oeaxT'--! 


l*^'<Aw^riftnMTMa*iifiw)a*»*fc*«*»si^ 


■-<fir-f^V^'-'-^^'-''-' 


''fltK'A\>  ./  i,^  .■!  . 


,^■7^7^^^!     Ill;  -  ■  -  I 


^  I 


,/ 


/  / 


/ 


/ 


y^ 


.^ 


0^ 


'K^dJL 


IT  mi.     KOTSTTiS  iRY 


O    F 


B    T 


(SMz^aililS  ©2CSEEM 


L  0  N  D  0  N  : 
CHAPMAN    &  H  ALL,  193  ,  PI  CCADI  LLY. 


THE  MYSTEEY 


OP 


EDWIN    DEOOD. 


BY 


CHAELES    DICKENS. 


WITH   TWELVE    ILLUSTRATIONS    BY  S.   L.  FILDES, 

AND    A    PORTRAIT. 


LONDON: 
CHAPMAN  AND   HALL,   193   PICCADILLY. 

1870. 

[  The  right  of  Translation  is  reserved.'^ 


LONDOS:   TRIKTED  UY   WILMAM  Cl.OWia  AKD  SOXS,  STAJirOHD  STREET 

A^P   UHAIUNG    CKOSS. 


All  that  was  left  in  mamiscript  of  Edwin  Drood  is  contained  in  the 
Number  now  puhlislied — the  sixth.  Its  last  entire  page  Imd  not  been 
written  two  hours  when  tJie  event  occurred  which  one  very  touching  passage 
in  it  (grave  and  sad  but  also  cheerful  and  reassuring)  might  seem  almost 
to  have  anticipated.  The  only  notes  in  reference  to  the  story  that  have 
since  been  found  concern  that  portion  of  it  exclusively,  which  is  treated  in 
the  earlier  Numbers.  Beyond  the  clues  therein  afforded  to  its  conduct  or 
catastrophe,  nothing  whatever  remains;  and  it  is  believed  that  what  the 
author  would  himself  have  most  desired  is  done,  in  placing  before  the 
reader  without  further  note  or  suggestion  the  fragment  of  The  Mystery 
OF  Edwin  Drood. 

12th  August,  1870. 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  I. 
The  Dawn ,       .        i 


CHAPTER  II. 
A  Dean,  and  a  Chapter  also    .......,,       3 

CHAPTER  m. 
The  Nuns'  House 12 

CHAPTER  IV. 
Mr.  Sapsea 21 

CHAPTER  V, 
Mr.  Durdles  and  Friend 28 

CHAPTER  YI. 
Philanthropy  in  Minor  Canon  Corner 33 

CHAPTER  VII. 
More  Confidences  than  one 40 

CHAPTER  VEIL 
Daggers  drawn 47 


VI  CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

PAGE 

Birds  in  the  Bush 54 


CHAPTER  X. 
Smoothing  the  Way 65 

CHAPTER  XI. 
A  Picture  and  a  Ring ,75 

CHAPTER  XII. 
A  Night  with  Duedles ,        .       .      86 

CHAPTER  XIII. 
Both  at  theie  Best 97 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

When  shall  these  three  meet  again?     .        .        ,        .       «       .        .104 

CHAPTER  XV. 
Impeached *        .    114 

CHAPTER  XVI. 
Devoted 121 

CHAPTER  XVII. 
Philanthropy,  Professional  and  Unprofessional 129 

CHAPTER  XVIII. 
A  Settler  in  Cloisterham 140 

CHAPTER  XIX. 
Shadow  on  the  Sun-dial 147 


CONTENTS.  yil 

CHAPTER  XX. 

PACK 

A  Flight «...    153 

» 

CHAPTER  XXJ. 
A  Recogxition 161 

CHAPTER  XXII. 
A  Gritty  state  of  things  comes  on  ...,,.,        ,    iGo 

CHAPTER  XXin. 
The  Dawn  again ,        ,    178 


ILLUSTRATIONS, 

Portrait. 
Vignette  Title  Page. 


PAGE 

In  the  Court To  fac3  1 

Under  the  Trees 20 

At  the  Pla.no 44 

On  Dangerous  Ground 50 

Mr.  Crisparkle  is  Overpaid ,        .  72 

DuRDLEs  Cautions  Mr.  Sapsea  against  Boasting 88 

"  Good-bye,  Rosebud,  darling  !"          .        .        » 98 

Mr.  Grewgious  has  his  Suspicions 120 

Jasper  s  Sacrifices 149 

Mr.  Grewgious  experiences  a  New  Sensation.        .  ^     .       .        .        .157 

Up  the  Eiver       .....'••                ...  173 

Sleeping  it  Off 183 


H 
O 

u 

w 
K 
H 


THE    MYSTEEY 


OF 


EDWIN    DEOOD. 


CHAPTEE  I. 

THE   DAWN. 

An  ancient  English  Cathedral  Tower  ?  How  can  the  ancient  English 
Cathedral  tower  be  here !  The  well-known  massive  grey  square 
tower  of  its  old  Cathedral  ?  How  can  that  be  here  I  There  is  no 
spike  of  rusty  iron  in  the  air,  between  the  eye  and  it,  from  any 
point  of  the  real  prospect.  What  is  the  spike  that  intervenes,  and 
who  has  set  it  up  ?  Maybe,  it  is  set  up  by  the  Sultan's  orders  for  the 
impaling  of  a  horde  of  Turkish  robbers,  one  by  one.  It  is  so,  for 
cymbals  clash,  and  the  Sultan  goes  by  to  his  j^alace  in  long  jn-o- 
cession.  Ten  thousand  scimitars  flash  in  the  sunlight,  and  thrico 
ten  thousand  dancing-girls  strew  flowers.  Then,  follow  white 
elephants  caparisoned  in  countless  gorgeous  colors,  and  infinite  in 
number  and  attendants.  Still,  the  Cathedral  Tower  rises  in  the 
background,  where  it  cannot  be,  and  still  no  writhing  figure  is  on 
the  grim  spike.  .  Stay !  Is  the  spike  so  low  a  thing  as  the  rusty 
spike  on  the  top  of  a  post  of  an  old  bedstead  that  has  tumbled  all 
awry  ?  Some  vague  period  of  drowsy  laughter  must  be  devoted  to 
the  consideration  of  this  possibility. 

Shaking  from  head  to  foot,  the  man  whose  scattered  consciousness 
has  thus  fantasticall}^  pieced  itself  together,  at  length  rises,  supports 
his  trembling  frame  upon  his  arms,  and  looks  around.  He  is  in  the 
meanest  and  closest  of  small  rooms.  Through  the  ragged  window- 
curtain,  the  light  of  early  day  steals  in  from  a  miserable  court.  He 
lies,  dressed,  across  a  large  unseemly  bed,  upon  a  bedstead  that  has 
indeed  given  way  under  the  weight  upon  it.  Lying,  also  dressed 
and  also  across  the  bed,  not  longwise,  are  a  Chinaman,  a  Lascar,  and 
a  haggard  woman.  The  two  first  are  in  a  sleep  or  stupor ;  the  last 
is  blowing  at  a  kind  of  pipe,  to  kindle  it.  And  as  she  blows,  and 
shading  it  with  her  lean  hand,  concentrates  its  red  sj)ark  of  light, 
it  serves  in  the  dim  morning  as  a  lamp  to  show  him  what  he  sees 
of  her. 

B 


2  THE   MYSTERY  OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

"  Another  ?"  says  tliis  woman,  in  a  quemlons,  rattling  whisper. 
'*  Have  another  ?" 

He  looks  about  him,  with  his  hand  to  his  forehead. 

"  Ye've  smoked  as  many  as  five  since  ye  come  in  at  midnight,"  the 
woman  goes  on,  as  she  chronically  complains.  "  Poor  me,  poor  me, 
my  head  is  so  bad  \  Them  two  come  in  after  ye.  Ah,  poor  me, 
the  business  is  slack,  is  slack !  Few  Chinamen  about  the  Docks, 
and  fewer  Lascars,  and  no  ships  coming  in,  these  say!  Here's 
another  ready  for  ye,  deary.  Ye'll  remember  like  a  good  soul, 
won't  ye,  that  the  market  price  is  dreffle  high  just  now  ?  More 
nor  three  shillings  and  sixpence  for  a  thimbleful !  And  ye'll 
remember  that  nobody  but  me  (and  Jack  Chinaman  t'other  side  the 
court;  but  he  can't  do  it  as  well  as  me)  has  the  true  secret  of 
mixing  it  ?     Ye'll  pay  up  according,  deary,  won't  ye  ?" 

She  blows  at  the  pipe  as  she  speaks,  and,  occasionally  bubbling 
at  it,  inhales  much  of  its  contents. 

"0  me,  0  me,  my  lungs  is  weak,  my  lungs  is  bad!  It's 
nearly  ready  for  ye,  deary.  Ah  poor  me,  poor  me,  my  poor  hand 
shakes  like  to  drop  off!  I  see  ye  coming-to,  and  I  ses  to  my  poor 
self,  '  I'll  have  another  ready  for  him,  and  he'll  bear  in  mind  the 
market  price  of  opium,  and  pay  according.'  0  my  poor  head !  I 
makes  my  pipes  of  old  penny  ink-bottles,  ye  see,  deary — this  is  one 
— and  1  fits  in  a  mouthpiece,  this  way,  and  I  takes  my  mixter  out 
of  this  thimble  with  this  little  horn  spoon ;  and  so  I  fills,  deary. 
Ah,  my  poor  nerves  !  I  got  Heavens-hard  drunk  for  sixteen  year 
afore  I  took  to  this  :  but  this,  don't  hurt  me,  not  to  speak  of.  And 
it  takes  away  the  hunger  as  well  as  wittles,  deary." 

She  hands  him  the  nearly-emptied  pipe,  and  sinks  back,  turning 
over  on  her  face. 

He  rises  unsteadily  from  the  bed,  lays  the  pipe  upon  the  hearth- 
stone, draws  back  the  ragged  curtain,  and  looks  with  repugnance 
at  his  three  companions.  He  notices  that  the  woman  has  opium- 
smoked  herself  into  a  strange  likeness  of  the  Chinaman.  His  form 
of  cheek,  eye,  and  temple,  and  his  color,  are  repeated  in  her.  Said 
Chinaman  convulsively  wrestles  with  one  of  his  many  Gods,  or 
Devils,  perhaps,  and  snarls  horribly.  The  Lascar  laughs  and 
dribbles  at  the  mouth.     The  hostess  is  still. 

"  What  visions  can  she  have  ?"  the  waking  man  muses,  as  he 
turns  her  face  towards  him,  and  stands  looking  down  at  it. 
"  Visions  of  many  butchers'  shops,  and  public-houses,  and  much 
credit  ?  Of  an  increase  of  hideous  customers,  and  this  horrible  bed- 
stead set  upright  again,  and  this  horrible  court  swept  clean  ?  What 
can  she  rise  to,  under  any  quantity  of  opium,  higher  than  that ! — 
Eh?" 

He  bends  down  his  ear,  to  listen  to  her  mutterings. 

"  Unintelligible !" 

As  he  watches  the  spasmodic  shoots  and  darts  that  break  out  of 
her  face  and  limbs,  like  fitful  lightning  out  of  a  dark  sky,  some 
contagion  in  them  seizes  upon  him :  insomuch  that  he  has  to 
withdraw  himself  to  a  lean  arm-chair  by  the  hearth — placed 
there,  perhaps,  for  such  emergencies — and  to  sit  in  it,  holding 
tight,  until  he  has  got  the  better  of  this  unclean  spirit  of  imitation. 


THE   DAWN.  3 


Tlien  lie  comes  back,  pounces  on  the  Chinaman,  and,  seizing  liim 
with  both  hands  by  the  throat,  turns  him  violently  on  the  bed. 
The  Chinaman  clutches  the  aggressive  hands,  resists,  gasps,  and 
.protests. 

"  What  do  you  say  ?" 

A  watchful  pause. 

"Unintelligible!" 

Slowly  loosening  his  grasp  as  he  listens  to  the  incoherent  jargon 
with  an  attentive  frown,  he  turns  to  the  Lascar  and  fairly  drags 
him  forth  upon  the  floor.  As  he  falls,  the  Lascar  starts  into  a  half- 
risen  attitude,  glares  with  his  eyes,  lashes  about  him  fiercely  with 
his  arms,  and  draws  a  phantom  knife.  It  then  becomes  apparent 
that  the  woman  has  taken  possession  of  his  knife,  for  safety's 
«ake ;  for,  she  too  starting  up,  and  restraining  and  expostulating 
with  him,  the  knife  is  visible  in  her  dress,  not  in  his,  when  they 
drowsil}^  drop  back,  side  by  side. 

There  has  been  chattering  and  clattering  enough  between  them, 
but  to  no  purpose.  When  any  distinct  word  has  been  flung  into 
the  air,  it  has  had  no  sense  or  sequence.  Wherefore  "  unintel- 
ligible !"  is  again  the  comment  of  the  Avatcher,  made  with  some 
reassured  nodding  of  his  head,  and  a  gloomy  smile.  He  then  lays 
certain  silver  money  on  the  table,  finds  his  hat,  gropes  his  way 
down  the  broken  stairs,  gives  a  good  morning  to  some  rat-ridden 
doorkeeper,  in  bed  in  a  black  hutch  beneath  the  stairs,  and  passes 
out. 

That  same  afternoon,  the  massive  grey  square  tower  of  an  old 
Cathedral  rises  before  the  sight  of  a  jaded  traveller.  The  bells  are 
going  for  daily  vesper  service,  and  he  must  needs  attend  it,  one  would 
say,  from  his  haste  to  reach  the  open  cathedral  door.  The  choir  are 
getting  on  their  sullied  white  robes,  in  a  hurry,  when  he  arrives 
among  them,  gets  on  his  own  robe,  and  falls  into  the  procession 
filing  in  to  service.  Then,  the  Sacristan  locks  the  iron-barred  gates 
that  divide  the  sanctuary  from  the  chancel,  and  all  of  the  proces- 
sion having  scuttled  into  their  places,  hide  their  faces ;  and  then 

the  intoned  words,  "When  the  Wicked  Man "  rise  among 

.groins  of  arches  and  beams  of  roof,  awakening  muttered  thunder. 


CHAPTEE  IL 

A  DEAN,   AND   A   CHAPTER   ALSO. 


Whosoever  has  observed  that  sedate  and  clerical  bird,  the  rook, 
may  perhaps  have  noticed  that  when  he  wings  his  way  home- 
ward towards  nightfall,  in  a  sedate  and  clerical  company,  two 
rooks  will  suddenly  detach  themselves  from  the  rest,  will  retrace 
their  flight  for  some  distance,  and  will  there  poise  and  linger  ; 
conveying  to  mere  men  the  fancy  that  it  is  of  some  occult  im- 
portance to  the  body  politic,  that  this  artful  couple  should  pretend 
to  have  renounced  connection  with  it. 

B  2 


4  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DEOOD.  , 

Similarly,  service  being  over  in  the  old  cathedral  with  the  square- 
tower,  and  the  choir  scuffling  out  again,  and  divers  venerable 
persons  of  rook-like  aspect  dispersing,  two  of  these  latter  retrace 
their  steps,  and  walk  together  in  the  echoing  Close. 

Not  only  is  the  day  waning,  but  the  year.  The  low  sun  is  fiery 
and  yet  cold  behind  the  monastery  ruin,  and  the  Virginia  creeper 
on  the  cathedral  wall  has  showered  halfits  deep-red  leaves  down  on 
the  pavement.  There  has  been  rain  this  afternoon,  and  a  wintry 
shudder  goes  among  the  little  pools  on  the  cracked  uneven  flag- 
stones, and  through  the  giant  elm  trees  as  they  shed  a  gust  of  tears. 
Their  fallen  leaves  lie  strewn  thickly  about.  Some  of  these  leaves, 
in  a  timid  rush,  seek  sanctuary  within  the  low  arched  cathedral  door ; 
but  two  men  coming  out,  resist  them,  and  cast  them  forth  again 
with  their  feet ;  this  done,  one  of  the  two  locks  the  door  with  a 
goodly  key,  and  the  other  flits  away  with  a  folio  music  book. 

"  Mr.  Jasper  was  that,  Tope?" 

"  Yes,  Mr.  Dean." 

"  He  has  stayed  late." 

"  Yes,  Mr.  Dean.  I  have  stayed  for  him,  your  Keverence.  He- 
has  been  took  a  little  poorly." 

"  Say  '  taken,'   Tojoe — to  the  Dean,"    The  younger  rook  inter- 
poses in  a  low  tone  with  this  touch  of  correction,  as  who  should  say  : 
"  You  may  offer  bad  grammar  to  the  laity,  or  the  humbler  clergy 
not  to  the  Dean." 

Mr.  Tope,  Chief  Verger  and  Showman,  and  accustomed  to  be  high 
with  excursion  parties,  declines  with  a  silent  loftiness  to  perceive 
that  any  suggestion  has  been  tendered  to  him. 

"  And  when  and  how  has  Mr.  Jasper  been  taken — for,  as  Mr. 
Cri  sparkle  has  remarked,  it  is  better  to  say  taken — taken — " 
repeats  the  Dean  ;  "  when  and  how  has  Mr.  Jasper  been  Taken " 

"  Taken,  sir,"  Tope  deferentially  murmurs. 

" Poorly,  Tope?" 

"  Why,  sir,  Mr.  Jasper  was  that  breathed " 

"  I  wouldn't  say  '  That  breathed,'  Tope,"  Mr.  Crisparkle  inter- 
poses, with  the  same  touch  as  before.  "Not  English — to  the 
Dean." 

"Breathed  to  that  extent,"  the  Dean  (not  unflattered  by  this 
indirect  homage),  condescendingly  remarks,  "  would  be  preferable." 

"  Mr.  Jasper's  breathing  was  so  remarkably  short ;"  thus 
discreetly  does  Mr.  Tope  work  his  way  round  the  sunken  rock, 
"  when  he  came  in,  that  it  distressed  him  mightily  to  get  his  notes 
out :  which  was  perhaps  the  cause  of  his  having  a  kind  of  fit  on 
him  after  a  little.  His  memory  grew  Dazed."  Mr.  Tope,  with 
his  eyes  on  the  Reverend  Mr.  Crisparkle,  shoots  this  word  out,  as. 
defying  him  to  improve  upon  it :  "  and  a  dimness  and  giddiness 
crept  over  him  as  strange  as  ever  I  saw  :  though  he  didn't  seem 
to  mind  it  particularly,  himself.  However,  a  little  time  and  a  little 
v/ater  brought  him  out  of  his  Daze."  Mr.  Tope  repeats  the  word 
and  its  emphasis,  with  the  air  of  saying :  "  As  I  have  made  a 
success,  I'll  make  it  again." 

"  And  Mr.  Jasper  has  gone  home  quite  himself,  has  he  ?"  asked: 
the  Dean. 


A   DEAN,   AND   A   CHAPTER   ALSO. 


(( 


Yonr  Eeverence,  he  lias  gone  home  quite  himself.  And  I'm 
^lad  to  see  he's  Jiaving  his  lire  kindled  up,  for  it's  chilly  after 
the  wet,  and  the  Cathedral  had  both  a  damp  feel  and  a  damp 
touch  this  afternoon,  and  he  was  very  shivery." 

They  all  three  look  towards  an  old  stone  gatehouse  crossing  the 
Close,  with  an  arched  thoroughfare  passing  beneath  it.  Through 
its  latticed  window,  a  fire  shines  out  upon  the  fast-darkening 
Bcene,  involving  in  shadow  the  pendent  masses  of  ivy  and  creeper 
•covering  the  building's  front.  As  the  deep  Cathedral-bell  strikes 
the  hour,  a  ripple  of  wind  goes  through  these  at  their  distance,  like 
.■a  ripple  of  the  solemn  sound  that  hums  through  tomb  and  tower, 
broken  niche  and  defaced  statue,  in  the  pile  close  at  hand. 

"  Is  Mr.  Jasper's  nephew  with  him  ?"  the  Dean  asks. 

"  No,  sir,"  replies  the  Yerger,  "  but  expected.  There's  his  own 
solitary  shadow  betwixt  his  two  windows — the  one  looking  this 
way,  and  the  one  looking  down  into  the  High  Street — drawing 
his  own  curtains  now." 

"  Well,  well,"  says  the  Dean,  with  a  sprightly  air  of  breaking 
wp  the  little  conference,  "  I  hope  Mr.  Jasper's  heart  may  not  be 
too  much  set  upon  his  nephew.  Our  affections,  however  laudable, 
in  this  transitory  world,  should  never  master  us  ;  we  should  guide 
them,  guide  them.  I  find  I  am  not  disagreeably  reminded  of  my 
(dinner,  by  hearing  my  dinner-bell.  Perhaps  Mr.  Crisparkle  you 
will,  before  going  home,  look  in  on  Jasper  ?" 

"  Certainly,  Mr.  Dean.  And  tell  him  that  jou  had  the  kindness 
to  desire  to  know  how  he  was  ?" 

"  Ay  ;  do  so,  do  so.  Certainly.  Wished  to  know  how  he  was. 
By  all  means.     Wished  to  know  how  he  was." 

With  a  pleasant  air  of  patronage,  the  Dean  as  nearly  cocks  his 
-quaint  hat  as  a  Dean  in  good  spirits  may,  and  directs  his  comely 
gaiters  towards  the  ruddy  dining-room  of  the  snug  old  red-brick 
house  where  he  is  at  present  "  in  residence  "  with  Mrs.  Dean  and 
Miss  Dean. 

Mr.  Crisparkle,  Minor  Canon,  fair  and  rosy,  and  perpetually 
pitching  himself  head-foremost  into  all  the  deep  running  water  in 
the  surrounding  country ;  Mr.  Crisparkle,  Minor  Canon,  earl}' 
riser,  musical,  classical,  cheerful,  kind,  good-natured,  social,  con- 
tented, and  boy-like  ;  Mr.  Crisparkle,  Minor  Canon  and  good  man, 
lately  "  Coach  "  upon  the  chief  Pagan  high  roads,  but  since  pro- 
moted by  a  patron  (grateful  for  a  well-taught  son)  to  his  present 
Christian  beat ;  betakes  himself  to  the  gate  house,  on  his  way 
home  to  his  earl}^  tea. 

"  Sorry  to  hear  from  Tope  that  you  have  not  been  well,  Jasper." 

"  Oh,  it  was  nothing,  nothing !" 

"  You  look  a  little  worn," 

"  Do  I  ?  Oh,  I  don't  think  so.  What  is  better,  I  don't  feel  so. 
Tope  has  made  too  much  of  it  I  suspect.  It's  his  trade  to  make 
the  most  of  everything  apjDertaining  to  the  Cathedral,  you  know." 

"  I  may  tell  the  Dean — I  call  expressly  from  the  Dean — that  you 
tire  all  right  again  ?" 

The  reply,  with  a  slight  smile,  is :  "  Certainly ;  with  my 
respects  and  thanks  to  the  Dean." 


6  THE  MYSTERY  OP  EDWIN  DEOOD. 

"  I'm  glad  to  hear  that  yon  expect  young  Drood.'* 

"  I  expect  the  dear  fellow  every  moment." 

"  Ah  !     He  will  do  you  more  good  than  a  doctor,  Jasper." 

"  More  good  than  a  dozen  doctors.  For  I  love  him  dearly,  and 
I  don't  love  doctors,  or  doctors'  stuff." 

Mr.  Jasper  is  a  dark  man  of  some  six-and-twenty,  with  thick, 
lustrous,  well-arranged  black  hair  and  whisker.  He  looks  older 
than  he  is,  as  dark  men  often  do.  His  voice  is  deep  and  good,  his 
face  and  figure  are  good,  his  manner  is  a  little  sombre.  His  room 
is  a  little  sombre,  and  may  have  had  its  influence  in  forming  his 
manner.  It  is  mostly  in  shadow.  Even  when  the  sun  shines 
brilliantly,  it  seldom  touches  the  grand  piano  in  the  recess,  or  the 
folio  music-books  on  the  stand,  or  the  bookshelves  on  the  wall,  or 
the  unfinished  picture  of  a  blooming  schoolgirl  hanging  over  the 
chimneypiece ;  her  flowing  brown  hair  tied  with  a  blue  riband, 
and  her  beauty  remarkable  for  a  quite  childish,  almost  babyish, 
touch  of  saucy  discontent,  comically  conscious  of  itself.  (There  is 
not  the  least  artistic  merit  in  this  picture,  which  is  a  mere  daub ; 
but  it  is  clear  that  the  painter  has  made  it  humorously — one 
might  almost  say,  revengefully — like  the  original.) 

"  We  shall  miss  you,  Jasper,  at  the  '  Alternate  Musical  Wednes- 
days '  to-night ;  but  no  doubt  you  are  best  at  home.  Good-night. 
God  bless  you !  '  Tell  me,  shep-herds  te-e-ell  me  ;  tell  me-e-e,  have 
you  seen  (have  you  seen,  have  }'ou  seen,  have  you  seen)  my-y-y 
Elo-o-ora-a  pass  this  way !' "  Melodiously  good  Minor  Canon 
the  Eeverend  Septimus  Crisparkle  thus  delivers  himself,  in  musical 
rhythm,  as  he  withdraws  his  amiable  face  from  the  doorway  and 
conveys  it  down  stairs. 

Sounds  of  recognition  and  greeting  pass  between  the  Eeverend 
Septimus  and  somebody  else,  at  the  stair-foot.  Mr.  Jasper  listens, 
starts  from  his  chair,  and  catches  a  young  fellow  in  his  arms, 
exclaiming : 

"  My  dear  Edwin !" 

"  My  dear  Jack  !     So  glad  to  see  jou !" 

"  Get  off  your  greatcoat,  bright  boy,  and  sit  down  here  in  your 
own  corner.  Your  feet  are  not  wet?  Pull  your  boots  off.  Do 
pull  your  boots  off." 

"  My  dear  Jack,  I  am  as  dry  as  a  bone.  Don't  moddley-coddley, 
there's  a  good  fellow.  I  like  anything  better  than  being  moddley- 
coddleyed." 

With  the  check  U2:)on  him  of  being  unsympathetically  restrained 
in  a  genial  outburst  of  enthusiasm,  Mr.  Jasj)er  stands  still,  and  looks 
on  intently  at  the  young  fellow,  divesting  himself  of  his  outer  coat, 
hat,  gloves,  and  so  forth.  Once  for  all,  a  look  of  intentness  and  in- 
tensity— a  look  of  hungry,  exacting,  watchful,  and  yet  devoted 
affection — is  always,  now  and  ever  afterwards,  on  the  Jasjier  face 
whenever  the  Jasper  face  is  addressed  in  this  direction.  And 
whenever  it  is  so  addressed,  it  is  never,  on  this  occasion  or  on  any 
other,  dividedly  addressed  ;  it  is  always  concentrated. 

"  Now  I  am  right,  and  now  I'll  take  my  corner,  Jack.  Any 
dinner,  Jack?" 

Mr.  Jasper  opens  a  door  at  the  upper  end  of  the  room,  and 


A   DEAN,    AND   A    CHAPTER   ALSO.  7 

discloses  a  small  inner  room   pleasantly  lighted   and   prepared, 
wherein  a  comely  dame  is  in  the  act  of  setting  dishes  on  table. 

"  What  a  jolly  old  Jack  it  is !"  cries  the  young  fellow,  with  a 
clap  of  his  hands.  "  Look  here,  Jack ;  tell  me ;  whose  birthday 
is  it  ?" 

*'  Not  yours,  I  know,"  Mr.  Jasper  answers,  pausing  to  con- 
sider. 

"  Not  mine,  you  know  ?     No  ;  not  mine,  I  know  !     Pussy's  !" 

Fixed  as  the  look  the  3"0ung  fellow  meets,  is,  there  is  yet  in  it 
som,e  strange  power  of  suddenly  including  the  sketch  over  the 
chimneypiece. 

"  Pussy's,  Jack !  AYe  must  drink  Many  happy  returns  to  her. 
Come,  uncle ;  take  your  dutiful  and  sharp-set  nephew  in  to  dinner." 

As  the  boy  (for  he  is  little  more)  lays  a  hand  on  Jasper's 
shoulder,  JasjDer  cordially  and  gaily  lays  a  hand  on  his  shoulder, 
and  so  Marseillaise-wise  they  go  in  to  dinner. 

"  And  Lord !  Here's  Mrs.  Tope  !"  cries  the  boy.  "  Lovelier 
than  ever!" 

"  Never  you  mind  me,  Master  Edwin,"  retorts  the  Verger's  wife ; 
*'  I  can  take  care  of  myself." 

"You  can't.  You're  much  too  handsome.  Give  me  a  kiss, 
because  it's  Pussy's  birthday." 

"  I'd  Pussy  you,  young  man,  if  I  was  Pussy,  as  you  call  her," 
Mrs.  To]3e  blushingly  retorts,  after  being  saluted.  "  Your  uncle's 
too  much  wrapt  up  in  you,  that's  where  it  is.  He  makes  so 
much  of  you,  that  it's  my  opinion  you  think  you've  only  to  call 
your  Pussys  by  the  dozen,  to  make  'em  come." 

"  You  forget,  Mrs.  Tope,"  Mr.  Jasper  interposes,  taking  his  place 
at  table  with  a  genial  smile,  "  and  so  do  you,  Ned,  that  Uncle  and 
Nephew  are  words  prohibited  here  by  common  consent  and  express 
agreement.  For  what  we  are  going  to  receive  His  holy  name  be 
praised !" 

"  Done  like  the  Dean !  Witness,  Edwin  Drood !  Please  to 
carve.  Jack,  for  I  can't," 

This  sally  ushers  in  the  dinner.  Little  to  the  present  purj)ose, 
or  to  any  purpose,  is  said,  while  it  is  in  course  of  being  disposed  of. 
At  length  the  cloth  is  drawn,  and  a  dish  of  walnuts  and  a  decanter 
of  rich-coloured  sherry  are  placed  upon  the  table. 

"  I  say  !  Tell  me,  Jack,"  the  young  fellow  then  flows  on  :  "  do 
you  really  and  truly  feel  as  if  the  mention  of  our  relationship 
divided  us  at  all  ?     I  don't." 

"  Uncles  as  a  rule,  Ned,  are  so  much  older  than  their  nephews," 
is  the  reply,  "  that  I  have  that  feeling  instinctively." 

"  As  a  rule  ?  Ah,  may -be  1  But  what  is  a  difference  in  age  of 
half  a  dozen  years  or  so  ?  And  some  uncles,  in  large  families, 
are  even  younger  ih-^.n  their  nephews.  By  George,  I  wish  it  was 
the  case  with  us !" 

"  Whv  ?" 

"  Because  if  it  was,  I'd  take  the  lead  Avith  you.  Jack,  and  be  as 
wise  as  Begone  dull  care  that  turned  a  young  man  grey,  and  be- 
gone dull  care  that  turned  an  old  man  to  clay. — Halloa,  Jack .' 
Don't  drink." 


8  THE   MYSTERY   OP   EDWIN   DROOD. 

"Why  not?" 

"  Asks  why  not,  on  Pussy's  birthday,  and  no  Happy  Eeturns 
proposed!  Pussy,  Jack,  and  many  of  'em!  Happy  returns,  I 
mean." 

Laying  an  affectionate  and  laughing  touch  an  the  boy's  extended 
hand,  as  if  it  were  at  once  his  giddy  head  and  his  light  heart,  Mr. 
Jasper  drinks  the  toast  in  silence. 

"  Hip,  hip,  hip,  and  nine  times  nine,  and  one  to  finish  with,  and 
all  that,  understood.  Hooray,  hooray,  hooray !  And  now.  Jack, 
let's  have  a  little  talk  about  Pussy.  Two  pairs  of  nut-crackers  ? 
Pass  me  one,  and  take  the  other."  Crack.  "  How's  Pussy  getting 
on.  Jack?" 

"  With  her  music?     Fairly." 

"  What  a  dreadfully  conscientious  fellow  you  are,  Jack.  But  I 
know,  Lord  bless  you  !     Liattentive,  isn't  she  ?" 

"  She  can  learn  anything,  if  she  will." 

"  If  she  will  ?     Egad  that's  it.     But  if  she  won't  ?" 

Crack.     On  Mr.  Jasper's  part. 

"  How's  she  looking.  Jack  ?" 

Mr.  Jasper's  concentrated  face  again  includes  the  portrait  as  he 
returns  :  "  Very  like  your  sketch  indeed." 

"  I  am  a  little  proud  of  it,"  says  the  young  fellow,  glancing  up  at 
the  sketch  with  complacency,  and  then  shutting  one  eye,  and 
taking  a  corrected  prospect  of  it  over  a  level  bridge  of  nut-cracker 
in  the  air  :  "  Not  badly  hit  off  from  memory.  But  I  ought  to  have 
caught  that  expression  pretty  well,  for  1  have  seen  it  often 
enough." 

Crack.     On  Edwin  Drood's  ^^art. 

Crack.     On  Mr.  Jasper's  part. 

"  In  point  of  fact,"  the  former  resumes,  after  some  silent  dipping 
among  his  fragments  of  walnut  with  an  air  of  pique,  "  I  see  it 
whenever  I  go  to  see  Pussy.  If  I  don't  find  it  on  her  face,  I  leave 
it  there. — You  know  I  do.  Miss  Scornful  Pert.  Booh!"  With  a 
twirl  of  the  nut-crackers  at  the  portrait. 

Crack.     Crack.     Crack.     Slowly,  on  Mr.  Jasj^er's  part. 

Crack.     Sharply,  on  the  part  of  Edwin  Drood. 

Silence  on  both  sides. 

"  Have  you  lost  your  tongue.  Jack?" 

"  Have  you  found  yours,  Ned  ?" 

"  No,  but  really ; — isn't  it,  you  know,  after  all  ?" 

Mr.  Jasper  lifts  his  dark  eyebrows  inquiringly. 

"  Isn't  it  unsatisfactory  to  be  cut  off  from  choice  in  such  a 
matter  ?  There,  Jack  !  I  tell  you !  If  I  could  choose,  I  would 
choose  Pussy  from  all  the  pretty  girls  in  the  world." 

"  But  you  have  not  got  to  choose." 

"  That's  what  I  complain  of.  My  dead  and  gone  father  and 
Pussy's  dead  and  gone  father  must  needs  marry  us  together  by 
anticijiation.  Why  the — Devil,  I  was  going  to  say,  if  it  had  been 
respectful  to  their  memory — couldn't  they  leave  us  alone  ?" 

"  Tut,  tut,  dear  boy,"  Mr.  Ja-sper  remonstrates,  in  a  tone  of 
gentle  deprecation. 

"  Tut,  tut?     Yes,  Jack,  it's  all  very  well  for  yori.     Tou  can  take 


A   DEAN,    AND    A    CH.YPTER   ALSO.  9 


/ 


it  easily.  Tour  life  is  not  laid  dow]i  to  scale,  and  lined  and  dotted 
out  for  yoTi,  like  a  surveyor's  plan.  Tou  have  no  uncomfortable 
suspicion  that  you  are  forced  upon  anj'hody,  nor  has  anybody  an 
uncomfortable  suspicion  that  she  is  forced  upon  you,  or  that  you 
ure  forced  upon  her.  You  can  choose  for  yourself.  Life,  for  you,  is 
a,  plum  with  the  natural  bloom  on ;  it  hasn't  been  over-carefuUy 
wiped  off  for  7jou " 

"  Don't  stop,  dear  fellow.     Go  on." 

"  Can  I  anyhow  have  hurt  your  feelings.  Jack  ?" 

"  How  can  you  have  hurt  my  feelings  ?" 

"  Good  Heaven,  Jack,  you  look  frightfully  ill !  There's  a  strange 
film  come  over  your  eyes." 

Mr.  Jasper,  with  a  forced  smile,  stretches  out  his  right  hand,  as 
if  at  once  to  disarm  apprehension  and  gain  time  to  get  better. 
After  a  while  he  says  faintly  : 

"  I  have  been  taking  opium  for  a  pain — an  agony — that  some- 
times overcomes  me.  The  effects  of  the  medicine  steal  over  me 
like  a  blight  or  a  cloud,  and  pass.  You  see  them  in  the  act  of 
passing ;  they  will  be  gone  directl}".  Look  away  from  me.  They 
will  go  all  the  sooner." 

With  a  scared  face,  the  younger  man  complies,  by  casting  his 
eyes  downward  at  the  ashes  on  the  hearth.  Not  relaxing  his 
own  gaze  at  the  fire,  but  rather  strengthening  it  with  a  fierce, 
firm  grip  upon  his  elbow-chair,  the  elder  sits  for  a  few  moments 
ritrid,  and  then,  with  thick  drops  standing  on  his  forehead,  and  a 
sharp  catch  of  his  breath,  becomes  as  he  was  before.  On  his  so 
subsiding  in  his  chair,  his  nephew  gently  and  assiduously  tends 
him  while  he  quite  recovers.  When  Jasper  is  restored,  he  lays 
a  tender  hand  upon  his  nephew's  shoulder,  and,  in  a  tone  of  voice 
less  troubled  than  the  purport  of  his  words — indeed  with  some- 
thing of  raillery  or  banter  in  it — thus  addresses  him  : 

"  There  is  said  to  be  a  hidden  skeleton  in  every  house ;  but  you 
thought  there  was  none  in  mine,  dear  Ked." 

"  Upon  m}^  life.  Jack,  I  did  think  so.  However,  when  I  come 
to  consider  that  even  in  Pussy's  house — if  she  had  one — and  in 
mine — if  I  had  one " 

"  You  were  going  to  say  (but  that  I  interru]3ted  you  in  spite  of 
myself)  what  a  quiet  life  mine  is.  No  whirl  and  uproar  around 
me,  no  distracting  commerce  or  calculation,  no  risk,  no  change  of 
place,  mj'self  devoted  to  the  art  I  pursue,  my  business  my 
pleasure." 

"I  really  was  going  to  say  something  of  the  kind.  Jack;  but 
you  see,  you,  speaking  of  yourself,  almost  necessarily  leave  out 
m.uch  that  I  should  have  put  in.  For  instance  :  I  should  have  })\\t 
in  the  foreground,  your  being  so  much  respected  as  La}^  Precentor, 
or  Lay  Clerk,  or  whatever  you  call  it,  of  this  Cathedral ;  your 
enjoying  the  reputation  of  having  done  such  wonders  with  the 
choir ;  your  choosing  your  society,  and  holding  such  an  inde- 
pendent position  in  tnis  queer  old  place ;  your  gift  of  teaching 
(why,  even  Pussy,  who  don't  like  being  taught,  says  there  never 
was  such  a  Master  as  you  are  i)  and  your  connexion." 

"  Yes  ;  I  saw  what  vou  were  tending  to.     I  hate  it." 


10  thtj:  mysteky  of  edwin  drood. 

*'  Hate  it,  Jack?"     (Mucli  bewildered.) 

"  I  liate  it.  The  cramped  monotony  of  my  existence  grinds  me 
away  by  the  grain.     How  does  our  service  sound  to  you  ?" 

"  Beautiful !     Quite  celestial." 

"  It  often  sounds  to  me  quite  devilish.  I  am  so  weary  of  it 
The  echoes  of  my  own  voice  among  the  arches  seem  to  mock  me 
with  my  daily  drudging  round.  No  wretched  monk  who  droned 
his  life  away  in  that  gloomy  place,  before  me,  can  have  been  more 
tired  of  it  than  I  am.  He  could  take  for  relief  (and  did  take)  to 
carving  demons  out  of  the  stalls  and  seats  and  desks.  What  shall 
I  do  ?    Must  I  take  to  carving  them  out  of  my  heart  ?" 

"  I  thought  you  had  so  exactly  found  your  niche  in  life,  Jack," 
Edwin  Drood  returns,  astonished,  bending  forward  in  his  chair  to 
lay  a  sympathetic  hand  on  Jasper's  knee,  and  looking  at  him  with 
an  anxious  face. 

"  I  know  you  thought  so.     They  all  think  so." 

"  Well ;  I  suppose  they  do,"  says  Edwin,  meditating  aloud. 
*'  Pussy  thinks  so." 

"  When  did  she  tell  you  that?" 

"  The  last  time  I  was  here.  You  remember  when.  Three  months 
ago." 

"  How  did  she  phrase  it?' 

"  Oh !  She  only  said  that  she  had  become  your  pupil,  and  that 
you  were  made  for  your  vocation.'' 

The  younger  man  glances  at  the  portrait.  The  elder  sees  it  in 
him. 

"  Anyhow,  my  dear  Ned,"  Jasper  resumes,  as  he  shakes  his  head 
with  a  grave  cheerfulness  :  "I  must  subdue  myself  to  my  vocation  : 
which  is  much  tho  same  thing  outwardly.  It's  too  late  to  find 
another  now.     This  is  a  confidence  between  us." 

"  It  shall  be  sacredly  preserved,  Jack." 

"  I  have  reposed  it  in  you,  because " 

"  I  feel  it,  I  assure  you.  Because  we  are  fast  friends,  and  because 
you  love  and  trust  me,  as  I  love  and  trust  you.  Both  hands. 
Jack." 

As  each  stands  looking  into  the  other's  eyes,  and  as  the  uncle 
holds  the  nephew's  hands,  the  uncle  thus  proceeds  : 

"  You  know  now,  don't  you,  that  even  a  poor  monotonous 
chorister  and  grinder  of  music — in  his  niche — may  be  troubled 
with  some  stray  sort  of  ambition,  aspiration,  restlessness,  dissatis- 
faction, what  shall  we  call  it  ?" 

"  Yes,  dear  Jack." 

"  And  you  will  remember  ?" 

*'  My  dear  Jack,  I  only  ask  you,  am  I  likely  to  forget  what  you 
have  said  with  so  much  feeling  ?" 

"  Take  it  as  a  warning,  then." 

In  the  act  of  having  his  hands  released,  and  of  moving  a  step 
back,  Edwin  pauses  for  an  instant  to  consider  the  application  of 
these  last  words.     The  instant  over,  he  says,  sensibly  touched  : 

"  I  am  afraid  I  am  but  a  shallow,  surface  kind  of  fellow.  Jack, 
and  that  my  headpiece  is  none  of  the  best.  But  I  needn't  say  I 
am  young ;  and  perhaps  I  shall  not  grow  worse  as  1  grow  older. 


A   DEAN,    AND    A   CHAPTER   ALSO.  11 

At  all  events,  I  hope  I  have  sometliiiig  impressible  within  me, 
which  feels — deeply  feels — the  disinterestedness  of  your  painfully 
laying  your  inner  self  bare,  as  a  warning  to  me." 

Mr.  Jasper's  steadiness  of  face  and  figure  becomes  so  marvellous 
that  his  breathing  seems  to  have  stopped. 

"  I  couldn't  fail  to  notice.  Jack,  that  it  cost  you  a  great  effort, 
and  that  you  were  very  much  moved,  and  very  unlike  your  usual 
self.  Of  course  I  knew  that  you  were  extremely  fond  of  me,  but  I 
really  was  not  prepared  for  your,  as  I  may  say,  sacrificing  yourself 
to  me,  in  that  way." 

Mr.  Jasper,  becoming  a  breathing  man  again  without  the 
smallest  stage  of  transition  between  tlie  two  extreme  states,  lifts 
his  shoulders,  laughs,  and  waves  his  right  arm. 

"  No ;  don't  put  the  sentiment  away.  Jack ;  please  don't ;  for  I  am 
very  much  in  earnest.  I  have  no  doubt  that  that  unhealthy  state 
of  mind  which  you  have  so  powerfully  described  is  attended  with 
some  real  suffering,  and  is  hard  to  bear.  But  let  me  reassure  you. 
Jack,  as  to  the  chances  of  its  overcoming  Me.  I  don't  think  I 
am  in  the  way  of  it.  In  some  few  months  less  than  another  year, 
you  know,  I  shall  carry  Pussy  off  from  school  as  Mrs.  Edwin 
Drood.  I  shall  then  go  engineering  into  the  East,  and  Pussy  with 
me.  And  although  we  have  our  little  tifis  now,  arising  out  of  a 
certain  unavoidable  flatness  that  attends  our  love-making,  owing 
to  its  end  being  all  settled  beforehand,  still  I  have  no  doubt  of  our 
getting  on  capitally  then,  when  it's  done  and  can't  be  helped.  In 
tjhort,  Jack,  to  go  back  to  the  old  song  I  was  freely  quoting  at 
dinner  (and  who  knows  old  songs  better  than  you !),  my  wife  shall 
dance  and  I  will  sing,  so  merrily  pass  the  day.  Of  Pussy's 
being  beautiful  there  cannot  be  a  doubt; — and  when  you  are 
good  besides.  Little  Miss  Impudence,"  once  more  apostro]3hising 
the  portrait,  "  111  burn  your  comic  likeness  and  paint  your  music- 
master  another." 

Mr.  Jasper,  with  his  hand  to  his  chin,  and  with  an  expression  of 
musing  benevolence  on  his  face,  has  attentively  watched  every 
animated  look  and  gesture  attending  the  delivery  of  these  words. 
He  remains  in  that  attitude  after  they  are  spoken,  as  if  in  a  kind 
of  fascination  attendant  on  his  strong  interest  in  the  youthful 
sj^irit  that  he  loves  so  well.     Then,  he  says  with  a  quiet  smile  : 

"  You  won't  be  warned,  then  ?" 

*'  No,  Jack." 

"  You  can't  be  warned,  then  ?" 

"No,  Jack,  not  by  you.  Besides  that  I  don't  reallj'  consider 
myself  in  danger,  I  don't  like  your  putting  yourself  in  that 
position." 

"  Shall  we  go  and  walk  in  the  churchyard  ?" 

"By  all  means.  You  won't  mind  my  slipping  out  of  it  for  half 
a  moment  to  the  Nuns'  House,  and  lewving  a  parcel  there  ?  Only 
gloves  for  Pussy ;  as  many  pairs  of  gloves  as  she  is  years  old  to- 
day.    Pather  poetical.  Jack  ?" 

Mr.  Jasper,  still  in  the  same  attitude,  murmurs :  "  '  Nothing  half 
so  sweet  in  life,'  Ned  !" 

"  Here's  the  parcel  in  my  greatcoat  pocket.     They  must  be  pre- 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CAUFORNiA  UBRAKY 


12  THE   MYSTERY    OF     EDWIN    DROOD. 

rented  to-niglit,  or  the  poetry  is  gone.  It's  against  regulations  for 
me  to  call  at  night,  but  not  to  leave  a  packet.  I  am  ready, 
Jack !" 

Mr.  Jasper  dissolves  his  attitude,  and  they  go  out  together. 


CHAPTEE  III. 


THE   nuns'    house. 


For  sufficient  reasons  v^^hich  this  narrative  will  itself  unfold 
as  it  advances,  a  fictitious  name  must  be  bestowed  upon  the  old 
Cathedral  town.  Let  it  stand  in  these  pages  as  Cloisterham.  It 
was  once  possibly  known  to  the  Druids  by  another  name,  and 
€ertainly  to  the  Eomans  by  another,  and  to  the  Saxons  by  another, 
and  to  the  Normans  by  another ;  and  a  name  more  or  less  in  the 
course  of  many  centuries  can  be  of  little  moment  to  its  dusty 
chronicles. 

An  ancient  city,  Cloisterham,  and  no  meet  dwelling-place  for 
any  one  with  hankerings  after  the  noisy  world.  A  monotonous, 
silent  city,  deriving  an  earthy  flavor  throughout,  from  its  cathe- 
dral crypt,  and  so  abounding  in  vestiges  of  monastic  graves,  that 
the  Cloisterham  children  grow  small  salad  in  the  dust  of  abbots 
and  abbesses,  and  make  di-rt-pies  of  nuns  and  friars ;  while  every 
ploughman  in  its  outlying  fields  renders  to  once  puissant  Lord 
Treasurers,  Archbishops,  Bishops,  and  such-like,  the  attention 
which  the  Ogre  in  the  story-book  desired  to  render  to  his  un- 
bidden visitor,  and  grinds  their  bones  to  make  his  bread. 

A  drowsy  city,  Cloisterham,  whose  inhabitants  seem  to  suj)pose, 
with  an  inconsistency  more  strange  than  rare,  that  all  its  changes 
lie  behind  it,  and  that  there  are  no  more  to  come.  A  queer  moral 
to  derive  from  antiquity,  yet  older  than  any  traceable  antiquity. 
So  silent  are  the  streets  of  Cloisterham  (though  prone  to  echo  on 
the  smallest  provocation),  that  of  a  summer-day  the  sunblinds  of 
its  shops  scarce  dare  to  flap  in  the  south  wdnd ;  while  the  sun- 
browned  tramps  wdio  pass  along  and  stare,  quicken  their  limp  a 
little,  that  they  may  the  sooner  get  beyond  the  confines  of  its 
oppressive  respectabilit}^  This  is  a  feat  not  difficult  of  achieve- 
ment, seeing  that  the  streets  of  Cloisterham  city  are  little  more 
than  one  narrow  street  by  which  you  get  into  it  and  ge*t  out  of 
it :  the  rest  being  mostly  disappointing  yards  with  pumps  in  them 
and  no  thoroughfare — exception  made  of  the  Cathedral-close,  and 
a  paved  Quaker  settlement,  in  color  and  general  conformation  very 
like  a  Quakeress's  bonnet,  ud  in  a  shady  corner. 

In  a  word,  a  city  of  anotner  and  a  bj^gone  time  is  Cloisternam 
■with  its  hoarse  cathedral  bell,  its  hoarse  rooks  hovering  about  the 
Cathedral  tower,  its  hoarser  and  less  distinct  rooks  in  the  stalls  far 
beneath.  Fragments  of  old  wall,  saint's  chapel,  chapter-house, 
convent,  aiid  monastery,  have  got  incongruously  or  obstructively 
built  into  many  of  its  houses  and  gardens,  much  as  kindred  jumbled 
notions  have  become  inc^f'Dorated  into  man}"  of  its  citizen's  minds. 


THE   nuns'    house.  15 

All  things  in  it  are  of  the  past.  Even  its  single  pawnbroker 
takes  in  no  pledges,  nor  has  he  for  a  long  time,  but  offers  vainly 
an  nnredeemed  stock  for  sale,  of  which  the  costlier  articles  are 
dim  and  pale  old  watches  apparently  in  a  slow  perspiration, 
tarnished  sugar-tongs  with  ineffectual  legs,  and  odd  volumes  of 
dismal  books.  The  most  abundant  and  the  most  agreeable- 
evidences  of  progressing  life  in  Cloisterham,  are  the  evidences- 
of  vegetable  life  in  its  many  gardens;  even  its  drooping  and 
despondent  little  theatre  has  its  poor  strip  of  garden,  receiving 
the  foul  fiend,  when  he  ducks  from  its  stage  into  the  infernal 
regions,  among  scarlet  beans  or  oyster-shells,  according  to  the 
season  of  the  year. 

In  the  midst  of  Cloisterham  stands  the  Nuns'  House;  a  vene- 
rable brick  edifice  whose  present  appellation  is  doubtless  derived  . 
from  the  legend  of  its  conventual  uses.  On  the  trim  gate  enclos- 
ing its  old  courtyard,  is  a  resplendent  brass  plate  flashing  forth 
the  legend  :  "  Seminary  for  Young  Ladies.  Miss  Twinkleton." 
The  house-front  is  so  old  and  worn,  and  the  brass  plate  is  so 
shining  and  staring,  that  the  general  result  has  reminded  imagi- 
native strangers  of  a  battered  old  beau  with  a  large  modern  eye- 
glass stuck  in  his  blind  eye. 

Whether  the  nuns  of  yore,  being  of  a  submissive  rather  than  a 
stiff-necked  generation,  habitually  bent  their  contemplative  heads 
to  avoid  collision  with  the  beams  in  the  low  ceilings  of  the  many 
chambers  of  their  House;  whether  they  sat  in  its  long  low 
windows,  telling  their  beads  for  their  mortification  instead  of 
making  necklaces  of  them  for  their  adornment ;  whether  the}^ 
were  ever  walled  up  alive  in  odd  angles  and  jutting  gables  of  the 
building  for  having  some  ineradicable  leaven  of  busy  mother 
Nature  in  them  which  has  kept  the  fermenting  world  alive  ever 
since ;  these  may  be  matters  of  interest  to  its  haunting  ghosts  ('if 
any),  but  constitute  no  item  in  Miss  Twinkleton's  half-yearly 
•accounts.  They  are  neither  of  Miss  Twinkleton's  inclusive 
regulars,  nor  of  her  extras.  The  lady  who  undertakes  the  poetical 
department  of  the  establishment  at  so  much  (or  so  little)  a  quarter^ 
has  no  pieces  in  her  list  of  recitals  bearing  on  such  unprofitablo 
questions. 

As,  in  some  cases  of  drunkenness,  and  in  others  of  animal 
magnetism,  there  are  two  states  of  consciousness  which  never 
clash,  but  each  of  which  pursues  its  separate  course  as  though  it 
were  continuous  instead  of  broken  (thus  if  I  hide  my  watch 
when  I  am  drunk,  I  must  be  drunk  again  before  I  can  remember 
where),  so  Miss  Twinkleton  has  two  distinct  and  separate  phases, 
of  being.  Every  night,  the  moment  the  young  ladies  have 
retired  to  rest,  does  Miss  Twinkleton  smarten  up  her  curls  a 
little,  brighten  up  her  eyes  a  little,  and  become  a  sprightlier  Mis& 
Twinkleton  than  the  young  ladies  have  ever  seen.  Every  night, 
at  the  same  hour,  does  Miss  Twinkleton  resume  the  topics  of  the 
previous  night,  comprehending  the  tenderer  scandal  of  Cloister- 
ham, of  which  she  has  no  knowledge  whatever  by  day,  and 
references  to  a  certain  season  at  Tunbridge  Wells  (airily  called  by 
Miss  Twinkleton  in  this  state  of  her  existence  "  The  Wells  ")^ 


14  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

notably  tlie  season  wherein  a  certain  finished  gentleman  (compas- 
sionately called  by  Miss  Twinkleton  in  this  state  of  her  existence, 
"  Foolish  Mr.  Porters  ")  revealed  a  homage  of  the  heart,  whereof 
Miss  Twinkleton,  in  her  scholastic  state  of  existence,  is  as  ignorant 
a-s  a  granite  pillar.  Miss  Twinkleton's  companion  in  both  states  of 
existence,  and  equally  adaptable  to  either,  is  one  Mrs.  Tisher : 
a  deferential  '77idow  with  a  weak  back,  a  chronic  sigh,  and  a 
suppressed  voice,  who  looks  after  the  young  ladies'  wardrobes, 
and  leads  them  to  infer  that  she  has  seen  better  days.  Perhaps 
this  is  the  reason  why  it  is  an  article  of  faith  with  the  servants, 
nanded  down  from  race  to  race,  that  the  departed  Tisher  was  a 
hairdresser. 

The  pet  pupil  of  the  Nuns'  House  is  Miss  Eosa  Bud,  of  course 
called  Rosebud ;  wonderfully  pretty,  wonderfully  childish,  won- 
derfully whimsical.  An  awkward  interest  (awkward  because 
romantic)  attaches  to  Miss  Bud  in  the  minds  of  the  young  ladies, 
on  account  of  its  being  known  to  them  that  a  husband  has  been 
chosen  for  her  by  will  and  bequest,  and  that  her  guardian  is  bound 
down  to  bestow  her  on  that  husband  when  he  comes  of  age.  Miss 
Twinkleton,  in  her  seminarial  state  of  existence,  has  combated  the 
romantic  aspect  of  this  destiny  by  affecting  to  shake  her  head  over 
it  behind  Miss  Bud's  dimpled  shoulders,  and  to  brood  on  the  un- 
happy lot  of  Ihat  doomed  little  victim.  But  with  no  better  effect — 
possibly  some  unfelt  touch  of  foolish  Mr.  Porters  has  undermined 
the  endeavour — than  to  evoke  from  the  young  ladies  an  unanimous 
bedchamber  cry  of  "  Oh !  what  a  pretending  old  thing  Miss 
Twinkleton  is,  my  dear  !" 

The  Nuns'  House  is  never  in  such  a  state  of  flutter  as  when  this 
allotted  husband  calls  to  see  little  Eosebud.  (It  is  unanimously 
understood  by  the  young  ladies  that  he  is  lawfully  entitled  to  this 
privilege,  and  that  if  Miss  Twinkleton  disputed  it  she  would  be 
instantly  taken  up  and  transported.)  When  his  ring  at  the  gate 
bell  is  expected,  or  takes  place,  every  young  lady  who  can,  under 
any  pretence,  look  out  of  window,  looks  out  of  window :  while 
every  young  lady  who  is  "  practising,"  practises  out  of  time  ;  and 
the  French  class  becomes  so  demoralized  that  the  Mark  goes  round 
as  briskly  as  the  bottle  at  a  convivial  party  in  the  last  century. 

On  the  afternoon  of  the  day  next  after  the  dinner  of  two  at  the 
Gate  House,  the  bell  is  rung  with  the  usual  fluttering  results. 

''  Mr.  Edwin  Drood  to  see  Miss  Eosa." 

This  is  the  announcement  of  the  parlour-maid  in  chief.  Miss 
Twinkleton,  with  an  exemplary  air  of  melancholy  on  her,  turns  to 
the  sacrifice,  and  says :  "  You  may  go  down,  my  dear."  Miss  Bud 
goes  down,  followed  by  all  eyes. 

Mr.  Edwin  Drood  is  waiting  in  Miss  Twinkleton's  own  parlour : 
a  dainty  room,  with  nothing  more  directly  scholastic  in  it  than  a 
terrestrial  and  a  celestial  globe.  These  expressive  machines  iniply 
(to  parents  and  guardians)  that  even  Avhen  Miss  Twinkleton 
retires  into  the  bosom  of  privacy,  duty  may  at  any  moment  compel 
her  to  become  a  sort  of  Wandering  Jewess,  scouring  the  earth  and 
eoaring  through  the  skies  in  search  of  knowledge  for  her  pupils. 

The  last  new  maid,  who  has  never  seen  the  young  gentleman 


THE   nuns'   house.  15 

Miss  Eosa  is  engaged  to,  and  who  is  making  his  acquaintance 
between  the  hinges  of  the  open  door,  left  open  for  the  purpose, 
stumbles  guiltily  down  the  kitchen  stairs,  as  a  charming  littla 
apparition  with  its  face  concealed  by  a  little  silk  apron  thrown 
over  its  head,  glides  into  the  parlour. 

"  Oh  !  It  is  so  ridiculous !"  says  the  apparition,  stopping  and 
shrinking.     "  Don't,  Eddy  !" 

"  Don't  what,  Rosa  ?" 

"  Don't  come  any  nearer,  please.     It  is  so  absurd." 

"  What  is  absurd,  Rosa?" 

"  The  whole  thing  is.  It  is  so  absurd  to  be  an  engaged  orphan  ; 
and  it  is  so  absurd  to  have  the  girls  and  the  servants  scuttling 
about  after  one,  like  mice  in  the  wainscot ;  and  it  is  so  absurd  to 
be  called  upon !" 

The  apparition  appears  to  have  a  thumb  in  the  corner  of  its 
mouth  while  making  this  complaint. 

"  You  give  me  an  affectionate  reception,  Pussy,  I  must  say." 

"  Well,  I  will  in  a  minute,  Eddy,  but  I  can't  just  yet.  How 
are  you?"  (very  shortly). 

"  I  am  unable  to  reply  that  I  am  much  the  better  for  seeing  you. 
Pussy,  inasmuch  as  I  see  nothing  of  you." 

This  second  remonstrance  brings  a  dark  bright  pouting  eye  out 
from  a  corner  of  the  apron  ;  but  it  swiftly  becomes  invisible  again, 
as  the  apparition  exclaims :  "  Oh !  Good  Gracious,  you  have  had 
half  your  hair  cut  off !" 

"I  should  have  done  better  to  have  had  my  head  cut  off,  I 
think,"  says  Edwin,  rumpling  the  hair  in  question,  with  a  fierce 
glance  at  the  looking-glass,  and  giving  an  impatient  stamp. 
"  Shall  I  go  ?" 

"  No ;  you  needn't  go  just  yet,  Eddy.  The  girls  would  all  be 
asking  questions  why  you  went  " 

"  Once  for  all,  Rosa,  will  you  uncover  that  ridiculous  little  head 
of  yours  and  give  me  a  welcome  ?" 

The  a]Dron  is  pulled  off  the  childish  head,  as  its  wearer  replies  : 
"You're  very  welcome,  Eddy.  There!  I'm  sure  that's  nice. 
Shake  hands.  No,  I  can't  kiss  you,  because  I've  got  an  acidulated 
drop  in  my  mouth." 

"  Are  you  at  all  glad  to  see  me,  Pussy  ?" 

"  Oh,  yes,  I'm  dreadfully  glad. — Go  and  sit  down. — Miss 
Twinkleton." 

It  is  the  custom  of  that  excellent  lady,  when  these  visits  occur, 
to  appear  every  three  minutes,  either  in  her  own  person  or  in 
that  of  Mrs.  Tisher,  and  lay  an  offering  on  the  shrine  of  Propriety 
by  affecting  to  look  for  some  desiderated  article.  On  the  present 
occasion.  Miss  Twinkleton,  gracefully  gliding  in  and  out,  says,  in 
passing  :  "  How  do  you  do,  Mr.  Drood  ?  Very  glad  indeed  to  have 
the  pleasure.     Pray  excuse  me.     Tweezers.     Thank  you  !" 

"  I  got  the  gloves  last  evening,  Eddy,  and  I  like  them  very 
much.     They  are  beauties." 

"Well,  that's  something,"  the  affianced  replies,  half  grumbling. 
"  The  smallest  encouragement  thankfully  received.  And  how  did 
you  pass  your  birthday,  Pussy  ?" 


\6  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

"  Delightfully  !  Everybody  gave  me  a  present.  And  we  ha^ 
a  feast.     And  we  had  a  ball  at  night." 

"  A  feast  and  a  ball,  eh  ?  These  occasions  seem  to  go  off  toler- 
ably well  without  me,  Pussy." 

"  De-lightfully !"  cries  Eosa,  in  a  quite  spontaneous  manner,  and 
without  the  least  pretence  of  reserve. 

"  Hah  !     And  what  was  the  feast  ?" 

"  Tarts,  oranges,  jellies,  and  shrimps." 

"  Any  partners  at  the  ball  ?" 

"  We  danced  with  one  another,  of  course,  sir.  But  some  of  the 
girls  made  game  to  be  their  brothers.     It  was  so  droll !" 

"  Did  anybody  make  game  to  be " 

"  To  be  you  ?  Oh  dear  yes !"  cries  Eosa,  laughing  with  great 
enjoyment.     "  That  was  the  first  thing  done." 

"  I  hope  she  did  it  pretty  well,"  says  Edwin,  rather  doubt- 
fully. 

"  Oh  !  It  was  excellent ! — I  wouldn't  dance  with  you,  yon 
know." 

Edwin  scarcely  seems  to  see  the  force  of  this ;  begs  to  know  if 
he  may  take  the  liberty  to  ask  why  ? 

"  Because  I  was  so  tired  of  you,"  returns  Eosa.  But  she  quickly 
adds,  and  ]3leadingly  too,  seeing  displeasure  in  his  face :  "  Dear 
Eddy,  you  were  just  as  tired  of  me,  you  know." 

"  Did  I  say  so,  Eosa  ?" 

"  Say  so !  Do  you  ever  say  so  ?  Ko,  you  only  showed  it.  Oh, 
she  did  it  so  well !"  cries  Eosa,  in  a  sudden  ecstacy  with  her 
counterfeit  betrothed. 

"  It  strikes  me  that  she  must  be  a  devilish  impudent  girl,"  says 
Edwin  Drood.  "  And  so.  Pussy,  you  have  passed  3^our  last  birth- 
day in  this  old  house." 

"  Ah,  yes !"  Eosa  clasps  her  hands,  looks  down  with  a  sigh,  and 
shakes  her  head. 

"  You  seem  to  be  sorry,  Eosa." 

"  I  am  sorry  for  the  poor  old  place.  Somehow,  I  feel  as  if  it 
would  miss  me,  when  I  am  gone  so  far  away,  so  young." 

"  Perhaps  we  had  better  stop  short,  Eosa  ?" 

She  looks  up  at  him  with  a  swift  bright  look ;  next  moment 
shakes  her  head,  sighs,  and  looks  down  again. 

"  That  is  to  say,  is  it  Pussy,  that  we  are  both  resigned  ?" 

She  nods  her  head  again,  and  after  a  short  silence,  quaintly 
bursts  out  with  :  "  You  know  we  must  be  married,  and  married 
from  here,  Eddy,  or  the  poor  girls  will  be  so  dreadfully  disap- 
pointed !" 

For  the  moment  there  is  more  of  compassion,  both  for  her  and 
for  himself,  in  her  affianced  husband's  face,  than  there  is  of  love. 
He  checks  the  look,  and  asks  :  "  Shall  I  take  you  out  for  a  walk, 
Eosa  dear  ?" 

Eosa  dear  does  not  seem  at  all  clear  on  this  point,  until  her  face, 
which  has  been  comically  reflective,  brightens.  "  Oh,  yes,  Eddy  ; 
let  as  go  for  a  walk  !  And  I  tell  you  what  we'll  do.  You  shall 
pretend  that  you  are  engaged  to  somebody  else,  and  I'll  pretend 
that  I  am  not  engaged  to  an^'body,  and  then  we  shan't  quarrel." 


THE   NUNS     HOUSE. 


17 


*'  Do  yon  tliink  that  will  prevent  onr  falling  out,  Eosa  ?" 

"  I  know  it  will.  Hush !  Pretend  to  look  out  of  window- 
—Mrs.  Tisher !" 

Through  a  fortuitous  concourse  of  accidents,  the  matronly 
Tisher  heaves  in  sight,  says,  in  rustling  through  the  room 
like  the  legendary  ghost  of  a  Dowager  in  silken  skirts  :  "I  hope  I 
see  Mr.  Drood  well ;  though  I  needn't  ask,  if  I  may  judge  from  his 
complexion  ?  I  trust  I  disturb  no  one ;  but  there  was  a  paper- 
knife — Oh,  thank  you,  I  am  sure  !"  and  disappears  with  her  prize. 

"  One  other  thing  jou  must  do,  Eddy,  to  oblige  me,"  says  Rose- 
~bud.  "  The  moment  we  get  into  the  street,  you  must  put  me 
outside,  and  keep  close  to  the  house  yourself — squeeze  and  graze 
yourself  against  it." 

"  By  all  means,  Eosa,  if  you  wish  it.     Might  I  ask  why  ?" 

"  Oh !  because  I  don't  want  the  girls  to  see  you." 

"  It's  a  fine  day ;  but  would  you  like  me  to  carry  an  umbrella 
lip  ?" 

"  Don't  be  foolish,  sir.  You  haven't  got  polished  leather  boots 
on,"  pouting,  with  one  shoulder  raised. 

"  Perhaps  that  might  escape  the  notice  of  the  girls,  even  if  they 
did  see  me,"  remarks  Edwin,  looking  down  at  his  boots  with  a 
sudden  distaste  for  them. 

"  Nothing  escapes  their  notice,  sir.  And  then  I  know  what 
would  happen.  Some  of  them  would  begin  reflecting  on  me  by 
saying  (for  they  are  free)  that  they  never  will  on  any  account 
engage  themselves  to  lovers  without  polished  leather  boots.  Hark  ! 
Miss  Twinkleton.     I'll  ask  for  leave." 

That  discreet  lady  being  indeed  heard  without,  inquiring  of 
jiobody  in  a  blandly  conversational  tone  as  she  advances  :  "  Eh  ? 
Indeed  !  Are  jon  quite  sure  you  saw  my  mother-of-pearl  button- 
holder  on  the  work-table  in  my  room  ?"  is  at  once  solicited  for 
walking  leave,  and  graciously  accords  it.  And  soon  the  young 
couple  go  out  of  the  Nuns'  House,  taking  all  precautions  against 
the  discovery  of  the  so  vitally  defective  boots  of  Mr.  Edwin  Drood  : 
precautions,  let  us  hope,  effective  for  the  peace  of  Mrs.  Edwin 
jDrood  that  is  to  be. 

"  Which  way  shall  we  take,  Eosa  ?" 

Eosa  replies  :  "  I  want  to  go  to  the  Lumps-of-Delight  shop." 

"  To  the ?" 

"  A  Turkish  sweetmeat,  sir.  My  gracious  me,  don't  you  under- 
.stand  anything  ?     Call  yourself  an  Engineer,  and  not  know  that  f 

"  Why,  how  should  I  know  it,  Eosa  ?" 

"  Because  I  am  very  fond  of  them.  But  oh  !  I  forgot  what  we 
-are  to  pretend.  No,  you  needn't  know  anything  about  them; 
never  mind." 

So,  he  is  gloomily  borne  off  to  the  Lumps-of-Delight  shop,  where 
Eosa  makes  her  purchase,  and,  after  offering  some  to  him  (which 
he  rather  indignantly  declines),  begins  to  partake  of  it  with  great 
zest :  previously  taking  off  and  rolling  up  a  pair  of  little  pink 
gloves,  like  rose-leaves,  and  occasionaUy  putting  her  little  pink 
iingers  to  her  rosy  lips,  to  cleanse  them  from  the  Dust  of  Delight 
that  comes  off  the  Lumps. 

c 


18  THE   MYSTEEY   OF-  EDWIN   DEOOD. 

"  Now,  "be  a  good-tempered  Eddy,  and  pretend.  And  so  yon  are- 
engaged  ?" 

"  And  so  I  am  engaged." 

"  Is  she  nice  ?" 

"  Charming." 

"Tall?" 

"  Immensely  tall !"     Eosa  being  short. 

"Must  be  gawky,  I  shonld  think,"  is  Eosa's  quiet  commen- 
tary. 

"  I  beg  yonr  pardon ;  not  at  all,"  contradiction  rising  in  him. 
"  What  is  termed  a  line  woman ;  a  splendid  woman." 

"  Big  nose,  no  donbt,"  is  the  quiet  commentary  again. 

"  Not  a  little  one,  certainly,"  is  the  quick  reply.  (Rosa's  beiEg 
a  little  one.) 

"  Long  pale  nose,  with  a  red  knob  in  the  middle.  I  know  the 
sort  of  nose,"  says  Eosa,  with  a  satisfied  nod,  and  tranquilly 
enjoying  the  Lumps. 

"  You  doiit  know  the  sort  of  nose,  Eosa,"  with  some  warmth ;. 
"  because  it's  nothing  of  the  kind." 

"  Not  a  pale  nose,  Eddy  ?" 

"  No."     Determined  not  to  assent. 

"  A  red  nose  ?  Oh !  I  don't  like  red  noses.  However ;  to  be 
sure  she  can  always  powder  it." 

"  She  would  scorn  to  powder  it,"  says  Edwin,  becoming- 
heated. 

"  Would  she  ?  What  a  stupid  thing  she  must  be !  Is  she  stupid 
in  everything  ?" 

"  No.     In  nothing." 

After  a  pause,  in  which  the  whimsically  wicked  face  has  not 
been  unobservant  of  him,  Eosa  says  : 

"  And  this  most  sensible  of  creatures  likes  the  idea  of  beino: 
carried  off  to  Egypt ;  does  she,  Eddy?" 

"  Yes.     She  takes  a  sensible  interest  in  triumphs  of  engineeriug 
skill :    especially  when  they  are  to  change  the  whole  condition  of 
an  undeveloped  country." 

"  Lor !"  says  Eosa,  shrugging  her  shoulders,  with  a  little  laugh 
of  wonder. 

"  Do  you  object,"  Edwin  inquires,  with  a  majestic  turn  of  his 
eyes  downward  upon  the  fairy  figure  :  "do  you  object,  Eosa,  to  her 
feeling  that  interest  ?" 

"  Object  ?  My  dear  Eddy !  But  really.  Doesn't  she  hate  boilers 
and  things  ?" 

"  I  can  answer  for  her  not  being  so  idiotic  as  to  hate  Boilers," 
he  returns  with  angry  emphasis ;  "  though  I  cannot  answer  for 
her  views  about  Things ;  really  not  understanding  what  Things 
are  meant." 

"  But  don't  she  hate  Arabs,  and  Turks,  and  Fellahs,  and 
people  ?" 

"  Certainly  not."     Very  firmly. 

"  At  least,  she  must  hate  the  Pyramids  ?  Come,  Eddy  ?" 

"  Why  should  she  be  such  a  little — tall,  I  mean — Goose,  as  to- 
hate  the  Pyramids,  Eosa  ?" 


THE   nuns'    house.  19 

"All!  jOTi  should  hear  Miss  Twinkleton,"  often  nodding  her 
head,  and  much  enjoying  the  Lumps,  "  bore  about  them,  and  then 
you  wouldn't  ask.  Tiresome  old  burying-grounds !  Isises,  and 
Ibises,  and  Cheopses,  and  Pharaohses ;  who  cares  about  them  ? 
And  then  there  was  Belzoni  or  somebody,  dragged  out  by  the 
legs,;, half  choked  with  bats  and  dust.  All  the  girls  say  serve  him 
right,  and  hope  it  hurt  him,  and  wish  he  had  been  quite 
choked." 

The  two  youthful  figures,  side  by  side,  but  not  now  arm-in-arm, 
wander  discontentedlj'-  about  the  old  Close ;  and  each  some- 
times stops  and  slowly  imprints  a  deeper  footstep  in  the  fallen 
leaves. 

"  AVell !"  says  Edwin,  after  a  lengthy  silence.  "  According  to 
custom.     We  can't  get  on,  Eosa." 

Eosa  tosses  her  head,  and  says  she  don't  want  to  get  on, 

"  That's  a  pretty  sentiment,  Eosa,  considering." 

"  Considering  what  ?" 

"  If  I  say  what,  you'll  go  wrong  again." 

"  You'll  go  wrong,  you  mean,  Eddy.     Don't  be  ungenerous." 

"  Ungenerous !     I  like  that !" 

"  Then  I  dori't  like  that,  and  so  I  tell  you  plainly,"  Eosa 
pouts. 

"  Now,  Eosa,  I  put  it  to  you.  Who  disparaged  my  profession, 
my  destination " 

"  You  are  not  going  to  be  buried  in  the  Pyramids,  I  hope  ?"  she 
interrupts,  arching  her  delicate  eyebrows.  "  You  never  said  you 
were.  If  you  are,  why  haven't  you  mentioned  it  to  me  ?  I  can't 
find  out  your  plans  by  instinct." 

"  Now,  Eosa  ;  you  know  very  well  what  I  mean,  my  dear." 

"  Well  then,  why  did  you  begin  with  your  detestable  red-nosed 
Giantesses  ?  And  she  would,  she  would,  she  would,  she  would,  she 
WOULD  powder  it !"  cries  Eosa,  in  a  little  burst  of  comical  contra- 
dictory spleen. 

"  Somehow  or  other,  I  never  can  come  right  in  these  discussions," 
says  Edwin,  sighing  and  becoming  resigned. 

"  How  is  it  possible,  sir,  that  you  ever  can  come  right  when 
you're  always  wrong  ?  And  as  to  Belzoni,  I  suppose  he's  dead ; 
— I'm  sure  I  hope  he  is — and  how  can  his  legs,  or  his  chokes 
concern  you  ?" 

"  It  is  nearly  time  for  your  return,  Eosa.  We  have  not  had  a 
very  happy  walk,  have  we  ?" 

"  A  happy  walk  ?  A  detestably  unhappy  walk,  sir.  If  I  go  up 
stairs  the  moment  I  get  in  and  cry  till  I  can't  take  my  dancing- 
lesson,  you  are  responsible,  mind !" 

"  Let  us  be  friends,  Eosa." 

"  Ah !"  cries  Eosa,  shaking  her  head  and  bursting  into  real 
tears.  "  I  wish  we  could  be  friends !  It's  because  we  can't  be 
friends,  that  we  try  one  another  so.  I  am  a  young  little  thing, 
Eddy,  to  have  an  old  heartache ;  but  I  really,  really  have,  some- 
times. Don't  be  angry.  I  know  you  have  one  yourself,  too  often. 
We  should  both  of  us  have  done  better,  if  What  is  to  be  had  been 
left,  What  might  have  been.     I  am  quite  a  serious  little  thing  now, 

c.  2 


CO  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

and  not  teasing  you.  Let  each  of  us  forbear,  this  one  time,  on  our 
own  account,  and  on  the  other's!" 

Disarmed  by  this  glimpse  of  a  %voman's  nature  in  the  spoilt 
child,  though  for  an  instant  disposed  to  resent  it  as  seeming  to 
involve  the  enforced  infliction  of  himself  upon  her,  Edwin  Drood 
stands  watching  her  as  she  childishly  cries  and  sobs,  with  both 
hands  to  the  handkerchief  at  her  eyes,  and  then — she  becoming- 
more  composed,  and  indeed  beginning  in  her  j^oung  inconstancy 
to  laugh  at  herself  for  having  been  so  moved — leads  her  to  a  seat 
hard  by,  under  the  elm  trees. 

*'  One  clear  word  of  understanding,  Pussy  dear.  I  am  not  clever 
out  of  my  own  line — now  I  come  to  think  of  it  I  don't  know  that 
I  am  particularly  clever  in  it — but  I  want  to  do  right.  There  is 
not — there  may  be — I  reall}^  don't  see  my  way  to  what  1  want  to 
say,  but  I  must  say  it  before  we  part — there  is  not  any  other 
young ?" 

"  Oh  no,  Eddy !  It's  generous  of  you  to  ask  me ;  but  no,  no, 
no!" 

They  have  come  very  near  to  the  Cathedral  windows,  and  at  this 
moment  the  organ  and  the  choir  sound  out  sublimely.  As  they  sit 
listening  to  the  solemn  swell,  the  confidence  of  last  night  rises  in 
young  Edwin  Brood's  mind,  and  he  thinks  how  unlike  this  music 
is,  to  that  discordance. 

*'  I  fancy  I  can  distinguish  Jack's  voice,"  is  his  remark  in  a  low 
tone  in  connexion  with  the  train  of  thought. 

"  Take  me  back  at  once,  please,"  urges  his  Affianced,  quickly 
laying  her  light  hand  upon  his  wrist.  "  They  will  all  be  coming 
out  directly  ;  let  us  get  away.  Oh,  what  a  resounding  chord !  But 
don't  let  us  stop  to  listen  to  it ;  let  us  get  away !" 

Her  hurry  is  over,  as  soon  as  they  have  passed  out  of  the  Close. 
They  go,  arm-in-arm  now,  gravely  and  deliberately  enough,  along 
the  old  High  Street,  to  the  Nuns'  House.  At  the  gate,  the  street 
being  within  sight  empty,  Edwin  bends  down  his  face  to 
Eosebud's. 

She  remonstrates,  laughing,  and  is  a  childish  schoolgirl  again. 

"  Eddy,  no  !  I'm  too  stickey  to  be  kissed.  But  give  me  your 
hand,  and  I'll  blow  a  kiss  into  that." 

He  does  so.  She  breathes  a  light  breath  into  it,  and  asks,  re- 
tainino;  it  and  looking  into  it : 

"  Now  saj,  what  do  you  see?*' 

"  See,  Eosa  ?" 

*'  Why,  I  thought  you  Egyptian  boys  could  look  into  a  hand  and 
see  all  sorts  of  phantoms  ?    Can't  you  see  a  happy  Future  ?" 

For  certain,  neither  of  them  sees  a  happy  Present,  as  the  gate 
opens  and  closes,  and  one  goes  in  and  the  other  goes  away. 


\  ^^ 


/  'I  ^-^ 


THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DEOOD.  21 

CHAPTER  lY. 

MR.    SAPSEA. 

AccErxixG  tlie  Jackass  as  tlie  type  of  self-sufficient  stupidity  and 
conceit — a  custom,  perhaps,  like  some  few  other  customs,  more 
conventional  than  fair — then  the  purest  Jackass  in  Cloisterham  is 
Mr.  Thomas  Sapsea,  Auctioneer. 

Mr.  Sapsea  "  dresses  at  "  the  Dean  ;  has  been  bowed  to  for  the 
Dean,  in  mistake ;  has  even  been  spoken  to  in  the  street  as  My 
Lord,  under  the  impression  that  he  was  the  Bishop  come  doAvn  un- 
expectedly, without  his  chaplain.  Mr.  Sapsea  is  very  proud  of  this, 
and  of  his  voice,  and  of  his  style.  He  has  even  (in  selling  landed 
property),  tried  the  experiment  of  slightly  intoning  in  his  pulpit,  to 
make  himself  more  like  what  he  takes  to  be  the  genuine  eccle- 
siastical article.  So,  in  ending  a  Sale  by  Public  Auction,  I\Ir. 
Sapsea  finishes  off  with  an  air  of  bestowing  a  benediction  on  the 
assembled  brokers,  which  leaves  the  real  Dean — a  modest  and 
worthy  gentleman — far  behind. 

Mr.  Sapsea  has  many  admirers ;  indeed,  the  proposition  is  carried 
by  a  large  local  majority,  even  including  non-believers  in  his 
wisdom,  that  he  is  a  credit  to  Cloisterham.  He  possesses  the 
gi^eat  qualities  of  being  portentous  and  dull,  and  of  having  a  roll 
in  his  speech,  and  another  roll  in  his  gait ;  not  to  mention  a  certain 
gravely  flowing  action  with  his  hands,  as  if  he  were  presently 
going  to  Confirm  the  individual  with  Avhom  he  holds  discourse. 
Much  nearer  sixt}^  3'ears  of  age  than  fifty,  with  a  flowing  outline 
of  stomach,  and  horizontal  creases  in  his  waistcoat ;  reputed  to  bo 
i-ich ;  voting  at  elections  in  the  strictly  respectable  interest ; 
morally  satisfied  that  nothing  but  he  himself  has  grown  since  he 
was  a  baby  ;  how  can  dunder-headed  Mr.  Sapsea  be  otherwise  than 
a  credit  to  Cloisterham,  and  society  ? 

Mr.  Sapsea's  premises  are  in  the  High  Street,  over  against  the 
Kuns'  House.  They  are  of  about  the  period  of  the  Kuns'  House, 
irregularly  modernized  here  and  there,  as  steadily  deteriorating 
generations  found,  more  and  more,  that  they  preferred  air  and  light 
to  Fever  and  the  Plague.  Over  the  doorway,  is  a  wooden  effigy, 
about  half  life-size,  representing  Mr.  Sapsea's  father,  in  a  curly 
wig  and  toga,  in  the  act  of  selling.  The  chastity  of  the  idea,  and 
the  natural  appearance  of  the  little  finger,  hammer,  and  pulpit,  have 
been  much  admired. 

Mr.  Sapsea  sits  in  his  dull  ground-floor  sitting-room,  giving 
first  on  his  paved  back  yard,  and  then  on  his  railed-ofl*  garden. 
Mr.  Sapsea  has  a  bottle  of  port  wine  on  a  table  before  the  fire — 
the  fire  is  an  earh'  luxury,  but  pleasant  on  the  cool,  chilly  autumn 
evening  -  -and  is  characteristically  attended  by  his  portrait,  his 
eight-day  clock,  and  his  weather-glass.  Characteristically,  be- 
cause he  would  uphold  himself  against  mankind,  his  weather-glass 
against  weather,  and  his  clock  against  time. 

By  Mr.  Sapsea's  side  on  the  table  are  a  writing-desk  and  writing 
materials.     Glancing  at  a  scrap  of  manuscript,  JMr.  Sapsea  reads  it 


22  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

to  liimself  witli  a  lofty  air,  and  then,  slowly  pacing  tlie  room  with 
his  thumbs  in  the  arm-holes  of  his  waistcoat,  repeats  it  from 
memory :  so  internally,  though  with  much  dignity,  that  the  word 
"  Ethelinda  "  is  alone  audible. 

There  are  three  clean  wineglasses  in  a  tray  on  the  table.  His 
serving-maid  entering,  and  announcing  "  Mr.  Jasper  is  come,  sir," 
Mr.  Sapsea  waves  "  Admit  him  "  and  draws  two  wineglasses  from 
the  rank,  as  being  claimed. 

"  Glad  to  see  you,  sir.  I  congratulate  myself  on  having  the 
honor  of  receiving  you  here  for  the  first  time."  Mr.  Sapsea  does 
the  honors  of  his  house  in  this  wise. 

"  You  are  very  good.  The  honor  is  mine  and  the  self-congra- 
tulation is  mine." 

*'  You  are  pleased  to  say  so,  sir.  But  I  do  assure  you  that  it  is 
a  satisfaction  to  me  to  receive  you  in  my  humble  home.  And  that 
is  what  I  would  not  say  to  everybody."  Ineffable  loftiness  on  Mr. 
Sapsea's  part  accompanies  these  words,  as  leaving  the  sentence  to 
be  understood :  "  You  will  not  easily  believe  that  your  society  can 
be  a  satisfaction  to  a  man  like  myself;  nevertheless,  it  is." 

"  I  have  for  some  time  desired  to  know  you,  Mr.  Sapsea." 

"  And  I,  sir,  have  long  known  you  by  reputation  as  a  man  of 
taste.  Let  me  fill  your  glass.  I  will  give  you,  sir,"  says  Mr. 
Sapsea,  filling  his  own  : 

*'  When  the  French  come  over, 
May  we  meet  them  at  Dover  !" 

This  was  a  patriotic  toast  in  Mr.  Sapsea's  infancy,  and  he  is 
therefore  fully  convinced  of  its  being  appropriate  to  any  sub- 
sequent era. 

"  You  can  scarcely  be  ignorant,  Mr.  Sapsea,"  observes  Jasper, 
watching  the  auctioneer  with  a  smile  as  the  latter  stretches  out 
his  legs  before  the  fire,  "  that  you  know  the  world." 

"  Well,  sir,"  is  the  chuckling  reply,  "  I  think  I  know  some- 
thing of  it ;  something  of  it." 

"  Your  reputation  for  that  knowledge  has  always  interested  and 
surprised  me,  and  made  me  wish  to  know  you.  For,  Cloisterham 
is  a  little  place.  Cooped  up  in  it  myself,  I  know  nothing  beyond 
it,  and  feel  it  to  be  a  yqtj  little  place." 

*'  If  I  have  not  gone  to  foreign  countries,  young  man,"  Mr. 
Sapsea  begins,  and  then  stops  : — "  You  will  excuse  my  calling  you 
young  man,  Mr.  Jasper  ?     You  are  much  my  juni.or." 

"  By  all  means." 

•'  If  I  have  not  gone  to  foreign  countries,  young  man,  foreign 
countries  have  come  to  me.  They  have  come  to  me  in  the  way  ol 
business,  and  I  have  improved  upon  my  opportunities.  Put  it 
that  I  take  an  inventory,  or  make  a  catalogue.  I  see  a  French 
clock.  I  never  saw  him  before,  in  my  life,  but  I  instantly  lay  my 
finger  on  him  and  say  '  Paris !'  I  see  some  cups  and  saucers  of 
Chinese  make,  equally  strangers  to  me  j^ersonally :  I  put  my 
finger  on  them,  tlicn  and  there,  and  I  say  '  Pekin,  Kankin,  and 
Canton.'  It  is  the  same  with  Jaj^an,  with  Egypt,  and  with 
bamboo  and  sandal-wood  from  the  East  Indies ;  I  put  my  finger 


MR.    SAPSEA.  23 

on  tliem  all.  I  have  put  mj  finger  on  the  North  Pole  before  now, 
and  said,  '  Spear  of  Esquimaux  make,  for  half  a  pint  of  pale 
sherry !'  " 

"Keally  ?  A  very  remarkable  wa}^,  Mr.  Sapsea,  of  acquiring  a 
knowledge  of  men  and  things." 

"  I  mention  it,  sir,"  Mr.  Sapsea  rejoins,  with  unspeakable  com- 
placency, "because,  as  I  say,  it  don't  do  to  boast  of  what  you  are; 
but  show  how  3'ou  came  to  be  it,  and  then  you  prove  it." 

"  Most  interesting.     We  were  to  speak  of  the  late  Mrs.  Sapsea." 

"  "We  were,  sir."  Mr.  Sapsea  fills  both  glasses,  and  takes  the 
decanter  into  safe  keeping  again.  "  Before  I  consult  your  opinion 
as  a  man  of  taste  on  this  little  trifle  "—holding  it  up — •''  which  is 
hut  a  trifle,  and  still  has  required  some  thought,  sir,  some  little 
fever  of  the  brow,  I  ought  perhaps  to  describe  the  character  of  the 
late  Mrs.  Sapsea,  now  dead  three  quarters  of  a  year." 

Mr.  Jasper,  in  the  act  of  yawning  behind  his  wineglass,  puts 
down  that  screen  and  calls  up  a  look  of  interest.  It  is  a  little 
imj^aired  in  its  expressiveness  by  his  having  a  shut-up  gape  still 
to  dispose  of,  Avith  watering  eyes. 

"  Half  a  dozen  years  ago,  or  so,"  Mr.  Sapsea  proceeds,  "  when  I 
had  enlarged  my  mind  up  to — I  will  not  say  to  what  it  now  is,  for 
that  might  seem  to  aim  at  too  much,  but  up  to  the  pitch  of  want- 
ing another  mind  to  be  absorbed  in  it — I  cast  my  eye  about  me  for 
a  nuptial  partner.  Because,  as  I  say,  it  is  not  good  for  man  to  be 
alone." 

Mr.  Jasper  appears  to  commit  this  original  idea  to  memory. 

"  Miss  Brobity  at  that  time  kept,  I  will  not  call  it  the  rival 
establishment  to  the  establishment  at  the  Xuns'  House  opposite, 
but  I  will  call  it  the  other  parallel  establishment  down  town.  The 
world  did  have  it  that  she  showed  a  passion  for  attending  my 
sales,  when  the}-  took  place  on  half-holidays,  or  in  vacation  time. 
The  world  did  put  it  about,  that  she  admired  my  style.  The  world 
did  notice  that  as  time  flowed  by,  my  style  became  traceable  in 
the  dictation-exercises  of  Miss  Brobity's  pupils.  Young  man,  a 
whisper  even  sprang  up  in  obscure  malignity,  that  one  ignorant 
and  besotted  Churl  (a  parent)  so  committed  himself  as  to  object  to 
it  by  name.  But  I  do  not  believe  this.  For  is  it  likely  that  any 
human  creature  in  his  right  senses  would  so  lay  himself  open  to 
be  pointed  at,  by  what  I  call  the  finger  of  scorn  ?" 

Mr.  Jasper  shakes  his  head.  Not  in  the  least  likely.  Mr. 
Sapsea,  in  a  grandiloquent  state  of  absence  of  mind,  seems  to  refill 
his  visitor's  glass,  which  is  full  already ;  and  does  really  refill  his 
own,  which  is  empty. 

"Miss  Brobity's  Being,  young  man,  was  deeply  imbued  with 
homage  to  Mind.  She  revered  Mind,  when  launched,  or,  as  I  say, 
precipitated,  on  an  extensive  knowledge  of  the  world.  When  1 
made  my  proposal,  she  did  me  the  honor  to  be  so  overshadowed 
with  a  species  of  Awe,  as  to  be  able  to  articulate  only  the  two 
words,  '  Oh  Thou  !' — meaning  myself.  Her  limpid  blue  eyes  were 
fixed  upon  me,  her  semi-transparent  hands  were  clasped  together, 
pallor  overspread  her  aquiline  features,  and,  though  encouraged  to 
X3roceed,  she  never  did  proceed  a  word  further.     I  disposed  of  the 


24  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

parallel  establisliment,  by  private  contract,  and  we  became  as  nearly 
one  as  could  be  expected  under  the  circumstances.  But  she  never 
could,  and  she  never  did,  find  a  phrase  satisfactory  to  her 
perhaps-too-favourable  estimate  of  my  intellect.  To  the  Yevy  last 
(feeble  action  of  liver),  she  addressed  me  in  the  same  unfinished 
terms." 

Mr.  Jasper  has  closed  his  eyes  as  the  auctioneer  has  deepened 
his  voice.  He  now  abruptly  opens  them,  and  says,  in  unison  with 
the  deepened  voice  "  Ah !" — rather  as  if  stopping  himself  on  the 
extreme  verge  of  adding — "  men  !" 

"  I  have  been  since,"  says  Mr.  Sapsea,  with  his  legs  stretched 
out,  and  solemnly  enjoying  himself  with  the  wine  and  the 
fire,  "  what  you  behold  me ;  I  have  been  since  a  solitary 
mourner ;  I  have  been  since,  as  I  say,  wasting  my  evening  conver- 
sation on  the  desert  air.  I  will  not  say  that  I  have  reproached 
myself ;  but  there  have  been  times  Avhen  I  have  asked  myself  the 
question :  What  if  her  husband  had  been  nearer  on  a  level  with 
her?  If  she  had  not  had  to  look  up  quite  so  high,  what  might 
the  stimulating  action  have  been  upon  the  liver  ?" 

Mr.  Jasper  says,  with  an  aj)pearance  of  having  fallen  into 
dreadfully  low  spirits,  that  he  "  supposes  it  was  to  be." 

"  We  can  only  suj^pose  so,  sir,"  Mr.  Sapsea  coincides.  "  As  I  say,- 
Man  proposes,  Heaven  disposes.  It  may  or  may  not  be  putting  the 
same  thought  in  another  form  ;  but  that  is  the  way  I  put  it." 

Mr.  Jasper  murmurs  assent. 

"  And  now,  Mr.  Jasj^er,"  resumes  the  auctioneer,  producing  his 
scrap  of  manuscript,  "  Mrs.  Sapsea's  monument  having  had  full 
time  to  settle  and  dry,  let  me  take  your  oj^inion,  as  a  man  of  taste, 
on  the  inscrijotion  I  have  (as  I  before  remarked,  not  without  some 
little  fever  of  the  brow),  drawn  out  for  it.  Take  it  in  your  own 
hand.  The  setting  out  of  the  lines  requires  to  be  followed  with 
the  eye,  as  well  as  the  contents  with  the  mind." 

31r.  Jasper  complying,  sees  and  reads  as  follows : 

ETHELINDA, 

Eeverential  Wife  of 

MR.  THOMAS   SAPSEA, 

AIXTIOXEER,  VALUER,  ESTATE  AGENT,  &c.» 

OF  THIS  CITY. 

"Whose  Knowledge  of  tlie  World, 

Though  somewhat  extensive. 

Never  brought  him  acquainted  with 

A   SPIKIT 

lilore   capable  of 

LOOKING   UP  TO  HIM. 

STRANGER  PAUSE 

An;l  ask  thyself  the  Question, 

CANST    THOU   DO    LIKEWISE? 

If  Not, 

Vv'iTII  A  BLUSH  EETIIIE. 


MR.    SAPSEA.  25 

Mr.  Sapsea  having  risen  and  stationed  himself  with  his  back  to 
the  fire,  for  the  purpose  of  observing  the  effect  of  these  lines  on  the 
countenance  of  a  man  of  taste,  consequently  has  his  face  towards 
the  door,  when  his  serving-maid,  again  appearing,  announces, 
"  Durdles  is  come,  sir !"  He  promptly  draws  forth  and  fills  the  third 
wineglass,  as  being  now  claimed,  and  rej^lies,  "Show  Durdles  in." 

"  Admirable  !"  quoth  Mr.  Jasper,  handing  back  the  paper. 

"  You  approve,  sir  ?" 

"  Impossible  not  to  approve.  Striking,  characteristic,  and 
complete." 

The -auctioneer  inclines  his  head,  as  one  accepting  his  duo  and 
o-iving  a  receij^t ;  and  invites  the  entering  Durdles  to  take  off  that 
glass  of  wine  (handing  the  same),  for  it  will  warm  him. 

Durdles  is  a  stonemason  ;  chiefly  in  the  gravestone,  tomb,  and 
monument  way,  and  wholly  of  their  color  from  head  to  foot.     No 
man  is  better  known  in  Cloisterham.    He  is  the  chartered  libertine 
of  the  place.      Fame  trumpets  him  a  wonderful  workman — which, 
for  aught  that  anybody  knows,  he  may  be  (as  he  never  works)  : 
and  a  wonderful  sot — which  everybody  knows  he  is.     With  the 
Cathedral  crypt  he  is  better  acquainted  than  any  living  authority  ;■ 
it  may  even  be  than  any  dead  one.     It  is  said  that  the  intimacy 
of   this  acquaintance   began   in  his  habitually  resorting  to  that 
secret   place,   to   lock    out    the    Cloisterham    boy-populace,    and 
sleep   oft"   the   fumes   of   liquor :    he   having  ready  access  to  the 
Cathedral,  as  contractor  for  rough  repairs.     Be  this  as  it  may,  he 
does  know  much  about  it,  and,  in  the  demolition  of  impedimental 
fragments  of  wall,  buttress,  and  pavement,  has  seen  strange  sights. 
He  often  speaks  of  himself  in  the  third  person ;  perhaps  being  a 
little  misty  as  to  his  own  identity  when  he  narrates;  perhaps 
impartially  adopting  the  Cloisterham  nomenclature  in  reference 
to  a  character  of  acknowledged  distinction.      Thus  he  will  say, 
touching  his  strange  sights  :  "  Durdles  come  upon  the  old  chap," 
in  reference  to  a  buried  magnate  of  ancient  time  and  high  degree, 
"  by  striking  right  into  the  coffin  with  his  pick.     The  old  chap 
gave  Durdles  a  look  with  his  open  eyes,  as  much  as  to  say  '  Is 
your  name  Durdles  ?     Why,  my  man,  I've  been  waiting  for  you  a 
Devil   of  a  time!'      And  then  he  turned  to  powder."     With   a 
two-foot  rule  always  in  his  pocket,  and  a  mason's  hammer  all  but 
always  in  his  hand,  Durdles  goes  continually  sounding  and  tap- 
ping all  about  and  about  the  Cathedral ;  and  whenever  he  says  to 
Tope  :  "  Tope,  here's  another  old  'un  in  here !"      Tope  announces 
it  to  the  Dean  as  an  established  discover}^. 

In  a  suit  of  coarse  flannel  with  horn  buttons,  a  yellow  necker- 
chief with  draggled  ends,  an  old  hat  more  russet-colored  than, 
black,  and  laced  boots  of  the  hue  of  his  stony  calling,  Durdles 
leads  a  hazy,  gipsy  sort  of  life,  carr;-jng  his  dinner  about  with 
him  in  a  small  bundle,  and  sitting  on  all  manner  of  tombstones  to 
dine.  This  dinner  of  Durdles's  has  become  quite  a  Cloisterham 
institution :  not  only  because  of  his  never  appearing  in  publio 
without  it,  but  because  of  its  having  been,  on  certain  renowned 
occasions,  taken  into  custody  along  with  Durdles  (as  drunk  and 
incapable),  and  exhibited  before  the  Bench  of  Justices  at  the  Town 


"26  THE   MYSTERY   OF    EDWIN   DROOD. 

TIall.  These  occasions,  liowever,  have  been  few  and  far  apart: 
Dnrdles  being  as  seldom  drunk  as  sober.  For  the  rest,  he  is  an 
old  bachelor,  and  he  lives  in  a  little  antiquated  hole  of  a  house 
that  was  never  finished :  supposed  to  be  built,  so  far,  of  stones 
stolen  from  the  city  wall.  To  this  abode  there  is  an  approach, 
ankle-deep  in  stone  chips,  resembling  a  petrified  grove  of  tomb- 
stones, urns,  draperies,  and  broken  columns,  in  all  stages  of  sculp- 
ture. Herein,  two  journeymen  incessantly  chip,  while  other  two 
journeymen,  who  face  each  other,  incessantly  saw  stone ;  dipping 
as  regularly  in  and  out  of  their  sheltering  sentry-boxes,  as  if 
they  were  mechanical  figures  emblematical  of  Time  and  Death. 

To  Durdles,  when  he  has  consumed  his  glass  of  port,  Mr.  Sapsea 
•entrusts  that  precious  effort  of  his  Muse.  Durdles  unfeelingly  takes 
out  his  two-foot  rule,  and  measures  the  lines  calmly,  alloying  them 
with  stone-2:rit. 

"  This  is  for  the  monument,  is  it,  Mr.  Sapsea  ?" 

"  The  Inscription.  Yes."  Mr.  Sapsea  waits  for  its  efi'ect  on  a 
common  mind. 

"  It'll  come  in  to  a  eighth  of  a  inch,"  sajs  Durdles.  "  Your 
servant,  Mr.  Jasper.     Hope  I  see  you  well." 

"  How  are  you,  Durdles  ?" 

"  I've  got  a  touch  of  the  Tombatism  on  me,  Mr.  Jasper,  but  that 
I  must  expect." 

"  You  mean  the  Rheumatism,"  says  Sapsea,  in  a  sharp  tone.  (He 
is  nettled  by  having  his  composition  so  mechanically  received.) 

"No,  I  don't.  I  mean,  Mr.  Sapsea,  the  Tombatism.  It's 
another  sort  from  Eheumatism.  Mr.  Jasper  knows  what  Durdles 
means.  You  get  among  them  Tombs  afore  it's  well  light  on  a 
winter  morning,  and  keep  on,  as  the  Catechism  says,  a-walking  in 
the  same  all  the  days  of  your  life,  and  you'll  know  what  Durdles 


means." 


"  It  is  a  bitter  cold  place,"  Mr.  Jasper  assents,  with  an  antipa- 
thetic shiver. 

"  And  if  it's  bitter  cold  for  you,  up  in  the  chancel,  with  a  lot  of 
live  breath  smoking  out  about  you,  what  the  bitterness  is  to 
Durdles,  down  in  the  crypt  among  the  earthy  damps  there,  and 
the  dead  breath  of  the  old  'uns,"  returns  that  individual,  "  Durdles 
leaves  you  to  judge. — Is  this  to  be  put  in  hand  at  once,  Mr. 
Sapsea  ?" 

Mr.  Sapsea,  with  an  Author's  anxiety  to  rush  into  publication, 
replies  that  it  cannot  be  out  of  hand  too  soon. 

"  You  had  better  let  me  have  the  key,  then,"  says  Durdles. 

"  Why,  man,  it  is  not  to  be  put  inside  the  monument  I" 

"  Durdles  knows  where  it's  to  bo  put,  jMr.  Sapsea  ;  no  man 
better.  Ask  'ere  a  man  in  Cloisterham  wi  ether  Durdles  knows 
his  work." 

Mr.  Sapsea  rises,  takes  a  key  from  a  drawer,  unlocks  an' iron 
safe  let  into  the  wall,  and  takes  from  it  another  key. 

"  When  Durdles  puts  a  touch  or  a  finish  upon  his  work,  no 
matter  where,  inside  or  outside,  Durdles  likes  to  look  at  his  work 
all  round,  and  see  that  his  work  is  a  doing  him  credit,"  Durdles 
explains,  doggedly. 


MR.    SAPSEA.  27 

Tlie  key  proffered  him  by  tlie  bereaved  widower  being  a  large 
one,  lie  slips  his  two-foot  rule  into  a  side  pocket  of  his  flannel 
trousers  made  for  it,  and  deliberately  opens  his  flannel  coat,  and 
opens  the  month  of  a  large  breast-pocket  within  it  before  taking 
the  key  to  place  in  that  repository. 

"  Why,  Durdles  !"  exclaims  Jasper,  looking  on  amused.  "  You 
•are  undermined  with  pockets !" 

"  And  I  carries  weight  in  'em  too,  Mr.  Jasper.  Feel  those  ;" 
producing  two  other  large  keys. 

"  Hand  me  Mr.  Sapsea's  likewise.  Surely  this  is  the  heaviest 
of  the  three." 

"  You'll  find  'em  much  of  a  muchness,  I  expect,"  says  Durdles. 
"  They  all  belong  to  monuments.  They  all  open  Durdles's  work. 
Durdles  keeps  the  keys  of  his  work  mostly.  Not  that  they're  much 
used." 

"  By  the  bye,"  it  comes  into  Jasper's  mind  to  say,  as  he  idly 
oxamines  the  keys ;  "  I  have  been  going  to  ask  you,  many  a  day, 
and  have  always  forgotten.  You  know  they  sometimes  call  you 
Stony  Durdles,  don't  you  ?" 

"  Cloisterham  knows  me  as  Durdles,  Mr.  Jasper." 

"  I  am  aware  of  that,  of  course.     But  the  boys  sometimes " 

"  Oh  !      If  you  mind  them  young  Imps  of  bo3"s "    Durdles 

l^ruffly  interrupts. 

"  I  don't  mind  them,  any  more  than  you  do.  But  there  was  a 
discussion  the  other  day  among  the  Choir,  whether  Stony  stood 
for  Tony ;"  clinking  one  key  against  another. 

("  Take  care  of  the  wards,  Mr.  Jasper.") 

"  Or  whether  Stony  stood  for  Stephen  ;"  clinking  with  a  change 
of'keys. 

("  You  can't  make  a  pitch-pipe  of  'em,  Mr.  Jasper.") 

"  Or  whether  the  name  comes  from  your  trade.  How  stands 
the  fact  ?" 

Mr.  Jasper  weighs  the  three  keys  in  his  hand,  lifts  his  head 
from  his  idly  stooping  attitude  over  the  fire,  and  delivers  the  keys 
to  Durdles  with  an  ingenuous  and  friendly  face. 

But  the  stony  one  is  a  gruff  one  likewise,  and  that  hazy  state 
of  his  is  always  an  uncertain  state,  highly  conscious  of  its  dignity, 
and  prone  to  take  offence.  He  drops  his  two  keys  back  into  his 
pocket  one  by  one,  and  buttons  them  up ;  he  takes  his  dinner- 
bundle  from  the  chair-back  on  which  he  hung  it  when  he  came  in ; 
he  distributes  the  weight  he  carries,  by  tying  the  third  key  up  in 
it,  as  though  he  were  an  Ostrich,  and  liked  to  dine  off  cold  iron  ;  and 
he  gets  out  of  the  room,  deigning  no  word  of  answer. 

Mr.  Sapsea  then  proposes  a  hit  at  backgammon,  which,  seasoned 
with  his  own  improving  conversation,  and  terminating  in  a  supper 
of  cold  roast  beef  and  salad,  beguiles  the  golden  evening  until 
pretty  lat^.  Mr,  Sapsea's  wisdom  being,  in  its  delivery  to  mortals, 
rather  of  the  diffuse  than  the  epigrammatic  order,  is  by  no  means 
■expended  even  then ;  but  his  visitor  intimates  that  he  will  come 
back  for  more  of  the  precious  commodity  on  future  occasions,  and 
Mr.  Sapsea  lets  him  off  for  the  present,  to  ponder  on  the  instal- 
ment he  carries  away. 


2b  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

CHAPTER  Y. 

MR.    DURDLES    AND   FRIEND. 

John  Jasper,  on  his  way  home  through  the  Close,  is  brought  to  a 
standstill  by  the  spectacle  of  Stony  Dnrdles,  dinner-bundle  and 
all,  leaning  his  back  against  the  iron  railing  of  the  burial-ground 
enclosing  it  from  the  old  cloister-arches ;  and  a  hideous  small 
boy  in  rags  flinging  stones  at  him  as  a  well-defined  mark  in  the 
moonlight.  Sometimes  the  stones  hit  him,  and  sometimes  they 
miss  him,  but  Durdles  seems  indifferent  to  either  fortune.  The 
hideous  small  boy,  on  the  contrary,  whenever  he  hits  Durdles, 
blows  a  whistle  of  triumph  through  a  jagged  gap  convenient  for 
the  purjDose,  in  the  front  of  his  mouth,  where  half  his  teeth  are 
wanting  ;  and  whenever  he  misses  him,  yelps  out  "  Mulled  agin  !'^ 
and  tries  to  atone  for  the  failure  by  taking  a  more  correct  and 
vicious  aim. 

"  What  are  you  doing  to  the  man?"  demands  Jasper,  stepping 
out  into  the  moonlight  from  the  shade. 

"  Making  a  cock-shy  of  him,"  replies  the  hideous  small  boy. 

"  Give  me  those  stones  in  your  hand." 

"  Yes,  I'll  give  'em  jou  down  your  throat,  if  you  come  a-ketching 
hold  of  me,"  saj^s  the  small  boy,  shaking  himself  loose,  and  backing. 
"I'll  smash  your  eye,  if  you  don't  look  out !" 

"  Baby-Devil  that  3'ou  are,  what  has  the  man  done  to  you  ?" 

"  He  won't  go  home." 

"  What  is  that  to  you  ?" 

"  He  gives  me  a  'apenny  to  pelt  him  home  if  I  ketches  him  out 
too  late,"  says  the  boy.  And  then  chants,  like  a  little  savage^, 
half  stumbling  and  half  dancing  among  the  rags  and  laces  of  his 
dilapidated  boots  : 

"  Widdy  widdy  wen  ! 
I — ket — cbes — Im — out — ar — ter — ten, 
Widdy  widdy  wy ! 

Tiien — E — don't — go — then — I— sliy — 
Widily  Widdy  Wake-cock  warning  !" 

— with  a  comprehensive  sweep  on  the  last  word,  and  one  more 
delivery  at  Durdles. 

This  would  seem  to  be  a  poetical  note  of  preparation,  agreed 
upon,  as  a  caution  to  Durdles  to  stand  clear  if  he  can,  or  to  betake 
himself  homeward. 

John  Jasper  invites  the  boy  with  a  beck  of  his  head  to  follow" 
him  (feeling  it  hopeless  to  drag  him,  or  coax  him)  and  crosses  to  the 
iron  railing  where  the  Stony  (and  stoned)  One  is  profoundly 
meditating. 

"  Do  you  know  this  thing,  this  cJiild  ?"  asks  Jasper,  at  a  loss  for 
a  word  that  will  define  this  tiling. 

"•  Deputy,"  says  Durdles,  Avitli  a  nod. 

"  Is  that  it's — his — name?" 

"  Deputy,"  assents  Durdles. 

"  I'm  inan-servant  up  at  the  Travellers'  Twopenny  in  Gas 
Works    Gardiug,"    this    thing    explains.      "  All   us    man-servantsr 


ME.    DURDLES   AND   FRIEND.  29 

at  Travellers  Lodgings  is  named  Deputy.  When  we're  chock 
full  and  the  Travellers  is  all  a-bed  I  corae  out  for  my  'elth."  Then 
withdrawing  into  the  road,  and  taking  aim,  he  resumes ; 

"  Widdy  Widdy  wen  ! 
I — ket — ches — Im— out — ar — ter — " 

"  Hold  your  hand,"  cries  Jasper,  "  and  don't  throw  while  I 
stand  so  near  him,  or  I'll  kill  you  !  Come,  Durdles ;  let  me  walk 
home  with  you  to-night.     Shall  I  carry  your  bundle?" 

"  Not  on  any  account,"  replies  Durdles,  adjusting  it.  "  Durdles 
was  making  his  reflections  here  when  you  come  up,  sir,  surrounded 
by  his  works,  like  a  poplar  Author. — Your  own  brother-in-law ;" 
introducing  a  sarcophagus  within  the  railing,  white  and  cold  in 
the  moonlight.  "Mrs.  Sapsea;"  introducing  the  monument  of 
that  devoted  wife.  "  Late  Licumbent ;"  introducing  the  Eeverend 
Gentleman's  broken  column.  "  Departed  Assessed  Taxes  ;"  intro- 
ducing a  vase  and  towel,  standing  on  what  might  represent  the 
-cake  of  soap.  "  Former  pastrycook  and  muffin-maker,  much  re- 
spected ;"  introducing  gravestone.  "  All  safe  and  sound  here,  sir, 
and  all  Durdles's  work !  Of  the  common  folk  that  is  merely  bundled 
up  in  turf  and  brambles,  the  less  said,  the  better.  A  poor  lot,  soon 
forgot." 

"  This  creature,  Deputy,  is  behind  us,"  says  Jasper,  looking  back. 
"*  Is  he  to  follow  us  ?" 

The  relations  between  Durdles  and  Deputy  are  of  a  capricious 
kind;  for,  on  Durdles's  turning  himself  about  with  the  slow  gravity 
'of  beery  soddenness.  Deputy  makes  a  j)retty  wide  circuit  into  the 
Toad  and  stands  on  the  defensive. 

"  You  never  cried  Widdy  Warning  before  you  begun  to-night," 
says  Durdles,  unexpectedly  reminded  of,  or  imagining,  an  injury. 

"  Yer  lie,  I  did,"  says  Deputy,  in  his  only  form  of  polite  con- 
"tradiction. 

"  Own  brother,  sir,"  observes  Durdles,  turning  himself  about 
.again,  and  as  unexpectedly  forgetting  his  offence  as  he  had  recalled 
■or  conceived  it ;  "  own  brother  to  Peter  the  Wild  Boy !  But  I 
gave  him  an  object  in  life." 

"  At  which  he  takes  aim  ?"  Mr.  Jasper  suggests. 

"  That's  it,  sir,"  returns  Durdles,  quite  satisfied ;  "  at  which  lie 
takes  aim.  I  took  him  in  hand  and  gave  him  an  object.  What 
was  he  before  ?  A  destroyer.  A\  hat  work  did  he  do  ?  Nothing 
but  destruction.  What  did  he  earn  by  it?  Short  terms  in  Clois- 
terham  Jail.  Not  a  person,  not  a  piece  of  propert}^  not  a  winder, 
not  a  horse,  nor  a  dog,  nor  a  cat,  nor  a  bird,  nor  a  fowl,  nor  a  pig, 
put  what  he  stoned,  for  Avant  of  an  enlightened  object.  I  put  that 
enlightened  object  before  him,  and  now  he  can  turn  his  honest  half- 
penny by  the  three  penn'orth  a  week." 

"  I  wonder  he  has  no  competitors." 

"  He  has  plenty,  Mr.  Jasper,  but  he  stones  'em  all  away.  Now, 
1  don't  know  what  this  scheme  of  mine  comes  to,"  pursues 
Durdles,  considering  about  it  with  the  same  sodden  gravity ;  '*  I 
don't  know  what  you  may  precisely  call  it.  It  ain't  a  sort  of  a — 
scheme  of  a — National  Education  ?" 


so  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

"  I  sliOTild  say  not,"  replies  Jasper. 

"  I  should  say  not,"  assents  Durdles ;  "  then  we  won't  try  to 
o;ive  it  a  name." 

"  lie  still  keeps  behind  ns/'  repeats  Jasper,  looking  over  his 
shonkLer ;  "is  he  to  follow  us ?" 

"  We  can't  help  going  round  by  the  Travellers'  Twopenny,  if 
we  go  the  short  way,  which  is  the  back  way,"  Durdles  answers, 
"  and  we'll  drop  him  there." 

So  they  go  on;  Deputy,  as  a  rear  rank  of  one,  taking  open 
order,  and  invading  the  silence  of  the  hour  and  place  by  stoning 
every  wall,  post,  pillar,  and  other  inanimate  object,  by  the 
deserted  way. 

"Is  there  anything  new  down  in  the  crypt,  Durdles?"  asks 
John  Jasper. 

"  Anything  old,  I  think  you  mean,"  growls  Durdles.  "It  ani't 
a  spot  for  novelty." 

"  Any  new  discovery  on  your  part,  I  meant." 

"  There's  a  old  'un  under  the  seventh  pillar  on  the  left  as  you  go 
down  the  broken  steps  of  the  little  underground  chapel  as  formerly 
was ;  I  make  him  out  (so  fur  as  I've  made  him  out  yet)  to  be  one 
of  them  old  'uns  with  a  crook.  To  judge  from  the  size  of  the  pas- 
sages in  the  walls,  and  of  the  steps  and  doors,  by  which  they  come 
and  went,  them  crooks  must  have  been  a  good  deal  in  the  way  of 
the  old  'uns !  Two  on  'em  meeting  promiscuous  must  have  hitched 
one  another  by  the  mitre,  pretty  often,  I  should  say." 

Without  any  endeavour  to  correct  the  literality  of  this  opinion, 
Jasper  surveys  his  com^oanion — covered  from  head  to  foot  with  old 
mortar,  lime,  and  stone  grit — as  though  he,  Jasper,  were  getting 
imbued  with  a  romantic  interest  in  his  weird  life. 

"  Yours  is  a  curious  existence." 

Without  furnishing  the  least  clue  to  the  question,  whether  he 
receives  this  as  a  compliment  or  as  quite  the  reverse,  Durdles 
gruffly  answers  :  "  Yours  is  another." 

"Well!  Inasmuch  as  my  lot  is  cast  in  the  same  old  earthy, 
chilly,  never-changing  place,  Yes.  But  there  is  much  more  mystery 
and  interest  in  your  connexion  with  the  Cathedral  than  in  mine. 
Indeed,  I  am  beginning  to  have  some  idea  of  asking  you  to  take 
me  on  as  a  sort  of  student,  or  free  'prentice,  under  you,  and  to 
let  me  go  about  with  you  sometimes,  and  see  some  of  these  odd 
nooks  in  which  you  pass  your  days." 

The  Stony  One  replies,  in  a  general  way.  All  right.  Everybody 
knows  where  to  find  Durdles,  when  he's  wanted.  Which,  if  not 
strictly  true,  is  approximately  so,  if  taken  to  express  that  Durdles 
may  always  be  found  in  a  state  of  vagabondage  somewhere. 

"  What  I  dwell  upon  most,"  says  Jasper,  pursuing  his  subject  of 
romantic  interest,  "  is  the  remarkable  accuracj^  with  which  you 
would  seem  to  find  out  where  people  are  buried. — AVhat  is  the 
matter  ?     That  bundle  is  in  your  way ;  let  me  hold  it." 

Durdles  has  stopped  and  backed  a  little  (Deputy,  attentive  to  all 
his  movements,  immediately  skirmishing  into  the  road)  and  was 
looking  about  for  some  lodge  or  corner  to  place  his  bundle  OJiy 
when  thus  relieved  of  it. 


ME.   DUEDLES    AND   FRIEND.  31 

"  Just  you  give  nie  my  liammer  out  of  tliat,"  says  Durdles,  "  and 
I'll  show  you." 

Clink,  clink.     And  his  hammer  is  handed  him. 

"  Now,  lookee  here.  You  pitch  your  note,  don't  you,  Mr. 
Jasper  ?" 

"  Yes." 

*'  So  I  sound  for  mine.  I  take  my  hammer,  and  I  tap."  (Here  he 
strikes  the  pavement,  and  the  attentive  Deputy  skirmishes  at  a 
rather  wider  range,  as  supposing  that  his  head  may  he  in  requisi- 
tion.) "  I  tap,  tap,  tap.  Solid !  I  go  on  tapping.  Solid  still ! 
Tap  again.  Holloa!  Hollow!  Tap  again,  persevering.  Solid 
in  hollow !  Tap,  tap,  tap,  to  try  it  better.  Solid  in  hollow  ;  and 
inside  solid,  hollow  again!  There  you  are!  Old  'un  crumbled 
away  in  stone  coffin,  in  vault !" 

"  Astonishing !" 

"  I  have  even  done  this,"  says  Durdles,  drawing  out  his  two- 
foot  rule,  (DejDuty  meanwhile  skirmishing  nearer,  as  suspecting 
that  Treasure  may  be  about  to  be  discovered,  which  may  somehow 
lead  to  his  own  enrichment,  and  the  delicious  treat  of  the  dis- 
coverers being  hanged  by  the  neck,  on  his  evidence,  until  they  are 
dead).  "  Say  that  hammer  of  mine's  a  wall — my  work.  Two ; 
four ;  and  two  is  six,"  measuring  on  the  pavement.  "  Six  foot 
inside  that  wall  is  Mrs.  Sapsea." 

"Not  really  Mrs.  Sapsea?" 

"Say  Mrs.  Sapsea.  Her  wall's  thicker,  but  say  Mrs.  Sapsea. 
Durdles  taps  .that  wall  represented  by  that  hammer,  and  says, 
after  good  sounding  :  '  Something  betwixt  us  !'  Sure  enough,  some 
rubbish  has  been  left  in  that  same  six  foot  space  by  Durdles's  men  !" 

Jasper  opines  that  such  accuracy  "  is  a  gift." 

"I  wouldn't  have  it  at  a  gift,"  returns  Durdles,  by  no  means 
receiving  the  observation  in  good  part.  "  I  worked  it  out  for 
myself.  Durdles  comes  by  Ms  knowledge  through  grubbing  deep 
for  it,  and  having  it  up  by  the  roots  when  it  don't  want  to 
come. — Halloa  you  Deputy  !" 

"  Widdy !"  is  Deputy's  shrill  response,  standing  off  again. 

"  Catch  that  ha'penny.  And  don't  let  me  see  any  more  of  you 
to-night,  after  we  come  to  the  Travellers'  Twopenny." 

"  Warning  !"  returns  Deputy,  having  caught  the  halfpenny,  and 
appearing  hj  this  mystic  word  to  express  his  assent  to  the 
arrangement. 

They  have  but  to  cross  what  was  once  the  vineyard,  belonging 
to  what  was  once  the  Monastery,  to  come  into  the  narrow  back 
lane  wherein  stands  the  crazy  wooden  house  of  two  low  stories- 
currently  known  as  the  Travellers'  Twopennj^ : — a  house  all 
warped  and  distorted,  like  the  morals  of  the  travellers,  with  scant 
remains  of  a  lattice- work  porch  over  the  door,  and  also  of  a  rustic 
fence  before  its  stamped-out  garden ;  by  reason  of  the  travellers 
being,  so  bound  to  the  premises  by  a  tender  sentiment  (or  so  fond 
of  having  a  fire  by  the  roadside  in  the  course  of  the  day),  that 
they  can  never  be  persuaded  or  threatened  into  departure,  without 
violently  possessing  themselves  of  some  wooden  fjrget-me-not,  and 
\)earing  it  off. 


S2  THE   MYSTKKY   OF   Kl^WlN  TRiVP. 

Tho  somHAnoo  of  an  inn  is  attonipteil  to  W  givoix  to  tliia 
vivtohoii  plaoo  l\v  fra4::monts  of  conventional  iwl  ourt^uning  in 
tho  >viudo\\'^  which  ra^rs  aiv  made  mnddily  ti-mismivnt  in  the 
<\iicht-so^5«\m  bv  fcvHo  hi^ht^  of  rush  or  o^^tton  dip  Inirninir  dnllv 
in  the  oU^^50  air  of  the  insivU\  As  Durdlos  and  »lasjx>r  o«.Mne 
luwr.  thov  aiv  addivssovl  by  an  insoriKxi  yv^^vr  lantern  over  the 
lUx^r.  Slating  forth  the  pnrjvrt  of  the  honse.  They  are  alsv>  ad- 
divsftsoil  bv  ^>me  half-<i<^\»>n  other  hide^nis  small  lx>v« — whether 
tvrotxn\ny  Uxlgoi'Si  or  followers  or  hangx>rsHon  of  snoh,  who  know«  ! 
—who,  as  if  attn^ctixl  by  s^^ne  oarrion-^vnt  of  IVpnty  in  the  air, 
^tart  into  the  nuxmlightv  a^  viiltnu^^  n\ight  gather  in  the  desert,, 
^nd  inst^^ntlv  fivll  to  stoning  him  and  one  another. 

"  iStop,  vou  vonug  brntos,"  cries  Ja^jvr,  angrilv,  **  and  let  ns  go 

This  ivnionstranoe  Ixnng  reooive<l  with  yells  and  tiyi ng  stones 
aooinxling  to  a  cnstom  of  late  yi>ars  o^mifortn^bly  e^t^U^lishoil  among 
the  |X^lice  ivgtilations  of  onr  Knglish  commnnities>  where  Christians 
aiv  stone^l  on  all  sides,  a$  if  the  da\-s  of  Saint  Stephen  were  re- 
vivoil,  PnrdhNS  ivmarks  of  the  yonng  sAvagv^.  with  some  }xnnt„ 
that  "  they  ha\x>n't  got  an  objeot>"  and  kv^ds  the  w^y  down  the 
Unc. 

At  the  corner  of  the  lanOs  da^yx^r.  hotly  onragixl,  cho^^ks  his 
oommi\ion  and  Ux>ks  Ivack,  All  is  silent^  Xext  moment>  a  stone 
oc^mmg  rattling  at  his  hats  And  a  distant  yell  of  "  \Vake-C\x^k ! 
Warning  !^^  folio  we^l  bv  a  crow,  a«  froni  sc^me  infernally -ha  tche^i 
Chanticleer,  apprising  him  nnder  whose  victorions  lire  he  staiuls, 
he  t\irns  the  ov^rner  into  safety,  aiid  t^^ke^  Pnnlles  home :  Dnrdles 
sttimbling  among  the  litter  of  his  stony  yard  a^  if  he  were  g^nng 
to  tnrn  hc\*d  fo^en1^^st  into  vMie  of  the  ^mtinisheil  toml^s. 

dv^hn  damper  retnrns  by  aiiother  way  to  his  g-ate  honse,  and 
<^ntering  ssottly  with  his  key.  tinds  his  fire  still  bnrning.  He 
takes  from  a  locke^l  pre^?s.  a  |xv>nliar-hx">king  piw  which  he  tills — 
Init  not  with  tol\*cco — and,  having  adjnsUxi  tne  contents  of  tho 
K>wl,  \x>rv  cAivfnllv,  with  a  little  instrument^  ascends  ai\  ii\ner 
st^^iroa^^  of  only  a  few  stoy^s,  hNading  to  two  r^xMns,  One  of  the^^ 
is  his  oxm  sleeping  ohamlx^r ;  the  other,  is  his  nephew's.  There  is 
*  light  in  each. 

His  iiephew  lies  aslee]i\  oalm  and  nntn>nbletl.  *Tolin  Ja^yx^r 
stands  hx^king  dowi\  njx^n  him,  his  nnlighte^i  pijx?  in  his  hand, 
for  some  time^  with  a  tixe^l  and  deep  attention.  Then,  hush- 
ing his  f<x'>tste|%s.  he  yv;i:j;ses  to  his  own  roi^^m,  lights  his  pijXN  and 
delivei-s  himself  to  the  Sixx-tres  it  invokes  at  midnights 


TJIK    MV'HTICIIY    OIC    KDWIN    1>IW><)I>.  88 

CJiAi"i'i':it  VI. 

I'jin.Arrj'nuoi'v   /n   mknoii  canon  (;okn'kii. 

TifK  Ff<iv«ir«ri(|  Scpl.iiriiiH  CfiM)>iU'l<lo  ('Hopfij/iiiH,  h'-ctuiMO  hIx  lill.lo 
l)r<)Minr  ( /riM|»nrl<l<;H  Ixiloic  liitn  wcnl.  oul,,  omo  l»y  ono,  uh  ili'y  won; 
Itoni,  lil<n  nix  vvfiik  lil,l,lo  niHlilij.rli(H,  nn  lli»;y  won?  li^/^liicM;,  liavlno; 
lirolciM  1,1m  l.liiri  rriorriifi;';  ino  im-im'  rioiMf'-rfuuri  VV<'ir  vvilli  lin 
niriiii,!)!!)  Iioid,  iriin;li  lo  f,h(5  in vif/orafJon  of  }iiM  IVumm;,  wan  nf;w 
jiHHiHlJii|^  liiM  rir(;iiln,l,iofi  l>y  l»f»xin|4  uf,  a  lookin^A^luMH  wifJi  ^j^rctd 
H('V)t\('A)  ari'l  |ir(»w<iMH.  A  I'n'Mfi  ii,ij<l  lutnltliy  porfraif,  ilio  I'x^kin^- 
f;laHH  [)r'(!M«)iil,(!(l  ol  Hm;  If,«)V«;»<iii'l  H<'(»f/MniiH,  fiiiniij)^  an<l  »lo()j,'iiij/^ 
vvilJi  (lio  iil,iri(»Hl<  JirU'tiliK-HH,  fui<l  liil,l,inj';  oul,  IVoni  IIim  (ili'/ol'I'-.r 
vvilli  l,lio  nhiioHi  Hlrai^';lil.ri«'-KM,  wliilc  liiM  ro.diani,  r<;al.tjr«;H  U;(;iin,i\ 
willi  idiioronoo,  n,ii'l  (lol'l,  ln%'ul.*'l  honcvoloiioo  l)«;am<;(|  IVojn  IiJh 
l;ox  iti}/;  ij)(tv<:H. 

II,  wa.H  Hf!M,rr;c,l  y  luoak  liiMf,  t.iirio  ye,!,,  for  IMrn,  ^/riH|>arl<i<'  moUx-r, 
iiol,  wiln,  ol'  l,li()  \i<,v<-,nu\(\  M'!|»liiriUH  wan  only  jnfil,  down,  a,n<l 
wailing  lor  f,lio  urn.  In<l<!»<l,  l,lio  I'«!V<!n!fi<l  S<--|)l,iniuM  lofX  off  u,l 
IJiIh  v«'ry  monxnl,  lo  l,al<o  Mio  j)n;l,f,y  ol<l  iafly'n  <;fil,orin^  Jjino 
l»()iw«;oti  liJH  hoxinj^' j^lovcH  a,n«l  I'.inc,  il.  IIji,vin^  dorio  ho  wiUi 
i«-.n<l<;rn<-HH,  l,lio  Ifovor«;n<l  H<-|»l.i»nuM  l,iirno'l  lo  ajniin,  r;r)Unl,<;ring 
wiUi  liiH  hill,,  an<l  pullinp';  in    liin  »i(_';lii,  in  a  l,r«;fri<;/i'louH  luanrM-.r. 

"  I  H»i,y,  <!V<'-ry  morning.';  of  my  lif'o,  Uial,  you'll  «lo  il,  at  lanl,,  H'!j>l,/' 
roitia,rl<o<l  Uio  old  htdy,  lool< inj/;  on  ;   "  an«i  ho  you  will." 

"  Do  wlial,,  Ma  doar?" 

"  I'rcalt  I  In-,  pi(5r-j.';laHH,  or  Ijurnf,  a  l>Iood  v<;hh<!1." 

*' NciiUior,    ploaHo  (jiod,    -Ma  d*;a».      Ihjo'n    wind,   Ma.      I/ook  af, 

il.iH!" 

In  a,  concludiiiK  round  of  ^m<  ji,I,  Hov^r  il,y,  llio  K<;v<;r<;nd  S'ipliinUM 
adiuiniHl,«;»od  and  <Mr,(jjM;d  all  Hortn  ol' ptiniHljuicnt,,  and  woun<l  uj) 
l)y  j2;<;il,in^'  llio  old  lady'n  f;ap  into  (Jliancory  HUf;]»  in  ilio  i<;f;}inifal 
t(?rni  MHJid  in  H(;i<',rilifif;  <!in;l<'H  hy  IIk;  l»;arnod  in  llio  Nohio  Art — 
wiili  a  li}.';lil,n(!HH  of  lou'Ji  lli;i,l,  hardly  Hl.irr<;d  Uio  ligliicnf/  lav<;nd(;r 
or  clujrry  rilcind  on  il.  ,\Ia{^r)aniniouHly  rol';aHinj.^  IIkj  d<;r<;ai<;d, 
JuhI,  in  t,inio  t,o  ^<d,  liiH  ^Iovoh  into  a  draw<!r  n,nd  f'>;I;.';n  lo  ho 
lookirijjj;  <M»I,  of  window  in  a  f;onf,r;fr)p|}i,ii vo  nl.ato  of*  nii;id  wli'.n  a 
H<'.rvant,  onf,<-.n;<l,  l.lic  I'ovorond  S<;|d,irnuH  f,lion  j.nivo  p|jj,(;<;  t,o  t,l;»;  urn 
and  oilior  proparalionn  for  hroal<f"aHl,.  'ri)<;Hor;ofnpl<;f,od,  and  ilio  l,wo 
alono  a^ain,  il,  wan  pl<;aHani  to  Hco  (or  would  liavo  \n',i;u,  il  l.lirjro 
liad  Ikjou  any  ono  lo  H0«  it,  wliioli  tfioro  nov<;r  waH^,  tlio  old  lady 
Hlatidin^  lo  Hay  llio  Lord'n  I'rayor  aloud,  and  hor  Hon,  Minor 
('anon  TiovortlioN;HH,  Hiandinji;  wiUi  honi,  lioad  to  li<;ar  it,  ho  hoin^ 
■within  fiv(;  yoarH  of  forty  :  jniif;h  an  h<;  had  ntood  to  hoaj  tljo 
Hatru;  wordw  from  tho  Ha/no  lipH  wh<;n  ho  waH  within  fivo  i/ionUiH  oi 
four. 

What  iH  prottior  than  an  f;l<i  lad y  -  cxf;(;f)t  a  young  lady  whon 
her  oyoH  aro  l^rip^ht,  whon  hor  fljiuro  Ih  trim  and  <;onipaot,  whon 
hor  faco  in  choorful  and  oalm,  whon  hor  droHH  in  an  tlio  droHH  of  a 
china  KliopliordoHH :  h<j  dainty  in  itH  colorH,  ho  individually  aKHor<fi«l 
to    liorHoif,    BO    neatly    moulded    on     her  ?       Nothifjg    in    prettier, 

ij 


34  THE   MYSTEEY   OF   EDWIN   DKOOD. 

thoiiglit  tlie  good  Minor  Canon  frequently,  when  taking  liis  seat  at 
table  opposite  his  long-widowed  mother.  Her  thought  at  such 
times  may  be  condensed  into  the  two  words  that  oftenest  did  duty 
together  in  all  her  conversations  :  "  My  Sept !" 

They  v/ere  a  good  pair  to  sit  breakfasting  together  in  Minor 
Canon  Corner,  Cloisterham.  For,  Minor  Canon  Corner  was  a  quiet 
place  in  the  shadow  of  the  Cathedral,  which  the  cawing  of  the 
rooks,  the  echoing  footsteps  of  rare  passers,  the  sound  of  the 
Cathedral  bell,  or  the  roll  of  the  Cathedral  organ,  seemed  to  render 
more  quiet  than  absolute  silence.  Swaggering  fighting  men  had 
had  their  centuries  of  ramping  and  raving  about  IMinor  Canon 
Corner,  and  beaten  serfs  had  had  their  centuries  of  drudging  and 
dying  there,  and  powerful  monks  had  had  their  centuries  of  being 
sometimes  useful  and  sometimes  harmful  there,  and  behold  they 
were  all  gone  out  of  Minor  Canon  Corner,  and  so  much  the  better. 
Perhaps  one  of  the  highest  uses  of  their  ever  having  been  there, 
was,  that  there  might  be  left  behind,  that  blessed  air  of  tranquillity 
which  pervaded  Minor  Canon  Corner,  and  that  serenely  romantic 
state  of  the  mind — productive  for  the  most  part  of  pity  and  forbear- 
ance— which  is  engendered  by  a  sorrowful  story  that  is  all  told,  or 
a  pathetic  play  that  is  plaj^ed  out. 

Eed-brick  walls  harmoniously  toned  down  in  color  by  time, 
strong-rooted  ivy,  latticed  windows,  panelled  rooms,  big  oaken 
beams  in  little  places,  and  stone-walled  gardens  where  annual 
fruit  yet  ripened  upon  monkish  trees,  were  the  principal  sur- 
roundings of  pretty  old  Mrs.  Crisparkle  and  the  Eeverend  Septimus 
as  they  sat  at  breakfast. 

"  And  what.  Ma  dear,"  inquired  the  Minor  Canon,  giving  proof 
of  a  wholesome  and  vigorous  appetite,  "  does  the  letter  say  ?" 

The  pretty  old  lady,  after  reading  it,  had  just  laid  it  down  upon 
the  breakfast-cloth.     She  handed  it  over  to  her  son. 

Now,  the  old  lady  was  exceedingly  proud  of  her  bright  eyes 
being  so  clear  that  she  could  read  writing  without  spectacles. 
Her  son  was  also  so  proud  of  the  circumstance,  and  so  dutifully 
bent  on  her  deriving  the  utmost  possible  gratification  from  it,  that 
he  had  invented  the  pretence  that  he  himself  could  not  read 
writing  without  spectacles.  Therefore  he  now  assumed  a  pair,  of 
grave  and  prodigious  proportions,  which  not  only  seriously  incon- 
venienced his  nose  and  his  breakfast,  but  seriously  impeded  his 
perusal  of  the  letter.  For,  he  had  the  eyes  of  a  microscope  and  a 
telescope  combined,  when  they  were  unassisted. 

"  It's  from  Mr.  Honey  thunder,  of  course,"  said  the  old  lady, 
folding  her  arms. 

"  Of  course,"  assented  her  son.     He  then  lamely  read  on : 

"  Haven  of  Philanthropy, 
"  DfAR  Madam  "  ^^^''"^  Offices,  Loudon,  Wednesdny. 

"  '  I  write  in  the ;'   In  the  what's  this  ?    What  does  he 

write  in  ?" 

"  In  the  chair,"  said  the  old  lady. 

The  Eeverend  Septimus  took  off  his  spectacles,  that  he  might  see 
her  face,  as  he  exclaimed  : 


PHILANTHROPY   IN   MINOR    CANON    CORNER.  35 

"  Wlij^,  what  sliould  lie  write  in  ?" 

"  Bless  me,  bless  me,  Sept,"  returned  tlie  old  lady,  "  you  don't 
see  the  context !     Give  it  back  to  me,  my  dear." 

Glad  to  get  his  spectacles  off  (for  they  always  made  his  e^^es 
water)  her  son  obeyed :  murmuring  that  his  sight  for  reading 
manuscript  got  worse  and  worse  daily. 

"  '  I  write,'  "  his  mother  went  on,  reading  very  perspicuously 
and  precisely,  " '  from  the  chair,  to  Avhich  I  shall  probably  be  con- 
:fined  for  some  hours.'  " 

Septimus  looked  at  the  row  of  chairs  against  the  wall,  with  a 
h.alf-protesting  and  half-appealing  countenance. 

"  '  We  have,'  "  the  old  lady  read  on  with  a  little  extra  emphasis, 
"  *  a  meeting  of  our  Convened  Chief  Composite  Committee  of  Central 
and  District  Philanthropists,  at  our  Head  Haven  as  above ;  and  it 
is  their  unanimous  pleasure  that  I  take  the  chair.'  " 

Septimus  breathed  more  freely,  and  muttered :  "  Oh  !  If  he  comes 
to  that,  let  him." 

"  '  Not  to  lose  a  day's  post,  I  take  the  opportunity  of  a  long 

report  being  read,  denouncing  a  public  miscreant '  " 

"  It  is  a  most  extraordinary  thing,"  interposed  the  gentle  Minor 
Canon,  laying  down  his  knife  and  fork  to  rub  his  ear  in  a  vexed 
manner,  "  that  these  Philanthropists  are  always  denouncing  some- 
body. And  it  is  another  most  extraordinary  thing  that  they  are 
always  so  violently  flush  of  miscreants  !" 

"  '  Denouncing  a  public  miscreant !'  " — the  old  lady  resumed, 
*' '  to  get  our  little  affair  of  business  off  my  mind.  I  have  spoken 
with  my  two  wards,  Neville  and  Helena  Landless,  on  the  subject  of 
their  defective  education,  and  they  give  in  to  the  j)lan  proposed ; 
as  I  should  have  taken  good  care  they  did,  whether  they  liked  it  or 
not.'" 

"  And  it  is  another  most  extraordinary  thing,"  remarked  the 
Minor  Canon  in  the  same  tone  as  before,  "  that  these  Philanthro- 
justs  are  so  given  to  seizing  their  fellow-creatures  by  the  scruff  of 
the  neck,  and  (as  one  may  say)  bumping  them  into  the  paths  of 
peace. — I  beg  your  pardon,  Ma  dear,  for  interrupting." 

"  '  Therefore,  dear  Madam,  you  will  please  prepare  your  son,  the 
Eev.  Mr.  Septimus,  to  expect  Neville  as  an  inmate  to  be  read  with, 
on  Monday  next.  On  the  same  day  Helena  will  accompany  him. 
to  Cloisterham,  to  take  up  her  quarters  at  the  Nuns'  House,  the 
establishment  recommended  by  yourself  and  son  jointly.  Please 
likewise  to  prepare  for  her  reception  and  tuition  there.  The  terms 
in  both  cases  are  understood  to  be  exactly  as  stated  to  me  in 
writing  by  yourself,  when  I  opened  a  correspondence  with  you 
on  this  subject,  after  the  honor  of  being  introduced  to  you  at  your 
sister's  house  in  town  here.  With  compliments  to  the  Eev.  Mr. 
Septimus,  I  am,  Dear  Madam,  Your  affectionate  brother  (In  Phi- 
lanthropy), Luke  Honeythunder.'  " 

"  Well,  Ma,"  said  Septimus,  after  a  little  more  rubbing  of  his 
ear,  "  we  must  try  it.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  we  have 
rooni  for  an  inmate,  and  that  I  have  time  to  bestow  upon  him,  and 
inclination  too.  I  must  confess  to  feeling  rather  glad  that  he  is 
not  Mr.  Honeythunder  himself.     Though  that  seems  wretchedly 

i>  2 


36  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DKOOD. 

prejudiced — does  it  not? — for  I  never  saw  liim.      Is  lie  a  large 
man,  Ma  ?" 

"  I  should  call  him  a  large  man,  my  dear,"  the  old  lady  I'oplied 
after  some  hesitation,  "  but  that  his  voice  is  so  much  larger." 

"  Than  himself?" 

"  Than  anybody." 

"  Hah !"  said  Septimus.  And  finished  his  breakfast  as  if  the 
flavor  of  the  Superior  Family  Souchong,  and  also  of  the  ham  and 
toast  and  egrscs,  were  a  little  on  the  wane. 

Mrs.  Crisparkle's  sister,  another  piece  of  Dresden  china,  and 
matching  her  so  neatly  that  they  would  have  made  a  delightful 
pair  of  ornaments  for  the  two  ends  of  any  capacious  old-fashioned 
chimneypiece,  and  by  right  should  never  have  been  seen  apart,  was 
the  childless  wife  of  a  clergyman  holding  Corporation  preferment 
in  London  City.  Mr.  Honeythunder  in  his  public  character  of 
Professor  of  Philanthropy  had  come  to  know  Mrs.  Crisj)arkle  during 
the  last  re-matching  of  the  china  ornaments  (in  other  words  during 
her  last  annual  visit  to  her  sister),  after  a  public  occasion  of  a  phil- 
anthropic nature,  when  certain  devoted  orphans  of  tender  years 
had  been  glutted  with  plum  buns,  and  jdIuuij)  bumptiousness. 
These  were  all  the  antecedents  known  in  Minor  Canon  Corner 
of  the  coming  pupils. 

"  I  am  sure  jou  will  agree  with  me.  Ma,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,. 
after  thinking  the  matter  over,  "  that  the  first  thing  to  be  done,  is,, 
to  put  these  young  people  as  much  at  their  ease  as  possible. 
There  is  nothing  disinterested  in  the  notion,  because  we  cannot 
be  at  our  ease  with  them  unless  they  are  at  their  ease  with  us. 
Now,  Jasper's  nephew  is  down  here  at  present ;  and  like  takes  to 
like,  and  youth  takes  to  youth.  He  is  a  cordial  young  fellow,  and 
we  will  have  him  to  meet  the  brother  and  sister  at  dinner.  That's 
three.  We  can't  think  of  asking  him,  without  asking  Jasper. 
That's  four.  Add  Miss  Twinkleton  and  the  fairy  bride  that 
is  to  be,  and  that's  six.  Add  our  two  selves,  and  that's  eight.- 
AVould  eight  at  a  friendly  dinner  at  all  put  you  out.  Ma  ?" 

"  Nine  would,  Sept,"  returned  the  old  lady,  visibly  nervous. 

"  My  dear  Ma,  I  particularize  eight." 

*'  The  exact  size  of  the  table  and  the  room,  my  dear." 

So  it  was  settled  that  way ;  and  when  Mr.  Crisparkle  called 
with  his  mother  upon  Miss  Twinkleton,  to  arrange  for  the  recep- 
tion of  Miss  Helena  Landless  at  the  Nuns'  House,  the  two  other 
invitations  having  reference  to  that  establishment  were  proffered 
and  accepted.  Miss  Twinkleton  did,  indeed,  glance  at  the  globes, 
as  regretting  that  they  were  not  formed  to  be  taken  out  into 
society ;  but  became  reconciled  to  leaving  them  behind.  Instruc- 
tions were  then  despatched  to  the  Philanthropist  for  the  departure 
and  arrival,  in  good  time  for  dinner,  of  Mr.  Neville  and  Miss 
Helena ;  and  stock  for  soup  became  fragrant  in  the  air  of  Minor 
Canon  Corner. 

In  those  days  there  was  no  railway  to  Cloisterham,  and  Mr.. 
Sapsea  said  there  never  would  be.  Mr.  Sapsea  said  more ;  he  said 
there  never  should  be.  And  yet,  marvellous  to  consider,  it'  has 
come  to  pass,  in  these  days,  that  Express  Trains  don't  think  Clois- 


PHILANTHROPY   IN   MINOR    CANON   CORNER.  37 

terliam  worth  stopping  at,  but  yell  and  whirl  through  it  on  their 
larger  errands,  casting  the  dust  o£f  their  wheels  as  a  testimony 
■against  its  insignificance.  Some  remote  fragment  of  Main  Line 
to  somewhere  else,  there  was,  which  was  going  to  ruin  the  Money 
Market  if  it  failed,  and  Church  and  State  if  it  succeeded,  and  (of 
course),  the  Constitution,  whether  or  no  ;  but  even  that  had  already 
«o  unsettled  Cloisterham  traffic,  that  the  traffic,  deserting  the  high 
Toad,  came  sneaking  in  from  an  unprecedented  part  of  the  country 
by  a  back  stable-way,  for  many  years  labelled  at  the  corner  : 
"  Beware  of  the  Dog." 

To  this  ignominious  avenue  of  approach,  Mr.  Crisparkle  repaired, 
awaiting  the  arrival  of  a  short  squat  omnibus,  with  a  dispropor- 
tionate heap  of  luggage  on  the  roof — like  a  little  Elephant  with 
infinitely  too  much  Castle — which  was  then  the  daily  service 
between  Cloisterham  and  external  mankind.  As  this  vehicle 
lumbered  up,  Mr.  Crisparkle  could  hardly  see  anything  else  of  it 
for  a  large  outside  passenger  seated  on  the  box,  with  his  elbows 
squared,  and  his  hands  on  his  knees,  compressing  the  driver  into  a 
most  uncomfortably  small  compass,  and  glowering  about  him  with 
a  strongly  marked  face. 

"  Is  this  Cloisterham  ?"  demanded  the  passenger,  in  a  tremendous 
voice. 

"  It  is,"  replied  the  driver,  rubbing  himself  as  if  he  ached,  after 
throwing  the  reins  to  the  ostler.  "  And  I  never  was  so  glad  to  see 
it." 

■  "  Tell  your  master  to  make  his  box  seat  wider  then,"  returned 
the  passenger.  "  Your  master  is  morally  bound — and  ought  to  be 
legally,  under  ruinous  penalties — to  provide  for  the  comfort  of  his 
fellow-man." 

The  driver  instituted,  with  the  palms  of  his  hands,  a  superficial 
perquisition  into  the  state  of  his  skeleton ;  which  seemed  to  make 
him  anxious. 

"  Have  I  sat  upon  you  ?"  asked  the  passenger. 

"  You  have,"  said  the  driver,  as  if  he  didn't  like  it  at  all. 

"  Take  that  card,  my  friend." 

"  I  think  I  won't  deprive  you  on  it,"  returned  the  driver,  casting 
his  eyes  over  it  with  no  great  favor,  without  taking  it.  "  What's 
the  good  of  it  to  me  ?" 

"  Be  a  Member  of  that  Society,"  said  the  passenger. 

"  What  shall  I  get  by  it  ?"  asked  the  driver. 

"  Brotherhood,"  returned  the  passenger,  in  a  ferocious  voice. 

"  Thankee,"  said  the  driver,  very  deliberately,  as  he  got  down ; 
"  my  mother  was  contented  with  myself,  and  so  am  I.  I  don't 
-want  no  brothers." 

"  But  you  must  have  them,"  replied  the  passenger,  also  descend- 
ing, "  whether  you  like  it  or  not.     I  am  your  brother." 

"  I  say !"  expostulated  the  driver,  l^ecoming  more  chafed  in 
temper  ;  "  not  too  fur  !     The  worm  icill^  when " 

But'  here  Mr.  Crisparkle  interposed,  remonstrating  aside,  in  a 
friendly  voice  :  "  Joe,  Joe,  Joe !  Don't  forget  yourself,  Joe,  my 
good  fellow !"  and  then,  when  Joe  peacea,bly  touched  his  hat, 
■accosting  the  passenger  with:  "Mr.  Honey  thunder  ?" 


38  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN    DEOOD. 

"  That  is  my  name,  sir." 

"  My  name  is  Crisparkle." 

"  Eeverend  Mr.  Septimus  ?  Glad  to  see  you,  sir.  Neville  and 
Helena  are  inside.  Having  a  little  succumbed  of  late,  under  the 
pressure  of  my  public  labours,  I  thought  I  would  take  a  mouthful 
of  fresh  air,  and  come  down  with  them,  and  return  at  night.  So  you 
are  the  Reverend  Mr.  Septimus,  are  you  ?"  surveying  him  on  the 
whole  with  disappointment,  and  twisting  a  double  eye-glass  by  its 
ribbon,  as  if  he  were  roasting  it ;  but  not  otherwise  using  it, 
*'  Hah  !     I  expected  to  see  jou  older,  sir." 

"  I  hope  you  will,"  was  the  good-humoured  .rej)ly. 

"  Eh  ?"  demanded  Mr.  Honeythunder. 

"  Only  a  poor  little  joke.     Not  worth  repeating." 

"  Joke  ?  Aye ;  I  never  see  a  joke,"  Mr.  Honeythunder  frowningly 
retorted.  "  A  joke  is  wasted  upon  me,  sir.  Where  are  they ! 
Helena  and  Neville,  come  here!  Mr.  Crisparkle  has  come  down 
to  meet  you." 

An  unusually  handsome  lithe  young  fellow,  and  an  unusually 
handsome  lithe  girl ;  much  alike ;  both  very  dark,  and  very  rich 
in  color ;  she,  of  almost  the  gipsy  type ;  something  untamed 
about  them  both ;  a  certain  air  upon  them  of  hunter  and  huntress ; 
yet  withal  a  certain  air  of  being  the  objects  of  the  chase,  rather 
than  the  followers.  Slender,  supple,  quick  of  eye  and  limb ;  half 
shy,  half  defiant ;  fierce  of  look ;  an  indefinable  kind  of  pause 
coming  and  going  on  their  whole  expression,  both  of  face  and  form, 
which  might  be  equally  likened  to  the  pause  before  a  crouch,  or  a 
bound.  The  rough  mental  notes  made  in  the  first  five  minutes  bv 
Mr.  Crisparkle,  would  have  read  thus,  verbatim. 

He  invited  Mr.  Honeythunder  to  dinner,  with  a  troubled  mind, 
(for  the  discomfiture  of  the  dear  old  china  shepherdess  lay  heavy 
on  it),  and  gave  his  arm  to  Helena  Landless.  Both  she  and  her 
brother,  as  they  walked  all  together  through  the  ancient  streets, 
took  great  delight  in  what  he  pointed  out  of  the  Cathedral  and 
the  Monastery-ruin,  and  wondered — so  his  notes  ran  on — much  as 
if  they  were  beautiful  barbaric  captives  brought  from  some  wild 
tropical  dominion.  Mr.  Honeythunder  walked  in  the  middle  of 
the  road,  shouldering  the  natives  out  of  his  way,  and  loudly 
developing  a  scheme  he  had,  for  making  a  raid  on  all  the  un- 
employed persons  in  the  United  Kingdom,  laying  them  ever}'  one 
Tby  the  heels  in  jail,  and  forcing  them  on  pain  of  prompt  exter- 
mination to  become  philanthropists. 

Mrs.  Crisparkle  had  need  of  her  own  share  of  philanthropy'  when 
she  beheld  this  very  large  and  very  loud  excrescence  on  the  little 
party.  Alw^ays  something  in  the  nature  of  a  Boil  upon  the  face 
of  society,  Mr.  Honeythunder  expanded  into  an  inflammatory- 
Wen  in  Minor  Canon  Corner.  Though  it  was  not  literall}'  true, 
as  was  facetiously  charged  against  him  by  public  unbelievers,  that 
he  called  aloud  to  his  fellow-creatures :  "  Curse  your  souls  and 
l)odies,  come  here  and  be  blessed  !"  still  his  philanthrop}*"  was  of 
that  gunpowderous  sort  that  the  difference  between  it  and  ani- 
]iiosity  was  hard  to  determine.  You  were  to  abolish  military 
force,  but  you  were  first  to  bring  all  commanding  officers  who  had 


PHILANTHROPY    IN   MJNOK   CANON    COENER.  39 

done  tlieir  duty,  to  trial  by  court  martial  for  that  offence,  and 
shoot  them.  You  were  to  abolish  war,  but  were  to  make  converts 
by  making  war  upon  them,  and  charging  them  with  loving  war 
as  the  apple  of  their  eye.  You  were  to  h^ve  no  caj^ital  punishment, 
but  were  first  to  sweep  off  the  face  of  the  earth  all  legislators, 
jurists,  and  judges,  who  were  of  the  contrary  opinion.  You  were 
to  have  universal  concord,  and  were  to  get  it  by  eliminating  all 
the  people  who  wouldn't,  or  conscientiously  couldn't,  be  con- 
cordant. You  were  to  love  your  brother  as  yourself,  but  after 
an  indefinite  interval  of  maligning  him  (very  much  as  if  you 
hated  him),  and  calling  him  all  manner  of  names.  Above  all 
things,  you  were  to  do  nothing  in  private,  or  on  your  own 
account.  You  were  to  go  to  the  offices  of  the  Haven  of 
Philanthropy,  and  put  your  name  down  as  a  Member  and  a  Pro- 
fessing Philanthropist.  Then,  you  were  to  pay  up  your  subscrip- 
tion, get  your  card  of  membership  and  your  riband  and  medal,  and 
w^ere  evermore  to  live  upon  a  platform,  and  evermore  to  say  what 
Mr.  Honeythunder  said,  and  what  the  Treasurer  said,  and  what 
the  sub-Treasurer  said,  and  what  the  Committee  said,  and  what 
the  sub-Committee  said,  and  what  the  Secretary  said,  and  what  the 
Vice  Secretary  said.  And  this  was  usually  said  in  the  unanimously 
carried  resolution  under  hand  and  seal,  to  the  effect :  "  That  this 
assembled  Body  of  Professing  Philanthropists  views,  with  indignant 
scorn  and  contempt,  not  unmixed  with  utter  detestation  and  loathing- 
abhorrence," — in  short,  the  baseness  of  all  those  who  do  not  belong  to 
it,  and  pledges  itself  to  make  as  many  obnoxious  statements  as  pos- 
sible about  them,  without  being  at  all  particular  as  to  facts. 

The  dinner  was  a  most  doleful  breakdown.  The  philanthropist 
deranged  the  symmetry  of  the  table,  sat  himself  in  the  way  of  the 
w^aiting,  blocked  up  the  thoroughfare,  and  drove  Mr.  Toj^e  (who 
assisted  the  parlour-maid),  to  the  verge  of  distraction  by  passing 
plates  and  dishes  on,  over  his  own  head.  Kobody  coidd  talk  to  any- 
body, because  he  held  forth  to  everybody  at  once,  as  if  the  company 
had  no  individual  existence,  but  were  a  Meeting.  He  impounded 
the  Eeverend  Mr.  Septimus,  as  an  official  personage  to  be  addressed, 
or  kind  of  human  peg  to  hang  his  oratorical  hat  on,  and  fell  into 
the  exasperating  habit,  common  among  such  orators,  of  imper- 
sonating him  as  a  wicked  and  weak  opponent.  Thus,  he  would 
ask  :  "  And  will  you,  sir,  now  stultify  yourself  by  telling  me  " — 
and  so  forth,  when  the  innocent  man  had  not  ojoened  his  lips,  nor 
meant  to  open  them.  Or  he  would  say  :  "  Now  see,  sir,  to  what 
a  position  you  are  reduced.  I  will  leave  you  no  escaj)e.  After 
exhausting  all  the  resources  of  fraud  and  falsehood,  during  years 
upon  years ;  after  exhibiting  a  combination  of  dastardly  meanness 
with  ensanguined  daring,  such  as  the  world  has  not  often  wit- 
nessed ;  you  have  now  the  hypocrisy  to  bend  the  knee  before  the 
most  degraded  of  mankind,  and  to  sue  and  whine  and  howl  for 
mercy !"  Whereat  the  unfortunate  Minor  Canon  would  look,  in 
part  indignant  and  in  part  perplexed  :  while  his  worthy  mother  sat 
bridling,  with  tears  in  her  eyes,  and  the  remainder  of  the  party 
lapsed  into  a  sort  of  gelatinous  state,  in  which  there  was  no  flavor 
or  solidity,  and  very  little  resistance. 


40  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

But  the  gusti  of  philantliropy  that  burst  forth  when  the  de- 
parture of  Mr.  Honey  thunder  began  to  impend,  must  have  been 
highly  gratifying  to  the  feelings  of  that  distinguished  man.  His 
coffee  was  produced,  by  the  special  activity  of  Mr.  Tope,  a  full 
hour  before  he  wanted  it.  Mr.  Crisparkle  sat  with  his  watch  in  his 
hand,  for  about  the  same  period,  lest  he  should  overstay  his  time. 
The  four  j^oung  people  were  unanimous  in  believing  that  the 
Cathedral  clock  struck  three-quarters,  when  it  actually  struck  but 
one.  Miss  Twinkleton  estimated  the  distance  to  the  omnibus  at 
five-and-twenty  minutes'  walk,  when  it  was  really  five.  The 
affectionate  kindness  of  the  whole  circle  hustled  him  into  his 
great-coat,  and  shoved  him  out  into  the  moonlight,  as  if  he  were 
a  fugitive  traitor  with  whom  they  sympathised,  and  a  troop  of  horse 
were  at  the  back  door.  Mr.  Crisparkle  and  his  new  charge,  who 
took  him  to  the  omnibus,  were  so  fervent  in  their  apprehensions 
of  his  catching  cold,  that  they  shut  him  up  in  it  instantly  and 
left  him,  with  still  half  an  hour  to  s]3are. 


CHAPTEK  YII. 

MORE   CONFIDENCES    THAN    ONE. 


"  I  Kxow  very  little  of  that  gentleman,  sir,"  said  Neville  to  the 
Minor  Canon  as  they  turned  back. 

"You  know  very  little  of  your  guardian?"  the  Minor  Canon 
repeated. 

"  Almost  nothing." 

"  How  came  he " 

"To  he  my  guardian  ?  I'll  tell  you,  sir.  I  suppose  ^''ou  know 
that  we  come  (my  sister  and  I)  from  Ceylon  ?" 

"  Indeed,  no." 

"  I  wonder  at  that.  We  lived  with  a  stepfather  there.  Our 
mother  died  there,  when  we  were  little  children.  We  have  had  a 
wretched  existence.  She  made  him  our  guardian,  and  he  was  a 
miserly  wretch  who  grudged  us  food  to  eat,  and  clothes  to  wear. 
At  his  death,  he  passed  us  over  to  this  man ;  for  no  better  reason 
that  I  know  of,  than  his  being  a  friend  or  connexion  of  his,  whose 
name  was  always  in  print  and  catching  his  attention." 

"  That  was  lately,  I  suppose?" 

"  Quite  lately,  sir.  This  stepfather  of  ours  was  a  cruel  brute 
as  well  as  a  grinding  one.  It  was  well  he  died  when  he  did,  or  I 
might  have  killed  him." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  stopped  short  in  the  moonlight  and  looked  at  his 
hopeful  pupil  in  consternation. 

"  I  surprise  you,  sir  ?"  he  said,  with  a  quick  change  to  a  sub- 
missive manner. 

"  You  shock  me ;  unspeakably  shock  me." 

The  pupil  hung  his  head  for  a  little  while,  as  they  walked  on, 
and  then  said  :  "  You  never  saw  him  beat  your  sister.  I  have 
seen  him  beat  mine,  more  than  once  or  twice,  and  I  never  forgot  it." 


MORE   CONFIDENCES    THAN    ONE.  41 

"Nothing,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "not  even  a  beloved  and 
"beautiful  sister's  tears  under  dastardly  ill-usage ;"  he  became  less 
severe,  in  spite  of  himself,  as  his  indignation  rose ;  *'  could  justify 
those  horrible  expressions  that  you  used." 

"  I  am  sorry  I  used  them,  and  especially  to  you,  sir.  I  beg  to 
recall  them.  But  permit  me  to  set  you  right  on  one  point.  \  oii 
spoke  of  my  sister's  tears.  My  sister  would  have  let  him  tear 
her  to  pieces,  before  she  would  have  let  him  believe  that  he  could 
make  her  shed  a  tear." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  reviewed  those  mental  notes  of  his,  and  was 
neither  at  all  surprised  to  hear  it,  nor  at  all  disposed  to  question 
it. 

"  Perhaps  you  will  think  it  strange,  sir " — this  was  said  in  a 
hesitating  voice — "  that  I  should  so  soon  ask  you  to  allow  me  to 
confide  in  you,  and  to  have  the  kindness  to  hear  a  word  or  two 
from  me  in  my  defence  ?" 

"Defence?"  Mr.  Crisparkle  repeated.  "You  are  not  on  3'our 
defence,  Mr.  Neville." 

"  I  think  I  am,  sir.  At  least  I  know  I  should  be,  if  you  were 
better  acquainted  with  my  character." 

"  Well,  Mr.  Neville,"  was  the  rejoinder.  "  What  if  you  leave 
me  to  find  it  out  ?" 

"  Since  it  is  your  pleasure,  sir,"  answered  the  young  man,  with 
a  quick  change  in  his  manner  to  sullen  disaj^pointment :  "  since  it 
is  your  pleasure  to  check  me  in  my  impulse,  I  must  submit." 

There  was  that  in  the  tone  of  this  short  speech  Avhich  made  the 
tonscientious  man  to  whom  it  was  addressed,  uneasy.  It  hinted 
TO  him  that  he  might,  without  meaning  it,  turn  aside  a  trustful- 
ness beneficial  to  a  mis-shapen  young  mind  and  perhaj)s  to  his 
own  power  of  directing  and  improving  it.  They  were  within 
sight  of  the  lights  in  his  windows,  and  he  stojoped. 

"  Let  us  turn  back  and  take  a  turn  or  two  up  and  down,  Mr. 
Neville,  or  you  may  not  have  time  to  finish  what  you  wish  to  say 
to  me.  You  are  hasty  in  thinking  that  I  mean  to  check  you. 
Quite  the  contrary.     I  invite  your  confidence." 

"  You  have  invited  it,  sir,  without  knowing  it,  ever  since  I  came 
here.  I  say  '  ever  since,'  as  if  I  had  been  here  a  week !  The 
truth  is,  we  came  here  (my  sister  and  I)  to  quarrel  with  you,  and 
afi'ront  you,  and  break  away  again." 

"Eeally?"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  at  a  dead  loss  for  anything  else 
to  say. 

"  You  see,  we  could  not  know  what  you  were  beforehand,  sir ; 
could  we  ?" 

"  Clearly  not,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle. 

"  And  having  liked  no  one  else  with  whom  we  have  ever  been 
brought  into  contact,  we  had  made  up  our  minds  not  to  like  you." 

"  Eeally  ?"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle  again. 

"  But  we  do  like  you,  sir,  and  we  see  an  unmistakeable  differ- 
ence between  your  house  and  your  reception  of  us,  and  anything 
else  we  have  ever  known.  This — and  my  happening  to  be  alone 
with  you — and  everything  around  us  seeming  so  quiet  and  peace- 
ful after  Mr.  Honeythunder's  departure — and  Cloisterham  being 


42  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

SO  old  and  grave  and  beautilul,  with,  the  moon  shining  on  it — 
these  things  inclined  me  to  open  my  heart." 

"  I  quite  understand,  Mr.  Neville.  And  it  is  salutary  to  listen 
to  such  influences." 

"  In  describing  my  own  imperfections,  sir,  I  must  ask  you  not 
to  suppose  that  I  am  describing  my  sister's.  She  has  come  out  of 
the  disadvantages  of  our  miserable  life,  as  much  better  than  I  am, 
as  that  Cathedral  tower  is  higher  than  those  chimnies." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  in  his  own  breast  w^as  not  so  sure  of  this. 

"I  have  had,  sir,  from  my  earliest  remembrance,  to  suppress 
a  deadly  and  bitter  hatred.  This  has  made  me  secret  and  re- 
vengeful. I  have  been  always  tyrannically^  held  down  by  the 
strong  hand.  This  has  driven  me,  in  my  weakness,  to  the  re- 
source of  being  false  and  mean.  I  have  been  stinted  of  education, 
liberty,  money,  dress,  the  ver}^  necessaries  of  life,  the  commonest 
pleasures  of  childhood,  the  commonest  possessions  of  youth.  This 
lias  caused  me  to  be  utterly  wanting  in  I  don't  know  what  emotions, 
or  remembrances,  or  good  instincts — I  have  not  even  a  name  for 
the  thing,  you  see! — that  3^ou  have  had  to  work  upon  in  other 
young  men  to  w^hom  you  have  been  accustomed." 

"  This  is  evidently  true.  But  this-  is  not  encouraging,"  thought 
Mr.  Crisparkle  as  they  turned  again. 

"  And  to  finish  with,  sir :  I  have  been  brought  up  among  abject 
and  servile  dependents,  of  an  inferior  race,  and  I  may  easily  have 
contracted  some  affinity  with  them.  Sometimes,  I  don't  know  but 
that  it  may  be  a  drop  of  what  is  tigerish  in  their  blood." 

"As  in  the  case  of  that  remark  just  now,"  thought  Mr. 
Crisparkle. 

"  In  a  last  word  of  reference  to  my  sister,  sir  (we  are  twin 
cbildren),  you  ought  to  know,  to  her  honor,  that  nothing  in  our 
misery  ever  subdued  her,  though  it  often  cowed  me.  When  we 
ran  away  from  it  (we  ran  away  four  times  in  six  years,  to  be  soon 
brought  back  and  cruell}'  punished),  the  flight  was  always  of  her 
planning  and  leading.  Each  time  she  dressed  as  a  boy,  and 
showed  the  daring  of  a  man.  I  take  it  we  were  seven  years  old 
when  we  first  decamped ;  but  I  remember,  when  I  lost  the  pocket- 
knife  with  which  she  was  to  have  cut  her  hair  short,  how  despe- 
rately she  tried  to  tear  it  out,  or  bite  it  off.  I  have  nothing 
further  to  say,  sir,  except  that  I  hope  you  will  bear  with  me  and 
make  allowance  for  me." 

"  Of  that,  Mr.  Neville,  you  may'  be  sure,"  returned  the  Minor 
Canon.  "I  don't  preach  more  than  I  can  help,  and  I  will  not 
repay  your  confidence  with  a  sermon.  But  I  entreat  you  to  bear 
in  mind,  very  seriously  and  steadily,  that  if  I  am  to  do  you  any 
good,  it  can  only  be  with  j'our  own  assistance ;  and  that  you  can 
only  render  that,  efficiently,  by  seeking  aid  from  Heaven." 

"  I  will  try  to  do  ni}^  part,  sir." 

*'  And,  Mr.  Keville,  I  will  try  to  do  mine.  Here  is  my  hand  on 
it.     May  God  bless  our  endeavours  !" 

They  were  now  standing  at  his  house-door,  and  a  cheerful  sound 
of  voices  and  laughter  was  heard  within. 

"We   will    take   one   more   turn   before   going   in,"   said    !Mr. 


MORE   CONFIDENCES    THAN   ONE.  43 

Crisparkle,  "  for  I  want  to  ask  yon  a  question.  ATlien  yen  said 
yon  were  in  a  changed  mind  concerning  me,  yon  spoke,  not  only 
for  yonrself,  but  for  yonr  sister  too." 

"  Undoubtedly  I  did,  sir." 

"  Excuse  me,  Mr.  Keville,  but  I  think  yon  have  bad  no  oppor- 
tunity of  communicating  with  your  sister,  since  I  met  yon.  Mr. 
Honeytbunder  was  very  eloquent ;  but  perhaps  I  may  venture  to 
Si%j,  without  ill-nature,  that  he  rather  monopolized  the  occasion. 
]\lay  yon  not  have  answered  for  your  sister  without  sufficient 
warrant  ?  " 

Neville  shook  his  head  with  a  proud  smile. 

"  You  don't  know,  sir,  yet,  what  a  complete  understanding  can 
exist  between  my  sister  and  me,  though  no  spoken  word — perhaj^s 
hardly  as  much  as  a  look — may  have  passed  between  us.  She  not 
only  feels  as  I.  have  described,  but  she  very  well  knows  that  I  am 
taking  this  opportunity  of  speaking  to  you,  both  for  her  and  for 
myself." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  looked  in  his  face,  with  some  incredulity ;  but  his 
face  expressed  such  absolute  and  firm  conviction  of  the  truth  of 
what  he  said,  that  Mr.  Crisparkle  looked  at  the  pavement,  and 
mused,  until  they  came  to  his  door  again. 

"  I  will  ask  for  one  more  turn,  sir,  this  time,"  said  the  young 
man  with  a  rather  heightened  color  rising  in  his  face.  "  But  for 
Mr.  Honeythnnder's — I  think  yon  called  it  eloquence,  sir  ?"  (some- 
what slyly). 

"  I — yes,  I  called  it  eloquence,"  said  Mr,  Crisparkle. 

"  But  for  Mr.  Honeythnnder's  eloquence,  I  might  have  had  no 
need  to  ask  yon  what  I  am  going  to  ask  you.  This  Mr.  Edwin 
Drood,  sir  :  I  think  that's  the  name  ?" 

*'  Quite  correct,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle.     "  D-r-donble  o-d." 

*'  Does  he — or  did  he — read  with  3'ou,  sir  ?" 

"  Kever,  !Mr.  Keville.     He  comes  here  visiting  his  relation,  Mr 
Jasper." 

"  Is  Miss  Bud  his  relation  too,  sir  ?" 

("  Now,  why  should  he  ask  that,  with  sudden  superciliousness  !'^ 
thought  Mr.  Crisparkle.)  Then  he  explained,  aloud,  what  he 
knew  of  the  little  story  of  their  betrothal. 

"Oh!  That's  it,  is  it?"  said  the  young  man.  *' I  understand 
his  air  of  proiDrietorship  now !" 

This  was  said  so  evidently  to  himself,  or  to  anybody  rather  than 
Mr.  CrisjDarkle,  that  the  latter  instinctively  felt  as  if  to  notice 
it  would  be  almost  tantamount  to  noticing  a  passage  in  a  letter 
which  he  had  read  by  chance  over  the  writer's  shoulder.  A 
moment  afterwards  th.ej  re-entered  the  house. 

Mr.  Jasper  was  seated  at  the  piano  as  they  came  into  his  drawing- 
room,  and  was  accompanying  Miss  Eosebnd  while  she  sang.  It 
was  a  consequence  of  his  playing  the  accompaniment  Vkdthont 
notes,  and  of  her  being  a  heedless  little  creature  very  ajDt  to  go 
wrong,  that  he  followed  her  lips  most  attentively,  with  his  eyes  as 
well  as  hands  ;  carefully  and  softly  hinting  the  key-note  from  time 
to  time.  Standing  with  an  arm  drawn  round  her,  but  with  a  face 
far  more  intent  on  Mr.  Jasper  than  on  her  singing,  stood  Helena  , 


44  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

between  whom  and  her  brother  an  instantaneous  recognition 
passed,  in  which  Mr.  Crisparkle  saw,  or  thought  he  saw,  the 
understanding  that  had  been  spoken  of,  flash  out.  Mr.  Neville 
then  took  his  admiring  station,  leaning  against  the  piano, 
opposite  the  singer ;  Mr.  Crisparkle  sat  down  by  the  china  shep- 
herdess ;  Edwin  Drood  gallantly  furled  and  unfurled  Miss  Twin- 
kleton's  fan ;  and  that  lady  passively  claimed  that  sort  of  exhi- 
bitor's proprietorship  in  the  accomplishment  on  view,  which  Mr. 
Tope,  the  Verger,  daily  claimed  in  the  Cathedral  service. 

The  song  went  on.  It  was  a  sorrowful  strain  of  parting,  and 
the  fresh  young  voice  was  very  plaintive  and  tender.  As  Jasper 
watched  the  pretty  lips,  and  ever  and  again  hinted  the  one  note, 
as  though  it  were  a  low  whisper  from  himself,  the  voice  became 
less  steady,  until  all  at  once  the  singer  broke  into  a  burst  of 
tears,  and  shrieked  out,  with  her  hands  over  her  eyes ;  "  I  can't 
bear  this  !     I  am  frightened !     Take  me  away !" 

With  one  swift  turn  of  her  lithe  figure,  Helena  laid  the  little 
beauty  on  a  sofa,  as  if  she  had  never  caught  her  up.  Then,  on  one 
knee  beside  her,  and  with  one  hand  upon  her  rosy  mouth,  while 
with  the  other  she  appealed  to  all  the  rest,  Helena  said  to  them  : 
"  It's  nothing ;  it's  all  over ;  don't  speak  to  her  for  one  minute, 
;and  she  is  well !" 

Jasper's  hands  had,  in  the  same  instant,  lifted  themselves  from 
the  keys,  and  were  now  poised  above  them,  as  though  he  waited 
to  resume.  In  that  attitude  he  yet  sat  quiet :  not  even  looking 
round,  when  all  the  rest  had  changed  their  places  and  were  re- 
assuring one  another. 

"  Pussy's  not  used  to  an  audience ;  that's  the  fact,"  said  Edwin 
Drood.  "  She  got  nervous,  and  couldn't  hold  out.  Besides,  Jack, 
you  are  such  a  conscientious  master,  and  require  so  much,  that 
1  believe  you  make  her  afraid  of  you.     No  wonder." 

''  No  wonder,"  repeated  Helena. 

"  There,  Jack,  you  hear !  You  would  be  afraid  of  him,  under 
■similar  circumstances,  wouldn't  you.  Miss  Landless  ?" 

"  Not  under  smy  circumstances,"  returned  Helena. 

Jasper  brought  down  his  hands,  looked  over  his  shoulder,  and 
b)egged  to  thank  Miss  Landless  for  her  vindication  of  his  character. 
Then  he  fell  to  dumbly  playing,  without  striking  the  notes,  while 
his  little  pupil  was  taken  to  an  open  window  for  air,  and  was 
'Otherwise  petted  and  restored.  When  she  was  brought  back, 
liis  place  was  empty.  "  Jack's  gone,  Pussy,"  Edwin  told  her. 
"  I  am  more  than  half  afraid  he  didn't  like  to  be  charged  with 
being  the  Monster  who  had  frightened  you,"  But  she  answered 
never  a  word,  and  shivered,  as  if  they  had  made  her  a  little  too 
cold. 

Miss  Twinkleton  now  opining  that  indeed  these  were  late 
hours,  Mrs.  Crisparkle,  for  finding  ourselves  outside  the  walls 
of  the  Nuns'  House,  and  that  we  who  undertook  the  formation 
of  the  future  wives  and  mothers  of  England  (the  last  words 
in  a  lower  voice,  as  requiring  to  be  communicated  in  confidence) 
were  really  bound  (voice  coming  up  again)  to  set  a  better  example 
than   one   of  rakish   habits,    wrappers   were   put  in  requisition, 


MOKE    CONFIDENCES   THAN   ONE.  45 

and  tlie  two  young  cavaliers  volunteered  to  see  the  ladies  home. 
It  was  soon  done,  and  the  gate  of  the  Nuns'  House  closed  upon 
them. 

The  boarders  had  retired,  and  only  Mrs.  Tisher  in  solitarj^  vigil 
awaited  the  new  pupil.  Her  bedroom  being  within  Eosa's,  very 
little  introduction  or  explanation  was  necessary,  before  she  was 
placed  in  charge  of  her  new  friend,  and  left  for  the  night. 

"  This  is  a  blessed  relief,  my  dear,"  said  Helena.  "  I  have 
been  dreading  all  day,  that  I  should  be  brought  to  bay  at  this 

time." 

"  There  are  not  many  of  us,"  returned  Eosa,  "  and  we  are  good- 
natured  girls  ;    at  least  the  others  are  ;  I  can  answer  for  them." 

"  I  can  answer  for  you,"  laughed  Helena,  searching  the  lovely 
little  face  with  her  dark  fiery  eyes,  and  tenderly  caressing  the  small 
figure.     "  You  will  be  a  friend  to  me,  won't  you  ?" 

"  I  hope  so.  But  the  idea  of  my  being  a  friend  to  you  seems  toO' 
absurd,  though." 

"  Why  ?" 

"  Oh !  I  am  such  a  mite  of  a  thing,  and  you  are  so  womanly  and 
handsome.  You  seem  to  have  resolution  and  power  enough  to 
crush  me.  I  shrink  into  nothing  by  the  side  of  your  presence 
even." 

"  I  am  a  neglected  creature,  my  dear,  unacquainted  with  all 
accomplishments,  sensitively  conscious  that  I  have  everything  to 
learn,  and  deeply  ashamed  to  own  my  ignorance." 

"  And  yet  you  acknowledge  everything  to  me !"  said  Eosa. 

"  My  pretty   one,    can  I   help   it  ?      There  is  a  fascination  in 

"  Oh  !  Is  there  though  ?"  pouted  Eosa,  half  in  jest  and  half  in 
earnest.     "  What  a  pit}^  Master  Eddy  doesn't  feel  it  more !" 

Of  course  her  relations  towards  that  young  gentleman  had  been 
already  imparted,  in  Minor  Canon  Corner. 

"  Why,  surely  he  must  love  you  with  all  his  heart  !"  cried 
Helena,  with  an  earnestness  that  threatened  to  blaze  into  ferocity 
if  he  didn't. 

"  Eh  ?  Oh,  well,  I  suppose  he  does,"  said  Eosa,  pouting  again  ; 
*'  I  am  sure  I  have  no  right  to  say  he  doesn't.  Perhaps  it's  my 
fault.  Perhaps  I  am  not  as  nice  to  him  as  I  ought  to  be.  I  don't 
think  I  am.     But  it  is  so  ridiculous  !" 

Helena's  eyes  demanded  what  was. 

"  We  are,"  said  Eosa,  answering  as  if  she  had  spoken.  "  We  are 
such  a  ridiculous  couple.     And  we  are  always  quarrelling." 

"Why?" 

"Because  we  both  know  we  are  ridiculous,  my  dear!"  Eosa 
gave  that  answer  as  if  it  were  the  most  conclusive  answer  in  the 
world. 

Helena's  masterful  look  was  intent  upon  her  face  for  a  few 
moments,  and  then  she  impulsively  put  out  both  her  hands  and 
said  : 

"  You  will  be  my  friend  and  help  me  ?" 

"  Indeed,  my  dear,  I  will,"  replied  Eosa,  in  a  tone  of  affectionate 
childishness  that  went  straight  and  true  to  her  heart ;  "  I  will  ba 


46 


'i-wriTv 


as  good  a  friend  &s  -     _ 
creatnre  as  jojl.    Ai.  . 

_^  ItHi   Landless  kissed 


ItT- 


Irr.    i-1  rtiidniDo:  Ivth  hrr  l.-!s. 


C£ 


••  VTno  is  Mr.  Jasper?* 

Bosa  trmed  aside  t.r  1_ ...I  in  :.:LSTrering 

zLLj  111  piaster." 

"  Y    -  ^  loTe  him  ?* 

"Ughl'     SLr  7-T  JLrr  1   :  "^  -7  T    iirr  f  ::    iz I  si 
or  horror. 

"  Yon  know  :!  -  L    .  ^  ^  -  "   ** 

" Oh,  don't,  i:--.    \:z.z.'    cn^  .   7" : sa,  dropping  en 
and  clinging  t     IitT  :ir~  resonr:  ■  Dofn't  tell  m^ 

terrizfs  iif.     H     L    ii^ts   i2vth»:    _L:       ie  a  dreadf 


with  &ar 


1     '^I^    -r- 


t^iie 


the  \rl_il".  :._  1  ;:  — 
•  3Iv  child !    Yon 


rling." 
~T^  so  stronff. 


1  TOn  in 


^  ever.' 


He  lias  ilrced  mo 

,c    '--.-.---.7 


1  f 


wiLiioa: 

me  : 
mcrf  : 


i-i  my  lips,     When  he  correz's  n 

plavs  a  p        -     Lr  '-  •  -  ;  -If  i 

•  irsnes  me  as  a  iover,  and  ;   l 

Lr  forc^fc 


his  eves,  \ 


:  n    :     .r   IS  si::-__    .. 

then  than  ever.^ 

-  -  ..ined  threatening,  prettjr  one  ? 


-ir   nrver 
lies  a 

-  -  —  -    -"-> 

_    j-e  to 

-:c  ifaem 

vcr  them 

i^^^T  into 

^    :^bliges 

_     side, 

TVhat   is 


I  live  never  e- 


»T  r,.  V   -^  , ^  1   ^ 


Tli-  - 


hear  it,  but  c: 

Eddv  is  de 

m 

not  be  afrt  ^ 

me — ^who  1'-. 


an,  to-night  r 

:  except  that  to-ni^t  whoi  he  watdied  mj  UpB 

'ingrng,  besides  feeling  terrified  I  felt  aahamed 

L   ::.     It  -was  as  if  he  kissed  me,  and  I  oooldn't 

Yon  mis*  never  breathe  this  to  anj  one. 

-  izi.     Bnt  VI      "i  :        _1-  -'        "on  would 

•r 

--'t  gives 
1  -  —  -  _iy  joa. 


3  - 


r  any  circ: 


lilOKE   COXFIDEXCES    THAN    OXE.  17 

Ilold   me !     Stay  witli  me !     I  am  too  frightened  to  be  left  by 
myself." 

The  histrons  gipsy-face  drooped  over  the  clinging  arms  and 
bosom,  and  the  wild  black  hair  fell  down  protectingly  over  the 
childish  form.  There  was  a  slumbering  gleam  of  fire  in  the 
intense  dark  eyes,  though  they  were  then  softened  with  com- 
passion and  admiration.  Let  whomsoever  it  most  concerned,  look 
well  to  it ! 


CHAPTEE  Till. 

DAGGEES   DEA'\^'X. 


The  two  young  men,  having  seen  the  damsels,  their  charges, 
enter  the  courtyard  of  the  Nuns'  House,  and  finding  themselves 
coldly  stared  at  by  the  brazen  door-plate,  as  if  the  battered  old 
beau  with  the  glass  in  his  eye  were  insolent,  look  at  one  another, 
look  along  the  perspective  of  the  moonlit  street,  and  slowly  walk 
away  together. 

"•  Do  you  stay  here  long,  I\Ir.  Drood  ?"  says  Xeville. 

"  Xot  this  time,"  is  the  careless  answer,  "  I  leave  for  London 
again,  to-morrow.  But  I  shall  be  here,  off  and  on,  until  next  Mid- 
summer ;  then  I  shall  take  my  leave  of  Cloisterham,  and  England 
too ;  for  many  a  long  day,  I  expect." 

"  Are  you  going  abroad  ?" 

"  Going  to  wake  up  Egypt  a  little,"  is  the  condescending 
answer, 

"  Are  you  reading  ?" 

"  Beading  1"  repeats  Edwin  Drood,  with  a  touch  of  contempt. 
*'  Xo,  Doing,  working,  engineering.  My  small  patrimony  was  left 
a  part  of  the  capital  of  the  Firm  I  am  with,  by  my  father,  a  former 
partner ;  and  I  am  a  charge  upon  the  Firm  until  I  come  of  age  ; 
and  then  I  step  into  my  modest  share  in  the  concern.  Jack — you 
met  him  at  dinner — is,  until  then,  my  guardian  and  trustee." 

"  I  heard  from  Mr.  Crisparkle  of  your  other  good  fortune." 

*'  "What  do  you  mean  by  my  other  good  fortune  ?" 

Keville  has  made  his  remark  in  a  watchfully  advancing,  and  yet 
furtive  and  shy  manner,  very  expressive  of  that  peculiar  air 
already  noticed,  of  being  at  once  hunter  and  hunted.  Edwin  has 
made  his  retort  with  an  abruptness  not  at  all  polite.  They  stop 
and  interchange  a  rather  heated  look. 

"  I  hope,"  says  Xeville,  "  there  is  no  offence,  Mr.  Drood,  in  my 
innocently  referring  to  your  betrothal  ?" 

"  By  George !"  cries  Edwin,  leading  on  again  at  a  somewhat 
quicker  pace.  "  Everybody  in  this  chattering  old  Cloisterham 
refers  to  it.  I  wonder  no  Public  House  has  been  set  up,  with  my 
portrait  for  the  sign  of  The  Betrothed's  Head.  Or  Pussy's  portrait. 
One  or  the  other." 

"I  am  not  accountable  for  Mr.  Crisparkle's  mentioning  the 
matter  to  me,  quite  openly,"  Neville  begins. 

"  No ;  that's  true  ;  you  are  not,"  Edwin  Drood  assents. 


48  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

"  But,"  resumes  Neville,  "  I  am  accountable  for  mentioning  it  t<v 
you.  And  I  did  so,  on  the  supposition  that  you  could  not  fail  t§ 
be  highly  proud  of  it." 

Now,  there  are  these  two  curious  touches  of  human  nature 
working  the  secret  springs  of  this  dialogue.  Neville  Landless  is 
already  enough  impressed  by  Little  Eosebud,  to  feel  indignant 
that  Edwin  Drood  (far  below  her)  should  hold  his  prize  so  lightly. 
Edwin  Drood  is  already  enough  impressed  by  Helena,  to  feel 
indignant  that  Helena's  brother  (far  below  her)  should  dispose  of 
him  so  coolly,  and  put  him  out  of  the  way  so  entirely. 

However,  the  last  remark  had  better  be  answered.  So,  says 
Edwin : 

"  I  don't  know,  Mr.  Neville  "  (adopting  that  mode  of  address 
from  Mr.  Crisparkle),  "that  what  peo23le  are  proudest  of,  they 
usuall}^  talk  most  about ;  I  don't  know  either,  that  what  they  are 
proudest  of,  they  most  like  other  people  to  talk  about.  But  I  live 
a  busy  life,  and  I  speak  under  correction  by  you  readers,  who 
ought  to  know  everything,  and  I  dare  say  do." 

By  this  time  they  have  both  become  savage ;  Mr.  Neville  out  in 
the  open  ;  Edwin  Drood  under  the  trans j)arent  cover  of  a  popular 
tune,  and  a  stop  now  and  then  to  pretend  to  admire  picturesque 
effects  in  the  moonlight  before  him. 

"  It  does  not  seem  to  me  very  civil  in  you,"  remarks  Neville,  at 
length,  "  to  reflect  u^^on  a  stranger  who  comes  here,  not  having 
had  your  advantages,  to  try  to  make  up  for  lost  time.  But,  to  be 
sure,  I  was  not  brought  up  in  '  busy  life,'  and  my  ideas  of  civility 
were  formed  among  Heathens." 

"Perhaps,  the  best  civility,  whatever  kind  of  people  we  are 
brought  uj)  among,"  retorts  Edwin  Drood,  "  is  to  mind  our  own 
business.  If  you  will  set  me  that  example,  I  promise  to  follow 
it." 

"  Do  you  know  that  you  take  a  great  deal  too  much  upon  your- 
self," is  the  angry  rejoinder ;  "  and  that  in  the  part  of  the  world 
I  come  from,  you  would  be  called  to  account  for  it  ?" 

"  By  whom,  for  instance  ?"  asks  Edwin  Drood,  coming  to  a  halt, 
and  survej^ng  the  other  with  a  look  of  disdain. 

But,  here  a  startling  right  hand  is  laid  on  Edwin's  shoulder,  and 
Jasper  stands  between  them.  For,  it  would  seem  that  he,  too,  has 
strolled  round  by  the  Nuns'  House,  and  has  come  up  behind  them 
on  the  shadowy  side  of  the  road. 

"  Ned,  Ned,  Ned !"  he  says.  "  We  must  have  no  more  of  this. 
I  don't  like  this.  I  have  overheard  high  words  between  you  two. 
Eemember,  my  dear  boy,  3'ou  are  almost  in  the  position  of  host 
to-night.  You  belong,  as  it  were,  to  the  place,  and  in  a  manner 
represent  it  towards  a  stranger.  Mr.  Neville  is  a  stranger, 
and  you  should  respect  the  obligations  of  hospitality.  And,  Mr. 
Neville :"  laying  his  left  hand  on  the  inner  shoulder  of  that  young- 
gentleman,  and  thus  walking  on  between  them,  hand  to  shoulder 
on  either  side :  "  you  will  pardon  me ;  but  I  appeal  to  you  to 
govern  your  temper  too.  Now,  what  is  amiss  ?  But  why  ask  ! 
Let  there  be  nothing  amiss,  and  the  question  is  superfluous.  We 
are  all  three  on  a  good  understanding,  are  we  not  ?" 


DAGGERS   DRAWN.  49 

After  a  silvsnt  struggle  between  the  two  young  men  who  shall 
speak  hist,  Edwin  Drood  strikes  in  with  :  "  So  far  as  I  am  concerned, 
Jack,  there  is  no  anger  in  me." 

"  Nor  in  me,"  says  Neville  Landless,  though  not  so  freely ;  or 
.perhaps  so  carelessly.  "But  if  Mr.  Drood  knew  all  that  lies 
behind  me,  far  away  from  here,  he  might  know  better  how  it  is 
that  sharp-edged  words  have  sharp  edges  to  wound  me." 

"  Perhaps,"  says  Jasper,  in  a  smoothing  manner,  "  we  had  better 
jiot  qualify  our  good  understanding.  We  had  better  not  say 
anything  having  the  appearance  of  a  remonstrance  or  condition ; 
it  might  not  seem  generous.  Frankly  and  freely,  you  see  there  is 
no  anger  in  Ned.  Frankly  and  freely,  there  is  no  anger  in  you, 
3Ir.  Neville  ?" 

"  None  at  all,  Mr.  Jasper."  Still,  not  quite  so  frankly  or  so 
freely ;  or,  be  it  said  once  again,  not  quite  so  carelessly  perhaps. 

"  All  over  then  !  Now,  m.j  bachelor  gate-house  is  a  few  yards 
from  here,  and  the  heater  is  on  the  fire,  and  the  wine  and  glasses 
are  on  the  table,  and  it  is  not  a  stone's  throw  from  Minor  Canon 
Corner.  Ned,  you  are  up  and  away  to-morrow.  We  will  carry 
Mr.  Neville  in  with  us,  to  take  a  stirrup-cup." 

"  With  all  my  heart.  Jack." 

"  And  v/ith  all  mine,  Mr.  Jasper."  Neville  feels  it  impossible 
to  say  less,  but  would  rather  not  go.  He  has  an  impression  upon 
him  that  he  has  lost  hold  of  his  temper ;  feels  that  Edwin  Drood's 
coolness,  so  far  from  being  infectious,  makes  him  red  hot. 

Mr.  Jasper,  still  walking  in  the  centre,  hand  to  shoulder  on 
either  side,  beautifully  turns  the  Eefrain  of  a  drinking-song,  and 
they  all  go  up  to  his  rooms.  There,  the  first  object  visible,  when 
he  adds  the  light  of  a  lamp  to  that  of  the  fire,  is  the  portrait  over 
the  chimney  piece.  It  is  not  an  object  calculated  to  improve  the 
understanding  between  the  two  j'oung  men,  as  rather  awkwardly 
reviving  the  subject  of  their  difference.  Accordingly,  they  both 
glance  at  it  consciously,  but  say  nothing.  Jasper,  however  (who 
would  appear  from  his  conduct  to  have  gained  but  an  imperfect 
due  to  the  cause  of  their  late  high  wordsj,  directly  calls  attention 
to  it. 

"  You  recognize  that  picture,  Mr.  Neville  ?"  shading  the  lamp 
to  throw  the  light  upon  it. 

"  I  recognize  it,  but  it  is  far  from  flattering  the  original." 

"  Oh,  you  are  hard  upon  it !  It  was  done  by  Ned,  who  made  me 
a  present  of  it." 

"  I  am  sorry  for  that,  Mr.  Drood."  Neville  apologizes,  with  a 
real  intention  to  apologize ;  "  if  I  had  known  I  was  in  the  artist's 
presence " 

"  Oh,  a  joke,  sir,  a  mere  joke,"  Edwin  cuts  in,  with  a  provoking 
yawn.  "  A  little  humoring  of  Pussy's  points !  I'm  going  to 
paint  her  gravely,  one  of  these  days,  if  she's  good." 

The  air  of  leisurely  patronage  and  indifference  with  which  this 
is  said,  as  the  speaker  throws  himself  back  in  a  chair  and  clasps 
his  hands  at  the  back  of  his  head,  as  a  rest  for  it,  is  very  exas- 
perating to  the  excitable  and  excited  Neville.  Jasper  looks 
observantly  from  the  one  to  the  other,  slightly  smiles,  and  turns 

£ 


50  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

liis  back  to  mix  a  jug  of  mulled  wine  at  tlie  fire.     It  seems  to 
require  much,  mixing  and  compounding. 

"  I  suppose,  Mr.  Neville,"  says  Edwin,  quick  to  resent  tlio 
indignant  protest  against  himself  in  the  face  of  young  Landless, 
which  is  fully  as  visible  as  the  portrait,  or  the  fire,  or  the  lamp : 
"  I  suppose  that  if  you  painted  the  picture  of  your  lady  love " 

"  I  can't  paint,"  is  the  hasty  interruption. 

"  That's  your  misfortune,  and  not  your  fault.  You  would  if 
you  could.  But  if  you  could,  I  suppose  you  would  make  her  (no 
matter  what  she  was  in  realit}^),  Juno,  Minerva,  Diana,  and  Venus, 
all  in  one.     Eh'?" 

"  I  have  no  lady  love,  and  I  can't  say." 

"  If  I  were  to  try  my  hand,"  says  Edwin,  with  a  boyish  boast- 
fulness  getting  up  in  him,  "  on  a  portrait  of  Miss  Landless — in 
earnest,  mind  you;  in  earnest — you  should  see  what  I  could 
do!" 

"  My  sister's  consent  to  sit  for  it  being  first  got,  I  suppose  ?  As 
it  never  will  be  got,  I  am  afraid  I  shall  never  see  what  you  can 
do.     I  must  bear  the  loss." 

Jasper  turns  round  from  the  fire,  fills  a  large  goblet  glass  for 
Neville,  fills  a  large  goblet  glass  for  Edwin,  and  hands  each  hi& 
own  ;  then  fills  for  himself,  saying  : 

"  Come,  Mr.  Neville,  we  are  to  drink  to  my  Nephew,  Ned.  As 
it  is  his  foot  that  is  in  the  stirrup — metaphorically— our  stirrup- 
cup  is  to  be  devoted  to  him.     Ned,  my  dearest  fellow,  my  love !" 

Jasper  sets  the  example  of  nearly  emptying  his  glass,  and  Neville 
follows  it.  Edwin  Drood  aajs  "  Thank  you  both  very  much,"  and 
follows  the  double  example. 

"  Look  at  him !"  cries  Jasper,  stretching  out  his  hand  ad- 
miringly and  tenderly,  though  rallyingly  too.  "See  where  he 
lounges  so  easily,  Mr.  Neville !  The  world  is  all  before  him  where 
to  choose.  A  life  of  stirring  work  and  interest,  a  life  of  change 
and  excitement,  a  life  of  domestic  ease  and  love !     Look  at  him !" 

Edwin  Drood's  face  has  become  quickly  and  remarkably  flushed 
by  the  wine ;  so  has  the  face  of  Neville  Landless.  Edwin  still 
sits  thrown  back  in  his  chair,  making  that  rest  of  clasped  hands 
for  his  head. 

"  See  how  little  he  heeds  it  all !"  Jasper  proceeds  in  a  bantering 
vein.  "  It  is  hardly  worth  his  while  to  pluck  the  golden  fruit 
that  hangs  ripe  on  the  tree  for  him.  And  yet  consider  the 
contrast,  Mr.  Neville.  You  and  I  have  no  prospect  of  stirring 
work  and  interest,  or  of  change  and  excitement,  or  of  domestic 
ease  and  love.  You  and  I  have  no  prospect  (unless  you  are  more 
fortunate  than  I  am,  which  may  easily  be),  but  the  tedious,  un- 
changing round  of  this  dull  jilace." 

"  Uj^on  my  soul,  Jack,"  says  Edwin,  comj^lacently,  "  I  feel  quite 
apologetic  for  having  my  way  smoothed  as  you  describe.  But 
you  know  what  I  know.  Jack,  and  it  may  not  be  so  very  easy  as 
it  seems,  after  all.  May  it.  Pussy?"  To  the  portrait,  with  a 
snap  of  his  thumb  and  finger.  "  We  have  got  to  hit  it  off  yet ; 
haven't  we,  Pussy  ?     You  know  what  I  mean.  Jack." 

His  speech  has  become  thick  and  indistinct.     Jasper,  quiet  and 


DAGGERS   DRAWN.  51 

self-possessed,  looks  to  Neville,  as  expecting  his  answer  or  com- 
ment. When  Neville  speaks,  his  speech  is  also  thick  and  in- 
distinct. 

"  It  migrht  have  been  better  for  Mr.  Drood  to  have  known  some 
hardships,"  he  says,  defiantly. 

"  Pray,"  retorts  Edwin,  turning  merely  his  eyes  in  that  direc- 
tion, "  pray  why  might  it  have  been  better  for  Mr.  Drood  to 
have  known  some  hardships  ?" 

"  Aye,"  Jasper  assents  with  an  air  of  interest ;  "  let  ns  know 
why  ?" 

"  Because  they  might  have  made  him  more  sensible,"  says 
Neville,  "  of  good  fortune  that  is  not  by  any  means  necessarily  the 
result  of  his  own  merits." 

Mr.  Jasper  quickly  looks  to  his  nephew  for  his  rejoinder. 

"  Have  you  inovm  hardships,  may  I  ask  ?"  says  Edwin  Drood, 
sitting  upright. 

Mr.  Jasper  quickly  looks  to  the  other  for  his  retort. 

"  I  have." 

"And  what  have  they  made  you  sensible  of?" 

Mr.  Jasper's  play  of  eyes  between  the  two,  holds  good  throughout 
the  dialogue,  to  the  end. 

"  I  have  told  you  once  before  to-night." 

"  You  have  done  nothing  of  the  sort." 

"  I  tell  you  I  have.  That  you  take  a  great  deal  too  much  upon 
yourself." 

"  You  added  something  else  to  that,  if  I  remember  ?" 

"  Yes,  I  did  say  something  else." 

"  Say  it  again." 

"  I  said  that  in  the  part  of  the  world  I  come  from,  you  would  be 
called  to  account  for  it." 

"  Only  there  ?"  cries  Edwin  Drood,  with  a  contemptuous  laugh. 
"  A  long  way  off,  T  believe  ?  Yes ;  I  see  !  That  part  of  the  world 
is  at  a  safe  distance." 

"  Say  here,  then,"  rejoins  the  other,  rising  in  a  fury.  "  Say 
anywhere!  Your  vanity  is  intolerable,  your  conceit  is  beyond 
endurance,  you  talk  as  if  you  were  some  rare  and  precious  prize, 
instead  of  a  common  boaster.  You  are  a  common  fellow,  and  a 
common  boaster." 

"Pooh,  pooh,"  says  Edwin  Drood,  equally  furious,  but  more 
collected ;  "  how  should  you  know  ?  You  may  know  a  black 
common  fellow,  or  a  black  common  boaster,  when  you  see  him 
(and  no  doubt  you  have  a  large  acquaintance  that  way)  ;  but  you 
are  no  judge  of  white  men." 

This  insulting  allusion  to  his  dark  skin  infuriates  Neville  to 
that  violent  degree,  that  he  flings  the  dregs  of  his  wine  at  Edwin 
Drood,  and  is  in  the  act  of  flinging  the  goblet  after  it,  when  his 
arm  is  caught  in  the  nick  of  time  by  Jasper. 

"Ned,  my  dear  fellow!"  he  cries  in  a  loud  voice;  "I  entreat 
you,  I  command  you,  to  be  still !"  There  has  been  a  rush  of  all 
the  three,  and  a  clattering  of  glasses  and  overturning  of  chairs. 
"Mr.  Neville,  for  shame!  Give  this  glass  to  me.  Open  your 
hand,  sir.     I  will  have  it !" 

E  2 


52  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

But  Keville  tlirows  liim  oif,  and  pauses  for  an  instant,  in  a 
raging  passion,  with  the  goblet  yet  in  his  uplifted  hand.  Then,  he 
dashes  it  down  under  the  grate,  with  such  force  that  the  broken 
splinters  fly  out  again  in  a  shower  ;  and  he  leaves  the  house. 

When  he  first  emerges  into  the  night  air,  nothing  around  him  is 
still  or  steady ;  nothing  around  him  shows  like  what  it  is  ;  he  only 
knows  that  he  stands  with  a  bare  head  in  the  midst  of  a  blood-red 
whirl,  waiting  to  be  struggled  with,  and  to  struggle  to  the 
death. 

But,  nothing  happening,  and  the  moon  looking  down  upon  him 
as  if  he  were  dead  after  a  fit  of  wrath,  he  holds  his  steam-hammer 
beating  head  and  heart,  and  staggers  away.  Then,  he  becomes 
half  conscious  of  having  heard  himself  bolted  and  barred  out,  like 
a  dangerous  animal ;   and  thinks  what  shall  he  do  ? 

Some  wildly  passionate  ideas  of  the  river,  dissolve  under  the 
spell  of  the  moonlight  on  the  Cathedral  and  the  graves,  and  the 
remembrance  of  his  sister,  and  the  thought  of  what  he  owes  to  the 
good  man  who  has  but  that  very  day  won  his  confidence  and  given 
him  his  pledge.  He  repairs  to  Minor  Canon  Corner,  and  knocks 
softly  at  the  door. 

It  is  Mr.  Crisparkle's  custom  to  sit  up  last  of  the  earl}^  household, 
very  softly  touching  his  piano  and  practising  his  favourite  parts  in 
concerted  vocal  music.  The  south  wind  that  goes  where  it  lists, 
by  way  of  Minor  Canon  Corner  on  a  still  night,  is  not  more  sub- 
dued than  Mr.  Crisparkle  at  such  times,  regardful  of  the  slumbers 
of  the  china  shepherdess. 

His  knock  is  immediately  ansv\''ered  by  Mr.  Crisparkle  himself. 
When  he  opens  the  door,  candle  in  hand,  his  cheerful  face  falls, 
and  disappointed  amazement  is  in  it. 

"  Mr,  Neville !     In  this  disorder !     Where  have  you  been  ?" 

"  I  have  been  to  Mr.  Jasper's,  sir.     With  his  nephew." 

"  Come  in." 

The  Minor  Canon  props  him  by  the  elbow  with  a  strong  hand 
(in  a  strictly  scientific  manner,  worthy  of  his  morning  trainings), 
and  turns  him  into  his  own  little  book-room,  and  shuts  the 
door. 

"  I  have  begun  ill,  sir.     I  have  begun  dreadfully  ill." 

"  Too  true.     You  are  not  sober,  Mr.  Neville." 

"  I  am  afraid  I  am  not,  sir,  though  I  can  satisfy  you  at  another 
time  that  I  have  had  very  little  indeed  to  drink,  and  that  it  over- 
came me  in  the  strangest  and  most  sudden  manner." 

"  Mr.  Neville,  Mr.  Neville,"  says  the  Minor  Canon,  shaking  his 
head  with  a  sorrowful  smile  ;  "  I  have  heard  that  said  before," 

"I  think — my  mind  is  much  confused,  but  I  think — it  is  equally 
true  of  Mr.  Jasper's  nephew,  sir," 

"  Very  likely,"  is  the  dry  rejoinder. 

"  We  quarrelled,  sir.  He  insulted  me  most  grossly.  He  had 
heated  that  tigerish  blood  I  told  you  of  to-day,  before  then." 

"  Mr.  Neville,"  rejoins  the  Minor  Canon,  mildly,  but  firmly  :  "  I 
request  you  not  to  speak  to  me  with  that  clenched  right  hand. 
Unclench  it,  if  jon  please." 

"  He  goaded  me,  sir,"  pursues  the  young  man,  instanth'-  obeying, 


DAGGEES   DKAWN.  53 

"  beyond  my  power  of  endurance.  I  cannot  say  whether  or  no 
he  meant  it  at  first,  bnt  he  did  it.  He  certainly  meant  it  at  last. 
In  short,  sir,"  with  an  irrepressible  outburst,  "  in  the  passion  into 
which  he  lashed  me,  I  would  have  cut  him  down  if  I  could,  and  I 
tried  to  do  it." 

"  You  have  clenched  that  hand  again,"  is  Mr.  Crisparkle's  quiet 
commentary. 

"  I  beg  your  pardon,  sir," 

"  You  know  your  room,  for  I  showed  it  to  you  before  dinner  ;  but 
I  will  accompany  you  to  it  once  more.  Your  arm,  if  3'ou  please. 
Softly,  for  the  house  is  all  a-bed." 

Scooping  his  hand  into  the  same  scientific  elbow-rest  as  before, 
and  backing  it  up  with  the  inert  strength  of  his  arm,  as  skillfuly  as 
a  Police  Expert,  and  with  an  apparent  repose  quite  unattainable 
by  Novices,  Mr.  Crisparkle  conducts  his  pupil  to  the  pleasant  and 
orderly  old  room  prepared  for  him.  Arrived  there,  the  young  man 
throws  himself  into  a  chair,  and,  flinging  his  arms  upon  his  reading- 
table,  rests  his  head  upon  them  with  an  air  of  wretched  self- 
reproach. 

The  gentle  Minor  Canon  has  had  it  in  his  thoughts  to  leave  the 
room,  without  a  word.  But,  looking  round  at  the  door,  and  seeing 
this  dejected  figure,  he  turns  back  to  it,  touches  it  with  a  mild 
hand,  and  says  "  Good  night !"  A  sob  is  his  only  acknowledg- 
ment. He  might  have  had  many  a  worse ;  perhaps,  could  have 
had  few  better. 

Another  soft  knock  at  the  outer  door,  attracts  his  attention  as  he 
goes  down  stairs.  He  opens  it  to  Mr.  Jasper,  holding  in  his  hand 
the  pupil's  hat. 

"  We  have  had  an  awful  scene  with  him,"  ss^js  Jasper,  in  a  low 
voice. 

"  Has  it  been  so  bad  as  that  ?" 

"  Murderous !" 

Mr.  Crisparkle  remonstrates  :  "  Xo,  no,  no.  Do  not  use  such 
strong  words." 

"  He  might  have  laid  my  dear  boy  dead  at  my  feet.  It  is  no 
fault  of  his,  that  he  did  not.  But  that  I  was,  through  the  mercy 
of  God,  swift  and  strong  with  him,  he  would  have  cut  him  down 
on  my  hearth." 

The  phrase  smites  home.  "  Ah  !"  thinks  Mr.  Crisparkle.  "  His 
own  words !" 

"  Seeing  what  I  have  seen  to-night,  and  hearing  what  I  have 
heard,"  adds  Jasper,  with  great  earnestness,  "  I  shall  never  know 
peace  of  mind  when  there  is  danger  of  those  two  coming  togethei" 
with  no  one  else  to  interfere.  It  was  horrible.  There  is  something 
of  the  tiger  in  his  dark  blood." 

"  Ah  !"  thinks  Mr.  Crisparkle.     "  So  he  said  !" 

"  You,  my  dear  sir,"  pursues  Jasper,  taking  his  hand,  "  even 
you,  have  accepted  a  dangerous  charge." 

"  You  need  have  no  fear  for  me,  Jasper,"  returns  Mr.  Crisparkle, 
with  a  quiet  smile.     "  I  have  none  for  myself." 

"  I  have  none  for  myself,"  returns  Jasper,  with  an  emphasis  on 
the  last  pronoun,  "  because  I  am  not,  nor  am  I  in  the  way  of  being, 


54  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

tlie  object  of  his  hostility.     But  you  may  be,  and  my  dear  boy 
has  been.     Good  night !" 

Mr.  Crisparkle  goes  in,  with  the  hat  that  has  so  easily,  so  almost 
imperceiDtibly,  acquired  the  right  to  be  hung  up  in  his  hall ;  hangs 
it  up ;  and  goes  thoughtfully  to  bed. 


CHAPTEE  IX. 

BIRDS    IN    THE    BUSH. 

EosA,  having  no  relation  that  she  knew  of  in  the  world,  had, 
from  the  seventh  year  of  her  age,  known  no  home  but  the  Nuns' 
House,  and  no  mother  but  Miss  Twinkleton.  Her  remembrance 
of  her  own  mother  was  of  a  pretty  little  creature  like  herself  ("not 
much  older  than  herself  it  seemed  to  her),  who  had  been  brought 
home  in  her  father's  arms,  drowned.  The  fatal  accident  had  hap- 
pened at  a  party  of  pleasure.  Every  fold  and  color  in  the  pretty 
summer  dress,  and  even  the  long  wet  hair,  with  scattered  petals 
of  ruined  flowers  still  clinging  to  it,  as  the  dead  young  figure,  in 
its  sad,  sad  beauty  lay  upon  the  bed,  were  fixed  indelibly  in  Eosa's 
recollection.  So  were  the  wild  despair  and  the  subsequent  bowed- 
down  grief  of  her  poor  young  father,  who  died  brokenhearted  on 
the  first  anniversary  of  that  hard  day. 

The  betrothal  of  Eosa  grew  out  of  the  soothing  of  his  year  of 
mental  distress  by  his  fast  friend  and  old  college  companion,  Drood : 
who  likewise  had  been  left  a  widower  in  his  youth.  But  he,  too, 
went  the  silent  road  into  which  all  earthly  pilgrimages  merge, 
some  sooner,  and  some  later ;  and  thus  the  young  couple  had  come 
to  be  as  they  were. 

The  atmosphere  of  pity  surrounding  the  little  orphan  girl  when 
she  first  came  to  Cloisterham,  had  never  cleared  away.  It  had 
taken  brighter  hues  as  she  grew  older,  happier,  prettier  ;  now  it 
had  been  golden,  now  roseate,  and  now  azure ;  but  it  had  always 
adorned  her  with  some  soft  light  of  its  own.  The  general  desire 
to  console  and  caress  her,  had  caused  her  to  be  treated  in  the  begin- 
ning as  a  child  much  j^ounger  than  her  years ;  the  same  desire 
had  caused  her  to  be  still  petted  when  she  was  a  child  no  longer. 
Who  should  be  her  favorite,  who  should  anticij)ate  this  or  that 
small  present,  or  do  her  this  or  that  small  service ;  who  should 
take  her  home  for  the  llolida3^s ;  who  should  write  to  her  the 
oftenest  when  they  were  separated,  and  whom  she  would  most 
rejoice  to  see  again  when  the}^  were  reunited ;  even  these  gentle 
rivalries  were  not  without  their  slight  dashes  of  bitterness  in  the 
Nuns'  House.  Well  for  the  poor  Kuns  in  their  day,  if  they  hid 
no  harder  strife  under  their  veils  and  rosaries ! 

Thus  Eosa  had  grown  to  be  an  amiable,  giddy,  wilful,  winning 
little  creature  ;  spoilt,  in  the  sense  of  counting  upon  kindness 
from  all  around  her  ;  but  not  in  the  sense  of  repaying  it  with  in- 
difference. Possessing  an  exhaustless  well  of  affection  in  her 
nature,  its  s]3arkling  waters  had  freshened  and  brightened  the 
Nuns'  House  for  years,  and  yet  its  depths  had  never  yet  been 


BIEDS   IN   THE   BUSH.  55 

moved  :  what  miglit  l^etido  when  that  came  to  pass  ;  what  de- 
veloping changes  might  fall  upon  the  heedless  head,  and  light 
heart  then  ;  remained  to  be  seen. 

By  what  means  the  news  that  there  had  iDcen  a  quarrel  between 
the  two  young  men  over-night,  involving  even  some  kind  of  on- 
slaught by  Mr.  Neville  upon  Edwin  Drood,  got  into  Miss  Twinkle- 
ton's  establishment  before  breakfast,  it  is  impossible  to  ssbj. 
Whether  it  was  brought  in  by  the  birds  of  the  air,  or  came  blowing 
in  with  the  very  air  itself,  when  the  casement  windows  were  set 
open ;  whether  the  baker  brought  it  kneaded  into  the  bread,  or 
the  milkman  delivered  it  as  part  of  the  adulteration  of  his  milk ; 
or  the  housemaids,  beating  the  dust  out  of  their  mats  against  the 
gateposts,  received  it  in  exchange  deposited  on  the  mats  by  the 
town  atmosphere ;  certain  it  is  that  the  news  permeated  every 
gable  of  the  old  building  before  Miss  Twinkleton  was  down, 
and  that  Miss  Twinkleton  herself  received  it  through  Mrs.  Tisher, 
while  yet  in  the  act  of  dressing ;  or  (as  she  might  have  expressed 
the  i3hrase  to  a  parent  or  guardian  of  a  mythological  turn),  of 
sacrificing  to  the  Graces. 

Miss  Landless's  brother  had  thrown  a  bottle  at  Mr.  Edwin  Drood. 

Miss  Landless's  brother  had  thrown  a  knife  at  Mr.  Edwin  Drood. 

A  knife  became  suggestive  of  a  fork,  and  Miss  Landless's  brother 
.  had  thrown  a  fork  at  Mr.  Edwin  Drood. 

As  in  the  governing  precedent  of  Peter  Piper,  alleged  to  have 
picked  the  peck  of  pickled  pepper,  it  was  held  physically  desirable 
to  have  evidence  of  the  existence  of  the  peck  of  pickled  pepper 
which  Peter  Piper  was  alleged  to  have  picked  :  so,  in  this  case,  it 
was  held  psychologically  important  to  know  Why  Miss  Landless's 
brother  threw  a  bottle,  knife,  or  fork — or  bottle,  knife,  and  fork — 
for  the  cook  had  been  given  to  understand  it  was  all  three — at 
Mr.  Edwin  Drood  ? 

Well,  then.  Miss  Landless's  brother  had  said  he  admired  Miss 
Bud.  Mr.  Edwin  Drood  had  said  to  Miss  Landless's  brother 
that  he  had  no  business  to  admire  Miss  Bud.  Miss  Landless's 
brother  had  then  "  up'd  "  (this  was  the  cook's  exact  information), 
with  the  bottle,  knife,  fork,  and  decanter  (the  decanter  now  coolly 
flying  at  everybody's  head,  without  the  least  introduction),  and 
ihrown  them  all  at  Mr.  Edwin  Drood. 

Poor  little  Eosa  put  a  forefinger  into  each  of  her  ears  when  these 
rumours  began  to  circulate,  and  retired  into  a  corner,  beseeching 
not  to  be  told  any  more ;  but  Miss  Landless,  begging  permission 
of  Miss  Twinkleton  to  go  and  speak  with  her  brother,  and  pretty 
plainly  showing  that  she  would  take  it  if  it  were  not  given,  struck 
out  the  more  definite  course  of  going  to  Mr.  Crisparkle's  for 
accurate  intelligence. 

When  she  came  back  (being  first  closeted  with  Miss  Twinkleton, 
in  order  that  anything  objectionable  in  her  tidings  might  be 
retained  by  that  discreet  filter),  she  imparted  to  Eosa  only,  what 
had  taken  place  ;  dwelling  with,  a  flushed  cheek  on  the  provocation 
her  brother  had  received,  but  almost  limiting  it  to  that  last  gross 
affront  as  crowning  "  some  other  words  between  them,"  and,  out  of 
•consideration  for  her  new  friend,  passing  lightly  over  the  fact 


56  THE    MYSTEEY   OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

that  the  other  words  had  originated  in  her  lover's  taking  things- 
in  general  so  very  easily.  To  Rosa  direct,  she  brought  a  petition 
from  her  brother  that  she  would  forgive  him ;  and,  having  delivered 
it  with  sisterly  earnestness,  made  an  end  of  the  subject. 

It  was  reserved  for  Miss  Twinkleton  to  tone  down  the  public 
mind  of  the  Nuns'  House.  That  lady,  therefore,  entering  in  a 
stately  manner  what  plebeians  might  have  called  the  school-room^ 
but  what,  in  the  patrician  language  of  the  head  of  the  Nuns' 
House,  was  euphuistically,  not  to  say  round-aboutedly,  deno- 
minated "  the  apartment  allotted  to  study,"  and  saying  with  a 
forensic  air,  "  Ladies !"  all  rose.  Mrs.  Tisher  at  the  same  time 
grouped  herself  behind  her  chief,  as  representing  Queen  Eliza- 
beth's first  historical  female  friend  at  Tilbury  Fort.  Miss 
Twinkleton  then  ^^i^oceeded  to  remark  that  Eumour,  Ladies,  had 
been  rejDresented  by  the  Bard  of  Avon — needless  were  it  to  mention 
the  immortal  Shakespeare,  also  called  the  Swan  of  his  native 
river,  not  improbably  with  some  reference  to  the  ancient  super- 
stition that  that  bird  of  graceful  plumage  (Miss  Jennings  will 
please  stand  upright)  sang  sweetly  on  the  approach  of  death,  for 
which  we  have  no  ornithological  authority, — Rumour,  Ladies,  had 
been  represented  by  that  bard — hem ! — • 


"  wlio  drew 
The  celebrated  Jew 


)j 


as  painted  full  of  tongues.  Rumour  in  Cloisterham  (Miss  Ferdinand 
will  honour  me  with  her  attention)  was  no  exception  to  the  great 
limner's  portrait  of  Rumour  elsewhere.  A  slight  fracas  between  two 
young  gentlemen  occurring  last  night  within  a  hundred  miles  of 
these  peaceful  walls  (Miss  Ferdinand,  being  apparently  incorrigible, 
will  have  the  kindness  to  write  out  this  evening,  in  the  original  lan- 
guage, the  first  four  fables  of  our  vivacious  neighbour.  Monsieur  La 
Fontaine)  had  been  very  grossly  exaggerated  by  Rumour's  voice. 
In  the  first  alarm  and  anxiety  arising  from  our  S3anpathy  with  a 
sweet  young  friend,  not  wholly  to  be  dissociated  from  one  of  the- 
gladiators  in  the  bloodless  arena  in  question  (the  impropriety  of 
Miss  Reynolds's  appearing  to  stab  herself  in  the  band  with  a  pin, 
is  far  too  obvious,  and  too  glaringly  unlady-like,  to  be  pointed  out), 
we  descended  from  our  maiden  elevation  to  discuss  this  uncon- 
genial and  this  unfit  theme.  Responsible  inquiries  having  assured 
us  that  it  was  but  one  of  those  "  airy  nothings  "  pointed  at  by 
the  Poet  (whose  name  and  date  of  birth  Miss  Giggles  will  supply 
within  half  an  hour),  we  would  now  discard  the  subject,  and  con- 
centrate our  minds  upon  the  grateful  labours  of  the  day. 

But  the  subject  so  survived  all  day,  nevertheless,  that  Miss 
Ferdinand  got  into  new  trouble  by  surreptitiously  clapping  on  a 
paper  moustache  at  dinner-time,  and  going  through  the  motions 
of  aiming  a  water-bottle  at  Miss  Giggles,  who  drew  a  table-spoon 
in  defence. 

Now,  Rosa  thought  of  this  unlucky  quarrel  a  great  deal,  and 
thought  of  it  with  an  uncomfortable  feeling  that  she  was  involved 
in  it,  as  cause,  or  consequence,  or  what  not,  through  being  in  a 
false  position  altogether  as  to  her  marriage  engagement.     Never 


BIRDS   IN   THE   BUSH.  57 

free  from  such  uneasiness  when  she  was  with  her  affianced  hus- 
band, it  was  not  likely  that  she  would  be  free  from  it  when  they 
were  apart.  To-day,  too,  she  was  cast  in  uj^on  herself,  and 
deprived  of  the  relief  of  talking  freely  with  her  new  friend, 
because  the  quarrel  had  been  with  Helena's  brother,  and  Helena, 
undisguisedly  avoided  the  subject  as  a  delicate  and  difficult  one  to 
herself.  At  this  critical  time,  of  all  times,  Eosa's  guardian  was 
announced  as  having  come  to  see  her. 

Mr.  Grewgious  had  been  well  selected  for  his  trust,  as  a  man  of 
incorruptible  integrity,  but  certainly  for  no  other  appropriate 
quality  discernible  on  the  surface.  He  was  an  arid,  sandy  man, 
who,  if  he  had  been  put  into  a  grinding-mill,  looked  as  if  he 
would  have  ground  immediately  into  high-dried  snuff'.  He  had  a 
scanty  flat  crop  of  hair,  in  color  and  consistency  like  some  very 
mangy  yellow  fur  tippet ;  it  was  so  unlike  hair,  that  it  must  have 
been  a  wig,  but  for  the  stupendous  improbability  of  anyl)ody's 
voluntarily  sporting  such  a  head.  The  little  play  of  feature  that 
his  face  presented,  was  cut  deep  into  it,  in  a  few  hard  curves 
that  made  it  more  like  work ;  and  he  had  certain  notches  in  his 
forehead,  which  looked  as  though  Nature  had  been  about  to  touch 
them  into  sensibility  or  refinement,  when  she  had  impatiently 
thrown  away  the  chisel,  and  said  :  "  I  really  cannot  be  worried 
to  finish  off  this  man  ;  let  him  go  as  he  is." 

With  too  great  length  of  throat  at  his  upper  end,  and  too  much 
ankle-bone  and  heel  at  his  lower  ;  with  an  aAvkward  and  hesitating 
manner ;  with  a  shambling  walk,  and  with  what  is  called  a  near 
sight — which  perhaps  prevented  his  observing  how  much  white 
cotton  stocking  he  displayed  to  the  public  eye,  in  contrast  with  his 
black  suit — Mr.  Grewgious  still  had  some  strange  capacity  in  him 
of  making  on  the  whole  an  agreeable  impression. 

Mr.  GreAvgious  was  discovered  by  his  ward,  much  discomfited  by 
being  in  Miss  Twinkleton's  company  in  Miss  Twinldeton's  own 
sacred  room.  Dim  forebodings  of  being  examined  in  something, 
and  not  coming  well  out  of  it,  seemed  to  oppress  the  poor  gentle- 
man when  found  in  these  circumstances. 

'  "  My  dear,  how  do  you  do  ?  I  am  glad  to  see  you.  My  dear,  how 
much  improved  you  are.    Permit  me  to  hand  you  a  chair,  my  dear." 

Miss  Twinkleton  rose  at  her  little  writing-table,  saying,  with 
general  sweetness,  as  to  the  polite  Universe  :  "  Will  you  permit  me 
to  retire  ?" 

"  By  no  means  madam,  on  my  account.  I  beg  that  you  will 
not  move." 

"  I  must  entreat  permission  to  move"  returned  Miss  Twinkleton, 
repeating  the  word  with  a  charming  grace  ;  "  but  I  will  not  with- 
draw, since  you  are  so  obliging.  If  I  wheel  my  desk  to  this  corner 
window,  shall  I  be  in  the  way  ?" 

"  Madam  !     In  the  way  !" 

"  You  are  very  kind.  Eosa,  my  dear,  you  will  be  under  no 
restraint,  I  am  sure." 

Here  Mr.  Grewgious,  left  by  the  fire  with  Eosa,  said  again  • 
"  My  dear,  how  do  you  do  ?  I  am  glad  to  see  you,  my  dear."  And 
having  waited  for  her  to  sit  down,  sat  down  himself. 


58  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN  DROOD. 

"  My  visits,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  are,  like  tliose  of  tlie  angels 
— not  that  I  compare  myself  to  an  angel." 

"  No,  sir,"  said  Eosa. 

"  Not  by  any  means,"  assented  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  I  merely 
refer  to  my  visits,  which  are  few  and  far  between.  The  angelsi 
are,  we  know  very  well,  upstairs." 

Miss  Twinkleton  looked  round  with  a  kind  of  stiff  stare. 

"  I  refer,  my  dear,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  laying  his  hand  on 
Eosa's,  as  the  possibility  thrilled  through  his  frame  of  his  other- 
wise seeming  to  take  the  awful  liberty  of  calling  Miss  Twinkleton 
my  dear  ;  "I  refer  to  the  other  young  ladies." 

Miss  Twinkleton  resumed  her  writing. 

Mr.  Grewgious,  with  a  sense  of  not  having  managed  his  opening 
point  quite  as  neatly  as  he  might  have  desired,  smoothed  his  head 
from  back  to  front  as  if  he  had  just  dived,  and  were  pressing  the 
water  out — this  smoothing  action,  however  superfluous,  was 
habitual  with  him — and  took  a  pocket-book  from  his  coat-pocket, 
and  a  stump  of  black-lead  pencil  from  his  waistcoat  pocket. 

"  I  made,"  he  said,  turning  the  leaves  :  "  I  made  a  guiding  me- 
morandum or  so — as  I  usually  do,  for  I  have  no  conversational 
powers  whatever — to  which  I  will,  with  your  permission,  my  dear, 
refer.  '  Well  and  happy.'  Truly.  You  are  well  and  happy,  my 
dear  ?    You  look  so." 

"  Yes,  indeed,  sir,"  answered  Eosa. 

"  For  which,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  with  a  bend  of  his  head 
towards  the  corner  window,  "  our  warmest  acknowledgments  are 
due,  and  I  am  sure  are  rendered,  to  the  maternal  kindness  and  the 
constant  care  and  consideration  of  the  lady  whom  I  have  now  the 
honor  to  see  before  me." 

This  point,  again,  made  but  a  lame  departure  from  Mr.  GreA\"- 
gious,  and  never  got  to  its  destination ;  for,  Miss  Twinkleton, 
feeling  that  the  courtesies  required  her  to  be  by  this  time  quite 
outside  the  conversation,  was  biting  the  end  of  her  pen,  and 
looking  upward,  as  waiting  for  the  descent  of  an  idea  from  any 
member  of  the  Celestial  Nine  who  might  have  one  to  spare. 

Mr.  Grewgious  smoothed  his  smooth  head  again,  and  then  made 
another  reference  to  his  pocket-book ;  lining  out  '  well  and  happy  ' 
as  disposed  of. 

"  '  Founds,  shillings,  and  pence '  is  my  next  note.  A  dry 
subject  for  a  young  lady,  but  an  important  subject  too.  Life  is 
pounds,  shillings,  and  pence.  Death  is "  A  sudden  recol- 
lection of  the  death  of  her  two  parents  seemed  to  stop  him,  and  he 
said  in  a  softer  tone,  and  evidently  inserting  the  negative  as  an 
after-thought :  "  Death  is  not  pounds,  shillings,  and  pence." 

His  voice  was  as  hard  and  dry  as  himself,  and  Fancy  might 
have  ground  it  straight,  like  himself,  into  high-dried  snuif.  And 
yet,  through  the  very  limited  means  of  expression  that  he  pos- 
sessed, he  seemed  to  express  kindness.  If  Nature  had  but  finished 
him  off,  kindness  might  have  been  recognisable  in  his  face  at  this 
moment.  But  if  the  notches  in  his  forehead  wouldn't  fuse  together, 
and  if  his  face  would  work  and  couldn't  i^lay,  what  could  he  do, 
poor  man ! 


BIRDS   IN   THE   BUSH.  59 

"  '  Pounds,  sliilliugs,  and  pence.'  You  find  3'our  allowance  always 
sufficient  for  your  wants,  my  dear  ?" 

Kosa  wanted  for  nothing,  and  therefore  it  was  ample. 

"  And  you  are  not  in  debt  ?" 

Eosa  laughed  at  the  idea  of  being  in  debt.  It  seemed,  to  her 
inexperience,  a  comical  vagary  of  the  imagination.  Mr.  Grewgious 
stretched  his  near  sight  to  be  sure  that  this  was  her  view  of  the 
case.  "  Ah !"  he  said,  as  comment,  with  a  furtive  glance  towards 
Miss  Twinkleton,  and  lining  out  pounds,  shillings,  and  pence  : 
"  I  spoke  of  having  got  among  the  angy.s  !     So  I  did  !" 

Eosa  felt  what  his  next  memorandum  would  prove  to  be,  and 
was  blushing  and  folding  a  crease  in  her  dress  with  one  em- 
barrassed hand,  long  before  he  found  it. 

"  '  Marriage.'  Hem !"  Mr.  Grewgious  carried  his  smoothing 
hand  down  over  his  eyes  and  nose,  and  even  chin,  before  drawing 
his  chair  a  little  nearer,  and  speaking  a  little  more  confidentially : 
"  I  now  touch,  my  dear,  upon  the  point  that  is  the  direct  cause  of 
my  troubling  you  with  the  present  visit.  Otherwise,  being  a 
particularly  Angular  man,  I  should  not  have  intruded  here.  I 
am  the  last  man  to  intrude  into  a  sphere  for  which  I  am  so 
entirely  unfitted.  I  feel,  on  these  premises,  as  if  I  was  a  bear — 
with  the  cramp— in  a  youthful  Cotillon." 

His  ungainliness  gave  him  enough  of  the  air  of  his  simile  to 
set  Eosa  off  laughing  heartily. 

"  It  strikes  you  in  the  same  light,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  with 
perfect  calmness.  "  Just  so.  To  return  to  my  memorandum. 
Mr.  Edwin  has  been  to  and  fro  here,  as  was  arranged.  You  have 
mentioned  that,  in  your  quarterly  letters  to  me.  And  you  like 
him,  and  he  likes  you." 

"  I  like  him  very  much,  sir,"  rejoined  Eosa. 

"  So  I  said,  my  dear,"  returned  her  guardian,  for  whose  car 
the  timid  emphasis  was  much  too  fine.  "  Good.  And  you  cor- 
respond." 

"  We  write  to  one  another,"  said  Eosa,  pouting,  as  she  recalled 
their  epistolary  differences. 

"  Such  is  the  meaning  that  I  attach  to  the  word  '  correspond  '  in 
this  application,  my  dear,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  Good.  All 
goes  well,  time  works  on,  and  at  this  next  Christmas  time  it  will 
become  necessary,  as  a  matter  of  form,  to  give  the  exemplary  lady 
in  the  corner  window,  to  whom  we  are  so  much  indebted,  business 
notice  of  your  departure  in  the  ensuing  half-year.  Your  relations 
with  her,  are  far  more  than  business  relations  no  doubt ;  but  a 
residue  of  business  remains  in  them,  and  business  is  business  ever. 
I  am  a  particularly  Angular  man,"  proceeded  Mr.  Grewgious,  as  if 
it  suddenly  occurred  to  him  to  mention  it,  "  and  I  am  not  used  to 
give  anything  away.  If,  for  these  two  reasons,  some  competent 
Proxy  would  give  you  awa}^,  I  should  take  it  very  kindly." 

Eosa  intimated,  with  her  eyes  on  the  ground,  that  she  thought 
a  substitute  might  be  found,  if  required. 

"  Surely,  surely,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  For  instance,  the 
gentleman  who  teaches  Dancing  here — he  would  know  how  to  do 
it.  with  graceful  propriety.     He  would  advance  and  retire  in  a 


CO  THE   MYSTEEY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

manner  satisftictory  to  the  feelings  of  the  officiating  clergyman, 
and  of  yourself,  and  the  bridegroom,  and  all  jDarties  concerned. 
I  am — I  am  a  particularly  Angular  man,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  as 
if  he  had  made  up  his  mind  to  screw  it  out  at  last :  "  and  should 
only  blunder." 

Eosa  sat  still  and  silent.  Perhaps  her  mind  had  not  got  quite- 
so  far  as  the  ceremony  yet,  but  was  lagging  on  the  way  there. 

"  Memorandum,  '  Will.'  Now,  my  dear,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious, 
referring  to  his  notes,  disposing  of  '  marriage  '  with  his  jDencil,  and 
taking  a  paper  from  his  pocket :  "  although  I  have  before  possessed 
you  with  the  contents  of  your  father's  will,  I  think  it  right  at  this 
time  to  leave  a  certified  copy  of  it  in  your  hands.  And  although 
Mr.  Edwin  is  also  aware  of  its  contents,  I  think  it  right  at  this 
time  likewise  to  place  a  certified  co])j  of  it  in  Mr.  Jasper's 
hands " 

"  Not  in  his  own  ?"  asked  Eosa,  looking  up  quickly.  "  Cannot 
the  copy  go  to  Eddy  himself?" 

"  AVhy,  yes,  my  dear,  if  jow  particularly  wish  it ;  but  I  spoke  of 
Mr.  Jasper  as  being  his  trustee." 

"  I  do  particularly  wish  it,  if  you  please,"  said  Eosa,  hurriedly 
and  earnestly  ;  "  I  don't  like  Mr.  Jasper  to  come  between  us,  in  any 
way." 

"  It  is  natural,  I  suppose,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  that  your 
young  husband  should  be  all  in  all.  Yes.  You  observe  that  I 
say,  I  suppose.  The  fact  is,  I  am  a  particularly  Unnatural  man, 
and  I  don't  know  from  my  own  knowledge." 

Eosa  looked  at  him  with  some  wonder. 

"  I  mean,"  he  explained  "  that  young  ways  were  never  my  ways. 
I  was  the  only  oifspring  of  parents  far  advanced  in  life,  and  I  half 
believe  I  was  born  advanced  in  life  myself.  No  personality  is 
intended  towards  the  name  you  will  so  soon  change,  when  I 
remark  that  while  the  general  growth  of  people  seem  to  have 
come  into  existence,  buds,  I  seem  to  have  come  into  existence  a 
chip.  I  Avas  a  chip — and  a  very  dry  one — when  I  first  became  aware 
of  myself.  Eespecting  the  other  certified  copy,  your  wish  shall  be 
complied  with.  Eespecting  your  inheritance,  I  think  you  know 
all.  It  is  an  annuit}^  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  pounds.  The 
savings  upon  that  annuity,  and  some  other  items  to  your  credit, 
all  duly  carried  to  account,  with  vouchers,  will  place  you  in  pos- 
session of  a  lump-sum  of  money,  rather  exceeding  Seventeen 
Hundred  Pounds.  I  am  empowered  to  advance  the  cost  of  your 
preparations  for  your  marriage  out  of  that  fund.    All  is  told." 

"  Will  you  please  tell  me,"  said  Eosa,  taking  the  paper  with  a 
prettily  knitted  brow,  but  not  opening  it :  "  whether  I  am  right  in 
what  I  am  going  to  say  ?  I  can  understand  what  you  tell  me,  so 
very  much  better  than  what  I  read  in  law-writings.  My  poor 
papa  and  Eddy's  father  made  their  agreement  together,  as  very 
dear  and  firm  and  fast  friends,  in  order  that  we,  too,  might  be 
very  dear  and  firm  and  fast  friends  after  them  ?" 

"  Just  so." 

"  Eor  the  lasting  good  of  both  of  us,  and  the  lasting  happiness 
of  both  of  us  ?" 


BIRDS   IN   THE   BUSH.  61 

"  Just  so." 

"  That  we  miglit  be  to  one  another  even  much  more  than  they 
had  been  to  one  another  ?" 

"  Just  so." 

"  It  was  not  bound  upon  Eddy,  and  it  was  not  bound  upon  me, 
by  any  forfeit,  in  case " 

"  Don't  be  agitated,  my  dear.  In  the  case  that  it  brings  tears 
into  your  affectionate  eyes  even  to  picture  to  yourself — in  the  case 
of  your  not  marrying  one  another — no,  no  forfeiture  on  either  side. 
You  would  then  have  been  my  ward  until  you  were  of  age.  Ko 
worse  would  have  befallen  you.     Bad  enough  perhaps !" 

"  And  Eddy  ?" 

"  He  would  have  come  into  his  partnership  derived  from  his 
father,  and  into  its  arrears  to  his  credit  (if  any),  on  attaining  his 
majority,  just  as  now." 

Rosa  vfith.  her  perplexed  face  and  knitted  brow,  bit  the  corner 
of  her  attested  copy,  as  she  sat  with  her  head  on  one  side,  looking 
abstractedly  on  the  floor,  and  smoothing  it  with  her  foot. 

"  In  short,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  this  betrothal  is  a  wish,  a 
sentiment,  a  friendly  project,  tenderly  expressed  on  both  sides. 
That  it  was  strongly  felt,  and  that  there  was  a  lively  hope  that  it 
would  prosper,  there  can  be  no  doubt.  When  you  were  both 
children,  you  began  to  be  accustomed  to  it,  and  it  has  prospered. 
But  circumstances  alter  cases ;  and  I  made  this  visit  to-day,  partly, 
indeed  principally,  to  discharge  myself  of  the  duty  of  telling  you, 
my  dear,  that  two  young  people  can  only  be  betrothed  in  mar- 
riage (except  as  a  matter  of  convenience,  and  therefore  mockery 
and  misery),  of  their  own  free  will,  their  own  attachment,  and 
their  own  assurance  (it  may  or  may  not  prove  a  mistaken  one, 
but  we  must  take  our  chance  of  that),  that  they  are  suited  to 
each  other  and  will  make  each  other  happy.  Is  it  to  be  sup- 
posed, for  example,  that  if  either  of  your  fathers  were  living  now, 
and  had  any  mistrust  on  that  subject,  his  mind  would  not  be 
changed  by  the  change  of  circumstances  involved  in  the  change 
of  your  years  ?  Untenable,  unreasonable,  inconclusive,  and  pre 
jDOsterous !" 

Mr.  Grewgious  said  all  this,  as  if  he  were  reading  it  aloud;  or, 
still  more,  as  if  he  were  repeating  a  lesson.  So  expressionless  of 
any  approach  to  spontaneity  were  his  face  and  manner. 

"  I  have  now,  my  dear,"  he  added,  blurring  out  '  Will '  with  his 
p)encil,  "  discharged  myself  of  what  is  doubtless  a  formal  duty  in 
this  case,  but  still  a  duty  in  such  a  case.  Memorandum,  '  Wishes  :' 
My  dear,  is  there  any  wish  of  yours  that  I  can  further  ?" 

Eosa  shook  her  head,  with  an  almost  plaintive  air  of  hesitation 
in  want  of  help. 

"  Is  there  any  instruction  that  I  can  take  from  you  with  reference 
to  your  affairs  ?" 

"  I — I  should  like  to  settle  them  with  Eddy  first,  if  you  please," 
said  Eosa,  plaiting  the  crease  in  her  dress. 

"  Surely.  Surely,"  returned  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  You  two  should 
be  of  one  mind  in  all  things.  Is  the  young  gentleman  expected 
shortly  ?" 


62  THE   MYSTEPvY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

"  He  has  gone  away  only  tins  morning.  He  will  be  back  at 
Christmas." 

"  Nothing  conld  happen  better.  You  will,  on  his  return  at 
Christmas,  arrange  all  matters  of  detail  with  him  ;  you  will  then 
communicate  with  me ;  and  I  will  discharge  myself  (as  a  mere 
business  acquittance)  of  my  business  responsibilities  towards  the 
accomplished  lady  in  the  corner  window.  They  will  accrue 
at  that  season."  Blurring  pencil  once  .again.  "Memorandum 
'  Leave.'     Yes.     I  will  now,  my  dear,  take  my  leave." 

"  Could  I,"  said  Eosa,  rising,  as  he  jerked  out  of  his  chair  in  his 
ungainly  way :  "  could  I  ask  you,  most  kindly  to  come  to  me  at 
Christmas,  if  I  had  anything  particular  to  say  to  you  ?" 

"  Why,  certainly,  certainly,"  he  rejoined ;  apparently — if  such  a 
word  can  be  used  of  one  who  had  no  apparent  lights  or  shadows 
about  him — complimented  by  the  question.  "  As  a  particularly 
Angular  man,  I  do  not  fit  smoothly  into  the  social  circle,  and  con- 
sequently I  have  no  other  engagement  at  Christmas-time  than  to 
partake,  on  the  twenty-fifth,  of  a  boiled  turkey  and  celery  sauce 
with  a — with  a  particularly  Angular  clerk  I  have  the  good  fortune 
to  possess,  whose  father,  being  a  Norfolk  farmer,  sends  him  up  (the 
turkey  up),  as  a  present  to  me,  from  the  neighbourhood  of  Norwich. 
I  should  be  quite  proud  of  your  wishing  to  see  me,  my  dear.  As 
a  professional  Eeceiver  of  rents,  so  very  few  people  do  wish  to  see 
me,  that  the  novelty  would  be  bracing." 

For  his  ready  acquiescence,  the  grateful  Eosa  put  her  hands 
upon  his  shoulders,  stood  on  tiptoe,  and  instantly  kissed  him. 

"  Lord  bless  me  !"  cried  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  Thank  you,  my  dear ! 
The  honor  is  almost  equal  to  the  pleasure.  Miss  Twinkleton, 
Madam,  I  have  had  a  most  satisfactory  conversation  with  my 
ward,  and  I  will  now  release  you  from  the  incumbrance  of  my 
presence." 

"  Nay,  sir,"  rejoined  Miss  Twinkleton,  rising  with  a  gracious 
condescension  :  "  say  not  incumbrance.  Not  so,  by  any  means.  I 
cannot  permit  you  to  say  so." 

"  Thank  you,  madam.  I  have  read  in  the  newspapers,"  said 
Mr.  Grewgious,  stammering  a  little,  "  that  when  a  distinguished 
visitor  (not  that  I  am  one :  far  from  it),  goes  to  a  school  (not  that 
this  is  one :  far  from  it),  he  asks  for  a  holiday,  or  some  sort  of 
grace.  It  being  now  the  afternoon  in  the — College — of  which 
you  are  the  eminent  head,  the  young  ladies  might  gain  nothing, 
except  in  name,  by  having  the  rest  of  the  day  allowed  them.  But 
if  there  is  any  young  lady  at  all  under  a  cloud,  might  I 
solicit ?" 

"  Ah,  Mr.  Grewgious,  Mr.  Grewgious !"  cried  Miss  Twinkleton, 
with  a  chastely-rallying  forefinger.  "  Oh,  you  gentlemen,  you 
gentlemen !  Fie  for  shame,  that  you  are  so  hard  upon  us  poor 
maligned  disciplinarians  of  our  sex,  for  your  sakes !  But  as  Miss 
Ferdinand  is  at  present  weighed  down  by  an  incubus  " — Miss 
Twinkleton  might  have  said  a  pen-and-ink-ubus  of  writing  out 
Monsieur  La  Fontaine — "  go  to  her  Eosa,  my  dear,  and  tell  her 
the  penalty  is  remitted,  in  deference  to  the  intercession  of  your 
guardian,  Mr.  Grewgious." 


BIRDS   IN   THE   BUSH.  6 


o 


Miss  Twinkleton  here  achieved  a  curtsey,  suggestive  of  marvels 
happening  to  her  respected  legs,  and  which  she  came  out  of  nobly, 
three  yards  behind  her  starting-point. 

As  he  held  it  incumbent  upon  him  to  call  on  Mr.  Jasper  before 
leaving  Cloisterham,  Mr.  Grewgious  went  to  the  Gate  House,  and 
climbed  its  postern  stair.  But  Mr.  Jasper's  door  being  closed,  and 
presenting  on  a  slip  of  paper  the  word  "  Cathedral,"  the  fact  of  its 
being  service-time  was  borne  into  the  mind  of  Mr.  Grewgious. 
So,  he  descended  the  stair  again,  and,  crossing  the  Close,  paused  at 
the  great  western  folding-door  of  the  Cathedral,  which  stood  open 
on  the  fine  and  bright,  though  short-lived,  afternoon,  for  the 
airing  of  the  place. 

"  Dear  me,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  peeping  in,  "  it's  like  looking 
down  the  throat  of  Old  Time." 

Old  Time  heaved  a  mouldy  sigh  from  tomb  and  arch  and  vault ; 
and  gloomy  shadows  began  to  deej)en  in  corners ;  and  damps 
began  to  rise  from  green  patches  of  stone ;  and  jewels,  cast  upon 
the  pavement  of  the  nave  from  stained  glass  by  the  declining  sun-, 
began  to  perish.  Within  the  grill-gate  of  the  chancel,  up  the 
steps  surmounted  loomingly  by  the  fast  darkening  organ,  white 
robes  could  be  dimly  seen,  and  one  feeble  voice,  rising  and  falling 
in  a  cracked  monotonous  mutter,  could  at  intervals  be  faintly 
heard.  In  the  free  outer  air,  the  river,  the  green  pastures,  and  the 
brown  arable  lands,  the  teeming  hills  and  dales,  were  reddened  by 
the  sunset :  while  the  distant  little  windows  in  windmills  and 
farm  homesteads,  shone,  patches  of  bright  beaten  gold.  In  the 
Cathedral,  all  became  grey,  murky,  and  sepulchral,  and  the  cracked 
monotonous  mutter  went  on  like  a  dying  voice,  until  the  organ  and 
the  choir  burst  forth,  and  drowned  it  in  a  sea  of  music.  Then, 
the  sea  fell,  and  the  dying  voice  made  another  feeble  effort,  and 
then  the  sea  rose  high,  and  beat  its  life  out,  and  lashed  the  roof, 
and  surged  among  the  arches,  and  pierced  the  heights  of  the  great 
tower ;  and  then  the  sea  was  dry,  and  all  was  still. 

Mr.  Grewgious  had  by  that  time  walked  to  the  chancel-steps, 
where  he  met  the  living  waters  coming  out. 

"  Nothing  is  the  matter  ?"  Thus  Jasper  accosted  him,  rather 
quickly.     "  You  have  not  been  sent  for  ?" 

"  Kot  at  all,  not  at  all.  I  came  down  of  my  own  accord.  I 
have  been  to  my  pretty  ward's,  and  am  now  homeward  bound 
again." 

"  You  found  her  thriving  ?" 

"  Blooming  indeed.  Most  blooming.  I  merely  came  to  tell  her, 
seriously,  what  a  betrothal  by  deceased  parents  is." 

"  And  what  is  it — according  to  your  judgment  ?" 

Mr.  Grewgious  noticed  the  whiteness  of  the  lips  that  asked 
the  question,  and  put  it  down  to  the  chilling  account  of  the 
Cathedral. 

"  I  merely  came  to  tell  her  that  it  could  not  be  considered 
binding,  against  any  such  reason  for  its  dissolution  as  a  want  of 
affection,  or  want  of  disposition  to  carry  it  into  effect,  on  the  side 
of  either  party." 

"  May  I  ask,  had  you  any  es^Decial  reason  for  telling  her  that  ?" 


64  THE    MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

Mr.  Grewgious  answered  somewhat  sharply :  "  The  especial 
reason  of  doing  my  duty,  sir.  Simply  that."  Then  he  added  : 
"  Come,  Mr.  Jasper ;  I  know  your  affection  for  your  nephew,  and 
that  you  are  quick  to  feel  on  his  behalf.  I  assure  you  that  this 
implies  not  the  least  doubt  of,  or  disrespect  to,  your  nephew." 

"  You  could  not,"  returned  Jasper,  with  a  friendly  pressure  of 
his  arm,  as  they  walked  on  side  by  side,  "  sj)eak  more  handsomely." 

IMr.  Grewgious  pulled  off  his  hat  to  smooth  his  head,  and, 
having  smoothed  it,  nodded  it  contentedly,  and  put  his  hat  o'.i 
again. 

"  I  will  wager,"  said  Jasper,  smiling — his  lips  were  still  so 
Avhite  that  he  was  conscious  of  it,  and  bit  and  moistened  them 
while  speaking :  "I  will  wager  that  she  hinted  no  wish  to  be 
released  from  Ned." 

"  And  you  will  win  your  wager,  if  you  do,"  retorted  Mr.  Grew- 
gious. "  We  should  allow  some  margin  for  little  maidenly  delica- 
cies in  a  young  motherless  creature,  under  such  circumstances, 
I  suppose  ;  it  is  not  in  my  line  ;  what  do  you  think  ?" 

"  There  can  be  no  doubt  of  it." 

"  I  am  glad  you  say  so.  Because,"  proceeded  Mr.  Grewgious, 
who  had  all  this  time  very  knowinglj^  felt  his  way  round  to  action 
on  his  remembrance  of  what  she  had  said  of  Jasper  himself: 
"  because  she  seems  to  have  some  little  delicate  instinct  that  all 
preliminary  arrangements  had  best  be  made  between  Mr.  Edwin 
Drood  and  herself,  don't  you  see  ?  She  don't  want  us,  don't  you 
know  ?" 

Jasper  touched  himself  on  the  breast,  and  said,  somewhat  in- 
distinctly :  "  You  mean  me." 

Mr.  Grewgious  touched  himself  on  the  breast,  and  said  :  "I 
mean  us.  Therefore,  let  them  have  their  little  discussions  and 
€ouncils  together,  when  Mr.  Edwin  Drood  comes  back  here  at 
Christmas,  and  then  you  and  I  will  step  in,  and  put  the  final 
touches  to  the  business." 

"■  So,  you  settled  with  her  that  you  would  come  back  at  Christ- 
mas?" observed  Jasper.  "I  see!  Mr.  Grewgious,  as  you  quite 
fairly  said  just  now,  there  is  such  an  exceptional  attachment  be- 
tween my  nephew  and  me,  that  I  am  more  sensitive  for  the  dear, 
fortunate,  happ}^,  happy  fellow  than  for  myself.  But  it  is  only 
right  that  the  young  lady  should  be  considered,  as  you  have 
pointed  out,  and  that  I  should  accept  my  cue  from  you.  I  accept 
it.  I  understand  that  at  Christmas  they  will  complete  their 
preparations  for  May,  and  that  their  marriage  will  be  put  in  final 
train  by  themselves,  and  that  nothing  will  remain  for  us  but  to 
put  ourselves  in  train  also,  and  have  everything  ready  for  our 
formal  release  from  our  trusts,  on  Edwin's  birthday." 

*'  That  is  my  understanding,"  assented  Mr.  Grewgious,  as  they 
shook  hands  to  joart.     "  God  bless  them  both  I" 

"  God  save  them  both  !"  cried  Jasper. 

"  I  said,  bless  them,"  remarked  the  former,  looking  back  over 
his  shoulder. 

"  I  said,  save  them,"  returned  the  latter.  *'  Is  there  any 
difference  ?" 


THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD.  65 

CHAPTEK  X. 

SMOOTHINQ   THE   WAY. 

It  has  been  often  enou2:h  remarked  that  women  have  a  curious 
power  of  divining  the  characters-  of  men,  which  would  seem  to 
be  innate  and  instinctive;  seeing  that  it  is  arrived  at  through 
no  patient  process  of  reasoning,  that  it  can  give  no  satisfactory  or 
sufficient  account  of  itself,  and  that  it  pronounces  in  the  most 
confident  manner  even  against  accumulated  observation  on  the 
part  of  the  other  sex.  But  it  has  not  been  quite  so  often  re- 
marked that  this  power  (fallible,  like  every  other  human  attri- 
bute), is  for  the  most  part  absolutely  incapable  of  self-revision ;  and 
that  when  it  has  delivered  an  adverse  opinion  which  by  all  human 
lights  is  subsequently  proved  to  have  failed,  it  is  undistinguishable 
from  prejudice,  in  respect  of  its  determination  not  to  be  corrected. 
Nay,  the  very  possibility  of  contradiction  or  disproof,  however 
remote,  communicates  to  this  feminine  judgment  from  the  first,  in 
nine  cases  out  of  ten,  the  weakness  attendant  on  the  testimony  of 
an  interested  witness :  so  personally  and  strongly  does  the  fair 
diviner  connect  herself  with  her  divination. 

"  Xow,  don't  you  think,  Ma  dear,"  said  the  Minor  Canon  to  his 
mother  one  day  as  she  sat  at  her  knitting  in  his  little  book-room, 
"  that  you  are  rather  hard  on  Mr.  Xeville  ?" 

"  No,  I  do  not,  Sept,"  returned  the  old  lady. 

"  Let  us  discuss  it.  Ma." 

"  I  have  no  objection  to  discuss  it,  Sept.  I  trust,  my  dear,  I  am 
always  open  to  discussion."  There  was  a  vibration  in  the  old 
lady's  cap,  as  though  she  internally  added  :  "  and  I  should  like  to 
see  the  discussion  that  would  change  niT/  mind !" 

"  Yery  good,  Ma,"  said  her  conciliatory  son.  "  There  is  nothing 
like  being  open  to  discussion." 

•'  I  hope  not,  my  dear,"  returned  the  old  lady,  evidently  shut 
to  it. 

"  Well !  Mr.  Neville,  on  that  unfortunate  occasion,  commits  him- 
self under  provocation." 

"  And  under  mulled  wine,"  added  the  old  lady. 

"  I  must  admit  the  wine.  Though  I  believe  the  two  3'oung 
men  were  much  alike  in  that  regard." 

"  I  don't !"  said  the  old  lady. 

"  Why  not,  Ma  ?" 

"  Because  I  don't,''  said  the  old  lady.  "  Still,  I  am  quite  open  to 
discussion." 

"  But,  my  dear  Ma,  I  cannot  see  how  we  are  to  discuss,  if  you 
take  that  line." 

"  Blame  Mr.  Neville  for  it,  Sept,  and  not  me,"  said  the  old  lady, 
with  stately  severity. 

"  My  dear  Ma !     AVhy  Mr.  Neville  ?" 

"  Because,"  said  Mrs.  Crisparkle,  retiring  on  first  principles,  "  he 
came  home  intoxicated,  and  did  great  discredit  to  this  house,  and 
showed  great  disrespect  to  this  family." 

F 


66  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

"  Tliat  is  not  to  be  denied,  Ma.  He  was  then,  and  he  is  now, 
very  sorry  for  it." 

"  But  for  Mr.  Jasper's  well-bred  consideration  in  coming  np  to 
me  next  day,  after  service,  in  the  Nave  itself,  with  his  gown  still 
on,  and  expressing  his  hope  that  I  had  not  been  greatly  alarmed 
or  had  my  rest  violently  broken,  I  believe  I  might  never  have 
heard  of  that  disgraceful  transaction,"  said  the  old  lady. 

"  To  be  candid,  Ma,  I  think  I  should  have  kept  it  from  you  if  I 
could :  though  I  had  not  decidedly  made  up  my  mind.  I  was  fol- 
lowing Jasper  out,  to  confer  with  him  on  the  subject,  and  to  consider 
the  expediency  of  his  and  my  jointly  hushing  the  thing  up  on  all 
accounts,  when  I  found  him  speaking  to  you.    Then  it  was  too  late." 

"  Too  late,  indeed,  Sept.  He  was  still  as  pale  as  gentlemanly 
ashes  at  what  had  taken  place  in  his  rooms  over-night." 

"  If  I  had  kept  it  from  you.  Ma,  you  may  be  sure  it  would  have 
been  for  your  peace  and  quiet,  and  for  the  good  of  the  young  men, 
and  in  my  best  discharge  of  my  duty  according  to  my  lights." 

The  old  lady  immediately  walked  across  the  room  and  kissed 
him ;  saying,  "  Of  course,  my  dear  Sept,  I  am  sure  of  that." 

"  However,  it  became  the  town-talk,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  rubbing 
his  ear,  as  his  mother  resumed  her  seat,  and  her  knitting,  "  and 
passed  out  of  my  power." 

"  And  I  said  then.  Sept,'*  returned  the  old  lady,  "  that  I  thought 
ill  of  Mr.  Neville.  And  I  say  now,  that  I  think  ill  of  Mr.  Neville. 
And  I  said  then,  and  I  say  now,  that  I  hope  Mr.  Neville  may  come 
to  good,  but  I  don't  believe  he  will."  Here  the  cap  vibrated  again, 
considerably. 

"  I  am  sorry  to  hear  you  say  so,  Ma " 

"  I  am  sorry  to  say  so,  my  dear,"  interposed  the  old  lady,  knitting 
on  firmly,  "  but  I  can't  help  it." 

"  — For,"  pursued  the  Minor  Canon,  "  it  is  undeniable  that  Mr. 
Neville  is  exceedingly  industrious  and  attentive,  and  that  he 
improves  apace,  and  that  he  has — I  hope  I  may  say — an  attach- 
ment to  me." 

"  There  is  no  merit  in  the  last  article,  my  dear,"  said  the  old 
lady,  quickly ;  "  and  if  he  says  there  is,  I  think  the  worse  of  him 
for  the  boast." 

"  But,  my  dear  Ma,  he  never  said  there  was." 

"Perhaps  not,"  returned  the  old  lady  ;  "  still,  I  don't  see  that  it 
greatly  signifies." 

There  was  no  impatience  •  in  the  pleasant  look  with  which  Mr. 
Crisparkle  contemplated  the  pretty  old  piece  of  china  as  it  knitted ; 
but  there  was,  certainly,  a  humorous  sense  of  its  not  being  a  piece 
of  china  to  argue  with  very  closely. 

"Besides,  Sept.  Ask  yourself  what  he  would  be  without  his 
sister.  You  know  what  an  influence  she  has  over  him ;  you  know 
what  a  capacity  she  has ;  you  know  that  whatever  he  reads  with 
you,  he  reads  with  her.  Give  her  her  fair  share  of  your  praise, 
and  how  much  do  you  leave  for  him  ?" 

At  these  words  Mr.  Crisparkle  fell  into  a  little  reverie,  in  which 
he  thought  of  several  things.  He  thought  of  the  times  he  had 
seen  the  brother  and  sister  together  in  deep  converse  over  one  of 


SMOOTHINa   THE   WAY.  67 

his  own  old  college  books ;  now,  in  the  rimy  mornings,  when  he 
made  those  sharpening  pilgrimages  to  Cloisterham  Weir ;  now,  in 
the  sombre  evenings,  when  he  faced  the  wind  at  sunset,  having 
climbed  his  favourite  outloolc,  a  beetling  fragment  of  monastery 
ruin ;  and  the  two  studious  figures  passed  below  him  along  the 
margin  of  the  river,  in  which  the  town  fires  and  lights  already 
shone,  making  the  landscape  bleaker.  He  thought  how  the  con- 
sciousness had  stolen  upon  him  that  in  teaching  one,  he  was 
teaching  two ;  and  how  he  had  almost  insensibly  adapted  his 
explanations  to  both  minds — that  with  which  his  own  was 
daily  in  contact,  and  that  which  he  only  approached  through  it. 
He  thought  of  the  gossip  that  had  reached  him  from  the  Nuns' 
House,  to  the  effect  that  Helena,  whom  he  had  mistrusted  as  so 
proud  and  fierce,  submitted  herself  to  the  fairy-bride  (as  he  called 
her),  and  learnt  from  her  what  she  knew.  He  thought  of  the 
picturesque  alliance  between  those  two,  externally  so  very  dif- 
ferent. He  thought — perhaps  most  of  all — could  it  be  that  these 
things  were  yet  but  so  many  weeks  old,  and  had  become  an  integral 
part  of  his  life  ? 

As,  whenever  the  Eeverend  Septimus  fell  a-musing,  his  good 
mother  took  it  to  be  an  infallible  sign  that  he  "  wanted  support," 
the  blooming  old  lady  made  all  haste  to  the  dining-room  closet,  to 
produce  from  it  the  support  embodied  in  a  glass  of  Constantia  and 
a  home-made  biscuit.  It  was  a  most  wonderful  closet,  worthy  of 
Cloisterham  and  of  Minor  Canon  Corner.  Above  it,  a  portrait  of 
Handel  in  a  flowing  wig  beamed  down  at  the  spectator,  with  a 
knowing  air  of  being  up  to  the  contents  of  the  closet,  and  a 
musical  air  of  intending  to  combine  all  its  harmonies  in  one 
delicious  fugue.  No  common  closet  with  a  vulgar  door  on  hinges, 
openable  all  at  once,  and  leaving  nothing  to  be  disclosed  by 
degrees,  this  rare  closet  had  a  lock  in  mid-air,  where  two  perpen- 
dicular slides  met :  the  one  falling  down,  and  the  other  pushing 
up.  The  upper  slide,  on  being  pulled  down  (leaving  the  lower  a 
double  mystery),  revealed  deep  shelves  of  pickle-jars,  jam-pots,  tin 
canisters,  spice-boxes,  and  agreeably  outlandish  vessels  of  blue 
and  white,  the  luscious  lodgings  of  preserved  tamarinds  and 
ginger.  Every  benevolent  inhabitant  of  this  retreat  had  his  name 
inscribed  upon  his  stomach.  The  pickles,  in  a  uniform  of  rich 
brown  double-breasted  buttoned  coat,  and  yellow  or  sombre  drab 
continuations,  announced  their  portly  forms,  in  printed  capitals, 
as  Walnut,  Gherkin,  Onion,  Cabbage,  Cauliflower,  Mixecl,  and 
other  members  of  that  noble  famil}'-.  The  jams,  as  being  of  a  less 
masculine  temperament,  and  as  wearing  curlpapers,  announced 
themselves  in  feminine  caligraphy,  like  a  soft  whisper,  to  be  Easp- 
berry.  Gooseberry,  Apricot,  Plum,  Damson,  Apple,  and  Peach. 
The  scene  closing  on  these  charmers,  and  the  lower  slide  ascending, 
oranges  were  revealed,  attended  hj  a  mighty  japanned  sugar-box, 
to  temper  their  acerbity  if  unripe.  Home-made  biscuits  waited 
at  the  Court  of  these  Powers,  accompanied  by  a  goodly  fragment 
of  plum-cake,  and  various  slender  ladies'  fingers,  to  be  dipped  into 
sweet  wine  and  kissed.  Lowest  of  all,  a  compact  leaden  vault 
enshrined  the  sweet  wine  and  a  stock  of  cordials :    whence  issued 

F  2 


68  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

whispers  of  Seville  Orange,  Lemon,  Almond,  and  Carrawaj^-seed. 
There  was  a  crowning  air  upon  this  closet  of  closets,  of  having  been 
for  ages  hummed  through  by  the  Cathedral  bell  and  organ,  until  those 
venerable  bees  had  made  sublimated  honey  of  everj^thing  in  store  ; 
and  it  was  always  observed  that  every  dipper  among  the  shelves 
(deep,  as  has  been  noticed,  and  swallowing  up  head,  shoulders, 
and  elbows),  came  forth  again  mellow-faced,  and  seeming  to  have 
undergone  a  saccharine  transfiguration. 

The  Eeverend  Septimus  yielded  himself  up  quite  as  willing  a 
victim  to  a  nauseous  medicinal  herb-closet,  also  presided  over  by 
the  china  shepherdess,  as  to  this  glorious  cupboard.  To  what 
amazing  infusions  of  gentian,  peppermint,  gilliflower,  sage,  parsley, 
thyme,  rue,  rosemary,  and  dandelion,  did  his  courageous  stomach- 
submit  itself!  In  what  wonderful  wrappers  enclosing  layers  of 
dried  leaves,  would  he  swathe  his  rosy  and  contented  face,  if  his- 
mother  suspected  him  of  a  toothache !  What  botanical  blotches 
would  he  cheerfully  stick  upon  his  cheek,  or  forehead,  if  the  dear 
old  lady  convicted  him  of  an  imperceptible  pimple  there !  Into 
this  herbaceous  penitentiary,  situated  on  an  upper  staircase- 
landing  :  a  low  and  narrow  whitewashed  cell,  where  bunches  of 
dried  leaves  hung  from  rusty  hooks  in  the  ceiling,  and  were  spread' 
out  upon  shelves,  in  company  with  portentous  bottles :  would  the 
Eeverend  Septimus  submissively  be  led,  like  the  highly-j)opular 
lamb  who  has  so  long  and  unresistingly  been  led  to  the  slaughter, 
and  there  would  he,  unlike  that  lamb,  bore  nobody  but  himself. 
Not  even  doing  that  much,  so  that  the  old  lady  were  busy  and' 
pleased,  he  would  quietly  swallow  what  was  given  him,  merely 
taking  a  corrective  dip  of  hands  and  face  into  the  great  bowl  of 
dried  rose-leaves,  and  into  the  other  great  bowl  of  dried  lavender, 
and  then  would  go  out,  as  confident  in  the  sweetening  powers 
of  Cloisterham  Weir  and  a  wholesome  mind,  as  Lady  Macbeth  was 
hopeless  of  those  of  all  the  seas  that  roll. 

In  the  present  instance  the  good  Minor  Canon  took  his  glass  of 
Constantia  with  an  excellent  grace,  and,  so  supported  to  his 
mother's  satisfaction,  applied  himself  to  the  remaining  duties  of 
the  day.  In  their  orderly  and  punctual  progress  they  brought 
round  Vesper  Service  and  twilight.  The  Cathedral  being  very 
cold,  he  set  off  for  a  brisk  trot  after  service ;  the  trot  to  end  in  a^ 
charge  at  his  favorite  fragment  of  ruin,  which  was  to  be  carried 
by  storm,  without  a  pause  for  breath. 

He  carried  it  in  a  masterly  manner,  and,  not  breathed  even  then, 
stood  looking  down  upon  the  river.  The  river  at  Cloisterham  ia 
sufficiently  near  the  sea  to  throw  up  oftentimes  a  quantity  of  sea- 
weed. An  unusual  quantity  had  come  in  with  the  last  tide,  and 
this,  and  the  confusion  of  the  water,  and  the  restless  dipping  and 
flapping  of  the  noisy  gulls,  and  an  angry  light  out  seaward  beyond 
the  brown-sailed  barges  that  were  turning  black,  foreshadowed  a 
stormy  night.  In  his  mind  he  was  contrasting  the  wild  and  noisy 
sea  with  the  quiet  harbour  of  Minor  Canon  Corner,  Avhen  Helent* 
and  Neville  Landless  passed  below  him.  He  had  had  the  two 
together  in  his  thoughts  all  day,  and  at  once  climbed  down  to 
fcjpeak  to  them  together.     The  footing  was  rough  in  an  uncertain 


SMOOTHING   THE   WAY.  69 

liglit  for  any  tread  save  that  of  a  good  climber ;  but  the  Minor 
Canon  was  as  good  a  climber  as  most  men,  and  stood  beside  them 
before  many  good  climbers  would  have  been  half-way  down. 

"  A  wild  evening,  Miss  Landless !  Do  you  not  find  your  usual 
walk  with  your  brother  too  exposed  and  cold  for  the  time  of  year? 
Or  at  all  events,  when  the  sun  is  down,  and  the  weather  is  driving 
in  from  the  sea  ?" 

Helena  thought  not.  It  was  their  favorite  walk.  It  was  very 
retired. 

"  It  is  very  retired,"  assented  Mr.  Crisparkle,  laying  hold  of  his 
•  opportunity  straightway,  and  walking  on  with  them.  "It  is  a 
place  of  all  others  where  one  can  speak  without  interruption, 
as  I  wish  to  do.  Mr.  Neville,  I  believe  you  tell  your  sister  every- 
thing that  passes  between  us  ?" 

"  Everything,  sir." 

"  Consequently,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  your  sister  is  aware  that 
I  have  repeatedly  urged  you  to  make  some  kind  of  apology  for 
that  unfortunate  occurrence  which  befell,  on  the  night  of  }'our 
arrival  here." 

In  saying  it  he  looked  to  her,  and  not  to  him  ;  therefore  it  was 
ehe,  and  not  he,  who  rej)lied  : 

"  Yes." 

"  I  call  it  unfortunate,  Miss  Helena,"  resumed  Mr,  Crisparkle, 
"  forasmuch  as  it  certainly  has  engendered  a  prejudice  against 
Neville.  There  is  a  notion  about,  that  he  is  a  dangerously  pas- 
sionate fellow,  of  an  uncontrollaole  and  furious  temper:  he  is 
really  avoided  as  such." 

"  I  have  no  doubt  he  is,  poor  fellow,"  said  Helena,  with  a  look 
of  proud  compassion  at  her  brother,  expressing  a  deep  sense  of  his 
being  ungenerously  treated.  "  I  should  be  quite  sure  of  it,  from 
your  saying  so  ;  but  what  you  tell  me  is  confirmed  by  suppressed 
hints  and  references  that  I  meet  with  every  day." 

"  Now,"  Mr.  Crisparkle  again  resumed,  in  a  tone  of  mild  though 
^rni  persuasion,  "  is  not  this  to  be  regretted,  and  ought  it  not  to 
be  amended  ?  These  are  early  days  of  Neville's  in  Cloisterham, 
-and  I  have  no  fear  of  his  outliving  such  a  prejudice,  and  proving 
himself  to  have  been  misunderstood.  But  how  much  wiser  to  take 
action  at  once,  than  to  trust  to  uncertain  time !  Besides ;  apart 
from  its  being  politic,  it  is  right.  For  there  can  be  no  question 
"that  Neville  was  wrong." 

"  He  was  provoked,"  Helena  submitted. 

*'  He  was  the  assailant,"  Mr.  Crisparkle  submitted. 

They  walked  on  in  silence,  until  Helena  raised  her  eyes  to  the 
Minor  Canon's  face,  and  said,  almost  reproachfully  :  "  Oh,  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle, would  3^ou  have  Neville  throw  himself  at  young  Drood's 
feet,  or  at  Mr.  Jasper's,  who  maligns  him  every  day  !  In  your 
heart  you  cannot  mean  it.  From  your  heart  you  could  not  do  it, 
if  his  case  were  yours." 

"  I  have  rej)resented  to  Mr.  Crisparkle,  Helena,"  said  Neville, 
"w^ith  a  glance  of  deference  towards  his  tutor,  "  that  if  I  could  do 
it  from  my  heart,  I  would.  But  I  cannot,  and  I  revolt  from  the 
vpretence.     You  forget,  however,  that  to  put  the  case  to  Mr.  Oris- 


70  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

parkle  as  liis  own,  is  to  suppose  Mr.  Crisparkle  to  have  done  wliat 
I  did." 

"  I  ask  liis  pardon,"  said  Helena. 

"  Yon  see,"  remarked  Mr.  Crisj^arkle,  again  laying  hold  of  his 
opportunity,  though  with  a  moderate  and  delicate  touch,  "  you 
both  instinctively  acknowledge  that  Neville  did  wrong !  Then 
why  stop  short,  and  not  otherwise  acknowledge  it  ?" 

"  Is  there  no  difference,"  asked  Helena,  with  a  little  faltering  in 
her  manner,  "  between  submission  to  a  generous  spirit,  and  sub- 
mission to  a  base  or  trivial  one  ?" 

Before  the  worthy  Minor  Canon  was  quite  ready  with  his 
argument  in  reference  to  this  nice  distinction,  Neville  struck 
in  : 

"  Help  me  to  clear  myself  with  Mr.  Crisparkle,  Helena.  Help 
me  to  convince  him  that  I  cannot  be  the  first  to  make  concessions 
without  mockery  and  falsehood.  My  nature  must  be  changed 
before  I  can  do  so,  and  it  is  not  changed.  I  am  sensible  of  inex- 
pressible affront,  and  deliberate  aggravation  of  inexpressible 
affront,  and  I  am  angry.  The  plain  truth  is,  I  am  still  as  angry 
when  I  recall  that  night  as  I  was  that  night." 

"  Neville,"  hinted  the  Minor  Canon,  with  a  steady  countenance, 
"  you  have  repeated  that  former  action  of  your  hands,  which  I  sa 
much  dislike." 

"  I  am  sorry  for  it,  sir,  but  it  was  involuntary.  I  confessed 
that  I  was  still  as  angry." 

"  And  I  confess,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  that  I  hoped  for  better 
things." 

"  I  am  sorry  to  disappoint  you,  sir,  but  it  would  be  far  worse  to 
deceive  you,  and  I  should  deceive  you  grossly  if  I  pretended  that 
you  had  softened  me  in  this  respect.  The  time  may  come  when 
your  powerful  influence  will  do  even  that  with  the  difficult  pupil 
whos6  antecedents  you  know ;  but  it  has  not  come  yet.  Is  this  so, 
and  in  spite  of  my  struggles  against  myself,  Helena  ?" 

She,  whose  dark  eyes  were  watching  the  effect  of  what'  he  said 
on  Mr.  Crisparkle's  face,  replied — to  Mr.  Crisparkle  :  not  to  him  : 
"  It  is  so."  After  a  short  pause,  she  answered  the  slightest  look 
of  inquiry  conceivable,  in  her  brother's  eyes,  with  as  slight  an 
affirmative  bend  of  her  own  head ;  and  he  went  on : 

"  I  have  never  yet  had  the  courage  to  say  to  you,  sir,  what  in 
full  openness  I  ought  to  have  said  when  you  first  talked  with  me 
on  this  subject.  It  is  not  easy  to  say,  and  I  have  been  withheld 
by  a  fear  of  its  seeming  ridiculous,  which  is  very  strong  upon  me 
down  to  this  last  moment,  and  might,  but  for  my  sister,  prevent 
my  being  quite  open  with  you  even  now. — I  admire  Miss  Bud, 
sir,  so  very  much,  that  I  cannot  bear  her  being  treated  with  con- 
ceit or  indifference ;  and  even  if  I  did  not  feel  that  I  had  an  injury 
against  young  Drood  on  my  own  account,  I  should  feel  that  I  had 
an  injury  against  him  on  hers." 

Mr.  Crisparkle,  in  utter  amazement,  looked  at  Helena  for  cor- 
roboration, and  met  in  her  expressive  face  full  corroboration,  and 
a  plea  for  advice. 

The   young    lady    of   whom    you    speak    is,    as    you    know,. 


a 


SMOOTHlNa   THE  WAY.  71 

Mr.  Neville,  shortly  to  he  married,"  said  Mr.  Cris}3arkle,  gravely ; 
"therefore  your  admiration,  if  it  be  of  that  special  nature  which 
you  seem  to  indicate,  is  outrageously  misplaced.  Moreover,  it  is 
monstrous  that  you  should  take  upon  yourself  to  he  ^he  young 
lady's  champion  against  her  chosen  husband.  Besides,  you  have 
seen  them  only  once.  The  young  lady  has  become  your  sister's 
friend ;  and  I  wonder  that  your  sister,  even  on  her  behalf,  has  not 
checked  you  in  this  irrational  and  culpable  fancy." 

"  She  has  tried,  sir,  but  uselessly.  Husband  or  no  husband, 
that  fellow  is  incapable  of  the  feeling  with  which  I  am  inspired 
towards  the  beautiful  young  creature  whom  he  treats  like  a  doll. 
I  say  he  is  as  incapable  of  it,  as  he  is  unworthy  of  her.  I  say  she 
is  sacrificed  in  being  bestowed  upon  him.  I  say  that  I  love  her, 
and  despise  and  hate  him !"  This  with  a  face  so  flushed,  and  a 
gesture  so  violent,  that  his  sister  crossed  to  his  side,  and  caught 
his  arm,  remonstrating,  "  Neville,  Neville  !" 

Thus  recalled  to  himself,  he  quickly  became  sensible  of  having 
lost  the  guard  he  had  set  upon  his  passionate  tendency, 
and  covered  his  face  with  his  hand,  as  one  repentant,  and 
wretched. 

Mr.  Crisparkle,  watching  him  attentively,  and  at  the  same  time 
meditating  how  to  proceed,  walked  on  for  some  j^aces  in  silence. 
Then  he  spoke : 

"  Mr.  Neville,  Mr.  Neville,  I  am  sorely  grieved  to  see  in  you 
more  traces  of  a  character  as  sullen,  angry,  and  wild,  as  the  night 
now  closing  in.  They  are  of  too  serious  an  aspect  to  leave  me  the 
resource  of  treating  the  infatuation  you  have  disclosed,  as  unde- 
serving serious  consideration.  I  give  it  very  serious  consideration, 
and  I  speak  to  you  accordingly.  This  feud  between  you  and 
young  Drood  must  not  go  on.  I  cannot  permit  it  to  go  on,  any 
longer,  knowing  what  I  now  know  from  you,  and  you  living  under 
my  roof.  Whatever  prejudiced  and  unauthorized  constructions 
your  blind  and  envious  wrath  may  put  upon  his  character,  it  is  a 
frank,  good-natured  character.  I  know  I  can  trust  to  it  for  that. 
Now,  pray  observe  what  I  am  about  to  say.  On  reflection,  and 
on  your  sister's  representation,  I  am  willing  to  admit  that,  in 
making  peace  with  young  Drood,  you  have  a  right  to  be  met  half 
way.  I  will  engage  that  you  shall  be,  and  even  that  young  Drood 
shall  make  the  first  advance.  This  condition  fulfilled,  you  will 
pledge  me  the  honor  of  a  Christian  gentleman  that  the  quarrel  is 
for  ever  at  an  end  on  your  side.  What  may  be  in  your  heart 
when  you  give  him  your  hand,  can  only  be  known  to  the  Searcher 
of  all  hearts ;  but  it  will  never  go  well  with  you,  if  there  be  any 
treachery  there.  So  far,  as  to  that ;  next  as  to  what  I  must  again 
speak  of  as  your  infatuation.  I  understand  it  to  have  been  confided 
to  me,  and  to  be  known  to  no  other  person  save  your  sister  and 
yourself.     Do  I  understand  aright  ?" 

Helena  answered  in  a  low  voice  :  "  It  is  only  known  to  us  three 
who  are  here  together." 

"  It  is  not  at  all  known  to  the  young  lady,  your  friend  ?" 

"  On  my  soul,  no  !" 

"  I  require  you,  then,  to  give  me  your  similar  and  solemn  pledge, 


72  THE    MYSTERY    OE   EDWIN   DROOD. 

Mr,  Neville,  that  it  shall  remain  the  secret  it  is,  and  that  you 
will  take  nc  other  action  whatsoever  upon  it  than  endeavouring 
fand  that  most  earnestly)  to  erase  it  from  your  mind.  I  will  not 
tell  you  that  it  will  soon  pass  ;  I  will  not  tell  3^011  that  it  is  the 
fancy  of  the  moment ;  I  will  not  tell  you  that  such  caprices  have 
their  rise  and  fall  among  the  young  and  ardent  every  hour ;  I 
will  leave  you  undisturbed  in  the  belief  that  it  has  few  parallels 
or  none,  that  it  will  abide  with  you  a  long  time,  and  that  it  will 
be  very  difficult  to  conqiier.  So  much  the  more  weight  shall  I 
attach  to  the  pledge  I  require  from  you,  when  it  is  unreservedly 
given." 

The  young  man  twice  or  thrice  essayed  to  speak,  but  failed. 

"  Let  me  leave  you  with  your  sister,  whom  it  is  time  you  took 
home,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle.  "  You  will  find  me  alone  in  my  room 
by-and-by." 

"  Pray  do  not  leave  us  yet,"  Helena  implored  him.  "  Another 
minute." 

"  I  should  not,"  said  Neville,  pressing  his  hand  upon  his  face, 
"have  needed  so  much  as  another  minute,  if  you  had  been  less 
patient  with  me,  Mr.  Crisparkle,  less  considerate  of  me,  and  less 
unpretendingly  good  and  true.  Oh,  if  in  my  childhood  I  had 
known  such  a  guide  !" 

"  Follow  your  guide  now,  Neville,"  murmured  Helena,  "  and 
follow  him  to  Heaven !" 

There  was  that  in  her  tone  which  broke  the  good  Minor  Canon's 
voice,  or  it  would  have  repudiated  her  exaltation  of  him.  As 
it  was,  he  laid  a  finger  on  his  lips,  and  looked  towards  her 
brother. 

"  To  say  that  I  give  both  pledges,  Mr.  Crisjoarkle,  out  of  my 
innermost  heart,  and  to  say  that  there  is  no  treachery  in  it,  is  to 
say  nothing !"  Thus  Neville,  greatly  moved.  "  I  beg  your 
forgiveness  for  my  miserable  lapse  into  a  burst  of  passion." 

"  Not  mine,  Neville,  not  mine.  You  know  with  whom  forgive- 
ness lies,  as  the  highest  attribute  conceivable.  Miss  Helena,  you 
and  your  brother  are  twin  children.  You  came  into  this  world 
with  the  same  dispositions,  and  you  passed  your  younger  days 
together  surrounded  by  the  same  adverse  circumstances.  What 
you  have  overcome  in  j^ourself,  can  you  not  overcome  in  him  ? 
You  see  the  rock  that  lies  in  his  course.  Who  but  you  can  keep 
him  clear  of  it  ?" 

"  Who  but  you,  sir  ?"  replied  Helena.  "  What  is  my  influence, 
or  my  weak  wisdom,  compared  with  yours  !" 

"  You  have  the  wisdom  of  Love,"  returned  the  Minor  Canon, 
"  and  it  was  the  highest  wisdom  ever  known  upon  this  earth, 
remember.  As  to  mine — but  the  less  said  of  that  commonplace 
commodity  the  better.     Good  night !" 

She  took  the  hand  he  offered  her,  and  gratefully  and  almost  re- 
verently raised  it  to  her  lips. 

"  Tut !"  said  the  Minor  Canon,  softly,  "  I  am  much  overpaid  !" 
And  turned  away. 

Retracing  his  steps  towards  the  Cathedral  Close,  he  tried,  as  ho 
went  along  in  the  dark,  to  think  out  the  best  means  of  bringing 


SMOOTHING   THE   WAY.  73 

to  pass  wliat  lie  had  promised  to  effect,  and  what  must  somehow 
be  done.  "  I  shall  probably  be  asked  to  marry  them,"  he  reflected, 
"  and  I  would  they  were  married  and  gone !  But  this  presses 
first."  He  debated  principally,  whether  he  should  write  to  young 
Drood,  or  whether  he  should  speak  to  Jasper.  The  consciousness 
of  being  popular  with  the  whole  Cathedral  establishment  inclined 
him  to  the  latter  course,  and  the  well-timed  sight  of  the  lighted 
gatehouse  decided  him  to  take  it.  "I  will  strike  while  the  iron 
is  hot,"  he  said,  "  and  see  him  now." 

Jasper  was  lying  asleep  on  a  couch  befor-!;  the  fire,  when,  having 
ascended  the  postern-stair,  and  received  no  answer  to  his  knock  at 
the  door,  Mr.  Crisparkle  gently  turned  the  handle  and  looked  in. 
Long  afterwards  he  had  cause  to  remember  how  Jasper  sprang 
from  the  couch  in  a  delirious  state  between  sleeping  and  waking, 
crying  out :  "  What  is  the  matter  ?     Who  did  it  y" 

"  It  is  only  I,  Jasper.     I  am  sorry  to  have  disturbed  you." 

The  glare  of  his  ej^es  settled  down  into  a  look  of  recognition, 
and  he  moved  a  chair  or  two,  to  make  a  wa}^  to  the  fireside, 

"  I  was  di-eaming  at  a  great  rate,  and  am  glad  to  be  disturbed 
from  an  indigestive  after-dinner  sleep.  Not  to  mention  that  you 
are  always  welcome." 

"  Thank  you.  I  am  not  confident,"  returned  Mr.  Crisparkle  as 
he  sat  himself  down  in  the  easy  chair  placed  foi  him,  "  that  my 
subject  will  at  first  sight  be  quite  as  welcome  as  myself;  but  I  am 
a  minister  of  peace,  and  I  pursue  my  subject  in  the  interests  of 
peace.  In  a  word,  Jasper,  I  want  to  establish  peace  between  these 
two  young  fellows." 

A  very  per]3lexed  expression  took  hold  of  Mr.  Jasper's  face ;  a 
very  perplexing  expression  too,  for  Mr.  Crisparkle  could  make 
nothing  of  it. 

"  How  ?"  was  Jasper's  inquiry",  in  a  low  and  slow  voice,  after  a 
silence. 

*'  For  the  '  How '  I  come  to  joii.  I  want  to  ask  you  to  do  me 
the  great  favor  and  service  of  interposing  with  your  nephew 
(I  have  already  interposed  with  Mr.  Neville),  and  getting  him  to 
write  you  a  short  note,  in  his  livel}^  "^"^'^y?  saying  that  he  is  willing 
to  shake  hands.  I  know  what  a  good-natured  fellow  he  is,  and 
what  influence  you  have  with  him.  And  without  in  the  least 
defending  Mr.  Neville,  we  must  all  admit  that  he  was  bitterly 
«tung." 

Jasper  turned  that  ]Derplexed  face  towards  the  fire.  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle continuing  to  observe  it,  found  it  even  more  perplexing  than 
before,  inasmuch  as  it  seemed  to  denote  (which  could  hardly  be) 
■some  close  internal  calculation. 

"  I  know  that  you  are  not  prepossessed  in  Mr.  Neville's  favor," 
the  Minor  Canon  was  going  on,  when  Jasper  stopped  him : 

"  You  have  cause  to  say  so.     I  am  not,  indeed." 

"  Undoubtedly,  and  I  admit  his  lamentable  violence  of  temper, 
though  I  hope  he  and  I  will  get  the  better  of  it  between  us.  But 
I  have  exacted  a  very  solemn  promise  from  him  as  to  his  future 
demeanour  towards  your  nephew,  if  you  do  kindly  interpose  ;  and 
I  am  sure  he  will  keep  it." 


74  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DKOOD. 

"  Yon  are  always  responsible  and  trustworthy,  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle.  Do  you  really  feel  sure  that  you  can  answer  for  him  so 
confidently  ?" 

"  I  do." 

The  perplexed  and  perplexing  look  vanished. 

"  Then  you  relieve  my  mind  of  a  great  dread,  and  a  heavy 
weight,"  said  Jasper  ;  "  I  will  do  it." 

Mr.  Crisparkle,  delighted  by  the  swiftness  and  completeness  of 
his  success,  acknowledged  it  in  the  handsomest  terms. 

"  I  will  do  it,"  repeated  Jasper,  "  for  the  comfort  of  having  your 
guarantee  against  my  vague  and  unfounded  fears.  You  will  laugh 
— but  do  you  keep  a  Diary  ?" 

"  A  line  for  a  day ;  not  more." 

"  A  line  for  a  day  would  be  quite  as  much  as  my  uneventful  life 
would  need,  Heaven  knows,"  said  Jasper,  taking  a  book  from  a 
desk ;  "  but  that  my  Diary  is,  in  fact,  a  Diary  of  Ned's  life  too. 
You  will  laugh  at  this  entry  ;  you  will  guess  when  it  was  made  : 

Past  midniglit. — After  what  I  have  just  now  seen,  I  have  a  morbid  dread  upon 
me  of  some  horrible  consequences  resulting  to  my  dear  boy,  that  I  cannot  reason 
with  or  in  any  way  contend  against.  All  my  etforts  are  vain.  The  demoniacal 
passion  of  this  Neville  Landless,  his  strength  in  his  fury,  and  his  savage  rage  for 
the  destruction  of  its  object,  appal  me.  So  profound  is  the  impression,  that  twice 
since  have  I  gone  into  my  dear  boy's  room,  to  assui'e  myself  of  his  sleeping  safely, 
and  not  Iving  dead  in  his  blood.' 

"  Here  is  another  entry  next  morning  : 

*  Ned  up  and  away.  Light-hearted  and  unsuspicious  as  ever.  He  laughed 
when  I  cautioned  him,  and  said  he  was  as  good  a  man  as  Neville  Landless  any  day. 
I  told  him  that  might  be,  but  he  was  not  as  bad  a  man.  He  continued  to  make 
light  of  it,  but  I  travelled  with  him  as  far  as  I  could,  and  left  him  most  unwillingly. 
I  am  unable  to  shake  off  these  dark  intangible  presentiments  of  evil — if  feelings 
founded  upon  staring  facts  are  to  be  so  called.' 

"  Again  and  again,"  said  Jasper,  in  conclusion,  twirling  the 
leaves  of  the  book  before  putting  it  by,  "  I  have  relaj^sed  into  these 
moods,  as  other  entries  show.  But  I  have  now  your  assurance  at 
my  back,  and  shall  put  it  in  my  book,  and  make  it  an  antidote  ta 
my  black  humours." 

"  Such  an  antidote,  I  hope,"  returned  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  as  will 
induce  you  before  long  to  consign  the  black  humours  to  the  flames. 
I  ought  to  be  the  last  to  find  any  fault  with  you  this  evening,  when 
you  have  met  my  wishes  so  freely ;  but  I  must  say,  Jasper,  that 
your  devotion  to  your  nephew  has  made  you  exaggerative  here." 

"  You  are  my  witness,"  said  Jasper,  shrugging  his  shoulders, 
"  what  my  state  of  mind  honestly  was,  that  night,  before  I  sat 
down  to  write,  and  in  what  words  I  expressed  it.  You  remember 
objecting  to  a  word  I  used,  as  being  too  strong  ?  It  was  a  stronger 
word  than  any  in  my  Diary." 

"  Well,  well.  Try  the  antidote,"  rejoined  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  and 
may  it  give  you  a  brighter  and  better  view  of  the  case  !  We  will 
discuss  it  no  more,  now.  I  have  to  thank  you  for  myself,  and  I 
thank  you  sincerely." 

"  You  shall  find,"  said  Jasper,  as  they  shook  hands,  "  that  I  will 


A   PICTUEE   AND   A   EING.  75 

not  do  the  thing  you  wish  me  to  do,  by  halves.     I  will  take  care 
that  Ned,  giving  way  at  all,  shall  give  way  thoroughly." 

On  the  third  day  after  this  conversation,  he  called  on  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle  with  the  following  letter  : 

"  My  dear  Jack, 

"  I  am  touched  by  your  account  of  your  interview  with  Mr. 
Crisparkle,  whom  I  much  respect  and  esteem.  At  once  I  openly 
say  that  I  forgot  myself  on  that  occasion  quite  as  much  as  Mr. 
Landless  did,  and  that  I  wish  that  b^'egone  to  be  a  byegone,  and 
all  to  be  right  again. 

"  Look  here,  dear  old  boy.  Ask  Mr.  Landless  to  dinner  on 
Christmas  Eve  (the  better  the  day  the  better  the  deed),  and  let 
there  be  only  we  three,  and  let  us  shake  hands  all  round  there  and 
then,  and  say  no  more  about  it. 

"  My  Dear  Jack, 

"  Ever  your  most  affectionate, 

"  Edwin  Deood. 

"  P.S. — Love  to  Miss  Pussy  at  the  next  music  lesson." 

"  You  expect  Mr,  Neville,  then  ?"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle. 
"  I  count  upon  his  coming,"  said  Mr.  Jasper. 


CHAPTEE  XL 

A   PICTUEE   AND   A    EING. 

Bpihustd  the  most  ancient  part  of  Holborn,  London,  where  certain 
gabled  houses  some  centuries  of  age  still  stand  looking  on  the 
public  way,  as  if  disconsolately  looking  for  the  Old  Bourne  that 
has  long  run  dry,  is  a  little  nook  composed  of  two  irregular  quad- 
rangles, called  Staple  Inn.  It  is  one  of  those  nooks,  the  turning 
into  which  out  of  the  clashing  street,  imparts  to  the  relieved 
pedestrian  the  sensation  of  having  put  cotton  in  his  ears,  and 
velvet  soles  on  his  boots.  It  is  one  of  those  nooks  where  a  few 
smoky  sparrows  twitter  in  smoky  trees,  as  though  they  called  to 
one  another,  "  Let  us  play  at  country,"  and  where  a  few  feet  of 
garden  mould  and  a  few  yards  of  gravel  enable  them  to  do  that 
refreshing  violence  to  their  tiny  understandings.  Moreover,  it  is 
one  of  those  nooks  which  are  legal  nooks ;  and  it  contains  a  little 
Hall,  with  a  little  lantern  in  its  roof :  to  what  obstructive  purposes 
devoted,  and  at  whose  expense,  this  history  knoweth  not. 

In  the  days  when  Cloisterham  took  offence  at  the  existence  of  a 
railroad  afar  off,  as  menacing  that  sensitive  constitution,  the 
property  of  us  Britons.  The  odd  fortune  of  which  sacred  institutions 
it  is  to  be  in  exactly  equal  degrees  croaked  about,  trembled  for,  and 
boasted  of,  whatever  happens  to  anything,  anywhere  in  the  world  : 
in  those  days  no  neighbouring  architecture  of  lofty  proportions 
had  arisen  to  overshadow  Staple  Inn.  The  westering  sun  bestowed 
bright  glances  on  it,  and  the  south-west  wind  blew  into  it  un- 
impeded. 


76  TKE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

Neither  •wind  nor  sun,  liowever,  favored  Staple  Inn,  one  December 
afternoon  towards  six  o'clock,  when  it  was  filled  with  fog,  and 
candles  shed  murky  and  blurred  rays  through  the  windows  of 
all  its  then-occupied  sets  of  chambers  ;  notably,  from  a  set  of 
chambers  in  a  corner  house  in  the  little  inner  quadrangle,  pre- 
senting in  black  and  white  over  its  ugly  portal  the  mysterious 
inscription  : 

P 
J  T 

1747. 

In  which  set  of  chambers,  never  having  troubled  his  head  about 
the  inscription,  unless  to  bethink  himself  at  odd  times  on  glancing 
up  at  it,  that  haply  it  might  mean  Perhaps  John  Thomas,  or 
Perhaps  Joe  Tyler,  sat  Mr.  Grewgious  writing  by  his  fire. 

Who  could  have  told,  by  looking  at  Mr.  Grewgious,  whether  he 
had  ever  known  ambition  or  disappointment  ?  He  had  been  bred 
to  the  Bar,  and  had  laid  himself  out  for  chamber  j^ractice  ;  to  draw 
deeds ;  "  convey  the  wise  it  call,"  as  Pistol  says.  But  Con- 
veyancing and  he  had  made  such  a  very  indifferent  marriage  of  it 
that  they  had  separated  by  consent — if  there  can  be  said  to  be 
separation  where  there  has  never  been  coming  together. 

No.  Coy  Conveyancing  would  not  come  to  Mr.  Grewgious. 
She  was  wooed,  not  won,  and  they  went  their  several  ways.  But 
an  Arbitration  being  bloAvn  towards  him  by  some  unaccountable 
wind,  and  he  gaining  great  credit  in  it  as  one  indefatigable  in 
seeking  out  right  and  doing  right,  a  pretty  fat  EeceivershijD  was 
next  blown  into  his  pocket  by  a  wind  more  traceable  to  its  source. 
So,  by  chance,  ho  had  found  his  niche.  Eeceiver  and  Agent  now, 
to  two  rich  estates,  and  deputing  their  legal  business,  in  an 
amount  worth  having,  to  a  firm  of  solicitors  on  the  floor  below,  he 
had  snuffed  out  his  ambition  (supposing  him  to  have  ever  lighted 
it)  and  had  settled  down  with  his  snuffers  for  the  rest  of  his  life 
under  the  dry  vine  and  fig-tree  of  P.  J.  T.,  who  planted  in 
seven  teen-fort3^-seven. 

Many  accounts  and  account-books,  many  files  of  correspondence, 
and  several  strong  boxes,  garnished  Mr.  Grewgious's  room.  They 
can  scarcely  be  represented  as  having  lumbered  it,  so  conscientious 
and  precise  was  their  orderly  arrangement.  The  apprehension  of 
dying  suddenly,  and  leaving  one  fact  or  one  figure  with  an}^  in- 
completeness or  obscurity  attaching  to  it,  would  have  stretched 
Mr.  Grewgious  stone  dead  any  day.  The  largest  fidelity  to  a 
trust  was  the  life-blood  of  the  man.  There  are  sorts  of  life-blood 
that  course  more  quickly,  more  gaily,  more  attractively  ;  but  there 
is  no  better  sort  in  circulation. 

There  was  no  luxury  in  his  room.  Even  its  comforts  were 
limited  to  its  being  dry  and  warm,  and  having  a  snug  though 
faded  fireside.  What  may  be  called  its  jirivate  life  was  confined 
to  the  hearth,  and  an  easy  chair,  and  an  old-fashioned  occasional 
round  table  that  was  brought  out  upon  the  rug  after  business 
hours,  from  a  corner  where  it  elsewise  remained  turned  up  like  a 
shilling  mahogany  shield.     Behind  it,  when  standing  thus  on  the 


A   PICTUEE   AKD   A   RING.  77 

defensive,  was  a  closet,  usually  containing  something  good  to 
drink.  An  outer  room  was  the  clerk's  room  ;  Mr.  Grewgious's 
sleeping-room  was  across  the  common  stair ;  and  he  held  some  not 
empty  cellarage  at  the  bottom  of  the  common  stair.  Three  hundred 
days  in  the  year,  at  least,  he  crossed  over  to  the  hotel  in  Furnival's 
Inn  for  his  dinner,  and  after  dinner  crossed  back  again,  to  make  the 
most  of  these  simplicities  until  it  should  become  broad  business 
day  once  more,  with  P.  J.  T.,  date  seventeen-forty-seven. 

As  Mr.  Grewgious  sat  and  wrote  by  his  fire  that  afternoon,  so 
did  the  clerk  of  Mr.  Grewgious  sit  and  write  by  his  fire.  A  pale, 
puffy-faced,  dark-haired  person  of  thirty,  with  big  dark  eyes  that 
Avholly  wanted  lustre,  and  a  dissatisfied  doughy  complexion,  that 
seemed  to  ask  to  be  sent  to  the  baker's,  this  attendant  was  a 
mysterious  being,  possessed  of  some  strange  power  over  Mr.  Grew- 
gious. As  though  he  had  been  called  into  existence,  like  a  fabu- 
lous Familiar,  by  a  magic  spell  which  had  failed  when  required  to 
dismiss  him,  he  stuck  tight  to  Mr.  Grewgious's  stool,  although 
Mr.  Grewgious's  comfort  and  convenience  would  manifestly  have 
been  advanced  by  dispossessing  him.  A  gloomy  person  with 
tangled  locks,  and  a  general  air  of  having  been  reared  under  the 
shadow  of  that  baleful  tree  of  Java  which  has  given  shelter  to 
more  lies  than  the  whole  botanical  kingdom,  Mr.  Grewgious, 
nevertheless,  treated  him  with  unaccountable  consideration. 

"  Now,  Bazzard,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  on  the  entrance  of  his 
clerk:  looking  up  from  his  papers  as  he  arranged  them  for  the 
night :  "  what  is  in  the  wind  besides  fog  ?" 

"  Mr.  Drood,"  said  Bazzard. 

"What  of  him?" 

"  Has  called,"  said  Bazzard. 

"  You  might  have  shown  him  in." 

"  I  am  doing  it,"  said  Bazzard. 

The  visitor  came  in  accordingly. 

"  Dear  me  !"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  looking  round  his  pair  of  office 
candles.  "  I  thought  you  had  called  and  merely  left  your  name, 
and  gone.  How  do  you  do,  Mr.  Edwin?  Dear  me,  you're 
choking !" 

"  It's  this  fog,"  returned  Edwin ;  "  and  it  makes  my  eyes  smart,, 
like  C^ayenne  pepper." 

"  Is  it  really  so  bad  as  that  ?  Pray  undo  your  wrappers.  It's 
fortunate  I  have  so  good  a  fire ;  but  Mr.  Bazzard  has  taken  care 
of  me." 

"  No  I  haven't,"  said  Mr.  Bazzard  at  the  door. 

"  Ah  !  Then  it  follows  that  I  must  have  taken  care  of  myself 
without  observing  it,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  Pray  be  seated  in 
my  chair.  No.  I  beg !  Coming  out  of  such  an  atmosphere,  in 
my  chair." 

Edwin  took  the  easy  chair  in  the  corner  ;  and  the  fog  he  had 
brought  in  with  him,  and  the  fog  he  took  oif  with  his  great-coat 
and  neck-shawl,  was  speedily  licked  up  by  the  eager  fire. 

"  I  look,"  said  Edwin,  smiling,  "  as  if  I  had  come  to  stop." 

" — By-the-by,"  cried  Mr.  Grewgious;  "excuse  my  interrupting 
you;    do  stop.'    The  fog  may  clear  in  an  hour  or  two.     AVe  can 


78  THE    MYSTESY   OF   EDWIN   DHOOD. 

have    dinner   in   from    just   across    Holborn.      You   liad   better 
take  yonr  cayenne  pepper  here  than  outside  ;  pray  stop  and  dine." 

"  You  are  very  -kind,"  said  Edwin,  glancing  about  him,  as 
though  attracted  by  the  notion  of  a  new  and  relishing  sort  of 
gipsy-party. 

"  Not  at  all,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious  ;  "  you  are  very  kind  to  join 
issue  with  a  bachelor  in  chambers,  and  take  pot-luck.  And  I'll 
ask,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  dropping  his  voice,  and  speaking  with 
a  twinkling  eye,  as  if  inspired  with  a  bright  thought :  "  I'll  ask 
Bazzard.     He  mightn't  like  it  else.     Bazzard  i" 

Bazzard  reappeared.  ^ 

"  Dine  presently  with  Mr.  Drood  and  me." 

"  If  I  am  ordered  to  dine,  of  course  I  will,  sir,"  was  the  gloomy 
answer. 

"  Save  the  man !"  cried  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  You're  not  ordered ; 
you're  invited." 

"  Thank  you,  sir,"  said  Bazzard  ;  "  in  that  case  I  clon't  care  if 
I  do." 

"  That's  arranged.  And  perhaps  j^ou  wouldn't  mind,"  said 
Mr.  Grewgious,  "  stepping  over  to  the  hotel  in  Furnival's,  and 
asking  them  to  send  in  materials  for  laying  the  cloth.  For  dinner 
we'll  have  a  tureen  of  the  hottest  and  strongest  soup  available, 
and  we'll  have  the  best  made-dish  that  can  be  recommended,  and 
we'll  have  a  joint  (such  as  a  haunch  of  mutton),  and  we'll  have 
a  goose,  or  a  turkey,  or  any  little  stuffed  thing  of  that  sort  that 
may  happen  to  be  in  the  bill  of  fare — in  short,  we'll  have  what- 
ever there  is  on  hand." 

These  liberal  directions  Mr.  Grewgious  issued  with  his  usual 
air  of  reading  an  inventory,  or  repeating  a  lesson,  or  doing  any- 
thing else  by  rote.  Bazzard,  after  drawing  out  the  round  table, 
withdrew  to  execute  them. 

"  I  was  a  little  delicate,  you  see,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  in  a 
lower  tone,  after  his  clerk's  departure,  "  about  employing  him  in 
the  foraging  or  commissariat  department.  Because  he  mightn't 
like  it." 

"  He  seems  to  have  his  own  way,  sir,"  remarked  Edwin. 

"  His  own  way  ?"  returned  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  Oh  dear  no ! 
Poor  fellow,  you  quite  mistake  him.  If  he  had  his  own  way,  he 
wouldn't  be  here." 

"  I  wonder  where  he  would  be  !"  Edwin  thought.  But  he  only 
thought  it,  because  Mr.  Grewgious  came  and  stood  himself  with  his 
back  to  the  other  corner  of  the  fire,  and  his  shoulder-blades  against 
the  chimneypiece,  and  collected  his  skirts  for  easy  conversation. 

"  I  take  it,  without  having  the  gift  of  prophecy,  that  you  have 
done  me  the  favor  of  looking  in  to  mention  that  you  are  going 
down  yonder — where  I  can  tell  you,  you  are  expected — and  to 
offer  to  execute  any  little  commission  from  me  to  my  charming 
ward,  and  perhaps  to  sharpen  me  up  a  bit  in  any  proceedings  ? 
Eh,  Mr.  Edwin  ?" 

"  I  called,  sir,  before  going  down,  as  an  act  of  attention." 

"  Of  attention  !"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  Ah !  of  course,  not  of 
impatience  ?" 


A   PICTURE   AND    A    RING.  79 

"  Impatience,  sir?" 

Mr.  Grewgious  had  meant  to  be  arcli — not  that  he  in  the 
remotest  degree  expressed  that  meaning — and  had  brought  him- 
self into  scarcely  supportable  proximity  with  the  fire,  as  if  to 
burn  the  fullest  effect  of  his  archness  into  himself,  as  other  subtle 
impressions  are  burnt  into  hard  metals.  But  his  archness  sud- 
denly flying  before  the  composed  face  and  manner  of  his  visitor, 
and  only  the  fire  remaining,  he  started  and  rubbed  himself. 

"  I  have  lately  been  down  yonder,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  re- 
arranging his  skirts ;  "  and  that  was  what  1  referred  to,  when  I 
said  I  could  tell  you  you  are  expected." 

"  Indeed,  sir !  Yes ;  I  knew  that  Pussy  was  looking  out  for 
me." 

"  Do  you  keep  a  cat  down  there  ?"  asked  Mr.  Grewgious. 
Edwin  coloured  a  little,  as  he  explained :  "  I  call  Eosa  Pussy." 
"  Oh,  really,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  smoothing  down  his  head  ; 
"  that's  very  affable." 

Edwin  glanced  at  his  face,  uncertain  whether  or  no  he  seriously 
objected  to  the  appellation.  But  Edwin  might  as  well  have  glanced 
at  the  face  of  a  clock. 

"  A  pet  name,  sir,"  he  explained  again. 

"  Umps,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  with  a  nod.  But  with  such  an 
extraordinary  compromise  between  an  unqualified  assent  and  a 
qualified  dissent,  that  his  visitor  was  much  disconcerted. 

"  Did  PRosa "  Edwin  began,  by  way  of  recovering  him- 
self. 

"  PRosa  ?"  repeated  Mr.  Grewgious. 

*'  I  was  going  to  say  Pussy,  and  changed  my  mind ; — did  she 
tell  you  anything  about  the  Landlesses  ?" 

"  No,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  What  is  the  Landlesses  ?  An. 
estate  ?     A  villa  ?     A  farm  ?" 

"  A  brother  and  sister.     The  sister  is  at  the  Nuns'  House,  and 

has  become  a  great  friend  of  P " 

"  PRosa's,"  Mr.  Grewgious  struck  in,  with  a  fixed  face. 
"  She  is  a  strikingly  handsome  girl,   sir,  and  I  thought  she 
might   have   been   described  to   you,   or   presented  to  you,  per- 
haps ?" 

"  Neither,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  But  here  is  Bazzard." 
Bazzard  returned,  accompanied  b}'  two  waiters — an  immoveable 
waiter,  and  a  flying  waiter ;  and  the  three  brought  in  with  them 
as  much  fog  as  gave  a  new  roar  to  the  fire.  The  flying  waiter, 
who  had  brought  everything  on  his  shoulders,  laid  the  cloth  with 
amazing  rapidity  and  dexterity ;  while  the  immoveable  waiter, 
who  had  brought  nothing,  found  fault  with  him.  The  flying 
waiter  then  highly  polished  all  the  glasses  he  had  brought, 
and  the  immoveable  waiter  looked  through  them.  The  flying 
waiter  then  flew  across  Holborn  for  the  soup,  and  flew  back 
again,  and  then  took  another  flight  for  the  made-dish,  and  flew 
back  again,  and  then  took  another  flight  for  the  joint  and  poultry, 
and  flew  back  again,  and  between  whiles  took  supplementary 
flights  for  a  great  variety  of  articles,  as  it  was  discovered  from 
time  to  time  that  the  immoveable  waiter  had  forgotten  them  all. 


80  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

But  let  the  flying  waiter  cleave  the  air  as  he  might,  he  was  always 
reproached  on  his  return  by  the  immoveable  waiter  for  bringing 
fog  with  him,  and  being  out  of  breath.  At  the  conclusion  of  the 
repast,  by  which  time  the  flying  waiter  was  severely  blown,  the 
immoveable  waiter  gathered  up  the  tablecloth  under  his  arm  with 
a  grand  air,  and  having  sternly  (not  to  say  with  indignation) 
looked  on  at  the  flying  waiter  while  he  set  clean  glasses  round, 
directed  a  valedictory  glance  towards  Mr.  Grewgious,  conveying : 
"  Let  it  be  clearly  understood  between  us  that  the  reward  is  mine, 
and  that  Nil  is  the  claim  of  this  slave,"  and  pushed  the  flying- 
waiter  before  him  out  of  the  room. 

It  was  like  a  highly  finished  miniature  painting  representing 
My  Lords  of  the  Circumlocutional  Department,  Commandership- 
in-Chief  of  any  sort.  Government.  It  was  quite  an  edifying  little 
picture  to  be  hung  on  the  line  in  the  National  Gallery. 

As  the  fog  had  been  the  proximate  cause  of  this  sumptuous 
repast,  so  the  fog  served  for  its  general  sauce.  To  hear  the  out- 
door clerks,  sneezing,  wheezing,  and  beating  their  feet  on  the 
gravel  was  a  zest  far  surpassing  Doctor  Kitchener's.  To  bid,, 
with  a  shiver,  the  unfortunate  flying  waiter  shut  the  door  before 
he  had  opened  it,  was  a  condiment  of  a  profounder  flavor  than 
Harvey.  And  here  let  it  be  noticed,  parenthetically,  that  the  leg 
of  this  young  man  in  its  application  to  the  door,  evinced  the  finest 
sense  of  touch :  always  preceding  himself  and  tray  (with  some- 
thing of  an  angling  air  about  it),  by  some  seconds :  and  always 
lingering  after  he  and  the  tray  had  disappeared,  like  Macbeth's 
leg  when  accompanying  him  off  the  stage  with  reluctance  to  the 
assassination  of  Duncan. 

The  host  had  gone  below  to  the  cellar,  and  had  brought  up 
bottles  of  ruby,  straw-colored,  and  golden,  drinks,  which  had 
ripened  long  ago  in  lands  where  no  fogs  are,  and  had  since  lain 
slumbering  in  the  shade.  Sparkling  and  tingling  after  so  long  a 
nap,  they  pushed  at  their  corks  to  help  the  corkscrew  (like 
prisoners  helping  rioters  to  force  their  gates),  and  danced  out 
gaily.  If  P.  J.  T.  in  seventeen-forty-seven,  or  in  any  other  year 
of  his  period,  drank  such  wines — then,  for  a  certainty,  P.  J.  T.  was 
Pretty  Jolly  Too. 

Externally,  Mr.  Grewgious  showed  no  signs  of  being  mellowed 
by  these  glowing  vintages.  Instead  of  his  drinking  them,  they 
might  have  been  poured  over  him  in  ]iis  high-dried  snuff  form, 
and  run  to  waste,  for  any  lights  and  shades  they  caused  to  flicker 
over  his  face.  Neither  was  his  manner  influenced.  But,  in 
his  wooden  way,  he  had  observant  eyes  for  Edwin ;  and  when,  at 
the  end  of  dinner,  he  motioned  Edwin  back  to  his  own  easy  chair 
in  the  fireside  corner,  and  Edwin  luxuriously  sank  into  it  after  very 
brief  remonstrance,  Mr.  Grewgious,  as  he  turned  his  seat  round 
towards  the  fire  too,  and  smoothed  his  head  and  face,  might  have 
been  seen  looking  at  his  visitor  between  his  smoothing  fingers. 

"  Bazzard  !"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  suddenly  turning  to  him. 

"  I  follow  you,  sir,"  returned  Bazzard  ;  who  had  done  his  work 
of  consiiming  meat  and  drink,  in  a  workmanlike  manner,  though 
mostly  in  speechlessness. 


A   PICTURE   AND    A    RING.  81 

*'  I  drink  to  yon,  Bazzard  ;  Mr.  Edwin,  success  to  Mr.  Bazzard  !" 
"  Success   to  Mr.  Bazzard  !"  echoed   Edwin,   with  a  totally  un- 
founded appearance  of  enthusiasm,   and  with  the  unspoken  addi- 
tion : — "  What  in,  I  wonder  !" 

"  And  May  !"  pursued  Mr.  Grewgious — "  I  am  not  at  liberty  to 
be  definite — May  ! — my  conversational  powers  are  so  very  limited 
that  I  know  I  shall  not  come  well  out  of  this — Mav  !--it  ought  to 

I/O 

be  put  imaginatively,  but  I  have  no  imagination —  May  ! — the 
thorn  of  anxiety  is  as  nearl}^  the  mark  as  I  am  likely  to  get — 
May  it  come  out  at  last !" 

Mr.  Bazzard  with  a  frowning  smile  at  the  fire,  put  a  hand  into 
his  tangled  locks,  as  if  the  thorn  of  anxiety  were  there  ;  then  into 
his  waistcoat,  as  if  it  were  there ;  then  into  his  pockets,  as  if  it 
were  there.  In  all  these  movements  he  was  closely  followed  by 
the  eyes  of  Edwin,  as  if  that  young  gentleman  expected  to  see  the 
thorn  in  action.  It  was  not  produced,  however,  and  Mr.  Bazzard 
merely  said  :  "  I  follow  you,  sir,  and  I  thank  you." 

"  I  am  going,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  jingling  his  glass  on  the 
table,  with  one  hand,  and  bending  aside  under  cover  of  the  other, 
to  whisper  to  Edwdn,  "  to  drink  to  my  ward.  But  I  put  Bazzard 
first.     He  mightn't  like  it  else." 

This  was  said  with  a  mysterious  wink ;  or  what  would  have 
been  a  wink  if,  in  Mr.  Grewgious's  hands,  it  could  have  been  quick 
onough.  So  Edwin  winked  responsively,  without  the  least  idea 
what  he  meant  by  doing  so. 

"  And  now,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  I  devote  a  bumper  to  the 
fair  and  fascinating  Miss  Rosa.  Bazzard,  the  fair  and  fascinating 
Miss  Rosa !" 

"  I  follow  5^ou,  sir,"  said  Bazzard,  "  and  I  pledge  you  !" 

"  And  so  do  I !"  said  Edwin. 

*'  Lord  bless  me !"  cried  Mr.  Grewgious,  breaking  the  blank 
silence  which  of  course  ensued :  though  why  these  pauses  should 
come  upon  us  when  we  have  performed  any  small  social  rite,  not 
directly  inducive  of  self-examination  or  mental  despondency,  who 
can  tell !  "I  am  a  particularly  Angular  man,  and  yet  I  fancy  (if 
I  may  use  the  word,  not  having  a  morsel  of  fancy),  that  I  could 
draw  a  picture  of  a  true  lover's  state  of  mind,  to-night." 

"  Let  us  follow  you,  sir,"  said  Bazzard,  "  and  have  the  pic- 
ture." 

"  Mr.  Edwin  will  correct  it  where  it's  w^rong,"  resumed  Mr.  Grew- 
gious, "  and  will  throw  in  a  few  touches  from  the  life.  I  dare  say 
it  is  wrong  in  many  particulars,  and  wants  many  touches  from  the 
life,  for  I  was  born  a  Chip,  and  have  neither  soft  sympathies  nor 
soft  experiences.  Well !  I  hazard  the  guess  that  the  true  lover's 
mind  is  completely  permeated  by  the  beloved  object  of  his 
iiffections.  I  hazard  the  guess  that  her  dear  name  is  precious  to 
him,  cannot  be  heard  or  repeated  without  emotion,  and  is  pre- 
served sacred.  If  he  has  any  distinguishing  ajDpellation  of  fond- 
ness for  her,  it  is  reserved  for  her,  and  is  not  for  common  ears.  A 
name  that  it  would  be  a  privilege  to  call  her  by,  being  alone  with 
her  own  bright  self,  it  would  be  a  liberty,  a  coldness,  an  insen- 
sibility, almost  a  breach  of  good  faith,  to  flaunt  elsewhere." 

G 


82  THE   MYSTERY  OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

It  was  wonderful  to  see  Mr.  Grewgious  sitting  bolt  U23riglity 
with  his  hands  on  his  knees,  continuonsly  chopping  this  discourse 
out  of  himself :  much  as  a  charity  boy  with  a  very  good  memory 
might  get  his  catechism  said :  and  evincing  no  correspondent 
emotion  whatever,  unless  in  a  certain  occasional  little  tinglino- 
perceptible  at  the  end  of  his  nose. 

"  My  picture,"  Mr.  Grewgious  proceeded,  "  goes  on  to  represent 
(under  correction  from  you,  Mr.  Edwin,)  the  true  lover  as  ever 
impatient  to  be  in  the  presence  or  vicinity  of  the  beloved  object 
of  his  affections ;  as  caring  very  little  for  his  ease  in  any  other 
society;  and  as  constantly  seeking  that.  If  I  was  to  say  seeking 
that,  as  a  bird  seeks  its  nest,  I  should  make  an  ass  of  myself^ 
because  that  would  trench  upon  what  I  understand  to  be  poetry ;. 
and  I  am  so  far  from  trenching  upon  poetry  at  any  time,  that  I 
never,  to  my  knowledge,  got  within  ten  thousand  miles  of  it.  And 
I  am  besides  totally  unacquainted  with  the  habits  of  birds,  except 
the  birds  of  Staple  Inn,  who  seek  their  nests  on  ledges,  and  in 
gutter-pipes  and  chimneypots,  not  constructed  for  them  by  the- 
beneficent  hand  of  Nature.  I  beg,  therefore,  to  be  understood  as 
foregoing  the  bird's-nest.  But  my  picture  does  represent  the  true 
lover  as  having  no  existence  separable  from  that  of  the  beloved 
object  of  his  affections,  and  as  living  at  once  a  doubled  life  and  a> 
halved  life.  And  if  I  do  not  clearly  express  what  I  mean  by  that, 
it  is  either  for  the  reason  that  having  no  conversational  powers,  I 
cannot  express  what  I  mean,  or  that  having  no  meaning,  I  do  not 
mean  what  I  fail  to  express.  Which,  to  the  best  of  my  belief,  is 
not  the  case." 

Edwin  had  turned  red  and  turned  white,  as  certain  points  of 
this  picture  came  into  the  light.  He  now  sat  looking  at  the  fire,, 
and  bit  his  lip. 

"  The  speculations  of  an  Angular  man,"  resumed  Mr.  Grewgious,. 
still  sitting  and  speaking  exactly  as  before,  "  are  probably  er- 
roneous on  so  globular  a  topic.  But  I  figure  to  myself  (subject,, 
as  before,  to  Mr.  Edwin's  correction),  that  there  can  be  no  coolness,, 
no  lassitude,  no  doubt,  no  indifference,  no  half  fire  and  half  smoke- 
state  of  mind,  in  a  real  lover.  Pray  am  I  at  all  near  the  mark  in 
my  picture  ?" 

As  abrupt  in  his  conclusion  as  in  his  commencement  and  pro- 
gress, he  jerked  this  inquiry  at  Edwin,  and  stopped  when  one 
might  have  supposed  him  in  the  middle  of  his  oration. 

"  I  should  say,  sir,"  stammered  Edwin,  "  as  you  refer  the 
question  to  me " 

"  Yes,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  I  refer  it  to  you,  as  an 
authority." 

"  I  should  say  then,  sir,"  Edwin  went  on,  embarrassed,  "  that 
the  picture  you  have  drawn,  is  generally  correct;  but  I  submit 
that  perhaps  you  may  be  rather  hard  upon  the  unlucky  lover." 

"  Likely  so,"  assented  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  likely  so.  I  am  a  hard 
man  in  the  grain." 

"  He  may  not  show,"  said  Edwin,  "  all  he  feels ;  or  he  may 
not " 

There  he  stopped  so  long,  to  find  the  rest  of  his  sentence,  that 


A   PICTURE   AND   A   KING.  83 

Mr.  Grewgioiis  rendered  his  difficulty  a  thousand  times  the  greater, 
by  unexpectedly  striking  in  with : 

"Iso  to  be  sure;  he  may  noil'' 

After  that,  they  all  sat  silent ;  the  silence  of  Mr.  Bazzard  being 
occasioned  by  slumber. 

"  His  responsibility  is  very  great  though,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious, 
at  length,  with  his  eyes  on  the  fire. 

Edwin  nodded  assent,  with  Ms  eyes  on  the  fire. 

"  And  let  him  be  sure  that  he  trifles  with  no  one,"  said 
Mr.  Grewgious  ;  "  neither  with  himself,  nor  with  any  other." 

Edwin  bit  his  lijD  again,  and  still  sat  looking  at  the  fire. 

"  He  must  not  make  a  plaything  of  a  treasure.  Woe  betide 
him  if  he  does !  Let  him  take  that  well  to  heart,"  said  Mr.  Grew- 
gious. 

Though  he  said  these  things  in  short  sentences,  much  as  the 
supposititious  charity  boy  just  now  referred  to,  might  have 
repeated  a  verse  or  two  from  the  Book  of  Proverbs,  there  was 
something  dreamy  (for  so  literal  a  man)  in  the  way  in  which  he 
now  shook  his  right  forefinger  at  the  live  coals  in  the  grate,  and 
again  fell  silent. 

But  not  for  long.  As  he  sat  upright  and  stiif  in  his  chair,  he 
suddenly  rapped  his  knees,  like  the  carved  image  of  some  queer 
Joss  or  other  coming  out  of  its  reverie,  and  said  :  "  We  must 
finish  this  bottle,  Mr.  Edwin.  Let  me  help  you.  I'll  help  Bazzard, 
too,  though  he  is  asleep.     He  mightn't  like  it  else." 

He  helped  them  both,  and  helped  himself,  and  drained  his  glass, 
and  stood  it  bottom  upward  on  the  table,  as  though  he  had  just 
caught  a  bluebottle  in  it. 

"  And  now,  Mr.  Edwin,"  he  proceeded,  wiping  his  mouth  and 
hands  upon  his  handkerchief:  "  to  a  little  piece  of  business.  You 
received  from  me,  the  other  day,  a  certified  copy  of  Miss  Eosa's 
father's  will.  You  knew  its  contents  before,  but  you  received 
it  from  me  as  a  matter  of  business.  I  should  have  sent  it  to 
Mr.  Jasper,  but  for  Miss  Eosa's  wishing  it  to  come  straight  to 
you,  in  preference.     You  received  it  ?" 

"  Quite  safely,  sir." 

*'  You  should  have  acknowledged  its  receipt,"  said  Mr.  Grew- 
gious, "business  being  business  all  the  world  over.  However, 
you  did  not." 

"  I  meant  to  have  acknowledged  it  when  I  first  came  in  this 
evening,  sir." 

"  Not  a  business-like  acknowledgment,"  returned  Mr.  Grewgious; 
"  however,  let  that  pass.  Now,  in  that  document  you  have 
observed  a  few  words  of  kindly  allusion  to  its  being  left  to 
me  to  discharge  a  little  trust,  confided  to  me  in  conversation,  at 
such  time  as  I  in  my  discretion  may  think  best." 

"  Yes,  sir." 

"  Mr.  Edwin,  it  came  into  my  mind  just  now,  when  I  was  looking 
at  the  fire,  that  I  could,  in  my  discretion,  acquit  myself  of  that 
trust  at  no  better  time  than  the  present.  Favor  me  with  your 
attention,  half  a  minute." 

He  took  a  bunch  of  keys  from  his  pocket,  singled  out  by  the 

G  2 


84  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DKOOD. 

candle-liglit  tlie  key  lie  wanted,  and  then,  with  a  candle  in  his 
hand,  went  to  a  bureau  or  escritoire,  unlocked  it,  touched  the 
spring  of  a  little  secret  drawer,  and  took  from  it  an  ordinary  ring- 
case  made  for  a  single  ring.  With  this  in  his  hand,  he  returned 
to  his  chair.  As  he  held  it  up  for  the  young  man  to  see,  his  hand 
trembled. 

"  Mr.  Edwin,  this  rose  of  diamonds  and  rubies  delicately  set  in 
gold,  was  a  ring  belonging  to  Miss  Eosa's  mother.  It  was  removed 
from  her  dead  hand,  in  my  presence,  with  such  distracted  grief  as  I 
hope  it  may  never  be  my  lot  to  contemplate  again.  Hard  man  as 
I  am,  I  am  not  hard  enough  for  that.  See  how  bright  these  stones 
shine  !"  opening  the  case.  "  And  yet  the  eyes  that  were  so  much 
brighter,  and  that  so  often  looked  upon  them  with  a  light  and  a 
proud  heart,  have  been  ashes  among  ashes,  and  dust  among  dust, 
some  years !  If  I  had  any  imagination  (which  it  is  needless  to 
say  I  have  not),  I  might  imagine  that  the  lasting  beauty  of  these 
stones  was  almost  cruel." 

He  closed  the  case  again  as  he  spoke. 

"  This  ring  was  given  to  the  young  lady  who  was  drowned  so 
early  in  her  beautiful  and  happy  career,  l3y  her  husband,  when 
they  first  plighted  their  faith  to  one  another.  It  was  he  who 
removed  it  from  her  unconscious  hand,  and  it  was  he  who,  when 
his  death  drew  ver}^  near,  placed  it  in  mine.  The  trust  in  which  I 
received  it,  was,  that,  you  and  Miss  Rosa  growing  to  manhood 
and  womanhood,  and  your  betrothal  prospering  and  coming  to 
maturity,  I  should  give  it  to  you  to  place  upon  her  finger.  Failing 
those  desired  results,  it  was  to  remain  in  my  possession." 

Some  trouble  was  in  the  young  man's  face,  and  some  indecision 
was  in  the  action  of  his  hand,  as  Mr.  Grewgious,  looking  steadfastly 
at  him,  gave  him  the  ring. 

"  Your  placing  it  on  her  finger,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  will  be 
the  solemn  seal  upon  your  strict  fidelity  to  the  living  and  the 
dead.  You  are  going  to  her,  to  make  the  last  irrevocable  prepa- 
rations for  your  marriage.     Take  it  with  3^ou." 

The  young  man  took  the  little  case,  and  placed  it  in  his  breast. 

"  If  anything  should  be  amiss,  if  anything  should  be  even 
slightly  wrong,  between  you ;  if  you  should  have  any  secret  con- 
sciousness that  you  are  committing  yourself  to  this  step  for 
no  higher  reason  than  because  you  have  long  been  accustomed  to 
look  forward  to  it ;  then,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  I  charge  you 
once  more,  by  the  living  and  by  the  dead,  to  bring  that  ring  back 
to  me !" 

Here  Bazzard  awoke  himself  by  his  own  snoring ;  and,  as  is 
usual  in  such  cases,  sat  apoplectically  staring  at  vacancy,  as  defying 
vacancy  to  accuse  him  of  having  been  asleep. 

"  Bazzard  !"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  harder  than  ever. 

"  I  follow  you,  sir,"  said  liazzard,  "  and  I  have  been  following 

you." 

"  In  discharge  of  a  trust,  I  have  handed  Mr.  Edwin  Drood  a 
ring  of  diamonds  and  rubies.     You  see  ?" 

Edwin  reproduced  the  little  case,  and  opened  it ;  and  Bazzard 
looked  into  it. 


A    PICTURE    AND   A    RING.  85 

"  I  follow  you  both,  sir,"  returned  Bazzard,  "  and  I  witness  tlie 
transaction." 

Evidently  anxious  to  get  away  and  be  alone,  Edwin  Drood  now 
resumed  his  outer  clothing,  muttering  something  about  time  and 
appointments.  The  fog  was  reported  no  clearer  (by  the  flying 
waiter,  who  alighted  Jfroni  a  sjDeculative  flight  in  the  coffee 
interest),  but  he  went  out  into  it ;  and  Bazzard,  after  his  manner, 
"  followed  "  him. 

Mr.  Grewgious,  left  alone,  walked  softly  and  slowly  to  and  fro, 
for  an  hour  and  more.  He  was  restless  to-night,  and  seemed 
dispirited. 

"  I  hoj)e  I  have  done  right,"  he  said.  "  The  appeal  to  him 
seemed  necessary.  It  was  hard  to  lose  the  ring,  and  yet  it  must 
have  gone  from  me  very  soon." 

He  closed  the  empty  little  drawer  with  a  sigh,  and  shut  and 
locked  the  escritoire,  and  came  back  to  the  solitary  fireside. 

"  Her  ring,"  he  went  on.  "  Will  it  come  back  to  me  ?  My 
mind  hangs  about  her  ring  very  uneasily  to-night.  But  that  is 
explainable.  I  have  had  it  so  long,  and  I  have  prized  it  so  much ! 
I  wonder " 

He  was  in  a  wondering  mood  as  well  as  a  restless ;  for,  though 
he  checked  himself  at  that  point,  and  took  another  walk,  he 
resumed  his  wondering  when  he  sat  down  again. 

"  I  wonder  (for  the  ten  thousandth  time,  and  what  a  weak  fool  I, 
for  what  can  it  signify  now  !)  whether  he  confided  the  charge  of 

their  orphan  child  to  me,  because  he  knew Good  God,  how  like 

her  mother  she  has  become ! 

"  I  wonder  whether  he  ever  so  much  as  suspected  that  some  one 
doted  on  her,  at  a  hopeless,  speechless  distance,  when  he  struck  in 
and  won  her.  I  wonder  whether  it  ever  crept  into  his  mind  who 
that  unfortunate  some  one  was ! 

*'  I  wonder  whether  I  shall  sleep  to-night !  At  all  events,  I  will 
shut  out  the  world  with  the  bedclothes,  and  try." 

Mr.  Grewgious  crossed  the  staircase  to  his  raw  and  foggy  bed- 
room, and  was  soon  ready  for  bed.  Dimly  catching  sight  of  his 
face  in  the  misty  looking-glass,  he  held  his  candle  to  it  for  a 
moment. 

*'  A  likely  some  one,  you,  to  come  into  anybody's  thoughts  in 
such  an  aspect!"  he  exclaimed.  "There,  there!  there!  Get  to 
bed,  poor  man,  and  cease  to  jabber !" 

With  that,  he  extinguished  his  light,  pulled  ujd  the  bedclothes 
around  him,  and  with  another  sigh  shut  out  the  world.  And  yet 
there  are  such  unexplored  romantic  nooks  in  the  unlikcliest  men, 
that  even  old  tinderous  and  touch-woody  P.  J.  T.  Possibly 
Jabbered  Thus,  at  some  odd  times,  in  or  about  seventeen-forty- 
seven. 


86  THE   MYSTERY   OF  EDWIN   DROOD. 

CHAPTER  Xir. 

A   NIGHT   WITH   DURDLES. 

When  Mr.  Sapsea  lias  nothing  better  to  do,  towards  evening,  and 
finds  tlie  contemplation  of  his  own  profundity  becoming  a  little 
monotonous  in  spite  of  the  vastness  of  the  subject,  he  often  takes 
an  airing  in  the  Cathedral  Close  and  thereabout.  He  likes  to  pass 
the  churchyard  with  a  swelling  air  of  proprietorship,  and  to 
encourage  in  his  breast  a  sort  of  benignant-landlord  feeling,  in 
that  he  has  been  bountiful  towards  that  meritorious  tenant, 
Mrs,  Sapsea,  and  has  publicly  given  her  a  prize.  He  likes  to  see 
a  stray  face  or  two  looking  in  through  the  railings,  and  perhaps 
reading  his  inscription.  Should  he  meet  a  stranger  coming  from 
the  churchyard  with  a  quick  step,  he  is  morally  convinced  that 
the  stranger  is  "  with  a  blush  retiring,"  as  monumentally 
directed. 

Mr.  Sapsea's  importance  has  received  enhancement,  for  he  has 
become  Mayor  of  Cloisterham.  Without  mayors  and  many  of 
them,  it  cannot  be  disputed  that  the  whole  framework  of  society — 
Mr.  Sapsea  is  confident  that  he  invented  that  forcible  figure — 
would  fall  to  pieces.  Mayors  have  been  knighted  for  "  going  up  " 
with  addresses  :  explosive  machines  intrepidly  discharging  shot 
and  shell  into  the  English  Grammar.  Mr.  Sapsea  may  "  go  up  " 
with  an  address.  Eise,  Sir  Thomas  Sapsea !  Of  such  is  the  salt 
of  the  earth. 

Mr.  Sapsea  has  improved  the  acquaintance  of  Mr.  Jasper,  since 
their  first  meeting  to  partake  of  port,  epitaph,  backgammon,  beef, 
and  salad.  Mr.  Sapsea  has  been  received  at  the  Gate  House  with 
kindred  hospitality  ;  and  on  that  occasion  Mr.  Jasper  seated  him- 
self at  the  piano,  and  sang  to  him,  tickling  his  ears — figuratively, 
long  enough  to  present  a  considerable  area  for  tickling.  What 
Mr.  Sapsea  likes  in  that  young  man,  is,  that  he  is  always  ready  to 
profit  by  the  wisdom  of  his  elders,  and  that  he  is  sound,  sir,  at  the 
core.  In  proof  of  which,  he  sang  to  Mr.  Sapsea  that  evening,  no 
kickshaw  ditties,  favorites  with  national  enemies,  but  gave  him 
the  genuine  George  the  Third  home-brewed ;  exhorting  him 
(as  "  my  brave  boys ")  to  reduce  to  a  smashed  condition  all 
other  islands  but  this  island,  and  all  continents,  peninsulas, 
isthmuses,  promontories,  and  other  geographical  forms  of  land 
soever,  besides  sweeping  the  seas  in  all  directions.  In  short,  he 
rendered  it  pretty  clear  that  Providence  made  a  distinct  mistake 
in  originating  so  small  a  nation  of  hearts  of  oak,  and  so  many 
other  verminous  peoples. 

Mr.  Sapsea,  walking  slowly  this  moist  evening  near  the  church- 
yard with  his  hands  behind  him,  on  the  look  out  for  a  blushing 
and  retiring  stranger,  turns  a  corner,  and  comes  instead  into  the 
goodly  presence  of  the  Dean,  conversing  with  the  Verger  and 
Mr,  Jasper.  Mr.  Sapsea  makes  his  obeisance,  and  is  instantly 
stricken  far  more  ecclesiastical  than  any  Archbishop  of  York,  or 
Canterbury. 


A   XIGHT   WITH   DUEDLES.  87 

"  You  are  evidently  going  to  write  a  book  about  us,  Mr.  Jasper," 
<]^uoth  the  Dean ;  *'  to  write  a  book  about  us.  Well !  We  are 
very  ancient,  and  we  ought  to  make  a  good  book.  We  are  not  so 
richly  endowed  in  possessions  as  in  age ;  but  perhaps  you  will  put 
that  in  your  book,  among  other  things,  and  call  attention  to  our 
wrongs." 

Mr.  Tope,  as  in  duty  bound,  is  greatly  entertained  by  this. 

"  I  really  have  no  intention  at  all,  sir,"  replies  Jasper,  "  of 
turning  author,  or  archasologist.  It  is  but  a  whim  of  mine.  And 
even  for  my  whim,  Mr.  Sapsea  here  is  more  accountable  than  I 
am." 

"How  so,  Mr.  Mayor?"  says  the  Dean,  with  a  nod  of  good- 
natured  recognition  of  his  Fetch.     "  How  is  that,  Mr.  Mayor  ?" 

"  I  am  not  aware,"  Mr.  Sapsea  remarks,  looking  about  him  for 
information,  "  to  what  the  Very  Eeverend  the  Dean  does  me  the 
honor  of  referring."  And  then  falls  to  stud3^ing  his  original  in 
minute  points  of  detail. 

"  Durdles,"  Mr.  Tope  hints. 

"  Ay  !"  the  Dean  echoes ;  "  Durdles,  Durdles !" 

"  The  truth  is,  sir,"  explains  Jasper,  "  that  my  curiosity  in  the 
man  was  first  really  stimulated  by  Mr.  Sapsea.  Mr.  Sapsea's 
knowledge  of  mankind,  and  power  of  drawing  out  whatever  is 
recluse  or  odd  around  him,  first  led  to  my  bestowing  a  second 
thought  upon  the  man :  though  of  course  I  had  met  him  con- 
stantly about.  You  would  not  be  surprised  by  this,  Mr.  Dean,  if 
you  had  seen  Mr.  Sapsea  deal  with  him  in  his  own  parlor,  as  I 
did." 

"  Oh !"  cries  Sapsea,  picking  up  the  ball  thrown  to  him  with 
ineffable  complacency  and  pomposity ;  "  yes,  yes.  The  Very 
Eeverend  the  Dean  refers  to  that  ?  Yes.  I  happened  to  bring 
Durdles  and  Mr.  Jasper  together.  1  regard  Durdles  as  a  Cha- 
Tacter." 

"  A  character,  Mr.  Sapsea,  that  with  a  few  skilful  touches  you 
turn  inside  out,"  says  Jasper. 

"  Nay,  not  quite  that,"  returns  the  lumbering  auctioneer.  "  I 
may  have  a  little  influence  over  him,  perhaps ;  and  a  little  insight 
into  his  character,  perhaps.  The  Very  Eeverend  the  Dean  will 
please  to  bear  in  mind  that  I  have  seen  the  world."  Here 
Mr.  Sapsea  gets  a  little  behind  the  Dean,  to  inspect  his  coat- 
buttons. 

"  Well !"  says  the  Dean,  looking  about  him  to  see  what  has 
become  of  his  copyist :  "I  hope,  Mr.  Mayor,  you  will  use  your 
study  and  knowledge  of  Durdles  to  the  good  purpose  of  exhorting 
him  not  to  break  our  worthy  and  respected  Choir-Master's  neck  ; 
we  cannot  afford  it ;  his  head  and  voice  are  much  too  valuable  to  us/' 

Mr.  Tope  is  again  highly  entertained,  and,  having  fallen  into 
respectful  convulsions  of  laughter,  subsides  into  a  deferential 
murmur,  importing  that  surely  any  gentleman  would  deem  it  a 
pleasure  and  an  honor  to  have  his  neck  broken,  in  return  for  such  a 
compliment  from  such  a  source. 

"  I  will  take  it  upon  myself,  sir,"  observes  Sapsea,  loftily,  "  to 
answer  for  Mr.  Jasper's  neck.     I  will  tell  Durdles  to  be  careful  of 


88  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

it.  He  will  mind  what  I  say.  How  is  it  at  present  en- 
dangered ?"  lie  inquires,  looking  about  liini  with  magnificent 
patronage. 

"  Only  by  my  making  a  moonlight  expedition  with  Durdles 
among  the  tombs,  vaults,  towers,  and  ruins,"  returns  Jasper. 
"  You  remember  suggesting  when  you  brought  us  together, 
that,  as  a  lover  of  the  picturesque,  it  might  be  worth  my 
while  ?" 

"  I  remember  !"  replies  the  auctioneer.  And  the  solemn  idiot 
really  believes  that  he  does  remember. 

"  Profiting  by  your  hint,"  pursues  Jasper,  "  I  have  had  some 
day-rambles  with  the  extraordinary  old  fellow,  and  we  are  to 
make  a  moonlight  hole-and-corner  exploration  to-night." 

"  And  here  he  is,"  says  the  Dean. 

Durdles,  with  his  dinner-bundle  in  his  hand,  is  indeed  beheld 
slouching  towards  them.  Slouching  nearer,  and  perceiving  the 
Dean,  he  pulls  off  his  hat,  and  is  slouching  away  with  it  under 
his  arm,  when  Mr.  Sapsea  stops  him. 

"  Mind  you  take  care  of  my  friend,"  is  the  injunction  Mr.  Sapsea 
lays  upon  him. 

''  What  friend  o'  yourn  is  dead  ?"  asks  Durdles.  "  No  orders  has 
come  in  for  any  friend  o'  yourn." 

"  I  mean  my  live  friend,  there." 

"  Oh  !  Him  ?"  says  Durdles.  "  He  can  take  care  of  himself, 
can  Mister  Jarsper." 

"  But  do  you  take  care  of  him  too,"  says  Sapsea. 

Whom  Durdles  (there  being  command  in  his  tone),  surlily 
surveys  from  head  to  foot. 

"  With  submission  to  his  Eeverence  the  Dean,  if  you'll  mind 
what  concerns  you,  Mr.  Saj^sea,  Durdles  he'll  mind  what  concerns^ 
him." 

"  You're  out  of  temper,"  says  Mr.  Sapsea,  winking  to  the  com- 
pany to  observe  how  smoothly  he  will  manage  him.  "  My  friend 
C(jncerns  me,  and  Mr.  Jas23er  is  my  friend.    And  you  are  my  friend." 

"  Don't  you  get  into  a  bad  habit  of  boasting,"  retorts  Durdles, 
with  a  grave  cautionary  nod.     "  It'll  grow  upon  you." 

"  You  are  out  of  temper,"  says  Sapsea  again ;  reddening,  but 
again  winking  to  the  company. 

"  I  own  to  it,"  returns  Durdles  ;  *'  I  don't  like  liberties." 

Mr.  Sapsea  winks  a  third  wink  to  the  company,  as  who  should 
say :  "I  think  you  will  agree  with  me  that  I  have  settled  liis 
business ;"  and  stalks  out  of  the  controversy. 

Durdles  then  gives  the  Dean  a  good  evening,  and  adding,  as  he 
puts  his  hat  on,  "  You'll  find  me  at  home.  Mister  Jarsper,  as  agreed, 
when  you  want  me ;  I'm  a  going  home  to  clean  myself,"  soon 
slouches  out  of  sight.  This  going  home  to  clean  himself  is  one  of 
the  man's  incomprehensible  compromises  with  inexorable  facts ; 
he,  and  his  hat,  and  his  boots,  and  his  clothes,  never  showing  any 
trace  of  cleaning,  but  being  uniformly  in  one  condition  of  dust 
and  grit. 

The  lamplighter  now  dotting  the  quiet  Close  with  specks  of 
light,  and  running  at  a  great  rate  up  and  down  his  little  ladder 


A   NIGHT    WITH   DUEDLES.  89 

"with,  that  object — his  little  ladder  under  the  sacred  shadow  of 
Avhose  inconvenience  generations  had  grown  wp,  and  which  all 
( jloisterhani  would  have  stood  aghast  at  the  idea  of  abolishing — 
the  Dean  withdraws  to  his  dinner,  Mr.  Tope  to  his  tea,  and 
Mr,  Jasper  to  his  piano.  There,  with  no  light  but  that  of  tho 
fire,  he  sits  chanting  choir-music  in  a  low  and  beautiful  voice,  for 
two  or  three  hours  ;•  in  short,  until  it  has  been  for  some  time  dark, 
and  the  moon  is  about  to  rise. 

Then,  he  closes  his  piano  softly,  softly  changes  his  coat  for  a 
pea-jacket  with  a  goodly  wicker-cased  bottle  in  its  largest  pocket, 
and,  putting  on  a  low-crowned  fla^^-brimmed  hat,  goes  softly  out. 
Why  does  he  move  so  softly  to-night  ?  No  outward  reason  i& 
apparent  for  it.  Can  there  be  any  sympathetic  reason  crouching 
darkly  within  him  ? 

Eej)airing  to  Durdles's  unfinished  house,  or  hole  in  the  city 
wall,  and  seeing  a  light  wdthin  it,  he  softly  picks  his  course 
among  the  gravestones,  monuments,  and  stony  lumber  of  the  yard, 
already  touched  here  and  there,  sidewise,  by  the  rising  moon. 
The  two  journeymen  have  left  their  two  great  saws  sticking  in 
their  blocks  of  stone ;  and  two  skeleton  journeymen  out  of  the 
Dance  of  Death  might  be  grinning  in  the  shadow  of  their  shel- 
tering sentry-boxes,  about  to  slash  away  at  cutting  out  the  grave- 
stones of  the  next  two  ]:>eople  destined  to  die  in  Cloisterham. 
Likely  enough,  the  two  think  little  of  that  now,  being  alive,  and 
perhaps  merry.  Curious,  to  make  a  guess  at  tho  two ; — or  sa,}' 
at  one  of  the  two  ! 

"Ho!  Durdles!" 

The  light  moves,  and  he  appears  wdth  it  at  the  door.  He  would 
seem  to  have  been  "  cleaning  himself"  with  the  aid  of  a  bottle, 
jug,  and  tumbler  ;  for  no  other  cleansing  instruments  are  visible 
in  the  bare  brick  room  with  rafters  overhead  and  no  plastered 
ceiling,  into  which  he  shows  his  visitor. 

"  Are  you  ready  ?" 

"  I  am  ready,  Mister  Jarsper.  Let  the  old  uns  come  out  if  they 
dare,  when  we  go  among  their  tombs.  My  spirits  is  ready  for 
'em." 

*'  Do  you  mean  animal  spirits,  or  ardent  ?" 

"  The  one's  the  t'other,"  answers  Durdles,  "  and  I  mean  'em 
both." 

He  takes  a  lantern  from  a  hook,  puts  a  match  or  two  in  his 
pocket  wherewith  to  light  it,  should  there  be  need,  and  they  go 
out  together,  dinner-bundle  and  all. 

Surely  an  imaccoun table  sort  of  expedition !  That  Durdles 
himself,  who  is  always  prowling  among  old  graves  and  ruins,  like 
a  Ghoule — that  he  should  be  stealing  forth  to  climb,  and  dive, 
and  wander  without  an  object,  is  nothing  extraordinary ;  but  that 
the  Choir  Master  or  any  one  else  should  hold  it  worth  his  while 
to  be  with  him,  and  to  study  moonlight  efiects  in  such  company, 
is  another  aft'air.  Surely  an  unaccountable  sort  of  expedition 
therefore ! 

"  'Ware  that  there  mound  by  the  yard-gate.  Mister  Jarsper." 

''I  see  it.     "What  is  itV" 


'90  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

"  Lime." 

Mr.  Jasper  stops,  and  waits  for  him  to  come  up,  for  lie  lags 
beliind.     "  What  you  call  quick-lime  ?" 

"  Ay !"  says  Durdles  ;  "  quick  enough  to  cat  your  hoots.  With 
a  little  handy  stirring,  quick  enough  to  eat  your  bones." 

They  go  on,  presentl}^  passing  the  red  windows  of  the  Travellers' 
Twopenny,  and  emerging  into  the  clear  moonlight  of  the  Monks' 
Vineyard.  This  crossed,  they  come  to  Minor  Canon  Corner  :  of 
which  the  greater  part  lies  in  shadow  until  the  moon  shall  rise 
higher  in  the  sky. 

The  sound  of  a  closing  house-door  strikes  their  ears,  and  two 
men  come  out.  These  are  Mr.  Crisparkle  and  Keville.  Jasper, 
with  a  strange  and  sudden  smile  upon  his  face,  lays  the  palm  of 
his  hand  upon  the  breast  of  Durdles,  stopping  him  where  he 
stands. 

At  that  end  of  Minor  Canon  Corner  the  shadow  is  profound 
in  the  existing  state  of  the  light :  at  that  end,  too,  there  is 
a  piece  of  old  dwarf  wall,  breast  high,  the  only  remaining  boun- 
dary of  what  was  once  a  garden,  but  is  now  the  thoroughfare. 
Jasper  and  Durdles  would  have  turned  this  wall  in  another 
instant ;  but,  stopping  so  short,  stand  behind  it. 

"  Those  two  are  only  sauntering,"  Jasper  whispers  ;  "  they  will 
go  out  into  the  moonlight  soon.  Let  us  keep  quiet  here,  or  they 
will  detain  us,  or  want  to  join  us,  or  what  not." 

Durdles  nods  assent,  and  falls  to  munching  some  fragments 
from  his  bundle.  Jasper  folds  his  arms  upon  the  top  of  the  wall, 
and,  with  his  chin  resting  on  them,  watches.  He  takes  no  note 
whatever  of  the  Minor  Canon,  but  watches  Neville,  as  though  his 
■eye  were  at  the  trigger  of  a  loaded  rifle,  and  he  had  covered  him, 
and  were  going  to  fire.  A  sense  of  destructive  power  is  so 
expressed  in  his  face,  that  even  Durdles  pauses  in  his  munching, 
and  looks  at  him,  with  an  unmunched  something  in  his  cheek. 

Meanwhile  Mr.  Crisparkle  and  Neville  walk  to  and  fro,  quietly 
talking  together.  What  they  say,  cannot  be  heard  consecutively ; 
but  Mr.  Jasper  has  already  distinguished  his  own  name  more  than 
once. 

"  This  is  the  first  day  of  the  week,"  Mr.  Crisparkle  can  be  dis- 
tinctly heard  to  observe,  as  they  turn  back  ;  "  and  the  last  da}"  of 
the  week  is  Christmas  Eve." 

"  You  may  be  certain  of  me,  sir." 

The  echoes  were  favorable  at  those  points,  but  as  the  two 
approach,  the  sound  of  their  talking  becomes  confused  again. 
The  word  "  confidence,"  shattered  by  the  echoes,  but  still  capable 
of  being,  pieced  together,  is  uttered  by  Mr.  Crisparkle.  As  they 
draw  still  nearer,  this  fragment  of  a  reply  is  heard:  "Not  de- 
served yet,  but  shall  be,  sir."  As  they  turn  away  again,  Jasper 
again  hears  his  own  name,  in  connexion  with  the  words  from 
Mr.  Crisparkle  :  "  Remember  that  I  said  I  answered  for  you  con- 
fidently." Then  the  sound  of  their  talk  becomes  confused  again  ; 
they  halting  for  a  little  while,  and  some  earnest  action  on  the 
part  of  Neville  succeeding.  When  they  move  once  more,  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle is  seen  to  look  up  at  the  sky,  and  to  point  before  him. 


A   NIGHT   WITH   DUBDLES.  91 

They  then  slowly  disappear ;    passing  out  into  the  moonlight  at 
the  oj)posite  end  of  the  Corner. 

It  is  not  until  they  are  gone,  that  Mr.  Jasper  moves.  But  then 
he  turns  to  Durdles,  and  bursts  into  a  fit  of  laughter.  Durdles, 
who  still  has  that  suspended  something  in  his  cheek,  and  who 
sees  nothing  to  laugh  at,  stares  at  him  until  Mr.  Jasper  lays  his 
face  down  on  his  arms  to  have  his  laugh  out.  Then  Durdles 
holts  the  something,  as  if  desperately  resigning  himself  to  indi- 
gestion. 

Among  those  secluded  nooks  there  is  very  little  stir  or  move- 
ment after  dark.  There  is  little  enough  in  the  high-tide  of  the 
^ay,  but  there  is  next  to  none  at  night.  Besides  that  the  cheerfully 
frequented  High  Street  lies  nearly  parallel  to  the  spot  (the  old 
Cathedral  rising  between  the  two),  and  is  the  natural  channel  in 
which  the  Cloisterham  traffic  flows,  a  certain  awful  hush  pervades 
the  ancient  pile,  the  cloisters,  and  the  church^^ard,  after  dark, 
which  not  many  people  care  to  encounter.  Ask  the  first  hundred 
•citizens  of  Cloisterham,  met  at  random  in  the  streets  at  noon,  if 
they  believed  in  Ghosts,  they  would  tell  you  no ;  but  put  them 
to  choose  at  night  between  these  eerie  Precincts  and  the  thorough- 
fare of  shops,  and  you  would  find  that  ninety-nine  declared  for 
the  longer  round  and  the  more  frequented  way.  The  cause  of  this 
is  not  to  be  found  in  any  local  superstition  that  attaches  to  the 
Precincts — albeit  a  mysterious  lady,  with  a  child  in  her  arms  and 
a  rope  d.angling  from  her  neck,  has  been  seen  flitting  about  there 
by  sundry  witnesses  as  intangible  as  herself — but  it  is  to  be  sought 
in  the  innate  shrinking  of  dust  with  the  breath  of  life  in  it,  from 
dust  out  of  which  the  breath  of  life  has  passed  ;  also,  in  the  widely 
diffused,  and  almost  as  widely  unacknowledged,  reflection :  "  If 
the  dead  do,  under  any  circumstances,  become  visible  to  the  living, 
these  are  such  likely  surroundings  for  the  purpose  that  I,  the 
living,  will  get  out  of  them  as  soon  as  I  can." 

Hence,  when  Mr.  Jasper  and  Durdles  pause  to  glance  around 
them,  before  descending  into  the  crypt  by  a  small  side  door  of 
which  the  latter  has  a  ke}^  the  whole  expanse  of  moonlight  in 
their  view  is  utterly  deserted.  One  might  fancy  that  the  tide  of 
life  was  stemmed  by  Mr.  Jasper's  own  Gatehouse.  The  murmur 
of  the  tide  is  heard  beyond ;  but  no  wave  passes  the  archway,  over 
which  his  lamp  burns  red  behind  his  curtain,  as  if  the  building 
were  a  Lighthouse. 

They  enter,  locking  themselves  in,  descend  the  rugged  steps, 
and  are  down  in  the  Crypt.  The  lantern  is  not  wanted,  for  the 
moonlight  strikes  in  at  the  groined  windows,  bare  of  glass,  the 
broken  frames  for  which  cast  patterns  on  the  ground.  The  heavy 
pillars  which  support  the  roof  engender  masses  of  black  shade,  but 
between  them  there  are  lanes  of  light.  Up  and  down  these  lanes, 
they  walk,  Durdles  discoursing  of  the  "  old  uns  "  he  yet  counts 
on  disinterring,  and  slapping  a  wall,  in  which  he  considers  "  a 
whole  family  on  'em  "  to  be  stoned  and  earthed  u-p,  just  as  if  he 
were  a  familiar  friend  of  the  family.  The  taciturnity  of  Durdles 
is  for  the  time  overcome  by  Mr.  Jasper's  wicker  bottle,  which 
circulates  freely ; — in  the  sense,  that  is  to  say,  that  its  contents 


92  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

enter  freely  into  Mr.  Durdles's  circulation,  while  Mr.  Jasper  only 
rinses  his  month  once,  and  casts  forth  the  rinsing. 

They  are  to  ascend  the  great  Tower.  On  the  steps  by  which 
they  rise  to  the  Cathedral,  Durdles  pauses  for  new  store  of  breath. 
The  steps  are  very  dark,  bnt  ont  of  the  darkness  they  can  see  the 
lanes  of  light  they  have  traversed.  Dnrdles  seats  himself  npon  a 
step.  Mr.  Jasper  seats  himself  npon  another.  The  odour  from  the 
wicker  bottle  (which  has  somehow  passed  into  Durdles's  keeping), 
soon  intimates  that  the  cork  has  been  taken  out ;  but  this  is  not 
ascertainable  through  the  sense  of  sight,  since  neither  can  descry 
the  other.  And  yet,  in  talking,  they  turn  to  one  another,  as> 
though  their  faces  could  commune  together. 

"  This  is  good  stuft',  Mister  Jarsper !" 

"  It  is  very  good  stuff,  I  hope.     I  bought  it  on  purpose." 

"  They  don't  show,  you  see,  the  old  uns  don't,  Mister  Jarsper !" 

"  It  would  be  a  more  confused  world  than  it  is,  if  they  could." 

"Well,  it  would  lead  towards  a  mixing  of  things,"  Durdles 
acquiesces  :  pausing  on  the  remark,  as  if  the  idea  of  ghosts  had  not 
previously  presented  itself  to  him  in  a  merely  inconvenient  light, 
domestically,  or  chronologically.  "  But  do  you  think  there  may 
be  Ghosts  of  other  things,  though  not  of  men  and  women  ?" 

"  What  things  ?  Flower-beds  and  watering-pots  ?  Horses  and 
harness  ?" 

"No.     Sounds." 

*  What  sounds  ?" 

"  Cries." 
•     "  What  cries  do  you  mean?     Chairs  to  mend?" 

"  No.  I  mean  screeches.  Now,  I'll  tell  you,  Mister  Jarsper. 
Wait  a  bit  till  I  put  the  bottle  right."  Here  the  cork  is. 
evidently  taken  out  again,  and  replaced  again.  "  There !  Noio 
it's  right !  This  time  last  year,  only  a  few  days  later,  I  happened 
to  have  been  doing  what  was  correct  by  the  season,  in  the  way  of 
giving  it  the  Avelcome  it  had  a  right  to  expect,  when  them  town- 
boys  set  on  me  at  their  worst.  At  length  I  gave  'em  the  slip,  and 
turned  in  here.  And  here  I  fell  asleep.  And  what  woke  me? 
The  ghost  of  a  cry.  The  ghost  of  one  terrific  shriek,  which 
shriek  was  followed  by  the  ghost  of  the  howl  of  a  dog :  a  long 
dismal  woeful  howl,  such  as  a  dog  gives  when  a  person's  dead. 
That  was  my  last  Christmas  Eve." 

"  What  do  you  mean  ?"  is  the  very  abrupt,  and,  one  might  say, 
fierce  retort. 

"  I  mean  that  I  made  inquiries  everywhere  about,  and  that  no 
living  ears  but  mine  heard  either  that  cry  or  that  howl.  So  I  say 
they  was  both  ghosts ;  though  why  they  came  to  me,  I've  never 
made  out." 

"  I  thought  you  were  another  kind  of  man,"  says  Jasper, 
scornfully. 

"  So  I  thought,  myself,"  answers  Durdles  with  his  usual  com- 
posure ;   "  and  yet  I  was  picked  out  for  it." 

Jasper  had  risen  suddenly,  when  he  asked  him  what  he  meant, 
and  he  now  says,  "  Come ;  we  shall  freeze  here  ;  lead  the  way." 

Durdles  complies,  not  over-steadily ;  opens  the  door  at  the  top 


A   NIGHT   WITH   DURDLES.  93 

of  the  steps  with  the  key  he  has  already  used ;  and  so  emerges 
on  the  Cathedral  level,  in  a  passage  at  tlie  side  of  the  chancel. 
Here,  the  moonlight  is  so  very  bright  again  that  the  colors  of  the 
nearest  stained-glass  window  are  thrown  upon  their  faces.  The 
appearance  of  the  unconscious  Durdles,  holding  the  door  open  for 
his  companion  to  follow,  as  if  from  the  grave,  is  ghastly  enough, 
with  a  purple  band  across  his  face,  and  a  yellow  splash  upon  his 
brow ;  but  he  bears  the  close  scrutiny  of  his  companion  in  an 
insensible  way,  although  it  is  prolonged  while  the  latter  fumbles 
among  his  pockets  for  a  key  confided  to  him  that  will  open  an 
iron  gate  so  to  enable  them  to  j)ass  to  the  staircase  of  the  great 
tower. 

"  That  and  the  bottle  are  enough  for  you  to  carry,"  he  says, 
giving  it  to  Durdles  ;  "  hand  your  bundle  to  me  ;  I  am  younger 
and  longer-winded  than  you."  Durdles  hesitates  for  a  moment 
between  bundle  and  bottle;  but  gives  the  preference  to  the  bottle 
as  being  by  far  the  better  company,  and  consigns  the  dry  weight 
to  his  fellow-exjDlorer. 

Then  they  go  up  the  winding  staircase  of  the  great  tower, 
toilsomely,  turning  and  turning,  and  lowering  their  heads  to 
avoid  the  stairs  above,  or  the  rough  stone  pivot  around  which 
they  twist.  Durdles  has  lighted  his  lantern,  by  drawing  from  the 
cold  hard  wall  a  spark  of  that  mysterious  fire  which  lurks  in 
everything,  and,  guided  by  this  speck,  they  clamber  up  among  the 
cobwebs  and  the  dust.  Their  way  lies  through  strange  places. 
Twice  or  thrice  they  emerge  into  level  low-arched  galleries, 
whence  they  can  look  down  into  the  moonlit  nave ;  and  where 
Durdles,  waving  his  lantern,  shows  the  dim  angels'  heads  upon  the 
corbels  of  the  roof,  seeming  to  watch  their  progress.  Anon,  they 
turn  into  narrower  and  steeper  staircases,  and  the  night  air  begins 
to  blow  ujDon  them,  and  the  chirp  of  some  startled  jackdaw 
or  frightened  rook  precedes  the  heavy  beating  of  wings  in  a 
confined  space,  and  the  beating  down  of  dust  and  straws  uj)on 
their  heads.  At  last,  leavino;  their  lio-ht  behind  a  stair — for  it 
blows  fresh  up  here — they  look  down  on  Cloisterham,  fair  to  see 
in  the  moonlight :  its  ruined  habitations  and  sanctuaries  of  the 
dead,  at  the  tower's  base :  its  moss-softened  red-tiled  roofs  and 
red-brick  houses  of  the  living,  clustered  beyond  :  its  river  winding 
down  from  the  mist  on  the  horizon,  as  though  that  were  its 
source,  and  already  heaving  with  a  restless  knowledge  of  its  ap- 
proach towards  the  sea. 

Once  again,  an  unaccountable  expedition  this !  Jasper  (always 
moving  softly  with  no  visible  reason)  contemplates  the  scene,  and 
especially  that  stillest  part  of  it  which  the  Cathedral  overshadows. 
But  he  contemplates  Durdles  quite  as  curiously,  and  Durdles  is  b}' 
times  conscious  of  liis  watchful  ejes. 

Only  by  times,  ..because  Durdles  is  growing  drowsy.  As 
aeronauts  lighten  the  Joad  ihey  carry,  when  they  wish  to  rise, 
similarly  Durdles  has  lightened  the  wicker  bottle  in  coming  up. 
Snatches  of  sleep  surprise  him  on  his  legs,  and  stop  him  in  his 
talk.  A  mild  fit  of  calenture  seizes  him,  in  which  he  deems  that 
the  ground,  so  far  below,  is  on  a  level  with  the  tower,  and  would 


94  THE    MYSTERY   OE    EDWIN   DKOOD. 

as  lief  walk  off  the  tower  into  tHe  air  as  not.  Such  is  his  state 
when  they  begin  to  come  down.  And  as  aeronauts  make  them- 
selves heavier  when  they  wish  to  descend,  similarly  Durdles 
charges  himself  with  more  liquid  from  the  wicker  bottle,  that  he 
may  come  down  the  better. 

The  iron  gate  attained  and  locked—  but  not  before  Durdles  has 
tumbled  twice,  and  cut  an  eyebrow  open  once — they  descend  into 
the  crypt  again,  with  the  intent  of  issuing  forth  as  they  entered. 
But,  while  returning  among  those  lanes  of  light,  Durdles  becomes 
so  very  uncertain,  both  of  foot  and  speech,  that  he  half  drops, 
half  throws  himself  down,  by  one  of  the  heavy  pillars,  scarcely 
less  heavy  than  itself,  and  indistinctly  appeals  to  his  companion 
for  forty  winks  of  a  second  each. 

"  If  you  will  have  it  so,  or  must  have  it  so,"  replies  Jasper,. 
"  I'll  not  leave  you  here.  Take  them,  while  I  walk  to  and 
fro." 

Durdles  is  asleep  at  once ;  and  in  his  sleep  he  dreams  a  dream. 

It  is  not  much  of  a  dream,  considering  the  vast  extent  of 
the  domains  of  dreamland,  and  their  wonderful  productions  ; 
it  is  only  remarkable  for  being  unusually  restless,  and  un- 
usually real.  He  dreams  of  lying  there,  asleep,  and  yet 
counting  his  companion's  footsteps  as  he  walks  to  and  fro. 
He  dreams  that  the  footsteps  die  away  into  distance  of  time  and 
of  space,  and  that  something  touches  him,  and  that  something 
falls  from  his  hand.  Then  something  clinks  and  gropes  about, 
and  he  dreams  that  he  is  alone  for  so  long  a  time,  that  the  lanes  ot 
light  take  new  directions  as  the  moon  advances  in  her  course. 
Erom  succeeding  unconsciousness,  he  passes  into  a  dream  of  slow 
uneasiness  from  cold ;  and  painfully  awakes  to  a  perception  of  the 
lanes  of  light — really  changed,  much  as  he  had  dreamed— and 
Jasper  walking  among  them,  beating  his  hands  and  feet. 

"  Holloa !"  Durdles  cries  out,  unmeaningly  alarmed. 

"  Awake  at  last  ?"  says  Jasper,  coming  up  to  him.  "  Do  you 
know  that  your  forties  have  stretched  into  thousands  ?" 

"  No." 

"  They  have  though." 

"  What's  the  time  ?" 

"  Hark !     The  bells  are  going  in  the  Tower !" 

They  strike  four  quarters,  and  then  the  great  bell  strikes. 

"  Two  !"  cries  Durdles,  scrambling  up ;  "  why  didn't  you  try  to 
wake  me.  Mister  Jarsper  ?" 

"  I  did.  I  might  as  well  have  tried  to  wake  the  dead  : — your 
own  family  of  dead,  up  in  the  corner  there." 

"  Did  you  touch  me  ?" 

"Touch  you?     Yes.     Shook  you." 

As  Durdles  recalls  that  touching  something  in  his  dream,  he 
looks  down  on  the  pavement,  and  sees  the  key  of  the  crypt  door 
lying  close  to  where  he  himself  lay. 

"  I  dropped  you,  did  I  ?"  he  says,  picking  it  up,  and  recalling 
that  part  of  his  dream.  As  he  gathers  himself  again  into  an  up- 
right position,  or  into  a  position  as  nearly  upright  as  he  ever  main- 
tains, he  is  again  conscious  of  being  watched  by  his  companion. 


A   NIGHT   WITH   DURDLES.  95^ 

"  Well  ?"  •  says  Jasper,  smiling.  "  Are  you  quite  ready  ?  Pray 
don't  hurry." 

'*  Let  me  get  my  bundle  right,  Mister  Jarsper,  and  I'm  with 
you." 

As  he  ties  it  afresh,  he  is  once  more  conscious  that  he  is  very 
narrowly  observed. 

"  What  do  you  suspect  me  of.  Mister  Jarsper  ?"  he  asks,  with 
drunken  displeasure.  "  Let  them  as  has  any  suspicions  of  Durdles, 
name  'em." 

^'I've  no  suspicions  of  you,  my  good  Mr.  Durdles;  but  I  have 
suspicions  that  my  bottle  was  filled  with  something  stiffer  than 
either  of  us  supposed.  And  I  also  have  suspicions,"  Jasper  adds, 
taking  it  from  the  pavement  and  turning  it  bottom  upward, 
"  that  it's  empty." 

Durdles  condescends  to  laugh  at  this.  Continuing  to  chuckle, 
when  his  laugh  is  over,  as  though  remonstrant  with  himself  on 
his  drinking  powers,  he  rolls  to  the  door  and  unlocks  it.  They 
both  pass  out,  and  Durdles  relocks  it,  and  pockets  his  key. 

"  A  thousand  thanks  for  a  curious  and  interesting  night,"  says 
Jasper,  giving  him  his  hand ;  "  you  can  make  your  own  way 
home  ?" 

"  I  should  think  so  !"  answers  Durdles.     "If  you  was  to  ofier 

Durdles  the  affront  to  show  him  his  way  home,  he  wouldn't  go 

home. 

Durdles  wouldn't  go  home  till  morning, 
And  then  Durdles  woiildn't  go  home, 

Durdles  wouldn't."     This,  with  the  utmost  defiance. 

"  Good-night,  then." 

"  Good-night,  Mister  Jarsper." 

Each  is  turning  his  own  way,  when  a  sharp  whistle  rends  the- 
silence,  and  the  jargon  is  yelped  out : 

"  Widdy  widdy  wen  ! 
I — ket — ches — Im — out — ar —  ter — ten. 
Widdy  widdy  wy  ! 

Then — E — don't — go — then — I — shy — 
"Widdy  Widdy  Wake-cock  warning  !" 

Instantly  afterwards,  a  rapid  fire  of  stones  rattles  at  the  Cathedral 
wall,  and  the  hideous  small  boy  is  beheld  opposite,  dancing  in 
the  moonlight. 

"  What !  Is  that  baby-devil  on  the  watch  there  !"  cries  Jasper 
in  a  fury  :  so  quickly  roused,  and  so  violent,  that  he  seems  an 
older  devil  himself.  "  I  shall  shed  the  blood  of  that  Impish 
wretch !  I  know  I  shall  do  it  !"  Eegardless  of  the  fire,  though  it 
hits  him  more  than  once,  he  rushes  at  Deputy,  collars  him,  and 
tries  to  bring  him  across.  But  Deputy  is  not  to  be  so  easily 
brought  across.  With  a  diabolical  insight  into  the  strongest  part 
of  his  position,  he  is  no  sooner  taken  by  the  throat  than  he  curls 
up  his  legs,  forces  his  assailant  to  hang  him,  as  it  were,  and 
gurgles  in  his  throat,  and  screws  his  body,  and  twists,  as  already 
undergoing  the  first  agonies  of  strangulation.  There  is  nothing 
for  it  but  to  drop  him.     He  instantly  gets  himself  together,  backs 


96  THE    MYSTERY   OF    EDWIX   DROOD. 

over  to  Durdles,  and  cries  to  his  assailant,  gnashing  the  great  gap 
in  front  of  his  mouth  with  rage  and  malice  : 

"  I'll  blind  yer,  s'elp  me !  I'll  stone  yer  eyes  out,  s'elp  me !  If 
I  don't  have  yer  eyesight,  bellows  me  !"  At  the  same  time 
^dodging  behind  Durdles,  and  snarling  at  Jasper,  now  from  this 
side  of  him,  and  now  from  that :  prepared,  if  pounced  upon,  to  dart 
away  in  all  manner  of  curvilinear  directions,  and,  if  run  down 
after  all,  to  grovel  in  the  dust,  and  cry  :  "  Now,  hit  me  when  I'm 
down  !     Do  It !" 

"  Don't  hurt  the  boy,  Mister  Jarsper,"  urges  Durdles,  shielding 
him.     "  Eecollect  yourself." 

"  He  followed  us  to-night,  when  we  first  came  here !" 

"  Yer  lie,  I  didn't !"  replies  Deputy,  in  his  one  form  of  polite 
contradiction. 

"  He  has  been  prowling  near  us  ever  since  !" 

"  Yer  lie,  I  haven't,"  returns  Deputy.  "  I'd  only  jist  come  out 
for  my  'elth  when  I  see  you  two  a  coming  out  of  the  Kinfreederel. 
If— 

"I — ket — clies — Im — out — ar — ter — ten," 

(with  the  usual  rhythm  and  dance,  though  dodging  behind 
Durdles),  "  it  ain't  my  fault,  is  it  ?" 

"  Take  him  home,  then,"  retorts  Jasper,  ferociously,  though 
with  a  strong  check  upon  himself,  "  and  let  my  eyes  be  rid  of 
the  sight  of  you  !" 

Deputy,  with  another  sharp  whistle,  at  once  expressing  his 
relief,  and  his  commencement  of  a  milder  stoning  of  Mr.  Durdles, 
begins  stoning  that  respectable  gentleman  home,  as  if  he  were  a 
reluctant  ox.  Mr.  Jasper  goes  to  his  Gate  House,  brooding.  And 
thus,  as  everything  comes  to  an  end,  the  unaccountable  expedition 
comes  to  an  end — for  the  time. 


THE   MYSTERY   OP   EDWIN   DROOD.  97 

CHAPTEE  XIII. 

BOTH    AT    THEIR    BEST. 

Miss  Twinkleton's  establishment  was  about  to  undergo  a  serene 
linsh.  The  Christmas  recess  was  at  hand.  What  had  once,  and 
at  no  remote  period,  been  called,  even  by  the  erudite  Miss  Twinkle- 
ton  herself,  "  the  half;"  but  what  was  now  called,  as  being  more 
-elegant,  and  more  strictly  collegiate ;  "  the  term,"  would  expire  to- 
morrow. A  noticeable  relaxation  of  discipline  had  for  some  few 
days  pervaded  the  Nuns'  House.  Club  suppers  had  occurred  in 
the  bedrooms,  and  a  dressed  tongue  had  been  carved  with  a  pair  of 
scissors,  and  handed  round  with  the  curling-tongs.  Portions  of 
marmalade  had  likewise  been  distributed  on  a  service  of  plates 
constructed  of  curlj)a]oer  ;  and  cowslip  wine  had  been  quaffed  from 
the  small  squat  measuring  glass  in  which  little  Rickitts  (a 
Junior  of  weakly  constitution),  took  her  steel  drops  daily.  The 
housemaids  had  been  bribed  with  various  fragments  of  riband,  and 
■sundry  pairs  of  shoes,  more  or  less  down  at  heel,  to  make  no 
mention  of  crumbs  in  the  beds ;  the  airiest  costumes  had  been  worn 
on  these  festive  occasions ;  and  the  daring  Miss  Ferdinand  had 
even  surprised  the  company  with  a  sprightly  solo  on  the  comb-and- 
curlpaper,  until  suffocated  in  her  own  pillow  by  two  flowing-haired 
executioners. 

Nor  were  these  the  only  tokens  of  dispersal.  Boxes  appeared  in 
ihe  bedrooms  (where  they  were  capital  at  other  times),  and  a  sur- 
prising amount  of  packing  took  place,  out  of  all  proportion  to  the 
■amount  packed.  Largesse,  in  the  form  of  odds  and  ends  of  cold 
€ream  and  pomatum,  and  also  of  hairpins,  was  freely  distributed 
-among  the  attendants.  On  charges  of  inviolable  secresy,  confi- 
■dences  were  interchanged  respecting  golden  youth  of  England 
expected  to  call,  "  at  home,"  on  the  first  opportunity.  Miss  Giggles 
(deficient  in  sentiment)  did  indeed  profess  that  she,  for  her  part, 
acknowledged  such  homage  by  making  faces  at  the  golden  youth  ; 
but  this  young  lady  was  outvoted  by  an  immense  majority. 

On  the  last  night  before  a  recess,  it  was  always  expressly  made 
u  point  of  honor  that  nobody  should  go  to  sleep,  and  that  Ghosts 
should  be  encouraged  by  all  possible  means.  This  compact  in- 
variabl}'-  broke  down,  and  all  the  young  ladies  went  to  sleep  very 
soon,  and  got  up  very  early. 

The  concluding  ceremony  came  off  at  twelve  o'clock  on  the  day 
•of  departure  ;  when  Miss  Twinkleton,  supported  by  Mrs.  Tisher, 
held  a  Dra wing-Room  in  her  own  apartment  (the  globes  already 
covered  with  brown  holland),  where  glasses  of  white  wine,  and 
plates  of  cut  pound-cake  were  discovered  on  the  table.  Miss 
Twinkleton  then  said,  Ladies,  another  revolving  year  had  brought 
us  round  to  that  festive  period  at  which  the  first  feelings  of  our 

nature  bounded  in  our Miss  Twinkleton  was  annually  going 

to  add  "  bosoms,"  but  annually  stopped  on  the  brink  of  that 
expression,  and  substituted  "  hearts."  Hearts  ;  our  hearts.  Hem  ! 
Again  a  revolving  year,  ladies,  had  brought  us  to  a  pause  in  our 

H 


98  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

studies — let  us  hope  our  greatly  advanced  studies — and,  like  the- 
mariner  in  Ms  bark,  the  warrior  in  his  tent,  the  captive  in  his 
dungeon,  and  the  traveller  in  his  various  conveyances,  we  yearned 
for  home.  Did  we  say,  on  such  an  occasion,  in  the  opening  words 
of  Mr.  Addison's  impressive  tragedy : 

"  The  dawn  is  overcast,  the  mominof  lowers, 
And  heavily  in  clouds  brings  on  the  day, 
The  great,  th'  important  day ?" 

Not  so.  From  horizon  to  zenith  all  was  couleur  de  rose,  for  all 
was  redolent  of  our  relations  and  friends.  Might  we  find  them 
prospering  as  we  expected  ;  might  they  find  us  prospering  as  thei/ 
expected  !  Ladies,  we  would  now,  with  our  love  to  one  another, 
wish  one  another  good-bj^e,  and  happiness,  until  we  met  again. 
And  when  the  time  should  come  for  our  resumption  of  those  pur- 
suits which  (here  a  general  depression  set  in  all  round),  pursuits 
which,  pursuits  which  ; — then  let  us  ever  remember  what  was  said 
by  the  Spartan  General,  in  words  too  trite  for  repetition,  at  the- 
battle  it  were  superfluous  to  specify. 

The  handmaidens  of  the  establishment,  in  their  best  caps,  then 
handed  the  trays,  and  the  young  ladies  sipped  and  crumbled,  and 
the  bespoken  coaches  began  to  choke  the  street.  Then,  leave-taking 
was  not  long  about,  and  Miss  Twinkleton,  in  saluting  each  young 
lady's  cheek,  confided  to  her  an  exceedingly  neat  letter,  addressed 
to  her  next  friend  at  law,  "  with  Miss  Twinkleton's  best  compli- 
ments "  in  the  corner.  This  missive  she  handed  with  an  air  as  if 
it  had  not  the  least  connexion  with  the  bill,  but  were  something 
in  the  nature  of  a  delicate  and  joyful  surprise. 

So  many  times  had  Eosa  seen  such  dispersals,  and  so  very  little 
did  she  know  of  any  other  Home,  that  she  was  contented  to  remain 
where  she  was,  and  was  even  better  contented  than  ever  before, 
having  her  latest  friend  with  her.  And  yet  her  latest  friendship 
had  a  blank  place  in  it  of  which  she  could  not  fail  to  be  sensible. 
Helena  Landless,  having  been  a  party  to  her  brother's  revelation 
about  Rosa,  and  having  entered  into  that  compact  of  silence  with 
Mr.  Crisparkle,  shrank  from  any  allusion  to  Edwin  Brood's  name^ 
Why  she  so  avoided  it,  was  mysterious  to  Eosa,  but  she  perfectly 
perceived  the  fact.  But  for  the  fact,  she  might  have  relieved  her 
own  little  perplexed  heart  of  some  of  its  doubts  and  hesitations,  by 
taking  Helena  into  her  confidence.  As  it  was,  she  had  no  such 
vent  :  she  could  only  ponder  on  her  own  difficulties,  and  wonder 
more  and  more  why  this  avoidance  of  Edwin's  name  should  last, 
now  that  she  knew — for  so  much  Helena  had  told  her — that  a 
good  understanding  was  to  be  re-established  between  the  two- 
young  men,  when  Edwin  came  down. 

It  would  have  made  a  jDretty  picture,  so  many  pretty  girls 
kissing  Eosa  in  the  cold  porch  of  the  Nuns'  House,  and  that  sunny 
little  creature  peeping  out  of  it  (unconscious  of  sly  faces  carved  on 
spout  and  gable  peeping  at  her),  and  waving  farewells  to  the 
departing  coaches,  as  if  she  represented  the  spirit  of  rosy  youth 
abiding  in  the  place  to  keep  it  bright  and  warm  in  its  desertion. 
The  hoarse  High  Street  became  musical  with  the  cry,  in  various- 


BOTH   AT   THEIR   BEST.  99 

silvery  voices,  "  Good-bye,  Eosebud,  Darling !"  and  the  effigy  of 
Mr.  Sapsea's  father  over  the  opposite  doorway,  seemed  to  say  to 
mankind :  "  Gentlemen,  favor  me  with  your  attention  to  this 
charming  little  last  lot  left  behind,  and  bid  with  a  spirit  worthy 
of  the  occasion  !"  Then  the  staid  street,  so  unwontedly  sparkling, 
youthful,  and  fresh  for  a  few  rippling  moments,  ran  dry,  and 
Cloisterham  was  itself  again. 

If  Eosebud  in  her  bower  now  waited  Edwin  Drood's  coming: 
with  an  uneasy  heart,  Edwin  for  his  part  was  uneasy  too.  With 
far  less  force  of  purpose  in  his  composition  than  the  childish  beauty, 
crowned  by  acclamation  fairy  queen  of  Miss  Twinkleton's  esta- 
blishment, he  had  a  conscience,  and  Mr.  Grewgious  had  pricked  it. 
That  gentleman's  steady  convictions  of  what  was  right  and  what 
was  wrong  in  such  a  case  as  his,  were  neither  to  be  frowned  aside, 
nor  laughed  aside.  They  would  not  be  moved.  But  for  the  dinner 
in  Staple  Inn,  and  but  for  the  ring  he  carried  in  the  breast-pocket 
of  his  coat,  he  would  have  drifted  into  their  Avedding-day  without 
another  pause  for  real  thought,  loosely  trusting  that  all  would  go 
well,  left  alone.  But  that  serious  putting  him  on  his  truth  to  the 
living  and  the  dead  had  brought  him  to  a  check.  He  must  either 
give  the  ring  to  Eosa,  or  he  must  take  it  back.  Once  put  into  this 
narrowed  way  of  action,  it  was  curious  that  he  began  to  consider 
Eosa's  claims  upon  him  more  unselfishly  than  he  had  ever  con- 
sidered them  before,  and  began  to  be  less  sure  of  himself  than  he 
had  ever  been  in  all  his  easy-going  days. 

"  I  will  be  guided  by  what  she  says,  and  by  how  we  get  on,"  was 
his  decision,  walking  from  the  Gate  House  to  the  Kuns'  House. 
"  Whatever  comes  of  it,  I  will  bear  his  words  in  mind,  and  try  to 
be  true  to  the  living  and  the  dead." 

Eosa  was  dressed  for  walking.  She  expected  him.  It  was  a 
bright  frosty  day,  and  Miss  Twinkleton  had  already  graciously 
sanctioned  fresh  air.  Thus  they  got  out  together  before  it  became 
necessary  for  either  Miss  Twinkleton,  or  the  Deputy  High  Priest, 
Mrs.  Tisher,  to  lay  even  so  much  as  one  of  those  iisual  offerings 
on  the  shrine  of  Propriety. 

*'  My  dear  Eddy,"  said  Eosa,  when  they  had  turned  out  of  the 
High  Street,  and  had  got  among  the  quiet  walks  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  the  Cathedral  and  the  river:  "I  want  to  say  something- 
very  serious  to  you.  I  have  been  thinking  about  it  for  a  long, 
long  time." 

"  I  want  to  be  serious  with  you  too,  Eosa  dear.  I  mean  to  be 
serious  and  earnest." 

"  Thank  you,  Eddy.  And  you  will  not  think  me  unkind 
because  I  begin,  will  you  ?  You  will  not  think  I  speak  for  myself 
only,  because  I  speak  first?  That  would  not  be  generous,  would 
it  ?     And  I  know  you  are  generous  !" 

He  said,  "  I  hope  I  am  not  ungenerous  to  you,  Eosa."  He  called 
her  Pussy  no  more.     Never  again. 

"  And  there  is  no  fear,"  pursued  Eosa,  "  of  our  quarrelling,  is 
there  ?  Because,  Eddy,"  clasping  her  hand  on  his  arm,  "  we  have 
so  much  reason  to  be  very  lenient  to  each  other !" 

"  We  will  be,  Eosa." 

H  2 


100  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

"  That's  a  dear  good  boy  !  Eddy,  let  us  be  courageous.  Let  us 
change  to  brother  and  sister  from  this  day  forth." 

"  Never  be  husband  and  wife  ?" 

"  Never !" 

Neither  spoke  again  for  a  little  while.  But  after  that  pause  he 
said,  with  some  effort : 

"  Of  course  I  know  that  this  has  been  in  both  our  minds,  Eosa, 
and  of  course  I  am  in  honor  bound  to  confess  freely  that  it  does  not 
originate  with  you." 

"  No,  nor  with  you,  dear,"  she  returned,  with  pathetic  earnest- 
ness. "  It  has  sprung  up  between  us.  You  are  not  truly  happy 
in  our  engagement ;  I  am  not  truly  happy  in  it.  0,  I  am  so 
s.orry,  so  sorry !"     And  there  she  broke  into  tears. 

"  I  am  deeply  sorry  too,  Eosa.     Deeply  sorry  for  you." 

"  And  I  for  you,  poor  boy  !     And  I  for  you !" 

This  pure  young  feeling,  this  gentle  and  forbearing  feeling  of 
each  towards  the  other,  brought  with  it  its  reward  in  a  softening 
light  that  seemed  to  shine  on  their  position.  The  relations 
between  them  did  not  look  wilful,  or  capricious,  or  a  failure,  in  such 
a  light ;  they  became  elevated  into  something  more  self-denying, 
honorable,  aifectionate,  and  true. 

"  If  we  knew  yesterday,"  said  Eosa,  as  she  dried  her  eyes,  "  and 
we  did  know  yesterday,  and  on  many,  many  yesterdays,  that  wo 
were  far  from  right  together  in  those  relations  which  were  not  of  our 
own  choosing,  what  better  could  we  do  to-day  than  change  them  ? 
It  is  natural  that  we  should  be  sorry,  and  j^ou  see  how  sorry  we 
both  are  ;  but  how  much  better  to  be  sorry  now  than  then  !" 

"When,  Eosa?" 

"  When  it  would  be  too  late.  And  then  we  should  be  angry, 
besides." 

Another  silence  fell  upon  them. 

"  And  you  know,"  said  Eosa,  innocently,  "  you  couldn't  like  me 
then ;  and  you  can  always  like  me  now,  for  I  shall  not  be  a  drag 
upon  you,  or  a  worry  to  you.  And  I  can  always  like  you  now, 
and  your  sister  will  not  tease  or  trifle  with  you.  I  often  did  when 
I  was  not  your  sister,  and  I  beg  your  pardon  for  it." 

"  Don't  let  us  come  to  that,  Eosa ;  or  I  shall  want  more  par- 
doning than  I  like  to  think  of." 

"  No,  indeed,  Eddy  ;  you  are  too  hard,  my  generous  boy,  upon 
yourself.  Let  us  sit  down,  brother,  on  these  ruins,  and  let  me  tell 
you  how  it  was  with  us.  I  think  I  know,  for  I  have  considered 
about  it  very  much  since  you  were  here,  last  time.  You  liked  me, 
didn't  you  ?     You  thought  I  was  a  nice  little  thing  ?" 

"  Everybody  thinks  that,  Eosa." 

"  Do  they  ?"  She  knitted  her  brow  musingly  for  a  moment, 
and  then  flashed  out  with  the  bright  little  induction :  "  Well  ; 
but  say  they  do.  Surely  it  was  not  enough  that  you  should 
think  of  me,  only  as  other  people  did  ;  now,  was  it  ?" 

The  point  was  not  to  be  got  over.     It  was  not  enough. 

"  And  that  is  just  what  I  mean ;  that  is  just  how  it  was  with 
us,"  said  Eosa.  "  You  liked  me  very  well,  and  you  had  grown 
used  to  me,  and  had  grown  used  to  the  idea  of  our  being  married. 


BOTH   AT   THEIR   BEST.  101 

You  accepted  the  situation  as  an  inevitable  kind  of  thing,  didn't 
yon  ?     It  was  to  be,  you  thought,  and  why  discuss  or  dispute  it." 

It  was  new  and  strange  to  him  to  have  himself  presented  to 
himself  so  clearly,  in  a  glass  of  her  holding  up.  He  had  always 
patronized  her,  in  his  superiority  to  her  share  of  woman's  wit. 
Was  that  but  another  instance  of  something  radically  amiss  in  the 
terms  on  which  they  had  been  gliding  towards  a  life-long 
bondage  ? 

"  All  this  that  I  say  of  you,  is  true  of  me  as  well,  Eddy.  Unless 
it  was,  I  might  not  be  bold  enough  to  say  it.  Only,  the  difference 
between  us  was,  that  by  little  and  little  there  crept  into  my  mind 
a  habit  of  thinking  about  it,  instead  of  dismissing  it.  My  life  is 
not  so  busy  as  yours,  you  see,  and  I  have  not  so  many  things  to 
think  of.  So  I  thought  about  it  very  much,  and  I  cried  about  it 
very  much  too  (though  that  was  not  your  fault,  poor  boy) ;  when 
all  at  once  my  guardian  came  down,  to  prepare  for  m^^  leaving 
the  Nuns'  House.  I  tried  to  hint  to  him  that  I  was  not  quite 
settled  in  my  mind,  but  I  hesitated  and  failed,  and  he  didn't 
understand  me.  But  he  is  a  good,  good  man.  And  he  put  before 
me  so  kindly,  and  yet  so  strongly,  how  seriously  we  ought  to 
consider,  in  our  circumstances,  that  I  resolved  to  speak  to  you  the 
next  moment  we  were  alone  and  grave.  And  if  I  seemed  to  come 
to  it  easily  just  now,  because  I  came  to  it  all  at  once,  don't  think 
it  was  so  really,  Eddy,  for  0,  it  was  very,  very  hard,  and  0,  I 
am  very,  very  sorry  !" 

Her  full  heart  broke  into  tears  again.  He  put  his  arm  about 
her  waist,  and  they  walked  by  the  river  side  together. 

"  Your  guardian  has  spoken  to  me  too,  Eosa  dear.  I  saw  him 
before  I  left  London."  His  right  hand  was  in  his  breast,  seeking 
the  ring ;  but  he  checked  it  as  he  thought :  "  If  I  am  to  take  it 
back,  why  should  I  tell  her  of  it  ?" 

"  And  that  made  you  more  serious  about  it,  didn't  it,  Eddy  ? 
And  if  I  had  not  spoken  to  you,  as  I  have,  you  would  have  spoken 
to  me  ?  I  hope  you  can  tell  me  so  ?  I  don't  like  it  to  be  all  my 
doing,  though  it  is  so  much  better  for  us." 

"Yes,  I  should  have  spoken;  I  should  have  put  everything 
before  you ;  I  came  intending  to  do  it.  But  I  never  could  have 
spoken  to  you  as  you  have  spoken  to  me,  Rosa." 

"  Don't  say  jom  mean  so  coldl}'  or  unkindly,  Eddy,  please,  if  you 
can  help  it." 

"  I  mean  so  sensibly  and  delicately,  so  wisely  and  affec- 
tionately." 

"  That's  my  dear  brother !"  She  kissed  his  hand  in  a  little 
rapture.  "  The  dear  girls  will  be  dreadfully  disappointed,"  added 
Eosa,  laughing,  with  the  dew-drops  glistening  in  her  bright  eyes. 
"  They  have  looked  forward  to  it  so,  poor  pets !" 

"  Ah !  But  I  fear  it  will  be  a  worse  disappointment  to  Jack," 
said  Edwin  Drood,  with  a  start.     "  I  never  thought  of  Jack !" 

Her  swift  and  intent  look  at  him  as  he  said  the  words,  could  no 
more  be  recalled  than  a  flash  of  lightning  can.  But  it  appeared 
as  though  she  would  have  instantly  recalled  it,  if  she  could ;  for 
she  looked  down,  confused,  and  breathed  quickl}-. 


102  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 


9" 


"  You  don't  doubt  it's  being  a  blow  to  Jack,  Rosa 

She  merely  replied,  and  that,  evasively  and  hurriedly:  Why 
should  she  ?  She  had  not  thought  about  it.  He  seemed,  to  her,  to 
have  so  little  to  do  with  it. 

"  My  dear  child  !  Can  you  suppose  that  any  one  so  wrapped  up 
in  another — Mrs.  Tope's  expression :  not  mine — as  Jack  is  in  me, 
could  fail  to  be  struck  all  of  a  heap  by  such  a  sudden  and  complete 
change  in  my  life  ?  I  say  sudden,  because  it  will  be  sudden  to 
him,  you  know." 

She  nodded  twice  or  thrice,  and  her  lips  parted  as  if  she  would 
have  assented.  But  she  uttered  no  sound,  and  her  breathing  was 
no  slower. 

"  How  shall  I  tell  Jack  !"  said  Edwin,  ruminating.  If  he  had 
been  less  occupied  with  the  thought,  he  must  have  seen  her 
singular  emotion.  "  I  never  thought  of  Jack.  It  must  be  broken 
to  him,  before  the  town  crier  knows  it.  I  dine  with  the  dear 
fellow  to-morrow  and  next  day — Christmas  Eve  and  Christmas 
Day — but  it  would  never  do  to  spoil  his  feast  days.  He  always 
worries  about  me,  and  moddley-coddleys  in  the  merest  trifles.  The 
news  is  sure  to  overset  him.  How  on  earth  shall  this  be  broken  to 
Jack !" 

"  He  must  be  told,  I  suppose  ?"  said  Rosa. 

"  My  dear  Rosa !  Who  ought  to  be  in  our  confidence,  if  not 
Jack  ?" 

"  My  guardian  promised  to  come  down,  if  I  should  write  and 
ask  him.  I  am  going  to  do  so.  Would  you  like  to  leave  it  to 
him  ?" 

"  A  bright  idea !"  cried  Edwin,  "  The  other  trustee.  Nothing- 
more  natural.  He  comes  down,  he  goes  to  Jack,  he  relates  what 
we  have  agreed  upon,  and  he  states  our  case  better  than  we  could. 
He  has  already  spoken  feelingly  to  you,  he  has  already  sjDoken 
feelingly  to  me,  and  he'll  put  the  whole  thing  feelingly  to  Jack. 
That's  it !  I  am  not  a  coward,  Rosa,  but  to  tell  you  a  secret,  I  am 
a  little  afraid  of  Jack." 

"  No,  no !  You  are  not  afraid  of  him  ?"  cried  Rosa,  turning 
white  and  clasping  her  hands. 

"Why,  sister  Rosa,  sister  Rosa,  what  do  you  see  from  the 
turret  ?"  said  Edwin,  rallying  her.     "  My  dear  girl !" 

"  Yoii  frightened  me." 

"  Most  unintentionally,  but  I  am  as  sorry  as  if  I  had  meant  to 
do  it.  Could  you  possibly  suppose  for  a  moment,  from  any  loose 
way  of  speaking  of  mine,  that  I  was  literally  afraid  of  the  dear 
fond  fellow  ?  What  I  mean  is,  that  he  is  subject  to  a  kind  of 
paroxysm,  or  fit — I  saw  him  in  it  once — and  I  don't  know  but 
that  so  great  a  surprise,  coming  upon  him  direct  from  me  wdiom  he 
is  so  wrapped  up  in,  might  bring  it  on  perhaps.  Wliich — and  this 
is  the  secret  I  was  going  to  tell  jou — is  another  reason  for  your 
guardian's  making  the  communication.  He  is  so  steady,  precise, 
and  exact,  that  he  will  talk  Jack's  thoughts  into  shape,  in  no 
time  :  whereas  with  me  Jack  is  alwaj^s  impulsive  and  hurried, 
and,  I  may  say,  almost  womanish." 

Rosa  seemed  convinced.     Perhaps  from  her  own  very  different 


BOTH    AT    THEIR   BEST.  103 

poiut  of  view  of  "  Jack,"  she  felt  comforted  and  protected  by  the 
interposition  of  Mr.  Grewgions  between  herself  and  him. 

And  now,  Edwin  Drood's  right  hand  closed  again  upon  the  ring 
in  its  little  case,  and  again  was  checked  by  the  consideration :  "  It 
is  certain,  now,  that  I  am  to  give  it  back  to  him  ;  then  why  should 
[  tell  her  of  it  ?"  That  pretty  sympathetic  nature  which  could  be 
so  sorry  for  him  in  the  blight  of  their  childish  hopes  of  happiness 
together,  and  could  so  quietly  find  itself  alone  in  a  new  world  to 
weave  fresh  wreaths  of  such  flowers  as  it  might  prove  to  bear,  the 
old  world's  flowers  being  withered,  would  be  grieved  by  those 
sorrowful  jewels ;  and  to  what  purpose?  Why  should  it  be? 
They  were  but  a  sign  of  broken  joys  and  baseless  projects;  in 
their  very  beauty,  they  were  (as  the  unlikeliest  of  men  had  said), 
-almost  a  cruel  satire  on  the  loves,  hopes,  plans,  of  humanity,  whicn 
are  able  to  forecast  nothing,  and  are  so  much  brittle  dust.  Let 
them  be.  He  would  restore  them  to  her  guardian  when  he  came 
■down ;  he  in  his  turn  would  restore  them  to  the  cabinet  from 
which  he  had  unwillingly  taken  them  ;  and  there,  like  old  letters 
or  old  vows,  or  other  records  of  old  aspirations  come  to  nothing, 
they  would  be  disregarded,  until,  being  valuable,  they  were  sold 
into  circulation  again,  to  repeat  their  former  round. 

Let  them  be.  Let  them  lie  unspoken  of,  in  his  breast.  However 
■distinctly  or  indistinctly  he  entertained  these  thoughts,  he  arrived 
at  the  conclusion,  Let  them  be.  Among  the  mighty  store  of 
wonderful  chains  that  are  for  ever  forging,  day  and  night,  in  the 
vast  iron-works  of  time  and  circumstance,  there  was  one  chain 
forged  in  the  moment  of  that  small  conclusion,  riveted  to  the 
foundations  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  gifted  with  invincible  force 
to  hold  and  drag. 

They  walked  on  by  the  river.  They  began  to  speak  of  their 
separate  plans.  He  w^ould  quicken  his  departure  from  England, 
and  she  would  remain  where  she  was,  at  least  as  long  as  Helena 
remained.  The  poor  dear  girls  should  have  their  disappoint- 
ment broken  to  them  gently,  and,  as  the  first  preliminary.  Miss 
Tw^inkleton  should  be  confided  in  by  Eosa,  even  in  advance  of  the 
reappearance  of  Mr.  Grewgious.  It  should  be  made  clear  in  all 
quarters  that  she  and  Edwin  were  the  best  of  friends.  There  had 
never  been  so  serene  an  understanding  between  them  since  they 
were  first  affianced.  And  yet  there  was  one  reservation  on  each 
side ;  on  hers,  that  she  intended  through  her  guardian  to 
withdraw  herself  immediately  from  the  tuition  of  her  music- 
master  ;  on  his,  that  he  did  already  entertain  some  wandering 
speculations  whether  it  might  ever  come  to  pass  that  he  would 
know  more  of  Miss  Landless. 

The  bright  frosty  day  declined  as  they  walked  and  si3oke 
together.  The  sun  dipped  in  the  river  far  behind  them,  and  the 
old  city  lay  red  before  them,  as  their  walk  drew  to  a  close.  The 
moaning  water  cast  its  seaweed  duskily  at  their  feet,  when  they 
turned  to  leave  its  margin  ;  and  the  rooks  hovered  above  them 
with  hoarse  cries,  darker  splashes  in  the  darkening  air. 

"  I  will  prepare  Jack  for  my  flitting  soon,"  said  Edwin,  in  a 
low  voice,  "  and  I  will  but  see  your  guardian  when  he  comes,  and 


104  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

then  go  before   they   speak   together.       It  will   be   better   done- 
without  my  being  by.     Don't  you  think  so  ?" 

"  Yes." 

"  We  know  we  have  done  right,  Eosa  ?" 

"Yes." 

"  We  know  we  are  better  so,  even  now  ?" 

"  And  shall  be  far,  far,  better  so,  by-and-bye." 

Still,  there  was  that  lingering  tenderness  in  their  hearts  towards- 
the  old  positions  they  were  relinquishing,  that  they  prolonged 
their  parting.  When  they  came  among  the  elm  trees  by  the 
cathedral,  where  they  had  last  sat  together,  they  stopped,  as  by 
consent,  and  Eosa  raised  her  face  to  his,  as  she  had  never  raised  it 
in  the  old  days ; — for  they  were  old  already. 

"'  God  bless  you,  dear  !     Good-bj^e  !" 

"  God  bless  you,  dear !     Good-bye !" 

They  kissed  each  other,  fervently. 

"  Now,  please  take  me  home,  Eddy,  and  let  me  be  by  myself." 

"  Don't  look  round,  Eosa,"  he  cautioned  her,  as  he  drew  her  arm. 
through  his,  and  led  her  away.     "  Didn't  you  see  Jack  ?" 

"No!     Where?" 

"  Under  the  trees.  He  saw  us,  as  we  took  leave  of  each  other.. 
Poor  fellow  !  he  little  thinks  we  have  parted.  This  will  be  a  blow 
to  him,  I  am  much  afraid  !" 

She  hurried  on,  without  resting,  and  hurried  on  until  they  had 
passed  under  the  Gate  House  into  the  street ;  once  there,  she  asked : 

"  Has  he  followed  us  ?  You  can  look  without  seeming  to.  Is 
he  behind?" 

"  No.  Yes !  he  is !  He  has  just  passed  out  under  the  gateway. 
The  dear  sympathetic  old  fellow  likes  to  keep  us  in  sight.  I  am 
afraid  he  will  be  bitterly  disappointed  !" 

She   pulled    hurriedly  at   the  handle   of   the  hoarse    old   bell, 
and  the  gate  soon  opened.     Before  going  in,  she  gave  him  one 
last  wide  wondering  look,  as  if  she  would  have  asked  him  with 
imploring  emphasis  :    "  0 !  don't  you  understand  ?"     And  out  of" 
that  look  he  vanished  from  her  view. 


CHAPTEE  XIV. 

WHEN   SHALL   THESE    THREE   MEET   AGAIN  ? 

Christmas  Eve  in  Cloisterham.  A  few  strange  faces  in  the 
streets;  a  few  other  faces,  half  strange  and  half  familiar,  once 
the  faces  of  Cloisterham  children,  now  the  faces  of  men  and 
women  who  come  back  from  the  outer  world  at  long  intervals  to 
find  the  city  wonderfully  shrunken  in  size,  as  if  it  had  not  washed 
by  any  means  well  in  the  meanwhile.  To  these,  the  striking  of 
the  cathedral  clock,  and  the  cawing  of  the  rooks  from  the  cathedral 
tower,  are  like  voices  of  their  nursery  time.  To  such  as  these,  it 
has    happened   in   their   dying   hours   afar   off,   that   they   have 


WHEN   SHALL   THESE    THREE   MEET   AGiVIN  ?  105 

imagined  tlieir  cliamber  floor  to  be  strewn  with  ti\e  autumnal 
leaves  fallen  from  the  elm  trees  in  the  Close  :  so  have  the  rustling 
sounds  and  fresh  scents  of  their  earliest  impressions,  revived, 
when  the  circle  of  their  lives  was  very  nearly  traced,  and  the 
beginning  and  the  end  were  drawing  close  together. 

Seasonable  tokens  are  about.  Eed  berries  shine  here  and  there 
in  the  lattices  of  Minor  Canon  Corner;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Tope  are 
daintily  sticking  sprigs  of  holly  into  the  carvings  and  sconces  of 
the  cathedral  stalls,  as  if  they  were  sticking  them  into  the  coat- 
buttonholes  of  the  Dean  and  Chapter.  Lavish  profusion  is  in  the 
shops :  particularly  in  the  articles  of  currants,  raisins,  spices, 
candied  peel,  and  moist  sugar.  An  ^^nusual  air  of  gallantry  and 
dissipation  is  abroad ;  evinced  in  an  immense  bunch  of  mistletoe 
hanging  in  the  greengrocer's  shop  doorway,  and  a  poor  little 
Twelfth  Cake,  culminating  in  the  figure  of  a  Harlequin — such  a 
very  poor  little  Twelfth  Cake,  that  one  would  rather  call  it  a 
Twenty  Fourth  Cake,  or  a  Forty  Eighth  Cake — to  be  raffled  for  at 
the  pastrycook's,  terms  one  shilling  per  member.  Public  amuse- 
ments are  not  wanting.  The  "Wax-Work  which  made  so  deep  an 
impression  on  the  reflective  mind  of  the  Emperor  of  China  is  to  be 
seen  by  particular  desire  during  Christmas  Week  only,  on  the  pre- 
mises of  the  bankrupt  livery-stable  keeper  up  the  lane ;  and  a  new 
grand  comic  Christmas  pantomime  is  to  be  produced  at  the  Theatre  : 
the  latter  heralded  by  the  portrait  of  Signer  Jacksonini  the  clown, 
saying  "  How  do  you  do  to-morrow  ?"  quite  as  large  as  life,  and 
almost  as  miserably.  In  short,  Cloisterham  is  up  and  doing : 
though  from  this  description  the  High  School  and  Miss  Twinkle- 
ton's  are  to  be  excluded.  From  the  former  establishment,  the 
scholars  have  gone  home,  every  one  of  them  in  love  with  one  of 
Miss  Twinkleton's  young  ladies  (who  knows  nothing  about  it)  ; 
and  only  the  handmaidens  flutter  occasionally  in  the  windows  of 
the  latter.  It  is  noticed,  by-the-bye,  that  these  damsels  become, 
within  the  limits  of  decorum,  more  skittish  when  thus  entrusted 
with  the  concrete  representation  of  their  sex,  than  when  dividing 
the  representation  with  Miss  Twinkleton's  young  ladies. 

Three  are  to  meet  at  the  Gate  House  to-night.  How  does  each 
one  of  the  three  get  through  the  day  ? 

Neville  Landless,  though  absolved  from  his  books  for  the  time 
by  Mr.  Crisparkle — whose  fresh  nature  is  by  no  means  insensible 
to  the  charms  of  a  holiday — reads  and  writes  in  his  quiet  room, 
with  a  concentrated  air,  until  it  is  two  hours  past  noon.  He  then 
sets  himself  to  clearing  his  table,  to  arranging  his  books,  and  to 
tearing  up  and  burning  his  stray  papers.  He  makes  a  clean  sweep 
of  all  untidy  accumulations,  puts  all  his  drawers  in  order,  and 
leaves  no  note  or  scrap  of  paper  undestroyed,  save  such  memoranda 
as  bear  directly  on  his  studies.  This  done,  he  turns  to  his  ward- 
robe, selects  a  few  articles  of  ordinary  wear — among  them,  change  of 
stout  shoes  and  socks  for  walking — and  packs  these  in  a  knapsack. 
This  knapsack  is  new,  and  he  bought  it  in  the  High  Street  yester- 
day. He  also  purchased,  at  the  same  time  and  at  the  same  place, 
a  heavy  walking  stick :  strong  in  the  handle  for  the  grip  of  the 


106  THE   MYSTERY   OF  EDWIN   DROOD. 

hand,  and  iron-shod.  He  tries  this,  swings  it,  poises  it,  and  lays 
it  by,  with  the  knapsack,  on  a  window-seat.  By  this  time  his 
arrangements  are  complete. 

He  dresses  for  going  out,  and  is  in  the  act  of  going — indeed  has 
left  his  room,  and  has  met  the  Minor  Canon  on  the  staircase, 
coming  out  of  his  bedroom  upon  the  same  story — when  he  turns 
back  again  for  his  walking-stick,  thinking  he  will  carry  it  now. 
Mr.  Crisparkle,  who  has  paused  on  the  staircase,  sees  it  in  his 
hand  on  his  immediately  reappearing,  takes  it  from  him,  and  asks 
him  with  a  smile  how  he  chooses  a  stick  ? 

"Eeally  I  don't  know  that  I  understand  the  subject,"  he  an- 
swers.    "  I  chose  it  for  its  weight." 

"Much  too  heavy,  Neville;   much  too  heavy." 

"  To  rest  upon  in  a  long  walk,  sir?" 

"Rest  upon?"  repeats  Mr.  Crisparkle,  throwing  himself  into 
pedestrian  form.  "  You  don't  rest  upon  it ;  you  merely  balance 
with  it." 

"  I  shall  know  better,  with  practice,  sir.  I  have  not  lived  in  a 
walking  country,  you  know." 

"  True,"  says  Mr.  Crisparkle.  "  Get  into  a  little  training,  and 
we  will  have  a  few  score  miles  together.  I  should  leave  you 
nowhere  now.     Do  you  come  back  before  dinner  ?" 

"  I  think  not,  as  we  dine  early." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  gives  him  a  bright  nod  and  a  cheerful  good-bye : 
expressing  (not  without  intention),  absolute  confidence  and  ease. 

Neville  repairs  to  the  Nuns'  House,  and  requests  that  Miss 
Landless  may  be  informed  that  her  brother  is  there,  by  appoint- 
ment. He  waits  at  the  gate,  not  even  crossing  the  threshold  ;  for 
he  is  on  his  parole  not  to  put  himself  in  Eosa's  way. 

His  sister  is  at  least  as  mindful  of  the  obligation  they  have 
taken  on  themselves,  as  he  can  be,  and  loses  not  a  moment  in 
joining  him.  They  meet  affectionately,  avoid  lingering  there,  and 
walk  towards  the  upper  inland  country. 

"  I  am  not  going  to  tread  upon  forbidden  ground,  Helena,"  says 
Neville,  when  they  have  walked  some  distance  and  are  turning ; 
*'  you  will  understand  in  another  moment  that  I  cannot  help 
referring  to — what  shall  I  saj^ — my  infatuation." 

"  Had  3^ou  not  better  avoid  it,  Neville  ?  You  know  that  I  can 
hear  nothing." 

"  You  can  hear,  my  dear,  what  Mr.  Crisparkle  has  heard,  and 
hoard  with  approval." 

"  Yes ;  I  can  hear  so  much." 

"  Well,  it  is  this.  I  am  not  only  unsettled  and  unhappy  myself, 
but  I  am  conscious  of  unsettling  and  interfering  with  other 
people.  How  do  I  know  that,  but  for  my  unfortunate  presence, 
you,  and — and — the  rest  of  that  former  part}',  our  engaging 
guardian  excepted,  might  be  dining  cheerfully  in  Minor  Canon 
Corner  to-morrow  ?  Indeed  it  probably  would  be  so.  I  can  see 
too  well  that  I  am  not  high  in  the  old  lady's  opinion,  and  it  is 
easy  to  understand  what  an  irksome  clog  I  must  be  upon  the 
hospitalities  of  her  orderly  house — especially  at  this  time  of  year 
— when  I  must  be  kept  asunder  from  this  person,  and  there  is 


WHEN    SHALL   THESE   THREE    MEET   AGAIN?  107 

such,  a  reason  for  my  not  loeing  brouglit  into  contact  with  that 
person,  and  an  unfavorable  reputation  has  preceded  me  with  such 
■another  person,  and  so  on.  I  have  put  this  very  gently  to 
Mr.  Orisparkle,  for  you  know  his  self-denying  ways ;  but  still  I 
have  put  it.  What  I  have  laid  much  greater  stress  upon  at  tho 
same  time,  is,  that  I  am  engaged  in  a  miserable  struggle  with 
myself,  and  that  a  little  change  and  absence  may  enable  me  to 
■come  through  it  the  better.  So,  the  weather  being  bright  and 
hard,  I  am  going  on  a  walking  expedition,  and  intend  taking 
myself  out  of  everybody's  way  (my  own  included,  I  hope),  to- 
morrow morning." 

"  When  to  come  back  ?" 

"  In  a  fortnight." 

*'  And  going  quite  alone  ?" 

"I  am  much  better  without  company,  even  if  there  were  any 
one  but  you  to  bear  me  company,  my  dear  Helena." 

"  Mr.  Crisparkle  entirely  agrees,  you  say  ?" 

"  Entirely.  I  am  not  sure  but  that  at  first  he  was  inclined  to 
think  it  rather  a  moody  scheme,  and  one  that  might  do  a  brooding 
mind  harm.  But  we  took  a  moonlight  walk,  last  Monday  night,  to 
talk  it  over  at  leisure,  and  I  represented  the  case  to  him  as  it  really 
is.  I  showed  him  that  I  do  want  to  conquer  myself,  and  that,  this 
evening  well  got  over,  it  is  surely  better  that  I  should  be  away 
from  here  just  now,  than  here.  I  could  hardly  help  meeting 
certain  people  walking  together  here,  and  that  could  do  no  good, 
and  is  certainly  not  the  way  to  forget,  A  fortnight  hence,  that 
chance  will  probably  be  over,  for  the  time;  and  when  it  again 
arises  for  the  last  time,  why,  I  can  again  go  awa3\  Further,  I 
really  do  feel  hopeful  of  bracing  exercise  and  wholesome  fatigue. 
You  know  that  Mr.  Crisparkle  allows  such  things  their  full  weight 
in  the  preservation  of  his  own  sound  mind  in  his  own  sound  body, 
and  that  his  just  spirit  is  not  likely  to  maintain  one  set  of  natural 
laws  for  himself  and  another  for  me.  He  yielded  to  my  view  of 
the  matter,  when  convinced  that  I  was  honestly  in  earnest,  and  so, 
with  his  full  consent,  I  start  to-morrow  morning.  Early  enough 
to  be  not  only  out  of  the  streets,  but  out  of  hearing  of  the  bells, 
when  the  good  people  go  to  church." 

Helena  thinks  it  over,  and  thinks  well  of  it.  Mr.  Crisparkle 
doing  so,  she  would  do  so  ;  but  she  does  originally,  out  of  her 
own  mind,  think  well  of  it,  as  a  healthy  project,  denoting  a  sincere 
endeavour,  and  an  active  attempt  at  self-correction.  She  is  in- 
clined to  pity  him,  poor  fellow,  for  going  away  solitary  on  the 
great  Christmas  festival ;  but  she  feels  it  much  more  to  the 
purpose  to  encourage  him.     And  she  does  encourage  him. 

He  will  write  to  her  ? 

He  will  write  to  her  every  alternate  day,  and  tell  her  all  his 
adventures. 

Does  he  send  clothes  on,  in  advance  of  him  ? 

"  My  dear  Helena,  no.  Travel  like  a  pilgrim,  with  wallet  and 
fitaif.  My  wallet — or  my  knapsack — is  packed,  and  ready  for 
strapping  on ;  and  here  is  my  staff !" 

He  hands   it   to    her ;    she    makes    the    same    remark   as    Mr. 


108  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

Crisparkle,  that  it  is  very  heavy ;  and  gives  it  back  to  him, 
asking  what  wood  it  is  ?     Iron-wood. 

Up  to  this  point,  he  has  been  extremely  cheerful.  Perhaps,  the 
having  to  carry  his  case  with  her,  and  therefore  to  present  it  in 
its  brightest  aspect,  has  roused  his  spirits.  Perhaps,  the  having 
done  so  with  success,  is  followed  by  a  revulsion.  As  the  day  closes 
in,  and  the  city  lights  begin  to  spring  up  before  them,  he  grows 
depressed. 

"  I  wish  I  were  not  going  to  this  dinner,  Helena." 

"  Dear  Neville,  is  it  worth  while  to  care  much  about  it  ?  Think 
how  soon  it  will  be  over." 

"  How  soon  it  will  be  over,"  he  repeats,  gloomily.  "  Yes.  But 
I  don't  like  it." 

There  may  be  a  moment's  awkwardness,  she  cheeringly 
represents  to  him,  but  it  can  only  last  a  moment.  He  is  quite 
sure  of  himself. 

"  I  wish  I  felt  as  sure  of  everything  else,  as  I  feel  of  myself,"  he 
answers  her. 

"  How  strangel}'"  you  speak,  dear !     What  do  you  mean  ?" 

"Helena,  I  don't  know.  I  only  know  that  I  don't  like  it. 
What  a  strange  dead  weight  there  is  in  the  air !" 

She  calls  his  attention  to  those  copperous  clouds  bej^ond  the 
river,  and  says  that  the  wind  is  rising.  He  scarcely  speaks  again, 
until  he  takes  leave  of  her,  at  the  gate  of  the  Nuns'  House.  She 
does  not  immediately  enter,  when  they  have  parted,  but  remains 
looking  after  him  along  the  street.  Twice,  he  j^asses  the  Gate 
House,  reluctant  to  enter.  At  length,  the  cathedral  clock  chiming 
one  quarter,  with  a  rapid  turn  he  hurries  in. 

And  so  he  goes  up  the  postern  stair. 

Edwin  Drood  passes  a  solitary  day.  Something  of  deeper 
moment  than  he  had  thought,  has  gone  out  of  his  life  ;  and  in  the 
silence  of  his  own  chamber  he  wept  for  it  last  night.  Though  the 
image  of  Miss  Landless  still  hovers  in  the  background  of  his  mind, 
the  pretty  little  affectionate  creature,  so  much  firmer  and  wiser 
than  he  had  supposed,  occupies  its  stronghold.  It  is  with  some 
misgiving  of  his  own  un worthiness  that  he  thinks  of  her,  and  of 
what  they  might  have  been  to  one  another,  if  he  had  been  more 
in  earnest  some  time  ago ;  if  he  had  set  a  higher  value  on  her ;  if, 
instead  of  accepting  his  lot  in  life  as  an  inheritance  of  course, 
he  had  studied  the  right  way  to  its  appreciation  and  enhancement. 
And  still,  for  all  this,  and  though  there  is  a  sharp  heartache  in  all 
this,  the  vanity  and  caprice  of  youth  sustain  that  handsome  figure 
of  Miss  Landless  in  the  background  of  his  mind. 

That  was  a  curious  look  of  Rosa's  when  they  parted  at  the  gate. 
Did  it  mean  that  she  saw  below  the  surface  of  his  thoughts,  and 
down  into  their  twilight  depths  ?  Scarcely  that,  for  it  was  a  look 
of  astonished  and  keen  inquiry.  He  decides  that  he  cannot  under- 
stand it,  though  it  was  remarkably  expressive. 

As  he  only  waits  for  Mr.  Grewgious  now,  and  will  depart 
immediately  after  having  seen  him,  he  takes  a  sauntering  leave  of 
the  ancient  city  and  its  neighbourhood.    He  recalls  the  time  when 


TVHEN    SHALL    THESE    THREE    MEET    AGAIN  ?  109 

J?osa  and  lie  walked  here  or  there,  mere  children,  full  of  the 
dignity  of  being  engaged.  Poor  children !  he  thinks,  with  a 
pitying  sadness. 

Finding  that  his  watch  has  stopped,  he  turns  into  the  jeweller's 
shop,  to  have  it  wound  and  set.  The  jeweller  is  knowing  on  the 
subject  of  a  bracelet,  which  he  begs  leave  to  submit,  in  a  general 
and  quite  aimless  way.  It  would  suit  (he  considers)  a  young- 
bride,  to  perfection ;  especially  if  of  a  rather  diminutive  style  of 
beauty.  Finding  the  bracelet  but  coldly  looked  at,  the  jeweller 
invites  attention  to  a  tray  of  rings  for  gentlemen ;  here  is  a  style 
•of  ring,  now,  he  remarks — a  very  chaste  signet — which  gentlemen 
are  much  given  to  purchasing,  when  changing  their  condition.  A 
ring  of  a  very  responsible  appearance.  With  the  date  of  their 
wedding-day  engraved  inside,  several  gentlemen  have  preferred  it 
to  any  other  kind  of  memento. 

The  rings  are  as  coldly  viewed  as  the  bracelet.  Edwin  tells  the 
tempter  that  he  wears  no  jew^ellery  but  his  watch  and  chain, 
which  were  his  father's ;  and  his  shirt-pin. 

"  That  I  was  aware  of,"  is  the  jeweller's  reply,  "  for  Mr.  Jasper 
dropped  in  for  a  watch-glass  the  other  day,  and,  in  fact,  I  showed 
these  articles  to  him,  remarking  that  if  he  should  wish  to  make  a 
present  to  a  gentleman  relative,  on  any  particular  occasion —  But 
he  said  with  a  smile  that  he  had  an  inventory  in  his  mind  of  all 
the  jewellery  his  gentleman  relative  ever  wore  ;  namely,  his  watch 
and  chain,  and  his  shirt-pin.  Still  (the  jeweller  considers)  that 
might  not  apply  to  all  times,  though  applying  to  the  present 
time.  "  Twenty  minutes  past  two,  Mr.  Drood,  I  set  your  watch 
at.     Let  me  recommend  jou  not  to  let  it  run  down,  sir." 

Edwin  takes  his  watch,  puts  it  on,  and  goes  out,  thinking : 
"  Dear  old  Jack  !  If  I  were  to  make  an  extra  crease  in  my  neck- 
cloth, he  would  think  it  worth  noticing !" 

He  strolls  about  and  about,  to  pass  the  time  until  the  dinner 
hour.  It  somehow  happens  that  Cloisterham  seems  reproachful  to 
him  to-day ;  has  fault  to  find  with  him,  as  if  he  had  not  used  it 
well ;  but  is  far  more  pensive  with  him  than  angry.  His  wonted 
carelessness  is  replaced  by  a  wistful  looking  at,  and  dwelling  upon, 
all  the  old  landmarks.  He  will  soon  be  far  away,  and  may  never 
see  them  again,  he  thinks.     Poor  youth  !     Poor  j'outh ! 

As  dusk  draws  on,  he  paces  the  Monks'  Vineyard.  He  has 
walked  to  and  fro,  full  half  an  hour  by  the  cathedral  chimes,  and 
it  has  closed  in  dark,  before  he  becomes  quite  aware  of  a  woman 
crouching  on  the  ground  near  a  wicket  gate  in  a  corner.  The  gate 
commands  a  cross  bj^e-path,  little  used  in  the  gloaming ;  and  the 
figure  must  have  been  there  all  the  time,  though  he  has  but 
gradually  and  lately  made  it  out. 

He  strikes  into  that  path,  and  walks  up  to  the  wicket.  By  the 
light  of  a  lamp  near  it,  he  sees  that  the  woman  is  of  a  haggard 
appearance,  and  that  her  weazen  chin  is  resting  on  her  hands,  and 
that  her  eyes  are  staring — with  an  unwinking,  blind  sort  of  sted- 
fastness — before  her. 

Always  kindly,  but  moved  to  be  unusually  kind  this  evening, 
and  having  bestowed  kind  words  on  most  of  the  children  and  aged 


110  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

people  lie  has  met,  he  at  once  bends  down,  and  speaks  to  this- 
woman. 

"  Are  you  ill  ?" 

"  No,  deary,"  she  answers,  without  looking  at  him,  and  with  no- 
departure  from  her  strange  blind  stare. 

"  Are  you  blind  ?" 

"  No,  deary." 

"  Are  you  lost,  homeless,  faint  ?  What  is  the  matter,  that  you 
stay  here  in  the  cold  so  long,  without  moving  ?" 

By  slow  and  stiff  efforts,  she  appears  to  contract  her  vision  until 
it  can  rest  upon  him ;  and  then  a  curious  film  passes  over  her,  and 
she  begins  to  shake. 

He  straitens  himself,  recoils  a  step,  and  looks  down  at  her  in  a 
dread  amazement ;  for  he  seems  to  know  her. 

"  Good  Heaven !"  he  thinks,  next  moment.  "  Like  Jack  that 
night !" 

As  he  looks  down  at  her,  she  looks  up  at  him,  and  whimpers  : 
"  My  lungs  is  weakly  ;  my  lungs  is  dreffle  bad.  Poor  me,  poor 
me,  my  cough  is  rattling  dry !"  And  coughs  in  confirmation^ 
horribly. 

"  Where  do  you  come  from  ?" 

"  Come  from  London,  deary."    (Her  cough  still  rending  her.) 

"  Where  are  you  going  to  ?" 

*'  Back  to  London,  deary.  I  came  here,  looking  for  a  needle  in 
a  haystack,  and  I  ain't  found  it.  Look'ee,  deary  ;  give  me  three 
and  sixpence,  and  don't  you  be  afeard  for  me.  I'll  get  back  to 
London  then,  and  trouble  no  one.  I'm  in  a  business. — Ah,  me ! 
It's  slack,  it's  slack,  and  times  is  very  bad ! — but  I  can  make  a 
shift  to  live  by  it." 

" Do  you  eat  opium?" 

"  Smokes  it,"  she  replies  with  difficulty,  still  racked  by  her 
cough.  "  Give  me  three  and  sixpence,  and  I'll  lay  it  out  well,  and 
get  back.  If  you  don't  give  me  three  and  sixpence,  don't  give  m© 
a  brass  farden.  And  if  you  do  give  me  three  and  sixpence,  deary, 
I'll  tell  you  something." 

He  counts  the  money  from  his  pocket,  and  puts  it  in  her  hand. 
She  instantly  clutches  it  tight,  and  rises  to  her  feet  with  a  croaking 
laugh  of  satisfaction. 

"  Bless  ye  !   Harkee,  dear  genl'mn.  What's  your  Chris'en  name  ?" 

"  Edwin." 

"  Edwin,  Edwin,  Edwin,"  she  repeats,  trailing  off  into  a  drowsy 
repetition  of  the  word;  and  then  asks  suddenly  :  "Is  the  short  of 
that  name,  Eddy  ?" 

"  It  is  sometimes  called  so,"  he  replies,  with  the  color  starting  to 
his  face. 

"  Don't  sweethearts  call  it  so  ?"  she  asks,  pondering. 

"  How  should  I  know  !" 

*'  Haven't  you  a  sweetheart,  upon  your  soul  ?" 

*'  None." 

She  is  moving  away  with,  another  "  Bless  ye,  and  thank'ee, 
deary  !"  when  he  adds :  "  You  were  to  tell  me  something ;  you 
may  as  well  do  so." 


WHEN   SHALL   THESE   THREE   MEET   AGAIN?  Ill 

"  So  I  was,  SO  I  was.  Well,  then.  Whisper.  Yoii  be  thankful 
that  yonr  name  ain't  Ned." 

He  looks  at  her,  quite  steadily,  as  he  asks  :  "  Why  ?'* 

"Because  it's  a  bad  name  to  have  just  now." 

"  How  a  bad  name  ?" 

"  A  threatened  name.     A  dangerous  name." 

*'  The  proverb  says  that  threatened  men  live  long,"  he  tells  her, 
lightly. 

"  Then  Ked — so  threatened  is  he,  wherever  he  may  be  while  I 
am  a  talking  to  you,  deary — should  live  to  all  eternity !"  replies 
the  woman. 

She  has  leaned  forward,  to  say  it  in  his  ear,  with  her  forefinger 
shaking  before  his  eyes,  and  now  huddles  herself  together,  and 
with  another  "  Bless  ye,  and  thank'ee !"  goes  away  in  the  direction 
of  the  Travellers'  Lodging  House. 

This  is  not  an  inspiriting  close  to  a  dull  day.  Alone,  in  a 
sequestered  place,  surrounded  by  vestiges  of  old  time  and  decay, 
it  rather  has  a  tendency  to  call  a  shudder  into  being.  He  makes 
for  the  better  lighted  streets,  and  resolves  as  he  walks  on  to 
say  nothing  of  this  to-night,  but  to  mention  it  to  Jack  (who 
alone  calls  him  Ked),  as  an  odd  coincidence,  to-morrow ;  of  course 
only  as  a  coincidence,  and  not  as  anything  better  worth  re- 
membering. 

Still,  it  holds  to  him,  as  many  things  much  better  worth  remem- 
bering never  did.  He  has  another  mile  or  so,  to  linger  out 
before  the  dinner-hour ;  and,  when  he  walks  over  the  bridge  and 
by  the  river,  the  woman's  words  are  in  the  rising  wind,  in  the 
angry  sky,  in  the  troubled  water,  in  the  flickering  lights.  There 
is  some  solemn  echo  of  them,  even  in  the  cathedral  chime,  which 
strikes  a  sudden  surprise  to  his  heart  as  he  turns  in  under  the 
archway  of  the  Gate  House. 

And  so  he  goes  up  the  postern  stair. 

John  Jasper  passes  a  more  agreeable  and  cheerful  day  than 
either  of  his  guests.  Having  no  music-lessons  to  give  in  th& 
holiday  season,  his  time  is  his  own,  but  for  the  cathedral 
services.  He  is  early  among  the  shopkeepers,  ordering  little 
table  luxuries  that  his  nephew  likes.  His  nephew  will  not  be 
with  him  long,  he  tells  his  provision-dealers,  and  so  must  be 
petted  and  made  much  of.  While  out  on  his  hospitable  pre- 
parations, he  looks  in  on  Mr.  Sapsea ;  and  mentions  that  dear 
Ned,  and  that  inflammable  young  spark  of  Mr.  Crisparkle's,  are 
to  dine  at  the  Gate  House  to-day,  and  make  up  their  difference. 
Mr.  Sapsea  is  by  no  means  friendly  towards  the  inflammable- 
young  sj)ark.  He  says  that  his  complexion  is  "  Un-English." 
And  when  Mr.  Sapsea  has  once  declared  anything  to  be  Un- 
English,  he  considers  that  thing  everlastingly  sunk  in  the  bottom- 
less pit. 

John  Jasper  is  truly  sorry  to  hear  Mr.  Sapsea  speak  thus,  for 
he  knows  right  well  that  Mr.  Sapsea  never  speaks  without  a 
meaning,  and  that  he  has  a  subtle  trick  of  being  right.  I\Ir.  Sapsea 
(by  a  very  remarkable  coincidence)  is  of  exactly  that  opinion. 


112  THE   MYSTEllY   OF    EDWIN   DROOD. 

Mr.  Jasper  is  in  beautiful  voice  this  day.  In  the  pathetic  sup- 
plication to  have  his  heart  inclined  to  keep  this  law,  he  quite 
astonishes  his  fellows  by  his  melodious  power.  He  has  never  sung 
difficult  music  with  such  skill  and  harmony,  as  in  this  day's 
Anthem.  His  nervous  temperament  is  occasionally  prone  to  take 
difficult  music  a  little  too  quickly ;  to-day,  his  time  is  perfect. 

These  results  are  probably  attained  through  a  grand  composure 
of  the  spirits.  The  mere  mechanism  of  his  throat  is  a  little  tender, 
for  he  wears,  both  with  his  singing-robe  and  with  his  ordinary 
dress,  a  large  black  scarf  of  strong  close-woven  silk,  slung  loosely 
round  his  neck.  But  his  composure  is  so  noticeable,  that  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle  speaks  of  it  as  they  come  out  from  VesjDers. 

"  I  must  thank  you,  Jasper,  for  the  pleasure  with  which  I  have 
heard  you  to-day.  Beautiful !  Delightful !  You  could  not  have 
so  outdone  yourself,  I  hope,  without  being  wonderfully  well." 

"  I  am  wonderfully  well." 

"Nothing  unequal,"  says  the  Minor  Canon,  with  a  smooth 
motion  of  his  hand :  "  nothing  unsteady,  nothing  forced,  nothing 
avoided ;  all  thoroughly  done  in  a  masterly  manner,  with  perfect 
«elf-command." 

"  Thank  you.     I  hope  so,  if  it  is  not  too  much  to  say." 

"  One  would  think,  Jasper,  you  had  been  trying  a  new  medicine 
for  that  occasional  indisposition  of  yours." 

"  No,  really  ?     That's  well  observed  ;  for  I  have." 

"  Then  stick  to  it,  my  good  fellow,"  says  Mr.  Crisparkle,  clapping 
him  on  the  shoulder  with  friendly  encouragement,  "  stick  to  it." 

"I  will." 

"  I  congratulate  jou"  Mr.  Crisparkle  pursues,  as  they  come  out 
of  the  cathedral,  "  on  all  accounts." 

"  Thank  you  again.  I  wall  walk  round  to  the  Corner  with  you, 
if  you  don't  object ;  I  have  plenty  of  time  before  my  company 
come  ;  and  I  want  to  say  a  word  to  you,  which  I  think  you  will 
not  be  displeased  to  hear." 

"  What  is  it  ?" 

"  Well,  We  were  speaking,  the  other  evening,  of  my  black 
humours." 

Mr.  Crisparkle's  face  falls,  and  he  shakes  his  head  deploringly. 

"  I  said,  you  know,  that  1  should  make  you  an  antidote  to  those 
black  humours ;  and  you  said  you  hoped  I  would  consign  them  to 
the  flames." 

"  And  I  still  hope  so,  Jasper." 

"  With  the  best  reason  in  the  world !  I  mean  to  burn  this  year's 
Diary  at  the  year's  end." 

"Because  you ?"     Mr.  Crisparkle  brightens  greatly  as  he 

thus  begins. 

"  You  anticipate  me.  Because  I  feel  that  I  have  been  out  of 
sorts,  gloomy,  bilious,  brain-oppressed,  whatever  it  may  be.  You 
said  I  had  been  exaggerative.     So  I  have." 

Mr.  Crisparkle's  brightened  face  brightens  still  more. 

"  I  couldn't  see  it  then,  because  I  was  out  of  sorts ;  but  I  am  in 
a  healthier  state  now,  and  I  acknowledge  it  with  genuine  pleasure. 
I  made  a  great  deal  of  a  very  little  ;  that's  the  fact." 


AVHEN   SHALL    THESE    THIiEE    MEET    AGAIN  ?  113 

*'  It  does  me  good,"  cries  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  to  hear  you  say  it !" 

"  A  man  leading  a  monotonous  life,"  Jasper  proceeds,  "  and 
getting  liis  nerves,  or  his  stomach,  out  of  order,  dwells  upon  an  idea 
until  it  loses  its  proportions.  That  was  my  case  with  the  idea  in 
question.  So  I  shall  burn  the  evidence  of  my  case,  when  the  book 
is  full,  and  begin  the  next  volume  with  a  clearer  vision." 

"  This  is  better,"  says  Mr.  Crisparkle,  stopping  at  the  steps  of 
his  own  door  to  shake  hands,  "than  I  could  have  hoped !" 

"  Why,  naturally,"  returns  Jasper.  "  You  had  but  little  reason 
to  hope  that  I  should  become  more  like  yourself.  You  are  always 
training  yourself  to  be,  mind  and  body,  as  clear  as  crystal,  and 
you  always  are,  and  never  change ;  whereas,  I  am  a  muddy,  soli- 
tary, moping  weed.  However,  I  have  got  over  that  mope.  Shall 
I  wait,  while  jou  ask  if  Mr.  Keville  has  left  for  my  place  ?  If  not, 
he  and  I  may  walk  round  together." 

"  I  think,"  says  Mr.  Crisparkle,  opening  the  entrance  door  with 
his  key,  "  that  he  left  some  time  ago ;  at  least  I  know  he  left,  and 
I  think  he  has  not  come  back.  But  I'll  enquire.  You  won't 
come  in  ?" 

"  My  comj^any  wait,"  says  Jasper,  with  a  smile. 

The  Minor  Canon  disappears,  and  in  a  few  moments  returns. 
As  he  thought,  Mr.  Keville  has  not  come  back ;  indeed,  as  he 
remembers  now,  Mr.  Neville  said  he  would  probably  go  straight 
to  the  Gate  House. 

"Bad  manners  in  a  host!"  says  Jasper.  "My  company  will  be 
there  before  me !  What  will  you  bet  that  I  don't  find  my  company 
embracing  ?" 

"  I  will  bet — or  I  would,  if  I  ever  did  bet,"  returns  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle, "that  your  company  will  have  a  gay  entertainer  this 
evening." 

Jasper  nods,  and  laughs  Good  Xight ! 

He  retraces  his  steps  to  the  cathedral  door,  and  turns  dowTi  past 
it  to  the  Gate  House.  He  sings,  in  a  low  voice  and  with  delicate 
expression,  as  he  walks  along.  It  still  seems  as  if  a  false  note 
were  not  within  his  power  to-night,  and  as  if  nothing  could  hurry 
or  retard  him.  Arriving  thus,  under  the  arched  entrance  of  his 
dwelling,  he  pauses  for  an  instant  in  the  shelter  to  jduII  off  that 
great  black  scarf,  and  hang  it  in  a  loop  upon  his  arm.  For  that 
brief  time,  his  face  is  knitted  and  stern.  But  it  immediately  clears, 
as  he  resumes  his  singing,  and  his  way. 

And  so  he  goes  up  the  postern  stair. 

The  red  light  burns  steadily  all  the  evening  in  the  lighthouse 
on  the  margin  of  the  tide  of  bus}'  life.  Softened  sounds  and  hum 
of  traffic  pass  it  and  flow  on  irregularly  into  the  lonely  Precincts  ; 
but  very  little  else  goes  by,  save  violent  rushes  of  wind.  It  comes 
on  to  blow  a  boisterous  gale. 

The  Precincts  are  never  particularly  well  lighted;  but  the 
strong  blasts  of  wind  blowing  out  many  of  the  lamps  (in  some 
instances  shattering  the  frames  too,  and  bringing  the  glass  rattling 
to  the  ground  J,  they  are  unusually  dark  to  night.  The  darkness 
is  augmented  and  confused,  by  flying  dust  from  the  earth,  dry 

I 


114  THE   MYSTERY   OF  EDWIN   DROOD. 

twigs  from  the  trees,  and  great  ragged  fragments  from  tlie  rooks' 
nests  Tip  in  the  tower.  The  trees  themselves  so  toss  and  creak,  as 
this  tangible  part  of  the  darkness  madly  whirls  about,  that  they 
seem  in  peril  of  being  torn  out  of  the  earth  :  while  ever  and 
again  a  crack,  and  a  rushing  fall,  denote  that  some  large  branch 
has  yielded  to  the  storm. 

No  such  power  of  wind  has  blown  for  many  a  winter-night. 
Chimneys  topple  in  the  streets,  and  people  hold  to  posts  and  corners, 
and  to  one  another,  to  keep  themselves  upon  their  feet.  The 
violent  rushes  abate  not,  but  increase  in  frequency  and  fury  until 
at  midnight,  when  the  streets  are  empty,  the  storm  goes  thundering 
along  them,  rattling  at  all  the  latches,  and  tearing  at  all  the 
shutters,  as  if  warning  the  people  to  get  up  and  fly  with  it,  rather 
than  have  the  roofs  brought  down  upon  their  brains. 

Still,  the  red  light  burns  steadily.  Nothing  is  steady  but  the 
red  light. 

All  through  the  night,  the  wind  blows,  and  abates  not.  But 
early  in  the  morning  when  there  is  barely  enough  light  in 
the  east  to  dim  the  stars,  it  begins  to  lull.  From  that  time,  with 
occasional  wild  charges,  like  a  wounded  monster  dying,  it  drops 
and  sinks ;  and  at  full  daylight  it  is  dead. 

It  is  then  seen  that  the  hands  of  the  cathedral  clock  are  torn 
oif ;  that  lead  from  the  roof  has  been  stripped  away,  rolled  up,  and 
blown  into  the  Close ;  and  that  some  stones  have  been  displaced 
upon  the  summit  of  the  great  tower.  Christmas  morning  though 
it  be,  it  is  necessary  to  send  up  workmen,  to  ascertain  the  extent 
of  the  damage  done.  These,  led  by  Durdles,  go  aloft ;  while 
Mr.  Tope  and  a  crowd  of  early  idlers  gather  down  in  Minor 
Canon  Corner,  shading  their  eyes  and  watching  for  their 
appearance  up  there. 

This  cluster  is  suddenly  broken  and  put  aside  by  the  hands  of 
Mr.  Jasper  ;  all  the  gazing  eyes  are  brought  down  to  the  earth  by 
his  loudly  enquiring  of  Mr.  Crisparkle,  at  an  open  window  : 

"  Where  is  my  nephew  ?" 

"  He  has  not  been  here.     Is  he  not  with  you  ?" 

''  No.  He  went  down  to  the  river  last  night,  with  Mr.  Neville, 
to  look  at  the  storm,  and  has  not  been  back.     Call  Mr.  Neville  !" 

"  He  left  this  morning,  early." 

"  Left  this  morning,  early  ?     Let  me  in,  let  me  in  !" 

There  is  no  more  looking  up  at  the  tower,  now.  All  the  assem- 
bled eyes  are  turned  on  Mr.  Jasper,  white,  half-dressed,  panting, 
and  clinging  to  the  rail  before  the  Minor  Canon's  house. 


CHAPTEE  XV. 

IMPEACHED. 


Neville  Landless  had  started  so  early  and  walked  at  so  good 
a  pace,  that  when  the  church  bells  began  to  ring  in  Cloisterham 
for  morning   service,  he  was  eight  miles  away.     As  he  wanted 


IMPEACHED.  115 

ihis  breakfast  by  that  time,  having  set  forth  on  a  crust  of  bread, 
he  stopped  at  the  next  roadside  tavern  to  refresh. 

Visitors  in  want  of  breakfast — unless  they  were  horses  or  cattle, 
for  which  class  of  guests  there  was  preparation  enough  in  the  way 
of  water-trough  and  hay — were  so  unusual  at  the  sign  of  The 
Tilted  Wagon,  that  it  took  a  long  time  to  get  the  wagon  into  the 
track  of  tea  and  toast  and  bacon.  Neville,  in  the  interval,  sitting 
in  a  sanded  parlor,  wondering  in  how  long  a  time  after  he  had 
gone,  the  sneez}^  fire  of  damp  fagots  would  begin  to  make  some- 
body else  warm. 

Indeed,  The  Tilted  Wagon,  as  a  cool  establishment  on  the  top  of 
a  hill,  where  the  ground  before  the  door  was  puddled  with  damp 
hoofs  and  trodden  straw ;  where  a  scolding  landlady  slapped  a 
moist  baby  (with  one  red  sock  on  and  one  wanting),  in  the  bar ; 
■where  the  cheese  was  cast  aground  upon  a  shelf,  in  company  with 
a  mouldy  tablecloth  and  a  green- handled  knife,  in  a  sort  of  cast- 
iron  canoe ;  where  the  pale-faced  bread  shed  tears  of  crumb  over 
its  shipwreck  in  another  canoe ;  where  the  family  linen,  half 
washed  and  half  dried,  led  a  public  life  of  lying  about ;  where 
everything  to  drink  was  drunk  out  of  mugs,  and  everything  else 
was  suggestive  of  a  rhyme  to  mugs ;  The  Tilted  Wagon,  all  these 
things  considered,  hardly  kept  its  painted  promise  of  providing 
good  entertainment  fjr  Man  and  Beast.  However,  Man,  in  the 
present  case,  was  not  critical,  but  took  what  entertainment  he 
could  get,  and  went  on  again  after  a  longer  rest  than  he  needed. 

He  stopped  at  some  quarter  of  a  mile  from  the  house,  hesitating 
whether  to  pursue  the  road,  or  to  follow  a  cart-track  between  two 
high  hedgerows,  which  led  across  the  slope  of  a  breezy  heath,  and 
evidently  struck  into  the  road  again  bj^-and-bye.  He  decided 
in  favor  of  this  latter  track,  and  pursued  it  with  some  toil  ;  the  rise 
being  steep,  and  the  way  worn  into  deep  ruts. 

He  was  labouring  along,  when  he  became  aware  of  some  other 
pedestrians  behind  him.  As  they  were  coming  up  at  a  faster  pace 
than  his,  he  stood  aside,  against  one  of  the  high  banks,  to  let  them 
pass.  But  their  manner  was  very  curious.  Only  four  of  them 
passed.  Other  four  slackened  speed,  and  loitered  as  intending  to 
follow  him  when  he  should  go  on.  The  remainder  of  the  party 
(half  a  dozen  perhaps),  turned,  and  went  back  at  a  great  rate. 

He  looked  at  the  four  behind  him,  and  he  looked  at  the  four 
before  him.  They  all  returned  his  look.  He  resumed  his  way. 
The  four  in  advance  went  on,  constantly  looking  back ;  the  four  in 
the  rear  came  closing  up. 

When  they  all  ranged  out  from  the  narrow  track  npon  the  open 
slope  of  the  heath,  and  this  order  was  maintained,  let  him  diverge 
as  he  would  to  either  side,  there  was  no  longer  room  to  doubt  that 
he  was  beset  by  these  fellows.  He  stopped,  as  a  last  test;  and 
they  all  stopped. 

"  Why  do  you  attend  upon  me  in  this  way  ?"  he  asked  the  whole 
body.     "Are  you  a  pack  of  thieves?" 

"  Don't  answer  him,"  said  one  of  the  number ;  he  did  not  see 
which.     "  Better  be  quiet." 

"  Better  be  quiet  ?"  repeated  Neville.     "  Who  said  so  ?" 

I  2 


116  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DKOOD. 

Nobody  replied. 

"  It's  good  advice,  whichever  of  you  skulkers  gave  it,"  he  went 
on  angrily.  "  I  will  not  submit  to  be  penned  in  between  four  men 
there,  and  four  men  there.  I  wish  to  pass,  and  I  mean  to  pass, 
those  four  in  front," 

The}^  were  all  standing  still :  himself  included. 

"  If  eight  men,  or  four  men,  or  two  men,  set  upon  one,"  he 
proceeded,  growing  more  enraged,  "  the  one  has  no  chance  but  to 
set  his  mark  uj)on  some  of  them.  And  by  the  Lord  I'll  do  it, 
if  I  am  interrupted  any  further  !" 

Shouldering  his  heavy  stick,  and  quickening  his  pace,  he  shot  on 
to  pass  the  four  ahead.  The  largest  and  strongest  man  of  the 
number  changed  swiftly  to  the  side  on  which  he  came  up,  and 
dexterously  closed  with  him  and  went  down  with  him ;  but  not 
before  the  heavy  stick  had  descended  smartly. 

"  Let  him  be !"  said  this  man  in  a  suppressed  voice,  as  they 
struggled  together  on  the  grass.  "  Fair  play !  His  is  the  build 
of  a  girl  to  mine,  and  he's  got  a  weight  strapped  to  his  back 
besides.     Let  him  alone.     I'll  manage  him." 

After  a  little  rolling  about,  in  a  close  scuffle  which  caused  the 
faces  of  both  to  be  besmeared  with  blood,  the  man  took  his  knee 
from  Neville's  chest,  and  rose,  saying  :  "  There  !  Now  take  him 
arm-in-arm,  any  two  of  you  !" 

It  was  immediately  done. 

"  As  to  our  being  a  pack  of  thieves,  Mr.  Landless,"  said  the 
man,  as  he  spat  out  some  blood,  and  wiped  more  from  his  face : 
"you  know  better  than  that,  at  midday.  We  wouldn't  have 
touched  you,  if  you  hadn't  forced  us.  We're  going  to  take  3'ou 
round  to  the  high  road,  anyhow,  and  you'll  find  help  enough 
against  thieves  there,  if  you  want  it.  Wipe  his  face  somebody ; 
see  how  it's  a-trickling  down  him!" 

When  his  face  was  cleansed,  Neville  recognized  in  the  speaker, 
Joe,  driver  of  the  Cloisterham  omnibus,  whom  he  had  seen  but 
once,  and  that  on  the  day  of  his  arrival. 

"  And  what  I  recommend  you  for  the  present,  is,  don't  talk, 
Mr.  Landless.  You'll  find  a  friend  waiting  for  you,  at  the  high  road 
— gone  ahead  by  the  other  way  when  we  split  into  two  parties — 
and  you  had  much  better  say  nothing  till  you  come  up  with  him. 
Bring  that  stick  along,  somebody  else,  and  let's  be  moving !" 

Utterly  bewildered,  Neville  stared  around  him  and  said  not  a 
word.  Walking  between  his  two  conductors,  who  held  his  arms; 
in  theirs,  he  went  on,  as  in  a  dream,  until  they  came  again  into 
the  high  road,  and  into  the  midst  of  a  little  group  of  people.  The 
men  who  had  turned  back,  were  among  the  group ;  and  its  central 
figures  were  Mr.  Jasper  and  Mr.  Crisparkle.  Neville's  conductors, 
took  him  up  to  the  Minor  Canon,  and  there  released  him,  as  an  act 
of  deference  to  that  gentleman. 

*'  What  is  all  this,  sir  ?  What  is  the  matter  ?  I  feel  as  if  I  had 
lost  my  senses!"  cried  Neville,  the  group  closing  in  around  him. 

"Where  is  my  nephew?"  asked  Mr,  Jasper,  wildly. 

"  Where  is  your  nephew?"  repeated  Neville.  "  Why  do  you  ask 
me?" 


IMPEACHED.  117 

*'  I  ask  you,"  retorted  Jasper,  "  because  you  were  the  last  person 
in  his  company,  and  he  is  not  to  be  found." 

"  Not  to  be  found !"  cried  Neville,  aghast. 

*'  Stay,  stay,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle.  "  Permit  nie,  Jasper.  Mr. 
Xeville,  you  are  confounded ;  collect  your  thoughts ;  it  is  of  great 
importance  that  you  should  collect  your  thoughts ;  attend  to  me." 

"  I  will  try,  sir,  but  I  seem  mad." 

"  You  left  Mr.  Jasper's  last  night,  with  Edwin  Drood  ?" 

*'  Yes." 

"  At  what  hour  ?" 

"  Was  it  at  twelve  o'clock?"  asked  Neville,  with  his  hand  to  his 
confused  head,  and  appealing  to  Jasper. 

"  Quite  right,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle ;  "  the  hour  Mr.  Jasper  has 
already  named  to  me.     You  went  down  to  the  river  together  ?" 

"  Undoubtedly.     To  see  the  action  of  the  wind  there." 

"  What  followed  ?     How  long  did  you  stay  there  ?" 

"  About  ten  minutes  ;  I  should  say  not  more.  We  then  walked 
together  to  your  house,  and  he  took  leave  of  me  at  the  door." 

"  Did  he  say  that  he  was  going  down  to  the  river  again  ?" 

"No.     He  said  that  he  was  going  straight  back," 

The  bystanders  looked  at  one  another,  and  at  Mr.  Crisparkle. 
To  whom,  Mr.  Jasper,  who  had  been  intensely  watching  Neville, 
said :  in  a  low  distinct  suspicious  voice :  "  What  are  those  stains 
upon  his  dress  ?" 

All  eyes  were  turned  towards  the  blood  upon  his  clothes. 

"  And  here  are  the  same  stains  upon  this  stick !"  said  Jasper, 
taking  it  from  the  hand  of  the  man  who  held  it.  "I  know  the 
stick  to  be  his,  and  he  carried  it  last  night.  What  does  this 
mean  .-' 

"  In  the  name  of  God,  say  wdiat  it  means,  Neville !"  urged  Mr. 
CrisjDarkle. 

"  That  man  and  I,"  said  Neville,  pointing  out  his  late  adversary, 
"  had  a  struggle  for  the  stick  just  now,  and  you  may  see  the  same 
marks  on  him,  sir.  What  was  I  to  suppose,  when  I  found  myself 
molested  by  eight  people  ?  Could  I  dream  of  the  true  reason  when 
they  would  give  me  none  at  all  ?" 

They  admitted  that  they  had  thought  it  discreet  to  be  silent, 
and  that  the  struggle  had  taken  place.  And  yet  the  very  men  who 
had  seen  it,  looked  darkly  at  the  smears  which  the  bright  cold  air 
had  already  dried. 

*'  We  must  return,  Neville,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle ;  "  of  course 
you  will  be  glad  to  come  back  to  clear  yourself?" 

"  Of  course,  sir." 

"  Mr.  Landless  will  walk  at  my  side,"  the  Minor  Canon  con- 
tinued, looking  around  him.     "  Come,  Neville !" 

They  set  forth  on  the  walk  back ;  and  the  others,  with  one 
exception,  straggled  after  them  at  various  distances.  Jasper 
walked  on  the  other  side  of  Neville,  and  never  quitted  that 
position.  He  was  silent,  while  Mr.  Crisparkle  more  than  once 
repeated  his  former  questions,  and  while  Neville  repeated  his 
former  answers  ;  also,  while  they  both  hazarded  some  explanatory 
conjectures.     He  was  obstinately  silent,  because  Mr.  Crisparkle's 


118  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DEOOD. 

manner  directly  appealed  to  iiim  to  take  some  part  in  the  dis- 
cussion, and  no  appeal  would  move  his  fixed  face.  When  they 
drew  near  to  the  city,  and  it  was  suggested  by  the  Minor  Canon 
that  they  might  do  well  in  calling  on  the  Mayor  at  once,  he 
assented  with  a  stern  nod ;  but  he  spake  no  word  until  they  stood 
in  Mr.  Sapsea's  parlor. 

Mr.  Sapsea  being  informed  by  Mr.  Crisparkle  of  the  circum- 
stances under  which  they  desired  to  make  a  voluntary  statement 
before  him,  Mr.  Jasper  broke  silence  by  declaring  that  he  placed 
his  whole  reliance,  humanly  speaking,  on  Mr,  Sapsea's  penetration. 
There  was  no  conceivable  reason  why  his  nephew  should  have 
suddenly  absconded,  unless  Mr.  Sapsea  could  suggest  one,  and 
then  he  would  defer.  There  was  no  intelligible  likelihood  of  his 
having  returned  to  the  river,  and  been  accidentally  drowned  in 
the  dark,  unless  it  should  appear  likely  to  Mr.  Sapsea,  and  then 
again  he  would  defer.  He  washed  his  hands  as  clean  as  he 
could,  of  all  horrible  suspicions,  unless  it  should  appear  to  Mr. 
Sapsea  that  some  such  were  inseparable  from  his  last  companion 
before  his  disappearance  (not  on  good  terms  with  previously),  and 
then,  once  more,  he  would  defer.  His  own  state  of  mind,  he 
being  distracted  with  doubts,  and  labouring  under  dismal  appre- 
hensions, was  not  to  be  safety  trusted ;  but  Mr.  Sapsea's  was. 

Mr.  Sapsea  expressed  his  opinion  that  the  case  had  a  dark  look ;. 
in  short  (and  here  his  eyes  rested  full  on  Neville's  countenance),, 
an  Un-English  complexion.  Having  made  this  grand  point,  he 
wandered  into  a  denser  haze  and  maze  of  nonsense  than  even  a 
mayor  might  have  been  expected  to  disport  himself  in,  and  came 
out  of  it  with  the  brilliant  discovery  that  to  take  the  life  of  a 
fellow-creature  was  to  take  something  that  didn't  belong  to  you. 
He  wavered  whether  or  no  he  should  at  once  issue  his  warrant  for 
the  committal  of  Neville  Landless  to  jail,  under  circumstances  of 
grave  suspicion ;  and  he  might  have  gone  so  far  as  to  do  it  but  for 
the  indignant  protest  of  the  Minor  Canon :  who  undertook  for  the 
young  man's  remaining  in  his  own  house,  and  being  produced  by 
his  own  hands,  whenever  demanded.  Mr.  Jasper  then  understood 
Mr.  Sapsea  to  suggest  that  the  river  should  be  dragged,  that  its 
banks  should  be  rigidly  examined,  that  particulars  of  the  dis- 
appearance should  be  sent  to  all  outlying  places  and  to  London, 
and  that  placards  and  advertisements  should  be  widely  circu- 
lated imploring  Edwin  Drood,  if  for  any  unknown  reason  ho 
had  withdrawn  himself  from  his  uncle's  home  and  society,  to  take 
pity  on  that  loving  kinsman's  sore  bereavement  and  distress,  and 
somehow  inform  him  that  he  was  yet  alive.  Mr.  Sapsea  was 
perfectly  understood,  for  this  was  exactly  his  meaning  (though  he 
had  said  nothing  about  it) ;  and  measures  were  taken  towards  all 
these  ends  immediately. 

It  would  be  difficult  to  determine  which  was  the  more  oppressed 
with  horror  and  amazement :  Neville  Landless,  or  John  Jasper. 
But  that  Jasper's  position  forced  him  to  be  active,  while  Neville's 
forced  him  to  be  passive,  there  would  have  been  nothing  to  choose 
between  them.     Each  was  bowed  down  and  broken. 

With  the  earliest  light  of  the  next  morning,  men  were  at  work 


IMPEACHED.  119 

upon  the  river,  and  other  men — most  of  whom  volunteered  for  the 
service — were  examining  the  banks.  All  the  livelong  day,  the 
search  went  on ;  upon  the  river,  with  barge  and  pole,  and  drag 
and  net ;  upon  the  muddy  and  rushy  shore,  with  jack-boot,  hatchet, 
spade,  rope,  dogs,  and  all  imaginable  appliances.  Even  at  night, 
the  river  was  sjoecked  with  lanterns,  and  lurid  with  fires  ;  far-off 
creeks,  into  Avhich  the  tide  washed  as  it  changed,  had  their  knots 
of  watchers,  listening  to  the  lapf)ing  of  the  stream,  and  looking 
out  for  any  burden  it  might  bear  ;  remote  shingly  causeways  near 
the  sea,  and  lonely  points  off  which  there  was  a  race  of  water,  had 
their  unwonted  flaring  cressets  and  rough-coated  figures  when 
the  next  day  dawned ;  but  no  trace  of  Edwin  Drood  revisited  the 
light  of  the  sun. 

All  that  day,  again,  the  search  went  on.  Now,  in  barge  and 
boat ;  and  now  ashore  among  the  osiers,  or  tramjung  amidst  mud 
and  stakes  and  jagged  stones  in  low-lying  places,  where  solitary 
watermarks  and  signals  of  strange  shapes  showed  like  spectres, 
John  Jasper  worked  and  toiled.  But  to  no  purpose  ;  for  still  no 
trace  of  Edwin  Drood  revisited  the  light  of  the  sun. 

Setting  his  watches  for  that  night  again,  so  that  vigilant  eyes 
should  be  kept  on  every  change  of  tide,  he  went  home  exhausted. 
Unkempt  and  disordered,  bedaubed  with  mud  that  had  dried  upon 
him,  and  with  much  of  his  clothing  torn  to  rags,  he  had  but  just 
dropped  into  his  easy  chair,  when  Mr.  Grewgious  stood  before  him. 

"  This  is  strange  news,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious. 

"  Strange  and  fearful  news." 

Jasper  had  merely  lifted  up  his  heavy  eyes  to  say  it,  and  now 
dropped  them  again  as  he  drooped,  worn  out,  over  one  side  of  his 
easy  chair. 

Mr.  Grewgious  smoothed  his  head  and  face,  and  stood  looking 
at  the  fire. 

"  How  is  your  ward  ?"  asked  Jasper,  after  a  time,  in  a  faint, 
fatigued  voice. 

"  Poor  little  thing  !     You  may  imagine  her  condition." 

*'  Have  you  seen  his  sister  ?"  enquired  Jasper,  as  before. 

"Whose?" 

The  curtness  of  the  counter-question,  and  the  cool  slow  manner 
in  which,  as  he  put  it,  Mr.  Grewgious  moved  his  ejes  from  the 
fire  to  his  companion's  face,  might  at  any  other  time  have  been 
exasperating.  In  his  depression  and  exhaustion,  Jasper  merely 
opened  his  eyes  to  say  :  "  The  suspected  young  man's." 

"  Do  you  suspect  him  ?"  a^ked  Mr.  Grewgious. 

*'  I  don't  know  what  to  think.     I  cannot  make  up  my  mind." 

"  Nor  I,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  But  as  you  spoke  of  him  as 
the  suspected  young  man,  I  thought  you  Jiad  made  up  your  mind. 
— I  have  just  left  Miss  Landless." 

*'  What  is  her  state  ?" 

*'  Defiance  of  all  suspicion,  and  unbounded  faith  in  her  brother." 

"  Poor  thing !" 

*'  However,"  pursued  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  it  is  not  of  her  that  I 
came  to  speak.  It  is  of  my  ward.  I  have  a  communication  to 
make  that  will  surprise  you.     At  least,  it  has  surprised  me." 


120  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

Jasper,  with,  a  groaning  sigh,  turned  wearily  in  his  chair. 

"  Shall  I  put  it  off  till  to-morrow  ?"  said  Mr.  Grewgious. 
"  Mind !     I  warn  you,  that  I  think  it  will  surprise  you  !" 

More  attention  and  concentration  came  into  John  Jasper's  eyes 
as  they  caught  sight  of  Mr.  Grewgious  smoothing  his  head  again, 
and  again  looking  at  the  fire ;  but  now,  with  a  compressed  and 
determined  mouth. 

"  What  is  it  ?"  demanded  Jasper,  becoming  upright  in  his 
chair. 

"  To  be  sure,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  provokingly  slowly  and 
internally,  as  he  kept  his  eyes  on  the  fire  :  "I  might  have  known 
it  sooner ;  she  gave  me  the  opening ;  but  I  am  such  an  ex- 
ceedingly Angular  man,  that  it  never  occurred  to  me  ;  I  took  all 
for  granted." 

"  What  is  it  ?"  demanded  Jasper,  once  more. 

Mr.  Grewgious,  alternately  opening  and  shutting  the  palms  of 
his  hands  as  he  warmed  them  at  the  fire,  and  looking  fixedly  at 
him  sideways,  and  never  changing  either  his  action  or  his  look  in 
all  that  followed,  went  on  to  reply. 

"  This  young  couple,  the  lost  youth  and  Miss  Eosa,  my  ward, 
though  so  long  betrothed,  and  so  long  recognizing  their  betrothal, 
and  so  near  being  married " 

Mr.  Grewgious  saw  a  staring  white  face,  and  two  quivering 
white  lips,  in  the  easy  chair,  and  saw  two  muddy  hands  gripping 
i  ts  sides.  But  for  the  hands,  he  might  have  thought  he  had  never 
seen  the  face. 

"  — This  young  couple  came  gradually  to  the  discovery,  (made 
on  both  sides  pretty  equally,  I  think),  that  they  would  be  happier 
and  better,  both  in  their  present  and  their  future  lives,  as  affec- 
tionate friends,  or  say  rather  as  brother  and  sister,  than  as  husband 
and  wife." 

Mr.  Grewgious  saw  a  lead-coloured  face  in  the  easy  chair, 
and  on  its  surface  dreadful  starting  drops  or  bubbles,  as  if  of 
steel. 

"  This  young  couple  formed  at  length  the  healthy  resolution  of 
interchanging  their  discoveries,  openly,  sensibly,  and  tenderly. 
They  met  for  that  purpose.  After  some  innocent  and  generous 
talk,  they  agreed  to  dissolve  their  existing,  and  their  intended, 
relations,  for  ever  and  ever." 

Mr.  Grewgious  saw  a  ghastly  figure  rise,  open-mouthed,  from 
the  easy  chair,  and  lift  its  outspread  hands  towards  its  head. 

"One  of  this  young  couple,  and  that  one  your  nephew,  fearful, 
however,  that  in  the  tenderness  of  your  affection  for  him  you 
would  be  bitterly  disappointed  by  so  wide  a  departure  from  his 
projected  life,  forbore  to  tell  you  the  secret,  for  a  few  days,  and 
left  it  to  be  disclosed  by  me,  when  I  should  come  down  to 
speak  to  you,  and  he  would  be  gone.     I  speak  to  you,  and  he  is 


gone." 


Mr.  Grewgious  saw  the  ghastly  figure  throw  back  its  head, 
clutch  its  hair  with  its  hands,  and  turn  with  a  Avrithing  action 
from  him. 

"  I  have  now  said  all  I  have  to  say :  except  that  this  young 


o 

t— ( 

u 

I— ( 

l:^ 

CO 

CO 

<^ 

O 

O 

w 

o 


DEVOTED.  121 

couple  parted,  firmly,  tliougli  not  without  tears  and  sorrow,  on  the 
evening  when  you  last  saw  them  together." 

Mr.  Grewgious  heard  a  terrible  shriek,  and  saw  no  ghastly 
figure,  sitting  or  standing ;  saw  nothing  but  a  heap  of  torn  and 
miry  clothes  upon  the  floor. 

Not  changing  his  action  even  then,  he  opened  and  shut  the 
palms  of  his  hands  as  he  warmed  them,  and  looked  down  at  it. 


CHAPTEE  XVI. 

DEVOTED. 


Whex  John  Jasper  recovered  from  his  fit  or  swoon,  he  found 
himself  being  tended  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Tope,  whom  his  visitor  had 
summoned  for  the  purpose.  His  visitor,  wooden  of  aspect,  sat 
stiffly  in  a  chair,  with  his  hands  upon  his  knees,  watching  his 
recovery. 

"  There !  You've  come  to,  nicely  now,  sir,"  said  the  tearful 
Mrs.  Tope  ;  "  jon  were  thoroughly  worn  out,  and  no  wonder !" 

"  A  man,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  with  his  usual  air  of  repeating  a 
lesson,  "  cannot  have  his  rest  broken,  and  his  mind  cruelly  tor- 
mented, and  his  body  overtaxed  by  fatigue,  without  being 
thoroughly  worn  out." 

"  I  fear  I  have  alarmed  you  ?"  Jasper  apologized  faintly,  when 
he  was  helped  into  his  easy  chair. 

"  Not  at  all,  I  thank  you,"  answered  Mr.  Grewgious. 

"  You  are  too  considerate." 

"  Not  at  all,  I  thank  you,"  answered  Mr.  Grewgious  again. 

"  You  must  take  some  wine,  sir,"  said  Mrs.  Tope,  "  and  the  jelly 
that  I  had  ready  for  you,  and  that  you  wouldn't  put  your  lips  to 
at  noon,  though  I  warned  you  what  would  come  of  it,  you  know, 
and  you  not  breakfasted  ;  and  you  must  have  a  wing  of  the  roast 
fowl  that  has  been  put  back  twenty  times  if  it's  been  put  back 
once.  It  shall  all  be  on  table  in  five  minutes,  and  this  good 
gentleman  belike  will  stop  and  see  you  take  it." 

This  good  gentleman  replied  with  a  snort,  which  might  mean 
yes,  or  no,  or  anything,  or  nothing,  and  Avhich  Mrs.  Tope  would 
have  found  highly  mystifying,  but  that  her  attention  was  divided 
by  the  service  of  the  table. 

"  You  will  take  something  with  me?"  said  Jasper,  as  the  cloth 
was  laid. 

"  I  couldn't  get  a  morsel  down  mj^  throat,  I  thank  you,"  answered 
Mr.  Grewgious. 

Jasper  both  ate  and  drank  almost  voraciously.  Combined  with 
the  hurry  in  his  mode  of  doing  it,  was  an  evident  indifference  to 
the  taste  of  what  he  took,  suggesting  that  he  ate  and  drank  to 
fortify  himself  against  any  other  failure  of  the  spirits,  far  more  than 
to  gratify  his  palate.  Mr.  Grewgious  in  the  meantime  sat  upright, 
with  no  expression  in  his  face,  and  a  hard  kind  of  imperturbably 
polite  protest  all  over  him  :  as  though  he  would  have  said,  in  reply 


122  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

to  some  invitation  to  discourse  :  "I  couldn't  originate  tlie  faintest 
approach  to  an   observation  on   any  subject  whatever,   I  thank 

YOU." 

"  Do  you  know,"  said  JasjDer,  when  he  had  jiushed  away  his 
plate  and  glass,  and  had  sat  meditating  for  a  few  minutes  :  "do 
you  know  that  I  find  some  crumbs  of  comfort  in  the  communication 
with  which  you  have  so  much  amazed  me  ?" 

*'  Bo  you  ?"  returned  Mr.  Grewgious  ;  pretty  plainly  adding  the 
unspoken  clause ;  "  I  don't,  I  thank  you !" 

"  After  recovering  from  the  shock  of  a  piece  of  news  of  my  dear 
boy,  so  entirely  unexj)ected,  and  so  destructive  of  all  the  castles  I 
had  built  for  him  ;  and  after  having  had  time  to  think  of  it ;  yes." 

"  I  shall  be  glad  to  pick  up  your  crumbs,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious^ 
dryly. 

"  Is  there  not,  or  is  there — if  I  deceive  myself,  tell  me  so,  and 
shorten  my  pain — is  there  not,  or  is  there,  hope  that,  finding 
himself  in  this  new  position,  and  becoming  sensitively  alive  to  the 
awkward  burden  of  explanation,  in  this  quarter,  and  that,  and  the 
other,  with  which  it  would  load  him,  he  avoided  the  awkwardness, 
and  took  to  flight?" 

"  Such  a  thing  might  be,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  pondering. 

*'  Such  a  thing  has  been.  I  have  read  of  cases  in  which  people, 
rather  than  face  a  seven  days'  wonder,  and  have  to  account  for 
themselves  to  the  idle  and  impertinent,  have  taken  themselves 
away,  and  been  long  unheard  of." 

"I  believe  such  things  have  happened,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,. 
pondering  still. 

"  When  I  had,  and  could  have,  no  susjDicion,"  pursued  Jasper, 
eagerly  following  the  new  track,  "  that  the  dear  lost  boy  had  with- 
held anything  from  me — most  of  all,  such  a  leading  matter  as  this 
— what  gleam  of  light  was  there  for  me  in  the  whole  black  sky  ? 
When  I  supposed  that  his  intended  wife  was  here,  and  his  mar- 
riage close  at  hand,  how  could  I  entertain  the  possibility  of  his 
voluntarily  leaving  this  place,  in  a  manner  that  would  be  so 
unaccountable,  capricious,  and  cruel  ?  But  now  that  I  know  what 
you  have  told  me,  is  there  no  little  chink  through  which  day 
pierces  ?  Supposing  him  to  have  disappeared  of  his  own  act,  is 
not  his  disappearance  more  accountable  and  less  cruel  ?  The  fact 
of  his  having  just  parted  from  j^our  ward,  is  in  itself  a  sort  of 
reason  for  his  going  away.  It  does  not  make  his  mysterious 
departure  the  less  cruel  to  me,  it  is  true;  but  it  relieves  it  of 
cruelty  to  her." 

Mr.  Grewgious  could  not  but  assent  to  this,    i 

*'  And  even  as  to  me,"  continued  Jasper,  still  pursuing  the  new 
track,  with  ardour,  and,  as  he  did  so,  brightening  with  hope  :  "  he 
knew  that  you  were  coming  to  me ;  he  knew  that  3'ou  were 
entrusted  to  tell  me  what  you  have  told  me ;  if  your  doing  so 
has  awakened  a  new  train  of  thought  in  my  perplexed  mind,  it 
reasonably  follows  that,  from  the  same  premises,  he  might  have 
foreseen  the  inferences  that  I  should  draw.  Grant  that  he  did 
foresee  them ;  and  even  the  cruelty  to  me — and  who  am  I ! — John 
Jasper,  Music  Master! — vanishes." 


DEVOTED.  12 


Q 


Once  more,  Mr.  Grewgious  could  not  but  assent  to  this. 

"  I  have  had  my  distrusts,  and  terrible  distrusts  they  have 
been,"  said  Jasper  ;  "  but  your  disclosure,  overpowering  as  it  was 
at  first — showing  me  that  my  own  dear  boy  had  had  a  great  dis- 
appointing reservation  from  me,  who  so  fondly  loved  him — kindles 
hope  within  me.  You  do  not  extinguish  it  when  I  state  it,  but 
admit  it  to  be  a  reasonable  hope.  I  begin  to  believe  it  possible :" 
here  he  clasped  his  hands  :  "  that  he  may  have  disapj^eared  from 
among  us  of  his  own  accord,  and  that  he  may  yet  be  alive  and 
well!" 

Mr.  Crisparkle  came  in  at  the  moment.  To  whom  Mr.  Jasper 
repeated  : 

"  I  begin  to  believe  it  possible  that  he  may  have  disappeared  of 
his  own  accord,  and  may  yet  be  alive  and  well !" 

Mr.  Crisparkle  taking  a  seat,  and  enquiring  :  "  Why  so  ?"  Mr, 
Jasper  repeated  the  arguments  he  had  just  set  forth.  If  they  had 
been  less  plausible  than  they  were,  the  good  Minor  Canon's  mind 
would  have  been  in  a  state  of  preparation  to  receive  them,  as^ 
exculpatory  of  his  unfortunate  pupil.  But  he,  too,  did  really 
attach  great  importance  to  the  lost  young  man's  having  been,  so 
immediately  before  his  disappearance,  placed  in  a  new  and  em- 
barrassing relation  towards  every  one  acquainted  with  his  project* 
and  affairs  ;  and  the  fact  seemed  to  him  to  present  the  question  in 
a  new  light. 

"  I  stated  to  Mr.  Sapsea,  when  we  waited  on  him,"  said  Jasper  : 
as  he  really  had  done  :  "  that  there  was  no  quarrel  or  difference 
between  the  two  young  men  at  their  last  meeting.  We  all  know 
that  their  first  meeting  was,  unfortunately,  very  far  from  amicable  ; 
but  all  went  smoothly  and  quietly  when  they  were  last  together 
at  my  house.  My  dear  boy  was  not  in  his  usual  spirits ;  he  Avas 
depressed — I  noticed  that — and  I  am  bound  henceforth  to  dwell 
upon  the  circumstance  the  more,  now  that  I  know  there  was 
a  special  reason  for  his  being  depressed :  a  reason,  moreover, 
which  may  possibly  have  induced  him  to  absent  himself." 

"  I  pray  to  Heaven  it  may  turn  out  so  !"  exclaimed  Mr. 
Crisparkle. 

"  I  pray  to  Heaven  it  may  turn  out  so !"  repeated  Jasper. 
"  You  know — and  Mr.  Grewgious  should  now  know  likewise — 
that  I  took  a  great  prepossession  against  Mr.  Neville  Landless, 
arising  out  of  his  furious  conduct  on  that  first  occasion.  You 
know  that  I  came  to  you,  extremely  apprehensive,  on  my  dear 
boy's  behalf,  of  his  mad  violence.  You  know  that  I  even  entered 
in  my  Diary,  and  showed  the  entry  to  you,  that  I  had  dark  fore- 
bodings against  him.  Mr.  Grewgious  ought  to  be  possessed  of 
the  whole  case.  He  shall  not,  through  any  suppression  of  mine, 
be  informed  of  a  part  of  it,  and  kept  in  ignorance  of  another  part 
of  it.  I  wish  him  to  be  good  enough  to  understand  that  the  com- 
munication he  has  made  to  me  has  hopefully  influenced  my  mind, 
in  spite  of  its  having  been,  before  this  mysterious  occurrence  took 
place,  profoundly  impressed  against  young  Landless," 

This  fairness  troubled  the  Minor  Canon  much.  He  felt  that  he 
was  not  as  open  in  his  own  dealing.     He  charged  against  himself 


124  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

reproachfully  that  he  had  suppressed,  so  far,  the  two  points  of  a 
second  strong  outbreak  of  temper  against  Edwin  Drood  on  the  part 
of  Neville,  and  of  the  passion  of  jealousy  having,  to  his  own  certain 
knowledge,  flamed  up  in  Neville's  breast  against  him.  He  was 
convinced  of  Neville's  innocence  of  any  part  in  the  ugly  disap- 
pearance, and  yet  so  many  little  circumstances  combined  so  wofully 
a2:ainst  him,  that  he  dreaded  to  add  two  more  to  their  cumulative 
weight.  He  was  among  the  truest  of  men  ;  but  he  had  been 
balancing  in  his  mind,  much  to  its  distress,  whether  his  volunteering 
to  tell  these  two  fragments  of  truth,  at  this  time,  would  not 
be  tantamount  to  a  piecing  together  of  falsehood  in  the  place  of 
truth. 

However,  here  was  a  model  before  him.  He  hesitated  no 
longer.  Addressing  Mr.  Grewgious,  as  one  placed  in  authority 
by  the  revelation  he  had  brought  to  bear  on  the  mystery  (and 
surpassingly  Angular  Mr.  Grewgious  became  when  he  found 
himself  in  that  unexpected  position),  Mr.  Crisparkle  bore  his 
testimony  to  Mr.  Jasper's  strict  sense  of  justice,  and,  expressing 
his  absolute  confidence  in  the  complete  clearance  of  his  pupil 
from  the  least  taint  of  suspicion,  sooner  or  later,  avowed  that 
his  confidence  in  that  young  gentleman  had  been  formed,  in  spite 
of  his  confidential  knowledge  that  his  temper  was  of  the  hottest 
and  fiercest,  and  that  it  was  directly  incensed  against  Mr.  Jasper's 
nephew,  by  the  circumstance  of  his  romantically  supposing  him- 
self to  be  enamoured  of  the  same  young  lady.  The  sanguine 
reaction  manifest  in  Mr.  Jasper  was  proof  even  against  this 
unlooked-for  declaration.  It  turned  him  paler ;  but  he  rejDeated 
that  he  would  cling  to  the  hope  he  had  derived  from  Mr.  Grew- 
gious ;  and  that  if  no  trace  of  his  dear  boy  were  found,  leading 
to  the  dreadful  inference  that  he  had  been  made  away  with,  he 
would  cherish  unto  the  last  stretch  of  possibility,  the  idea,  that 
he  might  have  absconded  of  his  own  wild  will. 

Now,  it  fell  out  that  Mr.  Crisparkle,  going  away  from  this  con- 
ference still  very  uneasy  in  his  mind,  and  very  much  troubled  on 
behalf  of  the  young  man  whom  he  held  as  a  kind  of  prisoner  in 
his  own  house,  took  a  memorable  night  walk. 

He  walked  to  Cloisterham  Weir. 

He  often  did  so,  and  consequently  there  was  nothing  remark- 
able in  his  footsteps  tending  that  way.  But  the  preoccupation 
of  his  mind  so  hindered  him  from  planning  any  walk,  or  taking 
heed  of  the  objects  he  passed,  that  his  first  consciousness  of  being 
near  the  Weir,  was  derived  from  the  sound  of  the  falling  water 
close  at  hand. 

"  How  did  I  come  here  !"  was  his  first  thought,  as  he  stopped. 

"  Why  did  I  come  here  !"  was  his  second. 

Then,  he  stood  intently  listening  to  the  water.  A  familiar 
passage  in  his  reading,  about  airy  tongues  that  syllable  men's 
names,  rose  so  unbidden  to  his  ear,  that  he  put  it  from  him  with 
his  hand,  as  if  it  were  tangible. 

It  was  starlight.  The  Weir  was  full  two  miles  above  the  spot 
to  which  the  young  men  had  repaired  to  watch  the  storm.  No 
search  had  been  made  up  here,   for  the  tide  had  been  running 


DEVOTED.  125 

strongly  down,  at  that  time  of  the  night  of  Christmas  Eve,  and 
the  likeliest  places  for  the  discovery  of  a  body,  if  a  fatal  accident 
had  happened  under  such  circumstances,  all  lay — both  when 
the  tide  ebbed,  and  when  it  flowed  again — between  that  sj)ot 
and  the  sea.  The  water  came  over  the  Weir,  with  its  usual  sound 
on  a  cold  starlight  night,  and  little  could  be  seen  of  it ;  yet 
Mr.  Crisparkle  had  a  strange  idea  that  something  unusual  hung 
about  the  place. 

He  reasoned  with  himself :  What  was  it  ?  Where  was  it  ?  Put 
it  to  the  proof.     Which  sense  did  it  address  ? 

No  sense  reported  anything  unusual  there.  He  listened  again, 
and  his  sense  of  hearing  again  checked  the  water  coming  over  the 
Weir,  with  its  usual  sound  on  a  cold  starlight  night. 

Knowing  very  well  that  the  mystery  with  which  his  mind  was 
occupied,  might  of  itself  give  the  place  this  haunted  air,  he  strained 
those  hawk's  eyes  of  his  for  the  correction  of  his  sight.  He  got 
closer  to  the  Weir,  and  peered  at  its  well-known  posts  and  timbers. 
Nothing  in  the  least  unusual  w^as  remotely  shadowed  forth.  But 
he  resolved  that  he  would  come  back  early  in  the  morning. 

The  Weir  ran  through  his  broken  sleep,  all  night,  and  he  was 
back  again  at  sunrise.  It  was  a  bright  frosty  morning.  The 
whole  composition  before  him,  when  he  stood  where  he  had  stood 
last  night,  was  clearly  discernible  in  its  minutest  details.  He  had 
surveyed  it  closely  for  some  minutes,  and  was  about  to  withdraw 
his  eyes,  when  they  were  attracted  keenly  to  one  spot. 

He  turned  his  back  upon  the  Weir,  and  looked  far  away  at 
the  sky,  and  at  the  earth,  and  then  looked  again  at  that  one  spot. 
It  caught  his  sight  again  immediately,  and  he  concentrated  his 
vision  upon  it.  He  could  not  lose  it  now,  though  it  w^as  but  such 
a  s^Deck  in  the  landscape.  It  fascinated  his  sight.  His  hands 
began  plucking  off  his  coat.  For  it  struck  him  that  at  that  spot 
— a  corner  of  the  Weir — something  glistened,  which  did  not  move 
and  come  over  with  the  glistening  water-drops,  but  remained 
stationary. 

He  assured  himself  of  this,  he  threw  oif  his  clothes,  he  plunged 
into  the  icy  water,  and  swam  for  the  spot.  Climbing  the  timbers, 
he  took  from  them,  caught  among  their  interstices  by  its  chain,  a 
gold  watch,  bearing  engraved  upon  its  back,  E.  D. 

He  brought  the  watch  to  the  bank,  swam  to  the  Weir  again, 
climbed  it,  and  dived  off.  He  knew  every  hole  and  corner  of  all 
the  depths,  and  dived  and  dived  and  dived,  until  he  could  bear  the 
cold  no  more.  His  notion  was,  that  he  would  find  the  body ;  h© 
only  found  a  shirt-pin  sticking  in  some  mud  and  ooze. 

With  these  discoveries  he  returned  to  Cloisterham,  and,  taking 
Neville  Landless  with  him,  went  straight  to  the  Mayor.  Mr. 
Jasper  was  sent  for,  the  watch  and  shirt-pin  were  identified, 
Neville  was  detained,  and  the  wildest  frenzy  and  fatuity  of  evil 
report  arose  against  him.  He  was  of  that  vindictive  and  violent 
nature,  that  but  for  his  poor  sister,  who  alone  had  influence  over 
him,  and  out  of  whose  sight  he  was  never  to  be  trusted,  he  would 
be  in  the  daily  commission  of  murder.  Before  coming  to  England 
ho  had  caused  to  be  whij)ped  to  death  sundry  •'  Natives  " — nomadic 


126  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

persons,  encamping  now  in  Asia,  now  in  Africa,  now  in  the  West 
Indies,  and  now  at  tlie  Xorth  Pole — vaguely  supposed  in  Cloister- 
ham  to  be  always  black,  always  of  great  virtue,  always  calling 
themselves  Me,  and  everybody  else  Massa  or  Missie  (according  to 
sex),  and  always  reading  tracts  of  the  obscurest  meaning,  in  broken 
English,  but  always  accurately  understanding  them  in  the  purest 
mother  tongue.  He  had  nearly  brought  Mrs.  Crisparkle's  grey 
hairs  with  sorrow  to  the  grave.  (Those  original  expressions  were 
Mr.  Sapsea's.)  He  had  repeatedly  said  he  would  have  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle's life.  He  had  repeatedly  said  he  would  have  everybody's 
life,  and  become  in  effect  the  last  man.  He  had  been  brought 
down  to  Cloisterham,  from  London,  by  an  eminent  Philanthropist, 
and  why  ?  Because  that  Philanthropist  had  expressly  declared  : 
"  I  owe  it  to  my  fellow-creatures  that  he  should  be,  in  the  words 
of  Bentham,  where  he  is  the  cause  of  the  greatest  danger  to  the 
smallest  number." 

These  dropping  shots  from  the  blunderbusses  of  blunderheaded- 
ness  might  not  have  hit  him  in  a  vital  place.  But  he  had  to  stand 
against  a  trained  and  well-directed  fire  of  arms  of  precision  too. 
He  had  notoriously  threatened  the  lost  young  man,  and  had, 
according  to  the  showing  of  his  own  faithful  friend  and  tutor  who 
strove  so  hard  for  him,  a  cause  of  bitter  animosity  (created  b}' 
himself,  and  stated  by  himself j,  against  that  ill-starred  fellow. 
He  had  armed  himself  with  an  offensive  weapon  for  the  fatal 
night,  and  he  had  gone  off  early  in  the  morning,  after  making 
preparations  for  departure.  He  had  been  found  with  traces  of 
blood  on  him ;  truly,  they  might  have  been  wholly  caused  as 
he  represented,  but  they  might  not,  also.  On  a  search-warrant 
being  issued  for  the  examination  of  his  room,  clothes,  and  so  forth, 
it  was  discovered  that  he  had  destroyed  all  his  papers,  and  re- 
arranged all  his  possessions,  on  the  very  afternoon  of  the  disap- 
pearance. The  watch  found  at  the  Weir  was  challenged  by  the 
jeweller  as  one  he  had  wound  and  set  for  Edwin  Drood,  at  twenty 
minutes  past  two  on  that  same  afternoon ;  and  it  had  run  down, 
before  being  cast  into  the  water ;  and  it  was  the  jeweller's  j^ositive 
opinion  that  it  had  never  been  re-wound.  This  would  justify  the 
hypothesis  that  the  watch  was  taken  from  him  not  long  after  he 
left  Mr.  Jasper's  house  at  midnight,  in  company  with  the  last 
person  seen  with  him,  and  that  it  had  been  thrown  away  after 
being  retained  some  hours.  Why  thrown  away  ?  If  he  had  been 
murdered,  and  so  artfully  disfigured,  or  concealed,  or  both,  as  that 
the  murderer  hoped  identification  to  be  impossible,  except  from 
something  that  he  wore,  assuredly  the  mui'derer  w^ould  seek  to 
remove  from  the  body  the  most  lasting,  the  best  known,  and  the 
most  easily  recognizable,  things  upon  it.  Those  things  would  be 
the  watch  and  shirt-pin.  As  to  his  opportunities  of  casting  them 
into  the  river  ;  if  he  were  the  object  of  these  suspicions,  they  were 
easy.  For,  he  had  been  seen  by  many  persons,  wandering  about  on 
that  side  of  the  city — indeed  on  all  sides  of  it — in  a  miserable  and 
seemingly  half-distracted  manner.  As  to  the  choice  of  the  spot, 
obviously  such  criminating  evidence  had  better  take  its  chance 
of  being  found  anywhere,  rather  than  upon  himself,  or    in  his 


DEVOTED.  127 

possession.  Concerning  the  reconciliatory  nature  of  the  appointed 
meeting  between  the  two  young  men,  very  little  could  be  made  of 
that,  in  young  Landless's  favor  ;  for,  it  distinctly  appeared  that  the 
meeting  originated,  not  with  him,  but  with  Mr.  Crisparkle,  and 
that  it  had  been  urged  on  by  Mr.  Crisparkle  ;  and  who  could  say 
how  unwillingly,  or  in  what  ill-conditioned  mood,  his  enforced 
pupil  had  gone  to  it  ?  The  more  hia  case  was  looked  into,  the 
weaker  it  became  in  every  point.  Even  the  broad  suggestion  that 
the  lost  young  man  had  absconded,  w^as  rendered  additionally 
improbable  on  the  showing  of  the  j^oung  lady  from  whom  he  had 
so  lately  parted ;  for,  what  did  she  say,  with  great  earnestness  and 
sorrow,  when  interrogated  ?  That  he  had,  expressly  and  enthu- 
siastically, planned  with  her,  that  he  w^ould  await  the  arrival  of 
her  guardian,  Mr.  Grewgious.  And  yet,  be  it  observed,  he  disap- 
peared before  that  gentleman  appeared. 

On  the  suspicions  thus  urged  and  supported,  Neville  was  detained 
and  re-detained,  and  the  search  was  pressed  on  every  hand,  and 
JasjDcr  laboured  night  and  day.  But  nothing  more  was  found. 
No  discover}'-  being  made,  which  proved  the  lost  man  to  be  dead, 
it  at  length  became  necessary  to  release  the  person  suspected,  of 
having  made  away  with  him.  Neville  was  set  at  large.  Then, 
a  consequence  ensued  which  Mr.  Crisparkle  had  too  well  foreseen. 
Neville  must  leave  the  place,  for  the  place  shunned  him  and  cast 
him  out.  Even  had  it  not  been  so,  the  dear  old  china  shepherdess 
would  have  worried  herself  to  death  with  fears  for  her  son,  and 
with  general  trepidation  occasioned  by  their  having  such  an 
inmate.  Even  had  that  not  been  so,  the  authority  to  which  the 
Minor  Canon  deferred  of&cially,  would  have  settled  the  point. 

"Mr.  Crisparkle,"  quoth  the  Dean,  "  human  justice  may  err,  but 
it  must  act  according  to  its  lights.  The  days  of  taking  sanctuary 
are  past.     This  young  man  must  not  take  sanctuary  with  us." 

"  You  mean  that  he  must  leave  my  house,  sir  ?" 

"  Mr.  Crisparkle,"  returned  the  prudent  Dean,  "  I  claim  no 
authority  in  your  house.  I  merely  confer  with  you,  on  the  painful 
necessity  you  find  yourself  under,  of  depriving  this  young  man  of 
the  great  advantages  of  your  counsel  and  instruction." 

"  It  is  very  lamentable,  sir,"  Mr.  Crisparkle  represented. 

"  Very  much  so,"  the  Dean  assented. 

"  And  if  it  be  a  necessity — "  Mr.  Crisparkle  faltered. 

"  As  you  unfortunately  find  it  to  be,"  returned  the  Dean. 

Mr.  Crisparkle  bowed  submissively.  "  It  is  hard  to  prejudge 
his  case,  sir,  but  I  am  sensible  that " 

"  Just  so.  Perfectly.  As  you  say,  Mr.  Crisparkle,"  interposed 
the  Dean,  nodding  his  head  smoothl}^,  "  there  is  nothing  else  to  be 
done.  No  doubt,  no  doubt.  There  is  no  alternative,  as  your  good 
sense  has  discovered." 

''  I  am  entirely  satisfied  of  his  perfect  innocence,  sir,  never- 
theless." 

"  We-e-ell !"  said  the  Dean,  in  a  more  confidential  tone,  and 
slightly  glancing  around  him,  "  I  would  not  say  so,  generally. 
Not  generally.  Enough  of  suspicion  attaches  to  him  to —  no,  I 
think  I  would  not  say  so,  generally." 


128  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DEOOD. 

Mr.  Crisparkle  bowed  again. 

"  It  does  not  become  us,  perhaps,"  pursued  the  Dean,  "  to  bo 
partizans.  Not  partizans.  We  clergy  keep  our  hearts  warm  and 
our  heads  cool,  and  we  hold  a  judicious  middle  course." 

"  I  hope  you  do  not  object,  sir,  to  my  having  stated  in  public, 
emphatically,  that  he  will  reappear  here,  whenever  any  new 
suspicion  may  be  awakened,  or  any  new  circumstance  may  come 
to  light  in  this  extraordinary  matter  ?" 

"  Not  at  all,"  returned  the  Dean.  "  And  yet,  do  you  know,  I 
don't  think,"  with  a  very  nice  and  neat  emphasis  on  those  two 
words :  "  I  don't  tJiinh  I  would  state  it,  emphatically.  State  it  ? 
Ye-e-es !  But  emphatically  ?  No-o-o.  I  tliinh  not.  In  point  of 
fact,  Mr.  Crisparkle,  keeping  our  hearts  warm  and  our  heads  cool, 
we  clergy  need  do  nothing  emphatically." 

So,  Minor  Canon  Eow  knew  Neville  Landless  no  more ;  and  he 
went  whithersoever  he  would,  or  could,  with  a  blight  upon  his 
name  and  fame. 

It  was  not  until  then  that  John  Jasper  silently  resumed  his 
place  in  the  choir.  Haggard  and  red-eyed,  his  hopes  plainly  had 
deserted  him,  his  sanguine  mood  was  gone,  and  all  his  worst 
misgivings  had  come  back.  A  day  or  two  afterwards,  while 
unrobing,  he  took  his  Diary  from  a  pocket  of  his  coat,  turned  the 
leaves,  and  with  an  impressive  look,  and  without  one  spoken 
word,  handed  this  entry  to  Mr.  Crisparkle  to  read : 

*'  My  dear  boy  is  murdered.  The  discovery  of  the  watch  and  shirt-pin  convinces 
me  that  he  was  murdered  that  night,  and  that  his  jewellery  was  taken  from  him 
to  prevent  identification  by  its  means.  All  the  delusive  hopes  I  had  founded  on 
his  separation  from  his  betrothed  wife,  I  give  to  the  winds.  They  perish  before 
this  fatal  discovery.  I  now  swear,  and  record  the  oath  on  this  page,  That  I 
nevermore  will  discuss  this  mystery  with  any  human  creature,  until  I  hold  the 
clue  to  it  in  my  hand.  That  I  never  will  relax  in  my  secresy  or  in  my  search.  That 
I  will  fasten  the  crime  of  the  murder  of  my  dear  dead  boy,  upon  the  murderer. 
And  That  I  devote  myself  to  his  destruction." 


THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD.  129 


CHAPTEE  XVII. 

PHILANTHROPY,    PROFESSIONAL    AND   UNPROFESSIONAL. 

Full  half  a  year  had  come  and  gone,  and  Mr.  Crisparkle  sat  in  a 
•waiting-room  in  the  London  chief  offices  of  the  Haven  of  Philan- 
thropy, until  he  could  have  audience  of  Mr.  Honeythunder. 

In  his  college-days  of  athletic  exercises,  Mr.  Crisparkle  had 
known  professors  of  the  Noble  Art  of  fisticuffs,  and  had  attended 
two  or  three  of  their  gloved  gatherings.  He  had  now  an  oppor- 
tunity of  observing  that  as  to  the  phrenological  formation  of  the 
backs  of  their  heads,  the  Professing  Philanthropists  were  uncom- 
monly like  the  Pugilists.  In  the  development  of  all  those  organs 
which  constitute,  or  attend,  a  propensity  to  "  pitch  into "  your 
fellow-creatures,  the  Philanthropists  were  remarkably  favored. 
There  were  several  Professors  passing  in  and  out,  with  exactly  the 
aggressive  air  upon  them  of  being  ready  for  a  turn-up  with  any 
Novice  who  might  happen  to  be  on  hand,  that  Mr.  Crisparkle  well 
remembered  in  the  circles  of  the  Fanc}".  Preparations  were  in 
progress  for  a  moral  little  Mill  somewhere  on  the  rural  circuit,  and 
other  Professors  were  backing  this  or  that  Heavy-Weight  as  good 
for  such  or  such  speech-making  hits,  so  very  much  after  the  manner 
of  the  sporting  publicans  that  the  intended  Eesolutions  might  have 
been  Pounds.  In  an  official  manager  of  these  displays  much 
celebrated  for  his  platform  tactics,  Mr.  Crisparkle  recognised  (in  a 
suit  of  black)  the  counterpart  of  a  deceased  benefactor  of  his 
species,  an  eminent  public  character,  once  known  to  fame  as  Frosty- 
faced  Fogo,  who  in  days  of  yore  superintended  the  formation  of 
the  magic  circle  with  the  ropes  and  stakes.  There  were  only 
three  conditions  of  resemblance  wanting  between  these  Professors 
and  those.  Firstl}-,  the  Philanthropists  were  in  very  bad  training  : 
much  too  fleshy,  and  presenting,  both  in  face  and  figure,  a  super- 
abundance of  what  is  known  to  Pugilistic  Experts  as  Suet 
Pudding.  Secondly,  the  Philanthropists  had  not  the  good  temper 
of  the  Pugilists,  and  used  worse  language.  Thirdl}^  their  fighting 
code  stood  in  great  need  of  revision,  as  empowering  them  not 
only  to  bore  their  man  to  the  ropes,  but  to  bore  him  to  the  confines 
of  distraction ;  also  to  hit  him  when  he  was  down,  hit  him  any- 
where and  anyhow,  kick  him,  stamp  upon  him,  gouge  him,  and 
maul  him  behind  his  back  without  mercy.  In  these  last  particulars 
the  Professors  of  the  Noble  Art  were  much  nobler  than  the  Pro- 
fessors of  Philanthropy. 

Mr.  Crisparkle  was  so  completely  lost  in  musing  on  these 
similarities  and  dissimilarities,  at  the  same  time  watching  the 
crowd  which  came  and  went  by,  always,  as  it  seemed,  on  errands 
of  antagonistically  snatching  something  from  somebody,  and  never 
giving  anything  to  anybody :  that  his  name  was  called  before 
he  heard  it.  On  his  at  length  responding,  he  was  shown  by 
■a  miserably  shabby  and  underpaid  stipendiary  Philanthropist 
(who  could  hardly  have  done  worse  if  he  had  taken  service  with 


180  THE   MYSTEKY   OF  EDWIN   DROOD. 

a  declared  enemy  of  the  human  race)  to  Mr.  Honeythunder's 
room. 

"  Sir,"  said  Mr.  Honey  thunder,  in  his  tremendous  voice,  like  a 
schoolmaster  issuing  orders  to  a  boy  of  whom  he  had  a  bad  opinion, 
"  sit  down." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  seated  himself. 

Mr.  Honeythunder,  having  signed  the  remaining  few  score  of  a 
few  thousand  circulars,  calling  upon  a  corresponding  number  of 
families  without  means  to  come  forward,  stump  up  instantly,  and 
be  Philanthropists,  or  go  to  the  Devil,  another  shabby  stipendiary 
Philanthropist  (highly  disinterested,  if  in  earnest)  gathered  these 
into  a  basket  and  walked  off  with  them. 

"Now,  Mr.  Crisparkle,"  said  Mr.  Honeythunder,  turning  his 
chair  half  round  towards  him  when  they  were  alone,  and  squaring 
his  arms  with  his  hands  on  his  knees,  and  his  brows  knitted,  as  if 
he  added,  I  am  going  to  make  short  work  of  you :  "  Now,  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle, we  entertain  different  views,  you  and  I,  sir,  of  the  sanctity 
of  human  life." 

"  Do  we  ?"  returned  the  Minor  Canon. 

"  We  do,  sir." 

"  Might  I  ask  you,"  said  the  Minor  Canon :  "  what  are  your 
views  on  that  subject  ?" 

"  That  human  life  is  a  thing  to  be  held  sacred,  sir." 

"  Might  I  ask  you,"  pursued  the  Minor  Canon  as  before  :  "  what 
you  suppose  to  be  my  views  on  that  subject  ?" 

"By  George,  sir!"  returned  the  Philanthropist,  squaring  his 
arms  still  more,  as  he  frowned  on  Mr.  Crisparkle :  "  they  are  best 
known  to  yourself." 

"Keadily  admitted.  But  you  began  by  saying  that  we  took 
different  views,  you  know.  Therefore  (or  you  could  not  say  so) 
you  must  have  set  up  some  views  as  mine.  Pray,  what  views 
liave  you  set  up  as  mine  ?" 

"  Here  is  a  man — and  a  young  man,"  said  Mr.  Honeythunder, 
as  if  that  made  the  matter  infinitely  worse,  and  he  could  have 
easily  borne  the  loss  of  an  old  one :  "  swept  off  the  face  of  the 
earth  by  a  deed  of  violence.     What  do  you  call  that  ?" 

"  Murder,"  said  the  Minor  Canon. 

"  What  do  you  call  the  doer  of  that  deed,  sir  ?" 

"  A  murderer,"  said  the  Minor  Canon. 

*'  I  am  glad  to  hear  you  admit  so  much,  sir,"  retorted  Mr.  Honey- 
thunder, in  his  most  offensive  manner ;  "  and  I  candidly  tell  you 
that  I  didn't  expect  it."  Here  he  lowered  heavily  at  Mr.  Crisparkle 
again. 

"  Be  so  good  as  to  explain  what  you  mean  by  those  very  un- 
justifiable expressions." 

"  I  don't  sit  here,  sir,"  returned  the  Philanthropist,  raising  his 
voice  to  a  roar,  "  to  be  browbeaten." 

"  As  the  only  other  person  present,  no  one  can  possibly  know 
that  better  than  I  do,"  returned  the  Minor  Canon  very  quietly. 
*'  But  I  interrupt  your  explanation." 

"  Murder !"  proceeded  Mr.  Honeythunder,  in  a  kind  of  boisterous 
reverie,  with  his  platform  folding  of  his  arms,  and  his  platform 


PHHANTHEOPY,    PKOFESSIONAL   AND   UNPROFESSIONAL.         131 

nod  of  abiiorreiit  reflection  after  each  short  sentiment  of  a  word. 
*'  Bloodshed  !  Abel !  Cain  !  I  hold  no  terms  with  Cain.  T  repudiate 
with  a  shndder  the  red  hand  when  it  is  offered  me." 

Instead  of  instantly  leaping  into  his  chair  and  cheering  himself 
hoarse,  as  the  Brotherhood  in  public  meeting  assembled  would 
infallibly  have  done  on  this  cue,  Mr.  Crisparkle  merely  reversed 
the  quiet  crossing  of  his  legs,  and  said  mildly :  "  Don't  let  me 
interrupt  your  explanation — when  you  begin  it." 

"  The  Commandments  say  no  murder.  NO  murder,  sir !"  pro- 
ceeded Mr.  Honeythunder,  platformally  pausing  as  if  he  took 
Mr.  Crisparkle  to  task  for  having  distinctly  asserted  that  they 
said,  You  may  do  a  little  murder  and  then  leave  off. 

"  And  they  also  say,  you  shall  bear  no  false  witness,"  observed 
Mr.  Crisparkle. 

"  Enough !"  bellowed  Mr.  Honeythunder,  with  a  solemnity  and 
severity  that  would  have  brought  the  house  down  at  a  meeting, 
*'  E — e — nough !  My  late  wards  being  now  of  age,  and  I  being 
released  from  a  trust  which  I  cannot  contemplate  without  a  thrill 
of  horror,  there  are  the  accounts  which  you  have  undertaken  to 
accept  on  their  behalf,  and  there  is  a  statement  of  the  balance 
which  you  have  undertaken  to  receive,  and  which  you  cannot 
receive  too  soon.  And  let  me  tell  you,  sir,  I  wish,  that  as  a 
man  and  a  Minor  Canon,  you  were  better  employed,"  with  a  nod. 
"  Better  employed,"  with  another  nod.  "  Bet — ter  em — ployed  !" 
with  another  and  the  three  nods  added  up. 

Mr.  Crisparkle  rose :  a  little  heated  in  the  face,  but  with  perfect 
command  of  himself. 

"  Mr.  Honeythunder,"  he  said,  taking  up  the  papers  referred  to  : 
"  my  being  better  or  worse  employed  than  I  am  at  present  is  a 
matter  of  taste  and  opinion.  You  might  think  me  better  employed 
in  enrolling  myself  a  member  of  your  Society." 

"  Ay,  indeed,  sir !"  retorted  Mr.  Honeythunder,  shaking  his 
head  in  a  threatening  manner.  "  It  would  have  been  better  for  you 
if  you  had  done  that  long  ago !" 

"  I  think  otherwise." 

"  Or,"  said  Mr.  Honeythunder,  shaking  his  head  again,  "  I 
might  think  one  of  your  profession  better  employed  in  devoting 
himself  to  the  discovery  and  punishment  of  guilt  than  in  leaving 
that  duty  to  be  undertaken  by  a  layman." 

"  I  may  regard  my  profession  from  a  point  of  view  which  teaches 
me  that  its  first  duty  is  towards  those  who  are  in  necessity  and 
tribulation,  who  are  desolate  and  oppressed,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle. 
"  However,  as  I  have  quite  clearly  satisfied  myself  that  it  is  no  part 
of  my  profession  to  make  professions,  I  say  no  more  of  that.. 
But  I  owe  it  to  Mr.  Neville,  and  to  Mr.  Neville's  sister  (and  in  a 
much  lower  degree  to  myself),  to  say  to  you  that  I  know  I  was  in 
the  full  possession  and  understanding  of  Mr.  Neville's  mind 
and  heart  at  the  time  of  this  occurrence ;  and  that,  without  in  the 
least  coloring  or  concealing  what  was  to  be  deplored  in  him  and 
required  to  be  corrected,  I  feel  certain  that  his  tale  is  true. 
Feeling  that  certainty,  I  befriend  him.  As  long  as  that  certainty 
shall  last  I  will  befriend  him.     And  if  any  consideration  could 

K  2 


132  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN  DROOD. 

shake  me  in  this  resolve,  I  should  he  so  ashamed  of  myself  for  my 
meanness  that  no  man's  good  opinion — no,  nor  no  woman's — so 
gained,  could  compensate  me  for  the  loss  of  my  own." 

Good  fellow !  Manly  fellow !  And  he  was  so  modest,  too. 
There  was  no  more  self-assertion  in  the  Minor  Canon  than  in  the 
schoolboy  who  had  stood  in  the  breezy  playing-fields  keeping  a 
wicket.  He  was  simply  and  staunchly  true  to  his  duty  alike  in 
the  large  case  and  in  the  small.  So  all  true  souls  ever  are.  So 
every  true  soul  ever  was,  ever  is,  and  ever  will  be.  There  is 
nothing  little  to  the  really  great  in  spirit. 

"  Then  who  do  you  make  out  did  the  deed  ?"  asked  Mr.  Honey- 
thunder,  turning  on  him  abruptly. 

"  Heaven  forbid,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  that  in  my  desire  to  clear 
one  man  I  should  lightly  criminate  another !      I  accuse  no  one." 

"  Tcha  !"  ejaculated  Mr.  Honey  thunder  with  great  disgust ;  for 
this  was  by  no  means  the  principle  on  which  the  Philanthropic 
Brotherhood  usually  proceeded.  "  And,  sir,  you  are  not  a  disin- 
terested witness,  we  must  bear  in  mind." 

"How  am  I  an  interested  one?"  inquired  Mr.  Crisparkle, 
smiling  innocently,  at  a  loss  to  imagine. 

"  There  was  a  certain  stipend,  sir,  paid  to  you  for  your  pupil, 
which  may  have  warped  your  judgment  a  bit,"  said  Mr.  Honey- 
thunder,  coarsely. 

"  Perhaps  I  expect  to  retain  it  still  ?"  Mr.  Crisparkle  returned, 
enlightened  ;  "  do  you  mean  that  too  ?" 

"  Well,  sir,"  returned  the  professional  Philanthropist,  getting 

^     up,  and  thrusting  his  hands  down  into  his  trousers  pockets;  "I 

don't  go  about  measuring  people  for  caps.     If  people  find  I  have 

any  about  me  that  fit  'em,  they  can  put  'em  on  and  wear  'em,  if 

they  like.     That's  their  look  out :  not  mine." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  eyed  him  with  a  just  indignation,  and  took  him 
to  task  thus : 

"  Mr.  Honey  thunder,  I  hoped  when  I  came  in  here  that  I  might 
be  under  no  necessity  of  commenting  on  the  introduction  of  plat- 
form manners  or  platform  manoeuvres  among  the  decent  forbear- 
ances of  private  life.  But  you  have  given  me  such  a  specimen  of 
both,  that  I  should  be  a  fit  subject  for  both  if  I  remained  silent 
respecting  them.     They  are  detestable." 

"  They  don't  suit  you,  I  dare  say,  sir." 

"They  are,"  repeated  Mr.  Crisparkle,  without  noticing  the 
interruption,  "  detestable.  They  violate  equally  the  justice  that 
should  belong  to  Christians,  and  the  restraints  that  should  belong 
to  gentlemen.  You  assume  a  great  crime  to  have  been  com- 
mitted by  one  whom  I,  acquainted  with  the  attendant  circum- 
stances, and  having  numerous  reasons  on  my  side,  devoutly 
believe  to  be  innocent  of  it.  Because  I  differ  from  you  on 
that  vital  point,  what  is  your  platform  resource  ?  Instantly 
to  turn  upon  me,  charging  that  I  have  no  sense  of  the  enormity 
of  the  crime  itself,  but  am  its  aider  and  abettor  !  So,  another 
time — taking  me  as  representing  your  opponent  in  other  cases — 
you  set  up  a  platform  credulity:  a  moved  and  seconded  and 
carried  unanimously  profession  of  faith  in  some  ridiculous  delusion 


PHILANTHROPY,    PROFESSIONAL   AND   UNPROFESSIONAL.         133 

or  miscliievous  imposition.  I  decline  to  believe  it,  and  you  fall 
back  upon  your  platform  resource  of  proclaiming  that  I  believe 
nothing ;  that  because  I  will  not  bow  down  to  a  false  God  of  our 
making,  I  deny  the  true  God !  Another  time,  you  make  the  plat- 
form discovery  that  War  is  a  calamity,  and  you  propose  to  abolish 
it  by  a  string  of  twisted  resolutions  tossed  into  the  air  like  the  tail 
of  a  kite.  I  do  not  admit  the  discovery  to  be  yours  in  the  least, 
and  I  have  not  a  grain  of  faith  in  your  remedy.  Again,  your 
platform  resource  of  representing  me  as  revelling  in  the  horrors  of 
a  battle  field  like  a  fiend  incarnate !  Another  time,  in  another  of 
your  undiscriminating  platform  rushes,  you  would  punish  the 
sober  for  the  drunken.  I  claim  consideration  for  the  comfort,  con- 
venience, and  refreshment,  of  the  sober ;  and  you  presently  make 
platform  proclamation  that  1  have  a  depraved  desire  to  turn 
Heaven's  creatures  into  swine  and  wild  beasts !  In  all  such  cases 
your  movers,  and  your  seconders,  and  joiir  supporters — your 
regular  Professors  of  all  degrees — run  amuck  like  so  many  mad 
Malays ;  habitually  attributing  the  lowest  and  basest  motives  with 
the  utmost  recklessness  (let  me  call  your  attention  to  a  recent 
instance  in  yourself  for  which  you  should  blush),  and  quoting 
figures  which  you  know  to  be  as  wilfully  onesided  as  a  statement 
of  any  complicated  account  that  should  be  all  Creditor  side  and  no 
Debtor,  or  all  Debtor  side  and  no  Creditor.  Therefore  it  is, 
Mr.  Honeythunder,  that  I  consider  the  platform  a  sufficiently  bad 
example  and  a  sufficiently  bad  school,  even  in  public  life ;  but  hold 
that,  carried  into  private  life,  it  becomes  an  unendurable  nuipance." 

"  These  are  strong  words,  sir  !"  exclaimed  the  Philanthropist. 

"  I  hope  so,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle.     "  Good-morning." 

He  walked  out  of  the  Haven  at  a  great  rate,  but  soon  fell  into  his 
regular  brisk  pace,  and  soon  had  a  smile  upon  his  face  as  he  went 
along,  wondering  what  the  china  shepherdess  would  have  said  if 
she  had  seen  him  pounding  Mr.  Honeythunder  in  the  late  little 
lively  affair.  For  Mr.  Crisparkle  had  just  enough  of  harmless 
vanity  to  hope  that  he  had  hit  hard,  and  to  glow  with  the  belief 
that  he  had  trimmed  the  Philanthropic  jacket  pretty  handsomely. 

He  took  himself  to  Staple  Inn,  but  not  to  P.  J.  T.  and  Mr. 
Grewgious.  Full  many  a  creaking  stair  he  climbed  before  he 
reached  some  attic  rooms  in  a  corner,  turned  the  latch  of  their 
unbolted  door,  and  stood  beside  the  table  of  Neville  Landless. 

An  air  of  retreat  and  solitude  hung  about  the  rooms,  and 
about  their  inhabitant.  He  was  much  worn,  and  so  were  they. 
Their  sloping  ceilings,  cumbrous  rusty  locks  and  grates,  and 
heavy  wooden  bins  and  beams,  slowly  mouldering  withal,  had 
a  prisonous  look,  and  he  had  the  haggard  face  of  a  prisoner.  Yet 
the  sunlight  shone  in  at  the  ugly  garret  window  which  had  a 
penthouse  to  itself  thrust  out  among  the  tiles  ;  and  on  the  cracked 
and  smoke-blackened  parapet  beyond,  some  of  the  deluded  sparrows 
of  the  place  rheumatically  hopped,  like  little  feathered  cripples 
who  had  left  their  crutches  in  their  nests ;  and  there  was  a  play 
of  living  leaves  at  hand  that  changed  the  air,  and  made  an  im- 
perfect sort  of  music  in  it  that  would  have  been  melody  in  the 
country. 


134  THE   MYSTEEY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

The  rooms  were  sparely  furnislied,  but  with  good  store  of  "books. 
Everything  expressed  the  abode  of  a  poor  student.  That  Mr. 
Crisparkle  had  been  either  chooser,  lender,  or  donor  of  the  books, 
or  that  he  combined  the  three  characters,  might  have  been  easily 
seen  in  the  friendly  beam  of  his  eyes  upon  them  as  he  entered. 

"  How  goes  it,  Neville  ?" 

"  I  am  in  good  heart,  Mr.  Crisparkle,  and  working  away." 

"  I  wish  your  eyes  were  not  quite  so  large,  and  not  quite  so 
bright,"  said  the  Minor  Canon,  slowly  releasing  the  hand  he  had 
taken  in  his. 

"  They  brighten  at  the  sight  of  you,"  returned  Neville. 
"If  you  were  to  fall  away  from  me,  they  would  soon  be  dull 
enough." 

"  ifiiUy,  rally !"  urged  the  other,  in  a  stimulating  tone.  "  Fight 
for  it,  Neville !" 

"  If  I  were  dying,  I  feel  as  if  a  word  from  you  would  rally  me ; 
if  my  pulse  had  stopped,  I  feel  as  if  your  touch  would  make  it 
beat  again,"  said  Neville.  "  But  I  have  rallied,  and  am  doing 
famously." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  turned  him  with  his  face  a  little  more  towards 
the  light. 

"  I  want  to  see  a  ruddier  touch  here,  Neville,"  he  said,  indicating 
his  own  healthy  cheek  by  way  of  pattern ;  "  I  want  more  sun  to 
shine  upon  you." 

Neville  drooped  suddenly  as  he  replied  in  a  lowered  voice :  "  I 
am  not  hardy  enough  for  that,  yet.  I  may  become  so,  but  I  cannot 
bear  it  yet.  If  you  had  gone  through  those  Cloisterham  streets 
as  I  did ;  if  you  had  seen,  as  I  did,  those  averted  eyes,  and  the 
better  sort  of  people  silently  giving  me  too  much  room  to  pass, 
that  I  might  not  touch  them  or  come  near  them,  you  wouldn't 
think  it  quite  unreasonable  that  I  cannot  go  about  in  the  day- 
light." 

"  My  poor  fellow !"  said  the  Minor  Canon,  in  a  tone  so  purely 
sympathetic  that  the  young  man  caught  his  hand  :  "  I  never  said 
it  was  unreasonable :  never  thought  so.  But  I  should  like  you  to 
do  it." 

"  And  that  would  give  me  the  strongest  motive  to  do  it.  But  I 
cannot  yet.  I  cannot  persuade  myself  that  the  eyes  of  even  the 
stream  of  strangers  I  pass  in  this  vast  city  look  at  me  without 
suspicion.  I  feel  marked  and  tainted,  even  when  I  go  out — as  I 
do  only — at  night.  But  the  darkness  covers  me  then,  and  I  take 
courage  from  it." 

Mr.  Crisparkle  laid  a  hand  upon  his  shoulder,  and  stood  looking 
down  at  him. 

*'  If  I  could  have  changed  my  name,"  said  Neville,  "  I  would 
have  done  so.  But  as  you  wisely  pointed  out  to  me,  I  can't  do 
that,  for  it  would  look  like  guilt.  If  I  could  have  gone  to 
some  distant  place,  I  might  have  found  relief  in  that,  but  the 
thing  is  not  to  be  thought  of,  for  the  same  reason.  Hiding  and 
escaping  would  be  the  construction  in  either  case.  It  seems  a 
little  hard  to  be  so  tied  to  a  stake,  and  innocent;  but  I  don't 
complain." 


PHILANTHROPY,    PEOFESSIONAL   AND   UNPROFESSIONAL.  135 

"  And  you  must  expect  no  miracle  to  help  you,  Keville,"  said 
Mr.  Crisparkle,  compassionately. 

"  No,  sir,  I  know  that.  The  ordinary  fulness  of  time  and  cir- 
cumstance is  all  I  have  to  trust  to," 

"  It  will  right  you  at  last,  Xeville." 

"  So  I  believe,  and  I  hope  I  may  live  to  know  it." 

But  perceiving  that  the  despondent  mood  into  which  he  was 
falling  cast  a  shadow  on  the  Minor  Canon,  and  (it  may  be)  feeling 
that  the  broad  hand  upon  his  shoulder  was  not  then  quite  as 
steady  as  its  own  natural  strength  had  rendered  it  when  it  first 
touched  him  just  now,  he  brightened  and  said  : 

"  Excellent  circumstances  for  study,  anyhow !  and  you  know, 
Mr.  Crisparkle,  what  need  I  have  of  study  in  all  waj's.  Not  to 
mention  that  you  have  advised  me  to  studj^  for  the  difiicult  pro- 
fession of  the  law,  specially,  and  that  of  course  I  am  guiding 
myself  by  the  advice  of  such  a  friend  and  helper.  Such  a  good 
friend  and  helper !" 

He  took  the  fortifying  hand  from  his  shoulder,  and  kissed  it. 
Mr.  Crisparkle  beamed  at  the  books,  but  not  so  brightly  as  when 
he  had  entered. 

*'  I  gather  from  your  silence  on  the  subject  that  my  late  guardian 
is  adverse,  Mr.  Crisparkle  ?" 

The  Minor  Canon  answered :  "  Your  late  guardian  is  a — a  most 
unreasonable  person,  and  it  signifies  nothing  to  any  reasonable 
person  whether  he  is  adJverse  or  jyerverse,  or  the  reverse." 

"  Well  for  me  that  I  have  enough  with  economy  to  live  upon," 
sighed  Neville,  half  wearily  and  half  cheerily,  "  while  I  wait  to 
be  learned,  and  wait  to  be  righted!  Else  I  might  have  proved 
the  proverb  that  while  the  grass  grows,  the  steed  starves  !" 

He  opened  some  books  as  he  said  it,  and  was  soon  immersed  in 
their  interleaved  and  annotated  passages,  while  Mr.  Crisparkle  sat 
beside  him,  expounding,  correcting,  and  advising.  The  Minor 
Canon's  cathedral  duties  made  these  visits  of  his  difficult  to 
accomplish,  and  only  to  be  compassed  at  intervals  of  many  weeks. 
But  they  were  as  serviceable  as  they  were  precious  to  Neville 
Landless. 

When  they  had  got  through  such  studies  as  they  had  in  hand, 
they  stood  leaning  on  the  window-sill,  and  looking  down  upon  the 
patch  of  garden.  "  Next  week,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  jovl  will 
cease  to  be  alone,  and  will  have  a  devoted  companion." 

"  And  yet,"  returned  Neville,  "  this  seems  an  uncongenial  place 
to  bring  my  sister  to  !" 

"  I  don't  think  so,"  said  the  Minor  Canon.  "  There  is  duty  to 
be  done  here  ;  and  there  are  womanly  feeling,  sense,  and  courage 
w^anted  here." 

"  I  meant,"  explained  Neville,  "  that  the  surroundings  are  so 
dull  and  unwomanly,  and  that  Helena  can  have  no  suitable  friend 
or  society  here." 

"You  have  only  to  remember,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  that  you 
^re  here  yourself,  and  that  she  has  to  draw  you  into  the  sunlight." 

They  were  silent  for  a  little  while,  and  then  Mr.  Crisparkle 
began  anew. 


136        '     THE  MYSTERY  OF  ED^^^N  DROOD. 

"  When  we  first  spoke  together,  Neville,  you  told  me  that  your 
sister  had  risen  out  of  the  disadvantages  of  your  past  lives  a& 
superior  to  you  as  the  tower  of  Cloisterham  Cathedral  is  higher 
than  the  chimneys  of  Minor  Canon  Corner.  Do  you  remember 
that  ?" 

"  Eight  well !" 

"  I  was  inclined  to  think  it  at  the  time  an  enthusiastic  fligrht. 
No  matter  what  I  think  it  now.  What  I  would  emphasize  is,  that 
under  the  head  of  Pride  your  sister  is  a  great  and  opportune 
example  to  you." 

"  Under  all  heads  that  are  included  in  the  composition  of  a  fine 
character,  she  is." 

"  Say  so ;  but  take  this  one.  Your  sister  has  learnt  how  to 
govern  what  is  proud  in  her  nature.  She  can  dominate  it  even 
when  it  is  wounded  through  her  sympathy  with  you.  No  doubt 
she  has  suffered  deeply  in  those  same  streets  where  you  suffered 
deeply.  No  doubt  her  life  is  darkened  by  the  cloud  that  darkens 
yours.  But  bending  her  pride  into  a  grand  composure  that  is  not 
haughty  or  aggressive,  but  is  a  sustained  confidence  in  you  and 
in  the  truth,  she  has  won  her  way  through  those  streets  until  she 
passes  along  them  as  high  in  the  general  respect  as  any  one  who 
treads  them.  Every  day  and  hour  of  her  life  since  Edwil^ 
Drood's  disappearance,  she  has  faced  malignity  and  folly — for  you 
— as  only  a  brave  nature  well  directed  can.  So  it  will  be  witli- 
her  to  the  end.  Another  and  weaker  kind  of  pride  might  sink 
broken-hearted,  but  never  such  a  pride  as  hers  :  which  knows  no 
shrinking,  and  can  get  no  mastery  over  her." 

The  pale  cheek  beside  him  flushed  under  the  comparison  and  the- 
hint  imjolied  in  it.  "  I  will  do  all  I  can  to  imitate  her,"  said 
Neville. 

"  Do  so,  and  be  a  truly  brave  man  as  she  is  a  truly  brave 
woman,"  answered  Mr.  Crisparkle,  stoutly.  "  It  is  growing  dark. 
Will  you  go  my  way  with  me,  when  it  is  quite  dark  ?  Mind  I 
It  is  not  I  who  wait  for  darkness." 

Neville  replied  that  he  would  accompany  him  directly.  But 
Mr.  Crisparkle  said  he  had  a  moment's  call  to  make  on  Mr.  Grew- 
gious  as  an  act  of  courtesy,  and  would  run  across  to  that  gentle- 
man's chambers,  and  rejoin  Neville  on  his  own  doorstep  if  ho 
would  come  down  there  to  meet  him. 

Mr.  Grewgious,  bolt  upright  as  usual,  sat  taking  his  wine  in  the 
dusk  at  his  open  window ;  his  wineglass  and  decanter  on  the  round 
table  at  his  elbow ;  himself  and  his  legs  on  the  windowseat ;  only 
one  hinge  in  his  whole  body,  like  a  bootjack. 

"  How  do  you  do,  reverend  sir  ?"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  with 
abundant  offers  of  hospitality  which  were  as  cordially  declined  as 
made.  "  And  how  is  your  charge  getting  on  over  the  way  in  the 
set  that  I  had  the  pleasure  of  recommending  to  you  as  vacant  and 
eligible  ?" 

Mr.  Crisparkle  replied  suitably. 

"I  am  glad  you  approve  of  them,"  said  Mr,  Grewgious^ 
"  because  I  entertain  a  sort  of  fancy  for  having  him  under  my 
eye." 


PHILANTHROPY,   PROFESSIONAL   AND   UNPROFESSIONAL.  137 

As  Mr.  Grewgioiis  had  to  turn  his  eye  up  considerably,  before 
he  could  see  the  chambers,  the  phrase  was  to  be  taken  figuratively 
and  not  literally. 

"  And  how  did  you  leave  Mr.  Jasper,  reverend  sir  ?"  said  Mr» 
Grewgious. 

Mr.  Crisparkle  had  left  him  pretty  Avell. 

"  And  where  did  you  leave  Mr.  Jasper,  reverend  sir  ?" 

Mr.  Crisparkle  had  left  him  at  Cloisterham. 

"  And  when  did  you  leave  Mr.  Jasper,  reverend  sir  ?" 

That  morning. 

"  Umps  !"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  He  didn't  say  he  was  comings 
perhaps  ?" 

"  Coming  where  ?" 

"  Anywhere,  for  instance  ?"  said  Mr.  Grewgious. 

"  No." 

"  Because  here  he  is,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  who  had  asked  all 
these  questions,  with  his  preoccujDied  glance  directed  out  at 
window.     "  And  he  don't  look  agreeable,  does  he  ?" 

Mr.  Crisparkle  was  craning  towards  the  window,  when  Mr. 
Grewgious  added : 

"  If  3'ou  will  kindly  step  round  here  behind  me,  in  the  gloom  of 
the  room,  and  will  cast  your  eye  at  the  second-floor  landing- 
window,  in  yonder  house,  I  think  you  will  hardly  fail  to  see  a 
slinking  individual  in  whom  I  recognise  our  local  friend." 

"  You  are  right !"  cried  Mr.  Crisparkle. 

"  Umps !"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  Then  he  added,  turning  his 
face  so  abruptly  that  his  head  nearly  came  into  collision  with 
Mr.  Crisparkle's :  "  what  should  you  say  that  our  local  friend  was 
up  to?" 

The  last  passage  he  had  been  shown  in  the  Diary  returned 
on  Mr.  Crisparkle's  mind  with  the  force  of  a  strong  recoil,  and  he 
asked  Mr.  Grewgious  if  he  thought  it  possible  that  Neville  was  to 
be  harassed  by  the  keeping  of  a  watch  upon  him  ? 

"  A  watch,"  repeated  Mr,  Grewgious,  musingly.     "  Ay  !" 

"  Which  would  not  only  of  itself  haunt  and  torture  his  Kfo," 
said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  warmly,  "  but  would  expose  him  to  the 
torment  of  a  perpetually  reviving  suspicion,  whatever  he  might 
do,  or  wherever  he  might  go  ?" 

"  Ay !"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  musingly  still.  "  Do  I  see  him 
waiting  for  you  ?" 

"  No  doubt  you  do." 

"  Then  ivould  you  have  the  goodness  to  excuse  my  getting  up  to 
see  you  out,  and  to  go  out  to  join  him,  and  to  go  the  way  that 
you  were  going,  and  to  take  no  notice  of  our  local  friend  ?"  said 
Mr.  Grewgious.  "  I  entertain  a  sort  of  fancy  for  having  him  under 
my  eye  to-night,  do  you  know  ?" 

Mr.  Crisparkle,  with  a  significant  nod,  complied,  and,  rejoin- 
ing Neville,  went  away  with  him.  They  dined  together,  and 
parted  at  the  yet  unfinished  and  undeveloped  railway  station  : 
Mr.  Crisparkle  to  get  home;  Seville  to  walk  the  streets,  cross 
the  bridges,  make  a  wide  round  of  the  city  in  the  friendly  dark- 
ness, and  tire  himself  out. 


138  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

It  was  midnight  when  he  returned  from  his  solitary  expedition, 
and  climbed  his  staircase.  The  night  was  hot,  and  the  windows  of 
the  staircase  were  all  wide  open.  Coming  to  the  top,  it  gave  him 
ii  passing  chill  of  surprise  (there  being  no  rooms  but  his  up  there) 
to  find  a  stranger  sitting  on  the  window-sill,  more  after  the 
manner  of  a  venturesome  glazier  than  an  amateur  ordinarily 
careful  of  his  neck ;  in  fact,  so  much  more  outside  the  window 
than  inside,  as  to  suggest  the  thought  that  he  must  have  come  up 
by  the  water-spout  instead  of  the  stairs. 

The  stranger  said  nothing  until  Neville  put  his  key  in  his 
door ;  then,  seeming  to  make  sure  of  his  identity  from  the  action, 
he  spoke : 

"  I  beg  your  pardon,"  he  said,  coming  from  the  window  with 
a  frank  and  smiling  air,  and  a  prepossessing  address  ;  "  the 
beans." 

Neville  was  quite  at  a  loss. 

"  Kunners,"  said  the  visitor.  "  Scarlet.  Next  door  at  the 
back." 

*'  Oh  !"  returned  Neville.  "  And  the  mignonette  and  wall- 
flower?" 

"  The  same,"  said  the  visitor. 

"  Pray  walk  in." 

"  Thank  you." 

Neville  lighted  his  candles,  and  the  visitor  sat  down.  A  hand- 
some gentleman,  with  a  young  face,  but  an  older  figure  in  its 
robustness  and  its  breadth  of  shoulder ;  say  a  man  of  eight-and- 
twenty,  or  at  the  utmost  thirty :  so  extremely  sunburnt  that  the 
contrast  between  his  brown  visage  and  the  white  forehead  shaded 
out  of  doors  by  his  hat,  and  the  glimpses  of  white  throat  below  the 
neckerchief,  would  have  been  almost  ludicrous  but  for  his  broad 
temples,  bright  blue  ej^es,  clustering  brown  hair,  and  laughing 
teeth. 

"  I  have  noticed,"  said  he ;  "  — my  name  is  Tartar." 

Neville  inclined  his  head. 

"  I  have  noticed  (excuse  me)  that  you  shut  yourself  up  a  good 
deal,  and  that  you  seem  to  like  my  garden  aloft  here.  If  you 
would  like  a  little  more  of  it,  I  could  throw  out  a  few  lines  and 
stays  between  my  windows  and  yours,  which  the  runners  would 
take  to  directly.  And  I  have  some  boxes,  both  of  mignonette  and 
wallflower,  that  I  could  shove  on  along  the  gutter  (with  a  boat- 
hook  I  have  by  me)  to  your  windows,  and  draw  back  again  when 
they  wanted  watering  or  gardening,  and  shove  on  again  when  they 
were  ship-shaj)e,  so  that  they  would  cause  you  no  trouble.  I 
couldn't  take  this  liberty  without  asking  your  permission,  so  I 
venture  to  ask  it.     Tartar,  corresponding  set,  next  door." 

"  You  are  very  kind." 

*'  Not  at  all.  I  ought  to  apologise  for  looking  in  so  late.  But 
having  noticed  (excuse  me)  that  you  generally  walk  out  at  night, 
I  thought  I  should  inconvenience  you  least  by  awaiting  your 
return.  I  am  always  afraid  of  inconveniencing  busy  men,  being 
an  idle  man." 

"  I  should  not  have  thought  so,  from  your  appearance." 


PHILANTHTvOPy,   PROFESSIONAL   AND   UNPROFESSIONAL.         139 

"  Xo  ?  I  take  it  as  a  compliment.  In  fact,  I  was  bred  in  the 
Eoyal  Navy  and  was  First  Lieutenant  when  I  quitted  it.  But,  an 
uncle  disappointed  in  the  service  leaving  me  his  property  on  con- 
dition that  I  left  the  Navy,  1  accepted  the  fortune  and  resigned 
my  commission." 

"  Lately,  I  presume  ?" 

"  Well,  I  had  had  twelve  or  fifteen  years  of  knocking  about 
first.  I  came  here  some  nine  months  before  you  ;  I  had  had 
one  crop  before  you  came.  I  chose  this  place,  because,  having 
served  last  in  a  little  Corvette,  I  knew  I  should  feel  more  at  home 
where  I  had  a  constant  opportunity  of  knocking  my  head  against 
the  ceiling.  Besides  ;  it  would  never  do  for  a  man  who  had  been 
aboard  ship  from  his  boyhood  to  turn  luxurious  all  at  OKce. 
Besides,  again :  having  been  accustomed  to  a  very  short  allowance 
of  land  all  my  life,  I  thought  I'd  feel  my  way  to  the  command  of  a 
landed  estate,  by  beginning  in  boxes." 

Whimsically  as  this  was  said,  there  was  a  touch  of  merry  earnest- 
ness in  it  that  made  it  doubly  whimsical. 

"  However,"  said  the  Lieutenant,  "  I  have  talked  quite  enough 
about  myself.  It  is  not  my  way  1  hope ;  it  has  merely  been  to 
present  myself  to  jou  naturally.  If  you  will  allow  me  to  take  the 
liberty  I  have  described,  it  will  be  a  charity,  for  it  will  give  me 
something  more  to  do.  And  you  are  not  to  suppose  that  it  will 
entail  any  interruption  or  intrusion  on  you,  for  that  is  far  from 
my  intention." 

Neville  replied  that  he  was  greatly  obliged,  and  that  he  thank- 
fully accepted  the  kind  proposal. 

"  I  am  very  glad  to  take  your  windows  in  tow,"  said  the  Lieu- 
tenant. "  From  what  I  have  seen  of  you  when  I  have  been 
gardening  at  mine,  and  you  have  been  looking  on,  I  have  thought 
you  (excuse  me)  rather  too  studious  and  delicate  !  May  I  ask,  is 
your  health  at  all  affected  ?" 

*'  I  have  undergone  some  mental  distress,"  said  Neville,  confused, 
''  which  has  stood  me  in  the  stead  of  illness." 

''  Pardon  me,"  said  Mr.  Tartar. 

With  the  greatest  delicacy  he  sliifted  his  ground  to  the  windows 
again,  and  asked  if  he  could  look  at  one  of  them.  On  Neville's 
opening  it,  he  immediately  sprang  out,  as  if  he  were  going  aloft 
with  a  whole  watch  in  an  emergency,  and  were  setting  a  bright 
example. 

"  For  Heaven's  sake  !"  cried  Neville,  "  don't  do  that !  Whore 
are  you  going,  Mr.  Tartar  ?     You'll  be  dashed  to  pieces !" 

"  All  well !"  said  the  Lieutenant,  coolly  looking  about  him  on 
the  housetop.  "  All  taut  and  trim  here.  Those  lines  and  stays 
shall  be  rigged  before  you  turn  out  in  the  morning.  May  I  take 
this  short  cut  home  and  say.  Good-night  ?" 

"  Mr.  Tartar!"  urged  Neville,  "i'ray  !  It  makes  me  giddy  to 
see  you !" 

But  Mr.  Tartar,  with  a  wave  of  his  hand  and  the  deftness  of  a 
cat,  had  already  dipped  through  his  scuttle  of  scarlet  runners 
without  breaking  a  leaf,  and  "  gone  below." 

Mr.  Grewgious,  his  bedroom  window-blind  held  aside  with  his 


140  THE    MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

hand,  happened  at  that  moment  to  have  Neville's  chamhers  under 
his  eye  for  the  last  time  that  night.  Fortunately  his  eye  was  on 
the  front  of  the  house  and  not  the  back,  or  this  remarkable  appear- 
ance and  disappearance  might  have  broken  his  rest  as  a  phenome- 
non. But,  Mr.  Grewgious  seeing  nothing  there,  not  even  a  light 
in  the  windows,  his  gaze  wandered  from  the  windows  to  the  stars, 
as  if  he  would  have  read  in  them  something  that  was  hidden 
from  him.  Many  of  us  would  if  we  could  ;  but  none  of  us  so 
much  as  know  our  letters  in  the  stars  yet — or  seem  likely  to  do 
it,  in  this  state  of  existence — and  few  languages  can  be  read  until 
their  alphabets  are  mastered. 


CHAPTEE  XVIII. 

A    SETTLER   IN    CLOISTERHAM 


At  about  this  time,  a  stranger  appeared  in  Cloisterham ;  a  white 
haired  personage  with  black  eyebrows.  Being  buttoned  up  in  a 
tightish  blue  surtout,  with  a  buff  waistcoat  and  grey  trousers,  he 
had  something  of  a  military  air ;  but  he  announced  himself  at  the 
Crozier  (the  orthodox  hotel,  where  he  put  up  with  a  portmanteau) 
as  an  idle  dog  who  lived  upon  his  means  ;  and  he  further  announced 
that  he  had  a  mind  to  take  a  lodging  in  the  picturesque  old  city 
for  a  month  or  two,  with  a  view  of  settling  down  there  altogether. 
Both  announcements  were  made  in  the  coffee-room  of  the  Crozier, 
to  all  whom  it  might,  or  might  not,  concern,  by  the  stranger  as  he 
stood  with  his  back  to  the  empty  fireplace,  waiting  for  his  fried 
sole,  veal  cutlet,  and  pint  of  sherry.  And  the  waiter  (business 
being  chronically  slack  at  the  Crozier)  represented  all  whom  it 
might  or  might  not  concern,  and  absorbed  the  whole  of  the  infor- 
mation. 

This  gentleman's  white  head  was  unusually  large,  and  his  shock 
of  white  hair  was  unusually  thick  and  ample.  "  I  suppose,  waiter," 
he  said,  shaking  his  shock  of  hair,  as  a  Newfoundland  dog  might 
shake  his  before  sitting  down  to  dinner,  "  that  a  fair  lodging  for 
a  single  buffer  might  be  found  in  these  parts,  eh  ?" 

The  waiter  had  no  doubt  of  it. 

.  *'  Something  old,"  said  the  gentleman.  "  Take  my  hat  down  for 
a  moment  from  that  peg,  will  you  ?  No,  I  don't  want  it ;  look  into 
it.     What  do  you  see  written  there  ?" 

The  waiter  read  :  "  Datchery." 

"  Now  you  know  my  name,"  said  the  gentleman ;  "  Dick 
Datchery.  Hang  it  u]}  again.  I  was  saying  something  old  i& 
what  I  should  prefer,  something  odd  and  out  of  the  way  ;  something 
venerable,  architectural,  and  inconvenient." 

"  We  have  a  good  choice  of  inconvenient  lodgings  in  the  town, 
sir,  I  think,"  replied  the  waiter,  with  modest  confidence  in  ita 
resources  that  way  ;  "  indeed,  I  have  no  doubt  that  we  could  suit 
you  that  far,  however  particular  you  might  be.     But  a  architec- 


A   SETTLER   IN   CLOISTEEHAM.  141 

tural  lodging !"     That  seemed  to  trouble  the  waiter's  head,  and 
he  shook  it. 

"  Anything  Cathedraly  now,"  Mr.  Datchery  suggested. 
"  Mr.  Tope,"  said  the  waiter,  brightening,  as  he  rubbed  his  chin 
with  his  hand,  "  would  be  the  likeliest  party  to  inform  in  that 
line." 

"  Who  is  Mr.  Tope  ?"  inquired  Dick  Datchery. 
The  waiter  explained  that  he  was  the  Verger,  and  that  Mrs. 
Tope  had  indeed  once  upon  a  time  let  lodgings  herself — or  offered 
to  let  them  ;  but  that  as  nobody  had  ever  taken  them,  Mrs.  Tope's 
window-bill,  long  a  Cloisterham  Institution,  had  disappeared  ; 
probably  had  tumbled  down  one  day,  and  never  been  put  up  again. 
"  I'll  call  on  Mrs.  Tope,"  said  Mr.  Datchery,  "after  dinner." 
So  when  he  had  done  his  dinner,  he  was  duly  directed  to  the  spot, 
a.nd  sallied  out  for  it.  But  the  Crozier  being  an  hotel  of  a  most 
retiring  disposition,  and  the  waiter's  directions  being  fatally  precise, 
he  soon  became  bewildered,  and  went  boggling  about  and  about 
the  Cathedral  Tower,  whenever  he  could  catch  a  glimpse  of  it, 
with  a  general  impression  on  his  mind  that  Mrs.  Tope's  was  some- 
where very  near  it,  and  that,  like  the  children  in  the  game  of  hot 
boiled  beans  and  very  good  butter,  he  was  warm  in  his  search  when 
he  saw  the  Tower,  and  cold  when  he  didn't  see  it. 

He  was  getting  very  cold  indeed  when  he  came  upon  a  fragment 
•of  burial-ground  in  which  an  unhappy  sheep  was  grazing.  Un- 
happy, because  a  hideous  small  boy  was  stoning  it  through  the 
railings,  and  had  already  lamed  it  in  one  leg,  and  was  much  excited 
by  the  benevolent  sportsmanlike  purpose  of  breaking  its  other 
three  legs,  and  bringing  it  down. 

"  'It  'im  agin  !"  cried  the  boy,  as  the  poor  creature  leaped  ;  "and 
made  a  dint  in  his  wool !" 

"  Let  him  be  I"  said  Mr.  Datchery.  "  Don't  you  see  you  have 
lamed  him  ?" 

".Yer  lie,"  returned  the  sportsman.     "  E  went  and  lamed  isself. 
I  see  'im  do  it,  and  I  giv'  'im  a  shy  as  a  Widdy-warning  to  'im 
not  to  go  a  bruisin'  'is  master's  mutton  an}"  more." 
"  Come  here." 

"  I  won't ;  I'll  come  when  yer  can  ketch  me." 
"  Stay  there  then,  and  show  me  which  is  Mr.  Tope's." 
"  Ow  can  I  stay  here  and  show  you  which  is  Topeseses,  when 
Topeseses  is  t'other  side  the  Kinfreederal,  and  over  the  crossings, 
and  round  ever  so  many  corners  ?     Stoo-pid  !     Ya-a-ah  !" 
"  Show  me  where  it  is,  and  111  give  you  something." 
"  Come  on,  then !" 

This  brisk  dialogue  concluded,  the  boy  led  the  way,  and 
by-and-by  stopped  at  some  distance  from  an  arched  passage, 
pointing. 

"  Lookie  yonder.     You  see  that  there  winder  and  door  ?" 
"That's  Tope's?" 

"  Yer  lie  ;  it  ain't.     That's  Jarsper's." 

"Indeed?"  said  Mr.  Datchery,  with  a  second  look  of  som^ 
interest. 

"  Yes,  and  I  ain't  agoin  no  nearer  'Im,  I  tell  yer." 


142  THE   MYSTEEY   OF   EDWIN   DKOOD. 

"  Why  not  ?" 

"  'Cos  I  ain't  a  going  to  be  lifted  off  my  legs  and  'ave  my  braces 
bust  and  be  choked ;  not  if  I  knows  it  and  not  by  'Im.  Wait  till 
I  set  a  jolly  good  flint  a  fljan  at  the  back  o'  'is  jolly  old  'ed  some 
day  !  Now  look  t'other  side  the  harch ;  not  the  side  where  Jarsper's 
door  is  ;  t'other  side." 

"  I  see." 

"  A  little  way  in,  o*  that  side,  there's  a  low  door,  down  two 
steps.     That's  Topeseses  with  'is  name  on  a  hoval  plate." 

"  Good.  See  here,"  said  Mr.  Datchery,  producing  a  shilling. 
"  You  owe  me  half  of  this." 

"  Yer  lie ;  I  don't  owe  yer  nothing ;  I  never  seen  yer." 

"  I  tell  you  you  owe  me  half  of  this,  because  I  have  no  sixpence 
in  my  pocket.  So  the  next  time  you  meet  me  you  shall  do  some- 
thing else  for  me,  to  pay  me." 

"  All  right,  give  us  'old." 

'•  What  is  your  name,  and  where  do  you  live  ?" 

"  Deputy.     Travellers'  Twopenny,  'cross  the  green." 

The  boy  instantly  darted  off  with  the  shilling,  lest  Mr.  Datchery 
should  repent,  but  stopped  at  a  safe  distance,  on  the  happy  chance 
of  his  being  uneasy  in  his  mind  about  it,  to  goad  him  with  a  demon 
dance  expressive  of  its  irrevocability. 

Mr.  Datchery,  taking  off  his  hat  to  give  that  shock  of  white  hair 
of  his  another  shake,  seemed  quite  resigned,  and  betook  himself 
whither  he  had  been  directed. 

Mr.  Tope's  official  dwelling,  communicating  by  an  upper  stair 
with  Mr.  Jasper's  (hence  Mrs.  Tope's  attendance  on  that  gentle- 
man), was  of  very  modest  proportions,  and  partook  of  the  character 
of  a  cool  dungeon.  Its  ancient  walls  were  massive  and  its  rooms 
rather  seemed  to  have  been  dug  out  of  them,  than  to  have  been 
designed  beforehand  with  any  reference  to  them.  The  main 
door  opened  at  once  on  a  chamber  of  no  describable  shape,  with  a 
groined  roof,  which  in  its  turn  opened  on  another  chamber  of  no 
describable  shape,  with  another  groined  roof:  their  windows  small, 
and  in  the  thickness  of  the  walls.  These  two  chambers,  close 
as  to  their  atmosphere  and  swarthy  as  to  their  illumination  by 
natural  light,  were  the  apartments  which  Mrs.  Tope  had  so  long 
offered  to  an  unappreciative  city.  Mr.  Datchery,  however,  was 
more  appreciative.  He  found  that  if  he  sat  with  the  main  door 
open  he  would  enjoy  the  passing  society  of  all  comers  to  and  fro 
by  the  gateway,  and  would  have  light  enough.  He  found  that  if 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Tope  living  overhead,  used  for  their  own  egress  and 
ingress  a  little  side  stair  that  came  plump  into  the  Precincts  by  a 
door  opening  outward,  to  the  surprise  and  inconvenience  of  a 
limited  public  of  pedestrians  in  a  narrow  way,  he  would  be  alone, 
as  in  a  separate  residence.  He  found  the  rent  moderate,  and  every- 
thing as  quaintly  inconvenient  as  he  could  desire.  He  agreed 
therefore  to  take  the  lodging  then  and  there,  and  money  down, 
possession  to  be  had  next  evening  on  condition  that  reference  was 
permitted  him  to  Mr.  Jasper  as  occupying  the  Gate  House,  of  which, 
on  the  other  side  of  the  gateway  the  Verger's  hole  in  the  wall  was- 
an  appanage  or  subsidiary  part. 


A    SETTLER   IN    CLOISTERHAM.  14o 

The  poor  dear  gentleman  was  very  solitary  and  very  sad,  Mrs. 
Tope  said,  but  she  had  no  doubt  he  would  "  speak  for  her."  Per- 
haps Mr.  Datchery  had  heard  something  of  what  had  occurred 
there  last  winter  ? 

Mr.  Datchery  had  as  confused  a  knowledge  of  the  event  in 
question,  on  trying  to  recall  it,  as  he  well  could  have.  He  begged 
Mrs.  Tope's  pardon  when  she  found  it  incumbent  on  her  to  correct 
him  in  every  detail  of  his  summary  of  the  facts,  but  pleaded  that 
he  was  merely  a  single  buffer  getting  through  life  upon  his  means 
as  idly  as  he  could,  and  that  so  many  peoj)le  were  so  constantly 
making  away  with  so  many  other  people,  as  to  render  it  difficult 
for  a  buffer  of  an  easy  temper  to  preserve  the  circumstances  of  the 
several  cases  unmixed  in  his  mind. 

Mr.  Jasper  proving  willing  to  speak  for  Mrs.  Tope,  Mr,  Datchery, 
who  had  sent  up  his  card,  was  invited  to  ascend  the  postern  stair- 
case. The  Mayor  was  there,  Mrs.  Tope  said ;  but  he  was  not  to  be 
regarded  -in  the  light  of  company,  as  he  and  Mr.  Jasper  were  great 
friends. 

"I  beg  pardon,"  said  Mr.  Datchery,  making  a  leg  with  his  hat 
under  his  arm,  as  he  addressed  himself  equally  to  both  gentlemen ; 
"  a  selfish  precaution  on  my  part  and  not  personally  interesting 
to  anybody  but  myself.  But  as  a  buffer  living  on  his  means,  and 
having  an  idea  of  doing  it  in  this  lovely  place  in  peace  and  quiet, 
for  remaining  span  of  life,  beg  to  ask  if  the  Tope  family  are  quite 
respectable  ?" 

Mr.  Jasper  could  answer  for  that  without  the  slightest  hesitation. 

"  That  is  enough,  sir,"  said  Mr.  Datchery. 

"My  friend  the  Mayor,"  added  Mr.  Jasper,  presenting  Mr. 
Datchery  with  a  courtly  motion  of  his  hand  towards  that  potentate ; 
"  whose  recommendation  is  actually  much  more  important  to  a 
stranger  than  that  of  an  obscure  person  like  myself,  will  testify  in 
their  behalf,  I  am  sure." 

"  The  Worshipful  the  Mayor,"  said  Mr.  Datchery,  with  a  low 
bow,  "  places  me  under  an  infinite  obligation." 

"  Yery  good  people,  sir,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Tope,"  said  Mr.  Sapsea, 
•vvith  condescension.  "  Very  good  opinions.  Very  well  behaved. 
Very  respectful.     Much  approved  by  the  Dean  and  Chapter." 

"  The  Worshij)ful  the  Maj^or  gives  them  a  character,"  said  Mr. 
Datchery,  "  of  which  they  may  indeed  be  proud.  I  would  Ask  His 
Honor  (if  I  might  be  permitted)  whether  there  are  not  many 
objects  of  great  interest  in  the  city  which  is  under  his  beneficent 
sway  ?" 

"  We  are,  sir,"  returned  Mr.  Sapsea,  "  an  ancient  city,  and  an 
ecclesiastical  city.  We  are  a  constitutional  city,  as  it  becomes 
such  a  city  to  be,  and  we  uphold  and  maintain  our  glorious 
privileges." 

"  His  Honor,"  said  Mr.  Datchery,  bowing,  "  inspires  me  with  a 
desire  to  know  more  of  the  city,  and  confirms  me  in  my  inclination 
to  end  my  da3's  in  the  city." 

"  Eetired  from  the  Army,  sir?"  suggested  Mr.  Sapsea. 

"  His  Honor  the  Mayor  does  me  too  much  credit,"  returned  Mr. 
Datchery. 


144  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN  DROOD. 

"•  Navy,  sir  ?"  suggested  Mr.  Sapsea. 

"  Again,"  repeated  Mr.  Datcliery,  "  His  Honor  the  Mayor  does 
me  too  mucli  credit." 

"  Diplomacy  is  a  fine  profession,"  said  Mr.  Sapsea,  as  a  general 
remark. 

*'  There,  I  confess.  His  Honor  the  Mayor  is  too  many  for  me,'* 
said  Mr.  Hatchery,  with  an  ingenuous  smile  and  bow ;  "  even  a 
diplomatic  bird  must  fall  to  such  a  gun." 

Now,  this  was  very  soothing.  Here  was  a  gentleman  of  a  great 
not  to  say  a  grand — address,  accustomed  to  rank  and  dignity, 
really  setting  a  fine  example  how  to  behave  to  a  Mayor.  There 
was  something  in  that  third  person  style  of  being  spoken  to,  that 
Mr.  Sapsea  found  particularly  recognisant  of  his  merits  and 
position. 

"  But  I  crave  pardon,"  said  Mr.  Hatchery.  "  His  Honor  the 
Mayor  will  bear  with  me,  if  for  a  moment  I  have  been  deluded 
into  occupying  his  time,  and  have  forgotten  the  humble  claims 
upon  my  own,  of  my  hotel,  the  Crozier." 

"  Not  at  all,  sir,"  said  Mr.  Sapsea.  "  I  am  returning  home,  and 
if  you  would  like  to  take  the  exterior  of  our  cathedral  in  your 
way,  I  shall  be  glad  to  point  it  out." 

"  His  Honor  the  Mayor,"  said  Mr.  Hatchery,  "  is  more  than  kind 
-and  gracious." 

As  Mr.  Hatchery,  when  he  had  made  his  acknowledgments  to 
Mr.  Jasper,  could  not  be  induced  to  go  out  of  the  room  before  the 
Worshipful,  the  Worshipful  led  the  way  down  stairs ;  Mr. 
Hatchery  following  with  his  hat  under  his  arm,  and  his  shock  of 
white  hair  streaming  in  the  evening  breeze. 

"  Might  I  ask  His  Honor,"  said  Mr.  Hatchery,  "  whether  that 
gentleman  we  have  just  left  is  the  gentleman  of  whom  I  have 
Leard  in  the  neighbourhood  as  being  much  afflicted  by  the  loss  of 
a  nephew,  and  concentrating  his  life  on  avenging  the  loss  ?" 

"  That  is  the  gentleman.     John  Jasper,  sir." 

"Would  His  Honor  allow  me  to  inquire  whether  there  are 
strong  suspicions  of  any  one  ?" 

"  More  than  suspicions,  sir,"  returned  Mr.  Sapsea,  "  all  but 
certainties." 

*'  Only  think  now  I"  cried  Mr.  Hatchery. 

"  But  proof,  sir,  proof,  must  be  built  up  stone  by  stone,"  said 
the  Mayor.  "  As  I  say,  the  end  crowns  the  work.  It  is  not 
enough*  that  Justice  should  be  morally  certain ;  she  must  be 
immorally  certain — legally,  that  is." 

*'  His  Honor,"  said  Mr.  Hatchery,  "  reminds  me  of  the  nature 
of  the  law.     Immoral.     How  true !" 

"  As  I  say,  sir,"  pompously  went  on  the  Mayor,  "  the  arm  of  the 
law  is  a  strong  arm,  and  a  long  arm.  That  is  the  way  /  put  it. 
A  strong  arm  and  a  long  arm." 

"  How  forcible  ! — And  yet,  again,  how  true  !"  murmured  Mr. 
Hatchery. 

*'  And  without  betraying  what  I  call  the  secrets  of  the  prison- 
house,"  said  Mr.  Sapsea ;  "  the  secrets  of  the  prison-house  is  the 
term  I  used  on  the  bench." 


A    SETTLER   IN    CLOISTERHAM.  145 

"  And  what  other  term  than  His  Honor's  would  express  it  ?" 
said  Mr.  Datchery. 

"  Without,  I  say,  betraj^ng  them,  I  predict  to  you,  knowing; 
tlie  iron  will  of  the  gentleman  we  have  just  left  (I  take  the  bold 
step  of  calling  it  iron,  on  account  of  its  strength),  that  in  this 
case  the  long  arm  will  reach,  and  the  strong  arm  will  strike. — 
This  is  our  cathedral,  sir.  The  best  judges  are  pleased  to  admire 
it,  and  the  best  among  our  townsmen  own  to  being  a  little  vain 
of  it." 

All  this  time  Mr.  Datchery  had  walked  with  his  hat  under 
his  arm,  and  his  white  hair  streaming.  He  had  an  odd  momen- 
tary appearance  upon  him  of  having  forgotten  his  hat,  when 
Mr.  Sapsea  now  touched  it ;  and  he  clapped  his  hand  up  to  his 
head  as  if  with  some  vague  expectation  of  finding  another  hat 
upon  it. 

"  Pray  be  covered,  sir,"  entreated  Mr.  Sapsea ;  magnificently 
implying  :  "I  shall  not  mind  it,  I  assure  you." 

"  His  Honor  is  very  good,  but  I  do  it  for  coolness,"  said  Mr. 
Datchery. 

Then  Mr.  Datchery  admired  the  cathedral,  and  Mr.  Sapsea 
pointed  it  out  as  if  he  himself  had  invented  and  built  it ;  there 
were  a  few  details  indeed  of  which  he  did  not  approve,  but  those 
he  glossed  over,  as  if  the  workmen  had  made  mistakes  in  his 
absence.  The  cathedral  disposed  of,  he  led  the  way  by  the 
churchyard,  and  stopped  to  extol  the  beauty  of  the  evening — 
by  chance — in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  Mrs.  Sapsea's  epitaph. 

"  And  by-the-by,"  said  Mr.  Sapsea,  appearing  to  descend  froui 
an  elevation  to  remember  it  all  of  a  sudden  ;  like  Apollo  shooting 
down  from  Olympus  to  pick  up  his  forgotten  lyre ;  "  that  is  one 
of  our  small  lions.  The  partiality  of  our  people  has  made  it  so, 
and  strangers  have  been  seen  taking  a  copy  of  it  now  and  then. 
I  am  not  a  judge  of  it  myself,  for  it  is  a  little  work  of  my  o^vn. 
But  it  was  troublesome  to  turn,  sir ;  I  may  say,  difficult  to  turn 
with  elegance." 

Mr.  Datchery  became  so  ecstatic  over  Mr.  Sapsea's  composition 
that,  in  spite  of  his  intention  to  end  his  days  in  Cloisterham,  and 
therefore  his  probably  having  in  reserve  many  opportunities  of 
copying  it,  he  would  have  transcribed  it  into  his  pocket-book  on 
the  spot,  but  for  the  slouching  towards  them  of  its  material  pro- 
ducer and  perpetuator,  Durdles,  whom  Mr.  Sapsea  hailed,  noi 
sorry  to  show  him  a  bright  example  of  behaviour  to  superiors. 

"  Ah,  Durdles  !  This  is  the  mason,  sir  ;  one  of  our  Cloisterham 
worthies ;  everybody  here  knows  Durdles.  IMr.  Datchery,  Durdles  ; 
a  gentleman  who  is  going  to  settle  here." 

"  I  wouldn't  do  it  if  I  was  him,"  growled  Durdles.  "  We're  a 
heavy  lot." 

"You  surely  don't  speak  for  yourself,  Mr.  Durdles,"  returned 
Mr.  Datchery,  "  any  more  than  for  His  Honor." 

"  Who's  His  Honor  ?"  demanded  Durdles. 

"  His  Honor  the  Mayor." 

"  I  never  was  brought  afore  him,"  said  Durdles,  with  anything 
but  the  look  of  a  loyal  subject  of  the  mayoralty,  '•  and  it'll  be  time 

L 


146  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

enough  for   me  to   Honor  him  when  I  am.      Until  which,  and 

when,  and  where : 

"  Mister  Sapsea  is  his  name, 
England  is  his  nation, 
Cloisterham's  his  dwelling-place, 
Aukshneer's  his  occupation," 

Here,  Deputy  (preceded  by  a  flying  03''ster-shell)  appeared  upon 
the  scene,  and  requested  to  have  the  sum  of  threepence  instantly 
"  chucked"  to  him  by  Mr.  Hurdles,  whom  he  had  been  vainly  seeking 
up  and  down,  as  lawful  wages  overdue.  While  that  gentleman, 
with  his  bundle  under  his  arm,  slowly  found  and  counted  out  the 
money,  Mr.  Sapsea  informed  the  new  settler  of  Durdles's  habits, 
pursuits,  abode,  and  reputation.  "  I  sujipose  a  curious  stranger 
might  come  to  see  you,  and  your  works,  Mr.  Hurdles,  at  any  odd 
time  ?"  said  Mr.  Hatchery  upon  that. 

*'  Any  gentleman  is  welcome  to  come  and  see  me  any  evening  if 
he  brings  liquor  for  two  with  him,"  returned  Hurdles,  with  a  penny 
between  his  teeth  and  certain  halfpence  in  his  hands.  "  Or  if  he 
likes  to  make  it  twice  two,  he'll  be  doubly  welcome." 

"  I  shall  come.     Master  Heputy,  what  do  you  owe  me  ?" 

"A  job." 

"  Mind  you  pay  me  honestly  with  the  job  of  showing  me 
Mr.  Hurdles's  house  when  I  want  to  go  there." 

Heputy,  with  a  piercing  broadside  of  whistle  through  the  whole 
gap  in  his  mouth,  as  a  receipt  in  full  for  all  arrears,  vanished. 

The  Worshipful  and  the  Worshipper  then  passed  on  together 
until  they  parted,  with  many  ceremonies,  at  the  AVorshipful's 
door ;  even  then,  the  Worshipper  carried  his  hat  under  his  arm, 
and  gave  his  streaming  white  hair  to  the  breeze. 

Siiid  Mr.  Hatchery  to  himself  that  night,  as  he  looked  at  his 
white  hair  in  the  gas-lighted  looking-glass  over  the  coffee-room 
chimney  piece  at  the  Crozier,  and  shook  it  out :  "  For  a  single  buffer, 
of  an  easy  temper,  living  idly  on  his  means,  I  have  had  a  rather 
busy  afternoon !" 


SHADOW   ON   THE    SUN-DIAL.  147 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

SHADOW   ON   THE   SUN-DIAL. 

Again  Miss  Twinkleton  has  delivered  her  valedictory  address, 
with  the  accompaniments  of  white  wine  and  pound  cake,  and  again 
the  young  ladies  have  departed  to  their  several  homes.  Helena 
Landless  has  left  the  Nuns'  House  to  attend  her  brother's  fortunes, 
•and  pretty  Eosa  is  alone. 

Cloisterham  is  so  bright  and  sunny  in  these  summer  days,  that 
the  cathedral  and  the  monastery-ruin  show  as  if  their  strong 
walls  were  transparent.  A  soft  glow  sjeems  to  shine  from  within 
them,  rather  than  upon  them  from  without,  such  is  their  mellow- 
ness as  they  look  forth  on  the  hot  corn-fields  and  the  smoking 
roads  that  distantly  wind  among  them.  The  Cloisterham  gardens 
blush  with  ripening  fruit.  Time  was  when  travel-stained  pil- 
grims rode  in  clattering  parties  through  the  city's  welcome  shades ; 
time  is  when  wayfarers,  leading  a  gips}^  life  between  haymaking 
time  and  harvest,  and  looking  as  if  they  were  just  made  of  the 
dust  of  the  earth,  so  very  dusty  are  they,  lounge  about  on  cool  door- 
steps, trying  to  mend  their  unmendable  shoes,  or  giving  them  to 
the  city  kennels  as  a  hopeless  job,  and  seeking  others  in  the 
bundles  that  they  carry,  along  with  their  yet  unused  sickles 
swathed  in  l^ands  of  straw.  At  all  the  more  public  pumps  there 
is  much  cooling  of  bare  feet,  together  with  much  bubbling  and 
gurgling  of  drinking  with  hand  to  spout  on  the  part  of  these 
Bedouins ;  the  Cloisterham  police  meanwhile  looking  askant  from 
their  beats  with  suspicion,  and  manifest  impatience  that  the 
intruders  should  depart  from  within  the  civic  bounds,  and  once 
more  fry  themselves  on  the  simmering  highroads. 

On  the  afternoon  of  such  a  day,  when  the  last  cathedral  service 
is  done,  and  when  that  side  of  the  High  Street  on  which  the 
Nuns'  House  stands  is  in  grateful  shade,  save  where  its  quaint 
old  garden  opens  to  the  west  between  the  boughs  of  trees,  a 
servant  informs  Eosa,  to  her  terror,  that  Mr.  Jasper  desires  to  see 
her. 

If  he  had  chosen  his  time  for  finding  her  at  a  disadvantage,  he 
could  have  done  no  better.  Perhaps  he  has  chosen  it.  Helena 
Landless  is  gone,  Mrs.  Tisher  is  absent  on  leave,  Miss  Twinkleton 
(in  her  amateur  state  of  existence)  has  contributed  herself  and  a 
veal  pie  to  a  picnic. 

"  Oh  why,  why,  why,  did  you  say  I  was  at  home  !"  cries  Eosa, 
helplessly. 

The  maid  replies,  that  Mr.  Jasper  never  asked  the  question. 
That  he  said  he  knew  she  was  at  home,  and  begged  she  might  be 
told  that  he  asked  to  see  her. 

"  What  shall  I  do,  what  shall  I  do  :"  thinks  Eosa,  clasping  her 
hands. 

Possessed  by  a  kind  of  desperation,  she  adds  in  the  next  breath 

L  2 


l-iS  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

that  hIic  will  come  to  Mr.  Jasper  in  the  garden.  She  shudders  at  the 
thought  of  being  shut  up  with  him  in  the  house;  but  many  of  its 
windows  command  the  garden,  and  she  can  be  seen  as  well  as 
heard  there,  and  can  shriek  in  the  free  air  and  run  away.  Such 
is  the  wild  idea  that  flutters  through  her  mind. 

She  has  never  seen  him  since  the  fatal  night,  except  when  she 
was  questioned  before  the  Mayor,  and  then  he  was  present  in 
gloomy  watchfulness,  as  representing  his  lost  nephew  and  burning 
to  avenge  him.  She  hangs  her  garden-hat  on  her  arm,  and  goes 
out.  The  moment  she  sees  him  from  the  porch,  leaning  on  the 
sun-dial,  the  old  horrible  feeling  of  being  compelled  by  him, 
asserts  its  hold  upon  her.  She  feels  that  she  would  even  then  go 
back,  but  that  he  draws  her  feet  towards  him.  She  cannot  resist, 
and  sits  down,  with  her  head  bent,  on  the  garden-seat  beside  the 
sun-dial.  She  cannot  look  up  at  him  for  abhorrence,  but  she  has 
perceived  that  he  is  dressed  in  deep  mourning.  So  is  she.  It  was 
not  so  at  first ;  but  the  lost  has  long  been  given  up,  and  mourned 
for,  as  dead. 

He  would  begin  by  touching  her  hand.  She  feels  the  intention, 
and  draws  her  hand  back.  His  ejes  are  then  fixed  upon  her,  she 
knows,  though  her  own  see  nothing  but  the  grass. 

"  I  have  been  waiting,"  he  begins,  "  for  some  time,  to  be  sum- 
moned back  to  my  duty  near  you." 

After  several  times  forming  her  lips,  which  she  knows  he  is 
closely  watching,  into  the  shape  of  some  other  hesitating  reply, 
and  then  into  none,  she  answers  :  "  Duty,  sir  ?" 

"  The  duty  of  teaching  you,  serving  you  as  your  faithful  music- 
master." 

*'  I  have  left  off  that  study." 

"  Not  left  off,  I  think.  Discontinued.  I  was  told  by  ^'our 
guardian  that  you  discontinued  it  under  the  shock  that  we  have 
all  felt  so  acutely.     When  will  you  resume  ?" 

"  Never,  sir." 

"Never?  You  could  have  done  no  more  if  you  had  loved  my 
dear  boy." 

"  I  did  love  him !"  cries  Rosa,  with  a  flash  of  anger. 

"  Yes  ;  but  not  quite — not  quite  in  the  right  way,  shall  I  say  ? 
Not  in  the  intended  and  expected  way.  Much  as  my  dear  boy 
was,  unhappil}',  too  self-conscious  and  self-satisfied  (I'll  draw  no 
parallel  between  him  and  you  in  that  respect)  to  love  as  he 
should  have  loved,  or  as  any  one  in  his  place  would  have  loved 
— must  have  loved !" 

She  sits  in  the  same  still  attitude,  but  shrinking  a  little 
more. 

"  Then,  to  be  told  that  you  discontinued  your  study  with  me, 
was  to  be  politely  told  that  you  abandoned  it  altogether?"  he 
suggested. 

"  Yes,"  says  Eosa,  with  sudden  spirit.  "  The  politeness  was 
my  guardian's,  not  miue.  I  told  him  that  I  was  resolved  to  leave 
off,  and  that  I  was  determined  to  stand  by  my  resolution." 

"  And  you  still  are  ?" 


-■<?/y/j^yyr-i^-'. 


$i;>%^^^^^ 


■f 


SHADOW    ON    THE    SUX-DIAL.  149 


^^ 


I  still  am,  sir.  And  I  beg  not  to  be  questioned  any  more 
about  it.  At  all  events,  I  will  not  answer  any  more ;  I  have  that 
in  my  power." 

She  is  so  conscious  of  his  looking  at  her  with  a  gloating  admi- 
ration of  the  touch  of  anger  on  her,  and  the  fire  and  animation  it 
brings  with  it,  that  even  as  her  spirit  rises,  it  falls  again,  and  she 
struggles  with  a  sense  of  shame,  afiront,  and  fear,  much  as  she  did 
that  night  at  the  piano. 

"  I  will  not  question  you  any  more,  since  you  o])jcct  to  it  so 
much  ;  I  will  confess." 

"  I  do  not  wish  to  hear  you,  sir,"  cries  Eosa,  rising. 

This  time  he  does  touch  her  with  his  outstretched  hand.  In 
shrinking  from  it,  she  shrinks  into  her  seat  again. 

"  We  must  sometimes  act  in  opposition  to  our  wishes."  he 
tells  her  in  a  low  voice.  "  You  must  do  so  now,  or  do  more  harm 
to  others  than  you  can  ever  set  right." 

''  What  harm  ?" 

"  Presently,  presently.  You  question  7ne,  you  see,  and  surely 
that's  not  fair  when  you  forbid  me  to  question  you.  Never- 
theless, I  will  answer  the  question  presently.  Dearest  Eosa ! 
<„'harming  Eosa !" 

►She  starts  up  again. 

This  time  he  does  not  touch  her.  But  his  face  looks  so  wicked 
•and  menacing,  as  he  stands  leaning  against  the  sun-dial — setting, 
as  it  were,  his  black  mark  upon  the  very  face  of  day — that  her 
llight  is  arrested  by  horror  as  she  looks  at  him, 

"  I  do  not  forget  how  many  windows  command  a  view  of  us," 
he  sajs,  glancing  towards  them.  "  I  will  not  touch  you  again,  I 
will  come  no  nearer  to  you  than  I  am.  Sit  down,  and  there  will 
be  no  mighty  wonder  in  your  music-master's  leaning  idly  against  a 
pedestal  and  speaking  with  you,  remembering  all  that  has  hap- 
pened and  our  shares  in  it.     Sit  down,  my  beloved." 

She  would  have  gone  once  more — was  all  but  gone — and  once 
more  his  face,  darkly  threatening  what  would  follow  if  she  went, 
has  stopped  her.  Looking  at  him  with  the  expression  of  the  instant 
frozen  on  her  face,  she  sits  down  on  the  seat  again. 

"  Eosa,  even  when  my  dear  boy  was  affianced  to  you,  I  loved 
you  madly  ;  even  when  I  thought  his  happiness  in  having  you  for 
his  wife  was  certain,  I  loved  you  madly ;  even  when  I  strove  to 
make  him  more  ardently  devoted  to  you,  I  loved  you  madly ;  even 
when  he  gave  me  the  picture  of  your  lovely  face  so  carelessly  tra- 
duced by  him,  which  I  feigned  to  hang  alwa^-^s  in  my  sight  for  his 
sake,  but  worshipped  in  torment  for  jears,  I  loved  you  madly. 
In  the  distasteful  work  of  the  day,  in  the  wakeful  misery  of  the 
night,  girded  by  sordid  realities,  or  wandering  through  Paradises 
4ind  Hells  of  visions  into  which  I  rushed,  carrying  your  image  in 
my  arms,  I  loved  you  madly." 

If  anything  could  make  his  words  more  hideous  to  her  than 
they  are  in  themselves,  it  would  be  the  contrast  between  the 
violence  of  his  look  and  delivery,  and  the  composure  of  his 
assumed  attitude. 


150  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

"  I  endured  it  all  iu  silence.  So  long  as  you  were  liis,  or  so^ 
long  as  I  supposed  you  to  be  his,  I  hid  my  secret  loyally. 
Did  I  not?" 

This  lie,  so  gross,  while  the  mere  words  in  which  it  is  told  are 
so  true,  is  more  than  liosa  can  endure.  She  answers  with  kindling- 
indignation  :  "  You  were  as  false  throughout,  sir,  as  you  are  now. 
You  were  false  to  him,  daily  and  hourly.  You  know  that  you 
made  my  life  unhappy  by  your  pursuit  of  me.  You  know  that  you 
made  me  afraid  to  open  his  generous  eyes,  and  that  you  forced 
me,  for  his  own  trusting,  good,  good  sake,  to  keep  the  truth 
from  him,  that  you  were  a  bad,  bad,  man  !" 

His  preservation  of  his  easy  attitude  rendering  his  working 
features  and  his  convulsive  hands  absolutely  diabolical,  he  returns, 
with  a  fierce  extreme  of  admiration  : 

"  How  beautiful  you  are !  You  are  more  beautiful  in  anger 
than  in  repose.  I  don't  ask  you  for  your  love  ;  give  me  yourself 
and  your  hatred ;  give  me  yourself  and  that  pretty  rage ;  give 
me  yourself  and  that  enchanting  scorn ;  it  will  be  enough  for 
me." 

Impatient  tears  rise  to  the  eyes  of  the  trembling  little  beauty, 
and  her  face  flames  ;  but  as  she  again  rises  to  leave  him  in  indig- 
nation, and  seek  protection  within  the  house,  he  stretches  out  his 
hand  towards  the  porch,  as  though  he  invited  her  to  enter  it. 

"I  told  you,  you  rare  charmer,  you  sweet  witch,  that  you 
must  stay  and  hear  me,  or  do  more  harm  than  can  ever  be  undone. 
You  asked  me  what  harm.  Stay,  and  I  will  tell  you.  Go,  and  I 
will  do  it!" 

Again  Eosa  quails  before  his  threatening  face,  though  inno- 
cent of  its  meaning,  and  she  remains.  Her  panting  breathing- 
comes  and  goes  as  if  it  would  choke  her ;  but  with  a  repressive 
hand  upon  her  bosom,  she  remains. 

"  I  have  made  my  confession  that  my  love  is  road.  It  is  so  mad 
that,  had  the  ties  between  me  and  my  dear  lost  boy  been  one 
silken  thread  less  strong,  I  might  have  swept  even  him  from 
your  side  when  you  favored  him." 

A  film  comes  over  the  eyes  she  i-aises  for  an  instant,  as  though 
he  had  turned  her  faint. 

"  Even  him,"  he  repeats.  "  Yes,  even  him  !  Eosa,  you  see  me 
and  you  hear  me.  Judge  for  yourself  whether  any  other  admirer 
shall  love  you  and  live,  whose  life  is  in  my  hand." 

"  What  do  you  mean,  sir  ?" 

"  I  mean  to  show  you  how  mad  my  love  is.  It  was  hawked 
through  the  late  inquiries  by  Mr.  Crisparkle,  that  young  Landless 
had  confessed  to  him  that  he  was  a  rival  of  my  lost  boy.  That  is 
an  inexpiable  offence  in  my  eyes.  The  same  Mr.  Crisparkle 
knows  under  my  hand  that  I  have  devoted  myself  to  the  murderer's 
discovery  and  destruction,  be  he  whom  he  might,  and  that  I  de- 
termined to  discuss  the  mystery  with  no  one  until  I  should  hold 
the  clue  in  which  to  entangle  the  murderer  as  in  a  net.  I  have 
since  worked  patiently  to  wind  and  wind  it  round  him ;  and  it  it^ 
slowly  winding  as  I  speak." 


SHADOW   ON   THE   SUN-DTAL.  151 

"Your  belief,  if  you  believe  in  the  criminality  of  Mr.  Land- 
less,  is  not  Mr.  Crisparkle's  belief,  and  be  is  a  good  man,"  Kosa 
retorts. 

"  My  belief  is  my  own  ;  and  I  reserve  it,  worshipped  of  my 
soul !  Circumstances  may  accumulate  so  strongly  even  against  an 
innocent  man^  that,  directed,  sharpened,  and  pointed,  they  may  slay 
him.  One  wanting  link  discovered  by  perseverance  against  a 
guilty  man,  proves  his  guilt,  however  slight  its  evidence  before, 
and  he  dies.  Young  Landless  stands  in  deadly  peril  either 
way." 

"  If  you  really  suppose,"  Eosa  pleads  with  him,  turning  paler, 
"  that  I  favor  Mr.  Landless,  or  that  Mr.  Landless  has  ever  in 
any  way  addressed  himself  to  me,  you  are  wrong." 

He  puts  that  from  him  with  a  slighting  action  of  his  hand  and 
a  curled  lip. 

"  I  was  going  to  show  you  how  madly  I  love  you.  More  madly 
now  than  ever,  for  I  am  willing  to  renounce  the  second  object 
that  has  arisen  in  my  life  to  divide  it  with  you  ;  and  hencefortli 
to  have  no  object  in  existence  but  you  only.  Miss  Landless  has 
become  your  bosom  friend.     You  care  for  her  peace  of  mind  ?" 

"  I  love  her  dearly." 

"  You  care  for  her  good  name?" 

"  I  have  said,  sir,  I  love  her  dearly." 

"I  am  unconsciously,"  he  observes,  with  a  smile,  as  he  folds 
his  hands  upon  the  sun-dial  and  leans  his  chin  upon  them,  so  that 
his  talk  would  seem  from  the  windows  (faces  occasionally  come 
and  go  there)  to  be  of  the  airiest  and  playfulest :  "I  am  un- 
consciously giving  offence  by  questioning  again.  I  will  simply 
make  statements,  therefore,  and  not  put  questions.  You  do  care 
for  your  bosom  friend's  good  name,  and  you  do  care  for  her  peace 
of  mind.  Then  remove  the  shadow  of  the  gallows  from  her,  dear 
one !" 

"  You  dare  propose  to  me  to " 

"  Darling,  I  dare  propose  to  you.  Stop  there.  If  it  be  bad  to 
idolize  you,  I  am  the  worst  of  men ;  if  it  be  good,  I  am  the  best. 
My  love  for  you  is  above  all  other  love,  and  my  truth  to  you  is 
above  all  other  truth.  Let  me  have  hope  and  favor,  and  I  am 
a  forsworn  man  for  your  sake." 

Eosa  puts  her  hands  to  her  temples,  and,  pushing  back  her  hair, 
looks  wildly  and  abhorrently  at  him,  as  though  she  were  trying  to 
piece  together  what  it  is  his  deep  purpose  to  present  to  her  only 
in  fragments. 

"  Eeckon  up  nothing  at  this  moment,  angel,  but  the  sacrifices 
that  I  lay  at  those  dear  feet,  which  I  could  fall  down  among  the 
vilest  ashes  and  kiss,  and  put  upon  my  head  as  a  poor  savage 
might.  There  is  my  fidelity  to  my  dear  boy  after  death.  Tread 
upon  it !" 

With  an  action  of  his  hands,  as  though  he  cast  down  something 
precious. 

"  There  is  the  inexpiable  offence  against  my  adoration  of  you. 
Spurn  it !" 


152  THE    MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN    DROOD. 

Witli  a  similar  action. 

"  There  are  my  labors  in  tlie  cause  of  a  just  vengeance  for  six 
toiling  months.     Crush  them !" 

With  another  repetition  of  the  action. 

"  There  is  my  past  and  my  present  wasted  life.  There  is  the 
desqlation  of  my  heart  and  my  soul.  There  is  my  peace  ;  there  is 
my  despair.  Stamp  them  into  the  dust,  so  that  you  take  me, 
were  it  even  mortally  hating  me  !" 

The  frightful  vehemence  of  the  man,  now  reaching  its  full 
height,  so  additionally  terrifies  her  as  to  break  the  spell  that  has 
held  her  to  the  spot.  She  swiftly  moves  towards  the  porch ;  but  in 
an  instant  he  is  at  her  side,  and  speaking  in  her  ear. 

"  Rosa,  I  am  self-repressed  again.  I  am  walking  calmly  beside 
you  to  the  house.  I  shall  wait  for  some  encouragement  and  hope. 
I  shall  not  strike  too  soon.  Give  me  a  sign  that  you  attend 
to  me." 

She  slightly  and  constrainedly  moves  her  hand. 

"  Not  a  word  of  this  to  any  one,  or  it  will  bring  down  the  blow, 
as  certainly  as  night  follows  day.  Another  sign  that  you  attend 
to  me." 

She  moves  her  hand  once  more. 

"  I.  love  you,  love  you,  love  you.  If  you  were  to  cast  me  off  now 
— but  you  will  not — you  would  never  be  rid  of  me.  No  one  should 
come  between  us.     I  would  pursue  you  to  the  death." 

The  handmaid  coming  out  to  open  the  gate  for  him,  he  quietly 
pulls  off  his  hat  as  a  parting  salute,  and  goes  away  with  no 
greater  show  of  agitation  than  is  visible  in  the  efSgy  of  Mr.  Sapsea's 
father  opposite.  Eosa  faints  in  going  up-stairs,  and  is  carefully 
carried  to  her  room,  and  laid  down  on  her  bed.  A  thunderstorm 
is  coming  on,  the  maids  say,  and  the  hot  and  stifling  air  has 
overset  the  pretty  dear ;  no  wonder ;  they  have  felt  their  own 
knees  all  of  a  tremble  all  day  long. 


A   FLIGHT.  153 


CHAPTEE  XX. 


A   FLIGHT. 


Rosa  no  sooner  came  to  herself  than  the  whole  of  the  late  inter- 
view was  before  her.  It  even  seemed  as  if  it  had  pursued  her  into 
her  insensibility,  and  she  had  not  had  a  moment's  unconsciousness 
of  it.  What  to  do,  she  was  at  a  frightened  loss  to  know  :  the  only 
one  clear  thought  in  her  mind,  was,  that  she  must  fly  from  this 
terrible  man. 

But  where  could  she  take  refuge,  and  how  could  she  go  ?  She 
had  never  breathed  her  dread  of  him  to  any  one  but  Helena.  If 
she  went  to  Helena,  and  told  her  what  had  passed,  that  very  act 
might  bring  down  the  irreparable  mischief  that  he  threatened  he 
had  the  power,  and  that  she  knew  he  had  the  will,  to  do.  The 
more  fearful  he  appeared  to  her  excited  memory  and  imagination, 
the  more  alarming  her  responsibility  appeared :  seeing  that  a 
slight  mistake  on  her  part,  either  in  action  or  delay,  might  let 
his  malevolence  loose  on  Helena's  brother. 

Rosa's  mind  throughout  the  last  six  months  had  been  stormily 
confused.  A  half- formed,  wholly  unexpressed  suspicion  tossed  in  it, 
now  heaving  itself  up.  r'nd  now  sinking  into  the  deep  ;  now  gaining 
palpability,  and  now  losing  it.  Jasper's  self-absorption  in  his 
nephew  when  he  was  alive,  and  his  unceasing  pursuit  of  the  inquiry 
hoAV  he  came  by  his  death,  if  he  were  dead,  were  themes  so  rife  in 
the  place,  that  no  one  appeared  able  to  suspect  the  possibility  of 
foul  play  at  his  hands.  She  had  asked  herself  the  question, 
*'  Am  I  so  wicked  in  my  thoughts  as  to  conceive  a  wickedness 
that  others  cannot  imagine  ?"  Then  she  had  considered.  Did 
the  suspicion  come  of  her  previous  recoiling  from  him  before  the 
fact.  And  if  so,  was  not  that  a  proof  of  its  baselessness  ?  Then 
she  had  reflected,  "  What  motive  could  he  have,  according  to  my 
accusation  ?"  She  was  ashamed  to  answer  in  her  mind,  "  The 
motive  of  gaining  me  !"  And  covered  her  face,  as  if  the  lightest 
shadow  of  the  idea  of  founding  murder  on  such  an  idle  vanity 
were  a  crime  almost  as  great. 

She  ran  over  in  her  mind  again,  all  that  he  had  said  by  the 
sun-dial  in  the  garden.  He  had  persisted  in  treating  the  dis- 
appearance as  murder,  consistently  with  his  whole  public  course 
since  the  finding  of  the  watch  and  shirt-pin.  If  he  were  afraid 
of  the  crime  being  traced  out,  would  he  not  rather  encourage 
the  idea  of  a  voluntary  disappearance?  He  had  even  declared 
that  if  the  ties  between  him  and  his  nephew  had  been  less  stroug, 
he  might  have  swept  "  even  him  "  away  from  her  side.  Was  that 
like  his  having  really  done  so  ?  He  had  spoken  of  laying  his 
six  months'  labours  in  the  cause  of  a  just  vengeance  at  her  feet. 
Would  he  have  don-  that,  with  that  violence  of  passion,  if  they 
were  a  pretence  ?    W^ould  he  have  ranged  them  with  his  desolate 


154  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DrvOOD. 

heart  and  soul,  liis  wasted  life,  his  peace,  and  his  despair  ?  The 
very  first  sacrifice  that  he  represented  himself  as  making  for  her, 
was  his  fidelity  to  his  dear  boy  after  death.  Surely  these  facts 
were  strong  against  a  fancy  that  scarcely  dared  to  hint  itself.  And 
yet  he  was  so  terrible  a  man !  In  short,  the  poor  girl  (for  what 
could  she  know  of  the  criminal  intellect,  which  its  own  professed 
students  perpetually  misread,  because  they  persist  in  trying  to 
reconcile  it  with  the  average  intellect  of  average  men,  instead  of 
identifying  it  as  a  horrible  wonder  apart),  could  get  by  no  road 
to  any  other  conclusion  than  that  he  ims  a  terrible  man,  and  must 
be  fled  from. 

She  had  been  Helena's  stay  and  comfort  during  the  whole  time. 
She  had  constantly  assured  her  of  her  full  belief  in  her  brother's 
innocence,  and  of  her  sympathy  with  him  in  his  misery.  But  she 
had  never  seen  him  since  the  disappearance,  nor  hod  Helena  ever 
spoken  one  word  of  his  avowal  to  Mr.  Crisparkle  in  regard  of 
Rosa,  though  as  a  part  of  the  interest  of  the  case  it  was  well 
known  far  and  wide.  He  was  Helena's  unfortunate  brother,  to 
her,  and  nothing  more.  The  assurance  she  had  given  her  odious 
suitor  was  strictly  true,  though  it  would  have  been  better  (she 
considered  now)  if  she  could  have  restrained  herself  from  so 
giving  it.  Afraid  of  him  as  the  bright  and  delicate  little  creature 
was,  her  spirit  swelled  at  the  thought  of  his  knowing  it  from  ber 
own  lips. 

But  where  was  she  to  go  ?  Anywhere  beyond  his  reach,  was 
no  reply  to  the  question.  Somewhere  must  be  thought  of.  3he 
determined  to  go  to  her  guardian,  and  to  go  immediately.  The 
feeling  she  had  imparted  to  Helena  on  the  night  of  their  first  con- 
fidence, was  so  strong  upon  her — the  feeling  of  not  being  safe  from 
him,  and  of  the  solid  walls  of  the  old  convent  being  powerless  to  keep 
out  his  ghostly  following  of  her — that  no  reasoning  of  her  0"\vn  could 
calm  her  terrors.  The  fascination  of  repulsion  had  been  upon  her 
so  long,  and  now  culminated  so  darkly,  that  she  felt  as  if  he  had 
power  to  bind  her  by  a  spell.  Glancing  out  at  window,  even  now,  as 
she  rose  to  dress,  the  sight  of  the  sun-dial  on  which  he  had  leaned 
when  he  declared  himself,  turned  her  cold,  and  made  her  shrink 
from  it,  as  though  he  had  invested  it  with  some  awful  quality 
from  his  own  nature. 

She  wrote  a  hurried  note  to  Miss  Twinkleton,  saying  that  she 
had  sudden  reason  for  wishing  to  see  her  guardian  promptly,  and 
liad  gone  to  him ;  also,  entreating  the  good  lady  not  to  be  uneasy, 
for  all  was  well  with  her.  She  hurried  a  few  quite  useless  articles 
into  a  very  little  bag,  left  the  note  in  a  conspicuous  place,  and 
went  out,  softly  closing  the  gate  after  her. 

It  was  the  first  time  she  had  ever  been  even  in  Cloisterham 
High  Street,  alone.  But  knowing  all  its  ways  and  windings  very 
well,  she  hurried  straight  to  the  corner  from  which  the  omnibus 
departed.     It  was,  at  that  very  moment,  going  oft\ 

"  Stop  and  take  me,  if  you  please,  Joe.  I  am  obliged  to  go  to 
London." 

In  less  than  another  minute  she  wns  on  her  road  to  the  railway, 


A   FLIGHT.  155 

under  Joe's  protection.  Joe  waited  on  her  when  she  got  there» 
put  her  safely  into  the  railway  carriage,  and  handed  in  the  very 
little  bag  after  her,  as  though  it  were  some  enormous  trunk, 
hundredweights  heavy,  which  she  must  on  no  account  endeavour 
to  lift. 

"  Can  you  go  round  when  you  get  back,  and  tell  Miss  Twinkleton 
that  you  saw  me  safely  off,  Joe  ?" 

"  It  shall  be  done.  Miss." 

"  AVith  my  love,  please,  Joe." 

"  Yes,  Miss— and  I  wouldn't  mind  having  it  myself!"  But  Joe 
did  not  articulate  the  last  clause ;  only  thought  it. 

Now  that  she  was  whirling  away  for  London  in  real  earnest, 
Eosa  was  at  leisure  to  resume  the  thoughts  which  her  personal 
hurry  had  checked.  The  indignant  thought  that  his  declaration 
of  love  soiled  her ;  that  she  could  only  be  cleansed  from  the  stain 
of  its  impurity  b}^  appealing  to  the  honest  and  true ;  supported 
her  for  a  time  against  her  fears,  and  confirmed  her  in  her  hastv 

CD  '  %.' 

resolution.  But  as  the  evening  grew  darker  and  darker,  and  the 
great  city  impended  nearer  and  nearer,  the  doubts  usual  in  such 
cases  began  to  arise.  Whether  this  was  not  a  wild  proceeding- 
after  all ;  how  Mr.  Grewgious  might  regard  it ;  whether  she 
should  find  him  at  the  journey's  end ;  how  she  would  act  if  he^ 
were  absent ;  what  might  become  of  her,  alone,  in  a  place  so 
strange  and  crowded;  how  if  she  had  but  waited  and  taken 
counsel  first ;  whether,  if  she  could  now  go  back,  she  would  not 
do  it  thankfully :  a  multitude  of  such  uneasy  speculations  dis- 
turbed her,  more  and  more  as  they  accumulated.  At  length  the 
train  came  into  London  over  the  housetops ;  and  down  below 
lay  the  gritty  streets  with  their  yet  un-needed  lamps  aglow,  on  a 
hot  light  summer  night. 

"  Hiram  Grewgious,  Esquire,  Staple  Inn,  London."  This  was 
all  Rosa  knew  of  her  destination  ;  but  it  was  enough  to  send  her 
rattling  away  again  in  a  cab,  through  deserts  of  gritty  streets, 
where  many  people  crowded  at  the  corners  of  courts  and  byways  to 
get  some  air,  and  where  xiany  other  people  walked  with  a  miserably 
naonotonous  noise  of  shuffling  feet  on  hot  paving-stones,  and  where 
all  the  people  and  all  their  surroundings  were  so  gritty  and  so 
shabb}'. 

There  was  music  playing  here  and  there,  but  it  did  not  enliven 
the  case,  No  barrel-organ  mended  the  matter,  and  no  big  drum 
beat  dull  care  away.  Like  the  chapel  bells  that  were  also  going 
here  and  there,  they  only  seemed  to  evoke  echoes  from  brick 
surfaces,  and  dust  from  everything.  As  to  the  flat  wind  instru- 
ments, they  seemed  to  have  cracked  their  hearts  and  souls  in 
pining  for  the  country. 

Her  jingling  conveyance  stopped  at  last  at  a  fast-closed  gate- 
way which  appeared  to  belong  to  somebody  who  had  gone  to  bed 
very  early,  and  was  much  afraid  of  housebreakers ;  Eosa,  dis- 
charging her  conveyance,  timidly  knocked  at  this  gateway,  and 
Avas  let  in,  very  little  bag  and  all,  by  a  watchman. 

"Does  Mr.  Grewgious  live  here?" 


166  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDVV^IN   DROOD. 

"  Mr.  Grewgious  lives  there,  Miss,"  said  the  watchman,  pointing 
further  in. 

3o  Rosa  went  further  in,  and,  when  the  clocks  were  striking  ten, 
stood  on  P.  J.  T.'s  doorsteps,  wondering  what  P.  J.  T.  had  done 
with  his  street  door. 

Guided  by  the  painted  name  of  Mr.  Grewgious,  she  went  up- 
stairs and  softly  tapped  and  tapped  several  times.  But  no  one 
answering,  and  Mr.  Grewgious's  door-handle  yielding  to  her 
touch,  she  went  in,  and  saw  her  guardian  sitting  on  a  window- 
seat  at  an  open  window,  with  a  shaded  lamp  placed  far  from  him 
on  a  table  in  a  corner. 

Eosa  drew  nearer  to  him  in  the  twilight  of  the  room.  He  saw 
lier,  and  he  said  in  an  under-tone :  "  Good  Heaven  !" 

Eosa  fell  upon  his  neck,  with  tears,  and  then  he  said,  returning 
her  embrace : 

"  My  child,  my  child !  I  thought  you  were  your  mother !" 

"  But  Avliat,  what,  what,"  he  added,  soothingly,  "  has  happened  ? 
^ly  dear,  what  has  brought  you  here  ?  Who  has  brought  you 
here  ?" 

"  No  one.     I  came  alone." 

"Lord  bless  me!"  ejaculated  Mr.  Grewgious.  "Came  alone! 
Why  didn't  you  write  to  me  to  come  and  fetch  you  ?" 

"  I  had  no  time.  I  took  a  sudden  resolution.  Poor,  poor 
Eddy !" 

"Ah,  poor  fellow,  poor  fellow!" 

"  His  uncle  has  made  love  to  me.  I  cannot  bear  it,"  said  Eosa, 
at  once  with  a  burst  of  tears,  and  a  stamp  of  her  little  foot;  "I 
shudder  with  horror  of  him,  and  I  have  come  to  you  to  protect  me 
and  all  of  us  from  him,  if  joii  will  ?" 

"  I  will !"  cried  Mr.  Grewgious,  with  a  sudden  rush  of  amazing 
energy.     "  Damn  him  ! 

"  ConfouHcl  Ill's  politics. 
Frustrate  liis  knavish  tricks ! 
On  Thee  liis  hopes  to  fix  ? 
Damn  him  again !" 

After  this  most  extraordinary  outburst,  Mr.  Grewgious,  quite 
]3eside  himself,  plunged  about  the  room,  to  all  appearance  undecided 
whether  he  was  in  a  fit  of  loyal  enthusiasm,  or  combative  de- 
nunciation. 

He  stopped  and  said,  wiping  his  face  :  "  I  beg  your  pardon,  my 
dear,  but  you  will  be  glad  to  know  I  feel  better.  Tell  me  no  more 
just  now,  or  I  might  do  it  again.  You  must  be  refreshed  and 
cheered.  What  did  joii  take  last  ?  Was  it  breakfast,  lunch, 
dinner,  tea,  or  supper  ?  And  what  will  you  take  next?  Shall  it 
be  breakfast,  lunch,  dinner,  tea,  or  supper  ?" 

The  respectful  tenderness  with  which,  on  one  knee  before  her, 
lie  helped  her  to  remove  her  hat,  and  disentangle  her  pretty  hair 
from  it,  was  quite  a  chivalrous  sight.  Yet  who,  knowing  him 
only  on  the  surface,  would  have  expected  chivalry — and  of  the 
true  sort,  too  :  not  the  spurious — from  Mr.  Grewgious  ? 


o 

H 
< 

W 


W 

I— ( 

w 

a, 

>^ 

w 

O 

I— I 

o 
w 

O 


A    FLIGHT.  157 

"  Your  rest  too  must  be  provided  for,"  he  went  on ;  "  and  you 
shall  have  the  prettiest  chamber  in  Furnival's.  Your  toilet  must 
be  provided  for,  and  you  shall  have  everything  that  an  unlimited 
head  chambermaid — by  which  expression  I  mean  a  head  chamber- 
maid not  limited  as  to  outlay — can  procure.  Is  that  a  bag  ?"  ho 
looked  hard  at  it ;  sooth  to  say,  it  required  hard  looking  at  to> 
be  seen  at  all  in  a  dimly-lighted  room  :  "  and  is  it  your  property, 
my  dear?" 

"  Yes,  sir.     I  brought  it  with  me." 

"  It  is  not  an  extensive  bag,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  candidly, 
"  though  admirably  calculated  to  contain  a  day's  provision  for  a 
canary  bird.     Perhaps  you  brought  a  canary  bird  ?" 
Kosa  smiled,  and  shook  her  head. 

"  If  you  had  he  should  have  been  made  welcome,"  said  Mr. 
Grewgious,  "  and  I  think  he  would  have  been  pleased  to  be  hung 
upon  a  nail  outside  and  pit  himself  against  our  Staple  sparrows ; 
whose  execution  must  be  admitted  to  be  not  quite  equal  to  their 
intention.  Which  is  the  case  with  so  many  of  us !  You  didn't 
say  what  meal,  my  dear.     Have  a  nice  jumble  of  all  meals." 

Eosa  thanked  him,  but  said  she  could  only  take  a  cup  of  tea. 
Mr.  Grewgious,  after  several  times  running  out,  and  in  again,  to 
mention  such  supplementary  items  as  marmalade,  eggs,  water- 
cresses,  salted  fish,  and  frizzled  ham,  ran  across  to  Furnival's 
without  his  hat,  to  give  his  various  directions.  And  soon  after- 
wards they  were  realised  in  practice,  and  the  board  was  spread. 

"  Lord  bless  my  soul !"  cried  Mr.  Grewgious,  putting  the  lamp 
upon  it,  and  taking  his  seat  opposite  Eosa  ;  "  what  a  new  sensa- 
tion for  a  poor  old  Angular  bachelor,  to  be  sare !" 

Eosa's  expressive  little  eyebrows  asked  him  what  he  meant  ? 

*'  The  sensation  of  having  a  sweet  young  presence  in  the  place 
that  whitewashes  it,  paints  it,  papers  it,  decorates  it  with  gilding, 
and  makes  it  Glorious!"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "Ah  me!  Ah 
me!" 

As  there  was  something  mournful  in  his  sigh,  Eosa,  in  touching 
him  with  his  tea-cup,  ventured  to  touch  him  with  her  small  hand 
too. 

"  Thank  you,  my  dear,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  Ahem !  Let's 
talk." 

"  Do  you  always  live  here,  sir?"  asked  Eosa. 

"  Yes,  my  dear." 

"  And  alwaj^s  alone?" 

"  Always  alone ;  except  that  I  have  daily  company  in  a  gentle- 
man by  the  name  of  Bazzard  ;  my  clerk." 

"  iZ"«  doesn't  live  here  ?" 

"  No,  he  goes  his  ways  after  office  hours.  In  fact,  he  is  off'  duty 
here,  altogether, just  at  present;  and  a  Firm  down  stairs  with 
which  I  have  business  relations,  lend  me  a  substitute.  But  it 
would  be  extremely  difficult  to  replace  Mr.  Bazzard." 

"  He  must  be  very  fond  of  you,"  said  Eosa. 

"He  bears  up  against  it  with  commendable  fortitude  if  ho  is," 
returned  Mr.  Grewgio\is,  after  considering  the  matter.     "  But  I 


158  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

doubt  if  he  is.     Not  particularly  so.     You  see,  lie  is  discontented, 
poor  fellow." 

*'  Why  isn't  he  contented  ?"  was  the  natural  inquiry. 

"  Misplaced,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  with  great  mystery. 

Eosa's  eyebrows  resumed  their  inquisitive  and  perplexed  ex- 
pression. 

"  So  misplaced,"  Mr.  Grewgious  went  on,  "  that  I  feel  con- 
stantly apologetic  towards  him.  And  he  feels  (though  he  doesn't 
mention  it)  that  I  have  reason  to  be." 

Mr.  Grewgious  had  by  this  time  grown  so  very  mysterious,  that 
Hosa  did  not  know  how  to  go  on.  While  she  was  thinking  about 
it  Mr.  Grewgious  suddenly  jerked  out  of  himself  for  the  second 
tim-e : 

"  Let's  talk.  We  were  speaking  of  Mr.  Bazzard.  It's  a  secret, 
and  moreover  it  is  Mr.  Bazzard's  secret ;  but  the  sweet  presence 
at  my  table  makes  me  so  unusually  expansive,  that  I  feel  I 
must  impart  it  in  inviolable  confidence.  What  do  you  think 
Mr.  Bazzard  has  done  ?" 

"  Oh  dear !"  cried  Eosa,  drawing  her  chair  a  little  nearer,  and 
her  mind  reverting  to  Jasper,  "  nothing  dreadful,  I  hope  ?" 

"He  has  written  a  play,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  in  a  solemn 
Avhisper.     "  A  tragedy." 

Eosa  seemed  much  relieved. 

"  And  nobody,"  pursued  Mr.  GreAvgious  in  the  same  tone,  "  will 
hear,  on  any  account  whatever,  of  bringing  it  out." 

Eosa  looked  reflective,  and  nodded  her  head  slowly ;  as  who 
should  say :  "  Such  things  are,  and  why  are  they  !" 

"  Now,  3^ou  know,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  I  couldn't  write  a 
play." 

"  Not  a  bad  one,  sir  ?"  asked  Eosa,  innocently,  with  her  eye- 
brows again  in  action. 

"  No.  If  I  was  under  sentence  of  decapitation,  and  was  about 
to  be  instantly  decapitated,  and  an  express  arrived  with  a  pardon 
for  the  condemned  convict  Grewgious  if  he  wrote  a  play,  I  should 
be  under  the  necessity  of  resuming  the  block  and  begging  the 
executioner  to  proceed  to  extremities, — meaning,"  said  Mr.  Grew- 
gious, passing  his  hand  under  his  chin,  "  the  singular  number,  and 
this  extremity." 

Eosa  appeared  to  consider  what  she  would  do  if  the  awkward 
supposititious  case  were  hers. 

"  Consequently,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  Mr.  Bazzard  would  have 
a  sense  of  my  inferiority  to  himself  under  any  circumstances ;  but 
when  I  am  his  master,  you  know,  the  case  is  greatly  aggravated." 

Mr.  Grewgious  shook  his  head  seriousl}^  as  if  he  felt  the  offence 
to  be  a  little  too  much,  though  of  his  own  committing. 

"  How  came  you  to  be  his  master,  sir  ?"  asked  Eosa. 

"A  question  that  naturally  follows,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious. 
"  Let's  talk.  Mr.  Bazzard's  father,  being  a  Norfolk  farmer,  would 
have  furiously  laid  about  him  with  a  flail,  a  pitchfork,  and  every 
agricultural  implement  available  for  assaulting  purposes,  on  the 
slightest  hint  of  his  son's  having  written  a  play.     So  the  son, 


A   FLIGHT.  159 

bringing  to  me  tlie  father's  rent  (wliicli  I  receive),  imparted  his 
secret,  and  pointed  out  that  he  was  determined  to  pursue  his 
genius,  and  that  it  would  put  him  in  peril  of  starvation,  and  that 
he  was  not  formed  for  it." 

"  For  pursuing  his  genius,  sir  ?" 

*'  No,  my  dear,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  for  starvation.  It  was 
impossible  to  deny  the  position  that  Mr.  Bazzard  was  not  formed 
to  be  starved,  and  Mr.  Bazzard  then  pointed  out  that  it  was 
desirable  that  I  should  stand  between  him  and  a  fate  so  perfectly 
unsuited  to  his  formation.  In  that  way  Mr.  Bazzard  became  my 
clerk,  and  he  feels  it  very  much." 

"  I  am  glad  he  is  grateful,"  said  Rosa. 

*'I  didn't  quite  mean  that,  my  dear.  I  mean  that  he 
feels  the  degradation.  There  are  some  other  geniuses  that 
Mr.  Bazzard  has  become  acquainted  with,  who  have  also  written 
tragedies,  w^hich  likewise  nobody  will  on  any  account  whate^^er 
hear  of  bringing  out,  and  these  choice  spirits  dedicate  their  plays 
to  one  another  in  a  highly  panegyrical  manner.  Mr.  Bazzard  has 
l^een  the  subject  of  one  of  these  dedications.  Now,  you  know,  I 
never  had  a  play  dedicated  to  me  /" 

Eosa  looked  at  him  as  if  she  would  have  liked  him  to  be  the 
recij^ient  of  a  thousand  dedications. 

*■'  Which  again,  naturally,  rubs  against  the  grain  of  Mr. 
Bazzard,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "He  is  very  short  with  me 
sometimes,  and  then  I  feel  that  he  is  meditating  '  This  blockhead 
is  my  master !  A  fellow  who  couldn't  write  a  traged}^  on  pain  of 
death,  and  who  will  never  have  one  dedicated  to  him  with  the 
most  complimentary  congratulations  on  the  high  position  he  has 
taken  in  the  eyes  of  posterity !'  Very  tr^'ing,  very  trying.  How- 
ever, in  giving  him  directions,  I  reflect  beforehand :  *  Perhaps  he 
may  not  like  this,'  or  '  He  might  take  it  ill  if  I  asked  that,'  and  so 
we  get  on  very  well.     Indeed,  better  than  I  could  have  expected." 

"  Is  the  tragedy  named,  sir  ?"  asked  Eosa. 

"  Strictly  between  ourselves,"  answered  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  it  has 
ii  dreadfull}'  appropriate  name.  It  is  called  The  Thorn  of  Anxiety. 
But  Mr.  Bazzard  hopes — and  I  hope — that  it  will  come  out  at 
last." 

It  was  not  hard  to  divine  that  Mr.  Grewgious  had  related  the 
Bazzard  history  thus  fully,  at  least  quite  as  much  for  the  recrea- 
tion of  his  ward's  mind  from  the  subject  that  had  driven  her  there, 
as  for  the  gratification  of  his  own  tendency  to  be  social  and  com- 
municative. "  And  now,  my  dear,"  he  said  at  this  point,  "  if  you 
are  not  too  tired  to  tell  me  more  of  what  passed  to-day — but  only 
if  you  feel  quite  able — I  should  be  glad  to  hear  it.  I  may  digest 
it  the  better,  if  I  slee})  on  it  to-night." 

Eosa,  composed  now,  gave  him  a  faithful  account  of  the  inter- 
view. Mr.  Grewgious  often  smoothed  his  head  while  it  was  in 
progress,  and  begged  to  be  told  a  second  time  those  parts  which 
bore  on  Helena  and  Neville.  When  Eosa  had  finished,  he  sat, 
grave,  silent,  and  meditative,  for  a  while. 

"  Clearly  narrated,"  was  his  only  remark  at  last,  "  and,  I  hope, 


160  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

clearly  put  away  here,"  smoothing  his  head  again :  "  See,  my 
dear,"  taking  her  to  the  open  window,  "  where  they  live !  Tlia 
dark  windows  over  yonder." 

"  I  may  go  to  Helena  to-morrow  ?"  asked  Rosa. 

*'  I  should  like  to  sleep  on  that  question  to-night,"  he  answered, 
doubtfully.  "  But  let  me  take  you  to  your  own  rest,  for  you  must 
need  it." 

With  that,  Mr.  Grewgious  helped  her  to  get  her  hat  on  again,  and 
hung  upon  his  arm  the  very  little  bag  that  was  of  no  earthly  use, 
and  led  her  by  the  hand  (with  a  certain  stately  awkwardness,  as  if 
he  were  going  to  walk  a  minuet)  across  Holborn,  and  into  Furni- 
val's  Inn.  At  the  hotel  door,  he  confided  her  to  the  Unlimited  head 
chambermaid,  and  said  that  while  she  went  up  to  see  her  room,  he 
would  remain  below,  in  case  she  should  wish  it  exchanged  for 
another,  or  should  find  that  there  was  anything  she  wanted. 

Rosa's  room  was  airy,  clean,  comfortable,  almost  gay.  The 
Unlimited  had  laid  in  everything  omitted  from  the  very  little  bag 
(that  is  to  say,  everything  she  could  possibly  need),  and  Rosa 
tripped  down  the  great  many  stairs  again,  to  thank  her  guardian 
for  his  thoughtful  and  affectionate  care  of  her. 

"  Not  at  all,  my  dear,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  infinitely  gratified  ; 
"  it  is  I  who  thank  jou  for  your  charming  confidence  and  for  your 
charming  company.  Your  breakfast  will  be  provided  for  you  in  a 
neat,  comjDact,  and  graceful  little  sitting-room  (appropriate  to 
your  figure),  and  I  will  come  to  you  at  ten  o'clock  in  the  morn- 
ing. I  hope  you  don't  feel  very  strange  indeed,  in  this  strange 
place." 

"  Oh  no,  I  feel  so  safe  !" 

"  Yes,  you  may  be  sure  that  the  stairs  are  fire-proof,"  said  Mr. 
Grewgious,  "  and  that  any  outbreak  of  the  devouring  element 
would  be  perceived  and  suppressed  by  the  watchmen." 

"  I  did  not  mean  that,"  Rosa  replied.  "  I  mean,  I  feel  so  safe 
from  him." 

"  There  is  a  stout  gate  of  iron  bars  to  keep  him  out,"  said  Mr. 
Grewgious,  smiling,  "  and  Furnival's  is  fire-proof  and  specially 
watched  and  lighted,  and  I  live  over  the  way !"  In  the  stoutness 
of  his  knight-errantry,  he  seemed  to  think  the  last-named  protec- 
tion all-sufficient.  In  the  same  spirit,  he  said  to  the  gate-porter  as 
he  went  out,  "  If  some  one  staying  in  the  hotel  should  wish  to  send 
across  the  road  to  me  in  the  night,  a  crown  will  be  ready  for  the 
messenger."  In  the  same  spirit,  he  walked  up  and  down  outsido 
the  iron  gate  for  the  best  part  of  an  hour,  with  some  solicitude : 
occasionally  looking  in  between  the  bars,  as  if  he  had  laid  a  dove 
in  a  high  roost  in  a  cage  of  lions,  and  had  it  on  his  mind  that  she 
might  tumble  out. 


THE   MYSTEKY    OF    EDWIN    DROOD.  IGl 

CHAPTEK  XXI. 

A   EECOGNITION. 

Nothing  occurred  in  the  night  to  flutter  the  tired  dove,  and  the 
dove  arose  refreshed.  With  Mr.  Grewgious  Avhen  the  clock  struck 
ten  in  the  morning,  came  Mr.  Crisparkle,  who  had  come  at  one 
plunge  out  of  the  river  at  Cloisterham. 

"  Miss  Twinkleton  was  so  uneasy,  Miss  Rosa,"  he  explained  to 
her,  "  and  came  round  to  Ma  and  me  with  your  note,  in  such  a 
state  of  wonder,  that,  to  quiet  her,  I  volunteered  on  this  service  by 
the  very  first  train  to  be  caught  in  the  morning.  I  wished  at  the 
time  that  you  had  come  to  me ;  but  now  I  think  it  best  that  you 
did  as  you  did,  and  came  to  your  guardian." 

"  I  did  think  of  vou,"  Eosa  told  him  :  "  but  Minor  Canon  Corner 
was  so  near  him " 

"  I  understand.     It  was  quite  natural." 

"  I  have  told  Mr,  Crisparkle,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  all  that  you 
told  me  last  night,  my  dear.  Of  course  I  should  have  written 
it  to  him  immediately;  but  his  coming  was  most  opportune. 
And  it  was  particularly  kind  of  him  to  come,  for  he  had  but  just 
gone." 

"  Have  you  settled,"  asked  Rosa,  appealing  to  them  both,  "  what 
is  to  be  done  for  Helena  and  her  brother  ?" 

"  Why  really,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  I  am  in  great  perplexity. 
If  even  Mr.  Grewgious,  whose  head  is  much  longer  than  mine  and 
who  is  a  whole  night's  cogitation  in  advance  of  me,  is  undecided, 
what  must  I  be !" 

The  Unlimited  here  put  her  head  in  at  the  door — after  having 
rapped,  and  been  authorized  to  present  herself — announcing  that  a 
gentleman  wished  for  a  word  with  another  gentleman  named 
Crisparkle,  if  any  such  gentleman  were  there.  If  no  such  gentle- 
man were  there,  he  begged  pardon  for  being  mistaken. 

"  Such  a  gentleman  is  here,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  "  but  is  en- 
gaged just  now." 

"  Is  it  a  dark  gentleman  ?"  interposed  Rosa,  retreating  on  her 
guardian. 

"  No,  Miss,  more  of  a  brown  gentleman." 

"  You  are  sure  not  with  black  hair  ?"  asked  Rosa,  taking- 
courage. 

"  Quite  sure  of  that.  Miss.     Brown  hair  and  blue  eyes." 

"  Perhaps,"  hinted  Mr.  Grewgious,  with  habitral  caution,  "  it 
might  be  well  to  see  him,  reverend  sir,  if  you  don't  object.  AVhen 
one  is  in  a  difficulty,  or  at  a  loss,  one  never  knows  in  what  direc- 
tion a  way  out  may  chance  to  open.  It  is  a  business  principle 
of  mine,  in  such  a  case,  not  to  close  up  any  direction,  but  to  keep 
an  eye  on  every  direction  that  may  present  itself.  I  could  relate  an 
anecdote  in  point,  but  that  it  would  be  premature." 

"  If  Miss  Rosa  will  allow  me  then  ?  Let  the  gentleman  come  in." 
said  Mr.  Crisparkle. 

The  gentleman  came  in ;  aj^ologised,  with  a  frank  but   modest 

M 


162  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

grace,  for  not  finding  Mr.  Crisparlde  alone ;  turned  to  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle,  and  smilingly  asked  the  unexpected  question :  "  AVlio 
am  I  ?" 

"  You  are  the  gentleman  I  saw  smoking  under  the  trees  in 
Staple  Inn  a  few  minutes  ago." 

"  True.     There  I  saw  you.     Who  else  am  I  ?" 

Mr.  Crisparlde  concentrated  his  attention  on  a  handsome  face» 
much  sunburt ;  and  the  ghost  of  some  departed  boy  seemed  to  rise, 
gradually  and  dimly,  in  the  room. 

The  gentleman  saw  a  struggling  recollection  lighten  up  the  Minor 
Canon's  features,  and  smiling  again,  said :  "  What  will  3^ou  have 
for  breakfast  this  morning  ?  .  You  are  out  of  jam." 

"  Wait  a  moment !"  cried  Mr.  Crisparkle,  raising  his  right  hand. 
"  Give  me  another  instant !     Tartar  !" 

'i  he  two  shook  hands  with  the  greatest  heartiness,  and  then  went 
the  wonderful  length — for  Englishmen — of  laying  their  hands  each 
on  the  other's  shoulders,  and  looking  joyfully  each  into  the  other's 
face. 

"  My  old  fag  !"  said  Mr.  Crisparlde. 

"  My  old  master  !"  said  Mr.  Tartar. 

"You  saved  me  from  drowning!"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle. 

"  After  which  you  took  to  swimming,  jou  know !"  said  Mr» 
Tartar. 

"  God  bless  my  soul !"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle. 

"  Amen  !"  said  Mr.  Tartar. 

And  then  they  fell  to  shaking  hands  most  heartily  again. 

"  Imagine,"  exclaimed  Mr.  Crisparkle,  with  glistening  eyes  : 
"  Miss  Eosa  Bud  and  Mr.  Grewgious,  imagine  Mr.  Tartar,  when 
he  was  the  smallest  of  juniors,  diving  for  me,  catching  me,  a  big 
heavy  senior,  by  the  hair  of  the  head,  and  striking  out  for  the 
shore  with  me  like  a  water-giant !" 

''  Imagine  my  not  letting  him  sink,  as  I  was  his  fag  !"  said 
Mr.  Tartar.  "  But  the  truth  being  that  he  was  my  best  protector 
and  friend,  and  did  me  more  good  than  all  the  masters  put  toge- 
ther, an  irrational  impulse  seized  me  to  pick  him  up,  or  go  down 
with  him." 

"  Hem !  Permit  me,  sir,  to  have  the  honor,"  said  Mr.  Grew- 
gious, advancing  with  extended  hand,  "  for  an  honor  I  truly 
esteem  it.  I  am  proud  to  make  your  acquaintance.  I  hope  you 
didn't  take  cold.  I  hope  you  were  not  inconvenienced  by  swallowing 
too  much  water.     How  have  you  been  since  ?" 

It  was  by  no  means  apparent  that  Mr.  Grewgious  knew  what 
he  said,  though  it  was  very  apparent  that  he  meant  to  say  some- 
thing highly  friendly  and  appreciative. 

If  Heaven,  Eosa  thought,  had  but  sent  such  courage  and  skill 
to  her  poor  mother's  aid !  And  he  to  have  been  so  slight  and 
young  then ! 

"  I  don't  wish  to  be  comjDlimented  upon  it,  I  thank  you,  but  I 
think  I  have  an  idea,"  Mr.  Grewgious  announced,  after  taking  a  jog- 
trot or  two  across  the  room,  so  unexpected  and  unaccountable  that 
they  had  all  stared  at  him,  doubtful  whether  he  was  choking  or 
had  the  cramp.     "  I  thiitk  I  have  an  idea.     I  believe  I  have  had  the 


A   RECOGNITION.  163 

pleasure  of  seeing  Mr.  Tartar's  name  as  tenant  of  the  top  set  in 
the  house  next  the  top  set  in  the  corner  ?" 

"  Yes,  sir,"  returned  Mr.  Tartar.     "  You  ai-e  right  so  far." 

"  I  am  right  so  far,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious.  "  Tick  that  off," 
which  he  did,  with  his  right  thumb  on  his  left.  "  Might  you 
happen  to  know  the  name  of  your  neighbour  in  the  top  set  on  the 
other  side  of  the  party-wall  ?"  coming  very  close  to  Mr.  Tartar,  to 
lose  nothing  of  his  face,  in  his  shortness  of  sight. 

"  Landless." 

"  Tick  that  off,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  taking  another  trot,  and 
then  coming  back.     "  No  personal  knowledge,  I  suppose,  sir  ?" 

"  Slight,  but  some." 

"  Tick  that  off,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  taking  another  trot,  and 
again  coming  back.     "  Nature  of  knowledge,  Mr.  Tartar  ?" 

"  I  thought  he  seemed  to  be  a  young  fellow  in  a  poor  way,  and  I 
asked  his  leave — only  within  a  day  or  so — to  share  my  flowers  up 
there  with  him ;  that  is  to  say,  to  extend  my  flower-garden  to  his 
windows." 

*'  Would  you  have  the  kindness  to  take  seats?"  said  Mr.  Grew- 
gious.    "  I  have  an  idea  !" 

They  complied ;  Mr.  Tartar  none  the  less  readily,  for  being  all 
abroad ;  and  Mr.  Grewgious,  seated  in  the  centre,  with  his  hands 
upon  his  knees,  thus  stated  his  idea,  with  his  usual  manner  of 
having  got  the  statement  by  heart. 

"  I  cannot  as  yet  make  up  my  mind  whether  it  is  prudent  to 
hold  open  communication  under  present  circumstances,  and  on  the 
part  of  the  fair  member  of  the  present  company,  with  Mr.  Neville 
or  Miss  Helena.  I  have  reason  to  know  that  a  local  friend  of  ours 
(on  whom  I  beg  to  bestow  a  passing  but  a  hearty  malediction,  with 
the  kind  permission  of  my  reverend  friend)  sneaks  to  and  fro,  and 
dodges  up  and  down.  When  not  doing  so  himself,  he  may  have 
some  informant  skulking  about,  in  the  person  of  a  watchman, 
porter,  or  such-like  hanger-on  of  Staple.  On  the  other  hand, 
Miss  Eosa  very  naturally  wishes  to  see  her  friend  Miss  Helena, 
and  it  would  seem  important  that  at  least  Miss  Helena  (if  not  her 
brother  too,  through  her)  should  privately  know  from  Miss  Rosa's 
lips  what  has  occurred,  and  what  has  been  threatened.  Am  I 
agreed  with  generally  in  the  views  I  take  ?" 

"  I  entirely  coincide  with  them,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle,  who  had 
been  very  attentive. 

"As  I  have  no  doubt  I  should,"  added  Mr.  Tartar,  smiling, 
"  if  I  understood  them." 

"  Fair  and  softly,  sir,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious ;  "  we  shall  fully 
confide  in  you  directly,  if  you  will  favor  us  with  your  permission. 
Now,  if  our  local  friend  should  have  any  informant  on  the  spot, 
it  is  tolerably  clear  that  such  informant  can  only  be  set  to  watch 
the  chambers  in  the  occupation  of  Mr.  Neville.  He  reporting,  to 
our  local  friend,  who  comes  and  goes  there,  our  local  friend  would 
supply  for  himself,  from  his  own  previous  knowledge,  the  identity 
of  the  parties.  Nobody  can  be  set  to  watch  all  Staple,  or  to 
concern  himself  with  comers  and  goers  to  other  sets  of  chambers  : 
unless,  indeed,  mine." 

M  2 


164  THE    MYSTERY    OF    EDWIN   DROOD. 

"  I  begin  to  understand  to  what  you  tend,"  said  Mr.  Crisparkle, 
"  and  highly  approve  of  your  caution." 

"  I  needn't  repeat  that  I  know  nothing  yet  of  the  why  and 
wherefore,"  said  Mr.  Tartar ;  "  but  I  also  understood  to  what  you 
tend,  so  let  me  say  at  once  that  my  chambers  are  freely  at  your 
disposal." 

"  There !"  cried  Mr.  Grewgious,  smoothing  his  head  triumph- 
antly.    "  Now  we  have  all  got  the  idea.     You  have  it,  my  dear  ?" 

"  I  think  I  have,"  said  Kosa,  blushing  a  little  as  Mr.  Tartar 
looked  quickly  towards  her. 

"  You  see,  you  go  over  to  Staple  with  Mr.  Cris23arkle  and 
Mr.  Tartar,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious ;  "  I  going  in  and  out  and  out 
and  in,  alone,  in  my  usual  way  ;  you  go  up  with  those  gentlemen 
to  Mr.  Tartar's  rooms ;  you  look  into  Mr.  Tartar's  flower-garden ; 
you  wait  for  Miss  Helena's  appearance  there,  or  you  signify  to 
Miss  Helena  that  you  are  close  by ;  and  you  communicate  with  her 
freely,  and  no  spy  can  be  the  wiser," 

"  I  am  very  much  afraid  I  shall  be " 

"  Be  what,  my  dear  ?"  asked  Mr.  Grewgious,  as  she  hesitated. 
"  Not  frightened  ?" 

"  No,  not  that,"  said  Rosa,  shyly  ; — "  in  Mr.  Tartar's  way.  We 
seem  to  be  appropriating  Mr.  Tartar's  residence  so  very  coolly." 

"  I  protest  to  you,"  returned  that  gentleman,  "  that  I  shall  think 
the  better  of  it  for  evermore,  if  your  voice  sounds  in  it  only 
once." 

Eosa  not  quite  knowing  what  to  say  about  that,  cast  down  her 
eyes,  and  turning  to  Mr.  Grewgious,  dutifully  asked  if  she  should 
put  her  hat  on  ?  Mr.  Grewgious  being  of  opinion  that  she  could 
not  do  better,  she  withdrew  for  the  purpose.  Mr.  Crisparkle  took 
the  opportunity  of  giving  Mr.  Tartar  a  summary  of  the  distresses 
of  Neville  and  his  sister ;  the  opportunity  was  quite  long  enough, 
as  the  hat  happened  to  require  a  little  extra  fitting  on. 

Mr.  Tartar  gave  his  arm  to  Eosa,  and  Mr.  Crisparkle  walked, 
detached,  in  front. 

"  Poor,  poor  Eddy  !"  thought  Eosa,  as  they  went  along. 

Mr.  Tartar  waived  his  right  hand  as  he  bent  his  head  down 
over  Eosa,  talking  in  an  animated  way. 

"It  was  not  so  powerful  or  so  sun-browned  when  it  saved 
Mr.  Crisparkle,"  thought  Eosa,  glancing  at  it ;  "  but  it  must  have 
been  very  steady  and  determined  even  then." 

Mr.  Tartar  told  her  he  had  been  a  sailor,  roving  everywhere 
for  years  and  years. 

"  When  are  you  going  to  sea  again  ?"  asked  Eosa. 

"  Never !" 

Eosa  wondered  what  the  girls  would  say  if  they  could  see  her 
crossing  the  wide  street  on  the  sailor's  arm.  And  she  fancied  that 
the  passers-by  must  think  her  very  little  and  very  helpless,  con- 
trasted with  the  strong  figure  that  could  have  caught  her  up  and 
(;arried  her  out  of  any  danger,  miles  and  miles  without  resting. 

She  was  thinking  further,  that  his  far-seeing  blue  eyes  looked 
as  if  they  had  been  used  to  watch  danger  afar  off,  and  to  watch  it 
without  flinching,  drawing  nearer  and  nearer :  when,  happening  to 


A    GRITTY    STATE    OF    THINGS    COMES    ON.  165 

raise  her  own  eyes,  slie  found  that  he  seemed  to  be  thinking  some- 
thing about  tliem. 

This  a  little  confused  Eosebud,  and  may  account  for  her  never 
afterwards  quite  knowing  hoAv  she  ascended  (with  his  help)  to  his 
garden  in  the  air,  and  seemed  to  get  into  a  marvellous  country 
that  came  into  sudden  bloom  like  the  country  on  the  summit  of 
the  magic  bean-stalk.     May  it  flourish  for  ever ! 


CHAPTEE  XXII. 

A    GRITTY   STATE   OF    THINGS    COMES   ON. 

Mr.  Tartar's  chambers  were  the  neatest,  the  cleanest,  and  the  best 
ordered  chambers  ever  seen  under  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars.  The 
floors  were  scrubbed  to  that  extent,  that  you  might  have  supposed 
the  London  blacks  emancipated  for  ever,  and  gone  out  of  the  land  for 
good.  Every  inch  of  brass- work  in  Mr.  Tartar's  possession  was 
polished  and  burnished,  till  it  shone  like  a  brazen  mirror.  Xo  speck, 
nor  spot,  nor  spatter  soiled  the  purity  of  any  of  Mr.  Tartar's  house- 
hold gods,  large,  small,  or  middle-sized.  His  sitting-room  was 
like  the  admiral's  cabin,  his  bath-room  was  like  a  dairy,  his 
sleeping-chamber,  fitted  all  about  with  lockers  and  drawers,  was 
like  a  seedsman's  shop ;  and  his  nicely-balanced  cot  just  stirred  in 
the  midst,  as  if  it  breathed.  Everything  belonging  to  Mr.  Tartar 
had  quarters  of  its  own  assigned  to  it :  his  maps  and  charts  had 
their  quarters ;  his  books  had  theirs  ;  his  brushes  had  theirs ;  his 
boots  had  theirs ;  his  clothes  had  theirs ;  his  case-bottles  had  theirs  ; 
his  telescopes  and  other  instruments  had  theirs.  Everything  was 
readily  accessible.  Shelf,  bracket,  locker,  hook,  and  drawer  were 
equally  within  reach,  and  were  equally  contrived  with  a  view  to 
avoiding  waste  of  room,  and  providing  some  snug  inches  of  stowage 
for  something  that  would  have  exactly  fitted  nowhere  else.  His 
gleaming  little  service  of  plate  was  so  arranged  upon  his  sideboard 
as  that  a  slack  salt-spoon  would  have  instantly  betrayed  itself; 
his  toilet  implements  were  so  arranged  upon  his  dressing-table  as 
that  a  toothpick  of  slovenly  deportment  could  have  been  reported 
at  a  glance.  So  with  the  curiosities  he  had  brought  home  from 
various  voyages.  Stuffed,  dried,  repolished,  or  otherwise  pre- 
served, according  to  their  kind;  birds,  fishes,  reptiles,  arms, 
articles  of  dress,  shells,  seaweeds,  grasses,  or  memorials  of  coral 
reef ;  each  was  displaj^ed  in  its  especial  place,  and  each  could  have 
been  displayed  in  no  better  place.  Paint  and  varnish  seemed  to  be 
kept  somewhere  out  of  sight,  in  constant  readiness  to  obliterate 
stray  finger-marks  wherever  any  might  become  perceptible  in  Mr. 
Tartar's  chambers.  Xo  man-of-war  was  ever  kept  more  spick  and 
span  from  careless  touch.  On  this  bright  summer  day,  a  neat 
awning  was  rigged  over  Mr.  Tartar's  flower-garden  as  only  a  sailor 
could  rig  it ;  and  there  was  a  sea-going  air  upon  the  whole  effect, 
so  delightfully  complete,  that  the  flower-garden  might  have  apper- 
tained to  stern-windows  afloat,  and  the  whole  concern  might  have 


166  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

"bowled  away  gallantly  witk  all  on  board,  if  Mr.  Tartar  had  only 
clapped  to  his  lips  the  speaking-trumpet  that  was  slung  in  a 
corner,  and  given  hoarse  orders  to  have  the  anchor  up,  look  alive 
there,  men,  and  get  all  sail  upon  her ! 

Mr.  Tartar  doing  the  honors  of  this  gallant  craft,  was  of  a  piece 
with  the  rest.  When  a  man  rides  a'li  amiable  hobby  that  shies  at 
nothing  and  kicks  nobody,  it  is  only  agreeable  to  find  him  riding 
it  with  a  humorous  sense  of  the  droll  side  of  the  creature.  When 
the  man  is  a  cordial  and  an  earnest  man  by  nature,  and  withal  is 
perfectly  fresh  and  genuine,  it  may  be  doubted  whether  he  is  ever 
seen  to  greater  advantage  than  at  such  a  time.  So  Rosa  would 
have  naturally  thought  (even  if  she  hadn't  been  conducted  over  the 
ship  with  all  the  homage  due  to  the  First  Lady  of  the  Admiralty, 
or  First  Fairy  of  the  Sea),  that  it  was  charming  to  see  and  hear 
Mr.  Tartar  half  laughing  at,  and  half  rejoicing,  in  his  various  con- 
trivances. So  Rosa  would  have  naturally  thought,  anyhow,  that 
the  sunburnt  sailor  showed  to  great  advantage  when,  the  inspec- 
tion finished,  he  delicately  withdrew  out  of  his  admiral's  cabin, 
beseeching  her  to  consider  herself  its  Queen,  and  waving  her  free 
of  his  flower-garden  with  the  hand  that  had  had  Mr.  Crisparkle's 
life  in  it. 

"  Helena !     Helena  Landless !     Are  you  there  ?" 

"  Who  speaks  to  me  ?  Not  Rosa  ?"  Then  a  second  handsome 
face  appearing. 

"  Yes,  my  darling  !" 

"  Why,  how  did  you  come  here,  dearest  ?" 

"  I — ^I  don't  quite  know,"  said  Rosa  with  a  blush ;  "  unless  I  am 
dreaming !" 

Why  with  a  blush  ?  For  their  two  faces  were  alone  with  the 
other  flowers.  Are  blushes  among  the  fruits  of  the  country  of  the 
magic  beanstalk.    • 

"  I  am  not  dreaming,"  said  Helena,  smiling.  "  I  should  take 
more  for  granted  if  I  were.  How  do  we  come  together — or  so 
near  together — so  very  unexpectedly  ?" 

Unexpectedly  indeed,  among  the  dingy  gables  and  chimney- 
pots of  P.  J.  T.'s  connection,  and  the  flowers  that  had  sprung  from 
the  salt  sea.  But  Rosa,  waking,  told  in  a  hurry  how  they  came 
to  be  together,  and  all  the  why  and  wherefore  of  that  matter. 

"  And  Mr.  Crisparkle  is  here,"  said  Rosa,  in  rapid  conclusion ; 
"  and  could  you  believe  it  ?     Long  ago,  he  saved  his  life !" 

"  I  could  believe  any  such  thing  of  Mr.  Crisparkle,"  returned 
Helena,  with  a  mantling  face. 

(More  blushes  in  the  beanstalk  country !) 

"  Yes,  but  it  wasn't  Mr.  Crisparkle,"  said  Rosa,  quickly  putting 
in  the  correction. 

"  I  don't  understand,  love." 

"  It  was  very  nice  of  Mr.  Crisparkle  to  be  saved,"  said  Rosa,  "  and 
he  couldn't  have  shown  his  high  opinion  of  Mr.  Tartar  more  ex- 
pressively.    But  it  was  Mr.  Tartar  who  saved  him." 

Helena's  dark  eyes  looked  very  earnestly  at  the  bright  face  among 
the  leaves,  and  she  asked,  in  a  slower  and  more  thoughtful  tone : 

"  Is  Mr.  Tartar  with  you  now,  dear  ?" 


A    GRITTY    STATE    OF   THINGS    COMES    OX.  167 


"  Ko ;  because  he  lias  given  up  his  rooms  to  me — to  us,  I  mean. 
It  is  such  a  beautiful  place  !" 

"  Is  it  ?" 

"It  is  like  the  inside  of  the  most  exquisite  ship  that  ever  sailed. 
It  is  like — it  is  like " 

"  Like  a  dream  ?"  suggested  Helena. 

Eosa  answered  with  a  little  nod,  and  smelled  the  flowers. 

Helena  resumed,  after  a  short  pause  of  silence,  during  which  she 
seemed  (or  it  was  Eosa's  fancy)  to  compassionate  somebody  :  "  My 
poor  Neville  is  reading  in  his  own  room,  the  sun  being  so  Yery 
bright  on  this  side  just  now.  I  think  he  had  better  not  know  that 
you  are  so  near." 

"  Oh,  I  think  so  too !"  cried  Eosa  very  readil3^ 

"  I  suppose,"  pursued  Helena,  doubtfully,  "  that  he  must  know 
b3''-and-by  all  you  have  told  me ;  but  I  am  not  sure.  Ask  Mr.  Cris- 
parkle's  advice,  mj  darling.  Ask  him  whether  I  may  tell  Neville 
as  much  or  as  little  of  what  you  have  told  me  as  I  think  best." 

Eosa  subsided  into  her  state-cabin,  and  propounded  the  question. 
The  Minor  Camon  was  for  the  free  exercise  of  Helena's  judg- 
ment. 

"  I  thank  him  very  much,"  said  Helena,  when  Eosa  emerged 
again  with  her  report.  "  Ask  him  whether  it  would  be  best  to 
wait  until  any  more  maligning  and  pursuing  of  Neville  on  the  part 
of  this  wretch  shall  disclose  itself,  or  to  trj^  to  anticipate  it :  I 
mean,  so  far  as  to  find  out  whether  any  such  goes  on  darkly 
about  us  ?" 

The  Minor  Canon  found  this  point  so  difficult  to  give  a  confident 
opinion  on,  that,  after  two  or  three  attempts  and  failures,  he  sug- 
gested a  reference  to  Mr.  Grewgious.  Helena  acquiescing,  he 
betook  himself  (with  a  most  unsuccessful  assumption  of  lounging 
indifference)  across  the  quadrangle  to  P.  J.  T.'s,  and  stated  it.  Mr. 
Grewgious  held  decidedl}^  to  the  general  principle,  that  if  you 
could  steal  a  march  upon  a  brigand  or  a  wild  beast,  you  had  better 
do  it ;  and  he  also  held  decidedly  to  the  special  case,  that  John 
Jasper  was  a  brigand  and  a  wild  beast  in  combination. 

Thus  advised,  Mr.  Crisparkle  came  back  again  and  reported  to 
Eosa,  who  in  her  turn  reported  to  Helena.  She,  now  steadily  pur- 
suing her  train  of  thought  at  her  window,  considered  thereupon. 

"  We  may  count  on  Mr.  Tartar's  readiness  to  help  us,  Eosa  ?"  she 
inquired. 

0  yes !  Eosa  shyly  thought,  so.  0  yes,  Eosa  shyly  believed  she 
could  almost  answer  for  it.  But  should  she  ask  Mr.  Crisparkle  ? 
"  I  think  your  authority  on  the  point  as  good  as  his,  my  dear," 
said  Helena,  sedately,  "  and  you  needn't  disappear  again  for  that." 
Odd  of  Helena ! 

"You  see,  Neville"  Helena  pursued  after  more  reflection 
"  knows  no  one  else  here  :  he  has  not  so  much  as  exchanged  a  word 
with  any  one  else  here.  If  Mr.  Tartar  would  call  to  see  him 
openly  and  often ;  if  he  would  spare  a  minute  for  the  purpose, 
frequentl}^ ;  if  he  would  even  do  so,  almost  daily  ;  something  might 
come  of  it." 

"  Something  might  come  of  it,  dear  ?"  repeated  Eosa,  surveying 


168  THE   MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DEOOD. 

lier  friend's  beauty  witli  a  highly  perplexed  face.     "  Something 


might 


"  If  Neville's  movements  are  really  watched,  and  if  the  purpose 
really  is  to  isolate  him  from  all  friends  and  acquaintance  and 
wear  his  daily  life  out  grain  by  grain  (which  would  seem  to  be  the 
threat  to  you),  does  it  not  appear  likely,"  said  Helena,  "  that  his 
enemy  would  in  some  way  communicate  with  J\lr.  Tartar  to  warn 
him  off  from  Keville  ?  In  which  case,  we  might  not  only  know  the 
fact  but  might  know  from  Mr.  Tartar  what  the  terms  of  the  com- 
munication were." 

"  I  see !"  cried  Eosa.  And  immediately  darted  into  her  state- 
cabin  again. 

Presently  her  pretty  face  reappeared,  with  a  greatlj^  heightened 
colour,  and  she  said  that  she  had  told  Mr.  Crisparkle,  and  that 
Mr.  Crisparkle  had  fetched  in  Mr.  Tartar,  and  that  Mr.  Tartar — 
"  who  is  waiting  now  in  case  you  want  him,"  added  Eosa,  with  a 
half  look  back,  and  in  not  a  little  confusion  between  the  inside  of 
the  state-cabin  and  out — had  declared  his  readiness  to  act  as  she 
had  suggested,  and  to  enter  on  his  task  that  very  day. 

"  I  thank  him  from  my  heart,"  said  Helena.     "  Pray  tell  him  so." 

Again  not  a  little  confused  between  the  Flower  Garden  and  the 
Cabin,  Eosa  dipped  in  with  her  message,  and  dipped  out  again 
with  more  assurances  from  Mr.  Tartar,  and  stood  wavering  in  a 
divided  state  between  Helena  and  him,  which  proved  that  confusion 
is  not  always  necessarily  awkward,  but  may  sometimes  present  a 
pleasant  appearance. 

"  And  now,  darling,"  said  Helena,  "  we  will  be  mindful  of  tho 
caution  that  has  restricted  us  to  this  interview  for  the  present,  and 
will  part.     I  hear  Neville  moving  too.     Are  3^ou  going  back  ?" 

"  To  Miss  Twinkleton's?"  asked  Eosa. 

"  Yes." 

"  0,  I  could  never  go  there  any  more ;  I  couldn't  indeed,  after 
that  dreadful  interview  !"  said  Eosa. 

"  Then  where  are  you  going,  prett}'  one  ?" 

"  Now  I  come  to  think  of  it,  1  don't  know,"  said  Eosa.  "  I  have 
settled  nothing  at  all  yet,  but  my  guardian  will  take  care  of  me. 
Don't  be  uneasy,  dear.     I  shall  be  sure  to  be  somewhere." 

(It  did  seem  likely.) 

"  And  I  shall  hear  of  my  Eosebud  from  Mr.  Tartar  ?"  inquired 
Helena. 

"  Yes,  I  suppose  so ;  from "  Eosa  looked  back  again  in  a 

flutter,  instead  of  supplying  the  name.  "  But  tell  me  one  thing 
before  we  part,  dearest  Helena.  Tell  me  that  you  are  sure,  sure, 
sure,  I  couldn't  help  it." 

"  Help  it,  love  ?" 

"  Help  making  him  malicious  and  revengeful.  I  couldn't  hold 
any  terms  with  him,  could  I  ?" 

"  You  know  how  I  love  you,  darling,"  answered  Helena,  with 
indignation  ;  "  but  I  would  sooner  see  you  dead  at  his  wicked  feet." 

"  That's  a  great  comfort  to  me !  And  you  will  tell  your  poor 
brother  so,  won't  you  ?  And  you  will  give  him  my  remembrance 
and  TCij  sympathy  ?     And  you  will  ask  him  not  to  hate  me?" 


A   GRITTY    STATE    OF    THINGS    COMES    ON.  169 

With  a  mournful  shake  of  the  head,  as  if  that  would  be  quite 
a  superfluous  entreaty,  Helena  lovingly  kissed  her  two  hands  to  her 
friend,  and  her  friend's  two  hands  were  kissed  to  her ;  and  then 
she  saw  a  third  hand  (a  brown  one)  appear  among  the  flowers  and 
leaves,  and  help  her  friend  out  of  sight. 

The  reflection  that  Mr.  Tartar  produced  in  the  Admiral's  Cabin 
by  merely  touching  the  spring  knob  of  a  locker  and  the  handle  of 
a  drawer,  was  a  dazzling  enchanted  repast.  Wonderful  macaroons, 
glittering  liqueurs,  magically  preserved  tropical  spices,  and  jellies 
of  celestial  tropical  fruits,  displayed  themselves  profusely  at  an 
instant's  notice.  But  Mr.  Tartar  could  not  make  time  stand  still  ; 
and  time,  with  his  hardhearted  fleetness,  strode  on  so  fast,  that 
Eosa  was  obliged  to  come  down  from  the  Beanstalk  country  ta 
earth,  and  her  guardian's  chambers. 

"  And  now,  my  dear,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  what  is  to  be  done 
next  ?  To  put  the  same  thought  in  another  form ;  what  is  to  be 
done  with  you  ?" 

Eosa  could  only  look  apologetically  sensible  of  being  very  much 
in  her  own  way,  and  in  everybod}^  else's.  Some  passing  idea  of 
living,  fireproof,  up  a  good  many  stairs  in  Furnival's  Inn  for  the 
rest  of  her  life,  was  the  only  thing  in  the  nature  of  a  plan  that 
occurred  to  her. 

"  It  has  come  into  my  thoughts,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  that  as 
the  respected  lady.  Miss  Twinkleton,  occasionally  repairs  to  London 
in  the  recess,  with  the  view  of  extending  her  connexion,  and  being 
available  for  interviews  with  metropolitan  parents,  if  any — 
whether,  until  we  have  time  in  which  to  turn  ourselves  round, 
we  might  invite  Miss  Twinkleton  to  come  and  stay  with  you  for 
a  month  ?" 

*'  Stay  where,  sir  ?" 

"  Whether,"  explained  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  we  might  take  a  fur- 
nished lodging  in  town  for  a  month,  and  invite  Miss  Twinkleton 
to  asssume  the  charge  of  you  in  it  for  that  period  ?" 

"  And  afterwards  ?"  hinted  Eosa. 

"  And  afterwards,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  we  should  be  no  worse 
off  than  we  are  now." 

"  I  think  that  might  smooth  the  way,"  assented  Eosa. 

"  Then  let  us,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  rising,  "  go  and  look  for 
a  furnished  lodging.  Nothing  could  be  more  acceptable  to  me 
than  the  sweet  presence  of  last  evening,  for  all  the  remaining 
evenings  of  my  existence ;  but  these  are  not  fit  surroundings  for  a 
young  lady.  Let  us  set  out  in  quest  of  adventures,  and  look  for  a 
furnished  lodging.  In  the  meantime,  Mr.  Crisparkle  here,  about 
to  return  home  immediately,  will  no  doubt  kindly  see  Miss  Twin- 
kleton and  invite  that  lady  to  co-operate  in  our  plan." 

Mr.  Crisparkle,  willingly  accepting  the  commission,  took  his 
departure ;  Mr.  Grewgious  and  his  ward  set  forth  on  their  expe- 
dition. 

As  Mr.  Grewgious's  idea  of  looking  at  a  furnished  lodging  was 
to  get  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  street  to  a  house  with  a  sui  table 
bill  in  the  window,  and  stare  at  it;  and  then  work  his  way 
tortuously  to  the  back  of  the  house,  and  stare  at  that ;  and  then 


170  THE    MYSTEEY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

not  go  in,  but  make  similar  trials  of  another  house,  witli  tlie  same 
result ;  their  progress  was  but  slow.  At  length  he  bethought  him- 
self of  a  widowed  cousin,  divers  times  removed,  of  Mr.  Bazzard's, 
who  had  once  solicited  his  influence  in  the  lodger  world,  and  who 
lived  in  Southampton  Street,  Bloomsbury  Square.  This  lady's 
name,  stated  in  uncompromising  capitals  of  considerable  size  on  a 
brass  door-plate,  and  yet  not  lucidly  as  to  sex  or  condition,  was 

BlLLICKlN. 

Personal  faintness,  and  an  overpowering  personal  candour,  were 
the  distinguishing  features  of  Mrs.  Billickin's  organization.  She 
came  languishing  out  of  her  own  exclusive  back  parloi*,  with  the 
air  of  having  been  expressly  brought-to  for  the  purpose,  from  an 
accumulation  of  several  swoons. 

"  I  hope  I  see  you  well,  sir,"  said  Mrs.  Billickin,  recognizing 
her  visitor  Avith  a  bend. 

"  Thank  you,  quite  well.  And  you,  ma'am  ?"  returned  Mr.  Grew- 
gious. 

"  I  am  as  well,"  said  Mrs.  Billickin,  becoming  aspirational  with 
excess  of  faintness,  "  as  I  hever  ham." 

"  My  ward  and  an  elderly  lad}^"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  "  wish  to 
find  a  genteel  lodging  for  a  month  or  so.  Have  you  any  apart- 
ments available,  ma'am  ?" 

"  Mr.  Grewgious,"  returned  Mrs.  Billickin,  "  I  will  not  deceive 
you ;  far  from  it.     I  liave  apartments  available." 

This,  with  the  air  of  adding  :  "  Convey  me  to  the  stake,  if  you 
will ;  but  while  I  live,  I  will  be  candid." 

"  And  now,  what  apartments,  ma'am  ?"  asked  Mr.  Grewgious, 
cosily.  To  tame  a  certain  severity  apparent  on  the  part  of  Mrs. 
Billickin. 

*'  There  is  this  sitting-room — which  call  it  what  you  will,  it  is  the 
front  parlor,  Miss,"  said  Mrs.  Billickin,  impressing  Eosa  into  the 
conversation  :  "  the  back  parlor  being  what  I  cling  to  and  never 
part  with ;  and  there  is  two  bedrooms  at  the  top  of  the  'ouse  with 
gas  laid  on.  I  do  not  tell  you  that  your  bedroom  floors  is  firm, 
for  firm  they  are  not.  The  gas-fitter  himself  allowed  that  to  make 
a  firm  job,  he  must  go  right  under  your  jistes,  and  it  were  not 
worth  the  outlay  as  a  yearly  tenant  so  to  do.  The  piping  is 
carried  above  your  jistes,  and  it  is  best  that  it  should  be  made 
known  to  you." 

Mr.  Grewgious  and  Eosa  exchanged  looks  of  some  dismay, 
though  they  had  not  the  least  idea  what  latent  horrors  this 
carriage  of  the  piping  might  involve.  Mrs.  Billickin  put  her  hand 
to  her  heart,  as  having  eased  it  of  a  load. 

"  Well !  The  roof  is  all  right,  no  doubt,"  said  Mr.  Grewgious, 
plucking  up  a  little. 

"  Mr.  Grewgious,"  returned  Mrs.  Billickin,  "  if  I  was  to  tell  you, 
sir,  that  to  have  nothink  above  j^ou  is  to  have  a  floor  above  you, 
I  should  put  a  deception  upon  you  which  I  will  not  do.  No,  sir. 
Your  slates  will  rattle  loose  at  that  elewation  in  windy  weather, 
do  your  utmost,  best  or  worst  I  I  defy  you,  sir,  be  you  what  jom 
may,  to  keep  your  slates  tight,  try  how  you  can,"  Here  Mrs. 
Billickin,  having  been  warm  with  Mr.  Grewgious,  cooled  a  little, 


A   GRITTY   STATE   OF   THINGS   COMES   OX.  171 

not  to  abuse  the  moral  power  slie  lield  over  him.  "  Consequent," 
proceeded  Mrs.  Billickin,  more  mildly,  but  still  firmly  in  .  lier 
incorruptible  candour  :  "  consequent  it  would  be  worse  than  of  no 
use  for  me  to  trapse  and  travel  up  to  the  top  of  the  'ouse  with  you, 
and  for  you  to  say,  '  Mrs.  Billickin,  what  stain  do  I  notice  in  the 
ceiling,  for  a  stain  I  do  consider  it  ?'  and  for  me  to  answer,  *  I  do 
not  understand  you,  sir.'  No  sir ;  I  will  not  be  so  underhand.  I 
do  understand  you  before  you  pint  it  out.  It  is  the  wet,  sir.  It 
do  come  in,  and  it  do  not  come  in.  You  may  lay  dry  there,  half 
your  lifetime ;  but  the  time  will  come,  and  it  is  best  that  you 
should  know  it,  when  a  dripping  sop  would  be  no  name  for  you." 

Mr.  Grewgious  looked  much  disgraced  by  being  prefigured  in 
this  pickle. 

"  Have  you  any  other  apartments,  ma'am  ?"  he  asked. 

"Mr.  Grewgious,"  returned  Mrs.  Billickin,  with  much  solem- 
nity, "  I  have.  You  ask  me  have  I,  and  my  open  and  my  honest 
answer  air,  I  have.  The  first  and  second  floors  is  wacant,  and  sweet 
rooms." 

"  Come,  come !  There's  nothing  against  them,''  said  Mr.  Grew- 
gious, comforting  himself. 

"  Mr.  Grewgious,"  replied  Mrs.  Billickin,  "  pardon  me,  there  is 
the  stairs.  Unless  your  mind  is  prepared  for  the  stairs,  it  will 
lead  to  inevitable  disappointment.  You  cannot,  Miss,"  said  Mrs. 
Billickin,  addressing  Eosa,  reproachfully,  "  place  a  first  floor,  and 
far  less  a  second,  on  the  level  footing  of  a  parlor.  No,  you  cannot 
do  it.  Miss,  it  is  beyond  your  power,  and  wherefore  trj'  ?" 

Mrs.  Billickin  put  it  very  feelingly,  as  if  Eosa  had  shown  a 
headstrong  determination  to  hold  the  untenable  position. 

*'  Can  we  see  these  rooms,  ma'am  ?"  inquired  her  guardian. 

*'  Mr.  Grewgious,"  returned  Mrs.  Billickin,  "  you  can.  I  will 
not  disguise  it  from  you,  sir,  you  can." 

Mrs.  Billickin  then  sent  into  her  back  parlor  for  her  shawl 
(it  being  a  state  fiction,  dating  from  immemorial  antiquity,  that 
she  could  never  go  anywhere  without  being  wrapped  up),  and 
having  been  enrolled  by  her  attendant,  led  the  way.  She  made 
various  genteel  pauses  on  the  stairs  for  breath,  and  clutched  at 
her  heart  in  the  drawing-room  as  if  it  had  very  nearly  got  loose, 
and  she  had  caught  it  in  the  act  of  taking  wing. 

"  And  the  second  floor  ?"  said  Mr.  Grewgious,  on  finding  the  first 
satisfactory. 

"Mr.  Grewgious,"  replied  Mrs.  Billickin,  turning  upon  him 
with  ceremony,  as  if  the  time  had  now  come  when  a  distinct 
understanding  on  a  difficult  point  must  be  arrived  at,  and  a 
solemn  confidence  established,  "  the  second  floor  is  over  this." 

"  Can  we  see  that  too,  ma'am  ?" 

"  Yes,  sir,"  returned  Mrs.  Billickin,  "  it  is  open  as  the  day." 

That  also  proving  satisfactory^,  Mr.  Grev/gious  retired  into  a 
window  with  Eosa   for  a  few  words  of  consultation,  and  then 
asking  for  pen  and  ink,  sketched  out  a  line  or  two  of  agreement. 
In  the  meantime  Mrs.  Billickin  took  a  seat,  and  delivered  a  kind 
of  Index  to,  or  Abstract  of,  the  general  question. 

"  Five-and-forty  shillings  per  week  by  the  month  certain  at  the 


172  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DEOOD. 

time  of  year,"  said  Mrs.  Billickin,  "  is  only  reasonable  to  both 
parties.  It  is  not  Bond  Street  nor  yet  St.  James's  Palace ;  but  it 
is  not  pretended  that  it  is.  Neither  is  it  attempted  to  be  denied — 
for  why  should  it  ? — that  the  Arching  leads  to  a  Mews.  Mewses 
must  exist.  Respecting  attendance  ;  two  is  kep',  at  liberal  wages. 
"Words  has  arisen  as  to  tradesmen,  but  dirty  shoes  on  fresh  hearth- 
stoning  was  attributable,  and  no  wish  for  a  commission  on  jour 
orders.  Coals  is  either  hy  the  fire,  or  per  the  scuttle."  She 
emphasized  the  prepositions  as  marking  a  subtle  but  immense 
difference.  "  Dogs  is  not  viewed  with  faviour.  Besides  litter,  they 
gets  stole,  and  sharing  suspicions  is  apt  to  creep  in,  and  unpleas- 
antness takes  place." 

By  this  time  Mr.  Grewgious  had  his  agreement-lines,  and  his 
earnest-money,  ready.  "  I  have  signed  it  for  the  ladies,  ma'am," 
he  said,  "  and  you'll  have  the  goodness  to  sign  it  for  yourself. 
Christian  and  Surname,  there,  if  you  please." 

"  Mr.  Grewgious,"  said  Mrs.  Billickin  in  a  new  burst  of  candour, 
"  no,  sir  !     You  must  excuse  the  Christian  name." 

Mr.  Grewgious  stared  at  her. 

"  The  door-plate  is  used  as  a  protection,"  said  Mrs.  Billickin, 
"  and  acts  as  such,  and  go  from  it  I  will  not." 

Mr.  Grewgious  stared  at  Rosa. 

"  No,  Mr.  Grewgious,  you  must  excuse  me.  So  long  as  this  'ouse 
is  known  indefinite  as  Billickin's,  and  so  long  as  it  is  a  doubt  with 
the  riff-raff  where  Billickin  may  be  hidin',  near  the  street  door  or 
down  the  airy,  and  what  his  weight  and  size,  so  long  I  feel  safe. 
But  commit  myself  to  a  solitary  female  statement,  no.  Miss  !  Nor 
would  you  for  a  moment  wish,"  said  Mrs.  Billickin,  with  a  strong- 
sense  of  injury,  "  to  take  that  advantage  of  your  sex,  if  you  was 
not  brought  to  it  by  inconsiderate  example." 

Rosa  reddening  as  if  she  had  made  some  most  disgraceful  attempt 
to  overreach  the  good  lady,  besought  Mr.  Grewgious  to  rest 
content  with  any  signature.  And  accordingly,  in  a  baronial  way, 
the  sign-manual  Billickin  got  appended  to  the  document. 

Details  were  then  settled  for  taking  possession  on  the  next  day 
but  one,  when  Miss  Twinkleton  might  be  reasonably  expected ;  and 
Rosa  went  back  to  Furnival's  Inn  on  her  guardian's  arm. 

Behold  Mr.  Tartar  walking  up  and  down  Furnival's  Inn,  checking 
himself  when  he  saw  them  coming,  and  advancing  towards  them ! 

"  It  occurred  to  me,"  hinted  Mr.  Tartar,  "  that  we  might  go  up 
the  river,  the  weather  being  so  delicious  and  the  tide  serving.  I 
have  a  boat  of  my  own  at  the  Temple  Stairs." 

"  I  have  not  been  up  the  river  for  this  many  a  day,"  said  Mr. 
Grewgious,  tempted. 

"  I  was  never  up  the  river,"  added  Rosa. 

Within  half  an  hour  they  were  setting  this  matter  right  by 
going  up  the  river.  The  tide  was  running  with  them,  the  after- 
noon was  charming.  Mr.  Tartar's  boat  was  perfect.  Mr.  Tartar 
and  Lobley  (Mr.  I'artar's  man)  pulled  a  pair  of  oars.  Mr.  Tartar 
had  a  yacht,  it  seemed,  lying  somewhere  down  by  Greenhithe ;  and 
Mr.  Tartar's  man  had  charge  of  this  yacht,  and  was  detached  upon 
his  present  service.      He  was  a  jolly  favored  man,  with  tawny 


w 
> 

I— ( 
H 


A   GRITTY    STATE   OF    THINGS    COilES    OX.  173 

liair  and  whiskers,  and  a  big  reel  face.  He  was  the  dead  image  of 
the  sun  in  old  woodcuts,  his  hair  and  whiskers  answering  for 
rays  all  round  him.  Kesplendent  in  the  bow  of  the  boat,  he  was  a 
shining  sight,  with  a  man-of-war's  man's  shirt  on — or  off,  according 
to  opinion — and  his  arms  and  breast  tattoo'd  all  sorts  of  patterns. 
Lobley  seemed  to  take  it  easily,  and  so  did  Mr.  Tartar ;  yet  their 
oars  bent  as  they  pulled,  and  the  boat  bounded  under  them.  Mr. 
Tartar  talked  as  if  he  were  doing  nothing,  to  Rosa  who  was  really 
doing  nothing,  and  to  Mr.  Grewgious  who  was  doing  this  much 
that  he  steered  all  wrong  ;  but  what  did  that  matter,  when  a  turn 
of  Mr.  Tartar's  skilful  wrist,  or  a  mere  grin  of  Mr.  Lobley 's  over  the 
bow,  put  all  to  rights  !  The  tide  bore  them  on  in  the  gayest  and 
most  sparkling  manner,  until  they  stopped  to  dine  in  some  ever- 
lastingly green  garden,  needing  no  matter-of-fact  identification  here; 
and  then  the  tide  obligingly  turned — being  devoted  to  that  party 
alone  for  that  day ;  and  as  they  "floated  idly  among  some  osier  beds, 
Rosa  tried  what  she  could  do  in  the  rowing  way,  and  came  off 
splendidly,  being  much  assisted ;  and  Mr.  Grewgious  tried  what  he 
could  do,  and  came  off  on  his  back,  doubled  up  with  an  oar  under 
his  chin,  being  not  assisted  at  all.  Then  there  was  an  interval  of 
rest  under  boughs  (such  rest !)  what  time  Mr.  Lobley  mopped,  and, 
arranging  cushions,  stretchers,  and  the  like,  danced  the  tight 
rope  the  whole  length  of  the  boat  like  a  man  to  whom  shoes  were 
a  superstition  and  stockings  slavery ;  and  then  came  the  sweet 
return  among  delicious  odours  of  limes  in  bloom,  and  musical  rip- 
plings ;  and,  all  too  soon,  the  great  black  city  cast  its  shadow  on 
the  waters,  and  its  dark  bridges  spanned  them  as  death  sj^ans  life, 
and  the  everlastingly  green  garden  seemed  to  be  left  for  everlasting, 
unregainable  and  far  away. 

"  Cannot  people  get  through  life  without  gritty  stages,  I  wonder !" 
Eosa  thought  next  day,  when  the  town  was  very  gritty  again,  and 
everything  had  a  strange  and  an  uncomfortable  appearance  of 
seeming  to  wait  for  something  that  wouldn't  come.  No.  She 
began  to  think,  that,  now  the  Cloisterham  school  days  had  glided 
past  and  gone,  the  gritty  stages  would  begin  to  set  in  at  intervals 
and  make  themselves  wearily  known  ! 

Yet  what  did  Rosa  expect  ?  Did  she  expect  Miss  Twinkleton  ? 
Miss  Twinkleton  duly  came.  Forth  from  her  back  parlor  issued 
the  Billickin  to  receive  Miss  Twinkleton,  and  War  was  in  the 
Billickin's  eye  from  that  fell  moment. 

Miss  Twinkleton  brought  a  quantit}'  of  luggage  with  her,  having 
all  Rosa's  as  well  as  her  own.  The  Billickin  took  it  ill  that  Miss 
Twinkleton's  mind,  being  sorely  disturbed  by  this  luggage,  failed 
to  take  in  her  personal  identity  with  that  clearness  of  perception 
which  was  due  to  its  demands.  Stateliness  mounted  her  gloomy 
throne  upon  the  Billickin's  brow  in  consequence.  And  when  Miss 
Twinkleton,  in  agitation  taking  stock  of  her  trunks  and  packages, 
of  which  she  had  seventeen,  particularly  counted  in  the  Billickin 
herself  as  number  eleven,  the  B  found  it  necessary  to  repudiate. 

"  Things  cannot  too  soon  be  put  upon  the  footing,"  said  she, 
with  a  candour  so  demonstrative  as  to  be  almost  obtrusive,  "  that 
the  person  of  the  'ouse  is  not  a  box  nor  yet  a  bundle,  nor  a  carpet 


174  THE   MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

"bag.     No,  I  am  'ily  obleeged  to  you,  Miss  Twinkleton,  nor  yet  a 
beggar." 

This  last  disclaimer  had  reference  to  Miss  Twinkleton's  dis- 
tractedly pressing  two  and  sixj)ence  on  her,  instead  of  the  cabman. 

Thus  cast  off,  Miss  Twinkleton  wildly  inquired,  "  which  gentle- 
man "  was  to  be  paid  ?  There  being  two  gentlemen  in  that  position 
(Miss  Twinkleton  having  arrived  with  two  cabs),  each  gentleman 
on  being  paid  held  forth  his  two  and  sixpence  on  the  flat  of  his 
open  hand,  and,  with  a  speechless  stare  and  a  dropped  jaw,  displayed 
his  wrong  to  heaven  and  earth.  Terrified  by  this  alarming  sjDec- 
tacle,  Miss  Twinkleton  placed  another  shilling  in  each  hand  ;  at  the 
same  time  appealing  to  the  law  in  flurried  accents,  and  recounting 
her  luggage  this  time  with  the  two  gentlemen  in,  who  caused  the 
total  to  come  out  complicated.  Meanwhile  the  two  gentlemen, 
each  looking  very  hard  at  the  last  shilling  grumblingly,  as  if  it 
might  become  eighteenpence  if  he  kept  his  eyes  on  it,  descended 
the  doorsteps,  ascended  their  carriages,  and  drove  away,  leaving 
Miss  Twinkleton  on  a  bonnet-box  in  tears. 

The  Billickin  beheld  this  manifestation  of  weakness  without 
sympathy,  and  gave  directions  for  "  a  young  man  to  be  got  in  "  to 
wrestle  with  the  luggage.  When  that  gladiator  had  disappeared 
from  the  arena,  peace  ensued,  and  the  new  lodgers  dined. 

But  the  Billickin  had  somehow  come  to  the  knowledge  that  Miss 
Twinkleton  kept  a  school.  The  leap  from  that  knowledge  to  the 
inference  that  Miss  Twinkleton  set  herself  to  teach  her  some- 
thing, was  easy.  "  But  ^'■ou  don't  do  it,"  soliloquised  the  Billickin ; 
"  I  am  not  your  pupil,  whatever  she,"  meaning  Eosa,  "  may  be, 
poor  thing !" 

Miss  Twinkleton  on  the  other  hand,  having  changed  her  dress 
and  recovered  her  spirits,  was  animated  by  a  bland  desire  to 
improve  the  occasion  in  all  waj^s,  and  to  be  as  serene  a  model  as 
possible.  In  a  happy  compromise  between  her  two  states  of  exist- 
ence, she  had  already  become,  with  her  workbasket  before  her, 
the  equably  vivacious  companion  with  a  slight  judicious  flavouring 
of  information,  when  the  Billickin  announced  herself. 

"  I  will  not  hide  from  you,  ladies,"  said  the  B,  enveloped  in  the 
shawl  of  state,  "  for  it  is  not  my  character  to  hide  neither  my 
motives  nor  my  actions,  that  I  take  the  liberty  to  look  in  upon 
you  to  express  a  'ope  that  your  dinner  was  to  your  liking.  Though 
not  Professed  but  Plain,  still  her  wages  should  be  a  sufficient  object 
to  her  to  stimilate  to  soar  above  mere  roast  and  biled." 

"  We  dined  very  well  indeed,"  said  Rosa,  "  thank  you." 

"  Accustomed,"  said  Miss  Twinkleton,  with  a  gracious  air  which 
to  the  jealous  ears  of  the  Billickin  seemed  to  add  my  "  my  good 
woman  " — "  Accustomed  to  a  liberal  and  nutritious,  yet  plain 
and  salutary  diet,  we  have  found  no  reason  to  bemoan  our  absence 
from  the  ancient  city,  and  the  methodical  household,  in  which  the 
quiet  routine  of  our  lot  has  been  hitherto  cast." 

"  I  did  think  it  well  to  mention  to  my  cook,"  observed  the 
Billickin  with  a  gush  of  candour,  "  which  I  'ope  you  will  agree 
with.  Miss  Twinkleton,  was  a  right  precaution,  that  the  young 
lady  being  used  to  what  we  should  consider  here  but  poor  diet,  had 


A    GKITTY    STATE    OF    THINGS    COMES    OX.  175 

"better  be  brought  forward  by  degrees.  For,  a  riisli  from  scanty 
feeding  to  generous  feeding,  and  from  what  you  may  call  messing 
to  what  you  may  call  method,  do  require  a  power  of  constitution, 
which  is  not  often  found  in  youth,  particular  when  undermined  by 
boarding-school !" 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  Billicldn  now  openly  pitted  herself 
against  Miss  Twinkleton,  as  one  whom  she  had  fully  ascertained 
to  be  her  natural  enemy. 

"  Your  remarks,"  returned  Miss  Twinkleton,  from  a  remote  moral 
eminence,  "  are  well  meant,  I  have  no  doubt ;  but  you  will  permit 
me  to  observe  that  they  develop  a  mistaken  view  of  the  subject, 
which  can  only  be  imputed  to  your  extreme  want  of  accurate 
information." 

"  My  informiation,"  retorted  the  Billickin,  throwing  in  an  extra 
syllable  for  the  sake  of  emphasis  at  once  polite  and  powerful : 
"  My  informiation.  Miss  Twinkleton,  were  my  own  experience, 
which  I  believe  is  usually  considered  to  be  good  guidance.  But 
whether  so  or  not,  I  was  put  in  youth  to  a  very  genteel  boarding- 
school,  the  mistress  being  no  less  a  lady  than  yourself,  of  about 
your  own  age  or  it  may  be  some  years  younger,  and  a  poorness 
of  blood  flowed  from  the  table  which  has  run  through  my  life." 

"  Very  likely,"  said  Miss  Twinkleton,  still  from  her  distant 
eminence  ;  "  and  very  much  to  be  deplored.  Eosa,  my  dear,  how 
are  you  getting  on  with  your  work  ?" 

"  Miss  Twinkleton,"  resumed  the  Billickin,  in  a  courtly  manner, 
"  before  retiring  on  the  Int,  as  a  lady  should,  I  wish  to  ask  of 
yourself  as  a  lady,  whether  I  am  to  consider  that  my  words  is 
doubted  ?" 

"  I  am  not  aware  on  what  ground  you  cherish  such  a  suppo- 
sition," began  Miss  Twinkleton,  when  the  Billickin  neatly  stopped 
her. 

"  Do  not,  if  you  please,  put  suppositions  betwixt  my  lips,  where 
none  such  have  been  impai  ted  by  myself.  Your  flow  of  words  is 
great.  Miss  Twinkleton,  and  no  doubt  is  expected  from  you  by 
your  pupils,  and  no  doubt  is  considered  worth  the  money.  No 
doubt,  I  am  sure.  But  not  paying  for  flows  of  words,  and  not 
asking  to  be  favored  with  them  here,  I  wish  to  repeat  my 
question." 

"  If  you  refer  to  the  poverty  of  your  circulation,"  began  Miss 
.  Twinkleton,  when  again  the  Billickin  neatly  stopped  her. 

"  I  have  used  no  such  expressions." 

"  If  you  refer  then  to  the  poorness  of  your  blood." 

"  Brought  upon  me,"  stipulated  the  Billickin,  expressly,  "  at  a 
boarding-school." 

"  Then,"  resumed  Miss  Twinkleton,  "  all  I  can  say,  is,  that  I  am 
bound  to  believe  on  j^our  asseveration  that  it  is  very  poor  indeed. 
I  cannot  forbear  adding,  that  if  that  unfortunate  circumstance 
influences  your  conversation,  it  is  much  to  be  lamented,  and  it  is 
eminently  desirable  that  your  blood  were  richer.  Eosa,  my  dear, 
how  are  you  getting  on  with  your  work  ?" 

"  Hem !  Before  retiring,  Miss,"  proclaimed  the  Billickin  to 
Eosa,  loftily  cancelling  Miss  Twinkleton,  "I  should  wish  it  to  be 


176  THE  MYSTEKY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

understood  between  yonrself  and  me  that  my  transactions  in  futnre 
is  with  you  alone.  I  know  no  elderly  lady  here,  Miss,  none  older 
than  yourself." 

"  A  highly  desirable  arrangement,  Rosa,  my  dear,"  observed 
Miss  Twinkleton. 

"  It  is  not,  Miss,"  said  the  Billickin,  with  a  sarcastic  smile,  "  that 
I  po-ssess  the  Mill  I  have  heard  of,  in  which  old  single  ladies  could 
be  ground  up  young  (what  a  gift  it  would  be  to  some  of  us  \),  but 
that  I  limit  myself  to  you  totally." 

"  When  I  have  any  desire  to  communicate  a  request  to  the 
person  of  the  house,  Eosa,  my  dear,"  observed  Miss  Twinkleton, 
with  majestic  cheerfulness,  "I  will  make  it  known  to  you,  and 
you  will  kindly  undertake,  I  am  sure,  that  it  is  conveyed  to  the 
proper  quarter." 

"  Good-evening,  Miss,"  said  the  Billickin,  at  once  affectionately 
and  distantly.  "  Being  alone  in  my  eyes,  I  wish  you  good-evening 
with  best  wishes,  and  do  not  find  myself  drove,  I  am  truly 
'appy  to  say,  into  expressing  my  contempt  for  any  indiwidual, 
unfortunately  for  yourself,  belonging  to  you." 

The  Billickin  gracefully  withdrew  with  this  parting  speech,  and 
from  that  time  Eosa  occupied  the  restless  position  of  shuttlecock 
between  these  two  battledores.  Nothing  could  bo  done  without 
a  smart  match  being  played  out.  Thus,  on  the  daily-arising 
question  of  dinner.  Miss  Twinkleton  would  say,  the  three  being 
present  together  : 

"  Perhaps,  my  love,  you  will  consult  with  the  person  of  the 
house,  whether  she  can  procure  us  a  lamb's  fry  ;  or,  failing  that, 
a  roast  fowl." 

On  which  the  Billickin  w^ould  retort  (Eosa  not  having  spoken  a 
word),  "  If  you  was  better  accustomed  to  butcher's  meat,  Miss, 
you  would  not  entertain  the  idea  of  a  lamb's  fry.  Firstlj'', 
because  lambs  has  long  been  sheep,  and  secondly,  because  there 
is  such  things  as  killing-days,  and  there  is  not.  As  to  roast  fowls. 
Miss,  why  you  must  be  quite  surfeited  with  roast  fowls,  letting  alone 
your  buying,  when  you  market  for  yourself,  the  agedest  of  poultry 
with  the  scaliest  of  legs,  quite  as  if  you  was  accustomed  to  picking 
"em  out  for  cheapness.  Try  a  little  inwention.  Miss.  Use  your- 
self to  'ousekeeping  a  bit.     Come  now,  think  of  somethink  else." 

To  this  encouragement,  offered  with  the  indulgent  toleration 
of  a  wise  and  liberal  expert.  Miss  Twinkleton  would  rejoin,  red- 
dening : 

"  Or,  my  dear,  you  might  propose  to  the  person  of  the  house  a 
duck." 

"  Well,  Miss !"  the  Billickin  would  exclaim  (still  no  w^ord  being 
spoken  by  Eosa),  "  you  do  surprise  me  when  you  speak  of  ducks  ! 
Not  to  mention  that  they're  getting  out  of  season  and  very  dear,  it 
really  strikes  to  my  heart  to  see  you  have  a  duck ;  for  the  breast, 
which  is  the  only  delicate  cuts  in  a  duck,  alwaj^s  goes  in  a  direc- 
tion which  I  cannot  imagine  where,  and  your  own  plate  comes 
down  so  miserably  skin-and-bony  !  Try  again.  Miss.  Think  more 
of  yourself  and  less  of  others.  A  dish  of  sweetbreads  now,  or  a  bit 
•of  mutton.     Somethink  at  which  you  can  get  your  equal  chance." 


A    GRITTY   STATE   OF    THINGS    COMES    ON.  177 

Occasionally  the  game  would  wax  very  brisk  indeed,  and  would 
be  kej)t  up  with  a  smartness  rendering  such  an  encounter  as  this 
quite  t^me.  But  the  Billickin  almost  invariably  made  by  far  the 
higher  score ;  and  would  come  in  with  side  hits  of  the  most  unex- 
pected and  extraordinary  description,  when  she  seemed  without  a 
chance. 

All  this  did  not  improve  the  gritty  state  of  things  in  London, 
or  the  air  that  London  had  acquired  in  Eosa's  eyes  of  waiting  for 
something  that  never  came.  Tired  of  working  and  conversing 
with  Miss  Twinkleton,  she  suggested  working  and  reading :  to 
which  Miss  Twinkleton  readily  assented,  as  an  admirable  reader,  of 
tried  powers.  But  Eosa  soon  made  the  discovery  that  Miss  Twin- 
kleton didn't  read  fairly.  She  cut  the  love  scenes,  interpolated  pas- 
sages in  praise  of  female  celibacy,  and  was  guilty  of  other  glaring 
pious  frauds.  As  an  instance  in  point,  take  the  glowing  passage  : 
"  Ever  dearest  and  best  adored,  said  Edward,  clasping  the  dear 
head  to  his  breast,  and  drawing  the  silken  hair  through  his  caress- 
ing fingers,  from  which  he  suffered  it  to  fall  like  golden  rain  ; 
ever  dearest  and  best  adored,  let  us  fly  from  the  unsympathetic 
world  and  the  sterile  coldness  of  the  stony-hearted,  to  the  rich  warm 
Paradise  of  Trust  and  Love."  Miss  Twinkleton's  fraudulent  version 
tamely  ran  thus  :  "  Ever  engaged  to  me  with  the  consent  of  our 
parents  on  both  sides,  and  the  approbation  of  the  silver-haired 
rector  of  the  district,  said  Edward,  respectfully  raising  to  his  lips 
the  taper  fingers  so  skilful  in  embroidery,  tambour,  crochet,  and 
other  truly  feminine  arts ;  let  me  call  on  thy  papa  'ere  to-morrow's 
dawn  has  sunk  into  the  west,  and  propose  a  suburban  establish- 
ment, lowly  it  may  be,  but  within  our  means,  v/here  he  will  be 
always  welcome  as  an  evening  guest,  and  where  every  arrangement 
shall  invest  economy,  and  cons-tant  interchange  of  scholastic 
acquirements,  with  the  attributes  of  the  ministering  angel  to 
domestic  bliss." 

As  the  days  crept  on  and  nothing  happened,  the  neighbours 
began  to  say  that  the  pretty  girl  at  BiUickin's,  who  looked  so 
wistfully  and  so  much  out  of  the  gritty  windows  of  the  drawing- 
room,  seemed  to  be  losing  her  spirits.  The  pretty  giri  might  have 
lost  them  but  for  the  accident  of  lighting  on  some  books  of  voyages 
and  sea-adventure.  As  a  compensation  against  their  romance, 
Miss  Twinkleton,  reading  aloud,  made  the  most  of  all  the  latitudes 
and  longitudes,  bearings,  winds,  currents,  offsets,  and  other  sta- 
tistics (which  she  felt  to  be  none  the  less  improving  because  they 
expressed  nothing  whatever  to  her) ;  while  Eosa,  listening  in- 
tently, made  the  most  of  what  was  nearest  to  her  heart.  So  they 
both  did  better  than  before. 


N 


178  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

CHAPTEE  XXIII. 

THE   DAWN   AGAIN. 

Although  Mr.  Crisparkle  and  John  Jasper  met  daily  iinder  tlio 
Cathedral  roof,  nothing  at  any  time  passed  between  them  bearing- 
reference  to  Edwin  Drood  after  the  time,  more  than  half  a  year 
gone  by,  when  Jasper  mutely  showed  the  Minor  Canon  the  con- 
clusion and  the  resolution  entered  in  "his  Diary.  It  is  not  likely 
that  they  ever  met,  though  so  often,  without  the  thoughts  of  each 
reverting  to  the  subject.  It  is  not  likely  that  they  ever  met, 
though  so  often,  without  a  sensation  on  the  part  of  each  that  the 
other  was  a  perplexing  secret  to  him.  Jasper  as  the  denouncer 
and  pursuer  of  Neville  Landless,  and  Mr.  Crisparkle  as  his  con- 
sistent advocate  and  protector,  must  at  least  have  stood  sufficiently 
in  opposition,  to  have  speculated  with  keen  interest  on  the  steadi- 
ness and  next  direction  of  the  other's  designs.  But  neither  ever 
broached  the  theme. 

False  pretence  not  being  in  the  Minor  Canon's  nature,  he  doubtless 
displayed  openly  that  he  would  at  any  time  have  revived  the 
subject,  and  even  desired  to  discuss  it.  The  determined  reticence 
of  Jasper,  however,  was  not  to  be  so  approached.  Impassive, 
moody,  solitary,  resolute,  so  concentrated  on  one  idea,  and  on  its 
attendant  fixed  purpose,  that  he  would  share  it  with  no  fellow- 
creature,  he  lived  apart  from  human  life.  Constantly  exercising 
an  Art  which  brought  him  into  mechanical  harmony  with  others, 
and  which  could  not  have  been  pursued  unless  he  and  they 
had  been  in  the  nicest  mechanical  relations  and  unison,  it  is 
curious  to  consider  that  the  spirit  of  the  man  was  in  moral 
accordance  or  interchange  with  nothing  around  him.  This  indeed 
he  had  confided  to  his  lost  nephew,  before  the  occasion  for  his 
present  inflexibility  arose. 

That  he  must  know  of  Eosa's  abrupt  departure,  and  that  he 
must  divine  its  cause,  was  not  to  be  doubted.  Did  he  suppose 
that  he  had  terrified  her  into  silence,  or  did  he  suppose  that  she 
had  imparted  to  any  one — to  Mr.  Crisparkle  himself  for  instance — 
the  particulars  of  his  last  interview  with  her?  Mr.  Crisparkle 
could  not  determine  this  in  his  mind.  He  could  not  but  admit, 
however,  as  a  just  man,  that  it  was  not,  of  itself,  a  crime  to  fall  in 
love  with  Eosa,  any  more  than  it  was  a  crime  to  offer  to  set  love 
above  revenge. 

The  dreadful  suspicion  of  Jasper  which  Eosa  was  so  shocked  to 
have  received  into  her  imagination,  appeared  to  have  no  harbour 
in  Mr.  Crisparkle's.  If  it  ever  haunted  Helena's  thoughts,  or 
Neville's,  neither  gave  it  one  spoken  word  of  utterance.  Mr. 
Grewgious  took  no  pains  to  conceal  his  implacable  dislike  of 
Jasper,  yet  he  never  referred  it,  however  distantly,  to  such  a 
source.  But  he  was  a  reticent  as  well  as  an  eccentric  man ;  and 
he  made  no  mention  of  a  certain  evening  when  he  warmed  his 
hands  at  the  Gate  House  fire,  and  looked  steadily  down  upon  a 
certain  heap  of  torn  and  miry  clothes  upon  the  floor. 

Drowsy  Cloisterham,  whenever   it  awoke  to  a   passing  recon- 


THE   T>A.WS!i   AGAIN.  179 

sideration  of  a  story  above  six  months  old  and  dismissed  by  the 
bench  of  magistrates,  was  pretty  equally  divided  in  opinion 
whether  John  Jasper's  beloved  nephew  had  been  killed  by  his 
treacherously  passionate  rival,  or  in  an  open  struggle :  or  had, 
for  his  own  jDurposes,  spirited  himself  away.  It  then  lifted 
Tip  its  head,  to  notice  that  the  bereaved  Jasper  was  still  ever 
devoted  to  discovery  and  revenge ;  and  then  dozed  off  again.  This 
was  the  condition  of  matters,  all  round,  at  the  period  to  which  the 
ptresent  history  has  now  attained. 

The  Cathedral  doors  have  closed  for  the  night ;  and  the  Choir 
Master,  on  a  short  leave  of  absence  for  two  or  three  services, 
sets  his  face  towards  London.  He  travels  thither  by  the  means 
by  which  Rosa  travelled,  and  arrives,  as  Rosa  arrived,  on  a  hot, 
dusty  evening. 

His  travelling  baggage  is  easily  carried  in  his  hand,  and  he 
repairs  with  it,  on  foot,  to  a  hybrid  hotel  in  a  little  square  behind 
Aldersgate  Street,  near  the  General  Post  Office.  It  is  hotel, 
b)oarding-house,  or  lodging-house,  at  its  visitor's  oj)tion.  It 
announces  itself,  in  the  new  Railway  Advertisers,  as  a  novel 
■enterjDrise,  timidly  beginning  to  spring  up.  It  bashfully,  almost 
apologetically,  gives  the  traveller  to  understand  that  it  does 
not  expect  him,  on  the  good  old  constitutional  hotel  plan,  to 
order  a  pint  of  sweet  blacking  for  his  drinking,  and  throw  it 
away ;  but  insinuates  that  he  may  have  his  boots  blacked  instead 
of  his  stomach,  and  maybe  also  have  bed,  breakfast,  attendance, 
and  a  porter  up  all  night,  for  a  certain  fixed  charge.  From 
these  and  similar  premises,  many  true  Britons  in  the  lowest  spirits 
deduce  that  the  times  are  levelling  times,  except  in  the  article 
of  high  roads,  of  which  there  will  shortly  be  not  one  in  England. 

He  eats  without  appetite,  and  soon  goes  forth  again.  Eastward 
and  still  eastward  through  the  stale  streets  he  takes  his  way, 
until  he  reaches  his  destination :  a  miserable  court,  specially 
miserable  among  many  such. 

He  ascends  a  broken  staircase,  opens  a  door,  looks  into  a  dark 
stifling  room,  and  says  :  "  Are  you  alone  here  ?" 

"Alone,  deary;  worse  luck  for  me  and  better  for  you,"  replies 
a  croaking  voice.  "  Come  in,  come  in,  whoever  you  be :  I  can't 
see  you  till  I  light  a  match,  yet  I  seem  to  know  the  sound  of 
your  speaking.     I  am  acquainted  with  you,  ain't  I  ?" 

"  Light  your  match,  and  try." 

"  So  I  will,  deary,  so  I  will ;  but  my  hand  that  shakes,  as  I  can't 
lay  it  on  a  match  all  in  a  moment.  And  I  cough  so,  that,  put  my 
matches  where  I  may,  I  never  find  'em  there.  They  jump  and 
start,  as  I  cough  and  cough,  like  live  things.  Are  you  off  a  voyage, 
deary?" 

"  No." 

"  Not  seafaring  ?" 

"  No." 

"  Well,  there's  land  customers,  and  there's  water  customers. 
I'm  a  mother  to  both.  Different  from  Jack  Chinaman  t'other  side 
the  court.  He  ain't  a  father  to  neither.  It  ain't  in  him.  And 
he  ain't   got   the   true   secret    of  mixing,  though  he  charges  as 

N  2 


180  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

I 

much  as  me  that  has,  and  more  if  he  can  get  it.  Here's  a  match,, 
and  now  where'sthe  candle  ?  If  my  cough  takes  me,  I  shall  cough 
out  twenty  matches  afore  I  gets  a  light." 

But  she  finds  the  candle,  and  lights  it  before  the  cough  comes 
on.  It  seizes  her  in  the  moment  of  success,  and  she  sits  down 
rocking  herself  to  and  fro,  and  gasping  at  intervals,  "  Oh,  my  lungs 
is  awful  bad,  my  lungs  is  wore  away  to  cabbage-nets !"  until  the 
fit  is  over.  During  its  continuance  she  has  had  no  power  of  sight, 
or  any  other  power  not  absorbed  in  the  struggle  ;  but  as  it  leaves 
her,  she  begins  to  strain  her  eyes,  and  as  soon  as  she  is  able  to 
articulate,  she  cries,  staring  : 

"  Why,  it's  you  !" 

"  Are  you  so  surprised  to  see  me  ?" 

"  I  thought  I  never  should  have  seen  you  again,  deary.  1 
thought  you  was  dead,  and  gone  to  Heaven." 

"  Why  ?" 

"  I  didn't  suppose  you  could  have  kept  away,  alive,  so  long, 
from  the  poor  old  soul  with  the  real  receipt  for  mixing  it.  And 
you  are  in  mourning  too !  Wh}^  didn't  you  come  and  have  a  pipe 
or  two  of  comfort  ?  Did  they  leave  you  money,  perhaps,  and  so 
you  didn't  want  comfort  ?" 

"No!" 

"  Who  was  they  as  died,  deary  ?" 

"  A  relative." 

"  Died  of  what,  lovey  ?" 

"  Probably,  Death." 

"  We  are  short  to-night !"  cries  the  woman,  with  a  propitiatory 
laugh.  "  Short  and  snapj^ish,  we  are !  But  we're  out  of  sorts  for 
want  of  a  smoke.  We've  got  the  all-overs,  haven't  us,  deary? 
But  this  is  the  place  to  cure  'em  in ;  this  is  the  place  where  the 
all-overs  is  smoked  off!" 

"  You  may  make  ready  then,"  replies  the  visitor,  "  as  soon  as 
you  like." 

He  divests  himself  of  his  shoes,  loosens  his  cravat,  and  lies 
across  the  foot  of  the  squalid  bed,  with  his  head  resting  on  his  left 
hand. 

"  Now,  you  begin  to  look  like  yourself,"  says  the  woman, 
approvingly.  "  Now,  I  begin  to  know  my  old  customer  indeed !' 
Been  trjdng  to  mix  for  yourself  this  long  time,  poppet  ?" 

"  I  have  been  taking  it  now  and  then  in  my  own  way." 

"  Never  take  it  your  own  way.  It  ain't  good  for  trade,  and  it 
ain't  good  for  j^ou.  Where's  my  inkbottle,  and  where's  my  thimble, 
and  where's  my  little  spoon?  He's  going  to  take  it  in  a  artful 
form  now,  my  deary  dear!" 

Entering  on  her  process,  and  beginning  to  bubble  and  blow  at 
the  faint  spark  enclosed  in  the  hollow  of  her  hands,  she  speaks 
from  time  to  time,  in  a  tone  of  snuffling  satisfaction,  without 
leaving  off.  When  he  speaks,  he  does  so  without  looking  at  her, 
and  as  if  his  thoughts  were  alread}^  roaming  away  by  anticipation. 

"  I've  got  a  pretty  many  smokes  ready  for  you,  fii'st  and  last,, 
haven't  I,  chuckey  ?" 

"  A  good  many." 


THE   DAWN    AGAIN.  181 

*'  When  you  first  come,  you  was  quite  new  to  it;  warn't  ye?" 

"  Yes,  I  was  easily  disposed  of,  then." 

"  But  you  got  on  in  the  world,  and  was  able  by-and-by  to  take 
y^our  pipe  with  the  best  of  'em,  warn't  ye  ?" 

"  Ay.     And  the  worst." 

"  It's  just  ready  for  you.  What  a  sweet  singer  you  was  when 
you  first  come!  Used  to  drop  your  head,  and  sing  yourself  off, 
like  a  bird !     It's  ready  for  you  now,  deary." 

He  takes  it  from  her  with  great  care,  and  puts  the  mouthpiece  to 
his  lips.  She  seats  herself  beside  him,  ready  to  refill  the  pipe.  After 
inhaling  a  few  whiffs  in  silence,  he  doubtingly  accosts  her  with : 

"  Is  it  as  potent  as  it  used  to  be  ?" 

"  What  do  you  speak  of,  deary  ?" 

"What  should  I  speak  of,  but  what  I  have  in  my  mouth?" 

"  It's  just  the  same.     Always  the  identical  same." 

"  It  doesn't  taste  so.     And  it's  slower." 

"  You've  got  more  used  to  it,  you  see." 

"  That  may  be  the  cause,  certainly.  Look  here."  He  stops, 
becomes  dreamy,  and  seems  to  forget  that  he  has  invited  her 
attention.     She  bends  over  him,  and  speaks  in  his  ear. 

"  I'm  attending  to  you.  Says  you  just  now,  look  here.  Says 
I  now,  I  am  attending  to  ye.  We  was  talking  just  before  of  your 
being  used  to  it." 

"  I  know  all  that.  I  was  only  thinking.  Look  here.  Suppose 
you  had  something  in  your  mind;  something  you  were  going  to  do." 

"  Yes,  deary ;  something  I  was  going  to  do  ?" 

"  But  had  not  quite  determined  to  do." 

"  Yes,  deary." 

"  Might  or  might  not  do,  you  understand." 

"  Yes."  With  the  point  of  a  needle  she  stirs  the  contents  of  the 
bowl. 

"  Should  you  do  it  in  your  fancy,  when  you  were  lying  here 
doing  this  ?" 

She  nods  her  head.     "  Over  and  over  again." 

"  Just  like  me !  I  did  it  over  and  over  again.  I  have  done  it 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  times  in  this  room." 

*'  It's  to  be  hoped  it  was  pleasant  to  do,  deary." 

"  It  was  pleasant  to  do  !" 

He  says  this  with  a  savage  air,  and  a  spring  or  start  at  her. 
Quite  unmoved,  she  retouches  and  replenishes  the  contents  of  the 
bowl  with  her  little  spatula.  Seeing  her  intent  upon  the  occupa- 
tion, he  sinks  into  his  former  attitude. 

"  It  was  a  journey,  a  difficult  and  dangerous  journey.  That 
was  the  subject  in  my  mind.  A  hazardous  and  perilous  journey, 
over  abysses  where  a  slip  would  be  destruction.  Look  down,  look 
down  !    You  see  what  lies  at  the  bottom  there  ?" 

He  has  darted  forward  to  say  it,  and  to  point  at  the  ground,  as 
though  at  some  imaginary  object  far  beneath.  The  woman  looks 
at  him,  as  his  spasmodic  face  approaches  close  to  hers,  and  not  at 
his  pointing.  She  seems  to  know  what  the  influence  of  her  perfect 
quietude  will  be ;  if  so,  she  has  not  miscalculated  it,  for  he  sub- 
sides again. 


182  THE  MYSTERY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD, 

"Well;  I  have  told  you,  I  did  it,  liere,  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  times.  What  do  I  say  ?  I  did  it  millions  and  billions  of  times. 
I  did  it  so  often,  and  through  such  vast  expanses  of  .time,  that 
when  it  was  really  done,  it  seemed  not  worth  the  doing,  it  was 
done  so  soon." 

"That's  the  journey  you  have  been  away  upon?"  she  quietly 
remarks. 

He  glares  at  her  as  he  smokes ;  and  then,  his  eyes  becoming 
filmy,  answers  :  "  That's  the  journey." 

Silence  ensues.  His  eyes  are  sometimes  closed  and  sometimes 
open.  The  woman  sits  beside  him,  very  attentive  to  the  pipe, 
which  is  all  the  while  at  his  lips. 

"  I'll  warrant,"  she  observes,  when  he  has  been  looking  fixedly 
at  her  for  some  consecutive  moments,  with  a  singular  appearance 
in  his  eyes  of  seeming  to  see  her  a  long  way  off,  instead  of  so  near 
him :  "  I'll  warrant  you  made  the  journey  in  a  many  ways,  when 
3^ou  made  it  so  often  ?" 

"  No,  always  in  one  way." 

"  Always  in  the  same  way  ?" 

"  In  the  way  in  which  it  was  really  made  at  last  ?" 

"  And  always  took  the  same  pleasure  in  harping  on  it  ?" 

"Ay." 

For  the  time  he  appears  unequal  to  any  other  reply  than  this 
lazy  monosyllabic  assent.  Probably  to  assure  herself  that  it  is 
not  the  assent  of  a  mere  automaton,  she  reverses  the  form  of  her 
next  sentence. 

"  Did  you  never  get  tired  of  it,  deary,  and  try  to  call  up  some- 
thing else  for  a  change  ?" 

He  struggles  into  a  sitting  posture,  and  retorts  upon  her : 
"  What  do  you  mean  ?  What  did  I  want  ?  What  did  I  come 
for  ?" 

She  gently  lays  him  back  again,  and,  before  returning  him  the 
instrument  ho  has  dropped,  revives  the  fire  in  it  with  her  own 
breath ;  then  says  to  him,  coaxingly : 

"  Sure,  sure,  sure !  Yes,  yes,  yes  !  Now,  I  go  along  with  you. 
You  was  too  quick  for  me.  I  see  now.  You  come  o'  purpose  to 
take  the  journey.  Why,  I  might  have  known  it,  through  its 
standing  by  you  so." 

He  answers  first  with  a  laugh,  and  then  with  a  passionate 
setting  of  his  teeth  :  "  Yes,  I  came  on  purpose.  When  I  could  not 
bear  my  life,  I  came  to  get  the  relief,  and  I  got  it.  It  was  one ! 
It  WAS  one !"  This  rej^etition  with  extraordinary  vehemence,  and 
the  snarl  of  a  wolf. 

She  observes  him  very  cautiously,  as  though  mentally  feeling 
her  way  to  her  next  remark.  It  is  :  "  There  was  a  fellow-traveller, 
deary." 

"  Ha  ha  ha !"     He  breaks  into  a  ringing  laugh,  or  rather  yell. 

"  To  think,"  he  cries,  "  how  often  fellow-traveller,  and  yet  not 
know  it !  To  think  how  many  times  he  went  the  journey,  and 
never  saw  the  road !" 


THE   DAWN   AGAIN.  183 

The  woman  kneels  upon  the  floor,  with  her  arms  crossed  on  the 
coverlet  of  the  bed,  close  by  him,  and  her  chiD  upon  them.  In  this 
crouching  attitude,  she  watches  him.  The  pipe  is  falling  from 
his  mouth.  She  puts  it  back,  and  laying  her  hand  upon  his  chest, 
moves  him  slightly  from  side  to  side.  Upon  that  he  speaks,  as 
if  she  had  spoken. 

"  Yes !  I  always  made  the  journey  first,  before  the  changes  of 
colours  and  the  great  landscapes  and  glittering  processions  began. 
They  couldn't  begin  till  it  was  off  my  mind.  I  had  no  room  till 
then  for  anything  else." 

Once  more  he  lapses  into  silence.  Once  more  she  lays  her 
hand  upon  his  chest,  and  moves  him  slightly  to  and  fro,  as  a  cat 
might  stimulate  a  half-slain  mouse.  Once  more  he  speaks,  as  if 
she  had  spoken. 

"  What  ?  I  told  you  so.  When  it  comes  to  be  real  at  last,  it  is 
so  short  that  it  seems  unreal  for  the  first  time.     Hark  !' 

"  Yes,  dear}'-.     I'm  listening." 

"  Time  and  place  are  both  at  hand." 

He  is  on  his  feet,  sjDcaking  in  a  whisper,  and  as  if  in  the 
dark. 

"  Time,  place,  and  fellow-traveller,"  she  suggests,  adopting  his 
tone,  and  holding  him  softly  by  the  arm. 

"  How  could  the  time  be  at  hand  unless  the  fellow-traveller  was  ? 
Hush !  The  journey's  made.     It's  over." 

"  So  soon  ?" 

•'  That's  what  I  said  to  you.  So  soon.  Wait  a  little.  This  is  a 
vision.  I  shall  sleep  it  off.  It  has  been  too  short  and  easy.  I 
must  have  a  better  vision  than  this ;  this  is  the  poorest  of  all.  No 
struggle,  no  consciousness  of  peril,  no  entreaty — and  yet  I  never 
saw  that  before."     W^ith  a  start. 

"  Saw  what,  deary  ?" 

"  Look  at  it !  Look  what  a  poor,  mean,  miserable  thing  it  is ! 
That  must  be  real.     It's  over !" 

He  has  accompanied  this  incoherence  with  some  wild  unmeaning 
gestures  ;  but  they  trail  off  into  the  progressive  inaction  of  stupor, 
and  he  lies  a  log  upon  the  bed. 

The  woman,  however,  is  still  inquisitive.  W^ith  a  repetition  of 
her  catlike  action  she  slightly  stirs  his  body  again,  and  listens  ;  stirs 
again,  and  listens ;  whisj)ers  to  it,  and  listens.  Finding  it  past  all 
rousing  for  the  time,  she  slowly  gets  upon  her  feet,  with  an  air 
of  disappointment,  and  flicks  the  face  with  the  back  of  her  hand 
in  turning  from  it. 

But  she  goes  no  further  away  from  it  than  the  chair  upon  the 
hearth.  She  sits  in  it,  with  an  elbow  on  one  of  its  arms,  and  her 
chin  upon  her  hand,  intent  upon  him.  "  I  heard  ye  say  once," 
she  croaks  under  her  breath,  "  I  heard  ye  say  once,  when  I  was 
lying  where  you're  lying,  and  you  were  making  your  sjDcculations 
upon  me,  '  Unintelligible  !'  I  heard  you  say  so,  of  two  more  than 
me.  But  don't  ye  be  too  sure  always;  don't  ye  be  too  sure, 
beauty !" 

Unwinking,  cat-like,  and  intent,  she  presently  adds  :  "  Not  so 
potent  as  it  once  was  ?   Ah !  Perhaps  not  at  fij-st.  You  may  be  more 


184  THE  MYSTEEY  OF  EDWIN  DROOD. 

right  there.     Practice   makes   perfect.     I  may  have  learned  the 
secret  how  to  make  ye  talk,  deary." 

He  talks  no  more,  whether  or  no.  Twitching  in  an  agiy  way 
from  time  to  time,  both  as  to  his  face  and  limbs,  he  lies  heavy  and 
silent.  The  wretched  candle  bums  down;  the  woman  takes  its 
expiring  end  between  her  fingers,  lights  another  at  it,  crams  the 
guttering  frying  morsel  deep  into  the  candlestick,  and  rams  it 
home  with  the  new  candle,  as  if  she  were  loading  some  ill-savoured 
and  unseemly  weapon  of  witchcraft ;  the  new  candle  in  its  turn 
burns  down ;  and  still  he  lies  insensible.  At  length  what  remains 
of  the  last  candle  is  blown  out,  and  daylight  looks  into  the 
room. 

It  has  not  looked  very  long,  when  he  sits  up,  chilled  and  shaking, 
slowly  recovers  consciousness  of  where  he  is,  and  makes  himself 
ready  to  depart.  The  woman  receives  what  he  pays  her  with  a 
grateful  "  Bless  ye,  bless  ye,  deary !"  and  seems,  tired  out,  to 
begin  making  herself  ready  for  sleep  as  he  leaves  the  room. 

But  seeming  may  be  false  or  true.  It  is  false  in  this  case,  for, 
the  moment  the  stairs  have  ceased  to  creak  under  his  tread,  she 
glides  after  him,  muttering  emphatically :  "  I'll  not  miss  ye 
twice !" 

There  is  no  egress  from  the  court  but  by  its  entrance.  With 
a  weird  peep  from  the  doorway,  she  watches  for  his  looking  back. 
He  does  not  look  back  before  disappearing,  with  a  wavering  step. 
She  follows  him,  peeps  from  the  court,  sees  him  still  faltering  on 
without  looking  back,  and  holds  him  in  view. 

He  repairs  to  the  back  of  Aldersgate  Street,  where  a  door  imme- 
diately opens  to  his  knocking.  She  crouches  in  another  doorwaj^, 
watching  that  one,  and  easily  comprehending  that  he  puts  up 
temporarily  at  that  house.  Her  patience  is  unexhausted  by  hours. 
For  sustenance  she  can,  and  does,  buy  bread  within  a  hundred 
yards,  and  milk  as  it  is  carried  past  her. 

He  comes  forth  again  at  noon,  having  changed  his  dress,  but 
carrying  nothing  in  his  hand,  and  having  nothing  carried  for 
him.  He  is  not  going  back  into  the  country,  therefore,  just  yet.  She 
follows  him  a  little  way,  hesitates,  instantaneously  turns  con- 
fidently, and  goes  straight  into  the  house  he  has  quitted. 

''  Is  the  gentleman  from  Cloisterham  indoors  ?" 

"  Just  gone  out." 

*'  Unlucky.    When  does  the  gentleman  return  to  Cloisterham  ?" 

"  At  six  this  evening." 

"  Bless  ye  and  thank  ye.  May  the  Lord  prosper  a  business 
where  a  civil  question,  even  from  a  poor  soul,  is  so  civilly 
answered !" 

"  I'll  not  miss  ye  twice !"  repeats  the  poor  soul  in  the  street,  and 
not  so  civilly.  "  I  lost  ye  last,  where  that  omnibus  you  got  into 
nigh  your  journey's  end  plied  betwixt  the  station  and  the  place. 
I  wasn't  so  much  as  certain  that  you  even  went  right  on  to  the 
place.  Now,  I  know  ye  did.  My  gentleman  from  Cloisterham, 
I'll  be  there  before  ye  and  bide  your  coming.  I've  swore  my  oath 
that  I'll  not  miss  ye  twice !" 
'     Accordingly,  that  same  evening  the  poor  soul  stands  in  Cloister- 


THE   DAWN   AGAIX  185 

ham  High  Street,  looking  at  the  many  quaint  gables  of  the  Xuns' 
House,  and  getting  through  the  time  as  she  best  can  until  nine 
o'clock ;  at  which  hour  she  has  reason  to  suppose  that  the  arriving 
omnibus  passengers  may  have  some  interest  for  her.  The  friendly 
darkness,  at  that  hour,  renders  it  easy  for  her  to  ascertain  whether 
this  be  so  or  not ;  and  it  is  so,  for  the  passenger  not  to  be  missed 
twice  arrives  among  the  rest. 

"  Kow,  let  me  see  what  becomes  of  you.     Go  on  !" 

An  observation  addressed  to  the  air.  And  yet  it  might  be 
addressed  to  the  passenger,  so  compliantly  does  he  go  on  along  the 
High  Street  until  he  comes  to  an  arched  gateway,  at  which  he 
unexpectedly  vanishes.  The  poor  soul  quickens  her  pace ;  is  swift, 
and  close  upon  him  entering  under  the  gateway ;  but  only  sees  a 
postern  staircase  on  one  side  of  it,  and  on  the  other  side  an  ancient 
vaulted  room,  in  which  a  large-headed,  grey-haired  gentleman  is 
writing,  under  the  odd  circumstances  of  sitting  open  to  the 
thoroughfare  and  eyeing  all  who  pass,  as  if  he  werie  toil-taker  of 
the  gateway  :  though  the  way  is  free. 

"  Halloa !"  he  cries  in  a  low  voice,  seeing  her  brought  to  a 
standstill :  "  who  are  you  looking  for?" 

"  There  v/as  a  gentleman  passed  in  here  this  minute,  sir." 

"  Of  course  there  was.     What  do  you  want  with  him  ?" 

"  Where  do  he  live,  deary  ?" 

"  Live  ?     Up  that  staircase." 

"Bless  ye!     Whisper.     What's  his  name,  deary ?" 

"  Surname  Jasper,  Christian  name  John.     Mr.  John  Jasper." 

"  Has  he  a  calling,  good  gentleman?" 

"  Calling  ?     Yes.     Sings  in  the  choir." 

"  In  the  spire  ?" 

"  Choir." 

"  What's  that  ?" 

Mr.  Datchery  rises  from  his  papers,  and  comes  to  his  doorstep. 
**  Do  you  know  what  a  cathedral  is  ?"  he  asks,  jocosely. 

The  woman  nods. 

"  What  is  it  ?" 

She  looks  puzzled,  casting  about  in  her  mind  to  find  a  definition, 
when  it  occurs  to  her  that  it  is  easier  to  point  out  the  substantial 
object  itself,  massive  against  the  dark-blue  sky  and  the  early 
stars. 

"  That's  the  answer.  Go  in  there  at  seven  to-morrow  morning, 
and  you  may  see  Mr,  John  Jasper,  and  hear  him  too." 

"Thank  ye!  Thank  ye  !" 

The  burst  of  triumph  in  which  she  thanks  him,  does  not  escape 
the  notice  of  the  single  buffer  of  an  easy  temper  living  idly  on  his 
means.  He  glances  at  her ;  clasps  his  hands  behind  him,  as  the 
wont  of  such  buff'ers  is ;  and  lounges  along  the  echoing  p)recincts 
at  her  side. 

"  Or,"  he  suggests,  with  a  backward  hitch  of  his  head,  "  you  can 
go  up  at  once  to  Mr.  Jasper's  rooms  there." 

The  woman  eyes  him  with  a  cunning  smile,  and  shakes  her 
head. 

"  Oh  !     You  don't  want  to  speak  to  him  ?" 


186  THE    MYSTERY   OF   EDWIN   DKOOD. 

She  repeats  lier  dumb  reply,  and  forms  with  her  lips  a  soundless 
"No." 

"  You  can  admire  him  at  a  distance  three  times  a  day,  when- 
ever you  like.     It's  a  long  way  to  come  for  that,  though." 

The  woman  looks  up  quickly.  If  Mr.  Datchery  thinks  she  is  to 
be  so  induced  to  declare  where  she  comes  from,  he  is  of  a  much 
easier  temper  than  she  is.  But  she  acquits  him  of  such  an  artful 
thought,  as  he  lounges  along,  like  the  chartered  bore  of  the 
city,  with  his  uncovered  grey  hair  blowing  about,  and  his  pur- 
poseless hands  rattling  the  loose  money  in  the  pockets  of  his 
trousers. 

The  chink  of  the  money  has  an  attraction  for  her  greedy  ears. 
"  Wouldn't  you  help  me  to  pay  for  my  travellers'  lodging,  dear 
gentleman,  and  to  pay  my  way  along  ?  I  am  a  poor  soul,  I  am 
indeed,  and  troubled  with  a  grievous  cough." 

"  You  know  the  travellers'  lodging,  I  perceive,  and  are  making 
directly  for  it,"  is  Mr.  Datchery's  bland  comment,  still  rattling  his 
loose  money.     "  Been  here  often,  my  good  woman  ?" 

"  Once  in  all  my  life." 

"  Ay,  ay  ?" 

They  have  arrived  at  the  entrance  to  the  Monks'  Yineyard.  An 
appropriate  remembrance,  presenting  an  exemplary  model  for 
imitation,  is  revived  in  the  woman's  mind  by  the  sight  of  the 
place.     She  stops  at  the  gate,  and  says  energetically : 

"  By  this  token,  though  you  mayn't  believe  it.  That  a  young 
gentleman  gave  me  three  and  sixpence  as  I  was  coughing  my 
breath  away  on  this  very  grass.  I  asked  him  for  three  and  six- 
pence, and  he  gave  it  me." 

"  Wasn't  it  a  little  cool  to  name  your  sum  ?"  hints  Mr.  Datchery, 
still  rattling.  "  Isn't  it  customary  to  leave  the  amount  open  ? 
Mightn't  it  have  had  the  appearance,  to  the  young  gentleman — 
only  the  appearance — that  he  was  rather  dictated  to  ?" 

"  Looke'e  here,  deary,"  she  replies,  in  a  confidential  and  per- 
suasive tone,  "  I  wanted  the  money  to  lay  it  out  on  a  medicine  as 
does  me  good,  and  as  I  deal  in.  I  told  the  young  gentleman  so, 
and  he  gave  it  me,  and  I  laid  it  out  honest  to  the  last  brass  farden. 
I  want  to  lay  out  the  same  sum  in  the  same  way  now ;  and  if 
you'll  give  it  me,  I'll  lay  it  out  honest  to  the  last  brass  farden 
again,  upon  my  soul !" 

"  What's  the  medicine  ?" 

"I'll  be  honest  with  you  beforehand,  as  well  as  after.  It's 
opium." 

Mr.  Datchery,  with  a  sudden  change  of  countenance,  gives  her 
a  sudden  look. 

■  "  It's  opium,  deary.  Neither  more  nor  less.  And  it's  like  a 
human  creetur  so  far,  that  you  always  hear  what  can  be  said 
against  it,  but  seldom  what  can  be  said  in  its  praise." 

Mr.  Datchery  begins  very  slowly  to  count  out  the  sum  demanded 
of  him.  Greedily  watching  his  hands,  she  continues  to  hold  forth 
on  the  great  example  set  him. 

"  It  was  last  Christmas  Eve,  just  arter  dark,  the  once  that  I  was 
here  afore,  when  the  young  gentleman  gave  me  the  three  and  six." 


THE   DAWN   AGAIN.  187 

Mr.  Datchery  stops  in  his  counting,  finds  lie  has  counted  wrong, 
shakes  his  money  together,  and  begins  again. 

"  And  the  young  gentleman's  name,"  she  adds,  "  was  Edwin." 

Mr.  Datchery  drops  some  money,  stoops  to  pick  it  up,  and 
reddens  with  the  exertion  as  he  asks  : 

"  How  do  you  know  the  young  gentleman's  name  ?" 

"  I  asked  him  for  it,  and  he  told  it  me.  I  only  asked  him  the 
two  questions,  what  was  his  Chris'en  name,  and  whether  he'd  a 
sweetheart  ?     And  he  answered,  Edwin,  and  he  hadn't." 

Mr.  Datchery  pauses  with  the  selected  coins  in  his  hand,  rather 
as  if  he  were  falling  into  a  brown  study  of  their  value,  and 
couldn't  bear  to  part  with  them.  The  woman  looks  at  him  dis- 
trustfully, and  with  her  anger  brewing  for  the  event  of  his 
thinking  better  of  the  gift ;  but  he  bestows  it  on  her  as  if  he 
were  abstracting  his  mind  from  the  sacrifice,  and  with  many 
servile  thanks  she  goes  her  way. 

John  Jasper's  lamp  is  kindled,  and  his  Lighthouse  is  shining 
when  Mr.  Datchery  returns  alone  towards  it.  As  mariners  on  a 
dangerous  voyage,  approaching  an  iron-bound  coast,  may  look 
along  the  beams  of  the  warning  light  to  the  haven  lying  beyond 
it  that  may  never  be  reached,  so  Mr.  Datchery's  wistful  gaze  is 
directed  to  this  beacon,  and  beyond. 

His  object  in  now  revisiting  his  lodging,  is  merely  to  put  on  the 
hat  which  seems  so  superfluous  an  article  in  his  wardrobe.  It  is 
half-past  ten  by  the  cathedral  clock,  when  he  walks  out  into  the 
Precincts  again  ;  he  lingers  and  looks  about  him,  as  though,  the 
enchanted  hour  when  Mr.  Durdles  may  be  stoned  home  having 
struck,  he  had  some  expectation  of  seeing  the  Imp  who  is  appointed 
to  the  mission  of  stoning  him. 

In  effect,  that  Power  of  Evil  is  abroad.  Having  nothing  living 
to  stone  at  the  moment,  he  is  discovered  by  Mr.  Datchery  in  the 
unholy  office  of  stoning  the  dead,  through  the  railings  of  the 
churchyard.  The  Imp  finds  this  a  relishing  and  piquing  pursuit ; 
firstly,  because  their  resting-place  is  announced  to  be  sacred  ;  and 
secondly,  because  the  tall  headstones  are  sufficiently  like  them- 
selves, on  their  beat  in  the  dark,  to  justify  the  delicious  fancy 
that  they  are  hurt  when  hit. 

Mr.  Datchery  hails  him  with  :  "  Halloa,  Winks !" 

He  acknowledges  the  hail  with  :  "  Halloa,  Dick  !"  Their 
acquaintance  seemingly  having  been  established  on  a  familiar 
footing.    . 

"  But  I  say,"  he  remonstrates,  "  don't  yer  go  a  making  my  name 
public.  I  never  means  to  plead  to  no  name,  mind  yer.  When 
they  says  to  me  in  the  Lock-up,  a  going  to  put  me  down  in  the 
book,  '  What's  your  name  ?'  I  says  to  them  '  Find  out.'  Likeways 
when  the}^  says  '  What's  your  religion  ?'  I  says,  '  Find  out.'  " 

Which,  it  may  be  observed  in  passing,  it  would  be  immensely 
difficult  for  the  State,  however  statistical,  to  do. 

"  Asides  which,"  adds  the  boy,  "  there  ain't  no  family  of 
Winkses." 

"  I  think  there  must  be." 

"Yer  lie,   there  ain't.      The  travellers  give  me  the  name  on 


188  THE    MYSTERY    OF   EDWIN   DROOD. 

account  of  my  getting  no  settled  sleep  and  being  knocked  up  all 
night ;  whereby  I  gets  one  eye  roused  open  afore  I've  shut  the 
other.  That's  what  Winks  means.  Deputy's  the  nighest  name 
to  indict  me  by  :  but  yer  wouldn't  catch  me  pleading  to  that, 
neither." 

"  Deputy  be  it  always,  then.  We  two  are  good  friends ;  eh. 
Deputy  ?" 

"  Jolly  good." 

"  I  forgave  you  the  debt  you  owed  me  when  we  first  became 
acquainted,  and  manv  of  my  sixpences  have  come  your  wav  since  ; 
eh,  Deputy  ?" 

"  Ah  !  And  what's  more,  yer  ain't  no  friend  o'  Jarsper's.  What 
did  he  go  a  histing  me  off  my  legs  for  ?" 

"  What  indeed !  But  never  mind  him  now.  A  shilling  of  mine 
is  going  your  way  to-night,  Deputy.  You  have  just  taken  in  a 
lodger  I  have  been  speaking  to ;  an  infirm  woman  with  a 
cough." 

"  Puffer,"  assents  Deputy,  with  a  shrewd  leer  of  recognition, 
and  smoking  an  imaginary  pipe,  with  his  head  very  much  on  one 
side  and  his  eyes  very  much  out  of  their  places :  "  Hopeum 
Puffer." 

"  What  is  her  name  ?" 

"  'Er  Eoyal  Highness  the  Princess  Puffer." 

"  She  has  some  other  name  than  that ;  where  does  she  live  ?" 

"  Up  in  London.     Among  the  Jacks." 

"  The  sailors  ?" 

"  I  said  so;  Jacks.     And  Chayner  men.     And  bother  Knifers." 

"  I  should  like  to  know,  through  you,  exactly  where  she 
lives." 

"  All  right.     Give  us  'old." 

A  shilling  passes ;  and,  in  that  spirit  of  confidence  which  should 
pervade  all  business  transactions  between  principals  of  honor,  this 
piece  of  business  is  considered  done. 

"  But  here's  a  lark !"  cries  Deputy.  "  Where  did  yer  think  'Er 
Royal  Highness  is  a  goin'  to,  to-morrow  morning  ?  Blest  if  she 
ain't  a  goin'  to  the  Kin-free-der-el  !"  He  greatly  prolongs  the 
word  in  his  ecstacy,  and  smites  his  leg,  and  doubles  himself  up  in 
a  fit  of  shrill  laughter. 

"  How  do  you  know  that.  Deputy  ?" 

"  Cos  she  told  me  so  just  now.  She  said  she  must  be  hup  and 
hout  o'  purpose.  She  ses,  '  Deputy,  I  must  'ave  a  early  wash, 
and  make  myself  as  swell  as  I  can,  for  I'm  a  goin'  to  take  a  turn 
at  the  KiN-FREE-DER-EL !'  "  He  separates  the  syllables  with  his 
former  zest,  and,  not  finding  his  sense  of  the  ludicrous  sufficiently 
relieved  by  stamping  about  on  the  pavement,  breaks  into  a  slow 
and  stately  dance,  perhaps  supposed  to  be  performed  by  the 
Dean. 

^Ir.  Datchery  receives  the  communication  with  a  well-satisfied 
though  a  pondering  face,  and  l)rcaks  up  the  conference.  Returning 
to  his  quaint  lodging,  and  sitting  long  over  the  supper  of  bread 
and  cheese  and  salad  and  ale  which  Mrs.  Tope  has  left  prepared 
for  him,  he  still  sits  when  his  supper  is  finished.     At  length  he 


THE   DAWN    AGAIN.  189 

rises,  throws  open  the  door  of  a  corner  cupboard,  and  refers  to  a 
few  uncouth  chalked  strokes  on  its  inner  side. 

"  I  like,"  says  Mr.  Datchery,  "  the  old  tavern  way  of  keeping^ 
scores.  Illegible,  except  to  the  scorer.  The  scorer  not  committed, 
the  scored  debited  with  what  is  against  him.  Hum  ;  ha  !  A  very 
small  score  this ;  a  very  poor  score !" 

He  sighs  over  the  contemplation  of  its  poverty,  takes  a  bit  of 
chalk  from  one  of  the  cupboard  shelves,  and  pauses  with  it  in  his 
hand,  uncertain  what  addition  to  make  to  the  account. 

"  I  think  a  moderate  stroke,"  he  concludes,  "  is  all  I  am  justified 
in  scoring  up;"  so,  suits  the  action  to  the  word,  closes  the  cup- 
board, and  goes  to  bed. 

A  brilliant  morning  shines  on  the  old  city.  Its  antiquities  and 
ruins  are  surjDassingly  beautiful,  with  the  lusty  ivy  gleaming  in 
the  sun,  and  the  rich  trees  waving  in  the  balmy  air.  Changes  of 
glorious  light  from  moving  boughs,  songs  of  birds,  scents  from 
gardens,  woods,  and  fields — or,  rather,  from  the  one  great  garden 
of  the  whole  cultivated  island  in  its  yielding  time — penetrate  into 
the  Cathedral,  subdue  its  earthy  odour,  and  preach  the  Eesurrection 
and  the  Life.  The  cold  stone  tombs  of  centuries  ago  grow  warm ; 
and  flecks  of  brightness  dart  into  the  sternest  marble  corners  of 
the  building,  fluttering  there  like  wings. 

Comes  Mr.  Tope  with  his  large  keys,  and  ya^v^mingly  unlocks 
and  sets  open.  Come  Mrs.  Tope,  and  attendant  sweeping  sprites. 
Come,  in  due  time,  organist  and  bellows-boy,  peeping  down  from 
the  red  curtains  in  the  loft,  fearlessly  flapping  dust  from  books  up 
at  that  remote  elevation,  and  whisking  it  from  stops  and  pedals. 
Come  sundry  rooks,  from  various  quarters  of  the  sky,  back  to  the 
great  tower ;  who  may  be  presumed  to  enjoy  vibration,  and  to 
know  that  bell  and  organ  are  going  to  give  it  them.  Come  a  very 
small  and  straggling  congregation  indeed  :  chiefly  from  Minor 
Canon  Corner  and  the  Precincts.  Come  Mr.  Crisparkle,  fresh  and 
bright  ;  and  his  ministering  brethren,  not  quite  so  fresh  and 
bright.  Come  the  Choir  in  a  hurry  (always  in  a  hurry,  and  strug- 
gling into  their  nightgowns  at  the  last  moment,  like  children 
shirking  bed;,  and  comes  John  Jasper  leading  their  line.  Last  of 
all  comes  Mr.  Datchery  into  a  stall,  one  of  a  choice  em^^ty  col- 
lection very  much  at  his  service,  and  glancing  about  him  for  Her 
Royal  Highness  the  Princess  Puffer. 

The  service  is  pretty  well  advanced  before  Mr.  Datchery  can 
discern  Her  Royal  Highness.  But  by  that  time  he  has  made  her 
out,  in  the  shade.  She  is  behind  a  pillar,  carefully  withdrawn 
from  the  Choir  Master's  view,  but  regards  him  with  the  closest 
attention.  All  unconscious  of  her  presence,  he  chants  and  sings. 
She  grins  when  he  is  most  musically  fervid,  and — yes,  Mr.  Dat- 
chery sees  her  do  it ! — shakes  her  fist  at  him  behind  the  pillar's 
friendly  shelter. 

Mr.  Datchery  looks  again  to  convince  himself.  Yes,  again ! 
As  ugly  and  withered  as  one  of  the  fantastic  carvings  on  the 
under  brackets  of  the  stall  seats,  as  malignant  as  the  Evil  One,  as 
hard  as  the  big  brass  eagle  holding  the  sacred  books  upon  his 
wings  (and,  according  to  the  sculptor's  representation  of  his  fero- 


190  THE  MYSTERY  OF  ED^^TN  DKOOD. 

cious  attributes,  not  at  all  converted  b}^  tliem),  slie  lings  Herself 
in  her  lean  arms,  and  tlien  shakes  both  fists  at  the  leader  of  the 
Ohoir. 

And  at  that  moment,  outside  the  grated  door  of  the  Choir, 
having  eluded  the  vigilance  of  Mr.  Tope  by  shifty  resources  in 
which  he  is  an  adept,  Deputy  peeps,  sharp-eyed,  through  the  bars, 
and  stares  astounded  from  the  threatener  to  the  threatened. 

The  service  comes  to  an  end,  and  the  servitors  disperse  to 
breakfast.  Mr.  Datchery  accosts  his  last  new  acquaintance  out- 
side, when  the  Choir  (as  much  in  a  hurry  to  get  their  bedgowns 
oif,  as  they  were  but  now  to  get  them  on)  have  scuffled  away. 

"  Well,  mistress.     Good-morning.     You  have  seen  him  ?" 

"  J've  seen  him,  deary ;  J'vc  seen  him  !" 

"  And  you  know  him  ?" 

"  Know  him !  Better  far,  than  all  the  Eeverend  Parsons  put 
to2:ether  know  him." 

Mrs.  Tope's  care  has  spread  a  very  neat,  clean  breakfast  ready 
for  her  lodger.  Before  sitting  down  to  it,  he  opens  his  corner- 
cupboard  door;  takes  his  bit  of  chalk  from  its  shelf;  adds  one 
thick  line  to  the  score,  extending  from  the  top  of  the  cupboard 
door  to  the  bottom ;  and  then  falls  to  with  an  appetite. 


££. 


U)NDON  r  PfirNTEn  by  WILUAM  CLOWES  AND  SONS,  STAMFORD  STEKET  AITD  CHARING  CROSS. 


CHARLES   DICKENS'S  WORKS. 

ORIGINAL  EDITIONS. 

OUR  MUTUAL   FRIEND.    With  Forty  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone.     2  vols.     Demy 

8vo.,  cloth 

THE    PICKWICK    PAPERS.     With   Forty-three   Illustrations  by   Seymour  and  'Phiz.' 

Demy  8vo.,  cloth    . 

NICHOLAS  NICKLEBY.     With  Forty  Illustrations  by  '  Phiz.'     Demy  8vo.,  cloth      . 
SKETCHES  BY  '  BOZ.'     A  new  edition,  with  Forty  Illustrations  by  George  Cruikshaxk 

Demy  8vo.,  cloth 

MARTIN  CHUZZLEWIT.     With  Forty  Illustrations  by  '  Phiz.'    Demy  8vo.,  cloth     . 
THE  OLD  CURIOSITY  SHOP.     With  Seventy-five  Illustrations  by  George  Cattermole 

and  H.  K.  Browne.     Imperial  8vo.,  cloth 

BARNABY  RUDGE :  a  Tale  of  the  Riots  of  'Eighty.     With  Seventy-eight  Illustrations  by 

G.  Cattermole  and  H.  K.  Browne.     Imperial  8vo.,  cloth 

OLIVER  TWIST.     With  Twenty-four  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo.,  cloth 

DOMBEY  AND  SON.     With  Forty  Illustrations  by  '  Phiz.'     Demy  8vo.,  cloth  . 

DAVID  COPPERFIELD.     With  Forty  Illustrations  by  '  Phiz.'     Demy  8vo.,  cloth 

BLEAK  HOUSE.     With  Forty  Illustrations  by  '  Phiz.'     Demy  8vo.,  cloth   . 

LITTLE  DORRIT.     With  Forty  Illustrations  by  '  Phiz.'     Demy  8vo.,  cloth 

A  TALE  OF  TWO  CITIES.    With  Sixteen  Illustrations  by  'Phiz.'    Demy  8vo.,  cloth 

HARD  TIMES.     Small  8vo.,  cloth 

THE  UNCOMMERCIAL  TRAVELLER.     Third  edition,  crown  8vo.,  cloth 


£,   s.  d. 


X 

I 


o  13 
o  13 

O    II 
Z       I 


1 
I 
I 
o 
o 
o 


o 
o 


o 
o 


o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 


ILLUSTRATED  LIBRAR 

With  the  Original  Illustrations,  26  vols.,  post 

PICKWICK  PAPERS 

NICHOLAS  NICKLEBY       

MARTIN  CHUZZLEWIT 

OLD  CURIOSITY  SHOP 

BARNABY  RUDGE        

SKETCHES  BY  BOZ 

OLIVER  TWIST 

DOMBEY  AND  SON 

DAVID  COPPERFIELD 

PICTURES  FROM  ITALY,  AND  AMERICAN  NOTES. 

BLEAK  HOUSE     

LITTLE  DORRIT 

CHRISTMAS  BOOKS 

A  TALE  OF  TWO  CITIES 

GREAT  EXPECTATIONS 

OUR  MUTUAL  FRIEND      .         .         .         .   '     . 


Y  EDITION. 

8vo.,  cloth,  Zs.  per  volume. 


With  43  Illustrations, 

2  vols. 

G 

iC 

0 

With  39 

ditto 

2  vols. 

0 

16 

0 

With  40 

ditto 

2  vols.     . 

0 

iC 

0 

With  36 

ditto 

2  vols. 

0 

i3 

0 

With  36 

ditto 

2  vols. 

0 

t6 

0 

With  39 

ditto 

I  vol. 

0 

8 

0 

With  24 

ditto 

I  vol. 

0 

8 

0 

With  38 

ditto 

2  vols. 

0 

16 

0 

With  38 

ditto 

2  vols. 

0 

16 

0 

With    8 

ditto 

I  vol. 

0 

8 

0 

With  40 

ditto 

2  vols.       , 

0 

16 

0 

With  40 

ditto 

2  vols. 

0 

16 

0 

With  17 

ditto 

I  vol. 

0 

8 

0 

With  16 

ditto 

I  vol. 

0 

8 

0 

With    8 

ditto 

I  vol. 

0 

8 

0 

\\"\\\\  40 

ditto 

2  vols. 

0 

16 

0 

CHEAP  AND  UNIFORM  EDITION. 

With  Frontispieces,  i8  vols.,  crown  8vo.,  cloth. 
£   s.  d. 


THE  PICKWICK  PAPERS 

0 

5 

0 

NICHOLAS  NICKLEBY . 

.        .      0 

5 

0 

MARTIN  CHUZZLEWIT 

.      0 

5 

0 

DOMBEY  AND  SON 

0 

5 

0 

DAVID  COPPERFIELD   . 

.      0 

5 

0 

BLEAK  HOUSE 

.        .      0 

5 

0 

LITTLE  DORRIT      . 

0 

5 

0 

BARNABY  RUDGE . 

0 

4 

0 

OLD  CURIOSITY  SHOP 

0 

4 

0 

OLIVER  TWIST 

0 

3 

6 

SKETCHES  BY  BOZ 

CHRISTiMAS  BOOKS 

GREAT  EXPECTATIONS 

AMERICAN  NOTES 

A  TALE  OF  TWO  CITIES       . 

THE    UNCOMMERCIAL    TRA- 
VELLER     

HARD    TIMES,  AND    PICTURES 
FROM  ITALY  .... 

OUR  MUTUAL  FRIEND 


o 
o 
o 
o 
o 


o 
o 


d. 

6 
6 
6 
6 
o 


6 
o 


vols. 


I  vol. 


New  and   Cheaper 


THE  PEOPLE'S  EDITION. 

Crown  8vo.,  boards,  is.  per  volume. 

THE  PICKWICK   PAPERS.    2  vols 

OLIVER  TWIST.     1  vol 

NICHOLAS  NICKLEBY.    2  vols 

BARNABY  RUDGE,  AND  REPRINTED  PIECES. 

CHRISTMAS   BOOKS,     i  vol 

DOMBEY  AND  SON.     2  vols 

DAVID  COPPERFIELD.     2  vols 

OLD  CURIOSITY  SHOP  AND  HARD  TIMES.     2  vols. 

SKETCHES  BY  BOZ.     i  vol 

MARTIN  CHUZZLEWIT.    2  vols 

A  TALE  OF  TWO  CITIES,     i  vol 

BLEAK   HOUSE.    2  vols 

THE  UNCOMMERCIAL  TRAVELLER,    i  vol. 

LITTLE  DORRIT.     2  vols 

AMERICAN  NOTES,  AND  PICTURES  FROM  ITALY 

GREAT  EXPECTATIONS,     i  vol 

A   CHILD'S   HISTORY  OF   ENGLAND.     By  Charles  Dickens 

edition,  with  Illustrations  by  Marcus  Stone.     Crown  8vo.,  cloth  ...... 

THE  'CHARLES  DICKENS'  EDITION. 

18  vols.,  royal   i6mo.,  with   Illustrations,   bound   in   bevelled   cloth,  £2,    i8j.   the  set;    or  in 
Roxburgh  binding,  £■>>  lOJ-  \  morocco  extra,  in  14  vols.    ..... 

The  same  in  14  vols.,  half-bound,  calf  half  extra  (Hayday's  C.  S.  pattern) 
„  „  „  mo-rocco 

THE  PICKWICK  PAPERS 

BARNABY  RUDGE    

MARTIN  CHUZZLEWIT   .  .... 

OLIVER  TWIST 

DOMBEY  AND  SON 

OLD  CURIOSITY  SHOP 

NICHOLAS  NICKLEBY    

DAVID  COPPERFIELD 

CHRISTMAS  BOOKS 

BLEAK  HOUSE 

A  TALE  OF  TWO  CITIES 

SKETCHES  BY  BOZ 

AMERICAN  NOTES,  AND  REPRINTED  PIECES 

LITTLE  DORRIT 

OUR  MUTUAL  FRIEND 

GREAT  EXPECTATIONS  ' 

HARD  TIMES,  AND  PICTURES  FROM  ITALY  . 
THE  UNCOMMERCIAL  TRAVELLER  . 


With  8  Illustrations 
With  8        ditto 


With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  8 

ditto 

With  4 

ditto 

£ 

s. 

d. 

0 

4 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

4 

a 

0 

4 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

0 

6 

6 

0 

4 

4 

0 

4 

4 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

3 

6 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

3 

o. 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

6 

0 

3 

6 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

0 

0 

3 

0 

MR.  DICKENS'S  READINGS. 

A  CHRISTMAS  CAROL  IN  PROSE o    i    a 

THE  CRICKET  ON  THE  HEARTH 010 

THE  CHIMES o    i     o 

THE  STORY  OF  LITTLE   DOMBEY 010 

THE  POOR  TRAVELLER,  BOOTS  AT  THE  HOLLY-TREE  INN,  AND  MRS.  GAMP  o    i    o 

ILLUSTRATED  EDITION  OF 
THE    CHRISTMAS    BOOKS:    containing— The    Christmas   Carol;    The    Cricket  on  the 
Hearth;  The  Chimes;    The  Battle  of  Life  ;  The   Haunted   House.      In   i   handsome 
volume,  with  all  the  original  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo.   .         .         .         .         .         .         .      o  12    o 


May,  1872. 


Issued  Monthly. 


CATALOGUE 


OF 


ew  and  Second-Hai 

BOOKS, 

OFFERED  AT 

REDUCED    I=>RICES 


BY 


V^     H.    SMITH     &     SON, 

186,      STK^ND,      LONDON. 

» 

ORDERS     RECEIVED     AT     1 86,     STRAND,     LONDON,     OR     AT     THE      RAILWAY 
BOOKSTALLS,     TO    WHICH    THEY    ARE    FORWARDED    CARRIAGE    PAID. 


ft 

CONTENTS. 

n 

PAGE 

PAGH 

Ainsworth's  Novels 

...  21 

Maxwell's  Novels 

•  •• 

...    21 

Beeton's  Books    ... 

...     2 

Macaulay's  Works 

■  •  • 

...    12 

Braddon's,  Miss,  Novels 

...  22 

Marryat's  Novels... 

•  •  • 

...  21 

Byron's  Works     ... 

...     4 

Miller's,  Hugh,  Works 

•  •• 

...  13 

Cooper's  Novels   ... 

...  20 

Milman's  Works  ... 

•  •  • 

...  13 

Dickens's  Complete  Works, 

20  &  23 

Morris's  British  Birds 

•  •• 

...  13 

Disraeli's  Novels ... 

•  •  • 

...  23 

Miscellaneous 

•  •• 

...     1 

Dixon's,  W.  Hepworth, 

Works 

•  ••          0 

Motley's  Histories 

•  •  • 

...   13 

Dumas's  Novels    ... 

...  21 

Novels   ... 

•  •  • 

...  20 

Fielding's  Works... 

...  24 

-  Prescott's  Historical  Works 

...  15 

Figuier's  Works  ... 

6 

Riddell's,  Mrs.,  Novels 

..  27 

Froude's  Histories 

...     7 

Scott's  Novels 

...  16, 

21,  &28 

Grant's  Novels     ... 

21&24 

Shakespeare's  Works 

...   16 

John  Halifax's  Novels 

...  25 

Smedley's  Novels 

21  &  28 

Kingsley's,  Henry,  Novels... 

...  25 

Smiles's  Works    ... 

...  17 

Lever's  Novels 

•  •  ■ 

21  &  25 

Tennyson's  Works 

..  18 

Lover's  Novels 

•  •  • 

...  26* 

Trollope's  Novels 

...  21 

Lytton's  Novels    ... 

•  •• 

...  21 

Thackeray's  Novels 

...  18 

Magazines 

•  t» 

...  30 

Advertisements 

JENNER    &    KNEWSTUB, 


TO    HER    MAJESTY   THE    QUEEN, 

TO  THEIR  ROYAL  HIGHNESSES  THE  PRINCE  AND   PRINCESS  OF  WALES, 

TO  HER  IMPERIAL  MAJESTY  THE  EMPRESS  OF  THE   FRENCH, 

AND  PRINCIPAL  COURTS  OF  EUROPE, 

JewellerSj    G-oldsmiths,    Silversmitlis,    Engravers, 

AND 

DESIGNERS  OF  MONOGRAM  JEWELLERY, 


New    Designs  for    Jewellery,    Bridesmaids^    Locket s,    ^c.,    made    without 
(barge  by  their  own  special  artists  on  the  premises. 

All  kinds  of  Gold  and  Silver  Work  of  the  most  fashionable  designs 

and  best  workmanship,  including : — 


BRACELETS 
BROOCHES 
CLOCKS 
CHAINS 
CHATELAINES 
CHRISTENING  PRESENTS 
CLARET  JUGS 
EARRINGS 

GOLD  ALBERT  CHAINS 
CARD  CASES 

CIGARETTE  CASES 
CHARMS 
COMPASSES 
FUSEE  BOXES 
KEY  RINGS 
KEYS  (Bramah) 
LATCH  KEYS 


V 


a 


a 


J5 


»l 


» 


15 


II 


GOLD  PENCIL  CASES 
„       SWIVELS 
„       WHISTLES 

GEM  RINGS 

LOCKETS 

MONOGRAM  LOCKETS 

NECKLACES 

ONYX  JEWELLERY 

SETS  OF  RINGS 

SCARF  PINS 
,,       RINGS 

SLEEVE  LINKS 

STUDS 

SIGNET  RINGS 

VASES 

WATCHES 

ETC.,         ETC. 


All  kinds  of  JE-wiEttiSRY  <Sc  Gold  6c  Silver  Work:, 

ESTIMATED  FOR  AND  MANUFACTURED  TO  ORDER. 

Messrs.  yenner  £r»  Knew  stub  and  tkeir  Representatives  10  ait  upon 
their  Patrons  in  the  cou7itry  at  a  few  hours'  notice,  with  a  splendid  assort- 
ment of  Jewellery,  and  other  articles  statable  as  Presents. 


JENNER   AND    KNEWSTUB, 
Inventors   of   Jewelled   Note   Paper, 

33  57".  JAMES'S  STREET,  i5f  66  JERMTN  STREET. 


A  Catalogue  of  Books  m  Elegant  Bindings,  Suitable  for  Presents  and  Gentle- 
nien's  Libraries,  is  now  ready,  a^  can  be  bad  upon  Application  at  tbe 
Bookstalls,  or,  186,  Strand,  London. 

CATALOGUE. 


BIOGRAPHY,   HISTORY,   TRAVEL,   ETC. 
(Novels,  see  Page  20.) 


I^ISOBIL.ILj^^ISrEOXJS. 

Books  marked  thus  :  *,  are  New,  Covers  Faded. 

Ori^na!       gecond-hacd 
Pabliehed  lYice       OfEered  at 

Abbott,  E.  A.  &  Seeley,  J.  R.  English  Lessons  for  iEngli8h  People 
Abont,  E.The  Fellah:  Translated  by  Sir  R.  ttobertb,  Bi.  new  (Ss.  6cl.) 

Accessible  Field  Spoits.     By  Parker  Gilmore (new  38.  od.) 

Adams,  H.  Gt.  Our  Feathered  Families.  Illustrated  (new  2s.  6d.) 

Adolphus,  John.     Recollections  of.     By  His  Daughter     , 12 

Agnew,  D,  C.  A.     Protestant  Exiles  from  France  in  the  Reign 

of  Louis  XIV.    2  vols. 

Alford,  Henry.    Truth  and  Trust,    Lessons  of  the  War 

Allen,  C.  H.     A  Visit  to  Queensland  

^ All  the  Year  Round.     Vols.  3  and  5.     New  Series  ...each 

Angler's,  An,  Rambles ;  and  Angling  Songs.    By  T.  Tod  Stoddart 

m. ■ i- —     new 

Anne  of  Austria.  Regency  of .    By  M.  W.  IVeer.    2  vols 

-— «--_-----^_-____— -__----—---_-—--—----— .——-         new 


2  vols,  in  1    (neWj  4s.) 


••••»•«•• 


*Arabian  Nights'  Entertainments.     8vo 

Arnold,  Matthew.     Friendship's  Garland      .........  

— R.  A.  From  the  Levant  to  the  Black  Sea.  2  vis.  (new  3s.  6d.) 

Art  and  Mystery  of  Making  British  Wines,  Liqueurs,  &c 7 

' — '-^ — —     new 


Curing  Meats,  &c.  (new  2s.) 


8. 

d. 

8. 

d. 

4 

6       .4. 

3 

0 

9 

0  ... 

1 

6 

9 

0  ... 

2 

0 

3 

6  ... 

2 

0 

12 

0  ... 

6 

0 

14 

0  ... 

8 

6 

3 

6  ... 

2 

6 

8 

0  ... 

3 

0 

«  •  • 

3 

6 

9 

0  ... 

3 

0 

9 

0      .M 

5 

0 

30 

0  .., 

2 

6 

30 

0  ... 

5 

0 

5 

6  ... 

2 

6 

3 

B  ... 

2 

6 

4 

6  ... 

3 

0 

20 

0  ... 

2 

0 

7 

6  ..-« 

1 

6 

7 

6  ,„ 

2 

0 

4 

6  ... 

1 

6 

Atkinson,  T.  W.     Travels  in  the  Regions  of  the  Upper  and 
Lower  Amoor.     With  Map,  Col.  Plate,  and  Illustrations, 

royal  8vo new  42  0  ...  10  6 

Atterbury,  Francis,  Bishop  of  Rochester.     Memoirs  and  Corres- 
pondence of.    By  F.  Williams.     2  vols  v£w  28  0  ...  12  0 

Austen,  J.  A.     Memoir  of,  to  which  is  added  Lady  Susan 6  0  ...  3  6 

-  Jane.     A  Memoir  of.     By  J.  E.  Austen  Leigh  (new  5s.)  12  0  ...  3  0 

Austin,  A.    The  Golden  Age  ,...,>....             7  t)  ...  3  ^ 

*Austin,  Alfred.     The  Season  :  a  Satire       ........  6  0  ...  3  0 

Baker,  Sir  S.  W.     The  Nile  Tributaries  of  Abyssinia     7if.-cf.  ex.  ...  8  6 

_— >^ Albert  N'Yanza                             half -calf  extra  ...  8  6 

Bancroft,  G.  History  of  the  United  States.  7  vis.,  half -roan  Ttew  21  0  ,,,  12  -0 

Barham,  R.  H.  Thos.  "Ingoldsby."  Life  and  Letters  of.   2  vols.  21  0  ...  5  ^ 

Barker,  Lady.     Spring  Comedies 10  6  ...  3  0 

Station  Life  in  New  Zealand    .........  7  "6  ...  4  0 

— Stories  About   .........  '4  6...  2  6 

Travelling  About    ...             ;6  0...  3  6 

Barnes,  W.     Poems  of  Rural  Life  ... (newds.Qd.)  4  6  ,,,  2  0 

Barry,  W.     Moorland  and  Stream    ...             7  «  v.,  3  0 

Barwell,  R.,  F.R.C.S.    Guide  in  the  Sick  Room                   ...new  3  6  ,,,  1  6 
Battle-Fields  of  the  South,  from  Bull's  Run  to  Fredericksburg. 

By  an  English  Combatant.     2  vols,  (new  58.)  21  0  ,„  3  0 

,Baur,  William.     Religious  Life  in  Germany.     2  vols 16  0  ,*,  6  0 

*Beauties  of  Poetry  and  Art.     Numerous  Coloured  and  other 
Engravings   on  toned  paper,   small  4to,   cloth  elegant, 

gilt  edges ......... T5  0  ,„  5  0 

"  Beggynhof,"  The,  or  the  City  of  the  Single (new  Sa.  6d.)  6  0  ...  2  0 


2  W.   H.  SJiilTn  AND  SON'S  ESDUCSD   PBI03  LIST   FOB   MAY. 

Original        Second-hand 
Published  Price       Offered  at 

B  d  S        d 

Beeton'g    Dictionary  of   Ufiiversal   Information,  comprising 

Sciences,  Arts,  &c.  8vo  half-roan     15    0  ...10    0 

■--—-—«===-=---==------• Universal   Information,    comprising 

Geography,  Biography,  &c.,  half-roan^  new    15    0  ...  10    0 
Belcher,  Lady.    The  Mutineers  of  the  Bounty    ...  ,,..,....     12    0  ...     6    0 

Bell,  George.     Rough  Notes,  by  an  Old  Soldier  ...  half-calf  ...     5     6 

Bellair's  Nona.    Hardy  Ferns  :  How  I  Collected  and  Cultivated 

them  , ,,e  ...  new      5    0  ...     3    6 

,»-..,-»», Wayside  Flora .; ...new      6    0  ...     3    0 

Bell,  Sir  Charles.     Letters  of.     Edited  by  G.  J.  Bell         .........     12     0...     7     6 

Bennett,  F.  W.     Leaves  from  my  Log  newly  half-hound  ,,,     1     6 

Berkeley,  Hon.  G.F.  Tales  of  Life  and  Death.  2 vis.  in  1  (new?  5s.)     21     0...     3     0 

-— — -   Anecdotes  of  Upper  Ten  Thousand.    2  Vis.  ...new    30     0  ...     7     6 

Bertram,  F.  G.     The  Harvest  of  the  Sea       12    0  ...     5     0 

Besson,  Pere.     Dominican  Artist    ...  ...  >•,       9     0  ...     5    0 

Best,  L.  R.  D.   Now-a-days :  or.  Courts,  Courtier8,Churchmen,  &c. 

2  vols ,,,.=cc  (mw  6e.)    24    0  ...    4    6 

Bickmore,  A.  S.     Travels  in  the  East  Indian  Archipelago      new    18    0  ...     8     6 

Bidwell,  Chas.  T.     The  Isthmus  of  Panama     ...-     16     0  ...     4    0 

Binney,  Rev.  T.  Is  it  possible  to  make  the  best  of  Both  Worlds  ? 

half -calf  extra  4    0 

Bingham,  Hon.  Capt.     Journal  of  the  Siege  of  Paris        10    6  ,,.     2    6 

Birmingham  and  the  Midland  Hardware  District.    The  Re- 
sources,  Products,  and  Industrial  History.    Edited  by 
Samuel  Timmins.     700  pages,  8vo       ......  ...new     14    0  ...     5     6 

Bismarck,  Count.  The  Life  of  :  Private  and  Political.  With 
Descriptive  Notices  of  His  Ancestry.  By  J.  G.  L.  Hese- 
kiel.  Translated  by  K.  R.  H.  Mackenzie,  F.S.A.,  F.A.S.L. 

With  lOO  Illustrations,  Svo (neio  6s.)     16     0...     4     6 

. A  Political  Biography  by  L.  Bamberger 3     6  ...     2     0 

— — —  — — —     Artists  and  Arabs  ...    newly  half -hound  ...     8     6 

Blanc,  Louis.    Letters  on  England.     2nd  series  {new.,  4s.)     16    0  ,.,     2     6 

Blaikie,  J.     Among  the  Goths  and  Vandals 10    6  ...     2    0 

Blockade  of  Phalsburg.    Illustrated  by  Erckmann  Chatrian 

nenxly  half-hound  ...     2     6 

Blomfield.    Memoir  of .    Edited  by  A.  Blomfield  (weio  3s.)     12    0  ...     1     6 

Blundell,  Dr.     The  Human  Muscles  and  their  Story  from  the 

Earliest  Times        ...  new      9    0    ,,     3    0 
Bolingbroke,  Lord.   Life  of.    By  T.  Macknight  {new  4s.)     18    0  ...     3    0 

Bon  Gaultier's  Ballads.     By  Professor  Aytoun        half- calf  extra  ,,,  11     6 

Boner,  C.    Transylvania  ;    its  Products   and   its    People,   with 

Maps  and  Illustrations.     Svo    (new  4s.  6d.)     21     0  ...     3    0 

Memoirs  and  Letters  of.   Ed.  R.  M.  Kettle.  2  vis 21    0...     7     6 

Forest  Creatures.     Engravings    ,.,. 10     6  ...     3    0 

Book  of  Praise,  The.     Selected  and  Arranged  by  Sir  Roundell 

Palmer         half-calf  antique  ...     6     0 

*Book  of  Favourite  Modern  Ballads.  By  Sir  W.  Scott,  Campbell, 
Coleridge,  Wordsworth,  Longfellow,  Hood,  Lover,  Tenny- 
son, Barry  Cornwall,  and  others.  48  Illustrations  by 
Birket  Foster,  Harrison  Weir,  Harvey,  &c.,  Printed  in 

Colours  by  Evans,  small  4to,  bevelled  cloth  21     0  ...     7     0 

Book  of  Common  Prayer,  The,  with  the  New  Lectionary. 
Illustrated  with  Borders,  Initial  Letters,  Woodcuts,  and 
Notes  Explaining  the  Order  and  History  of  the  Offices. 
By  Rev.  Thomas  James  M.A.,  late  Honorary  Canon  of 
Peterborough.    8vo  new,  roan     18     0  ...  10    6 

"The  most  splendid  specimen  of  illustrated,  or  rather  illuminated,  books 

which  modern  art  has  produced.    The  Missals  of  the  former  days,  many  of  them  the 

abour  of  years  of  patient  toil  and  misdirected  devotion,  are  here  surpassed  by  the 

mechanical  apparatus  which  modern  science  has  made  applicable  to  the  purposes  of 

d'-corative  printing."— TZ/e  Times. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  3 

Original        Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

s.      d.             s.  d. 

Books  by  The  Druid : —            ...,0.,,.            neio,  each  5    0  ...     4  0 

Scott  and  Sebright,  Silk  and  Scarlet. 

Field  and  Fern,  North. 
Boutell,  C,  M. A.    Arms   and   Armour   in   Antiquity  and   the 

Middle  Ages.     Illustrated  new  7     6  ...     5  0 

Bowles,  T.  G.    The  Defence  of  Paris,  Narrated  as  it  was  Seen...  16    0  ...     6  0 

Bowring,  Sir  J.     A  Visit  to  the  Philippine  Islands            ...new  18    0  ...     4  6 

Boyd,  Mark.     Reminiscences  of  Fifty  Years    ...              10     6  ...     4  6 

Boy's  Own  Volume.    Profusely  Illustrated   ., ...  new  ...     3  6 

Braim,    T.    H.     New    Homes.     The   Rise,   Progress,   Present 
Position,  and  Future  Prospects  of  each  of  the  Australian 

Colonies  and  New  Zealand.    Illustrated ,,.  new  ...     3  6 

Bray,  Mrs.     Hartland  F«  rest     ....;.o.             4     6  ...     3  0 

Bremer,  F.     Life  and  Letters  half-calf  .,.     5  0 

Brevia.     By  the  Author  of  "  Friends  in  Council "              6    0  ...     2  G 

Bronte,  Charlotte.     The  Life  of                                half -calf  extra  ...     4  6 

Brooke,  Rev.  S.  A.     Freedom  in  the  Church  of  England  5     6  ...     2  6 

Brown,   Captain  T.,   F.L.S.       Popular   Natural    History   and 

Characteristics  of  Animals  (new  2s.  6 d.)  3     6  ...     2  0 
Illustrated   Anecdotes   of   Birds, 

Fishes  and  Insects,  &c.  (new  2s.  6d.)  3     6  ...     2  0 
Habits   and   Characteristics   of 

Animals  and  Birds  (new  2s.  6d.)  3     6  „•     2  0 


-■•  —  ■-  Rev.  W.     The  History  of  the  Christian  Missions  of  the 

16th,  17th,  18th  and  19th  Centuries.     3  vols,    new  36    0  ...  10  0 

Robert  E.     The  Book  of  the  Landed  Estate               new  21     0  ...  10  6 

J.  B.     First  Principles  of  Ecclesiastical  Truth      10     6  ...  6  0 

Brodie's,  G.    Constitutional   History   of   the   British   Empire. 

3  vols,    new  36    0  ...  12  6 
Brougham,  Lord.     The  Life  and  Times  of.    Written  by  Him- 
self.    Vols.  1,  2,  &  8  each  16    0  ...  12  0 
Browning,  Robert.    The  Ring  and  the  Book,  vol.  1           .........  7    6  ...  4  0 

Browning.     Prince  Hohenstiel-Schwangau,  Saviour  of  Society  5    0  ...  3  0 

Brnce,  Mrs.  H.    Scripture  Sonnets.     12mo   (new  1b.)  3    6  ...  0  6 

Brunei,  J.  K.     The  Life  of.     By  Isambard  Brunei,  B.C.L 21     0  ...  10  6 

Bubbles  from  the  Brunnen  of  Nassau.     By  Sir  F.  B.  Head...  new  7     6  ...  2  6 

Buchanan,  Robert.     Napoleon  Fallen.     A  Lyrical  Drama    3     6  ...  2  6 

— — — — —    Land  of  Lome.    2  vols 21    0  ...  4  0 

— Book  of  Orm  :  a  Prelude  to  the  Epic 6    0,,.  3  0 

Buckle's  History  of  Civilisation.     3  vols.,  cr.  8vo  half-calf  extra  ...  21  0 

Buckland,  Frank  F.     Fish  Hatching             (neio,  3s.)  5    0  ...  2  6 

Bulwer,  Sir  H.  Lytton.     Historical  Characters.     2  vols,  hlf.-clf.  ...  9  0 

"                      "  '    ■■ ^ —      newly  hound-calf  ...  12  0 

Bunsen,  Baron.  Memoir  of .  2  vols.  Best  Ed.  neivly  half-hnd.  calf  ...  15  6 

E.  de.    The  Keys  of  Saint  Peter    newly  half-hound  calf  ..,  9  6 

Bunyan,  John.     The  Pilgrim's  Progress.   With  300  Engravings  ...  1  0 
*Bunyan's  Pilgrim's  Progress.     With  a  Memoir  of  the  Author. 
By  H.  W.  Dulcken.     100  Illus.  engraved  by  the  Brothers 

Dalziel,  small  4to,  bevelled  cloth  gilt 10    6  ...  3  6 

Burke,  Sir  B.     Peerage  and  Baronetage,  1868 ...  new  38    0  ...  16  0 

*Burns,  Robert.     Poems  and  Songs.     Illustrated.     4to     21     0  .i.  8  6 

Bushnell,  H.     Work  and  Play 3    6...  1  6 

Bush,  R.  J.     Reindeer  Dogs  and  Snow  Shoes       ...             12    0  ...  6  0 

*Burns,  R.     Complete  Works  of .     8vo          3    6  ...  2  6 

Burton,  Capt.  R.  F.  A  Mission  to  the  King  of  Dahomey.  2  vols.  25    0  ...  4  0 

" _^__.    Explorations  of  the  Highlands  of  Brazils. 

2  vols,  (n&w^  7s.  6 d.)  30    0  ...  5  6 

-Letters  from  the  Battlefields  of  Paraguay  (new  5b.)  15    0,,,  3  0 

Byron,  Lord.    Poetical  Works.     Plates,  royal  8vo    («^9tc,  8s.  6d.  ...  7  0 


4  W.  E,  SMITH  AND  SON  S  BEDUOBD  PBIOB  LIST  FOB  MAY. 

Original        Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

_  B.     d.  B.    d, 

Byron,  Lord.  Life,  Letters,  a»d  J  ournals.  By  T.  Moore.  Portraits. 

Koyal  8vo.  ...  nem  „•  8     6 

. ChildeHarold'sPilgrimage.Illns.  Edition  (new;  8a)  12    0...  6    0 

#            Poetical  Woiks.     8  vols.     Pocket  Edition ...  17     6 

* Poetical  Works  of.     Svo      3     6  ...  2     6 

Cairnes,  J.  E.    The   Slave  Power,  Its  Character,   Career   and 

Probable  Designs    ...             ...  (Kew  2s.  €d.)  10     6  ...  2    0 

Cambridge  Freshman,  The.    By  Martin  Legrand              6    0  ...  2    0 

Cameron,  C.    Stock  Feeder's  Manual,  The*     Chemistry  of  Food 

(new  2s.  6d.)  5    0  ...  2    0 

Camille.     By  the  Countess  de  Gasparin 6    0  ...  1     6 

Campaigner  at  Home,  A.     By  Shirley            (weto  Is.  6d.)  7     6  ...  1    0 

Campbell,  Sir  Neil.     Napoleon  at  Fontainebleau                 15    0  ...  3    € 

«.c«=».— —  Dr.  J.      Lives  of  the  British  Admirals   and   Naval 

History  of  Great  Britain  (new  2s.  6d.)  ...  2    0 

..„  ,»„ ., Ld.     Lives   of   the   Lord   Chancellors  of   England. 

10  vols.        half-calf  extra  ...  75    0 
Campbell's  Pleasures  of  Hope.    Hlustrated  Gift  Book      ...  new  ...  4    0 
Capper,  C.     The  Port  and  Trade  of  London.     Historical,  Statis- 
tical, Local  and  General.     8vo  (new  4s.)  15    0  ...  2    6 

— John.    The  Duke  of  Edinburgh  in  Ceylon 10     6  ...  4    0 

Carlyle,  Thomas.     Life  of   Frederick  II.    6  vols.  Svo.     Best 

Edition  new  120    0  ...  65    0 

■  „ — The   Histoiy   of  the   French    Revolution. 

3  vols,  in  1.     People's  Edition     half-calf  extra  ...  8     6 
Casquet  of  Lyric  Gems.  With  Symphonies  and  Accompaniments 

for  the  Pianoforte  ...  4 

CasselFs  Magazine.    New  Series,  Vol.  3        ..«,»<,c.,  5     6  ...  2 

Catullus,  V.     Poems  of,  in  English  verse,  with  Life       (new  3s.)  7     6  ...  2 

Cballice,  A.  E.    Memories  of  French  Palaces , 10     6...  5 

Chase,  The,  Turf  and  the  Road.     By  Nimrod.    New  Edition  ...  5     0...  3 
Chapman,  J.     Travels  in  the  Interior  of  South  Africa,  Hunting 

and  Trading.    2  vols.  30    0  ...  12 
Charles  the  Fifth.     History  of  the  Reign  of.     By  W.  Robert- 
son, D.D.    2  vols.         new  21    0  ...  10 
Chaucer's  England.  By  Matthew  Browne,  2  vols.               ...  new  24    0  .„  7 
Cnesney,  Col.  The  Russo  Turkish  Campaigns  of  1828  and  1829. 

With  Maps  (new,  4s.)  12    0  ...  2 
Christian  Lyrics,  chiefly  selected  from  Modern  Authors.  4to, 

Illustrated     handsomely  hound  cloth,  new  10     6  ,,,  5 

. —  Osborne's  Friends.  By  Mrs.  Davidson             ny.  hf.-hd,  ...  3 

Christmas  Numbers,  The,  of  All  the  Year  Round,  conducted  by 

Charles  Dickens        half -morocco,  marhle  edges  ,,,  7 

Chronicles  of  the  Schonberg  Cotta  Family              half- calf  extra  ...  7 

Chronicles  of  Budgepore,  The.     By  J.  Prichard.      2  vols 12    0...  6 

Clare,  John.    The  Life  of .    By  F.  Martin ...new  7    6...  2 

Clayton,  E.  C.    Queens  of  Song,  Being  Memoirs  of  Some  of  the 

Most  Celebrated  Female  Vocalists.     2  vols.     Portraits ...  32    0  ...  8 
Colchester,  Lord.    Diary  and  Correspondence.    Edited  by  his 

Son.    3  vols,    new  42    0  ...  10 

Coleridge's  Table  Talk                                                   half-morocco  ...  5 
Coilingwood,  C.     Rambles  of  a  Naturalist  on  the  Shores  of  the 

China  Seas  (new  7s.  6d.)  16    0  ,.,  6 
Colonial  Adventures  and  Experiences.    By  a  University  Man,,,  7     6  ...  3 
Combermere,    Viscount,    Field-Marshal.      Memoirs  and    Cor- 
respondence of.    2  vols.,  Svo            newly  half-hound  calf  ...  21 

Coming  R^ce,  The.     Best  Edition  ...          10     6  ...  5 

Companions  of  My  Solitude.     By  A.  Helps               half-morocco  ...  6 

Conway,  J.     Forays  among  Salmon  and  Deer           (new  2s.  6d.)  6    0  ...  2 


MISCELLANEOU?.  6 

Original        Second-hand 

Published  Price      Offered  at 

s.     d.  B.    d. 

"  Con  Amore  : "   or,  Critical  Chapters    upon  the  Writings  of 
Victor   Hugo,  Beranger,  Schiller,  Goethe,  and  Voltaire. 

By  Justin  MacCarthy      ,...,.,..  ...  new     12    0  ...     2     6 

*Conversations  on  War  and  General  Culture.  By  the  Author  of 

"Friends  in  Council"     (3s.  6d.)      6    0  ...     S     0 
Conybeare,  Rev.  W.  J.,  &  Rev.  J.  S.  Howson.    The  Life  and 
Epistles  of  St.  Paul        half-calf  extra,  marble  edges 

Cook,  Dutton.     Art  in  England.     Essays (new  ^s.) 

Corner,  (A,)  of  Kent ;  or,  Some  Account  of  the  parish  of  Ash- 
next-Sandwich.     Illustrated  by  J.  R.  Planche.    8vo,  new 

Cornhill,  The,  Magazme.     Odd  Vols.  ...  each 

Corvin,  Col.     A  Life  of  Adventure.     3  vols ,...,,.., 

Cotton,  G  E.  L.  Bishop  of  Calcutta.  Memoir  of.  By  Mrs.  Cotton 
Court  of  Mexico.     By  the  Countess  Paula  Kollonitz  new.  hf.-hd. 

Countess  Gisela.     Translated  from  the  German  ...  

Crabbe's,  Rev.  G.,  Life  and  Poetical  Works.  Plates.  Roy.  8vo.  ... 
. — — — « — .-_.— »,.^ — — >     new 

Craik's  Pursuit  of  Knowledge  Under  DiflScuIties   half-calf  extra 
Orawley,  Captain.    The  Billiard  Book.     With  54  Illustrative 

Diagrams,  and  28  Woodcuts.  8vo  new 
Creasy,  Sir  E.  S.  Fifteen  Decisive  Battles  hf.-cf.  ex.^  mar.  edges 
Crosland,  Mrs.  N.  Memorable  Women.  Story  of  their  Lives  new 

Cumming,  Dr.    The  Seventh  Vial  ...  ..,»..,.. 

' I.—    The  Millennial  Rest  .,..=.,.. 

__ —    J.  G.    The  Great  Stanley     ...  weio 

«„„ — ^_    The  Cities  of  the  Nations  Fell    ... 

Cunningham,  R.  0.     Notes  on  the  Natural  History  of  the  Strait 

of  Magellan 
Curling.    Some  Account  of  the  Ancient  Corps  of  Gentlemen-at- 

Arms  {new  2s.) 

"Daily  News."     War  Correspondence.    Vol.1    ...  

Dall,  W.  H.     Alaska  and  its  Resources.    Royal  8vo.  Dlustrated 

Dallas,  G.  M.    Letters  from  London  1855  to  1860.     2  vols 

Danvers,  The,  Papers.    By  C.  M.  Yonge        {riew  2s.) 

Darwin,  C.     The  Descent  of  man.     2  vols 

halj-calf  extra 


Dashwood,  J.  B.    The  Thames  to  the  Solent   ...  ne^w 

— ^ R.  L.     Cfaiploquorgan  ;    or,  Life  by  the  Camp  Fire 

Davis,  N.    Ruined  Cities  within  Numidian  and  Carthagenian 

Territories  (neio  5s.) 
Days  of  Knox,  The  ;  a  Tale  of  the  16th  Century  half-calf 

D'Azeglio,  M.  Recollections  of.  By  Count  Maffei  new.  hf-hd.  cf. 
De  Beauvoir,  Marquis.  Voyage  Bound  the  World.  Vols.  1  and  2 

,««. .— — — . -—^--^'  newly  half -hnd. 

De  Bonnecbose's  History  of  France,  brought  down  to  the  Revolu- 
tion of  1848.    2  vols,  in  1,  8vo,  cloth  (neM»,  7s.  6d.) 
De  Gasparin,  Countess.     By  the  Sea  Shore  {n&w  2s.  6d.) 

De  Pressense.  The  Church  and  the  French  Revolution  ...  ne'^ 
Devereux,  W.  C.  A  Cruise  in  the  Gorgon  newly  half-hound  calf 
Dickens,  Charles.  Pickwick  Papers.  Cr.  8vo   half -mor., mar. edges 

-  —    David  Copperfield.   Cr.  8vo  hf.-mor.^  mar.  ed. 

,,.  — „_-     The  Story  of  his  Life     

Dicey,  E.    The  Morning  Land  Travek  in  Egypt,  &c-    2  vis.  in  1 

{new  3s.  6d,) 

*Dilke,  Sir  C.  W.     Greater  Britain 

, .^ 2  vis.  hvonly.  half -hud.  calf 

Dixon,  W.  H,    New  America.    2  vols.  .........  half-calf 

The  Story  of  Lord  Bacon's  Life        {new  4s.  6d.) 


Her  Majesty's  Tower.    3  and  4 


)*fr«Ct»« 


•  «  t 

10 

6 

6 

0  ... 

2 

0 

15 

0  ... 

6 

0 

•  C  4 

3 

0 

31 

6  ••• 

3 

0 

18 

0  ... 

7 

6 

•  •  • 

4 

6 

7 

6  «.. 

2 

6 

8 

6  .., 

5 

0 

8 

6  ... 

6 

0 

•  •  • 

7 

0 

21 

0  ... 

9 

0 

►v« 

7 

6 

3 

6  ... 

2 

6 

6 

0  ... 

2 

0 

7 

6  ... 

3 

0 

7 

6  ,,, 

2 

6 

6 

0  ... 

3 

0 

•  •« 

5 

0 

•  ■  • 

1 

0 

7 

6  *•• 

3 

6 

30 

0  ... 

15 

0 

21 

0  ... 

4 

0 

4 

6  ... 

1 

6 

24 

0  ... 

15 

0 

•  •  • 

24 

0 

3 

6  ... 

1 

0 

10 

6  ... 

5 

0 

16 

0  ... 

3 

0 

•-•  • 

5 

0 

t  ■  t 

7 

6 

18 

0  ... 

8 

6 

•  •  • 

12 

6 

16 

0  ... 

6 

0 

6 

e  ... 

2 

0 

9 

0  ... 

5 

0 

•  »• 

6 

0 

••* 

6 

0 

•  •  • 

6 

0 

7 

6  ... 

4 

6 

16 

0  ... 

2 

0 

6 

0  ... 

4 

0 

•  •  • 

10 

6 

•  •• 

8 

6 

7 

6   r3. 

3 

0 

80 

0  ... 

10 

0 

W.   H.  SMITH  AND  BON'S  BEDUOED  PEIOB  LIST  FOB  MAY. 


Original       Second-hand 

Published  Price        Offered  at 

s.      d.  s.    d. 

Doctor  Syntax.    Three  Tours  of .    Coloured  Plates  new  ...    2    6 

Don  Carlos,  Infant  of  Spain.     Translated  from  the  German 

of  Schiller,  by  Thos.  S.  Egan,  M.A.  (new,  28. 6d.)  5 

Donnington  Castle :  a  Royaliet  Story  in  14  Staves.  By  Col.  Colomb  5 

Drifted  and  Sifted.     A  Domestic  Chronicle  of  the  17th  Century  9 

Du  Chaillu,  P.     My  Apingi  Kingdom.     Illustrated           6 

Duff,  M.  E.  Grant.     A  Political  Survey        7 

Dutt  Family  Album,  The         6 

Dutton,  A.    The  Streets  and  Lanes  of  a  City  3 

Eastwick,  E.  B.  Venezuela  ;  or,  Sketches  of  Life  in  S.  A.  Republic  16 

=«»-«„«.,-.»,«,-«=-»=--.=_ — (newly  half-hound  5s.)  new  16 

East  and  West.    Edited  by  the  Countess  Spencer              6 

Ecce  Homo  half- calf  antique 

Eden,  P.    The  Nile  without  a  Dragoman     7 

L.  S.     My  Holiday  in  Austria   (newly  half-hound  calf  4t8.)  10 

Edward,  M.  B.  A  Winter  with  the  S«rallows  newly  hlf. -hound  elf. 

•^ Through  Spain  to  Sahara  newly  half-hound 

Elam,  Charles.     A  Physician's  Problems       ,  9 

Ellicott,  Bishop.     The  Destiny  of  the  Creature      half- calf  extra 

Elliot,  Francs.     Pictures  of  Old  Rome 6 

Hon.  Hugh.  Life  of.  By  the  Countess  of  Minto  nly.-hd.  elf. 

■u-a..u.»M^  R.  H.     The  Experience  of  a  Planter  in  the  Jungles  of 

Mysore.     2  vols.  24    0 

Ellis,  Mrs.    The  Beautiful  in  Nature  and  Art  (new  3s.  6d.)  10    6 

■  W.     Madagascar  Revisited     ..o             ,^.......  (new,  bs.  6d)  16     0 

The  Martyr  Church 7     6 

Emerson,  R.  W.     Society  and  Solitude.     12  Chapters        2     0 

Enterprising,  The,  Impresario.  The  Experiences  of  a  Theatrical 

Manager.     By  Walter  Maynard         new  14     0 

Episodes  in  an  Obscure  Life.     3  vols.           31     6 

Episodes  of  Fiction ;  or,  Choice  Stories  from  the  Great  Novelists. 

Illustrated,  4to,  Elegantly  bound  new  10     6 
Erskine,  Lord.     Speeches  Delivered  at  the  Bar.    2  vols.  8vo  new 

Evans,  H.L.  Last  Winter  in  Algeria  (w(9if/y7?aZ/'-&ownc?caZ/'5s.6d.)  10     6 
Evelyn,  John.   The  Diary  and  Correspondence  of.    1641,1705-6. 

By  W.  Bray    new  6    0 
cloth  antique 


0 

2 

0 

0 

2 

6 

0  . 

2 

6 

0 

2 

6 

6 

4 

0 

0  . 

3 

0 

6 

1 

6 

0 

2 

6 

0 

4 

0 

0 

1 

0 

7 

6 

6 

5 

0 

6 

2 

0 

7 

6 

4 

6 

0 

4 

0 

7 

0 

0 

4 

0 

e.o          5  6 

...  12  0 

...    2  6 

...    4  0 

...    4  6 

...     1  3 

...     2  6 

3  6 

...     6  0 

...  16  0 

...    3  0 


half-calf  extra,  marhle  edges 

...  new 

(new  3s.  6d.) 


Espin,  Rev.  T.  E.     Critical  Essays 

Essays  in  Defence  of  Women 

Esquires,  A.    English  Seamen  and  Divers 
*Every-Day  Book  of  Modern  Literature.     Compiled  by  G.  H. 

Town  send 
hf.-cf.  ex.,  mar.  edges 


7 

7 

10 


6 
6 
6 


4 
5 
8 
2 
2 
1 


12    0 


••«•«•«* 


5 

10 

12 

15 

6 


0 
6 
0 
0 
0 


EwiDg,  J.  H.    The  Brownies,  and  Other  Tales 

Eyre,  M.    Over  the  Pyrenees  into  Spain  ,» ,,  (neiv,  4s.  6d.) 

Lady's  Walks  in  the  South  of  France  ...  

Fair  France.     By  the  Author  of  "John  Halifax"  

Fair  Havard  :  a  Story  of  American  College  Life  

Fairy  Book.     By  Miss  Muloch.     Rendered  anew.     Illustrated 

half-calf  extra 
Faraday,  M.,  as  a  Discoverer.  By  J.  Tyndall  hf.-cf.  ex.,  mar.  edges 
Farrar,  Rev.  F.  W.     Eric  :  or.  Little  by  Little  half-morocco 

— — — —    St.  Winifred's  :  or,  World  of  School  hf.-mo. 

«———=———-——     Julian  Home  half-morocco 

"»=— — —  A.  S.      A  Critical  History  of  Free  Thought.     Bampton 

Lectures,  1852     16    0 

half-  calf  extra 

"Stone  Edge"      : G     0 


Felix  Holt 

Fernyhurst  Court.     By  the  Author  of 


6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 


6  0 
9  6 
3  0 
2  6 
2  6 
2  6 
2  6 

7  6 

6  0 

7  0 

8  6 
7  0 

7  6 

6  0 

2  6 


MISCBLLANEOUF.  7 

Original       Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

s.      d.  s.  d. 

Feudal  Ccastles  of  France,  8vG,  cloth               14     0  ...  4  6 

Ffoulks,  Rev.  E.  S.     Difficulties  of  the  Day  and  How  to  meet 

them.    Sermons               3     6  ...  2  6 

Figuier.  The  World  befoxo  the  Deluge.  From  the  French. 
Carefully  Edited  by  H.  W.  Bristow,  F.R.S.,  of  the  Geo- 
logical Survey.     Demy  8vo.     233  Plates  ...  neio  ...  12  0 

-™ —    The  Vegetable  World.    From  the  French.    Edited  by 

C.  0.  G.  Napier,  F.G.S.     Demy  870,  with  471  Plates    neio  ...  12  0 

■ ' — —    "" -"^ — -~ -—  ...  8  6 

The   Ocean  World.     A  Descriptive  History    of   the 

Sea  and  its  Inhabitants.     From  the  French.     Edited  by 

C.  0.  G.  Napier,  F.G.S.     Demy  8vo.     427  Plates          new  ...  12  0 

— — — — . ..^ «»— half -calf  ...  8  6 

■— —    Mammalia.    Their  Various  Orders  and  Habits.     267 

Illustrations  {new  12s.)  ...  9  0 

^~ —    The  Insect  World.    A  Popular  Account  of  the  Orders 

of  Insects.     From  the  French.     Edited  by  E.  W.  Jansen, 

Lib.  E.S.     Demy  8vo.     576  Plates      {new  12s.)  ...  9  0 

Birds  and  Reptiles.     307  Plates    (neio  13s.  6d.)  ...  10  6 

Fitzgerald,  P.     Principles  of  Comedy  and  Dramatic  Effect 

{new,  4s.)  12    0  ...  2  6 

M.  S.     The  Kings  of  Europe,  Past  and  Present    new  10     6  ...  4  0 

Fishing  Gossip.     Edited  by  H.  C.  Pennel      ...neov  6     0  ...  3  0 

Five  Years  within  the  Golden  Gate.  By  Isabelle  Saxon    ...  new  9     0  ...  3  0 
Five  Old  Friends  and  a  Young  Prince.    By  the  Author  of  "The 

^iory  otWiizdihath.''''  newly  half -lound  ...  6  0 
Five  Weeks  in  a  Balloon.     From  the  French  of  Jules  Verne. 

With  64  Illustrations    new  7     6  ...  3  0 

Flack,  Captain.     The  Hunter's  Experiences              (new  Is.  6d.)  10     6  ...  1  0 

Flammarion,  C.     Marvels  of  the  Heavens               half -calf  extra  ...  5  6 

— ™_-^-.^ — ..„™» .— -: __  5  0 ...  3  6 

Forbes,  A.     My  Experiences  of  the   War  between  France  and 

Germany.    2  vols.  30     0  ...  10  0 

Forest  Sketches.  Deer  Stalking  and  other  Sports  50  Years  Ago  ...  15     0  ...  2  0 

Forman,  H.  Buxton.     Our  Living  Poets        12     0  ...  6  0 

Forsyth,  Capt.  J.     The  Highlands  of  Central  India          18     0  ...  9  0 

—  -  W.     The  Novels  and  Novelists  of  the  18th  Century  ...  10    6  ...  5  0 

Fortune,  R.    Yedo  and  Peking    (new  5s.  6d.)  16    0  ,„  4  0 

-—^Two  Visits  to  the  Tea  Countries  of  China.  2  vis.  new  18    0  ,„  Q,  6 

Francis,  Sir  Philip.     Memoirs  and  Correspondence  of.     Edited 

by  Herman  Merivale.    2  vols.  8vo     {new,  10s.)  30     0  ...  7  0 

the  First.     By  A.  B.  Cochrane,  M.P.     2  vols 21     Q  .♦.  5  0 

Francis  of  Assisi.     By  Mrs.  Oliphant           4     6  ...  3  0 

Eraser's  Magazine.     Odd  Vols.                                 half-calf,  each  ...  3  0 

Frederick  the  Great.    By  T.  Carlyle.    Vols.  2,  3,  &  4        ...  each  '      ...  6  0 

Freeman,  E.  A.    Old  English  History  for  Children  AaZ/'-ca?/e:c;m  ...  8  0 

r^ Historical  Essays 10     6  ..  7  6 

Free  Thoughts.    By  a  Manchester  Man.    2  vols,  in  1            netu  12    0  ...  3  6 

French  Women  of  Letters.     By  Julia  Kavanagh.    2  vols,     new  21     0  ...  5  0 

From  Sedan  to  Saarbruck.     By  an  Officer  of  Royal  Artillery  ..,  7     0  ...  1  6 

Froude,  J.  A.     History  of  England,  vols.  11  and  12,  8vo  ..., 36    0  ...  10  6 

'■-''^^-^^"-'•■— — newly  hound  cloth  36    0  „.  12  6 

The  History  of  England  from  the  Fall  of  Wolsey 

to  the  Defeat  of  the  Spanish  Armada.     12  vols.,  cr.  8vo 

half-calf  extra  ...105  0 

——————— — — >^ — «— .  cr.  8vo,  cZo^A,  nei«  ...  66  0 

— —_ Library  Edition.     \2yo\b.^yo  half -calf  extra  ...210  0 

Garrick,  David.     Life  of.    2  vols.  ...            {new,  12s.  6d.)  30    0  ...  7  6 

Gheel,  The  City  of  the  Simple      .".....            (weu?  3s.  6d.)  6    0  ...  2  6 


8  W.  H.  SMITH  AND  SON'S  EEDUOED  PEIOE   LIST  FOB  MAY. 

Original       Second-hand 
Published  Price       Offered  afc 

B«       da            s>  d« 
*Gem8  fi-om  Painters  and  Poets.  Embellished  with  8  Fac-similes 

of  Water  Colour  Drawings   and  other  Illustrations  by 
Cattermole,     Sidney    Cooper,    Edward    Duncan,    Henry 

Warren,  &c.,&c.,4to,  gilt 10     6...     3  6 

George  III,  Memoirs  of  the  Life  and  Reign  of.     By  J.  H.  Jesse. 

3  vols.  870     v£w  42    0  ...  15  0 

— — — newly  half -hound  calf  ...  21  0 

■—the  Third;  Correspondence  of,  1768  to  1783,  with  Lord 

North.     Edited  by  W.  B.  Donne.    2  vols.,  8 vo    (wei*;  9s.)  32     0...     5  & 

Giant,  The.     Edited  by  the  Author  of  "Amy  Herbert "    5     0  .»,     2  6 

Gibbon,  E.    The  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire. 

3  vols.     Cr.  8vo     new  18     0  ...  12  0 

Gibson,  C.  B.    Life  among  the  Convicts.    2  vols.              ...new  ^21    0  ...     4  6 

Gillmore,  Parker.     A  Hunter's  Adventures  in  the  Great  West,..  15     0  ...     3  & 

--».™_ —     All  Round  the  World      ......... 7     6  ...     4  6 

Ginx's  Baby  :  His  Birth,  and  other  Misfortunes.     Best  Edition  5     0  ...     2  6 

Giusti  Giuseppe  and  His  Times.     By  S.  Horner       (new  2s.  6d.)  7     6  ...     1  6 

Gladstone,  George-.    Thij  Chaplain  in  the  Field  of  War     7     6  ...     3  0 

W.  E.     "EcceSomo"...             ,..  nanv  5     0  ...     3  0 

Glaisher's  Travels  in  the  Air.     Illustrated.     Imperial  8 vo    ......  25    0  ,,,  17  6 

-"■-"■ — "-"- half -calf  extra^  marble  edges  ...  22  0 

Goodman,  M.  Sisterhoods  in  the  Church  of  England,  with  notices 

of  some  Charitable  Sisterhoods  in  the  Romish  Church  we^«  6     0...     2  6 

Good  Words.     Vols.  1870-1      ...  each  ...     3  6 

Gould,  S.  B.    Curious  Myths  of  the  Middle  Ages                ...new  6     0  ...     3  6 
Goblet,  H.  F.     A  Theory  of  Sight :   or,  How  we  See  and  What 

we  See        new  10    0  ...     3  6 
Gosse,  P.  H.     A  Year  at  the  Shore.     Illusti*ated  with  Coloured 

Engravings  half- calf  extra  ...   10  6 
Gouger,  H.     Personal  Nai'rative  of  Two  Years'  Imprisonment 

in  Burmah.    With  illustrations   new  12     0  .,,     2  B 
Graham,  J.  M.     An  Historical  View  of  Literature  and  Art  in 

Great  Britain  14     0  ...     9  0 

Lady  Beatrix.     Journal  of.              7     6  ...     3  0 

Grant,  Ret.  A.  H.     Church  Seasons  Historically  and  Practically 

Illustrated    cloth,  red  edges,  neiv  7     6   ...     4  0 

— J.    The  Newspaper  Press.     2  vols 30    0  ...  19  6 

Great  Invasion  of  1813-14.     By  M.  M.  Erckmann-Chatrian ...     1  0 

Grey,  Earl.    Reform  Act,  1832.   The  Correspondence  of  the  late 
Earl  Grey  with  His  Majesty  King  William  the  Fourth 

and  with  Sir  H.  Taylor.  2  vols.,  8vo                (new?,  7s.  6 d.)  30    0...     4  6 
— — —  Hon.    Mrs.    William.     Journal   of   a    Visit    to  Egypt, 

Constantinople,  the  Crimea,  &c.  8    6  ...     1  6 

Johp,  of  Dilstone.    A  Memoir  of 7    6  ...     4  0 

Griffith,  Thomas.     Fundamentals  :  or.  Bases  of  Belief       .........  10     6...     5  6 

Grote's  History  of  Greece.     Cabinet  Edition.    12  vols.      ...  new  ...  66  0 

--=— ^~" —     - — ' — — half-calf  extra  ...  92  0 

Guesses  at  Truth.     By  two  Brothers    half-morocco,  marble  edges  ,..     7  0 

Guinnard,  A.    Three  Years' Slavery  among  the  Patagonians  ...  10     6...     5  0 

''Guizot,  M.     Saint  Louis  and  Calvin                  4     6  ...     3  0 

_ _ .«««.     Chri^itianity  viewed   in   relation   to   the   Present 

State  of  Society  and  Opinion  9     0  ...     5  G 

Gun,  Rod,  and  Saddle.    By  Ubique                 ....,,„     {new  Sb.  &d.)  7    6...     2  0 
Hallowed  Spots  of  Ancient  London.      By  Eliza  Meteyard. 

Profusely  Illustrated,  4to,  elegantly  bound  cloth,  new  21     0  ...     7  6 

Halliday,  A.     Sunny-Side  Papers    ...            (new  28.^d.)  7    6  ...     16 

Hall,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  S.  C.    A  Week  at  Killarney.   Illustrated  new  ...     6  0 

•^ S.  C,     A  Book  of  Memories  of  Great  Men  and  Women  of 

the  Age  21     0  ...  10  6 


k 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Original        Second-hand 
Published  Prj  ce       Offered  at 

,  8.  d.  s,  d. 

Hamley,  "W.     A  New  Sea  and  an  Old  Land 10  6  ...  5  0 

Hamilton,  Alexander.     The  Life  and  Times  of.     Aide  de  Camp, 

Secretary,  and  Minister  of  General  Washington  (new  28.)  10  6  ...  1  0 

.„-.    C     Sketches  of  Life  and  Sport  in  Africa. (ne2«,  38.6d.)  9  0  ...  2  6 

— — Dr.  James.     Life  of .     By  William  Arnot           7  6  ...  4  6 

Hampden,  R.  D.     Bishop  of  Hereford.     Some  Memorials  of.  ...  12  0  ...  7  0 

Hand  ley  Cross.    By  the  Author  of  "Ask  Mamma"  ^aZ/-caZ/€a;ira                 ...  18  6 

Hannah,  J.     Bampton  Lectures  1863,  Holy  Scripture       ........  10  S  ...  6  0 

Hardy,  Captain  C.  Forest  Life  in  Acadie,  Sketches  of  Sport  and 

Natural  History  in  Canada.    Hlustrated        ...  new  18  0  ...  5  0 


newly  half -bound  ...  5  g 

Hare,  Augustus  J.  C.     Walks  in  Rome.     2  vols.                 21     0  ...  10  0 

Harness,  Rev.  W.     The  Literary  Life  of       ,  15     0  ...  8  6 

Harry  Coverdale.     Illustrated  8vo  ...             ,, kalf -calf  extra  ...  9  6 

*Harry's  Ladder  to  Learning 5     0  ...  2  6 

Vacations.     By  W.  C.  Richards       ...new  3     6  ...  2  0 

Hatton.     Pippins  and  Cheese  (neta  Is.  Gd.)  5     0  ,„  13 

Harvey,  Mrs.     Turkish  Harems  and  Circassian  Homes     15     0  ..,  8  6 

Hawker,  U.  S.     Footprints  of  Former  Men  in  Far  Cornwall    ...  5     0  .,,  3  0 

Hawthorne,  N.     Our  Old  Home                      ...  new  5     0  ...  3  6 

Hay,  Cecil.     The  Club  and  the  Drawing-Room.     2  vols 21     0  ...  2  € 

2  vols,  in  1       (new,  Is.)  21     0...  2  0 

Head,  Sir  F.  B.      The  Royal  Engineer                 -.,„,.„            new  12     0  ...  6  0 

He  Knew  He  was  Right.   A.  TroUope.  2  vols,  inl  nly,  hlf-hd.  cf.  ,,,  7  6 
Helping  (The)  Hand.     A  Gruide  to  the  New  Testament.    By  A. 

Alexander  3     6  „,  2  0 

Henderson,  R.   Soldier  of  Three  Queens  :  A  Narrative.  2  vis,  wcio  21     0  ...  4  0 

Herbert,  Lady.     Cradle  Lands.    Illustrated,  imperial  8vo  ...  «eio  21     0  ...  8*6 

Herschell's  Treatise  on  Astronomy...             half -calf  extra  .„  5  0 

Hessey,  J.  A.     Sunday  :  Its  Origin,  &c.,  cr.  8vo             (new  6s.)  9     0  ...  5  0 

Hill  O'Dell,  F.     English  Monasticism:  its  Rise  and  Influence  16     0  ,,,  7  6 

S.  S.     Travels  in  Egypt  and  Syria                             half -calf  ...  Q  q 

Hingston,  E.  P.    The  Genial  Showman,  2  vols.  ...              .,..,...  7     6  ...  5  0 

Hodder,  George.     Memories  of  My  Time         .»....,  (ne^u>  3s.  6d.)  15    0...  2  6 
Holbein,  Hans.     Some  Account  of  his  Life  and  Works.     By 

R.  N.  Womum.     Imp  8vo  rienv  31     6  „.  16  0 

Hole,  S.  R.    A  Book  about  Roses,  How  to  Grow  and  Show  them  7     6  ...  5  6 

Hollingshead.  J.     To-Day  Essays  and  Miscellanies.  2  vols.  neu>  21     0  ...  4  6 

— -- — -1— — . _— .^ -2  vols  in  1  ?iei«  ...  3  6 

Hoffman's  Discourses:  The  Prophecies  of  Our  Lord,  &c.  ...  Tiew  7     6  ...  3  6 

Hope,  A.  R.     My  Schoolboy  Friends                    newly  half-bound  ...  5  Q 

— — Stories  of  French  School  Life. ,.              .,...,...  5     0  ...  2  0 

Hopley  under  Egyptian  Palms    ,...,.                  ,,..  =  ,         (new  Sb.}  8     0...  2  0 
Houdin,  Robert :  Ambassador,  Author,  and  Conjuror.     Written 

by  Himself...  new  '             ...  2  0 

Household  Treasury  of  English  Song.  Illus. ^aZ/'-wor.,  mar.  erZ^es  ...6  0 
How  Crops  Grow :  a  Treatise  on  the  Chemical  Composition, 

Structure   and   Life   of  the  Plant.     With  Illustrations. 

By  Samuel  W.  Johnson,  M.A. ...  new  9    0  ...  3  6 

Howell,  W.  D.     Suburban  Sketches               7     6  ...  4  0 

Hewitt's  Northern  Heights                             newly  half-bound  calf  ...  10  6 

Hugessen,  E.  H.  K.    Moonshine  Fairy  Stories    ... 5     0  ...  3  0 

Hullah,  J.     The  Song  Book                   half-morocco^  marble  edges  „,  5  6 
Hume  and  Smollett's  History  of  England,  with  a  Continuation 

by  the  Rev.  T.  S.  Hughes.     15  vols.,  cloth             new  ,,.  56  0 

The  Continuation.     7  vols....  new  ...  25  0 

Hunt,  Leigh.     The  Correspondence  of.    Edited  by  His  Eldest 

Son.    2  vols,  ne^w  21    0  ...  6  0 

A  Day  by  the  Fire  ...            6     6  ...  4  0 


10  W.  H.  SMITH  AND  BON'S  BHDUOED  PBIOB  LIST  FOR  MAY.  J 

Original  Second-hand 

Published  Price        Offered  aS 

S,  ,  d,  s.  d. 

HutcliiDSon,  A.  H.     Try  Lapland  ;  a  Fresh  Field  for  Summer 

Tourists  6  0  ...  2  0 

Ice:  a  Southern  Night's  Dream   3  6  ...  2  0 

Illustrious  Women ,,,            (weio2s.  6d.)  3  6  ...  2  0 

Indian  Government.     Memorials  of.     Selected  from  the  papers 

of  Henry  St.  George  Tucker.   Edited  by  J.  W.  Kaye  new  ...  6  0 

Inside  Paris  During  the  Siege    7  6  ...  4  6 

Jackdaw  of  Kheims.    With  Coloured  Illustrations.     4to.     new  7  6  ...  5  0 

Jacob  and  Joseph.     By  Elihu  Burritt,     Illustrated  (new  2s.  6d,)  3  6  ...  2  0 

Bev.  G.  A.  The  Ecclesiastical  Polity  of  theNew  Testament  16  0  ...  8  0 

James  Meetwell ;  or,  Life  of  a  Scotti&h  Merchant.     2  vols 21  0  ...  3  6 

Jameson,  Mrs.     Characteristics  of  Women              half- calf  extra  .««  6  0 

Jane  Eyre.     By  Charlotte  Bronte    ...             half- calf  extra  »..  4  0 

Janet  Radway :  a  Girl's  Romance ,,,  new  6  0  ...  2  6 

Jasmine,  Leigh.     By  C.  C.  Fraser  Tytler      .,=.=,...  6  0  ...  2  0 

JeafEreson,  J.  C.    A  Book  about  the  Clergy,    2  vols.        30  0  ...  6  0 

__«.    The  Annals  of  Oxford.    2  vols,              30  0  ...  4  0 

— • A  Book  about  Lawyers.     2  vols.           24  0  ...  10  0 

Jeanne,  D'Arc.  The  Life  and  Death  of.  By  Harriet  Parr. 

2  vols,  in  1   (new  4s.  6d.)  16  0  ...  2  0 

Jerrold,  B.     At  Home  in  Paris  at  Peace  and  at  War.    2  vols..,.  16  0  ...  4  0 

Jevons,  W.  S.     The  Theory  of  Political  Economy             9  0  ...  5  G 

Jesse,  G.R.  History  of  the  British  Dog.  2  volg.,  Illus.        ...new  32  0  ...  10  6 

London  :  Its  Celebrated  Characters  and  Remarkable 

Places.     3  vols.                netv  31  6  ...  15  0 
John   Gilpin.     The  Diverting  History  of.     Illustrated  by 

H.  Fitzcook.    4to  new  10  6  ...  5  0 

J(?hn  Halifax       half -calf  extra  ,,,  6  6 

John  Jerningham's  Journal       , „  3  6  ...  1  6 

Johnson,  Samuel.     Lives  of  the  English  Poets    ...             ...  new  ...  3  6 

'  By  P.  Cunningham.  3  vols., 

8vo.     Murray     (new  10s.)  22  6  ...  8  6 
Johnson,  H.  E.  E.     A  Long  Vacation  in  the  Argentine  Alps  ;  or 

Where  to  Settle  in  the  River  Plate  States.       (new  4s.)  7  6  ...  2  6 

Julian  Fane  :  a  Memoir.     By  Robert  Lytton  .........  10  6  ...  5  0 

Kean,  Edmund.    Life  of.  By  F.  W.  Hawkins.  2  vols.      ...  neiv  30  0  ...  6  0 

*Keary,  A.  &  E.     The  Heroes  of  Asgard       4  6...  2  0 

— The  Nations  Around   ...            4  6  ..,  3  0 

Keats's  Eve  of  St.  Agnes.     Illustrated           ...new  ...  3  6 

— —  The  Life  and  Letters  of.  By  Lord  Houghton  new  5  0  .,.  3  6 

Kebbel,  T.  E.,  M.A.    English  Statesmen  since  the  Peace  of  1815 

cloth  gilt,  extra  new  5  0  ,.,  3  0 
Kembles,  The.     An  Account  of  the  Kemble  Family.     By  Percy 

Fitzgerald.     2  vols.  30  0  ...  8  G 

Kennan,  G.     Tent  Life  in  Siberia  ...            6  0  ...  2  6 

Kennedy,  General  Sir  J.  S.  Notes  on  the  Battle  of  Waterloo 7  6  ...  2  0 

■                                    — '                      — — — —        '"         new  7  6  ,„  3  6 

■— — B.  H.     Hymnologia  Christiana     ...new  7  6  ...  2  6 

P.     Legendary  Fictions  of  the  Irish  Celts        7  6  ...  2  6 


Kingsley,Can on.  Limits  of  Exact  Science  applied  to  History  new?  ...     1  0 

Westward  Ho...             ......    half -calf  extra  ...     7  0 

— Henry.    The  Boy  in  Grey               3     6  ...     2  0 

Kingston,  W.  H.  G.    On  the  Banks  of  the  Amazon           6    0  ...     3  6 

Knight,  Charles.    The  Popular  History  of  England.    8  vols. 

half-calf  extra,  marhle  edges  ,,,130  0 

Kugler,  F.  Handbook  of  Painting,  German,  &c.  By  Waagen. 
With  62  full-page  Illustrations  after  the  most  eminent 

Masters.    2  vols,  in  1      ...  new  24    0  ...  12  0 

II         ■               — '»■ 2  vols,  new  24    0  ...  14  0 


Jecoi 

id-hand 

Offered  at 

8. 

d. 

•  «« 

3 

8 

•  •• 

1 

6 

•  «• 

2 

6 

•  •• 

4 

0 

•  «  • 

1 

6 

•  •■ 

1 

0 

•  •  f 

6 

0 

•  • » 

4 

0 

•  f « 

6 

6 

•  •• 

5 

0 

•  «  c 

7 

0 

MISOELLANEOUP.  11 

Original 
Published  Price 
s.     d. 

Kirkug,  W.    Miscellaneous  Essays.     2iid  Series  new     10     6 

La  Gorte.     Letters  from  Spaiu,  1863  to  1866 (new  Ss.)     14    0 

Lady  of  Provence.     By  A.  L.  O,  E. ...  3     G 

Landor,  W.  S.     Imaginary  Conversations  of  Greeks  and  Romans 

new    10    6 

Langford  Prison  Books  and  their  Authors        ...<,..  8    0 

Larkins,  W.  G.    A  Handbook  of  English  Literature  (new,  Is.  6d.) 

Lawlor,  D.  S.     Pilgrimages  in  the  Pyrenees  and  Landes  15     0 

Lee,  Holme.     In  the  Silver  Age.  Essays.    2  vols.         (new,  5s.)     12     0 

Les  Miserables.     By  Victor  Hugo ...    half-calf  exira 

Lemon,  Mark.     Fairy  Tales      7     6 

Leonowens,  A.  H.     Eaglish  Governess  at  the  Siamese  Court  ...     12    0 
Letters   of   Distinguished   Musicians :     Gluck,    Haydn,   Bach, 

Weber,  Mendelssohn.    Translated  by  Lady  Wallace 14    0  ...     3    0 

Letters  on  International  Relations.    By  the  Correspondent  of 

the  "Times."    2  vols „..e...  36    0  ...     6    0 

Lswin,  W.     Her  Majesty's  Mail:  an  Historical  and  Descriptive 

Account  of  the  British  Post  Office        (netu  28.)      7    6  ...     1    0 

Lewis,  Sir  G.  C.     Letters  of.     To  Various  Friends  14    0  ...     6     0 

Liber  Librorum,  Its  Structure,  Limitations  and  Purpose      new      7     6  ...     3     6 
Liddell,  H.  0.     History  of  Rome  from  the  Earliest  Time.  2  vols. 

8vo  (nexu  12s.)     28    0  ...  10    0 
Life,  The,  of  Man,  Symbolized  by  the  Months  of  the  Year,  in 
a  Series  of  Illustrations.     By  J.  Leighton,  F.S.A.     With 
Passages    from    y\ncient    and    Modern    Authors.      By 

R.  Pigot.     Royal  4to,  cloth,  elegant ...  new    42     0  ...  21     0 

Lightfoot,  J.  B.     On  a  Fresh  Revision    of  the    English  New- 
Testament      6     0 
Lindsay,  Lord.     (Ecumenicity  and  the  Church  of  England  ......       6     0 

Lindsays,  Lives  of.     By  Lord  Lindsay.     3  vols.     8vo      42     0 

Lingard's  History  of  England.     10  vols,  cloth  ne'w    36     0 

Lingcroft's  Topographical  Account  of  Bosmere,  Havant,  and 

H^^yling,     Illustrated,  Imp.  8vo  new 

♦Little  Friends  in  the  Village .........  3     6 

Liverpool,  Lord.     Life  of.     By  C.  D.  Yonge   3  vols.  8vo  ...  new     42     0 
Livingstone,  Dr.  The  Life  and  Adventures  of.  lUus.  n£W      3     6 

Missionary  Travels  in  Africa     half-calf  extra 

Lloyd,  L.     Peasant  Life  in  Sweden (weaw,  48.  6d.)     18    0 

Loch,  H.  B.     Occurrences  during  Lord  Elgin's  Second  Embassy 

to  China       9    0  ...     1     6 
Lodge,  E.     Peerage   and    Baronetage  of   the  British  Empire, 

with  the  Arms  of  the  Peers,  1868  new    31     6  ...  10    6 
Loneliness   and  Leisure.       By  the  Author   of   "  Visiting   my 

Relations"     (neio  33.  6d.)       7     6 
Londonderry  (Marq.)     Story  of  the  Peninsular  War         ...  new      5    0 

London  Society.     Odd  Vols ...  newly  half-hound 

Longfellow,  H.  W.     The  Divine  Tragedy     ? 5     0 

LoEt   Among   the  Affghans :    being   the  Adventures  of    John 

Campbell  amongst  the  Wild  Tribes  of  Central  Asia   new      5     0 
Loudon,  Mrs.     The  Lady's  Country  Companion  newly  hf-hd.  calf. 
Louise  de  France,  Madame,  The  Life  of.  Daughter  of  Louis  15th 

(newly  half-bound  4s.^       6     0 
Lover's  (The)  Dictionary.     A  Poetical  Treasury.     With  nearly 

10,000  Selections  from  the  Poets  (new,  3s.  6d.)       7     6 
Lowell,  J.  R.     Under  the  Willows  and  other  Poems  ...  new      8     0 

My  Study  Windows.     Crown  8vo  9     0 

Lubbock,  Sir  John.     The  Origin  of  Civilization  and  the  Primi- 
tive Condition  of  Man     16     0 
Ludlow,  J.  M.    Popular  Epics  of  the  Middle  Ages.    2  vole,  new    14    0 


3 

0 

4 

0 

12 

6 

24 

0 

10 

6 

1 

6 

12 

6 

2 

6 

8 

6 

3 

6 

2 

6 

2 

0 

5 

0 

2 

G 

3 

0 

5 

0 

2 

6 

3 

0 

2 

6 

2 

6 

10 

6 

2 

6 

12  W.  H.  SMITH  AND  BON'S  BBDUOED  PBIOS  LIST   FOE  MAY. 

Original        Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

B.     d«  B.     d. 

Tjncae,  Fredk.     A  Biography.     By  C.  T.  Eiethmuller         ...  new       4     6  ...     1     6 

Lyndon,  J.  W.     Ninety-Three ......  .........       7     6  ...     5     0 

Lyric  Gems  of  Scotland.     2  parts  in  1,  with  Music  ...  new      7    0  ...     4     0 

Lytton,  Lord.     Poems  ...  wew    10     6  ...     3    0 

K.  B.  SerbskiPesme:  or,  National  Songs  of  Servia(7ieio  Is.)       4    0  ,,,     0     8 

Macaulay, Lord.  Lays  of  Ancient  Rome  A/.-w^or.,cZ.s^c?es,  war.  ec?^.  ...     6     6 

" > ■    England.     8  vols,    half -calf  extra  ^  marhle  edges  ...  63     0 

England.  2  vols.  People's  Edition  ^/.-c/.e;r.,m.ei:?.  ...  20    0 

CriticalandHistoricalEssays.  2vl8.ini  A/.-c/.c;ir.  ...  10     0 

M'Causland,  D.     Sermons  in  Stones  half-calf  extra  ....     6     6 

Macbrair,  R.  M.  Africans  at  Home.  With  Map  and  Illustrations  76,,.  2  0 
Macdonald,  D.  G.  F.  Estate  Management,  10th  Edit.  8v,  cl.  .,,  31  d  ...  6  0 
Macfie,   M.     Vancouver    Island    and   British   Columbia,   their 

History,  &c.     With  Maps  and  Illustrations  (neiy4s.)     18     0  ...     3     0 
Macgregor,  J.     The  Rob  Roy  on  the  Jordan     newly -houndj  cloth  ...     8     0 

-=— =- ^-— — .      newly  half-bound  calf  ...     9    0 

Mackay,  C.     Under  the  Blue  Sky    ...  ..,....., 7     6  ...     4     6 

Mackenzie.  (G.  Muir),  and  Irby,  (A.  P  )     Turks»  the  Greeks, 

and  the  Siavone     half-calf  ...  10    0 

Mackintosh,  D.,  F.G.S.  The  Scenery  of  England  and  Wales  : 
Its  Character  and  Origin.  With  86  Woodcuts,  including 
Sections  and  Views  of  Scenery  from  original  Sketches 

and  Photographs  ., ,..,i....  ...  neix) 

— .,= Sir  James.  The  History  of  England.  2  vis.  8vo  netjj 

Macleod,  Norman.     Parish  Papers  neiu 

. .^^-^  .     Peeps  at  tlie  Far  East.    4to *. ., 

Maguire,   J.   F.      Pontificate  of  Pius   Ninth      ...  

,-———«— —    The  Irish  in  America  ...  nenv 

-■   ■ — — newly  half- bound 

Maine,  H.  S.     Village  Communities  in  the  East  and  West    9 

Malet,  Sir  A.     The  Overthrow  of  the  Germanic  Confederation 

by  Prussia  in  1866 
Malmesbury,  Letters  of  the  First  Earl.    2  vols.  ......... 

Man  of  the  People:  a  Tale  of  1848.    By  M.  M.  Erckmann- 
^  Chatrian.     2  vols. 

Marie:   or,  Glimpses  of  Life  in  France    .      ...»..,., 

Mariette:   Sequel  to  ditto         .........  :...,.. 

Marriner,  E.  T.  J.     Sermons  Preached  in  the  Parish  Church  of 

Ljme  Regis   neio 
Marryat,  H.     A  Residence  in  Jutland,  the  Danish  Isies  and 

Copenhagen,     Illustrated.     2  vols,  {neto  6s.) 

One  Year  in  Sweden.     With  Map  and  Illustrations 

2  vols,  new 

Marsh,  J.  B.     The  Story  of  Harecourt  

Marshall,  Charles.     The  Canadian  Dominion   

Marshman,  J.  C.    The  Story  of  Carey  Marshman,  and  Ward  new 

Matheson,  John.     England  to  Delhi :    a  Narrative  of   Indian 

Travel.    "With  82  Illustrations.     Cloth      neicl^  bound 

Martin,  F.     Handbook  of  Contemporary  Biography  ...  neio 

Martineau,  J.     Letters  from  Australia  ,,.     ...  

Martyrs  of  Spain newly  half-bound  calf 

Marvell,  Andrew.     Poetical  Works  ...  new 

Massey,  W.     History  of  England,  Reign  of  George  III.    4  vols. 

half -calf  extra,  marble  edges 
Masterman,  G.  F.     Seven  Eventful  Years  in  Paraguay  {new  3s.) 

—.^ — >—»__—_ — .     8vo 


Matheson,  Duncan.  Life  and  Labours  of.  By  Rev,  J.  Macpherson 
Maudsley,  Henry.  Body  and  Mind.  Gulstonian  Lecture  .....-.«.. 
Mayne,  R.  0.    British  Columbia (new  68.^ 


12 

0  ... 

3 

6 

n 

0  ... 

9 

0 

3 

6  ... 

2 

6 

21 

0  ... 

9 

0 

12 

6  ... 

H 

0 

12 

6  ... 

6 

6 

... 

9 

0 

9 

0  ... 

5 

6 

18 

G  ... 

5 

0 

30 

0  ... 

3 

6 

21 

0  ... 

3 

6 

6 

0  . 

2 

0 

7 

6  ,», 

3 

0 

4 

6  ... 

o 

0 

24 

0  ... 

4 

6 

28 

0  ... 

7 

6 

6 

0  ... 

3 

6 

12 

6  ... 

6 

0 

3 

6  ... 

2 

6 

31 

6  ... 

21 

0 

••> 

1 

6 

7 

6  ... 

3 

0 

... 

6 

0 

2 

6  ... 

2 

0 

«  «« 

32 

0 

5 

0  ... 

2 

0 

12 

0  ... 

5 

0 

5 

0  ... 

3 

6 

5 

0  ... 

3 

6 

16 

0  ... 

4 

6 

...•     b 

6 

21 

0  ...     2 

0 

3 

6  ...     2 

Q 

21 

0  ...     i6 

0 

7 

6  ...    2 

6 

MISOELLANEOUP.  JJ 

Original        Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

B.     d.  B.    d. 

May,  T.  E.  Constitutional  History  of  England.  2  vis.  hf.-cf.  extra  ...  32    0 

M'Crea,  Lieut.-Col.     Lost  Amid  the  Fogs.     Sketches  of  Life  in 

Newfoundland... (wew>  5s.)     10     6  ...     4    0 

M'Clintock.     Captain  Sir  F.  L.    The  Voyage  of  the  Fox  in  the 

Arctic  Seas  half -calf  extra^  marble  edges 

M'Donald,  Flora.     Autobiography  of.     2  vols.  

Men  who  have  Made  Themselves  -  -.  nem 

Mercer,  General.  Journal  of  the  Waterloo  Campaign.  2  vole. 
Meredith,  Mrs.  Lacemakers.  Sketches  of  Irish  Characters  ... 
Merivale,  C.     The  History  of  the  Komans  under  the  Empire. 

8  vols,    half-calf  extra,  marhle  edges  ...  68     0 

Meteyard,  Eliza.     A  Group  of  Englishmen,  1795  to'l815.    Being 

Records  of  the  Younger  Wedgwoods  and  their  Friends     16     0  ...     7     6 
Michie,  A.     The  Siberian  Overland  Route  from  Peking  to 

St.  Petersburg.     Illustrated  half-calf  extra  .„     9     6 

Military  Heroes  of  England,  from  Invasion  of  Julius  Caasar    ...      3    6  ,..     1     6 

..^ — -^ „. — -.- >= — — new      3    6  ...     2    6 

Mill,  The,  on  the  Floss  half- calf  extra  ...     6    0 

Mill,  J.  S.  Chapters  and  Speeches  on  the  Irish  Land  Question  wwc«.       2     6...     10 

Principles  of  Pol'tical  Economy  half-calf  extra  ...     7     0 

Mills,  J.     Three  Months'  Residence  at  Nablus    ...  .« 10     6  ...     3    & 

Miller,  Hugh.    Works.     13  vols.,  handsomely  bound  in  green 

cloth,  gilt  tops  new  ....  55    0 

Milman,  Dean.   Historyof  LatinChristianity.  9  vs.  )i/'.-c/'a/^i^g'W6  ...  72     0 

Annals  of  St.  Paul's  Cathedral    half -calf  antique  .».  15     0 

— — ~— History   of  the  Jews.       3  vols.,    crown  8vo 

,  ^  half-calf  antique  ...  21     0 

Millingen,  Major  F.     Wild  Life  Among  the  Koorda  15     0...     3     0 

Ministering  Children.     With  Sequel.    2  vols.  half-morocco  ...  12     G 

Miramion,  Madame.     Life  of.     Edited  by  Lady  Herbert „.     10     6  ...     2     6 

Mitchel,  0.  M.  The  Planetary  and  Stellar  Worlds,  with  additions. 

By  Author  of  Travels  in  Air.     22  Illustrations  ...  n£W  ,c.     1     6 

Mitford,  A.  B.     Tales  of  Old  Japan.     2  vols ,. 21     0  ...     6     0 

Mivart,  St.  George,  on  the  Genesis  of  Species 8     0  ...     5     6 

Moens,  W.  J.  C.     English   Travellers   and   Italian   Brigands. 

Illustrated.     2  vols,     new    21     0  ...     5     0 
Monsell,  Rev.  J.  S.  B.     Our  New  Vicar        newly  half-hownd  calf  *.-     5     6 

— .. — -__ ^ — .„ . newly-hound  half-roan  ...     4     6 

Montagu,  De,  Memoirs  of  Marquise.     By  Baroness  de  Noailles      7     6  .,.     2     0 

Moonshine.     By  Knatchbull-Hugessen,  MP half-morocco  ...     7     0 

Moonstone,  The.     By  Wilkie  Collins half-morocco  ...     8     6 

Moor,  H.     A  Visit  to  Russia     ........         (new  2b.)      7     6  ...     1     0 

Moore,  T.     A  Selection  of  Irish  Melodies  with  Symphonies  and 

Accompauiments.    By  Sir  J.  Stevenson.    2  vols,  in  1  neii/  ...    7     6 

Morris's   History   of    British   Birds.       With   360   exquisitely 

Coloured  Plates.     6  vols ...  new  126     0  ...  95     0 

Motley,  J.  L.     History  of  the  United  Netherlands  

4  vis.  cr.  8vo  half-calf  extra 

— I      The  Rise  of  the  Dutch  Republic.   3  vols.  8vo  new 

— — » ■         3  vols.,  8vo     half -calf  extra 

— — 1  vol.    hf.-cf  ex. 

Mottoes  and  Aphorisms  from  Shakspere       ...  new 

Mouhot,  M.H.  Travels  in  Central  Parts  of  Indo-China.  2  vols  new     32 
Mr.    Facey    Romford's    Hounds.       Illustrated    by    J.     Leech 

half-calf  extra^  marble  edges 
Mr.  Pisistratus  Brown,  MP  ,  in  the  Highlands    ..,  ..-...„       6 

Mr.  Sponge's  Sporting  Tour         „      half  calf  extra.,  marhle  edges 

Mundy,  General  G.  C.     Journal  of  a  Tour  in  India  7 

Musgrave,  Rev.  G.  A.     Ramble  into  Brittany.     2  vols 24 


•  0  C 

23 

0 

•  •  • 

26 

6 

«»« 

31 

6 

•  •« 

7 

6 

•   «  • 

1 

6 

0  ... 

12 

0 

•  •  e 

17 

0 

0  .. 

3 

0 

•  •-« 

17 

0 

G  ... 

2 

6 

0  ... 

4 

0 

14  W.  H.  SMITH  AND   SON'S   EEDUOED  FEIC3  LIST   FOB   MAY. 

Original        Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

B.     d.              8«  d. 

Murray  s  Home  and  Colonial  Library,  at  reduced  prices  weio  each  ...     1  0 
Meredith's  N.S.  Wales                   Sieges  of  Vienna 
Carnarvon's  Portugal                     Sierra  Leone 
Munro's  Life                                   Melville's  Omoo  &  Typee,  eacJi 
Malcolm's  Persia                             Amberwich 
Ford's  Spain                                     Livonian  Tales 

Mytton,  Jack,  Life  of.     With  Coloured  Illus.        Tialf-calf  extra  ...  20  0 

Napier's  Battles  and  Sieges  of  the  Peninsular  War  hf.-cj.  extra  ...  11  0 
Napoleon  III,  from  the  Popular  Cancatures  of   the   Last  30 

Years,  with  140  Illustrations  7     6   ...     5  0 
Nettleship,  J.  T.     Essays  on  Robert  Browning's  Poetry    ...  neio  6     6  ...     4  0 
Nichol,  J.  P.   The  Architecture  of  the  Heavens.  Illustrated  new  16     0  ...     7  6 
— "  F.     A  Handy  Book  of  the  British  Museum  for  Every- 
day Readers.     Illustrated    new  21     0  ...     5  6 

Nine  Years  01d._    By  the  Author  of  "  St.  Olaves  "              4     G  ...     30 

*Nobility  of  Life  j    its  Graces  and  Virtues.     Edited  by  Mrs. 

Valentine,  4to  21     0  ...     9  0 
Occasional  Essays.  By  W.  H.  Hoskyns,  M.P.,  Author  of  "  Talpa, 

or  the  Chronicles  of  Clay  Farm "  5     6  ...     1  0 

Oglethorpe,  Genl.  James.  Memoirs  of.  By  R.  Wright,  (new 2s.)  10    6  .c,     1  0 
*01d  English  Ballads.  Illustrated  with  50  large  Engravings  by 
Birket    Foster,    Tayler,   Nash,   Thomas,   Franklin,    and 

other  Eminent  Artists,  4to,  cloth  elegant,  gilt  edges     ...  21     0  ...     7  6 

Old  Memories  of  the  Stukeleys.  By  Lady  0' Donnell            ...new  5    0  ...     2  6 

Oliphant,  Mrs.     Sketches  of  the  Reign  of  George  II.     2  vols.  21     0  ...     3  6 
O'Neil,   H.     Lectures    on    Painting,    delivered    at   the   Royal 

Academy  n&w  •  ...     1  6 

On  Both  Sides  of  the  Sea       .     ,...,              newly  bound  half-calf  ...     5  6 
Our  Adventures  during  the  War  of  1870.     By  Two  English- 

v/omeu.     2  vols.  21   *0  ...     5  0 
Outbreak  (The)  of  the  Great  French  Revolution.  By  E.  Chatrian. 

3  vols,     (new  7s.  6d,)  31     6  ...     5  0 

Owen  Robert,  The  Life  of        ...  new  10    0  ...     3  0 

PaijkuU,  C.  W.     A  Summer  in  Iceland     =<......,.             14    0  ...     3  0 

Palgrave,  F.  T.     Lyrical  Poems  6    0  ...     3  0 

Palliser,  Mrs.  Brittany  and  its  Byways.  Illustrated  (new  5s.  6d.)  12     0  ...     4  6 

^Palmer's  Index  to  the  Tzmes  Newspaper.      4  parts,  1868 40     0  ...  12  6 

__ — __„.„,.=„. 1st  &  2nd  part,  1869  40    0  ...  12  G 

Palmerston,  Viscount.      Life  of.      By  Sir  H.   Lytton  Bulwer, 

2  vols.  30    0  ...  10  6 

Parisian  Family,  A.     By  Madame  Guizot  de  Witt              5     0  ...     1  6 

Parkinson,  J.  C.     Places  and  People                ....... 7     6  ...     2  6 

Pateraon,  N.     The   Manse   Garden  ;    or,  Pleasant   Culture   of 

Fruit  Trees,  Flowers,  Vegetables  and  Sweet  Herbs  ...  neii/  ...  2  0 
Paul  Pendril ;  or,  Sport  and  Adventure  in  Corsica  (new  2s.)  10  6  ...  1  0 
Pemberton,  H.  History  of  Monaco  ,.  ,,-  ...new  12  0  ...  2  0 
Peaks,  Passes,  and  Glaciers  :  a  Series  of  Excursions.  By  Mem- 
bers of  the  Alpine  Club  (new,  Ss.)  5  6  ...  2  6 
Personal  Recollections  of  English  Engineers  and  of  the  In- 
troduction   of    the    Railway   System   into   the   United 

Kingdom.    8vo ...  new  12    0  ..      4  6 

*Peter  Lipp  :  or  the  Story  of  Boy's  Venture     ...     2  0 

Pepper,  J.  H.     Cyclopaedic  Science  Simplified.  With  600  Illus- 
trations    half-calf  extra,  marble  edges  ,           ...  10  0 

— -«-. Play  Book  of  Metals  half- calf  extra,  marble  edges  ...     7  0 

— — ■■ o£  Science  half-calf  extra,  marble  edges  ...     7  0 

Pepys,  Samuel.  Diary  and  Correspondence  hlj'-clf.  ex.,  mar.  edges  ...     6  0 

„ ..-^ ^.^-.-^.-.^ -. cloth  5     0  ...     4  0 

Phillips,  C.  S.  M.     Horse  and  Man .new  2    6...     1  0 


MISCELLANEOUa  15 

Original       Second-hand 
Published  Price       Offered  at 

Phelps,  E.S.     The  Silent  Partner  ......... 5     0...     2*    0 

— The  Gates  Ajar       2     6  ,.,     1     6 

Pictures  from  Paris  in  War  and  in  Siege.     By  an  American  Lady      7     6  ...     3    0 
Pike,  Gr.  H.     Ancient  Meeting  Houses  :  or,  Memorial  Pictures 

of  Nonconformity  in  Old  London     new      7     6  ...     4     6 
Pim,  Commander  (and  B.  Seeman).    Dottings  on  the  Roadside 

in  Panama,  Nicaragua  and  Mosquito,  Illustrated  (new  Gs.)     18     0  ...     5     0 

"  — — =-=— — —  ^-- neioly  hound  half-calf  ...     8     6 

Plowden,  T.  0.     Travels  in  Abyssinia  and  the  Galla  Country  ...     21     0  ...     5     0 
*Poets'  Wit   and  Humour.     Selected  by   W.    H.   Willes.     100 
Curious  Engravings  from  Drawings  by  Charles  Bennett 

and  George  Thomas,  small  4to,  cloth  gilt  15     0  ...     6    0 

*Poets.     Nimmo's  Crown  Library.     Crown  8vo  ...eocA      3     6  .>.     2    3 

Ballads,  Scottish  and  English  Moore         Scott        Burns 

Pollington,  Viscount.     Half  Round  the  Old  World.     1865-6   ...     14     0...     5     6 

Powell,  Rev.  B.     The  Unity  of  the  Worlds (new  68.)     12     0...     4     6 

Practical  Lessons  on  Hunting  and  Sporting.     By  *' Scrutator"      9    0  „,     2    0 

— — — p— — . — » new      9    0  ...    2    6 

Present  Day  Thoughts.     By  the  Author  of  "  Recreations  of  a 

Country  Parson "       3     6  ...     2     6 

Prince  Consort's  Addresses.     8vo.     Murray (new  2&.  Qd.)     10     6  ...     1     6 

Prince  Albert's  Golden  Precepts ;    or  the  Opinions  and  Maxims 

of  H.R.H.  Prince  Consort.    With  Photo,  cl.  extra,  (new  2s.)  ,,,     1     6 
Prescott,  H.  P.     Strong  Drink  and  Tobacco  Smoke            ...  new      7     6  ...     4     0 
Prescott's  Historical  Works.      Cabinet  Edition.       New  Edition 
revised,  with  Steel  Plates.    14  vols.    Crown  8vo.     Com- 
prising the  following : —                      ..,  n&io                ...  50     0 

History  of  Philip  the  Second  of  Spain.     3  vols. 
The  Reign  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella.    3  vols. 
The  Conquest  of  Mexico.     3  vols. 
The  Conquest  of  Peru.     3  vols. 
Charles  the  Fifth.     2  vols. 

Pryme,  George,  M.A.    Autobiographic  Recollections  of    , 12 

*Pupil8  of  St.  John,  The  4 

Pyne,T.B.  Lake  Scenery  of  England.  With  25  Chromo  plates  new    21 

Rambles  in  the  Deserts  of  Syria Murray  (neio  2s.  6d.)     10 

Ralegh,  Sir  Walter.       The    Life    of.     By   Edward    Edwards. 

With  Portrait  on  Steel.     2  vols,     (new  12s.)     32     0  ...     9     0 
Ramsay,  A.  C.     The  Old  Glaciers  of  Switzerland  and  North 

Wales  {new  2s.)      4      .«  ...     1     6 
Raphael,  Santi.     His  Life  and  His  Works.     By  Alfred  Baron 

Von  Wolzogen  new  9  0  ...  5  0 
Rassam,  H.  British  Mission  to  Abyssinia.  2  vols,  (wezo,  10s.  6d.)  28  J  ...  8  0 
Rawlinson,  G.     Five  Great  Monarchies  of  the  Ancient  Eastern 

World.    Maps,  and  Illustrations.  3  vols.      half -calf  extra  ...  52     0 

Reasons  for  Returning  to  the  Church  of  England  5     0  ,,,     3     0 

Recamier,  Madame.    With  a  Sketch  of  the  History  of  Society  in 

France  new      9     0  ,,.     3     6 
Recollections  of  Eton.     By   an  Etonian.       With  Illubtrations 

by  Sydney  P.  Hall.     Svo   new     12     0...     4     6 
Recreations  of  a  Recluse.     By  the  Author  of  "  Cues  from  all 

Quarters."     2  vols,     new    21     0  ...     4     0 
Redding,  Cyrus.    Personal   Reminiscences   of   Eminent   Men. 

3  vols,      neiv     31     6  ,,.     6     0 

Religious  Thought  in  Germany   Cweic4s.)     12    0  ...     3    0 

Reminiscences  of  America  in  1869.     By  Two  Englishmen  7     6  ...     2     6 

Rennie,  Dr.     Peking  and  the  Pekingese.     2  vols.  (new  5s.)     24    0  ...     2     6 

Rickard,  Major  F.  J.      A  Mining  Journey  across  the    Great 

Andes  new      7    6  ...     2     6 


0  ...     5 

6 

6  ...     3 

0 

0  ,..  12 

6 

6  ...     1 

0 

16  '  W.   H.  BMITH  AND  BON'S  BBDUOED  PEIOE  LIST  FOB  MAY. 

Original        Second-hand 
•  Published  Price       Offered  at 

s.     d.  s.  d. 

Eichardson,  C.  J.    Picturesque  Designs  for  Mansions,  Villas, 
Lodges,  &c.,  &c.     Illustrated  by  about  500   Original 

Engravings,  1870            .^ ..« „.  nev)  42    0  ...  15  0 

Eiethmuller,  C.  J.     Three  Legends  of  the  Early  Church  ...  nenv  5    0  ...  2  0 

Ritchie,  J.  E.     British  Senators  ......  {nenvly  half-hound  5s.)  new  10    6  ,„  4  6 

—             Keligious  Life  in  London                 {nemo  Ss.  6d.)  12    0  ...  2  6 

Koberts,  John,  on  Billiards      7     6  ...  4  0 

Eobeitson,  W.,  D.D.    The  Works  of,  including  the  History  of 

Scotland  with  Life.   By  Dugald  Stuart     6  vols.  8vo  new  54    0  ...  25  0 

EobinsoUgCrusoe.     Globe  Edition                  half-morocco  ...  5  6 

.  G.  T.    The  Fall  of  Metz 18    0  ...  5  6 

W.     The  Sub-Tropical  ^Garden  ;  or,  Beauty  of  Form 

in  the  Flower  Garden  7     6  ...  5  6 

llogerp,  Rev.  C.     A  Century  of  Scottish  Life  ......             5     0  ...  2  0 

E.  J.     Historical  Gleanings.     Ist  Series               , 4    6  ..»  2  0 

— — 2nd  Series 6    0  ...  3  6 

Rollwyn,  J.  A.    Astronomy   Simplified  for  General   Reading. 

With  Coloured  Plates         half-calf  extra,  marlle  edges  ...  12  6 

Rolfe,  J.  Extracts  from  English  Literature  (^grt7^e</gf<?s  3s.  6djnew>  6    0  ...  2  6 

Rose,  Hon.  G.  Diaries  and  Correspondence.  2  vols.            ...  new  30    0  ...  7  6 

— —  George,  M.A.  "  Mrs.  Brown."   The  Great  Country (w€to  3s.)  15    0  „•  1  0 
*Roscoe,  T.  Wanderings  and  Excursions  in  North  Wales.  With 

50  Engravings  with  Map  10    6  ...  7  6 

* South  Wales  10    6  ...  7  6 

Rothschild's  C  and  De.     The   History  and  Literature  of  the 

Israelites.    2  vols.  12    6  ...  6  0 
Rowley,  Rev.  H.    The  Story  of  the  Universities   Missions  to 

Central  Africa            newly  half-hound  calf  ...  6  6 

Royalists  and  Roundheads;  or,  The  Days  of  Charles  the  First    ..,  ...  1  6 

-■     ..in,...  „. ■ii.iii                                                            1..—. ■■■...um.--,..  „mmr.^..    ...,-~~^.                     WgiO  ...  U  0 

8ala,  G.  A.     Notes  on  the  Paris  Exhibition.       8vo  {nem  2s.  6d.)  15    0  ...  2  0 

-— —    Rome  and  Venice,  with  other  Wanderings  in  Italy 

in  1866-67      ...  new  IS    0  ...  4  0 

SalmSalm.     Prince  Felix,  Diary  in  Mexico,  in  1867.     2  vols...,  24    0  ...  2  0 

Savage  Club  Papers  for  1868   -..             ...   newly  half -houiidy  ...  4  6 

Savonarola.     Life  of.     By  P.  Villari.    2  vols.» ,..  new  18    0  ...  6  6 

Schimmelpenninck,  (Mary  Anne).  Life  of.  Witii  Portrait  new  10    6   ...  4  0 

Schubert,  Franz.     Life  of.    2  vols.               ,              .,,new  21     0  ...  7  6 

Science  of  Foxhunting  and  Management  of  the  Kennel,  by 

Scrutator.    Roxburghe  (new  5s.)  ...  3  0 

Scoffern,  Dr.     Stray  Leaves  of  Science  and  Folk  Lore »  12     0  ...  5  0 

Scott,  Sir  W.  The  Waverley  Novels.  4  vols,  (half -calf  258.)  new  ...  21  0 

._ — .-=«..-x,— —    The  Centenary  Edition.     25  wola.  half -calf  extra  ...126  0 

The  Lady  of  the  Lake.  12mo,  gilt             ,..  new  ...  2  6 

~-    Poetical  Works.    Chandos  Edition,  Red  Lines     ...  new  7     6  ...  4  6 

Scudamore  on  the  OfiBce  of  the  Intellect  of  Religion         9    0  ...  1  6 

SeLior,  N.  W.     Journals  Kept  in  Franca  and  Italy  from  1848 

to  1852.    2  vols.  24    0  ...  12  0 

Seven  Curses  of  London.  By  James  Greenwood...            7     6  ...  2  6 

Shaftesbury,  First  Ear).     Life  of.     By  W.  D.  Christie.     2  vols.  24     0  ...  14  0 
Shakespeare,  W.  Plays  and  Poems.  Edited  with  a  scrupulous  re- 
vision of  the  Text,  but  without  Note  or  Comment,  by 
Charles  and  Mary  Gowden  Clarke,   With  an  Introductory 
Essay  and  Copious  Glossary.    In  4  handsome  library  8vo 

vols.,  elegantly  printed  on  toned  paper,  cloth              ne'w  42     0  ...  25  0 

«K— — -^  The  above  Text.     1  vol.    Edited  by  Charles 

and  Mary  Oowden  Clarke,  with  Portrait,    8vo,  cloth  new 

Shand,  A.  J.     On  the  Trail  of  the  War  

Sheppard,  Nathan.     Shut  Up  in  Paris  


14 

0  ...  10 

0 

5 

0  ...     1 

0 

10 

6  ...     4 

0 

MISCELLANEOUS.                                   •  17 

Original        Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

s.     d.  0.  d. 

Shepherd,  C.  "W.,  M^.     The  North  Y/est  Peninsnla  of  Iceland. 

Journal  of  a  Tonr  in  1862  (new  2s.)  7     6  ...  1  0 

Silas  Marner         ...»             half -calf  extra  ...  4  6 

Sinclair,  Sir  G.,  Baronet.     Memoirs  of.     By  J.  Grant         16    0  ,„  2  6 

Sketches  of  Modern  Paris.     Translated  from  the  German  by 

Francis  Locock  7     6  ...  1  0 
Smiles,    Samuel.       Huguenots     in     England.      Crown    8vo 

half-calf  extra^  marMe  edges  ...  7  6 

^ , —  Industrial  Biography    „            ,,            „  ...  6  0 

* ^-^^^-^^ „            „  6    0  ...  3  0 

■I           — — — —  Self  Help                  half -calf  extra  J  marhle  edges  ...  7  b 

Character       ,             ,„  8  (» 

-— S.    Lives  of  Bouiton  and  Watt,  8vo,  cloth             ...  neuj  21    0  ...  &  0 

■                  The  Huguenots.    "Best  Edition  ne-joly  half-hound  calf  ...  9  0 

Smith,  Agnes.     Eastern  Pilgi-ims,  the  Travels  of  Three  Ladies  15    0  ...  3  U 

Sidney.    Elementary  Sketches  of  Moral  Philosophy  neto  6    0  ...  3  *• 

Alexander.     City  Poems ...  neuo  5    0  ...  1  6 

Smith,  Alexander.     Earlier  Years  of             ..^  new  4     6  ...  2  0 

* Horace.     The  Tin  Trumpet                 „...,..              2     6  ...  2  0 

—  Southwood,  M.D.    The  Philosophy  of  Health(newj  5s.  6d.)  15    0  ...  4  0 
.  -V  Adam.     Wealth  of  Nations                 ,..  new  5    0  ...  3  0 

Rev.  A.  C.     Narrative  of  a  Spring  Tour  in  Portugal    ,.,  6     6  ...  2  G 

Smollet's  Works.     3  vols.     Containing: —                           ...  new  ...  7  6 
Eoderick  Random,  Humphrey  Clinker,  Peregrine  Pickle 

Scares,  G.  de  M.     Sketches  on  the  Wing      , 6     0  ...  1  6 

Somerville,  M.    On  Molecular  and  Microscopic  Science.    2  vols. 

(new  12s.  6d.)  21    0  ...  10  0 

*Songs  for  the  Little  Ones  at  Home              5    0  ...  2  0 

Sports  and  Pursuits  of  the  English.    By  Lord  Wilton.    Or.  8vo, 

cloth        ...  new  8    6  ...  2  0 

Sporting  Reminiscences  of  Hampshire,  1745  to  1862,  by  ^sop  6     6  ...  1  6 

Stallard,  Dr.     London  Pauperism                    ..(new,  2s.  Od.)  12     0  ...  1  0 

Stanhope,  Earl.    The  Reign  of  Queen  Anne .»,,,...-  16    0  ...  6  (; 

Stanton  Grange.    By  Rev.  J.  C.  Atkinson.   Illustrated  {new  Ss.)  5     0  ...  2  6 

Stanley,  Dean.  Memorials  of  Westminster  Abbey  nly.hlf.-bd.  elf.  ...  13  0 

— _. = Sermon  on  Charles  Dickens  ....,,...            ...  neio  1     0  ...  0  4 

Stephen,  Caroline  E.     The  Service  of  the  Poor  ... 6     6  ...  3  0 

Leslie.    The  Playground  of  Europe  ......            10     6  ...  5  (i 

Sterne, Laurence.    Life  of .    By  P.  Fitzgerald.    2  vols.     Portrait  24    0  .,.  4  6 

—  '       •              '    •    -— — — ~-,-.~« ^„— „— .^ — ,    jj^2«  24    0  ...  6  b 

Sterne's  Wanderings  in  Abyssinia.    Illustrated.    8vo     (new  6s.)  15     0  ...  4  6 

Steinmetz,  A.     The  Romance  of  Duelling.    2  vols,  (new  6?.  Qd.)  21     0  ...  G  6 

—  '  - The  Gaming  Table,    its  Votaries  and  Victinib 

in   all  Times  and  all  Countries,  especially  in  England 

and  Holland.    2  vols.   8vo  ...             (ne^i  5s.)  30    0  ...  S  6 

St.  John,  J.  A.      History  of  the  Four  Conquests  of  England. 

2  vols.  8vo  {new  4s.  6d.)  28    0  ...  3  6 

St.  Clair,  S.  G.  B.  (and  C.  H.  Brophy).      Residence  in  Bulgaria  12    0  ...  2  f> 

Stonehenge's   Hints   to   Sportsmen   on    Guns    and    Shooting. 

Illustrated      halfroxburgh  new  ...  5  U 

Stowe,  H.  B.     Pink  and  White  Tyranny      3     6...  1  6 

— — —  Calvin  E.     Origin,  (Thej,  and  History  of  the  Books  of 

the  New  Testament    new  8     6  ...  4  0 

Story,  Robert.    Memoir  of.    By  R.  H.  Story                        ...  new  7    6  ...  2  6 
Strangford,  Viscount.   A  Selection  from  the  Writings  of.  2  vis. 

newly  ha^^- bound  calf  ...  10  0 

Stratford  de  Redcliffe,  Viscount.     Shadows  of  the  Past          new  10    6  ,,.  5  0 

Sunday  Magazine.  Edited  by  Dr.  Guthrie.  Vols.  1868,  1870-1  each  ...  5  0 


18  W.  H.  SMITH  AND  SON'S  BEDUOED  PBIOE  LIST    FOB  MAY. 

Original        Second-hand 

Publislied  Price       Offered  at 

s.     d.  s.  d. 

Strickland,  Agnes.  Lives  of  the  Tudor  Princesses   nly.  hlf-hd.  cf.  ...  7  6 
■■                                    Lives  of  the  Queens  of  England.     6  vols. 

Portraits     half-calf^  marhle  edges^  new  ...  40  0 

Sutton,  I.,  and  Dawson,  G.     Dictionary  of  Photography       new  8     6  ...  3  6 

Swainson,  W.    New  Zealand  and  its  Colonization            ...  nenu  14    0  ,^  4  0 

Swinburne's,  A.  C,  Poems         half-morocco  ,.,  12  0 

* -—  Songs  before  Sunrise      10     6  ..  6  6 

Taylor,  G.  H.     Word  Pictures  from  the  Bible ...  new  4     6  ...  2  6 

—  Henry,  Sir.     St.  Clement's  Eve         (new  2s.)  5    0  ...  1  6 

— «««-.  Bishop  Jeremy.     A  Biography.     By  Rev.  Robt.  Aris 

Willmott    new  5    0  ...  2  6 

Taylor,  Bayard.     Joseph  and  His  Friend      19     6  ...  2  0 

*Telford,  Thomas.    The  Life  of.     By  S.  Smiles  ...            6     0  ...  2  6 

Temple  Bar  Magazine.     Odd  vols.                 each  ...  2  6 

Tennyson,  Alfred.     The  Holy  Grail     half-morocco ^  marhle  edges  ...  7  6 

—— Poems  half-morocco^  cloth  sides,  marhle  edges  ...  10  6 

■                                   Selections  from  ,,      and  half-calf  extra^  each  ...  7  6 

- — — Idyls  of  the  King  „                              „  ...  9  0 

A   Concordance   to   the   entire    Works   of. 

By  D.  B.  Brightwbll    new  21     0  ...  ID  6 

•             — • ■  ' -="=-       half-calf  extra  ...  13  6 

Tenet,  E.     Paris  in  Dec,  1851,  or  Coup  d'  Etat  of  Napoleon  III.  10     6  ...  3  0 

Thompson,  D.     Handybook  to  the  Flower  Garden    half-morocco  ...  9  0 

*Thackeray,  W.  M.     Christmas  Books          9     0  ...  5  6 

— — — — —     Vanity  Fair      ...             half-calf  ext^^a  ...  7  6 

-'     '" -— — ^—    Virgitiians.     Svo.    Illus.     newly  hlf-bd.  elf.  ...  14  0 

New  Complete  and  Illustrated  Edition  of 

the  Works  of.     22  vols.,  S^o  half- calf  extra  marhle  edges  ,.230  0 

Crown  Edition.  13  vole.             hlf.-clf  ex.  ...120  0 


Thomson,  George.     The  Discovery  of  a  New, World  of  Being  6    0  ...  3  6 

— A.  S.    Story  of  New  Zealand.    2  vole.            (new>  6s.)  24    0  ...  4  0 

^,»..™  D'Arcy,  W.     Wavside  Thoughts                  {new,  4s.)  6    0  ...  2  0 

Thornbury,  G.  W.     Old  Stories  Retold           ..,..,.     (n^  3s.  6d.)  9     0  ...  2  6 

I    Turkish  Life  &  Character.  2  vis.  (wei^  5s.  6d.)  21     0  ...  4  6 

. A  Tour  Round  England.     2voly 24    0  ...  4  0 

Thoughts  for  the  Age.     By  the  Author  of  "  Amy  Herbert  "    ...  5     0  ...  2  6 
Through   the   Looking-Glass.      By    the    Author    of   "  Alice's 

Adventures"     half-morocco  ...  8  0 
Timbs,  John.     English  Eccentrics  and  Eccentricities.     2  vols. 

neiuly  half-hound  calf  ...  10  0 

Tom  Brown's  School  Days.  By  an  Old  Boy              half-calf  extra  ...  5  6 
Tommy  Try,  and  what  He  Did  in  Science.    With  46  Illustrations. 

By  C.  0.  G.  Napier  of  Murchistoun    neio  6     0  ...  3  6 

Towle,  G.  M.     American  Society.     2  vols,  in  1    ...  {new  3s.  6d.)  .„  2  0 
Townsend,  Captain.    A  Cruise  in  Greek  Waters,  with  a  Hunting 

Excursion  in  Tunis  15     0  ,„  3  6 

— — =— _,    Charles.     Wit  and  Statesman    10     6  ...  2  0 

Tozer,  H.  F.  Highlands  of  Turkey.     2  vols.            half-calf  extra  „.  15  0 
Train,  The.     With  Contribitioua  by  Brough,  Smedley,  Yates, 
Palgrave  Simpson,  Oxenford,  Bianchard,  &c.    Illustrated 

by  C.  H.  Bennett.     5  vols.. ...new  ...  12  6 

Treasury  of  Thought  from  Shakespeare,  cloth  gilt  (new  2s.  6d,)  ...  2  0 

Trench,  W.S.     lerne.     2  volb 21     0  ...  4  0 

•~— — Realities  of  Irish  Life         newly  half -hound  calf  ...  8  6 

— .    I            newly  half-hound  roan  ..»  6  0 

Trevelyan,  G.  0.     Cawnpore   (wezu  3s.  6d.)  6    0  ,,#  3  0 

^ — -«    The  Competition  Wallah (new  3s.  6d.)  6     0  ...  3  0 

Tristram,  H.  B.    The  Land  of  Israel             half-calf  ...  7  0 

H.H.  The  Great  Sahara.  With  Maps  and  lilusts.          new  15        ...  6  0 


MISCELLANEOUS.  19 

Original        Second-hand 
Published  Price       Offered  at 

Traveller's  Library  (Longman  &  Co.)     Double  Volume,  b  ^und 

in  cloth,  next',  for  ...     1     0 

Journal  of  a  ^Residence  in  Norway :  made  with  a  view  to 
enquire  into  the  Moral  and   Political  Economy  of  that 
Country.     By  Samuel  Laing,  Esq. 
Pictures  of  St.  Petersburg.    By  Edward  Jerrmann.   Translated 

from  the  German  by  Frederick  Hardman. 
Life  with  the  Zulus  of  Natal,  South  Africa.     By  G.  H.  Mason. 
Sketches   of  Nature   on   the   Alps.      From   the   German   of 

Friedrich  Von  Tschudi. 
Memoirs  of  a  Maitre  D'Armes  ;  or,  Eighteen  Months  at  St. 
Pet'srsburg.    By  Alexander  Dumas.    Translated  from  the 
French  by  the  Marquis  of  Ormande. 

*Trollope,  Anthony.     North  America.     2vols.ini. ...     3     6 

Tucker,  H.  St.  George.   Life  of.  Chairman  East  India  Company. 

By  J.  W.  Kaye.    8vo    new  ...     5    0 

Tuckerman,  H.  T.  The  Collector.  Essays  on  Books,  Newspapers, 

Pictures,  Inns,  &c.     ...  ne^w      6     0  ...     3     0 
Tupper,  M.  T.     Cithara.     Lyrical  Poems,  Old  &  New       ...  new      5    0  ...     3     0 
*Two  Centuries  of  Song.  With  Critical  and  Biographical  Notes, 
by   Walter  Thornbury,  Illustrations   after   Pictures    by 
Eminent   Artists,   with   Coloured  Borders   designed   by 

Henry  Shaw,  small  4to,  cloth  elegant    21     0  ...     6     0 

Tyndall,  J.     Fragments  of  Science  for  Unscientific  People     ,,,     14     0  ,,.  10     6 

Hours  of  Exercise  in  the  Alps     12     6  ...     8     6 

Tytler,  S.     The  Diamond  Rose  newly  lialf-hound  ...     3     6 

■        and  J.  Fj.  Watson.   The  Songstresses  of  Scotland.  2  vis.     13     0  ..c     7     6 

Vambory,  A.    Travels  in  Centra]  Asia.    Illustrated        (ne^w;  7s.)     21     0  ...     5     6 

=»«»»=™n.     Sketches  of  Central  Asia         half-calf  ...     6     6 

Vaughan,  R.     A  Memoir  of     ........  (wdw,  is.  6d.)       5     0  ...     1     0 

Vefiinier,  P.     History  of  the  Commune  of  Paris...  7     6  ...     5     0 

Vikram  and  the  Vampire  :  or,  Tales  of  Hindu  Devilry. 
Adapted  by  R.  F.  Burton,  F.R.G.S.  With  33  Illustra- 
tions by  Ernest  Griset    (rt(?20  3s.  6d.)       9     0  ...     2     6 

Village  Maiden.     By  H.  A.  Bethell  2     6  ...     1     6 

Voltaire.     By  John  Morley 14     0  ...     9     0 

Wagner   George,   Rev.    A  Memoir   of   the.     By  John   Nassau 

Simpkinson,  M.A.         (new  Is.  6d.)       5    0  ...     1     0 

Walking  Tour  Round  Ireland  in  1865.     By  an  Englishman 10     6  ...     3     0 

Wallington,  Nehemiah  Historical  Notices  of  Events,  occurring 

chiefly  in  the  Reign  of  Charles  I.     2  vols.  ...  new    21     0  ...     7     6 

Walpole,  H.     Anecdotes  of  Painting  in  England  ...  new      5     0   ...     3     6 

Walton's  and  Cotton's  Complete  Angler.  By  Ephemera  A/. -c/er.  ...     5     0 

Wandering  Willie.     The  Story  of ........       6     0  ...     3    0 

Ward,  J.     Workmen  and  Wages  at  Home  and  Abroad  ;  or.  The 

Effects  of  Strikes,  Combinations,  &c.     {new,  2s.  6d.)       7     6  ...     1     6 
Waterton,   Charles.     Essays   on   Natural  History.    With  Life 
of    Author   by   N.    Moore,   Portrait    and    Illustrations 

half-calf  extra^  marhle  edges  ...  10     6 
Watson,  J.  S.     Biographies  of  John  Wilkes  &  William  Cobbett       7     6  ...     4     6 
Webster's  Unabridged  Dictionary   of  the  English  Language. 
New  Illustrated  Edition,  containing  10,00J  more  Words 
than  any  other  Dictionary,  with  upwards  of  3,000  Engra- 
vings.    Quarto...             half -hound,  Russia  new  ...  31     6 

Week   in   a   French   Country   House.     By   Adelaide   Sartoris. 

newly  half -hound 

Weld,  0.  R.     Notes  on  Burgundy  

Westfield.  View  of  Horns  Life  daring  American  War         

What  her  Face  Said.    By  J.  Hepplestone 


•y^*&^»m*'i^  •*  »««»<«»•• 


•  •• 

5 

6 

8 

6 

•  #• 

1 

6 

10 

6 

•  •• 

1 

0 

6 

0 

•  •• 

1 

0 

20  W.  H.  SMITH  AND  SON*S  BBDDOBD   PBIOE  LIST   FOR  MAY. 

Original  Second-hand 
Published  Price       Offered  at 

What  She  Could 3  6...  2  0 

What  She  Did  with  Her  Life.     By  M.  F.  Theed  ...            3  6  ...  2  6 

When  I  was  a  Little  Girl.    Stories  for  Children  ...             4  6  ...  3  0 

Where  Dwellest  Thou  ?  or,  The  Inner  Home (uncut  Ba.}      5  0  ...  2  6 

White,  G.     Natural  History  of  Selborne.     By  Rev.  J.  G.  Wood 

half-calf  extra  ...  5  6 

,  John.    Sketches  from  America        ,.<,.,....  12  0  ...  3  6 

Who  is  Responsible  for  the  War  ?     By  Scrutator              6  0...  1  6 

Whymper,  F.  Travels  and  Adventure  in  the  Territory  of  Alaska 

newli/  half -hound  ...  8  6 

Whyte,  W.  A.     A  Land  Journey  from  Asia  to  Europe       ...,>,..«  12  0  ...  6  0 

*Winkworth,  C.     Christian  Singers  of  Germany                4  6  ...  3  0 

Wyatt,  Captain  W.  J.     Hungarian  Celebrities    ... 10  6  ...  5  6 

Wylie,  J.  A.    The  Impending  Crisis  of  the  Church  and  th  e 

World      3  6  ...  2  6 

Wickham,  Right  Hon.  W.     Correspondence.     2  vols. 30  0  ,..  8  6 

Wilberforce,  Edward.  Social  Life  in  Munich  newly  half-hd.  calf  ...  6  0 

— " "-  S.     Heroes  of  Hebrew  History  9  0  ...  5  6 

Williamson,  Rev.  A.     Journeys  in  North  China.     2  vols 21  0  ...  7  6 

Wilson,  Gen.  Sir  R.    Narrative  of  Events  during  the  Invasion 

of  Russia.    8vo,  cloth  («ew,  7s.  6d.)  15  0  ...  6  0 

"-  Bishop  of  Calcutta.     Life  of.     By  Rev.  J.  Bateman             9  0  ...  4  0 

and  Warren's  Explorations  in  Jerusalem                21  0  ...  6  6 

Wilson's  Tales  of  the  Borders.    In  12  double  vols.,  roxburgh, 

gilt  tops  neio  ...  45  0 

Windham,  Hon.  W.    Diary.    1784  to  1810.     8vo              ...  new  18  0  ...  5  6 

Winter  Tour  in  Spain,  A.    8vo.     Illsstrated                  (new?,  3s.)  15  0  ...  2  0 

Winn,  C.  A.    What  I  Saw  of  the  War 9  0  ...  1  3 

Wolfe,  General.    Life  of.    By  R.  Wright.    8vo  ...            ...  n&w  16  0  ,«  3  6 

Wood,  E.  J.     Wedding  Day  in  all  Ages.    2  vols.               ...  new  18  0  .„  5  0 

•Wordsworth's  Poems  for  the  Young.    Illustrated 6  0  ...  3  6 

Wright's  History  of   Carricature   and  the  Grotesque   in   Art 

Literature  and  Sculpture.     Illus.  by  Fairhoit   new  21  0  ...  12  6 

Wynter's,  Andrew,  M.D.,  Popular  Books.  Cr.8vo,cl.,  red.  to(eacA, new}  ...  2  0 
Our  Social  Bees.     1st  Series        Curiosities  of  Civilization. 

— — 2nd      „  Subtle  Brains  and  Lissom  Fingers. 

Wyse,  Rt.  Hon.  Sir  T.     Impressions  of  Greece    ... 15  0  ,„  5  0 

Yonge,C.D.  TheHistory  of  France  under  the  Bourbons.  4  vs.  nezo  60  0  ...  25  0 

— — — M.     Daisy  Chain                                          half-morocco  ...  7  6 

— '■"■   ■     Heir  of  Redcliff  e                               half -calf  extra  ...  7  6 

■     Musings  on  the  Christian  Year    ...             ..       7  6  ...  4  6 

Young  Benjamin  Franklin.     By  Henry  Mayhew.  With  8  Illus- 
trations.    By  John  Gilbert            (weio  3s.)     6  0  ...  2  0 
~  -  Charles  Mayne.    A  Memoir  of  the  Actor.    2  vols 21  0...  9  0 


Albert  Lunel ;    or,  The  Chateau  of  Languedoc.     By  the  Late 

Lord  Brougham,    3  vols,  cloth^  new    27    0  ...     8    6 

***  Note. — This  Work  was  rigidly  suppressed  by  the  Author  during  his  lifetime. 

Austen's  Novels.    5  vols.  roxburgh  new  ...  12  6 

Cooper's  Novels  in  18  vols.,  cr.  8vo,  cloth  new  ...  37  6 

Dickens's    Complete  Works.      The  Charles  Dickens'  Edition, 
containing   His  Life,  Speeches,  and  Child's  History  of 

England.  21  vols,  in  15  vols,   half-morocco,  marhle  edges,  ...  92  6 

*■ half -calf  extra,  marble  edges  ...  92  6 

Parchasers  of  the  above  are  presented  with  a  copy  of  Frith's  Portrait  of 

Charles  Dickens. 


NOVEI^S.  21 

Original       Second  hand 

Published  Price       Oifered  at 

8.     d.  B.      d. 

Orant's   (James)   Novels    and   Romances.     27  vols.,  12mo,  in 

Roxburghe  binding  nev)  ••«  55    0 

Lever  (Charles)  Works.   Railway  Ed.   19  vols,  in  Roxburghe  new  ...50    0 

Lytton's,  Lord,  Novels  and  Tales.     23  vols,  in  11  ...  50    0 

Marryat,  Capt.  Novels.  With  Steel  Frontispiece.  13vls.,clothn€a;  ...  33    0 

Scott's  Novels.     The  Centenary  Edition.     25  vols,  crown  8vo 

half-calf  extra  ...123    0 

Dumas's  Novels.     15  vols.     Fcap.  8vo  Jialfroan^nev)  ...  44    0 

Maxwell's  Novels.     6vols.  ,, .....„,  half  roan^new  ...  15    0 

Smedley's  Novels.     4  vols.,  cloth ,„  nev)  ...  14    0 

Trollopo'e  (Anthony)  Works.     In  15  vols.,  in  roxburghe       n&ui  ...  42     0 

Containing —  Orley  Farm. 

An  Editor's  Tales.  Phineas  Finn. 

Belton  Estate.  Rachel  Ray. 

Can  You  Forgive  Her?  Tales  of  all  Countries. 

Castle  Richmond.  The  Bertrams. 

Doctor  Thorne.  The  Kellys. 

He  Knew  He  was  Right.  The  Macdermots. 

Lotta  Schmidt.  Miss  Mackenzie. 

Acquitted.     By  Mrs.  Gordon  Smythies.     3  vols.    ...      (»ww>,  5s.)  31     6  ...  2  0 

Adventures  of  Mr.  Verdant  Green.  Illustrated.  New  Edition  n&uj  3     6  ...  2  6 

Adventures  of  Harry  Richmond.     By  George  Meredith.     3  vols.  31     6  ...  5  6 
Adventures  of  Mrs.  Hardcastle.     By  Lady  Charles    S.  Thynne 

3  vols,  nevcly  half-hound  ...  7  6 
Adventures  of  Dr.  Doctor  Brady.     By  W.  H.  Russell.    3  vols. 

newly  half-hound  .»♦  7  6 

After  Baxtow's  Death.    3  vols (new  48.  6d.)  31     6  .;.  1  G 

Agent  of  Broome  Warren,  The.     3  vols. ,«..«...  31     6  ,..  2  0 

Ainsworth,  W.  H.    Myddleton  Pomfret.     3  vols....            ...  neu>  31     6  ...  4  0 

Old  Court.    3  vols. ...ne^w  31     6  ...  5  ?/ 


' Novels.     17  vols.     Fcap.  cloth  ...  n&uj  „,  25  ¥^ 

Alcott,  Louisa  M.     An  Old  Fashioned  Girl        newly  half -hound  ..,  1  0 

Aldersleigh.    2  vols,  in  1 ...  Tiew  21  0  ...  2  i) 

Alice  Graeme.     2  vols,  in  1     {new  3s.  6d.)  21  0  ..♦  2  0 

Amazon,  The.     By  Frantz  Dingelstedt (new  2s.)  7  6  ..♦  1  l) 

Among  Strangers.     Edited  by  B.  S.  Maine  10  6  ...  X  0 

AnneFurness.   By  Author  of  "Aunt  Margaret's  Troubles."  3  vis.  31  6...  2  0 

— — — mw  ...  5  0 

Anteros.     By  the  Author  of  "  Guy  Livingstone."     3  vols.    ......  31  6  ...  3  ^ 

Arthur.     By  the   Authur  of  "  Anne  Dysart."     3  vols 31  6  ...  2  0 

Arthur  Clifford     ...  (newly  half -hound  ^s.  Qdi.^  new  12  0  ...  2  ^ 

Artist's  Proof,  An.    By  Alfred  Austin.     3  vols.  ...            ...  new  31  6  ...  4  6 

A.skaros  Kassis,  the  Copt          .»..=.o. 7  6  ...  1  f> 

Austen,  Jane.     Novels.     5  vols.,  Roxburghe ...  new  ...  12  6 

Author's  Daughter.    By  0.  E.  Spence.  3  vols.       nevjly  half-bd.  ,.,  5  $ 

Autobiography  of  a  Rejected  M.S. ...             .      4  0  ...  1  0 

Bane  of  a  Life.    By  T.  Wright.    3  vols ...  n^w  31  6  ...  5  0 

Baptised withaCurse.  3vols.(wei«Z2/^^/-&oim<?5s.6d.)(neio4s.6d.)  31  6...  2  (? 

Barbara  Heathcote's  Trial.     3  vols.               .,,.,..-,  31  6  ...  5  6 

Baronet's  Sunbeam,  The.     3  vols.   ...             .........             ...  imw  31  6  ...  4  6 

Basil  St.  John,  an  Autumn  Tale  newly  half-hound  ,,,  5  0 

Beauclercs,  The,  Father  and  Son.     By  C.  Clarke.     3  vols. 

newly  half-hound  ...  7  9 

Beautiful  Miss  Barrington.     By  Holme  Lee.     3  vols 31  6  ...  3  6 

Begged  at  Court.     By  Charles  Knight ...n&w  9  0,,,  2  0 

Behind  the  Veil.  By  the  Author  of  "  Six  Months  Hence."  3  vis.  31  6  ...  3  € 

Belgravia  Magazine,  Odd  Vols ...  e«c^  ...  2  0 

Benoni  Blake,  M.D.    Surgeon  at  Glenaldie.    2  vols. 21  0  ...  2  6 


22  W.   H.   SMITH  AND   SON's  EEDUCED   PEICE   LIST   POR   MAY. 

Original        Second-hand 
Published  Price        Offered  at 

Bertram  Pelham  Fane.  By  M.  Brandt.  2  vols,  in  1  {new  2s.  6d.)  2i  0  ...'  2  0 

— — ™ newly  half -lound                ,,.  3  0 

Bitter  is  the  Kind.  By  Hawley  Smart.  3  vols.  (nZ?/.7i<2Z/-5oMwrf  68. 6d.)  31  6...  2  6 

Bitter  Sweets.     By  J.  Hatton.    3  vols.          ...  new  31  6  »»,  4  0 

Blanche  Seymour.     3  vols 31  6  ...  2  0 

BlindpitB.    3  vols.             {newly  half -hound  ^s.')                ...  new  31  6  ...  3  6 

Bond  of  Honour,  The  :  a  Heart  History.     3  vols.               31  6  ...  2  0 

Borrow,  G.     "  Lavengro,"  the  Scholar,  the  Gypsy,  the  Priest. 

3  vols.     (wm7s.  6d.)  30  0...  6  0 

•— " Romany  Bye.  Sequel  to  Lavengro.  2  vis.  in  1  (w62o  68.)  21  0...  5  G 

Bought  with  a  Price.     By  J.  Pomeroy           .,..,., .^.,             ...new  10  6  ...  3  6 

Bound  to  Please.     2  vols {new  4lB.^  21  0  ...  2  0 

Braddon,  Miss.   Birds  of  Prey.  3  vis.        {newly  hf.-hd,^  6s.)  new  31  6  ,,,  4  0 

Run  to  Earth.    3  vols o        {new,  5s.)  31  6  ...  3  0 

Fenton's  Quest.     3  vols.      ..  31  6...  3  6 

Levels  of  Arden.     3  vols 31  6  ..<,  4  0 

Brakespeare.  By  the  Author  of  "  Guy  Livingstone."  3  vols,  new  31  6  .«^  3  6 

» — -«»» . ..^-—^  newly  half -hound                ...  5  6 

Brave  Lady,  A.     By  the  Author  of  "  John  Halifax  Gentleman" 

newly  half -hound                .»,  7  6 

Brought  to  Book.  By  H.  Spicer.  2  vis.  (2  vis.  in  1  new;  3s.  6d.)  weiy  21  0...  4  0 

— " "■»"""■'"  — .o..-~-=,  — — '  21  0  ...  1  6 


By  Birth  a  Lady.    By  G.  M.  Fenn.    3  vols.  .,..,.„            ,„  new  31  6..,  5  0 

Bygone  Days.     By  W.  Von  Kugelgen.     3  vols.                   31  6...  3  6 

Canon's  Daughter,  The.     By  R.  H.  Corbet.     2  vols.           ,.o«^. ..  21  0  ...  2  0 

Carr  of  Carrlyon.     By  Hamilton  Aide,  3  vols,  in  1             ,,,  new  31  6  ...  2  0 

Casimir  Maremma.     By  Arthur  Helps.     2  vols.                  21  0  „.  3  6 

Cast  for  a  Crown.     By  H.  Child.     3  vols 31  6...  2  6 

Caught  in  the  Toils.    By  Mrs.  M.  Daniel.     3  vols.             31  6...  2  0 

Cecile.     By  Hawley  Smart.     3  vols.             31  6  ...  5  6 

Charlotte  Burney.    3  vols ...  new  31  6  ...  5  0 

ChristabelKingscote.   By  Emma  Marshall             newly  half-hound  ...  4  6 

Chronicles  of  Golden  Friars.     By  T.  S.  Le  Fanu.     3  vols  ...,,...  31  6...  3  6 

Clara  Delamaine.     By  A.  W.  Cunningham.    3  vols.          31  6  ..«  2  0 

Clare  Savile.     By  Julia  Luard ,,.    newly  half-hound  ...  5  0 

Clarissa.     By  S.  Richardson.     3  vols.            ...    nezvly  half-hound  ...  6  0 

Claude.     By  Lady  Blake.    3  vols.  ... 31  6  ...  2  0 

Co-Heiress.  By  the  Author  of  "Charley  Nugent."  S  vols.     .„  new  31  6...  3  0 

Conneils  of  Castle  Connell.     By  J.  Gordon,     2  vols.     {nen.v  4s.)  21  0  .=,  2  0 

Conscript,  The  :  a  Tale  of  the  French  War  of  1813  {nly.  hf.-hd.  2s.)  ...  1  6 

Cooper's  Novels  in  18  vols.,  cr.  8vo,  cloth      ...  new  ...  37  6 

Contraband :  or,  a  Losing  Hazard.     By  G.  J.  Whyte  Melville. 

2  vols,  {newly  half-hound,  6s.  6d.)  {nenv  5s.  6d.)  21  0  ...  3  6 

Country  House  on  the  Rhine.  ByB.  Auerbach.  Zy oh.  nly.  hf.-hd.  ...  6  0 

Cradock  Nowell.     By  R.  D.  Blackmoie.    3  vols.  ...            31  6  ...  2  6 

Cure  D'Ars,  The.     By  G.  Molyneux.     2  vols,  in  1               ...  2  0 

Cyril  Ashley.     By  A.  L.  0.  E ,.,..            ,„            .........  3  6  ...  1  6 

Daisy  Nichol.     By  Lady  Hardy.     3  vols {new  5s.)  31  6  ...  2  0 

Daisie's  Dream.    3  vols.                 {nenvly  half -hound  5s.  6d.)  new  31  6  ..,  4  6 

Daughter  of  Heth.     By  W.  Black.    3  vols 31  6  ...  8  6 

Detenham's  Vow.     By  A.  B.  Edwards.   3  vols,  newly  half-hound  ...  7  6 

Dene  Hollow.     By  Mrs.  H.  Wood.     3  vole (weio  7s.  6d.)  31  6...  5  6 

Desperate  Remedies.    3  vols 31  6  ...  2  6 

Diamonds  and  Spades.  By  the  Author  of  "The  Gentle  Life  "  new  ...  1  6 

Diana's  Crescent.     By  Author  of  "  Mary  Powell."    2  vols.  ...  10  6  ...  1  6 

2  vols  in  1    ...new  ...  2  6 

Diana  Gay.    By  the  Author  of  "  Two  Fair  Daughters."    3  vols. 

{n&wly  half-hound^  6s.  6d.)  new  31  6  ...  3  6 

Diary  of  a  Novelist 10  6  ...  1  0 


NOVELS. 


23 


Dickens's  Complete  Works.  The  Charles  Dickens'  Edition, 
containing  His  Life,  Speeches,  and  Child's  History  of 
England.     21  vols,  in  15  vols,  half -morocco^  marble  edges 

— — half-calf  extra,  marble  edges 

Purchasers  of  the  above  are  presented  with  a  copy  of  Frith's  Portrait  of 

Oharles  Dickens. 

Dickens's  Works.  Origiijal  Edition,  now  uniformly  printed  in 
demy  8vo,  with  all  the  Original  Illustrations  : —  new 
The  Pickwick  Papers,  43  Illustrations 
Nicholas  Nickleby,  40 
Martin  Chuzzlewit,  40 
Dombey  and  Son,  40 
David  Copperfield,  40 
Bleak  House,  40 

Little  Dorrit,  40 

Sketches  by  Boz,  40 

Our  Mutual  Friend,  40 
Old  Curiosity  Shop,  75 
Barnaby  Budge,  78 

Oliver  Twist,  24 

Tale  of  Two  Cities,      16 


Original 
Published  Price 
s.      d. 


» 
I) 
>» 
I) 
it 
» 

» 
It 
11 

11 


New  Edition 
New  Edition 


F  t-."l-»iX^  4 


««»4»j»««<  I 


^•a**»*«** 


The  above  in  13  vols.,  including  "  Edwin  Drood^^ half-morocco 

Any  of  the  above  can  be  supplied  singly,  bound  half -morocco  extra. 

Dickens,  Charles.     The  Mystery  of  Edwin  Drood    half-morocco 
Disraeli's  Novels.    10  vols,  in  5,  Roxburghe    ...  new 

■" — — — — —     10  vols,  crown  Svo.  '^ew'Eldition  half -calf  new 

half-morocco 


12mo  

Coningsby. 


half-roan,  each 
Contarini  Fleming. 
Venetia. 


,,„  (new,  28.  6d) 

"All    the  Year 


Alroy.  Coningsby.         Ixion. 

HenriettaTemple.  Sybil.  Tancred. 

Vivian  Grey. .         Young  Duke. 
Doctor  of  Beauweir,  The.    2  vols.  1 

■ Harold's  Note  Book.     Reprinted   from 

Bound"  {newly  haV-bound  4s.)  neio 

Donald  Roy.    3  vols,  in  1         ...,,,...  ...  ncxu 

Dorothy  Fox.     By  Louisa  Parr.     3  vols 

Double  Secret,  A,  and  Golden  Pippin.     3  vols (new  48.) 

Dream  Numbers,  The.     By  T.  A.  Trollope.     3  vols,  {new,  4s.  6d.) 

Drawn  from  Life.     By  A.  Forbes.     3  vols 

Dumas's  Novels.     15  vols.     Fcap.  Svo.  half  roan  new 

Dumas,  A.    The  Count  of  Monte  Christo.     Svo.  with  20  page 

Illustrations,  and  Portrait  of  the  Author       ...  nevj 

Dunmara.     By  Ruth  Murray.     3  vols,  in  1    

Duriiton  Abbey.     By  T.  A.  Trollope.     3  vols 

Earl's  Dene.     By  R.  E.  Francillon.     3  vols. 

Edith.     By  C.  A.  Lee.     2  vols ,  .«.«.^,. 

Edgeworth,  Maria.     Tales  of  Fashionable  Life.     4  vols.       new 

Edward's  Wife.     By  Emma  Marshall 

Emigrant's  Wife,  The,  or,  One  in^Ten  Thousand.     3  vols 

Ensemble  (The).  By  theAuthor  of  "TheO.V.H."  Svols.  (n^,5s.) 

-— — — _ — —.  ■■-'- newly  half-bound 

Equal  to  Either  Fortune.    3  vols.    ...  {new  5s.)  newly  half -bound 

Erick  Thorburn.     3  vols.  newly  half-bound 

Esther  Hill's  Secret.     By  G.  M.  Craik.     3  vole,  newly  half  bound 

Even  Betting.     3  vols.  {new  4s.  6d.) 

Eventide.     By  Mrs.  A.  Locke.     3  vols.  

Fairly  Won  ;  or,  the  Heiress  of  Enderleigh.     3  vols 

Fallen  Among  Thieves.     3  vols.          {newly  half-bound  6s,)  new 
Falsely  True.     By  Mrs.  Cashel  Hoey.    3  vols.  {new  4s.  6d.) 

Fatal  Zero.     By  Percy  Fitzgerald.    2  vols ...  new 


6 

31 
31 
31 
31 
31 


31 
31 
21 

5 
31 
31 


31 
31 
31 
31 
31 
21 


Second-hand 

Offered  at 

s.      d. 


...  92     6 
...  92     6 


>     21    0 


6 
6 
0 

0 
6 
6 


6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
0 


...  12  0 

..,  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  12  0 

...  7  0 

.•,7  0 

..,205  0 

...  5  6 

...  15  0 

...  84  0 

...  84  0 

...  1  0 


21  0 


0 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 


2  0 


2 
2 
3 
2 

2 
2 


6 
0 
6 
0 
0 
0 


44  0 

6  0 

1  0 

4  0 

1  6 

2  6 

8  0 

2  6 

4 

2 

6 

5 

6 

7 

2 
3 
3 
5 
2 
3 


6 
6 
0 
6 

0 
6 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


24  W.   H.  SMITH  AND   SON'S  BEDUCED  PRICE  LIST  FOR  MAY. 

Original  Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

Family  Pride.    3  vols.              .........            31  6  ...  1  6 

Fielding's  Novels.    3  vols.    Joseph  Andrews,  Tom  Jones,  and 

History  of  Amelia    neuo  ..«  7  6 

Fenacre  Grange.     By  Langford  Cecil,    3  vols.         (new  4s.  6d.)  31  6  ,,,  2  0 

Fight  of  Faith  (The).    2  vols.    By  Mrs.  B.  0.  Hall            ...  new  21  0  ...  3  0 

.  -.■.... ..  ■ . newly  half-hound  „,  4  0 

Flora  Adair;  or,  Love  Works  Wonders.    2  vole...,            ...new  21  0  ...  2  0 

Florentines,  The.     3  vols.                                  ....— .».  (new  4s.  6d.)  81  6  .„  1  6 

Flower  of  Kildalla,     By  B.  A.  Murray.    3  vols.  ...            31  6  ...  2  0 

Forest  House  and  Catherine's  Lovers.     By  M.  M.  Erokmann- 

Oiatrian  -  3  6  ...  2  0 

Folle  Farine.    By  Ouida.     3  vols.  ...            (wetu,  Ts.  6d.)  31  6...  5  6 

Fool's  Paradise.     By  T.  Archer.    B  vole «...  (nezo  48.  6d.)  81  6  ...  2  0 

For  Lack  of  Q-old.     By  Charles  Gibbon.     3  vols.               ...  new  31  6  ...  4  6 

For  Very  Life.     By  Hamilton  Marshall.     2  vols...                 ..,.,-  21  0...  2  0 

Forsaking  all  Others.     2  vols,  in  1  ...             (new  3s.  6d.)  21  0  ,„  "2  0 

Fortnightly  Review,  Vols.  2,  8,  10,  13,  14,  15,  and  16         ...  each  ...  6  0 

Fortunes  of  Tom  Haswell.     By  Mary  Hayman.     2  vols 21  0  ...  4  6 

Foster  Sisters,  The.     By  E.  B.  Loughnan,  3  vols.                31  6  ,..  2  0 

From  Mayfair  to  Millbank.    3  vols.               ...  new  31  6  ,,,  4  6 

Thistles — Grapes?     By  Mrs.  Eiloart.  3  vols,  nwly.  hlf.-bd.  ...  6  6 

Francesca's  Love.    3  vols.        ....  new  81  6  ...  2  6 

Gage  of  Honour.     3  vols.          .........         (new  4,b.)  31  6  ...  2  0 

Garstangs,   The,   of    Garstang   Grange,      By   T.   A.   Troll  ope. 

3  vols.        newly  half -bound  ...  7  6 

Gerald  Hastings.    By  Author  of  "  No  Appeal."  3  v\b.  (new  bs.)  31  6  ...  2  0 

Giant  Despair.     By  M.  Farrow.    3  vols ...  ne'w  31  6  ...  4  0 

Girl  he  Married,  The.  By  James  Grant.  3  vols,  newly  half-bound  »^  5  & 

Golden  Bait,  The.     By  Henry  HolL     3  vols (new  5s.)  31  6  ...  2  0 

Gold  and  Tinsel.     3  vols.           ,...^,,    (new  4s.  6d.)  31  6  ...  2  6 

Gone  Like  a  Shadow.    3  vols (new  4s.  6d.)*  31  6  ...  2  0 

Grasp  Your  Nettle.     3  vols. ...e...^.             .*-  new  31  6  ...  5  0 

Grainger's  Thorn.     By  J.  Wright.     3  vols 31  6...  6  0 

Grantley  Vivian.     2  vols 21  0  ...  2  0 

Grant's   (James)   Novels   and   Romances.     27   vols.,   12mo,  in 

Roxburghe  binding  new  ...  55  0 

Lady  Wedderbum's   Wish.    3  vols.       -.  new  31  6  ...  5  0 

,newly  half-bound  ,.,  6  0 

Green  Eyed  Monster,  The.     By  Kay  Spen     ,...,,,..  10  6  .,„  1  0 

Greymore.     3  vols. ...  new  31  6  ...  3  6 

Guy  Waterman,  by  John  Saunders.     3  vols 31  6  ,,,  2  6 

Gwendoline's  Harvest.     By  the  Author  of  "  Lost  Sir  Massing- 

berd."     2  vols.  21  0  ...  2  0 

Hagar.    By  the  Author  of  "  St.  Olaves."    d>  vole,  newly  half -bound  ,„  5  6 

Hannah.  By  the  Author  of  "  John  Halifax,  Gentleman."  2  vis.  21  0  ...  6  0 

Harrises,  The.     3  vols.              31  6  ...  2  6 

Harry  Disney.     Edited  by  AthoU  de  Walden.     3  vols.      ...-.»..  31  6  ,„  1  3 

Lorrequer.     By  C.  Lever.    8vo,  Illustrated              ...  new  ...  6  0 

Harvey's,  The.     By  Henry  Kingsley.     2  vols 21  0  ...  5  G 

Hearth  Ghosts.     3  vols.            „ 31  6  ...  3  6 

Hearts  and  Diamonds.     By  E.  P.  Ramsay.     3  vols.           31  6  ,,,  2  0 

Heathfield  Hall   10  6...  2  0 

Hedged  in.     By  E.  S.  Phelps    2  0  ...  1  0 

Heir  Expectant,  The.     3  vols newly  half-bound  „  6  0 

Helen  Cameron.     From  Grub  to  Butterfly.     3  vols.           31  6  ...  6  0 

Henry  Ancrum  :  a  Tale  of  the  Last  War  in  New  Zealand.  2  vol?.  21  0  ...  5  0 

Her  Lord  &  Master.  By  Florence  Marryat.  3  vla.(«/y./i/:-&;ia\7s.6d.)  31  6  ...  3  G 

Hero  Trevelyan.     By  G.  M.  Craik.     2  vols 21  0  ...  3  0 

Her  Title  of  Honour.     By  Holme  Lee 10  6  ...  4  0 


NOVELS. 


Original 
Published  Prico, 


Hetty.     By  Henry  Kingsley     

Hidden  Fire.     3  vols.  =,....... 

Hilary  St.  Ives.     By  W.  H.  Ainswortb. 
Hitherto.     By  Mrs.  A.  D.  T.  Whitney. 


Hollowhill  Farm. 
Home  from  India. 


...  new 
3vols.   ...  

3  vols,  newly  half -bound 

By  J.  Edwardson.    3  vols 

By  J.  Pomeroy.     2   vols (new  3s.) 

■ — — 2  vols,  in  1    (new  2te.  6d.) 

Hotel  du  Petit  St.  Jean,  a  Gascon  Story        

House  of  Cards.     By  Mrs.  C.  Hoey.  3  vis.  newly  half-hnd. 

-- — — -  of  Percival,  The.     By  the  Rev.  T.  C.  Boyce.     3  vols ,, 

How  It  Came  to  Pass.     By  Mrs.  G.  Skelton.     3  vols 

Influence.     By  Mrs.  Brookfield    .......^..  

Inquisitor,  The.  By  the  Author  of  "  Martha."  3  vols,  (new  5s.) 
~— _-.—««»,_—=»., — — — _,.—«-,  newly  half-hound 

In  Spite  of  All.     By  Helen  Boult    ...  ,...  ......... 

In  that  State  of  Life.     By  H.  Aide 

James  Gordon's  Wife.     3  vols 

Jessie's  Expiation.     By  Oswald  Boyle.     3  vols.  ...  ...nciy 

John,  A.  Love  Story.  By  Mrs.  Oliphant.  2  vis.  (nly.  half-hd.  5s.) 
"John  Halifax."     Novels  by  the  Author  of.     5  vols.  cr.  8vo, 

in  Roxburghe,  comprising  : —      new 

Agatha's  Husband.  Head  of  the  Family. 

Ogilvies.  Olive.  Two  Marriages. 

John  Twiller.   A  Romance  of  the  Heart  (new  Is.  6d.) 

Johnny  Robinson.  Author  of  "  The  Great  Unwashed.''  2  vis.  new 
John  Haller's  Niece.    By  R.  Gray.    3  vols.      .,.^.,.  ...  new 

— — ■■    '     '         — —  n&wly  half-bound 

Joshua  Marvel.     By  B.  L.  Farjeon,     3  vols ».,  <.^. 

Just  a  Woman.     By  Mrs.  Eiloart.     3  vols. .., 

Kingsley 's,  Henry.     Popular  Novels,  cr.  8vo,  cloth        each,  new 

Leighton  Court  :  a  Country  House  Story      Stretton 

Recollectionsof  GeofEry  Hamlyn  Austin  Elliot 

The  Hillyars  and  the  Burtons 

Kimberwell  House.     By  R.  Hudson.     3  vols 

Known  to  None  :  a  Village  Romance  

Lady  JudHh.     By  Justin  McCarthy.     3  vols 

Lady  of  Lyndon.     By  Lady  Blake.    3  vols  

Ladye  Shakerley,  The  :  a  Cheshire  Story      .. 

Landlord  of  "the  Sun."  By  W.Gilbert,  a  vis.  (nly.  hf.-hd.bs.M.) 
Leonard  Morris  ;  or,  the  Benedictine  Novice.     By  Betr.  Father 

Ignatius 
Leonora  Casaloni.     By  T.  A.  Trollope.     2  vols.    ...        (new,  3s.) 

— — — —.»-—.- < — -.  2  vols,  in  1    newly  half -hound 

Lever's,  C,  Works.  Railway  Edition.  19  vols,  in  Roxburghe  new 
Lever's  (Charles).  Barrington.  With  26  Illus.  by  Phiz,  cr.  8vo,  cl. 


vols. 

5» 


48 
44 

44 
40 
44 


» 
J) 


The  Daltons.  2  vols. 

Tom  Burke.    2  vols. 

Davenport  Dunn.  2  vols. 

Martins  of  Cro'  Martin. 

Roland  Cashel.    2  vols. 
Life  Guardsman,  The.     By  H.  M.  Walmsley. 
Like  Father  Like  Son.    3  vols. 
Lily  and  the  Rose.     3  vols. 

London  Romance,  A.     By  0.  H.Ross.    3  vols (new  4s.  6d.) 

Lone  Ranche,  The.     By  Captain  Mayne  Reid.     2  vols,  (neio  6s.) 
Lost  Manuscript,  The.    By  Gustav  Freytag.    3  vols.  new 

Lothair.    By  the  Right  Honourable  B.  Disraeli.     First  Edition. 

3  vols,  (scarce)  half-morocco 


^••*«»*»6 


vols. 

(new  4s.  6d.) 
...  new 


a. 

5 
31 
31 

6 
31 
21 
21 
10 
31 
31 
31 
10 
31 

10 
10 
31 
31 
21 


10 
21 
31 

31 
31 

6 


31 
10 
31 
31 
6 
31 

6 
21 


6 

12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
31 
31 
31 
31 
21 
31 


0 
6 
6 

0 
6 
0 
0 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 

6 

6 

6 
0 


Second  Hand 
Offered  at 

...     2 

...     4 

•  •  •  £* 

...     7 
...     3 


6 
0 
6 

6 
6 
0 


G 
G 
6 

0 
6 

0 
0 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 
6 
6 
S 
0 
6' 


1 

XJ 

2 

4 
2 
2 
3 


0 

6 
6 


5  0 
1  6 

1  6 

2  0 

6  0 
2 

3 
1 
2 
G 
'6 


Q 
0 

6 
0 
0 
0 

...  1  3 
...  2  0 
...  3  0 
...     2     6 

...  10    6 


0 
0 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 


7    6 

...  2    6 

...  2     6 

...  G     0 

...  1    6 

...  2    0 

...  2    0 

...  1     3 

...  4     0 

...  50    0 

,..  3    0 

...  6    0 

...  6    0 

...  6 

...  6 
6 

...  2 

e«*  'a* 

•  ••  M 

.,.  2 

...  4 

4 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 
0 
6 
0 


...  14    0 


26  W.  H.    SMITH  AND  SON'S  KEDDOED  PBIOB  LIST  FOB  MAY. 

Original  Second-hand 

Published  Price       Offered  at 

s.  d.            B.  d. 

Lost  Footsteps.    By  J.  Verey.    3  vols.          ...  nev:  31  6  ...     4  6 

Love  and  Valour.     By  Tom  Hood.     3  vols.  ..^~-».             31  6  ...     3  0 

Love  or  Marriage.    3  vols,  (newly  Jialf-hound  5s.  6d.)  {new  58.)  31  6  ...     2  6 

Love  Stories  of  the  English  Watering  Places.  3  vols,      (neio  4s.)  31  6  ...     2  0 

~» — — ^«-                                newly  half-hound  ...     5  6 

Love  the  Avenger.    3  vols ,.,  new  31  6  ...     3  6 

Lover's,  Samuel,  Works.    4  vols.                     half-roxburghe  new  ...  10  0 
Handy  Andy                               Bory  O'More 
Irish  Stories  and  Legends       He  Would  be  a  Gentleman 

Macmillan's  Magazine.    Odd  vols.                  each  ...    2  6 

Mabeldean  :  or,  Christianity  Keversed.  ByOwenGower.  3  vols.  31  6  ...     3  0 

Mad.    By  G.  M.  Fenn.    3  vols {new  48.  6d.)  31  6  ...     2  0 

Mademoiselle  Mathilde.     By  H.  Kingsley.     3  vols.         half-roan  ...     4  0 

Maggie's  Secret.     By  M.  C.  Philpotts.     2  vols.   ...            c. 21  0  ...     2  6 

Malvina.    By  H.  S.  Edwards.    3  vols 31  6  ...     2  0 

Man  and  Wife.   By  Wilkie  Collins.  3  vis.            newly  half-hound  ,,.     7  6 

Margravine, The.  By  W.  G.Craven.  2  vols.  (new)/2/Aa//'-&owwc^ 4s.)  21  0  ...     1  0 

Marked  Man,  The.     By  Frank  Trollope.     3  vols.               31  6...     4  6 

Marquis  and  Merchant.    3  vols (newly  half-hound  6s.)  31  6  ...     2  0 

Marryat,  Captain.     Novels.     13  vols.                              cloth^  nein  ...  33  0 

Martha  Planebarke.    3  vols (new  4s.)  31  6  ...    2  6 

Martyrs  to  Fashion.     By  J.  Verey.     3  vols {new  3s.)  31  6  ,„     2  0 

Miaster,  The,  Passion.  By  the  Author  of  Valentine  Vox  (new  2s.)  ...     1  6 

Maude  Clifford.     2  vols,  in  1                        (newly  half-hound  3s.)  21  0  ...     1  0 

Maurice  Rhynhart.     By  J.  F.  Listado.     2  vols.                   21  0...     2  0 

Maxwell's  Novels.     6  vols.                                          half -roan  neiv  ...  15  0 

Member,  The,  for  Paris.     By  Trois  Efcoiles.     3  vols 31  6   ...     7  6 

Mine  Own  Familiar  Friend.  By  Hon.  Mrs.  A.  Montgomery.  3  vis.  31  6  ...     5  0 

Minister's  Wife,  The.  By  Mrs.  Oliphant.  3  vols.  ne^wZy  MZf-Sown^?  „,     7  6 

Misunderstood.  By  Florence  Montgomery  newly  half-hound  calf  „,     5  6 

Miss  Brown  and  other  Tales.  Illus.  By  R.  B.  Brough  (new  2s.6d.)  ,„     1  6 

Morrices,  The  ;  or,  the  Doubtful  Marriage.  By  G.  T.  Lowth.  3  vis.  31  6  ...     3  6 

Monarch  of  Mincing  Lane.    By  W.  Black.    3  vols.        (new  5s.)  31  6  ...     2  6 

Money's  Worth.     By  Tom  Hood.     3  vols (new?4s.  6d.)  31  6...     2  0 

Mr.  Wynyard's  Ward.     2  vols,  in  1               ...  new  21  0  ..,     3  0 

Mrs.    Gerald's    Niece.       By    Lady    G.    Fullerton.       3    vols. 

(nly  hlf-hnd.la.Gd.)  31  6  ..,     2  0 

My  Enemy's  Daughter.     By  J.  McCarthy                 (new  4s.  6d.)  31  6  ...     2  0 

My  Heroine :  a  Story...             10  6  ...     1  6 

My  Little  Lady.    3  vols 31  6...     2  6 

Myra  Gray.     By  C.  C.  Clarke,    i  y  old.  (ne'uly  half -hound  7  a.  6d.)  31  6  ...     3  6 

Netherton  on  Sea.   By  E.  M.  Alf  ord.    3  vols ...new  31  6  ...     4  6 

Next  Generation,  The.     By  F.  Maguire,  M.P.    3  vols 31  6...     3  0 

Nomads  of  the  North.     By  J.  L.  Hudwen     10  6  ...     3  0 

No  Man's  Friend.    3  vols.         ..,,.....            ...  newly  half-hound  31  6  ...     5  0 

Nora.     By  Lady  E.  Ponsonby.    3  vols.          31  6  ...     2  0 

Nora  and  Archibald  Lee.    3  vole ,..»^»,...         (new  Zb.)  31  6  ...     2  0 

Normans,  or,  Kith  and  Kin.     By  A.  H.  Drury.    2  vols 21  0  ,p.     3  0 

Not  too  Late.    2  vols.                           (newly  half -hound  4s.)  n&w  21  0  ...     4  0 

Not  to  Be.    2  vols.      ...            (n^w  3s.)  21  0...     1  6 

^ 2  vols,  in  1             ...  new  ...     3  0 

Not  in  Vain.    2  vols....            (new  4^6.)  21  0...     1  6 

«««.^..- »    2  vols,  in  1 (new  3s.6d.)  21  0  ^     2  0 

Not  Time's  Fool.     By  Morley  Farrow.    3  vols.         (new  3s.  6d.)  31  6  ...     2  0 

— '            ...>— ^. — — ..^.«»: "'-'^-^'-''-^ne'ivly  lialf -hound  ...     4  6 

Not  While  She  Lives.     By  Mrs.  A.  Fraser.    2  vols.           ...new  21  0  ...     4  0 

— ■ — -    2  vols 21  0  ...     2  0 

Ob eron  Spell.     By  E.  St.  Leonards.    3  vols. (new?  48.  6 d.)  31  6...     2  0. 

Oldbury.     By  Annie  Keary.    3  vols.                   newly  half-hound  ...     7.6 


NOVELS.  27 

OriCTnal      Second-Hand 
Published  Price      Offered  at 

Occupation  of  a  Retired  Life.   By  Author  of  "  Crust  and  Cake." 

3  vols,  (newly  half-hound^  5s.)   {new  4s.)  31     6  ...  2  0 

Old  as  the  Hills.     By  D.  M.  Ford.    3  vols 31     6  ...  2  0 

Old  Ledger,  The.     3  vols ...  new  31     6  ...  3  6 

Old  Margaret.     By  Henry  Kingsley.    2  vols 21     0  ...  2  6 

Old  Town  Folks.     By  H.  B.  Stowe.    3  vols.       newly  half -hound  ...  7  6 

Once  a  Week.     Vols.  4  and  6.     New  Series    ea^h  ,,,  4  0 

One  Maiden  Only.     By  E.  C.  Tainsh.     3  vols.  ......             31     6...  1  6 

Only  a  Commoner.     By  Henry  Morrow.     3  vols.                31     6  ...  1  6 

Only  Herself.     By  Annie  Thomas.     3  vols,  in  1                 ...  new  31     6  „,  4  0 

Only  an  Ensign.     By  James  Grant.     3  vols 31     6  ,,,  4  0 

Only  to  be  Married.  By  Mrs.  F.  Williamson.  3  vols,            ...  weio  31     6...  3  6 

One  of  Two.     By  Hain  Friswell.     3  vols 31     6  ...  2  0 

On  the  Eve :  a  Tale.     By  Ivan  S.  TourguehefE                   4     6  ...  2  6 

Oswald  Cray.     By  Mrs.  H.  Wood     ...             ...  n&uo  6    0  ...  3  6 

Ought  We  to  Visit  Her  ?     By  Mrs.  Edwards.     3  vols 31     6  ...  7  6 

Out  of  the  Meshes.     3  vols.          {newly  half -hound  ^b.)  (new  ^b.)  31     6  ...  2  0 

0.  V.  H.  The.     By  Wat  Brad  wood.     3  vols.       newly  half -hound  ...  6  6 

Parson  Annaly.     Story  of.     By  R.  S.  Brooke,  D.D.             5     6  ...  3  0 

Patty.     By  K.  S.  Macquoid.     2  vole.              21     0...  7  6 

Patience  Caerhydon.  By  the  Author  of  "  Olive  Varcoe."  3  vols. 

(newly  hal^-hound  5s.  6d.)  (new  4s  6d,)  31     6  ,„  2  0 

Paul  Foster's  Daughter.     By  Dutton  Cook   5     0  ...  1  0 

Paul  Wynter's  Sacrifice.     3  vols.                   ...  newly  half -hound  ...  5  0 

Percy's  Wife        10     6  ...  1  6 

Perfect  Treasure,  A ...  newly  half-hound  ,„  3  0 

Perversion  :   or,  The  Causes  and  Consequences  of  Infidelity 

3  vols,  new  31    6  ...  4  0 

Petronel.    By  Florence  Marry  at.     3  vols.           newly  half -hound  ,,.  7  0 

Peerless  Wife,  A.     By  Mrs.  H.  S.  Mackamess.     3  vols 31     6  ...  2  6 

Polly,  a  Village  Portrait.     2  vols.   ...             21     0...  2  0 

Poor  Humanity.     3  vols.                                  ...  newly  half -hound  ,,,  6  0 

Prey  of  the  Gods,  The.    By  Florence  Marryat.    3  vols,  (new  Gs.)  31     6  ...  5  0 

Private  Inquiry.     By  C.  H.  Ross.     3  vols (new  5s.)  31     6  ...  2  0 

Prodigy,  A.     By  H.  F.  Chorley.     3  vole.          newly  half-hound  ,„  5  6 

.- ^.^ „ -.■■■    ,„ — -       ...  new  31    6  ...  4  0 

Put  Yourself  in  His  Place.  By  C.  Reade.  3  vols,  newly  half -hound  ,,,  7  6 

Queen's  Sailors,  The.     By  E.  Greey.     3  vols (new  4s.  6d.)  31     6  ...  2  6 

Ralph  Skirlaugb.     By  E.  Peacock.     3  vols 31     6  ...  7  6 

Ralph  the  Heir.     By  A.  Trollope.     3  vols.     (The  New  Comedy 

Shilly  Shally  "  is  founded  on  this  Story)     {new  Is.  6d)  31     6  ...  5  6 

■               — — — — —          newly  half-hound  ...  8  6 

Raymond.    By  H.  Moreland.    3  vols,  in  1    ...  new  31     6  ,,,  2  6 

Ready  Made  Family,  A.     3  vols 31     6...  G  0 

Realmah.    By  the  Author  of  "  Friends  in  Council."    2  vols. 

newly  halj -hound  calf  ...  8  0 

Red  as  a  Rose  is  She.     3  vols.                               newly  half -hound  ...  8  6 

Restored.     By  the  Author  of  "  Son  and  Heir."     3  vols 31     6...  5  0 

Riddles  of  Love.    By  S.  L.  Blanchard.    3  vols.                 31     6  ...  3  0 

■" ■            newly  half -hound  ,,,  5  6 

Riddell,  Mrs.     A  Life's  Assize.    3  vols (new  Ss.)  31     6  ...  2  6 

— — i                   newly  half-hound  ...  6  0 

— — —    Maxwell  Drewitt (net(>  2s.  6d.)  .►.  2  0 

— — — — — . —    Phemie  Keller.    3  vols.               newly  half -hound  .„  5  6 

1  vol.           ........   (new  2s.  6d.)  ...  2  0 


— — — —    Rich  Husband(ne«/Zy  A«?/-6oMnfZ5s.)  (new?  2s.  6d.)  ,.,  2  0 

— — —  — Austin  Friars.  3  vl8.(n(2icZy^«?/-McZ.  6s.)  (new  5s.)  31     6...  2  0 

Right  at  Last :  and  other  Tales  ,            ...  2  0 

Righted  Wrong.     By  E,  Yate?.     3  vols.             neivly  half-hound  ...  7  6 


Jg  W.   H.   SMITH   AND   SON'S  REDUCED   PRICE   LIST   FOR   MAY. 

Original       Seccmd-Hand 

Published  Price.      Oifered  at 

8,    d,  s,    d, 

Robert  Lynne.     By  Mary  Bridgman.    2vols.ini              „.  new  21  0...  3  0 

„ —    2  vols (newSe.)  21  0...  1  3 

Kock,  Ahead,  The.     By  E.  Yates      ...             ...  nevjly  half -hound  *.,  6  6 

Romance  of  a  (Garret.     By  8.  Whiting.    2  vols.                  ...  new  21  0  .„  2  6 

Eookstone.     By  the  Author  of  "  Hester  Kirton."     3  vols  .,..,•...  31  6...  2  € 

Kose  and  the  Key.    By  J.  S.  Le  Fann.     3  vols.  ... 31  6...  6  0 

Rossetti,  0.  G.     Gommonplace  and  Other  Stories.             7  6  ..,  3  6 

Sacristan's  Household.     2  vols 21  0...  2  (5 

Saint  Abe  and  hie  Seven  Wives  :  a  Tale  of  Salt  Lake  City       ...  5  0  ...  3  0 

Saint  Paul's  Magazine.     Odd  Vols. ...  each  ...  2  6 

Sapphire  CroBS,  The.     By  G.  M.  Fenn.     3  vols.  ...             ..=  ..=,..  31  6,..  3  6 

SarchedoD,  A.    Legend  of  the  Great  Queen.     By  G.  J.  Whyte 

Melville,    3  vols.  (»e«?,  6s )  31  6  ...  4  0 

Schooled  with  Briars  ...            6,.....»«             ....»*.«»            ,,, ,  10  6  ...  1  0 

Scott's  Novels.    The  Centenary  Edition.     25  vols,  crown  8vo 

h'alf -calf  extra  ...126  0 

' "— ««— = — —  4  vols.,  8vo  ...  new  ...  21  0 

.^^^_ ■     I                                              half -calf  extra  ...  25*  0 

Seadrift.     By  Lady  Wood.     3  vols. 31  6...  3  0 

Second  Mrs.  TillotsoD.     By  P.  Fitzgerald.  3  vole.  w€M?Zy  7iaZ/'.-<5f?.  ...  7,  6 

Secret,  The,  of  Happiness.    By  Ernest  Freydeau.     2  vols,     new  ...  2  6 

Sefton  HaU.    2  vols,  in  1 (new  3s.  6d.)  21  0  ...  2  0 

Sentenced  by  Fate.     By  S.  Eyre.  3  vols .„.«.,,  31  6...  2  6 

Shellburn.    By  A.  Leighton      10  6  ...  1  0 

Shoemaker's  Village.     By  H.  Holbeach.     2  vols.               16  0...  4  0 

Shooting  Stars.    3  vols,  in  1    „.  new  31  6...  3  0 

Sidney  Bellew.     By  F.  Francis.    2  vols,  in  1                   (new  3s.)  21  0  ...  1  3 

Silent  Jim  :  a  Cornish  Story.    By  James  F.  Cobb              3  6  ...  1  6 

Simple  as  a  Dove.    3  vols ...,.             ...new  31  6  ...  3  6 

Siren  A.     By  T.  A.  TroUope.    3  vols.         (newly  half-bound  6s,)  31  6  ...  2  0 

Sister  May.  By  the  Author  of  "  Margaret's  Engagement."  3  vis.  31  6...  3  6 
Smedley's,  F.  B.,  Novels:— 

Harry  Coverdale's  Courtship,  and  all  that  came  of  it.    With 

Illustrations  by  "  Phiz."  8vo,  cloth 14  0  ...  6  0 

Lewis  Arundel ;  or,  the  Railroad  of  Life.     With  Illustrations 

by  "  Phiz."  Svo,  cloth   ...new  16  0...  6  0 

Frank  Fairlegh ...  new  14  0  ...  6  0 

Smedley's  Novels.    4  vols.,  cloth    ... ,..  new  ...  14  0 

Six  Months  Hence.     3  vols 31  6  ...  2  0 

Smith,  Albert.    Novels.    4  vols.    ...              ...new  ...  10  0 

Snapt  Gold  Ring.     By  F.  Wedmore.    2  vols 21  0  ...  1  6 

Snooded  Jessaline.  By  Mrs.  T.  K.  Hervey.  3  vis.  in  1           ...new  31  6...  2  6 

^ — - — — —  n£wly  half -hound  ...  4  0 

So  Runs  the  World  Away.    By  Mrs.  Steele.    S  vols.          ...new  31  6...  4  0 

Son  of  the  SoiL    2  vols (new  28.  6d.)  21  0  ...  2  0 

Sowing  the  Wind.    By  Author  of  *' Lizzie  Lorton."  3  vis.  (new?  4s.)  31  6  ,„  2  0 

Sooner  or  Later.    By  Shirley  Brooke.    2  vols 21  0...  6  0 

* .— — — — ' 2  vols  in  1             •..••^,  ...  7  0 

Squire  Arden.     By  Mrs.  Oliphant.     3  vols 31  6  ...  3  6 

Stern  Necessity.     3  vols.           newly  half-hound  ...  6  0 

Steven  Lawrence.     By  Mrs.  Edwards.     3  vols,    newly  half-hound  ...  5  0 

St.  Michael's  Priory.    By  Mary  Mudie.    2  vols.  ...            21  0  ...  1  6 

Story  of  Alec  Drummond  of  the  17th  Lancers.  3  vols.       ...  new  31  6  ...  3  0 

Story  of  Waldemar  Krone's  Youth.  H.'F.  Ewald.  2  vols.     ...new  21  0...  2  0 

Strange  Work.     By  Thomas  Archer.    3  vols ...  new  31  6  ...  4  6 

~ — — — — — — . — — newly  half -hound  ...  6  0 

Stretton.     By  H.  Kingsley.     3  vols.                     newly  half -hound  ...  6  0 

Stropg  Hands  and  Steadfast  Hearts.     3  vols .........  31  6  ...  2  0 


NOVELS.  29 

Original       Second-Hand 

Published  Prioe      Offered  at, 

•                                          -  s.     d.  s.  d. 

Success.     By  G.  Prole,  3  vols ...new  31     6...  3  0 

Sundered  Lives.     By  Wybert  Reeve.     3  vols.      ...             31     6  ...  3  6 

Sun  and  Shade.  By  the  Author  of  "  Ursula's  Love  Story."  3  vis.  31     6  ...  3  0 

Susan  Fielding.     3  vols.             ....  newly  half -bound  ...  7  6 

Straggles  of  Brown,  Jones,  and  Robinson      3     6  ...  2  0 

Sylvestres,  The.    By  M.  B.  Edwards.     3  vols 31     6  ...  2  6 

Tales  of  the  North  Riding.     By  Stephen  Yorke.     2  vols 21     0...  1  6 

Tangled  Weft.    Two  Stories.     By  M.  L.  Doyle                   ...new  10     6...  1  0 

Terrible  Temptation  :  a  Story  of  the  Day.     By  C.  Reade.  3  vis.  31     6  ...  5  6 

-. new  31     6  ...  7  6 

Thackeray,  Miss.   To  Esther,  and  other  Sketches  {nhj.  bud.  cl.  Gs.)  ...  4  6 

Theo  Leigh.     3  vols,                  ..^...^..            ...new  31     6  ...  4  6 

Theresa.     By  Noell  Radcliffe.     3  vols.            ...  newly  half-bound  ...  5  6 

Three  Brothers,  The.    By  Mrs.  Oliphant.    ^  yoIb.  nly.  half -bound  ...  7  6 

Three  Chances,  The.     3  vols. (new  3s.)  31     6...  2  0 

Three  Weddings,  The.   By  the  Author  of  "  Dorothy "       5     0  ...  2  0 

Thrice  Dead.     3vol8.ini        ...  .....            ...new  31     6  ...  3  0 

Thyra  Gascoigne.     By  Mrs  E.  Jenings.     3  vols.                ...  new  31     6  ...  3  0 

Title  and  Estate.     By  F.  Lancaster.     3  vols-       ...                .  31     6...  2  6 

Trollope's  (A  )    Phineas  Finn.    With  20  Illustrations  by  Fraser. 

8vo,  cloth  ...  6  0 

=^„-^ . — -     WithSlllus.     Cr.  8 vo,  cloth /or  ...  4  6 

He  Knew  He  was  Eight.     Crown  8vo,  cloth /or  ...  4  6 

=<«=». ■            With  Illus.  8vo,  cioth  ,,.  d  0 

8vo     half  calf  ...  3  6 


Can  You  Forgive  Her?  With  43  Hlus.Svo,  cloth  ...  GO 

Ralph  the  Heir.     With  17  Illusts.    8vo,  cloth  ...  G  0 

(The  New  Comedy  Shilly  Shally"  is  founded  on  this  Story) 

^ — : "— ^ ■    3  vols.  (/?eio  7s.  6d.)  31     6...  5  G 

; — .n.— .Works.   Rail.Edition,boundinRoxburghe.  15vi8.?i(?w;  ..  42  0 

An  Editor's  Tales    10     6  ...  1  0 

Sir  Harry  Hotspur.    Best  Edition     .              .........  10     6  ...  2  0 


Toilers  of  the  Sea.     By  Victor  Hugo.     3  vols,  neivly  half-bound  ...  7  6 

Tom  Pippin's  Wedding              .< 6  0...  1  0 

Too  Bright  to  Last :  a  Love  Story.     By  Alice  Fisher         9  0...  2  0 

Too  Much  and  Too  Little  Money.    2  vols,  in  1  {new  4s.)  ...  1  6 

.-^ .„-_™.„ — 2  vols 21  0  ...  i  6' 

Tregarthen  Hall.     By  James  Gailand.     3  vols.    ...             .........  31  6  ...  6  0 

True  to  Herself.  By  F.  W.  Robinson.  3  vols,   ne-^vly  half -bound  ...  6  0 

True  to  the  Life.    3  vols.           ...  (newly  half-bound  7s.  6d.)  new  31  6  ...  4  6 

Twice  Refused.    2  vols,  in  1     (new  3s.  6d.)  21  0  ...  1  6 

Two  Plunges  for  a  Pearl.    By  Mortimer  Collins.     3  vols 31  6  ...  5  0 

Two  Rubies,  The.     3  vols (weM?4s.  6d.)  31  6...  2  0 

Two  Marriages.     2  vols,  in  1                         newly  half-bound  calf  ...  7  6 

Two  Fair  Daughters.     By  Percy  Fitzgerald.     3  vols ,..  31  6  ...  3  0 

Under  Lock  and  Key.    3  vols ...  new  31  6  ...  5  0 

Up  and  Down  the  World.    By  R.  Gray.    3  vols....  (ticwj  3s.  6d.)  31  6...  2  6 

Value  of  Fosterstown.    By  A.  M.  Donelan.     2  vols 21  0...  1  6 

Vera.    By  the  Author  of  "  Hotel  du  Petit  St.  Jean "         10  6...  1  6 

Verey,  J.     Open  Air ;  or,  Sketches  Out  of  Town...         (neu?  28.)  10  6  ...  1  0 

Veronica.    3  vols.                        {newly  half-bound  5s.)  {nerw^  Ss.)  31  6  ...  2  0 

Victory,  The,  of  the  Vanquished .=             6  6  ...  2  0 

Village  of  the  West,  The.     By  R.  W.  Baddeley.     3  vol? 31  6...  2  6 

Viola.     By  the  Author  of  "Pearl."     3  vols.       newly  half -bound  ...  6  6 

Visit  to  my  Discontented  Cousin 7  6  ...  2  0 

Vivian  Romance,  The.    By  M.  Collins.    3  yoIs.  newly  half -hound  ...  5  6 

Warp  and  Woop.    By  Holme  Lee.    3  vols ...new  31  6  ...  4  6 

We  Girls.    By  A.  D.  T.  Whitney                   3  6  ...  1  6 

Who  Dotes  yet  Doubts.    By  the  Author  of  "  Belial  "       19  6...  4  G 


30 


W.    H.   SMITH   AND   SON'S  EEDUCED   PRICE   LIST   FOR  MAY, 


Original      Second-Hand 
Published  Price      Offered  at 


Wide  of  the  Mark.     3  vols 

Wild  as  a  Hawk.     3  vols.  

Woman  of  Business.    3  vols 

Woman's  Way.     3  vols.  

Wortlebank  (The)  Diary.    By  Holme  Lee. 
Wrecked  in  Port.     By  E.  fates.     3  vols. 


3  vols. 


...  new 
{neiv  5s.) 

...  new 
(new  5s.) 

...  new 


Wy  vern  Mystery,  The.  By  J.  S.  Le  Fanu.  3  vols,  newly  half -hound 

Young  Earl.     2  vols newly  half-hound 

Your  Cousin's  Ghost.     By  Mrs.  Wilkin 


.s 
31 
31 
31 
31 
31 
31 


d. 

6  , 
6  . 
6  , 
6  . 
6  , 
6  . 


7     6 


3 
4 
2 
3 
2 
5 
6 
3 
2 


d. 

6 
6 
0 
0 
6 
0 
0 
6 
0 


MA&AZIIE  LIST,  MAT,   1872.  . 


Belgravia  Magazine.     1871.     Jan.  to  Dec 

.-____ .-    1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March 

Blackwood's  Magazine.      1871.     Jan.  to  Dec 

_„.__^ 1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March 

British  Quarterly.     1871.     July  and  Oct 

Contemporaiy  Review.     1871.     March  to  Dec 

1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March 

Cornhill  Magazine.      1871.     Jan.  to  Dec 

1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March 

Dark  Blue.     1871.     Sept.  to  Dec.     ...  

— ^ 1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March    

Edinburgh  Eeview.    1869.    Jan.,  April,  Oct 

1870.     Jan.  April,  July,  Oct. 

— — -=~ — —     1871.     Jan.,  Anril,  July,  Oct. 

1872.     Jan.    ..'....  

Fortnightly.     1871.     Jan.  to  Dec.  

1872.     Jan.,  Feb  and  March 

Eraser's  Magazine.    1871.     Jan.  to  Dec 

— 1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March 

Gentleman's  Magazine.     1871.     March  to  Dec.    ... 

— 1872.     Jan.  Feb.  and  March 

London  Society.     1871.     March  to  Dec,         ......o., 

, 1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March    ... 

Macmillan's  Magazine.     1871.     Jan.  to  Dec 

—     1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March 

New  Monthly.     1871.     May,  June,  July,  &  Dec.  ... 

Quarterly  Eeview.     1869.     Jan.,  April,  Oct 

1870.     Jan.,  July  and  Oct. 

— — 1871.     Jan.,  April,  July,  Oct. 

■————-^—^ ""—•"•     i.oi/i.     ti an.  ,jrt ......... 

EevueDesDeuxMondes.  1871.   Jan.,  May,  July,  Nov. 

1872.   Jan.,  Feb.  and  March 

St.  James's.     1871.     Julv,  Aug.,  Sept.  to  Dec 

St.  Paul's.     1871.     Jan.  to  Dec 

1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March       

Temple  Bar.     1871.     Jan.  to  Dec.  

— 1872.     Jan.,  Feb.  and  March    

Tinsleys'  Magazine.     1871.     Jan.  to  Dec 

' 1872.     Jan,  Feb.  and  March 

Westminster  Eeview.     1871.     April,  July  and  Oct. 
1872.     Jan.  ..  


Orig 

inal 

Liby.  coTjie^ 

Published  Price        Offered  a^ 

s. 

d. 

8.     d- 

...each 

1 

0  ... 

0     6 

...  each 

1 

0  ... 

0     6 

...each 

2 

6  ... 

0  10 

...  each 

2 

6  ... 

1    0 

...  each 

6 

0  ... 

1     6 

...each 

2 

6  ... 

1     3 

...  each 

2 

6  ... 

1    3 

...each 

1 

0  ... 

0    5 

..  each 

1 

0  ... 

0    S 

...each 

1 

0  ... 

0    6 

1 
6 

0  ... 
0  ... 

0    G 

...each 

0    9 

...each 

6 

0  ... 

0  10 

...each 

6 

0  ... 

1     0 

6 
2 

0  ... 
0  ... 

1     6 

...each 

0  10 

...  each 

2 

0  ... 

1    0 

...each 

2 

6  ... 

0  10 

...  each 

2 

6  ... 

1     0 

...each 

1 

0  ... 

0    5 

...  each 

1 

0  ... 

0    6 

...each 

1 

0  ... 

0    6 

„..  each 

1 

0  ... 

0    6 

...each 

1 

X 

0  ... 

0    5 

. . . each 

1 

0  ... 

0    6 

...each 

3 

6  ... 

1    0 

...each 

6 

0  ... 

0    G 

...each 

6 

0  ... 

0  10 

...each 

6 

0  ... 

1    0 

6 
3 

0  ... 
0  .., 

1    Q 

...each 

1    0 

...each 

3 

0  ... 

1     3 

...each 

0  ... 

0    6 

. . .  each 

0  ... 

0    5 

...each 

0  ... 

0    6 

. . , each 

0  ... 

0    5 

...each 

0  ... 

0    6 

. . .  each 

0  ... 

0    5 

...each 

0  ... 

0    6 

...each 

6 

0  ... 

1    6 

6 

0  ... 

2    0 

N  E  W     BOO K  S . 

The  LIBRARY  EDITION  of  the  AVorks  of  Alfred  Tennyson, 

D.C.L.,  Poet-Laureate.     Vol.  IIL     Post  8vo.     lOs.  6d. 

THIRD    EDITION. 

NOTES  on  ENGLAND.     By  H.  Taine/ D.C.L.,  Oxen,  &c. 

Translated  by  W.   F.  RAE,  with  an  Introduction  by  the  Translator.     Keprinted,  with 
Additions,  from  the  Daily  Neivs.     Post  8vo.     7s.  6d. 

*' A  brief  review  can  do  but  scanty  justice  to  M.  Taine's  book.     "We  can  only  deal  with  it  in  its  broad 

results,  while  its  charm  lies  in  its  detail Even  were  France  more  prolific  of  literature  than  it  is  at 

the  moment,  no  one  should  neglect  to  read  these  letters  in  their  collected  form."  —  Times. 

"This  volume  possesses  great  value  as  a  rapid,  succinct,  comprehensive  sketch  and  critical  survey  of 
our  English  society  and  institutions.  Even  those  who  have  made  a  careful  study  of  their  country  will 
be  benefited  by  the  perusal  of  a  book  like  this,  where  the  whole  field  of  English  life  is  brought,  as  it  were, 
within  the  compass  of  a  glanca." — Examiner. 

'  "Mr.  Rae  has  rendered  M.  Taine's  masterly  French  into  the  most  delicate,  lithe,  and  racy  English;  so 
that  the  book  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  recent  additions  to  this  class  of  English  literature." 

British  Quarterly  Review. 

THIRD  and  REVISED  EDITION. 

SAINT   ABE  and  HIS    SEVEN  WIVES :  a  Tale  of  Salt 

Lake'City.     Crown  8vo.    53. 

"Such  vigorous,  racy,  determined  satire  has  not  been  met  with  for  many  a  long  day The  work  is 

jnasterly.' ' — Graphic. 

"  It  takes  possession  of  our  admiration  as  of  right." — Pall  Mall  Gazette. 

■"  Amazingly  clever Besides,  its  pure  tone  deserves  commendation. — Nonconformist, 

"  None  who  read  '  Saint  Abe ', can  fail  to  be  amused  and  gratified." — Daily  News. 

PEASANT    LIFE    in   the    NORTH.      By   the   Author   of 

"  Benoni  Blake."     Second  Series.     Crown  8vo.      9s. 

"  Every  page  has  some  graphic  touch  more  of  less  striking.  In  the  midst  of  so  much  sickly  and  unnatural 
trash  which  goes  under  the  name  of  novel-writing,  a  book  like  this  comes  as  a  real  godsend." 

Saturday  Revitw,  on  the  First  Series. 

EIOHT    MONTHS   on   DUTY.     The   Diary   of  a  Yoimg 

Officer  in  Chanzy's  Army.     With  a  Preface,  by  C.  J.  VAUGHAN,  D.D.,  Master  of  the 
Temple.     Small  8vo.  [In  a  fe  v  Days. 

The  DAYS  of  JEZEBEL :  a  Drama.    By  Peter  Bayxe,  M.  A. 

Small  8vo.  {Immediately. 

The   HUMAN   INTELLECT,   with    an   Introduction  npon 

Psychology    and   the    Soul.     By   NOAH   PORTER,   D.D.,   President   of  Yale  College. 
Demy  8vo.  [In  the  Press. 

The    ELEMENTS    of    INTELLECTUAL    SCIENCE:    a 

Manual  for  Schools  and  Colleges.  By  NOAH  PORTER,  D.D.,  President  of  Yale  College. 
Demy  8vo.  [In  the  Press. 

TOTTIE'S   TEIAL.     By  Kay  Spen,  Author   of  ''  True  of 

Heart,"  kc.     Crown  8vo.     10s.  6d. 

TAVILIGHT    HOUES.     A   Legacy   of  Verse.      By   Sarah 

WILLIAMS  (Sadie).     Third  and  Enlarged  Edition.     Crown  Svo.  5s. 

"  If  we  go  on  extracting  all  that  seems  to  us  the  product  of  true  genius  in  this  volume,  we  should  print 
nearly  half  of  it,  and  we  should  have  to  do  so  merely  to  show  the  strking  variety  of  mood  and  poetical 
conception  it  contains." — Spectator. 

CHARACTER   SKETCHES.     By  Norman  Macleod,  D.D. 

Post  Svo.    With  Illustrations.    lOs.  6d. 

"  They  are  sure  to  be  most  welcome  to  all  who  can  appreciate  a  broad,  genial  humanity,  mingled^with 
much  pathos  and  a  keen  insight  into  the  deeper  workings  of  the  human  soul." — Daily  Telegraph. 

FLOWERS    and    GARDENS:    Notes    on    Plant    Beauty. 

By  FORBES  WATSON,  M.R.C.S.     Crown  Svo.    5s. 

*'  A  better  book  for  all  persons  interested  in  flowers  and  gardens  there  cannot  be.  "With  his  great 
powers  of  description,  his  deep  poetic  vein  of  feeling,  his  accurate  observation,  and,  above  all,  his 
originality  and  thorough  independence  of  thought,  Dr.  Forbes  Watson,  had  hts  life  been  spared,  must  have 
obtained  a  very  high  position  as  a  writer  on  Nature." — Westminster  Review. 

STK^A.H^1V     find     Co.,    SO,    LXJr>G;^ATJE     HILL. 


TINSLEYS'  MAGAZINE 

^N    ILLXJSTK^TIi]D    MOISTTHLY, 
PRICE    ONE    SHILLING. 


LONDON'S    HEART. 

By  the  Author  of  "Grif,"   "Joshua  Marvel,"  and  "  Blade-o'-Grass." 

UNDER  THE   RED    DRAGON. 

By  Jambs  Grant,  author  of  "  The  Romance  of  War,"  "  Onlj  an  Ensign,"  &c. 

HOME   SWEET   HOME. 

A  new  Serial  Story. 

MUSICAL     RECOLLECTIONS    OF    THE     LAST 

HALF  CENTURY. 

ESSAYS    AND   ARTICLES    BY    POPULAR 

AUTHORS. 


VEGETABLE  GHAEOOAL, 

OR  PURE  CARBON, 

Ib  one  of  the  most  e£Eectual  preservers  of  Health  ever  offered  to  the  public.  In 
the  bowel  disorders  of  Children,  as  well  as  in  weak  digestion  of  Adults,  Bragg's 
Vegetable  Charcoal  and  Charcoal  Biecuits  are  found  by  their  action  to  absorb 
all  impure  gases  in  the  stomach  and  bowels,  and  thereby  are  also  invaluable  in 
cases  of  yellow  and  other  fevers,  and  afford  speedy  relief  to  sufferers  from 
acidity,  bile,  impure  breath,  flatulency,  gout,  &c.  The  Biscuits  sold  in  tins,  Is., 
2s.,  4s.,  and  8s.  each ;  pure  Carbon,  in  bottles,  2s.,  4s.,  and  6s.  each,  by  all 
Chemists, 

AND  BY 

J  .      L        IB    lEl    A.    Gr    Gr  , 

19,  WIGMORE  STREET,  CAVENDISH  SQUARE. 


THE  NEW  PAPER  FOR  THE  SEASON 


I*i-ice   Sis^zpence,  TTeelily. 


WITH    VARIOUS   KINDS    OF 


MUSICAL,    AETISTIC,     PHOTOGEAPHIC     AND 

FLORAL   SUPPLEMENTS. 


6d.  Weekly, 


TH 


rtASss 


Illustrated. 


A  Journal  of  tlie  Court,  rasHon, 
and  Society. 


A  handsome  well-written  Weekly  Paper  for  every  Home  of  Culture,  Taste, 
and  Refinement.  With  Engravings  of  the  greatest  public  excellence  by 
Artists  of  England,  France,  Germany,  Belgium,  and  the  United  States. 
A  Combination  and  Selection  of  the  News,  Novels,  Fashion,  and  Literature 
of  the  Civilised  World,  with  Original  Articles  on  Topics  of  Special  and 
General  interest. 

Specimen  Numher,  Post-free,  Seven  Stamps. 


SUBSCRIPTIONS: 

Yearly,   £1  8s. ;    Half- Yearly,    14s.  ;    Quarterly,  7s. 


POST   OFFICE   ORDERS   TO  BE   MADE   PAYABLE  TO 


G.     T.    TliTLEI^: 


OFFICE:'    3,    AMEiN    CORNER,    PATERNOSTER    ROW. 

Sold  at  all  Railway  Bookstalls. 


A  COMPLETE  PEEMG-E  EOR  EIYE  SHILLII&S 


The  Peerage,  Baronetage,  Knightage,  and 
House  of  Commons  for  1872, 


EDITED    BY 


FELLOW  OF  BALLIOL  COLLEGE,  OXFORD,  EDITOR  OF  "THE  COUNTY  FAMILIES,"  ETC. 

OoMiplete  ill  One  Volu-iixe. 

Half-bound,  with  Edges  Coloured  in  Divisions   to  facilitate  Reference, 

PRICE   FIVE   SHILLINGS. 


ALSO  BY  THE  SAME  AUTHOR, 

The  Shilling  Peerage,  1872 ;   Shilling  Baronetage,  1872  \ 
Shilling  Knightage,    1872;    and   Shilling   House   of 

Commons,   1872, 


AT    ALL    THE    RAILWAY    STATIONS. 


ii 


THE     GARDEN," 


A  Weekly  Illustrated  Journal   devoted  Solely  to  Horticulture  in  all  its 

Branches. 


OPINIONS    OF    THE    PRESS. 

"  The  name  of  Mr.  Robinson  as  Editor  was  tons  a  sufficient  guarantee  for  The  Gaeden  ;  but  we  must 
admit  tbe  excelipnce  oi'  the  paper  exceeds  our  exjoectations.  The  illustrations  would  hold  their  own 
with  those  of  the  oest  pictorial  gift-books,  while  the  letter-press  abounds  in  useful  Infonnation,  con- 
veyed in  simple  and  pleasant  language.  It  needs  no  prophet  to  predict  prosperity  for  so  admirable  a 
periodical."— i^im. 

"Mr.  Robinson  has  completely  realised  the  ambitious  programme  with  which  his  set  out.  The  "  prim- 
rose promise"  of  its  first  number  is  thoroughly  sustained,  and  nowhere  else  is  there  to  be  found  such 
sparkling,  lively  writing,  illustrated  by  such  gems  of  the  wood  engravers  a.vi"— Liverpool  Albion. 

THE  GARDEN  is  conducted  by  WiLLiAM  ROBINSON,  F.L.S.,  Author  of  ''Hardy  Flowers,"" 
"Alpine  Flowers  for  English  Gardens,"  "The  Parks,  Promenades,  and  Gardens  of  Paris,"  &c.  ;. 
and  the  best  Writers  in  every  department  of  Gardening  are  contributors  to  its  pages.  Special 
pains  are  taken  to  make  THE  GARDEN  intelligible  and  useful  in  all  its  parts  to  every  lover  of  a 
garden. 

The  Garden  may  be  obtained  through  all  News  Agents  and  at  the  Railway  Bookstalls,  at  4d. 
per  copy.  It  may  also  be  had  direct  from  the  GflBce  at  5s.  for  a  Quarter,  9s.  9d.  for  a  Half-year, 
and  19s.  6d.  for  a  Year,  payable  in  advance.     Single  copies  (post-freej,  4id. 


The  Flower  Garden. 
Landscape  Gardening. 
The  Fruit  Garden. 
Garden  Structures. 
Room  and  Window  Gardens. 
Notes  and  Questions. 
Market  Gardening. 
Trees  and  Shrubs. 


Hardy  Flowers. 

Town  Gardens. 

The  Conservatory. 

Public  Gardens. 

The  Greenhouse  and  Stove. 

The  Household. 

The  Wild  Garden. 

The  Kitchen  Garden. 


The  Office  of  The  Garden  is  at  37,  SOUTHAMPTON  Street,  Covent  Garden  (next 
door  to  the  Saturday  JReview  Office),  where  all  communications  should  be  sent. 


A  IE¥  STORY  by  the  AUTHOS  of  ^'  A  MIJ&HTER  OF  HETH." 


THE 


P 


STRANGE  ADyENTURES  OF  A  PHAETON, 

By  W.  Black, 

IS  NOW  APPEARING  IN 

PRICE    ONE    SHILLING    iViONTHLY. 

MACMILLAN    &    CO.,    BEDFORD    STREET,    LONDON. 


LL     THE     YEAR     ROU 

CONDUCTED  BY  CHARLES  DICKENS. 

This  Month's  Part,  Now  Ready,  contains  the  opening  chapters  of  a  New  Serial  Story,  Entitled 

By  Edmund  Yates,  Author  of  '-BLACK  SHEEP,"  "NOBODY'S  FORTUNE,"  &c..  &c. 


also 


CHRONICLES  OF  LONDON  STREETS— Newgate,    i    OLD   STORIES  RE-TOLD.— Scotch   Witches  and 


The  Execution  of  Governor  Wall.    The  Murder 

of  Mr.  Steel. 
The  "  Super." 
Lost  Hours  :  a  Poem. 
Among  the  Markets,  in  Two  Parts. 
British  Amazons. 
Only  a  Passing  Thought :  a  Poem, 
Taken  on  Trial.  [Company. 


Warlocks. 

Drowned  :  a  Poem.  [certs,  &c. 

Our  Hall :  St.  James  Hall,  Monday  Popular  Con- 
Two  Russian  Jesters. 
The  Atmosphera. 
Alphabetical  Liberties. 
Dreaming  and  Awaking  :  a  Poem, 
Punch  and  the  Puppets. 


The  Peninsular  and  Oriental  Steam  Navigation    1    LELGARDE'S  INHERITANCE  :  a  Stoiy.    And 
The  continuation  of  the  Serial  Story,  "  THE  WICKED  WOODS  OF  Sobereevil." 

All  THE  Year  Round  is  Published  in  Weekly  Numbers,  and  in  Monthly  Parts,  and  may  bo 
obtained  of  all  Booksellers,  and  Railway  Bookstalls  throughout  the  kingdom. 

(Established  in  1862), 

A  high-class  Weekly  Journal,  containing  Original  Articles,  Reviews,  Essays,  Cor- 
respondence, Concert  Notices,  together  with  special  Foreign  and  Home  News  of 

current  events. 

A  Piece  of  Vocal  or  Instrumental  Music  is  printed  in  each  number. 

The  Musical  Standard  is  supplied  Post  Free  to  Subscribers  paying  in  advance, 
for  Three  Months  2s.  6d. ;   Six  Months  5s, ;  Twelve  Months  los. 


PUBLISHING  &  ADVERTISEMENT  OFFICE-196,  STRAND,  W.C. 

MALTHTJS    (T.  R.),    AIT    ESSAY   OU   THE    PRHCIPIE   OF 

POPULATION  ;  or,  A  View  of  its  Past  and  Present  Effects  on  Human 
Happiness  ;  with  an  Inquiry  into  our  Prospects  respecting  the  future  Removal 
or  Mitigation  of  the  Evils  whicli  it  occasions.  Seventh  Edition.  Complete 
in  One  Volume,  8s. 

STIJRTETAIT   (S.  T.,  D.D,),   THE  PEEACKER'S   MANUAL  ; 

Lectures  on  Preaching,  furnishing  Rules  and  Examples  for  every  kind  of 
Pulpit  Address.  Fourth  Edition,  revised.  With  an  Introductory  Essay  on 
Preaching,  by  the  Rev.  A.  M.  Henderson.     8vo,  cloth,  9s. 

Reeves  &  Turnek,  IOG^Strand^  LondoNjW.C. 


^VJKEKLY,       IPIilOE       XTrOI>EISrc:E* 


THE    BAZAAR, 

EXCHANGE    AND    MAE 


J 


AND 


JOUENAL  OF  THE  EGUSEHGLB. 

ILJLUSTRATED. 


The  specialite  of  this  paper  is,  tlmt  it  enables  Ladies  and  Gentlemen  to 
Exchange,  Sell,  or  Buy  any  description  of  pergonal  Property  ^th  Ease,  Security, 
and  without  making  their  names  or  addresses  known. 

"  Like  all  grand  conceptions  the  process  is  remafka'ble  for  its  simplicity." — 
Glole. 

To  increase  the  utility  and  interest  of  the  Journal,  information  on  every  sub- 
ject, divided  under  the  following  heads,  is  given — 


Drawing  Room 
Library 
Boudoir 
Curtilage 


Han 

Housekeeper's  Room 

"Workshop 

Garden 


Coming  Events, 


The  paper  is  published  weekly,  and  maybe  had  at  Messrs.  Smith  and  Son's 
Bookstalls,  o^f  all  respectable  'Newsvendors,  or  direct  from  the  Office,  32,  Wel- 
lington Street,  Strand,  London. 


■*^Tj>*-%ci*avj»jj   j<. 


-"i-AWT  ■ 


£:s^aLblisIie<l  nearly  T3L^1T  a  Oeniniry. 


Pirst-Class  Carpets 

LOWEST  PRICES. 

Patterns  forwarded  to  tHe 
Country  free. 

First-Class  !Puniitnre 

LOWEST  t»RICES. 

Price- List  post-free. 


first-Class  Sillrs 

LOWEST  PRICES. 
Patterns  post-free. 

rirst-Class  Drapery 

LOWEST  PRICES. 
Patterns  post-free. 


COSTUMES  IN  THE  NEWEST  PARIS  &  BERLIN  DESIGNS. 


CHARITIES    AND    INSTITUTIONS    SUPPLIED. 


T.  VENABLES   &  SONS, 

103,  104,  &   105,  WHITECHAPEL; 


,;   AND    2,    4,    6    AND    8,    COMMERCIAL    STREET,    LONDON,    E. 


T-VsrOP>ElsrCE     "V^EEI^L-Y". 


I'  By  iBdltaotions  find  Directions  outi"— Shakstieare. 


A    NKW 


(Six* 


iH 


Mu\  ^em<ippt[, 


CONTAINING- 


SUPERB    ENGRAVINGS, 

POETRAITS    OF    EMIHENT    PERSOKS, 

PICTURES  BY  DISTINGUISHED  ARTISTS, 


F%   T%      i     i    ^sgi^   %m 


PARLIAMENT     DELINEATED, 

MTBMTIFEB,  THEATRES,  0PBBA3,  SCIENCE,  &o„ 

AND    A    CAREFUU.Y-COMPILED 

EPITOME     OF     THE    WEEK'S     NEWS. 


GREAT  ADTERTISII&  MEHIITM. 


Office :  10,MilfordLane,Stranc!,W.C.,London 


3^  XJ  S  I   O  . 


C   Xi   A 


OOD    &     Co 


Supply  Music  of  all  Publishers,  at  half  price,  and  post  free. 


LATEST  PU 

SONGS.  s.  d. 

I  Said  to  My  Love                        G.  Scone ia  4  0 

My  Old  Love                               Louisa  Gray  4  0 

Not  Lost   (Sacred)                  Henry  Jiussell  4  0 

Oh  give  me  back  theGolden  Days  G'.iScojjcirt  4  0 

Peace,  it  is  I !     (Sacred)          J.  F.  Knujht  3  0 

Raindrops                            Virginia  Gabriel  4  0 

The  Choice  (in  E  flat  &  G)  Virgniia  Gabriel  4  0 

The  Flower  and  the  Star        W.  F.  Taylor  3  0 

The  Good  is  Great  (Sacred)  Henry  Russell  4  0 

The  Trooper                       Alfred  Flumpton  4  0 

Thoughts                            Vircjinia  Gabriel  4  0 

"West  Wind,  0  West  Y/ind      A.  M.  Smith  3  0 


BLICATIONS. 

DANCE    MUSIC 

s. 

d. 

*Fosco  Galop 

Ricliardson 

4 

0 

*Jingle  Galop 

RevalUn 

4 

0 

♦Leap  for  Life  Galop 

JJarriott 

4 

0 

*Neck  and  Neck  Galop 

Go-frey 

4 

0 

*Rhoderich  Dhu  Galop 

D'Ace 

4 

0 

Jeaunette  Mazurka 

Marriott 

4 

0 

*Miss  or  Mrs.  Polka 

Ma7-riott 

4 

0 

*Inverary  Quadrilles 

D'Ace 

4 

0 

*  Jeannie  Waltzes 

D'Ace 

4 

0 

Les  Roses  Waltzes 

JWetra 

4 

0 

Waverley  Waltzes 

Albrecht 

4 

0 

Vale  ntine  Waltzes 

Felix 

4 

0 

*  Marked  thus  are  Illustrated. 


Payments  may  he  made  in  Stamps  or  Post  Office  Orders. 

VISITORS   TO    THEIR   ESTABLISHMENT    CAN    SEE    ALL    TEE    NOVELTIES 

AS    THEY  APPEAR. 


MUSIC  CIRCULATING  LIBRARY— SulDscription,  Two  to  Four  Guineas  per  anmxia. 


AOES^CY  FOR  OPERA  AND  CONCERT  TICKETS. 

SOI,    REa-EisTT^^rC^oisriDOis]",    w. 


A      CUP     OF     COFFEE      IN      ONE      MINUTE. 

(REGISTERED). 


DUNN'S 

F  C 

SOLD  IN  BOTTLES  AT  Is.  AND  2s.  EACH. ' 

Warranted  to  Keep  Good  in  ANY  Climate. 

DANIEL  DUNN  WAS  THE  INVENTOR  AND  FIRST  MANUFACTURER  OF "  ESSENCE  OF  COFFEE." 

"  I  think  I  can  confidently  assert  that  Dunn's  Essence  of  Coffee  is  the  only 
one  which  has  stood  ground  ;  all  other  attempts,  for  some  reason  or  other,  have 
hitherto  proved  failures,  and  eventually  have  heen  abandoned."  — Extract  from 
the  Commercial  Handbook  of  Chemical  Analysis,  by  A.  Nobmandy,  M.D. 

"The  thanks  of  the  public  are  due  to  Messrs.  Dunn  and  Hewett,  of 
Pentonville,  London,  for  continuing  the  manufacture  of  a  preparation  which 
was  invented  by  Mr.  Daniel  Dunn,  in  the  form  of  '  Essence  of  Coffee,'  having  all 
the  rich  aroma,  the  delicious  flavour,  and  the  exhilarating  qualities  of  the 
finest  Mocha." — Morning  Advertiser^  December  18,  1869. 

"First  introduced  by  Mr.  Daniel  Dunn." — Food  Journal,  vol.  i.,  p.  133. 

"It  is  so  convenient  to  carry,  so  easily  prepared,  so  fragrant,  so  refreshing, 

'""'--: "'>J-----:^'>^       and  withal  so  economical,  that  we  do  not  wonder  it  has  become  so  popular." — 
TRADE    MARK.   21te  lady's  Oivn  Paper. 

MANUFACTURED   BY 

DUNM  &,  HEWETT,  PEIMTONVILLE,  LOlMDON 


B 


piLamifiiiii 


4 


I 


i 


I 


/^^^ 


V.\K\\K\\\\\\\ 


'  I  :o>:tt>xtxwj.' 


I )  >  I  > )  I 


I » 1 1 1 » » 1 1 1  III  1  ' 

^^^^v,^v.v.^v,v.^v..v,v 

1  t:t\tiii  f  »i  111  )H» ' 

-1IHT»)I1>1'»II1 1 ' '  I 
..ilODItlMKI)*" 
iMIimiXI  >>'>>*"' 

■  ViViVi'»  I » )  1 '.v.v.w 

u)  (I  MI  m»>)  «»i"  ' 

1  >  I  m » I  n  1 1 1 II  > ' " 

^  (  )  H  J  t  II  >  I  I  »  J  n  >  (.I  <  ' 

I>»J4>I))II>I1I>M<I 

.11)1  ♦»»M»i>»iv.V.V 


J 1 1  n  < 


.till  iVl  »i  II » I » >  i  »  ►!  •.*,».'.■ 
. ) » I  •  1 1 11 1 1 1 » « V » I » '  i.V,'i' 
,  w*ifiiii)>d^>i>)''*' 
(  ilH  li»»1  »lll»>l»l  lllii 

/■Ml  I  I  11  Ml  Ml  »/,\'  >  »  ».V. 
.  .  M  H  »  1  I  I  t  1  •  H  >  ■  '  ■  ■  *  "  " 


,V,',V. 


Mill  JM»»».V\' 

jMiniMMAV ', 


*  > %  J  M  O  7  »  M  I  J  Ijl  1^1  I^I^I^I^J^Y^ 


SV.V.V.V.W/ 

.•.v.v.'.w.y.y 


lliiSi'il::;^^ 

• 'AW/' .' .' '.V.V.V .'.v.'.  


•/.v.v.'.v.v.v.y.v.,.} 


t  DIMI  I 
r  M  M  I  J 
M*ll* 


<  ftliM*MM*M<*' 

I  »  J  ■  »  I  »  »  *  « I  M  1 1  ♦  *  » 
»)  IMIM  I  M  >  IIIMJ 

II  M»l  M  MH1II  »»* 
M  f  I  •  I  M  »  1 1  «,V  I  '  •  i 

II • » 1 »  I  f  I  1 1  '     *  f " J 

I)*IIM4IM1M?)<I 
M  •  M  I II  M  I  '  M  II II 
iM  JM  '  l>M»  »  1/  I  I  » 


I  1%  >  M  M  M  M  I  >  I  H  ' 


I  M  I  M  I  ^  M  •  r 

V.V.'.'.V/.W. 


.  Ill"   M  HI  '1   11    '  "»1      •  ', 


iM«J>«)Mll 
M  »  I  f  «  M.M  1  •   ' 
I  MM  111(11  t   ' 
MIMMMI  I  f  ' 
I  1  I  f  I  *  I  1 1  *>*'''  ' 
MllllMlllM»*i 
,VIJll*MlMJ>ll'- 

•  ■'.  "•.•■.'.•.'.'.•.•.'.'.•. 


■:wwW/;w';v;'av?;va;, 


»  J  7  *  I  If  I  >  I, 
-   t  M  M  *  »  I  )  I 


JlMII'lljlW  ' 
M  I  1 1  M  >  I  11  I  < 
>|IIII#l#il » 


*  J  i  I  t»i I M J 


M  J  I  I  M 
l»)Jli» . 
»  '  M  I  M 


IIIMIU'IMMI'II  ' 
■  -JMi  Ml  MlllMf  >J 
tJiHHJI  Ml, 


■  iVjVi  J />) 1 1 1  V,' V* ', 

.11/1  MllllMill  tM  •  ' 

■//iV.ViV.V.VAVi'iV.'. 

.  MM  IJIIMI  tA»' '  V.'- ...  .  .  . 

1  M  iM  >  I  *  ^  ? '  v.*  *.VA  i  v.Vt , 


.■iV; 


i/^i jjiiJjii ' 

I  1  M  M  »  I  /)  •  ' 


