THE  NON-DRAMATIC  WORKS 
■)F  HROSVITHA 

I  1  ^Bo  ranslation,  and  Commentary 

CO         o  ^^^^^=  ^^ 


O       o  ^  I ;^ 


O       qc 


i   I   ^^gco  ^iggerlattott 

"^^t      ^^S<0   ESENTED  TO  THE  GRADUATE  SCHOOL 

i^  OF 

"  ^  SAINT  LOUIS  UNIVERSITY 

IN  PARTLO.  FULFILLMENT  OF  THE  REQUIREMENTS  FOR 
THE  DEGREE  OF  DOCTOR  OF  PHILOSOPHY 


BY 

SISTER  M.  GONSALVA  WIEGAND,  0.  S.  F., 

A.  B.,  A.  M. 


Saint  Louis,  Missouri 
1936 


THE  NON-DRAMATIC  WORKS 
OF  HROSVITHA 

Text,  Translation,  and  Commentary 

dissertation 

PRESENTED  TO  THE  GRADUATE  SCHOOL 

OF 

SAINT  LOUIS  UNIVERSITY 

IN  PARTIAL  FULFILLMENT  OF  THE  REQUIREMENTS  FOR 

THE  DEGREE  OF  DOCTOR  OF  PHILOSOPHY 


BY 

SISTER  M.  GONSALVA  WIEGAND,  0.  S.  F., 
A.  B.,  A.  M. 


Saint  Louis,  Missouri 
1936 


IMPRIMI  POTEST 

Eberhard  Olinger,  0.  S. 
St.  Meinrad  Abbey, 
St.  Meinrad,  Indiana 

February  28,  1937 


IMPRIMATUR 

Joseph  E.  Ritter 

Bishop  of  Indianapolis 
March  3,  1937 


Copyright,  1937 

by 

SISTERS  OF  ST.  FRANCIS 

Oldenburg,  Indiana 


Printed  by 
THE  ABBEY  PRESS 

ST.    MEINRAD,    INDIANA 


V^  L  2  5 


To 
MOTHER  M.  CLARISSA,  0.  S.  F. 


39093 


Committee  in  Charge  of  the  Candidacy 

Assistant  Professor  William  C.  Korfmacher 

(Chairman  and  Adviser) 

Assistant  Professor  Norbert  A.  Fuerst 

Professor  Otto  J.  Kuhnmuench,  S.  J. 

Professor  James  A.  Kleist,  S.  J. 

Professor  Francis  A.  Preuss,  S.  J. 


AUTHOR'S  PREFACE 

The  ultimate  origin  of  this  work  may  be  traced  to  the 
interest  aroused  by  a  study  of  the  Mediaeval  Latin  Writers 
under  the  Reverend  Otto  J.  Kuhnmuench,  S.  J.,  professor  of 
Latin  at  Saint  Louis  University,  and  director  of  the  depart- 
ment of  classical  languages. 

The  dramas  of  the  Nun  of  Gandersheim  have  brought 
her  well-merited  fame,  and  their  reproduction  upon  the 
modern  stage  has  met  with  some  success.  Yet  her  legends 
and  epics,  charming  and  unique  as  they  are  in  their  very 
simplicity,  have  been  allowed  to  pass  into  oblivion,  at  least 
by  English  and  American  scholars.  Hence  arose  my  interest 
in  her  non-dramatic  works.  Added  to  this  is  the  considera- 
tion that  Hrosvitha  is  but  another  product  of  those  "dark 
ages,"  an  epithet  which  modern  prejudice  has,  until  of  late, 
undeservedly  bestowed  upon  all  or  portions  of  the  mediaeval 
era. 

I  desire  moreover,  to  record  my  gratitude  to  the  other 
professors  of  the  Department  of  Classical  languages  at  Saint 
Louis  University  for  their  ever-ready  and  courteous  assist- 
ance rendered  me  while  a  student  at  that  institution ;  to  the 
Reverend  James  A.  Kleist,  S.  J.,  whose  learning  and  schol- 
arship have  ever  been  to  me  a  source  of  inspiration,  and 
whose  aid  in  the  revision  of  this  study  has  been  invaluable ; 
but  especially  to  Dr.  William  C.  Korfmacher,  whose  kindly 
encouragement  and  guidance  have  done  much  to  impart  to 
the  work  whatever  success  it  may  have  attained. 

June,  1936 

SISTER  M.  GONSALVA 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Archive 

in  2010  with  funding  from 

University  of  Illinois  Urbana-Champaign 


http://www.archive.org/details/nondramaticworksOOhrot 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

Author's  Preface    v 

List  of  Abbreviations  viii 

Introduction      x 

The  Apocrypha 3 

Preface  to  the  First  Book  of  Hrosvitha 7 

Dedication  to  Gerberga 13 

The  Maria 15 

Notes  on  the  Maria 66 

The  Ascension  of  Our  Lord 75 

Notes  on  the  Ascension 84 

Invocation     89 

The  Martyrdom  of  Blessed  Gongolf 89 

Notes  on  the  Saint  Gongolf 121 

The  Suffering  of  Pelagius 129 

Notes  on  the  Pelagius 153 

The  Full  and  Conversion  of  Theophilus 159 

Notes  on  the  Theophilus 185 

Basilius      193 

Notes  on  the  Basilius 209 

The  Passion  of  Saint  Dionysius 215 

Notes  on  the  Dionysius 231 

The  Passion  of  Saint  Agnes 237 

Notes  on  the  Agnes 263 

Bibhography       269 

Vita  Auctoris  273 


LIST  OF  ABBREVIATIONS 

Abr.  Hrosvitha,  Abraham 

Ac.  Acta  Apostolorum 

Act.  Sanct.  Bollandists,  Acta  Sanctorum 

Agn.  Hrosvitha,  Passio  Sanctae  Agnetis 

Apoc.  Sanctus  loannes,  Apocalypsus 

App.  crit.  Strecker,  Apparatus  criticus 

Aug.,  Conf.  St.  Augustine,  Confessions 

Ba^.  Hrosvitha,  Basilius 

Caes.,  B.  G.  Caesar,  Bellum  Gallicum 

Calim.  Hrosvitha,  Calimachus 

Carm.  Fortunatus,  Carmina 

Cant.  Canticus  Canticorum 

Cic,  Att.  Cicero,  Ad  Atticum 
De  Fin.  De  Finibu^ 

De  Rep.  De  Republica 

Tv^c.  Tvsculanae  Disputationes 

Verr.  In  Verrem  Orationes 

Diony.  Hrosvitha,  Passio  Sancti  Dionisii 

Drac.  Dracontius 

Dulc.  Hrosvitha,  Dulcitius 

Eccl.  Ecclesiasticus 

Ekkh.,  Walth.  Ekkhard,  Waltharilied 

Exod.  Exodus 

Ezech.  Ezechiel 

Gen.  Genesis 

Gest.  Hrosvitha,  Gesta  Ottonis 

Gong.  Hrosvitha,  Passio  Sancti  Gongolfi 

Horace,  AP.  Horace,  Ars  Poetica 

Ep.  Epistulae 

lo.  Evangelium  secundum  loannem 

Lc.  Evangelium  secundum  Lucam 

Lucr.  Lucretius 

Mt.  Evangelium  secundum.  Matthaeum 

Num.  Liber  Numeri 


Vlll 


List  of  Abbreviations 


Ovid,  Met. 

Ovid,  Metamorphoses 

T, 

Tristia 

Pafn. 

Hrosvitha,  Pafnutius 

Paul.,  Ad  Cor. 

Paulus,  Arf  Corinthios 

Ad.  Thess 

Ad  Thessalonicen^es 

Ad  Phil. 

Ad  Philippenses 

Pelag. 

Hrosvitha,  Passio  Sancti  Pelagii 

Pliny,  N.H. 

Pliny,  Naturalis  Historiae 

Prim. 

Hrosvitha,  Primordia  Coenobii  Gandes- 

hemensis 

Prud.,  Ap. 

Prudentius,  Apotheosis 

Cath. 

Cathemerinon 

Ham. 

Hamartigenia, 

Peris. 

Peristephanon 

Psych. 

Psychomachia 

3  Reg. 

III  Regum  Liber 

Sap. 

Hrosvitha,  Sapientia 

Sedul. 

Sedulius,  Carmen  Paschale 

Seq.  de  Apost. 

Notker,  Sequentia  de  Apostolis 

Stat.,  Silv. 

Statius,  Silvae 

Tac,  Ann. 

Tacitus  Annales 

Hist. 

Historiae 

Ter.,  Adelph. 

Terence,  Adelphi 

And. 

Andria 

Hec. 

Hecyra 

Eun. 

Eunuchus 

Theoph. 

Hrosvitha,  Lapsus  et  Conversio  Theophili 

Tob. 

Tobias 

Vergil,  Aen. 

Vergil,  Aeneid 

Ed. 

Eclogues 

Georg. 

Georgics 

Vitr. 

Vitruvius 

-IX 


INTRODUCTION 


Recovery  of  a  Tenth-Century  Manuscript 

Soon  after  the  discovery  of  printing  at  the  end  of  the 
fifteenth  century,  there  were  in  Northern  and  Southern 
Germany  learned  admirers  of  poetry  who  spent  their  hves 
in  the  quest  of  hidden  gems  of  literary  value. 

It  was  during  the  reign  of  Emperor  Maximilian  I,  that  a 
famous  humanist  was  destined  to  preserve  for  posterity  the 
works  of  the  humble  Hrosvitha  of  Gandersheim.  Conrad 
Celtes,  surnamed  Protucius,  a  poet  of  great  reputation  in 
his  day,  and  also  a  humanist  of  no  small  fame,  spent  many 
years  of  his  life  wandering  through  Germany,  visiting 
various  institutions  and  universities,  and  collecting  material 
for  an  extensive  historical  work  he  was  to  prepare. 

During  one  of  his  literary  expeditions  he  happened  upon 
the  Benedictine  Monastery  of  Saint  Emmeram  in  Ratisbon. 
Here  he  discovered  a  codex  containing  some  Latin  verses 
in  neat  Gothic  script.  His  surprise  increased  when  he  found 
upon  the  title  page  the  name  of  Hrosvitha,  a  nun  of  the 
tenth  century.  That  manuscript  contained  six  dramas  and 
a  collection  of  legendary  poems.  This  treasure  had  been 
entirely  forgotten  during  the  Middle  Ages,  because  of  the 
fact  that  after  the  death  of  Gerberga,  the  niece  of  Otto,  and 
the  abbess  of  the  monastery  in  which  our  poet  lived  and 
labored,  the  literary  prestige  of  that  institution  fell  upon  a 
decline.  Only  one  trace  is  found  in  Eberhard,  a  priest  of 
Gandersheim,  who  made  use  of  her  Carmen  de  Primordiis, 
This  manuscript  was  not  included  in  the  find  of  Celtes.  But 
for  the  single  copy  which  had  found  its  way  to  the  mon- 
astery of  Saint  Emmeram,  Hrosvitha  would  have  been  lost 
to  us  forever.  Thus  is  seen  its  inestimable  value  in  being 
the  only  authentic  copy  of  her  works,  the  source  of  Hros- 
vitha's  rising  fame.    At  the  secularization  in  Germany  the 


Introdiiction 

document  came  into  the  royal  library  of  Munich,  where 
to-day  it  is  preserved  as  Cod.  lat.  14485. 

Was  it  mere  co-incidence  that  drew  two  able  scholars  and 
humanists  of  the  fifteenth  century  almost  simultaneously  to 
the  works  of  Hrosvitha?  In  1494,  John  Trithemius,  Abbot 
of  Spannheim,  published  the  first  edition  of  De  Scriptorihus 
Ecclesiasticis,  in  which  he  makes  mention  of  Hrosvitha  and 
her  works.  In  that  same  year,  Conrad  Celtes,  the  poet  lau- 
reate and  humanist,  discovered  her  manuscript.  If  Celtes 
gave  the  information  to  the  abbot,  then  he  holds  the  palm 
of  discovery;  but  it  is  also  possible  that  Trithemius  may 
have  examined  the  codices  of  Saint  Emmeram  and  may  have 
taken  notes  concerning  this  work.  In  this  case  he  would 
be  regarded  as  the  discoverer.  His  work,  it  seems,  crossed 
the  Alps,  for  presently  other  editions  appeared.  Yet  Con- 
rad Celtes  is  to  be  regarded  as  the  first  biographer  and 
publisher  of  Hrosvitha's  works.  It  was  in  1501  that  Celtes 
brought  out  his  first  edition,  altered  however  to  suit  his 
caprice,  for  the  humanist  had  changed  the  order  of  the  in- 
dividual works  and  had  made  many  corrections  which  were 
not  always  felicitous. 

A  manuscript  independent  of  the  Ratisbon  codex  was 
found  in  the  first  half  of  the  sixteenth  century  by  the  Monk 
Bodo  of  Gandersheim.  This  contained  the  Carmen  Coenobii 
Gandeshemensis,  and  the  edition  of  Bodo  was  the  first 
known  copy  of  this  poem.  It  was  not  included  in  the  find 
of  Celtes.^ 

Such  was  the  sensation  that  the  manuscript  of  Conrad 
Celtes  created,  that  a  theory  was  set  on  foot  to  the  effect 
that  the  work  was  a  forgery  of  the  humanist  and  some  of 
his  companions.  This  question  of  authenticity  was  first 
raised  by  Professor  Joseph  Ritter  von  Aschbach  in  his  Ros- 
witha  und  Konrad  Celtes,  published  at  Vienna  in  1868.  In 
this  work  the  antagonist  of  Celtes  brought  out  very  careful 
and  elaborate  allegations  regarding  the  genuinity  of  the 
manuscript.  But  one  who  reads  this  treatise  is  struck  by 
the  painful  attempts  of  this  author  to  create  fanciful  situa- 
tions.    It  is  all  too  hypothetical  to  have  weight.     We  are 


Introdtiction 

introduced  to  the  most  intricate  arrangements  for  secrecy, 
to  the  most  astute  precautions  taken  by  the  would-be  for- 
gerers  to  prevent  detection ;  he  goes  so  far  as  to  fabricate 
also  the  motives  which  might  have  induced  the  humanists 
to  such  a  deception  and  caused  them  to  spend  years  of  labor 
and  of  unremitting  care  on  a  work  destined  to  deceive  the 
learned  world. 

According  to  Aschbach,  it  would  appear  that  Celtes  was 
annoyed  because  the  Italian  humanists  had  spoken  disparag- 
ingly of  German  culture ;  and  then,  too,  the  author  alleged 
that  Celtes  had  been  offended  because  his  correspondence 
with  Charitas  Pirkheimer,  a  nun  in  the  convent  of  Nurem- 
burg,  had  been  interrupted  by  her  superiors.  Assigning 
thus  a  double  motive  to  the  supposed  deception  of  Celtes, 
namely  one  of  vindicating  his  nation  from  the  charge  of 
mediocre  culture,  and  the  other  that  of  justifying  his  cor- 
respondence with  Charitas,  the  antagonist  of  Celtes  builds 
up  a  very  fanciful  and  incredible  treatise  of  suppositions. 
He  further  contends  that  the  spirit  which  breathes  through 
these  works  is  throughout  a  masculine  one;  the  Latin  is 
too  pure  for  the  tenth  century,  savoring  rather  of  the  fif- 
teenth ;    the  dramatic  form  is  decidedly  that  of  a  later  age. 

Thus  far  for  Professor  Aschbach.  But  he  met  his  rival 
in  a  scholar  of  no  mean  ability  and  one  who  succeeded  in 
vindicating  Hrosvitha  and  her  humanistic  champion  for  all 
times  to  come.  Professor  Rudolf  Koepke  in  his  Hroswitha 
von  Gandersheim,  challenges  his  adversary  on  his  own 
ground  of  verbal  criticism,  and  he  shows  that  there  is  noth- 
ing in  Hrosvitha's  works,  either  in  diction,  theme,  or  style, 
which  would  militate  against  the  probability  that  the  work 
was  that  of  the  tenth  century.  There  is,  he  says,  on  the  con- 
trary much  that  is  at  variance  with  the  language  of  Celtes 
and  of  his  associates.  Expert  palaeographers  have  more- 
over pronounced  the  manuscript  free  from  any  spurious- 
ness,  and  men  like  Pertz,  Barack,  Magnin,  Strecker,  and 
Gieselbrecht  have  vouched  for  its  genuineness.^ 

The  codex  of  Celtes  as  it  now  survives  in  the  Royal  Li- 
brary of  Munich  is  written  in  various  hands.    It  is  not  free 

-xii- 


Introduction 

from  errors.  This  is  because  of  its  having  been  corrected 
partly  by  Celtes  and  partly  by  the  hands  of  others.  This 
codex  of  Celtes,  as  we  have  mentioned,  did  not  contain  the 
Carmen  de  Primordiis,  but  this  latter  poem  together  with  a 
Vita  of  Saints  Athanasius  and  Innocent  was  found  by  Bodo, 
a  monk  of  the  monastery  at  Klus.  The  codex  discovered  by 
Bodo  is  apparently  no  longer  extant,  for  no  traces  of  the 
Vita  have  been  found.  However,  at  the  beginning  of  the 
eighteenth  century  another  copy  of  the  Carmen  de  Primor- 
diis was  discovered,  but  without  the  lives  of  the  two  popes. 
This  last  copy  was  edited  by  Professor  Leuckfeld  in  his 
Antiquitates  Gandesheimensis  and  from  this  apographon 
two  other  manuscripts  were  copied,  the  one  of  G.  W.  Leib- 
nitz, the  other  that  of  G.  H.  Pertz.  It  was  from  these  un- 
reliable sources  that  the  Carmen  had  to  be  reconstructed. 

There  is  extant  also  a  transcription  of  Codex  lat.  14485, 
that  of  the  Munich  manuscript  found  by  Celtes.  This 
transcription  is  in  the  form  of  one  of  the  dramas  of  Hros- 
vitha,  the  Gallicanus,  and  it  dates  back  to  the  seventeenth 
century.  It  may  be  found  as  Codex  Gallicanus  2552  in  the 
Passionale  Austricum. 

Before  Conrad  Celtes  published  his  manuscript  in  1501, 
the  humanist  Theodore  Gresmund,  Jr.,  with  scrupulous  care 
copied  his  apographon  from  the  Munich  codex.  This  tran- 
script was  later  found  at  Pommersfeld  as  Codex  2883  and 
it  has  proved  very  valuable  in  repairing  much  of  the  havoc 
done  to  the  manuscript  by  the  over-eager  Conrad  Celtes. 
So  too  a  fragment  was  discovered  containing  portions  of  the 
Maria  and  of  the  Sapientia,  apparently  also  copied  from  the 
Munich  codex.  This  dates  back,  however,  to  the  eleventh 
century  and  is  now  preserved  at  Klagenfurt  in  Austria. 
There  is  still  another  source,  a  codex  in  the  archives  at 
Cologne,  and  undoubtedly  independent  of  the  Munich  manu- 
script. This  text  is  in  some  places  more  reliable,  but  it  con- 
tains only  four  dramas. 

Summing  up  therefore  the  manuscripts  which  were  at  one 
time  or  another  extant,  we  have :  Codex  Monacensis,  found 
by  Celtes  and  now  in  the  Library  of  Munich  as  Cod.  lat. 

-  xiii  - 


Introduction 

14485 ;  Codex  Gallicanus  2552,  containing  a  drama  of  that 
name  and  being  a  transcript  of  the  Cod.  kit.  14485 ;  Codex  P 
2883,  the  apographon  of  Gresmund,  now  found  at  Pommers- 
feld ;  Codex  K  from  the  eleventh  century,  containing  por- 
tions of  the  Maria  and  of  the  Sapientia,  and  now  at  Klagen- 
furt,  Austria;  the  Codex  of  Bodo,  originally  at  Klus,  but 
now  lost,  containing  the  De  Primordiis  Coenobii  Gandes- 
hemensis;  and  finally  Codex  C,  independent  of  any  of  the 
extant  codices,  containing  four  dramas  and  now  kept  at 
Cologne.^ 

The  Munich  manuscript,  edited  by  Conrad  Celtes  in  1501 
and  containing  all  the  works  of  Hrosvitha  except  that  of  the 
foundation  of  Gandersheim,  was  re-edited  in  1707  at  Wit- 
tenberg, by  H.  L.  Schurzfleisch.  In  1857,  Dr.  K.  A.  Barack 
edited  at  Nuremberg  a  complete  copy  of  all  the  works  of 
Hrosvitha.  He  tells  in  his  preface  that  his  edition  is  the 
first  complete  text,  and  that  he  made  use  of  the  Munich 
Codex  and  that  of  Pommersfeld,  and  that  he  had  made  every 
effort  to  restore  the  text  to  its  original  form.  Pertz  had, 
in  1841,  edited  the  historic  epics  of  the  House  of  the  Ottos 
and  the  Foundation  of  Gandersheim.  This  work  and  that 
of  Schurzfleisch  are  the  texts  used  in  the  Patrologia  and  in 
the  Monumentci  Germaniae  Historica.  Karolus  Strecker  in 
1906  and  in  a  revised  edition  in  1930  attempted  to  restore 
the  original  text.  This  edition  is  the  most  reliable.  It  is 
this  which  was  used  in  the  present  work,  with  occasional 
departures. 

In  1845  the  comedies  of  Hrosvitha  were  translated  into 
French  and  edited  at  Paris  by  the  noted  scholar  C.  Magnin ; 
a  German  translation  by  J.  Benedixen  appeared  at  Luebeck, 
Austria,  in  1857 ;  and  in  1923  Christopher  St.  John  issued 
at  London  his  English  translation  of  Hrosvitha's  comedies. 

There  is  also  a  French  translation  of  her  legends,  brought 
out  in  Paris  in  1854  by  V.  Retif  de  la  Bretonne,  and  a 
German  translation  of  the  two  historic  epics,  the  work  of 
Dr.  Th.  Pfund,  edited  at  Leipzig  in  1859,  and  revised  by 
Wm.  Wattenbach  in  1888.  Many  learned  and  enlightening 
commentaries  have  been  written  on  both  the  legends  and  the 


Introduction 

dramas  of  Hrosvitha,  but  there  is  no  complete  edition  in 
English  of  her  non-dramatic  works.* 

Biography  of  Hrosvitha 

The  facts  regarding  Hrosvitha's  birth  and  early  life  can 
be  obtained  partly  by  conjecture  and  in  a  great  measure  can 
be  gleaned  from  her  works.  The  little  we  have  of  real 
knowledge  serves  but  to  mystify  us  regarding  her  identity 
and  even  to  surround  her  with  an  air  of  romance.  "She  is  a 
Greek  princess,"  some  one  will  venture,  probably  basing  the 
flimsy  argument  on  the  intermarriage  of  the  Saxon  and 
Greek  thrones  during  the  time  of  Otto  II.  Her  name,  how- 
ever, contradicts  this  assertion.  Others  again  will  identify 
her  with  the  poetess  Hilda  Heresvida ;  but  she  lived  three 
hundred  years  before  Hrosvitha.  There  was  also  another 
Hrosvitha  at  Gandersheim^  but  this  was  several  decades  be- 
fore our  poet's  floruit.  A  wood-cut  is  extant  which  makes 
her  a  descendant  of  the  royal  house  of  Rossow;*'  this  is 
merely  a  conjecture  because  of  a  similarity  between  Rossow 
and  Hroswitha."  The  existence  of  the  house  of  Rossow  can- 
not be  dated  back  farther  than  1492.  Neither  can  the  fact 
that  Hrosvitha's  writings  often  have  direct  reference  to  the 
sea  vouch  for  the  certainty  that  she  lived  near  the  North 
Sea.^  She  may  have  been  acquainted  with  the  life  of  the 
fishermen  through  her  knowledge  of  the  classics. 

It  is  most  likely,  however,  that  she  did  descend  from  a 
noble  Saxon  house,  since  for  many  centuries  only  those  of 
the  nobility  were  taken  up  in  the  so-called  "free  abbeys," 
such  as  was  the  monastery  of  Gandersheim.^ 

As  regards  the  date  of  her  birth,  she  states  in  her  preface 
that  she  was  somewhat  older  than  her  abbess  and  Maecenic 
patroness  Gerberga.  The  latter  was  born  between  939  and 
941,  and  modern  scholars  have  established  935  as  the  pos- 
sible date  of  Hrosvitha's  birth. ^°  It  is  uncertain  at  what 
age  she  entered  the  monastery  of  Gandersheim,  but  she  was 
probably  very  young  at  the  time. 

So  too  the  date  of  her  death  is  uncertain;  but  if  it  be 
true,  as  some  writers  have  it,  that  she  sang  the  praises  of 

-XV- 


Introdiiction 

the  three  Ottos,  then  she  must  have  Hved  at  least  until  1002, 
in  which  year  Otto  III  died.^^  This  would  correspond  also 
to  the  conjecture  that  Hrosvitha  died  the  same  year  as  did 
Gerberga,  who  ended  her  earthly  career  in  1002. 

So  also  has  the  meaning  of  her  name  given  rise  to  much 
controversy  and  fanciful  conjecture.  Some  will  have  it 
merely  a  development  from  her  supposed  family  name  Ros- 
sow;^2  Dorer  sees  in  the  name  Hrosvitha  an  analogy  to 
'Swanvit/  interpreted  'White  Swan';  and  to  'Sonnenwit,' 
'White  Sun.'"  He  would  thus  have  her  name  mean  'White 
Rose.'  Really  a  charming  and  an  appropriate  interpreta- 
tion! But  charm  and  preference  must  cede  to  fact.  Grimm 
traces  the  significance  of  the  name  to  a  variation  of  'Hruods- 
wind/  the  'mighty  voice' ;^*  this  is  substantiated  by  the 
author  herself  who  in  the  preface  to  her  dramas,  calls  her- 
self the  'mighty  voice  of  Gandersheim.'^^ 

What  we  know  of  her  life  at  Gandersheim  we  deduce  from 
her  own  writings.  Rikkardis  she  calls  'a  learned  and  gentle 
magistra'^®  but  to  Gerberga,  her  abbess,  the  daughter  of 
Duke  Henry  of  Bavaria,  she  owes  the  development  of  the 
divine  gift  which  brought  her  immortal  fame.^"  She  it  was 
who  instructed  her  in  the  classics  and  in  the  writings  of  the 
Fathers.  The  dramas  of  Hrosvitha  reveal  with  what  results 
that  learned  woman  had  instructed  her  protegee  in  all  the 
branches  of  the  day.  Music,  astronomy,  and  dialectics  form 
favorite  topics  of  discussion  among  her  dramatic  charac- 
ters, a  fact  which  incidentally  vouches  for  the  scientific 
trend  of  scholars  in  those  much  maligned  'dark  ages.' 

A  brief  glance  at  the  condition  of  Germany  during  the 
tenth  century  will  clarify  much  which  at  first  sight  tends  to 
gainsay  the  culture  of  that  period.  It  has  been  heretofore 
a  generally  expressed  opinion  that  the  tenth  century  re- 
vealed the  intellectual  'darkness'  of  the  middle  ages  at  its 
densest.  Historians  have  depicted  it  as  an  age  of  absolute 
barbarity,  lawlessness,  and  ignorance.  Be  that  as  it  may, 
in  Germany  at  least  the  century  was  far  from  being  one  of 
unrelieved  inactivity  and  disintegration.  Under  the  Ottos, 
a  fresh  impulse  was  given  to  imperialism  and  learning.  Con- 


Introduction 

ditions  there  were  singularly  favorable  for  a  movement  of 
literary  and  intellectual  activity.  There  was  a  temporary 
peace ;  the  German  crown  adorned  Saxon  heads ;  Italy  and 
Greece  contributed  a  favorable  influence  because  of  social 
contact  with  the  German  kingdom.  Otto,  in  951,  marched 
into  Italy,  freed  Queen  Adelaide  from  her  oppressor  Beren- 
gar,  and  made  her  his  bride.  Thereupon  he  entered  Pavia 
and  was  there  crowned  king  of  the  Lombards.  Bruno,  the 
brother  of  Otto,  and  archbishop  of  Cologne,  brought  artists 
and  scholars  from  Constantinople.  Otto  II,  son  of  the  em- 
peror, married  the  Greek  Princess  Theophana,  thus  sur- 
rounding himself  with  Greek  culture  and  philosophy.  These 
events  tended  to  make  of  Germany  not  only  the  strongest 
but  also  the  most  enlightened  state  in  Europe.  The  cloisters, 
founded  and  sustained  by  nobles,  became  nurseries  of  cul- 
ture and  drew  into  their  bosoms  maidens  of  rank  who 
sought  here  a  refuge  from  the  turmoil  and  clangor  of  the 
court,  longing  for  something  higher  than  mere  worldly 
glamor. 

Among  these  institutions  was  that  of  Gandersheim.  This 
monastery  was  founded  by  Count  Liudulf  in  852.  The 
authority  of  the  abbess  was  supreme;  she  had  her  own 
court;  she  sent  her  own  men-at-arms  into  the  field;  she 
coined  her  own  money.  In  such  an  institution  culture  was 
at  its  best.  In  the  early  days,  the  abbesses  of  Gandersheim 
were  drawn  almost  exclusively  from  the  Saxon  court. 
Luxury,  however,  did  not  find  its  way  into  their  lives,  for  as 
Leuckfeld  says  in  his  Antiquitates  Gandeshemensis  :^'"' 

They  kept  the  rules  of  Saint  Benedict  very  strictly ; 
they  were  forbidden  to  eat  away  from  the  common 
table  except  in  case  of  sickness.  They  slept  in  a 
common  dormitory  and  came  together  to  celebrate 
the  canonical  hours.  And  they  set  to  work  together 
whenever  work  had  to  be  done. 

It  was  in  this  intellectual  paradise  that  the  lot  of  Hros- 
vitha  was  cast.  But  it  is  on  the  literary  side  alone  that  we 
place  her  in  the  classical  school.  The  spirit  of  her  work 
is  decidedly  that  of  the  period  in  which  she  lived,  and  be- 


IntrodvAition 

neath  the  rugged  garb  of  a  dead  language  beats  the  throb- 
bing pulse  of  a  new  era.  Everywhere  we  can  trace  the 
influence  of  that  enigmatical  age.  Paganism  in  conflict 
with  Christianity  gives  the  period  a  local  color  all  its  own. 
Our  nun-poet  knew  these  conditions,  and  her  talents  aided 
her  to  execute  an  impulse  which  her  generous  nature  could 
not  allow  to  lie  doiTnant.  In  this  respect  Hrosvitha  is  essen- 
tially German,  for  as  Hudson  puts  it:  "Her  art  was  but 
the  vehicle  for  the  conveyance  of  her  dogma.  Beauty  is 
there  most  certainly,  but  it  is  subservient  to  truth."" 

Literary  Career  of  Hrosvitha 

The  works  of  Hrosvitha  fall  into  three  groups :  she  her- 
self seems  to  have  made  the  distinction.  True  poet  that 
she  was,  she  began  her  literary  career  with  the  epic.  Youth 
and  natural  bent  inclined  her  to  this,  her  initial  choice. 
There  is  a  girlish  reserve  and  timidity  in  the  nesciola  as 
with  charming  simplicity  she  begs  indulgence  because  of  her 
youth  and  inexperience." 

Her  first  book  contains  eight  legends:  the  Maria,  the 
Ascetisio,  Gongolfus,  Pelagius,  Theophilus,  Basilius,  Diony- 
siiis,  and  Agnes.  The  first  five  of  these  were  edited  separate- 
ly and  dedicated  to  Gerberga  with  a  plea,  couched  in  six 
elegiacs,  that  she  would  deign  to  correct  whatever  was  de- 
fective in  the  work.  Later,  the  Basilius,  Dionysius,  and 
Agnes  were  added,  again  with  a  brief  commendation  to 
Gerberga,  together  with  a  petition  for  consideration  ad- 
dressed to  readers  beyond  the  confines  of  the  monasteiy, 
asking  that  they  too  be  gracious  and  indulgent  in  their  criti- 
cisms. Apparently  the  entire  collection  of  the  legends  was 
not  edited  before  962,  for  in  the  preface  Hrosvitha  ad- 
dresses Gerberga  as  niece  of  the  emperor,  and  this  latter 
title  was  not  conferred  upon  Otto  before  that  date. 

The  first  of  these  legends,  the  Maria,  is  taken  from  the 
apocryphal  gospel  of  Saint  James.^°  Hrosvitha  did  not  know 
the  true  nature  of  these  pseudo-gospels,  nor  was  she  aware 
of  the  Church's  attitude  toward  these  uncanonical  writings. 
When  enlightened  to  this  effect  she  pleaded  ignorance  and 


Introduction 

expressed  a  hope  that  some  time  those  incidents  might  be 
proven  true.  Of  course,  this  has  never  happened,  yet  her 
legends  serve  rather  as  literary  gems  than  as  expositions  of 
dogma. 

Hrosvitha's  style  and  meter  are  peculiar  to  the  epics  of 
her  day.  She  uses  the  leonine  hexameter  and  also  the 
elegiac  couplet.  Her  clausulae  usually  rhymed  with 
homoeoteleuton.  In  her  choice  of  rhyme  and  diction,  how- 
ever, she  shows  much  individuality.  By  adapting  new 
themes  to  the  leonine  hexameter  she  inaugurated  an  entirely 
new  type  of  poetry  which  found  many  imitators  in  her  own 
day.  Beauty  and  vivacity  are  not  wanting  and  her  fond- 
ness for  diminutives  gives  her  work  a  distinctive  feminine 
cast." 

It  was,  however,  her  second  book  which  was  destined  to 
place  the  laurels  upon  the  modest  brow  of  the  nun  of 
Gandersheim.  Hrosvitha  stands  alone  as  dramatist  of  her 
age.  No  other  links  the  classic  dramatists  with  our  modern 
theater.  Whether  or  not  she  wrote  her  plays  for  the  stage 
is  a  much-mooted  question.  Magnin  in  the  preface  to  his 
Theatre  de  Hrosvitha  contends  that  they  were  made  to  be 
acted,  but  the  weight  of  evidence  seems  to  lie  on  the  other 
side.  This  much  we  know  from  her  own  pen :  she  wished 
to  counteract  what  she  considered  the  pernicious  influence 
of  pagan  authors  like  Terence,  and  to  supply  the  plastic 
minds  of  her  younger  Sisters  with  themes  more  worthy  of 
their  consideration  and  enjoyment.  The  chaste  nun's  treat- 
ment of  her  subjects,  which  in  most  cases  contain  themes  of 
sensual  passion,  is  of  course  on  a  much  higher  plane  of 
morality  than  are  those  of  her  pagan  models,  and  her  char- 
acters sacrifice  their  lives  in  triumphing  over  the  force  of 
temptation. 

In  form,  however,  the  dramas  of  Hrosvitha  are  not 
Terentian:  they  are  written  in  prose,  with  an  attempt  at 
rhythm  and  at  times  even  an  admixture  of  rhyme.  But  they 
are  the  productions  of  a  genius  and  incidentally  afford  an 
insight  into  the  sciences  of  her  day ;"  neither  are  they  litur- 
gical in  character;    nor  are  they  mystery  plays,  since  they 

-xix- 


Introduction 

differ  utterly  from  these  performances;  they  are  mere 
comedies  of  manner.  It  was  their  peculiar  individuality  and 
their  strange  medley  of  Christian  and  pagan  tendencies 
which  made  one  writer  exclaim : 

Aided  by  the  light  of  this  spark  of  sacred  fire, 
snatched  from  the  altar  of  Dionysos  to  illumine 
a  Christian  shrine,  the  new  drama  is  revealed  lying 
in  the  lap  of  the  old,  and  the  link  between  the 
comedy  of  Terence  and  the  comedy  of  Shakespeare 
is  recovered.  Though  it  had  no  immediate  follow- 
ing, Hrosvitha's  work  is  of  the  new,  the  modern 
epoch,  for  it  shows  the  form  the  Latin  Drama  as- 
sumed in  Teutonic  hands,  and  in  the  service  of  the 
new  deal." 

Let  us  now  turn  to  Hrosvitha's  last  book,  her  two 
historical  epics,  the  one  the  panegj^ric  on  the  House  of  the 
Ottos,  the  other  the  history  of  her  own  loved  Gandersheim. 
There  is  a  special  excellence  in  these  poems  because  of  the 
conscientious  adherence  of  the  writer  to  historical  facts. 
She  herself  asserts  that  there  was  for  her  use  no  written 
material,  and  that  she  wrote  what  was  told  her  by  the  mem- 
bers of  the  royal  family  and  by  Gerberga.^*  Although  but 
partly  extant,  the  History  of  the  Ottos  may  be  regarded  as  a 
historical  authority,  relating  not  so  much  the  events  of  a 
period  as  rather  the  family  history  of  the  reigning  prince. 
In  this,  as  also  in  the  companion  epic,  the  Story  of  Ganders- 
heim, Hrosvitha  is  at  her  best  both  as  regards  diction  and 
meter.  Yet  perhaps  none  of  her  works  have  suffered  mutila- 
tion and  correction  to  the  same  extent  as  these  two  poems 
have.2= 

Hrosvitha  reveals  in  her  writings  most  of  the  peculiarities 
of  the  age  in  which  she  lived.  Her  language  savors  of  her 
times  and  of  her  mode  of  life;  she  coins  many  words, 
accomplishing  this  by  joining  particles  with  other  words  in 
a  hitherto  unknown  combination.  Thus  we  find  in  her  a 
special  fondness  for  the  particle  tenus  in  the  sense  of  'as 
far  as* ;  this  she  combines  with  other  words  in  such  a  way 
that  one  is  minded  that  our  poet  is  carrying  out  the  callida 
iunctura  of  the  Venusian  bard.    Such  a  felicitous  combina- 


Introduction 

tion  is  finetenus,  which  is  apparently  a  hapax  legomenon  of 
Hrosvitha.  She  finds  also  new  uses  for  such  words  as 
fdctura,  a  creature;  poenitudo,  punishment;  and  almities, 
kindness.  Her  choice  of  metrical  scheme  necessitates  an 
excessive  use  of  diminutives  which  are  only  in  a  few  in- 
stances used  in  the  sense  of  tenderness  or  diminution.  This 
same  reason  makes  her  take  refuge  in  such  archaic  forms  as 
mis  and  tis,  and  in  the  infinitive  of  Plautine  times  in  -ier. 
With  many  of  the  mediaeval  writers  she  uses  interchange- 
ably ex  for  de;  a  present  participle  for  a  finite  verb ;  fore  for 
esse;  the  pluperfect  tense  for  the  perfect;  suus  for  eius; 
quis  for  quibus;  the  ordinals  for  the  numerals,  and  other 
peculiarities  of  her  age.^*'  Her  spelling  too  shows  great 
inconsistency,  for  she  often  alters  the  orthography  to  suit 
her  meter.  Her  accent  shifts  to  accomodate  her  metrical 
scheme ;  the  long  vowel  frequently  becomes  short,  and  vice 
versa.  These  irregularities  are  partly  responsible  for  the 
wholesale  corrections  which  Conrad  Celtes  made  on  Hros- 
vitha's  manuscript.  His  emendations  seem  to  indicate  that 
he  was  not  aware  of  the  rhyming  scheme  which  the  poetess 
was  using,  and  in  making  his  apparent  improvements  he 
sacrificed  rhyme  for  the  sake  of  grammatical  or  metrical 
accuracy.^^ 

Hrosvitha's  works  reveal  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
Fathers  and  the  Christian  writers ;  she  borrows  extensive- 
ly from  Prudentius,  Sedulius,  and  Paul  the  Deacon.  The 
Waltharilied  of  Ekkehard  supplied  material  for  her  histo- 
rical epics;  but  Hrosvitha  knew  also  the  classics,  and 
Horace,  Virgil,  Ovid,  Plautus,  and  Terence,  as  also  Lucre- 
tius, left  traces  of  their  works  in  the  legends  and  dramas  of 
the  nun.^** 

True,  there  are  many  deviations  from  the  canon  of  the 
classic  writers,  but  Hrosvitha  was  a  child  of  her  times.  Her 
works  bear  the  impress  of  her  piety  and  innocence,  not  only 
in  the  selection  of  her  themes  but  also  in  her  choice  of  dic- 
tion. The  holy  enthusiasm  which  she  evinces  in  the  denun- 
ciation of  the  vices  she  aims  to  counteract,  and  her  love  for 
the  virtues  she  desires  to  inculcate,  make  her  language  vivid 


Introduction 

and  at  times  reverent.  She  chooses  words  for  this  purpose, 
which,  though  strange  in  their  construction  and  euphony, 
are  nevertheless  well-fitted  to  voice  her  sentiments.^^ 

In  closing  the  account  of  Hrosvitha's  life  and  activity  we 
may  well  quote  some  of  the  criticisms  by  noted  scholars. 
Her  compatriot  Willibald  Pirkheimer  has  honored  her  with 
a  Greek  distich,^"  in  which  he  suggests  that  if  we  honor 
Sappho  as  a  tenth  muse,  Hrosvitha  may  well  be  considered 
the  eleventh.  And  Adolf  Ebert  writes :  "This  fruitful  talent 
which  lacks  not  the  inspiration  and  the  courage  of  genius 
to  enter  upon  new  ground,  evinces  how  the  Saxon  element 
was  chosen  to  guide  the  Geraian  nation  in  the  domain  of 
art.""  The  French  translator  of  her  comedies,  C.  Magnin, 
in  his  preface  to  his  Theatre  de  Hrosvitha  speaks  of  her  as 
"the  wonder  of  Saxony  and  the  glory  of  all  Europe" ;  but 
she  would  modestly  resent  the  eulogy  of  one  who  writes : 

Conning  the  simple  yet  full  and  beautiful  life  of 
Hrosvitha,  the  nun-poet  and  dramatist,  is  like  hap- 
pening upon  some  calm,  cool,  and  green-bowered 
haven,  after  a  long  journey  in  the  heat  and  dust 
of  a  summer's  day.^^ 

NOTES  ON  THE  INTRODUCTION 

1  Dorer,  Ed.,  Rosiuitha,  die  Nonne  aus  Gandersheim  1-3 ;  Schmid, 
Otto  von  Luebeck,  "Roswitha"  in  Allgemeine  Deutsche  Biographie  29: 
292-294;  Barack,  K.  A.,  Opera  Hrosvithae  xiv-xix;  Schurzfleisch, 
"Hrosvitha"  in  Migne  137:964-966;  Manitius,  M.,  Geschichte  der 
Lateinischen  Literatur  des  Mittelalters  2.619;  Sandys,  J.  E.,  History 
of  Classical  Scholarship  2.  487. 

2  Aschbach,  Jos.  von  Ritter,  Hroswitha  imd  Konrad  Celtes  1-62; 
Koepke,  R.,  "Hroswitha  von  Gandersheim"  in  Otto7iische  Studien 
2:1-25;  Hudson,  H.,  "Roswitha  of  Gandersheim"  in  English  Historical 
Review  3:  (July  1888)  435  note  2;  Gundlach,  Wm.,  Hroswithas  Otto- 
lied"  in  Heldenlieder  der  Deutschen  Kaiserzeit  1:207;  see  also 
"Memoirs  of  Charitas  Pirkheimer"  in  Eckenstein,  L.,  Women  under 
Monasticism  458-476. 

3  Strecker,  K.,  i-xii;  Barack,  K.  A.,  xi-xiv;  Winterfeld,  Paulus 
de,  Hrosvithae  Opera  i-xv;  Pertz,  D.,  "Hroswitha"  in  Migne  137:1130- 
1135;  Schurzfleisch,  H.  L.,  945-960;    Hudson,  H.  431;  Schmid,  0.,  294. 

*  Barack,  K.  A.,  Iv-lxiii ;  Strecker,  K.,  vii-xi. 

-xxii- 


Introduction 

5  This  nun  was  abbess  of  Gandersheim  from  919  to  927;  compare 
Encyclopedia  Brittannica  13-14:   (ed.  11)  842. 

6  A  reproduction  of  this  wood-cut  may  be  seen  in  Der  Grosse  Herder 
6:    (ed.  4,  1931)   189-190. 

^  They  would  have  the  "H"  of  Hrosvitha  as  the  initial  of  her 
Christian  name  Helen  contract  with  the  family  name  "Rossow."  Com- 
pare Schmid,  293. 

8  Compare  Schmid,  loc.  cit.;  also  Dorer,  17. 

»  The  abbess  in  such  a  monastery  held  her  power  direct  from  the 
king.    Compare  Blashfield,  Ev.,  Portraits  and  Backgro^inds  16. 

10  For  this  date  compare  Strecker,  K.,  iii ;  Der  Grosse  Herder  189 ; 
Buchberger,  M.,  Lexikon  fuer  Theologie  und  Kirche  5:162;  The  New 
International  Encyclopedia  20:172. 

11  Dorer,  Ed.,  15;  Barack,  K.  A.,  vii-ix;  Pfund,  Th.,  Hrosivithas 
Gedicht  neber  Gandersheims  Gruendung  und  die  Taten  Oddos  (Ueber- 
setzt)  vi;  Schurzfleisch,  H.  L.,  943;  Baumgartner,  A.,  S.  J.,  Die  La^ 
teinische  und  Griechische  Literatur  der  Christlichen  Voelker  4:335; 
Ebert,  A.,  Literature  des  Mittelalters  im  Abendlande  3:285-286;  Raby, 
F.  J.,  A  History  of  Christian  Latin  Poetry  208;  The  New  Inter- 
national Encyclopedia  loc.  cit. 

12  Compare  note  to  verse  7. 

13  Compare  Dorer,  Ed.,  20. 

14  Compare  Grimm  J.  und  Schwelle  A.,  Lateinische  Gedichte  der 
Zehnten  und  Elften  Jahrhunderte  xix. 

15  Strecker  K.,  113.9. 

"  Compare  Ebert,  A.,  loc.  cit. 

"  Strecker,  K.,  2.2-5. 

17a  op.  cit.,  53. 

18  Compare  also  Hudson,  H.,  3:438-439. 

20  Apocryphal  New  Testament  1-5. 

21  See  "Index  Verborum"  in  Winterfeld,  P.,  543. 

22  Compare  especially  Hrosvitha's  dramas:  Sapientia  3.9-24;  Paf- 
nutius  1.3-22. 

23  Compare  Blashfield,  Ev.,  9. 
2*  Strecker,  K.,  228.  11-15. 

^^  Hudson,  H.,  431;  Schmid,  0.,  294. 

28  Compare  "Index  Verborum"  in  Winterfeld,  P.,  251. 

2T  Barack,  K.  A.,  xi. 

28  loc.  cit.  note  25, 

29  Such  words  are:  celsithronus,  caelicolis,  lucifluus,  flavicomantis, 
Agnus  Tonantis,  and  others. 

-  xxiii  - 


IntrodtLction 

30  The  distich  reads :    "ct  SaTr^co  heKCLT-q  fiovadcov  eariv  aS6vra>v, 
'PoxTySia  evSeKUTi]  fiovaa  /caT07pa(^6Tai." 

The  Latin  translation  is  by  Celtes:  "Si  Sappho  decima  est  Musarum 
dulce  canentum,  Hrosvitha  scribenda  est  undecima  Aonidum."  Com- 
pare W inter f eld,  xiv. 

^^Ebert,  A.  3:  285. 

32  Quoted   from   Plumpe,   C.   J.,   in   "Hrosvitha,   Nun-poetess   and 
Dramatist,"  America  34:     (April  3,  1926)  p.  589. 


Hrosvithae  Liber  Primus 


Maria 
Ascensio 
Gongolfus 
Pelagius 
Theophilus 
Basilius 
Dionysius 
Agnes 


7^26  Apocrypha 


The  ancient  Christians  of  the  Orient  drew  most  of  their 
literary  material  from  the  Scriptures.  The  best  talents 
busied  themselves  in  the  translation,  explanation,  and  appli- 
cation of  the  Bible  and  the  writings  of  the  Apostles. 

These  sources  were  practically  the  only  material  for  the 
monks  and  hermits  of  ancient  Egypt,  Palestine,  and  Syria; 
the  only  material  of  study  for  the  schools  of  Antioch,  Alexan- 
dria, and  Edessa;  a  weapon  and  guide  for  the  great 
Fathers  of  the  Church  in  their  defense  of  the  true  faith. 
The  noblest  and  most  enlightened  spirits  of  the  age  found 
in  these  books  the  spiritual  satisfaction  which  the  pagan 
philosophers  had  been  unable  to  furnish. 

Not  the  least  insignificant  development  of  this  trend  we 
have  in  the  apocrypha.  The  word  aprocryphon,  a  Greek 
term,  meaning  "hidden"  or  "spurious,"  connotes  two  quite 
distinct  classes  of  writings.  The  one  originated  in  the  mind 
of  the  Hebrew  nation,  revealing  every  appearance  of  phan- 
tasy, heresy,  and  personal  imagination ;  the  other  was  of  a 
more  Christian  character,  which,  although  uncanonical,  was 
originally  not  in  direct  conflict  with  revelation.  These  writ- 
ings serve  but  little  as  dogmatic  or  exegetic  treatises,  but 
they  are  often  the  expression  of  a  harmless  tradition,  and  as 
a  source  for  the  later  Christian  legends  and  the  literature  of 
the  times  they  are  of  no  small  importance.  Then  too  they 
are  not  without  a  certain  poetic  chann. 

Even  from  the  time  of  the  Apostles  man  was  possessed 
of  a  certain  pious  curiosity  to  know  more  of  the  life  of  the 
Savior  and  of  His  loved  Mother  and  foster-father.  The 
piety  of  the  faithful  did  not,  however,  always  adhere  to 
truth,  and  many  were  the  stories  and  legends  which  their 
pious  imaginations  devised. 

In  those  early  days  of  pagan  converts  and  dangerous  here- 
sies, the  Church  felt  constrained  to  use  every  precaution. 


The  Apocrypha 

Therefore,  although  never  officially  condemned,  the  apo- 
crypha were  looked  at  askance  by  most  of  the  early  Fathers. 
But  after  the  dangers  from  heresy  and  misinterpretation 
were  over,  these  writings  lost  much  of  their  stigma ;  and  in 
the  Middle  Ages  they  formed  a  veritable  flower  garden  in 
which  poetic  souls  delighted  to  their  hearts'  content. 

Most  of  these  apocrypha  treated  of  subjects  in  the  life  of 
our  Blessed  Lady  and  the  early  years  of  the  Savior.  Thus 
the  proto-evangelium  of  Saint  James  the  Younger,  com- 
posed originally  in  Greek  but  translated  into  Syrian,  Coptic, 
and  Arabic,  held  a  high  reputation  in  the  Oriental  Church 
and  was  used  even  for  public  reading  on  the  feasts  of  the 
Blessed  Mother.  In  the  Western  Church  its  entrance  was 
deferred  until  the  sixth  century. 

There  is  also  a  gospel  of  the  pseudo-Matthew  which  has 
its  source  in  this  apocryphon  of  the  pseudo-James.  It  was 
composed  by  a  heretic  in  the  sixth  century  and  was  written 
in  Latin. 

It  was  these  two  sources  that  formed  the  material  for 
Hrosvitha's  Maria,  and  partly  also  for  the  Ascensio.  She 
tells  us  that  she  selected  her  legends  from  the  gospel  of 
Saint  James,  the  kinsman  of  Christ,  but  she  was  ignorant 
of  the  fact  that  these  were  not  genuine.  From  the 
apocryphon  of  the  pseudo-James,  she  culled  the  incidents 
relating  the  birth,  education,  and  marriage  of  the  Blessed 
Virgin.  Here  it  was  that  she  learned  that  Mary  was  the 
miraculous  offspring  of  Joachim  and  Anna,  previously  child- 
less, and  that  she  was  dedicated  in  the  temple;  and  that 
furthermore  in  a  miraculous  manner  Saint  Joseph  was 
chosen  as  her  spouse. 

The  pseudo-gospel  of  Saint  Matthew  furnished  her  with 
other  narratives,  although  it  seems  that  in  Hrosvitha's  day 
the  two  pseudo-gospels  were  not  distinguished.  In  this  nar- 
rative, reputedly  translated  from  the  Greek  by  Saint 
Jerome,  she  found  the  story  of  the  incidents  associated  with 
the  flight  into  Egypt,  namely  the  dragons  and  lions  adoring 
the  Child;  the  palm  bending  at  His  behest;  the  idols  of 
Egypt  falling  shattered  at  His  entrance. 


The  Apocrypha 

Hrosvitha  tells  us  in  the  introduction  to  her  first  book 
that  she  was  ignorant  of  the  unauthenticity  of  her  sources, 
and  that  when  instructed  she  ceased  to  use  them.  Yet  the 
charm  of  her  simplicity  and  her  naive  manner  of  narration 
will  serve  rather  to  instil  piety  than  distorted  notions  of 
religion.  As  folk-lore  and  romance  her  sources  are  precious, 
and  for  the  student  of  mediaeval  literature  and  art,  they 
form  a  valuable  resort  for  interpreting  the  imaginations, 
hopes,  and  fears  of  the  age.  No  one  who  is  acquainted  with 
the  true  Gospel  can  be  misled  by  the  legends  and  stories  of 
these  pseudo-gospels. 


See  also  Baumgartner,  Alex.,  S.  J.,  Die  Literaturen  Westasieris 
und  der  Nillaender  1:158-179;  also  Dorer,  Ed.,  20;  Raid,  G.  J.,  "Apo- 
crypha" in  the  Catholic  Encyclopedia  1:601-615;  see  also  Gebbie  and 
Co.,  The  Apocryphal  New  Testament  1-5. 


LIBER    PRIMUS 


PREFATIO 

Hunc  libellum,/  parvo  ullius  decoris  ornamentum,/ 
sed  non  parva  diligentia  inlaboratum,/  omnium  sapien- 
tium  benignitate  offero  expurgandum,/  eorum  dum- 
taxat,  qui  erranti  non  delectantur  derogare,/  sed  magis 
errata  corrigere./  Fateor  namque,/  me  haut  medio- 
criter  errasse/  non  solum  in  dinoscendis  syllabarum 
naturis,/  verum  etiam  in  dictionibus  componendis,/ 
pluraque  sub  hac  serie/  reprehensione  dignare  lati- 
tare ;/  sed  erroris  f atenti  facilis  venia/  vitiisque  debe- 
tur  pia  correctio./ 

10  Si  autem  obicitur,  quod  quaedam  huius  operis/  iuxta 

quorundam  aestimationem  sumpta  sint  ex  apocrifis,/ 
non  est  crimen  praesumptionis  iniquae,/  sed  error  ig- 
norantiae,/  quia,  quando  huius  stamen  seriei/  coeperam 
ordiri,/  ignoravi  dubia  esse,/  in  quibus  disposui  labo- 
rare./  At  ubi  recognovi,/  pessumdare  detractavi,/  quia, 
quod  videtur  falsitas,/  forsan  probabitur  esse  Veritas./ 


Cum  res  sese  ita  habeant,/  tanto/  ad  perfecti  defen- 
sionem  opusculi/  permultorum  iuvamine  egeo,/  quanto 
in  ipsa  inceptione/  minus  ulla/  proprii  vigoris  fulciebar 
sufRcientia./  Quia  nee  matura  adhuc  aetate  vigens/ 
20  nee  scientia  fui  proficiens,/  sed  nee  alicui  sapientium/ 
affectum  meae  intentionis  consulendo  praesumsi 
enucleare,/  ne  prohiberer  pro  rusticitate./ 


6 


FIRST     BOOK 


PREFACE 

This  little  volume,  adorned  with  but  slight  charm  of 
style,  but  nevertheless  labored  upon  with  no  little 
effort,  I  offer  for  the  criticism  of  those  kindly  and 
learned  minds  who  take  pleasure,  not  in  exposing  to 
ridicule  a  writer's  faults  but  rather  in  correcting  them. 
For  I  admit  that  I  have  made  many  errors  not  only  in 
prosody  but  also  in  literary  composition,  and  that 
there  is  much  to  be  discovered  in  this  collection  which 
is  deserving  of  severe  censure.  But  by  admitting  my 
shortcomings  I  may  expect  a  ready  pardon,  and  a 
kindly  correction  of  my  errors. 

Moreover,  if  the  objection  is  made  that,  according  to  10 
the  judgment  of  some,  portions  of  this  work  have  been 
borrowed  from  apocryphal  sources:  to  this  I  would 
answer  that  I  have  erred  through  ignorance  and  not 
through  reprehensible  presumption.  For  when  I 
started  to  weave  the  thread  of  this  collection,  I  was 
not  aware  of  the  fact  that  the  authenticity  of  the 
material  upon  which  I  planned  to  work  was  question- 
able. When  I  discovered  the  real  state  of  affairs,  I 
declined  to  discard  my  subject  matter,  on  the  plea  that 
what  appears  to  be  false,  may  eventually  be  proved  to 
be  true. 

Under  such  conditions,  my  need  of  the  assistance  of 
many  in  defending  this  little  work  now  completed  is 
in  exact  proportion  to  my  lack  of  native  ability  for  the 
task  at  its  inception.  For  as  I  was  both  young  in  years 
and  not  much  advanced  in  learning,  I  did  not  have  20 
the  courage  to  make  known  my  intention  by  consulting 
any  of  the  learned,  for  fear  that  they  would  put  a  stop 
to  my  work  because  of  its  crudeness  of  style. 

-7- 


Preface 

Unde  clam  cunctis  et  quasi  furtim,/  nunc  in  com- 
ponendis  sola  desudando,/  nunc  male  composita  de- 
struendo,  satagebam/  iuxta  meum  posse,  licet  minima 
necessarium,/  aliquem  tamen  conficere  textum/  ex 
sententiis  scripturarum,/  quas  intra  aream  nostri/ 
Gandeshemensis  collegeram  coenobii:/  primo/  sapien- 
30  tissimae/  atque  benignissimae/  Rikkardis  magistrae/ 
aliarumque  suae  vicis  instruente  magisterio,/  deinde 
prona  favente  dementia/  regiae  indolis  Gerbergae,/ 
cuius  nunc  subdor  dominio  abbatissae./  Quae  aetate 
minor,/  sed,  ut  imperialem  decebat  neptem,/  scientia 
provectior,/  aliquot  auctores,  quos  ipsa  prior  sapien- 
tissimis  didicit,/  me  admodum  pie  erudivit. 


Quamvis  etiam  metrica  modulatio/  femineae  fra- 
gilitati  difficilis  videatur  et  ardua,/  solo  tamen  semper 
miserentis  supernae  gratiae  auxilio,/  non  propriis 
viribus,  confisa,/  huius  carmina  opusculi/  dactilicis 
modulis  succinere  apposui,/  ne  crediti/  talentum  in- 
40  genioli/  sub  obscuro/  torpens  pectoris  [antro]/  rubi- 
gine/  exterminaretur  neglegentias,/  sed  sedulo  malleo 
devotionis  percussum/  aliquantulum  divinae  lauda- 
tionis  referret  tinnitum,/  quo,  si  occasio  non  daretur 
negotiando  aliud  lucrari,/  ipsum  tamen  in  aliquod  sal- 
tim  extremae  utilitatis  transformaretur  instrumen- 
tum./ 


Unde  quicumque  lector,  si  recte  et  secundum  Deum 

sapias,/   egenti    paginae,/   quae   nullius   praeceptoris 

munitur  auctoritate,/  opem  tuae  rectitudinis  ne  pi- 

50       griteris  adhibere,/  Deo  videlicet,  si  quid  forte  probetur 

recte  compositum,/  meaeque  neglegentiae  designando 


8 


Preface 

Unknown  to  others  and  secretly,  so  to  speak,  I 
worked  alone.  Sometimes  I  composed  with  great  effort, 
again  I  destroyed  what  I  had  poorly  written;  and 
thus  I  strove  according  to  my  ability,  scarcely  ade- 
quate though  that  was,  none  the  less  to  complete  a 
composition  from  the  thoughts  in  the  writings  with 
which  I  had  become  acquainted  within  the  confines  of 
our  monastery  at  Gandersheim :  first  through  the  in- 
structive guidance  of  our  learned  and  kindly  teacher 
Rikkardis,  and  of  others  who  taught  in  her  stead ;  and  30 
then  through  the  gracious  considerateness  of  the  royal 
Gerberga,  under  whose  rule  as  abbess  I  am  living  at 
present.  Though  she  is  younger  in  years  than  I  am, 
yet,  as  befits  a  niece  of  the  Emperor,  she  is  farther 
advanced  in  learning,  and  she  it  was  who  right  kindly 
instructed  me  in  those  various  authors  whom  she  her- 
self studied  under  the  guidance  of  learned  teachers. 

Even  though  the  art  of  prosody  may  seem  difficult 
and  arduous  for  one  of  my  feeble  sex,  nevertheless, 
relying  solely  on  the  aid  of  merciful  grace  from  above 
and  not  trusting  in  my  own  strength,  I  have  attempted 
to  sing  the  songs  of  this  little  collection  in  dactylic 
strains.  Solicitous  that  the  slight  talent  of  ability 
given  me  by  Heaven  should  not  lie  idle  in  the  dark  40 
recesses  of  the  mind  and  thus  be  destroyed  by  the  rust 
of  neglect,  I  submitted  it  under  the  mallet  of  ready 
devotion,  so  that  thus  it  might  sound  some  little  chord 
of  Divine  praise.  Thus,  though  I  had  not  the  oppor- 
tunity to  achieve  any  other  gain  through  use  of  that 
talent,  it  might  at  least  be  transformed  into  an  instru- 
ment of  value  at  the  end. 

Wherefore,  gentle  reader,  whosoever  thou  mayest 
be,  if  thou  art  truly  wise  before  God,  do  not  hesitate 
to  lend  the  assistance  of  thy  correcting  power  to  the 
poor  page  which  lacks  the  skill  of  a  master  hand. 
If,  however,  thou  findest  something  which  is  worthy  50 
of  approval,  give  credit  to  God  for  this  success  and 


Preface 

universale  vitiorum,/  nee  tamen  vituperando,/  sed 
indulgendo,/  quia  vis  frangitur  obiurgationis,/  ubi 
intei^venit  humilitas  confessionis./ 


10 


Preface 

at  the  same  time  ascribe  all  the  blemishes  to  my  lack 
of  care. 

Let  this  be  done,  however,  not  in  a  spirit  of  censure, 
but  of  kindliness;  for  the  keen  edge  of  censure  is 
blunted  when  it  encounters  the  humility  of  self- 
deprecation. 


NOTES  ON  THE  PREFACE  TO 
LIBER  PRIMUS 

There  is  a  translation  of  Hrosvitha's  prefaces  in  Christopher 
St.  John,  The  Plays  of  Roswitha  (translated)  pp.  xxvi-xxxv. 
6.  dinoscendis  syllabarum  naturis:  it  is  true  that  there  are  fre- 
quent departures  from  classical  quantities  in  the  poems. 

23.  pro  rusticitate:  "in  view  of,  because  of  crudeness  of  style"; 
Hrosvitha  frequently  uses  pro  in  this  sense, 

29.       magistrae:    perhaps,  "mistress  of  novices." 

33.  imperialem  neptem:  Gerberga  was  the  daughter  of  the  Duke 
of  Bavaria,  the  brother  of  Otto,  the  emperor. 

41.  crediti  talentum  ingenioli:  for  this  and  its  elaboration,  see 
the  "Parable  of  the  Talents," 


11 


AD  GERBERGAM 

Salve,  regalis  prolis  clarissima  stirpis, 

Gerbig,  illustris  moribus  et  studiis. 
Accipe  fronticula,  dominatrix  alma,  serena, 

Quae  tibi  purganda  offero  carminula, 
Eius  et  incultos  dignanter  dirige  stichos, 

Quam  doctrina  tua  instruit  egregia; 
Et,  cum  sis  certe  vario  lassata  labore, 

Ludens  dignare  hos  modules  legere, 
Hanc  quoque  sordidulam  tempta  purgare  camenam 

Ac  fulcire  tui  flore  magisterii. 
Quo  laudem  dominae  studium  supportet  alumnae 

Doctricique  piae  carmina  discipulae. 


-12 


DEDICATION  TO  GERBERGA 

Hail,  illustrious  offspring  of  a  royal  race !  Gerberga, 
renowned  for  thy  character  and  thy  learning.  Foster- 
ing Mistress,  do  thou  accept  with  kindly  mien  these 
little  verses  which  I  offer  for  thy  correction ;  and  do 
thou  graciously  direct  the  crude  measures  of  her  whom 
thine  excellent  precepts  instruct.  And  when  thou  art 
indeed  wearied  with  thy  manifold  labors,  do  thou 
deign  to  recreate  thyself  in  the  conning  of  those 
measures,  and  attempt  to  purify  the  unlovely  muse 
and  to  uphold  her  by  the  prestige  of  thine  office. 

Thus  may  the  zeal  of  the  pupil  enhance  the  praise  of 
the  mistress,  and  the  poems  of  the  devoted  disciple, 
the  praise  of  the  teacher. 


NOTES  ON  THE  DEDICATIO 

4.  piirgarula  offcro:  note  the  hiatus;  the  ultima  of  purganda  is 
short,  but  is  here  lengthened  under  the  ictus;  see  also  tua, 
verse  6;     digmire,  verse  8. 

5.  stichos:    the  short  penult  is  lengthened;    nietri  causa. 
8.       modulos:     the  diminutive  for  modos. 

12.  piae:  might  go  with  either  or  both  doctrici  and  discipulae;  for 
such  occurrence  compare:  "Haec  me  consiliis  vicit  devicta 
sinistris,"  Avitus  3.  100,  which  might  read:  "She  having  been 
vanquished  by  baneful  counsels,  conquered  me;"  or,  "She  hav- 
ing been  vanquished  conquered  me  with  baneful  counsels." 


13 


HISTORIA  NATIVITATIS  LAUDABILISQUE  CONVER- 

SATIONIS  INT  ACT AE  DEI  GENITRICIS 

QUAM  SCRIPTAM  REPPERI  SUB  NOMINE  SANCTI 

lACOBI  FRATRIS  DOMINI. 

Unica  Spes  Mundi  Dominatrix  Inclita  Caeli 

Sancta  parens  regis,  lucida  stella  maris, 
Quae  parens  mundo  restaurasti,  pia  virgo, 

Vitam,  quam  virgo  perdiderat  vetula! 
Tu  dignare  tuae  famulae  clementer  adesse 

Hrotsvithae  votis  carminulisque  novis, 
Quae  tibi  femineae  studio  famulante  camenae 
20  lam  supplex  modulis  succino  dactilicis, 

Exoptans  vel  summatim  attingere  saltim 

Laudis  particulam,  virgo,  tuae  minimam 
Ortus  atque  tui  primordia  clara  beati 

Necnon  regalem  pangere  progeniem. 
Hoc  tamen  agnosco  f  ragiles  excedere  vires 

Ut  temptem  laude  te  merita  canere, 
Digne  pro  meritis  quam  totus  non  canit  orbis 

Quaeque  super  laudes  angelicas  renites, 
30       Hunc  quia  virgineo  portasti  ventre  puella 

Inclusum,  cuncta  qui  regit  imperio. 
Olim  sed  stultum  fari  qui  iussit  asellum 

In  laudem  sancti  nominis  ille  sui 
Teque  per  angelicum  fecit,  virguncula,  verbum 

De  sancto  digne  flamine  concipere 
Atque  suae  prolis  matrem  sine  sorde  pudoris 

Eff ecit  cunctis  dissimilem  meritis : 
Si  placet,  ipse  meam  potis  est  dissolvere  linguam 

Et  cor  rore  suae  tangere  gratiolae, 
40       Quo  praestante  suae  mitis  dono  pietatis 

Grata  sibi  pangam,  te  quoque,  virgo,  canam, 
Ne  comes  ingratis  condampner  iure  pigellis, 

Quos  piget  altithrono  psallere  pro  modulo, 
Sed  mage  purpureum  laudare  perenniter  agnum 

Promerear,  turmis  addita  virgineis. 

-14- 


HISTORY  OF  THE  NATIVITY  AND  OF  THE  PRAISE- 
WORTHY CONVERSATION  OF  THE  IMMACULATE  MOTH- 
ER OF  GOD,  WHICH  I  HAVE  FOUND  IN  THE  WORKS  OF 
SAINT  JAMES,  THE  KINSMAN  OF  THE  LORD. 

Hail!  Sole  Hope  of  the  world,  Illustrious  Queen 
of  the  heavens,  Holy  Mother  of  the  King,  Resplendent 
Star  of  the  Sea ;  who,  0  sweet  Virgin,  hast  by  obedi- 
ence restored  to  the  world  that  life  which  the  virgin 
of  old  forfeited.  Do  thou  graciously  deign  to  assist 
the  prayers  and  new  little  songs  of  thy  handmaiden 
Hrosvitha,  who  with  zeal  ministering  to  my  womanly  20 
muse,  do  now  suppliantly  sing  in  dactylic  measures, 
desiring  to  touch,  if  ever  so  lightly,  upon  a  tiny 
portion  of  the  praise  which  is  thine,  and  to  celebrate 
the  bright  beginnings  of  thy  blessed  origin  and  also 
thy  royal  Child.  However,  I  am  conscious  that  any 
effort  of  mine  to  sing  thy  merited  praise  far  exceeds 
my  feeble  powers,  for  the  whole  world  cannot  ade- 
quately extol  thee,  who  shinest  far  beyond  the  praises 
of  the  angels,  since  thou  as  a  Virgin  hast  carried  in  thy 
chaste  womb  Him  Who  rules  and  sways  the  universe.  30 
But  He  Who  once  commanded  a  mute  beast  to  speak 
in  praise  of  His  sacred  Name,  and  Who  at  the  words  of 
the  angel  caused  thee,  0  tender  maiden,  to  conceive 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  has  made  thee  the  Mother,  all- 
incomparable,  of  His  Son,  without  violation  of  thy  vir- 
ginity: He,  if  it  please  Him,  is  able  to  loose  the 
strings  of  my  tongue  and  to  touch  my  heart  with  the 
dew  of  His  grace.  And  thus  assisted  by  the  gift  of  His 
tender  kindness,  I  will  render  thanks  to  Him,  and  sing 
thee  also,  0  Virgin,  lest  I  be  condemned — and  rightly  40 
so — as  a  companion  to  those  ungrateful  and  slothful 
servants  who  neglect  to  send  according  to  their  ability 
praise  to  the  Most  High  throned;  but  rather  may  I 
merit  to  be  united  to  the  choirs  of  virgins  and  to 
praise  eternally  the  crimson  Lamb  of  God. 

-15- 


The  Maria 

Mundi  labentis  lustris  nam  mille  peractis 
Incepit  quando  felix  aetatula  sexta, 
Qua  Deus  impleri  iussit  pietate  fideli, 
Quicquid  veraces  iam  praecinuere  prophetae, 
Qui  mundo  lesum  mox  praedixere  futurum, 

50       Gemiine  de  luda  quidam  surrexerat  ergo 
Israhel  in  terra  senior  sub  lege  vetusta, 
Ortus  regali  David  de  germine  magni, 
Quern  tradunt  etenim  nomen  tenuisse  loachim. 
Hie  in  mandatis  genitricis  ab  ubere  legis 
Extiterat  iustus  necnon  digne  studiosus; 
Hoc  quoque  continuo  fuerat  sua  maxima  cura, 
Ut  gregis  ipse  sui  bene  pasceret  agmina  magni, 
Designans  veri  sese  pastoris  haberi 
Dignum  quandoquidem  terrestri  carne  parentem, 

60       Qui  portare  suos  humeris  non  distulit  agnos 
In  propriis,  vitae  ducens  ad  gaudia  laetae, 
Passui'us  mortem  magnum  nostri  per  amorem 
Empturusque  reos  animae  pretio  pie  carae. 

Hie  heros  etenim,  de  quo  narrabo,  loachim, 
Tali  percerti  felix  patriarcha  nepote, 
Toto  se  placidis  ornans  conamine  factis, 
Quicquid  possedit,  per  tres  partis  resecavit. 
Partem  dans  viduis,  peregrinis  atque  pupillis, 
Saepius  in  templo  partem  famulantibus  ergo, 

70       Particulamque  suae  domui  servaverat  omni. 
Hoc  quoque  non  raro  faciens  pietate  benigna, 
Digne  mercedem  suscepit  denique  talem, 
Ut  propria  substantiola  bene  multiplicata 
Ipsius  gentis  proceres  praecelleret  omnes 
Nee  sibi  consimilem  portaret  terra  potentem, 
Quem  sic  cunctarum  fulciret  copia  rerum. 
Quattuor  hie  certe  cum  iam  feliciter  ipse 
Volveret  in  summa  fortuna  lustra  rotata, 
Vultu  praepulchram  sibi  desponsavit  amicam 

80       Necnon  praenitidam  laudandis  moribus,  Annam, 
Acharis  natam,  David  de  stirpe  creatam, 
Foedere  legali  proprio  quam  iunxit  amori. 

-16- 


The  Maria 

When  one  thousand  lustra  of  the  gliding  world 
had  been  completed,  that  happy  era  began  in  which 
God  with  faithful  solicitude  ordered  all  things  to  be 
fulfilled  which  the  prophets  had  long  since  foretold, 
predicting  that  Jesus  would  soon  come  into  the  world ; 
and  now  in  the  tribe  of  Juda  there  was  a  certain  old  50 
man  of  the  ancient  law,  sprung  from  the  royal  house 
of  David,  who,  they  say,  was  called  Joachim,  This 
man  had  from  earliest  infancy  lived  justly,  zealously, 
and  holily.  It  was  for  him  a  source  of  great  solicitude 
to  lead  his  vast  herds  unto  rich  pasturage,  striving 
thus  to  be  truly  a  good  shepherd  and  a  worthy  parent 
in  the  flesh,  of  Him  indeed,  Who  did  not  disdain  to 
carry  upon  His  own  shoulders  His  own  sheep,  leading 
them  to  the  joys  of  a  happy  life ;  ready  to  suffer  death  60 
out  of  His  great  love  for  us,  and  to  redeem  our  fallen 
race  with  the  precious  price  of  His  own  life. 

This  hero,  Joachim,  whose  deeds  I  shall  here  relate, 
the  happy  ancestor  indeed  of  such  a  grandchild,  adorn- 
ing himself  with  supreme  effort  by  worthy  deeds, 
divided  his  substance  into  three  parts,  giving  one  por- 
tion to  widows,  strangers,  and  orphans ;  a  second  por- 
tion to  those  serving  often  in  the  temple ;  and  keeping 
back  a  third  part  for  his  own  use.  By  doing  this  fre-  70 
quently  and  with  tender  kindness  Joachim  merited  to 
receive  such  a  recompense  that  his  own  substance  was 
increased  very  rapidly,  and  he  excelled  all  his  asso- 
ciates in  prosperity;  nor  did  the  earth  bring  forth  a 
great  man  like  to  him  whom  she  thus  enriched  with 
an  abundance  of  all  things. 

When  Joachim  had  thus  lived  twenty  years  care- 
free and  happy  amid  great  prosperity,  he  betrothed 
himself  to  a  maid  endowed  not  alone  with  extraordi- 
nary beauty  but  with  singular  virtue  and  holiness  as 
well.  The  maid  was  Anna,  the  daughter  of  Achas,  80 
born  of  the  illustrious  family  of  David,  and  her  he 
joined  to  himself  in  lawful  wedlock. 


-17 


The  Maria 

Hanc  autem  memorant,  sterilem  non  tempore  parvo, 
Spem  partus  homini  nullam  conferre  fideli. 
Tandem,  digestis  bis  denis  scilicet  annis, 
Contigit  in  templo  loachim  sub  tempore  festo 
Inter  sacratos  altaris  stare  ministros, 
Incensum  digni  fuerant  qui  ponere  visi. 
Quern  Ruben  templi  dum  vidit  scriba  sacrati, 

90       Exosus  factum,  dictis  aff atur  amaris : 

"Non  licet  incensum,"  dixit,  "te  tangere  sanctum, 
Munera  nee  Domino  praestat  dare  sacrificando, 
Te  quia  despexit,  sobolis  cum  dona  negavit." 
Non  dedit  econtra  verbum  vir  nobilis  ullum, 
Sed  maerens  abiit  silvas  tristisque  petivit, 
In  quis  saepe  gregem  consuevit  pascere  pridem, 
Ac,  in  longinquam  pergens  per  devia  terram, 
Ipsum  cum  propriis  secum  ducendo  magistris. 
Hie  in  secretis  latitat  pascendo  latebris 

100     Nee  post  ad  patriam  placuit  remeare  relictam, 
Passus  namque  gravem  secreta  mente  pudorem 
Ex  Ruben  verbis,  qui  se  causatur,  amaris. 


Cuius  percerte  post  menses  inclita  quinque 
Coniux,  desperans  ilium  iam  vivere  salvum. 
In  soles  flevit  nee  solamen  sibi  scivit, 
Hasque  preces  domino  profudit  triste  dolendo : 
"Israhelis  rector  solus  quoque  gentis  amator. 
Qui  semper  refoves  miti  pietate  dolentes, 
Cur  mihimet  socium  voluisti  tollere  carum, 
110     Addens  maerorem  tristi  semperque  dolenti, 

Quae  semper  sterilis  mansi  sine  germine  ventris? 

Sed  nunc  maioris  vulnus  suspiro  doloris, 

Hoc  quia  nee  penitus,  quid  conferret,  scio,  casus 

Legali  domino,  devoto  legis  amico. 

0  me  felicem,  si  saltem  noscere  possem, 

Utrum  mors  ilium  subito  sorberet  amara, 

An  frueretur  adhuc  calida  vitaliter  aura ! 


18 


The  Maria 

It  is  said,  however,  that  Anna  being  barren  for 
many  years  gave  no  promise  of  offspring  to  her  loyal 
consort.  At  length,  after  twice  ten  years  had  passed, 
it  chanced  one  festival  day  that  Joachim  was  standing 
in  the  temple  among  those  ministers  who  were  deemed 
worthy  to  offer  incense  to  the  Lord.  When  Ruben,  the 
Scribe  of  the  sacred  temple  saw  Joachim,  he  was 
moved  with  envy  at  the  fact,  and  he  said  in  bitter 
tones :  "It  is  not  lawful  for  thee  to  touch  the  sacred 
incense  nor  is  it  right  that  thou  bringest  an  offering  90 
to  God  by  sacrificing,  for  He  despises  thee,  since  He 
has  denied  thee  the  blessings  of  progeny." 

The  noble  man  made  no  response,  but  in  grief  and 
sadness  of  heart  he  left  the  sacred  place  and  sought 
the  forest,  where  he  had  in  times  past  been  accustomed 
to  pasture  his  flock.  Here  he  made  his  way  by  devious 
paths  into  a  far-distant  place,  taking  with  him  his 
flocks  each  with  its  own  shepherd,  and  he  hid  in  those 
recesses.  Neither  did  he  care  while  pasturing  to  re- 
turn to  the  father-land  which  he  had  left,  for  in  his  100 
heart  he  suffered  a  great  humiliation  because  of  the 
bitter  words  of  Ruben  who  had  derided  him. 

And  indeed  his  illustrious  spouse,  after  an  interval 
of  five  months,  fearing  that  he  was  no  longer  alive, 
wept  day  after  day,  nor  did  she  know  any  solace  for 
her  grief.  In  her  sad  affliction  she  poured  forth  this 
prayer  to  God:  "Sole  Ruler  of  Israel  and  Lover  of 
Thy  people !  Thou  ever  consolest  the  grieving  and  re- 
freshest  them  in  Thy  tender  kindness.  Why  hath  it 
pleased  Thee  to  take  from  me  my  cherished  consort, 
thus  adding  sorrow  to  one  ever  sad  and  distressed  be-  110 
cause  without  hope  of  offspring?  But  now  I  lament 
the  pangs  of  a  greater  grief,  for  I  do  not  know  in  my 
innermost  heart  what  misfortune  has  befallen  my  law- 
ful spouse,  a  devoted  servant  of  Thy  law.  0,  great 
indeed  would  be  my  happiness,  if  I  were  but  to  know 
whether  bitter  death  has  claimed  him,  or  whether  he 
is  still  alive  and  is  enjoying  Thy  invigorating  air. 

-19- 


The  Maria 

Certe  si  scirem,  non  ius  maeroris  haberem 
Tantum,  cum  tenebris  loeti  subcumberet  atris ; 
120     Funus  sed  summa  colerem  praenobile  pompa, 
Inclita  condigno  committens  membra  sepulchre." 

His  ita  finitis,  sublatis  cernit  ocellis 
In  ramis  lauri  resonantes  murmure  dulci 
Pullos  plumigeris  volucres  circumdare  pennis. 
Hoc  ubi  cernebat,  subtristi  voce  canebat : 
"Rex  caeli  fortis,  cui  subiacet  astriger  axis, 
Omnia  qui  certe  potis  es  disponere  recte, 
Semper  cunctarum  tibi  laus  extet  pietatum, 
Quod  Clemens  cunctos  pietatis  munere  vivos, 
130     Pisciculos  pecudes  serpentes  atque  volucres, 
Congaudere  suis  donasti  sedulo  pullis: 
Sed  meme  solam  sterilem  remanere  misellam 
Causa  iudicii  iussisti  denique  recti. 
Te  tamen  Omnipatrem  constanti  pectore  testem 
Invoco,  coniugii  primo  quod  tempore  vovi, 
Si  ventris  fructum  mihi  praestares  pius  ullum, 
Hunc  mox  in  templo  sisti  tibi  rite  sacrato 
Obsequioque  tui  legali  more  sacrari." 


Talia  dum  mundis  formaret  verbula  labris, 
140     Angelus  astrigero  subito  descendit  ab  alto, 
Maxima  tristitiae  portans  solamina  tantae, 
Et  stans  sub  facie  dictis  haec  f atur  amicis : 
"Exue  maerorem,  cordis  depone  dolorem, 
Consilioque  Dei  germen  tibi  credito  summi ; 
Hoc,  quod  ventre  tuo  procedet  tempore  certo, 
Vere  fiet  idem  populis  mirabile  cunctis." 
Dixit,  et  aurivagis  revolans  secat  aethera  pennis. 
Anna  sed,  angelicis  nimium  perterrita  verbis, 
Maesta  domum  petiit  sese  lectoque  locavit. 


-20 


The  Maria 

If  I  were  certain  of  these  things,  I  would  have  no 
right  for  such  excessive  grief,  even  though  he  were 
slumbering  in  the  shades  of  death ;  but  I  feign  would 
honor  his  remains  with  the  greatest  pomp  and  consign 
those  noble  members  to  a  worthy  resting-place."  120 

When  she  had  finished  this  prayer  she  raised  her 
eyes  and  beheld  in  the  branches  of  a  laurel  some  birds 
carolling  in  sweet  melodies  and  covering  their  young 
with  downy  wings.  Seeing  this,  Anna  continued  in 
sad  plaint:  "Mighty  King  of  Heaven,  to  Whom  the 
starry  sky  is  submissive ;  Thou  Who  art  powerful  to 
dispose  of  all  things  rightly!  To  Thee  be  exalted 
praise  from  all  the  faithful,  because  Thou  hast  granted 
as  a  loving  gift  to  all  living  creatures,  to  the  fishes,  the 
beasts,  the  reptiles,  and  the  birds  that  they  might  re- 
joice with  solicitude  in  their  offspring.  But  me  alone,  130 
alas,  Thou  hast  ordered  according  to  Thy  just  judg- 
ment to  remain  without  this  consolation.  However,  I 
call  upon  Thee  as  witness.  Father  of  all,  in  the  con- 
stancy of  my  heart.  I  have  vowed  to  Thee  in  the  first 
days  of  our  marriage  that  if  Thou  in  Thy  clemency 
wouldst  present  me  with  a  child,  I  would  early  present 
it  to  Thee  in  Thy  sacred  temple  in  obedience  to  the 
manner  of  the  prescribed  law,  and  dedicate  it  to  Thy 
service." 

Such  were  the  words  her  pure  lips  uttered,  when 
suddenly  from  the  starry  heaven  an  angel  descended, 
bearing  for  her  in  her  sadness  words  of  consolation; 
and  standing  before  her  he  spoke  to  her  in  kindly  140 
wise:  "Put  aside  thy  grief  and  place  far  from  thy 
heart  this  depressing  sorrow,  and  believe  that  by  the 
decree  of  the  Most  High  God,  thou  shalt  conceive  a 
child,  and  the  fruit  of  thy  womb  will  in  all  truth  be 
wonderful  among  all  nations."  This  he  said,  and  soar- 
ing aloft  he  cut  the  ether  with  his  air-roaming  wings. 
But  Anna,  exceedingly  terrified  at  the  words  of  the 
angel,  sadly  sought  her  home ;  and  tremblingly  placing 
herself  on  her  couch,  she  rehearsed  the  psalms  of  the 

-21- 


The  Maria 

150     Et  tremefacta  diem  psalmorum  lege  <per  omnem> 
Effusis  noctem  precibus  ducendo  sequentem 
Post  haec  ergo  suam  praecepit  adesse  puellam, 
Astantam  rogitans  propriis  illam  sub  ocellis, 
Cur  se  despiceret,  vel  cur  tarn  sero  veniret, 
Cum  sibi  sentiret  fieri  quid  forte  stupendi. 

Reddidit  econtra  dominae  lasciva  famella 
Obprobriis  iactum  servili  murmure  verbum : 
"Si  te  despexit  sterilem  faciens  Deus,"  inquit, 
"Die,  rogo,  divinae  causae  quid  pertinet  ad  me?" 

160     Anna  sed  obprobrium  patienter  pertulit  istud, 
Effundens  tantum  lacrimas  subtristis  amaras. 

Scilicet  hac  ipsa  loachim  praedictus  in  hora 
Angelus,  apparens  inter  montana,  refulgens, 
In  quis  tunc  pascendo  gregem  latitaverat  autem, 
lusserat  ad  sociam  citius  remeare  relictam. 
Qui  dixit,  monitis  animo  permotus  ab  illis: 
"Haec  iam  bis  denis  mecum  permanserat  annis, 
Ex  ilia  Dominus  sobolem  mihi  nee  dedit  ullam : 
Insuper  obprobriis  discessi  plenus  amaris 
170     Nuper  de  templo,  causa  conf  usus  ab  ipsa : 

Et  me  despectum  tantisque  malis  saturatum 
Hortaris  regredi  subdi  primoque  pudori?" 


Ad  quem  mansuetis  caelestis  nuntius  orsis 
"Me  fore  caelestem"  dicebat  "credito  civem 
Custodemque  tui  factum  pietate  superni 
Regis,  qui  iustam  consolari  dedit  Annam 
Per  me,  dum  praeculas  flendo  profunderet  almas. 
At  nunc  ergo  tui  causa  de  cardine  caeli 
Aequa  ferens  veni  permag-ni  gaudia  doni, 
180     Hocque  tibi  dico,  quod  mox  praenobilis  Anna 
Concipiet  natam  cunctis  saeclis  venerandam. 
Haec  inter  natus  hominum  fiet  sacra  cunctas, 
Spiritus  et  merito  sanctus  requiescet  in  ilia; 


22 


The  Maria 

Lord  throughout  that  day  and  continued  her  prayers 
throughout  the  ensuing  night.  150 

Thereupon  she  summoned  her  maid  and  asked  her 
when  she  came  into  her  presence  why  she  despised  her 
mistress,  and  why  she  had  delayed  to  come  to  her 
when  she  realized  that  some  great  thing  was  about  to 
happen  to  her.  But  the  insolent  maid  answering  her 
mistress  hurled  at  her  a  word  in  derision  in  the  low 
murmur  customary  among  servants :  "If  God  despised 
thee  by  making  thee  barren,  tell  me,  how  does  the 
cause  of  the  divine  wrath  concern  me?"  But  Anna 
bore  this  opprobrium  patiently,  pouring  out  her  grief 
in  silent  tears.  160 

It  happened  that  at  that  same  hour  that  same  angel 
appeared  also  to  Joachim  in  great  splendor  among  the 
hills  where  he  was  hiding  while  pasturing  his  flock. 
The  heavenly  messenger  commanded  Joachim  to  re- 
turn to  the  spouse  he  had  left ;  and  he  in  great  distress 
said  to  his  heavenly  visitant:  "I  have  lived  with  my 
spouse  for  twice  ten  years,  and  God  has  given  me  from 
her  no  offspring.  Then  too  it  was  but  recently  that  I 
departed  from  the  temple  after  having  been  bitterly 
reproached  for  this  very  cause.  And  now  after  I  have  170 
been  derided  and  filled  with  reproaches,  dost  thou  ex- 
hort me  to  return  and  subject  myself  to  my  former 
disgrace?" 

The  celestial  messenger  then  spoke  these  gentle 
words:  "Believe  that  I  am  a  heavenly  citizen,  given 
to  thee  as  a  guardian  by  the  grace  of  the  Most  High 
King,  Who  granted  that  through  me  Anna,  thy  just 
wife,  should  be  consoled  whilst  amid  tears  she  poured 
out  her  efl^cacious  prayers.  But  now  also  for  thy  sake 
I  have  come  down  from  the  realms  of  heaven,  bringing 
to  thee  like  gifts  of  joy  surpassing.  For  this  I  an- 
nounce to  thee,  that  soon  the  most  noble  Anna  will 
conceive  a  daughter  whom  all  generations  shall  call  180 
blessed.  The  child  will  be  holy  among  all  the  daugh- 
ters of  men,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  will  find  in  her  a  fit- 

-23- 


The  Maria 

Ac  per  quam  veniet  mundo  benedictio  summa, 
Nee  primam  similem  nee  fertur  habere  sequentem. 
At  nune  ad  soeiam  tempta  remeare  beatam, 
Quae  gaudens  omni  tantum  pariet  decus  orbi ; 
Et  semper  grates  factor!  reddite  dulces, 
Cui  placuit  stirpem  vobis  coneedere  talem, 
190     Qualem  pereerte  numquam  tenuere  prophetae 
Omnes  elect!  post  haec  nee  sunt  habituri." 


Ad  quern  promissis  loachim  laetatus  in  illis: 
"Si  tua  certa  tuo  maneat  mihi  gratia  servo, 
Ad  tempus  dignare  meo  requieseere  tecto 
Et  gustare  cibum  non  dedignere  paratum." 

Angelus  econtra  dicebat  voce  decora: 
"Desine,  posco,  meum  post  haec  te  dicere  servum, 
Esse  sed  angeUcae  consortem  credito  turmae. 
Nam  mihi  terrenis  opus  est  non  vescier  escis, 
200     Quern  pascit  Domini  semper  praesentia  summi ; 
Quapropter  moneo,  Domino  Hbamine  sacro 
Hoc  te  ferre,  meis  satagis  quod  ponere  mensis." 
Qui  citus  anniculum  gregibus  subtraxerat  agnum, 
Sperans  obprobrium  Ruben  cessasse  vetustum, 
Immolat  et  Domino  gavisus  pectore  laeto 
Ignibus  appositis,  ut  habet  praeceptio  legis. 
Angekis,  his  votis,  ut  iussit,  rite  peractis, 
Altaris  f  umo  sublatus  pergit  ad  astra. 


lam  tunc  dementis  paulatim  gratia  patris 
210     Incoepit  radiis  mundo  lucessere  claris 

Atque  prior  stabilem  discordia  sumere  finem, 
Cum  sua  caelestes  primum  consortia  cives 
Ohm  terrigenas  promittebant  habituros, 
Quos  prius  e  meritis  Adam  sprevere  parentis. 
Nee  latuit  tunc  angeheum  dementia  coetum 

-24- 


The  Maria 

ting  temple.  Through  her  the  greatest  blessing  shall 
come  to  the  world,  nor  was  there  one  like  to  her  be- 
fore, nor  shall  she  have  one  like  to  her  coming  after. 
But  now,  attempt  to  return  to  thy  happy  spouse,  who 
will  rejoice  in  giving  birth  to  such  a  child  who  is  to 
be  a  glory  for  the  entire  world.  And  ever  render  sweet 
gratitude  to  the  Creator,  Who  was  pleased  to  grant  to 
you  twain  offspring  like  to  whom  indeed  all  the  chosen 
prophets  have  never  known,  nor  after  this  one  will 
ever  know."  190 

Joachim,  overjoyed  upon  hearing  these  promises, 
said  to  the  angel :  "If  thy  manifest  favor  continue  to- 
ward thy  servant,  deign  to  rest  awhile  beneath  my 
roof,  and  do  not  disdain  to  enjoy  the  repast  which  I 
have  prepared." 

To  him  the  angel  made  response  in  words  of  dig- 
nity: "Desist,  I  pray  thee,  henceforth  to  call  thyself 
my  servant,  but  consider  thyself  a  companion  to  the 
angelic  hosts.  As  for  me,  terrestrial  nourishment  is 
not  needful,  for  I  am  constantly  satisfied  with  the 
presence  of  God  on  high.  Therefore  I  advise  thee  to  200 
bring  as  a  sacred  offering  to  the  Lord  that  which  thou 
art  solicitous  to  place  for  my  table." 

Thereupon  Joachim  speedily  chose  a  yearling  from 
his  flock  of  lambs,  confident  that  the  one-time  oppro- 
brium of  Ruben  had  been  blotted  out.  With  a  glad 
heart,  after  he  had  placed  the  fire,  he  joyfully  pre- 
pared, as  the  law  prescribed,  to  immolate  to  the  Lord. 
The  angel  after  having  seen  all  these  things  done  as  he 
had  ordered,  raising  himself  above  the  smoke  of  the 
altar,  winged  his  way  into  the  heavens. 

And  thus  gradually  the  glory  of  the  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther began  to  break  forth  to  the  world  in  resplendent  210 
rays,  and  ancient  discord  was  brought  to  a  definite  end 
as  soon  as  the  celestial  citizens  had  promised  com- 
panionship with  themselves  to  those  earthborn  citizens 
whom  hitherto  they  had  disdained  by  reason  of  the 
guilt  of  their  Father,  Adam.    Neither  did  the  clemency 

-25- 


The  Maria 

Omnipatris,  proprium  qui  mox  post  tempora  natum 
Mittere  virgineum  miserans  disponit  in  alvum, 
Ut,  sine  principio  natus  de  patre  superno, 
220     Camem  virgineo  sub  tempore  sumeret  alvo, 
Omnes  atque  suo  salvaret  sanguine  sacro, 
Ne  post  haec  generis  humani  callidus  hostis, 
Gauderet  mundum  laqueis  retinere  malignis, 
Sed  patris  et  nati,  numen  quoque  pneumatis  almi, 
Aequali  forma  pollens  sub  nomine  trino 
Finetenus  stabilem  regnaret  iure  per  orbem. 


Angelus  astrigerum  postquam  transcendit  olympum, 
Vix  patiens  loachim  tantae  praeconia  causae 
Et  tactus  iaculo  terroris  denique  magno, 
Stratus  adusque  solum  doni  virtute  superni 
230     Pertimidus  iacuit  necnon  sine  mente  quievit 
Ipsius  <a>  sexta,  ni  fallor,  forte  diei, 
Dum  sol  usque  suum  conclusit  vespere  cursum. 

Interea  pueri  venerunt  cum  grege  lassi, 
Cumque  suum  dominum  terra  videre  locatum, 
Comminus  adstantes  coeperunt  discere  tristes 
Causam  terroris  turbata  mente  recentis; 
Ipsum  percerte  sed  vix  potuere  levare. 
Quis  cum  caelestis  narrasset  nuntia  civis, 
Suaserunt  illi  iussis  parere  supernis 
240     Et  rapido  patriam  cursu  repedare  relictam. 
Qui,  gregibus  lectis,  silvis  discessit  ab  illis 
Ac  gaudens  pueros  secum  deduxerat  ipsos. 
Et  cum  transissent  spatium  triginta  dierum, 
Angelus  oranti  sanctae  comparuit  Annae 
Et  cum  pacificis  deprompsit  talia  verbis: 
"Exsurgens  animo  vultu  quoque  perge  sereno 
Ad  portam  subito,  quae  dicitur  aurea  vulgo ; 
lUic  forte  tuum  summa  cum  pace  reversum 
Legalem  dominum  mox  comperies  fore  vivum." 


26 


The  Maria 

of  the  All-Father  lie  hid  from  the  angelic  host  when  in 
the  fulness  of  time,  He  in  His  mercy  decreed  to  send 
His  own  Son  into  the  womb  of  a  Virgin,  in  order  that 
this  Son,  born  of  the  Father  before  all  ages,  might  in 
time  assume  flesh  of  a  Virgin  Mother,  and  thus  save  220 
all  mankind  by  His  all-holy  Blood,  and  that  after  this 
the  wily  enemy  of  man  might  not  rejoice  in  holding 
the  world  in  his  malicious  snare;  but  that  the  God- 
head of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  likewise  of  the 
Fostering  Spirit,  equal  in  nature,  might  under  this 
triune  Name,  reign  as  is  just  throughout  the  peaceful 
world  even  unto  the  end  of  time. 

When  the  angel  had  ascended  into  the  starbearing 
heavens,  Joachim,  hardly  bearing  such  great  predic- 
tions, was  seized  with  an  intense  fear.  Prostrating 
himself  even  to  the  earth,  he  lay  there  overcome  with 
awe  at  this  great  heavenly  manifestation ;  and  he  lay  230 
there  unconscious,  if  I  mistake  not,  from  the  sixth 
hour  of  that  day  until  the  sun  had  run  his  course  at 
evening. 

In  the  meantime  his  servants  came  with  the  wearied 
herd;  and  when  they  saw  their  master  prone  upon 
the  ground,  standing  about  they  began  sadly  to  inquire 
the  cause  of  the  unusual  distress  in  his  distracted 
mind.  And  it  was  forsooth  with  great  difficulty  that 
they  were  able  to  raise  him  up.  When  he  had  told  the 
message  of  the  heavenly  visitant,  they  persuaded  him 
to  obey  the  divine  injunction  and  to  return  speedily 
to  the  country  he  had  left. 

Collecting  then  his  flocks,  Joachim  departed  from  240 
the  forest,  joyfully  taking  with  him  his  servants.  And 
it  came  to  pass  that  after  thirty  days  an  angel  ap- 
peared to  blessed  Anna  while  she  was  at  prayer  and 
addressed  her  in  these  consoling  words :  "Rise  quick- 
ly, Anna,  and  hasten  with  a  calm  mind  and  counte- 
nance to  the  gate  called  in  the  language  of  the  people 
'The  Golden.'  There  haply  thou  wilt  meet  thy  lawful 
spouse  returned  to  thee  alive  and  in  great  peace." 

-27- 


The  Maria 

250     Quae  citius  dicto  iussum  complevit  amandum 
Impatiensque  morae  perrexit  ad  hostia  portae, 
Praestolata  suum  gavisa  mente  patronum. 

Scilicet  attonitis  quern  cum  conspexit  ocellis 
Caro  florigerum  percurrerat  obvia  campum 
Ipsius  et  collo  sese  suspendit  amando, 
Altithrono  grates  reddendo  denique  tales: 
"Laus  tibi,  cunctorum  largitor  summe  bonorum, 
Qui  mihi  non  merito  concedis  gaudia  tanta! 
Ecce  virum  proprium  praesentem  sentio  salvum, 
260     Tempore  quae  longo  iam  pennansi  viduata ; 
Quaeque  fui  sterilis,  concepi  gaudia  prolis." 
Talibus  auditis  congaudens  concinit  omnis 
Plebs  Hebraea  Deo  laudes  cum  pectore  laeto. 

Post  haec  noveno  percerte  mense  peracto 
Venit  summa  dies,  in  qua  praenobilis  Anna 
Progenuit  natam  cunctis  saeclis  venerandam. 
Postque  dies  octo  primi  venere  vocati 
Pontifices,  tantae  solito  qui  more  puellae 
Nomen  et  aptarent,  ipsam  quoque  sanctificarent. 
270     Quis  loachim  preculas  fudit  praesentibus  istas: 
"Rex  caeli,  stellis  solus  qui  nomina  ponis, 
Istius  tenerae  nomen  dignare  puellae 
Caelitus  indiciis  per  te  monstrare  coruscis." 
Dixerat,  et  subito  sonuit  vox  fortis  ab  alto, 
Mandans  egregiam  Mariam  vocitare  puellam, 
'Stella  maris'  lingua  quod  consonat  ergo  latina ; 
Hoc  nomen  merito  sortitur  sancta  puella, 
Est  quia  praeclarum  sidus,  quod  fulget  in  aevum 
Regis  <in>  aeterni  claro  diademate  Christi. 

280         Post  haec  annorum  meta  vergente  duorum, 
Fortunata  suam  dum  sumpsit  ab  ubere  natam 
Ablactando  piam  genetrix  de  more  Mariam, 
Ocius  in  templo  sistit  cum  munere  digno 
Ipsam,  quae  templum  Domini  fuit  immo  futurum, 
Quo  sociata  sacris  virguncula  parva  puellis 


28 


The  Maria 

When  these  things  were  said,  Anna  followed  quick-  250 
ly  that  lovable  command  and  impatient  of  delay  she 
hastened  to  the  gateway,  expecting  her  lord  with  joy- 
ous heart.  And  forsooth  when  she  beheld  him  with 
astonished  eyes,  across  those  flowery  fields  she  sped  to 
meet  him  and  she  threw  herself  into  his  cherished  em- 
brace, rendering  thanks  to  the  Most  High  in  these 
words:  "Praise  to  Thee,  0  greatest  Giver  of  every 
good,  Who  hast  to  me,  although  unworthy,  granted 
such  great  bliss !  Behold,  I  see  before  me  mine  own 
beloved,  safe  and  well ;  for  so  long  a  time  I  have  lived 
as  a  widow ;  and  I,  who  have  been  barren,  have  con- 
ceived to  my  joy !"  Then  all  the  Hebrew  people,  learn-  250 
ing  these  events,  with  one  accord  gave  thanks  to  God 
with  joyful  hearts. 

Nine  months  after  these  events  came  that  blessed 
day  on  which  the  illustrious  Anna  brought  forth  her 
child,  who  was  to  be  revered  among  all  generations. 
After  eight  days  the  high  priests,  who  had  been  sum- 
moned, came,  so  that  according  to  custom  they  might 
confer  a  name  upon  the  child  and  purify  the  mother. 
Joachim  pouring  forth  prayers  to  God  said :  "0  Thou,  270 
King  of  Heaven,  Who  alone  dost  name  the  stars,  deign 
to  indicate  in  a  heavenly  manner  by  some  brilliant 
sign  the  name  of  this  tender  babe."  When  he  had  said 
this,  a  mighty  voice  sounded  suddenly  from  on  high, 
commanding  that  the  name  'Mary'  be  bestowed  upon 
the  chosen  child.  "Stella  Maris,"  as  our  Latin  tongue 
has  it!  Fittingly  was  this  name  conferred  upon  that 
holy  child,  because  she  is  the  brightest  star  shining  for 
aye  in  the  beautiful  diadem  of  the  eternal  Christ. 

After  two  years  had  measured  the  space  of  time  and  280 
the  happy  mother  according  to  custom  had  weaned  her 
holy  babe,  she  hastened  to  present  her,  who  was  to  be 
indeed  the  temple  of  God,  with  a  worthy  gift  in  the 
temple,  where  in  company  with  other  holy  maidens 
the  child  would  persevere  in  singing  praises  to  God, 
Whom   the   celestial   choirs   laud.     Arriving   at   the 

-29- 


The  Maria 

Semper  divinis  illic  perstaret  in  odis, 
Quern  merito  cives  caelestes  laude  frequentant. 
Post  haec,  in  templi  subsistens  limine  sacri, 
Ascensum  graduum  subito  ter  quinque  supinum, 

290     Immemor  aetatis,  iam  plena  Deo,  puerilis, 
Audacter  currit  viiltum  nee  retro  retlexit, 
Quaerat  ut  astantes  infantum  more  parentes. 
His  super  accensi,  mirantur  denique  cuncti 
Astantes  populi  templi  pariterque  ministri ; 
Pontifices  ipsi  factum  laudant  quoque  primi, 
Dicentes,  tanto  quod  tunc  infantula  facto 
Per  se  quid  fieri  praesignaret  cito  magni, 
Et  vere  magni  cunctis  meritoque  stupendi. 
Quod  credi  maius  vel  quod  posse  fore  maius, 

300     Quam  quod  virgineo  portavit  ventre  puella 

Magnum  factorem  mundi  propriumque  parentem? 
Nee  mirum,  sursum  coepit  si  figere  gressum, 
Infans  lacteolis  fuerat  dum  parvula  membris, 
Quam,  pater  alme,  tuo  ditasti  flamine  sacro, 
Dum  fuerat  sanctae  genitricis  condita  ventre, 
Praescius  hanc  solam  certe  consistere  dignam 
Ad  proprii  partum  nati  per  saecula  voti : 
Qui  post,  corporeae  tectus  velamine  formae, 
Ascensum  graduum  cunctis  patefecit  in  aevum, 

310     Per  quos  ad  patriam  tendunt  remeare  relictam; 
Cui  Christus  nomen,  cui  laus  sit  caelitus.    Amen. 

Scilicet  et  genitrix  tali  faetu  bene  felix 
Conlaudans  regem  cecinit  sic  Anna  perennem : 
"Omnipotens  rector,  solus  pietatis  amator, 
Clementer  proprio  fecisti  mira  popello, 
Aspiciens  humilem  miserando  meam  quoque  mentem 
lam  desperatae  donasti  gaudia  natae. 
Audeo  percerte  post  haec  tibi  munera  ferre 
Nee  vereor  prohibere  meum  post  haec  inimicum, 

320     Quin  visitem  sacris  templi  sociata  ministris. 
Hinc  te  caelestes  conlaudant  sedulo  cives, 
Condignum  carmen  modulando  perenniter.     Amen." 


30 


The  Maria 

threshold  of  the  sacred  temple  the  little  one  paused 
unmindful  of  her  tender  age,  and  filled  with  love  of 
God,  mounted  the  steep  ascent  of  thrice  five  steps, 
bravely  hurrying  upward;  nor  did  she  even  turn,  290 
childlike,  to  look  for  her  parents  who  stood  watching. 
Startled  at  these  happenings  all  who  beheld  her  mar- 
veled greatly,  as  did  also  the  ministers  of  the  temple. 
The  chief  priests  extolled  the  action  of  the  little  one 
and  said  that  by  this  deed  she  had  foreshadowed  what 
great  things  would  be  accomplished  through  her,  truly 
and  deservedly  a  great  marvel  for  all. 

For  what  can  be  believed  to  be,  or  what  can  truly 
be  greater  than  the  Maid  who  bore  in  her  virginal  300 
bosom  the  great  Creator  of  the  world,  her  own  Maker? 
Nor  is  it  to  be  wondered  at,  if  the  babe  with  its  tender 
infant  limbs  began  early  to  direct  its  steps  upward; 
that  child  whom  Thou,  0  most  loving  Father,  hast  en- 
riched with  Thy  Holy  Spirit  while  she  was  yet  enclosed 
in  the  womb  of  her  saintly  mother;  Thou  Who  didst 
foreknow  that  she  alone  would  be  found  worthy  to 
bring  forth  Thine  only  begotten  Son,  prayed  for 
throughout  the  ages.  This  Son,  Who  after  He  had 
taken  upon  Himself  a  human  form,  opened  the  way  to 
eternity,  by  which  all  reach  the  fatherland  which  had 
been  lost;  He  Who  is  called  Jesus,  to  Whom  be  celes-  310 
tial  glory. 

Then  indeed  Anna,  the  happy  mother  of  that  child, 
praising  the  Eternal  King,  chanted  these  words :  "Al- 
mighty Ruler,  sole  Lover  of  righteousness,  in  Thy 
mercy  Thou  hast  done  wonderful  things  for  Thy  peo- 
ple; regarding  with  compassion  the  humility  of  my 
heart,  Thou  hast  given  to  me,  despairing  of  offspring, 
the  joy  of  a  daughter.  I  dare  indeed  hereafter  to  bear 
gifts  to  Thee,  neither  do  I  fear  lest  my  enemy  will 
prevent  my  sacrifice  and  hinder  me  from  frequently 
joining  myself  as  an  ally  to  the  sacred  ministers  of  the  320 
temple.  For  this  may  the  heavenly  citizens,  in  endless 
melody,  praise  Thee  zealously  by  singing  eternally  a 

-31- 


The  Maria 

His  ita  finitis  orantis  scilicet  orsis, 
Germine  felices  talis  rediere  parentes 
Indolis,  in  templo  parva  remanente  Maria. 

Omnes  humanae  nequeunt  conprendere  linguae 
Nee  potis  est  stabilis,  quamvis  verbum  sonet,  orbis 
Istius  infantis  praeclaram  dicere  formam, 
Sed  nee  mirandae  vitam  moresque  puellae 

330     Quis  laudare  modis  potis  est  per  saecula  dignis, 
Haec  quia,  continue  cunis  subtracta,  puella 
Maturis  omni  lucebat  moribus  orbi 
Nee  quicquam  membris  gessit  puerile  tenellis, 
Ast  in  praeceptis  fuerat  iustissima  legis 
Necnon  carminibus  semper  studiosa  Davidis. 
Haec  prudens,  humilis,  fervens  dulcedine  mentis, 
Omnibus  atque  placens,  tota  virtute  ref  ulgens ; 
Hanc  hominis  maledicentem  non  audiit  auris, 
Offensam  sed  nee  quisquam  cognoverat  umquam. 

340     Semper  erat  mitis  necnon  gratissima  cunctis, 
Et,  quae  nempe  suo  profluxit  ab  ore  loquela, 
Nectare  gratiolae  fuerat  condita  supernae. 
Et,  cum  quis  verbis  illi  benedixit  amicis, 
Mox  grates  Domino  curavit  reddere  summo. 
Nee  sic  divinis  linguam  retineret  ab  odis; 
Exemplumque  suis  in  se  praenobile  cunctis 
Praeponit  sociis  iam  cunctigenae  bonitatis. 
Ipsius  faciem  niveo  candore  nitentem 
Tradunt  ardentis  radios  praecellere  solis 

350     Necnon  humanum  penitus  devincere  visum. 

Quid  referam  digitos  operum  satis  arte  probatos? 
Namque  manu  docta  perfecit  parva  puella, 
Nempe,  sibi  normam  statuens  ipsissima  duram. 
Omnibus  in  templo  vivebat  strictius  ergo 
Virginibus  reliquis  illic  pariter  sociatis. 
Nam  tantum  preculis  studuit  persistere  sacris 
Necnon  divinis  semper  constanter  in  odis, 


-32 


The  Maria 

worthy  canticle.  Amen."  When  she  had  finished  these 
prayers,  the  happy  parents  of  that  blessed  child  re- 
turned home,  while  the  little  Mary  remained  in  the 
temple. 

All  human  tongues,  of  whatever  words  they  might 
be  capable,  cannot  express,  nor  can  any  of  them 
throughout  the  entire  fixed  earth  worthily  describe  the 
exquisite  beauty  of  this  babe,  nor  fittingly  laud  the  life 
and  character  of  her  who  is  worthy  to  be  praised 
throughout  all  ages.  For  this  child,  as  soon  as  she 
was  taken  from  the  cradle,  shone  resplendently  before  330 
the  whole  world  because  of  her  matured  character, 
nor  did  she  in  her  infant  frailty  ever  do  anything 
except  what  was  most  just  in  the  commandments  of 
the  law,  and  she  was  ever  zealous  in  chanting  the 
psalms  of  David.  Thus  Mary  lived,  prudent,  humble, 
inflamed  with  charity  of  soul,  affable  to  all,  resplen- 
dent with  every  virtue.  No  human  ear  ever  heard  her 
speak  in  manner  unkindly ;  no  one  knew  her  to  offend 
in  any  way. 

Ever  meek  and  most  gracious  to  all  was  she  and  340 
indeed  whatever  speech  flowed  from  her  lips  was  fla- 
vored with  the  nectar  of  supernal  grace.  And  when 
anyone  praised  her  with  friendly  words,  she  took  care 
immediately  to  render  thanks  to  God  on  high,  nor  did 
her  tongue  ever  desist  from  singing  divine  canticles. 
And  thus  she  presented  herself  to  all  her  associates 
as  a  noble  exemplar  of  universal  righteousness.  It  is 
said  that  Mary's  face  beamed  with  a  snowy  whiteness, 
and  that  her  beauty  excelled  the  dazzling  splendor  of 
the  sun  and  utterly  surpassed  in  its  loveliness  every  350 
human  countenance.  How  can  I  adequately  extol  those 
fingers  skilled  in  work  of  art?  This  the  tiny  maid 
accomplished  with  skilful  hand.  Furthermore,  Mary 
set  for  herself  a  severe  rule  of  life,  living  more  strictly 
than  the  other  virgins  in  whose  company  she  dwelt. 
Her  one  ambition  was  to  persevere  in  prayer  and  to  be 
constant  in  singing  the  divine  praises,  from  the  time 

-33- 


390^3 


The  Maria 

Ex  quo  discissae  noctis  periere  tenebrae 
Aurora  spargente  plagam  lucem  per  eoam, 

360     Altius  usque  polum  Phoebo  ascendente  serenum 
Tertia  iam  solito  devenerat  hora  diei. 
Tunc  usu  digitos  operis  laxaverat  albos, 
Docte  purpureis  instando  denique  fills. 
Sed,  mox  ut  nona  Phoebus  descendit  in  hora, 
Se  precibus  solito  reddit  famosa  puella 
Ac  studio  mentis  bene  perduravit  in  illis, 
Usque  per  angelicum  sumpsit  sacra  virgo  ministrum 
Omni  namque  die  missam  sibi  caelitus  escam, 
Et,  quam  pontifices  dederant  de  more  potentes, 

370     Hanc  studio  mentis  citius  concessit  egenis. 
Denique  caelestes  lapsi  de  sidere  cives 
Hanc  crebro  verbis  consolabantur  amicis, 
Spernere  terrestrem  quo  mox  didicisset  amorem 
Et  castam  regi  mentem  servare  perenni. 
Quisquis  languidolis  infirmus  denique  membris 
Hanc  saltim  tetigit,  raptim  salvus  remeavit. 

Cuius  cum  stabilem  volitaret  fama  per  orbem, 
Abiathar  reliquos  exorat  saepe  sacerdos 
Pontifices  templi  pretii  non  munere  pauci, 

380     Vellent  praeclaram  quo  disponsare  Mariam 
Ipsius  egregio  legali  foedere  nato. 
Quod  fieri  vero  prohibet  virguncula  casta, 
Inclita  regalis  spernens  consortia  stirpis, 
Se  quoque  finetenus  testatur  nobile  corpus 
Eius  coniugio  percerte  subdere  nullo. 
Talia  pontifices  cui  mox  dixere  potentes: 
"Nonne  Deus  colitur  digneque  potens  veneratur 
In  plebis  ludae  legali  posteritate? 
Nee  decet  innuptam  talem  remanere  puellam." 

390     Quis  constans  animo  respondit  talia  virgo : 

"Nam  Deus  in  templo  gaudet  requiescere  mundo 
Mentibus  et  sobriis,  nee  delectatur  in  illis, 
Crimine  quos  magno  maculat  lasciva  libido. 
Scimus  Abel  duplam  merito  sumpsisse  coronam, 

-34- 


The  Maria 

that  the  darkness  of  night,  which  had  been  severed, 
perished,  when  the  dawn  had  sprinkled  her  brilliancy 
throughout  the  east,  until  the  sun  had  ascended  yet 
higher  toward  the  serene  pole  and  the  third  hour  of  360 
the  day  in  its  turn  was  wont  to  approach.  Then  she  re- 
laxed her  snowy  fingers  for  their  accustomed  labor  and 
with  consummate  skill  wrought  the  purple  threads. 
But  when  at  the  ninth  hour  the  sun  made  his  descent, 
the  illustrious  maiden  gave  herself  again  to  prayers, 
persevering  in  these  with  a  zealous  mind  until  she  had 
received  through  the  ministiy  of  her  angel  the  food 
sent  her  each  day  from  heaven;  and  that  which  the 
high  priests  gave  her  according  to  custom,  she  with 
eager  heart  quickly  gave  to  the  indigent.  Finally,  the 
celestial  citizens  coming  down  from  their  starry  heav-  370 
en  were  wont  oft  to  entertain  her  in  loving  converse, 
and  because  of  this  she  learned  to  despise  earthly  af- 
fection and  to  preserve  a  chaste  heart  for  the  Eternal 
King.  And  whoever  was  infirm  with  languid  limbs,  if 
she  but  touched  him,  he  straightway  departed  whole. 

When  the  fame  of  this  had  spread  abroad  over  this 
solid  earth,  Abiathar,  one  of  the  priests,  often  begged 
the  other  priests  of  the  temple,  with  gifts  of  no  small 
value,  that  they  might  will  to  espouse  the  fair  Mary  to  380 
his  own  son  in  legal  wedlock.  But  the  chaste  maiden 
frustrated  these  designs,  rejecting  even  an  illustrious 
marriage  with  one  of  the  royal  race,  declaring 
emphatically  that  she  would  give  herself  to  no  spouse 
to  the  end  of  her  days.  To  her  the  pontiff  made  re- 
sponse :  "Is  not  the  Mighty  God  fittingly  adored  and 
worshiped  by  the  lawful  posterity  of  the  people  of 
Israel?  It  is  not  becoming  for  a  maid  of  thy  age  to 
remain  unmarried." 

But  Mary  made  reply  in  the  constancy  of  her  heart :     390 
"God  delights  to  make  His  abode  in  the  pure  heart  and 
the  chaste  mind;     He  does  not  find  delight  in  those 
whom  sensual  desires  stain  with  foul  sin.     We  know 
that  Abel,  who  was  the  first  just  man  among  the  chil- 

-35- 


The  Maria 

Qui  primus  mundo  iustus  fuerat  protoplasto, 
Unam  martirii  fratris  de  caede  peracti 
Atque  magis  nitidam  pro  virginitate  secundam. 
Credimus  Heliam  caelum  petiisse  secretum 
Corpore  cum  vero,  mansit  quia  [fortiter]  virgo. 
400     Nee  corpus  maculis  umquam  violavit  amaris. 
Haec  didici  certe  legis  ratione  docente, 
Et  discens  animo  mandavi  sedulo  fixa 
Meque  puellarum  vovi  retinere  pudorem." 


Postquam  bis  septem  totos  compleverat  annos, 
Non  hoc  esse  sui  moris,  dicunt  Pharisaei, 
Aetatis  tantae  quod  vellet  virgo  manere 
Post  haec  in  templo  Domini  sub  honore  sacrato. 
<Hinc>  decreverunt  populum  concurrere  cunctum, 
Ut  pariter  tantam  temptarent  volvere  causam. 
410     Et  cum  sub  tectis  templi  consisteret  omnis, 

Abiathar,  quem  iam  memini,  sub  lege  sacerdos, 
Ascensum  graduum  conscendit  namque  supinum 
Praesul  et  astanti  dicebat  talia  plebi : 

"Ex  quo  constructum  fuerat  praenobile  templum 
Istud  per  magni  regis  studium  Salomonis, 
Ut  scitis  vere,  manserunt  semper  in  illo 
Forma  conspicuae  vultus,  aetate  tenellae 
Natae  nobilium  famoso  germine  regum 
Atque  sacerdotum  vatum  pariterque  priorum, 
420     Quae  celebres  omni  merito  mansere  popello. 
Certe  perfecta  sed  mox  aetate  recepta, 
Coniugibus  tantae  condignis  sunt  sociatae 
Multo-magisque  Deo  placuerunt  semper  ab  illo. 
More  sed  insolito  sperat  se  virgo  Maria 
Posse  placere,  viris  domini  pro  nomine  spretis. 
Hinc,  quia  non  constat,  votum  se  reddere  tantum, 
Restat,  ut  altithronum  precibus  digne  rogitemus, 
Ut  nos  forte  suis  faciat  cognoscere  iussis, 
Hanc  cui  legali  fas  sit  cum  foedere  iungi." 


36 


The  Maria 

dren  of  men,  merited  to  receive  a  double  crown,  one, 
that  of  martyrdom  because  of  his  death  at  the  hands 
of  his  brother ;  the  other,  and  that  one  more  splendid, 
because  of  his  virginity.  So  too  we  believe  that  Elias, 
while  yet  in  the  flesh,  was  taken  up  into  heaven,  and 
this  forsooth,  because  he  had  steadfastly  remained  a 
virgin  and  had  never  at  any  time  violated  his  person  400 
with  disgraceful  sin.  These  things  I  have  learned  be- 
ing instructed  in  the  precepts  of  the  law,  and  learning 
them,  I  have  set  them  firmly  in  my  mind,  and  I  have 
vowed  ever  to  retain  my  virginal  chastity." 

When  Mary  had  completed  twice  seven  years,  the 
Pharisees  objected  that  it  was  contrary  to  their  custom 
that  a  maid  of  that  age  remain  in  the  temple  devoted 
to  the  service  of  God.  Therefore  they  decreed  to  call 
together  all  the  people  so  that  together  they  might  at- 
tempt to  deliberate  upon  the  cause.  And  when  all  were  400 
assembled  beneath  the  roof  of  the  temple,  Abiathar, 
the  priest  of  the  law,  whom  I  have  already  mentioned, 
ascended  the  steep  stairs  and  as  spokesman  addressed 
the  people  there  assembled : 

"You  are  well  aware  that  from  the  time  that  this 
illustrious  temple  was  built  through  the  zeal  of  great 
King  Solomon,  there  have  ever  dwelt  here  maidens  of 
rare  beauty  and  of  tender  age,  the  glorious  progeny  of 
kings,  prophets,  and  likewise  of  our  ancestors,  who  will 
remain  renowned  and  rightly  so  among  the  people  of 
Israel.  But  it  has  likewise  been  the  custom,  that  as  420 
soon  as  they  attain  mature  age  they  be  given  in  mar- 
riage to  such  as  are  worthy,  and  very  often,  in  fact  al- 
ways, they  have  pleased  the  Lord  by  this  step.  But 
the  Virgin  Mary,  contrary  to  the  established  custom, 
believes  that  she  can  please  God  by  despising  men  for 
the  sake  of  the  Lord.  Therefore,  because  it  is  not 
agreed  that  she  may  make  such  a  vow,  it  behooves  us 
to  beg  the  All-High  worthily  by  prayers  that  He  make 
known  to  us  His  commands  concerning  him  to  whom 
this  maid  is  to  be  joined  in  lawful  wedlock." 

-37- 


The  Maria 

430         Tali  consilio  consensu  plebis  adepto, 

Sortem  pontifices  miserunt  primitus  omnes 
Inter  namque  tribus  Israhelis  duodenas; 
Quae  mox  egregiam  ludae  signat  fore  dignam. 
Qua  designata  prae  cunctis  scilicet  una, 
Praecepere  viros  eiusdem  germinis  omnes, 
Quos  sine  coniugibus  fecit  consistere  casus, 
Collectos  ergo  concurrere  sole  secundo 
Et  manibus  virgas  dextris  conferre  novellas. 

His  igitur  cunctis  toto  conamine  lectis, 

440     Advenit  dignus  senior  Joseph  sociatus 

Illis,  incurvam  portans  sub  iudice  virgam. 
At  vero  summus  virgas  toUendo  sacerdos 
Gaudens  cunctorum,  Domino  faciens  holocaustum, 
Quid  fieri  iubeat,  fusis  precibus  rogitabat. 
Cui  mox  indiciis  divinis  ista  iubentur, 
Tempore  digesto  sibi  quae  fuerant  facienda. 
Praemonitus  virgas  qui  misit  protinus  ipsas 
In  templi  sancti  famosi  iure  secretum, 
Demandans,  quidni  collectim  luce  sequenti 

450     ludae  regales  iterum  venisse  nepotes 

Unumquemque  suam  rursum  quoque  sumere  virgam : 

Nam  sibi  pro  signo  dictum  fuerat  manifesto, 

Virgo  quod  haec  credi  deberet  nobilis  illi, 

De  cuius  virga  volitaret  rite  columba. 

Quae  petisse  polum  temptaret  protinus  altum. 


Dum  te  mille  suas  retinerent  denique  captas 
Virgas  personae  praedicto  tempore  certe 
Nee  signum  populo  praedictum  redderat  ulla, 
Obtulit  incensum  praesul  venerabile  rursum 
460     Seque  dedit  precibus  devoto  pectore  fusis. 
Cui  mox  caelesti  dicetur  voce  precanti : 
"Virgula  namque  brevis  Joseph  iusti  senioris. 
Quae  iacet  in  templo  nee  sollicitatur  ab  ullo, 
Implebit  merito  signum  memorabile  sola." 


38 


The  Maria 

When  all  the  people  had  consented  to  this  proposal,  430 
the  chief  priests  first  of  all  drew  lots  among  the  twelve 
tribes  of  Israel.  This  lot  presently  designated  the  dis- 
tinguished tribe  of  Juda  to  be  worthy.  When  this  tribe 
had  thus  been  selected  before  all  others,  all  the  men  of 
that  race  who  chanced  to  be  still  unmarried  were  com- 
manded by  the  priests  to  come  together  on  the  second 
day  and  to  bring  with  them  in  their  right  hand  a 
young  twig. 

When  these  men  had  been  selected  with  every  care,  440 
there  came  with  them  as  a  companion  the  worthy  old 
man,  Joseph,  carrying,  as  he  had  been  ordered,  a 
straight  twig.  Then  the  high  priest  amid  rejoicing 
gathered  the  rods  of  all,  and  offering  a  sacrifice  to  the 
Lord  he  poured  forth  prayers,  imploring  God  that  He 
might  reveal  His  will.  It  was  presently  made  manifest 
to  him  by  divine  indication  what  should  be  done  after 
a  certain  lapse  of  time.  Following  the  divine  instruc- 
tions, the  priest  sent  the  rods  at  once  to  the  holy  place 
set  aside  by  law  in  the  celebrated  temple  and  com- 
manded (and  why  shouldn't  he?)  that  on  the  following 
day  the  descendants  of  the  royal  race  should  return  450 
and  that  each  in  turn  should  recover  his  own  rod.  For 
it  had  been  revealed  to  him  as  a  manifest  sign  that 
the  noble  maiden  was  to  be  entrusted  to  that  youth 
from  whose  rod  a  dove  would  issue  forth  and  seek 
straightway  to  fly  heavenward. 

While  the  three  thousand  youths  at  the  appointed 
time  were  holding  their  individual  rods  which  they  had 
recovered,  and  when  none  of  the  rods  presented  any 
foretelling  sign  to  the  people,  the  priest  again  offered 
sacred  incense  and  gave  himself  to  prayers  poured  out  460 
from  a  devout  heart.  Then  he  heard  a  heavenly  voice 
admonishing  him  thus :  "The  small  rod  of  Joseph,  the 
just  old  man,  which  still  lies  in  the  temple,  has  been 
taken  by  no  one ;  this  alone  will  deservedly  fulfil  the 
promised  prediction." 

-39- 


The  Maria 

His  ita  finitis  sonuit  vox  pontificalis, 
Mandans  in  mediam  loseph  procedere  turbam. 
Hie  erat  abiectus  forma  nullaque  decorus, 
Nee  sibi  eonplaeuit  sociis  interfore  tantis, 
Sed  mage  postremo  gaudet  remanere  loeello. 

470     Qui,  mox  ut  vocem  sensit  se  forte  vocantem, 
Proeessit  pavidus,  virgam  eonprendere  iussus; 
Ex  qua  continuo  splendens  egressa  eolumba 
Haut  tarde  eaelum  fertur  petiisse  seeretum. 
His  ita  transaetis,  laudes  plebs  eoncrepat  omnis, 
Grates  altithrono  reddentes  peetore  laeto, 
Cui  plaeuit  signo  iustum  monstrare  novello. 
Ipse  sed,  aetatis  non  inmemor  ulterioris, 
Protestans,  proeeres  se<se>  genuisse  nepotes, 
Magno  pereerte  fertur  rogitare  pudore 

480     Pontifices,  Mariam  quo  non  vellent  sibi  pulehram, 
Ipsius  proprio  sed  sponsam  tradere  nato. 
Quod  eum  forte  negant  se  signatum  quoque  narrant 
Nee  euiquam  eredi  sanctam  debere  puellam 
Quam  sibi,  quem  Dominus  solum  feeit  fore  dignum, 
Exorans  alias  eoepit  rogitare  puellas 
Mitti  eum  Maria  eausa  solaminis  ergo, 
Quae,  veluti  eonnutritae  sociaeque  coaevae, 
Illam  colloquii  scirent  solamine  dulei 
Absque  mora  consolari,  ne  virgo  pudori 

490     Coniuge  pro  vetulo  fieret  subieeta  tenella. 
Quod  mox  pontifices  fieri  iussere  potentes. 
Nam  senior  f  rustra  sudaverat  ista  rogando, 
Non  sibi,  sed  Christo  fuerat  quia  virgo  dicata. 

Postquam  pontifices  preculis  cessere  precantis, 
loseph  servandam  suscepit  namque  puellam 
Et  pariter  missas  (ni  fallor,  quinque)  puellas; 
Quarum  sic  ergo  creduntur  nomina  dicta : 
Sephiphora,  Zabel,  Susanna,  Rebecca,  Abigea. 
Quis  opus  ad  templi  pertingens  namque  sacrati 
500     Traditur  ornatum  studiose  perficiendum, 

Coccus  cum  bysso,  linum  cum  vellere  Serum; 

-40- 


The  Maria 

Upon  hearing  these  words  the  pontiff  with  a  loud 
voice  demanded  that  Joseph  come  forward  into  the 
crowd.  He,  since  he  was  humble  and  without  outward 
charm,  found  no  pleasure  in  mingling  among  such 
handsome  associates,  but  preferred  rather  to  remain 
in  the  lowest  place.  As  soon,  however,  as  he  had  heard 
the  voice  of  the  pontiff  calling  him,  he  advanced  470 
trembling  to  seize  the  rod  as  he  had  been  ordered.  In- 
stantly, it  is  told,  a  beautiful  dove  came  forth  from  the 
rod  and  unhesitatingly  sought  the  heavens.  At  this  all 
present  burst  forth  into  h>Tnns  of  praise  and  with  joy- 
ful hearts  rendered  thanks  to  the  Most  High,  Who  had 
deigned  to  select  the  just  man  by  so  novel  a  sign.  But 
Joseph,  not  unmindful  of  his  advanced  years,  protest- 
ing that  he  himself  had  begotten  children,  begged,  it  is 
said,  with  great  modesty,  that  the  priests  should  not 
will  to  give  the  beautiful  Mary  to  him,  but  that  rather  480 
they  give  her  as  spouse  to  one  of  his  sons.  When  they 
refused  this  firmly  and  told  him  that  it  was  he  who  had 
been  designated  and  that  they  dared  not  entrust  the 
maid  to  any  other  but  to  him  whom  the  Lord  had  in- 
dicated to  be  alone  worthy,  he  pleadingly  began  to 
entreat  that  some  maidens  be  sent  with  Mary,  girls 
who  had  been  brought  up  with  her  and  who  were  of 
her  age.  These,  he  argued  would  know  how  to  comfort 
her  with  tender  words,  lest  the  delicate  maid  be  sub- 
jected to  embarrassment  because  of  the  advanced  age 
of  her  spouse.  The  priests  commanded  that  this  be 
done,  for  Joseph  had  spent  himself  vainly  pleading 
that  this  Virgin  was  not  for  him,  but  that  she  had  been 
consecrated  to  Christ.  After  the  pontiffs  had  yielded 
to  the  petitions  of  the  pleading  Joseph,  the  latter 
undertook  the  custody  of  the  Virgin,  with  whom  also 
five,  if  I  mistake  not,  of  the  other  virgins  were  sent  as 
escorts.  These  were,  it  is  believed :  Sephiphora,  Zabel, 
Susanna,  Rebecca,  and  Abigea.  To  these  maids,  it  is 
said,  it  was  assigned  to  adorn  the  sacred  temple ;  to 
embroider  purple  and  cotton,    linen    and    silk    from     500 

-41- 


The  Maria 

Purpura  sed  sanctae  fulgens  operanda  Mariae 
Creditur  ad  velum  domini  templi  pretiosum. 

His  super  accensae  praesentes  quippe  puellae 
Obprobrii  causa  dixerunt  taliter  ergo: 
"Num  te  reginam  constat  post  haec  fore  nostram, 
lam  texenda  tibi  quia  purpura  creditur  uni, 
Non  parvo  cum  sis  iunior  tu  tempore  nobis?" 
Quae  tunc,  ut  semper,  bene  sustinuit  patienter 
510     Talia  nee  verbo  iam  contradixerat  ullo. 

Astans  sed  citius  custos  semper  sibi  fidus, 
Angelus  astrigera  dilapsus,  dixit,  ab  aula: 
"Si  te,  virgo,  rogo,  perturbent  talia  verba, 
Istae  percerte  quia  vatum  more  locutae 
lam  nunc  praesaga  dicebant  voce  futura, 
Tu  quia  sola  potenter  eris  regina  perennis 
Necnon  stelligeri  dominatrix  inclita  caeli." 

Post  haec  secreta  sedebat  in  aede  quieta, 
Purpureos  digitis  filos  operans  benedictis. 
520     Angelus  et  summus  Gabrihel  conspectibus  eius 
Astitit,  astrigera  caelorum  lapsus  ab  aula, 
Virgineumque  decus  verbis  affatur  amicis, 
luxta  cunctorum,  narrans,  oracula  vatum 
Ipsius  e  casto  nasci  dignarier  alvo 
Altithroni  prolem  mundo  satis  antiquiorem, 
Virgineique  modum  partus  narrat  memorandum. 

Ergo  non  nostris  potis  est  exponier  orsis 
Nobile  colloquium,  longo  sermone  peractum, 
Virginis  aeternae,  Christi  Matri^  benedictae, 
530     Partus  et  tanti  sacra  narrantis  paranimphi: 
Sed  nee  dactilicis  opus  est  nos  psallere  cordis 
Magnum  maerorem  Joseph  durumque  dolorem, 
Frustra  cordetenus  quo  iam  fuerat  cruciatus, 
Talem  dum  gravidam  sensisset  forte  puellam, 
Qualiter  et  tristis  solatur  tempore  noctis, 

-42- 


The  Maria 

China.  But  to  the  Holy  Mary  was  entrusted  the  work- 
ing of  the  purple  to  serve  as  a  veil  for  the  temple  of 
the  Lord. 

Some  of  the  maids  of  the  temple,  envious  because  of 
this  privilege,  spoke  to  Mary  taunting  words  such  as 
these :  "Is  it  perhaps  decreed  that  some  day  thou  art 
to  be  our  Queen  because  to  thee  alone  is  the  purple 
entrusted  to  be  wrought,  even  though  thou  art  our 
junior  by  not  a  few  years?"  Yet  Mary  always  bore 
these  things  patiently  and  did  not  retort  with  a  single  510 
word. 

Thereupon  her  angel  guardian,  ever  faithful,  who 
had  come  down  from  the  starry  heavens,  promptly 
spoke  these  words  :  **If ,  O  Virgin,  such  speech  disturb 
thee,  I  tell  thee  that  these  maidens  have  spoken  them 
verily  in  the  manner  of  prophets  and  have  already 
with  presaging  voice  told  the  future;  for  thou  shalt 
be  a  mighty  Queen  throughout  all  ages  and  the 
illustrious  Mistress  of  the  heavenly  realms," 

Some  time  after  this  Mary  was  seated  in  quiet  se- 
clusion within  her  home,  her  blessed  fingers  spinning 
the  delicate  threads.  Presently  the  archangel  Gabriel,  520 
coming  down  from  the  starry  vault  of  the  heavens, 
stood  before  her  and  addressed  the  modest  Virgin  in 
affectionate  words,  telling  her  that  according  to  the 
predictions  of  all  the  prophets,  from  her  chaste  womb 
the  Son  of  the  Most  High,  far  more  ancient  than  the 
world,  would  be  born.  And  he  likewise  related  to  her 
the  miraculous  manner  of  the  virgin  birth. 

It  is  not  possible  to  set  forth  in  our  tongue  this 
noble  colloquy,  drawn  out  in  lengthy  discourse,  be- 
tween the  perpetual  Virgin,  the  Blessed  Mother  of 
Christ,  and  this  messenger  narrating  the  mystery  of 
this  exalted  birth.  Nor  is  it  needful  to  sing  in  dactylic  530 
strains  the  great  sorrow  and  hard  grief  of  Saint 
Joseph:  how  he  was  afflicted  with  anxious  tortures 
within  his  innermost  soul  when  he  had  become  aware 
that  his  maiden-spouse  was  with  child ;    then  further- 

-  43  - 


The  Maria 

Virginis  intactae  iussus  curam  retinere 
Virginis  et  nati  nobis  de  sidere  missi: 
Haec  evangelic!  demonstrant  cuncta  libelli, 
540     Nostras  et  fragiles  excedunt  denique  vires. 

His  nos  transmissis,  constant  quia  cognita  cunctis, 
Sermonem  vobis  tantum  faciemus  ab  illis, 
Rarius  in  templo  quae  creduntur  fore  dicta. 

Certe  cum  stabilem  volitans  urgueret  in  orbem 
Undique  subiectos  describi  iussio  lectos 
Caesaris  augusti  censumque  sibi  profiteri, 
Joseph  ad  patriam  Bethlem  perrexerat  urbem 
Cum  desponsata  sibimet  praegnanta  Maria. 
Et  cum  famosis  essent  prope  moenibus  urbis, 
Aspexit — non  corporeis,  sed  mentis  ocellis — 

550     Comminus  alma  duos  virguncula  stare  popellos, 
Unum  ridentem  necnon  alium  lacrimantem. 
Quod  Joseph  vetulo  narrans,  audivit  ab  illo: 
"Contine  subiecto  tantum  te  rite  iumento 
Et  noli,  posco,  narrare  superflua  verba." 

Dixerat,  et  iuvenem  coram  prospexit  herilem, 
Qui  sibi  mysterium  declaravit  populorum, 
Talia  sacrata  dicens  pro  virgine  verba: 
"Cur  dicis  Mariam  non  verbula  vera  locutam, 
Indignatus  eam  secretum  cemere  solam? 

560     Nam  flentem  populum  merito  vidit  ludeorum, 
Qui  mox  a  domino  discedet  corde  maligno, 
Contra  gentilem  sed  laetitia  fluitantem, 
Ad  fidei  magnum  quia  perveniet  sacramentum." 


His  dictis  Mariam  blande  conversus  ad  almam, 
Tempus  adesse  sibi  Christum  narrat  pariendi. 
Quae  de  subiecto  descendit  iussa  iumento, 
Intrans  speluncam  sub  terra  rite  locatam, 
Quae  male  praesentis  penitus  fuit  inscia  lucis 
Et  quam  continuae  semper  tenuere  tenebrae. 


44 


The  Maria 

more  how  in  his  grief  he  was  solaced  during  the  night 
and  commanded  to  take  into  his  care  the  spotless 
Virgin  and  the  Child  Which  was  sent  from  on  High. 
These  things  are  all  told  in  the  Gospels,  and  they  far 
exceed  our  feeble  effort  of  narration.  Therefore  omit-  540 
ting  them  because  they  are  known  to  all,  we  shall  take 
for  you  from  them  only  that  instruction  which  we  be- 
lieve to  be  rarely  mentioned  in  the  house  of  God. 

When  the  edict  of  Augustus  Caesar  sped  into  the 
established  world,  compelling  all  his  subjects  to  come 
together  from  all  sides  to  be  enrolled  and  to  profess 
their  subjection  to  him,  Joseph  set  out  to  Bethlehem 
with  his  espoused  wife  who  was  with  child.  And  when 
they  were  nearing  the  illustrious  city,  the  tender  Vir- 
gin beheld,  not  indeed  with  the  eyes  of  her  body,  but 
with  those  of  her  soul,  two  men  standing  near,  the  550 
one  mirthful,  the  other  in  tears.  When  she  told  this 
vision  to  Joseph  she  heard  from  him  these  words: 
"Keep  thy  place  on  that  beast  of  burden,  and  do  not, 
pray,  say  such  meaningless  words." 

When  he  had  said  this  he  saw  before  him  a  youth 
from  the  Lord,  who  explained  to  him  the  meaning  of 
the  mysterious  men  and  then  spoke  to  him  in  defense 
of  the  sacred  Virgin :  "Why  dost  thou  say  that  Mary 
has  spoken  untrue  words,  being  indignant  because  she 
alone  discerns  the  secret?  For  in  the  weeping  citizen 
she  rightly  perceived  the  Jewish  race  which  will  560 
presently  with  malignant  heart  depart  from  God ;  on 
the  other  hand  she  saw  the  gentile  nation,  abounding 
in  joy,  because  it  shall  come  to  the  great  blessing  of 
the  faith." 

When  he  had  finished  these  words,  the  messenger 
turned  tenderly  toward  the  Mother  and  told  her  that 
the  time  was  come  for  her  to  give  birth  to  Christ. 
Mary,  as  she  had  been  commanded,  alighted  from  the 
beast  which  had  carried  her  and  entered  a  grotto  locat- 
ed beneath  the  ground,  into  which  scarcely  any  light 
penetrated,  and  where  darkness  ever  held  continuous 

-45- 


The  Maria 

570     Sed,  mox  ut  lucem  genitrix  paritura  perennem 
Hanc  adiit,  radiis  coepit  fulgere  coruscis, 
Nee  post  haec  ibi  caelestis  lux  defuit  omni 
Tempore,  quo  genitrix  illic  mansit  bene  felix. 


Noctis  tranquillae  medio  libramine  certe 
Illic  haec  eadem  genuit  virguncula  prolem 
Gaudens  divinam  cunctis  saeclis  venerandam, 
Cui  nomen  lesus,  cui  sit  laus  gloria  virtus, 
Solvere  qui  veterum  veniens  oracula  vatum 
Se  pro  salvando  venturum  praescia  mundo 

580     Pacem  caelicolis  fecit  cum  civibus  orbis. 
Quern  genitum  sacro  castae  de  virginis  alvo 
Protinus  angelicus  circumstat  denique  coetus, 
Laudans  submissis  factorem  vocibus  orbis, 
Orans  et  puerum  nobis  de  sidere  missum. 
Sed  mater  subito  cunctis  veneranda,  Maria, 
Collocat  angusto  praesepi  membra  tenella 
Christi,  panniculis  regem  volvendo  perennem. 

At  pius  interea  Joseph  digressus  ab  ilia 
Mox  obstetrices  secum  duxit  mulieres, 

590     Quae  Zelemi,  Salome  fuerant  de  nomine  dictae. 
Sola  sed  ingreditur  Zelemi,  Salomeque  veretur 
Tangere  speluncam  pedibus  splendore  repletam; 
Mox  quoque  virgineum  Zelemi  tractans  pie  partum, 
Exclamans,  signi,  dixit,  bene  credula  tanti: 
"Quid  sibi  non  nuptae  partus  vult  iste  novellus? 
Editus  ecce  puer  regali  germine  nuper 
Coniugis  expertem  bene  declarat  fore  matrem. 
Atque  parens  virgo  natum  lactat  pie  sola 
Uberibus  castis  de  caelo  iure  repletis; 

600     Non  dolor  est  matri,  nee  est  maculatio  proli, 
Ordine  divino  fieri  sed  talia  credo." 


Hanc  Salome  vocem  spernens  non  ficta  loquentem 
Dixerat  auditis  sese  non  credere  verbis, 

-46- 


The  Maria 

sway.  But  as  soon  as  the  Blessed  Mother,  about  to  570 
bring  forth  the  Eternal  Light,  had  entered  the  cave,  a 
heavenly  radiance  began  to  break  forth,  nor  did  this 
celestial  light  cease  to  illumine  this  hallowed  spot 
whilst  the  Mother  of  God,  supremely  happy,  remained 
there. 

Here  in  the  calm  midnight  hour  the  Virgin  Mother 
in  joy  brought  forth  her  divine  Child,  venerated 
throughout  all  ages,  Jesus,  to  Whom  be  praise,  glory, 
and  power;  Who  coming  to  fulfil  the  predictions  of 
the  ancient  prophets,  fortelling  that  He  was  to  come 
into  the  world  for  our  salvation,  established  peace  be- 
tween the  heavenly  citizens  and  the  terrestrial.  As  580 
soon  as  the  Blessed  Virgin,  all  chaste,  had  brought 
forth  her  Child,  there  appeared  a  throng  of  heavenly 
citizens  praising  in  subdued  tones  the  Maker  of  the 
universe,  celebrating  the  Child  sent  for  us  from  the 
stars.  But  presently  venerable  Mother  Maiy  wrapped 
the  tender  limbs  of  Christ,  the  Eternal  King,  in  swad- 
dling clothes  and  laid  Him  in  a  narrow  manger. 

Meanwhile  the  saintly  Joseph  had  gone  out  and 
presently  returned  with  Zelemi  and  Salome,  two 
women  who  were  to  assist  the  Blessed  Mother.  Zelemi  590 
entered  alone,  for  Salome  feared  to  touch  with  her  feet 
a  place  so  replete  with  heavenly  splendor.  But  Zelemi, 
fondling  the  Child  of  the  holy  Virgin,  well  believing 
such  a  great  manifestation,  cried  out  and  said :  "What 
is  the  meaning  of  this  strange  delivery  of  a  virgin? 
Behold  this  Boy,  but  lately  sprung  from  a  royal  race, 
well  declares  that  His  Mother  knows  not  man.  And 
behold  here  a  Virgin,  unaided,  reverently  nourishes 
her  Babe  at  her  chaste  breasts  which  by  the  pov/er  of 
heaven  have  been  made  replete  with  milk.  Nor  does 
the  Mother  suffer  any  pain,  nor  do  I  see  signs  of  the  600 
recent  birth.  I  believe  that  such  great  things  could  be 
done  only  by  divine  intervention." 

Salome  however,  despising  the  voice  which  was  not 
speaking  falsehood,  said  that  she  would  not  believe  the 

-47- 


The  Maria 

Ni  probet  ipsa  sacram  palma  tangendo  Mariam. 
Hinc  ingressa  suam  coepit  protendere  dextram 
Audacter,  castam  temptans  palpare  Mariam ; 
Sed  talis  poenam  confert  audacia  dignam, 
Dextraque  continue  temptatrix  debilitata 
Ingenti  certe  cruciatur  iure  dolore. 

610     Tunc  Salome  damans  animo  subtristis  amaro 
Defectum  dextrae  subitum  deflevit  ademptae; 
Moreque  ludaico  proprium  meritum  recitando 
Necnon  iustitia  sat  confidens  simulata 
Talia  celsithrono  fertur  dare  verba  dolendo: 
"Testis  cunctorum  consolatorque  laborum, 
Tu  scis,  praeceptis  fueram  quod  sedula  legis, 
Quodque  tui  causa  semper  fueram  bene  larga 
Pauperibus  cunctis  lectis  de  finibus  orbis: 
Qui  maerens  venit,  de  me  quoque  laetior  ivit. 

620     Et  nunc  pro  meritis  patior  dampnum  grave  tantis !' 


Cui  mox  apparens  iuvenis  praelucidus  infit: 
"Panniculos  pueri  solummodo  tange  tenelli, 
Accedens  istas  ad  regales  cito  cunas: 
Ipseque  maiori  te  restituet  sanitati." 
Haec  ubi  iussa  sibi  sequitur  solamina  dantis, 
Tangendo  minimum  pannorum  denique  filum, 
Sensit  se  subito  salvam  fore  corpore  toto, 
Et  grates  Domino  reddebat  voce  canora, 
Qui  sibi  dignatur  talem  conferre  salutem. 


630         Ordine  digesto  postquam  fuit  ergo  repleta 

Visio  pastorum,  signum  sibimet  quoque  dictum 
De  parvo  puero  praesepibus  inveniendo, 
Ipsius  pueri  quoque  circumcisio  Christi 
Nominis  atque  sui  fulgens  aptatio  magni, 

-48- 


The  Maria 

words  she  heard  unless  she  could  prove  them  by  touch- 
ing with  her  own  hand  the  holy  Virgin.  Then  boldly 
advancing  she  began  to  stretch  forth  her  right  hand, 
attempting  to  touch  Mary.  But  such  audacity  brought 
its  own  just  punishment,  for  immediately  the  right 
hand  which  was  to  make  trial  withered,  and  well-de- 
sei'ving  the  woman  suffered  excruciating  pain.  There- 
upon, crying  out  in  the  bitterness  of  her  heart,  the  610 
saddened  Salome  bewailed  the  fault  which  had  so  un- 
expectedly deprived  her  of  her  right  hand.  Then  ac- 
cording to  Jewish  custom  she  rehearsed  her  own 
merits,  and  trusting  fully  in  her  own  feigned  justice, 
she  sent  up  to  the  heavenly  throne  these  words  amid 
distress :  "0  Thou  Who  art  the  Witness  and  Consoler 
of  all  our  sufferings.  Thou  knowest  that  I  have  been 
zealous  in  keeping  the  precepts  of  Thy  holy  law,  and 
for  Thy  sake  I  have  ever  been  generous  to  the  poor 
brought  together  from  all  parts  of  the  globe.  He  who 
came  to  me  sad  left  me  with  a  light  heart.  And  now 
for  such  good  deeds  I  must  suffer  so  grievous  an  af- 
fliction!" 620 

Presently  there  appeared  a  youth  of  celestial  beauty, 
who  said  to  her:  "Do  thou  approach  quickly  the 
royal  cradle  there,  and  touch  only  the  swathing  bands 
of  the  sleeping  Infant.  The  Babe  Himself  will  restore 
thee  to  even  more  perfect  health." 

When  she  had  obeyed  the  encouraging  command  of 
the  messenger,  by  touching  but  the  tiniest  thread  of 
the  linens  she  suddenly  felt  herself  wholly  freed  from 
her  malady.  Thereupon  with  words  of  song  she 
rendered  thanks  to  God,  Who  had  deigned  to  confer 
upon  her  this  boon. 

After  a  vision  of  the  shepherds  had  occured  in  the     630 
order  assigned,  a  sign  was  also  given  them  as  to  how 
they  would  find  the  tiny  Boy  lying  in  a  manger ;    then 
followed  also  the  circumcision  of  the  Babe  and  the 
glorious  bestowal  of  His  sacred  Name. 

-49- 


The  Maria 

Reges  astrologi  solis  de  cardine  lecti 
Advenere,  magi  stellarum  lege  periti, 
Quaerentes  urbem  famosam  denique  Salem, 
Necnon  Herodem  constant!  pectore  regem 
Sollicitant  regis  de  nativitate  recentis, 

640     Se  vidisse  novam  fantes  nuperrime  stellam, 
Quae  regem  natum  demonstraret  ludeorum. 
His  rex  turbatus  secreta  mente  profanus 
Accitis  citius  scribis,  audivit  ab  illis, 
Certe  Bethleis  nasci  quod  Christus  in  horis 
luxta  cunctorum  deberet  carmina  vatum: 
Scilicet  atque  magis  iussit  cum  fraude  remissis, 
Ut  puerum  quaerant  natum,  sibimet  quoque  monstrent. 
Quern  cupit  occidi,  simulans  se  velle  precari. 
Qui  monstrante  viam  stella  pergunt  cita  rectam, 

650     Intrant  et  pueri  regalia  tecta  tenelli 

Haut  vario  certe  digestim  picta  colore, 
Sideris  obsequio  tanti  sed  rite  polita ; 
Proni  vestigiis  figentes  oscula  prolis, 
Orantes  preculis  humili  quoque  voce  profusis, 
Trino  caelestem  venerantur  munere  regem 
Hunc  hominemque  Deum  designantes  moriturum. 
Qui,  mox  in  somnis  moniti  sub  tempore  noctis. 
Ad  patriam  laeti  redeunt,  per  devia  ducti. 


His  ita  digestis,  Herodes  pessimus  hostis 
660     Augusti  iussu  Romam  deducitur  ergo, 

Quo  vel  purgaret,  lex  ut  Romana  doceret, 
Criminis  inposita  de  magni  se  cito  culpa 
Vel  capitis  poenam  iuste  pateretur  amaram 
Namque  reus  maiestatis  dicetur  herilis. 
Et  merito  talem  patitur  iam  suspicionem. 
Qui  cupit  insidiis  vulpino  corde  paratis 
Prolem  caelestis  divinam  perdere  regis. 
Hoc  nam  divino  nutu  factum  fore  credo, 

-50- 


The  Maria 

The  Kings  also  came,  astrologers  summoned  from 
the  land  of  the  rising  sun,  Magi  skilled  in  the  law  of 
the  stars,  seeking  the  famous  city  of  Jerusalem,  and 
they  with  firm  faith  asked  Herod  the  King  concerning 
the  birthplace  of  the  new-born  King,  saying  that  they  640 
had  but  lately  seen  the  star  which  told  them  that  the 
King  of  the  Jews  had  been  born. 

When  the  wicked  monarch  heard  these  words  he 
was  troubled  in  his  innermost  soul,  and  speedily  sum- 
moning his  scribes  he  learned  from  them  that  the 
Christ  was  destined  to  be  born  in  the  confines  of  Beth- 
lehem according  to  the  predictions  of  the  prophets.  He 
therefore  deceitfully  commanded  them  to  seek  the  Boy 
and  then  to  tell  him  also  where  to  find  Him,  pretend- 
ing that  he  wished  to  adore  Him  though  in  reality  he 
desired  to  destroy  Him.  But  the  Magi,  when  the  star 
had  shown  them  the  direct  way,  hastened  at  once  and 
entered  the  royal  palace  of  the  tender  Babe;  palace 
indeed,  yet  adorned  with  no  ornaments  fashioned  in  650 
many  colors,  but  duly  embellished  by  the  homage  of 
that  wondrous  star.  Falling  upon  their  knees,  the 
kings  covered  the  tiny  feet  of  the  Babe  with  kisses,  at 
the  same  time  pouring  forth  from  humble  hearts  pro- 
fuse prayers  and  honoring  Him  with  a  three-fold  gift 
designating  Him  as  King,  as  God,  and  as  Man  destined 
to  die.  But  having  been  admonished  in  sleep  during 
the  night,  they  returned  joyfully  by  a  devious  route  to 
their  own  country. 

Some  time  after  these  events,  Herod,  the  wicked 
enemy,  was  summoned  to  Rome  by  the  command  of  660 
Augustus,  in  order  that,  as  the  Roman  law  prescribed, 
he  might  vindicate  himself  from  a  great  crime  im- 
puted to  him  or  shortly  suffer  the  bitter  penalty  of 
death,  for  he  was  to  be  arraigned  on  a  charge  of 
treason.  And  justly  even  then  was  he  laboring  under 
suspicion,  for  in  his  crafty  mind  he  was  meditating 
schemes  by  which  he  might  put  to  death  the  divine 
Son  of  the  Heavenly  King.    I  believe  tliat  it  came  to 

-51- 


The  Maria 

Quod  tunc  percerte  Romam  mandatur  adire, 
670     Quo  sibi  subtracto  legis  mandamina  cuncta 
Plenius  in  nato  complerentur  cito  Christo. 


Namque  quater  denis  cursu  ducente  peractis 
Virginei  partus  digestim  rite  diebus, 
His  factor  membris  caelorum  namque  tenellis 
Sistitur  in  proprio  parvo  cum  munere  templo, 
Ulnis  exceptus  tremulis  iusti  Symeonis, 
Et  mundi  Dominus  condignis  est  benedictus 
Odis  ex  ipso  iusto  Simeone  vetusto 
Necnon  famosa  praesagis  vocibus  Anna. 
680     His  quoque  completis  iuxta  mandamina  legis 

Ad  patriam  Bethlem  redierunt  protinus  urbem. 

Nam  post  haec  binis  mansurnis  paene  repletis 
Hostis  ab  exilio  veniens  perversus  amaro, 
Quod  dixere  magi,  volvebat  mente  dolenti, 
Se  nati  stellam  regis  vidisse  decoram. 
Haec  recolens,  proceres  regni  rogitabat  heriles, 
An  redeundo  magi  venissent  mente  fideli 
Vel  quid  de  nato  demandarent  sibi  Christo. 
Qui  mox  responsis  pariter  dicunt  bene  firmis 
690     Se  nescire,  magi  fuerint  si  forte  reversi, 
Nee  quid  de  nato  sese  perdiscere  rege. 


His  super  accensus  rex  Herodes  furibundus 
Mittens,  infantes  occidi  protinus  omnes, 
Qui  tunc  Bethleis  fuerant,  praecepit,  in  oris, 
Se  semper  vivum  sperans  extinguere  Christum 
Posse.    Sed  in  somnis  monitus,  Joseph  venerandus 
Pergit  in  Aegyptum,  vasti  per  devia  secum 
Deducens  eremi  lesum  cum  matre  teneHum, 
Nocti  terrestris  Christo  dominante  timoris. 
700     Talia  sed  solito  fecit  pietate  superna, 


52- 


The  Maria 

pass  by  divine  decree  that  Herod  was  at  this  moment 
to  go  to  Rome,  so  that  the  new-born  Christ  having 
escaped  from  him,  all  ordinances  concerning  Him 
might  more  amply  be  fulfilled. 

For  when  four  times  ten  days  had  completed  their  670 
course  after  His  birth  from  the  Virgin,  the  Creator 
of  the  universe,  as  a  tender  Infant,  was  presented  in 
His  own  temple  wuth  the  offerings  of  the  poor.  Here 
it  was  that  He  was  taken  into  the  trembling  arms  of 
the  just  Simeon,  and  the  Creator  of  the  world  was 
blessed  by  the  worthy  songs  of  the  just  old  man, 
Simeon,  and  by  the  prophetic  voice  of  illustrious  Anna. 
Having  fulfilled  all  those  things  which  the  law  com-  680 
manded,  the  Holy  Family  returned  again  to  Bethle- 
hem, their  native  city. 

After  the  expiration  of  about  two  years,  Herod,  the 
wicked  enemy,  returned  as  from  bitter  exile.  He  pon- 
dered in  his  stricken  heart  the  words  of  the  Magi,  who 
said  that  they  had  seen  the  beauteous  star  of  the  new- 
born King.  Nourishing  these  thoughts,  he  summoned 
the  vassal  princes  of  the  realm  and  inquired  from  them 
whether  the  Magi,  true  to  their  promise,  had  returned 
or  had  reported  anything  concerning  the  birth  of 
Christ.  These  all  alike  readily  made  unwavering  an- 
swer that  they  did  not  know  whether  perchance  the 
Magi  had  returned,  nor  had  they  themselves  learned 
aught  concerning  the  birth  of  the  King.  690 

Herod  was  furious  on  hearing  these  reports,  and  he 
sent  his  bands  ordering  them  to  put  to  death  all  the 
infants  in  the  confines  of  Bethlehem,  hoping  thus  to  be 
able  to  destroy  the  Eternal  Christ.  But  the  venerable 
Joseph,  after  being  admonished  in  sleep,  fled  at  night 
into  Egypt,  leading  through  devious  paths  of  a  vast 
desert  the  tender  Jesus  and  His  Mother,  under  the 
guidance  of  Christ,  Who  subdued  the  blackness  of 
earthly  fear.  As  was  His  custom,  He  with  heavenly 
goodness  performed  many  wonders,  so  that  He  might     700 

-53- 


The  Maria 

Egipti  tenebras  propria  quo  luce  vetustas 
Mox  illustraret  per  se  penitusque  fugaret. 

Contigit  ergo  die  quadam,  requiescere  velle 
luxta  speluncam  sancta  cum  prole  Mariam. 
Quae  sat  lassa  solo  fuerat  cum  forte  locata, 
Scilicet  in  gremio  lesum  molli  refovendo, 
Multi  terribiles  procedunt  namque  dracones 
Ex  hac  spelunca,  pro  qua  f  uit  ipsa  locata ; 
Quos  Joseph  pueri  cernentes,  obstupefacti 
710     Coeperunt  certe  magno  clamare  timore. 
At  puer  e  gremio  matris  surrexit  amando, 
lesus,  sacratis  stabat  mitis  quoque  plantis 
Contra  frendentes  turbata  mente  dracones; 
Qui  subito  proni  ceciderunt  manuefacti, 
Orantes  tacitis  factorem  nutibus  orbis, 
Ipseque  digrediens  eremi  per  devia  vasti 
Illos  praecessit  sequier  sese  quoque  iussit. 

Quo  Joseph  viso  genitrix  Christique  sacrata 
Exanimes  fragilis  pro  consuetudine  carnis 
720     Facti,  sat  pavitant,  puerum  laedique  timebant. 

Ipse  sed,  inspector  mentis,  testis  quoque  cordis, 
Haec  responsa  dedit  timidis  conversus  et  inquid : 
"Quare  lactantes  tantum  tractabitis  artus 
In  me,  virtutem  capitis  nee  mente  perennem? 
Quamvis  humanis  sim  parvus  homuncio  membris, 
Vir  tamen  omnipotens  summo  sum  humine  pollens, 
Condecet  atque  feras  silvae  mansuescere  cunctas 
Me  coram,  rabie  dimissa  rite  priore." 


Post  haec  magnanimes  cum  pardis  namque  leones 
730     Necnon  cunctigenae  venerunt  undique  lectae 
Ut  sensere  ferae  prolem  factoris  adesse, 
Orantes  puerum  submissa  voce  tenellum, 
Circa  praeclaram  gaudentes  atque  Mariam. 
Quam  super  insolito  pavitantem  denique  signo 

-54- 


The  Maria 

enlighten  with  His  own  light  the  ancient  darkness  of 
Egypt  and  utterly  dispel  it  through  His  own  divine 
power. 

It  happened  one  day  that  Mary  wished  to  rest  with 
her  divine  Child  near  a  cave.  When  spent  and  weary 
she  chanced  to  be  seated  on  the  ground  and  was  fond- 
ling the  Babe  in  her  tender  bosom,  many  dread 
dragons  came  forth  from  the  grotto  before  which  she 
was  sitting.  When  the  sons  of  Joseph  saw  them,  they 
were  stupefied  with  fear  and  began  to  cry  aloud  in  710 
terror.  But  the  Baby  Jesus  raised  Himself  from  the 
loving  lap  of  His  Mother  and  meekly  stood  on  sacred 
Feet  facing  the  wildly  raging  beasts.  These  suddenly 
fell  subdued  to  the  ground,  in  silent  worship  doing 
homage  to  the  Maker  of  the  universe.  Then  He  Him- 
self turning  aside  led  the  way  through  devious  desert 
paths  and  commanded  the  beasts  to  follow  Him. 

Joseph  and  the  Blessed  Mother  of  Christ  seeing 
these  things  were  terror-stricken,  and,  subject  as  they 
were  to  the  frailties  of  human  nature,  they  trembled 
and  feared  that  harm  might  come  to  the  Boy.  720 

But  He,  Who  "searches  the  hearts  and  the  reins," 
turned  toward  His  frightened  parents  and  said :  "Why 
will  you  fondle  only  my  infant  limbs  and  not  under- 
stand the  eternal  might  of  My  Will?  For  even  though 
I  am  a  weak  infant  clothed  in  human  form,  I  am 
nevertheless  mighty  because  of  the  eternal  power  of 
My  divine  Nature.  It  therefore  behooves  all  the  fierce 
beasts  of  the  wilderness  to  become  subdued  before  Me 
and  put  aside  the  one-time  savageness  of  their  nature." 

After  this,  from  all  sides  came  stout-hearted  lions 
with  leopards  and  every  species  of  beasts  flocking  to-  730 
gether,  when  they  had  been  made  aware  that  the  Son 
of  God  was  in  their  midst;  in  mute  silence  they  paid 
tribute  to  Him,  joyfully  surrounding  the  illustrious 
Virgin. 

-55- 


The  Maria 

Laetius  intuitus,  fertur  sic  dicere  Christus: 
"Non  te,  virgo,  rogo,  pollens,  genitrix  mea  cara, 
Permoveat  signi  novitas  carnaliter  almi, 
Obsequii  sola  veniunt  istae  quia  causa, 
Non  quod  te  vellent  vel  saltim  laedere  possent." 

740     His  quoque  discessit  dictis  angustia  cordis. 
At  vero  belvae  praecedebant  bene  laetae, 
Demonstrando  viam  per  deserti  loca  rectam; 
Sed  nee  nocturnis  discesserat  ulla  sub  horis, 
Sed  Joseph  pecori  sociatae  mente  fideli 
Oblita  rabie  naturalique  furore 
Pacificae  modici  gustabant  pascua  foeni. 
Inter  quas  ergo  fuerat  concordia  tanta, 
Ut  quondam  timidi  iunxere  lupis  latus  agni, 
Et  bovibus  mites  bene  conmansere  leones. 

750     Sed  non  inmerito:     caelorum  pax  quia  vera, 
Quo  regit  inmensum,  firmavit  foedere,  caelum, 
Illarum  mentes  mutato  more  fideles. 


Post  haec  pausavit,  radiis  lassata  caloris 
Aestivi,  cara  palmae  Maria  sub  umbra, 
Et  sursum  versis  Claris  aspexit  ocellis 
Fructibus  hanc  palmam  maturis  esse  refertam. 
His  visis  lingua  f  ormavit  talia  verba : 
"Istius  palmae  nimium  delector  onustae. 
Si  potis  est  fieri,  de  fructu  denique  vesci." 

760         Cui  senior  vetulus  legis  moderamine  iustus 
Haut  blande  dictis  loseph  mox  obviat  istis: 
"Hoc  miror  certe  nimium  te  dicere  velle. 
Cum  videas  ramos  magno  de  germine  ductos 
Astris  contiguos  caelum  pulsare  profundum. 
Ast  ego  praecogito  summa  tantummodo  cura. 
Si  saltim  valeam  puram  conprendere  lympham, 
Utribus  in  nostris  quia  nee  est  guttula  fontis." 
Haec  heros  igitur  venerandus  sic  loquebatur, 
Ceu  desperaret,  quod  praesens  omnia  posset 

-  56  - 


The  Maria 

When  Jesus  beheld  His  Mother  frightened  at  such 
an  unusual  spectacle,  He  regarded  her  smilingly  and  is 
said  to  have  spoken  to  this  effect :  "Do  not,  I  pray 
thee.  Virgin  powerful  and  Mother  dear,  humanlike  be 
terrified  at  the  novelty  of  this  touching  sight.  These 
beasts  have  come  for  the  sole  purpose  of  rendering 
homage  and  not  because  they  wish  to  harm,  nor  are 
they  on  the  other  hand  able  to  do  so."  These  words 
dispelled  the  fears  from  her  anguished  soul.  And  be-  740 
hold,  the  joyful  beasts  went  before  and  shov\'ed  them 
the  direct  way  through  the  desert,  nor  did  they  even 
depart  at  nightfall  but  with  loyal  instinct  joined 
themselves  to  the  herd  of  Saint  Joseph ;  and  unmind- 
ful of  their  innate  ferocity  they  peacefully  partook  of 
the  meager  supply  of  hay.  Among  them  there  was 
such  concord  that  the  erstwhile  timid  lamb  joined 
itself  to  the  fierce  wolf,  and  the  meek  oxen  formed 
companionship  with  the  savage  lion.  And  rightly  so : 
for  the  true  Peace  of  Heaven  with  the  same  harmony 
with  which  It  rules  the  unmeasured  firmament, 
changed  their  nature  and  confiiTned  their  loyalty.  750 

After  a  while  the  Virgin  Mary,  exhausted  by  the  in- 
tense heat  of  the  summer,  rested  in  the  friendly  shade 
of  a  palm-tree.  With  her  clear  eyes  upturned  she  saw 
that  the  tree  was  richly  laden  with  matured  fruit; 
when  she  had  seen  this  her  tongue  formed  words  like 
these :  "I  would  be  delighted  to  eat  of  the  fruit  of  this 
rich  palm,  if  this  were  able  to  be  done." 

To  her  the  old  man  Joseph,  just  in  the  observance  760 
of  the  law,  being  somewhat  vexed,  made  response :  "I 
marvel  Mary,  that  thou  dost  wish  to  speak  thus,  since 
thou  dost  see  that  the  branches  of  the  great  tree  touch 
the  clouds  and  strike  even  the  very  stars  of  the  high- 
est heaven.  But  I  am  with  deep  anxiety  wondering  in 
my  mind  whether  at  least  I  may  not  perchance  find  a 
limpid  spring,  for  we  have  not  even  a  drop  of  water 
in    our    bags."     Thus  spoke  the  venerable  man,  as 


57 


The  Maria 

770     Christus,  corporeis  tectus  fuerat  quia  membris. 
At  puer,  in  gremio  carae  genitricis  amando 
Accumbens,  palmam  gaudens  se  vertit  ad  ipsam, 
Functus  et  imperio  praeclare  quippe  paterno 
Ipsi  continue  dicebat  f route  serena: 
"Arbor,  flecte  tuos  summo  de  vertice  ramos, 
Ut,  quantam  libeat,  de  te  mater  mea  carpat." 
Dixerat,  atque  suis  arbor  fortissima  iussis 
Ante  pedes  Mariae  parens  inflectitur  almae. 
Fructu  cumque  suo  penitus  fuerat  spoliata, 

780     Incurvata  stetit  nee  surgens  alta  petivit, 

Opperit  imperium  Christi  sed  rite  probatum. 
Ipseque  "Te  subito"  dixit  "nunc  erige,  palma, 
Ut  sis  lignorum  post  haec  collega  meorum, 
Quae  paradisyacis  constant  plantata  locellis ; 
Et  radice  tua  deduc  extimplo  secreto 
Undas  fonticuli  fluitantes  gurgite  dulci." 
Quae  citius  dicto  complentur  denique  cuncta. 
At  prolis  comites,  fontem  lustrando  recentem, 
Reddebant  grates  laetato  pectore  dulces 

790     Atque  sitim  limphis  tristem  dempsere  novellis. 
Cumque  profecturi  deserti  per  loca  vasti 
Essent,  ad  palmam  lesus  sic  dixerat  ipsam : 
"De  te  quippe  meo  praecepto,  palmula,  mando, 
Angelus  ut  caelo  veniens  dilapsus  ab  alto 
ToUat  rite  tuo  ramum  de  vertice  summo 
Necnon  hunc  ipsum  plantet  mox  in  paradysum. 
Et  tibi  gloriolam  super  hoc  iam  confero  tantam, 
Ut  post  haec  summi  dicaris  palma  triumphi ; 
Et  quisquis  bello  famose  vicerit  ullo, 

800     De  te  vincenti  dicetur  protinus  illi: 

*Ad  palmam  magni  venisti  namque  triumphi.'  " 


Haec  ubi  dicta  dedit,  dilapsus  sidere  venit 
Angelus,  et  tollens  ramum  divexit  in  altum. 

-58- 


The  Maria 

though  despairing  that  Christ  Who  was  present  could 
do  all  things,  even  though  concealed  in  human  form. 

But  the  Boy,  reclining  on  the  cherished  bosom  of  770 
His  sweet  Mother,  joyfully  turned  to  that  palm  and 
fulfilling  indeed  the  Will  of  His  Father  spoke  to  the 
palm  with  gracious  mien:  "Palm-tree,  bend  low  thy 
top-most  branches,  so  that  My  Mother  may  pluck  from 
thee  as  much  fruit  as  she  wishes."  When  He  had  said 
this,  the  tree  made  strong  by  His  commands  obediently 
bent  low  before  the  august  Virgin.  After  it  had  been 
despoiled  of  its  burden,  it  remained  low-bent,  nor  did 
it  rise  to  seek  the  heights  but  duly  waited  the  approved  780 
command  of  Christ.  Jesus  then  said  to  it:  "Now 
raise  thyself  quickly,  Palm-tree,  that  so  thou  mayest  be 
reckoned  a  companion  to  My  trees  which  have  been 
planted  in  heaven's  fair  garden.  And  from  hidden 
roots  do  thou  now  send  forth  the  sparkling  waters  of 
a  bubbling  spring." 

The  words  were  scarcely  spoken  when  the  command 
was  fulfilled,  and  the  companions  of  the  Babe  rendered 
sweet  thanks  with  a  glad  heart  at  the  sight  of  this 
fount  of  refreshing  coolness,  and  they  quenched  their 
bitter  thirst  in  the  newly-formed  streamlet.  When 
they  were  about  to  continue  their  journey  through 
that  vast  desert  waste,  Jesus  again  addressed  the  790 
palm :  "Concerning  thee,  dear  little  Palm,  by  my  com- 
mand, an  angel  coming  down  from  the  high  heaven 
shall  bear  away  one  of  thy  branches  from  the  top- 
most bough.  This  he  shall  plant  in  the  celestial  para- 
dise, and  I  now  confer  upon  thee  this  great  distinction, 
that  hereafter  thou  shalt  be  called  the  palm  of  victory, 
and  whoever  'having  fought  the  good  fight'  shall  come 
out  victorious  from  the  battle  of  life  shall  be  told  con- 
cerning thee :  'Thou  hast  merited  the  palm  of  a  great  800 
triumph.'  " 

When  Jesus  had  spoken  these  words  an  angel  came 
down  from  heaven,  and  taking  a  branch  bore  it  back 

-59- 


The  Maria 

Quo  viso  cuncti  praesentes  opstupefacti 
In  terram  proni  consternuntur  tremefacti. 
Quos  lesus  subito  solatur,  talia  fando: 
"Non  opus  est  certe  vobis  formidinis  ullae, 
Hunc  quia  transferri  ramum  per  sidera  iussi, 
Ut  mox  deliciae  magno  plantetur  in  horto 
810     Et,  velut  hie  in  deserto  mea  iussa  sequenda 
Implevit,  magno  nosmet  studio  satiando, 
Sic  illis  Sanctis  constat  dulcedo  perennis." 

Talibus  ac  tantis  signis  iam  sedulo  visis, 
Joseph,  virtutem  prolis  tractando  perennem, 
Utitur  his  verbis,  submisso  murmure  f usis : 
"Ecce  calor  nimius  nostros  male  decoquit  artus; 
Nunc,  tibi  si  placeat,  cuius  regnum  iuge  constat, 
Praecipe  per  pelagi  calles  nos  pergere  vasti, 
Urbibus  appositis  quo  certa  quies  data  nobis 
820     Nos  citius  spatium  faciat  percurrere  tantum." 
Cui  dixit  lesus,  divino  numine  clarus: 
"Namque  viam  subito  longam  per  me  breviabo 
Et,  quod  ter  denis  potuit  vix  ante  diebus 
Metiri,  faciam  diei  spatio  repedari." 


His  dictis,  Sotinen  viderunt  ocius  urbem 
Egypti  magnam,  famosis  moenibus  altam. 
Hanc  introgressi  petierunt  limina  templi. 
In  quo  stulta  deos  consuevit  ponere  falsos 
Gens  pagana  suos,  perverso  more  colendos. 
830     Mox  sed  ut  intravit  sancta  cum  prole  Maria, 
Omnia  falsorum  pariter  simulacra  deorum 
In  terram  subito  ceciderunt  denique  prona, 
lam  cognoscentes  regem  venisse  perennem 
Atque  Deum  verum  magna  virtute  deorum. 

Tunc  est  impletum,  fuerat  quod  carmine  dictum 
Olim  percerte  modulantis  tale  prophetae : 
"Ecce  super  levem  Dominus  veniet  cito  nubem, 

-60- 


The  Maria 

with  him.  Those  present,  beholding  these  deeds,  were 
struck  with  wonder  and  in  trembling  awe  fell  upon  the 
ground.  But  Jesus  immediately  dispelled  their  fear 
and  spoke  to  them  in  these  words :  "There  is  indeed 
no  cause  for  anxiety,  for  I  Myself  have  commanded 
the  angel  to  bear  aloft  the  palm-branch,  so  that  it  may 
be  planted  among  the  delights  of  the  great  garden; 
for  as  here  in  the  desert  the  palm  obeyed  my  behests 
and  satisfied  our  hunger  with  great  zeal,  so  too  will  it 
be  a  source  of  unending  delight  to  the  elect."  810 

Joseph,  who  had  with  great  eagerness  observed  all 
these  marvels,  considering  the  great  power  of  the 
Babe,  humbly  addressed  Him  in  low  pleading  tones : 
"Behold  how  this  intense  heat  is  cruelly  scorching  our 
limbs ;  now  if  it  please  Thee,  to  Whom  there  is  eternal 
power,  command  that  through  these  vast  desert  paths 
we  may  proceed  so  that  certain  rest  may  be  given  us 
in  cities  near  at  hand,  and  that  this  rest  may  enable 
us  to  travel  more  speedily  through  this  vast  space." 

Then  Jesus  in  the  glory  of  His  Godhead  said  to  His     820 
foster-father:     "I  will  immediately  of  My  own  Will 
shorten  the  long  journey,  and  a  passage  that  here- 
tofore consumed  the  space  of  thrice  ten  days,  I  will 
make  to  be  covered  in  the  space  of  one  day." 

He  had  hardly  spoken  these  words  when  they  saw 
before  them  the  great  Sotines,  the  Egyptian  city 
famed  for  its  lofty  walls.  Entering  the  city  they 
sought  the  temple  in  which  the  ignorant  pagans  had 
set  up  false  gods,  which  they  were  wont  to  worship 
amid  perverted  rites.  But  scarcely  had  Mary  with  her 
blessed  Babe  crossed  the  threshold  of  that  temple,  830 
when  all  the  images  at  one  and  the  same  instant  fell 
to  the  ground  and  lay  prostrate,  acknowledging  the 
coming  with  great  power  of  the  Eternal  King  and  the 
true  God  of  gods.  Thus  was  fulfilled  what  had  been 
foretold  by  the  prophets :  "Behold  the  Lord  shall  come 
suddenly  on  a  swift  cloud,  before  Whose  Face  it  is 

-61- 


The  Maria 

Pro  cuius  sancta  facie  decet  omnia  nempe 
Egypti  subito  conquassari  simulacra." 

840         Haec  Afrodisio  postquam  fuerant  recitata, 
Urbis  namque  duci  praedictae  valde  potenti, 
Illo  cum  sociis  festinat  pergere  multis. 
Quod  cum  pontifices  templi  sensere  profani, 
Sperabant  ilium  variis  mox  perdere  poenis 
Hos,  qui  damna  diis  fecerunt  talia  stultis. 
Ipse  sed,  in  terra  cernens  simulacra  decora 
Obtutu  prono  passim  volutare  minuta, 
Lumine  caelestis  raptim  succensus  amoris 
Et  fidei  sacrae,  mutato  denique  corde 

850     Substitit  atque  suis  gaudens  dicebat  amicis : 

"Ecce  patenter  adest  Dominus  super  omnia  pollens, 
Quem  fortasse  dii  tacito  cum  murmure  nostri 
lure  Deum  verum  contestantur  fore  solum. 
Restat,  ut  ipsorum  prostrati  more  deorum 
Devota  regem  veneremur  mente  perennem, 
Quae  fecit  regi,  memorantes,  iam  Pharaoni, 
Qui  sua  plus  iusto  sprevit  mandamina  sacra, 
Ne  nosmet  foveam  mortis  detrudat  in  atram." 

Dixerat,  atque  solo  prostratus  corpore  toto 
860     Volvitur  ante  pedes  sanctae  rogitando  Mariae 
Gratiolam  pueri  constanter  voce  fideli, 
Quem  mater  gremio  gaudens  portavit  amico. 

0  laudanda  tuae  virtutis  gloria,  Christe, 
0  miranda  sacrae  semper  mutatio  dextrae. 
Qui  nutu  tacito  potis  es  disponere  cuncta ! 
Quis  volet  ergo  tuae  pietatis  munera  magnae, 
Unice  nate  Dei  summo  similis  genitori, 
Mirari  digne  merita  vel  dicere  laude, 
Qui  nostri  causa  fecisti  tanta  stupenda? 
870     Tu,  sine  principio  natus  de  patre  superno, 

Per  praecepta  patris  complesti  viscera  matris, 
Ex  hac  corpoream  sumens  sub  tempore  f  ormam ; 

-62- 


The  Maria 

fitting  that  all  the  idols  of  Egypt  shall  crumble  and 
lie  prostrate." 

When  these  happenings  were  related  to  the  mighty  840 
Aphrodisius,  the  ruler  of  that  city,  he  hastened  thither 
accompanied  by  a  vast  concourse.  And  when  the 
priests  of  the  pagan  temple  had  heard  this,  they  hoped 
that  the  ruler  would  inflict  punishment  upon  those  who 
had  brought  about  the  destruction  of  their  witless 
gods. 

But  the  ruler,  gazing  upon  the  shattered  fragments 
of  the  one-time  fair  statues  now  lying  face  down  in  the 
dust,  was  suddenly  touched  by  a  divine  ray  of  love 
and  truth,  and  with  a  heart  converted  to  God  he  turned 
joj^ully  to  his  companions,  saying:  "Behold,  indeed 
the  one  true  God,  powerful  above  all  other  gods,  has 
made  Himself  manifest  to  us;  for  indeed  our  own  850 
gods  in  silent  murmurings  profess  that  this  is  the  only 
true  God.  It  remains  therefore  that  we  prostrate  our- 
selves before  Him  in  the  manner  of  our  gods  and  wor- 
ship the  Eternal  King  with  devout  hearts,  remember- 
ing what  He  did  to  Pharaoh,  our  erstwhile  sovereign, 
who  more  than  was  just  despised  the  commands  of  the 
Lord :    lest  He  cast  us  also  into  the  dark  pit  of  death." 

When  he  had  said  this,  he  prostrated  his  entire  body 
upon  the  earth  and  cowered  low  before  the  feet  of     860 
Holy  Mary,  pleading  with  loyal  heart  for  grace  from 
the  Boy  Whom  the  Mother  was  happily  pressing  to  her 
loving  heart. 

0  how  praiseworthy  is  the  grandeur  of  Thy  power, 
0  Christ!  How  wonderful  are  the  changes  of  Thy 
sacred  right  Hand!  Thou  art  able  to  dispose  of  all 
things  by  a  mere  silent  act  of  Thy  Will!  Who  will 
worthily  admire  and  sufficiently  praise  the  gifts  of 
Thy  great  bounty.  Thou  the  only  Son  begotten  in  like- 
ness to  the  Father,  Who  for  our  sake  didst  perform 
such  great  marvels?  Thou,  born  from  the  Father 
before  all  ages,  didst  in  obedience  to  His  Will  take  up  870 
Thine  abode  in  the  womb  of  Thy  Mother  and  didst  take 

-63- 


The  Maria 

Quique  vales  proprio  mundum  concludere  palmo, 
Panniculis  string!  non  raris  haut  respuisti  ; 
Et  qui  stellato  resides  solio  super  aethra, 
Parvo  praesepi  contractus  procubuisti; 
Et,  qui  multigenis  imponis  nomina  stellis 
Ac  pluviae  guttas,  pelagi  quoque  solus  arenas 
Rite  potes  numero  per  te  comprendere  certo, 

880     Ut  fragiles  pueri  patienter  conticuisti, 

Tempore  virgineas  quo  suxisti  pie  mammas. 
Insuper  Herodem  nulla  formidine  regem, 
Sed  sola  certe  fugisti  pro  pietate, 
Quo  carnis  veram  demonstrares  pie  f ormam ; 
Et  mox  absque  mora  fecisti  saxea  corda 
Nam  paganorum  mollescere  non  domitorum 
Et  sentire  tuum  solidum  per  tempora  regnum, 
Quo  te  divinis  moniti  scirent  fore  signis 
Ipsum,  qui  solo  fecisti  saecula  verbo 

890     Et  quern  cunctorum  cecinerunt  carmina  vatum. 
Hinc  genitore  tuo  maneat  per  saecula  cuncta 
Gloria  de  cunctis  et  laus  aeterna  creatis, 
Qui  tibi  dilecto  nescivit  parcere  nato, 
Et  tibi,  Christe,  decus  perpes,  victoria,  virtus, 
Sanguine  qui  mundum  fuso  redimis  periturum, 
Flamine  cum  sacro  saecli  per  tempora  cuncta, 
Gratia  caelestis  per  quem  conceditur  omnis ! 


Qualia  retribuam  factori  munera  nunc  iam 
Pro  cunctis  digne,  mihimet  quae  reddidit  ipse, 
900     Qui  pius  indignam  solita  pietate  famellam 
Me,  licet  exiles,  fecit  persolvere  grates? 
His  super  angelicae  caelorum,  posco,  catervae 
Collaudare  Deum  non  cessant  sedulo  verum ! 


64 


The  Maria 

from  her  a  human  form  in  the  fulness  of  time ;  Thou 
art  able  to  enclose  the  world  in  the  palm  of  Thy  Hand 
but  didst  not  despise  to  be  wrapped  in  swaddling 
clothes  of  little  worth ;  Thou,  Whose  throne  is  above 
the  starry  skies,  didst  become  small  enough  to  lie 
cradled  in  a  tiny  manger ;  Thou  Who  didst  name  the 
myriad  constellations  and  art  able  rightly  to  count  of 
Thyself  the  drops  of  rain  and  the  grains  of  sand  on 
the  seashore,  didst  as  a  helpless  Babe  abide  in  patient 
silence  whilst  Thou  didst  dutifully  take  nourishment 
from  Thy  Virgin-Mother's  breast.  Thou  didst  not  fear 
impious  Herod,  yet  in  obedience  alone  didst  Thou  seek  880 
flight,  that  thus  Thou  mightest  show  Thyself  dutiful 
in  the  form  of  flesh.  And  now  without  delay  Thou 
didst  subdue  the  flinty  hearts  of  these  pagans,  unused 
to  subjection,  and  didst  make  them  experience  Thine 
unshaken  power  throughout  all  times,  in  order  that 
thus  they  might  know  Thee  by  Thy  divine  manifesta- 
tions. Who  didst  make  all  things  by  Thy  word  alone, 
and  Whom  all  the  seers  have  sung  in  their  sacred 
prophecies.  Therefore  to  Thine  Eternal  Father  may 
glory  be  throughout  all  ages  from  all  Thy  creatures,  890 
Who  knew  not  how  to  spare  His  beloved  Son;  and 
likewise  to  Thee,  0  Christ,  be  etenial  honor,  victory, 
and  power.  Who  didst  shed  Thy  Blood  to  redeem  the 
world  on  its  way  to  perdition ;  together  with  the  Holy 
Spirit,  be  glory  throughout  all  ages,  through  Whom 
all  heavenly  gifts  are  granted  to  us! 

What  gifts  shall  I  render  now  to  the  Creator, 
worthy  of  all  the  good  He  hath  bestowed  upon  me, 
Who  graciously  in  His  wonted  goodness  hath  permit- 
ted me,  an  unworthy  servant,  to  render  thanks,  how-  900 
ever  feeble?  For  this,  may  the  angelic  hosts,  I  pray, 
unceasingly  praise  the  Lord. 


65- 


The  Maria 


NOTES  ON  THE  MARIA 

Meter:  in  invocation,  elegiac  couplet;  poem  proper,  leonine  hexa- 
meter, the  clausulae  rhyming  with  homoeoteleuton. 

Title:  fratris  Domini:  the  apostles  were  frequently  called  "brethren" 
even  by  our  Lord  Himself.  See  /o.  7.3,5;  Lc.  8.19-21;  Mt. 
12.50;  28.10.  Compare  also  James  A.  Kleist,  S.  J.,  Memoirs 
of  Saint  Peter  p.  191. 

13.  Unica  Spes  Mundi:    compare  Sedulius,  Carmen  Pascliale  1.60. 
Dominatrix  inclita  caeli:  compare  verse  517. 

14.  Sancta  Parens:  compare  Sedulius,  op.  cit.  2.63;  Verg.,  Aen.  5.80. 
Stella  Maris:  the  hymn  Ave  Maris  Stella  was  ascribed  to 
Venantius  Fortunatus  in  ninth  century  manuscripts.  It  is  now 
definitely  established  that  he  was  not  the  author.  It  was  in  this 
hymn  that  the  expression  was  first  used,  although  Saint  Jerome 
and  Isidore  of  Seville  had  interpreted  the  name  Mary  as  mean- 
ing "Star  of  the  Sea."  It  is  very  likely  that  Hrosvitha  found 
the  expression  in  manuscripts  ascribed  to  Fortunatus.  See 
Guido  Dreves,  S.  J.,  "Der  Hymnus  vom  Meeres  Stern,"  in  Stim- 
men  aus  Maria  Laach  50:  (1896)  558-569;  Otto  J.  Kuhnmuench, 
S.  J.,  Early  Christian  Latin  Poets  414. 

16.       virgo  vetula:  Eve;  compare  Theoph.  451. 

20.  succino:  generally  intransitive;     so  also  here. 

21.  saltim:  that  is,  saltern;  compare  Introduction,  xxii;  also 
"Index  Verborum"  in  Winterfeld,  p.  451. 

22.  particidam  ininimam:  not  necessarily  diminutive.  See  Intro- 
duction, xxi. 

26.  laude:   the  "e"  is  long,  under  the  ictus. 

27.  digne  pro  meritis:  compare  verse  899;  also  Prudentius, 
Apotheosis  705. 

31-32.  The  Beast  of  Balaam,  Num.  12.34a. 

33.  virguncida:  diminutive  for  the  sake  of  affection;  thus,  tender 
virgin. 

34.  Sancto  Flamine:  lit.  a  holy  breath;  The  Holy  Spirit;  com- 
pare also  Asc.  28;  Theoph.  301;  Diomj.  117,  194;  Agn.  319, 
375;  Prim.  592;  Mar.  304,  896. 

35.  sine  sorde  pudoris:  compare  Prim.  399. 

36.  cunctis  dissimilem  meritis:     compare  the  theme  in  verse  185. 
38.       rove  gratiolae:  compare  Gong.  11;    Pelag.  6. 

gratiolae:  diminutive,  homoeoteleuti  causa. 
41.       condampner:    condamner;     with  many  of  the  mediaeval  writers 
Hrosvitha  sometimes  retains  the  parasitic  consonants  and  some- 
times drops  them.     See  Harrington,  Mediaeval  Latin,  xxvi. 

-66- 


The  Maria 

43.  mage:  for  magis;  probably  metri  causa.     Compare  verse  469; 
also  Pelag.  181;  Theoph.  96,  151. 

44.  For  the  theme  compare  Apoc.  14.4;    see  also  Bas.  118;  Paulinus 
of  Nola  31.589; 

purpureum  Agnum:  appropriately — "Crimson  Lamb";  pur- 
pureum,  however,  may  also  mean  beautiful. 

45.  lustris     peractis:       compare     Venantius     Fortunatus,     Pange 
Lingua  Gloriosi,  Proelium  Certaminis  16. 

46.  aetula:     the  diminutive  of  aetas;     not  necessarily  diminutive 
in  sense;     metri  causa. 

59.  terrestri  came:    in  human  form. 

60.  For  the  theme  compare  lo.  10.14;  Lc.  15.5. 

66.       toto  conamine:     with  utmost  effort;   conamen  is  poetical;   not 

found     before     Lucretius.      Compare    Lucr.    6.326;    also    Stat., 

Silvae  3.1.112;  Ovid,  Met.  8.  366;  15.  224. 
68.       pupillis:     orphans;     in    this    sense    compare    also    Theoph.    22; 

for  the  meaning  "eyes"  compare  Pelag.  326.      (Note  a  parallel 

in  our  English  word  "Pupil.") 
70.       particulam:     see  verse  22. 
74.       ipsiu^:   for  suae;     compare  Intr.,  xxi. 
82.       iunxit  proprio  amori:    compare  Gong.  349;  Pelag.  207. 
85,       scilicet:  metri  explendi  causa. 
88.       digni  ponere:  note  dignus  with  the  infinitive. 
90.       di<;tis  affatur  amaris:  compare  Gong.  541;   Verg.,  Aen.  10.591. 
93.       sobolis:  for  subolis;     for  the  theme  compare  verse  158. 
95.       silvas  petivit:     compare  Verg.,  Ae7i.  11.813. 

98.  propriis  magistris:   the  shepherds    of    each    individual    flock; 
compare  verses  233,  242. 

ducendo:  the  last  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa.  Compare 
also  verses  151,  282,  322,  442,  587.  Hrosvitha  frequently  short- 
ens the  ultima  in  the  ablative  form  of  the  gerund,  but  she 
rarely  does  this  with  the  ablative  of  a  real  noun.  See  "Index 
Metricus,"  Winterfeld,  543. 

99.  latitat  .  . .  latebris:  note  the  tautology. 

119.     loethi:    for    lethi    or    leti;     consult    Har.,    xxv.2;    also    Avitu3, 

2.177. 
121.     committens  membra  sepulchro:  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  10.558. 
124.     plumigeris  pennis:  compare  Prud.,  Cath.  3.41.44. 

131.  sedulo:    last   syllable   is   short;   metri  causa;    compare   "Index 
Metricus"  in  Winterfeld,  p.  546. 

132.  mcme:  usually  memet;  emphatic  form  of  me. 
134.     constanti  pectore:  compare  verse  638. 

139.  dum  formaret:   dum  with  the  subj.  has  the  force  of  cum.    Con- 
sult Hoffmann,  Lateinische  Grammatik,  p.  743-744. 

140.  astrigcro:    compare  Asc.  21;    Fortunatus,  Carm.  3.40. 
142.     sub  facie:    beneath  her  gaze;     before  her. 

-67- 


The  Maria 

147.     anrivagis:  compare  Gong.  306;  Verg.,  Georg.  1.406. 

149.  lecto:  not  necessarily  a  couch  for  reclining;  used  also  for 
reading  and  prayer. 

150.  an  incomplete  line;  Strecker  and  others  suggest  a  lacuna  in 
the  following  verse,  but  if  pei-  omncm  be  substituted  for  peror,  I 
see  no  reason  for  a  lacuna.  This  provision  would  disturb 
neither  rhyme  nor  meter.  Compare  also  critical  apparatus, 
Strecker,  p.  8. 

151.  ducendo:   compare  verse  98. 

154.     sero:  compare  sedulo  verse   132.     For  theme   see   Pseudo-Mat- 
thew, Apocryphon  1-5. 
158.     Compare  also  verse  93. 

161.  obprobrium :   compare  verse  41. 

162.  loachim:  indeclinable;  Hrosvitha  declines  only  a  few  of  the 
proper  names.  Compare  verses  163,  215,  394,  709,  744;  compare 
also  Barack,  xlviii. 

164.     quis:  for  quibus;  compare  verses  96,  238,  270,  499.     Verg.,  Aen. 

5.11;  Georg.  1.61.     Also  Introd.  xxl. 
185.     Compare  Sedulius,  Cm-men  Paschale  2.68;  also  Pseudo- Matthew, 

Apocryphon  1-5. 

194.  meo  tecto:  local  abl.  without  preposition;  common  in  late  Latin. 
See  Stolz-Schmalz,  p.  450. 

195.  7ion  dedignere:  non  for  ne  in  a  prohibitive  subjunctive.  See 
Stolz-Schmalz,  p.  591. 

198.  credito:  imperative  with  a  short  ultima,  metri  causa.  Compare 
also  Bos.  164. 

199.  vescier:  old  infinitive  form;  see  also  Intro,  xxi.  For  parallel 
references  to  angels  invited  to  partake  of  a  repast,  compare 
Gen.  18;  Tob.  12;  also  Milton,  Paradise  Lost  5.370-381. 

202.  poncre  satagis  mensis:  ablative  without  in;  compare  verses 
218,  395;  also  Gong.  40;  Agn.  19. 

203.  For  the  theme  compare  Exod.  12.5. 

210.     lucessere:  for  lucescere;  to  become  light;     the  inceptive  form  of 

lucco. 
214.     Adam:  for  its  declension  compare  verse  162. 
217.     virgineum  alvum:  alvus  is  usually  feminine. 
219.     alvo  virgineo:    compare  verses  202,  217. 

222.  gauderet .  . .  retinere:  for  this  use  of  the  infinitive  compare 
Stolz-Schmalz,  p.  581. 

223.  Pnenmatis  Almi:  The  Fostering  Spirit,  the  Holy  Ghost;  com- 
pare verse  34. 

225.     finetcnus:  fine  and  tenns;  as  far  as  the  end;    forever;    perhaps 
a  hapax  legomenon  of  Hrosvitha;     compare  also  Barack,  liii. 
stabilem  orbem:  a  favorite  expression  of  Hrosvitha.     Perhaps 
she  referred   to  the   peaceful   world   after   the   Incarnation   as 

-68- 


The  Maria 

compared  to  the  confused  condition  before  the  coming  of  Christ. 
Compare  verse  375;     Gong.  482;  Theoph.  154. 
236.     turbata  mente:  compare  verse  713. 

251.  hostia:  for  ostia.    Compare  Har.  xxv.4. 

252.  patronum:    for  maritum. 

253.  attonitis  ocellis:  compare  Asc.  123;  Gong.  540;  Theoph.  324. 
265.     For  the  theme  compare  Prud.  Apotheosis  601. 

267.     primi  pontifices:   see  verse  295. 

271.     For  the  theme  compare  Sedulius,  Carmen  Paschale  1.66;   also 

verse  877. 
275.     This  incident  is  not  in  the  original  source;     note  also  Mariam 

with  a  short  antepenult  as  compared  with  the   same  word  in 

verse  282;  metri  causa. 
282.     ablactando:  ablative  with  short  ultima;  metri  causa. 
293.     His  super  accensi:  compare  verses  504,  692;   Verg.,  Aen.  1.29. 

298.  magni  stupendi:  compare  Diony.  13. 

299.  Note  the  shifting  of  the  metrical  accent  in  mains  of  the  third 
and  that  of  the  last  foot. 

308.     Compare  Asc.  1. 
313.     foetu:  for  fetii. 

315.  popello:  with  the  classical  writers,  a  rabble;  thus  Horace,  Ep. 
1.7.65;  with  the  mediaeval  writers  used  in  no  derogatory  sense. 

319.  meum  inimicum:    that  is  Ruben,  who  had  despised  Joachim. 

320.  quin  visitem:  the  manuscript  reading  has  originally  quern 
vistem,  which  is  impossible;  the  corrected  quin  visitem  may 
stand,  despite  the  long  'i'  of  the  antepenult  of  the  verb,  as 
Hrosvitha  elsewhere  scans  the  syllable  short;  compare  Gong. 
497. 

341.     loquela:  conversation;  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  5.642. 

352.  perfecit :  used  here  intransitively;  Strecker  suggests  a  lacuna 
here,  not  so  Barack  and  Schurzfleisch. 

353.  ipsissima:  used  superlatively  for  emphasis. 
357.     divinis  odis:  compare  verse  286. 

364.  Note  the  pagan  allusions;  very  likely  a  result  of  the  revival  of 
the  classics  during  the  reign  of  the  Ottos. 

365.  famosa  puclla:  compare  verses  448,  548,  679,  826;  famosus  in 
classical  Latin  usually  has  an  unfavorable  connotation. 

373.     quo didicisset:    result;    so  that  she  learned.     For  the  use 

of  the  pluperfect  compare  Stolz-Schmalz,  p.  562. 
377.     fama  volitaret:  compare  Gong.  303. 
379.     pauci:  with  the  singular  equals  "small." 

384.  finetenus:  as  in  verse  225. 

385.  corpus  eius:  for  corpus  suum. 

386.  pontifices  potentcs:  compare  verse  491. 

387.  veneratur:  used  here  passively;  compare  Agn.  376;  also  Verg., 
Aen.  5.745. 

-69- 


The  Maria 

394.  Abel:  indeclinable;  compare  verse  162. 

395.  protoplasto :   first  syllable  is  short. 

399.  I  would  suggest  '^<ifortitery  virgo"  in  the  lacuna  of  the  fifth 
foot.  Barack,  Winterfeld,  Schurzfleisch,  and  Gundlach  suggest 
"virgo  <.potenter';> ;"  this  insertion  would  disturb  the  homoeote- 
leuton. 

403.     meque:   et  me. 

411.     Ahiathar:   see  verse  378. 

sub  lege  sacerdos:  a  priest  of  the  law. 

414.     For  the  construction  of  Solomon's  temple  see  3  Reg.  6. 

423.  multo-magisque :  with  placuerunt;  greatly  indeed;  note  also 
the  short  ultima  in  miilto. 

ab  illo :   by  this  act.    Note  the  ablative  of  means  with  a  preposi- 
tion;   or,  in  consequence  of  this  fact. 

424.  more  insolito:  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  7.  357. 
426.     constat:  here  in  the  sense  of  convenit. 

431.  primitus:  in  the  first  place. 

432.  namque:  metri  explendi  causa. 
434.     prae  cunctis:  compare  Asc.  82. 

436.  consistere:  to  live. 

437.  sole  secundo :   on  the  second  day. 
439.     toto  conamine:  compare  verse  66. 

441.  sub  iudice:  according  to  the  command. 

442.  tollendo:   with  short  ultima. 

448.  famosi  templi:   compare  verse  365;     also  Tacitus,  Hist.  5.2. 

449.  quidni:  without  conditional  force;  compare  Horace,  AP.  382; 
also  Asc.  20;  see  Winterfeld,  546. 

449-451.  demandans  .  . .  venisse — sumere:  note  the  infinitive  with 
demando  instead  of  the  usual  ut  and  subjunctive.  Venisse  is 
perhaps  perfect  in  time  with  regard  to  sumere. 

455.     petiisse:   the  perfect  for  the  present  infinitive.     See  Introd.  xxi. 

460.  precibus  fusis:  compare  verses  654,  815. 

461.  dicetur:  for  dicitur. 

465.  His  ita  finitis:  compare  verses  122,  274. 

466.  mandans  procedere:  for  mandans  with  infinitive  compare  verse 
449. 

475.     altithrono:    coined  by  Juvencus;    compare  Kuhnmuench,  S.  J. 
441.10. 
pectore  laeto:  with  the  glad  heart;  note  the  singular. 

478.  The  theme  is  from  the  apocryphon  of  Pseudo-James.  The  in- 
cidents which  relate  the  life  of  Saint  Joseph,  especially  those 
concerning  his  advanced  years  and  the  statement  that  he  was  a 
widower  with  two  sons,  were  a  matter  of  controversy  among  the 
early  Fathers.  It  has  since  been  refuted  by  most  of  the  later 
writers.  Consult  the  Catholic  Encyclopedia,  under  'Apocrypha' 
1:  601-615. 

-70- 


The  Maria 

480.     Note  the  various   scansions  which   Hrosvitha  gives  to  Maria,. 

Compare  also  verse  275.    The  name  is  one  of  the  few  which  she 

inflects. 
489.     absque  mora:     sine  mora;     compare  Pelag.  275,  346. 

492.  sudaverat:  ht.  he  sweated;  he  spent  himself. 

493.  Christo  dicata:  note  the  anachronism. 

500.  coccus  cum  bysso:  coccus  et  byssus;  purple  and  cotton;  linum 
cum  vellere  Serum:  linum  Serum  et  vellus;  linen  and  silk  from 
China.  A  noun  and  C2im  with  the  abl.  often  equals  two  nouns 
joined  in  the  same  case  with  et.  Compare  Ovid,  Met.  3.92; 
also  the  note  in  Knapp,  Vergil's  Aeneid  with  Ovid,  502.  For  the 
theme  compare  Exod.  28.4;  Paulinus  of  Beziers,  Epigramma 
de  Suae  Aetatis  Moribus  61,  in  Kuhnmuench,  S.  J.,  289. 

504.     his  super  accensae:   compare  verse  293. 

506.     constat:    as  in  verse  426. 

508.     iunior:   first  syllable  is  short. 

512.  astrigera  ab  aula:  compare  verses  521,  794,  802. 

513.  For  the  theme  compare  verse  736;  also  Asc.  77. 
523.  oraculum  vatum:  compare  verses  578,  645,  890. 
525.     satis:    here  with  antiquiorum;   more  ancient. 

530.  paranimphi:  for  paranymphi;  lit.  a  friend  of  the  groom; 
paranympha,  the  brides-maid.  Also  intemuncius,  an  inter- 
mediary. Here  appropriately  the  angel  who  was  to  reveal  to 
Saint  Joseph  the  mystery  of  the  Virgin-Birth,  thus  vindicating 
our  Blessed  Mother.  Consult  Du  Cange  under  paranymphus, 
also  Fortunatus,  Carm.  7.5.305. 

533.  cordetenus:  corde  and  tenus:  as  far  as  the  heart;  to  the  heart. 
Compare  Diony.  214;  also  Introd.  xxi. 

541.     fore:  esse;  see  Introd.  xxi  . 

543.  stabilem  orbem:  compare  Pelag.  224;  also  verse  225  for  another 
sense. 

546.     perrexerat:   with  perfect  force. 

553.  contine  . . .  iumento :  note  the  short  ultima  in  contine,  and  the 
short  first  syllable  of  iumento. 

555.     iuvenem  herilem:  a  youth  from  the  Lord. 

560.     ludeorum:  for  ludaeorum:  compare  Theoph.  21;  Gong.  83. 

564.     Compare  the  scansion  of  Marram,  verse  480. 

566.    iumento:  compare  verse  553. 

574.  libramine:  from  libramen,  a  balance.  Medio  libramine:  mid- 
night. 

575.  virgincula:  here  a  diminutive  used  with  a  sense  of  affection. 
Thus,  tender  Virgin.     See  Introd.  xxi. 

576.  saeclis:  for  saeculii<;  for  this  syncope  compare  Har.  xxvi.5. 
580.     caelicolis:  the  inhabitants  of  heaven;   compare  Verg.,  Aen.  2. 

641,  6.787;  also  B(Ui.  117;  Agn.  640;  Asc.  85;  Gest.  365. 
584.     de  sidera  missum:  compare  verse  537. 

-71- 


The  Maria 

585-587.     For  the  theme  compare  Lc.  2.7;    note  also  the  short  ultima 
of  volvendo. 

589.  mulieres:   with  long  penult. 

590.  fuerant  de  nomine  dictae:    compare  Theoph.  5. 

595.     quid  sibi  vult:    What  does  that  mean?    Compare  Cic,  De  Fin. 
2.101;  Verr.  2.150;  Ter.,  Eun.  559;  And.  375. 

599.  iiire:  ius-iuris;     a  juice;  or  iure,  "rightfully,  duly." 

600.  For  theme  compare  Pseudo-Matthew  1-5. 

612.     Compare  the  Parable   of   the   Pliarisee   and   the   Publican,   Lc. 

18.10-14. 
614.     celsithroni:    compare   Pelag.   374;    Agn.   319;    Prim.   559;    also 

Introd.  xxiii. 
618.     pauperibus  lectis:   compare  verses  544,  635,  730. 
635.     For  the  theme  consult  Mt.  2.1-12. 
637.     famosam  Salem:    that  is,  Jerusalem;  compare  verse  448;  also 

Tac,  Hist.  5.2. 

644.  Bethleis   in   horis:    compare   verse   694;    also    Sedul.,    Carmen 
Paschale  2.73. 

645.  Compare  verses  523,  890. 

653.     Note  the  irregularity  in  the  quantity  of  the  second  syllable  of 

vestigiis. 
657.     For  the  theme  compare  Mt.  2.12;    also  Sedul.  2.102. 
659.     Herod  had  put  to  death  Aristobolus,  the  brother  of  his  Macca- 

bean   wife,   Mariamne.      The   mother    of    Aristobolus    and    of 

Mariamne  reported  the  affair  to  Antony,  who  was  at  that  time 

ruling  Rome.     Herod  was  summoned  to  account  for  the  murder 

of  this   official.      See    Flavins   Josephus,   Antiquitates  ludaicae 

15.3.     Friedrich  Hebbel  has  dramatized    these    events    in    his 

Herodes  und  Mariamne. 

His  ita  digestis:  compare  Gong.  419;  Pelag.  61. 
664.     reus  maiestatis  herilis:  that  is,  crimen  maiestatis:  "treason." 
675-680.     For  the  theme  compare  Lc.  2.28-38. 
678.     ex  ipso  iiisto  Simeone:     by  that  same  just  man;     ex  for  ab; 

frequent  among  mediaeval  writers;    compare  Har.,  xxvii.3.D; 

for  the  theme  see  Lc.  2.28-38. 
682.     mansurnis  repletis:    when  the   years  were  completed;       man- 

sunius:  a  year;  consult  "Index  Verborum,"  Winterfeld,  p.  377; 

also  Prim.  3^;  Sap.  3.9;  Pafn.  9.1;  this  expression  is  perhaps 

a  hapax  legomenon  of  Hrosvitha. 
692.     His   super  accensis:     compare  verse   293;     for   the   theme   see 

Mt.  2.16. 
694.     Bethleis  oris:     the  confines  of  Bethlehem;     compare  verse  644. 
701.     Egipti:    compare  spelling  in  verses  696,  826,  839. 
709.     pueri  loseph:  see  note  on  verse  478;     compare  also  verse  162. 
713.     turbata  mente:  here  of  beasts;    in  verse  236  of  men.    Lucretius 

speaks  of  the  mens  of  beasts.    Compare  Lucret.  3.299. 

-72- 


The  Matia 

717.     sequier:    see  note  on  verse  199. 

719.     fragilis  pro  consuetudine  camis:  MU  26.41. 

735.     fertur  dicere:  for  fertur  dixisse. 

741.     belvae:   usually  beluae, 

745.     oblita  rabie:  oblitus  used  passively. 

748-749.     ut  iunxere  . .  .  ut  commansere :  ut  with  the  indicative  may  be 

used  to  express  result.     For  the  theme  compare  Isaias  65.25. 
765.     praecogito:    with  short  antepenult. 
768.     loquebatur:    with  short  antepenult. 
775.     "Arbor,   flecte    ramos" :    Fortunatus,    Pange,    Lingua,    Gloriosi, 

Proelium  Certaminis  25. 

784.  constant:   lit.  to  stand  together;     compare  verses  540,  812,  for 
another  sense. 

785.  extimplo:   with  short  ultima. 

789.     laetato  pectore:  laetor  is  here  used   passively;   compare   verse 

475. 
794.     dilapsus:    usually  delapsus;    compare  verse  512. 
795-799.     For  the  theme  consult  Ps.  91.13-14. 
807.     ullae:  for  ullius;  obsolete  genitive;  used  perhaps  homoeoteleuti 

causa. 
813.    sedulo:   compare  verse  131. 
815.     utitur  his  verbis:  compare  Prim.  133. 
824.     metiri:  used  here  passively. 

diei:  the  penult  is  short. 
831.     For  the  theme  compare  Alcuin,  Carm.  1.162. 
838.     Thus  Isaias  19.1.     "Behold  the  Lord  will  ascend  upon  a  swift 

cloud  and  will  enter  Egypt,  and  the  idols  of  Egypt  shall  be 

moved  at  His  presence  and  the  heart  of  Egypt  shall  melt  in 

the  midst  thereof." 
855-858.     For  the  theme  compare  Exod.  5.1,2. 

859.  prostratus  solo:    ablative  of  place  'where'  without  a  preposition; 
see  note  on  verse  202. 

860.  rogitando:  gerund  in  the  ablative  instead  of  the  present  par- 
ticiple;    note  also  the  short  ultima;     consult  Har.,  xxvii.  E.4.d. 

862.     gremio  arnica:  compare  verses  711,  771. 

864.     mutatio   sacrae   dextrae :     compare    Ps.    76.11;      compare    also 

The  Imitation  of  Christ  Bk.  3.  30. 
877.     qui  multigensis  imponis  nomine  stellis:  Ps.  146.4. 
885.     absque  mora:  compare  verse  489;  Gong.  511;  Pelag.  274. 
891.     genitore:  for  genitori. 
900-901.     For  the  theme  compare  Ps.  115.12. 


-73 


DE  ASCENSION  E  DOMINI.    HANG  NARRATION  EM 

lOHANNES  E  PI  SCOPUS  A  GRAECO  IN  LATINUM 

TRANSTULIT. 

Postquam  corporeo  Christus  velamine  tectus 
Temporis  implevit  spatium  sacri  venerandum, 
Quod  cum  terrigenis  mansit  dignanter  homullis, 
Qui  solus  maculis  potuit  sine  vivere  cunctis, 
Ut  per  se  mundo  demonstraret  redimendo 
Gaudia  perpetuae  quondam  male  perdita  vitae, 
Postque  triumphalem  sanctamque,  piam  quoque,  mortem, 
Quam  nostri  causa  patienter  pertulit  ergo, 
Dum  victor  magno  fregit  luctamine  tela 

10       Humani  generis  saevissima  fortiter  hostis. 

Sanguinis  et  pretium  proprii  gratis  dedit  amplum, 

Pro  nobis  animam  deponens  in  cruce  caram, 

Necnon  gloriola  surgentis  rite  peracta 

Atque  quater  denis  diei  spatiis  replicatis, 

In  quis  discipulis  apparens  sedulo  caris. 

Esse  sua  nostram  monstrat  cum  morte  peremptam 

Nee  mortis  vinclis  se  posse  tenerier  artis, 

Qui  solus  culpae  fuerat  sine  sordibus  Adae, 

Postremo  caris  isdem  monstratur  amicis, 

20       Montis  oliviferi  praecelso  vertice  quidni 

Astans,  astrigeram  mox  ascensurus  ad  aulam, 
Affaturque  suos  cum  tali  voce  ministros : 
"Ut  pater  in  mundum  me  promisit  sibi  carum. 
Sic  ego  mitto  meos  dilectos  vosmet  amicos. 
At  vos,  in  gentes  citius  cunctas  abeuntes, 
Illas  perpetuae  vitae  mandata  docete, 
Credentes  sacra  purgantes  ocius  unda 
In  patris  et  nati  pariter  quoque  flaminis  almi 
Nomine,  quo  veteris  deponant  crimina  sordis; 

30       Et  virtute  mea  varios  depellite  morbos, 
Necnon  imperio  praedones  cogite  vestro 
Saevos,  obsessum  linquant  ut  pectoris  antrum, 
Illis  praedulcem  servantes  mentis  amorem, 
Laedere  vos  odiis  qui  temptant  semper  amaris 

-74- 


THE  ASCENSION  OF  OUR  LORD.     (This  narrative  John,  the 
Bishop,  translated  from  Greek  into  Latin.) 

After  Christ,  veiled  in  human  form,  had  fulfilled  the 
venerable  time  of  His  sacred  sojourn,  during  which  He 
graciously  abode  among  poor  mortals,  He  Who  alone 
was  able  to  live  without  all  sins,  in  order  that 
He  Himself,  for  the  redemption  of  the  world,  might 
make  known  the  joys  of  eternal  life  which  had  been 
aforetime  unhappily  lost,  after  a  triumphant,  sacred, 
and  holy  death,  which  He  patiently  endured  for  our 
salvation,  as  Victor  in  a  fierce  conflict,  bravely 
broke  the  dire  weapons  of  the  enemy  of  humankind. 
Freely  giving  His  Blood  as  all-sufficient  ransom  and  10 
laying  down  His  precious  life  upon  the  cross,  He  duly 
passed  through  the  glory  of  His  resurrection,  and 
spent  four  times  ten  days,  during  which,  appearing 
with  great  care  to  His  dear  disciples.  He  proved  that 
by  His  death  our  death  was  destroyed  and  that  He 
could  not  be  held  by  the  tight  fetters  of  death.  He  Who 
alone  was  without  the  stain  of  Adam's  sin.  Finally 
He  showed  Himself  to  His  beloved  friends  and  stand- 
ing before  them  on  the  high  summit  of  the  olive-bear-  20 
ing  mount,  when  He  was  about  to  ascend  into  the 
starry  heaven.  He  spoke  to  His  disciples  these  words : 
"As  the  Father  has  sent  Me  forth,  His  dearly  beloved 
Son,  into  the  world,  so  do  I  also  send  you,  my  cher- 
ished friends.  But  you,  going  speedily  to  all  nations, 
teach  them  the  commandments  of  eternal  life,  purify- 
ing forthwith  with  the  sacred  water  those  who  believe 
in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  likewise  of  the  Son, 
and  also  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  thus  they  may  put  off 
the  stains  of  ancient  guilt;  and  do  ye  by  My  power 
drive  away  various  diseases  and  also  compel  by  your  30 
authority  the  savage  fiends  to  leave  the  cavern  of  the 
breast  which  they  have  invaded;  preserve  ever  the 
sweetest  charity  toward  such  as  would  ever  injure  you 

-75- 


The  Ascensio 

Ex  hos  percerte  possunt  praenoscere  cunctae 
Gentes,  discipulos  vos  esse  satis  mihi  caros, 
Si  colitis  vestros  puris  animis  inimicos. 
Finetenus  memores  persistite  scilicet  omnes, 
Quae  vestri  causa  passus  fuerim  sine  culpa. 

40       Nonne  meam  faciem  Cherubin  non  cernere  talem 
Possunt  in  regno,  qualis  nitet  ergo,  paterno? 
ludaei  spurcis  hanc  sed  petiere  salivis 
Maxillisque  meis  alapas  tribuere  malignas 
Atque  manus  clavis  ligno  fixere  cruentis, 
De  limo  pulchrum  quis  plasmavi  protoplastum, 
Cum  quibus  et  caelos  extendi  denique  celsos, 
(Nam  si  respicio  terram,  pavitat  tremefacta, 
Nee  mis  terroris  potis  est  vim  ferre  potentis)  ; 
Et  praecedentes,  acriter  caput  atque  moventes, 

50       Me  male  ludaei  deridebant  scelerosi. 

Haec  cum  dampnandis  paterer  patienter  ab  illis, 
Ipsos  vindicta  volui  non  perdere  iusta, 
Sed,  crucis  in  ligno  mortem  gratis  patiendo, 
Oravi  patrem  clementius  omnipotentem 
Illis  continuo  dimittere  crimina  tanta, 
Suadens  exemplo  tali,  quae  sunt  facienda, 
Ut  mea  caelestis  fieret  doctrina  fidelis 
Et  ne  quis  fictis  auderet  dicere  verbis: 
*Ecce,  quod  ipse  pati  respuit,  nos  ferre  suasit, 

60       Et,  quod  non  fecit,  faciendos  nos  fore  dixit.' 
Sponte  prior  mortis  subii  discrimina  tristis, 
Ceu  pastor  verus,  cordis  bonitate  fidelis. 
Pro  propriis  animam  ponens  ovibus  pie  caram; 
Necnon  complevi  multum  pietate  fideli 
Omnia,  quae  vates  de  me  dixere  priores. 
At  nunc  ascendo,  cinctus  virtute  paterna. 
Ad  patrem  victor  summum  super  aethra  locatum. 
Sed  non  turbari  cordis  rogitabo  fidelis 
Vestri  secretum,  quia  non  vos  forte  relinquam 


-76 


The  Ascensio 

in  bitter  hatred.  By  this  all  people  may  know  that 
you  are  My  very  dear  disciples,  if  you  love  your  ene- 
mies with  a  sincere  heart.  Unendingly,  bear  ever  in 
your  memories,  all  that  I,  though  innocent,  have  suf- 
fered for  your  sakes. 

"Are  not  the  Cherubim  unable  to  gaze  upon  the  40 
splendor  of  My  countenance  in  the  kingdom  of  My  Fa- 
ther? Yet  this  same  countenance  did  the  Jews  assail 
with  foul  spittle;  and  My  cheeks  they  buffeted  with 
wicked  blows;  My  hands  they  fastened  with  cruel 
nails  to  the  cross — those  hands  which  fashioned  the 
first  man  in  all  his  beauty  from  the  slime  of  the  earth, 
and  with  which  I  spread  out  the  high  heavens.  When 
I  look  upon  the  earth,  it  trembles  in  awe,  nor  is  it  able 
to  bear  the  force  of  My  great  wrath ;  yet  they,  pass- 
ing before  My  cross,  disdainfully  wagged  their  heads, 
and  in  their  wickedness  they  reviled  Me  utterly.  50 

"After  patiently  enduring  all  these  insults  from 
these  reprobates,  I  yet  was  unwilling  to  destroy  them 
according  to  just  vengeance,  but  while  suffering  inno- 
cently upon  the  wood  of  the  cross,  I  begged  the  omni- 
potent Father  in  His  clemency  forthwith  to  pardon 
them  this  great  crime,  urging  by  example  what  must 
be  done  so  that  My  heavenly  doctrine  might  be  trust- 
worthy, and  that  no  one  might  dare  say  in  dissembling 
words:  'Behold,  what  He  Himself  refuses  to  suffer, 
that  He  urges  us  to  endure ;  and  that  which  He  Him- 
self has  not  done,  He  says  that  we  must  do.'  Freely 
was  I  the  first  to  submit  Myself  to  the  judgments  of 
a  cruel  death,  like  to  the  true  Shepherd,  in  the  good-  60 
ness  of  a  loyal  heart,  lovingly  laying  down  My  pre- 
cious life  for  Mine  own  sheep;  thus  have  I  fulfilled 
completely  and  with  loving  fidelity  all  those  things 
which  the  prophets  of  old  foretold  concerning  Me.  But 
now  I  ascend  clothed  in  the  might  of  My  Father,  and 
as  Conqueror  I  rise  to  Him  enthroned  above  the  high 
heaven.  But  I  beseech  you,  that  you  do  not  let  your 
loyal  hearts  be  disturbed  within  you,  because  I  will 

-77- 


The  Ascensio 

70       Ceu  desolates  in  mundo  namque  pupillos : 
Sacri  gratiolam  vobis  sed  flaminis  almam 
Emittam  citiiis,  quae  vos  verum  docet  intus ; 
Insuper  ipse  dies  vobiscum  scilicet  omnes 
Finetenus  maneo  mundi  per  tempora  cimcta." 

Haec  iibi  dicta  dedit,  conversus  denique  dixit 
Ad  matrem  propriam  mansueta  voce  Mariam : 
"Nee  contristeris,  rogito,  virguncula  casta, 
Cum  me  praecelsos  videas  ascendere  caelos, 
Te  quia  praeclaram  mundi  non  linquo  lucernam 

80       Atque  meum  sanctum  migrans  non  desero  templum 
Nee  incorruptam  vitae  dimitto  coronam, 
Inveni  solam  prae  cunctis  te  quia  castam 
Condignamque  meum  corpus  generasse  sacratum 
Certe  de  mundo  cum  te  discedere  mando, 
Ad  te  caelicolas  non  solum  mitto  catervas, 
Ipse  sed  adveniens  animam  sumam  benedictam 
Multum  sole  quidem  rutilanti  splendidiorem, 
Necnon  angelicis  deductam  suaviter  hymnis 
Ocius  astrigeram  ponam  veneranter  in  aulam. 

90       At  nunc  lohannem  tecum  remanere  fidelem 
Impero,  qui  gemmis  fulget  bene  virginitatis, 
Ut  tua  vita  magis  praefulgeat  inclyta,  castis 
Saepius  obsequiis  circumdata  virginitatis." 

Ilicet  angelicus  dicentem  talia  coetus 
Ipsum  dulcisonis  laudans  circumdedit  hymnis, 
Et  mons  contegitur  subito  cum  nube  sereno. 
Conveniunt  illic  veterum  cunei  quoque  vatum, 
Inter  quos  medius  David  rex  psallere  doctus 
Cantans  in  cytharis  hortatur  talibus  orsis 
100     Natum  caelestis  solium  petiisse  parentis: 
"Exaltare  super  caelos,  fortis  Deus,  altos, 
Atque  super  totam  mundi  tua  gloria  terram." 
Scilicet  angelicis  suadens  ait  ista  catervis : 
"Exaltate  Deum  modulato  carmine  nostrum, 


78 


The  Ascensio 

not  leave  you  behind  in  this  world  like  desolate 
orphans :  but  I  shall  speedily  send  the  fostering  grace  70 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  will  teach  you  the  truth  in 
your  hearts ;  furthermore,  I  Myself  remain  with  you 
all  days,  through  every  age  of  time,  even  to  the  end  of 
the  world." 

When  He  had  spoken  these  words.  He  turned  to  His 
own  Mother  Mary  and  said  to  her  tenderly :  "Do  not 
grieve,  I  pray  thee,  chaste  Virgin,  when  thou  shalt  see 
Me  ascend  into  the  high  heaven,  for  I  am  not  for- 
saking thee,  illustrious  light  of  the  world ;  and  though 
departing,  I  am  not  deserting  My  sacred  temple,  nor  80 
am  I  relinquishing  an  incorruptible  crown  of  life ;  for 
thee  alone  I  have  found  chaste  among  all  mortals  and 
worthy  to  bring  forth  My  sacred  Body.  When  I  shall 
summon  thee  to  depart  from  this  life,  I  will  send  not 
only  a  celestial  host  to  thee,  but  I  Myself  will  come 
and  will  receive  thy  blessed  soul,  much  more  resplen- 
dent than  the  glowing  sun,  and  I  will  have  it  sweetly 
escorted  amid  the  song  of  angels  and  will  speedily 
place  it  reverently  in  the  court  of  the  high  heavens. 
But  now  I  command  the  faithful  John  to  remain  with 
thee,  he  who  shines  forth  with  the  beauty  of  virginity,  90 
so  that  thy  noble  life  may  shine  yet  more  illustriously, 
surrounded  by  the  frequent  homage  of  chaste  vir- 
ginity." 

Forthwith  a  throng  of  angels  surrounded  the  Savior 
as  He  spoke  these  words,  praising  Him  amid  sweetly 
sounding  hymns,  and  suddenly  the  mount  was  covered 
with  a  bright  cloud.  There  came  also  in  troops  the  an- 
cient prophets,  in  whose  midst  was  King  David,  skilled 
in  song,  amid  the  joyful  strains  of  the  lyre  chanting 
these  words,  as  he  exhorted  the  Son  of  the  Most  High 
to  seek  His  heavenly  Throne :  "Lift  Thyself,  0  power-  100 
ful  God,  above  the  high  heavens,  and  let  Thy  glory 
be  lifted  above  the  whole  expanse  of  the  earth."  En- 
couraging the  angelic  hosts  the  prophet  continued: 
"Exalt  our  God  with  a  sweet  song,  glorifying  Him 

-79- 


The  Ascensio 

Orantes  in  monte  suo  crebra  prece  sancto, 

Iste  Deus  Dominus  noster  constat  quia  sanctus." 

Et  Christus  lesus  vultu  ridente  reversus 
Discipulis  iterum  verbis  dicebat  amicis: 
"Pax  vobis,  fratres,  semper  mihi  rite  fideles 

110     Velle  meum  qui  fecistis  necnon  faciatis; 

Ecce  meam  stabilem  vobis  do  denique  pacem, 
Ac  vobis  ipsam  pacem  dimitto  perennem." 
Haec  ait,  et  citius,  propria  virtute  levatus, 
Ascendit  diri  victor  super  aethera  loeti, 
Obsequio  nubis  circumsaeptus  rutilantis. 
Quern  sursum  fixis  cum  respexisset  ocellis 
Plebs  doctrix  fidei  claustris  caeli  patefactis 
Pergentem  sursum,  cunctis  famulantibus  astris, 
Mox  duo  nempe  viri,  stellato  cardine  lapsi, 

120     Astiterant  illis,  induti  vestibus  albis. 

Qui  satis  angelicis  dixerunt  talia  verbis: 
"Dicite,  posco,  viri,  cur  suspicitis,  Galilaei, 
Vultibus  attonitis  stantes  oculisque  supinis? 
Hie  certe  lesus,  vobis  mirantibus  unus 
Assumptus  caelos  qui  transcendit  super  altos, 
Hac  veniet  iudex  forma,  qua  pergit  ad  aethra." 


Tunc  David,  Christum  cernens  super  aethra  levatum, 
Commovit  cytharam  divina  laude  repletam, 
Haec  et  laetitia  <psallebat>  congrue  magna: 
130     "Ascendit  Deus  in  iubilo  magnus  super  astra 
Necnon  in  tubae  Dominus  clangore  sacratae." 

Post  haec  intonuit  solio  vox  patris  ab  alto, 
Dicens  ad  proprium  divino  famine  natum : 
"Tu  mens  es  carus  percerte  filius  unus, 
Semper  iure  mihi  qui  multum  complacuisti, 
Tu  sine  principio  verbum  patris  quoque  varum, 
Et  mea  de  caelo  solus  sapientia  vera. 
At  nunc  in  dextra  victor  requiesce  paterna 


80 


The  Ascensio 

with  frequent  prayer  on  His  sacred  mountain ;  for  He 
is  the  Lord,  our  God,  most  holy." 

Then  Christ  Jesus,  turning  again  with  smiling 
countenance  to  His  disciples,  addressed  them  in  these 
words :  "Peace  be  to  you.  My  brethren,  who  have  ever 
duly  done  My  will  with  loyal  hearts,  and  may  you  ever 
do  so ;  behold,  I  now  give  to  you  my  lasting  peace,  and  110 
that  peace  I  vouchsafe  you,  that  endureth  forever." 
When  He  had  said  this,  He  suddenly  rose  by  His  own 
power,  and  as  Victor  over  dread  death  He  ascended 
above  the  heavens  enwrapped  in  the  homage  of  a  bril- 
liant cloud.  While  with  eyes  fixed  on  high  the  faithful 
throng  had  seen  Him  ascend  through  the  open  portals 
of  heaven,  in  the  midst  of  all  the  subservient  stars, 
there  suddenly  stood  near  them  two  men,  come  down 
from  the  starry  heavens  and  clad  in  white  robes; 
these  spoke  to  them  in  words  truly  angelic :  "Tell  us, 
we  pray  you,  men  of  Galilee,  why  do  you  stand  here  120 
gazing  in  astonishment  with  your  faces  and  eyes  fixed 
upwards?  This  same  Jesus,  Who  alone  before  your 
wondering  gaze  has  raised  Himself  up  and  has  ascend- 
ed into  heaven,  will  assuredly  come  as  Judge  again  in 
the  form  in  which  He  now  rises  above  the  skies." 

Then  David,  beholding  Christ  raising  Himself 
above  the  clouds,  struck  his  harp,  making  it  resound 
with  divine  praise,  and  in  a  fitting  manner  he  burst 
forth  into  a  canticle  of  joy :  "The  great  God  and  130 
Lord  is  ascended  in  jubilee  above  the  stars,  amidst  the 
sound  of  the  sacred  trumpet." 

After  this  had  happened,  there  thundered  from  the 
most  high  throne  the  voice  of  the  Father  speaking  to 
His  Son  with  divine  utlei-ance:  "Thou  art  indeed  My 
only  beloved  Son  in  Whom  I  have  ever  rightly  been 
well  pleased;  Thou  art  from  all  eternity  the  true  Word 
of  the  Father  and  art  alone  My  true  Wisdom  from  on 
high.  But  now,  repose  as  Victor  at  the  right  Hand 
of  Thy  Father  and  rejoice  until  I  shall  make  all  Thine 

-81- 


The  Ascensio 

Gaudens,  usque  tuos  ponam  cunctos  inimicos 
140     Sanctorum  per  saecla  pedum  tibi  rite  scabellum.' 

Postquam  naturam  iam  de  busto  redivivam 
Humanam  solio  Christus  patris  intulit  alto, 
Omnes  angelicae  submissa  voce  catervae 
Laudabant  ipsum,  qui  regnaturus  in  aevum 
Mortem  devicit  moriens  mundumque  redemit, 
Ut  regnare  suos  faceret  per  saecula  servos. 


Haec  quicumque  legat,  miseranti  pectore  dicat: 
"Rex  pie,  Hrosvithae  parcens  miserere  misellae 
Et  fac  divinis  persistere  caelitus  odis 
Hanc,  quae  laudando  cecinit  tua  facta  stupenda.' 


82 


The  Ascensio 

enemies,  as  they  deserve,  the  foot-stool  of  thy  blessed 
Feet  for  ever."  140 

After  Christ  had  taken  on  high  to  the  throne  of  His 
Father  His  human  Body  again  restored  from  the 
grave,  all  the  angelic  hosts,  in  submissive  tones,  gave 
praise  to  Him,  Wlio,  destined  to  reign  throughout 
eternal  ages,  by  His  death  conquered  death  and  re- 
deemed the  world,  to  bring  it  to  pass  that  His  servants 
might  reign  for  all  eternity. 


May  he,  whoever  reads  these  lines,  say  with  a  pity- 
ing heart:  "Gentle  King,  have  mercy  on  poor  Hros- 
vitha  and  spare  her,  and  grant  that  she  may  with 
grace  from  heaven  continue  to  sing  Thy  divine  praises, 
who  in  verse  has  set  forth  Thy  marvels." 


83 


The  Ascensio 


NOTES  ON  THE  ASCENSIO 

Like  the  Maria,  the  Ascensio  narrates  events  which  are  taken  from 
the  gospels,  canonical  and  apocryphal.  Hrosvitha  bases  the  nar- 
rative on  an  account  translated  from  the  Greek  by  John,  the  Bishop. 
(The  identity  of  this  bishop  has  not  been  established.)  In  one  hun- 
dred forty-six  hexameters  she  pictures  vividly  the  conversation  of 
Jesus  on  Mt.  Olivet  with  His  Blessed  Mother  and  His  disciples. 

The  poem  is  simple  and  dignified  and  gives  proof  of  considerable 
power  of  expression  on  the  part  of  the  nun.  Hrosvitha  adheres 
faithfully  to  her  original,  although  the  choirs  of  angels  and  the 
appearance  of  David,  the  psalmist,  are  incidents  of  her  own  creation. 
The  author  closes  her  poem  with  an  invocation  to  the  risen  King, 
pleading  that  He  may  have  mercy  on  the  'suppliant  Hrosvitha'  and 
grant  her  to  persevere  in  'holy  song  on  things  divine.' 
1.         corporeo  velamine  tectum:  veiled  in  human  flesh; 

velamen:  a  veil;   compare  for  various  meanings:      Mar.   308; 

Theoph.  302;  Bas.  31;  Agn.  10;  Prim.  96,  322;  Abr.  7.2;  Gest. 

355;    Sedul.,   Carm.  Pasch.   3.293;    Dracont.,   De   Laudibus  Dei 

1.393. 
4.        solus:     the  dogma  of  Mary's  perfect  sinlessness  had  not  yet 

been   promulgated,   though   the   truth   was,    of   course,   known. 

Compare   the   Savior's   words:      "inveni   te  solam   castam   prae 

cunctis,"  verse  82,     Solus  may  mean  also  'of  Himself,  by  His 

own  power.'   So  solus  in  verse  18. 
12.       deponens  animam  caram:     compare  verse  63. 
14.       For  the  theme,  compare  Ac.  1.3-15. 

17.  tenerier:  the  obsolete  form  of  the  infinitive  passive;  compare 
note  to  Mar.  199. 

18.  Adae:  the  gen.  of  Adam;  see  note  to  Mar.  162. 

20.  quidni:  lit.,  'why  not';  probably  metri  explendi  causa.  The 
theme  is  from  the  Ac.  1.12. 

21.  astrigcram  ad  aidam:  as  in  Mar.  140. 
23.       Compare  lo.  20.21. 

25.       Compare  Mt.  28.19. 

27.  sacra  unda:  the  sacred  water,  that  is.  Baptism.  Hrosvitha 
seems  especially  fond  of  this  theme;  note  its  recurrence:  Gong. 
35;  Pelag.  20,  244;  Theoph.  6,  113,  287,  335;  Bas.  58;  Diony. 
36,  202;  Agn.  33,  135;  Prim.  29. 

28.  jlaminis  almi:  compare  Mar.  34. 
30.  For  the  theme,  compare  Mt.  10.8. 
33.       Compare  Mt.  5.44;  lo.  13.34. 

-84- 


The  Ascensio 

38.      finetenns:  see  note  to  Mar.  225.     The  theme  is  from  Paul,  ad 

Cor.  1.11.24. 
40.       Compare  the  Apoc.  1.16, 
42.       Compare  Mt.  26.67;  Prud.,  Apoth.  527. 

44.  Compare  lo.  20.25. 

45.  Compare  lo.  1.3;  Gen.  2.7;  Fs.  101.28. 
protoplastum :  note  the  short  first  syllable. 

46.  cum  quibus:  that  is,  manihns;  note  the  prep,  with  abl.  of  means. 

47.  The  theme  is  from  the  Ps.  103.32. 

48.  mis:  for  m,ei;  compare  Intro,  xxi. 

49.  For  the  theme,  compare  Mt.  27.39;  Ps.  21.8. 
51.       dampnandis :   see  note  to  Mar.  41. 

53.  gratis:  "without  cause,"  as  often  in  the  Vulgate;    see  lo.  15J25. 

54.  For  the  theme,  compare  Lc.  23.34. 

60.  faciendos  nos  fore  dixit:  "He  tells  us  what  we  ought  to  do;" 
the  gerundive  denoting  necessity  or  obligation;  a  strange  per- 
sonal construction  where  the  neuter  would  be  expected. 

61.  prior:  either  as  in  the  translation,  or  "before  this,  hitherto," 
as  opposed  to  at  nunc  in  verse  66. 

62.  Compare  lo.  10.11. 

63.  Compare  verse  12. 

66.  The  theme  is  from  lo.  20.17. 

67.  aethra:   compare  note  to  Mar.  147. 

68.  For  the  theme,  compare  lo.  14.18-26. 

70.  piipillos:    "orphans";    compare  note  to  Mar.  68. 

71.  flaminis  almi:  so  also  in  verse  28. 

73.  The  theme  is  from  Mt.  28.20. 

74.  finetenus:  compare  verse  38. 

77.  virguncula:    compare  note  to  Mar.  33,  575,  736. 

82.  See  note  to  verse  4. 

84.  mando:  ace.  with  inf.;  classical  usage  demands  dat.  with  ut. 

89.  astrigeram  in  aulam:    compare  verse  21. 

in  aulam:  for  the  classical  in  aula;   probably  to  form  homoeote- 
leuton  with  ponam. 

90.  The  theme  is  from  lo.  19.26;    note  also  impero  with  ace.  and  inf. 

91.  gemmis  virginitatis :   compare  Bas.  28. 

96.  cum  nube  sereno:   abl.  of  means  with  cu7n. 

97.  cunei:  multitudes;  lit.  "wedges";  also  the  vertical  rows  of 
seats  in  a  theater,  and  by  metonomy,  those  who  filled  these  seats. 

98.  doctus  psallere:    skilled  in  chanting;    note  doctus  with  the  inf. 

99.  orsis:   compare  note  to  Mar.  173. 

100.  petiisse:  perfect  inf.  in  the  sense  of  the  Greek  aorist  inf.;  see 
Hale  and  Buck,  Latin  Gramvmr,  sec.  472  b. 

101.  exaltare:  the  imperative  of  the  middle  voice;  a  Greek  usage; 
thus  "lift  Thyself";  supply  exaltator  with  tuu  gloria.  For  the 
theme,  compare  Ps.  56.6,  12:  107.6. 

-85- 


Tlie  Ascensio 

104.  From  the  Ps.  98.9. 

105.  orantes:  lit.,  "addressing,  speaking  to." 

106.  constat:  that  is,  est. 
111.  Compare  lo.  14.27. 
113.  Compare  Ac.  1.9. 
115.  Compare  Ac.  1.51. 

117.     patefactis  coelis:     compare  Diony.  67. 

119.     stellato  cardine:    from  the  starry  heaven;     compare  the  hymn 

0  gloriosa  virgine,  ascribed  to  Fortunatus. 
126.     aetlira:    compare  note  to  the  Mar.  147. 

129.  psallebat:  an  emendation  to  supply  a  lacuna;  cantavit  is  often 
read. 

130.  For  the  theme,  compare  Ps.  46.6. 

132.  solio  ab  alto:  compare  Mar.  21  A;  Verg.,  Aen.  8.541:  10.301. 

133.  dicens  ad  proprium  natum:  regularly  a  dat.  construction;  dicere 
ad  is  frequent  in  the  Vulgate,  as  in  Lc.  2.34. 

divino  famine :  famen,  sermo,  verbum ;  compare  also  Pafn.  7.2. 

134.  Compare  ML  3.17. 

138-140.     For  the  theme,  compare  Ps.  109.1. 

141.     de  husto:  from  the  grave;   busto  from  buro,  the  obsolete  form 

of  uro,  "to  burn";  originally,  the  funeral  pyre;     compare  Lucr. 

3.906. 
147-150.     Passages  such  as  these,  in  which  the  author  makes  personal 

allusions,  were  instrumental  in  establishing  the  authenticity  of 

her  works.     Compare  further  Mar.  18;  Pelag.  3;  Gong.  12;  as 

also  her  prefaces  and  dedications. 


86 


(INVOCATIO) 

0  pie  lucisator,  mundi  rerumque  parator, 

Qui  caelum  pingis  sideribus  variis 
Solus  et  astrigera  regnans  dominaris  in  aula, 

Numine  cuncta  tenens  imperioque  regens; 
Tu,  qui  per  proprium  fecisti  saecula  natum 

Et  rerum  trinam  ex  nihilo  machinam, 
Quique  protoplasto  de  terra  rite  creato 

Oris  divini  nectare  nempe  tui 
Sensus  vitalem  sufflasti  forte  liquorem, 
10  Ut  fixum  digiti  esset  opus  proprii: 

Tu  dignare  tuae  perfundere  corda  famellae 

Hrosvithae  rore  tis  pie  gratiolae, 
Carmine  quo  compto  valeam  pia  pangere  facta 

Sancti  Gongolfi  martyris  egregii 
Et  laudare  tuum  semper  nomen  benedictum, 

Qui  post  bella  tuis  grata  dabis  famulis 
Praemia  perpetuae  tenui  pro  vulnere  vitae, 

Mandans  in  regno  vivere  lucifluo. 


PASSIO  SANCTI  GONGOLFI  MARTYRIS 

Tempore  quo  regni  gessit  Pippinus  eoi 
20  Francorum  sceptra  regia  pro  populo 

lureque  magnifico  rexit  Burgundia  regna, 

Subiectos  frenis  rite  domando  suis, 
Famosus  iuvenis  nutritur  partibus  illis, 

Armis  praevalidus,  corpore  conspicuus, 
Nomine  Gingulfus,  morum  probitate  venustus; 

Omnibus  hie  carus  extitit  et  placidus. 
Ilium  nempe  ferunt  ortum  de  germine  regum 

Regalemque  suis  moribus  egregiis. 
Ipsius  e  matris  gremio  spes  pendet  in  illo, 
30  Qui  verbo  cuncta  condidit  ex  nihilo, 

Germinis  et  tanti  sese  non  credit  honori, 

Sed  transit  meritis  almitiem  generis. 


(INVOCATION) 

0  loving  Creator  of  Light,  Maker  of  the  world  and 
of  all  things;  Thou  Who  dost  stud  the  heavens  with 
varied  constellations  and  as  Ruler  dost  alone  control 
the  starry  realm,  holding  all  things  by  Thy  Will  and 
governing  them  by  Thine  authority;  Thou  Who 
through  Thine  own  Son  didst  make  the  world,  and 
didst  from  nothing  create  the  triple  universe,  and 
when  Thou  hadst  fonned  the  first  man  from  the  slime 
of  the  earth,  didst  by  the  sweetness  of  Thy  divine 
mouth  breathe  into  him  the  breath  of  life  and  make 
him  a  living  soul,  that  there  might  be  a  fixed  work  of  10 
Thine  own  Hand :  do  Thou  deign  to  overflow  the  heart 
of  Thy  servant  Hrosvitha  with  the  dew  of  Thy  sacred 
grace,  so  that  I  may  succeed  in  celebrating  in  song  duly 
made,  the  goodly  deeds  of  the  illustrious  martyr  Gon- 
golf ;  and  may  ever  praise  Thy  blessed  Name,  Who 
after  the  combat  will  give  to  Thy  servants  a  gladsome 
reward  of  eternal  life  for  the  slight  wounds  of  this  life, 
assigning  to  them  to  dwell  in  the  kingdom  of  Light. 

THE  MARTYRDOM  OF  BLESSED  GONGOLF 

At  the  time  when  Pippin  of  the  Eastern  Empire  held 
the  royal  sceptre  for  the  people  of  France,  with  ex-  20 
cellent  justice  ruling  the  Burgundian  nation,  restrain- 
ing by  his  laws  those  whom  he  had  as  subjects,  there 
lived  in  those  regions,  Gongolf,  a  renowned  youth, 
valiant  in  arms,  handsome  in  person,  and  charming  in 
the  rectitude  of  his  morals.  Dear  he  was  to  all,  and 
amiable.  They  say  that  he  was  sprung  from  a  royal 
race  and  that  he  was  kingly  in  his  noble  manners. 
Even  from  his  mother's  womb  the  hope  of  Gongolf 
rested  in  Him  Who  made  all  things  out  of  nothing  by 
His  word,  and  Gongolf  did  not  put  his  trust  in  the  30 
splendor  of  his  descent  but  he  exceeded  his  nobility  of 
birth  by  good  deeds. 

-89- 


The  Gongolfus 

Inclyta  nam  genitrix  tali  faetu  pie  felix 

In  mundi  lucem  fudit  ut  hanc  sobolem, 
Ocius  abluitur  vetulis  baptismate  culpis, 

Quas  protoplastes  obtinuere  patres; 
Crismatis  unguento  scripto  sibi  fronteque  signo 

Ascitur  natis  ecclesiae  nitidis, 
Pascitur  et  plene  fidei  mox  dogmate  trinae, 
40  Dum  vagit  cuna  corpore  lacteolo : 

Lac  quoties  sucxit,  toties  fidei  sacra  sumpsit, 

Suspensus  matris  uberibus  geminis. 
Talibus  incubuit,  lactis  dum  gurgite  vixit; 

Hinc  pulsus,  gravido  ferbuit  ingenio, 
Canitiemque  senum  membris  meditando  tenellis 

Non  raro  sacris  nempe  vacat  studiis. 


Quern  mox  imberbem,  tota  probitate  vigentem. 

Gratia  Pippini  principis  almifici 
Regali  non  inmerito  sisti  iubet  aula, 
50  Ardenter  talem  corde  colens  iuvenem. 

Sed  pietas  ilium  quamvis  iustissima  regis 

Ditaret  tantae  munere  gloriolae, 
Regius  ut  primis  esset  proconsul  ab  annis, 

Turgenti  fastu  non  tamen  erigitur, 
Pectore  sed  tales  humili  fastidit  honores, 

Suspirans  aulae  munera  sidereae. 
Nam  patrii  census  fuerat  sibi  maxime  partus, 

Dividit  et  tanto  pauperibus  studio, 
Ceu  Christum  miseros  inter  sentiret  egenos 
60  Arridere  suo  munere  fronte  pio; 

Saepe  lob  atque  viri  normam  tractando  beati 

Ipse  manus  manco,  pes  fuit  et  podagro, 
Se  necnon  orbo  cautum  praebebat  ocellum, 

Exemplum  cunctis  nobile  dans  populis. 
Nee  minus  humanis  sudavit  denique  causis, 

Aequalem  primis  se  faciens  dominis. 
Nam,  male  si  nostras  aures  simulata  vetustas 

-90- 


The  Gongolfus 

The  renowned  mother  who  was  happy  in  so  glorious 
a  son,  as  soon  as  she  had  brought  this  child  into  the 
world,  speedily  had  him  baptized  and  thus  cleansed 
from  the  ancient  stain  which  our  first  parents  had  con- 
tracted. And  when  the  sign  of  the  Cross  had  been 
made  with  Holy  Chrism  upon  his  brow,  he  was  re- 
ceived among  the  illustrious  sons  of  the  Church ;  and 
presently,  while  crooning  in  his  cradle,  he  was  richly 
nourished  upon  the  doctrine  of  the  Most  Holy  Trinity.  40 
As  often  as  he  took  milk,  so  often  did  he  drink  in  the 
sacred  faith  as  he  lay  there  at  his  mother's  breasts; 
such  was  the  bosom  on  which  he  reclined  while  he 
thrived  on  the  nourishment  of  his  mother's  milk. 
After  he  was  weaned  from  it,  he  was  animated  with  a 
serious  disposition;  and  while  in  tender  years  he 
meditated  the  thoughts  of  old  age,  he  was  continuously 
devoted  to  holy  studies. 

Presently,  while  yet  a  youth,  advancing  in  all  right- 
eousness, he  was  through  the  favor  of  the  beneficent 
prince  Pippin,  who  cherished  an  ardent  affection  for  50 
him  because  of  his  excellence,  brought,  as  he  well  de- 
served, to  the  royal  court.  Yet  even  though  the  due 
kindliness  of  the  king  lavished  upon  him  such  glory, 
that  even  in  his  early  years  he  was  royal  pro-consul, 
he  was  not  puffed  up  with  haughty  arrogance,  but  in 
his  humble  heart  he  loathed  honors,  seeking  only  the 
benefits  that  are  from  above.  For  to  him  especially 
there  had  fallen  the  bulk  of  his  father's  possessions, 
but  this  he  divided  with  great  eagerness  among  the 
poor,  as  though  he  saw  Christ,  in  the  midst  of  the 
wretched  and  the  indigent,  smiling  upon  him  because 
of  his  goodly  gift.  Considering,  moreover,  the  example  60 
of  Blessed  Job,  he  became  very  often  a  hand  to  the 
maimed  and  a  foot  to  the  halt;  to  the  orphaned  of 
sight  he  served  as  a  cautious  eye,  thus  giving  all  people 
a  noble  example.  No  less  eagerly  did  he  labor  in 
human  affairs,  making  himself  equal  to  the  first  of  the 
lords.    For  if  false  history  of  the  past  has  not  deluded 

-91- 


The  Gongolfus 

Non  rebus  fictis  luserat  et  dubiis, 
Hie,  quern  nostra  manus  coepit  iam  pingere,  sanctus 
70  Est  assuetus  iter  quadrupedum  sequier, 

Sedulo  venando  lassat  quoque  membra  decora, 

Succumbens  cari  imperio  domini. 
Ipsius  et  telum  numquam  scit  cedere  victum. 
Cum  sint  ferrati  obpositi  cunei, 
t  Offert  <praeclarum>  semper  sed  ab  hoste  triumphum, 
Tutus  divino  caelitus  auxilio. 

Certe  non  nostrae  possunt  dictando  camenae 

Composito  modulis  texere  dactilicis, 
Quantis  dilectum  signis  variaverat  istum 
80  Rex  regum  summa  pro  bonitate  sua; 

Sed  tamen,  inculto  quamvis  sermone,  latrabo 

Unum  de  Claris  pluribus  et  variis. 
Ut  res  facta  probat,  turmas  ducendo  pr§ibat, 

Capturus  populum  Marte  satis  tumidum ; 
Extitit  et  solito  victor  mox  denique  bello, 

Eius  non  laeso  sanguine  purpureo, 
Gentibus  adversis  proprio  quoque  iure  subactis 

Censum  signavit;    pace  data  vediit. 
Contigit  et  ducente  via  se  pergere  iuxta 
90  Cuiusdam  saepta  pauperis  opposita; 

Quis  latuit  pictum  vernanti  flore  locellum, 

Tectum  multiplicis  germinis  atque  comis, 
Necnon  fonticulus  vitreo  candore  serenus 

Profluxit  rivo  rura  rigans  stridulo. 
Hie  ubi  praeclaros  senior  deduxit  oeellos, 

Perlustrans  liquidam  fonticuli  scatebram, 
Frigoreae  captus  limphae  paulisper  amore 

Substitit  et  placitis  tardat  iter  morulis ; 
Et,  mittens  puerum,  venisse  rogabat  ad  ilium 
100         Domnum  florigeri  ipsius  ergo  loci, 

Qui,  praecepta  ducis  eomplens  extimplo  iubentis, 

Quo  fuerat  iussus,  egreditur  citius. 
Hunc  dux  ipse  quidem  dum  respexit  venientem, 

Aggreditur  blandis  protinus  alloquiis, 

-92- 


The  Gongolfus 

our  ears  with  vain  and  doubtful  things,  this  holy  man, 
whom  our  hand  has  already  begun  to  depict,  was  ac- 
customed to  follow  the  track  of  four-footed  beasts  and 
by  eager  hunting  to  weary  his  handsome  limbs,  sub- 
mitting to  the  command  of  his  cherished  master.  His  70 
sword  never  knew  how  to  yield  vanquished  when  war- 
like troops  were  opposed,  but  he  always  brought  a  glo- 
rious triumph  home  from  the  fray,  safely  protected  by 
divine  aid. 

Our  muses  cannot  adequately  in  these  verses  fash- 
ioned in  dactylic  measures  set  forth  with  how  many 
marks  of  distinction  the  King  of  Kings,  in  proportion 
to  His  goodness,  had  bedecked  His  beloved.  Yet  in  un-  80 
tutored  words  I  shall  loudly  proclaim  but  one  of  the 
many  glorious  distinctions. 

As  history  proves,  he  went  forth  to  lead  the  army 
and  to  subdue  a  people  exceedingly  haughty  in  war. 
Soon  he  conquered  as  usual  in  battle,  not  shedding  his 
own  crimson  blood,  and  signing  an  agreement  with  the 
hostile  tribes  whom  he  had  subjected  under  his  own 
sway ;  and  when  he  had  made  peace,  he  returned.  It 
chanced  that  while  he  was  on  his  march,  the  road  led 
along  the  fenced-in  estate  of  a  certain  poor  man.  In  90 
this  a  picturesque  spot  lay  hidden  amidst  a  wealth  of 
vernal  flowers,  shaded  with  the  leafage  of  various 
plants.  A  clear  crystal  fount  with  noisy  stream  gushed 
forth,  watering  the  spot.  When  the  leader  laid  his  re- 
nowned eyes  on  this,  suffering  them  to  range  over  the 
clear-gushing  stream,  he  was  fascinated  by  the  charm 
of  that  cool  spring,  and,  halting,  he  stopped  his  march, 
well  pleased  to  tariy  there.  Then  he  sent  a  servant  to 
summon  the  owner  of  that  flower-covered  spot.  100 

He  who  had  been  summoned  came  quickly,  comply- 
ing at  once  with  the  will  of  the  leader.  When  the  gen- 
eral beheld  him  advancing,  he  approached  him  and  in 
persuasive  tones  begged  him  in  the  aff'ability  of  his 

-93- 


The  Gongolfus 

Atque  rogans  humilis  tota  dulcedine  mentis 

Formavit  lingua  talia  verba  sua: 
"Dulcis  amice,  meis  precibus  sis,  postulo,  largus 

Et  vendas  purum  hunc  mihi  fonticulum. 
Qui  clarus  vitreis  et  suave  sonantibus  undis 
110         Prolambens  arva  irrigat  ista  tua: 

Et  mox  argenti  tibi  pro  mercede  probati 

Largiter  infundo  pondera  non  modica." 
Ast  ubi  tinnitum  dando  promissio  laeta 

Aures  personae  intrat  in  exiguae, 
Laeta  nitet  facies,  totae  volitant  quoque  venae, 

Cordis  secreto  quae  latuere  loco. 
Tunc  miser  in  talem  coepit  prorumpere  vocem, 

Ultra,  quam  credas,  spem  dubiam  siciens: 
"0  nostrate  decus,  nulli  pietate  secundus, 
120         Quern  colit  eous  mente,  fide  populus. 

Quid  tibi,  quid  digni  potis  est  mea  lingula  fari? 

Nonne  tuis  manibus  est  sita  nostra  salus? 
Et  quicquid  mihi  per  verbum  sancis  faciendum, 

Quamvis  difficile  sit  satis  atque  grave, 
Attamen  est  aequum  tibi  me  parere,  beate, 

Ut  dulum  summo  exiguum  domino: 
Si  placet  hinc  vetulum  me  transmigrare  colonum, 

Non  contraluctor,  sed  tua  iussa  sequor." 
Haec  ait,  et  pressis  frenat  sua  verbula  labris, 
130         Nee  post  verbosa  quid  loquitur  ligula. 

Et  contra  vir  regalis  pie  talia  fantis 

Suscepit  dicta  pro  bonitate  sua 
Et  citius  dicto  solvit  promissa  misello, 

Illi  centenos  attribuens  solidos. 
Haec  ubi  perfecit,  raptim  redeundo  migravit, 

Nitens  ad  patriam  pergere  posthabitam. 
Tunc,  qui  non  gnari  fuerant  signi  venerandi, 

Olim  facturus  quod  fuit  altithronus, 
Blasphemare  ducem  tacitis  coepere  susurris 
140         Et  pietatis  opus  spernere  ceu  facinus. 

Credite,  non  latuisse  dolum  pietatis  homullum, 

-94- 


The  Gongolfus 

humble  mind  with  some  such  words :  "Sweet  friend, 
attend  generously  to  my  pleadings,  I  beseech  thee,  and 
sell  me  this  clear  streamlet,  which  with  its  crystal  and 
sweetly-murmuring  waves  washes  and  waters  thy 
land :  and  presently  I  will  in  return  heap  upon  thee  an 
ample  amount  of  genuine  silver."  110 

When  the  joyful  promise  with  its  delectable 
tingle  reached  the  ears  of  the  poor  man,  his  happy 
face  beamed,  and  all  the  emotions  which  were  hidden 
in  the  secret  recesses  of  his  heart  rushed  tingling 
through  his  veins.  Then  the  poor  man,  more  athirst 
than  you  could  imagine  for  a  doubtful  hope,  began  to 
break  forth  in  some  such  words :  "0  thou,  our  coun- 
try's glory,  second  to  none  in  holiness,  whom  the  na- 
tions of  the  East  venerate  with  loyal  hearts,  what  is 
my  tongue  able  to  say  worthy  of  thee?  Is  not  our  120 
safety  placed  in  thy  hands?  Whatever  thou  by  thy 
word  shalt  ordain  that  I  do,  be  this  ever  so  difficult 
and  arduous,  it  is  but  just,  0  fortunate  one,  that  I  obey 
thee  as  the  humble  servant  of  a  high  lord.  If  it  please 
thee  that  I,  an  old  fanner,  leave  this  place,  I  will  not 
resist,  but  will  follow  thy  command." 

When  he  had  said  this  he  restrained  his  lips  from 
further  speech,  nor  did  he  say  any  more  with  loqua- 
cious tongue.  But  on  his  part  the  princely  Gongolf 
hearkened  to  the  dutiful  speech  in  his  own  goodness,  130 
and  speedily  kept  his  promise  to  the  poor  peasant  and 
gave  him  a  full  hundred  coins.  This  transaction  con- 
cluded, he  immediately  set  out  on  his  return,  hastening 
to  continue  his  journey  toward  the  fatherland  now 
less  esteemed.  Thereupon,  those  who  were  ignorant 
of  the  august  miracle  which  the  Most  High  would  soon 
perform,  began  to  revile  their  chief  with  subdued 
murmurings  and  to  condemn  his  deed  of  piety  as 
though  it  were  a  crime.  140 

But,  believe  it,  their  pretense  of  devotion  did  not 
escape  the  man,  for  soon  their  secret  words  were  laid 

-95- 


The  Gongolfus 

Sed  mox  nudari  clancula  dicta  sibi. 
Qui  dedit  arguto  vocem  tunc  nempe  palato 

His  verbisque  suos  alloquitur  socios: 
"Cur  libet,  o  socii,  vosmet  reprehendere,  cari, 

Plus  iusto  verbis  me  satis  illicitis, 
Causa  stultitiae,  dicentes,  me  tribuisse 

Nummos  ignoto  extraneoque  viro, 
Me  vacuum  tanti  meritoque  dolere  lucelli 
150         Et  bene  mercati  utpote  fonticuli, 

Dextra  ceu  propria,  census  est  quae  pie  larga, 

Aurum  pro  donis  si  dederim  minimis? 
Non  decet,  hoc  nostris  vobis  reserarier  orsis, 

Quid  velit  addicti  causa  sibi  pretii ; 
Mentes  sed  motas  praestat  componere  vestras, 

Et,  rogo,  parcatis  talibus  alloquiis 
E  vobisque  virum  caute  nunc  credite  gnarum 

Emissis  ventis  aeribusque  vagis, 
Ut  iam  semotum  citius  repetendo  locellum 
160         Lustret,  si  vena  fonticuli  liquida 

More  suo  flores  inter  bene  multicolores 

Perstrepat  undisono  murmure  per  lubrica : 
Tunc  patet,  ille  lucris  sese  si  iactat  ab  illis 

Rusticus  ambobus,  me  vacuo  penitus." 

Haec  postquam  memorat,  cursim  quidam  remeabat, 

Tantae  dimenso  atque  viae  spatio 
Oppido  praedictum  lassus  pervenit  ad  arvum, 

Quo  fuerat  domino  vendita  limpha  pio. 
Non  tamen  extimplo  pedibus,  quamvis  curiosus, 
170         Attigit  atrioli  limina  florigeri, 

Applicat  inpexis  iuxta  sed  se  paliuris 

Necnon  hirsutis  vepribus  et  tribulis, 
Quis  fuit  incultum  solito  rus  undique  tectum, 

Nee  spineta  pede  horruit  appetere, 
lungere  praescriptis  ardens  sua  lumina  saeptis, 

Ut  lustraret  aquae  amniculum  vitreae. 
Sed  tamen  admotis  frustra  prospexit  ocellis, 

Fons  quia  desinerat  prorsus  et  hinc  aberat. 

-96- 


The  Gongolfus 

bare  to  him,  and  he  gave  utterance  in  a  clear  response 
to  his  companions,  saying :  "Why,  dear  associates,  does 
it  please  you  in  reprehensible  speech  to  censure  me 
more  than  is  just,  saying  that  I  have  stupidly  given 
a  large  sum  to  an  alien  and  a  stranger?  Why  do  you 
say  that  I  have  reason  to  grieve  over  the  loss  both  of  a 
large  amount  of  money  and  also  of  that  spring  I  just  150 
purchased  at  a  high  price,  as  if  I  had  given  by  my  own 
right  hand,  which  is  duly  prodigal  of  wealth,  gold  in 
exchange  for  an  insignificant  return  ?  It  is  not  becom- 
ing to  disclose  to  you  by  our  speech  the  reason  why 
this  hand  has  parted  with  such  a  sum.  But  now  it  be- 
hooves you  to  calm  your  agitated  minds ;  and  I  pray 
that,  forbearing  such  conversation,  you  now  choose 
from  among  you  a  trustworthy  man  experienced  in 
the  blowing  winds  and  wandering  breezes,  who  may 
quickly  return  to  seek  this  isolated  spot  and  examine 
whether  there  is  a  spring  of  clear  water  flowing  with  160 
monotonous  murmur  over  smooth  pebbles  among  gay- 
ly-colored  flowers ;  and  then  it  will  be  evident,  if  that 
rustic  boasts  of  both  gains,  that  I  have  utterly  robbed 
myself." 

When  he  had  said  this,  straightway  one  of  them  re- 
turned, and  after  passing  over  the  long  space  of  road 
he  arrived  very  much  wearied  at  that  designated 
farm,  where  was  the  spring  which  had  been  purchased 
by  the  saintly  master.  Not  immediately,  however, 
eager  though  he  was,  did  he  set  foot  upon  the  bounda- 
ries of  that  flower-bearing  court,  but  became  entangled  170 
in  twining  thorns  and  prickly  brambles  and  thistles, 
with  which  the  untilled  country  round  about  was  wont 
to  be  covered.  He  did  not  shrink  from  approaching 
the  thickets,  desirous  as  he  was  to  set  his  eyes  upon  the 
surrounding  hedges,  so  that  he  might  discover  the 
crystal  waters  of  that  little  spring.  Yet  he  looked  in 
vain  with  searching  eyes,  for  the  spring  had  dried  up 
and  had  straightway  vanished.    And  he  thought  that 

-97- 


The  Gongolfus 

Tunc  se  iuncturas  volvebat  mente  per  artas 
180         Clare  non  posse  cernere  saepiculae ; 

Ac  tractim  rigida  necnon  cervice  superba 

Incedens,  gressum  vertit  in  atriolum, 
Sperans,  sub  foliis  quod  forte  lateret  amoenis 

Florum  multimodis  undola  tecta  comis. 
Cumque  locum  peteret  fundumque  sitire  probaret, 

Qui  quondam  validis  luxuriavit  aquis, 
Usque  solum  stratus,  vacua  spe  non  bene  lusus, 

Coepit  arenosa  lingere  nempe  loca, 
Temptans,  exiguam  posset  si  lambere  guttam; 
190         Sed  nee  praesiccam  tinxerat  hinc  ligulam. 
Tandem  Gongolfi  sensit  pia  facta  sacelli, 

Se  dolet  et  meritis  credere  nolle  piis. 

Hinc  postquam  rediit  socios  iterumque  revisit, 

Aspexit  nubem  aera  conspicuam 
luxta  dulce  capud  Christi  volitare  famelli 

Instar  candidoli  denique  pallioli. 
Hanc  capiens  oculis,  coepit  depromere  verbis 

Fontis  defectum,  quem  didicit,  subitum, 
Suaserat  et  sociis,  dubium  deponere  cordis 
200         Et  meriti  sancti  iam  credulos  fieri. 

Talia  colloquiis  dum  verba  loquuntur  amicis, 

Applicuere  sui  in  propriis  domini 
Moenia  florigero  fuerant  ubi  structa  locello, 

Circumdiffusis  arboribus  variis. 
Hie  Christi  carus  gressum  direxit  amicus, 

Mente  libens  atrio  currere  purpureo, 
Et  baculum  tractis,  gessit  quem  denique,  nervis 

In  terram  fixit ;    moxque  domum  petiit. 
Illic  innumeri  certabant  rite  ministri, 

Instantes  variis  fortiter  officiis, 
210     Ipsi  qui  mensas  dapibus  ponunt  honeratas, 

Poscentes  tandem  solvere  sero  famem. 
Sed  prius  invalidam  iussit  procedere  turbam, 

Quam  suevit  mensa  pascere  saepe  sua, 
Ac  propriis  ipsa  manibus  plene  saturata 

-98- 


The  Gongolfus 

perhaps  the  density  of  the  close-plaited  thicket  made 

it  impossible  to  see  clearly.  180 

Then  slowly  advancing,  with  his  haughty  neck  still 
unbent,  he  turned  his  steps  into  the  court,  hoping  that 
perchance  the  fount  lay  hidden  beneath  the  charming 
foliage  of  the  flowers  amid  the  various  grasses.  But 
when  he  had  reached  the  place  and  had  found  that 
land  dry  which  heretofore  had  abounded  in  a  sturdy 
spring,  not  yet  thoroughly  deluded  by  vain  hope,  he 
even  prostrated  himself  upon  the  ground  and  began 
indeed  to  lick  the  sandy  places,  trying  if  in  any  way 
he  could  lap  even  the  smallest  drop,  but  he  did  not  even 
moisten  his  parched  tongue.  Finally  he  realized  the  190 
import  of  the  kindly  deed  of  the  holy  Gongolf,  and  he 
grieved  that  he  had  been  reluctant  to  believe  in  his 
pious  deeds. 

From  here  he  returned  and  rejoined  his  companions, 
whereupon  he  noticed  in  the  air  an  extraordinary 
cloud,  resembling  a  snowy-white  hood,  which  floated 
about  the  comely  head  of  the  servant  of  Christ.  Catch- 
ing sight  of  this,  he  began  to  enlarge  upon  the  sudden 
disappearance  of  the  spring,  about  which  he  had  just 
learned;  and  he  urged  his  companions  to  put  from 
their  minds  all  doubt  and  now  at  length  to  be  believing  200 
regarding  the  merits  of  the  saintly  man.  While  they 
were  conversing  thus  in  friendly  intercourse,  they 
came  upon  the  property  of  their  master,  where  walls 
had  been  constructed  about  a  place  profuse  with 
flowers  and  surrounded  with  many  and  various  trees. 

To  this  place  the  beloved  friend  of  Christ  directed 
his  steps,  well  pleased  in  heart  to  course  about  the 
beautiful  field.  Then  with  sinews  contracted  he  fixed 
the  rod  which  he  had  carried  about  with  him  into  the 
earth  and  presently  returned  to  his  dwelling.  Here  210 
unnumbered  servants  vied  with  each  other,  stoutly 
attentive  to  their  various  duties;  and  these  setting 
out  a  sumptuous  meal  now  demanded  that  he  satisfy 
his  long-endured  hunger.     But  he  ordered  that  the 

-99- 


The  Gongolfus 

Se  tandem  mensa  applicat  apposita. 
Accumbunt  pariter  Franci,  per  moenia  fusi, 

Gustantes  bachica  munera  laetitia. 
Interea  somnum  sidus  suadebat  eoum, 
220         Nox  vicina  nigras  et  minitat  tenebras, 

Atque  quies  epulas  subito  sequebatur  arnica, 

Serpens  per  membra  ebrietate  data: 
Dux  plus  insomnem  coepit  transducere  noctem, 

Intenta  Dominum  voce  precando  suum. 


Postquam  nox  scissis  discessit  victa  tenebris 

<Et>  lux  orta  plagam  cinxerat  aetheream, 
Venerunt  pueri  tironum  sorte  potiti, 

Portantes  cari  calciolas  domini, 
Et  pulsant  aulam  noctis  pro  tempore  clausam, 
230         Orantes,  aditum  iam  fieri  patulum. 

Sed  dux  paulisper  siluit  somnum  quoque  finxit; 

Post,  velut  e  somno  evigilans  gravido, 
Solvere  custodi  vectes  iubet  interiores 

Pandere  triclynium  militibusque  suum; 
His  introductis,  limpham  manibus  petit  albis ; 

Sed  nutu  Domini  defuit  altithroni. 
Tunc  vir  securus  Christi  pietate  beatus 

Unum  de  pueris  ocius  egregiis, 
Ut  sibi  deferret  virgam,  misit,  memoratam, 
240         Quam  sero  proprium  fixit  in  atriolum. 

Qui,  cursu  rapido  saliendo  per  herbida  rura, 

Circumfert  lubricos  atque  vagos  oculos, 
Inquirens  baculum  terrae  tempore  sepultum; 

Et  nactum  tractis  arripuit  digitis, 
Extraxitque  solo,  parva  remanente  caverna, 

Post  haec  conspicuum  ut  fieret  titulum. 
Certe  quo  facto  cecidit  nubecula  parva, 

Quae  volitans  aura  ante  fuit  vacua, 
Evomit  et  tumidas  ipso  disrupta  locello 
250         Undas  praescripti  denique  fonticuli, 

Mansuras  scatebrae  venas  quoque  fixit  aquosae, 

-100- 


The  Gongolfus 

crowd  of  poor  and  feeble,  whom  he  had  been  ac- 
customed often  to  feed  at  his  own  table,  come  forward. 
Then  when  he  had  given  them  their  fill  with  his  own 
hand,  he  at  length  sat  down  at  table.  The  Franks 
likewise  feasted,  reclining  about  the  halls  and  relishing 
a  feast  of  Bacchannalian  cheer. 

Meanwhile  the  eastern  star  invited  slumber;  ap- 
proaching night  threatened  black  darkness,  and  pres- 
ently friendly  rest  suddenly  followed  upon  the  banquet  220 
creeping  over  limbs  which  had  been  given  to  feasting. 
The  pious  general  began  to  pass  a  sleepless  night,  in 
fervent  voice  imploring  his  Lord. 

When  vanquished  night  departed  with  its  veil  of 
shadows  torn  and  the  rising  sun  circled  the  firmament, 
there  came  the  boys  who  held  the  rank  of  pages  with 
the  boots  of  their  cherished  master,  knocking  at  the 
door  which  had  been  barred  for  the  night  and  begging 
that  they  might  now  have  access.  The  general,  how- 
ever, was  silent  for  a  while  and  feigned  sleep.  And  230 
then,  as  though  waking  from  deep  slumber,  he  com- 
manded the  guard  to  unfasten  the  inner  bars  and  to 
open  the  room  to  the  soldiers.  When  these  were  ad- 
mitted, he  begged  water  to  wash  clean  his  hands ;  but 
at  the  will  of  the  Almighty,  water  failed  them.  Then 
this  blessed  man,  firm  in  his  devotion  to  Christ,  speed- 
ily sent  one  of  his  worthy  pages  to  fetch  the  rod 
already  mentioned,  which  he  had  in  late  evening  fixed 
in  his  estate.  240 

The  boy,  leaping  in  rapid  pace  through  the  grassy 
field,  cast  his  swift  and  wandering  eyes  about,  search- 
ing for  the  staff  but  lately  buried  in  the  ground.  And 
when  he  had  come  upon  it,  he  seized  it  with  clutching 
fingers  and  drew  it  from  the  earth,  leaving  there  a 
small  cavity,  to  serve  in  later  times  as  a  distinguishing 
mark.  This  was  hardly  done  when  the  cloudlet,  which 
before  had  been  floating  about  in  empty  air,  broke  at 
that  very  spot  and  poured  forth  the  swelling  waters  of 
the  spring  already  described  and  established  perma-     250 

-101- 


The  Gongolfus 

Virgula  praefixa  quo  fuit  exigua. 
At  puer  obstupuit  vocemque  per  aera  spargit, 

Suadens  militibus  affore  iam  citius, 
Illis  atque  novi  narravit  gaudia  signi 

Quae  rex  militiae  annuit  angelicae. 
Dum  subito  cuncti,  tanto  signo  tremefacti, 

Tollunt  mirantes  ad  superos  facies 
Expansisque  suis  omnes  ad  sidera  palmis 
260         Laudum  carminula  concinuere  Deo 

Ecce  palatinus  pelvem  manibus  tulit  unus, 

Implevit  limpha  quern  cito  conspicua, 
Laeto  Gongolfum  vultu  quoque  pergit  ad  almum, 

Ut  sibimet  signum  diceret  insolitum; 
Et,  coram  tanto  subsistens  fronte  sereno 

Consule,  de  rostro  haec  dedit  egregio: 


"Laetus"  ait  "merito  sumas  rarissima  dona, 
Quae  tibi  non  terra  contulit  exigua, 

Sed  rex  ipse  poli  summo  de  vertice  caeli 
270         Per  nubis  mirum  miserat  ofRcium. 

Hinc  nos  laetitiam  constat  nunc  carpere  magnam, 
Sortitus  tantam  es  quia  gloriolam." 


Ilicet  econtra  fatur  dux  ore  sereno. 

Reddens  responsa  talia  voce  pia : 
"Non  decet  haec  meritis"  inquid  "sat  credere  nostris, 

Umquam  tantilli  nil  quia  commerui ; 
Restat  multiplices  Christo  sed  pangere  grates. 

Qui  praesens  famulis  semper  adest  propriis." 
Dixerat,  et  solito  tinxit  se  fonte  novello, 
280         Lotus  et  altithrono  haec  cecinit  Domino : 
"0  semper  pietas,  nostrae  spes  unica  vitae ! 

0  vis  divinae  maxima  gratiolae! 
Odis  quis  potis  est  dignis  opus  omnipotentis 

Artificis  mundi  aequiperare  Dei, 
Qui  nova  praeteritis  reddit  non  dissona  signis, 

Omnia  per  genitum  saecla  regens  proprium? 

-102- 


The  Gongolfus 

nent  channels  for  the  bubbUng  fount  in  the  spot  where 
the  tiny  rod  had  been  fixed. 

The  boy,  astounded,  sent  out  a  cry,  summoning  the 
soldiers  to  hasten  thither,  and  to  them  he  narrated  the 
joy  of  the  wondrous  sign,  which  the  King  of  the 
angelic  host  had  granted.  Then  all  with  one  accord, 
terrified  at  such  a  miracle,  in  wonder  raised  their  faces 
heavenward  and  extended  their  hands  to  the  skies, 
amid  a  canticle  of  praise  giving  thanks  to  God.  And  260 
behold,  one  of  the  palace  guards  brought  in  his  hand 
a  basin,  which  he  quickly  filled  with  the  miraculous 
water.  Then  he  hastened  with  joyous  mien  to  the 
gentle  Gongolf,  so  that  he  might  make  him  aware  of 
the  singular  favor. 

Then  standing  with  calm  countenance  before  the 
mighty  consul,  he  uttered  these  words  with  joyous 
lips :  "Receive  joyfully  this  rare  gift  which  thou  didst 
merit,  and  which  the  insignificant  earth  did  not  bring 
forth  for  thee,  but  rather  the  King  of  the  heavens  hath 
sent  it  from  the  lofty  sky  through  the  wondrous  270 
service  of  a  cloud.  It  is  clear  that  from  this  we  should 
now  draw  great  joy,  because  thou  didst  receive  so 
glorious  a  distinction." 

Straightway  the  general  spoke  with  calm  demeanor 
and  made  response  in  edifying  words :  "It  is  not  be- 
coming that  thou  shouldst  at  all  attribute  these  events 
to  our  deserts,  since  I  have  never  merited  even  the 
least  favor.  But  it  remains  that  we  render  manifold 
thanks  to  Christ,  Who  Himself  is  ever  ready  to  assist 
His  own  servants." 

When  he  had  said  this,  as  was  his  wont,  he  washed 
in  the  wondrous  water,  and  having  laved  he  sang  thus 
in  praise  to  God :  "0  Eternal  Kindliness,  the  Sole  Hope  280 
of  our  life !  0  Supreme  Power  of  divine  grace !  Who 
is  able  in  worthy  accents  to  extol  the  works  of  God 
Almighty,  Creator  of  the  universe.  Who  rendereth  new 
favors,  not  unlike  the  miracles  of  past  ages,  through 
His  Son?    These  are  the  wonders  of  Thine  own  power, 

-103- 


The  Gongolfus 

Haec  sunt  virtutis  propriae  miracula,  Christe, 

Qui  quondam  populo  utpote  ludaico 
Petram  iussisti  latices  effundere  dulces 
290         Et  fel  triste  laci  dulce  satis  fieri. 

Inde,  potestatis  non  inmemor,  agne  tonantis, 

Qua  rerum  trinam  iure  regis  machinam, 
Hoc  nunc  et  nostris  voluisti  credere  terris 

Indicium  magnae  nobile  gloriolae, 
Quo  discant  teretem  degentes  saepe  per  orbem, 

Te  semper  solum  esse  fuisse  Deum. 
Hoc  quoque  nunc,  Jesu,  donum  concede  precatu, 

Abluat  ut  morbos  iste  liquor  varios, 
Quo  te  dulcisonis  conlaudet  vocibus  omnis, 
300         Qui  se  salvatum  sentiat  et  validum." 

Haec  ait,  et  vocem  sequitur  salus  alma  loquentem, 

Fitque  salubris  aqua :  laus  pia  sit  Domino ! 

Post  haec  per  vasti  volitans  cito  climata  mundi 

Proditrix  signi  fama  satis  placiti 
Non  solum  patrios  hortatur  nempe  colonos, 

Quis  fungi  dono  contigit  aurivago, 
Sed  quoque  languidolos  de  longinquo  peregrinos 

Undique  collectos  accelerare  citos 
Et  nullo  pretio  medicinae  sumere  dona, 
310         Gustando  tantum  fonticuli  modicum. 

Crebrius  incultam  videas  procumbere  turbam, 

Volventem  membra  litore  languidola, 
Ut  possis  variis  obsessos  credere  morbis 

Affore  ludaici  languidolos  populi, 
Qui  quondam,  quinis  in  porticibus  Salomonis 

Fusi  piscinae  obice  Bethsaidae, 
Certabant,  medico  limpham  turbante  superno, 

Primule  quis  morbos  ablueret  varios 
(Lege  quidem  tali  miro  sub  sorte  potiti, 
320        Ut  mox  illapsus  exueret  dedecus), 

Pluribus  in  lucem  suspensis  aegre  sequentem, 

Qui  pro  spe  vitae  efflagitant  avide, 


-104 


The  Gongolfus 

Christ,  Who  at  one  time  for  the  Jewish  race  didst  com- 
mand the  rock  to  pour  forth  sweet  waters  and  didst 
order  the  bitter  waters  to  become  very  sweet.  There-  290 
fore,  not  unmindful  of  the  power,  0  Lamb  of  the 
Thunderer,  with  which  Thou  in  justice  dost  rule  the 
triple  universe,  hast  Thou  willed  now  to  entrust 
this  noble  sign  unto  our  land  also  for  Thy  greater 
glory,  in  order  that  those  who  dwell  throughout  the 
well-formed  earth  may  learn  that  Thou  art  and  hast 
ever  been  the  only  God.  This  favor  also  grant  us  now, 
0  Jesus,  because  of  our  supplication,  that  this  spring 
may  wash  away  various  diseases,  in  order  that  each 
one  may  praise  Thee  in  sweet-sounding  strains,  who- 
ever feels  himself  made  whole  and  strong."  300 

This  he  said,  and  the  kindly  healing  forthwith  fol- 
lowed his  request,  for  the  water  became  salubrious; 
for  this  may  reverent  praise  be  given  to  the  Lord! 

After  this  the  betraying  fame  of  the  delightful 
miracle  sped  rapidly  throughout  the  regions  of  the  en- 
tire globe.  It  exhorted  not  only  the  ctizens  of  that 
land,  who  were  privileged  by  the  gift  borne  thither 
by  the  breezes,  but  also  weary  pilgrims  from  far  dis- 
tant lands,  who  speedily  collected  from  everywhere 
and  without  price  received  the  boon  of  medicine  by 
tasting  even  moderately  of  the  fountain.  Frequently  310 
one  might  see  untutored  crowds  lying  there,  tossing 
their  languishing  limbs  about  on  the  brink. 

Thus  one  might  believe  that  there  were  present 
those  of  the  Jewish  people  who  were  laden  with 
various  diseases,  and  who  formerly,  in  the  five  porches 
of  Solomon,  lay  about  the  wall  of  the  Pool  of  Beth- 
saida,  contending,  after  the  water  had  been  stirred  by 
a  celestial  healer,  which  it  should  be  that  might  first  be 
cleansed  of  his  infirmity  (for  according  to  the  law 
they  of  old  obtained  so  great  a  favor,  subject  to  choice, 
that  he  who  was  the  first  to  slip  in  should  be  cured  of 
his  disease)  ;  while  many  others  were  in  their  grief  320 
postponed  to  the  coming  day,  and  in  proportion  to  their 

-105- 


The  Gongolfiis 

Ut  raptim  medicus  supero  de  cardine  lapsus 

Turbaret  modicum  vel  pede  piscinulam : 
Haut  alias  isti  cupiere  salutis  avari 

Tangere  vel  guttam  fonticuli  minimam, 
Et,  gustu  primo  veteri  sanitate  recepta, 

Pulsabant  odis  sidera  dulcisonis, 
Grates  pro  tanto  reddentes  munere  Christo, 
330         Qui  sancti  meritis  grata  dedit  miseris ; 

Laudibus  aeque  virum  tollunt  super  aethera  dignum, 

Tanta  sui  causa  quod  tenuere  bona. 

Si  vacet  aequales  meritis  protendere  laudes 

Et  mores  tanti  egregios  duculi, 
Ante  dies  noctis  peplo  veletur  Olympo, 

Quam  metam  nostra  optineat  ratio. 
Haec  sed  linquentes  doctis  tractanda  poetis, 

Pingamus  coepta  nos  fragili  calamo. 
Certe  Francorum  populus  dum  risit  eous 
340         Illustris  meritis  et  bonitate  ducis, 

Blanditur  magnis  procerum  precibus  seniorum 

Hie  Christi  carus,  gentis  et  omne  decus, 
Quo  sibi  condignam  vellet  sociare  puellam 

Foedere  legali  coniugii  soliti, 
Ne  finem  caperet  subducta  posteritate 

Inclita  regalis  prosapies  generis. 

His  tandem  monitus  Gongolfus  dux  venerandus 

Sat  tactus  blandis  atque  patrum  monitis, 
Igni  conspicuam  proprio  iungebat  amicam, 
350         Regalem  genere  et  nitidam  facie; 

Hanc  iussit  liquidam  semper  deducere  vitam, 

Compositam  castis  moribus  et  studiis. 
Ei  mihi,  sed  coluber  cupidus,  versutus,  amarus 

Ingenium  nuptae  illicit  indocile: 
Scilicet  infelix  Gongolfi  clericus  audax 

Ardebat  propriam  plus  licito  dominam. 
Pro  dolor !    haec,  male  victa  dolo  serpentis  amaro, 

Infelix  citius  aestuat  in  facinus, 

-106- 


The  Gongolfus 

hope  of  life  were  greedily  praying  that  the  healing 
angel  might  descend  from  the  portals  of  heaven  and 
stir  the  water  even  slightly  with  his  foot.  So,  too,  did 
these  in  Gongolf's  day,  in  their  longing  for  health, 
yearn  to  touch  even  the  tiniest  drop  of  this  spring. 
Then,  restored  to  health  at  the  first  taste,  they  made 
the  heavens  resound  with  melodious  hymns,  as  they 
rendered  thanks  to  Christ  for  the  great  boon.  Who 
because  of  the  merits  of  His  holy  one  gave  such  bless-  330 
ings  to  the  wretched.  In  like  manner  did  they  exalt 
this  worthy  man  in  their  praises  to  the  skies,  because 
it  was  through  him  that  they  possessed  such  a  gift. 

If  there  were  leisure  to  extend  praise  equal  to  the 
deeds  and  excellent  character  of  a  general  so  eminent, 
day  would  sooner  be  covered  with  a  pall  of  night  in  the 
heavens  than  our  account  would  have  reached  its  ter- 
mination. But  leaving  such  things  for  the  discussion 
of  learned  poets,  let  us  describe  what  we  have  begun 
with  feeble  pen. 

At  all  events,  with  the  approval  of  the  Eastern  race 
of  Franks,  made  illustrious  by  the  deeds  and  goodness  340 
of  their  leader,  this  beloved  of  Christ  and  unsullied 
glory  of  his  race,  was  coaxed  by  many  petitions  of  the 
nobles  to  join  himself  in  lawful  wedlock  to  a  worthy 
spouse,  lest  the  renowned  line  of  that  royal  race  come 
to  an  end  for  lack  of  issue. 

The  venerable  general  Gongolf ,  finally  influenced  by 
these  entreaties  and  touched  by  the  persuasions  of  the 
fathers,  joined  to  his  own  love  a  distinguished  spouse 
of  the  royal  race  and  one  of  singular  beauty.  He  ad- 
monished his  bride  to  lead  a  blameless  life,  made  up  of 
purity  of  morals  and  aspirations.  But  alas!  the  350 
ravening  serpent,  wily  and  hateful,  beguiled  the  intrac- 
table heart  of  the  wife.  It  chanced  that  a  bold  and 
wretched  scribe  of  Gongolf  was  inflamed  by  a  more 
than  lawful  affection  for  his  mistress.  And  woe !  this 
woman,  overcome  by  the  bitter  wiles  of  the  evil  one, 
speedily  was  aflame  with  sinful  passion,  and  clinging 

-107- 


The  Gongolfus 

Inhaerens  servo  cordisque  calore  secreto 
360         Legalem  dominum  respuit  ob  famulum. 
Crimina  tunc  hostis  scalpsit  nudare  feralis, 

Quae  caluit  proprio  structa  fuisse  dolo, 
Inpatiensque  morae  vacuas  iaculabat  in  auras, 

Divulgando  suam  denique  laetitiam. 

Dum  fuerat  vulgo  res  diffamata  dolenda 

Francorum  gentis  omnibus  indigenis, 
Pulsu  linguarum  tenues  conflatur  ad  aures 

Sancti  Gongolfi,  consulis  almifici. 
Ut  capit  <auditu>  latebras  illapsa  per  artas 
370         Verbula  non  minimae  nuntia  maestitiae, 
Ingemuit  tarn  triste  nefas  dignissimus  heros, 

Angoris  magno  tangitur  et  iaculo; 
Intus  in  angusto  volvit  quoque  pectoris  antro 

Res  sibi  diversas,  triste  dolendo,  duas: 
Primule  vindictam  poenali  lege  parandam 

Pro  sceleris  tanti  crimine  terribili, 
Post  vero  veniam  solitae  pietatis  amandam ; 

Et  dolet  ad  tempus  hinc  nimium  dubius. 
Certe  sed  meritam  solvit  tandem  pie  poenam, 
380         Diffamare  scelus  nee  placet  ulterius, 

Sollicitus  tantum  miserae  crimen  prohibere, 

Ne  post  haec  temere  viveret  in  scelere. 
Cumque  piam  curis  mentem  laxaret  in  illis, 

Contigit,  atriolo  currere  se  proprio 
Contra  fonticuli  sibimet  prius  hostia  missi 

Nubis  per  mirum  caelitus  officium. 
Hie  ubi  Gongolfus  subsisteret  ipse  beatus, 

Coniux  lasciva  affuerat  subito; 
Quam  mox  pacificis  affatur  denique  verbis, 
390         Talia  dictando  ore  satis  gravido: 

"Parte  tua  famam  didici  persaepe  sinistram, 

Quod  corrupta  toro  sis  male  si  proprio, 
Differo  sed  vulgo  tractare,  tui  miserando. 

Donee  forte  sciam,  te-ne  fuisse  ream ; 
Nee  mando  multam  subito  concurrere  turbam 

-108- 


The  Gongolfus 

to  the  scribe  she,  in  the  secret  infatuation  of  her  heart, 
rejected  her  lawful  lord  for  the  sei-vant.  The  fierce  360 
enemy  now  itched  to  expose  the  crime  which  he  knew 
had  been  formed  by  his  own  cunning,  and  therefore, 
impatient  of  delay,  he  kept  proclaiming  it  from  the 
house-tops,  making  many  sharers  in  his  malicious  joy. 

While  this  state  of  affairs  was  to  the  distress  of  all 
being  rumored  abroad  throughout  all  the  inhabitants 
of  the  Frankish  nation,  it  was  wafted  by  gossip  to  the 
sensitive  ears  of  the  blessed  Gongolf ,  the  gracious  gen- 
eral. When  he  heard  the  rumors  gliding  about 
through  secret  channels  and  bearing  an  import  of  no 
slight  distress  and  affliction,  the  worthy  man  bemoaned  370 
the  great  wickedness  and  was  wounded  with  the  arrow 
of  bitter  anguish.  In  his  poignant  grief,  he  reflected 
within  his  innermost  soul  upon  two  opposite  courses : 
first  to  prepare  a  punislmient  according  to  law  for 
the  act  of  terrible  injustice,  secondly  to  grant  affec- 
tionate pardon  in  accord  with  his  usual  goodness ;  and 
for  a  long  time  he  suffered  from  excessive  uncertainty 
as  to  what  he  should  do.  At  length  indeed  he  devotedly 
remitted  condign  punishment  and  did  not  choose  to 
divulge  further  the  affair,  solicitous  only  to  prevent  380 
further  guilt  on  the  part  of  the  hapless  woman,  so  that 
hereafter  she  might  not  presume  to  lead  an  impious 
life.  And  when  he  was  resting  his  pious  mind  from 
these  distressing  cares,  he  chanced,  while  wandering 
about  his  courtyard,  to  come  upon  the  head  of  that 
spring  which  had  been  divinely  sent  him  through  the 
wondrous  office  of  a  cloud. 

Here  the  saintly  Gongolf  halted,  for  his  faithless 
spouse  had  suddenly  come  upon  him.  Her  he  ad- 
dressed in  kindly  tones  but  with  serious  demeanor: 
"I  have  often  heard  sinister  rumors  touching  thee,  to 
the  effect  that  thou  hast  been  corrupted  by  a  couch  390 
thus  wickedly  made  your  own,  but  I  defer  to  drag  the 
matter  into  the  light  of  day,  out  of  pity  for  thee,  until 
mayhap  I  may  learn  whether  or  not  thou  art  guilty. 

-109- 


The  Gongolfus 

Accitam  flendo  undique  concilio, 
Ut  volvat  gnarus  subtili  sorte  senatus 

Causam  terribilis  et  meritum  sceleris: 
Sed  suadebo  manum  dextram  te  tinguere  tantum 
400         Praesentis  limpha  fonticuli  gelida; 

Et,  si  non  subito  dampni  quid  contigit  ergo, 

Ultra  iudicio  non  opus  est  alio." 
Quae  tunc,  plus  iusto  confidens  corde  superbo, 

Confortante  suam  daemone  duritiam, 
Fundo  nudatam  commitit  denique  palmam, 

Nil  sperans  damni  posse  sibi  fieri. 
Inter  frigoreas  ardens  sed  comperit  undas, 

Quid  posset  nostri  dextera  celsa  Dei : 
Scilicet  in  madidis  audax  ardebat  harenis, 
410         Uritur  et  flammis  acriter  aequoreis, 
Et  quae  pacificis  fastidit  cedere  verbis, 

Cogitur  aeternae  cedere  iustitiae. 


0  semper  nostri  facilis  mutatio  Christi, 

0  virtus  iusti  iudicis  aequa  Dei ! 
Nam,  quae  iactando  tinxit  se,  triste  dolendo 

Exuitur  tincti  pellicula  brachii; 
Nee  mora,  cum  palmam  retulit,  quod  forte  negavit. 

Portavit  crudum  criminis  indicium. 
His  ita  digestis,  pavitat  mens  conscia  fraudis 
420         Ultra  nee  victae  spes  fuerat  veniae, 

Tantum  certa  mori  corruptelamque  piari 

Loetali  poena  ocius  apposita. 
Sed  tristis  meritam  mentis  mitigaverat  iram 

Princeps  Gongolfus,  arbiter  egregius, 
Mandans,  ut  propria  damnandus  clericus  ergo 

Expulsus  subito  pergeret  e  patria, 
Quo  sua  finetenus  mala  defleret  scelerosus, 

Seclusus  patria  et  datus  exilio, 
Et  donat  miseram  veniae  miseratus  honore, 
430         Ultra  sed  proprio  non  locat  in  thalamo. 


110 


The  Gongolfus 

Nor  do  I  enjoin  that  speedily  a  mob  be  summoned  from 
everywhere  to  a  doleful  assembly,  so  that  the  learned 
senate,  of  high  rank,  may  try  the  case  and  fix  the  pun- 
ishment for  so  heinous  a  crime.  I  will  but  urge  thee 
merely  to  moisten  thy  right  hand  with  the  cool  waters 
of  this  fountain  here,  and  unless  immediately  some  400 
punishment  results,  there  will  be  no  need  of  further 
trial." 

And  the  woman,  with  rash  confidence,  in  the  pride 
of  her  heart,  her  own  obstinacy  yet  more  confirmed  by 
the  evil  one,  at  length  entrusted  her  bare  hand  to  the 
depths  of  the  water,  expecting  nothing  to  happen.  Yet 
she  learned,  as  she  burned  in  the  midst  of  the  cooling 
water,  what  thing  the  right  Hand  of  God  is  able  to  do. 
For  indeed  the  haughty  woman  was  scorched  amid  the 
sodden  sand  and  was  severely  burnt  by  the  watery 
flames;  and  she,  who  disdained  to  be  subdued  by  410 
peaceful  words,  was  forced  to  submit  to  Eternal 
Justice. 

0  ever-ready  dispensation  of  our  Christ!  0  equit- 
able power  of  the  just  judgment  of  God!  She,  who 
boastingly  moistened  her  hand  with  the  liquid,  much  to 
her  grief  was  deprived  of  the  skin  of  her  moistened 
hand  without  delay,  as  soon  as  she  withdrew  her  hand, 
and  she  now  bore  the  painful  indictment  of  the  infamy 
which  she  had  denied.  Now  after  these  events,  her 
heart,  conscious  of  guilt,  trembled,  nor  did  the  convict- 
ed woman  entertain  any  hope  of  pardon ;  ready  only 
to  die  and  to  expiate  her  crime  by  the  punishment  of 
death  speedily  imposed.  But  restraining  the  just  420 
wrath  of  his  sad  heart,  Gongolf,  the  general,  that  ex- 
cellent peacemaker,  demanded  that  the  profligate 
scribe  be  at  once  expelled  and  go  from  his  own  coun- 
try, in  order  that  the  criminal  might  to  the  end  of 
his  days  bewail  his  evil  life,  shut  out  from  his  father- 
land and  driven  into  exile ;  and  pitying  the  wretched 
woman,  he  bestowed  upon  her  the  distinction  of  par- 
don, but  suffered  her  to  dwell  no  more  in  his  abode.         430 

-111- 


The  Gongolfus 

Post  haec  Gongolfi  fama  crescente  beati, 

Laudatrix  vitae  quae  fuit  almificae, 
Vaffer  deceptor  hominum  captorque  reorum, 

Evolvens  bilem  invidii  veterem, 
Fraudibus  omnigenis  antiquae  callidatis 

Temptavit  famam  evacuare  bonam, 
Ne  gens,  exemplo  tali  tantoque  suasa, 

Ante  superba  sua  colla  daret  Domino. 
Tempore  tunc  longo  sudavit  fraude  maligna 
440         Laedere  famosum,  nee  valuit,  duculum, 
In  soles  quia  multo-magis  vis  crevit  amoris 

Illius  magni  cordibus  in  populi. 

Postremo  fraudis  miserum  circumdedit  armis. 

Quem  sceleris  causa  reppulit  e  patria, 
Sanguinis  huncque  siti  iussit  fervere  superbi. 

Nee  seivit  proprio  parcere  iam  domino. 
Tali  suffusus  subito  cum  felle  misellus 

In  mortem  iusti  aestuat  atque  pii, 
Ac,  parili  repetens  ganeam  feritate  malignam, 
450         Illi  nudavit  omnia,  quae  studuit. 

Ocius  haec,  eius  pravis  (heu)  subdita  votis, 

Optavit  citius  iam  fieri  facinus, 
Tendit  et  insidias  iusto  clam  nempe  nefandas, 

Inmemor  antiquae  (ah)  penitus  veniae; 
Qua  se  de  poena  solvit  iam  rite  paranda 

Nee  patitur  vitam  morte  perire  ream ; 
His  ingrata  magis  socio  consensit  iniquo 

Servilique  lupa  uritur  igniculo. 
Cumque  polum  tegeret  tenebris  nox  conseia  fraudis, 
460         Sensit  dampnanda  tempus  inesse  lupa. 

Quo  male  Gongolfum  possunt  extinguere  sanctum, 

Haec  et  perverso  nuntiat  armigero; 
Qui,  resecans  coxam  stricto  muerone  sacratam 

Sancti  Gongolfi,  martyris  eximii, 


112- 


The  Gongolfus 

From  now  on,  as  good  repute,  the  panegyrist  of  a 
beneficent  life,  had  increased  in  behalf  of  Gongolf,  the 
wily  deceiver  of  men  and  the  captor  of  the  wicked, 
pouring  out  the  ancient  venom  of  envy,  with  every  pos- 
sible deceit  of  his  ancient  cunning,  attempted  to  de- 
stroy the  good  reputation  of  Gongolf,  lest  the  nation, 
influenced  by  his  great  and  worthy  example,  might 
give  its  one-time  haughty  neck  to  the  yoke  of  the  Lord. 
Then  for  a  long  time  he  strove  with  malicious  guile  to 
injure  the  famous  general.  But  in  vain,  because  from 
day  to  day  the  power  of  the  affection  for  him  in-  440 
creased  more  and  more  in  the  hearts  of  that  great 
people. 

At  length  Satan  encompassed  with  deceitful  wiles 
that  wretched  man  who  because  of  his  crime  had  been 
driven  from  the  country,  making  this  wretch  burn 
with  a  thirst  for  noble  blood ;  and  he  knew  not  how  to 
spare  his  own  lord.  To  such  a  degree  was  the  pro- 
fligate suddenly  imbued  with  hatred  that  he  desired 
the  death  of  the  just  and  holy  Gongolf;  and  when  he 
had  sought  again  the  hateful  adulteress,  his  equal  in 
savage  fierceness,  he  disclosed  to  her  all  that  he  had 
planned.  She,  readily  submitting,  alas,  to  his  requests, 
desired  that  the  crime  be  accomplished  without  delay ;  450 
and  secretly  she  prepared  accursed  snares  for  the  just 
man,  thus  utterly  unmindful  of  the  past  pardon,  by 
means  of  which  Gongolf  had  freed  her  from  a  punish- 
ment justly  ready  to  be  inflicted,  and  had  not  allowed 
the  guilty  woman  to  be  destroyed.  Ungrateful  for  these 
benefits,  the  adulteress  yielded  to  her  sinful  accom- 
plice, and  was  inflamed  with  passion  for  the  sei'vile 
scribe.  And  when  night,  the  witness  of  deeds  of  dark- 
ness, had  covered  the  heavens  with  shadows,  the  des- 
picable adulteress  felt  the  hour  to  have  come  in  which  460 
they  might  treacherously  destroy  the  saintly  Gongolf; 
and  this  fact  she  made  known  to  the  armed  scoundrel. 
He  with  drawn  sword  severed,  sacrilegiously,  the  hip- 
bone of  the  sainted  Gongolf,  that  illustrious  martyr, 

-113- 


The  Gongolfics 

Deseruit  patriam,  fugiens  cum  coniuge,  caram, 
Raptus  amore  suae  indomitae  dominae. 

Sed  non  legalis  finem  ceu  nescit  amoris, 
Sic  vindicta  suam  nescit  habere  moram, 

Viscera  sed  subito  profudit  caelitus  acta, 
470         Pridem  laetitia  quae  fuerant  tumida; 

Sicque  miser,  celsa  prostratus  vindice  dextra, 
Vita  mercatam  perdiderat  ganeam. 

Nam  martir  sanctus  furtivo  vulnere  laesus 

Dum  mortis  gustum  ebiberet  rapidum 
Necnon  supremis  moriens  spiraret  in  horis, 

Astabat  coetus  comminus  angel icus, 
Voce  ciens  stabilem  corpus  deponere  testem 

Contextum  venis  fictile  languidolis, 
Necnon,  angelicis  blanditum  suaviter  hymnis, 
480         Mox  caeli  calles  carpere  sidereas. 

Ocius  expirans  animam  martir  bene  lotam 

Agni  lucenti  sanguine  purpurei 
Tollitur  ex  aura  vehiturque  per  astra  serena, 

In  caeli  porta  sistitur  et  Domino. 
Hie  sibi  de  Christi  fertur  mox  laurea  rara 

Et  manibus  bravii  palmula  perpetui, 
Lucentique  stola  cuneis  coniungitur  albis 

Per  vulnus  loeti,  quos  tenet  aula  poli. 


Funeris  interea  magni  fit  pompa  parata, 
490         Ornant  exequiae  corpus  et  exanime; 

Plangebant  cuncti  casum  tantique  patroni, 

Ipsius  famuli  maxim.e  sed  miseri. 
Eligiturque  locus  tumulo  locuples  venerando, 

Quem  tradunt  veteres  Tul  vocitare  patres; 
Illic  Gongolfi  condebant  membra  beati, 

Sacros  spargentes  cum  lacrimis  cineres. 
Post  haec  non  raro  visitabant  ossa  sacrata, 

Quaerentes  certum  denique  praesidium : 
Sternuntur  sacro  procerum  quoque  corpora  busto 

-114- 


The  Gongolfus 

and  leaving  his  fatherland,  he  fled  with  the  wife  of 
Gongolf ;  thus  was  he  captivated  by  passion  for  his  un- 
governed  mistress.  But  just  as  he  knew  not  the  bounds 
of  lavv^ful  love,  so  punishment  suffered  not  itself  to  be 
delayed ;  but,  by  heaven's  decree,  he  suddenly  poured 
out  his  bowels  and  heart,  so  lately  puffed  up  with  pride 
and  sin,  and  thus,  the  wretched  man,  laid  low  by  the 
avenging  hand  of  God,  lost  the  adulteress  he  had  pur-  470 
chased  with  a  life. 

In  the  meantime,  while  the  holy  martyr,  injured  by 
that  stealthy  wound,  was  draining  the  cup  of  immi- 
nent death  and  was  in  that  supreme  moment  drawing 
his  latest  breath,  there  stood  about  him  a  celestial 
throng.  They  summoned  with  their  voices  this  firm 
confessor  to  cast  off  the  body  fashioned  with  feeble 
sinews  from  the  earth,  and  sweetly  soothed  with  their 
angelic  strains,  straightway  to  tread  the  starry  path- 
way to  the  heavenly  abode.  Then  the  martyr  present-  480 
ly  breathing  forth  the  soul  well  laved  in  the  radiant 
blood  of  the  Crimson  Lamb,  was  borne  aloft  and  car- 
ried through  the  serene  starry  sky,  and  at  the  gate  of 
heaven  placed  before  his  Lord.  Thereupon  from  the 
hands  of  Christ  there  were  brought  to  him  the  distin- 
guished laurel  and  the  palm  of  perpetual  victory,  and 
through  his  mortal  wound,  he,  clad  in  glittering  gar- 
ments, was  joined  to  the  white  host  whom  the  court  of 
heaven  contains. 

Meanwhile  a  great  funeral  procession  was  arranged, 
and  the  lifeless  body  was  honored  with  solemn  obse- 
quies ;  all  wept  at  the  death  of  such  a  patron,  but  his  490 
own  servants  were  especially  disconsolate.  A  charming 
spot,  which,  it  is  said,  the  ancients  called  Tul,  was  se- 
lected for  that  venerable  tomb.  Here  the  body  of  holy 
Gongolf  was  laid  to  rest  while  the  sacred  remains  were 
besprinkled  with  tears.  From  then  on,  those  seeking 
unfailing  help  often  visited  those  hallowed  bones,  and 
even  the  nobles  bent  low  over  that  sacred  tomb  be- 
cause of  the  various  vicissitudes  of  this  uncertain  life ; 

-115- 


The  Gongolfus 

500         Pro  vitae  causis  instabilis  variis; 

At,  qui  sceptra  gerit,  prostratus  marmora  lambit 

Et  libat  tumulo  oscula  marmoreo, 
Munere  spe  dictis  rogitans,  quo  mai-tiris  almis 

Pro  meritis  Christus  sit  sibi  propitius. 

Quid  referam  turbam  templi  pro  limine  iactam, 

Quidve  loquar  vota  illius  innumera? 
Haec  certa  nullus  potis  est  conprendere  sensus 

Nee  possunt  ullae  dicere  litterulae. 
At  contra  vero  testis  prosperrimus  ipsis 
510         Largitur  talis  munera  dulcedinis, 

Omnis  ut  absque  mora  sentit,  fore  prospera  cuncta, 

Efflagitant  testem  pro  quibus  egregium : 
Hie  eerte  laeto  caecus  visu  reparato 

Haurit  mox  oculis  lumina  clara  suis. 
Atque  diu  elausae  reserantur  vocibus  aures, 

Et  gressus  plantis  redditur  invalidis; 
Hie  quoque  de  variis  morbus  depellitur  aegris, 

Mundatis  membris  denique  languidolis. 
Orsis  non  valeo  digne  praeclara  monere 
520         Munera,  quae  populus  his  metit  egregius. 
Nee  solum  eari  refoventur  amore  patroni, 

Quis  eives  tanti  eontigit  esse  viri; 
Sed  pariter  terris  habitantes  forte  remotis 

Sentiscunt  promtum  martiris  auxilium. 
Hine  se  felicem  iactat  Tul  terra  per  orbem. 

Quae  molli  gremio  eonfovet  ossa  sacra. 

Denique  summatim  coepi  quia  tangere  sancti 

Gongolfi  facta  martiris  egregia, 
Restat,  uti  tenui  repetam  sermone  misellam 
530         Illius  indignam  coniugio  ganeam, 

Quodque  dedit  signum  merito  dampnanda  baratro 

Invita  propriis  conveniens  meritis. 
Certe  victoris  cum  iam  laetissima  testis 

Pulsaret  eelsi  sidera  fama  poli 
Totos  et  stabilis  fines  percurreret  orbis, 

-116- 


The  Gongolfus 

and  he  who  bore  the  sceptre,  lying  prostrate,  pressed     500 
his  lips  to  the  marble  and  printed  kisses  upon  the  holy 
grave,  imploring  with  hope,  promises,  and  vows,  that 
through  the  loving  merits  of  the  martyr,  Christ  might 
be  propitious  to  him. 

Why  should  I  describe  the  crowd  lying  before  the 
threshold  of  that  sacred  place,  or  why  recount  their 
numberless  petitions  ?  These  things  no  mind  is  able  to 
comprehend  and  no  feeble  writing  able  to  describe.  Yet 
the  martyr,  propitious  to  them,  bestows  gifts  of  won- 
drous sweetness,  and  every  man  realizes  that  all  favors  510 
will  be  vouchsafed,  in  behalf  of  which  they  supplicate 
the  goodly  champion. 

Here  in  truth,  the  blind,  joyous  at  the  restoration  of 
his  sight,  presently  drinks  in  with  his  eyes  the  clear 
light  of  day.  And  the  ears  long  shut  to  sound  are  un- 
barred, while  movement  is  restored  to  lame  feet.  Here 
also  various  diseases  are  driven  from  the  sick,  and 
enfeebled  limbs  are  cleansed.  I  am  not  capable  with 
words  in  a  becoming  manner  of  enumerating  all 
the  wondrous  gifts  which  this  great  nation  gleans.  520 
Not  only  do  those  burn  with  affection  for  their  cher- 
ished patron  who  chance  to  be  townsmen  of  the  great 
man,  but  citizens  even  of  distant  lands  experience  the 
ready  assistance  of  the  martyr.  Thus  the  land  of  Tul 
boasts  itself  fortunate  throughout  the  universe,  cher- 
ishing in  its  tender  bosom  those  sacred  bones. 

Finally,  because  I  have  begun  summarily  to  discuss 
the  sacred  deeds  of  the  illustrious  Gongolf,  it  remains 
that  I  now  seek  to  speak  in  simple  words  about  that 
wretched  profligate,  the  unworthy  wife  of  Gongolf, 
and  the  sign  agreeing  to  her  own  misdeeds,  which  she, 
worthy  as  she  was  of  condemnation  to  eternal  perdi- 
tion, unwittingly  manifested.  Certain  it  is,  that  when  530 
gladsome  fame,  the  witness  of  the  victor,  had  reached 
even  to  the  stars  of  the  most  high  heavens  and  had 

-117- 


The  Gongolfus 

Divulgans  tantae  gaudia  gloriolae, 
Gaudens  devotus  quidam  currebat  homullus 

E  busto  signis  composito  variis, 
Obvius  atque  lupae  factus  supra  memoratae 
540         Substitit,  attonitis  aspiciens  oculis, 

Hanc  quoque  pro  mentis  dictis  affatur  amaris, 

Conformans  ligula  talia  verba  sua: 
"0  nimis  infelix  flammis  credenda  meretrix, 

lamne  piget  fraudis,  poenitet  aut  sceleris 
In  sanctum  Domini  non  iusta  mente  patrati, 

Solo  lascivi  consilio  socii? 
Nam  miserando  tui  pando  medicamina  sani 

Optima  consilii  mox  capienda  tibi, 
Suadens,  ut  sacrum  quaeras  maerendo  sepulchrum 
550         Abstergas  fusis  et  maculas  lacrimis, 
Illic  exanimis  sancte  quia  condita  testis 

Praefulgent  signis  fragmina  non  minimis; 
Et,  licet  indignam,  spero  te  posse  misellam, 

Si  defies  culpam,  consequier  veniam." 


Pestiferis  sed  mens  vitiis  male  dedita  totis 
Ad  vitae  rectam  rennuit  ire  viam, 

Solaque  nunc  laetae  complectens  lubrica  vitae 
Non  curat  patriae  gaudia  perpetuae. 

Sic  haec  infelix,  commissi  criminis  auctrix, 
560         Fastidit  verbis  credere  pacificis, 

Se  quia  credebat  causis  totam  perituris. 
Nee  spem  mansuris  gestit  habere  bonis. 


Scilicet  auditis  verbis  non  falsa  loquentis, 
Intorquens  oculos  subdola  sanguineos, 

Exagitat  caput  indomitum  f  inpatienter  in  ilium 
Et  latrat  rostro  talia  pestif ero : 

"Cur  loqueris  frustra,  simulans  miracula  tanta 
Sedulo  Gongolfi  pro  meritis  fieri? 

Haec,  quae  dicuntur,  certe  non  vera  probantur, 

-118- 


The  Gongolfus 

sped  to  every  quarter  of  the  stable  world,  publishing 
the  grandeur  of  Gongolf 's  glory,  a  certain  devout  man 
was  hastening  joyfully  from  the  tomb  celebrated  for 
its  miracles.  Then  encountering  the  adulteress  pre- 
viously mentioned,  he  paused ;  and  looking  at  her  with 
astonished  gaze,  he  addressed  her  in  bitter  words  she 
deserved,  fashioning  with  his  lips  speech  to  this  540 
effect :  "0  wretched  profligate,  well  desei*ving  of  eter- 
nal flames,  does  not  now  thy  treachery  shame  thee,  or 
that  crime  grieve  thee  which  thou  with  evil  mind  hast 
wrought  against  the  holy  one  of  God  by  the  secret 
instigation  of  a  wanton  accomplice?  But  now  I  open 
out  in  pity  of  thee  the  excellent  remedy  of  sane  advice, 
which  thou  oughtest  forthwith  to  employ,  that  amid 
weeping  thou  seek  the  holy  tomb  and  wash  away  thy 
stains  with  abundant  tears,  because  the  remains  of 
this  witness,  now  dead,  here  sacredly  entombed,  are 
resplendent  with  extraordinary  manifestations.  And  550 
I  trust  that  it  will  be  permitted  thee,  thou  wretch, 
however  unworthy,  to  be  able  to  obtain  pardon  if  thou 
bewailest  thy  guilt." 

But  that  mind,  that  had  wickedly  given  itself  up  to 
all  baneful  vices,  refused  to  move  along  the  upright 
way  of  life.  And  now  embracing  only  the  unstable 
pleasures  of  a  wanton  life,  she  cared  naught  for  the 
joys  of  the  eternal  fatherland.  Thus  the  unfortunate 
woman,  bold  deviser  of  crime  that  she  was,  refused 
to  pay  heed  to  these  peaceable  admonitions,  because 
she  committed  herself  totally  to  transitory  things  and  560 
strove  not  to  have  any  hope  in  imperishable  goods. 

So,  though  hearing  these  words  of  him  who  spoke 
the  truth,  the  crafty  woman,  darting  about  her  blood- 
thirsty eyes,  tossed  her  unsubdued  head  angrily  and 
barked  at  him  from  her  pest-breathing  lips  these 
words :  "Why  dost  thou  speak  to  no  purpose,  pretend- 
ing that  miracles  happen  repeatedly  through  the 
merits  of  Gongolf?  Those  things  which  are  reported 
are  certainly  not  proven  true ;    nor  do  miracles  occur 

-119- 


The  Gongolftis 

570         Non  desint  signa  illius  ut  tumulo, 

Haut  alias,  quam  mira  mei  miracula  dorsi 

Proferat  extrema  denique  particula." 
Dixerat,  et  verbum  sequitur  mirabile  signum, 

Illi  particulae  conveniens  propriae: 
Ergo  dedit  sonitum  turpi  modulamine  factum, 

Profari  nostram  quale  pudet  ligulam, 
Et,  post  haec  verbum  quoties  formaverat  ullum, 

Reddidit  incultum  hunc  toties  sonitum, 
Ut,  quae  legalem  respuit  retinere  pudorem, 
580         Sit  risus  causa  omnibus  inmodica, 

Finetenusque  suae  portet  per  tempora  vitae 

Indicium  proprii  scilicet  obprobrii. 


120- 


The  Gongolfus 

at  his  grave  any  more  than  do  wondrous  manifesta- 
tions take  place  about  my  person."  570 

This  she  said,  and  lo!  a  marvelous  happening  fol- 
lowed her  words,  according  with  the  taunt  she  had 
uttered.  For  from  her  came  forth  sounds  so  disgusting 
that  our  tongue  abhors  to  mention  them;  and  after 
this,  as  often  as  she  spoke,  so  often  would  that  un- 
canny noise  recur;  so  that  she,  who  had  refused  to 
maintain  due  chastity,  was  a  source  of  uncontrolled 
ridicule  to  all  and  carried  indeed  for  the  rest  of  her 
days  the  mark  of  her  own  iniquity.  580 


NOTES  ON  THE  SAINT  GONGOLF,  THE  MARTYR 

In  the  dictionary  of  Saints  we  have  an  account  of  Gongolf,  the 
son  of  a  noble  and  rich  family.  He  was  born  in  720  at  Varennes 
in  Burgundy.  Because  of  the  faithlessness  of  his  wife,  he  retired 
from  the  court  of  Pippin  and  from  his  military  career  to  Varennes, 
where  he  led  a  solitary  life  and  where  the  paramour  of  his  wife  killed 
him  May  11,  7G0. 

The  circumstances  of  his  death  and  the  miracles  wrought  at  his 
tomb  appear  to  have  led  to  his  being  honored  as  a  martyr,  although 
he  was  rather  a  victim  of  conjugal  infidelity.  His  relics  were  scat- 
tered to  Langres,  Eichstadt,  and  Bamberg. 

The  poem  of  Hrosvitha,  composed  in  elegiac  couplets  and  over 
five  hundred  lines  in  length,  is  one  of  her  most  felicitous  works  and 
contains  some  fine  descriptive  passages.  As  it  is  somewhat  uncertain 
what  version  Hrosvitha  made  use  of,  we  cannot  tell  definitely  how 
far  she  drew  upon  her  own  powers  of  imagination. 

There  is,  however,  an  account  of  Gongolf  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum 
Mai,  To.  2.244.  In  the  version  of  Hrosvitha  there  are  many  passages 
of  striking  similarity,  and  one  is  almost  convinced  that  she  had  this 
for  her  source.  But  if  such  be  the  case  she  was  not  very  faithful 
to  the  original ;  and  even  though  in  her  other  works  she  deviated 
from  a  too  slavish  imitation  of  her  models,  yet  Professor  Ebert  is 
of  the  opinion  that  she  had  a  copy  other  than  the  above  mentioned 
Vita.     See  Ebert,  p.  290,  note. 

-121- 


The  Gongolfus 

The  armor  of  Gongolf  was  still  at  the  time  of  the  original  Vita 
preserved  in  the  church  which  bears  his  name  at  Varennes.  This  Vita 
belongs  apparently  to  the  end  of  the  ninth  century  and  contained 
material  obtained  from  oral  tradition,  A  warm  spring  found  in  the 
locality  somehow  gives  some  foundation  to  the  story. 

I.  lucisator:  compare  Prud.,  Cath.  3.1. 

3.         astrigera  in  aula:  compare  note  to  Mar.  140. 

5.  For  the  theme,  compare  lo.  1.3. 

6.  reruvi  trinam  machinam:  the  threefold  universe,  the  earth, 
the  sea,  and  the  heavens.  Compare  "Quern  Terra,  Pontus, 
Aethera,"  Prud.,  Carm.  3;  Cath.  9.  14; 

machinam:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

7.  protoplasto:  compare  note  to  Mar.  395. 

8.  oris  divini  nectare  tui:  compare  Gen.  2.7. 

9.  liquorum:  evidently  transferred  from  its  usual  sense  of  "liquid" 
to  that  of  "breath." 

II.  corda:  poetic  plural. 

12.  rore  gratiolae:  compare  Mar.  38. 

13.  cai-mina  compto:  compare  Verg.,  Georg.  2.386. 

pia:  either  ace.  with  facta;  or  possibly  nominative  with  sub- 
ject of  vale  am. 

14.  Compare  "Vita  Gongulphi"  Acta  Sanctorum  Mai,  To.  2.643. 

19.  regni  gessit  Pippinv^  eoi:  Pippin  was  king  of  the  Eastern 
Franks  about  843;  he  was  the  great-grandson  of  Charlemagne. 

25.  Gingulfus:  the  codex  uses  this  spelling  once;  so  also  Strecker 
and  Winterfeld. 

32.       almitiem:  perhaps  coined  by  Hrosvitha.     Compare  Gest.  Pref.  2. 

36.  protoplastes  patres:  our  first  parents.  Note  here  the  correct 
quantity  of  the  first  syllable  in  protoplastes.  This  word  is  here 
changed  from  second  to  third  declension  for  the  sake  of  the 
rhyme. 

38.  ascitur:  more  correctly  adscitur;  "admitted  into";  "adopted"; 
thus  Statius,  "adscita  proles,"  child;     see  also  Cic,  De  Fin.  5.7. 

40.  vagit  cuna:  more  correctly  with  in;     compare  Mar.  859. 

41.  Compare  also  Prud.,  Perist.  10.684.     suxcit:  suxit. 

43.  gurgite:  lit.  a  whirlpool;  with  the  poets  any  deep  water;  con- 
veys also  a  sense  of  prodigality.  Compare  Sedul.,  A  Solis  Ortus 
Cardine  41;     also  Mar.  786. 

45.       For  the  theme,  compare  Prud.,  Perist.  3.24. 

52.  tantac  gloriolae:  not  with  diminutive  force.  Compare  also 
verses  272,  536. 

57.  patrii  census:  compare  verse  305;  also  Gest.  603,  667;  Pelag. 
40;    Diony.  18;  Mar.  546,  681. 

60.       arridere  munere  fronte  pio:    compare  verse  339. 

61-66.     For  the  theme,  compare  lob  29.  15;  also  Vita  1.3. 

-122- 


The  Gongolfus 

70.  sequicr:  the  obsolete  infinitive  passive;  compare  note  to  Mar. 
199. 

74.  ferrati  cunei:  compare  verse  487;  Asc.  97;  Theoph.  140;  Gest. 
652. 

75.  A  lectio  varians  of  Barack  has,  Effert  <praeclarum>  one  of 
Winterfeld  reads:  "Offert  semper  ab  hoste  triumphum;"  this 
however,  would  interfere  with  Hrosvitha's  metrical  scheme. 

80.  pro  bonitate  sua:   compare  verse  132. 

81.  inculto  sermo:  compare  Agn.  26. 

87.       iure  subiactis:  the  abl.  of  means  where  the  dat.  would  be  ex- 
pected. 
91 — 94.     One  of  the  beautiful  descriptive  passages  of  Hrosvitha. 

98.  morulis:  the  diminutive  of  mora;  not  necessarily  here  in 
diminutive  sense;    compare  Aug.,  Conf.  1.11.15. 

99.  venisse:  perfect  for  the  pres.  inf.;  perhaps  the  aoristic  perfect. 
101.     extimplo:   for  extemplo. 

104.     alloqidis  blandis:    compare  verse  156. 

114.     tinnitum:    compare  Abra.  3.12. 

118.  siciens:  a  lectio  varians  has  sitiens;  another,  sciens;  Barack 
suggests  ciens,  which  is  possible. 

120.     eons  populus:  compare  verses  19,  219,  339;  Mar.  359. 

mente   fide:    asyndetic    hendiadys    for    mente    fideli;      compare 
verse  296;     Theoph.  412;  Agn.  323. 

126.  summo  exiguum:  note  the  hiatus  here  accompanying  the 
caesura. 

136.  patriam  posthabitam :  perhaps,  "now  less  esteemed,"  or  "long 
neglected." 

138.  olim:  at  some  future  time;  Hrosvitha  refers  here  to  the  trans- 
fer of  the  spring. 

141.  homidlum:  diminutive  of  homo;  not  necessarily  diminutive  in- 
sense  here. 

148.     extraneoque :   the  second  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

153.     reserarier:  archaic  infinitive  passive. 

158.  cminsis  ventis  aeribusque  vu.gis:  a  difficult  line  to  interpret. 
Perhaps  it  is  to  be  taken  in  its  literal  sense:  "one  experienced 
in  blowing  winds  and  wandering  breezes;"  or  "amid  favorable 
winds  and  wandering  breezes";  Winterfeld,  note  p.  39,  suggests 
that  it  might  refer  to  the  subduing  of  their  own  passions  and 
excitement:  "Nachdem  ihr  euer  windiges  Wesen  habt  fahren 
lassen,  erwahlt  euch  mit  Vorsicht  einen  kundigen  Vertrauens- 
man." 

164.  Tunc  patet:  then  it  will  be  evident;  construe,  "si  ille  rusticus 
sese  iactat  ab  illis  ambobus  lucris,  me  vacuo  penitus." 

me  vacuo:    perhaps  abl.  absolute;    compare  verse   149. 

165.  dimenso  spatio :  dimctior  with  passive  construction. 
167.     oppido:    the  adverb,  "exceedingly." 

-123- 


The  Gongolfus 

175.     sua  lumina:  "his  eyes." 

180.     saepiculae:    the  thicket;     not  diminutive  in  sense. 

183.  sperans  . . .  quod  lateret:  subjunctive  in  a  substantive  clause, 
instead  of  accusative  with  infinitive. 

184.  znidola:    "a  little  wave";     the  diminutive  of  "unda." 
187-189.     Note    the    humorous    manner    in    which    Hrosvitha    relates 

this  episode. 

arenosa  loca :  "sandy  places." 

nevtpe:  metri  explendi  causa. 

190.     tinxerat:    pluperfect  for  perfect. 

194.     Compare  verse  247. 

196.     pallioli:    not  diminutive  in  sense. 

200.  credulos:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa,  here  followed 
by  gen.,  as  if  by  analogy  with  scius,  peritus,  and  the  like. 

202.  applicucre  sui  in  propriis  domini:  "they  came  upon  the 
property  of  their  master:"  that  is,  the  estate,  not  the  site  of 
the  fount.  It  was  here  that  Gongolf  planted  the  rod,  and  to 
this  place  the  spring  was  miraculously  transplanted.  This 
incident  has  been  variously  interpreted.  Dorer  thinks  that  his 
friends  dried  up  the  spring,  lest  they  lose  the  companionship 
of  their  loved  master.  Barack  has  the  spring  to  issue  forth 
from  its  original  place.  I  am  inclined  to  accept  the  more 
logical  interpretation  of  Ebert  and  of  Gundlach,  who  emphasize 
the  miraculous  transfer  of  the  spring  from  the  country  to 
Gongolf's  estate.  Thus  the  cloud  above  Gongolf's  head  was  the 
spring.  This  interpretation  will  elucidate  many  of  the  following 
passages. 
in  propriis:    a  lectio  varians  has  se  propriis. 

211.     Compare  Verg.,  Aen.  1.706. 

218.  bachica:  for  bacchica;     the  first  syllable  is  short,  metri  causa. 

219.  eoum  sid».s;  the  Eastern  Star;  Hrosvitha  has  apparently  con- 
fused the  Morning  and  Evening  Stars;  the  Roman  poets  make 
a  point  of  the  identity  of  Morning  and  Evening  Stars. 

221.  Compare  Prud.,  Cath.  6.17.26. 

222.  ebrietate:  for  ebrietati;  abl.  for  dat.;  or  perhaps  a  dat.  in  e; 
metri  causa. 

234.  triclynium:  the  antepenult  is  short;  metri  causa. 

235.  manihas  albis:  perhaps,  "delicate  hands"  or  the  proleptic  ex- 
pression, "for  washing  his  hands  white." 

244.     Note  the  passive  of  nascor. 

tractis:   literally,  "contracted." 
246.     ut  fieret  coyispicuum  titidxim:  a  lectio  varians  has  faceret;   this 

would  give  the  accusative,  but  titidum  occurs  also  as  a  neuter 

nominative. 
250.     denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 

-124- 


The  Gongolfus 

265.  f route  sereno:  frons  is  sometimes  masculine  as  in  Plautus; 
otherwise,  sereno  may  go  with  consule,  fronte  being  abl.  of 
respect. 

266.  de  rostro  egregio:  rostrum,  a  "beak";  also  the  mouth  as  in 
verse  566;  Agn.  199;  Pelag.  103,  242. 

270.  per  nuhis  miserat  officium:  compare  verse  386. 

272.  tantam  gloriolam:  compare  verse  52. 

281.  spes  unica:  compare  Mar.  13. 

282.  divinae  gratiolae :  not  diminutive  in  sense. 
284.  aequiperare:  for  aequiparare. 

286.  saecla:  syncope  for  saecula;  compare  Intro,  xxi. 

287.  Compare  the  Vita  1.6. 

288.  qui  utpote:    generally  ntpote  qui  with  subjunctive. 

290.  The  theme  is  from  Exod.  15.23. 

291.  Agne  Tonantis:  "Lamb  of  the  Thunderer." 

295.     teretem  orbem:    compare  Notker,  Seq.  de  Apost.,  "teres  mundi 
circulus." 
degentes  saepe:  perhaps  in  the  sense  of  degentes  frequentes. 

297.  precatu:  could  also  be  dat.  after  concede;  compare  Buck,  Com- 
parative Grammar  of  Greek  and  Latin,  sec.  266.3. 

304.  proditrix  fama:  betraying  fame;  compare  fama  laudatrix  vitae, 
verse  432;  sinistra  fama  prodente,  Agn.  118;  Prim.  339;  Prud., 
Perist.  1.11. 

305.  nempe:  metri  explendi  causa. 

306.  quis  fungi  dono  contigit  aurivago:  "the  gift  borne  by  the 
breeze."  Thus  Winterfeld,  "Index  Verborum"  313,  "Die  durch 
die  Luft  an  einen  anderen  Ort  versetzte  Quelle."  See  also  note 
to  verse  202. 

308.     Compare  Mar.  618. 

314-324.     For  the  theme,  compare  lo.  5.2-5. 

320.     dedecus :    the  first  syllable  is  short ;  m,etri  causa. 

326.  Compare  also  Mar.  21. 

327.  sanitate:  short  first  syllable;  metri  causa. 
329.     Compare  Mar.  475. 

335-337.     Compare  Verg.,  Georg.  1.96,  282;  3.223;  4.562;  also  verse  60. 
339.     risit:  for  arrisit. 

341.  blanditur:  deponent  used  passively. 

342.  omne:  in  the  sense  of  "nothing  but" — hence  "unsullied,  un- 
tarnished." 

349.     Compare  Mar.  82. 

igni  proprio:  see  verse  458. 
353.     coluber  cupidus:  compare  Avitus  1.64;     also  Kuhnmuench,  S.J., 

note  to  466.177. 
362.     caluit:  for  calluit;  metri  causa. 
374.     triste  dolendo:  compare  verse  415. 
376.     crimine  terribili:   compare  verse  398. 

-125- 


The  Gongolfus 

386.     For  parallel  expression,  compare  verse  270. 
392.     si:  for  sic;  see  Sommer,  Handbuch  der  Lateinischen  Laut-  und 
Formenlehre,  p.  299,  eds.  2  and  3. 

394.  te-ne  fuisse  ream:  construe  as  if  "tune  fueris  rea." 

395.  mando  concurrere  turbam:  mando  with  ace.  and  inf.;  construed 
more  correctly  with  dat.  and  id. 

399.     suadcbo  te  tinguere :  as  above,  note  to  verse  395. 
401.     dampni:  for  darnni;  compare  Mar.  41. 

410.  fiammis  aequoreis:  note  the  oxymoron;  "watery  flames." 

411.  pacificis  verbis:  compare  verse  500. 
413-415.     For  the  theme,  compare  Ps.  91.14;  76.11. 

413.     viutatio:  literally,  "the  power  of  bringing  about  a  change." 

415.  triste  dolendo:  as  in  verse  374. 

416.  pellicula:    not  diminutive;  metri  causa, 
brachii:  for  braechii;  metri  causa. 

417.  nee  mora:  compare  Bas.  71;  Theoph.  76;  Diony.  67;  Agn.  118, 
241;  Gest.  198,  286;  Prim.  218,  248. 

419.  His  ita  digestis:  compare  Mar.  659. 

421.  certa  mori:  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  4.564. 

422.  loetali:  compare  Theoph.  362;  Agn.  410. 
424.  arbiter  egregius:  compare  Prud.,  Perist.  3.86. 

432.  almificae:  sanctitate  Celebris;  compare  verse  48;  Prim.  119;  con- 
sult Du  Cange,  sub  verbo  "almificus." 

434.     invidii:  for  the  normal  invidiae. 

437.  sudsa:  with  three  syllables,  metri  causa.  The  participle  is  here 
used  personally  in  the  passive;  see  Stolz-Schmalz,  p.  377; 
suadeo  is  used  transitively  since  Hadrian. 

444.     multo-magis:  compare  Mar.  423;   Gall.  7.1. 

447.     cum  felle:  abl.  of  means  with  cum. 

455.     de  poena  paranda:  de  for  a. 

458.  igniculo:  not  diminutive  here. 

459.  nox  conscia  fraudis:  night  conscious  of  wicked  deeds;  compare 
verse  419,  "mens  conscia  fraudis." 

460.  dampnanda:  compare  Mar.  41. 

461.  possunt:  independent  of  the  inf.  construction. 

462.  pervcrso  armigero:  that  is,  the  scribe,  who  bore  the  weapons 
with  which  to  kill  Gongolf. 

463.  sacratam:  the  person  of  Gongolf  is  considered  sacrosanct,  both 
as  ruler  and  saint. 

466.     indomitae :  because   she  knew  no   self-restraint;   note  also   the 

assonance  of  indomitae  dominae. 
469.     caelitus:  adverb,  "from  heaven;"   compare  Theoph.  188. 

472.  mercatam  ganeam:  mercor  in  the  passive  sense. 

473.  martir:  note  the  spelling;  compare  verse  481;  Pelag.  255,  268, 
291 ;  Agn.  406,  424. 

-126- 


The  Gongolfus 

481.     animam  lotam  sanguine:    compare  Pelag.  68. 

Agni  purpurei:  "of  the  Crimson  Lamb;"  note  the  fondness 
of  Hrosvitha  for  calling  the  Savior  "Lamb."  Thus  verse  291; 
Pelag.  313;  Agn.  445;  Mar.  43;  Gest.  328. 

486.  hravii:  "praemium  quod  in  publicis  ludis  dabatur;"  Dii  Cange, 
sub  verbo,  'brabium.'  Compare  Pelag.  305;  Agn.  426;  Diony. 
261;    Sap.  97.5.13. 

palmula:    not  in  a  diminutive  sense. 

487.  cuneis  albis:   compare  note  to  Asc.  97. 

491.     tantique:  et  tanti;  note  the  delayed  position  of  que. 

497.     visitabant:  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

508,     ullae  litterulae :  dim.  used  here  perhaps  to  denote  a  sense  of 

weakness:  hence  "feeble  writings." 
511.     absque  mora:  sine  mora;  compare  Mar.  489. 
514.     Strecker  suggests  a  lacuna  of  two  verses  following  this  verse; 

not  so  Barack  and  Schurzfleisch;     the  passage  is  translatable 

without  the  lacuna. 

518.  denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 

519.  orsis:  compare  Mar.  173. 

523.  habitantes  terris:  more  correctly  in  terris,  or  terras  without  in. 

526.  molli  gremio:  compare  Mar.  706;  Prud.,  Perist.     11.138. 

527.  summatim  tangere:  for  parallel  expression,  compare  Mar.  21. 
531.  dampnanda:  compare  verse  460. 

534.  pulsaret  sidera:  compare,  "subhmi  feriam  sidera  vertice," 
Horace,  Odes  1.1.36. 

535.  stabilis  orbis:  compare  Mar.  225. 

536.  gloriolae:  not  diminutive  in  sense. 
540.     attonitis  oculis:  Mar.  253. 

550.     fusis  lacrimis:  compare  Gest.  298;  Cal.  5.2. 

554.  consequier:  obsolete  inf.  passive. 

555.  vitiis  totis:  iota  here  in  the  sense  of  omnia;  compare  Cic,  De 
Natura  Deorum  2.105;  Caesar,  De  Bello  Civilii  2.26.4;  very 
common  in  late  Latin. 

567.     miracula  tanta:  compare  Pelag.  370;  Agn.  404. 


-127 


PASSIO  SANCTI  PELAGII  PRETIOSISSIMI  MARTIRIS 

QUI  NOSTRIS  TEMPORIBUS 

IN  CORDUBA  MARTIRIO  EST  CORONATUS. 

Indite  Pelagi,  martir  fortissime  Christe, 
Et  bone  regnantis  miles  per  saecula  regis, 
Respice  Hrosvitham  miti  pietate  misellam, 
Me,  tibi  subiectam  devota  mente  famellam. 
Quae  te  mente  colo,  carmen  quoque  pectore  prono, 
Et  fac,  exigui  supero  de  rore  rigari 
Pectoris  obscurum  iam  mis  clementius  antrum, 
Quo  possim  laudum  condigne  mira  tuarum 
Famosumque  tuum  calamo  signare  triumphum, 
10       Et  quam  nobiliter  mundum  cum  morte  cruentum 
Vicisti,  nitidam  mercatus  sanguine  palmam. 


Partibus  occiduis  fulsit  clarum  decus  orbis, 
Urbs  angusta,  nova  Martis  feritate  superba, 
Quam  satis  Hispanii  cultam  tenuere  coloni, 
Corduba  famoso  locuples  de  nomine  dicta, 
Inclita  deliciis,  rebus  quoque  splendida  cunctis, 
Maxime  septenis  sophiae  repleta  fluentis 
Necnon  perpetuis  semper  praeclara  triumphis. 
Olim  quae  Christo  fuerat  bene  subdita  iusto, 
20       Fudit  et  albatos  Domino  baptismate  natos. 
Bellica  sed  subito  virtus  bene  condita  iura 
Mutavit  sacrae  fidei,   spargendo  nefandi 
Dogmatis  errorem,  populum  laesitque  fidelem. 


Perfida  nam  Saracenorum  gens  indomitorum 
Urbis  Marte  petit  duros  huiusce  colonos, 
Eripuit  regni  sortem  sibi  vi  quoque  clari 
Extinxitque  bonum  regem  baptismate  lotum, 
Qui  pridem  merito  gessit  regalia  sceptra 
Et  Gives  iustis  domuit  quot  tempora  frenis. 


128 


THE  SUFFERINGS  OF  PELAGWS,  THE  MOST  PRECIOUS 

MARTYR,  WHO  IN  OUR  TIMES,  AT  CORDOVA,  WAS 

CROWNED  WITH  MARTYRDOM. 

Illustrious  Pelagius,  brave  martyr  of  Christ  and 
loyal  soldier  of  the  King  reigning  throughout  all  ages, 
regard  with  kindly  solicitude  me,  poor  Hrosvitha,  thy 
sei'vant,  who,  subject  to  thee  with  devoted  soul, 
cherish  thee  in  mind,  and  regard  too  with  gracious 
heart  my  song;  and  do  thou  kindly  grant  to  be 
watered  with  dew  from  above  the  dark  recesses  of  my 
slight  intelligence,  in  order  that  I  may  be  able  worthily 
to  celebrate  with  pen  thy  wondrous  praises  and  thy 
renowned  victory,  and  to  tell  how  with  death  thou 
didst  nobly  conquer  this  cruel  world,  purchasing  the 
glorious  palm  with  thy  blood.  10 

In  the  western  parts  of  the  globe,  there  shone  forth 
a  fair  ornament,  a  venerable  city,  haughty  because 
of  its  unwonted  might  in  war;  a  city  well  cultured, 
which  the  Spanish  race  held  in  possession,  rich  and 
known  by  the  famous  name  Cordova,  illustrious  be- 
cause of  its  charms  and  also  renowned  for  all  re- 
sources, especially  abounding  in  the  seven  streams  of 
knowledge,  and  ever  famous  for  continual  victories. 
There  was  a  time  when  it  had  been  well  submissive  20 
to  the  Holy  Christ  and  had  brought  forth  to  the  Lord 
sons  made  white-robed  by  Holy  Baptism.  But  suddenly 
that  martial  power  changed  the  well-established  prin- 
ciples of  the  sacred  faith  by  the  spreading  of  the  error 
of  iniquitous  doctrine  and  did  harm  to  the  faithful 
people. 

For  the  treacherous  tribe  of  the  savage  Saracens 
harassed  by  war  the  stout  inhabitants  of  this  city, 
seized  for  itself  the  destiny  of  the  glorious  realm  by 
force,  and  murdered  the  virtuous  king,  who  had  been 
cleansed  in  Baptism,  and  who  had  desen-edly  held  the 
royal  sceptre  and  had  subdued  the  citizens  so  many 

-129- 


The  Pelagins 

30       Hostili  ferro  certe  quo  iam  superato 
Ac  reliquo  victo  tanta  de  caede  popello, 
Ductor  barbaricae  gentis,  structor  quoque  pugnae, 
Vir  sat  perversus,  vita  rituque  profanus, 
Vindicat  imperii  sortem  sibi  denique  tanti, 
Collocat  et  socios  populate  rure  nefandos, 
Implens  maerentem  non  paucis  hostibus  urbem, 
Polluit  et  veterem  purae  fidei  genetricem 
Barbarico  ritu,  quod  nam  miserabile  dictu, 
Paganos  iustis  intermiscendo  colonis, 

40       Quo  sibi  suaderent  patrios  dissolvere  mores 
Deque  profanato  secum  sordere  sacello. 


Agmen  sed  tenerum  Christo  pastore  regendum 
lussum  perversi  respuit  mox  triste  tyranni, 
Dicens  malle  mori  legem  quoque  morte  tueri, 
Vivere  quam  stulte  sacris  famulando  novellis. 
Quo  rex  comperto  non  absque  sui  fore  damno 
Sensit,  si  cunctis  pariter  praedivitis  urbis, 
Quam  crebro  validae  cepit  luctamine  pugnae, 
Civibus  excidium  mortis  conferret  amarum. 

50       Ob  quod,  decretum  prius  immutando  statutum, 
Sanxit  mox  legem  vulgato  dogmate  talem, 
Ut,  quisquis  regi  mallet  servire  perenni 
Et  patrum  mores  olim  servare  fideles, 
Hos  faceret  licito,  nulla  post  vindice  poena, 
Hac  solum  caute  servata  conditione, 
Ne  quis  praefatae  civis  praesumeret  urbis 
Ultra  blasphemare  diis  auro  fabricatis, 
Quos  princeps  coleret,  sceptrum  quicumque  teneret, 
Seu  caput  exacto  citius  subiungere  ferro 

60       Et  sententiolam  loeti  perferre  supremam. 


-130- 


The  PelagiiLS 

times  by  the  reins  of  salutary  legislation.  He  was  now 
laid  low  by  the  hostile  sword,  and  there  remained  after  30 
terrible  carnage  a  conquered  folk ;  then  the  leader  of 
that  barbaric  race  and  author  of  that  warfare,  a  man 
very  wicked  and  of  an  accursed  mode  of  life,  finally 
appropriated  the  destiny  of  the  entire  empire,  and  set- 
tled in  the  plundered  country-side  his  wicked  allies, 
thus  filling  the  lamenting  city  with  many  enemies  and 
corrupting  with  barbarous  rites  (a  thing  pitiful  to 
relate)  that  ancient  mother  of  faith  undefiled ;  and  he 
intermingled  his  pagans  with  the  rightful  inhabitants, 
in  order  that  the  pagans  might  induce  them  to  corrupt  40 
the  customs  of  their  fathers  and  to  defile  them  by  pro- 
faning their  worship  through  association  with  the 
pagans. 

But  the  tender  flock  ruled  by  Christ,  the  Good 
Shepherd,  presently  despised  the  cruel  command  of  the 
inexorable  tyrant,  saying  that  it  preferred  to  die  and 
to  observe  the  law  even  at  the  cost  of  death  rather 
than  live  stupidly  in  servile  subjection  to  such  new 
rites.  When  the  king  had  learned  this,  he  realized 
that  it  would  not  be  without  his  own  loss  if  he  were  to 
inflict  bitter  punishment  of  death  at  one  and  the  same 
time  upon  all  within  that  prosperous  city,  which  he 
had  taken  after  many  a  contention  in  valiant  strife. 
Therefore  by  changing  his  former  decree,  he  forthwith  50 
passed  and  proclaimed  a  law  to  the  effect  that,  who- 
ever preferred  to  serve  the  Eternal  King  and  to  pre- 
serve the  one-time  Christian  customs  of  their  fore- 
fathers, might  do  so  lawfully  without  any  fear  of  pun- 
ishment. But  this  one  condition  was  to  be  faithfully 
observed,  that  no  citizen  of  the  aforesaid  city  should 
presume  also  to  blaspheme  the  idols  made  of  gold, 
which  that  prince  or  whoever  was  holding  the  power 
worshiped ;  otherwise  he  must  at  once  submit  his 
head  to  the  drawn  sword  and  must  suffer  the  supreme 
punishment  of  death.  60 


131 


The  PeUigius 

His  ita  digestis  simulata  pace  quievit 
Obruta  mille  malis  toties  urbs  nempe  fidelis. 
Sed  si  quos  ignis  Christi  succensit  amoris 
Martiriique  sitis  suasit  corrumpere  dictis 
Marmora,  quae  princeps  comptus  diademate  suplex 
Corpore  prostrate  veneratur  ture  Sabaeo, 
Hos  capitis  subito  damnavit  denique  poena: 
Sed  superos  animae  petierunt  sanguine  lotae. 

Casibus  his  plures  volvebat  Corduba  soles, 
70       Subdita  per  longum  paganis  regibus  aevum, 
Donee  sub  nostris  quidam  de  germine  regis 
Temporibus  regnum  suscepit  sorte  parentum, 
Deterior  patribus,  luxu  carnis  maculatus, 
Abdrahemen  dictus,  regni  splendore  superbus. 
Qui  nam  christicolis  faciebat  more  parentis, 
Librans  arbitrium  fidei  supra  memoratum, 
Nee  satis  iniustum  solvit  pietate  decretum, 
Auctor  quod  sceleris,  populator  perfidus  urbis, 
Sanxit,  dum  regem  superaret  Marte  fidelem ; 
80       Sed  volvens  animo,  servans  quoque  corde  profundo, 
Saepius  innocuo  madefecit  sanguine  rura. 
Corpora  iustorum  consumens  sancta  virorum, 
Qui  Christo  laudes  ardebant  pangere  dulces 
Ipsius  et  stultos  verbis  reprehendere  divos; 
Insuper  et  tanto  fastu  se  iaetat  in  aula 
Sacrilegus,  meritas  cumulans  sibi  denique  poenas, 
Ut  regem  regum  semet  fore  crederet  ipsum, 
Eius  et  imperio  gentes  omnes  dare  eolla 
Ullum  nee  tanta  populum  feritate  refertum, 
90       Qui  temptare  suas  auderet  Marte  catervas. 


Dum  tumuit  fastu  licito  iactantius  isto, 
Audiit  inde  locis  gentem  degere  remotis. 
Gallicia  regione  sitam  belloque  superbam, 
Christi  cultricem  simulacrorumque  rebellem, 

-132- 


The  Pelagius 

After  these  things  were  done,  the  faithful  city  was 
lulled  indeed  into  a  feigned  peace,  overwhelmed  as  it 
was  so  often  by  a  thousand  evils.  But  those  whom  the 
fire  of  the  love  of  Christ  consumed,  and  whom  a  thirst 
for  martyrdom  urged  in  speech  to  defame  the  marble 
images  which  the  prince,  bedecked  with  jewels  and 
with  body  prostrate,  worshiped  with  Sabean  incense : 
these  that  prince  speedily  condemned  to  capital  pun- 
ishment, but  their  souls,  purified  in  blood,  won  heaven. 

Thus  amid  vicissitudes  many  years  rolled  by  in  Cor-  70 
dova,  subject  so  long  to  the  sway  of  pagan  rulers,  until 
in  our  own  times  a  certain  prince  of  the  race  of  kings 
received  by  rightful  succession  the  throne  of  his  fa- 
thers; inferior  indeed  was  he  to  his  forebears  and 
tainted  with  the  luxury  of  the  flesh,  but  haughty  in  the 
glory  of  his  power.  This  man  was  Abdrahamen.  He 
feigned  to  deal  with  the  worshipers  of  Christ  accord- 
ing to  the  custom  of  his  father,  weighing  well  the 
agreement  of  the  faith  above  mentioned,  nor  did  he,  in 
his  loyalty  to  his  sire,  dissolve  the  unjust  decree  which 
the  author  of  crime,  that  treacherous  ravager  of  the 
city,  had  enacted  when  he  had  vanquished  in  war  the 
Christian  king;  but  revolving  it  in  his  mind  and  keep-  80 
ing  it  with  deep  devotion,  he  often  bedewed  the  land 
with  innocent  blood,  destroying  the  sacred  lives  of 
those  just  men  who  yearned  to  sing  sweet  praises  to 
Christ  and  to  denounce  in  speech  his  own  foolish  idols. 
Moreover,  this  sacrilegious  man,  conducting  himself  so 
arrogantly  in  his  palace  and  heaping  up  for  himself 
well-merited  punishment,  presumed  that  he  was  to  be 
the  very  king  of  kings,  and  that  all  nations  would 
become  subject  to  his  command,  and  that  there  was 
not  a  tribe  so  replete  with  reckless  valor  as  v.ould  ven- 
ture to  encounter  his  army  in  war.  90 

While  he  was  thus  swelling  more  disdainfully  than 
was  right,  he  heard  that  a  nation  lived  in  a  remote 
place  in  the  region  of  Galicia,  a  country  victorious  in 
war,  worshiping  Christ  and  despising  idols ;    a  people 

-133- 


The  Pelagius 

Quae  sua  continuo  temptaret  spernere  iura, 
Velle  negans  dominis  olim  fore  subdita  pravis. 
Quo  rex  comperto,  fervebat  daemonis  ira, 
Corde  gerens  veterem  serpentis  denique  bilem, 
Volvebatque  diu  flammato  dedecus  astu 

100     Quid  faceret  tantis,  animo  tractans,  inimicis. 
Tandem  nempe  dolo  cunctis  iam  forte  retecto 
Affatur  proceres  praedivitis  urbis  heriles, 
Talia  pestifero  latrando  verbula  rostro: 
"Non  latet  imperio  reges  succumbere  nostro 
Vivere  nostrarum  necnon  moderamine  legum 
Omnes  oceanus  gentes  quas  circuit  altus. 
Sed  quae  Gallicios  retinet  fiducia  captos, 
Nescio,  gratiolae  respuant  ut  foedera  nostrae 
Et  tandem  veteris  sint  ingrati  pietatis. 

110     Restat,  ut  armatis  repetamus  quippe  lacertis 
Gallicios,  hostes  agitando  forte  rebelles, 
Donee  ex  nostris  strati  per  saecula  telis 
Inviti  nostris  summitant  colla  catenis!" 


Haec  postquam  iactat  causamque  doli  memorabat, 
lussit  collectis  vulgus  concurrere  turmis, 
Armorum  variis  instructum  denique  signis, 
Pergeret  ut  gentem  secum  delere  fidelem, 
Ostentatque  suum  gemmato  casside  vultum, 
Ferrea  lascivis  inponens  tegmina  membris. 
120     Tali  cumque  locum  peteret  pompa  memoratum 
Et  gentem  primo  temptaret  denique  bello, 
Extimplo  tantum  sortitur  namque  triumphum, 
Ut  iam  bis  senos  una  cum  principe  captos 
lUaqueat  comites  artis  stringitque  catenis. 

His  procerum  dampnis  magna  feritate  paratis, 
Cessit  victa  suis  fidissima  gens  inimicis 
Subditur  atque  iugo  perversi  regis  iniquo; 
Tunc  restaurato  rursus  quoque  foedere  primo, 


134 


The  Pelagius 

which  would  dare  to  spurn  his  laws,  asserting  that 
they  would  never  be  subject  to  such  pei-verted  masters. 
When  the  king  learned  this,  he  burned  with  hellish 
fury,  bearing  in  his  heart  the  envy  of  the  ancient  ser- 
pent, and  with  fiery  cunning  he  meditated  long  upon 
the  disgrace,  planning  in  his  mind  what  he  should  do 
with  such  a  foe.  100 

At  length  forsooth,  revealing  his  scheme  to  all,  he 
addressed  the  lordly  vassals  of  that  wealthy  town, 
barking  out  baneful  words  from  his  villainous  throat 
to  this  effect :  "It  is  not  hidden  that  kings  have  sub- 
mited  to  our  empire,  and  that  all  nations  which  the 
deep  ocean  embraces  live  according  to  the  dictates  of 
our  laws.  But  I  do  not  know  what  overweening  con- 
fidence possesses  the  subject  Galicians  to  make  them 
despise  our  gracious  covenant  and  be  ungrateful  for 
past  kindness.  It  remains  therefore,  that  we  seek  out  110 
with  armed  sinews  these  Galicians,  harassing  those 
rebellious  foemen,  until  laid  low  by  our  weapons,  they 
may,  even  against  their  wills,  subject  their  necks  for 
all  times  to  our  bondage." 

After  he  had  boastfully  spoken  these  words  and  had 
recounted  the  reason  for  his  scheme,  he  commanded 
his  folk  to  assemble  in  military  array  beneath  the 
various  standards  of  the  divisions,  so  that  they  might 
proceed  with  him  to  destroy  that  faithful  nation.  And 
he  displayed  his  countenance  beneath  a  jeweled  helmet, 
his  accursed  form  clothed  in  metal  armor.  And  when 
with  such  a  procession  he  had  reached  the  city  afore-  120 
said  and  tried  the  nation  in  a  first  encounter,  he 
chanced  to  win  such  a  triumph  that  he  ensnared  as 
captives  twelve  nobles  together  with  the  lord  of  the 
city;    and  he  bound  these  men  with  strong  chains. 

When  this  loss  of  their  nobles  had  been  inflicted 
amid  savage  fighting,  the  Christian  nation,  van- 
quished, surrendered  to  its  enemies  and  was  subjected 
to  the  unjust  yoke  of  the  vicious  king.  Then  the  first 
treaty  was  again  restored,  and  the  twelve  nobles  bound 

-135- 


The  Pelagius 

Loris  procedunt  vincti  comites  duodeni 

130     Cum  concaptivo  victi  rectore  popelli. 
Qui  citius  vinclis  dissolvuntur  resolutis, 
Exempti  propriae  pretio  gazae  numeroso, 
Sed  ducis  est  pretium  iussu  regis  duplicatum, 
Ultra  quam  propriis  posset  persolvere  gazis; 
Cumque  sui  causa  regi  deferret  avaro, 
Quicquid  habere  domi  sibimet  suevit  pretiosi, 
Casu  condicti  pai-vum  quid  defuit  auri. 
Quod  rex  sentiscens,  fraudem  quoque  mente  revolvens, 
Dixit  nolle  ducem  populo  dimittere  dulcem, 

140     Ni  prius  indictum  plene  solvat  sibi  censum — 
Non  sitiens  tantum  pretii,  quod  defuit,  aurum, 
Quantum  rectorem  populi  gestit  dare  morti. 


Cui  fuerat  natus  praeclari  germinis  unus, 
Omni  praenitida  compostus  corpore  forma, 
Nomine  Pelagius,  fonnae  splendore  decorus, 
Concilio  prudens,  tota  bonitate  refulgens, 
Qui  vix  transactis  iam  tunc  puerilibus  annis 
Attigit  aetatis  primos  flores  iuvenilis. 
Cumque  sat  inmitem  patri  sciret  fore  regem, 

150     Tali  maerentem  blanditur  voce  parentem : 

"0  mi  care  pater,  mea  suscipe  verba  libenter 
Et,  quae  commoneo,  sensu  bene  percipe  prompto. 
Calleo  namque  tuam  senio  decrescere  vitam, 
Viribus  et  propriis  nervos  penitus  vacuatos, 
Nee  te  posse  quidem  levis  quid  ferre  laboris; 
Ast  ego  sed  validis  dominabor  quippe  lacertis, 
Ad  tempusque  potens  dominis  succumbere  duris. 
Quapropter  moneo  precibus  blandisque  rogabo, 
Ut  regi  natum  me  deponas  tibi  carum, 

160     Donee  sufficias  pretium  persolvere  totum. 
Nee  tua  canities  vinclis  intercidat  artis." 


-136- 


The  Pelagius 

with  thongs  advanced  together  with  their  fellow-cap- 
tive, the  chief  of  the  vanquished  nation.  These  were 
speedily  loosened  of  their  bonds,  for  they  were  ran- 
somed at  the  great  price  of  their  own  wealth.  But  the  130 
ransom  price  of  the  chief  was  at  the  command  of  the 
king  doubled  and  was  more  than  he  was  able  to  pay 
from  his  own  treasures.  And  when  for  his  own  ran- 
som he  brought  to  the  avaricious  king  whatever  of 
value  he  was  wont  to  have  at  home,  it  lacked,  as  chance 
had  it,  a  small  portion  of  the  appointed  sum.  The 
king,  becoming  aware  of  this  and  meditating  also  a 
scheme  in  his  mind,  said  that  he  was  unwilling  to  send 
their  cherished  chief  back  to  his  people  unless  he  first 
paid  to  the  full  his  designated  ransom ;  for  he  longed 
thus  not  so  much  for  the  amount  of  gold  which  was  140 
lacking,  but  he  desired  eagerly  to  give  over  to  death 
the  ruler  of  that  people. 

This  ruler  had  an  only  son,  noble,  endowed  with 
every  charm  that  bodily  comeliness  could  afford,  Pe- 
lagius by  name,  resplendent  in  person,  prudent  in 
counsel,  glorious  in  all  virtue ;  and  he,  having  hardly 
completed  the  years  of  his  boyhood,  had  now  reached 
the  first  flower  of  manhood.  And  when  he  understood 
that  the  king  was  quite  inexorable  toward  his  father, 
he  coaxed  his  grieving  parent  in  words  to  this  effect:     150 

"0  my  cherished  father,  hearken  to  my  words  favor- 
ably, and  do  thou  kindly  accept  my  suggestion  with 
ready  will.  For  I  know  full  well  that  thy  life  is  de- 
clining with  advancing  years  and  that  thy  sinews  are 
utterly  devoid  of  their  one-time  strength;  nor  art 
thou  able  to  bear  labors,  however  light;  but  I  shall 
still  prevail  by  reason  of  my  strength  of  limb  and  be 
able  to  submit  to  the  harsh  masters  for  a  season. 
Therefore  do  I  admonish  and  entreat  thee  with  per- 
suasive pleadings  to  pledge  me,  thy  cherished  son,  to 
the  king,  until  thou  shalt  be  able  to  pay  the  entire 
ransom ;  nor  do  thou  permit  thine  old  age  to  perish 
in  close-binding  fetters."  160 

-137- 


The  Pelogins 

At  senior  contra  dicebat  voce  severa: 
"Desine  tanta  loqui,  dulcissime,  desine,  fili, 
Ne  maerore  meos  ducas  in  tartara  canos. 
Nempe  salute  tua  pendet  tantum  mea  vita 
Et  sine  te  spatium  valeo,  pie,  vivere  nullum. 
Tu  decus  omne  meum,  tu  gloria  magna  parentum, 
Es  quoque  subiecti  nobis  spes  sola  popelli. 
Quapropter  patriam  praestat  me  linquere  caram 
170     Necnon  Hispaniam  vinctum  penetrare  superbam, 
Quam  te  grandaevae  vinclis  spem  tradere  vitae." 


Non  tulit  ergo  patrem  Pelagius  ista  loquentem, 
Sed  mulcet  dictis  mentem  cari  genitoris 
Et  cogit  blandis,  quod  suasit,  velle  loquelis. 
Consensit  precibus  tandem  genitor  venerandus 
Tradidit  et  natum,  semet  redimendo,  misellum. 
Tunc  rex  Pelagium  iussit  perducere  secum 
Et  laetus  rediit  patriam  victorque  revisit. 


Nullus  pro  meritis  credat  factum  fore  regis 
180     Hoc,  quod  tam  pulchra  vincebat  denique  pompa, 
Sed  mage  iudicio  secreti  iudicis  aequo, 
Ut  populus,  tanto  correptus  rite  flagello, 
Fleret  totius  proprii  commissa  reatus, 
Vel  quo  Pelagius,  Christi  pro  lege  necandus, 
Forte  locum  peteret,  quo  se  morti  dare  posset 
Necnon  sanguineum  pro  Christo  fundere  rivum, 
Inpendens  animam  Domino,  bene  morte  piatam. 


Postquam  rex  urbem  tetigit  saevus  locupletem, 
Portans  praeclarum  iusta  de  gente  triumphum, 
190     Ilicet  egregium  Christi  praecepit  amicum 

Carceris  in  tenebris  vinctum  submergere  nigras 
Deliciisque  cibo  nutritum  pascere  parvo. 


138 


The  Pelagius 

But  the  old  man  opposed  him  with  stern  voice: 
"Desist  from  speaking  such  words,  beloved  son,  de- 
sist! And  do  not  through  grief  lead  my  white  hairs 
into  the  region  of  death.  Indeed  upon  thy  well-being 
alone  doth  my  life  depend,  and  without  thee,  dear  son, 
I  would  be  able  to  live  not  even  one  day.  Thou  art  my 
whole  pride,  the  great  glory  of  thine  ancestors,  and 
thou  art,  moreover,  the  sole  hope  of  our  vanquished 
nation.  Therefore  it  behooveth  that  I  leave  my  dear 
fatherland  and  as  captive  enter  haughty  Spain,  rather 
than  that  I  deliver  up  to  chains  thee,  who  art  the  hope 
of  mine  advanced  years."  170 

But  Pelagius  would  not  allow  his  father  to  speak 
further  in  this  way,  and  by  endearing  words  he 
soothed  the  mind  of  his  cherished  parent  and  forced 
him  in  caressing  tones  to  yield  to  his  persuasions.  At 
length  the  venerable  old  man  agreed  to  these  pleadings 
and  delivered  up  his  poor  son  as  his  own  ransom.  The 
king  then  ordered  Pelagius  to  be  led  away  with  him 
and  exultingly  returned  to  his  own  country  and 
entered  it  victoriously. 

Let  no  one  believe  that  it  was  because  of  any  mer- 
its of  the  king  that  he  had  triumphed  amid  such  great 
splendor ;  but  rather  that  it  happened  through  the  just  180 
decree  of  the  Secret  Judge,  either  that  the  nation 
duly  chastised  with  so  heavy  a  scourge  might  weep 
over  the  sins  for  which  all  were  to  blame,  or  that 
Pelagius,  about  to  suffer  death  for  the  law  of  Christ, 
might  perchance  reach  a  place  wliere  he  would  be  able 
to  give  himself  to  death  and  to  shed  the  stream  of 
his  blood  for  Christ,  commending  to  the  Lord  his 
soul  made  holy  by  death. 

After  the  cruel  king  had  entered  his  wealthy  city, 
celebrating  a  brilliant  triumph  over  a  righteous  na- 
tion, he  forthwith  commanded  the  illustrious  friend  190 
of  Christ  to  be  bound  and  thrown  into  the  black  dark- 
ness of  a  prison,  and  there,  nourished  though  he  had 
been  upon  delicacies,  to  be  supplied  with  but  little  food. 

-139- 


The  Pelagius 

Corduba  namque  locum  sei-vat  sub  fornice  tetrum, 
Oblitum  lucis  consignatumque  tenebris, 
Maxima  qui  miseris  fertur  fore  causa  doloris. 
Illic  Pelagius  praepollens  pacis  alumnus 
Clauditur,  imperio  regis  cogente  nefando. 
Illic  ergo  viri  venerunt  sedulo  primi, 
Mulcendo  mentem  iuvenis  causa  pietatis. 
<Qui  cum  vidissent  vultum  capti  speciosum> 
200     Necnon  praedulcis  gustassent  ipsius  oris 

Verbula  rhetoricae  circumlita  melle  loquelae, 
Optabant  speciem  vinclis  absolvere  talem, 
Haec  et  suaserunt  regi  iam  sceptra  tenenti — 
Ipsum  felicis  certe  summum  caput  urbis 
Corruptum  vitiis  cognoscebant  Sodomitis 
Formosos  facie  iuvenes  ardenter  amare 
Hos  et  amicitiae  propriae  coniungere  velle; 
Huius  namque  rei  memores,  animo  miseranti 
Causa  Pelagii  suaserunt  talia  regi: 


210         "Non  decet  ergo  tuum,  princeps  fortissime,  sceptrum, 
Duriter  ut  puerum  mandes  punire  decorum 
Obsidis  et  teneros  insontis  stringere  nervos. 
Eius  praenitidam  velles  si  cernere  formam 
Et  tam  mellitam  saltem  gustare  loquelam, 
Quam  cuperes  iuvenem  tibimet  coniungere  talem 
Gradu  militiae  necnon  assumere  primae, 
Corpore  candidulo  tibi  quo  serviret  in  aula!" 


His  rex  mollitus  dictis,  hac  voce  coactus, 
lussit  Pelagium  nodis  evellere  duris 
220     Omneque  <cum>  lavacro  corpus  detergere  puro 
Lotaque  purpureo  circumdare  tegmine  membra, 
Collum  gemmatis  necnon  ornare  metallis, 
Quo  bene  constructa  posset  fore  miles  in  aula. 
Caesaris  imperio  tunc  haec  urgente  superbo 

-140- 


The  Pelagius 

Alas,  Cordova  has  a  noisome  place  beneath  a  vault, 
forgetful  of  light  and  made  over  to  darkness,  a  place 
which,  they  say,  occasions  intense  suffering  to  poor 
captives.  Here  Pelagius,  the  distinguished  child  of 
peace,  was  confined  upon  the  urgent  and  wicked  com- 
mand of  the  king.  Hither  came  the  principal  men  in 
zealous  haste,  moved  by  kindness  to  soothe  the  heart  200 
of  the  imprisoned  youth.  And  when  they  had  seen 
the  comely  countenance  of  the  captive  and  had 
relished  the  words  from  his  sweet  lips,  words  tinged 
with  the  honey  of  studied  utterance,  they  longed  to 
free  such  a  handsome  youth  from  chains,  and  to  this 
they  urged  the  king,  holding  the  sceptre  at  that  time. 
For  well  they  knew  that  the  supreme  lord  of  that 
prosperous  city  was  tainted  with  vice,  and  that  he 
ardently  loved  youths,  of  handsome  appearance  and 
desired  to  join  them  to  friendship  with  himself.  There- 
fore mindful  of  this  fact  and  commiserating  in  their 
hearts  the  lot  of  Pelagius,  they  pleaded  with  the  king 
in  this  manner : 

"It  is  not  becoming  to  thy  rule,  most  brave  king,  210 
that  harshly  thou  dost  command  a  handsome  youth  to 
be  punished  and  the  tender  limbs  of  a  guiltless  hostage 
to  be  fettered.  If  thou  wouldst  but  see  his  singular 
comeliness  and  but  relish  his  honeyed  words,  how 
wouldst  thou  desire  to  associate  such  a  youth  in  thy 
service  and  enlist  him  in  the  first  stage  of  military 
rank,  so  that,  comely  as  he  is,  he  might  wait  upon  thee 
in  the  palace !" 

The  king,  appeased  by  these  words  and  roused  by 
this  plea,  ordered  Pelagius  to  be  freed  of  his  cruel 
bonds,  and  after  he  had  bathed  well  in  cleansing  220 
waters,  be,  thus  refreshed,  clad  in  rich  garments  and 
to  have  his  throat  adorned  with  a  jeweled  necklace, 
that  thus  he  might  be  able  to  be  a  page  in  that  stately 
court.  And  when  the  haughty  command  of  Caesar  had 
spoken  to  this  effect,  the  martyr  was  at  once  led  forth 

-141- 


The  Pelagius 

Extimplo  nigris  martir  producitur  antris 
Sistitur  atque  toga  regali  comptus  in  aula. 
Cumque  palatinis  medius  foret  ille  locatus, 
Vincebat  socios  vultus  splendore  togatos. 
In  quern  conversis  omnes  mirantur  ocellis 
230     Turn  faciem  iuvenis,  turn  dulcia  verbula  fantis. 
Aspectu  primo  quoque  rex  suspensus  in  illo 
Ardebat  formam  regalis  stirpis  amandam. 
Tandem  Pelagium  nimium  mandavit  amandum 
In  solio  regni  secum  iam  forte  locari, 
Ignis  ut  ipsius  fieret  sibi  sedulo  iunctus; 
Fronteque  summisso  libaverat  oscula  caro 
Affectus  causa,  complectens  utpote  colla. 


Non  patitur  talem  Christi  nam  miles  amorem 
Regis  pagani  luxu  carnis  maculati, 
240     Aurem  regali  ludens  sed  contulit  ori 
Magno  ridiculo  divertens  ora  negata, 
Fatus  et  egregio  dicebat  talia  rostro: 
"Non  decet  ergo  virum  Christi  baptismate  lotum 
Sobria  barbarico  complexu  subdere  colla, 
Sed  nee  christicolam  sacrato  crismate  tinctum 
Daemonis  oscillum  spurci  captare  famelli. 
Ergo  corde  viros  licito  complectere  stultos, 
Qui  tecum  fatuos  placantur  caespite  divos; 
Sintque  tibi  socii,  servi  qui  sunt  simulacri." 

250         Sed  rex  econtra,  nulla  commotior  ira, 

Molliter  ephebum  dicens  mulcebat  amandum : 
"0  lascive  puer,  iactas  te  posse  licenter 
Spernere  tam  mitem  nostri  iuris  pietatem 
Audacterque  diis  toties  illudere  nostris; 
Nee  movet  aetatis  praesens  dampnum  iuvenilis 
Et  quod  maerentes  orbabis  forte  parentes? 
Nostri  blasphemos  urget  cultus  cruciandos 
Subdere  mox  morti  ferro  iugulosque  forari. 


142 


The  Pelagius 

from  his  black  dungeon  and,  clad  in  a  toga,  was  given 
a  place  in  the  royal  court. 

Now  when  he  stood  in  the  midst  of  the  courtiers, 
his  appearance  surpassed  in  splendor  that  of  all  his 
togaed  companions.  Toward  him  all  directed  their 
gaze,  at  one  time  admiring  his  countenance,  at  another, 
the  charming  utterance  of  his  lips.  The  king  also,  230 
attracted  to  him  at  first  sight,  was  passionately  in- 
flamed by  the  amiable  beauty  of  that  royal  youth.  At 
length  he  ordered  that  Pelagius,  for  whom  he  enter- 
tained such  an  excessive  infatuation,  be  now  placed  on 
the  throne  of  the  realm  with  him,  so  that  he  might 
give  expression  to  his  affection.  And  then  he  sought 
in  his  frenzy  to  bend  his  head  and  to  kiss  the  youth 
he  loved,  embracing  him  the  while. 

But  the  soldier  of  Christ  would  not  endure  such 
advances  from  a  pagan  king  tainted  with  the  lust  of 
the  flesh,  but  he  playfully  turned  his  ear  to  the  royal  240 
mouth,  withdrawing  amid  great  mirth  his  lips ;  mean- 
while his  fair  mouth  fashioned  words  to  this  effect: 
"It  is  not  meet  that  a  man  cleansed  in  the  Baptism  of 
Christ  submit  his  chaste  neck  to  a  barbarous  embrace, 
nor  should  a  worshiper  of  Christ  who  has  been  anoint- 
ed with  sacred  Chrism  court  the  kiss  of  a  lewd  slave 
of  the  demon.  Therefore  do  thou,  with  heart  un- 
restrained, embrace  those  ignorant  men  who  with  thee 
attempt  to  appease  stupid  gods  of  clay;  let  those  be 
thy  companions,  who  are  servants  of  an  idol." 

But  the  king  on  the  other  hand  was  not  moved  to  250 
anger,  and  with  gentle  words  he  attempted  to  calm  the 
beloved  youth :  "0  thou  frivolous  boy !  Thou  boastest 
that  thou  canst  rightly  despise  the  tender  affection  of 
our  authority  and  frequently  and  boldly  ridicule  our 
gods ;  does  not  immediate  loss  of  thy  young  life  move 
thee,  and  the  fact  that  perchance  thou  wilt  bereave  thy 
grieving  parents?  It  is  imperative  that  we  torture 
blasphemers  of  our  cult  and  then  subject  them  to 
death,  piercing  their  throats  with  the  sword,  unless 

- 143  - 


The  PelagiiLS 

Ni  cedant  et  blasphemam  respuant  rationem. 

260     Hortatu  moneo  quapropter  quippe  patemo, 
Talibus  ut  verbis  parcas  saevae  rationis 
Et  mecum  stabilem  conportes  mentis  amorem 
Nee  temptes  nostrum  post  haec  offendere  iussum, 
Magno  sed  studio  serves  mea  dicta  sequenda; 
Te  quia  corde  colo  necnon  venerarier  opto 
Tanto  prae  cunctis  aulae  splendore  ministris, 
Alter  ut  in  regno  sis,  me  praestante,  superbo." 
Haec  ait,  et  dextra  compressis  martiris  ora, 
Astrictim  laeva  complectens  colla  sacrata, 

270     Quo  sic  oscillum  saltem  configeret  unum. 
Callida  sed  testis  confudit  ludicra  regis 
Osque  petit  subito  pugno  regali  vibrato 
Intulit  et  tantum  pronis  obtutibus  ictum. 
Sanguis  ut  absque  mora  stillans  de  vulnere  facto 
Barbam  foedavit  necnon  vestes  madefecit. 


Tunc  rex,  non  modicam  tristis  conversus  in  iram, 
lussit  Pelagium,  caelestis  regis  alumnum. 
Trans  muros  proici  iactum  funda  machinali, 
Crebro  bellantes  saxis  quae  perfodit  hostes, 
280     Nobilis  ut  testis,  fluvii  collisus  harenis, 

Urbem  qui  vasta  proprius  circumfluit  unda, 
Membratim  creperet  raptim  fractusque  periret. 
Talia  iactanti  parebant  forte  ministri, 
Mox  et  inauditam  strucxerunt  denique  poenam, 
Funda  Pelagium  iacientes  martirizandum 
Urbis  famosae  trans  maxima  moenia  longe. 
Sed,  licet  ingentes  obstantes  undique  rupes 
Artarent  testis  corpus  praedulce  cadentis, 
Attamen  illaesus  Christi  permansit  amicus. 


290         Certe  regales  citius  pervenit  ad  aures, 
Martiris  allisi  corpus  non  posse  secari, 

-144- 


The  Pelagiics 

they  yield  and  reject  their  blasphemous  attitude. 
Therefore  do  I  advise  thee  with  paternal  admonition  to 
be  chary  of  such  words  of  a  spirit  unsubdued  and  to 
share  with  me  a  constant  affection  of  heart,  and  not 
to  dare  hereafter  to  break  our  command,  but  with 
great  readiness  to  observe  my  utterances  which  must 
needs  be  obeyed.  For  thee  I  cherish  in  my  heart,  and 
thee  do  I  prefer  to  honor  with  such  distinction  before 
all  the  attendants  of  the  court,  that,  myself  predom- 
inating, thou  mayest  be  second  to  me  in  this  proud 
kingdom." 

This  he  said,  and  with  his  right  hand  he  held  firmly 
the  face  of  the  martyr,  embracing  with  his  left  that 
hallowed  neck,  that  thus  he  might  imprint  at  least  one  270 
kiss.  But  the  martyr  confounded  the  crafty  pleasantry 
of  the  king  and  speedily  directed  against  the  royal 
countenance  a  swinging  fist,  dealing  such  a  blow  to 
that  downturned  face  that  the  blood,  flowing  forth- 
with from  the  resultant  wound,  polluted  his  beard  and 
bedewed  even  his  garments. 

Then  the  monarch,  grimly  moved  to  no  little  wrath, 
commanded  that  Pelagius,  the  child  of  the  heavenly 
King,  be  hurled  bodily  over  the  walls  from  an  engine 
which  frequently  showered  with  stones  embattled  foe- 
men,  in  order  that  the  noble  champion  being  dashed  280 
upon  the  sands  of  the  stream,  which  with  its  mighty 
waters  flowed  about  the  city,  might  be  shattered  in 
every  member  and  thus  broken,  straightway  perish. 
And  his  henchmen  obeyed  the  king  as  he  shouted  these 
commands,  and  presently  fashioned  a  penalty  hitherto 
unheard  of,  hurling  Pelagius  from  a  sling  to  martyr- 
dom, far  across  the  towering  walls  of  that  accursed 
city.  But  even  though  everywhere  immense  rocks 
hedged  in  the  cherished  body  of  that  champion  as  he 
fell,  nevertheless  the  friend  of  Christ  remained  un- 
harmed. 

It  of  course  came  quickly  to  the  royal  ears  that  the     290 
body  of  the  martyr,  which  he  had  ordered  impaled 

-145- 


The  Pelagius 

Infigi  scopolis  ripae  quod  iussit  acutis. 
Hinc  magis  offensiis,  penitus  fuerat  quia  victus, 
Mox  caput  exacto  iussit  succidere  ferro 
Et  sententiolam  sic  exercere  supremam. 
Denique  lictores  regalia  iussa  trementes 
Mox  Christi  testem  gladio  secuere  fidelem 
Funus  et  extinctum  limphis  credunt  retinendum. 


Nam  miles  regis  prostrata  morte  perennis 
300     Victor  stelligeri  volitat  per  sidera  caeli 

Caelitus  angelicis  deductus  suaviter  hymnis, 
ludicis  et  veri,  caeli  super  astra  locati, 
E  dextra  nitidam  suscepit  congrue  palmam 
Pro  nece  martirii  laudando  fine  peracti. 
Sed  nee  ferventis  bravio  fraudatur  amoris, 
Quo  semet  vinclis  pro  vita  denique  patris 
Inpendit,  patriam  linquens  gentemque  subactam. 
Tandem  nulla  piis  potis  est  depromere  verbis 
Lingula  laureolam  caelesti  luce  coruscam, 
310     Qua  bene  servata  fulget  pro  virginitate, 
Adiunctus  turmis  caelesti  sede  receptis, 
Agno  cantamen  modulando  perenniter.     Amen. 


Postquam  lictores  regis  decreta  sequentes 
Funeris  exuvias  extincti  sat  generosas 
Limpharum  gremio  credunt  in  saxaque  figunt, 
Ut  sacri  tumulo  cineres  essent  sine  digno, 
Christus,  qui   proprios   patitur  non   perdere  sanctos 
Praeclari  modicum  capitis  vel  forte  capillum, 
Non  tulit  in  limpha  testem  remanere  fidelem, 
320     Illi  sed  dignum  provisit  rite  locellum, 

Qui  sancti  tumulo  servaret  membra  sacrata. 

Nam  piscatores,  limphas  remis  resecantes 
Fluctivagosque  greges  variis  laqueis  capientes, 

-146- 


The  Pelagius 

upon  the  sharp  rocks  of  the  river  bank,  could  not  be 
shattered  though  dashed  against  them.  Thereat  the 
more  enraged,  because  he  had  been  utterly  foiled,  the 
king  at  once  ordered  the  head  to  be  cut  off  with  drawn 
sword,  that  thus  the  supreme  sentence  might  be  car- 
ried out.  Finally  the  executioners,  trembling  at  the 
king's  orders,  dispatched  the  faithful  champion  of 
Christ  with  the  sword  and  consigned  the  dead  body  to 
the  keeping  of  the  waters. 

Yet  the  soldier  of  the  King,  forever  victorious  over 
death,  which  he  had  conquered,  soared  aloft  through 
the  constellations  of  the  star-bearing  heaven,  being 
delightfully  borne  aloft  amid  sweet  angelic  hymns;  300 
and  from  the  right  Hand  of  the  true  Judge,  Whose 
throne  is  above  the  stars  of  heaven,  he  duly  received 
the  resplendent  palm  in  return  for  death  by  martyr- 
dom achieved  through  a  praiseworthy  ending  of  life. 
Nor  was  he  defrauded  of  the  crown  of  that  ardent 
love  by  reason  of  which  he  languished  in  chains  for 
the  life  of  his  father,  forsaking  his  native  land  and  his 
conquered  folk.  Indeed,  no  tongue  is  able  to  describe 
in  pious  words  that  laurel  gleaming  with  celestial 
radiance  with  which  he  is  resplendent  for  his  chastity  310 
so  well  preserved,  united  as  he  is  to  the  throng  re- 
ceived into  the  heavenly  home  to  sing  perpetually 
melodies  to  the  Lamb.    Amen. 

After  the  executioners  following  the  orders  of  the 
king  had  duly  confided  the  noble  remains  of  the  dead 
to  the  bosom  of  the  stream  and  had  lodged  them 
among  the  rocks  therein,  that  thus  the  precious  relics 
might  be  without  a  worthy  sepulchre,  Christ,  Who 
does  not  allow  His  own  holy  ones  to  lose  perchance  the 
smallest  hair  from  their  distinguished  heads,  did  not 
suffer  His  faithful  witness  to  remain  in  the  stream  but 
duly  provided  for  him  a  spot  worthy  to  preserve  the 
sacred  limbs  of  the  saint  in  a  tomb.  320 

For  it  chanced  that  fishermen,  cutting  the  waves 
with  their  oars  and  catching  in  varied  nets  the  wave- 

-147- 


The  Pelagius 

Litoris  extrema  viderunt  corpus  in  hora 
Inter  grandisonas  agitari  martiris  undas. 
Eminus  hoc  cautis  cernentes  nempe  pupillis, 
Illic  vela  dabant  citius  corpusque  levabant. 
Nee  iam  personae  noscunt  formam  venerandae, 
Illita  purpureo  fuerant  quia  sanguine  membra 
330     Et  caput  egregium  iacuit  procul  amne  revulsum. 

Sed  tamen  hoc  sapiunt  prompt©  quoque  pectore  credunt, 
Quod  hie,  quisquis  erat,  Christi  pro  lege  cadebat, 
Illic  hi  soli  quia  damnantur  capitali 
Poenae  qui  sacra  tincti  baptismatis  unda 
Non  metuunt  crebro  regis  reprehendere  sacra. 


Cumque  caput  nanciscentes  colloque  locantes 
Pelagii  faciem  cognoverunt  rutilantem, 
Rumpunt  in  tales  miseranti  pectore  voces: 
"Heu,  iacet  exanimis  propriae  spes  unica  gentis, 
340     Atque  decus  patriae  tumuli  sine  sordet  honore! 
Nonne  satis  multis  scimus  nos  vendere  seclis 
Semper  sanctorum  corpuscula  passa  virorum, 
Quos  capitis  caedes  monstraverat  esse  fideles? 
Et  quis  laudabilis  dubitet  corpus  fore  testis, 
Quod  truncum  misere  capitis  iacet  absque  decore?" 


Haec  ubi  dicta  dabant,  navi  pia  membra  locabant 
Et  citius  versis  remigabant  denique  velis 
Famosae  cunctis  ad  portam  gentibus  urbis. 
Hie  quoque  subducta  iam  processere  carina 
350     Et  clam  coenobium  Christo  petiere  sacratum 
Intra  non  modicos  urbis  venerabile  muros, 
Portantes  pretio  vendendum  denique  magno 
Extinctum  testis  funus  venerabile  terris. 
Quod  gaudens  hymnis  suscepit  turba  fidelis 
Suavibus,  exequias  celebrans  de  more  sacratas, 
Largiter  et  pretium  nautis  tribuit  superauctum, 
Ardescens  sancti  mercari  corpus  amandi. 

-148- 


The  Pelagius 

wandering  herds,  saw  on  a  distant  spot  of  the  river's 
bank  the  body  of  the  martyr  tossing  to  and  fro  amid 
the  loud-sounding  waves.  Discerning  this  from  a  dis- 
tance with  cautious  eyes,  they  speedily  set  sail  thither 
and  raised  the  body.  Nor  did  they  recognize  the  beauty 
of  the  revered  personage  because  the  limbs  were  cov- 
ered with  crimson  blood,  and  the  noble  head  was  lying 
at  a  distance  tossed  by  the  stream.  But  this  they  un- 
derstood and  believed  with  ready  heart,  that  he,  who- 
ever he  was,  had  perished  for  the  law  of  Christ,  be- 
cause in  this  region  those  alone  received  capital  pun- 
ishment who,  washed  in  the  sacred  font  of  Baptism, 
did  not  fear  steadfastly  to  condemn  the  rites  of  the 
monarch. 

And  when,  recovering  the  head  and  replacing  it  on 
the  shoulders,  they  recognized  the  comely  countenance 
of  Pelagius,  they  with  pitying  hearts  broke  forth  in 
plaints  like  unto  these:  "Alas,  the  sole  hope  of  his 
own  nation  lies  here  lifeless,  and  the  glory  of  his 
country  wastes  without  the  distinction  of  a  tomb.  Do 
we  not  know  well  to  sell  always  for  shekles  sufficiently  340 
many  the  lifeless  remains  of  holy  men,  the  loss  of 
whose  head  shows  them  to  be  Christians?  And  who 
would  doubt  that  this  body  is  that  of  a  praiseworthy 
champion,  since  the  trunk  lies  wretchedly  bereft  of  the 
glory  of  the  head?" 

While  they  were  saying  these  words,  they  placed 
those  holy  remains  in  the  skiff,  and  swiftly  turning 
sail,  they  made  their  way  to  the  dock  of  that  city  well 
known  to  all  nations.  Here,  hauling  their  skiff  upon 
land,  they  presently  made  their  way  and  sought  secret- 
ly the  venerable  monastery  dedicated  to  Christ  within 
the  towering  walls  of  that  city,  bearing  the  remains  350 
of  that  champion,  now  honored  in  all  lands,  in  order 
that  they  might  sell  them  at  a  great  price.  These  the 
Christian  congregation  amid  rejoicing  received  while 
singing  sweet  hymns,  celebrating  the  sacred  funeral 
rites  according  to  custom   and   bestowing  upon  the 

-149- 


The  Pelagius 

Quo  nam  mercato  pretii  non  munere  pauco 
Eligitur  tellus  membris  locuples  retinendis, 
360     In  qua,  suprema  busto  pompa  reparato, 

Glebae  sub  cumulo  conduntur  fragmina  sacra. 
Quae  mox  stelligerae  regnator  maximus  aulae 
In  tumulo  signis  iussit  fulgere  coruscis, 
In  caelis  anima  satis  ut  regnante  beata 
Aequa  gloriola  regnarent  mortua  membra. 


Denique  collectus  cernens  ex  urbe  popellus, 
Non  pauco  variis  obsessos  tempore  morbis 
Mundatis  illic  foedis  putredine  membris 
Salvari  gratis,  nulla  mercede  salutis, 

370     Nam  rudem  meriti  sanctum  titubat  fore  tanti, 
Illius  ut  causa  fierent  miracula  tanta. 
Tandem  coenobii  princeps  rectorque  popelli, 
Optima  consilii  tractans  medicamina  sani, 
Sensit  celsithronum  devota  mente  praecandum. 
Quo  iam  dignanter  solita  pietate  patenter 
Detegeret  dubio  causae  secreta  remoto. 
Quod  mox  personae  sexus  optant  utriusque, 
Parcius  atque  tribus  satiatae  sponte  diebus 
Dulcibus  instabant  hymnis  precibus  quoque  sacris. 

380     His  certe  votis  devota  mente  peractis, 
Mitem  mollitum  regem  sensere  polorum 
Esse  suis  preculis  studioso  murmure  fusis 
Necnon  iudicio  dubiae  pronum  fore  causae. 
Et  cito  fornacem  cogunt  fervere  minacem, 
Ignibus  appositis  toto  conamine  structis. 


Cumque  focus  gremio  fureret  fornacis  in  amplo, 
Mox  caput  abscisum  Christi  sumpsere  famelli, 
Talia  blandiloquis  palpantes  verbula  Unguis: 

-150- 


The  Pekigius 

sailors  bountifully  a  price  much  augmented,  so  eager 
were  they  to  purchase  the  body  of  the  beloved  saint. 
And  after  they  had  bought  it  at  no  slight  price,  a 
charming  spot  was  chosen  for  the  keeping  of  those 
bones,  in  which  spot,  after  the  funeral  rites  had  been  360 
performed  with  ample  ceremonial,  the  sacred  relics 
were  buried  beneath  a  mound  of  earth.  And  these  re- 
mains the  Great  Ruler  of  the  star-bearing  vault 
ordered  to  become  renowned  through  wondrous  signs 
at  the  grave,  in  order  that,  as  the  blessed  soul  was  now 
duly  reigning  in  heaven,  the  mortal  limbs  might  reign 
with  equal  glory. 

Finally  the  people  of  the  city  gathered,  perceiving 
that  those  afflicted  for  a  long  time  with  various  dis- 
eases were  here  freely  cured  and  their  loathsome  mem- 
bers cleansed  of  their  foulness,  with  no  payment  for 
their  healing;  for  they  were  in  wonder  that  the  un- 
known saint  was  of  such  sanctity  that  such  marvels  370 
happened  on  his  account. 

Then  at  length  the  head  of  the  monastery  and  pastor 
of  the  people,  pondering  over  the  excellent  remedy  of 
sane  counsel,  realized  that  the  Most  High  must  be  in- 
voked with  a  devout  mind,  in  order  that,  with  His 
wonted  Goodness,  He  might  deign  to  reveal  publicly 
the  secret  cause  and  thus  remove  all  doubt.  This 
immediately  persons  of  both  sexes  desired,  and,  par- 
taking but  meagerly  of  food  on  their  own  accord  for 
three  days,  they  were  instant  with  sweet  hymns  and 
devout  supplication.  These  prayers  were  truly  per-  380 
formed  with  a  devout  mind,  and  they  realized  that 
the  meek  King  of  heaven  had  been  mitigated  by  their 
prayers  poured  out  in  fervent  pleadings,  and  that  He 
was  inclined  to  a  decision  of  the  doubtful  cause.  And 
at  once  they  caused  a  menacing  furnace  to  be  heated, 
heaping  up  the  fire  with  united  efforts. 

While  the  fire  was  raging  in  the  liuge  bosom  of  that 
furnace,  they  took  the  severed  head  of  the  servant  of 
Christ,  caressingly  speaking  such  words  in  persuasive 

-  151  - 


The  Pelagius 

"Rex  pie,  sidereae  dominator  nobilis  aulae, 
390     Omnia  iudicio  qui  scis  discernere  iusto, 
Istius  meritum  sancti  f ac  igne  probari : 
Et,  si  sit  tantae  fultus  bonitatis  honore, 
Eius  ut  ex  mentis  fierent  haec  dona  salutis, 
Frontis  pelliculam  facito  non  tangere  flammam 
Verticis  illaesos  omnes  quoque  redde  capillos; 
Sin  vero  meriti  constet  fortasse  minoris, 
Manda  pro  signo  saltim  laedi  cute  summa 
luxta  naturam  fragilis  carnis  perituram." 
Talia  dicentes,  clarum  caput  igne  probandum 
400     Credunt  flammivomis  alte  surgentibus  undis; 
Et  tandem  plenae  spatium  post  unius  horae 
Hoc  ipsum  rapidis  extollunt  denique  flammis, 
Lustrantes  oculis,  damnum  ferretne  caloris, 
Quod  iam  splendidius  puro  radiaverat  auro, 
Expers  ardoris  penitus  tantique  caloris. 
Hinc  sursum  versis  laudavit  turba  fidelis 
Vultibus  altithronum  modulanti  carmine  Christum, 
Qui  toties  tantis  fecit  splendescere  signis 
Fragmina  constantis  pro  sese  mortua  testis; 


410     Haec  et  mausoleo  digne  condens  venerando, 
Digno  percerte  supplex  veneratur  honore, 
Finetenus  meriti  vulgo  bene  credula  noti 
CaeHtus  atque  dati  semper  gavisa  patroni. 


152 


The  Pelagius 

strains:  "0  gentle  King,  noble  Ruler  of  the  starry- 
court,  Thou  Who  knowest  how  to  decide  all  things  390 
in  equable  judgment,  cause  the  merits  of  this  saint  to 
be  tested  by  fire.  And  if  he  be  supported  by  the  honor 
of  such  goodness  that  these  gifts  of  cures  take  place 
because  of  his  merits,  grant  that  the  flame  touch  not 
the  skin  of  his  face,  and  grant  also  that  all  the  hairs 
of  his  head  be  unharmed.  But  if  it  chance  that  he  be 
of  lesser  merit,  command  that  as  a  sign  he  be  injured 
at  least  upon  the  outer  skin  of  his  face,  according  to 
the  nature  of  frail  flesh  that  must  perish."  Saying 
these  words  they  entrusted  that  distinguished  head  for 
approval  by  fire  to  the  high-surging,  flame-spewing 
sea.  And  at  length  after  the  space  of  one  full  hour,  400 
they  drew  it  finally  from  the  consuming  flames,  exam- 
ining with  the  eyes  whether  it  had  any  injury  from 
the  heat.  But  the  head  gleamed  forth  now  more  re- 
splendently  than  pure  gold,  utterly  unmarred  as  it 
was  by  the  heat  and  the  mighty  flames. 

Then  the  Christian  congregation  with  faces  turned 
heavenward,  praised  in  sweet  melody  Christ  reigning 
on  high.  Who  so  often  made  to  be  resplendent  with 
mighty  signs  the  mortal  relics  of  the  steadfast  cham- 
pion of  His  cause. 

These  relics  they  now  worthily  consigned  to  a  ven-     410 
erated  sepulchre,  and  they  humbly  honored  them  with 
truly  worthy  respect;     and  ever  after  all  firmly  be- 
lieved in  his  renowned  merit  and  rejoiced  ceaselessly 
in  the  patron  given  them  by  heaven. 


NOTES  ON  THE  PELAGIUS 

There  is  extant  a  Spanish  'Vita,'  Florcz-Espana  sagrada,  To.  23, 
which  differs  somewhat  from  the  version  of  Pclngms  by  Hrosvitha. 
The  discrepancy  might  be  due  to  the  fact  that  her  subject  matter, 
as  she  herself  admits,  was  obtained  from  an  eye-witness  and  not  hke 
the  other  'Vita'  from  extant  sources. 

In  the  Spanish  'Vita,'  Pelagius  is  not  the  son  of  a  noble,  but  rather 
the  nephew  of  Hermogius,  Bishop  of  Tuy  in  Galicia.     Here  too  he 

-  153  - 


The  Pelagius 

was  taken  as  hostage  when  but  ten  years  of  age  and  martyred  at 
thirteen  or  fourteen.  With  Hrosvitha  he  seemed  to  be  of  this  age 
when  taken  as  hostage. 

Again,  in  the  Spanish  'Vita'  the  saint  is  dismembered  with  the 
sword,  and  his  mangled  form  is  thrown  into  the  stream;  in  Hros- 
vitha's  account  it  is  commanded  that  he  be  thrown  from  a  catapult 
and  be  dashed  to  pieces  on  the  rocks  of  the  stream. 

The  battle  in  which  Hermogius  was  taken  prisoner  was  historically 
that  of  Junquera  near  Pampelona,  in  921,  in  a  war  with  Abderhamen 
who  was  fighting  against  the  kingdoms  of  Navarre  and  Leon. 
Hermogius  and  his  nephew  were  subjects  of  the  king  of  Leon  and  thus 
fell  into  the  hands  of  Abderhamen. 

History  tells  us  further  that  Otto  I  carried  on  trade  relations 
with  the  caliphs  of  Cordova;  it  was  thus  possible  for  Hrosvitha  to 
get  her  information  from  an  actual  eyewitness  of  the  event. 

Her  version  is  found  in  the  Act.  Sand.  June,  To.  5.204.  Because 
of  the  manner  in  which  she  obtained  her  information,  namely 
by  direct  contact  with  one  who  had  witnessed  the  event,  Hrosvitha 
could  indulge  her  imagination  and  poetic  powers  quite  freely,  which 
fact  is  evidenced  in  her  work.  Many  imitators  of  Hrosvitha  found 
inspiration  in  her  theme  and  style. 

Title:  in  Corduba:  more  correctly  without  in,  and  as  a  locative. 
3.         Another  personal  allusion  to  the  author. 

miti  pietate:  like  devota  mente  of  verse  4  and  pectore  prono  of 
verse  5,  may  qualify  the  nearest  noun  as  a  descriptive  abl.  or 
its  verb. 

6.  supero  de  rore:    de  emphasizes  the  idea  of  supero;     compare 
also  Mar.  38. 

7.  mis:  the  obsolete  gen.  for  mei;  compare  note  to  Asc.  48. 
10.       cum  morte:  abl.  of  means  with  cum. 

12.  partibus  occiduis:  compare  Diony.  116,  141;  also  Ekkh.,  Walth. 
286. 

13.  urbs  augusta:    compare  Prud.,  Perist.  11.199. 

14.  Hispania:  second  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

15.  de  nomine  dicta:  as  we  would  say,  "called  by  the  name." 

17.       septeno  fonte:  that  is,  trivio  et  quadrivio;  compare  Theoph.  13. 

25.       huisce:  compare  note  to  Theoph.  70. 

27.       baptismate  lotum:  compare  verse  243;  Diony.  202;     Agn.  135; 

see  also  note  to  Asc.  27. 
29.       quot:  for  tot;  compare  Dji  Cange,  sub  verbo  "quot."    Perhaps 

quot   tempora  is   a   nominativus  pendens;     see   Stolz-Schmalz, 

p.  450;  Antibarbarus,  sub  verbo  "quot." 

iustis  frenis:    compare  verses  19  (Christo  lusto)  and  39  (iustis 

colonis)  for  varied  meanings  of  iustus. 
37.       veterem,  genetricem:    figurative  for  the  city  itself. 

-154- 


The  Pelagius 

40.  sibi:  here   for   eis,   though   secum  in   verse   41    appears   to   be 
genuinely  reflexive. 

41.  deque:  for  the  use  of  de  see  verses  6  and  31. 

46.  quo  rex  comperto:  compare  verse  97. 
absque  damno:  for  sine  damno. 

sui:  subjective  gen.  of  reflexive  pronoun  for  the  more  common 
suo. 

47.  praedivitis  iirbis:  compare  verse  102;  Juvenc.  10.16;  Ovid,  Met. 
9.91. 

57.       His  ita  digestis:  compare  note  to  Mar.  659. 

66.  ture  Sabaeo:     thus  Verg.,  Aen.  1.416,  "centumque  Sabaeo  ture 
calent  arae." 

67.  denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 

68.  animae  lotae:  compare  Gong.  481. 

75.       Christicolis :  thus  Verg.,  Aen.  2.641;  6.554,  787,  uses  caelicolis. 
79.      fidelem:  evidently  "Christian";    compare  verses  53  and  62. 

85.  se  iactat  in  aula:  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  1.140,  "ilia  se  iactat  in 
aula  Aeolus." 

87.       fore:  future  in  sense;     so  too  dare  in  verse  88. 

86.  denique:  compare  note  to  verse  67. 
degere:  penult  long;     metri  causa. 

92.       inde:  either  temporal  (deinde)  or  local  with  remotis. 
97.       quo  rex  comperto:    compare  verse  46. 

101.  nempe:  m,etri  explendi  causa, 
proceres  heriles:  compare  Mar.  686. 

102.  praedivitis  urbis:  compare  verse  47. 

103.  pestifero  rostro:  compare  Gong.  567. 
talia  verbula:  not  diminutive;  metri  causa. 

109.  ingrati  pietatis:  ingrati  with   the   gen.;    compare   Verg.,   Aen. 
10.666. 

110.  quippe:  metri  explendi  causa. 

112.     ex  nostris  telis:  abl.  of  means  with  a  preposition;     ex  and  de 

are  often  used  so  in  Hrosvitha. 
114.     postquam:  note  the  usage  with  the  present  and  imperfect 
116.     denique:   note  the   frequency  with   which   Hrosvitha   uses   this 

particle  metri  explendi  causa. 
121.     denique:  compare  verse  116. 

124.  tit  illaqueat .  .  .  .strigitqiie:  indicative  after  ut,  consecutive;     a 
late  Latin  usage;  see  Stolz-Schmalz,  p.  760. 

125.  dampnis:  compare  note  to  Mar.  41. 

130.     popelli:  for  populi;  see  note  on  Mar.  550. 

144.     corpore:  abl.  of  specification. 

146.     tota:  here  for  omni;  so  frequently  in  mediaeval  Latin;     compare 

note  to  Gong.  555. 
162.     dicebat:  imperfect  for  perfect. 

-  155  - 


The  Pelagiiis 

164.  nc  maerore  meos  duces  in  tartara  canos:  compare  these  words 
with  those  of  the  patriarch  Jacob,  Gen.  44.29,  "adducitis  canos 
meos  cum  maerore  ad  inferos." 

177.  iussit  perducere:  inhere  without  accusative;  poetic  and  post- 
Augustan  prose  construction;    compare  Verg.,  Eel.  6.85. 

178.  laetus  rediit  patriam:  compare  Mar.  658;  also  Ekkh.,  Walth. 
94-95. 

179.  Compare  also  Gong.  141. 

184.     Christi  pro  lege  necandus:  compare  verse  332. 
191.     carceris  in  tenebras  submergere :  for  parallel  expression  com- 
pare Diony.  166. 
193.     locum  sub  fornice  tetrum:  compare  Prud.,  Perist.  5.241. 

195.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Agn.  117,  314. 

196.  Note  the  alliteration. 

198.  sedulo:  the  last  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

199.  Celtes,  the  biographer  and  publisher  of  Hrosvitha  inserted  this 
line  after  verse  199:  "Qui  cum  vidissent  vultum  capti  specio- 
sum;"  this  insertion  would  account  for  the  subjunctive  in  the 
following  verse.  Other  critics,  however,  ignore  a  lacuna  at  this 
place. 

211.  duriter:  for  dure;  early  Latin  has  many  instances  of  -iter  for 
-e  adverbs. 

ma7ides:  construed  with  the  infinitive  without  subject  accusa- 
tive; compare  iussit  perducere,  verse  177,  and  note  ad  locum. 

223.     fore:  that  is,  esse;  compare  Intro,  xxi. 

230.  iuvenis,  fantis:  perhaps  each  of  these  words  is  to  be  taken 
with  both  faciem  and  with  verbula. 

237.     utpote:  metri  explendi  causa. 

241.  magna  ridiculo:  note  the  substantive  use  of  the  adjective;  com- 
pare Ter.,  Eun.  244. 

242.  egregio  rostro :  compare  Gong.  266;  there,  as  here,  rostrum 
implies  no  contempt,  whereas  in  Gong.  566  it  does  imply  con- 
tempt. 

243.  vimm  baptismate  lotum:  compare  verse  27. 

244.  complexu  subdere  colla:  subdere  governs  an  ace.  and  a  dat. ; 
perhaps  complexu  is  a  variant  form  for  the  dat.  complexui. 

248.     placantur:  used  deponently. 

250.  commotior:  comparative  with  positive  force;  compare  Agn. 
206. 

251.  ephehum:  first  syllable  is  long;  metri  causa. 

255.  dampnum:  compare  note  to  Mar.  41;  for  the  theme  compare 
Prud.,  Pc7-ist.  3.111;  5.47. 

259.  respuant:  to  be  read  as  a  dissyllable  with  consonantal  "u";  metri 
causa. 

260.  quippe:  metri  explendi  cau^a,  or  possibly  to  strengthen  the 
casual  idea  in  quapropter. 

-156- 


The  Pelagms 

265.     venerarier:  the  obsolete  passive  infinitive  form. 

267.     For  the  thought  compare  Gen.  41.40. 

273.     pronis  ohtutibus:  compare  Mar.  847. 

278.     proici:  the  antepenult  is  short;  meiH  causa. 

280.     fluvii:  the  Quadalquivir  River. 

282.     membratim  creperet  raptim  fractusque  periret:  compare  Prud., 

Perist.    5.111,    "compage    donee    ossuum    divulsa    membratim 

crepet." 

294.  iussit:  again  with  infinitives  (sucddere,  exercere)  without  sub- 
ject accusative;     see  note  to  verse  177. 

295.  sententiolam :  not  diminutive  in  sense. 
301.     Compare  Asc.  88. 

304.  martirii  laudando  fine  peracti:  compare  Mar.  396. 

305.  bravio :  compare  note  to  Gong.  486. 

309.  laureolam:  not  diminutive  in  sense. 

310.  For  comparative  thought,  compare  Mar.  397. 

317.     Compare  Ac.  27.34;  "quia  nullius  capillus  de  capite  peribit." 

323.  fluctivagos  greges:  compare  Prud.,  Cath.  3.46. 

324.  hora:  for  ora;  compare  note  to  Mar.  251. 

326.  cautis  pupillis :  with  searching  eyes;   compare  Mar.  68;   Asc. 

70;  for  difference  in  meaning. 

330.  Compare  Verg.,  Georg.  4.523. 

332.  quod  hie:  note  the  consonantal  "h";    quod  is  here  long. 

341.  seclis:  for  siclis;  shekles,  Hebrew  coins. 

344.  laudabilis:  with  short  second  syllable;  metri  causa. 

347.  remigabant:  with  short  first  syllable;  metri  cau^a. 

348.  famosae  urbis:  compare  note  to  Mar.  365. 
352.  denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 

355.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Diony.  5,  243;  Prim.  538. 

356.  largiter:  ante-classical  and  poetic  for  large;  see  note  to  verse 
211. 

361.  glehae:  compare  Dracovt.  1.159. 

362.  Compare  verse  389. 

363.  For  parallel  expression,  compare  Gong.  313. 

369.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Gong.  309. 

370.  rudcm:  the  first  syllable  is  long;  metri  causa, 
miracula  tanta:  compare  Gong.  567. 

385.     toto  conamine:  compare  note  to  Mar.  66. 

388.     talia  verbida:  not  diminutive  in  sense;  compare  note  to  verse  103. 

palpantes:  note  the  construction  with  the  ace.  verbida. 
400.     flammivomis    undis:    to    the     flame-spuming     waves;     compare 

Jiivenc.  1.23;  also  Kuhnmvench,  S.  J.,  441.19. 

410.  m<iusoleo:  antepenult  is  short;  melH  causa. 

411.  veneratur:  deponent  used  passively. 

412.  finetenus:  compare  note  to  Mar.  384. 

413.  caelitus:  compare  Mar.  311. 

-  157  - 


LAPSUS  ET  CONVERSIO  THEOPHILI  VICEDOMNI 


Postquam  lux  fidei  crescens  per  climata  mundi 
Sicilian!  tenebris  errorum  solvit  ab  atris, 
Vir  satis  illustris  nutritur  partibus  illis, 
Nobilitate  potens,  meriti  splendore  refulgens; 
Hicce  Theophilus  fuerat  de  nomine  dictus, 
Puri  sacrata  tinctus  baptismatis  imda. 
Quern  devota  patrum  divinis  cura  suorum 
Obsequiis  igitur  primis  signavit  ab  annis 
Atque,  sui  dulcem  pie  solicitando  nepotem, 
10       Cuidam  pontifici  credidit  nimium  sapienti, 
Quo  nutriret  eiim  studio  florente  docendum, 
Ipsius  ingenuum  mentisque  rigaret  agellum 
De  sophiae  rivis  septeno  fonte  manantis. 

Cumque  pio  satis  exausti  puero  foret  ipsi, 
Digno  confestim  provectus  honore  gradatim 
Perveniebat  ad  officium  sibimet  satis  aptum, 
Quod  lingua  vulgi  scimus  "vicedom"  vocitari. 
Hac  igitur  tanti  pompa  splendoris  adepta, 
Pontifici  se  subiectum  cleroque  modestum 
20       Praebuit  atque  pium  populo  cunctisque  benignum, 
Commisso<que>  gregi  studio  pr^erat  vigilanti; 
Maxime  sed  Christi  minimis  miserisque  pupillis 
Ac  castis  viduis  necnon  cunctis  peregrinis 
Vestes  et  victum  dextra  tribuit  bene  larga, 
Hospitiumque  vagis  numquam  claudebat  egenis. 
Hinc  igitur  concors  omnis  devotio  plebis 
Affectu  tenero  cordis  pendebat  in  illo: 
Ipsum  ceu  dulcem  venerantur  amando  parentem. 

Interea  vir  summorum  praesul  meritorum 
30       Caelitus  acceptum  direxit  ad  aethera  flatum. 
Quo  nam  defuncto  gremio  terraeque  locate, 
Consensus  plebis  clamant  concorditer  omnis, 

- 158  - 


FALL  AND  CONVERSION  OF  THEOPHILUS, 
VICAR  OF  HIS  BISHOP. 

When  the  light  of  Faith  increasing  throughout  the 
regions  of  the  world  had  freed  Sicily  from  its  black 
darkness  of  error,  there  lived  in  those  regions  quite  a 
renowned  man,  influential  because  of  his  rank  and  dis- 
tinguished for  the  luster  of  his  virtues.  He  was  called 
Theophilus  by  name  when  laved  in  the  sacred  waters 
of  purifying  Baptism.  The  devoted  care  of  his  parents 
marked  him  out  even  in  early  years  for  Divine  service 
and,  with  pious  solicitude  for  their  dear  offspring,  they 
entrusted  him  to  a  certain  bishop,  a  man  of  great  wis- 
dom, that  he  might  foster  him  with  instruction  in  10 
goodly  knowledge,  and  water  the  fresh  field  of  his  mind 
with  the  streams  of  wisdom  issuing  from  the  seven- 
fold font. 

And  when  he  had  drunk  sufficiently  of  this  spring, 
the  saintly  lad,  forthwith  advancing  step  by  step  in 
due  honor,  reached  an  ofl[ice  well  suited  for  him,  which 
office  in  popular  language  is,  we  know,  called  'vicari- 
ate.' Although  such  an  office  enhanced  him  with  a 
great  show  of  splendor,  he  ever  conducted  himself 
humbly  toward  his  bishop  and  unassumingly  toward 
his  people  and  gentle  to  all,  and  he  guarded  with  vigi-  20 
lant  care  the  flock  entrusted  to  him.  But  above  all  to 
the  poor  of  Christ  and  the  afflicted  orphans  and  to 
chaste  widows  and  to  all  strangers  he  distributed  food 
and  clothing  with  a  prodigal  hand ;  and  never  did  he 
close  his  hospice  to  the  wandering  indigent.  There- 
fore in  all  the  people  there  prevailed  for  him  a  united 
devotion  in  the  tender  affection  of  their  hearts,  and  in 
love  they  cherished  him  as  a  dear  father. 

Meanwhile  the  bishop,  a  man  of  highest  virtue,  had 
taken  his  flight  to  heaven  and  yielded  his  soul  to  its 
Maker.    When  his  lifeless  body  had  been  placed  in  the       30 
bosom  of  the  earth,  all  the  folk  cried  aloud  in  accents 

-  159  - 


The  Theophilus 

Respondens  cleri  votis  eadem  cupientis, 
Hunc  fore  praecipuis  aptum  mentis  vicedomnum 
Ut  culmen  sedis  captaret  pontificalis 
Summi  pontificis  curamque  teneret  ovilis. 
Hoc  quoque  persuadere  suo  metropolitano 
Pontifici  scriptis  festinabant  cito  missis, 
Cuius  iudicio  statui  pastor  sapienti 
40       Debuit  ecclesiae  tali  condignus  honore. 

Qui  bonitate  viri  comperta  namque  benigni 
Se  completurum  promisit  velle  precantum 
Et  venisse  virum  iussit  maturius  ipsum, 
Affectu  populi  tanto  quem  sensit  amari. 
Ille  sed,  execrans  talem  constanter  honorem, 
Praesulis  imperio  parere  negat  veniendo, 
Donee  invitus  trahitur,  turbis  glomeratur. 
Et,  cum  pontificis  praesentaretur  ocellis, 
Stratus  adusque  solum  voces  spargebat  in  altum, 
50       Infectum  vitiis  sese  dicens  fore  multis 

Non  aptum  sancto  Christi  populo  dominari. 


His  igitur  querulis  iterata  voce  profusis 
Antistes  summus  cessit  postremo  coactus, 
Huncque,  decus  talis  qui  fastidivit  honoris. 
Iniunctae  vacuum  curae  concessit  abire, 
Constituens  alium  rectoris  nomine  dignum. 
Qui  nam  paucorum  post  intervalla  dierum, 
Quorundam  blandis  clam  seductus  suadelis, 
Subiectis  alium  cito  praeposuit  vicedomnum; 
60       Atque  Theophilum  summis  meritis  venerandum 
Movit  ab  officio,  multos  quo  fungitur  annos. 
Istec  sed,  fragilis  tolerans  patienter  honoris 
Damnum,  tristiam  pellit  de  pectore  cunctam, 
Gaudebatque  satis  sese  iam  posse  vacare 
Tanto  liberius  studio  Christi  famulatus, 
Quanto  curarum  securus  erat  variarum. 


160 


The  Theophilus 

concordant,  chiming  in  with  the  clergy  that  felt  the 
same  wish,  that  this  vicar  was  most  fitting  because  of 
his  outstanding  achievements  to  occupy  the  high  epis- 
copal seat  and  to  assume  the  charge  of  the  bishop's 
flock.  They  hastened  therefore,  by  sending  a  speedy 
petition,  to  urge  this  upon  the  Metropolitan,  by  whose 
wise  judgment  it  was  proper  that  a  shepherd  should  be 
appointed  to  such  a  dignity  in  the  Church.  40 

When  the  Metropolitan  learned  of  the  goodness  and 
kindness  of  the  man,  he  promised  to  fulfill  the  desire 
of  those  making  the  request,  and  he  ordered  Theo- 
philus, who,  he  recognized,  was  loved  with  such  great 
affection  by  the  people,  to  come  to  him  without  delay. 
But  Theophilus,  constantly  deprecating  such  a  dignity, 
refused  to  come  and  obey  the  command  of  the  Metro- 
politan. But  at  length  he  was  dragged  thither  unwill- 
ingly by  a  crowd  which  had  assembled.  When  he  came 
into  the  presence  of  the  Archbishop,  he  prostrated 
himself  upon  the  ground,  and  poured  out  a  volley  of 
protests,  saying  that  he  was  infected  with  many  vices 
and  was  not  fit  to  rule  the  holy  people  of  Christ.  50 

When  he  had  thus  with  incessant  pleading  poured 
forth  these  protestations,  the  Archbishop  finally  yield- 
ed, persuaded  by  his  prayer,  and  he  who  had  rejected 
the  honor  of  such  an  office  was  allowed  to  go  off  with- 
out the  duties  that  had  been  imposed  upon  him ;  the 
Archbishop  then  appointed  another  worthy  of  the 
name  of  pastor.  This  new  bishop  after  an  interval  of 
a  few  days  was  secretly  misled  by  the  suave  talk  of 
certain  people,  and  he  appointed  another  as  vicar  over 
the  flock,  removing  Theophilus,  who  had  been  esteemed 
for  his  high  virtues,  from  the  office  he  had  held  for 
many  years.  60 

But  Theophilus,  patiently  bearing  the  loss  of  that 
precarious  dignity,  expelled  from  his  heart  all  sadness 
and  even  rejoiced  that,  just  as  he  had  been  relieved  of 
manifold  duties,  so  he  could  now  be  proportionately 
more  free  to  labor  in  the  service  of  Christ. 

-161- 


The  Theopkilus 

Cuius  mox  mentem  detestatur  patientem 
Totius  humani  generis  saevissimus  hostis, 
Et,  qua  primatis  decepit  fraude  parentes, 

70       Hac  huiusce  viri  pulsat  penetralia  iusti, 
Adducens  eius  fragili  saepissime  menti 
Blanda  potestatis  delectamenta  prioris 
Despectusque  gravem  facti  nuperrime  sortem. 
Nee  laqueos  harum  retraxerat  insidiarum, 
Donee  captivum  Christi  duxit  sibi  servum ; 
Nee  mora,  vir  fortis,  vita  meritisque  Celebris, 
Mentis  virtutem  demens  abiecerat  omnem 
Nee  temptamentis  studuit  restare  nefandis, 
Sed  victus  cessit  mentisque  dolore  tabescit; 

80       Quique  prius  plebi  sprevit  princeps  dominari, 
Affectat  iuris  pompas  nunc  inferioris. 
Tandem  seductus  caecato  corde  misellus 
Quendam  perversum  petiit  festinus  Hebraeum, 
Qui  magica  plures  decepit  fraude  fideles, 
Prolambensque  suas  prostrato  corpore  plantas 
Ipsius  auxilium  flagitat  lacrimando  nefandum. 
Qui,  super  errantes  lapsus  gaudendo  malignus, 
Nocte  procul  dubio  iussit  venisse  futura, 
Promittens  promptam  despectus  esse  medelam, 

90       Si  parendo  suis  vellet  tantum  suadelis 

Sub  ditione  sui  post  haec  habitare  magistri. 


His  hie  infelix  monitis  captus  male  blandis 
Daemonis  obsequio  saevi  gestit  religari. 
Quo  sic  umbratilis  munus  meruisset  honoris. 
Quem,  non  signatum  signo  sanctae  crucis  almo, 
Sed  mage  daemonicis  confidentem  suadelis, 
Ocius  ille  magus  secum  duxit  maledictus 
Trans  urbem  sub  nocturnis  secreto  tenebris 
Intulit  inque  locum  multo  fantasmate  plenum, 
100     In  quo  tartarei  steterant  in  veste  coloni 
Alba  candelas  plures  manibus  retinentes. 
Inter  quos  medius  princeps  residebat  iniquus, 

-162- 


The  Theophilus 

But  the  savage  enemy  of  all  humankind  soon  came 
to  loathe  this  patient  soul,  and  with  that  same  cunning 
with  which  he  had  erstwhile  deceived  our  first  parents, 
he  assailed  the  inmost  heart  of  this  just  man,  bringing 
before  his  frail  mind  very  often  the  quiet  delights  of  70 
his  former  position  of  influence  and  the  heavy  lot  of 
the  loss  of  prestige  he  had  lately  sustained.  Neither 
did  he  take  away  these  traps  of  treachery  until  finally 
he  had  made  the  servant  of  Christ  his  captive.  And 
without  delay  that  excellent  man,  renowned  for  a  life 
of  virtue,  in  mad  folly  had  rejected  all  virtue  and  made 
no  effort  to  resist  abominable  temptation;  but  van- 
quished he  withdrew  from  the  conflict  and  languished 
in  grief  of  soul.  And  he,  who  had  heretofore  spurned  80 
to  rule  the  people  as  a  prince,  now  affected  the  parade 
of  a  lesser  power.  At  length  the  perverted  wretch,  in 
the  blindness  of  his  heart,  sought  out  speedily  a  certain 
wicked  Jew  who  had  deceived  many  of  the  faithful  by 
his  magic  fraud,  and,  falling  before  him  and  groveling 
at  his  feet,  Theophilus  pleaded  amid  tears  for  his 
wicked  help.  This  seducer,  maliciously  rejoicing  at 
the  fall  of  the  recreant  ecclesiastic,  ordered  him  to 
come  without  fail  on  the  following  night,  holding  out 
the  prospect  of  a  ready  remedy  for  his  humiliation, 
if  only  in  obedience  to  his  persuasions,  he  was  willing 
thereafter  to  live  under  the  sway  of  the  magician's  90 
master. 

The  unhappy  man,  captivated,  alas,  by  these  flatter- 
ing suggestions,  was  eager  to  be  bound  to  the  service 
of  the  fierce  demon,  in  order  that  thus  he  might  merit 
a  position  of  shadowy  distinction.  The  accursed  magi- 
cian then  led  with  him  Theophilus,  not  now  signed  with 
the  beneficent  sign  of  the  Cross,  but  trusting  rather  in 
hellish  persuasions,  at  dark  of  night  secretly  through 
the  city  and  brought  him  to  a  place  filled  with  many 
spectres,  in  which  were  the  inhabitants  of  hell,  clad 
in  white  garments  and  many  of  them  holding  candles  100 
in  their  hands.    In  their  midst  sat  enthroned  the  ini- 

-163- 


The  Theophilus 

Qui  rex  est  mortis  proles  quoque  perditionis, 
Suadens  damnandis  astuta  fraude  ministris, 
Inpigre  cunctis  praetendere  calliditatis 
Assuetae  laqueos  omnes  captare  paratos. 

At  magus  errantem  damnumque  sui  cupientem 
Mox  ad  concilium  perducebat  scelerosum, 
Prostratusque  sui  plantis  extimplo  magistri 

110     Monstravit  verbo  causam,  qua  venerat  illo. 
Cui  daemon  saevus  contra  sic  denique  fatus 
"Die,"  ait,  "auxilii  possim  quid  ferre  fideli 
Ablutoque  viro  Christi  baptismatis  unda? 
Si  meus  esse  cupit  scriptis  Christumque  negabit 
Illiusque  puellarem  pariter  genitricem, 
Per  cuius  partum  patior  nimium  grave  damnum, 
Ilium  continuo  virtute  mea  relevabo 
Atque  decus  talis  praestabo  patenter  honoris, 
Praesul  ut  ipse  suis  non  contradicere  iussis 

120     Apponat,  cernens  omnes  illi  famulantes. 

Qui  nunc  despectum  spernunt,  venerarier  ipsum." 

His  nam  blanditiis  anguinae  callidatis 
Iste  miser  verbo  non  contradixerat  ullo, 
Sed  fieri  gestit,  quae  perversus  draco  suasit, 
Proditur  atque  <sui>  totum  se  perditioni 
Sponte  dedit,  proprii  cartam  scribens  detrimenti, 
In  qua  spirituum  testatur  velle  nigrorum 
Esse  sub  aeternis  socius  per  saecula  poenis. 
Hoc  ubi  perfecit,  passim  fantasma  recessit, 
130     Ipseque  cum  pravo  gaudendo  redibat  amico. 


Facta  namque  die,  praesul  praecepit  adesse 
Cleri  primates  plebis  pariterque  priores, 
Atque  Theofilum  cunctis  astantibus  illis 
Adductum  verbis  nimium  blanditur  amicis, 
Ipsius  subdens  hilari  vultu  ditioni 


-164 


The  Theophilus 

quitous  prince,  who  is  the  king  of  death  and  the  son  of 
perdition,  persuading  his  damnable  agents  with  cun- 
ning deceit  to  cast  over  all  unremittingly  their  nets  of 
wonted  cleverness,  nets  ready  to  capture  all. 

Presently  the  magician  led  the  erring  man  de- 
sirous of  his  own  destruction  into  this  infernal  assem- 
bly, and,  straightway  prostrating  himself  before  the 
feet  of  his  master,  he  made  known  in  words  the  reason 
why  he  had  come  there.  The  hateful  demon  at  length 
replied  to  him:  'Tell  me,  what  help  can  I  bear  to  110 
one  of  the  faithful,  who  has  been  washed  in  laver  of 
the  Baptism  of  Christ?  If  he  indeed  desires  to  be 
mine,  and  will  even  in  writing  deny  Christ  and  also  the 
Virgin  Mother,  through  whose  bringing  forth  I  sus- 
tained such  a  grievous  loss,  then  will  I  at  once  help 
him  by  my  power  and  bestow  upon  him  publicly  a  dis- 
play of  such  honor  that  even  the  Archbishop  will  not 
constantly  contradict  his  orders,  seeing  that  all  his 
servants,  who  now  despise  Theophilus,  will  be  venerat- 
ing him."  120 

The  wretched  man  responded  not  a  single  word  to 
these  flatteries  of  the  serpent's  cunning,  but  he  itched 
to  see  done  all  which  the  accursed  deceiver  persuaded, 
and  self-betrayer  that  he  was,  he  gave  himself  of  his 
own  accord  to  utter  perdition,  signing  the  contract  of 
his  own  destruction ;  in  this  contract  he  attested  that 
he  willed  to  be  the  associate  of  the  black  spirits  in  eter- 
nal punishment  throughout  endless  ages.  When  this 
contract  was  completed,  the  vision  straightway  van- 
ished in  every  direction,  and  Theophilus  in  great  joy 
returned  with  his  wicked  friend.  130 

Now  when  day  was  come,  the  Archbishop  command- 
ed the  first  of  the  clergy  and  also  the  leaders  of  the 
people  to  come  together.  And  when  Theophilus  was 
brought  into  the  presence  of  all,  the  Archbishop 
praised  him  in  exceedingly  kind  terms,  submitting  to 
the  will  of  Theophilus,  now  beaming  with  a  joyous 
countenance,  and  he  wept  amid  holy  lamentations  for 

- 165  - 


The  Theophihis 

Deflevit  piis  sese  pecasse  lamentis, 
Abiecisse  virum  praesumebat  quia  sanctum. 
Ast  hie,  e  subitis  tanti  laetatus  honoris 
Donis,  plus  aequo  tollit  se  mente  superba, 

140     lactanter  subiectorum  cuneos  populorum 
Ipsius  obsequiis  cogens  succumbere  duris, 
Et,  spreto  penitus  patriae  caelestis  honore, 
Terrestris  tantum  pompae  versatur  amore. 
Cumque  diu  vacuis  inhiaret  namque  lucelHs 
Atque  monente  mago  numquam  cessaret  iniquo 
Saevo  multiplices  Satanae  persolvere  grates, 
Ex  cuius  largis  credidit  sollummodo  donis 
Accessisse  quidem  tantam  sibi  prosperitatem, 
Tandem  caelestis  pietas  immensa  parentis, 

150     Qui  numquam  cupit  interitum  mortemque  reorum, 
Sed  mage  conversis  laetam  concedere  vitam, 
Condoluit  facti  meritum  periisse  benigni, 
Quo  quondam  stabili  fulsit  celeberrimus  orbi 
Istec,  sollicitans  omnes  clementer  egentes; 
Moreque  divino  pietas  eadem  veneranda 
Concutit  errantem  digna  formidine  mentem. 

Nee  mora,  conpunctus  summo  maerore,  misellus 
Praeponit  pavitans  oculis  saepissime  cordis. 
Quanta  negando  Deum  meruit  tormenta  per  aevum 
160     Et  quibus  in  poenis  iungi  debebat  Averni. 

Haec  quoque  tractando  secum  maerore  supremo, 
Talia  continuis  fertur  dixisse  lamentis: 
"Heu  mihimet  misero,  cunctis  probris  vitiato ! 
Ve  mihi  damnando  proprii  pro  crimine  voti. 
Qui  patris  summi  prolem  per  scripta  negavi 
Divinaeque  simul  dulcem  prolis  genitricem ! 
Eheu,  quam  saevis  tradar  per  saecula  poenis 
Et  quam  continuis  claudar  sine  <fine>  tenebris. 


166- 


The  Thcophihis 

having  sinned  against  him  and  for  having  presumed  to 
cast  away  such  a  saintly  man.  But  Theophilus,  over- 
joyed at  the  sudden  gift  of  such  unwonted  distinction, 
extolled  himself  with  unjust  haughtiness  of  spirit,  140 
boastfully  compelling  tlie  flock  of  the  people  entrusted 
to  him  to  submit  to  his  harsh  orders;  and  rejecting 
utterly  the  dignity  of  his  celestial  fatherland,  he  clung 
only  to  the  love  of  earthly  display.  And  when  for  a 
long  time  he  had  eagerly  sought  such  empty  gain  at 
the  advice  of  that  wicked  magician  and  had  not  ceased 
to  give  manifold  thanks  to  cruel  Satan,  to  whose 
copious  gifts  alone  he  attributed  the  flourishing  wealth 
that  had  come  to  him,  at  length  the  inexhaustible 
Goodness  of  the  Heavenly  Father,  Who  never  desires  150 
the  destruction  and  death  of  the  wicked  but  rather  to 
grant  a  happy  life  to  them  upon  their  conversion,  was 
grieved  that  the  merit  of  so  charitable  a  life  had  been 
lost,  wherewith  that  man  had  once  shone  so  brightly 
in  the  stable  earth,  being  so  mercifully  solicitous  for 
all  the  wretched;  and  thus  in  manner  divine  that 
Adorable  Goodness  touched  this  erring  soul  with  a  just 
fear. 

Nor  did  the  v/retched  man  pause ;  but  he  was  pricked 
with  intense  remorse,  and  amid  trembling  he  frequent- 
ly placed  before  the  eyes  of  his  soul  what  intense 
torments  throughout  all  eternity  he  had  merited,  and 
how  he  ought  to  share  the  punishments  of  the  infernal 
regions  for  his  denial  of  God.  160 

Contemplating  amid  great  grief  these  things  within 
himself,  he  is  said  continually  to  have  broken  forth 
into  lamentations  such  as  these :  "Woe  is  me,  wretched 
soul,  tainted  with  all  vices !  Alas,  for  me  to  be  damned 
for  my  crime  in  the  pact  I  made  whereby  I  have 
through  written  contract  denied  the  Son  of  the  Most 
High  Father  and  likewise  the  sweet  Mother  of  that 
Divine  Child!  Woe  is  me!  Unto  what  bitter  punish- 
ment am  I  to  be  delivered  for  all  times !  In  what  last- 
ing darkness  am  I  to  be  shut  up  forever!    Wretched 

-167- 


The  Theophilus 

Qui  miser  elegi  subdi  Satanae  ditioni 

170     Atque  tenebricolis  Erebi  sub  limine  iungi, 
Mundanae  pompae  vano  seductus  amore! 
Quid  dicturus  ero  nimium  peccator  in  illo 
Tempore  iudicii  Sanctis  ipsis  metuendi, 
Quando  factorum  mercedem  quisque  suorum 
Accipiet  dignam  satis  aequa  lance  libratam 
Pro  diversorum  qualitate  quidem  meritorum? 
Vel  quis  forte  mei  tunc  apponet  misereri, 
Cum  vix  pro  meritis  iustus  salvatur  opimis? 
Nam  Christi  genitrix  caelique  potens  dominatrix 

180     Flaminis  atque  sacri  templum  sine  sorde  coruscum, 
Haec  eadem  Virgo  partus  post  gaudia  casta, 
Quae  retro  conversis  fuerat  mitissima  cunctis 
Atque  sui  dulcem  numquam  tardat  pietatem, 
Sola  mihi  veniae  potis  est  medicamina  ferre, 
Si  pro  me  proprium  dignatur  poscere  natum. 
Sed,  si  pollutis  illam  rogitare  labellis 
Coepero,  bachanti  nuper  quam  corde  negavi, 
Me  vereor  flammis  caelo  consumier  actis, 
Ferre  meum  facinus  quia  non  patitur  grave  mundus. 

190     Attamen  instantis  causa  cogente  doloris 
Eiusdem  celerem  supplex  quaero  pietatem, 
Quo  Clemens  animam  precibus  solvat  perituram." 
Haec  secum  querulis  nimium  dicebat  amaris ; 
Et,  saecli  curis  citius  de  corde  repulsis, 
Inpiger  ad  templum  properat  sub  honore  dicatum 
Virginis  intactae  matrisque  Dei  venerandae, 
Octies  et  spatium  transegit  quinque  dierum 
Illic,  contrito  deflens  sua  corde  piacla, 
Denegat  atque  sibi,  lacrimis  satiatus  amaris, 

200     Omnia  cultorum  delectamenta  ciborum, 

Scilicet  et  requiem  somni  saepissime  dulcem, 
Pervigil  in  sacris  summo  conamine  votis. 


168 


The  Theophilus 

me,  who  have  chosen  to  submit  to  the  will  of  Satan  and 
to  be  united  to  those  dwellers  of  darkness  within  the  170 
regions  of  Erebus,  seduced  as  I  was  by  a  vain  passion 
for  earthly  glory !  What  shall  I,  a  great  sinner,  say  in 
that  great  day  of  Judgment,  which  even  the  saints 
must  fear,  when  each  according  to  his  own  deserts  will 
receive  the  reward  weighed  in  the  just  balance,  in  pro- 
portion to  the  quality  of  each  one's  merits?  Or  who 
will  then  any  longer  have  compassion  on  me,  when  the 
just  man  is  barely  saved  even  through  his  abundant 
works?  For  only  the  Mother  of  Christ  and  powerful 
Queen  of  heaven  and  radiant,  spotless  temple  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  remaining  Virgin  after  the  chaste  joys  180 
of  child-birth,  she  who  was  ever  most  benign  to  those 
who  are  converted  to  the  Lord,  and  who  would  never 
delay  her  sweet  kindness :  she  alone  is  able  to  bring 
to  me  the  remedy  of  pardon  if  she  but  deign  to  inter- 
cede for  me  with  her  Son.  But  if  I  should  attempt  to 
beseech  her  with  lips  polluted,  whom  I  have  but  lately 
denied  with  frenzied  heart,  I  am  afraid  of  being  con- 
summed  by  fire  hurled  down  from  on  high  because  the 
earth  would  not  suffer  to  bear  my  heinous  crime. 
However,  compelled  by  the  cause  of  pressing  sorrow,  I  190 
humbly  seek  her  compassion  quick  to  heed,  in  order 
that  she  may  graciously  save  my  perishing  soul  by  her 
intercession." 

Such  were  the  exceedingly  bitter  reproaches  which 
he  uttered  within  himself;  and  then,  hastily  casting 
from  his  heart  all  cares  for  the  world,  he  hurried, 
nothing  loth,  to  the  temple  dedicated  to  the  honor  of 
the  Immaculate  Virgin,  the  Mother  of  God.  Eight 
times  the  space  of  five  days  he  tarried  there  weeping 
with  contrite  heart  over  his  sins,  satiating  himself 
with  bitter  tears,  denying  himself  every  refreshment 
of  dainty  food,  and  very  often  the  sweet  rest  of  sleep,  200 
in  supreme  effort  keeping  watchful  in  his  holy  pur- 
pose.   And  forsooth,  by  subduing  his  body  with  such 

-169- 


The  Thcophilvs 

Tali  percerte  corpus  frangendo  labore 
Purgavit  lacrimis  animae  maculas  vitiatae. 

His  bene  perfectis  nimium  cum  lassus  in  horis 
Nocturnis  molli  dederat  sua  membra  quieti, 
Astitit  in  somnis  illi  castissima  regis 
Aeterni  genitrix,  eadem  mundi  dominatrix, 
Scilicet  auxilium  spes  solamenque  paratum 
210  Eius  praesidium  devota  mente  precantum, 
Talibus  et  verbis  terrebat  corda  paventis : 

"0  vir,  cur  nostri  vigilas  ad  limina  templi, 
Vel  cur  posse  mei  celerem  temet  pietatem 
Praesumis  sperare,  meum  qui  denique  natum 
Me  matremque  sui  perverso  corde  negasti? 
Die,  rogo,  quis  oculis  possim  mis  cernere  prolis 
Divinae  vultum  caelesti  luce  coruscum, 
Quove  modo  solio  praesens  astare  tremendo 
Eius  praesumo,  tibimet  veniam  rogitando? 

220     Ast  omnes  culpas  in  me  fortasse  patratas 
Affectu  mentis  tibi  mox  indulgeo  gratis, 
Omne  genus  nimium  quia  diligo  christicolarum. 
Illos  praecipue  tenero  sed  mentis  amore 
Diligo,  consolor,  propriis  amplector  et  ulnis, 
Quos  exorantes  crebris  himnisque  vacantes 
Invigilare  meo  cerno  saepissime  templo. 
Materni  sed  vis  fortis  me  cogit  amoris 
Hinc  magis  erga  te  nimio  fervescere  zelo. 
Quod  praesumpsisti,  tradendus  perditioni, 

230     Blasphemendo  mei  sanctum  contempnere  natum, 
Qui,  Deus  aeternus  de  patre  Deo  generatus 
Retro  principii  primordia  cana  sereni, 
Ex  me  dignatus  sumpsit  sub  tempore  corpus, 
Quod  dedit  humanae  morti  nationis  amore." 


Tali  dicenti  castae  Christi  genitrici 
Vir  maerens  animo  contra  sic  f atur  amaro : 
"0  mea  domna,  scio,  nimiumque  tabasco  sciendo, 

-170- 


The  Theophilus 

labors,  he  with  tears  purged  the  stains  from  his  sinful 
soul. 

After  duly  performing  these  deeds,  when  exceeding- 
ly exhausted  in  the  hours  of  the  night  he  had  given 
his  body  to  soft  slumber,  there  stood  before  him  in 
sleep  the  most  chaste  Mother  of  the  Eternal  King,  the 
Mistress  of  the  world,  the  Help,  the  Hope,  and  the 
ready  Consolation  of  those  imploring  her  protection  210 
with  a  devout  mind;  and  she  spoke  words  like  unto 
these  that  frightened  his  trembling  heart : 

"0  man,  why  dost  thou  keep  vigil  at  the  threshold 
of  our  temple,  or  why  dost  thou  presume  to  hope  that 
my  ready  goodness  can  aid  thee,  who  hast  but  lately 
with  wicked  heart  denied  my  Son  and  me.  His  Mother? 
Tell  me,  I  pray,  how  could  I  look  with  my  eyes  into  the 
Countenance  of  my  Divine  Son,  refulgent  with  celestial 
light,  and  in  what  manner  would  I  presume  to  stand 
before  His  dreadful  Throne  to  seek  pardon  for  thee? 
But  all  the  faults,  which  perchance  thou  hast  perpe-  220 
trated  against  me,  I  in  kindliness  of  heart  now  forgive 
thee  freely,  because  I  love  intensely  all  the  race  of 
those  who  worship  Christ.  But  those  do  I  especially 
cherish  with  tender  affection  of  heart,  and  those  do  I 
console  and  embrace  in  mine  own  arms,  whom  I  often 
see  watching  in  my  temple,  in  prayer  and  in  the  fre- 
quent chanting  of  hymns.  But  the  strong  force  of  my 
motherly  affection  constrains  me  to  be  rather  enkindled 
with  great  indignation  toward  thee  because  thou  hast  230 
dared,  surrendering  thyself  to  perdition,  to  despise  by 
blasphemy  my  Sacred  Son,  Who,  begotten  as  Eternal 
God  from  God  the  Father  before  the  age-old  begin- 
nings of  creation's  first  bright  noon,  deigned  to  take 
from  me  in  time  a  body,  which  he  gave  in  death  for 
the  love  of  mankind." 

To  the  chaste  Mother  of  Christ  speaking  in  this 
strain  the  repentant  man  responded :  "0  my  Mistress, 
I  know,  and  I  grieve  exceedingly  because  of  this  knowl- 

-171- 


The  Theophihis 

Plus  iusto  quia  deliqui  spe  captus  inani, 
Commisi  cunctis  facinus  vitiis  quoque  peius, 

240     Despiciendo  Deum  de  te  sine  sorde  profusum. 
Hinc  non  sum  dignus  veniae  conquirere  munus ; 
Sed  tamen  exemplum  nobis  tribuere  salutis 
Sperandae  multi,  vario  qui  crimine  lapsi 
Post  lapsum  scelerum  veniam  meruere  suorum. 
Nonne  Ninivitae  mitem  Christi  pietatem, 
Sese  condignis  cruciantes  namque  lamentis, 
Invenere  trium  post  intervalla  dierum? 
Nonne  David,  propheta  Dei,  princeps  quoque  regni 
ludaici,  plebem  Domini  qui  rexit  herilem, 

250     Illicito  nuptae  subito  praeventus  amore, 
Non  timet  insidiis  circumveniendo  dolosis 
Insontem  vita  fraudare  virum  sine  causa, 
Complexus  carae  licito  quo  posset  habere : 
Sed  postquam,  vatis  perterritus  advenientis 
Admonitu,  culpas  didicit  deflere  gemellas, 
Delevit  lacrimis  tantae  maculas  cito  sordis 
Suscepit  rursum  prophetiae  quoque  donum? 
Quid  referam  Petrum,  Christo  testante  beatum? 
Qui,  postquam  ius  solvendi  pariterque  ligandi 

260     Necnon  stelligerae  claves  acceperat  aulae 
Pro  fidei  rectae  satis  expressa  ratione, 
Detestando  Deum  sese  cognoscere  Christum 
Rennuit,  ancillae  vocem  metuendo  nefandae — 
Nee  semel,  aut  binis  vicibus,  sed  denique  ternis 
Ceu  numquam  visum  carum  negat  ergo  magistrum 
Sed,  quia  condigne  lapsum  deflevit  ab  ore 
Peccatum,  veniae  meruit  medicamen  opimae; 
Scilicet  atque,  gregi  iussus  praeesse  fideli 
Princeps,  ecclesiae  pastor  fit  iure  sacratae. 

270     Talibus  ac  tantis,  aliis  multisque  figuris 

Admonitus,  similem  me  sperabam  pietatem 
A  Christo  citius  per  te  conquirere  posse." 


-172- 


The  Theophilus 

edge,  that  I  have  transgressed,  captivated  inordinate- 
ly by  a  vain  hope,  and  have  committed  a  sin  more 
heinous  than  all  other  sins  by  despising  God  Who  was 
born  of  thee  without  stain.  240 

"Therefore  I  am  not  worthy  to  seek  the  gift  of  par- 
don ;  but  nevertheless  many  have  given  us  an  example 
of  hope  for  salvation,  who  having  fallen  have  merited 
pardon  for  their  various  crimes.  Did  not  the  Nine- 
vites,  by  punishing  themselves  amid  appropriate  wail- 
ings,  find  the  sweet  pardon  of  Christ  after  the  space  of 
three  days  ?  Is  it  not  true  that  David,  prophet  of  God, 
chief  of  the  kingdom  of  Juda,  and  ruler  of  the  chosen 
people  of  the  Lord,  suddenly  seized  with  an  unlawful 
passion  for  a  wedded  woman,  did  not  hesitate  to  en-  250 
compass  with  treacherous  snares  and  to  deprive  of  life 
an  innocent  man,  in  order  that  he  might  be  able  to 
enjoy  in  vvedlock  the  embraces  of  his  beloved?  But, 
terrified  by  the  admonitions  of  the  prophet  who  came 
to  him,  did  he  not  learn  to  bewail  his  twofold  crime, 
and  did  he  not  wash  out  with  his  tears  the  stains  of 
such  vileness  and  receive  again  the  gift  of  prophecy? 
Why  should  I  speak  of  Peter,  when  Christ  testified  to 
his  blessedness?  After  he  had  received  the  power  to 
bind  and  to  loose  and  also  the  keys  of  the  star-bearing  260 
vault,  because  he  had  in  a  fitting  manner  expressed 
his  true  faith,  thereafter  despising  God  he  denied  that 
he  knev/  Christ,  and  in  fear  of  the  speech  of  a  wicked 
maid-servant,  not  once,  nor  even  twice,  but  really 
thrice,  did  he  deny  his  loved  Master  as  if  he  had  never 
seen  Him.  But  because  he  bemoaned  in  a  fitting  man- 
ner the  sin  that  had  fallen  from  his  lips,  he  merited 
the  remedy  of  fruitful  pardon ;  and  forsooth  he  was 
commanded  to  preside  over  the  faithful  flock  as  its 
leader  and  vvas  rightfully  made  the  shepherd  of  the 
Holy  Church.  Encouraged  therefore  by  these  mighty 
examples  and  by  many  others,  I  hoped  that  I  might  270 
speedily  win  a  like  favor  from  Christ  through  thee." 

-  173  - 


The  Theophilus 

Cui  vultu  blando  dicebat  sancta  Maria, 
Tristem  mellifluae  refovens  dulcedine  linguae: 
"Si  te  commissum  turbat  facinusque  nefandum, 
Condecet,  ut  cordis  consensu  confitearis 
Hoc,  quod  mendaci  demens  sermone  negasti, 
Ipsum,  quern  peperi,  patris  natum  fore  summi. 
Qui  iudex  orbem  veniet  renovare  per  ignem; 
280     Et  post  haec  tandem  pro  te  praesumo  rogare." 
Ille  quidem  rursus  lacrimans  infit  vicedomnus : 
"0  dilecta  Dei,  <genetrix>  sanctissima  Christi, 
Quae  miti  refoves  cunctos  pietate  fideles, 
Quo  pacto,  quo  iure  quidem  contingere  tandem 
Altithroni  nomen  sanctum  venerabile  magnum 
Infelix  ego  pollutis  praesumo  labellis, 
Qui  Christum,  baptisma,  crucem,  Christi  quoque  matrem 
Te  castam  scriptis  blasphemavi  male  pictis 
Cunctaque  caelestis  pia  sacramenta  salutis?" 


290         Hie  miserens  querulis,  inventrix  virginitatis 
Aiebat  blandis  iterum  clementius  orsis: 
"Quamvis  sis  gravibus  vitiis  nimium  maculatus, 
Attamen,  ut  monui,  Dominum  non  sperne  fateri. 
Est  quia  factus  homo  nostri  solummodo  causa, 
Ut  spem  conversis  veniae  praeberet  habendae." 

Tunc  istec  demum,  monitis  parendo  iubentis, 
Cum  lacrimis  tales  spargebat  ad  aethera  voces : 
"Nunc  supplex  veneror,  laudo,  complector,  adoro 
Ex  patre  caelesti  Christum  sine  tempore  natum, 
300     Temporibus  nostris  missum  de  sede  parentis, 
Ut  de  te  casta  necnon  de  flamine  sancto 
Indueret  f ragilis  nostrae  velamina  carnis ; 
Huncque  Deum  verum  necnon  hominem  fore  plenum 
Non  dubito,  nostri  causa  qui  pertulit  ergo 
Obprobriis  tangi,  colaphis,  alapis  quoque  caedi, 

-174- 


The  Theophilus 

Holy  Mary  answered  him  with  kindly  mien,  refresh- 
ing the  stricken  man  with  the  sweetness  of  her 
honeyed  tongue:  "If  the  sinful  commission  of  this 
accursed  crime  doth  indeed  distress  thee,  it  behooves 
thee  to  confess  unfeignedly  that  which  thou  hast  so 
madly  denied  in  lying  words,  that  He  Whom  I  have 
brought  forth  is  truly  the  Son  of  the  Most  High  Fa- 
ther, Who  will  come  as  Judge  to  renew  the  world  by 
fire ;  and  only  after  thou  hast  done  this,  will  I  venture 
to  intercede  for  thee."  280 

Then  the  vicar  again  responded  tearfully :  "0  thou 
beloved  of  God,  most  holy  Mother  of  Christ,  thou  who 
dost  refresh  all  the  faithful  with  tender  kindness,  in 
what  manner  and  with  what  right  indeed,  may  I, 
wretched  being  that  I  am,  with  foul  lips  presume  to 
touch  the  Name  of  the  Most  High,  so  sacred,  so  vener- 
able, so  great ;  I  who  have  wickedly  blasphemed,  even 
in  writing  wickedly  signed,  Christ,  Baptism,  the 
Cross,  and  even  thee,  0  chaste  Mother  of  Christ,  as 
also  all  the  Holy  Sacraments,  those  founts  of  heavenly 
salvation  ?" 

Moved  by  these  lamentations,  the  source  of  all  vir-  290 
ginity,  in  words  yet  more  mercifully  gracious,  spoke 
again:  "Although  thou  art  stained  with  exceedingly 
grievous  sins,  nevertheless,  as  I  have  admonished,  do 
not  spurn  to  confess  the  Lord,  because  He  was  made 
Man  solely  for  our  sakes,  that  He  might  afford  a 
hope  of  winning  pardon  to  such  as  were  converted." 

Then  obeying  the  admonition  she  spoke,  he  sent  up 
to  heaven  amid  tears  these  cries:  "Now  humbly  do  I 
venerate,  praise,  embrace,  adore  Christ,  Son  of  the 
Heavenly  Father  from  all  eternity,  sent  in  our  time  300 
from  the  Throne  of  His  Father,  that  from  thee,  0 
chaste  One,  and  from  the  Holy  Spirit,  He  might 
clothe  Himself  with  the  garments  of  our  frail  flesh.  I 
do  not  doubt  that  He  is  true  God  and  Man  in  the 
fullest  sense,  Who  suffered  for  our  sakes,  to  be  afflicted 
with  revilings  and  to  be  struck  with  buffetings  and 

-175- 


The  Theophilus 

Sacraque  pulsari  crebris  sua  terga  flagellis, 
Adque  sputis  rutili  speciem  vultus  maculari; 
Cumque,  coronatus  spinis  et  felle  potatus, 
Quae  sacra  praedixit  scriptura,  per  omne  replevit, 

310     Postremo,  sacris  expansis  in  cruce  palmis, 
Ceu  pastor  verus  bonitatis  honore  decorus 
Pro  nobis  animam  moriens  ponebat  amandam 
Adque  sepulchralem  dignans  suscepit  honorem; 
Hinc  inferna  petens  erebi  quoque  claustra  resolvens, 
Mortem  destruxit  mortis  patremque  ligavit 
Tartareoque  suos  traxit  de  carcere  iustos, 
Ac  sic  non  parva  victor  comitante  caterva 
Ad  superos  rediit  proprium  corpusque  resumit, 
Quod  fuit  in  busto  clausum  sub  marmore  magno; 

320     Tertia  quem  vivum  vidit  lux  omne  per  aevum, 
Discipulique  sui  crebro  videre  beati 
Ipsum  nunc  convescentem,  nunc  ergo  loquentem 
Illis  de  regno  dulci  sermone  futuro; 
Post  haec,  attonitis  oculis  cernentibus  ipsis, 
Ipsam,  quam  sumpsit,  carnem  super  astra  libravit, 
In  qua  indicium  veniet  celebrare  futurum 
Proque  suis  meritis  reddet  bona  vel  mala  cunctis. 
Haec  ita  credentem  cordisque  fide  retinentem 
Atque  tui  deposcentem  solitam  pietatem, 

330     Commenda  me,  Virgo,  tuo,  sanctissima,  nato 
Impetraque  tuo  veniam  famulo  sceleroso." 


Haec  ubi  continuis  deflevit  verba  querelis, 
Sancta  dei  genitrix  eademque  potens  dominatrix 
Caelorum,  verbis  respondens  inquid  amicis: 
"Propter  mysterium  sacri  baptismatis  almum. 
Quod  suscepisti  credentis  more  popelli, 
Et  propter  dulcem  carae  mis  prolis  amorem, 
Cuius  te  pretio  sacris  scio  sanguinis  ample 


176 


The  Theophilus 

blows ;  and  He  suffered  His  sacred  Back  to  be  beaten 
with  many  scourgings  and  His  beautiful  Face  to  be 
polluted  with  vile  spittle;  and  after  being  crowned 
with  thorns  and  given  gall  to  drink,  fulfilling  through 
these  things  all  that  had  been  foretold  in  the  Sacred 
Scripture,  then  finally  with  His  sacred  Hands  extended 
upon  the  Cross  like  a  true  Shepherd  adorned  with  the  310 
chaiTn  of  His  Goodness,  dying.  He  laid  down  His  dear 
Life  for  us  and  deigned  to  accept  the  honor  of  a  sepul- 
chre. And  after  this,  seeking  the  lower  regions  and 
loosing  the  bars  of  Erebus,  He  destroj^ed  death  and 
fettered  the  father  of  death,  delivering  from  the  prison 
of  Tartarus  His  own,  the  just,  and  accompanied  by  an 
immense  throng.  He  returned  as  Victor  to  the  upper 
world  taking  again  His  own  Body,  which  had  been 
enclosed  in  a  sepulchre  beneath  a  huge  stone.  The 
third  day  saw  Him  entering  eternal  glory,  Him  also  320 
His  blessed  disciples  saw  frequently,  now  eating  with 
them,  again  speaking  with  them  in  sweet  conversation 
concerning  the  kingdom  He  was  to  establish.  After 
this  while  His  disciples  looked  on  with  astonished  eyes. 
He  lifted  the  Body  which  He  had  taken,  up  above  the 
stars;  that  Body  in  which  He  will  come  to  hold  the 
solemn  Judgment  that  is  to  be,  when  He  will  render 
according  to  each  one's  merits  reward  or  punishment. 
Because  I  believe  these  things  and  retain  them  in  a 
faithful  heart  and  beg  of  thee  thy  wonted  kindliness,  330 
do  thou  commend  me,  0  most  holy  Virgin,  to  thy  Son, 
and  implore  pardon  for  thy  wicked  servant." 

When  he  had  sobbed  out  these  words  amid  continuous 
lamentations,  the  Blessed  Mother  of  God  and  likewise 
powerful  Mistress  of  the  heavens,  answering  him  re- 
sponded in  kindly  tones :  "Because  of  the  benign 
mystery  of  sacred  Baptism,  which  thou  hast  received 
according  to  the  manner  of  the  faithful  people,  and  be- 
cause of  my  tender  love  for  my  dear  Son,  by  the 
ample  price  of  Whose  sacred  Blood  I  know  that  thou 
hast  been  purchased,  that  Blood  which  was  shed  for 

-177- 


The  Theophilus 

Emptum,  pro  mundo  qui  fusus  erat  perituro, 
Procedens  sacris  advolvor  sedula  plantis 
340     Eiiis,  quern  genui,  cunctorum  iudicis  aequi, 

Nee  parcam  preculis  studio  certante  profusis, 
Donee  ipsius  mitem  cogo  pietatem, 
Ut  tibi  parcendo  dimittat  tanta  piaela." 
His  dictis,  subito  discessit  Virgo  sacrata, 
Linquens  promissi  misero  solamina  sani. 

Certe  post  triduum  rursus  veniebat  ad  ilium, 
In  visu  veniae  munus  reserans  reparatae, 
Et  vultu  laeto  deprompsit  talia  verba : 

350     "En  tis,  vir  Domini,  tristis  conpunctio  cordis 
Est  accepta  Deo  patri  prolique  perenni, 
Atque  tuae  lacrimae  scelerum  veniam  meruere, 
Sed  nee  tartareis  poenis  umquam  capieris, 
Si  post  haec  perstare  cupis  sine  fraude  fidelis." 
Ipse  quidem  contra  mox  dicebat  prece  blanda : 
"Certe  servabo  sacrae  fidei  documenta 
Nee  post  haec  ultra  male  transgredior  neglegendo 
Quicquam  de  vestris,  mea  domna  piisima,  iussis, 
Te  quia  post  Dominum  solam  conferre  medelam 

360     Spero,  quo  poenis  pabulum  non  tradar  amaris. 
Sed  non  est  mirum,  per  te  me  iam  fore  salvum, 
Per  quam  de  veteris  loetali  crimine  matris 
Omnem  dante  Deo  mundum  patet  esse  solutum ; 
Et  quis,  te  poscens  spe  non  dubiaque  requirens, 
Desertus  fuerat  vel  confusus  remeabat? 
Hinc  ergo  criminibus  sat  supremis  vitiatus 
Suppliciter  fontem  devota  mente  perennem, 
Alma  Dei  genitrix,  exoro  tuae  pietatis, 
Ut  facias  cartae  literas  extim.plo  nefandae, 

370     Quis  me  subiunxi  vastatoris  ditioni, 

Eius  de  manibus  miserum  me  sumere  rursum, 


178 


The  Theophihis 

the  redemption  of  a  world  that  was  destined  to  perish, 
I  will  approach  and  cast  myself  earnestly  at  the  sacred 
Feet  of  Him  Whom  I  have  brought  forth,  the  just  340 
Judge  of  all,  neither  will  I  stint  the  prayers  but  pour 
them  forth  with  emulous  zeal,  until  I  shall  constrain 
His  tender  Benignity  to  blot  out,  by  granting  pardon 
to  thee,  such  great  offense."  When  the  sacred  Virgin 
had  said  this,  she  quickly  departed,  leaving  the 
wretched  man  the  consolation  of  her  salutary  promise. 

After  three  days  she  came  again  to  him,  revealing  to 
him  in  a  vision  the  gift  of  forgiveness  won,  and  with 
joyful  mien  she  uttered  words  to  this  effect :  "Man  of 
God,  behold,  the  compunction  of  thy  sorrowing  heart  350 
has  been  acceptable  to  God  the  Father,  and  to  His 
Eternal  Son,  and  thy  tears  have  merited  pardon  of 
thine  offenses,  nor  wilt  thou  ever  be  entrapped  by  the 
tortures  of  hell,  if  henceforth  thou  wilt  desire  to  per- 
severe faithfully  without  guile." 

He  responded  immediately  and  spoke  in  persuasive 
prayer:  "Assuredly  will  I  observe  the  teachings  of 
our  sacred  Faith,  nor  ever  again  after  this  time  will  I 
wickedly  transgress  through  negligence  any  of  thy 
commands,  my  tender  Mistress,  because  after  God  I  360 
trust  that  thou  alone  dost  bring  that  remedy,  through 
which  I  shall  not  be  delivered  as  food  for  bitter  pun- 
ishment. But  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  that  it  is 
through  thee  I  have  been  saved,  through  whom,  God 
granting,  it  is  clear  that  the  entire  world  was  freed 
from  the  deadly  crime  of  the  ancient  mother.  And 
who,  imploring  thee  and  seeking  thee  without  a  doubt- 
ful hope,  has  ever  been  forsaken  or  has  gone  away 
confounded?  Therefore  I,  wholly  tainted  with  the 
greatest  vices,  now  with  devout  mind  suppliantly  en- 
treat the  perennial  spring  of  thy  clemency,  that  thou, 
loving  Mother  of  God,  wilt  grant  forthwith  that  to  me, 
wretched  sinner,  from  the  hands  of  the  destroyer,  the 
writ  of  the  nefarious  contract  be  restored,  by  the  terms  370 
of  which  I  have  placed  myself  under  his  dominion.  For 

-179- 


The  Theophilus 

Hinc  animam  formido  meam  quia  forte  misellam 
Tempore  iudicii  multo  discrimine  laedi, 
Si  nunc  praedoni  non  est  abstracta  feroci." 

His  dictis,  oculis  iterum  vigilabat  apertis, 
Et  se  prostemens,  precibus  crebro  quoque  deflens, 
leiunando  trium  cursus  agit  ergo  dierum. 
Post  haec  e  somno  cum  surrexit  mane  summo, 
Invenit  positam  supra  sua  pectora  cartam. 
380     Qua  visa  membris  mox  contremuit  resolutis 
Et  grates  Christo  cordis  reddebat  ab  imo 
Atque  puellari  pariter  Christi  genitrici. 

Post  haec  namque  die  sacra  feliciter  orta, 
Quae  trahit  a  Domino  nomen  venerabile  summo, 
Intrat  in  ecclesiam  populis  ex  more  repletam, 
In  qua  tunc  inter  sacrae  solempnia  missae 
Astantes  evangelicis  praesul  docet  orsis, 
Et,  coram  cunctis  sacram  prostratus  ad  aram, 
Eiusdem  quoque  pontificis  dans  oscula  plantis, 
390     Voce  palam  clara  narravit  ab  ordine  cuncta, 
Quae  vel  mortiferis  egit  victus  suadelis 
Vel  quae  perpetua  meruit  poscente  puella. 
Haec  ubi  composita  plene  retulit  ratione, 
Antistes,  facti  tactus  terrore  stupendi, 
Intonat  his  verbis  mirantis  voce  profusis: 


"Cuncti  gaudentes  hue  iam  properate  fideles, 
Et,  pia  facta  Dei  laudantes  mente  fideli, 
Credite  iam  Dominum  propria  pietate  benignum 
In  loeto  delectari  numquam  scelerosi, 
400     Sed  phis  conversis  vitam  dare  velle  futuram. 
Eia,  dilecti  fratres,  intendite  cuncti, 
Quam  pie  peccantes  Dominus  tolerat  bonus  omnes, 
Quos  scit  converti  post  tristia  facta  piacli. 
Quis  non  miretur,  quis  non  supplex  veneretur 

-180- 


The  Theophilus 

I  fear  that  my  wretched  soul  will  be  distracted  with 
great  peril  on  the  day  of  Judgment,  if  now  the  paper 
be  not  snatched  from  the  hands  of  the  ravishing 
plunderer." 

When  he  had  said  this,  he  kept  vigil  again  with  his 
eyes  open  and  prostrated  himself  amid  weeping  and 
many  prayers,  and  he  spent  the  passage  of  three  days 
in  fasting.  Very  early  the  following  morning,  when 
he  awoke  from  sleep,  he  found  the  parchment  placed  380 
upon  his  breast.  The  sight  made  him  tremble  forth- 
with, and  his  limbs  relaxed,  while  from  his  innermost 
soul  he  rendered  thanks  to  Christ  and  likewise  to  the 
Virgin  Mother  of  Christ. 

Thereafter,  when  that  sacred  day  had  dawned  joy- 
fully which  takes  its  venerable  name  from  the  Most 
High  God,  Theophilus  entered  the  Church,  which  was 
filled,  as  it  was  wont  to  be,  with  people;  here  then 
during  the  solemn  celebration  of  the  Holy  Mass,  when 
the  bishop  was  wont  to  teach  the  folk  standing  by  with 
words  of  the  Gospel,  Theophilus  cast  himself  in 
presence  of  all  before  the  sacred  altar  and  also  be- 
stowed kisses  upon  the  feet  of  the  bishop.  Then  public-  390 
ly  and  in  distinct  voice  he  related  all  in  proper  order ; 
what  he  had  done  when  conquered  by  deadly  wiles,  and 
what  boon  he  had  obtained  through  the  intercession 
of  her  who  is  ever  Virgin.  When  he  had  fully  related 
this  story  in  due  order,  the  bishop,  moved  with  awe  at 
the  marvelous  event,  spoke  aloud  in  these  words,  ut- 
tered in  tones  of  wonderment: 

"Come,  hasten  hither  in  joy  all  ye  faithful,  and, 
praising  the  kindly  deeds  of  God  with  loyal  hearts,  be- 
lieve that  God,  merciful  in  His  Goodness,  never  re- 
joices in  the  destruction  of  the  wicked,  but  rather  wills  400 
to  give  Life  everlasting  to  those  returning  to  Him. 
Yes,  beloved  brethren,  do  ye  all  attend,  how  the  good 
God  bears  lovingly  with  all  sinners,  who.  He  knows, 
are  converted  after  the  sorrow-bringing  deeds  of 
wickedness.    Who  would  not  mai*vel  at,  who  would  not 

-181- 


The  Theophilus 

Laudandam  mitem  dulcem  Christi  pietatem, 
Ilium  quaerentes  semper  qua  sublevat  omnes? 
Qui  iam  criminibus  miserans  parcebat  et  huius 
Ipsius  illustris  precibus  sanctaeque  parentis, 
Per  quam  naturae  periit  maledictio  nostrae 

410     Et  per  quam  mundo  venit  benedictio  cuncto. 

Hinc  memor  esto,  Dei  genitrix  sanctissima,  nostri, 

Qui  te  mente,  fide,  voto  laudamus  et  ore, 

Quo  pius  ipse  gregem  pastor  servare  fidelem 

Dignetur,  veteris  depulsa  fraude  draconis. 

At  nos  exiles,  nulla  virtute  potentes, 

Te  semper,  regis  mater  non  tacta  perennis, 

Ac  de  te  genitum  regem  Dominumque  polorum 

Efferimus,  crebris  conclamantes  simul  odis, 

Peccato  noster  moriens  periit  quia  frater, 

420     Sed,  postquam  periit,  per  te,  sacra  Virgo,  revixit." 


His  dictis  cartam  comburebat  maledictam, 
Et  mox  misterium  missae  peragit  studiose. 
Hoc  ubi  complevit,  miro  splendore  refulsit 
Instar  surgentis  Phoebi  facies  vicedomni. 
Quo  mentis  splendor  lucens  animae  quoque  candor 
Eius  per  faciem  monstraretur  rutilantem. 
Hinc  astans  populus  nimia  formidine  tactus 
Altithrono  grates  coepit  resonare  tonantes, 
Cui  placuit  monstrare  viri  meritum  venerandi. 
430     Ipse  quidem,  sacrum  repetens  extimplo  locellum, 
In  quo  caelestis  donum  meruit  pietatis, 
Frangitur  adversa  f ragilis  valitudine  carnis ; 
Per  spatium  trium  morbo  crescente  dierum, 
Exemptus  corruptibilis  de  carcere  carnis 
Spiritus  aetheream  plaudens  ascendit  ad  aulam 
Auxilio  sanctae  fultus  domnaeque  Mariae. 
Scilicet  extinctum  corpus  nisu  populorum 


182 


The  Theophilus 

humbly  adore,  the  glorious,  meek,  and  sweet  Goodness 
of  Christ,  by  which  He  ever  raiseth  up  all  who  seek 
Him?  He  in  compassion  pardoned  now  the  sins  of 
this  man  because  of  his  own  prayers  and  also  those  of 
His  illustrious  Blessed  Mother,  through  whom  perished 
the  curse  of  our  nature,  and  through  whom  benediction  410 
has  come  to  the  whole  world.  Therefore,  be  mindful 
of  us,  0  most  Blessed  Mother  of  God,  who  praise  thee 
with  heart  and  faith  and  tongue  and  prayer,  so  that 
He  Who  Himself  is  the  Good  Shepherd,  may  deign  to 
preserve  His  faithful  flock,  confounding  the  treachery 
of  the  ancient  serpent.  But  we,  banished  ones, 
strengthened  by  no  virtue,  ever  extol  thee.  Immaculate 
Mother  of  the  Eternal  King,  and  the  King  born  of  thee 
do  we  laud,  the  Lord  of  Heaven,  raising  our  voices  in 
frequent  hymns,  because  our  brother,  dead  through 
sin,  had  perished,  but,  after  he  had  perished,  through 
thee,  0  Holy  Virgin,  he  has  been  restored  to  life." 

When  he  had  finished  speaking,  he  burned  the  ac- 
cursed contract  and  at  once  continued  the  Holy  Mass 
with  great  fervor.  When  he  had  finished,  the  features 
of  the  vicar  shone  with  a  wondrous  splendor  as  of  the 
rising  sun,  so  that  the  radiant  beauty  of  his  soul  and 
the  purity  of  his  heart  were  made  manifest  through 
his  beaming  countenance.  On  seeing  this,  the  as- 
sembled people  were  moved  with  great  fear,  and  they 
began  to  sound  in  thundering  tones  thanksgiving  to 
the  Most  High,  Who  had  been  pleased  to  show  the 
merits  of  that  venerable  man.  Theophilus,  making  his  430 
way  again  to  the  sacred  spot  in  which  he  had  merited 
the  gift  of  heavenly  goodness,  was  presently  enfeebled 
by  the  failing  health  of  his  frail  body;  and  the  malady 
increasing  within  the  space  of  three  days,  his  triumph- 
ant spirit,  released  from  the  prison  of  the  corruptible 
flesh,  ascended  to  the  celestial  realms,  supported  by  the 
assistance  of  Mary,  our  Blessed  Lady.  By  the  endeavor 
of  the  people  the  lifeless  body  was  duly  entombed  amid 

-183- 


The  Theophilus 

Ipso  rite  loco  tumulatur  honore  supremo, 

In  quo  nactus  erat  veniam,  quern  flendo  rogabat. 

440         Talis  erat  desperati  necnon  scelerosi 

Finis,  qui  proprium  didicit  deflere  reatum 
Et  se  condignis  studuit  punire  lamentis. 
Hinc  laus  et  virtus  Christo  per  saecula  cuncta, 
Humani  veterem  generis  qui  straverat  hostem, 
Plasma  suae  dextrae  rapiens  serpentis  ab  ore, 
Ipsius  et  dulci  constet  laus  alma  parenti, 
Quae  pie  solamen  misero  iam  contulit.    Amen. 


Unicus  altithroni  genitus  retro  tempora  mundi, 
Qui  miserans  hominis  descendit  ab  arce  parentis 
450     Et  carnis  veram  sumpsit  de  Virgine  fonnam, 
Virginis  ut  gustum  primae  deleret  amarum, 
Consecret  appositae  nobis  pie  fercula  mensae, 
Has  faciendo  dapes  gustatibus  esse  salubres. 
Quod  sumus  et  quod  gustamus  vel  quicquid  agamus, 
Dextera  factoris  benedicat  cuncta  regentis. 


-184 


The  Theophilus 

the  last  rites  in  the  very  spot  where  he  had  obtained 
that  pardon  which  he  had  solicited  amid  weeping. 

This  therefore  was  the  end  of  that  despairing  and  440 
sinful  man,  who  yet  learned  to  bewail  his  own  trans- 
gressions and  had  striven  to  chastise  himself  amid 
worthy  lamentings.  Wherefore  may  praise  and  power 
be  given  throughout  all  ages  to  Christ,  Who  laid  low 
the  ancient  enemy  of  humankind,  snatching  the  work 
of  His  own  Right  Hand  from  the  Jaws  of  the  serpent ; 
and  may  goodly  praise  also  be  rendered  to  His  sweet 
Mother,  who  has  in  such  kindly  wise  brought  solace 
to  the  afflicted.    Amen. 


May  the  only  Son  of  the  Most  High,  begotten  before 
all  time,  Who,  pitying  humankind,  descended  from  the  450 
Throne  of  His  Father  and  took  a  true  human  body 
from  a  Virgin,  in  order  that  He  might  destroy  the 
bitter  taste  of  that  first  virgin,  bless  devotedly  for  us 
the  food  of  this  spread  table,  making  these  viands 
wholesome  to  those  who  taste  them.  Whatever  we  are 
and  whatever  we  taste  or  whatever  we  may  do,  let  the 
Hand  of  the  Creator,  our  King,  bless  all. 


NOTES  ON  THE  THEOPHILUS 

In  the  Biographical  Dictionary  of  the  Saints,   Holweck,    (Herder, 
1924)  for  February  fourth,  we  have  the  following  account: 

Theophilus,  the  "Penitent"  an  apocryphal  saint,  found  in  the 
collection  of  Metaphrastes,  but  unknown  to  the  liturgical  books 
of  the  East  and  West.  The  story  is  that  he  was  treasurer  and 
archdeacon  of  the  church  of  Adana  in  Cilicia,  about  538,  and  that 
he  refused  the  mitre,  but  later  on,  when  he  was  deposed  from 
his  office  through  slander,  he  made  a  contract  with  the  devil,  from 
which  he  was  freed  by  the  Blessed  Virgin.  The  deed  was  torn 
and  publicly  burned.  The  legend  is  a  religious  romance,  an  early 
version  of  the  myth  of  Doctor  Faustus. 

-185- 


The  Theophilm 

The  Acta  Sanctorum,  Feb.,  Tom  1.483  has  a  similar  account  but  adds 
that  in  572,  Eutychianus,  a  disciple  of  Theophilus,  wrote  the  life  of 
the  priest  after  the  latter's  death.  This  version  written  in  the  Greek 
language  was  translated  by  Paul  the  Deacon  and  dedicated  to  Charles, 
the  Fat.  This  copy  is  extant  under  the  title:  "Miraculum  S.  Marie  de 
Thtophilo  Poenitente,  mterprete  Paulo  Diacono  Neapoleos,  Ex.  Ill 
Codicibus  Mes." 

Comparison  shows  that  Hrosvitha  follows  this  prose  version  very 
closely.  Her  legend  has  been  repeatedly  commented  upon  as  the 
earliest  account  in  verse  of  a  pact  with  the  devil,  and  a  precursor  of 
the  many  versions  of  the  Faust  legend. 

The  conversion  of  Theophilus  is  mentioned  by  Saint  Peter  Damian 
in  a  sermon  on  the  "Nativity  of  the  Blessed  Mother."  This  saint  lived 
about  the  seventh  century.     (Quoted  from  Act.  Sanct.  loc.  cit.) 

The  Greek  original  is  found  in  Jubinal's  Oeuvres  de  Rutebeuf,  Tom. 
2.  (Paris  1839),  p.  332.  Eutychianus  calls  himself  a  cleric  and  affirms 
that  he  was  reared  in  the  family  of  Theophilus,  and  that  what  he 
writes  he  has  himself  seen,  or  heard  from  Theophilus  himself. 

In  the  Acta  Sanctorum  under  the  same  month  and  date  is  found 
another  metrical  version  of  "Theophilus".  This  work  is  reputed  to  be 
that  of  the  Monk  Marbodus  who  lived  several  centuries  after  Hrosvitha. 
He  apparently  imitates  the  style  and  meter  of  Hrosvitha,  and  although 
at  times  his  meter  is  more  felicitous  than  that  of  his  weaker  prede- 
cessor, yet  his  homoeoteleuton  is  very  irregular  and  his  vocabulary 
distinctly  that  of  a  later  century.  He  no  doubt  used  the  same  source, 
that  is,  the  manuscript  of  Paul  the  Deacon.  Hrosvitha  adheres  so 
faithfully  to  her  source  that  in  some  instances  she  takes  whole  ex- 
pressions from  her  model;  yet  there  are  passages  which  are  quite 
original  and  point  to  the  author's  attempt  at  a  deeper  and  more  psy- 
chological interpretation.  Compare  also  Ebert  3.  298;  Gundlach  235; 
Eckenstcin  165;  Dorer  64. 

From  a  historical  viewpoint  this  legend  is  interesting  as  containing 
the  germ  of  the  Faust  legend  with  its  Satanic  pact.  Hrosvitha  was 
the  first  to  bring  this  favorite  theme  to  the  German  nation,  although 
she  did  this  in  a  foreign  tongue.  That  nation  readily  recognized  the 
possibilities  of  such  a  theme  especially  in  those  mystic  times  of  the 
Middle  Ages.  Images  and  painting  of  the  legend  decked  the  walls 
of  churches  and  galleries;  even  the  stained-glass  windows  pictured, 
side  by  side  with  other  illustrious  penitents,  the  redemption  of  Theo- 
philus. The  poetry  of  the  era,  epic  as  well  as  dramatic,  handled  the 
theme  in  its  Marian  eulogies. 

With  the  passing  of  those  days  of  deeply  religious  enthusiasm  came 
also  the  decline  in  religious  lore,  and  only  in  comparatively  modern 
times  was  the  theme  revived  in  the  garb  of  the  Faust  Legends.  Theo- 
philus and  Faust  are  twin  twigs  of  a  common  stock  but  of  vastly 
different  modes. 

-186- 


The  Theophiltts 

Theophilus  is  not  only  a  philosopher  but  a  servant  of  God,  who  has 
apparently  mounted  high  the  ladder  of  perfection;  his  fall  is  there- 
fore more  lamentable  and  his  conversion  more  delightful.  Faust, 
on  the  other  hand,  is  but  the  savant,  whose  vain  and  empty  search 
for  happiness  gives  us  a  true  picture  of  the  narrow-minded  philosopher 
of  the  Wittenberg  School  as  contrasted  with  the  ardent  faith  of  the 
mediaeval  times  of  which  Theophilus  was  typical. 

Yet  the  motives  of  Faust,  it  must  be  admitted,  as  compared  with 
those  of  his  prototype,  are  less  blameworthy  and  betray  the 
development,  religious  and  philosophical,  which  had  resulted  during 
an  interval  of  five  centuries. 

Theophilus  severs  himself  from  all  that  is  sacred  and  holy;  Faust 
in  spite  of  his  degeneracy  does  not  give  up  Faith,  even  though  it  is  a 
doubting  one.  For  him  God  is  an  incomprehensible  Being  Whom  he 
longs  to  understand.  The  Mephisto  whom  Faust  has  summoned  as 
a  power  to  assist  him  proves  too  weak,  and  this  very  weakness  of 
the  Prince  of  Darkness  proves  the  salvation  of  Faust. 

One  might  multiply  comparisons,  but  suffice  it  to  say  that  Marlowe 
and  others  who  handled  the  theme  after  the  mediaeval  era  failed  to 
allow  for  the  repentance  of  the  erring  one,  and  the  demon  came  off 
victorious.  It  was  Goethe  who  again  restored  to  the  legend  the 
wholesome  repentance  of  the  fallen  man  and  the  final  triumph  of 
Grace.  See  Dorer  53-64. 
Title,     vicedomni:  see  verses  17,  34. 

2.  Siciliam:  rather  Ciliciam;  first  syllable  usually  short,  but  com- 
pare "Sicilides  Musae,"  Verg.,  Eel.  4.1. 

3.  vir  satis  illustris  in  partibus  illis:   compare  Bas.  20. 

4.  nobilitate  potcns:  compare  Bas.  22. 

5.  hicce:  the  obsolete  form  of  hie. 

Theophilus:    scanned   as   Thedphlliis;    compare   verse   60;      the 
word  is  treated  freely;  metri  eausa. 

6.  baptismatis  unda:  compare  note  to  Asc.  27. 

8.  primis  ab  annis:  compare  Gong.  53;  Agn.  136;  178,  283;  Prim. 
14;  Prud.,  Saint  Agnes  11;  Verg.,  Aen.  2.87. 

9.  sollicitando :  apparently  in  the  usual  sense  "to  take  care  of." 
nepotem:  ordinarily  a  "grandson;"  in  poetry  "a  descendant,"  "an 
offspring;"  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  6.  864  "Filius  anne  aliquis 
magna  se  stirpe  nepotum."  Since,  however,  sui  may  equal  eius, 
nepotem  may  mean  "nephew"   (of  the  bishop). 

pie:  scanned  pie;  metri  causa. 

10.  credidit:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

13.       septeno  fonte:  that  is,  the  trivio  et  qnadrivio;  compare  Pelag. 
17.    The  Greek  original  makes  no  mention  of  the  early  education 
of  Theophilus;      neither  does   Marbodus.     These   thoughts  are 
apparently  original  with  Hrosvitha. 
fonte:  without  a  preposition  after  mananiis; 

-187- 


The  Theophilus 

18.       adepta:  a  form  of  adijnscor  used  passively. 

21.  preerat:  a  shortened  form  for  praeerat  as  in  prehendo;  see 
Buck,  Comp.  Gram,  of  Greek  and  Latin,  sec.  149. 

22.  pupillis:  orphans;   compare  Mar.  68;   Pelag.  326. 
24.       For  parallel  expression,  compare  Gong.  151. 

30.  ad  aethera  flatum:  compare  Prim.  483. 

31.  gremio :  without  in  after  locato. 
33.       Compare  Gest.  130. 

42.  o^ei/e  precantum:  velle  is  used  as  a  substantive,  the  object  of 
completurum,  and  governs  precantum,  a  gen.  plural. 

43.  ventssp;  perfect  for  present  infinitive;  consult  Intro,  xxi. 
47.       parcre  negat:  as  we  would  say,  "denied  obedience." 

52.  quendis  profusis:  explains  I'oces  spargebat  in  altum,  verse  49. 

56.  For  parallel  expression,  compare  Gest.  1498. 

62.  istec:  with  retained  *-ce';  compare  hicce,  verse  5. 

69.  primates  parentes:  more  correctly  primarii  parentes. 

70.  huisce:  compare  note  to  verses  5,  62. 
76.  nee  mora:  compare  Ovid,  Met.  3.46. 

vir  fortis:   like   the   frequent   vir  fortissimus   in   Cicero   after 

proper  names. 
79.       dolore  tabescit:  compare  Agn.  114  for  meter  and  thought;    first 

syllable  of  tabescit  is  short;     metri  causa. 
82.       caecato  corde:  also  Bos.  184;     Agn.  234. 
88.       itissit  venisse:  compare  note  to  verse  43. 

94.  umbratilis:    second  syllable  is  short. 

meruisset:  pluperfect  for  the  imperfect  subjunctive. 

95.  Note  the  alliteration. 

100.  steterant:  for  the  imperfect.  This  incident,  in  which  Hrosvitha 
depicts  the  evil  spirits  clothed  in  white  and  holding  lighted 
tapers,  is  found  also  in  the  original  of  Paul  the  Deacon,  but 
not  in  the  version  of  Marbodtis. 

103.     See  Ad  Thess.  2.2.3. 

109.  extimplo:  for  extemplo;  the  last  syllable  is  short. 

110.  For  parallel  expression,  compare  Prim.  129. 
113.     baptismatis  unda:  compare  note  to  verse  6. 

120.  apponat:  apponere  with  ut  or  with  the  infinitive  is  frequent  in 
the  Vulgate;     see  Ronsch,  Itala  und  Vidgata. 

121.  venerarier:  old  infinitive  passive  form. 

124.     perversus  draco :  compare  Gong.,  note  to  verse  353. 

126.  In  the  Vita  of  Paul  the  Deacon,  Theophilus  signs  the  contract 
and  solemnly  seals  it.  Here  also  the  devil,  using  the  Jew  as 
interpreter,  carries  on  a  conversation  with  Theophilus. 

132.     primates  priores:  compare  note  to  verse  69. 

135.  Strecker  and  Winterfeld  suggest  a  lacuna  of  two  lines  follow- 
ing this  verse.     Not  so  Barack  and  Schurzfleisch.     A  rendition 

-188- 


The  Theophilits 

is   possible   without   any   addition;    se   is   to   be   supplied   with 

subdens. 
136,     lamentis:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 
138.     abiecisse:  aoristic  perfect  infinitive. 
140.     cuneos:  compare  note  to  Asc.  97. 
147.     credidit:  compare  note  to  verse  10. 

150.  Compare  verses  398-400;   also  Ezech.  18.23;   Bos.  13.139. 

151.  mage:  for  magis;  compare  verse  96. 
154.     istec:  see  note  to  verse  62. 

157.     nee  mora:  compare  note  to  verse  76. 

159.  quanta  meruit:  indicative  in  an  indirect  question. 

160.  quibiis  in  poenis  iungi:  more  graphic  than  iungi  with  dat.  tene- 
bricolis,  verse  170. 

161.  tractando:  gerund  for  present  participle. 
167.     For  parallel  thought  compare  verse  360. 
170.     tenebricolis :  compare  Intro,  xxi. 

172.     nimium   peccator:    adverb    used   with    a    substantive;    compare 
plane  vir,  "a  man  in  the  perfect  sense;"  see  Menge,  Repetito- 
rium,  12c. 
172-178.     Compare  the  theme  in  these  lines  with  the  following  passage 
from  the  Dies  Irae : 

Quid  sum,  miser,  tunc  dicturus? 
Quem  patronum  rogaturus? 
Cum  vix  iustus  sit  securus.    (Stanza  7). 
Hrosvitha  seems  to  have  anticipated  the  reputed  author  of  the 
thirteenth  century,  Thomas  of  Celano;     at  least  the  similarity 
of  thought  suggests  a  conmion  source.   Compare  Petr.  Ep.  1.4.13. 
177.     apponet  misereri:  see  note  on  apponat,  verse  120. 

179.  Compare  Mar.  13. 

180.  sine  sorde:  a  probable  reference  to  the  belief  in  the  Immaculate 
Conception  of  the  Blessed  Mother,  as  partus  post  gaudia  casta, 
in  verse  181,  is  a  clear  reference  to  her  Virginity;  note  that 
casta  may  be  feminine  with  Virgo. 

183.  Compare  "Non  tardat  Dominus  promissionem  suam."  Petr.,  Ep. 
2.3.9. 

186.  pollutis  labellis:  so  also  verse  286. 

187.  bachanti  corde:  compare  Bas.  53;  in  bachanti,  'ch'  apparently 
makes  position  as  if  'cc' 

188.  covsnmier:  the  obsolete  infinitive  passive  form. 

194.     fiaecli:  for  this  syncopated  form  compare  Har.  xxvi.  5.     Note 

also  the  alliteration  in  this  verse. 
197.     octies:  the  last  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa;  however,  it  may 

scan  as  a  dissyllabic  octies. 
202.     summa  conamine:  compare  note  to  Mar.  66;  also  Juvenc.  4.701. 
207.     in  somnis:  Paul  the  Deacon  says  merely:  "media  nocte." 

-189- 


The  Theophilus 

211.     corda:  note  the  plural  for  the  individual  heart;  a  lectio  varians 

has  cor  pavitantis. 
216.     mis:  for  mei;  obsolete  genitive;     compare  Asc.  48. 
219.     rogitando:  gerund  for  the  participle. 

221.  affectu  mentis:  may  perhaps  stand  with  patratas  ("in  the  pas- 
sion of  thy  mind"). 

222.  ChriRticolarum :  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  2.641;  Mar.  580. 
225.     himnisqiie:  note  the  irregular  spelling. 

230.  comtevipnere :  compare  Mar.  41. 

231.  de  patre:  a  variant  for  a  patre;  compare  Deum  de  Deo  in  the 
Nicene  Creed. 

237.     tabesco:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

245.  Ninevitae  mitem  Christi  pietatem:  note  the  anachronism  as 
Hrosvitha  associates  the  Ninevites  of  the  Old  Law  with  Christ. 
Compare  also  Mar.  493. 

246.  lamentis:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 
248-250.     For  the  theme,  compare  II  Reg.  11. 

herilem  plehem:  the  chosen  people;    compare  Mar.  555. 
253.     For  the  comparative  thought,  see  Bas.  90. 
254-256.     The  theme  is  from  II  Reg.  12. 
258-261.     The  theme  is  from  Mt.  16.17-19. 
262-265.     Compare  Mc.  14.66-72;  Lc.  22.54-62;  Mt.  26.69-75;   lo.  18. 

15-18. 
266.     Compare  Mc.  14.72;  lo.  13.38. 
270.     Paul   the    Deacon    further   mentions    Saul,    the    persecutor;      a 

certain    Cyprian   who   had   perpetrated   much   evil   but   having 

repented,  found  grace;     the  version  of  Marbodus  includes  also 

Rahab,  Mary  Magdalen,  and  Zacheus. 
286.     pollutis  labellis:  thus  also  in  verse  186. 

290.     inventrix  virginitatis :  compare  Auctricem  virginitatis,  Abr.  2.1. 
296.     istec:  see  note  to  verse  62. 

parendo:  gerund  for  the  present  participle. 

301.  flamine  sancto:  compare  note  to  Mar.  34. 

302.  celamine  caitiis:  compare  Mar.  308;  Juvenc.  749. 
305-310.     The  theme  is  from  lo.  19.1-6;  Mt.  27.26-31. 
317.     comitante  caterva:  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  5.76. 
324.     attonitis  oculis:  compare  note  to  Asc.  123. 

335.  For  the  theme,  compare  note  to  Gong.  35. 

345.     Lectiones  variantes  of  Barack  and  of  Schurzfleisch  place  this 
verse  after  344;  logically  however  it  seems  to  follow  335. 
popelli:  compare  note  to  Mar.  315. 

336.  mis  prolis:  for  meoe  prolis;  compare  note  to  verse  216. 
350.     tis:  compare  mis  and  the  note  to  verse  336. 

364-365.  Compare  these  lines  with  the  opening  lines  in  the  'Memorare' 
attributed  to  Saint  Bernard,  who  lived  several  centuries  after 
Hrosvitha. 

-190- 


The  Theophilus 

367.     devota  mente:  compare  note  to  Mar.  744. 
369.     For  the  theme,  compare  Bas.  183. 
extimplo:  for  extemplo. 

377.  ergo:  metri  explendi  causa. 

378.  mane:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

379.  Paul  the  Deacon  here  compares  Theophilus  to  Moses,  who  after 
a  fast  of  forty  days  received  from  the  Lord  the  tables  of  stone. 

383.  Compare  Paul  the  Deacon's  version,  3.15. 

384.  quae  trahit  a  Domino  nomen:  that  is,  the  Lord's  Day. 

385.  ex  more:  more  correctly  de  tnore. 

386.  solempnia:  compare  Mar.  41. 

387.  evangelicis  orsis:  compare  note  to  Mar.  173. 

395.  In  Paul  the  Deacon's  version  the  bishop  at  this  juncture  calls 
the  faithful  to  rejoice  reiterating  ten  successive  times:  'venite 
videte'. .  .  He  then  begs  Theophilus  to  destroy  the  paper. 

402.  pie:  with  short  ultima;  metri  causa;  so  also  in  verse  447  and 
452. 

403.  piacli:  compare  note  to  verse  194. 

412,     For  parallel  thought,  compare  Gong.  120. 

419.     Compare  Lc.  16.32. 

434.     Note  the  alliteration. 

436.     domnaeque :  for  dominaeque ;  compare  Har.  xxvi.5. 

442.     lamentis:  see  note  to  verse  246. 

445.     plasma:  a  Latinized  Greek  word;  compare  Avitus,  2.9. 

448-455.  These  lines  are  apparently  a  prayer  of  Grace  at  meals. 
The  prayer  is  in  no  way  connected  with  the  legend.  Its  pres- 
ence here  probably  indicates  that  the  legends  were  originally 
intended  to  be  read  aloud  during  meals  in  the  refectory,  and 
that  the  reading  closed  with  a  prayer.  See  Eckenstein  166; 
Ebert  3.295. 


191- 


BASILIUS. 
DEDICATIO  GERBERGAE. 

En  tibi  versiculos,  Gerberg,  fero,  domna,  novellos, 
lungens  praescriptis  carmina  carminulis, 

Qualiter  et  veniam  meruit  scelerosus  amandam, 
Congaudens  modulis  succino  dactilicis; 

Spernere  quos  noli,  nimium  cum  sint  vitiosi, 
Sed  lauda  miti  pectore  facta  Dei ! 


Qui  velit  exemplum  veniae  comprendere  certum 
Necnon  larga  Dei  pietatis  munera  magni, 
Pectore  versiculos  submisso  perlegat  istos, 
10       Nee  fragilem  vilis  sexum  spernat  mulieris, 

Quae  fragili  modulos  calamo  cantaverat  istos, 
Sed  mage  caelestem  Christi  laudet  pietatem, 
Qui  non  vult  digna  peccantes  perdere  poena, 
Sed  plus  perpetuae  conversos  reddere  vitae : 
Gaudens  gaudebit ;    quod  verum  stare  probabit, 
Quisquis  praesentem  perscrutatur  rationem. 


Tempore,  Basilius  quo  vir  virtutibus  almus 
Rexerat  ecclesiam  iusto  moderamine  sanctam, 
Sedem  rectoris  sortitus  Caesariensis, 
20       Vir  satis  illustris  degebat  partibus  illis, 

Nomine  Proterius,  cunctae  plebi  venerandus, 

Nobilitate  potens  opibus  rerum  quoque  pollens. 

Unica  feminei  sexus  proles  fuit  illi 

(Nee  alius  substantiolae  mansit  sibi  magnae 

Heres),  quam  certe  tenero  dilexit  amore; 

Affectuque  pio  necnon  pietate  paterna 

Optans,  plus  animam  natae  numquam  morituram 

Ornari  gemmis  perfectae  virginitatis, 

Quam  corpus  pompa  mundi  mortale  caduca, 

-192- 


BASILIUS. 

DEDICATION  TO  GERBERGA,  HER  ABBESS. 

Behold,  I  bring  to  thee,  Gerberga,  my  Lady,  new 
verses,  thus  adding  songs  to  the  songs  I  have  been 
commissioned  to  write;  and  how  a  wretched  sinner 
won  loving  forgiveness,  I  joyfully  sing  in  dactylic 
strains;  do  not  choose  to  spurn  these,  even  though 
they  be  exceedingly  crude,  but  do  thou  praise  with 
gentle  heart  the  works  of  God. 


He  who  wishes  to  hear  an  unfailing  example  of 
pardon  and  of  the  bounteous  gifts  of  the  great  good- 
ness of  God,  let  him  peruse  with  humble  heart  these 
lines;  nor  let  him  despise  the  frail  sex  of  a  weak 
woman,  who  with  frail  pen  has  composed  these  meas- 
ures ;  but  rather  let  him  praise  the  heavenly  goodness  10 
of  Christ,  Who  does  not  will  to  destroy  sinners  by  the 
punishment  they  deserve,  but  rather  to  convert  them 
and  bring  them  back  to  eternal  Life;  with  joy  will 
every  man  rejoice,  whoever,  upon  examining  the 
present  account,  will  acknowledge  the  truth  of  what 
I  say. 

At  the  time  when  Basilius,  a  man  of  kindly  disposi- 
tion, ruled  his  holy  flock  with  righteous  sway,  having 
obtained  the  bishopric  of  Caesarea,  there  lived  in  those 
parts  a  widely  celebrated  man  named  Proterius,  re-  20 
spected  by  all  the  people  and  influential  because  of  his 
nobility,  and  equally  so  because  of  his  wealth.  He  had 
an  only  daughter,  whom  he  loved  with  tenderest  affec- 
tion, and  there  was  no  other  heir  to  his  vast  fortune. 
With  loving  solicitude  and  paternal  devotion  he  desired 
rather  that  the  immortal  soul  of  his  daughter  should 
be  adorned  with  the  chann  of  perfect  virginity,  than 
that  her  mortal  body  should  be  endowed  with  the 
perishable  vanities  of  the  world.  He  therefore  planned 

-193- 


The  Basilius 

30       Curavit  sacris  ipsam  sociare  puellis, 

Quae  consignatae  Christo  velamine  sacro 
Coenobii  claustris  pariter  servantur  in  artis. 

Auctor  sed  scelerum,  qui  decepit  protoplastum, 
Detestando  viri  votum  laudabile  iusti, 
Ipsius  proprium  fecit  fervescere  servum 
In  supra  dictae  dementer  amore  puellae. 
Qui  nimis  infelix,  spiculis  perfossus  amoris, 
Quo  magis  ardescit,  tanto  plus  corde  tabescit, 
Indignum  se  coniugio  meminit  quia  tanto 

40       Nee  audet  nudare  novum  cordis  cruciatum. 

Tandem  namque  magum  quaerens  invenerat  unum, 
Secretum  cui  tristitiae  monstravit  amarae, 
Promittens  illi  non  parvi  dona  lucelli, 
Si  teneram  prolis  mentem  proprii  senioris 
Eius  servili  iam  conglutinasset  amori. 
Cui  mox  perversus  fraudis  dicebat  amicus : 
"Nam  fateor  tantae  non  me  valitudinis  esse, 
Ut  servo  propriae  iungam  consortia  domnae; 
Sed,  si  rite  meo  satagis  parere  magistro, 

50       Qui  princeps  aeternarum  constat  tenebrarum, 
Ipse  potest  certe  complere  tuum  cito  velle 
Si  post  haec  Christi  nomen  non  vis  venerari." 

Cui  male  caecatus  bachanti  corde  misellus 
Se  consensurum  monitis  promiserat  istis. 
Tunc  magus  ista  suo  mandat  scribendo  magistro : 
"Princeps  inferni,  regnator  magne  profundi, 
Condecet  ergo  tuos  semper  temptare  ministros, 
Si  possint  aliquos  fontis  baptismate  lotos 
Assignare  tibi,  subtractos  de  grege  Christi, 
60       Ut,  quae  te  sequitur,  semper  pars  multiplicetur. 

63  Hinc  tibi  namque  virum  misi  gaudens  satis  istum, 

64  Eius  propositum  quo  mox  complendo  secretum 


194 


The  Basilius 

to  associate  her  with  the  holy  maidens  who  were  con- 
secrated to  Christ  by  the  sacred  veil  of  virginity  and       30 
were  protected  in  the  narrow  enclosure  of  the  mon- 
astery. 

But  the  father  of  evil  who  deceived  our  first  father, 
detesting  the  laudable  desire  of  the  just  man,  inflamed 
the  servant  of  that  man  with  a  mad  desire  for  the 
maiden.  So  sharply  was  the  unhappy  wretch  pricked 
by  the  arrows  of  passion,  that,  the  more  his  infatua- 
tion increased,  the  more  did  he  languish,  because  he 
was  aware  that  he  was  not  worthy  of  such  a  marriage, 
nor  had  he  the  audacity  to  make  known  the  strange 
anguish  of  his  heart.  40 

At  length,  however,  he  sought  out  and  found  a  magi- 
cian, to  whom  he  discovered  his  bitter,  secret  sorrow, 
promising  to  give  him  a  gift  of  no  small  value,  if 
he  would  unite  the  tender  heart  of  his  master's  daugh- 
ter to  his  own  servile  affection.  This  perverse  friend 
of  deceit  responded:  "I  do  admit  that  I  am  not  so 
powerful  as  to  join  in  wedlock  a  lady  to  her  own  ser- 
vant ;  but  if  thou  art  satisfied  duly  to  obey  my  master, 
who  is  the  prince  of  eternal  darknesses,  he  will  indeed 
be  able  to  fulfill  thy  behest  quickly,  if  after  this  thou  50 
wilt  forego  the  veneration  of  the  Name  of  Christ." 

The  wretched  man,  blinded  because  of  his  frenzied 
heart,  promised  to  agree  to  all  these  terms.  There- 
upon the  magician  commanded  him  to  write  thus  to  his 
master:  "Prince  of  the  infernal  regions,  great  ruler 
of  the  deep,  it  ever  behooves  thy  servants  to  try 
whether  they  are  able  to  assign  to  thy  service  any  one, 
washed  in  the  baptismal  laver,  who  has  been  snatched 
from  the  fold  of  Christ,  in  order  that  the  number 
which  follows  thee  may  ever  be  increased.  Therefore  60 
with  exceeding  joy  I  have  sent  to  thee  this  man,  in 
order  that,  by  presently  fulfilling  his  secret  proposal, 
thou  mayest  make  him  one  of  thy  faithful  followei-s." 
He  then  gave  to  tlie  unhappy  wretch  the  paper  which 

- 195  - 


The  Basilius 

61  Ipsum  discipulum  facias  tibi  rite  futurum." 

62  Hanc  ita  perscriptam  misero  dederat  quoque  cartam ; 

65  "Supra  gentilis  tumulum  sub  tempore  noctis 

65a     <Stans  erebi  domino  supplex  dicens  dabis  illam."> 

66  Quod  mox  praeceptum  <miser>  amplectens  male  suasum 

68  Gaudens  tendebat,  quo  se  magus  ire  iubebat, 

69  Auxilium  veteris  supplex  orando  draconis, 

70  Interitum  praebere  suis  qui  temptat  amicis. 
Nee  mora,  tartarei  cursim  venere  ministri 
Errantemque  satis  laeti  duxere  maligni 
Mox  ad  concilium  crudele  tenebricolarum. 
Illic  inventor  sceleris  cunctae  quoque  fraudis, 
Dampnandus  dampnandarum  princeps  legionum 
Consedit  medius,  corvino  milite  saeptus, 
Tendens  incautis  laqueos  clam  callidatis; 
Necnon,  insidias  evolvens  ante  repertas, 
Inquirit,  scelerum  faceret  quid  quisque  suorum. 


80  Scilicet  ut  literas  perscrutatur  sibi  missas, 

Utitur  his  verbis,  f  rendens  velut  ira  leonis, 
Perterrendo  virum  saeva  ratione  misellum : 
"Numquam  christicolae  permansistis  mihi  fidi, 
Sed,  mox  ut  vestrum  complevi  velle  iocundum, 
Protinus  ad  vestrum  fugistis  denique  Christum, 
Me  detestando  penitus  post  munera  tanta, 
Credentes  talis  certe  Christum  pietatis, 
Ut  veniam  nulli  vellet  tardare  petenti 
Reddere  conversum  mihimet  nee  post  scelus  ullum. 

90  Quapropter  domini  natae  complexibus  uti 
67       Si  cupias  licito,  Christum  prius  ore  negato 

91  Christicolisque  datum  Christi  baptisma  sacratum, 
Scilicet  et  mecum  te  velle  fatere  per  aevum 
Poenis  inferni  permansuris  cruciari; 


-196- 


The  Basilius 

he  had  inscribed  and  told  him  that  at  the  time  of 
night  he  should  take  his  place  upon  a  pagan  tomb  and, 
calling  suppliantly  upon  the  lord  of  the  world  of  dark- 
ness, should  present  the  document  to  him. 

When  he  had  yielded  to  this  ill-advised  command, 
poor  wretch,  he  hastened  joyfully  to  the  place  whither 
the  magician  had  commanded  him  to  go,  humbly  seek- 
ing the  assistance  of  that  ancient  serpent,  who  ever  at- 
tempts to  bring  about  the  ruin  of  his  followers.  Nor  70 
had  he  long  to  wait.  There  came  a  crew  of  Satan's 
ministers ;  and  with  a  joy  malignant  they  led  the  err- 
ing man  at  once  to  the  savage  assembly  where  dwell 
the  inhabitants  of  darkness.  There  the  author  of  all 
vice  and  deceit,  the  condemned  leader  of  the  con- 
demned legions,  sat  enthroned  in  the  midst,  surrounded 
by  black  soldiery  and  secretly  extending  his  snares  of 
cunning  for  the  unwary ;  and  unfolding  the  toils,  long 
since  contrived,  he  inquired  what  crimes  each  of  his 
followers  had  accomplished.  80 

And  when  indeed  he  had  scrutinized  the  letter  sent 
to  him,  he  spoke  words  like  these,  raging  as  it  were 
like  an  angry  lion,  and  terrifying  by  his  fierce  manner 
the  unhappy  man :  "Never  do  ye,  worshipers  of  Christ, 
remain  faithful  to  me,  but  as  soon  as  I  have  fulfilled 
your  pleasant  will,  straightway  do  ye  flee  again  to 
your  Christ,  loathing  me  after  the  great  gifts  I  have 
conferred,  and  believing  that  Christ  is  of  such  good- 
ness, that  He  will  not  will  to  withhold  pardon  from 
any  man  who  seeks  it,  or  render  unto  me  any  man  who 
has  been  converted,  notwithstanding  any  previous 
crime.  Wherefore  if  thou  dost  desire  to  enjoy  the  af- 
fection of  thy  master's  daughter  lawfully,  do  thou  first  90 
renounce  Christ  with  thy  lips  and  also  that  sacred 
Baptism  of  Christ  which  is  given  to  Christ-worshipers, 
and  do  thou  forsooth  confess  that  thou  art  willing 
throughout  eternity  to  endure  with  me  the  torments  of 
hell.    Extend  now  this  writing  of  thine  into  my  hands, 

-197- 


The  Basilius 

Hincque  tuis  manibus  scriptam  mihi  porrige  cartam : 
Ostendamque  citus,  quantum  possit  mea  virtus." 

His  mox  infelix  servus  monitis  male  captus 
Scribebat  proprium  ridenti  pectore  damnum 
Interitusque  sui  causam  tetro  dedit  hosti. 
Qui  mox,  dampnando  nimium  gaudens  super  illo, 
100     Laeto  tartareos  emisit  corde  ministros, 

Virginis  ut  miserae  mentem  facerent  in  amore 
Incesto  proprii  citius  fervescere  servi. 

Ut  mens  blanditiis  fragilis  pulsatur  amoris, 
Exclamat  subito  magna  de  stirpe  creata, 
Optans  praestari  sibimet  consortia  servi, 
Atque  patri  proprio  profudit  talia  verba: 
"lam  miserere  tuae,  genitor  dulcissime,  natae, 
Et  citius  meme  iuveni,  quem  diligo,  trade, 
Ne  moriar,  tristis  languens  per  taedia  cordis." 


110         His  pater  auditis  lacrimis  dicebat  amaris: 

*'Heu  heu,  quid  pateris  vetuli  spes  unica  patris? 
Die,  rogo,  quis  verbis  te  decepit  male  blandis, 
Vel  quis  blanditiis  circumvenit  simulatis? 
Nonne,  tibi  patriam  reddi  cupiendo  supernam, 
Sponso  caelesti  Christo  te  denique  vovi, 
Hunc  casta  solum  coleres  quo  mente  per  aevum 
Illius  et  laudes  cum  caelicolis  resonares, 
Addita  virgineis  mortis  post  vincula  turmis: 
Et  tu  lascivi  fervescis  amore  famelli ! 

120     At  nunc  submissa,  soboles  mea,  voce  rogabo, 
Finem  stultitiae  pergas  ut  reddere  tantae, 
Ne  genus  omne  tuum  male  confundas  generosum. 
Si  tamen  in  coepto  temptas  durare  maligno, 
Turpiter  absque  mora  peries,  dulcissima  proles!" 


198- 


The  Basilius 

and  I  will  show  thee  speedily  how  much  my  power  is 
able  to  prevail." 

The  wretched  sei^ant,  so  foully  ensnared  by  this 
admonition,  signed  his  own  condemnation  with  a  glad 
heart  and  returned  to  his  hateful  host  the  document 
of  his  own  perdition.  The  evil  one,  rejoicing  exceed- 
ingly at  his  victim's  destruction,  with  gloating  mind  100 
sent  out  his  hellish  ministers  to  cause  the  heart  of  that 
hapless  maiden  to  be  at  once  inflamed  with  a  wicked 
love  for  her  own  servant. 

And  when  her  frail  heart  had  been  smitten  with  the 
flatteries  of  passion,  on  a  sudden  the  maiden,  daugh- 
ter of  noble  stock  though  she  was,  cried  out,  desiring 
to  bestow  herself  as  spouse  upon  a  sei-vant;  and  in 
the  presence  of  her  father,  she  poured  forth  her  heart 
in  these  words :  "Do  thou,  0  sweetest  of  fathers,  have 
compassion  on  thy  daughter  and  give  me  without  delay 
to  this  youth  whom  I  love,  lest  I  die,  languishing 
through  the  weariness  of  a  grieving  heart." 

The  father,  hearing  this,  replied  with  bitter  tears : 
"Woe  is  me,  what  are  thou  experiencing,  sole  hope  of  110 
thine  aged  father?  Tell  me,  I  pray,  who  is  it  that  has 
deceived  thee  so  wickedly  with  flattering  speech,  or 
has  encompassed  thee  with  lying  compliments  ?  Was  it 
not  with  a  desire  that  I  might  restore  thee  to  the  heav- 
enly fatherland,  that  I  have  dedicated  thee  to  Christ, 
the  Celestial  Bridegroom,  in  order  that  thou  mightest 
chastely  cherish  him  alone  in  thy  heart  for  all  eternity, 
and  sing  with  the  denizens  of  heaven  the  praises  of  thy 
Spouse,  when  joined  after  the  bonds  of  death  to  the 
choir  of  virgins?  And  now  thou  art  aglow  with  pas-  120 
sion  for  a  wanton  slave!  But  now,  my  child,  I  entreat 
thee  with  humble  voice,  that  thou  mayest  hasten  to  put 
an  end  to  such  folly,  lest  thou  disgrace  so  perniciously 
thy  whole  noble  race.  If  however,  thou  seekest  to 
persist  in  thy  vicious  undertaking,  thou  wilt,  my  most 
sweet  child,  perish  without  delay." 

-199- 


The  Basilius 

Quae  nam,  consilium  penitus  spernendo  paternum, 
Vultu  mordaci  proprio  dixit  genitori: 
"Si  complere  meum  tardabis  denique  votum, 
Comperies  caram  citius  prolem  morituram." 
Tunc  senior,  non  sponte,  minis  devictus  amaris, 
130     Tradiderat  sobolis  servo  consortia  dulcis, 
Condonans  substantiolam  pariter  pretiosam 
Ipsis;  hinc  animo  natae  dicebat  amaro: 
"Infelix  non  felicis  tu  nata  parentis, 
Dedecus  atque  dolor  matris  temet  parientis, 
Totius  et  nostri  generis  confusio  turpis, 
Congaude  iam  nunc  servo  miserae  tibi  caro: 
At  post  aeternis  poenis  maerens  capieris!" 

Tali  coniugio  Satanae  cum  fraude  peracto, 
Condoluit  Christus  mundi  Salvator  amandus, 

140     Quos  pius  effusa  salvavit  sanguinis  unda, 
Hostis  sub  diri  vinclis  captos  retineri; 
Et  placet  auxilium  lapsis  praestare  benignum. 
Scilicet  erranti  mox  narratur  mulieri. 
Quod  non  catholicus  fuerit  coniux  miser  eius 
Nee  limen  templi  vellet  pede  tangere  sancti, 
Se  quia  serpentis  iuri  tradebat  avari, 
Sacra  negans  rectae  fidei  nomen  quoque  Christi. 
Quae  se  deceptam  cognoscens  esse  misellam, 
Auribus  intentis  ut  sensit  verba  loquentis, 

150     In  terram  cecidit  membris  tremefacta  solutis 
Eruit  et  proprios  summo  de  vertice  pilos, 
Necnon  verberibus  pulsavit  sedulo  pectus. 
Cum  lacrimis  tales  spargens  super  aethera  voces : 
"Quisquis  praedulces  non  vult  audire  parentes, 
Numquam  salvatur!  quod  hac  ratione  probatur. 
Heu,  heu,  splendorem  diei  cur  nata  recepi, 
Vel  cur  continuo  non  sum  concessa  sepulchro, 
Infelix  foveam  caderem  ne  mortis  in  atram!" 


200- 


The  Basilius 

But  she,  despising  utterly  this  paternal  counsel,  said 
with  surly  mien  to  her  sire :  "If  then  thou  wilt  hesitate 
to  grant  my  wish,  thou  wilt  soon  find  that  thy  cher- 
ished child  has  perished  even  sooner."  Then  indeed 
the  old  man,  not  willingly,  but  vanquished  by  those 
bitter  threats,  bestowed  his  beloved  child  as  wife  upon 
the  servant,  granting  them  at  the  same  time  an  abund- 
ance of  wealth.  Then  he  addressed  the  girl  in  the  sad-  130 
ness  of  his  heart:  "Unhappy  daughter  of  an  unhappy 
father,  the  disgrace  and  sorrow  of  the  mother  who 
bore  thee,  the  utter  confusion  of  our  whole  lineage! 
Rejoice  now  in  thy  loved  slave,  wretched  one;  but 
hereafter  thou  wilt  with  lamentation  be  overtaken  by 
eternal  punishment!" 

After  this  union  had  been  brought  about  through 
the  treachery  of  the  devil,  Christ,  the  lovable  Savior 
of  the  world,  grieved  that  those  whom  he  had  gracious-  140 
ly  redeemed  with  the  flowing  stream  of  His  Blood, 
were  now  held  in  the  bonds  of  the  dreadful  enemy,  and 
so  it  pleased  Him  to  offer  His  kindly  assistance  to  the 
fallen.  For  it  was  soon  carried  to  the  erring  woman 
that  her  hapless  consort  was  not  a  Catholic  and  did  not 
care  to  step  upon  the  threshold  of  the  sacred  temple, 
because  he  had  surrendered  himself  into  the  power  of 
the  greedy  serpent,  thus  denying  the  sacred  rites  of 
the  true  faith  and  even  the  Name  of  Christ.  The 
wretched  woman,  realizing  that  she  had  been  deceived, 
when  she  heard  with  close  attention  the  story  of  her 
infoiTnant,  fell  tremblingly  upon  the  ground  with  150 
limbs  relaxed  and  she  tore  the  hair  from  the  crown  of 
her  head  and  readily  struck  her  breast  with  blows, 
sending  amid  tears  such  cries  to  heaven :  "He  who  does 
not  choose  to  listen  to  his  well-beloved  parents  will 
never  be  saved.  This  has  been  proved  in  the  present 
sad  affair.  Alas,  woe  is  me,  why  did  I  at  birth  receive 
the  light  of  day,  or  why  was  I  not  immediately  as- 
signed to  my  grave,  that  I  might  not  fall  into  the  dark 
abyss  of  death  and  therefore  be  wretched  forever?" 

-201- 


The  Basilius 

Haec  dum  tristitia  dicebat  continuata, 
160     Coniunx  illius  subito  venit  scelerosus 
Et  de  se  falsas  iuravit  res  fore  dictas. 
Quae  mox  constant!  respondet  voce  neganti: 
"Si  reus  ingentis  culpae  iam  denique  non  sis, 
Laetus  ad  ecclesiam  mecum  eras  pergito  sanctam 
Illic  et  sanctae  celebra  sollempnia  missae." 
Qua  mox  devictus  iusta  ratione  misellus 
Causam  commissi  narravit  namque  piacli. 
Illaque,  mollitiem  iam  deponens  muliebrem 
Et  sumens  vires  prudenti  corde  viriles, 
170     Mox  ad  Basilium  currebat  namque  beatum; 
Necnon,  vestigiis  coram  prostrata  sacratis, 
Utitur  his  verbis  turbato  pectore  fusis: 
"Sancte  Dei,  clemens  nobis  succurre  misellis 
Et  trahe  de  tetris  saevi  nos  faucibus  hostis. 
Qui  nostras  fragiles  iactat  se  perdere  mentes!" 
Cumque  modum  culpae  denudavit  sibi  tantae, 
Vertitur  ad  servum  praesul  Domini  scelerosum 
Ac  coepit  verbis  ilium  rogitare  benignis. 
Post  scelus  ad  Christum  vellet  si  vertere  sensum. 
180     Qui,  se  salvari  desperans,  dixerat  illi: 
"Si  posset  fieri,  voluissem  mente  libenti ; 
Sed  restat  menti  sceleris  res  facta  volenti. 
Me  quia  per  literas  hosti  dederam  male  scriptas 
Et  nomen  Christi  caecato  corde  negavi." 


Ad  quem  vir  Domini :    "Curam  tibi  fingere  noli, 
Ceu  tibi  sit  veniae  penitus  spes  dempta  petendae. 
Unicus  ergo  patris,  index  mitissimus  orbis, 
Ad  se  conversum  qui  numquam  respuit  ullum, 
Si  defies  culpam,  gaudet  praestare  medelam. 
190     Hinc  iam  mortiferum  peccati  linque  profundum 
Necnon  ad  certum  pietatis  confuge  portum. 
Ad  se  tendentes  qui  salvos  suscipit  omnes." 
His  igitur  miserum  monitis  correxit  homullum, 

-202- 


The  Basilius 

While  she  thus  spoke  with  unremitting  grief,  her 
wicked  consort  came  suddenly  upon  her  and  swore  that 
the  charges  spoken  concerning  him  were  false.  But  160 
she  responded  in  a  firm  voice  in  the  face  of  his  denial : 
"If  thou  art  not  guilty  of  this  sin  so  heinous,  then 
come  with  me  joyfully  tomorrow  to  the  sacred  temple, 
and  attend  there  the  solemnities  of  the  Holy  Mass." 
Conquered  by  this  just  demand,  the  unhappy  man  told 
her  why  he  had  committed  this  crime. 

And  she,  putting  aside  her  womanish  weakness  and 
assuming  manly  courage  with  prudent  heart,  hastened 
at  once  to  Blessed  Basilius,  and  prostrating  herself  be-  170 
fore  his  holy  feet,  she  employed  these  words,  pouring 
them  forth  from  her  troubled  breast:  "Holy  man  of 
God,  hasten  mercifully  to  aid  us  in  our  distress,  and 
draw  us  from  the  foul  jaws  of  the  savage  enemy  who 
boasts  that  he  can  destroy  our  frail  souls." 

And  after  she  had  disclosed  to  him  the  nature  of 
that  great  crime,  the  bishop  turned  to  the  wicked  ser- 
vant and  began  to  ask  him  in  kindly  words,  whether 
after  his  fall  he  willed  to  convert  his  affection  to 
Christ.  But  the  man,  despairing  of  salvation,  re- 
sponded :  "If  such  a  thing  were  possible,  I  would  have  180 
willed  it  with  a  glad  heart.  But  there  stands  against 
my  willingness  the  fact  of  the  sin,  since  I  gave  myself 
to  the  fiend  by  means  of  a  contract  foully  signed  and 
with  heart  blinded  denied  the  Name  of  Christ." 

Hereupon  the  man  of  God  made  answer :  "Will  not 
to  feign  distress  for  thyself  as  though  for  thee  all  hope 
of  seeking  pardon  were  utterly  lost.  The  only  Son  of 
the  Father,  the  most  meek  Judge  of  the  world.  Who 
has  never  despised  any  one  converted  to  Him,  if  thou 
wilt  bewail  thy  fault,  rejoices  to  grant  assistance.  Do 
thou  therefore  forsake  this  death-bearing  depth  of  sin,  190 
and  do  thou  take  refuge  in  the  Port  of  Goodness,  Who 
receiveth  and  saveth  all  who  hasten  to  Him."  With 
these  counsels  he  set  aright  the  unhappy  man,  and  shut 

-203- 


The  Basilms 

Necnon  sponte  suo  nigro  conclusit  in  antro, 
Illic  ut  sordes  licito  defleret  inormes. 

Post  tres  ergo  dies  iterum  veniebat  ad  ilium, 
Inquirens,  talem  si  posset  ferre  laborem. 
Qui,  lassus  nimium,  verbis  responderat  istis : 
"Poenas  spirituum  patior  vix  namque  nigrorum, 

200     Me  quia  continuis  attrectant  namque  flagellis 
Atque  petunt  iaculis  lapidum  saepissime  duris. 
Insuper  obprobriis  obponunt  semper  amaris, 
Quod  non  invitus  pridem,  sed  gratis  adirem 
Illos,  ipsorum  sine  vi  me  dans  ditioni." 
Tunc  animae  medicus  languescentis  bene  doctus 
Lassatum  refici  iussit  statimque  recessit. 
Post  tempus  parvum  veniebat  denique  rursum, 
Quaerens,  obscuro  quid  tunc  pateretur  in  antro. 
Qui  dixit:     "Certe  melius  valeo,  pater  alme, 

210     Longius  horribiles  tantum  quia  sentio  voces." 
Hinc  praesul,  laetus  secreto  pectore  f actus, 
Egreditur  iuxta  morem  faciendo  priorem. 
Tandem  post  spatium  veniens  quadraginta  dierum, 
In  quis  peccatum  lapsus  deflevit  amarum, 
Invenit  laetum,  quem  credebat  fore  maestum; 
Et  cum  laetitiam  miraretur  sibi  caram, 
Peccator  lacrimis  iam  mundatus  bene  largis 
Et  certus  veniae  sancto  dicebat  amandae: 

220     "Spero  quidem  per  te  me  salvari,  pater  alme, 
In  somnis  quia  te  vidi  luctamen  inire 
Pro  me  cum  saevo  necnon  serpente  maligno: 
Quem  tu  vicisti  subito  virtute  supema." 


Auribus  intentis  ut  sensit  verba  loquentis 
Antistes,  laudem  Christi  cecinit  pietati 
Extraxitque  loco  captivi  membra  nigello 
Et  locat  in  propria  noctis  sub  tempore  cella. 
Quae  fuit  ecclesiae  lateri  coniuncta  sacratae; 
Illic  et  plebem  iussit  coire  fidelem. 


204 


gratefully  arknamUbgr  tl;;  ttttift 
of 

from 


for 


PrraUirat 

19 — 


The  Basilius 

him  up  with  his  consent  in  his  dark  cave,  so  that  there 
unmolested  he  might  bewail  his  lawless  deed. 

After  three  days  the  saint  came  to  him,  inquiring 
whether  he  was  able  to  bear  this  hardship,  and  the 
man,  exceedingly  wearied  responded:  "It  is  with  dif- 
ficulty that  I  endure  the  torments  of  the  dark  spirits, 
who  smite  me  with  uninterrupted  lashings  and  attack 
me  very  often  by  pelting  me  with  hard  stones.  Besides,  200 
they  heap  upon  me  bitter  reproaches,  because  erst- 
while without  reluctance  but  freely  I  approached  them, 
giving  myself  without  compulsion  into  their  service." 
Then  that  learned  physician  of  languishing  souls  com- 
manded the  wearied  man  to  be  of  good  cheer  and 
thereupon  straightway  left  him. 

After  a  brief  space  of  time  he  came  again,  inquiring 
what  he  was  now  undergoing  in  that  hidden  grotto. 
The  man  replied :  "I  am,  fostering  father,  faring  better 
indeed,  for  now  it  is  only  at  a  distance  that  I  hear 
their  dread  threats."  The  bishop  upon  this  was  very  210 
happy  in  his  secret  heart  and  left,  doing  just  as  he 
was  wont  to  do. 

Finally  after  a  space  of  forty  days,  during  which  the 
penitent  had  bewailed  his  heinous  crime,  the  bishop 
came  and  found  him  joyful,  though  he  had  expected  to 
find  him  disconsolate.  When  he  had  expressed  his 
wonder  at  this  blessed  happiness,  the  sinner,  who  was 
now  well  purified  by  abundant  tears  and  certain  of  de- 
sirable forgiveness,  said  to  the  saint :  "I  trust  indeed, 
tender  father,  that  through  thee  I  shall  be  saved,  for  in  220 
my  sleep  I  saw  thee  enter  into  combat  for  me  even  with 
that  cruel  and  envious  serpent,  which  thou  didst  sud- 
denly vanquish  by  supernatural  power." 

As  he  listened  to  these  words  with  ears  attentive, 
the  bishop  sang  the  praises  of  the  tender  Christ ;  and 
then,  leading  forth  the  captive  from  the  black  cave, 
he  placed  him  at  night  in  his  own  cell,  which  was  an- 
nexed to  the  sacred  Church,  and  there  he  commanded 
the  faithful  flock  to  assemble,  so  that  likewise  they 

-205- 


The  Basilius 

Ut  pariter  preculis  pernoctarent  studiosis, 
230     Quo  bonus  errantem  per  consuetam  pietatem 
Pastor  ovem  turmis  proprii  iunxisset  ovilis. 
Ortus  cumque  nigras  noctis  sol  expulit  umbras, 
Dextra  praedicti  comprensa  praesul  homulli 
Intrat  in  ecclesiam  secum  quoque  duxerat  ipsum. 

Ut  limen  sacris  tetigit  venerabile  plantis, 
Affuit  insidiis  latitans  clam  daemon  amaris 
Attraxit  virum  magna  vi  denique  rursum, 
Illius  arrepta  secreta  fraude  sinistra. 
Ad  quem  Basilius,  forti  mandamine  functus: 

240     "Inprobe  fur,  regis  facturam  redde  perennis 
Et  furto  raptam  victus  cito  desere  praedam!" 
Cui  mox  communis  cunctorum  dixerat  hostis, 
Perversis  vacuas  implens  latratibus  auras : 
"Cur  satagis  proprium  mihimet  vi  tollere  servum, 
Qui  sua  sponte  meis  submissit  colla  catenis? 
Cartam  percerte,  mihimet  quam  reddidit  ipse, 
Tempore  iudicii  Christo  monstrabo  futuri." 
Cui  sanctus  rursum  reddebat  tale  responsum: 
"Ipsius  Christi  praecepto,  iudicis  aequi, 

250     Reddere  litterulas  spero  te  protinus  ipsas." 
His  igitur  dictis,  oravit  turba  fidelis 
Altithronum  preculis  devoto  pectore  fusis, 
Fidum  pastorem  quo  confortaret  in  hostem. 
Nee  mora,  de  summo  cecidit  scriptura  dolosa 
Ante  pedes  sancti  necnon  pastoris  amandi. 


Tunc  plebs  corde  pio  gaudens  cum  praesule  digno 
Sparsit  adusque  polum  voces  cum  carmine  laudum, 
Conlaudens  Christum  solita  pietate  benignum, 
Qui  captum  veteris  retraxit  ab  ore  leonis. — 
260     Nos  quoque  plaudentes  spargamus  ad  aethera  voces, 
Laudantes  Dominum  ridenti  pectore  Christum, 


206 


The  Basilius 

might  spend  the  night  in  sedulous  prayers,  to  the  end 
that  the  Good  Shepherd  according  to  his  wonted  ten-  230 
derness  might  join  the  wandering  sheep  to  His  own 
Sheepfold.  When  the  rising  sun  had  dispelled  the  black 
shades  of  night,  the  bishop,  taking  the  hand  of  the  sin- 
ner, entered  the  Church,  leading  him  also  with  him. 

When  he  had  touched  the  venerated  threshold  with 
his  sacred  feet,  the  demon,  who  was  in  hiding  there 
in  hateful  ambush,  dragged  the  man  back  with  great 
force,  having  seized  his  left  hand  in  sly  cunning. 
Basilius  accosted  him  with  great  vehemence:  "Wicked 
thief,  restore  the  handiwork  of  the  Eternal  King,  and  240 
vanquished  speedily  surrender  the  prey  thou  hast  fur- 
tively seized !"  But  the  universal  enemy  of  mankind 
made  response  whilst  he  filled  the  quiet  air  with  ac- 
cursed bellowings :  "Why  art  thou  intent  upon  taking 
from  me  by  force  my  own  servant,  who  of  his  own  ac- 
cord has  submitted  his  neck  to  my  fetters?  The  very 
document  which  he  himself  has  given  me  I  will  show 
to  Christ  at  the  time  of  the  Judgment  that  is  to  come." 
The  saint  made  ready  response :  "By  the  command  of 
that  very  Christ,  the  equitable  Judge,  I  trust  that  250 
forthwith  thou  wilt  restore  those  writings."  After  he 
had  said  this,  the  faithful  assembly  begged  the  Most 
High,  with  prayers  poured  from  devoted  hearts,  that 
He  might  strengthen  the  loyal  shepherd  against  the 
foe.  Nor  was  there  any  delay :  from  on  high  fell  the 
fatal  document  before  the  feet  of  the  loved  shepherd. 

Then  the  people,  rejoicing  affectionately  with  their 
worthy  bishop,  sent  even  to  the  heavens  voices  in 
hymns  of  praise,  extolling  the  loving  Christ,  Who  with 
His  wonted  Goodness  had  snatched  the  captive  from 
the  jaws  of  that  ancient  lion. 

Let    us    therefore    send    our    loud    voices    to    the     260 
skies,  praising  Christ,  the  Lord  God,    with    joyful 

-207- 


The  Bdsilius 

Qui  nobis  clemens  talem  veniae  tribuit  spem. 

Ipsi  namque  decus  soli,  victoria,  virtus, 

Laudum  cantamen  maneatque  perenniter.    Amen. 


208- 


The  Basilius 

hearts,  Who  in  His  mercy  has  given  to  us  such  a  happy- 
hope  of  pardon. 

Therefore  to  Him  alone  be  glory,  victory,  power, 
and  songs  of  praise,  world  without  end.    Amen. 


NOTES  ON  THE  BASILIUS 

This  legend  was  inappropriately  called  Proterixis  by  Conrad  Celtes. 
The  title  as  found  in  extant  Mss.  is  Conversio  Cuiusdam  Juvenis 
Desperati  per  S.  Basilium  Episcopxim.  But  this  title  was  added  by  a 
hand  in  the  fifteenth  century.  Apparently  Hrosvitha  began  the  story 
without  a  title  or  simply  called  it  BasiliiLs.  She  seems  to  have  used  a 
Vita  of  the  ninth  century,  composed  in  prose  by  the  subdeacon  Ursus. 
The  version  is  not  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum  of  the  Bollandists.  Consult 
Ebert  3:46. 

In  this  legend,  as  in  that  of  Theophilus,  the  theme  is  a  conflict 
between  the  powers  of  Darkness  and  those  of  Light. 

It  is  noteworthy  that,  in  each  instance,  it  is  only  then  when  the 
victim  has  renounced  his  Baptismal  vows,  that  he  falls  under 
the  dominion  of  the  evil  spirits.  Dorer  (56-64)  draws  an  interesting 
parallel  between  the  great  powers,  that  of  Darkness  and  that  of  Light. 
As  in  the  last-named  the  miracle  finds  a  means  of  revealing  the 
original  conquest  of  spirit  over  nature,  so  too  did  the  powers  of 
Darkness  generate  the  Black  Art,  which  in  hellish  envy  attempts  to 
subjugate  nature  to  its  evil  sway. 

About  the  King  of  Heaven  there  is  assembled  a  white-robed  throng 
of  ministering  spirits  seeking  to  carry  out  their  Creator's  every  wi.sh 
and  to  assist  Him  in  saving  the  souls  redeemed  by  Him.  About  the 
Prince  of  Darkness  there  are  also  ministering  spirits,  intent  only 
on  snatching  from  the  Savior  the  souls  He  so  dearly  purchased. 

A  Father  of  the  Church  remarks  that  'in  every  passion  there  lies 
hid  a  demon.'  (Quoted  by  Dorer  39).  In  the  miracle  of  Saint  Basilius, 
the  demon  is  unbridled  passion,  which  demands  a  reciprocal  affection 
and  which,  by  blinding  its  votaries,  leads  them  into  the  toils  of 
Satan. 

This  legend  and  the  two  following  seem  to  form  a  separate  series 
from  the  foregoing  five  legends,  and  they  were  probably  composed 
at  a  later  period  than  these.  They  are  introduced  by  a  dedication  to 
Gerberga,  which  consists  of  three  elegiac  couplets.  Then  follows  a 
eulogy  of  ten  lines  extolling  the  great  Goodness  of  God  toward  the 

-209- 


The  Basilius 

repentant  sinner,  and  urging  us  to  peruse  the  legend  and  convince 
ourselves  of  the  truth  of  this  Goodness. 

1.  domna:  compare  note  to  Theoph.  436. 

2.  praescriptis :  would  make  excellent  sense  also  as  "hitherto  writ- 
ten." 

carmina   carminulis:   note    the   assonance;    also   the    fact   that 
carmina  and  carminulis  have  apparently  the  same  exact  sense. 

3.  meruit :  .  note  the  indicative  in  an  indirect  question. 
6.         For  parallel  thought,  compare  Theoph.  379. 

10.       mulieris:  the  penult  is  long,  as  generally  in  mediaeval  Latin. 

13.       For  parallel  thought,  compare  Theoph.  150. 

15.       stare:  evidently  a  stronger  form  for  esse;  compare  munsit,  verse 

24.     Stare  for  esse  is  frequent  in  Lucretius   (thus  1.564,  1054; 

3.409;  6.1058). 

gauclens  gaudebit:  note  the  assonance;    compare  also  gavisi  sunt 

gaudio,  Mt.  2.10. 
17.       Basilius:  note  the  quantities. 
20-22.     For  parallel  thought,  compare  Theoph.  3-5. 

23.  For  parallel  expression,  compare  Gest.  445. 

24.  substantiolae :  not  diminutive  in  sense. 
m,ansit:  compare  stare,  verse  15  . 

ornari:  note  the  infinitive  after  optans;   see   Menge,  Repetito- 
rium  sec.  426,  Anm. 
28.       gemmis  virginitatis :  compare  Asc.  91. 

30.  curavit  sociare :  euro  with  infinitive;  compare  Cic,  Tusc.  5.87; 
Hor.,  AP.  133. 

31.  velamine  sacro:  thus  also  Agn.  10;  Prim.  322;  compare  also 
note  to  Asc.  1. 

33.  qui  decepit  protoplastum :  compare  "qui  protoplastos  prostravit," 
Abr.  7.3.  The  first  syllable  of  protoplastum  is  short;  metri 
causa. 

37.  spiculis  perfossus  amoris:  for  parallel  expression,  compare  Agn. 
Ill;  the  first  syllable  of  spiculis  is  short;  metri  causa. 

48.       domnae:  compare  verse  1. 

44.       senioris:  "elder" — hence,  "master,  lord." 

50.  constat:    stronger  word  for  est;     compare  mansit,  verse  24. 

51.  tiium  velle:  infinitive  used  as  a  substantive;  compare  Bas.  84; 
Theoph.  42. 

58.       lotos  baptismate  fontis :  for  the  theme,  compare  note  to  Gong.  35. 

60-70.  There  is  some  diversity  of  view  among  critics  as  to  the  order 
of  succession  in  these  verses.  The  present  arrangement  seems 
logical.  So  too,  do  some  critics  indicate  lacunae  before  and 
after  verse  65.  Barack  and  Schurzfleisch  insert  the  verse  after 
line  65;  I  have  followed  them,  even  though  the  verse  does  not 
retain  the  homoeoteleuton  of  the  author's  scheme.  Compare 
note  in  Strecker,  App.  crit.  83. 

-210- 


The  Basilius 

69.       orando :  gerund  for  present  participle,  as  very  frequently. 

71.       tartarei  ministri:  compare  Bas.  100;  Prud.,  Harm.  957. 

75.       dampnandus   dampnandarum :     note   the    assonance;      see   also 

note  to  Mar.  41. 
81.       velut  ira  leonis:   the  noun  ira  for  a  participle  or  adjective. 

utitur  his  verbis:  compare  Bas.  172;  Agn.  316;  Prim.  133. 

83.  christicolae.  .  fidi:  Strecker  suggests  Christicoli;  this  would  pre- 
serve the  homoeoteleuton  with  fidi. 

84.  iocundum  velle:  infinitive  used  as  a  substantive;  compare  note 
on  verse  51;  the  first  syllable  of  iocundum  is  short;  metri 
causa. 

85.  denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 

88.       For  the  theme,  compare  Bas.  188-189. 

90.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Theoph.  253;  Agn.  106;  Dulc. 
4.2. 

97.  ridenti  pectore:  compare  Bas.  261;  Ekkh.,  Walth.  742;  Agn. 
256. 

98.  tetro  hosti:  more  correctly  taetro  hosti;  compare  Cic,  Tu£c. 
4.45;  Verg.,  Aen.  10.727. 

100.     tartareos  ministros:  compare  note  on  verse  71;  further,  Verg., 

Aen.  6.395;  7.328. 
105.     praestari:  see  note  on  omari,  verse  28. 

sibimet:  compare  Theoph.  note  on  verse  213. 

117.  caelicolis:  compare  note  on  Mar.  489. 

118.  virgineis  turmis:  compare  note  on  Mar.  44. 

124.  absque  mora:  compare  Mar.  489. 

125.  spemendo:  gerund  for  present  participle. 

126.  vultu  mordaci:  unusual  combination. 

127.  denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 
130.  tradiderat:  pluperfect  for  perfect. 
143.  mulieri:  compare  note  to  verse  10. 
147.  quoque:  metri  explendi  causa. 

149.  For  parallel  expression,  compare  verse  223. 

153.  spargens  super  aethera  voces:  compare  Theoph.  297. 

155.  quod  hac:  quod  is  here  long;     perhaps  'h'  is  consonantal. 

157.  Note  the  alliteration. 

164.  pergito:   the  last  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 
162.  constanti  voce:  with  either  respondit  or  neganti. 

165.  solempnia:  compare  note  on  Mar.  41;  for  parallel  expression,  see 
Diony.  172. 

167.     piacli:  compare  note  on  Theoph.  194. 
171.     vestigiis:  the  second  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 
174.     tetns  faucibus:  compare  note  on  verse  98. 
180.     dixerat:  pluperfect  for  perfect. 

181-182.  Compare  mente  libenti  with  menti  volenti;  the  latter  may 
possibly  be  abl.  with  facta. 

-211- 


The  Bdsilius 

183.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Theoph.  869. 

184.  caecato  corde:  compare  Theoph.  82. 

186.  spes  dempta:  compare  Lucret.  2.421;   Ovid,  T.  3.11.2. 

187-188.     Compare  Bos.  88-89. 

194.  sponte:  hard  to  account  for  as  it  stands;     ordinarily  it  would 

refer  to  the  subject  of  conclusit. 

196.  ergo:  metri  explendi  causa. 

203.  gratis:  the  last  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

212.  faciendo:  for  the  present  participle. 

220.  luctamen  inire:  compare  Agn.  38;  Prud.,  Psychom.  176. 

223.  For  parallel  expression,  compare  Bas.  149. 

231.  iunxisset:  pluperfect  for  the  imperfect  subjunctive. 

250.  litterulas:  not  diminutive  in  meaning. 

254.  nee  mora:  compare  note  to  Theoph.  157. 

260.  spargamus  ad  aethera  voces:  compare  note  to  verse  153. 

261.  ridenti  pectore:  so  also  verse  97;  Mar.  263. 


-212- 


PASSIO  SANCTI  DIONISII  EGREGII  MARTIRIS. 

Dum  factor  summae,  mediae  rationis  et  imae 
In  cruce  supplicium  mortis  pateretur  amarum, 
Orbem  nocturnae  circumduxere  tenebrae, 
Et  sol,  deposito  radii  splendore  sereni, 
Exequias  Domini  celebrat  famulamine  tristi. 
Quo  mox  astrologus  viso  Dyonisius  almus, 
Qui  tunc  Memphitidis  artem  discebat  in  oris, 
Quae  docet  astrorum  motus  solis  quoque  cursum. 
Obstupuit  libris  coepitque  requirere  lectis, 

10       Si  tunc  eclypsis  posset  consistere  solis, 

Ast  ubi  non  solitas  sensit  magus  esse  tenebras, 
Descripsisse  diem  dignum  ducebat  et  annum, 
Non  dubitans  designari  quid  forte  stupendi, 
Quod  post  mysterium  declarasset  tenebrarum; 
Coniectatque  Deum  signis  testantibus  almis 
Actenus  ignotum  mundo  mox  esse  probandum. 
Ast  ubi,  de  rivis  praefatae  debrius  artis, 
Athenas  petiit  sedem  patriamque  revisit, 
Inter  stultorum  simulachra  profana  deorum 

20       Culte  constructam  poni  praeceperat  aram, 

Hanc  ipsam  titulis  decernens  congrue  pictis 
Ignoti  sub  honore  Dei  debere  sacrari. 
Quam  doctor  Paulus  cum  conspexisset  opimus, 
Quis  sit  hie  ignotus,  verbis  rogitabat  amicis. 
Urbis  cum  primus  Dyonisius  ipse  beatus 
Exposuit  causam,  pro  qua  construxerat  aram ; 
Et  sic,  alternis  certantibus  ergo  loquelis. 
Qui  fuit  incredulus,  fidei  cessit  bene  victus. 


Post  haec  egressus,  caeco  dat  lumina  Paulus, 
30       Quern  properare  quidem  citius  praecepit  in  urbem. 

-214- 


THE  PASSION  OF  SAINT  DIONYSIUS, 
THE  ILLUSTRIOUS  MARTYR. 

Whilst  the  Creator  of  the  highest,  the  middle,  and 
the  lowest  worlds  was  suffering  upon  the  Cross  the  bit- 
ter penalty  of  death,  nocturnal  darkness  surrounded 
the  earth ;  and  the  sun,  having  doffed  the  splendor  of 
its  brilliant  rays,  was  commemorating  in  mournful 
service  the  death  of  its  Lord.  When  this  was  noticed 
by  Dionysius,  the  benevolent  astronomer,  who  was  at 
that  time  learning  in  the  region  of  Memphis  the  art 
which  teaches  the  motion  of  the  stars  and  the  sun's 
course,  he  was  dumbfounded  and  he  set  about  search- 
ing diligently  in  his  books  to  ascertain  whether  it  were 
possible  that  at  such  a  season  an  eclipse  of  the  sun  10 
could  come  to  pass.  But  when  this  wise  man  realized 
that  this  darkness  was  unusual,  he  thought  it  proper  to 
note  this  day  and  year,  not  doubting  that  perchance 
some  stupendous  prodigy  was  being  pointed  out,  which 
the  mysterious  darkness  had  declared,  and  he  con- 
jectured that  by  these  propitious  omens,  some  God  as 
yet  unknown  was  presently  to  be  manifested  to  the 
world.  But  as  he  had  drunk  deep  from  the  streams  of 
that  art  of  which  I  made  mention,  he  had  set  out 
towards  Athens  and  revisited  his  native  home;  he 
commanded  that  an  altar,  beautifully  built,  be  erected  20 
in  the  midst  of  the  pagan  images  of  the  witless  gods, 
deciding  that  it  should  be  ornamented  with  an  inscrip- 
tion duly  incised,  and  that  it  be  dedicated  to  the  honor 
of  the  "Unknown  God."  Wlien  the  noble  Paul,  teacher 
of  the  Gentiles  saw  this  altar,  he  asked  in  kindly  words 
who  this  "Unknown  God"  was.  Then  the  blessed 
Dionysius  was  the  first  to  explain  to  him  the  reason 
why  he  had  erected  this  altar ;  and  finally  by  contro- 
versial discussion,  he  who  had  hitherto  been  unbeliev- 
ing yielded,  happily  vanquished  to  the  Faith. 

Saint  Paul,  going  out  after  this  event,  gave  sight 
to  a  blind  man,  and  bade  him  forthwith  to  hasten  at      30 

-215- 


The  Dionysius 

Hunc  functum  ceniens  praedictus  lumine  princeps 
Et  credens  signo  divino  numine  facto, 
Festinat  subito  Damari  cum  coniuge  cara 
Pergere,  quo  Paulum  cognoverat  esse  beatum, 
Ipsius  multa  iuris  comitante  caterva. 
Qui  pariter  <cuncti>  sacro  baptismate  tincti, 
Prorsus  delicti  mundantur  sorde  veterni; 
Et,  qui  dux  plebis  fueiat  simulachra  colentis, 
Praesul  catholico  praeponitur  ergo  popello. 


40  Hie,  praesul  factus,  mira  bonitate  decorus, 

Sedulus  officium  bene  complevit  sibi  iunctum, 
Absentes  scriptis,  praesentes  denique  dictis 
Ad  verae  cultum  fidei  ducendo  sequendum. 
Nam  quondam  pergens,  semen  verbi  quoque  spargens, 
Hospes  iam  vergente  die  fertur  petiisse 
Sanctum  presbiterum  Cretensem,  nomine  Carpum, 
Qui  male  tristia  conturbabatur  amara 
Necnon  plus  licito  succensa  ferbuit  ira, 
Quidam  gentilis  quia  perversis  suadelis 

50       Fecit  christicolam  fidei  sacra  spernere  quendam. 
Hunc  ut  presbiterum  praesul  sensit  fore  maestum, 
Causam  tristitiae  verbis  quaerebat  amicis ; 
Et  tristem  monitis  blande  mulcendo  benignis, 
Suaserat,  ut  nimiam  cordis  deponeret  iram 
Et  pro  dampnandis  exoraret  scelerosis, 
Qui,  cito  conversi  Christoque  reconciliati, 
Eius  perciperent  mitis  munus  pietatis, 
Admonuitque  crebro,  nulli  debere  negari 
Spem  veniae,  proprium  vellet  si  flere  reatum. 

60       Set,  qui  tristitiae  studuit  spreta  pietate, 

Econtra  frendens  cordisque  furore  tabescens 
Apposuit  miseris  duris  maledicere  verbis, 
Protestans  illos  neutra  dignos  fore  vita, 
Qui  vixisse  Deo  praesumpsissent  sine  vero. 


216 


The  Dionysius 

once  into  the  city.  Dionysius,  the  nobleman  ah-eady 
mentioned,  when  he  saw  this  man  enjoying  the  use  of 
his  sight,  believed  indeed  that  the  miracle  had  been 
wrought  by  a  Power  Divine,  and  he  hastened  to  go 
with  his  wife,  the  loved  Damaris,  to  the  place  where  he 
knew  the  blessed  Paul  to  be.  He  took  with  him  also  a 
large  retinue  of  dependents.  These  all  were  washed  in 
sacred  baptism  and  were  forthwith  cleansed  from  the 
stain  of  the  ancient  transgression ;  and  he,  who  had 
been  a  leader  of  people  that  had  worshiped  idols,  was 
subsequently  chosen  bishop  of  a  Christian  flock. 

And  now,  having  been  raised  to  the  dignity  of  a      40 
bishop,  illustrious  in  his  admirable  virtue,  he  zealously 
fulfilled  well  the  office  enjoined  upon  him ;    leading  the 
absent  through  letters  and  those  present  through  his 
words  to  follow  the  worship  of  the  true  Faith. 

While  he  was  at  one  time  travelling  about  and  sow- 
ing the  seed  of  the  Word,  he  is  said  to  have  sought  as 
a  stranger  at  the  decline  of  day  the  hospitality  of  a 
certain  holy  priest,  a  Cretan,  named  Carpus,  who  was 
greatly  distressed  by  bitter  grief  and  burning  with  an 
unjust  wrath,  because  a  certain  heathen  had  by  per- 
verse blandishments  induced  a  certain  Christian  to  re-  50 
nounce  his  sacred  Faith.  The  bishop,  on  noticing  the 
sadness  of  this  priest,  inquired  in  kindly  terms  after 
the  cause  of  his  grief.  Then  with  loving  admonition 
he  gently  consoled  him  in  his  sadness  and  persuaded 
him  to  put  from  his  heart  this  excessive  wrath  and 
pray  for  the  wicked  fallen,  that  they  might  thus  ob- 
tain the  grace  of  conversion  and  be  reconciled  to  Christ 
and  thus  behold  the  gift  of  Christ's  gentle  Goodness. 
And  he  frequently  admonished  the  priest  that  hope  of 
pardon  must  be  denied  no  one  who  willed  to  bewail  his 
sins.  But  Carpus  rejected  mercy  and  persevered  in 
his  affliction,  raging  and  languishing  in  the  fury  of  his  60 
heart;  and  furthermore  he  reviled  with  harsh  words 
wretched  sinners,  denying  that  they  are  worthy  of  any 
life  who  had  presumed  to  live  without  the  true  God. 

-217- 


The  Dionysius 

Hac  tarn  tristifica  tandem  ratione  peracta 
Mente  satis  tristi  componit  membra  quieti. 
Nee  mora,  monstratur  caelis  illi  patefactis 
Visio,  qua  fluctus  animi  compescuit  eius. 
Scilicet  altithronum  miro  splendore  coruscum 

70       Viderat  angelicis  saeptum  residere  ministris 
De  caeloque  rogum  raptim  descendere  magnum, 
Ceu  foret  emissus  scelerum  vindex  aliquorum. 
Hinc  terras  oculis  rursum  lustrando  reflexis, 
Horrendum  baratrum  conspexit  hiare  deorsum 
Anguibus  impletum  variis  poenisque  refertum ; 
Supra  quod  miseri  plantis  lapsantibus  illi 
Haerebant  ergo  flentes  in  litore  summo; 
Egressi  quoque  serpentes  illos  cruciantes 
Cogebant  secum  baratrum  penetrare  profundum. 

80       Quo  viso  Carpus  maiore  furore  repletus 

Deflet,  quod  miseri  non  essent  praecipitati, 
Voceque  confusa  rursum  repetens  maledicta, 
Ut  divina  reos,  orat,  mox  ultio  perdat. 
Dixerat,  et  lesum  solita  pietate  benignum 
De  summo  caeli  solio  promptum  misereri 


Infit,  non  mitem  Carpi  causando  dolorem : 
"Percute,  si  possis,  contra  me,  Carpe,  rebellis, 
Qui  cupis  interitum  sitienter  adesse  reorum ; 
En  ego  sum,  caeli  rector  mortisque  peremptor, 
90       Humana  rursus  pro  gente  pati  pie  promptus. 
Si  non  salvari  possunt  aliter  scelerosi. 
Qui  post  commissum  discunt  deflere  reatum. 
Nee  leve  duco,  meae  dextrae  iam  plasma  perire. 
Quod  pulchrum  feci,  quod  corruptum  reparavi. 
Elige  nunc,  dulcem  vel  sectando  pietatem 
In  caelo  mecum  semper  regnare  per  aevum, 


218 


The  Dionysius 

When  he  had  finally  completed  this  doleful  discourse, 
he  composed  himself  to  rest  with  a  very  sad  heart.  Nor 
was  it  long  until  a  vision  appeared  to  him  with  the 
heavens  opened,  a  vision  which  laid  the  waves  of  his 
heart.  He  saw  the  Most  High  resplendent  in  wondrous 
glory,  enthroned  and  surrounded  by  celestial  ministers, 
and  saw  a  huge  pyre  straightway  descend  from  above 
as  though  it  had  been  sent  as  a  judgment  upon  certain 
sins.  Then  turning  his  eyes  and  beholding  again  the  70 
earth,  he  saw,  yawning  beneath,  a  terrifying  abyss, 
filled  with  serpents  and  abounding  in  tortures  of 
various  kinds.  Above  this  pit  wretched  creatures  with 
slipping  footsteps  were  clinging,  weeping  indeed  on  the 
outermost  edge.  Then  the  serpents  coming  forth  and 
tormenting  them  forced  them  to  make  their  way  to- 
gether with  themselves  into  that  deep  abyss.  When 
Carpus  had  seen  this,  he  was  filled  with  more  intense 
fury  and  lamented  that  the  wretches  were  not  pre-  80 
cipitated  headlong;  and  taking  up  again  in  a  loud 
voice  his  imprecations,  he  begged  that  the  Divine 
Vengeance  might  soon  destroy  the  evil-doers. 


When  he  had  said  this  it  came  to  pass  that  Jesus, 
the  Gentle  One,  with  His  wonted  Goodness,  prompt  to 
commiserate,  from  His  most  high  Throne  < descend- 
ed >  and  confuting  the  ungentle  anger  of  Carpus  said: 
"Strike  against  Me,  if  thou  art  able,  rebellious  Carpus, 
thou  who  desirest  so  avidly  the  destruction  of  these 
sinners  to  take  place :  lo,  I  am  the  Ruler  of  the  Heav- 
ens and  the  Destroyer  of  death,  again  ready  to  suffer 
for  the  human  race  if  the  wicked  are  not  able  to  be  90 
saved  in  any  other  way,  who  after  committing  sin 
learn  to  bewail  their  guilt.  Nor  do  I  think  it  a  light 
thing  for  the  work  of  My  right  Hand  to  perish,  a  race 
which  I  had  made  beautiful  and  had  restored  from  its 
corruption.  Do  thou  now  choose,  either  by  pursuing 
sweet  charity  to  reign  with  Me  throughout  eternity  in 

-219- 


The  Dionysius 

Vel  per  saevitiam  dirae  mentis  male  duram 
Supplicio  baratri  tradi  sine  fine  profundi." 
His  nimiiim  iustus  monitis  vir  mansuefactus 
100     Exemplum  cunctis  imitandae  fit  pietatis. 


Post  haec  summorum  fama  clarus  meritorum 
Praesul  disposiiit  Romam  petiisse  superbam, 
Optans  cum  Petro,  Paulo  pariterque  magistro 
Nomine  pro  Christi  se  mox  impendere  morti. 
Palmam  martyrii  sed  sumpserunt  prius  illi, 
Quam  portas  Romae  veniens  intraverat  ipse, 
Discipulusque  Petri,  Clemens  venerabilis  orbi 
Sedis  apostolicae  culmen  rexit  satis  apte. 
Qui  nam  pontificem  pie  suscepit  venientem 

110     Ilium  condigne  summoque  colebat  amore. 

Denique  post  spatium  decursi  temporis  amplum, 
Quo  servi  Domini  commanserunt  venerandi, 
Cum  iam  caelestis  pietas  mitissima  regis 
Aeternae  radio  lucis  voluisset  opimo 
Errorum  tenebras  veterum  discindere  nigras, 
Quis  tunc  occiduae  partes  fuerant  male  cinctae, 
Papa,  prior  monitus  divino  flamine,  sanctus 
Pontifici  verbis  digno  suadebat  amicis 
Semina  divini  per  gentes  spargere  verbi. 

120     "En,"  ait,  "o  miles  Christi,  frater  Dyonisi, 

Magna  seges  Domini  crescit  per  clymata  mundi, 
Praebens  innumeras  maturae  messis  aristas  ; 
Instantes  messi  sed  constant  oppido  pauci. 
Hinc  tu,  sacrorum  bibulus  qui  fonte  librorum 
Constas  divini  sciolus  quam  maxime  cultus, 
Exemplo  Pauli  securus  perge  magistri, 
Imperio  populos  Christi  subiungere  multos. 
Et  tibi  credo  potestatem  diditionis  eandem, 
Quam  Christum  Petro  scimus  credidisse  magistro 

130     Et  quam  suscepi  successor  iure  magistri, 


-220- 


The  Dionysius 

heaven,  or  because  of  the  stubborn  fierceness  of  thy 
cruel  mind  to  be  delivered  into  endless  tortures  of  the 
deep  abyss." 

Thereafter  this  unduly  rigid  man,  greatly  softened 
by  this  admonition,  became  for  all  an  edifying  example     100 
of  kindliness. 

After  this,  the  bishop  renowned  because  of  his  repu- 
tation for  most  abounding  holiness,  arranged  to  fare 
to  mighty  Rome,  desiring  with  Saint  Peter  and  also 
with  his  teacher,  great  Saint  Paul,  to  offer  himself  at 
once  to  death  for  the  Name  of  Christ.  But  they  had 
already  received  the  crown  of  martyrdom  before  his 
arrival  at  Rome ;  and  Clement,  the  venerable  disciple 
of  Peter,  was  duly  enthroned  for  the  world  in  the 
supreme  power  of  the  Apostolic  See.  This  pope  gra- 
ciously received  the  bishop  on  his  arrival  and  cher- 
ished him  with  due  consideration  and  deep-felt  affec-  110 
tion.  Finally,  after  a  considerable  space  of  time  had 
elapsed  during  which  the  saintly  servants  of  God  had 
remained  together,  inasmuch  as  the  most  meek  Good- 
ness of  the  Celestial  King  had  willed  by  a  goodly  ray 
of  eternal  light  to  pierce  the  black  shadows  of  error 
with  which  at  that  time  the  West  was  unhappily  sur- 
rounded, the  saintly  pope,  already  admonished  by  the 
Divine  Spirit,  persuaded  the  worthy  bishop  with  kind- 
ly words  to  scatter  the  seed  of  the  Divine  Word 
throughout  the  Gentile  nations. 

"Behold,"  said  he,  "0  soldier  of  Christ,  brother  120 
Dionysius,  the  great  harvest  of  the  Lord  growing 
throughout  the  regions  of  the  world,  offering  innumer- 
able sheaves  of  matured  grain,  but  laborers  ready  to 
harvest  are  exceedingly  few.  Therefore  do  thou,  who 
hast  drunk  deep  from  the  fount  of  sacred  books  and 
art  especially  a  scholar  of  divine  worship,  following 
the  example  of  thy  teacher  Paul,  go  forth  confidently 
to  subject  many  nations  to  the  empire  of  Christ.  And 
to  thee  do  I  entrust  the  same  power  of  authority  which 
we  know  that  Christ  entrusted  to  Peter,  our  head,  and     130 

-221- 


The  Dionysius 

Converses  pie  solvendi  sontesque  ligandi. 
Accipe  nunc  Gallos  tibi  me  tradente  docendos 
Doctrinaeque  tui  signetur  Gallia  sorti, 
Quo  vir  apostolicus  digna  celebreris  alumna. 
Nee  vereare  quidem  gentes  intrare  rebelles, 
Quae  restant  vero  f rendentes  more  ferino ; 
Sed  tibi  mercedis  tantum  confide  perennis 
In  patris  astrigera  summi  servarier  aula, 
Quantum  pro  Christo  tuleris  patiendo  doloris." 


140         His  papae  blandis  praesul  monitus  suadelis, 
Occiduae  fines  partis  festinus  adivit, 
Moenibus  atque  Paris  gressum  mox  intulit  urbis, 
In  qua  crebro,  loci  pro  fertilitate  decori, 
Gallorum  proceres  concurrunt  saepius  omnes. 
His  ubi  divini  coepit  sacra  semina  verbi 
Spargere,  signorum  mox  exercere  per  ilium 
Christus  virtutes  dignabatur  pie  plures, 
Quo  tanto  plebis  mollescere  corda  rebellis 
Ad  veniam  possent,  quanto  crebro  signa  viderent. 


150         Ast  ubi  credentis  numerus  populi  magis  auctus 
Inspirante  dies  Christo  crevisset  in  omnes, 
Infremuit  super  hoc  veteris  fraus  saeva  draconis, 
Dedignans  animas  sese  iam  perdere  tantas, 
Quas  prius  errorum  laqueis  capiebat  amaris. 
Hinc  pater  ipse  doli  sceleris  doctorque  maligni 
Provocat  in  iustum  regem  mox  Domitianum, 
Christicolis  edicta  necis  dictare  ferocis. 
Qui,  decreta  per  omne  suum  mittens  mala  regnum, 
Christi  cultores  morti  dampnaverat  omnes. 

160     Cuius  praecepto  Sisinnius  ergo  nefando 

Praeses  consensum  praebens  extimplo  malignum 

-222- 


The  Dionysius 

which  I  as  his  successor  received  by  right  of  headship, 
the  power  namely  of  absolving  the  converted  and  re- 
taining the  sins  of  the  unrepentant.  Receive  now  the 
Gauls,  whom  I  am  giving  thee  to  be  instructed,  and 
let  Gaul  be  marked  out  as  thy  sphere  of  teaching, 
where  as  an  apostolic  man  thou  mayest  become  illus- 
trious by  reason  of  thy  worthy  foster-child.  Neither 
do  thou  be  afraid  to  visit  rebellious  tribes  which  resist 
the  truth  gnashing  their  teeth  in  beastly  fashion.  But 
assure  thyself  that  as  great  an  eternal  reward  is  pre- 
served for  thee  in  the  starry  heavens  of  the  Eternal 
Father  as  will  be  proportioned  to  what  thou  dost  en- 
dure in  suffering." 

The  bishop,  encouraged  by  the  comforting  persua-  140 
sions  of  the  pope,  hastened  quickly  to  the  boundaries 
of  the  West  and  soon  directed  his  footsteps  within  the 
walls  of  the  city  of  Paris,  in  which,  because  of  the 
great  wealth  of  the  goodly  place,  all  the  leaders  of  the 
Gauls  come  together  frequently.  And  here  when  he 
had  begun  to  scatter  the  sacred  seed  of  the  Divine 
Word,  Christ  presently  deigned  to  perform  through 
him  many  miraculous  manifestations,  in  order  that  the 
hearts  of  that  rebellious  people  might  the  more  readily 
be  softened  unto  forgiveness,  in  proportion  as  they 
frequently  beheld  such  wonders. 

But  when  the  number  of  the  faithful  had  been  great-  150 
ly  augmented,  and  had  at  the  inspiration  of  Christ  in- 
creased day  by  day,  the  fierce  deceit  of  the  ancient  ser- 
pent raged  thereupon  in  indignation  that  he  should 
now  lose  so  many  souls  which  he  had  previously  been 
holding  captive  in  the  bitter  snares  of  error.  This 
father  of  deceit  and  teacher  of  vicious  crime  therefore 
presently  incited  the  unjust  Emperor  Domitian  to  pro- 
claim an  edict  of  fierce  death  against  the  adorers  of 
Christ.  And  the  emperor,  sending  hateful  orders 
throughout  his  entire  dominion,  condemned  to  death 
all  worshipers  of  Christ.  And  unto  this  accursed  de- 
cree, Sisinnius,  the  governor,    yielded    forthwith    a     160 

-223- 


The  Dionysius 

Pontificem  praesentari  vinctum  iubet  illi, 
Quern  fore  Gallorum  cognovit  rite  magistrum; 
Ac  primum  flagris  mactatum  denique  duris 
Necnon  suppliciis  affectum  crebro  cruentis 
Carceris  in  tenebras  iussit  concludier  atras, 
Ipsius  condiscipulos  pariter  quoque  binos, 
Quos  numquam  caro  sors  cogit  abesse  magistro. 


Sed  nee  carceris  praesul  praeclarus  in  antris 
170     Destitit  obsequium  Domino  persolvere  dignum, 
Sed  docuit  plebem  studiose  convenientem 
Ac  celebrat  sacrae  solito  sollempnia  missae. 
Ast  ubi  caelestem  debebat  frangere  panem, 
Lux  nova  tristifico  subito  f ulgebat  in  antro ; 
In  qua  sidereae  regnator  splendidus  aulae, 
Scilicet  angelica  pariter  comitante  caterva 
Apparens,  carum  consolabatur  alumnum, 
Sanctaque  dans  illi,  mulcebat  famine  tali: 
"Accipe,  care  mens,  mis  iam  venerabile  corpus, 
180     Cuius  mysterium  tibi  mox  conplebo  secretum; 

Namque  tui  merces  mecum  manet  optima  perpes. 

Hisque  salus  summa  patris  praestatur  in  aula, 

Consentire  tuis  qui  dant  operam  pie  iussis. 

Certa  constanter  servaque  fidem  patienter, 

Quo  crescant  Celebris  tibi  iam  praeconia  laudis; 

Et,  quodcumque  sacris  a  me  precibus  rogitabis, 

Impetrare  mei  poteris  dono  pietatis." 

Tali  laetatus  fortis  solamine  testis 

Nulla  timet  tormenta  pati  pro  nomine  Christi. 


190     Post  haec  abstracti  testes  de  carcere  terni, 
Praecepto  mox  praefecti  cogente  superbi, 
An  vellent  duris,  rogitantur,  cedere  poenis. 
Qui  bene  Concordes,  clara  quoque  voce  fatentes 
Patrem  cum  nato  necnon  cum  flamine  sacro 
Esse  Deum  verum  solumque  perenniter  unum, 

-224- 


The  Dionysius 

wicked  acquiescence  and  ordered  the  bishop  to  be 
brought  bound  into  his  presence;  for  he  knew  that 
the  saint  was  truly  a  teacher  of  the  Galhc  people.  He 
ordered  him  at  first  to  be  punished  with  severe  scourg- 
ings  and  afflicted  with  many  cruel  sufferings  and  then 
to  be  shut  up  in  the  black  darkness  of  a  prison,  to- 
gether with  two  of  his  disciples,  whom  fortune  ever 
caused  to  be  in  constant  association  with  their  loved 
master. 

But  not  even  in  the  dark  prison  did  the  illustrious 
bishop  cease  to  perform  the  worthy  service  of  the  170 
Lord,  but  he  zealously  instructed  the  assembled  people 
and  duly  celebrated  the  Holy  Mysteries  of  the  Mass. 
But  when  he  was  about  to  break  the  Sacred  Bread, 
suddenly  a  strange  light  gleamed  in  the  dismal  cavern ; 
in  this  light  the  glorious  Ruler  of  the  starry  court,  ac- 
companied verily  by  an  angelic  host,  appearing  to  him. 
Consoling  His  beloved  son  and  giving  to  the  bishop  the 
Sacred  Species,  he  comforted  him,  saying:  "Receive, 
my  beloved,  now  My  Sacred  Body,  of  which  I  shall 
presently  complete  for  thee  the  Sacred  Mystery ;  for 
thy  greatest  reward  remains  with  Me  forever.  So  too  180 
will  salvation  be  bestowed  upon  these  in  the  court  of 
My  Father  on  High,  who  make  effort  to  give  obedience 
to  thy  commands.  Contend  perseveringly  and  patient- 
ly keep  the  Faith,  in  order  that  the  heralding  of  thy 
widespread  glory  may  presently  increase  for  thee.  And 
whatsoever  thou  shalt  ask  of  Me  in  holy  prayer,  thou 
shalt  be  able  to  obtain  through  the  grace  of  My  Good- 
ness." Rejoicing  at  such  consolation,  the  brave  cham- 
pion was  not  now  afraid  to  suffer  any  tortures  for  the 
Name  of  Christ. 

After  this  the  three  witnesses  were  taken  from  their  190 
prison  by  command  of  the  aforesaid  haughty  governor, 
and  they  were  asked  whether  they  were  willing  to 
yield  in  the  face  of  intense  sufferings.  But  they,  con- 
fessing with  hearts  well  united,  in  a  loud  voice,  that 
the  Father  with  the  Son  and  with  the  Holy  Spirit  is 

-225- 


The  Dionysius 

Testantur  mox  malle  mori  pro  nomine  Christi 
Membratim  quoque  suppliciis  scindi  redivivis, 
Quam  sua  colla  diis  umquam  submittere  falsis. 
Hac  magis  offensiis  praeses  ratione  profanus 
200     Ceu  leo  non  modica  rugiens  praeceperat  ira 
Adl^tis  Christi  cervices  mox  resecari 
Et  gladiis  cunctos  perimi  baptismate  lotos. 
Caedibus  innumeris,  ut  iussit,  namque  peractis, 
Praesul  cum  sociis  iunctus  trahitur  venerandus 
Ad  loca  martyrii  damno  capitum  peragendi. 
Qui  nam,  gaudentes  Domino  laudesque  canentes, 
Pergebant  prompti  semet  mox  dedere  morti. 


Praesul  tunc,  oculis  sursum  manibusque  levatis, 
Altithrono  tales  fundebat  congrue  grates: 

210     "Mi  Dee,  mi  factor,  mi  clementisse  rector. 
Qui  me  vitali  praestans  aura  pie  vesci 
Scilicet  ingenii  donasti  luce  profundi, 
Quo  tis  secretum  scrutarer  mysteriorum, 
Te  solum  laudo,  te  cordetenus  benedico 
Et  tibi  devotas  cunctis  grates  ago  membris 
Pro  cunctis  donis  mihi  collatae  pietatis; 
Teque  precor,  maiestatis  rex  magne  perennis, 
Ut  dare  perpetuam  mihimet  dignere  coronam 
Atque  meis  sociis  pro  te  iam  nunc  morituris; 

220     Tuque  tuum  populum  sei^va  pietate  paterna, 
Quem  pascens  fidei  tibimet  sermone  nutrivi." 

His  ita  poscentis  precibus  iam  rite  peractis, 
Una  discipuli  sancto  cum  praesule  bini 
Poplitibus  positis  cervicibus  atque  reflexis 
Ictus  lictoris  susceperunt  ferientis. 
Quorum  permansit  Celebris  confessio  talis, 
Ut,  dum  praecisis  siluerunt  corpora  collis, 
Palpantes  linguae  laudes  Domino  cecinere. 
Truncatum  quoque  pontificis  corpus  morientis 

-226- 


The  Dionysius 

eternally  the  One  and  Only  True  God,  testified  that 
they  would  prefer  to  die  for  the  Name  of  Christ  and  to 
be  rent  asunder  limb  by  limb,  with  ever  renewed  tor- 
tures, rather  than  at  any  time  to  submit  their  necks 
to  false  gods.  The  godless  prefect,  greatly  incensed 
on  this  account,  raging  in  unbridled  fury  like  a  lion, 
commanded  that  the  necks  of  these  athletes  of  Christ  200 
be  at  once  severed,  and  that  all  those  washed  in  Bap- 
tism be  destroyed  with  the  sword.  Innumerable  of 
the  faithful  were  cut  down  as  he  had  commanded,  and 
then  the  venerable  bishop  together  with  his  com- 
panions was  dragged  to  the  place  where  martyrdom 
was  to  be  achieved  by  decapitation.  But  these  mar- 
tyrs, rejoicing  and  singing  praises  to  the  Lord,  hast- 
ened to  give  themselves  at  once  to  immediate  death. 

Then  the  bishop,  raising  his  eyes  and  hands  heaven- 
ward, fittingly  poured  forth  to  the  Most  High  such 
words  of  gratitude :  "My  God,  my  Creator,  my  most  210 
Benign  Ruler,  Who,  graciously  granting  me  to  enjoy 
the  breath  of  life,  hast  given  also  to  me  the  light  of  a 
profound  intellect,  in  order  that  I  might  penetrate  thy 
hidden  mysteries.  Thee  alone  do  I  praise.  Thee  I  bless 
from  my  heart,  and  to  Thee  I  give  devout  thanks  with 
all  my  faculties  for  all  Thy  kindly  gifts  bestowed  upon 
me;  and  I  beseech  thee,  great  King  of  eternal  majesty, 
that  Thou  deign  to  give  to  me  the  eternal  crown,  as 
also  to  my  associates,  now  about  to  die  for  Thee.  And 
do  Thou  preserve  Thy  people  by  Thy  fatherly  Kind-  220 
ness,  whom  I  have  fed,  nourishing  them  for  Thee  with 
the  words  of  Faith." 

When  these  prayers  of  the  suppliant  bishop  had 
been  duly  spoken,  the  two  disciples,  together  with  the 
saintly  bishop,  fell  upon  their  knees  and  bent  their 
necks  and  received  the  blow  of  the  excutioner.  To  such 
an  extent  did  the  wondrous  confession  of  their  faith 
endure  that,  while  their  headless  bodies  were  lying 
silent,  their  tongues  were  moving  in  song  to  the  praises 
of  God.    Then  the  headless  trunk  of  the  dead  pontiff 

-227- 


The  Dionysius 

230     Erigitur  subito,  nitidum  splendore  sereno, 

Atque  caput  brachiis  portans  proprium  bene  firmis, 
Descendit  recto  gressu  de  moiite  profundo, 
In  quo  martyrium  consummavit  pretiosum ; 
Transiliensque  viae  citius  duo  milia  durae 
Venit  adusque  locum  servando  corpore  dignum. 
Quern  descendentem  cursuque  cito  gradientem 
Coetus  angelici  comitantur  luce  sereni, 
Alleluia  Deo  resonantes  voce  sonora. 

His  signis  factis,  convenit  turba  fidelis 
240     Martyris  atque  loco  venerabile  corpus  in  ipso, 
Quern  sibi  signavit,  cum  post  gressus  requievit, 
Impositum  tumulo  veneratur  honore  supremo, 
Exequias  tanti  luctu  celebrando  patroni. 
Illic  pro  meritis  eius  testis  venerandis 
Christus  virtutes  fecit  clarescere  signis ; 
Nam  visus  caecis,  <usus>  linguae  quoque  mutis, 
Auditus  surdis,  solidus  gressusque  podagris 
Teste  precante  sacro  donatur  crebrius  illo, 
Et  variis  aegri  morbis  qui  debilitati 
250     Adveniunt,  laeti  membris  redeunt  renovatis. 
Hie  quoque  non  raro  maestis  solamina  grata, 
Et  munus  veniae  scelerosis  fertur  ab  arce 
His,  qui  sacra  precum  profundunt  vota  suarum 
Martyris  ad  tumulus,  proprium  deflendo  reatum. 
Cuius  continuo  nos  intercessio  sancta 
Commendet  Christo,  scelerum  veniamque  precando 
Optineat,  nostris  ipsum  pie  parcere  culpis 
Et  partem  nobis  vitae  praestare  perennis ; 
Quo  mereamur  eum  laeti  laudare  per  aevum, 
260     Qui  post  dura  suis  semper  certamina  Sanctis 

Martyribus  duplicis  bravium  praestabit  honoris, 
Ut,  dum  congaudent  animae  super  aethera  sanctae, 


-228- 


The  Dionysius 

raised  itself,  resplendent  in  calm  beauty,  and  lifting  its  230 
own  head  in  its  strong  arms  it  descended  directly 
from  the  steep  hill  upon  which  the  precious  martyr- 
dom had  been  accomplished;  and  passing  over  the 
tedious  distance  of  two  miles  it  came  unto  a  spot  fit 
for  the  preservation  of  that  body.  A  radiant  host  of 
angelic  spirits  accompanied  it  as  it  descended  in  haste 
singing  "Alleluias"  with  exultant  voice. 


After  these  marvels  had  come  to  pass,  the  crowd  of 
the  faithful  came  together,  and  in  that  very  spot  which 
he  had  for  himself  designated  when  he  stopped  after 
his  march,  they  placed  the  venerable  body  of  the  mar-  240 
tyr,  paying  at  his  tomb  final  honor  and  celebrating  in 
tears  the  funeral  rites  of  their  great  patron. 

There  in  proportion  to  the  august  merits  of  that 
champion,  Christ  made  illustrious  his  virtues  through 
miracles ;  for  sight  to  the  blind,  the  use  of  the  tongue 
to  the  mute,  hearing  to  the  deaf,  and  firm  movement 
to  the  halt  were  frequently  bestowed  through  the  inter- 
cession of  that  blessed  witness ;  and  the  sick  also  who 
were  disabled  by  disease  came  thither  and  happily  re-  250 
turned  with  their  bodies  restored.  Here  also  not  in- 
frequently grateful  consolation  came  to  the  sad,  and 
the  gift  of  pardon  for  sin  was  granted  from  on  High 
to  those  who  poured  out  the  holy  vows  of  their  peti- 
tions upon  the  tomb  of  the  martyr,  while  they  bewailed 
their  transgressions. 

May  his  holy  intercession  constantly  commend  us  to 
Christ  and  thus  obtain  through  supplication  pardon  of 
our  sins,  that  Christ  may  graciously  forgive  our  faults 
and  bestow  upon  us  a  share  in  life  eternal,  in  order  260 
that  we  may  merit  happily  to  praise  Him  throughout 
eternity,  Who  after  their  severe  trials  will  ever  upon 
His  holy  martyrs  bestow  a  crown  of  double  glory,  so 
that,  while  their  blessed  souls  are  rejoicing  in  the 

-229- 


The  Dionysius 

Non  minus  in  tumulo  laetentur  mortua  membra, 

Signorum  titulis  crebro  glorificata  coruscis. 

Ipsi  summa  salus,  perpes  victoria,  virtus, 

Laus,  honor,  imperium,  semper  decus  omne  per  aevum ! 


230 


The  Dionysius 

regions  above,  no  less  may  their  mortal  remains  in  the 
grave  be  gladdened,  so  often  made  glorious  by  the 
radiant  testimony  of  miracles.  May  to  Him  be  given 
salvation  on  high,  victory  perpetual,  might,  praise, 
honor,  dominion,  and  glory  forever  throughout  all 
ages! 


NOTES  ON  THE  DIONYSIUS 

The  legend  of  Dionysius  as  sung  by  Hrosvitha  is  recounted  in  the 
Acta  Sanctorum  of  Jan.  18,  vol.  2:215. 

The  saint  was  in  the  early  days  held  identical  with  Dionysius  the 
Areopagite,  and  Hrosvitha  too  has  confused  the  two  saints.  The 
hand  of  the  Areopagite  had  ben  given  as  a  relic  to  Henry  the  Fowler, 
and  had  been  deposited  by  this  king  at  Quendlinberg,  a  town  near 
Gandersheim.     It  was  this  incident  which  made  his  name  familiar. 

The  account  of  Dionysius  the  Martyr  was  first  written  by  the  Monk 
Hilduin  in  814.  Hrosvitha  used  this  Vita  as  her  source  but  she 
altered  and  abbreviated  it.  The  literary  career  of  Dionysius  did  not 
lend  itself  well  to  poetic  treatment  by  Hrosvitha.  She  therefore 
disregards  this  extensive  description  in  her  source  but  chooses  in- 
stead a  letter  from  Dionysius  to  Demophilus  which  served  well  to 
characterize  her  hero.  Nor  does  she  describe  all  the  torments  which 
Dionysius  endured  and  which  are  given  in  such  detailed  style  in  the 
Vita. 

In  Dionysius  the  Martyr  a  splendid  passage  is  seen  in  the  lines 
which  depict  how  he  carried  his  head  to  the  place  appointed  for 
burial.  Both  treatises  extol  the  miraculous  march  of  the  headless 
trunk,  but  Hrosvitha  has  pictured  it  more  vividly  in  her  poetic  ver- 
sion.    See  also  Eckenstein,  p. 166. 

1.         factor  Hummae,  mediae  rationis  et  imae:  Maker  of  the  three- 
fold universe:     heaven,  earth,  and  the  deep.     Compare  Prud., 
Apoth.  226,  "regem  summae  et  mediae  rationis  et  imae."   Ratio 
is   literally   a   system    (as   we   would   speak   of  the   "planetary 
system"). 
1-5.      For  the  theme,  compare  Lc.  2.3.44-45;     Mt.  15.33. 
5.         For  parallel  thought,  compare  Pelag.  355.     This  and  the  fol- 
lowing verse  refer  to  Dionysius  the  Areopagite. 
7.         Memphiflitis:     adjective,    perhaps   with    laciis    to   be    supplied; 

orifi  would  then  be  "shores." 
12.       Note  the  alliteration. 

descripsisse :  the  aorist  infinitive. 

-231- 


The  Dionysius 

14.  mysterium:  the  second  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa.  Compare 
Theoph.  422. 

de clar asset :     the    pluperfect   may   mean    "which    later   on    the 
mysterious  darkness  would  prove  to  have  pointed  at." 

15.  signis  almis:  note  the  vague  use  of  "almus,"  as  in  verse  6  and 
elsewhere. 

16.  actenus:  for  hactenus;  compare  Hor.,  Serm.  1.4.63.  Claud. 
Victor,  2,1;  Prim.  522. 

17.  debrius:  ebrius;  compare  Winterfeld,  "Index  Verborum"  480. 
For  parallel  thought,  compare  Diony.  124. 

18.  Athe7ias:  first  syllable  is  long;  metri  causa;  perhaps  'th' 
makes  position;  see  note  on  adl^tis,  verse  201.  For  the  theme, 
compare  Verg.,  Georg.  4.390. 

19.  simulachra:  note  the  irregular  spelling;  compare  Mar.  831. 

20.  poni:  after  praeceperat;  Ciceronian;  see  Menge,  Repetitorium, 
425,  Anm. 

24-39.     The  theme  is  from  Ac.  17.19-34. 

27,  ergo:  metri  explendi  causa. 

28.  incredulus:  the  second  syllable  is  short;  meti-i  causa.  For 
parallel   thought,  compare  Gong.   73. 

30.       properare:  for  construction,  see  note  on  poni,  verse  20. 

34.  quo:  we  should  expect  quo  in  loco. 

35.  iuris:  abstract  noun  for  concrete;  compare  iuventus.  comitante 
caterva:  compare  verse  176. 

36.  <.cuncti'> :  a  lectio  varians  inserts  <fuerant>,  but  cuncti 
will  retain  the  hom-oeoteleuton. 

37.  delicti  vetemi:  compare  Calim.  9.23.24. 
42.       denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 

44.       For  parallel  thought,  compare  verses  119,  145. 

48.       ferbuit:  for  fervuit. 

50.       Christicolam :  see  also  Bas.  117. 

53.       mulcendo :  note  the  use  of  the  gerund  for  the  present  participle. 

Compare  Pelag.  199;  Prim.  421. 
55.       dampnandis:  compare  note  to  Bas.  75. 
61.       tabescens:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 
64.       vixisse:  aoristic  infinitive. 
66.       nee  mora :  a  favorite  expression  of  Hrosvitha ;    compare  Theo-ph. 

76,  237;  Agn.  241;  Bas.  254;  Prim.  248. 
77.       ergo:  metri  explendi  causa. 
85.       promptum  niisereri:  compare  also  Agn.  327;  Prim.  249.  Strecker 

and  Winterfeld  suggest  a  lacuna  of  two  verses  following  85. 

Not  so  Barack  and  Schurzfleisch  . 
90.       Note  the  alliteration. 
94.       plasma:  see  note  to  Theoph.  445. 
99.       mansuef actus:  the  antepenult  is  short;  metri  causa.     Compare 

Mar.  714;  otherwise  the  word  must  be  read  as  of  four  syllables. 

-232- 


The  Basilitis 

102.     petiisse:  aoristic  infinitive. 

107.  Saint  Clement  was  the  first  successor  of  St.  Peter  about  whom 
anything  definite  is  known. 

115.  Compare  Theoph.  2  for  parallel  expression. 

116.  occiduae  partes:  the  West;  compare  verse  141;  also  Pelag.  12; 
Hilduin  105. 

119.     spargere  scmina  divini  verbi:  compare  verse  141;  also  Mt.  9.37. 

121.  clymata:  clima,  climatis;  a  Greek  Latinized  word;  compare 
Gong.  303. 

122.  praehens  innumeras  maturae  aristas:  compare  lo.  435;  Mt. 
9.37;  Lc.  10.2. 

124.  For  parallel  expression,  compare  verse  17 ;  Agn.  282. 

125.  constas:  a  stronger  word  for  en. 

129.  credidisse:  first  syllable  is  short;  meiri  caiisa. 

134.  quo:  compare  verse  and  note  34. 

138.  servarier:  obsolete  passive  infinitive. 

141.  For  parallel  expression,  compare  verse  116;  also  Gest.  620,  691. 

143.  Compare  the  Vita  of  Hilduin,  106. 

146.  spar  git  sacra  semina  verbi:  compare  verse  119. 

151.  ubi  crevisset:  ubi  with  the  subjunctive  equals  (ntrn. 

156.  The  Emperor  Domitian,  who  reigned  in  Rome,  81-96  A.  D. 

157.  Christicolis :  worshipers  of  Christ.  Compare  Bas.  117.  Hros- 
vitha  frequently  combines  nouns  with  the  suffix  -cola. 

159.     dampnaverat:  compare  note  to  Bas.  75. 
Christi  cultores;  that  is,  Christicolae. 

163.  fore:  for  esse.     Compare  Intro,  xxvi. 

164.  mact^tum:  punished.  The  original  meaning  of  macto,  mactare 
is  to  glorify,  to  honor.  By  metonomy  it  came  to  mean,  to  honor 
by  means  of  a  sacrifice.  Then  gradually  it  meant  simply  to 
sacrifice.  F'inally,  to  torture  and  put  to  death.  For  this  sense 
compare  Cic,  Tusc.  2.22;  Verg.,  Aen.  10.413. 

denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 

166.  concludier:  an  obsolete  passive  infinitive. 

167.  Compare  the  Vita  of  Hilduin,  110. 
172.     For  parallel  thought,  compare  Bas.  165. 

solemptda :  compare  note  to  Mar.  41. 

175.  Compare  the  Vita  of  Hilduin,  115. 

176.  comitante  caterva:  compare  verse  35. 

179.     mis:  for  meum;  compare  note  to  Asc.  48. 
181.     Note  the  alliteration. 
185.     praeconia  laudis:  compare  Agn.  342. 
190.     testes  temi:  that  is,  Dionysius  and  his  two  companions. 
194.     flamine  sacro:  it  is  noteworthy  that  our  author  uses  consistent- 
ly the  classical  fiamen  in  place  of  the  later  spiritus. 

-233- 


The  Basilius 

197.  redivivis:  with  renewed  sufferings;  in  another  place  the  sense 
of  redivivus  is  "reliving."  For  this  meaning  compare  Asc.  141 ; 
Drtu;.  1.634. 

200.  leo  rugiens  ira:  compare  Bas.  81. 

201.  adletis:  for  athletis;  a  Greek  word.  Compare  Hor.,  Ep.  2.1.90. 
Note  that  'dl'  makes  position. 

rcsecari:  for  construction,  see  poni,  verse  20,  and  note. 

202.  haptismatis  lotis:  compare  Pelag.  27. 
207.     se.met:  compare  note  to  Bas.  105. 

210.  mi  Dee:  note  the  vocative  for  Deus;  not  used  with  the  classical 
writers. 

211.  pie:  with  short  ultima;  meiri  causa. 

213.  lis:  for  tuorum;  compare  note  to  Asc.  48. 

214.  cordetenus:  compare  Intro,  xxvi. 

215.  memhris:  used  perhaps  like  partibus;  compare  Cic,  De  Natura 
Deorum  1.9. 

220.     pietate  paterna:  for  parallel  expression,  compare  Agn.  335. 
224.     poplitibus  positis  cervidbus  atque  reflexis:  compare  Hor.,  Carm. 
3.2.16;  Verg.,  Aen.  12.492. 

229.  morientis:  that  is,  mortui;  so  often  used  in  late  Latin  and 
metri  causa.     See  Stolz-Schmalz,  p.  605. 

230.  Note  the  alliteration. 

231-238.     One  of  the  vivid  passages  in  the  works  of  Hrosvitha. 

231.  brachiis:  the  first  syllable  is  short,  following  the  spelling. 

232.  profunda:  used  with  monte,  as  Verg.,  Eel.  4.51,  uses  it  with 
caelum. 

237.  Compare  "angelicis  comitantibus  coetibus,"  Prud.,  Apoth.  532. 

238.  Alleluia:  the  regular  quantities  are  alleluia. 

239.  Compare  Bas.  251,  for  parallel  expression. 
243.  Compare  also  Pelag.  356. 

246.     A  lectio  variant  reads  linguae  <iser7no'^. 

248.     sacro  illo :  may  mean  "to  that  sacred  shrine"  or  "in  that  sacred 

place." 
257.     pie:  see  verse  211,  and  note. 
261.     bravium:  compare  the  note  to  Gong.  486;  note  that  the  penult  is 

short;     metri  causa. 
264.     crebro :  scanned  as  crebrd  against  the  classical  crebro. 


-234 


INCIPIT  PASSIO  SANCTAE  AGNETIS 
VIRGINIS  ET  MARTYRIS. 

Virgo,  quae,  vanas  mundi  pompas  ruituri 

Et  luxus  fragilis  cupiens  contempnere  carnis, 

Promeruit  regis  vocitari  sponsa  perennis, 

Si  velit  angelicae  pro  virginitatis  honore 

Ipsius  astrigera  sponsi  caelestis  in  aula 

Addita  caelicolis  nitida  fulgere  corona 

Atque  sequens  agniim  carmen  cantare  sonorum, 

Conservet  pure  sincero  cordis  amore 

Signum  laudabilis,  quod  portat,  virginitatis; 

10       Quae  < que  >  caput  Christo  signat  velamine  sacro, 
Haereat  affectu  tenero  constanter  in  illo 
Ac  cunctis  aliis  ipsum  praeponat  amicis, 
Qui,  rutilans  nimium,  forma  speciosus  amoena. 
Natos  cunctarum  merito  vincit  mulierum. 
Cuius  amore  quidem  ferventes  congrue  pridem 
Perplures  sacrae  constanti  corde  puellae 
Elegere  mori  saevis  poenisque  necari. 
Quern  decus  insignis  corrumpere  virginitatis. 
Inter  quas  Agnes,  mundo  celeberrima  virgo, 

20       lure  sui  sponsi  condigna  laude  decori 

Christi  dissimilem  cunctis  recitando  decorem, 
Virginibus  sacris  eius  commendat  amoris 
Pignus,  qui,  genitus  sacra  de  Virgine,  solus 
Sponsus  castarum  necnon  decus  est  animarum. 


Haec  Agnes  ergo,  meritis  clarissima  virgo, 
Carmine  non  culto  pangit  quam  nostra  camena, 
Urbis  famosae  praenobilis  incola  Romae, 
Prodiit  almorum  clara  de  stirpe  parentum, 
Inclita  nobilitas  quos  vexit  et  alma  potestas; 
30       Ortus  atque  sui  respondens  nobilitati 
Pulchra  fuit  facie  fideique  decora  nitore 


236 


HERE  BEGINS  THE  PASSION  OF  SAINT  AGNES, 
VIRGIN  AND  MARTYR. 

A  virgin,  who,  desiring  to  despise  the  empty  vanities 
of  a  perishable  world  and  the  luxuiy  of  the  frail  flesh, 
has  merited  to  be  called  the  spouse  of  the  Eternal 
King,  if  because  of  the  charm  of  angelic  purity  she 
wills  to  shine  in  the  starry  court  of  the  Celestial  Bride- 
groom, in  resplendent  crown,  joined  to  the  heavenly 
denizens  and  following  the  Lamb  chanting  a  resound- 
ing hymn — let  her  preserve  with  an  utterly  sincere 
love  of  heart  the  token  of  praiseworthy  virginity.  And 
if  she  marks  her  brow  for  Christ  with  the  sacred  veil,  10 
let  her  cling  firmly  and  with  tender  affection  to  Him 
and  place  Him  above  all  other  friends,  Who  resplen- 
dent in  His  wondrous  beauty  shineth  forth  in  exceed- 
ing loveliness  and  worthily  excelleth  the  sons  of  all 
women. 

And  verily,  in  times  past,  many  sacred  maidens, 
glowing  with  worthy  affection  for  Him,  have  with  con- 
stant heart  chosen  to  die  and  to  be  slaughtered  amid 
bitter  torments  rather  than  violate  the  signal  beauty 
of  holy  virginity.  Among  these  virgins,  Agnes,  a 
maid  illustrious  throughout  all  the  world,  by  duly  pro- 
claiming in  meet  praise  the  beauty  of  Christ,  her  come- 
ly Spouse,  a  beauty  unlike  all  others,  recommends  to  20 
consecrated  virgins  the  pledge  of  His  love,  Who  born 
of  a  holy  Virgin  is  alone  the  Spouse  and  Adornment  of 
chaste  souls. 

This  Agnes,  therefore,  virgin  renowned  for  her 
good  deeds,  whom  our  Muse  sings  in  strains  uncul- 
tured, a  noble  inhabitant  of  the  famous  city  of  Rome, 
came  forth  from  an  illustrious  family  of  kindly  par- 
ents, whom  distinguished  nobility  and  benign  power 
ever  raised  to  distinction.  Befitting  the  nobility  of  her 
birth,  she  was  comely  of  form  and  charming  in  the  30 
splendor  of  her  faith  and  celebrated  throughout  the 

-  237  - 


The  Agnes 

Praecipuis  nimium  meritis  mundoque  Celebris. 
Quae  nam,  tincta  sacri  pura  baptismatis  unda 
Et  de  delicti  maculis  mundata  veterni, 
Se  totam  Christo  devovit  mente  benigna, 
Nitens,  servata  bene  virginitate  beata 
Spernere  carnales  affectus  fortiter  omnes 
Caelibis  et  vitae  durum  luctamen  inire, 
Quo  victrix  hostis  corruptelam  suadentis 
40       lungi  caelicolis  meruisset  in  aethere  Sanctis. 

Ast  ubi  lustra  duo  celeri  cursu  revoluta 
Insuper  et  temos  aetatis  transigit  annos, 
Simphronii  comitis,  praefecti  scilicet  urbis, 
Filius  insignis  iuvenilis  stemmata  floris, 
Illius  formae  decus  ut  vidit  speciosae, 
Affectu  nimio  cordis  suspensus  in  ilia 
Hanc  sibi  prae  cunctis  unam  delegit  amandam, 
Se  fortunatum  credens  et  honoribus  aptum, 
Si  tam  praepulchra  meruisset  habere  puellae 

50       Dulcia  per  propriae  tempus  consortia  vitae. 
Hinc  illam  multis  adiit  comitatus  amicis, 
Desponsare  volens  sponsam  Christi  venerandam, 
Pluraque  de  patris  comportans  munera  gazis 
Stultus  speravit,  quod  perpetrare  nequivit, 
Virginis  ut  stabilem  donis  corrumpere  mentem 
Illius  et  turpi  coniugere  posset  amori. 
Sed  Christi  virgo,  spernens  ceu  stercora  dona 
Pondus  et  oblati  dedignans  protinus  auri 
Splendorem  quoque  gemmarum  rutilum  variarum, 

60       His  verbis  iuvenem  causari  f ertur  amentem : 
"O  fill  mortis  merito  dampnande  perennis, 
0  fomes  sceleris,  contemptor  et  omnipotentis, 
Discedens  a  me  citius  fugiendo  recede, 
Nee  credas  te  posse  meum  pervertere  purum 
Cor,  quod  amatoris  praevenit  nobilioris 
Dulcis  amor,  pulchrum  cuius  fidei  fero  signum 
In  facie  summa  necnon  in  corpore  toto. 


238- 


The  Agnes 

world  because  of  her  outstanding  virtues.  For  this 
maiden,  after  being  washed  in  the  pure  stream  of  Holy 
Baptism  and  cleansed  from  the  stain  of  ancient  guilt, 
dedicated  herself  with  devoted  heart  to  Christ  en- 
deavoring by  the  faithful  preservation  of  holy  vir- 
ginity to  spurn  resolutely  all  carnal  affections  and  to 
enter  upon  the  severe  struggles  of  a  celibate  life,  so 
that,  victorious  over  the  blandishments  of  the  persua- 
sive enemy,  she  might  merit  to  be  joined  to  the  blessed 
inhabitants  of  heaven  above  the  stars.  40 

But  when  two  lustra  had  passed  in  swift  course  and 
she  had  completed  three  years  more,  the  son  of  Sim- 
phronius,  one  of  the  ministers,  in  fact  prefect  of  the 
city,  a  youth  sprung  from  a  noble  race,  once  he  beheld 
the  charm  of  her  beauty,  stunned  with  an  ardent  affec- 
tion of  heart  for  this  maiden,  selected  her  for  his  own 
beloved  in  preference  to  all  others,  believing  himself 
fortunate  and  well  destined  for  distinction,  if  he  suc- 
ceeded in  obtaining  that  beautiful  girl  as  his  sweet 
spouse  for  all  the  days  of  his  life.  Therefore  accom- 
panied by  many  friends  he  approached  her,  desiring  50 
to  espouse  the  virtuous  bride  of  Christ,  and  he  brought 
with  him  many  presents  from  the  treasury  of  his  fa- 
ther, hoping  (the  fool !)  to  achieve  what  he  was  in  fact 
unable  to  effect,  namely  to  corrupt  the  constant  mind 
of  the  maiden  by  these  gifts  and  thus  be  able  to  join 
her  to  his  unholy  affection. 

But  the  virgin  of  Christ,  rejecting  outright  the  gifts 
as  though  they  were  of  utter  worthlessness,  and  de- 
spising the  weight  of  the  gold  which  he  had  brought 
and  the  bright  luster  of  the  diverse  gems,  is  said  to 
have  rejected  the  infatuated  youth  with  these  words :  60 
"0  son  of  death  eternal,  deserving  of  damnation,  0 
fuel  of  crime  and  despiser  of  the  Almighty,  departing 
from  me  speedily  leave  me  and  flee ;  neither  do  thou 
trust  that  thou  wilt  be  able  to  pervert  my  chaste  heart, 
which  the  sweet  love  of  a  far  nobler  Spouse  has  anti- 
cipated, the  beautiful  token  of  Whose  faith  I  bear  upon 

-239- 


The  Agnes 

Quo  me  signavit  strictimque  sibi  religavit, 

Ne  mea  mens  alium  iam  praesumpsisset  amicum 

70       Quaerere,  sed  solum  complecti  disceret  ilium, 
Qui  virtute  potens  omnique  decore  refulgens 
Caelestes  et  mortales  supereminet  omnes. 
Hunc  sine  matre  pater  cani  retro  tempora  mundi 
In  deitate  parem  nee  maiestate  minorem 
Omnipotens  genuit,  per  quem  sibi  saecula  fecit; 
Et  sine  patre  quidem  mater  pariebat  eundem, 
Factorem  proprium  lactans  sub  tempore  natum. 
Cuius  praepulchram  mirantur  denique  formam 
Solaris  splendor  lunae  renitens  quoque  candor, 

80       Laudantes  radiis  Dominum  f ulgentibus  orbis ; 
Cuius  et  imperio  famulantia  sydera  cuncta 
Illis  iniunctum  complent  per  tempora  cursum; 
Cui,  conclamantes  condignis  laudibus,  omnes 
Coetus  angelici  non  desistunt  famulari; 
Mira  cui  bonitas  est  et  praecelsa  potestas, 
Gloria  sublimis,  perpes  concordia  pacis, 
Laudabilis  pietas  nimiumque  benigna  voluntas. 
Talis  namque  meus,  quem  diligo,  constat  amicus, 
Quem  fateor  solum  prae  cunctis  esse  colendum. 

90       Ille  quidem  talis  me  desponsavit  amoris 

Pignore  ceu  sponsam  clara  dotando  corona, 
Atque  meum  gemmis  collum  cinxit  pretiosis, 
Auribus  et  resplendentes  suspendit  inaures, 
Praebens  ornatus  varii  claros  mihi  cultus. 
Ipsius  certe  dulcedo  fluxit  ab  ore, 
Quae  me  lactavit  dulci  pastuque  cibavit 
Ceu  nectar  mellis  suavis  vel  copia  lactis. 
Insuper  et  thalamum  mihimet  construxit  in  aevum 
Lucentem  gemmis  variis  aurique  metallis, 

100     Organa  melodiis  in  quo  resonando  canoris 

Carmen  dulce  mihi  cantant  per  tempora  saecli 
Et  pariter,  sponsi  laudes  modulantia  cari, 
Illius  affectum  semper  suadent  mihi  castum. 


240 


The  Agnes 

my  brow  and  in  my  whole  body ;  that  token  with  which 
He  has  signed  me  and  has  bound  me  closely  to  Himself, 
lest  my  mind  should  presume  to  seek  any  other  lover, 
but  rather  that  it  should  learn  to  embrace  Him,  alone, 
Wlio  is  potent  in  every  virtue  and  resplendent  in  70 
beauty  and  is  far  above  all  in  Heaven  and  on  earth. 
Him  equal  in  divine  nature  and  not  inferior  in  majesty 
the  Almighty  begot  without  a  mother  before  the 
earliest  ages  of  the  world,  this  Son,  through  Whom  He 
hath  made  the  world  for  Himself.  And  this  same  Son, 
a  Mother  brought  forth  without  a  father  and  nourished 
her  own  Maker,  born  in  time.  His  outstanding  come- 
liness the  splendor  of  the  sun  and  the  gleaming  glory 
of  the  moon  do  marvel  at,  glorifying  with  their  bril- 
liant rays  the  Lord  of  the  earth,  and  at  His  command 
all  the  subservient  stars  fulfill  through  the  years  the  80 
courses  assigned  unto  them.  To  Him  all  the  angelic 
choirs,  making  acclamations  in  fitting  praises,  do  not 
cease  to  render  homage.  To  Him  belong  wondrous  good- 
ness and  exalted  power,  glory  sublime,  perpetual  con- 
cord of  peace,  glorious  kindliness  and  will  exceedingly 
benign.  For  such  is  the  Lover  Whom  I  cherish,  and 
He,  I  confess,  is  alone  to  be  worshiped  above  all  others. 
"He  indeed  hath  espoused  me  with  a  token  of  such 
love  as  though  He  hath  enriched  His  spouse  with  a  90 
brilliant  diadem,  and  He  hath  encircled  my  neck  with 
precious  gems,  and  hath  suspended  from  my  ears  cost- 
ly earrings,  and  hath  presented  to  me  splendid  adorn- 
ments of  various  beauty.  From  His  Lips  hath  flowed 
forth  a  sweetness  that  hath  nourished  me  with  milk 
and  fed  me  with  a  sweet  food  like  to  the  nectar  of 
sweet  honey  and  an  abundance  of  milk.  Moreover  He 
hath  constructed  for  me  an  eternal  bridal-chamber, 
resplendent  with  varied  jewels  and  metal  of  gold ;  in 
this  abode  instruments  resounding  in  harmonious  100 
melodies  sing  for  me  a  sweet  hymn  throughout  all  the 
ages,  and  likewise  sounding  forth  the  praises  of  my 
Celestial  Spouse,  they  persuade  me  ever  to  His  affec- 

-241- 


The  Agnes 

Affectu  quem  secreto  <cum>  cordis  amabo, 
Nulla  puellaris  patior  detrimenta  pudoris; 
Ast  ubi  forte  sui  merear  complexibus  uti 
Eius  in  thalamum,  sponsarum  more,  coruscum 
Duci,  permaneo  virgo  sine  sorde  pudica. 
Cui  debebo  fidem  soli  servare  perennem: 
110     Ipsi  me  toto  cordis  conamine  credo." 

His  miser  auditis,  spiculis  perfossus  amoris, 
Ingemuit,  crebro  ducens  suspiria  longa, 
Hoc  quia  non  meruit,  caeco  quod  corde  petivit; 
Et  super  hoc  maerens  nimioque  dolore  tabescens 
Decidit  in  lectum  stultissimus  ille  virorum, 
Et,  simulans  male  languorem,  celavit  amorem, 
Qui  sibi  causa  gravis  fuerat  non  parva  doloris. 
Nee  mora,  fit  notum  fama  prodente  sinistra, 
Natum  praefecti  nimio  languore  ligari: 

120     Conveniunt  subito  medici  velut  agmine  facto, 
Apponunt  variis  aptas  morbis  medicinas; 
Harum  sed  iuveni  nil  proficiebat  amenti. 
Tandem  senserunt,  quod  mox  patri  retulerunt, 
Non  hoc  languoris  signum,  sed  fortis  amoris, 
Quod  contristatus  pateretur  filius  eius. 
Quo  pater  audito  causa  morbique  reperta, 
Ut  leo  frendescens  rapidam  conversus  in  iram 
Incepit  percontari  rabie  furienti, 
Quis  foret  ille  potestatis  sic  imperialis, 

130     In  quo  spe  vana  virgo  confisa  superba 

Crederet  esse  sibi  iunctum,  contempnere  natum 
Eius,  qui  plebi  merito  celeberrimus  omni 
Esset  condigne  summo  provectus  honore. 
Haec  ubi  disseruit  nimioque  furore  latravit, 
Comperit  hanc  ipsam  sacro  baptismate  lotam 
Agnem  christicolam  primis  fore  semper  ab  annis 
Et  conservandae  pro  virginitatis  amore 


242 


of  Hrosvitha 

tion.  When  I  love  Him  in  the  inmost  affection  of  my 
heart,  no  loss  do  I  suffer  of  maidenhood ;  but  when  I 
merit  the  joy  of  His  embrace  and  like  a  bride  am  led 
to  His  glorious  bridal-chamber,  I  remain  a  virgin  with- 
out violation  of  chastity.  For  Him  alone  I  must  needs 
preserve  perpetual  troth;  to  Him  I  entrust  myself 
with  all  the  endeavor  of  my  heart."  110 

When  the  wretched  man  heard  these  words,  he  was 
pierced  by  the  arrows  of  passion,  and  he  groaned, 
bringing  forth  frequent  and  deep  sighs  because  he  had 
not  obtained  what  he  had  sought  for  with  a  blinded 
heart.  And  grieving  over  this  he  languished  in  bitter 
sorrow,  and  most  foolish  of  men  that  he  was,  he  now 
betook  himself  prostrate  to  his  couch.  There  wicked- 
ly feigning  illness  he  concealed  the  passion  which  was 
for  him  the  great  cause  of  his  grievous  affliction.  Nor 
was  it  long  before  it  became  known  through  the 
spreading  of  evil  report  that  the  son  of  the  prefect 
was  afflicted  with  a  grievous  disease ;  and  immediate-  120 
ly  the  physicians  came  together  as  it  were  in  solid  bat- 
tle-line, and  they  applied  remedies  appropriate  for 
various  diseases.  But  none  of  them  was  of  any  avail 
to  the  distracted  youth.  At  length  however  they  dis- 
covered what  presently  they  also  made  knowTi  to  the 
father,  that  there  was  no  sign  of  an  illness  but  of  a 
strong  passion  which  his  disconsolate  son  suffered. 

When  the  father  had  heard  this  and  had  learned  the 
cause  of  the  disease,  raging  like  a  lion,  he  was  moved 
to  violent  anger,  and  he  began  to  demand  in  his  furious 
wrath  who  that  was  of  power  so  imperious,  to  whom 
the  haughty  maid,  resting  upon  delusive  hope,  be-  130 
lieved  herself  to  be  united,  that  she  thus  despised  his 
son  who  was  justly  famed  among  all  people  and  had 
worthily  been  advanced  to  the  highest  dignity.  When 
he  had  said  this  and  had  barked  out  his  exceeding 
fury,  he  discovered  that  this  Agnes  had  been  washed 
in  sacred  Baptism  and  that  she  was  a  worshiper  of 

-243- 


The  Agnes 

Esse  suum  sponsum  consueto  dicere  Christum. 
Quo  nam  comperto,  laetatur  corde  maligno, 

140     Sperans,  <se>  teneram  merito  debere  puellam 
Saevis  ad  cultum  poenis  urgere  deorum 
Et  sic  posse  suum  tandem  complere  furorem, 
Quo  pro  contemptu  nati  furiebat  egroti. 
Hinc  illam  citius  sisti  conspectibus  eius 
lussit;    et  astantem  nulloque  metu  trepidantem 
Primo  suadelis  nimium  mulcebat  amicis, 
Tunc  etiam  probris  dure  cogebat  amaris, 
Ut  se  sponte  sui  nati  copularet  amori 
Et  simulachra  deum  coleret  Christumque  negaret. 

150     Sed  virgo  Christi  nee  suppliciis  superari 
Nee  blandimentis  potuit  devincier  ullis, 
Quin  servaret  amatori  sine  fraude  priori, 
Quod  pepigit,  pactum,  signo  fidei  stabilitum. 
Cui  praeses,  pravam  rursum  renovans  suadelam. 
Dixit :    "Si  vere  cupias  intacta  manere 
Virgo,  deae  magnae  citius  subiungere  Vestae 
Eius  sacricolis  et  consociare  puellis, 
Quo  condigna  fias  illi  semper  famulari." 


Haec  inquit  praeses ;    contra  sed  sic  ait  Agnes : 
160     "Si  mihi  iure  tuum  placuit  contempnere  natum, 
Qui,  ratione  vigens  cunctis  quoque  sensibus  utens 
Corporeis,  anima  regitur  numquam  moritura, 
(Quamvis  sit  merito  baratro  claudendus  in  imo 
Multis  errorum  pro  commissis  variorum, 
Ni,  sanum  sapiens  et  quandoquidem  resipiscens, 
Se  tingui  faciat  pura  baptismatis  unda), 
Quis  te  posse  minis  vel  quis  tandem  suadelis 
Ad  simulachrorum  reris  me  cogere  cultum, 
Artificum  cura  quae  conformata  metallo 
170     Membrorum  falsam  portant  solummodo  formam, 
Mobilis  officium  complent  nee  corporis  ullum, 


244 


The  Agnes 

Christ  from  her  earliest  youth ;  and  that  through  her 
love  of  preserving  virginity  she  was  wont  to  say  that 
Christ  was  her  Spouse. 

Upon  learning  this,  he  rejoiced  with  an  evil 
heart,  expecting  that  he  must  compel  the  tender  maid  140 
by  severe  tortures  to  the  w^orship  of  idols  and  thus  be 
able  at  length  to  satiate  that  intense  wrath  with  which 
he  was  consumed  because  of  her  rejection  of  his  ailing 
son.  He  therefore  ordered  her  to  be  brought  imme- 
diately into  his  presence,  and  as  she  stood  there  in  no 
wise  terrified,  he  at  first  sought  to  coax  her  with  kind- 
ly persuasions;  but  afterwards  he  employed  harsh 
compulsion  by  means  of  bitter  reproaches,  to  the  end 
that  of  her  own  accord  she  might  unite  herself  to  the 
love  of  his  son,  and  that  she  might  worship  the  images 
of  the  gods  and  deny  Christ.  But  the  virgin  of  Christ  150 
could  not  be  overcome  by  suffering  nor  persuaded  by 
any  wheedling  so  as  not  to  presei^e  unsullied  the  firm 
troth,  strengthened  with  the  seal  of  faith,  which  she 
had  pledged  her  first  Lover.  Then  the  prefect,  renew- 
ing once  again  his  base  persuasions,  said :  "If  indeed 
thou  dost  desire  to  remain  a  virgin  inviolate,  attach 
thyself  at  once  to  the  great  goddess  Vesta,  and  join 
her  consecrated  daughters,  that  thou  mayest  ever  be 
worthy  to  serve  her." 

Thus  spake  the  prefect,  but  to  him  Agnes  made  re- 
sponse :  "If  it  rightfully  pleased  me  to  reject  thy  son  160 
who,  endowed  with  reason  and  having  the  use  of  all 
his  bodily  senses,  is  ruled  by  a  soul  destined  never  to 
die  (although  he  would  deserve  to  be  shut  up  in  the 
lowest  pit  because  of  the  commission  of  so  many  and 
grievous  faults,  unless  he  should  come  back  to  his 
senses  and  be  duly  wise  again  and  thus  have  himself 
touched  by  the  pure  waters  of  Holy  Baptism),  how 
then  dost  thou  think  by  any  threats  or  by  any  persua- 
sions to  force  me  to  worship  idols,  which  are  foi-med 
from  metal  by  the  labor  of  artisans  and  bear  only  a 
false  form  of  limbs,  and  fulfill  no  functions  of  a  nim-     170 

-  245  - 


The  Agnes 

Neque  suum  quid  viventis  monstrant  animalis? 
Et  quod  ab  his  insensatis  monstrisque  profanis 
Solamen  vitae  mihimet  sperare  gerendae 
Possum,  quae,  vita  sensuque  carentia  cuncto. 
Nee  sibi  proficiunt  mihi  nee  sueeurrere  possunt?" 


Haee  ubi  dicta  dedit,  praeses  Simphronius  inquid 
"Florentem  primis  te  nam  eognosco  sub  annis, 
Ingenio  parvam,  necnon  aetate  tenellam ; 

180     Hinc  infantili  parcendo  simplieitati 
Prudenter  te  subporto,  lasciva  puella. 
Quo  pareendo  tuum  eitius  te  fleetere  eollum 
Sub  saeris  Vestae  plantis  faeiam  venerandae 
Tureque  nostrorum  numen  plaeare  deorum. 
Sed  si,  tarn  mitem  spernando  mei  pietatem, 
Contraluetaris,  mea  ne  praecepta  sequaris. 
Ultra  non  parco,  sed  vim  iustam  faciendo 
Mando,  sub  obscenae  latebris  te  claudier  aedis. 
In  qua  eriminibus  turpes  gaudent  mulieres; 

190  Et  faeiam  pollutarum  sociam  meretrieum, 
Quo  tu,  quae  elara  polles  de  stirpe  ereata, 
Dedecus  omne  tuis  sis  et  confusio  turpis." 


At  sacra  virgo,  minis  nimium  trepidans  super  istis, 
Audacter  mox  praefecto  dedit  ista  responsa: 
"Si  tu  namque  Deum  scires  hunc,  quem  eolo,  verum 
lUiusque  potestatem  sine  fine  vigentem, 
Qua  semper  proprios  pie  confortando  ministros 
Antiqui  fraudes  hostis  confrigeret  omnes, 
Talia  verba  tuo  nolles  profundere  rostro 
200     Nee  mihi  terrores  toties  praeponere  tristes. 

Hinc  ego,  quae  sectando  fidem  Christi  mehorem 
Ilium  eognosco  necnon  cognoscor  ab  illo, 
Ipsius  dextra  me  defendente  superna 
Spero  delicti  numquam  maculis  violari, 
Carnis  spureitias  fragilis  sed  vincere  eunetas." 


246 


The  Agnes 

ble  body,  and  do  not  show  anything  in  common  with 
living  beings?  Furthermore,  what  consolation  can  I 
expect  in  the  conduct  of  my  life  from  these  senseless 
and  profane  monsters,  which,  themselves  deprived  of 
all  sensation,  are  able  neither  to  benefit  themselves  nor 
to  assist  me?" 

When  she  had  finished  speaking,  Simphronius,  the 
prefect,  made  answer :  "I  know  that  thou  art  still  in 
the  bloom  of  thy  first  years,  a  child  in  wit  and  tender 
in  age.  Therefore  pardoning  thy  childish  simplicity  I 
will  wisely  convey  thee,  thoughtless  child,  to  a  place 
where,  in  order  to  spare  thee,  I  will  make  thee  bend 
thy  head  before  the  sacred  feet  of  venerated  Vesta,  180 
and  where  with  incense  thou  wilt  placate  the  majesty 
of  our  gods.  But  if,  despising  such  mild  goodness  of 
mine,  thou  dost  struggle  and  dost  not  will  to  follow 
my  commands,  I  no  longer  will  spare  thee  but  will  use 
just  violence  and  order  that  thou  be  enclosed  within 
the  recesses  of  a  house  of  ill-repute,  in  which  lewd 
women  indulge  in  sinfulness,  and  I  will  make  thee  a 
companion  of  corrupt  harlots,  in  order  that  thou,  who 
didst  spring  from  a  noble  race,  mayest  be  an  utter  dis-  190 
grace  and  a  shameful  confusion  to  thine  own  house." 

But  the  holy  virgin,  trembling  exceedingly  at  these 
threats,  yet  immediately  gave  this  brave  response  to 
the  prefect :  "If  thou  didst  know  the  true  God  Whom 
I  worship  and  Who  exerciseth  His  power  without  end, 
through  which  in  gracious  manner  for  the  consolation 
of  His  servants  He  confoundeth  all  the  snares  of  the 
ancient  enemy,  thou  wouldst  not  then  be  willing  to 
pour  from  thy  mouth  such  words,  nor  wouldst  thou  so 
often  place  before  me  frightful  terrors.  Therefore  I, 
who  follow  the  better  faith,  that  of  Christ,  know  Him 
and  am  known  by  Him;  and  I  hope  that  under  the  200 
protection  of  the  right  Hand  of  God,  I  will  never  be 
defiled  by  sin  but  will  conquer  all  the  allurements  of 
the  frail  flesh." 

-247- 


The  Agnes 

His  dictis  saeva  praeses  commotior  ira 
Caelestis  sponsam  regis  iussit  venerandam 
Vestibus  exutam,  toto  quoque  corpore  nudam, 
Concurrente  trahi  conventiculo  populari 

210     Inqiie  lupanaris  nigrum  concludier  antrum, 
In  quo  lascivi  iuvenes  rationis  egeni 
Colloquio  scelerosarum  gaudent  mulierum. 
Sed  Christus,  propriae  praebens  solamina  sponsae, 
Illam  conviciis  tangi  non  sustinet  ullis. 
Ast  ubi  distracto  nudatur  tegmine  toto, 
Continue  bene  densati  crevere  capilli, 
Qui,  ductu  longo  lapsi  de  vertice  summo, 
Descendendo  pedum  plantas  tetigere  tenellas, 
Corpus  et  omne  comis  tegitur  ceu  tegmine  vestis. 

220     Utque  lupanaris  calcavit  limina  tristis, 
Extimplo  suavis  sensit  dulcamen  odoris 
Atque  locum  turpem  miro  splendore  micantem 
Aspexit,  tenebris  qui  sordebat  prius  atris. 
Et  cum  sordidulum  compulsa  subintrat  in  antrum, 
Angelus  altithroni  blande  stetit  obvius  illi, 
Custos  indubius  fuerat  qui  corporis  eius, 
Optulit  et  vestem  niveo  splendore  micantem 
Eius  mensurae  conformatam  satis  apte. 
Hac  induta  quidem  direxit  ad  aethera  vocem, 

230     Assidue  grates  Christo  resonando  suaves, 
Cuius  opem  tanti  sensit  sub  fasce  pericli. 
Cuius  et  auxilio  fuerat  protecta  paterno, 
Ne  posset  veteris  corrumpi  fraudibus  hostis. 


Interea  iuvenes  caecato  corde  furentes 
Undique  collectis  cursim  venere  catervis, 
Certantes  studio  perversae  mentis  iniquo, 
Quis  prior  intraret  vel  quis  perdiscere  posset. 
An  virgo  suffulta  sui  munimine  Christi 
Haec,  quae  carnales  semper  contempsit  amores, 
240     lam  nunc  in  coepto  posset  persistere  voto. 

-248- 


The  Agnes 

These  words  inflamed  the  savage  rage  of  the  prefect 
still  more,  and  he  commanded  the  esteemed  spouse  of 
the  Celestial  King  to  be  deprived  of  her  garments  and 
with  body  entirely  exposed  to  be  dragged  in  the  midst 
of  a  great  concourse  of  people  that  had  gathered,  and 
to  be  shut  up  in  the  dark  den  of  a  brothel,  in  which 
wanton  youths,  maddened  with  passion,  delighted  in 
association  with  evil  women.  But  Christ,  bringing  210 
consolation  to  His  own  spouse,  did  not  suffer  her  to  be 
touched  by  any  one  of  these  revilers.  For  when  she 
was  thus  exposed,  deprived  of  her  garments,  imme- 
diately the  luxuriant  hair,  which  hung  in  long  tresses 
from  her  head,  grew  longer,  and  in  its  descent  reached 
the  tender  soles  of  her  feet  so  that  her  entire  body 
was  covered  with  the  tresses  as  with  a  protecting  gar- 
ment. And  as  soon  as  she  had  crossed  the  threshold  of 
that  dismal  den  of  sin,  she  immediately  perceived  a  220 
delicious  odor,  and  she  beheld,  gleaming  with  a  won- 
drous luster,  that  shameful  place  until  then  a  dark 
and  dingy  hole.  And  when  she  was  compelled  to  enter 
that  filthy  haunt,  an  angel  of  the  Most  High  assuringly 
stood  before  her,  who  was  the  resolute  custodian  of 
her  body,  and  he  brought  her  a  gleaming  garment  of 
snowy  splendor,  perfectly  fashioned  for  her.  Thus 
clad,  she  directed  her  voice  to  the  heavens,  fittingly  ut- 
tering sweet  thanks  to  Christ,  Whose  help  she  had  ex- 
perienced under  the  burden  of  such  great  peril,  and  230 
protected  by  Whose  paternal  aid  she  could  not  be 
overcome  by  the  wiles  of  the  ancient  enemy. 

Meanwhile  the  youths,  maddened  in  the  blindness  of 
their  hearts,  collecting  into  a  mob  from  all  parts  came 
speedily,  vying  in  the  sinful  lust  of  their  perverted 
hearts  as  to  who  would  be  the  first  to  enter,  or  who 
would  be  able  to  discover  whether  this  virgin,  sup- 
ported by  the  protection  of  her  Christ,  she  who  had 
ever  disdained  carnal  affection,  would  now  be  able  to 
persevere  in  the  vow  which  she  had  undertaken.  240 

-249- 


The  Agnes 

Nee  mora,  cognoscunt,  nee  eontradicere  possunt, 
Quod  numquam  longum  quis  eonfundetur  in  aevum, 
Qui  eredens  Domino  firma  spe  pendet  in  illo ; 
Nam  quicumque,  sua  compulsus  mente  superba, 
Ingreditur  turpis  latebras  temerarius  aedis, 
Ut  radios  lucis  vidit  mire  rutilantis 
Angelicae  praefulgentem  vestisque  nitorem, 
Correptus  signi  nimio  terrore  stupendi 
Prostratus  sacrae  plantis  extimplo  puellae 

250     Postulat  errorum  laxari  vincla  suorum 

Testaturque  Deum  verum  fore  iure  colendum, 

Eius  cultores  qui  consolabitur  omnes; 

Sicque  locus  scelerum  domus  efiicitur  preeularum. 

Tandem  praefecti  natus  venit  male  sanus, 

Cuius  sustinuit  causa  vim  virgo  beata. 

Qui  mox  ingressus  ridenti  corde  misellus 

Nee  dixit  laudem  Domino  nee  reddit  honorem, 

Gratia  tristifieo  euius  radiebat  in  antro, 

Sed  destestabilem  laetus  tendebat  in  aedem, 

260     Amplexu  dulei  sperans  se  virginis  uti 

lam  lieito  saerae,  euius  languebat  amore. 

Sed  Christi  pietas  necnon  praeeelsa  potestas, 

Fortiter  obsistens  illi  perversa  volenti, 

A  eorruptela  propriam  protexit  alumnam 

In  reprobam  miserum  mortem  tradebat  et  ilium. 

Nam  mox  ut  rapido  cursu  properaverat  illo, 

Quo  supplex  laudes  Domino  resonaverat  Agnes, 

Infelix,  membris  improvisa  resolutis 

Morte,  ruit  pronus,  Christi  virtute  peremptus. 


270         Quo  pater  audito  miser  advenit  laerimando, 
Stipatus  multa  populorum  namque  eaterva, 
Et,  sese  miserum  elamans,  spargebat  in  altum 
Voees,  his  sanctam  verbis  eausando  puellam: 
"O  mulier  male  erudelis,  eui  non  muliebris 
Cordis  inest  feritas  nimiumque  eruenta  voluntas, 

-250- 


The  Agnes 

Nor  was  it  long  before  they  learned,  and  were  not 
able  to  gainsay,  that  never  will  any  one  be  confounded 
for  all  eternity,  who  believing  in  God  reposes  in  Him 
with  a  firm  trust;  for  whosoever,  impelled  by  his 
haughty  mind,  recklessly  entered  the  recesses  of  that 
foul  place,  when  he  beheld  the  rays  of  light  scintillat- 
ing in  a  wonderful  manner  and  saw  the  splendor  of  the 
angelic  garb,  each  was  so  seized  with  extreme  terror 
at  such  an  extraordinary  manifestation,  that  he  forth- 
with prostrated  himself  at  the  feet  of  the  holy  virgin, 
imploring  to  be  freed  from  the  shackles  of  his  errors  250 
and  testifying  that  the  true  God  was  rightly  to  be 
worshiped,  Who  thus  wills  to  console  all  His  clients. 
And  thus  was  this  place  of  sin  transformed  into  a 
house  of  prayer. 

At  length  came  the  son  of  the  perfect,  bereft  of 
reason,  he  because  of  whom  the  blessed  maid  had  en- 
dured such  cruel  treatment.  This  wretched  man, 
entering  presently  with  a  gladsome  heart,  neither 
spoke  praise  to  God  nor  rendered  Him  honor  Whose 
grace  was  illumining  the  doleful  cavern,  but  joyfully 
hastened  into  that  hateful  abode,  hoping  that  he  might 
now  licitly  enjoy  the  embraces  of  the  holy  virgin,  for  260 
whose  affection  he  was  languishing.  But  the  good- 
ness of  Christ  and  His  most  high  power  mightily  re- 
sisting this  man  who  was  willing  sin,  shielded  His  own 
child  from  disgrace  and  delivered  the  unhappy  man 
to  an  evil  death.  For  as  soon  as  he  had  with  quick 
steps  hastened  to  this  place  where  Agnes  supplicating- 
ly  was  singing  praises  to  God,  the  unhappy  wretch,  his 
limbs  unexpectedly  relaxed  in  death,  fell  prone,  laid 
low  by  the  power  of  Christ. 

When  the  unhappy  father  had  heard  this,  he  came  270 
amid  lamentations,  followed  by  a  great  concourse  of 
people,  and  calling  himself  the  most  wretched,  he  sent 
cries  on  high,  accusing  the  saintly  maiden  in  these 
words :  "0  woman,  maliciously  cruel,  in  whom  there 
is  an  unwomanly  wildness  of  heart  and  a  will  exceed- 

-251- 


The  Agnes 

Corpore  sub  tenero  frendescens  more  ferino, 
Die,  quae  causa  meum  cogit  te  perdere  natum, 
Qui  decus  omne  suis  et  spes  fuerat  genitoris 
Quondam  felicis  talis  de  germine  prolis, 
280     Sed  nunc  orbati  misere  pro  funere  nati? 

Hinc  patet  ergo,  tuam  mentem  nimium  vitiosam 
De  rivulis  magicae  fraudis  bibulam  satis  esse, 
Florentem  primis  quia  forte  necare  sub  annis 
Subtractum  dulci  iuvenem  vita  voluisti." 

At  sacra  conviciis  virgo  non  frangitur  istis 
Praefecto  nee  responsum  reddebat  acerbum, 
Duleia  sed  resono  profundens  verba  palato 
Dixit  f acunde,  bene  eomposita  ratione : 
"Non  ego  causa  necis  iuveni  fueram  pereunti, 

290     Sed  magis  ipse  sibi  fuit  incensor  moriendi, 

Glorificare  Deum  stultus  quia  spreverat  ilium, 

Gloria  tristifico  cuius  praefulget  in  antro. 

Sed  nunc,  ut  plane  toto  clareseet  in  orbe 

Eius  maiestas  necnon  praecelsa  potestas, 

Ipsius  suavem  supplex  oro  pietatem, 

Ut  corpus  rigidum  iubeat  recalescere  rursum 

Atque  novum  membris  hominem  reparet  redivivis." 

Dixit  et  astantes  egredi  praeceperat  omnes ; 

Et,  prostrata  solo  fundensque  preces  lacrimando, 

300     Praestari  petit  a  Domino  veniam  sceleroso. 

Cui  mox  oranti  misero  vitamque  precanti 
Angelus  astiterat  procumbentemque  levabat, 
Praebens  colloquiis  illi  solamen  amieis, 
In  verboque  Dei  iussit  virtute  potenti 
Extinetum  subito  flato  vixisse  resumpto. 
Qui  eitius  dicto  iussus  surrexit  ab  humo, 
Viribus  et  eunctis  plene  membris  restitutis; 
Ac,  laudum  dulces  spargens  super  aethera  voces. 
Grates  eontinuo  solvebat  mente  iocunda 


252 


The  Agnes 

ingly  savage  raging  in  thy  tender  body  in  the  fashion 
of  a  wild  beast,  tell  me,  what  purpose  urges  thee  to 
destroy  my  son,  who  has  been  the  honor  of  his  people 
and  the  hope  of  his  father,  once  happy  in  such  an  off- 
spring, but  now  bitterly  bereft  by  the  death  of  this  280 
son?  It  is  therefore  evident  that  thy  mind  is  exceed- 
ingly vicious  and  is  thoroughly  imbued  with  deceits 
from  the  stream  of  wicked  magic,  because  thou  hast 
been  minded  to  snatch  from  joyful  life  a  youth  still 
blooming  in  the  first  years  of  his  young  manhood." 

But  the  holy  virgin  was  not  daunted  by  such  accu- 
sations, nor  did  she  make  a  bitter  retort  to  the  prefect, 
but  pouring  forth  from  her  lips  words  resounding  with 
sweetness  she  spoke  eloquently,  in  a  reply  full  of  good 
sense:  "I  was  not  the  cause  of  the  death  which  de- 
stroyed this  youth;  but  rather  he  himself  was  the 
author  of  his  own  death,  because  stupidly  he  spurned  290 
to  glorify  the  true  God,  Whose  glory  radiates  in  this 
sullen  dungeon.  But  now,  in  order  that  throughout 
the  entire  world  His  majesty  and  exalted  power  may 
be  made  manifest,  I  suppliantly  implore  His  sweet 
Goodness  to  command  this  rigid  body  to  grow  warm 
again  and  to  restore  a  new  man  with  limbs  revivified." 
When  she  had  said  this,  she  commanded  all  those  who 
stood  about  to  depart,  and  prostrate  upon  the  earth 
amid  tears  she  poured  forth  prayers,  begging  that 
pardon  be  granted  from  the  Lord  to  the  sinful  youth.     300 

Presently  an  angel  stood  near  her  as  she  implored 
and  begged  life  for  the  wretched  man,  and  the  angel 
raised  up  the  prostrate  form,  offering  her  consolation 
in  loving  words,  and  in  the  Name  of  God  commanded 
that  the  dead  man,  destroyed  by  the  power  of  the 
Most  High,  should  resume  his  breathing  forthwith  and 
live.  He  who  had  thus  been  commanded  rose  quickly 
from  the  ground,  with  strength  restored  to  all  his 
members;  and  sending  up  sweet  praise  to  the  most 
high  heavens,  he  at  once  paid  his  debt  of  thanks  with 
a  joyful  heart  to  Christ,  the  Conqueror  of  death  and 

-253- 


The  Agnes 

310     Christo,  victori  mortis  vitaeque  datori. 

Inde  quidem,  prima  prorsus  forma  renovata, 
Processit  vivus,  qui  morte  fuit  religatus; 
Atque,  suo  tristi  se  praesentando  parenti, 
Fit  res  gaudendi,  fuerat  cui  causa  dolendi. 
Hinc  crebro  caelum  pulsans  clamore  profundum 
Utitur  et  verbis,  suadens  studiosius,  istis : 
"Credite,  Romani  cives,  rogo,  credite  cuncti, 
Esse  Deum  Christum  verumque  peremiiter  unum 
Cum  patre  celsithrono  necnon  cum  flamine  sacro 

320     Semper  regnantem  sceptrum  caelique  tenentem; 
Sub  ditione  sua  qui  complectens  universa 
Cuncta  gubernaclis  regit  immensae  bonitatis. 
Hie  est  orandus  solusque  colendus  amandus; 
Qui  prius,  errantem  necnon  perversa  volentem 
Morte  repentina  citius  me  praeveniendo, 
Finem  stultitiae  dignabatur  dare  tantae, 
Et  post,  erranti  promptus  solito  misereri, 
Virginis  Agnetis  precibus  sacrae  studiosis 
Mollitus,  rursum  vitae  reddit  renovatum." 

330     At  pater,  ut  natum  prodire  sui  redivivum 
Perfectum  specie  vidit  plenumque  decore, 
Interitum  lacrimis  cuius  deflevit  amaris, 
Mox  super  insolita  signi  novitate  stupendi 
Admirando  pavet,  laeto  sed  pectore  gaudet. 
Tunc  amplectendo  collum  pietate  paterna, 
Mitia  praedulci  libaverat  oscula  proli; 
Atque  Deum  verum  damans  dixit  fore  Christum, 
Cuius  tam  celerem  cognoscebat  pietatem, 
Cuius  et  imperio  mors  succumbebat  amara, 

340     Reddens  viventem,  quem  sorbebat  morientem. 
Scilicet  astantes  animis  mirantibus  omnes 
Tollunt  in  caelum  laeti  praeconia  laudum, 
Laudantes  sanctum  Domini  nomen  benedicti. 


Hoc  vix  pontifices  crudeli  corde  ferentes 
Commovere  quidem  non  parvam  seditionem, 
Agnem  sacrilegam  dicentes  et  scelerosam 

-254- 


The  Agnes 

the  Giver  of  life.    Then  indeed,  again  restored  to  his     310 
first  comeliness,  he  who  had  been  bound  in  death,  ad- 
vanced   alive    and,    presenting  himself  to  his  grief- 
stricken  father,  he  became  to  him  a  cause  of  rejoicing, 
to  whom  he  had  been  a  cause  of  grief. 

Thereupon  repeatedly  assailing  the  most  high  heav- 
ens with  his  cries,  zealously  persuasive,  he  made  use  of 
these  words :  "Believe,  O  ye  Roman  citizens,  I  beg 
you,  believe  all  of  you  that  Christ  is  the  true  and  only 
God,  eternally  enthroned  on  high,  with  the  Father 
and  with  the  Holy  Spirit  ever  reigning  and  holding  320 
the  power  of  heaven ;  embracing  in  His  dominion  the 
universe.  He  rules  all  things  by  the  governance  of  His 
unbounded  Goodness.  He  alone  is  to  be  implored,  wor- 
shiped, and  loved.  Who  when  at  first  I  was  erring  and 
willing  evil  forestalled  me  by  a  sudden  death  and 
deigned  to  put  an  end  to  such  madness,  and  then,  ever 
ready  as  is  His  wont  to  help  the  erring,  appeased  by 
the  prayers  of  the  holy  virgin  Agnes,  hath  restored 
me  afresh  to  life." 

And  his  father,  when  he  saw  his  son  restored  and  330 
approaching  him,  perfect  in  form  and  full  of  come- 
liness, after  he  had  bewailed  his  death  amid  bitter 
tears,  forthwith  trembled  with  wonder  at  the  un- 
wonted marvel  of  the  stupendous  miracle,  but  he  re- 
joiced also  with  a  glad  heart.  Then  embracing  his  son 
with  paternal  devotion,  he  lavished  loving  kisses  upon 
his  dear  child.  After  this  he  declared  in  a  loud  voice 
that  Christ  was  the  true  God,  Whose  ready  Goodness 
he  had  felt,  and  by  Whose  command  was  laid  low 
death,  which  had  just  yielded  up  alive  the  youth  whom 
it  had  lately  engulfed.  And  then  indeed,  all  those  340 
standing  about  with  wondering  minds  happily  sped 
messages  of  praise  to  heaven,  extolling  the  sacred 
Name  of  the  Blessed  God. 

But  the  pagan  pontiffs,  unable  in  their  cruel  hearts 
to  endure  this,  caused  indeed  a  great  sedition,  accusing 
Agnes  of  wicked  sacrilege,  and  saying  that  she  must 

-255- 


The  Agnes 

Occidi  poenis  citius  debere  cruentis, 
lllius  causa  quia  contemptum  simulachra 
Cunctaque  sacrorum  paterentur  iura  suorum. 
350     Hinc  praeses  maestus  turbato  pectore  factus 
Condoluit  sacrae  subtristi  mente  puellae; 
Ignorat  tamen  omnino  dubius,  super  ilia 
Quid  sibi  sectandum,  vel  quid  restaret  agendum 
Perdere  non  placuit,  sed  nee  defendere  quivit. 

Tandem  discessit  maerens  aliumque  reliquid, 
ludicis  officio  functum  feritate  lupina, 
Qui  fuit  Aspasius  dictus  rituque  profanus. 
Qui  citus  Agnetem  proici  praecepit  in  ignem, 
Pontificum  votis  male  concordando  malignis. 

360     Sed  corpus  castum  nulla  de  sorde  piandum, 
Ardor  carnalis  quod  non  succendit  amoris, 
Ignis  non  laesit  praesens  nee  tangere  quivit. 
Denique  divisae  divino  numine  flammae 
Virgineis  tribuere  locum  precibus  spatiosum : 
Ac  prorumpentes  aestu  nimioque  furentes 
Perdunt  carnifices  urendo  primitus  omnes; 
Hinc  circumstantem  labentes  undique  plebem 
Incredulam,  plures  raptim  stravere  falanges. 
Sola  sed  immunis  stabat  pia  virgo  caloris, 

370     Inter  flammarum  crines  ludens  crepitantes, 
Oravitque  Deum  versis  ad  sydera  palmis, 
Hoc  utens  in  f route  precis  modulamine  laudis: 
"Omniparens  verbi  genitor  mundique  creator, 
Qui,  cum  dilecto  regnans  retro  tempora  nato 
Amborumque  coaeterno  cum  flamine  sacro, 
Digne  laudaris,  coleris,  veneraris,  amaris, 
Te  solum  laudo,  te  laudando  benedico, 
Et  tibi  devote  grates  persolvo  perennes, 
Eiusdem  quia  fulta  tui  munimine  nati 

380     Numquam  subcubui  serpentis  fraude  vestuti, 
Corpore  sed  casto,  puro  cordisque  secreto, 
Carnis  spurcitias  pertransivi  bene  cunctas, 


256 


The  Agnes 

speedily  perish  by  cruel  death  because  on  her  account 
the  images  of  their  gods  and  their  pagan  rites  were 
suffering  contemptuous  neglect.  Wherefore  the  prefect 
was  made  sad,  and  he  grieved  with  a  distressed  mind 
for  the  holy  maiden.  However,  he  was  in  doubt  and  350 
did  not  know  what  course  to  pursue  concerning  her  or 
what  remained  to  be  done :  he  did  not  wish  to  destroy 
her;    yet  he  was  unable  to  defend  her. 

At  length  he  departed  sadly  and  left  in  his  place 
another,  who  exercised  his  judicial  office  with  the 
fierceness  of  a  wolf;  this  man  was  Aspasius,  skilled 
in  profane  rites.  He  commanded  Agnes  to  be  cast  into 
fire,  responsive  to  the  wicked  prayers  of  the  pontiffs. 
But  the  body  of  the  chaste  virgin  which  required  no 
punishment  because  of  any  defilement,  since  the  pas-  360 
sion  of  carnal  love  had  not  enkindled  it,  the  fire  did 
not  molest,  nor  were  the  flames  able  to  touch  it.  Final- 
ly by  power  divine  the  flames  were  separated  and 
yielded  to  the  virgin's  prayers  a  more  ample  fulfill- 
ment than  she  had  asked.  For  the  flames  raging  with 
excessive  heat,  broke  forth  and  destroyed  at  once  the 
executioners  first  of  all.  Then  they  licked  at  the  un- 
believing by-standers  and  speedily  laid  low  many 
ranks  of  them.  But  alone  proof  against  the  flames  the 
saintly  virgin  stood  at  ease  amid  the  crackling  tongues 
of  fire. 

Then  she  prayed,  raising  her  hands  heavenward,  370 
ushering  in  her  prayer  with  this  melodious  praise: 
"Father  of  all,  Father  of  the  Word,  and  Creator  of  the 
world.  Who,  reigning  before  all  ages  with  Thy  beloved 
Son  and  with  the  Holy  Spirit  co-eternally  with  Both, 
art  worthily  praised,  worshiped,  venerated,  loved, 
Thee  alone  do  I  laud.  Thee  I  bless  in  praise,  and  to 
Thee  I  give  devotedly  eternal  thanks,  because  support- 
ed by  the  protection  of  Thy  Son,  I  have  never  suc- 
cumbed by  reason  of  the  deceits  of  the  ancient  ser-  380 
pent,  but  with  chaste  body  and  my  heart's  shrine  un- 

-257- 


The  Agnes 

Poenas  sacrilegi  pariter  superando  tyranni. 
Hinc,  gaudens  in  te  nimium  super  hac  pietate, 
Ad  te  nunc  animis  festino  venire  iocundis, 
Optans  iura  pati  mortis  citiusque  resolvi, 
Quo  merear  vere  contemplari  sine  fine 
Te,  quern  quaesivi,  quern  solum  semper  amavi ; 
Tu  Clemens  animam  pro  te  de  corpore  pulsam 
390     Intra  claustra  tui  dignanter  suscipe  regni, 
Quo  tu,  iure  tuo  pollens  sub  nomine  trino. 
Rex  unus  machinae  rerum  per  saecula  trinae 
Ist§c  cuncta  regis  sceptro  summae  deitatis." 
Scilicet  orantis  precibus  iam  rite  peractis, 
Ignibus  extinctis  moritur  subito  rogus  omnis ; 
Et  cinis  ipse,  suis  confrigescendo  favillis. 
Sic  expers  omnis  factus  fuit  immo  caloris, 
Ut  nee  scintillam  sibi  post  servaverit  ullam. 


Hoc  igitur  signo  iam  clarescente  stupendo 
400     Quanto  se  virtus  Christi  plus  detegit  orbi, 
Tanto  maioris  rabiem  spirando  furoris 
Iniustus  iudex  animo  cruciatur  amaro 
Nee  patitur  sacram  post  haec  superesse  puellam. 
Per  quam  sunt  crebro  miracula  tanta  patrata ; 
Ense  sed  inmisso  tenerum  guttur  penetrando 
Martiris  egregiae  iugulum  perfodit  avare, 
Et  vice  conversa,  quod  non  speravit,  agendo 
Illi  profecit,  cui  gratis  obesse  cupivit, 
Transmittens  caelo,  quam  subtraxit  male  mundo. 


410     Ast  ubi,  pro  Christo  loetali  vulnere  laesa, 
Extremum  Domino  flatum  reddit  moriendo 
Atque  fide  salva  gaudens  obdormit  in  illo, 
Ocius  angelici  coetus  de  sidere  lapsi 
Astantes  animam  niveo  candore  coruscam 
Necnon  caelestis  perfusam  luce  nitoris 

-258- 


The  Agnes 

sullied  I  have  passed  safe  through  all  the  allurements 
of  the  flesh,  likewise  overcoming  the  torments  of  the 
sacrilegious  tyrant.  Therefore,  rejoicing  in  Thee  ex- 
ceedingly because  of  this  goodness,  I  now  hasten  to 
come  to  Thee  with  joyful  mind,  desiring  to  suffer  the 
sentence  of  death  and  speedily  to  be  dissolved,  in  or- 
der that  I  may  merit  indeed  to  behold  without  end 
Thee,  Whom  I  have  sought,  Whom  I  alone  have  ever 
loved.  Do  Thou  in  Thy  clemency  deign  to  receive  this 
soul,  expelled  from  the  body  for  Thy  sake,  within  the 
portals  of  Thy  kingdom,  where  Thou,  powerful  in  Thy 
justice  under  the  triune  Name,  as  the  one  King  of  the  390 
three-fold  universe  throughout  all  ages,  dost  rule  all 
things  with  the  scepter  of  the  august  Godhead."  And 
when  forsooth  these  pleading  prayers  had  been  com- 
pleted, the  flames  were  extinguished  and  the  whole 
pyre  died  out  and  the  very  cinders  grew  cold  in  their 
own  ashes,  so  utterly  deprived  of  all  heat  that  not  even 
a  spark  survived. 

When  this  stupendous  miracle  had  now  become  evi- 
dent, the  more  the  power  of  Christ  revealed  itself  upon 
the  earth,  so  much  more  did  the  unjust  judge  breathe  400 
forth  the  madness  of  a  mightier  rage,  tormented  in 
his  bitter  heart;  nor  did  he  allow  the  sacred  maid  to 
survive  after  this,  through  whom  such  great  prodigies 
had  been  wrought ;  but  he  plunged  his  sword  into  the 
tender  throat  of  the  illustrious  martyr  and  pierced  it 
through  ravenously.  And  on  the  other  hand,  unwit- 
tingly indeed,  he  succeeded  in  conferring  upon  her, 
whom  he  desired,  though  unprovoked,  to  harm,  a  great 
boon,  as  he  sent  to  heaven  the  soul  he  thus  wickedly 
snatched  from  the  world. 

But  when  she,  who  for  Christ  was  stricken  with  a 
mortal  wound,  had  rendered  in  death  her  last  sigh  to  410 
the  Lord,  and  with  the  saving  faith  had  fallen  asleep 
in  Him,  suddenly  an  angelic  host,  coming  down  from 
heaven,  standing  about  that  soul  resplendent  in 
radiant  beauty  and  clothed  in  the  light  of  celestial 

-259- 


The  Agnes 

Blande  suscipiunt  laetique  per  aera  tollunt, 
Congrue  divinae  laudis  resonantibus  hymnis ; 
Indeque  transvectam  celeres  super  aetheris  ignes 
Ducunt  astrigeram  sponsi  caelestis  in  aulam. 
420     A  quo  continuo  clarum  rutilante  corona 
Donatur  purae  pro  virginitatis  honore; 
Nee  minus  ergo,  sui  signo  donando  triumphi, 
Martirii  palmam  sumpsit  sine  fine  gerendam, 
Quo  martir  felix,  duplici  certamine  victrix, 
Corporis  et  mentis  carni  semper  renitentis, 
Utens  aeterni  bravio  decoris  duplicato, 
Inter  virgineas  fulgeret  clara  catervas, 
Lilia  ceu,  pulchre  roseo  permixta  rubore, 
Inter  delicias  florum  rutilat  variorum. 


430         Interea  quoque  summorum  sacra  cura  parentum 
Excultam  magna,  funus  venerabile,  pompa 
In  gremio  terrae  toto  contexit  honore; 
Nee  saltim  bustum  sacratae  virginis  ipsum. 
Quod  pro  servandis  fuerat  venerabile  membris, 
Sollicitudo  parentalis  contempsit  amoris, 
Sed  sub  nocturnis  servat  vigilantius  horis. 
At,  dum  pervigiles  consueto  more  parentes 
Excubias  proli  celebrabant  mente  fideli, 
Caelitus  his  ipsis  monstratur  visio  talis : 

440     Denique  virgineis  subito  descendere  turmas 
Viderunt,  lapsas  celeri  de  cardine  caeli, 
Ornatas  pulchre  pleno  comptasque  decore; 
Inter  quas  Agnem  simili  splendore  nitentem 
Conspexere  suam  pro  Christo  martirizatam ; 
A  dextris  cuius  nive  candidior  stetit  agnus. 
Quos  merito  fidei  scivit  dignos  venerari, 
Blande  colloquiis  illos  affatur  amicis, 
Dicens :    "Gaudete  mecum  gratulando  per  aevum, 
Sum  quia  luciflua  regis  caelestis  in  aula 

450     Virginibus  sacris  sociata  perenniter  istis. 


260 


The  Agnes 

splendor,  received  it  tenderly  and  bore  it  happily 
through  the  skies  amid  hymns  of  resounding  praise, 
as  was  meet.  And  when  she  had  been  borne  above  the 
swift  fires  of  the  heavens,  they  led  her  into  the  starry 
court  of  the  heavenly  bridegroom.  From  Him  she  re-  420 
ceived  without  delay  the  bright  golden  crown  for  the 
honor  of  her  chaste  virginity,  and  then  too,  worthy  as 
she  was  to  be  presented  with  the  symbol  of  her  tri- 
umph, she  received  the  palm  of  martyrdom  to  carry 
without  end,  so  that  the  happy  martyr,  victrix  in  a 
double  battle,  that  of  the  body,  and  that  of  the  mind 
that  ever  striveth  against  the  flesh,  might  enjoy  eter- 
nal glory  for  the  two-fold  victory  and  might  shine  re- 
fulgent among  the  virgin  choir,  just  as  the  lily,  when 
combined  beautifully  with  roseate  crimson,  is  resplen- 
dent amid  the  loveliness  of  the  varied  flowers. 

Meanwhile  the  holy  solicitude  of  her  noble  parents,  430 
amid  great  solemnities,  consigned  her  venerable  re- 
mains with  all  possible  honors  to  the  bosom  of  the 
earth.  Nor  was  that  very  tomb  of  the  holy  virgin, 
which  was  deserving  of  reverence,  disdained  by  the 
solicitude  of  parental  affection,  but  was  guarded 
thereby  even  more  vigilantly  during  the  night.  And 
while  according  to  their  custom  the  ever  watchful  par- 
ents were  with  loyal  hearts  keeping  guard  over  their 
child,  there  appeared  to  them  a  vision  from  heaven: 
they  saw  suddenly  descending,  swiftly  gliding  down 
from  the  gates  of  heaven,  a  virgin  throng  beautifully  440 
adorned  and  decked  in  full  splendor;  among  these 
they  beheld  radiant  in  like  beauty,  their  own 
Agnes  martyred  for  Christ.  At  her  right  stood  a 
lamb  more  white  than  snow.  And  as  she  knew  that 
her  parents  were  worthy  of  veneration  by  reason  of 
their  faith,  she  tenderly  addressed  them  in  kindly 
tones:  "Rejoice  with  me,  giving  thanks  for  all  ages, 
because  I  am  in  the  resplendent  court  of  the  Celestial 
King,  associated  eternally  with  these  sacred  virgins. 
And  now  in  heaven  I  am  joined  in  the  sweet  embrace     450 

-261- 


The  Agnes 

Et  nunc  in  caelis  illi  coniungor  amoris 
Amplexu  dulci,  quern  semper  mente  fideli 
In  terris  colui,  cupiens  sine  fine  tueri." 
His  igitur  dictis  subito  discessit  ab  illis. 
Qui,  nimium  laeti  tanto  solamine  facti, 
Siccabant  lacrimas  super  eius  morte  refusas 
Et  laudes  Domino  psallebant  voce  canora, 
Qui  post  dura  suis  tribuit  certamina  Sanctis 
Testibus  aetemae  clementer  praemia  vitae. 
Amen. 


262 


The  Agnes 

of  love  to  Him  Whom  I  have  ever  worshiped  upon 
earth  with  a  faithful  heart,  desiring  to  behold  Him  for 
all  eternity." 

When  she  had  said  this  she  suddenly  departed  from 
them.  And  they,  made  exceedingly  happy  by  such  a 
consolation,  dried  their  tears  which  they  had  been 
pouring  forth  because  of  her  death,  and  they  chanted 
praise  to  God  with  voices  melodious.  Who  in  His  great 
mercy  giveth  unto  His  sacred  champions  after  the 
severe  combat  the  reward  of  eternal  life.    Amen. 


NOTES  ON  THE  AGNES 

The  source  of  this  legend  is  an  epistle  falsely  assigned  to  Saint 
Ambrose  and  addressed  to  Nuns. 

Although  the  life  of  this  saint  was  a  favorite  theme  during  the 
middle  ages  and  there  was  available  for  Hrosvitha's  use  a  metrical 
Vita  of  Saint  Agnes  by  Prudentius,  and  another  by  Pope  Saint 
Damasus,  Hrosvitha  adhered  faithfully  to  the  pseudo-epistle  of  Saint 
Ambrose.  This  her  source  is  found  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum  Ian.,  To. 
2:352;  that  of  Pope  Damasus  in  luli,  To.  2:228;  the  version  of 
Prudentius  is  found  in  Kuhnmuench,  S.  J.,  199-202. 
1-14.  These  verses  embody  a  general  statement  as  to  what  con- 
secrated virgins  must  do  if  thoy  wish  "nitida  fulgere  corona" 
in  Heaven. 

2.  Compare  note  to  Mar.  41. 

3.  vocitari:  from  vocito,  the  frequentative  of  voco;  compare  Cic, 
De  Rep.  2.49. 

4.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  verses  137,  421;  for  the  theme, 
Mi.  22.30. 

5.  astrigera  in  aula:  compare  Diony.  138. 

6.  caclicolis :  compare  note  to  Diony.  157. 

7.  The  theme  is  from  the  Apoc.  14.4,  "hi  sequuntur  Agnum  quo- 
cumque  ierit." 

10.       signat:  compare  the  use  of  sigtiarc  in  the  Vulgate,  especially 

in  Apoc.  7.3;  Cant.  4.12. 

velamine  sacro:  compare  note  to  Bas.  31. 
13-14.     Compare   Sedul.,   Car^n.  Pasch.  2.51,    "forma    amoena    prae 

filiis   hominum;"     also   Ps.   44.3,   "speciosus    forma   prae   filiis 

hominum." 

-263- 


The  Agnes 

mulierum :  the  penult  is   long;     metri  causa  and   generally   in 
mediaeval  Latin. 
19.       mundo:  note  the  omission  of  in. 

26.  carmine  non  culto:  compare  for  parallel  thought,  Gong.  81. 

27.  famosae:  in  good  sense  as  occasionally  in  classical  Latin. 

29.  vexit :  one  expects  the  expression  of  the  goal  to  which,  as  ad 
summa,  Tac,  Ann.  14.54. 

30.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Prim.  7. 

33.  baptismatis  unda:  compare  note  to  Gong.  35. 

34.  delicti  vetemi:  also  Diony.  37. 

38.  luctamen  inire:  compare  note  to  Bas.  220. 

39.  corruptelam:  grammatically  may  be  the  object  of  victrix;  see 
Stolz-Schmalz,  p.  378;  however,  this  would  leave  suadentis 
without  an  object. 

40.  meruisset:  for  the  imperfect,  unless  it  is  possibly  aoristic  in 
sense. 

41-42.  Compare  Pseudo-Ambrose  351.1.1.,  "tertio  decimo  aetatis  suae 
anno  mortem  perdidit  vitam  invenit."  And  he  adds  here:  "In- 
fantia  computabatur  in  annis  sed  erat  senectus  mentis  inmensa." 
Compare  also  Prud.,  Perist.  14.11. 

lustra   duo:   a   lustrum,  was   five   years;    compare   Hor.,   Serm. 
2.4.24. 

45.  Pseudo-Ambrose  amplifies:  "dum  a  scholis  reverteretur,"  Vita 
1.2. 

51.       comitatus:  a  deponent  used  here  passively. 

53.  gazis:  treasures;  compare  Pelag.  132. 

54.  speravit  corrumpere:  more  correctly  with  the  future  infinitive 
and  accusative  subject. 

56.       illius:  for  the  reflexive  suo. 

60.  causari:  to  blame,  reproach;  the  present  infinitive  apparently 
for  an  imperfect. 

61.  dampnande:  the  vocative  with  fili;  for  spelling  compare  Mar. 
41. 

62.  fames:  fuel;  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  1.176;  compare  also  Pseudo- 
Ambrose  351.1.3,  "discede  a  me,  fomes  peccati,  nutrimentum 
facinoris,  pabulum  mortis." 

72.  mortales  supereminet  omnes:  compare  Verg.,  Aen.  6.856. 

73.  cani  retro  tempora  mtindi:  compare  Theoph.  232,  "retro  prin- 
cipii  primordia  cana  serena." 

77.  lactans:  used  here  transitively,  "nourishing." 

78.  denique:  metri  explendi  causa. 

81.  famulantia  sydera  ciincta:  for  parallel  expression,  compare 
Asc.  118;  note  also  the  spelling  of  sydera. 

87.  laudabilis:  the  antepenult  is  short;     metri  causa. 

88.  constat:  stronger  form  for  est. 

93.       resonando:    the  gerund  for  the  present  participle. 

-  264  - 


The  Agnes 

97.       copia  lactis:  compare  Verg.,  Eclog.  1.82;  Georg.  3.308. 

105-110.     Compare    Pseudo-Ambrose    1.1.4,    "cuius    mater    virgo    est, 

cuius  pater  feminam  nescit;   Quern  cum  amavero,  casta   sum; 

cum  tetigero,  munda  sum;  cum  accepero  virgo  sum." 
106.     complexibus  uti:  compare  Bas.  90. 

110.  toto  conamine:  compare  note  to  Mar.  66. 

111.  spiculis  perfossHs  amoris:  compare  Bas.  37. 

113.  caeco  corde :  compare  Bas.  53. 

114.  tabescens:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa.  For  parallel 
expression,  compare  Theoph.  79,  117. 

117.  Compare  also  Pelag.  195. 

118.  Nee  mora:  compare  note  to  Diony.  66. 
fama  prodente  sinistra:  compare  Prim.  339. 

122.     nmenti:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 
127.     ut  leo  frendescens:  compare  Diony.  200;  Bas.  81. 

134.  latravit:  compare  Gong.  566. 

135.  baptismate  lotam:  compare  Pelag.  27. 

136.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Theoph.  8. 
fore:  for  esse. 

137.  pro  virginitatis  amore :  compare  verse  4. 
151.     devincier:  obsolete  passive  infinitive. 
158.     fias:  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

165.  sanum  sapere:  accusative  with  sapere,  like  nil  saperc. 

166.  tingui  baptismatis  unda:  tinguo  was  the  usual  word  with  Ter- 
tullian  and  the  Fathers  for  "baptize." 

171.  mobilis  officiutn  complent  nee  corporis  ullum:  compare  Alcuin 
1.1193,  "motu  sine  corporis  ullo"  and  Pseudo-Ambrose  1.6. 
"indole  muta  et  surda  et  sine  sensu  et  sine  animis." 

172.  A  lectio  varians  of  Schurzfleisch  reads:  "et  neque  viventis 
quidquam  monstrant  animalis."  The  reading  in  M  is  illegible 
at  the  beginning  of  the  line. 

177.  liaec  ubi  dicta:  compare  Pelag.  346. 
inquid:  note  the  spelling. 

178.  primis  sub  annis:  compare  note  to  verses  41-42. 

181.  subporto:  present  with  future  force;  compare  Fort.,  Carm. 
5.1.47. 

188.  mando:  also  present  with  future  force;  used  here  with  infinitive 
instead  of  dat.  and  ut. 

claudier:  obsolete  passive  infinitive;  metri  causa. 

189.  mnlieres:  compare  verse  13. 

192.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Pelag.  167;  Agn.  278. 

193.  super  istis  minis:  note  the  use  of  super  in  a  causal  sense. 

199.  tno  rostro:  compare  Gong.  266. 

200.  Note  the  alliteration. 

-  265  - 


The  Agnes 

201.  sectando:  gerund  for  the  present  participle.  For  this  line  and 
the  following  compare  Pseudo- Ambrose  1.1.6.  "Nam  unigenitus 
Dei  Filius,  quern  ignoras,  murus  est  mihi  impenetrabilis  et 
custos  mihi  et  numquam  dormiens.  . ." 

209.  conventicido :  not  diminutive  in  sense. 

210.  concludier:  obsolete  passive  infinitive. 

214.  conviciis:  the  second  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa.  Compare 
also  verse  285.  The  sense  of  conviciis  is,  by  metonomy,  "the 
persons  who  revile,"  as  sometimes  in  Ovid. 

221.  dulcamen:  a  charm;  a  post-classical  word.  Compare  Winter- 
feld,  "Index  Metricus"  sub  verbo  "dulcamen." 

226.     indubius:  here  probably  equal  to  firmus;  as  in-dubius. 

229.  direxit  ad  aethera  vocem:  compare  Bus.  260. 

230.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Mar.  188. 

231.  sub  fasces:  the  first  meaning  of  fascis  is  "bundle,  package"; 
compare  Verg.,  Georg.  4.204. 

peHcli:  syncope  for  pericidi;  mctri  causa. 
235.     For  the  theme,  compare  Pseudo-Ambrose  1.2.9.     Note  also  the 
alliteration  in  this  passage  234-235. 

241.  nee  mora:  compare  verse  118. 

242.  quis:  for  quibus. 

242-243.  For  the  theme  compare  Eccl.  2.11;  also  the  closing  verse 
of  the  Te  Deum,  "In  Te  Domine  speravi,  non  confundar  in  aeter- 
num." 

248.  signi  stupendi:  compare  verse  333. 

249.  extimplo:  for  extemplo;  the  last  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 
254.     male  sanu^:  less  likely  "not  in  good  health." 

256.  ridenti  corde:  compare  Bas.  97,  261. 

258.  radiebat :  probably  for  radiabat. 

259.  detestabilem:  the  anetepenult  is  short;  m^tH  cau^a. 
261.  licito:  either  an  adverb  or  an  adjective  with  amplexu. 

264.  corruptda:  a  seducer;  compare  verse  39  for  the  normal  sense; 

also  Ter.,  Adelph.  793,  perhaps  for  the  figurative  sense. 

272.  spargebat  in  altum  voces:  compare  verse  229;  also  Tfieoph.  297. 

276.  fretidescens  more  feHno:  compare  verse  127;  also  Diony.  136. 

280.  pro:  note  the  sense  of  pro   ("by  reason  of"). 

281.  hinc  patet  ergo:  compare  Gong.  163. 
283.  primis  sub  annis:  compare  verses  41,  178. 
294.  praecelsa  potest  as:    compare  verse  262. 

297.  redivivh:  returned  to  life;  compare  Dioiiy.  196;  in  the  version 
of  Pseudo-Ambrose  the  prefect  asks  Agnes  to  demand  that  the 
angel  restore  his  son  to  life. 

299.     lacrimando:  gerund  for  present  participle. 

305.     vixisse:  for  vivere;  aoristic  infinitive. 

308.  spargens  didces  voces  super  aethera:  a  favorite  expression  of 
Hrosvitha.     Compare  verse  272. 

-266- 


The  Agnes 

309.  gratis  solvebat:  perhaps  modeled  after  vota  solvere. 

310.  Christo  datori:  dator  is  rare  in  classical  usage;  compare  how- 
ever, Verg.,  Aen.  1.734. 

313.     praesentando :  the  gerund  for  the  present  participle. 

315-317.     Note  the  alliteration  in  these  verses. 

315.  caelum  profundum:  compare  monte  profunda,  Diony.  232,  and 
note. 

317-320.     For  the  theme,  compare  Asc.  28;  Mt.  28.19;  lo.  5.7. 

319.     cum  flamine  sacro :  compare  note  to  Diony.  194. 

322.  gubemaclis:  syncope  for  gubemacidis;  compare  Verg.,  Aen. 
5.176.  Pseudo- Ambrose  does  not  speak  of  the  father's  conver- 
sion, but  only  of  his  astonishment  at  the  miracle  and  of  his 
regret  at  not  being  able  to  save  Agnes. 

325.  me  praeveniendo :  may  possibly  mean,  "cutting  my  life  short 
prematurely." 

327.  For  parallel  thought,  compare  Diony.  85. 

328.  Agnetis:  one  of  the  few  proper  nouns  that  Hrosvitha  inflects. 
Compare  note  to  Mar.  162. 

S33.     Note  the  alliteration. 

super  signi  novitate  stupendi:  compare  verse  248;  note  also  the 

prep,  governing  the  abl.  of  cause. 
335.     amplectendo:  gerund  for  present  participle. 

pietate  pateima:  compare  Diony.  220. 
340.     The    verse    is    probably   anacoluthon,    with    reddens    modifying 

Christus  supplied  from  Christum. 
342.     praeconia  laudum:  compare  verse  308;  also  Diony.  185. 
355.     reliquid:  note  the  spelling. 

358.  proici:  the  antepenult  is  short;  metH  causa. 

359.  concordando:  the  gerund  for  the  present  participle. 

360.  piandum:  in  the  sense  of  "to  punish."     Compare  Juvenal  13.54. 

368.  incredulam:  the  second  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

plures  raptim  stravere  falanges:  compare  Alcuiyi  1.257,  "haud 
secus  Oswaldus  rex  stravit  ubique  phalanges." 

369.  calo^rin:  with  immunis;  poetic  and  post- Augustan  usage. 

370.  flammnrum  qrines;  for  the  figure  see  Valerius  Flaccus  1.205; 
Saint  Augustine,  Sermo  243.3;  Pliny,  N.  H.  9.86. 

372.  171  fronte  precis:  a  variant  translation  might  be,  "employing  by 
way  of  prayer  this  melodious  praise."  The  translation  given  in 
the  text,  however,  is  justifiable  from  the  classical  use  of  frons 
as  "the  forepart  of  anything,  the  fa?ade,  the  front"  (as  in  Caes., 
B.  G.  3.37.1;  Vitr.  3.2).  It  is  tt)  be  noted  that  the  whole  prayer 
runs  from  verses  373-393;  but  of  these  lines  the  first  pa/rt, 
the  introduction,  the  front,  verses  373-383,  is  really  a  passage  of 
praise.  Dorer  33.4,  translates  this  passage:  "Sie  begann  das 
Gebet  mit  heblich  lautendem  Ausspruch." 

-267- 


The  Agnes 

Prex  in  the  nominative  and  genitive  singular  is  not  classical. 

374.  retro  tempora:     compare  Theoph.  232. 

375.  cum  flamine  sacro:  compare  verse  319. 

379.  munimine :  compare  Verg.,  Georg.  2.352. 

380.  fraudc:  perhaps  abl.  for  dat. 

383.  superando:  the  gerund  for  the  present  participle.  Note  that 
the  last  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa. 

385.  iocundis:  the  first  syllable  is  short;  metri  causa.  Compare 
verse  322. 

386.  Compare  Paul  Ad  Phil.  1.23,  "desiderium  habens  dissolvi  et  esse 
cum  Christo." 

391.  quo:  for  m  qux). 

392.  machinae  rerum  per  saecula  tnnae:  compare  note  to  Gong.  6; 
the  first  syllable  in  machinae  is  short;    metri  causa. 

393.  ist^c:  short  form  of  istaec,  the  demonstrative  pronoun. 

394.  p7-ecibus  iam  rite  peractis:  compare  Mar.  207.  compare  Ter., 
Hec.  593;  Cic.  Att.  8.12.1. 

401.  spirando:  the  gerund  for  the  present  participle;  the  last  syl- 
lable is  short;  metri  causa. 

404.  miracula  tanta:  see  also  Gong.  567;  Dulc.  14.2. 

405.  ense  inmisso:  note  that  in  Hrosvitha's  legends  the  sword  is  the 
only  weapon  to  which  the  martyrs  succumb. 

408.     gratis:  the  last  syllable  is  short;  metri  cau^a. 
413.     angelici  coetus:  compare  Mar.  582;  Asc.  94. 
419.     astringeram  in  aulam:  compare  verse  5. 
421.     pro  virginitatis  honore :  compare  verse  4. 

425.  renitentis:  note  the  quantity  of  the  antepenult;  the  sense  de- 
mands the  verb  renlti,  not  renUere. 

426.  bravio:  compare  Gong.  486. 
433.     nee  saltim:  "not  even,"  as  often. 

435.  sollicitudo  parentalis :  according  to  the  Vita  her  parents  buried 
her  on  the  Nomentan  Way.  To-day  a  church  is  built  over  her 
grave. 

440.  denique:  metH  explendi  causa. 

441.  Note  the  alliteration. 

celeri  de  cardine:  Strecker  suggests,  "stabili  de  cardine." 
444.     martirizatam :  the  antepenult  is  short;  metri  ca?<,sa. 
446.     venerari:  used  passively. 

448.  gratulando :  the  gerund  for  the  present  participle. 

449.  luciflua:  compare  Gong.  18. 

450.  Compare  Mar.  285.     The  theme  is  from  the  Apoc.  6.17. 


-268 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Joseph  Aschbach,  Roswitha  iind  Conrad  Celtes.     (Vienna,  1867). 
Robert    F.    Arnold,   Das   Deutsche   Drama,    pp.    109-113,    "Hrotsuit." 

(Miinchen,  1925). 
Alexander  Baumgartner,  S.  J.,  Geschichte  der  Weltliteratur:  4  vols. 
'     Die  Lateinische  und  Griechische  Literatur  der  Christlichen 

Volker,   vol.    4.    pp.    335-349,    "Hroswltha."      (Freiburg    im 

Breisgau,  1925). 
Karl  A.  Barack,  Die  Werke  der  Hrosvithxi.     (Nuremberg,  1858). 
The   Bollandists,    S.    J.,   Acta  SanctoTiim,    "Agnes"    Ian.    vol.    2.352; 

"Dionysius"   Ian.   vol.   2.215;    "Theophilus"   Feb.   vol.    1.480; 

"Gongolf"  Mai  vol.  2.641;     "Pelagius"  lun.  vol.  5.204. 
Evangeline  Blashfield,  Hroswitha:  her  Portraits  and  her  Backgrounds. 

(New  York,  1917). 
Michael  Buchberger,  Lexikon  fiir  Theologie  und  Kirche^,  8  vols.  Vol. 

6.  162-163,  "Hrosvith."      (Freiburg  in  Breisgau,  1930-1935). 
Dale   Darley,   "Hroswitha,   Nun   and   Dramatist,"   American  Catholic 

Qua/rterly  Review  39    (1919).     442-457. 
Charles  de  Smet,  Catholic  Encyclopedia,  vol.  2.  630-639,  "Bollandists." 
Edmund  Dorer,  Roswitha,  Die  l^onne  axis  Gandersheim.  (Aarau,  1857). 
William  Drake,  "Roswitha  aus  Gandersheim,"  Texas  South-Westerly 

Review  8  (1923).    252-272. 
Guido  Maria  Dreves,  S.  J.,  "Der  Hymnus  vom  Meeres-Stem,"  Stim- 

men  aus  Maria  Loach  50   (1896).     558-569. 
Adolf  Ebert,  Allgemeine  Geschichte  der  Literatur  des  Abendlandes : 

3   vols.     Literatur   des   Mittelalters,   vol.    3.    285.     (Leipzig, 

1875). 
Lina  Eckenstein,  Women  under  Monasticism,  pp.  154-183,  "Hroswitha 

of  Gandersheim."     (Cambridge,  1896). 
Johann  Grimm,  und  Anton  Schweller,  Lateinische  Gedichte  der  X  und 

XI  Jahrhunderte,  p.  xix.    (Gottinger,  1838). 
Anthony  Guggenberger,   S.   J.,  A   General  History  of  the   Christian 

Em,  3  vols.     The  Papacy  and  the  Empire,  vol.  1.  10.     (Saint 

Louis,  1915). 
William   Gundlach,   Heldenlieder  der  Deutschen  Kaiserzeit.     2   vols. 

Vol.   1.  224-404,  "Hrosvithas  Lebensgang;"     vol.   1.  208-224, 

"Der  Hrosvitha  Streit."     (Innsbruck,  1894). 
Karl  P.   Harrington,  Mediaeval  Latin.      (Chicago,   1925). 
Hermann  Herder,  Der  Grosse  Herder:  Nachschldge  fiir  Wissen  und 

Lehen*.   Vol.  6.  189-190;  "Hrosvitha."    (Freiburg  in  Breisgau, 

1931). 
William  H.  Hudson,  "Roswitha  of  Gandersheim,"  English  Historical 

Review  3  (July,  1888).    431-457. 

-269- 


Bibliography 

K.  A.  Heinrich  Keller,  Heortology.  A  History  of  the  Christian  Festi- 
vals.    (London,  1908). 

James  A,  Kleist,  S.  J.,  The  Memoirs  of  Saint  Peter.  (Saint  Louis, 
1931). 

Rudolf  Kopke,  "Hroswitha  von  Gandersheim"  in  Ottonische  Studien 
vol.  2.   1-25.      (Berlin,  1869). 

Oswald  H.  Kiihne,  "Recent  Literature  concerning  Hrotsvitha"  Classical 
Weekly  20  (1926-1927).    149-150. 

Otto  J.  Kuhnmiinch,  S.  J.,  Early  Christian  Latin  Poets:  From  the 
Fourth  to  the  Sixth  Century.     (Chicago,  1929). 

Max  Manitius,  Geschichte  der  Lateinischen  Literatur  des  Mittelalters : 
in  Ivan  Mlillers  Handbuch  der  Klassischen  Altertumswissen- 
schaft.  3  vols.  Vol.  1.  619-632,  "Hrosuitha."  (Miinchen, 
1931-1931). 

Abbe  Jacques  Paul  Migne,  Patrologia  Latina,  223  vols.  Vol.137. 
945-1135.     "Hrosuithae  Opera."      (Paris,  1844-1855). 

Theodor  Pfund,  Der  Hrotsuitha  Gedicht  iiher  Gandersheims  Griindung 
und  die  Thaten  Oddos  I.  Neubearbeitet  bei  W.  Wattenbach. 
(Leipzig,  1891). 

Conrad  Plumpe,  "Hrosvitha,  Nun  Poetess  and  Dramatist,"  America 
34    (1926).     587-589. 

Karl  Pohlheim,  Die  Lateinische  ReiTuprosa.     (Berlin,  1925). 

Frederick  James  E.  Raby,  A  History  of  Christian  Latin  Poetry, 
p.  208.     (Oxford,  1927). 

John  Edwin  Sandys,  History  of  Classical  Scholarship.  3  vols.  Vol. 
1.  486-487,  vol.  2.  607-608;  "Hroswitha".  (Cambridge,  1908- 
1921). 

Wilhelm  Scherer,  Quellen  und  Forschungen  zur  Sp^'ache  der  Germani- 
schen  Volker,  pp.  833-837.     (Berlin,  1874). 

Otto  Schmid  von  Liibeck,  Allgemeine  Deutsche  Biographic.  32  vols. 
Vol.  29.  292-294,  "Roswitha." 

N.  Scheid,  Catholic  Encyclopedia.    Vol.  7.  504-508,  "Hrosvitha." 

John  Schneiderhan,  Rostvitha  von  Gandersheim:  Die  Erste  Deutsche 
Dichterin.     (Paderborn,  1912). 

H.  L.  Schurzfleisch  und  D.  Pertz,  "Hrosuithae  Opera,"  Migne,  Patro- 
logia, vol.  137.  964-1135. 

Ferdinand  Sommer,  Handbuch  der  Lateinischen  Laut-  und  Formen- 
lehrc.     (Heidelberg,  1902). 

Christopher  St.  John,  The  Plays  of  Roswitlia,  Translated.  (London, 
1923). 

Friedrich  Stolz  und  J.  H.  Schmalz,  Lateinische  Grammatik:  Laut- 
und  Formenlehre  Syntax  und  Stilistik:  in  fiinfter  Auflage 
bearbeitet  von  Manu  Leuman  und  Job.  Bapt.  Hofman.  (Miin- 
chen, 1928). 

Karolus  Strecker,  Hrotsvithae  Opera-.     (Leipzig,  1930). 

-270- 


Bibliography 

Harry  E.  Wedeck,  "The  Humor  of  a  Mediaeval  Nun,"  Classical.  Week- 
ly 21  (1928).     192. 

Alice  Kemp  Welsch,  Of  Six  Mediaeval  Women,     (London,  19i:j). 

Carl  Weyman,  Christlich^Lateinisclie  Poesie,  pp.  223-224,  "Liturgisches 
bei  Hrosvitha."     (Leipzig,  1926). 

Paulus  von  Winterfeld,  Hrosvitfiae  Opera.     (Berlin,  1902). 

Frederick  W.  Wright  and  Thomas  A.  Sinclair,  A  History  of  Later 
Latin  Literature:  From  the  Middle  of  the  Fourth  to  the  End 
of  the  Seventeenth  Century.    (Chicago,  1931). 


-271- 


VITA  AUCTORIS 

Sister  M.  Gonsalva  Wiegand  was  born  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio, 
on  July  21,  1887.  She  obtained  her  elementary  education  at 
Saint  John  Parochial  School  of  that  city.  Her  high  school 
and  normal  studies  were  pursued  at  Immaculate  Concep- 
tion Academy  and  Saint  Francis  Normal  of  Oldenburg, 
Indiana. 

She  entered  the  novitiate  of  the  Sisters  of  Saint  Francis 
at  Oldenburg  in  1905  and  pronounced  her  religious  vows  on 
July  26,  1907.  In  the  fall  of  that  year  she  began  her  career 
as  an  elementary  teacher.  The  period  from  1907-1926  was 
spent  in  the  elementary  schools  of  her  native  city.  Having 
obtained  the  A.  B.  degree  from  Xavier  University  in  1926, 
she  joined  the  faculty  of  Elder  High  School,  Cincinnati,  as 
a  teacher  of  Latin  and  English.  Transferred  to  Indianapolis 
in  1927,  she  taught  Latin,  German,  and  Science  at  Saint 
Mary  Academy. 

On  August  5,  1930,  she  received  the  A.  M.  degree  at  Notre 
Dame  University.  She  enrolled  in  the  Graduate  School  of 
Saint  Louis  University  in  the  summer  of  1931,  with  Latin 
as  a  major,  and  German  and  Mediaeval  Latin  as  minor  sub- 
jects. The  years  1933-1934  and  1934-1935  were  spent  in 
residence  at  the  University. 

She  is  at  present  Professor  of  Languages  in  Cincinnati, 
at  the  Archdiocesan  Teachers  College  of  the  Athenaeum  of 
Ohio. 


273- 


r^ 


^ 
^<<- 


