Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


db,  Google 


db,  Google 


db,  Google 


,  Google 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES^^s^ 


jScliiiim  ot  {nttrtommunitation 


LITEEAET   MEN,    GENERAL   HEADERS,    ETC. 


"  WlieiL  fonsd,  make  ft  not*  ef."— Capuih  CxmuL 


fourth,   sbeies. —volume    seventh. 
Jahuary — June  1871. 


LONDON: 

OFFICE,    43    WELLINaTON    STREET,    STBAND,    W.C 
1871. 


Digiiized  by  CjQOQ  IC 


S8A.,4 

V.7 


db,  Google 


4*8.  TIL  Jab.  7, 71,] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


tOjntOir,  aATUBDAT, 

CONTENTS.— N»  168. 

KOTBB!  — AllPfor7in"the  Pwrio  QuBon,"  1  —  Latlerurf 
Nell  Gwvniie  mid  Kitty  CUie.  2  —  Mom  Vultur,  3—  Lon- 
don Caire«  Boiuca,  6  —  Iiogal  ODniiiion.I>lio«,  tontp. 
JUDC*  1..  Ib.—Ciaxbon  doTiTre:  n  LiefO  Legeiid.  J  — 
Dr.  Arbuthnot.S  — An  loodited  E1(«;  ta;  Oliin  Ootd- 
nnUh  —  IMunpHKlH  In  Datrg  — The  lf>to  Hlr  fiimuel 
O'Hallej.  Bart.  — BhrDiHbire8ajrliiK«— E;iI■■pBlU'lAl■c4  — 
ATtrsce  of  Humn  Ufe  — Fnnch  War  Sonfi  —  Hunt 
Oenla  Tunnel, ». 

QUSBtBK:  — Allnrion winted r  Hcniy  Vnnrtmn- Amtrl- 
can  -NUlonil  Bonn"—  Anna  of  Flemwh  Fnmlllea  — 
Bmb  Audlc;  of  Mndbwh  —  Bible  llluatntkmi  -  Jobn 
Borer  —  Cathfldnl  Bell*  —  Cobblon'  Lunbi  in  Ilal;  — 
CookBB;  Cooliewjr;  Cooke  —  Coniiih  smken  In  Devon- 
ahire  — The  Dncon— Eistrm  Storr- Sir  Charlss^nr- 
ton,  Knight  —  SqulvuleDt  ForelEn  Titio  — "  Le  Farceur 

-*-■  '- ■■-  la  Nuif- Letter  o"'-'-'--      "--'■•- 

iknlM  -  B  ■        - 

.. ,.       Pnol«.or! 

printed  Hooks— The  Pri 

tfBnunclfltion  of  Greek  and  Latin,  At,  11. 

BEPLIES;  —The  Block  Books,  13  —  Parodies,  IS  —  The 
~  Blae-Lavi  "  of  Connecticut,  18  —  St.  Auguetin's  Ser- 
moni.lT  — 4  Winlnr  Saving  -  Bobur  t^aroll  —  Pear  Tree 

—  B>Rht  to  auirter  Amu  — Baron  Nicholion  —  Epigram 
oo  tbe  Walcfieron  Bipedltlon  —  Bobrrt  de  Comjii,  B«rl 
of  NoTthumbarltnd — CacumbBT  —  Lothing  Land  —  "  Cer- 
toalno" —  Ancient  BooUijh  Deed  ~  Hojal  Toimgriphy  — 
l^alet  of  Ampi^- "Tberewas  a  Uttle  Han"- The 
gwan^Song  of  PanoD  Axery  —  Irish  Forfelturea  —  Fatehin 

—  Tbe  BoDbnter  Boapjtal  —  Babiea'  Bella  — Eratatlci  — 
Bamplers  —  Tbe  Bi^-Blabop  of  the  Propaganda  for  Cbrlit- 
mu  —  Dor  or  Door— The  Piri*  Cataeomba,  Ac.  IS. 


ALLEGOBT  IN  "THE  FAEEIE  QDEEN." 

■  BtjlM  bia  poem  "a  coctiriued  aUegoij 


bpensert 
IT  dark  cod 


or  dark  conceit";  but  he  doea  not  bj  that  mean 
to  Baj  tbat  it  forms  one  continued  allegory  in  tbe 
teaae  in  vhicit  we  now  underatand  the  term.  In 
fact  there  is  but  one  allegfiCT  in  it — aamelj,  the 
firat  book,  "  The  Legend  of  Holiness  "•  and  in  all 
tb«  rest  of  thAuein  tbe  chaiactera  are  mere 
impersonations  of  morel  or  phjaicol  qualities,  or 
of  real  persons,  without  anyspedallj  eonnected 
series  of  events,  I  will  here  bnefiy  state  my  con- 
ceptimi  of  what  I  regard  as  the  only  allegoiy  of 
tbe  poem.  This,  then,  I  take  Ic  be  the  history 
of  the  Church  from  its  commenceineDt  till  the 
poet's  own  time.  In  Una  I  see,  not  Truth  simply, 
bat  the  True  Church ;  in  Duessa,  not  mere  False- 
hood, but  the  False  Church— that  of  Rome.  The 
father  and  mother  of  Una,  the  king  and  queen 
of  Eden,  I  take  to  be  God  the  FaUier  and  the 
andesit  Adnmic  or  patnarchal  Church.  In  tha 
Diafpod  I  discern  the  ^at  enemy  of  man,  Satan.- 
In  tbe  Ked-CTOss  Eni^ht  the  Christian  people, 
n-presented  by  St.  George^  the  patron  saint  of 
England,  the  great  champion  of  tbe  true  faith ; 
and  finally,  in  Archimage,  Satan  in  his  charaotor 
of  tbe  tempter  and  seducer. 

The  adTentoree  of  the  knight  begin  with  bis 
entering  the  grore  of  Error,  and  his  encounter- 
ing and  slaying  tbat  monster.    By  this  ia  pro- 


bably meant  the  conflict  with  tbe  Tarioua  forma 
of  religious  error  or  heresy  in  the  Cburcb.  Arch- 
image  then  trios  bis  wiles,  and  separates  tbe 
kni^t  from  Una;  but  his  doinr  so  by  making 
him  suspect  ber  purity  seems  rather  to  break  the  / 
allegory.  However,  he  abandons  her,  and  then 
falls  in  with  Duessa  in  company  with  a  "  futbless 
Sarazin  "  named  Sansfoy,  tbat  is,  Paganism,  whom 
be  slays;  and  be  ia  then  deceived  fay  Duessa,  who 
conducts  him  to  the  House  of  Pride,  tbat  is,  tho 
Roman  Empire,  which  now  becomes  Christian. 
Here  be  encounters  and  slays  a  brother  of  Sansfoy, 
named  Saasjo^,  by  which  is  perhaps  meant  tha 
joyless  condition  of  tbe  Empire  when  separated 
from  tlie  True  Cburcb,  On  his  discovering  the 
real  nature  of  tbe  House  of  Pride,  he  seizes  the 
earliest  opportunity  of  flight,  and  abandons  it. 

Una  meanwhile  wanders  alone  in  search  of  tbe 
champion  who  had  deserted  her.  She  meets  with 
a  lion,  who  becomes  her  protector.  This  lion 
forces  an  entrance  for  ber  into  tbe  bouse  of  Cor- 
ceca  and  Abessa,  and  kills  Kirkrapine,  tbe  para- 
mour of  tbe  latter ;  but  is  himself  slain  soon  after, 
defending  Una  against  a  Paynim  named  Sanaloy, 
who  bad  overcome  Archimage,  who  had  rejoined 
herunder  the  form  of  tbe  Red-cross  Enight  From 
him  she  is  delivered  bv  a  band  of  fawns  and 
aatyra  whom  her  abriekB  brought  to  her  aid. 
They  lead  her  to  their  abode  in  the  woods  and 
mountains,  where  she  lives  among  them  and  in- 
Btiucts  them  in  morals  and  religion.  By  tbe  aid 
of  a  knight  named  Sir  Satyrane  she  leaves  them, 
and  sets  out  agun  in  quest  of  the  Red-cross 
Enight. 

Id  this  part  of  the  allegory  the  lion  seems  to 
signify  tiie  counts  of  Toulouse,  who  protected  the 
True  Church  wainst  tbat  of  Borne,  and  guned  its 
members  admission  into  tbe  religious  houses 
agmnst  the  will  of  their  inmates,  and  punished 
those  who  made  spoil  of  sacred  things.  By  the 
Paynim  Sansloy  may  iie  meant  the  papal  adhereuta 
under  De  Montfort  and  others,  who  overcame  the 
counts  of  Toulouse,  and  from  whom  Una  b  saved 
by  the  satyrs,  that  ia,  the  Waldepses,  whoso 
abode  was  m  tbe  woods  and  valleys  of  Svritzer- 
land.  Sir  Satyrane,  who  ia  connected  with  tbem, 
I  take  to  represent  tbe  Huguenots  of  France,  who 
derived  their  creed  and  their  name  from  the 
reformer  of  Switzerland;  and  it  is  very  remark- 
able tbat  he  and  Sansloy  are  left  fighting— just 
as  tbe  Huguenots  and  tbe  Papists  were  at  the 
time— and  are  not  mentioned  any  more  in  this 
book. 

Tbe  Red-cross  Eni^t  meantime  ia  overlaken 
and  agfun  seduced  by  Duessa,  and  he  drinks  of  a 
fountdn.  tbe  water  of  which  quite  enervates  bim, 
and  be  is  then  seized  and  tlirown  into  a  loath- 
some dungeon  by  a  huge  giant,  who  makes 
Duessa  his  leman,  dressea  ber  ma^Gcentlv,  and 
monnta  ber  on  a  strange  beast  witk  aeven  bead«.  i 
;i:izea  by  VjOOy  It 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4aS.TII.jA«.r,TI. 


Here  tben  we  bnTe  in  this  giant  Chulemagne 
and  bis  miccessoK,  the  powei  and  glory  of  the 
PapftCT,  and  the  misenble  thraldom  of  the 
Cbristitio  people. 

Una  having  learned  the  fate  of  her  knigbt,  now 
appeals  to  Pnnoe  Arthur,  whom  abe  meeto ;  and 
he  fights  and  alajs  the  ^nt,  delivers  t^e  knight, 
and  strips  and  exposes  Duessa,  who  fiies  to  Hide 
her  shams  in  the  wilderness.  Prince  Arthur,  the 
poet  tells  qs,  is  Magnificence,  ■'.  e.  the  doin^  of 
great  deeds.  He  is  the  impersonation  of  Bntish 
royalty  as  shown  forth  in  the  house  of  Tudor, 
and  W8  have  here  the  victory  of  that  house  over 
the  papacy  and  its  abettors. 

In  order  to  restore  her  knight  to  the  vieeur 
requisite  for  his  conflict  with  tbe  dragon,  Una 
now  leads  him  to  tbe  House  of  HoUnesSj  where 
he  is  put  through  a  course  of  instruction  and 
discipline  bv  Futh,  Hope,  and  Charity,  the  daugh- 
ters of  Holiness.  He  then  engages  the  dragon, 
whom  be  overcomes  and  slays  alter  a  perilona 
conflict  of  three  daya'  duration.  At  the  end  of 
tbe  first  day,  when  tbe  hero's  strength  is  nearly 
exhausted,  it  is  restored  by  his  falling  into  tbe 
Well  of  Life ;  and  at  the  end  of  the  second  day 


tbe  well  and  tree  I  think  the  two  sacramenb 
seem  to  be  indicated.    The  remainder  of  the 

allegory  is  simple  and  easy  to  be  understood, 

I  will  only  mrther  observe,  that  the  allegorical 
chanusters  cease  with  this  book.  So  when  we 
meet  with  the  Red-cross  Enight  and  Satyrane 
again,  they  are  simply  knights  of  Faerie,  Archi- 
mage  a  mere  enchanter,  and  Duessa  tbe  Queen 

of  Scots.  THDB.  KUBHTLET. 


LETTEES   OF   NELt   OWTNNE  AND   KiriT 

CLIVE. 
Deab  Mr.  Esitob— 

Id  your  interesting  Miscellany  yon  have  re- 
cently introduced  two  letters  from  Nell  Qwynne, 
I  think  it  might  please  your  readers  to  have  a 
copy  of  her  letter  which  is  in  my  collection  of 
auto^aphs.  It  is,  no  doubt,  authentic,  and  was 
formerly  in  tbe  possession  of  Mr.  Singer,  at  whose 
ssle  I  bought  it.  It  was  so  well  illustrated  by 
our  dear  mutual  friend  Mr.  Bruce,  and  introduced 
by  him,  with  same  others,  into  tbe  CamJen  MU- 
cellimif  (ml.  v.>,  that  I  addto  it  bisvaluablenolcs. 
I  also  enclose  another  curious  specimen,  written 
by  the  famous  Eittv  Clive,  addressed  no  doubt 
to  her  friend  Mias  Po^  the  actress,  of  whom 
Horace  Walpole,  writing  to  the  Counteas  of 
Ossory  on  July  16,  1788,  says:— 

"  Miss  Pope  his  bean  at  Mn.  CUtc'i  this  week,  and  I 
have  Dot  b«n  able  to  call  on  them.  I  wrote  a  line  of 
cicuK,  bat  hoped  very  soon  to  salate  Jliu  Fept't  ifi. 
Excuse  my  ToMagt,  bat  wbat  better  can  yoa  expect  i  " 


Kitty's  letter:  — 

"  It  is  very  tme  Hadarn  we  are  robbed  in  the  &ca  of 
the  Sun,  ■■  well  as  at  tbe  golni;  down  thereof.  I  know 
not  how  otber  districts  fare,  but  for  fire  milea  ronitd  ds 
we  an  In  perpetual  je(msrdj.  Two  of  our  Jiuticee,  i«- 
taming  from  a  Cabinet  Council  of  their  owo,  at  Brent- 
ford, were  robbed  last  week  before  three  o'clock,  at  tbe 
gates  of  Twickenham :  nowoDder;  1  believe  they  are  all 
hoodwinked,  like  their  AIikb  Mater  herself,  and,  coose- 

rndf  as  they  cannot  eee,  it  is  not  sorprising  that  both 
and  they  abauld  often  weigh  oat  their  goods  with 
naeqoal  acalea." 

Can  you  or  any  of  your  readers  tell  me  who 
Mrs.  Hart  was,  and  tbe  "old  Weasel  which  sha 
left  behind"?  '  WiixiAM  Trn. 

48,  Lowndes  Sqnare. 

pray  Deaie  Mr.  Hide '  forgive  me  for  not  write- 
ing  to  you  before  now  for  the  reasons  is  I  have 
bin  dck  thre  months  &  sinse  I  recoverd  I  hava 
bad  nothing  to  intertaine  you  witball  nor  have 
nothing  now  worth  writing  but  that  I  can  holda 
no  longer  to  let  yon  know  I  never  have  ben  in 
any  companie  wetbout  drinking  your  health  for 
I  loue  you  with  all  my  soule.  the  pel  mel  is  now 
to  me  a  dismals  plese  sinso;  I  have  utcrly  lost  S' 
CarScrope'never  toberecourdagane  for  he  tould 
me  he  could  not  live  allwayes  at  this  rate  &  to 
begune  to  be  a,Iittel  uncivil,  ^whicb  I  could  not 
sufer  from  an  uglve  baux  gartcon.  M'  Enighta* 
Lady  mothers  dean  &  she  has  put  up'ascutchm  no 


beiger  then  my  Lady  grins' 


My  lord 


Lory  or  Lawrence  tvde,  second  son  of  Lord  Chancellor 
Clarendon,  created  Bart  of  Rochester  in  16Si.  Id  May 
and  Jnna  1678  he  was  at  the  Hagne  |y  diplomatic  basi- 
nesl.  ( GrjvjpnuJenCf  of  Garendon  and  HochttttTi  L 
16,  20.) 

a  Sir  Carr  Scrope  was  created  a  baronet  IG6T-8,  and 
died  anmarried  1680.  Be  was  one  of  tbe  witty  com- 
panions of  Charles  II.,  and  aathor  of  variona  poetical 
effosions.  to  be  fonud  in  Dryden's  Miictlbaiiti.  Johnsoo 
notices  hlni  la  bis  life  of  Rochester. 

>  Mrs.  Knigbt,  a  singer  of  great  celebritv,  and  a  rival 
to  Nell  Gwynne  in  the  tender  regard  of  Charles  II.  She 
is  mentioned  by  both  Kvelyn  and  Fepyi.  although  the 
latter  had  not  heard  her  sing  up  to  Ibe  period  at  which 
his  diary  closes.  The  name  of  ber  Lady-mother  has  not 
been  found. 

*  Lady  Greene,  who  escaped  the  leaearcbes  of  Mn. 
Baucx,  has  been  identified  by  Ur.  J.  G.  XtcnoLa 
("N.  A  Q."  9''  3.  Tiii.  418).  Site  was  another  faYourite 
of  Charles  II.,  by  whom  she  was  the  mother  of  bis  bod 
Charles  Fiti-Charles,  created  ia  1675  Earl  of  Plymouth, 
and  of  I  daughter  Kitherine.  Lady  Greene  was  Ea- 
therlne,  daughter  of  Ttiomas  Pegge,  Esq.  of  Yeldetsley, 
CO.  Derby ;  became  the  wife  of  Sir  Edward  Greene,  Itart. 
of  Sampford  in  Essex,  who  died  in  Flinden  in  1676. 
Lady  Greene  herself  had  proliably  died  shortly  befbre  tfaia 
letter  was  written.— Ei).  "N.&  Q." 

*  •  Probsblv  the  writer  misplaced  the  a  In  this  word, 
writing  inoiciif  for  iCiicAiiM.  b  A— itXiQiC 


■■■  l^nl  Hnrlara,  u  ir<  uare  altead^  DotlcM,  «u  toe 
(Ucr  dT  Nell  Qwynoe's  two  cbildran  by  the  kiog.  Ha 
'u  born  eth  Mar,  1670,  created  Lord  Borford  oa  th« 
i7lh  December,  1676,  and  Doke  of  SL  Albu's  on  tha  10th 
Ju.  lfl«3-l. 

"  Lord  Beancleik,  Nail  GwTiiiie'g  j-aanger  aon,  was 
Ixan  !5[h  Decembtr,  1671,  and  died,  a*  «a  have  before 
nmatked,  at  Paiia  in  Septambar,  1680. 

'*  Ladj  Harrey  was  Elixabetb,  liatar  of  Ralph  third 


Kaisaea  represenuiive  oi  laat,  cm 
Harvey  on  the  atage.  in  the  chi 
Ladj'  Hatvey  "  provided  people 


of  Serapronia. 

her  and  flinff 
igea  at  her,"  and,  that  being  aDBacceMTal,  procured 
lord  Chamberlain  to  imprison  her.     Lad;  Castle- 


_  made  the  king 

tnrbanca  «aa  ---■-'  ' 
In  the  mean  t 
bawador  to  CoaBtaatiaopIc 


Ited  both  in  tba  tbaatra  and  at  conrt.   '  i  -i/  -ii)  [p 
Sir  Duilel  Hbtvb;  waaaent  away  am*— ^*-^*-^^  '*- 


NOTES  AKD  QQEKIES.  , 


ti^S.VIl.  JAS.7,7i. 


cliestnuts,  tad,  in  its  higher  ranges,  with  beeches 
and  pinea.     It  was  Bucb  a  day  for  heat  as  inspired 
Horace  to  OMg  {Cartn.  III.  4,  9) :  — 
"  He  fabnlasBB  Yultare  in  Appnlo, 
Altiidn  extra  limen  &  puUie, 
Ludo  faUgBlumque  Bomoo 
Fronde  novi  pueium  palumbea 
Teiere." 
Woodpigeons  are  still  as  Dumeroiu  as  they 
vere  in  the  davs  of  Horace ;  while  the  cooiDg  of 
the  doTB  and  tLe  humming  of  the  bees  invited  to 
sleep.    I  approached  the  mountain  from  the  side 
of  Melfi,  which  gives  name  to  the  highest  peak, 
"11  Pizzuto  di  Melfi,"  four  thousand  three  liuit- 
dred  and  fifty-seTen  feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea. 
The  approach  to  the  mountain  is  through  vine- 
yards, which  grow  with  great  luiuriance,  as  vines 
always  do  on  volcanic  seals.    The  wine  is  strong, 
and  requires  dilution  for  the  sober  Italian. 

At  the  foot  of  the  mountain  to  the  north,  the 
Anfidus  could  be  traced  for  man^  miles  by  the 
winding  of  the  valley  through  which  it  mns.  Id 
its  upper  eonree  it  is  a  stream  of  no  great  siie  in 
summer,  though  evidently  a  violent  torrent  from 
the  winter  enow  and  rain.  I  can  easily  under- 
stand why  its  presiding  nymjihs  should  have  been 
propitiated  by  the  superstitious,  as  the  following 
inscription  shows :  — 

iriMPHia  .  ATFIBI 

BEKTAIBTa  .  BADE 
C  .  MAOIVS  .  0  .  F 

YELLBIiUVS 
BEST   .    £T   .    DEDIC    . 

It  is  particularly  interesting  to  find  the  name 
of  MsgiuB  Velleianua  in  this  neighbourhood,  and 
we  cannot  but  imagine  that  we  may  have  here 
Ma^i^us  Celer  Velleianus,  brother  of  the  historian 
Velleius  Paterculus,  who  served  as  leeata  to 
Tiberius  in  the  Dalmatian  war  a.d.  9,  and  shared 
in  the  honours  of  his  commander's  triumph.  At 
the  time  of  Augustus's  death  (a.d.  14),  he  and 
his  brother  were  the  "  caudidati  Ccesaris  "  for  the 
prfBtorship  (VdO.  Pat.  n.  116,  121, 124).  It  is 
the  more  likely  that  this  should  he  so,  as  the 
family,  though  originally  of  the  hig-hest  rank  in 
Capua  (Liv.  xxiii.  7, 10),  were  evidently  settled 
in  this  direction,  as  the  "atavus"  of  Velloius 
Paterculus  is  called  by  him  "  Asculanensis  "  (Veil. 
Fat.  n.  16),  distinguished  in  the  Social  War 
(b.C^)  by  his  fidelity  to  the  Romans.  Now 
Asculum  Apulum  Atcoli  is  at  no  great  distance 


&om  the  banks  of  the  Aufidus,  and  the  property 
■J        -    othemnn- 
dations  of  the  river. 


of  Magius  might  be  often  subjected  to  tl 


The  forest  Sfonticchio,  with  its  lofty  and  aged 
trees,  afforded  a  pleasant  shade  as  I  ascended  the 
■lopes.  There  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  volcanic 
nature  of  the  mountain :  there  are  several  craters, 
but  one  in  particular  far  more  perfect  than  that  of 
Vesuvius.    The  ndes  of  this  crater  rise  in  nearly 


an  unbroken  line  around,  dotted  with  finer  speci- 
mens of  timber  than  I  bate  ever  seen,  even  in 
our  northern  regions.  Historical  records  ore  silent 
as  to  the  time  when  it  was  in  operation;  but  the 
intelligent  inhabitanta  mtuctain  that  tl)ey  would 
be  in  a  ereat  measure  relieved  from  the  earth- 
quakes that  desolate  their  countiy  if  it  were 
agun  to  burst  forth  and  let  off  the  pent-up  gases 
underground. 

It  is  curious  that  I  should  have  heard  the  same 
observation  when  I  was  (it  Caaal  Nuovo,  in 
southern  Calabria,  the  centrsl  spot,  where  the 
earthquake  of  1763  had  been  felt  moat  severely, 
and  where  the  Princess  Gerace  and  many  thou- 
sands of  the  inhabitants  had  been  swallowed  up. 
Towards  the  south  my  host  pointed  to  the  highest 
mountaia,  Aspromonle,  and  said  that  all  their 
calamities  arose  from  that  central  point.  This 
was  the  opinion  of  one  who  had  watdied  for  half 
a  century  the  shocks  to  which  they  were  con- 
stantly subject,  and  this  man,  abwrmit  napiem, 
was  probably  not  far  from  the  truth. 

In  the  larpeat  crater  of  Mona  Vultur  are  two 
small  lakes,  from  which  at  times  issue  sulphureous 
exhalations,  like  those  which  rise  from  Lacus 
Ampsanctua,  which  is  at  no  ereat  distance,  and  is 
no  doubt  counected  with  thi^  ancient  volcano. 
The  inhabitants,  feel  that  they  are  resting  on  a 
volcano  that  mi^ht  burst  out  at  any  moment,  as 
Vesuvius  did  eighteen  hundred  years  ago;  bat 
the  Italians  are  in  genera!  a  pious  race,  and  have 
much  dependence  on  a  Higher  Power.  They  havff 
frequent  admoniUous  by  slight  shocks ;  and  I  was 
told  that  the  appearance  ot  the  lakes  gave  warn- 
ing of  what  was  likely  to  happen,  as  they  became 
more  turbulent  and  threw  out  exhalations  more 
hirgely  before  a  severe  shock  took  place.  There 
are  more  than  a  dozen  cones  scattered  over  the 
surface  of  the  mountain,  but,  what  is  very  curious, 
no  appearance  of  any  extensive  stream  of  lava. 
To  my  eye,  the  little  lava  I  saw  had  much  more 
of  a  basaltic  structure  than  what  I  had  been 
accustomed  to  see  round  the  base  of  Vesuvius. 

Sulphureous  springs  are  abundant  I  heard  of 
"una  mofeta  con  due  bocehe"  at  La  Rendina, 
where  the  country  was  efBorescent  with  sulphur. 
At  Barile,  origmally  a  colony  of  Albanians,  there 
is  another  very  powerful  spring,  which  is  used  for 
chronic  diseases  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  sur- 
rounding country.  Near  Atella  there  is  said  to 
be  another  still  more  strongly  satuntted;  indeed, 
on  every  side  of  the  mountain  such  springs 
abound. 

There  is  an  idea  prevalent  among  Italian 
geologists  that  Mons  Vultur  was  in  distant  ages 
close  to  the  Adriatic,  as  thev  believe  that  Puglia 
Pisna,  as  it  is  called,  was  then  submerged,  and 


only  nusad  gradoally  by  the  violent  throes  of 

""  lonbt  that  thu  mrt  of  Italy 

above  the  level  of  the  sea, 


nature,    Thwe 
is  only  slightly 


0  by  Google 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


&nd  Venusia  would  have  then  formed  an  inUnd 
bay. 

I  tntvelled  for  thirty  miies  nlong  the  baoka  of 
the  Aufidus,  from  CauQce  to  Veaufiia,  and  I  was 
particularlj  struck  bj  the  level  nature  of  the 
oonnlTj  till  I  amved  near  to  the  Urth-place  of 
HoMce.  Venuda  stands  in  the  water-shed  of  a 
ridge,  on  one  nde  of  which  the  waters  flow  into 
the  Aufidus  and  hence  into  the  Adriatic,  while 
on  the  othei  the;  fall  into  the  river  Bradamis, 
DOW  Bradano,  at  the  mouth  of  which  I  found, 
some  fifty  miles  farther  south,  the  rains  of  the 
celebrated  temple  at  Metepontum,  now  known  to 
the  inhabilanta  as  "  Tavola  dei  Paladini."  The 
Bndanus  has  a  long  course,  taking  its  rise  at  the 
foot  of  Mons  VultiiT,  and  flowing  southward  into 
the  Oulf  of  Tarauto,  it  formed  the  boundary 
between  Apulia  and  Lucanin. 

At  the  time  when  Fuglia  fHana  ia  supposed  to 
hnve  been  submerged,  (geologists  imagine  that  the 
Oulf  of  Taisnto  was  united  to  the  Adriatic  acroes 
the  neck  of  land  which  joins  Brundusium  to 
Tarentam:  so  that  the  Japygiiui  peninsula  must 
then  have  been  an  island.  No  doubt  this  neck  of 
Und  is  at  no  great  height  above  the  sea  level.  I 
trarelled  along  it  from  Manduria,  through  Uria, 
to  Brunduuum.  I  found  that  it  waa  at  Uria  Lhe 
central  point,  where  the  ridge  began  to  rise, 
which  runs  northward  and  forms  what  is  known 
to  the  Italians  as  Puglia  Fietrosn.  A  very  slight 
subsidence  would  again  make  the  Japygian  penin- 
sula into  an  island. 

Cbacpued  Tait  Rakage. 


LONDON  COFFEE  HOUSES. 

I  have  in  my  possession  a  copy  of  Mendez's  Col- 
bction  of  Poems,  which  you  are  aware  was  pub- 
lished in  1707  OS  n  supplement  to  Dodsley's 
Collection.  I  am  not  about  to -make  any  remark 
upon  the  book  itself  j  but  on  the  Sy-leaves,  st  Che 
beginning  and  end,  are  written  in  the  neatest  of 
hands  two  poems.  One  is  called  "  The  Quakers' 
Ueettn«',  by  Mr.  John  Ellis: "  this  I  do  not  propose 
to  trouble  you  with,  as  it  has  no  great  merit,  snd 
would  not  suit  the  taste  of  the  present  day.  The 
other,  however,  may  be  interesting,  not  as  a  poem, 
bnt  as  iUuRtrating  the  manners  and  customs  of 
onr  ancestors,  and  as  recalling  the  memory  of 
many  houses  of  public  resort  and  entertainment 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  Royal  Exchange, 
many  of  them  probahly  being  no  longer  in  exist- 
eoea.  It  is  called  an  "Epistle  from  M.  Mendez, 
Esq.,  to  Mr.  J.  Ellis" — no  doubt  the  author  of 
the  other  poem,  but  of  nhom  the  biographical 
books  (tt  present  at  my  call  do  not  (^ve  any 
account.  He  was,  no  doubt,  a  choice  spirit  of  the 
day,  or,  more  correctly  perhiipe,  the  night. 

1  gire  yon  the  whole  poem,  but  there  is  one 


'  When  lo  Ellis  I  write,  I  in  verse  mast  iodile  — 

Come  PbicbuE,  and  give  me  a  knock  : 
For  on  FriJaj  at  eight,  all  behind  the  'Change  gate, 
Mr.  £tlia  will  be  at  tlie  Cock. 

I  wUI  try  to  be  ther^  where  I  firmlv  daclare 


Not  the  Head  of  the  Pop 
Such  wine  oa  we  drin! 

a  shall  invite  us  to 
at  the  Cook. 

tope 

In  learn'd  Abchnrch  Lane  let  them  awill  their  oham 

'TUI  lhe  nqaor  their  M 

Let  them  fiddle  and  aing 

\Vc  have  wit  with  oar 

n«isb«ni<«ki 
at  the  Arms  of  the 
wine  at  the  Cock. 

King, 

A  Swan 
Andt 

tblacAkatisR 
e  Swaji  in  a  H 

wonder, 'tis  ime, 

IS  deeper  red  at  the  Cock. 


<  A  bumper,  no  less,  'tis  (a  Britain's  success. 
Ma3'  her  navv  stand  stoat  as  a  rock  i 
May  >he  bang  the  Ftench  fleet  wheresoever  thay  meet, 
And  make  them  a  mere  Shrove-tide  Cock. 

"  Tis  time  to  be  cone,  for  lbs  'Change  boa  Struck  one: 
O,  'tis  in  impertiaect  dock  I 
For  with  Ellia  I'd  stay  from  September  to  Mayj 
I'll  Slick  to  my  friend  end  the  Cock. 

•     "  M.  M." 
EiclnnoniJ,  Surrey.  ■^'.  C. 


LEGAL  COMMON-PLACES,  temp-  JAMES  I. 

I  have  a  dilapidated  common-place  book  in 
which  are  entered  several  MS.  notes  of  eases,  rules 
and  orders  of  Court,  dicta  of  judges,  and  legal 
memoranda,  in  two  different  hands — those  dated 
1601,  2,  8,  apparently  copied  from  original  notes 
by  a  clerk,  and  those  of  1004,  5j  6,  7  in  the  re- 
porter's own  handwriting,  which  is  somewhat  dif- 
ficult to  decipher.  The  Lord  Keeper  named  waa 
doubtiess  Sir  Thomas  Egerton,  anerwarda  Lord 
Chancellor ;  the  Attorney-general,  Sir  Edward 
Coke.  Mr.  Bacon  was  Francis  Bacon,  who  be- 
came   lord  Chancellor  i  Hunt,  LL.D.,  a 

Master  in  Chancery,  and  in  160S  Master  of  the 
Eolls. 

•  The  entries  are  under  the  following  heads ; — 
Subpoena,  Attachments,  Comisuone,  Respondones, 
Qenerall  obseivacoDS,  tTiter  alia.  1601, 

*•  None  may  make  or  passe  greens  Bookes  by  my  I.order 
appoynlinent  [et  this  present]  bnt  6.  (vli.)  my  ftthes 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


(4'1'S.vn.  Jjx.7,': 


;r  tbf  n  ■  Ihowsam 


(bat  not  uCierka  of  the  Croirne)  rthe  clearkeofj  th« 
Hamper  ind  4  more,  or  sucli  ea  my  Lord  sball  nominste, 
but  he  maj  naine  as  manie  ■>  he  like. 

Tbe  reason  wliie  sett  bund  bnokes  or  groene  bookca  be 
vrilt  in  vellum  ya  L^cause  )bat  everfc  vorde  tberin  is 
wrKlen  at  lerglhl  as  Ricbardna  and  noe  RicbQ^  and  not 

TermlnoMicliU  anno  R.  Segii  Jac'  nrimn  apud  Winlon 
1603,  U  Novemhr.  Tills  terms  for  the  sickn«  was  ad- 
ioiaed  vnto  Wiiitdu  Citiv :  lill  Cm.  Martini.  Tbe  mcote 
poynt  was  berion.  whether  [bo  dav  of  CiO.  Jlirtyni,  or 
Ib«  i  daje  after  (^  ii.)  Twes.lnv,  sboiilde  be  thcfiisto  dave 
or  not,  vt  was  resulanl  it.  M'  Tjndill  toald  ni  so  in  the 
King's  Bedchamber  at  Winchester,  that  beloge  madelbe 

_■. — ,.  ., 1.._  1- — p„  Loi,  Chancellor. 

-PulilioacCn — Demurrer  — E  xamin- 
■cOn  of  WiUntsipa — Bra  ile  Exocucof — Beplicotiona — 
Rdunctio— Dcdim*  Polestatfm— Acute  et  grariler  diet]-. 

M' Bacon  layd:  Ibe  poore  man  went  like  ■  sheepe  to 
■  Boihe  in  ■  storme,  and  he  robbed  him  of  all  his  »oc>11. 

Let  one  devill  tormoiit  the  other  irnyd  my  Lord  Kecfi' 
to  a  question  askcl  liim  what  should  become  of  tlie 
Broker;  that  both  Broker  ib  rusurer  bad  conspired  id 
co^n  a  jountie  Kentleman. 

One  oath  in  the  alGrma 
in  the  negative. 

U'  D'tor  Ilant  in  Conrte  bcinge  deinaunded  tbe  cirill 
lave  rule  in  witnesses. 

My  Lo''*  Keeji  sayd  no  man  goeth  l)y  the  Kings  high- 
way hot  the  dofrgs  will  Imrke  at  hiin!  nearer  kit  an 
hane«t  man  can  for  yll  wordes,  they  be  but  dogga  bark- 
Inge. 

in  B  maltha  of  yll  carriage:  alihongbe  there  be  no 
flpparant  proofcs,  j^et  everie  su^picfln  carrielh  hts  force: 
and  y(  there  be  snodrie  easpllions  omnea  auapitiooes 
creieimt,  sayth  my  Lti'''  Keeji. 

I  will  not  cutt  the  bodj-e  because  tbe  coale  is  too  Httle, 
■peikinge  of  a  mans  intent  bj  his  last  will  to  estate  some 
«f  bis  (Mends,  but  wanted  forme.    [Ld.  Keeji  in  margin.] 

Qui  in  p'tibna  mentitnr  ncrnrius  est. 

<lui  Tuam  et  eandem  rem  duol'us  vendit,  fraodnlenlns 


s  patrem    [altered    from 

Magis  et  minns  non  difTerant  specie.  My  Lord  Keep 
spceklnge  that  4  iu  tbe  hundred  waa  as  mnch  vsuric  as 
10  io  Ibe  hundred. 

Lilts  et  leris  alieni  cnmes  mii?rii.     Idem. 

You  had  tbe  Bird  in  to'  hand,  rou  might  kill  him  or 
lett  bim  tlie  at  yo'  pleasure.    Idein. 

Plus  Talent  duo  atBnoantes  quam  mills  negantes. 
Doc  Hunt  in  curia. 

Volenli  non  fit  ioiiiria  modo  non  inductiis  !it  fraude  ad 
lllam  voluntalem,    [Dns  cuslos  in  marg.] 

You  brusbe  j'o'sealf  so  longethslrnu  broshe  the  dust 
Into  TO'  owno  eyes.  L^  Keeper  to  Sient  Spurlingo  that 
excused  him  eeBirofaD  itnpulacon  butb  long*  &  emestlie. 

This  cawse  bath  been  carried  in  the  heigth  of  wilt  and 
atrengtb  of  nordes,  and  thcirfore  impar  congressus  for 
me  lu  awnsner,  in  regard  of  my  insuffieyencve  in  the 
"  case  bclweene  Francklvn  and  Oascnisne.  Qiiispinxit 
leonem,  speakinge  of  aforgeil  deede  beingein  the  pirtyes 
hande  that  conqilayned  of  the  forgeiye  iherof.  [M' 
Bacon  in  marg.] 

My  L<la  marks  of  an  yll  cause  be  manye.  Amongste 
the  rest  one  to  make  prirate  peticons.'and  worke  to 
pTcrt  Justice  by  private  Ires  and  mnenu  of  crcat  men. 
And  my  Lonl  Tseth  lo  say  I  am  a  blabber  and  p'sentlio 
will  discover  the  content  of  the  Irv  and  meanes  rsed  in 
tbe  behalf  of  the  ptye.    [Dns  Custos.] 


You  warble  in  yo'sealf  j  Tou  are  nowe  pnsbing  to  farr. 
[DnscDstos.l 

A  bodye  pulitiauc  bath  no  sonle  and  therfore  some  of 
Ihem  Tmagine  they  should  base  no  conscvence  [Dns 
CusteeJ  speakinge  oftheDeane  of  Rochester  D'coTlllan;;e. 
TantiE  ne  animis  cojleslibus  inc.  Speaking  of  clergic- 
mena  felrce  psecucon  of  a  cawse. 

M'  Attomev  spealiingc  of  the  malieioos  carriaj^  ofa 
cause  by  ecclesiaalicall  and  church  psons.  Clericnt  in 
oppido  tanqunm  piscis  in  arido. 

VI  fblicil.i[i»  est  poMC  qnantom  veils  sic  mannitudinii 
nullo  qnantum  possis.  /  in  a  demurrer  tnt'  Bowes  et 
diiamR— ■ -•'^.-•--- 


You  have  made  a  longe  enlrie  (o  a  liltle  hnirse  speak- 
in)ct  to  M'  Bi.i;i;in4  that  vseda  longe  p-ftee  lo  a  cause  of 
little  worth,  and  might  bavo  been*  sooner  anaweird. 
[Dns  Custos.] 

rosgibiliive  is  Ihemotherof  hope,  and  hope  the  nurfeof 
dQ>ire.    M''KiDge  at  Powlea  crosw  -25"  Uclobr. 

This  cawse  will  f,ire  like  a  froste,  for  yt  will  hare  a 
fowle  end.     Michis  44«'  et  46".     [  Dns  Custos.] 

Jtj  Lo'*  asked  what  did  the  jitye  give  him  that  ha 
should  vndertako  ail  their  charges,  all  that  he  had  my 
Lord  awnswered  they.  All  that  he  had  savd  my  Lord  yt 
may  be  that  iras  of  small  or  no  Talen.'',  Much  like  yv' 
awnswer  to  the  sayinge  of  Peeter  lo  Chrisle.  Wee  hana 
forsaken  all  and  followed  tbe.  I  knowe  nothing  S' 
Pcetcr  had  but  an  dwM  boate  and  a  broken  ni  tt.  So  may 
yo'  all  be,  U  Oclo;  44'>  et  4i». 

The  same  to  M"  Fnlliambe  havingo  ordered  that  an 
anruitye  of  Isnx"  p  nnnnm  eboald  be  p'*  to  hir  from  hir 
husband  ('bo  bcinge  severed  (Vom  him)  and  liTste  ap- 
poynted  the  Rolls  for  the  place  of  payment  at  hir  request, 
and  then  she  altertnge  that  niinde  requested  yt  micht  be 
paid  hir  at  Yorke,  w*  he  likewise  granieil;  Lastlie 
naming*  a  third  place  changn'ng*  hir  former  opiuiun  ;  mv 
Lord  sayd,  (seinge  hir  so  variable)  M"  Fulliambe  yt  will 
trumpe  a  good  Tavler  to  make  a  garment  for  the  mnone. 

This  was  spoken  two  vesrcs  befbre  the  former  about  14 
Oelo,Mii:his44'»et45°." 

[The  following  ai 

"Michis  IGOl.    I 


la  fjofi 


.  12.  LA  Kwp.   Kon  refert  de 


asyf-i; 


id  by 


IhonamcofSawkddw 

Singularitas  ta-tium  viiiat  testimonium— Idem: 
one  by  one  have  scene  or  hearde  apeake  such  a  thing  and 
not  S  or  more  at  one  tymc. 

20  Octobris.  M'  Attorney  Generall  dining  at  the  (1 
clearkes  otnce  with  vi :  sayed  :  Oleum  in  summo,  vinuni 
in  medio,  et  mel  in  imo  is  all  wayes  beat. 

20  Sove.  1604.  My  L'  Chancel^r  Inxedone  chnpplngo 
of  one  nn  other  before  they  had  finished  tber  speacties  out 
of  S'  Jerom  as  he  snyest  touching  speaeb.  1.  Silenili  pa- 
(Icnlia.  2.  Loquendi  opportnoitas.  3.  Tirlulis  funda- 
ment a. 

lllllarii.  1R04.  3.  It.  R.  S. 

Tyll  32  [I.  H.  no  man  might  devise  liis  Isnde  by 
will  Tulesse  it  weare  in  cerlayno  manners  Ibut  hnd 
snch  a  custom,  and  in  my  opioion  it  halh  breade  many 
.  .  .  ementa  that  a  dying  man  payned  and  distracted 
thcrby  iboold  in  articnio  morlis  wlun  his  soule  shood  be 
proui^ing  viaticum  for  that  neaver  recoring  iorncy 
shonid  bestow  his  thongbla  (haTing  no  learned  men  hj-) 
on  the  inherilanc*  of  his  lande. 

Idem.-'Cum  factor  rerum  priuaMct  semina  clemm    I  , , 
Ad  aalanie  Totum  snccestit  herba  nepotumi:  iV^ 


<<*  S.  VII.  3iS.  7,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Sly  L'  CtuDMUiira  owld  vena  od   the   eliiarev  por- 
chMiDK  Iindtt  tot  th«r  nevewa,  otberwj'B  tbcr  cturjnu. 

I'taeiti  3  iaeohilWo. 

April!  IB — Hy  L'  Keep  wved  gpeiluDg  of  Copley,  a 

At- 


pbi.'-itian  may  puree  humoTes  bat  not  moiea. 
S3  Apr.  Dnfu  Ingenii  at  ^rmiau  p«cc*tL   M' 


T  Itniyiiing 


tomy  gpeibiDg  of  pRsgnont 
Ihe  coDfcieiiee. 

Trio.  1605.  11°  Jaoij.  U'  Atlorny.  U&le  fBeUnles 
CBiraDt  lU  patentn,  epeakiug  of  soitera  to  nobtemeh  for 

A  Jeweller  being  demuided  of  «  Lady  wb«t  vertire  the 
(tMnea  she  had  bau|;lit  of  him  had,  answered,  graau 
Teitue  madam  that  caa  <lrave  one  haodred  twwnd  otft  of 
your  pane  to  mvne,  fui  ao  niach  ihe  bad  paved  fur 
them— (spoaken  of  the  SOOO"  band  vauloae  had  of  the 
complesae  of  Pemlrooke  for  200  perle  to  pay  HOO  for 
theni.)    L.  Chancier. 

Miehia,  IfiOS,  16  No;  fr.  Bacon. 

The  nature  of  Jiuti^  diitributiae  ia  to  eonaider  not 
only  de  toto  bnt  do  tanto,  and  not  to  pronoance  aentctice 
by  ounces  and  draiaca  but  by  grainca. 

The  ciutomG  and  maaner  for  Uarche  Lorda  ii  to  hBTg 
TppMi  en'y  altetacOn  by  deatlie,  but  not  by  purchase 
■lienacon,  of  the  Ten  nth  a  eertane  kind  of  c     '     '-'' 


tybDtion 


uttyi 
n-  benevolence  (bntyeCofdutie)  wbicbe  they  call  Jficyt. 
The  Eaile  of  rembroke  pretendoth  the  like  on'  tht 
Boroucbe  of  Carieion,  of  whom  be  daiineth  a  contribu- 
tion of  4"  {(  aau*  towaida  the  paimu  of  fire  hundred 
HiBikes  (vhich  be  Lis  whole  micii)  to  be  paid  in  fire 
rearea.  Tbia  eantewaa  handled  in  the  Chan:  eonita 
htton  the  M' of  the  Rolei  Jostica  Warb.itun  and  Do' 
Uonle  15  Ho.  IGDj  anil  two  fonner  decrees  were  ahewod 
in  the  Corte  by  the  Lo:  of  Pembr:  coonBelL 

iThe  two  last  entries  are  in  the  first  hand.] 
rio.  4, 160(1,  Julij  3. 

Ignoruilia  Jndicis  :  miseria  inoeenlla, 
Uitiua  miaseranli:  mellos  peretnr. 
The  L'  Cooke,  L*  Cheef  Jualice  aaaiating  io  Chancery. 
S'  July,  LoO  Cooke  being  Attor. 
Infonning  against  the  L'l  of  KorCh    .    .    .    the  atarr 
Chamber  2  July,  1606.     He  uyed   suspictoncs   lerea, 
might  causa  eiaminBlion,  prohabiles.  incarcerBtion,  and 
TIMentn  et  Tehementea  condemnatiDn, 
Michis,  5  Jacobi,  1607. 
Oetobr  7.  The  L'  Cbancelloni  aaved  to 
Tcary  earn 
gaule  in  y 

M"  BabinglOTi,  M«  Ashe,  and  with  them  8  or  more 
gentlewomen  bring  in  Ihe  Coort ;  my  L'  Chancel,  sayd 
what  make  all  ahees..  .more  flU  Co  be  al  aatagplay  heere 
is  a  Gynoeeum  :  then  came  ould  mother  atepheua  with  hei 
doake'and  mufled  ;  over  the  coort  to  them.  What  can  we 
bait  lerne  fay  .  .  heer. 

Trinity  Tenne,  6,  1608.    Tiimas  dies  Termini. 

Usy  27.  The  L'  Chaocellor  sayed :  dislyking  the 
cterRya  leasee  miking  and  to  ther  children  and  of  dl- 
minisUDg  the  renenuei  of  Ihe  churches  i  this  is  ablative 
diuinily,  for  here  ia  taking  away  of  ther  Uvingn  bat  in 
fgnner  tymea  when  Ibeire  endowments  weare  to  the 
eharch  :  that  tyme  ther  divinity  was  la  the  dative  case, 

[Tbe  last  entry.] 

On  a  blank  page : 

HaiT  aeoiioge  Robb  wrongfnllye  for  the  wch  Robert 
pvyethe  for  biie  after  this  man'.,  and  wiahethe  bim  lelr 
not  better  end  jf  ever  adid  deserve  yt. 
1  flkrvently  beseeebe 
B  God  of  might 


that  all  the  plague  ofhcvcn  i  erlhe 


norr  fynd  noe  frend  in  her  distrajse 
that  may  her  woe  reltossc.' 

G.  A.  CABTffBW, 


CHABBON  D£  TEERE:  A  LIEGE  LEGEND. 

In  the  year  1108  »  ^i  blacltsmitli  in  the  dij 
of  Liege  was  toiling  in  an  objure  street  where 
his  wretched  little  forge  wm  estnbliahed.  He 
wu  working  awsj  aa  hard  as  he  could,  and  hie 
face  was  bedewed  with  perspiration. 

A  stranger  who  was  pa«BinK  down  the  atreet, 
obserring  the  cameBt  manner  with  which  the  hardy 
amitb  wa«  labouring,  stopped  to  look  at  bim. 

Thia  stranger  was  a  Ter;  venemble  old  man, 
with  htXr  and  beard  as  white  as  snow;  and  he 
WHS  arrayed  in  gnnnente  that  were  ue  same 
colour  as  his  bcud  and  hair.  (Canitie  el  barbd 
witerandiu,  albd  vciU  iadutui,  Gillas  d'Orval,  t,  iL- 
191.) 

"  That  is  a  weariaome  trade  jon  have  devoted 
yourself  to,"  sud  the  stranger.    "  Are  ;ou  con- 


Siroflta  it  yields  yon 
'Otlta  do  jou  think  I 
e  blacksmith,  as  he  wiped  hia  fore- 


I  can  derive  from 


What  profits  do  you  t 

]  the  blacksmith,  as  he  wiped 
head.  "  Nearly  everything  I  j[ain  by  my  labour 
1  am  obliged  to  expend  in  buying  this  miserable 
ehwbon,  which  coels  me  80  dear. 

"Aye,  aye  1"  said  the  stranger,  "I  see  thatth* 
eharixm  you  use  is  made  of  wood,  and  that  it 
must  coat  a  good  deal  by  the  time  it  b  conveyed 
to  you  from  the  adjoining  forests." 

"I  assure  you,"  observed  the  blacksmith,  "that 
the  utmost  I  csn  posfdbly  gain  is  barely  suffident 
to  buy  food  for  myself  and  my  family," 

"But,''  replied  the  old  man,  "if  you  could  hare 
a  Epedes  of  charbon  which  would  cost  you  nothiDg 
more  than  the  trouble  of  digging  a  little  depth 
into  tbe  earth  for  it,  where  it  lies  hidden,_  and 
when  you  could  have  as  much  of  it  as  you  wished 
for,  would  you  be  very  happy  P  " 

"  Would'  I  be  very  happy  ?  All ! "  agbed  th«r 
blacksmith,  as  he  gazed  at  the  stranger,  and  en- 
deavoured to  make  a  gueas  at  the  meaning  of  the- 
words  addressed  to  him. 

"  Well,  then,"  continued  the  venerable  slranger, 
"  listennowattentivelT  towhat  lam  saying.  You 
know  the  Mont-des- Moines  that  lies  cloee  bjtMs 
place,  as  you  must  have  often  passed  by  it.  Have 
you  never  remarked,  if  yon  did  so,  a  sort  of  black 
earth  that  ia  in  some  places  mixed  up  with  the 
ordinary  soil  P  Go  there;  take  that  black  earth, 
pat  it  in  the  fire,  and,  take  my  word  for  it,  you 
will  never  agun  have  to  buy  an  ounce  of  eharbim 
of  wood." 

The  blacksmith  stared  with  tmaiemeot,  and  at 
first  thought  the  oM  slranger  wais  liilliiw  vitii  ^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[i-^s.  vn.  ja-v.  7,'7i. 


him ;  but  that  thought  raniahed  as  he  looked  at  the 
Irindly  face  of  the  good  old  man,  bidding  him 
"  good  b;e  "  as  he  disappeared.  The  smith's  con- 
fidence returned ;  he  put  on  hia  coat  at  once  (for 
the  honest  men  of.  Liege  never  take  long  to  de- 
liberate on  anything),  aad  the  game  instant  he 
tan  off  to  the  Uont-dea- Moines.  Upon  examining 
the  soil,  he  there  perceived  what  he  had  before 
Derer  paid  anj  attention  to,  that  there  were 
tracks,  and  what  appeared  to  be  xeins  of  earth 
that  was  black  and  friable.  He  filled  his  apron 
with  this  earth,  and  returned  home  satisfied.  His 
confidence  in  the  words  of  the  venerable  stranger 
was  fullj  realised;  for  scarcely  had  he  cast  a 
handful  of  hia  black  earth  intJi  the  brasier  than 
it  began  to  bum  up  and  sparkle  brilliantly. 

He  had  made  a  n'and  discorery  I  He  had  found 
out  coal  I    He  had  hit  up<in  the  chorbon  de  tern '.  ! 

Transported  with  delight,  he  ran  to  tell  his 
neighbours  of  what  had  occurred  to  him.  The 
neighbours  in  their  turn,  being  fullj  convinced  of 
the  Talue  of  the  discovery,  repaired  to  Mont-des- 
Moinea — which  they  also  called'  Moitt-FubUc, 
because  it  had  been  waste  commoi^-luid,  and  every 
one  that  liked  had  a  right  to  repair  to  it — and 
there,  with  the  hlack  earth,  they  perceived  stones 
of  the  same  colour,  which  were  found  to  make 
excellent  fuel. 

It  may  easily  be  guessed  what  a  reputation  the 
discovery  of  this  vsluahle  mine  won  for  the  poor 
blacksmith  in  hia  natal  city.  His  name  was 
HotMoz,  and  from  bis  name  was  afterwards  called 
that  species  of  coal  that  is  known  as  hoatUe  (pit- 
eoal). 

The  extraction  of  pit-cnal  {hoailk)  became,  in 
course  of  time,  the  aourceof  great  riches  to  Uege; 
but  then  as  t«  the  good  old  man  who  had  re- 
vealed  the  source  of  those  riches,  Houlloi  and 
bis  companions  in  vain  sought  after  him  from  a 
desire  to  testify  their  gratitude)  but  no  one  wm 
ever  able  to  gain    any  intelligence   respecting 

~VVho  then  was  this  old  manP  From  whence 
came  he  F  How  was  be  master  of  a  lecret  which 
was  concealed  from  the  inhabitants  of  the  country  P 
"WBhaTe"(sayaM.E.DBConde,inhi9JfoBKtnens 
H  Snuveniri  de  ia  vilie  de  Liege,  c.  iv.,  from  which 
this  legend  is  translaled)  "on  this  subject  con- 
sulted ancient  aut'iois.  The  oldest  work  refer- 
ring to  it  is  an  antique  manuscript,  vety  aadly 
deteriorated.  This  manusciipt,  having  recounl^d 
in  detail  the  preceding  history,  adds :  "  That  there 
cannot  be  any  doubt  as  to  the  mysterious  per* 
aonage  introduced  into  it,  and  thu,  beyond  the 
slightest  question,  he  was  an  any  .  , ."  The  last 
letters  have  been  obliterated  by  envious  time. 
Could  the  manuscript  have  intended  to  affirm 
that  the  author  of  the  discovery  was  an  nn^l 
(angelus)  ?  or,  might  it  not  have  been  an  Anffli- 
c«n— an  Englishmaa  {Anglui)?   for  the  use  of 


coal   (eharhon  de  terrc)   was  well  known  in  the 
twelfth  century  in  England. 

W.  B.  Mao  Cabk, 
UaaconCour-de-Bietigne,  CSMa  du  :Har<],  Franc*. 


DR.  AEDUTBXOT, 

That  this  celebrated  wit  and  eminent  phy- 
sician, upon  whom  the  mantle  of  the  eq^uaUy 
clever  and  skilful  Dr.  i'itc.iim  bad  fallen,  was  > 
cadet  of  the  noble  family  of  Arbutlmot,  is,  we 
believe,  undoubted,  although  there  is  some  diffi- 
culty in  putting  together  the  necessary  links  of 
his  pedigree.  His  father  was  the  episcopal  clergy- 
man  of  Arbuthnot,  where  hia  sou  is  asserted  to 
have  been  born  shortly  after  the  Reitoratiou. 

In  the  Library  of  the  Faculty  of  'Advocates 
there  is  a  MS.  which  ia  thus  titled:  "A  Con- 
tinuation of  the  Genealogie  of  the  noble  Family 
of  Arbuthnot,  by  Mr.  Alexander  Arbuthnot,  some- 
time Minister  at  the  Kirk  of  Arbutbnott."  This 
person  was  the  father  of  Dr.  John  Arbuthnot, 
who,  not  choosing  to  adopt  the  Presbyterian  sys- 
tem of  worship,  preferred  lelinquishins  his  church 
and  retiring  to  an  estate,  represented  by  Cham- 
bers '  to  have  been-  but  a  *'  small "  one,  which 
he  bad  inherited,  and  where,  it  may  be  reasonably 


concluding  portion  of  an  account  of  the  Arbuth- 
not family  which  had  never  been  printed,  but 
which  inay  be  amongst  the  muniments  of  the . 
Viscount  of  Arbuthnot.  Its  existence  was  un- 
known to  Dr.  Irving,  who  has  given  a  sketch 
of  the  life  of  the  alleged  writer  in  his  lAvet  of 
Scotith  Poett,  and  to  Dr.  Robert  Chambers,  whose 
brief  notice  of  Principal  Arbuthnot,  the  author,  is 
derived  from  Irvine  and  M'Crie. 

On  the  back  of  tbe  title  of  the  CcmtiiiuAtiou  is 
the  following  memorandum ; — 

"  For  connecting  Principal  Arbothnott'a  latin  Gene- 
alogy wilh  the  following  conlin nation,  'tia  to  be  noliced 
IhslJsmeSiWliDKucceeded  Robert  the  second  .miiriedJenn 
Stosrt,  A  thole's  danghtfr,  by  tchom  lie  hstl  Vkb  wns  and 
one  daughter.  His  eldest  ann  ws9  fioberl  (he  third  ;  [ho 
■econd,  cslkd  David,  Parson  of  Mammure,  was  killed  at 
Pinkie.  Hi>  danghter's  name  was  l«n>bel,  nho  <ria  mar- 
ried first  to  Ochtorlon;  nf  KelLy,  and  afterwards  to 
Meari  ofPanmnre.  This  Jamea  gotthe  holding  of  ward, 
changed  to  blench.  He  was  removed  bv  immalure  dealb, 
in  the  Sower  of  his  Bge,  in  the  year  1S21,  and  to  him 
anccMded  Robert  his  son.  the  third  of  that  came,  SO 
ealled  after  his  grandfather." 


re^tted,  as  the  author  waa  a  man  of  admitted 
ability,  and  an  elegant  writer  in  Latin,  botii  of 
prose  and  verse.    He  died  "at  Aberdeen  c     '' 


*  IAvaofEmiiie»i}ScQldiwm,' 


WM.)t)«^Ic 


4*  S.  VII.  Jas.  T, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


tenth  of  October,  1583,  before  he  tad  completed 
the  a^  of  toitj-&r«."  A  favouiable  picture  of 
him  is  given  bj  Archbishop  Spottiswood,  who 

lemarkB : — 

■■  He  WW  greatlv  loved  of  all  men,  hated  of  none,  > 
Id  nich  ucoant  Ibr  liia  moderation  irith  the  chief  a 
of  Ihcae  paita,  that  iritbant  hia  advice  they  could 
DOthiag;  whicli  put  him  in  a  great  fashrie  whereof  he  i 
oft  complain.    Pleasant  »nd  jocund  in  conversation,  a 
In  all  gcionn  oxpsrt,  a  good  poet,  mathematician,  philo- 
aopfair,  theotogiiui,  lawyer,  and  in  mcdioliie  ekiJflil ;  no 
M  OB  ev«ryanb}ect  hooonld  proinpll;  diicourw,  aod  to 
good  pnrpoM." 

It  is  believed  that  the  PtiDcipal  waa  the  graad- 
father  of  Alexander,  the  clergyman  of  Arbuthnot, 
ud  thus  great-gTaodrathet  la  the  friend  of  Swift 
and  Pope.    The  conjecture  may  be  erroneous,  but 


An  ISEDITBD  Eleot  by  Oliteb  Goldsihth. 
Struggling  the  other  dej  through  a  quantity  of 
old  papers,  I  lighted  on  poor  Qoldy's  panegyric  of 
hie  warm-hearted  patron,  the  amiahle  and  intel- 
ligent Quaker,  Joseph  Feon  Sleigh  (Foote's 
«  Doctor  Sligo"),  "  the  schoolfellow  of  Burke  at 
Ballitore,  the  first  friend  of  Barry  the  painter,  who 
died  prematurely  in  1771,  an  eminent  physician 
at  Cork."     (Prior's  loft  of  GotftmiU,  i.  148-9.) 

The  doctor,  who  was  of  Derbyshire  descent,  died 
DO  ThuMday,  May  10, 1770,  aged  thirty-seven  (a 
life  how  short  for  bis  sorrowing  ftieods !},  leaving 
behind  him  an  idiotic  sister  and  a  large  fortune — 
the  latter  (as  too  many|hnow  to  their  bitter  ooat)  a 
DSTer-ending  gnbjeet  of  litigation ;  but  to  which, 
if  every  one  bad  hia  due,  we  believe  a  certain 
leamed  serjaant  bos,  or  ought  to  have,  a  prior 

"It  werefn  »ain  to  expatiate  on  virtues  univsnslly 
known,  or  emblaion  that  merit  which  every  heart  eon- 
tbaa;  were  even  Fancy  to  be  Indnlged,  it  lould  not 
osap^eralB  the  reality ;  hot  Fancy  can  hera  And  no 
breast  (nffidently  vacant  for  Ita  adraiulon— on  tha  hearts 
of  all  who  knew  him  ;  on  the  wretiA  whom  he  relieved— 
oftbe  Panmtwhom  he  Bolaeedi  of  the  f  Hend  whom  bo 
delighted:— 

"Undoabied  griefl  no  grief  excessive  call, 
Nor  atop  the  tean  whii:Ii  now  in  torrents  fhll. 
Dear  Sleigb's  no  more !  the  man  whom  all  admired, 
The  man  whoK  breast  each  social  virtae  Bred, 
Is  now  no  more !    In  Doalh'a  cold  slerp  he  lies  ; 
A  caase  loSieient  fur  onr  ftiendl.v  slKhi. 
Conld  Leamine,  Goodneai.  ChariU"  ineare, 
Coold  Worth  and  (Janios,  Wit  and  Truth  aecure 
Oar  darliiy;  SUich— then  Love  sincere  might  save 
The  best  of  men  from  an  antlmely  grave ! 
Cease  mv  ssd  heart,  nor  Iniure  by  joar  lays 
The  worthy  man  yon  fainllv  strive  to  praise ! 
View  every  face— behold  the  rich  and  pooI^— 
With  dowQcaat  eyes  fegret  that  Sleigh's  no  more ! 
"  OuvEB  noLDBHrm, 

"RoBCommon,  Ireland." 

MooBLABD  Lad. 


D1SCRSPAITCTB8  IN  Dates. — Amongst  ancient 
charters  and  indentures  such  errors  are  by  no 
means  uncommon,  and  might  lead  an  inexperi- 
enced nrchKologist  to  pronounce  the  documents 
to  which  they  occur  spurious,  whereas  these  very 
errors  sometimes  nflbrdeven  corroborative  evidence 
of  authenticity.  A  note  on  this  subject  would, 
I  believe,  be  valued  by  the'  public  The  author 
of  a  paper  on  "  Ancaent  Sbemf  Seals,"  published 
a  few  years  ago  in  the  Herald  and  Gmaiuogitt,  has 
had  a  very  extensire'ezperience  in  this,  branch  of 
archieology,  and  might  be  induced  on  seeing  this 
reference  to  bis  qualificatiotts  to  contribute  a 
reply.  There  are  probably  many  other  arcbieolo- 
gists  equally  qualified  to  give  an  opinion  (sup- 
ported by  evidence)  on  this  subject,  out  as  I  do 
not  happen  to  know  them  as  thus  spemally 
qualified,  I  have  alluded  to  him  whom  I  do  know 
as  having  directed  his  attention  to  the  gneetion. 

a 

The  late  Sib  SiiruEL  O'Mallet,  Bart.— In 
a  cutting  from  the  Mayo  Coastitulum  newspaper 
published  in  August,  1864, 1  find  it  stated  that 
this  centleman,  who  died  on  the  17th  of  that 
month,  had  begn  for  the  long  period  of  mxtg-three 

Sara  a  magistrate  and  grand  juror  of  the  eo. 
ayo,  and  that  during  the  whole  of  that  period 
no  oot  of  his  as  a  magiBtrate  ever  met  the  censure 
of  tha  superior  tribunals  or  the  government  of  the 
country.  This  it,  I  think,  worth  putting  on 
record  in  the  pages  of  "N.  &  Q."  Y.  S.  M. 

Shropshieb  SAYiHoa— An  old  lady,  who  waa 
the  daughter  of  a  Salopian  farmer,  and  who  died 
not  long  since  at  the  age  of  seventy-eight,  waa 
accustomed  to  make  use  of  the  following  savings, 
which  had  been  current  in  her  early  days  in  her 
native  county.  Some  of  them  are  curious,  and 
may  be  found  interesting : — 

''Choke  chicken,  more  hatching."  A  variation 
of  the  proverb,  that  "  As  good  fish  remain  in  the 
"""  as  ever  came  out  of  it. 

Noble  as  the  race  of  Shenkia  and  line  of 
Harry  Tudor." 

"  He  smiles  like  a  basket  of  chips  " ;  i.  e.  of 
habit  and  unconsciously. 

"Useful  as  a  shin  of  beef,  which  has  a  bigbwie 
for  the  big  dog,  a  little  bone  for  the  little  dog, 
and  a  sinew  for  the  eat." 

It's  all  on  one  side  like  Bridgnorth  election." 
Ahem  I  aa  Dick  Smith  said  when  he  swal- 
lowed  the   disbclont,"   signifying  that   troubles 
should  be  borne  with  fortitude. 

"  All  friends  round  the  wrekin." 

Wji.  Underhill. 

'EIKHN  BAZiAiKH'. — Ott  the  fly-leaf  of  a  well- 
bound  and  ill-thumbed  copy  in  my  possession  of 
the  third  edition  oi  A  Vmdicatiim  g  K.  Charlei  ^^ 
the  Martyr  (Loudon:  piinled  for  E.  Wilkin, at  the 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4«*S.TI1.  Jam.I.TI. 


Ein^s  Head  in  St,  Paul's  Church  Yard,  1711), 
proTiQg  that  His  Majeatj  wu  the  author  of  this 
&ercelj-coiit«8ted  work,  are  these  MS.  notes, 
with  the  autographs  of  theit  respoclire  attos- 
tow: — 

"  WiDchibu,  Aug.  y  13,  1732. 
"I  doe  ■flrm  thit  in  the  year  1688,  M"  HoEnpeesoD 
(wife  to  Tbomu  Mompeuon,  Esq.  ofBrnbam,  in  Somer- 


bohijceruln  knovledge  tba'lilKnNBAZIAIKH' waioU 
compoi'd  and  written  bv  KinfcCharlea  j'  Brat. 

"AKbongblD  the  fullowiog  Book  the  King's  Book  la 
thoronghly  Vtodicated,  snd  proved  to  be  of  hia  MajcetieH 
Compoaing,  I  wu  nilUng  to  add  this  Circumituice  from 
H"  MompesiOD,  with  Hhom  and  her  Unsband  mj  Wift 
■cd  I  at  that  time  ■ojoura'd.  "  Wutchclsea. 

"Tbe  Author  of  the  rellowing  Tracts  iru  the  R>  Rev- 
erend H'  WagataSiB,  vtbo  oaa  caiueerat«d  a  Biihop  by 
tbe  Rt.  Eeyereod  the  Deprived  Bpa.  of  Norwich,  £17  & 
PeterbtUEh,  &  the  R<  Rev'd  George  Bickeo,  Suffrenn 
Biabop  oT  Thetford.  Tbe  Rt.  Honorable  Heniy  Earl  of 
Clarendon  being  »  Witness  thereto. 

"  Chaplain  to  I.''  Winchebek." 
JoHir  Slsiqil 
Thombridg^  BakewelL 

ATBBjteE  OF  HmtAR  Litb. — I. am  rector  of  a 
■couatr;  pariah,  the  populatiou  of  which,  at  the 
last  census,  was  404,  the  males  and  females  being 
exactly  equal  in  number.  In  the  ten  succeeding 
years  there  have  been  sixtj-eight  deaths,  of  which 
thirty-six  have  been  those  of  fsmeJes.  The 
general  aversge  of  age  has  been  fortj-nine  years; 
the  ayerage  of  males  a  fraction  over  forty-nine 
years;  that  of  the  females,  therefore,  a  firaction 
under  that  age.  Ten  of  the  entire  number  have 
lived  to  over  eighty  years,  of  whom  eight  were 
females,  one  of  these  latter  being  ninety-two 
when  uie  died.  I  do  not  know  how  these  num- 
"bera  will  bear  compirison  with  those  of  other 
parishes,  but  one  thingstrikes  me  in  looking  them 
over — while  the  average  length  of  life  is  a  little 
in  favour  of  the  males,  the  females  show  a  larger 
number  attaining  to  extreme  old  age. 

W.  M.  H.  C. 
Fberch  War  Soires.— In  7R«  SUmdard  of 
Sec.  20  is  "  The  Christmas  of  a  German  Soldier." 
Friti,  in  a  letter  to  Gretcheo,  describes  "  the 
eituadon  "  and  his  hopes,  and  gives  snatches  of  a 
song  which  he  hears  the  French  singing  on  the 
opposite  bank  of  the  Mame : — 

"These  vordi  the?  put  into  King  Wtlliam'a  moatb  :— 
"■  Qui  soatiendrale  choc  dee  miens?    De  roe  valiaes 
Qui  aondera  la  nrorondeur? 
Ton  Tann,  liiroa  pillard,  Verder,  briUenr  d'^lisea, 
£t  Treacou,  geadaime  Iroiidciir, 

X  Cea  Francs,  GU  de  Baal,  n'ont-ila  paa  Vinipudence 
De  combattre  en  pleine  clartd 
Houa,  Seignenr,  que  to  fia  serpents  par  la  pnidcnce 
Et  lonpa  par  ia  tinKiti  ? 


>■  Ta  jDstioe,  o  Sdgnear,  eat  comme  1 
Lenle,  mala  iQre  d'aniver. 
La  mieiinea  prisaoo  tempa;  ma  ra 
Uit  cinqaante  ana  k  la  conv«r. 


"Oni,  depals  I£na,  ie  n'ai  pn  euu  sotiffrance 


"  Biimarek  a  dea  eonaeils  loyaoz  but  tontea  choaes ; 
11  me  sooffla  ravis  divla 
D'envover  mes  enfiuits,cliiena  conchanta,  dooz  etroieii 
Hendier  an  paja  do  vin. 

"  Comment  se  d^Aer  de  oea  soQples  carrarea  ? 
Tont  foTer  lear  Tut  ladnigenl,' 
Mea  ch^niblaa  out  pris  rempreinta  dei  aemires  t 

'A  moi  la  eav«^  k  moi  rai^ient." 
I  cannot  learn  more  about  the  song,  but  I  think 
if  the  whole  can  be  found  it  is  qiute  as  worthy  of 
preservation  in  "  N.  &  Q."  as  any  war  song  yet 
inserted.  tt  n  ^ 

U.  U.  Qob. 


H.ac. 


MoBT  Cmns  Titsnel.  — The  following,  from 

•     "  ■■    "      ofDec.  2r ■  ■'      —   - 

\.  &  Q."  :- 

«  Bardoniebe,  Dec.  !S,  4.15  P,u. 

"  The  Isat  diaphraam  baa  jost  been  bored  exactly  in 
the  middle  oT  the  Hont  Cenis  Tannel,  amid  repeated 
shoats  ftom  one  aide  to  tbe  other  of 'Long  live  Itiljl' 

"  Tbe  greatest  engineering  work  of  tbe  great  ceatitiy 
of  engineering  has  at  last  been  accomplished.  The  Mont 
Cenis  Tannel  is  perhaps  a  mora  wonderful  trinmph  of 
genioa  and  penevBranco  than  the  Atlantic  Telegraph  or 
tbe  Snei  CanaL  It*  length  is  seven  milea  and  three- 
fiftita,  it  is  twenty-aix  feet  and  ■  qnarter  in  width,  acd  nine- 
teen fKt  eight  JDches  in  beIgh^  and  wilt  carry  a  donble 
line  of  rails  trom  France,  under  (be  Alp^  to  Italy.  The 
tunnel,  which  is  of  comae  nnflniahed  as  yet,  baa  been  cut 
by  atmoapheric  machineiy  through  tbe  solid  rock,  schist, 
limestone,  and  qnartz,  tbe  air  which  moved  the  chisels 
cseaplDg  from  i(a  compression  to  anpply  the  lungs  of.  the 
workmen.  The  work  baa  Iwen  filWen  years  in  prognaa, 
without  reckoning  the  time  apent  in  preliminary  Invea- 
tigationa  ;  it  has  been  carried  on  contlauonaly  from  18S1 
m  now.  Tbe  railway  up  the  Sion  valley  will  now, 
before  long,  carry  ila  paisengera  straight  through  from 
Foumeaai  to  Bardontche,  and  it  will  be  possible  to  go 
from  Paris  to  Milan  without  climbing  an  Alpine  pass,  or 
even  changing  tbe  railway  carriaEe.  So  far  as  railway 
transit  is  oonceraed,  there  are  therEfoie  no  more  Aips. 
The  grest  mountain  choin  has  been  Anally  removed. 
This  immense  work  has  Ijeen  carried  out  under  vast  diffl- 
cnltlea.  There  could  be  no  ahafls  as  in  the  short  tunnels 
wblcb  pierce  onr  tittle  English  hills,  and  ail  ibe  dibrit 
had  to  be  carried  back  to  the  entrance.  It  waa  begun  at 
both  ends,  and  the  workmen  who  thug  etarted  seven 
milea  apart,  with  a  mountain  chain  between  them,  have 
met  as  aeenrately  as  though  there  had  been  but  a  hill  to 
pierce.     As  a  trinmph  of  engineering  afcill,  we  must 


a  by  Google 


of  ita  pabUcatioD,  Ac.  The  illiutnUona  (probaUy 
eut  in  the  sixteenth  centur;)  ue  Sj  inches  by 
H  inches,  set  in  a  framework  having  figures  at 
tbe  Bide  with  deTices  and  such  like  mt  top  and 
bottooL  Under  the  illustration  are  five  or  ax 
lines  in  Gennim  eiplanatory  of  the  aubjeet,  -while 
■bore  it  are  the  referencea  to  the  book  and  chap- 
ter. Probably  the  framework  may  have  served 
foe  lome  other  religioos  publication ;    there  are 


Cdbhish  spoken  in  Detonshire. — Cnn  joa 
tell  me  where  to  find  a  Btatement  that  I  have 
read  somewhere,  that  the  Carniah,  or  at  least  a 
British,  dialect  was  sdll  spoken  in  Devonahire 
after  the  Norman  conquest,  and  whether  there  ia 
any  authority  for  it  P  There  ia  reneen  to  beUeve 
that  in  Aaser'a  time  it  was  used  in  Somersetabire 
also;  for  he  gives  us  the  British  name  of  the 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'1'S.VII.  Jas.T.TI. 


forest  called  Sfllwood.  Thia  was  about  the  end 
of  the  ninth  century.  B.  C.  A.  P. 

Thb  DRAMJf. — What  is  the  earliest  delioea- 
tiOD  of  the  dragon,  ftnd  had  it  two  or  four  lees  P 

EiSTERS  SiOBT. — At  the  end  of  the  thirtj[- 

eighth  chapter  of  Great  Expectations  alluaion  is 

made  to  the  Eastern  story  of  a  heavy  slab  that 

was  to  foil  on  a  bed  of  state.  Where  is  the  story  P 

Don. 

Sm  Ohakles  Eoebton,  Kniqht.  —  Wanted, 
infoTDiBUon  on  this  ''  knight "  (probably  a  foreign 
honour),  who  tras  living  in  1651.  Henry  Yaughan, 
the  Silurist,  dedicated  two  volumes  to  hioi.  I 
have  searched  in  vain  in  many  quartets,  and 
others  for  me,  with  equal  unsuccesa.  Required 
immediitiely,  and  therefore  answers  ^11  please  be 
addreeeed  to  Rbt.  A.  B.  Obosart,  St  Qeorge's, 
Biackbum,  Lancashire. 

EanivALESTT  FoitEioN  Titles. — By  what  court 
can  foreign  titles  ueed  in  England  be  tested  F  So 
far  as  I  can  undorstend,  an  English  armiger  ranks 
-with  a  foreign  noble,  while  English  peers  are  de 
facto  more  than  a  match  for  mere  titular  princes, 
Those  claims  caunot  be  referred  to  a  committee 
of  privileges,  and  who  are  therefore  only  to  be 
taken  for  whet  they  may  be  worth  in  each  one's 
Opinion.  It  does  seem  wrong,  however,  that  le^ 
applied  to  our  own  nobles  and  gentry  should  be 
waived  in  the  case  of  strangers.  At  this  rate 
many  noblemen  and  untitled  gentry  have  equal 

Getensiona  to  royal  deecentfrom  Saxon  and  Welsh 
nga  and  princes,  bnt  how  absurd  were  Lord 
Howden  to  style  himself  U.H.H.  Prince  Caradoc. 
T— K. 

"Lr    FAaCETR   DTT   JoTTtt   BT   BE    tA    NbIT." 

I  have  a  very  badly  printed  and  faulty  copy  of 
this  little  booic.  Will  soma  one  oblige  me  with 
the  words  pveii  below  P  The  lines  count  from 
the  top  of  the  page. 

Page  16.  Two  fii-st  wnMs  oflines  4.  B,  14,  IT,  18. 

Psge  29.  The  whole  of  lines  S3,  2-1. 

Page  47.  Tiro  flrat  irorda  of  lines  21-24  inclueive. 

Page  70.  Two  last  words  of  iinu  23,  24. 

Pago  Bi  The  wbulo  of  line  2. 

L.X. 

LzTTBB  OP  Galileo. — In  a  book,  called  The 
Private  Life  of  Oiiliho,  published  by  MacmiUan 
and  Co.,  1B70,  the  author's  name  not  attached, 
there  is  given  in  n  note  (p.  74)  a  Terr  romnrkablo 
letter  of  Oalileo  to  Father  Benedetto  Csatelli,  Pro- 
fessor of  Slathetnatics  at  Pisa,  1013,  on  the  inter- 
pretation of  Scripture.  The  reference  not  being 
given,  I  should  feel  greatly  obliged  to  any  of  yonr 
readers  if  they  could  give  me  the  authority,  and 
usnre  me  of  the  authentidty  of  the  letter. 

M.  M. 


Heraldic.  —  1.  Supposing  a  woman,  not  on 
heiress^  to  morrv  and  to  become  a  widow,  and  then 
to  marry  agam,  what  arms  should  her  steond 
husband  impale  P  Those  of  her  father,  or  those 
of  her  first  husband  P 

S.  If  a  man  who,  though  in  the  position  of  a 
gentleman,  is  not  legally  entitled  to  any  armorial 
bearings  should  marry  an  heiress,  can  the  issue  of  i 

this  marriage  bear  the  mother'*  anna  in  any  way —  . 

I.  a,  nrnply,  or  with  some  difference  P 

W.M.H.  C.  ! 

Hbrbert  of  Muckecss. — Mr,  Henry  Arthur 
Herbert  of  Muckruss  married  on  OcL  28, 1781,    , 
Eliiabeth,  second  daughter  of  Viscount  Sackville. 
Did  this  ladv,  who  was  born  July  4, 1762,  pre-  i 

decease  her  husband  P     What  are  the  dates  of 
Iheir  respective  deaths  ?  H.  0.  M. 

HoBBEI  Keck.— Can  any  of  your  readers  in- 
form me  whether  there  ia  any  portrait  in  exist- 
ence of  Mr.  Robert  Keck,  who  purchased  the 
portrait  of  Shakespeare  (afterwards  known  as  the 
Chandoa  portrwt)  of  Mrs.  Bfury  the  actress  P  I 
believe  I  haTe  a  portrait  of  this  gentlemwi,  which 
came  from  Minchenden  House,  Soutbgate,  but 
cannot  identify  it  for  certain  unless  by  comparison 
with  an  undisputed  picture  of  Mr.  Keck. 

F.  L.  COLVILB. 
Leek-Wotton,  Warwick. 

Laird.— Can  a  "  porlioner"  of  land  be  pro- 
perly styled  "  Laird,"  as  1  see  Mr.  Rogers,  in  his 
accoimt  of  the  Roger  family,  portionert  of  Coupar 
Grange  (4'*  S.  vi.  482),  treats  the  designations  as 
synonymous  P  The  poeseasion  of  an  entire  barony 
in  fee-simple  appears  to  me  to  be  necesairy  to 
constitute  a  landed  proprietor  a  laird.  If  every 
"  portioner,"  i.  e.  every  proprietor  of  one  or  more 
portioni  of  a  parish  or  barony,  be  a  laird, that  title 
has  lost  its  meaning — laird  or  lord  =  baron,  one 
who,  originally  at  least,  held  a  barony  directly 
from  the  crown.  C.  S.  K. 

St.  Peter's  Square,  Ilamnictsmltb,  W, 

Pbdisbeb  op  Mortiues.  —  Sir  Edmund  de 
Mortimer,  of  Wigmore,  mortally  wounded  at  the 
battle  of  Bullth,  1303,  married  Margaret,  daugh- 
ter of  Sir  William  de  Fenolles,  and  a  kinswoman 
of  Queen  Eleanor.  How  was  this  Minaret 
related  to  the  good  queen  P  W.  M.  HT  C. 

PooL-s,  OR  MotTTHs  OF  Stbkajib.— The  cieeka 
or  mouths  of  streams  opening  into  the  Mersey,  at 
least  as  high  as  the  tide  flows,  are  desia^Ukted 
"  Pools,"  and  I  shall  be  glad  to  know  wnether 
this  is  a  local  peculiarity,  or  prevails  in  other 
rivers.  On  the  south  bank  of  the  Mersey  we  hava 
Wallasey  Pool,  Birket  or  Tranmere  Pool,  Brom- 
boro'  Pool,  Nether  and  Over  Pool,  Stanlaw  Pool, 
Boat-hnuso  Pool  at  Runcorn,  and  Wilder's  Pool 
near  Warrington.  Then  on  its  north  bank  we 
have  Pool  Mouth,  or  Freeh  Fool,  alao  Rear  War* 
jnzeobTvljOOgIC 


**g.VlI.  Jas.  7, '71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


aogttm ;  Lady  Pool  At  Hal«,  Qarston  Fool,  Ot- 
ter's Pool,  aud  lastly,  LirerpooL  M.  D. 
PitivATELY-rRiNTED  BooKa.  —  What    la   the 

etrliest  instdnee  of  a  book  bearing  on  its  title- 
rage  that  it  ia  "privately  printed"  or  "printed 
for  private  circulation"?  Ami  correct  m  sup- 
posing that  there  is  no  example  of  such  an  an- 
DouDccment  previous  to  17S0,  if  as  early  P 

F.  M.  S. 

[The  earliest  priTately-printed  book  mentioned  by 
Hirtjn  in  bis  BiblnirafAlral  CaMoi/ae,  p.  3,  is  De  AnIi- 
imilatt  Brilamica  'Eteltiut  el  Pritilrgili  A'cdeaia  Qin- 
UaritnrU,  cun  ArchUpiieopit  eJHidem  "0.  [ACtriliutcd 
loMatthcw  Parker.  ArchUiiJuipofOnterburrO  K^cu- 
nm  I.on3ini  in  lodibiu  JolutDnis  Dall.  Ix>nd.  lG7i,  rol. 
See  Buhn's  Lnimdn,  p.  1776  ;  O.botiie's  Harltlaa  Cata- 
kpu.  iii.  3  ;  aod  Jones's  Popery  Tracli,  ii.  6B2,  Chetham 

Tub  Prhtt  of  "  Grioo's  Aceobi."— Can  any 
of  your  readers  inform  me  who  is  the  author  of 
the  lines  which  appear  at  the  bottom  of  the  well- 
kaown  print  of  "Guido's  Aurora."  I  have  in- 
quired in  viun  of  anyone  whom  1  know;  nnd  tbe 
subject  ia  so  celebrated,  and  tho  lines  tboniselves 
are  so  accurately  descriptive  of  it,  and  so  pouiical, 
that  I  venture  to  think  that  an  answer  lo  my 
query  may  gratify  others  beaide  myself.  It  is  a 
question  of  some  interest,  whether  the  lines  were 
written  for  the  picture,  or  tho  pioturo  was  com- 
posed afier  the  Imea: — 

••  Qmdrijuab  ijirectna  eqnis  Sol  aureus  enit, 

Lacirer  anlevoUt :  nipidi  fu;^  lampndi  soU^, 
Aonm,  nnbraram  victrix,  ne  vicu  recedas." 
I  quote  the  lines  from  mentoiT. 

'S\u.  RoBHtso:?. 
The  PKoscsaiTiow  of  Geeek  akd  Latin. 
Will  !omo  of  the  ripe  scholars  who  write  iu 
*'N.  &  Q."  settle  this  matter  for  US?  SlcUiktl  and 
O  kiKes  ■'  Bo:iaA  rather  awful;  and  must  we  really 
accept  Kikero?  Mr.  Blakiston  of  Rugby,  writing 
to  the  ObAe,  asserts  that  the  Latin  ii"  was  always 
equivalent  to  our  to,  or  ao" ;  so  that  viimm  was 
pronounced  "  weenura,"  aud  tin  "  weea."  Another 
corresaoniient  asks  how  we  would  pronounce 
"TivioA  vis  animi,"  or  the  following  well-known 

■■  Sea  pntrifc  validas  iu  viscera  vettite  vires." 
ITruIn  would  clearly  become  "  Oui  oui-dal  "  A 
great  number  of  those  who  lore  tbe  I^atin  writers 
without  prctpnding  to  ecbolarsbip  would  he  thank- 
ful fur  an  autboritatire  guidonce  in  this  matter. 
Maerocseie. 
Yox  SATiaiti's  "Tkbahsb  on  Oblioatioms." 
It  there  »ny  Kngliab  translataoti  of  tbis  work  P 
Wbeve  could  I  find  an  aaalreis  " "  '"~ ''— 


Wab  Medals. — Tbe  late  Lord  Hotham  had  a 
imm  medal  with  fmu-  daapa.    Covld  anyone  hare 


a  medal  with  fmirleea  clasps  P  Or  what  is  the 
greatest  number  of  clasps  tuat  anyone  could  be 
entitled  to  p  DoK, 

Wetxfhiina.— "Who  was  WulfrunaP  Three  of 
your  correspondents  (4"*  S.  vi.  630)  name  her  aa 
the  sister  of  three  different  Saxon  kings,  and  give 
two  dates,  tweuty-sii  years  apart,  for  the  founda- 
tion of  her  monastery,  Wulfruna,  wife  of  Earl 
Aldbelm,  must  have  been  Ed|;ar's  sister,  if  ber 
foundation  were  in  970;  for  liad  she  been  the 
sister  of  Etbelred  II.,  ber  age  ia  that  year  would 
have  been  six  years  at  the  utmost.  She  appears 
to  have  been  the  only  daughter  of  Edmund  L  and 
Elgiva,  and  the  sister  of  Edwy  and  Edgar.  The 
Mster  of  Egbert  would  in  990  hare  attained  the 
venerable  age  of  200  years.  IlGitME-iiiiiTDE. 

YoBESniRF.  Prater-book.— A  friend  of  mine 
has  an  old  will,  in  which  occurs  the  passage : — 

"I  leave  tlie  Slim  of  sixpence  to .to  biiyaTort- 

sbire  Prayer-book,  tlierewilh  to  quiet  bis  conscience,  if 
Indeed  be  have  anv  eonacjencc." 

What  was  the  Yorkshire  Prayer-boot?  In 
Lowndes'  Biblioyt-apher't  Manual  I  tind : — 

'■  Rook  of  Common  Pmypr,  Sbeffi  d-l,  17G,>,  Jlo,  itilli 
an  Expoution,  being  a  Tew  foot-notes  to  evade  the  In*." 

Is  this  the  Prayer-book  referred  to,  and  haa  it 
any  further  peculiarities  ?  M.  D, 


»rt>lt(«. 

THR  BLOCK  BOOKS. 
H"-  S.  ii.  313,  301,  3rfo,  421,  4-17.) 

This  interesting  subject  baving  been  revired  in 
connection  with  ray  name  in  tlie  Art  Jtmi'nal  of 
November,  and  in  the  BviUler  of  the  19tb  ult.,  I 
venture  to  resume  it  after  a  lapse  of  two  years, 
during  which  it  has  been  inipos^ble  I  could 
attend  to  it  with  thatcaie  its  importance  demands 
If  however,  by  your  indulgence,  I  am  now  per-. 
mitted  to  continue  it  in  "  N.  &  Q.,"  I  shall  be 
prepared  te  do  so  as  long  as  may  be  necessary  for 
a  complete  elucidation  of  the  numerous  ijuestiona 
which  yet  remain  to  be  solved. 

One  of  the  most  miachievoua  features  connected 
with  the  "  History  of  Early  I'jinting  and  En- 
pnving  "  haa  been  the  system  adopted  by  authors 
of  indulgiujf  in  "  general  possiUlilies,"  and  after- 
wards dealing  with  them  as  "  admitted  truths." 
The  estant  to  which  tbis  pernicious  practice  has 
been  carried  is  indeed  almost  inconceivable.  An 
instance  of  it  may  be  readily  found  in  Mr.  H. 
Noel  Humphrey's  work  enUtled  A  Hutonj  of  the 
Art  of  Piwtinff.  London,  1806:  where,  in  pp. 
30,  81,  the  following  crowd  of  imnginery  theories 

"It  is  highly]'prohable " — "which  may  be 
fairly  attributed  to"  —  "It  is  more  than  ^to-\   ^ 
bable" — "There   is  yet   some   teaaon  to  sus-IL 


14 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[■("■S-VII.  JiS.7,7 


pose"  —  "It  ia  eyident  from" — "which    bad' 

probably  for" — "which  could  onlv  be  obtained 
by"  —  "we  may  preaume"  —  "  Those  last  may 
however"  —  "which  latter  were  possibly" — 
"appears   highly  probable"  —  "It  is  therefore 

Eiflible "  —  "  may  have  been  brought " —  "  The 
owledge  may  bare  spread  " — "  mav  however 
have  been" — "may  have  been  tumea" — "may 
posaibly  hafe  never  been,"  &c,,  &c 

Aa  flie  result  of  these  "  posaibilitles,"  Bevetal 
startling  but  positive  statements  appear  in  the 
some  two  pages,  unqualified  by.  doubt  of  any  kind, 
and  authoritatively  announced  es/ocbto  be  relied 
on,  and  to  be  accepted  aa  such  by  the  reader. 
:Ex.gr.:~ 

"  EDgraviDK  on  wood  bad  howevgr  been  nied  in 
Enrope,  in  a  crude  form,  long  htfare  tlte  time  of  the 
P0I08." 

■•  It  ii  knaten  that  inUfiei  of  saiots  were  produced  by 
timilar  meam  ai  earl/  as  tbe  ninth  ceotui/." 

"The  art  of  printing  patterns  on  slufis,  b/  means  of 
enfir^ved  tablet!  of  wood  or  metal,  wai  in  uss  in  Europe 
in  the  twelfth  century." 

These  declarationi  only  eqnal  in  boldness  that 
of  MOKH.  J.  Ph.  BBEJEiir  (in  "  N.  &  Q.,"  Oct.  31, 
1668,  p.  431),  who  therein  affirmed  that  "  f/<oM- 
»a«ii  of  such  im^es  of  saiota  [viz.,  like  the  "  St. 
Chriitophfr"  called  of  "  1423"]  were  pritOtd  before 
the  invention  of  typoCTaphy,  and  diitribiittd  for 
ciuA  at  the  doori  of  the  comienti" — an  asserlioOj 
I  venture  to  state,  as  reckless  and  unfounded  aa 
ever  escaped  the  pen  of  the  most  careless  writer. 

Being  an  utter  disbeliever  in  any  theories 
which  need  so  many  flights  of  fancy  to  maintain 
them,  I  at  once  declare  mv  preference  for  the 
region  of  "  Fact/'  and  therefore  call  upon  Messrs. 
H.  Noel  Humphreys  and  J.  Ph.  Beijeau  for  the 
authorities  on  which  their  surmises  are  haiarded. 
If  they  are  forthcomingj  well  and  good ;  their 
true  value  can  then  be  properly  estimated;  but, 
in  any  other  event,  the  interest  of  art  demands 
they  should  be  swept  away  as  niischievoua  "  Will 
o'  the  Wisps" — mere  decovs — to  mislead  the 
unwary.  Notwithstanding  tne  credit  deservedly 
attached  to  the  well-known  name  of  "  Weigel  of 
Leipsig,"  as  one  of  the  "oracles"  in  connection 
with  "  Early  Engraving  and  the  Block  Books," 
I  venture,  at  the  risk  of  being  roundly  abused  for 
W.J  temerity,  to  positively  deny  the  power  of 
lb.  Weigel  to  produce  a  smgle  engraving  of  the 
twelfth  century,  to  which  period  he  attnbutes  a 
portion  of  his  collection,  and  I  invite  him  to  do 
80.  The  truth  is  (unpalatable  as  it  maybe)  that 
all  the  professors  of  sylographic  art  have  pet" 
mitted  themselves  to  be  thoroughly  deceivea  by 
the  so-called  "  St  ChrUtopber  of  1423,"  now  ii 
liord  Spencer's  collection ;  and,  mi^ed  by  Hei. 
neckena  folly,  have  blindly  wandered  into  a 
ibyrinth  of  difficulties  from  which  theycannot 

'W  escape.    From  Heinecken  (1771)  toH.  Noel 


Humphreys  (1868),  "  1423  "  has  been  treated  by 
one  and  all  as  the  true  date  of "  the  St.Christopher/' 
and  they  liave  accordiugly  eagerly  seized  upon 
and  adopt«d  it  as  their  sheet-anchor — the  foun- 
daUon  stone  of  their  building  —  the  compasi 
by  which  all  their  theories  have  been  guided, 
and  their  "dreams"  attempted  to  be  juslis^: 
whereas  my  showing  in  September  IStiS  that 
the  date  "1423"  was  not  that  of  the  engraeiag, 
but,  vrith  the  inscription,  had  direct  and  ezduiive 
reference  to  the  "  Legend  of  St  Christopher," 
whose  jubilee  year  was  "1423"  (as  shown  by 
Mb.  Tbous),  added  to  the  undeniable  fact  that 
the  woodcut  was  printed  with  printing  ink,  an3 
produced  by  a  printing  press — altogether  ex- 
ploded the  deception,  and,  as  a  necessary  conse- 
quence^ utterly  destroyed  at  one  fell  swoop  all 
the  legion  of  unsound  speculative  theories  founded 
on  such  universal  beLef  in  the  imaginary  data 
saugned  to  tba  engraving.  It  ia  wholly  useless 
for  any  one  of  those  who  have  written  on  the 
subject  to  now  attempt  to  deny  that  aU  were 
thoroughly  misled  by  the  date  on  the  "  St 
Chiiatopher  "  I  and  such  being  the  case,  I  find  ia 
that  simple  but  important  fact  (as  wel!  as  in 
the  circumstance  that  every  jcritei-  on  "  Early 
EngravioK  and  the  Block  Books  "  has  altogether 
overlooked  the  labour  of  ten  of  the  most  sctiva 


jecting  either  of  the  theories  heretofore  propounded  ' 
on  the  subject  bf  "  Early  Engraving  and  the  Block 
Books,"  which  are  repugnant  to  common  sense 
and  antagonistic  to  truth;  and  I  claim  to  Stand 
excused  if,  in  fighting  my  preaitnt  battle  Mnglft- 
handed,  1  un hesitatingly  declare  the  statement 
"  of  the  Block  Books  being  the  production  of  the 
beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century  "  as  thoroughly 
illusory  and  groundless  as  the  supposed  "  SL 
Christopher  of  1423,"  "the  Brussels  Virgin  of 
1418,"  or  "the  Paris  impostures  of  1406." 

Uy  remark  applies  equally  to  the  statement 
made  by  the  conceited  Heinecken,  the  cridcal 
Ottley,  uie  volatile  Dibdin,  the  plodding  Jacket^ 
the  ponderous  Sotbeby,  the  enthusiastic  Weigel, 
or  to  Messrs,  H.  Noel  Humphreys  and  J.  Ph. 
Berjeau,  all  of  whom  I  maintain  to  be  utterly 
wrong  in  every  cardinal  point  of  their  theories, 
and  I  challenge  literature  to  make  good,  by  satis- 
factory proof,  a  single  one  among  them. 

This  broadcast  defiance  may  primd  facie  ap^eax 
indiscreet,  if  not  unjustifiable;  but  the  propriety 
of  it  will,  if  my  challenge  be  accepted,  be  fully 
justified  by  the  eloctdation  of  a  state  of  things  at 
present  but  feebly  imagined  by  the  general  public^ 
and  a  death-blow  be  dealt  to  illuuons  which  have 
hitherto  sufficed  to  blind  the  senses,  and  mislead 
the  intelligence  of  some  of  the  most  eminent  men 
who  havem&de  "  early  printing  and  engraving" 
u3n7eabyL-.OOC^IC 


ta  a  Tit.  Jax.  7,  II.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


their  peculiar  atudy.  "False  dates" — "wilful 
misstatsmeats  " — "  inventions  " — "  ignorsuce  " — 
«nd  the  "  wildest  fligbta  of  imagiaation,"  have, 
io  the  course  of  time,  been  accepted  as  fact,  imd 
bonndleas  mischief  has  caDeequeDtl;^  arisen  tucre- 
fnm.  Many  instSDcea  of  thia  being  SO  might 
be  readily  adduced,  but  for  the  present  one  will 

What  document  connected  with  art  literature 
can  be  cited  to  compare  in  interest  to  the  Famiiy 
Diary  of  Albert  Dmtrf  the  detflila  of  which  are 
nnreeervedlj  accepted  throughout  the  civilised 
world  with  perfect  good  faith,  as  being  the  simple 
■nd  truthful  relation  of  tbo  great  artist  himself; 
and  jet,  no  more  matdaciotu  relation  coo  be  found 
than  that  very  Diary  in  the  shape  in  which  it  has 
been  permitted  to  reach  the  niaeteenth  centuir. 
Author  after  author  has  so  interpolated  it — first  m 
one  langua^  and  then  in  another,  to  suit  his 
particular  Tiews  and  strengthen  his  especial  argu- 
ments— that  its  truth,  as  a  guide  to  Duter'B  real 
positiea  in  life,  bss  been  utterly  and  wilfully  per- 
Terted  and  lost  sight  of;  and  yet,  to  this  moment, 
not  ■  soul  even  imagines  such  a  possibility. 
Knowing  it  to  be  so  (and  being  at  present  encaged 
in  preparing  for  publication  the  proof  of  wliat  I 
now  declare),  I  may  well  claim  indulgence,  if, 
disregarding  all  that  bes  been  written  or  ima- 
ginea  on  the  subject  of  the  "Block  Books  and 
Early  Printing  and  Eograring,"  I  prefer  to  con- 
aalt  dtred  the  sonroes  whence  every  author  on 
the  subject  must,  or  at  all  events  ought  to,  have 
derived  his  information,  and  to  express  my  own 
belief  thereon,  notwithstanding  it  moy  be  (Uame- 
trically  opposed  in  almost  every  circumstance  and 
del^  to  any  and  every  thing  hitherto  submitted 
to  the  public. 

No  eader  taik  can  possibly  ho  desired  by  my 
opponents  (and  their  name  is  "  Legion  ")  than  to 
answer  and  crush  my  objections,  if  they  have 
bat  Uvih  on  their  aide.  Let  them  furnish  the 
faeU  upon  which  they  lely  to  justify  their  avowed 
eonduaians,  and  I  will  then  either  promptly  refute 
tiiem,or  very  thankfully  admit  mv  defeat  and  their 
jnat  claim  tea  Tietery,  which  will  assuredly  secure 
tham  the  grateful  remembrance  of  posterity. 

IIbxbi  F.  Holt. 

King's  Bead,  CUpbsm  Parte. 


PARODIES. 

(4"-  S.  Ti.  476.) 

The  following  books  consist  of  parodies,  or 

imitationa  of  modem  authors,  more  or  less  in  the 

style  of  those  in  the  Sy'ected  Addreuet : — 

"  A  Saiod  to  tbe  E^ectrd  Addrtittt ;  or,  the  Thmtrnm 
PoManun  Hinonim.  Bv  anolbfr  Antbor."  4tli  ed.  with 
Addition*,  mull  Bro,  London,  1813,  pp.  100. 

*■  Poathnnioiu  Parodies  aod  other  Piece),  oompOMd  b; 
Mmal  of  oar  most  edelirated  Poels,  bat  -      -"*--■ 


in  any   former  edition  of  their  works."     8vo,  Londnd, 
1811,  pp.  102. 

[Attributed  to  Horace  Twiss]. 

*■  Parodies  on  Gay.  To  whicb  is  arMad  tbe  BaItU  of 
tba  Busts:  s  FabJe  attempted  in  tbeStyle  of  Hudibma." 
Small  8vo.  Loadoo,  n.  d..  pp.  52. 

"  Warreoiana  1  witb  Not«>,  Critics!  and  Eipisoatorj-. 
By  tbe  Editor  of  s  Quarterly  Keview."  Small  8 vo,  Lou- 
don, 1824,  pp.  208. 

[A  series  of  clever  jtux  d'aprlt  in  the  manner  of  tbe 


Rcjtctal  Addra 


n  Fiedericic  Dea- 


fonrd,  who  has  prefixed  a  memoir  of  bim  tu  his  tsle 
Amn^te.  S  voia.  Svo,  1852.  Mt.  UeacoD  wrote  abo  "The 
Sorroirs  of  a  Baabfnl  Irishman  "  in  Blackaond'i  Maga- 
zine, and  a  aerieaof  papera  entitled  "The  Picture  Caller}-." 
lie  died  st  Isliugton  in  1S15,  aged  fort/.aix.] 

"Rejected  Articles."  Sro,  London  (Colburo),  1S2C, 
pp.  863. 

[These  ckver  imitations  of  Ella,  Cobbett,  Ward,  Hoz- 
Iltc,  Leigh  Hunt,  Ac,  (re,  onlike  those  I  have  already 
noted,  entirely  in  proK.] 

"  Scenes  from  the  Rejected  Comedies,  by  some  of  the 
Competitors  for  tbe  Priie  of  600i.  offered  bv  Mr.B.  Web- 
ster," &c.    8vo,  London  (PnntA  Omtt),  1841,  pp.  18. 

"Tbe  Shilliag  Booli  of  Beauty.  "Edited  and  UlnBtrated 
by  Cuthbert  Bede,  B.A."  8vo,  Loudon  (BlsckwoodJ, 
n.  d,  pp.  128. 

"The  Puppet-Sbowman's  Album.  With  Contribntlons 
by  tbe  most  eminent  Ijght  and  Heavy  Writers  of  the 
Dsv.  Ilioelrated  by  Gsvuni."  8vo,  London,  n.  d.,  pp.  52. 

'■'Our  Miscellany  (which  ought  to  hare  Come  oat, 
but  I>i<ln't);  eontsinina  Conlribntions  by  W.  HarassiDg 
Painaworth,  Professor  Strongfellow,  G.  P.  R.  Jacobus, 
&c,  and  other  eminent  Aothors."  Edited  by  E.  H. 
Yates  and  R.  B.  Brougb."     Small  8iro,  London,  1866, 

In  addition  to  these  Tolurhes,  which  contain 
parodies  of  varioiu  authors,  the  following  may  be 
mentioned  as  being  imitations  of  some  otis  author 
or  book: — 

"  Wbilehnll ;  or,  the  Dava  of  George  IT."  Sro,  Lon- 
don (W.  Marsh),  1827,  pp. '830. 

[Tiiis  extroDTdinary  and  now  scarce  work  was  the  pro- 
dnciion  of  the  late  W.  Uaginn,  LL.D.  "The  otriect," 
taya  the  Quarterly  Rrtiea,  "  is  to  langb  down  tbe  Uram- 
bletje  House  speciea  of  novel;  and  fbr  this  purpose  we 
are  presented  with  such  an  historical  romance  oa  an  au- 
thor of  Brambietye  House,  flonrisbing  in  Barbadoes  200 
or  2000  years  hence,  we  are  not  certain  whicb,  nor  is  the 
_- _,  --ite^al  moment,  might  fairly  be  ex- 


nanners,  oi 
-e  live 


.  Tbe  book  is.  In  fact,  a  series  of  parodies 


the  pondeR 

original."*  My  own  opinion  is  aomewbat  at  variance 
with  that  of  tha  reviewer;  bnttbaworli  is  a  very  cnrions 
one,  and  merits  a  place  among  cierer  imitations. — Seetlie 
Dtbli*  Uah.  Slag.,  Jan.  1811,  p.  86.] 

"Lejtiplianea,  a  Diaiogne  imitated  from  Lncian,  and 
suited  to  the  present  times.  Being  an  attempt  to  restore 
the  English  tongni  to  ita  ancient  purity,"  Ac     8vo,  Lon- 

[A  well-known  ImiUtion  of  tbe  style  of  Dr.  Johnson, 
by  Archibald  CampbelL]  ■      ivv-iiv^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'kS.VII.  JiN.7,71. 


"Tbe  Whig's  Supplication,  or  [he  Scot's  Hadibras.  A 
Mock  Poem.  la  Two  Paita."  Bj  Samuel  Colvit.  12ina, 
St.  Andrews,  1796. 

•'  The  Laj  of  the  Scottish  Fiddle.    A  Poem.    In  FItb 

Ciutoj.    Supposed  to  be  written  by  W 3 ,  Esq." 

Small  8vo,  London,  1814. 

[Tarionslf  attribatedlo  Wsshinicton  Irving  snd  James 
Eirhe  Pauldiug;  tha  latter  attiHiulion  probablj  cor- 
rect]. 

"  Jokebr,  a  Buriesque  oa  Roheby.  A  Poem.  In  Six 
Cantos.  By  an  Amateur  of  Foauion."  Sto,  London, 
1SI3. 

[By  T.  lege  or  John  Eoby.    See  "  N.  A  Q."  paaim.} 

"Fragments,  after  the  Manner  of  Sterne."  By  Isaac 
Brandon.  I2nia.    Printed  f^r  the  Author. 

This  list  miKht  bo  grently  extended,  but  ia 
eheady  sufficiently  lonfr.  I  must  uot,  bowerar, 
conclude  witliout  reminding  W.  Q.  D  of  a  few 
cl«Ter  parodies  buried  Among-  other  matter.  Such, 
for  instooce,  are :  Pope'i  "  iDiitatious  of  Engliab 
Poets";  the  -well-known  "Pipe  of  Tobacco:  in 
.-"-"iimtalion  of  Sii  Several  Authora,"  by  Isaac 
Kawkiiis  Browne  (see  his  Pofmg  laton  VarioHs 
Subject«,8vo,  1708,  or  the  CambnfiscTart,u.  176) ; 
the  "  Castle  of  Indolence,"  by  James  T! 


"  writ  in  the  m 


ir  of  Spe 


:  the  imitationa 


of  the  style  of  Milton,  by  Thomas  Phillips;  those 
of  Milton  and  Spenser,  by  T.  Warton ;  and,  finally, 
the  "Curioua  Fragments  eitracted  from  a  Com- 
mon Place  Book,  which  belonged  to  Robert  Bur- 
ton, the  Famous  Author  of  tie  Analomy  of 
Melancholy,"  by  Charles  Lamb ;  cum  rnuiUt  aliii. 
WltLIAM  BaTSS. 
Birmingham. 

Though  this  class  of  compoaition  ia  by  no 
means  scarce,  very  few  coUectiona  of  parodies  hare 
ftt  any  time  appeared.  I  may  mention  Thackeray's 
-    '  s  of  OW  Friends  icith  S'eio  Faces  as  fulfilling 


found  a  parody  on  "  Wapping  Old  Stairs, 
which  the  usiuil  ord«r  of  burleBque  ia  inverted, 
the  ridiculous  being  raised  to  tbe  heroic  instead 
of  the  heroic  being  lowered  to  the  ridiculous.  I 
tun  acquainted  with  no  more  pleasing  parody  than 
that  on  Soutbey'a  ballad  "You  are  old,  Father 
William,  the  young  man  cried,"  to  ba  found  in 
AUce't  Adaenturei  ia  Wonderland,  though  it  is 
not  BO  (fenerally  known  as  the  almost  classical 
^  parody  in  Ingoldsby  on  tbe  "  Death  of  Sir  John 
'  Moore."  In  Hood's  works  will  be  found  some 
half-score  of  them,  mostly  on  songs  and  biUlads 
popular  forty  years  ago,  and  consequently  not  very 
telling  on  tbe  present  ^neration.  "  We  met, 
'twas  in  a  crowd,  and  I  thought  he  bad  done 
me,"  is  one  1  can  at  present  call  to  mind.  Al- 
though the  number  of  parodies  of  reputation  ia 
small,  few  works  escape  the  ordeal  of  burlesque. 
Cmingsly  bdMt  Codling^,  and  Sokeby  begat 
Jokeby.    Tbe  nymna  of  Br,  Watts  are  made  tbe 


vehicle  of  parody  in  a  manner  which  would 
scarcely  be  admired  by  that  dinna.  Goethe's 
Faust  has  quite  recently  passed  through  several 

dramatic  versions,  in  one  of  which,  "  There  waa  a 
king  in  Tliule,"  is  rendered  by  "  There  waa  s 
man  in  Tonley  Street"  I  would  suffgest  that  the 
Rejected  Addremet  are  travestied  imitations  rather 
than  parodies,  as  your  correspondent  has  described 
them.  jDi.iAir  Shabmas. 

Sa,  Easlboome  Terrace,  W. 


THE  "BLUE  LAWS"  OF  COSXEGTICUT. 
(4'«  S.  vi.  486.) 

Your  correspondent  Nephbitr  gives  an  ex- 
tract relating  to  smoking  tobacco  from  the  "  Blue 
Laws,  or  the  Code  of  1U50  of  the  Qeneral  Court 
of  Connecticut"  1  should  feel  much  obliged 
if  he  could  give  eome  information  as  to  tlie 
document  from  which  the  quotation  is  made, 
and  as  to  its  authenticity.  For  many  years  these 
"Blue  Laws"  have  been  &  byword  for  eaicnsm 
and  satire  at  the  expense  of  the  stem  old  Pilgrim 
Fathers,  who  went  forth  to  people  tbe  wilder- 
ness, tbe  Bible  in  one  hand  and  tbe  sword  in 
the  otlier,  and  who  were  more  conversant  with 
the  code  of  Aloses  than  with  the  practices  of  the 
beau  mondt.  We  often  aee  quotations  made,  and  no 
doubt  there  is  something  m  existence  purporting 
to  be  the  code  in  question,  but  that  there  is  any 
authentic  document  containing  the  absurdities  so 
frequently  ascribed  to  it  1  cannot  admit  until  it 
is  demonstrated  by  satisfactory  evidence.  I  be- 
lieve it  to  be  a  literary  imposture,  to  be  classed 
with  the  Epistles  of  Phalans  and  the  Chronicles 
of  Ingulf. 

I  have  met  with  a  passage  in  a  work  recently 
published,*  which  conlinns  this  view.  The  writer 
paid  a  visit  to  Dr.  John  Todd,  the  author  of  the 
well-known  Student'i  Manual — one  of  tbe  oldest 
and  moat  respected  clergymen  in  New  England. 
Amongst  other  things,  the  following  conversation 
took  place :  — 

"  Sneaking  of  the  old  Puiitan  s{riu-tne».  and  of  the  ' 
so-called  lliue  Laws  of  Coonecltcut,  the  Doctor  aaii] : 
'  1  have  been  amused  to  see  that  some  of  your  writers 
imagiue  that  tbrre  really  inirt  »uch  laws  in  New  Knglsnd. 
The  whole  thing  a  an  absilrd  fiction,  f;ot  up  by  an 
English  officer  who  lived  for  some  lime  in  Connccticnt; 
but  who  disliked  ao  much  its  strict  Sabbath  observances 
that,  when  he  went  to  New  York,  he  drew  up  these  pre- 
tended laws  out  of  Bpita  and  passed  them  off  for  real 
enactments.  It  was  not  wonderful,  perhaps,  that  people 
so'ignorsnt  abouC  us  as  the  English  wen  shontd  have 
been  hoaxed  iolo  the  belief  that  there  had  really  been 
laws  in  Connecticut  mailing  it  penal  for  a  man  to  kiss 
his  wife  on  Snndays,  and  ul  that  nonsense ;  bat  to  find 
some  of  yonr  living  writers  Mil]  falling  into  an  error  go 


American  Men,  Manners,  and  Inslitations.    By  David 
Macra&    S  vols.    Edinburgh :   EdmonaCon  t  Doiudaa.,  % 
1870.  ■        ™^C 


*<*  a  Tl!.  Jan.  7,  Tl.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


pnpotleTmu,  U  very  melancholy.  Wliat  would  von  tbiok 
oT-an  Amcricin  writing  ibont  England,  uid  qoatiDS 
'Jack  utd  the  Bean  Stalk'  as  an  authentic  historical 
work  ?  " 

If  thin  be  correct,  tlie  "  Blue  Laws  of  Connec- 
ticut "  belong  to  the  same  caieaaTj^  m  Kniclier- 
bocker's  Hitlory  of  Nevi  York.  I  t&nk  it  is  very 
desirable,  for  the  sake  of  literaij  and  histaric&l 
truth,  that  this  point  should  be  cleared  up_.  Your 
corroapoudeot  Nepheiie  may  aid  in  the  inquiry, 
by  stating  from  what  Bourco  he  derired  the  quo- 
tation he  has  given.  What  is  the  imprint,  and 
under  vhat  authori^  is  it  puhlishedr  From 
what  archives  is  it  ^wdP  Wliat  is  its  date, 
and  what  names  are  attached?  Where  is  the 
original  document,  and  what  stamp  of  autheo' 
ticitj  does  it  bear?  Auaweni  to  these  (Queries 
would  ud  in  clearing  up  a  mystery,  or  in  ex- 
poeinfi^  a  hoax  which  has  been  anything  but 
Wmleas.  J.  A,  PicxoH. 

Stodfknowe,  Wavertrep,  near  Lirerpool. 


ST.  ACGUSTIN'S  SERUOSS. 

(l'"  8.  Ti.  602.) 
I  am  not  aware  of  any  book  which  mentions 
tbe  cblircfaes  of  Carthago;  norharo  the  churches 
in  which  the  sermons  of  St.  Auguetin  were 
nreacfaed  been  generally  given  in  any  edition  of 
his  works.  For  probably  the  greater  number  of 
tbe  localitiea  were  unknown,  though  several  places 
where  the  holy  Father  preached  are  specitied  in 
some  editions  of  his  works.  The  CoilKtio  SeUda 
SS.  Sceiemo!  PUlntm  (rariaia,  1830,  et  iWy.)  con- 
tains St.  AngustiD's  works  in  full,  and  in  this 
edition  many  of  bis  sermons  have  notices  oF 
the  ptacea  where  they  were  preached,  and  with 
•ome  the  dates  are  tiaa  gUeo.  Most  of  those 
enumerated  by  T.  F.  will  be  found  in  the  follow- 
ing list  tnken  from  the  above  edition.  I  °;ive  its 
own  enumeration,  generally  appending  the  old 
Dumbeiiog,  as  aliter ; — 

Serm.  XLiS.  al.  237  de  temparc,  in  Matt.  xx.  de  con- 
dnclis  jD  vlnea.— HaMtua  nd  mensam*  S>  Cj-priani  in 
die  Dam*. 

Serni.  I,XXXVlII.<rf.  I8deTOrb.D»m'.  Prmchedat 
Carthage  Wore  bis  biahop  Aurflina. 

Semi.  XC.o/.  Hex  edliiaflSirmoDdo  Do  verbis  Evang. 
llatL  ixiL  de  naptiis  filii  reRii. 

Babilns  Carthagine  in  Restitata. 

Stun.  CXI.  Preached  at  Carthage :  at  its  conclusion 
the  saint  girts  notice  that  the  next  day  will  be  the  anni- 
*er»arj-  of  the  ordination  of  his  biabop — "domni  scnis 


a.    St.  Aagnsllnblmsclftbus 

_  .—  it  noatiB,  qniegmquB  Cartha- 

^uem  Dtutia,  in  oodem  louo  Dienaa  Deo  constnicts  ut: 
et  tamen  menta  dicitur  Cipriani,  r 
CjprtaDOi  epidatiu.  aed  quia  ibi 

tpaa  inraioUlione  ma  paravit  huiG  meosam,  nan  in  qua 
~««t  aive  pMcatar,  aed  in  qua  wcriGcJiim  Deo,  eui  et 
a  oUalin  est.  offeratur."  — 5(rM.   CCCX.  el.  113  In 
U  Cgprimi  Xarij/rii  IT. 


in  quia  ibi  est  nnquam 
St  ImDioIatna,  et  quia 


AnreJii,"  and  that  the  bishop  deains  the  fidthfol  to 
ble  Ibst  dar  at  the  Baailica  of  Fsostos. 
Senn.  CXII.  De  verbii  Evangelii  Locn  xii,, ' 


if  Cj-priani,  pnesente  comite 


die  Dom*. 
8crin.  CL.  de  verbis  Act.'Apost.  xviJ. 

HabltuB  Carthagine. 
Serm.  CLII.  de  verbis  Apost.  Rom.  v£L  at  viU. 

Habltum  Cartbaginc  credimus. 
Serm.  CLIV.  de  verbis  Apwt.  Rom.  vii, 

Hsbitna  ad  mpnsam  R  Mart.  Cyprianl. 
Serm.  CLV.  al.  yS.  de  verbis  Apost.  Rom.  viii. 

Ilabilus  in  Basilica  SS.  Mart".  Sdllitanorum. 
Serm.  CLTI.  al.  xiii.  de  verbis  Apost.  Rom.  viil. 

Habitus  In  Basilica  tiratiaui  die  nalali  Mart".  Boll- 

Serm.  CLXIl'l.  al  lii.  de  verb.  Apost.  Gal.  v. 

Habitns  in  Basilica  Honoriana  viii.  Kal.  Octob. 

Serm.  CLXIV.  al.  xxii.  da  verb.  Apost  Gal.  vi.  Contra 

DonatisIa.s  paalo  post  habitam  Carthagine  eaUationem 

Serm.  CLXV.  at  vii.  da  verb.  Apost.  Ephes.  iii. 

Habitus  in  Bailliea  Majorum. 
Serm,  CLXIX.  al.  xv.  de  verb.  Apoat.  Pbillp.  ii!. 

Habitus  ad  menum  »■  Ci-priani. 
Serm.  CLXXIV.  al.  viii.  de  verb.  AposL  I  Tim.  1. 

Ilaliitns  in  Basilica  Celeiinie,  die  DomlDiea. 

.CCLV.  De  Alleluia.    At  some  other  place  than    . 


Hippo  1  perhaps  at  Carthaije,  ni 
Serm.  CCI.VIII.  In  dicbas  P, 


<4ia. 


Um  oUadn 
AAdi  O/pi 


PflSCi 

Serm.  CCLX.  De  monilia  baptizatomm.^ 

In  ecclesla  Leentiana. 
acrm.  CCLXr.  In  die  Ascenaionis  Dom'. 

Habitns  Carthagine  In  Basilica  Fausti. 
Serra.CCI.XlI.  In  die  Ascent. 

HabitDS  in  Baiitica  Leontinna. 
Serm.  CCLXXTII.  In  bato  S)  Tiueentil  U. 

In  Basilica  Restitute. 
Sum.  CCXCIV.  ai.  xiv.  innatall  martyrU  Gtiddeetia, 
Kal.  Jnlii  (anno  413,  Flniy). 
Serm.  CCCV.  in  soIeinnUate  martvrls  Laarentii  IV. 

Habitus  ad  mcnaam  S.  CypriaDl. 
Serm.  CCCXVIII.  al.  25.  Hnbitna  in  ipso  die  deposi- 
ionis  Teliqniarum  S.  Stepbaul  apud  Hippoaem. 
Serm.  CCCI.V.  al.  *S  de  diversis,  at  Hippo. 

Serm.  CCCLVI.  al.  5f) at  Hippo. 

Semi.CCCLVlI.  oL  85.  De  Unde  pads,  ante  ixAlMt. 
nm  Donatistls. 

Apud  Carthaginem  anno  411  drdtei  15  Mail. 
Serm.  CCCLVill.  ni.  36.  De  pace  et  cbarilatc. 


Serm.  XVII,  In  solcmnitate  Macchatnonim. 

Habitua  Bulbe  Regis,  rogata  episoopi  dvltatis. 

Serm.  XVIII.  In  natali  Quadrati  Maitjris. 

Treached  not  at  Hippo,  but  suine  place  anknown. 

Sirvmui  ex  OMSce  Cauinaui. 

Semi.  V.  Ad  mciisnm  B.  Cypriani  M.  Sexto  idns  S  . 

temhris,  da  ApcE^t.  ad  GalaL :   "  Fratrei  si  oceupati 

fnerit  homo  in  aliquo  deHcto,  ele." 


F.  C.  W 


18 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


tJU  8.  Til.  Jam.  7 


A  Wditkr  SiTDie  {4'»  3.  vi.  496.)  — Very 
Biinilu  to  this  Mjins;  in  Nottinghutuhira  la  one 
vhich  I  heard  the  other  dsj  from  a  medical  mBa 
inWestEent:  "  If  before  Chriatmas  the  ice  will 
bear  a  goose,  after  Christmits  it  will  not  bear  & 
duck."  H.P.D. 


"  Some  people  flattor  tbeouelTea  that  becanM  tb«  ftott 
bu  »t  In  tUi  jear  before  Chiutmai  Div,  we  ihall  ha*a 
a  mild  winler  atlei  it ;  but  tbia  theoi;  u  not  in  accord- 
ance vith  pait  experieDco.  Some  of  oar  moat  serere 
fioita  have  began  on  the  2lat  of  December.  '  In  1666,' 
ea;s  Holiiuhed, '  the  one-and-twentielb  iMj  of  Dtc«mber 
began  a  fnnt  which  continued  go  extremely  that  on  New 
Year's  Etcd  people  went  over  and  alongat  the  Tliamea  on 
the  ice  from  Londoa  Bridf;*  to  WestminUer.  Some 
played  at  botball  *o  boldly  aa  if  it  bad  been  on  diy  land. 
Uiven  of  the  coast  shot  daily  at  the  pricka  act  np  on  the 
Thamee,  and  the  people,  both  rata  and  women,  went  on 
the  Thames  in  greater  nnmben  than  In  any  atreet  of 
London.  On  the  Slat  day  of  Jaoiury,  at  night,  it  b^an 
to  thaw,  and  Are  daya  afld  was  no  ice  to  be  aeeo  between 
LondoD  Bridge  and  Lambeth,  which  andden  thaw  ciuacd 
gnat  floodi  and  high  waien  that  bare  down  bridges  and 
honaea  and  droYrned  many  people  in  England,  espedallT 
in  Yorkahire.'  In  1683  a  hard  fniat  set  in  early  iu  De- 
cember, and  lasted  till  the  7tb  of  Febrniry.  On  tbia 
oceaiion,  the  Tbamea  being  frozen,  there  waa  ■  nreet 
apon  it  from  the  Temple  to  Sonthwark,  lined  with  shops, 
and  haeknejr  coacbM  pU*d  on  the  river.  In  1762  a  hard 
fToat  eommeniscd  on  Christmas  Day  and  lasted  till  the 
29th  of  Jannazy,  and  carriages  were  again  aeen  on  the 
Thames  ;  and  in  the  same  year  the  Rhine  was  frozen  Bt 
Coblenta  for  nearly  foar  weeks  IVom  the  2l3t  of  Decern^ 
ber.  The  great  frost  of  the  present  century  was  the 
hmons  one  of  I8tl,  which  lasted  Beveral  weeks  and  put 
eTeiybody  to  intense  Inconvenience.  To  add  to  tbis  dis- 
comfort, London  was  wrapped  in  an  eitraoidinary  fog 
for  a  week  in  tbe  early  part  of  January  of  that  year, 
which,  among  otber  misfortunes,  caosed  the  Prince 
Re^^t  to  lose  his  wajwhea  going  to  pay  a  visit  to  Lord 
Salisbury  at  HatSeld,  and  not  to  get  iUrther  than  Ken- 
tish Town." 

BoBTO  Caboli  (4"  S.  Ti.  476,  633.)— "Cor 
CaroU  "  ia  not  a  coMteltation,  but  a  double  atu 
mtuated  in  the  coiutellation  Canes  VenaticL 

G.T. 

P«AB  Tebb  (4*  S.  Ti.  476.)— The  wqiewhat 
rustio-looking  tenemeut  which  stands  od  the  right- 
hand  side  of  the  main  road  leading  to  Nazing,  co. 


OF  messuage  (as  I  am  infonned)  is  appended  about 
fort;  acres  of  land.  This  farm  has  moat  probablj 
derived  its  name  from  a  very  old  pear  tree,  the 
remains  of  vhich  are  now  atanding  on  the  gieen 
opposite.  Bat  why  the  singular  additional  title 
of  the  sacred  name  of  "  God  Almighty "  is  nt- 
tacbed  ^  it  is  beyond  my  knowledge  to  state, 
except  that  it  might  possibly  have  been  con- 
nected with  the  ancient  monastery  of  Waltham, 
either  in  pArt  or  whole,  and  so  have  been  deemed 
sacred  by  the  religious  order  of  the  Augustine 
brotherhood  which  bluff  King  Hall  diswJVed  in 


the  thir^-first  year  of  hia  reign.    The  farm  is  in 
the  hamlet  of  Holyfleld.  W.  WniTBBa. 

Walt&am  Abbey. 

BisHT  TO  aTTARHEB  Akks  (4*^  S.  vi.  476.)— In 
r^ly  to  W.  IX.  H.  C,  I  would  repeat  a  solution 
of^  his  difficult  given  in  a  former  number  of 
"N.  &  Q.,"  though  I  am  unable  to  refer  to  the 
exact  p^e. 

Johu  Smith's  eldest  son  dies  *.  p. ;  his  second 
son  succaeds,  and  leaves  an  only  daughter ;  that 
daughter  is  the  heiress  in  Uood  to  her  grand- 
father John  Smith,  and  transmits  his  arms  to  her 
descendants.  Aslongastheline  of  Aerdescendants 
remains,  John  Smith's  daughters  (her  aunts)  caji 
have  no  right  to  transmit  the  Smith  arms  to  their 
issue.  Their  niece  is  the  heiress  through  wbom 
the  ri^ht  must  first  descend,  and  whose  Gne  must 
be  extinct  before  her  aunts  become  co-heireases. 
E.  W. 

Baboit  NiCHOLSOir  (i'^  S.  rl  477.) — I  quite 
agree  with  your  editorial  notg.  As  an  autobio- 
graphy  is  in  print,  what  more  is  wanted  P  Some 
account  of  his  literary  labours,  however,  would 
not  be  out  of  place  in  ''  N.  &  Q."  He  wrote  and 
published  in  numbers  Cockney  Talti — ver^  humor* 
ous,  and  quite  free  from  anvlhing  offensive.  He 
also  published  a  novel,  Domiey  and  Daw/hler.  It 
had  nothing  to  do  with  Dickens's  story ;  the  title 
was  a  mere  ad  captandiim.  He  wrote  also  a  pretty 
little  poem  called  "The  Derbyshire  Dalea,^*  and 
some  good  imitations  (not  parodies)  of  Moore, 
Eliza  Cooke,  &c.  I  remember  reading  in  Tha 
Timet  the  advice  of  Mr.  Commissioner  Phillips 
after  the  delivery  of  the  Baron's  certificate — "  Mr. 
Nicholson,  one  word  at  parting  r  in  future  confine 


EptasAX  ov  THE  Walchkebn  EiPEDinoK 
(1*  S.  li.  63 ;  4'^  S.  r.  174,  407,  606 ;  vi.  84, 144, 
244.) — The  controversy  with  regard  to  the  cor- 
rect version  of  this  epigram  is,  I  think,  set  at 
rest  by  the  following  extract  from  a  letter  sd- 
dresaed  by  Lord  Palmerston  to  his  sister,  the 
Hon.  Mies  Temple,  dated  Feb.  27,  1810.  (Sir 
Henry  Lytton  Bulwer's  lAftof  Viicount  Falmer- 
>ton,  1870,  i.  117)  :— 

"  Did  yon  aee  the  following  epigram  the  other  day  In 
the  Cliraiicltf  if  j'oa  did  not  it  is  a  pitv  .von  ebould 
miss  it,  and  I  send  it  to  yon ;  it  is  by  Jekyll  :— 
'  Lord  Chatham  with  hia  sword  undrawn. 
Stood  wsiting  for  Sir  Richard  Stracban ; 
^r  Richard,  eager  to  get  at  'em. 
Stood  wailing— but  for  what  P— Lord  Chatham  I ' 
"  It  is  very  good,  I  think,  t>oth  in  rhyme  and  point" 
It  will  be  observed  that  Lord  Palmerston  states 
positively  that  the  epigram  ia  by  JekylL 

H.  P.  D, 

BOBKRTDB  COITTVfEABLOF  NORTHUVBEBLASl) 

(4**  S.  vi  457.)— S.  will  find  eome  iulbimation 


4»aVlI.  JiK.T.TI,] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


19 


in  Burke's  Sxtinet  and  Dormant  Peerage,  ed.  1840, 
p.  13fi.  The  Mcount  thereio  giren  woiUl  not  place 
bim  in  tka  "  fiiet  rank"  among  noblemen. 

aw. 

Robert  de  Comyn  waa  Duke  of  NortbumberUiid 
for  the.  apace  of  only  one  jear,  1066-9,  and  waa 
dain  in  Duliaiii  with  most  of  Ua  followers. 
["  The  alaughter  waa  made  the  fifth  of  the  Calends 
of  FebruBi;,  anno  1070."  MUIes'  Cat.  of  Sonour, 
p.  708).]  See  Sit  H.  Nicholas'  Sulorie  Peerage 
tf  England,  lenaed  by  W,  Conrthope,  Esq.,  1857, 
p.  868.  D.  C.  ^ 

CucuuBSS  (i"'  S.  tL  474.)— Cucumber  from 
gherkin  ia  onlj  a  false  ezteosioa  of  the  joke,  as 
m  the  celebrated  "pur  of  urocodiles  "  anecdote 
io  Joe  Milier.  A.  B.,  meetiiig  C.  D.,  detains  him 
with  a  prolix  nairati  re  of  the  capital  pair  of  gaiters 
he  had  picked  op  in  Change  AUej.  C.  B.,  to  cut 
themattetshott,faceUousljBuggeslethathe  should 
call  them  bis  (pair  of)  aHigatora.  Whereupon 
A-  B.  trots  off  delighted,  and  meeliDg  E.  F.  re- 
tuls  that  capital  joke  of  C.  D.'s  about  how  the 
pair  of  gaiters  that  he  had  jnst  purchased  in 
Change  Alley  ought  to  be  called  a  pair  of  croco- 
dilea— "hal  hal"  "Well,"  aaid  E.F.,  "a  pair  of 
croeodilesf  I  don't  see  the  joke."  "No  more 
do  I  now,"  said  the  hapless  A.  B.,  "  bat  it  seemed 
very  funny  when  C.  D.  first  said  it  1 "  So,  as  a 
jt^  may  lose  by  repetition,  a  gherkin  metamor- 
phosed into  a  cucomber  becomes  pointless. 

Vebbhk  Saf. 
Hb.  JACxaoir  must  excuse  my  sapng  that  it  la 
he  who  has  spoiled  this  andeot  joke,  for  to  omit 
the  encumber  is  to  omit  the  point  V.'s  mistake 
is  a  mere  putting  the  cart  before  the  horse  acci- 
dentally. The  anecdote  used  to  be  told  as  fol- 
lows:—  King  was  pooh-poohing  some  man's 
etymologies  with  a  "  Nonsense  !  you  may  as  well 
WKj  mj  name  is  derived  from  cucumber."  "  Well, 
so  it  is,"  was  the  quick  retort:  "  Jeremiah  King — 
Jerry  King  —  j  erking — gherkin  —  cucumber  I " 
Somehow  I  have  always  connected  the  story  with 
a  college  dinner,  hut  I  really  cannot  say  why.  A 
bftd  pun  on  Jerry  King  and  gherkin  would  not 
^Te  lived  so  long,  la  conclusion,  will  some  one 
tell  us  how  it  is  that  young  cucumbera  are  called 
gherkins  P  I  do  not  see  the  etymology  myself. 
P.  P. 
The  derinttion  is  not  gherkin  from  Jeremiah 
Rug,  but  cucumber  from  King  Jeremiah,  Thus 
Sing  Jeremiah,  Jeremiah  iCng,  Jerry  King, 
jerkui,  gherkin,  cdcnmber.  B.  S.  Chakhock. 
Giay'*  Ion. 

L.oi!Hi!«o  Laud  (4*  S.  yi.  476.)— Tour  corre- 
spood^it  R.  T.  C.  may  rest  assured  that  there  ia 
no  Citvmological  connection  between  Lothing  Land 
■nd  Xothiiiii  aod  Lothrin^n.  The  latter  (not- 
wHbatonding  the  tennination  -m^m)  is  simply  a 


corruption  of  Loiharingia,  I.  e.  Lotharii  Segnum, 
According  to  the  iSKat.  Aec.  Satt.  the  name  Lo- 
thian is  said  to  be  from  loch,  but  it  is  more  pro- 
bably derived  from  lad,  lod^watet.  Polydnre 
Virgil  informs  us  that  Laudonia  (t.  e.  Lothian)  in 
his  time  was  an  ertensive  district  beaconing  at 
the  Tweed,  and  stretching  conmderably  beyond 
the  city  of  Edinburgh.  Lathing  Land  (in  Domes- 
day Ludingaiand)  anciently  formed  part  of  the 
hundred  of  Ludinga,  which  waa  afterwards  colled 
the  Half  Hundred  of  Mutford.  It  may  hare  had 
its  name  from  Lake  Lothing,  &om  the  same  root 
OS  the  name  Lothian.  Sackung  (Suffolk)  says  of 
Lothinaland :  "  The  Waveney  washes  its  western 
side,  while  Oulten  Broad  and  Lake  Lothing  form 
its  southern  boundary,  which  uniting  with  the 
Ocean  near  Lowestoft,  insulate  the  district" 

B.  S.  CnABnoOE. 
Griy'i  Inn. 

P.  3.  Conf.  the  rirer  names  Lyd,  Lud,  Loddon, 
and  local  names  commencing  with  Lud,  Lod. 

The  name  of  Lotbringen  (Lorraine)  has  nothing 
to  do  with  the  Oerman  word  loth,  plummet,  or 
with  the  acddental  fact  that  the  region  which 
bears  the  name  "  adjoins  Champagne,  a  level 
country."  Lothringen  is  Lotharingia.  The  pre- 
sent Lotbringen  is  a  small  part  of  a  region  that 
was  named  Lotharingia  becanae  it  was  assigned 
to  the  Emperor  Lothar  (Lothwre  in  Gibbon's 
Ittclme  and  Pall)  when,  on  the  death  of  Lewis 
the  Pious  (Charlemagne's  son),  the  empire  was 
divided  among  his  ^ree  sons — Lothar,  Charles 
(king  of  the  West  Franks),  and  Lewis  (king  of 
the  East  Franks).  Johk  HosKTira-ABBAiuLi.. 
Combe  Tiearaga,  B««r  Woodstock. 
"  Cketosiro  "  (4*  S.  vi.  476.)— I  never  heard 
or  met  with  the  word.  But  it  may  be  a  diminu- 
tive of  Certota,  the  Italian  word  for  a  Carthusian 
convent  In  the  Certosa,  near  Florence  (now 
dissolvedl,  various  trades  were  carried  on.  There 
was  a  laooratory,  a  distillery  of  Chartreuse  and 
peppermint-water,  &c,  Ac,  a  shoemakers'  shop, 
a  tailors'  ditto,  &c.  As  a  carpenters'  workshop 
the  premises,  the  inlaying  of  ivory  a-^ 
'  ■     — u._;-^ta 


oniamental  wood  (■ 


occupatioa  in  Italy) 


may  have  formed  a  part  of  the  conventual  in- 

ud  such  work,  as  well  as  otl 
may  have  been  called  eertottno  work,  o: 


y  hav 
lavaro  eertotino.     There  does  not  U 
mystery  about  the  term. 

jAms  Hkrbt  Dixo9'. 

Akoikit  ScoTTiaH  Dbm  (4'»  8.  vi.  463.)— The 
deed  given  by  J.  M.  ia  doubtless  interesting,  but 
I  have  one  in  photooincograph  lying  before  mo, 
earlier  by  one  hundred  and  twenty-one  yenrc,  and 
deserving  of  notice  in  yoor  columns,  as  believed 
to  be  the  earliest  document  in  the  vernacular 
extant  It  is  on  award  of  an  ancestor  of  mine,  i 
Andrew  Mercer,  Lwd  of  Meiklour,  in  a  dispute,  I 


20 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


between  Robert  Stewart,  Eatl  of  Fife  aod  Men- 
teiib,  and  John  Lo^e,  eon  itod  heir  of  Sir  John 
Logie,  Knight,  relatiTe  to  the  lands  of  Lof^e  and 
Strsthfrartny  in  PerthshJM.  It  was  given  in  pre- 
sence o(  King  Robeit  II.  and  his  son  John.  Earl 
of  Canick,  and  is  dated  Maj  16,  1385. 

The  oripoAl  IB  in  the  charter  cheat  of  Sir  Wil- 
liam H.  Stewart,  Bart,,  of  Murthly,  and  a  copy 
was  published  in  the  Edinburffh  Evenutff  Courant 
of  March  15  last  bj  a  correspondent  who  signed 
liimaetf  J.  A.  R.,  and  termed  it  "the  oldest 
writing  yet  discoTered  in  the  Scotch  language." 

I  understand  that  the  fac-Hnile  of  which  I  am 
possessed  is  to  be  fonnd  in  the  Ked  Book  of 
Grantully.  W.  T.  M. 

Royal  Tipogkaput  (4'*  S.  vi.  299,  443.)— It 
is  well  known  that  somewhere  between  the  years 
1840  and  1850  Her  Majesty  and  Prince  Albert 
occasionally  employed  tbemeelves  by  etching  upon 
copper.  They  received  practical  instruction  in  the 
art  from  Mr,  Hayter,  afterwards  Sir  George 
Hayter,  who  attended  erery  morning  at  Windsor 
Castle  for  the  purpose.  If  a  private  copper-plate 
press  was  made  use  of  for  atriking  off  impressicms 
of  tho  plates  produced,  it  would  be  at  Windsor 
Castle,  and  not  at  Buckingham  Palace,  as  stated 
by  II.  ¥.  P. ;  but  there  is  some  doabt  as  to  the 
existence  of  such  a  thing,  and  certain  it  is  that 
Mr.  Juhn  Burgess  Brown,  a  bookseller  and  copper- 
plftte  printer  of  Windaor,  was  regularl;f  empfojed 
by  the  royal  artists  to  produce  impressions  of  the 
lilates  as  they  were  etched.  As  secrecy  was  de- 
sired, be  was  careful  to  see  that  the  same  quantity 
of  proof  paper  which  he  bad  given  to  his  work- 
man was  received  back  in  the  shape  of  impresdons. 
It  seems,  however,  that  the  latter,  perhaps  with- 
out ulterior  object,  struck  off  a  waate  or  trial 
proof  or  two  of  each  on  card  or  ordinair  paper. 
These  he  pasted,  aa  curiosities,  in  a  sort  of  album, 
to  the  number  of  uxty-three,  and  in  thia  state 
they  were  seen  by  a  Mr,  Jasper  Tomsett  Judfre,  of 
Windsor.  Thia  person  managed,  after  some  hag- 
gling, to  purchase  tho  lot  for  the  sum  of  five 
pounds,  and  having  cleaned  and  mounted  them, 
proposed  to  recoup  himself  by  their  exhibition 
and  by  the  sale  of^  an  analytical  list,  under  the 
title  of  A  Beecriptiae  Catalogue  of  the  Royal  Vic- 
toria ami  Albert  Gailtry  of  EUhtiuii.  At  this  the 
royal  artisla  wero  greatly  annoyed,  and  gave  in- 
Btructions  to  their  solicitor  to  file  a  bill  in  Chancery 
agmnst  Strange,  the  publisher  of  the  catalogue, 
on  the  ground  that  the  etchioga  referred  to  had 
been  wrongfully  obtained. 

Tbo  Bubse^juent  proceedings— which  certainly 
appear  to  have  been  harshly  oppresaive  against 
toe  offending  parties— with  a  list  of  the  etchings, 
and  a  lar^e  amount  of  curious  matter,  are  minutSy 
set  forth  in  a  publication  entitled  — 

"  The  '  Boyal  Etchings.'  A  Statement  of  F»ot»  re- 
lating to  the  Or^D,  Object,  and  Pragrem  of  the  Pro- 


coe^Dgs  in  Chancery,  instituted  by  Her  Hajestr  and  the 
Prince  ConKirt ;  to  whidi  are  appended  Codhu  of  Letter* 
to  the  Qneen  ani)  Prince  Albert,  &c."  Bj  Jaaprr  Tomsatt 
JndRe.  8vo,  Loudon,  W.  Strange,  Jon.  (1846)  pp.  74. 
Price  Balt-a-Crawn. 

WiLLiiu  Bats. 

Binningham. 

Paulkt  of  Aiipokt(4*  S.  Vi.  0.)— Tho  brothers 
of  George  twelfth  Marquis  of  Winchester  were— 

"  1.  Norton  Paulet,  M.P.  fbr  Wincbester,  manied,  bat 
died  I.  p.  1759." 

S.  Hoirj  P.,  capt.in  IheAnny,  died  aamirrivd  1743. 

5.  John  P.,  ia  the  Armj,  died  unmB cried  in  Gennanj^. 
i.  Chiries  P.,  eapt.  R.N.,  died  namarried  1762. 

6.  WilliamP.,inth«N»vj-,diedunnurriedl773. 

G.  Herlwrt  P.r  Ospt.  in  the  Arinv,  died  unmarried 
1746. 

7.  Francis  P,  died  a  minor  at  Cambridge  1742." — Z)*- 
brtU't  Fteragt,  1826. 

CHiBLES  RrSBELL. 
Camp,  Aldeiihot. 

"  Thbbb  wab  a  Lutlb  Majt  "  (4**  S.  vL  611.) 
Mk.  JAOiaoff  ii  careless  as  to  the  measure  of  tbia 
old  nuiae^  rhyme.  Hie  last  line  would  neither 
read  nor  si&g  in  time.  It  ought  to  be  — 
"  Aid  ahot  bim  tbnwsh  the  head." 
The  first  and  second  verses  are  constantly  suag  in 
the  nursery ;  but  there  b  a  third  verse  (see  tho 
Percy  Bocie^'s  Tracts)  which  is  not  so  generally 
known.  Ther«  is  in  the  same  collection  another 
short  ballad,  which  goes  to  the  same  measure  — 
"  Then  was  ■  litck  msn,  and  he  wooed  a  little  maid,"-- 
where  the  little  maid,  with  a  most  housewifely 
prudence,  desires  to  know  bi*  means  of  support 
m  marriage,  and  asks — ■ 

-  Will  the  leva  that  you're  so  rich  in 
Hake  a  Are  in  the  kilobeo. 
Or  the  little  God  ai  Love  turn  the  spit  ?  " 

m- 

Thb  SwAM-SoNe  Of  Pabsoh  AvuHr  (4""  S.  yi. 
493.) — There  is  »  remarkable  coincidence  in  this 
DairatJTe,  which  I  mention  with  a  denre  to  elicit 
some  fuller  information,  tending  to  idenUfy  Par- 
son Avery  as  an  emigrant  from  England,  and  a 
settler  in  North  Carolina — probably  the  pastor 
of  a  congregation  composed  of  Presbyteriana  emi- 

Sating  from  Newbury  in  Berkshire,  "  one  of  the 
onsands  of  families  who,  in  1635,  retired  to  New 
England,"  and  possibly  founders  of  Newbeme 
(Newberie  P)  in  the  above-named  statfl. 

The  Avery  family  were  connected  with  the 
clothing  trade  in  Newbury,  Beriis,  at  that  date. 
They  were  Presbyterians,  and  the  name  has  only 
been  extinct  for  a  few  years.  Latterly  they  were 
Blackwnll  Hall  factors  in  Cateaton  Street,  and 
a  branch  settled  at  Marlbro  in  Wilts.  Dr.  Avery, 
the  second  treasurer  of  Guy's  Hosmtal,  was  re- 
lated to  the  AveiTs  of  Newhu^.  They  used  the 
arms  confirmed  by  Cooke  to  Wm.  Avery  of  Fill- 
ingby,  co.  Warwick — vii.  ermine  on  a  pale  en|- 
grajled  azure,  three  lions'  heads  couped  or.        ;^  I C 


4">S.Vir.  Jan.  7,71.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


It  is  Tet7  evident  that  the  poem  relates  to 
anotlieT  Newbui;  than  tha  EngUslt  town.  Itauits 
well  with  tlie  town  of  that  name  in  North  Caro- 
Eos ;  and  posaiblj  aome  reader  of  "  N.  &  Q."  on 
that  shors  of  the  Atlantic  ma;  be  able  to  furnish 
local  tntditioas,  to  confirm  the  ezistence  of  rocks 
at  Marble  Head,  and  to  identifj  Parson  Arerj  as 
the  pastor  of  colonists  &Dm  Newbury,  Berks,  who 
named  the  new  settlement  after  the  home  the; 
had  left  in  gearch  of  religious  aad  citU  freedom. 
E.W. 

The  poem  referred  to  is  one  of  Whittier's,  pub- 
lished in  his  Toltime  entitled  Some  Baliadi. 

A.  E. 

iKisa  FoRFEiTOEES  (i"  S.  Ti,  545.)  —  The 
books  or  hook  referred  to  by  the  Abbfi  MacGeo- 
Eiiagan  as  accompaojing  the  Report  on  Irish  For- 
feitures in  1700,  must  be,  I  conclude,  that  rare 
Tolume — 

"A  List  of  tbc  Claimi  ai  tbe^  are  ealred  witii  (be 
Tnislees  at  Chichester  Honsa  oo  Collega  Green,  Dublin, 
on  or  before  the  Tenth  of  Augnst,  1700,"  Fol,  "  Dablili# 
DrlDted  by  Joseph  Rsv,  and  an  Id  be  eold  br  Patrick 
Campbell.  Booludler,  in  Shiaaer  Row,  1701." 

The  copy  which  belonged  to  William  Luttrell 
is  in  my  Irish  library.  E.  Ph.  Shiblbt. 

PiTCHiR  (4">  8.  yi.  249,  389,  486.)  —  Fannut, 
the  Latin  equivalent  of  ptdch,  is  used  b;  Pliny  of 
"  a  substance  that  crows  on  the  tree  £^lops  be- 
rides  the  ocorne."  (Pl.  16,  8,  13,  $  86.)  May  not, 
therefore,  the  "  legend ''  "  We've  ^ot  another 
little  chap  at  'ome  as  this  one  'ere  ain't  even  so 
mnch  as  apatch  t<po»  "  ("  N.  &  Q."  p.  390)  mean 
this  "one  ere"  is  no  more  to  be  compared  with 
"  the  little  chap  at  'ome,"  than  is  the  parasite 
Kpon  the  onh  with  the  acorns  P  Or  may  not  a 
simpler  elncidation  b«  found  in  the  practice  of 
mending  tattered  garments  F  The  ptUeh  ehonid 
be  as  like  as  may  b«  to  the  material  to  be  patdied. 
Hence,  when  one  peison  is  very  mnch  unlike 
•nother,  he  may  properly  be  said  to  bo  "no 
pafMn  for  bim."^  EsinniD  Txw,  M.A. 

Tkb  RocHBaiEB  HospiTit  (4'"  S,  vi.  602.)  — 
The  word  "  proctor  "  in  connection  with  Watls's 
hospital  is  now  undentood  to  mean  a  privileged 
beggar.  It  is  used  in  this  sense  in  the  statutas  of 
I^w.  VI.  and  Elizabeth.  For  an  admirable  ac- 
count of  the  nse  of  the  word  which  so  bothered 
Kentish  antiquaries  of  the  last  century  see  a  jwper 
by  Mr.  William  Brenchley  Bye  in  Archceoiogia 
OnMamt,  vi.  63,  53.  OSOBOB  Bkbo. 

Babibs'  Bbiib  (4"-  S.  vi.  475.)— These  are  re- 
terred  to  in  the  School  ofJlecreation,  or  Gentleman' e 
T^or  (edition  of  1684),  in  the  part  about  beU- 
riitgi"g,  quoted  in  Ellacombe's  Set/rieiandJiinffers 

"  Secoudl]-.  nor  let  tha  bdla  be  made  thy  lollabv,  to 
divwo  some  ditaatiafacUan,  sad  m  maka  toM  t«pair  to 


the  belfree  (yctis  the  narse  to  her  whiatle-bells)  lo  qniet 
thy  disturbed  mind ;  and  thus  (as  the  divine  poet  encel- 
lently  expresses  it)  to  silence  it  with  — 

'  Look,  look,  what's  here  I  A  dainty  golden  thing  ? 
See  hoiT  the  dandng  belts  tarn  round,  and  ring 
To  pleaso  my  bantling,' "  4c. 
Can  any  one  tell  ue  who  the  "divine  poet"  iaP 
Mr.  Ellacomhe  does  not  know.    In  my  copy  of 
the  School  of  Sccreation  (1696)  the  above  does 
not  occur.  J.  T.  F. 

Korth  Eelsey,  Brigg. 

Addison  makes  mention  of  baby's  corals  in 
No.  I,  of  the  Spectator,  where,  drawing  a  fanciful 
portrait  of  himself,  he  says  :— 

"TTie  gravity  of  my  behaviour  at  my  very  Erst  ap- 
pearance In  the  world  seemed  lo  favour  my  molher's 
dream )  fat,  as  aba  ha*  often  told  me,  I  threw  away  my 
rattle  when  I  was  two  monlha  old,  and  would  not  make 
use  of  my  coral  till  (hey  bad  taken  tbe  bells  from  it." 

The  Spectator  appeared  in  1711,  and  its  author 
was  brought  into  the  world  with  the  gravity  and 
solemnity  in  the  text  recorded  in  1672;  so  this 
takes  us  back  two  hundred  years  in  the  hiatory  of 
the  coral  and  bells.  JrUAB  Shaiiuak. 

EcsTATics  (4"  3.  vi.  475.)— Last  year  there 
was  published  a  very  able  and  inlereatiog  work 
descriptive  of  the  town  and  vicinity  of  Gheel,  the 
Bedlam  of  Belgium.  The  title  of  the  book  is 
Gheel,  the  City  of  the  Simple,  bv  the  author  of 
lUmigh  Interior!,  Chapman  and  llall,  18C0.  It  is 
dedicated  to  that  diatiiiguiehed  philautbropiat  and 
"  ■  '  it,  the  late  Dr.  Ducpfitiaui.  Perhaps 


Belgian 

this  might  be  of  st 


« to  your  II 


D  Joy. 


Samplers  (4"  S.  vi.  500.)— Prcauniiog  that 
M.  D,  does  not  desire  to  confine  the  Bpecimeos  of 
sampler  poesy  for  which  he  asks  to  euch  na  are 
obtain  able  in  the  dwolUnga  of  the  humbler  classes, 
I  send  aome  lines  worked  on  a  sampler  by  one  of 
my  aunts  at  the  ago  of  nine : — 

■'  Jeans,  permit  thy  graciouB  name  (o  stand 
As  tbe  firet  work  of  Arabella's  hand  ! 
And  while  her  fingeta  on  the  canvas  move. 
Engage  her  tender  Ihonghts  to  seek  thy  love. 
With  thy  dear  children  may  she  have  a  part, 
And  form  thy  image  on  her  vouthfnl  heart. 

"  MiPT  ■Arabella  Pearson. 
"July  It-*,  1801." 

I  shall  be  glad  to  know  if  any  of  your  corre- 
spondents have  met  with  these  lines  eleewhere, 
ns  my  aunt,  who  was  taken  to  her  rest  just  nine 
years  later,  was  from  an  early  age  accustomed  to 
verafy  in  the  style  of  the  above.  J.  A.  Vs. 

The  Boy-Bishop  of  thb  PROPiflABHA  fob 
Christmas  (4'"  S.  vi.  491.)— As  Mr.  MacCabb 
has  recently  furnished  two  notes  upon  Christmas 
Customs  and  Boy-Bishopf,  I  write  to  say  that  the 
custom  exists  even  in  our  time  at  tbe  Propaganda 
College  of  Roma  of  choosing  on  Christmas  Eve 
(by  ballot)  a  boy-bisliop.    'The  practice  is  said 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»  S.  Vll.  Jan.  7, 71. 


to  have  been  stipulated  for  in  the  orlginsl  grant 
of  money  at  the  foundiition  of  this  institution, 
to  perpetuate  the  Middle  Ages'  custom  in  t!iis 
Beminary  at  the  Christmos  time.  The  happy  boj- 
bishop'a  attendants  are  a  deacon  and  eubdeacon, 
wlecUd  by  hia  loidahip  generally  from  the  Italian 
poctiou  of  the  commuuty.  Ilia  episcopal  func- 
tions ceaw  the  day  after  the  Epiphany. 

I  nitl  be  Terv  thankful  for  your  insertion  of 
this  note,  as  all  Christmu  usages  are  of  much 
inttiiest  to  your  readers.  Datid  Fltm. 

Dub  ok  Dona  (4**  S.  vL  600.)— The  usual 
meaning  of  dor,  dour,  dor,  found  in  geograpbical 
namea,  is  water,  from  the  Welsh  dmr  (au^r), 
Cornish  ijoicer,  dotar^  douar,  Ihow ;  Armoric  door, 
dutiar;  Gaelic  dobhar,  domhar,  dur;  Irish  dar. 
Fiondonr  (Jionn-dar)  is  ^  white  or  fair  water ; 
and  Dardoman  may  mean  deep  water  {duT'dom- 
hainn).  Wachter  wya  that  Air  in  some  Con- 
tinental names  is  ^  trajectus  fluminis  :  hentx 
Bnjodurum,  "  tmj^ectus  Bojorum  in  Norico " ; 
Batavodurum,  ti^ectus  BataTomm  in  Belgio ; 
Duten,  Durstede,  Durocasaium  {Drear),  &c.  The 
name  Ltadtt  ia  not  derived  from  this  root,  and 
tho  only  etymological  part  of  the  word  is  l~d. 
R.  S.  Chabitock. 

Gra;'*  Ina. 

Bur  =  water  in  British.  Gkobob  Bbdo. 

Dwr  ia  British,  perhaps  European,  for  water 
Dirrwent,  I  believe,  though  I  am  not  certain, 
meaning  running-water,  a  river.  This  may  be 
found  in  I/eneeM-water,  a  not  uncommon  form  of 
adding  a  current  word  with  the  same  meaning  to 
an  earlier  one.  Dicr  is  found  also  in  Dwrby, 
Derby,  a  place  by  water,  the  river  bebg  the  Der- 
went,  pronounced  "Darrand,"  and  assuming  in 
the  dialect  of  the  neighbouring  counties  the 
harder  form  of  "  Trent"  There  is  a  Herefordshire 
river  Dour,  and  I  have  do  doubt  but  the  word 
Douto  has  the  same  origin.  J.  PliICE. 

The  Pasis  Catacombs  (V  S.  vi.  SOO,  467.)— 
Yonr  correspondent  H.  H.  aeems  to  have  fallen 
into  the  common  mistake  of  confounding  the  Cala- 
combei  of  Paris  trith  the  Carri^res.  The  fact  ia 
the  Caleeombettotmhat  a  comparatively  small  por- 
tion of  the  vast  aubteiranean  maze  which  extends 
under  the  southern  quarters  of  Paris,  and  from 
which  was  quarried  tba  stone  for  the  nuilding  of 
old  Lutetia.  In  1785  a  certun  part  of  these  ex- 
cavations was  separated  from  the  remainder  by  a 
thick  wall,  and  was  otherwise  prepared  for  the 
reception  of  the  bonea  to  be  taken  from  the  ceme- 
tery of  the  Innocents.  In  the  year  following  the 
place  was  consecrated  by  the  clergy  under  the 
name  of  the  Catacombes,  and  from  that  date  to 
1814  numerous  consignments  of  huotan  remains 
removed  from  the  various  intramural  church- 
yards have  been  made  to  those  gloomy  Inns, 
where  the  skuUa  are  tticked  up  very  much  after 


the  manner  of  old  port  wine.  Of  this  ostuaire,  as 
it  is  termed,  I  possess  a  very  exact  plan,  iocludin^ 
a  considerable  portion  of  the  adjacent  passages, 
made  "  sous  la  direction  des  ing^nieurs  dea  mines  " 
in  1657;  and  a  few  years  previously  I  saw  at  the 
oifice  of  the  director  a  plan  in  the  course  of  ese- 
cution  on  a  large  scale  of  the  whole  of  the  Car- 
riirei.  An  accurate  guide  to  these  excavations  IB 
indeed  abaolutely  necessary,  as  men  are  conatanlly 
employed  in  making  good  with  masonry  the  old 
supports,  which  from  time  to  time  pve  way  under 
the  weight  imposed  upon  them.  Formerly  the 
CaUieombei  formed  one  of  the  regular  lions  of  the 
dty,  but  for  a  long  period  access  to  them  on  the 
part  of  viwton  has  been  strictly  prohibited.  The 
usual  approach  is  by  a  stair  iff  a  courtyard  adjoin^ 
ing  the  Barriire  d  Enfer,  but  there  are  not  less 
than  fifty  entrances  lu  all.  R.  H.  D.  B. 

Fbbt,  OB  F.  E.  B.  T.  (3""  S.  pamm :  4"'  S.  vi. 
4ei.)^The  oidnion  of  Kiiodocanakib,  that  these 
letters  originally  formed  one  word,  and  boie  a 
Natural  and  not  a  sort  of  anagrammatic  meaning, 
seems  to  be  perfectly  well  founded.  His  state-  > 
ment  of  the  use  of  the  word  in  the  arms  of  Savoy 
before  the  date  of  the  defence  of  Khodes  is  con- 
elusive  on  that  point  What,  then,  wasthe  meaning 
ofthewordF  Hereisasuggeetion whichnaturally 
presents  itself  to  the  mind.  The  princes  of  the  house 
of  Savoy  set  up,  from  a  veir  early  period,  to  be 
very  pious.  Ainadeut  was  a  faTourite  name  witb 
them.  A  cross  was  their  cognisance.  The  moat 
fitting  word  to  apply  to  it  would  be  lert  in  the 
proper  and  popular  sense  of  the  verb  "He  bears," 
indicating  that  He,  of  whom  the  Cross  was  the 
tvpical  emblem,  bore  the  sins  of  the  world.  A 
clever  and  innnuating  courtier  might  afterwards 
discover  that  the  letters  of  the  word  could  be  ap- 

6 lied  as  a  flattering  eulogium  to  the  Defender  of 
Lhodes,  and  the  £scovery  once  made  and  pub- 
lished would  be  readily  adopted  by  s  delighted 
Sirince  and  a  loyal  people.  But  it  is  a  curioUB 
act  that  the  very  prince  to  whom  this  aort  of 
fiattery  was  applied,  and  to  whose  martial  gal- 
lantry writers  of  a  subsequent  date  (Sansovino, 
DeUa  Origine  de'  Cavaluri,  Venice,  168a)  ascribed 
the  origin  of  the  word  itself  as  a  heraldic  distinc- 
tion, took  for  bis  own  device  a  running  stream, 
with  the  motto  "  Vires  acquirit  eundo  .  (Berto- 
lini,  Compendia  delia  >Storta  della  Stale  Caia  di 
Savoid).  fg- 

Babbebs'  Fobfeits  (4"'  S.iii.  264.)— Twenlj- 
flve  years  ago  no  alluuon  to  a  raaor  as  a  weapon 
or  as  a  aniddal  instrument  was  permitted,  under 
a  fine  of  a  gallon  of  beer,  in  any  of  the  Dartford 
barbers*  shops.  In  the  celebrated  breweries  <^ 
the  same  town  the  word  water  is  tabooed  under  a 
heavy  fine :  the  article  when  alluded  to  must  be 
styled  Upior,  A.  J.  UDXinr, 

44,  Bcaabeiough  Gardens,  Sentb  BtlgrHia.  i 

:i7ea7>TjOOglC 


'  Learned,  Chatty,  VsefliL' — ATHEK^nu. 


lit 


Every  Saturday,  Foolscap  Quarto,  and  to  be  had,  by  Order,  of  all  BookHellei 
and  Xewsmen, 

Price  Fourpence, 

NOTES  AND  QUEEIES : 

A  MEDIUM  OF  DfTER-COMMTJNICATION  FOR  LITERARY  MEN, 
GENERAL  READERS,  && 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES  contunfl,  weekly,  Amufflng  Articlee 
the  fbllowing  subjects  r — 

EngUsb,  Irish,  and  Soottiah  History, 

lUoatratod  bj  miginol  oonunmiicatioDfl  «itd  inedited 


I   some  of 


f  aiLd  Literaiy  History, 

ukUj  of  Eogluh  Aothon,  with  Notices  of 
unknown  Editions  of  their  Works,  and 
Lnthorahip  of  AsoDjmons  Books. 

(M  Poetry, 

deal  and  phUolo^eol  ninstrations. 

I  Pioverhial  Sayi:^ 

n,  meaning,  and  application. 


Popular  AntlqnilieB  aiLd  Folk  Lore, 

Proserving    the    fest-fading    relies    of    the    old 
Hjthologiea. 

Philology, 

Indndtng  Local  Di&leete,  Archusms,  and  Notes  on 
OUT  old  Poets. 

Genealogy  and  Heraldry, 

Including  Histories  of  Old  Families,  compUtioa  of 
Pedigrees,  &c, 

MisoeUaneons  Botea^  Qaraies,  and  Hqilies 

On    points   of    Ecclbsusticu.     HiffroHT,    Tofo- 
na^rsT,  FiHB  Abts,  HisciLLuraova  Aktiquitibs, 

NUHISIUTICS,  ice. 


n«  jam  since,  NOTES  Ucd  QUSBIE3  was  started  for  the  pnipoae  of  sappljing  what  was  felt  to  bo  a 

wast,  via.  a  Jonnul  to  auist  Loren  of  Literatnra  and  Hen  of  BMWireh  in  their  respective  studies. 

i  Hsdinm  of  Inter^oonimunieation  between  those  for  whom  it  was  intended  was  at  once  admitted ; 

ion  recognised  as  Ererjbody's  Common-place  Book.     Its  steady  piogress  in  pubtio  opinion  since 

indars  anj  account  of  its  otyect  nnnecessarj. 

{( these  jesn  a  new  generation  has  arisen,  to  whom  it  may  be  fitting  to  point  out  that  NOTES  jwd 

abine  two  of  the  most  marked  cbatacteristics  of  this  age— the  spirit  of  iuqniiy  and  the  principle  of 
For  while  in  accordance  with  the  fonner,  its  columns  are  open  to  all — from  the  ripe  scholar  to  the 
(tndeDt — who  are  in  search  of  Uteraiy  or  historical  information,  it  is  hj  the  mntual  co-operution  of 

iniriet  Blsrt«d  in  it  are  solved.    Uen  of  the  highest  attainments  and  sodal  station  have  recognised 

oth  asking  and  answering  questions  in  it«  oolnmns,  and,  henoe  it  is  that  NOTES  ahs^V^^^^I^    | 

icrease  in  infloence,  ntili^,  aad  drenlation. 


I  AND  aVEEIES    , 

a  by  Google 


Tti«  following  eminent  Wiiteis,  besidei  man;  oiLeiB  eqnallf  distiDgnished  who  have  chosen  lo  f  reserve  thai 
ineoffnilo,  have  cont.ribnted  le 


A,  AflSPiTBL,  Esq. 

Laid  BftATBBOOSB. 

Bev.  Thoius  Bois. 
JoKK  Bhittoh.  Esq. 
John  Bbdce,  Esq. 
SmsLET  Bbooxs,  Esq. 
J.  Bdktt,  Esq. 
W.  D.  Chbistib,  Esq. 
J.  P.  CoLLiBB,  Esq. 
W.  D.  CoontB,  Bw. 
Bolton  Cormkt,  Esq. 
F.  CuinniiOBAM,  Esq. 
B«v.  T.  Cdsssb. 
Ht.  Hon.  J.  W.  CaoBBE. 
J.  CBOSII.ET,  Esq. 
Dr.  Balton. 
Professor  Qb  Mobiux. 
Earl  of  Dbbbt. 


NOTES  AND   QUEBIES. 


Dr.  BuHoHD, 
Hbfwobtb  StxoH,  Esq. 
Dr.DoBur. 
Sir  HsHsr  Elub. 
E.  Foss,  Esq. 
Bev.  A.  Gattt. 
Hbnbt  Eallam,  Esq. 
J.  O.  HALUWtajL,  E^, 
E.  Eawzins,  Esq. 
BAjtva.  EiccsoN,  Esq. 
Eev.  J.  HcsTgB. 


H.  A.  LowBB,  ^n- 

Laid  LiTTEi/roN. 

W.  B.  SUu  CABm  Esq. 

Bev.  Dr.  Uatixand. 

Sir  F.  Haddbn. 

J.  H.  Uabkiami,  Esq. 

Eev.  J.  E.  B.  Matob. 

Lord  MoHBOM. 

B.  M.  MiLHH,  Esq.  HJ. 

J.  O.  NiCHou,  Esq. 

Qbobox  OrroB,  Ew. 


Qbobqb  Vbbb  iBvma,  Esq.    Qeobob  Ohbbod,  Esq, 


Eev.  JoHX  Jb:    . 
DouQiAB  Jbbbols,  Esq. 
Tbokas  EmasiuT,  Eeq. 
Bev.  Dr.  Ebhkbdt. 
Bev.  L.  B.  Labxino. 
Bt.  Eon.  Sir  Q.  C.  Lhwib. 


Wllliam  Pinxbqtoh,  Esq. 
J.  B.  PUNCHB,  Esq, 
E.  F.  Bi]CBAin.T,  Esi^. 
Bev.  Dr.  Boox. 
Eail  of  Soastbsbuby. 


5.  W.  SmoHB,  Esq. 
E.  SioBB^  Esq. 

A.  STzmuTi,  Esq. 
Qbobob  STBFinns,  Esq. 
H.  E.  SrBicxi.AKi>,  Esq. 
Sir  J.  E.  TBMirKMT. 
ProfuBOT  Trovpson. 
W.  J.  Tboms,  Esq. 

B.  TaOBFB,  Esq. 

Bev.  J.  H.  ToBD,  D.D. 
Sir  W.  C.  TaBTBLTAH,  Bart. 
T.  E.  TvBKBB,  Esq. 
Bev.  Ebsbt  Waltbb. 
Albert  Wat,  Esq. 
ButiAHiK  B.  WuTiN,  Esq. 
W.  Yabbbu,  E^. 
J,  YaowBU,  Esq. 


RECENT  OPINIONS  OF  THE    PRESS. 

'  tbi  intwesting  mnning  oommentaty  with  which  Vtyata  and  Qubbibs  accomponj  erer;  currant  topic  d 
Uttnxj  interest.'  Satcbdat  Bevhw,  April  14,  ISSS. 

'  That  nseM  nansdUnt  of  dead  knowledge,  jclept  Nona  and  Qcxbibb,  the  antiqaBries'  newspaper.' 

QCABTEBLT  BxTIBW,  No.  ISl,  p.  329. 

'  These  two  Tolnmes  (fbr  1864)  overflow  with  cnrions  scraps  ot  ont^jf-tlie-waj  learning,  contributed  by  maay 
of  the  best  scholars  of  the  day,  and  there  are  few  branches  of  utcratnie  to  which  they  do  not  Aimish  noma  new 
and  amnsing  iUaEtnttion.  There  English  History  has  been  illostrated  by  the  cnriooa  conlsmponuy  narrative  of 
James  II.  at  Fevershani,  p^era  respecting  Cromwell's  head,  the  signet  attributed  to  Uaiy  Queen  of  Scots,  and  a 
host  of  similar  articles.  The  Eossip  of  lost  century  ia  iUnstiated  by  the  curious  story  of  Charles  Fox  and 
Mrs.  Qrieve.  Lord  Stanhope  snows  what  ware  the  last  books  read  b;  Xi.  Pitt.  The  charge  node  by  Lord 
Campbell  agunst  Bacon,  in  connection  with  the  authorship  of  the  "  Paradoxes,"  is  disproved  by  the  discovery  of 
their  real  author.  The  Defoe  Letters  startled  the  admirem  of  that  extraordinary  writer.  The  question  of  the 
assumption  of  names  and  arms,  which  has  recently  ezcit«d  so  much  attention,  is  discussed  at  considerable  length. 
The  story  of  Quenten  Matsys  and  his  picture  ot  the  "  Uisers "  is  critically  examined,  fihakespere's  life  and 
writingB  form  the  snliject  of  a  variety  of  articles,  and,  in  short,  old  poetry,  baUads,  fblk-Iore,  popnbr  aotJqnitiee, 
topography,  bibliography,  literary  hutory,  all  alike,  have,  during  the  past  fear,  ftinuBbed  new  materials  to  this 
weekly  journal  to  justify  the  chaiacter  so  well  beislowed  upon  it,  of  its  being  at  the  same  time  learned,  ehaUy, 
and  mtal.'  MoBtnMO  Post. 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES 

Is  published  every  Saturdajr,  price  44., 

It  is  also  issued  in  Monthly  Parts ;    and  in  Half-Tearly  Volumes,  each  with  copious  Index, 
price  lOt.  6d.  cloth  boaxds. 

Jn  tOTittquenet  of  Iht  abaliUoii  of  tie  imprentd  Ncwtpaper  Stamp,  Ote  SoBScenrtOH /or  Oopie*,  forwarded  free  by 
Poit  dinet  from  tha  Puhlulier  (intiu^ng  tht  Eau-Ysablt  Indbx),  it  now  lOs.  Zd.,  vAiek  may  be  paid  by 
Pail'Office  Order  payable  at  tie  Someriel  Houie  Pott-Oguie  to  Wuxiul  QBBia  SuTH,  ll  WeUityton 
Street,  W.C.  

irOTES  and  QUEEIEB  may  be  pToanred  bj  oid«r  of  svery  Bookieller  and  Hewsmaa,  or  of  the  PnbUihsr, 

W.  G.  SMITH,  PUBLISHER,  43  WELLINQTON  STBEET,  LONDON,  W.C. 

apotUtteoed*  A  0>,  Printert,  Nev-ttrttt  Squara,  London. 


*^  S.  VIL  Jas.  7, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


23 


Thb  Sok8  "Do¥fli*fl"  (4'»  S.  \i.  603.)— This 
aoaa  bos  Also  becD  aet  to  muaic  bj  Clara  Bell  (not 
I  *<  Curibet "),  and  waa  published  ux  or  more  years 

I  dnce.     I   bave  Twnly   endesTOured   to   find   by 

!  whom.    Can  any  reader  nasiat  me?    I  have  it  in 

I  TDannaeript,  and  most  of  my  fiieads  prefer  it  to 

I  I^y  Scott  3  rendering.    In  each  case  the  worda 

f  ar«  somewhat  altered  from  the  origioal  a>  puV 

I  lished  at  p.  2^  of'Foemi,  by  the  author  of  J<An 

[  SdA/ar,  where  it  ia  headed  "  Too  late,"  followed 

by  toe  line 

"  Dowglu,  Dowglu,  tendir  ind  tran." 

Jaues  Brittev. 

Old  Cekistmas  Caxol  (4"'S.  vi.  506.)— Mb. 

Patbb  is  evidently  not  awnre  that  the  Latin 

Ieong,  of  which  he  givea  only  the  first  three  verses, 
appeared  entire  in  "  N.  &  Q."  (i"  S.  ii.  657).  It 
was  sent  by  me,  apropoe  of  an  old  Latin  poem  of 
A  somewhat  similar  uind  sent  by  Mr.  Hazlitt 
(l"  S.  ii.  390^.  As  the  first  three  Terses  diifer 
eonmderably  in  my  copy  from  those  sent  by  Mb. 
Patke,  it  is  more  than  probable  that  the  sue- 
ceedintr  verses  are  as  much  at  variance  in  our 
respective  copies.  I  will  here  repeat  merely  the 
first  three  as  I  have  always  heard  them :  — 
"  Die  mibl,  quid  lit  unm  ? 

Uniu  Mt  Tenia  Dens,  qni^regnat  in  ccclii. 
•■  Die  mihi,  rinid  fdnt  dao  ? 
Daa  tabula  Uojtns : 
Kqus  at  venu  Dena,  qui  t^nat  in  MoUs. 
"  Die  mihi,  qaid  sint  tra»  ? 
Tn-B  PatriarchK. 
DiiiG  tabals  Moysis  i 

liuos  est  vena  Deni,  qui  regnsl  In  ecBlis." 
i  The  reader  ia  referred  for  the  nine  succeeding 

t  Terses  to  "  N.  &  Q,"  at  the  above  reference. 

'  I  am  no  Sanscrit  scholar,  and  know  nothing  of 

Indian  literature.  But  I  have  seen  a  Hebrew 
poem,  or  song  of  rimilar  construction,  though  not 
on  a  sacred  subject,  but  more  resembhng  our  well- 
known  ■■  House  that  Jack  built."  Indeed  these 
songs,  made  to  be  repeated  backwards  at  the  end  of 
etch  verse,  seem  to  have  been  favourite  composi- 
tions in  all  ages  and  countries.  The  Hebrew  song 
tarns  upon  a  kid,  and  ia  pretty  evidently  the 
i  original  model  of  our  "House  that  Jnck  built." 

I  I  saw  it  in  private  possession;  but  a  translation 

1  ia  given  in  Halliwell's  Nursery  Bhyma,  together 

I  with  some  others  of  a  similar  character,  including 

I  the  famous  story  of  the  "  Old  Woman  and  her 

I  Rg."  This  last,  however,  is  not  well  given.   The 

dit^  as  I  always  heard  it  in  childhood  is  far 
better,  but  I  fear  hardly  worth  insertion  in  the 
I  P*gM  o^  "^'-  &  Q'l"  though  I  should  willingly 

send  it,  if  desired.  F.  C.  II. 

N.  F.  HiTH's  "HuioBT  OF  Mttbio"  (4'"  8. 
vi.  93.)— It  seems  that  Haym's  Bistory  of  Munc 
WH4  originally  written  in  Italian,  and  in  1730 
propoaals  were  mftde  for  publishing  the  work  in 


English.  It  ia  exceedingly  doubtful  if  any  MS. 
of  the  English  translation  ever  existed.  Chal- 
mers tells  us  Haym  died  in  March  1730,  and  that 
bis  effects  were  sold  by  public  auction  shortly 
after  that  event  If  so,  an  inspection  of  the 
auction  catalogue  might  throw  some  light  upon 
the  subject.  An  impression  of  the  portraits  of 
Tailis  and  Byrd  in  one  plate,  engraved  for  Haym's 
work,  is  in  my  possession.  It  is  probably  unique, 
and  much  valued  by        Eswasd  F.  Bimbadlt. 

Irish  Cab  and  Nocnr  (4**  8.  vi.  545.)— If 
Mh.  Llotd  consults  "  N.  &  Q."  3'^  S.  vi.  115, 110, 
he  will  find,  I  think,  all  the  information  he  rs< 
quires.  I  sent  the  patdculata  in  reply  to  a  similar 
inquiry  from  A.  T.  L.  Abhda. 

"  The  BiriBE  End  "  (4"'  S.  vi.  340,  427,  610.) 
I  did  not  mean  that  this  phrase  was  uogromm.i- 
tical  or  nonsenucal,  but  that  it  was  silly  in  the 
conueiion  in  which  it  aeems  always  to  he  used 
with  us.  It  ia  always" said  of  a  war,  or  of  some- 
thing of  which  the  whole  course  ia  bitter  or  evil 
as  well  as  the  end ;  indeed  the  end  of  a  war  or 
the  like  ia  surely  Us*  bitter  than  the  rest  of  it; 
whereas  the  whole  point  of  the  passage  in  the 
Proverbs  is  the  contrad  between  tne  ways  of  the 
woman  and  the  end  of  them.  Littrlion. 

I  venture  to  submit  the  following  explanation 
of  this  phrase :  A  war  carried  on  to  "  the  bitter 
end"  is  a  war  carried  on  "  to  the  death."  The 
interchangeableness  of  the  terms  arises  thus ;  The 
Jewa  have  a  legend  (Talmudic,  I  have  no  doubt) 
to  the  effect  that  immedintely  before  dissolution 
an  angel  comes  to  the  bedude  of  a  ^ag  man  and 
drops  upon  his  {tongue  one  drop  of  an  intensely 
Mttet  liquid,  which  deprives  bim  of  the  faculty 
of  speech;  a  second  drop  takes  away  his  sight; 
and  a  third  terminates  his  existence.  (It  ia  many 
years  since  I  read  the  legend,  and  I  am  writing 
from  memory,  but  this  repetition  is  substantially 
accurate.)  Hence  the  phrases  *  the  bitterness  of 
death  is  past,"  "  there  be  some  standing  here  who 
shall  not  taste  of  death,"  and  others,  which  will 
readily  occur  to  the  reader.  J.  L.  Cherkt. 

n«nley. 

Lord  Btroh's  "  English  Bauds,"  itc.  (-t'"  S. 
tL  3C8,  440,  480.)— The  late  Lord  Dundrennau 
obtained  from  Lords  Brougham  and  Jetfrey  a 
holograph  note  from  each,  contwning  a  list  of 
their  articles  in  the  Edinburgk  Sevteur.  These  he 
collected  and  bound  up  as  part  of  their  works. 
The  article  on  Byron  was  in  Jeffrey's  list,  and  not 
in  Brougbam's.  These  volumes  were  sold  at  a 
very  high  price  at  the  sale  of  lie  library  of  Lord 
Dundrennan.  J.  S. 

A  friendly  word  or  two  with  J.  II.  BixoN. 
Montgomery's  Wanders  of  Switxrland  could 
hardly  be  called  "  a  juvenile  effort,"  as  the  author 
was  thirty-five  years  old  when  he  wrote  it.    Nor 


24 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[i'l-s-vii.  JiK.  r,'7i. 


was  it  ever  bo  conridered  by  anjr  cliwa  of  readers 
eitber  in  Eaglaiid  or  in  America,  irbere  it  boa 
long;  since  gone  through  a  score  of  editions. 

Of  Jetfrev's  ftutborabip  of  the  review  in  the 
Edinburgh,  Mon^meiy  nevei  entertained  the  least 

If  Lord  Byron  applied  the  epithet  "  mTiug  "  to 
Kontgomery,  no  term  eould  have  been  less 
appropriate.  Montgomery  himself  published  in 
1824  two  volumes  of  Proie  *y  a  Poet ;  but  the 
work  had  too  little  of  the  sensattonnl  stjle,  and 
too  much  of  a  pious  tone,  to  become  popular,  and 
has  never,  I  believe,  been  reprinted. 

The  Chttrch  and  the  Warmiag-pm  was  a  youth- 
ful ym  (fe«j>rt(,  but  itwse  never  "famous,"  nor 
did  it  deserve  to  be  so  on  any  account :  it  was,  hs 
De.  Dixon  says,  "  considered  as  mere  fun."  The 
author  WHS  not  "prosecuted  and  convicted"  for 
publisbiDg  it;  but,  on  two  occsaions,  for  libels  of 
&  verv  different  character.  It  was  reprinted  as  n 
epiteful  annoyance  to  the  poet  by  some  unprin- 
cipled townsman,  who  had  "  his  labour  for  his 
pains";  for  it  may  be  doubted  whether  Mont^ 
gomery  ever  became  aware  of  the  existence  of  the 
reprint.  J.  H. 

"  That  Man's  Fateeb,"  etc.  (4'^  S-  vi.  232, 
288,  488.)— It  seems  to  me  that  my  critic,  Mb. 
■William  Batbs^  is  the  one  who  is  wrong  in  this 
matter.  Admittmg,  as  I  am  required  to  do,  "that 
the  son  of  your  father's  son  may  be  your  nephew," 
I  fail  utterly  to  see  what  bearing  the  admission 
has  upon  the  original  query,  which  was  — 

"Two  men  were  walking  along  a  portrait-f^llery j 
one  observed  to  the  other,  pointing  to  A  portrait, 'Thai 
moa'a  father  was  my  faOier'i  only  son,*  Wb«t  relation 
ii  the  portrait  to  the  speaker  ?  " 

That  Mb.  Batbs  hastened  to  put  me  right 
without  much  attention  to  the  question  is  evident 
from  his  introducing  a  line  which  is  rendered 
unnecessary  by  the  words  "  only  son "  in  the 
above.  The  queiy  itaelf  is  slight  enough,  and  no 
"superhuman  effort  of  wisdom"  was  claimed  for 
its  solution.  As  it  was  thought  worth  putting  as 
a  question,  I  suppose  it  was  intended  to  elicit  n 
Teply;  but  trifles  become  of  some  importance  when 
correspondents  like  Mb.  Baies  impugn  the  cor- 
rectness of  the  answer  pven,    Chables  Wtlib. 

Dr  Bonus  (i*  S.  VL  501.)— now  Sir  Henry 
de  Bohun  was  slain  by  the  Bruce  at  Bannockburn 
is  well  known ;  but  it  is  probably  not  so  well 
known  that  the  old  poem  of  "  William  of  Palemo  " 
was  written  for  Sir  Humphrey  de  Bohun,  nephew 
to  King  Edward  II.  Sir  Frederic  Madden  gives 
ceveral  interesting  and  useful  particulars  about 
the  family  in  bis  scarce  edition,  which  fby  his 
permisuon)  I  have  reprinted.  (See  William  of 
Palcma,  ed.  Skeat  (Early  English  Text  Sodety, 
extra  series),  1807;  preiace,  pp.  x.  and  iL 

Waltes  W.  Sieat.    i 

1,  Cintra  Terrace,  Cambridge, 


It  may  perhaps  be  of  some  as^stance  to  A.  F.  H. 
to  knowthataoout  nine  miles  from  Devizos  is  a 
small  hamlet  called  Maaningford  Bohun. 

A.  B.T. 

"The  Danish  Boi'a  Soko  "  (4"^  S.  vi.  501.) 

"  Among  the  remote  monntains  of  the  X.W.  people 
sUll  fbney  they  hear  on  the  evening  breeze  lunes  as  if 
of  strings  plaved  upon,  and  mcUDcboly  la^'a  in  a  roreign 
longue.  It  ii  'Tb<  Dinish  Boy,'  who  eadly  ainga  ths 
old  bardio  lay*  over  the  barrows  of  bii  once  miably 
forefathers."— VVoreaae'sDonei  and  JVorirrtjian*  in  £ag- 
land,  p.  90. 

W.  S. 

Sobllbt's  "D-khok  OS  THE  World"  (4'*  S. 
T.  634;  vi.  IfiO.) — I  have  only  lately  seen  these 
remarks  by  C.  D.  L.  and  Mb.  J.  E.  IIoDtiEiir: 

Serhans  some  other  correspondent  has  alieadr 
irDiehed  the^requisite  explanation,  but  of  this  I 

The  difficulty  raised  by  CD.  L.  is  briefly  this : 
That  Shellev,  after  he  had  in  1813  iasued  Queen 
Mah  as  a  printed  book,  spoke  of  it  in  ISIO  ^when 
be  published  the  revised  and  abridged  version  of 
it  termed  The  Dirmon  of  the  Iforla)  as  "  a  poem 
which  the  author  does  not  intend  for  publication." 
It  would  seem  that  C.  D.  l>.  has  not  reflected 
upon  the  difference  between  a  hook  priated  and  a 
book  pt^iehed.  Queen  Mob  was  printed  by 
Shelley  in  1813,  but  was  not  published  by  him 
either  then  or-at  any  later  date.  This  fact,  I  ap- 
prehend, removes  every  difficulty.  The  matter  is 
set  forth  more  in  detail  in  the  notes  to  my  recent 
re-edidon  of  Shelley,  vol.  i.  pp.  464,  473. 

W.  nl.  RossEin, 

66,  Euslon  Square,  N.W 

Old  PAcrriNo:  Chbist's  Pobibait  (4""  S.  vi. 
2.31,  449.)  — These  portraits  of  Our  Lord,  from  a 
Byzantine  original,  are  not  uncommon ;  my  father 
has  met  with  seven  or  eight.  I  hate  before  me  a 
slight  sketch  of  one  he  varnished  for  Colnaghi  in 
Feb.  184fi.  A  profile  face  turned  to  the  left  of 
the  spectator;  naii  long  and  peaky  beard ;  the 
face  of  the  Jewish  type,  much  exaggerated,  almost 
grotesque ;  painted  m  an  oval  on  a  square  panel 
small  folio  size,  with  Ibe  inscription  —  "This  is 
the  tiguer  of  our  Lorde  and  Saviour  Ihesus,  that 
was  sente  by  the  greate  Turcke  t«  pope  Innocents 
the  VIII.  to  redeme  his  brother  that  was  then 
taken  prisoner."  At  Spooner's,  370  Strand,  may 
be  obtained  a  shitling  photof;rapb  ot  a  head  of 
Christ  with  a  somewhat  similar  inscription;  the 
face  has  more  of  the  Italian  type,  and  is  probably 
taken  from  a  print  Albert  Bdtierz. 

Court  of  Chancery. 

Chubohbs  wrmiN  Rohan  Cahfb  (3'*  9.  v., 
vi.,  vii.,  Tiit.,  ix.,  x.,  patiim.)  —  A  question  was 
asked  in  "  N.  &  Q."  some  time  ago  about  churchea 
enclosed  in  Roman  camps.  I  am  not  at  my  own 
home  just  now,  and  I  cannot  therefore  give  yon 
the  necessary  reference  to  the  series  and  page.    I 


*»aTI[.  JiJi.7,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


and  othen  gaTS  instencea  of  cbuicbea  bo  aitu- 
at«d.  Let  me  add  to  it  the  cbarctt  of  Taabui^h 
(Ad  Taiim),  Norfolk.  0.  W.  Bakklst. 

VxDEBiyFB  (4*  S.  vi.  8.) — The  deacription  of 
Bedeiiffe,  co.  Kent,  in  the  Haileian  MS.,  is  incor- 
nct    It  ahould  be  Surrey.  A.  J.  j)vssjs. 

a,  Bcnborongh  Gardens. 

Sbxibwobt  (4*  S.  TJ.  602.) — I  have  neyer 
«eo  this  plant,  hot  have  heard  itdeacribed  by  a  per- 
am  familiar  with  it  aa  having  manr  narrow  learea 
without  anj  Htslk,  growing  about  lour  inches  long, 
toi  in  a  cluster.  It  is  commonlf  found  on  banks 
in  Dorsetshire,  and  ia  otherwise  called  gfiny 
■ilad  from  its  frequent  nee  by  gypdea.  From 
■DOther  person,  who  hod  been  a  cook,  I  learned 
that  it  waa  ollen  used  by  the  French  in  aalada. 
From  tbia  deacriptioo  Mb.  Bbittem  will  pro- 
UUt  diacover  the  botanical  name. 

F.  C.  H.  (Murithian.) 

"THBDantBEAisHia  Was"  (4**  8.  vl273, 
356.)— Ms.  CtriHBiBi  Bu>B  has  got  hold  of  oolj 
the  fiiBt  half  of  thia  saying.  The  complete  phrase, 
aa  I  have  alwajs  heard  it  and  used  it,  is :  "  Le 
diaUe  bat  ea  femme  et  marie  aa  fille.''  I  have 
asked  some  French  relatiTes  now  staying  with  me 
abont  it  Thej  hsTe  always  heard  it  as  I  hare 
written  it  £.  E.  Stkebt. 


NOTES  OH  BOOEB,  £TC. 

TV  SiVTf  b/  Sir  Rkliard  fFhUtimglim,  Lard  Mayor  of 

Lmtdim   m    At    T«-r$  1397,   1406-7,   iW  Ht9  \.D. 

Wrintn  and  Uhatrtited  hy  G.  Carr.    (LoDgiDUl.) 

Tfaongb  anr  l«inied  friend  Hr.  Kfliehtle}'  hu  shoim 

that  tbe  foandttioD  at  the  starf  oF  "  Wnittlngton  and  his 

Cst"  hu  no  claim  to  be  contidertd  ezdutlTely  Englisb. 

there  can  be  little  qnestioa  that  this  Boreber  Kpos,  as 

*«bave  no  doaht  a  German  critic  would  fed  bound  to 

can  thi«  iotereeUng  eiample  of  the  papular  fictiotu  of 

the  Uiddk  Agu,  ia  one  eapecially  EngUsh  in  character 

aod  ^nrit.     In  epeaklng  of  "Whlttlngton  and  his  Cat" 

w  ■  popnlar  fiction,  we  must  not  be  misunderstood  or 

tnnxiaed  to  forget  that  Sir  RIcluud  Wbittlngton  was  s 

real  peraonagc,  whose  former  existence  is  attested  not 


odIj  bj  our  maolcipal ._ 

Hm  Citj  of  London,  and  more  recently  by  Canon  LTionB' 
iBgaoioiu  mmj,  "  Tbs  Model  Herdiant  of  the  Middle 
Ago,"  bat  only  to  that  romantic  portion  of  his  atorjr  which 
ceonects  his  sacoess  in  life  with  big  world-renowned  Cat. 
Tba  wboiB  character  of  Whittington,  and  the  whole  spirit 
«f  1^  BtOT.lMing  as  we  hare  said  easentislly  Engllab,  Hr. 
Cair  lias  kiowd  good  Jadgmant  in  Mlseting  It  as  a  sob- 
Jset  both  ftvbiiHB  and  pendL  The  illustrations  which 
■a  has  (finished  »n  ia  ontUne,  very  charsottsistic  snd 
Tarr  effeellTe  t  and  the  artist  has  shown  be  ia  a  diligent 
itwlmit  br  ths  pains  which  he  has  taken  (i>  tecare  ao- 
CMtnnea,  and  in  the  variona  sscassaries 
introdaced.  The  book  is  altogether  a  vsry 
E,  and  osrtalnly  the  moat  elaborate  literary 
It  .which  hsa  yet  bean  ersctsd  to  tlie 


I»«  Librari/  Dictiomry  of  tJu  EnflUh  Latigaagt,  Etf- 
nuJosriod,  Dtriratiiie,  Sxpltitateiy,  Franoioiciysg,  and 
Synimjfmimi.  Fowultd  an  Ue  laioin  of  JoAhms, 
Walker,  Wtbtttr,  Worcattr.  owf  oAer  dUtingtathtd 
ZexicogriqilitrM,  milk  tamtroiu  imporlani  AddUiatu,  ami 
an  Appndii  conlaining  Vaealndary  of  Foreign  Wordt, 
Gloliary  of  ScoffnA  Wardi,  Clauie  lUyth^ogji.  Pre- 
Jixa  and  Affixet,  Abbreviatiinit,  Arbitrary  Siyni,  *<:. 
lUattrattd  ba  One  Tlumiaiul  EngraniHai  on  IFood. 
(Collina.)  ^ 


Gcograpijf.     Omtlmcted'  anJ  tngraied 

Ey  John  Bartholomew,  F.R.G.S.  Wilh  a  agmnu  Indrx, 

(CoUina.)  ^^ 

We  have  copied  the  elaborate  title-paga  of  these  two 

nsw  contribationa  la  Educational  Literature  at  lenEtb, 

that  onr  readers  might  judge  for  thenuelvea  of  ibeir 

elaims  to  anpport.    We  can  speak  ss  to  (lie  excellent 

numner  in  which  they  sie  got  up,  and,  ss  far  ss  we  have 

been  aide  to  teat  them,  there  seems  to  have  been  every 

care  taken  in  their  preparation  to  secure  accoraey  and 


Tilt  Life  and  Dealh  of  ifolher  Skipt 


;  teingnot  m 


■UieUd,ic.lte7.     (Peai 

Those  who  tske  sn  interest  in  the  Prophecies  of  Mother 
Shipton,  or  in  the  correapondence  on  thia  anbject  which 
has  taken  place  in  these  oolnmns,  may  be  glad  to  know  of 
thiaoheapreprintoftbel6S7  Edition  of  her  Life. 
Tke   Pirate,   bu   Sir  Walter  Scott,   Bari     (A.  ii  C. 

Black.) 

We  must  content  ourselves  on  this  occasion  with  re- 
cording the  ap[>earance  of  this  the  Thirteenth  Volume  of 
"The  Centensrisn  Edition  of  the  Waverley  Novels." 

Death  of  thb  Bev.  Cahoei  HARoofnT.— We  littla 
thoi^tbt  when  we  inserted  in  "  N.  A  Q."  of  Saturday  Irut 
some  obnervationa  on  longevity  from  the  pen  of  this 
much-respected  gentleman,  that  he  had  been  called  to  his 
rest.  The  Ven.  Charles  Ueorge  Vernon  Harconrt,  who 
was  Canon  of  Carlisle  and  Rector  of  Rothbniy,  Uuiham, 
died  on  December  ID,  aged  >eventy~two. 

Esausn  PnowpNciATiosf  of  Lativ.— The  Head 
maatera  of  various  schoolg  hsve  lately  held  a  meeting  at 
Sherborne  for  the  purpose  of  diacusaing  matters  relating 
to  their  prof^ion.  A  resolution  was  passed  declaring 
that,  in  the  opinion  of  those  present,  the  systsm  of  Latin 
pronunciation  prevailing  In  England  is  unsatisfactory, 
and  inviting  the  Lsthi  professors  at  Oxford  and  Cam- 


inted  p 


elative  to  tbi 


ilated. 


■nd  Cambridge,  snd  a 
is  andesirsble,  by  genei 
tion,  to  banish  Greek  or  any  special  subject  fi . 
grade  of  sehoola." 

Cbrohicle  of  Everts  is  1870.  —  The  Pall  Mall 
Gautte  for  last  Monday  contains  so  admirable  a  "  Chro- 
nicle of  Events  In  the  Year  1870,"  that  we  strongly 
advise  our  rsadeis  to  secure  it  at  once.  At  a  time  when 
BQch  stirring  events  are  taking  place,  and  so  close  on  one 
another,  it  la  more  necessary  usn  ever  to  have  at  hand  a 
"  Chronicle "  of  the  post  year  to  which  ready  rtfenmce 
maybe  made. 

Pecrub  Tak  ScnBHDBL.— The  death  at  Brussels  Isst 
wsdt  of  this  enxineat  artist  of  the  Dutch  sohool  oTpa 


ofpaintiiK,|(j 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»S.Vir.  Jan.7,71. 


ia  aiiaoiinced.  Bora  at  leihtjdm,  nxr  Bradt,  In  K. 
Brabaat,  April  31, 18D6,  he  itudi«d  at  the  academy  at 
Antwerp,  then  under  the  direction  of  Van  Brec  Hii 
ikilfo]  rendering  of  the  varied  efftet>  of  ai^cUl  ligbt 
mads  him  widely  known  kdcI  appreciated  in  aU  artcirclea, 
English  aa  well  as  CoatinentaL 

RoriL  Albert  BaLL.— The  Qoeen  haa  fixed  Wed- 
nesday, March  29,  for  the  day  on  which  Her  M^esty 
proposes  to  open  the  Boyil  Alhert  Hall  at  Eecuington. 

Louis  TUB  XIV.'«  WiQ,— The  Special  CorreBpoode 
of  The  Tim  at  Tenallles  adds  the  following  to  a  li 
■cription  of  the  aerrioa  held  in  the  chapel  of  the  palace 
the  preeence  of  the  King  of  Pruaaia  ;— "  I  am  told  by 
learned  Gennan,  whoae  name  is  well  known  in  EngUn  . 
and,  1  moat  add,  Wales,  that  the  origin  of  Lonla'  pro- 
digiDQS  wig  waa  not  that  be  might  impose  on  the  i — " 
by  its  dimensions,  hnt  that  be  might  preaerre  the  I 
ti'oaa  of  his  yuntb.     When  a  young  man  he  was  post 
ofa  very  magniScentcAcnJureifoJidc.  flowing  and  cnrly, 
so  that  it  was  small  flattery  for  sculptors  and  painlsn 
to  make  him'  a  model  for  Apollo.     Bernini's  chisel  did 
not  please  the  king,  and  hia  marble  now  does  duty  out 
the  cold  as  Quintus  Curtius.    As  the  king  crew  o!d,  and 
'infallible  hair    lealotera'  were  not,  hia  glory  fast   ^- 

C;d,  and  he  or  his  coartieis  invented  hb  wig,  so  a 
up  a  leaemblance  to  Apolio." 
MsssRs.  Hdbbt  &  Bi.ackictt'b  Announcements  for 
the  Mew  Year  comprise :— The  third  and  fourth  vol 
of  "  Her  Majeatv's  Tower,"  by  W.  Hepworth  Diion, 
pleting  Ihe  work  ;  "  ReeoUections  of  Sodetv  in  France 
and  Eneland,"  by  I.ady  Clementina  Davies,  "2  vols.  c. . .  _ 
8to;  "Life  and  Adventures  of  Count  Beognot,"  Minister 
of  State  under  Napoleon  I.,  edited  from  the  French  by 
Miss  CM.  VoDge,  author  of  -  The  Heir  of  Redclyfre,"  iic., 
2  vols.  Bvo ;  "  Impreaaions  of  Greece,"  bv  the  Right  Hon. 
Sir  Thomas  Wtu,  K.C.B.,  lata  Britiah  Miniater  at 
Athens,  8voi  "Life  and  Letters  of  William  Bewick  tlie 
Artist."  bv  Thomaa  Landseer,  A.E.,  2  vols.  8va,  with  Por- 
trait by  Sir  Edwin  Landseer,  R.A. ;  "Turkish  Harems 
and  Circassian  Homes,"  by  Hra.  Harvey  of  Ickwell 
Bnry,  8v<^  with  colonred  iflostrations ;  ''Lodge's  Peer- 
age and  Baronetage'forISTl,"uDderthaEapecial  Patron- 
age of  Her  Majesty  and  corrected  tfaroughoot  by  the 
Nobility,  royal  Svo ;  and  New  Works  of  Fiction  by  the 
nuthor  of  "John  Halifax,"  Mrs.  Oliphint,  Miss  Amelia 
B.  Edwards,  Mr.  Anthony  Trollope,  Mr.  George  Mao- 
Donald,  Mr.  J.  Sheridan  Lefanu,  At 

The  following  volames  (with  the  Sodetv's  die  mark, 
"  Union  Society,"  on  the  title-page  and  elaewhere)  are 
wanted  by  the' Camhridee  University  Union  Society; — 
Leigh  Hunt's  "  Leisure  Houra  in  Town  ";  '  Tales  ftom 
Blackwood,"  vol.  xi. ;  Hawthorne's  "  Mosses  from  an 
Old  Manse";  "A  life  for  a  Life";  "Kavanagh"; 
Dean  Stanley^s  "  SL  Panl's  Eoistles,"  S  vols.  (  "  Web- 
ster's Sermons";  Dr.  Vanjhans  "Church  of  the  First 
DaTB,"voLi.;  Blunt's  "Sketcli  of  the  Chnreh"  ;  Weat- 
cott  "On  the  Gospels";  "  Westcott's'  "Bible  in  the 
Church  "  i  Maurice's  "  Faith  of  the  Liturgy  " ;  Trench's 
"  Authorised  Version  of  the  New  TeaUment  "i  Harris's 
"Africa";  Forbes's  "British  Star  Fishes";  Roscoe's 
"Spectrum  Analvsis"  ;  Greg's  "  Creeds  of  Christendom  "; 
Leigh  Hunt's  "  Town  "  ;  Dean  SUnley'a  "  New  Teela- 
ment  Revised  "  ;  Staunton's  "  Chess-player's  Handbook"; 
and  Wynler's  "  Curiosities  of  Toil,"  2  Tola. 

Tun  Guild  of  LrmnATuRE  asd  Art,  eatablished 
yeara  ago  by  an  inflaential  body  of  literary  men  who 
were  dissatitfled  with  the  Llteiiiry  Fund,  is  about  to 
apply  to  Parliament  for  a  Bill  "to  diasotve  the  Gnild,  to 
authorise  the  Sale  of  the  Lands  held  by  it,  and  to  ap-  I 
propriate   the  Proceeds  .of  aaeh  EUe  and  the  other 


Fonda  belonging  to  the  Gnild,  either  in  founding  one  or 
more  Scholarships  in  Literature  and  Art,  or  toT  such 
other  purposes  aa  Parliament  shall  think  fit."  Dnder 
the  dreumstances  which  led  to  the  formation  of  the 
Guild,  it  would  be  perhaps  too  moch  to  expect,  yet  what 
•  noble  thing  it  wonld  be  (ae^g  that,  admitting  soma 
defecta  in  Ita  management,  the  Oteraiy  Fund  doea  a 


Men 


Diinisler  eff^ual   

'  it,  and  that  with 
iptjbility)  if  the  minagei 


thdrsv 


Letters  who  are 
insiderate  r^ard  to 
of  the  Guild  could 


imo  nLfluuTMiru,  vii  UBUBlvrTIUg  Ufl  piwvny  lo  lue  L.l[»- 

rary  Fnud.  We  wish  Lord  Lytton  uid  Mr.  John  Forster, 
than  whom  a  larger-hearted  man  doea  not  exist,  woijd 
really  give  this  suggettion  their  nabiaased  conslderatioD. 

Tas  HuHTERUit  Ci.DB.— Under  this  title  a  Society 
has  bem  instituted  In  Glasgow  for  reprinting  some  of  the 
more  interrattng  works  in  early  English  and  Scotiah 
literature.  The  removal  of  the  College  of  Glasgow,  from 
the  old  site  in  High  Street  to  the  new  buildings  at  Gil- 
morehill  haviug  called  special  attention  to  the  treasure* 
of  old  literature  in  the  Hunterian  Hnaeum,  the  project  of 
fonning  a  Club  has  been  levived,  and  has  taken  defiuile 
shape.  The  Hunterian  Library  contains  many  valuable 
and  intareating  eariy  printed  books  and  MSS^  which  are 
undoubtedly  worthv  of  bdng  reproduced,  and  it  has  there- 
fore  been  auggested  that  the  Society  shall  be  called  "  The 
Hunterian  Club."  It  is,  however,  not  intended  that  ita 
wo^  Shalt  be  confined  to  the  Hunterian  Collection;  but 
that  books  of  intereet  of  an  cdd  date,  from  whatever 
Bonrcs  obtained,  ahall  come  within  the  scope  of  the  So- 
ciety's opOTtions.  It  !a  proposed  that  the  reprints  shall 
be  in^ac-Bmifc,  and,  as  nearly  aa  possible,  of  the  form  of 
the  originals.  Hut  as  there  haa  been  a  great  variety  of 
^-pe  uaed  in  the  production  of  our  early  Uteratnre,  there 
may  be  difEculty  in  getting  tvpe  predaely  similar  to 
many  of  the  books  proposed  to  Ve  reprinted,  witliout  iu- 
cnmuK  an  expense  that  could  not  be  warranted,  the 
Couni^  may  be  compelled  either  to  forego  the  reprinting  - 
-■■  -  --'-  works,  or  to  use,  for  that  purpose  a  typo  of  tl 


«r,  although  not  identical  wiUi  the  original. 
'  s  to  be  reprinted  will  probably  be  the 
re  expxted  to  be  given  for  the  First 


The  earlier  works  to 
fallowing,  which  ai 
Year's  Subscriptior. 

"The  late  Expedlcion  in  Scotlandc,  &c,  under  the 
Conduit  of  the  Erie  of  Hertforde,  &c    London.  154t" 

"  Expedlcion  unto  Scotlande  of  the  most  woorthy  ftir- 
tunate  Prince  Edward  Duke  of  Somenet,  Uncle  to  king 
Edward  Sixth,  &c     By  W.  Patten.    London,  1648." 

"A  Dialogue  between  e  Experience  and  a  CourUer,  of 
the  miserable  estate  of  the  world.  First  compiled  in  the 
Schottiache  tongue  by  syr  Dauid  Lyndsey,  knight  (a 
of  great  learning  and  science),  now  newly  corrected, 
nade  pcrfit  Eagliehe,  Ac  Anno  1666." 
'he  Life  and  Acts  of  Sir  William  WaUace.    Ediu- 


A  CuiADiAH  NnvEL.— We  are  indebted  to  the  Pub- 
Kihtrt'  Circ%tlar  for  the  following  extract  from  the  Moh- 
Irtai  GiaeUt :  "  New  Novel  by  a  Canadian  Author. — We 
understand  that  Mr.  R.  Worthingtou,  publisher,  is  at 
nresent  engaged  in  writing  a  novel  which  la  to  be  pitb- 
lished  aimultaneonalv  in  Londoa  and  New  York.  The 
leading  idea  of  it-will  be  the  jealonsies  of  publishers,  and 
the  characters  will  be  drawn  from  real  life.  The  neces- 
aity  of  an  international  copyright  law  will  be  advocated 
of  the  New  York  Ring  exposed. 


The  reader  will  also  be  d 


intedw 


Bteries  of  the  United  Statea  Treaauiv  Department,  and 
ahown  how  seizara  are  made.  The  book,  itis  eipecl  * 
win  be  full  of  interest."  '^ 


ObyVjOO^ 


4*a.TII.  Ja.-..7,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


BOOKS  AND    ODD  TOLUMES 

WUTTEV  TO  PUBCHASB. 


E.  T.  mi/it^d 
priafn/  Sat  mtirrt  in  a  larger  type. 

B.  W.  T.     Enutd. 

Q.     An  HkgHimate  mm  ofkU  broltttr. 

t.  B.  m*t  rrmtmbtr  Out  we  hart  to  <wwM  &e  taitet 
ffa  loiw  eitclt  if  nad»n,fiiTmaai  ofieiom  tht  arlictti 
to  wkid  F.  B.  abjecU  hoot  a  tpicial  Mirtsl. 

Ore  CoBseBPOTiDEirTs  leill,  mt  tnal,  txaat  our  ng- 
yMaig  to  Ihtm,  both  for  their  nikeM  ni  veil  ae  ovr  men— 

I.  Tliiit  tlug  ilvtuld  trrile  clearly  and  diitimcOy — and  an 
om  tide  of  (tie  piper  onlj- — more  uptciaBw  proper  names 
ami  worda  and  phrases  of  tchick  an  ixtJanation  nag  hi 
remind.  Ife  eaitnot  laiaerlaju  loptaxle  out  yehat  a  Oar- 
mpandrtit  doa  not  think  leorth  lAe  trouble  of  writing 
rtainlj. 

II.  TliatlaalleoaamiadiimiiAouldbengixedtiename 
and  addreu  of  lAc  tender,  nnt  neceuarily  for  publicatian, 
bwt  Of  a  gnarantee  of  goad  ftntb^ 

III.  not  QooUtians  ikonld  be  verified  by  prnite  re- 
'a  edition,  ehapter,  and  page  ;  and  reference*  (0 

'■t,t!oliant,  and  page. 
,         nti  aho  reply  to  Qaeries  rniuld  add  to 
tiktir  oUigalion  bp  prrrite  referei        ' 


-  If .  &  g,"  *y  « 


qiQ  PORTRAIT  COLLECTORS-  — JoHit  Stbtso 


lUTHORS    ADVISED    WITH  h 


W. 


HARPER'S    CATALOGUE   of    BOOKS, 


FABTRISGE    ASS    COOPEK, 

MANTTFACTDRINQ  8TATI0NEKS. 

IK,  Fleiit  Street  (Comer  of  Cliuieer7  Lane). 


TEMPLE  ENVEliOFE.  vlUi  Blfh  Iiuet  Flip.  1i.  pu  UO. 
rOOMCAP^Hnd^Bidi  OiiUldH,ei.  >>'.  p«  nun. 

tUdqnilll;. 


TIKTBD  UBEDITOTB.  fee  HoH  a  PlttJei 


Cnet  DiH  cninAvd  fl 


4s 

llini  In  i«lHiHniK»h.oliTiUlivllH  Uifiu  ^  Mdf ru  >  Mirf 
boQk,  ud  tb4lriCMTeiik«mafliu»HuiUTitDanlnaaTcrfttAbI«.— Tobc 
lwiiiHMtt.CABTEa-S.lt.Mjnlm«ralMl,W.    DnwlnfrTliM. 


LITERARY  MACHINB — A  raniMkable  loien- 
I*  be«B  Htcat4d.vUch  tIII  tnaUi  ■  par»n(aFHdud 


JB.-2 

TEETH.  ludviUumi  miim  Vina,  or  UMnwi  Uier  n  pBfeilr 
bj  the  doHft  utvcrrer.  Hay  wUl  unt  tfiMge  eoliMir  ortef,  m^ 
doet  Dotnqkiie tke  etftectlM  e?Too<t g  ear  p*nnl evcntl^^ua 
Riiim  ttaeuSSi^SI  "m^^I  nil,   Smt^MUi  ■•mHuSrB- 


^  Tbe  woiaeOaa of  NoU-pB|W  of  ■  nperior kind  hajlou been  tlic 

^Si m  eari^n  Ihu^utmH  wSSn'iuSln  MUliwd i kut Ibh 
conciiukm  dM  ■«  HEB  •uMkotonr  10  Hon.  FiBmiMB  k  CooriB, 
sT  Fleet  SUM!.  «bi^MiiiiiHd  (s  «oUl>n  gpnUkH  BBdlna  Mw 
mutt  WM  ■Italsid.  Sheet  MngvinM  huju  »wuM,tto  iher 
hive  u  lut  bcea  lUe  to  Hodw*  ■  D(w  diKaipttai  of  HBer.wU^  thir 
Ml[CLiTiHniia«NoTi.[h»t«MMiiiiy7iMitaftttiaii*l»jrtli«T 
pithed  ^^n,  udVi  ntWuiea  nllT  MniMw  lh«t  ofSBiS.  I? 
ILutt  the  wrilltii  Iheiiea  pteemle  m  mMjlnwr  ttoewm  end  feng. 

We' M  Snlln'uw  >  t^^B^  uv^l^w^Mil^d  In  Iti 


joogle 


NOTES  AND  QUEKIES. 


Imj.  Footisp  Qiurtih  u 


NOTES  AND  QUBEIES ; 


BEADE&e.  lie. 


lATpoH  of  nipplfiaa 


>.  NOTES  UD  qVERIXS  WH  lU 


Xeoent  Oplnloaa  of  tile  Pr«mat 


NOTES    AND   QUEBIES 


Ika  hUlabs  (iKtadini  U 


NOTES  and  QUERIES  may  bt  proaired  bg  ordtr  rf 

tvtrr  BoolaJltr  and  Naotman,  or  ofiht  FttKiihtr, 
W.  0.  SMITH,  a,  Wdlington  Street,  LoDdou,  W.C. 


"  Leaiuiev,  CoAtTT,  XSsstxnJ'—AihitaKim, 

NOTES   AND   QUEBIES. 


Voltuna  FIva,  i 


haerlM. 


hiKllabt  xrUb.  uid  BootUab  atot«r7> 

Contnnponjv  FortnEl  uf  MvT  Qhhd  of  Scgti— GuDpcn 

D»l|niUiiiiii>f*ChWJu>u»ij<BiH<iIScolU^lluI7n- 
oJUoriniinilh-Iflltr^or  L«nl  Nr1«m-FU(lit  at  lam 


•rm£a^i^^"tl^M\ntB'lJEtt^ilir^\>^^M^^i*1 


Fopntsr  Antlqnlttes  Bofl  Folk  Kore. 

Tb<  TlnDiDnw  FUtdi— Plr  8uptntlUiiD>_Boc(uti-Tcotlll— FriiUj 
UnlndtT— PopuIai  Frucb  Sooa. 

Sallalli,  Ola  Poeti7,  maa  )hr«ina. 

Kwltiih  BallAdi— The  Mui  &>ik«-^^»hcqwuiuki. 


ShftkoncBTt  GloiAtlei— Fill  fijr  AMtumn— BQdJnc- 
Ccumtik-CrleilGiMIie— PniiliiciilOloaur. 

Oenenlocy  and  BermMry. 


GBlaibomuffU  •  "  Bloc  Doj  "— Ij*  Hqnn  Aff  tl  la  Bfnttluuic*— 
J.  Bytr  BrTiEov— Buiueji  on  Euttr  Id infl— Portr»IH  of  Qnclhe— 
Evlv  Snui<<h  PiduTli-CJilIti)'  of  CwnllKUltEk-Sltoll  Of  CtaHHy 
CUun_<Vi[:hm.  Cimi  Ilii;  An  (iiUc. 

■ooleslaitloal  HUlorr. 


OluiioBl  AoUqulUas. 

Lubuuin-tVJiililiH  on  Ronun  AlOr— Lcajimikn'  TlblM  U  Biid^I- 
enmlduil  InKripUoDi  u  Hoipe. 
Topoirrftpby, 

OlFdoniiD  Fomui  Ourlm Chapel.  F<irtimiiaUi-OM  WatmJuttr 

BUscellajieoaa  Hota*,  Qaeriaa,  kad  XepUe>< 

Tba  AmHrnrrlp  tba  Tair«— Eartj  ^citia*  of  Vfandal'^katorkia— 
— TortuiT  al  NnreintHiri— KLn  of  Uia  Vliilii— Mam'a  Harki— 
Oriiln  of  the  BuiiUHi  Clan  TmBum-Tla  Hanlict-TlH  Man  Ln  Ihi 


WdDuUnBlntLM 
•UBoiEiillmi^Hi 


^ftii^lc 


*»s.vn.  j^s,  H,'i 


KOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


V,  SATOKDAr,  JANUAsr  H 


a  UK.  a 
ibun  Chi 


CONTESTS.— N"  15B. 


Sna^'n  Uigd^nB ":  ForUaitii. 
_.  A  StoiT  and  it<  Eipsinioo  —  Fnun  Ha- 
lurch,  Weatmoreltnil  —  A.  Bill  aottudl/  Pra- 
Westmorelrind  Gunpowder-plot  DonnI  — 


Htiketh —" Bcautin  of  Bi«lainl  »nd  Wmles":  Pl«Di- 
Lk  CMBcole  — Chepitow—  Chesi  in  Ennlind  »nd  Chios— 
Omvaa  at  th*  Duutb  Court  -  Defoe  iiid  Muichutar 
—The  DoniW  JoUui*  Dien  —  Drawlogi  by  John  Outer  — 
The  Fire  BaifWit  Spire*  of  Third-Poiuted  Dita  —  Hoo- 
tej-t  SDElisb  ■•  Vithek,"  &c,  S3. 
BBPUBS  t— PoneUn  Uetnorikl  nf  Chariw  II.,  ST-Eobert 
"  -     -     -'- ■llmdCeuteniTiui.SB— Pwagemttrtbated 

, n,  ra  — Uural  tVutioK  la  BMrttoD  Church, 

lolk,  411— Biweoe'*  "  NoreUeti' Llbrair  "  and  Gaorie 
esoT  Hknies  1b  Inland -'"  God  Biada 
.dirent  Hynin  —  "  Uleroailem  !  my 
■nppie  aome  i  -  —  ■■  Pigs  may  Fly."  te.  —  Sir  Thoama 
Brvwoe:  Ircher's  Coart  —  Ths  Irish  ?l>nitT  —  Lhv:rd'a 
Iriah  M3S,  —  Puat  ProphodBa  —  lodaiea  —  "  It'H  a  tii  Crj 
to  Loch  A«B  "  — lake  Dwellinis  on  Louch  Uuch  — Dr. 
JnhnUB  — -  Ji  Cold  at  a  Haid^  Kuee'  —  A.  Nuiki; 
T»Je  —  Negro  ProrertH,  4o.  W. 
NotM  on  Roata,  M. 


to  St.tenaUin,  : 
Iforlolk,  «l—  ~ 
Cruiktiwnk  — 


BUJEBE&KD:  ORIGIN  OF  THE  STORY. 
Tbe  story  of  Bluebettrd  forms  one  of  a  collec- 
tion oftbe  popular  nurserT  talee  of  France  for 
which  we  are, indebted  to  Perrault.  How  far  he 
preserved  the  exact  form  in  which  these  tales 
must  have  been  related  to  him  hy  some  old 
cnme,  it  is,  of  course,  impossible  at  the  present 
tiBM  to  say.  It  has  been  asserted  that  the  story 
is  founded  <m  the  atrocities  imputed  to  a  certun 
<HUee  de  Retz,  or  de  Bais,  SieiH'  do  LaTsl,*  who 
fired  in  the  rei|ni  of  Charles  VII.  of  ^'rance ;  but 
the  eoormitica  nf  which  this  nobleman  is  said  to 
kaTe  bn^n  guilty  bear  but  little  resetnbtance  to 
the  crimes  of  our  hero  of  the  nursery.  An  inci- 
dent tslatad  in  the  life  of  8.  Oildas,  Abbot  of 
Rhuye,  in  Brittany,  in  the  uith  centuiy,  ctsnes 
inuch  Dearer  to  the  tale  <ii4ioh  interested  ua  so 
much  in  our  childish  days.  A  certain  Count 
Conomor  was  food  of  matrimony,  but  was  not 
dwiroueof  being  troubled  with  the  consequences; 
•0  whenever  his  wife-gave  sivns  of  liein^  likely 
to  become  a  mother,  he  made  away  with  her. 
He  was  a  widower  for  the  fourth,  or  a*  some  say 
for  the  seventh,  time, -when  be  sought  -tlie  hand 
of  Triphyna,  daiuhter  of  Count  Ouerech,  of 
Vaonee,  a  yoang  lady  of  great  beauty,  who  had 
been  oducated  under  the  eye  (^  8.  Oildas.  Both 
tbe  father  and  daughter  would  willingly  have 
declined  the  proffered  honour,  but  Count  Cnno- 
mor,    who  was  Childebprt's  liptitfinftiii  in   Hrit- 

[*  SwS.&Q.*'l"8.xii.6S^Ei>.] 


tain-,  and  hftd  powerful  friends  at  court,  insisted 
in  His  suit,  and  gave  it  to  be  understood  that  if  his 
demand  were  not  acceded  to  he  was  quite  ready  to 
ezrforce  it  at  the  point  of  the  sword.  S.  Gildas, 
wish(D)r  to  avert  a  disaslroua  war,  undertook  to 
intercede,  and  was  auccesHful  in  bringing  about 
the  desired  alliance,  on  the  condition,  however, 
that  if  Conomor  should  get  tired  of  his  wife  he 
should  send  her  back  to  her  father.  The  wedding 
■vas  kept  at  Vannes  with  great  pomp,  and  Cnn<J- 
iOT  carried  off  his  bride  to  hia  own  castle,  hut 
^foce  many  months  had  elapsed,  the  countess, 
who  was  far  advanced  in  her  pregnancy,  per- 
ceived that  her  husband's  manner  towards  her 
was  entirely  changed,  and,  fearing  the  fate  of  bis 
former  wives,  resolved  to  take  refuye  with  her 
father.  Watching  her  opportunity,  she  motmted 
one  uorninB;  on  a  fleet  horse,  and,  accompanied  by 
a  few  faithful  followers,  galloped  off  in  the 
di;«ctaon  of  Vannes.  Her  husband  was  iofoimed 
of  her  flight,  and  pursued  her.  As  he  gained 
upun  her,  and  ^  peietived  that  her  capture  wm 
almost  inevitable,  she  threw  herself  from  her 
horse  and  endeavoured  to  conceal  herself  in  Uie 
deep  recesses  of  a  forest,  but  she  was  diacovered 
by  ner  brutal  lord,  who,  with  one  stroke  at  his 
sword,  severed  her  bead  from  her  body.  S.Oildaa, 
on  being  informed  ot  what  had  happened, 
hastened  to  the  spot,  replaced  the  head  on  ths 
body,  and  by  his  prayers  restored  the  lady  to  life. 
She  was  shortly  afterwards  safely  delivered  of  a 
son,  who  was  baptised  by  S.  Uildaa,  and  called  by 
lua  name,  to  which,  by  way  of  distinction,  was 
afterwards  added  that  of  Trecb>meur  or  Tremeur. 
Sucb  is  the  legend  as  ti^d  by  the  Sreton  haeio- 
grapheis  P&re  Albert  le  Grand  and  Dom  Gui- 
Alexis  Lobinesu.  But  now  comes  a  fact,  aa 
related  by  M.  Hippolyte  Violeau,  in  a  woii  en- 
titled FiUnnagei  de  Bretagae,  which  renders  it 
almost  certain  that  Perrault's  tale  is  founded  co 
the  legend.  He  says  that  in  January,  1860,  in 
repairing  the  vanlt  of  the  chapel  of  S.  Nicola*- 
de-'Bieuzy,  some  ancient  frescoes  were  discovered 
with  scenes  from  the  life  of  S.  Triphyna;  the 
marriage — the  husband  taking  leave  of  his  wife, 
and  entrusting  r  key  to  her— a  room  with  an  open 
door,  through  which  are  seen  the  corpses  of  sev^i 
women  banging~-4he  husband  threatening  his 
wife  while  another  female  is  lookini;  out  of  a 
window  above — and  finally,  in  the  last  picture, 
when  the  husband  has  placed  a  halter  round  the 
neck  of  his  victim,  the  opportune  arrival  of  ber 
friends,accompaniedbyS. Gildas.  Ifthese  frescoes 
are  reallyof  the  early  date  assigned  to  them,  they 
probably  represent  the  popular  form  of  the  legend, 
with  some  additional  incidents  which  hare  not 
been  thought  worthy  of  record  by  the  faagiogra- 
phers,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  whence  the 
nursery  tale  derives  its  origin.  . 

Qaemaej,  Edgas  MAOCtrLLOOOi      \q 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4''S.VII.  Jak.  H.  1 


TTNDAUi'S  SEW  TESTAMENT,  FTNESSHED  IN 
THE  TERE  1S86.' 

Tbu  ia  no  doubt  the  iRst  New  TeBtnment  cor- 
rected by  the  tmiBlator,  as  his  mut^rrdom  took 
pUce  in  the  year  1536.  The  text  U  considerably 
altered  from  the  edition  of  1534.  This  is 
shown  at  p.  190  of  A  General  Vietti  of  the  Sulory 
of  the  English  Bibk,  by  Brooke  Fobs  Westcot^ 
Ad.,  1866. 

It  is  remftrkftble  for  the  peculiar  ortbogrsphy 
adopted  in  the  work. 

It  is  uncertain  why  this  spelling  was  intro- 
dnced,  what  it  is,  or  the  object  of  it. 

AndeTSOQ  in  his  Annah  of  t/te  Englidi  StbU, 
Tol.  i.  pp.  466-6,  after  alluding  to  this  New  Testa- 
ment,  says : — 

''  But  ia  It  potaible  that  this  coald  have  bem  put  of 
lyodale'i  occnpidon  witbin  tha  walls  of  thi  cartia  at  Yil- 
TOrda  i  While  iraning  with  these  docton  o(  LoDTain  on 
tbe  one  hand,  wu  he,  on  the  other,  at  the  aime  time 
engaged  in  eanieat  pity  for  the  plovghliny  and  hutband- 
mnn  m  Gloitrriidref  Thi>  ortbogriphy  being  r^;srded 
aa  provincial,  >o  it  has  been  auppoaed.  If  the  conjectora 
he  well  founded,  and  Tyndale  bimidf  had  to  do  with  this 
odition,  it  ia  bnt  seldom  that  in  the  history  of  any  man 
inoh  an  instance  of  the  true  sublime  can  be  prodnced. 
The  book  has  never  been  anigned  )o  any  An  twerp  printer; 
bat  if  Tyndde  oslr  furnished  a  liit  of  words,  to  be  am- 
ployed  whenever  th^  occarred  in  the  trtoslatioD,  the 
rolame  could  have  been  printed  in  Holland  or  any  other 
place  In  Brabant." 

This  sublime  conjecture  require*  evideoce  tosbow 
that  it  is  well  founded,  and  if  a  list  of  words  was 
^ven  by  Tyndale,  the  compontor  did  not  follow 
it  whenever  the  words  occnr — for  many  of  the 
words  so  peculiarly  spelt  occnr  bat  seldom,  others 
more  often,  some  nequently,  and  othera  generally. 

I  have  made  a  list  of  about  300  words  ezbi- 
Iriting  this  spelling.    These  are  an  example : — 

1686.  1684. 


aboede 

abode 

faelve 

fayle 

abroad 

abrod 

faeJnt 

hvDt 

abstayne 

gaceinge 

g^nge 

S^' 

abyde 
blvnd 

gaeve 
gaeyo 

gave 
gaye 

boedy 

body 

graece 

grace 

bo^e 

boka 

huBt 

hast 

boddely 

boldely 

haestily 

hastily 

choeK 

haet 

hate 

a 

haethand 

bath 

cloVe 

heath 

doethe 

clothe 

haeve 

have 

eoelde 

eolde 

h Be Ben 

haven 

code 

cole 

maed 

mad 

coetc 

maede 

made 

d»ey 

day 

niiake 

make 

decevable 

makynge 

deoaeve 

maslera 

dekaeye 

dekei-e 

maey 

raele 

H«h 

naedeth 

nedeth 

faelaly 

falalye 

naked 

*  Thia  ia  part  of  the  second  tllle.  Vo  copy  is  knovn 
with  a  title  or  imprint.  The  place  wbereit  waa  printed, 
by  whom,  or  Uie  year,  is  unknown. 


16S5. 
oelde 

paeyer  payrc 

paeyne  payne 


^ 


taeeklyuge     tacklynge 


waked 


wdke 


The  second  column  is  the  spelling  in  the  New 
Testament  of  1634,  and  sbowa  how  deugnedly  it 
has  been  altered. 

If  any  of  your  readers  can  give  any  explana- 
tion or  information  on  thia  subject,  or  snow  where 
such  spelling  has  been  used  at  any  time,  either  in 
print  or  M8.,  I  shall  be  much  obliged  by  a  commu- 
nication being  mcide  to  roe.  I  belieTe  no  Bible 
or  any  other  New  Testameot  exhibits  such  spell- 
ing, especially  with  I  after  a  Towel. 

It  is  much  desired  that  the  object  should  be 
known  which  Tyndale  had  in  denating  so  much 
from  the  spelling  then  in  uae,  and  that  of  his  pre- 
vious edition  of  1534.  But  if  Tvndale  did  not 
direct  this  edition  to  be  so  priotea,  most  not  this 
spelling  have  been  dengnedty  introduced,  though 
irregularly  used,  by  Uie  person  who  superintended 
the  edition  P  Funois  Frt. 

Catham,  Bristol. 


SIGNIFICATIVE  NAMES. 

It  has  often  struck  me  as  a  blemish,  and  some- 
times Bs  an  absurdity,  that  novelists,  poets,  and 
diamatiats  Hhould  so  irequentlv  adopt  names  sig' 
nificative  of  character.  Sucn  a  practice  often 
"  lets  the  cat  out  of  the  bag,"  and  enables  us  to 
guess  at  the  lUnotietnent  of  a  etory.  In  a  farce  or 
in  an  autobiographical  form  of  late,  where  tha  lead- 
iug  personage  is  so^,  we  may  excuse  or  even 
tolerate  Steady,  Diddler,  Greedy,  Qraball,  Pry, 
MulSncap,  Easy,  and  such  like.  But  where  the 
hero  ia  a  family  man  or  woman,  the  adoption  o! 
such  names  becomes  in  general  an  absurdity. 
There  is  no  objection  to  "  Mrs.  Malaorop  " ;  but 
if  that  learned  lady  had  posaessad  relatives  who 
figured  as  dramatis  persona  and  spoke  good 
"  tdng'B  ikiglish,"  the  name  so  appropriate  to  her 
wonll  have  been  an  absurdity  for  them.  Sheridan 
certainly  erred  when,  in  the  School  for  Scandal, 
he  adopted  thenameof  "Surftice"}  itwasa  good 
one  for  that  surface-fellow,  the  sneaking,  canting, 
hypocritical,  saUimental  Joseph  (  but  it  becomes 
A  bad  and  inappropriate  name  when  we  find  it 
borne  by  hia  open-hearted,  generous,  noble 
brother. 

In  Warren's  novel,  Ten  Thoasmd  a  Year,  we 
have  a  "  Mr.  Tittlebat  Titmouse."    The  name  is  an 


«•*  S.  TIL  JA».  1 


I.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


31 


•bsuidit?  nltogetber.  No  one,  uot  evea  a  Hoi- 
ton  ihop-walkar  or  a  taUymui's  cotrnter-juiuper, 
could  bftve  had  such  an  sppellatiTe.  But  wfaeu, 
in  a  subeequeat  part  of  the  aame  tale,  the  author 
u  neeeedtated  to  give  a  pedigree,  the  suniame  of 
Titmoiue  borne  bj  esquirea  and  man  of  high 
ttnnlj  becomes  perfectly  ridiculoua  and  unna- 
tund.  The  name  of  Smith,  Broirn,  Joaee,  or  any 
of  our  aumeroQS  loni,  would  huve  been  infinitely 
better.  Our  old  itandard  uoveliate  avoided  sach 
"tell-tale  "  names.  Harlowe,  Andrewt^  Qraudison, 
Tiim,  Jones,  Adams,  &C.,  are  quite  uneiception- 
able.  IKckens  in  general  keeps  clear  of  significa- 
tivee.  Pickwick,  Weller,  SnodgraaB,  Nicklabj, 
Gamp,  Brodie,  Squeers,  Dombej,  Mautalini, ' 
these  were  aB  genuine  surnames,  and  there  is  no 
impropiie^  in  their  adoption,  but  quite  the  con- 
tnry.  Miss  Braddon  (of  whose  "  sensHtioQ  " 
tales  I  am  no  admirer)  never  adopts  ugoificative 
names  for  her  heroes  and  heroines. 

The  clasiical  Dame.i  in  use  b;  poets  and  others 
of  the  last  ceatucj  were  learned  abaurdities,  aud 
of  course  thoroughly  UD-English.  Huidis  in  his 
ViUaffe  Cur(fy  has  "the  Reverend  AxUaor"'* 
Hurdis  is  much  neglected,  and  moat  undeservedly 
•o.  IJe  was  B  genuine  poet  of  the  Cowper  or 
didactic  schooL  The  ViUa^  Curate  contains 
aome  exquisite  English  descriptive  scenes  that  are 
only  inferior  to  thote  m  The  Ttuk.  But  the 
poems  of  Hurdis  are  sadly  marred  by  the  Qreek 
and  Latin  derivatives.  However,  such  names  have 
■n  advantage  otoc  Surfaces  and  Titmouiies.  To 
the  Dnleamed  (classically),  who  always  form  the 
majority,  they  convey  no  meaning  whatever. 

Stbf&ek  Jacxsom. 


-FBASEB'SHAUAZLME":  PORTBAITS, drm  1B36. 
In  or  bef<«o  the  year  1836,  and  subseqnentij, 
there  appt^«d  in  JViuei''4  Magatine  a  series  of 
cAricatiiree  and  characteriatic  portraits  of  literary 
men,  contemporary  or  recentiy  deceased.  I  have 
no  idea  whetner  the  following  list  is  complete,  or 
approaching  completeness,  or  whether  it  can  only 
be  called  a  selection.  But  it  may  interest  your 
Kaden  if  you  can  find  room  for  it,  and  I  should 
much  like  to  koow  what  additions  ought  to  be 
made  to  it.  Those  portraits  which  I  hare  marked 
*  bear  the  name  of  Alfred  Croquis  (Hnclise); 
thoae  marked  t  have  a  cipher  composed  of  A  and 
C  in  Roman  cRpilals;  those  marKed  t  hn^o  no 
aniM's  mark,  but  are  undiatinguishabte  in  style, 
■mner,  or  merit  £rom  Maclise's  portraits.  All  the 


abova  ai«  printed  on  toned  paper ;  those  marked 
S  and  II  are  on  paper  of  a  yellower  tint,  and  I  think 
form  a  later  series.  With  one  or  two  exceptions 
they  seem  to  me  of  inferior  merit,  and  to  t>e  in 
imitation  of  Haclise'a  style  and  manner.  The  ' 
former  are  without  mark,  and  the  tatter  have 
what  I  take  to  be  a  monogram  composed  of  the 
letters  W  and  R  in  script  hand.  By  whom  were 
the  various  classes  I  hare  indicated  executed  P 
There  are  also  several  extenrive  groups  of  por- 
traits. That  of  "The  FrBserians''^haa  no  marit, 
but  it  is  known  to  he  by  Maclise.  See  Theodore 
Taylor's  Thackerm/  of  a  Hwmouriat.  I  am  sorry 
I  have  not  a  reference  to  the  page.  The  author 
refers  to  Mahony  (Father  Prout)  as  harinff  writ- 
ten an  account  of  this  picture  in  1850.  Wnere  is 
this  account  to  be  found  P  The  group  entitled 
"A  Few  of  our  F.S.A.s"  bears  the  name  of 
Alfred  Croquis.  That  of  "Regina's  Maids  of 
Honour"  has  no  name,  and  differs  very  much  in 
mauuer  from  the  others.    Who  was  the  artist  9 


Ainawortb,  W.  H.* 
Beranger,  J.  P.  de.I 
BIcaaingtOD,  Coantesg  i 
Bowlei,  Rev.  W.  L.J 


Lochhart,  J.  G.§ 

Lode?,  Edmund,  t 
Lyndhurau  Lord-t 
KKnisli,  R,t 
MsRiDn.  Dr.! 
Martineau,  Hamet* 
Mitrord,  Mary  R.ll 
Moir,  D.  M.' 
Uoleavortb,  W.t 
Moore,  Thomas.§ 
MoDtgomeri',  Rob«rt.t 
MorRsn,  Lady.t 


Buckstone,  i.  B,t 

Balwer,  Sir  E,  U* 

Campbell.  Tbos-g 

Carljle,  Thomag.' 

Cobbel^  Wiliiam-J 

Colarirlge,  S.  T.' 

Croker,  T.  Crofloo.S 

Croker,  J.  wa»on  J 

Croikahank,  G.' 

CuDDlngham,  Allan  .* 

DcTmeba  r  Cwio,DonT.§    OBrlen,  Henri-. 

Disraeli,  I.*  —'■         "       ■  - 

Duraeli,  B.* 

D'Oreay,  Coantf 

Dunlop,  W.* 

Egerton,  L«rd  FrancU.^ 

Farsdsy,  MichaeLJ 

Gait,  John.g 

GImg,  Ker.  G.  R.f 

Godwin,  WiUiaaut 

Goelbe,  J.  W.t 

Hall,  Anna  Maria.! 

IlitI,  Thomu.' 

Uobhonae,  J.  C.% 

Hogg,  Jamea.* 

Hook,  Theodora  E.* 

Hant,  Leigfa.* 

Irving,  Waatdngton.* 

Jerdan,  W,§ 


'  This  is  a  eoDimon  Italian  name,  and  is  borne  b.v  at 
baat  one  patridan  bmllr  in  Tnauny.  We  find  a  ni/. 
fmtr  or  the  name  in  Florence. 

■  Faacv  an  aanoancnaent  In    7Ae    Tima  that  Sir 


BSiUnod  Snooki  had  presented  ■■  the  Reverand  Anu. 
Mf '  to  the  living  of  Fodl^-eom-Pii 
M  bM  BFpoinled  Bidiap  of  Dahonwy  1 


Snowlee,  J.  ^ 
Lamb,  Charles  % 
Landon,  L,  E.* 
Lardoer,  Dr.* 


■lof.J 
MunHer,  Earl  of.§ 
Norton,  Hon.  Mn.1 
OBrlen,  Henrj-.l 
O'Connell  and  Sheil.* 
PUce,  Francis.! 
PoTter,  Jane-t 
KDger^  SamaeLS 
Rosco*.  William.* 
Rom,  Captain.* 
RiUMll,  Lord  John.t 
Sadler,  M.  TJ 
Scott,  Sir  Walter.g 
Smitb,  Jauiea.J 
Smith,  Sydney .t 
Soane,  Sir  John.! 
Talfijurd,T.NJ 
Talleyrand,  CM.  de.* 
Thorbum,  Graatt 
Ude,  L.  E.' 
Watla,  Alaiic  A.t 
icotl,  C.  M.* 


Wordaworth,  WilUam.* 
Tydni  Pooh- Poab.oBT  man 
oTGeniiiaJ 

J.  F.  M. 


byCnOOgle 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[("■S-TII.  Jis.  U,7i. 


A  SnBt  ADD  ITS  EzrumoiT.— 

'A  Seu  Xedt  efireping  a  Priumtr  uadtr  Stttraint. — 
A  FrnKhmin,  who  bad  been  stvenl  vem  eonflnvd  for 
dsbt  is  tba  Fl«et  PnMO,  fbood  Mm»elf'  w>  mncH  (t  home 
within  its  walls,  and  wu  withal  nt  M  bimilen  aad  in- 
offensive  B  character,  that  the  jailor  ooouionally  p«^ 
mttted  him  to  upend  his  erenings  abroad  willioat  any 
spprebeoaloi]  of  the  Ibrfettnn  ot  hia  verbal  (nKacemeot. 
Uia  little  eaniinga  as  a  Jack-of-all-trada  cniAlal  bim  to 
form  nvenl  pot^boaw  connections ;  and  tb*M  led  bim 
hy  degreeB  to  b«  len  xid  leu  punctaal  ia  his  retun  at 
the  appointed  time.  '  I'll  (ell  j-ou  what  it  it,  Hounwer,' 
at  length  wid  tbe  jailor  to  him  ;  '  you  are  a  Rood  fellow, 
but  I  am  arraid  joa  bave  \Mdy  got  into  bad  com] 


10  I  t 


:b  for  ( 


itany; 


e,  I  shall  IH 

necenity  of  locking  yaa  out  altogether.'" — Smiepaigi  of 
ng  Shidf,ji.  137.  Edlob.  1824. 

Tbn  Mr.  Wcller  tella  in  nesiij  two  pnges  of 
"  Uie  little  (tirtr-ffKed  man  in  the  brown  coaL" 


"  At  last  he  bexsn  to  get  so  precioos  jolty  that  ha  did 
not  know  bow  (be  lime  vent,  or  care  ncthin  at  alt  about 
it.  and  he  woa  getting  later  and  later,  till  one  ni^bt,  aa 
his  old  friend  wos  Jaet  a  abutting  the  gate — had  turned 
tbe  ker.  in  fact  — Ite  come  up.  'Hold  bard.  Bill.' be 
atya.  '  Wot,  aist  you  come  in  yet,  Twentv  P  '  says  the 
tumkev.  'I  thoughtyonwasin  long  ago.'  > No,  I  wasn't.' 
says  the  little  man,  with  a  smite.  'Well,  then.  I'll  tell 
you  what  it  is.  my  friend,'  aavs  the  turnkey,  openinE  the 
gate  weiyslow  and  sulky, '  it's  my  opinion  that  you  have 
got  into  bad  company  o'  late,  which  I'm  wery  sorry  to 
Bee.  Kow  I  don't  wish  to  do  anvthing  harsh,'  he  saj-s, 
■  but  if  you  cant  confine  yourself  to  steady  circlefi,  and 

■lanJlDg  there  I'll  shut  you  out  altogether.'  lie  little 
man  was  seized  with  a  wiulent  fit  o'  trembling,  and  never 
went  ontndp  the  prison  walla  arterwarda." — Tht Pickiricli 
Papm,  p.  4ii3.  Load.  1837. 

Fir/.norKiNs. 
Garrick  CI  oh. 
Fbou  HEVERsnAK  Cnrncn,  WEanioitr.xiMD. 

"  To  labor  I  waa  bom  i  I  hore,  and  by  that  forme 
1  bore  lo  earth,  to  earth  I  straigt  was  borne." 

MOORLIND  La1>. 

A  Bill  actuai-lt  Pri!sentei). — 

"  The  Rev.  C.  Marriott  to  John  Knapp  ofCotosbach. 


Interpretation. — Tbe  first  wheelbarrow  delivered 
was  found  "wantiiig,"  and  "a  {he)  would  not 
do";  the  mcotid,  on  an  improTed  principlw,  wai 
up  to  contract  and  wonld  do.  The  account  is 
made  out  on  our  familj-kwjer'e  princ^ile,  of 
sbowinff  how  many  items  might  bave  bean 
chuged  for  thatare  forborne. 

MooBLARD  Lad. 

A  WEBTHOBELAin)  GOHPOWDKB-PLOT  DooaRSL. 
"  I  pray  yon  remember  Ibe  Gth  of  Noveniber, 
Gunpowder-treason  and  plot. 
The  king  and  his  train  had  like  to  be  slain  — 
1  hone  this  dav  'II  ne'er  be  forgoL 


I  hop*  yoo'l 


All  tha  boys,  all  the  boys,  let  the  bells  ting ! 
All  tbe  b^  all  the  bor*.  God  aava  1*ie  king ! 
A  stick  an4  a  sMin  for  SJneJmta'a  Sake,— 

HuTMR-KMr. 
Nov.  1, 18JS. 

The  Pbophbcim  of  Thohab  MAR'n^.— It  will 
be  remembered  by  aome  readers  of  "  N.  h  Q." 
that  in  tbe  year  1616  Thomas  Martin,  a  labouring 
man  of  La  Beauce,  had  a  priTete  audience  m 
Louis  XVirr.,  in  which  he  told  the  king  in  proof 
of  bis  mission  a  secret  known  to  the  king  kfone ; 
that  he  also  warned  him  not  t«  attempt  a  coro- 
nation, and  delivered  important  admonitdona  to 
him  for  his  future  government,  one  of  which  re- 
lated to  the  suppression  of  servile  work,' and  the 
BHDctification  of  Sundaya  and  hondaya.  The 
whole  account  may  be  seen  in  the  work  en- 
titled Le  Pa»*i  a  TAvenir,  published  in  1832. 
But  my  present  purpose  is  to  draw  attention  to 
one  reDiaikahle  prediction,  trhich  realty  seems 
now  to  be  approaching  ite  accomplishment  I 
give  it  in  the  words  of  the  aboye  work: — 

"Le  mardi,  12  mars  (I81G),  snr  le»  sept  heures  da 
matin,  -comme  Martin  finissait  de  a'babiller,  I'Ange  se 
montra  pr^  de  la  fenetre  et  lul  parla  ainsi :  'On  ne  veut 
rien  ^ire  de  ce  ((<ie  je  dis :  plusieuiB  vllles  de  Fran» 
seront  d^tmitea  ;  il  n'y  restera  pan  pierre  sur  pierre  ;  la 
France  seta  en  prole  &*  tons  lea  malbeurs  ;  d'on  iisa  on 
tombcra  dans  un  anire.'  " — Chap.  li.  p.  2i. 

P.  C.  H. 

TnoxAs  Hoos. — Aa  tbe  literaiy  reputation  of 
every  genuine  poet  sboold  be  jealously  guarded 
by  tlie  public  against  incorrect  quotations,  may  I 

'  whether  the  fallowing,  which  appeared  in  the 
wday  Review  (p.  837, Dec.  31,  18/0)— 


Satwdai/  h 


Amongst  various  readings  I  do  not  consider 
that,  in  a  point  of  rhythm,  any  altemtMB  is  re- 
quired in  this  instance. 

This  reminds  me  of  an  emendation  of  tbe 
Complma  tf  liatuft  ithKit  an  editor  iubMJtiited 
for — 

"  Can  any  following  spring  revira 

Tbe  aahes  of  the  nm.'* 
"  No  aeCMnJ^ruj)  can  a'ar  rarlve." 
Again,   in  Innes's  Bhetoricrd  Clau-Book'  we 
find    the    following  alterations    in    Campbell's 
HokenJitidcn : — 

"  Can  pierce  the  att  clouds,  rolling  don." 
"  And  eiwry  (w/beneath  Ihair  feat 


Shall  be  a  aoUier'B  ot 


.  ,OOi 


w 


*  London  :  Ltmbinl,  ISM 


•  a  VIL  JiX  14,  Tl-] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


33 


Ux.  PuiKTH  A  PBOpaEi. — In  the  nnmbei  of 
PmiA  for  April  7, 1800,  then  b  one  of  Mi.  Ten- 
niel'd  inimitahTa  cftrtoons,  abont  which  thete 
■hoDld  be  a  note  in  "  N.  £  Q."  It  it  entitled  "  A 
QlimpM  of  the  Futnre.  A  Probable  and  Large 
Importstiaii  of  Foreign  Bags,"  and  repreaents 
Eing  BomlM  of  Naples  (dethroned  in.  Sept  I860), 
napoleon  IIL,  and  the  Pope  landing  in  this 
oonntcy  in  the  ver;  seedieat  of  attires.  Although 
Englimcl  has  not  jet  had  the  bononr  of  receiving 
these  nnfertuBate  monaichs,  there  ia  no  telling 
how  «>on  she  may  hare.  The  following  ia  one  of 
the  Teiees  accompanjing  the  cartoon  ; — 

"The  tint  will  come  oken  diwontent 
Win  OTvrtiirinr  yoar  ^wcimnerTt ; 
Of>idJMtairiKny«arnee«d  — ' 


WUtn 


,  rebel,  and  kkk  you  oi 


C.  W.  S. 


THE  DISISTERUEKT  OF  LADY  FENWICK. 

In  the  Eteninp  Standard  of  Dec.  24, 1870,  occurs 
tbefoIIowiiiBiDtereeUngparngTaph,wbich  I  should 
imBgine  had  been  transcribed  from  some  Ame- 
rican paper ; — 

"  Tliemuiiuof  I.ad7FeQwick,wircaftlie  Bntgova- 
nor  indchiefland  owner  of  Ooimecliciit,  have  been  longlit 
for  and  recovered  at  Old  Say  brook*  in  thnt  state.  Sbewas 
the  first  white  woman  buried  in  the  state,  and  the  iater- 
meat  look  place  222  years  if-o,  near  the  junctionof  tbe 
ConDecticot  river  with  the  Sound,  on  Sajbrook  Point. 
An  old  rude  roonnment  of  brown  rtone  marked  the  reputed 
apot  of  her  sepnltnre  ;  but  mch  had  been  (be  chant^s  In 
toe  bank  br  the  abifting  of  the  channel,  thai  it  was 
dcDbled  1^  many  if  the  remains  rested  beneath.  Sixfert 
bdow  the  sarface  the  skelcLon  was  found,  nearly  perf.fct. 
Thetaetfa  were  still  sound  j  the  sknil  annsuolly  targe  i 
whilit  flu  rest  of  the  frame  indicated  a  lady  of  slender 
manU,  ndthehalr,  still  partly  in  curl^  and  retaining  its 
bri^it  pUen  hue,  gave  support  to  the  tiadltiiuisof  her 
laiii  biMlj  Therelieswere  plicediu  a  baudiome  oofflo, 
covered  with  black  cloth,  and  taken  to  (be  n«ghbouring 
coiKtery.  The  bells  were  tolled  for  her  for  the  Srst  time 
wben  ber  banes  ver«  removed  from  tbeir  long  r«sting> 
fiaa,  Arat  her  tntjal  there  eooJd  bare  been  no  requiem 
nr  the  noble  lady,  unkas  it  was  tha  war-whoop  of  the 
wild  Indian.  Her  hoiltaiid,  aOer  her  death,  returned  to 
England,  and  sat  at  one  of  the  judges  on  tlie  trial  of 
Cbarksl." 

Who  was  this  ladyp  was  ebe  the  wife  of 
George  Fenwick,  Esq.,  who  served  with  diatdnction 
<m  the  nde  of  parliament,  and  was  nominated  one 
of  tha  Idng'a  judges,  but  declined  taking  any  part 
in  the  proceedings  ?  The  Fenwicks  were  a  very 
mnneroua  and  iinluentiBl  family  in  Northnmber- 
Ind,  and  the  baronetcy  became  extinct  by  the 
execation  t  of  Sir  John  Fenwick  for  high  treaaon 
ia  the  reign  of  King  William  m.  HewBdbniied 
in  die  church  of  St  Uartin's-in-the-Fielda,  but 

*  Ba^nmk,  n  ealM  from  Lords  Say  and  Sele,  md 
BndU,  priaB^dnifMMBB. 

♦  Ob  Jaaoafy  &,  IflSK. 


Lady  Usiy,  his  wife,  wm  interred  with  Her  fiuoilv 
—the  Howards,  Earla  of  Carlisle— in  the  nortn 

aide  of  tbe  choir  in  York  Minster.  On  one  of 
the  columna  of  a  monument  to  Charles  Earl  of 
Coiliale  is  an  inecription  commemorative  of  5ii 
John  Fenwick  and  his  children,  aurmounted  by 
bis  crest  and  arms  ;  per  fesa  gules  and  argent,  mx 
martlets ;  crest,  a  pntsnix  in  flames  ppr.  gt^ied 
with  a  mural  crown,  countercharged;  motto, 
"Peritnl  ViY»t" 

An  inscriptioii,  in  tbe  middle  of  the  same  monu- 
ment in  York  Minster,  conimemoratea  Lady  Moiy 
Fenwick,  who  died  in  1706  i  and  at  Castle  Howard, 
near  Mslton,  ia  a  portrait  of  the  some  lady.  Sir 
John  is  aaid  to  hare  read  KiUtng  no  Murder  before 
engaging  in  his  treasonable  practicea,  and,  though 
there  can  be  little  doubt  of  his  guilt,  yet  the  mode 
of  procedure  wliich  produced  his  conviction  was 

I  unjust.  An  inault,  which  Sir  John  Fenwick  had 
once  offered  to  Queen  Mary,  is  said  to  have  been 

'  ever  noforfrotten  and  unforgiven  by  King  Wil- 
liam III.    Macaulay  observes,  in  reference  to  this 


"  Bat  loTtn  after  her  death,  i 


le  had  re 


rained  bis  insolen 


le  when  he  had 


le  found 
,  the  most 


by  (eiribls  proof  that  of  all  t 

desperate  assassins  not  excepted,  b 

whom  William  felt    an   intense   jjerouiim   aycismu.  — 

Halmy  of  England,  iv.  84,  edition  of  1856. 

Jons  PiCKPOBB,  M.A. 
Bolton  Percy,  near  TadcasUr. 


A'BBOEXTT'a      MimDBBHBS  —  S01[£BSET8BIBB 

TiUDinoKS. — In  the  Flat  Holme  in  the  Bristol 
Channel  are  three  "unknown  graves''  which  tm- 

liition  aasigna  to  the  murderers  of  Archbishop 
A'Beekett,  and  I  should  be  glad  to  know  on  whi 
authority.  The  legend  runs  that  after  the  bloody 
deed  the  asaasaiaa  fled  to  a  remote  put  of  Somar- 
setahire,  and  there  built  an  abbey.  What  abbey  F 
I  have  often  thought  that  an  "interesting  boiA 
could  be  made  of  Someraetaliire  traditions,  for  I 
know  of  no  English  county  richer  in  historical 
Bseoeiations.  from  those  of  King  Arthur's  day  to 


i.  TowiraBKUD  Mayee. 


'  King  "  Monmouth's. 
S.' 

Blohmond,  S.  W. 

AiroimiouB. — In  1820  was  puWlihed  Botne  w 
the  Kmetemth  Century  ...mo  StriM  of  LetUn. 
3  vols.  Mr.  Bohn,  in  his  edition  of  Lotmdu, 
nndertfae  haBd"Kome,"attribatesittoSG8eE.  A. 
Wal^e,  afterwarda  Mrs.  Eaton,  Under  the  head 
"Woldie,"  he  Mya  that  Miss  E.  A-Waldia's  sister, 
Charlotw  A.  Waldie,  who  afterwards  married 
Mr.  Eaton,  wrote  the  book.  AIQbone  givea  Misa 
Chai^otta  E.  Eaton  aa  the  aaUkoi.  Which  is 
right  P  IvAH. 

AuTHOB  VUTTES. — Who  is  the  antborof  tfce 
hymn,  "Gnide  ns,  0  thou  great  Jehovah  "P^In 


34 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'k8.Vll.  Jab.  H,7i. 


three  of  mj  hjran  books  the  author  ie  ^ven 
reepectiTelTBS  "  Oliver,"  "  Williams,"  iiod  "  Robin- 
son "  Y.  8.  M. 

[Hincr.iDhis  Sliaeri  and  Sowi  of  Ih  Oiurch  (p,  23), 
tays  that  ttii»  h^mii  u  Ihnii  the  Welah  of  William  Wil- 
liama.  The  truulatian  boa  been  sometlmea  attribatcd 
lo  «  W.  Eniu^ED.  "  N.  4  Q."] 

HuAK  BI.&CELEACH,  aliai  HuAS  Heskeib. 
Hftr^,  in  his  edition  of  Le  Neve,  seta  down  theee 
two  Bishops  of  SodoT  and  Miu  as  the  same  pei^ 
eon;  and  yet  it  cnn  hardljr  be  so.  Hesketh  is 
the  name  of  a  county  Eitmilj  of  some  celebritj' ; 
Blackleacb  is  comparatirelj  unknown  to  fame, 
though  not  an  uncommon  name  in  some  parts  of 
Lancashire.  Blackleacb  is  mentioned  in  tba  will 
of  Sir  William  FfaiinKton,  Knt,  which  bears 
date  May  S3,  'l£OI,  and  was  proved  on  the  lost 
daj  of  December  the  same  Tear,  under  the  style 
of  "the  ReT'end  flader  in  God  Van  BUkelache, 
Bishop  of  Man."  (Worden  Evidences,  cited  in 
Zancathire  Chaatrieii,  vol.  ii.  p.  183,  Chet.  Soc.  Ix.) 
Htian,  without  the  surname  of  Hesketh  or  Black- 
leach,  is  mentioned  under  dat«  of  Oct.  31,  1509, 
by  Geoffrey,  Bishop  of  Lichfield  and  Coventry, 
as  Bishop  of  Zodor.  (Lane.  Chant.,  vol.  i,  p.  107, 
dtin({  Reg.  Blythe,  Ijchf,  p.  96.)  On  the  au- 
thority of  the  same  register,  Huan  Hesketh  was 
only  a  chantry  priest  at  the  cbapel  of  St  Maiy, 
Bufford,  in  1S06,  when  Blackleacb  was  already 
a  bishop.  In  1C07  Alyce  Ilolte,  of  Chesham, 
cousin  to  his  mother,  bequeathed  to  him  "  a  piece 
of  embTHtbery  "  which  (uie  had  made  for  a  cope, 
whilst  be  was  still  serving  the  cbantry  chapel  at 
RufTord.  In  1622,  hovever,  Thomas,  second  Earl 
of  Derby,  constituted  his  trusty  friend  Sir  Hugh 
Hesketb,  Bishop  of  Man,  one  of  his  executors. 
(Lane.  Chant.,  i.  160,  citing  Brydge's  Peerage,  iii. 
698.)     Flower's  Vuitation  of  Laneathire,  recently 

giblisbed  by  the  Chet.  Soc,  voL  lixii.  p.  80,  calfs 
ishop  Hesketh  Wiltiam,  and  makes  his  motber 
to  be  Grace,  daughter  of  Fhyton  of  Qawsewocth, 
county  Cheater,  Ent.  This  is  quite  at  variance 
with  the  Hesketh  pedigree  and  with  the  state- 
ment published  in  "  N.  &  Q."  April  23,  1863,  No. 
102,  p.  400.  I  shall  be  obliged  by  any  elucidation 
of  these  difficulties.  A.  E.  L. 

"BKinmsoFEir&UND  AND  Walk":  Pi-Aiia. 
I  diould  be  greatly  <^liged  if  any  of  your  cor* 
respondents  could  inform  me  of  the  possessor  of 
the  plates  from  which  the  plans  accompanying 
this  celelmted  book  ware  worked,  or  any  portion 
of  them.  W.  G.  F, 

La  CaSACOLE. — What  was  the  arracoJtff  After 
the  memorable  interview  of  the  confederate  nobles 
with  the  Duchess  of  Parma,  in  1566,  Motley 
gtates  that  they  left  the  room  "  making  what  is 
called  the  caracole,  in  token  of  reverence."  He 
n^n  to  the  original  of  the  Pontua  Fayen  MS3. : 
"toumoyuiB  et^MUU  Itt  eoracole  devant  ladite 
Dune."  O.  S.  A. 


CoEPaiOT. — Chepitow  is  called  in  Domesday 
Book  Etlrighoiet,  alias  Str^/oMg.  What  is  the 
derivation  and  meaning?  How  and  when  did  the 
present  (by  no  means  modem)  niune  arise  ? 

C.  E.  W. 

Chsss  m  EireiAvn  ass  Ceisa.— '^'hen  was 
chess  introduced  into  England  P  What  is  the 
date  of  its  discoveiy  in  China,  or  when  was  it 
first  played  in  China  P  J.  Wason. 

^Dr.Duncan  Forbes,  professor  orOiienlal  laaguagfs  in 
King's  College,  contribated  a  series  or  papers  on  (Jl.ess 
to  the  lltxUmltd  Laiulon  iVcwi,  which  were  ifterwnrda 
collected  in  a  pamphlet  Tor  private  drenlBtiim.  The  pro- 
feesor  Adopted  the  conclaskip  of  Dr.  Hvde  and  Sir  Wil- 
liam JoDe«,  that  "Che«  wu  invented  i  Q  India,  aod  thence 
introduced  into  Persia  and  other  A«i«tii:  regiooe  during 
the  sixth  centaty  of  our  era."  The  origin  of  the  game  U 
altogether  lost,  and  it  is  supposed  to  have  existed  for 
several  thousand  j-ears  before  the  time  of  its  introdoction 
into  Peraa,  ic  ] 

Cdstou  op  the  Dadish  ConET.  —A.  E.  W. 
has  been  informed  by  a  lady  once  present  at  a 
state  banquet  in  Detunark  that  two  of  the  king's 
attendants  wear  on  their  heads  a  sort  of  mitre, 
the  hollow  in  its  centre  being  filled  with  natural 
flowers.  Can  any  one  ^ve  the  origin  or  meaning 
of  this  singular  head-dreas,  which  seems  to  be 
an  ancient  one,  or  inform  A.  E.  W.  if  her  informa- 
tion is  correct  P 

Dbfob  AKn  Masohestbr. — This  heading  will,  I 
think,  surprise  many ;  for  no  connet^on  has,  so 
far  as  I  can  ascertain,  ever  existed  between  the 
cntton  ci^  and  the  famous  author  of  Jiobinicm- 

My  friend  Mr.  John  Owen,  who  is  a  disciple  of 
Robert  Patterson,  and  indeed  is  well  known  in 
our  Lancashire  towns  and  villages  as  "Old  Mor- 
tality," in  the  course  of  his  researches  amongst 
the  Manchester  Cathedral  registers  has  come  upon 
[try,  of  which  he  has  sent  me  the  following 


743,  Ap.  29.  Mereey  Defl>^  widow,  buried." 
The  name  is  so  uncommon— manufactured,  it  is 
^erally  supposed,  by  the  man  who  has  made  it 
immortal — thatwe  may  expect  to  find  the  "widow 
buried"  at  Manchester  a  relative  of  the  great 
novelist.  Perhaps  some  correspondent  vrill  be 
able  to  aadgn  her  a  place  in  the  family  tree. 

WuLiAH  E,  A.  Axon. 

Joynson  Street,  Utrangtways. 

The  Donsa  Juliaka  Dibz.— A  celebrated 
Portuguese  beauty,  to  whose  influence  over  the 
Emperor  Ahbar  and  bis  grandson.  Shah  Jahin, 
the  Portuguese  are  said  to  have  been,  in  a  great 
measure,  indebted  for  the  territory  ceded  to  them 
by  Bah&dur  Sh&h  of  Gujrit.  This  lady,  of 
whose  history  so  little  is  generally  known,  was 
captured  by  a  corsair  on  her  vovage  to  Terceii^ 
~ie  of  the  Amres  Islands^  and  token  to  Oonatanti- 
iple,  where  she  was  piwchued  in  the  slave  mat^ 


4»s,nf.  J  Aif.  It,  11.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


ket  for  the  Ottoman  Emperor  Selim  11.,  and  sent 
na  »  present  to  Ahb&r,  the  great  Mocbul  Einperor 
of  India,  wbo  died  a.  s.  1605.  Wbs  ths  Dodub 
Juliana  Kei  tlie  motliei  of  Prince  Selim,  after- 
ward* Jaiite-gir,  and  what  acnount  ie  given  of 
hn  romantic  adventursa  in  tiie  Ahwdl-i-Bibi 
JtMaui,  traduite  par  Edward  Henry  Palmer,  St. 
Jolin'a  Colluce,  Cambridi^.  "  NouTellea  Annslea 
des  Voyages,"  Mai,  1865.  B.  R.  W.  Ems. 

Sureno,  near  Eieter. 

DBiiwnas  bt  John  Ckbter.  —  Id  whose  pog- 
seasioo  are  the  twenty-seven  volnmes  of  drawings 
mada  by  this  antiquary  between  1764  and  1817, 
two  Tolumea  of  which  were  exhibited  by  the  late 
John  Britton,  F.aA.,  to  the  Society  of  Anti- 
qnarieain  Janel646P  They  were  valued  by  him 
ttt  one  hundred  gnineaa.  W.  P. 

Thk  Fits  Ekolibh  Spibes  or  THnti>-Foi]nBD 
Patb. — The  Suuex  Expftu,  in  describing  the 
recent  injury  by  lightning  to  Hartfield  spire  in 
that  county,  states :  — 

"  Tb«  i|nrs  ii  one  of  five  jn  England  that  an  clearly 
of  third-pointed  date,  broad  spine,  a.d.  1377." 

Can  any  ooirespondeot  inform  me  where  are 
the  four  othen  alluded  to  P 

THOiijLa  E.  WiuraioTON. 

Hbhibt's  EsoLiflH  "Vathek."  —  It  is,  of 
conne,  gBnei&lly  known  that  Beckford  wrot«  his 
AnUan  story  m  French.  Mr.  Timtis,  in  his 
En^ith  Eeewtrica  and  Eaxntricitiet,  art.  "The 
Be^ords  and  Fonthill,"  p.  4,  says :  "An  English 
translation  of  the  work  aiterwaids  appeared,  the 
•othor  of  which  Beckford  said  he  never  knew ; 
he  thon((Iit  it  tolerably  well  done."  On  reading 
the  Rev.  J.  Wood  Warter's  Seledioni  from  the 
LeUert  of  Sobert  Smdhey,  1  find  in  a  letter  from 
Southey  to  Miss  Barker  (vol.  i  p.  303)  that  the 
"  EbgUsh  translation  is  byUr.  Henley,  who  has 
added  some  of  the  most  learned  notes  that  ever 

Speared  in  any  book  whatever."  Who  was  Mr. 
mley?  I  suppose  it  is  his  translation  which 
the  editor  (Mr.  Hain  Friswell)  of  the  "  Bnyard 
Series  "  edition  of  Vathek  has  reproduced  ? 

8.  B.  TowNSHBHD  Mater. 

a,  s.  w. 


Charlss  Lamb's  Complbtb  Corkbbpoiidbncb 
ADD  WoBEB. — In  I86S  Messrs.  Mozon  issued  vol. 
i.  of  Lamb's  LeUert  and  Workt,  to  which  was 
prefixed  an  essay  "On  the  Genius  of  Lamb,"  by 
Mr.  G.  A.  Sala,  and  it  was  stated  that  three  more 
▼olames  would  complete  the  publication.  After 
the  lapse  of  raore  than  a  year,  Messrs.  Moxon 
iaaned  I^unh's  Conwilete  Qnretponderme  and  Worke, 
in  four  Tola.,  and  I  naturally  supposed  that  I  had 
bat  to  purchase  vols,  ii.,  iii.,  and  iv.  to  complete 
mj  Mt.  Judge  of  my  surprise  on  finding  that 
for  Ur.  Sala's  essay  in  vol.  i.  has  been  substituted 
a  tiiagTaphical  preface  by  Mr.  Thomns  Purnell — 


making  the  1S70  edition  of  Lemb  difibRnt  IVom 
that  begun  in  1868,  of  which  I  am  told  that  a 
goodly  number  were  sold,  so  that  there  are  many 
persons  in  m^  predicament.  I  am  informed,  on 
the  best  possible  authority,  that  the  vol.  i.  issued 
in  1868  was  edited  by  Mr.  W.  Oarew  Hazlitt.  Is 
that  the  case  with  the  four  volumes  published  in 
1870  ?  If  not,  why  not  P  Surely  the  purchaaers 
of  the  1868  volume  have  a  right  to  Imow  the 
reasons  for  the  publishers'  change  of  purpose.  I 
do  but  express  the  surprise  end  annoyance  of 
many  of  Lamb's  admirers,  who  would  like  some 
Und  of  explanation  given  through  "  N.  &  Q." 

S.  R  TOWKSHEND  HaIXR. 
Bichmond,  S.  W. 

Nbalx  iroT  O'N&ALE:  Taylor  itoi  Tatlodr. 
Can  any  of  your  conespondents  explain  why  it 
happens  that  the  families  of  the  Earl  of  Aid- 
borough,  Lord  Dunalley,  and  Mr.  Bayly  of  Deba- 
borough,  CO.  Tipperary,  describe  themselves  as 
being  descended  from  Archdeacon  Benjumin 
O'Nenle  instead  of  Neale — the  archdeacon's  real 
nameP  The  archdeacon  was  bom  in  1661,  the 
son  of  Constantine  Neale,  Esq.  (whose  will,  dated 
April  20,  1692,  was  proved  Feb.  2,  169j),  the 
grantee  of  estates  in  the  county  of  Wexford, 
Feb.  1, 19  Cbas.  II.— he  being  then  a  merchant  in 
Dublin.  The  archdeacon  entered  Trinity  College, 
Dublin,  May  12,  I67fl,  as  Benjamin  Neale.  Ho 
married  Hannah  Paul  (Man.  Sett.,  Feb.  8, 16D9), 
and  had  issue  two  dau^ten,  vix.  I.  Deborah,  mar- 
ried first  John  Bayly,  Esq.,  and,  secondly,  Henry 
Prittie,  Esq.,  by  whom  she  was  mother  of  the 
first  Lord  Dunalley ;  and  2.  Martha,  married  John 
Stratford,  Esq.,  created  Lord  Ballinglass  and  Earl 
of  Aldbotough.  The  archdeacon's  vrill  wbs  dated 
Dec.  SO,  1732,  and  administration  wasobtainedto 
him  Nov.  30, 1741.  Not  only  did  Constantine  and 
his  son  call  themselves  "  Neale  "  all  through  their 
lives,  but  various  deeds  and  documents  executed 
both  by  them  and  by  Messrs.  Stratford  and  Bayly 
recognise  that  to  be  the  family  name.  One  of  the 
sons  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bayly  was  called  to  the 
Irish  bar  in  1746  by  the  name  of  Benjamin  Neale 
Bayly ;  and  his  eldest  son,  of  the  same  name, 
levied  a  fine  in  1768.  Again,  the  present  Mar- 
quess of  Headford  has  changed  his  name  from 
Taylor,  as  it  always  was,  to  "Taylonr,"  which 
spelling  was  previously  unknown  in  Us  family. 
Y.S.M. 

OitBRi!.— Can  any  one  refer  me  to  an  account 
of  this  game,  and  how  played  P  Pope's  descriplioo 
of  it  is  magnificent  (in  the  third  canto  of  Ttope 
nf  the  Lock),  but  at  the  same  time  I  at  least  am 
ignorant  why  the  ace  of  a  suit  should  be  captured 
by  the  king,  for  we  are  told  the  Utter 

"  FaUa  like  thunder  on  the  prostrate  aea." 

J.  a  Udal. 


NOTES  AND  QUE.  lES. 


[i^S.  TII.  J*».  Itll. 


"  A  P*Bxr  ni  A  Paeloite." — In  the  Ettaj/s  of 
Eka,  Charles  Lamb  uses  the  foIloiriD;  qnotatdon 
in  his  "  Ciupter  on  Ears  " : — 

All  ralflot,  and  all  dunned." 
From  whence  ia  the  quotation  taken  ? 

0.  SxmsRTH. 


[Tbe  linea  ttn  made  up  from  ■  at 
Peter  Btll  («d.  1813),  bat  whiah  « 
laCflr  editions ; — 


But  M  voQ  b;  their  b 


u  \a  Tordsworth') 


Allsi 

Peabson  07  KiPFEirBoss.— I  should  be  obliged 
to  any  correapoudeat  who  would   gire  me  mat 

ErtioD  of  the  pedioTee  of  this  famil;  which  em- 
tcea  the  period  between  IfiSO  and  1680,  also 
Kay  other  pedigrees  of  the  saote  name  in  Scotland, 
between  thoae  dates,  with  coats  of  anng,  &c.  Mj 
object  is  to  identify  an  impaled  coat  on  an  andeut 
house  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Edinbuigii,  the 
impalement  of  which  I  believe  t^i  be  that  of 
Pearson ;  but  I  am  unable  to  account  for  the 
match  which  it  indicates.  I  published  in  the 
Oentleman'M  Magisxat,  a  few  fears  unoe,  *  full 
particulars  of  the  above  armorial  sculpture,  but 
am  unable  at  present  to  give  the  correct  reference 
to  the  No.  in  which  it  appeared.  Sp. 

Out  Peiuts  op  STTOTBHENaE. — Very  lately  an 
old  print  of  Stonehenge  has  come  into  my  possea- 
sion,  contuning  two  Tiews,  one  looking  irom  the 
west,  and  the  other  from  the  sonth.  Jndging 
from  the  coatumea  and  equipage  of  the  Tisitors, 
and  the  ^neral  style  of  the  engravinff,  it  seems  to 
ma  that  it  must  date  at  least  from  tbe  early  part 
of  the  last  century.  I  have  in  my  collection  tibwb 
taken  in  1776  and  1784,  but  these  are  evidently 
much  more  modem  than  the  other.  In  the  view 
lookirig  from  tbe  south,  the  single  atone  known 
as  the  "  Friar's  heel "  can  be  seen  on  the  right 
hand.  Other  outlying  stones  an  also  visible  in 
both  views. 

Could  any  reader  of  "N.  &  Q."  acquainted 
with  the  Kteraiy  and  artistic  history  of  this  the 
greatest  group  of  our  British  prehistoric  stone 
remains  enlighten  mo  as  to  the  date  of  publica- 
tion of  this  engraving  P  Perhaps  its  identity  may 
be  recognised  by  the  following  description.  Each 
view  has  an  independent  beading,  the  upper  being 
"  A  Prospect  of  Stonehenm  ftom  the  West,"  and 
the  lower  "  A  Project  (f  Stoaebenge  from  the 
South."  In  a  white  line  between  the  two  views 
ia  printed :  "  Sold  by  Henry  Overton  at  y*  White 
Hotae  without  Newgate,  London."  In  the  lower 
view  the  artist's  name  is  pven  as  "  D.  Loggan 
dolin.  et  eicndit."       Edwin  DtmsiK,  F.R.A.S. 


MS.  Notes  nc  RALsieH's  Hist.— In  "  N.  &  Q." 
of  Oct.  30, 1869,  p.  360,  a  oorvespondent,  W.  C.  K, 
^tves  some  very  interesting  extrada  &om  MS. 
marginalia  in  a  copy  of  R^eigh's  HUioru  ef  tke 
World,  1614.  WouH  W.  C.  B.  very  kindly 
allow  me  to  see  this  volume  P 

J.  O.  Haiuwxll. 

HraioKT  OP  St.  Pancras. — Mr.  ^TOliam  D. 
Leathart  left  a  MS.  in  two  volumes,  of  a  histoiy 
of  tbe  parish  of  Saint  Paucras,  in  the  county  of 
Middlesex.  Mr.  W.  D.  Leathart  died  in  the  year 
1663.  Could  anj[  of  your  readen  inform  me  in 
whose  custody  this  MS.  is  now  P      R.  Wadoh. 

Invasioit  op  SwrrzEKLAUD  bt  the  Ek6LISh. 
In  the  Book  of  Datee,  1663,  p.  375,  it  is  stated 
that  "  in  1375'  the  Swiss  repelled  an  invasion  of 
the  English  bands."  In  a  MS.  note  in  my  pos- 
session it  is  incidentally  mentioned  that  "  in  1375 
levan  ab  Einion  ab  Gruffydd  led  an  army  through 
Germany  into  Switzerland.''  I  presume  that 
these  two  statements  allude  to  the  same  invasion. 
I  have  looked  into  a  dozen  historical  works,  but 
I  can  find  no  leference  whatever  to  it  I  desire, 
theiefore,  to  know  where  a  detailed  account  of  it 
may  be  found,  together  with  that  of  the  circnm- 
Btannes  which  occasioned  it,  as  well  as  of  its  ra- 
sulL  QLkV. 

Latin  RnnnNQ  Poeu  on  Wbathkbcocks, — 
Readera  of  Mr.  George  Macdonald's  new  story  in 
St.  Fault,  if  they  are  alio  students  of  "  N.  4'Q," 
will  have  perceived  how  closely,  in  the  convena— 
tion  on  weathercocks  in  chap.  zii.  he  fbllows  the 
curious  Latin  rhyming  poem  communicated  bv 
Cleeicub  (D)  in  June,  1B67.  I  am  glad  to  call 
attention  to  this  poem,  as  I  wish  to  adc  if  tjra 
entire  composition  ia  to  be  found  in  any  acces^ble 
printed  book.  Ws.  J,  Loptik. 

Whale's  Km  at  Soekehto. — Breath  the  par~ 
tico  of  a  churah  at  Sorrento  there  hanga  a  rio  of 
a  whale,  wiiose  hietory  I  was  unable  to  ascertain, 
the  only  person  said  to  be  acquainted  with  it 
being  absent.  The  foUowiag  is  a  literal  copy  of 
an  inscription  upon  a  stone  tablet  fixed  to  the  wall 
opposite  the  rib.    Antonini  was  bishop  of  Sor- 

■"  Roipin  hinc  ceti  eoslum, 
Admirari  mineala 
HlodivtAntoDlninntii 
Ubi  nalnni  e  ventn  lenatain 
Matri  vndidh 

Ibi  vetTum  perdidit  ati^oc  dedit 
Pia  todalltu  in  tropbnsDm  erezH." 
Can  any  of  yourinadeis  throw  light  upon  tbe 
subject  P  W.  RB. 

Bath. 


^byCiOOC^IC 


i"-  S.  VII.  JiS.  H,  ■ 


NOTES  ANJ)  t^JEKIBS. 


-37 


PORCELAIX  MEMORIAL  OF  CHAItLES  II. 

(4*  S.  tL  501,578.) 
It  ia  impossible,  wiiliout  seeing-  the  dishes  in 
qaeation,  and  even  then,  to  say  with  certainty 
where  they  were  made,  but  1  would  attribute 
the  one  mentioned  by  W.  ¥.  H.  to  be  made  in 
Staffordshire  rathet  than  Fulhadi.  Indeed  there 
an  no  dishes  of  that  kind  which  we  can  positively 
Bay  were  made  at  Fulham,  whereas  we  have 
several  of  Staffordshire  manufacture.  Besides, 
John  Dwight's  first  patent  ia  dated  1671,  and  it 
(Ueerte  he  hath  "  sett  up  at  Futbam  several  new 
manufactories."  This  throws  the  dish  of  F.  S.  A., 
dated  ICeO,  out  of  the  record  altogether.  In  1C84 
Bwight  of  Fulham  got  hie  patent  renewed  for 
fourteen  Tears  more,  and  what  he  makes  is  thua 
described  in  it  :— 

"  Sererall  oev  manufiictiirGS  or  cartlienwues,  called  bf 
the  Dam»  of  wbite  piTgee  (pitcbeis),  maibled  porcelluie 
veuels,  nUtBH,  uid  figure*,  and  Sne  etoae  gorges  aad  vee- 
•dl»,  never  before  mule  in  Eugland  or  elKwhere ;  and 
aUoe  diicorered  ^  mystery  of  transpareDt  poTceUane,  and 
opaeona  redd  and  dar^e  coloured  paroelUae  or  abina,  and 
Peraiaa  wuea,  and  the  mytlcry  of  tbe  Cologne  or  atone 


the  German  or^  itself,  but  a  well-infoimad  a 
eaa  aow  readily  distinguish  it,  and  refer  it  to  its 
angtoal  source.  Some  years  ago  Mr.  Beynolda 
purchased  a  moet  interesting  collection  of  the 
«Bily  prodnctitms  of  the  Fulhun  manufactory.  It 
^tmeieted.  of  about  twenty-five  specimens,  wiiich 
had  been  preserved  by  aucceeuve  members  of  the 
Dwight  family  u  heirlooms  since  the  period  of 
tbeii  Bunofaetun,  and  were  sold  by  the  laat  re- 
preaenUlive,  but  there  waa  not  a  di^  smonget 
the  lot 

Dr.  Plot,  in  hU  A'aiural  HUlary  of  Oi/orMire, 
(Oiford,  1677),  tells  ue  that  ;— 


It  Gilotcue  wBie  (auch  aa  d'Alra  baltfes,jagg.DOK- 
ICiiu),  heretolDrQ  only  made  in  Germaoy,  and  by  the  Dutch 
ttrought  over  iotoEiiglaad  ia  gnat  quantities;  and  hath 
■et  up  a  maonfactore  of  the  s»nx,  which  (by  meChoda 
and  e«itrivaacea  ofbia  oiru,  altogether  uulike  those  used 
by  the  lienttana),  in  tbtee  or  four  yean'  time,  he  hath 
bnmght  U  to  gnatcr  perf«ction  than  it  has  attaioed 
wbeie  it  bath  been  nsa]  for  nusy  agee,  iuaouiueh  that  the 
eomp«DT  of  glass-wllers  of  Loudon,  irho  are  the  dealers 
'       '    "  ■■■  r.  hate  contracted  with  the  inventor 

S^gllth  manufoctuts,  BDd  nfose  ttie 

There  an  do  Fnlluun  dishes  noted  whose  dates 
■adoMceaa  of  mantif^etMie  have  any  resemblance 
to  ttat  mMtioned  by  W.  F.  R.,  but  ^are  ne 
Mveral  Staffordslur*  ones.  Shaw'i  CAmusfry  of 
r*tUrf  taUs  » t^  TboioM  Taft  <ua  &  Sld&fd- 


shire  potter  about  1680,  and  a  large  earthenware 
dish,  bearing  his  name  on  the  border  thereof,  is  in 
the  Geological  Museum.  It  has  in  the  centre  a 
lioD  crowned ;  the  grotind  is  buif-coloured,  and 
the  oreaments  laid  on  ia  black  and  brown-coloured 
"slip."  Another  dish  so  marked  is  in  the  Bats- 
man Uiiseum,  Yolgrave,  Derbyshire.  It  has  in 
the  centre  a  half-length  crowned  portrait  of 
Charles  II.,  with  a  so^tra  in  each  hand,  and  the 
letters  C.  R.,  with  a  red  and  black  trellis  pattern 
OD  the  border.  A  Ralph  Toft  was  also  a  StaiFord^ 
shire  potter  about  the  same  time,  ilis  name,  with 
the  date  1677,  is  on  a  dish  in  the  collection  of 


black ;  in  the  centre  a  soldier,  in  butf  jerkin  and 
full-bottomed  wig,  a  sword  in  each  hand ;  on  one 
side  a  crowned  head  and  bust  (Charles  11.); 
chequered  ornaments  and  name  on  the  border. 
William  Sana,  also  mentioned  in  Shaw's  Chemistry 
ofPoUenj,  and  William  Talor,  were  Staffordshire 

Setters  about  1680,  and  manufactured  similar 
ishes.  I  therefore  conclude  that  the  dish  men- 
tioned by  W.  F.  R.  wae  made  in  Staffordshire. 

I  also  think  that  the  dish  mentioned  bv  F.S.  A., 
of  the  date  1600,  was  manufactured  at  Lambeth. 
In  JUrutratioHi  of  Arts  and  Manufactures  (London, 
1841),  by  Aitkin,  we  may  read  as  follows : — 

"  It  'a  aboot  two  bnudrad  yean  ago  (about  1S40)  aiace 
some  Dutch  potten  came  and  est^bhed  Ihennlves  in 
Lambeth,  and  by  degrees  a  Utile  colony  itaa  fixed  in 

it  village,  possessed  of  about  twenty  manufactories,  in 


Ileii 


a  flounahiiig 


.uv  hands  iu  the  various  departmeo^  of 
their  art  till  about  fifty  or  sisty  years  ago  ;  when  the 
potters  of  StaObrdshire.  by  their  commetciol  activity, 
and  by  tba  great  iroprovemeats  introduced  by  them  u 
Um  qaatily  of  tbeic  ware,  completely  beat  ont  of  (be 
narket  tbe  LarabcOi  ddft  manubcturcs." 

The  ware  made  at  Lambetii  was  ptincipally  a 
kind  of  delft  with  landacapea  and  Bguxes  painted 
in  blue.     One  of  the  Dutchmen  referred  to  was 

Jrohably  Van  thmme,  wbo  obtained  a  patent  in 
676,  the  preamble  to  which  states  — 

"  Whereas  John  Aliens  Van  Hamme  bath  bumbly 
represented  to  ns  that  he  is,  in  pursuaoce  of  the  enoDonge- 
menthehalb  received  from  our  Ambaaudor  at  the  Hague, 


Kingdom,  wjtb  his  a 
rt  of  making  tiles  and  poreetaae, 
after  lie  w^'  jKaolised  in  Bel- 


family, 
aodotl 

land." 

the  HiellinK  of  the  inscripUon  on  the  Mah  of 
F.S.A.  decidedly  indicates  a  Dutch  origin  rather 
than  that  of  Dr.  Dwi^ht,  Vicar  of  Fulbwn,  which 
Lyaons,  in  his  Enmrtni,  says  he  was;  and  hia 
death  is  Utne  ttoticed  in  tiie  obituary  of  the  <?en- 
(fcman'»  Magamu  for  1737 r— "At  Frihun,  Dr. 
Swight.  He  waa  the  £iBt  that  fotwd  oat  tba  L 
ii«CTe4  to  colour  Mrthonwan  HbcUofti'* 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4"S.Tir.  J*s.  14.-; 


TtieTs  ue  Mine  verj  curious  mtittets,  to  the 
atudent  of  cenmic  vue,  connected  irith  the 
Lambeth  pott«rj,  but  apsce  forbids  me  to  allude 
to  tbem  here.         WiLUUC  PiHiEitTON,  F.S-A. 


ROBEKT  BOWMAN,  THE  ALLEGED 

CENTENARtAN, 

(4*  S.Ti.  9, 140,203,222.) 

Mr.  Oilfin  deservea  the  best  tbuilu  of  all  who 

Are  interested  in  the  queatdon  of  loDgevitj  for 

the  trouble  he  haa  taken  in  iuTeetigatlDg  the  case 

of  Robert  Bowman;  and  as  one  who  knows   by 

Eunful  experience  the  vast  amount  of  time  uid 
kboui  which  eucb  iuquiriee  entul,  I  begp  to  thank 
Mm  most  heartily. 

I  appreciate  the  good  serrice  he  has  done  in 
collectinif  the  informMioD  which  he  bas  laid 
before  the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q.,"  and  I  am  the 
more  anxious  toarowthis,  seeingthat,  at  the  riak 
of  being  classed  among  thoee  "who  are  unduly 
burdened  with  scepticfd  minds  on  this  subject," 
I  am  80  far  from  drawing  from  the  evidence 
broug:ht  forward  by  Mb.  Gilfih  the  eoncluBion  at 
which  he  bas  arrived—yix.,  that  Robert  Bowman 
was  "at  least  one  hundred  and  eighteen  yean  old 
at  the  time  of  his  death  " — that  my  doubts  upon 
that  point  are  very  considerably  Btrenrthened. 

So  far  from  confirming  or  establishing  the 
identity  of  the  Robert  Bowman  baptiaed  at  Bay- 
triQin  the  year  1705,  with  the  Robert  Bowman 
who  died  at  Inhington  in  1823,  the  evidence 
adduced  by  Mk.  Oilfid  seems  to  me  to  have  a 
directly  opposite  tendency.  Mr.  Gilfdi  searched 
the  Hayton  register  carefully  for  fifty  or  sixty 
yean,  and  the  only  baptism  bearing  directly  upon 
the  subject  is  that  of  Robert  Bowmim,  baptised 
in  1705;  but  if  this  is  the  baptism  of  the  cen- 
tenarian Robert,  tbe  same  register  would,  in  all 
Cbabilitr,  have  contained  the  register  of  the 
ther  Tnomas,  said  to  have  been  bom  either  in 
1707  or  1711.  Surely  tbe  abgance  of  the  baptism 
of  Thomas  leads  to  the  inference  that  tbe  Robert 
baptised  was  not  the  brother  of  Thomas,  and 
consequently  not  the  Robert  who  died  at  Trth- 


in  1610,  aged  ninety-nine  years,  or,  as  tomt  soy, 
one  htmdred  and  one,"  BAja :  "IfRobertBowman's 
age  be  a  delusion  and  a  snare,  then  is  also  tbe 
affC  of  his  brother  Thomas.  Botii  men  must  stand 
or  fUl  together."  I  agree  with  Mr.  OiLPflr  in 
his  premises,  but  differ  in  bis  coochision.  1 
hold  that  there  is  not  a  particle  of  evidence  as  to 
the  real  age  of  either  of  tnem. 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  Mr.  Qixfqt'b 
endeavouTsto  procure  the  marriage  certificate  were 
not  attended  with  success ;  as,  sltbough  such  cer- 
tiBcate  would  probably  not  have  shown  bis  age, 
it  might  have  deacribed  the  place  of  bis  birth,  or 


at  all  events  his  then  residence.  But,  in  the 
abeence  of  this  document,  we  gather  from  the 
tombstone  in  Irtbiugton  churchyard  some  facta 
connected  with  bis  marriage  which  deserve  con- 
sideration with  reference  to  hb  presumed  age.  In 
the  first  place.presumingas  we  mnj,from  the  birth 
of  tbe  eldest  son  in  1760,  that  Bowman  married 
in  1759,*  he  was  fifty-four  years  of  age,  while  his 
wife,  bora  in  1726,  was  twenty-one  years  younoer, 
being  only  thirty-three.  I  do  not  know  whether 
tbe  yeomen  of  Cumberland  marry  young  cr  not, 
hut  tifty-four  is,  as  a  geneial  rule,  so  exceptional 
an  age  for  a  man  to  marry  at,  that  the  statement 
is  calculated  to  increase  rather  than  to  remove 

But  IS  not  a  duo  to  tbe  absence  of  all  evident 
to  be  found  iu  a  fact  which  Mr.  Gilpir  pssses 
over  slightly,  and  on  which  his  informetton  is 
probably  imperfect.  "  Bowman,"  says  Mb.  Gitpnt, 
"  having  passed  his  whole  life  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  his  birthplace— eroeri  a  few  earhj  t/eare 
iptnt  in  Northumbeiiand."  Now  may  not  aU  his 
early  years  have  been  spent  in  Northumberland 
(where,  if  we  knew  the  precise  locality,  both  hie 
baptismal  and  marriage  certificates  might  be  dis- 
covered), and  he  have  removed  to  Irthinglon  on 
his  marriage  P 

What  was  the  maiden  name  of  Bowman's  wife  P 
where  were  their  children  bom  and  baptised  ?  for 
the  accounts  of  Bowman's  children  are  very  con- 
tradictory. Dr.  Bamea,  writing  in  1821,  says 
"  he  married  at  the  age  of  fifty"  (which  would  be 
in  1755)  "  and  had  six  sons,  ^1  of  whom  are  now 
living;  the  eldest  is ^^/ify-nme  and  the  youngest 
forty-teoen,  which  makes  the  birth  of  the  eldest 
son  to  have  taken  place  in  1761,  wherese  on  tbe 
tombstone  erected  in  Irthington  churchyard  the 
eldest  son  is  described  as  having  "  died  July  29, 
1844,  aged  eighty-four  Tears " ;  according  to 
which  he  muat  bare  been  bom  in  1760. 

I  am  writing  just  now  under  great  disadvan- 
tages, and  indeed  should  not  have  written  at  all, 
but  that  I  feel  it  is  due  to  Mk.  Gihtis  to  acknow- 
ledge the  ptuna  be  has  taken  to  ascertain  the 
truUi,  but  as  in  my  opmion  Mr.  Gilpis's  evid- 
ence does  not  sustain  bis  belief  that  he  baa 
established  the  fact  that  Bowman  was  118, 1  feel 
bound  to  point  out  where  I  think  it  defective. 

Mr.  Gir.pm's  generosity  has,  1  think,  tempted 
him  to  take  tbe  weaker  side;  but  whatever  may 
have  infiuenced  him,  he  now  deliberately  avows 
his  belief  that  Robert  Bowman  reached  the  very 
exceptional  age  of  1 18.  I  do  not  say  he  did  not, 
but  I  do  say  there  is  at  present  not  a  particle  of 


■  I  >m  aware  Dr.  Barnea,  wTitiue  in  1S21,  says  Bow- 
man married  in  1755.  vhen  be  was  nftyyean  of  age  ;  but 
Ifso,  it  is  curious  that  so  rninvTeaniboiild  have  elapsed 
bef6rs  ttis  birth  of  hia  Ant  cbild,  who,  according  to  one 
■econnt,  vu  bom  in  1760,  and  to  ■nolber  in  1761.  Tbe 
births  of  tbe  olbgr  cbildren  fbDowed  at  short  Intervils. 


4*8.TlI.J«r.  U,71.j 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


eridsDce  that  ho  did  to.  Thorn  who  support  the 
•TgnineDt  that  Bonmim  was  118  muat  piove 
"Eo    incumbit  prabatio 


aon  Qui  negmt,"  ea^s  the  civil  Lhw  ;  and  it  inaj  be 
addea  that  the  civil  Uw    '  ...... 


alio  lequired  that  ii 


proportion  m  the  anppoaed  fact  waSj  as  in 
ptional  and  oejond  the  ordinarj  na 


i,  exceptional  and  Mjond  the  ordinarj  nature 
of  things,  so  ought  the  evidence  in  support  of  it 
to  be  dear,  diadnct,  and  beyond  all  douot 

WiLLiAH  J.  Thohs. 
40,  St.  Occrge'i  Square,  5.17. 


PASSAGE  ATTKtBUTED  TO  ST.  IGNATIUS. 
(4«  8.  yi.  381,  478,) 

Mr.  Tew  doee  not  seem  to  be  aware  thtt, 
addition  to  the  seven  epistles    of  St.    Ignatius 
which  are  usually  accounud  genoine,  there  ~~ 
number  which  bear  hia  name,  but  which  noi 
univBTHaUv  considered  spurious.    Amongst  these 
ia  an  epistle  to  the  Fhilippians,  and  in  that  epistle 

ichap  liii.)  occurs  the  paaswe  referred  to  by 
looKer.  These  Bpurious  epistles  are  annexed  as 
an  appendix  to  The  Writing*  o/'  the  Apoitolie 
IhAertj  published  by  Messrs.  Clarlr,  of  Edin- 
bureb,  id  their  "  Ante-Niceoe  Chiistian  Library," 
•ndin  the  introductory  notice  to  them  the  trans- 
Utora  My : — 

■  coniiilerable  time  before  editors  in  modem 
1  to  discriminate  belveea  tbe  true  and  tbe 

..je  irrilings  sllribated  t»  Ignstim.    The  letters 

first  pnblisbed  nnder  bis  name  were  thoae  tbrea  wbich 
uiat  only  in  Latin.  TbeH  came  fortb  in  149S  at  Paris, 
being  appended  to  a  life  of  BeckeC,  Archbiebop  of  Can- 
terbuiy.  Some  tbree  jtan  later,  eleven  epistles,  com- 
prluDg  thoM  mentioned  bf  Koaebins,  and  four  others, 
vere  published  in  Latin,  and  paasf  d  tbrougb  four  or  five 
editloa*.  In  136  tbe  whole  of  tbs  pofeewdly  Igoalisn 
epistles  were  poblished  at  Cologne  m  a  Lalln  venton  ; 
and  [hia  collection  also  paawd  tbroagh  severs]  edltiona. 
It  wu  not  till  155T  that  tb«  iRoatUn  episttes  appesred 
for  the  flnt  time  In  Greek  at  DilllgeD.  After  Ibis  date, 
man;  editloDs  cameforth  in  which  tbe  protiably  gennioe 
were  atill  mixed   np  with  the  certainly  spnrioua,   tha 

sathorily.  Vedellus  of  Goners  first  made  tbe  diatliction 
which  ia  now  univenalli'  Accepted,  in  an  edition  of  theM 
ipistlea  which  be  pnbfished  in  1623  ;  and  be  was  fol- 
■ — ■'  "—  '—•■'---' —  TT.i...  ._j  Others,  who  enleml 
lion  of  these  writings 

A. 


which  has  t>e«n  continoeu  di 


Mr.  Sxtth's  logic  isrefreshing.  Let  me  suggest 
that  he  write,  in  some  conspicuous  place  in  his 
Study,  in  very  large  letters.  Cane  "petiiottem 
prineipii."  It  may  act  as  a  check  against  the 
perpetration  of  the  worst,  though  not  the  moBt 
nocommoD,  of  all  faliaciei.  In  his  obliging  paper 
lie  first  assumes  it  aa  an  evident  fact  that  I  unow 
notbing  of  "the  epistle  to  the  Fhilippians  which 
profeMes  to  be  the  work  of  Ignatius,"  and  then 
asdOMa  the,  to  hu  men  mind,  neceaeaxj  conclusion 


that  my  opinion  "would  carry  more  weight  "that 
"  Ignatius  wrote  no  epistle  to  the  Philippiaoa." 
What  kind  of  reasoning  this  is  1  wot  not.  To  - 
reverse  the  case,  it  might  just  as  well  Im  said  that 
a  man's  "opinion  would  carry  more  weight"  who 
should  declare  that  the  decretal  epistles  attributed 
to  St.  Clement  ate  forgeries,  if  he  knew  something 
of  his  genuine  epistle  to  the  Goriothians.  Further, 
Mr.  Smith  asserts  that  "  Hooker's  quotation  is 
quite  correct."  I  assert  that  it  is  noC.  "I  copy," 
sava  Mb.  Smith,  "the  sentence  in  fulL"  From 
what  hook?  may  I  be  allowed  to  ask.  For  in 
this  copy  the  words  tbS  iKtirxa  appear,  but  in 
Hooker  (Oxford,  1841)  they  do  not,  either  in  tbe 
text  or  the  foot-note.    So  much  for  Mr.  SHirn'R 

To  Mr.  R.  Mabshaix  I  tender  my  best  thanks. 
His  few  remarks  (anticipated,  as  he  will  see)  are 
characterised  by  the  moderation  and  good  temper 
which  it  is  so  pleasant  to  meet  with,  but  against 
which  some  do  so  grievously  offend. 

As  to  the  character  of  these  euisUes,  but  a  Tery 
small  amount  of  the  critical  faculty  will  l>e  needed 
to  the  formation  of  a  right  judgment.  Forgery  is 
00  tbe  face  of  them,  and  few  who  have  read  them 
with  any  attention  will  hare  much  objection  to 
endorse  the  following  statement : — 

"Verisimile  non  est,  eaa  EuMbinm,  si  ejus  asvo  ez- 
aUtisseot.  liters  potuiiee,  sut  ab  eodem,  ri  ipai  cognilie 
Mtent,  prateiiri  ;Bedetiam,  quia  vd  ob  modnm  loqaendi, 
■b  EoBsbianlB  multnm  discrepsntes  apparent,  vel  ob  ma- 
teriamdD<:triiue,iiutitatiBetmoribaspoMeriorii  Ecclesiv 
— igie  eonsoDSi,  et  Ignatiania  Eosebio  

itstione,  eaque  nimls  affectatSi  similes. 


Patching  Rectory,  AniDdel. 

It  is  not  unsuited  to  the  notes  wbich  have  ap- 
peared on  the  epistie  to  the  Fhilippians,  called 
''of  S.  Ignatius,  to  state  in  what  manner  the 
collections  of  his  epistles  are  to  be  regarded. 
There  are:— 

1.  The  shorter  recenaon  of  the  seven  epistles, 
which  are  commonly  known  as  tbe  genuine 
epistles,  which  is  tbe  one  in  Jacobeon's  and 
Hefele's   T^ra  Apoet.   and  other  recent  collec- 

2.  The  longer,  or  interpolated,  version  of  the 
van  epistles,  often  cited  by  early  writera. 

3.  The  Syrisc  version,  with  English  translation 
of  three  of  these,  with  collected  extracts  from 
others,  published  by  Cureton,  Lond.  184S. 

4.  The  eight  spurious  epistles,  three  of  wbich 
e  only  found  in  Latin.     Of  these  eight  Hefele 

observes:  "Unanirai  doctorum  consensu  spurisc 
"  ibentut."  (Pair.  Apoit.,  Tubing.  1847, p.  xliii) 
Tbe  whole  collection,  except  tbe  Syriac,  vis., 
_  _!__. f__    jji^  hinger or mterpotated, 


tbe  shorter 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[l^aYIl.  J*a.l*,7 


and  the  epunoua  epistles,  can  be  Been  in  tiie 
lidition  of  L  VossJug,  Amet.  1646,  reprinted  Load. 
1880.  Ebw.  MiBsniLL. 


MORAL   PAINTING   IN   STAR8T0N   CHORCH, 
NORFOLK. 

(4'»  S.  vi.  542,  577.) 

I  have  no  wish  to  be  contentioua;  but  the 
subject  of  tbifl  paintiag  is  too  iutereeting  to  be 
left  unded<led;  nd  I  see  as  ^et  no  rewon  to 
«hange  my  upiuion.  G,  A.  C.  calls  attention  to  a 
feature  iu  the  paiutiuar,  upou  which,  he  sa;a,  I 
made  no  obaerration,  but  it  did  not  escape  my 
notice.     He  observes  that — 

"  Over  the  head  of  tbe  liyinR  or  deceased  person  is  lield 
by  an  atundant  an  beialdJc  ahield,  Che  aims  upon  wliicli 
an  unfurtBaaCalf  too  iiidialinct  to  be  Bccunleiy  de- 
cyphered." 

The  anna,  as  well  as  can  be  made  out,  appear 
to  be  those  of  Sawtree  or  Saltrev  Abbey  in 
Huntiugdoiu&ira,  to  which  the  atlvowsona  of 
eeveml  churches  in  Norfolk  were  granted,  and 
the  abbot  of  which  held  nanors  and  hmda  in  the 
coiinty.  But  whaterer  arms  wmb  on  the  ahield 
la,  in  m^  opinion,  of  no  importance  towards  the 
elucidation  of  the  puntiDg. 

I  am  more  and  more  convinced  that  it  repre- 
aents  the  death  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary.  Two 
«ngela  are  carrying  us  her  soul  to  heaven :  no 
such  presumption  of  immediate  beatitude  could 
have  been  entBrtained  of  any  ordinary  individual, 
however  ennobled  by  worldly  honours.  In  the 
next  place,  as  I  mentioned,  I  have  seen  vanous 
old  rqmaentatinis  of  the  death  of  the  B.  V.  Itf. 
more  or  less  agreeina  with  the  one  at  Staraton; 
and,  at  least,  two  such  are  in  my  own  possession. 
One  of  these  remarkably  coincides ;  having  the 
three  piivileged  Apostlea,  SS.  Peter,  James,  and 
John,  close  to  the  bed,  and  St.  John,  as  here, 
wearing  a  eupe,  and  extending  his  hands  over  the 
bed.  In  the  other,  the  same  three  are  standing 
in  the  anuie  position;  St.  John,  alwava  difitin- 
guishable  by  hia  juvenile  appearance, 'and  here 
also  wenring  a  cope  and  clasping  hia  hands.  These 
•re  bot&  woodcuts  of  the  fifteenth  centurv. 

I  said  that  I  attached  no  importance  to  the 
heraldic  shield.  If  we  make  the  very  allowable 
supposition  that  some  patron  or  distinguished 
person  was  interred  beneath  the  recees,  and  that 
this  naintiog  was  executed  as  a  pious  memorial 
over  his  tomb,  the  whole  will,  I  think,  be  satis- 
factorily e^lained.  The  B.  V.  Mary  has  just 
departed.  St.  John  holds  a  family,  or  conventual 
coat  of  ams  toward*  his  adopted  holy  Uothor,  to 
implore  her  intercession  for  the  owners  of  the 
tttOB,  or  the  soul  of  the  pesson  interred  beneath ; 
«nd  St  Peter  holds  a  scroU,  on  wluch  the  in- 
■criplion  seems  to  have  bera  "  Preror  te  Haria." 


The  last  word  is  still  plain  j  but  on  any  other  sup- 
position, howcould  it  be  appropriate  ?  The  femtue 
figure,  whom  G.  A.  C.  supposes  to  be  coronetted, 
has  really  no  coronet,  but  merely  an  ornamental 
head  band.  She  is,  in  ray  opinion,  only  one  of 
the  holy  viromen  attendants  on  the  B.  Virgin,  per- 
haps meant  for  Seraphia,  who  was  distinguianed 
as  the  wife  of  one  of  the  members  of  the  Sanhe- 
drim, and  of  whom  tradition  reports  that  ahe  was 
of  about  the  same  age  as  Mary,  and  had  been  long 
and  closely  connected  with  the  Holy  Family. 
There  is  one  object  standing  before  the  head  of 
the  bed,  which  I  cannot  explain,  because  so  little 
of  it  remuus.  It  looks  like  a  pedeabl,  and  may 
have  supported  a  lamp,  or  cb^g-dish,  as  there 
are  what  appear  to  be  flames  at  the  top. 

I  take  thu  occadon  to  correct  a  mistake  I  made 
when  the  drawinar  w<m  first  sent  me.  I  too 
hastily  pronounced  the  coped  figure  to  be  St 
Peter;  but  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  it  rerae- 
aents  St  John.  F.C.H. 

F.S.  The  misprinting  of  a  single  word  is 
sometimes  of  much  consequence,  and  therefore  I 
must  request  the  readers  of  "N.  ft  Q."  to  correct 
in  their  copies  the  misprint  at  the  end  of  my 
article  (p.  542)  of  the  word  hand.  It  ought  to 
be  head.  The  hand  would  he  of  no  value  towards 
making  out  the  figure  intended,  but  the  head 
would  be  most  important    Unfortunately  neither 


In  a  chromolithograph  of  this  painting  which  I 

have  seen,  the  following  letters  are  quite  plun : 
F&OCE,  then  a  hiatus  occupying  the  apace  of  two 
letters,  then  a  longobardic  N  with  the  atraight 
stroke  prolonged'  upward  and  stumounted  by  a 
cross-stroke  as  if  for  Kt,  then  e,  then  the  wxtid 
KARiA,  i.  e.  proce[ds]ste  habii.  It  cannot 
posMbly  have  been  precor  te,  unless  the  artist  has 
drawn  upon  his  imagiQafion  for  three  characters 
which  are  very  distinctly  shown  in  the  chromo- 
lithograph. J.  T.  F. 
S.  KcImj',  Brigg. 

Eobcob's  "  NovKLiBTs'  LiBiURi  "  AN»  Gbobsb 
Ceuikshank  (4'"  S.  vi.  S43,  428.)— Mb.  Wrua 
is  substantially  correct  in  what  ne  says  as  to 
Georso  Cruiksbank'a  connection  vrith  this  worl^ 
but  ne  is  in  error  in  supposing  the  series  to 
con^  of  mneleea  volumes,  which  is  complete 
in  seventeen,  or  those  illustrated  by  the  artist 
above-named.  It  was  Mr.  Roscoe's  fint  intention 
that  the  deugns  for  the  entire  series  should  be 
executed  by  Strutt ;  but,  regarding  these  as  a 
feilnre,  he  renounced  his  connection  with  that 
artist  on  the  issue  of  the  second  volume,  com- 
mencing de  Tuao  with  the  des^ns  of  George  Oruik- 
^lank.  The  two  volumes  iltastKited  by  Stautt 
were  not  hencefbrwsod  intended  to  be  nc^oBad 


*»  3.  TIL  Jas.  1 


■1.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEKIES. 


41 


as  any  portion  of  tho  series.    Tbu  is  ^ain  : 

tbe  amuninceTncsit  cited  hj  your  correapandenc 
"  that  he,  G.  CTuJkshaidr,  'ueogoged  to  iUustnts 
the  wholt  aeries^  "  which  could  al^erwim  poseaae 
no  BignitictiDoe;  and  it  explainB  the  ^pareat 
anomidj  of  two  first  and  two  second  lolumes. 
Bating  th«ae  excrescences,  iioscoe'a  "Novelisla'  lA- 
bnrj,"  in  the  view  of  ita  editor  Thomas  Boscoe, 
consisted  of  setenteen  volumes,  tbe  whole  of 
which,  without  exception,  were  illustrated  by  my 
friMid  Geoi^  Cruikshank.  J,  C.  HodBB. 

ChanoesofSajtes  is  Ireland  {S'^  S.  pamm; 
4*S.Ti.310,42a)— Stuart's^r»nDffA(8T0,ISfewTy, 
1819,  p.  201)  atatea  from  Veaey's  Statutes,  p.  29, 
that  in  — 

"  lie?  Forlument  enacted  that  ereiy  Iriebman  vho 
dwelled  amon^l  EngluhmeD  In  tbe  coanUes  of  DobliD, 
Myeth  (MeMli),  nriel.  uid  Eildare,  should  be  apparelled 
after  tbe  English  fkahion,  and  ebould  abava  the  beard 
above  the  mautb,  and  take  an  Englisb  soiname  daiived 
eithei  from  a  tawi,  s  colour,  on  art.  science,  or  office. 
Hence  are  dtrirad  many  funil/  names,  ancfa  aa  Snttmi, 


r.  Trim.  Cork,  Blai 


Lck,  Bi 


Ctar,  Cook,  Bnller.  &e.     Samea  thus  adopted  oere  te 
Tunuilted  to  noateritj  under  peocltv  of  forfUtura  of 
ffooda,  &c^    Tke  MwaBgabbana  become 'Smitb,  tbe  Geala 

W.P. 
"God  uadk  Mas,"  btc.  (4'*  S.  vi.  345,  428, 
487.)  —  The  replies  which  your  laamed  coitb- 
■poodents  F.  C.  H.  and  Db.  Bixoh  have  kindly 
gnen  to  my  query  respecting  tiiese  qnaint  lines 
are  Tery  noteworthy — flie  former  as  showing  that 
they  are  not  pecahar  to  any  one  conoty,  ond  the 
Utter  for  tbe  rsTerential  feeling  with  which  they 
wpear  to  hare  been  trenured  up  by  the  Dutham 
collier.  It  seems  probable  that  they  originated 
amon^  the  nun  era,  for  tbe  version  of  the  lines 
siqtplifid  by  Da.  Bt^oh — and  evidentlr  tbe  most 
oonect  of  Uie  three  given — uumiat^eBnly  impliaa 
as  smeh ;  and  tiie  &ct  of  their  being  popnlat 
with  the  pitmen  of  the  North,  and  my  hearing 
them  in  tbe  Staflbrdshire  colliery  district,  tends 
also  to  support  thia  supposition.  May  I  inquire 
again,  have  any  of  your  readers  ever  aeen  them  in 
pDOt  before?  F.  S. 

Thi  Advbst  Htmn  (A*  S.  tL  112.)— The  cor- 
iMMndent  of  the  Sunday  Times,  May,  1870,  has 
nude  a  sad  blundering  statement  concerning  the 
time  of  this  hymn.  "  Helms'ey  "  is  an  adaptation 
of  the  melody  of  a  song  beginning — 

"  Gooidiaa  angels  now  protect  me. 
Send  to  me  the  joath  1  love,"— 
«iii^  by  Ann  Catley  in  The  Golden  P^pm,  a  boi- 
lettft  aolad  at  Govsnt  Garden  Theatre,  Feb.  6, 
1773l  Mias  Cntley  wna  a  celebrated  actr^a  and 
oiiwer.  Ber  I^e  imd  Mtmoirt  (a  vety  ciuioos 
Buakx^l^MiBaAnihrow),  isaow  faafnu  m«. 
^3m  toM  haaamt  foptdat,  and  :wss  scaveiitad 
— '-  -  '  '      iMM  pl^hcMsa  nuHiown,  and 


inte  a  hymn-tuna  by  some  zealous  low't^uich- 
nuut  Vulgarity,  and  consequent  unfitness  for 
devotioual  porpoees,  is  the  strong  characteristic 
of  this  still  (I  am  sorry  to  eay)  popular  tune. 

Eswiiis  F.  Rlkbadlt. 
■  " HiEBtiSALBM  1  sir  HAPFiE  Home!"  {4"^  S. 
vi.  372,  485,) — ^As  a  supplement  to  the  histoiy  of 
this  "song"  or  hymn,  it  maybe  stated  that  a 
copy  in  broadside  will  be  found  in  tbe  Rawlinsou 
Collection  of  Ballads  (Jto,  566, 167)  in  the  Bod- 
leian Library.  It  is  entitled :  The  true  dacription 
of  the  everlasting  toys  of  Heaven.  To  the  tune  of 
O  man  in  deeperaiuin.  In  two  parta,  nineteen 
stanzas  of  eight  lines  (ao  by  no  means  in  an  abbre- 
viated form),  black  letter,  two  woodcuts.  "  Printed 
for  F.  Cnles,  T.  Vare,  and  J.  Wright  (between 
1850  and  1670).  It  begins  thua ;  — 
■>  Jerusalem,  mv  happy  home, 
When  shall  1  come  to  thee  ? 
Wheo  shall  my  sorroivs  have  an  end  ? 

ThyjojH  when  shall  I  see  ? 

Where  happy  haiboor  is  of  saint. 

With  sweet  and  pleasant  soyi ; 

Id  thee  do  sorroir  ever  luund,* 

No  grief,  no  care,  no  toy  I." 

Wu.  Chappkll. 
"PloB  KAr  Flt,"  bio.  (4"'  8.  tL  321,  aOB.)  — 
I  did  not  intend  to  dtum  this  proverb  as  aa  IbJnm 
one.  I  meaat  nothing  more  than  that  I  mat  wtth 
h  in  Italy.  I  had  never  heard  it  in  P.nglanH 
Howerar,  it  n|qwaia  to  be  well  known.  Wliat  is 
the  Foglidi  form  t  I  wish  that  Mb.  Adbk  bad 
given  it  The  same  proverbs  are  so  wi  Jriy  dif- 
AiB«d,  that  it  is  imposaible  to  fix  locality. 

SxSPfiEH  jADZStHr. 

When  1  was  a  "  raid"  in  one  of  Green's  ships, 

a  shipmate  from  WorcsststBhire  (Chipping  Nor- 
tum,  i  believe),  when  asked  to  do  anytibmg  he  did 
not  wish  to,  would  frequently  replr  by  saying  t 
"  Kgs  jniffJit  fly,  but  they're  very  unlikely  birds." 
F.H.D. 
Bolivar,  Mississippi,  W.  8. 

Sib  Tboxas  Bbowkz  ;  Abcsbk's  Con&i  (4<^ 
S.  vi.  46,  288.)— Hasted,  Ireland,  and  the  other 
Kentish  historians,  all  speak  vaguely  of  the  owner 
of  Aicher'a  Court,  who  passed  it  to  Rouse.  They 
ss^,  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  or  Mr.  Thnmaa  Browne 
of  Loudon,  Thomas  Broaate,  &c.  It  is  to  be 
igretted  that  Mm.  Hilton  ^a  not  settled  the 
by  respendii^  te  Us.  Euteo's  Tery  usefid 
&m.    I  hare  seen  in  Doctor^  Commons 


"  I  gna,  &e.  Im  tnut,  Ao.  WhitUd  or  AnAar'a  Caort, 
bonglU  by  me  sf  the  Bev.  Thonaa  Brovuie,  hia  wife 
£iizab*lb,  and  William  BigBme,  Esq.,  to  my  daughter 
Afta  StrJDger,  wita  of  Ptiiaeaa  Eftnnger,"  Ac. 

The  name  therefore  is  Broome,  and  not  Browne 
at  all.  Jimira. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


l*>iS.TII.J*i.l^7I. 


Tax  Irish  Plakxtt  (4*  S.  tL  SOO,  512).- 
I  IiaT6  alwaja  heaid  uid  understood  it  to  bsTS 
been  a  hani  air  of  a  ^land  and  elevating  character. 
It  mingled  the  moat  pAHaonate  grief  for  wrong 
inflicted  on  clan  or  kindied  with  the  fiercMt  de- 
nunciation of  the  wrongdoer.  It  celebrated  a 
Tictorr  and  the  virtues  of  the  victor  chief.  It 
was  the  napUal  aong  of  a  rojal  hero's  bridal,  or 
the  reven^ful  and  defiant  strain  upon  hia  fall  in 
battle.  When  Ireland  became  at  length  consoli- 
dated under  Engliah  rule,  and  the  fighting  of  the 
nativo  septs  and  daoswas  done  away  with,  the 
planxfy  assumed  a  convivial  character;  and  any 
gentleman  of  old  standing  in  the  countrj, 
whether  of  Irish  or  English  descent,  Catholic  or 
Protestant,  who  kept  a  good  cellar,  laider,  and 
pack  of  hounds,  and  who  bad  hiat  an  opponent, 
once  at  least  in  his  life,  in  fsir  fight,  with  sword 
or  pistol,  was  sure  to  have  a  planxty  dedicated  to 
his  name  and  honour  by  the  peripatetic  bard  or 
harper  who  took  the  jollj  squire  in  his  rounds, 
and  received  the  eead  tmilefaMhe  (himdred  thou- 
sand welcomes)  of  Irish  hospitality  as  long  as  he 
chose  to  stay.  Of  such  modem  celebrations,  the 
most  notable,  and  the  readiest  to  refer  to,  as 
having  been  adapted  by  Sir  John  Stevenson 
to  some  of  the  most  beautiful  of  Moore's  verses, 
are  Planxtv  Kelly,  Planxty  Connor,  and  Plsnxty 
Sudlef — toe  last  -  mentioned  having  been  an 
indubitable  Saxon.  Like  the  Norman  Geroldinee 
of  a  former  age,  who  intermarried  amongst 
the  natives  and  cultivated  the  good  opinion 
of  their  adopted  country,  be  pitaSied  his  tent 
on  some  pleasant  spot  of  the  ''Oolden  Vein," 
and  making  himself  and  everyone  who  had 
to  do  with  him  happy  and  comfortable,  be- 
came "  more  Irish  tnan  the  Irish  themselves." 
Carolan's  beat  air  was  aplanxty,  which  be  com- 

Sosed  in  honour  of  a  Weuhman  (Bumper  Squire 
ones)  during  a  visit  he  mode  to  the  Principality, 
in  return  for  the  generous  consideration  with 
which  the  most  celebrated  of  Irish  harpers  was 
treated  not  only  by  that  particular  host,  but 
wherever  ha  went  amongst  the  descendants  of  the 
Cimbii.  The  toufe  derivaiur  of  "  planxty  "  I  have 
often  beard  discussed,  some  deriving  it  from  the 
Greek  irA<ryiirrJi,vagrant,wandering,&c., and  others 
from  the  Latin  pimctut,  the  noise  of  the  tem- 
pestuous waves  dashing  upon  a  rock-bound  coast, 
to  which  more  than  one  ancient  poet  has  likened 
the  roar  of  human  voices  in  battia  or  tumult. 
The  secondary  and  more  popular  meaning  of 
^tmeliu,  as  we  all  know,  is  a  pb»int  or  complaint ; 
but  I  have  never  heard  of  any  keen  or  coronach  or 
purely  funeral  aong  of  the  Irish  havii^  been 
called  aplanxty.  I  believe  thatthe  derivation  of 
the  word  &om  the  Latin  or  the  Greek  does  not 
hold  good,  as  the  Celtic  is  of  an  older  stock  than 
either. 

Thb  Ksisht  o»  Iwaaowss. 


Lttwni'B  Ieibh  M8S.  (4*  S.  ti.  387,  Blfl.)— 
The  Sebright  MSS,  are  well  known  in  Trinity  Col- 
lege, Dublin.  The  old  press-marke  are  H.  26-30 
and  H.  64-71  includve.  These  MSS.  were  be- 
queathed by  Sir  John  Sebright,  near  St  Alban's, 
to  the  provost,  fellows,  and  scholars  of  Trinity 
College,  Dublin.  The  Rt.  Hon.  Edmund  Burke, 
one  of  the  executors  of  Sir  John,  caused  them  to 
be  delivered  to  tbn  Uoivernty,  having  first  sub- 
mitted them,  according  to  the  dewie  oF  the  testa- 
tor, ta  the  perusal  and  examination  of  General, 
then  Colontd,  Vallancey.  ITiey  were  -bought  by 
Sir  John,  and  had  been  the  property  of  Edwara 
Lhwyd.  B.  E.  N. 

[We  dull  be  glad  to  receive  ttmn  B.  R  K.  ssme  notice 
of  thne  MSS.  for  imertioa  in  tha  colnmns  of"  N.  tc  Q." 
Ed.] 

Post  Prophbctes  (4*  S.  vi.  370,  39e,  488.)— 
I  saw  in  Chambert'i  Jinimal  a  curious  strin?  of 
prophecies,  each  beginning  "I  would  not  be." 
The  only  one  I  remember  was,  "I  would  not  be  a 
king  in  '48."  I  cannot  remember  if  I  saw  it 
before  or  after  that  year,  and  I  have  no  means  of 
reforring-  to  the  book  now.  Can  any  of  your  cor- 
respondents kindly  tell  me  if,  like  the  one  men- 
tioned by  E.  L.  S.,  it  was  made  after  the  event  ? 
A-lso,  if  there  was  any  other  prediction  worth 
notice  in  it ;  and  how  far  the  dates  extended  into 
the  century  F  L.  C.  R. 

IxDEXBs  (4*>'  S.  vi.  434,  S13.)— There  are  some 
books  the  utility  of  which  is  quite  destroyed  for 
want  of  good  indexes.  I  believe  that  in  several 
cases  it  would  pay  to  print  them.  Suppose  a  man 
to  advertise  that  he  would  publish  an  index  (say 
to  Rushworth'a  Hislorieal  ColUcthnt),  if  he  could 
^t  a  hundred  subscribeia  at  a  guinea  each,  I 
imagine  the  money  would  be  forthcoming. 

K.  P.  D.  E. 

"It's  a  PiK  Cbt  to  Loch  Awb"  (4'*  S.  yi. 

506.)— Tour  correspondent  will  find  the  legend 

connected  with  this  saying,  unless  I  mistake,  in 

Hammerton'e  Painter'*  Camp  in  the  Highkmdi. 

A.  'M.  B.  a. 

Laik  Dwxlldtos  oir  LoveH  Much  (4*  S.  vi. 
369.) — Since  writing  my  query  as  to  the  lake 
dwellingin  Lough  Much,!  have  found  the  account 
riven  by  Lubbock,  in  hia  work  on  Prefiitloric 
Man  of  the  Irish  "cranogos";  but  I  am  stiU 
anxious  to  hear  something  of  the  dale  of  the 
island  I  described.  While  fishing  there,  I  heard 
from  a  man  who  farmed  some  fourteen  acres 
several  interesting  instances  of  folk  lore,  founded 
on  the  belief  that  the  lake  was  haunted.  Thus 
he  told  me  tbat  when  a  boy,  fishing  with  other 
boys  and  young  men,  with  Inited  lines  left  in  the 
water  for  fish  to  hook  themselves,  they  were 
startled  when  standing  near  and  talking  by  hear- , , 
ing  a  crash,  as  if  a  whole  cnte  of  crockery  had 
been  thrown  down,  about  throe  yards  from  them 


4*S.VII.  J*li.U,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


in  the  like.  All,  joaiig  mea  iDcluded,  were  so 
frightened  at  this  freak  of  the  water  fairie*,  that 
thev  ran  avaj,  leaving  their  lines  in  the  water, 
and  did  not  dare  te  return  for  the  daj.  Another 
gtoT7  which  he  evidently  connected  with  the 
aupematural,  though  he  did  not  saj-  eo  in  bo  many 
word«,  was  that  of  a  young  maa  who  found  a 
silver  sword  on  the  island  I  have  spoken  of. 
When  wading  back,  he  tound  the  ground  so  soft, 
that  to  lighten  himself  be  pitched  the  sword  from 
him  forward  on  to  the  shore,  where  it  split  up 
into  fragments  too  small  to  be  picked  up.  A  third 
story  was  told  of  an  island  in  a  neighbouring  lake, 
wliich  was  covered  with  trees  weil  suited  for 
hoe  and  spade  handles  and  the  like;  yet,  though 
it  was  easy  to  wade  to  the  islsni),  no  one  would 
cat  one  and  incur  the  certainty  of  being  drowned 
in  retuminff,  even  in  two  feet  of  water  I  He  added 
that  when  DDQghs  were  broken  off  and  diifi«d  to 
shore,  DO  one  would  use  them  even  for  fiie-wood, 
for  fear  of  ill-luck. 

Hy  informant  also  showed  me  a  field. 


She,  however,  became  in  foal  by  the  agency  of 
the  water  fairies  or  otters,  as  some  said.  I  tUnk 
this  latter  was  added  on  account  of  some  supposed 
scepticism  on  my  part,  but  the  choice  of  agencies 
struck  me  as  curious.  The  end  of  mare  and  foal 
was,  however,  tragic,  both  being  drowned  at  dif- 
ferent times  (by  fairy  agency,  ss  was  hinted)  in 
the  lake,  the  former  in  the  very  shallowest  part 
of  it,  in  only  two  feet  of  water. 

A  lad  who  was  about  with  us  a  good  deal  save 
me  what  was  te  me  a  new  vei^on  of  St.  Patrick's 
woHc  in  Ireland ;  viz.,  after  telling  me  a  number 
of  steiiea  of  good  people,  suggesting  a  doubt  as  to 
their  existence,  and  asking  if  I  beOeved  in  them, 
•a  he  had  been  told  that  St.  Patrick  had  driven 
them  all  out  of  the  island  I  A,  H.  B.  A. 

Bb.  Johhsox  ('4'"  S.  vL  468.)— Replying  to  my 
own  query  as  to  the  authorship  of  alife  of  I^. 
Johnson,  published  by  C.  Kearsle^,  1785, 1  have 
since  found,  I  think,  sufficient  evidence  to  show 
that  it  was  written  by  Thomas  Tyers.  BosweD 
refen,  somewhat  contemptuously,  to  a  sketch  of 
the  Doctor's  life  by  Tyers  ("  Tom  TyeM,"  as  he 
is  called  by  Johnson),  as  "  an  entertaining  little 
colleciion  of  fragments"  (ed.  1823,  iii.  310);  and 
"■ketch"  is  the  word  used  by  the  autborinhis 
■relkce  to  the  volume  printed  hy  Kearaley. 
Beaidee  this,  reference  ia  made  in  Jokatoniaaa 
(Hurray,  1836)  to  a  biography  by  Thomas  ^ere, 
published  in  lT8o,  which  the  author  is  said  "very 
nodestly  to  call  a  sketch  ";  end  as  I  do  not  find 
th«t  any  other  account  of  the  Doctor  was  pub- 
lished in  that  year,  Z  think  the  authorship  of  the 
Toliune  is  deariv  established. 
Mr.  lliomaB  T^eis,  it  will  be 


the  son  of  Jonathan  Tyers,  "the  fotmder,"  as 
Boswell  says,  "  of  that  excdlent  place  of  public 
amusement,  Vauxhall  Gardens." 

Cbarlbs  WxiJB. 
"As  Com  AS  .t. Maid's  EiiBB "  (i^S.  vi.  495.) 
This  and  the  saying  about  a  do^s  nose  always 
being  cold  are  common  in  the  west  of  Scotland. 
When  Noah  was  in  the  ark  it  sprung  a  leak,  and, 
according  to  a  doggrel  song — 

"  He  took  the  dog'i  nose  to  atop  up  the  hole. 
And  STSr  since  then  ic'i  been  iret  and  cold." 

Wnj-  M'Iluraiih. 

A  NuRfiKRT  Talk  (4'^  S.  vL  496.)— A   story 

in  its  cast  and  incidente  resembling  that  related 

by  'Wm.  E.  A.  Axon  will  be  found  in  Chambers' 

Popular  Shymei  of  Scotland. 

Will.  M'Iluiiaith, 
Nboro  Pboveebs  (4*  S.  vi.  494.)— Allow  me 
to  make  one  correction  in  M.  C.  K.  L.  A.'8  list  of 
"  Negro  Proverbs,"  and  te  send  you  an  additional 
proverb.  No.  10  is  thus  given  in  Jamaica,  of 
which  island  I  am  a  native : — 

"  Bnckra  dey  in  ■  tronble,  monkey  coat  fit  him," 
and 


"  Ro(±  a  to 


E,  dry  in 


10  feel  Bi 


s  seldom  sounded ;  "  tone  " 


The  s  in  . 
for  done. 

"  Man  in  prosperity  knows  not  ths  bittemees  of  >d- 

seems  to  be  the  idea  of  the  last. 

H.  A.  Httsbass. 

Sm/TH  (4"  S.  vi  474.)~The  Saturday  Heview 
need  scarcely,  I  tliink,  have  taken  the  trouble  to 
inform  its  readers  that  the  surname  of  the  author 
of  the  CommOttiBealth  was  written  Smvth  as  well 
as  Smith  in  Elizabethan  documents.  Of  course  it 
was ;  and  1  do  not  think  that  the  form  Smyth 
will  be  found  in  any  "document"  older  than  the 
aighteenth  century.  In  fact,  less  than  a  (wnturr 
ago,  the  name  of  this  particular  family  wtuaSmyta, 
and  a  short  lime  previously,  plain  Siimh. 

The  author  or  the  Seraldry  of  Smith  umply 
leoorda  the  fact  (page  2)  that  '■  this  family  now 
write  their  name  S^tA  ;  and  there  is  no  doubt 
thst  he  considers  it  a  modem  &tl«mpt  to  veil, 
under  an  affected  orthography,  a  good  old  T-'.ngliriih 


But  if,  as  Sp.  states,  a  y  was,  in  old  U8S., 
double-dotted,  Smijth  is  analogoua  to  FfoUiott 
and  FEaningtmi,  both  of  which  Bi«  "  orthographical 

I  have  some  little  acquaintance  witii  HSS.  of 
the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  but  I  do 
not  remember  to  have  met  there  vrith  an  example 
of  a  dotted  y.  Can  Sp.  be  correct  P  The  example 
he  gives  (Maij))  I  should  take  to  be  the  genitive 
case  of  Marius;    the  so-called  doifble-dotled  y 


M 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*^  s.  vri.  ja!c.  h,  -n. 


I  I,  wha  ^  a  phyMCJM, 


iMong  Mdl^'  ij,  just 

ccnwbHitiT  exfnm  in  m  written  presmptioi 

nameral  2  bj  ij.  and  7  by  vij,  8 1^  yiij,  *e. 

A>  to  the  iHthoepj  of  thie  uncouth  nune,  why 
I  fear  it  IB  bat  SmiU  after  alL 

Mr;  Lower's  theory  will  be  found  in  faia 
Patnmjpniea  Briiannica.  The  oii^  M^ssted 
by  bis  "  fecelioua  Mend "  really  appeals  to  ma 
more  plauuble  th&n  that  propoaiLdea  oy  Sp. 

ILD. 

SioiriTiBT  Aim  SiairATARrra  (4*  S.  n.  602.) 
I  tiast  dwt,  should  this  meet  the  eye  of  Lord 
OiaiiTiUe,  he  will  excuse  me  for  observing  that, 
when  I  firat  MW  the  a^ective  "  ngnitaiy  in  his 
reply  to  the  Rosuau  note,  it  struck  me  that  the 
word  was  new.  However,  it  seems  good  in  itaelf ; 
"  dabiturqoe  Uc«ntia  eumpta  pudenter." 

Neither  it,  not  the  "  mgnstories  "  of  the  Tablet, 
appeal  ather  in  Johnson  or  lUchardgon's  ^diou' 
anes,  though  the  latter  is  vety  full  on  counezions 
with  tlie  wotd  "  sign."  The  rare  word  "  ugna- 
ttuists,"  given  in  both,  looks  like  the  nearest  ap- 
proach  to  the  term  :  bat  it  will  be  found  to  have 
rather  a  nhilosophicsl  meanin^r,  as  in  Bacon, 
Brown,  and  other  old  writers,  than  one  at  all  cor- 
iMpondiug  to  its  nse  in  reference  to  those  who 
may  sign  a  document.  Fe4SC13  Teesch. 

iMip  Rectoiy,  Oxford. 

OtB  SoKO :  "  GooDr  Bottled  Ale  "  (i*  S.  tI. 
501.)— I  think  the  veremn  of  this  fhorus  as  I 
have  often  heard  it  "  roared  out "  by  boys  in  the 
Midland  Counties,  fiill  sixty  years  ago,  more  cor- 
rect  thnn  Db.  Dixoh's  :— 

"  Goody  Burton's  ale 
Got  into  rnvnod'Het 
Beinc  etraD^  anil  fa\t. 
It  mnde  me  widdle  troddle." 
I  never  supposed  it  a  choni%  bnt  the  whole 
song.    I  never  neard  more  of  it.  Ellcbe. 

SciTOOLBOT  WoKDS  (^  S.  vi.  415,  517.)— TTie 
origin  of  the  schoolboy  phrase  ■  Bags  "  or  "  Baas 
I  b  clear  enough.  It  evidently  carries  with  it 
the  idea  of  getting  into  one's  possesdon  or  into 
one's  bag  the  object  in  question.  Thus  one  tftlks 
of  having ''  bagged  "  so  nnny  birds,  ftc, 

"Fains  "  or  "Fain  it,"_a  term  demanding  a  truce 
dnring  the  progress  of  taj  game,  I  should  be 
rafter  iaelined  to  spell  "feign  it,  expressing  a 
desire  for  a  temporary  cession  of  the  game  for  apre- 
tpux,  as  apposed  to  the  «fim«iAt«M  with  which  the 
game  had  until  then  been  played.    Gastok  Fb*. 

Unfv.  Coll.  LoDdnn. 

KxT  TO  "  Lb  Graxd  Cxbds  ■*,  (4''  S.  vi.  S87j 
518.) — Geo^e  de  Scnd^,  iritom  Isaac  IMaraah 
calla  a  Bobadil  of  literstsie,  wis  ban  at  Havre 
de  Gr&ee  in  1601.  After  some  fears  of  literary 
aetirity  he  was,  at  tlie  tolicttatian  of  the  Mar- 
chioneBB  de  Bambonllet,  appointai  by  Bicheliea 


to  be  governor  of  Notie  Dame  de  la  Garde,  a 
fbrtresa  m  Provence,  situate  on  a  high  rock  near 
ManeUles.    A  witty  author  says  of  this  appoint' 

"GoovemenKnt  commode  et  beta, 


Peint  Bur  la  porle  d 
De  Scnd^  is  known  aa  a  voluminom 


poet, 


and  the  author  of  several  theatrical  pieees  of  some 
merit  in  their  dav,  but  now  quite  forgotten.  Hu 
died  May  14,  1667. 

His  sister  Magdalen  was  bom  in  1907,  and  died 
June  2, 170L  She  was  a  person  of  greater  talent 
than  her  brother. 

The  first  put  of  Z*  Grand  Ct/nu  was  published 
in  1660,  but  the  latter  part  did  not  wpear  until 
some  yews  afterwards.  It  is  statea  in  ever)* 
edition  that  I  have  seen  to  be  written  "  par  Mon- 
sieur de  Scuddiy,"  and  b  dedicated  to  Madame  df 
Longueville,  the  sister  of  the  great  Conde,  the 
person  intended  to  be  described  under  the  name 
of  Cyrus.      The  work  is  supposed  to  be  the  joint 

Erodudion  of  tbe  brother  and  sister,  but  there  is 
ttle  doubt  that  his  part  of  the  worii  was  veiy 
small.  Their  contemporaries  always  attributed 
the  book  to  the  sister,  notwithstanding  that  the 
title-page  bears  the  brother's  name.  1  have  not 
Monsieur  Cousin's  work  to  refer  to ;  but,  if  I  re- 
member rightjy,  he  Httributas  the  work  to  Ma- 
demoiBelle  de  Scudfry. 
Speaking  of  Mademoiselle  de  Scuddrr,  M&tofre 

"  M.  de  Uarob^  na  vonloit  paa  qn'ellf  enit  fUt  ni  le 
Cyru«  ni  la  CWlie,  psrceqiie  c«8  nnTiBcra  soot  imprimiT 
toui  le  nam  de  M.  da  ScDcwTy.  MsdemoJAOlR  de  Scnd^ry, 
disoil-il,  m'a  dit  qu'dle  ue  les  a  point  fuiu,  et  M.  >le 
Scud^ry  m'a  asanr^  qoe  c'^tolt  luy  r|ui  lee  avoit  com- 
pojpz.  Et  moi,  lui  dit-je,  je  rons  assure  que  c'cst  Ma- 
demoisellods  Sciidi<ry  qal  les  a  fait?;  et  je  le  eay  blra." 

If  any  reader  of  "N.  &  Q."  can  tell  us  where 
to  find  a  perfect  and  complete  key  to  the  work, 
he  will  be  conferring  a  favour  on  one  who  appre- 
dates  the  work  for,  what  it  was  meant  to  be,  n 
description  of  contemporary  manners. 

S.W.T. 

Gkabthax  :  Blttetows  (4""  S.  vi.  476.)— Tiie 
political  autocrat  of  this  borough,  Lord  Huutinp- 
tower,  was  himself  known  by  the  sobriquet  of 
"  Blue  Billy."  Johs  BaooES. 

Biimingbsm. 

KiBi  Saitton  (4"-  S.  vi.  387,  449,  660.)— Hall 
Saalion  is  a  sntaU  hamlet,  paotsh  of  Irton,  Cun- 
berlond,  whose  scnl  b  of  a  light  sandy  desonp- 

Downham  Santon  or  Sandy,  Siiffi>lk,  in  1666 
was  ne«^  overwhelmed  hf  ma  imaanae  drift  of 
sand  from  the  Ladmnbeati  Hills,  five  mileadia- 


The  sail  of  Saaton  Hinm^e,  Uneoln,  is  sandy. 


.Ic 


■**s.Trr.  Jak.14,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Kiik  SantoB,  CQml)erluid,  is  mipposed  tobftn 
derived  its  same  ^m  a  circulu  piece  of  yntei 
400  feet  id  diameter,  which  covers  the  rnina  of  t. 
chnrch.  Kiik  Santon,  with  its  appurtemnces,  wtm 
irraated  hy  the  BoyTill  familj  to  the  Abbey  of 
St.  Hb>7  u>  Pumees. 

Kirk  SantoD,  Isle  of  Man,  is  deBCirbed  as  a  shibII 
village  of  a  nigged  surface,  near  Kirk  Santon 
Heed. 

Sandwiche,  Kent,  is  described  by  William 
Lambarde  (An  AipkAetical  Desenption  <^  Bng~ 
land  and  Wales.  Lend,  mdccms.  832)  "  to  hnvo 
got  the  name  of  the  Light  Sande." 

"  Santlftke.  1.  Lacui  Smguinh.  Nesre  to  Battd  In 
Saswjc.is  a  PUes  nsmeil  SintlBke,  which  the  People  of 
tba  Cmnlrye  erta  to  th»  Daye  imagine  to  ba  >o  ulled 
of  tbe  Hi«im«9  of  Bloud  that  ramie  thure  liler  the 
RTcat  Fii;bt  betvcna  the  Canqaerour  and  Haronld." 


/.  Lambvdr,  idem  3! 

Sandgnte,  Kent — 

"  The  nsme  of  Iho  Tillage  ia  denved  from  its  sitnatian 
■t  one  of  tbo«e)calG3  or  |^p9  of  the  sea  to  frequent  along 
the  E.  coast,  and  from  Iha  sandy  Datnre  of  Ibe  soil  on 
Wbich  it  ia  b»iU."— Hamilton's  Gaietlter. 

L-HARLES  TjVIAS, 

4i,  Eaimoa  Square,  S.Vl'. 

.  Babies'  Bblm  (4"'S.  vi,  475;  vit.  21.)— The 
divine  poet  is  Francis  Queilee,  The  lines  are  from 
his  Embltmt,  IHvitie  and  Moral,  book  n.  No.  8. 
Venus  is  soothing  a  fretful  earthly  Cupid  with  a 
globe  and  bells  (no  doubt,  a  fort  of  coral).  Divine 
Capid  ezpostnlates — 

"  We'll  look  to  beaven,  and  trust  to  higher  wjs  ; 
Let  swine  love  busks  and  ebildren  whine  for  toys." 
MABSAItET  QatIT. 

The  Bells  ot  St.  Michael's,  Coveittey  (4* 
S.  vi.  £24.) — These  bells  weie  at  first  arranged  in 
two  heists,  but  on  the  tenoi  bell  being  cracked 
in  1809,  and  recast  by  Bryant  of  Hereford,  thev 
Were  all  arranged  on  one  level,  and  sotheystiU 

'n'hen  this  peal  was  fint  hung,  it  was  disposed 
on  a  CraoieworK  restang  on  the  walls  of  the  tower, 
khI  aerion  danger  to  tbe  building  being  appre- 
hended, it  was  resoived  in  1793,  by  the  advice  of 
Kr.  Wyatt,  the  architect,  to  construct  a  luaat 
reatiDg  on  Ibe  ground.  This  was  designed  by  Ht. 
letter  of  Lichfield,  and  carried  ont  in  17M,  at  an 
expense  of  S07<L,  the  bells  beins  rehung  in  De- 
cember the  wnte  year,  since  which  time  no  mate- 
rial altentioii  hw  been  made.  At  tbe  same  period 
tiw  tomr  mideiwraitA  ^oroi^h  repair.  They 
an  not  so  bigk  ia  the  tower  br  thirty  feet  as  at 
first 

Howerar  desirable  this  arraagement  may  be  for 
the  bella,  aad  for  secnring  safety  to  the  buHding 
in  lingiag  tlnna,  it  is  mach  to  be  regretted  that 
it  has  omipletciy  sacriSead  die  brtemol  f^pew^ 


it  commiuiicated  by  a  lofl;  imA  beMitiAiUy  gnopov- 
tioned  areh. 

A  clock  and  chimes  ^pear  to  have  been  added 
to  the  beHs  at  a  vwy  early  date,  for  in  I'dW-? 
notices  of  paymenta  being  made  on  their  aaaatiiit 
Iir«  recorded ;  and  in  1677  "  v>  was  paid  fbr  tym- 
b«r  and  niakyng  the  berrell  for  the  cbyne,''  and 
in  the  same  year  Henrv  Bankes  was  avgaced  in 
altering  the  "  chyme  ana  settinge  hit  news. 

In  1778  a  new  cloti  and  chinea  were  con- 
structed by  Mr.  Worton  of  Birmin^iHu  at  an 
expense  of  '27~L    Some  years  ago  the  a  ' 


iged  and  harmonised.    Both  are  under  the 
care  of  the  grandson  of  their  origiDal  maker. 

WiL  Geo.  Fexttvh. 

Coventry. 

[Oar  correniondait  will  find  his  early  puticnlars  of 
these  hells  in  anr  S"  S.  is.  421,  fill.] 

Marike  Rose  (*»  8.  vi.  436,  484.)— The  rose 
alluded  to  by  Mb.  J  aues  Peabsoit  is  tbe  one  I  in- 
quired about  (p.  436).  I  found  it  in  proftision  nenr 
Fleetwood ;  but  I  think  that  Boaa  tpmommma  ia 
not  the  proper  name,  and  that  it  is  more  likely  to 
be  the  SoM  rubella,  as  guessed  by  J.  T.  F.  I 
know  the  ipinaaittima :  it  ia  an  Alpine  plant  found 
at  a  coDsiderable  altitude  in  the  Vallais.  D'An- 
greTille,  in  his  La  Flore  VaUaisanne  (Geneva, 
16G3),  names  it  as  on  the  mountains  of  Fins- 
hauta  4600  feet  abore  the  sea.  The  English 
larine  rose  is  certainly  entitled  to  the  epithet 
"  spinosissima,"  but  still  I  belisTe  that  it  is  a  dif- 
ferent plant  to  the  Alpine  one — the  real  spinoiis- 
tima  of  Linnsus.  This  is  only  conjectare,  I 
should  like  to  compare  tbe  Fleetwood  rose  with 
the  Fins-bants  plant.  Perhaps  some  botanist 
who  has  visited  the  Alps  msy  be  able  to  say 
whether  the  two  roses  bxk  identical.  The  northi^m 
plant  of  the  Sraiih  Setani/  (quoted  by  J.  T.  F.) 
may  probably  be  the  same  as  the  Lancashire  one, 
but  1  am  sceptical  as  to  the  Fle«rtwood  rose  being 
the  AlfUne  Lumsm  ^nnoMStina.  Has  the  North- 
umbrian sea-rose  been  ever  examiaed  vrith  the 
Fleetwood  oneF  Canuot  F.  C.  H.  throw  some 
light  on  tbe  subject?  Hetaiowsallthe  localitiea 
above-named."  A  Mubitbiah. 

"With  regard  to  the  rose  inijuired  about  in 
"  N.  &  Q.,"  had  I  a  small  specimsn  or  a  more 
minute  description,  I  could  tell  the  name  at  once. 
But  wanting  this,  I  have  no  doubt  that  it  is  the 
Bumet  rose  ^  Sosa  /pirumttima  =  Ekcotch  loie. 
The  latter  name  is  given  because  it  grows  plenti- 
fully in  Scotland.  I  have  found  it  on  tbe  sandy 
shoMS  of  Wales,  from  Pembroke  to  Caernarvon. 
On  the  sands  it  is  veir  dwarf;  it  is  taller  inland. 
I  have  found  it  in  worceMoehiss.  I  do  not  re- 
collect it  in  Switzerland ;  but  it  frequently  hi^ 


*  The  Mom  Atpku,  L,  ia  fbitad  at  an  aldtnde  of  78BO 

*  in  the  moantaina  of  St.  Barnaul.    It  la  the  hi^^ 


46 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


[4*a.VIL  Jia.11,71. 


K 


ins  that  a  cowt  plant  rcoyn  on  lof^  mountaios. 

'he  Kurvy-gxaBS  {CoMearia),  a  conunon  aea- 
coaat  ^ant,  in  one  of  its  fomu  (C  o^pmo  or 
anxnbmdica)  growB  oa  the  suiumita  of  mouDtuDS. 
I  have  ffathraed  it  on  the  walla  of  TeDbf  in 
South  Walas,  and  on  the  eummit  of  Ben  Lavera 


Jiosa  mmo 

about  Scotland.  In  Dr.  Hooker's  Sludeni'.  Flora 
of  the  Britiih  Ides  it  is  said  to  grow  in  Arctic 
Europe  and  in  Siberia  and  North  China.  The 
Boia  rubella,  named  b;  J.  T.  F.  (4'*  S.  vi.  484) 
ie  a  very  local  maritime  row,  and  not  at  all 
likely  to  be  the  Lancashire  rose  inquired  after  by 
a  brother  "  Murithion."       Edwin  Lbbs,  F.L.S. 

Qreea  Hill  Summit,  WDrccBter. 

Spinonuima  et  ruhella=geiUilU. — Je  tous  dirai, 
quant  i  ma  mani^re  de  Toic,  que  cea  deux  roses 
soot  diffjrentea.  La  Roia  tputoiiitimit  (Smith, 
Eng.  Fhr.)  croit  sur  lea  cotes  incult«s  du  bord  de 


De  Candolle  (p.  008)  apnelle  cetto  n 
,     ,  Elle  est  aot 

Salive,  pr^  de  Oen^re: 


roise  pimpmillifolia.* 


t  abondante 
_  aai  trouTfie  a 

Catogne,  sur  Sembrancher. 

RoianAeUa  (lAnAley)=So»agtatilu  (Stemb.) 
Tient  auBsi  en  Suisse,  hut  le  Salere.  D'apr6s 
certains  anteurs,  ces  deux  roses  paraisBeut  avoir 
be&ucoup  de  rapport  et  de  parent^,  au  point  qu'il 
eat  difficile  de  tea  distjnguer.  Je  croia  lea  avcdr, 
les  deux  esp£cee  (tpiaotunma  et  rubella  ^  gmtilii), 
dans  mon  bertner.  G.  De  i.a  Soib,  Curd. 

BoverQier.t  Suisse. 

SisH.  CaxBRB,  THESTATUiKT  {4"'S.Ti,535.) 
I  can  mention  aplace  where  one  of  this  artist's  works 
may  be  aeen — Mold  parish  church,  FliiKshire — a 
full-length  marble  statue  of  life-dze,  of  ^om  I 
foiget  A  Hon  of  Charles  Madryll  and  fVances 
Cheere  owns  and  lifes  at  Papworth  Everard,  not 
far  Irom  Caxton  gibbet  Umeas  I  am  mistaken, 
they  have  no  grandson,  few  of  the  sons  having 
married.  Of  the  survinug  sons,  one  is  registrar 
of  the  Middlesex  County  Court  holden  at  Olerkeo- 
well;  one  is  a  major  (retired,  1  believe,  from  the 
Indian  army);  another  is  in  holy  orders,  and  in- 
cumbent of  Little  Drayton,  Shropshire. 

A&UIOBR. 

Thk  e2iiD  SBoiHBin;  (4'*  S.  vi.  628.) — In  De- 
cember 1766  the  62nd  regiment  (or  Loyal  Ame- 
rican Provincials)  was  laiaed  in  America.  Inl766, 
in  consequence  of  the  capture  of  the  60th  and  6lBt 
regimenta  at  Oswego,  the  regiment  was  numbered 
the  60th.    The  Act  of  Parliament  sought  after  by 


Mb.  Hissdtb,  if  my  memory  serves  me,  was  en- 
acted at  the  commencement  of  the  French  revolu- 
tionarj  war,  to  permit  Hanoreriana  to  join  the 
63nd.  Hanover,  by  treaty,  furnished  a  contingent 
of  14,000  for  life  service  to  our  army. 

F.  Datid  Bbuht. 

Wbono  Datbs  nr  Ckrtaib  Biosraphies  (4* 
S.  vi.  410.) — In  the  communication  by  the  RsT. 
De.  Rogers  to  "  N.  &  Q."  on  the  above  subject, 
after  stating  that  he  had  shown  in  1866  that  the 
date  of  the  birth  of  the  Ettrick  Shepherd  com- 
monly given,  viz.  Jan.  3S,  1772,  could  not  be 
correct,  aa  the  pariah  re^ster  proved  that  he  was 
baptised  on  Dec.  ft,  1770,  he  goes  on  to  remark : 
"  Yet  the  R^v.  Thomas  Thomson,  in  a  memoir 
of  the  poet  prefixed  to  the  octavo  edition  of  hia 
works,  publiahed  by  Measrs.  Blackie  of  Olaagow 
in  1866,  has  repeated  the  original  error."  The 
following  are  the  words  of  the  memoir,  from 
which  it  will  he  seen  whether  the  "original  error" 
has  been  repeated  or  not : — 

"  Tbe  subject  of  aar  memoir  was  bam,  according  to  his 


1  1772,  I 


D  the  2. 


the 


*  AngUcc  "Pimpernel.''  Vide  note  by  Ha.  James 
Pbabsoh  of  Mllnrow,  4>*  S.  tL  p.  4M. 

[t  Ths  villige  of  Bovernier  is  ■  sboTt  disbincg  rrom 
UarticDj,  on  the  St  Demsnl  route,  and  oar  correspon- 
dent A  Mdrithiam  says  that  iiis  friend,  the  worthy  Cart 
of  Bovernier,  is  always  gled  to  i««  anv  hotauical  iJiurlBls 
snd  to  give  eveir  InforiDstioD.  H.  'De  la  Sole  speaks 
Enilisb^ED.] 


This  assigned  date,  .  .  ,  r 

memory,  na  the  parish  leglster  records  bis  bap 
having  taken  place  on  the  9th  of  December,  1770." 

So  the  Rev.  Dr.  has  not  discovered  an  error, 
but  only  a  mare's  nest.  Buckie  &  Sos. 

fUiittXlKntnwl. 
NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  ETC. 
Tlu  Nrw  Tatamaa,  aecordag  b>  the  AuUioriied  Vertimi. 
With  Aaaly$it.  Nota,  Ac.  (BigsUr  k  Sons.) 
The  great  aim  which  the  editor  of  thb  edition  of  the 
New  Testament  has  had  in  view  has  been,  "  (o  make  the 
volume  truly  serviceable  both  forpobUc  and  private  use; 
and  to  pat  the  English  reader  b»  far  as  possible  in  pos- 
session of  the  Divine  beanties,  flccorades,  perfection',  and 
bannonies  of  the  inspired  original."  To  detail  the  arrange- 
ment and  mode  of  printing,  liy  which  the  editor  has  endea- 
voured to  accomplish  thi^  Important  object,  would  be  to 
transcribe  literally  the  editoi'a  Introduction.  For  this 
tie  have  not  space,  and  must,  therefore,  confine  ourselves 
to  the  expression  of  oot  opinion  that,  in  the  volonie 
before  us,  the  Christian  reader  will  fled  a  most  intelli- 
gent and  trustworthy  guide  to  the  study  of  the  New 
TestamcDl. 

Wondttfid  aioria  fron  IfonJiem  Lamdi.  By  Julia 
Goddard,  Author  of  "  The  Bov  and  the  CoDstdlationa," 
&c  WilJl  an  Intrvdtctim  by  Hit  Rev.  George  W.  Cos. 
M.A.,  and  Six  IlluttraliatM  from  Detigm  bg  W.  I. 
Weigsnd,  EngroBed  iy  C.  feanon.  (Longman.) 
Cloaely  aa  the  popnlai  tales  of  all  nations  are  allied, 
both  in  the  hidden  myths  which  they  veil  and  the  shape 
17  are  presented,  they  poaaees  nevertheless 


in  which  tl 


presented,  the?  noaans  neverlhelee 
and  vitality  which  serves  to  give  a 
air  of  novelty  to  them  under  every  form  they  may  aa- 
aume.  The  book  betbre  us  fDmishea  a  striking  instance 
of  this.  There  is  probably  not  an  incident,  however 
strange  or  startling,  in  any  of  these  "  Wonderftil  Stories," 
which  has  not  its  counterpart  In  same  cognate  legend  of  , 
the  East  or  of  the  West,  yet  as  we  read  them  we  ara  ' 
ebannedby  tbe  spirit  of  orlglDslity  and  sense  ofgeniiine- 
neas  by  whkh  th^  are  chiraelarissd ;  and  we  lay  down 


4'^S.Tri.jA.i.  11,-71.] 


NOTES  AXD  QUERIES. 


47 


the  book  with  >  wnM  of  IndsbtedDssa  to  MfsE  GodiUrd 
for  a  CMpitil  aelectioD  of  moat  jntoraldng  popoln  OctionB, 
and  to  Hr.  Coz  for  Uig  instrnctiTe  and  intoUigent  Intro- 
doctlon  which  ho  bu  pnflxed  to  them. 
Bou't  Pariiamaitarg  Pecord,  1870.    Edited  by  ChirlM 

Sou.    (Wade.) 

We  *iiipa:t  a  tct7  large  per  omtage,  not  onlj-  of  the 
Hvmben  of  the  two  EtinMa  of  Parliameat,  but  tito  of 
tboae  apedalljr  intereated  in  the  proceedings  of  Che  legis- 
lature, an  aavet  QDacqaaioted  with  the  eii<teuce  of  Ibis 
moat  dmM  index  to  the  progros  of  legialitioa.  Thi 
ParBameiiarif  Record  appean  from  week  to  week,  anc 
H  tha  typa  ii  ahra^a  rtaoding  and  the  new  matter  ia  ia- 
trodnced  in  its  proper  place,  the  Steerd  ia  always  eom- 
pleta  Dp  to  the  moment  of  publication,  bo  that  it  is  at 
oDca  an  index  and  record  of  the  state  of  poblic  businesa, 
and  ai  nch  la  a  moat  valiuble  gnide  to  all  who  are  in- 
tereated in  such  mitCers. 
Tht  Mfaidn  owf  Marritd  Life  of  Mary  PimtU,  afttr- 

wanit  Mittrtu  mUloa.  Fmrti  JSdition.  (Kail  &  Co.) 
Tit  Hondald  of  Sir  nanus  Xore.    fWk  EtSthn,  vith 

OK  Jppaidii.    (Hall  A  Co.) 
(Satult  Me  O^Brtnr.     Foitrlh  Edition.     (Sail  &  Co.} 
ditrrf  mid  Violtt:  a  Tale  of  Ihe  Gnat  Plague.     Fifth 

Edititm.    (Hall  i  Co.) 
Tike  Pramcatiaa  of  Madame  PaBm.     lyih  EtStioa 

(HaU  &  Co.) 

The  anthonaa  of  these  admirable  Uula  books  moat  be 
de^v  ftratided  by  Ibe  Iratiroony— "  to  the  tone  of  pnre 
rcligiooa  piety  in  which  so  many  soenea  of  paat  timea 
are  related" — which  has  just  been  borne  to  them  by  the 
Arefablahop  of  Canterbnry,  who  has  been  indebted  to 
them  for  the  soothing  intereat  which  bwniled  many 
honrs  dnriiu  hia  lone  illneaa.  What  pnbliaher  conid 
rerist  drcnUtiiig  aach 
ganlBa? 

PAPWOSTB'B  "OSDFIART  of  BRrnSlI  ARHOfttALS."— 
We  desire  to  oorrect  a  misatatement  of  which  we  have 
acddentaUy  been  gnillr.  in  annoancine  that  this  work  ia 
to  be  eomrieted  by  Mr.'Walfbrd, the  edltoror  T^e  Landed 
GtKtry.  Ita  continuance  is  to  be  entmated  to  Mr.  Fap- 
worth'arsbtiveand  friend,  Mr.  Alfred  n'.Morant,F.S.A., 
who  haa  klodlr  nndertaken  tu  prepare  the  remaliider  of 
the  oiigioat  MS.  for,  and  to  see  it  through,  the  press;  and 
whose  qnaHfications  for  the  task  are  not  nnknown  to 
some  of  the  snbscribeis.  As  three-flnhs  of  the  work  have 
bem  poblltbed,  and  the  remainder  is  complete  with  the 
exception  or  a  small  portion  which  requires  retranacri bine 
for  ttie  presa,  there  aeems  now  no  doubt  tbat  the  work 
will  reiT  shortly  be  completed,  to  tbe  great  advantage 
of  all  heraldic  and  genealogical  students.  Thoso  who 
desiie  to  know  how  they  may  obtain  the  lemaiaing  Psrts 
of  the  work,  ar  may  sahscrlbe  for  the  book  in  its  com- 
[dete  furm  (the  price  will  be  five  guineas},  should  apply 
to  Mr.  Wyatt  Papwortb,  F.R.I. RA.,  13,  Hart  Street, 
Bloomsborj'  Square,  for  a  copy  of  the  new  Prospectus 
which  he  has  lately  ciwulated. 

The  FAinniKD  WiHDOWS.-^reat  fears  being  enter- 
tained for  the  safety  of  these  matchless  specimens  of 
early  art,  a  competent  authoritv  having  declared  that 
*■  at  least  the  windows  most  be  releaded,  or  a  good  etorm 
woold  do  more  faann  than  any  restoration  conld  effect."  a 
committee  to  secure  their  preservation  has  been  formed 
under  tbe  presidency  of  £aii  Bsthnrst,  and  o(  which 
Mr.  Pjlward  Roberta,  F.S.A..  ofNo,25,  Parliament  Street, 
ia  the  honoray  secretary.  That  gentleman  ia  not  only 
prepand  to  alford  every  information  on  the  aubject  that 
mar  lie  desired,  but  is*  duly  authorised  to  receive  sob- 


i   erideiKe   of   Mlaa   Manning's 


While  speaking  of  these  windows,  we  may  state  that 
Mr.  H.  F.  Holt  has  written  a  p^ier  for  the  Archaologtcal 
AasodaUon  entitled  the  "  Tannea  of  Falrfiird,"  in  whleh 
he  gives  the  rise  and  &I1  of  that  family  from  dooamenta 
hitlierto  unnoticed,  and  in  which  he  showa — 1.  Ttiat  John 
Tanae  did  not  acquire  the  painted  glasa  in  149S  by  con- 
quest or  (diacy.  3.  That  he  did  w(  found  Fairford 
church,  or  dedicate  it  to  the  Virgin  Mary.  B.  That  lie 
did  not  rebuild  the  chorch.  4.  That  he  had  nothing 
whatever  to  do  with  the  painted  glaas,  and  never  oon- 
templaled  either  ita  pnrchaae  or  ita  erection  ;  and  laatly, 
the  facta  connected  with  the  acquisition  of  the  windowa ; 
by  whom  given,  and  when,  aa  well  as  the  drcamsCaneea 
and  motives  which  induced  the  donatdon. 

ConK  Cdvibbiah  and  Abchjiolooical  Sociktt.— 
An  intereating  account  was  given  at  the  recent  meeting 
of  this  Society  of  an  ogham  stone  found,  near  Maciooo, 
in  an  ancient  subterranean  chamber,  'llie  fragment  of 
inscription  on  the  atone  was  translated  aa — "  (Stone  <rf> 
Fkcuana  thk  Sow  or  Cuod   •    •   *,"  and  was  believed 

BoDLEiA>  LtBRABT.— The  donatlom  to  the  Bodleian 
Library  at  Ozlbrd  during  the  year  ending  Nov.  S,  ISTO, 
aocording  to  tbe  catalogoe  last  issued,  comprise  aevann- 
fonr  works  printed  at  Ae  Bouiak  Press  and  presented  by 
hia  Highness  the  Khedive  of  Egypt;  Mlars  bv  the  £m- 
pemr  Napoleon  III.,  pnaeoted  by  his  Majesty,'  and  coa- 
trjbutiona  from  a  uumtierof  nniveraitiea  and  ctatreaof 
learning  in  Europe  and  America,  India  and  Auatralil. 

AHTiqvAHiAit  BicAVATiosa  IK  Italt. — Interesting 
excavations  are  being  carried  un  in  varioos  parts  of  Italy, 
espedalty  at  the  Campo  Santo  of  Bologna,  where  a  stra- 
tum of  Etruscan  Intermenta  has  lately  been  diaoovered 
underneath  tbe  medinval  and  modem  strata ;  and  also  at 
the  Leacadian  promontory,  where  Profeaaor  Giovanni 
Capelini  reporta  tliat  traces  of  cannihaliam  have  been 

SoclETT  OF  AiiiiQDARiita  OP  ScoTLANO. — Thla  So- 
ciety haa  just  been  presented  with  tbe  collection  of  anti- 
quities of  the  late  Sir  Jama  Y.  Simpson,  which  includes 
portions  of  sculptured  slabs  from  Nineveb. 

Albbrt  Barkis,  D.D.— Hie  American  papen  record 
the  sudden  death  of  this  well-lcnown  commentator  on  the 
Bible,  at  the  age  of  seventy-two  years. 

Ahrbicak  LiTERART  Hbk.— Btyant  ia  reputed  worth 
600,000  dollars,  made  chiefly  by  journalism.  Longfellow 
is  estimated  at  300,000  dollars,  the  gift  of  his  father-in- 
law,  besides  the  verv  considerable  proHt  of  his  poems, 
.olmes  is  rated  at  100,000  dollars,  lieiedilarv  property, 
LCreaaed  by  lecturing  and  literature.  Whittier,  who 
liveafrugallv,  is  worth  80,000  dollars,  inherited  and  earned 
by  his  popular  pen.  Saie  is  reputed  worth  70,000  dollars, 
inherited  and  earned  in  law,  lecturing,  and  literature, 
Lowell  is  said  to  be  worth  30.000  or  40,000  dollars,  here- 
ditary, and  acquired  in  his  chair  as  professor  of  Harvard 
College.  Boker  is  rich  br  inheritance,  and  worth  pro- 
bably 100,000  dollars.  Bavard  Taylor  ia  a  man  of  inde- 
-"icieut  property,  the  pruflla  of  hia  literature  and  lectur- 

j,  and  dividends  from  his  Trilnou  stock.  Verily,  a 
proapeiona  set  of  fellows. — Americaii  Paper. 

A  Showzr  of  B[>}01>. — One  of  (hoae  phenomena,  so 
intereating  to  scientific  men — a  shower  of  refl-coloured 
rain,  occurred  recently  near  Sulphur  Springe,  Texas.  It 
tatted  for  eight  or  ten  seconds,  and  from  the  colour  of  the 
drops  haa  been  termed  by  the  people  of  the  \idnily  "  a 
shower  of  blood," 


NOTES  AND  QUEKIES. 


C4"S.VII.  Jan.  H 


e  Uttoiy  of  oDi 


Aaftof  the  p«Mat  vanioa  tb^wiag  ■ta^aacain  what 
MTtknlan  it  dilhn  £m«  the  piaaediBg  MUtno),  sod 
Ma  which  tba  tDpT  apfifcd  to  tfaa  Ad  of  Vatmmitj 
wai  tnoKiibed,  Aon  lAidi  tranacript  "the  Sealed 
Book "  of  W6S  ms  poated,  hv  bsM  B^iradaced  tf 
M^jor-Gtooal  Sir  Hemj  Juna'i  ^Mo-aliicagiaphic 
man.  tt  fb«n>  Ut  aiut  coonterpirt  af  the  oiwiul 
ndio  Tolome,  and  ia  about  to  be  pablisbed  bf  Mr.  B.  M. 
Pi(AariiiK  with  the  uitboritr  of  the  gCatumwv  OlBo. 
Ufa  nr ■  .     . 

Prater  Book. 

WiLUAM  SmiTEr  Grasow.T.S.A.^We  ngnttoan- 
noanoe  the  death  on  Jan.  8,  1871,  of  thfa  wdl-known 
hiitoiical  and  tofognfhial  aotiquuv,  and  one  of  the 
«ailiett  eontiibaton  (o  the  pagei  of "  H.  &  Q.,"  for  two  of 
hi*  aitidu,  ondST  the  inituU  W.  S.  G.,  appeared  in  the 
fintrolnmeafonrFiiMSuiesQSlS-fia).  Mr.Gib$on, 
who  was  toj  twent3^'•a«en  yean  Begktrar  of  the  Court  of 
BmkmptCf  at  NewcasUe-apoa-Tyne,  wee  the  aathar  of 
the  Iblloimgsmong  other  work! ; — I.  "  Dileton  Hallj  or 
Hemoira  of  the  Bight  Hoo.  James  Radcliffe,  Earl  of 
Derwentwater :  to  which  is  added  A  Vi^t  to  Bamlmrgh 
Caalle."  3.  "  Northomhrien  Castlea,  Gharetaes,  and 
Antiqnitiea."  Thie«  Series.  B.  "  The  Hiatorr  of  the  Mon- 
■staiy  feonded  at  Trnemouth."  4.  "  Ab  Eenr  oa  the 
HistoiT  and  Antjquitiea  of  Bighgate."  6.  "A  Memoir  of 
the  Lire  of  Kichard  de  Bury,  Bishop  of  Durham,'  &c. 


BOOKS   AND    ODD   TOLUUES 
waxtkh  to  FimoKm, 

Flba  fcUowIoiBgokito  bgHnldtiKi 


fiaUcci  to  CatrtipatOJcnU. 

las  Ihdex  (n  tit  tut  vohtiar  wUl  bl  rtadjlfor  ddictru 
■Htt  "  N.  &  Q."  ~^  Sattudof  Mil. 

N.  R.  Shirlts'tdrmmatic  uMd  olAtrtgarittitrt  eoBtclal 
and  uMnf  £y  IF.  GIfford,  in  lix  mU.  Seo,  1838. 

£.  X.  T.  Ladii  Snnlifid.  Set  Farqidar'i  B«8ax 
Stratagem.— -'  Ab<  lotl,  but  gone  before."    See  "  N'.  &  Q. 

Richard  III.'s  Bedstead  at  Leiozsieil--J.  H.  P. 
mm  find  a  ckTUHx  painr  oa  AU  m  "  N.  £  Q."  3°<>  S, 
tr.  163. 

HlDIiaciA.  Beoelmed.  Wt  fear  im  Aok  already  n- 
itrUd  a*  nmch  at  He  MtdgettjfutifitM, 

L(>KIH).i  CoFFBB-HouaES. — W.C.(aiitE,p.5)  itrtfmrtd 
to  h'l  «M  articlt  in  "  N.  &  Q."  3<«  S.  ii.  81G,  bAik  If 
rnUfind  Ttftrt<tctt  to  Joint  Ellh. 

DATS  UF  BtRTH  Of  Jahbb  I.— The  tmr  in  fuiliini 
u  oaljf  DM  of  the  prttt,  and  uiU  be  doubllta  let  right  in 
tilt  nert  editim. 

Erratum — 4^  vii.  p.  86,  col.  ii.  line  !S  fiatn  betlom, 
for  "  DiuhaiD  **  rtad  *^  Northumberland.*' 


PAKTKIBQX    UTS    COOPER, 

MASnFACrUEJNG  STATIONERS, 
I9S,  Fleet  Street  (Comer  ofOuuKaiy  Laae). 

CASBIAQE  FAID  TO  THB  COnSTBT  <XB  ORDERS 


CNVKLOra.  *ilk  Hich  Inu 
STRAW  PAFBS-InvandiHUtfila.U.Bi 


XHE  NEW  GENTLEMAN'S  GOLD  WATCH, 
KETLEBS.  BnfUdi  Halt,  mm  biIU  llHn  r*«lta.  111.  Iti. 
«ES'  lluiuks(DTr.3».8lnod,oH«ltc3oiiicnclHinui. 

—THE  MEDICAL  PROFESSION 

*,  rHOMA^  IJOR 


"byCnOOglc 


NOTES  AND  QUEBItS. 


49 


>.V,  SATUBDAr.  JiSUARr  U  IS 


COHTENTS.— S»  IGO. 
SOTEf>--— B*«lP«cionJ  In " lie F«eriB Queen," «— W«st 
Hiihlud  CuMoni  *t  If  uriMiw.  Bfrthi.  uid  Funenb,  M 
—  Bhak^era'a  DfMh:  Hscul  GeaeUcwr.  e3  — ChriatiOM 
Wummar*  and  Ptoush'Witchera  —  TEe  Siega  oT  Bmlm: 
Tolwooo  —  Tb«  Prtttndsr't  Cordiil  —  EpiUpb  at  WIni 
Rburch—  Adun  da  OrleXm  -  Ovwnl  Wolfe  *ad  the  Wlb 
Pool  — TliB  Prophecy  of  Orral  — Witchcrmft  —  "Lo  Coq 
fhu^aii"  —  Millon  ud  Hatnrxopatbr  — Bellotyii;,  IS. 


HlnM  WChiinnm"  —  "Th 

H«OTing  of  tho  Le«l "  —  AnmnrJanrcpiir  —  Dt.  Johnion' 
U'ltoh  —  "  Dei  reletirle  Kobbold,"  Ao^  — Knight  of  tb 
BodT  aiid  Ewalre  of  tbe  Bodr  — Curious  Hu-nunCui 

)crttQ.  ....        -.._ 

, -  ■"Tom  Tiddler"*  Ground  ■■- 

—Wiic*  or  Kirli  ot  NoTUiumberluid,  M. 
BBPLIRS  i-GoD,  B7-Con*ivi»1 9oiif«.  M-"E»  "  ■ 


r  roT»n 

_,„  ,.™.   . iniih  ttTWaieT''— "Whiuny  Moor 

"BhatooktlMCnT."  Jtc— UncuMre  Funenil  Polk  Lore 
-~  MicelH  Bimel  —  The  Hon.  CMbcrlnB  Soutbeote  —  Tbe 
"BlaoLawiof  Coo  nectlcut"— Tbe  "Shan-Tan  Toghf— 
nral  BoiA  printfll  In  ManchMter  —  MisMIe  ad  uiu- 
Sanun  —  Tbe  BookminD  —  Tb*  EotUao  of  Dendorah 
Jaeob  B^iDB  —  Bur  brewing  after  Datb,  Ac,  «£. 
Note*  an  Booki.  An. 


ftlOX*. 
KEAL  PERSONS  IN  •■  THE  FAERIE  QUEEN." 
'We  hATe  eeen  that  all  is  allegor;  in  tbe  first 
fcook  of  thia  poem.  "With  it,  howeyer,  bIIbijoc^ 
ceuei,  and  we  have  onlj  person)  BcatiotH ;  but  it 
ha!  lieea  snppamd  that  by  thesa  in  genitml  are 
meant  k«1  penonagea  connected  with  the  court  of 
Elizabeth.  Thus  one  critic  sees  in  the  staid 
aober  Gayon,  the  hero  of  the  second  book,  and 

his  piide  the  ««ge  Paimer,  the  flerr  impeti 

Lord  of  Essex  and   Archbishop  Whitoif^ 
wtKn  the  tesemblance  lies  I  confess  I 


oift,  but 


discern.  I  may  obserre,  by  the  way,  that  Ouyon 
is  tte  celebrated  Ouyon  or  Quy  Earl  of  War- 
wick, Uie  son  of  St.  George,  the  Red'Cross  Knight 
of  tlM  preceding  book— so  renowned  in  ronmnee 
for  tlM  temperance  and  moderatton  of  his  charac- 
ter. In  fact,  in  the  early  books  of  the  poem^  we 
know  to  a  certainty  of  but  one  real  charactei' — 
the  fair  huntress  Belphcebe,  who,  the  poet  assures 
ns,  was  meant  for  tbe  qneen,  m  "  &  most  rirtuous 
«nd  beautifol  lady." 

Tbe  queen,  when  the  first  part  of  the  poem  was 
pabVmd,  was  in  her  fifty-serentb  year,  and 
when  we  read  the  glowing  description  of  tbe 
form  and  beaaty  of  BelpEtebe,  we  might  be 
tampted  to  class  SMntar  among  those  adulators 
who  gare  her  all  tW  charms  of  youth  when  she 
wM  an  old  woman.  But  in  so  doing  we  should 
ia  Urn  injoatiix.     Spenser  was  bom  and  lired  in 


London,  as  I  tliink  on  the  southern  or  Kentish 
side  of  the  river.  I  have  shown  that  the  most 
probable  year  of  Ms  birth  was  the  year  luSl, 
and  supposinK  him  when  fifteen  or  sixteen  years  of 
ti%6  to  bare  often  seen  the  queen,  who  was  thtn  we 
may  say  in  her  primej  riding  as  she  always  did 
througU  the  streeis  of  London,  and  probably  in 
huntress'  attire,  to  her  favoutite  palace  of  Green- 
wich to  hunt  the  deer  in  the  pnrk;  or,  supposiug 
that  he  may  at  tloi^a  have  obtained  admisuon 
into  the  park,  and  seen  her  blinding  her  bow  at 
the  flying  game,  may  not  this  sight  haTe  created 
Belpbffibe  in  his  strong  and  susceptible  imagina- 
tion ?  Even  when  he  had  lost  seen  her  before  bis 
going  to  Ireland  in  1580,  tbe  queen  was  only 
forty -seven,  and  her  beauty  was  probably  little  im- 

S aired.  Surely,  then,  the  poet  was  not  to  blame 
jr  deacribing  bcr  in  1590  as  he  recollected  her 
in  her  younger  days. 

I  find,  b}[  tbe  way,  that  there  are  persons  who 
would  sacriSce  historic  truth  to  false  delicacy, 
HOd  who  bUme  me  and  others  for  vindicating  the 
fair  fame  of  the  great  queen  from  tbe  foul  asper- 
sions  of  Dr.  Lingard  and  his  authoiilies,  even 
though  somewhat  at  the  expense  of  her  heroism. 
I  am,  however,  not  of  them,  and  no  literary  act 
of  mine  ever  gave  me  more  sincere  pleasure. 
The  quotation  from  Randolph's  letter  in  one  of 
the  replies  I  regard  as  of  great  iniportonce,  as  it 
proves  that  iol5G5some  of  the  best  informed  per- 
BOOS  knew  or  believed  that  Elizabeth  never  would 
be  a  mother.  The  queen's  words  when  she  was 
informed  of  the  birth  of  Mary's  son  are  also  very 
.lignificant.  As  t«  her  apparently  serious  inten- 
tion of  marrying  Anjou  when  she  was  nearly 
fifty,  it  is  easy  of  explanation.* 

'To  proceeo,  then,  'llmias  and  .^.moret  were  re- 
garded by  some  critics  as  Sir  Walter  Raleigh  and 
Elizabeth  Trogmorton;  but  the  latter  was  in  no 
way  akin  to  tha  queen,  and  Amoret  is  sister  to 
Belpboeba,  lam  therefore  inclined  to  see  in  this 
last  Lettice  Knollys,  the  queen's  cousin,  first  mar- 
ried to  Lord  Essex,  and  then,  to  Eliiabeth's  great 
displeasure,  to  the  Earl  of  Leicester,  whom  I 
take  to  be  Timias,  in  whose  name  there  may  he 
on  allusion  to  Leicester's  motto,  "Droyte  et 
Loyall " ;  he  is  the  squire  of  Prince  Arthur,  and 
tbe  Dudley  family  were  strongly  attached  to  the 
bouse  of  Tudor ;  and  his  being  wounded  by  the 
"  jostere,"  and  securedand  restored  to  health  hy 
Balphcebe,  may  allude  to  the  ruin  of  his  family 
at  the  accession  of  Maiy,  and  its  restoration  by 
that  of  Elizabeth.  By  Sir  Scudamore  may  be 
meant  the  Earl  of  Essex. 

In  Marinel  of  the  Rich  or  Precious  Strond 
Upton  saw  Lord  Howard  of  Effingham,  High 
Admiral  of  England,  and  in  bis  treasures  from 

*  See  Fielding's  Joiah  Aitdrtrnt,  L  ch.  6 1  IforiTsux, 
Ia  Ptjwn  Parwvia,  ukutAt  partis^  nn  fa  Jbc  i 


50 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[it^S-vii, /ii«.ai,7i. 


tneckfL  &c.,  the  apoik  of  the  SpimlBh  AmisdK.  I 
view Marinel  u &pnrelf  poetic cre«lioD,  tnd  trace 
its  origin  thus :  Spencer  ia  hia  Fteto,  ^.,  Tnokea 
mentioD  of  one  Arundel  of  the  Strond  iu  co. 
Cork,  who  wu  formerly  &  great  lord,  but  wm 


east  side  of  ClooBkiltj  B&jr,  named  Arundel  Caatle, 
which  may  have  been  his  lesidenee ;  and  as  he 
may  have  derived  much  of  his  wealth  fiom  Teasels 
wiecked  on  his  coast,  the  poet  ma;  have  formed 
from  him  his  Marinel  His  birth  may  be  an 
imitation  of  that  of  Achilles,  but  there  were,  and 
perhaps  still  are,  legends  on  the  coast  of  Cork  of 
the  union  of  mortab  with  nymphs  of  the  sea. 

In  the  fifth  book  we  come  at  last  on  real  per- 
sons. Arthegal,  for  iuatance,  and  Britomart  have 
hitherto  been  only  the  Rugeiero  and  Bradamante 
of  the  Jf^trioto,  but  now  he  becomes  Arthur  Lord 
Orey,  the  poevs  patron,  The  queen  now  b  Mer- 
cilla,  and  Duessa  the  Queen  of  Scots,  whose  son, 
by  the  way,  was  ea-  offended  at  it  that  he  de- 
manded the  punishment  of  the  poet.  Blandamour 
and  Paridel  are  now  the  two  great  northern  eails 
who  took  np  arms  in  her  cause.  Sir  Burban  is 
Henry  of  Narane,  but  in  Gerioneo  and  Qrantorto 
I  only  see  penonificatdons  of  Philip  and  the 
Spanish  monarchy  and  of  O'Neil  and  the  native 

Sir  Cnlidore,  the  hero  of  the  last  book,  is  the 
'  gallant  Sir  Philip  Sidney ;  Melibee  and  Pastorella, 
Sir  F.  Walsingfaam  and  his  daughter,  wliom  Sid- 
ney married;  Colin  Clout  and  hia  Lssae,  the  poet 
and  his  wife  Elizabeth,  another  phase  of  whose 
character  may,  as  I  have  hinted  elsewhere,  have 
giren  origin  to  Mirabella. 

There  may  be  other  real  persons  in  the  poem, 
but  I  have  not  discovered  them. 

ThOS.  KEIOHILBr. 


I  am  indebted  to  varions  Gaelic-speaking  na- 
tives of  Cantire,  South  Argjleahir«,  for  much  in- 
formation relative  to  the  old  customs  of  their 
West  Highland  district  in  relation  to  births,  roar- 
liages,  and  funerals.  The  notes  that  I  here  give 
from  the  accounts  of  my  informants  may  possibly 
assist  to  preserve  the  memory  of  customs  which 
have  in  many  West  Highland  districts  already 
become  obsolete. 

Uarriaob  Ccsioxs.  —  Early  in  the  present 
century  marriages  were  celebrated  in  Cantire  with 
more  ceremony  and  greater  hilarity  than  is  now 
commonh'  the  case,  except  in  the  more  retired 
glens.    The  raama^e  customs  were  these: — 

Whenayoungp^r  had  got  through  thefeuracA, 
or  contract,  and  had  agreed  to  get  married  with  • 


the  consent  of  their  relatives,  a  night  was  «p- 

Kinted  for  the  reite,  when  the  friends  met  and  a 
1st  was  prepared,  of  which  all  were  hearty  par- 
takers. All  arrangements  were  then  made;  the 
names  of  the  parties  were  recorded  in  the  church 
sesdon-book,  and  were  proclaimed  on  Sabbath. 
Invitations  were  then  given  to  friends  and  neigh- 
bours, who  in  return  generally  sent  a  present  to 
the  bride  by  way  of  contribution  to  the  feast ;  and 
in  this  way,  hens,  ducks,  meal,  butter,  cheese, 
and  even  a  fat  sheep,  would  find  their  way  to  the 
bride's  honse.  The  bridegroom  bad  to  provide 
that  important  part  of  tbe  feast,  the  jar  of 
whiaky;  for  tea  was  but  little  ue^  rixty  years 
ago.  Gunpowder  was  purchased  by  the  young 
men  in  order  to  salute  the  marriage  par^  by  the 
dischaive  of  firearma. 

On  the  morning  of  the  wedding-day  the  wash- 
ing of  the  bride  took  place,  and  after  her  bath 
she  was  dressed  in  her  best  clothes  ready  for  the 
ceremony.  The  bride's  party  assembled  in  the 
house  of  her  parents,  where  the  wedding  fegtivi- 
ties  were  held,  the  bridegroom's  party  meeting 
them  either  at  or  near  to  the  church  or  manse 
where  the  ceremony  was  celebrated.  Pipers 
played  before  each  parfy,  and  shot^  were  fired  as 
they  passed  along. 

The  ceremony  being  over,  the  two  partdee  joined, 
and  returned  together  to  "the  wedding-house  " 
with  great  joy.  A  bam  had  been  cleared  for 
dancing,  where,  after  partaking  of  re&eshmentg, 
the  pipers  and  fiddlers  began  to  play,  and  the 
younr  people  immediately  commenced  dancing,  at 
which  they  were  very  expert,  having  been  pre- 
viously trained  to  such  exercise.  The  dancing 
was  continued  until  the  dinner  was  set  down,  when 
all  the  company  took  their  places  on  either  side  of 
a  long  table.  Grace  having  been  said  and  a  bless- 
ing asked  by  one  of  the  aged  men,  tliey  all  fell-to 
at  the  good  things  provided  for  ijiem,  and  the 
carvers  made  a  round  hand  at  the  fowls,  though 
of  them  wore  not  very  expert  at  separating 
the  joints.  Indeed,  I  remember  being  at  a  wed- 
ding where  there  was  a  strong  man  who  was 
called  upon  to  carve;  but,  not  coming  upon  the 
joints,  he  was  somewhat  puzzled  how  to  divide 
the  fowl  into  peces ;  no  he  began  to  t»ll  a  story 
about  a  s^or  who  was  set  to  carve,  but  could  not 
doit.  "  Upon  which,"  said  theetrongman,  "IwOI 
tell  you  what  the  stulor  did — be  took  the  fat  hen 
in  his  hands,  and  grasping  it  firmly,  tore  it  to 
pieces  in  an  instant."  And  with  this  the  strong 
man  did  the  same ;  aAer  which  they  let  him  eat 
his  dinner  in  peace,  and  gave  him  no  more  fowls 
to  carve. 

After  dinner  the  wedding  com^y  would  set 
to  dance  in  earnest;  before  dinner  it  had  only  been 
a  little  bit  of  exercise  to  whet  their  appetites. 
As  the  dance  was  open  to  all  who  chose  to  come 
and  join  it,  young  men  and  girls  wonld  tnvel 


■555- 


4*S.Vir.  Jaii.!1,TI.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


51 


ft  long  distance  to  be  present  at  the  nurriage  ball, 
to  ivbicb  they  had  admittaoce  on  condition  of 
pkyinB  s  Hinall  sum  "  for  the  floor."  The  ball 
and  the  whit^-drinking  were  kept  up  through 
the  night  until  the  next  iay'e  dawn,  and  it  was 
always  a  late  hour  before  the  bride  waa  put  to 
bed.  After  this  had  been  done  with  ^KKt  cere- 
monj  bj  the  bride's  friends,  and  the  bridegroom's 
own  par^  bad  laid  bim  by  her  aide,  the  company 
gathered  round  them  in  their  bed,  and  drank  to 
ueir  healthii,  to  which  the  bride  and  bridegroom 
replied  in  the  same  manner,  and  the  company 
then  left  them. 

The  next  day  the  wedding  company  again 
assembled,  and  generally  made  a  happT  da^  of  it 
with  feasting,  walking,  dancing,  and  firmg  of 
guns  and  pistols  until  the  evening,  when  they  dis- 
persed. Such  wSH  the  fashion  of  marri^es  in 
Cantire  early  in  the  present  century,  but  things 
are  much  nltered  now,  although  certfuu  customs 
are  stiU  retuoed,  especially  those  which  relate  to 
the  danung  and  the  whisky.  Now-a-days,  when 
the  wedding  psr^  have  assembled  to  dinner,  they 
will  withdraw  to  the  nearest  public-house,  where 
"  the  best  men  "  will  go  round  the  company  with 
waiters,  receiving  an  equal  sum  of  money  from 
each  person — sometimes  aa  much  as  three  ahillinga 
or  more  from  every  guest.  The  whole  of  this 
sum  is  at  once  sunk  in  the  purchase  of  whisky, 
and  the  natural  consequence  is  that  the  diversions 
of  the  evemng  too  often  terminate  in  anything  but 
harmony  and  goodwill. 

Baftishal  CxrsTOits. — The  baptism  of  in&nts 
waa  considered  a  veiy  important  ceremony  in 
Cantire  ;  for,  in  addition  to  its  scriptural  import, 
it  was  thought  to  be  a  tempoTal  charm.  Some 
people  imagined  that  a  child  would  not  grow 
nnleas  it  were  baptised,  and  all  were  of  opinion 
that  it  was  bud  luck  to  have  an  unhaptisea  child 
in  the  house :  hence  it  happened  that  parents  and 
guAidians  brought  infanta  to  be  baptis^  however 
lUegifimate  the  children  misht  be,  and  however 
ignorant  the  parents  might  be.  In  cases  of  ille- 
gitimacy the  church  exacted  a  fine  of  the  delin- 
quents; and  if  the  fine  was  not  paid,  means  were 
used  (sixty  years  ago,  and  prior  to  that!  to  send 
the  fathers  to  the  armv  and  navy,  in  which  way 
many  of  the  Highlanders  became  soldiers  and 
seamen;  hence  arose  the  proverb,  "An  ill-got 
Iwim  oft«n  makes  a  good  soldier." 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Robertson,  minister  of  the  parish 
of  Cwopbelton,  and  "  collegiate  "  with  Dr.  Smith 
and  Dr.  McLeod,  was  very  severe  on  those  who 
conld  not  answer  bis  qneatdona  on  these  occaaions. 
A  man  named  McNeil  once  came  to  the  old 
doctor,  bringing  his  child  for  baptism  j  but  not 
bring  able  to  answer  the  minister  e  queations,  the 
doctor  took  a  young  man  of  the  companj  aside 
nd  «xamined  lum,  and  made  him  to  bold  up  the 


child  to  get  it  baptised.    Tbiadiamed  McNeil  and 
made  him  more  careful  for  the  future. 

The  celebration  of  the  baptismal  ceremony  was 
attended  with  s  great  display  of  hospitality  on  tha 
part  of  the  parents,  who  mvited  their  friendii  and 
neighbours  tothechristeningfeast.  Aiarofwbisky 
havmg  been  provided,  sponsors  were  <^osen,  whom 
they  called  "([oistie"  and  "  banna-goistie.  The 
care  of  the  wmskey  was  entrusted  to  the"  goislie," 
and  the  "banna-goistie"  (or  female  gossip)  had 
the  cha;^  of  the  eatables.  The  in&nt  was  then 
given  up  by  the  "bonheen"  (uling  mother)  to 
the  company,  and  was  carried  away  to  church  or 
to  the  minister's  house;  the  company  also  took 
with  them  bread  and  cheese,  and  pins  to  be 
divided  upon  their  return  home  among  the  young 
men  and  maids,  that  they  might  in  (Ueams  have 
a  view  of  their  future  partners. 

Sometimes  the  merrv-maldng  on  these  bap- 
tismal journeys  was  suffered  to  lead  the  company 
astray,  and  cause  them  to  forget  the  cauae  and 
object  of  their  undertaking.  A  baptismal  com- 
pany was  once  crossing  the  mountains  between 
Laigie  and  Saddell,  and  rested  on  the  road  to  take 
B  re&eshment  of  bread  and  cheese  and  whisky ; 
after  which  they  proceeded  on  their  way,  and 
arrived  at  the  monae.  The  minister  had  begun 
the  ceremony,  when  they  found  that  the  infuit 
was  not  present.  "  Where  is  the  child  P  "  was  the 

Suestion ;  and  "  Have  you  it  t "  "  Have  you  it  ?  " 
le  females  were  asking  one  another,  but  no  child 
could  be  found.  At  last,  the  one  who  had  been 
carrying  the  child  up  to  that  place  where  they 
had  stayed  on  their  way  for  le&eahment  called 
to  mind  that  she  had  laid  it  down  among  the 
heather,  and  had  supposed  that  some  one  else 
must  have  picked  it  up  and  brought  it  to  the 
manse;  but  as  this  was  not  the  esse,  they  had 
nothing  for  it  hut  to  retrace  their  steps  to  the 
place  in  question,  which  they  did  without  delay, 
and  found  the  child  lying  quite  safely  where  it 
had  been  left  on  its  bed  of  heather.  Then  they 
brought  it  back  to  the  manse  and  had  it  baptised. 

FuifSttAL  CuBTOKS.— Up  to  siity  years  ^o  it 
was  the  custom  in  Cantire,  when  anyone  had  de- 
parted this  life,  for  the  friends  of  the  deceased  to 
provide  the  necessaries  for  the  accommodation 
and  refreshment  of  viMtora.  The  corpse  was 
wrapped  in  oUanach  (woollen),  and  walced  day 
and  night  until  it  was  interred.  A  pan  of  salt 
was  placed  upon  its  breast,  and  it  was  stretched 
upon  a  platform,  over  which  was  erected  a  tent 
of  white  linen ;  within  this  tent  candles  were  kept 
alight  day  and  night  until  the  time  of  burial. 
The  neighbours  rave  up  their  work,  and  attended 
in  the  house.  The  Bible  and  other  religious  books 
were  lud  upon  a  table  and  perused  by  the  htchd 
faWe  (watchers):  devotional  exercises  were  per- 
formed each  night  and  morning;  plenty  of  oataa 


52 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»s.  VII.  jAB-si,*; 


cakM  and  cfaeese,  with  whiskf,  wbb  seired  at  io- 
tervals,  and  fMnuetliiiie  wb£  said  in  praiw  of  the 
decessed.  "  At  iDtarvala,"  continued  my  informant, 
"  the  relatiTes  dropped  s  gentle  teai." 

When  the  time  of  the  funeral  came  the  com- 
psQT  was  aerved  with  bread  wid  chetee  and 
'whisky.  The  coffin  was  then  carried  forth  and 
put  on  "spatea,"  the  people  carrying  it  by  turns 
to  the  grave ;  but  before  the  funeral  procesaion 
was  out  of  eight,  the  atraw  in  the  bed  on  which 
the  deceased  had  died  nas  taken  out  and  burnt. 
Very  often  the  procession  was  headed  by  a  piper 
01-  iy  ft  person  playinc  "The  Land  o'  the  lial," 

■  or  some  other  mournful  ajr,  on  "  the  Lochaber 
trump ''  (»'.  e.  the  Jew'a,  or  rather  jaw's,  harp). 
After  the  interment,  and  when  the  grave  was 
neatlj  cohered  in  with  green  soda,  the   neareat 

,  relative  to  the  deceased  thanked  the  company  for 
their  good  attt^dance.  Bread  and  cheese  and 
whisky  were  then  served  round ;  after  which  the 
company  departed  to  their  own  homes. 

CcTHBEiti  Bede. 


SHAKSPERE'S  DEATH  :  SOCIAL  GENEALOGY. 

Under  date  January  8, 1856,  Nathaniel  Haw- 

iboTaewKte(I^»iagei/rom  (he  .English  Xote-BotAi 

of  yothaniel  Sawthome,  i.  166-0)  :— 

"  1  dined  tl  Mr.  Williita  Bmwn'a  (M.F.)  last  evBniog 

with  ■  Urge  parly Speaking  of  Shaliespiian, 

Mr. flaid  that  the  Dul£«  of  Somfraet,  who  i>  now 

neariv  fourscore,  told  him  that  tha  falhci  of  John  and 
Cborles  Komlile  bad  made  all  poseible  research  into  the 

to  believe  that  Shakeepeire  atUoded  a  cwtain  revel  at 
Stratford,  and  indnlgin^  too  nneh  in  the  ecmvivialil}'  of 
the  occasion,  he  tumbled  into  a  ditch  on  his  way  home, 
and  died  there '.  The  Kemble  patriarch  was  an  aged 
man  when  he  commiuiicatHl  this  to  the  duke,  and  their 
ogee  linlied  to  each  other  would  extend  hack  a  (rood  wa;, 
scarcely  to  the  beginning  of  the  last  cmtniy  however. 
If  I  mistaka  not.  it  waa  Atun  the  tndlcionB  of  Stratford 
that  Kemble  bad  learned  the  above.  I  do  not  remember 
ever  to  have  seen  it  print— which  is  roost  singular." 

Not  do  I;  and  as  it  may  be  new  to  many 
others,  I,  in  accordance  with  the  motto  of 
"N.  &  Q.,"  "  make  a  note  of  iL'"  It  is  very 
curioua  how  little  we  know  about  Shakapere,  and 
the  more  so  conndering  the  few  lives  intervening 
between  his  death  and  the  date  of  hia  first  biogra- 
pher, IjeighHunt  (to  whom  most  ideasof  the  kind 
were  sure  to  occur,  and  form  food  for  ingenious 
epeoulation)  baa  happily  worked  out  the  bought 
contained  in  Hawthorne's  note,  in  an  article  en- 
titled Socio/  Genealogy,  from  which  the  following 
extract  may  be  acceptable : — 

"  It  in  a  carions  and  pleasant  thing  to  consider,  that  a 
link  of  penwnal  acquaiutance  can  be  traced  up  from  the 
authors  of  onr  own  timu  to  tboM  of  Shakspnre,  and  to 
Shakspeare  himaelf. Pi^n,  when  ■  child,  pre- 
vailed on  some  frienda  to  take  him  to  a  coffte-bouae 
Which   Dryden  frequented. Now  aach  of  ns  as 


have  ahiken  handa  wifli  a  living  poet  might  be  able,  per- 
haps, to  reckon  np  a  series  of  canneettng  shakea  ID  the 
very  band  that  wroto  of  Hamlet  and  of  Falataff  and  of 
Drademoita.  With  iciine  liviog  poela  it  is  certain.*  There 
ia  Thomas  Moore,  for  insunca,  who  knew  ^eridan. 
Sheridan  knew  Jofanson.who  was  the  friend  of  Savage, who 
knew  Steele,  who  knew. Pope.  Pope  was  intimate  with 
Congreve,  and  Con  grave  with  Dryden.  Dryden  ia  said  to 
hare  visited  Milton.  Milton  is  said  to  have  known 
DavinaDt,  and  to  have  lieen  saved  by  him  from  the  re- 
venge oif  the  rsstored  court  in  mtura  for  having  saved 
DiTCuant  from  the  revenge  of  the  Commonwealth.  Bat 
if  the  link  betwesD  Di^den  and  Milton,  and  Mil  ion  and 
Davenant  is  somewhat  apocrypba),  or  rather  dependent  mi 
tradition  (for  Richardson,  the  painter,  (ells  ns  the  latter 
(rom  Pope,  who  had  it  from  Betterton  the  actor,  one  of 
Davenaut's  company),  it  may  be  carried  at  ooce  from 
Dryden  to  Davenant,  with  w^om  he  was  unquestionably 
intimate.  Davenant,  then,  knew  Hobbeii,  who  knew 
Bacon,  who  knew  Ben  Jonson,  who  was  intimate  with 
Beanmoat  and  Fletcher,  Chapman.  Donne,  Drayton, 
CamdeD.Seldan,CUrondi»i,Kvdney,Baleigb,and  peAaps 
all  Uie  good  men  of  Eliubeth'i  and  James's  lime,  the 
greatest  of  theni  all  undoubtedly. 


e  have  a  link 


Lmy   1 


thorities  (all  set  forth  at  length)  for  this  "intel- 
lectual pedigree,"  I  must  refer  the  reader  to  the 
article  itself,  which  has  been  recently  reprinted 
by  Mr.  Hotten  in  A  Tale  for  a  Chinaiey  Corner, 
and  other  Eitayt,  from  the  Indkalor,  1810-21— n 
little  Tolume  edited  by  Mr.  Edmund  Oilier,  whoto 
biographical  introduction  is  not  only  a  very  per- 
fect bit  of  writing  as  to  style,  but  ia  a  delicious  bit 
of  ^predalive  critidsm  worthy  its  subject,  and  a 
pleasant  picture  of  Leigh  Hunt  by  one  who  knew 


elL 


main  subject  of  this  note,  Z 
may  add  ttat  in  "N.  &  Q.'*  for  March  2, 1861 
(2^  S.  xi.  162-3),  are  given  two  instancee  of  the 
memory  of  two  persons  extending  over  150  years, 
and  luildns  together  the  reigns  of  Anne  and 
Oeoiffe  III.      Doubtless  many   more  could    be 


9.  R.  TowssgEND  Mater. 


found  if  sought  for. 
Richmond,  S.W. 


Chbistmaa  Muumem  and  PLoroH-wircHEHB. 
'rhie  journal  being  the  chosen  lepoaitoiy  for  the 
dates  and  particulirs  of  popular  customs,  I  may 
here  slate  that  the  Christmas  mummers  came  to 
my  house  in  Hunlingdonahire  in  the  Chriatmaa 
week  of  1870-1,  and  acted  the  old  masque  oT 
"  Oeorge  and  the  Dragon,"  with  the  characters  of 
Bold  Buonaparte,  the  Turkish  Knight,  Little  Jade, 
Devildoubt,  the  Doctor,  &c.  The  party  of  boys 
who  performed  this  mtmuner'B  maeqne  were  cos- 
tumed for  the  occadoQ,  and  went  through  the 
|riece  with  much  spirit  "^^fj  ^*A  haea  orally 
taught  th»  words,  which  dimred  but  elightlf 


■  Originally  w 


published  iu  1819. 


4*  8.  Til.  Jin.  SI,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


53 


from  Tendons  that  I  hkd  prsTiouslj  heard  in  Wor- 
cestenhire  and  eUewhere,  and  which  have  been 
recotded  ia  former  Tolumes  of  "  N.  ft  Q."  I  maj 
alao  add  that  the  Plougb-witchen  came  as  usual 
to  my  house  on  the  eTeoing  or  Plough  Monday 
(Jan.  9),  rattling  their  cans  and  asking  for  maaej. 
CCTHBERT  BXDX. 
[¥»ptn  on  Cbriitrou  Hammera  nill  b«  fi»Dd  in  £°'' 
3.x.4M,4G6;  xi.271;  ziL48T)  Sni  3.  i.  66  ;  it.  486.] 

ThsSlmiopBbkdi.:  Tobacco.— Theneve  of 
Breda  was  one  of  the  most  celebrated  sieges  of  the 
MTenteenth  centniy,  and  is  frequently  mentioned 
bj  the  old  English  dramatists.  Spinola  sat  down 
before  Breda  on  August  26, 1624,  and  the  town 
did  not  surreoder  until  July  1  in  the  following 
year.  The  besieged  Buffered  incredible  hardships. 
"  Butter,"  says  the  historian  Herman  Hugo,  "  was 
Mdd  for  six  florins  a  pound;  a  calf  of  seTsnteen 
days  old  for  forty-eight;  a  hog,  for  one  hundred 
and  fifteen ;  and  tobncco  for  one  hundred  florins 
I  was  after  they  had  consumed 
A  few  days  after,  the  narrator 
adde  that  "  as  much  tobacco  as  in  other  places 
might  have  been  had  for  ten  florins  was  sold  in 
Breda  for  twelve  bnodred."  It  appears  tbet  this 
tobacco  was  used  as  "  phync,  it  being  the  only 
remedy  tbey  had  against  scurry."  Ml. 

Tee  PR£TEin>EB's  Cordiai,. —    - 


of  2  lemons,  the  rinda  pared ;  and  pat  in  tbree-pcniiy- 
worth  of'aaSroD.  Lei  thia  sCutd  two  or  tbres  dsfs, 
ahaking  it  twice  t-daj ;  then  nm  it  throvgb  a  flannel- 
bag  for  nag."    (_Fnm  a  MS.  ptaalht  Ptttg/aMilf.) 

MoOKUHn  LiD. 

Epitafb  at  Wims  Ckitbch.  —  As  allusion  has 
Utely  been  made  to  the  parish  of  Win^,  co. 
Backs,  H  may  be  interesting  to  note  that  in  the 
naTs  <H  the  church  there  is  a  curious  brats-plate 
bearing  ^e  effigy  of  a  man  in  a  cloah  kneeling, 
with  a  port«r's  staff  nnder  his  feet,  and  a  hi^h- 
crownea  hat,  and  a  large  key  lying  behind  him. 
Hia  hands  are  lifted  np  as  if  in  prayer,  and 
below  is  the  following  inscription: — 
**  Honest  old  Thomas  Cotes,  that  aometimea  waa 

Part«r  at  Aaeott  Hall,'  hath  now  (alas ))     . 

Left  hla  ker,  ki^«,  frre,  frienda,  and  all  to  baTe 

A  rooB  in  hearen.    I'liia  is  that  good  man'i  grava. 

Kcader.  prapaie  for  thina^  for  nooB  caa  tall, 

But  that  you  two  mav  meet  to-night^-Farewdl. 
Be  died  W^  Movenber,  1G4S. 
ppoiotmeiit  and  cha 
Gm>.  HovoHToer.' 

G.  F.  D. 

ADAH  SE  Okletoit. — Few  ecclewastical  states- 
men of  the  fourteenth  century  have  been  more 
thoTOUgUy  nuannderstood  and  unfairly  malinied 
than  Adam  de  Orleton,  whose  memory  baa  been 
made  to  suffer  for  a  mnltitnde  of  mns  be  assuredly 
*  tortatrlj  a  seat  of  the  Donnen. 


r  committed  in  the  flesh.  Amonnt  then 
is  the  "fable  "  of  hia  havinff  written  Uke  Latiii 
epistle  mentioned  br  Mr.  'Tew  (4'^  8.  vi.  S80) 
■■-  the  keepers  of  Eaward  II.  at  Berkeley  Castl^ 
often  improperly  quoted  to  hie  prejuoice.  I^ 
indeed,  there  is  one  thing  more  certwn  than 
another  in  connection  with  Adam  de  Orleton,  it 
is  that  he  never  wrote  the  letter  in  question,  and 
eqnallT  untrue  that  he  ever  "  ownea  it,  but  ^- 
tended  his  meaning  was  horribly  mistaken."  Hit 
polii^  at  the  time  of  Edward's  incarceration  was 
m  direct  contradiction  te  the  assamption  of  bis 
being  the  writer  of  those  words,  even  to  the  ex- 
tent of  its  being  impossible  he  could  have  done 
BO,  as  may  be  readily  ascertunad  by  those  who  - 
feel  interested  in  the  subject.     Hehbi  F.  Holt. 

Kite's  Road,  Clapham  Park. 

General  Wolts  Aim  the  20th  Foot. — In 
your  First  Series  (vol.  ii.)  I  observe  some  notices 
of  General  Woife,  which  remind  me  of  what  I 
understand  was  a  fact  that  merits  being  recorded 
in  "  N.  &  Q."  He  entered  the  umy  as  euuKn  in 
the  30th  foot,  which  was  and  still  is  distinguished 
as  Wolfe's  regiment,  not  from  any  other  official 
connection,  but  solely  from  his  eminence  and 
glorious  death.  Now  it  happened  that  the  20th 
was  in  garrison  at  St.  Helena  when  N^Kdeon 
died,  ana  the  bearers  at  his  body  to  the  grave 
were  grenadiers  of  Wolfe's  regiment.  Q. 

Edinbugb. 

The  Peophect  of  Oeval. — This  w»«  eageily 
read,  and  eitenaively  believed  in,  at  the  lime  of 
its  appearance  in  an  Eoghsh  translation  in  the 
eventtnl  year  1848.  But  it  sunk  into  merited 
neglect  when  in  the  following  year  it  was  de- 
nounced by  the  Bishop  erf  Verdun,  as  an  admitted 
fabrication  of  a  priest  of  hia  diocese.  See  the 
bishop's  circular  m  The  Tablet  of  April  7, 1S49. 
F.  C.  H. 


WrrcHCRiTT.— The  following  advertisement  is 
worth  a  place  in  the  old  curiosity -shojps  of  f"!'!" 


of  follies 
and  fancies  which  the  contributors  of^"N.  &Q." 
are  bo  plentifully  furnishing  for  the  edification  of 
the  future.  It  was  issued  with  a  number  of  the 
SpiHtual  JUagazhi*  in  the  year  1868  —  that  i^ 
in  the  nineteenth  century  of  Christian  dviliiation. 
and  in  what  its  sons  claim  as  the  most  enlightened 
city  of  the  most  enlighteaed  nation  on  the  face  of 
the  earth.  How  iaz  this  theory  is  supported  bjr 
the  following  document,  I  leave  to  the  judgment 
of  complacent  Londoners : — 

"  A  (lOitlemla  boBg  bevllched  br  a  hlrad  If  an-WHeb 
in  his  immediate  nrigbbouriMod,  mied  and  mrcnnHy 
paid,  daring  Sii  years,  ■  flsed  mm  of  miHiey  yaaily,  b^ 
miacrunta.  Tar  hu  criminal  aerricea,  under  tba  imraudty 
secnred  to  Ihetn  by  the  Sutute  9  George  IT.  e.  5,  for  the 
crime  of  Witchcraft ;  would  be  glad  to  obuin  the  aid 
of  any  Hedium  who  mifsht  be  abK  by  Spentnl  Sigbt, 
bv  Cuirvoyan™,  or  by  Trance,  to  aiford  such  cloe  fbr 
tfae  identiScation  In  the  aanae  of  fact,  of  the  aaid  hlred'M 
Man-Witch,  In  lila  peraonal  and  indiTldaalcapad^lbr^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


li'^s.  vn.J*s.2i,  T!. 


tha  praeticil  purpose,  u  Tonld  render  poirabU  ui  appli- 
catioQ  to  ■  M»gistrate"8  Court,  for  &  Warunt  or  Sum- 
B0DBagMD9t  bim  in  the  present  state  of  the  Law. — Ad- 

"'    ■    '    "      "^  W.  E.  A..  A. 

Jo^aon  Street,  Strange  ways. 
"Le  Coa  FEAKCiis."  —  "The  imbroken  self- 
confidence  whicli  the  French,  like  the  AtbeniBns, 
hftve  ever  retained  amidst  the  (^ateat  diaftsten  " 
is    refaned  to  hj  Dr.  Arnold  in  hia  notes  on 
^ucjdidea,  i.  TO,  whera  he  quotes  an  epigram, 
whicE  maj  be  found  in  tlie  appendix  to  one  of 
the   ToIameB  of  Gen,  Dumas'   Campagnet,  most 
aingularlf  illuatiative  uf  thair  preaent  attitude : — 
"Le  coq  fran^ils  est  le  coq  de  la  gloire, 
Par  les  revere  il  n'est  point  abitta  ; 
n  chante  fort,  qaaad  il  ^agiie  la  victoire, 
Plus  fort  encore,  quBod  il  est  bien  bittu. 
Chanter  Ioujohts  est  s*  gnmde  vcriu." 

C.  W.  BiNOHiM. 

Milton  and  Hoikeopatht.  —  Habnemnnn  is 

said  to  be  the  author  of  homceopatby,  but  waa  he 
really  soP  Milton,  in  his  preface  to  Saintoa 
Agonisteg,  haa  this  passage  : — 

"  Tragedy,  said  by  Aristotle  to  be  of  power,  by  raising 
pit;  and  feiir  or  terror,  to  pnrgs  the  mind  of  Uiose  and 
such  like  passiona — that  is,  to  temper  and  reduce  them  to 
Just  measure  with  a  kind  of  delight,  stirred  np  by  reading 
or  seeing  those  passions  well  imitated.  Nor  is  Nature 
wanting  in  her  own  efforta  to  make  good  his  assertion  : 
for  BO  in  physic,  things  of  melancbolie  bna  and  quality 
are  used  against  melancholy,  sour  against  soDr,  salt  to 
remove  salt  humour?." 

This  proves  that  homceapathj  was  practised  in 
Hilton's  time,  and  even  Hippocrates  alludes  to  it. 
The  passage  from  that  writer  was  given  me  in 
the  oriainul  some  time  szo,  but  I  have  mislaid  it, 
and  I  uiould  feel  obliged  if  fou  would  quote  it 
inanearlynuiubeT.  The  minim  dosesofthepresent 
Any  are  not  alluded  to,  as  I  remember,  even  in 
Hahnemann's  Organon :  the;  seem  to  have  nrigen 
from  the  assumption  that,  as  the  proper  medicine 
was  to  be  applied,  the  smallest  quantity  would 
suffice  foe  the  cure.  G.  B. 

TTbt.tcitttt. — It  may  be  useful  to  some  readers 
of  "  N.  ft  Q."  to  be  informed  that  an  account  of 
this  new  kind  of  indelible  photography — admirable 
for  illustrating  books  and  copying  slietches  and 
works  of  the  great  masters,  impossible  otherwise 
to  be  giveu  in  fac-aimile  bichrome — will  be  found 
in  Art  Pictorial  and  lndtutriai  (No  4),  for  October 


The  patentees,  i 


s.  Edwards  and  Kidd,  will  be 


happy  to  show  roecimens  to  anv  readers  o 
re^ndeuts  of  "N.   &  Q."  who  may  c»ll    at 
93,  Henrietta  Street,  Covent  Garden. 

8.  B.  ToirasHBKD  MiTBB. 


"  ALiaCiHDO  DOEMITAT  B0SU9  HoiEEBUa  "  (4'" 
S.  vi  407.) — Where  is  this  sentence  to  be  found  ? 
I  have  often  used  its  English  equivalent,  but  I 
know  nothing  of  the  Latin  quoted  by  Ms.  J.  A. 
PrcTOH  (Hi  jupro).  Stephen  Jackbox. 

[Tba  passage  is  from  Horace,  St  Arte  Fattica, 
ver,  868,  4c— 

Indignor,  qoandoque  bonna  dormitat  Honierna."1 

Ahonyxous- — I  have  a  book  endtted — 

"  Pleasing  Melancholy  j  or,  a  Walk  among  the  Tombs 

in  a  Country  Churchyard,  in  the  style  aad  manner  of 

'  Hervey's  Meditations';   to  which  are  added  Epitaphs, 

Elegies,  and  Inscriptions  in  Prose  and  Verae." 


compiler  P  Jaices  Keis. 

IS,  High  Sli«et,  Faialey. 
BiBLioTHKCA  InnicA. — 

"The  Mnntakhab  alTawdrikh  al  Uadauni— Persian 
text— Edited  by  Capt.  W.  N.  Lees,  LL.D.,  Calcutta, 
I84G,  published  by  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Beug]!!," 

What  Bie  the  dates  of  the  AISS.  followed  in 
preparing  the  above  edition  of  Abdul  Qadir's 
valuable  history  of  the  reign  of  Akbar,  finished  in 
A.S.  1001  (a.d.  1695),  and  how  can  the  original 
matter  be  distinguished  from  subsequent  interpo- 
lations when  this  information  is  not  c^ven  f 

R.  R.  W.  Elmh. 

StarcrosB,  near  Exeter. 

Daubzon^  Monument.  —  In  the  church  of 
Brize-Norton  (Norton  S.  Brice),  Oron,  is  a 
monumental  nlab  to  the  memory  of  Sir  John 
Daubygn^.  The  date  is  13i6,  and  the  knight  is 
represented  boldly  iu  effigy.  His  legs  are  crossed, 
and  at  his  feet  crouches  a  lion.  It  is  unusuallv 
rich  in  its  heraldic  sculpture,  bung  charged  witi 
five  escutcheons.  The  chief  of  these  covers  the 
knight's  body,  and  bears  four  fumis  conjoined  in 
fesse,  each  charged  with  a  pierced  mullet.  The 
remaining  four  escutcheons  occupy  the  four  cor- 
ners of  the  tomb.  One  of  them  bears  the  foiu: 
fusils  plain;  another  has  the  fusils  ermine.  Of 
the  remaining  two  one  b  either  loiengy  or  mas- 
celly — I  cannot  say  which,  as  the  stone  is  worn ; 
but  I  fancied  that  I  could  detect  an  ermine  spot 
on  one  of  iha  divisions,  in  which  case  it  would 
suggest  the  arms  of  Rokele— "masculy  d'ermyn 
et  de  goulz."  (Roll  Hen.  111.)  Some  of  your 
readers,  better  acquainted  with  the  DaubygnS 
pedigToe  than  myself,  will  probably  be  able  to 
dedde.  The  remuning  escutcheon  bears  two 
chevTonels  within  a  borauie  engrailed. 

It  is  probable  that  some  notice  of  so  rich  a 
specimen  of  monumental  art  will  have  been  taken 
byothersi  buti  venture  to  send  it  to  "N.  &  Q." 
as  an  additional  security  agunst  its  being  lost 
ught  of.    "the  monument  is  valued  in  the  parish, 


•B.TIL  Jaj.S1,'.X] 


\OTES  AND  QUERIES. 


and  is  in  a  Mtlj  Bate  poailioD.  The  church 
^nerallT  will  repay  &  Tisit.  W.  M.  H.  C. 

P.S. — What  connection,  if  any,  is  there  between 
DaubjgcS  and  D'Albini  P 

TaE  Rhv.  John  Entt. — There  ia  a  abort  notice 
of  the  Rev.  J.  Enly  b;f  John  Fox  in  the  Monthly 
Mittdkmy  (ivi  3^5),  1821,  where  it  ia  Btated 
'  that  he  was  the  eon  of  a  tailot  in  Cornwall,  and 
died  in  1743.  "  Mr.  Eut?  naa  enpiged  in  the 
controversy  among  the  Dissenters  in  the  West 
coDceruing  the  TnnitT."  Where  is  there  anv 
lurther  accoont  to  be  foond  of  Mr.  Entr'a  life  and 
writioge  P  Geo.  C.  Boasb. 

Eleven  Swnjjsa  Pisces  of  Chables  L  — 
A  lady  making  her  will,  in  theieign  of  CharlesL, 
leaves  to  one  of  her  dependenta  a  legacy  of  four 
eleven  ehilling  pieces.  Waa  this  an  En^lisb  coin  P 
And  if  to,  how  long  did  it  continue  in  circulation  P 
E.P. 

Fkivseb  :  Frisel. — Unheroldically  speaking^  are 
not  the  three  etrawbeny  leaver  in  the  Fraser 
coat  properlj  blosBoms = five  petals  argent  P  With 
whom  did  thie  coat  originate?  What  ia  the  date 
of  tbe  first  exam^e  of  itp  When  was  the  name 
lint  altered  from  Friael  to  Fraser  F  Has  Sir  Hsrria 
Xicolaa  left  anv  annotations  on  tbe  Fiisel  of 
liattle  Abbey  roll,  and  are  there  any  noticea  of  the 
name  before  the  period  io  cLueatdon  in  connection 
with  Norman  charters  P  Any  information  on  the 
five  qneries  would  much  oblige.  Sp. 

Pediorse  of  B.  R  Hatdou,  iks  Hutobicai 
Paiittbr. — In  the  Autobiogra^y  and  JoumaU  of 
B.  JL  Haydon  (2nd  ed.  1853,  i.  4),  tbe  writer 
atatea  that  bis  "father  waa  a  Uneal  descendant  of 

the  Haydons  of  Cadhay."     Is  there  an^ 

evidence  in  favour  of  this  statement  P  None  is 
siven  in  the  work  quoted.  Perhaps  some  mem- 
ber of  the  artiat's  family  may  be  able  to  answer 
this  question.  N. 

"Bona  TO  CflAiRMDr,"  — Can  any  one  say 
where  the  above  mav  be  obtained,  or  any  book 
on  the  duties  of  the  chtur  at  public  meetings  P 

W. 

BrighlOD. 

"  The  Hkaviho  op  thb  Leah." — ^Who  wrote 
this  fine  old  sea  songp  Dr.  Mackay  ^ves  it  to 
the  late  Kichard  Scrafton  Sbarpe,  bat  1  think  be 
is  mistaken.  I  ohonld  like  to  see  in  "  N.  &  Q."  a 
complete  list  of  Mr.  Sharpe's  writings.  I  only 
know  "  Old  fViends  with  new  Faces,"  and  three 
songs,  viz.,  "  Pretty  Rose  of  Lucerne,"  a  harvest 
fons,  and  that  charmmg  pastoral,  "Tell  me,  ye 
Fwams,  have  you  seen  my  PRstora  P"  Mr.  Sharpe, 
with  whom  I  was  intimately  acquainted,  informed 
me  that  be  was  the  author  of  the  above.  I  have 
HiQcs  Hr.  Sharpe's  decease  been  told  that  the  pas- 
tonl  "  Shepherds,  I  have  tost  my  love,"  was  also 


from  his  pen.  Is  this  correct?  Tbe  "OIJ 
Friends"  well  merits  a  reprint,  with  a  memoir  ol 
tbe  talented  author.  Jambs  Hbkry  Dixok. 

Abm8  op  Jennottb.  —  Your  correspondent 
A.  W.  M.  has  kindly  helped  me  to  tbe«e  anna, 
for  which  I  had  been  enquiring.  Can  he  further 
inform  me  what  connection  there  hsd  been,  tetnp. 
Klizabetb,  between  the  (amilv  of  Jennour,  of 
£aaex,  and  either  Larder,  Barket,  Seymour,  or 
Storks?  All  these  came  in,  with  Jennour,  into 
the  arms  of  Husey,  of  Shapwick,  Dorset,  by  the 
marriage  of  Mary,  daughter  of  Thomas  Barket, 
of  Dewlish,  and  coheiress  of  ber  motber,  Ursula 
Larder,  to  Thomas  Husey,  temp.  I^zabeth. 

W.  M.  H.  Chttkcb. 

Db.  Johsbor's  Watch. — I  some  time  ago  (4'" 
S.  vi.  S75,  46S}  made  inqniries  respecting  Dr. 
Samuel  Johnson's  watch.  The  only  reply  which 
I  got  was  from  a  correspondent  who  referred  me 
to  Wood's  CuriosUiet  of  Clockt  and  Walcke*,  where 
the  only  information  given  is  that  it  is  reverently 
preserved  by  its  owner.  But  I  am  anxious  of 
getting  more  detailed  particulars.  I  should  like 
to  know  whether  it  is  a  gold  or  metal  watrh, 
whether  it  is  a  repeater,  what  sort  of  a  dial 

flate  it  has,  whether  enamel  or  metal  (we 
now  be  had  tbe  dial  plate  changed),  and  whe- 
ther tbe  hours'  figures  are  in  Roman  letters  or 
Arabic  nnmerala ;  and,  lastly,  the  maker's  name  P 
And  I  shall  be  much  obliged  if  any  one  can  inform 
me  of  any  of  these  particulars. 

OCIAVIITS  MOBOAK. 

"Deb  bbleoibte  Eodbolx,"  bic.— Can  any 
correspondent  tell  me  anything  of  Der  r^girle 
Eabhold,  or  of  the  Oetchichte  det  beriihmtm  Berg- 
geitU  Gnome  auf  den  Sudeten  f  Harrow. 

EinQMT  OF  THB  BODT  AKH   EsaTltBB  OF  TltB 

BoDT.  — What  would  be  the  duties  and  what  tbe 

dignity  of  a  fcni^  and  an  eaqniie  of  the  king's 

body  to  Henry  VH.  and  VIU.  f  P.  P. 

CuBions  Marriage  CnsToic. — Can  any  of  the 

readers  of  "N.  &  Q."  give  me  the  origin  of  the 
following  cnrious  marriage  costom,  which  prevuls, 
or  at  all  events  did  prevwl  Borne  twenty  years  ago, 
among  the  agricultural  population  of  Aberdeen- 
shire P  The  marriage  usually  takes  place  at  tbe 
house  of  the  bride^  father,  to  which  it  is  cus- 
tomary for  the  bridegroom,  when  the  distance  is 
reasonable,  to  walk  on  foot,  supported  by  two 
"  groom's  maids,"  and  accompanied  by  thoae 
friends  who  have  accepted  his  invitation  to  be 
present  at  the  ceremony,  Jost  as  the  procesraon 
starts,  or  is  about  starting,  two  young  men,  se- 
lected from  the  bridegroom's  party,  who  ara 
designated  >en>  ("  sends,"  or  messenseis  who  are 
sent),  hurry  offto  apprise  the  bride  of  his  approadi.  ,< 
When  a  youth  of  fifteen  years  old,  I  wm  on  OM^ 
occasion  hastily  improvised  into  a  "sen";  and, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*»aVIL  J4i..2l,71. 


ma  netu-  as  I  can  recollect,  the  mewage  delivered 
bj  my  colleagae  to  the  bride  was  as  follows ;  "The 
bridegroom  presents  his  complimeuts,  and  requests 
OS  to  aay  that  be  will  sood  be  beie." 

What  is  the  object  of  the  above  custom,  and 
how  01  when  did  it  originate  f  A.  Faxkbson. 
"The  pROBiOiX  Son."— I  saw  some  years  ago 
a  sat  of  cottage  prints  intended  to  illustrat«  thie 
subject^  but  representing  everything  as  taking 
place  at  the  lime  of  pubucatdon,  nam^j,  the  last 
century-  "Pot  instance,  in  the  scene  where  the 
prodigal  is  feasted  on  his  return,  a  negro  servant 
18  waiting  at  table,  and  the  chaplain  is  in  his 
place  in  wig  and  gown.  I  have  just  heard  an  old 
woman  describe  with  creat  appreciation  a  set 
iriuch  her  mother  bought  of  a  pedlar  when  sh- 
mw  young.  She  says  it  was  all  "  clear  natral 
from  be^nninr  to  end.  I  thinlc  there  were  eight 
^turea,  vividly  colour«d.  Could  I  poesibiT  pro- 
cure a  eetp  J.  T.  F. 
N.  Kelaey,  Bri^. 

Laum  Pbovzbb. — Some  years  ago  a  brother 
clergyman  quoted  in  my  presence  a  Latin  proverb, 
the  gist  of  which  was,  "  The  evidence  of  your 
anemy  in  your  favour  is  the  best  evidence  you 
can  have."  Can  any  of  the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q." 
tell  me  the  exact  words  of  the  proverb  in  qaes- 
lion  P  The  name  of  the  Latin  author  in  which  it 
ii  found,  and  in  what  part  of  his  works  it  occurs, 
will  oblige.  H.  W.  C. 

A  Reotobship  of  Eiqhtv-one  Ybabs — ^The 
parish  register  of  Knoeungton  Orange,  Leicester, 
records  Richard  Samson  as  rector  of  the  parish 
firom  1658  to  1639,  a.  period  of  eighty-one  yeara 
Is  there  any  record  in  the  Engli^  Church  of  a 
clergyman  aolding  the  same  parish  for  a  longer 
period  than  this  ?  H. 

[What  cTidcQce  is  than  that  there  ware  not  two  in- 
cnmbenla  of  the  name  of  Richard  Samson,  probably 
fkther  and  bud? — a  fact  much  more  likely  Ihaa  chat  the 
iDODmbent  lived  eighty-ona  years  ailer  ba  ordination  ac 
tvanty-three,  makSig  him  one  hondred  and  four  at  the 
time  of  his  death.  The  register  of  Richard  Samson  In 
16W  would  probably  ncoid  his  an  and  aetcle  Un* 
deobt.] 

Feiule  Siurr. — What  female  saint  is  repre- 
sented with  a  crown  upon  her  head,  and  a  richer 
ana  in  her  left  hand  P  A  picture  of  her  standing 
and  dressed  in  monastic  g«rb  occurs  on  the  door 
of  a  triplet  by  Memling.  J.  C.  J. 

SoorsTAs  Albkhtobuk. — Stephen,  Arehbishop 
of  Toulouse,  and  Chamberlain  of  Pope  Innocent 
TL,  ocknowledras  the  receipt  of  certain  payments 
made  by  William,  Bi^op  of  Sodor,  into  the 
Apostolic  Camera,  "permviQa  Lambertesqui  de 
Societato  Albertorum.^'  The  letter  is  dated  from 
ATigDOD,  Uay  12, 1367.    In  1371  Pope  Gregory 


XI.  eommissions  John  Duncan,  Archdeacon  of 
Down  and  Apostolic  Nuncio  in  Ireland,  to  pay 
over,  for  the  benefit  of  the  Apostolic  Camera,  the 
sum  of  6,000  golden  florins  unto  certain  Floren- 
tines in  the  City  of  Lcndon,  "  factoribus  et  pro- 
curatoribus  Albertorum  antiquorum,"  What 
was  the  Societas  Albertorum  Andquorum  ? 

A.  E.  L. 

TESaC&irna  U.  S.  —  Xr^*  riw  KtXiPar  fKurwiV 
ali>  ioTif.  ^tKiAii  in  Liddell  and  Scott  is  traua- 
lat«d  a  drinking  cup.    Can  this  word  have  sug- 

?isted  to  ShakesDMre  the  name  of  Caliban  in  the 
empad,  which  ne  may  have  learnt  finm  some 
friend  conversant  with  Greek  P 

Tsovi0  E.  WiNiniceroK. 

"  Thovsh  lost  to  Sisht,  to  Memoki  dear  " 
{_4f^  S.  i.  77, 161^  899.)— In  the  latter  reference  it 
is  stated  that  this  line  has  baflied  the  researches 
of  the  literati  of  England  and  America.  I  beg  to 
revive  the  query,  who  was  the  author  of  it,  by 
forwarding  herewith  a  seal  taken  from  a  letter 
written  in  1828,  and  engraved  with  the  words- 


Having  a  date   at  which  it  was  known  may 
perhaps  give  a  cine  to  its  author.  W.  P. 

You  mav  not  be  aware  that,  in  the  "Notices  to 
Correspondents"  at  the  end  of  the  December 
part  of  a  publication  called  Tkv  Monthly  Packet, 


certain  lines  are  published  which  purport  b. 

those  from  which  the  above  long-sought  quotation 
is  taken.  I  therefore  give  you  the  reference,  'to 
be  made  use  of  as  your  judgment  may  decide.  To 
my  mind,  the  lines  bear  very  strong  internal 
evidence  of  havinc;  been  made  to  order,  the  last 
line  being,  as  I  think,  written  up  to  and  con- 
necting badlywith  thosewhich  precedeit.  "New 
Orleans,"  "  an  old  memorandum  book,"  and  "  an 
unremembered  author,"  all  seem  equatly  to  point 
to  a  small  literary  forgery.  C.  W.  M. 


k  liUrary  ooTrgapondant  of  the  So!  Orbuna  Strnday 
IS  aolvN  the  qoeitioD  concerning  the  origin  of  the 
hitherto  uatraoeable  quotation— 

'  Though  lost  to  sif^t  to  memoiy  dear.' 
It  Ant  appeued  in  venue  written  ia  m 
book,  the  author  not  reaellectad  : — 

"Sweetheart,  good  bye  I  the  flntt«ring  uU 
la  spread  to  nfl  mo  fkr  rrom  thac^ 
And  Boon  before  the  (iv'ring  gale 
My  sbip  ehtll  bound  npoD  tlie  sea. 
"  Perelunce,  all  dauilata  and  forlorn, 

These  eyes  shall  miss  thee  many  a  year ;         \\f:y 
Bnt  onftnvotten  every  chann,  C  •  v. 

Thongfa  lost  to  sight,  to  mearary  dsar."] 


4»avir.jA».  21,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


57 


"ToK  Tiddleb's  Gkouhd."— I  Hbould  be  glad 

to  ascertain  Uuough  any  of  joui'ieadera  at  Bitctiin 
whether  "  Tom  Tiddler,"  the  orieinal  of  Dickens's 
CtuiBtmu  story  for  1801,  ia  still  in  life.  I  be- 
UeTe  that  he  is  a  native  of  O&rstanK,  Lancashire, 
and  educated  at  the  Grammar- school  of  Winwick, 
in  the  evae  county.  Some  years  ago  he  was 
Tisited  by  a  geatleman  and  l&dy  from  the  latter 
locality,  and  their  interview  elicited  from  thia 
unhappy  recluse  a  greater  warmth  and  interest  in 
the  proceediugs  of  the  "  outer  world"  than  he 
had  ever  ^owa  before.  M.  D. 

Wkavbe's  Aet. — Wanted,  any  references  in 
the  woriu  of  our  standard  poeta  to  learp  and  weft 
and  met,  or  the  weaver's  art  generally.     R.  P.  Q. 

Wives  op  Earib  op  North™  BEKi.Ain».  — 
Where  can  I  find  any  short  accounts  or  genea- 
logies (traced  back)  of  any  or  all  of  the  following 
Sraonagea:  Eleanor  Nevil),  Eleanor  pOT'ningB, 
atilda  Herbert,  Catherine  Spencer,  all  of  whom 
marriad  successive  Earia  of  Northumberland 
(Henry  Percy)?  T.  C. 

[Id  Sir  Egerion  Bridges' edition  of  CoUinit'  Parage  of 
England  (toL  ilV  wb«re  the  iccount  of  the  Dnkcs  and 
Enria  of  Noithnmberland  occupies  150  ptges.] 


GON. 
(4'>'  S.  vi.  417,  551.) 
There  were  no  firearms  in  the  reign  of  Edward  I. ; 
and  the  "  gunnia  "  mentioned  were  probably  man- 
gonels. Or,  by  somewhat  audacious  metonymy, 
gim  might  be  derived  from  "gyn"  or"gin"  — 
albeit  the  firat  ia  a  weapon,  and  the  latter  only 
a  trap  or  snare.  And  a  gun,  in  the  time  of  the 
first  Edward,  might  have  been  some  form  of 
aifaaliate  or  cross-bow,  just  aa  in  the  ToxifhiUu 
Roger  Ascham  sue^  of  the  long-bow  as  on  im- 
plement of  "artillerie."  Leaving  ^un  alone,  how- 
ever, as  beyond  my  precise  ken,  surely  pbilologers 
should  not  rest  satisfied  with  the  too  ostensibly 
obvious  derivation  of  cannon  from  canna,  the  Med. 


jrreed.  I  have  the  highest  respect 
even  when  he  puts  ao  Italian  aug- 
mentative to  a  Lalm  word),  for  DnfreaDe,  and  va 


Walsiogbam;  but  let  ns  think  oat  the  matter 
little.  There  is  generally  some  reason  in  the 
coining  of  words,  as  in  the  roasting  of  eggs.  In 
the  firat  plac«  caana,  a  reed  or  cane,  does  not 
become  a  tube  until  its  pith  be  extracted.  When 
it  is  hollowed  it  becomes  a  Jittnia,  as  is  (some- 
what pedantically)  pointed  out  by  the  Irish  friars 
of  SaUmanca  (a.d.  1610)  in  their  version  of  the 
adventures  of  ^neas  in  duro  Latino  (Latin  almost 
exclusively  composed  of  radicals)  ;  "  Vihrans 
oidlio  in  Tola  baculum  ex  arbuta  aut  flatula  h 
cann&  meditans."  Id  the  next  placa^the  idea  of 
a  cane  or  reed  impliea  sDmething  which  is  weak, 


light,  and  fragile — "storias  £  cannis  confertaa"; 
and  is  not  In  any  way  suggestive  of  the  terrible 
engines  belching  forth  fire  and  death—"  weapons 
of  Hercules,"  aaya  Camden  (^Jiemainea),  "Jove's 
thunderbolt ;  for  so  some  now  call  our  great  shot." 
In  the  third  place,  by  the  middle  of  the  fourteenth 
century,  when  firearms  came  into  use,  the  Med. 
Lat.  conna  had  passed  into  the  Italian  language, 
and  had  been  appropriated  with  its  new  augmen- 
tatives  and  diminutives  to  signify  either  a  canal, 
large  or  email  (canaie,  canalasso,  canaUtto),  or  the 
pipe  of  an  organ  (carina,  catmone).  A  thing  mok- 
mg  BO  much  noise  in  the  world  as  a  cannon 
would  surely  have  been  deemed  worthy  of  some 
special  epithet  expressive  either  of  its  qualitiesand 
attributes,  or  recalling  the  name  of  the  personage 
who  invented  it,  or  under  whose  auspices  it  was 
introduced,  or  the  name  of  the  country  or  city  in 
wiiich  it  was  firat  used.  Looking  into  the  history 
of  weapons,  I  find  that  in  almost  every  instance 
one  or  another  of  the  foregoing  conditions  have 
been  observed.  Thus,  the  eariier  firearms  had 
given  to  them  either  the  names  of  serpents  or 
ravenous  birds,  as  "eulverina"  or  "colubrinua," 
"serpentines,"  " baailiaqiies,"  "faulcona,"  OT"aa- 
cres ;  or  designations  suggestive  of  the  sounds  thev 
emitted  in  discharge,  as  "  calivers,"  "  petronels, 
"pitatras,"  "muskets"  (moichetti,  gad-flies),  and 
the  like.  As  for  "  pistol,  its  name  is  said  to  come 
ftom  Pistoja  in  Italy,  as  "  bayonet "  comes  from 
Bayoone.  Consider  the  ancient  weapons  of  war- 
fare. Their  names  had  reference,  as  a  rule,  to 
their  qualities  or  attributes.  Thus  "  Aries,"  the 
battering  ram,  the  "catapult,"  the  "malliol,"  the 
"  Iraluero "  or  "  from  the  maw,"  out  of  which 
were  cast  great  stones.    Take  King  Edward  I.'s 


huge  engine,  the  "war  wolf,"  used  by  him  at  the 
f  Brechin.  The"cal 

.   )vedl, 
the  siege  of  Dunbar,  were  also  formidable  engines. 


siege  of  Brechin.  The  "calhouse"  (Ve„ 
tat),  and  the  "bow"  employed  by  Edward  III. 
the  siege  of  Dunbar,  were  also  formid 
but  of  what  shape  or  potency  we  know  not.  For 
these  and  many  others  see  Camden  (Eemaineg, 
chapter  "Artillerie"  patn'm).  Touching  proper 
names,  the  "Bricolle"  (the  English  Espnngold 
or  Springald)  was  probably  derived  from  the 
name  of  a  Frenchman  so  higbt;  just  aa  a  certain 
Milanese  sword  was  baptised  ^ter  the  cutler 
"  Andrea  Ferrara,"  and  as  m  modem  times  we  have 
Colts,  Dahlgrens,  Kruppa,  Remingtons,  Snidera, 
Martini- Henry 8  (a  title  which  may  puzzle  pos- 
terity sorely),  Mantona,  Westiey  Richards,  and 
the  tike.  Fanciful  female  names,  often  those  of 
a  lady  sovereign,  given  to  pieces  of  ordnance,  are 
common,  as  "  La  ^rande  Josephine,"  now  mounted 
on  one  of  the  fortifications  of  Paris,  "  La  grande 
Louiaon  "  on  the  ramparts  at  Lille,  "  Mons  Heg" 
at  Edinburgh,  "Queen  Elizabeth's  pocket  pistol " 
at  Dover  " ;  and  to  this  list,  I  doubt  it  not,  many 
of  your  contributors  will  be  able  to  make  additior 
The  Americans  have  been  even  n '-"»-•*!" 


e  fantastic  it 


5S 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*S.T1I.  Jjis.21, ' 


cbristeoing  tbeit  ordnance.  DuTinjir  the  dvil  war 
tbtj  had  one  monster  f^n  uicknamed  "  The- 
Swamp  ADgel,"  and  uiotlier  dubbed  the  "  Pefer»- 
burg  Eipress,"  because,  in  the  bombardment  of 
that  town,  the  great  gun  alw&js  opened  fire  at 
four  F.  M. — the  hour  of  the  publication  of  the 
OTening  paper  of  Petersburg,  The  Exprett.  But 
JD  none  of  these  names  can  I  discern  aQjthing  so 
weaklj  and  vaguely  loose  in  derivaUon  as  there 
seems  to  be  in  ciinaon,  from  canna;  because,  for- 
sooth, a  cane  is  long  and  slender  (which  a  cannon 
is  not),  and  can  be  made  tubular.  I  am  aware 
that  mere  surmises  and  hypotheses  9Xti  rarely 
permisuble  in  philnlo^;  but  backed  by  some 
GtrODg  chronological  evidence,  I  venture  to  broach 
the  theory  that  the  word  catmon  is  derived  from 
the  Itnlian  canonc  or  cannons,  a  big  dog  j  and  that 
this  title  was  given  to  the  first  gun  discharging 
shot  propelled  by  powder,  for  one  nf  two  reoBODS : 
the  first  from  the  roarin>r,  bellowing,  baying,  and 
growling  sounds  it  emitted— as  those  of  a  huge 
mastiff;  and  does  not  Mr.  Sykes,  the  burglar,  ciSl 
Lia  pocket  pistols  "barkers"?  and  did  not  our 
soldiers  in  the  Crimea  nickname  the  sharply  sibil- 
lant  rifle  bullet "  Whistling  Dick"F  The  second, 
that  it  was  orif^oally  bmUKht  into  use  under  the 
patronage  of  Francesco  I.,  Imperial  Vicar  Adjoint 
and  Duke  of  Verona,  Vicenza,  Feltre,  and  Bassano, 
who  "  flourished,"  as  the  saying  goes,  at  the  pre- 
cise period  assigned  to  the  invention  of  firearms, 
and  who,  from  bis  heraldic  cognizance  of  a  mas- 
tifT's  head,  was  sumamed  Can  ffrmtde  or  II  carmone. 
"The  court  of  Cangrande  was  the  most  magnificent 
of  the  age  in  Italy,  and  eihibiled  s  combination 
of  military  splendour  and  profuse  liberality  and 
hospitality  to  the  stranger,  and  enccuragement  to 
literature.  His  palace  became  the  refuge  for  all 
who,  embracing  bis  political  opinions,  had  in  any- 
wise subjected  themselves  to  persecution;  and  it 
was  here  that  Dante  found  an  asylum."  If  po- 
litical exiles  and  distressed  poets  could  be  made 
welcome  at  the  court  of  the  ^at  Ghibelline,  why 
not  inventors,  and  others  of  that  luckless  race 
also  in  modem  times  all  known  as  "  patentees  "  ? 
Chronology  bears  out  the  Otngrmtde  theory  Tery 
remarkably.  The  Great  Dog  became  co-sovereign 
of  the  Veronese,  with  bis  weaker  brother  Alboni, 
about  A-D,  1311,  and  he  died  in  1329, 
Now  hear  Camden :  — 

■■  The  veij-  time  of  their  invsntian  [cannon]  la  nncer- 
tatn  ;  bat  cemin  it  is  that  Kiag  Edward  the  'i'hint  uxkI 
them  at  tbe  siege  of  Cilic«  1847,  for  gnnner*  had  Ihtii 
pay  then,  as  sppeireth  by  rrcard.  Abaal  thirtjf-lhret 
Start  bcfort  thry  am  ttrn  in  Ilalg,  and  about  that  lime 
they  b^n,  u  it  Memeth.to  b«  and  JD  Spain,  but  named 
by  wrilera  Dnlia  ign.  ronio,  aa  fire.fluhing  reasels." 

Can  Grande  or  II  Canttone  "flourished,"  bo  it 
remembered,  between  a.d.  1312  and  a.d.  1329, 
jumping  almost paripasju,  like  Hippocrates'  twins, 
with  Camden's  dates.     Finally  T  find,  in  Neu- 


man  and  Barctlj's  i^MttiAIHetionary,  this  notablo 
entry :  "  Can,  an  ancient  piece  of  ordnance  " — 
this  would  have  referenca  only  to  the  growling 
voice  of  the  cannon — " '  can  que  mata  al  lobo,'  a 
wolf-dog," — a  dog,  moreover,  that  can  growl  and 
bay  most  sonorously.  I  have  said  my  sny  in  the 
matter,  and  must  apologise  for  the  length  tn 
which  this  communication  has  extended. 

Georse  AveDBTDS  Sali. 

Professor  Stephens,  in  his  great  work  on  Runic 
inscriptions,  derives  gun  and  cannon  from  the 
old  Northern  ■word  cund  or  pund,  battle,  war. 
But  it  certainly  seems  most  likely  to  be  connected 
with  cauna,  a  reed  or  cane — which  indeed  the 
earliest  cannons,  made  of  stares  of  iron  welded 
and  hooped  together,  much  resembled  (see  Bou- 
tell's  Amu  and  Armour,  ch.  xi.  pt.  i.).  I  have 
long  understood  that  the  prefix  Gan-  in  "  Gua- 
ness"  and  "Gunthorpe,"  names  of  places  on  the 
river  Trent,  means  reedi,  but  1  do  not  know  on 
what  authority.  There  is  "Reedness"  on  the 
Ouse.  J.  T.  F. 

N.  Kelaey,  Brigg. 

COSVIVIAL  SONGS. 
(4"'  S.  vi.  34,  73, 104, 124,  240,  30.3,  423.) 
I  have  made  a  diligent  search  for  the  song 
inquired  for  b^  F.  C.  H.,  but  without  success. 
The  last  line  is  a  proverb,  and  is  found,  with 
variations — /cite,  philosophie,  &c. — in  numerous 
songs.  One  of  the  best  drinking  songs  is  that  of 
Adam  Billault  aUae  "  Maitre  Adam."  It  was  n 
great  favourite  with  Cardinal  Richelieu,  who  ob- 
tdned  a  royal  pension  for  "The  Virgil  of  the 
plane"  —  the  title  given  to  the  carpenter  poet. 
There  are  many  versions.  The  variations  are 
considerable,  and  the  metre  is  not  always  the 
ime.  In  the  following  imitatioa  I  have  omitted 
a  quatrain  which,  although  strictly  mytholi^cal, 
borders  on  profaneness:  — 

THB    TBDB  TOrBR. 

When  thg  gun-beams  appearing 

Illnmine  toj  cat, 
Mr  coarn  I  am  steering 


And  yet,  when  air*  done. 
Cant  come  op  to  my  nose ! " 

Though  our  inonarch  is  mighty 
And  great  in  the  flgbt. 

Grejtoire's  strong  aqna  Title 
Wonld  settle  liim  quite. 

It  would  make  him  un^tablf. 
xengib. 


And  poll  do< 
Till  under  the 

He'd  atrelcb  oat  hii  length !  .  -~- 
When,  ripe  as  a  beri7, 

I  chance  to  depart, 
D've  think  I'll  be  very 

im  off  from  my  quart  ? 


Gooi^le 


J'l'S.TII,  JjiT(.2l,'7l.l 


NOTES  AND  QUEKIES. 


Ill  aUrl  by  AveniDS, 

A  Ureni  of  note. 
That  Cbinm  won't  spnrn  as 

He  cornea  from  his  boat- 
So  caT»-nt  inspector 
A  >py  on  m  V  w»ya, 
III  moke  a  prime  nectar 
That  Pluto  will  prniae. 
If  Tant'Ia.  inclin'd 

la  to  give  me  the  meeting, 
Thinly  dng !  he  iball  find 

Wioe  that  iinowa  no  retreating ! 
Id  my  "  parloar  "  the  Fnrie* 

Shall  uniliagly  reat ; 
O'er  my  Hine  that  ao  pure  is 

Thtvll  frolic  and  jest. 
The  Parrae  their  portals 

And  weaving  aiiall  quit. 
Letting  poor  fated  mortala 


Look  in  fcr  a  crack,' 
SUnma'ajack-asa 

HnM  carry  him  back. 
And  aa  for  Ixion, 

m  make  bim  to  feel 
(Hethieraayrelvon!) 

HiaheadiahisVheell 
Shonld  I  e'er  get  permiasii 

T"  emerge  from  the  gloc 
Id  IDT  niiual  condition 

I'll  Tisit  my  tomb. 
And  aboald  there  be  near 


Can  kick  op  a  staine  I 

Don't  give  Die  a  marble — 

Tia  well  onderatood. 

The  wild  birds  can  warble 
The  best  from  the  aood  ! 


"ES"  AND  "EN," 

(4^  S.  Ti.  896,  514.) 

Roquefort  Tenders  it,  "ches,  dans;  et  urn,  et 

miHret,  chez  lee  niM,  chez  leg  autree";  and  it, 

a,    "In   prdpodtion    en,    dans,  in;  void,  ecce. 

Elle  est  encore  uol^HU  palaU." 

CotgraTe  givea  it,  "  preposition  ever  set  before 
words  of  the  plorall  nnmlier,  aa  en  before  those  of 
the  nngular.  In  the,  at  the,  into,  or  unto  the." 
Surcnoe  gives  "  is,  contrac  of  en  les."  Both 
Laudaifl  and  Tarrer  eonaidei  it  contracted  from 
daru  let.  R.  S.  CaARBOCX. 

GfiT*!  Inn. 

•  Goaip,titUe-Utt]e:  — 

'  Come  Nicpl,  and  gie  ns  thy  cracks." 


The  confidence  ivjtb  which  Dr.  Dixon  sol?es 
philological  difficulties  is  eomethinr  quite  re- 
marltable.  In  the  case  before  us,  witbout  a  word 
of  argument,  proof,  illustration,  or  any  warrant 
from  authoritj  (for Idenj  that  AsbomedeChaate- 
lain  is  in  any  sense  an  autboritj),  he  pronouncea 
ex  cathedrd  that  (1)  it  and  m  have  the  same 
meaning;  (2)  that  "  ^sia  as  good  a  French  word 
as  en  " ;  (8)  that  "  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  en 
les";  andC^Jithat  "^ihas  nothing  to  do  with  any 
abbreviation,  except  it  be  the  Greek  tir,  from 
whence  it  is  derived."  He  then  gently  reproaches 
me,  by  implication,  for  not  having  referred  to  "  so 
common  a  French  dictionary"  as  De  Chastalain'a, 
and  assumes  that  if  I  had  done  so  I  should  have 
been  at  once  converted  to  the  doctrine  of  that 
author  (whoever  he  may  be)  that  "  it  is  derived 
from  the  Greek."  The  fact  is,  however,  that  Be 
Cbastelain's  and  Db.  Dixon's  "  guess"  (for  it  is 
nothing  moie)  that  it  is  derived  irom  the  Greek 
weighs  little  with  me  against  the  grave  authori- 
ties ef  Scheler,  Burguy,  Littr^,  Amp^^  and 
Bracbet,  assuring  and  convincing  me  that  it  baa 
nothing  at  all  to  do  with  Greek,  out  is  a  contrac- 
tion of  en  let. 

The  argument  itself  may  be  very  brieSy 
stated.  Tbe  process  which  converts  tk  let  into  delt, 
and  then  into  det,  converts  en  let  into  «nb  and 
then  into  ent.  This  form  is  found,  but  as  the 
combination  nt  was  in  early  times  distasteful  to 
French  ears,  em  soon  became  et,  just  as  transpat 
became  tre^utt,  and  enfant,  enfts.  Those  who 
wish  to  see  this  little  problem  fully  worked  out, 
with  illustrations,  may  consult  Scheler,  Littr^, 
and  Bracket's  dictionaries,  tubvoce,  and  especially 
Bumiy's  Orammatn  de  la  Lanyue  d"  Oil,  i.  64. 

Unfortunately  for  Dr.  Dixon,  be  has  not  only 
laid  down  mlesfounded  on  no  other  authority  than 
hie  ovrn,  but  he  has  ventured  to  illustrate  them  by 
self-made  examples.  He  tells  us  that  in  France, 
Belgium^  and  Switzerland  —  countries  where 
French  IS  spoken— the  acadenucal  diplomae  are 
made  out  in  the  following  fashion:  "  Bachelier  ea 
Science,"  "Doetenr  £a  Ihwit,"  "  Docteur  ha  Phi- 
losophie,"  where,  as  he  adds,  it  is  used  as  being 
e    official    and    clsa^cal  than  en."     Being 

^ Jy  surprised  at  this  iuformation,  I  resorted 

at  once  to  the  great  treasury  of  the  French  lan- 
guage—Littrd's  noble  dictionary— to  see  if  by  anv 
chance  such  an  anomaly  as  "  Docteur  ^  Droit 
had  ever  found  its  way  into  French  literature. 
Not  one  example,  however,  could  I  find  of  it  be- 
fore a  noun  in  the  singular  number.  "  Es  perils," 
"es  mains,"  "esbestes,"  "esplantes,"  "esMbree^" 
"ea  lettres,"  "es  arts,"  4c,  nave  all  been  in  use 
in  difierent  stages  of  ftench,  but  never  "  espSril," 
"es  art,"  &c.  It  now  therefore  remwns  for 
Db.  Dcios  to  tell  us  where  he  discovered  "  is 
arience,"  "  ie  droit,"  and  "  4s  philosophie." 

^  J,  Patdx. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[iu-aVIl.  JiM.31,71. 


I  cannot  admit  that  the  word  is  ia  derived  from 
the  Greek.  The  French  dictiouary  that  «ajB  bo 
must  be  particularly  worthless  as  regards^  ety- 
mology. How  is  ia  sometimes  a  contraction  of 
eb,  and  sometimes  of  «i  fc«,  is  explained  ia  Bur- 

St'b  Grammaire  dt  la  Langtie  d Oil,  ■volt.  pp.  54, 
;  see  aUo  toL  u.  pp.  277,  287. 

WiLTBB  W.  SKBiT. 
1,  CiDtTk  Terrace,  Cambridge. 


THE  BALTIMORE  AND  "OLD  MORTALITY" 
PATERSONS. 
(4"'  S.  vi  1S7,  207,  290,  364.) 
Dr.  Rakaoe  KSTe  some  interesting  papers  on 
"  Old  Mortality  '  and  his  descendants,  espresMng 
DO  doubts  as  to  the  relationship  of  the  Baltimore 
Patersons  to  "Old  Mortality."    Is  he  aware  that 
Sir  Walter  Scott  acceptad  the  statement  of  Mr. 
T^  with  conriderable  reserve  P    I  find  tie  fol- 
lowing letter  in  the  work  entitled  — 

"  The  Contemporaries  of  Bmrns  and  the  more  Recent 
Foels  of  ATishlre,  witb  Selectlcai  (Vom  their  Writings." 
Hngh  Paten,  Edinbacgb,  ia40,— 
to  which  Bb.  Bakagie  has  referred  (4*^  S.  vi 
467):  — 

"  ITth  April,  ia29. 
"  Hy  dear  Train, 
"  Toot  falaable  commuoiodon  arrived  in  clipping 
time,  and  adds  tiigbly  to  t}ie  obligations  irliich  your 
kindness  baa  so  often  conferred  on  me.  I  shall  bardly 
ventnie  to  mention  the  extraordinary  connciian  btlarun 
du  Bmaparit  /amity  md  lAal  of  Old  Xotlalitv.  till  I 
leam  from. you  how  it  ii  made  out;  whether  by  eon- 
tinned  aeknowledgment  oztd  correspondence  between  the 
families  of  the  two  bnil^en,  or  otherwiw.    A  stream  of 

Cui  (too  highly  toned  in  the  old  patriarch)  seems  to 
I  rnn  thronen  the  whole  family.  The  minister  of 
Galashiels  is  a  cUver  man,  and  so  is  hie  brother.  Wbst 
a  pity  Old  If  ortahty's  grave  cannot  In  discovered  1  1 
would  certainly  erect  a  monument  to  hie  memory  at  my 

In  reply  to  this  Mr.  Traill  stated  that  he  had  been 
preventAd  itom  answering  his  kind  letter  sooner, 
Mr.  PatereoD  not  having  drawn  up  his  account  of 
his  family  so  early  as  promised :  — 

"  I  thoaght  it  wonld  be  mora  aatiBfactoiT  to  yon,"  add* 
Ur.  Tmia,  "  to  have  an  account  of  his  relatione  in 
America,  written  by  Umaelf,  than  anytbiag  I  could  sa^ 
on  the  BDhject.  Althongh  yoa  will  see  that  what  is 
stated  does  not  amount  to  p<MidvB  proof  of  the  Queen  of 
Weitpliaha't  father  being  Iht  ton  o/  Old  Martaiitf,  I  for 
my  part  have  no  doubt  Chat  he  was." 

Then  it  goes  on  ta  say  that  Robert  Patereon— 
"  givce  a  distinct  acomint  of  his  brother  John  sailing  in 
a  veoel  called  the  Ooldea  Role,  of  Whitehaven,  from 
the  Water  of  Cree  in  (Salloway  for  America,  in  the  year 
17T4;  of  hia  making  a  considerable  fortune  daring  the 
American  War  ;  and  of  hia  aiUrwarda  Bettllng  at  Balti- 
niere,  where  he  improved  his  fortune,  married,  and  b»- 
eame  highly  raRWctabie.  He  had  a  sou  named  Robert 
after  Old  Mortality,  his  father ;  and  a  danghter  uamed 
Elizabeth  after  bis  mother,  whose  maiden  name  was  Grey. 
Robert  married  an  American  lady,  who,  oatlivlng  hini. 


bas  become  Uarchioneaa  of  Wellesley.  Elisabeth  was 
married  to  Jerome  Bonaparte.  Estraordinary  as  these 
drcnmstanoea  may  appear.  Sir  Walter  was  convinced  of 
the  tmth  of  the  statement,  and  declined  publishing  it 
solely  in  deference  to  the  Duke  of  Wellington." 

Now  I  have  little  doubt  that  Db.  RAMa6B  is 
aware  of  the  hesitation  which  Sir  Walter,  at  one 
at  least,  felt  in  accepting  the  relationship 
between  the  two  families,  and  has  probably  ex- 
amined the  qneation.  Would  he  do  ua  the  favour 
to  give  the  grounds  on  wliich  he  assumes  the 
relationship  P  He  will  also  observe  that  there  are 
some  additional  circumetanceB  noted  in  what  I 
have  quoted,  which  do  not  appear  in  the  copy  of 
the  paper  which  ha  gives.    Tnis  account  stops  at 


the  sailing  of  John  to  America,  but 
Train  gives  some  account  of  John's  career 
America.  ?■  B. 


Mr. 


PEN'NYTERSAX,  ETC. 

(4"  S.  vi.  369,  479.) 
J.  Ck,  R.  aays,  "  The  lowland  Scotch  surname 
of  Con  is  an  ascertained  Scandinavian  personal 
name,  found  also  in  the  place  called  Comcat/,  the 
Conovium  of  the  Romans."  The  Scotch  name  ie 
more  probably  a  nickname  of  ConteUiu,  or  from 
the  Erse- Gaelic  cu,  gen.  con,  a  do5,m6taphoiically 
"  hero,"  found  in  compowtion  o?  many  names  of 
Celtic  orif^.  (Conf.  TAef oar  itforier*.)   Camden 

"  Canaviunt,  mentioned  by  Antoninus,  recuved  its  name 
from  tbe  river ;  which  (own,  though  it  be  now  quite 
deetroyed  and  the  very  name,  in  the  place  where  it  stood, 
extinct,  vet  the  antiquity  of  It  is  ptraerred  in  tbe  present 
name;  for  in  the  ruins  of  it  we  find  a  small  villwe 

named  Eaer  hen,  which  dgnifles  the  old  town The 

river  is  called  in  Ptoleiny  Tottomui  for  Canomia.' 

Gibson  says  the  name  Conovium  may  mean  "  an 
extraordinary  great  or  prime  river."  Perhaps  a 
more  reasonable  etymology  of  Conovinm  would  be 
from  cicn-ui,  "  bead  of  the  water." 

R.  S,  Chasnock. 

Gray's  Inn. 

P.S.— J.  Ck.  E.  thinks  Tenby  a  purely  Danish 
name;  and  he  wys  the  first  part  of  "  tna  name 
Tenby  seems  identical  with  that  of  Twibury, 
Worcester.  Tann.  Tatneaoa,  Termmoa,  are  Eng- 
lish sumames."  I  take  it  th&t  Tenniaon  is  i.  g. 
Deunison,  "  son  of  Dennis,"  i.  a.  Konyrius. 

One  feels  bis  breath  almost  taken  awM  in 
wading  lirough  the  long  Est  of  names  and  Scan- 
dinavian derivatives  riven  by  J.  Ok.  R.  in  a  recent 
number  of  "N.&Q." 

He  is  very  ingenious  in  construing  eTery  name 
quoted  into  Northern  origin ;  but  I,  for  onejmuat 
enter  a  protest  agwost  his  neglect  of  the  Welsh 
derivation  of  such  names  as  Tenbt/  and  Penycwn. 
He  appears  to  act  on  the  injuncbon  of  Bishop 
Percy,  but  it  tells  a*  forcibly  ^gwnat  himself  u 


*»3.TII.  J«.21,71.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


he  thinka  it  does  agunst  thoae  who  put  forward 
any  other  ai^gestion. 

Tenl^  was  originally  called  JJinbych  y  I^tooed, 
baTiiig  been  a  fiiehiiw  station  of  the  ancient  Bri- 
tona.  The  name  b  taua  analysed :  Dm,  a  hill; 
bych  (a  corruption  of  b«ch),  email,  and  Fyteoed, 
£ah,  reading  thus — "the  fiaherj  hy  the  small 
hill."  This,  I  conceive,  ia  the  correct  origin  of 
the  word ;  and  bearing  in  mind  the  compoaition 
of  asTetal  woide  forming  one,  in  Welsh  names, 
the  rules  of  etymology  ere  not  broken.  Denbigh 
is  another  name  in  which  we  have  Din  bech,  a 
email  bill ;  probably  so  named  from  the  com- 
parison with  the  higher  places  surrounding  it  In 
the  word  Pe^cwH  there  are  three  distinct  Webb 
words,  Tia.  Pen  y,  the  head  or  promontory,  and 
CUM,  summit.  The  mamier  in  which  such  a  name 
as  this  is  coDstroed  is  snrprising.  Suppoung  the 
ScftDdinsTian  origin  to  be  the  true  one,  it  foUows 
Datnially,  I  think,  that  such  words  as  Fen  y 
boot  in  Radnorshire,  Fenstrywed  (written  some- 
limee  Feu  y  Strowed)  in  Montgomeryshire,  Pen- 
maen  or  Pea  j  Uaen  m  QlamoigaDshire,  Feniarth 
in  Herionethshice,  Penderin  or  Pen-y-daren  in 
Brecknociuhire,  must  testify  to  Doniah  or  Scan- 
<lin«Tiaa  inBuence ;  but  I  am  a&aid  tJiat  J.  Ck.  R, 
would  not  pennit  this.  It  is  hardly  sound  rea- 
soning to  say  that,  because  the  Danes  were  in 
South  Wales,  it  fbllowa  comqiUd  names  tnuit  be 
DaniA.  1  am  aware  of  the  presence  of  traces  of 
Buush  or  Northern  in&uenoe  in  Wales,  but  to 
what  ezlent  I  am  as  yet  unable  to  say ;  but  so 
far  as  the  words  in  questioa  are  concerned,  the 
Welsh  deriradona  are  and  must  be  satisfactory  to 
an  impartial  student. 

If  J.  Ck.  B.  or  any  other  Noree  scholar  ciui 
prtrve  the  names  I  have  put  forward  in  support 
of  my  podlian  to  be  of  Norae  origin,  then  I  sn^ 
only  be  too  happy  to  acknowledge  my  error;  but 
till  than  I  am  content  to  accept  the  Welafa  ex- 
planation. J.  Jekbuuh. 

The  first  of  these  namea  is  clearly  Celtic.  Fen- 
y-tir-aSI  agnifies  in  Cymric  "the  head  (or  end) 
of  the  poor  land."  In  Claelic  it  would  take  the 
fonn  of  Ben-a-tir-nlacb. 

There  b  an  infiltration  of  Cymric  forma  in  many 
of  the  Scottish  namea  (^places,  which  ia  probably 
dne  to  the  Fictid)  elemest,  midway  between  the 
Cymric  and  Gaelic 

The  word  Om-Oone  is  evidently  Scandinavian. 
Kcma  or  Kmta  signifies  woman  or  wife — a  word 
at  cognate  derivation  with  the  English  queen.  It 
i«  a  fair  inference  that  the  name  is  connected  with 
Ae  cliambered  tumulus  mentioned  by  your  cor- 
iMpondent.  It  would  then  signify  the  queen's 
(oE  wife's)  cairn  or  burial-^lace. 

Tha  pertinadty  with  which  your  correspondent 
J.  Ck.  R.  (4*  g.  vi.  479)  dings  to  the  exploded 
fillip  of  the  Danish  deriration  of  such  common  , 


Welsh  names  aa  Conway,  Llugwy,  4c.,  ia  quite 
wnuang.  If  Celtic  forma,  with  a  Celtic  intel- 
ligible meaning;,  found  in  a  Celtic  district,  are  not 
evidence  of  a  Celtic  origin,  I  am  at  a  losa  to  know 
how  anything  at  all  ia  capable  of  proof.  The 
science  of  etymology  haa  gnevoualy  sudered  from 
being  identified  with  the  guesses  and  riddles, 
ftequently  ingenious  enough,  of  persona  who  mis- 
ondetstand  its  very  elements.  As  Max  Miiller 
observes  — 


bas  DOthiiia  to  do  with  sound.  We 
know  words  to  be  of  the  same  ongin  which  have  not  a 
nngle  ktter  in  commoD,  and  which  differ  in  meiaiDg  as 
much  as  black  and  while.  Mere  gnesKe,  however  pland- 
Ue,  Bca  comptetely  diacatded  ham  the  proviDce  of  aden- 
lific  e^Tiioloey.  A  derivation,  even  Uiough  it  be  trae,  is 
of  no  real  vune  i/  it  cannot  be  proved." 

Take  for  instance  at  random  a  passage  from  the 
letter  of  J.  Ck,  R.  He  aaaerta,  without  any  at- 
tempt at  proof,  that  Pen  ia  a  personal  Daniah 
name,  and  then  proceeds — 

"  Tlieie  is  PeiB/cw»,  in  Pembrokeddre,  one  of  the  chief 
uttlemeols  of  toe  Danes  or  their  predecessora  Uw  I^cla 
on  the  English  coasts,  in  wliioh  is  found  the  pordf 
Danish  name  of  Tenby." 

It  would  be  difficult  to  bring  tosether  in  so 

small  a  space  a  larger  number  cf  fallades.  In 
the  first  place  Pen-y-ctom,  the  head  (or  end)  of 
the  hollow,  is  one  of  the  commonest  of  Welsh 
appellations.  There  is  not  the  slightest  ground 
for  the  oesertian  that  it  was  ever  a  Daniah  settle- 
ment.  When  did  the  Ficts  settle  on  the  English 
coasts  P  or  if  they  did,  where  ia  the  evidence  of 
their  ever  being  in  Pembrokeshire  P 

Then  sa  to  the  name  of  7>n6y,  The  suffix  by 
is  assumed  plausibly  enough  to  indicate  a  Dsnish 
town  or  setUement  (not  a  fortress).  But  what  of 
Ten,  the  prefix  f  Mr.  Taylor  says  it  ia  a  corrup- 
tion of  Dane.  J.  Uk.  R.  very  conveniently  aasumea 
it  to  be  a  Danish  proper  name. 

Now  the  facts  about  Tenbv  are  simply  these : 

i  orifiinal  name  was  Dynbud^-Pysgod,  "the 
little  hill-fort  b^  the  fiahery,"  which  exactly  in- 
dicates the  position  of  the  castle  rock  projecting 
into  the  sea.  The  Danes  harried  the  coast  in  the 
tenth  century,  but  effected  no  settlement  here. 
No  town  existed  until  the  end  of  the  twelfth 
century,  when  Tenby  was  founded  by  the  Flem- 
ings and  English  after  the  destruction  of  the  castle 
by  Mglgwn,  son  of  Rhys  ap  Gty^th,  Prince  of 
South  Wales.  Tenby  then  is  simply  the  English 
corruption  of  the  original  Cymric  DynbyiA,  as 
another  Dynibych  in  North  Wales  haa  by  a  sinuIaT 
process  become  Denbigh. 

If  etymology  is  ever  to  take  its  proper  rank  as 
a  true  science,  the  first  thing  to  De  done  is  to 
discsrd  all  such  fanciful  and  baseless  ^leculation^  I , 
and  to  build  upon  the  solid  bads  of  known  facts.   \ 

J.  A,  PiCTOK. 
SaadrkMWS,  Wavsdns,  LiverpooL 


62 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*S.VlI.Ji».«,71. 


FiUKCiB,  Eabl  or  Boihwell  (4*  S.  vi.  422.) 

AKM-o-ScoTua  aays  that  FranciB  Stewart,  son  of 
James  Stewart,  CommeDdator  of  Metros  and  Kelso, 
was  created  Earl  of  Bothwell  in  1587  bj  James 
VI.  I  do  not  pretend  to  enter  into  theoe  ques- 
tions with  one  so  thoroughly  coDTersBUt  with  such 
subjects,  but  it  maj'  interest  him  to  have  his 
attention  drawn  to  the  following  old  charter, 
which  Bcddantallj  came  under  my  notice  when 
I  was  investigating  the  "  Temple-lands  "  of  Dum- 
friesshire, and  miicb  seems  to  contradict  the 
statement  as  to  the  year  whan  he  was  made  Earl 
of  Bothwell.  The  charter,  of  which  I  have  a 
copy,   was    among  the    archives  of  the  "  Kirk- 

Satricka "  of  Closebum.  It  ia  a  charter  by 
ames  VI.  dated  "apudBunfermeliDg  penultimo 
die  Menais  Junii  anno  Domini  miUeumo  quingen- 
teamo  octageaimo  sexto  regni  nostri  decimo 
nono."    The     -       


"  PerdiUctis  DiMtiisoJDMagniDeli  etconailiarilaJMDne 
Domino  Hsmiltoen,  eaDiioendatorio   moautuii  Doatri 

Jc  Aberbrathek,  Arcbibildo  Ant^e,  comite,  Domina 
Dalbyleg  ?  et  Abemcttaie.  Reveicndisuno  ■<: 

vencnbili  pro  paliibiu  Patrido  Sinctiuidre  Aichi- 

epiieupo,  WiltUD  pnore  de  Blant^ie  noaUi  lecreLi  idgJUi 
costode  ;  dilectui  nofltris  fimilunbiu  at  coniiiliAriiB,  Do- 
mino Jotaae  HaitUcd  de  ThirlsUne  miliu  nogtro  Hcre- 
taiio,  Alexindro  Hay  ds  £latei,"  Ac 

This  charter  is  confirmatory  of  the  church-lands 
and  temple-Landa  of  Closebum  to  "  Petro  Col- 
lace,"  which  had  been  granted  bv  a  charter  (which 
in  recited)  of  Francia  Earl  of  Bothwell :  "  Perdilec- 
tum  nostrum  coosiliarium  Frauciscum  comitem 
de  Bothwell,  dominum  Hullis  et  commendatorem 
inonast«iii  de  Kelso,"  and  this  charter  was  signed 
"  spud  Castrum  de  Creichton  die  vicenmo  quarto 
mense  Januarii,  anno  Domini  milleumo,  quingen- 
teaimo  oct^esimo  quinto." 

Here  we  have  Francis  Stewart  styled  in  this 
charter  of  January,  1686,  Be  Earl  of  BothweU.  I 
throw  out  this  bint  for  the  connderation  of 
Akglo-Scotus,  without  preteadiog  to  pve  an 
opinion  on  the  subject. 

Cbautubii  Tatt  Rama  OS. 

MorniT  Caltaky  (4"-  9.  -vi.  642.)— The  holy 
Scripture,  it  is  true,  says  nothing  as  to  the  place 
called  Qolgotha  being  a  mountain  or  a  ralley. 
But  the  uniTerssl  custom  of  calling  it  a  "  mount " 
could  only  have  arisen  from  a  knowledge  of  the 
spot,  and  the  tradition  of  the  first  ages  of  the 
Christian  Church.  J.  W.  H.  observes  that  "  if 
the  tradition  of  an  eminence  were  of  respectable 
anUquity,  it  might  be,"  &&;  by  which  he  seems 
to  doubt  if  it  be  of  respectable  antiquity.  I  think 
the  testimony  of  St.  Cvril  ought  alone  to  suffice 
onthispoint.  St.  Cyril  was  Bishop  of  Jerusalem 
in  the  fourth  century,  and  there  he  delivered  his 
famous  Cateehati,  or  catecheljcal  ins[ruction&  in 
sight  of  the  holv  placea    In  his  ISth  Cata<Aaii 


still  to  be  seen,  and  as  bearing  witness  at  that 
very  time  of  the  rending  of  the  rocks  at  our 
Lord's  Crudfizion,  by  the  appearance  of  its  rocky 
surface.    These  are  his  words : — 

"  'O  riATotli  elrgi  t  S,yia%,  i  bnpartarit,  iral  liijcpi 
riiiitpaw  foif j^trot,  Hal  itiatwr  iiixpi  rSr  twmi  tlk 
Xfiiarir  al  Wrpoi  tot*  iftiyitaat."  (Cateehtiit  xiii. 
S  xxxix.) 

(That  holy  and  npcrcnunail  Golgotlia ;  and  to  b«  seen 
at  tliii  day,  and  sboviDg  CTsn  ncnr,  hoir  by  CbiiiC  the 
rocks  were  then  rcut.) 

F.  C.  H. 

There  are  at  least  two  passages  of  earlier  date 
than  the  middle  of  the  eleventh  century  (the  time 
when  Mb.  Feeousoit  supposes  the  transference  of 
the  Holy  Sepulchre  to  the  western  hill  to  have 
taken  place),  in  which  CalVary  is  referred  to  as  a 
•'  mount."  The  one  is  in  the  Ecdaiattical  Hif 
tory  of  SosomtH,  ii.  1,  where  it  is  said  that  the 
Greeks,  "  the  more  efiectosUy  to  conceal  them, 
had  enclosed  the  place  of  the  resurrection  and 
Mount  Calvary  within  a  wall " ;  the  bther  in  the 
tract  of  Theodorus,  written  somewhere  about  tho 
end  of  the  sixth  century,  where  it  issaid.speaking 
of  Calvary,  that  the  mount  is  stony,  and  that  the 
ascent  to  the  mount  is  by  steps.  (See  Smut 
arohaohgiqtte,  Aug.  1864,  p.  109,  and  PaUtdinte 
Detcriptitmet  ex  Sacuio,  iv.  v.  et  vL  Titus  Tobler, 
St.  Gallen,  1869.)  There  is  a  curious  passage  of 
a  later  date  in  Geoffrey  de  VinsauTs  Itinerary  of 
Sing  Richard  I.  cap.  79,  where,  speaking  of  the 
capture  of   Jerusalem  in  a.d.  1187,  the  writer 

"  When  the  city  ira»  taken,  the  crier  of  the  Maboraetun 
UiT  proceeded  to  the  Bammit  of  the  reck  of  Cilvary,  aad 
there  pnbUahed  tbdr  raise  law  in  the  pUoe  where  Christ 
had  connimmated  the  law  oT  death  upon  the  cross."  (Sm 
Bohn's  ChTtnadaof  (ht  Cnaada,  p.  79-800 

Alex.  B.  M'Gbisob. 

19,  Woodside  Temce,  Glugow. 

Rhime  to  "Widow"   (4»  S.  vi.  346,  44S, 

569.) — Rhymes  might  be  multiplied.    Skiddaw, 

Kiddow  (a  Cornish  bird),  and  if  proper  names  are 

allowed— 

1.  "  Fie,  fie,  Monuenr  Dido ; 

What,  jilt  the  poor  widow  ?  " 
a.  "  Al  Mr  Roger  de  CoverUy, 
Bo  Croat  was  in  love  early. 
By  a  besDtlfal  widow, 
A  yeomau  higbt  Prideanx." 

CaABLES  TsntioLS. 
Cambridge. 

Falls  op  Fothrs  ahd  Qlaxka  (4'"  S.  vi.Ml.) 
The  name  Foyers,  which  I  find  set  down  in  an 
old  map  as  "Foirs,"  I  take  to  be  a  corruption  of 
the  Old  Norse  fort,  Norwe^an  fou^^  a  waterfall, 
from  Old  Norse  farta,  to  rush  ftinously.  The 
Gnrlish  word  ^oit  is  an  adventitious  accretion, 
obviously  superinduced  after  the  original  meaning 
of  the  name  bad  ceased  to  be  understood.     "  Fall 


A'^S.Tri.  J*ii.31,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


63 


Waterfall."  A  eimilBr  impodtioD  ia  fonud  in  the 
Dame  StrathhelmBdale  ("Strath"  and  "dale" 
being  woide  of  like  Bignificance),  and  in  the  name 
of  that  group  of  ialanda  belonging  to  Beomark 
called  the  Fftroes,  to  which  we  apply  the  redun- 
dant denominatioD  of  Faroe  Itlet — oe  and  ith  being 
one  and  the  eame.  The  general  name  for  a  water- 
fell  throughout  Cumberland  is /ores.  The  deriva- 
tion of  the  name  Olamma  ia  not  quite  so  erident, 
but  may  either  be  the  Icelandic  glaum,  the  name 
of  a  man,  and  li,  a  river,  or  possiblj'  gtamr,*  an 
evil  spirit — the  aupposed  abode  of  the  water-fiend. 
Pink erton  mentions  "the  cascade  of  Olamma"  as 
eitnsted  "amidst  the  constant  darkness  of  hills 
and  wooda  " — ph jucal  peculiarities,  not  onl7  aug- 

feative  to  a  superstitiouB  and  imaginative  neople, 
ut  con^tent  with  the  known  belief  of  theNorth- 
men,  that  the  mountun  peaks  and  hidden  recesses 
of  the  valley  were  inhabited  by  supematurat 
being&t  What  renders  thia  solution  somewhat 
probable  ia,  that  in  a  verj  old  map  this  name  ia 
written  "Olamoir."  In  Norway  is  tbe  river 
Glommen,t  the  meaning  of  which  may  be  either 
*'  The  river  epirit,"  or  "  Glaum's  river,"  or  pos- 
sibly "The  turbid  river" — Qenuan  glum,  tur- 
bidns.  J.  Cx.  S. 

AnroMATON  Chess-Plateb  (4"*  S.  v.  663;  vi. 
40,  116,513. — The  pamphlet  mentioned  by  Mb. 
Noble  (The  Speaking  ^gure  and  the  Automaton 
Chest-Player  exposed  ana  detected)  has  been  at- 
tributed to  Philip  Thicknesse,  F.R.S.,  and  father 
of  Lord  Audley.  W.  E.  A.  A. 

D .  G :  "  A  Kibe  FEOK  Yabmouth  TO 

WiLK8  "  (4*^  S.  vi.  529.)— I  can  confirm  the  accu- 
racy of  Mb.  TownsHENs  Mater's  statement  re- 
BpectingthelateGeorgeDanieIandthe"Remark8" 
prefixed  to  Cumberland's  series  of  plays,  eighty- 
seven  ot  which  were  published  by  Dolby  before  the 
vork  paeeed  into  Mr.  Cumberland's  hands.  The 
critical  obaervations  which  prefaced  these  eighty- 
seven  nnmbeis  were  then  cancelled  to  make  room 
for  Mr.  Daniel's.  Those  who,  like  myself,  had  op- 
portunities of  knowing  that  voluble  gentlemao, 
mnat  have  relished  your  interpretation  of  the 

1^^  D G ;  hut  not  many  of  even  these 

were  aware  that  when  that  model  of  "  eelf-iepre»- 


*  From  this  ths  Scotch  word  glamtr,  to  ezsrdse  a 
Waii  infloenee  over  one. 

t  Fmrgaton  says  tbe  Nekii,  in  Norway,  derives  its 
name  fyoDi*'ttM  wst«r  apirlt  called  tbe  Neck":  hence, 
I  prctnnici  our  Dime  "  Old  Nick "  applied  to  deslgnste 
tbe  Devil. 

X  Tbis  osiae,  it  la  said,  coDtaiiu  "  tlie  demonatritive 
form  of  tbe  word  if,  a  river,  becoming  in  Old  None  iin, 
iMt  river,"  The  old  form  of  the  oame  of  oor  oirn  nortbem 
tity  pTobiblj  affords  an  example  of  this,  viz.—"  Abir- 
dna,"  L  e.  lAiuted  over  or  beyond  the  entrance  of  the 
riv«r.  An  ezunple  of  tbe  pienx  Aier,  Dot  yet  recorded 
ia  tbe  p*g«  of  "  N.  &  Q."  is  Aberflort,  a  smul  waport  of 
XOTway,  forty-eight  miles  soDth-west  of  Chriitiana. 


won,"  George  IV.,  when  Prince  of  Wales,  was 
reported  to  have  received  a  well-deserved  chastiae- 
ment  f^om  Lord  Yarmouth,  on  account  of  Lady 
Yarmouth,  Mr.  Effingham  Wilson,  of  the  Boyal 
Exchange,  issued  a  versified  account  of  the  affair, 
intituled  A  Side  from  Yarmouth  to  Wake.  This 
squib  was  written  by  George  Daniel.  It  was 
bought  up  on  the  morning  of  publication  at  tbe 
cost  of  some  thousands  of  pounds.  But  although 
bought  up  at  this  cost  I  will  be  bound  to  say  that 
a  copy  of  it  was  found  among  Mr.  Daniel's  bhrary 
accumulations.  John  Watsok  Daxby. 

Richmond,  Surrey. 

It  is  stated  in  an  editorial  note  that  it  is  pos- 
sible that,  an  index  hand  pointing  to  D Q 

(George  Daniel)  might  he  used  by  the  writer  in 
reference  to  the  handwriting  on  the  wall,  indi- 
cating that  be  was  "a  Daniel  come  to  judgment." 


R  L.  Blbnkinboff. 

Springtborpe  Kectory. 

"WhutstMoor"  (4"'  S.  vi.  503.)— This  poem 
has  been  printed,  with  an  important  dissertation, 
in  the  appendix  to  the  Rev,  J.  C.  Atkinson's 
Oloaeary  of  the  Cleveland  Dialect,  p.  696.  It  may 
also  be  seen,  correctly  printed  from  the  only 
koowB  manuscript,  in  mj  edition  of  Mjrc's  In-  • 
itrudiorufor  ParithPrieitt  (E.  E.  T.  S.),  p.  90. 
Edwaed  Peacock. 
Bottesfoid  Manor,  Brigg. 

"She  took  the  Citp,"  etc.  (4*  8.  vi.  526.)- 
These  tines  are  to  be  found  in  tbb  Arunditiet  Cami, 
"  editio  quart*,"  p.  147.  They  are  there  headed 
"  Epitaph,"  and  ''  Anon. "  ia  appended.  They  are 
thus  rendered  into  Latin  verae  by  Dr.  Kennedy, 
the  late  Head-Master  of  Shrewsbury : — 

"  Parrala  libSnt  vitam  Melitilla  :  led  eheu  ! 
DLnpticuit  nimia  potns  amaritie : 
Leniter  amovit  tenero  cratera  labello. 
Alqne  iterum  Kimno  lamina  composuit" 
The  lines,  I  imagine,  form  one  of  those  epitaphs 
so  common  in  churcbywds,  of  which  it  is  so  diffi- 
cult to  trace  the  paternity. 

JOHir  PiCKEORII,  U.A. 

Bolton  FeT<7,  near  Tadcaater. 

Lakoashibe  Futjbeal  Folk  Loee  (4"*  S.  vi. 
496.) — The  writer  of  the  paragraph  yon  have  in- 
serted Irom  the  Datly  Telegrt^h  ia  mistaken  in 
suppoaing  that  the  poor  Hindley  people  used  sprigs 
of  box  as  a  humble  substitute  for  rosemary  or 
thyme.  Tbe  use  of  the  Utter  plants  would  pro- 
baoly  have  been  as  foreign  to  their  notions  as  the 
oboIuB  for  Charon,  or  the  honey  cake  for  Cerberus; 
but  the  use  of  box  is  so  universal  among  the 
humbler  classes  in  tbe  neighbourhood  referred  t(^ 


64 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4»S.Tir.  Jaf.JI.TI. 


that,  u  a  plant  grown  in  gtirdenB,  it  is  commonly 
smomn  of  as  "  burjing-box  " ;  uid  it  b  no  donht 
Ranted  in  cottage  garaeoa  for  tbe  eipregs  purpose. 
The  custom  is  alluded  to  by  'WoraBworth  in  his 
little  poem  of  " The  Childleas  Father":— 
"  Fresh  sprigs  *  of  green  box-wood,  oat  six  mootlu 
before, 

Filled  the  fimenl  basin  at  Thnotbr*!  door." 
And  in  a  note  (vol.  i.  p.  203,  ed.  1827)  it  ia  stated 
that— 

"  In  ■everal  parti  of  the  Xorth  of  England,  when  a 
foneral  takes  place,  a  basin  full  of  sprigs  of  box-wood  is 
placed  at  the  door  of  the  house  fh>m  whfch  the  cofBn  is 
taken  Dp,  and  each  parsoa  who  attends  the  fonual  ordi- 
narily takes  a  fng  of  the  box-wood,  and  throws  it  into 
the  graTe  of  the  deceased." 

Qy.  the  ori^  of  the  custom  ?  J.  F.  M. 

NioouB  HAMBt  (4"  8.  Ti.  540.)— This  prieet 
and  French  grammarian  sold  the  MS.  of  hia 
grammar  to  Messrs.  Longman ;  he  iviis  then  IiTing 
in  Someis  Town,  ne«r  the  present  Catholic  church. 
The  firm  still  holds  the  transfer  of  the  copyright 
and  the  cheque.  Jakes  Gil^bbt. 

Gl,  Hill  Street,  Peckham,  S.E. 

ThB  Hon.  CiTHBRIfrE  SOBTHCOTE  (4""  S.  vi. 
546.)— Although  I  em  not  able  to  identify  this 
lady,  who  is  stated  by  your  correspondent 
J.  C.  Q.  H.  to  haTe  been  living  in  1736,  perhaps 
the  following  infonnation  may  prove  of  Bervice  to 
him.  A. "  Dame  Catherine  Southcott  aiitu  Fair- 
■  fax,  widow,"  was  one  of  the  parties  to  an  inden- 
ture bearing  date  Aug.  35,  2.  Chaa.  11.  (1675), 
and  recited  in  the  will  of  Roger  Falmer,  Earl  of 
Castlemaine,  in  1696  (Mite.  Gm.  et  Htr.,  i.  162). 
She  was  the  daughter  and  heirees  of  John  Elliott, 
Esq.,  of  the  county  of  Essex.  She  married,  first, 
Sir  George  Southcote,  Bart,  of  Bliborough,  co. 
LJncolo,  who  died  in  1664,  leaving  issue  a  son, 
OeoTM,  at  irtiose  decease,  before  16S1,  the  baron- 
etcy IS  said  to  hare  expired,  and  a  daughter,  Ca- 
therine, who  became  tne  wife  of  James  Palmer, 
Esq.,  brother  to  the  above-mentioned  Earl  of 
Castlemaine.  Lady  Southcote  married,  secondly, 
in  1665,  the  Hoaourable  Nicholas  Fairfax,  a 
younger  son  of  Thomas,  second  Viscount  Fairfax, 
of  Guling  Castle,  co.  Yorii,  by  whom  she  bad, 
with  other  issue,  a  daughter  Mary,  who  was 
baptised  at  Walton,  Ang.  8,  1666. 

BoBBKT  H.  Sbair. 

The  HoQDt,  York. 

"  BuiiE  Laws  of  Coknbcticut  "  (4'*  S.  vi.  4S6 ; 
vii.  16.) — In  answer  to  Mb.  Pictoh',  I  give  at  full 
the  title-iMige  of  the  stnall  book  from  which  I 
took  the  quotation  mentioned  by  him : — 

"TheCodeof  1650,  being  a  Compilation  of  the  eariint 
Laws  andOrdws  of  the  General  Coort  ofConnecl' 
IT  Civil  Compact  entered  int( 


.  _ . ..  [fhna  the  Laws  and  jndkdal  Froceedinge  of  Naw- 
IttveD  Colony,  cenunonly  called  Blue  Laws.  Hartlbrd : 
published  by  Silas  Andins,  1826." 

I  shall  be  hap^  to  lend  the  book  (12mo, 
ISO  pp.,  one  wooacnt,  fall  page)  to  Mx.  Picioir,  if 
he  wisoee  to  sf*  "*  *"''  — "^'  .-™;4-  4«  — ..  *l.«....l 


[Let  as  take  this  opportonity  of  doing  what  we  had 
intended  to  do  bafeie— call  Mb,  Picratfu  attention  to 
a  valuable  aitid*  by  a  gentleman  connected  witb  the  Stats 
Libraiy,  Biitfvrd,  Coniiecticat,  on  "  The  Blue  Laws  "  in 
our  !•'  3.  si.  321,  which  gives  the  history  of  this  pre- 
tended code.] 

The  "  Seah-Vah  Vouht  "  (4»  S.  vi.  477, 683.) 
There  are  two  versions  of  this  song,  one  beginning 

"  Tie  a  glorious  moonlight  night," 
and  another, 

**  There  are  ebtps  upon  the  sea," 
in  the  Wearing  of  the  Green  Song  Book,  published 
by  Cameron  and  Ferguson,  Glasgow. 

Jakes  Reid. 

Fissi  Book  prihtbd  id  Mabchbbteb  (4*^  8. 

iii.  07, 169.) — No  earlier  exemplar  of  our  Maib- 

chester  press  than  chat  mtmedin  my  former  com- 

municatiOQ  appears  to  be  known,  and  yet  it  seema 

Srobable  that  some  may  hereafter  be  louad.  Mr. 
ohn  Owen  of  Manchester  has  favoured  me  with 
the  following,  which  he  copied  from  an  entry  in 
the  registers  of  the  Manchester  Cathedral: — 

"  1693.  March.— Jonathan,  son  of  John  Green.  Man- 
chester, Printer,  baptised." 

It  is  also  possible  that  some  of  the  Lancashire 
Civil  War  Tracts,  issued  ».t,  raayhava  been  th& 
fruits  of  a  IochI  press.        'WnLIAlt  E.  A.  Azox. 

MiseALE  AD  DBUM  Sabitii  (4''  S.  vi.  43C,  558.) 
Your  learned  correspondent  F.  C.  H.,  replying  ta 
a  query  of  A^ncmr  Rbos  as  to  the  date  of  a 
Sarum  Hissal  in  the  pOHsesaion  irf  the  latter,  savs 
that  the  owner  may  deteroiine  whether  or  no  the 
edition  in  question  is  that  published  by  Peter 
Violette  in  1609  "  by  ascertaining  in  what  year 
about  that  time  Easter  fell  on  March  27."  I  have 
just  purchased  a  copy  of  that  curious  book,  the 
DadyUtmut  Bceletiastievt  of  Pompeiua  Ijmnius, 
fo.  Venice,  1613.  This  most  labonous  calculator 
gives  two  tables,  the  one  supplying  the  day  of  the 
month  on  which  Easter  day  fell  trom  A.n.  S26  to 
A.II.  15S3  inclusive,  the  other  carrying  on  the  same 
table  from  A.D.  1583  to  A.i>.  8196  I  By  these  tables 
I  find  that  the  year«  nearest  to  1609  in  which 
Easter  Day  fell  on  March  27  were  1440,  ISOS, 
1613,  1524,  and  1622.  It  is  somewtat  provoking 
that  three  of  these  dates  should  be  bo  near  1609, 
whilst  the  other  two  are  remote,  thus  perhaps  » 
little  perplexing  your  correspondent  Akikum 
Reob.  W.  Spareow  SiHPSOir.  i  C 


4*S.Vn.  JA!i.Sl,'7i.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


65 


If  Toa  apply  to  Eev.  W.  G.  Henderson,  D.C.L, 
Head  Master  at  Leeds,  tou  will  find  him  learned 
in  all  matters  connected  vith  Sanim  and  other 

On  eJI  qnestiona  relating  to  earlv  pnnten  or 
old  typographj,  Ton  would  do  well  to  show  your 
Tolnme  to  Mr.  W.  Blades,  17,  Abchurch  Lane, 
City,  Loudon. 

Fruicib  T.  Batbbsax, 
librarien  of  Hereford  CathedraL 

The  Bookwobm  (4'*'  S.  tI,  627.)— I  cannot  fur- 
niih  more  than  one  inetance  of  the  TarageB  of  book* 
wonoaiDaDyToIumeofsorecentdateulTSO;  buti 
bave  an  old  copy  of  St.  Jerom  of  1616,  in  folio,  which 
has  been  very  assiduously  gone  through  by  book- 
worms. I  could  collect  from  it  many  examples, 
hot  the  two  following  may  suffice.  One  perfora- 
tion extenda  through  thirty  leaves,  which  together 
ue  more  tbao  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Its 
neatest  loigth  is  one  inch  and  one-eighth,  greatest 
breadth  three-Mghths  of  an  inch.  Another  per- 
vades twenty-eight  leaver  one-eighth  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  its  greatest  length  is  one  inch. 
About  the  middle,  the  worm  has  made  a  complete 
island  foui^ghtns  long  and  three-eighths  broad, 
BO  that  the  intermediate  paper  of  the  island  has 
fallen  out  of  Bereral  leaves,  leaving  a  hole  of  the 
above  dimensions.  The  insect  seems  to  be  futi- 
dions  in  his  taste,  and  h  gotcrmel  in  his  way,  bavinc 
a  decided  relish  for  the  paper  of  old  books,  which 
it  seems  to  take  n  century  or  more  to  season  for 
his  palate.  As  above  noted,  however,  I  have  one 
book  niinled  in  1819,  decidedly  worm-eaten. 

R  C.  H. 
1  have  never  seen  the  bookworm,  and,  after 
many  enqoiriee,  have  failed  to  discover  any  one 
who  has.  Is  he  known  to  entomologists  F  I  infer 
&om  the  cessatioa  of  his  ravages,  that  about  the 
middle  of  the  last  centsry  some  new  ingredient 
wasintrodoeed  in  the  manufacture  of  paper  which 
he  does  not  like.  I  have  an  editicvica  Montaigne, 
4  vols.  Palis  laoa,  the  calf  binding  of  which  is 
extennvely  wormed,  but  the  paper  has  not  been 
penetnited.  Faii-^aling  booksellers,  when  a  book 
la  "  wormed,"  say  so  iu  thur  catalogues ;  and  I  do 
not  remember  any  one  so  marked  of  a  later  date 
than  1750.  R  B.  C. 

U.  U.  Clob. 

ThoQgh  I  have  been  greatly  plagued  by  the 
ravages  of  this  pest,  1  am  not  enough  of  an  ento- 
mologist to  distinguish  the  genuine  insect  from 
preUmders,  and  should  only  be  misleading  yonr 
readers  by  measnring  the  diameter  cf  their  holes. 
Generally  speaking,  the  plague  is  confined  to  old 
books,  and  even  some  of  them  appear  to  be  pro- 
tected by  the  nature  of  their  paper  or  other  pecu- 
liarity. The  solitary  instances  to  the  contrary, 
irhicb,  as  far  as  I  luiow,  I  am  able  to  produce, 
are,  a  copy  of  Tasso's  Aminta,  printed  at  Florence 


in  1824,  which  the  creature  has  eurionsly  per- 
forated for  S80  pages,  at  about  two  inches  &om 
the  top,  without  any  apparent  outlet;  the  second 
volume  of  the  London  edition  of  Johnson's  Xttvi 
of  the  Pott*,  1783 ;  and  a  volume  of  "Whiston'a 
Joiephta,  1787.  C.  W.  BraaHAx. 

The  Rev.  F.  Hatekoal,  Librarian  of  Hereford 
Cathedral,  will  be  most  happy  to  give  the  writer 
some  information,  and  slso  some  samples  of  paper 
eaten  recently  by  bookworms  on  being  favoured 
with  name  and  address. 

Thb  Zobiac  op  Dbksekah  (4**  S.  vi.  629.)  —I 
have  no  knowledge  of  the  calculations  of  Mr. 
John  Cole  in  1624.  whereby  he  estimates  the 
sodiac  of  Tentyra  (=  Denderah)  to  date  from 
2261  S.C.  This  sculpture,  of  circular  form,  about 
five  feet  in  diuneter,  was  discovered  by  General 
Desaix,Bndwas  bronE;httDParieinl821.  Fromthe 
Greek  inscriptions  on  the  temples  of  Denderah  and 
Esne,  Ohampollion  and  Letronue  ascertuued 
(Frfcit  du  ^tthne  kta-oglt/phique,  Secherehes, 
&C.).  that  those  edifices  were  constructed  or 
flnisned  during  the  times  of  the  Roman  emperors. 
But  the  antiquity  of  the  lodiacal  scheme  or  map 
there  represented  is  another  matter.  Depuis  car- 
ried it  to  150  centuries  before  the  Christian  era, 
which,  however,  was  afterwards  reduced  to  about 
four  centuries  A.C.  {prigitie  del  Oultee,  1796.) 
When  Jollois  and  Devilliers  eaw  the  stone,  they 
at  once  detected  figures  nearly  eimilar  to  those 
represented  on  the  celestial  globes  of  the  rttesent 
day.  Biot  (_Ileeherchee  tur  PAttronomie  Egypti- 
emae)  showed  that  this  zodiac  represented  the 
poution  which  Uie  pole  of  the  world  must  have 
oeonpied  about  the  year  7X6  n.G.;  also,  that  the 
zodiac  of  Esne  gave  the  poeition  of  about  700  b.c. 
It  is  to  be  observed  that  whilst  the  pyramids 
coincide  with  the  meridian,  the  axis  of  the  temple 
of  Benderah  deviates  17  degrees,  and  that  of  the 
Rnall  temple  at  Esne  71  degrees  from  the  meri- 
diwi,  both  of  them  being  from  the  north  towards 
the  east.  T.  J.  BnCKTOir. 

9  RictuDond  Place,  Brighton. 
The  small  planisphere  which  was  on  the  ceiling 
of  one  of  the  lateral  chambers  of  the  temple  of 
Hathof  behind  the  Pronads,  is  now  tobe  foundin 
the  Egyptian  museum  of  the  Louvre,  The  three 
zodiacs  known  in  Egypt  as  Denders,  Esn^,  and 
E'Dayr  are  all  of  the  Ptolemaic  or  Roman  eras. 
On  good  authority,  the  planisphere  in  question 
dates  back  little  more  than  1600  years. 

A.  S.  W. 
Union  Gob. 

Jacob  Bohuk  (4"  S.  vi.  e2».)— The  following 
is  the  title  page  of  one  of  the  works  mentioned 
by  your  correepondent  Mk.  Bakclat.    It  is  in  r 
my  possession,  and  if  this  edition  is  of  the  sli^hteat^  1 1 
service  to  your  correepondent  I  will  lend  it  him 
with  pleasure. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'^S.TII.  J*B.2l,71. 


[or  nccDcdlng  to]  the  Tbrn  Pruidples,  by  Jsoob  Bcbmea 
alisa  TeutonicoB  PhiloBopti-      "f-"—  =-  "■-  f^ 


T  H.  Blonden,  at  the  Cutle  ia  C 


43  Chorlton  Boed,  Muich«sler. 


John  Yabkbb. 


Haib  QBowma  aftbk  Dbath  (4"  S.  vi.  624.) 
As  a  parallel  case  to  that  cited  hj  Mfi.  Ficefo&d, 
I  transcribe  ibe  follotdng  from  llawtIioiiie'a.^i^- 
liiA  Note  Bookt  (vol.  i.  p.  06)  :— 

"  The  gruidaiather  of  Mn ilied  fiHj  years  ago, 

■t  the  age  ot  tirmtj-eight.  She  had  great  peraanal 
cbarms,  aad  among  them  a  head  of  beaatifol  cheataut 
heir.  Aft«r  her  banal  ia  a  family  tomb,  the  cofBa  of  oae 
ot  her  childrea  waa  laid  an  ber  own,  to  Uiat  the  lid  aeeoia 
to  have  dacayed,  or  been  broken  from  this  cause ;  at  aoy 
rate  this  was  the  com  when  the  tomb  TU  opened,  about 
a  year  ago." 

Hawthorne  wrote  on  Good  Frida;,  1854 : — 

*■  The  grandmothBr's  coffin  was  then  fonnd  to  be  filled 
vith  beuitifU  ghway  living  chentnat  rioglets,  into  which ' 
her  whole  snbBtance  seems  (o  have  been  tranafonned,  for 
there  waa  nothing  else  but  these  shining  curls,  the  growth 
of  half  a  century,  in  the  tomb." 

A  remarkable  instance  to  the  contrary  will  be 
found  in  Sir  Henry  Halford'a  account  of  the  open- 
ing of  the  coffin  of  Charlea  I.  in  1813.  (The  Life 
ofJamei  II.,  by  the  Bev.  J.  S.  Clarke,  LL.B., 
vol.  ii.  App.  iy.  pp.  669-70.) 

'^The  pointed  beard,  bo  characteriAtic  of  the  period  of 

there^of  King  Charles,  vas  perfect The  back 

part  of  the  scalp  was  entirely  perfect,  and  had  a  remark- 
My  fresh  appearance— the  pores  of  the  skin  being  more 
distinct,  ss  they  oanally  are  when  soaked  in  moisture  ; 
and  the  tendoni  and  ligaments  of  the  neck  wen  of  con- 
siderable satffitance  and  firmness.  The  bair  was  thick  at 
the  back  part  of  tlie  head,  and  in  appearance  nearly 
black.  A  portion  of  it,  which  has  since  been  cleaned  and 
dried,is  of  a  beaatifiil  dark  brown  colour.  That  of  the 
beard  was  a  redder  brown.  On  the  back  part  of  the  head 
it  waa  more  than  an  inch  ia  length,  and  bad  been  pro- 
bably cut  so  short  for  the  convenience  of  the  executioner, 
or,  perhaps,  by  the  piety  of  friends  soon  after  deMh,  in 
order  to  furnish  memorials  of  the  unhappy  king." 

The  indestructibility  of  hair  is  shown  by  the 
fact  that  at  the  same  time  a  portion  of  Heniy 
VIU's  beard  was  discovered  to  "remain  upon 
the  chin." 

It  may  be  thought  that  the  moiat  condition  of 
King  Cbarles's  bead  prevented  the  posthumous 
growth  of  his  hair.  But  as  a  seneral  rule  m(»»- 
tnre  induces  hur  to  ktow.  At  Whitby,  last  year, 
a  young  man*  was  drowned  while  bathing,  and 
his  body  earned  out  with  the  tide.  At  the  flood, 
two  or  three  days  aft«r,  his  remuns  were  re- 
covered, and  bis  hiur  was  found  to  have  grown 
between  three  and  four  inches, 

S.  B.  TownsHEHD  MlTBR. 


*  WhOMDI 


e,  (or  obviona  reasons,  I  do  not  give. 


Barbara,  Duchzss  of  Clevblard  (4*"  S.  v. 

401.) — Your  correspondent  Q.  S.  S.,  who  is  en- 
gaged upon  a  life  of  this  lady,  asks  for  evidence  of 
her  "  BBserted  residence  at  Chiswiok."  In  a  MS. 
note  of  Horace  Walpole'a  (penes  me),  I  find  it 
Stated  —  "The  Duchess  of  Cleveland  died  at  hur 
house  at  Chiswick  of  a  dropsy,  Oct.  9,  1700." 
And  the  burial  legisten  of  the  pariah  (which  I 
had  occasion  to  consult  some  time  since)  record: 
"  Barbara  Villieis,  Duchess  of  Cleveland,  Oct.  13. 
1709."  Edwabd  F.  RmBATTLT. 

Ait  diedited  Elboy  bt  Olivsb  Qouwhith 
(4*  S.vii.  9,)— It  would  he  indeed  "poorQoldj," 
as  your  correspondent  "Mooblass  Lad"  styles 
bitn,  if  in  1770  he  could  descend  so  low  as  to 
produce  such  a  specimen  of  the  bathos  as  this 
miserable  elegy.  Any  attempt  to  foist  such  trash 
upon  the  author  of  the  Traveller  and  the  Daerled 
VUlage  can  only  be  met  as  the  poetaster  was  of 

fore,  "  Muse  furcillis  pnedpitem  eiiclunt " ;  aai 
cannot  but  think  that  the  careful  supermtend- 
ence  which  is  generally  exercised  over  what  ap- 
peals in  "N.  &  Q."  was  somewhat  at  fault  when 
such  a  commuoication  as  the  one  I  am  referring 
to  was  allowed  to  pass  muster  without  aome 
editorial  comment.  I  can  imiieine  the  expression 
in  the  face  of  my  friend  Mr.  John  Forster,  Gold- 
smith's admirable  biographer,  on  having  the  line:! 
MooBiiAHD  Lab  has  produced  put  before  him  ad 
a  genuine  addition  to  that  charming  poetiy  which 
he  has  illustrated  so  welL  Jas.  Crosslet. 

Outer  thb  Spy  (S-*  8,  ii.  21,  87,  862,  523.) 
The  name  of  this  character,  once  so  notorinup, 
appears  three  or  four  times  in  your  earlier  indexes ; 
his  subsequent  career  after  he  retired  from  the  pub- 
lic gaze  on  the  conviction  of  Thistlewood  may  rtot 
be  BO  well  known.  In  1820  or  1821  he  was  sent  out 
to  the  Cape  with  letters  of  recommendation  for  his 
services  to  Lord  Charles  Somerset,  then  governor 
of  the  colony,  who  appointed  him  to  the  lucrative 
and  reaponmble  position  of  superintendent  of  pub- 
lic worKS,  is  wWh  office  he  built  the  present 
English  cathedral  and  Qovemment  House  at  Orsf- 
ham'a  Town  on  the  eastern  fronUer,  two  of  the 
ugliest  buildings  that  can  possibly  be  conceived, 
and  which  cost  enormous  sums  of  money,  the  ex- 
penditoie  of  which  could  never  be  very  accurately 
accounted  for.  Oliver  died  in  Cape  Tovro  in  1820, 
under  the  name  of  Jones,  his  widow  survivmg 
him  for  some  years.  He  was,  I  believe,  the  lASt 
of  his  class  nno  was  rewarded  by  a  handsome 
colonial  appointment  for  his  diabolical  treachery 
to  his  countrymen  at  home.  H.  H. 

Fortamonth. 


obyCnOOgIC 


**  8.  Tn.  Jax.  21,  'TI.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


NOTE8  OM  BOOKS,  ETC. 
OmayrdaiKe  to  Oie  (Arutim  Ytar.    (Parker.) 
JfuDwi  aver  "  The  CArifCiaii  Tear"  and  "Lyra  Innif- 

eetaaom."    By  CfaarloICe  Maiy  Yonge.     To<nlhtT  aith 

a  fta  Gfeaimgt  of  Recollectiani  of  the  Btt,  Join  Kebit, 

gatkend  by  levtml  Btnub.     (Parker.) 

Hothini  ■  ... 

hold  whicl 

mind  of  EngUnd,  and  bow  ieep  is  the  reTereiice  in  vrhtch 
tbe  memoiy  ot  jobn  Seble  is  beld,  not  only  by  Ihose 
irho  «nJojed  (be  btesnng  of  his  fricudtbip,  bat  bv  thoa- 
sandi  wbo  know  bim  only  bj  his  irorks,  than  the  tvo 
books  whose  tilles  ire  have  just  truncribal.   Nearly  two 

ihe  world  wis  famished  irith  ■  coDcordance  to  hia  writ- 
ingi :  and  the  eatne  period,  or  aearl;  so,  before  the  poems 
of  Milton  recdved  the  same  tecogailion;  aad  with  tbe 
exception  of  the  Lanreate,  to  whose  poems  a  concordance 
was  published  little  more  than  a  twdvemonth  ago,  Keble 
it  tbe  only  modem  poet  so  read  and  gnoted  as  to  call  for 
sach  an  accampaniment  to  his 
book  is  of 


itereellng  character.    It  cc 


of 


Hnrslay  'Vionge  and  its  {doas  houaehold;  but  what 
will  be  very  acceptable  to  all  the  admirers  of  Keble,  an  in- 
tenaUugninniDg  com  mentary.explaininK  all  aaions,  clear- 
ing up  dark  passans,  aod  nnveiling  hidden  beauties,  in 
tbe  two  setiei  of  devo^onal  poems,  which  hare  leavened 
Ihe  reliKiaas  literature  of  the  day  to  aa  extent  of  which 
it  il  dlfflcnlt  to  forMce  the  limit. 

Urn  BaydK  Striei.    A  Dietumary  of  Science,  eompraing 
Attromamy,  ChtmiMtry,   DynanUei,    Eleclrieityt    Heat, 
Bydndynamia,  Byebvttatiei,  Light,  JUagiutiivi,  JHe- 
daxict,  JHctecraliigy,  Pnetniuiiia,  Sound,  and  SInticl. 
Prteeded  by  an  Eiiaa  on  the  Fhyiiad  Seiencei.  Edited 
by  G.  F.  Kodwell,  F.R.A.S.,  F.d.S.     (Moson.) 
There  can  be  no  qnestlon  of  the  utility  of  hooks  of  thia 
when  properly  executed.    Tbey  are  specially 
loi  to  two  clasMS  of  leaders.     Tbey  are  useful  to 
ae  who  aecatioQally  dedra  iaformation  upon  special 
nts  of   sdentilic   knowledge,  bnt  whose  ivocatiooa 
Dot  allow  them  time  to  demote  to  a  Ihoroogh  study 
Uiem ;  and  th»y  are  useful    alw  aa  compendinms  of 
infonnation  for  those  who  in  theae  days  of  competitive 
examinatloiu — when  everjF'body  is  expected   to  know 
every) bJDg— desire  to  obtam  a  general,  if  not  thorough 
knowledge  eA  physical  science.     It  is  no  wonder,  there- 
fore, that  Ihe  publishers  of  Haydn's  Dictionary  of  Dalit, 
who,  encouraged  by  the  success  of  that  invaluable  hand- 
book, have  decided  on  publisbiuff  a  series  of  analogous 
volumes,  should  follow  up  their  Dictionary  of  Biogtaphy 
with    a  Dictionary  of  Soience;  and    they  have    done 
wisely  in  securing  in  its  preparation  the  seaietance  of  the 
wveril  eminent  men  whose  names  are  recorded  in  the  List 
of  Contributor*  which  precedes  tbe  Edilor'a  "  History  of 
the  Pbyncal  Sciencce.' 

7^  Yortrhirt  Areh^otogieal  and  TopographiealJtmmixI. 
Vol,  J.,  pp.  S9^.    laued  to  Membert  only.    (Bradbury 
and  Evans.)     London,  1S70.    8vo. 
The  first  volnme  of  this  jonniBl  is  now  completed,  con- 
taining many  interesting  articles  on  the  Topography  and 
Archeology  of  the  greateat  and  moat  intereatmg  orEngliah 
connties.    Soma  excellent  illustrationa  add  moch  to  tbe 
Tolmne.    When  we  mentton,  amongst  its  contributors. 
>Kh  antiquaiiins  ■>  Canon  Raine  and  Robert  Davies, 


Esq.,  of  York,  a  sufficient  guarantee  is  given  of  the  ac- 
curacy  and  value  of  the  journal.  To  add  to  Oie  nsefnl- 
nesa  of  the  book,  a  most  carefully  compiled  index  \i 
1,  in  which  nearly  every  person  and  plaice  ia 


Sir  Johh  Maclean. — We  are  pleased  to  record  that 
the  Gazette  of  Tuesday  announces  that  the  Queen  had 
been  pleased  to  conAr  the  honour  of  Knighthood  on  Sir 
John  Maclean.  Deputy  Auditor  of  the  War  OtEoe ;  for 
tbe  gentleman  in  question,  who  is  the  author  of  The  Life 
of  Sir  Peter  Carea,  published  in  1857,  and  tbe  hiatorisnof 
The  Deanery  of  Brigg  JUanor,  in  the  county  of  Cornwall, 
baa  been,  as  oar  readers  will  remember,  a  frequent  OOD' 
tributor  to  these  pages. 

T^K  Death  of  tub  Dkax  oy  CASTERBOar.  — The 
Rev.  Henry  Alfbrd,  D.U..  died  at  Canterbury  on  Thursday 
week,  after  a  verj'  short  illntM,  he  having  preached  at 
the  Cathedral  on  the  preceding  Sunday.  lu  Dean  Alford 
the  Church  of  England  haa  lost  one  of  the  most  active, 
intelligent,  and  liberal  of  her  sona  ;  and  if  any  evidence 
were  wanting  as  to  the  high  character  of  the  hunent«d 
digcitaiy  it  would  be  found  in  the  presence  at  his  funeral 
of  men  of  all  shades  of  rehgions  opinion.  The  Bishops  ot 
Gloucester  and  Salisbury,  Uie  Deana  of  Westminster  and 
Ely,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Stoaghtoo,  and  the  Rev.  Newman 
Hall,  all  alike  testified  by  their  attendance  their  sense  of 
the  worth  of  this  eminent  Christian  scholar. 

TiiK  Abhmolkan  Museum.— The  new  Keeper  of  tbe 
Ashmolean  Museum,  Mr.  Parker  ot  Oxford — whose  leal 
and  knowledge  vie  with  each  other — has  just  published 
the  Interesting  Lecture  on  "  The  History,  Present  Sute, 
and  Prospects  of  the  Collection  "  under  hia  charge,  de- 
livered by  him  to  the  Oxford  Architectural  and  Hla- 
tottcal  Society  in  November  last,  which  our  readers  will 
find  well  worthy  of  their  attention. 

lnTEBNAiioirAL  ExHiBiiiON  OF  1871.— The  following 
noblemen  and  gentlemen  have  consented  to  act  as  jndgce 
to  select  pain&gs  for  the  forthcoming  Exhibition : — 
TheViseonnt  Bury,  M.P. ;  Tbe  Lord  Elcho,  M.P.;  Sir 
Coutta  Lrndsay,  Bart.;  AUred  Eimore,  Esq.,  R.A.  (repre- 
sentiug  the  Royal  Academy)  \  Alfred  Clint,  Esq.  (repre- 
senting the  Society  of  British  Artists) ;  Alfred  Hunt,  Esq. 
^presenting  the  Ijociety  of  Patutera  in  Water  Colours) ; 


BOOKS    AND    ODD    VOLUMES 

WASIID  TO  PHBCHASE. 


Eunnd  VwXH^i oil^imaoi  Sl«rne,  ftom  tbe  FKlDtlrLEbr  Sir  Jothoft 
EnnvTed  Portnlt  oT  LAdj  Afuy  Fe 

(KlherKstUB. 
An  EnamTlna— Tbe  gbIj  Dauflilcr.bwi  cu  umriu  T.  .J 
Wuleil br  llH  Kec-  Jatm  Pidtfurd^.A; Boltoi 


•n.t  Cc.,ClBillMm-        O 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


[*•»  S.  TII.  Jam.  21,  '71 


tfottcnf  ta  <«rrtit|iotiIunU. 

Wt  art  tampeHfl  to  poilpone  unlS  next  attk  teetHtl 
Notes  OD  Booki  and  Bepliea  lo  Mtcerat  CorretpnudeHtt. 
Htberhia.     Rathtd,  and  under  comidtration. 

HoVR-QLAaSKS     DT     PUU^tS.— ClURICUS    (Bfif^tOD) 

wiB  fimd  Mil  ivlgtet  trtattd  at  grtat  lemgth  in  aumtnnu 
artialei  in  ow  FirMi  and  Stcoud  Seritt.     Sec  Index. 

W.  G  (Rlcbmood.)  T^mit;  Imt  tt  "X.&Q."2°' 
S.iv.*7,79. 

X.  Y.  Z.     a-KldiMg-i  SnlTalk  (3  vols.  4M,  1846-8)  vW 

F.  G.'l  ^mirv  m  (o  tir.  bat  mndt  nf  prrraUing  mail 
palling  through  tcalli  an-l  Jfonri  ihfuJd  be  addrattd  In 
lis  BDiUer. 

R.  G.  F.  (Sindgate.)      Wt  da  tot  hm  imj  yauti^ 

3.  C.  Will  find  the  informaCim  retptdiag  Ike  mertd 
Jferilli  mtnliatid  Ay  him  it  Bn/dgt'i  Edition  tf  Collins'a 
Psenigg. 

t*.  ir^llmnMwr.'IraiHf,  PTC. 


WMUJnnvs  Btubt.  Stsi 


ir/iir  of  wa-uAM  dTllanB.  v 


^ 


i.  BULLOCK  bpRs  to  annou 

iHrtlilaC  A^HDHfn  of  Oil  P»lnlLHn  huiiiuuic  >uu  uu« 
rJnBi  ClBlBt  Proof  Ello«vlnn;  11  lUre  CcJl[cHn.i  of  oLdPoIian 
M(K*  or  Oa  OBrn  ITI.  ccrin].  moniileit  hi  IhiM  Urn  nU.  i 
|M<  Sal  ofthl  niDitnUd  IiHidiiii  Hen  i  bh  i.atim\  Fmltu 


ar  di/f  prior  011  rvdrt  <rf 


3  PORTRAIT  COLLECTORS.  — JoHw  Srmraow 


*  UTHORS    ADVISED    WITH  as   to  Coat    of 


TO  bo  SOLD,  a  BOOK  of  MATHEMATICS  m 

nrnvki/ITid  >Ik  Uit  Hit  of  hli  ftno>  ilaSlnu.  In  111)  trn  ki 


Fhotograplis  of  Fenona,  Pictures,  &  PlaoM, 


if  B.  HOWARD,  Suinan-Deiitigt,  S3,  Pleot  Streot, 
l|    hM  MndHMI  la  estlnlr  mw  ilMiprlrw  ig  ABTITICIAl 

OTO,  Ind  ■Hboal  iiirliiii.  vIna.  or  UiUiuat  Iber  m  fHMIj 


Ssnsisrs. 


MtW  ta  «  yh  w  ll»i  1MML  JM.  —iSj 
Mftil  In  BUMkaUiib-iElhM  BMN. 


THE   PLAT3  OP  PHILIP  KASSIHOEK. 


THE    W0BK8    OP    CHBI8T0PHER 


BEH    JOirSOV'8     W0BK8,    COKPLBTE. 


FABTBIBGE    AND    COOFEB, 

MADUTACTDRINO  STATI0NBB3, 
1*1,  Flset  Scnet  (Comsr  ofChnnixTj  Line). 


iV  PAFER-Iini>nindin>!l>y.k-U,M 


u.  u.  per  Ijm.  MlifaE*  Bucl  Ctw  DM 
Vonoffniuk  »o  lottn,  frm  te,i  tkfH  lic« 


•i  FoMan  Solid,  WriUaf  dan,  fi 


XHE    NI 


"OLD  ENQLI8H"  FURNITURE. 


COLLIITSOir  and  LOOK  (late  Herring). 
CABnrBT  MAEEBS. 

1»9,  FLEET  STREET,  £.C.    ErtabUebad  1782. 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHAN0/NQ8. 

■llUtlaH  of  nR  iil4  BROCADES,  DAMAAK3.  ud  OOBELUf 


UW,  FLEET  STSEET,  LONDOX.   ErtiMUhm  liai 


4*S.Tlt  jAit.i8,7l.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


L011D02T,  SATVUDS  T,  JAKVAST  S8, 1«1. 


CONraHTB.— H*  161. 

HOraSi— Th*Qiul(ariaIte>en  Mtb»  Biilidilliueam: 
HOamb  L«M«ri  of  tbe  AbM  d«  Fleunr,  Count  de  Mot- 
tUIil  >mJiiU«i.  as— a  BUok-GoUDtrr  tieeDd,  H  ->  Pedl- 
BMitf  HamtlbeHuloHki]:  Buon  BiURe, n.  —  A  Ne<r 
liBirnQm  PBru.TS''ChliulIsiii»~"01d  Father  Antic, 
tteliw"  — PolkLoTB:  FroMOQ  thoSbortertlMr  — a»t- 
Ikk  goe4etl«  — EtonMcribsd  to  Xlunlora  Hook  —  Lord 
AdKio'B Oplnton  of  GerniinGen«>k  — An  Iiiwrlplian — 
OaBbu  — TbeJtiteJoKph  pukn— PuroeH  Abbeyud 
tbs  Cbetliui  BDOiet;.  73. 

OUBRIKS :  —  Vriut  Edition  ol  the  Bbbon'  Tenlon  wu 
nnd  bj  th*  TrmnilBton  or  the  AutbiHlMdTerfloi]  of  1811  r 
T*  —  "  Ari» !  Aii« !  BriUimta'i  Bora,  Arjn ! "— Au»ttn 
hmilT— Amu  of  CfaiTlemiae— Tin  Dnf  Old  Woman 
—DeOounr:  Kins»l8— Derby  PwoeWn— Gentlemen  — 
BUmp  OlbKMi  — Onck  Tnoriitlon  —  I«d«  OrlinMoii'a 
Onn  Id  TewinCfaurebtud— TheCuaof  Marj  Jobnn 
—  Loocaof  BijntOD  — Lionel  Lane,  Vke-Adoiinil  oT  tho 
Fleet,  ma  —  "  Mal«  BritSDnions"  — Sir  George  Moore  — 
"Pboc*  fortitsr  "  —  Pnnce  PueoUer  Uuskwi,  Ac,  Ti. 

BBFUB6:  —  American  "NMiooal  Song."  78  — Ordrelm- 
p«ri>l  Aaiatique  do  Moisle  llniienelle,  lb.  ~  Wrong  Datea 
in  certain  Biwnphiee.sa  —  Forlnilt  and  SkuUi  of  Caro- 
Iw,  le.  —  flwWUliiin  Koger,  KM.,  BS  —  Mr.  Windham 
and  the  Bsporten— Legal  c:ommonti1ape*,^ni]).Jamei  I. 


Bod"  —  Cbowdfl-  — 
Duke  or  Seat  Id  Can 
ITotea  (Hi  BikAb.  Ac. 


Ic  Lore:  Teeth  —  E.K.H.  the 


THE  GUALTEBIO  PAPEES  AT  THE  BEITISH 
HDSEUH :  AUTOGRAPH  LETTEBS  OF  THE 
ABBE  DE  PLEDBT.  COUNT  DE  MORVILLE, 
AND  niLIEN. 

Knee  the  appeuanee  of  my  last  article  in 
"N.  &  Q."  I  have  been  informed  that  the  Mar- 
chen  Campejia  is  engaged  upon  a  history  of  the 
Stuart  family,  whiui  is  to  compiiBe  a  large 
mmiber  of  quotations  from  the  Oualterio  MSs. 
The  fint  two  Tolomes  of  the  -work  are,  I  believe, 
actually  printed,  and  will  be  pabliehed  as  soon  as 
the  otate  of  the  Continent  renders  undertaldDgs 
of  a  literary  kind  tolerably  feasible.  In  the 
meanwhile  my  readeis  cannot  feel  Bunirised  at 
my  withdniwiDg  the  promise  I  had  made  of  for- 
warding to  "  N.  &  Q.''  a  few  specimens  of  Queer 
Maria  of  Modena's  correspondence.  I  would  not 
OD  any  consideration  whateyer,  even  seem  to  taki 
away  from  the  interest  of  the  MarcheBa's  book 
aBdtheQuAlterio1US9.areBOiichiadocnmeDts  of 
all  kinds  that  I  can  draw  upon  them  for  many 
piquant  paragraph  without  eo  much  as  alluding 
to  the  Stuarts.  Tbe  following  letters  refer  to  the 
fajetary  of  Fraoce,  and  the  one  I  publish  first  was 
aUi^saoi  to  Cardinal  Gualterio  bytheAbb^de 


it  post  of  goremor  to  the  young 


Je  me  ttitte  qua  V.  E.  n'a  pu  tootVfaJt  oubM  im 

icien  wrvileDT  qa'elle  honoroit  de  see  bont^  et  qui  a 
inoara  Tail  nne  profeBaion  particaliire  de  lai  £tre  atU- 
i6.  J'a;r  rhmoeiu  d'escriiB  &  Sa  Saintetri  poui  abtooir 
d'elie  nn  iadolt  poor  conf^rer  ea  commende  tons  lea 
prieard  d^pendanta  de  nnn  abbaye  da  Tournna.*  Ja 
ania  oblige  de  ma  servir  de  plnsieura  gens  de  leWrea  pour 
r&iQcatioa  do  Roy,  et  ja  ne  poia  leor  faire  aneanWen 
qoB  par  le  moyen  da  cat  indoll.  Si  V.  E,  Monedgneur, 
veut  bien  m'accorder' Thonneur  de  aa  protecliwi  dans 
calls  ocea»ioii,j'«ptre  qne  S(  Saintel^  ne  ma  reTonra 
pas  cette  giice,  de  laqaeQe  certainement  ja  ne  veaz  faiia 

3q'ud  bon  nsage.  Le  Boy  ae  porta  par&ilemeat  bien,  et 
onne  de  grandee  eap^raacee.  Je  profite  avec  plaiair  de 

V.  £.,  et  raaaarer  du  re8pMtD«Dx  attachemeot  avec  le- 
qaelje serai  touta  marie, 

le  tris-hnmble  el  Iris-ob^iasant  aetvitenr, 
A.  F.,  anoien  ^Teqoa  de  Fr^qs. 
Paria,  te  1*  mara  1717.1 

M.  de  Morville,  the  author  of  the  next  letter, 
had  been  ambassador,  and  then  Secretan  of  State 
for  tbe  Navy;  hia  colleagnee  in  the  adminiatrt^ 
lion  organised  after  the  death  of  Cardinal  Dubois 
were  M.  de  Maurepas,  M.  de  Breteui],  and  M, 
d'Argenson,  ail  young  men,  like  himself.  (See 
Bar^'t  Joynu^,  Charpw.tier's  edition,!.  297.) 
A  Tersaillea,  IT  aooat  172S. 

Je  regards,  MooadgDanr,  comme  nn  des  premieii,  et 
en  mime  tempa,  comme  an  dea  plua  agrSibles  soina  du 
miniatttre  que  la  Bof  m'a  coaM,  celnj  d'informar  votre 
Em°*  dee  cbaneemena  auxquela  la  mort  de  M.  le  Card' 
DaboiB  a  donn^  lieu  dans  lee  diapoaitiona  da  goaremO' 
ment.  Le  R07  a  remia  VadmlniBtratian  g^nfrala  dea 
affaireadasonrOTanmehH.leDuc  d'Orl^ana.qoi  a  bieo 
vooln  accepter  le  litre  et  ae  charger  dea  fonctiona  de 
premier  minietre.  Sa  Hajest^m'aen  mema  temps  bonord 
de  celuj  de  aecr^talre  d'^ac  dea  afiurea  ^traag^ies,  poor 
ex&nter  sous  lea  ordres  el  soua  lea  yens  de  §.  A.  K.  ce 
qaipeut ;  avoir  rapport. 

(Tasl  SODS  ca  titJe  et  sooa  celaj  de  I'homma  dn  monda 
qai  parte  an  pins  baut  point  la  veneration,  le  z^le  et  la 
iKvonement  pour  V.  Em"»  que  je  la  aapplia  da  ne  ma  pas 
lefuaer  lea  secours  qu'elle  vouloit  bien  denner  h  mes  pi^ 
d^ceSBeuni  dana  cet  important  emplov,  par  celte  corras- 
pondanca  oil  ils  out  puia«  si  soavent  lea  avis  et  las  con- 
Bcila  lea  plus  utiles  au  aarrice  du  Boy,  C'eet  una  giaoe 
qne  je  demande  tr^lnstaioment  &  V,  Em~  en  Inyprotes- 
tant  quej'en  auray  la  plus  parfalte  recoDneiasance. 

Je  TOudtois  bleu  qua  la  coujoDcture  ojl  nous  noua  trou- 
vons  melalssit  tout  la  tempa  n^cessaire  poor  r^pondre 
die  anjourd'huy  ii  calles  de  ses  lettrea  dont  M.  le  Card, 
Daboia  ne  lay  avoit  paa  marqu^  la  r^ption  \  elle  recon- 
_,..„..    „..   — =!_,    .!,_    .1,^  port*  aveo 


d'nn  mi^moire  coDcemant  M.  la  Due  de  Comia,  dea  inU- 
r£la  duquel  je  me  feray  un  objet  capital,  comma  de  tout 
ce  qui  aura  rapport  k  ceni  da  V™  Em"  ct  b  sa  aatis- 
factioo.  C'eat  ca  dont  je  lasupplie  d'etre  penuad^  et 


*  Flanry  had  reaifpied  bia  bisbopric  in'order  to  be 
nearer  Madame  de  Hainlenon,  irho  iras  at  the  bngbt  of 
her  poner,  and  he  had  accepted  as  aoompenaatJOD  tbe 
Abb^  orjouniDB,  in  Bargandj.     Sm  Smt^im    ' 


obyTLiOOglC 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4"S.TII.Jah.28,*7L 


DB  MORTILLB.* 

Cardinal  Gualterio  was,  m  we  see,  the  faithful 
and  indefatigable  adviaer  of  the  French   Crown 

on  matters  of  foreign   policy;    his  cor" 

experience  gpave  the  utmost  value  to  t 
Bpondence  which  he  carried  on  with  the 
Bt  VerauUeB  and  their  a^nts  abroad;  and  his 
■well-known  partialitj  for  France  had  transformed 
him  into  a  kind  of  uon-official  chargi  iTaffaira, 
whose  duty  it  tras  to  watch  ttie  procaedings  of 
the  coalitJOD,  and  to  keep  up  a  leeltDfr  ofcor- 
diality  between  the  Pope  and  His  Most  Cbristiaa 
U^eatf. 

Unrville  writes  to  him,  it  will  be  observed,  in 
a  tone  of  great  obeequioueness  : — 
Je  ne  peax  ma  dlapenwr,  MonseigncDT,  de  marquee 

encore  plus  particuli^rement  i  Voir-  "-' — 

billet  edpu^  coriibieii  je  tuis  touchi!  di 


-i" 


re.  J'ai  fiit  part  i.  M.  le  Garde  dea  Seesaw  f 
n'a  fait  la  Rrllce  de  m'^crire ;  il  y  eat  pluH  ser 

u'il  parta|;e  bien  viTement  arec  may  la  ri 
:ocHie  je "  """" 


lui  I 


A  juali 


IS  la  rsUlion  que  i'au 
ie  CDtifiauce  hbdb  bori 
le  ma  conduite,  et  a 


Emineuce  le  ti6a>buinb1e  et 


k  Vocre  Eminence, 

ana  la  plane  danlje  auts  re- 

»  en  Yotre  Eminence  sen  U 
e  paroitra  loujoura  le  seul 
jrvir  pour  remplir  dignement 
tny  et  i.  Son  AUeaee  Rnyale 
lupplie  done  Voire  Eminence 
et  de  croire  qae  peraonne  an 


De  M  or  villi. 


A  Teraaillet,  ce  Si  aapl' 

The  fourth  letter— the  last— which  I  shall  gire 
here,  is  one  of  the  most  interesCing-  in  the  whole 
series ;  it  was  written  to  Cardinal  Gualterio  by  a 
well-known  personage,  Julien,  who,  after  having 
been  a  Protesljint,  and  even  received  a  colonelcy 
from  the  Prince  of  Orange  (William  III ),  had 
Tetumed  to  France  and  embraced  the  Komnn 
Catholic  religion.  Court  says  of  him — "  Sou  z^le, 
amer  et  bigot,  ne  liussoit  rien  a  d^airer  a  cet  ^gard. 
Lea  Protestants  n'eurent  pas  d'ennemi  plus  redou- 
table."  (ffitt.  de  la  Guerre  de«  Civame>,  vol.  i. 
153,  164.)  Julien  plaved  a  conspicuous  part  in 
the  persecution  directed  against  the  Camisards. 


J'>nirayiFaria,nion  Incomparable  Seigneur,  le  IS 
dn  Gourant,  et  hnict  jours  aprfea  ie  vina  i,  «eKe  belle 
campagne,  oil  nous  pawons  agr^blement  Ie  tempa,  ^loi- 
gni!  dea  diKoura  ennuTsnx  et  liulea  qui  aa  d^itlent  h 


Paris  enr  la  mibh^  gfn^rale,  Bnr  U  ruetf  d'ar^nt,et 
ear  ta  continuation  de  la  guerre  lorsqu'on  ae  flattoit  de 
celta  paix  tanE  ii»\iit,  et  qui  a  eat^  rompne  depuls  pea, 
conime  je  vaia  avoir  I'lionneur  d'aprendre  k  Voire  Emi- 
nence. Ella  aura  aceu  <("«  M.  da  Toroy  6Unt  k  La  Have, 
et  que  le  IS  may  milord  Halbourong  y  ^tant  arrivd 
aveo  milord  Tonsaend  [tic  in  the  mannaoript  j  it  ahonld 
be  Townaend]  pldnipotentlaiiea  d'AngleCerre.  lea  con- 
f^rencea  commenc^rent  le  19  eatre  cea  dens  measlearg, 
U.  de  Torcy,  U'  BoailU,  lea  trola  pensionnairea  d'Hol- 
lande,  H.  ie  prince  Eug^e,  et  rambaaaadeni  de  Savoye, 
ce  qui  continua  chaqne  Jonc.  Le  31,  le  comle  de  SioHU- 
dorf  ariiva  k  La  Haye  et  entia  le  meame  aoir  dana  leg 
lonferenoea  qui  avoient  eat^  tenuea  pen  de  joura  anpa- 
lavant  deux  fob  par  jour.  Endn,  pour  conper  court, 
M.  de  Torcy  demanda  k  cea  meiaieurs  lea  articles  par 
Aitil,  adn  qn'il  lea  portit  aa  Roy  pour  a^avoir  ai  S.  M. 
tea  voudroil  aigner,  et  CB  miniatre  eatant  arrivrf  le  1"  du 
courant  k  Venailles,  il  y  ant  conaeil  le  2  aoir  et  matin,  oil 
cea  articlea  furent  truuvea  ai  dura  et  meame  ai  injarieux 
it  la  peraonne  du  Roy,  que  S.  M.  ne  put  ae  n<eaudre  &  lea 
aigner,  de  aorte  que  tout  tourne  k  la  guerre  el  plna  k  la 
paiit.  Toicj-,  k  ce  qu'on  pnblia  k  Faria,  I'artiole  easentiel 
eur  tequel  le  Roy  a  rempn.  II  est  question  de  faire  revenii 
Pbilippe  V  d'Espagna  dana  deux  moia,  el  de  donner  pour, 
eearete  et  otags  Bayonne.  Pampelune.  Fontarabie  et 
quelqnea  autrea  places' en  Flandres  fronti^rea  de  rArtoia, 
toates  lesjuellea  placea  reateront  am  ennemia  ai  au  bout 
de  deux  muis  le  Roy  d'Eapagne  n'est  paa  rerenu  en 
France,  leaqnela  ennemia  pgutronl  continuer  la  gaerre 
contra  nous,  et  eomme  le  Roy  n'est  pas  maitre  de  fairs  re- 
venir  le  Roy  aon  pelit-fila,  quand  meirae  il  y  empluierolt 
la  force,  lea  deux  moia  ne  auSiroient  paa.  et  nous  anrioas 
Hvr^  lea  pottea  de  notre  Royaume  aux  ennemis.  V.  Kid'* 
volt  bien  que  cet  article  ne  peut  eatre  ex^uli!  da  la  part 
du  Rov,  maia  S.  M.  s'engageoit  de  parole  4  ne  aecnurir 
pina  le  Roy  SOD  petit-fik  11  y  a  nn  autre  article  anr  le- 
quel  le  Roy  anroit  eu  peine  de  ae  r^udre,  c'est  I'artide 
concemant  te  r^iabliiaement  de  ledict  de  Nantea,  qua 
lea  ennemia  demandent.  On  pretend  qn'ile  laiaaeut  I'op- 
tion  au  Koy,  ou  de  Ic  r^tablir,  on  bien  de  permettre  tant 
k  eeux  qui  aont  aortia,  qu'&  ccux  qui  voudront  sortir,  de 
vendre  pendant  SO  ann^ea  leurs  bieus,  et  ae  retlrer  dkos 
le  pays  Granger.  A  l'%ard  de  toua  les  aulrea  artiolee,  ila 
aont  aasei  dura,  puiaqu'il  s'agit  de  nous  remeltre  aux: 
Iraitda  dea  Pyr^niSes  et  de  Miinster,  k  la  demolition  de 
Dunkerqae,  de  Bergnea,  de  ThionvillF,  il  donacr  qudqae 
portion  da  baat  Dauphin^  aa  due  de  Savoye ;  touta 
I'Alaace,  et  meama  ce  qua  noua  aviona  avaut  le  traits  de- 
Uuneter.  It  y  en  a  qui  aieurent  qa'on  ne  demande  paa 
la  Francbe-Comptf.  Un  verra  lenra  iryuatea  pretentions 
dana  un  manil^te  que  te  Roy  doit  donner  an  public,  et 
cependant  on  eg  prepare  k  conlinner  la  guerre,  Non- 
obatant  la  rarel^  dea  denr^ea,  Uieu  veuille  qu'it  ua 
ienne  una  famine  dana  ce  royanme,  et  que  lea  enaeiiii& 
e  aoyent  anasy  henreux  en  Flandrea  eetta  campat^e 
n'ila  I'ont  iti  lea  pnfc&leatea.  Cast  le  mareachal  tie. 
'illara  qui  commande  notre  arm^  Manaeigneur  n'y  vs 
plus,  non  plus  que  M,  le  Due  da  Bour^rogne  en  Alsace  oik 
commande  le  mareachn!  d'Harcourl,  M.  de  Beaona  an  £a- 
pagne,ayanteat^  declare' avant-hiermarescbelde  France  ^ 
aana  doute  qu'il  y  gagnera  ce  bSton,  De  voa  chferea  nou- 
vellea,  mon  incomparable  Seigneur,  je  prie  V.  Emo 
d'ontonnar  que  voa  lettrea  me  aoient  tomonia  adress^es 
il  Avignon  par  le  pMon  de  Rome  on  de  G^nea ;  le  CDmt« 
d'Urban  aura  aoin  de  lea  retirer,  et  da  me  lea  envo^er  ^ 
Paris,  oil  je  eompte  de  reater  juaqu'en  aouat.  que  ja  re- 
gignerai  Orange,  a'il  platt  au  tieigneur.  Le  plus  aensibl^ 
plai^r  qneje  puisae  avoir,  c'eat  d'apprendre  le  bon  £tat 
dela  aanli!  de  V.E(ii°*,  et  que  la  Pape  I'aconBol^  detou^ 
I(«  malhenra  qne  la  dnrel^  et  Injustice  dea  Imp^rlau^ 
Tous  a  attir^  pour  avoir  ^l^  trap  fidella  b  Sa  &*«    ofc 


4'*S.TII.  JiB.  28,T1.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


71 


Diea  >olt  lou^.  et  me  donm 
Taiiun  V.  E.  d«  I'lttachema 
tueas  Bvec  leqad  je  leiay  t, 
de  Votra  Emiaaux,  1b  trta-hi 


Gdflle,  tenure  et  r«9pec- 
e  ma  vie.  MonseigDeur, 
ble«t  Icte-oMiaaant  aet- 

JUI-IEX. 


Mes  unities  icy  an  bravo  Tamisu  ...  .  .  , 
tUttbitt  i  V.  B.  Me«  rEspeoto  et  oWiaMnces,  a'il  vona 
pUit,  ft  meBsiean  Toa  frferea,  &  M.  le  Cardinal  Aquarlva, 
«l  k  U.  de  Piaanj  qaand  vous  lui  ifcrirez.  Moaaeigneur. 

J'adrerae  celle-cy  k  M.  VnbM  de  U  Tour,  <<vlque  de 
CavailloD,  et  eovoye  i,  Avi};non  i  Mad'  de  Guyon  la 
mvr«  le  piquet,  la  piiaat  de  le  faiie  mettre  an  pddoa  de 

■nla,  ttia  dismal 

.ing  the  last  few 

i  of  tbe  reigD  of  Louis  XVf.  is  certunly 
cimous  enough.  Qustate  Massok. 

HaiTDw-oD-tbe-Bill. 


A  BLACK-COONTET  LEGEND. 

Early  in  the  present  centuij,t  when  Bilston 
v&a  A  long  stnggling  Tillage  with  one  mnin 
etreet,  which  form^  e,  put  of  tbe  mul-road  front 
LondoD  to  Chester  and  Holyhead,  the  Bull's 
Head  (adrertiaad  for  sale  Lady  Bay,  1870)  was 
the  principal  inn  of  the  place,  and  a  well-known 
hostelrie  on  the  old  Irish  route.  It  was  Daturallj, 
and  almost  as  a  matter  of  course,  the  house  at 
which  the  town  worthies  were  wont  to  meet, 
diink  good  wholesome  home-brewed  ale  out  of 
the  Stafinidshire  black  glazed  pots,  emoke  their 
long  Broseley  pipes,  and  talk  over  Uie  politics  of 
thedajand  tne  tittle-tattle  of  the  ndghhouthood. 
One  bright  sununer's  eve,  while  thus  pleasantly 
ei^*g«d  in  the  modest  smoking-room  (coffee- 
Hioma  had  not  as  yet  come  into  existence),  a 
gentleman  rides  up  to  the  door,  followed  hy  his 
servant  with  tbe  saddle-bngs.  There  is,  of  coune, 
great  curiosity  amongst  the  assembled  guests  to 
know  who  the  stranger  may  be ;  and  from  the 
communicative  valet  they  soon  learn  that  ha  is 
an  Irish  officer  en  route  to  London.  They  become 
immediately  desirous  of  his  company  amongst 
UiemMlvea,  both  for  society  and  news' sake;  but 
the  gentleman  unaocially  keeps  his  own  room 
tipataua.  So  that  at  last,  driven  to  desperation 
ami  perchance  somewhat  pot-vnliant,  one  of  the 
(ompauj,  Mr.  Edward  Woolley  of  StonefieldB,  a* 


•  Brit.  Hus,  AddlL  MSS.  20,336. 

t  Bilston  wu  It  this  time  the  village  of  tbe  Block 
CoimlrT,  poaseasing  the  well-known  Icn-yard  aeam  of 
coal,  which  proved  the  making  of  the  diatrict,  but  la  now 
TMlud  out ;  and  having  a  larger  trade  in  bnckles, 
VQoden  screws,  Ac,  than  Wolveriiamptcn  ilaetf.  The 
third  Gaoige  gave  an  impetaa  lo  it*  declining  trade  by 
wtsring  a  bnckle  of  Bilston  make;  and  eueh  was  his 
nqeaty'a  affection  fbr  oar  connty  that  on  one  occasion, 
Wkao  a  nbbei;  had  been  committed,  he  said :  "  Oh !  if 
m  •  ataflbrddiice  man  that  has  done  it,  take  no  uotiCB 
ttUmt" 


Bcrew-maker  (i.  e.  of  iron  screws  for  wood),  sends 
up  the  servant  with  his  chronometer,  to  ask  tha 
Irishman  if  he  can  tell  what  time  it  is  by  an 
English  watch.  Qreat  anxiety  ensues  as  to  the 
result  Presently  the  aervant  returns  with  his 
master's  compliments,  and  he  will  be  down 
directly  with  the  watch  and  an  answer.  .4  great 
shuiHing  of  feet  is  heard  overhead;  and  by  and 
by  appears  Mileuus,  foUowed  by  his  body-guard 
bearing  a  tray  with  the  watch  and  a  brace  of 
pistols  on  it.  He  unheailatingly  announces  that 
he  b  come  to  challenge  the  owner  of  the  watch, 
and  hopes  he  will  have  the  "dacancy"  to  claim 
it  and  take  up  one  of  tbe  pistols.  (To  the  ser- 
vant: "Take  the  watch  round,  John  I ")  "Is  it 
yours,  urF"  The  old  doctor,  Moss,  was  the  first 
thus  addressed;  and  amongst  others  present  were 
Messrs.  Price  and  Bushbury.  "  No,  sir  I "  was 
the  invariable  answer  from  each  put  to  this  cru- 
cial test.  At  length  it  comes  to  uie  owner :  "  la 
the  watch  yours,  sbP"  "No,  sir!"  "Well 
then,  John,  smoe  no  one  will  own  the  watch,  put 
it  in  your  pocket ;  and  as  we  do  not  appear  to 
have  fallen  amonf;:  'jintleraen,'  bring  out  the 
horses,  and  we'll  nde  on  another  stage."  The 
tale  of  course  soon  got  abroad,  and  to  the  end  of 
his  career  poor  Woolley,  or  rather  "  'Oolley,"  as 
he  was  more  generally  called,  was  accosted  with 
"  What's  o'clock,  Mr.  'Oolley  P  "  Only  within  a  year 
or  two  of  his  death,  while  riding  along  quietly  in 
his  carriage,  a  young  urchin  thus  annoyed  him ; 
and  in  getting  out  to  make  a  dasb  after  him,  poor 
"'Oolley  "was  upset  and  grievously  injured:  so 
that  he  had  gooi  cause  long  to  remember  the 
loss  of  his  "  family  turnip,"  and  his  prestige  of 
Quixotic  combativeness.  Sta^ffokdiehsis, 


PEDIGREE  OF  HUME  THE  HISTORIAN  .- 
BARON  BAILUE. 

Hume  the  historian,  in  the  autobiographical 
fragment  he  left  behind  him,  states  that  he  was 
of  good  family  "both  by  father  and  mother: 
my  &ther'a  family  is  a  branch  of  the  Earl  of 
Homes  or  Humes,  and  my  ancestors  had  been 
proprietors  of  the  estate,  which  my  brother 
possesses,  for  several  generations "  (p.  S).  Tha 
name  of  the  family  estate  was  Ninewells,  and  its 
last  male  possessor  was  Bavid  Hume,  a  Baron 
of  Exchequer,  and  tbe  author  of  CommeiUariet 
upon  the  Criminal  Law  of  Scotland.  By  the  death 
of  the  baron's  only  son  Joseph,  which  occurred  a 
short  time  after  he  passed  advocate,  the  succes- 
sion opened  to  daughtera;  and  it  is  believed  that 
the  estate  now  b  in  possesuon  of  a  son  of  one  of 
these  ladies. 

Although  the  Humes  of  Ninewells  had  been      r 
for  at  least  three  centuries  in  possession  of  that  )  I C 
estate,  the  assertion  that  they  descended  from  a 
branch  of  the  Earli  of  Hume  cannot  be  accepted. 


72 


JfOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4"'S.VII.  JAr.M.TL 


There  18  no  legal  evidenee  of  the  fust,  and  the 
circumataQce  that  ia  1636  Andrew  Hume  of  Nine- 
mlla  was  with  James  Quhjtehead,  one  of  the 
baillies  of  the  prior  of  the  monaaterj  of  Coldiag- 
ham,  militates  afvinat  the  historian's  aMumption. 

One  of  the  duties  of  a  baron  bailtie  was  to  give 
obedience  to  tbe  preceptor  command  of  aninerior 
to  infeft  and  give  posaeesion  to  a  vassal  of  lands 
lield  of  the  oTer-lori.  Thus  Adam,  prior  oi 
Coldingham,  gare  prec«pt  to  Andrew  Hume  of 
Njnewells  and  James  Qujtehead,  or  Whitehead, 
on  Janoarr  34,  to  give  sasine  to  Sir  Walter 
Ogilvj  of  Dnnlugns  and  Alison  Hume,  bin  spouse, 
of  one-half  of  the  lands  of  Lnmniaden,  nunc  nun- 
atpat.  Faatcastle,  in  the  barony  of  Coldinfj^iAn] 
and  ghtre  of  Berwick, 

This  mandate  was  obeyed  iipon  Janturj  26, 
16S6,  and  the  fact  was  certified  by  a  nolaiy 

The  charter,  which  is  tbe  warrant  for  the  pre- 
cept besides  the  conrentoal  seal,  has  the  sabscrip- 
tions  of  the  monks.  It  is  also  addressed  to  James 
Whitehead  and  Andrew  Hnroe  of  NinaweUs  aa 
haHUti  oi  the  prior  and  convent. 

The  Hamea  of  the  border  were  more  ^ven  to 
warlike  than  peaceful  pursnits;  and  it  ia  not 
probable  that  any  of  the  cadets  of  the  family 
would  humble  themselves  to  beoome  baron  baillies 
of  tbe  prior  and  convent  of  ColdinghMU.  When 
held  by  the  functionary  of  an  earl  or  baron,  the 
baillie  had  wtthin  that  juriadictioD  of  the  over- 
lord great  judicial  powers,  being  aubatantjaliy  the 
commiaaioner  and  representative  of  hisraMter,and 
as  such  could  adjudicate  in  all  civil  and  certain 
criminal  eaaes.  To  discharge  the  duties  of  such 
an  office  required  a  degree  of  education  and 
legal  knowle<^  which  could  hardJy  be  expected  to 
be  found  in  a  moss-trooping  family.  Indeed,  baron 
bMlliee  were  generally  the  legal  advisers  of  the 
baron,  and  were  mostly  brought  up  like  the  cele- 
brated official  of  tbe  Baron  of  Brsdwardine,  as 
writers,  AngUei  attorneys. 

It  must  not  tharefore  be  imagined  hy  Southern 
tenders  that  a  Scotiah  baron  baillie  or  baiUlf  is 


come  irom  the  pen  of  hia  majesty's  phytidan, 
Br.  Patrick  Anderson,  was  presented  to  public 
notice.  We  give  the  title  from  the  first  edititai, 
printed  in  black  letter,  and  supposed  to  be  oniqaa: 
"  The  Copie  of  a  Baron's  Court,  newlj  trandatid  by 
WbKts-yon-callrhim,  Clerk  to  the  lame.  Priated  at 
Htlitim,  beside  Pamtatta,  and  are  to  be  gold  in  Cale- 
doaia."    (TiTClTe  leavu,  black  letter.} 

In  this  dramatic  production  the  cluef  peribnneia 
are  the  baron,  hia  lady,  his  chamberlain,  hn 
tMuUie,  bis  clerk,  his  officer,  and  his  teoanta  j  and 
the  plot  turns  upon  the  relative  duties  of  the  par- 
ties— not  forgetting  the  frailties  of  the  great  man, 
hia  pecunia^  difficulties,  hia  lady'a  Allies,  the 
trickeries  of'^  those  under  him,  and  the  vices  of 
tbe  time — and  presents  a  curious  and  probably 
tolerably  accurate  picture  of  tbe  portion  of  too 
many  of  the  lesser  borons  prior  to  the  death  of 
Charles. 

This  amusing  production  was  reprinted  at  the 
beginning  of  the  last  century  at  Edinburgh,  and 
in  1824  by  David  Webster— a  remarkable  man  ia 
his  way,  much  patronised  as  a  vendor  of  old  and 
curious  books  \y  Sir  Walter  Scott,  Principal 
Lee,  Archib^d  Constable,  and  other  collectors  of 
literary  rarities.  To  this  edition  Webster  prefixed 
short  preface  and  added  explanatory  notes.  It 
I  now  quite  out  of  print. 
Whether  the  historian's  ancestor  could  claim 
any  relatioBabip,  or  any  other  connection  othar 
than  that  of  a  clansman  of  the  haughty  Barons  of 
Hume,  is  problematical;  but  that  he  was  a  male 
descendant  of  Andrew  Hume  of  Ninewells,  a 
baron  baillie  of  tbe  prior  and  convent  of  Cold- 
ingham, is  plain  enough ;  and  the  inheritance  of 
an  estat«,  especially  in  the  Mcrse,  for  consider- 
ably more  than  three  centuries  in  the  same  fa- 
mily, is  in  truth  something  to  be  proud  of,  and 
much  more  eatiBfactory  than  any  remote  relation- 
ship, supposed  or  even  real,  to  the  higb-bom 
Humes,  who,  it  will  be  remarked,  had  no  earl' 
dom  until  1604.  J.  M. 


which  a  counsel  learned  in  peerage  lore 

fell  into,  to  the  amusement  of  hia  hearers  from 

the  North.    On  the  contra^,  the  baillie  required 

to  be  well  educated,  and  a  man  with  whom  the 

faaron  could  consult  and  advise  tthen  it  was  re- 

quinte. 

In  Scotland  there  used  to  be. in  former  days  no 
small  fondness  for  satire,  as  is  evident  from  the 
gTMit  variety  of  pasquils  and  equibe  of  that  de- 
scription which  have  been  preserved,  and  many 
of  which  have  not  long  since  been  collected  and 
published.  The  faarou  and  his  baillie  were  not 
allowed  ,to  remain  nndisturbed,  as  in  the  reign  of 
Oliarlesl.  the  foltowing  work,  uuderatood  to  have 


A  NEW  SONG  FROM  PARIS. 
Ah  an  illustration  to  Mr.  C.  W.  Bikbhah's 
communication  referring  to  "  the  unbroken  self- 
confidence  which  tiie  French,  like  the  Atheniana, 
have  ever  retained  amidst  the  greatest  diaaatera, 
I  beg  to  enclose  a  song  which  I  received  per 
balloon-poat^   with   a  note  mentioning  that  tbe 
same  superseded  the  "Marseillaise": — 
O  mon  Dieu  1  la  faim  me  presse ; 
Je  donnerais  pour  une  bifteck, 
La  prindpaut^  de  Heaae 

Et  le  grand-duch^  de  Tack. 
Je  donnerais  &  cette  henre 

Le  dudid  de  Penigny 
Pour  nne  livre  de  beurre 


De 


Bretagne  ou  d'larigny.  _:;  Q  Q  O  [  (^ 


*»8.TIL  Jaw-M,-;!.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


73 


Oh  t  y«aago  qnand  je  penee 

Que  le  mai^ehfLl  Lebceuf, 

Lusement  e'empUC  k  pEuise, 

£t  que  je  n'ai  pas  iin  ceuf. 

Je  Tois  toujoun  dana  mes  sooges 

La  iMneherie  I>uval 
Arec  sea  filete,  ses  louses, 

Kemplscfo  par  du  c&eval. 
Ls  IMfenae  Nationale, 
B'ime  liMrale  main 
De  chaiogne  nous  rdgnle, 

Fouraujomd'liui;  m&U  demain? 
Ces  bieos  que  Bieu  nous  envoie, 
Lftpia  de  gontti^  ou  cliieo, 
Je  laiBserfus  avec  joie 

Four  ddcouper  du  FniBBiea. 
TiiBse  humoiotis  lines,  which  are  perhaps  the 
notes  of  the  expirmg  swan,  are  anoajmous ;  but 
I  MD  iucliaed  to  think  that  tbe^  were  composed 
by  a  ;oung  lieaUtiaiit  of  eagineera,  who  waa 
^rtl;  educated  in  London,  and  fights  now  in 
Paris  in  the  edacity  of  an  electrician. 

I'EANCiattTJB  MrCHKL, 


CsQiA  Masia. — The  mania  for  cbioa,  which 
it  at  present  raging,  is  no  new  taste,  as  the  fol- 
lowing curious  extract  from  an  old  connti]'  paper, 
7ii«  Wettem  Flying  Post  and  Sherborne  and  Yeovil 
Mtraay,  will  Badafy  the  readeiH  of  "  N,  &  Q." : — 
"PIymooth,Feb.  la,  1760. 
"Uanr  people  in  tii«*e  parta  ire  '  Chiaa  mad' ;  thsy 
don't  onlf  Isj  ont  all  the  moaey  tiiey  are  oirners  of, 
bat  CTen  Pava  thrir  Cloaths  to  go  on  board  the  Cbina 
Ships  to  bay  Tea  Cops  and  Sancera.    Nothing  a  more 

"■— ^-"oto  the  Nation  than  the  China  trade;  In  the 

~  e  Goodi  are  chiefly  pnreha»ed  vlth  Treiunire, 
;  naoadl;,  tba  importation  of  China  pre- 

rmmptioo  of  our  ttone  ware — Tea,  the  Con- 

.    »i  of  MaltLiqDor — Wrought  ellk  the  Consamption 
of  onr  own  mannfactarvfl — And  Luttj,  now  two  thiraa  of 
I  the  Poei'i  labour  ia  expended  In  Tea  and  Sugar." 

H.  W.  D. 
I  "Old  Fathbb  Autic,  thb  Law," — Some  few 

Iftws  still  remain  unrepealed  in  the  statute-book 
which  at  the  present  iaj  are  more  honoured  in 
tfa«  breach  than  in  the  observvnce.  The  parliS' 
OMtita  of  Charles  IL,  Wilti«m  IIL,  Anne,  «nd  the 
first  and  third  Georges  seem  to  have  conaidered 
the  subject  of  buttons  to  have  required  legislation, 
■fl  Tarioua  mactmenta  of  these  reigns  tell  us  what 
battons  to  wear  and  what  to  avoid.  Thus  bj 
10  Will.  HL  c  2,  no  poreon  may  nee  or  sell  any 
battflns  made  of  doth,  serge,  drusget,  flie^e,  or 
camlet  on  pain  of  paving  forty  ahimnga  for  every 

IAatMB.     Buttons  Blade   of  wood   were  evidently 
I  emidered  prejudicial  to  the  intereste  of  society, 

far  the  Mitor  who  malieR,  sets  oo,  or  sells  any 
loeh  forfeite  for^  shillings  for  every  doira. 
Agijn,  by  6  Anne,  c.  6,  it  is  prohibited  to  nujce 


either  bnttons  or  batton-holee  of  doth,,  mi^, 
drugget,  Meze,  or  camlet  under  a  penalty  of  five 
pounds  per  dozen. 

The  next  enactment  is  that  of  4  Qeo.  I.  c.  7, 
which,  as  a  commentator  remarks,  is  so  looae  and 
ungrammatical  in  its  garb  that  it  might  have  been 
made  by  the  tailors  and  button- maliers  them- 
selves.  By  this  statate  the  penalty  ia  reduced  to 
fuT^  shillings,  and  a  power  is  conferred  on  the 
magistrates  of  sentencinR  the  offender  to  impri- 
sonment ;  and  by  the  Act/  Geo.  I.  at  1,  o,  12,  the 
wearer  of  ctmtrabaud  buttons  is  suhjected  to  a 
similar  penalty.  ;  Joluh  Sbabium. 

Folk  Lore  :  Frost  on  thb  Shortest  Dat.— 
The  workmen  (or  delphmen)  of  the  atone  quarries 
of  South  Lancashire  e^  that,  if  a  frost  sets  in  on 
the  shortest  dav  and  holds  out  for  twenty-four 
hours,  there  will  be  frost  for  the  next  three 
months.  Should  this  prove  true,  '»e  may  now 
expect  frost  until  the  end  of  If  arch. 

H.  FiBHWICZ. 

Scottish  SociETiEa. — As  Scotland  is  admitted 
to  be  deficient  in  coun^  histories,  it  baa  occurred 
to  me  (from  papers  which  have  come  into  my 
possesion)  that  a  mass  of  [reliable  materiab 
might  be  made  avmlable  for  supplying  to  a  cer- 
tain extent  the  present  want  by  publishing  in 
"  N.  &  Q."  lists  of  the  earlier  membera  of  the 
following  Bodettes,  &&,  from  their  commencement 
down  to  tbe  year  1800,  or  even  to  1820,  the  close 
of  George  In.'s  reign.  These  lists  would  gra- 
dually invite  useful  annotaUons; — 

1.  The  Society  of  Advocates. 

2.  The  Writers  to  the  Signet 

8.  The  Royal  CoUege  of  Sur^ons  (from  1687, 
with  any  lists  of  previous  prsctitioners). 

4.  The  Royal  CoUege  of  Physicians  (Edin- 
burgh). 

6.   Convmera  at  Trades  (Edinburgh). 

6.  Lord  FroTOsts  of  Edinbu^h,  and  Provosts 
of  Leith, 

7.  Royal  Sodety  of  Scotland, 

8.  Matriculations  at  the  ColleEes  of  Edinhu^h, 
Glasgow,  Aberdeen,  and  St.  Andrews. 

0.  The  Canongate  Kilwinning  (Masonic)  Lodge 
of  Edinburgh/ 

Many  lest  or  entirely  neglected  branehea  of 
andent  houses  might  by  tbe  above  means  be 
again  brought  to  Ught,  and  identified  with  con- 
siderable advantage  le  Scotch  historical  literature. 
Sp. 

Stout  iboribbd  io  Thkodobe  Hook.  —  An 
article  in  the  Sptdotor  of  Jan.  7, 1871,  entitled 
"  The  Author  of  tbe  IngoMiby  L»gtn4*,"  contaim 
the  following  passage ; — 


*  This  waa  the  prot«t]^  of  modern  Scotch  cIoIm. 
Amongat  ita  members  were  Johnaon'a  Boffwel),  Murrav, 
■eeretary  to  Prince  Qtarles,  aad  other  wetl-^nown  pubUe 


74 


KOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


lv»s.yu.iAa.n,iu 


"  An  Iiiah  BI017,  tolJ  bj-  Theodore  Hook,  msr  com* 
next  A  gentlflmaa  na«  dnviog  hia  serraot  iD  a  cab.  and 
Slid  to  him,  half  jooalarlv,  h«lf  ia  anger,  '  If  Ihe  galloi"- 
bad  Iti  due,  ron  rascal,  where  would  ynn  be  now  '.^ 
'Faitb,  then,  yoar  honour,'  was  the  replv,  'it's  riding  in 
this  cab  I'd  be,  aU  alone  by  mj-self,  may  be.' "     (P.  aO,) 

I  believe  this  storr,  though  in  a  slightly  dif- 
ferent form,  is  older  tlian  the  ere  of  Hook.  I  saw 
it  in  print  in  1827,  in  a  very  old  quarto  Tolume 
entitled  the  Cotmty  Magnzute,  where  it  ran  thua  : 
"  Aa  a  Tankee  so  cule  and  Pidd;  quite  tlj 

Were  riding  to  town,  they  a  gallows  pass'd  by. 

Sud  the  Yankee  to  Pal,  'If  1  don't  miketoo  (^ 

Give  that  gallons  iu  due,  and  pray  where  would  yon 
be?' 

Slid  Pat  to  the  Tankee, '  Sure,  that'*  easily  known ; 

I'd  be  tiding  to  town  by  myaeir,  all  alone.' " 

Wit.  Penqellt. 

Torquay. 

LoBD  Nblmu's  Opinion  of  Okrmah  Oexb- 
BiLB. — It  will  be  iaterestin^  at  this  time  to  call 
to  mind  Lotd  Nelaon'a  opinion  of  the  Gernuui 
generals,  as  expressed  by  him  in  1795 :  — 

"As  for  tbe  German  generali,  war  a  their  trade,  and 
peace  is  min  to  them ;  therefore  we  tnnnot  expect  that 
they  should  have  any  wish  to  finish  the  war." 

This,  it  is  to  be  feared,  i»  widly  Applicable  in 
the  jew  1871.  F.  C.  H. 

Air  InbcRIftton. — On  an  old  silver  spoon  at 
Etwall  Hall,  Derbyshite,  is  the  following  macrip- 

"In  dyming  bye  there  was  a  fall. 
But  yet  except  the  goodwill  of  us  all ; 
ThoQghe  fortune  frouude  agsinsl  our  will, 
Tet  hope  i  we!  ind  wil  dow  still ; 
For  in  3^*  straightea  of  Hagalan,  Captyan  Cotton,  so 

called  by  name. 
Caused  mee  to  be  nuid  in  y*  monthe  of  May,  1692  %  It 
is  Irewe  y"  1  aaye." 

UooRLum  Lad. 
GoAWBAir. — I  was  informed  the  other  day  that 
between  forty  and  fifty  Tears  ago,  an  old  lady  at 
UqcoIq  vore  "a  chawhan";  and  on  inquiry  I 
learnt  that  it  was  "  a  narrow  band  with  a  small 
neat  Mil  on  each  edge,  and  went  under  the  chin, 
irom  ear  to  ear,  to  fasten  the  cap  on  her  head." 
Tbe  word  appears  to  be  compounded  of  the 


TaB  LITE  JosBFB  Pareb9.— I  have  been,  dnce 
his  death,  Hoping  to  see  an  announcement  of  the 

fnblication  of  hia  memoirs  and  correspondence, 
believe  his  letters  would  be  found  as  full  of 
interest,  humour,  and  good  sense  as  Sydney  Smith's. 
Has  it  never  occurred  to  his  daughter  or  other 
friend  to  preserve  the  memory  of  him  by  tbia 
means  ?  Eixcbe. 

FUKHEU    ASBBT    AMD     THB    CHETHAK    So- 

CIBTI.  —  Ifl  it  not  matter  of  regret  that  when 


BO  much  has  been  done  for  Fountains  Abbey 
by  the  Surfeea  Sodety,  so  little  has  been  done 
for  Fumess  by  tbe  Cbetham  SodetyP  Would 
it  not  be  better  for  this  lenmed  society  to  discover 
and  edit  the  Coueher-book  of  Fumesa  than  to 
expend  its  funds  in  republishing  scarce  tracts? 
(4*  S.  vi.  149.)  The  Duke  of  Devonshire,  to 
whom  Fumeaa  belongs,  expressed  himself  some 
years  ago,  at  an  archceolof^cal  meeting  within  its 
walla,  fully  alive  to  the  sacred  trust  which  had 
come  into  his  hands,  and  he  would  no  doubt 
render  any  assistance  in  his  power  to  further  such 
an  object.  It  is  possible  that  the  Coucher-book, 
as  a  whole  or  in  detached  parchments,  may  he  In 
his  muniment-room ;  or  if  not,  a  search  among 
the  duchy  records  would  moat  likely  be  rewarded 
with  success.  Some  years  ago  the  Chatham 
Society  published  two  valuable  volumes  (the  T^an- 
cashire  Chantries)  copied  from  the  duchy  records, 
which  are  now,  or  were  promised  to  be,  as  access- 
ible as  the  other  natdonal  records.  A.  K  L. 


Ikvttviti. 
WHAT  EDITION  OF  THE  BISHOPS'  TEBSIOS 

WAS  DSED  BY  THE   TRANSLATORS  OF  THE 

ADTHOEISED  TERSIOS  OF  1611  f 

It  LB  stated  by  many  authors,  even  very  re- 
cently, that  they  used  the  edition  of  1668.  Such 
a  statement  once  made  is  quoted  by  various 
writers  without  eiaminatioD.  The  instruction 
as  given  by  Pettigrew  is — "  The  ordinarv  Bible 
readiu  the  Church,  commonly  called  Thehiihopf 
Sibh,  to  be  followed,"  &c.  No  edition  is  here 
named.  As  the  first  edition  of  the  Sishops' 
Version  was  printed  in  1668,  tbis  date  has  become 
almost  as  a  part  of  the  designation  of  the  veision, 
and  added,  as  it  seems  by  common  consent,  to  the 
term  "Bishops'  Bible";  and  therefore,  without 
examination,  it  is  said  that  the  translators  used 
tbe  edition  of  1566.  One  author  says,  "the 
Authorised  Veruon  was  based  on  the  Bishops' 

ibie,  1568." 

I  bave  compared  some  chapters  in  the  edition 
of  1668, 1672,  and  1602.  Aa  it  may  interest  some 
of  your  readers,  you  have  the  result  of  two  chapters, 
3  Kings,  chap.  vii..  twenty  veraes.  This  chapter 
of  the  1602  differs  in  twenty  places  &om  the  1668. 
Tbe  Authorised  Version  follows  the  1602  in  ten 
of  these  variations;  it  follows  neither  in  nine  of 


from  the  1666,  though  in  this  chapter  they  agree  in 
these  readings.  TaJce  a  chapter  in  the  New  Tes- 
tament, John,  cbap.  i.,  fifly-one  verses:  here  the 
1572  and  1802  differ  from  the  1668  in  thirty  placea, 
while  tbe  160S  differs  from  1668  and  1572  in  one 
place  only.  Thus,  in  this  chapter,  tbe  1572  and 
l6ffii  agree  in  thir^  differences  frma  the  1568. 


l*S.Vn.  Jjs.!8,7l.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


The  Snt  isBue  of  the  first  edition  of  1611 
follows  the  1672  and  1802  in  fifteen  places:  it 
follows  the  1668  in  six  pkcea ;  it  follows  ueitner 
edition  in  nine  places ;  and  it  follows  the  1602  in 
one  place  onl; ;  total,  thirtj-one  TariatioDS. 

So  that  twentj-six  readings  in  our  present 
Bible,  in  only  two  chapten,  are  due  to  the  edidna 
of  1602,  and  not  to  the  translators  of  1611  havbg 
alter«d  the  text  of  156B. 

It  is  very  probable  that  the  "ordinary  Bible 
read  in  the  Church"  in  1603  wa*  that  of  1802, 
or  other  late  editions,  and  that  but  few  of  the 
&iBt  edition  then  remained  in  use. 

It  was^  DO  doubt,  well  known  that  the  text  had 
been  reyised  more  than  once  aince  1666,  and  the 
translalora  would,  aa  a  matter  of  course  we  may 
■nppoee,  use  the  last  improved  text  printed  by 
the  Idng's  printer  in  large  folio.  Dr.  Cotton  gives 
eight  e^tiona  which  were  in  large  folio  after 
1668,  including  that  of  1602,  whidi  were  in  all 
probability  used  in  churches.  Other  chapters  are 
compared,  which  afford  similar  evidence ;  and  does 
it  not  show  that  the  edition  of  1602  was  the 
edidoD  of  the  "Bishops'  Bible"  used  by  the 
translators  of  our  prepent  Bible,  and  not  that  of 
1608  P  FuNCisFsT. 

CoihuD,  BrlaloL 

"  Abisx  1  Arisb  t  Briiaiiiiu.'b  Sons,  Abise  ! " 
Who  wrote  the  words  and  compoeed  the  music  to 
this  old  aea  song?  The  tune  is  spirited,  and 
merits  better  woras.  The  song  is  a  favourite  with 
oar  awloTS,  and  is  often  sung  to  a  cracked  fiddle 
in  the  parlours  of  Wapping  "  publics."  The  poor 
otd  blind  fiddler,  who  for  so  many  years  used  to 
scrape  his  tin  violin  at  the  doors  of  the  Bank  of 
England,  had  no  other  song.  N. 

AvsTor  Familt. — Among  the  Pilgrim  Fathers, 
or  at  the  same  date,  some  members  of  this  family 
emigrated  to  the  New  World,  and  their  descend' 
BDta  now  occapy  an  influential  position  in  the 
citf  of  Boston,  Maseacbusette.  They  posHess  an 
old  seal,  bearing  the  following  arms:  Argent,  on 
a  fesae  between  two  chevronels  sable,  three  cal- 
vary crosaes  or.  The.  arms  also  bear  a  label  of 
three  points,  indicating  that  its  original  owner 
was  the  eldest  eon,  and  that  his  father  was  stilt 
living  when  the  seal  was  cut. 

In  the  little  church  of  Kencott,  Oxon,  and 
wainst  its  eastern  wall,  there  is  a  monument  to 
Uary,  widow  of  William  Oldswnrth,  of  Fairford, 
CO.  of  Oloeter,  and  daughter  of  William  Austin  of 
Surrey.  I&r  arms,  identical  with  those  of  Austin 
of  Boston,  Massachusetts,  are  impaled  vrith  those 
of  her  husband,  Oldsworth.  I  should  say  that  in 
her  case  there  ia  no  label. 

I  am  very  anxious  to  trace  the  connection 
hctween  the  Boston  family  and  their  English 
^weitora,  and  I  cannot  help  hoping  that  I  nave 
kff«  got  a  cine. 


This  Mary  Austin  died  in  1686,  a^  seventy. 
She  must,  therefore,  have  been  bom  m  1616,  and 
must  have  been  a  contemporary  with  that  gener- 
ation of  her  family  which  migrated  to  America. 

Can  any  of  your  readers  help  me  here  ?  Wil- 
liam Austin  is  described  aa  "of  Surrey."  Perhaps 
thecountyhistorymightthrowaomehght.  When 
were  these  arms  granted  f  W.  M.  H.  0. 

P.S.  Mary's  son,  James  Oldsworth,  rector  of 
Kencott,  married  Anne,  daughter  of  William 
Mountsteven,  rector  of  Coates,  Gloster,  by  his 
wife  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  .Tohn  Feiebee,  rector 
of  Poole,  Wilts. 

Akks  op  CHABEEiCAaHS. — Where  can  I  find 
the  arms,  traditional  or  otherwise,  of  Charlemagne 
and  his  descendants,  including  Charles  the  Bald ; 
Hugh  Capet;  Geofiiey  Plantagenet,  of  Anjou; 
the  counts  of  Acquitaine;  counts  of  Navarr^ 
Sentia  and  Vermondois  P  W.  M.  H.  C. 

Thb  Dka?  Old  Womau. — Can  any  of  your 
readers  say  who  is  the  author  of  the  four  follow- 
ing humorous  lines,  well  known  in  Scotland  P  — 
"  '  Auld  wifie,  aDld  wifie,  will  ye  go  a-sheariug  ?  ' 

'  Speak  a  1ill1«  louder,  elr,  I'm  noco'  ilult  o'  beanng.' 

'  Auld  wiHe,  auld  wlfie.  will  ye  let  me  kisi  ye  ? ' 

'  I  hear  a  little  belter,  gir:  mav  b'  the  warid  bleu  ye.' " 
G. 

Edinburgh. 

[We  do  not  know  the  aothor  of  theee  lines.  But  wa 
remember  many  yean  ago— alas!  how  many !— hearing 
the  late  Ur.  Donee  repeat,  in  his  grand  soaorons  voice, 

"  'Old  woman,  old  woman,  will  yon  go  ■■shearing?'' 
'You  Dinst  speak  a  little  louder,  sir,  I'm  rather  thick 

o'  hearing.' 
>  Old  woman,  old  -woman,  will  you  let  me  kisa  yoa 

dsintUy  ? ' 
*  Tbsnk  yon,  kind  air,  I  bear  you  quite  distinctly.'  "] 
Ds  CouBCT :  KiMsALE. — In  one  of  the  earlier 
volumes  of  "  N.  &  Q."  I  think  that  it  was  proved 
by  reference  to  inquiaitiona  pott-morUm,  temp, 
:E!dw.  U.  or  III.  that  one  of  the  Lords  Einsale, 
who  appears  in  all  the  peerages  as  having  been 
succeeded  by  a  ton  as  next  baron,  in  truth  left  a 
tole  heireii,  whose  name,  t«  the  best  of  my  recol- 
lection, was  Alice.  The  names  and  dates  vrould 
be  an  assistance  to  me  in  connection  with  another 
subject.  S. 

Derby  Porcklaih.— Where  can  I  get  any  par- 
ticulars of  the  pottery  manufactured  at  Church 
(Jrealey,  in  the  attempt  to  establish  which  manu- 
facture Sir  Nigel  Qresley  is  said  to  have  lost 
80,0002^  f  Though  mentioned  in  Miss  Meteyaid's 
Life  of  Wedgwood,  very  little  seems  to  be  known 
about  it.     "=''■'  H.W.D. 

GEHTtEMBH. — Will  any  of  your  readers  inform 
mewbat  is  the  meaning  of  the  word  "gentlemen,"^  [p 
as  used  in  the  description  of  the  complement  of  i^ '  v. 


76 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*S,VU.  jAM.a8,Tl. 


Bisaop  GiBSOH. — Wantad,  informadon  reapoct- 
isK  the  motber  and  wife  of  the  R«t.  Edmund 
Gtbson,  who  diod  1748,  Bishop  of  London.  The 
wife'B  name  was  Joues,  and  she  was  a  co-heirees. 
The  mother's  name  I  do  not  know.  She  is  buried 
atBwnpton,  co.  Cumberland.  T.  C. 

Gbxbk  Truiblatioh.— We  read  at  p.  61  of 
HowAon's  lUutlrated  Guide  to  the  Carioaiiea  of 
Craven  (Whitaker,  1860)  that  a  tranalatdon  into 
Onek  elegiacs,  by  one  Andrew  Dennj,  of  the 


P.  J.  F.  GAMniiOif. 
LAur  Gbduiob's  Gkavx  nr  Txwnr  Cbuech- 
T&KD. — In  the  churchy  Bid  of  Tewin,  Herts,  is  a 
lemarkable  ash-tze«  growiug  out  of  the  tomb  of 
Ladv  Anne  Grimston,  nit  Tuftun,  daughter  of 
Lord  Thaaet,  who  died  in  1718.  The  tradition  is, 
that  being  doubtful  of  a  future  state,  she  expressed 
during  her  life  a  wish  or  prayer  that  if  there  were  a 
fvtwe  itate  a  tree  might  yraw  out  of  her  heart. 


What  foundation  is  there  for  this  traditi 

A.  P.  S. 

[Oddly  enoqgh  the  following  parimph,  extraeled 
from  tbB  Spiritual  Timci  (Dec  23,  1865),  bearing  on  the 
Mine  eubject.  reached  qb  aimaltaneously  nith  the  above. 
To  ua«  lli«  words  of  onr  correuiondcat  Mr.  Axon  ;  "Can 
Uij  one  elucidite  thia  marvdloas  leeend  ?  "  No  reftt- 
aace  to  It  is  mule  io  Clutlerbuck's  Iliit.  and  Aiitiq,  of 


ofao 


"  The  churchyard  of  Tew 


n  Hertforc 


e  Rating  place  of  the  mortal  remaios  of  Lady  Anno 
Orimstone.  The  'old  wife"!  tale'  of  the  neighbtnirhoad 
ia  to  the  eStet  that  the  said  Lady  Anne  tirimstane  was 
an  Athdat,  without  a  ehadow  of  belief  in  the  Deity;  and 
that,  30  Smi  was  her  belief  in  the  nun-esistence  of  God, 
that  at  her  death-bed  her  last  words  were  to  the  eSbct 
that  if  God  exiited,  seven  elm  treea  would  grow  out  of  her 
tombstone.  Whether  such  words  were  used,  and  in  such 
a  manner,  it  is  impossible  at  this  date  to  determine ;  but 
whether  the  tale  be  correct  or  not,  seven  elm  trees  have 
sprung  up  througb  the  solid  tomb,  and  bs,ve  broken 
awav  the  solid  masonrj-  in  all  directions,  msking  the 
reading  of  the  inscription  a  difficult  and  almost  impoasibte 
feaL  The  iron  railings  that  surrounded  the  manument 
are  in  many  places  firaily  imbedded  in  the  trunks  of  the 
trees.  The  numerous  names  carved  in  all  avulable  parts 
of  the  truike  atl«t  the  number  of  visitors  curiosity  has 
drawn  to  the  spot.  The  trees  are  each  distinct  and 
separate,  and,  notwithatandinD  the  straDgancss  of  the 
locality,  appear  to  thrive  well.  Many  suppositions  to 
account  for  their  growth  have  been  started,  but  some  are 
of  so  improbable  a  nature  that  the  country  people  still 
(Ung  to  their  favourite  story  of  Lady  Anne's  Atheiam."] 

The  Case  op  Mart  Jobsoh.— Can  any  North- 
of-Eofland  cotre^ndent  tell  me  whether  time 
hw  thrown  any  bght  upon  the  heavenly  music, 
blood-droppiuKs,  mock  suns,  and  strange  rapmnn 
which  excited  so  much  attention  in  die  Nortn 
some  thirly  years  ago,  and  concerning  which  Br. 


Clann^  of  Sunderland  published  a  drcumetantial 
narrative  in  1841 P  SooiT. 

3,  Gordon  TiUas,  N.W. 

Loses  OP  Batstoh.— ^Mi  any  of  your  corre- 
spondente  kindly  inform  me  where  I  can  find  a 
genealogy  of  the  family  shore  mentioned  ?  Burke 
{LoKded  Oentiy,  ii,  864)  says,  of  the  four  sons  (of 
"  Thomas  Long  of  Little  Che-rerill  snd  Melksham, 
who  was  baptised  1679,  died  1654),  the  youngeet, 
William,  was  ancestor  of  the  Longs  of  Baynton, 
now  extinct"  I  wish  to  trace  the  relationship 
said  to  have  existed  between  this  family  and  that 
of  the  late  Jolin  Palmer,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  Bath 
and  inTentoT  of  the  mail-coach  Berrice.  Wnlter 
Long,  Esq.,  of  Bath,  oifered  to  leave  his  property 
to  Mr,  Palmer  on  the  condition  of  his  taking  the 
name  and  arms  of  Long  of  Monkton.  This  Mr. 
Palmer  declined  doing,  and  ultimately  Hi.  Lonp* 
left  his  fortune  (on  the  aforesaid  terms)  to  Daniel 
Jones  (Long),  whose  mother  was  Ellen,  youngest 
daughter  of  Richard  Long  of  Rood  Ashtnn,  who 
died  m  1760.  H.  P. 

LlOHBL  liAUK,  VICE-AHIORAL  OP  THB  FlKBT, 

1653. — lam  desifous  of  ascertiuning  the  date  of 
this  officer's  death.  In  the  great  battle  a^nst 
Tromp  off  the  North  Poreland  he  acted  as  Vioe- 
Admiral  to  Admiral  Penn,  and  commanded  the 
Victory,  sixty  puns.  I  learn  from  the  Rot.  J.  B. 
Deane's  moat  mt«resting  life  of  General  Richard 
Deane  that  in  the  above  memorable  action  only 
one  captain  besides  General  Deane  was  kiUeJ, 
and  that,  singularly  enough,  his  name  has  been 
forgotten.  1  suppose  Vice-AdmimI  Lane  may  be 
identified  with  Lionel  Lane  (of  Beocles,  co.  Suf- 
folk J,  who  was  bom  in  1617,  andmarried  Dorothy, 
one  of  the  daughters  of  Edmund  Bohun,  the 
author.  He  belonged  to  a  Suffolk  family  long 
seated  at  Rendlesham  Tltuston  and  Oampsey  Ash. 
C.  J.  KosnisoK. 

"Mela  BRriAamcrrs," — There  hre  some  pam- 
phlets published  under  this  name :  one  curiosity 
IS  a  letter  to  the  Dilettanti  Society  on  the  wor^ 
in  progress  at  Windsor  Castle,  1827,  sufrgesting  the 
removal  of  all  the  building  except  the  lower  ward, 
and  erecting  in  its  stead  a  palace  of  dasaical  archi- 
tecture.   Who  was  the  writer  ?  C.  B.  T. 

Tbe  foUoninf^  title  appears  in  the  Catalt^oe  of  tlH 


1.  r*'.' 


British  A 


"Hela,  Britannicaa, 

"—  10  tha  Sodetv  of 

It  Windsor.    By 


the  Dilettanti  on  the  woriu  u 
M.  B.    London,  1817."] 

SiB  Qbokse  Hookh.  —  In  the  Hungerford 
pedif^e  in  Qough's  S^ptddirtU  Moautnatt*  is  a  . 
mamage  of  Elizabeth  Hungerford  with  Sir  George 
Moore,  Ent.  In  Hosre's  Himgerfordiana,  p.  2S, 
he  is  styled  "  of  London,  Knt"  Many  of  the 
Heraldic  Visitations,  &c,  refetred  to  in  Sims's 
Index  have  been  consulted  without  succeae.  Any 
reader  who  can  furnish  a  clue  to  the  paiticnlar 


«»aTIL  Jak28,710 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


77 


fftinilv  and  arms  of  the  aboTa-oamed  knight  will 
gieatl;  oblige  a  puziled  Seabcheb. 


Pris'CB  Pttboelbs  Mijsea.i;. — I  sfaonld  be  glad 
of  any  informatdoa  about  this  prince.  He  wrote 
two  biDoka,  Semiiatso  in  Africa  and  Taar  in  Qer- 
meaiy,  BoUand,  and  England,  Itait, 

Nehexuh  Bosbbs. — Wliat  ie  known  of  Nebe- 
miab  Kogera,  -vicar  of  Meaaiiig  and  prebendaiy  of 
Ely,  author  of — 

-  A  Mitroor  of  Hercv,  and  that  on  God's  P»rt  and 
If  an'a.  Set  cat  In  two  Plrablca :  I.  Tba  F«niteat  Citizeo, 
or  Haiy  Uagdatea'a  CooTenloD,  &c.;  II.  The  Good 
SanuuiUo,  Ac.  Londoii :  Piintad  b;  G.  H.  for  Edward 
Brewilct  .  .  .  1640." 

S.A. 

Sawhbt  Beasb,  the  Mah>eates.-— Tlie  sub' 

ject  alluded  to  in  4'*  S.  ti.  437,  6G9,  induces  me 

to  ask  whether  the  chap-book  history  of  the  above 

Scottish  penonage  has  any  foundation  in  fact  ? 

Stbpheh  Jackbon. 

sucosides  usb  tsb  "  codbi  slkaihioits. " — it) 
a  paper  by  Dean  Alford  od  "  The  Goepela  and 
Modem  Critidsm"  in  the  Conttrnporary  Review, 
T.  360,  there  is  the  followinf^  reference  to  the 
celebrated  Codex  StHailicut: — 

"A  eorrespondcnt  of  Tfte  Cuorrfinn  of  Jnne  12  of  this 
year  [1867]  is  aniioos  to  know  whether  the  internal 

factoiy.  having  had  hia  failh  in  that  genulnenesB  some- 
what'ihiken  by  the  narretiTe  prefixed  to  this  tract  of 
Dr.  Tisebendorfs  [i,  t  fKa™  umrden mwn-f  EvaJ^lkn 
vrrfaat  T  Leipsic,  lS6o,  which  baa  been  translated  for 
the  Belieians  Tract  Society  by  B.  H.  Cowper].  We  ate 
pcnaidd  Ilut  he  may  set  hi»  mind  at  reat  on  this  point. 
Tba  text  of  this  MS.  bears  to  us  the  strongest  possible 
marke  •>(  Driginalily  and  genalnenees.  If  any  man  were 
capaU^  tma  his  knowlei^e  of  ancient  MSS.,  of  forging; 
aach  ■  text,  it  woold  take  hia>  almoet  the  daiadoD  of  a 
lifa  (o  accompliah  the  forgery.  Besides  which,  we  are 
mable  to  see  in  the  very  straightforward  narrative  of 
Dr.  Tiacbendorf  any  grounds  of  suspicion.  One  friend 
'-  — ■-  " —  "-'i  trumpet  befere  him  somewhat  lood, 


idthis 


1.  Wei 


1  anxiety — oudis- 


pdlcd  bv  anytbiag  he  says  at  the  end- 
the  good  tnonka  of  St.  Uathcrine  have  got  hack,  or  are 
Hkely  to  get  back,  their  prefious  document,  which  was 
bonowed  to  be  taken  to  St.  Petersbnrg.~8ea  p.  17  of 
tks  OeraBB,  p.  94  of  tbe  tianalalion." 

A  diacnnion  of  this  question  might  perhaps 
iMkd  into  forbidden  ficlda.  There  is  one  point, 
hmrever,  connected  with  lischendorf 'b  discovery 
OB  -which  I  should  be  gtad  of  farther  information. 
It  ia  Raid  that  Simonides,  whose  audacity  aa  a 
fitersry  forcer,  has  been  many  times  mentioned 
IB  tliMe  ctunmns,  asserted  that  he  himself  had 
1  the  MS.  and  placed  it  in  the 
err  where  it  was  foimd  by  its  learned  and 

._ ^__  nf  t.w.n«tn«.  bv«i 


ftwtn  such  a  muuwiu  tu/et  as  Simonides,  should  b« 
refuted,  but  after  a  long  search  I  have  only  been 
able  to  And  an  alluaion  to  the  matter  in  Th* 
Aliautum  review  of  the  Coifer  iSmntftcui.  Will 
some  correspondent  be  kind  enough  to  say  whrae 
Simonides'  assertion  is  to  be  found  at  length,  and 
what  replies  have  beeit  made  to  it  P 

W.  E.  A.  A. 

Joynson  Street,  Strangeways.  * 

William  Skith,  1539-1655.— A  certun  Dr. 
Smith  preached  at  the  martyrdom  of  Ridley  and 
Latimer,  and  made  himself  oonepicaous  on  one 
or  two  other  occasions  of  a  similar  character; 
and,  from  the  testimony  of  another  martyr,  he 
appears  to  hare  been  a  pervert.  I  am  anxious 
to  discover  whether  this  man  was  or  wag  not 
identical  vrith  a  priest  of  the  name  of  William 
Smith,  who  was  parish  priest  of  Calais,  and  was 
banished  from  that  city,  after  recantation,  in  IS^. 
I  have  no  interest  in  the  preacher  of  the  sermon 
if  be  be  not  the  same  as  the  Calais  priest;  but  I 
ebould  very  much  like  to  ascertain  what  became 
of  the  latter.    Can  any  one  kindly  help  me  ? 

HXSMEKTRUDS. 

SwoKD  OP  Sib  Edwabd  Fust. — Can  any  one 
tell  me  what  hag  become  of  a  ulver-mouuted 
sword  which  was  presented  by  Charles  II,  to  Sir 
Edward  Fust  of  Hill  Court,  co.  Gloucester,  Bart., 
in  16C3,  and  sold  at  the  Hill  Court  Bale  in  1S46  F 

FORBST-BILL. 

jAcaiTES  Stella  (Crabb  Robinson's  Diary,  i. 
44T.)— In  the  text  of  this  pa^  Crabb  Robinson 
mentions  a  picture  _painted  in  Rome  by  Granet  in 
tbeyearl810(nowintheLeuchtenbiirgCol!ection, 
No.  245),  repreaentintt  Stella  drawing-  a  picture 
of  the  Virgin  and  Child  "  on  his  prison  wall."  A 
note  to  tbe  same  page  informs  the  reader  that 
Stella  on  his  arrival  at  Rome  was  arrested,  but 
soon  after  found  iimocent  and  liberated.  Also, 
that  "so  late  as  tbe  end  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury this  sketch  of  the  Madonna  (on  the  prison 
wall)  was  shown  to  travellers  in  Rome."  The 
note,  however,  gives  no  further  information.  Who 
was  this  Stella  P  When  did  be  live,  and  of 
what  crime  or  misdemeanour  was  he,  as  it  ap- 
pears, unjustly  accused  ? 

NOELL  Raceclifpb. 

[Jacques  Stella  was  bom  at  Lyon  in  1596,  beiuR  tbe 
son  of  Frmtois  SteDa,  a  painter,  who  died  when  his  son 
was  Doty  nine  years  old.  Having  gone  into  Italy  at  the 
age  of  twenty,  the  Grand-Dake  Coemo  II.  engii^ed 
Jacques  to  carry  out  the  deeorations  designed  fnr  the 
celebration  of  tbe  marriage  of  bis  son  Ferdinand  II.  At 
expiration  of  seveo  j-eari  Stella 


-acted  a  friendsliip  w: 
milator,    Hav' 


he  became 
:reaehery  or  ml^under-     . 
*  Rome,  Stella  amused  1 1  (:> 


himself  by  tracing  on  the  wall,  in  charcoal,  the  ilgt 
the  Virgin  with  tbe  infant  Jeans  in  her  arms.  Car 
Barberini,  hearing  of   the  exceUenee  of 


In-Mad  lamo  waa 


78 


NOTES  AND  QTTERTES. 


[*oS.TlI.  J4».W,7l. 


•aapmded  over  it.  Retnnline  in  16S4  by  Venice  ud 
Miu.Ti  [D  Frucr,  with  the  inUntioo  of  viutine  Spain, 

the  direction  of  Ibe  Aosdemv  tt  Milan  wm  offeretl  to  Dim, 
bat  declined.  Hie  jouniev,'  however,  to  Spain  was  frae- 
trated  bj-  Cardinel  Richelieu,  who  secured  him  the  tills 
of  painter  U  the  King,  with  apartments  in  the  Louvre 
■nd  a  penaion  of  1.000  francs  a-ye»r.  In  1644  the  Order 
of  SL  Michael  and  the  rank  of  principal  pwnterto  the 
king  were  conferred  on  Stella,  and  in  1657  be  died  at  Paris, 
■ome  of  the  cliurches.ot  which  poesen  painlinga  b; 

Trench's  HuLSKis  LKcnniEs,  1840,— Toirhut 
TTOida  does  the  Archbiabop  iillude  at  p.  43  of  these 
lectures  when  he  refers  to  "  the  p-eat  ijoet  of  our 
modem  wotI4  "  u  maldng  "  the  glfid  voices  of  the 
Sssteni  hjmn  of  potency  sufficient  to  ■wieat  the 
poiaoa-cup  irom  the  buid  of  one  who  h»d  already 
wised  it  to  his  lipa  ?  "  P.  J.  F.  GAMxiLLOif. 


Ztqilietf. 

AMERICAN  "NATIONAL  SOSG." 

(4*  S.  rii.  11.) 

I  hare  great  pleaeure  in  fnmiahiiig  a  copy  of 

this  soDg,  which  I  bo  much  admired  on  its  first 

•ppearance  in  our  pitpera  in  1813  forita  fine  poet^ 

and  spirited  composition,  that  I  have  preserved  it 

ever  since.  '  F,  C.  H. 


"  Gjldmdia. 


wide. 


Cotnmbia  e  bills  are  higo ; 
And  radely  planted  aide  bj  al 

Her  forerts  meet  the  eye. 
But  narrow  mnat  those  shores  be  made. 

And  low  Colunihia's  hills. 
And  low  her  aodent  forests  laid, 

Ere  Freedom  leaves  her  Gelds : 
For  'tis  the  land  where,  mde  and  wild. 
She  played  her  gambols  wben  a  child. 
"  And  deep  and  wide  her  streams  that  flow 

Impelnous  to  the  tide ; 
And  lliich  and  green  the  lanrels  grow 

tta  averr  river's  side. 
But  ahoula  a  transatlantic  boat 

Poltnle  her  waters  fair. 
We'll  meet  Ihecn  on  the  rocky  eoast. 

And  gather  laurels  there ; 
For  oh  !  Colnmbia's  sons  are  brave, 
And  free  as  ocean'a  wildest  wave, 
"  The  gales  that  wave  her  mountain  pine 


trid  must  those  breezes  blow. 

That  SOD  must  set  in  gore. 
Ere  footsteps  of  a  foreign  foa . 

Imprint  Columbia's  shore : 
Fur  oh  1  lier  sons  an  brave  and  free ; 
Tbelr  broaata  beat  high  with  Uberty. 
"  For  arming  boldeat  enlrasder. 

We've  minea  of  sterling  worth. 
For  sword  and  bnckler,  spnr  and  (pear, 

Embowelled  in  the  earth. 


For  ere  Colambia'a  bod)  resigQ 

The  boon  their  fathers  won, 

Ihe  polished  ore  ttoia  evei;  mine 

For  brinit'a  the  blade  and  sharp  the  ipeir 
Which  Freedom'a  sons  to  battle  bear. 
"  Let  Britain  boast  of  deeds  she's  done. 

Display  her  trophies  bright. 
And  count  her  laurels  bravely  woa 

In  well-conlasled  fight ; 
CatamUa  can  a  ban  array, 

Will  wrest  the  laurel  wreath ; 
With  truer  eve  and  steadier  hand. 

Will  strike'  the  blow  of  death. 
For  whether  on  the  land  or  eei, 
Columbia's  fight  is  victory  I 
"  Let  France  In  blood  through  Europe  wade. 

And  la  her  frantJo  mood, 
In  civil  discord  draw  the  blade. 

And  spill  her  children's  blood. 
Ton  dear  the  skill  in  arms  is  bought. 

Where  kindred  life-blood  flows, 
Columbia's  aoaa  are  only  taught 

To  triumph  o'er  their  foes; 
And  than  to  comfort,  soothe  and  save^ 
The  feelings  of  the  conquered  brave. 
*>  Then  let  Columbia's  eagle  a 


AudU 


high; 


The  thunder  from  hi  .       , 

And  lightning  from  her  eye. 

And  wben  she  sees  from  realms  abov^ 
'Ilie  slorm  of  war  is  spent; 

Descending,  like  tbe  welcome  dove. 
The  olive  branch  present; 

And  then  will  Beauty's  hand  divine 

The  never-tkding  wreath  entwine ! " 


ORDRE  IMPERIAL  ASIATIQUE  DB  MOBALE 

UNIVERSELLE. 

(4"*  S.  V.  360,  472,  512;  vi.  165.) 

Dr.  Robert  Bisbbt,  in  his  reply  to  queries  by 
Lzs  rekting  to  the  above  order,  referred  him  to 
M.  Gourdon  de  QenouiUac's  IHctiojaiaire  hidorique 
del  Ordret  de  Otevalerie  (Peris,  1860)  for  an  ac- 
count of  its  creation  ;  and  Ma.  Woodwabd  sub- 
sequently conferred  an  obligation  on  many  of 
your  readers  by  giving  (vi.  16fi)  an  extract  fiom 
that  work  to  the  eSect  that  the  Oidre  Imperial 
Asiatique  de  Morale  Universelle  owed  ita  origin, 
A.n.  1636,  to  the  Sultana  Alins  d'Eldir  during  h«r 
residence  in  France. 

Ms.  Woodward  perdnently  asked  certain  ques- 
tions based  on  tbe  imperfect  information  afforded 
by  M.  Oourdon  de  Oenouillac,  but  they  have  evi- 
dently escaped  the  notice  of  Db,  Biqsbt,  who,  as 
e  constant  reader  and  correspondent  of  "  N,  &  Q." 
(vide  V.  61S  and  615),  and  as  the  "Grand  Haitre 
Conservstour  "  of  the  order  (v.  472),  would  in- 
dubitably, bad  he  observed  Mb.  Woodwakd's 
queries,  liave  readily  afforded  eihaustive  replies. 
And  that  a  full  explnoation  of  certain  difficultiea 
is  absolutely  needed,  I  venture  most  strongly  to 


A»S.YU.Jix.i8,'7L'] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


79 


ftTcr,  nnM,  owing  to  tbe  retieencs  of  the  Knights 
of  the  "Imperial  Order"  which  she  founded, 
maoT  hud  tlungs  have  been  said  of  late  TegardlDg 
an  illustrious  lady  whose  conduct  has  been  criti- 
eiaed,  whose  antecedents  have  been  animodTetted 
npon,  and  whose  exalted  tank  has  been  pniuounced 
bj  more  than  one  of  the  would-be  coffttotcenH  to 
be  as  mythical  as  the  honours  which  she  is  mid 
to  bftTe  conferred.  All  this  is  most  lamentable, 
but  ie  it  not  entirely  to  be  attributed  to  the  cul- 
pable silence  of  those  bound  by  every  law  of  chi* 
Tslry  to  defend  herP  Now  that  public  attentdon 
has  been  aroused,  contemptuous  silence  will  not 
tatisfy  it.  The  fate  of  tbe  "  Imperial  Order,"  the 
honours  of  its  diatinguisbed  members,  are  inex- 
tricably interwoven  with  the  rank,  power,  and 
dignity  of  its  founder,  and  must  stand  or  fall  with 
them ;  and  although  Dr.  Biqsby,  in  his  restricted 
reply  to  Lex,  undoubtedly  did  say  that  "  for  any 
further  communicatioD  Lbx  might  look  to  others, 
aa  he  cerhunly  should  not  condescend  to  enlighten 
Ids  darkness,  yet  since  the  "Grand  Maitce  Con- 
•ervateur"  of  an  order  must  with  justice  be  uni- 
Tenally  regarded  as  tbe  mouthpiece  and  champion 
of  the  confraternity,  and  nnce  the  world's  ver- 
dict cannot  fail  to  be  gravely  influenced  by  any 
further  reticence  on  his  part,  I  do  trust  that  Dr. 
BiesBT  will  reconsider  his  somewhat  too  hasty 

. ._    — , lis  less  t. 

least,  who,  from  having  travelled  much  in  the  far 
£ast,  as  welt  as  from  other  reasoue,  takes  a  deep 
bterest  in  I'Ordre  Imperial  Asiatique  de  Morale 
Univenelle.  Injustice,  therefore,  to  the  deceased 
Sultana,  and  with  appropriate  respect  for  the 
Sovereign  Order  which  she  created,  I  repeat  one 
of  Mr.  Woodwabd's  unanswered  queries,  and  add 
certain  others  of  mine  own. 

I  ask,  firstly,  in  what  pert  of  Asia  is  situated 
the  Sultanate  of  Eldir?  Both  of  my  old-fsehioned 
guetleers  fail  to  help  me,  and  I  am  not  satisfied 
with  tbe  somewhat  vague  information  given  to 
me  recently  by  a  distinguished  Fellow  of  the 
Geographical  Society,  to  whom,  seizing  him  by  the 
hnttoQ  at  our  club,  I  propounded  the  inquiry. 
I  should  have  thought,  wuen  I  accosted  him, 
that  he  was  about  tbe  most  idle  man  in  town, 
but  he  became  suddenly  animated  on  hearing 
my  questiun,  and  stating  somewhat  confusedly 
that  Eldir,  as  everyone  knew,  formed  part  of  the 
andent  dominions  of  Frester  John,  he  pleaded  an 
important  engagement  in  the  City,  and  hurriedly 
took  bis  departure.  But  I  require  something 
more  definite  than  this — the  latitude  and  longi- 
tode,  for  instance.  Secondly,  I  wish  to  be  made 
acquainted  with  certain  passages  in  the  history  of 
"U  Sultane  Mogols  AUna  d'Eldir."  Was  she 
bom  in  the  purple  P  and  if  so,  from  what  royal  race 
did  she  derive  her  august  origin  ?  Was  she  in  ber 
ownrigbt  eoTereisiiof  an  AnaticreatmPor,  aaone  t 


of  the  four  wives  dear  to  Mahomedan  orthodoxy, 
did  she  reign  supreme  over  only  five-and-twenty 
per  cent  of  the  heart  of  the  Sultan  of  Eldir  ? 

In  the  former  event,  was  it  the  disaff'ection  and 
rebellion  of  her  Moghul  subjects  which  drove  her 
into  unmerited  exile  and  to  a  lifelong  banishment 
in  a  foreign  land  ?  or,  in  the  latter  case,  did  she 
incur  the  displeasure  of  her  exalted  hut  capricious 
master,  and  escape  the  fatal  sack,  tbe  deadly 
bowstring,  or  even  the  minor  evil  of  the  absdsuon 
of  ber  nose  andears,  by  eluding  the  vigilance  of  the 
euDuchawho  guarded  tbe  hated  harem  P  But  a 
third  and  more  commonplace  cause  occurs  to  me 
for  the  expatriation  of  the  Sultana ;  death  may 
have  dared  to  strike  low  the  king  of  kings,  tbe 
monarch  of  Eldir,  and  Alina  ma^  have  collapsed 
into  a  dowager  I  Uuder  such  circumstances  bei 
flight  would  not  have  been  interfered  vrith,  for 
the  sultan  who  filled  the  musnud  of  ber  deceased 
lord  would  have  cared  too  much  for  the  comfort 
of  his  own  wives,  commisuoned  and  non-com- 
missioned, to  have  (^ven  himself  much  concern 
about  the  ancient  encumbmnces  of  the  zeuanah 
who  mourned  tbe  loss  of  bis  predecessor;  and 
Alina,  left  to  her  own  devices,  would  have  made 
ber  way  to  France,  and  have  found  in  its  gay 
caiatftl  consolation  in  her  widowhood. 

Thirdlv  and  lastly,  I  seek  to  know  bow,  under 
either  ot  the  above  supposirioos,  the  Mogbul  ex- 
Suitana  Alina,  during  her  impoeed  or  voluntary 
exile,  could  legitimately  have  created  in  France  a 
Christian  Order  of  Chivabry,  or,  in  short,  have 
exercised  any  "  imperial "  powers  whatsoever. 

Dr.  Biobby  will  not  consider  any  apology  to 
be  due  from  me  for  thus  spedally  and  urgently 
calling  upon  him  by  name  to  answer  the  above 

{[ueries,  for  in  a  work  which  be  has  recentiy  pub- 
isbed  he  has  himself  announced  tbe  high  position 
which  he  holds  in  the  Order  under  notice ;  and 
there  can  therefore  be  no  discourtesy  or  impro- 

C'  ity  in  my  publicly  addressing  a  public  omce- 
rer  on  a  question  in  which  tbe  public  is 
evidentiy  interested.  Nay,  rather  am  I  con- 
strained to  believe  that  Db.  Biosbt  will  esteem 
it  both  a  duty  and  a  pleasure  to  guard  the  honour 
of  the  order  of  which  he  is  the  "  Conserva- 
teur,"  and  to  fin^cate  the  fhme  of  its  illustrious 
founder. 

But,  apart  from  these  supreme  conudentiona, 
it  is  certain  that  one  who  has  so  recently  subscribed 
himself  in  your  pages  {v.  61C)  "  Enigbt  of  St 
Jemes  of  the  Sword,  and  of  other  Order^"  will 
be  only  too  eager  manfully  to  do  his  devoir  as  a 
gallant  chevalier,  and  to  shed  the  last  drop  of  his 
ink  in  tbe  service  of  Alina  d'Eldir. 


0  by  Google 


NOTES  AND  QUBEIES; 


[V*S.VU.3ituia,  7L 


wbokg  dates  in  certain  biographies. 
(4"'S.tL410;  to.  48.) 

A  simplfl  explanntioa  will  account  for  whst 
would  oui€7mM  aeem  unjiutifiable  oArelesaneM 
on  my  part  in  oonnection  with  in;  remarks  about 
the  date  of  the  Ettriclf  Sbepherd's  birth,  and 
Messrs.  Blackie's  late  edition  of  his  work.  At 
tiie  baginninc  and  end  of  the  second  Toluma  of 
that  edition,  Messrs.  Blackie  present  narratives  of 
the  Shepherd's  life — a  memoir,  and  an  autobio- 
graphy. The  work  was  iaaued  in  monthly  parts ; 
I  laid  my  hands  on  that  part  which  contained  the 
antobiograpby,  and  in  which,  without  Dota  or 
comment,  these  words  occur  :— 

"  I  am  the  aaeond  of  four  Bans  b;  the  siroe  father  aad 
mothar — nauMlj,  Eob«rt  Hoek  and  Margaret  Laidlaw, 
and  vrat  bom  od  tbeSBth  of  Janouy,  IiiS." 

As  this  waa  likely,  in  the  late  as  in  the  for- 
mer edition  of  Measra.  Blackie's  issue  of  the 
poet'a  wrilings,  to  be  allowed  to  stand  aa  part 
of  the  memoir,  did  I  err  far  in  concluding  that 
this  was  the  oiil;r  statement  intended  to  be  put 
forth  by  the  tnographer  f  Where  there  are 
two  memoirs,  tme  at  each  end  of  a  book,  most 
readers  would,  like  myself,  accept  the  facts  ^ven 
in  the  Jir^  he  fell  upon,  and  would  not  think 
of  waiunff  for  any  further  relation  in  an  additional 
biography  which  might  or  might  not  be  forth- 
coming. 

Since  I  am  writing  about  the  Shepherd,  I  may 
remaik  that  Messrs.  Blackie  have  retained  is 
their  late  edition  of  his  poems  three  songs  which 
I  showed  in  the  first  edition  of  my  ^oottuh  Min- 
strel (1866)  were  composed  by  others. '  iThese 
are — "  Is  your  war-pipe  asleep^  and  for  ever, 
UcCrimman  P  "  "0  saw  ye  this  sweet  bonnie 
lassie  o'  mine  P  "  and  "  Bise,  rise.  Lowland  and 
Highlandman.' 


Ettrick  hard  tbe  three  song-writers  seem  to  hare 
sent  compositions  for  approval,  and  their  songs 
being  found  among  his  papers  at  his  death,  were 
included  among  his  posthumous  writings.  The 
mistake  was  Tenial,  no  doubt,  but  when  corrected 
it  ought  not  to  have  been  repeated.  Otberwiae 
Messrs.  Blackie's  edition  of  the  Shepherd's  works 
is  piepaied  creditably. 

Charlbs  Booebb,  LLJ). 
Soovdoim  Tills,  Leirlsbam,  S.1S. 


FORTBAFT  AND  SKDLLS  OF  GAEOLAN. 

(4*  S.  Ti.  324,  392,  507,  548.) 

I  am  quite  unable  to  discover  the  "  proofs  "  or 

"  undeceptioDS  "  which  Mb.  Pihkbrton  professes 

to  give  in  his  latest  communication  nommally  on 


and  unjust  to  Ireland,  which  is  not  at  all  un- 
common among  the  nativea  or  ib.e  pretended 
nativra  of  (hat  great  and  just  and  now  universally 
respected  country,  from  which  Ma  favours  are  at 
present  dated,  and   "  uadeceptions "  which  all 


subject  and  eschew  petaonalitiee,  but  be  a  littla 
consistent  with  himself,  even  suppose  in  expressing 
rash  or  erroneous  judgment. 

However,  aa  Mr.  Phtkertoit  appears  to  put  in 
an  argumentum  ad  mierrioordiam  m  stating  he  is 
"  away  from  the  bulk  of  bis  books  at  present,  and 
cannot  speak  so  positively  a*  he  could  wish,"  and 
that  on  the  veiT  subjaot  at  issue,  I  suppose  I 
must  not  be  too  nard  on  him,  though  the  question 
naturaUy  augceste  itself,  why  then  has  he  written 
at  all P 

To  assert  as  he  does  that  "  the  skulls  of  Irish- 
men never  produced  a  saleable  article  "  until  the 
bones  of  die  dead  began  to  be  exported  to  bonnie 
Scotland,  and  to  the  other  great  and  "  universally 
respected"  countrv,  may  be  very  tasteful  or  very 
witty,  or  at  least  facetious ;  but  it  certainly  is  not 
tme,  or  even  to  the  purpose.  For  instance,  the 
heads  of  Edmund  Burke  and  of  his  friend  Gold- 
smith, of  Swift,  of  one  Henir  Giattan,  of  a  person 
called  Tom  Moore,  of  Berkley,  of  Boyle,  and  of 
some  few  other  Irishmen,  have  imdouhtedly 
"  produced  saleable  artidee  "  in  abundance,  thougk 
the  possessors  of  them  were  not  quite  so  com- 
mercially minded  as  to  sell  their  country  into  the 
bargaio,  which  we  have  no  doubt  some  of  the 
rmtvun  bouiiquiire  would  not  scruple  doing  as  part 
of  their  trade. 

Again,  Mr.  Pinkxbton's  innocence — the  word 
ignorance  would  not  he  polite^of  Irish  history, 
which  has  led  him  to  make  the  discarded  and  dis- 
credited statement  that  there  were  few,  if  any, 
national  harps  in  Ireland  in  the  seventeeuth  cen- 
tury!— a  blunder  of  his  which  he  does  not  pre- 
sume to  repeat — leads  him  now  to  assert  that 
"  tbe  Irish  after  battle  never  buried  their  dead," 
an  assertion  which  will  cause  some  amusement 
no  doubt  among  the  weU-informed  readers  of 
"  N.  &  Q.,"  and  make  them  exclaim  with  Shake- 

"  Han,  proDd  miD  .  .  .  ■ 
Hoat  Ignorant  of  what  ha  most  aKamaa." 

This  asserUon  of  his  is  a  libel  on  Ireland  and 
the  Irish.  Dean  Story,  it  is  true  (A  CoHtimiaiion 
of  fht  Hiitory  of  the  Wan  of  Ireland,  p.  147), 
gives  a  sad  picture  of  the  field  of  Aughiim  after 
the  battle  in  July,  1691,  when— 


«*8.TU.  Jan.!8,TL] 


NOTES  AJfD  QUERIES. 


81 


"  night  and  ittj "  hy  the  boc^  of  his 


"  And  tbo'  he  ftd  upon  other  Corps  with  the  leat  of 
Um  Dob*,  jet  be  would  not  allow  tbem  or  Wlf  thing  elM 
to  uiu£  tut  of  his  Master." 

(One  of  CoL  Fouli's  soldiera  shot  the  faithfol 
animal.)  But  we  hnre  no  proof  that  it 
the  cuttom  of  the  Iiiah  to  burj  their  dead  after 
battle,  from  this  instance,  or  from  othen  in  addi- 
tioD.  At  p.  229  of  the  same  histoid,  Dealt  Storj 
infonns  u  that,  on  September  26, 1691,  after  the 
oantolatioD  of  limenck,  several  of  die  principal 
officen  and  ot^en  of  the  Irish  armj'  came  from 
their  Horse  Camp : — 

"And  dlniog  with  the  ganeial,  the;  went  afterwards 
into  town  in  a  boat  roved  b^  Freach  aumsn  (there 
being  Uwn  three  venels  diami  np  within  the  Key,  Mid 
dse  of  them  uink  a-cross  it,  to  pnTent  onr  coming  ap 
the  rlrer  in  the  Night  by  vraj'  of  Snrpriae ;  as  they  rid 
In-  the  End  of  the  Bridg  towards  the  Boat,  a  parly  of 
their  own  Men  were  turyinj,  dit  dead  kUltd  '-  "  -  ' — ' 
attin ;  tktif  tiopped  and  eHonindfor  Mur 
titt^f  tiUrt  fotad  daad ;  ana  the  Ct*9aUon 
fill  mit  d^attaa  dock." 

We  are  asiured  on  tiie  same  authoritj  that 
Lieutenant  Storj,  brother  of  the  writer,  who  was 
killed  in  the  war,  *'  was  buried  irith  mititarj 
honors  "  bj  the  Irish  ;  and  there  can  be  no  doubt 
whatever  that  when  the  churchyards  were  filled 
witi)  the  dead,  places  contiinious  to  tbem  were 
ajjpnipriated  to  purposes  of  interment  bv  the 
Inah — a  fact  very  recently  more  particulariy  de- 
monstrated near  the  cemetery  of  St  John's,  in 
the  city  of  Limerick,  where,  some  feet  beneath 
tbe  aurface  of  the  street  which  hod  been  opened 
1^  layen  of  human  bones  became  exposed  to 
new — the  bonea  of  those  who  were  buned  after 
the  nege,  whilst  the  stone  tablet  on  the  wall  of 
the  churchyard  io  qaeation  states  that  the  wall 
itaelf  was  rebuilt  after  the  slaughter  of  that  siege. 
It  may  be  mentioned,  too,  that  in  the  msmorable 
battle  which  took  place  near  Buttevant,  in  the 
coun^  of  Cork,  in  the  days  of  Maoalliater,  the 
dead  were  removed  to  the  churehyard  of  that 
town,  where  some  of  their  bones  may  yet  be  seen 
tfaroaeh  a  rault  wall,  in  the  interior  of  what  was 
once  ue  chapel. 

Here  then  we  have  not  only  the  irish  dead 
bmied  after  battle,  hat  buried  in  consecrated 
gmnmd.  Can  Mb.  Fihkerion  say  tfae  same  of 
KiaTea  of  English  soldiers  who  have  been  elain  in 

I  raally  do  not  sea  tfae  appropriatenesa  of  the 
new  isBoe  raised  in  Hb.  PmsERioir's  letter  touch- 
ing "moss  grown  on  the  human  skull,"  except  it  is 
aoather  argmttmtmin  ad  mittricordiam  to  aceonnt 
tea:  the  impeifectioDS  of  his  defence,  or  that  in 
Wiittog  thus  he  eapposea  he  has  done  the  correct 
Ung  in  acting  on  the  principle  mentioned  at 
p.  fiU  of  the  same  issue  of  "  N.  &  Q.,"  vib  that 
'^Hm  philoMpfaeT  shonM    end  with  medicine." 


Neither  can. I  see  why  the  Bev.  Br.  Tisdale  could 
not  present  a  {lortiait  of  Caroian  in  court  drees  to 
the  Royal  Irisli  Academy  because  there  was 
soother  Ur.  Tisdale  in  the  time  of  Deas  Swift  I 
Still  less  can  I  discover  any  establkhmwt  of 
Ub.  FmxKroN's  claim  to  be  esteemed  a  judge 
of  the  merits  of  Carolan'a  rich  poetry  in  the  state- 
ment made  by  him  Ihathe  knows  the  bard's  poems 
"  only  from  trendalions,"  which  he  naively  adds, 
"  I  say  is  not  knowine  tJiem  at  aU."  Well,  I  say 
BO  too;  and  I  woold  aak  him  to  consult  Haxdi- 
man's  Irith  Miiutrelti/,  with  which  he  profeHsee 
to  be  acquainted,  more  closely  and  patiently,  and 
inquire  why  does  he  attempt  not  only  to  criticise, 
but  to  decry  Oarolan'e  songs  P  And  why  will  he 
be  so  unwise  as  to  rail  at  his  music,  which  aJl  the 
rest  of  die  world  admiree  ? 
.  I  have  now  before  me — 

"  A  Favorite  Collection  ofthemneh  admired  Old  Irish 
Tunei,  the  OriKinal  and  GeDoine  Compoaitlons  of  Caroian 
the  altbraUd  Irish  Bard,  aeC  for  the  Harpsichord,  Piano 
Forte,  Violin,  and  German  Ftute." 
They  were  "published  by  Hime,  34,  CoUege 
Qreen,  Dublin,  about  the  close  of  the  leat  cen- 
tury. These  airs  awake  an  echo  wherever  they 
are  heard  in  Ireland,  even  at  this  moment ;  and 
nothing  that  Mb.  Pihebbton  can  say  to  the  con- 
traiy  is  calculated  to  deprive  then  of  a  high 
order  of  merit  They  are  expresmve,  national, 
full  of  feeling,  force,  soul,  and  energy. 

As  a  lener  laebe  of  Mb.  PmxEBiOH'a,  I  may 
mention  that  be  mistakes  the  ciroumetances  and 
facte  connected  with  the  anecdote  which  he  quotes 
about  Caroian  and  O'Flynn.  Supposing  the  stato- 
mente  reapecting  the  principal  points  at  issue  to 
be  correct,  what  does  Mb.  PzHXEKiON'sargument 
if  I  can  so  demgnato  it,  amount  to,  after  altr 
Just  this — 

1.  That  he  has  not  as  yet  been  able  to  identify 
Wat^  Cox's  likeness  of  Caroian  with  that  pub- 
lished by  Hardiman. 

2.  That  a  friend  of  Mb.  Fibkebton's  at  the 
British  Museum  states  that  one  portrait  sent  by 
Mb.  Fikkbbtok  is  not  like  Hardiman's,  which 
conveys  the  likeness  of  a  young  man,  while  that 
of  Watty  Cox  is  of  an  old  man  I 

8.  That  Mb.  FmKERToii  thinks  that  Caroian 
is,  in  Ireland,  a  greatly  overrated  man.  Ue 
(Catolan),  however,  has  left  more  and  better 
mufflc  than  any  Enalish  composer;  and  I  hope  to 
eee  the  day  when  that  mumc  wUl  be  republished 
in  a  style  worthy  of  it  and  of  the  composer'a 
genius. 

Mb.  PurxBBTOir  has  fUledto  prove  that  foreign 
artists  did  not  viut  Ireland  lin  the  ei^^teeoth 
century.     I  have  shown  that  they  did. 

Mb,  PnreBBTOK  has  "  some  words  to  say  to  I  ,, 
Mb.  Lbbihas  on  his  knowledge  of  Iriih  history."  '  ^ 
a,  sul^eot  OB  which  be  thii^  he  has  alreaay 
damoMttated  Mb.  Pihkuxob's  innoeeoce  quite 


82 


NOTES  AND  QUERIE& 


[4<»B.VII.  Jui.18,'71. 


Bufficientlj  to  preclude  the  necemty  of  prolonoinK 
a  controversj  which  he  has  wantonly  provoted, 
and  in  whicb  he  has  manifested  an  abaurd  con- 
tempt for  Ireland  and  thelriah.  Ab  to  hia  random 
BSgertions,  unsupported  by  the  slightest  proof,  on 
the  sahject  at  issue,  ■viz.  Carolan'a  skull,  and  the 
other  iaauea  he  baa  nused  in  hia  discursiTe  flights 
of  fancy,  on  Carolan's  poetry,  music,  foreign  artiats 
in  Ireland  in  the  eighteenth  century,  the  burial  of 
the  dead  by  the  Irish  after  battle,  moss  on  skulls, 
&c  &c,theydonotmakeitclear  that  he  is  gifted 
with  the  true  scholar's  raodeety,  or  even  with  the 
cooler  jndgmeut  of  the  Englishman. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Carolan  was  well 
received  in  the  mansions  and  at  the  tables  of  the 
principal  nobility  and  gentry  of  Ireland.  He 
dedicated  the  chief  part  of  his  compos!  tiona  to  the 
O'Connors,  the  MacDermots,  the  Loftua  Joneees 
("Bumper  Squire  Jones"),  the  Burkes,  Lords 
of  Mayor  ("Tiema  Mayo"),  the  Kellys,  the 
Cruises,  the  Loutbs,  the  Soscommons,  the  Staf- 
fords,  the  Feytons,  and  others  also  of  the  leading 
families  of  Connaught.  He  travelled  south,  and 
waa  equally  well  received  in  Clare,  Tipperary, 
Waterford,  and  Limerick.  Hardiman  supports 
our  conjecture  that  the  gaiidne  portrait  of  the 
celebrated  Irish  hard  was  punted  bv  Van  der 
Hagen,  who  was  employed  when  Carolan  was  in 
the  zenith  of  manhood  and  fame,  at  Lord  1^- 
Tone's  (countyWaterford),  Mr.  Christraas'a  (Whit- 
field, eame  county),  by  the  eilr  of  Waterford 
Corporation,  &c.,  and  doubtleas  elsewhere  in  this 
Gountty,  At  Doonas  House,  the  truly  picturesque 
reaidence  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Limerick  of 
the  then  Dean  Massy,  Van  der  Hagen  met  Caro- 
lan, and  it  ia  believed  that  it  wan  at  Doonas  the 
genuine  portrait  of  the  bard  waa  painted  by  the 
well-known  and  clever  Dutch  artiat  Strange  to 
say,  Mr.  Pinkertos  admits  tbia,  though  he  still 
peraiata  in  his  unaccountable  cooteutionB. 

MAimicE  LEKmAN,  M.R.I.A. 

Limgrick. 


SIR  WILLIAM  ROGER,  EST, 

(l"  8.  i.  468;  iv.  167,  222,  342,  645;  v.  97,  214, 

336;  tL  482,  562.) 

As  an  accompliahed  heraldic  acholar  I  am  sure 
tiiat,  on  reflection,  Mb.  J.  C.  Rooek  will  pardon 
ine  for  helping  to  settle  the  t^uestion  aa  to  the 
genuineness  of  "the  casts  "which  he  communi- 
cated to  Mr.  H.  Laing  for  his  "Supplemental 
Catalogue  of  Scottish  Seals,"  The  question  is 
twofold.  First,  How  did  hia  father,  the  late  Mr. 
Charles  Roger,  obtm  these  casta?  Secondly, 
Are  the  casts  what  they  purport  to  be  P  With 
reference  to  the  second  part  of  the  question,  Ms. 
J.  C-  BoBER  may  eaaily  satisfy  himself  that  Sir 
William  Ro^r  (tectmdiu)  neither  owned  nor  waa 
connected  with  Wd  in  Oalston  in  1S33,  the  date 


of  cast  No.  851  in  Mr.  Laing's  volume.  There 
never  was  such  a  knight  Aa  te  the  first  portion 
of  the  queation,  Ms.  J.  C.  Boqbb  has  shown  that 
the  heirs  of  Mr.  Thomaa  Meik,  the  alleged  pur- 
chaser of  the  Coupar  Oran^  estate,  need  not  be 
troubled  to  produce  their  title-deeds,  aince  "  the 
casts  "  turn  out  not  to  be  family  heirlooms.  To 
hia  fatherj  Mr.  J.  C.  RosER  writes,  they  were 
"  commumcated  by  the  late  Mr.  Deuchar,  aeal- 
engraver,  Edinburgh."  Mr.  Deuchar  was  an 
excellent  heraldic  scholar,  and  was  altogether 
incapable  of  perpetrating  an  heraldic  forgery.  But 
Mr.  Rooer  baa,  I  fear,  been  misinformed  aa  to 
Mr.  Deuchar  having  any  connection  vith  "  the 
caats."  In  1817  Mr.  Deuchar  published  a  work 
entitled  "British  Crests."  In  thatwork  no  Scottish 
family  of  Roger  or  Rogers  is  named  as  using  even 
a  crest.  Of  four  Engliah  families  whom  Mr.  Dea- 
char  names,  none  have  heraldic  inaignia  auch  as 
those  in  "  Uie  casts."  Some  time  after  the  pub- 
lication of  hia  "Crests,"  my  late  father,  the  Rev. 
James  Roger,  minister  of  Dunino,  Fifeahire,  re- 
quested Mr.  Deuchar  to  discover  bis  coat  of  arms 
with  a  view  to  its  being  engraved.  After  a  aearcb, 
Mr.  Deuchar  reported  that  the  Coupar  Grange 
family  had  no  crest  or  coat  of  anna.  He  oflered 
to  devise  one.  "  Make  something,"  swd  my 
father,  "  which  will  suit  the  motto  Le  JRoy  et 
rUglue."  Mr.  Deuchar  did  so,  exhibiting  as  a 
crest  a  dexter  band  holding  a  crosier.  This  am- 
mounted  a  shield  with  charges  entirely  difi*erent 
bom  those  of  "  Uie  casta."  But  might  not  Mr. 
Deuchar,  in  the  course  of  further  research,  have 
got  new  light  on  the  hiatory  of  the  Coupar  Orange 
family  P  It  is  certiun  that  he  did  not,  The  whole 
of  hia  reaearches  connected  with  the  crests  of 
Scottish  families  are  embodied  in  "  Fairbaim's 
Cpests,"awell-knownworkpubliahed  at  Edinburgh 
in  1860undeTthe  superintendence  of  Mr.Laurence 
Butters^  seal-engraver  to  the  Queen.  In  that 
work  my  father's  creat,  designed  by  Mr.  Deuchar 
forty  veara  before,  is  described  as  that  of  the 
ScotUan  house  of  Roger.  Mr.  Deuchar  died 
before  1860.  To  the  day  of  his  death  he  never 
had  any  communication  with  the  father  of  Mb. 
J.  C.  RoQRR.  Tbia  I  aaaert  positively.  The  Mary- 
well  scidpture,  it  now  appears,  was  not  found  at 
the  non-existing  Marywell,  but  "  in  a  ruined 
house  at  West  Town  of  Coupar  Grange,"  where 
a  John  Playfair  lived  in  one  century,  and  where 
a  George  Roger,  to  suit  the  letters  "  O.  R."  on 
the  drawing,  might  have  lived  in  another.  In 
Mr.  H.  Laing's  supplemental  Tolume  Mb.  J.  C. 
RooBR'a  father  is  repreaented  as  having  described 
the  seal  of  Sir  William  Roger  (teamdtu)  thus : 
"  Sir  William  Roger,  Knt,  from  an  ixutrument 
datad  1633  concerning  or  conveying  a  piece  of 
ground  witbinthe  parish  of Galston."  In  "N.&Q." 
Mb.  J.  C.  RooBB  states  that  the  narrative  of  the 
crests  waa  not  ia  hit  fathtr't  handwriting.    Uor« 


A"-  S.  Til.  Ja-t.  28,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


83 


lecently  he  finds  that  "the  casts"  were  "com- 
nninicated  by  Mr.  Deuchar." 

Mb.  J.  C.  BoQEB  charges  me  with  bSTing,  in 
1867,  claimed  descent  irotn  Sir  William  Roger 
in  B  book  nhich  I  then  published.  Most  trne ;  I 
beUeted  his  statement  contained  in  Mr.  H.  Lning's 
work  published  the  vear  preriouslj.  I  have  long 
beld  Mr.  Rookb  to  be  an  expert  heraldic  scholar, 
bis  heraldic  drawiopi  and  descriptions  bein^  ex- 
quisite. I  wonid  have  respected  bis  authority 
still,  bad  not  inTestigations  lately  made  led  me  to 
perceive  tbatin  the  present  instance  he  is  in  error. 
And  let  mj  mishap  be  a  wamisf;  to  all  genealo- 
gists, for  I  have  subjected  myself  to  be  twitted 
not  only  by  the  gentleman  whoso  authority  I  fol- 
lowed, but  by  another  ( W.  B.),  to  vhom  Me.  J. 
G.  RooEB  is  evidently  a  Htrang«r. 

Charles  Rouebs,  LLJ). 


Mr.  WiyoHAK  i 


I    nEPOBTBM    ('4''    S, 


i.  417.) — 1  find  among  some  letters  in  my  pos 

-  -■  -  -'  '"  ■■■'-■       -   '■■ apolitical 

dated  Pal 

Mall,  Feb.  8, 1810,  addressed  to  a  relative  of  my 
own  at  that  period,  connected  with  the  public 
^nea,  which  throws  lifjbt  on  the  subject  in  quea- 
tJOD,  and  a  copy  of  which  I  annex,  as  you  may 
deem  it  suitabfe  for  insertiou  in  your  columns. 
I  am  inclined  to  think  that,  after  this  letter  had 
been  written,  the  interdict  was  removed,  and  Mr, 
Windham's  speeches  were  duly  reported  : — 

"FaU  Halt,  Feb.  8tb,  1810. 
"Sir, 
**  Upon  reenning  again  to  your  letter,  I  find  in  pirC 
of  it  soma  eqaivocal  expreatioaa  which  lead  me  to  sgp- 
prcM  the  annrer  which  I  was  othenriie  diepowd  to  give 
to  it,  and  might  prevent  my  relying  to  It  at  all,  if  it  was 
Dot  for  the  apprcbension  that  I  migbt  be  aapposed  either 
not  to  have  rectived  it,  or  to  aoquloce  ia  the  trath  of  the 
dkargc  of  treating  contcmptuoasly  or  contamatioDjdy  the 
tsleouorcbiractera  of  men  whom  nothing  but  the  led- 
dCDis  of  worldly  sitnation  could  diatinguiih  in  any  decree 


mpiaiot  1 


hMrge,  o 


'Dofi 


iTould  fi 


a  Jnst  ™Qn 


H  it  should 


publick  body  or  descrip- 
tioa  of  men  can  be  cenanred,  without  the  censure  being 
fli(q>oa«d  to  be  ipplied  directly  to  each  individnal  of 
whom  the  ttody  was  compoaed,  or  who  wu  in  *n;  way 
coBoecIed  witb  it :  ■  position  which  would  Bound  but 
oidlv  as  nuning  on  the  part  of  those  who  are  every  day 
analgning,  in  the  coarsest  tad  most  unreserved  terms, 
every  Iwaach  of  the  legislatare. 

"  With  respect  to  priviltged  places,   I  bt^  to  assare 
yon  that  I  shall  never  apply  (thongb  I  believe  I  might) 
to  any  privilege  of  ParliameDt  to  protect  me  in  any- 
thing which  I  have  thought  it  right  to  say  there. 
"  I  am,  Sir, 

Your  obedient 
Humble  aervant, 
(Signed)  W.  WraDnAM." 

E.  Rawdon  Power. 
Tenby,  S.  Wales.  i 


Leoai  CouiroiiPi.ACEs,  temp.  James  I.  (4'"  S. 
vii.  6,)— I  bad  no  expectation  that  my  extracts 
from  Uiis  MS.  which  I  submitted  to  your  notice 
would  have  been  at  once  adopted  for  publication, 
or  1  should  have  taken  more  puns  in  their  selec- 
tion and  arrnngement,  and  I  am  sorry  that  your 
printer  did  not  receive  my  revision  of  the  proof- 
copy  before  it  went  to  press.  Will  you  now  per- 
mit me  to  supply  a  few  amendments  to  some 
errors  in  the  "acute  et  graviter  dicta  "  ? — 

P.  8,  line  28  Irom  bottom,  for  "  patrem  "  rend 
"perrsm  "  (tic  in  orig.) ;  col.  2,  line  1,  for  "  puah- 
ing  "  read  "  pusliog  ;  line  12,  for  "  nnllo  "  read 
"  nollo  "  J  line  24  irom  bottom/  for  "  feofm. "  read 
"  psona  "  ;  line  14  from  bottom,  the  s^ing  of  Et. 
Jerom  touching  speech  should  begin  "Tria  neces- 
saria";  p.  7,  line  16, 1  doubt  whether  the  jewel- 
ler's name  shouU  not  read  "  vsnlote  "  instead  of 
"vaulose";  line  30  irom  bottom,  the  blank 
should  be  filled  up  "  NorthumierAmiJ  m  the  stanr 
Chamber." 

The  anecdote  about  Mrs.  Babington,  Mrs.  Ashe, 
&c.,  is  so  illenble.  that  I  can  make  nothing  out 
of  it;  but  in  Uie  toird  line,  "ahees"  should  read 
"  thea . . ,  Who  were  these  ladies  P  and  who  was 
old  mother  Stephens  f 

I  take  this  opportunity  of  drawing  observation 
to  two  passages  which  may  lead  to  ue  identifica- 
of  tlie  reporter.  Under  bis  head  of  "  General 
Observations,"  he  remarks  that  his  father  was  one 
of  those  authorised  by  the  Lord  Chancellor  to 
make  or  pass  green  Iraoks  (whatever  that  may 
mean),  hut  not  in  the  character  of  Clerk  of  the 
Crown.  The  writer's  father  then  filled  the  post 
of  Clerk  of  the  Crown. 

One  of  the  "acute  et  graviter  dicta"  ofBacon 
was  spoken  of  the  writer  himself  in  the  case 
between  Francklyn  and  Gascoignei  he  was  there- 
fore one  of  the  counsel  in  that  cause,  in  which  he 
was  opposed  to  Bacon.  G.  A.  C. 

Haik  oRownro  aiteb  Death  (4*  S.  vi.  624; 
vii.  66.)— May  I  suggeat  that,  when  Mr.  Towns- 
HBND  Mafeb  instanced  the  case  of  Charles  I.  oi 
contrary  to  that  of  the  lady  quoted  by  Hawthorne, 
he  should  have  remembered  that  no  substance  for 
the  growth  of  the  hair  could  pos^bly  he  derived 
from  the  body  of  the  decapitated  monarch,  since 
all  the  natunU  ducts  to  the  roots  of  the  hair  were 
severed.  Assuming  that  Hawthorne's  statement 
he  correct,  where  he  says  "her  whole  substance 
seems  to  have  been  transformed,"  i. «.  into  "beau- 
riful  chesnut  hair,"  the  wonder  would  have  been 

have  discovered  any  growth  whatever  in  the 
beard  and  hair  of  Kins  Charles,  since  the  head 
alone  could  have  supplied  the  substance  for  that 
growth.  Geoboe  Wallis. 

South  KenslagtOD  Moaeum.  . 

It  is  observed  In'  Mb.  TowirsHEini  Hateb  ^  I C 
that  the  indeatiuctibui^  ot  hair  ia  ahown  by  the 


84 


NOTES  AND  QUESIES. 


[11^3.711.  JAK.  58,71. 


fcct  thst  a  portiwi  of  Hemy  Vm.'s  iNard  was 
ibund  upon  liis  chm  at  the  tirae  when  the  coffin 
at  Charles  I.  was  opened  in  1813.  I  can  adduce 
tk  much  more  remarkable  inatance,  I  aadated  in 
the  jear  183S  in  unwrapping  an  embalmed  body 
disoorered  in  front  of  where  the  high  altar  for- 
merly Stood  in  Wymondham  Abbey  in  Norfolk, 
It  was  the  body  of  a  female,  who  was  satisfac- 
torily proTeJ  to  hare  been  the  wife  of  William 
D'Albmi,  the  founder  of  the  abbey.  She  had 
died  young  and  in  childbirth.  Her  hair  had  been 
cat  o&i  and  we  found  a  profiiuon  of  it  lying  de- 
tached on  the  right  side  of  the  neck,  of  a  bright 
anbum  colour,  and  in  perfect  preaerfatioD.  I 
brought  away  a  small  lock  of  thu  hur,  which  is 
now  lying  before  me,  and  perfectly  pieeerred  after 
more  than  700  years  from  the  lime  of  the  lady's 
decease.  I  wrote  a  full  account  of  the  discoTery, 
embalming,  and  appearance  of  the  body  in  a  maga- 
zine at  the  time.  F.  C.  H. 

Air  IiTEDiTED  Elkst  bt  Olitkb  Qoldshith 
(4"*  S.  vii.  9,  66.)— Me.  CRoesi.Br'e  right«oas 
indignatiou  seems  to  have  been  moved  in  no  ordi- 
nary degree  by  the  prodnction  of  "  poor  Goldy's" 
di^.  Granting  that  it  is  twaddle,  and  that 
"  mediocrity  is  not  allowed  to  poets,  either  by  the 
gods  or  men,"  can  he  have  foigotten  that  even 
''  good  Homer  sometimBa  nods  "r  I  had  it  ori- 
ginally, many  years  ago,  &om  the  late  Captain 
Adderley  Sleipii,  K.T.S.,  in  whose  family  to  nave 
doubted  of  its  authenticity  would  indeed  have 
beenwoTsethauanyheterodoxy.  Moreover,  one  of 
tlie  primary  objects,  I  take  it,  of  "  N.  &  Q."  is  to 
drculate  these  fastaelea  with  a  view  to  their 
passing  through  the  crucible  of  its  readers'  intel- 
^ence ;  even  as  pictures,  when  broug'ht  togeUier 
from  all  sorts  of  private  collectionB  at  some  great 
national  exhibition,  have  their  merits  and  genuine- 
nees  at  once  accepted  or  rej  ected :  — 

"  Condo  et  compoao  qns  moi  depromere  ponhn." 

MooBLAiTD  Lad. 
Whale's  Rib  at  Sobbbnto  (4*  8.  viL  36.) — 
In    the  inscription,  which  was  most   correctly 
copied,  the  word  in  the  first  line  is  costaia. 

W.  H.B. 

"  CnrasBLAini's  British  Thbatre  "  (4**  8.  vi. 
403.)— I  doubted  that  the  late  George  Baniel  was 
the  editor,  because  the  text  ia  so  incorrect pam'm. 
I  speak  not  of  printers'  errata,  that  a  stroke  of  the 
pen  can  correct,  but  of  frequent  omissions  of 
whole  lines,  bad  punctuation,  &c.  Duncombe's 
Thaa^e  is  &r  more  correct  in  the  text,  though 
inferior  in  other  respects.  Bv-tbe-bye,  this  last- 
named  worii  contuns  "  Mr.  taul  P^,"  by  Dou- 
glas Jerrold.  It  is  a  better  play  than  Poole's 
comedy.  One  of  the  characters  ia  Sir  Spangle 
Kvnbow.  It  was  produced  at  the  Coboni^,  and 
amongst  the  acton  named  in  the  dramatu  per- 


totua  is  Mr.  Bnckstone.    If  the  play  is  by  Jerrold, 
why  is  it  not  in  the  published  collection  of  his 


Stbphbb  Jackbon. 


it  will  not  bear  a  mouse  afterwards. 

A  somewhat  similar  saying  prerails  in  Notti^ 
hanuhire  and  neighbouring  counties,  which  is 
perhaps  not  unworuiy  of  note  :— 

"  If  there's  ice  in  Kovember  Until  beir  a  dock, 
Therell  be  nothing  after  bat  alndgs  uid  nuck." 

The  country  people  in  Nottinghamshire  pro- 
phesy that  the  ensung  winter  will  be  a  mild  one, 
EMsing  their  prognostication  upon  the  fact  of  the 
wind  being  son^eily  on  St.  Martin's  Eve  I 

A.  E.  L.  L. 

I  have  heard  this  given  in  another  form :— "  If 
the  ice  will  bear  a  goose  before  Mardnmas  (or 
Martlemat  as  my  informant  pronounced  it)  it  inll 
not  bear  a  dude  after."  Can  the  experience  of  any 
reader  of  "  N.  ft  Q."  varify  this  saying  P 

Ltdiaks. 

WABii=WBiETHT  (4'»  S.  IT.  2B5,  326, 489.)— 
Slightly  appoute  is  one  of  the  anagrams  given  in 
Camden's  Smtaitu,  p.  219  (od.  1674)  :— 


The  Pied  Pipbr  of  Haublx  (4"  S.  iv.  364.) 
I  beg  again  to  notice  this  extraordinary  story,  to 
elicit,  if  possible,  a  satisfactory  solution  for  it  as 
a  eommemoratiini  of  some  deplorable  calamity. 
Was  it  a  great  famine  ?  Howell  (Familiar  LOten, 
1753,  p.  308),  writing  in  the  year  1643,  states  that 
the  inhabitante  "date  their  bills  and  bonds  and 
other  iostruments  in  law,  to  this  day,  &om  the 
year  of  the  going  out  of  their  children." 

Beckford,  in  Vathek,  gives  a  somewhat  umilar 
incident.  An  Indian,  renewing  his  loud  shouts  of 
laughter,  and  exhibiting  horrid  grimaces,  is  kicked 
hy  Vathek,  who  repeated  his  blow  with  such  as- 
ridttity  as  mdted  wl  who  were  present  to  follow 


udea  at  the  blowe  of  his  auailanta,  who 

ETHsed  alter  him,  wherever  lie  tamed,  with  xa  eagerness 
eyond  conception,  whilst  their  nnnibers  were  every 
moment  inereising.  Tbe  ball.  Indeed,  la  pushig  fTom 
one  apartment  to  ■nother,  drew  every  person  slier  it 
that  csjne  in  It*  waj.  The  women  of  the  hirem.  no 
sooner  did  Oaf  catch  b  glimpse  of  the  ball,  than  feeling 
tbemselvee  nnible  to  refrain,  thOT-  broke  from  tbe  elutcfacB 
of  their  ennuebs,  who,  to  stop  their  flight,  pinched  them 
«U  they  bled ;  but  in  vain ;  whilst  themselves,  though 


*S.VII.  lui.2a,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


„  tenor  >t  tbt  CMipe  of  tlieir  cbiTge,  mn 

a>  iaci|>^e  of  reabting  the  attnctioo,"  ie.  Ac. 

Ib  tiiia  account  a  flctioD  oE  Beckford's,  of  does 
]te  obtain  it  from  anj  older  "  Arabian  tale  "  P 

W.P. 

FotTHTAIire  OF  QUICSBILTXB  (2^  S.  »!.  189.) 
As  it  would  appear  that  thia  querj  hai  naver  been 
replied  to,  I  reuture  after  the  l^se  of  nme  jeus 
to  (five  the  reference  reqoired. 

The  Bath  lecturer  -was  accurate.  Gibbon,  from 
Oardonne,  aaya  that  — 

"In  ■  loftj  pavUlon  of  tho  garden"  [of  Bagdad]  "one 
of  thcM  buiiis  and  foaatniDS  ....  wai  nplcniihed,  not 
with  mter,  but  viCh  the  pnrest  qaicksilTer." — Hilt,  of 
Dtdauaid  Fail  af  Ihc  Soman  Enipirc.  vol.  vi.  p.  HI 
(Bohn's  Britisb  CUwica).  Vidt  alao  notea  to  same  paa- 
ngo  ■>  to  the  Albambia. 

Mr.  Disraeli,  in  his  "wondroua  tale  "  of  Ahoy 

(Wame'e  ed.  1866,  p.  66,  and  note  31),  mentions 

the  nme  magnificence  on  the  authority  of  Gibbon. 

8.  R.  TownaHXHD  U&tbs. 

Blchmond,  S.W. 

"  PiKacB  THE  PLOTreEQUH's  Crxdx  "  (4**  S.  i. 
244,  378,  448,  490.)— 
"  Hjt  waj  good  y-now  of  grotmd  .  grajti  tor  to  beien." 

330. 

I  am  incUned  to  take  thia  as  referring  to  a 
enrrent  proverb  of  the  time.  In  his  noble  defence 
of  poor  Richard  II.,  Thomas  Kerka,  Bishop  of 
Cariiale,  sajs,  vrith  ^1  the  epiarammatic  terseness 
of  Fuller,  "It  is  a  bad  wool  that  can  take  no 
colour."  (Collier's  Sled.  Siit.  nf  Great  BnUaa, 
f<A.  i.  p.  612,  fol.)  So  the  better  the  wool,  the 
tidier  the  d;s  it  is  capable  of  taking. 

The  date  of  the  poem  of  Pxtree  the  Floughmc 
Crted  is  given  by  Mr.  Skeat  (E.  E.  T.  8.) 
"  about  1394,  A.s.>'    The  deposidoQ  of  Ricbaid  U. 
took  place  ia  the  year  1399. 

The  speech  of  Bishop  Merks  displaya  a  courage 
and  a  manliness  eo  rare,  that  I  cannot  forbrar 
reconunanding  it  ai 

Fatehhig  Sectary, 

Noire  (4"^  S.  iv.  272,  370.) — Yonr  correspondent 
CosinTB.  quotes  from  a  poem  published  in  1798  to 
determine  the  period  at  which  the  word  noiu  was 
mcorporated  with  the  English  language.  The 
following  is  from  the  Ihmciad: — 

"  Ah  think  not,  niitma,  more  true  dqllnem  li«a 
Id  Fdlf's  cap  or  Wiadom's  grave  diiRTise, 
Like  buon  tiiat  never  link  into  the  fiood, 
On  kaifiing's  mrftoe  we  bat  Us  and  nod. 
Thine  is  the  Keaoiae  head  of  many  e  hoose 
And  mncfa  divinity  witbont  a  rotif." 

JnuAK  SsAHUur. 
"  Thi  Bitmb  End  "  (i^  S.  -n.  S40,  427,  510 ; 
TJi.  33.) — ji^td  here  I  take  to  mean  die  rtttilt;  and 
I  think  LoBD  Ltttelton  will  admit  that  the 
W\»  exceeds  in  any  sense,  good  or  bad,  the 
vpmiu,     Aristotle  saya  it  does.     In  war  deftat 


hope."    While  the  erent  is  pending  the  end  may 

be  nivi)  not  Tpni.  There  is  room,  at  all  events, 
for  hope.  JEhnnruD  Tbw,  M.A. 

Cbowoks  (4'*  S.  iv.  pamm;  t.  163,  261 ;  tL 
448.) — To  support  the  derivation  given'  of  this 
word  at  the  lut  reference,  I  beg  to  mention  that 
on  the  cabartti  and  gitingiuitet  of  little  fisbing 
TillagBB  along  the  coast  of  Brittany  "id  on  fait  ta 
ehmuHh-a"  is  a  frequent  ugn.  Faire  ta  ckaudiirt 
is  to  provide  a  cauldron  in  vrhich  is  cooked  a  meas 
of  fish  and  biscuit  with  some  savourr  condi- 
ments—  a  "  hodge-podge"  contributed  by  the 
fiahennen  themselves,  who  each  in  return  receives 
his  share  of  thepiepared  dish.  Now  Canada  was 
settled  by  the  French,  many  of  them  from  Brit- 
tany, wiUi  Jacques  Cartier,  a  Breton,  at  their  head ; 
and  it  is  precisely  horn  those  states  which  border 
upon  Canada  that  we  derive  both  the  word  dune- 
der  and  the  very  palatable  dish  it  designates. 

Folk  Lobk:  Tbsth  (4""  S.  vi.  66,  131,  340, 
560.)  — Is  it  not  likely  that  the  "ring  with  a 
tooth  in  it,"  mentioned  in  the  advertisement  quoted 
by  E.  C,  may  have  been  a  relic  of  some  saint  F 
I  have  in  my  cabinet  a  heavy  silver  ring  of  French 
workmanship,  and,  I  ahould  think,  of  the  early 
part  of  the  seventeenth  century,  in  which  is  set  a 
tooth  of  apparently  some  considerable  age.  8, 
Apollonia  was  apecially  invoked  for  the  tooth- 
acne.  See  Bishop  Jewal's  ErpotUion  upon  the 
Second  Epiit/e  to  t/te  Theualonimit,  ii.  9,  10  :— 

"  Hereof  it  eame  to  pass  that  each  saint  wu  assigned 
and  allotted  (o  his  sundry  charge  and  several  office  apart : 
S.  Blase  fbc  the  choking,  S.  Boche  for  tba  pestilence. 
Anthony  for  the  baming,  Valentlae  for  the  fillinf 


Blase  fbc  the  choking,  S.  Boche  for  tbi 
.thony  for  the  baming,  Valentlae  for  the  filling  ai 
ness,  Romans  for  madness,  Apollonia  for  the  tootnac 


PetroniUa  for  agues,  and  others  for  other  pntpoHe." 

In  the  Roman  calendar  S.  Apollonia  finda  a 
place  on  February  B,  and  in  Alban  Butler's  Lives 
of  the  Sainte,  under  that  date,  I  find  it  stated  that 
the  heathen  population  of  Alexandria,  in  the  last 
year  of  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Philip,  attacked 
the  Christians  rerident  amongst  them ;  and  that — 
"Tba  ■dmiiible  Apollonia,  whom  old  age  and  the  state 
of  virginity  rendered  equally  venerable,  was  seized  by 
them.  Their  repeated  blowi  on  hei  jaws  btat  mtaaher 
teOh." 

Frequent  (illusions  to  the  popular  belief  in  the 
virtue  of  the  invocation  of  S.  Apollonia  vrill  be 
found  in  the  uublicationa  of  the  Parker  Society. 
Compare  also  tae  "Fantassie  of  Idolatrie," printed 
in  Foxe'a  AcU  md  Moiumentt,  v.  406,  IBth  edit 
"  To  Saynt  6yth  for  my  pone  i 
Saynt  Loyo  mn  my  horw  ; 

For  «y  teth  to  Baynt  Apolyne." 

Were  the  teeth  of  B,  Apollonia  ever  worn  as 
relics  or  as  charms  against  toothache?  .  \i 

W.  Sfahkow  Simpsoh.  n 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'^S.VIl.  JAy.28,7L 


H.  R.  H.  THE  DtJKB  of  KeiTT  IK  CilfADA  IK 
1791  (4'"  S.  V.  633.)— The  following  woik  may  be 
of  aerrica  to  Mb.  Macdohald.  It  waspubliahed 
a  few  months  ago  bj  Hunter,  Rose  &  Co.,  at 
Ottawa  Knd  Toronto,  8va,  pp.  341,  and  maj  per- 
haps be  fouDd  At  Ttiibaer's,  12,  Paternoster  Row, 
Loadon : — 

••  The  Life  of  F.  M.  H.  R.  H.  Edward,  Dako  of  Kent, 
lIloBtiated  by  bii  Correspondence  with  the  De  Salibeiry 
FamilT,  never  Iirrure  published,  ex teailine  from  1791  lo 
1814.  By  Dr.  Winiara  James  Anderson,  L.R.C.S„  Edin- 
barfth,  Preiident  of  the  Qoebee  Litaraiy  and  ilistoricol 
Society." 
A  paragraph  in  the  "  Introductory  "  ia  aa  fd- 

<■  The  Duke  of  Kent  -was  an  able  and  TolnmiDaas  coi^ 
reapondent,  and  from  the  care  with  whieh  hu  letten  hare 
been  preserved  he  hae  unconBcioiulf  become  bia  own 
biographer;  but  this  biography  has  hitherto  been  eon- 
flned  to  the  limited  circles  of  tbe  families  or  friends  of  bia 
correapondenW,  and  the  few  of  his  letters  which  have 
been  pnblished  in  bia  Lifi,  by  the  Rev.  Erskine  Neale. 
bave  oaly  excited  a  desire  to  »e  more." 

I  hare  nexer  met  with  Mr.  Neale's  work.  Mr. 
Aodetmn  does  not  elsewhere  in  his  book  refer  to 
it  more  particularly  than  in  tbe  above  paragraph, 
and  it  is  not  mentioned  in  either  Watt's  B.  B. 
or  Lowndes'  BiSl.  Maraud. 

As  the  prince-duke  arrived  at  Quebec  in  Au- 
gust, 1791,  in  command  of  the  7th  Royal  Fusi- 
leers;  in  1794  as^ted  in  the  reduction  of  tbe 
Fnnch  West  Indies,  and  was  then  aptninted 
Commander  of  the  Forcea  in  Nova  Scotia  and 
New  Brunswick;  and  in  May,  1799,  Commander- 
in-Chief  of  tbe  Forcea  in  Rritish  North  America, 
in  which  command  he  continued  until  August, 
1800,— Mb.  Macdohalu  will  probably  find  "the 
full  details"  he  requires  in  the  duke's  ofRcial 
correspondence  with  the  authorities  at  the  Borse 
Guards,  where  I  presume  ij  is  still  preserved. 

TiUe-Maiie,  Canada.  Ebic. 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  ETC. 

71u  WarhM  i^Altzmder  Pope.     Nan  EdUiim,  including 

aeeeral  hundred  impubtUhtd  Lettert  and  lather  JVat  A/a- 

leriali,  collecled  in  pari  by  Vie  lale  Richt  Hon.  John 

Wilion  Croker.      (TitA  InlmdielioiK  and  Xnlet  bg  the 

Kev.  Whitwell  Elwin.   FbI.  II.  Fotlry.   H'M  Fiirlralii 

and  oilier  Jlluitmlions.    (Murray.) 

If  the  admirers  of  Pope  iiave  had  their  patience  sorely 

tried  while  waiUng  fbr  this  long-promised  edition  of  bis 

worka,  few  of  them  hut  will  confess  that  that  patience 

hu  at  length  its  reward  in  a  coUoctioa  of  the  poet's 

writings,  which  promises  to  leave    little  scops  for  the 

labours  of  fiitare  commentatoni  or  fature  editora.    Tbia 

new  volome  contains  the  ■■  Essay  on  Criticism  "  followed 

by  "  Warborton's  Commantair  and  Notes,"  "  The  Rape 

of  the  Lock  -  followed  by  the  "  First  EdilioQ  "  of  it ; '  ~ 

Eleityto  tbeUemoryofanDnfortanateLady;"  "Eloisa 

to  Abelard ; "  the  "  Essay  on  Han ;"  and  "  The  Univenal 

Prayer,"  the  two  latter  being  accompanied  by  Warbartan'a 

Commentary  and  Notes,  While,  in  the  iltustntlon  of  each 

of  Ibesa  poema  Mr,  Elwla  has  availed  himself  freely  and 


Jodldonaly  of  the  laboors  of  preceding  edilon,  he  has, 
with  great  advantage  to  the  stadeots  of  Pope,  brought 
critical  powers  to  bear  asmnch  upon  their  judg- 
s  upon  the  Poet's  wrilioga;  sotbat  his  comments 

portion  t " 
which  « 

late  Mr.  Croker  bestowed  in  clearing  up  and  illus 
passages  which  change  of  times  and  manners  have  ren- 
dered obscure,  and  which  conld  only  be  explained  by 
thoroDgbly  finiiliar  with  the  literature  of  the  time. 
Ally  of  nur  readers  who  remember  how  much  has  been 

Lady."  who  was 
greatly  amused  n 
poem,  in  which,  following  up  a  bint  tint  thrown  oat  we 
believe  by  Mr.  Dilke,  he  shows  she  was  altogether  an 
Imaginary  ptrsonagni  and  thei,-will  be  as  greatly  pleased 
with  the  sound  and  vigorous  criticism  in  which  be  has 
exposed  the  many  fulw  prindplei  enanciated  in  It  by 
Pope. 

Sritcl  UUen  nf  Pliny  the  Yoimger.  Latin  Text,  rilh 
Englith  Xotei.  Edited  hp  A.  J.  Chorch,  M.A.  of  Un- 
cola  Collie,  Oxford,  and  Head  Master  of  the  Royal 
Grammar  School  of  EingJameaUUenlev-on-ThauifS, 
and  W.  J.  Brodribb.  M.A.,  laU  Fellow  of  St.  Jobn'a 
College,  Cambridge.  (Longmans.) 
This  is  a  selection,  amnnnting  to  abont  two-fifths,  of 
the  Epistles  of  Fliny  the  Younger,  and  arrangcil  in  the 
present  form  with  a  view  to  making  them  more  accee- 
">1e  to  classical  stndenCs.  The  comparative  oblivion 
lo  which  these  letters  bave  fallen  is  the  more  strange, 
uMdering  that  sometimes  Pliny  supplies  missins  links 
the  history  of  his  friend  Tacitus.    SWuld  tt 


noved,r 


this  volume,  who,  in  order  t 
book  for  the  npper  forms  of  schools,  famiah  each  letter 
with  an  analyais,  and  point  out  such  words  and  phrases 
aa  do  not  exactly  belong  to  the  Angnstan  a!i:e.  Copious 
notes  are  likewise  given  at  the  end  of  tbe  volume. 

Books  BEcatvuD.— Vn(i«.  n/  the  Jeai  bg  the  Qauie 
Writert  of  Antiquity,  being  a  Cnilectim  of  Faeti  and 
Qpiaiom  from  the  fVorki  of  Ancient  Heathen  Anthort 


1.  oOn,  iv  John  Gill.  (Longmans.)  The 
notices  reier  to  the  £:codus  from  Egypt;  the  Origi 
Rites,  Customs,  and  Peculiarilira  oFtheJewsi  and  Notices, 


Geographical  and  MUitsry,  extracted  from  about  fifty 
various  authors.— rA*  Cieil  Senim  Hillary  nfEnglmal, 
bring  a  Fact-Book  of  EngliJi  Hilton/  arranged  erprenly 
for  Examination  CundidaUi.  Public  Schooli.  and  Sladenti 
generally,  by  F.  A.  White.  H.A.;  Reciied  throaghoul  and 
enlarged  by  a.  A-Dohnon.  (Board  of  Trade.)  (Locknood.) 
Preparedby  one  gentleman  of  great  experience  intliepre- 
-      'm  of  caodidatai  for  the  Civil  Sf—' "  ' 


iraphy  issned  Viv  the  same  publisher! 
Atlai  of  Britieh  Hiitary,  by  Keith  Jo 
inston,  Edinburgh.)    llilrty-one  map! 


:e  Civd 
.—The 


LL.b 

tifuii,  __„._  .  .  .--..- 

lag  Europe  and  the  World  generally  at  different  import- 
ant historical  periods,  maile  complete  by  an  Index  to  all 
tbe  places  named  iu  il,  deeeives  to  be  widely  circulated, 
and  ii  published  at  n  price  which  certalnlv  admits  of  iL — 
Dranatic  Alnuinach  for  1871,  by  3.  W.  Anson.  This 
carious  little  year-book  deserves  *  good  word  on  two 
groands:  first,  for  tbe  amount  of  amusing  infonnation 
connected  with  the  Drama  which  it  contains;  secondly. 

le  ediui,  Is,  ^ 


4*  a  Vn.  Jaw.  28, 71.] 


KOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


Eddcatiosal  Books.— Ilie  editor  of  Ibe  Patliilien' 
GraJarta*  bna  collecting  brortnitioa  wilh  ■  rierrto 

LHoing  an  index  or  cataioj;De.  diusified  lecording  to 
ubjecu.  or  Khool,  coUe^,  tcchniul  lod  g«nenl  tSacM- 
tionil  works  in  u>e  in  Gmt  Briuio.  So  muij  letnrns 
hkTe  bcm  ilieedT  recdvtd  from  publi^hcn,  tlut  it  would 
lake  eight  or  ten  page*,  dowly  printed  in  three  colnmas. 
to  giTC  tbe  short  titlea  of  merclr  elementary  publication! 
which  teach  Ihe  Engliili  langoige.  Instead,  ttierefore,  of 
a  tapplement  to  the  periodical  abore-named  it  will  ba 
n-ceoary  to  make  the  catalogue  a  diitinct  I'olanie ;  it 
will  not,  >i  a  general  rale,  induda  any  work  of  which 
there  haa  been  no  new  edition  within  the  lost  three  yean. 
Thb  Gebxahb  of  ins  Fie-t  ami  Ni:iKTKE:cni  Cci- 
TL'EUis.— A  cDrrespondent  of  the  J'oZJ  AfaU  Gaitttt 
writes  ^m  inside  Puis ;  "  The  other  night  Ibe  bamhard- 
meat  wu  >o  noinr  that  I  conld  not  sleep,  so  I  took 
Tadtos'  Dt  oBTibtu  tl  papula  Gtrvanix.  as  a  '  lecture 
pleino  d'actualil^.'    I  >aw  there  nme  things  which  are 


(the  German 


ler  that  to  retreat,  provided  they 

a  charge,  is  pradence,  not  cowardice.'    The 

French  an  lety  much  ilrack  with  this  now,  and  an 
constantly  taken  in  by  the  manmutre.  Alio  Todtns 
uys  that  the  Gernuna  areo  in  dnabttui  enoonnldrs  carry 
onbeii  dead.    Thii  is  abo  true  dov." 

Omlt  a  few  daya  before  hta  death  tba  late  Dean  Allbrd 
revised  the  pnwf-iheet  of  h)s  recent  Advent  Sermoos 
(includlEig  the  oae  preached  befi>n  the  Queen),  wblch 
will  be  isaoed  jmmedialelT  In  a  small  volume  by  Measn. 
Ilodder  *  Stou^blun,  entitled  Trvlh  and  Tnat:  jCewiu 
ofOit  Var. 

A  pEBstAn  maaascript  of  great  beauty,  containing 
nzty  futi  page  nilnialnre  illuminations,  and  profusely 
onumcDItil  throughout  in  gold  and  colours  in  the  highest 
c]asa  of  ancient  art,  was  sold  by  Measn.  Putiick  &  Simp- 
son, of  Leicester  Square,  last  luesday,  for  'iflhl.  \ 

The  next  number  of  the  Ilbiiln^ttd  Rtvino  will  be 
published  on  the  lit  of  February  by  Mfasri.  Houlston  i 
Sana  of  Paternoster  Row.  The  subject  of  the  memoir  and 
portrait  will  ba  John  Ruskin,  U.A.  In  future  tbe  Illia- 
trattd  Rrvlrv  will  be  paUished  oa  the  1st  and  IStb  of 
tbe  moBtb  instead  of  fortnightly. 

Tht.  Cobimratioh  Records. — The  aecond  Report  of 
tbe  Library  Committee  contains  tnach  valuable  infonna- 
tlnn  aa  lo  the  records  of  LohJoh  Bridge  ;  the  Chapel  of 
St.  Thomas,  and  the  Fnternily  or  Brotherhood  upon  Ihe 
Bridge ;  tbe  Payments  to  the  OfficiaLi  eonnectod  with 
this  ediike,  anil  tbe  Price  of  Materials  provided  (or  fta 
repair ;  the  Tolls  charged  npoit  Vwsels  peseing  throngh 
and  Carts,  Ac.  over  the  Bridge.  Many  of  the  deeds  b^r 
ttw  aeoli  of  the  earliest  Mayors,  snch  as  Fitz  Ailwyn, 
Serle  le  Mercer,  Hardell,  Benger,  Daalng,  Ralph  de  Saod- 
wieh,  &e.  Some  have  the  old  Citv  sal  attached  before 
its  alteratioa  In  1639.  "  When  the  Saale  was  alteryd  and 
cbanged,  and  th'  Armes  of  thya  Cytvc  made  yn  the 
place  of  the  «ayd  Tbooias  Bekk'et  on  the  one  svde,  and 
on  tbe  other  svua  tbe  Imsga  of  Saynt  Ponle."  The  Rolls 
of  Paymentfl  commence  in  1381.  Some  of  Ihe  volumes 
have  omomental  initial  letters  at  tbe  commencement  of 
eachcbapter,  and  an  in  the  original  binding.  The  Com 
Boekt,  containing  the  account  of  the  com  bought  and 
stored  In  tbe  Granaries  of  Ihe  City  and  the  Companies 
at  the  Bridge  tjoaae,  explain  the  custom  adopted  to 
praviflon  Ihe  city  in  time  of  scarcity.  The  documents 
alating  to  tha  Fradnm  of  the  City  commence  in  16B1, 
and  they  eoolaln  much  genealogical  information.  The 
jrerloska  booka  were  dotroytd  in  the  Great  Flra.  Th« 
naport  eondndca  wilh  seven!  aenalbleand  practical  ang- 


gesticD*  for  Ibe  better  prcaervallon  of  these  valnable 
arcbivea,  and  there  can  ba  no  doubt  that  the  Court  of 
Common  Council  will  see  the  detiratdlily  of  eanylng 
these  raeanunendations  iaco  effect. 

Ub.  W.  R.  UoRrrrr,  M.A,  Oriel  OMtst.  Oifoid,  baa 
in  the  press  a  new  work,  "The  Slavea,"  their  etbDolog}', 
early  histoi^,  and  popular  traditions,  with  some  account 
of  ^Tonic  literature,  being  tbe  subatanea  of  a  ootirae  at 
lectures  delivered  at  UxfonL 


tribute  their  great  priias,  have  postponed  their  iiwemhly 
till  the  31st  <?  March. 

JoimsoN  CLirn.  — Tha  first  Meeting  of  the  Second 
5ieasion  of  this  Literarv  Societv  for  (ha  purpose  of  Current 
Liierarv  Review,  was'held  last  night,  TbursOav,  Jon.  2tl, 
at  St.  John's  Gala,  ClerkenwelL    This  Club  h^  taken  a 


a  Gate,  or  6,  Harrbigtuu 


BOOKS  AND    ODD  VOLUMES 
wahtbd  to  purchase. 

S  tba  (bllovrlna  BoDki  ta  ba  teat  diree 


We  nw(  bn  o 
What  u  Kvrth  icriti 
that  it  can  bt  nod, 

G.'ap 


flatittt  ta  Carrc<|iaii&enU. 

nifnti   to  vritt  d 
i  (A>  tnoblt  of  B 


leetled,  at  regueMtid, 


P.  GrbEH  aaltfind  the  alliternliee 

"An  Aostiian  army  awfully  arrayed," 
ia  our  8^  S.  iv.  88. 

BnWHAM    TDK     CK<ITK:tAntA!(.        The    OUtltHM    it    itnt 

Khtlber  it  vae  pnaible  thai  £iviwi>  U<^ed  to  be  118,  bM 
whelhir  hr  did.  Our  flfaxcbetler  mrrtepoadtnfi  iigemina 
paper  etnifi  goei  to  prove  tbe  poatHrtiiJjl  i  aard  re  oonof 
ipare  tpace  Jor  to  Ioki  a  paper  on  tahat  I'l  mat  reallf  the 

O.  B.  IS  (Aonlof.      Ffi  haee  Ibe  letter  alrtady  I'a  typi. 
CocKSURK.— B.  S.  W.    *'or  deri-cation  ite  "TH.h  Q." 
3"  S.  Ix.  61, 109,  248. 

E.  T.    "  MouM  Cahary  "  ihall  aj^ear,  i/peniUe,  next 


Srmtrlfl  Uoutt   l-ail  (Mil.  nfitilir  9f  WlLUUI  GTsillTII,  < 
WxuUBToi  BTaaT,  BnuxD,  wx:. 


NOTES  AHD  QUBBIES, 


a(iwBusi,Wi>iii>..teivin>>pitead.i  EoitfrtOM. 

J.  TATLOR  &  SON'S 

KO&THAMPTOirSHISE  HASSBOOE, 


WOTZCB. 

»HE   C0UNTY_FAMILIE3  OP  THE  UNITED 

HARDWICEC  UK  PlriHIlT- 


L^^ 


Nm  nadr.  ODnipMc  In  3  iDlL.tuli  Ti.  <d.|  bj  ■nM.Si. 

T  ECTURES  ON  THE  HISTOH_Y  OF  mGLAIJD. 


CATALOGUE  mated  of  HctnreB  sold  bj  Pbikb 
COIB,  BUKBEU.  »iid  FOSTEB.  ■!  »,  Orltlm  SUmL  Kom- 
■SjuTibWEU.  I.  St.  SUphen'i  SQum.  Bajmtti.  Linrfon. 


Illdstb^cbd  Btvicir,  prist  3d. 
TtrOTICE.— On  and  after  FnBBiriBT  1,  the  lutrs- 

Jl     TfUTED  REVTEVT  wU]  tn  nubUitwd  ■—  """•■""    — "■" 


A  BERDEEN  GRANITE  MONUMENTS  from  61. 

print  fnm  t^OOG.  ScolptDr.  AbudBiB. 


DB.    HEED'S     SYSTEMATIC    HISTORY:    a 
Humal  of  BrlUdi  ud  ForfiUrn  Bifion,  Jbr  CoLLccbi,  Bchcnli, 
■na  FunillH.    Put  I.   CbinnolDdisl,  OiiwlDiinl.  nil  fllnUillnl 

TsUf Put  tl.  Tlie    BIniwtif  of  Modlm  IFnlnnal  Uutorr— 

PutlD.  TluFietiofBriliitiiUrtiirTfpa^Ill'deTeliiped, 
AtoJi  to  HUIWT  COBBT, - 


oi  C(^  DO  BP^onl. 


Fliotographa  of  Penoni,  Piotnrea,  &  Flaoei, 

UABION  *  ca's,  nan,  aoHO  eaoABK,  uosDOtL 


PORTRAIT  COLLECTORS.  — JoHK  Stwison 

"  ""  ""    "    '  jm  mr  own  uVu^vIk.  Fart*  60.  SI,  U, 

AL  (fATALOOI>E.  JOHN  NTEN- 


rpo  PORTR 
Ul  Olhvr  £npmv 


AUTHORS  ADVISED  WITH  a«  to  Ccat  of 
FRUCTINO  hkI  FUBUBHINO,  uA  Va  Ihw^t  modt  Df 
Ilnioul  MS8— VuwkALUui>iE,Prlala>,r7griDcnd'iJu, 


PABT&ISOS    AND    COOFEB, 

MANUFACrCRniG  STATIONERS, 
19S,  Fleet  8ti«et(Cani«r  of  OhancerjrLua). 


OiABUflK  f  AID  TO  T1 


lliIimtiFlap.li.paW. 


BI^ACE-BORMBID  BNTELOPES.  1> 
TimVD  UHED  BOTB.  «lr  H»M  Di 
0(^1JBED  eTAMITOO(BdI^n[dMl  M  U.  M.  [iB  IHB.  or 

5A3S«>ftitfctaSf5.'"" '*''*''"'*"'' ^""'  ■■"'"™ 

■^U10HFArElt,|4>In.u.|MrnruBiBnM  ditto.  tl.«d. 
SCSOOL  BTATIOKBItT  n    "   ~  ~ 


*0AZ3   ENQU8H"   FURNITURE. 


COLLinBON  and  LOOK  <late  Herrmg). 

CABinBT  -  MAEEBB, 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  £.C.    Eatabliahed  1783. 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANQINQS. 

nUatlou  of  »n  oU  BROCADES.  DAMASKS,  uid  OOBCLUI 


109,  FLEET  STREET.  LONDON.  Established  17B2. 


SAUCE.— LEA    AND    PERKINS. 


H  PKJTJANCT  AND  FI^AVOUIl. 
Ask  for  "I.21A  Aim  FBKBIN8'"  SAUOB, 
BEWARE     OF     IMITATIONS, 

AlsitkjaiOaSE  >  BI^CE  WELU  London,  ud  told  bJ  *U 


DURH.B 

inUdapcrl 


TNDIGESTION.— THE  MEDICAL  PROFESSION 


fTHE    NEW    GENTLEMAN'S    GOLD    WATCH,     5S, 

JLKETp;B9;_BojllA  M«k|l.^  mMnjwlMUiM^roato. 


LAMFXOUGH-a 
FT-SBTIC     SALIVE 

--_ —r  •»*  murklUt  prnnRlH  In  HHdndx.  B«, 

Ikksw  ratnntllit  ud  nirln«  lUr,  Soultl,  ud  otlMr  Vw 
tdnuttcd  JhrtU  u^r»  lo  tonn  tb«  moal  acrtHbla,  portaUi 


I.  l.41irL0UaH,lU.Halt»niKUt,L< 


rlulUu 


4*8.  Til.  Fbb.4,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


V>XliOS,  SATURDAT,  rSBRUART  *,txn. 


CONTENTS^N*  162. 

n01S3i-Oa  the  Modem  tJ«o(  Iho  Wort  "  Art."  89- 
Iietlor  or  Jama  Barl  of  Oleixaini  to  Jamca  TI.,  Hu«h4. 
1(07.  W  —  St^onlehire  Hid  Ameriswi  Polk  Lore,  01  — 
llTinnld  HilJ,  lale  of  Hwn,  Sj  —  Lord  Plunkelt  —  Adti- 
mitt  of  Lsdies'  ChlRoons  —  Colnddence  of  TtHiiigtlt  — 
neUnkbtGate  taa  Nuraar  Wbt— Eli^m^ainntt- 
HeoM —tiimA  Buttoiu—  Cariouifplttph-TlM  Bnp- 
BOHd  Uiltonie  Bp!t*ph  —  FbatogispliT ;  the  Wmr  ud 
'TbemnMB/'SS. 

QTESEBS I  —  AathoR  mitted — KedlKMl  Banu — litKond 
OD  B*ll»-The  BIrt  Cage  Walk—Brttiib  Boftbed  OwMta : 
Mn.  lUrktBai  —  Duariiu  of  Dniiui,  Ben  for— Curl  oua 
BDcniliiB— Meaning  ofFoa:"— The  Koboid  of  QHtban 
— Vsnl  Dell  and  Fnrli  — VHe  oTGhuko  NerilLAc.— 
Pht-BaM-Eappa  Sooietj  it  Boaton— Tbe  "FotterB"  of 
11»  Nortbem  Counties —"  Tbe  Uearta  of  Men  vblch 
fcnd^,"  So.  —  QnotatlonB  wauled  —  8t.  Joi^h'e  B™  — 
Tbomas  Btaoler,  BiaboD  of  Sodor  and  Mm  —  "  Thoughta 
€*  Patrldoa  "  -  "  Tbe  Thnea  Whi«Hfc"  «t.  hr"  B.  O?"  - 


BBPUBS  r-k  RMtonhlp  of  Biebtj-ine  Taan,  >7— "  Soma 
80toChareb,"Ac:  (Hd  Rliymea,Ba~OrdeR  of  Enfgbt- 
£oad,  l«a— BarfaarouaMinaore,  101— King  WUtlam  IlJ.'a 
Btlnrun  ud  other  Bella  at  Oirriokblaolier,  co.  Armacb, 
Kfi  —  md  Eandown  Caalle.  Iile  of  Wlgbt  —  Mount  Onlrarr 
—  OndwlnBvlrt—DeacsndanU  or  Bishop  Bedell—"  Son" 
~  KLoedPnfii- Bichard  Terriok,  Biebopof  Londfm.lTM- 


"Ulsoi 


nBorealli.Ao.,  IDS. 


I  opinion 


log" 


Within  tbe  msmoir  of  tbe  preaent  generstioD 
the  popular  uae  of  tbe  word  art  has  greatlv  in- 
creaaed,  while  its  papular  Biguification  has  'been 
much  modified.  It  is  indeed  not  uncommon  to 
meet  with  fairl;  well-informed  men  who  would 
deny  its  appropnateneH  when  tbej  hear  it  ap- 
plied to  certain  puranits  and  studies  which  from 
lime  immemorial  have  been  claeaed  among'  tbe 
arte.  I  Tenttue  to  ask  for  space  in  "  N.  &  Q."  for 
some  few  Temaiks  on  this  subject,  in  the  hope 
&a,t  tb^  ma;  elicit  lepliea  and  su^estions  &oni 
jtmr  leaders. 

Tbe  Latin  word  art,  genitive  nrlU,  whence  art 
u  daiived,  ugnified  with  tbe  Komans  acquired 
skill,  whether  mental  or  manual.  Hence  art, 
accotdii^  to  Roman  notione,  waa  both  theoretical 
and  practical,  and  the  arts  either  liberal  or  il- 
liberal. A  master  of  the  liberal  arts — artes  iSteralet 
or  iagaMta — waa  termed  arltfex,  while  one  who 
laboi^ed  with  his  hands  at  the  illiberal  arts — arte* 
tardida — was  termed  opiffx.  This  dietiDction  re- 
mains in  ouc  own  language,  as  artiU  and  arfiton, 
or  artut  and  crafttman. 

Among-  tbe  varioua  arte,  liberal  and  illiberal, 
namad  Tn  itoman  authors,  we  meet  with  art 
tmtdiea,  rhetoriea,  grammatica,  mumca,  medaniea, 
mttkeinatica,  ff^mnaflica,  in^eraloria,  manuaria, 


In  tbe  Middle  Ages,  seven  liberal  aita  were 
studied,  divided  into  the  Trivium,  wbiidi  com- 
prised grammar,  logic  and  rhetoric,  and  the  Qimit- 
rknum,  which  comprised  music,  arithmetic,  geo- 
metry, and  astronomy.  The  universitv  deg>ee  of 
maffitter  arlium  implied  a  command  <^  "tiieaa 
libeml  arte.  Tbej  are  constantlv  referred 'to  in 
early  writem,  e.  g,,  Siahffui  in  defautotum  teatetn 
Arliam  liberatiuTn,  by  Th.  Qreamond,  1497. 

The  term  "  art "  was  widely  used  in  the  da 
senie  by  early  writers;  thus  the  Ar»  Magna  of 
Jerome  Cardan,  published  in  154S,  is  a  treatiie 
on  algebra.  Erasmus  published  in  1626  a  trans- 
lation of  Oalen'a  Exkokatio  ad  honat  Artetpra- 
terUtn  Medidnam.  So  also  we  meet  with  Smtaxis 
ArUi  Mirabilu,  1581,  JDe  ArU  OccaUa,  1613,  Of 
CertayiK  Smulral  and  Dieeluh  Artet,  1561. 

Ueny  of  the  arts  above  named  would  at  the 
pieeent  day  be  mtber  termed  sciences.  The  dis- 
tinction between  art  and  science  is  well  expreaeed 
by  St.  Whewell  in  his  JUktory  of  the  Indtietim 

"The  object  of  art  i^  work,  the  solution  of  some  pro- 
blem,  the  prodiicikm  of  some  visible  result.  Tbe  o^c«t 
of  acienee  is  knowledge.  Hence  in  art,  thoosb  know- 
ledge is  naefnl,  It  is  osefnl  as  a  means  to  an  end.  But  in 
science  it  is  itself  the  end," 

Arcbbisbop  'Whately,  in  tbe  introduction  to  Ms 
Elsmeati  of  Logic,  saya : — 

"It  is  to  be  remembered,  that  as  a  science  a  con- 
versant about  ■paculative  knowledge  only,  and  STt  is  the 
application  of  knowledge  to  practice,  hence  logic  (as  well 
as  any  other  eyitemof  knowledge)  becomes,  wben  applied 
lo  practice,  on  art;  while  confined  Co  the  tbcorv  of  iBssan- 
ing,  it  is  itrictly  a  science." 

The  teims  "fine  arte,"  "polite  arte"  appear 
to  here  come  into  vogue  about  tbe  middle  of  the 
last  century.  In  theopeningaddressof  Sir  Joshua 
Reynolds  to  tbe  Boyal  Aimdemy  on  Jnnuary  2, 
1709,  he  eays:  "An  academy  in  which  the 
polite  artt  may  be  regularly  cultivated  is  at  last 
opened  among  ue  by  royal  muuiBcencu." 

From  this  date  onwaida  numerous  works  on  the 
fine  arte  appeared;  thus — in  1782  Valentine  Green 
publitJted  — 

"A  Review  of  tbe  Polite  Arts  in  France  at  the  Time  of 
tbeir  Eetablisbment  under  Lonia  XIV.  compared  with 
tbeir  prawn  t  State  in  England." 
Tbomas  Bobcrtaon's  "Inquiry  into  the  Fine  Arta." 

Sealcy'B  "  Concise  Analysis  of  the  Bellee  Letties,  the 
Fine  Arts,  and  the  Sciences."    ITSB. 

Bromlev's  well-known  "Histoi7  of  tbe  Fine  Art^ 
Piintingi'ticiilptare,  and  Architecture."    1793. 

Aa  compared  with  these,  let  us  take  two  works 
iaaued  respectively  in  176S  and  17C7  :— 
Harris,  Jss.  (Author  of  Hermci'),  "  Tbreo  TreaUses. 


.Art-,  2.  Mofic,  Painting,  Poetry ;  3.  Happinf 
Duff,  Rev.  W.,  "  An  Easay  on  Original  Ue 
vationa  Modea  of  £zenJan  in  Philosophy 


Ueoius  and 


Fine  Arta,  parlicniarly  in  Poetry." 


,«c%^le 


90 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[l-S.Vn.F«B.4,71, 


Here  the  limilstion  of  the  temu  "  art  "  and 
''fine  art"  a  not  eo  definite  as  in  tbe  other 
worka  iwaed  after  1768. 

Hazlitt,  in  the  article  "  Arts,"  contributed  bj 
him  to  the  Encychpeedia  Britannka  earl;  in  the 
preaent  centuir,  aaje :  — 

•■  Tha  tenn  jhit  artt  may  b«  viewed  u  embtaeing  ill 
tliMa  art!  in  which  the  powor*  of  ImitiUon  or  Invention 
an  ezeitad,  chieflj  with  a  view  to  ihe  prodnclion  of 
pleaiare  bf  the  immediate  impres^ioii  which  they  mole 
on  the  mind.  But  tbe  phnse  haa  of  late,  we  thiak,  been 
teatiicl^d  to  ■  namiwei  and  more  tccbnlcai  signiflcstion, 
namelj'  to  painting,  acolptnce,  enf;nviiig  and  architeo- 
ture,  which  appeal  to  the  eye  as  the  medinm  of  pleaaare, 
and  tj  V17  of  eminence  to  the  Gnt  two  of  tLaa  aits." 

May  it  not  be  assamed  that  the  restriction 
which  Hazlitt  notices  was  due  to  the  influeace  of 
the  Boyal  Academy  of  Arts  F  In  the  preseDt  daj 
the  prevaleDCO  of  Art  Exhibitions,  Art  Srhoola, 
Art  Museums,  et  hoe  genut  omne,  has  familiarised 
the  public  earwith  the  word  used  in  thia  restricted 
aenae,  and  baa  at  the  same  time  led  the  unii~ 
atructed  andthe  unreflecting  to  suppose  that  art 
something  apart  not  onl^uom  the  artisan  or  tL. 
artificer,  nut  also  from  the  master  of  arts  ',  and 
that  it  should  be  confined  sole);  to  the  arUst  and 
Ilia  worka.  A.  C.  K. 


which  had  l«cn  purchased  from  the  re[ 
tivea  of  Sir  Jamea  Balfour,  the  Lord  Lyt 
'  wards  the  end  of  the  centuiy  before  Inst   It  refers 


Lyon,  to- 


to  the  existing  feud  between  the  noble  familiea  of 
Cunninghani  nnd  Montgomery,  which,  lilte  the 
Conican  "  Vendetta,"  had  subsidted  for  a  long 

These  two  families,  after  the  fashion  of  the 
Capulets  and  Afontagues,  being  bitter  enemies, 
tooK  occaaioD  to  injure  each  other  when  a  fitting 
occasion  occurred.    At  last  matters  came  to  a 


hames  of  Kobertland,  Coreehill,  ana  others  1 
clan,  npon  Hugh  fourtii  Earl  of  Eglinton,  of  the 
same  of  Uontgomery  (for  the  latw  earls  are  Se- 
tons).  His  lordship  was  riding  from  his  own 
house  npon  April  15,  1680,  when  he  waa  basely 


*  "  It  ia  fbr  (be  fint  lime,  I  beliere,  in  the  annals  of 
your  nnirersity  that  (be  line  arts  will  hare  received  ihat 
canaideralion  which  I  betiere  to  be  their  due— ■  oon- 
rideiation  which  may,  I  hope,  in  time  remove  Ibe  re- 
proach that  oar  leading  uniTeraitiea  confer  degrees  as 
masten  of  aria  npon  students  from  whjMe  course  of 
aludy  sltnost  all  re^rence  to  the  fine  arts  liaa  haen,  as  It 
ireie,  aednlouily  eiponged." — Sir  Digby  Wyatt'i  Lte- 
tura  o»  liiK  Art,  dtlitend  at  Oambridgt. 


to  the  Scotiah  diadem.  So  that  it  was  not  until 
James  had  been  quietly  .placed  on  the  English 
throne  that  he  ventured  to  interfere  between  the 
two  powerful  families.  Whatever  may  have  been 
Ihe  monarch's  demerits,  and  they  wore  not  a  few, 
he  never  omitted  any  opportuDJty  which  presenteA 
itself  of  mitigatdng  the  miscliiea  his  oridnal  un- 
certain tenure  of  power  had  produced.  His  ma^ 
jesty,  through  his  privy  council,  and  especially 
with  the  aid  of  his  great  favourite  the  Earl  ot 
Dunbar,  contrived  to  patch  np  matters  between 
the  rival  noblemen ;  and  it  is  to  this  eettlement 
that  the  present  letter —  remarkable  for  the  odd- 
ness  of  the  spelling,  as  well  as  its  singular  phrase- 
oloCT — refers. 

The  earldom  of  Qlencairn  was  originally  a 
creation  of  Jamea  III.— a  ruler  who  has  met  with 
little  justice  from  tha  chroniclera  of  his  time.  He 
was  an  accomplished  man,  food  of  architecturer 
delighting  in  music,  and  a  patron  of  the  fine  art*. 
Hence  bis  semi-bsrbarous  nobles  first  despised 
and  then  rebelled  against  him.  He  was,  alter  his 
defeat  at  what  is  called  the  Battle  of  Ssuchie 
Bum,  assassinated  in  the  village  of  Sauchie  b; 
some  unknown  per*on.  The  house  was  in  ex- 
istence some  years  since.  The  bonotus  conferred 
hv  bira  on  his  adbcTents  were  rescinded.  Amongst 
these  was  the  earldom  of  Glencaitn,  which  was 
subsequently  revived  in  the  person  of  Cuthbert 
Lord  Kilmaurs,  his  grandson. 

"PuciasKTOwaKOiSTSACEBiDMAiKSTii,  According 
to  yowr  Uaiesleia  command,  1  submittitt  the  paiiecnlar 
binidis  and  contrawaraeis  alandiog  betirix  the  name  of 
Hongowmer^,  me,  and  my  name*  to  Seiko  frelndis  as 
waa  schosin  befoiryowr  Haiesteis  consaill  and  ihe  dnv 
■ppoynlitt  be  Ihe  cunsajll,  to  conweae  befjir  thaoie  tit 
eieeptt  Iha  aamon,  qhilke  day  we  baif  all  keipitt,  and 
Ihe  Jngia  exeeptiti,  and  ower  clamea  on  ather  syid  was 
giSn  in:  then  reetilt  tlie  commoneris  to  acre  on  (be 
owctiiman,  quhilke  thay  wald  nocht  do,  and  iwa  it  b 
cammen  in  yowr  Haieateis  bandis,  qabairaf  I  am  mairt 
glayd,  ewer  expecting  yowr  Maiesteia  moiat  gratiowsa 
favour  to  me  and  myne,  quha  hea  and  sail  ewer  earin 
maiit  aerwyabill  bsrtis  as  we  salbe  commanditL  Glf 
tbair  sail  comme  any  reportia  of  me  to  yowr  Majeslie,  I 
am  sertsne,  according  to  yowr  Malealeia  wanlilt  and 
moiat  gratiowse  eustownie,  I  wilbe  callilt  to  my  awin 
Bccont.  I  dowt  noctit  bott  yowr  moiat  Sacreld  Uaieslie 
will  iwa  aetlill  thsit  tunia,  aa  heirefler  thay  be  na 
cawiaas  of  gnge  on  alher  svd,  and  that  ewerilke  ane  of 
ws  mayjoiaae  ower  awin  kyndlie  rowmes  and  poses- 
aiownis  in  all  tyroes  cnmmeiiig.  This  erectiowne  of  th« 
Abeasej  of  Kllwyneing,  quhilke  my  lord  of  Eglingtown* 
menis  to  suite  att  yowr  Maiestje,  will  nocht  failTto  in- 
lertTBe)  Ibe  acid  of  Imbill  amsogia  we,  for  we  wilbe  all 
enterest  thairby,  and  I  protest  Sefoir  voi^r  Maiestie,  I 
hild  rather  IoImo  my  lyf  or  ony  occatiowne  war  gifin  ba 
metobreke  thatwnitej  qnhi Ike  yowr  Maitstej  will  com- 
mand. I  man  crawe  yowr  Haieateis  hnmbili  pardowse 
—  '—  *  aiwrvlt.  kj  moiat 
-'-"  -    '-Maiei 


•  See  BaUbar'i  A<mat»,  IL  16w 


lOOC^IC 


<*  S.  TIL  Fbb.  4,  71-1 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


I  pnj  tlu  Lord  lo  gif  your  MaiMtie  gnd  hiilths,  Isng 
lyf,  with  uia  praaaepemwK  rjng,  la  the  hit  of  tha  Lord, 
mint. 

Tour  MaiMUis  maiat  hnmbill  and 
obtdyeDt  lubiectt,  ewer  redej  to  be  com- 
minditt  with  all  humbill  mtwIix, 

QLXHCUBSa, 

■  EdinbnrKb,  the  fbnrtt 

of  Htn^s,  ie07. 

"  To  hii  moist  Sacred  HijaMv." 

J.M. 


STAFP0RD8B1RE  AND  AMERICAN  FOLK  LORE 

I  send  you  a  collection  of  folk  lore,  wbicli  I 

found  inser^d  as  marginal  notea  in  an  edition  of 


were  dictated  l^  an  aunt  of  fais,  a  native  of 
Smethwiok,  Stafiordsbire,  who  was  liTing  in  1866, 
but  very  ag«d.  Should  you  think  them  worthy  a 
place  in  "  N.  &  Q.,"  jou  will  oblige  by  inserting 

To  curt  Cft^n-Mii^A.— Take  out  tha  child,  and  let  it 
look  at  the  new  mooD ;  lift  up  Ita  clothes,  and  nib  jonr 
risht  hand  tip  bd4  down  iti  itoniacb,  and  repeat  the 
fcUowing  liiK9  (looking  iteadl^tlj  at  the  moon,  and 
rnbbioj;  at  the  UDie  time)  :— 

"  What  1  see  may  It  iocreaa^ 
What  I  feel  may  it  decreaae ; 
In  the  name  of  the  Father,  Sod,  and  Hoi;  Ghoat. 

When  JOU  have  jour  hair  cat,  be  sare  to  bom  the  hair 
which  is  cat  off;  fur  if  yon  throw  it  ont  of  doors,  and 
toads  Uke  it  into  their  holes,  joa  will  hare  a  perpeloal 


OD  foai  back. — If  yon  liill  a  black  beetle,  yon  will 
it  to  thnnder,  and  yoa  will  be  atrock  by  lightoiog. 


Find  a  briar  growing  in 

-..  --  - — .  r he  child  andor  and  over 

times,  fur  three  mornings  before  the  son  rises. 


"  Under  Oie  briar;  and  over  the  briar, 
I  wish  to  leave  the  chin-congh  here." 
The  briar  mast  then  be  cnt,  and  made  into  a  eniall  cross, 
and  worn  on  the  child's  breast. 

The  devil  always  pats  hiscloven  foot  npon  blackberries 
on  Hichadmas  Day,  29th  Sept. ;  therefore  after  that  day 
none  sbontd  bo  gathered  daring  the  remainder  of  the 


Day.— Cows  go  down  on  their  kneci  at  12  o'clock  on  Old 
Cbristotas  nIghL 

When  yoa  see  a  rainbow,  lake  two  straws,  cross  them, 
place  them  on  the  ground,  and  the  rainbow  will  Instantly 
disappear. 

A  black  cat  coming  accidentally  into  a  house  aad  re- 
maining there,  is  coosidered  a  lign  of  prad  ln<^ 

Tba  fint  time  yon  see  the  new 


roar  money  in  yatu  pocket  for  good  lock  ; 

,  thing,  and  ft  will  snraly  happen.    To  see 

■a  new  moon  throngh  the  branches  of  treea,  be  the  flist 


tiau,  is  considered  very  unlncky. 
To  aee  wie  magpie  alone  Is  also  very  unln<^. 


rung  oi  mo  dog. 
Galherh^  Ftni-ierd.—Oa  Hidsnmmer  night  at  12 
o'clock  go  where  the  fern  grow«,draw  a  drcla  round  you. 
Inscribe  the  twelve  ugns  of  the  Zodiac,  place  twelve 
pewter  plates  nnder  the  fbm  otia  mHuK  tit  ethtr,  and 
repeat  the  following  — 

"  In  the  holy  name  of  Jesns  may  1  be  fittA 
From  every  harm,  whilst  gathering  fern  esed." 
After  repeating  this  be  sare  yon  speak  not,  or  coma  ont 
of  the  circle  before  1  o'clock;  the  seed  wilt  drop  throa(^ 
eleven  of  the  platea.  bnt  the  twelfth  will  catch  it.  Let  no 
person  attempt  to  gather  it,  for  terrible  will  be  the  con- 
sequences  of  a  failure.' 

Id  the  village  of  Smethwick,  Staffordshire,  It  is  cn>. 
tomary  with  boys,  promising  anything  to  each  other,  to 
repeat  the  follonlag  (first  making  the  sign  of  the  crosa 
on  theli  throat)  :  — 

"  Hangy  Bangy,  cnt  my  throat. 

At  10  o'clock  at  night; 

Hang  me  ap,  bang  me  down. 

Hang  me  all  about  ttie  town." 

Believing,  if  they  do  not  perform  according  to  promise, 

the  spirit  invoked  will  certainly  appear  and  cut  their 

throats. 


To  core  Ou  Mtuapi. — Lead  the  person  afflicted  three- 

ndasprint    '    """'■ '"    ""' - 

b«  blindfolded! 

Tn  curt  H'urfs.— Eab  them  Drarwith  a  dead  man's- 
hand ;  or  steal  a  piece  of  beef,  mb  them  with  It.  aad  then 
bum  tbe  beef)  or  rob  them  with  a  black  snail,  and  then 
bang  the  snail  on  a  blackthorn  boah;  or  rub  them,  night 
and  morning,  with  fasting  spittle  i  or  rub  them  with  the 
tali  of  a  tortoiaeshell  Tom  cat  in  May. 

A  dead  person's  tooth,  carried  tn  the  pocket,  cnrea  the  - 
tooth-ache.    Ittnust  be  a  woman's  tooth  for  a  man,  aa<L 


. __   _o  the 

water,  exclaiming:  "Ague,  agut^  tboa  hast  tormented 
me.  snd  now  I'll  diown  theel"  Walk  away  without 
looking  behind  yoa,  and  the  ague  ia  cnred. 

A  small  hone  ont  of  a  sheep's  head,  carried  in  the 
pocket,  cures  tbe  tooth-ache:  it  most  be  taken  fhim  the 
light  side  for  a  man,  and  the  left  for  a  woman. 


Wittheraji. — Go  to  a  monntain-aih  baftjre  the  aon 
rises,  and  cut  therefrom  three  twigs ;  be  careful  they  do 
not  touch  the  gionad  ;  lake  them  home,  and  make  three 
small  crosses  of  them ;  tie  vilh  while  wonted,  and  plac* 
one  DEer  the  door,  one  under  the  door,  and  DM  in  tha 
bosom  of  the  person  bewitched. 


■  In  Marvell'a  poem  of  Daplaut  ami  (^Um  (mM  !1), 

.jijj^  "  Or  the  witch  that  midnight  wake^ 
For  tbe  fern,  whose  magic  weed 
In  one  moment  casts  the  seed. 
And  inviuble  him  makes." 


Joogic 


92 


NO'raiS  AKD  QUEHIES. 


[l*  8,  VII.  Fm.  4, 71. 


AjnKiour  FouLosb. — 'In P^asylTWii*,  U.S. 
America,  it  is  beliOTed  that,  if  you  do  not  kill 
the  flnt  black  makB  you  see,  you  -will  hnre  bad 
lucb  tlie  remainder  of  the  year. 

In  Virginia  h  is  belieTed  that,  if  yon  KH  a 
black  ftnuce  and  lianft  it  on  a  Fenimmon  treo 
(IHvipfroi  Virginica),  it  oaiuee  it  to  rain. 

I  copy  the  folloYring  from  a  DoYenport  (Iow&) 
paper.    The  writer  ray»:  — 

X  Chatthig  with  H  aged  ladr,  we  noticed  the  vondcr- 
ftd  pneerratioD  and  beau^  of  her  l«eth,  and  eoald  not 
lefraiiilVDBimentioiiiagll.  '  Ye»,' said  she,  ■  I  neyer  had 
■  toothache  or  loit  a  loach,  bacaaM  I  bit  the  eoakc'  On 
Inqaiiy  ihe  atated  thu.  vbta  children  at  home,  their 
bther  had  maile  Ihem  bite  a  rattleanake,  be  holding  the 
reptile  by  the  bead  fiDd  tail ;  each  child  bit  along  the 
entire  length  of  the  backbone,  not  violent];,  but  Just  so 
u  to  indent  ttie  sltin  ;  and  this  was  considered  an  ln(al~ 
lible  recipe  against  tootliache  and  deca;,  and  which  tbe 
old  lady  believe*  la  np  to  the  present  hour." 

GW).  WOBLBY. 

Philadelphia,  Fcmuj'ivtuiia,  V.  S.  America. 


TTHWALD  HILL,  ISLE  OF  MAN. 

J.  Ck.  B.  in  «  H.  &  Q."  (4'"  S.  vL  480)  prea 
t,  Mef,  but  interesting,  deacripldon  of  this  his- 
torical wHnen,  vhioh  links  the  past  with  the 
present  by  the  twofold  promulgation  of  laws 
maularly  establiahed.    J.  Ck.  R.  writes :  — 

"  The  moat  perfect  specimen  of  this  [-^law  mount]  Is 
that  in  the  Isle  of  Man  culled  T)/na!alfl-hill,  sltaated 
abont  two  miles  from  Peel,  so  named  from  the  Norae 
Thing,  pronounced  Was  (from  Old  Norse  Hiiitga,  to  dia- 
ooursa  or  deliberate  apoa),  and  void,  a  bank  or  monnd." 

"  This  monnd,  which  is  still  in  nsa,  '  consists  of  ftmr 
circular  terraces,  or  plitTorms,  each  sacceaaiTely  rising 
above  the  other,  and  diminishing  in  breadth.  The  breadth 
of  the  lowest  terrsoe  is  eight  feet ;  tbe  second  six  feet ; 
the  third  four  feet ;  and  tbe  Ibnrlb  and  Iitst,  forming  the 
apex,  six  feet.  Sacb  terrace  Is  three  feet  high;  the  total 
height  of  tbe  hill  is  twelre,  and  its  circtimterence  at  the 
base  two  bondrtd  and  forty  feet.  The  ascent  is  b;  a 
flight  of  slcpa  cut  on  the  UBtern  side  Irom  the  biaa  to  the 
■Qmmit.' " 

In  Cregeen's  Maitkt  Dktwnary  I  find  tlie  fol- 
lowing statement:  — 

*■  Crokk-kbbillown  b  John's  Chnich-hill,  or  the  bill 
of  Joba'a  Church,  called  also  Tynwald  Hill,  is  sitnate 
about  tbree  miles  fVom  Peel,  In  the  parish  of  German,  ou 
the  main  road  to  Douglas.  No  doubt  but  the  latter  part 
of  this  word  Is  a  corruption  of  Em  or  Ptum  (John). 
This  is  the  hill  or  mount  on  which  the  eoDStltuled  an- 
thoriticB  promulnte  all  their  Statute  Laws,  In  Hanks 
and  English,  to  the  people." 

In  the  (Quotation  by  J.  Ck.  K.  the  distance  from 
Peel  ia  said  to  be  about  ttvo  miles.  By  Cregeen 
it  is  stated  to  be  abnut  three  miles.  In  exoavnting 
for  a  buried  monument,  or  ruin,  au  error  of  a 
mile  might  prove  seriously  and  vexatioWy  incon- 
Tenient  It  might  also  now  be  well  to  ascertain 
and  record  the  number  of  steps,  and  the  drcum- 
fbtence  of  each  terrace. 

My  chief  object  in  this  communication,  how- 


ever, is  to  note  that,  IS  the  height,  4  tbe  numbai 
of  tenacM,  8  the  height  of  each  ascent,  6,  6, 4,  a 
the  respectiTe  widths  of  tiie  terraces;  S-i-4  Uia 
firstand  third=e+'6  the  second  andfourth— are 
all  factors  of  240,  the  drcumference,  which  is  in 
pn^rtion  to  360,  tbe  great  (urcle,  as  2  is  to  8 ; 
that  as  360:340::  3:  2;  — so  tiie  height 
13x2-t-3-8,  the  first  width;  and  the  height 
9x2-1-3=6,  the  second>idth;  and  tbe  height 
6x2-i.3  =  4,  the  third  width;  and  the  height 
3x2-6,  the  fourth  widtii.  That  there  are  four 
UKwnte,  because  four  units  compose  the  equam, 
four  weeks  the  month,  four  seasons  the  year, 
fourquartersthecircIe,andfour  =  E.N.'W.S.  That 
three  feet  is  their  e^usl  ascent,  because  three 
unite  compose  the  equilateral  triangle,  three  eidce 
-any  triangle,  three ^ trinity  genertdlj.  That 
the  product  of  the  triBDgle*snd  square,  3x4  =  12, 
the  duodecimal  number,  and  the  first  two  digits 
1,  2,  which,  added  to  tbe  digits  3,4=10,  tlie 
decimal  number;  and  by  simple  addition  the 
digits  (1,  2^  3,  4,)  6,  6,  7,  a,  9,  (0),  result.  That 
the  ascent  is  bj  steps  on  the  esstern  side,  because 
the  sun  rises  in  the  east;  that  the  height  is  12, 
because  there  are  twelve  signs  in  the  zodiac, 
twelve  diyiuons  of  the  great  circle,  twelve  montba 
in  the  ^ear,  and  that,  as  the  sun  in  his  zenith 
always  indicates  noon-day  or  twelve,  so  the  sum-  ' 
nut  of  the  hill  is  duodecimal  or  twelve ;  that 
the  sum  of  the  uiuts  of  tbe  triangle  end  square, 
3  +  4  =  7,  the  days  of  the  week,  and  the  extraor- 
dinary septiliteral  number;  that  the  udes  of  the 
simplest  right-angled  triocf^le  ara  3,  4,  6  =  12,  the 
sum,  and  -  60,  the  product  —  of  such  general 
application  in  astronomical,  gsograpbical,  and 
temporal  computations. 

-AJl  the  preceding  and  other  lessons  are  con- 
tained and  may  be  read  in  and  learned  from  tbe 
construction  of  Tynwald  Hill,  when  perused  by 
an^  one  capable  of  reading  that  ^moolical  hill 
aright. 

Thus  this  mount  or  hill  is  evidentlT  a  very 
symbolical  book  for  the  initiated  to  reaa,  and  for 
inquirers  to  decipher.  And  as  the  sun,  in  run- 
ning W  circuit,  illuminates  the  face  and  rules  or 
gOTems  the  order  of  nature,  so  the  promulgation 
of  laws,  bv  ascending  to  the  summit  of  the  mount, 
tends  to  tne  enlightenment  and  good  government 
of  society,  which  would  be  otherwise  chaolic  and 
uncivilised,  were  it  not  for  the  influence  of  an 
enlightening  ruler  or  an  enlightened  lawgiver. 

And 'for  lurther  information,  I  should  now  like 
some  correspondent  to  state  whether  tbo  fact  of 
Tynwald  Hill,  and  Cronk-Keeillown  or  John's 
Church  Hill,  being  interchangeable  designations, 
ia  accidental,  inteiitional,  or  symbolical. 

J.  Rl  AtE. 

SpitU«gate,  Gnmtbam. 


abyCiOOC^IC 


«*3.-VU.EWfc4,7I,] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


LtOBj>Fi.DNEETii.— bft»B««a!aof  Mr.  O'Ftmia- 

iW  new  number  oS  tli»  Quai'tarb/  Sevievi,  the 
rerieweT  says  in  his  Dotdce  of  Lord  PbtokeU— 

"Tbe  most  celebrated  of  hii  imigei  ia  thMoTTiine 
with  tbe  houT-gluB  and  tbe  scythe,  which  hii  emplofed 
to  iUutnee  the  e  Act  of  the  Statute  of  LiButatione." 

Lofd  Brougham  gives  the  ^jneasge  m  ^oeation 
ui  tb«  fbllowiD^  words : — 

"  Tim*  with  his  scvtbe  In  his  hand  ii  ever  mawiiig 
dowti  tbe  eridencea  of  titles;  wherefore  the  wisdoiaofHw 


a  ottt  the  periods  of  poaseasioQ  t^ 
tjw  pUa*  of  tbft  HwrniwontB  hia  x:7tb«  bu  destroTwL'' 

Lead  Amigtem  Mfsiato  (bis  passage  moie  than 
•BC«,  and  cJwwfs  with  uitbouiidad  contm^td^lJOB. 
It  is  no  doubt  T«^  fine  and  very  striking,  but  it  is 
t»  ba  regMtted  tt^t  it  is  pure  nonsetwe  ;  and  it  is 
beyond  meMura  sttaage  tbat  ka  absurdity  should 
not  bftve  been  seen  by  its  leanied  ntterai,  Lord 
Plunliett,  ot  by  either  of  its  admiring  atitics, 
Lovd  Brongham  on  the  QuurUriy  reTiewet.  I  find 
tbe  Blatter  noticed  in  the  following  terms  in  a 
pamphlet  priiited  for  private  circulation ; — 

"The  hom-glae*  meteiDgont  Che  periods  of  pooKSsIon 
U  Dot  for  tli>  pnipou  of  supplring  the  place  of  tlie  moni- 
menta  which  tbe  scythe  has  liastioyed,  bat  jost  the  oou- 
traiy — (bM  is.  ta  protect  tbe  man  io  poaaetdon  against 
muDJiiKDts  which  the  scytlu  hsa  failed  to  destroy." 

It  agpeara  to  m«  that  it  is  time  that  this 
lauded  illustratioD  should  be  rated  at  its  true 
value.  While  the  ques^n  ia  before  me,  I  may 
D0ti£e  that  there  is  a  passace  at  p.  1^  which  will 
give  some  surprise  to  English  lawyers.  The  re- 
viewer, speaking  of  Loid  Xhurlow  and  I<ord 
CUre,  says:— 

"Neither  the  Eogliah  nor  the  Iriih  chancellor  pos- 
■caiedtbe  nqoired  amoantariearniDEor  practicst  know- 
ledge. IfosC  of  Tburlow's  decrees  were  drawn,  op  br 
Ha^nve." 

Lord  Eldon,  speaking  of  Lord  Thuriow  as  a 
lawrer,  always  spoke  of  him  as  "  that  prodigious 
mai"  u.  H.  C. 

AirnauTTT  07  Ladigs'  Chiijxoks.— It  may  be 
interesliDg  to  soma  of  your  lady  readers  to  know 
tfiat  there  was  a  Oreek  author  who  lived  in  the 
second  centuiT  of  tbe  Christian  era,  and  that  he 
wrote  a  very  leamod  book  upon  Dr«amt,  in.  which 
ha  incidentally  refers  to  the  bellei  of  his  day  as 
we^ng  chtgmma,  and  adapting  the  same  eipetU- 
cote  (that  are  said  to  be)  employed  in  this  da;  for 
ttepurpose  of  increasing  their  solidity  and  beauty. 
These  are  tbe  words  ascribed  to  Artemidorus : 
"  If  a  -woiBHn  dreams  aha  has  long  and  lovely'  hair,  it 
is  a  dream  signidcaDt  of  good  lock,  efeaimptilcnrihtdirtia 

C'a  qmandoipit  ttiam  aaenit  capUlis  muiitrtM  tttiMbtr ; 
use  women,  for  the  aske  of  adding  to  their  attiactiona, 
make  use  of  othei  women's  hair." 

I  have  not  a  copy  of  Artemidorus,  nor  could  I 
procure  one  in  this  bookless  French  ville,  and  so 


cannot  veeCy  Aa  accuracy  of  the  quotation;  but 
I  give  it  as  I  find  it  in  a  modem  Oeroian  author, 
Dr.  Pfa7e,  who^  at  tlie  Bam»  time,  notifies  his 
abbonence  of  du^om  in  tiiese  terms  :— 

"JkDd  eO(  it  seems,  this  abominable  puetlGe  was  in 
fssUoa  amonuttbe  ancisnts!  Dieee  abacbeuliche  Si^ 
Echeint  also  scbon  in  AJtcrthume  genesea  zu  sein  I  " 

The  chignon  of  the  second  ceotury,  it  must  bs 
admitted,  was  not  so  monstrous  as  the  pyiamidicBl 
headrdtessee  of  the  Roman  matrona'of  Uie  first  cen- 
tu^,  of  whom  it  is  said  by  Juvenal  (Sat.  vL  600- 
603),  that  a  lady  has  her  head  piled  up  into  so 
many  folds  and  stories  in  height,  that  when  ^a 
faces  you  she  looks  as  tall  and  stately  aa  a  tragedy- 
queen,  and  when  she  turns  her  back  she  seems  to 
be  BO  diminutive  as  to  be  somebody  else  t 

"Tot  nemit  ndioibaa,  tot  adbac  compagibus  altnm 
JE^hnaX  caput ;  Andromacban  &  fVonte  videbie, 
Foat  minor  est :  credas  allam." 

W.  R  Mao  Cajjb. 

Hoacoatour-de-BiMagne;  Cotes  du  Nord,  France, 

ConfcramrcB  of  TsotrsHT, — Dr.  Johnson  baa 
Budthat"no  one  does  anything  toi  the  last  time 
(knowingly)  but  with  regret" 

I  met  recently  with  this  passage  in  Bishop 
Hall'ajifo/y  Obseniaiiiini,  xxvii. ; 

"Nothing is  more  abaurd  than  that  Epicurean  resola' 


11  die,"  &0. 

J.  A.  G. 

Carisbrooke. 

The  SiBAiaHi  Gate  asd  Nabbow  Was.— 
Matthew  viL  14.  "  Straight  is  Uie  gate,  and  narrow  is 
the  way,  which  leadeth  nnto  life,  and  few  there  be  that 
And  it*' 

Compare  with  these' words  of  our  Blessed  Lord 
eome  ungulariy  like,  utt«red  by  Keb^  upwards 
of  four  hundred  years  before ;  — 

OiiJcoiii'  mil  Bipay  tuu  nutfit,    no]  iSuv  Tira  uph  t^i 

Tni ;    .      .      .     AEttj  TottTjr  iinii'  ^  iSis,  l^v,  fl  iyoMa 
wphs  tJj*  iAijSipJji'  TrcuSilay. — Ild'n^ 


.  This,  aaid  he,  is  the  way  which  IhkMIl  to  true 

EebSs  was  a  Theban  philosopher,  and  a  disdpla 
of  Socrates,  whom  he  attended  in  bis  last  mo- 
ments. He  wrote  three  treatises,  less  knovra  than 
they  deserve  to  be.  Of  these  the  most  celebrated 
is  the  ni'NAH,  "containing  a  beautiful  and  afi^ct- 
ing  picture  of  human  life."  He  flourished  abont 
B.O.  410.  Edhuhd  Tew,  M,A. 

EnnrBB  BuPBBStinoHS. — I  gather  the  follow- 
ing from  a  Sittory  of  Snlyrt,  hr  Peter-lCIidiOflki 
(CMopbeltown,  1870) :  — I  -  nzea  by  tn  O  O  »^  I C 


94 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»S.V1I.Fbb.4,T1. 


Old  John  M'Taggut  vas  a  trader  between 
Kiatyte  and  IrelaDd.  WisliiDg  to  get  a  fair  wind 
ta  waft  bis  bark  acnsa  to  tbe  emerald  isle,  lie 
applied  to  an  old  woman  who  was  eud  to  be  able 
to  give  this.  He  received  from  ber  two  sbringe, 
on  each  being  three  knots.  He  nndid  the  tint 
knot,  and  tbere  blew  a  fine  breeze.  On  opening 
the  eecond,  the  breeie  became  a  gale.  On  nearing 
the  Irish  shore  he  loosed  the  third,  and  such  a 
humcane  arose  that  some  of  the  bouses  on  shore 
were  destroved.  On  cominK  back  to  Kintyre,  he 
waa  careful  to  uulooM  onl;  two  hnots  on  the 
temaining  string. 

"  On  the  lalanil  of  Glgba  ii  ■  well  with  same  Btonea  la 
it )  and  it  is  aaid  that  if  Lhe  Monea  be  taken  out  of  it  a 
great  storm  irill  arise." 

D.  Macphail. 

Thread  Btmons.— Tbe  making  of  thread  but- 
tons, which  was  once  a  flourishing  trade  in  Dorset- 
shire, has  DOW  almost  ceased  to  De.  It  occurs  to 
me  that  before  it  finally  departs  it  may  be  as  well 
to  record  its  nomenclature.  The  more  common 
sorts  of  buttons  were  Jam*,  Mrti,  ipraag/ei,  nnd 
muSet.  In  Mr.  Baraes's  Glouary,  j  ams  (tbe  lai^st 
size)  are  noticed,  but  not  the  pretty  little  sprangles 
and  mites,  which  are  far  too  delicate  a  mauuhc' 
ture  to  be  superseded  without  regret 

C.  W.  BnraHAii. 

CuBiouB  Epitaph. — In  the  last  centory  opera- 
tire  surgery  does  not  appear  tu  hare  been  confined 
to  the  T^ular  surgeons ;  for  in  the  beautiful  little 
church  of  Stoke  Holy  Cross,  near  Norwich,  is  a 
mural  monument  to  a  qjer^man  who  died  in 
1719,  and  is  represented^  in  an  inscription  (sur- 
lonnded  by  designs  of  various  surgical  instru- 
ments) as  having  been  distinguished  for  his  abilities 
in  theology,  physic,  surgery,  and  lithotomy :  — 

"  Memoric  Sacrum  Th«u(e  Havers,  derid,  qnl  Th«i>- 
logia,  Hedicina,  Chimrgi*  eC  Lytbotomis,  doctoi  fait  et 
ezpsrtus:  Erga  Deam  Pioi,  Erga  Homines  jiutus:  pan- 
peribua  et  cKrotii  aemper  amiciu.  Obiit  !7°  die  Janll, 
A'  I>amiDi  1T19,  cUtis  sue  60." 

I  am  tempted  to  give  ^ou  another  very  short, 
but  very  beautiful,  epitaph  from  tbe  same 
church;  — 

"  In  the  womb  of  this  tomb  twins  in  expectation  lay. 
To  be  bom  la  the  mom  of  tbe  Bcaanectlon  Day.''^ 
Chablbs  WitiJAiis,  F.R.O.P. 
Korwlch. 

The  supposed  Mutohic  Epitaph.  —  The 
phrase  "calcined  into  dust"  occurring  in  the 
epitaph  in  question  was  deemed  barbarous  by  its 
critics,  who  even  made  the  phrase  an  a^ment 
for  its  spnriousnfss.     The  so-called  barbarous  ex- 

Creasion  we  find,  however,  is  uaed  at  least  once 
y  Locke  (J^Moy  on  tit  Human  UtuUritandmg, 
book  II.  ch^.  X.  J  6) :  "  Since  we  oftentimes  find 


("be  is  speakii^  of  memotr]  the  flames  of  a  fever 
m  a  few  days  ealeme  all  uiese  images  lo  dial  and 
confuuon."  I  am  not  aware  thij  passage  has  been 
noticed  before.  J.  B. 

GIsigow, 

PHOToeBAFHT :  THE  Wab  asd  "  Thb  Tikes." 
"  N.  &  Q."  was,  we  believe,  the  first  journal 
which  showed  its  recognition  of  the  great  value 
of  photography  and  the  important  results,  literary, 
artistic,  and  social,  which  might  be  anticipated 
from  it  by  opening  its  columns  to  photographers 
until  tbe  science  had  sufficiently  advanced  to  have 
a  journal  of  its  own.  The  following  interesting 
account  of  tiie  manner  in  which  tbe  science  has 
lately  been  adopted  lo  relieve  some  of  the  social 
exigencies  resulting  from  the  dreadful  war  may, 
therefore,  verr  pro^Iy  be  transfeired  to  its 
columns  from  Tfte  Tunes  of  January  30; — 


leagaeied  inbabitants  of  Paris  aod  tbelr  relatives  and 
friends  beyond  ibe  Uermin  liuu  bave  given  rise  to  many 
contrivancea  vbicb  are  not  unlikely  to  make  a  new 
era  lo  the  history  both  of  aerouanlica  and  phologriphy. 
Among  them  mav  be  meotioned  tbe  iogenioas  device  by 
which  tbe  matter  of  two  whole  pa^ea  of  7%  Tima  baa 
been  tranamitted  fhim  London  to  Parie.  This  baa  been 
■ccompiiabed  by  photography.  Thoee  pages  of  the  ^per 
which  contained  commanicaliona  to  relatives  in  Paris 
were  photi^iapbed  with  great  care  by  the  London  Ste- 
reoscopic and  Photiigrapbic  Compacj  on  places  of  tbia 
and  almoat  Iransparcnc  paper,  aboot  an  Inch  and  a  half 
in  length  by  an  inch  iii  width.  (Jn  then  impreoions 
there  could  be  seen  by  the  naked  e^^'e  only  two  legible 
words, '  77ti  Tlmtt,'  and  aix  narrow  brown'bands  lepre- 
aeoting  the  aix  columns  of  printed  matter  forming  a  page 
of  the  newspaper.  Under  the  microacope,  however,  tne 
brown  spaces  become  legible,  and  every  lioe  of  Ihenews- 
paper  waa  found  to  have  been  dintioctly  copied  and  with 
tbe  greatest  clearnesa.  The  phot«grapha  were  sent  to 
Borde«ni  for  traunoiaaion  thence  by  carrier  pigeon  to 
Paris.  When  received  there  thev  were  magnified,  by  the 
aid  of  the  magic  lantern,  to  a  large  die  and  thrown  upon 
a  screen.  A  staff  of  clerks  immediately  transcribed  the 
messages,  and  sent  tbem  off  to  the  places  indicated  by 
tbe  advertiaers.  The  eucceBS  of  tbia  experiment  givea 
the  hope  that  the  new  art  of  compressing  printed 


r  inb 


smaU  c 


ifill  n 


If  a 


Tht  TVnui  can  be  compteased  Into  a  space  littla 
lan  that  occupied  by  a  poatage  stamp,  tbe  matter 
of  an  octavo  volume  might  be  made  to  cover  not  more 
than  two  of  its  own  pages,  and  a  libraiy  could  be  re- 
daced  to  the  dimensions  of  tbe  amallest  prayer-book. 
What  a  relief  It  would  be  to  tbe  learned  persons  who  fre- 


catalogue  of  books,  they  had  iL 
bondred  Volnmes  reduced  to  a  space  a  yard  square,  over 
which  a  microscope  could  be  hurriedly  passed.  Such 
tnggestions  are  now  occupying  the  thoughts  of  pholo- 
giapbera." 


a  by  Google 


*'»S.Vir.  Feb.  4, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEJilES. 


95 


Aurcietf. 
AiTTRoaa  WAiTiBD.— Who  is  the  aDthoT  of — 

"  Bertrand,  or  Heinoira  of  a  Korthumbijan  NoUeman, 
in  the  ScTentecntli  CcnCur}-.  WrilWn  by  HlmMlf."  In 
8  vob.  "  London,  printed  «t  the  Minerva  Preu  for  Lane, 
Newnun,  &  Co,  Uadenhall  Street,  1808." 

J.  FERRr. 

Walthsm  Abbey. 

"  Marv  Magdalen's  Tears  irip'l  off  ...  .  Londoo  : 
Printed  fur  Kobert  Tairlrtt,  n(  Iha  Bible  in  Cbancer/ 
Lane,  near  Fleet  Street,  1670." 

The  vork  AdvocatcB  strouglj  private  conreuioD 

Medieval  Babks.— In  those  inaUnces  \Th«re 
the  finiids  Btill  remaiit  ua  the  gables  of  the  roof,  1 
have  obaeired  that,  instend  of  being  as  ia  usual, 
npright,  they  are  of  a  beot  form.  I  hfiTe  never 
observed  them  of  the  same  form  in  nay  other 
mediasval  biulding ;  and  this  form  being,  eo  far  aa 
I  am  avTue,  conmied  to  buns — and  being  more- 
over, as  I  thiak,  aingularly  ungraceful — I  have 
been  led  to  coojecture  thst  it  must  have  hud 
some  symbolical  meaning.  Can  any  of  JOur 
correspondents  offer  any  explanation  of  itP  A 
representation  of  a  finial  anch  as  I  refer  to  will 
be  found  in  tlie  Oxford  Olouaiy,  6th  ed.  plate  66, 
At  yii&  Iiittleton,  in  Worcestershire,  there  is  a 
barn  on  which  there  are  four  such  finials,  all  bent, 
if  I  recollect  rightly,  towards  the  south. 

BiCHlBD. 

Ltoens  oh  Bblu.— Can  any  lover  of  bells  tell 
me  where  the  following  legend  is  F  The  initial 
cross  and  interrening  stops  are  very  elegant,  and 
the  letters  highly  ornamented.  I  possess  a  rub- 
bing of  it,  but  nave  no  memorandum  where  or 
when  it  was  taken.  I  am  informed  that  the  same 
cross  and  slops  are  on  bells  at  St,  Mary's  Bever- 
ey,  and  at  Slanground,  Hunts.  This  is  the 
legend  in  ejieiuo ;  — 

»  €iiit<ul  :  ttoiUaum  :  Mi^wl :  (t  :  Su|; : 
SIninuiruni. 

H.  T.  Ellacombe. 
Oyst  St.  George,  Devon. 

The  Bird  Caob  Walk.— When  I  first  remem- 
ber the  Bird  Cuge  Walk  in  St.  James's  Park  — 
"In  iD.v  hot  yootfa,  when  Georea  the  Tliird  wsi  Idog" — 
it  waa  the  drill-gTound  of  the  young  soldieis 
belongioff  to  the  1^1  Ouards ;  and  the  length  of 
the  stri(U  or  step  which  they  were  taught  waa 
marked  by  rows  of  narrow  white  stones  let  into 
the  gravel.  Is  this  a  common  practice,  end  how 
long  is  it  nnce  they  were  taken  up?  How  this 
honid  war  recalls  to  mind  the  distressing  scenes 
I  have  witnessed  in  the  Bird  Cage  Walk,  when 
detachments  of  the  Quards  wen  marched  off  to 
foreign  eervice  I  W.J.  T. 


British  Sotthes  Chariots  :  Maa.  Mare- 
BAX. — I  have  just  read  with  great  interest  Mr. 
Trollope's  graphic  summary  of  Csasar's  Commen- 
tatiea  in  the  admirable  series  of  Ancient  Clauka 
for  English  JReadtrs,  edited  by  Mr.  Coliina.  It 
contains  a  note  at  pp.  70-80  denying  that  the 
Britons  used  scythed  chariots.  This  question  waa 
brought  forward  in  "  N.  &  Q."  in  1860  (2»*  S. 
ix.  £S5),  but  was  never  followed  up,  though  the 
Editor  invited  special  attention  to  it  aa  an  inter- 
esting subject  which  deserved  further  investiga- 
Uon.  Mr.  Trollope,  I  think,  does  not  state  tlie 
case  very  happily  or  fairly,  and  seems  to  me  to 
do  scant  justice  to  the  excellent  writer  who  is  so 
well  known  under  her  adopted  name  of  Mrs. 
Markham.  He  angles  out  Mrs.  Markbam  and 
Eugene  Sue  as  peciuiar  people  who  have  mainly 
fostered  the  popular  deluaion  that  the  Britons  u^d 
scythed  chariots,  whereas  the  matter  was  never 
questioned  (as  the  Editor  of  "  N.  &  Q."  observes) 
until  the  year  1840,  when  the  Marquis  de  Lagoy's 
work  appeared— .«.  o.  see  the  Pemy  Cyclopceiui, 
Lend.  1838,  s.».  "Chariot." 

As  to  Mis.  Penrose  ("  Mrs,  Markham  "),  I  ven- 
ture to  say  that  her  Mittory  of  England  (first 
published  in  1823)  is  the  beat  history  for  the 
young  that  ever  appeared,  and  is  fiu  superior  to 
many  works  of  much  higher  pretension.  It  is 
well  written,  well  informed,  and  marked  by  sound 
judgment  and  Kood  sense,  and  is  moreover  ex- 
tremely interestug.  I  know  of  no  history  used 
in  any  of  our  public  schools  at  all  comparable  to 
it  It  is  on  a  different  plan  from  Hiss  Yonge's  ex- 
cellent Laadmarkt,  but  is  equally  meiitorions. 

^  ^      '  «.Q. 

DBifARics  OF  Drubus,  Sebior. — I  have  in  my 
cabinet  a  denarius  of  Druaua,  Sen.,  struck  when 
he  had  the  title  of  "  Princeps  Juventutis."  The 
obverse  has  a  plain,  unlauieated,  and  very  youth- 
ful bust    Legend — 

HERO  OLAVn  .  CABB  ,  DRVSVB  SSRII  . 
PBINC  .  ntVXHI. 

On  the  reverse  are  four  sacred  implements — 
Tic  the  lituus,  tripod,  patera,  and  ladle  for  liba- 
tions.   Legend — 

BACBKD  .  CO  .  OFTmOHH  COHL  BTPRA 
nvK  .  BX  8  .  C 

It  is  the  reverse  legend  that  I  cannot  under- 
stand. What  would  it  be  in  full,  and  what  is  the 
meaning  and  application  of  it  P  J.  U.  M. 

CfRIous  EireRAViira. — In  a  volume  (De  Arte 
CahoUitica)  containing  works  of  P.  Riccius,  l*o 
Hebneus,  Renchlin,  and  Ficua  Mirandolus,  printed 
at  Bssle,  1587,  there  is  a  curious  print,  extending 
over  both  the  open  folios,  representing  a  tourna- 
ment in  a  court  euclosed  on  all  sides  by  houses. ,  ^ 
Nine  knights  are  on  each  side,  six  actually  en- 
gaged.   One  has  just  tmhorsed  his  adversary,  and 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[iu-S-Vn.  Fm.4,'71. 


Ib  tbiowing  up  bis  epeta  into  the  air  in  token  of 
'toiuinph.  His  nnhorsed  adverenry  is  placed,  «p- 
pMently  in  derision,  on  a  wooden  rail.  The  fol- 
lowing is  written  above  the  plate  in  continuoiu 
Unes  over  both  folios :  — 

"  Exemplum  Indicra  cominisslonU  cqnestriB  oliin  ib 
eqnestn  ordjae  «t  nobilitaU  GennsaicB  concelsbrari  et 
ezJiiberi  toliCie  in  qno  qas  (obindB  a  nobis  toto  libro 
secnndi  tomi  PandecUrom  triumphalium  da  cnratoribus 
wl  clrd  limina,  da  fonium  incisiona,  de  modiperatoriboa 
pugriE  de  Beptornni  in  eqnilatiotie  ftmosa,  nnnommqae 
et  equi  arnissione.  cle  detiodioTum  deniqae  ampiitttione 
nr,  D<;uloriim  aeniibiu  maaifesda- 


1  aubtici 


Mbakibg  of  "Fob." — What  b  the  origin  or 
meaning  of  the  word  "  fog"  as  Applied  to  the  later 
growth  of  grass  in  fields  for  teednig  purposes  P 
The  word  ia  common,  I  believe,  in  only  parts  of 
Yorkshire,  where  at  "WTiithy  I  was  struck  first 
with  it,  in  an  advertisement  of  "  so  many  acres  of 
fog  to  be  sold,"  S.  H. 

i Wedgwood  eonnecis  Fog  and  Fuj,  which  he  deflnea, 
TII8B  not  eaten  down  tn  the  anmmer,  that  ^o«a  in 

Wvlcb/u'ir;  but  it  would  saem  Irom  Atkinson's  Glonan/ 
of  the  ClrtcloMt  Dialat ,  tb«t  in  that  district  and  ia 
neltniortland,  while ./ng  is  applied  to  the  aReigrovtb  in 
meadows  when  the  hay  has  been  cut  otF,^  iliDply  means 
a  dried  grass  Stem.] 

The  Eobou)  of  Gbobbn.— What  is  the  pre- 
(ase  title  of  on  BDODymoas  work  on  this  subjeot 
.published  in  1719,  and  also  of  Oottfr.  Wahrlieb's 
naTTstlTe  P  I  have  7a»i^U»  der  nitien  Wahrheit, 
1723,  by  Jeremina  Hemiscb,  and  VntenicU  toie 
man  Getpentler  und  OetpemtergeschichUn  ptiifin 
toll,  t.  I.,  1723  (by  whom?),  and  wotild  be  glnd 
to  learn  if  there  are  other  tracts  on  the  same  sub- 
ject Scott. 

Manx  Cat3  atjd  Fowls, — Can  any  of  your 
readers  refer  me  to  any  theory  which  has  Been 

Eut  forward  to  account  for  the  existence  of  the 
reed  of  tailless  cats  and  fowls,  so  common  in*  the 
Isle  of  Man  P  MoRiENSia. 


Wipe  ov  Oborsb  Nbvill,  etc.— Who  was  the 
wife  of  George  Nevill,  Lord  Latimer,  eon  of  Rnlph 
Nevill,  Earl  of  Westmoreland,  by  Joan,  daughter 
of  John  of  Gaunt ;  also,  her  armorial  bearings  P 
J.  C. 
Phi-Beta-Kappa  Society  of  Bostok.^— Please 
say  why  this  society  is  so  called.  What  do  the 
three  Greek  initial  letters  mean  ? 

Jaitm  J,  Lahb. 

[Consult  "  N.  4  Q."  i"'  S.  iii.  lOB.] 

The  "PoTTERa"  of    the    NoHTHBiwr  Coinr- 

TiEs. — Has  any  correspondent  of  "  N,  &  Q."  ever 

nuaed  a  discussion  on  the  nbuye  nomadic  trihesP 


They  have  all  the  diaracteristics  of  the  gypsy 
tribe ;  but  are  they  gypsies,  or  are  they  not  tha 
descendants  of  the  Scotch  and  English  moss 
troopers  ?  Some  of  the  real  gypsy  tribes  disown 
the  potten,  biit  others  say  they  are  the  same. 
The  jollowing  are  surnames  home  by  potters  in 
the  North  British  isles :  Jollie,  Younghusband, 
Ibbetson,  Bell  (Wordsworth's  potter  was  a  Bell), 
Storey,  Stanley,  Cooper,  Solomon.  I  cannot  in- 
crease my  list,  which  I  know  is  imperfect.  Of 
the  above  names  I  think  that  the  only  gyiny 
ones  are  Stanley  and  Cocker.  It  is  curious  to  find 
the  Jewish  name  Solomon  borne  by  "  potters."  I 
could  say  more  on  the  subject,  but  I  postpone 
further  remarks  and  conjectures,  in  hopes  that  we 
may  have  informaliou  from  some  one  who  haa 
studied  the  subject  more  than  1  have  done. 

Jai[E8  Uehkt  Dixoh. 

"  The  Hbabts  op  Men  which  pokblt,"  etc. 
W  ho  is  the  author  of  the  lines  inscribed  on  the  cor- 
nice of  the  domed  gallery  at  the  Royal  Academy, 
Burlington  House,  and  which  run  as  follows :  — 
"The  heatta  of  men  wbich  fbodlyhere  admire 
Fair  seeming  ihewi  may  lilt  themselvea  up  higher, 
And  Iram  to  lovo  with  zoalons  humble  duty 
The  eternal  {boDtaiu  of  tliat  heavenly  beauty." 

E.  K.  T. 

QmTATIOSS  WAUTBD.— 

"  Rua  hoc  vocsri  debet,  an  domoe  longe  ?  " 

Maxbocheis. 

Who  b  the  author  of  some  stanzas  entitled 

"Good  Night"?    They  appeered  in  the  ioiirfon 

Literary  Journal   (I  think)  before  October,  1829. 

I  give  Uie  commencement  of  the  first :  — 

"  Good  night  to  thee,  lady,  though  mnny 
Have  Joined  in  the  dance  to-night,"  Ac. 

L.  T.  A. 
"  A  glowing  iris  bending  o'si  the  »tonn, 
A  swan  emerging  from  the  waves  as  bright,"  die. 
Asas, 
St.  Joseph's  Eve.— 

"  This  is  the  Bong  one  might  perecira 
On  ■  Wednesday  mom  of  St.  Joseph's  Eve." 
These  lines  occur  in  Longfellow's  translation  of 
The  Blind  Oirl  of  Cadil-Ceilii,  from  the  Gascon 
of  Jasmin,  and  hear  reference  to  nn  approaching 
wedding  procesuoa.  Can  yon  help  me  to  any 
meaning  of  them,  oi  tradition  connected  with  this 
dayP  I  have  read  that  St.  Joaeph'a  Day  is 
unlucky  for  marriages.  A.  S. 

Thomas  Staxxet,  Bishop  of  Sobob  and  Mak. 
In  the  Lancashire  Chaniriee,  vol.  i.  p.  60,  note, 
being  vol.  lis.  of  the  Chothnra  Society,  this  pro- 
late, who  was  also  Rector  of  Winwick,  Wigan, 
and  North  Meoles,  issaid  to  he  "a  younger  son  of 
the  second  Lord  Monteagle."  In  an  article  ly 
BnuoTHECAE.  Chetham  ("N.  &Q,"  4"  S,  vi. 


*&  Tn.  P«B.4,T1.]. 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


97 


iltjmeB,  to  be  the  "eon  of  that  Sir  EdwttHl  SCfm- 
leywho,  for  hia  votour'  Ett  Floddea,  was  orssted 
Lord  Monteagle  " — the  firat  Lord  Monteegle,  I 
mppose.  AutboDj  k  Wood  (Alhen.  Oxon.,  vol.  ii. 
coL  807)  conteote  himeelf  with  Mying  tiiat  he 
waa  a  cadet  of  the  fiimily  of  the  Stanleys,  which 
is  true ;  but  I  want  the  whole  truth.  Where 
was  tbis  prelate  boried,  Mid  where  else  than  ' 
priratelj  printed  books  can  a  oopj  of  the  Stanley 
poem  oa  the  Earls  of  Derby  be  found  P 

"Thocohis  ot  Piraicnia."— Who  was  Ibi 
uthor  of  the  above  work,  of  which  the  full  title 

"  Tfaoogbts  of  Patririnis  sn  Ulilitist,  on  the  Interasla 
of  Hankind  and  piTticulirly  on  Ihosa  or  die  Xiiiii  Nation ; 
■iM  ■  few  occsnonal  TiscM.  The  whole  writUn  late  in 
life  hj  an  Honoiarf  Member  of  ihe  Dublin  Society. 
I>abUD,  1785." 

On  the  title-pflge  iu  mj  copy  ia  the  following 
MS.  note:— 

"  Aod  ia  trutb  lo  fuithfally  priDtod,  tbet  y*  author  is 
almost  ashamed  even  to  beatow  it  to  his  much  admired 
Bolingbroke.  He  )uppre«wd  ;■  sale  of  it,  because  of  Its 
defects,  bat  dispersed  ft  to  his  dssceiidaati,  in  y*  hope  of 
iU  doiuK  some  good— linoiriiig  that  a  good  InUntioa 
dfOtted  it.    Deo.  T'',  1795.  B.  G." 

E,  Ph.  SaiaLEr. 

Loi^  Fea,  CurioknuicraBS. 

"  Thb  TiMBa  WnwTLB,"  bto.  bt  "R.  C."— In 
"The  Times  Whistle,"  which  I  am  now  editing 
bom  the  Canterbury  US.,  occuib  the  following 
IMWge:  — 

"  Carrier  of  late  would  Iiava  made  hii  otreer 
(Th inking  perhaps  to  be  uteemM  dear 
Of  th'  anUcbrisdau  prdatc)  to  tbe  oiltj 
Ofaeven-biirdHome:  -O,  and,"  say  some,  "twas  pilty 
That  his  (boir  e're  [hey  grant  it  lewd)  intent 
Met  not  s  look't  fbr  prospcron*  event. 
For  tae.  beeaose  big  learmng  wu  not  small, 
Uiglil  in  abort  time  have  twen  a  CaidinaU.' 
What  bis  Hicceese  had  prov'd  I  dare  not  say, 
For  he  was  cat  of  from  bis  nishM  prey : 
High  Jove,  infens'd  (hat  Ihuj  he  sbould  backslide. 
Stroke  him,  and  in  a  neighbour  land  he  died. 
Some  tblok  he  ifai  not  Apottdicall. 
Bat  alwaiea  in  bit  heart  papbticall,"  Ac 


?ys: 


.    __-8  this  description  of  "Carrier"? 

2.  Can  any  reader  of  "  N.  k  Q-"  surest  who 
"R.  C,  Gent."  wasF 

The  date  of  the  satiies  may  be  placed  &  little 
earlier  than  1616 ;  the  poema  in  thb  latter  year. 

Farerabam.  3.  M.  COWPER. 

MncTAL  EaouiTT  o9  thb  Sexbs, — It  would 
be  intereatinr,  as  tonchiDg  thia  mncb-debated 
<iaeBtion,  to  leam  whether  that  atrange  f^ft  of 
natural  calculation  (possessed  amon^  others  by 
tlu  late  Archbishop  Whately  in  bi»  boyhood) 
W  erer  been  bestowed  om  girie.     I  have  put 


this-  <]uery  before  without  receiving  any  nply. 
Surely  among  the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  thue 
diouM  be  some  able  to  give  one. 

NOBLL  BaDXCLDTB. 

Tbohsoh  a.  DstUD. — Why  does  Collins,  in  his 
ele^  on  Thomson,  call  him  a  Druid  F  I  am  not 
asking  for  a  learned  dissertation  on  the  term.  I 
know  the  meaning  of  Druid.  But  how  was  the 
"  poet  of  the  seasons  "  one  ? 

Stspukit  Jacksoit. 

Ts&  Canal  of  XEBXse.— In  Cox's  MytJidlogy 
of  the  Aryan  Natimu  (i.  03)  occurs  the  following 

"  It  ia  now  asserted  that  ■  OfTa's  dyke '  is  a  natural  work, 
and  OSk  himself  is  thus  carried  suspiciously  near  the 
cloud  land  of  mythology.  The  fupposed  canal  of  Xerxes, 
at  the  base  of  Mt.  Athos,  has  shared  the  same  fate  i  and 
tbe  anspidoD  of  Juvenal  (^  74),  that  the  atory  was  a 
tnyth,  has  Ihns  been  verified.  '  OSa's  dyke '  and  the  canal 
ofXerxcfl  are,  in  short,  no  more  artificial  than  Fingol's 
Cave  and  the  Giant's  Causeway." 

As  regards  ths  canal  of  Xerxes,  this  seema  a 
bold  assertion,  and  especially  in  spite  of  the 
authority  of  Tbucydides  (bk.  iv.  lOG)  and  of 
Herodotus  (bk.Tii.),  whose  testimony  alone  would, 
I  should  think,  be  quite  strong  enout^h  to  prove 
that  it  bad  existed.  Col.  Lealu,  in  bis  Travel*  at 
Greece  (vol  iii.  ch.  ttit.),  gives  particnlara  of  a 
careful  survey  of  it,  and  likewise  B  reason  why  it 
sbould  be  made.  The  auspituon  of  Juvenal,  con- 
sidering his  well-known  tendency  to  ezaggeratioa 
and  his  contempt  for  the  Oreeklings  and  "  para 
Nilinci  plebis,"  sc,  cannot  be  taken  into  account. 
What  is  Mr.  Cox's  authori^  for  die  asaeitioo, 
and  what  tbe  verification  of  Juvennl'a  suspicion  P 
T.E.  C. 

OOTBRNllENT  StiHP    fSS  PiCTUEB   CAlTTAa. — 

Con  any  one  inform  us  when  the  government 
stamp  on  picture  canvas  was  first  imposed  and 
when  taken  offP  H.  O.  &  ( 


K  4  Co. 


A  EECTOESaiP  OF  EWHTT-OHE  TEARS. 

(4^  S.  Tii.  50.) 
A  correspondent^  who  dates  from  TurveT,  says 
that  tbe  psri^b  register  of  Enossington  Grange 
"  records '' Richard  Sanwon  as  rector  of  the  parish 
from  1568  to  1039.  Although  I  have  no  acquaint- 
aace  with  that  register,  I  can  venture  to  assert 
that  it  "records"  no  such  fact.  Tbis  corre- 
spondent has  been  misled  by  an  absurd  fitUacy, 
excusable  in  one  who  is  evidently  not  an  expert 
in  perish  registers.  The  bets  are  these :  Parish 
registers  began  generally  bv  an  injunction  of 
Thomas  Cromwell  in  1638.  ^bese  registers  vrere 
small  books  of  paper,  liable  to  decay  and  to  be 
lost,  and  many  of  them  did  thus  sufier.  In  the 
fit«t  year  of  James  I.,  1803,  an  injunction  was 
issued  (see  Gibson's  Codex,  i.  229)  commanding 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


[**8.Vn.Fu.l,'7L 


every  jwrish  lo  1»  provided  nith 
booli  for  the  renEtei ;  flnd  it  wu  further  ordf  red 
that  the  old  legiatera  from  1638,  or  as  fnr  back  as 
they  could  he  fouDd,  should  be  copied  into  this 
new  book,  and  that  the  miuiBter  and  church- 
wudena  should  Bubscribe  their  names  at  the  foot 
of  every  page  or  year.  Hence  it  is  found  that 
li«flrly  all  the  regislere  -whieh  extend  back  beycDd 
1603  are  signed  from  the  beginning  by  the  incum- 
bent of  the  latter  dale,  and  of  course  continue  to 
be  ao  signed  till  the  end  of  his  incumbency. 
Thus,  if  the  registers  of  EnoiBiogtou  Grange  had 
gone  back  to  1638,  as  they  would  have  done  had 
some  not  been  lost,  this  correspondent  would  have 
astonished  ua  with  a  rector  who  had  reigned  one 
hundrrd  and  one  years,  and  whose  age  must  then 
have  been  at  least  a  bundled  and  twenty-five ! 
Here  ia  another  centenarian  vox  et  pretterta  nihil.' 


You  will  doubtleas  receive  miiny 
tioDS  showing  that  this  supposed  long  incumbency 
arose  from  Bichard  Samson  signing  the  new 
registers  i  but  would  it  not  ba  well,  by  way  of 
clenching  the  matter,  to  ascertain  from  the  dio- 
cesan registers,  if  possible,  who  the  rector  or 
rectors  of  Enosungton  Orange  vera  betveen  John 
WestmiU  and  EicWd  Samson  F  II.  F.  T. 

The  difficulty  of  your  correspondent  11.  is  one 
which  presents  itself  to  all  sluaents  of  old  regis- 
tere  at  the  commencement  of  their  researches.  In 
explanation  let  me  quote  a  few  lines  from  the 
Cambridge  Camden  Society's  Churche*  of  Cam- 
hridgethire,  p.  16.  The  church  being  described  is 
Cherry  Hinton ; — 

"The  parish  r^rter  dates  back  a>  far  u  1SS8>  tbe 
^tar  in  wbich  Cnuawdt,  then  vicsi-genfnl,  iuucd 
bii  injunclioD  with  r«g*ri.  to  Ihem  :  il  i>  nol,  however, 
to  be  inferred  that  Iha  existing  vuln me  ia  ofthatdite; 
for  in  tlie  laet  of  (bs  coDslilulions  of  tbe  synod  of  tbe 
province  of  Canlerbnry,  hdd  in  1697,  it  vu  ordained 
tbal  tbe  parish  booka,ni09t  of  which  liad  beRire  that  time 
been  liept  on  paper,  librii  eharlacca,  should  ba  trto- 
scribed  on  parchment,  nnd  so  kept  for  the  fbtarei  eiefa 
page  of  the  transcript  befof;  signed  by  (he  minister  and 
chureh wardens,  gardiam  or  the  church." 

In  the  register  at  Cherry  Hinton  some  observer 
had  noted  that  eveir  page  from  J638  to  1004 
was  signed  by  Hr.  Moigne,  ricar,  who  had  thus 
entered  in  the  book  that  he  had  been  ricar  for 
sixty-sis  years,  and  had  had  the  same  church- 
wardens for  fifty-nine  years.  But  this  aame 
Thomas  Moigne  died  before  be  was  seventy  years 
old,  and  was  made  Bishop  of  Kilmore  seventeen 
^ears  after  he  resided  Cherry  Hinton.  In  a  note 
IS  mentioned  en  instance  of  the  same  thing  at 
Bishopsboume  church,  Kent,  wliore  the  signa- 
ture of  Richard  Hooker  occurs  as  early  as  1606, 
at  which  time  he  was  about  thirteen  years  of  age. 

In  this  neighbourhood  I  hara  mot  wilh  many 
^^llutrations  of  the  above.     At  Whittlesey  St 


Mary  the  rignature  of  I^ancis  Gates  occurs  as 
vicar  from  1660  to  162S ;  and  a  subsequent  vicar 
has  made  note  to  the  effect  that  he  whs  vicar  "for 
sixty-four  years  or  thereabouts."  But  in  fact  he 
was  presented  in  1690  and  died  in  1633,  and  vraa 
consequently  vicar  when  the  order  of  convocntion 
was  mode  for  transcribing  the  old  books.  In 
Elton  the  register  begins  at  tbe  year  1660,  yet  it 
was  "made  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord  1508," as 
the  heading  informs  us.  At  Eye  and  at  Peakirk 
the  copyists  append  their  name's.  At  Castor  the 
curate  and  duircbwardeDS  testify  to  the  correct- 
ness of  the  transcript.  This  is  done  in  Latin, 
except  once  thus :  "  It  agrveth  with  tha  original], 
as  witnesseth  Edward  Stokes,  Curat,"  &c.  And 
the  following  is  the  heading  of  the  register-book 
at  Marholm : — 

"Tbe  Regr  books  belnngioK  to  the  pish  of  Marhsm 
whcnn  is  recorded  tho  names  of  all  tncb  as  have  been 
maried  baptized  nnd  buried  sence  the  years  of  our  lord 
cod  one  thomand  Ave  hundreth  tbrrescore  and  five  befbni 
the  w'''  tyme  is  not  snvnsmes  Kegistred  to  bft  found 
tnity  coppved  oul  in  A"  I)°>  1533  acrordine  to  the  Qneen's 
Ms'^  Iniunction  and  statute." 

relerborongb,  "W.  D,  SWEETIKO. 

The  marvellously  prolonged  incumbency  of 
Richard  Samson,  supposed  to  be  rector  of  knos- 
sington  in  Leicestershire  from  1558  to  1639,  is 
readily  explained,  but  not  in  the  way  suggested 
by  the  editorial  note.  It  is  amusing  that  thia 
hallucination  of  the  last  century  should  be  revived 
just  now,  only  a  few  months  E^ter  the  appearance 
of  an  excellent  essay  on  Fariak  RegiiUr*,  by  Rob* 
Edmond  Chester  Watery  Esq.,  B.A.,  of  the  Inner 
Temple  (reprinted,  in  8vo,  1870,  with  Additions 
and  corrections,  from  The  Some  and  Foreign  Jit- 
view  for  April,  1803),  This  ossny  is  in  many 
respectsmore  complete  than  the  History  of  Parith 
Mtgitlert  'by  the  Iste  Mr.  John  S.  Dum,  of  the 
second  edition  of  which  (1802)  it  vras  originally 
written  as  a  review. 

The  importance  and  value  of  pariah  registers 
seem  to  have  been  never  better  appreciated  by 
the  OeroT  than  at  the  close  of  the  sizteanth  cen- 
tuiy.  TKer  had  then  been  kept  for  about  seventy 
years,  and  tho  old  paper  books  were  in  many  places 
decayed  or  wearing  out.  Provision  was  therefore  ■ 
made  that  they  should  be  transcribed,  and  on 
parchment  instead  of  paper.  Mr,  Waters  stetea 
that — 

"  On  October  So,  IfiBT,  the  clergy  of  Cinterbury  in 
convoeation  mad*  a  new  ordinince  rsspecting  registers, 
formallyapprovedbythsqaeca  under  the  great 

nees  by  noticing  their  very  great  utility 

),  and  lays  down  minnte  regulation    *~~ 


(mi-im 
tbeir  p 


preservation,  wiiieb  vera  uftervrards 'embodied  in 

tha  7l>th  canon  of  L603 Tbe  canon  directed  that 

every  parish  should  provide  itself  wilh  a  pardiment  book, 
and  that  (he  entries  from  the  old  paper  books  should  bB 
traoKribed  therdn,  each  page  being  aathenticated  by  tbe 
■ignatnre  of  the  miiilster  and  churehwanlens.'' 


4»8lVII.  FfiB.*,*71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


ludieroDB  notioD  rupoctiDg  the  longevity  of  tbs  clergy  of 
tba  nxteeoth  oeDtorv,  which  at  one  time  tbuad  itrenuDoi 
Mteden  aiiKingst  ■nCiqaarian  writer).  (Cole'a  MSS.  xll. 
810.)  Thns  Dancumb.  in  hU  Hiilory  of  Htrtfordikiri, 
ii.  es,  gnvelj  ossertg  that  BaberC  Barnes  wu  vicar  of 
Bromyard  dnring  eighty-two  years,  an  his  Dsme  appears 
doriDg  tbe  whole  of  Ibst  perioil  in  the  parochial  regislera, 
and  that  one  of  hia  cburcbwardeoa  filled  that  office  from 
1335  to  leOO  iacluidTe.  Another  iattance  of  this  enp- 
poud  longevity  was  a  certain  Mr.  Simpson,  vho  was 
muKined  to  have  enjoyed  the  living  of  Keybam  in  Leicea- 
Icnbiiv  fbr  ninety-tiro  years,  and  to  bave  had  the  same 
charchwirdeaa  for  seventy  years." 

In  the  SiUory  of  Zeicetterthire,  iii.  080,  iinder 
Eekme  (*»  the  DBme  of  the  chkpelry  is  there 
^It),  will  be  found  a  loDf;  extract  from  a  MS. 
EtBAj  on  Pariah  Kegisters,  written  t>T  the  Bev. 
George  Ashbr,  B.D.,  Premdent  of  St.  John's  Col- 
leee,  Cambridge.   Hr.  Aahbj  fell  into  this  absurd 


miaapprehensioo,  but  it  was  detected  hj  Dr.  Car- 
4«Ie  «  Bothley,  and  confuted  by  Lord  Went- 
worth   in  the  Oaieral  Eoeamg  Alt  in  1786,  and 


again  b^  Mr.  Bfaj,  afterwards  the  historisn  of 
Snrroj,  in  the  second  edition  of  his  Toitr. 

JoHS  QoDOH  Nichols. 

Id  the  burial  register  of  St  Maiy  Alderman- 
borj,  ]liondoa,  under  date  August  13, 1017, 
the  following: — "Mr.  Robert  Harland, 


writing  Irom  the  portion  that  precedes  it,  b.ut 
foRns  part  of  the  record.  I  am  conviiuwd  that 
whoever  made  tbe  addition  did  so  I)ecauH  he 
bond  that  Hr.  Harland  had  Ngned  each  page  of 
the  register  as  far  back  as  its  commencement  in 
1538,  exactly  Mveatj-nine  years,  but  without 
knowing,  or  taking  tbe  trouble  to  ascertain,  that 
down  to  about  1600  tbe  regiatet  was  the  tran- 
script ordered  in  16D8,  and  that  it  was  the  duty 
of  the  incumbent  and  churchwardens  to  attest  the 
accuracy  of  the  transcript.  Perhaps  this  will 
explain  the  cam  at  KnoBsiugton. 

JoBKFH  LEUtrsL  Chbsteb. 


-fiOMEOOTOCHtlBCH/'ETC.!  OLD  KHYME8. 

(4'"  S.  Ti.  396,  404,  663.) 

Hr.  JiJJKSOH  desires  to  see  the  old  rbjme  in 

tartauo.    It  has  just  been  communicated  to  me  bj 

kfiiend,  who  remembers  hearingit  in  his  youth: — 

**  Some  B°  to  chnrch  to  take  a  walk. 
Some  there  go  to  laugh  and  talk. 
Some  there  (^  tbeir  faults  to  cover, 
Otben  go  to  meet  a  lover. 
Some  there  go  to  sleep  and  nod. 
Bat  few  go  Uitn  lo  worship  God." 
i  an  tampt«d  to  add  here  some  other  quaint 


to  the  unseen  Ii 

The  lines  which  follow  this  anient  gentleman 
used  to  attribute  to  a  schoolmaster  named  Byrom, 
whose  pupirhe  had  been  in  his  younger  days  :— 
"  He  that  bays  land,  boys  many  stones  g 
He  that  buys  fla^h,  buys  many  tiones  j 
He  tbat  bnys  eggs,  buya  many  shells  i 
He  that  buys  good  ale,  seldom  huys  aught  else." 

(The  last  word  pronounced  as  if  written  in 
gloaaic  #&).  Tbe  writer  of  it  is  said  to  have  been 
a  liTing  example  of  its  truth. 

Barbers,  trom  Burchiello,  whose  utterly  nnin- 
telligible  -verses  are  models  of  classic  Ittdian, 
down  to  the  genial  anthoroftbe  "  Barber's  Shop," 
my  good  friend  Mr.  Richard  Wright  Procter,  who 
is  at  once  historian  and  laureate  of  the  cunning 
shavers,  have  often  been  ffm»  d'eiprit.  Amongst 
them  should  bo  classed  old  Jerry  Dawson,  whose 
shop  was  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Red  Bnnk.  He 
bit  upon  a  plan  for  keeping  his  customers  in 
good  humour  whilst  they  were  waiting  their  turn 
to  be  shaved  or  polled.  His  device  for  their 
amusement  was  to  write  scraps  ofpoehy,  which 
he  put  up  conspicuously  in  his  shop.  The  parti- 
cular period  of  the  year  often  frave  him  a  subject 
for  biB  rhymes.    Thus  for  Shrove  Tuesday  ho 

"Hake  pancakes  of  the  best  of  liatter, 
And  drink  good  ale  that  minute  after. 
And  keep  Shrove  Tuesday  like  a  mon. 
For  hungry  Lent  ia  coming  OD." 

The  old  barber  was,  unfortunately  for  himself, 
no  teetotaller,  and  ale  was  a  feature  in  his  Tersea, 
as  may  be  seen  by  this  on  Easter: — 
"  Eat  Easter  dumpHng  with  good  spice, 
And  drink  |n<od  ale  both  warm  and  nics  ; 
Elat  and  dtink  till  you've  got  red  faces. 
For  you're  not  sure  of  seeing  th'  races." 
Easter  be  pronounced  in  the  true  Lancashiie 
fashion,  whicn   in    glosaic  notation    would    be 
Aist'r." 

Another  rhyme  which  was  a  favourite  with  the 
Id  gentleman  is  the  following  quunt  reflection 
_a  the  relative  importance  of  the  lawyer,  the  phv- 
sidsn,  and  tbe  clergyman.  Tbe  structure  of  toe 
Terse  appears  to  show  that  it  must  have  been 
written  in  the  "golden days  of  goodQneen  Bess" 
or  soon  after  :— 

"  Iaw,  Physic,  and  Divinity, 
Being  in'dispote,  could  not  agree 
W'bidi  of  tbe  throe  should  have  the  superiority. 
**  Law  pleads  tw  dotb  preserre  man's  lands. 
And  all  tbdr  goods  from  ravenoiu  bands. 
Therefore  claims  he  to  bave  the  superiority. 
"The  doctor  neit,  with  redpea  for  health,    ',..,-.,,1,, 
Which  men  do  value  above  tbeir  weatthK-^  t Jt JV  1 1 
Therefore  claims  he  to  have  the  superiorly.  ^ 


100 


NOTES  AND  QUERIEa 


[4*S.VII.  Fbb.4.71. 


•■  Next  ooDMi  the  print  with  &oe  dewortt 
Wbo  of  men's  bouIb  lakea  care  and  cnre, 
Tliercrore  of  light  challeoge  bath  ha  to  IibtS  tba 

mperiorttj. 

•If  men  vonld  keep  the  golden  rale, 

They  need  not  bs  the  Uwyei^s  Ibol. 

If  men  would  keep  from  exoeea  and  rioti. 

The;  need  not  S-xd  OD  docCoia'  diet. 

If  men  nould  do  what  God  dotll  teach, 

They  need  not  mind  irbat  persona  pieaeU. 

But  if  men  both  knarea  and  Awt>  irilt  be. 

Why  Ihoy  may  be  oss-riddeo  by  alt  thiee."' 
This  reminda  me  of  a  grnva  deliftte  tbat  once 
took  place  in  a  discuBMoa  aodety  which  met  in 
Mancheater  about  1780,  aa  to  which-  vtm  tba 
greatest  benefactor  to  Booiety,  the  lawyer,  the 
pb^ndnn,  or  the  eoldier.  ACter  oil  the  proi  and 
can*  had  been  adduced  the  vote  wee  tslcen,  and 
peaceful  Manchaater,  the  rery  homo  of  the  "  fair 
'wfaile-'wingpd  peacemaker,"  Commerce,  solenmlj 
dedded  that  ol  tUe  tliEce  the  greatest  benefactor 

".  .  .  .  the  nd-eoat  bully  in  big  boota 
That  hides  the  march  of  men  from  OS."   ' 

WiLEiiM  E.  A.  AiOff. 
J^iuan  Stieet,  Strangaways.  


"  Some  go  to  charch  to  fetch  a  walk. 
Soma  go  to  church  to  have  a  talk, 
Some  go  to  church  to  meet  ■  friend, 
Some  go  there  an  hoar  to  spend. 
Some  go  there  to  hear  the  oemi. 
Some  go  there  to  sleep  in  pews,. 
And  yet,  'tie  veiy  etrange  and  odd) 
flow  few  s'  tlwn  to  wonhip  God." 
No  doubt,  as  is  tba  case  with  sdl  poimlar 
rhymes,  there  are  man^  Toriations.  WillLxiiIABD 
oblige  me  by  Btating-  if  his  Tersion  is  traditioual 
or  takea  &om  a  printed  copjP 

Stbpoeit  Jacxsoit. 

The  follo-ning  rersion  has  been  mpplied  to  me 
from  memory  as  having  appeared  in  a  Sniffolb 
newi^per  early  in  the  preaent  centiuj ; — 
"  Some  go  to  church  just  fi>r  a  walk. 
Some  go  there  to  scoff  and  talk. 
Some  go  then  to  meet  a  Mend, 
Some  go  (here  (hdr  time  to  ^>end. 
Some  go  there  lo  see  a  lover, 
Some  go  there  Ihcir  faulls  to  carer. 
Some  go  there  to  doze  and  nod. 
Hut  few  go  there  to  worebip  God." 

W.  D.  SimmKO. 


[E.  D.  gives  a  similar  TMsion  to  Mn.  Swretikq's 

with  the  exception  of  substituliog  "  laugh  "  and  "  seek" 
tor  "  scolf"  and  ■■  »ea  "  in  the  secoud  ami  fllth  lines. — Eu.'\ 


ORDEBS  OF  ENIQHTBOOD. 

(4*  S.  V.  300,  472,'  613,  MI,  607 :  tL  121,  44t 

674.) 

The  reply  of  J.  W.  at  p.  674  of  the  laat  Tolume 
of  "  N.  &  Q."  is  in  fact  nearly  an  admission  of  all 
Uiat  I har«  been mwnlaiaing.  "This^.nflerall" — 
Bubmiseion  to  t^e  Holy  See— "is  the  gist  of  the 
whole  matter,"  is  J.  W.'a  obsecration  (p.  675). 
Undoubtedly  8o_  If  the  Archbishop  of  Ctoiter- 
buiy  should  establish  an  aasoiuatJon  or  order,  for 
imrtBnce,  of  yisitors  of  the  Proteatant  sick  in  hia 
diocese,  it  would  probably  be  felt  indecent  if  Ilia 
Bishop  of  Natal  Dr.  Colanso,  or  Dr.  Nonuan 
Mflcleod,  or  any  other  respectable  Presbyterian 
minister,  clamed  a  right  to  fill  up  any  yacandes 
or  to  establidi  a  branch.  But  it  niu*t  be  reeol- 
lected  that  ^e  attsmpt  has  actually  been  made  hj- 
the  English  association  calling  itself  the  Eag^isa 
Langue  to  obtain  racognitioQ  at  Borne.  The  at- 
tempt failed,  of  course ;  but  an  asaodatiiiB  which 
did  such  a  tbing  is  disqualified  from  speaking 
against  Papal  jurisdiction.  I  ba^  once  more  t» 
draw  tiie  attention  of  J.  W.  and  bis  fiiendB  to  th« 
letters  of  I&STOBiorB-  and  ScBniiTOB  in  tiie  third 
volume  of  "  N.  &  Q."  1863.  So  far  &om  wiidiinK 
to  ignore  the  pretended  restoratian  of  a  so-called 
English  Langue  in  France,  I  have  already  referred 
to  tue  answer  made  by  Hinw&icus  in  that  volume, 
and  I  beg^  now  to  suggest  toJ.  W.  that  he.shoolA 
reply  to  that  able  wnter,  and  to  Sckdtatob,  and 
also  to  two  most  interesting  noteaby  J.  J.W.  ia 
volume  iv.  pp.  190  and  212,  who  tJieregiyea-detaito 
of  tbe  prooeedingB  at  Bome.  If  any  r^y  to  thoB» 
writers  is  possible,  let  it  be  made  at  onca>.  In  tlia 
maut  time  I  have  no  doubt,  aa  I  said,  that  most 
thinldng  parsons  will  hesitate  to  aoeept  X  W.'a 
authority.  The  whole  tbing  may  be  uluatratod^ 
but  not  exhausted,  by  a  short,  not  entirely  ima- 
ginary, qnlogue. 

Mr.  St;  John,  a  gsnOemnn  of  aneiaBt  descuit, 
with  large  family  connection  in  Europe,  waS(  th 
long  time  ago,  attacked  by  a  set  of  burglars,,  de- 
prived of  all  his  houses  and  lands,  and  had  to  nut 
lor  bis  life  to  bis  kinnnen  abroad.  The  law  o£ 
bis  own  coimtry  would  not  help  him,  for  the 
rogues  had  bribed  the  Bench,  and  the  King  took 
his  share.  So,  as  they  bad  no  use  for  churches, 
they^  blew  up  and  pulled  down  all  that  belonged 
to  him,  took  the  houses  and  money,  eat,  drtmk, 
and  were  merry.  And  it  must  be  owned  that, 
with  these  and  Other  little  pickings,  they  had  a 
very  fine  time  of  it.  But  not  long  (tfo  the  ie- 
BCendant  of  the  Mr.  St.  John  who  bad  been 
driven  ioto  exile  came  back  tO'  England;  not 
with  the  least  idea  of  Tecovettog  any  stolen  pro- 
perty, but  merely  to  settle  himself,  as  well  as  he 
could,  in  the  ootmtjy  of  hia  fathers,  aa  Mr.  St. 
John  of  SL  John.  One  day,  walking  about  his 
buunesa  in  London,  he  meets  en  exseedlngly  fine 


*8,Tn.  FxB.i.Tl.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


101 


rilemnn,  'Who  imiaBdiately  stops,  pats  Btm  on 
ifaouMer.  and  eaye,  "Old  fellow,  very  gM  to 
see  jou.  Here  we  are."  Mr.  St.  Johii,  perh&pa 
prejudiced  in  favour  of  knowing  your  friends, 
reqneste  to  be  informed  of  tbe  Tmrne  at  hie  soci- 
tibn  bat  nnexpected  mterlocutor.  "  Ob,"  Raj's 
the  Btrmger, "  aont  you  know  P  I'm  St  John  of 
St  Jobntoo  ;  took  the  name,  you  know.  Second 
nrftrain  in  the  Timet,  dont  yon  see,  deed  poll, 
and  an  that;  I,  and  dl  the  family.  We  ftre  one 
cuuceni  now."  Hr.  St.  John  expieeses  his  amaze- 
ment. He  was  not  awwre  that  there  was  any 
existing  brandi  of  his  family  in  Eagtend  besides 
hia  own.  "CHi,  yes,"  says  the  Stranger;  "  we 
are  a  real  bnmdh;  we  hnre  got  the  name,  and 
faftTe  token  the  arms,  and  are  always  known  as 
St  Johns,  and  have  set  up  new  houses,  and,  what 
I  am  son  yon  wiB  like  bejt,  we  have  made  a 
pedigree,  don't  yon  linow,  and  there  we  are  all  in 
It,  as  dasr  as  possible.  You  and  all  your  foreign 
connexion  are  there,  side  by  side  with  us." 
Upon  this  Hj.  St  John  au^^ts  thnt  the  Stranger 
ahoi^d  accompany  him  to  the  Hera]da'  College, 
that  these  statements  may  be  authenticated. 
"Haralda' College  P  Pooh  I  old  almanarfiB.  Yon 
can  gfo  if  yon  like,  not  I,  We  don't  mind  Sir 
Gorgeona  Tintach,  nor  the  Pope,  nor  anybody 
elae.  Depend  uptm  it,  my  dear  feltow,  if  s  only  a 
matter  of  Opinion.  Yon  call  yourself  St.  John, 
10  do  we.  no  one  here  knows  any  diJFerence ; 
and  as  we  have  taken  the  name  we  shall  stick  to 
H.  Qoodbye.  BememlieT  me  to  all  oui  kinsfolk 
^nt>ad." 

It  Tomaina  io  he  seen  whnt  Opinion  will  do  for 
tiie  new  Mr.  St  John. 

"Vb  vobia  qni  edificatla  monumcnta  ProphetArum : 
pttm  aulem  T«Btri  occicleruDt  illoa." 

D.  P. 
BCosrts  "LtiSgt,  Mslvem  WcIIb. 

I  have  read  with  great  interest  the  diacus^on 
which  has  been  goiag  on  for  some  time  about  this 
subject  in  "N.  &  Q."  and  also  in  the  Spcdatoj-— 
a  diacuHtun  which  was  carried  on  with  a  courtesy 
on  pne  side  that  made  the  absence  of  it  on  the 
other  rather  too  conspicuous.  The  suggestion  of 
HoinrKCutus  in  Ro.  157  seems  to  me  deserving 
of  the  highest  consideration,  end  well  worthy  the 
attention  of  the  conflicting  parties.  Tiie  English 
lisgne  have  at  all  events  the  credit  of  fulfllling 
to  the  best  of  'its  ability  the  duties  of  the  order, 
and  not  merely  forming  part  of  a  court  pageant 
(not  very  muclt  respectea),  as  I  have  seen  the 
"  Maltheser  IRitter  in  their  scarlet  coats  in 
Konicb.  I  woiild  offer  one  more  suggestion : 
&e  Queen  is  sovereign  of  ISalta;  what  if  she 
were  to  assume  the  protectorate  of  the  English 
laa^e  F  the  knights  would  then  at  court  wear 
fiteir  crosses  (1  believe  they  bare  every  right  to 
do  to  now);  fhe  order  would,  have  a  publicly 


recognised  status,  which  must  tend  to  its  advan- 
ti^;  and  as  the  knights  would  claim  no  prece- 
dence more  than  the  wearers  of  an  ordinBry  war 
medal,  while  the  rules  under  which  alone  -Qm 
order  can  be  conferred^  would  efFectuaJly  prevent 
any  but  gentlenieo  belonging  to  it,  the  court 
drele  womd  at  all  events  lose  nothing  by  thdr 
presence.  The  privilege  might  be  confined  to  tho 
"Ohevaliera  of  Justice."  Otwbk, 

Porth  yrAur,  CaniBrvon. 


BAfiDAKOU^  HASSACKE. 
(J'"  S.  vi.  626.) 

Ben  Fran^cos  d'Almeyda,  the  firit  viceroy  ef 
PortugUHse  India,  was  appointed  governor  t^  the 
Indies  in  1505.  He  sailed  from  Belem  in  March 
of  that  year,  wid  reoohed  the  coasts  of  Portugueaa 
India  in  the  month  of  October.  In  1S08,  after 
the  defeat  of  the  Portugaese  forces  in  a  naval 
engagement  before  Daboul,  Don  Alfonso  d'Albu- 
queraue  arrived  in  India  to  supersede  Almeydik 
The  latter,  burning  to  avenge  the  loss  of  his  vm. 
in  the  previously  named  naval  engagement,  re- 
fused to  yield  up  his  authoritv  until  he  had  chaa- 
tised  the  infideb.  After  in&icting  a  summary 
retribution  <at  the  inhabitants  of  Daboul,  he  en- 
connterad  bis  enemies  at  sea,  opposite  the  island 
of  Diu,  and  con^ete^  destroyed  titeir  fiaet.  Is 
November,  1609,  the  viotor  of  Diu  finally  quitted 
the  shores  on  which  hie  nunebad  becomeaterror 
and  his  veagoanoe  a  proverb.  Don  Pranjois  d'Al-  ■ 
mm<k  perished  in  March,  1610,  by  the  hand  of  ft 
Caffre  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope. 

The  "  barbarotts  massacre "  Mk.  Elem  refers 
to  Tcuc^  be  that  which  was  conducted  by  order  cf 
Alm^da  at  DebouL  His  proceediuge  tberOB 
have  been  thus  described : — 


"  AloHirdK  poutively  it(aa» 
Dnlil  be  riionld  bare  avenged 
<l«atrDCtion  of  (be  boOil*  fleet.     Being  suppoi 


dealh   I 


isobedienee  to  -tbc  rovul  mandato  by  several  leadin, 
ofRcere,  he  refmcd  lo  allow  Albunnerque  even  to  tak 
part  in  the  iottDdcd  expedition  (agunst  Daboul).'' 
There,  we  are  told— 

"once  on  tbotr,  by  the  order  of  tlie  merciless  victor,  s 


Slighter 


,    The 


o  the 


with  blood,  and  the  diatmcted  i 

cii«B  of  the  neiRhUourinE  monntmnB.  This  diagMCcTal 
«»Tie  had  a  roilaUe  conclusion ;  for  Almeyds,  onatds 
to  withdraw  bis  tnaope  from  their  horrible  employment, 
<MUieA  the  town  to  be  set  on  fire.  The  flames  extended 
rapidly  over  the  light  timber  roofe,  and  after  reflacing 
the  Btately  ci(v  to  a  pile  of  smoking  wood  -and  aahce, 
feached  the  harbour.  The  Tioliye  shippiag  w««  d&- 
stroj-ed  ;  the  Portugnese  vewels  wltb  dtfficullf  tteaptO, 
and  proceeded  to  tbe  (iutf  of  Cambay." 

He  £11^  up  fhe  measnie  of  hie  bnrbaiiliea  bf 
causing  his  priBDners  to  be  shut  up  in  lito  pnis 
veaaels  and  burnt  with  them. 

ihappy  I 


It  of  that  cr 


ajnitpi 


lOS 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4MS.yU.FcB.4,*71. 


If  the  maaaacie  occurred  about  the  ;ear 
1611,  Don  Alfonso  d' Albuquerque  waa  then  the 
Portuguese  soTemor-geDeral  of  locUa.  It  there- 
fore mi^ht  have  been  in  connectiou  with  the 
Bcquieition  of  Goa.  The  city  was  taken  bj  sur- 
prise in  the  earlT  part  of  ISIO,  recaptured  a  few 
months  later  by  Yusnf  Adil  Shah  in  nerson,  and 
finally  conquered  by  Albuquerque  at  uie  close  of 
the  same  year.  The  contest  was  prolouged  and 
aanguinan',  and  the  after-slaughter  must  have 
been  temflc,  since,  according  to  Sousa,  "  not  one 
Moor  was  left  alive  in  the  island."  (Port^ueit 
Atia,  i.  172.^  The  Hindoos  were  treated  Teiy 
difierently;  lor  Albuquerque  confirmed  them  in 
their  posaenions,  and  promoted  the  intermarriage 
of  their  women  with  the  Portuguese  br  band- 
some  dowries,  at  the  same  time  proving  his  con- 
fidence in  hia  new  subjects  by  emploving  them 
in  both  dxil  and  military  capacities.  Albuquerque 
died  at  Goa,  December  13, 1515. 

N,B.  ThedesignBtion"Moors"BeemafrequentIy 
applied  to  Arabian  and  African  Mohammedans,  in 
contradistinction  to  Moguls  and  Patans.  Bouaa 
speaks  of  them  as  "inhabitinr  from  Choul  (in 
the  Concan)  to  Cape  Comorin.  The  honour  of 
the  discover;  of  the  Cape  route  to  India  does  not, 
I  Tenture  to  submit,  belong  to  Vasco  da  Gama. 
It  was  Bartolomao  I>iaz,  ten  years  before  Vasco 
da  Oama'e  voyage  to  India,  who  passed  the  Cape 
without  knowing  it,  and  despite  the  murmnra  of 
his  crew,  proceeded  as  far  as  the  mouth  of  the 
Great  Fish  River.  Compelled  most  unwillingly 
to  return,  he  now  first  discovered  the  sonthera 
headland  of  the  African  continent;  and  reaching 
it  in  stormy  weather,  he  bestowed  on  it  the 
designation  of  "  Cabo  Tomientoso."  Diai  re- 
turned to  Lisbon  in  the  December  of  1487,  after  a 
Toyage  of  little  more  than  sixteen  months.  The 
ivay  to  India  was  now  open.  In  1497  Elmanuel, 
the  king  of  Portugal,  equip{>ed  a  fleet  of  four 
ships  for  the  purpose  of  rAching  India  by  a  pas- 
sage round  the  Cape,  and  gave  the  commana  of 
the  expedition  to  Vasco  da  Qama.  The  expedition 
euled  from  the  mouth  of  the  Tagus  on  July  8, 
1407,  having  in  aUiaO  men  on  board.  It  doubled 
the  Cape  on  November  SO,  and  coasting  the 
eastern  sea-board  of  Africa  as  far  north  as  Me- 
linda  (1st.  3°  S.},  it  sailed  under  the  guidance  of 
a  native  pilot  for  the  shores  of  India.  The  voy- 
age from  Melinda  to  the  Malabar  coast  occupied 
twenty-three  days;  and  the  tieet  anchored  before 
the  dty  of  Calicut  on  May  20,  1498.  Two  years 
and  nearly  two  months  elansd  between  the  date 
of  Da  Qama's  departure  and  his  return  to  Lisbon. 
The  Beeond  Porhiguose  fleet  to  the  Indies  was 
de^lcbed  in  the  year  succeeding  his  return, 
nnaer  the  oommand  of  Alvares  Cabral. 

CbABLES  NlILOB. 


KING  WILLIAM  III.'s  STIEBOPS  AND    OTHER 
REUCS  AT  CAREICKBLACCER,  CO.  ARMAGH- 

(4"-  8.  vi.  477.) 
A  query  having  appeared  in  your  Nnmber  of 
December  8  last  respecting  a  pur  of  slirraps  seen 
some  years  ago  in  the  possession  of  the  -  BeTi 
James  Steuart  Blacker,  lector  of  Kesdy,  county 
Armsgh,  it  maybe  interesting  to  state  that  these 
relics,  along  with  many  others  appertaining  to 
that  eventful  period,  at«  sdU  at  Carrickblacker, 
the  seat  of  the  BUcker  family,  in  the  county 
Armagh,  near  I'ortadown.  The  reverend  gentlfr- 
msn  was  family  executor  at  the  time  adverted  to, 
and  thus  was  in  possession  of  the  hdrlooms,  and 
these  amongst  them. 

The  stirrups,  however,  bear  evidence  in  them- 
selves of  an  earlier'date  than  the  Boyne  battle 
(1600),  and  as  being  the  property  of  an  earlier 
king  than  William  ILL,  viz.  Charles  I. ;  for  on 
the  interior  of  the  upper  part,  where  the  leather 
was  looped  on,  is  plamly  marked,  dotted  or  in- 
scribed, a  royal  crown,  with  the  cypher  C.  R.  and 
the  date  1626  beneath.  They  stand  eight  inches 
in  height,  with  a  breadthof  five-and-a-half  inches 
at  the  swell  for  the  foot.  On  the  outer  sides  a 
Bcallop-ahell  pattern  is  inscribed.  The  whola 
accoutrement  bears  a  darkbronte  colour  enlivened 
with  gold  welded  into  the  parts  where  the  shells 
occur,  or  are  marked  by  incised  lines.  That  they 
belonged  to  Charles  L,  however,  is  no  reason  that 
they  snould  not  have  been  worn  by  William  IIL, 
his  relative  and  descendant.  The  saddle-cloth  is 
also  at  Carrickblacker,  a  gorgeous  affair  of  crimson 
velvet,  superbly  embroidered  in  gold,  with  holster 
trimmings  complete.  The  saddle  itself  is  said  to 
be  in  the  posseseson  of  the  Marquis  of  Drogheda, 
and  without  any  stirrups  or  other  paraphernalia; 
How  they  became  separated  is  not  very  clear,  but 
probably  in  the  scramble  of  attached  attendanta 
desirous  to  secure  memorials  of  such  historic 
scenes  and  personages.  Most  of  those  at  Carrick- 
blacker came  from  an  ancestor,  Qeneral  Frederic 
Hamilton,  side-de-comp  to  King  William  III., 
with  estates  in  llpperary,  Londonderry,  and  other 
counties.  He  was  originally  of  Milbum,  in 
Lanarkshire,  and  called  a  property  near  Colenuna 
Milbum  after  it.  He  is  mentioned  by  Captain 
Parker  as  his  chief  patron  in  bis  interesting  and 
now  scarce  record  of  the  Irish  conflicts  at  that 
period,  and  also  the  Marlborough  wars  in  Queen 
Anne's  time. 

Amongst  other  items  traceable  to  this  source, 
kept  at  Carrickblacker,  are  King  William  IIL's 
gloves,  rather  rough  chamois  leather  gauntlets, 
ornamented  with  bWk  satin  and  gold  embroidery 
trimmings;  the  original  MS.  draft  of  the  brass 
money  proclamation,  with  William  IIL's  signa- 
ture, dated  July  10,  1690.  "  Given  at  our  camp 
at  Finghu."      N3.  Then    is  no   mention    of 


A^S.  Til.  Feb.  4, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


103 


"  vood«D  ehoea,"  but  ipecimeiu  of  the  bnse  coinaga 
ue  hung  ID  chiuna  lound  tha  frame.  Tha  fint 
pattut  toSirThomoa,  afterffards  Lord  Con  yugabj, 
whc  bound  up  King  William's  arm  when  wounded 
at  tie  Bojne.  The  handkerchief  itself  U  said  to 
be  b  tbe  posaesaion  of  the  Earl  of  EaBex,  a 
deacmdant :  also  a  bandsome  massive  cruet-atand, 
jpKMtted  bj  the  lung.  Lord  Eaaes  preaentad 
tha  muetaid-pot  to  the  present  Earl  of  Enniakil- 
len ;  h  is  the  aixe  of  a  amall  lankanl,  containing 
fuUj  a  pint,  and  when  filled  with  good  liquor, 
muat  be  drained  to  the  glorious  memorj  without 
drawing  breath,  in  order  to  obtain  "  the  freedom 
of  Fbroice  Court." 

But  to  eoatiDDe  tbe  list  of  hbtoric  coriouties 
at  Garriokblacker.  There  ia  tbe  celebrated  Derrj 
deed,  with  all  the  rignatorea  and  seals  of  the 
owners  of  propertj  deetcojed  in  tha  aiege  of 
1686-9,  dauuing  compensation  from  the  British 
Oovemment — we  are  sorry  to  sa^  yainl^  and 
without  aflect.  The  uamaa  of  fiumliea  still  em- 
itting and  possesHng  property  ate  eaal  j  traceable. 
Stone  balla  fired  at  Derry  when  meUl  was  ex- 

*" '       K  Bcrap  of  the  flagof  the  Inniakilling 

it  the  Boyne;  a  lai^  remnant  ia  adll  at 
dllcD  or  Florence  Court  A  chair  of  oak  made 
from  the  platform  on  top  of  the  cathedral  tower 
of  Derry,  on  which  cannon  was  mounted  and  fired 
during  ^e  siege.  Tha  old  form  of  the  cathedral 
ia  carved,  as  awo  the  walla  in  relief  on  tha  back. 
CoL  Hitchelbum'a  aaddle,  used  in  a  eortie  at  the 
aiege  befbra  thay  ate  their  horses.  Two  rapien, 
one  of  them  used  by  Qeneral  Hamilton  at  tha 
Boyne,  and  the  other  bv  Wm.  Blacker  at  Derry 
and  the  Boyne.  The  long-ehotted  gun  of  the 
Diamond  fight ;  the  gong  of  Ohumee ;  and  the 
laat  added  articles  to  this  curious  collection,  vit. 


not  presented  because  the  Dnke  of  Newcastle 
■would  not  allow  H.R.H.  to  land ;  and  laatly,  the 
Confederate  flag  of  the  celebrated  privateer  the 
Shenandoah,  which  is  said  to  hare  done  more 
destruction  and  mischief  than  the  much-abused 
Alabam*. 

The  walls  of  Carrick blacker  are  hong  with  some 
interesting  historio  portraits  of  the  WiUiamtte 
period.  Besides  the  well-known  ones  of  the  King 
and  Queen  Haty,  by  Eneller,  are  those  of  Duke 
Sehemberg  and  Da  Qinkle,  Earl  of  Athlone ;  a 
contemporary  picture  of  the  mege  of  Derry.  by 
Wyke;  General  Hamilton,  Ooremor  Walker, 
£c.  &0.  But,  quite  apart  from  this  period  so 
largely  illustrated,  there  ia  a  very  remarkable 
portrait  that  would  take  a  dissertation  to  itself — 
that  of  Sr  Wm.  Wallace,  tbe  celebrated  defender 
of  Scotland.  It  waa  brought  over  more  than  three 
hundred  yeare  ago  by  a  family  of  that  name,  and 
came  to  tha  present  proprietor  of  Carrickblacker 
with  the  remnant  oi  a  amall  proper^  bam  his 


grandmother,  who  had  received  it  in  the  same 
way  from  her  grandmother,  the  last  of  that  family 
of  the  name.  It  is  not  in  oil-colours,  but  in 
fresco  varnished  and  iDgeniously  removed  to  can- 
vass. In  individuality  and  grandeur  of  character 
it  quite  throws  into  shade  the  usual  conventional 
and  commonplace  portraits  of  this  hero,     Ahon. 


OtD  Sahsowh  Castle,  Isle  of  Wight  (4*  S. 
vi.  5C0.)— Lord  Conway  was  made  Captain  of  tha 
Isle  of  Wight,  Dec.  8,  1024;  Lord  Weaton  (sub- 
sequently Earl  of  Portland)  succeeded  him,  Feb. 
8,  I63I.  The  authority  for  these  statements  is 
Dugdale's  Saronagt,  where  a  reference  ia  given  to 
the  Patent  Rolla,  22  Jac.  I.,  part  16,  and  0  Car.  I., 
part  0,  respecUvely.  Portbiud  died  in  March, 
1036,  and  Isee  by  a  letter  of  F.  Brooke  of  April 
11  (State  Papers,  Charles  I.,  vol  cdxxzvi.),  tbal 
his  eldest  sou  Jerome,  second  Earl  of  Portland, 
was  hia  successor.  O. 

MorNT  CALViRT  (l"  S.  vi.  642 ;  viL  62.)  —  I 
am  competent  to  give  no  opinion  as  to  whether 
Calvary  was  a  mountain  or  not,  but  I  am  quite 
sure  that  Sozomen  does  nol  aay  it  was,  as  atated 
by  Mb.  Alex.  B.  M'U&ieoB,  To  establish  this 
point  the  Editor,  I  trust,  will  permit  me  to  give 
the  passage  in  the  original.  The  reference  ia 
right    The  words  are:  — 

Ql  fif  wi\v  rqr  innKiitiar  ti^omi  *EAAqMi,  fri 

varrii  imiiAi,  S«i  toXX^  X^I""'  ''*'  '^'*  rinar  im- 
rlapv^ay,  koI  fit  Eif»  tlyvfai  Bf^irtftr  trwifxfirra,  tit 
■ol   nr  ^olvtrai.  npiAoMrrtl  U  i>/pi{  aivra  tit  T^l 

Miif  tV  tiifiHuui  imirrpnaar  .*  nol  'Afpoltrqi  «i>' 

For  Uw  Graaki.  striTiDg  to  tbelt  utmoet,  bj  means  or 
perMCation,  to  gxliDgnUb  tbe  chnrdi  In  its  lobiicj,  con. 
eealed  that  place  under  a  haga  maand  of  earth,  and,  as 
LOW  appeals,  raised  (he  ground  lo  a  greater  height  than 
it  wu  before.  Aad  baring  drawn  a  fence  roand  the 
entire  aite  of  the  nvurrecCloD.  and  ■  the  place  of  a  skall ' 
(Calvary),  they  arranged  the  anrTaM^  aad  erected  upon  it 
a  temple  to  Tenoa,  in  which  ttaej  placed  her  itatoe. 

Not  a  word,  as  Mr.  M'Obisob  will  see,  of  aay 
motmtain,  or  of  the  slightest  acclivity.  The  very 
opposite ;  for  prior  to  these  operations  the  aurfaca 
was  Imctr  (Sa6^tpiiy)  than  it  was  after.  So  from 
this  account  the  natural  inference  muat  be,  that 
the  mount  was  not  real  but  arti/icial.  Homer 
uses  the  kindred  word  aopiwr  for  the  top  of  a 
mountain— Oix^iiToia  tofiirmr  (11.  a.  167)— whence 
it  is  not  improbable  that  this  may  have  given  rise 
to  the  notion  of  Calvary  being  a  mount.    There  ia 


•  By  order  of  the  Emperor  Hadrian  towarda  the  latur 
end  of  hii  raign — soniewhere  atiODt  *.o.  188— irhen  lie 
built  Iba  Roman  city  of  ^lia  CapUoUna  on  the  fo 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[♦^S-VII.  Fbb.4,71. 


no  anthotitf  for  it  in  any  of  tbe  wntiags  of  tbe 
New  Testament  at  tbe  eiirlieT  fathers.  As  to  the 
teatimoDj  of  St.  Cyril,  it  is  valuelea*.  He  lived 
and  wrote  long  aftei  tbe  trauABction  lelated  bp 


I  mi^  be  permitted  to  mention  that  I  have 

? noted  from  Satding,  the  best  edition  of  the 
Ireek  ecclesiastical  historiana. 

Eduukii  Tew,  M.A. 

GoD-wnt  SwiPi  (4»  a  T.  66,  18*,  159,  211, 
306,  410.)— Mr.  SwiTTB'a  family  pedigree  VMf 
be  quite -correct,  but  no  one  who  is  fanuliar  'wiui 

Sligrees  "certified  "  (not  "verified '")  as  "  taken 
m  the  records  of  hia  offioe"  under  the  iainA 
and  seal  of  office  of  Sir  William  Betham,  would 
think  of  pladng  implicit  reliance  on  them  because 
they  were  so  "  certified."  I  regret  to  say  that  I 
know  pedigroee  "-which  in  ewne  very  important 
reepecte  ore  pore  inventions,  and  were,  notwith- 
standing; proofs  to  the  contrary  in  bis  office,  so 
certified.  In  one  instaoce  the  very  arms  recorded 
ware  altered  without  any  reason  whAtever.  These 
are  grave  charges,  bat  unfortunately  they  are 
true.  If  the  late  Ur.  Godwin  Swift  was  "  He 
jure  Vifconnt  OarliDgford,"  bow  did  it  happen 
that  his  right  waa  never  proved  before  the  Com- 
mittee of  Privileges  P  It  le  really  preooateroue  to 
c^  a  mere  pretender  to  an  extinct  title  the  nght- 
ful  peer  because,  without  a  Bhudow  of  right,  lie 
pertinadouBly  assumed  and  claimed  the  trUe. 

T.  8.  TS.. 

DBsanrBkvm  ov  Bishop  Bebbll  {4*  S.  v.  Sll' 
691 ;  vi.  188.)— Isabella  BedeU,  daughter  of  the 
Rev.  "Williani  Bedell,  was  twice  married.  By  her 
first  hnaband,  Daniel  French,  she  had  a  daughter, 
Eleanor  French,  who  married  John  Stanford,  Esq. 
of  0am,  county  Cavan  (bom  1680,  entered  Trin, 
Coll-BukNov.  37,1701).  She  married,  aecondly, 
Tuke  Stanford  (who  died  in  1733),  hia  firet  wife. 
Tuke  Stanford  married,  eecoodly,  Anne  Heccle- 
field,  and  by  her  bad  (with  other  isaue)  John, 
who  married  Eleanor  French  (m  above.)  Hie 
bead  master  of  fieanmaris  Grammar  School  is  tbe 
Bev.  William  BedeU  Btnnford,  M.A.,  of  BaUiol 
College,  Oxon,great-great>gi«ndson  of  John  Stan- 
ford and  Eleanor  Frencb.  Y.  S.  il. 

"Dun"  A9  A  LocAi,  Trkfii  (4""  S.  vi.  153, 
238,  656.)— There  is  no  reason  to  suppose  that 
the  Celtic  ddH  is  e^rmotoncally  connected  with 
toicn,  A.-S.  Ian.  The  literal  meaning  of  the  Utter 
is  an  "  enclosed  place,"  from  tynan,  to  encloee ; 
whereoa  dim  is  properly  a  hDl,  and  may  be  derived 


.      iu.T..  \j.  ivunjiDd  HMja   LUB  ruoL  ui  auii  is  tue 

Knit  dutid,  but  it  would  1m  quite  u  rsasenable 
arive  it  from  the  Chinese  tmt,  a  "  hillock." 
E.  S.  Chabitook. 


RioBAVti)  Tbbeiok,  Bihhop  of  Lofuott  1734- 
1777  (4'"  S.  vi.  6«9.)— He  wae  the  eldest  soi  ot 
Samuel  Terrick,  rector  of  W^eldrake,  and  esnoo- 
rendentiai^  of  Y-orit,  by  Ann,  widow  ofRathiniel 
ArlnA,  Esq.,  of  Knedlington,  county  Tork,  and 
daughter  of  John  Gibson,  Esq.  of  Welburn,  in 
die  same  connty.  He  waa  naptiaed  in  York 
MniBter  July  20^  1710.  His  vrife  waa  TAitba, 
daaghter  of  William  Stwnfortb,  rector  of  fymon-. 
bnrne,  county  Northumberland  (eldflot  son  of  Di, 
William  Stainforth,  canon  of  York),  'byJ'taBceB, 
flenghter  of  George  Prackett,  Esq.,  recorder  tk 

York.  BOB^T  H.  SCAIPE. 

The  Moanl,  York. 

The  arma  of  Tenick,  as  quartered  on  Lord 
Harrowliy's  banner  in  St.  George's  Chapel,  are 
those  of  the  Tyrwhit  family,  with  the  addition  of 
a  plain  bordure  argent.  Eduditd  M.  Botlk. 

Rock  Wood,  Torqoay. 

Br.  Terrick  ia  one  of  those  prelates  of  wliom 
Dean  >ni"»(i|i,  in  Lis  AsmaU  of  &.  I'taiTs,  .has 
written :  — 

"  There  iras  then  ■  rapd  saecCHiDa  «f  decent  prdatu^ 
who  no  doubt  djacban^  tbeir  hinclioDt  with  quiet 
dignity,  and  lived  tbetr  blameleaa  Utm  in  respect  and  in 

The  following  passage,  extracted  from  Addit. 
M3S.  |;5847,  p.  404)  in  the  Brit.  Museum,  in  which 
the  bishop  figures,  may  interest  the  raadeia  cf 
"N.  &Q/'  — 


pole)  paid  Tor  an  hour  one  Sundn'aneniaao,  while  I  we* 
with  biiD,  about  ten  yean  ago.  it  was  when  tbe  rnnut 
Bl^op  of  LoudoD  waa  Bishop  or  PcterboTDDgh  and  tfam 
minister  of  Twiokenbani.  The  viirit  was  to  a  Jew,  whore 
WMaBomanOalbdicfenily.ttaeBiefaapofPetcttetMigb, 
■nd  wme  Diwantcn.  I  reuMmber  not  tbe  dbdim.  but 
this  I  remember  because  it  aCrnck  me.  The  bisbop  poa- 
albly  mijtlit  have  asBumed  some  airg  which  Mr.  TValpola 
might  think  aid  not  become  one  wlio  waa  a  lord  only  by 
aoddeut,  and  not  bv  birtb  or  creation.  In  oidn,  tbere- 
ff«e,  to  Iowa-  and  hasble  tbe  )ir)de  aC  Out  nnlata,  who 
liaa  enoogh  of  it  about  bim,  I  remembar  Mr,  Walpcde  told 
me,  onbia  retDtn,  for  Ittidnot  attend  him,  that  be  called 
bim  ftequently  Mr.  and  Dr.  Terrick,  in  order  (o  mor- 
tify bim.  Snrelv  this  waa  not  ripbt  or  proper.  The  tawi 
of  tbe  land  and  custom  unalterable  have  fixed  Mdi  and 
snoh  titles  to  sucb  and  anob  digDitiea  and  office*;  and 
whoever  diaregaida  tham,  acts  like  a  olown  «nd  impro- 
periy.  I  pmnme  no  one  loves  titles  better  than  bimsell^ 
as  will  be  evident  to  any  one  who  looks  over  the  Dttcrip- 
tim  of  the  niln  of  Strmfbeny  lliU,  Where  ia  a  most 
falsome  enumerstion,  on  every  oocasion,  af  tie  meat 
minnte  titles  of  all  the  Walpole  family  and  Its  moat  dis- 
tant alliances.  It  would  have  been  tbougbt  coarae  un- 
bred hehavionr  in  Bishop  Tenick  to  have  addressed  Lai^ 
Walpole  without  the  tide  of  Ladrsbip.  To  judge  impar- 
tiallf  therefore,  to  omit  Eiving  the  due  title  to  a  bidiop 
canaot  be  jaatiSed  in  any  light." 

RF.  T. 

Teri  (S*  S.^wMim;  4"  S.  vl461 ;  vii.  22.)— 
A  note  signed  with  a  ilaod  induces  me  to  eay  a 
word  or  two  on  thia  subject. 

Tlie  whole  queation  was  debated  between  Ub. 


*l*a.TIL.FBB.:4,7Ll 


HOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


105 


WooDWAED  aod  mjaelf  in  coiMeq.ueiice  of  ftqueiy. 
by  Ma,  Datibmh,  which  apmaw  on  p.  D&  of 
voLix.  in  the  third  seiiw  o£"^W.  &  Q."  JTj  reply 
to  at  p.  400.  Mb.  WooDWiiED'a  at  p.  478  of  that 
Toltme.  The  remaiaiug  repliea  by  BIr.  Woqd- 
"W-ixt  and  mnelfmll  be  found  in  voL  xj.,  Jao. — 
June,  1867.  Mb.  Woodwabd  stated  his  case  vith 
great  force ;  I  did  my  beat  to  state  mine.  I  have 
not  ctanfted  my  opinion;  I  hare  no  reason  to 
aup^oK  that  Mr  Woobwabi)  hu  changed  hie. 
I  think  it  might  save  "  Hand  "  aotne  trouble  if  he 
would  leikd  botli  udes  at  the  leferences  which  1 
have  supplied.  It  would  be  a  waate  of  his  time 
to  go  over  tha  same  around,  unlaw  be  can  give 
wme  new  Uct^  on,  aitfier  Tiew,  ot  on  both, 

D.P. 

StauiM  L(ids*.llalram  WdU. 

WiBSiMB  or  iNPiirre  {4*  S.  v.  48ft)— A  bill 
was  filed  in  ebancOTy  In  ftrfand,  May  Sff,  1679, 
V  Ed*tBd  VilliBni,  Esq.,  aoi  Catherine  his  wife 
(the  only  child  and  heir  of  John  Fitigerold,  Esq., 
rf  t*B  Decies^'co.  Wsterford),  Rgainst  Biohsd 
Barl  of  Tyrone,  nnele  of  Mre-VaHera.  The  hill 
states  that  Xt.  and  Mrs.  Tilliers  had  been  mar^ 
ried  in  the  pnc«Hng  monft  of  Wiuch.  The  eart 
answered  the  bill,  and  stated  that  he  admitted 
the  plaintiffl)  were  manied  as  stated— 

"dt  facia  udmnidt  jun,  fbr  on  the  9lh  Mir,,!!;?!),  the 
plumtff  Cstherfna  was  ]«wfiilly  married,  'by  Gilbert 
Arthbiahop  of  Cintetbory,  to  John  Poim',  thwi  -E«qui«,' 
and  now  'ViKtraat  Detdee,'  the  ddm  aan  vaA  hetr- 
^^areatot  tbu  defkndoot'.  tbn  Mnfftluii  abeiU  Iu^h 
jnn  old,  ead  John  Powet  beiag  about  j»n  oc  abeoA 
ajAt  yean  aid.  That  ah*  cohabited  witti  Jolio  Power, 
iiibed  her  name  and  took  her  place  as  YiMouatea 
imjl  alM  Stole  away  daodCBtitiely  out  of  ttM 
Uie  Baj'l  of  Angleny,  gDndfathar  ofVIwonot 

I  hare  no  note  of  tbe  decre»  in  Hiiesuit,  but  I 
presume  the  second  marriage  was  hrid  good,  and 
of  anuae  the  former  one  iuvalid :  for  I  see  in  the 
Peerage  that  by  Mr.  Villiera  (Brigadier- General 
the  aaa.  Bdward  Tilliei^  elder  son  and  heir- 
Wpaient  of  Geoi^,  fourth  Yiscount  Graudison) 
Catherine  had  (with  other  iwae)  JtAin,  fifdt 
viscotint^  cnated  Earl  of  GnndiMn.      Y.  S.  M. 

LocA£  TonuTAiCKEris  (4"*  S.  yi.  438,  66D.)  — 
To  the  list  must  be  added  Smithfield,  by  the- 
dtiiene  on  Snhirday  afternoons. 

Jaues  GmiBBi:, 

51,  HIU  Street.  Fedtham,  3.E. 

Shard  or.  ^axh  (4*  S.  vi.  324,  S87,  SSL)— 
U  some  parts  of  tha  conntry,  to  my  own  peraanal 
knowledge,  Aard  or  aAhth  ie  used  as  a  tenn  deaig- 
Dating  cow-dung  only.  In  tbe  north-east  district 
of  Aberdeenshire,  my  native  ia>unty,.it  la  one  of 
tile  most  familiar  provincialisms  among  the  aiiTi- 
cultural  population ;  but  it  is  never  em[doyea  to 
dtngnate  hoiesi,  sheep,  pg,  or,  in  fact,  any  kind 
at  dung  sttve  that  of  cows,  oxen,  &c.    An  indi- 


vidual who  has  donned  any  very  smart  or  gay 
article  □£  apparel  is  often  addressed  in  a  haotenng 
way,  thus:  •'  You  cast  a  dash,  at  a  distance,  like 
Aam  on  a  len  rig  (ridge)."  A,  Paxerbom. 

Baraeley,  Torks, 

The  "  vulenr  word  "  at  which  Stspkbh  Jaceboit 
hints  in  a  foot-note  u  much  more  likely  to  be 
connected  with  «Aoot.  In  Lineelnehiie'  a  cow 
with  dianhcea  is  said  to  be  "shoeting."  Cow- 
aAorda  ate  here  called  ^'caeaons"  (castings)  {  and 
"A  primrose  in  a  cseson"  is  a: proverb  anawmng 
to  "  A  jewel  of  gold  in  a  swine  a  snout."  In  Mr. 
Peacock's  Bolph  Skirtaugh  we  find,  a  former's 
sens  stacking  (UHCfw  fbr  winter  fuel,  in.  accordance 
with  an  old  proTerb  reacting  fuel  and  soap, 
wh&h,  a»HiL  JACKSoiraaj^  "  I  oan  only  bint  at." 
J.  T.  F. 

Pabodito  (4'''  S.  TL  476;  riL  16.)— I  do  not 
know  if  the  Book  of  Ballada,  edited  by  Bon 
Qnultier,  published  bj  Orrft  Uo.,  Id46,  w«uld 
nut  W.  G-.  ft  p.  p. 

There  wa»  a  eapiW  pwody  on  Colraidge'a 
ChntbAil  puhliebed'  about  tfairiy-Sve  yean  ag» 
in  the  Bneijebmadia  ^  Atieethle  and  Wit.  It 
commenced,  I  think,  an  I  write  entirely  from  me- 
mory, wilh — 

"  Tis  ten  o'clock  by  the  eaetle  clock,"  Ste. 

"-TUUn  o'cloek  by  tbahaion.'a  dock,"  Jkf. 
Who  was  the  author  ?  A.  J.  DimxiH, 

The  PAT^oirmic  "-mrr"  iw  NmtTH-EHSUSB 
Pu.ce-Name9  (4"'  S.  V.  &59j  vi.  61,  120,  308, 
418,  SCO,  STO.)— I  think  tin  fidlowing  instance,. 
taken  iiram  deeds  of  tha  reign  of  Edwaid  III. 
relating  to  the  same  fkmily  and  snbjeot,  go  &{  to 
prove  tbe  correctness  of  Mb.  ATKuraoH  a  state- 
ment "  that  the  stroke  over  the  vuwel  denoting 
the  omission  of  n  is  often  omitted  by  old  scribes, 
and  not  tbe  least  frequently  in  namea  iuTolving- 
tile  element  -tny."  A  name  is  thus  written  vari- 
ously: "de  Flomyngwold,  de  Homingwold,  de 
Homin^wold  sivo  llomiwold,  de  Homiwold." 
Thflie  IS  no  gtroke  to  deodte  the  omieeion  of  tho 
n  OP  I/,  although  the  nnme  ie  materially  altered, 
T.  C.  G.  H. 

"His  owv  opiniok  wab  ku  law"  (i'"  S.  id. 
271,  355,  562.)— With  great  respect  for  Dr.  Tait 
Ravaoe,  whose  papers  have  always  interest  fbr 
me,  I  submit  that  it  ie  widely  different  to  say  of  a 

Eerson  that  his  own  opiniua  ie  hie  law,  and  that 
e  "is  a  law  unto  himself."  As  I  interpret  the 
expreesionc,  the  former  conveys  censure,  Ihe  lattei 
commendalion.    The  quotation  from  Juvenal,*  as 


a  nxonious  hiuhaad.     Thj*, 


*Jav.Ti.£n.  TtnUngBageoTaidl-willfdin 
•cennn  to  her  nuaillantniaiu  nxonious  hiuhaad 
freai  the  Anth^ogif,  has  eoKia  ruamblaeaa ;  -^-y  . 

rurl)  7ip  oi^Sif  dta  *A.)*  V  A<itA*i^C)C)Q  IC 
A  womm'i  wit  U  bonodad  by  her  wUL  O 


106 


NOTES  AND  QUERIEa' 


[4'»S.Tn.  FeB.4,71. 


applied  to  thoae  from  Sbakespenre  nod  Evagriui, 
is  Ktminbly  to  the  point ;  not  ao  that  from  the 
Elhiet.    Ab  b  psrallel  to  this  one,  I  think,  might 

fairly  be  given  Komaiis  ii,  14 ;  — 

cErit  ti6iu>r  nil  tx""'!/  i^ifHi  tlai  njfioi " 

Edmund  Tew,  M.A. 

P.S.  In  the  character  of  the  Emperor  MauriciuB, 

as  given  bj  Evagriua  (lib.  ti.  i.),  we  hsTe  a 

splendid  example  of  the  tynixerlii  :=  the  num  who 

is  "  a  law  mito  himaelf."    He  saya, — 

'EirroiSajLK  ti  Koahv  d^ic  ir  t^  mifiari,  i\Xi  yip  jtal 

ngA  abroKpirvp  ivrttt  ytrifttvojf  T^jr  filf  Aj^AsKpaTrfar 
tAv  waSar  4k  t^i  olielat  iitrtiKirnri  •^v^t '  ipurroitpo- 
Ttiar  a  iv  Toh  iaurav  \ojur/ioi%  ■anumro'd^rcir,  {*»' 
ifftT^s  S.yatLHa   laurbii  vaftirxrrc,  vf))t  (il^tfff»  /mroi- 

Hmceforth  he  made  It  bis  boslDMi  not  oalj  to  adorn 
YAa  penoa,  bat  more  eBpeoullj  bis  mind,  vlth  regal  di<- 
nltiea.  For  he  alose,  of  all  nho  hid  yet  worn  the  purple, 
Btrore  rigorooslv  to  rule  himself;  «nd  as  became  hi»  liigb 
position,  wbile  bRaisbiog  from  hii  mind  all  evil  iffeo- 
tioDB,  to  Bcbool  himself  in  every  virtne,  and  thai  to  h«- 
eome  a  liviBg  ezamide  for  the  Imitation  of  hia  sulyects. 

AuBOBA  BoBBALia  (4*  S.  Ti.  406.)— The  fol- 
lowing narration  occurs  among  "Prodigies  in  the 
HeaTens,"  in  a  work  entitled ; — 

"Mirabilia  Anans  Secondusi  or,  a  Second  Year  of 
Prodigies;  being  a  true  and  impartial  Collection  of  many 
slisnge  Siongs  and  AFFAHtTions  irhich  have  tbie  lost 
yeiir  been  seen  in  tbe  Heavens,  and  in  the  £arth,  and  in 
the  Wfllers,"  4to,  Printed  in  the  Tear  166S. 
«  Tht  HtattHt  all  on  Fire. 

»  At  Lewes  in  SuBsex,  Jane  16, 1ES1,  abont  three  of  the 
clock  In  tbe  morning  divers  persons  observing  a  more  than 
ordiBsrv  light,  being  then  in  their  beds,  preaenlly  ro«e; 
and  looking  out,  they  perceived  the  whole  visible  hemi- 
sphere on  every  aide  to  be  aa  it  were  on  fire,  tbe  colour 
whereof  eeemed  to  be  more  inclining  to  a  blood-rad  than 
the  ordinary  flame  colonr. 

"At  tbe  same  time  also,  at  a  (own  called  Bawcomb, 
alraat  twelve  or  fourteen  milea  from  Lewes,  a  person  of 

Snality,  being  in  bed,  perceived  so  creat  a  light  ia  his 
liamber  that  he  verily  thought  his  bama  and  out- 
hODeee  had  been  on  Are;  but  when  he  arose  and  looked 
forth,  he  aaw,  as  he  conceived,  the  heavens  on  fire,  in  tbe 
same  dreadful  manner  as  la  before  eipressod.  This  Is 
attested  l)y  eye-witnesses  In  both  places,  and  a  thing  ft»- 
qoently  and  commooljr  spoken  of  In  those  parts." 

WnxiAM  Bates. 
Birmingham. 

LoED  BrBOH's  "EifOLiBH  Bards,"  etc.  (4"'  S. 
vi.  368,  449,  460,  654;  vii.  23.) -I  am  quite 
cognizant  of  the  sentence  quoted  by  Mb.  J.  A. 
PiCTOH,  but  it  does  not  alter  my  opinion  of  Mont- 
gomery a  WoHderer  of  Smizerland,  and  of  the 
ws^ce  of  the  Edmbwgh  reviewer'a  critiqae. 
Byron's  dMa  on  poeta  are  of  small  value.  He 
found  tbe  Faery  Quern  of  Spenser  very  dull.  Ho 
eaid  to  Leigh  Hunt,  "  Take  him  away  I  I  find 
nothing  in  lim."    Thia  was  aaid  on  returning  to 


Hnnt  that  immortal  allegory.  In  one  of  Byron's 
note.s  to  2>o»  Juan  we  find  "  Cowpsr  was  an 
amiable  man,  but  na  poet."  Byron  blew  hot  oi 
cold,  aa  it  auited  hia  bumour.  The  first  edition 
of  Simini  was  "  a  retUty  good  poem."  Afterwards 
he  discovered  that  "never  were  ao  many  fine 
thinra  spoilt  as  in  Simini; "  and,  aa  a  climax,  he 
could  write — 

"O  Gemini  1 

What  a  nimlni  pimint 

Story  of  Riminf!" 

Many  of  Byron's  "  neat  guna "  are  now  held 
in  slignt  esteem,  while  other  writers  that  he 
bespattered  with  acurrility,  particularly  Coleridge, 
Wordsworth,  and  Sonthey,  have  risen  in  public 
estimation.  "  Stupid  "  Qrahame,  too,  is  an  ia- 
atance  of  the  latter  class.  I  know  no  modem 
poem  more  truly  beautiful  than  The  SabbatA. 
It  well  merits  the  pruaes  bestowed  upon  it  bj 
the  late  Professor  Wilson.  It  is  very  popular  ia 
Scotland. 

Mb.  Picion  says  7%«  C^turch  and  Warmiitff- 
pan  "  was  not  a  tract"  I  can  merely  aay  that 
the  onl^  copy  I  .ever  saw  was  an  8to  painphlet. 
It  was  m  the  haikdaof  a  bookseller  of  the  "Row," 
who  has  retired  from  busiaeas.  I  called  it  a 
trad  becauae  it  had  hardly  pagea  enough  to  be 
dignified  with  the  name  of  pamphlet.  Perbws 
my  tract  was  Mb.  PKnoK'e  "  BurreptitJoua  edi- 
tion " :  I  believe  it  was  so. 

I  beg  to  assure  Mb.  Pictor  that  I  am  a  Tery 
great  admirer  of  "  tbe  real  KCoutgomery,"  na 
Wilson  once  called  him ;  but  my  admiration  of 
Tht  World  be/ore  the  Ihod  and  The  PeUean 
Iilmtd  does  not  blind  me  to  the  imperfections  of 
the  Wanderer.  I  saw  them  long  before  I  knew 
Switzerland,  and  with  my  present  acquaintance 
with  Helvetia  I  see  still  more  the  puerile  absur- 
dities of  Montgomery's  "  wandeiings." 

Jakbb  Hbhbt  Bixon. 

Iiansaiine. 

PUKHINO  AND  jBSrDta  ON  NaUBS  (i'^  S.  TI.  364, 

681.)— CaiEF  Ebuixb  has  spoilt  the  puns  which 
be  admires  by  revernng  the  apeakers.  Sit  Wil- 
liam Dawes,  Archbiahop  of  York,  was  lamentinr 
that  the  clergy  who  visited  him  would  not  find 
things  in  such  good  order  aa  in  tbe  time  of  his 
beloved  Mar^,  "  She  was,  indeed,  mare  pac^ 
CMTn,"  to  which  a  curate  rejoined — "  True,  my 
lord,  but  she  was  mare  mortimm  first" 

In  1715  waa  a  total  eclipse  of  the  sun,  followed 
in  a  fortnight  by  an  eclipse  of  the  moon.  A  lady 
asked  his  grace  if  he  bad  seen  the  eclipse  of  tha 
moon.  "No,"  said  be,  "mj  chapWn  aaw  that; 
/  aaw  the  eclipse  of  the  sun.^'  W.  G. 

Has  not  Ohibf  Ervinb  taken  tbe  point  out  of 
this  story  by  inverting  its  details  ?  I  have  always 


heard  it  thi 

"  Sir  William  Dawss,  ArchUshop  of  Totk,  ' 
rand  of  a  pnn.    Hia  clergy  diaing  with  him  for 


I*S.VILF«B.*,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


tim  iftcr  ha  bad  hat  hii  lidj,  ha  lold  them  ha  fund 
iht^  did  not  find  tbiugi  In  so  good  order  u  the}'  used  to 
b«  II  the  time  of  poor  Uiry ;  and,  looking  extremelj 
•orriwrnl,  added  with  a  deep  »iBh, '  the  w»»>  indeed,  more 
paeifimm.'  A  enrat^^  irho  pretty 
had  leen,  said,  'Ava,  my  lord,  bal 
tiMM  Int.'  "—Sea  Hark  Lemoa'a  Jt 

Th«  pan 
think,  by  the  following  :- 

"  Admiral  UnneaD's  addreaa  to  the  officem  who  came 
m  board  faia  ^ip  (br  inttTnctions  pTevioui  la  the  engage- 
t  with  Admiral  de  .Winter  wu  b«tii  laconic  and 


Jtil  Boat,  No.  1036. 

n  the  name  of  'Winter  is  equaUed,  I 


0  Winli 


"—Ibid.  Ha.  1265. 


a  good 

W.  Spasbow  Simpson. 

The  beat  pnn  I  erer  heard  was  made  on  Lord 
Arthur  Hill,  one  of  Wellington's  ai^ei  at  Water- 
loo. He  was  nmownad  for  hia  convemational 
powers.  After  a  dinner  party,  at  which  he  had 
ahone  with  UDuanal  brilliancj.  Mine  one  remarked 
«f  him,  "  It  will  be  a  great  pity  when  hie  mother 
di«a."  "  WhyP  "  "  Because  now  he  ia  a  plea- 
atmt  Hill ;  then  he  will  be  Baron  Sandys." 

A  nmilar  play  on  namea  was  the  followinK :  — 
Mr.  Falls,  a  weU>knowii  Irish  sportaman,  bap- 
peoed  nnfortonataly  one  day  to  ride  down  a 
lUHUid.  The  irasdhle  but  witty  master  attacked 
him  in  no  tb^  measored  laoBuage.  "  Sir,"  was 
the  reply,  "I'd  have  you  recollect  that  I  am  Mr. 
Falls  of  Dungannon.''  The  answer  was  ready  :  "I 
dm't  care  if  you  were  the  Falls  of  Niagara;  you 
•ha'n't  ride  oyer  my  hounds." 

FiTZ  RlCHUtS. 

Saabbbitcx  Ccstom  (4'"  S.  vi.  477.) — Your 
corrMpoDdent  A.  S.  asks  if  any  reader  of  "N,&Q." 
can  t&row  any  light  upon  the  history  or  exist' 
enoe  of  coatoms  similar  to  that  observed  at  Saar- 
briickP  I  have  rtad  and  heard  of  such  cuetoms, 
but  I  must  confesa  that  I  have  never  previously 
heard  of  an  application  of  the  protecting  influence 
of  tree  booghs  to  rulway  carriages.  The  "  march 
of  idencA    must  account  for  this. 

To  hang  branches  by  the  doors  of  houses  ia  an 
ancient  and  waa  a  popular  custom.  Thus  I  read 
at  p.  133  of  a  sm^  anonymous  book  entitled  A 
eiwri  Account  of  lh«  CUy  end  Chit  of  lAchJiidd 
la  Khach  it  addta  a  Short  Account  of  tht  Callicdrai, 
1831:— 

■It  waa  I 


cnatom  on  Aainrndon  Day  for  the  clergyman 


■idesmen,  and  followed 


cbildren  bear- 


le  goipel  for  the  day,  after  which 
Aey  ware  regaled  with  cakea  and  ale  ;  during  tha  cera- 
mmy  tha  door  of  ereiy  boose  wu  decorated  with  an  aim 
boo^,"  &c  Ac. 

Further:  I  am  informed  that  in  the  villa^ 
lA  Lejland,  I^ncashire  (which  villa^  ipve*  its 
name  to  the  hundred  in  which  it  is  located), 
ih«e  pivrailed  a  cnatom  (my  informant  helievea 


on  Hay  Day)  of  the  following  nature :— The  viU 
tagers  would  hang  by  the  doors  of  the  better 
known  or  more  notorious  inhabitants  houghs  of 
trees,  the  different  shrubs  or  trees  having  varied 
^gnifications,  and  speakinK  as  to  the  popular  re- 
pute, good  or  evil,  of  the  dweller  tu  the  tenement 
so  decorated.  This  was  nearly  half  a  century 
ago,  and  I  ^ould  be  glad  to  learn — 

1.  Whether  such  practice  is  still  in  vogue. 

2.  The  emblematic  meanings  of  tiie  Tarious 

Again,  we  have  the  May  Day  custom  of  bus- 
pendmg  hawthorn  houghs  by  doors. 

Thoku  Tdllt,  Jun. 

BiPTiBH  FOB  TBI  Dead  (S-*  S.  TiL  33 ;  4*  S. 
V.  424, 644,  666.)— So  much  has  already  appeared 
on  this  fUfutio  reriifii  in  the  pages  of  "N.  &  Q." 
that  I  am  surprised  none  of  your  correspimdents 
refetted  to  the  interpretation  inserted  in  the 
Odd.  Mag.  vol.  ulii.,  as  proposed  in  part  by  an 
eminent  cuvine,  Bishop  Pearce,  and  further  sup- 
ported by  a  no  lees  eminent  critic,  Isaac  Reed. 
It  is,  in  my  ojunion,  worthy  of  resuscitation  in 
this  i^x^r  iaT^;ru>,  ^though  it  has  at  great  length 
been  revived  in  the  Joitmai  of  Sacred  Literature, 
V.  396-414;  and  I  shall,  with  your  permission, 
supply  the  interpretation  referred  to  in  an  abrid(red 
form,  and  as  succinctly  aa  the  subject  will  admit 

The  commentator  shows  that  0airT(i'<aeiu  wg- 
nifiea  to  die  a  violent  death  by  the  hands  of  per- 
secutors, and  the  critic  adds  the  precise  idea  of 
Srlp  lao  riHpir,  which  in  this  place  means  those 
to  wham  the  gospel  was  preached  (those  tcAo  eat 
in  darkneu  and  the  ihadov)  of  death),  and  upon 
whose  account  the  preachers  of  it  suffered: — 

"  Tha  interpretation  here  propoaad  is  not  only  In  per- 
Act  aocordaDca  with  the  word  of  God  at  large,  with  the 
language  and  aentimentii  of  SL  Paul  bimaalf  in  other 
parts  of  his  epistles,  with  the  train  of  reaeoning  pur- 
sued in  the  chapter  in  which  theae  word*  are  fotmd,  and 
with  the  aenea  or  the  word*  elsewhere  separately  and  con- 
nectivdy;  bnt  all  the  argumenta  add  need  in  it«  eapport 
have  been  drawn  from  these  sonrcm,  than  which  none 
can  ba  mora  Intimate  or  better  entitled  to  deference; 
each  of  them  poawMaos  in  Itseirsome  strength,  and  com- 
bined, they  appear  to  prove  that  the  Apoatlea  are  the 
peniana  here  spoken  of  aa  boptjied— that  the  baptism 
referred  to  is  that  which  our  Saviour  aanonnced  ai  thair 
portion  (Mark  x.,  Luke  xiL)  i  and  that  by  the  dead  are 
meant  the  people  of  God,  the  body  of  Chriatians  in  tha 
apostolic  limes  who  were  led  bv  the  Apoatlea  to  con- 
aider  themselves  dead,  and  to  lead  them  to  do  which 
they  endared  that  afflictive  baptism ;  and  Anally,  that 
theae  words  in  this  sense  are  well  adapted  lo  mm  op  a 
powerful  appeal  like  that  of  the  Apostle,  as  descnbing 
in  the  conduct  both  of  those  who  preached  and  those  who 
racnved  tha  Ooq>el,  if  there  was  no  raanrroclioo.  a  depth 
of  iufatDstion  and  an  axtent  of  folly  periectly  onae- 
oonnUble.  'Their  life'  in  thia  caao  'would  have  been 
madneea'  indeed,  'and  their  end  without  honour.'"—  . 
(  Witdom  of  Solommi),  B.  K.  in  Journal,  Ac.  |  ( 

BaUOTHEOAB.  CSEISAIL 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


[«'&YU.Fu.i,'7L 


St.  Lbonasd  (4<^  S.  vi.  371.)— -la  this  mply 
(In  the  Editor)  we  are  told  th*t  there  wen  two 
aamtaof  the  name:  ooe  being  abbot  of  VandceuTiie, 
the  other  abbot  of  Noblac.  Is  then  anjthing  ia 
the  history  of  this  "pair  of  aunts"  to  aoooimt 
&i  ihat  extreme  popularity  with  atu  forefathers, 


"Vebitas  is  Pbtbo"  (4«  S,  ti.  474.)— This 
snyin^  of  Democritua  (who  died  B.C.  367^  is,  so 
br  as  I  have  been  able  to  discover,  fiint  given  by 
Cicero  in  his  Aeadetmci  (i.  10),  supposed  to  have 
been  written  Fibout  b.c.  45 :  "  Naturam  accuaa, 
quie  in  profundo  veritatem,  ut  ait  Democritua, 
penitna  abstrnserit."  Possibly  Seneca  (SeHrfic. 
ti.  23)  has  it  in  his  thouehtB,  when  he  aaya  i 
"Involute  veritna  in  alto  utet."  Dr.  Walcott 
(" Birthday  Ode  ")  teferatoit: — 

"  The  s»ge>  Mil-,  djiiOT  Truth  ddjglita  to  dwell — 
Stisoga  RuuiHOD— in  the  bottom  of  s  weU." 

Goethe,  in  his  Maxims  (iii.  169,  ed.  Stnttgsr^ 
1840),  speakH  of  Truth  with  the  saintr  olloaion:  — 

"  Der  Irrtfaum  let  viel  triditet  zn  erk«nnen,  ab  die 
W^riMJt  m  fioden:Jener  liegt  aaf  darObtrfki^  dMnit 
llMt  eidi  volil  fBEtig  wtnlwi ;  dl«M  mbt  In  dn  Tub, 

There,  is  a  very  pretty  idea  ia  J3on  Qmirale 
(t.  10),  whicJi  aemu  to  aafer  to  Taith  bung  in  a 
■wall:  — 


no  reM^  a^d  it  tinajt  geta  above  fAUehood  ai  oQ  doei 

I  have  never  seen  the  proverb  in  any  Greek 
-writer.  Among  the  sayings  of  Democritus  quoted 
by  Dic^nes  Laertiua  it  does  not  appear.  Can 
any  one  give  a  passage  where  it  occnra  in  a  Greek 
writerF  C.  T,  Bxkaqb. 

etrctraBBit  (4'*  S.  vL  474;  vii.  Ifl.)— Gherkm 
is  Scorn  the  Swed.  gttrka  =  Teut  gurcke,  a  cucum- 
ber, more  particularly  a  smaU  eucumher  iot 
piokliog.  Soma  aMtert  the  word  a.  oonuption, 
tbough  Ae  T.,  of  the  Latin  cuewbita.     J.  J.  J. 

The  metuing  of  gherkin,  inquired  for  by  P.  P., 
Is,  little  cucumber)  itom.  gm-he,  a  cucumber,  in 
German.  Ths  Dutch  have  Hie  word  aiptrk/e.  The 
terminal  tn,  I  take  it,  is  a  diminntdvej  and  it 
would  seem  probable  that  alt  words  are  allied : 
t£.oiuiurbiia~kmiuMiordemgotuA.  A.  H. 

J.  P.  asks  why  young  cuenmbers  are  called 
gherkins,  and  for  the  etymology.  The  pickled 
cucumber  or  gherkin  is  prabablv  of  German  or 
Dutch  origin,  and  the  w(M  ghericin  aeemi  to  be 
ttom  the  German  fftirke,  a  encumber ;  or  the 
Dutch  ai/to-kfe,  gurk/e,  rendered  "  a  small  pickled 
cucumber."  Wachter  thinks  giirke,  km-Jce  may  be 
derived  from,  its  curved  shape;   "Nam  Celtica 


liogiuL  ciorcea  eat  enmia,  incur«ti%  teste  Bbxham 
in  Lex.  Ant.  Brit.  Succis  '  krSckia,'  etiamnom  est 

currare,  ot  krock  cutvub.  Varro  quoque  nomea 
Latinum  a  eurtore  conatur  deducere,  quamvis  satia 
violenter,  utpote  litera  B  in  medio  dstfitutnm." 
Ihro  says  the  Su.-Gothi  ^imta  may  be  from  on- 
gurta  (med.  Lat.  aufitriiut).  "quod  emt  cuanmia 
~  '^  'i  genus,"  &c.  &c. ;  but  tie  Uiinka  it  may  alao 


The  probabla  derivation  o£  the  different  foixns  of 
the  word  in  the  Gotho-Teutonio  and  ^aronio 
languages,  as  well  as  of  liie  modem  French  oourga, 
is  from  the  Lat.  cticurbita.  Soqnefort,  under 
"couconrde,  couhonte,"  refers  to  coorde,  coordie, 
oeotni*,  oourdaj/t  (fi>i)nd  also  oonMnrdt),  which 
he  xeuden  "dttouille,  ot^ebBasa,  timwiJta;  ea  ' 
Languedoo,  oougotfU,  cotiffonrda," 

B,  a-CKABBOOE: 

Gimy'alnn. 

A  Jacobus  Soho:  Cook-ftohttto,  etc.  (4"" 
3.  vi.  K43.) — I  qnot«  the  following  from  a  Bitiory 
of  Einlyrt,  by  Peter  M'Intoah.  (Third  e£tion. 
Campbeltown,  1870)  r— 

"■In  thowi  days  (a  oentnTj  ajfo  arid  later)  the  acbool- 
naaCsn  being  Ui  mniUMialM  for  tlwir  labonr,  and  sobool' 
ttm  bung  vny  low,  tlia  teanhar  daimad  a  Cnw-will 
offBiing  OB  C^dlemai  day,  it  baing  an  old  ooaCoa ;  and 
tha  parents  oT  tbe  childrui  took  a  yraat  interest  iatliat 
dav,  making  an  effbrt  to  provida  tbe  scbolara  with  mids- 
tbiDK  haodNDie  to  oSisr  to  their  teacher ;  and  to  BDimats 
the  childnn,  a  ooek-tlght  was  prapowd,  with  other  amuse- 
In  some  Dnes  of  verse  that  follow,  tbe  author 
tells  ua  of  the  delight  of  the  boys  in  preparing 
their  birds,  and  gives  a  description  of  a  fight,  con- 
cluding thus  :^ 

"All  tboae  who  die  In  tbe  gnat  fl^t. 
The  master  cUinu  them  aa  hia  right." 
Further  on  he  tells  us  that — 
" The  teaoher  coUaotad  his  oS^rlng;  and  tbsbo;  and 
prl  who  gave  most  lecalvad  tbe  envied  tilla  ot  King  and 
Queen,  which  title  they  had  tbe  honour  of  carrying  to 
the  fint  da;  of  May." 

D.  WiiCPHAtt. 

Ciaciir  (J*  S.vi  450,  556,)— "A  Frbscb- 
■iir"  does  not  aeem  to  have  seMi  the  Cancan 
danced  lately  in  the  Jardin  Uabille  of  Parie,  the 
Tivoli  at  Hamburg,  or  in  the  public  gardens  in 
Berlin,  dss  be  would  not  have  vHitnred  to  defend 
its  decency.  It  may  be  interesting  to  your  readers 
to  know  that  the  cancan,  as  danced  by  a  Fxanch- 
woman,  formed  the  chief  source  of  the  amiis»' 
meat  of  the  Beriiners  up  to,  and  even  ^ter,  the 
deduation  of  war.  The  cylinders  for  adveiiise^ 
ments  in  the  Uuter-der-linden  continued  to  be 
covered  with  invitations  to  see  this  lasctrious 
dance  for  three  or  four  dnys  after  war  was  de- 
clared, up  to  ths  time  tluA  tiiey  wwe  required 
by  the  govsnunent  for  advertisements  oalllng  out 


*'»B.VILFeb.*,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


109 


tbe  Landwelit  and  'wHotkig  peraam  to  work  in 
the  anmak,  and  till  &6  anti-GnllioHB  feelii^ 
Bm<ng  lie  |ieople  caused  tlie  arfiite  to  mtraat. 
Cancan  ie  derived  from  Lat.  quaaquam,  althou;^. 
In  tiie  flckools  of  die  Middle  Agea  the  promrn* 
ciation  of  this  word  was  the  aat^ect  of  fierce 
contention,  one  partj  pronouncing  it  crmeem  and 
the  other  gnanquam  -  hence  it  cmne  to  eignifj 
tittle-tattle,  gosdp,  soanda^  nodue  fainiliarity, 
&c.  J.  H. 

"  Hic  UBKK  EST  IB  avo,"  ETC.  (4'"  S.  iii.  506.) 
!%«  aathor  of  this  ie  inquired  for  by  Mb.  Wattsh, 
who  will  find  the  anawer  in  joni  columne  given 
by  J.  S.  (2^  S.  i.  140).  The-anthorisWrfireDfels, 
Irofewor  of  Divinity  at  Beale  in  the  early  part  o! 
the  laM  oentuiy.  thieof  your-eorreapoBdente,  M. 
(1"  S.  xi.  78),  fumishee  a  tmnslttion ;  may  I  eug- 
gMtabetter?— 

"Herein  do  Mcta  of  every  kind 
For  their  own  doelrihss  looli; 
And  just  as  mrety  do  rtiev  find 
ThoM  iMtnata^ia  Ck«  book." 

W.  T.  X. 
JxtSB  FoRFKinnrM  (^i'^  S.  ri.  C  45.)— Probably 
one  of  the  books  Telating  to  the  Irish  forfeitureB 
of  1689,  of  which  Ma.  KU01.EAN  is  in  search  of,  is 
A  Sook  of  Poainffi  and  Sale  of  Forfeited  Estates 
in  Ireland,  now  in  the  British  Museum ;  the  date 
is  1703,  and  there  is  a  MS.  index  of  the  pur- 
chasers' names  aj^ended  to  it.  There  is  a  good 
deal  of  information  on  the  same  subject  in  the 
JtQtortt  of  the  Commianoaeri  of  Public  Secordi  in 
Ireland  0821-25),  the  third  Tolume  of  which 
giTm  "  Abatracts  of  Grants  of  Lands,  &c.,  under 
the  Acta  of  Settlement  and  ExpUnBtion,  A.D. 
1666-1684}"  and,  as  trail  as  I  remember,  ab- 
■tnoti  from  conreyanees  of  tbe  forfeited  'Catatee 
of  1088.  The  latter  estates  were  sold  at  Chiches- 
ter House,  College  Green,  Dublin,  in  or  before  the 
year  1703,  by  truatees  appointed  for  the  puroose. 

8L  Petor'g  Square,  Hammenmilb,  W. 

DKMfnnACS  (4"^  S.  v.  680j  tL  78, 183.)— The 
AMob/tical  Luettigation  of  the  Scry^ttral  Claim*  of 
the  Detil,  by  RiMsell  Scott,  1822,  has  been  attri- 
buted in  your  pages  to  Dr.  Bair  of  Liverpool. 
Has  this  gentleman  written  on  both  aides  of  this 
vexed  question,  seeing  that  A  Letter  to  the  JUv. 


vexed  quest 
Osor^Han 


Bow  DT  CojfiKJK  Praim  (4''  S.  vi.  486,  860.) 
I  have  a  Prayer-book  of  the  same  kind : — 

-LoBtfoe,  pTiMed  by  J^m  BetHeH,  Printer  to  the 
Eiig^  HoM  Ezoelknt  Haj«s^.  and  t?  the  At^imt  at 
noma*  Jwrwini,  sad  Mnry  BUh,  d«e«M'd.    ITSS." 

ft  is  In  its  original  black  calf  gilt  binding,  and 
has  bound  -whb  It  "  A  Companion  to  the  Altar," 
(fiftariL  !Piriier,  Bible  and  Crown,  Lombard  Street, 


17SI),  and  "Stemhotd  and  Hopkins's  Psalnu" 
(printed  by  Sue.  Collins  for  the  Company  of  Sta- 
tioners, 1718.)  It  eontmns  many  coarsely  executed 
Slatea.  The  frontispiece  is  a  portrait  of  King 
leoi^l  "  Joseph's  Dream  "  is  in  the  carpenter^ 
ahop  with  tools  about  The  illustration  to  "Gun- 
powder Treason  "  ia  an  eye  in  the  clouds  sending 
a  column  of  rays  on  to  Guy  Fawkes's  hand  as  ha 
is  carrying  his  lantern  by  night  to  a  conventional 
parliament  house.  Mv  copy  ia  very  neatly  ruled 
throughout  with  red  Imes.  J.  T.  F. 


loae  sight  of  the  -word  f eased,  meaning  untwisted, 
unravelled,  bein^  the  verb  of  f ease,  from  l.feten, 
also  fiu,  the  hair  of  the  head,  same  as,  and  per- 
haps derived  from  the  G.fax,  a.ft^x,  T.  faha,  all 
meaning  hair,  or  fibres  of  fiaz  j  thus  we  have 
Ihirfa.T;  but  I  cpite  fail  vrith  Jomr  Addis  in 
seeing  a  eonneetion  with /awe.        T.  Jxexhuh. 

Mr.  Addis  concludes  his  article  on  this  w<»d 
with  the  following  seuteuce: — "How  far  the 
'ravelling'  and  'driving  away'  meanings  are  to 
be  comiscted,  1  do  not  see.'^'  Wedgwood  says 
that  the  two  main  sensea  of  the  word  are,  "  1,  to  ~ 
whip,  chastise,  harass  j  and  2,  to  ravel  out  the 
end  of  a  rope";  and  Mb.  Addib  adoiowledgea 
that  "io  beat,"  and  "  to  beat  into  flight,"  are 
meanings  not  difficult  of  reccoicUemeiit.  If  ho 
had  remembered  that  the  whip  most  in  use  among 
sailors  ia  a  rope's  end,  I  do  not  think  be  would 
have  found  much  diiBcnlty  in  connecting  the  two 
meanings.  The  nautical  meaning  of  the  word 
feme  may,  after  all,  be  the  primary  one,  and  the 
whipping  or  driving  memf  only  secondary. 

E.M'C. 
Guernsey. 
HlPPomuTES  AITD    HOMCEOFATBT    (4"'    8.    vii. 

54.) — Q.E.'s  communication  appeared  in '"N.&Q." 
S*^  S.  ix.  688,  without  alicitiDg  a  reply.  Hahne- 
mann observes  that— 

"  Tbe  author  of  (be  book  *tp\'rirni'rSr  Kar'  JMpanrar, 
which  la  among  the  wiitiiigi  attributed  to  Hippociates, 
has  the  folloving  naurkibk  irorda :  —  l^  ▼&  W" 
rauaia  fimoi,  vol  iii  ta  jfigia*f<Mr^pofi*ra  in  raatir- 
Ttir  {r/mioemi,  ka.  "Byaimilar  things  diMase  li  pro- 
duced, sad  by  timilar  tbinga,  administerHd  to  tbe  sick, 
they  ara  beali  of  their  diseasea.  Tbu3  the  aarae  thing 
irhtch  will  produce  a  straajraiy,  when  it  docs  not  exist, 
will  Temove  it  when  it  doea.*' 

These  sentiments  are  thus  expressed  by  Coma- 
rius  in  bis  translation,  hi  1504 : — 

"Per  aimilia  morbns  fit,  ct  per  eimilia  odbibita  ex 
morbo  unantur,  Velnt  nrineD  Mflicidinm  idtmfunl  ti 
Mil  n't,  tt  ti  $il  idrm  udat,"  Ripponrates.  Opera,  Jauo 
Comarlc  intrnpiM*,  1564,  pp.  87,  »*.  Qnated  by  Wm, 
Sbaip,M.D.,in  TVaclxmJfawKfBtity,  Mo.  1,  p.4. 

J.  YKOWEI.L, 

Bows  iifD  CuRiSETs  (4*  S.  TI.  668).— M.  D. 
aaks  fot  the  Ihrt  teowd  of  the  curtsey.    Is  it  not 


110 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[lU'S.vn.  rKB.*,*:!. 


ID  Genesis  xli.  4S  F  "  And  Le  made  kirn  [Joseph! 
to  ride  iu  the  aecoad  chariot  vhich  ba  bad;  And 
they  cried  before  him,  Boa  the  knee."  The  cuitse; 
was  formerly  used  by  the  male  as  well  as  the 
female  sex.  E.  V. 

Behabkable  Occubrgucs  to  Bklls  (4"^  8.  vi. 
384,  407,  486.)— When  the  Royal  EichaDge  was 
burnt  down  a  few  years  wnce,  I  remember  the 
newspapers  telling  us,  as  a  curious  coiocidence, 
that  the  lost  tune  the  bells  in  the  clock  chimed 
ero  they  fell  was,  "  There's  nae  luck  aboot  the 
boose,"'  I  cannot  vouch  for  the  fact,  but  only 
for  reading  it.  P.  P. 

Mancbbsteb  Ceap-Booib  (4"'  S.  ti.  336, 460.) 
A  few  remarks  on  the  list  (p.  466)  may  be  accept- 
able. The  Shepherd  of  SaUtlnin/  Plaiu  is  from  the 
Cheap  Repository  Tracts  of  Ilaunah  More.  The 
Old  Woman  of  ttaicUffe  Highv>ay  was  one  of  the 
old  Aldennory  chap-books ;  it  is  A  curious  bit  of 
nonsecae  &om  begioniug  to  end,  in  the  same  style 
as  Foote's  "He  died,  and  she  very  imprudently 
married  the  barber  "  (vide  "  N.  A  Q."  3""  S.  iv.  187, 
237.)  However,  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that 
the  "  old  woman  "  was  laid  under  her  "wooden 
stone  "  long  beforeFoote  was  bom.  Washington 
Irring  and  many  others  introduce  a  "wooden 
tombstone,"  but  the  earliest  instance  that  I  know 
of  such  a  memento  mari  is  the  one  in  The  Old 
Woman  of  Satdiffe  Sightcay. 

The  Merrt/  Piper  is  a  modem  Teraion  (but  not 
ft  very  modem  one)  of  7j(«  i^'iw  and  Bo^,  which 
was  reprinted  by  Ritson.  The  Merry  I^per  is  in 
tolerably  smooth  ballad  metre,  and  contains  a  few 
laughablB  incidents  that  are  not  in  the  old  ver- 
sion. Ur.  Swindells  presented  me  with  a  copy 
of  this  chap-book,  ana  with  an  old  edition  of 
part  I.,  apparently  printed  about  a  century  ago. 
Tumtnua  and  Meary  is  from  Tim  Bobbin's  (CoU 
lier)  LaneaMre  Direct. 

Dvdtt  and  [prem]  Peas,  or  the  NevicaMe  Rider, 
b  a  Newcastle  story  founded  on  a  domestic  inci- 
dent in  the  old  northern  family  of  Coolisoa.  The 
Tahle-Book  of  Richardson  gives  full  particulars. 
There  is  an  interlude  on  the  subject  that  has  often 
been  acted  in  the  north-country  tlieatres.  The  King 
and  the  Cobbler,  Tom  Hickalhrift,  Doctor  FaaUtit, 
Nixon'e  Propheciet,  Simple  Simon.  Tom  Thumb — 
all  these  (except  Nixon)  were  Aldenaary  tracts, 
and  are  well  known. 


by  Mtt.  Harbison^  are  evidently  mere  abridge 
ments  of  popular  and  well-known  works,  and  do 
not  call  lor  any  remarks.  There  was  another 
Manchester  chap-book  printer,  who  bad  the  re- 
roarliabte  name  of  Shelmerdine.  I  think  there  were 
two,  father  and  son.  Has  Ms.  Hi.bbisok  any  of 
the  Shelmerdine  prints  ? 

Jdiss  HxiTBi  Drtoir, 


TiiLBKSOF  8noiB(4*S.Ti.  66fl.) — Loaf  su|^ 
is  put np in lar^ lumps  called  "lumps,"  weighing 
twenty  or  thirty  pounds  each,  and  in  small 
sugar  loaves,  with  which  every  one  is  familiar. 
But  there  is  a  loaf  of  intermediate  axe,  waighins 
about  ten  pounds,  and  these  loavea  ai«  called 
"  Iddara."  F.  C.  H. 

*■  TiTLEK ;  A  Urge  tmnested  eona  of  refined  sugar." — 
See  Wduter*!  VietioHary,  nvised  by  Goodrich  and 
Porter. 

A.  S.  W. 

Ross  or  WiSTONBHiKE  (4*  S.  vi.  6C9.)— -Your 
correspondent  will  find  three  generations  of  tbe 
Rosses  of  Balkail  in  a  sheet  peoigree  of  tbe  family 
of  Freer,  which  appeared  in  the  MiiceUanen 
Gmeaiogica.    Some  comes  of  this  pedigree  w — 

■   ■    •  ■  ■        '  * ssell  Sn 

F.  M.S. 

Anciehc  Bvildings  ih  Kashkib  (4'*'  S.  vi. 
627.) — When  tbe  snake  is  in  a  boritontal  position 
it  has  the  same  meaning  as  the  lingam— phallus; 
t.  e.  creative  or  "  vital  energy."  A  circular  snake 
is  emblemaUc  of  eternity.  QirBKiST  should  con- 
sult the  writings  of  Pa^e  Knight,  Qodfrej^  Hig- 
gins,  and  Henry  O'Bnen;  also,  "Prinpeia  mu* 
diveriorum  podarum  m  IViapum  luma,  iUuetrati 
comment.  G.  Shoppi,  Frond,  &c.  Patavii,  1664." 
I  cannot  say  more  or  be  more  explicit  on  such  a 
subject.  A^  to  tbe  i«Bsage  in  Oen.  iii.  consult  a 
learned  work  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Rendell  of  Preston, 
The  Antediluvian  BiOory  of  the  World. 

SisFHBK  Jackson. 

OiFSiES  HI  iRBLun)  (4*  S.  Ti.627.)— "  Twenty- 
five  Tears  ago  there  were  many  gipsies  to  bo 
found  between  Londonderry  and  Belfast"  (Sim- 
son's  Sitfory  of  the  Gipiiet,  p.  358,  n.)  In  the 
above-named  work  frequent  mention  is  made  of 
Irish  gipsies.  W.  R.  DRXHNAir. 

AtheD«QiD,  HancheatCT, 

Bell-bihoihs  (4*^  8.  vi.  667.)— When  I  was 
an  undergraduate  at  Cambridge,  more  years  ago 
than  is  pleasant  to  contemplate,  two  of  the  churches 
there  had  a  peal  of  three  bells  each,  which  re- 
spectively did  duty  for  four.  One  was  rung  in 
this  order — 1,  2, 1, 3,  with  very  good  effect.  The 
other  had  tbe  third  bell  erackm,  and  made  this 
music — "dingdong  drngfAiul.'"  With  the  ez< 
ception  of  the  glorious  peal  at  Great  St.  Mary's, 
and  one  or  two  tolerable  bendes,  Cambridge  was, 
and  atill  is,  wretchedly  furnished  with  church 
bells,  tbe  greater  number  of  churches  having  only 
one  or  two  each.  The  Abbey  Church  has  lately 
received  a  present  of  two  bells,  and  if  the  orijjinal 
use  of  bells  was  to  frighten  away  tbe  evil  spirits^ 
as  some  say,  then  these  two  bells  ought  to  be 
most  efficacious  for  the  purpose,  for  tbe  most 
frolicsome  of  the  imps  of  Beelzebub,  even  "  Cob," 
"Mob,"  and  " Chittabob,"  of  the  Ingoldtby  Le~ 


iUiB-YIl.  Fkb.4,71.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Ill 


gendt,  would  ba  "  off  in  a  crack  "  at  aoon  m  the 
jangle  of  thsM  bells  reached  their  ears.       I>.  S.  . 

Akms  op  thb  Coimis  op  Pebchb  (4*'  S.  vi. 
643.) — The  anus  attributed  to  the  house  of  Be- 
leame  are,  Bendj  or  and  azuie,  Botron,  Count 
of  Percbe,  was  the  son  of  GeoffinT,  and  (it  is 
BDppoeed)  grandson  of  Ou^iin  or  Warine  de  Be- 
le-ime ;  Trhich  Warino  was  brother  of  William  de 
Belesine,  surnained  Tahmte,  whose  onlj  child, 
Mabel,  married  Itoger  de  Montgomeiy,  Earl  of 
Shrewsbury. 

Rotron'a  (trandson,  also  named  Rotron  (son  of 
hiaeon  Oeofftej,  bj  Beatrice  de  Roue;),  married, 
for  his  first  wife,  Maud,  e  natural  daughter  of 
King  Benrr  I.:  and  for  his  second,  Hawjse, 
daughter  of  Waiter  de  Salisbury,  by  Stbilla,  the 
preaamed  daughter  of  Amuiphde  Heeding.  Sand- 
ibrd,  in  bis  Oerteahgieal  Hittoty,  calls  Ration  the 
"ton  of  Annlphde  Heading,  fiiet  Earl  of  Perche," 
and  Burke,  in  his  Vimtatton  of  SeaU  and  Arms, 
iL  61,  asserts  that  a  famiW  now  called  Hedding 
are  descended  from  Amulph's  son  Rotro,  Earl  of 
Perche,  by  his  second  wife,  "  a  Saxon  lady." 
Both   these  statements  are,  however, 


The  Nugent  family  are  also  stated  by  Burke 
(Peerage,  art."  Westmeath'*)  to  be  descended  from 
the  house  of  Belesme,  their  immediate  ancestor 
being  Gilbert  de  Nogent,  son  of  Fulke  ahd  grand- 
BOQ  of  Rotron  I.,  Count  of  Perche  and  Lord  of 
Noeent  de  Rotroa.  This  Fulke  married,  it  is 
Bud,  Uatilda,  daughter  of  Gilbert  de  I'Aigle ; 
that  ia  to  aay,  his  grand-niece,  for  Gilbert's  wife 
JaliaDa  was  toe  daughter  of  Fulke's  brother  Geof- 
inj.     (See  Orderiau  VitaUe.) 

I  beg  to  refer  your  correspondent  to  a  very  able 
and  interesting  paper  on  Arnulph  de  Heeding  by 
Mr.  Eyton,  the  historian  of  Shropshbe,  in  The 
Serald  and  Oeneaiogitt,  Ti.  241,  and  also  to  an 
article  in  the  third  rolume  of  the  same  periodical, 
p.  173,  by  TH.  J.  G. 

Book  OBirAiuNUTioir  (4""  S.  vi.  667.) — I  beg 
to  inform  F,  H.  S.  that  in  our  family  library  there 
is  a  volume  appropriately  omamented  with  a  land- 
scape on  the  edges  of  the  leaves,  which  is  only 
viatUe  when  they  are  slanted.  The  leaves  are 
Bot  pit  The  book  ia  supposed  to  have  been 
bound  between  fortV'  and  fifty  years  aco  at  the 
shop  of  Taylor  ft  Heasey.  If  the  sight  of  thii 
booV  would  be  of  any  interest  to  your  correspon- 
dent, I  conld  offer  it  to  him  in  a  few  weeks. 

A.S. 

F.  ti.  S.  may  be  interested  in  a  volume  in  my 
Boeeeasion  entiUed  Poema  and  Sttayi,  by  the  late 
Jliea  Bowdler.  The  sixth  edition,  published  for 
the  benefit  of  the  General  HoapiUl  at  Bath,  1788. 
When  slanted,  a  very  pleasing  picture  ia  presented 
of  ft  tropical  landscape,  snd  a  very  great  variety 


of  shades  is  formed  by  widening  the  slant  of  the 
edges.  I  shall  be  pleased,  if  your  correspondent 
wishes  to  consull  my  specimen,  to  place  it  at  bis 
disposal.  J.  W.  Ja£vis. 

IS,  Cbarln  Square,  Iloxlon,  N. 

Half  a  stoij  is  worth  little,  and  as  I  have  for- 
ffotten  the  binder's  name,  it  is  but  half  a  stoty. 
However,  there  was  a  bookbinder  near  Leeda  or 
Skipton  about  seventy  years  dnce  celebrated  for 
this  style  of  ornamentation.  I  have  seen  a  beau- 
tifully drawn  storm  at  sea  on  a  Falconer's  Ship- 
vireck,  and  a  landscape  on  another  volume.  It 
was  only  when  the  gilt  edges  were  slanted  that 
the  pictures  were  seen.  Whan  the  book  was  shut 
they  were  invinble.  I  have  tried  to  do  this  on  a 
gilt  book,  but  it  showed  a  little.  Hy  notion  is 
that  the  edges  were  cut,  then  sloped  and  drawn 
on,  and  then  gilt.  The  designs  were  coloured 
properly.  p,  p, 

"  Let  them  TBiK  aiu,"  btc.  (4""  S.  vi  569.)— 
The  poem  from  which  ;A.  O.  V.  P.  quotes,  not 
quite  correcOj',  is  called  "  The  Martyrdom  of 
Marius,"  and  is  contiuned  in  a  little  hook  entitled 
Amd  Jane'i  Vertei  for  Children,hj  the  late  Mrs. 
T.  Crewdson  of  Manchester.  The  book  was  out 
of  print  some  time  ago.  E.  M. 

Colham,  BristoL 

"DoLOPiTHoaj  OB,  THB  Kiira  iifn  ihk  Sbvbit 
WiSB  Men  (4'*  S.  vi.  544.)— I  take  the  following 
notes  hoax  Thomas  Wright's  introduction  to  The 
Sesen  Saget  (Pevsj  Soc.),  which  is  abstracted  from 
M.  Loiseleur  Deslongchamps's  .£hiii  lur  les  Fablee 
ladiennetj  etc.  (1B38). 

The  onginal  Indian  romance  is  named  Sauhiad, 
after  its  author.  The  Arabian  historian  Masaoudi 
says  that  this  writer  was  a  contemporary  of  a 
King  Gourou.  InMassoudi's  time  (died  a.d.  966) 
there  were  Arabic  and  Persian  translations  of  the 
romance.  Two  Oriental  writers  cited  by  M.  L. 
Deelongchamps  state  that  it  was  composed  under 
.the  Persian  dynasty  of  the  Arsacides  (b.o.  25Q  to 
A.D.  223.) 

From  the  Indian  original  are  derived — 

A,  The  Arabian  romance.  The  King,  his  Son, 
the  Faiioun'te,  and  the  Seoen  Vvcters  (translated  W 
Jonathan  Scott,  1800). 

B,  The  Hebrew  romance,  The  Parablet  of  Sea- 

C,  The  Greek  romance,  Syntipae, 
The  date  of  these  three  is  unknown. 

From  B  (which  is  at  least  as  old  as  the  end  of 
the  twelfth  century),  it  appears,  was  derived  the 

Sose  Latin  romance  Stttoria  smtem  tapienlum 
oma,  by  John,  monk  of  the  Ablwy  of  Haute- 
Selve  (early  thirteenth  century) ;  thruQgh  which 
veruon  the  work  was  communicated  to  nearly  all 
the  languages  of  Western  Europe. 

From  this  Latin  version  Herbert  or  Habert,  a  . 
trouvire  of  the  thirteenth  century,  madaaTe^M 


iia 


NOTES  AND  QUERHCSi 


[4*  a.  TO.  Fm.*,  71. 


ft««  translation  in  FrancK  v«n«,  wliich  is  beat 
known  by  tho  tilto  Dol<^athot,  th*  name  of  the 
IdBS  vrho  is  fatlKr  of  the  ben>  of  the  powa. 

For  deteils  I  refei  B.  B.  W.  Ei.i.is  to_Mr. 
Wright's  preface. 

The  [omaDce  in  all  its  Caims  a  &  collecnon  of 
BtorisB  coDuected  togethsT  by  this  prouud-plob. 
A  pnnce,  E&lselj  accuaed  hj  one  of  Ma  father's 
wives  of  having  o£Eered  hei  TiolsBce,  is  defended 
by  seren  philosopheis,  who  taU  stories  ahowiug 
up  feminine  malice  and  perreraitj.  The  wife  hu 
her  turn  at  Btory-teUing  in  soswer  to  each  □£  the 
philDsophfizs;  sad  the  final  cesuUi  is  the  bjum^b 
of  the  pionce'a  innoeeocei 

The  separato  atones  vary  considerably  in  the 
diSforent  veiwons,  Johh  Aokw^ 

Dbah  Swift-;  Loitdok  Chtjkoh»  ^4**-  S.  vi. 
860.)— '^''^  G^ntUman'i  Magaatia,  Tol.  Iit.  fart  3, 
p.  isb,  contains  a  list  of  the  fiftv  new  chuwhea 
built  in  London  by  Sir  Chriatoplier  Wren,  with 
the  cost  of  each  church.  At  n.  567  it  is  stated, 
"  tbe  churches  of  which  you  gate  aliat,  were  not 
the  fifty  new  ones,  for  hardly  any  of  those  wore 
built  eo  early,  but  of  churches,  rebuilt  by  Sir 
Cluiatopher  Wren  after  the  fire."  The  anony- 
mous writer  added,  "  I  think  it  is  to  be  found  in 


By  Act  of  Farliamant,  fifty  new  churches  were 
ordered  to  he  erected  to  replace  those  destroyed 
in  the  Great  Fire,  and  the  rebuilding  in  this 
instance  was  to  a  great  extant,  if  not  entirely, 
entrusted  to  Wien,  In  the  tenth  year  of  Qiteen 
Anne's  reign,  however,  another  Act  passed  for  the 
erection  «  fifty  ronre,  the  object  being  not  menly 
to  remedy  the  ins«ifficiency  of  accommodation 
afibrdad  by  the  then  esisdng  cbutches,  but  also, 
in  the  words  of  the  contmisaion  appointed  to  carry 
ool  th»  Act^  the  "  radManng  the  inconvenience 
and  growing  miachiela  which  resulted  &om  the 
increase  of  Dieaenters  ud Popery."  QueenAnne's 
Act  wa»  but  imj^rfectly  realised  as  regards  the 
number  of  bniidmgs  to  be  erected,  out  to  it 
London  owes  some  of  its  very  finest  churches,  e.  g. 
St.  Mary's-in-the  Strand,  and  St.  M»rtin's-in-tho- 
Fields  by  Gibbs,  St  Mary  Woolnoth  by  Hawks- 
moor,  and  St.  Gilea's-in-the-Fielda  by  Flitcrott. 
It  would  be  veiT  desirable  to  have  a  list  of  the 
churches,  with  the  name  of  the  architect  in  each 
case,  which  owe  their  existence  to  this  measure. 
Any  account  would,  I  believe,  embrace  St  Ann's 
Idmehousa,  St.  George's  Bloomsbury,  St  George's 
Hanover  Sq,uare,  St  Luke's  Old  Street,  St.  John's 
Westminster,  and  St.  Botolph's  Kshopsgate 
Street  H.  t.  T. 

"Locm'B  OEDDtiBT"  (4*  S.  vi.  669.)— The 
"story  tfrfd"  of  Sir  George  Etherepe  is  probably 
just  as  true  as  a  bundrea  others  that  be^  with 
de  same  words.  Where  the  original  is  to  be 
faund  I  cannot  say;  Uie  eailieet  relation  of  it,  as 


br  ea  I  knov^  occurs  ii 

>'»  ike  Slreett  of  London  by  tiia  bte  Joha  ThoUM 

Smith  (ed.  1846,  L  147.) 

For  the  plays  as  well  as  other  wiitinge  in 
which  thb  once  celebrated  tavern  is  mentioned,  I 
refer  Mb.  3.  Fbkei  to  Cunningham's  H<miStook 
of  London,  where,  under  the  heading  "  Locket^" 
ha  wiU  find  all  tlw  puticulars  he  is  in  search  o£ 

CotKLEB  WlIJS.. 

HsABtB  Tax  (4^  S.  n.  47Sy.  4SL>-Tbis  tax^ 
or  whatever  it  was,  could  not  have  bean  vAolly 
sepealad  1^  1  WiUiam  and  Ma^.  I  can  well  re- 
mamben  forty-five  yeaes  baalt,  uid  renkember  th« 
mair  calling  fiit  ua  "  heantlt.  nMvay,"  aa  U  wa« 
styled,  when  I  was  vary  yow^ ;  and  I 


badaoonik  fire^oces  heuig  blodieti  119^ 

Although  I  cannot  contribnte  any  of  tiie  ballads 

asked  for  by-  Cfl.,  I  seniiL  lAat  t  ventnn  to 

think  win  prove  almost  aa  interesting^ — aainely, 

epitaph  Rora  Folkestone  churchyard,  in  vrtiich 

made  to  "  tbe  badg«  of  slavery  " : — 
"  rn  HamoTT  of  Rebecca  Rogers,  iriio  died  Aogiut 
22°^,  1688.    Aged  44  Year*:— 

"  A  bottM  she  hath  ;  it'a  made  of  inch  good  fiMhioi^ 
The  tenuit  as'«r  ahttll  pa;  fi>r  lepecation ; 
"Sot  will  her  luuUonl  bwv  Jtim  her  nnt. 
Or  iBTii  hor  oat  of  diMS  for  uDDparneiit. 
From  chiamey  moaa;  \ao  thu  cell  k  free. 
To  lucb  a  tkouae  who  would  not  tenant  in?  " 
The  above  is  engraved  on  a  headstone  phced 
agtunst  the  north  wall  of  Uie  chancaL 

J.  4.1^. 
"  HlLAElOM'a.  Sbotami,  ihs  Sa8B  Ceow" 
(4''  S.  vii.  11.)— Uilarion  was  anabbot  whA  lived 
in  the  latter  port  of  the  fourth  century.  He  re- 
tdred  to  the  deserts  in  the  neighbouriioocl  of  Mb~ 
Juma,  where  he  led  the  life  of  a  hermit.  After  4 
time,  accompaniad  by  a  Caw  chosen  foltewara, 
among  whom  ia  e^eoially  mentioned  ona  Us- 
syehiua,  he  betook  lumself  to  the  islimd  of  Cyprus, 
where  he  died  in  371.  There  is  a  tradition  that 
supplied  with  food  by  birds ;  hence,  n 
!.„  „ii.>^ ri  D   T> 


doubt,  tbe  allusion. 


C.  B.P. 


This  is  evidently  a  mistake  of  JSlarion  for  FauL 
and  tbe  allutuon  is  to  the  miraculous  suMOit  of 
St.  Paul,  the  4rst  hatvit.  St.  Jerom  ratatea  of 
him  that  a  t^w  brought  him  every  day  half  a 
loaf.  F.  q.  H. 

"The  HALt  of  Wattob  "  (4"  S.  vi  645;)— A 
story  of  the  loss  of  an  Englishman  who  attempted 
to  explore  in  a  boat  an  ancient  subterranean  cis- 
tern at  Constantinople,  called  the  "  Botan  Serai," 
or  bitiiied  palace,  appeared  aboid  1846, 1  should 
atej,  m  iSharpe't-  Magamm.  Thwe  wm  rathe«  a, 
striking  engraving  of  the  ciatani,  giving  the  idea 
of  vaat  extant,  t£a  loof  being  supported  by  Co- 
■ haKsr"^ "- 


"T7c:ftr)§lc 


«*S.TIL  Bib.  4,71.3 


NOTES  AND  QUEffiaES. 


I  (4*  &  iri.  488.)— Conf.  Thrmetoii 
{liMKierly  Timestone),  oo.  Noitbampton ;  Thrip- 
l«w,  CO.  Cwnmidge;  ITiropton,  co.  Northmnbor- 
land ;  TtiTup  or  Trup,  co.  Berks ;  and  the  Sazon 
thorp  (Qai,  dorf),  wbioh  oomipta  into  thn^tp, 
dfHp,  In^,  tkarp.  It  doM  not,  howevsi,  follow 
tfait  ihe  suffix  'ie  tharr<tp.  It  may  be  tiarrap, 
arrap,  or  arf.  Among  tbe  eighteen  Afferent  formH 
TVhich  the  TOCahle  ira  ia  liable  to  uaume  aie 
<n^  'and  tmJl  Trdrorsh  might  mean  dwelling 
cm  the  water ;  f)v<-«r-u&,  dwelling  on  the  hsi^t ; 
mt-itamf,  dwellii^  of  Hanap.  Hamp  is  an 
&igfifiii  enniame,  but  I  am  not  aware  that  it  is 
found  in  CornwaU.  R.  S.  Chabnoox. 

Gray's  Inn. 

P^.  Mr.  Lonm  M^B  Tkorpt  in  some  diatricts 
ifl  oomipted  to  Thorp,  and  that  in  Hampshire 
persona  named  Sibliiorpe  are  called  Thary. 

E(iinTAi,EirT  FoKEieK  Tttlbs  ('4"'  S.  Tii.  15.) 
I  d)ould  be  glad  to  know  how  T — s  would  dis- 
pooa  of  the  exiled  royal  family  of  France,  or  of 
thoee  of  Spain,  Naples,  Slesmg  Holatein,  Han- 
orer,  &c.,in  ^Is  scale  of  precedence  ;  and  how  he 
can  coi^paie  nobility,  although  derived  from  the 
Saxon,  Norman,  Flantageuet,  or  Wdah  princes, 
with  ue  suona  of  bonsee  that  haTe  occupied  the 
frincipal  thrones  of  Europe.  S. 

Fools,  ok  MomHB  of  Sxrhaus  (4">  S.  vii.  12.) 
The  brooks  nnS  watercourses  which  empty  them- 
aelree  into  the  river  Wyre,  within  ita  tidal  influ- 
ence, have  dotal  or  fioodgatet  placed  at  some  dia- 
tance  from  theb  mouths  in  older  to  prevent  the 
"  mland  "  from  being  OTerflowed  by  salt  water, 
Belowthe  floodgates.to  the  river,  those  tributaries 
are  called  poolt.  The  streams  which  fall  into  the 
"Wrre  beyond  the  reach  of  the  tides  are  never 
called  by  that  oame.  Jaubb  Peabsob. 

Letter  of  Guileo  (4'*  S.  vii.  12.)— The  ori- 
ginal MS.  of  the  letter  of  Oalileo  to  CastcUi, 
dated  Dec.  21, 1013,  which  is  doubtless  the  epistle 
referred  to  by  M.  H.,  was  in  1813  in  the  collec- 
titm  of  the  well-known  liitirateur  Foggiali,  and 
was  printed  I^  him  in  bis  SSrie  de'  Teiti  di  lingua 
<1818,  i.  160).  It  was  afterwards  printed  by 
Ventnri  in  his  Memorie  e  Lettere  Hi  OaHlei  (1831, 
pcrtl.  p.  203),  and  probablj'  also  in  Alberi's  edi- 
lion  of  the  Opav  A  Galiiei,  which  I  have  not  at 
hand.  Gbosoe  M.  Gbsbh. 

57,  Eiog  Williaat  Strut,  Strand. 

The  FuDfT  of  "Guibo's  Aueora"  (1"  S.  ii. 
S9I ;  2^  S.  iii.  206 ;  4"'  S.  tu.  13.)— Probably 
the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q.,"  even  if  tbey  remember 
it,  will  be  unable  to  find  the  reply  to  this  query 
in  the  firtt  seriaa,  because  it  is  not  referred  to  in 
the  Index,  having  been  insBrtad  only  inddentally 
in  a  long  gommanloation  <m  a  subject  of  the 
anne  deecriptioii.    It  is  as  follows : — 


"  There  Is  by  the  game  author  (AlMiader  Mtoha, 
apod  Golenm  ad  Partbeaium  XioBensem)  anotber  de- 
scTiptioD  of  tha  rerotution  of  the  pluiala,  whiah  i<  worthy 
of  notice,  iaamnnch  as  the  Lathi  traaslatiim  contains 
many  of  the  expressiinia  la  the  verses  subjoined,  as  Ha. 
Davtbos  Tvasett  informed  as  (I"  g.  ii.G91),to  apiint 
of  Quido'i  c«t^rat«d  Aarara  at  Roma,  an  UKouOt  of 
which  is,^T«n  Id  ffotia  dm  Eitampa  apOKa  -a  la  £U- 
lialAegKt  du  Boi,.l2mo.    A  Talis,  1823. 


'Qnadi^i^  iDvectaa  equEa  So 
CiraamvNat  ouim  Inaa ' — 


Imitated  In  tuelfa-aitlttoka.  Tb»  nmnber  of  n^^nphs 
b;  vhich  tba  sun  is  acooinpaDied,  and  which  hand  to 
band  sqimuod  tda  chatiot,  indieates  not  the  bonis  (!■'  8. 
iii.  287}  bnt  the  days  of  the  week,  the  namee  of  which  In 
several  langnaees  are  derived  from  the  aevao  phnets, 
tbst  golden  ifain  in  whioh  originated  the  pnncipal 
deities  of  pagan  idolatry."— 1"  S.  viL  132. 

BiBXTOTSECiE.  CeXTSAM. 

Rev.  SiBTJBL  H«ST«T  (4^  S.  -vii.  SB.)— Be  was 

oufe  Professor  of  Moral  Fhlloeophy  in  the  Wil- 
liamabuT^  Collie,  Vi^^ia,  and  the  lanthor  of 
several  literary  worts  enumerated  by  Watt.  I 
Blwa3's  understood  that  both  the  French  and 
English  text  of  fathek  was  the  production  of 
Beckford.  The  notes  alone  in  the  Bayard  edition 
are  assigned  to  Dr.  Henley. 

Tsoiua  E.  WmriNftioir. 

Heform  Bill  in  1831  C^"  3.  vi.  645.)-J  well 
remember  refusing  to  pay  the  tases  then,  the 
Marquiaee  of  'Weatminster  and  Lansdowns  being 
mv  exeniplara.  Ja]|[£3  Gil^ibt. 

51,  Hillkreet,  Peckbam,  S.E. 

Gobs  (4""  S.  vi.  546.)  —Oort  or  gorcc  (from 
the  French  gorl),  a  weir.  By  statute  25  Ed.  UL, 
c.  4,  it  is  ordained  that  all  goroea,  &&,  whereby 
the  king's  ships  and  boats  are  disturbed  and  can- 
not pass  in  any  river  shall  be  utterly  destroyed. 
Sir  E.  Coke  derives  this  word  from  "  gurges,  a 
deep  pit  of  water,"  and  calls  it  a  gort  or  gtdf:  but 
this  seems  to  be  a  mistake,  for  in  Domesday  it  is 

called  gotti-t  and  gori,  the  French  word  fc " 

(JacoVs  Law  Diet.)  ' 


O.  M.  T. 


The  meaning  of  this  word  is  a  point,  a  pike,  a 
horn,  bmig  the  Saxon  gort,  originally  applied  to 
n  prickly  shrub,  the  juniper,  and  restharrow. 
Some  suggest  the  German  gein  but  the  Saxon,  I 
think,  is  sufficient.  •  J.  J.  Jk. 

D .  G (4''  S.vi.  628;  vii.  63.)— For  a 

fuller  account  of  D G aee  8""  8.  v.  846. 

It  is  strange  that  several  thousand  potuds  should 
have  been  pud  for  the  suppression  of  a  libel,  and 
still  more  so  that  the  libeUer  should  tell  it  in 
print  Mr.  Daniel,  however,  only  says,  "  a  large 
sum  was  given  by  order  of  the  Prince  Regent." 
In  The  Modem  Dtmciad  (p.  28,  ed.  1836)  he  eays 
of  himself,  "  I  who  abhor  a  bribe."  Gifford 
{Saviad,  1. 146)  says,  "I  who  receive  no  bribe," 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


t**s.vir.  fbb.*,  71. 


and  the  vhole  passage  is  altered  &om  Qifford  foi 
the  worse. 

I  am  BOiry  to  think  ill  of  a  writer -who  hasp  Ten 
mo  much  pleasure.  The  tone  of  Th«  Modem 
Dundad  is  bip;h,  aad  its  crilidsm  generall;  sound, 
ftnd,  though  large  approprtalaons  are  made  from 
Pope  and  Giffori,  the  greater  part  is  gwd  and 
original.  If  Mr.  Daniel  reallj  took  the  Ragent|8 
money,  he  could  afterwards  write  highly  of  his 
generosity  whan  well  applied.  In  the  eariy  edi- 
BoDs  of  The  Modem  Dtmciad  O'Keefe's  age  and 
distress  are  thus  noticed : — 

"  F.  I'll  name  0'K*eft.    J".  I  can't  b«  grare  with  him. 
A  rare  compound  of  oddit/  and  wbim. 
His  natira  ease,  his  qaaint  amnNng  stjle, 
And  wit  groteviae  woald  make  a  ilolc  amlle. 
Ye  wbo  have  lauRhed  when  LIgeo  trod  tha  stage 
Bttan  this  dull  and  nntimental  age, 
Ba  Kratefii!  for  the  marrimeEt  he  gave, 
And  Muooth  hie  cheerleu  panage  to  the  giaTC." 
On  this,  in  the  edition  of  1835,  is  a  note :—  , 

"  King  George  the  Foorlh,  wilh  that  fine  feeling  which 
Btampa  an  additional  valae  on  a  favour  confen«d,  ap- 
pointed a  b^b  dignitary  of  the  church  hia  almoner. 
The  Bishop  of  Chiehejter  was  the  bearer  of  the  royal 
bounty,  an  annual  pension  of  oae  hundred  poanda. 
"  Deeds  Bach  as  these  shall  bring^ 


And  prore  the  brightegC  Jewel  in  his  crowa  i 
Shall  ehed  around  his  throne  Bublimer  ran. 
And  dim  [he  brlghtneisof  the  diamond's  hlaie." 


The  lines  are  creditable  to  D G— 's 

feeling  but  show  that  he  was  stroDget  in  satire 
than  in  panegyria  H.  B.  C. 

O.  U.  6nb. 

"He  took  thb  Doe's  Xosb"  (■!"' S.  vi.  406 j 
Yd.  43.)  —These  are  the  lines  that  I  always 
heard:  — 

"  There  sprang  a  leak  in  Noah's  ark. 
Which  made  the  dog  begin  to  barlu 
Il'oah  took  hia  nose  to  stop  the  hole, 
And  benoe  his  noee  is  always  cold." 

R.H. 


IT0TE3  ON  BOOKS.  ETC. 

XondiiN.-  HiOddraltdCharacltnaiidRtnaHHiitePlaee: 

By  3.  Henesge  Jesse,  Author  of  "  Hemolrs  of  Kinr 

Georga  the  Third,"  Ac.    In  Thrit  Votuma.    (Bentley.) 

London  has  been  fortunate  in  Its  blBtorians.    From 

FllMtaphen  and  Stow  (wilh  his  continners,  Anthony 

Munday  and  Strj-pc)  down  to  Pennant  and  Peter  Cnn- 

ningbam — to  say  nothing  of  a  host  of  minor  luminaries — 

London  has  never  wanted  the  pen  of  a  ready  writer  to 

chronicle  its  growth  and  progress.    The  lut  t^  years 

hare  iKen   essentially  proliflc  in  books  illuBtratlTe  of 

■,,.>,   ,[,,   y,^j^   before   ns,   by  Mr. 

)t  place.    A  century  ago 
..  ,  ..  ih  that  some  one  woiild 

what  Saint  Foix  bad  done  for  Paris, 
record  oveiy  spot  rendered  interesting  as  the  bcmib  of 
soma  remarkable  event,  the  birih-^dace  or  residence  of 
some  well-known  penonsge,  and  point  oat  the  historical 


aasodaUons  oonnected  with  every  locality.  This  idea, 
partially  adopted  by  Pennant,  was  cvantually  admirablv 
carried  out  by  Cunuingham  in  his  Handbook,  and  by  Mr. 
Jeaae  in  his  LUtraTy  and  Hiilorical  Mtmoriall  of  London, 

fublished  in  1847,  and  its  seqael,  Lonrhn  and  iU  Cde- 
rititt,  published  in  1850.  The  book  before  ns  is  a  happy 
combination  of  his  two  former  entirely  recast,  and  to  a 
gnat  extent  rewritteD  by  Mr.  J»se ;  and  while  it  must 
be  admitted  that  it  wants  the  order  and  precise  ar- 
rangement which  matccs  Connlngham's  Saadioidi  so 
extremely  valuable  as  a  book  of  reference,  on  the  other 
band,  it  is  charmingly  goaupy,  and  aa  an<^  wooid  on- 
donbtedly  have  won  higher  praise  f1n>m  the  sage  and 
cynic  of  Strswberty  llitl.  It  is  only  juatics  to  add, 
that  the  book  is  made  oseful  as  well  as  agreeable  by  the 
very  ample  Index  of  namea  of  placea  and  peraooa  by 
which  It  is  completed;  and  would  In  our  eyea  have  ap- 
proached as  nearly  as  possible  to  perfection,  bad  Mr.  , 
Jesse  tbllowed  thepractioe  adopted  by  him  in  his  Mcmeiri 
of  Gtorgt  tht  Thud,  of  quoting  with  great  fuUncas 
all  his  authorities.  To  have  done  io  would  periiapi 
hare  considerably  enlarged  the  die  of  the  work — it 
would  certainly  have  increased  ita  valne. 
Lift  of  Ambroit  BoncidU,  by  Ail  FaOar.     Ediltd  bm 

John  E.  B.  Major,  U.A.,  Fellow  of  8t  John's  College, 

Cambridge.     (Deighton,  Bell  &  Co.) 

This  little  volume  ia  extracted  from  Oambridgt  nadir 
Qinw  Annt  (printed  mainly  for  such  of  the  anthor'a 
friends  as  are  interested  in  the  history  of  the  □nirersities), 
and  is  a  reprint  of  A  Pattcnt  for  Tomg  Shidmti  ia  Or 
Ukltm-tity.  Such  is  the  title  of  the  life  of  his  son  which 
the  elder  Borwicke  published  in  1729.  It  Is  accompanied 
by  a  mass  of  illustrative  notes  (h>m  the  pen  of  the  pre- 
sent editor,  which  doubles  the  siie  of  the  book,  and  far 
more  than  doubles  its  value.  These  notes  Hr.  Mayor 
modestly  offers  as  a  contribution  towards  Alfiena  Caitta- 
brigitnia,  adding-^"  that  he  must  be  a  bold  man  who 
undortakee  to  complete  Mr.  Cooper's  work  ;  but  as  tite- 
rai7  tastes  gain  ground  in  the  Cniversity,  it  becomes 
more  and  more  likely  that  the  attempt  may  be  made  ; 
and  in  so  wide  a  field  every  gleaner  finds  some  ears  which 
have  escaped  previous  search."  The  editor  dedicatee  to 
the  Master.  Fellow.i,  and  Schntars  of  St.  John's  College 
"  this  view  of  the  Nonjuror's  Home  as  it  appeared  on  the 
eve  of  the  last  Cambridge  Persecution  " ;  and  our  readers 
will  find  it  an  important  contribution  towards  the  his- 
tory of  that  earnest  body  of  English  Churchmen. 
What  I  HOP  nftht  War  at  the  Batikt  of  SpiScherrn, 

Corzt,  and  Grartlotte.    ANarraliceofTieiiMontht' 

Compaiipiing  icilh  the  Pnaiian  Army  in  Vie  MoieBe. 

2lyde  Hon.  CAUaosoD  Winn.     (Blackwood.) 


We 


ake  shsn 


ounnlve 


iding  thai 
aphAandi 


by,  a 


nntowaid  accident,  our  notice  of  this  graphic  and  amusing 
sketch  of  the  first  two  months  of  this  dreadful  war  has 
been  postponed  until  now.  Bat  the  book  has  mora  than 
a  temporary  interest,  and  will  be  doabtlees  henaftec 
frequently  referred  to. 

Dibntti  latulmttd  Peeragt  and  TUlee  nf  Omrteiy  qfAe 
United  Kingdom  of  GrealBritam  andJrdaad,  to  whifik 
H  added  much  /n/bruutisii  mpecfno  the  Tmnudiatu 
Family  Connrcliont  of  U>  i>eer>.  Under  dirtcl  Fer- 
Kinal  Setieian  and  Corrtction.  1S71.  (Dean.) 
Dtbretl't  IHmtrattd  Banmitage,  milk  the  Knightage  rf 
die  United  Kinadnm  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  j  to 
ichich  II  added  mneh  Informntiim  retptctiiig  tKe  imme- 
dutfe  Familf  OonnectBHti  of  Ike  Baroneii.  Under  direct 
Feremcd  Sevaion  and  Correetion.  1871.  (Dean.) 
We  have  so  repeatedly  called  attenUon  to  the  claims  of 
this  useful,  and  in  point  of  Itonn  meat  cftnk^anL  Past- . 


4*  a.  Tit.  Fn.  4,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


■gi^  Baranedge,  and  KnighUn  to  the  : 
puUic,  that  m  ma;  varypiopenf  coolent  q 
ilatiog  ttiat  the  Fecrage  ia  brought  dowi 


.e  faronr  of  tlie 
....  It  oor»elv«B  with 

alatiog  that  the  Fecrage  ia  brought  down  to  the  very 
close  of  the  jear  18T0,  iuainiacb  aa  It  records  the  death 
of  Lord  Walsugbam,  wbich  took  place  on  December  31, 
aad  ^ves  the  nsnal  iDComiBtioa  respecting  his  succeoior. 
UdIcsi  indeed  it  be  to  expreaa  our  satisfsclion,  that  the 
«ditor  atill  eonUiiDea  to  oaLl  attention  to  tbe  drcnmstance 
that,  owing  to  some  defect  in  our  laws,  any  person  may 
with  impuity  assame  the  title  of  Baronet  i  and  tbat,  to 
their  discredit  be  it  spoken,  there  are  many  among  us 
who  do  not  hesitate  to  do  bo. 


Books  RKCBI7XD. — Haj/dn'i  Dictionary  of  Dalt$ ;  S<ip- 
fltmmt  to  lilg  TVrfKurA  EiGtim,  inelKding  0\t  HUloty 
«/  tht  World  to  At  Snd  of  1870,  by  Benjamin  Vincent 
Oloxon.)  A  moet  valuable  addition  to  the  iudispeaaabli 
Haydn,  if  for  one  article  alone:  its  Chronology  of  tbi 
Franco-Prussian  War  up  to  Dec.  SI. — We  most  confine 
•arselTes  lo  recording  the  (ities  of  Tkt  Bookworm;  a 
lUutlrattd  UAttarf  and  BiUiografhical  Rtvitic  (to 
KoTcmber}  ;  Oobnual  Qucttioni  prtHing  /or  Immtdial 
Soltilion,  by  R.  A.  HacSe,  M.P.  (Loagmans)  ;  JVumImi 
'*    "  Eitgaat,and  Frina  imptrialfHndtheFranc6 

ir,  by  D.  G.  F.  Macdonaid,  LLD.  (3teeL) 


.WopiM 
lio  Ferr 


TSB  new  nomber  of  tbe  AcaJemi 
■nnoonuments ; — The  discover]' in' 
on*  by  Correggio  and  the  other  b; 

vhich  are  now  beiog  exhibited  in  mn  juDseuoi  ui  lyr. 
Riuconi  in  (he  Gallery  of  Yittorio  Emanuele  ;— the  com- 
pletion oflhecastfor  Dr.  Whewell's  statue  by  Mr.  Wool- 
lier, for  Trinity  Uotl^e,  CambridgB  )  and  the  poblication 
shonlyof  tKO  poalhamous  tales  by  MinAnsUo—"  Lady 
Sosan,"  «  ilurt  one-volume  atoiy,  and  "The  Watsons,"' 
whidi  ia  uuroitDualely  unfinished. 

Tub  Hoabitb  Stoke. —  Dr.  Oinsbnrg  wIU  read  a 

Cper  oo  Ihli  subject  at  the  Ro^al  Asiatic    Society's 
cetiog  on  Monday  eveolog  i  Sir  Henry  EawUnson, 
K.C.B.,  in  tbe  chair. 

Tdrsday'b  GaztUt  announces  the  appointment  of  Mr. 

James  Sent,  B.A.,  ai  Friocipil  Fainter  in  Ordinary  to 

Uer  Uajealy,  hi  the  room  of  the  late  Sir  George  Hayter. 

Tni  SovAL  AoAnEMT.  —  Uessra.   H.   S.    Marks,   F. 

Walker,  and  T.  Woolner,  bave  just  been  elected  Asao- 

Damtb's  "  Divlna  CommeJia  "  ii  now  bdnic  translated 
into  Koumanian  by  the  Ronmanian  poet  I.  Etiades  Radn- 
lescos,  who  bas  for  Some  time  past  been  engaged  on  this 
.task. 

Ta«  DicKSHs  CoPTRrotrra.— It  ia  slated  that  these 
but-  pasted  by  porchaae  lota    the  hands  of  Hesers. 

Sib  Ruderick  Udbchiiox,  the  co-patron  with  tho 
CrowD  of  the  chair  of  Geology  in  the  Uiiiveifity  of 
Edinburgh,  has  nominated  Hi.  Archibald  Geikle,  F.K.S., 
aa  the  first  professor.  Sir  R.  Mnrcblson's  endowment  is 
CfiOOl^  and  (he  Crown  adds  2001.  per  annnm  to  the  in- 
tsreat  on  this  mm,  and  the  ieei. 


^tirt<  U  CarrtipanVtnU. 

CuKMOD<tr.o^.—\.vnJl  fndarlicia  on  lAt  ttymologu 
ofthliwordinoari'^ZA.  130,  194;  V,  319,  B70. 
_  A  Nkw  So!«o  from  Paris,  <nU  p.  T2.-~0wing  to  tbt 
miicarringt  of  a  pronf,  Ihtrt  ii  a  miireadiitg  rn  Me  iccimtl 
line  nf  "  donntraii  pour,"  intlrad  of  "  vtndrait  pour,'' 
irAiei  ipoiU  Ifie  mtlre. 

Abhba's  iuggr§tion  ikould  be  addreutd  to  The  Armagh 
Guardian, 

G.  J.  C.  (Leeds.)— 1.  TTe  neoer  eaa  Oui  lintt  bifore  i 
2.  (?)  Sir  thonuit  Fiitlipi;  9.  Tbe  Bookworm  it  pub- 
lUlud  at  ike  office,  4,  Brydga  Street,  Oment  Garden. 

Sr.— Smith,  tpelledSaiijtbfdaet  not  occur  in  the  book  ta 
lohicK  Sf.  re/irt. 

"  Pkcca  FORTiTBB,"  ante  p.  77. — T^jKery  una  tuttrted 
by  an  avenlglkt ;  far,  al  at  hare  been  reminded  by  LoRU 
LiiTELTO^,  it  had  already  teen  annrtred  very  fidbt  ia 
"  N.  It  Q."  4"  S.  iii- 137,  199,  278. 

Tub  Willow  Pattbbh.— J.  B.  u  referred  to'onr  8'* 
S.  xi.  152,29H,3^S,  100,  461. 

Mro  MsRRiLit^.— Z.  milt  find  a  full  account  ofJtan 
Gordon,  the  prolnlgpe  of  Meg  Merrilta,  in  Ae  prtfact  la 
the  CcnteHonun  Edition  (/Gay  Uaonering. 

GE:<EALOaiCAL  UuEBISH  af  HO  intereil  bai  to  the  in- 
qtiirer  oannol  be  initrted  uitleu  tA  i  oturriit  addt  hit  name 
aad  addrea  to  trhere  replia  mny  befoneardrd, 

Ndherai,  Pbopheoies.—  We  ntnit  rtfer  Mr.  Morbis 
to  our  S"*  S.  X.  S7,  21G,  and  V^  S.  vi.  i'B,  290,  35G,  446, 
496,  irhire  he  <eiU  fi«d,  nnl  only  the  inilanctt  given  by  him, 
Iml  alto  a  colltcHon  ofoAtri. 

T.  8.  N.— ElCKLBIOB  hot  alna^  had  a  reply.  Set 
p.  3S7  of  o«r  lait  volume. 

J.  Fbb&y.— Chapman  j-  Hail,  191,  Ficcadilty,  eanpro- 
bably  supply  what  you  rei^uire. 


Oe.111 


,  gtery  „ 


■Mtype,o 


DKr.oiquB.— TTle  gueitlon  it   entirely    one  of  feeling. 
We  doubt  Ae  legal  right  of  the  head  of  the  fam'     ' 

URCtiDH  it.    A  titOefurAer '  — 

probably  eMlablUh  the  IX 


iMlafnt.  td.l.irliiiAmarbepaHlmPiMOIIinOrdaiiaiiMe  altti 
mtM  Wmh  Pdii  (Ma.  tZfirSir  ^  WElum  OTSuth,  O,      I 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4n'B.TII.  Fed.  i,  71. 


rpo  PORTRAIT  COLLECTORS.  — JoKS  Stkhsob 


4OTH0R8    ADVISED   WITH  sb   to  Cent    of 
d  puBLraimro,  ma  (in  ''i'^^i'  "^T^S^' 


riATALOGUE  irantfd  of  Pictacee  sold  by  Pbtkr 


Fhotographs  of  Feraons,  Piotures,  A;  Places, 


}BQUABE,  LOSDOH. 


K 


NGLISH     CHURCH     JURKITURE.     ORNA- 


;BY  CURIOl'S  BOOKS,   including 


TTEBY  CUI 


J  lUUBp—THOUAS  Bl 


ss 


■R,  HOWARD.  Suigeon-Dentist,  62,  Fleet  Street, 

■  I  tbfly  m  pnftctl* 


Im  tbmrnr.   Tbvy  »1 


fbutft  ■dnrtor  to  vir  tc«lh 


FABTBID0E    AHB    OOOF£K, 
MAHUFACTtraiNG  STATIONERS, 

19S,  Flwt  Street  (Coraer  of  Chuieerj'  Lane). 


ROTE  PAPEH.Cl 


GOijouiua> 


lAlTPLOVetH'S 
FTBSTIC    SAXIITE 


UnM,  mvcnUoff  uid  AirtBC  HJ 


S .  Holborn  BUI,  London , 


r,  Thohu  Cobuk,  i 


VV      HARPKB'3    CATALOGUE    of    BOOKS, 
TV  •  .T^wduiiisUDilULKFUuHciiu.wUI  be rDrruil^ i«l n*a K 


fpHE    NEW    GENTLEMAN'S    GOLD    WATCH, 

ThcK  IVolihH  l»vt.ninnT  pjinU  of  Spfd^  HimHr. 


CHTTBB'S   WEW   PATEWT   SAFES. 

STEEL  PLATED,  irith  Diagonal  Bolta,  Ui  leflist 
nHli».»iUU.iniiFli., 
CKTOB'B     PA.TBVT    DETSOrOB    KOCKB, 


IRON    DOORS    FOR   STRONG   ROOMS. 
lllmtrattd  Frizt  Liiti  Gratia  and  Poit-Fm. 

OHBBB  and  SON, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


LONDOX,  aATURDAT, 


1 

1 


Oluris  SMwkrt.  IIT  -  Sbakcspcve  ud  AideiUIS  —  Bin- 
KuluPTOccediniBin  lIiddl«(oa,  119— "The  iWdinl  Boil," 
bi  Huiillo,  liO  -  CanteiurlBnlim.  IB.  —  The  StrHburg 
Libno  —  Ciypiy  Cookeiy  — The  ScboolniMtar  iliroM  in 
BtidTM^hire  —  \  Contnut.  IMS  *Dd  IBTl  —  Hummcn  — 
Old  JokcB  —  '■  Skewing  upon  ■  Olave  QtMtea,"  IM, 

QVEBIGS;  ~  Smjlhs  of  Ireland,  lit— Btibop  AkuMk  — 
B»lbculi»n  —  [•edigree  of  PeWr  BIrt  — "Blue  Books" 
quoted  by  Butler  — DeS^e  or  Sv -- The  "  Eitatln  "  of 
O«ld»no— "FridHi  Tree"  — "TheOredan  Bend"— Her- 
T«»— The  Uolem  lbs  WeU  — Burial  Fbcei  at  Hui 
Siihopa  —  Uisule  id  Oaam  LaumineDMm — jMijU. 
Wurtlaj  MootBgu**  Letteri  —  Theodo^  Noel— Pul&ton 
Tuntly-Quotnticms  noted— Baneluh,  Wllta,  Ac  — Tho 
Bode  of  t&e  Walt,  Northampton  —  Biie  and  the  Wbiie- 
bnn— Slawkenbngiui'B  "  Treatise  on  NoMS  "  —  Smjlh, 
alua  Heriz  of  Withoote,  Leioealer^rei  SoTth  of  Bath- 
couraer.co.Cortc- Btor;  of aSt^ue,!!!. 

BSPLIBB:  — The  Ciseod,  125— Samplera,  IH—  Gomish 
BpokenlaDevoDshtrc,  Ji.  — CbeaaiaEnclandaiidCbiiiP. 
127  —  L«dT  GrimMDn'ii  Gists  Id  TeviQ  CburchfuJ,  las— 
The  BpeHing  of  TjrndalH's  New  I^lament.  Second  Edi- 
tion, IM  —  - Times  Whiatle."  Ic  — Hair  growliiit  after 
Death  —  Eaiteru  Story  —  War  Uedali  —  ha  loedited 
Blegy  by  OHwr  Ooldamith  — Aabburnera  of  PurneM  — 
Bbropihlre  Bakings  —  Cobblera'  Lampa  In  Italy  —  Ths 
Bhombua  and  Scanu  —  WulfMina  —  St,  Valentino  —  A 
Bill  actually  presontod  —  Leigh  Bunt's  "  Leisure  Hours 
in  ttniB  "  — lliB  Five  "  Tliird^inted  "  Bnirea-  Macduff, 
TbaneofFUe  —  Babiea'  Bella— Wrooft  Datee  in  certain 
Siotwhiea- "Thin  eau Might,  this  eaa  Hlght"— The 
Adveiit  Bjmn,  Ac,  130. 

ITota*  on  Books.  Ao. 


ALLEGED  LETTER  BY  FREDERICK  OF  PBUSSIA 
TO  PRINCE  CHARLES  STEWART. 

The  followin);  copy  of  a  trausktian'of  a  letter 
in  French,  alleged  to  have  been  sent  b;  Frederick 
of  Pnuein  to  Prince  Charles  Stewart,  haa  gone 
the  round  of  moat  of  the  public  joumais.  A  few 
lines  are  piefiied  by  wa;  of  explanation,  evi- 
dently to  give  a  semblance  of  tratli  to  the  docu- 
neat  It  is  represeuted  as  haying  been  trana- 
lated  bj  Lord  George  Mutray,  and  enclosed  in  a 
letter  to  the  person  for  whom  it  was  intended. 
Both  letter  and  translation  had  been,  it  is  asserted, 
entombed  in  an  old.  black  letter  Bible.  It  will 
be  observed  that  neither  the  original  translation 
nor  the  alleged  letter  are  described  as  autograph. 
The  dat«  ia  November  6,  1746 — not  quite  six 
nontlis  after  the  defeat  at  Culloden  ^pril  16, 
1746). 


He  fbllairjng  letter  from  Lord  George  Homy  to  ■ 
Aieod,  CDctoeiDg  a  translation  of  b  letter  from  Frederick 
King  of  Pnusia  to  Prince  Cbailea  Stewart,  has  beoi  found 
recently  within  the  leaves  of  an  old  black-letter  Bible  :— 

"  My  Lord,— Though  this  letter  hath  been  «o  long 
kept  in  secret,  and  hid  from  the  public,  I  give  you  my 
banonr  it  ia  genDtae,  It  was  with  great  difficulty  I 
<ibtaiiHd  it,  and  though  I  am  not  peiieet  master  id  ttie 
French  language,  I  attempted  the  translation  of  it,  and 
if  it  ia  not  so  correct  or  sablime  in  the  En^ish  tongue  aa 
in  the  orginal,  yet  it  will  in  a  great  mMaore  discover  the 


" '  Host  tieloved  Cotuiii, — I  can  no  loDfjer,  my  dear 
Prince,  deny  myself  the  satisCactioD  of  caogrataUting 
you  on  your  safe  arrival  in  France,  and  though  the  con- 
nection I  have  with  the  reigning  &mily  did  not  permit 
me  to  r^oice  too  openly  at  uie  progress  of  your  arms,  I 
can  assure  yon,  on  the  word  of  a  King,  I  was  sincerely 
touched  with  your  misfortunes,  under  the  deepest  apprs- 
bensloDB  for  the  safety  of  your  person. 

" '  All  Europe  was  astonished  at  the  greatness  of  roar 
enterprise  ;  for  thoogh  Alexander  and  other  heroes  have 
conquered  kingdoms  with  inferior  armies,  you  are  the 
only  one  who  ever  engaged  in  such  an  attempt  without  an^. 
"  '  Voltaire,  who  of  all  poets  is  best  able  to  write,  is 
above  all  men  more  indebted  to  your  Highness  for  having 
at  length  furnished  him  with  s  subject  worthy  of  hia  pea, 
which  has  all  the  requisites  of  an  epic  poem,  except  a 
happy  event. 

■'  >  However,  though  fortune  was  your  foe.  Great  Bri- 
tain, and  not  ^our  HigbnesB,  are  the  only  losers  by  it, 
as  the  difficalties  you  have  ondergone  have  only  served 
to  discover  those  Ulents  and  virtues  which  have  gained 
yon  the  admiration  of  all  mankind,  and  even  the  esteem 
of  those  amongst  your  enemies  in  whom  every  spark  of 
virtue  is  not  totally  extinct. 

" '  The  Princess,  who  has  all  the  curiosity  of  her  sex, 
ia  desirous  toeee  the  features  of  a  hero  of  whom  she  haa 
beard  so  mneh,  so  that  yon  have  it  in  your  power  to 
oblige  both  ber  and  me  in  sending  us  your  picture  by  the 

Count  de ,  who  ia  on  his  return  to  Berhn ;  and  be 

assured  I  shall  esteem  it  the  most  valnable  acquisitian  I 
ever  made.  You  are  frequently  the  subject  of  GOnvera»- 
IdoD  with  General  Edth,  whom  I  bsve  bad  the  good  for- 
tune to  engage  in  my  service,  and,  besides  his  consnm- 
mate  knowledge  in  military  affairs,  be  is  possessed  of  a 
thousand  amiable  qualities,  yet  nathing  endears  him  so 
much  aa  his  entertaining  tlie  sentiments  with  regard  to 
your  Royal  Highncsa  that  I  do. 

" '  Was  1  differently  situated  to  what  I  am,  I  would 
give  yon  more  essential  proofs  of  my  fHendahip  than 
mere  words  ;  but  you  may  depend  on  any  good  offices  I 
can  do  with  my  brother  of  France.  Yet  I  am  lony  to 
tell  you  that  I  am  loo  well  acmiaintcd  with  the  politica 
of  that  Court  to  expect  they  will  do  you  any  solid  service, 
as  they  would  have  everything  to  apprehend  from  a 
Prince  of  your  oonsummate  abilities  and  enterprising 
genius  plaoed  at  the  head  of  the  braveat  people  in  the 
world.  Adieu,  royal  hero,  and  assure  yourself  that  no 
change  of  fortone  cod  make  any  alteration  in  my  estenn 
" '  From  our  Court  at  Berlin,  PanaaiA. 

Novemtier  8, 1746.'  ? 
It  is  odd  that  this  affectionate  and  confidendal 
conunuoication  has  the  word  "Prussia"  at  the 
end.  It  is  not  usual  for  monarchs  to  subscrilM  (a 
superscribe  papers  of  any  kind  after  this  fashicm. 
Neither  the  kings  of  England,  ScotUnd,  not  Franca 
signed  as  "  England,"  "  Scotland,"  "  Fiance." 

Now  the  letter  and  prefatory  observation  wera 
printed  and  attempted  to  be  circulated  more  than 
one  hundred  and  twenty  years  ago.  The  writer 
has  Id  his  possession  one  of  the  printed  copies 
seized  by  order  of  the  magistrates  of  Fldinburgli 
on  June  29, 1748 ;  and  the  only  difference  of  tOB , 
sliKhtest  moment,  between  the  origioftl  yenion 
wia  the  modem  copy,  is  the  date — the  former 


118 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*8.vn.  Feb.  11,71. 


being  "  NoTember  the  8tb,  1747,"  and  the  Inttei 
"  November  8, 1746." 

In  consequence  of  mtelligeDce  received  b;  the 
muiistratee  of  Edinbu^Ii  that  a  document  of  a 
eeditiouB  tendency  was  pnTatAly  in  drculatjon,  an 
itiquiiy  was  set  oa  foot  by  them,  and  four  wit- 
nesses were  examined  on  the  snbject,  whose 
depoNtioiu  were  to  this  effect :  — 

Upon  June  29,  1748,  John  Loch,  keeper  of  tbe 
Lai^  cofiee-bouse,  was  examined  in  preaence  of 
the  Lord  Provoet  and  Magistrates.  He  deponed 
that  be  hod  seen  the  MS.  of  the  letter  three  -~ 
four  months  previoualy  — 

"  That  bang  in  his  coffee-home  this  moming,  between 
nine  and  ten  o'clock,  a  bov,  whom  tbe  declirant,  kr  — 
not,  came  Into  the  coffet 
fear  copies  of  a  printed  t> 
out  lookiDE  to,  put  iotu 
he  keepe  hU  sugar  and 
'With  a  nnt^Iar  want  of  curiosity,  he  asserts  he 
never  looked  into  them,  and  could  give  no  inform- 
ation about  the  boy  who  brought  them.  On  the 
eame  day  the  constables  came  with  a  search  war- 
rant, when  Loch  put  tbe  papers  into  his  pocket, 
refused  to  give  them  up,  and  only  produced  tbem 
when  brought  before  tne  counciC  One  copy  was 
marked  by  the  clerk  of  the  court,  signed  by  Loch, 
authenticated  by  Baillie  James  Stewart,  and  is 
llie  one  above  referred  to. 

Patrick  Arthur,  "  keeper  of  the  Brittish  coffee- 
house," was  next  examined.  He  declared  that 
the  previous  night,  between  the  houra  of  nine 
and  ten,  a  printer's  boy  with  hb  apron  on  came 
to  the  coffee-house,  and  gave  thirteen  copies  of 
the  letter  of  the  King  of  Prussia  to  the  servants. 
These  were  deliver^  to  him,  whereupon  tbey 
were  instantly  locked  up,  and  shown  to  no  person. 
He  delivered  the  copies  to  the  constables  when 
they  came,  but  could  give  no  account  of  the 
printer's  boy,  as  all  he  knew  on  the  subject  was 
communicated  by  his  servant 

Next  day  brought  out  the  name  of  the  printer, 
who  turned  out  to  be  Robert  Drummond,  whose 

S prentice,  John  Livingston,  stated  that  one  John 
inderson  brcuKht  the  MS.  to  the  printbg  house 
of  his  master,  where  it  was  printed. 

David  Ross,  the  pressman  of  Mr.  Drummond, 
spoke  ai  to  the  delivery  of  the  MS.  and  the  order 
by  John  Henderson  to  have  it  printed,  which  was 
obeyed,  and  five  hundred  copies  thrown  off  and 
delivered  to  Henderson.  lie  concluded  his  de- 
claration by  asserting  "that  Henderson,  upon 
bringing  the  MS.  to  the  printing  house,  sav'd  tbat 
he  had  got  it  from  one  Mrs.  Nicol."  Who  this 
female  was  (if  such  a  person  did  really  exist)  is 
not  elplained. 

The  seiiiare  of  this  seditious  fabrication  waa  in 
June,  1748;  and  the  paper  printed  is  dated  in 
Nov.  1747.  The  recently  discovered  MS.,  now  I 
reprinted,  is  dated  in  Nov.  1740. 


It  congratulates  Prince  Oharies  on  hia  safe 
arrival  in  France,  which  occurred  in  that  year, 
and  the  printed  letter  does  the  same  a  year  later; 
whilst  the  deposition  before  tbe  mafpstrates  ea- 
tablishee  that  the  MS.  letter  and  utroduction 
were  not  in  type  until  May  or  June,  1746. 

If  genuine,  this  document  is  an  early  specimen 
of  PrusMBU  double-dealing,  worthy  of  the  pre- 
sent refined  age.  But  we  have  no  Uttle  difficult 
in  arriving  at  the  conclusion  that  it  is  a  fiction : 
one  of  those  devices  not  unfrequently  practised  to 
influence  tbe  public  mind,  and  prepare  it  for  a 
subsequent  rising.  That  the  government,  upon 
leamiog  its  existence,  issued  those  orders  to  which 


cobites  was  in  contemplation. 

Had  the  letter  been  a  veritable  one,  it  would 
never  have  been  subscribed  "  Prussia." 

J.  M. 

SHAKESPEARE  ASD  ARDEN. 

There  is  a  very  interesting  and  able  article  in 
the  A'or(A  Britith  Beoietv,  Xo.  civ,  p.  894,  on 
Shakespeare  and  Ben  Jonsnn,  !□  whicH  reference 
is  made  to  a  grant  to  Shakespeare  by  Camden, 
1600,  to  quarter  the  arms  of  Arden  of  Alvanley, 
in  Cheshire,  aa  the  issue  of  the  marrisKe  of  hla 
father  with  tbe  co-heiress  Miss  Arden  of  S.  Strat- 
ford, CO.  Warwick. 

I  think  it  has  al^^  been  understood  that  this 
lady  was  of  the  old  Warwick  stock  of  the  Ardens, 
and  not  of  the  Alvanley. branch  of  tbat  family; 
and  I  ahould  have  supposed  that  Camden  was  in 
error  had  not  tbe  writ«r  in  the  article  in  question 
suggested  the  posnbility  of  the  co-beiresa's  grfuid- 
faUier,  Thomaa  Arden  of  Aaton  Cantlowe,  being 
a  son  or  grandson  of  Thomas  Arden  of  Leicester- 
shire, Ump.  Hen.  VI.,  who  was  tbe  son  of  Ralph 
Arden  of  Alvanley  ^  his  wife  Katherine,  daugh- 
ter of  Sir  William  Stanley  of  Ilooton.  Perhaps 
some  of  your  readers  may  be  able  to  assist  m 
attempting  to  settle  this  very  interesting  (ques- 
tion. I  may  add  tbat  there  is  no  Arden  pedigree 
recorded  in  the  Vidtation  of  LeiceBterahire,  1619, 
and  only  once  in  that  very  full  record  is  an  Arden 
mentioned  so  late  as  Shakespeare's  time,  and  that 
is  "  MuiieUa  filia  Arden  de  Parkhall  in  Com. 
Warr." 

The  writer  epeaksof  Shakespeare's  father  bong 
of  a  peasant  family,  by  which  1  auppoee  he  means 
that  the  father  being  (I  think)  a  woolstapler,  it  is 
to  be  presumed  that  ^  his  remote  as  well  as  near 
ancestors  were  of  the  same  or  humbler  condition. 
If  clearly  made  out  as  a  local  or  personal  sur- 
name, it  might  very  materially  help  all  future 
biographers  of  Shakespeare.  Is  there  no  manor 
or  hamlet  in  Great  Britain  (I  will  not  say  Ire- 
land; it  has  not  yet  put  in  a  dwrn  b  ■  "^  ■  -"  '■ 


...^u^;,^!^. 


<•aviLFEB.li,'; 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


119 


Shakspur,  Shagspnr,  Sb: 
apKT,  ShsclclespuT,  &c.  P 
aeem  to  be  s  personitl  name,  such  u  Strong-i'th'- 
■im  OT  Ana»ttaag,  Sbake-th'-apear  —  &  rstber 
military  appellation,  asd  probably  of  vetr  hoaour- 
able  ongin.  In  aDjcnse,  I  suppose  Shakespaare's 
pfreat-^rand father  ia  believed  to  have  been  a  com- 
batant at  Boaworlb.  If  this  is  tbe  case  the  re- 
cord or  tradition  of  such  a  drcumetance  raises 
ft  presumption  Qlepending^  on  the  nature  of  such 
T«cord  or  tradition)  rather  in  faronr  of  the  ffunily 
being  more  yeoman  than  peasant.  That  Shake- 
•peare  himself  makes  no  reference  to  male  or 
female  nde,  and  never  troubled  himself  in  the 
Terj  eostlj  mAtter  of  pedigree  in  those  days,  goes 
for  nothing,  thoug-b  it  cannot  be  for  a  moment 
■apposed  that  the  natural  curiosity  of  a  boy  to 
knovr  trhere  he  came  from  should  not  develops 
itself  in  Shakespeare's  riper  years  into  the  equally 
strong  cntioeity  to  know  of  whom  be  came.  For 
there  are  gentlemen  I  have  been  acqutunted  with 
irhoee  ancestora  down  to  their  great-gTandparents 
pOBSeseed  very  large  estates  for  centuries,  who 
Dad  the  very  faintest  suspicion  of  the  fact,  from 
the  circumstance  of  the  early  deaths  o^  parents 
and  other  members  of  their  families,  a  lather's 
or  grandfather's  second  marriage,  whereby  chil- 
dren by  the  first  wife  suffered  school-baniahmeut, 
and  BJierwards  resided  at  a  distance  from  home, 
and  from  other  similar  circumstances. 

I  know  not  whether  the  woolstaplers  of  Henry 
Vlll.  and  Elizabeth's  time  were  protected  by 
guilds,  as  many  other  trades  of  those  times,  by 
wUch  few  of  immediate  peasant  .origin  were  at  all 
allowed  to  enter  the  community.  But  one  thing 
is  certain,  bad  not  Miss  Arden  been  bis  mother, 
we  should  have  had  no  Shakespeare  ;  and  as  we 
know  something  of  her  side,  it  would  not  be  amiss 
that  we  know  something  of  his — the  paternal. 
As  to  the  armorial  question,  it  is  thought  in  the 
article  quoted  that  Shakespeare's  and  his  father's 
reasons  for  applying  for  the  canting  coat  subse- 
qnentl;  granted  were  on  account  of  their  de- 
nre  to  impale  and  quarter,  though  the  father  as 
well  as  the  son  could,  I  think,  have  used  the 
Ardea  arms  without  impalement  or  quarter ;  the 
former,  I  should  say,  by  carrying 
eacocheon  of  pretence  on  a  blank  shield.  Then 
it  is  farther  said  that  Shakespeare  never 
quarter,  because  I  suppose  his  seal,  and,  it  ia 
gested,  his  monument  bear  no  quarterings ;  but 
u  there  no  emblazoned  coat  of  quarteringa  coeval 
-with  Shakespeare  P  As  to  seals,  they  were  very 
rarelyengraved  quarterly;  and  as  for  monumental 
evidence,  why  it  is  no  evidence  &t  alL 

T.  Hblsbt. 


SINGULAE  PROCEEDINGS  IN  HIDDLETON. 
I  enclose  a  cutting  from  the  3fa»cA««t«r£nimi»«r 
id  Timet  of  Jan,  10, 1871,  giving  particulars  of 
a  singular  custom  recently  observed.  Although 
a  Lancashire  man,  1  have  not  read  or  heard  of  the 
custom  before.  I  may  add  that  Middletou  is 
about  five  miles  from  Manchester;  the  manufac- 
tures  are  silk  and  cotton,  and  the  population  in 
1801  was  14,482:— 

"  SatDrdar  was  tbe  lut  day  Of  a  (isgiilsr  tttnmalta 
held  at  Middletor.  It  bu  been  for  many  yean  a  custom 
among  the  inhabitants  of  a  locality  called  Throstle  Hall, 
a  part  of  the  town,  to  annaally  elect  a  king  over  the  dis- 
trict, vhoM  province  is  to  receive  petitions  conceniing 
street  nuisances  in  any  ibape,  and  take  the  beet  means 
in  his  coDception  to  have  the  adfhe  abated,  Tbe  king  for 
tbe  present  year  is  a  John  Barber,  dealer  in  salt,  eaud, 
pipeclay,  and  other  articles  of  domeelic  use.  He  was 
crowned  on  Monday  in  the  kitchen  of  a  beer-bonse, 
named  for  the  occasion  '  Westminster  Abbey,'  by  a  per- 
son who  was  dabbed  '  Archbishop  of  Pigeon  Hill,'  a 
neighbourhood  situate  in  Ton^e.  The  crown  was  made 
of  block  tin,  and  was  profasdy  ornamented  with  f^aihera 
and  coloured  ribbons  :  it  was  alan  lineil  with  rabbits'  skin, 
and  upon  the  peak  was  a  braaa  plate,  on  which  woo  in- 
scribed •  King  John  tbe  First,  1871.'  On  placing  the  crowa 
upon  Barber's  bead,  'bis  grace'  delivered  a  poetic  ad- 
drets.  After  this  ceremony,  Barber  mounted  a  platform 
in  the  street,  when  ha  was  greeted  with  vodferons  cheer- 
ing by  about  50UO  persons — the  male  portion  ail  tiDCOver- 
ing  and  remaining  uncovered  while  his  majesty  addressed 
them,  which  he  did  in  right  royal  terms,  hoping  that  his 
subjects  wonld  be  true  to  him,  and  be  ready  for  defence 
in  case  of  invasion  by  enemies,  ha  promising  in  return 
that  he  would  watch  over  their  interests  night  and  day, 
and  attend  to  all  their  petitioot A  Mr.  Thomas  Brier- 
lev,  of  the  '  Cottage  of  Content,'  Tonge,  followed  with  an 
address,  in  which  he  expressed  a  hope  that  the  royal 
dignilywonldbsmade  hereditary  by  the  people,  and  that 
the  present  king's  princee  and  princesses  wonld  bear  the 
crown  after  him.  After  thw  his  majesty  was  taken  over 
his  dominions  in  hia  csrt.atleuded  by  his  otficere  of  state, 
whom  he  had  already  appointed,  a  strong  body  guard, 
and  thousands  of  hia  soWeols.  In  the  evening  a  grand 
feast  woB  held,  after  which  his  majesty  danced  with  the 
lieauties  of  his  conrt,  to  the  strains  of  a  brass  band.  On 
Tuesday  the  king  paraded  the  whole  of  Midrtlelon  on  bis 
'chai^er'—bisilonkey— attended  by  his  officers  andguard; 
and  in  the  evening  he  again  rode  along  the  thorough- 
fares, when  there  was  a  grand  torchlight  procession, 
lateronin  the  night  Mr^.  Barber  was  crowned  queen  by 
the  women  'of  Throstle  Hall,  who  provided  a  handsome 
cap  for  the  occasion.    After  this  ceremony,  her  majesty 

eleven  o'clock  the  royal  couple  were  attended  to  tbe  gates 
of  their  reaideace  by  a  host  of  persons,  who,  after  smging 
'God  save  the  King'  and  the  'Chrirtmiis  Hymn,' re- 
tired in  perfect  order.    Aronndof  fesf  ■■* 

till  Saturday  evening  in  honour  of  the  _ _ 

mentioned  that  Barber  had  a  rival  for  royal  hi 
the  person  of  a  Jesse  Collinge,  a  weaver,  and 
Mondav  morning  there  was  a  poll,  which  resulted  in 
Barber'  being  elected  with  20S  votes  against  200  given 
for  Collinge.  Cabs  and  other  conveyances  were  brought 
into  requisition  to  bring  voters  to  the  booths.  The  pro- 
ceedings throughout  were  conducted  in  a  very  orderly 
and  business-like  manner,  and  were  watched  by  largo 
numbers  of  persona  from  ffldham,  Kochdale,  Heywood, 
and  other  pluea." 
HeatonChapd. 


1  honours  in 


G.  n.  s. 


NOTES  AJJD  QUEEIES. 


[4*SlVU.  Fkb.  li,7L 


"THE  PRODIGAL  SOS,"  BT  MURILLO. 

It  hM  been  said  that  the  series  of  iUustnttiona 
of  this  parable  bj  Murillo  is  in  some  respects  the 
best  of  ois  works  now  exbibititig  at  the  Rojal 
Academj,  I  am  g'lad  to  be  allowed  to  append 
lie  followiDg  descriptive  estiaet  from  an  unpnb- 
liehed  sermon  on  the  same  subject,  preached  hj 
Dean  Stanlej  a  short  time  since  in  Westminster 
Abbey,  feeling  confident  that  it  will  add  greatly 
to  the  pleasure  of  visitors  to  the  preaent  exhibi- 
tion, in  enabling^  them  to  appreaate  more  fully 
these  masterpieces.  E.  F.  T. 

"  The  Parable  of  the  Prodigil  Son  inighc  be  the  etoiy 
of  any  home,  in  any  part  of  the  world.  There  ia  a 
wondeifallv  vivid  repretantalioD  of  it  in  Ita  several 
parts  in  a  eenes  g(  six  aucceasive  pictarea  by  the  greatest 
of  Spnwh  pninten,  anoe  divided  from  each  other, 
piQjy  lASpsin  snd  partly  in  Italy,  now  happily  re- 
nnited  in  EnRlsed.  The  painter's  genioa  baa  there  por- 
trayed the  trhole  story,  u  though  it  had  happened  In  his 
owo  country.  There  ia  the  Spanish  father  diridine  the 
property  bMween  the  two  yooths.  They  are  hardly  to 
be  di5tingnished  from  each  other  in  that  happy  moment 
of  opening  life.  The  liitnre  to  them  is  as  yet  nnknown; 
the  world  ia  ail  before  them  where  to  choose  ;  their  father 
hMka  with  equal  and  benignant  love  on  both.  Then 
comes  the  parting  of  the  yoanger  son  on  his  travels. 
There  he  starts  in  hat  and  plnme — on  his  prancing  horse 
— in  all  the  pride  and  jraietv  of  hrilllant  success  and  hope. 
The  father  hlessea  him  wiih  all  the  fiilncss  of  paternal 
affection.  His  mother  weeps  with  ail  the  depth  of 
motherly  love.  Only  the  elder  brother  stands  by,  with 
his  arms  folded  and'  with  stem  nnmoved  countenance, 
as  much  as  to  sav  'I  know  whither  vou  are  going — 1 
fareeee  what  will  befall  yon.'  Then  cnmea  the  falL  The 
happy,  gay,  innocent  youth  baa  plunged  into  riotona  liv- 
ing and  debauchery.  HisSpar'-'-  " s- ^^n   -^ 


,h  the  wi 


:  hei 


the  prey  of  dissolute  men  and  designing  women,  who  cheat, 
and  mock,  and  cnrmpt  him  day  by  Ay.  Kext  comes  the 
retribution,  which  sooner  or  later  marks  every  such 
ciner.  He  has  wasted  his  substance — the  gocd  gilts 
which  hia  felher  gave  him.  He  is  entsngl^l  in  debt, 
in  diseiaee,  in  ruin.  The  friends,  Che  telsa  friends, 
who  clnng  ronnd  him  as  long  as  he  had  money  to 
give  and  means  to  indulge  them,  tnm  against  him. 
He  ia  driven  into  the  wudemess  by  the  veiy  com- 
panionfl  who  before  were  to  him  the  choice  of  his  heart. 
Then  we  see  him  in  the  bare  desert.  His  finely  bas 
Mltn  in  tsttere  nboul  him.  He  ha^  been  trantformed 
into  the  emaciated,  hungry,  half-naked  outcast.  The 
filthy  swine  are  feeding  around  him  on  the  husks  of  the 
few  trees  that  fringe  the  arid  landseape.  He  is  the  very 
image  of  desolntion  and  misery.  But  there  ia  a  dawn  of 
better  things  just  visible.    lie  is  on  his  knees;  hia  eyes 

^m  which  we  have  not  diacemed  before.  He  is  aaying 
'I  will  arise  and  go  to  my  Father.'  Hohaa  seen  tbrongh 
the  hollowneia  of  the  pleasures  of  earth ;  he  bas  canght  a 
glimpse  of  the  happiness  of  heaven. — And  then,  in  the 
Bizth  and  last  picture,  there  ia  the  blessed  return.  The 
father  has  gone  ont  to  the  gateway  to  meet  and  embrace 
him.  The  penitent  youth  has  flung  himself  on  hb  knees 
before  him.  Those  eyes  which  we  saw  in  the  desert  pas- 
tures lifted  up  towaids  heaven  with  b  heavenly  light 
within  them,  have  still  the  lome  deep  pathetic  meaning ; 
but  they  are  now  fixed,  not  with  ■  vague  hope  on  in- 
finite apace,   but  with  a  yoomiug  '■~' 


'  tenderness   on  the 


fattici's  face  bending  close  over  him.  He  has  come  bock 
to  his  home,  and  all  the  dghts  and  sounds  of  borne  are 
around  him ;  the  familiar  calf  brought  forth  from  the 
stall',  the  servants  playing  the  merry  mnaic  which  he 
nmembentd  in  bis  childhood.  And  one  other  there  is, 
still  unchanged  also.  It  La  the  elder  brotherwitb  hia  un- 
ruffled dignity  and  his  unaCeined  integrity,  but  alra  with 
his  unmoved  countenance,  with  hia  cynical  wonder  that 
on  such  an  nnhappy  scapegrace — on  such  a  wild  and  law- 
less truant  shoold  be  lavished  so  much  care  and  love,  ae 
mach  triomph,  and  so  much  joy," 


CESTESARIANISM. 

RoBEBT  HowuBBOR,  aged  one  hundred  and 
three.  The  iaetancea  having  been  so  frequently 
recorded  in  the  public  joumala,  and  so  minutely 
eiamiaed  in  "  N.  &  Q.,"  the  place  and  date  of 
each  fresh  occurrence  ought  to  be  forthwith  laid 
before  ita  board  of  enquiry. 

In  last  Monday'a  Echo  (Jan.  23,  1871),  I  read 
the  pleasant  account  of  a  purse  of  twentv-fiva 
sovereigns  having  been  presented  to  Robert  "How- 
linson  of  West-Linton  in  Peebleshire  on  hia 
hundreii  and  third  birthday.  Most  cordially  do  I, 
who  am  in  humble  eipectancy  of  my  ninety-fourth^ 
wish  mj  venerable  senior  ''multos  et  felices," 
with  the  like  testimony  attached  to  every  one  of 
them,  E.  L.  S. 

[Would  some  Peeblesshire  correspondent  kindly  furnish 
the  evidence  of  Robert  Howlinson's  age  ?— Ed.] 

"William  Webb,  of  Frome.  aged  .one  hundred 
and  five  or  one  hundred  and  six. 

EswARn  Couch,  of  Torpoinl,  aged  one  hundred 


Here  is  freah  food  for  Mr.  Editor's  inqiiirieB. 
Williun  Webb  is  said  to  be  now  living  at  Frome, 
having  been  bom  there  in  1764;  served  in  the 
Marines  under  Nelson  between  1789  and  1797, 
and  their  returned  to  Frome,  where  be  was  mar- 
ried. Edward  Couch  ia  reported  to  have  died  at 
Torpoint  on  Jan.  30,  aged  one  hundred  and  ten ; 
was  on  board  the  Victory  at  Trafalgar,  with 
Lord  Howe  on  June  1,  and  in  receipt  of  a  pension 
up  to  the  tima  of  hia  death.  Surely  hia  story  is 
easily  tested.  W.  C. 

iAs  the  cases  are  so  "easily  tested,"  we  hope  W.  C 
.  nndartake  to  do  so.  Both  cases  msv  be  settled  pro- 
bably at  the  Admiralty.  If  it  is  our  good  fortune  to  come 
under  the  notice  of  any  gentleman  connected  with  that 
department,  perhaps  he  would  kindlv  inform  us  whec 
the  remids  there  tell  of  William  Webb  and  Edward 
Conch.— Ed.  "  N.  4  Q."] 


The  Strasburo  Libbaby. — Great  interest  i» 
felt  throughout  Germany  to  make  all  possible 
amends  to  Strasbtlrg  for  the  loss  of  ita  library, 
which,  in  its  reconstruction,  will  be  henceforth  a 
university  library.  A  suitable  locality  is  already 
provided,  and  means  ensured  for  obtFiming  earlj- 

Srinted  and  rare  works,  so  many  of  which  were 
estroyed  in  the  siege.    The  University  of  Berlin 


**  8.  VII.  Fbb.  11,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


121 


hoe  obtAined  pennisMoii  ftom  the  govenunent  to 
place  its  duplicates  at  the  service  of  the  libmn. 
Id  other  rarcunutancefl  tbeee  duplicates  would 
have  been  sold.  PromisM  have  been  Kcaived  of 
coDtribntiouB  from  tbo  UniTeraity  of  Gottingeii 
and  from  Dreeden  and  Bremen.  Munich  and 
Vienna  are  lihe-miaded,  and  the  Saxon  Sodetj  of 
Sdences  in  Leipzig  has  made  a  gift  of  all  its  pub- 
lications. The  German  booksellera  emulate  the 
teal  of  the  public  bodies ;  and  the  i^reat  housea  of 
Cotta,  Brockhaus,  Perthes,  Duncker  and  Hum- 
blot,  Saoerliinder,  &c.  &c.,  have  placed  their 
valuable  publications  at  free  choice  for  selection. 
Mr.  Trubner,  of  London,  -will  use  bis  best  efforts 
in  England  and  Ameiicaj  and  Dr.  Felix  Flug«l, 
of  Leipzig,  while  preaeating  a  valuable  contribu- 
tion from  his  own  ubrary,  baa  promised  to  interest 
lumself  with  the  Smithsonian  Institute  at  Wash- 
ington for  the  same  purpose.  All  this  is  quite 
natural  and  becoming  in  a  great  country  like 
Germany,  where  literature  is  so  highly  esteemed 
and  cullJTated,  and  which  intends  to  incorporate 
Stcasburg  with  the  empire.  J.  Macka.i. 

Gtpst  CooKERY.—During  the  past  summer  I 
pfud  freqnent  visits  to  a  gypsy  encampment  in 
my  neighbourhood,  and  upon  one  occasion  ob- 
serving- a  abapeleas  lump  of  clay  baking  upon  an 
open  lire-grate,  I  learned,  upon  inquiry,  that  it 
contained  a  fowl  in  process  of  cooking.  After  a 
while,  one  of  the  girls  removed  it  ^m  the  fire  ; 
and  on  brealoDg  it  open,  I  found  it  to  contain  a 
veritable  fovfl  with  the  feathers  sljll  on  it  Tbeae, 
however,  came  off  with  the  baked  claj,  and  left 
the  flesh  beautifully  white  and  streaming  with 
rich  gravy  from  countless  pores.  I  was  pressed 
to  pwtake,  but  the  untrussed  head  and  legs 
looked  so  like  those  of  a  fowl  which  had  died  a 
"  natural  death,"  that  I  civilly  declined  the  invi- 
tation, although  I  am  a  firm  believer  in  the 
adage  which  says  that  "Whatever  does  not 
poison  fattens."  M.  D. 

The  ScHooLMiBTBR  Abeoad  in  Staftoeb- 
SQiKB. — The  following  illustrations  of  "  life  in 
the  mining  districts"  are  too  good  to  be  confined 
to  the  pages  of  the  Staffbrdihiie  Adii^ieer .- — 

"One  of  the  blaok-conntrr  sheep  of  the  pr«ient  Biihop 
of  Licbfield'a  flock,  huriug  there  was  a  biahop  st  BtlnoD, 
and  not  knowing  piededy  -what  a  biahop  waa,  took  hia 
bull-pop  over  IVom  Wedneahm?  Tor  the  express  poipoae 
Of  tiTing  the  animars  mettle  upon  the  uev  comer,  an- 
nonncing  to  a  friend  that '  the  dawgg  would  pio  it,'  what- 
ever  it  turned  out  (o  be  I  " 

"FUial  J'iety.—TxTst  collier,  loqnitur:  'TherB'a  bin  a 
toin  [explosion}  at  Jacktoa'a  J)it8.'  Second  collier  : 
'  Hoy  reytlier  worked  theere.'  Ftnt  collier :  <  Oy,  and 
We  Mowed  ■'  to  pieces.'  Second  collier:  'Boygum! 
iihoy,  he'd  got  may  pocket-taioifb  wi'  'im ! ' " 

MoOKLAiio  Las. 

A  CoNTBiST,  I860  AifD  1871. —  In  looking 

tirough  the  Revae  Archioiogique,  vol.  xx.  (k.s,), 


p.  365, 1  find  the  followini^  entry  r^arding  the 
Anthropological  Society  of  Paris :  "  S^nce  du  16 
iuillat  18CS,  O^nSral  Faidhetbe,  Dolmens  et 
hommes  blonds  de  la  Libye." 

In  that  year  so  lately  passed  this  great  genent 
was,  therefore,  occupied  in  composing  and  reading 
an  antiquarian  and  philosophicnl  paperj/oufe <£ 
mieux.    Can  a  contrast  be  greater  f        H.  C.  C. 


__„ , -«v-  ^.  »— .  dancing,  ringing  of  old 

sonf^a,  and  the  play  of  the  Hobbf  Hunt.  The  latter 
play  was  in  existence  in  the  days  of  Cha  Flantageueta, 
and  probably  the  song  and  tnne  which  they  song,  viz., 
'  When  Join'a  ale  was  new.'  " 

This  paragraph,  from  the  Neioark  Advertiter  of 
Wednesday,  January  18, 1871,  may  be  deserving 
of  a  place  in  your  columns,  as  a  proof  of  &e 
continued  existence  of  a  very  andent  custom. 

Newark.  J.  M. 

Oli>  Jokes. — A  joke  is  not  out  of  place  in 
"  N.  &  Q.,"  and  if  I  find  any  which  appear  to  me 
new  or  rare,  I  will  send  them,  requesting  the 
Editor  to  reject  those  which  he  has  read  in  ten 
different  books  or  heard  bom  ten  different  persons. 
A  line  must  be  drawn  somewhere,  and  I  do  not 


another  "  one  of  the  best  things  Canning  ever 
s«ud."  He  and  Lord  Dudley  arrived  at  Dover 
from  France,  and  ordered  a  rumpsteak  while  the 
horsea  were  getting  ready  for  their  journey  to 
London.  Loid.  Dudley  remarked  that  the  meat 
was  hard.  "  Harder  where  there's  none,"  said 
Canning.  The  teller  laughed,  and  the  bearer 
courteously  made  a  noise  as  much  like  laughing 
as  he  could.  Had  a  new  pupil  at  Dotheboya  Ilall 
said  "  This  meat  is  bard,  his  companions  would 
probably  hare  abataiued  from  the  response  as  too 
stale. 

On  the  practice  of  repeating  stories,  I  take  the 
following  from  the  Ltverpool  Weekly  Mercury, 
May  25,  18C9:—  ■ 

"  The  Wilkinaon  fMinnesola)  anperior-  oonrt  baa  de- 
cided when  a  man  Illegally  drunk.  Said  the  judge  ;  'It 
is  not  neoesstrv  that  a  man  should  be  wallowing  in  a 
ditch,  or  bumping  his  head  againat  yOur  posia,  that  yo» 
I  may  know  him  to  bcdrnnk;  but  whenever  ho  beginalo 
'  tall  the  same  thing  over  twiee,  then  he's  dnmk.' " 

Garrick  Qub.  FlKHOPKINS. 

"SaBEBwe  DPOM  A  GlatbGiatten."— Thfl 
track  formed  upon  ice  by  sliding  is  called  in  the 
Fylde  district  of  North  Lancashire  a"glatt«n," 
the  act  of  sliding  is  termed  "flkerring,"  and  the 
word  "glave,"  instead  of  slippery,  is  used  to  ex- 
press the  quality  of  the  glatten.  I  should  be  glad 
to  know  whether  the  usage  of  the  above  terms  ia 
confined  to  the  Fylde,  or  that  they  prevml  in  I 
other  districts  P  Jakes  Pbaesok.  S  ' 

Hilnrow. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[l^S-VII,  Fra.  II,  71. 


SMTTHS  OF  IRELAND. 

In  the  course  of  1699  three  prelatea  of  the 
nkme  of  SmvUi  mt  on  the  Irish  episcopal  bench- 
Thomas  Bishop  of  Limerick,  William  of  Kilmore, 
and  Edward  of  Down  and  Connor;  and  all  the 
private  or  printed  pedigrees  I  haye  seen  make 
them  membera  of  one  family.  Three  Bereafords 
-were  Irish  Wshops  to(rether  for  a  considerable 
period;  and  althouKh  this  did  not  happen  with 
Hie  Sjnges,  yet,  except  between  1653  and  1660 
(when  no  Protestant  hishops  were  consecrated  in 
Ireland),  one  and  jrwierallT  two  S/nges  held  sees 
torn  1638  to  1771.  Still  the  fact,  aa  regards 
the  Smyths,  is  worth  noting.  Yet  I  am  not 
satisfied  that  they  were  of  the  same  family. 

It  is  true  that  they  and  their  descendants 
always  aasodated  on  the  footing  of  relatiTes,  but 
then  their  families  were  certainly  connected  by 
inaTris.gea.  They  were  bom  in  neighbouring  places: 
Dundmm  in  the  county  of  Down,  and  Lisbum  on 
the  borders  of  Down  and  Antrim.  But  whilst 
Archbishop  Henry  Ussher  married  Mary  Smyth 
of  Dundrum,  and  died  in  1613,  and  whilst  Celtic 
Smyths  can  be  traced  in  Antrim  a  century  earlier, 
the  pedigreea  make  the  episcopal  family  leave 
Rossdale,  near  Pickering,  temp.  Car.  I.  Primate 
Slargetson  came  from  Yorkshire  to  Ireland  as 
chaplain  to  the  unfortunate  Earl  of  Strafford, 
Lord-Deputy  in  1633.  John  Smyth,  his  brother- 
in-law,  was  Precentor  of  Clogher  in  that  year. 
He   died   rector   of  Enniskillen;    and   his    will, 

E roved  in  England  in  1655,  shows  him  to  have 
eld  property  in  Craven,  in  Yorkshire,  as  well  as 
in  Ireland;  whilst  bis  son's  eiecutor  William, 
Treaaurer  of  Armagh,  was  the  future  Bishop  of 
Elmore.  But  whilst  this  confirms  the  tradi- 
tionary descent,  he  and  the  Bishop  of  Down  also 
using  the  well-known  Yorkshire  coat  of  a  bend 
between  two  unicorns'  heads,  the  Biahop  of  Lime- 
rick bore  arms  almost  identical  with  tne  uncom- 
mon ones  of  the  contemporary  citizen  family  of 
SmythofHammersmith,created  baronets  in  1604; 
namely.  Rules,  a  lion  rampant  argent,  on  a  chief 
of  the  second,  a  mullet  azure  between  two  tor- 
teaux.  Can  any  genealogical  correspondent 
in  solving  these  doubts  P  ^ 

Warwick  Square,  S.W. 

P.S.  I  may  add,  in  reference  to  recent  notes 

the  spelling  of  Snujlh  {"  N.  &  Q 

vii.  43),  that  I  have  met  with  instances  of  two 
dola  placed  over  the  y  in  Smyth,  as  suggested 
by  Sp.  

Bishop  AicocE.— Wanted,  particulars  of  family 
and  arms  of  the  Bight  Kev.  John  Alcock,  at  first 
Bishop  of  Worcester  and  afterwards  of  Ely,  about 
1486.  J-  C. 

[Jobn  Alcock,  son  of  Waiiam  Alcock,  sometima  burgess 
of  KiogBton-npon-Hull,  and  Joan  his  wife,  was  Lorn  at 


Barerln',  and  ralmd  himself  entirelj'  by  hii  own  merit*. 
H*  atadied  at  Cambridge,  where  he  obtained  great  dis- 
tiaction  for  hli  hoowled^  of  dvil  and  common  law.  In 
1641  he  became  rector  (^  8t.  Harfcaret,  Fiah  Street, 
Loodon,  and  dean  of  St  Stephen's.  Westminnter ;  con- 
secrated biabop  of  RochesCei  in  1172  ;  in  U74  was  lord 
cbancel lor  conjoin tlv  with  Rotheram,  bithop  of  LincalD ; 


L    li7fi  t; 


a  iiee 


>  EIr. 


OoRI. 


,474; 


ieith  occumd  at  Wisbech  Caitle,  Oct.  1, 1500.  and 

be  waa  buried  in  a  aumptuons  chapel  he  bad  erected  for 
bimsdf  St  the  north-eaat  end  of  Ely  CatbedTsl.  Bis 
arms  were  A.  on  a  chevron  betweeo  B  cocks'  beads  erased 
8.  crested  and  Jalli^  G.  a  mitre  O.] 

BiLLTCUtrrur.  —  Will  your  obliging  corre- 
spondent Mk.  MAinticB  Lbnihui,  or  any  of  the 
numerous  readers  of  "N.  ft  Q."  favour  me  with 
the  following  information :  — 

1.  What  IS  the  present  name  of  Ballycollitan, 

or    BALLIOULLAIAlf,    AITNA    OT    ABBA,    CO.    TlppS- 

rary? 

2.  It  is  said  that  William  Cleburne  (second  son 
of  Thomas  Cleburne  of  Cleburne,  co.  Westmore- 
land, by  Agnes  Lowther  of  Lowther),  who  died 
seized  of  the  lands  of  Ballicullatan,  Castletown, 
Bumaduhber  and  Springmouut,  lies  buried  in  Kil- 
barron  church  or  abbey  (P)  near  Lough  Derg, 
and  that  there  is  a  vault  in  the  chancel  under 
the  east  window  bMring  the  following :  — 

Orett,  A  dove  and  olive  branch, 
Armt.  Arg.  three  chevronels  braced  in  base, 
B&.    A  chiefsnd  bordure  of  the  last. 
Motio.  "  Pax  et  Copia." 

OVLIELlCnB  .   CLBBITRKB   .  DB  .  BILLICULLITAK  . 
ABXIOEB  .  OBIIT  .  VICGSmo  .  SECIiyilO  .  DIB  . 
HEBSIS  .  OCTOBBia  .  AMKO  .  DOUINI  .  16S4. 


wife  and  children  P 

3.  Was  Patrick  Ronayne,  the  s*tiat,  a  near 
relative  of  Patrick  Ronayne  of  Annebrook,  Queens- 
town,  CO.  Cork  f  NlUBOD. 

Pbdiobeb  of  Pbtbb  Bibt. — I  shall  be  very 
grateful  for  any  information  relative  to  the  parent- 
a«e  of  Peter  Birt  of  Armine,  co.  York,  and 
Wenvoe  Castie,  co.  Glamorgan.  lie  bor«  the 
same  arms  as  Byrte  of  Dorset,  and  Birt  of  Llwyn- 
Djrua,  CO.  Cardigan — vis.  Ai^.  on  a  chevron 
gules  between  three  hugle-horns  stringed  sable ; 
as  many  crosses  crosslet  fltch^e  of  the  field. 

FoRESI-BILL. 

"Blitr  Books"  uroTBD  bt  Butler.— Where 
are  the  "  Blue  Books  "published  bv  Stockdale  in 
1813,  and  quoted  by  Charles  Butler  in  his  Me- 
moiri  of  Engliih  Caiholici  (iv.  66, 57),  to  be  seeu  f 
Also,  what  is  known  of  the  "  Red  Book,"  a  work 
in  MS.,  quoted  in  the  same  place  P  They  appear 
to  have  first  made  their  appearance  about  1780. 

A  HBRT02D~l>^EaOB-J    , 

London  Library.  \  ^^i  .  V^iOOy  IL 


*»  3.  Til,  Fbb.  11, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


123 


Db  Sah  OB  Sat.— Thi*  funily  derives  from  tm 
■nceator  who  accompuiied  William  Uie  acqnltor 
(cot  the  conquerot  m  modem  Mose,  vhicti  was 
JQst  the  last  thing  he  woold  have  dadred  to  be 
called)  from  Noimandy. 

Can  aaj  of  jour  learned  coTMapondenta  give 
me  any  iiuonnation  aa  to  thiB  ftimilj  previona  to 
the  cououeat,  and  elao  aa  to  ita  two  hranchea  — 
one  in  England  and  the  other  in  Scotland,  where 
«ome  suppose  it  to  be  the  origin  of  the  great  familj 
of  Seton,  Saytoune,  Seftoun,  &c. ;  ^though,  as 
the  latter  claim  from  Doanil  de  Seton  \circa 
1100),  which  ia  s  Highland  Christian  name,  that 
presents  a  difficulty.  Thia  Doug^l  is  said  to  have 
been  the  son  or  grandson  of  the  fifst  of  the 
8etonB  ButhenticalFy  recorded.  Lord  Say  and 
Selo  derives  from  De  Say  in  the  female  line, 

OUM. 

Thb  ".EsTAnci"  OF  Caldaito. — Can  any  of 
jonr  lesdera  refer  me  to  any  sourcea  of  informa' 
Uon  Tegarding  the  Ettatica  of  Caldano,  whose 
case  (as  I  learn  from  the  article  "  Stigmatisa- 
tion,"  Chamhers't  EncychpacUa)  attracted  much 
ettentioQ  about  thirty  years  ago  P  U.  S. 

"FBntAT  Tbbe." — I  have  met  with  this  ex- 
pression as  being  applied  in  the  South  of  France 
to  an  unBucceasful  undertaking  or  person.  Do 
you  know  of  any  authority  for  it  P  A.  S, 

"The  Gbecian  Bend." — What  is  the  clasuc 
sothority,  if  any,  for  this  expresraonP  The  edi- 
tors of  Hans  Breitmann's  BaBoib  seem  to  think 
it  quite  modem,  as  they  call  it — 
"  A  ncenC  Paris  f^ibian,  at  once  adopted  Id  America. 
It  is  tbe  curve  made  at  tha  back  of  the  bodj',  when 
a  female  carriea  henelf  as  if  vslking  in  a  perjlltnal 

hut  more  than  half  a  century  ago  tbe  term  was 
in  uae,  as  will  be  seen  in  the  Efoniait  (iii.  57)  :~- 
"  Id  person  be  was  of  the  commoD  uze,  with  >ame- 
tbing  of  thu  Crecuin  btad,  contncted  doabtleu  ftom 
Kdeotarr  babita." 

W.  T.  M. 

Hbrteus.  —  Will  Aifow-ScoTUB,  Espedake, 
or  other  learned  antiquarian  correspondent  of 
"  N.  &  Q.,"  oblige  me  with  the  ancestry  of  Her' 
vey,  or  Hemey,  I)uke  of  Orleans  a.ii.  1066  ? 

As  this  dudiy  was  vested  in  the  family  of 
Robert  the  Strong  from  A.n.  888,  I  presume  any 
Duke  of  Orleans  of  tenth  or  eleventh  centuries 
must  have  been  a  member  of  the  royal  family  of 

2.  The  ancestry  of  the  house  nf  Mtz-Hugh  P 
Lower  (Patron.  Brit.  p.  18)  states  that  this  sur- 
name was  not  used  until  temp.  Edw.  III.  Yet 
Graves,  in  his  ni>t.  of  Cleveland,  states  that  Hugh 
(great  grandson  of  Alice  de  Stavelv)  "  died 
^  Edw.  L,  leaving  a  son  Henry,  who  being  called 
Fitz-Hugb,  continued  that  name  till  4  Hen.  VJU., 
when  George  Rtz-Hugh  died,"  and  the  name 


became  extinct.  I  also  find  that  Adam  de  Hervey, 
temp.  Hen.  HI.,  married  Juliana,  daughter  of 
John  de  Fitz-Hugh.  According  to  Lower,  Bat- 
dolph  was  the  first  of  the  fomuy  of  Fiti-Hugh. 
His  arms,  however,  were,  Azure,  three  mqneftnls 
argent;  while  those  of  the  latter  were,  Azme, 
three  chevronels  interlaced  in  base,  or.  A  chief 
of  the  last. 

Tbe  early  history  of  the  Herveys  seems  to  be 
involved  in  obscuritv.  Robert,  son  of  Hervey  or 
Hernev,  Duke  of  Orleans,  ia  said  to  have  had 
seueroi  sons,  but  we  are  left  to  conjecture  whom 
they  are  from  a  number  of  Anglo-Norman  Her- 
veys of  the  eleventh  centuiy.  Hervey,  Marquis 
of  Bristol,  and  the  Clibums  of  Clibum-Hervey, 
are  sfud  to  be  descended  from  Hmvous  filius 
Hervei,  Forrester  of  the  New  Forrest  and  Archels- 
garth,  18  Hen.  I.,  who  ia  also  claimed  as  the 
ancestor  of  the  Butlers.  Vide  Olarke'a  Hist,  of 
Home  of  Ormonde,  But  there  seenis  to  be  some 
doubt  whether  the  father  of  this  Herveus  was  of 
the  Orleans  family,  or  a  younger  son  of  Gilbert  de 
Clare.  Will  some  correspondent  of  "  N.  &  Q." 
be  kind  enough  to  inform  me  to  wliich  of  the 
Hervevs  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Clibum,  near 
Penriln,  was  granted,  and  when,  and  by  whom 
vras  tha  'grant  made  P  In  the  Rpe  Boll  6th  of 
Stephen,  Herveus  fil  Hervei  pays  a  fine  for  erecting 
his  lands  in  Amoundreuesa  into  manors.  Waa 
Clibum  one  of  these  P  Ndibod. 

The  Hole  in  the  Well. — ^There's  a  very  old 
inn  near  the  East  Gate,  King's  Lynn,  called  the 
Hoh  in  the  WeS — a  ratber  remarkable  sign,_  it 
appears  t*  me.  Tbe  best  chance  I  see  of  solutjon 
or  cluB  is  a  query  in  your  pages.  What  is  the 
origin  of  itP  K.  L. 

[There  were  fonnerlv  in  LoodoD  tbree  taverns witb  the 
aiguofHolsintba  WoU";  but  "  Hole  in  the  Well "  is 
unknonn  in  the  history  of  aign-boards.] 

Burial  Places  of  Maux  Bishops. — In  tbe 

Chronicle  of  Man  the  burial-places  of  fourteen 
Manx  bishops  are  recorded.  Does  any  other  re- 
cord of  their  burials  exist  bendes  the  chronicle, 
or  are  any  remains  of  their  tomba  to  be  found  r 
Two,  Christinus  and  Nicholas,  were  buried  at 
Benchor,  by  which  is  meant.I  suppose,  the  monas- 
tery of  St.  Comhgall  in  Ulster,  for  there  were 
several  monasteries  of  that  name,  one  even  in  the 
Isle  of  JMan.  Uichnel  was  interred  at  Fountmoa, 
Regieald  or  Ronald  at  Eushin,  also  a  Cistercian 
abbey  and  daughter  of  Fumess ;  Richard  and 
Wilham  Russell  at  Fumess ;  Simon  and  Mark  at 
St  German's,  Peel,  Isle  of  Man,  where  nothing, 
or  next  to  nothing,  has  been  done  in  reference 
to  those  interesting  ruina,  though  a  bazaar  under 
high  patronage  was  held  for  the  purpose  of  rais- 
ing the  necessary  means.  John  M'lvar,  or  son  of  I 
Before,  was  buried  at  Jervaux,  as  Prof.  Miinoh, ' 
rightly  supposed,  and  not  at  Yarmouth,  aa  John- 


124 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4»  a  VII.  Feb.  II,  71. 


atone  had  erroneouBly  conjectured.  Gamaliel  vaa 
buried  ftt  Fetecboroagh,  Thomas  at  Scone,  Ber- 
nard at  Kylwynir,  swd  by  Cumming  in  biililt  of 
Man  to  be  Arbroath,  by  Oliver  in  hie  Monummta 
la.  Man.  to  be  in  Ayrshire.  Alan  and  Gilbert 
M'Cleland  were  buried  at  St.  Mary's,  Rothsay, 
Isle  «f  Bute.  Wimund  or  Hamund,  whose  event- 
ful hfatorr  is  involved  in  much  obscurity,  wafl 
seen  by  the  h^rian  William  of  Newboroug-h, 
blinded  and  mutilated  at  Byland  Abbey,  living 
retired,  but  where  he  died  is  not  stated.  John 
Doean  died  Bishop  of  Down  in  1412,  and  was 
pronahly  buried  in  Ireland.  A.  E.  L. 

M1BSA1.B  AD  Usuic  LiUBAiniEHSBH. — Tlie  Vau- 
dois  Cantonal  Ltbraiy  at  Lausanne  possesses  a 
lare  miasal.  At  the  end  ia  printed  ia  red  chanc- 
ten  — 

■■  Imprusa  liniuiB  nrbe  antiqaunma  Impcaia  iitc  et 
takdiutrl*  lolertis  et  inEeoioti  viri  Migittri  iohannis 
b«lot  ioaigni  ciiitate,  mthamagea  ortum  ducentis  anlla 
calimi  extrationB;  sed  qoadam  aitificioaa  characteri- 
landi  ac  Imprioiendl  inventiane  missalia  somnia  cum 
dlllgontia  emcndsta  felidler  finiunL  Anno  ealulis  nostra, 
U.cccc.  Tionagalma  tirtio.  Kalcadaa  decembriiui  sedeou 
ttveraidisBimo  premie  Aymone  de  moatefalcone  laaMO : 
•po;  et  comile  principeque  imptris  dlgninsimo." 

The  above  miflsal  is  a  folio  in  Gothic  letters, 
ted  and  black,  double  columns,  thirty-six  lines  in 
a  page,  woodcuts,  has  a  drawing-  made  with  a 
pen.    Some  of  the  leaves  are  soiled,  and  the  mar- 

Ci  have  been  mended ;  the  title  ia  waatiug,  and 
been  supplied  by  one  which  belongs  to  a  missal 
printed  at  Lyons,  1S22.  John  Belot  was  a  printer 
at  Rouen.    What  other  works  did  he  imue  ? 

Jambs  IIbnbt  Dieon. 

LiDT  M.  WoBTLBT  MoMT-tGc's  Letters. — In 
his  Cttrioeiliea  of  Lilcrature,  under  the  section 
"Recovery  of  Jlanuscripta,"  Mr.  Isaac  D'Jsraeli 
says,  "A  considerable  portion  of  Lady  Mary 
Wortley  Montagu's  letters  I  discovered  in  the 
handa  of  an  attorney." 

Can  you  or  any  of  yoor  correspondents  inform 
mo  whether  these  letters,  which  I  presume  were 
different  from  the  well-known  letters  already 
(riven  to  the  public  in  1775,  have  ever  been  pub- 
lished P  TiTRXEr  Rkd. 

Theodosia  Noel.  —  Edward  Cecil,  Viscount 
Wimbledon,  married  Theodosia  Noel,  daughter  of 
Sir  Andrew  Noel,  Knt,  of  Dalbj,  co.  Leicester. 
-.  Was  she  an  heiress,  and  what  arms  would  she 
'learP  J.  C. 

'  Pdubtos  Familt. — What  family  had  Edward 
Fnljston  of  Allington,  co.  DenlnKb,  besides  bta 
daughter  Eleanor,  who  married  William  Wheler 
of  Martin  Hussingtree?  Edward  Puliston  was 
married  about  the  year  1500.  K.  W. 


"  TSo  pent-np  Ithaea  contracts  yonr  po«en. 
But  the  whole  bonudlcM  Coatioeat  is  yooia." 
[From  H.  gcwall'ii  Prologue  to  Cati.] 
"  In  the  fierce  light  that  beats  upon  the  thraoe." 
[From  Tennyson's  X>tdicatb>H  o/Ihe  Idj/lli.'] 

F. 
"  Whose  ycstecdaya  look  backwards  with  a  Bmile, 
Nor,  like  the  Parthitaa,  wound  him  as  they  fly." 
Where  do  these  Unea  occur  P  P.  E.  N. 

RiKBLAQH,  Wilts,  etc — Where  can  I  find 
information  as  to  the  marriage  settlements,  wills, 
&0.,  of  the  Cotes,  barons  of  Rimelagb  of  Newlands, 
CO.  Dublin ;  and  of  the  family  of  Goring  of  Cam- 
bridgeshire or  HuDtingdonshira  F 

AB&ramtEB. 

Thb  Robe  op  the  Wall,  NoETHikpTOH.— 

"  At  the  Bouth-west  comer  of  the  chnrelij-ard,  built  ioto 
the  vail  of  a  cottage,  is  a  crucifix,  apjiarently  the  top  of 
a  cross.  The  same  design  is  repeatecl  on  the  other  aide. 
Thsre  are  marks  of  buUeta  in  it.  Could  thu  have  ori- 
ginally formed  the  apex  of  Queen's  Cross  ?  " 

So  wrote  the  late  Mr.  Pretty  in  Wetton's  Norih- 
ampton  Guide.  The  crucifix  ia  still  there,  rebuilt 
into  the  wall  of  the  house  which  superseded  the 
cottage,  Mr.  Pretty,  a  careful  and  conscientious 
antiquary,  in  all  probability  saw  it  when  it  was 
taken  down ;  otherwise  it  would  not  be  easy  to 
know  that  the  sculpture  was  repeated  on  the 
other  aide.  The  fact  that  it  was  ao  supports  tha 
conjecture  that  it  may  have  been  the  crowning 
stone  to  Queen's  Cross.  But  in  "  The  King's  Book 
of  Payments,"  1511  (Letters  and  I'npert,  Foreign 
€tBdJ)omeslic,  in  the  Reign  of  Henry  VIII.j  vol.  ii. 
part  II.),  is  ao  entry  purporting  that,  on  Ang.  3, 
the  king  was  at  Pypwell  Abbey ;  and  among  tha 
expenses  between  tlist  time  and  the  lOlh,  wera 
"  offerings  at  the  Rode  of  the  Wall  in  Northamp- 
ton, at  Our  Lady  of  Grace  there,  and  at  coming  to 
Leicester  Abbey."  "Our  Lady  of  Grace''  was 
the  church,  long  since  destroyed,  of  the  Blessed 
Virgin  in  St.  Maiy  Street.  Ta  it  possible  that 
the  sculpture  in  St  Sepulchre's  Churchj&id  was 
the  "  Rode  of  the  Wall "  of  the  chnreh  in  St 
Mary's  Street?  Wben  the  church  was  destroyed, 
the  materials  were  no  doubt  used  for  other  biuld- 
iugs,  and  the  distance  from  St.  Mary's  Street  to 
St  Sepulchre's  Churchyard  ia  not  considerable. 
I  am  not  aware  that  any  mention  of  "  The  Rode 
of  the  WaU  "  occurs  in  any  history  of  Northamp- 
or  in  any  place  but  the  "  King's  Book  of 
Payments."  G.  J.  Db  Wiujk. 

SivB  AND  THE  Whitebots. — In  the  Correi'pon- 
dence  of  the  Right  Son.  Edmand  Burke  (i.  41),  I ' 
find  the  following  in  the  postscript  of  a  letter  by 
Chief  Justice  Aston  to  Mr.  Secretary  Hamilton, 
and  dated  Dublin,  June  34, 1762,  with  regard  to 
certain  secret  societies  of  the  period :  — 


(•aVILPffl.  11,71.] 


NOTES  AND  Q0ERIBS. 


125 


"  If  hen  411  oath  ma  inqrawd  on  any,  it  mw  to  be  tnts 
to  Sive  And  her  chTldren  ^  md  not  to  oiflcorer  any  of  ^a 
Whitaboja,  her  children."' 

Who  WM  SiveF  And  how  did  the  name 
originate,  and  has  it  anj  connection  vith  [Siva]  the 
Hindoo  oiTinitjfthe  goddess  of  deettucttonf    H. 

Slavxenbebsiub's  "Trkatibb  oh  Noses."— 
Who  was  Shtwlranbergiufi  mentioned  in  TWstram 
Shandy,  and  is  there  such  a  book  as  his  Treatise 
on  Notetf  EoinraD  M,  Botlb. 

SSIa«kenb«rghu  la  altogether  an  imaginoiT'  perun, 
there  does  not  esiit  anv  snch  Tnatut  on  Soti  by 
him.  Steme'a  learning  and  hiunmir  apon  that  sabject 
are  believed  to  haTe  be^  bu^onred  partly  ftom  firaaiiius's 
C(JlaqD}r  between  Pamphagns  and  Cocke,  Dt  CaptamdU 
Sactrdotiit,  and  portly  Trom  the  Iffaiia  <^Aretine.  See 
fintbn  Ferriar  oh  Sttme,  p.  Ifil  el  itq.'\ 
Smith,  aHat  Hebiz  op  Withooie,  Leicesxer- 

8HIBE:  SUYTH  07  RATBCOITSSEr,  CO.  COSX.  — 
Could  you  or  any  of  your  correapondenla  kindly 
fumish  the  connecting  link  between  the  abore 
bnuliee?  The  first  tiAce  I  havB  of  the  Irish 
branch  is  taken  firom  a  MS.  in  Trinity  College, 
Dahlin,  relative  to  the  marriage  of  "  Francis 
Smith  of  Kathcouraey  with  Msna,  d'  of  Beverly 
Daher  of  Fidanes,  co.  Waterford,  Esq."  Date 
not  given,  but  might  be  about  1670.  The  first 
bnrial  I  have  any  note  of  is  that  of  their  child 
Mary,  aged  three  months,  who  died  1676,  and 
must  have  been,  I  think,  the  first  that  took  place 
in  this  country,  ta  an  inscribed  slab  of  marble 
marked  her  burial-place  in  Gloyne  CathedraL 

The  writer  has  the  original  ^ant  of  arms  to 
Wm,  Smyth  als.  Heriz— vii.  "He  beareth  gules, 
a  chevron  golds  betwiit  three  beaaunts,  upon  the 
chevron  three  crassei  forme  pyched  sable,  A.I). 
1^9."  And  to  Roger  S.  or  Heriz,  giant  of  crest — 
"  Upon  his  helmet,  on  a  torse  gold  and  geules, 
an  arm  couppti,the  sieve,  party  per  pale  golds  and 
geules,  holduig  in  bis  hand  a  griffin's  bead  rased 
azsre,  bekid  golde,  langued,  eyed  and  ered  geulee, 
ic,"  7th  of  Elizabeth,  1665  or  8. 

Any  information  will  be  thankfully  received  by 
John  J.  Smtth, 

Balhcoarsey,  Ballinacarra,  oo.  Cork. 

SiORToF  aStatcb. — iHaniBEE  wishes  to  know 
can  any  of  your  correspondents  inform  him  where 
he  can  find  the  following  legend  or  piece  of 
poetry? — A  lover,  about  to  be  married,  on  the 
day  preceding  the  weddini^  puts  the  ring  on  a 
^ure  in  the  garden,  and  when  he  goes  for  it  it  is 
^thcr  stolen  or  he  is  unable  to  getitolT.andnfter- 
waida  he  is  haunted  by  the  statue,  &c.  Also, 
who  is  the  author  of  the  piece  F 

[Our  correspondent  probably  refers  to  a  jwem  bv 
Moore  originally  publUbed  Bmong  his  Jmeiult  Focmi 
entitled  "  The  King,"  a  tale,  which  will  be  fbuad  at  p.  281 
vf  the  one  viJome  edition  of  Moore's  FotHcal  Worii. 
Hooie  appears  to  havD  founded  It  upon  a  story  told  by 
Oe  German  writer  Frommann  in  his  work  upon  FaKiaa- 
iiM,  book  "1.  j>t.  vi.  ch,  jcviii,  wbila  Frommann  quotes  as 


:  III.  pt.  T 
tJtvTino 


t  de  BeanTaia.1 


THE  DRAGON. 
(4"'  S.  vii.  12.) 

The  earliest  known  delineations  of  the  dragon 
are,  I  believe,  Chinese.  It  is  represented  with 
four  legs  in  all  the  early  specimens  I  hsve  seen. 
The  following  note  is  taken  feomMarrjat's  if irfory 
of  Policy  and  Porcelam,  p.  217,  on  the  word 
"  dragon  " ; — 

"  Tlie  origin  of  the  dragons  and  dmilar  figuree  de- 
picted npon  the  Chinese  as  well  as  the  Egyptian  pottery 
ia  a  mystery.  The  Chinese  carry  back  the  oririn  to  the 
time  of  Fuh-be  (b.c  2962>,  who  is  supposed  to  have 
?een  a  dragon  Issae  from  a  river  in  the  province  of 
Uonan,  and  it  was  then  adapted  as  the  natiuual  standard. 
It  is  this  dragon  (Lang)  wbicb  is  yearly  honoaied  by  the 
'  Feast  of  Lanterns.'  Some  writers  suppose  the  dragon  to 
be  a  symbolical  representation  of  the  principle  of  evil, 
which  was  worshipped  by  the  ancient  CbaJdees,  and 
fonnd  its  way  fVom  thence  into  China  and  other  coun- 
tries, even  to  the  New  World,  where  their  religion  ex- 
tended ;  and,  from  being  Bist  used  as  a  symbol,  came  in 
time  to  be  considered  as  a  reality.  Christian  painters 
seem  to  have  literally  adopted  this  idea,  as  in  the  pictiirea 
of  St.  Uichael,  who  is  represented  s^  having  felled  to 
the  ground  and  fixed  witn  bis  lance  a  dragon,  which, 
symbolical  of  the  enemy  ofthe  human  rac«,  was  vomited 
from  the  infernal  pit.  In  the  Komisb  Church,  on  Itoga- 
lion  Sunday  until  a  late  period,  a  large  d;;ure  of  a 
dragon  was  carried  in  procession,  being  considered  on 
emblem  of  heresy.  The  devil,  it  will  bo  recollecttd,  is  fre- 
quenlly  called '  the  dragon '  in  Scripture.  The  prevalence 
ofdracontic  omameols  on  andent  sculpture  in  Kn^land 
uf  the  Saxon  or  early  Norman  period,  as  also  in  Ireland, 
as  well  as  the  serpent  ornamentation  of  the  Xorthetn 
aniiquarics,  deserves  notice.  Fosaibly  the  origin  "f  the 
former  may  have  been  Oriental.  On  the  oilier  band 
some  writers  consider  the  dragon  to  be  no  mere  legend, 
and  refer  to  the  fossil  remmnsofthe  Saurian  tribe,  which, 
allowing  for  some  exaggeration  and  emballialiment,  may 

It  is  remarkable  that  both  Cornwall  and  Brit- 
tany should  have  those  twin  St.  Michael  Mounts 
guurdlng  (as  it  were)  their  cosslii.  Has  the  esta- 
blishment of  those  churches  an;  connection  with 
a,  conquest  achieved  by  Cliriatiauity  over  the  ser- 
pent worship  which  prevailed  in  those  parts, 
signs  of  which  may  to  this  day  be  traced  on  both 
sides  of  the  Channel  P  Z.  Z. 

The  earliest  delineations  of  the  dragon  partook 


long  serpentine  toil.     In  the  eatty  figures^ 
legs  were  much  u 


chiefly  of  the  character  of  a  sen)ent,  having  gene- 
rally a  long  serpentine  toil.     In  ''         '    " 
of  the  drag* 


than  four. 


F.  C.  H. 


There  is  a  picture  of  a  sea-dragon  {Draco  mari- 
nia)  in  an  edition  of  Dioecoridee  of  the  date  1543. 
But  it  has  no  legs  apparently  ^  only  twppaiis  of 
mngs  and  a  long  tail  cleft  at  the  tip,  Mid  set  with 
a  row  of  poisonous  thorns.  There  is  a  stnmg 
horo,  too,  between  its  eyes.  If  a  sea-dragon 
were  but  the  tadpole  of  a  land-dragon,  IS,  D.'e 


126 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*a8.VII.  Fra.!!,*?!. 


SoestioD  could  be  dosweied  at  once,  £)r  of  course 
le  tul  would  in  that  cfue  be  ezcbuiged  for  two 
pairt  of  leg$  m  due  coone,  aftei  the  orthodox 
tadpole  fftsbioD.  Maboabsi  O^itt. 

The  earliest  delineation  of  this  beast  seems  to 
be  that  of  the  "  Dragon  Standard  "  of  the  Bajeux 
tmiestrj.  This  is  figured  by  Mr.  PUnchS  at  p.  98 
(^biaPursuiBanto/Arms.  It  has  f  too  legs.  Notices 
of  the  dragon  ue  found  in  Farker's  Ghttary, 
Willement,  and  Montagu.  J.  C.  KoasB. 


BUIPLEBS. 

(4'^S.  Ti.500i  TU.21.) 

The  lines  worked  od  a  sampler,  and  inquired 

about  bj  J.  A,  Vs.,  are  about  tlie  comnioneet  to 

be  met  with  in  this  youthful  kind  of  art.    The 

second  line,  however,  has  been  adapted  to  suit 

the  young  tadj'a  name.   It  usually  stands  thus : — 

"  Jesus,  permit  thy  graoiom  oamB  to  aUad 

As  the  first  etTort  ofa  fonthful  hand,"  &c 

I  feel  some  difficulty  in  signing;  my  initiak 
and  terminals  happening  to  be  exactly  those  of 
your  correspondent,  J.  A,  Pd.  (2), 

I  have  before  me  two  very  pretty  old  spedmens 
of  aamplers,  worked  respectively  by  my  wife's 
grandmother  and  my  own.  To  begin  with  hers, 
it  contains  within  a  maisin  of  carnations,  first, 
the  Lord's  Prayer,  and  tben,  in  three  divisions, 
the  following  posies :  — 

"  During  the  time  of  life  sUolted  me. 
Grant  me,  good  God,  roy  health  and  liberty : 
I  beg  no  mora  ;  if  more  tbou'rt  pless'd  to  give, 
I'll  thanklHilly  the  overplnB  receive." 


"  A  man  that  doth  on  riches  nt  bia  mind 
Strivea  to  taKe  holit  na  shadowt  and  the  wind ) 
With  food  and  raiment  then  contented  be  j 
Aek  Dot  for  riches,  nor  for  poverty." 

"  AnH   STOUUAEr 

nnlahcd  this  sampler  in  the  tenth  year  of  her  age,  in 
the  year  of  cur  Lord  God  ><I)CCI[.viil" 
My  own  grandmother's  is  rather  more  elabor- 
ately ornamented  with  lions  (blue,  red,  and  yellow) 
and  magnificent  fiowerinj;  shrubs;  but  only  con- 
tains, besides  alphiibets,  the  following  song :  — 
"  You  whose  fond  wishes  do  to  heaven  aspire. 
Who  make  those  bleat  abodes  your  sole  desire. 
If  yon  are  wise,  and  hope  that  bliss  to  gain. 
Use  vtell  your  time,  live  not  an  honr  in  vain  ; 
Let  not  the  morrow  voor  vain  tbouphla  employ. 
Bat  think  this  day  the  lost  yon  shall  enjoy. 
"  SoFUU  Halbet  her  work,  1751." 

C.  W.  BiNanAM. 

I  have  three  samplers  worked  by  my  mother, 
■■  —  ■  ef  ^lich  ate  iiBM,  almoat  word  for  word. 


similar  to  those  quoted  by  J.  A.  Ph.  AndasM.1). 

(V^  S.  vi.  600)  su^ests  the  idea  that  such  con- 
tributions to  "  N.  &  Q."  "  would  not  be  deToid  of 
interest,  I  send  those  on  the  other  two  samplers : 
"  From  my  beginning  may  the  Alnunhty  Powers 
BleeslDgs  bestow  in  never^xaaing  showers  1 
Ob  I  may  I  happy  be  and  always  bicet, 


"  If  yon  desire  to  worship  God  aright, 
Fint  in  tlie  moming  pray,  and  last  at  night  s 
^ ...  ,.,.  v.™. ,,1. ,  j^ 


COBNISH  SPOKEN  IN  DEVONSHIRE. 

(4**  S.  YU.  11.) 

Your  correspondent  wiU  find  in  Frofeasoi  Max 

Muller's  recently  published  (vol.  iii.)  Ch^  from 

a  Oerman  Worfahop  a  verf  interesting  account  of 

the  Cornish  language  and  its  vitality.  He  says : —  - 

"  Although  Caniish  most  now  be  clussad  with  the  ex- 
tinct langasges.  It  has  certainly  shown  a  marrelloua 
vitality.    More  than  four  handredyearsof  Roman  occu- 

gitioD,  more  than  six  hundred  years  of  Saxon  and 
■Dish  sway,  a  Korman  conquest,  a  Saxon  reformation, 
and  civil  wars  have  all  passed  over  the  land ;  bat,  like  a 
tree  that  may  bend  before  a  storm  bat  is  not  to  be  rooted 
np,  the  language  of  the  Celts  of  Cornwall  has  lived  on  io 
■n  unbrokea  continuity  for  >l  least  2000  years.  What 
does  this  mean?  It  means  that  throagh  the  whole  of 
English  history  to  the  aocenion  of  the  House  of  Hanover 
the  inhabitants  of  Cornwall  and  the  acittn  pottinn  of 
DeamAire,  in  spite  of  iutermarriages  with  Romany 
Saxone,  end  Normans,  were  Celts  and  remained  Celts. 
The  inhabitaots  of  Cornwall,  whatever  tb«  num- 
ber of  Roman,  Saxon,  Danidi,  or  Norman  settlers  within 
the  boundaries  of  that  county  may  have  been,  continued 
to  be  Celts  as  long  as  they  spoke  Cornish.  They  ceased 
to  be  Celts  when  they  ceased  to  speak  the  language  of 
their  forefalhen.  Those  who  can  appreciate  the  cbamis 
of  genuine  antiquity  will  not,  therefore,  lind  fault  with 
the  enthusiasm  of  Daines  Barriogton  or  Sir  Joseph 
Bonks  in  listening  to  the  strange  utterances  of  Dolly 
Pentreath;  for  her  language,  if  genuine,  carried  them 
back  and  brought  them,  as  it  were,  into  immediflta  con- 
tact with  people  who.  long  before  the  Christian  era, 
aeted  an  important  part  on  the  stage  of  history,  supply- 
ing the  world  with  two  of  the  most  precious  metals, 
more  precious  then  than  cold  or  sliver — nith  copper  and 
tin — the  very  materials,  it  niay  be,  of  the  finest  works  of 
art  in  Greece,  ay,  of  Ibe  armour  wrought  for  the  hemes 
of  the  Trojan  war,  as  described  so  minutely  by  the  poets 
oftbe/Ziorf." 

Dr.  Bannister  is  collecting  materials  for  a  glos- 
sary of  Cornish  proper  names,  and  has  collected 
no  less  than  24(K)  existing  ueimea  with  Tre,  000 
withPen,with40UiiM,&e.,  and  thus  Cornish  lives 
on.  Andrew  Bocde  tells  us  {lemp.  Hen,  VUL) 
that  English  was  not  then  understood  by  many 
people  in  Cornwall.  Devon  and  Comish  men 
signed  a  petition  to  that  king  against  the  intro- 
duction of  a  new  church  service  composed  in 


4*8.Tn.  Pra.il,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


127 


Engliah,  in  whicli  Uiis  fact  is  also  mentioned. 
Bo^su,  in  his  Naf.  Sitl.  of  Cormnoa  (315),  says 
that  as  Uto  as  1640  Mr.  William  Jackmao,  the 
vicar  of  Feock,  was  obliged  to  admimater  Uie 
aftcnunent  in  Corniab  becnuae  the  aged  people  did 
not  uadetatoud  Enfrlisb,  and  the  iiectoi  of  Lande- 
wednakpieached  liia  sermona in  Comish  as  late  as 
1676.  The  keeper  of  the  Ashmolean  Muaeum, 
Ut.  E.  Lhuyd,  pablisbed  a  grammar  of  tlie  lon- 
gnage  in  1707  collected  from  old  people,  but  ha 
Ba^  it  was  then  fast  decapng. 

Prince  Louis  Lucien  Bonaparte  erected  in  I860 
a  monument  in  tbecburchyard  at  Paul  to  Dorothy 
Petttreath,  who  died  in  1776,  and  was  auppoaed 
to  have  been  the  last  person  who  conversed  in 
the  langua^.  Frof.  Mu  MiiUer  aaya  there  are 
manj  people  in  Cornwall  who  maintiua  that 
when  penons  came  to  hear  her  talk  she  would 
M>T  anjthing  that  came  into  her  head.  She  was 
belieTed  to  be  102  years  of  affe  at  her  death ;  but 
Mr.  HiiUwell  has  examined  the  register,  and  from 
the  date  of  her  baptism  concludes  she  was  not 
more  than  nity-four  at  the  time  of  her  death. 
It  is  probable  that  no  one  now  UTing  has  ever 
heard  Cornish  spoken  for  the  sake  of  coaversa- 
tion.    Scawen  says: — 

"Comlah  Is  not  to  be  gnttnially  proDOnnMd,  U  the 
Wdsb  for  tbe  most  part  a,  nor  muttenng!/,  ■■  the 
Anuoriek.noT  whininEly,  u  the  Irlih,  bnt  mnit  be  lively 
and  manlj  spoken,  like  otber  primitive  tongues." 

Herr  UiiUer  says  that  three  or  four  small 
volumes  would  contain  all  that  is  left  to  us  of 
CoiDiah  literature.  MSS.  of  a  poem  on  "Uount 
Calvary,"  ascribed  to  the  fifteenth  ceoturr,  exist 
in  the  British  Museum  and  Bodleian,  and  MSS. 
of  mystery  plays  of  the  same  date  in  the  Bodleian 
were  published  by  Mr.  Norris  in  1858.  Accord' 
ing  to  Carew  these  plays  were  performed  in 
Coniish  at  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
ttirj.  To  these  may  be  added  veruona  of  tbe 
Lord's  Prsjer,  Commandments,  Creed,  &c. 

After  these  facts  it  is  not  unreasonable  to  sup- 

Cthat  Cornish  was  spoken  in  some  ^arts  of 
ooshire  alter  the  Norman  Conquest. 

John  Pioaoi,  Juh.,  F.S.A, 


CHESS  rs  EKQLAKD  AND  CHINA. 

(4"-  S.  viL  34.) 

There  is  no  small  uncertainty  as  to  the  exact 


and  chess-rooks  emblazoned  on  their  arms. 
Blount,  in  bis  Fragmada  Aniiquilatit,  states  that 
in  tbe  reign  of  Edward  III.  tbe  manor  of  King- 
ston Eussell,  in  Dorset,  was  held  by  Nichola,  who 
was  wife  of  Nicholas  de  Mosteshore,  on  condl- 

"  to  count  or  tell  out  the  king's  chessmen  id  his  duUB- 
ber,  and  lo  put  Ihem  in  m  b«g  when  the  king  should  have 
fluiabed  bis  gime ;  Ad  nsn-and.  fimiliim  Scsccbii  BBgis, 
et  poaend.  in  ioculo  cam  Kex  ladum  snum  perfecerlt." 

I  am  inclined  to  believe,  however,  that  cheaa 
was  known  in  England  at  a  much  eaiUer  data 
than  either  Hyde  or  Harrington  are  disposed  to 
allow,  and  in  this  view  I  am  supported  by  the 
high  authority  of  Sir  F.  Madden,  who  says : — 

"  Kotliiag,  indeed,  is  more  probable  than  the  introduc- 
tion of  cheH  into  Buglind  by  tbe  Danes,  and  wa  cannot 
refer  it  to  a  more  suitable  penod  than  tha  reign  of  Cunts 
hinudf." 

Professor  I).  Forbes,  after  reviewing  the  evidencs 
pro  and  am,  considers  it  "  extremely  probable  that 
chess  was  introduced  into  England  in  tbe  reign  of 
Athelstane,  between  A.D.  926  and  a.s.  040." 

Chess  appears  to  have  been  well  known  in  this 
country  in  the  time  of  the  Plants^enets.  Out 
earliest  antiquarian  writer,  the  indefatigable  Le- 
laod,  has  an  anecdote  in  his  CoUectemea  about  tha 
chess-play  of  King  John.  He  says : — 
'  "  John  son  of  King  Henry,  and  Fulco  Iblle  at  varlanea 
at  CheMes,  and  John  brake  FdIco'b  bead  with  the  chest- 
boTde;  and  then  Fulco  gave  him  such  a  bbw  that  he 
almost  killld  hym." 

Edward  I,  was  a  chess-player  &om  hia  earliest 
youth,  and  possessed  a  set  of  men  made  of  jaspei 
and  crystal.  From  that  curious  book  the  JWom 
Zettert,  it  would  seem  that  chess  was  a  favourite 
game  in  houses  of  rank  temp.  Richard  II.  On  one 
occasion  Mrs.  Fasten  writes  to  her  husband : — 


Several  of  the  royal  race  of  Stuart  were  ac- 
qaainted  with  chess.  In  the  Renter  House  of 
Edinburgh  there  is  preserved  an  inventory  of  tbe 
personal  efiects  of  the  unhappy  Queen  Mary, 
which  must  have  been  left  in  tlie  castle  when  sho 
was  sent  to  Lochleven.  This  inventory  contuna 
three  sets  of  chessmen,  and  two  works  on  the 
game.  One  set  is  described  as  "  Ane  i^uhite  buist 
with  chas  men  in  personages  of  woid  " — ■'.  t.  a 
white  lioi  with  wooden  chessmen.  One  of  the 
books  is  intituled  The  play  of  the  Chat,  and  was 

doubt  Caxton's  volume,  then  a  comparatively 


Mi^  supposes  it  to  have  been  known  here  about  recent  publication.    That  learned  pedant  James  t 

the  time  of  the   Conquest,   froni    the   Court   of  patronised  chess.     In  a  speech  of  his  animadvert- 

Exchequer   having  been   then   first   established,  mg  on  some  books  written  by  Cowel  and  Black- 

Baines  Harrington  differs  from  this  opinion,  and    wood,  he  says : f 

is  in  favour  of  a  later  date,  but  admits  that  the  „--                ...       i.,ui.j..,.i.,„i?IC 

,.           ,           ■         '■.■■■Eiia^  "The  power  of  kinin  is  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord.    S    ^ 

game  must  have  been  brought  to  England  at  an  They  on  e.Jt  low  thing,  and  ab»»  high  things,  making 

••By  penod   of  our   histoiy,   as   no  fewer  than  the  Bnbjeeta  like  men  m  chess,  a  Pawn  lo  take  a  Bishop 

* "~   '  :  English   families  have   chess-boards  I  a    KniKht." 


128 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


£*»8.VILi'm.ll.71. 


Tlie  nnfortanate  Cliailea  L  Wfts  an  ardent  cbees- 
elftyer,  and  is  mentioned  in  an  old  Eugluh  truis- 
htion  of  Oieco'B  work  on  the  game  in  my 
powesnon  as  havinK  com^antly  used  it  aa  a  lecre- 
stion.  There  are  in  the  Lil»ary  of  the  Britisii 
UuMum  some  diaiiea  kept  by  Gapt^n  R.  _Sj[~ 
monds,  a  royaliat  officer,  m  one  of  which,  it  ifl 
stated—"  Round  about  ye  King'*  chess-board  thii 


•  Subditns  et  priacepa  ialis  ane  awigome  certent' " 
The  date  1043  is  on  the  board,  and  the  line  con- 
tains, no  doubt,  touching  allusion  to  the  state  of 


H.  A.  Kmmkdt. 


,  JO  doubt,  touching  allusion 

the  poor  king's  own],fortuiie8. 

EldoQ  Home,  Besdiag. 


The  date  of  the  introductdon  of  chess  into  China 
seems  to  be  very  uncertsun.  PSre  du  Halde,  in 
his  voluminous  work  on  China,  under  the  heading 
of  "  Extraits  d'une  Compilation  faite  sons  la 
dynastie  Ming,  psr  un  lettrfi  cflSbre  de  cette 
dynastie  nomm^  Tang-King-Tcihaen,"  giTea  the 
following : — 

"  Un  auteur  parlant  da  jen  dea  rfcbees,  qoi  est  le  beau 
jen  de  la.  Chine,  dit  cc  qui  suit :— Quelqnea  geoi  ant  dit 
gae  lejea  des  febcca  veauit  de  I'Empereur  i^ooietqueo* 
Prince  TaToit  iHTcal^  pour  inetmire  sau  Gls  daiu  I'ut 
de  gouvemer  ies  peuplai,  et  do  fiiie  la  guare:  mais 
rien  de  moins  vraisemblaljlf      '  .         .    -^ 


B  pratique 


ueUcd) 


K 


cipales,  dout  I'oxercice  lui  iwit  aussi  familier  quo  I'eit  & 
tons  lea  homines  I'usajKi  iIm  pieda  et  dea  mains.  Ce  fUt 
la  vertu  et  noQ  tea  armcs  qu'il  emploja  pour  r^nire  lea 
peuplea  les  plua  liarbarca.    L'art  de  la  guerre,  dent  le  ~ 

una  aujc  autrea.  I'uo  emit  bleu  liloigne  de  donner  a  aon 
fila  da  pareillea  lemons.  Le  jeu  dea  coheca  n'a  aans  doule 
commence  que  depuia  ccs  tevos  malheurani  oil  tout  I'Eui- 
pire  fut  ddaold  par  ie»  guenea.  C'eat  uue  invention  tria- 
peu  digne  du  grand  Yat>." — Detcrijitian  de  la  Chine 
{i  TOla.  4to.  U  HajQ,  173B),  ii.  739. 

The  Emperor  Yao  reigned  in  the  traditional^ 

feriod  about  2300  s.c.  Ilis  name  in  full  n 
'■ang-ti  Yau. 

The  Ming  dynasty,  3iEng-chaii,  lasted  from 
A.D.  1368  to  1044. 

The  following  anecdote  concerning  Mlng-tf, 
Kxth  emperor  of  the  Fe  Sihig  or  ''Northern 
Sung"  dynasty,  has  reference  to  this  subject; — 

"  One  of  bi9  liest  offioerj,  Wang-ldug-jTien,  wished  to 
retiis  fhim  conrt,  nnt  being  able  to  sudure  all  the  cmel- 
tlea  wiiieb  were  daily  committed.  The  emperor  now 
began  to  fear  for  bia  safety,  and  sent  the  cup  with  poison 
to  tbis  object  of  his  suspicion,  wLo  at  that  time  naa 

plavingat  cbe»,  and  

ferenCB."— See  the  Re' .  _ 
(a  vols.  8™,  London,  ]834), 

The  Emperor  MinDi-tf  reiirned  from  a.d.  465 
to  473. 

Respecting  the  modem  game  Sir  John  Davis 
says  :■ 

"The  Chinese  chess  differs  in  board,  men,  and  moves 
from  that  of  India,  and  cannot  in  any  way  be  idantifled 


nitli  it,  except  as  being  a  earns  of  skiU  and  not  </ 
cbamiar—Tlie  CKutfK  (edit.  1844),  iL  3L 

Hbtxf  W.  Heiifbet. 
Markham  House,  Brighton. 


LADY  OEIMSTON'S  GRATE  m  TEWIN 

CHURCHTAED, 

(4*  S.  TiL  76.) 

I  beg  to  subjoin  a  printed  description,  published 

by  Austin  of  Hertftnd,  which  I  know  to  be  cor- 
rect, though  I  difier  from  it  in  one  part,  believing 
that  the  ash  and  sycamore  trees  have  grown  from 
the  seeds,  the  keys  having  ffdleo  from  the  treea  of 
the  adjoining  -warren  (formerly  the  seat  of  General 
Sabine,  governor  of  OibialtKr — the  mansion  taken 
down  in  1807  by  the  then  Earl  Cowper),  and 
grew  from  between  the  joints  of  the  stone  coping 
of  the  tomb ;  being  left  undisturbed,  in  the  course 
of  years  became  the  lofty  trees  they  now  are.  If 
they  bad  spnmg  from  the  vault,  as  suggested, 
made  one  hundred  and  uxty  years,  the  girth  c^ 
the  trees  would  have  been  mudi  larger  than 
those  of  the  present  are.  As  an  illustration  of 
their  probable  origin,  a  few  years  since  I  pulled 
up  a  young  sycamore  that  bad  grown  from  be- 
tween tbo  joints  of  the  stonework  round  my 
father's  grave,  which  lies  under  the  shadow  of  the 
trees  of  the  Grimstona'  tomb.  The  great  singu- 
larity consists  in  the  lower  part  of  the  trees 
having  become  so  amalgamatea  together,  that  it 
is  impossible  to  distinguish  where  the  bark  of  the 
ash  (lighter  than  the  sycamore)  ends,  and  that  of 
the  sycamore  cf 


CHURtllVAKD   OF   TBWIS,   nKRTFOBDSlCinE, 

■  Msplflys  one  of  the  most  extraordinary  and  romantic 
of  those  freaks  in  which  it  is  proverbial  that  Dame  Nature 
delights.  Tbe  masonry  of  the  tomb — once  Grmlv  set, 
and  bound  with  iron  plus  together— Li  now  disjointed  and 
displaced,  not  by  time  or  decay,  but  bj-  the  irreiiresaible 
growth  of  trees  never  planted  by  human  hands.  The 
appearance  which  the  tomb  presents  is  most  singular. 
Within,  and  interlacing  the  iron  railing  surrouudiag  tbe 
tomb,  are  seven  ash  trees,  coBnecled  at  the  root,  and  thm 
lyQimofes,  aiio  amiitcied  at  the  root.  These  trees,  ns  they 
have  daily  grown,  have  heaved  up  the  stonework  of  the 
tomb,  forcing  it  outward  for  some  distance,  and  entwined 

pletely  imbedded  and  hidden  in  the  trunks  of  the  trees. 
The  trees,  at  their  base,  also  pass  Ihrougli  and  clasp  the 
stonework,  aa  though  it  were  a  mass  of  eartli. 

"  It  ia  conjectured — and  on  no  other  suppodtion  can 
these  marvellous  appearsncea  be  accounted  for — that,  at 
a  period  antecedent  to  the  erection  of  the  tomb,  the  seed* 
of  the  now  full-grown  treea  must  bave  been  deposited  in 
the  vault  beneath;  and  there  germinating,  forced  their 
way  towards  the  light,  silently  and  graduollv  displacing 
tbe  masonry  above— and  then  embracing  and  supporting 
tbe  tomb  tbey  bad  disturbed. 

"  Tba  supnstilioua  eredulilj  of  tbe  neighbouring  pea- 
santry of  the  last  generation  was  naturally  excitsd  by 
appearances  so  unaetinl,  and  they  have  banded  down  a 
l^end  to  thair  sons,  in  which  it  is  sought  to  account  ibr 


*»aVlI.  Fw).Il,7L] 


NOTES  AND  QtJBEIES. 


129 


omenoti.  The  story  ia  ■  limi^  ihm  ; — It  ii  uid 
Ij  Anna  wui  an  unMllev«r, — to  confldect  in  the 
d  of  Chriitiaait;  aail  of  the  Bible,  that  aht  vas 
mat  to  uj  that,  '  if  the  Sacred  Book  were  true,  seven 
vh  trees  wonJd  grow  ont  of  her  tomb.'  The  resolt,  btI- 
diMIr — H  in  many  similar  caeei — gore  riM  to  (A*  Itgtitd. 
Whtuur  I*d7  Anne  were  »o  nnbeliaving  »a  is  rapie- 
Mnted,  m  have  no  means  of  poaitiTelj  iBcotaiiiiQ^,  bat 
it  ia  rei7  unlikely ;  and,  in  them  days,  we  reqnure  no 
mch  aolntion  of  appearaitcea,  which,  however  Dnosaal, 
we  mre  coDtent  io  regard  aa  beantlfhl  iUiutrations  of 
natnTallaws. 
"Tbe  firilowing   inicnptioa   ia   atiU  legibb  so  tb« 


■I    UKBTF0KD3HIRE, 


D.  D.  HopJtnre,  F.8.A. 

"Wist  is  really  the  tree,  or  what  are  the  trees, 
which  grow  out  of  or  about  this  gisTsF  A.  P.  S. 
speaks  of  "  one  ash  ";  the  Spiritval  Timet  Bpeaka 
of  "  Beven  elms  ";  and  the  Flora  SertfordiensU,  a 
most  trustwoTthj  worii,  aaya  of  the  Aier  pseudo- 


*•  In  Tewin  churchyard  are  some  gelf-sown  trees,  grow- 
ing in  a  very  remarkable  manner,  around  aod  about  tbe 
tomb  of  Lady  Anne  Urimslon,  and  haring  in  their  growth 
dliplBced  the  mtaonry  of  the  tomb  and  ironwork. 

The  diecrepanciea  in  the  legend  given  in  these 
three  accounts  are  equally  striking.  A.  P.  S. 
makes  Lady  Grimston  s  doubts  refer  to  the  eiist- 
ence  of  a  future  state,  and  representa  her  as  es.- 
premog  "  a  wish  or  prayer  "  that,  if  such  existed, 
"  &  tree  might  grow  out  of  her  heart."  The 
^riritaai  Times  states  that  she  was  an  Atheiat, 
and  that  **  her  last  words  were  to  the  effect  that, 
if  God  esiated,  seven  elm  trees  would  stow  out 
of  her  tombstone."  The  JWa,  quoting  the  Ha^ 
ford  Timet,  saja  that  "  Lady  Anue  was  an  unbe- 
lierer,  and  was  wont  to  say  that,  if  the  Sacred 
Book  were  true,  seven  ash  trees  would  btow  out 
of  het  tomb."  It  may  be  difficult,  though  I  hope 
not  impoenble,  to  trace  this  "marvellous  legend" 
lo  its  source,  siid  to  ascertain  which  of  the  ahove 
vernoDS  (if  any)  is  correct ;  but  there  can  be  no 
difficulty  in  determining  whether  one  or  seven 
trees  grow  there,  and  whether  these  are  sycamores, 
■dies,  or  elms.  Jaiies  Bbtitbh. 


He  additional  statements  respecting  the  tomb 
of  Lady  Anne  Grimston  are  very  curious.  Perhapa 
for  the  Mke  of  clearing  awny  ueedlesa  comments, 
it  mBy  be  vrell  to  state  that,  in  speaking  of  a  single 
Mb  tiee,  I  meant  only  to  express  what  appeared 


to  be  tha  fact,  tiz.  that  the  seven  or  nine  stems 
(it  is  difficult  to  divide  them  accurately)  seemed 
to  spring  bom  a  single  root  under  the  gravestone. 
If  two  af  these  sterna  are  not  ash,  but  sycamore, 
then  there  must,  of  course,  be  two  trees. 

I  told  the  story  of  Lady  Anne's  belief  or  mis- 
faeUef  as  it  was  told  to  me,  and  do  not  profess 

Sor  indeed  ia  it  neeenary)  to  recondle  it  with 
e  other  part  of  the  story. 
I  may  add,  that  I  have  since  been  informed  by 
persons  who  know  the  naghbourhood  well,  that, 
M  for  &om  having  been  an  infidel,  she  was  a 
devout  charitable  lady,  given  to  good  works. 
I^bably  tliia  can  be  easily  substantiated. 

A.  P.  S. 
[We  have  reaaon  to  know  that,  besides  her  l^aciea  to 
a  church  school,  abundant  evideoce  exiBts  of  both  the 
Cbriatiwi  life  Bad  Chrinjan  t*Hh  of  Lad;  Anne  Grim- 
Bton.  The  tradition  ia  do  donbt  one  of  a  very  common 
class  of  legends — namely,  those  invented  to  account  for 
nnuaual  phenomena. — £n.  "  N.  &  Q."} 


THE   SPELLING   OF  TYNDALE'S  NEW  TESTA- 
MENT, SECOND  EDITION. 
(4*  S.  viL  30.) 


employeJby  Churchyard  in,  I  believe,  several  of 
bia  works,  but  certainly  in  bis  C^i/j^  published  in 
1575,  Churchyard  writes  gaein,  fraem,  maed, 
blaete,  gaet,  viaek,  loaer,  htur,  aaem,  by  simple 
transpoMtion  of  the  finsl  e,  for  game,  frame,  made, 
blaxe,  &C.,  and  also  kaek  for  cake,  and  gaeg  and 
raeg  for  gage  and  rage.  The  main  diHereuce  be- 
tween the  spelling  in  these  instances  and  in  those 
&om  Tyndale  is,  that  the  latter  both  interpolate 
e  and  preserve  it  as  a  final,  e.  g.  yaeve,  graeee, 
maede,  JoeiU,  taeke,  &c. ;  wliile  we  sli^o  tind  in  Mr. 
Fet's  list  hoei  and  taeit,  l!ut  Churehyard  as 
well  as  Tyndale  modifies  o  into  oe,  anti  so  we 
have  roet,cloes,  boeia,  ttoen,  noet,  emoek,  for  rote, 
clolhei,  bones,  *(0Be,  note,  smoke,  and  also  hef,  coeit, 
Hoed,  poer,  for  loaf,  coast,  blood,  poor. 

How  far  these  peculiarities  represent  anything 
more  than  Churchyard'a  own  fandes,  it  may  he 
difficult  positively  to  say ;  but  that  there  was  some 
method  in  the  madness  —  if  madneas  it  were — 
there  can  be  but  little  doubt  He  certainly  meant 
his  spelling  to  be  phonetic,  and  by  writingalongi 
as  ae,  eeemsto  have  pretested  against  the  assump- 
tion that  the  long  English  a  of  the  ^xteenth  ceo- 
tury  was  to  be  gener^y  identified  with  the  Con- 
tinental a  of  the  same  end  of  the  present  time. 

Mr.  Ellis,  in  his  very  valuable  treatiae  on  Earfy 
English  Pronunciation,  after  a  minute  discussion  of 
the  authorities,  comes  to  the  condnHon  that  the 
long  a  of  the  sixteenth  century  was  thea  in  father..  [ ,, 
This  conclusion  ia  evidently  incompatible  with-,'^ 
Churchyard's  practice.  He  no  doubt  meant  to 
^Te  to  the  00  in  gaen,  &a.,  the  sound  which  had 


130 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


belonged  to  ae,  whether  Latin  or  Early  Engliah, 

from  tune  immemorial  down  to  the  niteenth 
centUTf,  viz.  that  of  u'  in  aim :  a  sound  which,  on 
the  other  hand,  cannot  well  be  separated,  in  earlj 
Eogliflh  usage,  from  that  of  eo  in  great,  which  la 
doiibtlesa  traditionaL  Whether  Churchjard,  in 
thus  pronouncing  the  words  in  quasUon,  is  to  be 
consiaered  as  a  conservator  or  an  innovator,  b  of 
course  a  veiy  interesting  question,  which,  how- 
ever, it  would  take  some  time  to  discuss  fully, 
especiallj  as  it  opens  out  into  others  of  great  diffi- 
culty. These  spellings  from IVndale  ofnftyyears 
before  appear  to  be  inteipretabfe  on  the  same  prin- 
ciple ;  but  then  the  admission  of  the  prinianle 
invoWes  this  problem  amongst  other^  When  did 
the  French  a,  as  in  grace — which  in  all  ^babilitr 
was  pronounced  in  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth 


change  into  at,  so  as  to  justify  TyndsJe's  prom 
cintion  =  graice  f    The  attempt  to  resolve    this 
problem  would  necessarilv  lead  to  some  inresti- 

fUions  of  a  very  jgeneral  tendency  manifest  in 
rench,  and  especially  in  dialectic  French ;  to 
change  the  a  into  the  at  sound,  as  when  amare 
becomes  aimer,  Acer  aigre,  &c. ;  and  in  patois,  has 
appears  bail,  egiix6  as  egairi,  bague  as  iaigue, 
courage  as  couraige,  &c.  Such  inquiries,  how- 
ever, we  cannot  now  pursue.  It  is  to  be  regretted 
that  Mt.  Ellis  did  not  handle  Churchyard's 
phooetic  spelling.  J.  Pajub, 

Kildue  Gaidens. 


"Times  Whistle,"  etc  (4"' 8.  vii.  97.)— In 

reply  to  Mk.  Cowpek's  first  query  let  me  offer  the 
following :  — 

"  A  QiiTifr  to  a  King ;  or  Doctonr  Cnrrier  (ChaplajTie 
to  P.  James  of  happy  Memory),  hla  Moliuw  for  re- 
nouDciitg  the  Protestaiit  ReligioD  and  persnading  to  Re- 
vnion  with  the  Cith.-Homan.  Directed  to  hi«  Sacred 
Maiestie.  ■  Mj  hut  is  EddyCing  a  good  matter  :  1  tell 
mv  deeds  vnlo  the,  KiDg.'  Pa.  itXiy."—Fermut»  Siok- 
riontm,  1G33. 

My  little  book  is  a  reprint  of  the  original  "  Mis- 
uue  "  dated  from  Liege,  1613,  and  embodied  in 

"  An  ansvera  to  a  Treatise  vrittcn  hj  Dr.  Cirler,  by 
WSJ  uf  Letter  to  his  Haiestie,  wherein  he  lafelh  doirn 
Sundry  Polltike  Considerations  Pretending  himselfe  and 
Endpsvouring  to  move  others  to  be  reconciled  to  the 
Church  of  Rome,  bv  G.  HafcewU,  Chaplain  to  Prince 
James."     Lond.:  BUI,  1616,  4lo. 

Dr.  Carrier  in  this  book  relates  how  strictly  he 

was  brought  up  in  the  reformed  reli^on ;  how  he 
came  to  have  his  misgivings  as  to  its  being  the 
true  church,  and  finally,  notwithstanding  the 
prospect  of  "  higher  ecclesiastical  dignities,"  he 
took  the  advantage  of  going  over  to  Rome  while 
abroad  upon  sick -certificate.  His  admission  that 
"t)ie  more  I  laboured  to  reconcile  the  religion  of 
Eoglaod'  to  Scripture  and  the  Fathers,  the  more 
I  waa  disliked,  suspected,  and  condemned  as  a 


much  promotion,  but  which  clearly  identifiea  him 
as  the  Whiale'a  covert  papist.  Dr.  C.  labours  (« 
excuse  himself  to  King  James,  and  perhaps  know- 
ing that  his  sacred  majesty  and  some  atwut  him 
were  inrlining  that  way,  tries  to  wheedle  the 
British  Solomon  into  following  his  example,  and 
so  to  put  down  ichiame  and  all  its  attendant  evils. 
Carrier  is  of  opinion  that  there  is  very  little  dif- 
ference between  the  Mass  Book  and  the  Anglican 
IJturgy,  and  thinks  the  matter  might  he  easily 
adjusted  if  the  Puritans  and  Calvinistswere  tooed 
overboard.  At  page  136  of  edit  163S  he  goes  so 
far  as  to  intimato  that  he  is  authorised  by  some 
of  the  greatest  to  say  that  if  James  would  acknow- 
ledge the  Pope,  that  the  latter  would  meet  him 
liberally  bv  conforming  the  interest  of  incumbents 
in  their  cbuxcb  livings,  and  fturther  permit  tha 
free  use  of  the  Common  Prayer  in  England  with 
very  little  or  no  alteration.  Here  again  the 
WhitUe  evidently  alludes  to  our  Carrier  j  for  the 
accomplishment  of  such  ends  as  he  had  in  view 
would  doubtless  have  entitled  the  pervert  to  a  red 
hat  and  stockings.  A.  G, 


Hair  qbowiso  lttsb.  DBiTK  (l"*  S,  vi.  624; 
vii.  G6,  83.) — This  phenomenon  may  aafely  be 
placed  in  the  same  limbo  with  the  living  toada 
found  in  the  middle  of  marble  blocks,  the  sbowera 
of  live  frogs,  the  sea-serpent,  old  Jenkins,  and 
the  Wandering  Jew.  New  animal  tissues  can 
only  be  formed  out  of  the  blood,  and  ao  soon  as 
this  blood  ceases  to  live  and  drculat&  all  inter- 
change of  material  throughout  the  body  must 
ceaee  too.  Hair  can  form  no  exception  to  this 
rule,  aod  its  growth  after  death  is  as  impoauble 
as  the  growth  of  new  bone  or  new  flash. 

It  is  astonishing  bow  people  fond  of  marveb 
are  willing  to  dispense  with  evidence.  Li  tha 
case  mentioned  by  the  old  gentleman  at  Turvey, 
not  a  shadow  of  proof  is  offered  of  the  mass  of 
hair  found  in  the  lady's  coffin  having  grown  after 
death.  Why  assume  thisP  Why  should  she  not 
have  had  long  hwr  during  life  P 

Hawthorne  s  story  of  a  woman's  whole  body 
being  changed  into  hair  is  too  absurd  to  be  re- 
peated. 

Mb.  Mayeb  will  observe  that  in  the  case  oC 
Charles  I.  no  growth  of  hair  is  reported ;  but  then 
this  body  was  examined  by  a  man  who  understood 
the  common  laws  of  physiology.  In  the  case  of 
the  young  man  drowned  at  Whitby  we  are  ex- 
pected to  believe  that  the  htur  of  a  corpse  grew  in 
two  or  three  days  as  much  as  itwould  have  grown 
in  as  many  months  during  life.  Probably  the 
mbtake  arose  from  the  fact  of  the  young  man's 
hair  being  more  or  less  curly,  and  by  immersion 
in  the  water  it  became  straightened  out,  and  thus 
appeared  to  have  gained  in  length,  The  iade~ 
tlriictibility  o(  hair  Mr.  Mates  must  see  to  be 


4*  3.  VII.  Fib.  11, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


131 


quite  BDotlier  qnestioi),  utterly  UDComiected  witli 
poit-mortem  growth,  J.  Daav. 

Aleimder  Rowland,  of  "Maessew"  celebrity, 
eivea  aevenil  uutances  nf  the  iDdeatmctibilitj  of 
bur,  ud  the  grrowtlt  of  it  and  the  naiU  after 
death,  in  his  curious  treatiBe, 

"The  Human  Hair,  Popularly  and  Physiologically 
CoDsiderad,  Ac"  With  aevenllluAiations,  8vi>,  Loudan, 
1868," 

The  labject  is  alao  elahondely  discussed  in  — 

"L-C.  F.  Gurnanul,  &c..  Do  Mincnlii  Mortuoram, 
qaibos  pmnisu  diamUiUo  de  Cadavan  «t  Hitaculia  in 
cenere,"  4to,  Dresden,  1703." 

WiLLiuc  Bazk. 


EiSTBtts  Stobt  C4<*  S.  Tii.  12.)— The  stoiy 
will  be  found  in  Madfime  de  Oenlis'  Taletofthe 
Cariie,  or  in  her  Takt  of  the  Oenit,  I  foiwt 
which.  These  tales  are  among  the  few  that 
clianued  oi      ' "  " 

Wae  MBI.ALS  (4""  8.  Tii.  13.)  — When  the 
Feninaular  medals  were  issued  in  1818  six  sur- 
TiTOrt  of  the  war  were  able  to  make  good  theii 
claims  to  fifteen  bars  or  clasps.  One  of  these 
medab  is  m  a  well-known  priTate  collection.  The 
gold  cross  worn  hy  the  late  Duke  of  Wellingtou 
Bad  nine  clasps.  J.  W.  F. 

Brighton. 

The  late  Captain  Baldwin,  who  resided  for 
tnany  years  in  Caaadl,  receiyed  the  war  medal 
with  fourteen  clasps  for  his  services  in  Spwn  and 
fYance  during  the  Duke's  campwgns.  This  num- 
ber of  clasps  was  always  said  to  have  been  the 
largest  amount  ever  obtained  by  valour.  Comey 
Woods,  the  keeper  of  the  Raguat  Court  at  Hali- 
fax, N.  S.,  receiyed  the  Peninsular  medal  with 
thirteen  clasps.  Woods  obtained  two  medals  for 
distiagoislied  service  in  the  field.  Comay  always 
complained  that  the  Horse  Quards  had  omitted 
to  give  him  the  fourteenth  clasp.  Woods'  regi- 
ment waa  the  gallant  62nd,  the  Oxfordshire  Light 
In&ntry,  which  was  many  years  quartered  in 
Nora  ^tia  with  the  Rifle  Brigade  j  and  Qenerals 
l^braham,  Norcott,  StreatGeld,  Sit  R.  King, 
and  many  others  may  still  remember  the  jolly, 
fighting,  private  Comey  Woods,  bound  to  com- 
memorate every  anniyersary  of  his  general  actions. 
Isaac  Sheabes. 

Highbury. 

Ait  ctbditbd  Elesy  bt  Olivbr  GfoLDSXiTB 


erf  mine  on  a  certain  occasion.  I  was  calling  the 
attention  of  an  author  of  well-deserved  eminence 
to  one  of  his  early  productions,  which  he  had  not 
seen  for  a  considerable  lapse  of  time.  "Good 
God ! "  he  exclflimed,  starting  back  in  horror,  "  is 
it  pouible  that  I  could  ever  have  perpetrated 


each  detestable  trash  as  that  t"  On  which  a  cri- 
tical friend,  who  happened  to  be  by,  observed  to 
him  with  admirable  gravity,  "  My  dear  sir,  it  is 
not  to  tell  how  badly  a  man  may  write,  if  be  will 
only  thoroughly  give  himself  up  to  it"  That  the 
author  of  the  elegy  referred  to  "  had  thoroughly 
pyen  himself  up  to  it,"  there  can  be  no  question, 
and  as  little,  that  if  written  by  an  Oliver  Qold- 
smith — and  it  is  known  that  there  were  more  than 
one — he  could  not  be  that  one  whose  poetry 
afiords  ua  from  youth  upwards  such  exquisite 
pleasure. 

To  criticise  snch  a  production  would  be  simply 
absurd.  Let  it  only  be  remembered  that  in  1770 
Goldsmith  was  in  the  full  perfection  of  his  powers, 
and  that  though  sometimes  a  careless  .writer  of 
prose,  be  was,  in  componng  poetry,  ever  mindful 
of  his  fame.  Eia  poedcel  modut  operandi  was 
indeed  slow  and  elaborate,  and  it  was  in  reference 
to  bis  complaint  of  the  superior  rapidity  with 
which  Churchhill  and  some  other  of  nis  contem- 
poraries threw  off  their  more  numerous  composi- 
tions in  yers&  that  Dr.  Johnson  is  reported  to 
have  said  to  him — and  I  give  the  remark  the 
rather  because  it  is  not  to  be  found  in  Boswell — 
"  Sir,  you  must  always  remember  that  between 
things  absolutely  different  in  degree  there  can  be 
no  approximation  by  numbers,  and  that  even  in 
lyhat  can  be  reduced  to  numerical  equality  it 
kokes  1003  farthings  to  make  one  guinea. 

Jas.  Crosslet. 

AsHBtmsEHS  OF  FuRSESS  (4"  8.  vi.  411,  682.) 

The  following  paragraph  ajipeared  in  the  Uliierdott 

Advertuer  {Jfia.   5,  I87I)  m  reference  to  a  que^ 

propounded  by  Mr.  T.  Hblsby: — 

"  With  regard  to  the  parattraph  fram  A'ntei  and  Qaeria 
as  to  the '  Athbutuers  of  Furneu,' we  arc  iaformed  in 
lererence  to  query  6,  that  the  Rev.  William  Asbbarner 
was  a  son  of  George  Astibumer,  of  Scfllc^  and  that  be 
was  baptised  at  Aldiugham  Church  on  January  5, 1763; 
his  father,  George  Aabburuer  (md  of  Jobu  Ashbumer,  of 
Aldiogham),  wae  baptised  at  the  same  church  on  JuUB  13, 
J73I.  A  heidttoae,  nowatandioe  in  Aldin^'bam  Church- 
yard, was  erected  by  the  Bev.  W.  A»hbnrner,  and  bears 
the  followiuf-  recOTda:— (leorgo  Aabbarner  (his  brother, 
who  was  a  eiitioner  in  Ulverstou),  died  ApHl  12,  IS'ii 
aged  61  veari.  Isabella  Ashbomer  (his  mother)  died 
February  10, 1780,  aged  48  yeirs.  George  Ashbumer,  of 
Scales  (bis  father),  died  December  2. 1SD3,  a|;cd  72  years. 
William  Ashbumer  (his  nucle),  died  February  20.  IS13, 
aged  73  years.  John  Ashburaer  (hia  brother)  died 
July  17. 1H23,  sgt-d  63  years.  We  have  reason  to  beheve 
that  the  ancestry  can  i>e  further  traced  should  the  above 
not  suffice.  We  are  indebted  to  Mr.  John  Aahbumer,  of 
Scales  (who  is  a  relative  of  the  reverend  gentleman  re- 
ferred to),  for  the  above  iufonnation," 

J.  P.  Morris. 

Liverpool. 

Shropshire  Satwos  (4""  S.  vii.  9.) — I  have 
never  heard  more  than  two  of  the  Shropshire  say- 
ings mentioned  by  Mb.  Undebhiu-     "  All  on     - 
one  side,  like  Bridgnorth  election,"  is  a  common 
illustration  to  the  present  day;  and   all  public 


132 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES, 


[4«*S.VII.Fk«.11,'71. 


dinners  in  tiie  coimtj  wind  np  with  tbe  tout, 
« To  all  friends  round  tbe  mekin."  Thara  is 
enotber  Shropehire  toast,  too,  which  I  hare  heud : 
"The  Hills  of  Shropsliiro— may  they  be  as  over- 
lasting  as  the  Shropshire  hills."  And  one  day, 
witneeeing  a  ploug:hing  match  at  EUennere,  I 
heard  one  ruatjc  urging  another  to  go  a  little 
fiuter  with  his  plough.  "  Houd  thee  uize,"  was 
tlie  reply ;  "  the  ground's  as  rough  as  Sabliy's 
'ood  gorst"  Babin'a  Wood  is  a  well-known 
locali^  in  nortb-eaat  Shropshire,  hut  I  uoTer 
heard  that  the  gone  there  was  rougher  than  in 
other  places.  A.  R. 

Onreatry. 

"  Ha  smiles  like  a  bundle  of  chips  "  was  a  rery 
common  saying  in  south-east  Cornwall  from  thir^ 
to  for^  yeara  ago.  The  words  "under  a  dog^ 
aim  "  were  not  unfrequently  added  to  it. 

Wm.  Pzkoellt. 

Torquay. 

Cobblers'  Lahfs  is  Itait  (4'*  S.  yii.  11.) — 
SimUar  glass  globes,  filled  with  water,  are  used 
by  woo£«ngmvers  and  micioscopists,  and  their 
effect  is  to  concentrate  the  light  upon  tbe  object 
looked  at.  J.  T.T. 

N.  Kebey,  Brigg. 

The  women  in  Northamptonshire  and  BucMng- 
hamshire  formerly  used,  and  probably  still  use, 
the  glass  globe  of  water  with  a  candle  in  making, 
pillow-lace,  the  object  of  which  is  to  increase  the 
light  on  their  work,  as  the  light  of  the  candle, 
peaung  through  the  globe  of  water,  mi^:nifies  the 
ught  in  the  same  way  as  pasang  through  a  mag- 
nifTing  lens.  Uei^ky  T.  Waie. 

CockermoDlli. 

Thb  BnoxBus  and  Scakcs  (4'"  S.  vi.  6Si.}— 
May  I  quote  Martial  in  connection  with  the  notice 
fa)  Eboracuu  P  In  epigram  Kiii.  80,  he  saya- 
nrii  lata  genit  patella  Rbombam : 
""u  UUor  eat  tamea  pstella." 


It  appears  to  me  that  this  diatichon  points 
cleBrly  to  the  turbot  The  scarus  is  not  so  eo^lv 
identified ;  it  is  generally  translated  char,  whiui 
delidous  lit^e  fisn  (a  celestial  trout)  the  Ramans 

S'obabb' put  into  Windermere  and  Coniston  Lake. 
harofWbdermere  I  have  been  fortunate  enough 
to  eat  at  Wordsworth's  breakfast  table :  FerffUium 
tantunt  vidi.  But  the  char  does  not  answer  at  all 
to  Martial's  8carua(3i)L  84)  : 

"  Hlc  Kama,  cqnoreis  qui  Tenit  obesos  ab  nndla, 

TiBoeribus  bomu  eat,  ccten  vile  mpiL" 
Pliny  (whom  I  have  not  at  hand)  also  some- 
where mentions  the  scarus  as  famed  for  its  liver. 
Hence  it  cannot  be  the  char,  whose  liverbnothing 
remarkable,  while  all  its  flesh  is  delidous.  Could 
it  be  the  red  mullet,  the  "woodcock  of  ocean  "  f 

MAZKOCEBnt. 

WuLrauBA  (4"'  S.  »ii.  IS.)— Bugdale  (vol  vi. 
p.  144)  gjves  tjte  data  of  the  foundation  of  her 


lastery  996.     Ethelred's  riater  at  that  tima 
might  have  been  thirty-two  yean  old. 

Fboomb-Szlwoob. 


"  til  moriem  Tiveret,  visit  nt  moritnrna," 
to  be  found  in  the  Testamenlum  sine  praparalio 
ad  Mortem  of  Cardinal  Bona* — a  document  which 
contains  many  noble  sentimenta  eloquently  ex- 
pressed. The  words  "  et  cupio  antd  mortem  ma- 
tnre  mori,  ne  moriar  in  etentnm  "  conclude '% 
striking  paragraph  on  the  fear  of  deatL 

JoEM  Eiioi  HosoKHT. 
West  Derby. 

A  Bill  actuallt  fbesentes  (4*^  5.  vii.  33.) 

I  was  surprised  to  see  this  new  verwon  of  an  old. 

joke;  for  certainly  I  have  long  known  a  similar 

"  carpenter's  bill,    but  never  believed  that  it  was 

actually  presented.     The  form  in  which  it  has 

long  been  familiar  to  me  is  the  following : — 

2  nuhogtmy  boxes     -  .       .        .    0  14    0 

1  wooden         do  .       .       .070 

I  wood  lio  .070 


I  have  also  a  chimney-sweep's  hill  and  a  brick- 
layer's bill,  still  more  orinnal  and  puzzling;  but 
I  cannot  affirm  that  dtiier  have  neen  actually 
presented.  F.  C.  H. 

Leioh  Hcirr's  "Leistibk  Houbs  nr  Tows" 
(4'"  S.  vii.  26.) — I  have  as  full  an  acquaintance 
with  the  writings  of  Leigh  Hunt  as  most  people, 
but  I  never  met  with  a  volume  bearing  the  above 
title.  Probably  the  volumes  on  2a«  Old  Court 
Sabtai  are  Ihoae  wanted  by  the  Cambridge  Uni- 
veraty  Union  Society.  G,  J.  Db  WmiB. 

Thb  Ftvb  "  Thikd-Poimted  "  Spibbs  (4*''  8. 
vii.  35.) — The  spires  inquired  after  are  no  doubt 
the  five  ennmetateiin A  I£andbook of  Eccleiiology, 
published  in  1847  by  the  Eccleaiolo^cal  Society 
as  the  only  broach  spires  of  "  third-pointed  "  date. 
They  are  S.  Peter  Stanion,  Northamptonshire; 
S.  Alkmund,  Shrewsbury;  S.  Mary,  Hartfield, 
Sussex ;  AH  Sunts,  Kingston ;  Seymour,  Somer- 
set; S.  Maiy,  Brampton,  Northamptonshire.  To 
these  I  can  add  a  uxth,  viz.  Upton,  Huntingdon- 
shire. This  is  a  very  curious  eiample,  and  until 
eianiined  dosely  seems  to  be  of  much  earlier  date. 
When  I  saw  it  about  a  year  ago  it  was  in  a  very 
dangerous  state,  the  tower  below  it  having  given 
way;  but  I  behave  it  has  since  been  made  aE&. 

SXAIZ. 

Macduit,  THAira  of  Fife  (4*  8.  vi.  276,  869, 
4470 — Mary  de  Monthermer,  wife  of  the  eleventh 
Earl  of  Fih,  was  bom  at  Marlborough  Castle  in 
1297,  and  married  in  1307.    Joan  de  Clare  was 


■  Optra  Antvtrpi*,  1677,  fol.  p.  980. 


4*3.VII.  F«fl.ll,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


boni  about  1265-70,  and  manied  before  1390.  She 
«as  therefore  in  all  probability  the  wife  of  the 
tenth  earL  Was  ehe  uie  mother  of  hia  aucceasor, 
at  bad  be  more  wires  than  one  t^  The  two  dis- 
inherited daug-hters  of  Gilbert,  Earl  of  Glouceater, 
and  Alice  de  La  Maiche  (of  whom  Joan  was  the 
Toooger)  have  never  ^ et,  bo  &r  bb  I  know,  been 
Tecogoiaed  in  anj  printed  work.  Their  hatf-eis- 
tm,  thedanghtera  of  Jnanof  Acrea,  completely 
eclipsed  them.  It  would  be  interesting  to  ascer- 
tain whether  they  both  left  iaBDO. 

HESUBHTEirDB, 

BabiB8'  Bells  (4"'  S.  yi.  475;  vii,  21.}  — At 
the  latter  of  the  above  references  a  correspondent 
asks  for  the  author  of  theae  lines : — 

"  What  ails  my  babe,  my  svrat-bced  bibe,  U>  cry  ?  ■ 
Look,  look,  irhat's  here  1   A  diinty  goldea  thing : 
Se«  bow  the  daodng  bells  turn  round,  and  ring 
To  please  my  bantling  ! " 

Ther  were  written  by  Francis  Quailes  (bom 
1502,  died  1644),  and  occur  in  his  fmAfnn*,  book  ii. . 
No.  6,  "  Venus  and  Dirine  Cupidt" 

Qnailea  deserves  to  be  more  generally  read. 
Hifl  quwnt  style,  wit,  and  uncommon  turns  of 
thought  would  make  him  a  favourite,  even  with 
tbooe  who  may  not  be  touched  with  his  deep  and 
practical  pie^.    Although  a  puritan  in  his  reli- 

K'  m,  he  was  »  zealous  royalist  in  politics,  and 
ring  joined  the  Iring'a  party  at  Oxford,  the 
whole  ctf  his  property,  including  hia  books  and 
HSS.,  were  sequestrated  by  the  parliament.  The 
loss  of  these  last  prevcd  so  much  upon  his  spirits 
as  fo  hasten  hia  deatS.  He  was  educated  at  Chi' 
College,  Cambridge,  and  amongst  other  po 
which  bo  successively  filled  was  that  of  "  Ch- 
nologer  to  the  City  of  London."  What 
duties  of  this  ameer,  and  ia  any  such 
pmntedP 

[QnarleH  was  appoinUd  Cfaronologer.  at  the  request  of 
lite  Earl  of  Dorset,  in  1639.  The  duties  of  the  office, 
which  bad  previouslv  been  held  by  Ben  Joaeon,  consisted 
dilefly  in  providing  pageants  for  the  lord  mayor,  and  the 
ntDiiil  aalarr  irasSSf.  6i.  Bd, — equal  to  about  a  hondred 


IT 


e  the  advice  so  ofl*n  give 


(4  the  usual  shape,  with'  gold  or  gilt  mounting 
and  bells. 

So  that  J.  C.  J.'s  date  ie  carried  back  146  years. 
HEinir  H.  Gibbs. 

Wsoire  Dates  nr  cebtuit  BioanAPHiEa  (4" 
S.  ri.  410;  vii.  46,  SO.) —It  b  perhaps  scarce 
wortli  while  to  refer  to  this  matter  again ;  but  as 
we  have  ^ready  shown  that  Pr.  Rooebs  had  no 
pounds  for  affirminpr  the  eziatence  of  an  error  in 
Mr  edition  of  the  Ettrick  Shepherd's  works,  so 

»j^aink  a  few  words  will  sfiow  that  he  had  ,  „dintricate.that  every  one  ,hen  he  heard  the  na 
^wise  no  eicuse.  He  speaks  m  if  the  part  he  |  g^  „f  ^  ,f  xticydides  or  Mybiu^  or  a 
ind  his  hands  on  con  tamed  the  Shepherd  a  aulti-  aftba  dayaofCato  orTacltuB,  might  be  able  to 
laoginphy  and  nothing  else  of  a  bio^pbical  cha-  '  clear  and  adeqi  "     " 


psffes  of  the  autobiography,  and  immediately  pra- 
ce£ng  them  the  last  forty  pagas  of  the  memoir 
by  ill.  ThomaoD.  So  that  Bb.  Bosess  could  not 
have  been  i^orant  of  the  existence  of  Mr.  Thom- 
son's memoir — and  indeed  admits  that  he  vras  not 
BO — but  "concluded"  that  the  same  statement 
alone  would  "  likely  "  be  contained  in  it  as  in 
tbe  autobiography.  If  such  grounds  as  theae  are 
to  be  considered  as  sufficient  justificati(m  for 
writing  to  "  N.  &  Q."  we  deeply  aympathise  with 
the  editor.  Blacstb  &  Soir. 

Glaegov. 

"  Thib  bak  Night,  teis  bait  Nioht  "  (4*  8. 
ri.  603.)— The  Lyke  Wake  dii^  which  appeared 
in  these  columns  is  printed  in  Sir  W.  Scott'd 
Moutreiiff  of  iha  Scottuh  Border.  In  the  prefac» 
to  it  the  following  beautiful  passage  is  quoted  au 
of  the  Russian  Burial  Service : — 

"  Hut  fbon  pitied  the  afflicted,  0  man  }  In  death 
■halt  thou  be  pitied.  Heat  thou  consoled  the  orphan  ! 
liiB  orphan  will  deliver  thea.  Hast  thou  clothed  Iha 
naked  P  The  naked  will  procure  thee  proUction."  — 
Richaideon'a  Antodoif  of  Jbuiio. 

Sir  Walter  Scott  goea  on  to  aay,  "  The  most 
minute  description  of  the  Brig'  o'  Dread  occurs  in 
the  legend  of  Sir  Owain,"  &Q.  B.  C.  G. 

The  Advbkt  Htmk  (4'"  S.  vi.  112 ;  vii.  41.)— 
What  combination  of  sounds  goes  to  make  vul- 
garity P  I  understand  the  adjective  "  vulgar  "  as 
applied  to  a  man,  a  speech,  an  anecdote,  &c.,  but 
aa  applied  to  a  tune  I  do  not,  and  I  never  could 
do.  Any  tur  may  of  course  have  vulgar  associa- 
tions vritn  it  in  the  miuda  of  particular  persons, 
but  how  can  that  make  the  tune  vulgarP  laekthis 
question  the  rather,  because  the  particular  tune  in 
question,  poor  "  Helmsley,"  which  just  now  ap- 
pears to  have  no  friends,  has  alwavs  seemed  to 
my  nnaophisticated  ears  so  aingularly  appropriate 
to  the  words  of  the  Advent  Hymn,  that  it  vexes 
me  to  hear  it  sung  to  any  other.  Perhaps  yoa 
will  admit  one  voice  in  its  favour,  since  there 
have  been  so  many  against  it.     IlBBiiKHTBnDE. 


fRiiteUnKeaui. 

H0TE8  OS  BOOKa.  ETC. 

The  Hatorji  of  Rome.    Bji  Wilhclm  Ihne.    EngtithEdi- 
Hoa.    (Longmans.) 

Ihne,  from  the  volumes  before  us,  would  appear. 


distance,  tlie  ci 


i]  and  exhitutive  method  of  Niebohr 

,. ^ down  to  the  deductions  and  theories 

that  great  philoloKi»t.  "Would  that  I  could  write  his- 
rj  80  vividly  that  I  could  90  discriminate  what  is.flac- 
■finir  unA  uncertain,  and  so  develop  what  is  conftiaed 

-  -  "^         .    ....•:....,. Bof, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[^fS-VII.  Feb.  11,71. 


jnebnhr,  and  ft  wu  Dndoabt«dlj  adtnirsUcm  at  th« 
Tue  udIod  of  SDch  powers  wichTut  iearniafc  in  him, 
that  imposed  that  "  willing  bondatce  "  to  vhicb  to  many 
■abmitted,  bat  irbich,  u  time  adTineed,  required  that 
that  wJH  connael  ihoold  be  given.  Herr  Ibne  mndeitlj 
Matei  tbat,  had  tbe  life  of  Arnold,  to  whose  memory  he 
paTS  a  ftding  and  graceful  tribute,  been  spared,  and  thus 
the  completion  of  hie  ifulnry  n/ Anw  effecUd.  in  all  pro- 
bability be  would  never  have  undertaken  his  present 
work.  It  teems  to  as,  however,  that  hud  such  been,  for- 
tanatelv  for  all,  the  case,  there  would  have  been  Mill  an 
«qnil  call  fbr  Herr  Ihne's  labour,  our  stock  of  kaowledga 
receiving  daily  snch  vast  acceeaioas — tbe  resnlt  of  re- 
■earch  tbat  appaars  to  grow  more  vigorous  tbe  more  it  is 
pursued  —  as  to  render  necessary  tbe  continued  rewriting 
of  history  under  "  the  light  of  pregent  biatorisal  science." 
Commenciaf;  from  the  rrgal  period,  oar  author  has  car- 
ried on  his  history,  in  the  present  volumes,  to  tbe  end  of 
the  second  Pnnio  war— the  period  embraced  by  Arnold 
— and  proved  himself  no  mean  possessor  of  our  idiom,  for 
hla  volumes  are  not  a  mere  translation  fmrn  the  German, 
but  have  b«en  rewritten  by  him  in  Englieh. 
SpaiiiA  Thtmii  and  Spanah  PictHra.  By  Mrs.  W.  A- 
Tollemacha.     (Hayes.) 

Though  Che  object  of  Mm.  Tollemacbe's  visit  to  Spain 
appears  to  have  been  the  atudv  of  Spanish  Art,  on  which 
we  have  a  good  deal  of  pleaeaiit  gossip  in  the  work  before 
ns,  tbe  book  contains  numerous  fragments  of  English. 
Spanish,  and  legendary  history,  which  giva  variety  and 
additional  interest  to  iL  As  owing  to  the  state  of  the 
Continent  and  tbe  recent  changes  in  Spain,  travellcra  are 
likely  to  direct  their  steps  in  that  direction  during  the 
next  migration  of  wandering  Eogllshmen  and  English- 
women, we  commend  the  book  before  us  to  all  anch.  not 
as  a  substitute  for,  but  as  a  companion  to.  Ford's  ad- 
mirable Handbook. 

Elementary  Trtatitt  on  Nahtral  PhUotopliy.  Bi/  Pro- 
fessor A.  Privst  Descbanel,  of  Paris.  TrantlaUd  and 
edittd,  a^ilh  Exttniire  Additinni,  tjr  Professor  Everett, 
D.C.L,  of  Belfait.  In  Four  Partt.  PaH  I.  Mecianic,, 
Hydtostativi,  and  Pneitntotic*^  Jlliutrattd  by  nitrntroat 
Eagriwingt.     (Biackie.) 

The  important  poaii  ion  which  physical  science  has  now 
taken  in  public  ednration  has  induced  the  pntiMshers  of 
tbe  work  before  us,  which,  soon  after  the  publication  bv 
Professor  Descbanel,  was  adopted  by  the  Minister  of  In- 
struction in  France  as  the  text-book  for  government 
Bchoota,  to  invite  Professor  Everett  to  prodace  an  English 
edition  of  it—and  be  tells  us,  that  he  was  only  hiduced 
to  do  so  after  finding  it  was  better  adapted  to  the  requlre- 
menta  of  Ma  class  than  any  aimllar  treatise  with  wliich 
ha  was  acquainted.  But  ll~  is  not  a  mete  translation ;  it 
has  ncelved  manv  and  very  important  additions  at  tbe 
bands  of  tbe  traoalntor. 

"  I.1VK8   OF  THE  PoF.TS  LAUREATE    OF  Ek(!LAK1)  "   IS 

Ibe  title  oF  a  work  reported  to  be  in  course  of  preparation 
by  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Norton. 

RiicnESTEtt  Castle. — The  corporation  of  Rochester, 
having  secured  from  tbe  Earl  of  Jersey  a  lease  of  Roches- 
ter Castle  and  grounds,  are  about  to  cupend  2,(M)0i. 
or  more  in  laying  ont  the  latter,  thereby  effecting  a  great 
public  improvement.  This  scheme  will  doubtless  com- 
mend itself  to  all  antinuaries,  as  tending  to  preserve  tbe 
noblest  castle  keep  in  England. 

E  Charles  Dicke>s. — Messrs.  Chapman  b 


HaU,  it 


e  Pfop™ 


__.        ..  f  copyrights  of  the  works  of  Mr.  Dit 

A  bust  of  tbe  lat«  novelist  has  juat  been  completed  by 

Mr.  W.  F.  WoodiDgton. 


Loan  Pilkbrstdn's  Vtsm  to  Pabis  in  1814  axd 
181G.— Tha  Diary  kept  by  Lord  Pabnentoo  on  these 
visits  will.  It  la  said,  form  a  separate  publlcatiou,  it  being 
found  tiw  lone  fbr  insertion,  as  originally  inteaded,  £ 
The  Tcmplt  Bar  Sfagoxint. 

ROTAL  Albert  Haix. — We  anderstand  that,  atth« 
ceremony  of  opening  the  Hall  by  the  Queen  ou  the  29th 
of  March,  an  officially  reserved  free  seat  will  ba  offered 
to  the  Uavor,  Provost,  or  Bailiff  of  every  place  in  tha 
United  Kingdom  which  paid  IWH.  and  upwards  to  tha 
-  ibscriptlou  fond  of  tha  Exhibition  of  18&I. 


M£ 


'uted  br  W.  Sarditie.  £I?..I. 


FHISIOOKOHICU.  fo 

TillSOSA 

^  J.  S.  Horn.  ^^1^^^ 

WsalrfbjJf 

.  Jut*  JFUWH 

B,ar«lBt«118™^ 

fiotEcctf  is  aarrcidpotitttnU. 

"How  WE  nno 

UGHT    THB 

Gooi>  Newb  to  Ghent." 

Tho't  i,  ™  hiilo 

r.W  found 

art™  for  ihii  poem.     Ste 

"N.&Q."3"'S, 

136. 

AUBROSR  BOHV 

ICKB.-By 

an  annoviag  and  peniittnt 

f>M/e  ToluHie  (aali, 

our  aalio: 

of  Mr.  Mayor:  MereHing 

p.  lU),  th 

,„bject  of  the  book  i>  ni*. 

caUtd  Borwicte. 

Zeta  (Andover 

win  find. 

bg  referring  to  our 

Sr.— The  avlhm 

of  The  World  of  Matter  diid  two  or 

YLH.S.-The 

"Hora 

ro  nisi  Serenas," 

lundiali; 

hut  it,  origin.  «'hich  hat  been 

S.  W.  T.  mil  find  anoteonlht  word  "  High-faluten  "  at 
p.  478  of  oar  lait  v<A<imt. 

SCOTTIBH  Mdsic— L.  T.  A.  Kill  fitd  the  irininaU  of 
malt  of  Iht  popular  ScoIIuA  atra  traced  in  ChappdCt 
Music  oftbe  Olden  Time. 

T.  C.—  We  have  a  letter  for  thii  genealogieal  qutrat. 
Whithtrthall  --  '- -'-■•■' 


^_*'tt!H'*p^K: 


•>8.VILPkb.i:,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


TDTSLZT  BAOTHEES'  FEW  BOOKS. 


ON   IHTEBNATIONAL   RELA'HONS 

Bcptlntcd  b7  [KnnUaii  from  T%«  niMj.*lth 


A  LIFE'S  ASSIZE:  a  Novel.    By  Mm.  J.  H. 

lUDDEIX.  ioUwtof  "QeorpUitlli,"*!.    JtdIi. 

THE  CANON'S  DAUGHTERS:  the  Stoir  of 

(IdnChHO.    BjROBEKTST.JOUNCURBET.    Inll. 

THE  GOLDEN  BAIT :  &  Novel.    By  H.  Holl, 
BY  BIRTH  »  LADY:  n  Novel.    Sj^  Gboboe 
BLANCHE  SEYMOUR :  a  Novel.    3  voU 
NOTICE.  — REPRINT    OP    MRS.    HENRY 


DR.  OGILVIE'S  ENGLISH  DICTIONARIEa 
The'  Iinp«ilal    Dictionary,    Technolo^oal 


THE   FLAYS  OF  PHILIP   MA8SIH0EK. 


THE    WOBES    OP    CHBISTOPHEK 


BEir    JOKSOH'S     WOBES,    COMPLETE. 


)B.  REED'S  SYSTEMATIC  HISTORY: 
Mmnnl  of  Brilh^  tbd  ToiviBn  Fiil«rTi  for  Collnn,  flchn 
i1  Tunltln.  P>R  I.  CKronDlncML  (kimaixinl.  anif  SUUiUi 
LbLr«— I^rt  TI.  The  Dlocrtphr  ol  UodFrn  Tnlventt  UliLoiy 
LTtlll.  TbcFiieUorDrlLUbllb(ar/tp«lBLlTdeTelQDed' 


A    mSTOBY  of  the  PAROCHIAL  CHAPELRY 


TlwCnntcl,«11 

WhlndmlCh 

Tba  Twniu-«nir  Sum  H«  of  Oeonvih. 
OviaMh  Bonilllil  tDA  Uu  Mint  "■-•"■^ 


1.     A  »w  of  tlU  lUft  M 


LandDQ.  TXiiBXER  k 


yERY  CURIOUS  AND  RARE  BOOKS.— Topo- 


~10IN.1.— A  large  CoIIwlion  of  Scotch  and  Enplish 

J    COISfl  lo  dUpOK  of  ^ft  Gold.  Si]»tT.BJIIepn.  Md  Copper,  Inclidlor 


TV)  ] 


-F.  MAYHEW  will   1 


rpo  P 


PORTRAIT  COLLECTORS. —John  Smhmk 

Kmmiti  In  tikt  pnpoftlpn.  PlHH  Dida  hon 
ii.i  r,  vnisLflKlUR.  STfKHii  PIT  DVD  UiUltIi,  Furtin*].*!, 
Int  Fin  or  ALPnABETICAI.  CATALOOCX.-JOini  BTitll- 
,BaokuAPitiiwila.U.K!Ba'in«.cliiln,Idi«g&B.W.      , 

...a.*..dM.»i.^„™.a«»««.i.fPK.)l^lC 


NOTES  ANB  QUERIES. 


-    RErERESCB   of  On  AKIBTOCRACTo 

Enlflit««,''l«>iiiiahii4oOifUl.»n«lli  h«lfo^.  llj,i 
»iuftUt«ilj«fcli«»»lWhoKd«.lM.  «J.««ch,ortliI  two 


TJTHORS    ADVISED   WITH  as   to  Cost    of 


AUTHORS    AD 
PBDrriKQ  mat 


ImporUBt  Bt\9  at  Coantr  HlltOTla.  u 


Ftiotogiaplu  of  Fenoiu,  Fiotnrei,  ft  Places, 


CHUBB'S    ITBW   PATENT   SAEES. 

STEEL  PLATED,  with  Diagonal  Bolta,  to   resist 
W.diH,I>rilll,waFUl, 

t»nrBB-B     TATMXT     SBTaOTOK    X.OOKS, 

■sd  anl  Ery  a.-Cuh,  Denl.  Pipu,  ud  Wrltini  Bdiu, 
(U  stua  vUb  Ihe  DeUeUr  Locki. 

lEON    DOOHS    FOE    STBOHO    BOOMS. 
lUattnitd  Prize  Zirii  Gratii  and  PoI(-J>M. 

CHUBB  ond  SON, 

HI  X»  Lonl  StrtHt  li*«1looli 


SAUCE.— LEA    AND    PERRINS. 


"thi  oklt  eooD  utrox.'' 

VtnaVALLKD  FOR  PiqUAHCT  i 
Lmk  for  "IiBA  AND  FSBBINB'"  BACOB. 

BEWARE     OF    IMITATIONS, 

■•  >kl  XunH  of  UG  A  AND  P&BSIBS  on  lU  botUv  ud  W»l 
.ftBLAOKWEUnL 


WgiU. 


PASTBIDOE    Airs    COOPEB, 

MANUFACTDRING  STATIONERS, 
1B2,  Fleet  Snnt  (Comer  of  Chimoeij  Luis). 

CASBIAOE  FAID  TO  THE  COI7NTBT  OB  ORDK&t 


FOOWCAP.Hima.ol 


8CHOOI:.  HTATIOIfEai  mctilild  on  tin 


»  BERDEEl 

IWQfhjiii  L£0<j 


"OLD   ENGLISH"   FURNITURE. 


OOIiLIIIBOn  and  LOCK  (late  Herring), 
CABIIV£T  MAKER8, 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  E.a    EeUblished  178!. 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANG/NGS. 


I,  FLEET  STREET,  LONDON.    Eatabliahed  1782. 


■DzsKsroaD's  txijid  acAowsuuA. 


TNDIGESTION.— THE  MEDICAL  PROFESSION 

I'  adDpI  UOaSOirS  PREPAKATION  of  PEP3INE  u  llH  Inw 
RiniBlir.  Bold  In  Botlln  imd  Boitt.  frmn  »i.  8c/,,  W  m[[  Ph«rm»cm- 
IMal  I^siiUU.  ud  the  MuufkOiinn.  TUUMAB  llOIUOK  k  SOIT, 


m- 


■ANILA  CIGARS.— MESSKB.  VENNING  &  CO. 

'tl,  EAST  INDIA  CHAMBERS.  IXIKDON,  faavi  Init  n- 
C«ul»m>Dlort(D.lUAKIl.A  CIOARB.tn  in^nitd^ 
-  " -'  WO  Hch.  Prim  II.  lOi.  ptr  boi.  Onton  to  b* 

.B .  Sunpl*  Box  of  IM, )«.  M. 


LAKFLOirOE'B 
PYBEIIC     SALISE 


HHVoeuIliu'  lubd  noBrtiNe  iiivyuUva  In 
St^MHL  torrmtiiv  tad  nriBB  HOT.  Swl* 


(I.  i.uiFun;aH,ii 


4»fl.TiL»B».18,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


135 


LOMDOX,  OATUXDAT,  FXBRUART  IS,  1«II. 


COHTENTS^H*  164. 
KOna:-Mi»l  Til«riHi,  lW-Hlltoii'a  "BiTan  ui»," 
Is,  US  —  Tbe  Bmr.  Hwrrfrucis  CU7,  li.  —  Witohe*  la 
li^and.  (A.— The  MvuiIbs  of  "Honilair.  HonriHr"— 
BHT-^tinc— ObW*  aod  Sir  Gilbart  TalbM  Id  Kit  — 
Cnriaoa  Fi«eiinora  of  tbe  Freteoikir  —  HM*«a  Lrt"" 
-'Vw-BttOt  tn-ThllF*  -«rtoc7  of  tba  VIrFinta 


QUBBIM! 
"Queen  Ait - -- -j 

WmiiBpen— B.!".  Bontniftan  —  OilTia  and  a 


»  Tlimri      riitnTiiin  MrTimtnrr      "ririiiim  m 
_.  .#  w-_.— n,  jinj^  Dowolps— Corrupt  Eofi- 
irntt:  "TrnEnmrDTDo    —  BrelJIi*!  "  DiuT  "  —  QoiH  tnd 
fluiBt  — Htmror  Hvtnp  — Ahaodcr  J*m(nni.  H.A. 

—  Portrait  of  Jabn  Kar  — ^  Bunuel  Lukg'a  Latter  Book 

—  Paut  of  lbs  N>(1v1(t  —  NuDiiimUic—  "PalBOlogia 
t*roiii<!«"  —  Th«  Piano  —  Print-d««lB™'  Caialoeo™  — 
Bood  BfTasni  In  Buffolk  Churches  —  Beautj  Sleep  -' 
Jemnr  Tvlor  —  '  The  Seven  Wonders  of  Wiles,"  140. 

BBPLIBS:  —  Pedigree  of  B.  B.  Hajdoc  tha  Hlatorieal 

—  ■  -        -  ■.      m„  a .  m  Imporial  Letter.  '" 


FalDter, 


-  HenMii:.  1*9  - 


n.  itT- 


BmeD  ^hil'liag  Piaoea  if  Cliarlei  L  -  Danar 

BenioT  —  The eiran  Bong  ofParwin  Arerr— "The  UaaT- 
fog  of  tbe  taad"  —  Birk™»ton  —Gun  —  The  DldaaHc 
PDetrjDftMlT— -BuiboemcHi  debet,"  Ac.— La  Cara- 
tide  — "It'i  abrCry  loLooh  Awe"  —  Indejes:  "Eu«h- 
voiih'B  HIMoriaal  Colleottont"  —  Kej  to  "  Lo  Grand 
Qmn"— WeaTeT*!  Art— Female  Baint  — "The  Prodigal 
Boo  "  — Cannon —BenJ.  Carrier— ■' Tha  Adoration  of  tha 


MOKT  TAL^BIEN. 
TVlo  hoa  not  besid  of  Uoiit  VaUriea,  tke 
tswering  f^iuit  of  tbe  Seioe,  and  tutelary  geniiu 
of  tbe  proud  city  at  its  foot  P — 

"  Qn&  [ortnods  Sbijuasa'  uxostun  loaaiu 
£grfa  urget  nndu  vallibas,  itat  irdoo 
Arz  niontu  spice:  qnm  loci  Ingenio,  at  maun 
Wnnita,  sspe  ruit  boatilea  mluaa  \ 
Fullqae  belli  longs  prseentii  mora." 

JoaOD.  Conunuil  Carmna.    Farii,  1701,  p.  17 

The  sbBtegwl  iiaportAiiM  of  thia  mKrmed 
catadel  invesla  ite  aite  with  a  present  inteiest, 
«oine  portion  of  -ffitioh  naj  seem  to  b«  reflected 
OQ  a  umMr  Mkd  fin^otten  phue  of  its  history. 

The  modem  Pariaiui  or  ordioaiy  tourict 
kwMTB  Maat  V«Idri«i  bat  as  ft  fbrt  And  a  beovuk ; 
Minaoioaa  wilJi  caanoa  and  populoBs  with 
Mldieiy;  prompt  for  the  defenee,  or  it  Butybe 
for  the  attack,  of  the  fickle  and  tuuuly  miUaos 
hiwMth  itssiiadow. 

Bnt  tbe  stndent  of  religioun  history  sew 
ytiUnea  uadar  aw^er  aspect.  He  thinks  of  it 
as  the  <s«wbile  reteeat  of  tbe  hdy  hermit ;  an 
object  of  pious  julgiinage ;  a  mimic  yet  adoraUe 
Calvuy;  or,  paiabaiice,  in  a  more  degenerate 


'  J  alionld  IW  to  be  '""""^  bj-  the  off^aded  dude  of 
tb«  lAtJD  poet  If  I  failed  to  oontoa  that  it  is  I  alone  irbo 
■M  T^mwiUe  tbr  the  jntrodnction  iota  hla  Brat  iambic 
tr  tbe  la««wlwlUi  da«^l  "Seasm,"  instand  of  tbe 
MtaBch  *■  Imm,"  irUcbu  AtBiid  hi  tba  •ligiaal. 


time,  as  a  scene  of  licentious  profligacv,  whudi 
recalls  the  DionysiA  of  the  elder  world,  or  tb« 
nocturnal  love-feasts  of  modem  BeviTaliam. 

We  learn  from  Pierre  d'Orgemont,  a  former 
bisbop  of  Paris,  that  in  the  year  14(X)  and  tha 
reign  of  Cbarles  de  Valois  there  was  already  a 
bermitage  on  Mont  ValSrien,  and  that  a  penitent 
named  Anthoine  occupied  a  cell  of  narrow  Ikoitl 
constructed  on  the  spot  This  was  destroyed  in 
tie  time  of  the  civil  wars  between  the  Dukes  of 
Orleans  and  Burgundy,  and  the  hermitage  of 
Saint  Saviour  built  on  tbe  summit  of  the  mount. 
This  bad  for  occupant  Sister  GuiUemette  Faussart, 
a  native  of  Paris,  who,  in  the  reign  of  Henry  IL, 
and  assisted  by  the  coatribudons  of  Henry  Guyot 
and  Oilies  Marline,  built  tbe  chapel  of  Samt 
Saviour,  and  a  coll  of  ample  dimensions,  as  an 

It  is  related  of  this  holy  personage,  that,  after 
ber  nightly  prayers,  she  occupied  herself  b  csrv- 
ing  water  from  the  foot  to  the  summit  of  tne 
mount.  This  she  did  in  sucb  quantities  that  it 
sufficed  the  masons,  engaged  in  the  construction 
of  the  chapel,  for  tbe  entire  day,  and  waa  tluu 
regarded  as  a  miracle.  She  pr&ctiaed  the  most 
rigid  austerities ;  ate  little  but  bread  and  water ; 
t^ng,  indeed,  little  else  to  support  life  but  the 
Ho^  Communion.  (Vari^Ut  hitti>nques,pJ^mquet, 
HhtUrairta,  Pais,1752,  tcm-iii.  partie  i.  p.iri) 
After  five  years  of  fasting  and  penitence  Sistet 
Ouillemette  died  suddenly,  in  the  year  1661,  in 
the  odour  of  sanctity,  and  was  buried  at  the 
entrance  of  tbe  chapel  of  tbe  hermitage  wbioh. 
had  been  built  under  her  auroices. 

The  Buccesaor  to  this  holy  lady  was  Jean  Hou^ 
set,  the  third  anchoret  of  Mont  Val^rien.  He 
had  been  a  retainer  of  Henri  Guyot,  to  iriiom, 
and  other  charitable  persona,  be  was  indebted  for 
his  support  He  occupied  the  hermitage  for  the 
long  period  of  forty-mx  years,  at  tbe  end  of  wbicb 
time,  on  August  3,  IGOO,  be  closed  a  life  of 
austerity  and  edification,  and  was  buried  by  tbe 
ade  of  Sister  GuiUemette,  hia  predecessor,  in  pre- 
sence of  the  clergy,  many  noblemen,  and  a  Test 
couconrse  of  spectators. 

It  b  to  this  pious  man  that  Ratiul  Boutraya, 
better  known  under  hia  Latinised  name  of  Ko- 
dolpbna  Botereius,  refers  in  tbe  following  not 
very  elegant  hexameters : — 

"  Iramlaet  Atbaiio  prapi  rertioe  TAiAema  Koas. 
IbcIdbI  apdnnea  aanis  qui  limea  Eremi 
Sex  propi  abhinc  InHrii  non  exit,  ille  vetnatot 
£gypti  Patm,  SviiKqae  harraitbi  adeeqiut. 
QwiUs  erst  nigro  ^ol  pastu  ab  tlite  Paoliu, 
Hjnataqae  Inijm  tanien,  qni  AstaDloa  bans, 
fortunate  eenaz,  ipii  annuna  ji  ro^  jaeentea 
Despicii  nrbis  opea,  et  vers  deapleu,  nrba  iM 
Magna  tibt,  H<his  exljjuaa,  Pravlncia  et  iiigens 
Bcniptaque  in  bortcnti  defoasa  ergaatula  aaxo." 

LmUtia,  Sto,  PariaUa,  18R.    - 

'  The  next  and  fourth  tenant  of  the  hermit^s  cell 
WBsSdraphin  de  U  Nou^,  a  Parisian,  who  waa 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


t**  8.  TIL  Fib.  18,  7t, 


j^ced  in  poBMssioii  by  the  Abb4  of  St  Denis  and 
Henry  de  Oondj,  Caidinal  de  Rett,  August  8, 
1008.  He  wu  Bupported  in  the  soUtarj  practiea 
of  pietf  and  atuteritT  by:  he  celebrated  and 
lovely  Marguerite  de  Valoie,  first  wife  of  Henry  of 
Navarre,  and  last  princes*  of  Her  illustrious  house. 

By  some  one  of  these  hermits  three  lof^  crosses 
lUKLbeen  erected  on  the  sammit  of  their  mount 
These,  from  their  elevated  position,  weie  seen 
from  afar,  and  recalled  to  the  pious  spectator  the 
Calvary  of  old,  where  his  Savioar  had  suilered 
between  the  hardened  and  tbe  repentant  tbiet 
Struck  by  the  similitude,  ■  priest  and  licentiate 
of  the  Sorbonne,  Hubert  Cbarpentier,  oouceivad 
the  idea  of  establishing  on  Mont  Val6rien  a  com- 
munity of  priests  and  religious  men  for  the  main- 
tenance and  exercise  of  the  worship  of  the  Gross, 
umilar  to  one  which  he  had  previously  founded 
on  Mount  Betharam  in  B^arn,  and  a. second  at 
N6tre  Bame  de  Ganuson,  in  the  diocese  of  Auch. 
The  king,  Louis  XIU.,  favoured  the  scheme  with 
luB  approbataoQ  ;  and  Richelien,  who  hsd  a  splen- 
did seat  at  Ruel,  bard  by,  promoted  it  by  his 
liberality.  The  congregation  of  the  Calvary  con- 
aisted  of  thirteen  priests,  of  whom  the  founder, 
Cbarpentier,  was  the  first  superior.  Thisemineut 
man,  who  had  been  the  intimate  friend  of  the 
Abb^  de  Saint  Cynin,  and  the  solitaries  of  Port 
Royal  died  in  1&50,  in  the  very  year  in  which 
Louis  XIV.  confirmed  the  letters- patent  given  by 
his  father,  permitting  the  community  to  build 
the  church  of  the  Holy  Croes,  and  a  convent  for 
the  accommodation  of  the  ministering  nriesta  and 
other  persons  of  piety  who  might  be  aesirous  of 
leading  a  life  of  edification  therein. 

The  nligious  teal  which  bad  animated  Char- 
pentier  does  not  appear  to  have  been  participated 
Ij  the  confratermty,  and  ten  years  later  the 
number  bad  dwindled  to  two,  who  lingered  on 
.till  1663,  when  they  sold  their  commonalty  to  the 
Jacobins  of  the  Rue  Sunt-Honord,  an  example 
which  the  hermits,  tired  also  of  their  life  of  soli- 
tude and  aosterity,  lost  no  time  in  following. 

These  baigaiuB,  however,  found  no  favour  vitb 
the  chapter  of  the  cathedrsl  of  Paris,  who  en- 
daavonred  to  prevent  them  taking  effect  bv  de- 
spatching another  relay  of  priests  to  t^eabanaoned 
mount.  Hence  a  collision  between  the  two  bodies. 
The  Jacobins,  arriving  to  take  possesion  of  their 
acquisition,  found  another  party  in  possession,  and 
laid  regular  siege  to  the  mount  The  good  folba 
of  the  neighbouring  villages  took  one  or  the  other 
mde;  a  baJcer  was  killed i  others  were  wounded; 
the  Jacobins  remaining  masters  of  the  situation. 
The  affair,  however,  had  made  considerable  noise ; 
the  king  ordered  an  investigation,  and  this  resulted 
in  a  decree  by  which  the  disputed  property  was 
iMtored  to  its  original  poswasors.  Sainte-Foix 
givea  Ml  detiuls  in  his  Euau  tur  iVii,  and  a 
poem  of  some  two  thousand  verses  was  composed 
d;  Jean  David,  a  bnchelor  of  theology,  entitled 


Xe  Calvaire  pnrfitrU  par  ttt  Jacobin*   de  la  nte 
8amt-Hon«rt. 

It  was  probably  at  this  period  that  the  mount 
began  to  be  known  as  the  "  Calvary."  In  166^ 
the  eia-i»  of  Paris  were  affiliated  to  the  congrega- 
tion, and  the  custom  was  established  by  the  par- 
oiuei  of  the  capital  of  making  a  yearly  pilgrimage 
to  the  holv  mount  on  two  nights  spedally  cooee- 
crated  to  the  worship  of  the  Cross.  Behind  the 
great  attar  of  their  church  the  priests  of  the  com- 
munity had  constructed  a  mimic  representation  of 
the  sepulchre  of  our  Saviour.  To  fadlitste  access 
to  the  summit,  the  precipitous  sides  of  the  mount 
were  hewn  into  terraces,  with  steps  between,  and 
chapels  at  regular  intervals,  fording  representa- 
tions of  the  various  stations  of  the  Passion,  were 
constructed  tf>  serve  as  resting-places  for  the  pil- 

Availing  themselves  of  these  facilitiei^  during- 
the  whole  of  Pasdon  Week,  Mont  VaMrien  was 
thronged  bv  sn  army  of  devotees,  making  their 
way  from  ijiMpel  to  diapei,  up  its  terraced  sides, 
till  they  reached  the  church  on  the  summit  Rut 
it  was  on  the  nights  of  Ascension  Day  and  Good 
Friday  that  the  pilgrim-crowd  became  most  nume- 
rous. The  graphic  pen  of  Dulsure  shall  hei» 
describe  the  mianigbt  doings  of  these  Oigiasts  o£ 
modem  timet: — 

''  L«s  aoi  portaSoit  one  cndx  fort  pcnnte,  ct  se  tial 
niient  avw  pdne  jDsqn'aa  sommst  da  Is  moDtagne ; 
eeaz-t&  M  fsiuisat  fluUnr  ea  ebemin  ;  d'antna,  eafiia, 
na  ponvaot  Jdmt  de*  rSIes  A  diffidin,  h  eontcntaint 
d'ttrespeclatsonWa^TDlca.  Camnn  eM  sote  da  drivotlon 
•a  Ikisalt  U  nolt,  eomme  eVtalt  k  U  renaisMnce  da 
printemps,  et  comma  toot  digtatm,  les  pUarliu  at  la 
t^ariuea  biniant  aoavaDt  dat  statloni  ^i  le  brii  de 
Boulogne  {par  aii  Us  pmaiantj,  avant  d'm  fUra  inr  la 
moBtsgna  da  Calvain.  La  nlutarie  et  la  [daidr  ron- 
plsttreot  la  lUe  at  la  pJoTtanca,  at  pliuiann  p^hA 
etilent  commli  au  lien  mime  de  I'explaUDn.  Cea  ptle- 
rfaigca  et  lea  dterdraa  qa'lls  entraioaiant,  fDrmteaSa 
ugament  r^fbnn^" 

At  len^b,  to  nut  a  stop  to  the  flagrant  scandal, 
the  Cardinal  de  Nosilles,  the  then  Archbishop  of 
Paris,  effectually  suppressed  the  "devotion,"  ia 
1697,  by  forbidoing  the  priests  of  the  Cross  to 
keep  their  chapels  open  on  the  nights  of  Holy 
Thursday  and  Friday.  Finally,  the  two  commu- 
nities of  priests  ana  hermits  were  formally  sup- 
§  Teased  by  a  decree  of  the  Constituent  Assembly, 
nted  August  18,  1781. 

The  church  of  tlie  Cross  and  the  convent 
building*  still  remained;  but,  a  few  years  later. 
Napoleon,  informed  by  Foncb^  that  they  hnd 
become  the  nightly  resort  of  a  great  number  of 
priests  and  others  who  held  secret  meetings  there- 
in, took  alarm,  and  ordered  the  grenadiers  of  tlm 
guard,  in  earrison  at  Courbevoie,  to  betake  them- 
selves to  ue  dangerous  spot,  arrest  the  snpposed 
conspirators,  and  raze  the  church  and  convent  to 
the  ground.  His  commands  were  executed  to  the 
letter,  end  after  some  delay,  arising  from  fiekl»- 
ness  of  intention,  the  great  msn  gave  orders,  just 


**  3.  VII.  F«B.  19,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


lar 


before   his   own   fall,   that   &  barrack  should  lie 
«i«cted  on  the  desecrated  site. 

At  this  point  commencea  the  modem  histor;  of 
Uont  Val^rien,  which  is  better  knoirn,  and  on 
■rbidi  I  do  not  propose  to  enter. 

William  Bates. 

Blnniagfaun. 

HILTON'S  -RIVERS  ARISE,"  ETa 
This  was  the  onlj  passaf^  in  Miltoa'a  Poemt 
that  I  was  noable  to  eiplaiD  when  commenting 
on  them.  When  at  length  I  became  aware  of 
the  true  eense  of  them  I  made  the  following 
mannacript  change  in  what  I  had  written  on  it  in 
p.  265  of  my  Xt/>  of  MiUtm  .— 
'  "Tbla  AddraMcommnicIngthDi — 

'  Rivera  (riw,  whether  thou  beut  the  son 
or  utmoiC  Tweed,  oi  Ouae,  or  gulfv  Don,'  Ac. 
hai  been  a  pnnle  la  all  critics,  nho,  with  Wsrton,  could 
not  see  *  in  what  senee  or  ia  what  manner  thie  introdno 
tlon  of  the  riven  was  to  be  applied  to  tlie  subject.'  At 
Imgth  tha  reviewer  of  Mbsboh'ii  Lift  c/  .Vilton  in  the 
Sahirdinf  Rmtie  obHTred, '  May  not  the  tcne  eipliaa- 
tioD  of  the  riddle  be  that  tba  part  of  Relatioti  waa  per- 
formed b^  ■  vDuth  of  the  name  of  Rivers  ?  '  Acting 
on  this  hint,  jtlr.  Uauoo  had  inriuirv  made  at  Cam- 
bridge, and  ai  he  infomis  ni  in  Tit  ^rAnunin,  it  ap- 
Eared  that  on  the  18th  of  Mev,  1G9B,  Qeor^  and  Siziil 
vera,  toas  of  Sir  John  Hiveia,  Knt„  of  Weaterbam, 
Kaot,  the  former  Ini  his  loth,  the  litter  in  hia  t4th 
year,  were  admitted  into  Chriit  College  as  leaser  pen- 
alonera.  Tha  whole  riddle  then  ia  thua  aolred,  and  we 
IwTe  an  unexpected  specimen  of  Milton'i  humonr.  In 
tbla  little  drama,  as  we  mav  term  it.  he  performed  tha 
part  of  Ens,  and  those  of  the  t'redicamenti  were  euaUined 
n  ten  of  the  junior  fnahmen,  one  of  whom  no  doubt  waa 
ue  elder  Riven,  on  whose  name  be  pla^a  thus  agree- 
obljr.  There  is  also  an  appropiiateneas  in  doting  the 
catalogue  of  the  rivers  with  the  Meilwajand  the  Thames, 
both  rivers  of  Kent,  and  of  which  the  former  riaea  not 
tmt  fntm  Wasterham,  where  the  Rivera  family  resided. 

"It  necmi  almoal  incredible  that  a  matter  tlius,  we 
may  say.  lyiof;  on  tha  ssrface  should  have  eluded  the 
vision  of  so  many  f^eratlons.  But  the  truth  is,  many 
other  inttUDces  could  he  given  of  averaighta  equal!]'  mar- 

ei  be  reprinted, 
e  Athataum  nor  The  Saturday 
Stview  is  ao  likelj  to  be  consulted  by  ^tore 
inquirers  aa  "N.  &  Q.,"  I  have  thus,  I  trust, 
secured  the  hnowled)^  of  thia  removal  of  the  only 
nmaining  obecurity  in  the  poetry  of  Miltou. 

As  to  the  supposed  lines  of  Milton's  lately  dis- 
covered, I  saw  at  the  first  glance  that  they  were 
not  and  could  not  be  hia.  I  took  no  part  in  the 
miiUe,  and  I  witnessed  with  pleasure  the  final 
triumph  of  good  sense  and  sound  critiinsm. 

Tho3,  Ekiohtlet. 


THE  RET.  HEilRT  FRANCIS  CART. 

Harinic  lately  read  the   Memoir   of  the  Sev, 

Stmy  Fnmeit  Cory,  M.A.,  Trmulalor  of  DttnU, 

4«  (3  ToU.  Ijondon,  1847),  I  wish  to  record  two 

«r  uuM  partienlan  which  may  prove  interesting 


and  perhaps  useful  to  others,  Mid  my  uote-book 
being  at  hand  I  am  enabled  to  do  ao  without 
delay.    "  Procrastination  is  the  thief  of  time." 

It  is  stated  in  vol,  i.  p.  1,  that  hia  mother  was 
"danghtet  of  TheophilusBrocas.Deanof  Killala." 
Dean  Brocas  was  likewise  cbaplain  of  the  Royal 
Chapel  of  SL  Matthew,  Ringsend,  Dublin,  1750- 
1764  (as  mentioned  in  Sr^  Sketchet  of  the 
POrishet  of  Booterttovm  and  Donnybrook,  p.  101) ; 
and  having  died  in  1770,  he  was  buried  in  the 
churchyard  of  St.  Anna's,  Dublin,  as  recorded 
in  the  following  tombstone  inscription,  which  I 
copied  within  the  last  few  years  ; 

"  Here  Ijeth  the  body  of  the  Rev*  Theophilus  Brocas, 
D.D.,  Dean  of  Killsla,  who  departed  this  life  on  tha  17<^ 
day  of  April,  1770,  and  In  the  64»>  year  of  his  age." 

His  death,  according  to  Pue'a  Qcaarretteee,  April 
21,1770,  was  "  an  important  loss  to  the  kingdom,aa 
bis  life  was  devoted  to  the  service  of  the  publick 
in  promoting  the  true  interest  of  this  counby." 
It  IB  to  be  lioped  that  in  the  recent  alterations 
and  improvements  at  St.  Anne's  due  care  has  been 
taken  m  the  tombstones  of  Bean  Brocas  and  many 
other  notables. 

In  ths  same  volume,  p.  84^  where  menUon  of 
Mr.  Gary's  marriage  appears,  it  is  stated  that  "on 
the  19th  of  September,  in  the  same  year  [1796], 
he  married  Jane,  daughter  of  James  Ormsby, 
Esq.,  of  Sandymount  [in  the  parish  of  Donny- 
brook],  Dublin."  Here  there  seetns  to  be  a  slignt 
inaccuracy  in  the  date,  for  in  the  Viutation  return 
of  mairia^  in  Donnybrook  in  1796  (preserved  in 
the  Consistorial  Court,  Dublin),  there  is  the  fol- 
lowing entry : — 

"August  20.  The  Reverend  Heniy  Francis  Cary,  of 
StaSbr&hire,  and  Miss  Jane  Ormsby,  daughter  to  Jomca 
Ormstty,  Esq.,  of  Sandymount." 

Mr.  Ormsby  had  served  as  churchwarden  of  his 
parish  in  1792,  and  in  the  old  churebyard  of 
Donnybrook  there  is  a  stone  over  the  grave  of 
Mrs.  Frances  O.  Ormsby,  wife  of  Cantain  Robert 
Ormsby  of  the  Sligo  Militia,  who  diea  August  10, 
1805,  aged  thirty-two  years. 

The  Donnybrook  parish-register  (1768-1799) 
has  lone  aince  disappeared,  and  u  not  likely,  I 
fear,  tol)e  lecoverea;  and  therefore  the  annual 
returns  of  maniagee,  ftc,  from  one  of  which  the 
foregoing  quotation  has  been  made,  are  the  mors 
to  he  prized.  Abhba, 

WITCHES  IN  IRELAND. 
The  following  curious  case  waa  heard  at  the 

Juarter  sesrions  at  Newtonards,  co.  Down,  Tues- 
n,  Jan.  4,  1871.  It  is  thus  reported  in  ths 
Wiskly  Whig,  Jan.  7, 1871  :— 


Keimtdf  v.  Kauudf. 

"  Thia  waa  a  process  bronght  bv  Ibe  plaintlfl;  Hugh 

Kennedy,  (arm  sarvani,  to  recover  IV.  tmm  the  defendant. 


JJOTB&  Mm  QITEBTES. 


[4ttS.Vn.  F*B.18,7». 


Jobn  Kenoedv,  fknner,  being  one  veal's  wagM  alleged  t 

be  doc. 

"  Ur.  C.  C.  RusMll  appaated  far  the  piaintiff,  aad  tL 
3.  DiDTien  for  (ba  derendaQt. 

"  Tbe  plaintiff  and  defendant  are  brothers,  and  tfa 
point  Id  ditpute  vaa  whether  the  engagemeiit  vaa  T 
■-year  or  71.  the  iialf-f ear,  the  plaintiil'  alleging  the 
IjtUcr.  As  the  evidence  waa  coimlcting,  hii  i»o— "-'- 
nferred  it  and  another  case  between  the  aama  part 


1  bj  Ur.  Ruasell, 
leriod  he  was  in  the  defeni 
)d  in  bpniahing  witchca  oat  of  tbe  honae,  and 
on  cne  lana.  Witchea  were  belieTed  to  s(>|ottni  on  the 
plaintiff's  farm,  and  in  conseijaeDce  some  of  his  cows 
died,  and  hii  crapa  were  of  inferior  qaality.  Bdief 
existed  in  tbe  efficacj  of  a  certain  chann,  patent  in 
expelling  nltehcs;  but,  sithoogh  considered  nnfaiting, 
the  experiment  was  attended  with  dangeroos  oonie- 
qnences.  and  no  peraoa  could  be  Iblind  bad  eaongh  ' 
DodHrtake  the  carrying  ont  of  the  necraaary  directio  _. 
The  danger  lay  in  the  fact  Ibat  if  any  one  of  the  requisites 
of  the  charm  rei^ained  anfulfilled,  the  penon  endeavonr- 
ing  to  effect  the  banishment  irtiuld  he  carried  off  by  the 
witches,  and  woold  never  more  be  heard  of.  Plaintiff, 
who  was  himself  a  believer  in  witchcraft,  was  itkduned  to 
nndertake  the  hazardous  attempt  to  work  the  charm. 
Ad  evening  was  agreed  upon  to  put  tbe  witches  to  flight. 
They  were  supposed  to  take  up  their  residence  in  the 
house  after  n  Rertain  hoar,  and  lo  remain  there  titi  break 
of  day ;  and  if  the  charm  was  soocessfally  worked  th(y 
woald  not  only  be  for  ever  dislodged  from  the  dwelling, 
bat  would  never  more  set  foot  upon  tbe  farm.  The  mode 
adopted  was  aa  rollows ;  —  AU  the  Inbabltanta  left  tba 
house  wiib  lbs  exception  of  the  plaintiff,  who  had  to  (act 
tbe  witches  alone.  He  locked  himself  in,  closed  the 
windows.  BtnHed  ill  keyholes  and  apertures,  and  pnt  aoda 
4MI  the  tops  of  the  chimneys.  He  then  pnt  a  large  pot  of 
■weeC  milk  on  tbe  fire,  in  tbe  pot  he  put  three  rowa  of 
idDS  that  had  never  been  naed,  and  three  packages  of  new 
needles.  The  milk,  needles,  and  pins  were  allowed  to 
boil  together  for  half  an  hour.  As  there  was  no  outlet 
for  the  smoke,  plaintiff  was  nearly  amolhered,  and  during 
the  time  the  charm  was  maturing,  be  ijelieved  be  bad  an 
encounter  with  the  witche^  and  succeeded  In  driving 
them  from  Che  house.  At  all  evente,  none  of  them  had 
appeared  in  the  place  since,  and  he  had  never  heard  any 
complaints  abont  ihe  cons  milking  badly,  or  the  crops 
not  giving  satisfaction. 

"The  court  was  coDTubed  with laoghter  daring  this 
extraordinary  recital. 

"On  tbe  return  of  the  arbitratoia  into  court,  they 
stated  that  in  the  case  for  wages,  they  found  for  the 
plaintiff  in  Ihe  sum  of  IDi.  The  other  case  was  dtsiDissed." 

W.  H.  P. 


Toe  If  EiHiHa  op  "Momsiboe,  Monsieue," — 
I  have  frequently  been  asked  in  BriCtiia  why,  ia 
our  country,  they  put  the  word  Monmear  twice 
oti  the  Rddrese;  "A  Monsiaur,  Monsieur,"  etc. 
tiy  answer  was  that  the  first  Monmmr  should 
be  writfen  in  two  words,  aud  translated  "  my 
lord  "  (mon  near,  man  leiffiteiv). 

If  you  open  the  Vu^tioimaire  dt  la  Laagntfrm*- 
Caiie—m  ably  comjuled  by  my  learned  frieud 
Mone.  Littrd — you  will  find  under  the  word 
"  Monneur"  (vol.  ii.  p.  611,  ool.  3)  that  tbo  Mote, 


united  with  the  name  of  a  town,  waa  foimarij 

used  ta  designate  the  hiahop  of  the  diocese  of 
which  that  town  waa  the- capital;  but  he  omitted 
to  add  that  it  meant  also  the  hangman,  as  ya« 
may  see  by  the  Affmoirei  de  Samaon,  and  Aboat'a 
JjU  Managtn  de  Forie.  This  double  acceptation 
led  lately  to  a  very  ludicrous  misunderstaodiD^, 
the  narrative  of  which  may  amuse  your  readers. 

A  young  orderly,  who  had  learnt  imperfectly, 
tbe  German  langu^e  (but,  however,  boaatod  of 
being  a  thorough  master  of  it),  baviDg  been  s«it 
to  toe  Proesiau  outposts  with  a  flag  of  truoe, 
appeared  in  the  company  of  a  stately  gentleman, 
much  dignified,  and  dressed  like  a  reverend  one. 
This  gentleman  tbe  young  officer  (who,  I  suspect^ 
is  tbe  author  of  tbe  song  you  lately  printed)  in- 
troduced to  the  Oerman  commander  as  "  Monsieur 
de  Paris,"  and  I  beg  to  introduce  him  to  you  as 
Mens.  Hendriek,  the  hangman  of  Paris,  who, 
being  a  German,  or  at  least  of  Uerman  extiao- 
tioo,  speaks  fluently  the  language  of  the  in- 
Tader.      Now  it   happened    tbe   Teuton   waa    a 

Cious  Roman  Catholic,  mora  cosversant  with  tbtt 
inguage  of  Madame  de  Miuntenon  aod  of  th» 
CoQcoraat  than  with  the  phcaseologr  iu  o>e  at 
preewL  Be  acoordingly  prostrated  nimself  be- 
fore the  Ingubrieus  gentleman,  kissed  his  basda^ 
and  acted  so  many  fantastic  extravagenees,  after 
the  Oerman  fashion,  that  the  young  wag  and  bis 
interpreter  were  put  extremely  out  of  countenance. 
Still  the  ktter  took  great  care,  for  the  sake  of  his 
own  life,  not  to  show  la  corde. 

One  word  more,  to  be  added  to  Uttr^'s  article. 
Ia  the  nautical  language,  the  title  of  monnno-  ia 
particularly  given  by  the  crew  to  the  lowest  of 
them,  the  numutj  the  abip-boy,  and  the  reason  of 
that  is  obvious :  it  is  a  joKe  founded  on  the  like- 
ness between  numite  and  motuieur^  pronoanced  at 
Maraeillee  and  Bordeaux  mmitsH. 


Athenteum  Clab. 


F£incisaux-MicHKi. 


Bbab-baitirq. — I  was  never  a  witness  of  a 
bear-bait,  but  I  well  remember  a  poor  brute  who- 

was  kept  alive  for  this  sole  purpose,  at  F in 

Lancaenire.  He  was  confined,  as  a  general  rnle^ 
in  a  small  back  yard,  where  siKbtleaa,  dirty,  stink- 
ing, and  perhaps  balf'Starreo,  his  sole  and  con- 
slant  eserdse  appeared  to  be  moving  bis  bead 
and  forequarters  from  side  to  side.  When  taken 
other  villages  to  be  baited,  bis  advent  ther» 
s  announced  by  a  wretched  fiddler,  who  walked 
before  him  and  the  bear-ward.  Upon  one  occa- 
sion the  story  |ioeB  that  be  and  a  second  cham- 
pion of  tbe  like  kind  arrived  at  W.  on  tbe 
wakes-day,  before  tbe  evening  ohureh  service  was 
campleted.  This,  however,  was  rapidly  brouvbt 
to  a  close  by  the  beadle  calling  to  the  prea^ar 
from  the  church  door :  "  Mestur,  tb*  bear  a  c«me ; 
and  what's  more,  there's   two  of  'em."     This 


«*ia.ru.  rsm.  i( 


7(0 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


IS9 


&eedom  of  Bpeech  in  [»  holj  plnca  is  lees  to  be 
wondered  Rt  when  it  is  known  that  the  good 
lectoi  and  a  party  from  the  rectory  usually  wil^ 
nawed  the  beai^bait  ftonx  the  chuicbyud  adjuin- 
ii^  the  village  gtsen.  M.  D. 

GAI.AIB  ADD  Six  Gilbebt  Talbot  ik  1613. — 
The  following  old  Fieatik  letter,  signed  by  Gilbert 
Talbot,  the  then  English  governor,  mny  be  of 
anffieient  interest  to  merit  preserration  in  the 
pages  of  "  N.  &  Q." 

Henbt  T.  Wake. 

CockcrmoaUi. 

"  Tnsfaaolte  &  tteaexcelleDle  priocciM  et  ma  trca- 
konnoiuee  Dame  taut  et  si  treshnmblement  que  faire  puu 
a  y^  bonne  gnee  Je  me  Becommand*  I  A  U  qaells  plaise 
ttmnt  I  que  ce  Jour  Dhuy^  Jay  Becea  U  I'rea  quil  vons  ■ 
jiIml  mescrire  |  par  lesqaelles  mo  faielu  uuoir  qne  pnia 
■igaares  ung  navire  ctaarga  da  tiiui  dauxenoiii  poai  la 
proTuion  de  lostel  de  manv  le  prince  de  CutUle  eC  du 
Vts  a  rate  print  et  mis  en  maniere  que  load'  navire  et 
Tina  Hiieot  lacontinent  mis  aa  delifie  |  et  les  laiisei 
allerparderan  todb. 

"  Tnsbaulte  tresezeellente  pHncene  et  ma  treshon- 
nonrve  Dame  J  anant  la  Reception  de  vos  d'  I'rea  |  Je  Teoz 
adverti  de  lad  prinM  |  et  IncontiDent  Jescripny  aiud'  de 
dooie  de  iwnffrir  led'  ninire  departlr  anecqae  lead'  vina  { 
ce  qne  a  esle  faict  en  mnniere  qail  eat  ce  Jonr  Dhuj 
aiTyae  an  banre  de  ceat  ViUe  I  et  ay  ordonne  an  maistre 
dlcellay  de  paitir  a  son  boa  plaiiir  et  TOuUoir  poar  con- 
dnyre  et  meaei  lead'  tIdi  pardevers  Tons.  |  En  vona  as- 
KuriDt  madatae  qne  noa  pas  Eeullement  en  ce^t  endroict 
JedeainaToiueonipUiieet  faire  Kmice  |  mais  en  toutes 
antrea  ehoses  a  moj  poHiiblei  §e]oii  mon  petitpoavir  I 
Car  en  ce  faisant  Je  aaia  sar'  faire  Bcrviue  treMgreibte 
aa  Roy  mon  aoaveraia  se'r  v're  bon  Cooiin.  | 

"Treahanlte  et  trewxcellente  priacease  et  ma  treshon- 
nooree  Dame  Je  sopplieau  beaolat  tainet  esperict  Tooa 
ectmyer  leatiere  accomplisKmeat  de  vox  tieshaulz  et 


euUdt 


SJ. 


)t  I  Ian  XT"  & 


a  Calais  le  xxv™*  Jonr  da 
xij  (35.  ang.  I&IS). 

"  V're  treshomble  &  tnaobeissant  Servit'. 

Gtlbkkt  Talbot." 

The  superscription  is  w  follows,  tLe.  :  — 
"  A  trtsbaolte  et  treaaxceUente  piineewe  et  ma  treabon- 
neoree  Dame,  Uadame  Margarita  AniiiidiicbeHB  d'aua- 
trie  doeesie  et  contene  de  bourg"  doBaiglere  de  Saooye, 
"Begtnte  et  goaveman',  etc" 

CuBiouB  Precubsobs  of  the  Pretiwdbr. — 
A  London  pftper  of  July,  1745,  gives  the  follow- 
ing accoDst  of  an  ftdtenturer;  — 

"  EdJDbn^h,  Jane  ST.  We  have  not  yet  heard  to 
iriiat  Comer  of  tbe  World  David  Gillia  (who  bad  aasamed 
tke  diaricter  of  lbs  Pretender's  son)  tied  after  getting 
OBtof  the  Jiilof  Couper  in  Fife,  vbere  be  had  been  eon- 
limed  for  vBiions  rogneries^  But  'tis  certain  he  eame  to 
lUi  city  about  nioe  months  ago,  accompanied  by  his 
confederate  Billy  (who  is  now  in  caatody  at  Selkirk),  and 
after  aelling  their  horsea  took  Roams  in  Multrees  bills. 
GWt  fell  to  work,  and  painted  the  'Vialuiioo  of  the 
Maui,'  ■St.CedLi'C.K),  -The  Miaer,"  Jane  Shora,' 4=.. 
wUdi  CDDnoisaeais  eoDSider  finiahed  piccea ;  and  Billy 
watraghtjoomeyman  toa  shoemaker.  Bat  chasing lather 
to  slmlt  about  than  earn  their  bread  in  an  honest  way, 
»  and  etaaractert,  and  impoaed 
heNeigh- 


bonrtiood  of  this.  Upon  beariDg  tbat  warrants  wen 
issued  for  apprehending  Gillia,  be  fled  to  Ormislon  in 
Eaat  Lothiao,  where  he  passed  for  Peter  Dauglaa,  Uiq. 
Here,  finding  the  people  devoutly  inclined,  be  canted  and 
prayed  with  them  to  AdsiratiiM,  and  declared  that 
Whilefield  was  a  Siet  rate  saint;  but  hearing  that  a 


>  payai 


About  a  fortnight  later  it  ie  stated,  under  dnte 
Edinburgh,  July  16:  — 

"  David  Gillia,  who  lately  acted  the  Prince  in  the 
Confines  of  Ihis  City,  and  who  with  his  confedtnte 
William  Rae  was  lately  dmmmed  out  and  bani^ied 
the  Connty  of  Selkirk,  la  returned  hither  with  his  con- 

A  week  afterwards  the  London  OatOU  offered 

ita  reward  of  30,000i.  for  the  appTebeusiou  of  the 

real  Pretender,  if  there  can  be  such  o,  deugnation. 

E.C. 

HBiVKN  Lbttbrs. — A  letter  written  in  Qotha, 
Germany,  and  published  in  a  New  York  news- 
paper, contuns  the  following  passage :  — 

"  Onr  old  Fran  ttdd  us  she  had  a  brother  in  tbe  army, 
and  when  we  exprtaeed  a  hope  that  nothing  would  hap- 
pen Id  him,  aha  replied:  'Oh!  no,  he  has  a  Heaven  letter 
on  him  1  he  ia  all  aafe.'  We  asked  her  what  a  Heaven 
letter  was,  at  which  she  seemed  mnch  sarpiiwd,  wonder- 
ing that  we  had  never  heard  of  it.  She  said  asveral  of 
the  peasantry  of  the  village  owned  cMie,  though  where 
they  originated  or  where  they  got  them  she  did  not 
know.  We  expteased  much  interest,  and  lald  that  we 
wanted  mnch  to  see  what  kind  of  thing  it  waa  that  thus 
protected  its  wearer  from  all  earthly  ill.  She  teemed 
much  averse  to  speaking  about  it,  and  did  not  think  she 
could  get  one  for  us  (  hut  the  next  morning,  befna  we 
were  op,  ahe  came  to  us  with  one  ahe  had  bcfrowed  from 
a  friend.  It  must  have  been  very  old,  perhapa  having 
come  down  from  father  to  aon  i  for  though  of  parchment, 
it  was  worn  in  holes.  It  contained  a  not  lU-aketched 
pictnte  of  tbe  crudfled  Saviour,  at  whose  feet  lav  an 
apple,  cut  open,  and  exposing  the  seeds  to  view,  'lliere 
were  a  number  of  veraea  which  we  could  not  make  out, 
except  that  there  were  several  invocations  to  the  Trinity 


Ubesa. 

Pbiladelpbia. 

Tba, — The  following  notice  of  tea  is  cojued 
from  the  Station  <^  the  Voymge  to  Siam  iy  Six 
JendU  m  1686,  London,  1688,  p.  S60:  — 

"  It  Is  a  civility  amonRit  tham  to  present  betle  and  tea 
to  all  that  visit  them.  Ilielr  own  country  anppUea  them 
with  betle  and  areca,  but  they  have  their  tea  from  China 
and.  Japan.  All  tbe  Orientals  have  a  particular  esl«em 
for  it.  becaose  of  the  great  virtues  they  find  to  be  in  it. 
Their  physiciana  say  that  it  is  a  Bovereign  medicine 
against  the  atone  and  pains  of  the  hoad ;  that  it  ailaya 
vaponrsi  that  it  cbears  the  mind,  and  atrengtbeos  the 
Etomack.  In  all  kinds  of  feavers  they  lake  it  atronjter 
[ban  commonly,  when  they  begin  to  feel  the  heat  of  the 
St,  and  then  the  patient  covera  Mmaelf  np  to  sweat,  and 
it  bath  been  very  ofttm  found  that  this  sweat  wholly 
drivea  away  the  feavor.  In  the  East  they  prepare  the 
tea  in  this  manner :  when  the  water  is  well  boiled,  ihey 
ponr  it  upon  the  tea  which  they  have  put  into 
pot,  proportionablj  to  what  they  intend  tt 
ordinary  proportion  is  as  much  aa  one  a-  '■ 


HI  Doueu,  iney 
nto  an  earthen  .  [„ 
1  to  take  (the  MC 
n  take  np  with    ' 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*"5.Tlt.lf««.I8,71. 


Soonaf 


the  fii 

it,  BDiI  Attanrard  give  it  iboal  iii  cbint  dhho 
dnnk  u  hot  »a  o»n  be  without  sQuar,  or  else  with  ■  liltli 
HUimr-ondj  in  the  maath;  and  upon  that  tea  man 
boiling  T"Ht«  may  b*  ponrerf,  and  so  it  may  be  mad*  U 
aerre  twiw.  These  peofiledrink  of  It  several  llmea  a-day 
but  do  not  think  it  vboUom  to  take  it  r»ting." 

\V.  E.  A.  A, 

EKR0EiFNBiLL's"Hi8T0Rr  opthbViboikia 
CoKPiwr." — Neill  id  his  Hiitory  of  the  VirgitUa 
Company  of  London,  p.  225,  writing  of  'Willinm 
Cleylwme,  tecictaif  of  state  for    that  colonv, 

naker  prescher  in  1CT3.  met  him  at  ■ 
and  vol  invited  to  iM  at  his  bouM. 
■0  dieil,  for  the  preacher  in  hia 
joaraal  lavs, '  Hewaa  oaulidwin  man.  received  the  truth, 
and  died  'in  the  aame,  leaving  two  fileudi  hia  exccu- 

This  quotation  rehn  to  tbe  cooimiMioner 
Richntd  Bennet,  und  not  to  Cleybnruc,  (Piffc 
EdmimdMn's  Juurnal,  A.D.  1710,  p.  US.) 

NniKDD. 

Pedestbij,:<'  Feat  or'  Pikaj)AY. — I  sea  it  Bl&ted 
in  an  article  on  Foradaj  (Edinburgh  Mtiiiew,  Julv, 
1870),  that  "  one  day  htj  started  alone  from  the 
Batha  of  Leuli,  over  the  Gemmi,  past  Kandersteg 
and  Frutigen,  all  the  wa;  to  Thun,  doings  the 
forty-five  milea  in  ten  and  a  half  hours  without 
much  fatigue  and  with  do  ill  efTects." 

Conaiderinr  the  long  and  ateep  ascent  of  the 
Gemini,  nhich  must  have  been  macte  in  this 
diiectioa,  the  walk  is  one  of  the  most  extraordi- 
nary ones  OB  record. 

I  speak  from  my  own  pedestrian  experience  on 
the  line  indicated.  FitAKcia  TnEncn. 

Illip  Bectory. 

Kehcott,  Oxok. — In  the  chancel  of  this  church 
on  the  south  wall  there  is  a  curious  monument — 
curious  not  in  itself,  but  from  the  fact  that  it  is 
set  in  a  wooden  case,  with  onk  folding  doors  like 
a  triptych  to  close  over  all  and  protect  it  from 
iqiury.  It  ia  to  the  memory  of  Richard  Colchea- 
ter  of  Westbury,  CO.  Oloater,  D.C.L.,  who  died 
Sept  11,  1643.  Also  to  his  wife  Eliiabeth, 
daughter  of  Sir  Hngh  Hammersley,  Knt.,  Lord 
Mayor  of  London,  by  Mary,  daughter  of  Baldwins 
Dorham  of  Derham,  co.  Norfolk.  The  arms  dis- 
played ve — Or,  a  chevrou  between  three  estoiles 
inilas  [granted  16261,  impaling  gulas,  three  rams' 
heads  couped  or.  W.  M.  H.  C. 

P.S.  In  the  head  of  the  Norman  dooi  of  this 
churdi  ia  a  bold  earring  of  Sagittarius,  with  the 
letters  BA«iT}  the  arrow  baa  parted  from  the 
bow-string. 


THE  WINCnESTEE  "DOMUM  "  SOSU. 
I  do  Dotrecollect  that  any  of  your  correepoDdents 
have  ever  suggested  any  inquirr  as  to  the  author- 
ship of  the  popular  song,  which  precedes  the 
summer  vacation  of  Wincheeter  School,  called  the 
"Domum."  It  has  frequently  been  sung  in  my 
hearing,  but  no  inquiry  of  mine  has  ever  been 
aatisfactorily'answered  aa  to  the  origin  or  author- 
It  has  something  of  the  nil  and  aspect  of  an 
early  medieval  hymn  or  chHOson.  On  the  other 
hand,  there  are  symptoms  in  it  of  Martial  and 


few  lines  from  a  song  to  the  Viigin,  printed  in  the 
"  Poimet  <mltriruret  mi  tfoto^nie  liicle,"  by  Ed6~ 
lestand  du  MdriL  Paris,  1843  :— 
"  Dormi,  fill,  diilce  mater 

Dalce  melos  conciuam ; 

Dormi,  nate,  auave,  paler, 

Ne  quid  deait  slemam  roaia, 

Staroam  ftenam  vioIi% 
ravlinentnm  hyaciutfaJa, 
Et  prsffipe  liliii." 
So  in  Martial  (Ep^.  402)  we  have  — 
"  Phosphors  rfdde  diem,  qnid  gaiidia  nostra  moraris  ? 

Oiare  venturo,  Pbosphore,  ri'dilo  diem," 
I  quote  BO  much  of  the  "  Domum  "  song  as  re- 
minds me  of  the  above  passn^s : — 
"  Conetnaniaa,  o  aodalea 
^a  !  qnid  allemua  ! 
Nolule  canllcam 
Dolce  meliM  domnm 
Dolce  domnm  rcaonemui. 


liora  gaud 


Concinamns  ad  penatea 
VoK  et  aadiatnr 
Pboaphore  ijnid  jubar 


On  the  whole,  I  think  we  can  asugn  i 


66, 198 ;  xi 


Bpondant  is  reftrred  ' 

56;  iO-S-X-SBl;  vL 


166.] 


"  QirsKR  Abbbkis,"— A  poem  under  this  title 
appeared  in  BlackteooJ't  Magaeme  for  December, 
1839.  Is  its  author  knovm?  The  referenMts  to 
Dartmoor  and  Babbicombe  seem  to  indicate  a 
Devonshire  man.    Then,  as  to  the  characters :  — 


■"S.  Vli.  Feb.  18.  71.] 


XOTES  AXD  QUERIES. 


141 


Andnipio  is.  of  course,  Metboume.  Who  is  Sid- 
rophellP  Does  AntoDio  mean  PalmeratoDP  Tbs 
fioiuicier  I  esBume  to  be  Spiing  Bice,  who  -was 
created  LordMonteagle  on  AuRuatSTj  1839.  Who 
ia  Hkcario,  "  of  ObIUc  origin  "f  RouaiUon  is  mani- 
featly  Lord  Russell  — 

"  Ttw  bett  4iid  tnutiot  of  the  Qoeea'a  dlTU." 

The    "orator   of    giant    furce"    i^    doubtlesa, 

BroDgbam,  and  O'CoddbH  the  demagogue 

"  Who  svajed  ■  great  part  af  tbe  populouc" 

I  shall  be  veiy  glad  to  have  infonnation  rb  tu 

the  other  characters  adumbrated  by  the  poet 

JUaxboohbib. 

Tan  Blbaklsz  Faiolj. — A  branch  of  this 
f.iinil^  settled  in  the  county  Down,  Ireland,  Bomo 
time  in  the  reign  of  the  second  Charles  or  there- 
abouts. Tbej  are  traditionallj  said  to  have  been 
of  English  descent— probably  from  Yorkshire  or 
Devonshire,  in  ivbich  latter  county  there  was  a 
place  called  Bleakley  Hall.  The  crest  or  arms  of 
the  Irisb  branch  was  a  blacliamoor  or  Saracen's 
head,  and  the  prevtulin)^  Christian  names,  David, 
iBdward,  and  John,  which  matters  may  afford  a 
clue  to  the  English  progenitors.  If  some  of  your 
correepnadents  familiar  with  English  family  his- 
tory, more  particularly  of  Devonshire  and  York- 
shire, would  afford  the  inquirer  information  on  the 
subject,  they  would  greatly  oblige        I.  W.  H. 

Chnrdi  Stmt,  Dawnpatilck. 

BxLiMOsa  AND  Nbwsp.^pebb. — More  than  half  a 
century  ago  I  read  a  notel  called  Tht  Lad  Man.' 
I  think  it  was  in  four  volumes  12mo.  My  father 
had  it  in  his  librair.  When  be,  however,  re- 
moved from  his  then  reaideDCe  in  Bromley, 
Kent,  it  was  sold,  with  the  other  weedings,  by 
nuction  by  Messrs.  Mandy.  It  was  a  novel  of  the 
Minerva  Press  school,  the  immediate  predecessor 
of  the  houses  of  Bentley,  Saunders  &;  Otley, 
Oolbnn,  &c  Whether  the  two  prophecies  I  am 
about  to  mention  from  it  will  assist  Dr.  Gum- 
ming in  proving  that  we  are  near  the  eve  of  the 
last  day  I  am  unaware,  but  certainly  they  are 
quite  pertinent  to  the  present  period. 

1,  In  Tlie  Laet  Mm%  (if  I  remember  aright)  all 
troMllmff  vmt  to  be  performed  by  baUoon.  This 
is  not  yet  quite  sccomplished,  but  the  French 
govemment  ia  umng  balloons  for  its  businesB  pur- 
poses, and  one  of  its  most  important  mmisters, 
too,  has  made  an  aerial  voyage. 

2.  That  neK^>apers  tooaid  be  ptAiMtd  mtn/ Itpo 
hmrt.  This  prophe^  certunly  has  been  fulfilled, 
for  what  with  various  editions  of  threepenny 
Tunei,  penny  Daily  Telegraphs,  Standardi,  &c., 
and  ^t,  second,  third,  fourth,  and  later  editions 
of  faal^nny  Edmte,  we  have  now  newspapers 
iMoed  oR«ner  than  every  two  hours. 


There  were  other  curi 
volumes^  especially  one  of  which  at  present  we 
have  no  signs,  and  I  trust  it  will  not  occur  in  my 
time — viz.  that  in  consequence  of  the  productive 
powers  of  the  earth  becoming  exhausted,  the  last 
man  himself  directs,  a  hundred  years  before  his  own 
decease,  the  people,  who  are  then  fast  decaying 
out  of  the  world  (no  births  taking  placo),  to  culti- 
vate the  high  and  the  bye  roads,  and  to  turn  the 
channels  of  the  rivers,  so  as  to  obtain  an  unculti- 
vated virgin  soil  whereon  to  raise  a  Few  cereals. 

Qy.  Where  can  I  see  a  copy  of  TJie  Lad  Man  t 
I  have  searched  the  British  Museum  catalogues, 
and'it  is  not  there.* 

Qy.  When  did  the  Minerva  Press  commence 

Subiiahing  its  wondrous  lot  of  books,  and  when 
id  it  cease  its  labours  ?  Mr.  Colbum  was,  I  be- 
lieve, the  originator  of  the  nresent  fashion  of 
3  vols,  post  8vo  novels  at  IJ^  lis.  6^ ;  or  did  it 
commence  in  Scotland  with  Waverkyf  I  hope 
that  Mr.  Yboweli.  will  reply  to  this  question, 
for  no  gentleman  is  so  thoroughly  acquainted  with 
the  subject.  Alfbbd  Johk  Dcitxur. 

DlrUbnl. 

R,  p.  BojnwoTOir.— Did  this  artist  ever  spell 
"Bonninglon"  in  signing  his  works  f  Can  any 
of  your  readers  solve  my  diiGcultyP        T.  S.  A. 

[In  Brjan'i  Did.  D/Painteri(l8i9)  thin  Btmeiispeit 
BoiiiiiDgton.  The  foUowlDg  panEiaph  aliw  eppean : — 
"  Posterity  should  b«  made  swara  that  manv  plctana 
and  drswlnss,  attributed  to  this  artist,  are  ciples  and 
Imitations  made  to  satisfy  tlie  avidity  of  collector*,  and 
amplr  to  rciiiuncnite  the  skill  of  the  copyist  and  the 
capiditf  of  tho  dealer."] 

Caivin  iKD  Skrvetos.— Can  von  or  any  <rf 
your  corregpondenta  inform  me  if  there  is  unques- 
tionable authority  for  the  stat«ment  that  Calvin 
was  personallypresent  at  the  burning  of  SerretusF 


[3ee  "N.  4  Q."  li»  S.  L  266,  39( ;  IL  40,  68, 108, 166,] 
Children's  Oaubs.— What  is  the  ori^n  of  the 
common  game  in  Scotland,  in  which  the  follow- 
ing rhymes  occur  ?  — 

"  Uo«  maDV  miles  to  Babylvu  ? 
Three  scare  and  ten. 
Shall  1  t>e  there  by  caDdle-ltght  ? 
O  ycf,  and  btci  again." 
I  can  vouch  for  its  being  as  old  as  1706,  at  any 
late.  S. 

[A  description  of  this  and  a  aimilir  game,  with  a  more 
eoinptele  version  of  (he  lines,  i>  given  in  R.  Chambers's 
Fopular  AAyn»  n/  Scolbmd,  edit.  1870,  p.  tSS.] 

CisTSBCiAiT  MoKASTBBT. — Would  you  inform 
me  which  is  considered  the  finest  Cisteruan  mon- 


[*  The  falloirin;;  wort  Is  ia  the  BriDsh  Haseamj — 
"Tlie  Last  Man,  or  Omegams  and  Sydrrla,  a  Romance       > 
In  Futarity.    Two  Vols.      R  Dutton,  4S,  Gnuxdmrrh    1    p 
Street,  180e."    It  ia  entered  in  the  new  catalogne  onder  S 
the  word  "Omoganis,"  piees-roark  S,  87*.— En,] 


143 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[l'»8.TU.F«B.18,7I. 


asteij,  or  lathe?  ruins  of  one,  in  Enfcland;  «nd 
.  wlietlier  tiere  is  »ny  good  account  of  It  ? 

A  FoKEiaKia. 

rOnr  cormpandeDt  should  tomnlt  A  Hmdbook  to  the 
Abbot  of  Si.  Mara  af  Funun,  n  Lanaukirt,  DlTerston, 
1846.  8vo,  which  PBI.1.1M  ■  deKription  of  tUa  funed 
GUimixa  aUwj-.-wiUi  illatnitknu.] 

CsinciBii  Mr  "Mkeckajit  ob  Vbhicb";  Mbs. 
Dowirraa.— 1.  IrecolleEthKringread an  anecdote 
of  a  child,  noted  in  after  life  for  its  literary  or 
social  poaition,  which,  during  a  lepreaantation  of 
Shakespeare's  Iterdumi  of  Venice,  towards  the  end 
of  the  fourth  act,  where  Shylock  leaves  the 
court,  indignantly  eidaimed,  "The  poor  man  is 
wronged  I "  Can  any  of  your  readers  inform  me 
who  this  child  was,  and  hy  whom  this  enecdote 
i£  related  P 

2.  Can  any  of  your  readers  giTe  some  account 
of  the  Iriah  poetess  Mrs.  Downinf[,  some  of  whose 
impassioned  poems  aie  printed  m  Lovers  J^rtcs 
o/Jriiond  (pp.  220,229,  317)  P  Have  her  poems 
ever  been  published  in  a  collected  form  f  When 
and  where  was  she  bora,  and  when  did  she  dieF 
The  more  dates  the  account  contiuns,  the  more 
Bcaeptable  it  will  be.  Eut  Elzb,  Ph.D. 

Dona,  Feb.  7,1871. 

CoBRntT  EsOLisa:  "Whbthke  ok  ho." — 
Why  do  persons,  otherwise  well-infonned,  give 
themselves  the  habit  of  using  the  phrase  "whether 
mno"  instead  of  "  whether  or  not " P  Careleas- 
nesa  of  tte  h^d  is  ecarcely  pirdonable  in  conver- 
sation uid  in  private  correspondence;  but  such 
"  Blip-shod  "  English  is  inexcusable  in  those  who 
write  for  pablication.  The  critical  readeis  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  will  oblige  Irf  supporting  this  view  of 
the  question  if  they  agree  with  the  writer^  or  vice 
vertd,  for  after  all  there  may  be  two  opbions  on 
the  auWect,  and  it  would  be  curious  to  know 
apon  what  grounds  the  phrase  which  I  complain 
of  could  be  defended.  M.  A.  B. 

Evklth's  "Diary."— At  Paris,  164»,  Septem- 
ber 12— 

"  Dr.  Crighton,  ■  Scotchman,  and  one  of  hia  msjeBlla's 
chiplaius,  s  learned  Greeiin  who  set  oat  the  CouDcil  of 
Florence,  preached. 

What  can  this  mean  P  The  Council  of  Florense, 
a  continaation  of  that  of  Ferrara,  being  held  in 
1439  to  1442,  the  object  of  which  was  the  re- 
union of  the  Greek  and  X^tin  churches ;  and  no 
other  having  been  called  since  that  of  Trent  until 
the  present  now  in  lecesg,  J.  A.  Q. 

Cuiibrooke. 

[Evelvn's  aUmion  «  tu  Dr.  Robert  Creighton'a  irork, 
entitled'"  Vera  Histoiia  DDfonia  non  vene  inter  Grscos 
et  Latinos  :  eive  ConcUli  Flonntini  exact,  oacratio,  Qr.  et 
Lat.  Hape,  1660,  fbL"] 

GmsB  iKD  GtiizoT, — This  name  has  generally 
ben  proDotmced  as  if  spelt  in  English  Otteeie  ,- 
but  as  M.  Oviiot  is  said  to  pronoanoe  his  own 


name  as  Oweeto,  and  as  the  place  from  which  Uw 
duke  takes  his  title  is  marked  in  the  bast  dio- 
tionaries  (as  an  exception  to  nan  than  Sity 
words  be^nning  Oia)  to  be  proDoanced  Om-^Et, 
Fr.,  or  gneas.  Mug.,  it  might  be  presomed  that  the 
duke's  name  should  follow  the  aane  nnmuDeia- 
wejl-educated 
W.M.T. 


What  is  be  TMlly  oaUad  by  w 


Hkbvey  OB  Hebbbt. — With  Bibles  of  the  rix- 
teenth  centurr  there  is  often  bound  up  "Two 
right  proStable  and  fruitful  Concordances,  ftc, 
collected  by  E.  F.  H.,"  the  weface  to  which  is 
signed  "  Thine  in  the  Lord,  Robert  F.  Hervey," 
and  dated  Dec  22,  1678.  In  catalogues  the 
author  of  these  Conccodances  is  at  difiarent  times 
called  Hervey  and  Kerrey,  and  I  am  unable  to 
make  oat  from  inspection  of  several  copies  whe- 
ther it  is  on  r  or  D.  Can  any  one  tell  me ;  and 
also,  whether  «nythiQg  is  known  of  him  P 

s.  H.  A.  a 

Lambsth. 

tBobert  F.  Henef,  the  editoi  of  the  CDaeordances.  is 
uown  to  fkme.  The  foUaving  edidoiu  of  bis  work 
■r«  in  the  BriOah  Hdhdib— 1&T9, 1680, 1598, 16I&,  1619, 
1622.1 

Aleiasdbr  Jahiesok,  H.A.— -Who  was  heP 
He  is  deaeribed  as  the  audior  of.il  Ctiettial  Atiat, 
London,  1822.  L.  C.  B. 

FoBTBAiT  OP  John  Eay.  —  I  am  very  anxious 
to  find  a  certain  lithographed  portrait  of  John 
Kay,  of  Bu^,  tbe  inventOT  of  the  "fly-shuttle," 
and  tbe  father  of  the  present  ayetem  of  cotton 
manufacture.  The  portrait  to  which  I  refer  wae 
published  in  March  1843.  It  was  drawn  by  W. 
Phyuck,  and  lithograph^  by  Madely,  3,  Welling- 
ton Street,  Strand,    If  any  of  your  readers  can  in- 


StK  Sahubl  Luks's  LxtTBB  Book. — Was  thia 
old  Letter  Book  of  the  seventeenth  century,  now 
I  believe  in  the  British  Museum,  ever  printed  P 
Hehey  T.  Wake, 

Cockenaonlb. 
[The  Letler  Hook  of  Kr  Samuel  Luke,  the  hero  of 

Hudibrta,  ia  in   tbe    British  Muiwum,  Egertaa  HSS. 
785-787.    It  has  never  been  printed,] 

Fea3T  op  thb  NAirvm. — I  should  feel  much 
obliged  for  information  as  to  the  earliest  record  of 
the  commemoration  of  ^e  Feast  of  the  Nativity 
on  December  30.  Z  believe  it  to  be  a  very 
andent  institution,  though  not  traceable  to  Apo- 
stolic timea.  Has  It  any  connection  with  the 
astronomical  quarters  of  the  year?  At  what  period 
did  it  assume  the  character  of  saturnalia  P 

Z.Z. 

[A  reference  to  that  most  usofttl  volnme.  Tile  Pragtr- 
Book  iHttrltmtd,  by  Campion  and  Beamont,  vllt  girs 


4*  a  TIL  Jm.  18, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEKIES. 


143 


tr  eorreapandeiit  mwj  infMmitlon  he  cui  taquire  u 
<  the  period  of  tbe  oliurviCiim  b;  Tuious  cburcbee  of 
mFeulTaloftheMilJTitj.  The  WeMem  Cbarch,  ftnm 
.......  s^huodcbntodUie'NaUTityiui  tbe  26th 


NoMiBitATro, — Ihsve  Been  it  more  tinm  once 
stAtad  that  no  coin  of  less  value  than  the  denarius 
wu  struck  bj  our  Engluh  kings  prior  to  the 
Tear  1980 ;  but  in  a  legal  deed  of  the  nindi  je&r 
of-tije  reipi  of  Richard  I.  I  find  "trea  sol,  sex 
den.  et  dao  aitilia."  Was  the  altiliuni  a  coioP 
In  three  differenrCambridge  deeda  of  the  reign 
«f  King  John  the  jundrant  la  mentioned,  and  in  a 
Buckadeed  of  the  B«me  reipi  theoWiw.  Philippe 
Angwte  of  France  (1180-1223)  struck  a  varied 
of  eoina  of  small  Talue.  Did  thay  perhapa  be- 
come cuneut  in  England  in  the  time  of  our  Nor- 
man kin)n  ?  Onus. 

Bisdr,  Beda. 

'Tal^oloqia  Chkonica."— Ib  this  a  work  on 
tucient  general  hiatorj,  &c.,  or  is  it  simply  genea- 
logiealP  Robert  Car;,  the  author,  was  aon  of  Sir 
H.  Carf  of  Cockington  House,  Devcu,  and  had  a 
brother,  Colooel  Tiieodore  Gary,  who  married  in 
1676,  in  Jamaica,  Dorothy  Walt.  I  may  haTe  it  in 
my  poverto  offer  some  Buggeationa  touching  thia 
branch  of  the  Caiy  family  when  m;  query  has 
been  aneweted.  Sp. 


BidKtieoli  S.  Apodeictlcnl  i  S.  CaDonical.  Load.  1677. 
AL  The  authoT  tella  ds,  that  "  tbe  deaiga  of  thji  work 
it  to  Attemuna  tbe  joit  intervil  of  time  b«twe«a  the 
gi«at  epoch  of  tbe  cnation  of  the  world,  and  another  of 
tfae  detttnetion  of  JernsaJem  by  Titus  Vespaaiaa,  in  ordai 
to  the  aHlffoment  of  aacb  parCicnlar  time,  wbeniu  ptr- 
"  " "  "jl  ttdr  —' ""■ 


*sr 


ilil  had  tbdr  existence."] 

The  Fuho. — Thia  inatrument  made  ita  fiist 

ipeanace  in  London  at  Covent  Garden  Theatre 


Mut  1730.  It  eaoaed  considerable  eeneation. 
An  acconnt  appeared  in  some  work  of  the  time. 
Can  any  comMpoudent  oblige  me  with  a  referenee 
to  the  details  ?  Jakes  Quabbi. 

£1.  Hill  Street,  Fecliham,  S.E. 

[In  England  the  invention  of  the  pianoforte  is  claimed 
In  Fatber  Wood,  in  English  monk  at  Rome,  nho  mauii- 
-fcetored  one  in  1711,  and  sold  it  to  Samuel  Ciiap,  Esq., 
"tike  author  of  FirsFtdro,  from  whom  it  waa  purchased  br 
FMice  GreeiUe,  Esq.  The  earliest  public  notice  of  this 
BMical  instrument  was  at  Coveot  Garden  Theatre  on 
Mar  16,  17R7.  See  a  oopv  of  the  play-bill  in  "  N.  &  U." 
S"S.L209.] 

Fbiht-sbalbbs'  CATAioanze. — Will  some  cour- 

.teous  connoiuenr  kindly  send  me  the  addressee  of 

a  few  dealers  in  old  prints  who  iasue  catalogues  F 

J.  L.  Cbbebt. 

HaTeloch  Plaoe,  Hanley. 

[I.  John  Stmson,  16,  King's  Place,  King's  Boad 
abttoea.  2.  A.  Niiibet*,  5,  Green  Street,  Leleealer  Square 
t.  Jahn  Camden  Uotten,  74,  75,  FiccadiUy.] 

BooD  SoBBBHs  IN  StrPFOLi  Ghdrches.— Can 
layot  yoDi  readers  add  to  the  following  list 


of  churches  in  Suffolk  that  contain  punted 
lood  screens,  oi  painted  panels  of  any  land  ?  I 
know  of  Southwold,  Eye,  UETord,  Yaxley,  Den- 
ton, Denham,  Saisston,  Blundastoo,  Westball, 
Bramfield,  Badwell  Ash.  A  description  of  any 
except  Southwold  and  Yaxley  would  be  most  ac- 
ceptable. I  believe  the  screens  or  panels  at  Sapia- 
ton  and  Badwell  Ash  are  very  cunous. 

W.  Mabsh. 

7,  Bed  Lion  Square. 

BsADir  Slsbp.— 1  was  told  the  other  day  that 
this  appellation  waa  given  to  all  the  sleep  which 
viedte  us  before  midaisht.  Is  this  its  common 
dedgnation  elsewhere  tnan  Jn  Lancsahire  ? 

M.  D. 

JxRBKT  Tatlob. — Ato  there  any  peraona  of 

e  name  of  Taylor,  at  present  living,  who  are 
lineally  deeeended  from  the  great  divine  P  There 
was  a  family  of  this  name  at  Carmarthen,  sup- 
posed to  be  lineal  descendants,  some  of  whom 
mairied  into  the  family  of  Money  of  Waltham- 
Rtow,  who  are  said  to  l>e  descendants  of  the 
Moneys,  a  very  old  family  in  Norfolk  at  Wells- 
on-the-Ses,  whose  name  in  the  eleventh  and 
twelfth  centuries  waa  Le  Money.  Robert  Money 
married  Sarah  Taylor  in  1724,  and  ahe  is  eupposed. 
to  be  one  of  the  Taylors  of  Carmarthen,  lineal 
descendants  of  Jeremy  Taylor.  la  there  any  book 
or  manuscript  in  which  such  coimectipn  could  be 
traced  and  veriHed  P  J< 

"Thb  SBVBJf  WoNBEBS  OF  Waibs"  is  an  old 
saying  in  the  Principality,  and  is  one  that  was  a 
honsefaold  word  long  before  Stephenson's  Tubular 
Bridge,  or  even  Telford's  Suspeneiou  Bridge  over 
tbe  Menai,  were  thought  of.  These  wonders  all 
relate  to  North  Wales,  and  are  as  follows:— The 
mountain  of  Snowdon,  Overton  cbnrchynrd,  bells 
of  Grmford  church,  Llangollen  bridge,  Wrexham 
steeple  (qu.  tower),  Pyitjl  Rbwadr  waterfall,  and 
St.  Winifred's welL  CanaoyTeadersof  "N.&Q." 
tell  when  the  sajing  originated,  and  wb^  (some 
of)  these  places  were  deemed  more  especial  won- 
ders tban  other  Welsh  attractions  or  novellies  P 
A.K. 

Oswastrr. 

[SeB"S.&Q.'M"'3.i511.] 


(l"  S.  vii.  6C.) 
The  query  of  N.  admits  of  an  immediate  reply 
There  is  no  satisfactory  evidence  in  proof  of  the 
allegation  in  my  father's  Aaivbiographi/  that  his 
father  was  a  "  lineal  descendant  of  tbe  Haydona  of 
Cadbay."  Two  sUtements  of  tbe  alleged  descent 
have  indeed  been  mode  by  different  members  of 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


t4*8.V«.  F«.lB,'n. 


Mr.  HBjdoo's  family,  but  tier  are  mutnally 
ioconBisteiil,  tkod  U,  lewt  one  of  them  is  opposed 
to  fncts  which  a  careful  investisiitioii  into  tbo 
pedigree  of  the  Haydona  of  Woodbury  and  Cad- 
Wj  Aas  recenlly  brought  to  my  notice. 

Tho  more  precise  of  these  two  etatements  is, 
tbat  the  paternal  great-grand  father  of  the  punter 
was  "in  poasewion  of  the  Cadhay  estate.''  The 
more  vague,  that  the  faUier  of  the  painter  was  a 
descendant  of  a  vounger  brother  of  the  Cadhay 
Haydon  who  "  ruined  the  family."  The  former 
depends  solsly  upon  the  oral  testimonr,  often  re- 
peated, of  one  of  the  siatets  of  my  father's  pa< 
teraal  grandfather,  Robert  Haydoo,  which  was 
committed  to  writing  about  fifty  yeara  unce  by 
Iier  niece :  the  latter,  upon  the  oral  testimony  of 
nr  paternal  grandfatber,  Benjamin  Haydon. 

Now,  it  will  be  easy  to  show  that  Robert 
Haydon,  who  was  bom  in  1714,  could  not  have 
been  a  legitimate  son  of  the  last  Haydon  of 
CadhftT,  nor  a  son— legitimate  or  illegitimate— of 
any  of  hu  predecessors. 


Gideon   Haydon,   the   last  of  his  family  whc 

Esessed  Cadhay,  was  the  eldest  son  of  Gideon 
ydon,  junior,  of  Cadhay,  and  Alice  his  wife. 


bora  between  March  12,  lflB6-fl— at 
which  dati)  there  was  no  issne  of  the  mar- 
riage of  bis  parents  —  and  Oct  6,  1006,  when 
he  was  baptised  at  Ottery  St.  Harr.  He  manied 
Ann,  the  widow  of  Thomas  IlanDury,  merchant 
of  London,  one  of  the  brother!  of  John  Han- 
burr,  Bnq.,  of  Woodford,  Co.  Devon ;  the  was  one 
of  toe  daughters  of  John  Fawecett  of  Reaconsfield, 
CO.  Bucks,  gentleman.  The  marriage  took  place 
on  October  30, 172:t,  nine  yean  after  the  birth  of 
Robert  Haydon,  There  is  not  only  no  OTidence 
of  an  earlier  marrisf^,  but  it  is  nearly  certain  that 
this  Gideon  Haydon  left  no  legitimate  issue  at  his 
death  in  February,  1748-9,  while  RobertHaydon 
survived  faim  by  more  than  fonr-and-twen^ 
years,  and  Robert  Haydon's  elder  brother,  John, 
by  more  than  thirty.  Neither  of  them  then  could 
have  been  a  legitimate  son  of  the  Inst  Haydon  of 
Cadhay;  and  as  it  is  very  unlikely  that  aboy  under 
nineteen  years  of  age  should  have  two  children, 
it  is  very  unlikely  that  Robert  and  John  Haydon 
ahould  have  been  hie  natural  sons. 

The  last  Haydon  but  one  who  possessed  Cad- 
hay died  in  March  1706-7,*  seven  years  before 
the  birth  of  Robert  Havdon.  His  immediate  pre- 
decessors died  in  1702-3  and  in  1663-4. 

These  facts,  which  rest  upon  the  most  satis- 
factory evidence,  appear  to  me  to  dispose  of  the 
more  precise  of  the  two  versions  of  the  Cadhay 
story.  I  mav,  however,  add  that  the  fact  that 
Robert  Haydon  moat  probably  lost  his  father 
when  he  was  about  nine  or  ten  yeara  of  age — that 
is,  in  1723  or  1724— is  another  argument  against 
IdentiBcation  of  that  father  with  any  of  the 
*^  ~*  fi-iu—      Q^   auspidous   circum-  | 


stance  about  this  form  of  the  etory  is  this ;  that  it 
does  not  appear  that  Robert  Haydon  himself  ever 
testified  to  ita  truth.  It  is  unfortunate  that  the 
account,  if  true,  ahould  depend  eutirely  upon  the 
testimony  of  persona  belonging  to  the  more  in- 
accurate of  toe  two  sexes.  This  account  of  the 
descent  of  Mr,  Haydon's  family  has  found  ita  way 
into  print  more  than  once,  the  most  circumstan* 
tialformofit  being  that  in  the  lUudraled  ZoHdam 
A'ewj  of  July  4,  1846.  It  occurs  also  in  th» 
Ex^tUr  Flying  Post  of  August  M,  1848. 

The  second  veiuon  of  the  Cadhay  story,  being' 
more  vaguely  stated  than  that  which  has  been 
just  dealt  with,  is  less  easilv  brought  to  the  teat 
of  facts  and  dates.  Who  tte  particular  Cadhay 
Haydon  was  who  "ruined  the  family,"  it  would 
be  extremely  difficult  to  determine.  The  ruin  of 
a  family  of  "great  estate,"  as  the  Baydena  of 
Cadhay  were,  is,  or  used  to  be,  a  gradual  procMS, 
needing  the  sustained  efforts  of  many  generations 
for  its  perfect  accomplish menL  But  if  any  on* 
Cadhay  Haydon,  rather  than  any  other,  is  to  be 
selected  as  the  one  who  brought  about  the  sale  of 
the  proper^,  it  ie  certainly  the  Gideon  who  died 
inf  1702-3.  In  1708  a  private  Act  of  Parliament 
(7  &  8  Anne,  No.  64)  was  obtained,  under  which 
eeveral  of  his  estates  were  sold  for  the  payment  of 
his  debts,  which  amounted  to  about  2O,00OJ,  I 
can,  however,  find  no  evidence  that  either  of 
his  younger  brothers — William,  who  died  in 
1722,  and  John^ver  had  a  eon  or  grandson 
Robert  The  former  was  twice  married,  the  firat 
time  to  a  lady  whose  Christian  name  was  Borothy, 
by  whom  he  appears  to  have  had  one  daughter 
Dorothy,  who  married  Nicholas  Fry  at  Ottery  St 
Maiy  on  July  6, 1704.  She  was  a  widow  before 
April,  1714  William  Haydon  married  hia  SBomd 
wife,  Frances  Putt,  of  Ottery  St  Mary,  vridow,  in 
1695,  when  he  was  in  hia  fifty-third  vear,  I  can- 
not ^nd  evidence  of  any  issue  by  this  marriage. 
Hia  brother  John  Haydon,  who  was  a  woollen- 
draper,  had  a  vrife  and  a  daughter  Mary,  and  a  son 
living  in  April  1714.  He  was  very  probably 
idenLcol  with  the  John  Haydon  of  Woodbury 
buried  there  in  August  1724^  and  with  the 
"  uncle "  of  that  name,  who  is  mentioned  «• 
deceased  iu  the  will  of  the  last  Qideon  of  Cadhay, 
and  to  whoM  son  John  and  daughter  Mary  cer- 
tain bequests  are  made  by  their  "coufln."  Wil- 
liam Haydon  sometimes  lived  at  Cndhay  during 
the  minority  of  the  last  Gideon,  John  lived  with 
his  brother  Gideon  for  about  five  yean,  appa- 
rently at  Cadhar,  after  leaving  London  in  1870. 
There  remain  tne  younger  brothers,  Thomas  and 
Robert,  of  the  Gideon  of  Cadhay,  who  died  ia 
1706-7,  and  the  younger  brother  Thomas  of  the 
last  Gideon  of  Cadhay.  The  latter  is  out  of  tho 
question,  for  he  was  not  bom  until  1703.  With 
regard  to  the  two  former,  Thomas  was  baptised 
on  January  34,  1071-3,  and  Robert  must  have 


4*3.  TIL  Fed.  18,  ■71.1 


KOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


been  upwftTdi  of  niteea  jeara  of  age  on  Xaj  12, 
1680,  for  his  u&me  appears  !□  the  book  of  the  rate 
levied  at  that  date  in  Ottery  St.  Mary  for  the 
"  reductjon  of  Ireland."  I  bare  not  succeeded  ia 
tradng  theee  two  brothers  later  than  March  12, 
1686-6.  I  ebould  be  very  slad  to  obtun  further 
information  about  them  or  their  progeny. 

I  luaj  add  that  Robert  Hajdon,  m^  great- 
giandfather,  waa  far  mauj  yeara  the  parwh  clerk 
of  Charles  Cburcb,  Flymoiith.  He  v/ob  also  a 
bookseller  and  printer,  and  is  eaid  to  bare  intrO' 
duced  the  first  printiogpreas  into  Plymouth.  His 
elder  brother  John  wna  pariah  clerk  of  St.  James's 
Church,  Bristol  Robert  Haydon  came,  accord- 
ing to  hiq  only  daughter,  fruoi  Ottery  whea  be 
■wia  nine  years  of  age,  that  U,  in  1723,  and  was 
Mprenticed  to  a  M>.  Savery — probably  Waltham 
avery,  bora  1692,  died  1778— of  Skde,  near  Ivy 
Bridge,  and  afterwards  acted  as  bis  steward.  He 
began  life,  on  his  own  account,  as  a  ugn-painter. 
The  ruin  of  the  Cadhay  Haydona  ia  tup[Kiaed  to 
hava  been  the  cause  of  bis  early  appreoticeahip, 
«nd  of  that  of  his  brother  John.  Cadhay  was, 
however,  not  sold  uudl  1730,  and  the  Chaoceiy 
■ait  which  led  to  the  Bale  was  not  commeooed 
until  1739. 

Tbeyonngerbrotherof  the  last  Cadhay  IlaydoD, 
Tliomas,  diedinl764.  He  hadtwo  aonj^Thomas, 
•  sorgeon,  who  died  without  iaeue,  and  Josiah 
(of  Crewkerae),  an  attorney.  The  latter  died 
1807,  leaving  two  sona,  William  end  Qeorge,  and 
one  daughter.  The  elder  aon  I  believe  to  be 
identical  with  the  Lieuteuant  Williaia  Haydon  of 
Crewkeme  mentioned  by  Lysona  as  being  the 
repreaentative  of  the  Haydona  of  Cadhay. 

FRtnE  Scott  Hatboit. 
Hwtoiii  Sarie]'. 

WAR  SONOS:  AN  IHPERUL  LEITER. 
f4"'S.vi.383,&c.) 
The  following  song  (or  satire)  ia  translated  from 
the  French.    It  appeared  origmaUy  in  the  Con- 
fidiri  of  Fribourg  (Switzerland),  sndia  probably 
written  by  one  of  the  refuses  nt  preaent  in  that 
hospitable  city.     My  version  Is  tolerably  literal, 
although  it  was  made  hastily  in  a  caf^  of  Lau- 
tanne,  and  when  the  paper  waa  engaged  "tbres 
or  Ibtu  deqi,"  to  use  the  language  of  the  garfon. 
James  Henkt  Dixon, 
"VemiUes,  Jaa.  1, 1871. 
**  Tbia  oonm  hoping  it  will  find  voa 
Well,  •■  I  im  at  my  lonch, 
Wiihing  dovn  a  Germsn  sausage 
Wilb  >  bowl  of  Rhenisb  punch.* 
I  am  in  a  mug  apirtmsat. 
And  mv  flr«  ia  bltiiDc  bright. 
■  How  I  jMty  ll 


Wboai 


tinll 


ItiiDC  bright 


night! 


"  We  have  gaiu'd  lome  noble  trophies, 

Wb  have  haci  some  rare  good  fan, 
Burning  Tillagea  by  liundreds, 

Farms  and  ho me^Ieids— sparing  none. 
Countrv  dimsela  my  bnire  Mldicrs 

Take' foe  wives  witbout  Ibe  aid 
Of  popiali  priest  or  Lutheran  pastor — 

More  to  tell  yoa  I'm  afraid. 
"We've  bombarded  many  a  city. 

Killing  infants  at  their  play. 
What  of  that  i  smaU  moatha  want  feediDg— 

Board  ia  clieap  beneath  the  clay ! 
Stra^burg's  daa  and  huze  cathedral 

Nam  has  somewhat  iTtered  looki>. 
And  we'd  such  aJoUy  bonfira 

With  a  lot  of  fusty  booka  t 
"Think  not  that  we  stop  at  trifles; 

In  a  town  we  found  a  mayor 
Who  naa  loyal  to  his  coantiy. 

So  his  worahip  danc'd  in  air  I 
In  another  place  the  prefect 

And  his  cJerk  wa  dii/n't  hang. 
As 'variety  is  charming,' 

It  with  Vital  was  bangl  bang  I  bang  I 
"France  is  now  in  tribnlalioa  ; 

iiettibutiuQ  follows  wrougi 
She  is  hi  end  iog  jeremiads 

With  De  Osle's  triumphant  song. 
Would  I  were  beside  you  hearing 

Victory's  shouta  from  all  arise ; 
Bert  I've  only  widows'  eursea 

Uix'd  with  orphan  children'a  criea. 
"But  I'maltepy— midDightaoundelh- 
Wbatlathat?  I  know  the  tread. 
Hush, 'tis  Biimatk  t  and  he  tells  me, 
[  you  must  go  to  bed.' 


If 


iocd,  'I 


So  my  letter  I  must  end- 
Dear  Auguals!  aalatitiDQ 
From  your  spouse  and  loving  friend.— W." 


A  SCKIPSIT, 
(4*  S.  vi.  667.) 

These  sheets  wenttont  of  use  (I  think)  in  the 
first  quarter  of  tba  present  century.  In  the  more 
rural  districts  they  may  have  continued  later. 
When  I  waa  at  school,  1816-26,  we  used  sheets 
with  elaborate  flourishiogs — birds,  pen^  and  such 
like. 

A  few  years  sinne  the  old  stoclf  of  a  stetionet 
canie  into  my  hands,  and  amongst  it  were  some  of 
these  sheeta,  new  and  clean,  which  I  preserved,  all 
coloured  except  one.  I  have  the  following  (a  few 
duplicates) :  — 

Bath  aod  Boat. 

Meayring  the  Temple.   (Ezekiel.) 
Philip  baptizing  the  Ennocb. 
The  Good  SamariUn. 
Joahua's  Command. 
John  preaching  in  the  Wilderness. 
The  Seven  Wonders  of  the  World. 

King  William  lit.  (-»(■». llr> 

Paor's  Shipwreck.  . i C) *.  J y  I L 

(All  the  above  published  by  W.  Belch,  Bridge  Sticli, 
Union  Street,  Borough.) 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


(4*S.VII.  F«B.  IS,? 


Tbe  Lord's  Tnytr  and  Ten  Commi 

If  one  Btrlking  tbe  Bock. 

HudiDg  the  Sick  in  the  Temple. 

<FabUshed  hj  ELLuglaf,  173,  High  Stnet,  Barongh.) 

C^n  and  Abel. 

UTeoTSBmnel.    (Datadt828.) 


The  TUkxu  of  Ez^ieL  (DatM  1824.) 
Bath  and  Bou. 
Lifeofbuo. 
<!(^)eiihiBan. 

(FaUidMd  br  Dtux  &  Mondiy,  TbreadsMdle  Street.) 
■TheCoronaUenorGtortnlV.,  JnljlS,  ISII. 


Bilum  blwdng  lanet. 

LtreoTPbanah.    (Not  oolaond.) 

ChrlM  healing  the  SMt. 

<Fubliabed  by  T.  Fairtmm,  1 10,  UlMriu.} 

Vetivilv  of  Jeaua  Christ. 

(Fubli^ied  b;  W.  Uaam,  ai,  Clerkniwell  Green ) 

With  them  were  a  few  (three  or  four)  with  the 
central  part  fiUed  np,  serTiDg  io  this  state  far 
decortktiona  for  the  cott^eg  of  the  lower  chusee. 
This  change  -would  indicate  a  fslting  off  in  the 
demand  from  schools. 

We  always  called  them  spedmens  or  pieces, 
written  first  on  loose  sheets  (many  were  spoiled 
and  rejected  as  not  good  enoagh)  and  afterwards 
stitched  together  by  the  master  and  taken  home  at 
the  holidays.  I  have  seen  nothing  corresponding 
to  either  of  late  years.  Sam.  Ssiw, 

Andorer. 

I  well  remember  these  Christmas  exhibitions 
of  handwriting;  but  I  never  heard  them  called 

*'  Soripsita,"  but  always  "  Christmaa  pieces."  They 
were  sold  hj  statioDera  for  the  purpose,  and 
usually  contained  a  large  picture  of  the  Nativity 
at  the  top,  though  neither  the  head  nor  tail  pieces, ' 
nor  those  down  the  sides,  were  confined  to  sacred 
snbjeetB.  The  last  I  had  #aB  in  1606,  and  was 
•domed  with  coloured  engraTings  of  national 
horoM  and  costume.  In  scbools,  however,  they 
were  often  superseded  by  hijf  sheets  of  foolscap 
paper  written  upon  lengthwise,  and  often  'orna- 
mented with  flourishing  of  such  figures  as  an  angel, 
a  nran,  an  eagle,  or  a  pen.  After  the  fVeooh 
Bavolutiin]  the  eagle  was  the  great  fovourite, 
and  he  granted  a  tcgotl  inscribed  "Liberty." 

F.  C.  H. 

The  folio  sheets  alluded  to  by  M.  D.  are  still 
in  nse,  and  are  known  as  "Christmas  ^eces." 
Some  years  a^  a  comic  song  was  very  popular, 
of  which  the  burden  was 
"  Would  f  oa  like  to  look  at  tay  Christina)  piece  7  " 
The  kte  Mr.  Herbert  of  Sadler's  Wells,  so 
famed  as  "  that  rascal  Jack,"  used  to  dng  it 
Pressed  as  a  London  chant;  boy.  In  the  enter- 
tainment of  "Amateurs  and  Actors"  the  song 


was  acoanonally  introduced  by  Qeoffi?  MufBneap, 
a  rfiarity-boy,  who  had  becmne  factotuso  to  the 
manager  of  the  "  Theatre  Bnral  Finehley," 

"  Flaise  sh,"  said  OeoflVv,  "  when  I  shovs  Oat  to 
gutaimem,  they  always  giT«  me  ilxpsnoe." 

"Verywdl,"  s^d  the  manaijer,  "HI  follow  t&s  oas^ 
torn  )  bat  what's  tkii,  Otolbj  f  "  (poiating  to  a  bage 
blot). 

"Plaate,  air, /didn't 

my  OkriMmai  pitet  as  oftai  a 


a  gentleman,  tod  shall  loo 
~  1  as  yen  lite  /«■  ih«1«i 

»  at  the  bottom  of  the  folio  o 


Jakbs  Hbitrz  Dix<», 


HEBALDIC. 
(4"*  S.  TiL  12.) 

I.  A  man  marrying  a  widow  not  an  heinas, 
the  daughter  of  one  entitled  to  bear  anus,  would 
impale  her  paternal  arms  only,  although,  in  coa- 
tracting  a  second  marriage,  he  might,  if  so  dis- 
posed (bat  in  ver^  questionable  taste),  impale  the 
arms  of  both  wives.  In  that  event  he  would 
dispose  his  own  coat  on  the  righi  of  the  line  of 
impalement,  and  those  of  his  two  wives,  parted 
per  fesse,  on  the  left — the  upper  portion  of  thie 
SQbdivinon  being  given  to  the  paternal  coat  o£ 
his  former  wife.  In  praetiee  tne  arms  of  the 
first  (or,  if  more  than  two,  preceding  wives)  ar4 
nsualiT  omitted. 

S.  "tba  issue  of  a  gentleman  not  poeaossed  of  a 
coat  of  arms— and  uf  such  there  are  recorded 
examples,  even  in  times  when  heraldry  was  sap- 
posed  to  possese  a  significance — whose  father  had 
married  an  heiress,  would,  I  thinli,  in  the  absence 
of  a  paternal  coat,  be  entitled  to  use  the  plmn 
coat  of  his  maternal, grandfather,  whose  line  had 
merged  in  his  own  person.  No  such  case  could, 
however,  happen  in  actual  practice ;  because  a 
gentleman  marrying  an  heiress,  being  without  a 
coat  of  his  own,  would,  if  of  the  requisite  social 
Btatua,  obtain  a  grant  ot  arms  from  the  Heralds' 
College  on  payment  of  the  custamair  fees,  and  on 
Uiese  he  would  place  the  paternal  arms  of  his 
wife  in  an  "  escutcheon  of  pretence,"  i.  e.  con- 
ttuned  on  a  minute  shield  occupying  the  exact 
centre  of  his  own.  This  is  the  usual  way,  though 
I  believe  it  is  patent  to  the  husband  in  his  option 
to  adopt  either  this  or  the  otdinarj  form  of  im- 
palement Failing  such  grant,  I  presume  it  would 
De  competent  to  the  issue  of  such  marriage  to 
apjily  to  the  College  of  Arms  for  a  coat  with 
which  to  quarter  his  maternal  insignia.  In  any 
case,  as  I  believe,  his  right  to  the  armorial  bear- 
ing of  his  mother's  family  would  not  be  affected 
by  the  circumstance  that  his  father  did  not  pos- 
sess a  coat  of  his  own ;  and  although  it  is  usual 
in  such  cases  to  quarter  both  coats,  it  is  almost 


»8.TII.Fm.  18,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


anperfiwHU  to  add,  that  a  coat  cannot  lie  quar- 
tared  with  l^at  which  does  not  exist.  Until 
withiD  a  comp«ratiTBly  recent  period,  the  hosband 
csnewllj' impaled  the  anna  of  his  wife,  whether  an 
Aaiieas  or  not.  Occau<»iHllj'  a  husband  (faaiiered 
the  arms  of  his  wife,  being  an  heiiesa,  m  which 
«aaewe  «re  told  "be  geoeiaUf  placed  heiama 
tiefbve  big  tnni."  J.  Cbuiz^uiie  Roana. 

1.  In  reply  to  the  first  queiy  of  W.  M.  H.  C, 
aa  to  the  suppoaitioa  of  a  widow  not  an  heireas 
mairying  again,  what  axtae  should  her  second 
husband  impale,  hei  father's  or  ber  former  hns- 
faaud'a  P  I  would  aaj  that  a  femrae  not  ao  heiress 
would,  on  becoming  a  widow,  retain  the  impaled 
anns  of  her  deceased  husband  and  herself  upon  a 
loMom;  but  in  the  event  of  her  manying  a 
aeeond  lime,  she  would  cease  to  bear  her  first 
hnaband's  arms.  But  there  is  an  exception  t« 
ttiis  genetsl  mle,  in  the  case  of  the  femme  being 
ttie  widow  of  a  peer.  Tor  if  she  were  to  marry  a. 
commoner,  she  would  still  continue  to  bear  the 
maa  of  her  former  burimnd  on  a  separate  lozenge ; 
and  on -another  shield,  ber  second  husband  would 
impale  her  paternal  arms — the  two  farming  a 
gronp,  the  lozenge  yielding  precedence.  If,  how- 
«»er,  she  were  to  marn'  a  lecond  peer,  she  would 
not  retain  the  arms  of  her  former  nuaband,  unless 
hit  ranh  had  been  higher  than  that  of  her  second. 
(See  Botttell'B  Berddry,  Hutorical  and  Paptdar, 
•d.  IS64,  chapter  on  "  IfoBhallmg,"  &a.) 

2.  In  regRid  to  the  second  queir,  as  to  an 
"ignoMlia"  marrying  an  heiress,  couJd  the  issue 
beu  the  mother's  arms  in  any  way  ?  I  will  quote 
fe>m  Mr.  J.  'E.  Oossaa'a  Hcm^ook  ef  Heraldry 
(•d.  1869,  p.  156) :  — 

"If  an  %Tiob(lU.that  j»  anewithflntarmanal  bearings, 
wxe  to  toMiTj  Bi  hdivH,  he  could  mike  no  UM  wbat- 
•mr  of  htr  urns :  tot,  hrtviog  no  vaontcheon  of  hia  own, 
ItueTideot  b«  could  not  cbirfe  her  sbidd  of  pretence; 
neither  «oald  Uieir  issue,  tieidg  amble  to  quarter,  be 
10  tieai  their  matemal  east." 


Bat  is  thrae  not  an  exception  to  this,  in  the 
ease  of  the  baron  marrying  an  heiress,  and  having 
iwne  by  her  only  one  daughter,  and  subsequently 
manying  again,  having  a  boo  P  The  latter  would 
be  lieir  to  the  father,  and  the  daughter  to  the 
mother.  The  daughter  would  here  be  entitled  to 
bear  ber  mother's  arms,  and  alao  her  father's  by 
incorporation ;  but  in  the  caae  W.  M.  H.  C.  puts 
(the  father  having  no  amis  to  be  incorporated), 
still,  would  not  the  daughter  he  entitled  to  "bring 
in"  her  mother's  arms  alone  to  the  coat  of  any 
fansband  she  might  marry :  in  such  a  case  cer- 
tainly guniag  an  advantage  over  her  non-armi- 
geroDS  half-brother  P  J,  8.  Udal. 

-     ■         ■  nanb. 


BOOK  OKKAHENTATKai. 

(4'^S.\rLfi67;  vii  III.) 

The  "bookbinder  ii«ar  Leeds  or  Bkipton," t»- 

ferred  to  l^  P.  P.,  was  donbUssa  Edwaris  of 

Haliiax.  Obqrsx  U.  Qbedt. 

27,  King  WOUam  Street,  Stnuid. 

I  bare  a  bdmU  Bible,  pnrcfaBsed  some  twelve 
years  ago  In  Chippenham,  and  then  apparently 
new,  on  the  edgaa  of  which  are  the  names  of  the 
books  in  their  proper  order.  The  edges  are  gilt, 
and  the  names  are  visible  only  when  the  leaves 
are  slanted.  Hic  xi  tssivOs. 

Otte,  W. 


A  manusciipt  folio  volume  in  the  library  of 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  contMning  the  poem 
of  "Generides"  and  Lydgate's  "Siege  of  Thebes 
and  Troy,"  has  its  three  edges  ornamented  with 
armoiial  hearings,  whi^  are  the  same  as  those 
on  the  margins  and  in  the  initial  letters,  and  ap- 
parently belonged  to  some  former  possessors.  The 
date  of  the  MS.  is  about  the  middle  of  the 


somewhat  later— perliaps  the  Kign  of  Hen.  ^ 
My  own  impression  is  that  the  MB.  was  decorated 
in  this  way  for  a  wedding  present,  and  that  tho 
arms  belonged  to  members  of  the  families  so 
united  W  marriage.  There  viat  a  meniage  in  the 
reign  of  Hen.  Vll.  between  two  families  wboaa 
arms  I  have  been  able  to  identify  in  the  book. 

William  Alius  Wbiohi. 

I  have  always  seen  and  beard  Edwards  of  Hali- 
&X  accredited  with  the  production  of  tliose  bodu 
bound  at  the  baginniag  of  this  cantur^  whidi 
have  landscape  sod  other  paintings  aa  tlteu'  edgss. 
That  be  did  produce  some  I  tiiink  there  is  «s 
little  doubt  as  that  tiie  nvns  of  Little  Oidding 
embroidered  coveca  for  Bibles  and  Prajen  in  the 
seventeenth  century ;  but  I  do  not  belie**,  indnfr- 
trioua  as  these  nnna  were,  that  they  were  the 
artificers  of  all  or  even  neariy  all  the  bindinfis  of 
that  character,  and  just  so  Edwards  of  Halifax 
has  been  oveiHiredited  with  work  of  the  kind  now 
in  question,  I  have  bad  in  my  hands  many  of 
these  books,  and  I  think  two  of  every  three  have 
borne  the  following  inscnption: — "Boond  and 
sold  by  Taylor  and  Hessey."  I  have  one  so  iB« 
scribed,  and  have  seen  many  others.  I  have 
occasionally  seen  Edwards's  name  affixed,  and 
others  have  no  name. 

Babil  Mohtasu  PiCEEEiHft. 

The  following  extract  from  a  botdiseller's  cata- 
li^e  amy  interest  F.  M.  B. : — 

"  614.  Roger's  Fotm,  piJDted  by  Benilej,  with  Wood- 
eati  rrom  Dnntiogs  by  Stotbatd,  lilies  aa  India  paper, 
first  edUiw,  I2mo,  boDod  ia  blue  moncoo,  gilt,  with  a 


148 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4«S.VII.  Fbb.18,*;1. 


cfasrmlDg  culonred  Drnirint;  of  Old  Derby  Ilridge  on  the 
gilt«d|[e,b}FEdw(udiorH»Iihx,I2L    1BI3." 

ThU  temptiDg  little  Tolume  wu  offered  for 
rale  bj  Ueasn.  C.  ft  G.  Noble,  812,  Strand,  in 
Cstalogue  XXIII.  1868.  W.  G.  Stoke. 

Elbteh  SnnxniQ  PiEcsa  of  CHAitLBs  L  (4" 
8.  rii.  66.}— There  never  was  kq  English  coin 
cunent  of  exactly  the  worth  of  eleven  ahillingH. 
Early  in  the  reign  of  Charlea  I.  there  were  anmU 
or  ten-ehilliog  pieces  struck,  the  esUni&ted  value 
of  which  was  a  little  above  eleven  shillinga  and 
fourpence.  (Folketi's  TaUgo/fn^fuA  ffuU  Owit, 
p.  8.)  Possiblj,  though  not  very  probably,  these 
ftre  the  coioa  alluded  to.  Would  K  P.  give  the 
words  of  the  will  to  which  he  refers  f  311. 

Dekabius  of  Dbotus,  Senidh  (4*^  8.  viL  96.) 
There  is  no  such  coin  as  the  one  described  bv 
J.  H.  M.  to  be  found  in  either  Kssche,  Eckhel, 
•  or  Cohen.  There  is  none  even  on  which  he  bears 
the  title  of  "  Princeps  Juventutis."  311. 

The  Swah  Sons  op  Pakson  Avery  (4""  S.  vi. 
403;  vii.  20.)  — The  Newbury  mentioned  iu  this 
poem  is  a  coast  town  in  Massachusetts,  about  thirty' 
five  miles  north  of  Boston.  The  voyage  undertaken 
by  Parson  Avery  could  have  been  performed  under 
favourable  circumstances  in  five  or  six  hours,  but 
it  was  Qecessary  to  double  Cape  Aun,  a  headlaod 
projeciiug  into  the  Atlantic  Hbout  ten  miles  be- 
yond the  general  line  of  the  coast  Tlie  scene  of 
the  shipwreck  was  a  mile  or  two  enst  of  this  head- 
land, when  the  voyage  was  about  half  accom- 
Slished.  Marblebead  is  a  seaport  town,  about 
fteen  milee  north  of  Boston,  and  is  so  uamfd 
from  its  rockr  site,  though  its  rocks  are  not  marble 
but  sieoite.  Newbuiyin  Masaachusetts  wasnaoied 
after  Newbury  in  Berkshire,  in  compliment  to  the 
Bev.  Thomas  Parker,  its  first  pastor,  who  had 
been  a  preacher  at  the  latter  place.  Newbem,  in 
North  Carolina,  is  said  to  have  been  named  hy  its 
Swiss  settlers  after  the  capital  of  their  own 
country,  and  is  still  frequently  written  New  Bern, 
the  finfj  t  being  generally  omitted. 

E.  W.  will  find  in  the  Neto  EiMland  Gaualoffical 
Skeionatyby  Jitiaea  Savage,  voL  i.,  art.  "Avery," 
some  account  of  Parson  Avery  and  his  family,  and 
in  Joshua  Coffin's  Hidory  of  Seiobiay  the  narra- 
tive that  suggested  the  "  Swan  Song."  These 
works  can  be  consulted  at  the  British  Museum. 
J.  M.  B. 

The  incident  upon  which  this  poem  is  founded 
occurred  in  1636  oS  Cape  Ann,  Alasa.  A  full 
account  of  it  may  be  found  under  the  title  of 
"Antony  Thacher's  Shipwreck"  in  Alexander 
Young's  Chronitiei  of  the  Ftanten  of  Mattachn- 
»dt»,  p.  483. 

Mr.  Avery,  shortly  after  his  arrival  in  this 
ooiintry,  was  invited  to  become  the  pastor  at 


Marblebead,  a  place  between  Cape  Ann  and 
Boston.  He  sailed  from  Ipswich,  the  town  ad- 
joining Newbury,  in  a  pinnace,  which  had  been 
sent  for  him  from  Marbleliead.  On  August  15  the 
vessel  was  lost,  and  out  of  the  twea^- three  per- 
sons on  board  only  two  were  saved — Mr.  Tbacher  ' 
and  his  wife.  They  landed  upon  a  barren  island, 
which  has  dnce  been  known  as  Thacher's  Island ; 
and  the  Rock  of  Avery's  Fall,  mentioned  in  the 
poem,  is  called  "  Averj's  Eock." 

Mr.  Avery  was  couHn  to  Sir.  Thacher.  Gov. 
Winthrop,  in  his  journal,  speaks  of  Mr.  .\very  as 
"  a  minister  in  Wiltshire  [En^.]  a  godly  man."' 
His  baptismal  name  has  been  given  incorrectly  as 
John.  The  early  records  in  Massachusetts  give 
Joseph.  Q.  W.  T. 

New  York. 

"The  Heivdio  of  the  Lr.vd"  (4"'  S.  vii.SS.) 
This  famous  old  song  is  attributed  to  Pearce,  in 
the  collection  called  the  Mutical  Cyclopedia,  by 
James  Wilson,  published  in  1834 ;  but  I  have  na 
doubt  that  it  was  written  by  Charles  Dibdin,  to 
-nhom  I  find  it  assigned  in  the  Book  of  English 
Songt,  published  in  1861.  It  bears  the  character 
of  Uie  many  sea-songs  of  Bibdin.  He  died  in. 
1814,  and  certainly  I  knew  the  soog  several 
years  before  that  date.  I  do  not  know  the  data 
of  Ur.  Richard  Scnifton  Shai-pe's  death ;  but  be- 
sides the  songs  of  his  mentioned  bv  Dr.  Dixon — 
"  Poor  Rose  of  Lucerne,"  publiehett  as  the  "Swba 
Toy  Qirl,"  and  the  two  others— he  was,  I  believe, 
the  author  of  "  The  Minute  Gun  at  Sea,"  which 
was  once  a  great  favourite,  and  which  I  have 
heard  Braham  sing  with  great  sjurit  and  effect. 
The  muMC  was  composed  by  M,  P.  King. 

F.  C.  H. 

The  mu«c  of  this  old  sea-eong  is  by  Shield ; 
may  he  not  have  written  the  words  alao  f  I  may, 
however,  safely  affirm  that  UE^ther  this  song  dot 
the  pastoral  "  Shepherds  I  have  lost  my  love," 
was  written  by  my  father  (the  late  Richard  Scraf- 
ton  Sharpe) :  they  are  both  of  too  old  a  date.  I 
beg  to  thank  Dr.  Dixon  for  his  very  gratiryiog 
noiice  of  my  father's  works.  The  pastoral  to 
which  he  alludes  (he  will  excuse  my  correction) 
is  entitled  "  The  Wreath,"  the  firat  line  being — 
"Shcpherdii,  tell  me,  hava  jou  use  my  Flora  piu  tbii 
way?" 

A  song  on  the  same  model,  "The  Captive  to  bia 
Bird,  was  also  set  to  music  about  the  same  time 
by  Maizingbi,  but  seems  to  be  quite  forgotten^ 
while    "The  Wreath"  has  a  world-wide   fame. 


ElRKSANTON  (4'*  3.  vi.  387.) — la  my  query 
this  place  was  incorrectly  stated  to  be  in  Fumess. 
It  is  in  Cumberland,  between  the  rivoro  Irt  and 
Mite,  about  three  and  a  half  miles  from  the  sea. 


f»S.VILFtn.I8,71.] 


k6tes  and  queries. 


Gnx  (4'*  S.  Tt.  417,  SSI ;  vii.  S7.)— The  gun  at 
Muiboioush  Hill,  ttmp.  Edw.  I.,  was  prolwblr  a 
"  gouoe,  « larp  barrel "  (lee  Giambatid),  and  the 
booped  ordDfmce  migbt  eanlf  take  the  name  at  e 
Uter  date.  Walsitigiiaiii  ditrtinctl/  saja  that  can- 
non was  a  Ficnch  term.  Qjn  is  na<  "  a  snare,' 
'  but  an  eoiniie  of  war ;  it  ia  still  in  use  with  ar> 
tiUet^mim  and  engineers  for  a  sort  of  shears  for 
faoistiDK  guos,  &c. 

MidEHziB  E.  C,  Waicoit,  B.D.,  P.S.A. 

Thb  Didactic  PoitTRr  <yt  Italt  (4*  S.  tS 
414,  537.) — There  are  few  better  authorities  on 
Italian  literature  than  Mb.  Qbeket,  by  whom  mj 
inquiry  as  to  the  earliest  didactic  poem  in  Italian 
vas  answered  in  the  last  Tolume  of  "N.  &  Q." 
p.  S37.  He  assumes  that  the  Aixrha  of  Cecco 
d'Ascoli,  a  contemporatj  of  Dante,  and  the  Sfera 
of  Oregotio  Dati,  who  died  in  1436,  maj  claim 
priority  over  the  Eegola  dapicmtare  Melaranci  of 
Coltenuccio.  But  this  must  depend  upon  the 
character  of  the  works  referred  to.  Strictly  speak- 
ing, anything  which  teaches  in  \et*e  la  a  didactic 
poem ;  but  we  term  is  usually  confined  to  a  poem 
which  teaches  and  illustrates  a  spedSc  subject. 
In  ICnglish  ver^e  we  may  take  as  an  example 
ArmBtiong'i  Art  of  prtiervingffea/th,  one  amongst 
manv.  Is  the  Acerba,  then,  of  this  description  ? 
Tiraboscht  mentions  it  (vol.  v.  lib.  II.  cap.  2,  xviii.) 
as  treating  of  many  matters  fpt'il  argomttUt)  in 
physics,  moral  philosophy,  and  religion,  which 
would  asngn  it  to  a  difietent  category ;  and  the 
^era,  perhaps,  nay  be  classed  as  descriptive 
mote  than  didactic.  I  have  not  at  present  an 
miportnni^  of  examining  either  of  these  works. 
Some  of  your  readers,  who  live  nearer  than  a 
hundred  miles  to  the  British  Museum,  may  be 
more  fortunate,  and  I  shall  be  glad  to  hear  the 
result  Unless  the  poema  in  question  are  showii  to 
h«Btrictlydidactic,CoI]enuccio  will  Btilt  be  entitled 
to  the  distinction  of  having  written  Ihejirit  didae- 
Uepoem  m  Ilaliaa.  W.  M.  T. 

"  Rrs  HOC  TOCABI  DEBET,"  BTa  (4*  S.  Tli.  96.) 

FiJ>  Martial's .^)^ain^  buokiu.  No.G8,lineS], 
ed.  Schneidwin.  W.  A.  B.  C. 

Li  Cakaooik  (4<^  S.  Tii.  34.)  — In  the  last 
edition  of  the  Diclioaan/  of  tfie  Spanuh  Academy, 
Caracol  it  described  as  a  mollusc  of  tbe  uie  of  a 
nut  in  an  orbicular  shell,  open-mouthed,  and  in 
the  form  of  a  half-moon. 

"  CoTORlTX.  Faire  la  atraal,  Moldiers  (0  cut  tb«m- 
idTca  into  a  nnmd  or  ring." 

Does  it  not  mean  retiring  backwards  from  the 
presence  of  royalty,  the  body  being  bent  in  tbe 
form  of  a  half-moon  P         ,  F.  W.  C. 

CUpbsm  Park,S.W. 

Thia  is  a  term  of  horMmanship :  "the  half- 
turn  which  a  horeemim  makes  either  to  the  riffht 
or  left."  (fiaHeff.)    We  may  therefore  infer  tnat 


as  the  noble*  left  the  Duchess  of  Parma,  they 
made  in  token  of  reverencs  alternate  hows  to  tha 
right  and  to  the  left,  walking  backwards  till  they 
reached  the  door.  F.  C.  H. 

"  It's  a  tab  Cbt  to  Loch  Awk  "  (4*  8,  tL 
606;  TO.  42.) — Let  me  refer  tout  correapondeots 
who  have  written  on  this  subject  to  the  Legmd 
of  Monlroee.  The  expression  is  used  by  one  of 
the  Campbells,  when  Captain  Dugald  DaJgettv  is 
in  the  presence  of  the  Marquis  of  Argyll,  ana  ia 
beginmng  to  be  afraid  at  the  danger  to  which  the 
sacred  person  of  au  ambassador  was  likely  to  be 
exposed.  The  phrase  there  is  given  as  "It's  a  far 
cry  to  Lochow.  The  passage  will  he  found  in  the 
twelfth  chapter.  Johs  Picxfors,  lU.A. 

Ballon  Percf,  nur  Tadcwtcr. 

Insbzbs  :  "  Rubhwobtb's  Historical  Col- 
LBCTioNS"  {4'''8.Tii.42.)— I  am  very  doubtful 
whether  the  enterprise  suggested  by  your  corre- 
spondent would  receive  adequate  support.  Some 
years  ago  I  projected  a  series  of  indexes,  and  actu- 
ally completed  (among  others)  the  gieatcr  portion 
of  Bushworth,  but,  though  without  desiie  forpe- 
cunisij  gain,  I  was  unsuccessful  in  the  endea- 
Tour  to  find  a  puhlisher.  "  No  one,"  it  was  said, 
"  would  waste  print  or  paper  over  them ! "  Pub- 
lication by  subaeriptiott,  however,  might  possibly 
answer.  I  should  be  happy  to  complete  my 
work,  which,  I  may  venture  to  say,  is  that  of  an 
experienced  and  expert  hand,  and  divide  the  coat 
of  printing  amon^  as  many  subscribers  os  were 
forthcoming,  provided  thej  were  numeioas  enough 
to  keep  the  price  of  copies  within  reosonaUe 
limits.  Tho.  Satchell. 

H.  U.  Cattotnt,  Charlag  Crou,  W.C. 

Kbyto  "Le  Gbanl  Cteus"  (4""  S.  vi.  387, 
616;  vii.  44.)-S.  W.  T.  will  find  a  key  to  X# 
Grand  Cynu  in  the  first  volume  of  SI.  Victor 
Cou'in's  work  La  Sociiti  fran^aiit  au  xvii'  Siiele, 
vol.  i.  p.  364.  The  first  and  second  volumes  of  the 

Knderous  romance  were  published,  not  in  1660, 
t  in  1649.    "Achevfa  d'imprimer,"  says  the 
oyal  privilege,  "le  7  Janvier  1640." 

OuBiAVB  Mabsok. 
HarreiroiithflHIlL 
Wkavkb's  Abt  (4""  I 
hardly  assume  unknown 
"Wuvs  the  wiTp  and 

The  wlnding-sbeet  of  Edward'*  race." 
Virien,  in  Tennyson's  lA/IU— 

"  pot  forth  the  charm 
paces  and  of  waving  hands," 
and  Scott  tells  us— 

Vh  1  whit  a  (SDgled  mb  we  team 

Whaa  flnt  ire  practlM  to  deceivs  "  i 

but  Shakspeare  supplies  many  allusions  to  the 

weaver's  art,  such  as  in  AITi  Well  that  Endt  Well, 

Act  IV.  Sc.  8,  where  one  of  the  French  lords  say^ 

" ""        '  .....  ingitd  yam ";  ' 


vii.  67.) — Gray  I  can 
R.  P.  Q.— 


The  wet  ^  our  Ule  is  of  e 


ISO 


NOTES  ANI)'  QUERIES.  [4>»  a.  tu.  Fm  vn  rt 


iMotMiofsn  to  it  (HIMm<^  T^AoVL  S&2); 
tod.  aameroiu  iMteaM*-  miffbt  <»eird  jour'  apace, 
1IIII  iillj  if  tbe  spdar  wore  enliatod  in  the  sor- 
nce.  (S«e  Merdumt  of  Venice,  Act  IIL  Ss.  2; 
Troiiut  md  Cr»*mda,  Aot  V.  Sa.  2,  &o.) 

W.  T.  M. 


&9M  iru  80  represented,  holdiii|  im  ■  Ottwn  in 
b»  laft  hand,  in  •  muBkl  ptuatiog  m  Eaton  Chiuch, 
near  Norwich.  She  wu  qneen  of  Lonia  Xli. 
of  Fruce.  She  founded  a  leligiona  order  of  the 
.Aauuneiation  of  the  B.  V.  Hary,  and  took  the 
halnt  of  it  herseUl  bat  died  the  vear  faUowing. 
F.  C.  H. 

"Thb  PRoraoAr  Son"  (4"  8.  to.  560—1 
kare  B  set  of  woodouts  illaatratiiig  the  parable ; 
tbajr  an  black  upon  white,  published  by  M.  Den- 
ton, Ho^iital  Qate,  West  Smithfield,  Laodon,  Jan. 
10, 1795  (I  think  that  daseribwl  bj  J.  T.  F.  a 
copy  of  the  same  work  coloured).  J.  T.  F.  may 
lure  a  n^t  of  it  T.  S.  A. 

CiHKOH  (J"  3.  vii.  68.)— If  the  Italian  word 

appears  to  have  lost  that  meaning  bj  the  begin- 
ning of  the  serenteenth  century ;  for  in  Florio's 
lfn>  World  of  Word!  (Lond.  1611)  it  is  not  so 
ezpluned,  though  other  renderings  are  given 
besides  "any  cannon,"  which  is  the  first  One 
rendering  of  mmut  is  "  tbe  bore  or  concavitie  of  a 
Tuece."  In  Hlnsheu's  Spamih  and  EngUik  Die- 
Mnary  (Lond.  1699)  there  is  no  aUunon  jto  the 
word omt meaning  "an andent piece  (^ordnance." 
Akoit. 

B»ij.  CiRBim  (4"'  S.  tii.  97,  130.)— Allow 
me  to  answer  one  of  my  own  questions.  Benjunin 
Carier  was  the  son  of  Anthony  Carier,  a  learned 
and  devout  preacher.  Benjamin  became  Fellow 
of  C.  C.  0.  Camhndge,  chapiNn  to  James  X.,  and 
Fellow  of  Chelsea  College.  He  joined  tl>e  Church 
of  Itome,  and  went  to  Liige  in  G^ermany.  He 
died  before  midsummer,  1614.  (See  Wood  a  Fatd 
Oxott.  and  Bohn's  Lotendet.)        J.  M.  Cowfbb. 

Uay  not  "R.  C,  QtmL"  be  Richard  Caiew, 
who  translated  Hnarte  and  part  of  Taaso  P 

Qbobo£  M.  Orekh. 

27,  King  WaUam  Street.  Stnmd. 

"  TsB  Adobatiov  OB  THK  Laxb,"  bic.  (4*^  S. 
Ti.  386,  660.)— The  following  inscription,  painted 

1  the  frame  of  this  important  work,  is  tukeo 


Vym.     Ob  tfie  «h  of  May,  in  the  year  14B2, 
theea  pictoMa  weie  oonpleted).    We  stiU  reqisn 


B  EJ-CK,  MAJOH  qVO  NXHO   RBpSrtVl 

Ihcbfit  I  poNDv>qvR  JabanDHi  abte  nKauHCTB 

FllATEn  PBRfKCiT,  JtdOCI  VVD  PRICE  FKBTTS. 

TbbsV  bhXta  Mil  Voe  CoI^LoCAt'  aOta  tVkbI  + 

(The  painter  Hubert  Van  Eyck,  a  greater  was 
never  found,  began,  and  hie  second  hcother  (John) 
completed  the  work,  at  tbe  instance  of  Judocus 


)  prophets  att«l  sibyli. 

1  am  very  gratefnl  to  F.  C.  H.  for  hia  tUiuMo 
trandatioD.  W.  Mauk. 

Clabbitcb  (4*^  S.  vi.'6O0.)  —  I  cannot  give 
L.  B.  0.  any  information  about  William  Clarence, 
nor  do  I  know  if  John,  Bastard  of  Clarence,  mar- 
tied  or  lelt  issue.  HsBumnatrvB. 

Db  BoHBir  (4"  9.  vi.  501 ;  m  24.)-l.  Oa  a 
cap  of  maintenance,  a  lioa  oiowned  (Bontall's 
aeraldry,  plate  Izvi.) 

S.  1  cannot  ascertain. 

3.  I  can  offisr  A.  F.  H.  a  pedigree  of  the  family 
with  full  chronological  details,  if  he  would  like  to 
have  iL  In  two  or  three  g«ieratioQS  Uie  gene- 
alogy is  almoflt  iBeztrioablv  confused,  and  what 
notices  can  be  found  on  the  rolls  eimply  make 
matters  worse.  Does  A.  F.  H.  demre  more  de- 
tailed "  particulars  "  than  are  given  in  such  woiks 
at  Dugdale'a  Barottaget  IS  he  wishes  for  the 
pedigree,  will  he  please  to  let  me  know  P 

HsBMBKIBiraiB. 

MS.  AinoBioaBiPBT  of  toe  Natttbll  Sok 
OP  Kcto  Richabd  ni.  (4*  S.  vi.  667.)— Sir 
Edward  Bering  was  right  Mh.  Tew  will  find 
what  he  inquires  about  set  forth  in  The  Lad  of 
the  riantagen^,  an  interesting  historical  narra- 
tive published  by  Smith  £  Eider  m  1830.  It  was 
by  tbe  ancestor  of  the  present  Earl  of  Wincbilsea 
that  the  "  person "  therein  named  was  emploved 
to  superintend  the  works  at  Eastwell.  Mr.  Tsw 
will  find  some  notes  of  mine  referring  to  Lord 
Lovet  and  to  this  mTSterious  son  of  Richard  IIL 
in  "  N.  &  Q."  for  November  13,  1868,  and  also 
for  January  1,  1869.  Ishall  have  much  pleasure 
in  lending  Mk.  Tiw  the  book  in  question  by  his 
addressing  a  line  to  me.  S.  WiHs. 

HsteMck,  Y«ovll,  SonierMt. 

In  Evans's  Old  BaBadt,  vol.  iv.  p.  31  ed.  1784, 
Mr.  Tew  will  find  appended  to  a  ballad  c^kd 
"  lUchaid  PlantageneC,"  by  Mr.  Hull,  almost  all 
the  authentic  information  extant  as  to  the  object 
of  hia  query.  Eastwell  Pflrk  was  then — thtf  is, 
in  the  reign  of  Henry  VII.— the  property  and 
residence  of  Sir  Edwfud  Movie,  not  Daring,  and 
from  bim  descended  by  an  heiress  to  the  Finches, 
in  whom  it  is  still  vested.  The  Duke  of  Aber- 
com  has  of  late  years  rented  it  from  the  trustMS 
of  tbe  present  Earl  of  Winchilsea,  A  reference 
to  the  Btory  occors  in  a  MS.  pedigree  of  the 
Lofties,  who  were  seated  at  Westwell,  tbe  ad- 
joining parish,  in  tbe  same  rdftn :  one  of  tbem 
IS  said  to  have  come  from  Yorkshire  in  charge  of 
Richard  Plantagenet.  A  Richard  Loftyee  is 
named  in  the  regiatera  as  having  been  buried 
there  in  1660.    He  was  bom  in  1489,  and,  bi>- 


#*avn.Fo.i8,'7i.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES^ 


cording  to  tbe  MS.,  wh  called  after  th»  Uitfg. 
TbB  nama  "Bieliard"  doea  not  again  occur  in 
tfae  familj,  wliich  nas  afterwaida  Beat«d  in  Smeeth 
pBiiBh,  in  the  church  of  which  are  nanv  of  their 
moDumeuta.  See  Haal«d's  &at,  folio,  1790, 
ToL  iiL  p.  293.  Fira  Kichakd. 

Id  the  yoar  1774  waa  published  e  4to  pannphlet 
of  iv.  and  30  pi^es,  with  tfae  folloimig  title, 
"  Siciard  Pianlagenet ;  a  Legendary  Tale.  Now 
first  pabtished  by  Mr.  Hull."  Jt  is  a  poem,  with 
s  dedication  to  Bavid  Ganick,  and  some  account 
of  the  hero,  who  ta  reraeeeutAd  to  have  been  a 
natural  aon  of  Bichard  III.  Johk  Wtuos. 

Shkbrwokt  (4'*  S.  Ti.  602 ;  Yii.  25.)— 
'*ShaTe-wort.   Aster  sea   Ingninalia,  ^c  dicta,   quia 
Bnbana  extus  *dDiitB  pat«it«r    ruppoiat.'' — Skinner 
(Stq>.},  EtrmotegietH  Lhguti  Auflkata.  1671,  mi  aoc. 

Edwasd  Fb&cock. 
The  Block  Bookb  (4<»  S.  ii.  ;iaan'>n .-  vii.  13.) 
I  do  not  propoae  diicussing  the  matter  of  the 
Uock-books,  because  I  bold  tbat  it  raUier  reeta 
with  Mr.  H01.T  to  show,  if  he  can,  tbat  the  re- 
ctired  opinion  is  falae.  At  present  he  fane  net 
done  so,  ea  far  as  I  know.  But  I  would  c&utioit 
your  reedera  that  faia  firat  aesertioD  with  reapect  to 
at  Christopher  was  that  the  date  had  been  tam- 
pered with.  From  tfae  direetoesa  of  the  assertion 
no  one  would  have  dreamt  that  it  waa  made  with- 
out hia  flTer  having  seen  the  print.  Now  he  bnt 
seen  the  print  and  finds  that  snch  a  position  it 
absurd,  be  has  started  the  theory  of  the  print 
being  later^an  the  printing,  or  perhaps  I  abould 
say,  later  than  the  matter  printed,  which  is,  in 
my  opiniofr,  qiute  as  untenable  as  hbfoitneraa- 
aertion.  J.  C.  J. 

Adam  be  Orlbtoh  (4'"  S.  vii.  53.)— Mb.  Henkt 
F.  Holt's  very  powtivo  denij  of  Adam  de  Orle- 
ton'a  misdemeanours  miut  be  founded  upon  sources 
of  informa^a  not  commonly  known  to  the 
readwaof  history;  andthereforu,  ae  onedb^etber 
«:-t„_=..>j  ;„  .i|a  HuWeot,"  he  will,  I  am  sure, 
la  to  direct  me  to  them. 

EDMrsB  Tew,  M.A. 
PatdiinK  Recloiy,  Arandel. 

S72, 486 ;  vii.  41.)— The  execution  of  John  Tlwwlia 
at  Manchester  has  been  incidentally  named  in  con- 
nection with  this  subject  Br.  Neale  is,  I  believe, 
m  error  as  to  the  place  where  this  martyr  died. 
Challoner  gives  an  account  of  his  death  on  the 
day  named,  but  at  Lancaster;  and  I  understand 
from  Mr.  Bone,  who  fans  a  MS,  copy  of  tfae  ballad 
la  wkieh  Br.  Neale  r^en,  that  it  asreea  with 
Cballoner's  aceount  in  this  respect.  Tfaewlia  is 
not  the  onlv  one  executed  at  Lancaster  whose 
snvder  baa  Men  attribtited  to  Absebeater,  aa  may 
be  seen  by  reference  to  a  paper  contributed  to  the 
StUqtuay  (vol.  x.)  by  the  present  writer. 
In  1865  appeared — 


"  O  HoUw,  Dsu  JwMtkmt  Tbs  Oia  Hymn,  ila 
Origin  and  Genealogy.  Edited  by  William  C  Piim^" 
NewTorli.    8TO,pp-92,— 

which  b  thus  nodeed  in  Triibner's  Xifsmty  Ac0nf 


(i.» 


J  thi<  win  be  an  accept- 

Oavid  MotionVventan  of 

the  well-knawn  bvme,  with  variona  mors  nadem  and  enr- 
rent  versions ;  and  in  tfae  Appendix  the  hymn  of  QildS' 
beit,  and  an  extract  from  the  hymn  of  Bernard  de 
Clngny." 

William  E."A,  Axon. 

Joynson  Street,  Strangeways. 

DR.JoHHSOB'9WAiCH(4*S;vi.276,465[  viL 

56.) — In  answer  to  your  correepoDdent  on  the 

above  aubject,  in  Boswell'sZi/tf  0/ JoAnton,  vol.  iL 

p.  35, 1  find  the  following : — 

"At  tbis  time  I  observed  upon  the  dial-plate  of  his 
watch*  a  short  Greek  inecription,  taken  from  the  New 
Testament-  N6J  yip  IpX"™,  being  the  first  worda  of  our 
Savioor's  solemn  admonition  lo  the  improvement  of  that 
time  which  is  allowed  ni  to  prepare  for  eternity  :  'The 
nigbt  Cometh  when  no  man  can  work.'    He  some  time 


aftenrards  tsid  ai 
n  lt»  re 


a  dIal-pUti  . 
1,  be  said,  'It  might  di 


T  wdl  a 


I  adied 


"interested  L 
to  far  oblige  m 


have  It 

upon  hia  watch  which  'be  canie*  about  with  liim,  and 
which  ia  oflen  looked  at  by  others,  might  be  cenmied  as 
ostentatioiis.' " 

Mr.  Steevens  is  now  possessed  of  the  dial-plata 
inscribed  as  above.  Chables  Hditoh. 

Kottingham. 

CoMvrnAL  SoNOB  (4*  S.  vi.  patam:  vii.  68.) 
One  of  the  beet  I  ever  heard  was  produced  at  tha 
Adelphi  Theatre  about  forty  years  ago.  The 
music  was  composed  by  Marschner  the  German ; 
the  words  I  fo^^t,  but  the  idea  was  drinkinf^  to 
the  four  seasons.  Can  Mb.  Bizoh  help  me  to  tfae 
words  P  James  Oilbebi. 

51,  Hill  Street,  Feckham,  S.E. 

Post  FBOPHECiEa  (4"'  S.  vi.  370,  396,  488;  vii. 
43.)— The  lines,  or  string  of  prophecies  alluded  to 
by  L.  C.  H.,  were  in  French,  in  which  language  I 
first  saw  them,  I  b^ere,  in  1848.  They  nu 
thus:— 

Je  ne  vondreia  pas  ^tra  roi  en  1848. 

Je  ne  voadraia  paa-etre  pr^Ueea  1M9. 

Je  ne  vondrais  pas  £tre  soldat  en  1S50. 


a(/i* 


linw)  1861. 

Of  the  laat  date,  I  am  not  soro :  but  the  whole 
thing  was  conspicuousljr  worthless  aa  a  projphecy, 
and  clumsy  aa  a  fabriealion.  F.  0.  H. 

I  copied  from-  a  nswepqiet  (I  tbinli  in  1848, 
from  a  local  one  in  TaimtoD,  where  I  then  resided) 
tfae  following; — 


*  9ir  John  Hawkins  says,  that  661  watch  wu  the 
first  Johnson  ever  poswated.  It  was  ntada  f«r  him  by 
Madge  and.  Dntton  in  I76t.  They  wen  oelebiated 
watebmahen  of  tbs  last  emtnry,  and  their  shop,  situated 
at  tl^  left  comer  of  Hind  Coitrt,  waa  tin  last  In  Flee*'  ^ 
Street  to  nnderM  the  sweepiag  ordeal  of  m 
which  it  (Scsped  up  to  the  year  1850.— Ed. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[<"  S.  VIL  Fib.  18.  71. 


*  Tba  foDovIng  prophtcj  hM  long  bnn  carrait  in  Gir- 

"I  would  not  be  ■  kioE  in  1848. 
I  would  not  be  *  aoldler  ia  1849. 
1  would  Dot  be  >  graveniigger  in  1850. 
But  I  would  be  wbalever  70a  please  in  1851." 
Did  »nir  of  jour  readers  ever  meot  with  the 
followingP    I  copy  it  from  the  Ometlry  Berald  at 
1821:— 

"  Fnnce  respected. 
Spun  infecled, 
Sweden  neglected, 
Pni»si«  dpJMled. 
U  iMhief  prqj  ecled, 
Turlier  detected. 
Greece  unprotected, 
Kuasla  luspected, 
Mediation  rejected. 
Auetrie  coaneeted. 
Iial^  dluSbcted, 
England  expected 
To  »e  all  corrected." 

A.E. 
DouK  OK  Dtjk  (4''  S.  ti.  GOO ;  vii.  22.)— All 
the  stages  01  post  towns  from  Bartford  to  Dover 
durioc;  the  Roman  dominatiou  had  IMir  as  a  pre- 
fix, ttus; — DuTobreTia  (Rochester*),  Diuolenum 
(Milton  next  Sittinghoume),  DuroTemumt  (Can- 
terbury }).  The  prefix  being  the  Celtic  word  for 
water.  A.  J.  DcifKIM. 

44,  BessboroDgb  Garden),  S.  BelgriTia. 

Fakilt  0?  Jbhbottk  (4'"  S,  viL  66.)— Mb. 
Chubch  is  douhtless  aware  that  the  pedigree  of 
Jennour  of  Essex  is  given  in  the  Harleisn  MS. 
No.  1137  (in  the  British  Museum),  which  con- 
tBiDS  the  Visitation  of  Essex  m  1J35S. 

H.  Jkhhbk-Fusi,  Jvhb. 

"  God  madb  Maw,"  etc.  (i"  S.  vi.  346,  426 
487  J  Tii.  41.) — In  reply  to  your  correspondent 
F.  S,  I  would  refer  him  to  Tie  Lotudate  Maga- 
Bme,  vol.  i.  p.  612.  (A.  Foster,  Eirkby  Lonsdale, 
1820),  for  a  few  remarks  on  the  lines  in  question. 
As  thia  magazine  is  now  very  scarce,  perhaps  you 
will  kindly  allow  space  for  a  short  quotation  from 
an  article  on  "  Bustic  Poets." 

«  Jobn  OMland  waa  on  Inhabituit  ot  Oosthwaite,  and 
■  member  of  the  Sodety  of  Friends.  Ha  existed  aboat 
the  beginning  of  the  lost  centuiy.  Hie  propensitj  to 
tiiffming  waa  such,  that  many  of  bis  rhi/aa,  is  Ihe^  are 
piOTlnciany  called,  are  still  repented  by  Ibe  older  mba- 
Mtanta  of  the  nelghbOHrbood.  Tbe  smartest  of  John's 
rAjwK  was  made  on  the  occasion  of  hit  beiDg^nt  to 
ttiiMe  (as  It  Is  proptrly  termed  in  the  provlDdal  dialect) 
by  a  lawyer  for  some  debt  which  he  bad  iacnrred  at 


*  In  tbe  SaxoD.  period  DorobreTis  was  cbinged  to 
Be  (river)  CsArntR  (castle),  the  Qiitlt  hf  Ihe  Rhtr. 

t  Tbe  change  from  Daroreranm  was  to  its  pre- Roman 
name,  lA*  (%  of  llu  Gntii.  even  as  Paris  returned  from 
its  Boman  appellation  of  Lntetia  to  the  Ci^  nftie  Paritii. 

X  WhcmlwasasehoalboyUie  translation  oftbis  name 
was.  In  the  Eton  Latin  Grammar,  given  as  "  Dover."  I 
do  not  know  whether  this  cnrioni  error  Is  still  per^ 


"God  mead  men. 
And  men  mead  money ; 
God  mead  bees, 

An'  bees  mead  honq' ; 
But  tbe  D— I  mead  lawyers  an'^tomies, 
Andpleao'd'emat  U'atonandDotan  i' Fomess."  * 
jr.  P.  MOBRIS. 

IT  Sutton  Street,  LiverpooL 

Marihb  Robs  (4'"  S.  vi.  436,  484;  vii.  46.)— 
In-default  of  a  very  minute  investigation  of  the 
Fleetwood  rose,  1  possibly  may  have  ascribed  to 
it  a  vrrong  apeci  Gc  name  in  that  of  epinotUtiTna, 
Yet,  with  all  deference  to  A  MuBiTBiAir,  I  think 
I  have  not  done  so;  which  opinion,  I  venture  to 
imagine, is streogthened by  ceitainevidence  I  hete 
bejr  permiflrion  to  adduce. 

H.  C.  Watson,  in  The  New  SUanut/  Guide,  p. 
256,  says  fromhia  own  personal  knowledge  "  that 
Mota  tpinoeitnma  grows  plentifully  on  Uie  sand- 
hills on  the  Cheshire  coast."  And  T.  B.  Hall,  in 
the  Flora  of  lAverpool,  atates  "  that  the  Eoia 
tplnosiaeima  ffrowa  abundantly  on  the  sand-hilla 
both  on  the  Lancashire  and  Cheshire  shores  of  the 
Mersey."  I  have  seen  the  plant  growing  in  the 
situations  named  above,  and  always  considered  it 
to  be  identical  with  the  one  that  grows  in  such 

5 refusion  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Fleetwood.  Sir 
,  E.  Smith,  in  his  description  of  Jtoea  rubeBa,  in 
Sowetby'a  Engtith  Botany,  says  "that  it  is  well 
distinguished  from  if.  tpinoiimma  by  its  eqaal 
prickles  and  oblong  (not  round)  crimson  penduloua 
fruit."  The  same  author's  description  of  the  JR. 
epinoeieeima  is,  "  that  its  fruit  is  erect,  ffoftular, 
quite  smootA,  of  a  dork-red  purple  colour,  chang- 
ing when  ripe  to  blaek." 

In  reply  to  a  query  of  mine  on  the  subject,  I 
have  a  letter  before  me  from  a  lady  who  WWO 
redded  at  Fleetwood  (and  who  knew  well  the 
beautiful  little  rose  in  question),  in  which  aha 
says  "  that  tbe  rose  had  creamy  white  petals,  and 
that  its  hip,  or  fruit,  when  ripe  is  quiie  hlack  and 
round,  scarcely  distinguishable  from  a  lai^e  black 
currant,''  I  shall  have  pleasure  in  forwarding 
Mk.  Edwik  Lbes  a  specimen  of  the  plant  when  it 
is  in  flower.  Jakss  Pbabson. 

Uilntow,  near  Rochdate. 


SaUttUhtitaui. 
NOTES  oa  BOOKS,  ETC. 

S«iipirio  dt  pTofundU  ;  Ui»g  tht  Sequel  to  Oie  Omftttknit 
of  an  EagliA  Opium  Riltr,  and  other  MUc^laneota 
tFrUiugi.  Bf  Thomas  de  Qulncey.  (A.  A  C.  Black.) 
Tbe  admirer*  of  that  profound  and  original  thinker, 

Thomas  de  Qolnoey,  ought  to  be  verygrslafnl  to  Messia. 


*  Tltventon  and  Daltoa  in  FomaML 


xJgTc 


*»8.TILFbd.  IB,': 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


A.  &  C  BUck  for  thii  aopplemental  Toluma  of  bia  writ- 
iagi,  wbicb  fomu  tbe  KTenteenth  of  iheir  colleettd  edi- 
tioD.  ]t  cont>]DB,  u  far  u  ibe  publtebera  ars  aware,  Ibe 
Tonalndei  of  bia  aeattered  wriUnm — alaive  portion  being 
Bcqnlrcd  tmm  the  onKlnsl  pnbliihen,  Meun.  Uoec  ji 
Son,  and  which  bad  Ilie  benefit  of  the  aathor'a  revinon. 
"He  Tcmalnder,  indading  the  "  Notea  from  the  Pocket- 
book  of  an  Eogliah  Opinm  Eater,"  and  tbe  "Hiitorico- 
Critical  InqDiry  into  the  Origin  of  the  fioaicrneiani  and 
FreentaKnu,"  have  been  npiiuled  from  the  old  /xnuAn 
Jlfinunir,  where  ther  originsIlT  appeared  aide  hy  aide 
with  tbe  deliehtfnl  Enaya  by  Elia,  In  reprinting  tbia 
latter  paper,  Hasan.  Blaclt  have  done  good  aervlce  to 


We  ha™  here,  in  75b  Farhma  of  Nigtl,  Sir  W/lMr'» 
maaterij  portrait  of  the  Britiah  Salomon,  and  hia  graphic 
ikelchea  of  Aiaatian  life  in  Whitefrian ;  and  the  volume. 
like  its  predeMaaora,  la  made  mora  tiartu  by  Glossary  and 

Dtbrttt't  Uluitrattd  Ttotat  of  Ginnnou  md  the  Judicial 

Bauk,  1871.     CmpUrd  and  tdittit  by  Robert  Henrv 

Hail.    fcrxma/fy  raiitd  bg  lit  Xtmbcrl  of  Parlm- 

WUMI  and  lAt  Judga.    (Dean  A  Son.) 

Of  tbia  well-timed  volume  (which   Is  marked  by  a 

pecaliarilT  which  deserves  notice,  namelv,  engravings  of 

tbe  arms  bame  hy  tbe  counties,  cities,  and  boroughs  le- 

torning  Hembera  to  Parliament),  it  may  sofllce  to  say 

that  it  is  in  sverr  respect  a  fitting  aa  it  la  almoat  an 

indiapensable  cnrnpanlon  to  DtbriU't  Pttragt  and  Dt- 

Iretfs  SaraaU^  axd  Sitighlagt,  lately  noticed  by  us 

with  deaerred  commendation. 

TU  EUtory  of  Hie  Parochial  Chaptliy  of  Gonmirnh,  in 
A*  Comn^ofLamcaiUr.     Bg  Henrj-  fiahwick,  F.H.S. 


of  Ifae  pari&  of  Kirkbam,  ia  Ainoaudemess,  and  included 
Qtt  tAwnahips  of  tioosnargh,  Whittlngbam,  and  Sewa- 
ham,  haa  been  so  fortunate  aa  to  find  two  gentlemen  who 
baTS  taken  such  interest  in  its  history  and  the  taialorv  of 
tbefkmiliea  connected  with  It,  as  to  devote  considersble 
time  and  labour  to  tbe  coilection  of  materials  for  a  work 
npoo  the  aabJBCt.  The  dntof  these  ia  Mr.RichardCook- 
BDO,  ■  realdeut  there,  who  baviug  been  prevented  from 
eviring  into  eSbct  bis  intention  to  publiab  the  result  of 
his  laboors,  tcit  liberally  communicated  them  to  Major 
Fishwiek,  who  first  visited  Goosnargh  in  search  of  gene- 
alogical infbrmation  some  years  aince.  The  result  ia  a 
TidaiiM  very  creditable  to  the  Induatry  and  intelligence  of 
the  two  gentlemen  in  question — one  of  oonaideTable  in- 
terest to  all  Lancashire  antiquaries,  and  of  course  of 
eapedal  Interest  to  all  who  are  at  all  connected  with  the 
diqieliy  of  Goosnargh. 

Hkw  .Dutch  PeriODiCAI~— Under  the  tille  of  Ome 
£«w  ("  Out  Century"},  a  new  fortnightly  journal  haa 
been  started  at  Amsterdam  onder  the  ediloiahlp  of  Hr. 
H.  Tiedenian,  a  gentleman  to  whom  the  readen  of 
■N.  ft  Q."  have  been  n^jaently  Indebted.  In  addition 
to  tBiSMUaneiHU,  hjatorlcal,  bi^raphleal,  and  political 
wtiela^  It  ii  proposed  thateaeh  nambersboold  coataln  : 
a  Design  poulieal  rariew  (on  European  and  American 
matters  gaieralty)  \  a  national  political  review  (on  Dutch 
matters  only);  a  fortnightly  chroniile  (fur  incidental 


nd  lastlv,  a  biblio- 

ant  publicatiooa  of 
.  of  aB  new  l>ooks 


books  on  history,  or  polltloa,  &c.) ; 

Etaphy,  comprising — reviews  of  re 
istorlcal  or  political  interest;  ■  li 

published  in  the  world,  arranged  alphabetically;  ■ 

mary  of  the  contenta  of  various  periodicals,  which  ara 
either  entirely  devoted  to  biatory  and  polities,  or  whieh 
contain  articles  of  historical  or  pditical  Interest. 

AvavSTUB  Afpleoith.— The  death  at  Dartlbrd,  at 
the  age  of  eighty-four,  of  Ur.  Applegath  is  annooneed. 
He  was  tbe  origioator  of  some  Important  improvements 
in  the  art  of  printing,  "  tbe  inventor,"  says  the  FellMaU 
"      "    "  of  tbe  com  position-ball  and  composition-roller. 


d  atlerwRrds  of  the  ateam  f 
■ention  of  b. 


It  could  not  be  foived  be  re- 
ceived [rom  the  bank  anthoritie^  IS.QOOL  He  also  In- 
vented a  machine  for  printing  all  colours  at  onca  Tbe 
patent  for  the  eteam-piess  was  in  the  joint  names  of 
Cowper  and  Applegath.  The  first  bookprintad  by  steam 
was  WaCerton's  Waaderingi.  Mr.  Applegath  subsequently 
established  great  silk  and  print  works  at  Cravford  and 
Dartfoid," 

The  DiRBcroKSHir  or  ths  Katioxal  Gali.bbt. — 
Itia  reported  that  Mr.  Boxall,  S.A.,  whose  term  of  oDea 
ihortly,  will  not  be  likely  to  yield  to  the  wishes 


fof  Unl 


I 


OxFOHt). — The  valuable  theoltwical  and  general  llbrai 
belonging  to  the  late  Rev.  Dr.  PTumptre,  Hast 
vereity  College,  is  announced  for  ssle  at  the 
Hotel,  on  Thursday  and  Friday  next  wedt 

Caubrii>oe.— The  library  Syndicate  hare  issued  a 
leo^tby  report  with  reference  to  tbe  new  edition  of  the 
University  OrrfuuMoost  (the  old  one  being  Ineoraplele^ 
which  they  hara  prepared.  There  are  discrepandca  be- 
tween the  rules  now  published  by  the  aothotjty  of  the 
Syndicate  and  thosB  which  have  been  from  time  to  time 
couflrmed  by  the  Senate. 

PnorEsaoB  LiaBTioor. — Xo  small  amonnt  of  aatls- 
fsction  will  be  felt  by  tbe  public  when  they  are  informed 
that  the  Hulseut  Pnifessor  of  Divinity,  so  well  known 
for  bis  work  on  the  GalaCians,  Ac,  has  been  nominated 
W  Mr.  Gladstone  to  the  vacant  canonrv  at  St.  Paul's. 
Dr.  Lightfoot'a  recent  noble  benefactions  to  tbe  Univer- 
sity of  Cambridge  will  be  fresh  in  the  minds  of  our 
readers. 

St.  Andrew's.— The  Senatns  Acadcmlcus  of  the  Uni- 
versity have  JBSt  conferred  the  degree  of  LL.D.  on  the 
Dean  of  Weatmiuiter. 

The  CoMOBiaaioHAi,  Libbabt.— This  library  con- 
tains 167,668  bound  voI^me^  and  00,000  pamphlela. 
Under  the  operation  of  the  new  copyright  law,  the  library 
received  during  the  past  year  174  book^  8140  pamphleta 
and  periodicals,  S891  miujcal  compoaltlons,  1175  engrav- 
ings, photographs,  and  chromos,  1420  prints,  146  maps 
and  charts  ;  total,  11,51!. 

The  Abbey  op  Hato.— The  Rev.  P.  Sheridan  is  en- 
deavouring to  laisa  afnnd  for  the  preservation  and  partial 
'-'-  of  this  Bndent  bnildlng,  wbich,  accor^ng  to 


lite  abbey  having  been  thrice  burned  by  the 
in  the  thmeenth  century,  plundered  by  Sir 
William  Da  Bnrga. 

hasDoti  iHSEBSATioirAL  ExDiBniof  or  1871. — 
Mr.  J.  C.  Buckmaster  haa  been  appointed  by  Her  lia- 
jeaty'a  CommlsslDners  to  deliver  an  address  on  the  value 
of  the  Exhibition,  and  its  bearing  on  industrial  inatraa-  . 
lion,  deugned  particularly  fbr  the  workine-claases  in  aH  j  ^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*"  S.  TII.  Fbb.  18,  "71. 


"  Rsvtnt  DCS  Dbdx  Moiu»a."~-'Mani.  BkHU^ 
„  the  l^adiui  uants,  liive  received  official  notice 
le  editon  thkt  the 


Wk  ue  Terr  nny  to  hav  thit  onr  cantemporar? 
Tie  AwjfaDom'hu  ■Uqqnd  lU  pnblioatliui  with  iu  last 
fito.*fiSTO.  Bibliogmphr  does  not  par-M  a  rule,  b«- 
CMue  it  interesta  but  a  eelect  circle  of  dtlMaxti.  In  hla 
five  Tolnnua,  printed  at  250  copies  only,  M.  Beijean  has 
gathtnd  a  gnat  deal  of  most  valuable  InrDrmation.  The 
nuUBisiu  EBC^imiles  whioh  illnatrate  bis  ddi^  hare  been 
dnnni  aod  engraved  by  bia  own  banil,  and  have  the 
merit  not  to  be  betUr  than  the  origiaaU,  becaiue  be 
never  toBohni  a  graver  before  being  flrty  yeais  of  age, 
and  haa  never  nea  a  profewionil  engraver  at  work. 


BOOKS  AND    ODD  VOLUMES 

VAHTSD  TO  PimOBASK, 


^oUctH  to  enrrci^iantrniU. 

USKKD.— W.  LoBD  is  riftmd  lo  "N.  &  Q."  1"  8.  vliL 
321,  368,  601. 

To  Kia.—W.  wiU  JImd  Ai  mmf  Bogvbnn  u  any  Gtr- 
nai  dietirman/.    Maiaa%,i^otl  OKllnrtly  umt  diwfrthw 


CiuzT  Tales  ■ 
Bngauaaofaimt 

-wUannlatliigto  Mr.  Ctaiw't  famUn,  kt  it  remi—ttd 


nttiiha 
HimttT,  RtotOT,  'Ba^,  IfS: 


Bl"iifrfrrtlnliHi|[1hmriiHr'i""*i 


K 


EaSRS.  PCTTICE  &  SIMPSON  -wiU  SELL  by 

AtlCnCTB.  At  UwlT  HodH.  0,  IWnatn  *qBMn.  W.C.,  « 
fDAT.  FrtKBTT  I7lh.  >  Valnilllf  COI.IiB(mON  of  EKOI.ua 
FOHEIQW  AimxiaAPHS.  tnrJodLuiuiiii  vciT  Ane  uid  ma 
•dtnc'EdiiaMIV.,  Hnrr'rv  „  BU»tiKh,  J«t«  I..  ILrMdnTl 
rlo  I..  CrsmvaU.  lohs  W»]>t,  Jubn  Lock^  W.  C<iiT|wr.  Bul- 


PA2tT&ISGE    AJII)    COOfEK. 

MANDPACFUBrNQ  STATIOWEIW, 


HOWARD,  SoTgeon-DoDtist,  S2,  Fleet  Street, 


1ANILA  CIGAHS,— MESSK3.  VENNING  &  CD. 
of  IT,  BAST  DTDIA  CHAUBBUS,  LOHDOH,  tan  JW  f»- 

(n4  ■ODHliunniKirNa.  IMANILA  CIOABS,  In  aimlltBleDa- 
nvpuiltd  bj  A  nmltunrf. 


LAMPLOnSH'S 
PTIETIC     BALIlfE 

H  pwndlar  ad  rtoaikablt  HtartlH  Lb 

-*~ — nUni  ud  nHns  Hiij.  S«r1i 


IRON    DOOHS    FOB   BTSONG   BOOMS, 
lUiahmtad  Prae  JJiU  Grmtit  amd  PoU-Frtt. 

CHDBB  «nd  SON, 

a7.Bt.PHiriChiiTcli7kTd,LtiiulDDin.Lar4BMtt»li1iBrpaglTt  !/-> 
M.CnHftr*M,  HmiiDlitltai  and  WglTHhHBptin.  ,  1^ 


4lS.Vn.  FBn,!5,'71.] 


KOT£S  AND  QUERIES. 


155 


r,  ISATB»DiT,  FSBKVAny  K,  ISH. 


CONTENTS,— ir»  I( 


If  of  tbe  Ww. 


SOTESj  — CiyrtrnMhy,  IBS- Another  St 
lG8-l*.A.L.or''iriQ,"--CliAlCTiii  eu  E-paeHB    - 
ScnlticlaniBia  Ameri™  — Ewlrn'»"DiBry":  Q^uitlcO* 
—  CbiiUeftboiui  Uonle*  —  CaateiuriBii*.  US. 

QVK&IBS:  -The  Bnikeii   Bridge,  lao  -  " Aiithak«ik 
nnr,..li4  »[  »..»t™ti."_4,Bry  Fedigree  -  ArtiflcUl  r5- 
"TlieConcfiiMl"     '^- 


B*hh.([  — Ci 


es','! 


hy  Irloh  Biihopi 


sdlii. 


^^H1 


Had:  'Nut- 


Beren   Ben 


-  Chin 


It  hpkl  Electioiu  —  lakitand  of  Wedgwood  Ware.  IW. 
BEPLIBS:  -  Irlih  Cw  and  Noddj,  m  -  Blr  Williuu 
Bivcr,  Knt,  IH —Badger,  lU  —  Ombra,  HT  —  The  Book- 
wnrni.  U8  — BhakanKBT*  and  ArdiSii,lW— "Pwwn  ud 
'B»r.n-  171  —  A'B«oket(*B  Uiuderen:  SomenMsbLre 
m.re.— lAdjOrlmd'Ui'iQranln'Aw^Ohuroh- 


ln'AwinOli 
borcb.  Men 


fuil  — Himl  Putlog  fn  BtanloD  Oborcb,  Norfolk 
urt rait  or  John  Kar — "  TboDdi  Iwt  to  SlalA  to  Huof^ 
doir"  —The  ProDOnobUan  ^^6reek  tod  Latia  — The 
Ihah  Ptaailj:  "BuMDeT  Bqutre  Jonei"—  Be*.  Bamuel 
HmlajF  —  Dngou  ^  nsh«nu<»i  in  th«  <Hdm  Time  -~ 
Ua'itr,  the  German  Poet  —  Hampihtre  OouQir;  Churcli- 
yaid:  Pepj-a'B  ■■  Diiry "  —  Tlmothj  DeHer  — "Gallma- 
liaa"  — fiMrbrdokOuikiai— Th*Apiical;He— (Uibu  — 
WhoiBB  L^C  — Old  Sandawn  Oatla.  Ue  of  Wight  — 


"The  P 


IX"~ 


CRYPTOGBAPHT. 

A  crypto^ph,  or,  aa  it  is  not  un&eqMntly 
termed,  K  cyiMtr,  is  &  me«Uj^  (writt«n  oi  tela- 
BT^hed  as  the  case  ma^  be)  of  wbick  tka  mean- 
ing ia  rendered  uniDtellinbltt  to  all  unacquainted 
Tith  tbe  rol^ifbllowadui  itscoDsbmctioa.  Theee 
rules,  privately  agreed  upon  bj  the  parties  eorre- 
gpooiing,  luuatly  apply  to  the  saBstitntion  of 
ijmbols  for  letteia:  eometimes  also,  but  l«aa 
beqnentlj,  to  a  Bystematie  miapbcemeDt  oi  ike 
letters  from  their  pn^r  pomliona  in  a  vord.  They 
admit  of  almoat  endlera  variaty. 

The  process  of  finding  out  the  rule  by  an  ana- 
lytical investigation  of  the  cipher  ia  called  deci- 
pkermg,  and  the  true  meauuu'  thoa  obtained,  the 
tvclnlum.  The  openttioD  ia  often  a  difSeult,  if  net 
hnpoaaible  one,  and  has  oocwioakUy  engaged  the 
atteDtioD  of  very  profound  thinkers. 

Mdhoda  e(  secvet  cfmunnnicatton,  aomewhat 
Keemblin^  modem  dpher,  appear  to  haTs  been 

Ctised  u  very  early  timea.  The  aoytala  of  the 
■tans  hae  be^i  often  eonndered  ae  forming  an 
.  early  link  in  ita  develt^ment.  During  the  last 
two  or  three  centuriea  nnmeroas  improved  aystems 
have  been  invented,  and  frequently  employed  both 
in  matters  of  national  importance  and  in  the  more 
ordinary  af&irs  of  life.  In  onr  day  dpher  lends  ita 
aid  to  politics,  war,  commerce,  love,  and  even, 


occasionally,  to  crime.  A  mystic  linn  in  a  column 
of  newspaper  advertisementa — to  the  uninitiated 
a  sensefesa  jumble  of  marks  and  letters — may 
oftenconvey  themeset^of  abTertohismietreBs; 
or  it  may  sometimes  be  the  friendly  caution  from 
a  thief  to  his  "  pal."  During  the  civil  wars  at  the 
begianinf  of  th«  sevuiteentli  century,  cipher  dis- 
patchea  vrrae  so  muck  in  vogue  that  each  army 
seems  to  have  employed  exp^^  for  the  evolution 
of  any  it  m%h.t  eaptwe  ttota  tke  other  side.  Of 
those  men  who  mad«  deoiph^nga  study  vid  pro- 
fession pro  ten.,  perhaps  the  most  remarkable  was 
Wallk,  the  leading  matbemaiician  of  his  time. 

It  is,  indeed,  ohiefly  in  war,  when  communica- 
ttoos  between  generals  of  division  and  othen 
must  paw  through  an  enemy's couatiy,  that  cipher 
assiunea  its  greatest  importance,  for  the  mesaagefl 
in  many  cases  can  be  trusted  in  no  other  form. 
Written  in  c^hev  they  eonoeal  from  the  enemy, 
should  he  intercept  them,  information  and  oiden 
respecting  future  operations,  on  the  carrying  out 
of  which  ponibty  the  fate  of  a  campfugn  depends, 
(V  course  this  is  supponng  him  unable  to  evolve 

Having  said  thus  much  reapecting  the  usea  to 
which  cipher  may  be  applied,  I  proceed  to  de- 
scribe very  briely  seTerat  systems  more  or  less 
intricate. 

In  devieiiv  rules  lor  the  eoaatrucdon  of  a  mes- 
sage, the  following  oouditioM  ought  to  be  attended 

tOL— 

1.  The  dpher  produced  must  be  sufBoienUy 
intricate  as  to  render  its  evolution  under  all  pro- 
bable  circumslanoM  ItariUy  possible.  Theoretically 
no  ordinary  cryptograph  of  more  than  a  certun 
len^h  ought,  perhaps,  to  be  considered  quite  proof 
against  uoravelment  when  submitted  to  a  clever 
expert — allowing  him  unlimited  time;  but  prac- 
tically, when  time  is  an  object,  many  are  so. 

3.  The  rules  must  be  concise  and  eauly  remem- 

3.  TtMy  ooght  to  be  of  sock  a  nAtnre  Aat  Aeir 
application  both  directly  to  the  oonatniction  and 
inversely  to  the  reading  of  a  cipher  shall  be 
simple  and  expeditious  processes.  It  would  be 
absurd  ware  a  general  on  the  field  of  battle  to 
receive  a  di^iatch  requiring  an  hour  for  its  in- 
torpretatioB.  Circumstances  ought  to  guide  ua  in 
our  ohiuce  of  a  rule.  Where  secrec;  is  all-essen- 
tial, and  time  of  little  moment,  tlus  last  condition 
may  therefore  be  somewhat  mnored. 

We  will  now  take  the  foUowing  as  examples 
of  very  eosy  cipher : — 

{!).... Uif  bttsftt  »K  tfrif»fjlJShm  Mfx  Ttaffk. 
Themeaning  of  which  1^ 

"  The  addrens  you  require  ia  eight  New  Street." 
Here  the  rule  has  been  to  substitute  as  a  symbol 
for  any  particular  letter  the  next  to  it  m  the 
alphabet:  b  hta  been  written  for  a, /for 


Digiiizeo  by 


Google 


156 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4"  S.  VU.  Fkb.  t! 


(S)  Uope  Mbe  lilbmefltpi.  JfrnU  uotb/m  ubnijt 
mtiyx  fe  ^UiAidt.  tn  exsmple  (2)  the  lettera 
■n  a^bolised  exactly^  m  in  (1) ;  but  in  addition 
to  this,  each  wotd  ie  inverted  Mid  must  be  read 
backwards.  Tbia  the  reader  can  decipher  for 
hinaelt 

Frequentlj,  however,  letters  are  repkced  bj 
others  which  nave  no  appsrent  alphabetical  con- 
nection with  them.  The  Soidier't  Podcttbook,  bj 
Colonel  Wolaeley,  describes  an  admirable  method 
of  this  kind,  in  which  the  required  subetitutinns 
may  be  at  once  found  on  reference  to  a  diagram. 
The  coDstiucUoD  of  the  diagram  is  readily  leamt 
and  remembered  by  all  interested  in  cipher  corre- 
spondence, bat  this  is  useless  in  any  particular 
case  without  a  knowledge  of  the  key^  which  is  a 
word  secretly  agreed  upon  by  the  writer  and  per- 
son addressed.  Of  course,  marks  of  any  kind  may 
be  used  as  symbols,  but  letten  or  figures  are 
usually  employenL 

Where  acipher  isloDgenongh  to  inelnde  a  cer- 
tain proportion  of  the  letters  most  commonly  in 
use,  or,  more  correctly  speaking,  of  their  symbolical 
equivalents  fsupposmg  each  letter  to  have  but 
one,  and  the  lao^age  to  be  known),  its  evoluliou 
is  generallv  poaoble  by  attendingto  the  following 
considerations  as  ^ven  for  the  Xnglish  language 
in  the  Encjfctopadta  BriUamica .- — 

1.  Letters  or  symbols  of  most  frequent  occur- 
rence may  be  set  down  as  meaning  vowels.  Of 
theie,  «  is  the  roost  nnroerous,  m  the  least  so.  3. 
Vowels  most  common  togethi 


IT  appears  double,  it  is  generally _^  /,  t,  or 
Towels  >  and  a,  6.  The  letter  preceding  or  fol- 
lowing two  aimilar  characters  is  either  a  vowel  or 
^  m,  n,  or  r.  6.  In  deciphering  begin  with  words 
of  one  letter;  they  will  be  a,  ^  o,  or^.  7.  Then 
take  those  of  two  letters  lone  of  which  will  be  a 
Towel.  The  most  fm^uent  in  use  are :  to,  be,  by, 
of,  on,  or,  no,  a*,  at,  tf,  m,  it,  he,  me,  tny,  us,  we, 
am.  8.  In  words  of  three  letters,  mostly  two  are 
consonants.  The  most  frequent  are :  Ote,  and,  not, 
bvt,yel,  for,  l/io',  how,  vhy,  ali,  j/oil  the,  is,  her, 
our,  who,  may,  can,  did,  tcai,  are,  has,  had,  let,  one, 
Ivo,  six,  ten,  Ac,  some  of  which,  and  words  of 
two  letters,  are  found  in  every  sentence.  9.  Most 
common  words  of  four  letters :  this,  that,  then,  thue, 
Tvilh,  when,frofn,  here,  tome,  most,  none,  they,lh»m, 
xehom,  mne,  yovr,  self,  must,  wiU,  have,  beat,  icere, 
four,  five,  nine.  kc.  10.  Of  five  letters :  their, 
these,  thote,  ahich,  where,  uhile,  since,  there,  shall, 
tmg^  cotiid,  tcould,  onyht,  three,  seven,  eight,  &c. 
11.  Words  of  two  or  more  syllables  frequently 
be^  with  double  coDsonaots  or  with  a  preposi- 
tion: i. «.,  a  vowel  joined  with  one  or  more  con- 
sonants.    Most  common  double  consonants:  bl,br, 


^ijfi  Af  S^  iTt  P^>  P^  fi  A  *''  V'  •'j  *A)  '^i  «^i 
wr,  ftc.    Most  common  preposiiior-    - 


de,  die,  ix,  im,  in,  int,  mis,  per,  pre,  pro,  re,  stA, 
tup,  m,  &C.  12.  Double  consonants  at  the  end  of 
a  long  word  are  most  frequently :  ck.  Id,  ^,  mn, 
ad,  nf/,  rl,  rm,  rp,  rt,  »m,  ft,  xi,  &c.  Moat  common 
terminations :  e,  ed,at,  er,  ei,  et,  ing,  ly,  torn,  eio», 
tian,  able,  ence,  ment.fuU,  lot,  nets,  sc. 

On  principles  analogous  to  these,  ciphers  written 
in  other  languages  may  (in  the  majority  of  cases) 
be  evolved. 

Many  dpheri  are  rendered  mora  posxling  than 
they  otherwise  vrould  be  by  having  tbe  words 
joined  together  as  though  the  whole  formed  one 
word,  and  furthermore  by  the  omission  of  abort 
words  such  as  the,  and,  Ac,  the  absence  of  which 
does  not  destroy 'the  true  sense.  The  use  of 
caintals  may  also  be  dispensed  with. 

But  to  come  to  more  abstruM  ayslems.  If, 
instead  of  always  representiog  the  same  letter  by 
one  symbol,  we  bare  teceral,  and  emplOT  one  or 
other  of  them  ad  Iffnlum,  the  evolution  (without 
the  help  of  a  key)  becomes  extremely  difficult,  if 
not  practically  impossible.  The  following  appears 
to  me  a  auSJciently  easy  method  of  carrying  out 
this  principle.  Soma  easily  remembered  sentence 
containing  every  letter  of  the  alphabet,  and  in 
which  the  most  common  ones  are  several  times 
repeated,  is  chosen  for  a  key ;  the  words  are  let- 
tered in  alphabetical  rotation,  and  the  letten  in 
each  word  numbered  from  the  bennning  of  that 
word.  Suppose,  for  instance,  we  take  for  our  key 
the  following  sentence,  which  fulfils  these  con- 
di  lions — 

"  (o)  probity,  (b)  kindness  (c)  of  (d)  manner, 
(e)  intelligence,  (/)  and  (g)  ">^  W  ^  (.')  t^"* 
O')  service,  (i)  are  (f)  qualities  (m)  wliich(ii) 
justly  (o)  excite  (p)  wJmiration." 

To  each  word  an  uu^-letter  ia  affixed,  as  the 
reader  will  observe.  The  numbering  of  the  letters 
is  not  shown — it  can  be  readily  obtained  by 
counting.  As  an  ud  both  in  remembering  and 
applying  tbe  key,  the  initial  letters  of  its  words, 
with  their  mdex-lettere  below  each,  may  be  kept 
in  a  written  form  always  at  hand.  Thus — 
PKOAflAZFTSAQ  WJEA 
a  b  c  defffhijk  I  m  n  o  p 
Now,  in  constructing  a  cipher,  the  symbol  to  be 
used  for  a  letter  is  obtained  wherever  we  find 
that  latter  in  the  key,  and  is  formed  of  the  num- 
ber of  the  letter  in  the  word  contaioing  it  attached 
to  the  index-letter  of  that  word.  As  an  illustra- 
ion,  suppose  we  had  to  cipher  "  gun,"  we  have 
ut  one^,  which  is  the  8th  letter  in  the  word 
intelligence,"  whose  index-letter  is  e.  For  g  we 
tbererore  write  e8.  For  u  we  have  two  symbuls, 
via.,  12  and  n2,  either  of  which  we  may  emplov; 
and  for  n  eiaht,  vii.,  63,  66,  di,  di,  e&,  elO.f'J, 
plO.     One  form  of  cipher  for  "  gun  "  is,  therefore, 


h3,  (£).     Where  capitals  occur  ^e  may  iu« 


I  capital  index-letters. 


**S.VILFbb.25,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


157 


ir  key  will  at  once  give  an  idM 


A-d2,/l,s 

C-tU,iG,mi,Oi. 
2>—bi,/3,p2. 

F-ei,Al. 


S—bl. 

L-eS,a,gi,H,nS. 

lt--M,pS. 


U—I2,ni. 
V-ji. 
IT— ml. 
X-o2. 

r—ai,^. 

Z-gl. 

ir  vm\j  this  kej  to  the  dispatch — 

"  The  eoemj  oas  deatiojed  bridge  orer  R.  at  N. 

Farces  to  oppose  him  most  be  aeot  via  Northern 

wiL" 
In  cipher  it  moB  thus,  at  least  this  is  out  form 

«f  conatTuction : — 

«4A3<i6M«8M     eljM&jS     J3.     fleS     J}5. 

CSA%3m4(4i8    eSoS    eldlalh3j\b6    i2l2pS 

AffiSTtl     <i4dS     b8eidS»   j4el/l 

D4a3a2«3m2«0<ffi<M     hSgaefgi. 
Observe  that  where  the  same  word  occurs  both 

In  the  iiej  and  in  the  dispatch  we  may  eonveni- 

«ntij  symbolize  it  by  the  index-letter  alone.    In 

the  above  /is  put  for  "the  " — a  word  which  might, 

however,  have  been  omitted. 
Here  is  another  example  of  the  system  which 

the  reader  may  easily  decipher. 

An<K64ol    d3«6nBl>8/le3fl4e5ePn2  e363n6e?tB 

«l<Od5t8.      0S<MA2.     a2/2el     ASgZJG.     gigla5 

Ql.Nli2aieSe6t1iit7i8     iSb2     o3J2J5dSeU2 

A    Si, 

The  key  consists  in  the  Bbsurd  sentence — 
"Doctor  John  Quack,  bein^  extremely  in  want 
of  patients,  resolved  to  maue  sooie  by  turning 
priie-fighter" ;  which,  if  we  take  only  the  initiBl 
letters,  may  be  abbreviated  in  a  form  useful  for 
refnence,  as  in  the  last  case. 

SJQBEIWOPJtrafSBTPF 
a  b  e  A  »  f  g  h  i  j  k  I  m  n  o  p  q 
Another  plan  of  cipher,  which,  if  too  elaborate 
for  ordinary  purposes,  might,  I  think,  some- 
timei  be  employed  with  advantage  for  short 
messages  of  great  importance,  consists  in  repre- 
aeoting  letters  by  numbers.  The  number  aignify- 
ing  a  certain  letter  is  not,  however,  a  constant 
quantity,  but  one  depending  on  others,  some  of 
which  Tarj.  It  may  depend,  for  instance :  (1) 
on  the  position  the  letter  holds  in  a  word  j  (2)  on 
that  of  the  word  in  a  sentence,  as  well  as  (3)  on 
its  own  alph-jbelieal  value,  i.e.  the  number  it 
occupies  in  the  alphabet  counted  from  the  begin- 
ning ;  the  relatjonehip  these  several  quantities  have 
to  one  another  being^efined  by  a  simple  equation. 


To  make  the  system  perfectly  intelligible,  sup- 
pose P  to  denote  the  alphabetical  value  of  aletter 
whose  symbol  iB  X;  a  the  number  of  tiie  letter  in 
a  word,  and  b  that  of  the  word  in  the  sentence — 
each  sentence  being  worked  out  independently  of 
thoae  which  precede  it.  The  values  of  P  for  the 
whole  alphabet  are  here  shown : — 
ASCDJSFOSIJK  L  M  N  O 
1  2  3  4   S  e  7    8  9  10  11  13  13  14  1& 

p  Q  s  s  T  ir  r  w  X  r  z 

16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26 

Almost  any  simple  equation  of  some  such  form 
as  the  fdlowmg  will  do : — 
a)*=P+n-a    .    .      ori'=a-+<i-ll 
r2)i=P+7  +  fc-n     .      otP=xA-a-<J*h) 
(3)ar=P+2(6  +  10)-2oorP=ar-t-2a-2(6  +  I0) 
ha.,  &C. 

The  messsge  to  be  dphered  is  first  vnitten  tfat, 
and  in  calcuUting  the  values  oi  x  wa  count  those 
of  a  and  fr  for  each  letter  aa  we  proceed,  and  place 
them  in  the  equation.  Solved  ior  P  (as  shown  on 
the  left),  the  equation  gives  ua  the  key  to  be  em- 
ployed in  the  evolution.  In  designing  an  equa- 
tion some  moderately  easy  form  is  best,  as  the 
multiplication  of  high  numbers  involves  a  needless 
waste  of  time.  Forms  producing  fractional  values 
of  the  symbol  ought  also  to  be  avoided,  and  it 
were  as  well  to  choose  one  not  likely  to  give 
ne^tive  onea.  This  may  be  managed  by  remem- 
bering that  P  varies  from  1  to  26 ;  a  is  rarely 
more  than  12,  and  b  than  20 — a  sentence  being 
taken  as  the  collection  of  words  between  two 
periods.  In  this  kind  of  cryptogr^h  the  symbols 
must  be  eepsrated  by  commas  to  prevent  posdble 
confusion,  and  a  dn«h  or  cross  inserted  between 
every  word. 

As  an  example,  we  will  apply  equation  (1)  to 
the  dispatch — 

''  Attack  at  four  to-monow  morning." 

The  dpher  is — 

11,29,28,8.9,16—11,29—16^4,29,25—30,24,21, 
22,24,23,19,26—23,24,36,21,15,19,11. 

The  message— 

"  The  enemy  has  thirty  thousand  men  and  one 
hundred  guns." 
— constructed  on  equation  (2),  is  as  follows: — 

27,14,10—13,21,11,18,29-17,0,26—30,17,17, 
25,20,-30—31,18,24,29,26,7,19,8-25.16.24- 
14,26,15  —  29,27,17—23,35,27,16,26,15,13  — 
23,36,28,32. 

Let  the  reader  unravel  the  following  by  means 
of  equation  {3): — 

28,19,32,21—42,28,23-26,27,21,86,21,32. 

J.  R.  C, 


d  by  Google 


NOTES  AN0  QUERIES. 


[l"'S.Vn.FE8.S5,  Tl. 


AKOTHEK  30KU  OF  THE  WAR. 

The  following  aang,  wbich  Iwa  a  wide  circnk- 
tion  in  Paris,  chiefly  in  Belleville,  the  Wbile- 
diapel  of  the  capital  of  France,  is  aiceedinfrly 
clever,  and  illustrates  what  was  stated  in  the 
political  papers  relating  to  the  present  feeling  of 
the  French  people  towards  England.  Besides 
that,  such  poatr;  ie  always  interesting,  and  must 
aerred  aa  a  ]i&rt  of  general  1"' —  *"" 
n  author  has  j  uetly  remarked 

"  TbMa  witty  ind  popuUi  tffdsions  li|;htm  ki  the 
hooi  the  preesutB  of  (yrannical  poirar,  aod  soothe  the 
fiwliDga  of  the  peoplB  when  under  the  InflnencB  of  pablic 
cidtement."— 7S«  HUtory  of  Folitical  Littratvt  firm 
lK>  Earliai  Tima,  vol.  ii.  ih.  iii.  Bj  Bobert  Blacker- 
LondoD,  1S55.    2  vols.  8vo. 

Deux  cotillons  sont  a  Potsdam, 

L'on  dib :  "  Main  Gott ! "  I'ftutre  «  G—  ! 

Appelez  le  roi  de  Bavi^ ; 

II  est  ea  has  qui  boit  la  biire." 

— «  A^ne,  mon  frtre,  c'est  ton  tour, 

Grimpe  au  Bommet  de  cette  tour, 

Et  dis-Dous,  aoaa  peine  de  scblague. 

Tout  ce  que  tu  veiras,  sans  blague." 

Ije  bavard-oie  a  r^poodu:' 

"  On  aait  que  je  me  suis  fendu' 

Tellement  pour  le  roi  Guillaame, 

Que  j'ai  compromis  moDioyaume. 

"  Je  vous  le  dis  sana  calemboui^, 

Punr  la  tum^  de  Biaodebou^, 

II  n'est  ehoae  que  je  De  faaw 

A6d  de  m^tar  ma  gtAce." 

—  "  Eh,  de  la  tour !  *  Ohd,  Idmhert  I « 

Que  Toia-tu  P  "— "  Je  voia  Wiirtembe^ 

Et  le  Saxon  ivies  de  rage. 

Qui  ae  repiusseot  de  carnage. 

"  Dana  la  snng  ila  vont  tr^huchant, 

Et,  ce  qui  n'est  paa  moins  touchou^ 

Je  voia  lea  snciens  k  VersaiUe, 

Le  verre  en  miua,  qui  font  ripaille. 

"Coat  le  grand-due  de  Mecklenhoorg^ 

Avec  ce  comte  d'Eulenhou^, 

Qui,  s'^tant  rerapli  la  beence,* 

Saigna,  pour  rii«,  un  coq  d' Alsace.^ 


t  The  talkative  gooac ;  pronounced  as  Amarau,  Bava- 
*  i  did  m  V  ntmoat. 


*  Ad  imitation  of  the  call  of 
»  A  vul((«r  by-word. 

•  The  belly, 

T  Sums  yeara  ago,  the  son  of  Graf  von  Eulenbarg, 
beint^in  liquor,  killed  a  poor  iaalTensive  French  cook.  Tm 

recollections  serve  me  well,  his  fother  was  the  niiDi>l«r  of 
war.  Uaviiie  been  tried  by  a  court-martial,  the  eallBnt 
warrior  was  leniently  dealt  with,  the  judges  coneidering 
tbe  case  as  a  kind  of  drunken  brawl  between  a  butcher 


"  Reine-imp^rattica  Augusta, 
Ton  vieux  pochurd  de  mari  t'a- 
T-il  fait  BAvoir  par  tfl^gr^he 
Combien  il  a  siffl^  d'eou  daffet* 
"  n  a'abreuve  de  raUinf,* 
Ec  n'a  jamais  moins  \6siaS ; 
Pout  la  mitomier  dsvantage, 
IJ  fait  bruler  ville  et  village. 
"  Mein  Herr  le  comte  de  Biamarck, 

Jure  qu'il  n'eat  lien  qui  J'Sgale, 

EC  soir  et  matin  s'en  regale. 

"  Quand,  sana  peur  d'etre  bafoud,    - 

Guilkume  dit ;  '  Dieu  soit  lou£ ! ' 

John  Bull,  teuyer,  de  peur  hleiiM, 

Rdpond :  <  Noa  boutiquea  de  mSme ! '  " 

FuKCiaairB-MiOBB. 
Atheoieam  Club,  PaU  Uall,  Feb.  SO.  1871. 


P.  A.  L.  OF  "  N.  &  Q."~If  your  valued  corre- 
spondent should  see  this,  allow  me  to  expiesa  a 
hope  that  the  capitulation  cf  Paris  will  ouUe  as 
ogiiia  to  profit  by  his  evei^ready  Bt<«w  of  ittlbnaa- 
tion.  His  last  communication  to  ro«r  pages  heart 
the  date  of  September  M,  1870;  and  Us  Mi^t 
on  seeing  "  N.  &  Q."  again,  after  so  long  ui  in- 
terval, caa  only  be  aqualled  by  ovis  mien  w9 
again  recogniae  his  pleaaant  aneweEBto  oni  uulti- 
faiious  inquiries.  M.  D. 

"  Chituux  xk  E8P&eira.'''—^nM»tlM  **!«*- 
tna  apirituetles  "  of  3.  Fnnfois  de  SbIm  oeewa,  I 
fancy,  the  tirat  mention  of  thia  fuaiUar  ;^rM^ 
which,  as  an  equivalent  for  obt  own  idiom  of 
"  castles  in  the  air,"  haa  Mnce  then  becowo  pro- 
verbial. The  subjoined  passage  I  take  &om  the 
1843  Paris  edition  of  the  O^vrea  ehomea  dt  S, 
Franqoii  de  Salet,  torn,  premier,  p.  285.  In  thia 
particular  epistle,  the  Bishop  ol  Geneva  (who 
Souriahed  in  the  later  half  of  the  sixteenth  and 
the  earlier  part  of  the  seventeenth  century,  1567- 
1622),  addressing  himself  "  k  une  diune,"  in  regard 
to  the  preriaratiou  for  meditation  and  the  perfect- 
ing  oneself  in    on"'' " —    — *"    "- 

foflows  :— 

"  Per9^vi?rei  k  bien  vons  valnci 
nocaeontndieliaDsjoumalibresq 
le  gros  da  voa  d^ra  pour  cela  i  i 
rien  de  vous,  siaon  cela,  pour 
amosez  doneques  pos  k  *  ' 

^re:  ne  d( 


de  la  conduile  spiriluelle  :  chacan  ayme  selon  son  goi 
pea  de  geaa  ayment  sdoD  leur  devoir  et  h  goust  «  Noa- 

tre-Selgnenr.    De  quoy  sert-il  de  bMir  dea  ohaiit«i 

Eapigae,  puisqa'li  noiu  hat  habiUriD  Franca? 


vocation,  wntes    as 


*  £>;^fraaii<r<i^,toas«l  off  brandy., 

*  Baiiiiu,  hloo^  gore.      '  ,.    ( 


rcopi^ic 


**6.VII.Fbb.26,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


159 


oBe  d^nititm  of  the  phraee  I 
find  "  efalteftu  <n  Espagne  "  explained  thai — u 
*'cu6em  in  the  air,  literally  casdM  in  Spain,  r 
ecmntr;  in  which  ■  cwtlea '  are  like  angela  vinta, 
'  few  and  fcr  botwaen '  "—an  eijilanation  Ttiich 
ia  am^f  Mfolcwa.  Hen,  in  this  incidental  iUue- 
ti»ti*«  reference  of  S.  Fraofoia  d«  S&les,  u  it 
wems  to  m%  we  get  at  the  original  allu«on  oat 


ScoiTioisUH  in  ASERICA. — I)ean  Kamaaj,  in 
Ilia  ercellent  and  moet  entertainiDg  Semtniieeneet 
of  Scottith  Life  and  0usraeler  (the  fifteenth  edi- 
tion of  which  IB  now  before  me),  mentioua  Mvaral 
voids  and  phrases  which  are  peculiar  to  Scotland. 
Several  of  theae  are  in  nse  in  the  United  States. 
Thus  be  sajs  that  "fraS  eipreases  infirmitj  of 
bodj,  bat  im^eii  no  charge  of  any  laxity  in  moral 
principle."  We  use  the  word  in  this  first  eenae 
aa  well  as  in  the  last,  as  "His  health  is  Tory 
frail,"  or  "  Hb  has  grown  quite  fraiL" 

In  Scotland  a  person  whose  health  has  declined 
is  said  to  have  fiiltd.  This  we  also  use,  as  "  He 
baa  failed  greafly  ainco  I  last  saw  him." 

Bean  Bamsuy  recollects  "a  peculiar  Scottish 

tbrwe  vwy  commonly  iiaed,  which  now  seems  to 
are  passed  away,"  namely,  "the  expression  to 
let  M,  indicating  the  notice  or  obserration  of 
somediing  or  of  some  person.    For  example :  '  I 

eaw  ILi. at  the  meetiiig,  but  I  nerer  iet  on 

tiiat  I  knew  he  wu  present'"  This  ezpresraon, 
witb  pi«ciaely  this  meaning,  ia  la  constant  use 
Among  ns;  and  it  would  be  impossible  to  express 
the  idea  mtended  by  any  dorter  phrase. 

Using  behove  for  bd»m>e  u  another  Scotti<asm 
recorded  by  him.  Hr.  Mark  Antony  Tiollope,  in 
his  volume  on  North  America,  mentions  his  meet- 
ing wiUi  a  nun  in  one  of  our  Western  States  who 
thna  pronounced  the  word.  I  never  beard  it  so 
mispronounced ;  uid  the  person  of  whom  Mr.  Trol- 
lope  8p»Lks  must  have  been  eithw  a  Scotchman 
or  the  son  of  one :  and  having  referred  to  Mr. 
Trollope's  book,  it  gives  me  pleasai«  to  add  that, 
in  ray  iadgment,  it  is  by  far  the  fairest  and  most 
impartial  work  on  this  country  ever  written  by  an 
fbglishman.  Ubbca. 

Pbiladdptali. 


"  I  «w  in  London  an  Inge  ox  bred  in  Kent,  aeventeen 
ftat  b  leoglh,  ind  modi  higbei  than  I  conld  reach." 

/  aaw  in  the  Cattle  Show  of  1869  an  ox  which 
stood,  so  said  the  catalogue,  eighteen  or  twenty 
inches  higher  than  any  other  beast  in  the  show, 
80  that  tall  men  stood  on  a  chair  to  manipulate 


the  patient  (feature ;  bat,  in  these  days  of  ftwcuig, 
the  length,  though  great,  of  the  animri  must  have 
been  much  short  of  tbe  Commonweidlb  on*.  Ho 
must,  I  think,  have  been  a  si^  of  Uie  timea.  When 
monAtrous  things  were  bieedmg.  3.  A.  G, 

CtuiabiDAc 

Cbsibtopqobub  Mobiles. — I  have  Irafore  m« 
two  volumes  of  Masses,  written  by  this  celebnted 
Spaniard ;  and  aa  I  beliere  very  littie  b  Iomwb. 
of  his  mnsio,  and  of  these  volumes  in  particBlar, 
it  seema  that  "  N.  &  Q."  becomes  a  fitting  homs 
for  this  note.  The  first  volume  is  dedicated  to 
"  ninstiiss.  atqne  excelientls.  Cosmo  Media 
Floiea.  Dnci";  and  contains  three  masaea  for 
four  voices  thus  entitled  (generally  from  the  sab- 
jectof  the  fugue): — 1.  "De  beatfi  Vit^ine";  3. 
"Aapice  Domine";  S.  "Vulnerasti  cox  meuou" 
Three  for  five  voices:  1.  "Ave  maris  atella"; 
3.  "Qaeramus  ciuu  pastoribus;"  S.  "L'homme 
arm^."  And  two  for  six  voices:  1,  "Mitle  le- 
gretz";  2.  "  Si  bona  suscepimus." 

The  second  volume  ia  dedicated  to  "  Sanctdssimo 
Paulo  tertio  Pontifici  maiimo,"  and  has  a  fine 
frontispiece,  with  the  Pope  blessing  Morales,  who 
is  holding  open  his  book  of  music  at  the  mass 
"Tu  esvaa."  The  aidea  of  the  plate  are  orna- 
mented with  music  and  instruments;  at  the 
bottom  are  the  arms  of  the  Pope.  This  volume 
contains  five  masses  for  four  voices: — 1.  "Tu  es 


armfi."  Three  for  five  voices:  I.  "Debeat&Vir- 
gine";  2.  "Quem  dicunt  homines";  3.  "Pro 
Sefunctis." 

The  two  volamea  were  printed  at  Rome  by 
Valerius  Doricus  and  Ludovicua,  brotbera,  in  the 
year  1544.  They  are  printed  in  the  old  musical 
square  notation,  and  unbaired;  have  five  initial 
letters  on  each  page ;  and,  at  the  top  of  each  left- 
hand  page,  is  the  writer's  name,  and  on  the  right 
the  name  of  the  mass.  It  ia  said  that  only  uia 
other  copy  of  this  great  worii  exists,  which  is  fit 
the  Vatican ;  and  any  one  who  reprints  the  same 
is  liable  to  excommunication.  I  hope  my  (minus 
ex-')  communication  will  not  be  considered  too 
long,  as  in  all  probability  tbe  books  will  ret  into 
a  library,  and  nothing  more  be  known  or  thought 
of  them.  H.A.W. 

St,  Altum's,  HolbOTD. 

CsMiERABiAirs. — The  following  notices  of  per- 
sons who  have  lived  for  more  than  a  century  aro 
worth  preserving  in"N.  &  Q."  Perhaps  the 
requisite  proofs  m»y  be  furnished  in  your  pages. 
I  have  cut  them  from  the  Lincoln,  Mallaria,  tind 
Stamford  Mercury  of  January  20 : — 

••Mn.HuTP[tt  dled)at  Liaheard,  Cornvall,  the  tXbtx 
iij,  aged  10^  yeKca  and  10  months.  The  leqnldte  proof 
hu  been  obtained  of  her  longsvitv. 

"At  Whittlesfoid,  near  Cambridge,  on  Neiv  Teal's 
Day,  a  woman  named  iSarab  Dunn  aai,  aged  101  yetn. 


XOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*>»S.T1I.  Fkb.!6,T1. 


She  bad  bomn  tweire  children,  and  ihe  had  at  hei  d«atb 
tmoty  graiidchildrtn,  eixtr  Kreat-gnndchildiai,  and 
thilttmsn-at-ftruit-grandchildren.  But,iunKularlorfLite, 
oat  of  aff  these  there  ara  only  two  malea  to  perpetuate  tJiB 
nime  of  Dnnn. 

"  On  Thoraday  the  ISth  died  at  Sandwich  Mrs.  Marr 
Bnller,  who  «u  bom  at  Worth,  near  Sandwich,  March 
86,  1770,  thni  baring  attained  the  patriarchal  age  of 
100  yean  and  nine  montb*.  Un.  Butler,  who  «u 
ohriBUned  and  married  at  her  native  Tillage,  bad  been  a 
widow  upwardi  of  furty  years.  She  waa  aabarpipeaklng 
woman,  Lad  a  quick  ear  and  a  good  memoiy,  bat  had  far 
muat  years  been  quite  blind."  _ 

K.P.D.  E. 

The  following  cutting  from  Zb  Timt*  of 
Jaouar;  last  deMTTM  preMrration  in  "N.  &  Q.": 
Mits.3BiRi.ETMoitaRCoDD,AoEDlOO.— "OnthelTth 
Jan.,  at  Sunex  Lodge,  Kingaton  Hill,  the  retidenee  of  her 
aon,  Edward  S.  Cudd,  Esq.,  isiid  100  yean,  nine  Dkontht^ 
and  >ix  dava,  Mrs.  Shirley  Morse  Codd,  relkt  of  the  late 
Major  Philip  Codd,  of  Rumitead  Conrt,  KtUngbournc, 
Kant,  and  Keiuinglaii." 


THE  broke:^  bkidge. 

Thia  common  street  eihiUlion  i»  well  Ininwn 
Ij  UB  under  tbe  name  of  tha  "  Chinese  •hades " 
and  the  "Fantoccini" — an  Italian  name  which 
meiuis  (according  to  some  Italian  leiicogTHpheis) 
Chinese  phantoma  or  shades.*  The  French  say 
that  the  amusement  is  of  Italian  origin,  to  far  at 
least,  I  preeumAj  as  thej  are  concerned.  The 
Itaiiana  »j  that  it  came  to  them  from  China.  I 
have  never  witnessed  the  Broken  Bridge  in 
1Van(»,  but  I  know  that  it  is  a'common  show  in 
Paris,  lijons,  and  other  cities,  and  that  it  is  soma- 
timea  acted  a  la  Gmffitoi,^  and  sometimes  with  the 
shades.  I  have  met  with  a  French  version  of  the 
dialogue,  which  is  word  for  word  with  ours ;  and 
I  have  heard  the  tune  eungbj  a  French  gentleman, 
and  find  that  it  is  tbe  same  as  the  English  one.  In 
Italf  I  have  seen  two  exhibitions  of  the  Broken 
Bridge.  The  first  was  a  Marionette  one,  and  it 
occnired  at  Arena  on  Logo  Maggiore ;  the  other 
-was  at  Bologna  in  an  erchwa/  in  the  street  that 
leads  from  the  Cathedral  to  the  Great  Square. 
A  visitor  to  Bologna  will  find  that  the  above 
archwaj  is  used  almost  every  night  throughout 
the  year  for  Marionettes  and  Chinese  Shades. 
The  Bologna  show  was  a  "Fantoctnni"  one.  In 
both  dties  the  dialogue  and  song  were  the  same 
as  we  have  them,  and  so  were  the  scenes.  There 
were  tbe  broken  bridge,  the  swan  that  "swam 

*  I  do  not  pranODDce  Ihla  derivation  correct.  I  say  ai 
nnch  to  prerent  any  corr«apandeDt  taking  the  pafnti  to 
convict  roe  of  ignorance  of  etymology.  I  neither  "goeas  " 
nor  prononace  tx  calAtdrd.  I  am  a  very  modest  man, 
and  may,  like  another  correspondent,  tiave  got  bold  of  a 
*  dictioDary  "  of  no  anthority." 

t  By  the  by,  who  was  (iuignol  } 


over,"  and  the  traveller  who  "couldn't";  tbe 
cobbler  and  the  mischievous  woman,  and  the  co1»- 
bler's  impertinent  replj  to  the  tfaveller's  asking 
the  hour.  Indeed  there  was  not  the  slightest  de- 
nation,  either  in  the  music,  song,  dialogue,  and 
Rccesaories,  from  the  same  as  we  have  them  in  our 
exhibition.  In  ItaljtheMaiquis  of  Fonte  Cassats 
is  equivalent  to  the  Hoiquis  of  Carabos  in  France; 
I  should  like  to  know  more  about  the  biatoiy  of 
the  Chinese  shades  and  the  pla/.  What  aUuaioiia 
found  in  any  old  works  P    I  have  no  doubt 


There  ore  few  of  us  who  have  not  langbed  at  die 
Broken  Bridge,  and  I  shall  be  moat  happy  to 
know  when  and  h;  whom  that  immortal  structuro 
was  planned.  Sibfhbk  Jagesoit. 

"  ASTHOtOOIA  BoRBALTS  BT  AnSTBAUB." — Dt. 
Forster,  in  his  Pocket  Eneydopadia  of  Natind 
I^tnomena  (p.  10),  quotes  some  lines — "  Tbe  Stu- 
dent and  tbe  Cherry-clack" — &om  what  he  calb 
"  the  Anthologia  Bor.  et  Atu." ;  and  again  (p.  48) 
introduces  some  quaint  verses  thus :  —  . 
"  An  sntient  provertilal  adage  in  verse  sajs  — 
>  When  the  lonslie  owie  in  the  chimney  howl^ 


Canon  Oakeley,  in  his  CaHtoKe  Fhritt  (p.  1>, 
gives  a  poem  of  nearly  forty  lines  from  tbe  same 
source,  and  makes  other  frequent  quotations  fron 
it,  sometimes  (as  p.  104)  with  chapter  and  verse 
appended — "Jmth^ffia  Bor.  et  Aut.,  viii.  4." 

The  work  is  also  quoted  by  the  author  of  Wild 
Flowen  and  Oieir  Teachingi  (Bath,  1846),  p.  48, 
and  by  other  writers. 

I  have  ascertained  that  the  book  does  not  occur 
in  the  catalogue  of  the  Museum  Uhraiy,  London, 
nor  in  that  of  tbe  Bodleian  at  Ozfon.  CanoK 
Oakeley,  I  am  told,  can  give  no  information  about 
it,  except  that  the  quotations  were  sent  him  by  a 
friend.  Among  those  of  my  own  friends  who  are 
best  acquaintea  with  English  literature,  not  ona 
has  ever  met  with  this  mjst«ribus  volume. 

Can  tbe  quotations,  like  the  ''Old  Flay"  of  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  novels,  have  been  invented  for  the 
nonce  hy  some  person,  and  copied  without  inquiry 
by  subsequent  writers?  Dr.  Forstar'a  is  the  earliest 
mention  of  it  I  can  find.  He  was  not  a  littla 
eccentric  in  his  literaiy  productions.  Can  it  be  & 
caprice  of  his  P  W.  L.  N. 

Woodlaqds,  Biidgewater. 

[Seventeen  rean  ago  it  was  diacovered  by  oar  valned 
correapondeot  William  PikkeBtOr,  F.3.A,  that  tha 
Anthiiliigia  Bortalit  el  AiatTtilu  is  a  purely  Imaginarjr 
title  for  certain  piecea  of  prose  and  verse,  lbs  production 
of  Dr.  Fonter,  and  has  no  exinlence  save  in  hia  Cinli  of 
tilt  StoKoa  and  Paeitt  EiurttlaptaSa.  See  "  M.  &  (JJT  % 
1"  S.  ix.  66fl.]  iv/vWH^ 


4*  S.  VIL  F«B.  26, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUElllES. 


16 


Atsbt  Pediobbk.  —  John  Avery,  of  BodmiOj 
n.  Gorawftll,  married  leoult  Banr,  of  WvDacote, 
CO.  Devon.  A  cine  to  the  date  ia  fumiHhed  bv  tha 
fact  that  Isoulf 8  father,  John  Barrj,  died  in  1338. 
Had  thej  an;  children?  and  were  thej  the  an- 
CutdtB  of  Every  of  Wycreft  Caatle,  co.  Devon  ? 
I  may  add  that  Henry  Bsiry,  eldest  brother  of 
IsoulL  WM  bom  in  1614.  I  cannot  discover, 
tfaoogii  I  have  spared  no  pains,  to  what  family  of 
Aveira  this  John  Avery  belonged.  Your  coire- 
0|iondent  E.  W.  seems  to  be  versed  in  the  Avery 
pedi^Tee&  Can  he  Icindly  g^ve  me  any  clue  to  the 
aeeinon  of  a  questioD  for  which  I  have  exhausted 
tO  tfae  Heralds'  Visitatioiu  in  the  British  Museum, 
in  vnn  t  Hkbhkktkudb. 

Abttficiil  FLX'Fisaras. — Who  invented  this 
practice  P  Where  can  I  find  any  early  notices  of 
it  F  It  is  earlier  than  Dame  Juliana  Bemers,  who 
tells  ns  how  to  dub  "xii  fives  wvth  whiche  ye 
■hall  angle  to  ye  trought  and  grayllyng." 

PsLAonrs. 

Caslo  Ckitzlli.— Wanted,  particulars  of  the 
Mfo  and  works  of  Carlo  Ciivelli.  His  pictures 
bear  date  from  1468  to  1496,  and  he  is  said  to 
bave  been  the  scholar  of  Jacobello  del  Flore.  He 
u  a  rare  master  in  England,  though  our  National 
Oallety  poaaeises  four  of  his  works,  and  four  are 
BOW  exubited  at  Burlington  House,  three  of 
whicb  are  lent  by  Earl  Dudley. 

Joait  PiosoT,  JuN, 

fOinUi  i*  beliavcd  to  have  been  ■  natira  of  Tcnl^ 
ana  to  have  aauriahed  from  about  1450  till  1476.  Two 
^srea  by  this  artiat  are  In  tbe  church  of  S.  Sebaatiaoo 
at  Venice,  representing  S.  Fabbiano  and  tba  Marriage  uf 
B>CatlKtiDa;  and  one,  tba*-Aiiniiiiciatian,"iraa  boogbt 
at  tba  aale  of  £dTard  SoUy'a  eoUectioD  by  tha  lata  Lord 
Taunton.  Tba  latter  bean  tba  inacription  ■■  libartai 
XcdtriaaUea  Opna  CaroH  CrtvilU  Vaoetl,  1486."  Con- 
salt  Hicbael  Bryao's  Bid,  of  Paattn  awl  Eimaver$, 
«d.  \ij  Staoley,  1S49.] 

"Thb  COKCILIIB."— I  have  recently  met  with 
s  quarto  pamphlet  bearing  the  following  title :  — 

"  Tbe  CoDciliad  (  or  tfae  Triumpfa  of  Patriotitm.  A 
Poetn.  Translated  from  the  Latin  of  Tertioa  Qoirtus 
Qnintiu.  Tha  Third  Edition.  London  :  Printed  for  T. 
Pridden,  at  the  Feathers  in  Fleet  Street,  near  Fleet 
Bridge.    MDcoi-sii.- 

It  contains  twenty-eight  pages  of  print,  but 
Uiere  are  only  sixteen  lines  in  each  page.  The 
satire  appears  to  have  been  published  on  the 
occasion  of  the  elder  Pitt  receiving  his  pension  of 
3000J1  per  annum  soon  nfter  the  accession  of 
QeoKe  IIL  I  think  I  can  detect  Louis  of  France 
and  Madame  Pompadour   under  the  guise    of 

L and  P ,  and  Pitt  is  very  plainly  alluded 

to  under  the  same  contracted  form :  but  I  cannot 

add  names  to  the  foliovring:  Fauks —    C 1, 

a ,-  N ,  B ,t  A ,t  and  H .§ 

[■  GraaviQe.    f  Bedford.    J  Anson.    §  Haidwicke.] 


Tbe  letter  N  may  mean  the  Duke  of  Newcastle, 
and  H  may  be  Lord  Hardwickej  but  tha  vnae 
requires  B  to  mean  two  syllnblea,  and  conse- 
quently cannot  stand  for  the  Marquis  of  Bute- 
Can  any  reader  of  "N.  &  Q."  assign  names  to 
the  above  iniUals,  and  give  the  author  of  the 
poemF  T.T.  W. 

Stbarse  Fzb  paid  by  Irish  Bibhops. — I  have 
it  on  tbe  authority  of  a  distingnisbed  prelate  that, 
among  the  fees  exacted  from  an  Insn  bishop  on 
appoiutment  to  his  see,  was  one  of  twenty  or 
twenty-five  niineas  to  the  Lord- Lieu te can t's  cook. 
The  diseatabli^ment  of  the  Irish  church  has  conse- 
quently rendered  less  valuable  pro  taiito  tha  situa- 
tion of  tbe  Viceroy's  cordon  bitu.  Can  any  one 
mention  the  origin  of  this  strange  perquisite  r 

H.  A.  Kebbsot. 

Eldon  House,  Beiding. 

Frax  rsBD  ur  BuKinira  thr  Dbad. — In  a  de- 
scription of  the  burning  of  the  body  of  a  prince 
on  tne  banks  of  the  Amo,  near  Florence  (which 
took  place  Mme  time  last  year,  with  the  usual 
rites  of  'Hindoo  observance),  it  is  mentioned  that 
the  fire  to  light  the  funeral  pile  was  carried  in  a 
vessel  alongside  the  bodv.  Can  any  of  your 
readers  tall  me  if  such  is  tne  usual  practice  P  And 
if  so,  whMice  thefireinthereBselisobtainedP 
Cbeuatiok, 

Sahdxl  Foote. — Tbe  following  is  the  title  of 
a  MS.  formerlv  in  the  noesesnon  of  Richard  Heber, 
and  sold  at  ois  deatn.  It  wilt  be  found  in  the 
printed  Catalogue  (Pb  zi.  USS.  No.  4^)  i— 

"  Piety  in  Pattens.  Written  bj  S.  Foota,  Eiq.,  and 
firatperfbrmedlnbisPrimlllTeFBppetShoir."  113.  4to. 

Is  it  known  what  has  become  of  this  manu- 
script P  Oko.  C,  BoASX. 

[This  maniucTipt  was  purchased  by  Thomas  Bodd,tlie 
celebrated  bookadler,  for  ona  ihilUng'!] 

"  Habeas  Corpus  "  Aor.— Is  it  posuble  that 
the  story  told  of  the  mode  in  which  this  famous 
act  was  passed  is  founded  on  fact  P  I  recollect 
reading  that  tbe  teller  in  the  House  of  Lords  for 
theAyes,whenhesaw  a  very  corpulent  peer  pass, 
called  out  "There  go  two  lords,"  and  the  teller  for 
the  Noes,  not  perceiving  the  joke,  counted  lioo. 
Ot  course  if  the  names  of  the  peers  voting  were 
taken  down,  as  at  piesent,  such  a  mistake  would 
have  been  impossible;  but  in  the  daTS  of  tbe 
"  Merry  Uouaich  "  it  may  have  been  diiferently 
arranged.  The  bill  was  carried  by  a  muority  of 
one  only,  i .  3.  U. 


lop'a  woMb  (1680),  heaaye  :  "The  former 
parliament  had  paesed  a  rery  strict  act  for  the  dae  eie- 
cntiDD  of  tha  babeu  corpus  ;  which  was  indeed  all  thc^ 
did.    Itwaa  carried  bv  an  od-"  —"  -     -  ' 

-  ■      ■  -  ■  Lord  N 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[l*S.VILFeB.26,71. 


tdten.  Loid  Norriii,  bdng  «  muh  labjw;*  to  vvoofi, 
WWnatiitaU  timeaUUntiTatowhatke  wudcdng;  bo  a 
T«y  fal  lojtd  coming  in.  Lord  Grev  roonted  him  for  len, 
uaj^  atfiist,  but  seeing  Lord  Morris  hid  not  obaervcd 
it,  be  went  on  with  thia  mii-roofconing  of  t*D  :  ao  it  n» 
reported  lo  the  Uoiue,  and  declared  that  thev  who  were 
for  the  bill  wen  the  mtOoii^,  ttaongh  It  indeed  went  on 
the  othat  aide,  and  by  this  means  tlie  btU  passed."] 

Bauiad  :  "  Nunnre."— Rfty  jw»  a^  I  te- 
munbei  reading  t.  ballad  called  "  Kuttug,"  in 
wltich  ^.pewad  the  lollowing  Oaaui :  — 
» ■  ZoBBib  1 '  quoth  the  &imar, ;  when  is  Dick  f 
Tb*  night  is  comiag  on  as  quick, 

Tis  time  the  sheep  ware  pat  ia  ; 
But  I  must  fold  Chem,  I  sappoee, 
While  the  young  idle  raaeal  goes 
Witli  MaigTj  a-aMliiig.'" 

X  ttunk  I  uw  this  hi  a  Ladiea'  AhnuiBck  or 
Diuy  about  the  time  above  mentioiied.  Can  any 
of  yonr  conespondenta  tell  me  where  I  can  find 
tluB  ballad  P  loaxra  Hisusoir,  Jrr. 

ttl^Sooth  18th  StMet,  HilkiMphiB. 
Thb  FHcEinx  T&BOKB.  —  SebutJaa,  in  I%» 
Tempest,  exclaims :  — 

"XowIwillbeHeTe 
That  there  are  anicenu,  that  In  Arabia 
There  la  one  tree,  the  ptacenix'  Uirooe,  «■■  ph«niz 
At  this  bou  i^giAig  then." 
It  ia  two  decadee  nnoe  I  looked  into  &iodidii& 
Doea  he  coiuect  the  phceoix  with  any  particular 
tree  F    I  am  awue  that  ^fif  ia  both  the  Urd 
and  the  palm-tree.    But  did  Shakespeare  tefet  to 
an^  definite  legend  t    And  if  so,  where  may  it  be 
fbundf  Uaxbocseix. 


W.(l.) 
[Br  J.  Shirler,  CnrfnlioK   r^  4jax   tad    Ulintt, 
•eeneS.] 

Ghisesk  Ruddbbs  of  Ships. — Theie  have 
nomeioua  rhoinbwdal  holes  cut  in  them,  from  a 
notion  that  the  eddjing;  of  the  water  throuah 
them  inuiuta  an  addidonal  power  in  steering  the 
TeaeeLThe  GMnese  are  so  tboroughlj  practical 
a  nation,  that  I  am  induc«d  to  ank  if  this  coit- 
atructiaa  cf  rudder  has  erer  been  tdad  in  England, 
and  with  what  result  f  M.  D. 

Sastt  Wulvbar.— Where  shall  I  find  aome 
acoonnt  of  St.  Wulfran,  bishop  and  confessor, 
whose  tetival  day  is  Ootobu'  IS  P  I  hare  Ea^ed 
to  £«C0Ter  hint  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum  under  that 
day,  and  hare  consulted  many  other  booka  witl: 
nn  equ^  wont  of  aiiccew.  Be  must  not  he  con- 
founded with  h<B  naineaahe  St  Wulftui,  arch- 
hiah(^  of  Sens,  whose  feaat  ia  March  20.  Aa  I 
^tr  aouM  of  your  readers  may  doubt  the  exist- 
ence lA  the  Sb  Wulfsan  concerning  whom  I  am 
anxions  for  information,  I  beg  to  refer  to  the 


calendar  published  by  Mr.  J.  J.  Bond  in  kb 
valuable  Mandy-Book  o/*  Rtik*  aad  TabUt  for 
v»ifyi»g  DatM,  p.  166.  A.  ft  V.  P. 

Sbtes  Serhohb  oh  tbh  Sicbaxeitt,  1631.— 
I  am  very  aniious  to  ascertain  the  name  of  the 
author  and  other  bibliographical  particulaiH  of  tha 
'""owing  book,  my  copy  being  without  a  title- 
^  _ ).  It  is  12mo,  pp.  384.  Seven  sermons  on 
the  Sacrament    of  tne    Lord's  Bupper    occupy 

p.  1-278;  a  prayer,  279-282;  a  Uiauksgiviog, 

^286;  then  comes  a  separate  titio  — 

«  A  XusUficatioD  at  the  Geetue  of  Kneeling  in  ths  Act 
□(  receiving  the  Sacrunent  of  the  Idid's  Snppai.  Lon- 
don :  Printed  by  £Hz.  AHde  for  Robert  Allot.  tSSl." 
(pp.  £89-861.) 

On  p.  317  the  author  jefen  to  his  previons  tna- 
tise,  entitled  the  Threefold  BteoUiion. 

W.  c.  a 

[Tba  asthoT  of  thsM  woA*  Is  3tAa  De^son,  vieai  it 
St  Hary'a,  Baadiiw,  and  ofawjais  lo  Kiog  James  L 
Wood  (^l*«B.  Oxm.  iL  439,  edit.  ISIG),  wholaa  given  a 
list  of  his  works,  speaks  of  him  sa'a  learned  man,  and 
wall  read  in  thsological  aatbon."  He  died  in  tba  latlar 
(Dd  of  January.  1628-9,  and  wss  borisd  ia  St  Hary^ 
chorch,  Reading.'] 

Stoiti  Axubs  is  EKeLTSH  CnmcRn. — 2b 
Haydn's  Dictionan/  ofDatee  (p.  96)  I  find  "  it  was 
decided  in  1846,  by  the  Court  of  Arcbe^  that  itoM 
dJfars  were  not  to  be  erected  in  English  ehnrehee." 
Can  you  give  the  reason  why  F  C^nw*. 

[This  refers  to  the  celebrated  jndnnent  of  Sir  Herbert 
Jeoner  Fast,  who,  in  the  ease  of  fulknei  «.  USchMd 
and -Steam,  ralwl  that  an  immoraUe  bIom  itnetoie 
vhkA  bad  been  plaoed  in  tba  oharch  of  tba  Hotr 
Sapnlchn  at  CaMbtk^  was  not  a  ooananion  Ubfa 
witUa  the  meaaiag  of  Iha  rabrie.  Sea  the  ndgmssit  at 
length  to  Kabertaoa's  EcdeiMaticid  M^ortt,  i.  IM.) 

Tsmxis'  "O&nB  Hxrbau.":  Niua  » 
Puna. — I  should  be  glad  to  know  some  Barti* 
culars  of  this  worl^  which  waa  pubKdMd  in  169(^ 
and  seems  to  be  one  of  the  earliMt  of  Engli^ 
herbala.  It  is,  of  ooiirae,  in  black  Utter,  and  is 
illustrated  by  very  quaint  woodcuts — some  of 
which  do  duty  several  times  for  very  difi'erent 
plants.  Who  was  Treveiis;  and  is  this  the  ori- 
ainal  f<»n  of  the  work,  or  a  traaalation  F  I  hara 
been  unable  to  identify  the  following  plants,  and 
abaU  be  glad  of  help;  — 

"  Li<igmi  onMrt'f.  Geoa-brll  or  stjdic-wsrt.  GoOS^U 
or  bcodo;e  is  sa  herbe  convn  jnoigb,    Tbe  rot*  of  it  ia 

l^ke  a  goes  bjrll  |  and  the  leves  baa  Ifke  the  Isvea  of 

"  Palacium  leperi,  \  hares  nalajs  !  Js  an  herbe  lykq 
spnrge  I  but  it  hath  longer  and  rvper  hTes  |  and  is  leved 
lykefteeU  and  the  rote1j-ke  kneholmer.tunuj  |  and  It 

"       "         '        ""gon  [r 

"Sra. 

icbe  hym.    Soido  call  it  artetyke." 
The  former  ia  poaaibly  an  emdium  or  geraniuss, 
from  the  description.    The  sow-thistle  {SomAm  0 


benth 

yf  tbeaare  ooma  under  it  |  be 
torn'    ■  "  


but  a  teed  beir  Ivke  fr^on  [fio- 
It  is  called  haw*  ft'—     "*" 


4*8.VH.FBB.!fi,7i.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIEa 


«kraeeut)  vu  fmrnerlT knawrt  lu  "htre's  polnce," 
Imt  cAiiDot  be  inTcnded  above.    Jahbs  Bbitish. 

Kbit. 

Tav  Vkto  A.T  Papal  Er^Bcnoits.— Hilmu),  in 
hi*  Lat»  Otrutimit!/  (yi.  407,  ed.  1867),  ieieiia 
tbe  Iftw  retatinfr  to  papal  eterttoDB  which  Gre- 
Kcay  X.  procured  to  be  enacted  by  the  Uouncil  of 
JUram^  ''to  secare  tbe  pspacy  from  tbe  scondale 
inich  had  prec«ded  his  own  eLecdoa."  But  I  do 
tMt  find  fhim  that  same  ku^ed  woric  how  it 
came  to  pns  tbat  France,  Ocnuany,  and  Spain 
exercised  tbe  power  of  the  veto  agiuuBt  tbe  elec- 
fkm  of  any  patticabr  cardinal  to  tbe  papacy. 
What  is  In^ra  «f  tbe  origw  of  tbis  poweiF 
DecB  tt  atill  enetP  Aad  if  ao,  how  baa  it  been 
tftctod  by  tb«  rewmt  changes  in  the  relaticns 
betwera  ae  forMwaetita  named  and  tbe  papal 

IhmxakB  o?  Wbdswoo!)  Wakb.— I  have  an 
Inkstand  of  Wedgwood's  manufacture,  consUting 
of  a  aemi-globe  anpported  by  three  dolphins  on  a 
flat  triangular  baae.  In  tbe  centre  of  the  aemi- 
^lobe  a  a  conical  resiel  for  ink,  with  a  perfora- 
tion for  Iba  pen  when  not  in  use.  On  one  side  of 
tbe  ink-Teaael  ia  a  drculnr  hole  nearly  an  inch  in 
diameter,  and  on  tbe  other  aide  ia  a  tbimble- 
ab^ped  cavity.  Between  these  are  three  perfora- 
tion! half  an  incb  wide,  and  three  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  wide.  I  shall  feel  obliged  to  any  correspon- 
dent of  "N.  &  Q."  wbo  will  tell  m«  the  jrarpoee 
«f  tbeae  petf<»»tioD8.  H.l). 


UUSH  CAS  AND  KODDT. 

(3^  S.  Ti.  11^  195;  i*  S.  Ti.  645;  rii.  23.) 

It  i*  an  arttnifeMiiff  drcanurtKace,  while  it  proTea 
tiie  real  rdue  of  "  N.  ft  Q.*,  tbat  s  v«bicle  whicb 
was  in  mrnmon  nse  Jn  Dablin  until  a  eompars- 
tinly  Me  period  oamwt  be  property  dee<^bed 
witliOTit  a  reference  to  its  piq^.  Eren  onr  old 
and  teamed  coQtiibntor  Asoba  is  in  error  when 
if  wH»6  of  tbe  noddy,  erideDtly  mirisd  by  tbe 
KMioi  of  Wedeha  cf  Ireitnid  Sixt^  Yeten  Ago. 
Om  firnnds  at  lite  other  side  of  the  Channel  are 
▼Sly  learned  in  the  ancient  history  of  Ireland, 
thoBgk  thej^  seem  to  be  quite  ignorant  of  its 
■odsf  affiiin.  Leet  they,  at  a  future  period, 
may  deaeriba  tbe  Oat  or  tbe  noddy  as  state  caN 
(ikgw  dt  King  Heber,  tbe  "Irish  sea  qneen,"  or 
some  otber  equally  fahuloua  character,  I  feel  dis- 
poeed  to  ask  the  Editor  of  "  N.  &  Q.''  for  a  little 
■pace,  ao  that  t  may  set  tin  question  at  rest  for 
•»er, 

Busli,  te  f  Amtto  CWnoMi  (17e&),  speaking  of 
Doblin,  flXpresely  states  that  — 

"Tbev  bare  an  odA  ktod  of  taacliniea  bera,  t>iit  Is 
cdled  tha  noddy,  whMi  la  nottiii^  oorc  than  an  old 
castofl  <MM-bonc  ebaUa  or  nhsir." 


Twias,  in  bis  Tour  w  Ireland  (Load.  1776), 
aays:  — 

nuij  e[nR]e.borw  two-wbc«t«d  i^abe^ 
!_._._  j_  .i_  _. !_  0jyi„,  tbtywa 

The  Trmieli  of  Twies  were  very  nnpopalar,  and 
aciMrding  to  the  system  of  tbe  critice  of  the  day, 
were  immediately  ridiculed  by  An  Htroie  Epistle 
to  B.  Twias,  Esq.,  from  Donna  Teresa  of  Murda, 
a  lady  mentioned  in  his  Traceti  in  ^kuh,  aad  in 
this  epistle  we  find  the  noddy  first  noticed  ia  versa 
aa  follows  :— 


■n  wafti  thee  all  *Iod« 


In  Diiwic  vebicla  to  hl , 

High-tow  machine  that  beara  plcbeito  vlght 
To  distant  tf  a-honn  or  tuaereiJ  rite : 
Slill  SB  it  moves,  the  proud  pivilion  noda, 
A  obsise  by  mortali,  koddt  termed  by  gods." 
In  An  Heroic  jbuwtt  from  Mr.  Twias  ke  ikm 
descril>es  the  car  :~ 


might  ■! 


Tovi 

A  downy  mattnu  oo  tbe  oar  ia  Md, 
The  rev  rend  father  moiiDta,  and  tender  maid; 
Some  back  M  back,  Bone  side  by  aide  ara  plac'd. 
The  nvish'd  miid  by  panting  vouth  embrac'd. 
By  doiens  Ihtie,  t^  many  a  Siuday  mom, 
WMi  dawltog  leg*  ttraJoTlal  crowd  it  bomat 
OIoMarf  tb^  ss^  <c  Bewth'i  a^rtng  brew. 
Or  LcKlip,  amiling  aa  tbe  straam  bcloK. 
When  eage  and  cbea^iaeu  would  thy  Twia  engage^ 
Can  ha  preferr'd  to  noddiee  or  to  stag*. 
Oft  on  a  ear  Bsvindna  u«  ne  ride 
From  Tred*gfa'st«r*n«l(i^hts  Terdcat^A*."* 
In  A  Tmr  Oirmi^  IrAnd  (Lond.  1780),  Hkt 
author  tells  ns  — 

■■  Tram  tha  ftathA  bahiaaa  of  the  im«ts  haAiiSy- 
•MtiMa  anaerefraqDeat  In  prepoitkm  tfaanln  LoaAan. 
•Bd  BSd^-ebaifS  an  STMjwbete  as  oenracn  ai  ataW 
StJamea's.  Tlieybaraanoddklndofiln^hDmckilM 
ben,  called  Boddfaa,  so  larafferBbtr  eras?,  and  vraa  dan- 
geroaa,  as  to  afford  matter  of  sarpiiie  that  they  an  per- 
mftted  to  Iw  nwd '.  tVeir  Ibie  Is  half  tbe  price  of  a  eoaeb. 
The?  an  Bothiag  mors  tbaa  an  cM  ons-bcne  Chaise  or 
obair,  with  a  stool  Axe4  tipoB  tin  shiAs  jut  brfm  the 
MM,  OB  whkh  the  dri  Fer  dts,  Just  above  tbe  ramp  of  Ins 

The  Act  for  paving  and  ligbtiiig  tbe  streets  <i 
Dnblia  was  only  passed  in  1774,  ao  we  must  sot 


□  another  place  he  says  ;— 


It  of  olsaaMnew  Wbicb,  IT  ni)t  ta> 


]nrimu  to  ihecredit,  matt  a«ds*bteily  be  se  to  tin  hsaHh 
of  this  popokm  d^i  fer  tt  eaanot  be  dt^ed  (baa,«zant 
tlw  fnr  new  st^ae(^  wMch  an  paved  and  flagged  tta 
those  of  LoaasB,  tbe  wbe)«  of  it  <*  abomiaatdy  any  aad 
iliMieiT." 

So  it  seema  to  haye  been  better  to  have  ssed 
those  dangerous  yebides  than  submit  to  tbe  dis- 


■  These  epistles  will  be  foond  in  the  first  and  ftratfh 
volames  of  the  Rtpoiitury,  a  CallecHoK  nf  Faglliet  PfKM, 
edited  by  J.  Eeed,  and  pablisbed  by  Dilly  In  1790. 


164 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


[4»B.TlI.Fni.!6,'7l. 


agreeableneSB  of  walking  sudi  ttreets,  among 
mat  the  writer  calla  "  wretched  barridana, 
coveted  with  tattered  weeds,  tha  moBt  horrid  raiM- 
creanta  that  evar  degraded  human  iiatuie."  Fur- 
ther he  sajB : — 

"The  hiwken  af  oem  and  clean«n  of  ihoca  fill  np 
the  meunie  of  appflrwit  povarty  in  Dublin,  The  filth  of 
thdi  bodiei  igoflcntiv^  and  their  maDiwr  shocking;  tfa'' 
outngM  upon  dcceoc;  dligait  you  at  ererjr  comer,  u 
their  Mveral  ciiea,  infinitalj'  mora  aoDorous  tbao  on  _. 
tingle  in  yonr  tan  with  bH  tha  anraging  variatln  of  the 

Of  the  ear  he  tells  ub  that — 


Tonnd  block*,  iboDt  twenty  Inche*  In  diameter.  Thej  are 
fratjoently  nwd  as  vehicles  fur  the  common  p«o[de  on 
their  pvdea  of  pleasure,  when  a  t>ed  or  mat  Is  placed  on 
the  oar  and  hBlf-a-do«n  people  sit  on  it,  with  their  l^i 
bangini;  a  ftw  Inches  from  the  ground.  They  are  gene- 
rally dragged  a  foot-pux,  and  are  U  ridicaloni  a  chalae- 


It  ma;  be  aa  well  (o  obserre  bere  that  anolbei 
edition  of  tbia  work  waa  publiabed,  at  Dublin  I 
Boapect,  but  I  do  not  know  either  the  date  or 
place,  as  mjr  copj  has  imfortonately  lost  its  title- 
page  ;  but  it  only  differs  from  A  Tour  through 
Ireland  br  being  entitled  the  QtmpUle  Irxih  Tra- 
velltr,  and  adorned  with  woodcuts.  Of  course 
tbe'  chaiBe-marine  and  noddj  are  mentioned  in 
the  aame  words  in  both  puhlicatjona. 

In  a  f  e^  rare  work  entitled  A  General  SMory 
of  Irebmd  at  Ut  Antitnt  and  Modem  State,  written 
br  John  Angel  and  published  in  Dublin  in  1781, 
tne  writer  tells  ns  tbat — 

**  There  are  800  backney-coachea  and  aboat  400  Ndan- 
chain,  the  ralei  of  which  are  nearly  tha  aame  as  in 
London,  and  iingle^Jitirw  ctutiaaa  and  can  are  naed  on 
parties  of  pleasaie." 

Angel  being  n  sacntarf  to  the  Dublin  Societj, 
which  hod  been  then  for  some  years  endearooring 
to  introduce  arts  and  mannfactures  into  Ireland, 
hii  work  is  in  a  rather  dignified  style,  conse- 

ritly  he  does  not  condescend  to  use  the  semi- 
g  terms  of  "  noddy  "  or  "  chuae-marine  " ;  he 
merely  calls  them,  what  they  were  in  fact— ungls- 
horse  chaises  and  can.    In  1806  Sir  John  Carr 

tablisbed  the  Stranger  in  Ireland.  Of  the  noddy 
e  says; — 

"Tbiscarriags  is  now  somewhat  rare.  It  is  an  old 
battered  ainnle-harse  chaise,  with  Ihe  head  np,  having  a 
seat  for  Pal  upon  the  shaft*,  who  is  lo  placed  that  be 
retaliates  opon  hb  passenger  for  the  ramp  of  tha  horse 
being  placed  close  to  bit  very  month.  As  this  macbius 
move*  it  nods  :  and  hence,  as  tbe  Tilsh  are  always  de- 
soiipCive  in  their  eipressionB,  I  pregnme  its  name." 

A  new  vehicle  called  a  jingle  hod  by  this  time 
Appeared  in  Dublio.    Sir  John  tells  us: — 


after  tbe  doom  and  the  upper  sides  and  roof  ai«  remove^ 
and  is  monnted  ray  high  npon  foor  large  slender  whetk 

lis  motion  produces  a  rattling  noise,  which  furnishes  ila 
name:  it  is  drawn  by  one  miserable-looking  horse,  whose 
fal«  it  is  frequently  to  pall  aHec  him,  npon  a  smart  trot, 
his  driver  and  six  passengers.  Tbe  principal  stand  of 
these  carriages  is  at  the  end  of  Bagot  Street ',  they  are 
numbered,  and  tbe  drivers  are  subject  to  tbe  control  of 
the  police  for  Improper  behaviour.  They  generally  raa 
to  the  Pidgeon-boDss  and  to  the  BInckrock,  and  bach 
again.  Tbe  fare  Is  sixpence  only  to  each  person.  Tbeaa 
carriages,  wretched  as  they  look,  are  very  convenient, 
and  persons  of  the  first  respectability  frequently  rid*  in 

Tbe  jing-Ie,  then,  was  no  other  tbao  an  old 
hackney-coach  that  had  been  divested  of  its  upper 

parts ;  while  a  noddy  was  merely  a  singte-horM 
chaise  with  an  added  seat  on  the  shaft  for  the 
driver.  Being  a  public  carriage,  it  consequentlj 
was  not  driven  by  the  person  who  sat  ia  it,  aa 
Addison  tells  us.  Tbe  "one-borse  chay  "  is  now, 
I  believe,  only  known  in  England  by  the  comic 
song  which  relates  tbe  laughable!  adventures  of 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  fiubb  when  they  used  one  at  Brigh- 
ton instead  of  a  bathing-machine — a  vehicle,  bj 
the  way,  not  so  common  in  Ireland  aa  it  oogbt  t» 
be.  We  here  see  the  fallacy  of  Ub.  RBnxoxii^ 
who  tells  us  tbat— 

"  „  the  old  public  cars  called  Jingles,  which  were  modem 
or  improved  noodle*  and  were  the  preeunors  of  the 
present  covered  an£  outaide  can  peculiar  to  Dublin." 

Tbe  author  of  Sketehei  of  Ireland,  equally  u 
absurdly,  lells  us  tbat  the  car  "  waa  succeeded  bj 
the  noddy,"  for 

"Our  ons-horse  vehicles  have  always  been  peculiar  to 
ourselves,  and  were  In  use  long  before  anything  of  a 
similar  kind  was  Introduced  Inio  England." 

We  have  seen  the  car  described  in  A  Tow 
through  Ireland  as  a  chaise-marine,  bat  it  waa 
more  generally  termed  a  Riagsend  car,  from  tbe 
place  to  which  it  was  most  frequently  driven.  It 
had  been  improved  from  tbe  davs  when  it  waa 
covered  with  "  a  bed  or  mat '' ;  it  had  now  springs 
and  cushions,  and  was  termed  a  jauntin{f«arj  and 
it  is  thus  described  by  Sit  John : — 

"  Upon  the  road  we  saw  several  eartiages  peculiar  t« 
the  country.  That  which  struck  me  most  was  tbe  Jaunt- 
ing car,  an  open  carriage,  mounted  upon  two  small  wheels, 
drawn  by  one  horse,  in  which  tbe  company  sit  back  to 
back,  and  benoe  the  Irish,  in  badinage,  ciU  it  an  Irish 
eif-o-nt )  wbilst,  on  the  oUier  hand,  aaniideiing  the  poal- 
tion  of  the  parties  and  of  (he  coachman,  who  is  elevated 
in  (Vont,  I  have  heard  it  more  appropriately,  though  lea* 
delicately,  nominated  the  etU-i-ti},  This  carriage  Is  veij 
convenient  and  easy,  and  will  carry  six  persons  beaidM 


In  1808  there  was  published  in  London  a  work 
entitled  Jift/  Pocket-Book.*    It  was  merely  a  tra- 


vestie  upon  Sir  John  Carr's  ^ 

Tbereupou  tbe  ill-advised  knisbt  prosecuted  tba 

publiabers,  Messrs.  Hood  &  Sharpe,  for  libe^ 

By  Edward  Dubois.]  "'"■'cS 


4*3.  Til.  Fm.  26, ■71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


MtimatuR  bis  Aamapa  at  200(M;  The  trtfa  ( 
OD  at  GuiUhsll,  befoie  Lord  Ellraiboroiigh,  and 
created  a  great  aenution  in  the  titerarj  world. 
The  jurj,  led  bj  his  lordship's  charge,  without  a 
inoiuBnt's  hesitation  returned  a  xer^t  for  the 
defendaols,  thus  establiahing  the  rights  of  criticieoi, 
mai  so  the  knight  got  nothing.  At  page  26  of 
Jfy  Poektl  Borne  there  is  a  picture  of  a  nodd  j,  and 
at  page  1  another  of  a  jaonting  car,  a  large 
damsj  rehide  as  it  then  was,  heuig  in  a  transi- 
tion state  ham  the  lUngaend  car  to  the  neat 
modem  j  anutin^'car. 

I  bare,  probsblv,  the  la^st  collection  of  prints 
relating  to  Ireland  belonging  to  any  private  gen- 
tleman, and  I  am  able  to  trace  in  them  the  Kings- 
end  car,  in  ite  different  phases,  up  to  the  modem 
Citing-car.  One  of  them,  being  a  view  of  Drog- 
B,  first  published  in  the  Europam  Magadne, 
■ctoall;  represents  a  part;  of  four  on  a  Kingsend 
«ar,  in  the  ve^  spot  where  Twiss  b  represented 
aajring  in  bia  Heroic  Aniwer : — 

"  Oft  oa  a  car  BiiTlndiu  saw  ma  ride 
Fmm  Tredagb'a  loiren  along  his  nrdant  air." 

I  remember  perfectly  well  the  old  common  car 
of  Ireland,  as  we  used  to  term  the  Ringsend  car, 
with  its  wheels  formed  of  one  solid  piece  of  wood. 
All  the  week  it  may  have  carried  any  kind  of 
goods,  but  on  Sundays,  covered  with  a  bed  or 
gnilt,  it  always  took  a  party  of  pleasure  out  on  a 
jaunt  It  is,  I  believe,  quite  extinct  now ;  but  an 
old  lady,  lately  deceased,  who  was  on  a  visit  at 
the  house  of  a  countrv  magisbate  in  the  county 
of  Down  (which  has  been  termed  the  Yorkshire 
of  Ireland)  in  the  year  1800,  has  often  told  me 
that  the  ladies  of  the  family  alwavs  rode  on  a 
common  or  Ringsend  car  to  church;  tne  gentlemen 
were  of  course  on  horseback.  Her  atory  is  ciiri- 
ooaly  illustrated  by  another  print  that  I  have, 
entitled  "  The  TinDihioch  Road,  with  a  View 
of  Bray-Town  and  Head,"  dated  1781,  in  which 
three  ladies,  dressed  in  the  extreme  of  ^e  fashion 
of  that  day,  are  represented  riding  on  a  Kingseud 
car.  The  bone  of  the  car  ia  led  by  a  little  boy, 
who  walks,  dressed  as  a  servant  or  jwgej  while  the 
gentleman  of  the  party  rides  a  slanted  horse. 

Lever  tells  ua  a  tale  of  an  old  woman  going  to  a 
ball  on  one  of  these  can;  but  there  was  nothing 
strange  in  that,  fori  have  frequently  seen  it  done; 
nay  more,  I  have  actually  seen  in  Ireland  a  swell 
of  the  period  going  to  a  ball  in  a  wheelbarrow. 
The  night  was  very  wet,  and  the  two  miles  of 
road  he  had  to  traverae  were  veiy  dirty ;  but  by 
the  Md  of  several  cloaks  be  waa  kept  perfectly 
drr,  and  when  tamed  out  at  the  entrance  to  the 
ball-room  with  shouts  of  good-hnmoured  laughter, 
hii  feet  were  aa  clean  as  if  he  had  come  in  a  coach. 
WiLUUi  FlBKEBIOII,  F.S.A. 

I  have  a  more  than  boyish  remembrance  of  the 
moMjf,  to  far  back  as  1791,  when  I  first  becama 


acquainted  with  Dublio.  It  was  «  low-uzed 
pbaeton,  with  a  hood  lareer  than  its  body,  dirty 
and  dilapidated,  shabby  and  shaky;  itsAutomedon 
seated  on  a  bar  in  front,  decked  in  a  loose  cotk- 
more  and  rusty  caubeeu,  and  btlabourin^  a  gar' 
ron,  the  flesh  whereof  would  not  have  sufficed  for  a 
hungry  Parisian's  breakfast  Neither  have  I  for- 
gotten its  contemporary,  the  four-wheeled  j'inglt, 
with  its  six  passengers,  and  similarly  charioteered 
and  horsed.  I  once  had  the  honour  of  a  spill 
bom  one  of  these  accommodatdng  vehicles,  W 
tweeu  Dublin  and  Seapoiot  E.  L.  S, 

In  Glasgow  the  noddy  was  the  common  con- 
veyance aa  late  aa  1820-30  for  pec^  not  po»- 


tban  a  hired  post-t^aise,  although  perhaps  nbt  so 
convenient;  being  not  unlike  the  Dublin  "rg. 
car,"  but  more  like  a  car  than  an  omnibus. 

The  noddy  had  two  wheels,  was  box-shaped, 
and  was  entered  at  tbe  back.  Private  noddies 
were  often  kept,  but  theb  ownera  generally  pre- 
ferred the  term  "  sociable  "  to  noddy. 

W.  O.  D. 


P.S.  The   Ola!«ov 
Olasgow  cab. 


noddy  " 


I   the   embryo 


SIB  WILLIAM  ROGER,  ENT. 
(4**  S.  L  468;  iv.  167,  223,  342,  546  :  v.  97,  214, 
326;  TL482,6n3;  vu.  82.) 
Dr.  RoasB  seeks  to  excuse  himself  for  having 
in  1867  claimed  to  be  the  representative  of  the 
musician  Roger,  in  that  he  "  iMlieved  my  state- 
ment contained  in  Mr.  H.  Laing's  volume  published 
tbe  year  previously,"  and  hopes  his  "  mishap  may 
be  A  warning  to  all  senealogists,"  &o.  Now  I 
submit  that  in  Mr.  Laing's  work  is  contuned 
neither  genealogical  statement,  nor  stetement  of 
mine  of  any  Ifind  whatever,  my  name  being  merely 
mentioned  as  that  of  the  person  who  communicated 
the  casts ;  nav,  more,  I  am  free  to  declare  that  I 
never,  directly  or  indirectly,  suggested  to  Dr. 
RoeiB  bis  descent  from  this  musicum,  nor  did  he 
communicate  with  me  at  alt  in  regard  to  tbe 
matter.  The  truth  is  Dk.  Ro»br  has  faUen  into 
his  own  trap,  and  does  not  exactly  know  how  to 
extricate  himself.  Bmc  ilia  lachryma.  It  is 
imposnble  to  follow  the  remarks  of  one  who  evi- 
dently does  not  in  the  least  understand  that 
about  which  he  writes.  For  example:  "The  nar- 
rative of  the  crests."  he  says  (referring  to  a  d»< 
scription  of  an  old  cnarter  seal  containing  t,  shield 
and  supporters  with  exterior  ornaments) — "  Den- 
char's  book  of  firitiBh  creitt " — (when  it  bos  been 
distinctly  pointed  ont  that  the  stone  sculpture  found 
at  Conpaigrange  conaiats  of  a  lAuU  without  any 
ciest)  :  "  No  Scottish  family  of  Roger  or  Biogon  , 
is  named  aa  n^ng  nwn  a  entt."    What  faimlT;  ■  ^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


t**  8.  VII.  Fib.  26.  71. 


eyer  posaessed  m  crett  without  the  right  to  bear 
unsr  Most  pec^e  know  that  mwiy  fsmilisB 
poBseMed  the  nght  to  bear  ariiia  without  the  right 
of  ueing  a  crest,*  bat  never  the  coDverse,  Bud 
when  was  there  pny  Scotch  famil}'  of  the  name 
of  liogeTB  P  Ah  a  ^ueatioii  of  fact  the  arme  coa- 
tWMed  on  the  Coupnrgrange  Kulpture  are  givea 
IB  Deuchat'a  heraldic  work — the  onlj  heraldic 
work,  in  the  proper  sense  of  the  term,  with  which 
he  was  evOT  coanected,  via.  The  BritiA  Serald,\ 
in  3  Tola,  quarto,  hj  Thomas  Kohaon,  Sundra- 
l«ad  1830.  So  the  alltwed  "report"  of  Mi. 
Ueuchftr,  " after  a  seaicli/'  "that  the  Coupar' 
ffi^ge  family  had  no  cre^  or  coat  of  anna  "  must 
IB  thenatuieofthioga.be  jiwvjSctHin.  Ds.Bo8XB 
Bays  Mr.  Deuchar  was  "  altogether  iacapaUe  ot 
peipetradng  an  heraldic  for^peiy,"  while  ia  the 
veiy  next  eeotenoe  he  deeciibes  the  ooat  fabii' 
oated  by  Douchar  far  his  fa^er  Uie  Rer.  Jamei 
Roger.  Thia  he  tells  na  «xbiUta  "  a  dexl«r  hand 
bedding  a  crouer  aunuoundn^  a  ahi^d  with 
^MLDgea  entirely  differ^t  from  uoae  of  the  casts," 
»  &et  which  would  rather  go  to  authentioate, 


*  "  The  creat  appean  to  hare  been  a  mark  of  great 
dl^l^  and  eatata — mom  Bi>,»rbapa.thanwas  implKd  In 
thetiaerigM  tote«ianDs"(Ho<ii«gii,p.47).  "Cnsta 
wen  originally  eonfined  to  a  Ibw,  and  giv^  bj  rmil 
grant,  and  even  to  tliis  di^  there  are  MvenI  old  familiea 
irlio  baT«  narer  lued  them." — Fariier'B  Glottary,  p.  98. 

f  Deochar^  duore  in  this  pnbUeatloa,  which  mined  iti 
tmjeettlr  Bobam,  abd  wUai  was  lAat  Ilr.  Daodiar 
himeelf  oontidend  hia  gnat  hmMts  elliM— oanalated  In 
fUniafaing  all  ^  Seotdh  demaiit  which  it  contains.  In 
tidat*  tMnd  tha  *mu  af  tn  aapawte  frnrn  irf  111  i 
aammaef  Bosg^alsetbe  HciMoaa  aaat  MmolheauWl 

SDewiharlbrUMtaUwritfDR.CBARLSsBMn.  Fau 
Aeae  (obvlonily  anlhentle)  are  iudio*t«d  aa  bdongtng 
to  Scotch  ramlUn  of  Hia  name,  Oun^  Mlhool  apeciac 
dwtgnation.  Hr.  DenCbar'a  stannar  dl  procMdtiig  wa 
AH.  iTbett  appIM  t«  «•  fttnirii  a  coat  dt  Htnm,  be 
giasMd,  without  leAteMt  te  aeL70n0fflc»-i.tbefmiB- 
ticni  of  whidi  he  ooaated  It  hi*  peradiar  privilege  to 
nanrp— aoch  a  coat  aa  hi  hiaj  ndgDMnt  be  deamad  amtable, 
and  lAlA  ha  engraveS  aceordfiigl]'.  St  than  recorded 
aoA  eott  aa  Jt  JMo  iofat  vy  tba  tadtvidnl.  Uf 
aotborftv  ftr  tfata  MUanant  ta  ana  at  Mr.  DviiebM^  prto- 
olpal  awlilail,  wha  baa  ft*  mmj  ran  bean  a  aaai- 
engraver  ia  the  (Mef  oownMtW  o^  of  Soodaad.  1 
believe7%i  SrilM  J'eraUaboondsinaacbcoata :  an  much 
for  Da.  Sooer's  "UnSpahle.*  Db.  Boosb's  acconat 
Of  Ui  Iktbar's  coat  aftamlal  la  not  Mtfte^  accimta. 
the  mrenBdsendMMB,  like  Ua  ana,  ftadscMeBotimn 
of  the  dignM?  of  ratnoM  HioMtO'*  Had  "  alitmed  «o  he  On 
rapnacMadve"— 1.  af  Biwer  tba  NwmaaCoBBt  of  aiolf  I 
S.  of  Ifa^er  Kahop  of  St.  Andrewa,  aon  ot  the  Eari  of 
I.elcieter.  The  hand  boldii^  fbe  eroalet  ia  oofned  t^ou 
tba  epbc^wl  aeal  of  Btahop  Bogv.  The  Bamtie-de-hl 
caaMneaon  tba  ahldd  rmraawta  hh  aappaatd  Nwioaa- 
naMkntnothw.  "LaB^"  (tbaking,<.a.  «f  fficityV 
1-Eetta,  tba  ^bnrdt,  i.t.\La  BMep  of  St  Andrewf! 
Tbaaa  va^aHta  date  tnm  tbe  v«ar  of  grace  1830.  Tbe 
ooat  contained  on  the  scnlptnred  alona  at  Coapaisrange, 
and  Ibo  finiad  in  IKiM,  wn  gntatet,  0&r<Mrf  vOhiit  a 
iontos  by  tte  I4«a  OBce  at  CkHtAwrgta  air—  ^  - 
iritfate  the  pimM  eeatary  te  a  WMd-<manbatit 
gv*  of  the  BBMO  of  An^n 


than  disprove  the  antheoticity  of  the  latter,  inw- 
much  as  that  the  coM  fraaaed  by  Doudar  for  tie 
fsAer  of  D&  KwtkB  is  a  btown  and  admowledged 
forgery.  Ta  tUe  air  late  fUhet  alludee  in  a 
Irtter  written  to  me  on  October  33, 1648 :— "  Bat 
iaataacee  are  aat  isk  wlmi»  t^  aaate  family, 
throv)^  whim  or  otherwise,  bai  adonted  diil'erent 
arms.  Your  ancle  of  Uaaino  at  oae  time  invented 
a  new  beaiii^  fat  hiBiself,  «UBd  a  grocw  in 
Perth  of  the  Kama  of  Roger  had  a  woaws 
eighia^  BBgar  (how  represented  Z  do  not  know) 
\xt  for  his  arma.  Both  foond  theu  way  into 
Deoehar's  book  of  blason^  which  ahowa  the 
worthleaaaesB  of  some  of  these  bodu  at  least." 
The  grocer's  coat  ia  not  reoorded  in  TAa  SrifM 
Sermid:  that  fabrioated  for  tlie  &lber  of  Ita. 
RoftBR  is,  however,  given  as  a  gniiune  coat  annorial 
wiUi  every  dmunatsDoe  of  aatheotiaty.  Db. 
RoesB  speaka  of  the  "  non-ezisting  MaryweU." 
Can  Dr.  Koqxb  pdnt  to  an  instaoce  of  a  man  de- 
scribed in  an  autboBlie  document  as  "  of  "  a  plKoe 
which  had  not  an  existence  F  I  have  only  to  add 
that  the  individual  whom  Db.  Rosbk  deacribea  aa 
"a  John  Playfair"  yim  the  father  of  the  late 
Patrick  Playfwr  of  DalmamoCh,  Esq.,  West 
India  merchant  in  Glasgow,  and  the  husband  of 
Dr.  Rooeb's  grandfather's  sisteri,  As  to  what 
Dr.  Bosks  is  pleased  to  "  nasert  positively,"  I 
must  leave  this  to  the  judgment  and  discretioa 
of  the  reader.  }.  C.  Roqeb. 


(i"*  &  vi  M4.) 
A  short  tjwe  ainoe  I  «opied  Oe  foUewiHg  para- 

Sh  ftam  I^OaimAa-  of  ^ate P^un, Dvaeatio 
w,  Tolnme  ft*  the  yem  1647-1580  :— 


liie  readers  of  the  dntrming  Htory,  7%e  Ltidiet 
of  BsMf  BoBow,  will  remeinber  tkt  "  bntter- 
had^,"  who  appeats  in  the  opening  hoene. 

O.  S.A. 

This  word  m^  now  he  confined  to  the  North 
of  England,  hut  it  is  not  a  loc^  term.  It  was 
applied  to  a  dealer  in  coin,  meal,  &c.  being  de- 
rived  from  the  barbatons  Latin  w<»d  hladgtr, « 
oormptioa  of  hladariiu,  a  corn-dealer,  ana  was 
applied  to  the  brock  in  cooseqrience  of  the  popular 
tradition  that  it  atored  its  food  (con^stiag  of  com, 
meal,  &a.)  fbr  its  winter  sup{i1y.  Some  aeiive  the 
word,  as  the  name  of  the  animal,  &am  the  Oothio 
bnl  giSr,  the  hailing  goat ;  if  so,  we  have  an  easy 
tranution  to  the  French  ba^eiir,  and  I  am  incline 
to  think  that  this  ia  very  prubabie.  How  the  word 
ia  adU  reteioed  in  its  primitiTe  Btat«  and  meaning 
in  tlha  Nfrt^it  I  iiM  only  *TnlMi  by  rrtnti^nrug 


*•  8.  TU.  »■».»,  Tl.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEKIEiJ, 


167 


tha  fact,  Ibat  words 
the  oonDtrj  have  bud  their .  spheres  gradiisUj 
dimintahad  hy  the  nne  of  more  modem  forma  of 
expression,  and  are  thus  fsesilised ;  for  inatimce, 
tiie  old  word  anani  is  now  alaiost  excluMrelr  con- 
fined to  the  We«t  of  England,  as  in  Herefordahiie, 


be  fooad  to  Iwve  been 
tliaB  oDe  part  t£  Eoglaad.  Badger  is  tlao  used  to 
inean  a  pedlu  or  potter,  b«uig  dMived  &om  the 
Itiliat)  Aiu(^7K>,  tbjs  being  piobalilj  from  the 
Gnek  Batti^,  so  tbftt  both  awsauiga  viil  apply 
IB  anBwering  youi  correspradent.       J.  J.  JiniB. 

Badger  (from  the  Fiwch  hagage^  ud  thsoce  is 
dohTea  })agagi«r,  a  oanier  of  ^oods)  signifies  "  one 
that  hay*  con  and  victuals  w  oM  plwe  aad  car- 
rim  them  to  another  to  sell  and  make  profit." 

Bj  sUtate  6  &  6  Edw.  VI.  c.  14:  Badger  ex- 
esntad  from  the  pimishmeiit  ef  an  ingrosser 
-within  that  statute^ 

Bt  6  Eliz.  g.  12 :  Badgers  to  be  liceneod  ao- 


The7ft8^ 


K  Bbolished  the  office  of 


badgerii^,  mA  r^ealad  ue  Bt«tutespa« 
tioa  to  it  (Jacob's  Law  Diet-  Whar 
Xsr.,  &C.    See  also  LjtUetoD's  Zal.  Die 


larton's  Ltao 

Diet,  4ik«d., 

G.  M.  T. 


Ht.  FeuMck's  Ohmary  of  the  Dialea  of  tit 
^MM^w^  o/ ZtmiiJafe  gives  "  |ladger= a  traTelliDg 
lUBjac-nf  of  produce,  E.H.EnowLK, 

XoajJOoith. 


OHBHE. 
(4'*  3.  Tii.  S6.) 
I  bare  beard  that  ombre  was  a  game  similar  to 
quadrille,  which  I  remember  to  have  seen  played. 
Counters  wew  Mtd,  which  in  tiu  fint  instance 
were  pnt  mlo  a  pool — a  pool  of  quadrille  being, 
Ske  a  rubber  or  whist,  a  mccession  of  games. 
Only  forty  cards  were  uaed.  I  think  the  threes, 
foun,  and  fires  were  tliose  tkrovn  out.  There 
were  four  players.  The  three  great  cards,  or 
"matadocM,"  were  Spadille,  tbe  ace  of  spades; 
liUniUe,  according  to  tba  tiuinp,  tha  tvo  of  apadea 
«c  aim,  or  the  eeven  ot  hearts  <»  dJMWBda; 
BMt^  Um  ace  (rf  ohibe.  The  tninp  wm  dendad 
bjr  "ashing  leave,"  the  first  hand  having  the 
frioriigbt.  If  BODtheisaid  "preferaaca,"  mean- 
ing ksHts  Gar  the  trmup,  tbe  first  save  vray. 
TIm  partnar  waa  daeided  l^  one  of  tbe  playeM 
"Meeptfaig.'^  If  th«  ftvt  woold  not  yi^  to 
"preference,"  he  might  "  caH  a  king  " — i.  e.  nam- 
ing a  king,  and  ^ving  some  worthlasi  card  in 
■xchange,  for  which  he  paid  a  fine,  and  then 
plamng  indepaMdent  of  a  parton;  bat  if  aaothar 
-idi  <*!  wiU  play  akoa,"  all  yialdad  to.  h». 


If  tbe  aama  of  the  tmmp  made  all  tbe  tee 
tridra  it  was  a  "  voice,"  if  only  five  it  was  a 
"basto,"  if  cmly  foar  it  wsfl  "codiUe,"  or  basted 
off  the  board.  When  hearts  or  diamonds  were 
trumps  the  ace  was  called  Funto,  and  ranked 
above  the  king;  if  not,  below  him  luid  the  quean 
and  knave.  Hence,  the  king  of  hearts  not  baing 
a  trump  could  take  the  ace,  and  save  SeUnda 
frcm  CodiUe. 

I  bare  beard  that  in  ombre  ^das  wwe  pre- 
ference, and  hence  Belinda  names  if  ades  as  the 
trump,  she  baring  the  three  matadorea  (o«  matt) 
in  her  hand,  the  kmg  aad  piobaldy  a  small  ^ade. 
The  reader  vrill  find  tlwt  wily  thrae  playws  were 
engaged,  aod  that  there  must  have  haen  ten  eaida 
in  each  enit.  The  game  derived  its  name  from 
the  fourth  player  baing^ths  ehadov),  though  bow 
he  became  sucH  I  know  not.  In  some  old  bouses 
you  may  occasionally  see  card  taUes  trith  scoopad- 
oat  pools — periiaps  bow  nsed  as  slabs  in  aa  upper 
storey — these  are  ombie  tables. 

I  have  haard  that  f  nadiilU  is  'a  Spuisb  gaa*> 
Tbe  matadcms  simeat  tbe  bull  fight.  la  Spadille 
tbe  sword,  fioeto  the  dab,  and  Puato  the  dog  F 
What  ie  Haaille,  and  what  Oodille  f 

Can  any  oaa  inform,  me  what  was  ^  game  of 
Boston  f  Z.  Z. 

Tour  OMtespOBdeDt  will  probably  find  tbe  d»- 
tub  of  this  game  b  tbe  Com^eat  Oamttter,  edi- 
tion 1731.  iVom  this  woric  Hr.  HalliweU,  in  hto 
Arehaie  Wordt,  quotes  the  fbUowing  deacri^ 
tion: — 

"Tbare  are  nveral  aorta  of  this  nma  CBlIsd  L'Ombrs, 
bet  thit  which  la  tba  chief  ia  called  Bmagada,  st  which 
three  onlf  can  pUj.to  whom  an  dealt  Bfnecardaa-piiiee: 
ao  tliat  dJacartUng  tba  slghta,  niuaa,  and  Icoa,  then  will 
noialn  thirteen  cards  in  the  atoek  ;  there  is  no  tmmf 
iHit  what  tbe  player  pleiseii;  the  fliat  hand  baa  alwa^ 
the  iibeity  to  play  or  pan;  tStx  him.  the  aecond,"  Ae. 

Tbia  is  as  fitf  as  Hr.  Halliwell  qaotes.  The 
game  is  of  Spanish  origiu,  and  is  only  an  improve' 
ment  of  "  pnmero."  The  Compleat  Gameder  says 
the  latter  game  wen  rapidly  out  af  &ahi»n  after 
tba  introduc^n  of  ombM. 

bi  Taylor's  .Butory  o/ Ptoywv  Car4»  (Hottea) 
it  ift  stated  :— 

•■  The  Itatiaei  hwre  baen  tba  ioveaton  of  alBoct  all 
theeaMaeof  pare  dance;  llu8paBtMda,oatbaaoBtHi7, 
TlbM  Bona  but  tboae  of  a  digiiiSed  ehancter.  Tbai« 
latiooal  gatne — ombr^  *  tbe  game  of  man,'  a  modlficatif^n 


ooDclDde,  thovfora,  that  U  ta  tba  saiHaM  of  exiaMog 
gawo,  and  npon  tMB  aaaomptaoa,  that  the  Spaaiarda 
waaa  hw  earliwt  oaadptairaB." 

Jobs  Pieaoz,  Joxb. 

There  is,  I  belisvs,  aa  good  deaeription  ia  iniat 
of  this  azceUsnt  game,  now,  slae  I  dieuaed  in  Eng' 
laad,  though  in  foil  vc^a  is  Spain  (mtder  ue 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*3.  VII.  r«».86,7L 


Dtune  <^  Tredllo)  end  Spanub  Ameticft  (m  BiMBni' 
bor),  and,  aa  I  Have  been  told,  in  QermaDy  iileo. 

When  I  was  ia  Spun  in  18G5  I  collected  two 
or  three  little  tractates  on  Tieaillo,  and  from  them 
I  compiled  auoh  an  account  of  the  f^ome  at  I  aujp- 
po«e  Mb.  Udai,  demras  j  that  u  to  aaj,  not  an  his- 
torical one,  but  a  descnption  of  the  ^me,  with  a 
code  or  rules. 

I  fear  it  would  be  too  long  a  "  note "  for 
"  N.  &  Q."  (it  miffht  take  about  ten  pages,  I  think), 
otherwise  it  would  be  Ter;  much  at  yout  service. 
The  gome  is  so  good  a  one,  and  so  superior  to 
Whist  both  in  variety  and  the  opportunity  it 
affords  for  the  exercise  of  skill,  that  it  would  be  a 
real  gain  to  the  Enelish  world  of  card-players  to 
'  have  such  a  knowledge  of  its  merits  as  would  be 
triven  them  by  the  appearance  of  its  rules  in 
"  N.  &  Q." 

MeanwhilCj  Mb.  Udil  is  veiy  welcome  to  the 
loon  of  my  little  book:  and  he  wiU  sm  therein 
that  the  ace  is  but  Ilis  (oorth  card  in  the  red  suits 
^except  when  trumps),  and  is  consequently  liable 
to  bo  captured  by  tne  king,  which  is  the  first. 

I  will  take  this  opportunity  of  correcting  an 
error  on  this  subject  into  which  your  correspondent 
Mb.  Pbaoock  has  fidlen  in  his  very  ».T«iiiring  book 
Qtyll  Grange. 

He  criticises  Pope's  deacriptimi  (which  is  in- 
deed, as  Mb.  Uoax  says,  magnificent)  as  not 
accounting  for  the  full  number  of  forty  cards ;  but 
he  seems  not  to  have  been  aware  that  thirteen 
cards  remdn  out  in  each  deal  to  serve  aa  a  bank, 
from  whence  the  players  supply  themselves  after 
discard ;  bd  that  the  cards  in  play  are  but  twenty- 
seven,  and  Pope,  in  this  as  in  all  other  particulars 
«f  his  description,  is  perfectly  right 

HXKBT  H.  GlBBS. 
St  Dnoittn's,  R«g«nt'i  Faik 


THE  BOOKWORM. 
(4"-  a.  Ti.  527;  viL  66.) 

I  have  Been  many  bookworms  in  the  course  of 
my  long  intimacy  with  books ;  and  the  first  spe- 
cimen of  the  insect  I  chanced  to  meet  with  was 
in  an  old  volume  in  Trinity  College  Library, 
Dublin,  in  the  year  18S6 ;  and  here,  in  Oxford,  I 
have  seen  not  a  few.  Some  yeaie  ago  I  received 
a  letter  from  Mr.  John  Leignton,  F.S.A.,  asking 
me  to  tiy  and  procure  a  specimen  of  the  worm, 
which  be  wished  to  exhibit  before  a  curious  audi- 
i  at  a  lecture  which  he  was  about  to  deliver 


rommye 

Library,  and  transoiitted  iteafely  toMr.  Leighton, 
°""'ieed  in  a  quill,  by  post  just  in  time  to  be 

iced  on  the  table  by  the  lecturer. 

"  made  a  note"  of  the  book  in  Trin.  CoU. 


ts  the  bookworm  anything  more  than  the  little 
chocolate-coloured  beetle  we  know  so  well  as  the 
producer  of  "  worm-eaten  "  furniture  and  boards  ? 
His  littie  twisted  borings  are  thesameinsiEe,  and 
I  have  caught  him  in  my  books.  Once  only  have 
I  had  the  privile^p  of  catching  him  in  the  grab 
or  caterpillar  state,  and  then  he  was  n  whitisb- 
lookiuD  grub  in  the  middle  of  a  volume  I  Buddenly 
openec^  and  was  eating  his  naseu^  out.  I  as- 
sumed at  least  that  this  must  De  a  bookworm,  but 
I  am  no  entomologist  Our  old  library  used  to 
be  infested  till  my  mother  cured  the  books  bv 
having  them  taken  down  every  year  and  dusted, 
where  needful  with  pepper  and  pounded  alum, 

P.P. 

A  copy  of  Cimfe»sum»  of  Faith.  SfC.  ^e.  ofpublick 
Aulhori^  M  Ike  Church  of  Scotland,  Gla^tow, 
1764,  in  my  possession,  is  eonsidetably  worm- 
eaten.  The  diameter  of  the  hole,  measured  at 
several  placea  where  the  perforation  is  perpen- 
dicular to  the  ddes  of  the  book  (and  the  hole 
conaequently  nearly  circular),  I  make  one-twen- 
tieUiofantnch.  W.  F.  (2.) 

I  have  Prinsep's  Sutorical  SetuUt  dedueSiU 
from  recent  Ditcoveriei  m  Affghaaidan,  very  badly 
wormed  on  the  back  mar^tin,  quite  through  the 
book  and  the  plates,  and  also  through  the  cloth 
binding.  Published  in  London  in  1844  by  W. 
H.  Allen  &.  Co.  Sam.  Shaw. 


H.  B.  C.  will  perhaps  Uke  to  know  that  Mr. 
Sylvester  believes  he  has  seen  this  insect. 

■■  Nature,"  b«  writes,  "  his  gifted  me  with  eyts  of  ex- 
ceptioDat  micriMcopia  power,  and  I  can  apeak  with  Mme 
aasumnce  of  baviag  repuUdlj  seen  the  cTMtnre  wrigKling 
(ID  tlio  l«amed  Mge.  On  approKcbliiK  it  wilh  breith  or 
Gnguuail,  it  bUScdi  oat  into  the  semblance  or  ■  itreah  cf 
an,  and  ao  etadca  detection." — Lam  »/  Verm,^.  US, 

Masbc 


endosed 
produced 


a  quill,  by  post  just  in 
the  table  by  the  lecturer. 

.  _  a  note"  of  the  book  in 

Librai;  where  I  found  the  rovager ;  but  I  cannot 


"  How  dear  are  their  book",  their  cabinets  of  the 
Tariona  produetloni  of  nature,  and  tlietr  eollectioDa  of 
piinu  and  other  works  of  art  and  adence,  to  the  lesined, 
tbe  sclendSc,  and  tbe  virtooBJ  I  Evea  theia  precioni  trea- 
tnna  bave  tbeir  ia»ct  enemier.    Tbe  larva  of  Orambiu 

CgninalU  will  eitablieh  itKlf  upn  tbe  binding  of  a 
ik,  and  spinning  a  lobe,  whicb  it  covera  with  its  own 
excrement,  will  do  it  no  little  injnrj-.  A  mite  (^oarM 
traditia,  Scbrank)  eats  tbe  paala  that  faateos  tbs  paper 
over  the  edges  ot  tbej  binding,  and  ao  looatns  it.  I  have 
also  ofleD  observed  tbe  caterpillar  of  anntber  little  motli, 
of  which  I  have  not  oscertained  the  apeciea,  that  takoi 
Ita  station  in  damp  old  books,  between  the  Icavea,  and 
tbere  commits  great  ravaged ;  and  many  a  black-letter 
rarity,  which  in  tbeM  days  of  bibliomania  would  ban 


4*  8.  TIL  Fkb.  to,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


169 


beea  viIdhI  at  Its  wdfcbt  in  icoUt  bu  been  inatcbed  bj 
thf>e  deetnwen  th>m  the  bands  of  biwk-collretora.  The 
litLla  wood-boring  bntlea  (^■oAfuui  pertlnax  and  Mtria- 
Aw)  also  attack  booki,  and  will  even  bore  through 
•evenl  TOlamn.  H.  PeiRtiot  mention)  an  instance 
wbere,  in  a  public  library  but  little  fieqnenled,  ticaity- 
arWK  folio  Tulomes  were  perTorated  in  a  slralt^fat  line  by 
the  aame  iasKt  (probably  one  of  these  flpecioa)  in  aucb 
a  manner  tliat  on  paning  a  cord  tbrough  the  perfectly 
roond  hole  made  by  it,  tbeee  twenty-Beran  voiumea  eoald 
be  ralasd  at  once.  The  animala  laat  mentiimed  aleo 
deBlro7  printa  and  drawioga,  wbetber  framed  or  pt«- 
•■rved  in  a  porit-fanUer  —  Ktihy  and  Spenca'a  J^iilo- 
malnaw,  1833,  vol.  1.  p.  336. 


'  Then  la  a  mtt  nf  bom'  wonn 
Tbat  will  the  fkirest  booka  deform, 

By  gnawing  hcdea  thronghont  them ; 
Alike  thrODgb  ev'iy  leaf  they  go, 
Tet  of  Ite  merits  nooght  they  knov, 
Nor  care  they  angbt  abont  them. 
"Tbelr  tasteleu  tootb  will  tear  and  taint 
The  poet,  patriot,  sage,  or  saint, 
Nor  aparins  wit  nor  laamtog : 
Kow  if  yoD'd  know  the  teason  whr. 
The  beet  of  reasons  111  anr^y—  ' 
Tla  bread  to  the  poor  vermin. 
"  or  pepper,  snntT,  or  'bacco-amoke. 
And  Rnaaia-caif,  they  make  a  juke. 

Tet  wby  shoalil  sons  of  science 

Three  pnnv.  rankling  rpptllee  dread  ? 

lis  bnt  to  let  their  books  be  read. 

And  bid  tbe  worms  defiaDce." 

(FSu-Giparint,  by  Joba  F.  U,  Doraston,  Shrewsbnir, 

1816,  p.  354.) 

C.  W.  8. 


Allow  me  to  introduce  myself  aa  tiiat  "  ran  ivia," 
i,*.  "  one  wbo  has,"  I  hAve  &  copj  of  Durandut 
lUUionalt,  Arg.  1484,  in  the  oriRina]  beech  board 
Unding.  The  Utter  ia  quamed  through  and 
through  bj  tbe  bookworm.  From  the  dust  it 
made  on  mj  ihelvea  I  felt  tbat  tbe  worm  was  in 
it  coDtiDuing  its  ravages.  And  oae  daj  I  became 
CODTiamd  bj  taking  down  a  newty-bound  boob 
wbkh  stoodbf  its  side,  nod  finding  a  slight  p«T- 
IbratioD  of  the  leather,  the  proximity  of  this 
■nemy  was  manifeat.  I  took  severe  meanirea,  and 
immediatelj  nubjected  Dartmda*  to  a  terrible 
beating  with, a  hammer.  Out  popped  one,  then 
two  living  worms,  not  quite  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
Ions-  Ultimately  I  obtained  twenty  spedmena 
of  uie  worm,  which  is  of  course  a  larval  state ; 
Ud  besides  this  I  obtained  three  examples  of 
&e  perfect  insect,  a  small  brown  beetle,  but 
these  were  dead.  I  gave  specimens  to  friends, 
and  kept  some  myselt,  whicn  by  oome  accident 
ptlost. 

Hy  belief  is  that  this  insect  orijij^allj  belonged 
to  toe  wood,  and  is  identical  with  tbat  which  per- 
Ibnte*  old  funutare  made'of  beech,  walnut,  or  tbe 
wood  of  the  p««-.    It  is  not  so  often  seen  in  oak, 


for  it  evidently  prefers  tbe  sweet  woods.  It  does 
not  like  the  miU-board  of  modem  books,  or  it 
would  have  gone  into  mine,  and  it  prefen  wood 
to  paper.  It  seems  to  me  to  be  a  very  near  rela- 
tion to  the  nutworm ;  it  is  like  it  in  every  particular 
bnt  siie.  J.  O.  Waltxk. 

68,  Boloover  Street,  W. 


SHAKESPEARE  AND  ARDEIf. 
(4"'S.vii.  11&) 
The  grant  of  Dethick  Garter  and  Camden 
Clareneeuz  to  John  9haheapere  in  1699,  to  impale 
the  "anncyent  armes  of  Arden  of  Wellin?cote," 
and  for  his  issue  to  quarter  the  same— if  such 
^rant  ever  actually  passed  the  seals  of  ofSce — for 
it  is  known  only  from  a  draft  copy  preserved  in 
the  College  of  Arms — has  been  verjr  cnrefully 
ptinted  in  Th»  Herald  and  Otneahgist,  vol.  l 
p.  613,  preceded  by  tbe  prerious  grant  in  1606 
of  the  well-known  arms  of  Shakespeare.  But  it 
was  shown  in  the  accompanying  remarks  tbat 
there  was  no  proof  that  A^en  of  Wilmcote 
(which  is  the  triie  orthography)  ever  bore  arms; 
and  tbat  Dethick,  or  whoever  was  the  herald  who 


flourishing  at  Farkhall,  co.  Warwick;  hut  took 
instead  the  arms  of  Arden  of  Alvanley  in  Cheshin 
^fferencjng  them  bv  a  martlet.  Tnis  is  ahown 
by  a  fac-simile  (ibid.  p.  608J  of  the  bendd's 
sketch,  in  which  the  former  coat  is  scratched 
through  and  the  Utter  substituted ;  one  being 
Ermine,  a  feu  cheqw/  or  and  osure,  tbe  other 
Gult»,  ihrteeroviettjitckleanda  chief  or.  In  fact, 
the  two  families  of  Arden  in  Warwickshire  and 
Cheehire  were  distinct,  and  their  relationship,  if 
any,  is  questionsble  and  remote ;  nor  ia  there  ap- 
parent support  for  Mb.  Hblsbt's  phrawology — 
"  the  old  Warwick  stock  of  the  Ardent  and  tbe 
Alvanley  branch  of  that  family."  Sbakespeam's 
mother  m  the  armorial  draft  of  1699  was  described 
as  "  one  of  the  heyrs  of  Robert  Arden  of  Wel- 
linffcotf  " ;  and  in  1606  the  same  Robert  had  been 
styled,  by  Dethick,  at  first  "Gent"  and  then 
"Esquire."  But  two  deeds  which  have  been 
discovered  and  published  in  more  recent  times 
have  shown  that  in  1660  the  same  person  was 


_ (J.  P.  Collier's  Life  of  Skaketpearr, 

1S44,  p.  Izxiii.)  Robert  Arden's  will,  published 
by  Malone  aud  by  Halliwell,  I^e  of  Shahetptare, 
1848,  p.  6,  and  all  other  collateral  evidence  that 
baa  biUierto  been  brought  to  bear  on  tbe  discua- 
rion,  entirely  confirm  the  sftme  view  of  faia  .posi- 
tion in  sode^. 

If  the  ^rant  to  John  Shakespeare  and  his  issue 
for  impahng  and  quartering  Ajrden  ever  actually 
passed,  there  ia  no  proof  tnat  it  was  ever  acted 


170 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4«S.T1I.  ru-U,*?!. 


xifoa.  In  BO  old  muatciipt  lura  the  two  costs 
beeR  fottnd  qiuutered ;  ud  m  for  tiie  "smI"  of 
WiUum  ShakeepMre  —  of  which  Mr.  Hkesbt 
isuginM  the  exietence — no  iiniM»i&I  seal  'rtst- 
ever  of  the  poet  has  been  diacovered. 

On  ku  momunent  at  Stratford  hiB  amorial 
shield  is  without  quartering,  and  I  cannot  agree 
irith  Mb.  Helsbt  that  "  monumental  evidence  ia 
no  evidence  at  all,"  for  I  regard  it  as  among  the 
vety  best  On  the  seal  of  Ibe  poet's  daughter, 
Mrs.  Hall,  engraved  in  The  Serald  and  Gatecdo- 
gut,  i  514,  the  arma  of  Hall  are  impaled  with 
Shakespeare  akne ;  so  th^  areon  the  gravestones 
of  herself  and  her  husband ;  and  on  that  of  her 
daughter  Mis.  Nash,  the  coats  of  Hall  and  Shake- 
speare appear  qasrtei'lj,  but  no  quartering  for 
Aiden.  These  aO  are  engraved  in  French'a  Shaie- 
tptartana  Gmealofiieti,  pp.  413,  414, 41&. 

I  think  abo  it  wiQ  be  admitted  Qtat  Kk. 
Hkubi's  reSection  is  lathw  imowidawte,  "  that 
Shakespeare  nevw  ttonbled  bhiuelf  in  tke  verj 
costl;  mattei  of  pedigree  in  thoaa  da;&"  Is  the 
first  plac^  "the  matter  of  pe(Ufree"va»amuch 
more  ordina^  afiur  in  thow  ai.j»  ikm  in  our 
own;  and  ceitainlf  it  was  not,  profortiouatel; 
speaking,  more  "  eoatlf  "  then  tkaa  now.  In  tlw 
eecoad  place,  ire  have  vuj  good  proo^  and  it  ia 
undoubtedly  an  intercsUng  feature  aiaoug  tka  very 
limited  nuteriale  we  pooeeH  for  tbe  poet's  bio- 
grsihhyi  that  he  did  really  "traubla  bimwU^"  m 
16w  aod  again  in  1600,  in  asserting  his  poeititn 
as  a  Gentleman, — for  there  ean  1m  little  d<mbt 
that  the  application  to  the  heralds  made  in  his 
father's  same  actually  came  itota  hisiself  i  J(^ 
Shake^are  having  been  bailiff  of  Stratford  diirty 
years  before,  in  16^  when  be  migkt  have  t^tv"'h? 
annorial  bearings  on  that  ground,  had  ha  beea 
inclined  to  do  so.  However,  as  tha  result  of  the 
two  grants,  we  know  that  the  arms  c^  Shakespeare 

Cted  in  1696  were  adopted  and  used,  but  we 
,  no  proof  that  the  quartering  for  Ai«Leak  w«» 
evei  adopted  or  lised. 

Sbakemare's  immediate  aneeston,  both  pi 
naUy  aof  maite«aUy,mnsl  be  admitted  to  have 
been  of  the  "  peasant "  or  agricoltai^  cUm.  And 
wh{  not  f  If  the  truth  wei»  otherwise,  it  wtmld 
be  inteiestiDg  to  trace  his  deecent  and  kia  col- 
lateral telatiimshipa.  But  if  in  truth  hs  was  not 
of  noble  aoMStry,  it  is  sniely  more  satisfaotoij  to 
Test  upon  that  truth  than  to  weave  theoBsa  of 
Tiaonuy  anceatry  for  lus  illustrioua  name. 

It  was  tbe  tnde  oS  the  hiMalds  of  his  d«y  lo 
think  and  act  difiereoUy ;  and  the  character  and 
conduct  of  Cooke,  Dethick,  and  otkeM  who  wan 
h%h  in  ofEce  in  the  Elizabethan  aga  an  unfor- 
tunately too  open  to  these  su^Mioas. 

The  "  combatant  at  Bosworth,"  to  whom  Mb. 
Hblsbi  alludes,  is  in  all  probabili^  altogether  a 
myth;  and  conjured  up— not  like  tha  spirits  in 
MatiMf  by  the  poet  hinuel^  but  in  tha  eaatdioa 


at  tbe  Heralds'  College,  on  DetbiiA  flnding  tiafe 
Sir  John  Arden  (or  Ardeme)  of  Parkball  in  Wu- 
wickshire  had  been  an  esquire  for  the  body  to 
King  Henry  VH.  This  borrowed  plnau  waa  at 
first  taken  (ot  the  Wilmoote  Ardeasy  and  then 
ambiguously  tmnsferred  to  John  Shakemesre's 
own  ancestry  —  in  the  first  |n«nt  of  169o  to  8 
grandfather,  in  the  second  oT  1S89  to  a  great- 
grandfather. Modem  interpreters  have  added  the 
acoeesory  coDJeeture  that  the  imaginaiy  warrior 
fowht  on  Boaworth  fletd. 

Before  I  conclude  I  may  refer  Hn.  Hxlsbt  to 
French's  iSiaJcMpeareima  Omtealogica,  published  in 
1809  as  a  suppleoMatal  volume  to  the  Cambridge 
edition  of  Shakespeare  by  Clark  aod  Wright; 
in  which,  in  pp.  416-603,  be  will  find  large  cot- 
lections  on  the  various  families  of  Arden,  in- 
cludiog  ail  th&t  Mr.  French  could  aUage  in  reply 
to  the  writer  who  criticised  Bellew's  SkaJmtr*  » 
Horn*  (.8vo,  ISeS)  in  Th*  Herald  atd  GtMotogUt. 

Ti ;ii-  -_j  : , — :_  «r  >i  Qohert  Arden  of 


Wyllmcote  in  the  parvahe  of  Aston  Cantlow" 
(1666),  and  of  his  wiaow  "Annea  Aideune  of 
Wylmcote  "  (1680)  show  their  wealth  to  a  penny. 
His  ffoods  were  amiTUBed  at  71L  lis.  lOdL,  hers 
atisT  He  was  in  &ct  a  yeoman^  and  even  the 
extent  of  his  land  has  been  ascertained :  it  was  a 
freehold  called  Asbiee  in  the  pariah  of  Aston 
Cantlowe,  consistiag  of  fifty-nx  aOMS  and  a  well- 
fumished  homestead  poaaesHng  a  hall,  chambeM, 
and  kitchen.  Such  was  the  meaning  ofagncola, 
or  "  husbuidman  " ;  not  an  agricultural  labourer, 
as  we  now  commonly  accept  the  designation,  bat 
still  not  a  gmitleman ;  an  hraieet  man,  who,  Hke 
the  lather  <^  Bishop  Latimw,  cultivated  hie  owa 
land,  and  provided  well  for  bis  children,  ibi 
Pieneh,  however,  is  evidently  wMng  '^en  (hi 
p.  418)  be  amplifies  the  flftr-ux  acres  to  mb 
hundred  Mid  u^-six  by  adding  to  tbe  1 
some  property  at  Saittarfield,  which  pasaed  tt 
the  banda  ta  tha  uma  or  aaothei  itobavt  Ardn, 
and  which  Hr.  Freaoh  meotiMw  as  h^ng  of  tha 
pfwws  extent,  vii.  60  acres  of  arable,  10  ol  naa- 
dow,  and  SO  of  Aine  and  heath,"  Sco.  Ac,  thon^ 
it  is  perfectly  well  known  that  the  arbitrary  aaft- 
matea  wluch  ooonr  in  tkoee  round  auBbe*  ar» 
mokIt  the  legal  anbstitatea  Ibi  unaseertataad  pa»> 
tioalnra.  And  again  (In  p.  486)  by  a  Himlai  pp»> 
cesa  tha  166  acoes  are  ineraaaed  to  "343  acres  «t 
beehold  land  at  tbe  leaat";  bnt  in  all  tins  thei» 
is  evide^  miaap piebensioB.  At  any  evMt  Robert 
Arden,  the  father-in-taw  of  John  Sbakeapaara,  dU 
not  die  posaceaed  of  so  maeh  property.  Nor  caa  X 
uiee  with  Mr.  Fr»ch  in  nis  idwtifleatioB  of 
Tkomas  Ardeme  of  Wylmcote,  living  in  IBOl  ^ad 
the  &ther  of  Robert),  with  Thomas  mentioned  Itt 
the  irill  (1636)  of  Sir  John  Arden,  the  esqmre 
for  the  body  to  JFIenry  VU.,  as  one  of  bis  Ore* 
brothers.  Had  this  hem  tbe  bet,  the  right  of 
Robert  Arden  to  thaaeat  of  Aidan  of  Pad[ka% 


tfkg.TU.FO.SS,'?!.: 


140TES  AND  QUfifilES. 


with  dii«  difiennce,  woaU  hftva  b«ei)  uaquea- 
tionble.  Ur.  FMadi  liacki  fail  conclnnoiu  hj 
Mr.  Hunter^  ugimnDta  im  hia  Prolusions  on 
Shakfipere ;  but  Hunter  was  misled  bj  trusting 
too  implicid;  to  the  aasertiona  of  Detbick's  gtfoit, 
— usertdons  'which  an  not  supported  bv  the  Vlsi- 
tgtioiis  or  otlier  documents  of  the  betaltU,  nor  by 
anv  more  mlntantiikl  legH  evidence. 

lb,  FKOuA'e  additional  pioofs  or  codcIuuoub 
idTBDce  KO  foiHier  than  this :  UtAt  Robert  Arden 
tt  WihDcote  was  tiie  son  of  lliomaa  of  the  tame 
ylaGe:  but  to  proof  of  the  consectioB  of  Kobert 
a&dbiB  fiitber  niomu  with  the  noble  fiunily,  he 
hasno  evidence  at  all.  The  suppoation  ia  merely 
founded  on  the  fact  that  Sir  John  had  also  a 
bother  Thomas. 

Flatwed  with  hie  disoriminatdoB,  Mr.  FreM^,  in 
bit  Table  X.  (p.  499}  pontively  eihibite  Robert 
Aides  of  Wilmcote  aa  a  a^bew  to  Sk  John 
Aidcn  of  Parkhall ;  but  the  armorial  evidence  ia 
still  jnst  ihe  other  w«f,  md  riiowB  that  tlie 
Heiwds  did  not  dare  to  aiMgn  his  tbe  coat  of  the 
WKwidcahifa  Aidens.  Robert  Arden  of  Wilm- 
cote and  bis  &ther  Thomas  were  not  men  who 
had  declined  from  their  posiliwi  as  cadeU  of  a 
mM»  faiuljr;  they  were  rather  hmest  yet^en 
lAo  hod  men  in  wealtfa  and  substanoe  h;  in* 
doatiy  and  fcagality,  aad  were  able  to  leave  some 
little  propertr,  but  no  ancestral  digni^,  to  their 
de«e«Unta  ue  Shakeapaarea. 

JeSK  OMTfiH  Niosou, 


C**  8,  ri.  see.) 

I  asHd  tnotlMV  Tetticn  of  this  song,  bat  Mnnat 
__  -,  T.  .__....  -^  j^^  jji  ,,ay  form.    This  was 

_.. —  H— 1. -'-luttbeyoK 

itwkio^t^ 

aibable  in  writing.     Hia  lg«M 

tM,  «id  A«as,  were  ia  porfect  keepiag,     " 


■yif  it  «              ^                 ,      _ 
MM  ttom  a  genAuie  WrrrthMB,  about  tbe  Ji 
iSSBL  whose  Vraaonotation  cave  a  sest  w' ' 
L  ia  tpdMoilM 


a  navvy-baiU man,  tall,  bUatoCMig;  witbalMt 
btriffiag  in,  a  belchei  neck-clottt^  a  &teze  coa^ 
cord  breeches,  rough  gray  stockmgs,  and  high 

-  A  lIMbom  puwn,  ttlHMB  MDM  tt  ma  Oeotgd, 
AJdlj' old  tinker,  iDtcanMftvm  tba  f«ge, 
Aid  a  Wftams  old  wnoaD.  wIm  stmd  Oeartx'a  fi'lend. 
And  ha  Oflsn  iront  to  her,  ber  aoal  Tor  to  meou. 

Den?  down,  doHV,  tlowa,  der;y  doWn  1 
*■  A  JoHf  M  bnara-,  bo  Methodlat  he, 
Beikovtd  hia  brows  Jag,  and  was  Jolly  and  tma: 
B«  ihMCllt  OeorgB  did  not  ooine  'With  Irnint  intent, 
AMlKMfed  «ir  Ui  twona  to  know  bow  It  wash 
DwTf  down,  &e. 
«  Oamga  fciieii  thia  man'ii  wife,  and  he  ofteHWet*  tAhaa. 
>  good  liice  or  t>aeon  he'd  do  ber : 


■■  He  went  ant  *a  uoad,  anppoaed  to  bii  woA, 
But  (^e  coHniDg  riyboaU  ooly  went  oat  to  lark. 
By  aad  bje  he  came  in,  and  he  fooad  'em  at  praye^ 
They  seemed  mightf  zealoua,  deroul,  and  ^oeeiw. 
Deny  down,  ftc 

**  Ha  looked  oa  his  bacon,  so  cunaing  and  sly, 

Thee  Id  Qeorge*!  i»i^et  he  east  a  qnf  Ck  ^B ; 

Aad  be  >aw  aoaitAhlag  in  tt  tied  ap  in  a  tag. 

Saya  be, '  Honeat  friead,  wtiatU  (boa  got  in  tbe  bag  ?  ■ 

Deny  daws,  dto. 

"  '  Dear  Mend,'  r^ad  tSsorge, '  it  ia  God'a  holy  word, 
It  is  Holy  Scriptaro  I've  got  fium  the  Loid  i 
For  when  I'm  alone^  O  I  caunot  be  Idle, 
I  makiB  it  my  pleaaure  Co  read  at  th«  Bitda.' 
Deiry  domi,  Sec. 

"  •  Then  pnll  ont  thy  Bible,'  Ibis  good  man  replied, 
'Or  elie,  by  tbe  divel.  Ill  Bible  thy  hlcta; 
I'D  Kbte  thea,  aa  than  ne'er  waat  in  thy  life. 
For  thy  BiUe  ii  bacon  tboa'at  (at  froia  my  wiA,' 
Deny  down,  Ac 

"  George  ahnfled  aboat,  at  length  Bibk  pdlad  o«t, 
A  great  dioa  of  bacon  Upped  up  in  a  clout  j 
On  he  took  to  bla  beela,  hr  he  darst  not  be  idle. 
And  never  alnce  that  Idnte  he's  preached  tioot  ^  Bitde. 
Deny  down,  Ac. 

■  Now  wme  hotieal  fcllow^  who  lead  hajipy  llve^ 
*'d  have  yoa  take  oare  of  yonr  baean  aud  wivea  ( 


Deny  down,  Aa." 

[J.T.  F.Bn  .  . 
had  andclpated,  and  therefore  we  «ontent  onradvaa  by 
■electing  the  above  vermon  from  tboie  kindly  forwarded 
by  our  oonapoadcata.  The  aong  would  awaar  tt  Unea 
to  hwre  baiB  ia  «»e  bath  1^  BoAaa  OatlioiiiH  hkI  Pro- 
teacatiB,  and,  <rf  aoMtt,  wiUi  loebjrariatioaa  ai  to  aalt 
tbe  lefolraiMMa  «f  both  iH 


A'BECEXTTS  UnRDESERS:    SOlCKBaETSHIRE 


(4*  a  vii.  89.) 
There  is  a  vefy  inteieatiiig  PV^e  o*  tiie  mordet 
of  St  Thomas  of  Canterbory  u  the  Quarterif 
Xmim,  No.  186.  S^L  16S3.  It  ia  then  Mated 
that  the  four  kugbta  on  the  tu^t  ef  tiie  de»d 
rode  to  SaltwDod,  faaviw  Robwt  de  Broo  in  m** 
>eaaM»oftheBalaoe,aDd  nltimatelypooeeded  to 
Knareaheraafffc  Caatl^  a  royal  nrtrcos  in  tin 
posaesuon  of  Hugh  de  Menvill^  wImm  thej 
remained  fof  a  yeat.  Of  eoniw  vattMS  legwidh 
were  cucvkted,  such  at  tiiat  doga  nfaaed  to  «kt 
the  erumba  which  fell  from  their  table.  It  a 
said  that  they  went  to  Rome  to  receive  tbe  een- 
teaoB  of  Alexander  III.,  and  were  sent  by  him  to 
expiate  their  rias  io  the  Holy  L«ed.  The  legeod 
•tates  that  Uoieville,  Fitxarae,  aad  Brito  died 
there,  and  were  bauied  in  front  <^  tbe  ohoioh  of 
the  Holy  Sepulchre.  Other  aoooanti  at*te  that 
they  Were  intened  in  front  «f  the  chnidi  <rf 
Montesegro.  The  reviewer  wosdera  what  tb« 
dmrtA  ^Hit  Slack  Mimittain  can  metw,  as  it  ia 
ii^asMbM  they  eoald  have  been  buied  befbte  Um 


172 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


t*'»S.TILFBB.!6,Tl. 


chuKh  of  the  Hoi;  Sepulchre,  as  it  bu  beea  a 
Muue  of  public  resoit.  Could  the  church  of 
Llaatony  at  the  foot  of  the  Black  Mountains  in 
the  Vale  of  Ewias  be  meant  P  It  vaa  built  by 
Hugh  de  Locie,  a  Norman  bftroD,  between  1108 
and  1115,  for  fo^  Augustine  friars.  Triicy,  vho 
Btruck  the  first  blow,  was  seized  with  a  dreadful 
disorder  at  Ooeenia  in  Apulis,  and  there  died  in 
torment.  It  u  said  the  wind  had  been  iJways 
contmr  when  he  wished  to  embark,  giving'  rise 
to  the  Gloucestershire  distich ; — 
"TheTnwejB 
Bavt  ilwif  s  the  wind  In  Ihcir  fuxa." 

Fou'a  Jiulge*,  L  S79. 
The  reviewer  points  out  that  the  legend  could 
not  have  been  true,  as  Moreville,  who  had  been 
iuatloe  itinerant  for  Northumberland  and  Cumber- 
land at  the  time  of  the  murder,  though  dismissed 
from  his  office  the  ensuing  year,  in  the  first  year 
of  Joha  is  recorded  as  paving  twentj-five  marks 
and  three  palfreys  for  holtung  bis  court  so  long  as 
his  wife  continued  in  a  secular  habit.  Camden 
says  the  sword  he  used  at  the  murder  was  pre- 
sarved  in  the  leign  of  Elizabeth,  and  is  now  said 
to  be  attached  to  his  statue  at  Biayton  Castle. 
Tracy  was,  within  four  years  from  the  murder, 
j  usticiaiy  of  Normandy,  and  was  present  at  Falaise 
m  1174  when  the  King  of  Scotland  did  homage  to 
Henry  U:  Biadon,  in  his  Surrty  of  Dmon,  342, 
says  Tracy 

"withdrew  hlmMlf^ilfaer  (to  HarthM,  Dstdh)  and 
■pent  the  nmaintkr  of  bis  life,  and  Iteth  buried  in  an 
•nla  of  this  church,  by  him  built,  under  an  ended 
mominient,  with  bit  portniCnra  easraven  on  a  grey 
marble  itone,"  &c. 

I  have  examined  this  tomb,  and  it  appeals  pro* 
bable  that  the  slab  of  the  tomb  belongs  to  Sir 
Williain  Tracy's  tomb  of  the  twelfth  century,  and 
the  udes  to  that  of  William  Tracy,  rector  of 
Hoithoe,  who  founded  a  chantry  in  the  church  in 


their  son  William  resumed  the  name  of  Tracy. 
He  it  was,  I  believe,  who  founded  the  priory  of 
Woodspring  on  the  bsnka  of  the  Bristol  Channel, 
in  honour  of  the  Trini^  the  B.  V.  M.,  and  St. 
Thomas  of  Canterbury  (Collinson's  Someriet,  iii. 
B14).  And  this  is  the  foundation  probably  for 
the  Somersetsbira  tradition  mentioned  by  your 
correspondent. 

Fitzurae  is  said  to  have  gone  over  to  Ireland, 
and  there  to  have  become  the  ancestor  of  the 
McMabon  family,  the  latter  namo  bMog  the 
Celtic  translation  of  Sear't  ton.  Re  gave  his 
estate  of  Willeton  in  Somersetshire,  haff  to  the 
Euighta  of  St  John,  and  half  to  his  brother 
Itobert  (Collinson,  iii.  614).  In  the  neighbour- 
hood Uie  name  degenerated  into  Tltzour,  Fishour, 
and  Usher.    The  family  of  Bret  or  Brito  was 


carried  on  through  his  daughter  Haud,  who  ^t« 

lands  to  the  priory  of  St.  lliomas  at  Woodapnng. 

JoBH  FiaooTi,  Jos.,  F.S.A. 

I  cannot  give  your  coirespondent  any  definite  in- 
formation  respecting  tlie  three  "unknown graves" 
on  the  Flat  Holms ;  but  I  have  myself  visited  the 
remains  of  Woodspring  Friojn,  which  la  situate 
about  three  miles  Irom  Weston-eupeT'-KaTei. 
There  is,  I  believe,  but  little  doubt  that  the 
tradition  which  ascribes  the  foundation  of  thia 
monastery  to  Fitzurae,  one  of  the  murderers  of 
A'BeckeU,  is  authentic.      C.  Buscoxbe  Pools. 

CanoingtOD,  Bridgwater. 


Lady  Gkiksioh's  Gbave  iif  Tewhi  CHtmcH- 
TAED  (4'»  S.  vii.  76,  128.}— I  do  not  believe  thai 
there  is  the  slightest  foundation  for  the  legend 
which  you  have  printed  about  La:^  Anne  Grim- 
ston  to  be  found  m  the  character  of  that  lady. 

It  is  difficult  at  such  a  distance  of  time  to 
show  what  were  her  opinions,  but  I  have  suffident 
evidence  to  moke  me  believe  I^ady  Anne  Grim- 
ston  was  a  religious  woman. 

In  the  first  place,  she  gave  fifty  pounds  to 
Hales'  Grammar  School  at  Hertford,  where  the 
use  of  the  Catechism  <^  the  Church  of  England 
is  imperative. 

Secondly,  there  is  evidence  of  the  purchase,  I 
presume  by  her  orders,  of  Usher's  .Bo^  of  Divi- 


ter  by  his  first  wife.  And,  lastly,  I  have  » 
accounts  for  the  years  1682, 1683,  1684,  vouched 
by  Lady  Anne  Grimston  (A.  G.),  confining 
charges  both  in  London,  at  St.  Ann's,  8oho,  ana 
in  the  country  at  St.  Michael's,  St.  Albans,  for 
setting  up  the  horses  duiing  church  on  Sundays. 
Our  church  at  St  Uichael's  is  so  far  from  Gor- 
hambury  that  we  are  obliged  to  have  horses  out  on 
Sundays,  and  I  have  an  account  dmilar  to  Sir 
Samuel  Grimston's  in  my  house  books. 

VSBULAX. 

Omhambaiy. 

Beudes  this  esse  of  Tevrin  churchyard,  there- 
are  other  places  near  London  where  large  massive 
tombs  of  the  eighteenth  century  have  bad  their 
masonry  displaced,  and  their  iron  railings  brokea 
or  absorbed  bv  the  growth  of  elm  or  ash-treea 

Elanted  around  the  grave.  One  such  instance  I 
now  of  in  the  churchyard  of  Perivftle  in  Mid- 
dlesex; another  in  Hertfordshire  at  Aldenhana: 
and  both  these  are  very  striking.  A  lees  remark- 
able case  occurs  in  the  beautiful  churchyard  of 
Chislehurst  A.  J.  M. 

MtTBAL  PiisTiiia  m  Stammh  Chcecb,  Nok- 
T0Lx(4>^S.Ti.64S,677;  vii.40.}— Youroorrespoo-  ,, 
dent  F.  C.  H.,  at  the  last  reference,  in  regard  to  this'  ^ 


*'»S.TJLF«B.!3,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


173 


mgala 


Bumption  of  immediate  befiiitude  could  have 
eotertuned  of  an;  ordluaiy  individuftl,  however 
eonobled  by  worldly  honoaro." 

It  U  very  dangeroua  to  dogJistise  on  m«dieeval 
art  witiiout  a  Teiy  eiteiiBiTe  Bcqu&intaQce  wiUi  it. 
F.  C.  H.  u  in  error.  On  monuments  this  is  of 
common  occurrence.  There  is  the  little  bi 
a  Besnchunp  in  Cbekeadon  cburch,  Oxfordsbire, 
irbeie  the  Teiy  dengn  itself  is  two  angels  bearing 
svay  the  soul.  The  same  may  be  seen  also  an  the 
brusof  SiTHu2hHastitigsat£lsiogiDNorfolk,aDd 
&lin^  list  could  easily  be  made.  Then  in  Flemish 
brasses,  what  more  common  than  to  represent  the 
soul  in  "Abraham's  bosom,"  in  which  "beatitude' 
«eems  accomplished  ?  Neither  is  thit  art  at  all  u 
discoid  witb  church  teachings  in  the  Middle  Ages. 
In  the  "  Dialogues  of  Sl  Gregory,"  where  the 
office  of  the  angel  is  defined,  after  speaking  of  the 
Migel  conTeying  their  sools  to  Purgatory,  in 
whom  there  is  still  some  sin  unexpiated  I^  it 
ctHtdudes,  "But  if,  indeed,  he  departed  in  so 
mncbcbKitythat  all  the  rust  of  un  was  consumed, 
BO  that  nothing  purgoble  remained,  immedirOcly 
the  holy  angela  received  him  and  carried  him  to 
the  lougdom  of  hearen." 

Net  haviog  the  drawing  before  me  I  cannot 
apeak  with  certun^  of  its  details ;  but  if  I  re~ 
member  rightly,  neither  the  figure  of  the  dying 
lady,  nor  of  those  about  her,  nor  of  the  soul  above, 
have  the  nimbut.  This  of  itself  is  a  fatal  objec- 
tion to  its  representing  the  "  Death  of  tho  Virgm." 
Uoreover,  tfie  figures  show  a  number  of  tonsured 
heads — monks  iu  fact — and  one  in  a  cope  holds  a 
shield  of  arms,  the  arms  of  the  Abbey  of  Lawtrey, 
as  F.  C.  H.  thinks.  But  the  latter  expresses  his 
cnnnion  that  the  arms  are  of  no  imporianct.  To 
this  I  must  observe,  that  in  medieval  art  every 
detail  is  of  importance. 

The  Apostles,  who  thouJd  be  at  the  bedside  of 
the  Virgin  Mary,  are  not  represented  tonsured,  St. 
Peter  excepted;  noris  the  general  character  of  the 
comsoation  that  of  the  subject  which  your  corre- 
spondent maiDlaine. 

The  arms  are  a  very  important  feature,  and  I 
believe  a  key  to  the  whole.  The  bedside  shows  a 
^up  of  monks,  beaded  by  their  abbot  or  prior, 
m  a  cope,  holding  before  the  dying  lady  a  coat  of 
arm^  probably  of  their  abbey.  If  the  death-bed 
of  a  benefactress,  what  more  natural  than  for  her 
to  be  reminded  of  her  charity  by  those  benefiting, 
at  tbe  same  time  showing  her  the  aid  she  bad  in 
their  prayers  to  forward  her  to  the  kingdom  of 
heaven P  The  painting  merely  shows  "that  she 
dsparted  in  so  much  charity  that  all  the  rufit  of 
tin  was  consumed."  J.  G.  WiitBR. 

PoETKiiT  OF  JoHif  Kat  (i'"  S.  vii.  142.)— I 
have  the  portnut  of  John  Kay,  of  Bury,  «lladed 


to  by  Mb.  Wooocbofi,  but  it  ia  unluckily  pasted 
fust  in  my  portfolio.  I  have  also  another  litho- 
graphed portrut  of  him,  but  without  name  of 
artist  or  publisher,  unless  the  signature  "D.  F. 
'  Preatolee  may  refer  to  one  of  them.  I  have  also 
a  folio  sheet  of  letterpress,  contuning  "  A  Brief 
Memoir  of  John  Kay  "  on  one  page,  and  the  pedl^ 
gT^es  of  £aye  of  Woodsome  ana  Qreenhalgh  of 
Brandlesome  on  the  other,  wiUi  a  shield  of  aima 
of  twenty   quartarings,   &o.   Ac.    on   the   other, 

frinted  by  F.  Grant,  Market  Street,  Manchester. 
regret  that  the  above  cannot  be  lent  to  accom- 
modate Mb.  WooDCSOfx,  but  I  enclose  my  card, 
in  case  he  finds  it  necessary  to  consult  them. 

M.D. 

"Thouqh  lost  to  Sisht,  to  Mbkobt  dx&b" 
(I"  8.  iv.  405  i  3'*  S.  ri.  129,  viiL  290 ;  4**  S,  i. 
77, 161,  ir.  399,  vii.  56.)— Though  unable  to  (pvs 
any  information  as  to  the  authorship  of  this  well- 
worn  quotation,  I  can  safely  aver  tnat  it  is  much 
older  than  1828,  as  I  knew  it  many  years  before 
that  date.  F.  C.  H. 

( It  woaM  anpmr  to  be  nttarly  f mposribts  to  traos  tb« 
origin  of  this  lins.] 

Thb  Pbokunoutioii  of  Gbbbk  amd  Latot 
(4*^  S.  vii.  13.) — Aj  a  discussion  of  this  qnerr 
sufficientlv  ample  to  be  at  all  satis&ctory,  would 
most  likely  lequire  more  space  than  the  Editor 
could  ccviveiiiently  apare,  let  me  refer  Maxbo- 
CRSIK  to  chap.  vii.  of  Donaldson's  Vairomama  on 
the  "  Organic  Clasufication  of  the  Original  Lalin 
Alphabet"  EsHUKn  ^^w,  M.A. 

PstcUng  Beetory. 

Some  eminent  schoolmasters  are  engaged  in 
conndering  this  matter.  Let  me  bring  to  their 
notice  a  poem  in  AU  the  Year  Evund  (Jan.  31, 
1871),  on  Frederick  the  Great,  entitled  "Frodericoa 
Rex."  It  u  said  to  be  a  favourite  song  in  the 
Prussian  camp.  The  translator,  however,  on  all 
three  occaaons  on  which  he  has  to  use  the  words, 
makes  them  scan  Fredericus  Rex.  Surely  tba 
Great  Frederick  never  bad  such  short  work  made 
of  him  before.  T.  Lrwm  0,  Datim. 

Thb  Ikish  Pi^anxtt:  "Bdmpeb  SaniBB 
JOKIW"  (4"-  S.  vi.  800,  512;  vii.  42.1— A  Uttle 
contribution  on  this  subject  may  poambW  have  Ik 
clum  for  inaertian.  It  is  a  quotation  from  The 
National  Miuie  oflrAmd',  by  Michael  M.  ConiM, 
1846) : — 

"  Of  timt,  thara  ware  On  Idnds :— '  the  trebly  npld,' 
lh«  Jig  plataly,  and  feitiTe;  cUrge  or  Umcntition,  with 
words ;  bold,  heroic,  martlit ; '  lempo  oidinsrio ;'  Umenta- 


•  Could  anyon*  pOMualng  a  perftct  copy  ofthis  work 
oblieeme  with  K  copy  of  tho  title-puce?  [■' The  National 
Masic  of  IreUod,  contalniDg  the  History  of  the  Irbh 
Bani^  the  National  Mdodies,  ti    "  -'  --"—"- 


uaDua:  raoiuuea      . 
<,  WelliogtonrQnay,   ,  I  p 


174 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


t4»S.Tir.  Fbb.25,71. 


yttoa»l  tietciBB*."— P.  SO, 
Aa  I  oadantaad  Hda  sentence  it  eeemi  thftt  tbe 
jrfooxAr  VM  perforaaed  in  a  "  tim«  "  moch  ^cker 
t^aa  dM  of  a  boUl,  heroic,  or  ronrtuJ  ur.  If  ttiis 
be  tons,  uid  if.  m  Dh.  lUxsi-iTLT  ssyB,  (^«  pUaxtr 
"  owei  tta  ongin  to  ttae  cele4)rBted  Irisn  bud 
CuolM  "  <-  N.  &  Q."  4*  S.  vi.  612^  it  Tronld 
appeRT  tk«t  tko  en^et  put  of  Thx  Khiqht  of 
Iin^Towm's  commiuiioatioii  waa  written  nnder 
*  moBg  impieosioD  aa  to  Ae  Bpedee  of  aii  and  it* 
antiqaitj. 

Aa  apropos  of  lliii  autnfict,  I  f^v*  anotlier  qno- 
tatioD  bom  tfao  aame  NaUomU  Mmtic  of  Inimtl, 
having  reference  to  what  ia  tbereia  c&tled  one  of 
Canlta'a  "nott  pluf^  pimaitie*,"  vix^  "A 
buBper  Sqnira  Jooea    : — 

"Tka  vmA  .  .  .  ban  beea  ptnphraacd  \ij  th« 
tahateJ  Banm  Damoo  t.  aad  Caralan'a  brilUcnt  eArion 
an  loat  la  tbc  qJaodouT  of  tha  facatiou  bana'a  kuU- 
tion."— P.  228. 

Query;  (1.)  'Where  can  "the  facetioua  Imtob's 
initatioii"  be foond ?  (asonly  twoTerseeare  gtven 
by  mv  author^)  ;  or  (3)  does  he  mmM  tbat  Qmt- 
lui'e  lines  are  forgotten,  unrecorded,  and  that  the 
parapliraHe  only  exista  i 

Tn  followHitr  planztiw  will  be  fbund  in  No.  42 
of  Obapnell's  Mtuical  Mmfoanei  at  the  para  I 
give:  "  rlanity  Dudley,"  p.  6,  "Plsaxty  Kelly," 
p.  8;  *■  FUtutt^lIrwino,"  «.  18,  and  "PUnzty 
Oonnor,"  p,  21.    They  may  be  of  inlereat  to  eome 
of  vou  oolMmondents.       TaoKAS  Tuu^  Jua. 
BnugMoD,  llsodieatar. 
Uooie'a  beautiful  funereal  linea  — 
■■  Ok,  banqast  not  in  the  ktHi  homn,"  M, 
•MMt  it  U«/nM  MsMMtoomMttylnria." 
I  onnfeas,  bowsvcf,  tb«  air  baaalwa^vppearod  M 
pw  too  j«ywH  far  the  iropda.  P.  P. 

Ret.  SiMim,  Hmxbt  (4'*  9.  vil  »,  115.)- 
SIb.  TowmBEND  MAT«t  will  find  m  ample  u- 
-  t:  of  Dr.  Samael  Henley,  the  trsodator  of 
r«-e*,  itiNieho"  ■  "•  -  -■  --- 
ten,  iii.  7Se-«6 :  vul 
4,  Pmi*  pm,  W.a 


NbtiIIb,  Lord  of  Bergevenny,  who  owned  Oii 
manor  of  Dychelyng  in  SusaezMo  which  domun 
the  Bwd  "  native  "  belonged.  Posribly  T.  Q.  C. 
rememben  something  about  this  case,-  it  is  the 
latest  iostance  of  slsveiy  I  have  read  of.  I  have 
heard  notbinc'  of  the  Sossex  fishermen  to  lead  me 
to  snppoae  they  were  other  tban  privilegod  a< 
-     -         ■■     Ith  the  rest  (except  in  Kent),  for  they 


ompared  w 
leuly  aU  b 


334.      W.  P.  CoTTRTirar, 


JOsiBOit  {9^  8.  vii.  12, 125.)— Tlie  real  toigon 
is  the  Greek  draco,  Vrbii^  baa  no  feet,  and  tc^  I 
beUere,  vrh&t  it  Mw  catted  the  boa-constriclon 
(9ee  DioBcotid^)  Taos.  PBiLUm. 

FisBXUfSF  nr  nM  Olmv  Tm  <4*  S.  vi. 
988.)— Andrew  Borde,  a  *  native,"  received  bis 
manamisaion  In  the  year   1610  fhim  G«orge 


*  ThbH 


t«r«titioD. 

IE>xoB^n«r  M  inlHd,  fm^  Qnaen  Ajhw, 
}  Banw  Andrew  Dawaoo'i  vnmm  is  prtnMl  in  7Ka 
jvw/ru*  Sow-Bflnl^  editad  by  J.  E.  CmaaliBr.   L«ad. 
I««7,p.ll6.— Ed.] 
i  -All  macadn,  l>y  Hn  w>v,  to  adilcd  bf  Dh  Bin- 


HoLTT,  THK  Gbkxah  Pobi  (4'*'  3.  vi.  177, 
!83.)— There  are  trsuslatjoos — OT  perhaps  para- 

fhrsaes  would  be  the  better  word  — of  several  of 
[olty's  poems  in  the  DtAUii  Umeermlp  Magiaim 
for  1837-S.  The  translator  waa  James  Clarence 
Mangan,  the  fi^ftad  aod  ill-fated.  D.  Buts. 

Udbourae. 

Hakpshirs  ComTRT  CHnsCHriKO:  Pepts's 
Du3T  <4'*  8.  vi.  6.)— The  allouoa  in  Pepye  is 
deariy  to  the  cburchyaid  of  Ticbfield,  where  tiie 
icmMBS  of  the  fiae  caatle  of  the  Barls  <rf  South- 
ampton are  still  to  be  seen.  It  sthkea  me,  at 
twen^  yaan'  distance  in  time,  that  aage  grew 
abaadiaatty  ia  tfae  cbatdiyard  whw  I  knew  it. 

D.  BLilB. 

Melbourne. 

TmotHt  DSXTTO  (4*  S.  vi.  815.)  — "Lord 
Timothy  Dexter/'  «e  called,  resided  in  Newbury- 

CEksez  CO.,  MaM.,  for^  miles  north-east  of 
on,  on  ^e  coast,  for  many  years  in  a  la^ 
briA  hottSB,  which  in  his  lifetime  *>s  aurmonded 
wiA  many  carved  wooden  images  or  statnes  of 
mwe  than  life  nxe.  l^e  house  1  have  aeen  many 
times.  3.  W.  Uptos. 

Periie«7,Uu*.,n.3.A. 

"  Q*r.i«inA»  "(4*  S.  iv.  294.)— This  word  waa 
certaii^y  not  ooined  bjr  Fielding.  Noel  et  Chapsal 
most  correctly  define  it  thus:  "Melange  oenfua 
de  mota  <iui  tembleat  dire  quelf ue  dioae  et  iWt 
point  de  sena." 

They  do  not,  however,  give  the  folloiriag 
account  of  the  word,  which  t  met  with  many 
years'ago— so  many,  that  my  memory  tieaidierOusly 
declines  telling  me  ipA«r«.  In  those  olden  limea 
when  the  "  doctor** "  ar^ed  pmnta  of  law  ia 
Latin,  a  learned  (P)  counsellor,  while  stating  tkt 
ease  of  hi*  client  Matthias  and  a  cock  ^which 

Eirttuned  unto  him),  grew  so  confused  in  hia 
atiai^,  that,  after  a  while,  he  ceased  to  speak  of 
"Oallus  Matthin,"  bat,  contrariwiM,  of  "tialli 
'Matthias."  Hence  a  senseless  and  inaccurate 
jumble  of  words  came  to  be  styled  ''  Galimatias." 

NOXU.  RADBCUfBS, 

SAiEBneci  CrsTOM  (4*  S.  Vi  477;  vii.  107.) 
The  custom  alluded  to  by  Mil  Tdixt  h  still 
observed  in  many  parts  of  Leylandshire  and 
■'-  LmoasbiTe).  Im  my  HWf 
ra  a  notice  of  it    ^  that  d 


»  a.  VII.  Tbb.  25,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


175 


trict  the  eve  of  Maj  1  is  called  "  May  Bough 
Night,"  and  I  give  the  following  as  a  sample  of 
the  emUemittic  meaning  attached  to  the  Yuioua 
bees: — A  wickin  (i.*.  a  mountun  aeh)=Mj  dear 
chkikeD ;  a  plum  tree  in  bloom=to  be  married 
and  aooD ;  a  briaisa  liar.  H.  FiSHWiCK. 

I  have  kuomi  Lejlacd  aboTs  fifty  years,  and 
my  father,  a  noticer  of  old  cuetoms,  must  hare 
kdown  it  nearly  fifty  years  before  that,  but  I  have 
never  seeDoiheordof  auchacustooi  aa  Mb.  Tullt 
taeDtioua,  and  I  tbeiefoie  conclude  he  ia  mistaken 
aa  to  the  locality.  May  day  is  observed  in  Ley- 
land  by  the  meetiuof  of  the  trustees  of  an  importout 
charity,  ajid  the  ebildrea  attend  church.  Royal 
Oah  day,  the  29th  of  May,  ia  also  a  great  day  in 
LejloDcl,  for  the  clube  aud  benefit  eocietieH  hold 
thw  aouual  festival  upon  it.  On  Whit  Monday 
the  Sunday  scholars  march  vith  garlands  upon 
wands  provided  by  ladies  'who  take  an  interest  in 
them  ;  but  the  ansver  to  Ms.  Tcllv'b  queries  is 
mmply  that  no  such  cuiitom  ia  known.  The  re- 
mans about  Lichfield  seem  to  refer  to  the  "  vraJk- 
ing  the  boundaries,"  which  was  practised  Id  many 
places  at  Rc^tion  tide  and  on  Ascension  day. 

Ak  Qui  iNHABiiAirr. 

Thb  Anoaltvsi  (4>^  a  vi.  166.)— Ft*  a 
Kunmaiy  of  Ewald'e  views  oa  the  lUvektioB, 
F.  M.  S.  ahonld  consult  Anberiok'a  masterly  wotk 
on  n«  FivpAgeiti  of  Dmid  and  tA«  Sevtiatian 
of  St.  JU«,  translated  by  Adoteb  Sapbir,  and 
published  by  T.  &  T.  Clark,  E£nburgb,  1860. 
To  me  thia  lemarkahU  vohime  ia  itoelf  an  Afoco- 
lypM.  IX  BuiH. 

&«lb0O»L 

Caloui  (4>*  3.  lii.  06.)— Surdy  this  word  is 
a  mere  metathesis  of  etmnAal,  like  Ben  Jonson'i 
Bobadil  from  Baabdii.  Makbochbis. 

Who  is  a  LaikdP  (4"  S.  vi.  483}  vii  13.>- 
The  query  of  C.  S.  K.  is  an  interesting  one.  The 
Uurd  was  imginally  a  feudal  barou,  and  as  such 
was  dominut.  Bat  in  proceae  of  time  the  dfr- 
Rgnation  of  lord  or  loird  was  applied  not  to 
pioprieton  of  baronies  onb^,  but  to  laodowneis 
ffOMrally.  In  the  Scottish  "  uK^niaitiiHis,''  dommut 
nM]«enUy  precedes  a  name  which  has  parlionaHus 
after  it.  "nat  pi»tioMia  of  land  ore  ordinarily 
■tyled  Mdt  does  not  admit  of  anv  doubt  In 
tiie  Kiricsewion  Keoords  of  St.  Andrews  certun 
familiee  *t  Boarhilla — soch  as  Philp,  Armit,  and 
etfceie— «N  ilyled  poHiontra,  while  the  heads  of 
these  faDuSes  have  &om  time  inunemorial  beea 
neeted  as  lairds.  Portiosers  ware  not  necessarily 
MBM*,  hut  mi^t  he  holdus  ai  portions  of  load 
■mtiA  had  helMgod  to  the  chsrdk  or  the  feudal 
bwcwa.  Eatatea  weie  KHaetimes  broken  up  and 
ontioned  omongr  members  of  families.  (Belt  & 
Bms's  Digad  of  Us  Lmo  of  Scoliand.  Edinburgh, 
ISSftAl.)    In  a  country  where  &mily  pride  vaa 


so  predominant  as  in  Scotland,  titular  deaig- 
nations  were  coveted.  The  farmer  was  at  chur^ 
and  market  saluted  by  the  name  of  his  farm,  and 
the  owner  of  only  a  few  acres  was  hailed  aa  "  the 
laiid."  In  old  times  there  was  hatdly  any  other 
designation  for  a  gentleman  ;  he  was  dominut — 
he  bore  dominion.  The  title  maxter  has  an  aca- 
demic origin.  A  graduate  'ta  arts  was  styled 
"master,'  and  no  other.  Afterwards  the  paro- 
chial cle^y  were  so  designated  out  of  respect  for 
their  office.  Ijatteily,  imtter  became  the  title  of 
a  gentleman.  The  ^ttish  schoolmaster  was  an- 
ciently, in  respect  for  hia  learning,  styled  ifonwM. 
As  university  trwiung  became  mote  common 
among  Scottish  taachera  they  cUinjed  nwwfer  as 
a  higher  title. 

Territorial  deugnations  in  Scotland  do  not  cease 
even  when  the  lands  with  which  they  are  con- 
nected are  alienated.  Thus  we  have  Lord  Ool- 
ville  of  Culroea.  Hy  l«te  friend.  Sir  Jamee 
Menteth,  Bart,  claimed  the  designation  "  of 
C^oeebura,"  when  no  longer  proprietor  of  that 
estate.  And  my  relative.  Sir  John  Ogifrr,  Bart, 
M.P.  for  Dundee,  is  atill  designatsd  "of  Inrer- 
quharihr,"  thourh  laverquharity  estate  long  mnee 
passed  into  the  bands  of  the  LyeUs  of  Einnot^. 
Were  I  personaUy  ambitious  of  constituting  a  sept 
I  might,  without  presumption,  designots  myaell 
"of  Coupar-Oronge,"  though  my  aneeatm' was  of 
that  estate  a  portioner  only,  and  though  that  por- 
tion has  long  been  alienated. 

Charles  RosiBi^  LLD. 
Buowdonn  TilU,  L««i>baiB,S.K. 
Old  Sahdowr  Cabtlb,  Isib  of  Wisht  (4*  SL 
vl,  569 ;  vii.  103.)  —  The  last  remainder  or  SoB' 
down  Castle,  which  for  many  yean  was  used  as 
an  office  bv  the  Koyal  Euguieers*  department, 
was  removed  in  186^70  to  make  room  for  vrorks 
connected  with  the  aaticmal  defences  of  the  Ule  of 
Wight.  A  very  fine  old  carved  oak  chimney-|nece 
contuning  many  armorial  bearings  Mmamed  to 
tks  last,  and  ia,  I  believe,  still  pnierved  in  the  old 
material  store  of  the  Royal  Engioeen  at  Sasdown, 
from  whence,  so  doubt,  whsa  die  latter  Mc^vea 
its  annual  clearing,  it  will  be  sold  for  firewood  at 
the  ensuing  auction,  unless  sonie  ODtiquarian  mu* 
seum  put  in[a  cUim  for  it.  H.  Q. 

FortuDouth. 

Smijtb  (4'^  S.  vi.  474;  iu.  48.)— I  have  lees 
"  Smith  "  in  every  age  unoe  the  Cimquest  ayelled 
Sm^the,  Smiths,  Smyth,  awl  Suilh,  w  the  am» 
arbttmy  foshioa  as  any  other  nont^  hut  Kevei 
before  the  eighteMth  century  (tovaids  the  xaiir 
die)  have  oMerred  it  spelled  "Smijtb."  Thie 
cannot  be  a  dotted  y,  beeonse  no  y  in  ow  othe* 
name  or  word  aj^ears,  so  far  as  I  remenMr;  so 
distingnished.  I  should  think  hy  tlw  aiMswt 
short  and  loBfrir'a double  dotted  M  was  tetcaded^ 
Smiith ;  yet  it  is  very  curious  and  hiexplicabtv 
that  this  mode  should  have  eprony  up  ik  Vtvtf  i  ^-^ 


176 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4"S,VU.  FSB-W,-! 


port  of  ths  country  at  a  certain  period,  and  for  a 
very  few  jeaxt,  and  then  dirappeared  for  ever ;  and 
not  tlie  least  Cttiious,  perhaps,  that  the  f««hion 
abonld  have  been  ezcIuBivel;  confined  to  church 
Tegieten  {?).  Ferhnpa  in  this  circurastnnce  a 
solntion  of  the  difficulty  may  be  found  at  the 
hands  of  some  of  your  more  ancient  clerical 
coirespondeots.  Fosnblj  M.  D.  is  correct  as 
to  the  analogy  to  Ffoliott  and  FfariDston — an 
OTthography  originating  in  the  abeuni  mietfikea  of 
jtrinters — th«  double  amtllf  (_^  being  used  in  old 
times  in  lieu  of  the  capital,  and  still  employed  in 
the  law,  just  as  the  old  Roman  numerals  with 
fbeir  final  long/a  are  in  phyaic.        T.  Hblbbt. 

Ifi,  York  Chambers,  Stag  StrMt,  Manebulcr. 

Notwithstanding  the  Statement  in  Burke's  Perr- 
age  mid  Baronetagt,  that  "  the  patriarch  of  this 
&mily  (the  spellinfr  of  whose  surname  is  of 
rare  occurrence  in  England)  was  '*  John  Smijth, 
Esq.,"  who  lired  (amp.  Henry  VIIL,  I  incline  to 
the  opinion  that  the  name,  after  all,  is  really  but 
Smith  and  Bmyth.  In  former  days  I  find  it 
usual  for  mayors  of  this  town  to  write  after 
their  names  ''  Maior."  and  frequently  the  Latin 
"Major."  The  official  in  1714  writes  "Maijor," 
whidi  may  b«  read  either  as  Maijor,  or.  with  a 
dotted  y.  Mayor.  It  is  easy  to  sea  from  this  how, 
*t  the  bifling  coat  of  two  dots.  Smyth  could  be- 
come Smijth.  Chables  Jacksox. 


I  notice  that  Sp.  considers  the  modem  name 
Smijth  to  be  an  orthographical  error,  having  for 
its  fonndation  an  ancient  method  of  double- 
dotliag  a  y,  thus  y.  There  is  an  old  and  common 
family  name  of ^P.'s  which  often  appears  in  pedi- 
grees of  families  with  whom  Sp.\  hare  inter- 
married :  I  mean  "Obiit,"  spelled  also  in  old  MSS. 
Ohijt,  thus  reverdng  the  chronological  change  in 
Smiith.  Can  8f.  tell  whether  this  name  was  ever 
spelled  Obyt,  with  a  dotted  yp  L.  N.O.N. 

Hditb  to  Ceaismxit  (l!^  S.  vii.  66.)— Hr. 
Effingham  Wtlaon  has  published  a  shilling  hand- 
book OD  the  management  of  public  meetings. 

J.L.C. 

Qfsek  Elieabbtb;  Rbai  Pkrsoits  in  "Thi 
Faxbie  Qttbkit  "  (i-*  S.  vii.  49.)  —I  will  not 
c|uestiou  Mb.  EnaoTLET's  judgment  in  ssjign- 
nsreal  persons  to  the  names  in  Spenser's  poem. 
The  whole  tenor  of  the  poem  is  what  would  be 
natural  in  the  work  of  such  a  man  as  we  know 
Spenser  to  have  been.    But  I  wish  to  draw  atten- 


"I  find,  by  (he  w«y,  th»l  thne  are  peraons  who 
WonU  SBcrificB  bfstoric  trntli  ia  faU«  ildicscv,  anj  irho 
Uame  oie  and  olberd  for  vindioling  the  filr  rsm«  of  the 
great  qiwsn  li^nn  ihc  fool  upersion*  of  Dr.  Lingard  and 
his  antlioritin,  even  ttiangh  lomeirhst  at  the  expfiiw  of 
her  hendam,"  Ac 


1  do  not  know  who  the  persons  are  of  whom 
Mb.  Kbiobtlbt  is  speaking ;  nor  do  I  underataod 
the  contrast  suggested  by  defending  her  fair  fame 
"at  the  expense  of  her  heroism."  But  the  fair 
fame  of  Elizabeth  ia  a  thing  iu  which  probably 
few  persons  have  now  anv  belief.  In  ner  own 
dav  it  seems  that  fewer  still,  if  any,  would  have 
beliered  her  to  have  deeerred  what  we  mean  by 
"fair  fame";  and  1  beg  to  point  out  to  Mb. 
Ebisbtlbi  that  the  convenient  summary  of"  the 
foul  aspersions  of  Dr.  lingard  and  his  authori- 
ties "  does  not  approach  the  question  as  it  Dow 
stands,  and  therefore  does  no  good  to  the  memory 
of  Elizabeth. 

An  article  in  the  Salardaj/  Review  of  7an.  14, 
1871,  headed  "Calendar  of  State  Papers,"  will 
show  MB-EBisHTLBTwhat  is  the  state  of  modem 
opinion.  And  if  it  is  still  his  pleasnre  to  describe 
a  generally  accepted  view  of  her  cbaracler  as 
"foul  aspersions,  he  must  include  the  documents 
at  Simancas  and  English  State  Papers  in  his  ooa- 
demnalioD.  D.  P. 

Sioarii  Lodge,  Malrem  Wells. 

Ballasallbt  (4*^  8.  t1.  476,  583.)— Posdbly 
some  member  of  the  Manx  Socnetv,  aided  by  loctu. 
history  or  tradition,  may  be  able  to  nfibrd  the 
information  required.  In  the  meandme,  I  would 
i  suggest  that  the  name  may  poeubly  have  the  fol- 
lowing, one  or  other,  derivation :  1.  Balla  (town), 
Saaiiiey  (btine) ;  2.  BaUa  (town),  ^aaiey  (mo«t 
beautiful);  3.  .Bottn  (town),  &dley  (salting);  4. 
BaUafXoyni),  Soyllty  (enjoyment). 

There  are  other  words  more  or  less  proximate, 
allied,  or  related  to  the  above ;  but  poaubly  those 
now  adduced  may  be  auffident  to  point  to  the 
correct  meaning  and  deriration.1 

2,  4.  If  the  locsli^  was  selecUd  as  the  site  of 
a  monastery,  on  account  of  its  delightful  and 
enjoyable  position,  then  S  and  4  show  prabal»li^ 
of  derivation. 

1, 3.  If  the  locality  was  a  fish-onring  station,  or 
d^p6t  for  salt,  Ac,  then  1  and  3  point  to  the  dmi- 

3.  But,  if  literal  construction  is  to  decide  tha 
derivation,  then  3,  BaUa  &^-salting-tawn- 
town  of  salting,  is  conclusive.  J.  Bxalk 

SioHiTABr  Atn>  SiGNATAKTBs  (4">  S.  vi.  602; 
vii.  U.)—Boiti  these  words  ara  spelt  wrongly. 
Signatory  is  the  right  spelling,  from  ligmUor,  a 
signer  or  sealer.  It  is  a  word  commonly  used  by 
writers  on  diplomacy ;  through  the  Italian  it 
would  run  most  readily  into  this  messing,  only 
the  e  would  in  English  revert  to  the  Latin  i. 
Sigitatory,  even  in  Webeter'a  Dirtumarv,  is  only 
given  as  an  obsolete  adjective  firom  the  Lattn 
»>^naforiiw=used  to  seal  with.  iSr]pHDttini<isaquite 
different  word,  and  signifies  a  pbysiognomisti 
whose  science  interprets  iniddes  from  outsides, 
all  created  things  being  suppnaed  by  such  pro- 
fessors to  carry  imprinted  upon  them  their  Maker's 


4*aL  Vll.  Fm.  25,'7I.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIEa 


177 


C.  A.  W. 


intention,  u  wax  coireapoadB  to  the  BJgnet.  A^ 
earedly  tbia  b  not  what  diplomaUsts  intend  b; 
ngnator;/ ;  lot  vbataver  Mgn  they  put  forth  ' 
1m  interpreted  by  its  contrary. 

This  word  b  eimply  barbarous.  You  might  as 
-well  vrite  ttrnttarii  for  amatory.  Mb.  Tagnch 
iriU  find  tignaivry  in  Richardson. 

Makhochbtb. 

"  H18SILB  AD  UsuM  Saeuk"  (4"  a  vi.  436, 
558 ;  Tii.  64>_F.  O.  H.  auggeHtotbat  the  date  of 
&  M3.  may  be  ascertained  by  means  of  the  date  on 
'  -which  Easter  Day  falls.  The  same  idsa  occurred 
to  me  some  time  ago ;  but  as  every  MS.  calendar 
which  I  bave  since  eiauined  places  Baster  Day 
on  Uarch  27,  I  hare  come  to  the  conclusion  that 
it  was  conrentioaally  placed  on  that  day,  in  which 
cue  the  above  theory  of  course  falls  to  the 
ground.  F.  H.  H. 

FBAHCIS,  ElRL  OF  BOTHWELL  (4"*  S.  \\.  422  ; 

fii.  63.) — Dr.  Rakioe  is  quite  ligbt,  and  the 
date  stated  by  me  was  wrong.  I  took  it  from  a 
notice  (in  No.  zix.  of  the  Herald  and  Oeneah/fttt, 
p.  19)  of  a  seal  of  this  esrl,  figured  in  the  first 
series  of  Laing's  Scottish  Seala.  The  creation  cer- 
tainly took  mace  before  December  10,  1SS5,  on 
which  day  Francis,  Earl  of  Bothwell,  as  heK- 
ditaty  admiral  of  Scotland,  is  found  tailing  pre- 
cedence in  voting,  of  Francis,  Earl  of  Errol,  the 
hereditary  constable.  See  Acts  of  the  Scottish 
Parliament,  vol.  tii.  p.  376  (cited  in  Biddell's 
Atrofft  Law,  vol.  i.  p.  166).  As  January  then 
followed  December  in  the  calendar,  this  transac- 
tion occurred  more  than  a  month  before  the  date 
of  BothwelVs  charter,  quoted  by  Dk.Bamaoe.  It 
is  certainly  curious  to  find  him  dealiag  with  the 
kirk-lands  of  Cloeebum,  but  strange  things  hap- 
pened in  those  days  of  tulchan  bishops  and  lay 
abbots.    I  hope  seme  one  will  clear  up  the  mys- 

a  about  his  brothef-german  Hercules  Scott, 
how  the  latter  came  by  his  surname. 
The  magnificent  remainBofCricbt«n  Castle  still 
attest  the  power  and  dignity  of  his  ancestors — the 
Hepboms — whose  devices,  anchors  and  cordage, 
a*  nigh  admirals  of  Scotland,  are  traceable,  carved 
in  stcne)  on  various  parts  of  the 


Pasodibs  (4<*  S.  vi.  476  j 


Anslo-Scoiub. 
10, 106.1— There 


f  Tennyson's  "  Cbra  Vera 
da'  Were,"  the  other,  of  Lon^elbw's  "  Norman 
Baron."  Can  any  oF  your  readers  inform  me  of  a 
complete  parody  on  ^akespeare'a  HamktT  1  am 
told  that  such  a  thing  exists.  J.  C.  T.  Uaix. 

Tie  Poetic  Mirror- ;  or  the  Living  Sardt  of 
Britain.  Longmans,  1816.  This  is  reviewed,  and 
■ome  extracts  given  in  the  Quarteriy  Beview, 
No.  XXX.    Reference  is  also  made  to  two  articlea 


OD  Parodies,  in  No.  xv.  I  have  not  that  number 
at  hand,  but  probably  it  contuns  further  informa- 
tion on  the  subject.  T.  Lbwis  0.  Daviks. 

Pear  Tree  Yicari^e,  Sontbtmploii. 

I  have  a  copy  of  The  PoeUe  Mirror ;  or  the 
Living  Barde  o/Brilam,  second  edition,  published 
by  Longmans,  1817 :  which  contuns  parodies  of 
Byron,  Scott,  Wordsworth,  Hogg,  Coleridge, 
Southe^,  and  Wilson.  Before  it  came  into  my 
possession  some  one  had  written  on  the  title-page, 
■'  by  James  Uogg,  the  Ettrick  ShephenL" 

R.  E. 

Soaton. 

Among  the  books  of  parodies  and  imitations  in 
my  possession,  of  which  1  gave  a  list  at  p.  16,  I 
find  that  I  acddentally  missed  one,  the  tide  of 
which  I  now  subjoin  ; — 

"  Rival  Rhvmea  In  HononT  of  Bams.  With  earloni 
Illuslritive  Matter.  CoUecKd  and  Edited  by  BaaTio- 
vato."    Loudaa  (Routledge),  small  Svo,  I8J9- 

WiLUAii  Bates. 
Birmiaghsm. 

Levbsbll  (3"  S.  z.  608 ;  xi.  66,  284,  483 ;  xii. 
402.) — Mb.  Skbat  says  he  does  not  remember  this 

word  elsewhere  than  in  the  two  Chaucerian 
passages  and  in  the  Fromptorium.  I  have  just 
come  upon  it  in  the  Aiiiari  of  ArUter  in  Robson's 
Three  Metrical  Romancei  (Camden  Society) ; 
and,  as  the  ledfa  id  is  there  described  witJi  mucli 
clearness,  I  think  the  lines  are  worth  quoting  in 
"N.&Q."- 

"  By  s  lanryel  be  lay,  vndsr  a  lefe  sale, 
or  box  and  of  barbaric  byssyt  fel  beae." 

SUnia  6. 
Halliwelt  quotas  leveeele  from  Occleve,  in  con- 
necdon  with  the  tavern.    Chatterton  seems  to  use 
the  word  correctly  in  the  two  instances  I  re- 
member : — 

"  As  Elyaaiu  bie  the  green  leaselle  ns  gyttTnee." 

"  No  moe  the  amblyai:^  pilfrie  and  the  borne 
Shall  fri>m  Iba  leisel  toOzB  the  faie  aw^e." 

EiiHoart  and  Jttga. 

I  find  no  difficulty  in  the  leveueOe  of  the  tavern. 
Such  arbours  are  common  enough  in  suburbs  and 
country  at  the  present  day.  Joen  Axdjs. 

Bbautt  but  SKra-DBBP  (i*^  8.  ii.  294.)— This 
may  be  found  in  Ralph  Venaing'a  Orthodoxe  Pora- 
doxet,  third  edition,  i»ndon,  1650,  p.  41 : — 

"All  the  beaot;  of  the  world  'tis  bat  skin-deep,  ■ 
Bonoe-blast  defaeetb  it." 

W.  0,  B. 

The  Hok.  Cathbrinb  Sotjthcote  (4**  8,  vi. 
646 1  vii.  64.) — She  was  the  youngest  daughter  of 
William,  second  Baron  Widdrington  (who  died  in 
1676),  and  married  Edward  (or  Edmund)  South- 
cote,  of  Blyborough,  co.  Lincoln,  Esq.  She  died 
at  Cambray,  in  Flanders,  in  1768,  as  appears  from 
the  OeaHeman'i  Magaane  (xxviii.  292J,  when  h^i^  ^ 


IT! 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*«■  8.  Til.  Feb.  25,  TI. 


husband's  Christian  name  u  sud  to  have  been 
Edmund.  The  fourth  Lord  Widdrington  and  his 
brothers  iwre  out  in  1715  in  favour  of  the  Stuarts, 
and  were  tried  and  Convicted  of  high  tieason. 
They  were  hoirevec  pardoned,  but  the  barony 
and  bsrcmeb^  were  forfeited.  See  The  l^troffi 
«/  &fftmtd  (and  9i.  1716)  and  Burke's  JMtnci 
Saronetcia. 

On  the  floor  of  fte  north  aisle  of  Blybomngh 
church  ia  a  atone  "  To  the  memory  of  Dorothy, 
wife  of  Edmtmd  Southcote,  who  died  in  1714, 
aged  sixty."  The  persons  here  mentioned  were 
probably  the  parents  of  the  husband  of  the  Hon. 
Catherine  Souihcots,  and  the  followioff  her  hus- 
band : — By  the  side  of  the  above  tomb  is  a  slab 
to  the  memory  of  Bdmund  Soatlioote,  Esq.,  who 
died  in  1725,  aged  forty-five.  See  A  JButory  of 
Oa  Couniy  o/Lmee^,  4(o,  1838  ^l  36).      £.  V. 

"Hilabioh's  Ssbvakt,  tsk  Sabb  Cbow"  (4> 
S.  vii.  11,  113.) — I  possess  an  old  volume  lettered 
on  the  back  Lives  of  the  Saints,  going  very  minutely 
into  all  their  minwles  and  suponiatuFal  doings, 
Uilarion  Abbot  among  the  rest;  but  although 
13  pages  are  devoted  to  him,  there  is  nothing  to 
euf^ort  Vaaghau's  alluaon  to  him  and  the  crow. 
Your  correepcndeDt  F.  C.  U.  suggests  a  mistake 
of  Uilarion  for  Paul,  which  sends  me  heck  to  my 
Legenda  Avrta,  where  1  find  under  "  The  Life  dif 
St.  Paule  the  firat  Heimite,"  that  he,  being  on  a 
certain  occasion  — 

"  In  commwiinatiaii  with  St.  Antonj,  there  cams  a 
erowe  and  Mtt  on  a  tree  iheieby,  who  flying  aofUy  eeere 
VDlo  tbnn,  let  Toll  a  wbols  toaSb,  and  went  swaj- ;  then 
said  Paul  to  AnlDDj,  Blessed  be  tiod  that  bath  Knt  vic- 
tual! for  V8  to  eate  ;  know  brother  Antony  tbat  it  ii  six 
jeres  since  thia  crowe  hatb  eeny  day  broa^bt  me  bslib 
a  loaffe,  bnt  now  at  thy  coming  the'  Lord  bath  doubled 

After  F.  C.  H.'s  correction  I  should  not  have 
troubled  you  with  mine,  but  being  desirous  of 
ascertiuniag  something  more  about  my  authority, 
I  take  the  opportunity  of  inquiring  what  is  known 
nbout  this  Xiuei  of  we  Saints,  It  is  a  dumpy  little 
quarto,  my  copy  without  title,  b^inning  "  Table 
of  the  Names  of  all  the  Sainta  contwned  in  this 
Hooke,  and,  Kalendar  wise,  rune  to  p.  938,  Nov.  25, 


July  31,  p.  17, 1 
of  an  appendix  t 
thus: — 


ing  on  with  new  matter  as 
page  63,  where  the  book  ends 


"  Approbstor  Ilornm  Sanctorum  Yitn  ex  aliji  longins 
in  AiiKlicam  i,  D.  Edoaaido  Kineatnan  Veres,  tnto  et 
oura  fructu  edi  possunl.  Andomarop.  27UaiJ,  IiJ>.cuiii. 
■Joan,  FloydoB,  Soc  leau  TheologiB," 

A.G. 

Falls  of  Foters  and  Olaioia  ( d""  8.  vi.  501  ; 
vii.  62,)— The  names  Glamma,  Glamoir,  Glom- 
men,  might  with  equal  reason  be  derived  from  the 
Su.-Goth.  ^ima  (Isl.  ghymi,  G.  ghmme,  obUvisd 
(conf.  the  river  Ldhe) ;  or  from  gUmma,  micare, 


I  comscare  (Ed.  Ifoma,  lux) ;  or  glamma,  elreiHtnia 
I  edere  (Isl.  glamnt,  sttepere  crepere,  gUimr,  strepi- 
tus,  glymr,  resonantia)  ;  or  from  8a.-Oodi.  jpwn^ 
jrom,  tepidusi  orlal.  Jibi,  lacuna,  alsoatagnum  V.  re- 
ceeeus  stagni.  But  a  more  probable  derivation  would 
be  from  the  Celtic  itm,  hit,  Hm,  aqua  (Boxh.  lit 
Lex.  AtU,  Brit,  timi,  liquor),  with  the  not  on- 
common  prefix  g.  Gonf.  the  riverGIan  (Carinthia), 
whence  Klagenfurt,  t.  e.  the  ford  of  the  GUm  at 
Kiagea;  the  Lune  (Let.  £iou),  a  river  of  FJng- 
landi  the  German  rivets  Leine  and  Lane  (by 
some  Zona,  Lamu,  Iioganut;  the  IsL  Id,  taqyua, 
unda,  alao  aqua;  the  Welsh  Bi,  a  flux,  flood, 
ctream,  Ga^c  and  Erse  km,  aqua. 

R.  S.  Chahhock. 
Gray's  Inn. 

Thb  Mbxobt  op  Skblls  (i'^  S.  vi.  297.) — 
Hazlut  is  right  in  liis  assertion  that  it  is  im- 
possible to  remember  smells,  for  the  faculty  of 
memory  can  only  t>e  exercised  upon  objects  wMch 
have  been  seen  or  impressions  made  upon  the 
organs  of  hearing.  Bak-Foutt  aaye  he  can  recall 
at  any  time  the  smell  of  the  binding  of  his  school 
books ;  but  if  be  considen  a  moment,  and  anelysea 
his  mental  operations,  he  will  find  that  he  first 
recalls  by  memory  the  outward  appearance  of  ths 
books,  and  then  (by  a  totally  distinct  faculty)  li« 
fancies  what  their  amell  was.  The  whole  process 
is  a  good  example  of  the  association  of  ideaa. 
Taste  and  smell  aie'closelr  connected  in  many 
points,  and  the  same  law  holds  good  with  the 
sensations  of  taste.  Bab-Point  cannot  remember 
the  taate  of  the  cakes  which  were  in  favonr  when 
he  was  at  school,  unless  he  fitet  remembers  what 
the  cakes  were  like  in  outward  appearance.  Then 
it  is  easy,  by  the  exercise  of  fancy,  to  endow  them 
with  the  attributes  of  sweetness,  flavour,  &c., 
which  had  formerly  such  a  charm  for  him.    The 

Socess  in  fact  ia  an  instance  of  what  Mr.  J.  S. 
Ill  bnppily  calls  "mental  chemistry";  the  one 
operation  oi  the  mind  idmost  unconsdously  gene- 
rates the  other. 

The  mental  sequence  of  these  two  operations  of 
thought  will  be  more  clearly  seen  by  reverffli^ 
the  process,  Una  Bab-Point  ever  noticed  how, 
as  it  were  by  a  mental  flnah,  a  smell  fluently 
calls  up  an  idea  of  place  F  Association  of  ideas  Is 
in  thia  case  again  the  enchanter.  Thus  I  never 
pass  a  yew-tree  hedge  in  my  garden  without  its 
mdescnbable  old-worid  fragrance  instantly  re- 
calling to  my  mind  an  old  nail  in  Derbyshire,  a 
bundrcd  mile*  away,  in  the  garden  of  which  in 
some  wonderful  examples  of  the  topiarian  art  with 
which  I  firat  made  acquaintance  when  quite  a 
cliild..  Similarly,  the  peculiar  odour  which  docu- 
ments give  out  after  they  have  been  kept  in  a 
drawer  a  lon^  time,  irresistibly  reminds  me,  when- 
ever I  smell  it,  of  a  certain  brass-bound  mahogany 
desk  some  two  counties  removed  from  my  hoQie.  i  ^ 
Fbl&sicb^  I C 


4*S.Vn.  Fkb.25,'71.1 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


179 


John  Botbt  (4"'  S.  tU.  11.)— The  name  ia  pro- 
perly spelt  BoflTsj  (proDOUQced  Boorej),  and  the 
amilyia  DOW  represented  by  Sir  Thoma«  Crawley- 
Boecey,  Bart.,  of  Flailey  Abbey,  co.  Gloucester. 
Johe  £<Hirey  was  ths  brother  of  the  Mary  Cout- 
tew  about  whose  father  Ub.  Boylx  inquirea. 
Their  father  was  William  Boerey  of  LoBdon, 
vercbant,  joint  purohaser  with  his  brother  James 
of  FlazJey  Abbey  in  1647.  He  died  in  1663. 
Their  mother  was  Anne,  dsaghter  of  Jobs  Lucr, 
which  Anite  married  (secondly)  Sir  James  Smith, 
Ent  The  brother,  James  Boevey,  eldest  (P)  son 
fit  Andrew  Boevey,  died  in  1696,  having  Buried 
Uarnret  Creseatt  (who  surviTed  him),  and  leav- 
ing usue  Cornelia,  wife  of  Thomas  Vanaker,  and 
'William  Boevey  of  Flailey,  whose  widow  Katha- 
rine, damfhter  of  John  Riches,  was  the  "  widow" 
beloTed  of  Sir  Hoger  de  Coverley.* 

Tha  biolher  of  Mary  Couitenay  was  fathw  of 
Biohaid  Boevey,  who  took  the  aame  «f  Oartk, 
•nd  waa  ancestor  of  tbe  Garths  of  Mordea,  co. 
Borrey ;  and  her  airter  Judith  married  ffir  Levinas 
Bennett,  Bart.  Anne  and  Joanna,  siatais  of  James 
and  William  Boevey,  married,  the  latter  Abraham 
Clariie,  aaA  (he  fonner  David  Bumell  oS  l8l»- 
wortb,  whoM  daughter  Uary  married  Thomaa 
Crawley  of  LiMdoB,  merchant 

The  aims  of  Boevey  are  given  by  Cleveland 
as  Or,  on  a  chevron  saUe  three  plates;  hut  in  the 
grsoit  of  arms  to  Crawley-Boevey  they  are  cited 
aa  Eru.  o»  a  bend  gules  between  two  nartleta 
■able,  three  gnttfes  d'oi;  and  so  I  think  they 
appear  on  the  monuments  in  Flailey  church. 

I^  in  return  for  this  information,  which  I  hope 
ma*  be  of  use  to  Mb.  BorLX,  be  can  give  me  any 
higber  stepe  in  the  pedigree  of  Andrew  Boevey,  I 
shall  be  much  obUged.  I  think  he  will  have  to 
seek  them  in  Holland.  Hehbt  H.  GiBsa. 

SL  DuDstui'a.  Rent's  Park, 


field.  Thev  are  borne  by  Lords  Lovat  and  Sal- 
toon,  and  by  Sir  W.  Fraser  of  Ledeclune,  Bart, 
file  number  and  arrangement  have  varied  at  dif- 
ferent times ;  six  is  not  uncommon,  placed  three, 
two,  and  oiM.  In  Scotch  heraldry  these  straw- 
b«ny  flowers  are  called  "  Fraairs."  They  may  be 
seen  on  the  ancient  cross  at  Peebles.  As  to  the 
other  queries  I  shall  be  glad  of  informattiai. 

The  last  of  the  French  Prasers,  the  Marquis  de 
la  Frezeli^,  was  killed  in  the  Duchesso  de  Bern's 
attempt.  Ths  EnisHC  oK  Mokaa 

Old  Puxra  ot  Stohshbrqe  (i'*'  S.  vii.  86.)— 
David  Loggan,  the  engraver  of  Mb.  Edwin  Detit- 
kik'b  old  print  of  Stonebenge,  was  bora  at  Danttio 
about  the  year  1630  aecotduig  to  Bryan ;  and  bis 


chief  works,  the  same  authority  assures  ua,  wei9 
published  in  the  last  quArt«r  of  the  sevvileeDat 
centUTf.  This  wiU  enable  Mb.  Dtthiom  to  fix 
^^Kudmatively  the  date  o£  his  print 

T.Wmtwooik. 

Ret.  Nbhxhias  BoaEBS  (4*  8.  vii.  77.) — 
Nehemiah  Rogers  occurs  as  prebendary  of  the 
^th  stall,  Ely,  in  1636.  He  died  before  1660, 
aa  Laurence  Womock  was  collated  to  this  stall 
July  16,  1660,  and  installed  Sept  22  of  tbe  sam» 
year.  (Walker's  Sufferingt,  ii.  22:  Le  Neve's 
Faai  Anglicmi,  i.  360.) 

Rogers  was  also  rector  of  a  Botolph'a,  Bishop 
gate,  to  which  he  succeeded  March  26,  1642,  on 
the  resignation  of  Wykoa.  Bobertftiiy,D.D.,  was 
admitted  to  the  rectory  Aug.  10,  \&&3,  per  mini^ 
Rogers.  (Walker,  ii.  176;  Newcourt's  Stptrlo- 
rium,  i.  318.)  Rogers  was  admitted  to  the  visar- 
age  of  Messing,  in  Essex,  May  13, 1 020,  per  mort 
Harris ;  John  Preston  succeeded  May  3,  1642,  per 
ceu.  Rogers.    (Newcourt's  Sep.  ii.  417.) 

He  was  also  rector  of  Great  Tey,  in  Essex.  He 
entered  on  this  preferment  Aug.  15, 1644.  (New- 
court's  Hep.  ii,  672.)  Jomrsojr  Bailt. 

S.  A.  will  &>d  some  'aecennt  of  him  in  like 
"Puritaa  Series  of  Comvaitarie^"  NpubliakeA 
by  Niehola,  Ediabuwh.  It  ia  prefixed  to  a  n- 
^Bt  <^A  Strang*  Vutt^ard  w  Pahdimi. 

S.  WunOL 

1,  HlgUdd  rke*,  Bmdtbrd 

9H0HIDB8  ARD    THB    CODKX   SlNAITIOUB    (4*^ 

a  vu.  77.)-W.  E  A.  A.  will  find  tbe  eitr»- 

ordinsry  statement  of  Simonides  printed  in  «X^ 
tenio  in  The  Guardian,  Jan.  21,  1863,  and  the 
consequent  controver^  waa  carried  on  prindp^jr 
in  that  paper,  in  tbe  Literary  Churchman,  and  the 
Clerical  Journal.  A  few  letters  appeared  also  In 
The  Parthenon  and  other  literary  periodicals  of 
the  first  quarter  of  1863. 

I  have  preserved  some  coUectanea  on  the  afialr, 
and  shell  be  happy  to  lend  them  to  W.  K  A.  A. 
if  he  will  communicate  with  me. 

Unless  (as  I  hope  to  be)  I  am  anticipated  by 
some  one  better  qualified,  I  should  be  happy  to 
condense  an  article  I  wrote  at  the  time  in  a  pe- 
riodical now  deftinct  into  a  rioBni  of  the  whole 
contcovetsy,  if  Mr.  Editor  could  give  it  room, 

Gbobse  M.  GBxnr. 

27,  Kiog  WmUcn  Street,  Straod. 

[SnchSB  artiobilfitcnlMbroaghtiritluBamDdenta 
compau,  voold,  we  should  tbink,  ba  f  eiy  acc«plabk  ta 
man;  readers.] 

A  learned  giend  told  me  lately  that  Simoudea 
informed  him  that,  if  he  exammed  the  original 
MS.  vrith  that  of  TisobendorTs  editbn,  he  would 
find  two  places  atarked  as  "  lacuna  "  by  ^e  latter, 
because  they  bore  evident  marks  of  being  tbe 
basdiwork  of  Simonidea,  for  the  initial  lettw  of 
tweBty-c»«  consecutive  line*  spelt  out  tbe  nun 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[^u-S-VII.  Fui.ib.TU 


K,o,  u,  a,  t,R,  D,  t,!,  CO,  8,  S,  i,  111,0,  n,  i,d,  e,  1 
If  tlua  be  the  case,  there  can  be  do  doubt  that  n 
the  world  ia  deceiTed  about  the  BDtiqnitj  of  the 
MS.  SimoDidea,  to  the  laat,  declared  it  to  be  his 
budivork.  O.  L.  Blenxctsopp. 

SpringUtorpt  Bectoiy. 

Chablxmiohk,  Abhs  ot  (4"  S.  vil.  76.)— If 
mr  TecollectioD  serves  me,  a  colossal  statue  of 
CatflemaffDe,  opposite  one  of  the  eatnoces  ti 
Fans  EzBibition  of  1867,  had  on  the  shield  a 
rinds  cross  floij  (bo  tinctures  shown.) 

W.  H.  H.  C.  will  find  the  following  entries  in 
Bietetap's  Armorial  giniral: — 

"  Charicmigiie,  Nonnsndj.  —  D'udc  an  cbeTron  ao- 
oompsgntf  en  chef  da  deu  croiMsnti  Bt  en  pointfl  d*an« 
molette,  la  tont  d'or. 

"  Chsrlenugne,  Btrtj. — D'or  t  I'slala  de  wble  chargf 
d'nne  fiuce  en  diviee  de  guenles  anr^arg^  de  tixns  roan 

Flbub-di-Lib. 
Sawnkt  Bsakb,  the  Mah-bitbb  ('4'*  8.  vii. 
77.) — The  narrative  (^vea  ia  the  following  work) 
of  the  atrocities  cominitted  bj  him  and  bia  family 
are  "attested  by  the  most  nnquesti enable  his- 
torical erideuce,  as  stated  bj  Captain  Charles 
Johnaon  in  his  Bittory  of  th«  lAixt  and  AcUota 
ef  Ae  moa  famout  Hiffhtoaymtn,  Strttt-robbert, 
9c.  ^.,  8vo,  Edinburgh,  1813,  pp.  33-7.  This  edi- 
tion appears  to  be  a  reprint,  aa  tne  Advertisement 
states  that  "  the  Hishny  "  had  become  Terr  scarce 
and  Taluable.  At  the  sale  of  the  late  Duke  of 
Bosburgh's  books  a  copj  sold  for  fifteen  guineu, 
besides  duty.  W.  P. 

Whalb's  Rib  at  SoKEmrao  (4"  S.  vii.  36,  84.) 
The  object  alluded  to  illustrates  a  medieval  prac- 
tice of  putting  objects  of  curiosity  in  churches  as 

on  attractioD  to  those  who  otherwise  would  not 
Gome,  and  is  defended  b^  Durandus.  In  the 
church  of  8,  Mary  Redoliffe,  Bristol,  there  u  (or 
was  until  lately)  a  large  bone,  moat  probably  that 
of  a  whale,  but  sud  to  be  the  rib  of  the  dun  cow 
killed  by  the  redoubtable  Guj,  Bart  of  Warwick. 
As  it  sti>od  upon  a  corbel  apparently  intended  for 
it,  and  of  the  same  date  as  the  church,  this  bone 
has  probably  been  there  for  centuries. 

P.  E.  Masbt. 

Thb  ScHOOLifABTBK  Abboab  IK  Stapfoed- 
8RIBK  (4"  S.  vii.  121.)— The  first  of  these  stories 
was  in  Ptmeh  long  ago,  and  is  spoiled  in  the  Staf- 
forMiire  Adeertiter.  It  bad  a  further  point,  in 
the  unseemly  resemblance  between  the  words 
hiAop  and  bUch.  The  collier  says,  on  hearing  of 
a  bishop,  "I  don't  know  what  thee  means,  but 
my  bitch  Rose  shall  pin  he."  It  maj  be  seen, 
admirably  illustrated  as  usual,  in  the  inimitable 
collection  of  Leech's  drawiugs. 

The  Btory  may  be  a  true  one,  but  Fimck  gene- 
rally puts  "  Fact "  when  it  is  so.        Lttteltds. 


NOTES  OM  BOOKS.  ETC. 

CalnAiT  of  Statt  Papm,  Domttlie  Beria,  of  thi  Rrlan 

of  EHzabetM,  1601-lfiOa.    Ifilk  Addtnda,  1547,  156d. 

Edittd  bf  Hsry  Anne  Evarelt  Grcan. 
Calemdar  of  Stall  Paptn.  Fortigm  Stria,  «f  Ua  Seigimf 

ElaabtlA,  15«4-9.  Ediltdbf  Joeepb  SteveDSOD,  H.A. 
CWndsr  o/  SlaU  Paptn,  Cahmial  Serif,  EaH  ladiet, 

Oima  and  Japait.     1617-1631.      SdiUd  bf  W.  Ned 

Salnabaiy,  Eiq. 
adtHjar  of  Slate  Paptn,  FimifK  atd  Ikmatie,  o/(*a 

Sam  of  Htnrf  VIII.  pnmntd  m  tke  FmbKe  Bieeri 

Omct,   SriHtk    Miunm,  tmd  tUeidun  im    Engtand, 

Arniutd  and  oKs/nwd  bt  1.  S.  Brtnrar,  I1.A.     Vol. 

IV.    Fart  I. 

If  an.v  doubt  could  exiit  as  to  Um  value  ■nd  import- 
■DCS  of' the  great  work  of  cdendarin^,  and  »  nndeiiDg 
available  tlu  Btatcblai  atom  nl  butorical  docBmenta 
preserved  amonc  our  National  Baoorda,  to  tbe  inaognra- 
tion  of  which  tha  late  air  Ueorge  Lewit  eo  Urgelj  ooo- 
tiibnled,  and  which  ia  now  being  ao  aamaafullj  oanied 
OD,  aad?r  the  auperviaioD  of  Loril  Romilly,  it  mast  be  in- 
■tjDtty  diipellFd  bv  ■  glance  ■!  tbe  conlanta  of  the  four 
Roodl;  Toloniea  whose  litles  we  have  just  truuoribed. 
There  ia  not  ■  branch  of  our  hMorv,  pditleal,  tirrlfnian 
Ucal.  Tnunidpa1,or  aociil,  which  does  not  raedveman  or 
leaiillDitratiDD  fromaoma  of  tha  dDcnmeoUbve  described, 
and  of  many  of  which  the  very  exiitenoa  ia  fint  mads 
known  to  atudenta  by  these  valnmes.  Mrs.  Everett 
Green'a  Calendar  completes  the  regular  aeries  of  tha 
Domestic  Suta  Paper-  of  the  ReiRn  of  Queen  Elizabeth, 
and  tbrowe  much  light  on  the  proceedings  against  the  ad- 
herents of  the  Earl  of  Euei :  oa  the  controversy  between 
the  Jesuits  in  England  and  tbe  secular  priests;  and  far- 
nishei  aume  minute  cletails  concerning  the  last  illness  and 
death  of  Elizabeth  :  the  remainder  of  the  volume  l>ring 
occupied  with  addenda  of  tha  Domealic  Papen  of  EdwHd 
tha  Sixth,  Mary,  and  the  earlv  yaara  of  Eliiabelh  dis- 
covered since  the  printing  of  Mr.  Lemon's  volume.  Mr, 
Slevenson'a  volume  ia  the  last,  it  is  uQderstcod,  which  tbe 
public  will  receive  from  this  accomplished  scholar  ■,  Bad 
those  who  glance  over  the  brief  but  interesting  sketch 
which  hs  gives  of  the  contents  of  the  volnme.  which 
eontaina  abstracts  as  well  of  the  entire  oRlcial  correipond- 
ence  which  pasaed  between  England  and  foraign  coon- 
tries,  as  also  of  such  latten  as  were  aenC  from  abroad  In 
the  Queen  and  tbe  English  Ministry  generally,  daring 
the  j-eara  Ib'A  and  1566,  wilt  regret  that  thej  ore  to  re- 
ceive DO  more  such  instructive  akelches  fhim  the  same 
hand.  Tha  interest  attached  to  Mr.  Sainahan-'a  volume 
'    altogether  of  a  different  character,  for  the'doci 


contained  In  ii 


illustrai 


,s  of  tb 


origiu  of  the  East  India  Company  and  of  our  Settle- 
menta  in  IndU  which  were  commenced  in  Mr.  Sainshury'a 
precedii'ff  volume  — a  voluraa  of  which  it  may  be  re- 
marked that  it  was  considered  so  valuable  by  the  Secm- 
Ury  of  State  for  India  that  (ifry  copies  of  it  have  bv  his 
direction  been  diftributed  among  toe  four  rreaidenciea  in 
India,  The  last  Calendar  wa  have  now  to  notice  ia  tha 
first  part  of  vol.  iv.  ofMr.  Brewer's  Stale  Paptn,  foreign 
and  Donuetic,  of  the  Re-gn  of  Henry  Vllt.  Althou- 
the  papers  contained  ia  it  are  confined  to  the 
1526,  yet  - 
able  » 


le  of  Vvii- 


Ls  they  have  been  collueted  from  everv  avait- 
B   and  are  calendared  at  connderable' length. 


they  occupy  a  thousand  pagex,  and,  in  eon^ue: 
instructive  commenlaiy  witti  whiirh  Mr.  Brewer  a 
introduces  bis  volume  will  appear  with  the  last  part 


*«»S,VI1.  Pbb.!5,7I.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


<i'fiiI»flmV,  Ay  William  UichaelRoMetti.  lUiatraUd 
iy  GiutiTii  Dosi.     (UozDD.) 

This  ii  >  iaee\y  prialad  Tolums  of  tba  chnicut  poems 

ofTtiotOMHooil.  It  doMnotconuiii«l[hia(3™ic  I'otna, 

01  all  hia  Strioai;    th«e  miut  be  taaghl.  for,  K  wanled, 

ID  the  two  lolomes  M  entitled.    Ur.  RoeaeUl  openi  th« 

Tohime  irith  a  pnTatary  notice.  In  irhich  [he  few  incidents 

of  Ibe  poet's  life  ■re  briefly  »nd  plesmatly  told,  and  hli 

place  among  English  poets  fixed  by  the  writer  as  ''the 

finest  Englisb  poet  between  the  ceneratloa  of  Shelley  and 

the  genention  of  TcnnrMm."    The  volnms  Is  illiutnted 

with  reduced  copies  of  borf  ■  well-known  picturcj. 

71>  TtoT  Book  of  Faeti  n  Science  and  Aft:  exkibiliiig 

tka  mod  Imporlaal  Diicovtrirt  wtd  iM/tmeateati  nf 

At  Port  Ytar,  j^.  By  John  TimbL  (Uckwood  k  Co.) 

We  have  agaia  to  welcome  theinderaligableMr.Timba, 

md  WBgladly  ,!]■■■■■-■- 


«  InMneted  In  ' 


il  the  attention  of  roch  ol 


a  progren 


of  science  to  this  fnah 


pt<D0f<rf' Hr.  Timbs's  Intelligent  industry. 

RBvmoit  or  Tna  Biblk.— The  Old  Testamsnt  Com- 
pany of  BeriiRS  Temmed  their  labotm  on  Tnesdij  last 
nHM  the  praddeoey  of  the  Bishop  of  St  Davida,  who,  we 
i^inea  to  learn,  no  longer  sea  any  neceseitj  for  with- 
drawing from  his  coanectioti  with  this  important  work, 

aa  be  has  done  hitherto.  From  this  it  may  be  inrerrad 
that.  In  his  jadgment,  the  principle  for  which  he  so 
atrongly  contended  in  tbe  debates  of  lost  week  in  the 
Dpper  HooM  of  CooTOcation  has  been  amply  vindicated. 
The  Bishops  of  Uandaff,  Ely,  and  Bath  and  Wells;  and 
thirteen  other  membara  were  also  preeenl  at  tbji  meeting 
•  of  tbe  company. 

A  Club  is  CoHSTAKTisoptE. — A  new  Ottoman  dnb 
baa  bean  organiaed  in  Stamboul,  originated  by  Mustapha 
Faayl,  who  has  already  made  a  handsome  doDatioa  of 
SOOO  French  works  to  the  library  of  the  dub.  A  branch 
of  tbis  Institution  baa  now  formed  itself  into  a  literary 
eocietv  for  the  purpose  of  translating  European  worki 
'  ■-  ■—  ■— -.  Turkish,  and  is  at  this 
I  of  Lord  CkatrrfUli 
VLa.  Johs  Martin,  M.P.,  the  Repealer,  and  lately- 
elected  member  for  Heath  county,  hat,  to  nse  the  words 
oftbelateArtemna  Ward,  beengniltj'of"agoak."  We 
obaerre  in  Debrett'a  Heraldic  and  Btojiraphicui  Houm  of 
Ona^u  and  tJie  Judicial  Brixck,  the  editor  states— that 
in  rroiv  to  his  customary  inquiry  as  to  the  armorial  dis- 
tinctions borne  by  the  now  mem^r,  Mr.  Martin  replied, 
"  I  carry  no  arms  t    This  ia  a  prodoimed  districL" 

SBAEBrsMtK.  —  At  the  sale  last  weak,  by  Messrs. 
SotbebT,  dT  the  valuable  library  of  the  Rev.  Thomaa 
Coraer  'a  unique  collection  of  Shahapeare's  works  waa 
dispoaed  of.  The  first  four  folio  edilions  fetched  respec- 
tively I60r„  491.,  77L,  and  1^1. ;  a  second  quarto  of  the 
Xtrchant  of  Penin,  'i^l. ;  a  second  quarto  of  3tidt<m- 
mrr  JV^f  •  Drtim,  26L  ;  the  King  Lrar  of  1608,  S6f .  lOi . ; 
the  firrt  edition  otTmyluiand  Creueid.ZV. ;  Olhello,Um, 
bL  tO(- ;  and  Himto  and  Juliet,  1637,  !U  The  greatest 
raritj  in  the  sale  was  the  oriRlnal  edition  of  the  Sanneti, 
1609,  which,  although  tbe  title-page  and  leaf  of  dedica- 
tion  were  in  fac-almile,  reached  45(.  Next  in  interest 
were  the  Venta  and  Adonii,  which  reached  fiGf.,  being 
one  of  the  only  two  perlect  copies  known  (the  other  Is  in 
Ih*  British  Huseam),  and  tbe  Fotmt  of  t6a0,  duodecimo, 

Jrita  perfect,  4I(.  These  last  three  were  purchased  by  Ur. 
ddiDKton,  who  last  year  gave  200'.  ft>t  a  very  flue  copy 
oflbetblrd  folio. 


during  the  last  year— namdy,  "  An  Old  Woman  peeling 
a  Pear,"  by  David  Teniar* ;  "Saint  Peter  Uartyr,"  the 
portrait  of  a  Dominican  monk,  br  Giovanni  Bellini,  im- 
ported  from  Milan  i  "Tbe  Proeeesion  to  Calvarv,"  by 
Boccaccio  Boccaccino,  Imported  from  Milan;  "T&e  Ma- 
donna and  Infant  Christ,  tbe  TouthTul  Butist  and 
Angela,"  an  undnishedplctareascribed  to  Hicbd  Angela; 
an  altar-piece  by  GlambattlsU  Clma  da  CoWliano,  re- 
presenting "  The  Inorednlity  of  St.  Thomas."  The  eollac- 
tions  of  the  Sational  Gallery  at  Trafalgar  Square  and 
at  Sooth  Kensington  have  faasnming  that  all  the  visilora 
to  the  Museum  visit  the  Hctnre  Gallery)  been  attended 
by  1.913,664  persona  on  the  public  days  during  the  year 
1870;  898,716  at  Trafalgar  Square,  and  1,014,849  at 
Routb  Keniington.  The  daily  average  attendance  at 
Trafalgar  Square  {open  to  the  public  180  da»)  was 
4,916;  in  1869  the  average  waa  4,91 1.  * 

Wi  learn  from  The  PublMtr't  Cinmlar  that  Henrs. 
Sampson  Low  A  Co.  have  now  nearly  ready  for  delivery 
the  Dietionary  of  Biographical  Reference,  bv  Lawrence 
B.  Phillips,  F.RJL8.,  which  wilt  consist  of  over  1,000  pp. 
medium  Svo.  llie  raloa  and  importance  of  tbis  dic- 
tionary will  ha  beat  parcalTed  when  It  is  stated  that  there 
will  be  one  hundred  thoosand  names  —  a  Dumber  which 
SKceedi  by  many  thonsanda  those  contained  in  the  moat 
volnminDUS  existing  works  upon  the  anl^ect — and  up- 

lalteia  *" 

G  5,640,  L  5,481,  M  6^16,  8  7,800. 

Dahk  EunoPA'a  Schooi_ — The  auoeeas  of  this  pam- 
phlet has  been  remarkable.  The  sale  has  reached  neariy 
o™,  n^  — i^   ._j  =.  1^  bean  already  translated  into 


>  The  F<Midierf 
ni  tat  ions  which  It 
n  uneiceptionally 
-*■"  '  aReplyto 


French,  while  proposition; 

tugueae  translations  have  been  forwarded  to  the 

lishera.      The    following,   according 

drcular,  is  a  list  of  the  answers  am 

has  called  forth.  Their  sale  has  also 

large.   The  first  on  the  list  is— John  

the  Fi^t,  6rf.  (Simpkin)  ;  Johu'a  eovemor  vialta  Dart 
Europe's  School,  6(t  (Blackwood) ;  Break-up  of  Dame 
Europe's  SchotJ,  8d.  (Clowes) ;  Which  should  John  have- 
Helped  f  €4  (Hardwicke) !  Why  Johnny  didn't  Inter- 
fore,  Sd.  (WhitUker);  The  Bow  at  Dame  Europe's  Schooi, 
another  account,  by  a  Chum  of  Johnny's,  6if.  (Trilbner)  j 
Master  John  and  hia  Tenanta,  or  What  Sandy  thought  of 
tbe  Matter,  6dL  (Simpkin)  ;  What  Johnnv  thought  of  It 
all;  a  brief  Review  of  his  Treatment  at  the  handa  of 
Friend  and  Foe,  id.  (WhitUker) ;  John's  Uncle  thinks  it 
Time  to  say  a  Word,  or  How  to  Conquer  Englaud,  6if. 
(Hotten);  A  Pew  Particulars  of  John's  Fag  at  the  Dame'a 
School,  6i  (Deunant). 

London  Imiersationai;  Exhiditioh  or  1871.— 
During  tbe  week  ending  Februarv  18,  upwards  of  3,600 
British  objects,  consisting  of  Sculpture,  Pottery,  Wool- 
lens, and  Educational  Works  and  Appliances,  have  been 
delivered  at  tbe  Exhibition  Buildings,  besides  foreign 
objects  f^om  Bavaria,  Belgium,  and  Saxony. 


STc'^le 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Corrt^xnuienli,  ice  itn 
Ltt  II(  toJU  Iht  l^pOTlV 
potpble,  and  figoin  to 


ItofovrnummviaKdlncrfatiy 
;  82-po«  niwiAer  again  lAii  aett, 
y  nf  aititg  Ihtn  lo  In  oi  brief  ai 
inif  (Atm  to  write  legiWy. 
SciEMTWic  QuSBiES  thauld  bc  addraud  to  ideatific 
Jimtnalt,  and  G«KKAU>olCAi.  Qd»b1i»,  not  <^  geatral 
iiHert$t,  aill  nol  bt  inierttd  unlm  **•  Quentt  adUt  hu 
name  and  lit  addrat  to  which  Ihe  iit/ormaltoti  he  reqairei 
ntmy  befomardtd  dirtet. 

Mat  MahhiAO«s.-H.  J.  (Mew  ToA)  w  r.J*rr«l  to 
"N.  &Q.°l"S.l-«7,m  (*e  «*,■«("/ . 
being  laluety. 

„,  ^     ,...  -  refemd 

p.  M,  and  aUa  la  p.  178  of  the  pracnt  nu 

CoVCa,     THB    iLLEOED    CWIKSARl* 

Cauew's  inttratiitg  ttfltr  u  tmavnidabl!/  ,   ^    ..      .      . 
ncilKKcit.     Wt  iant  iiIki  to  tbani  Ua.  FataUXi  for  hU 

Errata,— 4'^  3.  vi.  p.  368,  coL.  il.  Kne  8  tram  boUoa, 
far  "  Selingtoa  "  fW  "  TeUnRliiia  " :  p.  E69,  cot.  i.  line  1, 
fvr  "  Ato'kii  Edickpad  "  read  "  Aioka  Ediel  naad  in  in- 
seriptioD*." 

L  «  %"  in«7  bt  hAd  of  Uu 


—Mb.  Polk 


^^otSlB!. 


SgsJS,.'fc;.«-o-  •^  '^"■"  f  "'"■  "■ 

THE  ITEW  VELHTM-WOTTE  CLUB- 
HOITSE  FAFEIL 


noon  ■•  gnOloSu  tinma  enUtnM  k(d  bMn  >IMaid  idul 
i  (■  kit  iMii  t£U  a  prodiM  ■  iHW  dHHiiitlon  of  rfPtfi  ""l*. 


OHITBB'B   HBW   PATSHT  8JLFKS. 

STEEL  PLATED,  with  Diaj 
W«di«.  Drilll.  un 


IBOH   DOORS   FOB  STKOHG  EOOMa, 

Uliatraled  Priie  Littt  Oratii  wtd  Pott-IYtt. 

CnOBB  aad  SON, 


;abtrid6E  and  coofeb, 

MANUFACrCRINQ  BTATIOKEBS. 
1*3.  FleM  Suttt  (Camar  of  Chuoerr  Luw). 

CAKBIAQE  JAID  TO  THB  OOOMTBT  O 


FOOLSCAP,  ■■ 

B1ACK-S0BI> 
BLACK-BOKDERED  ERVSIOFES.li 

TINTGD  UMED  NOTE.  ~ 
HilDiin). »  VBlra  *>r  IL 

cowmMDBTAiipgK>mrt|s. 


rj,H»*  IBBOMK  ^™»™i    «  *■■   »*-   rm   II         .  *- 

FoUdi^  BMl  CM  Dial  ainmd  bw  t>. 


h  WiiUlic  Gh«  I^TBltt  AlkUBh  M 


LAKFLOVOE'S 
PTKETIC     BALIHB 


SAUCE.— LEA    AND   PERBINS. 


"thb  ohlt  60  on  bauci." 


ITRBITAI.u:d  for  FHnrAKCT  A 
ABk  for  "I.BA  AMD  PSBBINS'"  aAlTOII. 
BEWARE     OF    IUITATION8, 


TNDIGE3TI0N.— THE  MEDICAi  PROFESSION 


MlOEt  JIDRBON'8  PREPARATION  <r 


"  :,7eabyCOOC^IC 


*8,vn,  M»ech4,'71,] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


LOSDOS,  BATURDAT,  MARCH  1,  IBTl. 


CONTONTS.— H*  IM. 


terj-Pl«j  in  1815, 11 

tiooofst.Piiur>a. 

Foateuid  "Cbrjial' 


__     _  ..  __jm1«  —  DiJ-spirlt  —  Mir"! 

Te«r— Tb8  Nile—  Cspftdn  Coot  Thnuhia  —  Onxn  B»r. 

ofOoldinghun.UU  — Billnd  PrinMn' Buc- 

~  Bbilliun—BismtiokuitlDipUed ;  "Etew- 

, ._.    Queen  Anno  »nd 

da  Mainleoon  — '"  Aprta  nidi  Is  iMlnn  " :  Arch- 

bUbop    Ldghton  —  Bacon's    C^ueen   CouDHlshlp  —  O- 


iDg  In  thair  own  Gnivj7'"l8S,' 
Qir£&l£8 !  "  CotTHpondei 


■Jamaiis :  HsDaooke  of  Oombmartin  —  fisniptOD  Funllr 
—  Clan  HoAJpTD  —  Uerks,  Blihup  ot  Carlisle,  tamp. 
Klchud  IL  —liuttoD  uid  Cipen  —  "  Owl !  that  loeat 
the  bodtD5  BkT"—  Floagti-boM  — Tbe  Poppa  Boi,  or 
Queen  of  Hiorule  — Bhakeipean;  Enltapbon  HlrTbonts 
Stanler  —A  BprCMa  laird  —  "  Uero  ol  tlw  WaaslDg-pau  " 
— ■Winoel.  or  Wjimea  183. 
SBPLIES:  —  The  "  Bloe  Lam"  at  CoDneoticut,  1>1  — 
Ecatatin:  tbe  "Entolia"  of  CaUwo.  IBS— "Bi"  and 
"Bn."  JA.'— Flndeius  Plowera,  IM  —  lair  Anne  Orim- 
■too'iOraie  la  Tevin  Churchi'ard  — Becket'*  Hurderen: 
Somenetihira  TnuUUous  —  Stamp  on  Pictare  Canna  — 
Mahommedaniim  —  ltart01om*o  IHu.  tbe  Dtaoorcrer  of 
the  Cape  BonM  —  Tbe  Dear  Old  Woman  —  BtoTT  aacribed 
to  Tbeodon  BoiA  —  Lord  Plunket  —  CindCTelli  and  the 
OUai  Slipper— <Hd  Print*  of  Btonebenn— New  Zealand 


Medal - 


_  Blaol 
-Thoma 


It  for  Ul 


fittUi. 

•  "  O  SARZ  BEN  JONSOS  1  " 
In  my  recently  published  little  Tolnine,  Memo~ 
■riah  of  Tmtple  Bar,  mth  tome  acaiml  of  Fleet 
Street,  I  havs  copied  on  p.  99  a  rely  interesting 
document  kindly  lent  t«  me  for  that  purpose  by 
its  fortunate  possessor,  Mr.  John  Carter  of  17, 
Fleet  Street.  The  muuscript  is  rimply  endorted 
<■  Thomas  Cooke  his  bill  1619,"  but  aa  it  relates 
to  the  poet  Ben  Jonsou  I  presume  tbe  readers  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  will  not  object  to  its  reproduction, 
And  at  the  soma  time  accept  a  few  notes  iii  ex- 
plaoalion  :— 

>i  Hernia  Jeneror  Anna  Regis  Jacobi  Decimo 

Septimo,  1619. 

o'Huimis  Cooke,  one  of  tbe  Gromes  of  tbe  Prince  bis 

(Chamber,  beiaz  sect  in  his  Highnea  eervlt^  by  ye  comand 

<rf  M'Weller  Alexander,  Gentellman  U»ber,  Daily  Waiter 

to  the  Prince  hia  Highnej,  of  two  Mesaage  two  sBverall 

Sics  rnim  tbe  Court  at  Whithaell  into  London  by 
pellgatC,  to  warn  M'  Ben  Johnaon  the  Poet,  and  ttae 
Plaven  at  tbe  Blackfrien  to  atend  Hts  Hkgbnea  that 
oigbt  following  at  Court,  wch.  uverall  eerviees  being 
done,  he  retnrned  each  tyme  with  aniwer,  slao  being  aent 
■Bother  trme  by  the  1yke  eomand  to  the  bonorabl.  tbe 
lorde  Habatde  wtb  letters,  web  aerrice  being  done  be 
retamed  answer  to  the  Court  aforesaid,  for  wen  services 
be  piaieth  to  have  alowance  for  his  boot  bier  and  charges 
to  and  fro  for  tbrejoniies  to  be  4  h  octed  by  the  honarbl 
Sir  Robert  Cary  &iygh[  Chamlierlin  to  y'  Prince  Hya 
H^hoes  and  to  be  paid  by  the  worablpfidl  Ur  Adda 
NnrtoD,  Beeever  QeoeiaU  (^  Hy*  Higbnes  Tie«nrer." 


Oldys,  meDtioning  Ben  Jonson's  ownMship  in 
the  Fortune  The^xe,  "the  new  bouM  neere 
Goulding  lane,"  relates  that  he  lived  in  Bartholo- 
mew Close,  in  a  house  inhabited  in  his  (Oldys) 
time  by  a  lettaj'-founder  named  James.  If  Oldjs 
iB«orwet,  it  ia  certain  that,  although  tbe  Close  ia 
not  in  Cripplegate  parish,  it  warrants  the  mes- 
aengor  styling  it  "by  Cripellgatt,"  that  being  to 
him,Bs  to  other  Londoners,  a  diatinguislmig  land- 
mark. But  if  Thomas  Cooke  went  to  the  play- 
house, which  was  in  the  pariah,  hia  deaoriftioD 
would  be  correct 

Next,  touching  the  spelling  of  the  name,  it  ia 
worthy  tA  ttaaaxk  that  Gifibrd  nates—"  He  knew 
his  own  name,  and  peiusted  in  writing  it  correctlu, 
though  some  of  hia  best  Mends  mit^tlt  it."  We 
see  evidence  of  tbia  in  many  contemporaiy  docu- 
ments, including  Mauningham's  Diary  (TTarL  MS. 
5363),  where  it  is  spelt  ''Ben  Johnson." 

About  the  period  of  this  "warning,"  several 
notable  events  were  taking  place  in  the  life  of  our 
poet  In  the  summer  of  IGIS  he  made  a  tour 
mto  Scotland,  viaiting  many  frienda,  including  the 
poet  iWmmond.  GiiTord  says  he  stayed  at  Haw- 
thomden  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  April, 
1619,  arriving  in  London  in  May,  though  others 
Htate  he  stayed  there  several  months.  In  July  ho 
received  his  degree  of  M.A.  from  Christ  Church, 
Oxford,  and  somewhat  lalar  succeeded  aa  poet 
laureate.  It  is  also  worthy  of  remark  that  wnilo 
in  the  North  the  annual  mask  had  been  per- 
formed in  London,  and  but  ill  received,  his  fnend 
writing  bim,  "  Your  absence  was  regretted." 
Such  being  the  case,  ia  it  1«  be  wondered  at  that 
this  "  warning  "  should  be  of  certain  interest,  and 
certainly  historical  F 

There  is  one  other  Huhject  worth  noticing,  and 
that  is  the  Black&iars' Theatre  and  "the  players." 
In  1616-16  the  corporation  of  London  succeeded 
in  preventing  the  erection  of  a  new  theatre  there 
by  BosBiter,for  ithad  and  has  a  great  antipathy 
to  theatres  within  its  jurisdiction,  and  tbe  only 
way  tbe  promoters  coiJd  posaibly  escape  was  to 
erect  the  playbouae  withm  the  privileged  sano-  . 
tuaries  of  me  nlack  and  white  friars'  monasteries. 
Having  managed  to  prevent  the  erection  of  a  new 
building,  the  corporation,  three  years  later,  tried 
to  suppress  the  theatre  entirely,  and  on  Jsn.  21 — 
twelvemonths  before  the  date  of  our  megsenger's 
charge — Lord  Mayor  Sir  Sebastian  Harvey  (who, 
curiously  enough,  became  related  some  years  later 
to  Edward  Alleyn,  the  player  and  founder  of 
Dulwich  College)  issued  his  proclamation,  which, 
after  reciting  the  privy  council  order  of  1600 
limiting  the  theatr^  to  two,  declared  that  under 
the  title  of  a  "  private  "  house  it  had  been  made 
a  "public"  playhouse,  "into  which  there  ia  dail^ 
eo  great  a  resort  of  people,  and  so  great  multi- 
tudes of  coaches,  whereof  many  ore  hackney-  . 
coaches,  bringing  people  of  all  sorts,  that  some- 1 1  (^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*"  S.  VII.  Habch  4, 71. 


times  all  the  Btreets  cannot  contain  them."    But 
eren  this  prohibition  vaa  of  littie  avail,  for  by 

Kteat  under  tiie  great  eeal,  dated  Maicb  27, 
19-20,  two  months  after  the  date  of  our  docu- 
ment, tne  king  licensed  his  "  weU-beloved  ser- 
Tsnta  to  act  not  only  at  the  Globe  on  the  Banimde, 
but  at  the  private  house  aituate  in  the  predncts 
of  the  Bladc/riarg" ;  being  in  fact  a  renewal  of 
the  patent  granted  to  Snakeapeare  and  olherH 
on  May  19,  1603.  There  was  in  this  patent 
of  1619  thia  proriso— that  periormancea  do  take 
place  "when  the"  infection  of  the  d%u«  shall 
not  weekly  excaed  the  number  of  firtie  by  the 
certificate  of  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London  for  the 
time  being."  It  will  thus  be  seen  that  at  the 
period  of  our  messenger's  visit  to  Jonaon  and  the 
players  the  Blackfriars'  Theatre  was  experiencing 
a  remarkable  trial  for  ezieteoce. 

Without  quoting  further  respecting  Ben  Jon- 
son's  life,  it  IS  curioua  tbia  document  abould  have 
remained  so  long  buried;  and,  interesting  and 
genuine  as  it  ia,  is  it  too  much  to  aak  where  may 
be  found  other  M8S.  equally  aa  interesting  aoc 
iUustrative  of  a  life  bo  plea^gly  associated  with 
Ixmdon  P  T.  C.  Noble. 

Great  Dover  Street,  S.E. 


ea  dildpleB,  sor  la  cbemin  d'EmmaOs,  una  en  £tn 
It  gaalrieme. — 11  appanitra  ensaite  i  tea  disdples 


A  FBKNCQ  MT3TEET-PLAT  IN  1816. 
The  following  ia  a  literal  copy  of  a  play-bill 
preserved  by  an  English  family  of  rank,  some 
membera  whereof  were  living  in  France  at  the 
time.  It  ia  one  of  those  many  little  trifies  which 
so  unconsdoualy  accumulate  during  a  residence 
abroad,  and  which,  when  hapjuly  undestioyed, 
bring  back  auch  varied  memonea : — 

"  Par  Ftrmunon  dt  MM.  la  Mairt  ct  AdJoiittM  de  cMe 

Vilk. 

Th^Aibk  d'^ddcatiok,  ou  Ecolb  de  MiEuas. 

SPECTACLE  MfiCANIQUE, 

Avec  les  CoatnmM,  IMcoratloni  ct  Mnaiqaa  anilugnea 

MM.  Toae  eiBs  prtvenns  qu'il  est  arri*^  en  cette  Villa 
del  Artista-U6»Did«nB,  qui  aaront  rhonnear  de  dan- 
ner  oujaiiKf  Am',  Ditnajicht,  trvii  (Je«iiiirelSlG,et  jours 
laivanB,  altemativement,  la  Repr^aantalloD  dsi 
MT8TERE3  GLORIECX  ET  TRI0MPHAN3 

T>B    I.A   B&tJBKKCriOS    DB    HoTBE    SKiasatTB    Jisus- 

Drame  ea  doq  actea,  dam  leqoel  dei  flgurei  rooavuila* 
et  pulantnpualtraat  etjouanint  sarUic^e. 

Doiu  It  prcmitr  acte. — On  vem  Joseph  d'Aiimathie  chei 
Pilila,  lai  demuidsDt  la  permiBslon  da  doaneT  la  e^pnl- 
tara  k  34saa,  et  U  d<<s«poir  de  FilUe. 

Daia  It  Mtamd.— On  rem  desceadra  de  U  croix  la  Sbo- 
vear  du  monde,  pii  Nicodbme  et  Joseph  d'AriiDKthie, 
ensoita  pltai  duu  ua  a^pnlcbra;  J^u  nosnuitera  I 
triomphant  an  millen  de  la  garda,  seldata  da  Urand-  | 
Prttra. 

I>aiu  It  tninimt. — On  vaira  iiim  apparaiMant  k  danx 


riucr^julit^  da  Tbomai,  at  pr^ira 

eneulle  oa  la  vena  moater  an  del,  en  leor  promeUaut 

te  Saml^EBpiit. 
Daa  It  cijupuimi. — Co  verra  la  daacenle  du  Selat-Esprit, 

en  rornie  de  calomba  et  da  laDgaa  da  feu,  ear  lea  Apotrea 

aaeembl^  dans  la  C^naele. 

L'aitiela  pi^vient  qn'il  donnera  das  lepr&entationi  en 
Tills,  Chez  lea  peiwanea  qni  la  TeroDt  appaler. 

Le  spectacle  sera  termini  par  dea^eox  arabesqnes,  oik 
Ton  verra  lea  Houamens  lea  pins  remaTqaablea  de  la 
Cspitala,  et  aatras  objeta  carieux;  Loais  XVIIT,  Rol  de 
Fntnce  et  de  Navarre ;  Charles-Philippe^  Comts  d'Artoia, 
Frftra  du  Roi;  Maria-Th^i^,  Duchessa  d'AngonlEme ; 
Loula-Auloine,  Dae  d'Angonllma;  Charles-Ferdinand, 
DusdeBeirli  Loula.  Prince  de  Coad^,  I'Etoitedu  Bon- 
beur  de  la  France ;  la  Grand'Croix  de  la  L^on  d'han- 
neur;  Fian^ie  II,  Empereur  d'Aatricbe,  Roi  dBHoogrio 
et  de  Bohgnie;  Aleiandre  I",  Emperenr  de  lonles  las  Raft. 
siei,  Rai  depologne;  Georgea-Fr^d^ric-Auguste,  Prince 
Rdgent  d'Angleterre ;  Fr^^nc-Gnillnume  111,  Roi  de 
Piusite;  la  Papa  Pia  VII,  SeuTeraia-Pontife  j  Ferdi- 
nand VII,  Boi  d'Espagne. 

C'est  dana  une  SalU  de  I'Auberge  de  la  Serpe,  ree  de 
la  Serpe,  N"  9.  Oa  comniencera  i,  six  henres  pr^iaas. — 
La  Salle  sera  trts-bien  diauff^.  Prix  des  places ;  Pre- 
mibrei,  huit  tuoi;  Secondes,  qualre  euni. 

J'ai  I'honnenr  de  vons  gainer, 

HuUDBUOHT." 

Unfortunately,  the  name  of  the  town  has  not 
been  recorded.  As  "  lea  Costumes,  D^corationa 
et  Musique  "  are  so  positively  stated  to  have  been 
"  analogues  au  sujet,"  it  ia  a  pity  that^o  descrip- 
tion fiy  a  spectator  baa  come  down  to  us.  The 
character  and  order  of  the  princes  and  potentates 
(generalised  as  "objets  curieux")  may  also  ba 
observed  with  advantage,  remembering  that  the 
date  is  six  months  after  Waterloo.  Alt  criticism 
upon  the  treatment  of  the  subject  I  leave  to  your 
dramatical  or  theological  readers,  merely  observ- 
ing that  the  actors  appear  to  have  been  such  as 
are  now  called  Marionnettes.  W.  C.  B. 


MANX  BISHOPS. 
The  succession  of  Manx  bishops  is  aa  difficult  to 
make  out  aa  the  mnea  on  their  monumental  alaha. 
It  is  possible  that  the  varioua  conquerors  of  Man 
and  the  Isles  may  have  occasionally  set  up  bbhopa 
of  their  own,  irrespective  of  exiatmg  claima ;  but 
I  think  a  little  patient  inveatigation  would  auiv 
ceed  in  making  out  a  re^lar  succession.  In  Le 
Neve's  Fa^i  Eecles.  Artg.  (Hardy's  edition,  Oxford, 
ISG4),  it  is  asserted  that  John  Dunkan  died  in 
1380;  and  it  is  conjectured  that,  on  hia  death, 
the  sees  of  Sodor  and  Man  were  divided,  aa  the 
Scotch  rejected  the  bisbops  elected  under  the 
influence  of  England.  This  may  or  may  not  be ; 
but  he  ia  unfortunate  in  hia  facts  regarding  ths 
first  biahop,  whom  he  deaignates  John,  about 
whom  be  has  discovered  notUng  more  than  that 


*k8.TII.  Mabch4.'710 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


185 


be  w&s  appointed  on  two  commuaions  (12  Ric.  II.) 
to  treat  with  the  aona  of  John,  late  Lord  of  the 
Isles  {"Rjai.  vii.  692).  Now  thia  John  waa  no 
other  than  John  Dunkan,  who  continued  to  be 
Bishop  of  Sodor  or  the  Isles  till  IS96,  when  be 
waa  translated  hj  Boniface  IX.  to  the  see  of  Down, 
which  he  occupied  for  many  yeara,  d^ing  iu  1412 
(Iruh  Ecel.  Record.,  i.  267).  A  similar  conuuis- 
aion  was  entrusted  to  him  (6  Hen.  IV.,  Rym. 
IT.  69).  •  A«un,  Le  Neve  has  thia  entr;;  "John 
Orene  o/um  Sprotton  occurs  aa  bishop  here  in  1448 
and  1454."  Now  were  these  names  used  indif- 
fatently  for  the  eame  personP  I  think  not,  from 
the  reierence  toDugd^e's  Warwickthire,  which  I 
have  examined;  but  reference  b  also  made  to 
Jteff.  Kemp.  Cant,  and  Reg.  Booihe  Ebor.,  which 
I  have  not  examined.    In  Dugdale'a  WarwicluJiire 


"c.  D.  Joh,  Inauleas.  Epiec.  titulo  Comende,  i 


Feb.  1449  (en 


0  ad  hoc  auctoritale  Apogtollca 


Buffidenler  et  legitime  diapenaatum)."  The  refer- 
encea  are  "b.  Arundel  f.  142  b,  c  Bo.  f.  10.  a." 
I  Both  incumbents  were  presented  bj  the  patron 

I  D.  E^ac  Cot.  and  Licb.    Sproton  was  a  Domi- 

nican,  and,  on  the  anthority  of  a  MS.  quoted  in 
the  TAetiCrum  Dotnmicmum,  ia  aud  to  haTe  been 
appointed  by  Boniface  IX.,  the  same  who  trans- 
lated John  Donkan  to  the  see  of  Down :  — 

"Jo.  Sprotoii  ord.  Prssd.  Episcop.  Sodonn.  in  Scotja 
ProTinc.  NidrosIecaBanifacio  IS.  Uil.  Octob.  an^S,  qui 
,  fait  a  Glorioaae  Virginis  partu  Mileiimiu  treccnteeimua 

nonigegimas  secundoa." 

Thia  date  1392  does  not  a^ree  with  that  already 
g^Ten,  1396,  for,  the  translataon  of  John  Dunkan. 


•oiling  the  episcopal  registers  abeadj  referred  to, 
might  throw  light  bou  on  the  indiTtduality  of 
Sproton  and  Grene  and  on  the^  date  of  Dunksn's 
tzanslatioii.  '  A.  £.  L. 

THE  COMPLETIOS  OF  ST.  PAUL'S  CATHEDRAL." 
As  many  of  ihe  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  are  in- 
terested in  thia  subject,  I  must  crave  a  abort  space 
in  order  to  aay  that  the  most  important  point — on 
wbich  me,y  be  aaid  to  depend  the  ultimate  auccess 
of  all  future  operations  in  thia  great  national 
'tratk — viz.  the  poaitioa  of  the  organ,  has  been 
decided  as  only  it  should  have  been.  The  organ 
will  be  placed  in  the  Teatibule  of  the  choir,  near 
Ha  origmal  poaition,  but  divided— as  at  West- 
minster, only  with  mauT  adTsnlagea  over  the 
oi^an  there — againat  the  blank  walls  where  now 
etsnd  the  Nelaon  and  Comwallta  monuments. 
The  cases  will  be  auffidently  large  to  allow  of 
ConaideTable  additiona,  so  that  one  organ  will  be 
sufficient  for  botii  choir  and  dome  services.    It  is 

■  See4*S.Tl.W,G&,]6«. 


to  be  hoped  that  no  mere  sentiment  about  the  old 
organ  caae  will  be  allowed  to  mar  what  should 
be  one  of  the  moat  ornamental  featurea  of  the 
cnthediaL  The  case,  as  it  now  atsnds,  is  not,  I 
believe,  Sir  ChriatopherWren'a,  aeveral,  if  not  all, 
of  the  fignies  having  been  added  to  it  since  hia  time. 
If  allowed  to  start  from  the  ground  and  to  run  up 
to  nearly  the  springing  of  tbe  roo^  the  organ 
need  be  of  no  great  bulk,  and  if  properly  treated — 
not  in  the  "  box  of  whistles  "  style — can  be  made 
to  add  to  the  intended  aplendour  of  the  choir. 
After  Easter  we  may  hope  to  me  the  demolition 
of  that  eyesore,  the  transept  organ.  Could  not 
the  marble  columns  on  which  it  ettmds  be  pressed 
into  tbe  aerrice  of  the  baldachino  P  I  do  hope  tbe 
Chai)ter  will  think  twice  before  thev  sanction  the 
erection  of  the  old  retum-stslls  (nappily  to  be 
remoTedfrom  their  present  position)  in  the  vesti- 
bule. As  much  of  the  misbehaviour  on  Uie  pait 
of  the  congregation  at  St.  Paul's  ia  owing  to  their 
being  able  neither  to  see  nor  hear  under  the  pre- 
sent arrangement,  it  seems  to  me  that  what  ia 
required  is  (joo  choirs — one  for  the  ordinary  and 
the  other  forthe  special  services,  but  so  contrived 
that,  oa  the  latter  occasions,  the  whole  cathedral 
may  be  thrown  open,  and  vet  the  proper  ritual 
arrangements  muntained.  If  the  eagle  were  re- 
moved one  bay  west,  the  conductor  at  the  special 
services  might  atandat  itin  fullurht  of  the  choir 
and  organiat,  and  thus  the  originally  intended 
dotible  use  of  the  lectern  would  be  restored.  The 
Committee  should  at  once  order  the  waahing-out 
of  the  decoration  of  the  easternmost  cupola  of  the 
choir.  Its  aham  panelling  is  moat  ofiensive,  and, 
moreover,  tbe  very  design  itself  does  mischief,  aa 
people  natnrallyaak,  with  a  abrug  of  the  shoulders^ 
if  acene-painters'  work  is  to  be  the  result  of  the 
expenditure  of  a  quarter  of  a  million  of  money. 
In  a  future  note  I  should  much  like  to  touch  on 
the  stained  glass  and  mosuc  work  in  the  church. 
I  will  at  present  con&ne  myself  to  saying  that  it 
all  i^peara  too  dark  and  heaTy.  Y.  C.  E. 


PiOBOH  PoBi  TO  Pakts.— The  following  inter- 

efiting  account  of  the  pigeon  post,  which  appears 
in  T/te  Teltgraph  of  Feb.  27,  in  the  Paria  Letter 
of  its  Special  Correspondent,  ougbt  to  be  pre- 
serTod  in  "  N.  &  Q.  as  a  companion  to  the 
account  of  the  photographing  of  TVia  Timet  in  your 
paper  of  Feb.  i,  imii  p.  94 :  — 

"  I  waa  mach  inteiasted  jnterday  In  an  exptaoatioa 
of  the  pJBiian  i]-atam  kjndlj  given  tfl  me  at  the  Central 
Telegrapb  Office.  The  microaeople  telegranu  sunt  from 
Toun  were  at  Snt  printed  on  thin  paper  by  the  ordinarf 
ayatem  of  pbotograpbie  nduction  ;  bat  the  paper  was  too 
heavy — ■  pigeon  could  cany  only  five  of  tbe  little  abeeta, 
though  they  meaaiue  no  more  tfaan  three  inches  long  and 
two  IncbM  broad.  To  get  over  thia  difficulty  the  de- 
apatchee  were  pbotographed  on  piecei  of  collodion  of  tbe  ,1  ^ 
aaine  die  aa  the  paper,  each  little  Int  ooDtaining  thirty  i,  I  v. 
oolomna,  and  averaging  30/)00  words— Uut  is  M  saj. 


188 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4as.vu.11 


>!,  IL 


about  tbe  contenl*  af  tbirtetn  1e«d«d  mlnimia  of  a.  Lon- 
don Mvspapf  r.  From  foutwn  to  dgfatMB  of  tboM  tinr 
leavei  wire  pat  into  a  quill  snd  tied  to  ■  pigeoa's  tnil, 
WT«T>1  ceplM  oF  the  bubo  leaves  being  ssit  bj  diffennt 

CIgeoDS,  BO  u  lo  dimiDish  the  liik  of  loai.  Wlien  the 
ird  reached  P«ii>  the  qnill  w«s  immedistely  forwaried 
to  the  tidegraph  elation,  nhere  the  leaTt*  -were  re«d 
throni^h  a  mtcroocope  to  ft  clerk*  vho  wrote  onE  the 
dnpaCches  for  e>ch  person.  But  this  w«s  a  leiriUjr  dow 
prooeea  ;  it  pennitled  the  emploTmeiiC  of  onlr  one  reader 
ud  only  one  writer,  whidnru  inraffident  for  copying 
eome  30,000  tel^ams  of  ten  words  each.  80,  after  a 
few  daya,  the  leaves  were  ancceSBiTely  placed  in  a  tafge 
nicrOKOpe,  U  which  eteclris  light  wee  sdapled  ;  and  the 
magnified  image  of  each  leaf  wai  projected  oa  awhite 
boud,  from  which  it  was  copied  by  asmanyclerka,  taking 
acolmnn  each,  as  could  niaoBga  lo  get  tight  of  it  from  ths 
writing  table.  This,  however,  was  still  too  Blow,  and  the 
final  improvement  WHS  invented.  Instead  of  throwing 
the  image  on  the  white  board,  it  was  photographed 
Mraight  off  npon  a  lazgc  abeet  of  collodion ;  direct  poai- 
livo  proofs  being  obtained,  witlurat  any  iatervenlion  of  a 
negative,  by  the  snbstilutioa  of  black  for  white,  and  vitt 
rer$a.  The  collodion  sheets  were  cut  up,  and  the  piecei 
were  distributed  to  a  hundred  clerks;  so  that  all  the 
cargo  of  s  pigeon  wiu  copied  and  sent  out  in  a  single  day. 
The  explanation  which  I  received  was  accompanied  by  a 
pntetical  illnatrmtion  of  the  working  of  the  prooaia ;  and 
wbgn  I  lea  I  was  prtaented,  to  my  very  great  aatiafas- 
tioD,  with  an  on|Clnal  pigeon  despatch  of  the  11th  of 
November.  I  ahaU  carefully  preserre  that  atriage  little 
memorial  of  tbe  siege." 

me  that,' 

a  Dote  of"  and  preserved  in  jour  pages,  it  might 
be  dewrable,  before  too  late,  to  draw  up  some 
notitwe  of  the  charscters  drawn  in  Foote'i  come- 
dies, and  in  7^  Adixntvres  of  a  Guinea,  As  a 
long  time  has  now  intervened,  and  the  individuals 
themselves  have  passed  out  of  recollection,  there 
can  hardlj  be  anything  painful  to  relatives  in 
recording  who  thej  were.  I  myself  have  some 
notices,  drawn  from  the  magazines  of  the  period, 
of  parties  whom  Foote  meant  to  satirise  and 
allusions  designed  to  tell ;  and  am  informed  that 
there  are  to  be  found  in  some  work  illustiationB 
of  the  nnrratives  stTen  in  The  Advatturei  of  a 
Guinea,  but  tliia  I  have  sot  beea  fortunate  enotigh 
to  meet  with.  W.  (1.) 

[Tbij  i>  a  very  excellent  aaggestion:  but,  as  (kr  aa 
Tnia  A^nenittret  t^a  Gmatea  is  ooncemed,  has  been  anti- 
cipated by  Davis  in  hia  Olio,  when  a  kef  to  the  charac- 
tere  In  Otrj ml  will  be  fouul.  ] 

Shonblbs.— Id  Sir  G.  Comewall  Lewis's  Xi/a 
and  Letlert,  somewhere  about  the  llOch  |iage — 
for  tbe  book  is  not  in  mr  possession  now — men- 
tion is  mada  by  that  aoimd  scholar  and  most  true- 
hearted  and  eonBcientious  Htatesman  of  the  word 
shongU  as  in  nse  in  Herefotdshiie  (called  Aongott 
in  Devonshire),  and  signifying  a  handful  of  com. 
I  think  he  did  not  know  whence  the  word  came, 
but  my  recollection  ia  not  distinct. 

It  occnrred  to  me  the  other  day  to  aak  my  man 
when  diiviftg  me  outj  Owao  HcKeoa  bein^  « 


J.  H.  P. 

'CBBrBiL."— It  has  often  occnrred  t( 
□gat  other  ititeresting 


"mbemiia  Hibenoma,"  what  was  the  meaning 
of  tbe  word,  and  he  promptly  replied  "  a  baod- 
fol  of  com ; "  but  he  called  it  in  the  Devonahin 
way-^sAumw.  So  the  WMd  is  pure  Celtic,  aal 
nndetatandib  B^V 

On  the  same  oocauon,  piomiung  me  an  eady 
spring  imm  tbe  seventy  of  the  weather  before 
dhnstinaa.  he  said  the  blackbirds  were  silent, 
and  that  foretokened  an  early  apring ;  "  for,"  said 
he,  "  when  the  blackbird  mage  before  Christmas 
she  will  cry  bef(«e  Candlwnaa."  This  piece  of 
folk  lore  comes  imra  Mxath. 


words  undergo  in  the  laps 
a  more  pertinent  example  than  that  aAbrded  in 
this  word  di*-»pirU.  As  now  used  it  means  to 
deprive  of  spirit ;  formerly  it  meant  the  direct  op- 
posite— to  mfuae  spirit.  Thus  Fuller  says  {Holy 
SjaA!,  book  iiL  chap,  iviii.  a.  6)  : — 

"  Pniportiim  tm  hmtr'i  nudHation  to  an  Kobt'i  rea^mjf 
0/  a  ilap/t  mMor.— TMs  makes  a  man  master  of  his 
learning,  and  dit'ipirUi  the  book  into  the  scholar." 

As  true  is  it  of  the  meaning  of  words  as  of 
words  themselves  — 


Dt  Jit.  Poet.  60-62. 
"  Aa  bma  on  tnes  do  with  the  taniiDg  year, 
Tbe  former  ftU,  and  othera  will  appear ; 
J^  so  It  ia  in  wonlt — one  word  will  rlae, 
Uok  graen,  and  floorish,  when  another  dies." 

Ebihtki)  Tkw,  M.A. 
Uab'b  Yeik. — It  has  pnixled  readers  to  under- 
stand what  is  meant  by  this  in  Bums's  poem  of 
"  Halloween."  Now  the  ex^anation  is  that  it 
denotes  the  year  171S,  being  ^lat  of  tbe  rebdlion 
of  which  tbe  Earl  of  Mar  was  the  chief  instigator. 

a. 

Edinburgh. 

The  Nile.— There  ia  not  the  slightest  allusioQ 
to  the  overflowing  of  the  Nile  in  the  Bible.  In 
consequence  of  thu  omisaian  many  think  that  the 
hooks  attributed  to  Mosea  could  not  have  been 
written  by  him,  aa  the  peculiar  drcumstances  of 
such  an  inundation  ana  tbe  various  eipeditttta 
resorted  to  by  tbe  inhabitants  of  Egypt  during 
its  continuance  must  liave  here  and  th^  unde- 
signedly cropped  out  in  the  sacred  narretiTe,  aa 
the  hiatoiiaa  was  resident  on  tbe  spot.  Perhaps, 
however,  there  was  at  that  time  no  overflow,  and 
the  river  was  kept  within  its  banks,  or  when  it 
roee  was  guided  into  channels  made  for  the  irriga- 
tica  of  the  land,  and  was  thus  under  complete 
control.  Many  learned  men  think  the  pyramids^ 
though  used  as  places  of  sepultuje  for  their  kingv 
were  munly  subservient  lor  tlus  purpose,  sno. 
that  the  biereglyphieal  inscriptions  will  some  day 
dear  up  the  obacnrity  that  at  praaent  hangs  over 


4*&Tn.HASca4,>71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


fhoae  appweutly  unless  BtrDcturet,  and  prove  that 
they  were  designed  for  utility.  Q,  E. 

Captain  Cook  THarsHES, — As  I  was  qnittinor 
cbuTch  one  Sunday  this  spring,  my  cleik  remejked 
that  the  winter  had  been  vecy  fatal  to  am&ll  bixds, 
especially  to  the  Captain  Cook  thrushes.  On  my 
e^ressing  my  .ignorance  ns  to  what  thej  were, 
he  informed  me  that  there  were  two  kmds  of 
tbrusheB,'."  one  we  call  storm-throstles  "  (t.  e.  mie- 
sel  thrushes),  "  the  others  Captun  Cook  thrushes, 
because  Captain  Cook  brought  them  here  from 
foreign  ^nrts."  la  the  notion  common,  and  bow 
£d  it  arise  P  I  should  add  that  the  clerk  in  ques- 
tion is  "no  scholar";  he  cannot  in  fact  read  or 
write,  and  ia  merely  m  ontamental  feature  of  our 
service,  retained  in  compliance  with  poptilar  pre- 
judice in  East  Lincolnshire,  where  people  have  not 
yet  learnt  to  regwd  the  posnbility  of  "  pars«i  and 
clerk  "  being  ever  disumted.  I  will  conclade  this 
discursiTe  note  by  remarking  anent  parish  clerks, 
that  although  Blackstone  says  they  must  be  "  suf- 
ficient for  their  office,"  I  strongly  recommend 
parsons  who  wish  to  teach  their  people  to  respond, 
to  set  up  on  the  first  opportunity  a  clerk  who  (for 
a  time  at  least)  must  nacessarUy  be  dumb. 

PXLAOnjS. 

Cb4txn  Sathtcf. — We  have  in  Wharfdala  a 
proverb  or  sayingthat  has  always  been  a  punle 
to  me.  It  is — "  Winnot  there  be  ikrikei  [shrieks] 
i'  Oberon  t"  It  is  used  when  anything  eitraor- 
dinuy  is  about  to  occur  that  is  likely  to  produce 
esntement.  We  have  a  village  in  Langstroth- 
dale  called  Hubberholm,  and  Oberon  may  be  s 
corruption  of  the  name.  But  I  am  not  aware  that 
any  event  ever  occurred  tliere  to  connect  it  with 
"esrikes."  Can  Oberon  mean  Holbom  in  Lon- 
don, and  is  the  saying  an  imported  oneP  The 
lata  William  Story  S  Linton  used  to  utter  it 
frequently,  and  he  was  of  gyp^  origin.  I  shall 
be  glad  of  information  as  to  whether  the  saying 
exists  in  other  localities,  Bad  in  what  particular 
form.  Stephht  jAOzaos. 

Fbiobt  of  CoLstHssui,  153B.  —  The  late  Dr. 
Can,  in  his  interesting'  Hiitory  of  CotcUngham,  the 
preparation  of  which  gave  him  a  vast  amount  of 
ttonble  and  involved  much  research,  was  unable 
to  trace  the  surname  of  one  of  the  ablKits,  having 
found  nothing  about  him  excepting  tbat  be  was 
'called  Adam. 

Havi&x  had  access  fa)  adeed  axecntedby  "A^in," 
with  the  consent  of  the  convent,  I  am  able  not 
only  to  snpply  this  omieoon,  but  to  famish  a  list 
of . the  names  of  the  consenting  monks. 

In  15S8  the  prior  of  Colungham  waa  Adam 
Blacader,  now  spelt  Blackadder ;  the  aub-piior 
ma  Alezaodei  Lyndsay. 

Honka :— James  Sp«as8,'Adam  Bansaman,  Wll- 
Imm  Lemodit,  James  Canta,  Jaoobw  Ke^tb, 


Willelmns  Huid  [Hood],  Willrimns  Bame,  Seoi- 
gius  Pylmer. 

The  BUmames  of  most  of  these  individuals  still 
exist  in  the  Merse.  The  Hoods,  Kedpaths,  Ler- 
months,  Runcimans,  Lyndsays,  Spens,  and  Black- 
adder*  are  common  enough.  A  person  of  the 
name  of  Pilmore  lives  at  present  in  Berwick-on- 
Tweed,  and  Barnes  was  recently  to  be  found  at 
Carham. 

Canta,  however,  is  puuling-  The  Whitadder, 
originally  called  in  old  charters  White-water,  flows 
into  the  Tweed  on  the  west  of  Gainslaw ;  and 
there  is  a  bridge  over  it  near  that  place  which  at 
present  is  called  "  Canty 's  Bridge,  the  origin  of 
which  name  I  have  never  seen  explained.  Hay 
it  not  have  been  so  called  from  some  ona  of  the 
nameof  CantorCantaP  J.  U. 

Bai,lad  Pkibtbrs'  Succrasioire. — In  one  of 
my  interviews  with  the  late  Mr.  Pitts,  the  ballad 
printer,  be  stated  that  his  business  was  a  veir 
andent  one.  He  was  the  successor  of  Iifarabail, 
who  succeeded  the  Aldermary  printer  (I  forget 
bis  name),  whose  bu^ness  h&d  descended  &om 
the  houses  of  Coles,  Vere,  Wright,  and  others. 
Mr.  Pitta's  statement  went  to  show  that  &om  the 
reign  of  Eliiabeth  to  that  of  William  IV.  there 
bad  bean  amongst  the  ballad  printera  of  London 

regular  hiaineM  descent.     I  (question  whether 

the  dxrve  reapecl^  the  "Eow"  can  compete 


with  the  "  Dials.' 


Jaiceb  Hehbt  Dixoit. 


Lioir  amixiscs. — The  shilling  of  George  IV. 
with  the  lion  on  the  obverse  is  not  only  the  sub- 
ject of  catch  bets  as  the  shilling  with  "  tvro  beada" 
on  It,  b&t  of  a  modern  superstition  that  a  penoB 
baring  a  lion  shilling  in  his  pocket  vrill  be  lucky 
and  not  want  money.  Many  respectable  persona 
in  the  metropolis  have  indulged  in  this  super- 
stition, and  of  late  years  lion  shillings  hava  been 
Bcaroe  in  ciiculation,  having  been  absorbed  for 
puiposee  of  superstition. 

Of  late  thev  are  coming  rather  flreely  into  csr- 
cnlation,  con^ering  their  date,  and  are  oftNi  in 
good  condition.  Speculatively  I  attribute  this  to 
the  prevalence  of  dangling  spade  guineas  and  other 
coin  amulets  at  the  watcn-oiain,  one  superstitiim 
grevrin^  ont  of  asotber. 

If  this  supposition  be  right  we  shall  Iiav»  an 
example  not  only  of  the  g>uwth  of  a  modem  aat' 
recent  superstition  in  our  day,  as  I  pointed  out 
to  the  £ttmolof|ical  Sixaety,  but  we  may  wibieea 
ita  quiat  extinctxni.  Huts  Clabbl. 

BlSXARlIE  AHTICIPATBD :  "  StBWIKQ'  TS  TXHB 

own  Qbatt." — I  havs  found  this  phrase  t^pCocl 
^  the  great  Chance^or  ctf  the  Hortb.  Oannaa. 
Confederation  in  an  unexpeeted  quarter,  IMt 
Ward's  Zandm  1^,  in  a  chapter  m  wUril  Ke 
exactly  describei  a  modem  Turkish  bath  al  tte  i 
Hummnms  in  Covent  Garden.  TheantboTt-ipeaft-MC 
ing  of  the  keeper  thereof,  says : — 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*S.T1I.  MiBCK*,'7l. 


"  He  nli<T*d  na  outof  aurpaigfttaiy  (theltpidariimJ) 
and  ciiTi«d  oato  our  dresaJng-rooni9,trhicb  gave  us  much 
nrreahment  ifUr  we  had  b«eii  lirvhis  in  our  em  gratqr. 

Of  course  tlie  phnisa  ia  from  some  cooker}-  book, 
but  thu  place  wkerein  it  is  found  makes  it  curious. 
Hera  is  an  exact  reference :  Z^idon  Spy,  part  ix. 
p.  219,  4th  edition,  London,  A.11.  vnccix. 

Huh  Fbiswell. 
74,  GrMt  BdskU  Street,  Bloonubuiy  Square, 


4Surrittf. 

COBBESFOirDKIIOB  BETWBBir  QUBSIT  Aim  ASD 

Madimb  vb  Maiktsnon.  —  The  Princeese  des 
Uruns  wrote  to  Madame  de  Maintenon,  on  De- 
cember 20, 1706  :— 

"  Je  mia  bien  filch^  de  ne  paa  voiu  aroir  fait  part  de 
deax  lettiH  que  j'aJ  refaei  dfputa  on  an.  La  premiire 
^loit  ponr  ni'avertir  que  viius  trahudet  IVtat  par  le  com- 
morca  rigU  que  Tona  avlei  avec  la  relne  Anne,  qui 
■arint  que  tdoi  Hiet  la  nieillenre  amie  qn'eQt  le  priiu 
d'OraDKE." 

TbiB  curious  passage,  wbicb  is  to  be  found  i 
Abb^  Millet's  Mimoira poliliquet el  miltlairetpou 

&&,  and  in  the  life  and  correspoadeDce  of  tbe  cotnn- 
rera  mayor  of  the  former  queen  of  Philippe  V., 
written  or  published  br  m;  friends  and  coUeagues 
Messrs.  Franfois  Combes  and  Geitroj'  +,  Beems  to 
'have  been  overlooked  by  the  Euglish  historians 
who  wrote  on  the  events  of  the  earl^  part  of  the 
eigbteenth  century.  Miss  Agnes  Stnckland  %  does 
laot  even  allude  to  the  alleged  correspondeace  of 
the  two  fem&Ie  rulers  of  England  and  France  at 
tbe  time ;  and  Lord  Stanhope,  who  dived  so  deeply 
into  the  State  papers  offices  of  the  two  countries  to 
make  a  valuable  addition  to  hie  former  works  on 
English  history  S,  mentions  only  one  letter  written 
in  1712  by  Louis  XIV.  to  Queen  Anne,  who  was 
much  pleased  with  it,  and  her  reply  entrusted  to 


•  Vol.  iii.  p  878,  Paru,  I77T,  6  tdIb.  13ma.  IHOM 
Hemoin  compiled  from  original  docnmenta  collected,  as 
expreased  on  the  title-page,  bf  "  Adrlen-Haurice,  due  de 
KoalUo,  mar^al  da  Fnuiee  et  nunistre  d'Stat,"  are 
generallj  quoted  undsr  hli  name. 

t  La  PrincoK  da    Umni,  atal  nr  la   Va  et  Hn 

Caraclirt  jKliiiqiie,  ia,  pp.  3E8,  S6£>.     Puui,  1SS6,  Sto 

Littrti  Budiitt  dt  la  PrmctiK  dt*  ITrintt,  recu^lliea  et 
pabli^patM.A.  Jeffroj,  p.279.  Paiii,  1B59,  8ro.  On 
tbB  9Ui  of  NoTember,  1711,  tbe  PrincesM  des  UrsiDa 
writea  again  to  Madime  de  Maintenon :  "  Youa  Q'eussiez 
pas  cm  ponrtdr  aimer  si  tendiemeut  la  reine  Anne."  &C., 
and  in  another  letter  of  Angnat  ST,  1714,  abe  says  to  tbe 

■Djet  de  la  teine  d'Augletam  ne  soient  que  trop  Tond^s." 
3ee  Xsttrtj  nMifo  de  Sf«  de  Moiiitoioa  ef  de  3f «  b /Vin- 
coH  del  Unim,  Noa.  CLXznz  et  ccxir,  t  It.  p.  403, 462. 
Paris,  1826,  4  ToU.  Bro. 

I  £•'«•  of  like  QMeai  af  Ea^aitd,  Tid.  iL  London, 
1847,  post  8va. 

%  Bitkny  of  England,  ampritins  ilu  Htign  of  Qattn 
Amu  mnaaiFtac*  of  UtnckLch.  XV.  p.  61i.  London, 
1870,8»o. 


AbbA  Gaultder.  Now,  can  any  of  your  readers 
favour  me  with  some  information  which  would 
lead  to  tbe  discovery  of  tbe  correspondence  be- 
tween your  queen  and  Madame  de  Maintenon,  if 
it  ever  existed  f  FBiNciBttiTB-MicHBL. 

Atbenmim  Qnb,  PaU  Hall. 

"  Apsbs  HOI  IE  D^LrsB " :  Akchbishop 
Lbiortor. — It  seems  strange  to  associate  tbe 
name  of  an  excellent,  self-denying  man  with  a 
saying  wbicb  breathes  the  very  essence  of  selfish- 
ness; but  be  only  uses  it  as  a  quotaUon.  Api^$ 
moi  it  dilugt  is  sometimes  attributed  to  Talloy- 
rand,  sometimes  to  Mettemich,  or  to  some  other 
worldly-wise  statesman.  The  sentiment  is.Ifear, 
only  too  common ;  but  I  seek  to  know  who  fiiat 
embodied  it  m  these  vords.  or  in  tbe  analogous 
phrase  quoted  by  Leig-hton  {Commentary  onFirist 
Epittla  i4  Peter,  chap.  iii.  ver.  8.)    He  says ; — 

"  But  vile  selfiahncea  undoes  ns.  few  or  nfMie  looking 
ftartber;  if  tbemaelve*  and  tbein  mtgbt  be  secured,  bow 
many  would  rcfcard  tittle  wbat  became  of  tbe  rest;  as 
one  said,  Whr»  I  am  dtai,  let  tkt  loorld  btfirrd." 

Who  is  the  author  bei«  quoted?  I  have  not 
Mr,  West's  edition  of  Leighton  to  refer  to. 

J.  Dixos. 

[Solonf;  «ffo  as  April  1851,  tbe  late  Douglas  Jerrold 
(I"  S.  iU.  399)  aUted  that  tbe  French  mot  waa  not  Met- 
temicb'a,  but  (wherever  she  got  it)  bad  been  spoken  long 
before  by  Uadame  Pompadoni.  A  few  pages  further  on 
(Hid.  p.  397),  Sir  George  Lewis  and  others  ahowed  that 
it  had  dncended  to  na  from  the  Greeb.  Mr.  M*ckk:izib 
Walcott  Bubeeqnenlly  pointed  out  (!«  3.  v.  619)  a  pas- 
aage  In  Cicero,  Ot  Finitmi,  in  which  he  reTera  to  the 
Greek  proverb  i  and  afterwards  (si.  16)  showed  ns  that 
HUloD,  in  his  Chtirtk  GavtnmnU  (Bk.  i.  ch.  v.),  had 
told  bow  cruel  Tiheriaa  would  wiab — 

"  When  I  die,'.let  tbe  earth  be  rolled  in  aames."] 

Bacok's  Qukeh  ComfBBLSHiP. — In  the  "  IJfe 
of  Lord  Bacon,"  prefixed  to  Rawley's  JteeutdUUio, 
folio,  1061, 1  find  the  following  :— 

"In  thia  way,  be  waa,  after  a  white,  sworn,  of  tbe 
Queen's  Counaell  Learned,  Extraordinary  ;  A  grace,  (If 
1  eiT  not,)  scarce  known  before." 

I  have  preserved  the  punctuation,  &c.  exactly 
ftsitstjmds. 

Can  any  reader  of  "  N.  &  Q."  inform  ma 
whether  this  honorary  degree,  or  compliment,  baa 
before  or  since  the  time  of  Bacon  been  conferred  P 
or  whether  it  is  merely  tbe  origin  of  the  Queen's 
Counsel  at  tbe  modem  bar  ?  C.  R.  P. 

O.  Oahphaussk.  —  I  hare   an  old  painting 

nied,  on  a  punted  tablet  (part  of  the  picture), 

U-.  (^ampbansen,  Stockbolm."  When  did  he 
liveP  WoB  he  noted  P  Any  information  about 
this  artist  will  be  most  thankfully  received  by 

Lindozs  Abbey,  Newborgh-on-Tay. 

[In  Brran'a  Diet  ofPahUtn  (1840)  It  is  stated  that 
there  are  aeveral  pictures  iu  England  by  Kamphujaen  or 
Camphoyaeo,  but  that  thev  cannot  be  by  ttie  painter 
bearing  the  same  name  wiui  the  Initials  T.  H.,  who  was 


«s;Tn.»awfflt7io  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


189 


have  noUeed  him.  The  snbjecta  of  his  paiDtinga  ire  gtoS' 
ral|f  •rall-waaded  landsopca.] 

MiBS  Fasbes's  Eouhb  m  Qsseit  Street.  — 
Can  toj  of  joat  correBpoudeoto  infarm  me  nbut 
•tna  the  number  of  the  house  in  Gteen  Street^ 
Orocvenar  Square,  inhabited  bj  Miu  F&iren,  the 
celebrated  uMreas,  in  1796  P  Lord  Orford  mentionB 
BuppiDg  there,  in  the  dith  volume  of  hia  collected 
Letter*  (p.  415);  and  MiBsBeny,  in  het  Journal, 
often  refers  to  it  When  I  was  a  lad  of  seven- 
teen I  was  acquainted  with  the  late  Lord  Gar- 
bampton  (the  Luttrell  of  Wilkes's  da;),  who  was 
then  (bb  he  uid,  to  Au  tatitfaeUon)  become  "  the 
Venerable  E^rl of  Carhampton,"  adding, "  See  what 
one  gains  bj  living  long.  He  was  oneof  the  most 
agreeable  men  I  ever  met  with.  At  a  laterpeiiod 
I  was  intimate  with  Lord  Berwick  (the  diploma- 
tiat).  Both  theae  pereona  used  to  ram  of  the 
talent  of  the  actress,  and  Lord  B,  often  aaid,  "Ah  I 
those  charming  suppers  in  Green  Street,  where 
one  used  to  meet  Slarehal  Conway,  Ladj  Ailes- 
bo^,  Mrs.  Darner,  Oen.  Burgoyne,  Fitzpatrick, 
aodahoat  of  all  the  plea.<umtest  people  in  London," 
— he  added,  "  at  the  how  window  houw  in  Green 
Street"  But  there  are  now  more  than  one  bow- 
wiodow  boose  ia  that  street.  She  moved  from 
tbence  to  be  married  to  the  Earl  of  Derby,  May  1, 
1797,  at  23,  Oroavenor  Square— a  bouse  tbe  tAef 
^Tauvre  of  the  architecture  of  Adam,  and  enriched 
ivith  ceilings  painted  by  Angelica  Kauffman  and 

Lord  Orford  speaks  of  thai,  too,  in  hia  letters 
to  Lady  Osaory,  deaeribing  a  ball  there.    (Vol.  i, 

£61.)  There  I  have  seen  Mias  Farren  (Lady 
erby)  receiving,  at  chsrminf^  music  parties,  the 
world  of  fashion  with  an  elegance  and  grace  that 
many  of  them  might  have  done  well  to  atady. 
That  beautiful  house,  I  am  told,  is  now  pulled 
down,  from  some  vandalism  of  Xiord  Westmin- 
ster, who  is  stud  to  have  wished  all  bis  houses, 
as  the  leaaea  fell  in,  built  on  one  model  The 
number  of  the  houae  in  Green  Street  might  be 
found  from  some  old  "  Court  Guide"  or  the  taz- 

Stherers*  books;  but  I  have  no  meana  of  access  to 
eee.      Can  any  of  your  correspondents  oblige 
meP 

TT^ther  Jesse,  in  hia  entertaining  book,  nor  P. 
CoDDingbam,  notice  it,  though  ^ey  name  the 
abodes  of  Nell  Gwynn,  Mrs.  Oldfield,  and  others 
who  have  done  leas  honour  to  the  drama  than 
Hiiabeth  Farren.  H.  W.  L. 

BomB,  ?eb.  16,  IS71. 

[HiasFuTcn  naidedat  Na.  16,  Green  Street,  Qroavenor 
Square.  Vidt  Boyle'a  Nev  FaMhiaiabU  Onirl  and  Countiy 
Sit*,  1796, 1797.] 

Behjahiit  FsiSKLis'a  Lidkel  Wbbith. — In 
tiio  Letlert  from  the  United  Sate*,  Cuba,  and 
Canada,  by  ue  Hon.* Amelia  M.  Uurray  (London, 
1856,  8vo,  ToL  i.  Letter  xvi.  pp.  278,  i!79.  Wash- 


ington, Jan.  12,  1856;    see  the  "Visit  to  Mr. 
Mat«j"),  the  following  passage  occurs : 

"In  hi«  drairiog-rooni  there  ia  an  inlenatin?  fdetara, 
Mmted  in  the  time  of  Lonia  XVI.,  of  tbe  King  and 
Queen  aittinc  ia  their  circle,  white  aome  ga^  ladiea  of  the 
eaort  crown  Benjimia  Fnnklin  with  ■  wreath  orianreL'* 
I  will  be  very  thankful  for  the  artist's  name,  if 
known.  Isaac  Shbabu. 

Highbury. 

OovBBiroBS  OP  Jamaica  :  Hancocks  of  Coub- 
HARTIH.— Can  you  or  any  of  your  correapondenta 
kindly  inform  me  as  to  who  were  the  governors 
of  Jamaicafrom  I7S0tol760f  I  should  also  like 
to  know  where  I  could  see  a  genealogy  (^  the 
family  spoken  of  by  Burke  as  "the  ancient 
&miljof  Hancocke of  Combmartin in Devonsbire, 
to  whom  arms  were  granted  by  Cooka  in  1552." 
O.C. 

[The  GoTemon  of  Jamaica  were— Sir  Ificholu  Lawes, 
KnL,  17!8i  Henry  Dnte  of  PorlUDd,  1722  i  Major-Gen, 
»„>..-    u„_,„  .rroo.    i-iiy  ConnlnKham,  Em,  1785; 
'SB  ;_Chariu  Knowles,  Ew|., 


liDbeit  Hnoter, 


Hamfdbn  FAinLT.~The  last  male  descendant 
of  John  Hampden  seems  to  have  been  hia  neat- 
grandson,  Richard,  who  died  a.  p.  July  27,1728, 
and  was  buried  at  Hampden.  But  John  Hamp- 
den's uncle.  Sir  Edmund  Hampden,  of  Prest- 
wood,  had,  with  other  isaue,  a  eon,  Edmund,  who, 
in  bis  turn,  bad  ewftt  eona — Edmund,  Thomaa, 
John,  Kobert,  lUchard,  Aleiander,  Henry,  Leo- 
nard. Of  these,  so  far  aa  I  have  beui  able  to 
ascertain,  only  Richard  and  Henry  married.  I 
can  find  no  iaaue  of  Henry's  marriage;  but  Richard 
had  fovr  sons — Edmund,  Richard,  Griffi^,  and 
John.  Of  these  I  have  found  nothing  beyond 
their  names.    I  should  add,  however,  that  my 


There  are  Hampdens  in  our  own  day  claiming 
to  derive  from  this  ancient  family.  When  can 
their  descent  be  traced  P  I  want  to  identify  an 
Alice  Hampden,  who  must  have  been  bom  about 
1700 — 1710,  and  who  was  atill  living,  a  widow, 
in  1773.  The  name  of  AUce  occurs  in  the  pedi- 
gree, as  I  have  it,  four  times ;  first  in  the  person 
of  a  sister  of  Sir  Reginald  de  Hampden,  living 
1333,  and  lastly  jn  that  of  the  granddaughter  of 
Sir  Edmund  Hampden,  of  Prestwood,  already 
alluded  to.  This  last  Alice  must  have  lived  about 
the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century,  and  canno^ 
therefore,  be  identified  vrith  the  ALce  for  whom 
I  am  seeking.  W.  M.  H.  C. 

OuK  HcALpnr.— FerCMving  lately  in  your 
columns  some  notice  of  the  supposed  existence  of 
a  clan  McAl^in,  may  I  ask  any  of  your  readers 
conversant  with  the  subject  to  say  whether, 
beyond  mere  conjecture  or  haiy  tiatiition,  there 


l«d 


KOTES  AND  QU££IES. 


£4«&nLMuaii4,-n 


ia  anj  aathori^  vlutever  for  tba  Btatement  Uikt 
mich  a  clou  ever  h&d  a  "  local  habitation  and  a 
naaw  "  P  The  whole  histoir  of  tiie  Scotch  dacs 
aeemi  as  mist;  as  the  gummite  of  the  Scotch 
mountuns.    iBappoaa,  if  theMcAlf' 


_ ^,      ,  Upinsi 

t  clan,  that  the;  would  have  a  chief,  and  that 
the  chieftuna  would  have  a  pedigree,  and  that 
there  would  be  somewhere  a  chieftaiD'a  castle  or 
Btronshold.  But  where  ia  there  anj  aathoritv 
for  ■ffirming  that  the  fllcAlpins  ware  a  clan,  with 
a  <^ieftain  at  their  head,  who  had  a  pedinee 
capable  of  beinK  verified,  and  a  cnatle  ia  which 
he  reeided  ?  The  entire  etorj  seems  ni^ihical. 
Sir  Walter  Scott  raeDtiona  the  name  in  hts  Lady 
tf  Aa  Lak»,  it  is  true ;  but  that,  though  very 
poetical,  affbrdi  no  evidence  of  the  existence  of 
the  dan.  At  the  tonoh  of  the  historical  iuTesti- 
gatOT,  I  fear,  the  whole  fabric  of  invention  will 
TKiiah  into  "  thin  air."  ENacmXB. 

Uebxb,  Bishop  op  Casliblx,  ieinip.  Rtchabd 
H. — Is  not  the  high-Torj  speech  of  this  bishop 
d«»ded  to  be  apocrrphal  F  (see  "  N.  &  Q."  4'»  8. 
vii.  86.)  Is  there  anj  earlier  authoritj  for  it  than 
Holinshed  P  Hume  quoles  from  (Ac  jelomoas  Sir 
John  Hajwarde,  later  still.    The  qnartif 


for  flic  Tapah-  of  inMramimta  of  hnibandir ;  or,  M  stit«d 
in  ToiiiUiu's  Cow  DiaHmary,  "  ■  right  otttnanla  to  take 
wood  to  repair  plooglu,  cirU,  and  harrowa,  and  for  ntk- 
ing  rakea,  forks,  &<:.    See  !  Cmm.  35."] 

Thb  Foppa  Sai,  OS  QuuN  of  Hasui^B.— 

The  Poppa*  Bal,  a  priaowa  of  andent  timsa,  whoae 
to  the  pn)yer1\ 


paarian  notes   (made  jeBTS  ago)  lead 
offliclusion  that  this  speech  is  a  late  forger;. 
should  be  glad  to  &id  that  Shakespeare's  Hfa-like 
portrait  is  reall;  from  the  life.         Jobk  Addis. 

Bnatington,  ne*r  Littlebampton.  Siueex. 

HvTTON  anu  Capibs. — Will  an;  person  oob- 
Tersant  in  culioerr  lore  inform  me  at  what  period 
eaptrt  were  first  introduced  as  an  accompamment 
to  boiled  7nutton  at  the  dioner-table  F  I  am  led  to 
make  this  oueiy  from  Btumbling  on  the  following 
passage  in  Shakespere's  Twelfth  Night,  Act  L  9c.  2, 
where  that  saltatory  knight,  Sir  Andrew  Ague- 
cheek,  ejcclaims,  in  Uie  pnde  of  bis  heart: — 

"  'Faith,  I  can  cat  a  caper." 
To  whkh  boast  Sir  Tob;  Belch  gives  this  sig- 
nificant reply : — 

"  Aad  I  em  eat  Iht  mntfon'tti  't." 

T.  C.  8. 

"  Owi !  THAT  LovMT  TffB  BODiMO  Skt."— Who 
wrote  these  fine  lines,  which  have  reference  to 
Hk  murder  of  Mr.  Weare  P  The;  may  be  found 
in  7^  Lore  (p.  38),  published  by  Sharpe,  Rcca- 
dillj,  1830.  SixPHER  JicxeoK. 

pLOuaH-BOTX. — House-bate  ugnifies,  I  believe, 
an  allowance  of  necessary  timber  out  of  the  lord's 
wood  for  the  repur  of  a  house;  hedge  or  bay 
(haia)  bote  for  the  repur  of  fences ;  fiie-bote  for 
'Bte-wood.  But  whftt  is  the  meaning  of  pkngh- 
ImteF  Does  it  signify  an  allovrance  of  wood  by 
ttie  lord  to  a  lessee  for  the  repair  or  making  i^ 
plDughe  f  A.E.L. 

[  PloDgh-boti  ia  tiie  «ood  or  timbar  sUnred  to  a  teoatt 


nie  Poppi 

laaaged  aovereigiilj  ba*  give     ..  ___  ^__  _ 

'  Poma  Bal  Ki  lUj,'  or,  Qosen  Poppa'g  government, 
the  E*ipnU."— Col.  Tod'a  AnnaU  of  Eij-AttUin,  i.  BIu. 

What  is  known  regarding  the  capita!  and  times 
of  Queen  Poppa,  proverbial  for  her  miadoings  ii) 
IndiaP  R.  H.  W.  Ema 

StaroToaa,  naar  Exeter. 

Shakbsfeabx:  BpiTAPa  on  Sib  Thohab 
SiAKLBT.— Drake,  in  /Stdketpmre  amd  hit  Timti, 

quotes  an  epitaph  said  to  be  written  by  Shake- 
speare on  the  tomb  of  Sir  Thomas  Stanley  in  Tong 
church,  Salop,  on  the  authority  of  Sir'W.  Bug- 
dale,  commencing — 

"  Aske  who  lice  hen,  bnt  do  not  weepe : 
He  fa  Dot  dead,  he  doth  hot  ilespe,^  &c. 
conclnding — 

"  Stanley,  fbr  nliom  thia  etands,  ahall  aCand  in  heaven.* 

Do  these  lines  still  remain  on  the  monument, 

and  has  the  authorship  been  further  autbenti- 

catod  P  Tbokas  E.  WiKumaToiT. 

A  Spitteit  Laikd. — What  is  the  origin  of  thia 
Scotch  expression  P  In  illustration  of  its  use  I 
maj  pve  Ae  following  anecdote : — 

"Dake  Oiarles  of  Qneenaberry,  wlioae  ■ppellalion  of 
'Guid  Duke'  is  not  yet  forgotten  in  Damfrieashire,  and 
hie  Duchess  '  Prior'a  Kitty,'  were  once  driving  from 
Drumlanrig  CaaCle  to  DumfHea  on  an  eleotion  day,  and 
on  paaaing  Cloaebnra  «sw  Sir  Jainea  Kickpatriok,  wlio 
waa  on  the  opposite  side  of  politioa,  haBtenim;  on  before 
them,  when  the  Dnchess,  who  seems  to  Iiave  been  a  kesn 
politician,  called  to  her  husband, 'There  goes  Jamie  Kirk- 
patrick  \  order  the  postilion  to  drive  quickly,  or  Jamie 
will  lick  the  batter  off  our  bread.'  Upon  which  the 
Duke  mildly  replied,  '  Mind,  my  dear,  that  the  KLtii- 
pstiicka  were  belled  knights  of  Closabam  when  n-c  vrcm 
but  apitten  t  Lairds  of  Dramhmrig." 

This  lady  was  celebrated   for   eitraordiDRry 
beauty  and  wit  by  Pope,  Swift,  and  pHrticalarly 
by  ^or,  in  bis  well-known  ballad  beginning — 
"  Thoa  Kithr,  beaotifnl  and  young. 
And  wild  as  colt  untamed." 
At  tbe  fuDeral  of  the  Princera  Dowager  of  Wales, 
1772,  her  grace,  walking  as  one  of  the  aasistMita 
to  the  chief  monmer,  occasioned  these  versee  by 
Horace  Walpole,  Earl  of  Orford  P— 

To  many  a  KMj  Love  hia  ear 

Would  for  a  day  engage  i 

Bnt  Prior's  Kitty,  ever  Mr, 

ObtiOacd  It  for  an  age." 

S.L. 


*  Query,  Pdpf.  or  the  wicked  qoeen 

ft  Thit  ia,  a  laird  of  lower  nnk 

(tf^--'    "■■"•ieMjy)  h«,  "^IttMi, 


in  life.    Jamicaou  \^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


"HxBO  or  TKB  WiKMiFft-PAir.''— In  Bknmt 
TempMt,  bf  Bellew,  I  find  this  tentence :  "  Here 
{Huuptou  Court  chapel)  the  in&nt  heco  of  the 
varmiDg'iMui  reeeived  tbe  rite  of  baptism."  Wlio 
wu  Hum  ^  hero,"  and  whj  the  name  F  Will  any 
of  70QI  numerous  readers  Undlj  enlif btes  an 

lanoBAxna. 

[Tha  allndoa  1>  to  the  birth  af  Jamea  FraDck  Bd«>id 
Stoait,  tbe  ton  of  Janns  IL  b;  Kary  Beatriot  of  Modcni. 
At  tba  tima  of  hu  birtii  tbere  waa  il!-fbnnded  rumoiu 
that  tha  inbnt  piuice  wu  mppoaititioas,  and  introdtxnd 
-IntD  the  queen  a  chamber  in  ■  vannlng-pui,  that  he 
might  exclode  the  pchteeeseB,  Uary  and  Ame,  from  the 
throne.  Conenlt  IfaiaialBj's  Hiitery  of  Exglmd,  il.  308, 
«d]t.lB56,  and  Strickland'e  Quint  o/fiubwf,  Ti.  21S- 
-S48,  edit.  1854.  AccoTdhiE  to  tha  latter  imter.the  prince 
wu  hapdaed  tn  the  ehapei  of  SL  Jamea'i.] 

WimBL,  OB  Wtnuell. — Amongst  Lozd&Ie's 
MSS.  I  find  that  a  Thomas  Wynnell,  who  resigned 
<a  abandoned  the  vicarage  ot  Leek  in  1662,  was 
the  author  of  X  Coverumter'i  Flea  for  Infant  Bup- 
Htm.  Now  Bliss,  in  hU  Athata  Oxonientet,  gires 
one  Thomas  Wynnell  as  sometime  minister  of 
Aakarwell,  Dorsetshire,  at.  21,  a.d.  1622,  Battler 
of  Brasenoie,  Rector  of  Cranham,  Olosterebire, 
1643,  author  of  Cbwenonf *  PUafor  Infants,  1642  ; 
and  another  Thomas  Winnel,  M.A.,  near  of  Leek, 
ietrp.  OUver,  author  of  Su^imtioa  Ditcutied, 
Iioiidon,  Oct.  1657.  Qucere,  ore  not  these  one  aud 
the  same  P  and  where  can  I  meet  with  an  j  of  bis 
or  th«r  works  ?  Johh  Sleigh. 

Tbambridge,  Bekewell. 


THE  "  BLUE  LAWS  "  OF  CONSECTICUT. 

(I"  S-  xi.  321 J  4""  S.  vi.  485;  vii.  16,  64.) 
By  the  courtesy  of  your  correspondent  NiiPHRiTK 
X  have  had  the  opportunity  of  carefully  examining 
-tbe  published  Cade  of  the  so-called  "  Blue  Laws," 
quotedby  him  (4"',8.  vi.485).  Ihaye  also  searched 
in  the  other  authorities  within  my  reach,  and  will 
now,  with  your  permission,  as  succinctly  as  may 
be,  present  the  results  of  my  inquiries. 

"nia  Tolume  in  question  baa  the  title  aa  tol- 

"  He  Code  of  16.')D,  being  a  Cont^latlon  of  the  earliest 
liMra  and  Ordara  of  the  General  Court  of  ConDecticnt ; 
also  the  Conalitntion  or  Ciril  Compact  entered  into  and 
ad(H>ted  by  the  Toiros  of  Windsor,  Hartford,  and  Wethers- 
fidd  hi  1638-9.  To  which  ia  added  some  Extracla  from 
Oe  Laws  and  Judicial  Proceedinga  of  New-Haven  Colony, 
coomoDly  called  Blut  Loki.  Harttbrd,  publiahed  by 
SUaa  Aodnu,  1825." 

On  tbe  TOTeise  of  tbe  title  ia  a  certificate  of  the 
«iitiy  of  the  work  in  tha  office  of  the  district  of 
Coinectieat,  securing  the  copyright 

The  book  is  a  thin  poet  8yo  ot  127  pages :  eight 
fHjgea  of  title  and  contents,  nineteen  pagea  con- 
iif"Trg  the  Conatitution  of  1638,  e^bcy-three 
pages  of  the  Connecticut  Code  of  1650,  ana  MTen- 


Newha 

Tbe  adrertasement  states  Qui  tbe  work  — 
"  C<mtaiiM  an  exact  copy  ef  the  CoBatituUon  and  Code, 
taken  fiom  tbe  orliJBal  reoords  in  tbe  Offlae  at  the  Secre- 

taty  for  the  State,  pieaerring  the  andaat  orthogr^by.' ' 

It  is  further  stated,  that  the  firet  leriiion  of 
these  laws  was  never  before  printed. 

No  corroborative  evidence  is  presented  of  the 
genuineness  of  the  documents ;  but  the  internal 
evidence  is  decidedly  in  favonr  of  their  authen- 
ticity. It  ia  a  little  remarkable  that  your  corre- 
spondent J.  H.  T.,  writing  on  this 'subject  in 
April,  185fi  (l"  8.  li.  321),  from  the  State  Ubrary 
in  Hartford,  m  which  town  the  volume  before  ua 
was  issued,  should  have  altogether  ignored  it 

There  is  a  rude  frontispece — a  woodcut  of  a 
constable  aeizing  a  tobacco  "taker"{  but  this  is 
a  modem  production,  the  costumes  being  those  of 
the  early  part  of  the  present  century. 

Now  let  us  see  what  light  we  can  bring  to  bear 


thersfield,  on  the  river  Connecticut^  were  the  Brat 
settlements  in  the  country,  and  in  the  year  1638 
the  inhabitants  met  in  public  assembly,  and  in 
their  own  language  did  "assodate  and  conjoine 
themselves  to  bee  as  one  publique  «<afe  or  com- 
vumtDMith,"  and  laid  down  the  priocipleB  of  their 
constitution. 

Newhaven,  on  Long  Island  Sound,  was  colo- 
nised in  1633;  and  on  June  4,  1630— 
"  All  the  free  |Jantere  asaembled  together  in  a  f^ersl 
meMinge,  t«  conanlt  aboat  eettling  civil  goveraowDt 
accoTduig  to  God,"  leu. 

Tbe  GoBnecticut  Code,  founded  on  the  consti- 
tution of  1686,  was  completed  and  issued  in  1660. 
The  Newhaven  Code  was  framed  in  166S,  and 
printed  in  Ixindon  the  following  year.  The  Con- 
necticut Code,  it  is  stated,  was  not  printed  until 
1675,  from  a  revision  in  1672.  Non,  in  neither 
of  these  codes  are  there  the  slightest  traees  of  tbe 
absurdities  usually  attached  to  the  idea  of  tiie 
"Blue  Lawa"  There  are  no  puhibitions  against 
any  perton  "running  on  the  Sabbath  day,  or 
vralking  in  his  garden  or  elsewhere,  except  rever- 
ently"; nor  is  anyone  prevented  from  "travel- 
ling, cooking  victuals,  making  beds,  sweerang 
bouse,  cutting  hair,  or  shaving  on  the  Sabhata 
day."  Nor  is  any  woman  denied  the  privileRe  of 
"kissing  her  child  on  the  Sabbath  or  fasting  day." 
A  husband  is  not  prevented  from  kissing  his  wi£a 
Sabbath  or  week  day,  wlien  and  where  he  pleases. 
In  fact,  in  the  Comieeticnt  Code  there  are  no  laws 
at  all  bearing  on  the  Sabbath.  My  surmise,  there- 
fore, that  ue  quotations  usually  given  are  a 
literary  imposture,  is  fully  bome  oirt  by  the  ascer" 
tained  facts.  The  origin  of  tbe  fraud  is  to  be 
found  in  A  Omtral  Hidory  of  ComteUait  by  a 
aenlbmm  of  tke  Flwmee,  Londoq,  1761.    The 


192 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*  S.  VII.  Maech  i,  7U 


author  ia  aaid  to  have  l>een  the  Rar.  Sftmuel 
Petsrs  (a  Tory  and  Loyalut),  who  left  the  colooy 
at  the  breaking  out  of  the  disturb aocea  in  1774, 
and  TevBDged  himself  on  his  compatriots  bj  the 
fabrication  of  the  spurious  documents  in  question. 

And  now,  haying  seen  what  the  two  Connec- 
ticut Codes  are  not,  let  me  as  briefl;  as  pos^ble 
state  what  they  w^y  are.  They  are  very  valu- 
able illustrolions  of  me  tone  and  temper  of  nund 
of  the  stem  {aoneeis  who  went  out  to  people  the 
wilderness,  and  whose  customs,  maoDers,  and  civil 
and  reli^ous  opiaions  have  been  the  normal  types 
after  which  the  great  Americaa  commonwealth 
has  been  modelled.  The  founders  of  New  Eajrlaod 
were  resolute  God-fearing  men  of  the  Roundhead 
stamp.  In  the  foundation  of  their  institutions 
the  following  principles  lie  at  the  base :  — 

1.  Perfect  equality  and  matual  responrihility 
amonffst  all  the  members  of  the  commonwealth. 

3,  The  identityoftheChuTch  and  the  StaU,  with 


3,  The  obligation  of  the  civil  ma^stiate  to 
enforce  ecclesiastical  disdpline. 

4.  That  the  law  should  take  cognizance  of  im- 
morality as  well  as  of  crime. 

These  principles  were  logically  and  relentlessly 
carried  out  into  practice :  sometimes  making  one 
shudder  at  the  nithless  sacrifice  of  human  life, 
and  at  other  times  roiainr  a  amila  at  the  ludicrous 
minuteness  with  which  the  law  intermeddled  with 
private  afiaiiB. 

(1)  The  enactments  of  the  Coda  breathe  the 
true  spirit  of  freedom  and  equal  rights,  the  system 
of  manhood  amffrage  and  annual  elections  contain- 
ing the  genu  of  the  future  institutions  of  the 
United  States.  Several  of  these  laws  are  far  in 
advance  of  their  age,  such  as  voting  by  written 
papers,  freedom  of  debtors  from  arrest  except  in 
case  of  fraud,  &c. 

(3)  The  Word  of  God  was  held  to  be  supreme 
in  all  casee  not  otherwise  provided  for  by  the  law, 
and  all  enactments  were  supposed  to  be  founded 
thereon.  Unfortunately  it  was  the  Mosaic  Code, 
rather  than  the  Ooap^,  which  was  resorted  to. 
Hence  the  punishment  of  death  was  awarded  to 
"  idolatry,  witchcraft,  blasphemy,  and  adultery," 
for  each  of  which  Scriptural  authority  is  quoted. 
Young  persons  above  sixteen  "  cursing  or  smiting 
father  or  mother,  or  not  obeying  their  commantu 
after  warning  and  chastisement,"  were  to  be  put 
to  death.  Man-stealing  or  ladnapping  was  a 
capital  crime.  Sternness  might  be  pardoned  in  a 
state  of  sodety  where  it  was  necessary  to  provide 
"  that  there  shall  bee  a  guard  of  ^enty  men 
every  Sabbath  and  lecture  day,  compleat  in  theire 
armes,  in  each  severall  towneuppon  the  river." 

(3  &  4)  The  ecclenastical  £scipline  enforced 
by  the  magiatrate  descended  to  the  ordinary  in- 
tercourse of  private  life  in  the  most  minute  par- 


ticulam.  At  a  court  held  at  Newhaven,  May  1, 
1660,  two  young  persons,  Jacob  Merline  and 
Sarah  Tuttie,  were  brought  before  the  governor: 
the  charge  being  that,  after  some  chaff,  Jacob 
hod  taken  away  Sarah'a  gloves.  The  record  goes 
an  to  state  that— 

*■  Sirah  dniied  him  to  give  her  tbe  gXortB ;  to  which 
he  uuvcred  he  wotdd  do  »,  if  she  wonld  give  him  a 
kfngj  opon  which  they  ut  down  together,  bii  anoe 
being  kbout  her  woiate,  and  ber  anna  upon  bia  sbontder 
Lbont  his  nwka ;  and  he  kj swd  her,  mnd  aht  kjssftd 
-.    .     ..   ..       jnotber;  continning  in  thispos- 


jr  they  kTMed 
ibonthalf  an  hi 


For  this  grave  offence,  the  governor  read  the 
young  people  a  severe  lecture,  and  fined  each  of 
them  twenty  shillings  and  costs. 

Some  of  the  cases  are  very  sad.  One  given  hy 
Cotton  Mather  relates  of  a  man  jn  Weymout^ 
about  1050:  — 

"This  man  lived  In  abominable  ■dallerieai  bat  God 
■t  length  emote  him  with  a  Palsie.  His  dead  Palide  was 
■ccompany'd  with  a  Quick  Comcienee,  which  compelled 
him  to  confeu  his  crimei." 

By  tbe  law  of  the  country  adultery  was  then  a 
capital  offence,  and  this  poor  wreteh,  evidently 
insane,  was  actually  convicted  and  hung. 

One  of  the  greatest  biota  on  the  fair  fame  of  the 
Puritan  New  Englonders  is  their  persecution  of 
the  Quakers.  There  is  only  one  authenticated 
caae  of  Quakers  being  put  to  death,  but  that  is 
bad  enough.  The  usual  sentence  on  refractory 
Quakers — who,  no  doubt,  gave  trouble — waa  ban- 
ishment on  pain  of  death.  In  1069,  some  Quakers 
who  hi^d  been  banished  returned  to  Boston,  and 
were  condemned  hy  a  general  court  to  death. 
Two  of  them  were  executed.  A  great  clamour 
and  excitement  was  raised,  and  the  law  was 
repealed.  An  almanack  printed  by  the  Quakea 
in  Pennsylvania  in  1694  has  the  foUowing  entry : 

"  Since  tbe  EnKlish  la  Nev  England  banged  tliA 
countiymen  for  religion yean  36." 

One  word,  before  1  close,  on  the  "  Blae  Laws." 
Why  ore  they  called  A&u,  and  by  whom  was 
the  name  conferred  P  There  ia  nothing  in  tbe 
text  of  the  Codes  throwing  light  on  the  subject. 
In  the  Hartford  publication  the  pages  headed 
"  Newhaven  Antiquities  or  Blue  Laws "  are  not 
laws  at  aU.  They  are  simply  extracts  from  tha 
registers  of  tbe  court,  detailing  trials  and  sen- 
tences. That  bbie  is  a  contraction  of  bloorkf,  I  do 
not  believe;  nor  is  there  any  reason  to  auppoas 
the  term  originated  in  the  colour  of  the  paper 
covers,  like  our  "Blue  Books."  The  i>robability 
is  that,  like  the  pretended  lawa  to  which  it  was 
applied,  the  term  waa  invented  by  the  reverend 
fabricator;  but  na  I  have  not  seen  his  woric,  I 
caimot  verify  this.  I  have  to  apologise  for  the 
length  to  wluch  I  have  been  lea,  though  a  very  i 
interesting  treatise  might  he  writttm  on  tb«  ' 
subjeiA. 


4>k  SL  Til.  U ASOH  i. 


1.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


193 


It  M  deurable  to  plf>c«  on  record  in  the  eDdoiing 
pag«8  of  "  N.  &  Q,,"  once  for  til,  the  true  etete- 
ment  of  fttcta  about  which  there  hu  been  such 
an  amount  of  misrepreeenlation  and  faloebood. 

J.  A.  PlOTOH, 

Sandjknoite,  WavertrM^  our  LlTerpooL 


EC8TATICS:  THE  "ECSTATICA"  OF  CAXDAEO. 
(4"S.  tL475;  Til  21,  123.) 

The  most  elaborate  account  of  the  Ecdatica  of 
CaldsTO  is  tbat  contained  in  the  following' nork: — 
"  Letter  rrom  (be  Earl  of  SbrswBbiiry  to  AmbrcHe  Lille 
Pbillfpp),  Em.,  deacriptive  of  tbe  Eeatfttici  of  Caldaro 
ind  the  Addolorala  of  CaprUni.  Being  ■  Second  Edi- 
tion of  ihree  sDoceeHive  Tislta  la  the  Ecatatiea  of  Saneo- 
vino,  in  Ua;  1842."  8vo.  London  (C.  Dolman),  1612. 
An  article  based  u^n  this  book,  and  with 
notices  of  earlier  Ecetatice  and  Stigmatists,  will  be 
found  in  the  Church  of  England  Quarterly  Beoiew, 
and  was  republished  in  a  pamphlet  form  under 
the  title  iif— 

"  LordShrtwabnrv'a  Uiracnloni  Tirsins,"  Sro.  Lon- 
don (W.  E.  Painter,  Sinnd),  1843,  pp.  IG. 

A  Inter  Tiut  to  the  convent  of  Caldaro,  to  see 
3Iaria  Mori — "  the  Ecstatic  Virgin  of  the  famed 
Tyrol " — was  made  by  George  Waterton,  the  cele- 
1>rated  saturalist,  who  has  recorded  his  impreS'- 
■ions  in  the  curious  autobiographical  preface  to 
the  third  series  of  his  Ettayt  on  Natural  Hiitory, 
12mo,  1858— a  review  of  which  will  be  found  m 
Fra»er's  Magaaine  for  December  in  the  asme  jear. 
AboDt  the  same  period  it  was  alleged  bj  the 
Very  Rev.  John  Foley,  president  of  St.  Mary's 
(Soman)  Catholic  college  at  You^hal,  county 
Cork,  Ireland,  that  similar  manifestatioin  of  mira- 
cnloDS  favours  had  been  vouchsafed  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  college.  This  was  attested  by  other 
priests,  and  an  appeal  made  about  the  same  time 
Tor  pecuniary  support  to  the  institution.  The 
aflair  made  some  noise,  and  the  Protestant  clergy 
and  others  demanded  a  thorough  investigation. 
The  opinions  of  The  Tablet,  which  I  will  not  tran- 
scribe from  fear  of  giving  offence,  will  be  found 
in  the  numbers  of  ^e  4th,  18tb,  and  24th  Feb., 
1843;  and  these  are  reprinted,  together  with  a 
minute  historical  summary  of  the  whole  a&it,  in 
a  pamphlet  entitled  — 

"  The  Eortatica  of  Tongbal,  compared  with  the  Won- 
den  of  lheT}-rol,  in  ■  Letter  to  the  Bight  Hon.  the  Earl 
of  ShrewsbniT.  By  the  Bev.  John  Aldworth,  Rector  of 
Tonghal,  Ireland.  8to.  London  (Dallon,  Cockspur 
SlRct),  1843,  pp.  71. 

Refnence  may  also  be  made  to  Dr.  Herbert 
Hayo'a  "  Letters  on  the  Truths  contained  in 
Popular-  Saperstitiona "  (Blacktaoodt  Magasine, 
Jane  1847,  p.  673),  in  which  allusion  to  the  Earl 
of  Shrewsboiy'e  book  ia  made. 

WiLUAK  Bates. 
KrmiDghani. 


The  inqmrer  U.  D.  will  find  full  information 
respecting  tlie  Ecstatica  and  the  Addolorata, 
usually  mentioned  together  as  the  Holy  Virgins 
of  the  Tyrol,  in  a  small  work  entitled  AutAaUic 
Aeemoitt  of  Dominica  Laaari,  Sfc.,  translated  from 
the  Qerman,  and  published  hy  Bacon  &■  Co.,  Nor- 
wich. 1841,  A  more  detailed  account  of  both 
will  be  seen  in  the  Letter  from  the  Earl  of  Shretct- 
bury  to  Ambroie  ImU  Paiitipp*,  Eiq.,  iJondoo,  G. 
Dolman,  61,  New  Bond  Street,  1841.  ThisZ«if«r 
extends  over  forty-four  octavo  pages,  and  was 
written  from  Munich.  It  has  also  strQcing  engrar- 
inga  of  both  tljese  Holy  Virfrins.  The  Addolorata 
died  April  4,  1846;  and  Ecstatica  January  11, 
1868.  F.  C.  H. 

"is"  AND  "EN." 
(4»S.  ^396,614;  vii.  69.) 
Mr.  J.  Patitx's  language  b  such  that  it  hardly 
merits  a  reply.  However,  as  he  has  thouglit 
proper  to  aocuse  me  of  "  invention  "  of  a  deriva- 
tion, and  of  "  laving  down  rules  "  to  support  such 
invention,  I  will  make  a  brief  answer,  But  Ma. 
FiTTB  may  rest  assured  that  if  in  any  other  re- 
marks on  my  notes  he  has  not  recourse  to  more 
courteous  language,  he  shall  (to  use  a  common 
expression)  "  have  it  'all  his  own  way."  The 
Oreek  derivation  that  he  is  at  war  with  waa  (be- 
fore I  consulted  Chastellain's  little  book)  the 
explanation  of  a  friend,  the  author  of  several 
learned  works  and  the  professor  at  a  foreign 
university.  It  whs  from  liim  also  that  the  in- 
formation marked  by  Mb.  Patkb  1,  S,  3,  4,  was 
received,  as  well  as  the  information  about  tha 
academic  diplomas.  I  do  not  mention  the  name, 
because  he  objects.  He  says  that^  after  reading 
Mb.  Piyde's  note  or  reply,  he  does  not  choose  to 
discuss  the  subject  witn  him.  He  has  been  a 
contributor  to  "  N.  &  Q.,"  and  is  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  scholars  and  philologists  of  the  age. 
I  have  no  means  of  consulting  the  "  mve  "  and 
"noble"  anthorities  named  by  Mb.  Paihx.  I 
am  a  traveller,  and  the  libraries  of  hotels  are  not 
very  eztonsive.  But  I  find  in  a  French  Universal 
Dictionary  (apparentiy  a  nnmbei-book)  belonging 
to  my  landlord  that  there  are  two  Es-ses.  One 
is  said  to  be  "  ttma  the  '  Latin '  e  or  ex,"  and  to 
I  "  tfe^of ";  the  other  is  "an  abbreviation  of 
».  "  Es  Droit,"  whatever  Me.  Paikb  may 
say  to  the  contrair,  is  very  common  in  French, 
Switisrland  and  elsewhere.  Turning  over  a  lot 
of  cards  that  from  time  to  time  have  been  left  by 
Continental  friends,  I  find  several  engraved  ex- 
mples.    One  of  the   first  I  stumbled  on  was 

M.  la  Chevalier  da  V >,  Docteui  i»  Droit" 

I  find  one  or  two  others  with  the  same  "if  Droit," 
but  those  with  m  are  certainly  more  numeroiu,    ■ 
"  Doeteur  ^i  Droit "  in  the  newspapers  is  at  fro-  )  | 
quent  as  "  en  droit"    Glancing  at  the  exhibttioB  ' 
boards  in  three  engnven'  windows^  I  find  aereral 


NOTES  AND  QCEEIES. 


If  te  b  a  mere  nbbreTiBtioi),  and  tm^  meftM  nt 
let,  it  needs  do  lu^c  to  prore  that  it  u  imfiTapw 
to  use  it  bribre  a  tmgular  noiu) ;  bnt  if  it  )>«  alio 
a  iDord,  and  as  snch  rignifiea  dt,  then  ia  no  im- 
pntprietj  wbatares  in  eo  neing  it,  and  thenfbn  I 
contend  (modntlj  and  not  ex  Mthedra),^taX  Fnncii 
or  Swiss  Bcholan  do  not  conunit  anj  blunder  when 
on  their  engraved  visiting  cards  the]'  chooM  to 
say  "  Docteur  68  Droit "  or  "  6s  PhilosopHie."  If 
Ub.  Pi.TBK  lives  in  a  neighboorhood  frequestsd  by 
fbreigners,  and  where  there  happens  to  be  a  card 
engraver,  I  would,  in  concluding  these  remarks, 
advise  him  to  inquire  whether  such  tradesman 
has  not  frequently  printed  "  i»  Droit "  and  "  ia 
Philosophie,''  and  if  it  Am  been  done,  to  ash 
whether  such  cards  were  not  engraved  conform- 
ably to  "copy."  Jaicbs  Henst  Dixok. 

I  find  the  following  passage  in  Ampere,  Sittmrt 
de  ia  formation  de  hi  Langue  francaue,  which, 
being  the  work  of  a  Member  of  the  Institute  and 
Professor  of  Literature  in  the  College  of  Franca 
(Paris,  1869),  I  presume  is  one  of  some  authorit; : 

"L'sndBDne  fonoe  jrancaiae  ds  I'aiticle  'li'setroavc 
en  Wallon, '  li  frere,'  'le  frfere.' 

f  '."On  troDTe  dans  on  autre  patois  [we  Idnnr  how 
dislectB  pmervt  words  sad  fomu  which  nav«  slipped  ont 
of  the  later  written  and  ■pokeo  languiEe}  la  linine  da 
datif,  •  ta  gagsa '  (bdz  gageaX  '  ^  P" '  (box  pisds)."  — 
Page  362. 

If  this  be  correct,  it  seems  to  support  what  Hr. 
Chaenock  informs  us  Cotgrave  says :  "  A  pre- 
poRtion  ever  ttt  be/ore  wonU  in  the  plural  mtmbar, 
aa  'en'  before  those  in  the  eingular";  and  what 
Hb.  Paine  affirms  against  Dr.  Dixok,  that  it  is 
never  found  before  a  tmgular." 

"  Baehelier  d«  Arts  "  is  simply 
Arts,"  or  rather  etu  arts. 

One  does  not  eee  how  the  OTeekprepoail 
should  find  ita  way  into  a  purely  French  phrase. 
The  word  h»,  in  t£e  phrase  ii  Jsit,  is  probably 
&om  the  old  French  preposition  sni,  from  iWtM, 
the  fi  hsTing  dropped  out  in  pronunciation  from 
rapidity  or  caretessnees.*  S.  R. 


FISDEESE  FLOWEBS. 
(4-^  S.  vi.  644.) 
Tn  the  Joitmal  of  SorticuUurt  for  July  29, 1869, 
there  appeared  an  interesting  paper  bearing  this 
tide,  "Fmdeme Flowers."  The  anonymons  writer 
quotas  at  greater  length  from  Burke's  ricis»i(i«fci 
of  Families  than  Mb.  Peabsos  ;  and  aa  it  may  be 
new  to  many  of  your  readers,  I  venture  to  com  it 
ont — first  stating  that  through  the  pages  of  tiie 
abeve-DMaed  journal   I  made    Mb.  PxAsaon'e 


*  8aaAaiptB,p.3M,iH 


inquiry,  "  "What  are  the  ni 


s  of  these  flowers, 


and  which  hold  ao  ust  to  bis  ancient  garden,  tunr 
only  a  field  ?  "     To  this  question  I  received  aa 

The  hatntst  oTFlBdente,  fn  the  parish  of  Midcleorer, 
aboat  fonr  miles  Trom  Derb}',  was  tot  nine  geoentkHU 
Iha  chiaf  leaidence  oT  a  family  who  dtrired  their  nanw 
^m  the  place  af  their  pairimony.  From  the  tim«  of 
Edward  I.  to  those  of  Seary  VIIL,  when  the  male  line 
became  extinct,  and  the  estate  passed  by  the  marriage  of 
the  heiress  to  the  Harpurs,  the  hooM  of  Finderne  wu 
one  of  the  most  distiagai^ed  in  Derbyshire.  Msraben 
of  it  had  won  their  spurs  in  the  Crusades,  and  at  Ciesay 
and  at  Agincoort.  The  ions  were  brave,  and  the  daugbr' 
t«a  fair:  one,  alas  I  was  frail  as  well  as  fair,  and  the 
heaviest  blow  that  ever  fell  on  the  time-honoured  race 
was  when  Catherine  Findeme,  about  the  middle  of  the 
fifteenth  centurr,  consented  to  be  the  mistress  of  Henry 
Lord  tirey  of  Codnor.  In  the  remarkable  will  of  that 
remarkable  nobleman,  who  in  1468  obtiiined  a  licence 
from  the  king  for  the  tranamntalJon  of  metals,  ptovbioa 
is  made  for  djb  ill^timate  issue  by  Catherine,  in  terms 
which  were,  no  donbt,  deemed  unexceptionable  in  thoae 
days,  but  which  would  be  deemed  highly  offensive  in 
our  own.  The  territorial  posaeseioos  of  the  Flndemea 
were  large ;  the  Findemes  were  high  sheriffs,  occaaionallr 
rangers  of  Neodwood  Forest,  and  custcdians  of  Talba^ 
Caatle.  and  they  matched  with  many  of  the  best  familias. 
Findems,  oriEinally  erected  tempore  Edward  1.,  and 
realored  and  enlarged  at  different  periods,  was  in  IMS 
one  of  the  qnahitest  and  largest  maasians  in  the  midlands. 
The  pieafQt  church,  then  th«  family  chapel,  had  mws  at 
monumental  braises  and  altac  tombs— all  memorials  of  the 
Findemes.  In  1850  a  pedigree  research  caused  me  to 
pay  a  visit  to  the  village.  1  sought  for  this  ancient 
hall— not  a  stone  remained  to  tell  where  It  had  stood ! 
I  entered  the  church — not  a  ain^  record  of  a  Finderne 
was  there '.  I  accosted  a  villager,  hoping  to  glean  some 
stray  traditions  of  the  Findernee.  '  Findemis ! '  said  be, 
'  we  have  no  Findemes  here,  but  we  have  something  that 
once  belonged  to  them ;  we  have  Findeme's  flowers.' 
'  Show  me  [hem,>  I  replied ;  and  the  old  man  led  me  into 
a  fteM,  which  still  retained  faint  traces  of  terraces  aod 
fonndalioni.  '  There,'  said  he,  pointing  to  a  bant  id 
gaiden- flowers  grown  wild,  'there  are  the  Findeme's 
Sowera,  brought  by  Sic  Geofftev  from  the  Holy  Land; 
and  do  what  we  wUI,  they  will  never  die  1 ' 

"Poetiy  mingles  more  with  our  daily  life  than  we  are 
apt  to  acknowledge;  and  even  to  an  antiquary,  like 
myself,  the  old  man's  proae,  and  the  subject  of  it,  wcae 
the  very  essence  of  poetry. 

"  For  more  than  three  hundred  years  the  Findemea 
bare  been  extinct;  the  mansion  they  dwdt  in  had 
crambled  into  dnst;  the  brass  and  marble  intended  to 
perpetuate  the  race  had  passed  away ;  and  ■  little  day 
flower  had  for  ages  preserved  a  name  and  a  memory 
which  the  elaborate  works  of  man's  hand  had  failed  to 
rescne  from  oblivioa.  The  moral  of  the  incident  ia  as 
beautiful  aa  the  poetiy.  Wu  talk  of  the  '  langoage  of 
flowers,'  but  of  the  eloqueuca  of  flowers  we  never  had 
such  a  striking  example  as  that  presented  in  these  floweia 
of  Findeme ;  — 

'  Time,  Tine  Us  withering  hand  bath  laid 
On  battlament  and  tower ; 
And  wbaie  rich  banners  wore  displayed, 
Jiow  only  w " ' 


flowers." 


Anna  HABBisoir. 


«*B.nLi 


Ki,ii.z 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIE& 


htvT  Aim  Obdcstok's  Gbatk  nr  Tnnx 
CaracHTABii  (4"  B.  vii.  76,  128,  172.)— I  am 
nnwh  obliged  ti>  Losa  Vebdlax  for  hia  IdiidneH 
in  •etting  at  leat  the  Btoiy  of  Lady  Anne  Grim- 
•ton'a  incredulity.  It  lemuiu  «.  eurions  example 
of  the  growth  of  k  legend  out  of  a  nattinJ  phe 
iKHneiion ;  to  be  clBEaed  with  tfae  story  of  Niobe'i 
tears,  whicb,  already  before  Homer's  tdme,  had 
giown  oat  of  the  dripping  rtatne  in  Mount  Sipy- 
laa;  the  etoiy  of  the  trannioTtation  of  St  Catha- 
rine's body  to  Mount  Sinai,  which  bad  grown  out 
of  the  mummj'iike  protuberaoce  of  rock  on  the 
Bummit  of  Mount  St.  Catharine  in  the  Arabian 
Ptminaiila ;  the  atory  of  the  Nyinjphs  and  Fans  in 
tbe  Coiydsn  cave,  which  grew  out  of  the  stelac- 
^te  figiuva  in  the  limestone  rock ;  the  story  of  the 
impriaoned  giante  under  Mount  Etna,  or  of  the 
orertluow  of  Ada  by  Polyphemus,  which  grew 
oat  of  the  eruptiona  o£  that  volcano.       A.  P.  S. 


ooaaidetedte 
liable  to  duty. 


3    MUBDBBERS  :    SoMEBSETSHmB   Tra- 

smoKB  (4""  S.  vii.  33,  171.) — My  account  in 
the  Quorter^  Eeiiicto  has  wnce  been  corrected  aad 
enlaTj^  in  ue  eauiy  on  "  The  Murder  of  Bechet " 
in  MuCmToai  Memoriali  of  Ctmlerbuty  Cathedral. 
A.P.  S. 

SiAJCP  OH  PioTUKE  CiJJVis  (4"'  S.  vii,  97.)— 
From  ioqairieal  have  made  I  doubt  if  any  govern- 
ment Bt&mp  vaa  ever  imposed  upon  the  canvas 
used  for  picturea,  as  picture  canvaa,  and  auspect 
■oeh  stanrp  waa  efiixed  only  under  the  Actawhich 
imposed  duties  on  linens  generally.  All  linens  on 
wln^  excise  duty  was  paid  were  stamped.  The 
followiug  memoranda  may  be  useful  to  those  who 
■re  able  to  prosecute  this  inqniiy  more  fully  than 
I  have  done. 

The  duty  on  linens  seems  to  have  been  first 
impoaed  by  10  Anne,  cap.  10,  the  uzty-ninth 
danee  of  which  imposes  upon  all  linens  ana  stuK 
{with  certain  exceptions)  to  be  printed,  stained, 
pmtnted,  or  dyed,  a  duty  of  three- halfpence  for 
every  yard  in  length,  reckoning  yard  wide ;  while 
tin  Dine^-seventb  clause  directs  tbe  conuniuioner, 
<n  or  before  July  20, 1712,  to  provide  proper  seals 
or  etamps  for  marking  silks,  calicoes,  linens,  and 

By  the  Act  of  24  Geo.  IIL  sess.  2.  cap.  40,  for 
gnntiog  tobis  Majesty  additional  duties  on  linens, 
printed,  painUd,  staiaed,  or  dyed,  the  commis- 
■ieaAra  of  excise  are  in  like  manner  directed  by 
•ectkm  26,  on  or  before  Oct.  21, 1764,  to  provide 
fnnff  setja  and  sbuaps  to  dentde  the  charging  of 
men  duties. 

If  thme  Bt&mps  are  enlv  found  on  jucturea 
panted  after  1784,  I  should  aiupect  that  at  that 
tJBe  a  new  and  atriotAr  interpretation  may  have 
%tm  put  upon  the  word  "  painted,"  which  in  tbe 
Aet  of  Amu  waa  umply  another  £arm  at "  dyed," 
sad  tlw  canvas  which  was  to  be  "  punted    wm 


s  under  the  Ac^  wd  as  «ach  be 

It  would  l>e  well  if  possessors  of  pictures  bearing 
tbe  government  stamp  would  recMd  in  "  N.  ft  Q?* 
the  datea  of  such  stamps.  W.  J.  T. 

T^  infomation  waa  supplied  to  "N.  ft  Q.' 
within  the  last  six  years.  I  cannot  give  the  refer- 
ence. An  engraving  of  'die  Exdse  Office  stamp 
was  inserted  bj  way  of  illustrstion. 

Albbst  Bitttxbt. 

[Tilers  must  be  some  mistake  u  to  this  reply  having 
■ppeired  in  "  N.  £  Q.";  no  sash  noodcnt  oeitainly  wsa 
ever  ioaeitsd.] 

Masokkeiiasibic  (4*^  S.  vi.  323,  448.) — This 
baa  always  been  considered  a  perveraion  of  Chri»- 
tdanity,  one  of  the  numeroua  heresies  wMch 
abounded  in  the  sixth  and  seventh  centuries.  As 
repraaent«d  by  Gibbon,  Mahomet  regarded  his 
reli^n  sa  a  Airther  and  perfect  devuopmeBt  of 
ClinstiBnity.    Thus  with  him — 

ian  of  Adam,  Hoah,  Abnibsm, 
triee  in  just  gradation  above 


the  p 


^beia  ia  nombeied  with  the  infidels."    (i^iduw 


FaO,  cap.  GO.) 

And  again  (cap.  51) — 

"  Tbe  ditciples  of  Abraham,  of  HOWB,  and  of  J«sas 
■were  solemnly  invited  to  accept  tbe  more  perfeot  revela- 
tion or  Mahomet ;  but  it  thej  prefem d  the  payment  of 
a  modsmte  tribute,  they  were  entitled  to  tba  AMdam  Dt 
«oiiacieiica  and  i^gioue  woraliip." 

In  coutradifitinctjon  to  Maoians,  Jewa,  and 
CbrietianB,  whom  the  followera  of  Mahomet  termed 
the  People  of  the  Book,  were  tbe  Harfaii,  qui 
tolerari  nequeunt  These  (Gibbon  quotes  &om 
Eeland)  are— 

"  i.  Those  wbo,  herider  God,  worabip  the  son,  mojm, 
orldolai  S.  Atheists.  Utrique,  quamdia  priDceps  iliqnis 
inter  MohammedaQog  snperesl,  oppugntri  dobent  donee 
religloDem  unplectanlDT. 

Tbe  Mahommedana  regard  themselves  uiiiver< 
sally  as  Unitarians  ("  the  proselytes  of  Mahomet 
from  India  to  Morocco  are  distinguished  by  the 
name  of  Unitariana,"  Gibbon,  cap.  50),  and  there- 
fore the  statement  that  "  no  Mahommedana  have 
become  Socinian  Chriatians"  is  evidently  true. 
The  most  philosophic  view  to  take  of  Mahomme- 
danism  is  to  deem  it  a  heretical  Ibrm  of  Christi- 
anity. Pklasittb. 

Bastoloiuo  Dixz,  tee  Discotebsb  of  ihb 
Cats  Bodtb  (4""  8.  vii.  102.) — Mk.  Chaslbs 
Natlob  is  undoubtedly  quite  correct  in  saying 
that  the  honour  of  thia  discovery  belongs  to  Bei- 
tolomao  Diaz,  aad  not^  as  I  aaid,  Vaaco  da  Gama; 
and  I  feel  mudi  obliged  for  hia  kindnese  in  put- 
ting me  right ;  but  there  is,  I  find,  a  eonaiderabla 
diflerenee  of  statement  as  to  the  vear  in  which  . 
tbia  very  iisportant  diacoveiy  ia  sua  to  have  been  . 
efiected. 


196 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4-kS.VlI.  Habcb4,T1. 


Antonio  Galrano,  wlio  died  in  1667,  in  hit 
J}ueoi>eri«t  o/tht  Worid,  eaje:  — 

•■  In  the  jBU  1486  the  kiog  Don  John  Mat  on  this 
diKOTejy  Butholomew  Dliz,  a  genClemui  of  tbe  contl, 
wltb  three  uiL  CoastiDg  ilonit,  he  placed  pillira  of 
■tone,  «nd  ducoTsred  the  Cape  or  Good  Hope,  and  beyond 
u  Car  u  the  river  Infante  ;  ind  it  may  be  laid  that  he 
uw  tbe  laDd  of  India,  but,  like  Uoaea  and  the  promlafid 
land,  did  not  enter  ia. -—DUcmtria  of  At  World  (p.  TT). 
Londlni,  impeniia  G.  Bishop,  1601 ;  repnblitbed  by  the 
Uaklnyt  Society  by  Tic^-Admiral  Bethaoe,  C.B.  186S. 

The  Account  given  in  tlie  Dietiormaire  Mttoriyue 
(Paris,  1810)  says:  — 

"  Diaz  (BartbSemi),  niTlgataar  portoeats,  qal  d^ 
couTrit  en  146G  un  cap  k  I'extr^mittf  niSridioDale  de 
I'Alrique,  anqnel  il  donna  1e  Dom  de  Cap  dca  Tounnsntca  ; 
miia  quand  11  rendit  comple  de  la  d^Dvert*  au  roi  dn 
Portugal.  Jean  II,  oe  prince  changea  c«  noio  en  celoi  de 
Cap  de  Banna  Eap^acce," — 

irhich  would  make  the  diecovery  to  have  occurred 
twenty  ypars  berore  1486,  the  yenr  to  which  it  ie 
assigned  by  Oalvano.  During  thia  intermediate 
period,  it  u  to  be  supposed  that  he  must  have 
made  other  Toyages,  an  account  of  which  may 
peTbaps  be  found;  if  1466,  the  earlier  date  given 
Ibr  the  discovery  of  the  Cape  route  can  bavenlied. 
It.  It.  W.  Ellis. 

Starccoea,  near  Exeter. 

The  Deap  Old  Womait  (4*^  8.  rii.  76.)— I 
suspect  it  is  with  the  lines  c[uoted  by  O.  as  with 
innumerable  other  old  ditties  and  sayings,  that 
all  attempts  to  discover  the  authors  of  them  would 
be  fruitless.  Uorsover,  there  are  usually  several 
different  forma  of  them,  as  is  tbe  case  with  the 
lines  onder  inquiiy.  I  used  to  hear  them  half  a 
centunr  and  more  ago,  from  an  old  Cheshire  man, 
redted  thus :  — 

(Aolourf 


•Oldw 


D^  bsaring.' 


'Othat'aa  bonny  lad,  now  I  baaryoo  daarly.'" 
Then  I  remember  hearing,  in  Stafibrdsfaire,  the 
same  humorous  idea  expressed  in  another  fbim — ■ 
(Loud.) 

"  '  Z«krl,  Zekel,  will  ym  treat  ■<<  to  a  jdnt  o'  drink  ? ' 

■  What  did  yon  aay,  Miater  f ' 

'  Zekel,  Zekel,  ehall  /  treat  yDB  to  a  pint  o'  dtiok  ? ' 

'  0  yea,  if  yon  please.  Mister ! '  " 

F.  C.  H. 

This  was  sung  by  my  grandmother  in  1626 
thus:  — 
"  '  Old  woman,  old  woman,  will  yon  go  a-Bhaariog  ? ' 

■  Sneak  a  little  louder,  sir,  I'm  very  hard  o'  bearing.* 
'  Old  woman,  old  vromaD,  may  I  came  and  kiai  yoa  t ' 

<  Yea,  aoi  thank  yon  kindly,  air,  and  Ood  Almighty 

R  A.D. 
Stokt  aboribxd  to  Tsxodobs  Hook  (i*  8. 


■  73,)— Thia  story  may  have  been 


(4*8. 
told  by 


Theodore  Hook,  and  perhaps  be  put  it  into  tha 
form  quoted ;  but  the  joke  itself  ia  far  older  than 
his  time,  and  is,  I  fear,  after  ail,  but  an  old  Joe. 
For  I  have  long  known  it  in  what,  I  suspect,  was 
its  first  umple  shape,  thus :  — 

A  Yankee  was  walking  with  an  Irishman  oa 
the  road  to  New  York ;  and  thinking  to  roast  his 
companion,  said  to  him:  "  Where  would  you  ba 
now,  Paddy,  if  the  devil  bad  his  due  P  "  '■  Futb," 
replied  Paddy,  "I'd  be  walking  by  myself  to 
New  York," 

This  reminds  me  of  another  witty  answer  of  an 
Irishman  worth  recording.  The  late  Marquis  of 
Anglesey  coming  up  to  some  men  at  work  in  his 
grounds,  thus  addressed  one  of  them,  who  was  an 
Irishman:  "Now,  Paddv,  here's  half-a-crown  for 
you,  if  you'll  tell  me  the  truth  in  answer  to  a 
question  I  shall  ask  you."  The  Irishman  pro- 
tested that  he  would.  "  Well,  then,"  said  the 
marquis,  "if  the  devil  were  to  come  now  for  one 
of  us  two,  which  would  he  take?"  "Indeed 
then,  my  lord,  he'd  take  me."  "You  sha'n't  bava 
the  half-crown;  I  know  you  don't  think  that." 
"0  yes,  I  do,  mj  lord:  he'd  take  me  when  hs 
could  get  me ;  isn't  he  sure  of  your  lordship  at 
any  timeP"  Tbe  marquis  gave  him  the  half- 
crown,  and  rode  off  laughing  heartily. 

This  may  seem  too  good  to  be  true ;  but  the 

EiTson  who  related  it  to  me  had  it  as  a  fact  from 
ady  Anglesey.  F.  C.  H. 

Loan  Plttbkbt  (4**  S.  vii.  93.)— Sorely  Lord 
Plunket  (so  his  name  should  be  spelt)  cannot  be 
impeached  as  uttering  "nonsense"  in  the  image 
of  Time  with  the  hour-glass  and  the  scythe.  No 
metaphor  could  be  more  "germane  to  the  matter." 
The  Statutes  of  Limitation  in  respect  of  title 
were  obviously  founded  on  the  supposition  that  a 
man  might  have  lost  his  original  grant  through 
the  "scythe"  of  Time,  and  proposed  to  makeup 
for  the  loss  by  a  title  derived  from,  length  of 
possesMOD.  The  "muniments"  of  which  Lord 
Plunket  apoke  were  those  which  evidence  tbe 
title  in  question.  As  for  muniments  which  eet 
up  any  other  title,  neither  the  metaphor  nor  tho 
statute  interferes  with  tbem,  except  »  far  as  the 
latter  meets  them  with  a  preferable  title. 

C.  G.  PaowKi. 

Gairiek  Clab. 

ClRVEKELLA  iKB  THS  GtiBS  SliPPBB  (4**  S. 
vi.  382.)  —  The  lUlians  have  a  rimilar  story, 
which  has  been  turned  into  a  musical  StentsreUo 
djay.  The  lord  of  the  village  gives  a  grand  fSte, 
Ilie  snow  is  on  the  ground ;  and  a  slipper  is  dis- 
covered on  the  following  day.  The  lord  saya 
tliat  he  will  marry  the  owner.  All  the  fem^e 
guests  (including  several  old  women)  make  tha 
JUtmg  attempt;  but  tbe  shoe  only  fits  the  foot  <X 
one,  a  poor  village  girl.  StentereUo  (for  he  ia  tbe 
lord)  Eoakea  good  his  promise,  and  the  wadding 


A'^s.Tii.  mabch*,?!.]       notes  and  queries. 


in  Floience.  The  name  of  the  heToine  I  forget, 
but  it  is  not  Cinderellii.  I  do  Dot  suppose  tbnt 
the  ItaliaDS  can  do  back  to  either  ^lian  or  Strabo 
for  the  otigin  of  their  plaj.  I  meTely  mention 
the  above  Terdon  to  snow  that  the  legend  is 
widely  diffused,  and  is  found  in  different  coun- 
tries^ with  Tiriatioiis  to  Buit  localities  and  cus- 
toms. Mb.  Mac  C&be'b  version  baa  a  Tei;  con- 
Tinwng  air  about  it.*  James  Hbubt  Dixoh. 
Old  PsENn  op  SroiraHENeE  (4*  S.  TJi.  36, 
179.) — David  Loggan  practised  hia  profearion  in 
London ;  where,  as  late  as  1688,  ha  produced  a 
work  illustrating  the  UDiveiBity  of  Cambridge. 
The  date  of  his  death  does  not  appenr.t  In  the 
Beautitn  of  England  and  Wale»,  the  list  of  pub- 
lished views,  &c.,  at  the  end  of  the  Wiltuiire 
volume,  contains  a  notice  of  two  views  of  Stone- 
henge  by  David  Lo^wij  from  the  west  and  aonth, 
but  no  date  is  given.  Considering  the  dat«  of 
Iioggan's  Inrth,  and  the  period  of  his  residence  in 
London,  it  is,  however,  probable  that  the  views 
were  published  towards  the  latter  end  of  the 
seventeenth  century.  A.  B.  UlSDLBTon, 

The  OoM,  SBllsburf. 

Nxw  Zkalafd  Mebal  (i<^  S.  vi.  27a)— The 
dates  were  omitted  ^m  one  batch  of  medals 
becanse  when  the  names  of  the  claimants  wert 
sent  in  to  the  aotborities  no  dates  of  the  respec- 
tive services  were  attached ;  and  as  the  coliectioo 
of  amended  nominal  lists  would  have  caused  c 
siderable  delay  land  consequent  disappointment^ 
it  was  thooght  advisable  to  issue  the  medals  as 
described.  J.  W.  F. 

Brighton. 

A  Black- CO  FXTBT  LESEin>:  "Thb  Pkect 
Akecdoies  "  (4'"  8.  vii.  71.)— In  The  Pera/  Aneo- 
dotes,  ii.  448,  edit  -1868,  the  story  is  told  of 
General  Bligh.  Dates  are  not  given,  but  it  is 
«aid  that  he  was  then  a  captain  in  a  marching 
regiment,  that  he  kept  the  watch  to  bis  death, 
and  left  it  by  will  with  a  large  fortune  to  bis 
brother  the  Dean  of  Elphin.  Th«  Peny  Anecdote* 
were  begun  in  1820,  and  finished  in  1823;  so, 
allowing  time  for  promotion  from  captain  to 
general,  and  the  accumulation  of  a  large  fortune, 
I  think  the  event  belongs  to  the  last  century,     • 

Is  the  anecdote  of  Qeorge  III.'s  desiring  that  no 
notice  should  be  taken  of  a  robbery  if  committed 
1^  a  Stafrordshire  man  traditional  or  from  a  book  P 
If  the  latter,  I  sbaU  be  obliged  by  a  reference. 

As  Th*  Percjf  Anecdotti  are  now  before  me  I 
take  the  opportunity  of  asking  for  two  more  re- 


"Walpole  dtaractariied  ti 


a  niemoiis  pablishcd  in 


precede  conHDon  hiBtories,  Khich  are  but  repelJlJoDS  of 
no  Dacommon  events.' " — Pnfact,  p.  iv. 

"  A  populer  writer  has  well  ctuincterlsed  tbia  enjoy- 
mmt :  '  we  who  do  not  know  our  next-door  neighboiuB' 

■Dwmn;"ka.—ld. 

What  are  the  "certiun  memoirs"  so  highly 
prmsed  by  WalpoleP  Who  is  the  "popular 
writer  "  P  It  would  have  been  quite  as  easy  to 
give  the  title  of  the  book  and  the  name  of  the 
popular  vniter.  Ftizeofkdis. 

Gamck  CInbL 

Thomas  Hooi>(4'»a  vii.  32.")— Tfte  *tfwrfny 
Jtmetc't  citation  from  Hood's  "  Lee  Shore "  is 
correct  Sf.'b  manifestly  the  contrary.  In  my 
copy  of  Hood  (Moson,  1848,  u.  3)  the  entire  verse 
stands  thus : — 

"  Let  broad  leagues  dinertr 
Ulm  fVom  fonder  foam  ; 
Ob,  God  1  to  iblnk  mao  ever 
Coma  loo  near  bis  home  I  " 

T.  Wmtwood. 
Dbti>bn*8  Agbbsusnt  fob  sis  VntaiL  (i^"  S. 
vi.  S76.) — I  remember  seeing  this  agreement  in 
the  house  of  Sir  Thomas  Lawrence  in  Kussell 
Sauare  in  a  frame  and  glass.  It  was  sold  at  the 
sale  of  his  effects,  June  19, 1330.  for  eight  pounds 
eight  shillings  to  Bcgers  (probably  the  poet). 
What  became  of  it  afterwards  I  know  not 

J.R.B. 

Lobd  BiBon's  "  EsoLisH  Baeds,"  Era  (4""  3, 

vi.  pamm:    vii.  23,  106.)— WoiUd  Mb.  J.  H. 

Dixon  kindly  refer  to  the  aothority  that  attributes 

t«  Lord  Byron  the  lines— 

"O  Gemini  I  "Ac? 
The  writer  of  this  note  has  always  understood 
they  were  Theodore  Hock's,  with  a  slight  varia- 

0  Gemiol,  Crimini ! 
What  a  nimlni-pimint 
Bime  abont  Rimini  1 " 


m  died  ia  1693.— Eo.] 


sn. 

OF  Knioeihood  (4*  S.  v,  vi,  pattim  ,- 
CwYBX  overlooks  the  fact,  that  even 
the  qualifications,  heraldic  and  genealogical,  of 
the  toiights  in  .question  are  only  ex-parU  state- 
ments, and  the  ttatm  which  he  auga^ts  would 
have  to  be  allowed  by  the  sovereign  doing  one  of 
two  things — either  condoning  and  confirming  a 
breach  { of  ,ber  own  prerogative,  or  inventing  a 
"  modern-antique  "  to  suit  the  convenience  of  a 
few  uncritical  subjects.  Moreover,  before  briog- 
ing  forward  such  pretenaons,  each  knight  would 
have  to  pass  through  the  preliminaiy  ordeal  on 
Beunett'a  HUL  How  many  could  face  their  own 
standard  of  lineage  F  S. 

A  fiacTOBSHiP  OP  EiaHTY-On  Tkabb,  Ajm )  |  (^ 
Pakmh  Rmistxbb  (4*  S.  vii  66,  &7.>— Your  i 


N^OTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*a.VII.MABCHl,11. 


correapondent  H.  F.  T.  Hns  givm  Ae  true  var  of 
showing  the  mistake  of  attributdu^  exceanve  Imi- 

fivity  to  Elizabethan  and  Jameame  inciimbeats. 
here  is  a  veiy  good  example  in  thia  neighbour- 
hood. The  registers  of  Birtsmorton  bapn  in  1539. 
TothBtveariaaffixedtheaignature"  WdlmCIariie, 
cler."  He  goea  on  aigning  till  September  7, 1624, 
when  ha  enters  a  baptism  with  bis  aignatiire  "  p. 
me  Willmm  CUrke  Rect  iUd."  Thus  his  signa- 
tures extend  ovet  eighW-five  years.  This  fact 
alone  ■would  be  tolerably  oonyinoing;  but  in 
Nash's  Woreesterthire  are  to  be  seen  the  namee  of 
the  rectors  who  preceded  Clarke,  whose  registra- 
tions he  most  have  transcribed.  I).  P. 

SLnarCa  Lodgt,  HalTern  Welb. 

Leioh  Hnrt'a  "  Lbisvbb  Houks  nr  Town " 
(i^  S.  yii.  26,  132.)— No  work  with  this  title  was 
ever  published  by  Leigh  Hunt.  I  have  all  the 
writings  of  this  author,  amounting  to  some  forty- 
seven  separate  works,  baaides  many  papera  in  maga- 
unea,  &c.,  which  have  never  been  reprinted  or  m- 
cludod  in  any  of  his  miacellaneous  collections,  and 
there  is  not  onlyao  Tolume,  but  no  detached  essay 
of  his  with  the  above  title."        Aiis.  laxLAin). 

Inglowtwd,  Bowdon,  Chealiire. 

CocfoiDBTOB  0¥  Thouoht  [V^  3.  vii.  93^ — 
The  thought  of  Dr.  Johnson,  that  "  no  one  does 
<at,ything  for  the  Iiuf  time  (Imowinglj)  bot  with 
Tegret,''  has  receiTed  a  furtlier  homely  illuatration 
in  Sen  Juan,  canto  11. 14 : — 

"At  leaving  eren  the  moat  naplaasant  people 
And  pUc^  one  keeps  lookiag  at  the  ataeple." 

Editabd  Nobmak. 
45,  Besaborangb  Gardens,  S.W. 

Tbbbch's  Hulsban  Lzoiiibeb,*1846  (4'"  S.  vii. 
78.)— The  reference  must  be  to  Goethe's  i^ouat, 
part  1,  BC.  i.  It  is  well  known  that  the  Arch- 
biahop  is  a  student  and  admirer  of  German  liteTB' 
ture.  Surely  Eastern  is  a  miapriut  for  Eaater. 
£.  £.  U. 

"Veritas  is  Putbo  "  (4""  S,  yiA7i;  tU.  108.) 
There  is,  I  think,  clearly  an  alluMon  to  this  pro- 
verb in  the  Irriiio  GtntUiam  FhSoiophoram  of 
Hermias,    S.  vii.     In   canvassing    the    various 


arepiiblisliiiw  cboap  veteli 
le  of  Uw  wrlctnaa  of  this  cl 
u  Tolnmes  might  be  devoto 


a  delicbtad  to  see  that  Utmn.  Smith,  Elder.  & 

^Li,_i.v 1 1  elegmntly  printed  aJitlonB  of 

I  chsnning  mnthor.  Two  or 
•ted  to  nprinta  ottntft  and 
aketchw  hy  Leigh  Hunt,  which  at  pfeaent  lia  eDtoinbed 
In  Slea  of  old  newspap«is  and  magazinaa  rarely  looked 
into  by  tbe  most  adventurous  and  peralaetnt  rewiar.  It 
would  be  doing  s  nrviee  to  the  "  gentler  Iltaratar*  "  of 
oar  csntnry  to  exhama  tfaeae  mlaodlMilaa.  Mr.  Batem 
publiabed  at  a  cheap  priae  a  little  Totmna  of  Salectioni 
nom  Qant's  Indioaior,  with  on  txcellent  lotiodactlon 
by  Mr.  Edmund  Oilier,  than  whom  there  could  not  be  ■ 
better  editor  ;  hot  Hunt's  admiraia  will  not  feet  that  Jus- 
tka  baa  been  dog*  to  him  nntil  at  laiot  hJilf-SHlaien 
volnmes  of  bia  jtfuu/'atuinu  JEnayi  alone  hava  beea 
given  to  tbe  public 


opiniinia  of  the  heathen  philoaophera,  and  among 
thoM  of  Damocritua  ana  Epicurus,  in  the  section 
immediatdy  preceding,  he  conies  at  length  to 
those  of  Kleanthea,  and  aays, — 

'A\A' A  KA<^4i|tiiriTii^p^«t  J«ipBid|rira^a\V, 
■aroArji?  ow  toS  iiyumToi,  hI  mfrrfci  iMti/im  tit  itcf- 
liit  ipxi'i  ^*^  *<il  t^V- 

But  Kleanthia  lalaea  bii  head  from  the  welt  and  de- 
rides your  doctriiiB  (Bpicorua'a),  and  I,  too,  derive  tma 
principles  fmm  the  Buna  sonrces  as  be  doea— God  and 
matter. 

Kleanthea  was  a  stoic  _[philosopIieb  a  native  of 
the  town  of  Aason  in  Epirus,  and  bom  about  340 
B.C.  It  is  said  of  him  that  he  was  ao  poor  as 
"  to  be  forced  to  draw  water  in  the  night'tiate  for 
hia  maintenance,  that  be  might  stick  close  to  his 
study  all  the  day."     It  ia  not  imposaible  that  thia 


quoted,  very  little  ia  known  of  him.  By  some  ha 
is  suppoaed  to  have  lived  in  the  tecond,  by  others 
in  the  ftmrtk,  century.  He  was  a  close  follower 
in  hia  views  and  Bentunents  of  Justin  Msr^  and 
T^BD  the  Assyrian.  EnKinin  Tew,  3£A. 

Patching  Bectory,  AmndeL 

The  ori^al  Greek,  h  Mr  yif  A  ^i|4<lii,  will 
be  found  in  Diogesea'a  Laartiu*,  ix.  72. 

WiLLiAU  Auus  Wkiset. 

Ajckrican  "  Natiohal  Somb  "  (4"^  8.  viL  U,. 
7&) — In  tile  fifth  vane  ia  a  miapriut— tlie  fifthi 
line  ahoold  be 

"  Columbia  can  array  a  band." 
The  song  is  said  to  be  by  the  late  Rev.  Mr,  Pea- 
body,  Unitariao  clergyman,  but  this  ia  not  certain. 

"  PooB  Mas.  Habi  " :  Krm  Clivk's  Lbttbb 
(4"-  S.  vii.  8.)— "Mrs.  Hart,"  mentioned  in  Kitty 
Olive's  lett«r,  wea  perhaps  die  actress  alluded  to 
by  Churchill  in  hia  Boictad — 

"  With  tnuuientglesmB  of  grace  Hart  aweeps  along." 

aw.  L. 
GxoBQE  Nbvul,  Lobs  Lativer  (4*  S.  vii, 
96.)— He  was  fourth  son  of  Ralph  Nevill,  Earl  of 
Weatmoreland,  by  his  second  wi&,  Joan  Beaafbrff 
daughter  of  John  of  Gaunt,  and  married  Eliiahath 
youngest  daughter  of  Richard  Beauchamp,  Esrl 
of  Warwick,  and  coheir  to  her  mother,  Elinkbeth, 
daughter  and  heir  of  Thomas,  fifth  Lom  Berkeley, 
by  Mai^rat,  daughter  and  hair  of  Gerard  Warren^ 
Lord  Lisle.  (See  Collins's  Pterage,  edited  b7 
Brydges,  v.  166;  iii.  6Wi  and  Buiie's  Eximcl 
Pttragei,  third  edition,  p.  60.)  G.  If.  T. 


Smtzerland,  baa  iu  its  Grand  Conseil  and  Gmi 

d'Etat  recently  discussed  the  propriety  of  taxing 


*»9.Tn.  Mabcii*,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


199 


smoken.  It  ia  propoaed  that  ereiy  smoker  aball 
htm  impoaed  on  Dim  a  buc  of  two  francs  per 
■nnnm,  and  that  all  under  fourbeen  yean  of  age 
shall  be  proliibited  from  smoldtig'.  The  practi(» 
is  becmtuiie  a  most  intolenible  nuiBuice ;  and  at 
Latuamie  boja  of  mx  yean  old  are  met  every  day 
Bmokiii^  pipes  or  c^are.  A  amokiug  tax  ia  quit* 
as  proper  as  a  gun  or  anuorial  tax.  N. 

EowERfi  Hall  Estates,  Essex  (4""  S.  y.  369; 
438.)— In  reply  to  Mk.  RusaELL'a  inquiry  es  to 
■s  of  Bower  HalL     In  1832  the  owner 


dona  in  liocolnsbire.    F 
daughter,  the  wife  of  Major  Walton.     Her 
the   present  proprietor,    is   not  now  residing  at 
Sower  Hall.    Ha  is  married,  and  has  two  sona 

In  the  same  year  (IS33)  there  waa  amongst  the 
relics  a  letter  dated  16G5,  from  Oliver  Cromwell 


It  was  intended  to  bsTe  been  sent  by  Sir 
Tliomaa  Bendisb,  formeriy  ambassador  at  the 
Forte>  but  his  inness  and  death  prevented  ite  de- 

Tne  letter  was  shown  to  my  friend  by  Hhe 
Snriei^,  Esq.,  of  Haverhill,  and  a  copy  was  at 
once  tuen,  and  ia  now  in  my  possesuon.    Elah. 

FiUAL  PiBTT  {4^  3.  vii.  121.)— When  liting 


ntter  absence  of  filial 


everence  thai 


related  by  MooitLAirD  Lad.  A  gentleman  wish- 
ing to  find  oat  a  collier,  whose  name  Z  believe 
waa  'William  Green,  and  having  come  to  the  pit 
to  which  he  had  been  directed,  inquired  for  tiie 
man  of  various  petsona  about  the  pit,  but  no  one 
knew  any  such  a  collier.  He  asked  again  and  tfaia, 
•ad  was  assured  that  the  place  waa  quite  ngh^ 
hot  that  no  William  Green  worked  thereat  was 
kaown  to  any  one  about  the  coalpit  He  was 
about  to  turn  hack  in  ntter  disappinntment, 
when  a  stnrdy  collier  weoch  soddeolT  exclaimed: 
"  Wboy,  dash  moy  boottons !  if  hay  doema'  man* 
moy  fayther:  yo  ahoold  a  axed  for  sud  blue- 
bteet^s."  F.  C.  H. 

"Blwb  Booxs"  anoTED  bt  Butlxk  (4*  8.  vii. 
IS2.>— I  am  not  sun  if  the  inquirer's  nama  is 
ri^dy  printed  A  Hkkford  Pkabsoit,  or  iriiether 
it  skould  not  be  A  Hkbetobii  Pabhov,  but  I 
befiavn  I  can  tmawes  his  quenes.  Fint,  he  aaka 
where  tho  "  Blue  Boolu"  are  to  be  seen.  They 
an  in  the  British  Mnsenm ;  hnt  are  very  rarely  to 
fe«  set  with  any  where  ebe — indeed,  nily  in  the 
Bhiaiks  of  some  few  Catholic  cc^eges  and  of 


tbem  repeatedly.  Them  were  three  of  theae; 
and  they  were  called  "Blae  Booka"  from  'being 
stitched  in  blue,  or  rather  purple  covers.  The 
first  appeared  ia  1780,  the  second  in  1791,  and 
the  third  in  179S.  Mr.  Charles  Butler  wrote  the 
whole  of  the  first  and  third,  and  a  great  part  of 
the  second.  They  contwn  scandalous  doctrine, 
which  no  Catholic  could  be  allowed  to  advocate ; 
so  that  Mr.  C.  Butler's  account  of  them  must  be 
read  with  great  caution  and  distrust.  There  waa 
also  a  "  Buff  Book,"  published  by  the  three  medi- 
ators in  1793.  The  '•Red  Book,"  ao  called  from 
being  bound  in  red  morocco,  waa  never  printed. 
It  was  a  MS.  in  folio,  written  by  Mr.  C.  Butler; 
aod  its  contents  were  similar  to  those  of  bia  first 
"  Blue  Book,"  though  diljerins  in  some  particulara. 
It  was  written  in  1790,  and  addressed  to  the 
Vicaia  Apostolic.  If  further  information  be  de- 
sired, it  will  be  found  in  Bishop  Milner's  Supplt- 
mentary  Slemoiri  of  RtgUA  CathoUct,  and  in  Dr. 
Husenbeth's  lAfe  of  BiAap  Milner.  F.  C.  H. 
"  ItaDAr  Tbsb  "  (4*  a  vii.  123.)— By  Friday 
tree  is  meant  the  cross — the  "  accursed  tret " — 
and  naturally  used  to  express  a  trial  or  misfortune. 
P.  E.  Maisx. 
BBBCEtrsANTa  op  Btsbof  Bbdbll  (4*  S.  v.  311, 
S91 ;  vi.  183  ;  vii.  104.)  —  "  Master  William 
Bedell  and  his  wife"  are  named  amongst  th« 
British  settlers  in  the  county  of  CaTan*to  whom, 
in  accordance  with  the  treaty  made  between  Sir 
Francis  Hamilton  and  the  rebel  chieftain,  Philip 
MacHu^  MacShan  Rely,  June  4, 1643  (wbei«by 
the  casUes  of  Eylagh  and  Crohan  were  to  be  snr- 
the  one    rendered  to  the  rebela),  permisdon  was  gnnted  to 


depart  nnmolested  with  th«r  baggage  in  companT 
with  Sir  F.Hamilton.  "Master  Ambrose  Bedell" 
was  one  of  the  parties  to  the  stirrender  of  Crohan 
Castle.  The  above  notes  are  taken  from  The 
JUbeUitm  in  tie  Comdy  Cavan,  by  Henry  Jonas, 
D,D.  London,  Aiw  II,  1642.  C,  S.  K. 

St.  Petei's  Sqosre,  Hammennihh,  W. 
Shahb  o«  Sham  (4*  S.  -n.  324,  397,  B6Z; 
vii.  10&)  — In  the  east  ai  Cornwall  eotrsibnt 
meana  oow-dung,  and  "the  see,  when  it  assumes 
an  olive-green  birbid  appearance,  as  if  coloured 
with  cow-dung,"  is  spoken  of  as  being  eotPikemy, 
(See  a  "  List  of  Words  "  by  Mr.  T.  Q.  Couch  m 
Jour,  of  Boyul  Ind.  of  Comwoii,  No.  1.) 

Sbara,  Sham,  Shem  are  derived  from  the 
Anglo-Saxon  SMora,  seem,  aeiem,  all  aigni^ing 
dnu.  (S«e  Bosworth'a  Amffk-Sax.  Di€t.) 

Tht  vulgar  word  that  Mb.  Stbphkh  Jacssok 
could  only  hint  at  ia  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  tetUOf 
a  dux  (JliinT  ahi).  Scitim  {cacare)  is  raodeatly 
menlianed  in  Boaworth's  Aitfflo-Saz.  Dial.  The 
aynonvBM  are  Platt-Dentsch  tkiUn,  Dutch  scA^ 
im,  German  scMiam,  Danish  ilade,  leeL  Ajt^ 
Catholic  Doblanwn  and  gndlcaaan.  But  I  Sat<m  ia  probably  from  the  same  root  as  th» 
nailiar  irith  them,  and  nava  aean  and  read  \  Anglo-Saxon  teeoUm,  t^  ahoot.    If  it  ia,  it  agieea 


200 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4>k  S.  Til.  Mabch  4.  TL 


iritli  the  BCDH  in  which,  m  J.  T.  F.  eays,  the 
"  ahootiDgs  "  of  cows  are  referred  to  in  the  North. 

In  the  west  of  Comwnll  the  droppings  of  cattle 
are  termed  "  aon-cakea."  Query,  il  thia  has  any 
connection  with  Mb.  Jackson's  dap-caka.  The 
eeaao  of  cake  seems  to  be  a  mass  oi  lump  of  auj- 
thinr.  The  Keltic  word  coo  or  cdch,  dung,  i« 
found  in  numeroue  languages.  W.  N. 

88,  Sutheiluid  Squue,  BJl. 

Edwabd  Govch,  Centiinasiik  (4'^  S.  vii.  120.) 
In  reference  to  Edward  Couch,  whose  name 
pears  under  the  heading  '' Centenarinnism 
>'  N.  &  Q."  I  addressed  the  following  letter  to  the 
editor  of  the  Wetttm  Morning  Naot :  — 

"  Sib, — My  attention  has  been  called  to  >  blof^phlcal 
sketch  or  Ilia  Ute  Edwird  Coach  in  jour  pap«riStIie  Ist, 
in  which  it  ia  atited  that  he  wu  bom  in  1761. 

"  Some  ten  yum  sinca  the  clergynun  of  tha  parish  in 
which  be  waa  (haD  living  told  me  that  this  old  man 
■teted  hii  age  at  that  time  to  be  near  lOO  ;ean.  He 
asked  me  to  examine  the  register  of  this  parish  la  iseer- 
tain  the  troth,  and  furnished  me  with  the  names  of  hii 

"  I  did  examine  the  reKister,  and  fonnd  that  ho  was 
baptized  in  October,  1TT6,  not  in  1761.  The  old  man 
was  made  acqaainted  with  the  reanit  of  mj  aearch,  bnc 
atill  persisted  in  his  statement  {and  actnally,  some  years 
later,  referred  to  me  as  euChoritT  for  its  truth),  though  he 
did  not  attempt  to  explain  his  baptismal  register  appear- 
ing Sfltm  yean  later. 

"  I  leave  It  to  yea,  Ai,  and  the  pnbHc  to  decide  whe- 
ther, In  sober  truth,  be  died  in  hie  ninety-fltth  or  in  his 
one  hundred  and  tenth  year.  As  these  very  exceptional 
eases  of  loagavitr  are  chronicled,  1  have  thought  it  right 
to  supply  this  evidence.— I  am,  air,  yonr  obedient  servant, 

"  W.  H.  PoLB  CAUW. 

"  Antony,  Torpoint,  Devonport,  Feb.  Srd,  1870." 
Some  of  Edward  Couch's  friends,  veTT  loth 
to  admit  the  pouibilitv  of  his  real  age  having 
been  ninety-five  instead  of  one  hundred  and  ten, 
have  argued  that  "  be  might  have  been  baptized 
when  he  waa  fifteen,  and  that  baptism  in  riper 
years  ia  no  uncommon  occurrence."  Another 
states  that  "  his  youtiger  brother  died  in  the  year 
1S43,  aged  seventy  years,"  and  Tefers  for  proof  of 
this  brother's  age  to  the  renster  of  this  parish 
(Antony).  In  reference  to  tiie  first  sllegntion,  it 
is  at  least  Angular  that,  when  told  of  the  date  as 
^mearingj  in  the  renter — as  he  was,  to  my  know- 
leclge,  twice  over— lie  did  not  say  "  I  was  fifteen 
when  I  was  baptized."  At  that  s«e  such  en 
event  must  have  fixed  itaelf  in  his  memory. 
Moreover,  I  believe  that  baptism  in  riper  yean 
was  at  that  period,  the  latter  part  of  the  last 
century,  much  more  uncommon  even  than  it  is 
now.  As  to  the  second  allegation,  I  have  care- 
fully searched  the  parish  register,  and  cannot  find 
this  brother's  name  at  alL  Your  correspondent 
W.  G.  thinks  that  this  case  m^  be  eadly  tested 
at  the  Admiralty.  Edwwd  Couch's  story  de- 
•cribae  him  as  pressed  iu{o  the  navy  in  1793 — 


this  is  not  at  all  improbable.  If  he  was  baptised 
at  the  usual  time  after  his  birth,  be  would  have 
been  seventeen  in  1793 — doubtless  having  been, 
as  he  stated,  serving  in  a  privateer  before. 

I  do  not  imagine  that  m  those  days,  when  the 
sea-ports  were  swept  by  preaa-gang  crews,  any 
very  accurate  report  was  sent  to  the  Admiralty 
of  uie  ages  of  the  fish  which  they  had  netted. 

W.  H.  PoLB  Cabbw. 

Anteny,  Torpoint.  Devonport. 

[Mb.  Polr  Carkw  has  clearly  demonetrated  that 
Couch  was  really  ninety-dre  ancf  not  one  hundred  and 
ten.  If  any  doubt  as  to  the  truth  could  pouibly  remain, 
it  will  be  removed  bv  the  fact  that  when  Couch  Joined 
H.M.S.  on  JoneSa,  1794,  he  is  deacribed  as  being  nine- 
teen years  of  age,  which  would  mslLe  him  ninety-five  in 
June  last.] 

St.  Michael  Moitsts  of  Cornwall  ahs 
BBHTAMr  (4'"  S.  vii.  125.)— The  deditiition  of  St. 
Michael's  Mount  haa  no  reference  to  serpent  wor- 
ship. The  saint  ia  represented  aa  vanquishbg  the 
devil,  in  allusion  to  Jude  9,  Bev.  xii.  7.  With 
leapect  to  the  mount  on  the  coast  of  Normandy, 
tradition  relates  that  AubertjBiahop  of  Avrsnches, 
when  living  there,  saw  a  viuon  of  the  saint,  who 
commanded  him  to  found  there  a  church  to  his 
honour,  which  command  the  biahop  obeyed.  Sub- 
sequently the  church  on  the  English  mount  was 
erected,  and  being  Jdependent  on  the  French  corn- 
muni^,  was  naturaUy  dedicated  to  the  same 
saint  P.  E.  Maset. 

Stobt  of  a  Siatub  (4*  S.  vii.  1 25.)— An  early 
Tcnion  of  the  atory  referred  to  by  your  corre- 
spondent IiraDIREB,  though  probably  not  the  oii- 
gmal  source  of  the  tale,  nill  be  found  in  WiBiam 
of  Malmeibury's  Chronich  (book  II.  ch.ziii^,  where 
it  is  given  with  much  detail.  W.  F.  R. 

Mr.  Morris  haa  given  an  exquiute  v 


Sabine  Baring-Oould  (Curioua  Mythi,  %e., 
Seiiea  I.  p.  307,  ed.  1866)  quotes  this  story  from 
Fordun'a  Seotichromam,  in  illuatntion  of  the 
legend  of  Tannhauser.  Fordnn  relates  it  as  a  fact 
that  real^  happened  to  a  RoDum  gentleman  in 
the  year  1060.  John  Adsis. 

Bustington,  near  Littlehampton,  Sussex. 

"  The  Heavino  of  ths  Lead"  (4"*  S.  viL  56, 
148.)— This  song  is  by  William  Pearce,  and  will 
be  found  in  his  operatic  farce,  Sart/ord  Bridgt,  or 
r%<  Skitti  of  tht  Camp,  produced  at  Covent  Gar- 
den Theatre  in  1702.  It  is  sud  to  have  been 
written  on  ahipboBnl  some  years  before  the  pro- 
duction of  the  farce,  and  given  to  William  Shield 
the  composer.  For  its  great  and  immediate  popu- 
lar!^ it  was  indebted  not  only  to  the  eziiellent 
music  of  Shield,  but  also  to  the  fine  singing  of 
Charles  Incledon,  the  Tocalis^  from  whose  lips 
the  public  first  heard  ii  W.  H.  IIubk. 


s.Tii.u*RCHi,7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


201 


desites  in  The  Gttualogt/  of  lAe  Cole  Futnily,  by 
James  Ednin-Cole,  8vo  (J,  Riusell  Smith,  Soho 
Squnre,  Londoa) ;  or  further  details  bj  communi- 
catinit  irith  its  writer.  Af  Coillus. 

"Whose  Yestbkdats  look  BiCKWABDS,"  btc, 
(4'*  S.  Tii.  124.)— From  Young's  Night  Thoughu, 
Nig;bt  U.  lines  334-6.  These  two  lioes  form  the 
subject  of  one  of  Stothard's  illustrations  in  Hep- 
tinstall's  edition,  17&8.  The  engraving  in  dated 
Ang.  SO,  1707.  W.  Y. 

St.  Jahe  of  Valoib  (4'»  S.  vi.  380,  466,  559.) 
I  am  much  obliged  to  F.  C.  H.  for  setting  mo  right 
on  II  subject  on  which  I  spoke  too  hsstilj.  My 
little  book,  La  Vie  MtrveiUeuK,  dbtinctlj  asserts 
that  the  queen  was  not  canonised ;  but  its  date  is 
circ.  1670,  and  I  ought  to  have  remembered  that 
bei  canonisation  mi^ht  haye  occurred  since  thnt 
period.  In  truth,  bad  F.  C.  H.  spoken  a  little 
sooner,  I  should  not  bare  presumed  to  enter  the 
lists  on  a  question  of  whicb  he  knows  far  more 
tban  I  do.  Hebmenibcdx. 

The  Hole  nr  mB  Wall  (4'*  S.  vii.  123.)— 
Wall,  not  Weli,  is  assuredly  the  right  reading.  I 
remember  the  sign  in  Bristol,  where  a  wall  was 
represented  with  a  dark  hole  in  the  bricks.  It 
may  have  been  originally  intended  for  &  breach 
made  in  the  rampart  of  a  besieged  city,  or  pos- 
sibly in  nllueion  to  the  Cavenia  Maceria  of  the 
"  Canticle  of  CflnticleH,"  ch.  iL  T.  14. 

F.  C.H. 
Please  note,  p.  123,  the  ngn  is  "The  Hob  in 
tie  Well,"  not  "  The  Hole  in  the  WeU."    K.  L. 
EJDf's  Lysn. 

Babies  Bells  (4"-  S.  vi.  475 ;  Tii.  21, 133.)— 
At  Wentworth  Woodhouse  there  is  a  pretty  and 
interesting  portrait  of  Lady  Henrietta  Maria  Stan- 
ley, Bud  to  be  by  Vandyke,  and  painted  when  she 
WBa  scarcely  a  year  old,  witb  a  coral  and  bells 
banging  from  her  waist  She  was  tbe  daughter 
of  James,  seventh  Earl  of  Derby,  and  Charlotte 
de  la  Tremouille ;  and  brought  this  pictura,  and 
many  others  of  the  Stanley  and  Tremouille  fami~ 
lies,  to  Wentworth,  on  her  marrisge  witb  William 
second  Earl  of  Strafford.   This  is  another  instance 


also,  were  then  ignorant  of  Latin;  and  upon  the 
principle  of  "omoe  ignotum  pro  maffnifico,"  wa 
no  doubt  thought  it  the  moat  flattenog  title  for 
our  specimen.  This  is  taking  it  for  granted  that 
the  word  was  ready  printed  for  tbe  schoolboy  j 
but  in  a  icriptU  (?)  whicb  I  possess  the  words, 
"  Joseph  Eckersley  scripsit,  Dec  17,  1789,"  ate 
all  in  manuscript.  Tbe  centre  is  occupied  by  an 
adjuration  to  Liberty,  in  writing,  surrounded  by 
eDgtaTiniTB  of  tbe  demolition  of  the  Bastile,  July 
1769;askeletooinaeBge;  a  nearly  naked  prisoner; 
another  bebiud  a  grated  window;  the  beheading 
of  the  governor  of  Bastil%  ftc.  &c.  PuUisbed  by 
Robert  Sayer,  53,  Fleet  Street,  Nov.  9,  17^. 
Probably  no  earlier  specimen-pece  than  mioe 
exists.  U.  D. 

Me,  Disos  and  F.  C.  H,  are  quite  right  The 
Chrietmoa  exhibitions  of  peomanabip  were  do 
more  called  "Scripsils"  tnan  engravings  were 
called  "  Sculpsita,"  except  it  might  be  by  such  a 
person  as  be  who,  in  High  Life  bebno  SCairt, 
assures  his  fellow  servants  that  Sbakespenre'e 
plays  were  written  by  Fim't,  for  he  "saw  tbe 
name  at  the  end  of  tbe  book."  C.  C 

Thob.  Stanlet,  Bishop  op  Sodob  aud  Uak 
(4"'S.  y'li.  W.y-Memoira  of  the  Soute  of  SttmUv 
(Seacombe's,  1  believe),  published  by  Joseph 
IlRrrop,  Manchester,  1767,  contains  tbe  bi^op's 
uncouth  rhymes.  The  book  ia  common  in  Lanca- 
shire. P.  P. 


A  ScHTPSiT  (4'»  S.  vi.  667;  vii.  145.)— I  am 
mnch  obliged  by  yonr  severol  correspondents  who 
have  replied  to  my  querv  respecting  the  "  Scriprit," 
which  I  have  no  doubt  is  identical  with  tbeir 
"CImsttaas  pieces,"  although  in  my  scbool^Jioy 
days  they  were  taken  home  at  Midsummer  as  well 
as  at  Christmas.  An  old  school-fellow  recognised 
my  designation  at  once,  vrith  laughing  eyes  at  the 
early  memories  it  called  up,  and  never  knew  it  by 
any  other  title.    Both  I  and  he,  and  our  master 


NOTES  OM  BOOKS.  ETC. 
Joirph  of  Arimalhie,  atheraitt  taStd  The  Romance  of  Ihi 
Smnt  Grmil  or  Holy  Grail.  An  Alliterative  Foem, 
written  about  a,d.  1360.  and  now  Brat  printed  (Tom  the 
Unique  Copy  in  the  Vernon  M3.  it  Oxford.  Witb  an 
Appendix.  eontainioK"TheLffe  of  Joseph  oTArmalby," 
reprinted  from  the  BUck-lelter  Copj  of  Wynkjn  de 
Worde ;  "  De  Sancto  Joseph  lb  Arim»tlu«,"  lint 
printed  by  Pynsoi)  a.d.  IS16 1  and  "Tbe  Lvfe  of  Joseph 
of  Arimstbii."  flret  printed  by  Pvoaoii  a.d.  1S2IX 
Edited,  viiA  2Vote$  and  Gtoforiat  Jndieet,  bf  the  Rev. 
Waller  W.  Skeat.  M.A. 
Sing  Alfnft  Wat  Saxon  Venion  of  Grtgory-t  PattonI 
(fire.  With  nit  Engliili  Tnaulation,  the  Latin  Text, 
Notet.  and  Introductum.  Edited  ty  Henry  Sweet,  Esq., 
ofBallioI  College,  Oxford.  Parti. 
We  have  here  fresh  proofs  of  the  activity  of  the  Eaily 
Englieh  Text  Society  in  (he  shape  of  the  GiM  two  of 
tbe  seveml  volumes  which  will  be  given  to  the  mem- 
ben  in  relnm  fur  their  lubBcriptlons  for  1871.  We 
bave  transcribed  the  titles  st  length,  w  the  beet  way 
of  lowing,  within  the  limited  spice  we  cin  devote 
to  these  notice*,  the  chancter  and  conteats  of  these 
works.  Mr.  Skesl'e  volama,  it  wQl  bo  seen.  Is  *  very 
complete  monograph  of  the  Arimathean  Romance,  with 
IntrodBCtion,  Indices,  Ac.  Of  Mr.  Sweet's  we  will 
merely  say,thst  it  is  the  first  pert  only  of  his  book,  and 
coniiitts  of  the  two  texts  of  the  West  Saxon  version  of 
(iregorv's  Pastoral  Cnte,  from  tbe  Hilton  H8.  and  tba   r- 


Cotton 'USS.  re^ectlvely,  printed  in 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES.  Ci"S.TO.i 


A  New  Bpaniik  Sonm  Ajm  Quebies.— Wg  htve 
Tvceived  the  fint  fonr  numben  of  s  new  Jonnut  intondaj, 
U  ths  pTD^ieotai  informB  ub,  to  do  far  Spain  what  Nola 
and  Queriti  does  for  Eagitaii,  De  Xavoncha-  for  Holland, 
The  BiitOTKal  JUagaiiw  for  the  United  Statu,  nid  L'ln- 
ietmediairt  da  Ckerchain  for  France.  It  is  entitled  EI 
Averiffuador,  Qtrreapoadencia  nUrt  OtriatoM^  J^ilrraiat^ 
Anliquariiti,  S^e.,  and  l»  pabliehed  in  Madrid  on  tlie  1st 
and  Ibtb  of  each  monCb.  Ooioe  to  the  distoibud  stale 
«f  tbe  oaantij,  ita  predecessor,  El  OnunUnr  Eipaanl,  bad 
bat  a  abort  cireor.     El  Antrigitadnr  bas  appeared  at  ■ 

the  jonmal,  wfaicb  oannot  bat  be  ona  of  snat  iateieet  and 
Importance,  not  only  to  Spaoisb  tcholara,  but  to  atudenu 
of  Spaoiib  literature  alt  ory  tbe  world. 

The  Sooiett  ot  Biblioal  Anonjenl/rai.— Thia  ti 
the  title  of  a  societj,  now  in  couibo  of  formation,  having 
tor  its  object  tbe  invefiti^atLoQ  of  tbe  biatorj,  geograpbjj 
and  antiquidea  of  Bible-Iaade. 

The  Pbbtatel'ch  iCCOECiso  to  the  Talitco. — 
This  work  is  in  Doares  of  preparation  nndBr  tbe  joint 
editorabip  of  Paul  Herahoa  and  the  Bev.  Dr.  Margo- 
liouth,  and  is  to  be  ieeued  in  parts  by  subscription,  bj 
Ueun.  Bagster  &  Bon.  Genesis  will  talie  up  six  parts, 
and  cost  a  guinea. 

Tas  Nationai.  Gallebt.— Sir  Walter  James,  Bart, 
has  Iwen  appointed  a  director  in  succession  to  LordOrer- 

LoHDOE  Ihterkatiokal  EZHIBITrOIT  OF  1871. — 
Daring  the  wedi  ending  February  SAtli,  paintioea,  sculp- 
ture, engraviogs,  and  pbotogtapby.  aichiCectural  designa, 
lapratries,  carpets,  embroideries,  designs  for  decorative 
maunfactarea  and  reprcductions ;  also  nearly  2000  ob- 
jects of  pottery,  specimens  of  wooUena  and  worsteds,  and 
educational  appliances — making  in  all  a  total  of  about 
3SO0  objecU,  were  delivered  at  the  Eibibition  Qolleries. 
Foreign  objects  arrived  from  Belgium,  the  German  Em- 
pire, Portugal,  Russia.  Spain,  Hong^kong,  and  Tnnis. 

Thk  Bkv.T.  W.  WbABk,— "  Westminster  Schoolmen," 
says  the  i'oZf  Mull  Gazttte.  "  will  be  sorry  to  bear  of  the 
death  of  the  Rev.  Thomas  William  Weare,  U.A.,  who 
was  for  more  than  twenty  years  second  maater.  He  re- 
tired in  1S61,  and  was  some  time  afterwards  appointed 
by  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbnry  (Dr.  Loogley)  to  the 
rectory  of  Isfield,  Sussex.  Mr.  Weare  was  educated  at 
Chriatcharoh,  Oittord,  where  lie  took  bis  B,A.  degree 
in  183S.  Afterwards  ha  edited  the  Oxford  Archaoliigi- 
cal  Sode^'s  publicatioas,  aad  tranalatad  into  English 
vnse  Plaiti  Triniainm.  Pethapi  his  best  known  work 
is  a  paper  in  Hr.  Gilbert  ScoU's  Gltaniasi  /mm  Wett- 

TnE  Cewtekart  op  Sin  Walteb  Scott. — The  Duke 
oT  Buccleucb  has  agreed  to  preside  at  the  celebration  of 
the  centenary  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  in  Edinbargh,  in 
Augnal  next. 

Lord  BaolTOiiAif. — A  marbk  bast  of  this  late  states- 
man has  been  recently  pbtced  in  tbe  Conndl  Chamber  at 
Goildbalt.  The  sculptor,  Mr.  O.  G.  Adatna,  would  appear 
to  have  been  eminently  SDCcessIiil  in  his  work. 


BOOKS    AND    ODD    VOLUMES 

WlinXD  TO   PVBCHASE. 

..EH.  ac,  of  Ihc  AilLoirEiis  B«ki  li]  bemt  dinci 

tfa«|ntl«iHtif  wliomtber  ue  rfi^iuTad,  vhoH  nuuH  ud  ftddni 


UHl,  br  Jiha  Lodn.  Ek..  niiKd  and  oi. 
bdali.  AM.   Sn.    DihUii.  IMS.    ^]  tu  uj 

iTsigfJI.  UiAlum  Hook,  CdU*i*  Bo^ 


^oticei  U  CttttetpaOitatU. 


nud  ^  Ail  drta^Ml 

Chattkhtos.— SffntAejf't  Letirr  rtipeclmg  Ihi  Monx- 

nuHtlD  CliailertimiipriiiUdui"S.  &  Q."  2"i  S.  iv.  325. 

C.  B.  'T.-~''BUU  rdatiag  (o  tHe  Saeertlmand  Membtn 

ttht  Royal  Fatmly  "  are  alioay  tarried  do*m  Jhxm  (He 
■tls  to  At  Comnumt  lyj/  two  of  ike  Judpee, 

£LAX.~ne  old  ballad,  "litatlt  and  die  Lm^,"  it  too 
bmg  far  mtrtiiM  in  "  N.  &  Q."  /(  it  friated  u  diap- 
peU't  Popnlar  Music  of  the  Oldsn  Time,  p.  167,  <niif  u  n 
nuiifeuIuweiUit/^A  Guide  to  Haaven,  12mo,  1738. 

C.  D.  C.—  Tlie  DoBietday  nf  Suaex,  intt  the  modem 
namea  of  the  pariihet,  hat  not  Of  rs  puttiinked. 

Cauliso  Snm>Ai.— RusTicus.  See  "N.  &  Q."  l" 
S.iiiM9;  T.  611. 

FoxKD.— If  Y.  B.  L.  geti  holdi  if  a  booi  deicribed  <u 
foxed,  he  will  Jmd  it  iluinuJ  and  ditcoloand,  the  itaim 
betas  comimmls/  of  a  foxy  colour. 

G.  (Edinbargh.)  ITt  ftiile  tympatkiie  milh  our  Cor- 
rerpond^it. 

HOKITITIA,  N.  Z.—  IFe  iha<a  our  Correiipoiidt»t  bt 
Nca  Ztaland,  W.  P.  C,  aad  regret  that  hii  commnmea- 
tion  thould  have  been  mUicipaied, 

The  Pkodioal  Smt.—ff'  T.  S.  A.  earn  ameeaieaUf 
irnd  rat  (J.  T.  FowLEB.  F.S.A.,  Hatfield  Hall,  Durhaat^ 
the  priatt  by  booi-pott  I  thi^  bt  nmcA  oblmed,  and  aiU  a  t 
once  return  them,  I  am  prtlty  nr<  thai  ao$e  I  had  lees 
on  copper-plates. 

Bristol  PoaT-OriiCE,  —  Our  Corretpoadeat  thoald 
faraard  the  lilt  of  hit  baoil  la  hli  atighliour,  Mr.  Sen- 

To  all  commumcatuMi  thould  be  affixed  the  name  and 
addrell  of  the  tender,  not  neceuari/y  for  pablication,  bat 
OI  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 


U  CLDBBODSi  Mora,  am  pinif  ■  anyiliBit  nf  the  Hndia  snUuir 
^.  Ttaanrp^utabawu9iair>'kH>.lli«ill«U»iiiioM1iu 
nlbtied  l*^"*  "•  SSSSKn'SBJwlISS&iMlttdbtm'o 


MANILA  CIGARS.— MESSRS.  VENNING  &  CO. 
BfiT.BiSTraDr- "-- 


jOOc^  Ic 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


LOlTDOlf,  BATURDAT,  UARCB  11,1871. 


CONTENTS.— N«  167. 

KOTES :  —  HuTii«ci  Dt  Engtiih  PrineeuM.  ZOS  —  EvMom 
(if  LoDdoni  Abrnnce.SM— eirayNoteleta  DnHarbsuid 
Leaitia,  SOS  —  Shop  Signs  in  TSenna—Tbe  Surname  E>rt- 
cen,  6«ni»lii,  or  mrrMln  —  Uuidcl'i  Concerto  for  the 
Ham  —  Ia  Bruv«re  ind  (ha  BookiiellBr'a  Daugfatcr  -^ 
Balloons  and  Ibe  Siege  of  Parli-The  Phcenii  Park- 
Anecdote  of  Dr.  Johnion—  Balladi  \ij  Lady  Marj  Worl- 
ley  HunUBU  and  Lord  diesterfleld.  IM. 

QUBKIBS;  —  Bel  I- H  irp  —  Bezant  and  Plorin  —  Bobadil 

—  Chauce  '    "      ~  '  -     ■■  ■    - 

buried  at 
of  Udy  Ft 

board  — JudiciaiaithB -Hoof  P^k  —  MorUi , 

March  -  Mourning  or  Blackedged  Writtng  Paper  —  Mn. 
Oom  —  Pasley  or  I^lewe  —  Poreelain  Queiy— Paalm  uiil. 

—  Bhalespsare's  "  Bcamels  "--The  Sun  nerar  aeta  on  the 

—  Tho  Wblto  Totter  of  Laudoa  —  Why  doea  a  newly-born 
Child  cry  F  108. 

BBPLIE3:— "Pranr'i  KanriDe,"  !«., £11  —  Hoont  Cal- 
»ary,  IIS  — Meaning  of  ■•Fog,"  il8  —  The  Block-Bookj, 
a7— The  idvent  Hymn:  ■'^Helanley."  K.  — The  Balti- 
more and  "  Old  Mortality  "  Patenona.  £18  —  Ponnjtenan 
(or  Pi:nnylenal),  Cunstone,  Ac.,  £1B  — Alexander  Jamle- 
•OD,  M.I.—  Wifeof  George  Neville,  Lord  Latimer—"  The 
H«na  or  Hen  which  fondly,"  ftc.-"  Phl-Beta-Kapoa" 
Society  or  Botton  —  Descrndanla  of  Charlea  Brandon, 

■Tho 


Ju A  of  Buflblk  —  Patronymic  Prefii  ■•  Mac  "— Bo- 
Curtapyi-"Tbe  Hob  la  the  Well "  -  Bamplera 
Prim  or  Quldo'i  Aurora  — Origin  of  the  Surnaoii 
ningham  —  ■■  God  made  Uao,"  \a„  tie. 
Kotea  on  Booka.  ko. 


»aUS. 
MARRIAGES  OF  ENGLISH  PRINCESSES. 

Mr.  Gladstone  stated  in  the  House  of  Commoiis 
on  Feb.  13,  1671,  that— 

■■  It  was  no  umuual  thing  in  the  liU(or7  of  this  conntry, 
but  fur  oCherwiae,  for  persons  of  the  Koyal  House  to  be- 
stow Iheir  hand  opon  British  subjects," 

The  Premier  made  this  statement  in  aopjiort  of 
bia  motion  to  provide  a  dowry  for  the  Kinceas 
Louise,  "in  riew  of  her  ftppioBching  mturiege," 
with  her  Mnjesty's  consent^  to  the  son  of  a  Scot- 
tish peer.  It  has  become,  therefore,  an  intetest- 
ing  qnestion  what  precedents  there  are  in  English 
historj  of  the  daughtera  and  sisters  of  the  reign- 
ing sovereign  marrjing  British  subjects  mth  ihe 
royal  auent.  I  have  only  been  able  to  find  three 
mA  imtances—tXl  of  them  in  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury, and  all  of  them  with  personages  of  great 
power  and  wealth — who  accepted  the  condition 
of  receiying  no  dowriee,  and  of  resettling;  their 
TMt  estates  with  leTeraion  to  the  Crown,  to  the 
exclusion  of  their  own  kindred.  All  the  other 
raaniagea  of  English  princesses  to  husbands  not 
royal  were  either  to  foreignera  of  royal  descent 
and  connectioiis,  like  Ingelmm  de  Ooucy,  or  were 
contracted  without  the  leave  of  the  sovereign. 
The  daughters  of  Edwaid  IV,  cannot  be  quoted 
as  an  esoeplion,  for  they  were  married  after  the 
fall  of  their  dynasty,  and  after  they  had  ceased  to 
be  regarded  as  princesses  of  the  reigning  House. 


The  first  of  these  three  marriages  with  the 
King's  consent  is  that  of  Eleanor,  the  youngest 
daughter  of  King  John,  to  William  Mareschall, 
Earl  of  Pembroke.  Iler  husband  was  the  first 
subject  in  the  realm,  end  his  father  had  lately 
been  the  Regent  of  England;  but  Henry  III. 
thought  it  necessary  to  apologise  for  consenting 
to  such  a  match,  and  his  letter  to  hia  proctors  at 
Rome  is  Still  extant,  and  runs  as  follows,  in  a 
translation  slightly  abbreviated :  — 

"  Since  there  are  same  people  perhapawbo,  by  sng- 
gertionto  tlie  Lord  Pope  and  the  Cardinala,  will  tr;  to  put 
an  evil  construction  oo  what  has  lately  been  done  by  ui 
on  the  counsel  of  our  magnates  and  lieges,  we  have 
undertaken  to  explain  the  whole  cooraa  of  the  affair  to 
put  you  more  on  your  guard  iu  refuting  their  iusiauations. 

"  Ktiow  then,  that  when  the  Biahop  of  Norwich  was 
Legate  in  England,  the  Eail  Harshal  waa  still  in  po3se»- 
aioaorthe  myaj  caelles  of  Marlborough  and  Ludyerahall, 
.and  was  proposing  to  take  to  wife  the  sister  of  Earl 
Robert  de  Brns,  and  there  were  also  other  magnates  in 
England  who  were  trying  to  draw  him  astray  from  us 
by  alliances  to  our  wrong.  The  question,  therefore,  of 
glvlnc  him  one  of  onr  aiatera  was  handled  before  the 
Lord  Legate  and  onr  Justiciary  and  other  magnatea ;  for 
it  waa  feared  that,  if  the  Earl  Marshal  married  the  sistci 
of  the  Earl  de  Brus,  this  foreiiiu  alliance  would  give  too 
free  an  ingress  into  England  to  foreigners,  especially 
when  Blchard  Marshall,  the  Earl's  brother,  held  alt  his 
castles  and  honour  in  Normandy;  and  moreover,  the  ill- 
fealing  of  those  who  were  trying  to  draw  sway  the  Earl's 
heart  from  ns  was  a  subject  of  sppreUensiou.  Whereas, 
if  we  gave  him  cue  of  our  sisters,  the  seid  castles  would 
be  restored  to  us,  which  was  a  matter  of  great  import- 
ance, and  other  magnates  would  be  induced  by  his  ex- 
ample to  give  up  the  castles  which  they  held.  Consideritig 
then  the  premises,  and  our  tender  age  and  the  state  of 
the  realm,  one  of  our  sisters  was  by  the  authority  of  the 
Legate  and  the  coua«el  of  tho  magnates  grauted  to  the 
Earl  Morshal  on  the  terms  that  he  gaveliis  pledge  to 
marry  her,  if  it  so  pleased  us  and  the  magnates  of  the 
realm.  Our  Justiciary  pledged  binuelf  to  this  concesaioa 
to  the  Marshal,  if  the  magnates  consented',  and  the 
Legate  and  Justiciary,  and  the  others  who  were  present. 


of  ihe  Legate  on  condition  that,  if  the  contract  was  not 
fulfilled  within  a  certain  period,  which  has  !ong  passed, 
they  should  be  restored  to  the  Marshal  withont  difficulty. 
Wben  all  this  was  intimated  soon  afterwanla  to  the  other 
magnates,  and  particularly  to  the  Earl  of  Chester,  nho 
had  just  come  home  from  the  Holy  Land,  tho  Earl  loudly 
approved  of  it,  and  the  others  consented  without  a  single 
dissentient.  Aflerwards,  however,  when  certain  qoarrels 
had  grown  up.  there  were  some  who  disapproved,  assert- 
ing, as  will  perhaps  be  said  on  their  behalf  in  the  Coart 
at  KomE^  that  we  had  no  treasare  of  more  value 
than  the  marriage  of  ounetf  and  onr  sbters ;  and 
that,  Ihertfore,  our  aiatera  ahould  be  ao  placed  in  mar- 
riage as  to  give  us  a  great  Blltanee  in  foreign  parts. 
Thus  the  buainess  remained  long  uncompleted.  But 
when  the  Eerl  Marshal  bad  lately  obtained  an  apostolic 
mandate,  addressed  to  my  lords  dr  Canterbury  and  Salis- 
tmrVi  that  they  should  either  absolve  bim  fhim  his  obU- 
gation  to  many  onr  alcter  or  sliould  see  the  contract 
fnlfilled,  the  Marahal  insisted  that  one  of  the  two  courses 
should  be  taken  forthwith,  as  be  refused  to  wait  any 
longer  lor  a  wife.  It  was  now  feared  tbat  the  Har- 
Bhal,  who  was  ■  man  of  great  power  both  in  England 
and  Ireland,  ahonld  take  to  wift  the  nster  of  the  Earl  da 


NOTES  AND  QUEKIES.         [4.^s.vii.  Maechu 


Bros  OT  the  dmgbtcr  of  thg  Dnke  of  Bnbint  (wbo  bid 
■Im  been  oUtred  to  him),  which  for  the  nuni*  alraadf 
giTCO  would  be  tnocb  ej^aliut  onr  intereri ;  or  leet  he 
■boDld  nuuTT  the  liater  of  the  King  of  Scotland,  which 
would  he  Mill  mora  duitrtioiu  for  na,  u  Scolland  ia  m 
MDCh  nearer  to  InUod  end  to  the  Hanhal's  domiias. 
Centering,  Iberefore,  the  Taloar  and  power  of  the  Mar- 
All,  and  the  faithfol  n-vice  be  baa  wrought  in  Walc^ 
vbera  be  wreMed  from  the  binda  of  LlBwdlrn  Prince  of 
NoTtb  Walea  OUT  cartlea,  which  hot  for  him  had  been  lost 
to  at  i  and  also  aonaidering  the  example  of  Philip  aome- 
lime  King  of  France,  who  mairled  his  dioghlen,  sister^ 
and  niece*  to  the  Coiint  of  Lemur  and  theConnt  of  Poat- 
bieaandotbenaf  hlisalrisets,Jiut  (Sthe  preeent  King 
of  France  Utel)' married  bis  niece,  the  danf^ter,  to  wit, 
^  (iniscard  de  Bean|eD,  to  the  Connt  of  Champagne. 
Considering  the  premuet  and  the  great  things  which  an 
expected  from  the  Uirahal,  it  ooearred  to  tu  and  oar 
ODoneil,  after  wdgbin^  alt  the  eircumstanoea,  that  we 
donld  not  marrf  onr  uiter  in  any  other  qaarter  so  mnch 
to  our  profit  and  honoar:  we  have  therefore  by  their 
OOnasel,  after  careful  ddiberatiDn,  given  to  the  Harshal 
onr  foanger  riiter  to  wife  without  anjr  loes  of  land, 
castka,  or  monej'." 

The  Frincaas  Eleanor  kfterwerds  muried 
Simon  da  MontfbrL  bat  thej  were  married  in 
secret  under  donbtnil  circumstaocea,  and  Simon 
was  a  Frenchman,  brother  to  the  Couatable  of 
France,  and  onlj  Engliab  through  his  grand- 
mother,  the  coheiress  ot  the  earldom  of  Leicester. 
The  eecand  mamage  is  that  of  Joan,  daughter 
«f  Edward  I.,  in  1290,  to  Gilbert  de  Clare,  in 
-whom  the  earldom  of  Hertford  was  united  with 
the  semi-royal  houour  of  Gloucester  aud  with  the 
Jiish  principality  of  Strongbow,  and  who  is  called 
bj  Matthew  of  Weatminater  "  the  most  powerful 
man  in  the  kingdom  next  to  the  King."  The 
Earl  was  compelled  aa  a  condition  of  hb  marriage 
to  surrender  into  the  King's  hands  tike  whole  of 
hia  TSat  possesmons  in  England,  Wales,  and  Ire- 
land, and  the  King  took  formal  posseadon  of 
-them.  The;  were  uen  regranted  to  the  Earl  and 
the  Princeaa  Joan,  and  their  heira,  with  the  re- 
version to  the  princess,  to  the  exclusion  of  the 
family  of  Clare. 

The  third  marriage  is  that  of  Elizabeth,  eighth 
daughter  of  Edward  L,  in  1302,  to  Humphrey  de 
Bohnn,  Earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex,  and  High 
Constable  of  England,  who  subraitted  to  the  same 
conditions  as  Earl  Gilbert;  for  he  resigned  to  the 
King  his  nine  castles  and  forty-nine  manors,  and 
his  hereditary  office  of  Consteblej  and  accepted  a 
regraot  of  the  same  with  a  proTiao  of  a  rererrion 
to  the  Cronn  in  exclusion  of  his  own  kindred. 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that,  whatever  excellent 
roasooa  there  may  be  for  the  approaching  mar- 
riage of  Princess  Louise,  auch  a  marrimre  is  in 
many  respects  without  precedent  in  English  his- 

Tbwabs. 


EARLDOM  OF  LOUDON  i  ABETAKCE. 

The  case  of  the  Countess  of  London  affords  a 
complete  and  satisfactorrproof  of  the  difference 
between  the  Scotish  and  English  law  on  the  sub- 
ject of  abeyance.'  Her  ladyship's  brother,  the 
Ji[ar(|nia  of  Hastings,  was  an  English,  Irish,  and 
Scotiab  peer.  The  earldom  of  Loudon  came  to 
him  in  wtue  of  a  Scotish  patent  under  a  destina- 
tion to  Aenv.  Hia  Irish  earldom  and  English 
marquisate  were  to  bein  male  of  the  original 
patentee.  Hia  English  baronies  were  held  under 
writs  of  summons. 

Unon  hia  death,  NoTember  10, 1868,  the  Irisli 
eorlaom  and  English  marquisate.  lapsed  for  want 
of  heirs  male,  and  the  latter  became  extinct.  The 
baronies  by  writ  fell  in  abeyance  amongst  hia  four 
sisters,  Lady  Edith,  Lady  Bertha,  Lady  Victoria, 
and  I«dy  F^ncia.  But  the  Scotch  earldom,  in 
consequence  of  the  destination  to  Aei'ra,  fell  to  the 
Mat  sister,  according  to  the  law  of  that  country. 
If  the  English  doctnne  of  abeyance  could  have 
had  any  operation  in  Scotland,  the  Loudon  earl- 
dom would  have  fallen  in  abeyance  between  the 
four  sisters  of  the  deceased  Marquis  of  Hastings 
who  through  a  female  descent  was  Earl  of  Lou- 
don. But  snch  -was  not  the  case.  The  eldest 
aister  became  ^urs  sangumit  Countess  of  Loudon, 
the  honours  passing,  without  any  form  of  service, 
to  her  as  the  next  Iteir.  Excepting  to  prove  pro- 
pinquity, when  it  is  disputed,  a  a"""""  ■"  ""- 


effect  upon  a  title  o 
service  would  be  a  verj  dangerous  affair.  For 
example :  if  a  peer  or  a  baronet  die  in  debt, 
his  next  heir  incurs  no  liability,  although  he 
takes  and  uses  the  honours,  these  coming  to 
him  by  right  of  blood;  but  U  he  were  to  serve 
heir,  he  becomes  liable  for  the  debts  of  hia  preda- 

Thus,  although  the  countess  succeeded  to  the 
earldom  enjoyed  by  her  brother,  and  took  the 
honours  of  London,  she  incurred  no  liability  for 
his  immense  debts  by  so  doing. 

These  observations  may  not  be  withont  their 
value  in  England,  where  the  rules  of  succession  to 
dignities  in  Scotland  are  not  nnfrequently  mis- 
represented before  tribunals  where  English  law- 
yers should  be  better  instructed.  By  the  Act  of 
Union  of  the  Kingdoms  of  England  and  Scolland, 
the  law  of  the  latter  country  was  to  be  preserved, 
which  it  assuredly  would  not  if  the  doctrine  of 
abeyance  was  to  be  imported  into  the  law  of 
Scotland. 

Lady  Loudon,  with  her  three  sisters,  has  a 
separate  claim,  from  being  a  co-hw«ss.  to  tha 
English  baronies ;  but  aa  the  crown  has  the  right 
of  summoning  any  one  of  the  ladies,  it  may  happen 
that  her  ladyship  may  not  be  the  one  aelected,  aa 
occurred  in  the  claim  some  years  ago  advanced  to 


4«S.VII.  MAECHlt.71.] 


NOTES  AND  QDESIES. 


205 


tho  Terr  old  barony  of  HAstings,*  which  was  givea 
to  the  descendant  of  a  yoonger  siat«r,  whilst  the 
npteseotation  was  vested  in  the  ancient  familj  of 
L^trenge  aa  heirs  of  line  of  an  elder  sister. 

J.M. 


STRAr  N0TELET3  OX  HEHB3  AHD  LEAVES. 
No.  11. 
■•  Wlun  I  killed  ana  a  bir  stras^eith, 
Dj  loBB  o'  blood  and  iraiit  or  breatli,'' 
exdaima  Death  in  Butdb's  Dtath  and  Doctor  Horn- 
bock  (34tli  atansa) ;  and  I  take  this  "  fair  strae- 
death  "  to  be  a  death  of  quietnesa  and  old  age  in 
one's  own  quiet  bed  containing  oi  consisting  of 
moetlj  a  atraw  mattreaa  or  straw  pallet  in  poor 
houaenolds.    Thus  "  Martha  "  of  bad  repute  in 
Qoethe's  Fault,  part  I.  Werke  in  40  vols.,  vol.  xL 
p.  132)  exclaims — 

"Gott  Tcmifa'tmeinem  lieben  Maao, 
ir  nicht  wohlgethi 


Left  her,  sweet  Grefchen's  had  angel,  alone  on 
the  "strae."  And  this  expression  will  help  Eng- 
lish readers  better  to  understand  a  German  word 
the  meaning  of  which  I  have  often  been  asked 
about;  Strokwittwt,  i.  e.  Uterallj  a  "straw- 
widow"  (mock-widow,  as  the  Oerman-English 
dicUonariea  fpva  it) — a  wife  left  alone  on  the 
"  straw  "  during  her  husband's  temporary  absence. 
It  is  a  most  common  efeiy-dajr  ezptesaion  of  all 
classes  in  Germany,  just  like  the  word  Stroh- 
wittaer,  "straw- widower."  Thus  Baedecker,  the 
Glerman  Muttbt,  in  his  well-knowa  handbook  of 
GennoDj,  speakmg  of  Vegesack,  near  Bremen, 
■aja:— 

"  It  ia  tbe  head-qnirtara  of  muiy  Milort*  widows  and 
■  itraw-vidows '  (AroAinUBni),  who  live  htm  in  small 

a  fitted  np  cabin-liki  "  ''■"■ 
.     _     of  dear  old  Pogott 
DttOKltbnd,  ed.  ISfiS,  IL 

During  the  time  of  the  Fronde  (middle  of  the 
seventeenth  century)  all  tbe  adherents  of  the 
royal  princes,  and  decided  antagonists  of  Cardinal 
Ihiann  (Prime  Minister  in  1643),  wore  a  small 
bunch  of  straw,  moat  probably  in  remembrance  of 
tbe  Middle  Ages,  when  a  broken  straw  was  the 
«gn  of  the  French  vaasals'  renouncing  their  loyal 
obedience.     Mademoiselle  de  Montpen^erf  ap- 

*  Tbis  ia  aa  older  barony  tbiQ  the  one  in  tbe  peraon  of 
the  historical  Loid  Hastinga,  who  wsa  pat  to  death  b^ 
Bichard  III.,  and  which  honour  aubaeqnentty  merged  in 
the  earldom  of  HantiaKtoD. 

t  Anne-Harie-Loaiae  d'Orl<<ana  (bom  1627,died  1693), 
Dneliase  de  Hontpenaler,  better  known  under  tbe  name 
of  Hademoiaelle  da  Montpenaier  or  "  Mademoiselle"  "  la 
mnda  MademoiMlle,"  in  Madame  de  S^Tign^a  Xetfm. 
\Vid*  her  wsU-kDOWD  iBtter  of  December  1^  1670,  treat- 
ing on  tbe  first  none  of  "  HadamDiselle's  "  marriage  with 
Uumo ;  ed.  Grouvalle,  Paria,  1606, 1. 182-134.) 


{wared  in  public  with  a  small  bunch  of  straw 

tied  with  ribbons  ofthe  colours  of  the  royal  princes 
fastened  to  her  fan.  (I  owe  these  facts  to  my 
memory,  but  cannot  remember  in  which  Mimoires 
OT  Lettre*  I  have  seen  them  stated.) 

Not  many  years  ago  it  was  still  the  hereditary 
custom  in  Germany  that  when  a  young  country 
girl  had  lost  hei  greatest  pride,  her  honour 
{Ehre),  she  was  led  tnrough  her  native  village  ia 
a  straw  wreath  or  straw  crown — a  mockeiy  of 
the  bridal  wreath  or  ciown  of  the  veatal  myrtle, 
which  by  rights  only  belonged  and  still  belongs  to 
a  virginal  bnde.  ("N.&Q.^' i-*  S.  May  1.)  Itwas 
also  tne  custom  in  Germanv  formerly  to  present  tba 
bridewithastrawwreatbthedayafterthe  wedding. 
This  ceremony  was  always  acoompanied  by  funny, 
witty,  and  often  Tirobably  very  coarse  speech^ 
the  so-called  Strohhranxraiktt  (straw-wreath  ora- 
tions). When  Frederick  the  Great  of  Prussia  was 
celebrating  the  nuptials  of  bis  brother  in  1742 
this  old  ceremony  was  celebrated  too,  in  spite  of 
the  FVencb  ^lish  of  tbe  court  {grattta  U  Ratse). 
That  great  king  had  chosen  Baron  Bielfeld  to 
deliver  the  speech  or  oration  to  the  royal  bride. 
(Vide  LettrufamiUiret  A  la  Sam.  Par  leBaron 
da  BidfM,  1763,  ii.  94.)  This  took  place  the 
day  after  the  marriage,  of  course,  just  when  the 
royal  party  was  going  to  ut  down  to  supper.  A 
young  easier  was  carrying  the  prettily  arranged 
straw  wreath,  which  was  adorned  with  small 
images  of  wax.  Twelve  cavaliers  with  wax  torches 
were  at  the  same  time  marching  round  tbe  apart- 
ment, hinting  bv  gestures  that  they  were  looking 
for  what  had  been  lost  the  night  before.  Not 
being  able  to  achieve  this,  of  course  they  stood 
still,  and  Baron  Bielfeld  stepped  forth  and  bwan 
to  deliver  his  Strohkramre^,  which  was  filled 
with  the  most  powerful  eipreaaions,  hints,  and 
allusions,  but    was   nevertheless   received   with 


the  royal  bridegroom  had  to  do  the  same. 

Who  of  ns  has  not  put  a  rose-leaf  into  a  book, 
and  has  found  it  in  after  years  without  being  able 
to  remember  when  and  why  it  was  put  there  P 
"A  withered,  llfeloa,  vacant  form. 
It  lies  on  my  abandoned  bieait  I  "  * 

Who  of  OS  does  not  know,  too,  the  charming 
story  of  Smindirides  the  Sybarite,  who  could  not 
sleep  on  account  of  a  creased  rose-leaf  on  his 
couch  F  worse  than  Andersen's,  dear  Andersen's, 
real  princess,  who  could  not  rest  on  account  of  the 
pea  under  her  twelve  mattresses,  and  was  on  that 
account  diacovered  to  be  a  real  and  no  sham  prin- 
ceaaF  And  who  does  not  know  tbe  still  more 
charmiogstory  of  that  Eastern  sage  Abdul-Kadri, 
who  could  not  be  received  as  a  resident  within 
the  walls  of  Babylon,  putting  a  rose-leaf  on  the 

•  Shelley. 


206 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.         [4"-s.vii.  m*bch1i,7i. 


enrTace  of  tlie  brimful  resMl  which  waa  ehown 
to  bim  aa  a  Bjmbol  f  Is  thb,  then,  the  reaaon  why, 
as  a  young  friend  from  Smyrna  told  me,  a  rose- 
leaf  (I  am  alluding  here  to  the  pdalt  of  coune) 
there  and  elsewhere  in  the  East  ia  considered  as 
the  symbol  of  "let  ma  or  my  love  not  tiouble 
Toa"  P  Who  has  not  heard  of  Goethe's  "  Wenn 
ich  dich  liebe,  was  geht'a  dich  an  P  "  Less  known, 

Sirhapa,  than  that  pretty  "story "  is,  that  the 
reek  youths  took  a  rose-leaf,  and  slightly  draw- 
ing the  left-hand  together,  put  it  on  the  opening 
thus  formed ;  then  with  their  ri^bt-hand  they 
gave  it  a  blow  to  produce  a  clappmg  noise.  He 
whose  rose-leaf  did  not  "report'  was  said  to  be 
unhappy  in  love.  ( Vide  Tbeocritus's  I^Ut,  the 
third.)  And  a  somewhat  similar  custom  still  pre- 
Ttula  on  the  Continent,  where  a  rose-leaf  is 
g^ered  together  in  the  manner  of  a  small  pouch; 
this  has  to  be  cracked  with  a  loud  noise  either  on 
the  foiehead  or  the  upper  part  of  the  lefl  hand. 
If  it  produces  a  pretty  pleasing  sound  when 
thus  cracked,  the  person  yon  have  in  your  mind 
or  heart  thinks  of  you ;  or  some  aay  it  means  the 
foreboding  of  a  kiss. 

Until  latelv  it  was  always  conjectnred  tiiat  the 
old  name  of  Morea  for  the  Grecian  Peloponnesus 
owed  its  oriein  to  its  fancied  resemblance  to  a 
mulbenr-lewi  but  this  seema  to  have  been  a  fan- 
ciful delusion  of  some  poetic  geographer  or  de- 
linealoi  of  maps.  As  an  emblem,  howerer,  the 
mnlberry-leaf  was  taken  by  Ludovico  Sfcvia  (the 
hero  of  Mas»nger's  exquisite  gem.  The  Duke  of 
Milan),  who  adopted  it  or  a  branch  of  the  mul- 
berry-tree aa  a  surname — Moro  (Lat  Monti). 
It  ia  the  tvpe  of  wisdom,  prudence,  foredght^ 
as  the  mulberry-tree  (Morug,  L.)  only  pute  forth 
its  leaves  when  night  frosts  hare  no  longer  to  be 
feared.  Legend,  tnat  sweeteet  deceiver,  tells  us 
that  the  white  berries  (^Monu  alba,  L.)  of  the 
tree  were  changed  into  purple  ones  (Morut  nigra, 
L.)by  tbehloodof  Pyramus,  amulbeny-tree  over- 
shadowing "old  Ninny's  tomb  " — 
"  To  meet  at  Sinns'  tomb,  ther^  there  to  woo. 


Anon  comas  Pyramns,  sweet  youth  and  tall. 
And  finds  his  Irasty  ThUby'a  manlta  alain ; 
Whereat  with  blade,  with  bloody  blaoieftd  blade. 
He  bravely  broach'd  his  boiling  bloody  bniaat. 
And  Thisby,  taTT}'in((  in  mulberry  shade. 
His  dagger  drew  and  died."  • 

In  that  pleasant  book,  Nares's  Qhttary,  the 
Tenerable  archdeacon  writes  under  the  head  of 
"Rosemary":— 

"  Roaemarr  waa  alao  carried  at  ftmerals,  probably  tat 
its  odour,  and  ai  a  token  of  remembraitceor  the  deceased  t 
which  cnslom  ia  noticed  aa  late  as  the  time  of  Gay  [ob. 
1732]  in  his  Fatloral  Dirgt.    Mentioned  also  here— 

*Jilidimiaia--Ifighl't  Dnam,  Act  V.  Sc  1. 


iprtg  of  rDHHury,  dippd  in  common  water. 
smtfl  at  aa  tbey  walk  aloug  the  streets."  ■ 

Cartwright's  Ordmary,  Act  T.  Sc.  I. 

Is  tiiia  custom  of  carrying  snch  a  sprig  of  rose- 
mary at  funerals  still  now  and  then  observed  in 
England,  and  in  which  counties?  I  remember 
a  very  largo  Odd-fellows'  or  Foresten'  funeral  id 
the  North  of  Yorkshire  (1S64),  where  two  men 
always  walked  abreast,  with  tiieir  little  fingers 
of  two  hands  linked  together,  whilst  they  were 
carrying  small  sprigs  oF  rosemary  in  the  other 
bands.  I  still  rec^lect  that  most  of  the  men 
were  most  anxious  to  have  re<U  rosemary  and  no 
substitute,  as,  for  instance,  box. 

RosemHi^,  which,  by  the  bye,  makes  an  excel- 
lent ingredient  for  a  no  less  excellent  pomatum, 
was  until  lately  always  used  in  this  country  for  a 
Todtenkraia  (aeeth- wreath)  for  any  young  girl 
dying  shortly  before  her  wedding. 

"Tbera's  rosemaiy,  that's  for  ramembtance."  f 

Garlic  (Allium  latieum,  L.)  is  still  believed  to 
possess  anti-witchcraft  properties  in  Germany,  hut 
especially  in  Greece  and  Turkey.  Allium  ne  tdtu 
(eat  no  garlic)  has  become  proverbial,  as  eating 
it — in  the  way  anions  are  used — is  said  to  pro- 
duce quarrelsomeness.  In  ancient  times  it  was 
the  emblem  of  belligerent  life  and  feelings;  but 
it  waa  also  known  as  a  remedy  against  the  charms 
of  Amor  and  Eros,  on  which  account  the  Gieek 
ladies  ate  of  it  and  carried  it  about  them  during 
the  ektrophorite  celebrated  at  Athens  in  honour  of 
Minerva,  Ceres,  and  Proserpine,  when  the  parties 
celebrating  these  festivals  nad  carefully  to  avoid 
any  conjugal  connection  with  men.  I  should 
fancy  that  the  smell  would  keep  the  latter  at  a 
noli-me-tanga-e  distance.  On  account  of  ita  anti- 
witchcraft  properties  it  was  dedicated  to  the  Lares 
at  Home.  HEBiuitN  Kindt. 

Germany.  

Shop  Sioks  di  Vibrsa.— I  observed  aome  eln- 
gular  signs  in  Vienna.  Not  only  were  shops  under 
the  patronage  ot  the  imperial  royal  family,  or 
dedicated  to  popular  favourites,  such  aa  Jenny 
Lind,  but  a  tobacconist's  ehop  I  saw  dedicated  to 
the  "  Salvator  Mundi,"  and  diaplajing  a' very  well 
executed  picture,  I  should  think  eight  feet  high, 
of  the  sacred  personage.  Another,  a  silkmcrcer's 
shop,  was  dedicated  to  the  Holy  Ghost.  Many  of 
the  shops  have  painted  agns,  and  well  done. 

P.  E.  Mabet. 

Thb  Svbkavb  Saracbh,  Sabasin,  ob  Sar- 
BAzn. — This  name  is  said  to  have  been  given  to 
a  Saracenic  family  that  embraced  Christianity 
during  tha  Crusades,  and  settled  in  modem  Eu- 
rope ;   and,  in  corroboration,  Mr.  Lower  eaya— . 

*  Glouary,  Qermau  ed.  (printed  at  Stialsond,  IB3S), 
^\  flinrfrtiActIV.Sc.5.  izeabyCiOtWlC 


4«S.  VII.  March  11, 71.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


f  Sslftdin  waa  sn  EnKlish  Burname  Ump.  £dw.  I. 
H.R."  The  name  has  probablj  notniug  to  do 
with  the  Saracens,  but  msj  be  deriTed  from 
Castel-3ananD,  formerlj  Castel-Stmaim,  a  town 
of  France,  in  Languedoc,  so  called  £rom  its  situ- 
ation on  the  rivulet  Aairt  (tur-Aan).  Coaf. 
Axincooitor  Agincourt,  X>e|i.  Fas  de  Calua. 

R,  S.  Chabkock. 

Gnf'i  Inn. 

Harsbl's  Cobcebto  70B  TSE  'Hasp. — Did  not 
I  Mad  in  "N.  &  Q."  ^at  Mr.  Bnnley  Bicharda 
had  found  a  moAt  raluable  composition  for  the 
harp  in  the  British  MoseumP  At  anv  rate  I 
read  it. in  many  othv  paperE,  and  I  think  i{  well 
to  make  a  note  upon  the  aubjecL  Be  it  known 
Tmto  all  men  (with  your  permission,  Mr.  Editor) 
that  the  (NDncerto  in  question  haa  been  familiar  to 
Handel  students  neatly  ever  once  its  composer 
came  to  England  i  indeed  it  is  one  of  thiMe  popu' 
Ia<  piecea  which -have  kept  play  en  upon  keyed 
inatcoments  from  Btatring  (according  to  some  his- 
torians) almost  tern  Handel's  day  until  this. 
"When  I  Bay  that  it  is  nothing  more  nor  less  than 
the  with  of  tho  first  set  of  organ  concertoes  p»lb- 
lished  by  Walsh,  your  musical  readers  may  well 
'wondar  that  anything  so  familiar  could  l>e  dis- 
covered now.  Dr.  Arnold,  too,  published  it  in 
score  (as  Mr.  Richards  has  just  done  at  great 
«TpeQse),  and  there  have  baen  editions  of  it 
-without  end — some  good,  some  bad,  some  indif- 
ferent. In  Dr.  Arnold's  copy  it  is  amd  to  be  per 
harpa  e  organo ;  so  there  can  be  no  pretence  of 
bringing  forward  a  new  vernon  of  an  old  work 
even,  W.  J.  Wbstbeook. 

SjdcDham. 

Jjk  BurrkRE  ajtd  teb  Booksellbb's  D&hsh- 
TBB. — In  looking  over  tho'rZj/fl  of  La  Bruyire,  the 
banslalor  of  the  Charactert  of  Theophrastns  and 
antboT  of  the  Mteurt  de  ce  Siicle,  1  met  with  the 
following  anecdote  of  that  interesting  literary 
laan.    It  may  nut  be  unsuitable  for  "N.  &  Q." : — 

"  La  Bray^re  ued  tic  freqacnt  the  shop  of  a  bookseller 
named  Uicb^et,  where  he  unttsed  bimself  with  reading 
the  Dew  pampUeta,  and  playing  with  the  hookaelle^ 
(UnKhUr,  an  en^tagiog  child  of  wham  he  was  verf  fond. 
One  day,  taking  the  roaonscript  of  his  Chr — ' —  — * 
ot  his  pocket,  ha  offend  it  to  Hiche" 
yon  print  this  ?     I  know  not  whether 


[ithailet.  Baring, '  Will 

. iheryOB  will  gain  aoy- 

bylt,bnti  should  it  succeed,  let  the  proSu  make 


Mag  by  it.       . 

tba  Scnny  of  my  little  Mend  here.'  The  bookwllei, 
tboojb  doubtfol  with  ropect  to  the  reaolt,  rentoied  on 
the  publJeatioD :  the  firat  ImprMdoa  was  eoon  sold  off, 
serwil  editions  were  afterwards  sold,  and  the  profits  on 
Ibe  woi^  amoaatcd  to  a  large  lam ;  and  with  thia  fbr- 
toncHisaHicliaUet  wai  ifterwards  adroatageoiuly  mar- 
jied." 

Fbascis  Tbbbch. 
lalip  Beeiory. 

BaLLOOHS  iSD  THX  SlBOE  OF  FaBIS. — 
"  It  may  be  worth  while  to  mention,  before  tbe  fact  _ 
fiirgoUeo,  that  fijly-fbm  aerial  engines  were  despatched 
frbm  nvn  daring  the  si^e^  and  carried  altogether  about 


2,500,000  letters,  making  a  total  i 

tons.    The  first  balloon,  the  Neptnni ,  ..__ 

SSrd  of  Septmiberi  the  Armand  Barb^  which  started 
on  the  Tth  of  Oct^Aer,  took  oat  Gambetta  and  tbe  firat 
fiook  of  carrier  pigeons;  the  Jules  Favre,  which  went 
away  on  the  SOtb  of  Naveotber,  has  never  been  heard  of 
Ednce,  end  is  sappoeed  to  have  been  lost  at  sea;  the  last 
of  all,  G^n^al  Cambronne,  was  sent  op  on  the  20th  of 

-  The  above  ia  &om  a  correspondent's  letter  in 
the  Daih/  Telegraph,  written  in  Paris  on  Feb.  17, 


Thx  Ph<bnix  Pabx. — There  is  a  curious  mmi- 
larity  of  ai^flcaliaD  in  the  French  Foutmnebleaa 
and  the  Irish  Phceniz  Park.  The  former,  it  ia 
well  known,  Mgnifies  "  spring  of  fwr  water,"  and 
the  true  and  proper  Irish  name  of  the  latter  ia 
Fionn  Uisge,  tnat  is  "  fair  water,"  to  which  if  we 
prefix  fo&ar,  that  ia  "  sprinK,"  which  I  am  almost 
certain  was  the  case,  the  identity  of  the  name  is 
perfect. 

The  chanKe  of  Fionn  Uisge  to  Phmnix  wq^  Ij 
believe,  made  by  the  celebrated  Earl  of  Che^^- 
field  when  lord-lieutenant  To  commemorate 
this  intellectnol  feat  he  rused,  not  very  far  from 
the  spring,  the  column  still  exiaong  with  a  pbcenix 

1  its  summit.  Taos.  Ebjqhtley. 

Ahbcdotb  or  Db,  JoHiraoii.  —  The  following 
anecdote  of  the  lexicographic  moralist  used  to  m 
told  by  a  well-known  lawyer  and  bati-vivant  of 
Edinburgh,  who  died  from  thirty-five  to  forty 

Sears  Sffo.  The  Doctor,  tiding  along  the  road 
uring  nia  Scottish  tour,  f^ed  the  way  of  a  country 
lad  who  was  running  with  swollen  cheeks  and 
reddened  complexion.  Receiving  no  answer,  ha 
came  down  on  the  lad's  shoulders  smartly  with 
his  riding-whip.  The  cheeks  follapsed,  and  a 
white  fluid  spurted  forth,  when  Johnson  was  thus 
accosted : — '"  Oh,  sir,  what  hae  ye  dune  F  an'  me 
rinuin'  seeven  mile  wi'  a  mootbfu'  o'  milk  to  a 
sick  wean  I  "  This  atcry  I  have  never  seen  in 
print.  W.  T.  M. 

Ballads  nr  Ladi  Mabt  Wobtley  MoNTAen 
AHD  Loan  Chkstekfield. — Perhaps  one  of  the 
most  remarkable  cases  was  that  attributing  to  Lady 
Mary  Wortley  Montagu  tbe  ballad  on  Arthur 
Gray,  which  made  not  only  Mrs.  Murray,  its 
victim,  but  also  her  friend  Lady  Bervey,  forswear 
her  ladyship's  acquaintance.  I^y  Mary  acknow- 
ledged the  sufficiently  annoying  ode  of  the  erotic 
footman  to  his  mistress,  which  the  noble  editor  of 
her  works  has  lately  included  amongst  them,  with 
perhaps  slightly  queationable  taate.  The  hallad 
IS  siud  to  have  been  a  much  more  acandalons 
aSeJr,  and  was  not  acknowledged. 

This  ballad  took,  because  Gray  the  footman  woa 
for  many  days  imder  sentence  of  death  in  New- 
gate. The  court  hod  jnst  reprieved  a  brutal 
GMman  doctor  for  a  much  more  horrid  crime 


NOTES   AND   QUERIES.  [4'»S.TII.  March  1I,-71. 


wliicli  he  accomplished,  and  hj  the  entreaties  of 
the  amiable  familj  aggrisTed  the  other  silly  fellow 
was  let  off  for  his  Insane  conduct.  Gray  wu  sent 
to  the  North  American  settlcnients.  much  aa  the 
Irish  prisonera  were  lately  sent  to  New  York,  but 
uotbiDgseemB  to  be  known  of  hia  future  existence.* 
Lord  Chesterfield  wrote  a  ballad  on  the  order 
of  the  Bath,  which  was  a^d  to  be  equally  witty 
and  satirical,  and  to  which  Ms  fall  was  attributed 
when  a  change  of  niiniatry  was  made  about  the 
time.  It  was  perhaps  the  match  which  set  the 
powder  on  fire,  but  there  was  probably  a  m^azi 
of  expUwive  materials  somewhere. 


fi.C. 


€tutxis*, 

Bbll-Habp. — What  kind  of  inatrument  i 

bell-harp,  which  used  to  be  played  upon 

.  eulv  part  of  last  century  f   Perhaps  some  musical 

reacCer  will  he  able  to  answer  this  query  in  an  early 

number.  L.  J. 

.    .  winginB  it  a 

ii9.  It  is  aboDt  three  feet  louK  ,  . . 
■trings,  which  are  or  no  determinate  number,  an  of  brasa 
or  atrcl  wire,  fiied  at  one  end,  and  stretched  across  the 
aouod-board  by  screws  fixed  at  the  other.  It  takes  in 
4aur  oclaTei,  according  to  the  number  of  the  atringi, 
which  ai-e  atmck  only  with  the  thanibs,  the  light  hand 
playing  tbe  treble,  and  the  left  hand  the  bau  {  and,  in 
order  to  draw  the  lound  the  clearer,  Che  thumbs  are 
anned  with  a  littie  wirepin.  There  is  aneagraving  of  it 
lu  Tilt  London  Encj/chpadia,  xi.  50.] 

BEzaHT  ARD  Flokik.  —  In  documents  of  the 
Middle  Ases  frequent  mention  is  made  of  golden 
florins  and  bezants.  What  was  the  value  of  these 
coins  ?  Where  were  they  struck,  and  were  they 
in  general  circulation,  or  only  used  fur  calculating 
the  Talue  of  money  P  A,  E,  L. 

[Gold  florins  were  first  stmck  bj  Edward  III.  la  1344  : 
the  half  and  quarter  florin  wen  strnck  at  the  same  time. 
The  florin  was  then  to  go  for  six  shillings,  thoagh  now  it 
would  be  iDtriDsieall}'  worth  nineteen.  In  the  year  1327 
that  prince  had  preTiottsly  purchased  174  florins  from 
Florence,  the  price  of  each  being  39irf.  "  X.  &  Q,,"  1" 
S.  i.  119. 

Bezant,  or  Bezant,  was  a  coin  of  pare  gold,  stmck  at 
Byzantium  in  the  time  of  tl^e  Christian  emperoia;  and 
hence  the  gold  offered  bj  our  kings  on  festivals  is  called 
haant.  It  seems  to  bare  been  carrcnt  in  England  from 
the  tenth  ccnluiy  till  tbe  time  of  Edward  [II.  I Ls  value 
is  not  preciset}-  ascertained,  bat  it  is  generally  estimated 
at  9].  4}if.  sterling.  Tbe  origin  and  use  of  bezants  are 
pointed  out  by  Camden,  Rtatana,  aiL  "  Money."  Consult 
also  "  N.  &  Q,"  2"*  8.  v.  268.] 


[•    The  Epistle  from  Arthar  Gray,   the  tool 
Mrs.  Murray,  afler  his  condemnation  for  attem 

'iolence,  is  also  printed  Id  Tht  Letlen  mil  H 


nn.    See  S^tet  Triali,  l!mo,  1T43.— Eu.] 


governor  of  Cuba,  who  sent  home  Columbus  in 
chains,  was  "  Bobadilla  "  ?  Ben's  "  Bobadil "  is  a 
most  aereeable  braggadocio,  and  in  this  respect 
very  diuerent  from  the  sullen  ruffian  who  disgraced 
the  Spanish  name  by  his  atrocious  cmduct  to  the 
great  navigator  and  discoverer.  O.  E. 

[Gifford'a  Doto  on  this  cowi 


been  veil  under- 

alwaya  too  highly  estimated ; 

boaster  and  a  coward,  he  is   cnnorilr 


because  he  ii 

diimiued  as  a  mere  cop?  of  the  ancient  bully,  or  wha  . . 
more  lidicnlous,  of  Pistol ;  but  Bobadil  is  a  creature  wi 
Senerii,  and  perfectl?  orlslnal.  Tbe  soldier  of  the  Greek 
comedr,  fnm  whom  Whdlej  wishea  to  derive  him,  had 
not  many  traits  In  common  with  Bobadil.  .  .  .  Bobadil 
Is  stained  with  no  inordinate  vice,  and  is  beside*  lo 
frugal,  that  *  a  bunch  of  radishes  and  a  pipe  to  close  tbe 
orifice  of  his  stomach,'  satisfy  all  his  wants.  Add  to  this 
that  the  vanity  of  the  ancient  soldier  [in  the  Greek 
comedv]  is  accompanied  with  such  deplorable  stupidity, 
that  all  temptation  to  mirth  is  taken  away ;  whereas 
Bobadil  is  Kally  amusing.  His  gravity,  which  is  of  the 
most  inflexible  natnrs,  contrasts  admirably  with  the 
sitnationB  into  which  he  is  thrown ;  and  though  beatiso, 
baffled,  *and  disgraced,  he  never  so  far  forgets  himself  aa 
to  aid  in  his  own  discomlitore.  He  has  no  soliloquies 
like  Beasus  and  Parollaii,  to  betray  his  real  character,  and 
expose  himself  to  unneeessary  contempt.  ...  In  a  word, 
Bobadil  has  many  distinguishing  traits,  and  till  a  pre- 
ceding braggart  shall  be  discovered  with  something  more 
than  big  words  and  beating  lo  characterise  him,  it  may 
not  be  amiaa  to  allow  JoDSon  the  credit  of  having  de- 
pended entirelv  on  his  own  leaouieea." — Jonsan's  fririi, 
by  Giflford,  ed.'  1816, 1. 160.] 

Chadcbr's  "  Shiphah." — What  is  the  meaning 
of  the  line  (_Prohff«e,  400)  ?— 

"  By  water  he  sente  hem  boom  to  every  land." 

Professor  Morley  puzzles  me  by  paraphrasing- 
{English  Writers,  ii.  208),  "  he  sent  home  hit  trcM 
by  water  to  every  land."  I  have  sometimes  been 
inclined  to  think  that  the  line  meemt  "  be  made 
the  vanquished  walk  the  plutk  " ;  but  I  doubt  if 
Chaucer  s  typical  sailor  was  given  to  such  piratical 
habits.  Probably  to  many  people  there  is  no  dif- 
ficulty in  the  passage.  Will  one  of  those  "write 
me  down  an  ass  "  F  Johk  Addis. 

Bustington,  near  Llttlehampton,  Sussex. 

DouESSAT.  —  Among  the  various  books  and 
papers  which  have  been  written  upon  Domesday, 
IB  th^e  to  be  found  any  attempt  to  trace  how 
many  persona  recorded  there  as  holders  of  land 
have  representativea  in  the  present  day  F    D.  A. 

Eholish  QiTEBir  bubibd  at  Poeto  Fino. — 
The  inhabitants  of  Porto  ¥1no  (a  village  lying  at 
the  foot  of  the  headland  of  the  same  name  in  the 
Gulf  of  Genoa)  have  a  tradition  that  an  English 
queen  was  once  buried  there.  What  are  tbe  pro- 
bable historical  grounds  for  this  belief  P  ^  ^^    , 


4*  a  TII.  MAIiCH 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


"Et  facbbe  Scribbsda." — By  whom,  and  of 
whom,  has  it  been  Btdd  that  he  vaa  competent  "  et 
faceie  scribenda,  et  acribere  legeoda  "  P  B. 

Ballad  of  Lady  Fbbsebs.  —  Is  there  any 
foniidatioii  in  truth  for  the  ballad  of  "  I^ady 
Forrera  of  MBrk^at«  CeU"P  It  professes  to  be 
founded  on  tndition  and  fact,  and  sajs  that 
"  the  exiatEDce  of  the  beraloe,  her  stngnlar  liabiU  and 
daring  character,  the  alternate  lecluaian  and  Bplendaiir  of 
her  life,  leather  with  its  mysterioai  cloae,  form  a  detail 
Etill  remembered  in  Hertford  shire,  at  the  hamlet  which 
^vee  Ulle  to  the  legend." 

The  stoij  ia,  that  she  entertained  her  friends  by 
day  and  irent  out  mafauding  at  night,  clothed 
in  armour,  plundering  and  elajing  all  the  travel- 
leia  aha  could  lay  her  handa  upon.  She  waa  in 
the  habit  of  locldnr  the  serranta  in  their  rooms  at 
night  aod  letting  uiem  out  in  the  morning;  hut 
one  day  no  doors  were  opened.  A  groom  in  deapur 
ftt  last  breaking  through  one,  they  discovered  that 
the  lady'a  bed  was  empty,  and  at  last  they  found 
her,  in  full  armour,  dead  on  the  turret  stairs.  She 
had  been  Idlled  by  an  accidental  fall  on  her  road 
out.  An  asaaann's  dirk  was  found  securely  fastened 
in  her  girdle.  The  date  of  the  ballad  ia  1811. 
Maboarbt  Gattt. 

Qbbat  Mas  allpded  to  nr  Awjold  iw  i 
Skbkoh. — Who  ia  mpposed  to  be  alluded  to  in 
the  following  ?  — 

"  Ont  of  the  grtaliMt  mm  of  oat  limt  has  declared  that, 
■n  the  early  part  of  bis  life,  he  did  not  believe  in  the 

DiTlnity  of  our  I*ord while,  ia  hie  latter  life,  ho 

(tabraced  it  with  all  his  Iteart  and  aouL" — Dr.  Arnold's 
Stniaa,  V.  401. 

J.B.B. 

fTbe  reference  li  wrong ;  there  ie  little  doubt  tiist  the 
aUurioD  WM  to  S.  T.  Coleridge.    What  ia  the  text  of  the 

IirDDSTBiES  OF  ENGiJjn). — Doea  there  exist  a 
work  daecriptiTe  of  th«  industries  of  England, 
idmilar  to  the  one  publiahed  early  in  1869  on  the 
InAulriet  of  Scotland  by  D.  Bremner  ? 

B.T.  J. 

Jestebs  on  SHiPBOiBD. — 'Wero  commanders 
in  the  navy  formerly  in  the  habit  of  keeping  a 
fool  or  jeater  aboard  ship;  and  if  flo,  when  was 
the  practice  abandoned  P  Here  is  one  inatance, 
.  from  the  narrative  of  Kichard  Seller,  a  fisbermaii, 
preeaed  into  the  aervice  in  1665 ; 


ropea,  thn'  lowered  me  half-way  down,  then  made  me  tult 
again :  ■  Nov,'  eald  the  jeater,  •  noble  captain,  tou  and 
the  company  eee  that  the  Quaker  haletb  the  king's  ropes.' 
1  _j  _i.u  (J^(  iig  comnumded  them  to  '  let  fly  the  ropes 
'-"id  the  jester. 


any 


It  the  c( 


with  h 


d  told  tt! 


I '  He  wonld  lay  a  guii—  . 

muu  me  work,  and  hale  the  king's  ropes';  and  told  .uo 
captain  'he  was  a  fool':  so  two  gnineas  were  thrown 
down  apoD  the  deck ;  then  the  jester  called  for  two  sea- 
men, and  made  them  make  two  ropes  fast  to  the  wrists  of 
my  anna,  and  reeved  the  ropes  through  two  blocks  in 
tlie  miien-ehroods,  on  the  starboard  ride,  and  hoised  me 
np  aloft,  and  made  the  ropes  fast  to  the  gunnel  of  the 
^ip,  and  I  hang  some  time;  then  the  jester  called  the 
ship's  companv  to  '  behold,  and  bear  blm  witness,  that  he 
made  the  Quaker  bale  the  king's  ropes' ;  so  veering  the 


imanded  them 
loose,'  when  I  fell  upon  the  deck.   '  Now,'  laii 
'noble  captain,  the  wager  ia  woo:  be  haled  the" 
to  the  decti,  and  von  can  hale  them  no  farther, 
man  ^ee."'—Safferingt  o/lht  QuoJien,  by  Joeei 
London,  17{i3,  ii.  113, 

Thob.  Stewarbsoh,  Juir, 
Judicial  Oaths,— Has  it  ever  been  noticed  for 
the  cousideratioD  of  that  class  who  object  to 
taking  oaths  in  courts  of  justice,  because  it  ia 
forbid  in  the  Bible  under  the  injunction  "Swear 
not  at  all,"  that  there  ia  another  injunction  in  the 
Bible,  in  equally  imperative  language,  which  they 
entirely  disregard — "Call  no  man  father  upon  the 
earth"  (Matt,  xaiii.  G)  P  If  any  of  your  readers 
are  of  the  class  I  have  mentioned,  it  would  he 
satiafactory  to  know  from  him  why  it  is  that  the 
one  command  is  so  rigidlj  construed,  white  the 
other  is  wholly  disobeyed  f  Q, 

Edinhnrgh. 

MoOB  Pabk. — Are  there  extant  any  early  en- 
gravings of  Moor  Park,  or  More  Lodge,  in  Hert- 
fordahire,  as  it  existed  in  the  time  of  James  L  or 
Charles  I.,  or  any  account  of  the  beautiAil  war- 
dens, other  than  that  given  bj  Sir  William 
Temple  P  M.  P. 

MoBTJXBB,  Eabl  op  Mabch. — In  the  Harleian 
MSS.,  Mortimer,  Earl  of  March,  who  married  the 


both  earldoms,  and  Edward,  from  whom  is  traced 
therein  a  long  line.  Sir  B.  Burke,  in  hia  £j.-iincl 
Baronia,  doea  not  mention  Edward  the  second 
son.  Can  any  one  give  ma  information  on  thia 
matter,  or  where  to  look  further  for  such  P 

J.  A. 

MotmniNo  OB  Blaczesseii  WEirma  Papkb. 
I  have  lately  been  endeavouring  to  find  out  when 
the  use  of  mourning  stationery  came  into  use  in 
England,  and  was  under  the  impression  that  I 
should  find  some  information  on  the  subject  in 
these  pages.  Having,  however,  searched  the  pre- 
ceding volumes  without  success,  I  auhjoin  a  few 
oonjecttues  of  my  own. 

When  did  blackedged  writing  paper  come  into 
use  P  I  believe  that  the  large  4to  writing  paper, 
capable  of  being  folded  so  as  to  form  a  cover,  waa 
in  common  use  in  England  until  1840,  when,  the 
weight  of  a  letter  carried  for  one  penny  being 
restricted  to  half  an  ounce,  the  4to  Idier  papei 
was  gradually  superseded  by  the  8vo  note  paper. 
The  8vo  note  paper  had,  however,  this  ois- 
ntagO'-it  could  not  be  folded  so  ea  to  ensure 
secrecy :  a  cover  therefore  becsme  a  necesdty. 
Our  ever- inventive  neighbours — the  French — sent 
us  the  thing  we  wanted,  and  made  us  a  preseq^of 
the  name  enveloppe.    The  use  of  blackedged  note,  (^ 


210 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.         ho-s-tilmabcbH.?!. 


paper  and  envelopes  (for  wa  have  declined  to  nae 
the  Mcond  p)  would  therefore  seem  to  hare  aiisea 
after  1840.  But  how  came  black  to  creep  on  the 
margin  of  writing  paper  P  Perhaps  thus :  I  Bup- 
poae  it  to  have  been  cufitomary  long  before  1840 
for  nndertakars,  oa  the  occasion  of  a  funeral,  to 
send  oat  batbanda  and  gloTes  to  mnurnera  in  a 
gigantic  eUTelope  which  wati  blackedged.  Thence, 
I  presume,  the  smaller  envelopes  for  notea  re- 
ceited  a  black  edge,  which  at  last  crept  in^de, 
vhere  now  we  are  aometimes  alarmed  to  eee  it 
obtruding  from  one'dxteeutb  to  three-qnatter*  of 
•n  inch  idl  round  the  surface  of  a  small  sheet  of 

ni«r  1  But  waa  there  no  blackedged  letterpaper 
ore  1840  ofthe4to  die  P  lam  not  aware  that 
tkerewas.  I  believe  that  no  ancient  blackedged 
Utter  paper  is  known  in  the  British  Unseum.  I 
have  roTself  several  old  letters  in  4to  with  deli- 
cate ^It  tdget,  but  none  with  the  hideo>u  black 
margins  of  the  present  day. 

I  suppose  that  black  sealing  wax  is  A3  old  aa 
ttie  led  wax ;  and  black  wax  was,  I  ima^e,  the 
Milieet  and  only  token  of  moumiDg  em^oyed  in 
kttar-writing,  datiDg  peih^w  from  1653. 

I  shall  be  glad,  however,  to  be  aet  right  by 
•ome  of  yout  venerabla  and  hoDoored  correspon- 
danta  if,  is  the  above  otatement,  my  inexperience 
hw  led  me  into  error.  W.  H.  S. 

Urs.  Ook. — Who  WHS  Urs.  Oom  F  She  waa  a 
lady  interested  in  music,  evidently,  for  her  name 
figures  upon  a  sonata  for  pianoforte  by  the  lata 
Samuel  Wesley  ^wbich  is  chiefly  made  up  of 
fiigue  upon  a  subject  by  Salomau ;  so  that  she 
must  have  had  a  taste  for  the  abstruse),  and  again 
upon  a  sonata  by  Woelfl.  I  think  I  have  seen 
her  name  upon  other  title-pages,  but  I  cannot 
remember  what  they  were.    W,  J,  Wssibbook. 

Paslbt  or  Faslbwe. — In  the  decayed  diocesan 
letmna  or  manoscripts  of  the  remstera  of  Huyton, 
near  Knowaley,  is  an  entry,  I  think,  of  a  burial : 
"  1639,  Henriette  Haria  .  .  .  Christopher  Paaley 
.  .  .  .  et  h.  of  Tarbock."  I  am  desirous  of  know- 
ing what  family  this  Pasley  belonged  to,  in  order 
toleam  its  connecUon  with  the  Taibocka  of  Tar- 
bock, near  Huyton.  The  last  abbot  of  WbiUey 
was,  I  believe,  a  I^lewe;  and  in  1567,  "EUz'' 
flL  Xfer.  Nowell,"  of  Little  Hereley,  Co.  Lan- 
caster, Oent,  was  married  to  Thomas  Pawalowe, 
or  Paslewe,  of  Winswel),  co.  Lancaster,  Qeat. 
It  is  not  improbable,  aotwithatanding  the  difier- 
ence  in  spelling,  that  the  iasue  of  this  marriage 
waa  the  above-named  Christopher  Pasley,  who, 
no  doubt,  married  a  Tarbock,  Stanley,  or  Afolv- 
neux.  There  was  Uenriette  Maria  Stanley  (daugh- 
ter of  James,  seventh  Earl  of  Berby),  who  waa 
married  to  Viscount  Molvneui,  and  secondly  to 
Wa.  Wentworth,  Earl  of  Strafford ;  but  she  waa 
bom  in  163(^  and  died  in  1085.  T.  Hxlbst. 


PoBcBLiiN  QuEET, — What  English  china  waa 
marked  >p  j  in  a  rather  antiquated  style  F 
Uy  specimens  ore  in  imitation  of  Oriental. 

J.C.J. 

PsAui  TTiiT — Who  is  the  author  of  a  veruon 
beginning — 

"  The  Lord  is  my  Shepherd,  ne  wsnt  ibiU  be  mine; 

In  pulnrea  of  verdura  he  maku  ma  Tedine  "  7 
Can  any  of  yoor  cortespondenta  supplr  the 
remunder  of  the  psalm  P  J.  C.  Rdbt. 

[Jam«i  Hontgomsiy  u  the  anther  «f  a  paafan  com- 

"Ths  Lord  la  my  Sbeph^  no  mot  ahill  Ikaoir; 
I  leed  ia  green  puturta,  eafe-rolded  I  resL" 
— 7%<  CkTvUaiiFidmUt,  ed.  182S,  p.  U.] 

Shaxxspxasx's  "  ScUfEU." — Tn  the  Dramatie 
SmtUr  for  1863  (T.  H.  Ucy)  I  find  at  p.  35  thft 
following  statement  >— 

1  Seamdi,  wkidi  word  hai  oooailoned  le  mndi  irortli- 
leM  dtteoRioii,  It  appean  ii  tbe  common  name  for  limpeta 
ia  Corawall  ai  nell  as  in  IreUnd." 

This  information  is  said  to  be  taken  from  ao 
annotated  copy  of  Th»  Tempett.  May  I  ask  if 
this  atatement  can  be  eorroborated  ea  to  the  pro- 
vincial use  of  "  aeamela  "P — as  of  course  tbe  diffi'- 
culty  is  thus  cleared  up.  A  Foreionxb. 

Thb  Suit  hxvicr  sets  os  the  Bbttish  Do- 
mKJOira. — Who  was  the  author  of  the  now  hack* 
neyed  sayingtbatthe  sun  never  seta  on  the  British 
dominionsP  Did  he  borrowthe  idea&omEutiliua^ 
who  says  of  Rome  (i.  63) — 

"Obraerint  citiiis  ealeiati  oblivia  aolem 

QuaiD  taiu  ex  nasCro  corde  recedit  honos. 
Nam  aolis  radiii  sqaalia  maaen  tuidii% 

Qua  circamrxsos  fluctaat  Oouniu. 
Tolvitur  ipM  ttbi,  qui  contlnct  omnia,  Phmbiu, 
£qne  tnu  ortoa  in  tiu>  condit  equoi." 

[Sfle"N.4Q."4a'8.u.685.] 

I  Sn^FOLK.  —  In  a  village  ii 


Suffolk  resides  a 


young] 


id  who  b  afflicted  with 


a  glandular  swelling,  at  times  very  punfiiL  In 
May  laet  bis  mother  caught  a  toad,  and  in  the 
presence  of  the  lad  sewed  it  up  alive  in  a  bag, 
which  she  hung  on  the  wall  of  the  room  of 
the  cottage  in  which  she  lived.  Tbe  idea  prevail- 
ing in  the  woman's  mind  is  that  when  the  toad 
shall  have  crumbled  to  dust,  her  child's  gland nlar  ■ 
swelling  will  be  stanched  and  will  die  away,  la 
this  a  common  superstition  P        Hic  et  DBidtTB. 

7,  Laacoater  Gate,  W. 

VooDORisiL— What  ia  VoodonismP  From  a 
note  in  the  Londm  ^aro  ot  Jan.  28, 1871,  it  ap- 
pears  to  be  an  American  invention.  Is  the  whola 
account  a  canard  ?  It  is,  however,  stated  in  the 
above  paper  that  a  man  named — 
"Job.  Able  made  a  contract  with  the  Devil  to  pntainika 
into  the  leg  of  one  Samael  Paine,  ea  enemy  of  his 
.  .  ,  .  Tlieaaake  waa  captured  and  hang  up  to  dry;  his 


f  a.  Tii.  uiLKM  u,  11.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


211 


ureue  wai  then  ledoced  to  powdir,  and  Btmm  In  ths 
pith  of  Ibe  doomed  man.  Wbea  he  >trpp*d  opon  tbi* 
mjttedimt  dolt,  ha  diMloetl^  felt  the  Rrprat  enter  his 
I^.  Hi»  wife,  however,  applied  poultice*,  4c«  and  ei- 
tractM)  the  toake,  which  wat  a  foot  loog,  and  qaite 
li»ely." 

This  of  coune  reada  like  a  hoax,  but  what  ia 
the  oiigiD-of  the  term  Voodonbm  ? 

Javbs  Bbittek. 

Tbb  White  TowBB  op  Lohdoh. — Queries  upon 
pp.  19,  25,  SO,  41,  97,  98,  and  104  of  Mr.  O.  T. 
CHark's  "  Particulara  coDceminK  the  Militaiy 
Arehitectuie  of  the  Tower  of  London  "  (0«  Lon- 
dart,  Paper  II.  pp.  16  to  139)  published  bj  Mur- 
ray, 1867  :— 

1.  Is  it  probable  that  WilUam  the  Conqueror 
overawed  London,  for  twelve  or  fourteen  jeara, 
with  a  fortreaa  consiatiDg  of  a  deep  ditch  and 
etrong  palisade  only  (p.  19),  and  that  he  required 
•ome  years'  expeneDce  of  the  value  of  the  site 
before  he  could  deteimiDe  to  erect  a  regular  caatle 
<p.fl7)P 

2.  Could  the  White  Tower  of  Loudon,  with 
twen^-four  feet  of  foundaliou  towaida  the  river, 
and  walla  from  twelve  feet  to  Gfteeu  feet  thick 
(p.  25),  reaaouably  be  said  to  have  been  executed 
in  haste  (p.  41)  f 

5.  Could  the  White  Tower  have  beeo  built'  by 
&  Normal)  architect  oa  t  rcfu^  for  royalty  without 
&  well,  without  proper  conveniences,  ana  without 
any  trace  of  the  usual  N'onnan  chevroa  or  lig-zag 
oraameut  (p.  39)  P 

4.  la  there  anything  in  Texlm  JRoffenai  to  ahow 
that  Gundulph  built  the  White  Tower  (p.  08)  P 

6.  Did  the  Normans  build  with  "  mortar  tem- 
pered with  the  blood  of  beasts"  (Fttiatephen, 
quoted  p.  104),  or,  in  plain  Eogliah,  did  the  Nor- 
mans pound  red  bricks  to  mix  with  their  mortar  P 

Conaidering-  that  the  hiatorical  evetita  of  the 
Conqueror's  reign  warrant  only  a  conduaon  that 
the  funner  buildings  of  the  Romans,  the  Anglo- 
Saxons,  of  Alfred,  and  of  Edward  the  Elder,  were 
hastily  repaired  or  fortified  by  the  Normans,  and 
considering  that  the  Tower  of  London  in  parti- 
cular was  hastily  prepared  for  the  Conqueror's 
receptioti  in  the  snort  space  of  six  weeks,  is  it  not, 
on  the  whol&  more  in  accordance  with  probobi- 
lihr  (iudependent  of  other  considerotioDs)  that  the 
White  Tower  so  called  was,  aa  Stukel^  showed 
it,  a  Bomon  work,*  which  the  keen  glance  of  the 
Conqueror  detected  the  value  of,  and  forthwith 
adapted  to  bia  own  useP  Bouak. 


*  At  p.  2!  Hr.  CUA  deicribes  ft  ai  the  Wbits  or 
CBMT'a  Tower,  and  in  the  same  volume  Ur.  Bartt,  in  an 
•rtiela  tntiltrd  "PaUic  Record  Office"  (Paper  iv. 
p.  ilT),  baa  quoted  Sbakipeare  (Richard  III.,  Act  III. 
8c  1}  an  the  Roman  origia  or  the  Wbite  Tower.  It 
•wnot  yet  bo  ftrgolten  Hut  Canute  ordered  Edric  to  be 
eeu^ted.and  bb  bead  pliced  on  the  Tower  of  London, 
woioh  wait  when  the  tide  rose,  washed  by  the  Tbamo. 


Why  does  a  kewlt-bobx  Chud  cetP— 
David  Copper6eld  was  bom  at  midniicht  on  a 
Friday,  and  "  it  was  remarked  that  the  clock 
began  to  strike  and  he  to  cry  dmullaneouriy." 
Lucretius  (v.  227)  gives  the  epicurean  reason  ia 
his  beautiful  lines  on  infancy : —  - 

"  Yagitaqne  loonm  logubri  eomplet,  nt  aqnom  est, 
Qdu  tanlom  in  vita  reatet  tranaite  maloniia." 

Angiistine  aaya  (reference,  alas  !  lost) — 

"  Poterat  riilere  pioi  poer  qui  nucitor,  qui^e  ■  flela 
indpit  virere  P  riders  nondnm  Dorit,  quaie  plorare  jam 
DOTlt  I  quia  otepit  ire  in  iitam  vltam. 

By  way  of  showing  Augustine's  familiarity  with 
norseiy  lore,  it  ia  worth  while  quoting  from  him 
(Confeit,  i.  0),  when  an  infant  first  smiles:— "Post 
et  riaere  ccepi,  dormiens  primo,  delude  vif^lana." 
There  is  a  beautiful  poem  on  this  idea  celled 
"  The  First  Smile,"  in  Keble'a  Zs/ra  Ituiocentium, 
of  which,  however,  only  the  first  stanza  is  his. 

pAuaniB. 


Xtcplittf. 
"ERASER'S  MAGAZINE"!  "QALLERT 
OF  ILLUSTRIOUS  LITERART  CHARACTERS." 
(4'"  S.  vil.  31.) 
The  list  furnished  by  J.  F.  M.  of  the  remark- 
able    gallery  of  portrdta  which,   for  the   first 
brilliant  decade  of  her  existence,  formed  so  dis- 
tinctive a  characteristic  of  "  Itegina,"  is  ao  nearly 
comjilete,  that  were  it  not  for  ue  opportuni^  of 
Betting  it  forth  in  chronological  order  from  a  copy 
before  me,  and  appending  a  few  notes  that  may 
not  be  devoid  of  interest,  it  might  well  be  allowed 
to  remain  without  alteration  or  addition. 

The  first  number  of  F^ater't  Magatine  appeared 
on  Feb.  1. 1830:  the  "  Oallerr  "  "as  commenced  in 
the  number  for  June  following,  with  tfae  itSmXw 
of  William  Jerdao,  aocomponied  by  a  ^wui  bio- 
^phico-critical  sketch,  woich,  we  ore  informed, 
IS  ''written  in  oui  moat  elaborate  style."  From 
this  period  to  Dec.  1836,  no  month  failed  to  bring 
forth  its  portrait  and  its  illustrative  page  of  letter- 
preas.  A  gap  then  occurred.  An  attempt  to 
resume  the  series  wu  mode  in  1S38 ;  but  some- 
bow  the  old  apirit  waa  gone,  and  the  aeries  was 
closed  in  the  month  of  April  by  the  portly  form 
*  Sydney  Smith,  of  merry  and  reverend  memory. 
Tne  followins  liat  will  be  fotind  to  present  tha 
entire  aeries  in  due  chronological  sequence : — 
oLa.  1830. 

I.  Jnn*.  William  Jerdan. 

July.  Thomai  CampbeD. 

II.  August.  J.  G.  Lockhait 
September.  Samuel  Rogers. ', 
October.  Thomai  Uoore. 
NoTtmber.    Sir  Walter  Scott. 


December.    John  Gah. 


January.      William  Maglnn,  ■*  Tba  I>oc(ftr.' 


i2i«lt' 


212 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.         [**  s.  vii.  Mabco  ii,  71. 


Jnat  at  this  period  (to  digresa  for  a  moment)  a 
poem,  "Id  Laudem  Rennte,"  appeared  from  the 
pen  of  the  late  F.  W.  N.  Bayiey.  Although  of 
no  Bpedal  merit,  I  shall  transcribe  &  couple  of 
stanzas  deecriptiTe  of  tho  portraits  which  had 
alreadj  appeared :  — 

"  With  portraiM  of  ow  learned  mm 


It  makca  the  world  u 

_. Irphizzes  i 

!■  next  to  bdnE  uinted  I 


enollej 


To  Me  their  phizzee  {tenallel  there 


JtrdcM  wm  drawn  aa  Jerdan  ia 


To  bis  northern  watch-di 


loBc^ing. 


And  Bagtrt  lookS  ■*  much  amaisd 
Aa  one  could  well  dedre, 
«  Lociiart,  the  comet  of  the  North, 
Hia  brown  dgar  waa  amoklng; 


And 


nzednpon  tl , 

Took'd  kka  H<»naaJoUns1 


QmpMl,  with  lenrCby  pipe 
Seem'd  like  »  ^M  in  clover  i 

Ifaginn,  amy ed  in  Daw  brown 
A  gentleman  all  over, 

Croktr,  the  Iriih  faiij  king, 
And  Oberon  or  the  modems. 


But  to  resume  mj  list :  - 


III.  Febrnarr. 
March. 
ApriL 


Januarr. 

T.  Febniaiy. 

March. 

April. 
May. 

TI.  Angoal. 
September. 
October. 
November. 
December. 

TIL  Jannary, 
Febmaiy. 

May." 
VUL  Jnly." 


Crofton  Croker. 

John  Wllaon. 

Mary  Rnssell  Hitford. 

Don  Telesftro  de  Troeba  y  Coiic^ 

The  i>rl  of  Monster, 

Lord  John  RosaelL 

John  Wilaon  Croker. 

Tj-dna   Pooh-Pooh,  "OHr   Han   of 

Genina." 
Washington  Irving. 
Lord  Brougham  and  Yanx. 

1SB3. 
Bobert  Maiitgomei7. 
James  Hogg. 
The  Baron  von  Goethe. 
Israel  (ric)  D'lsraea 
Tbe  AQtiqaarks. 
Louis  Eustache  Ude. 
liev.  Doctor  Lardoer. 
Edward  Lytlon  Bulwer. 
Allan  Cunniagham. 
William  Wordawortb. 
Sir  David  firewater. 
William  Boscoe. 


Coontesa  of  Blesalnirton. 
"Tbe Tiger"  (W.Dnnlop.) 
Benjamin  D'laiaelL 
Thomaa  Carlyle. 
Samnel  Taylor  Coleridge. 
George  Croikshank. 


October.        Mlai  Landon. 
November.   Hiss  Harriet  Martineau. 
December.    Grant  Thorbnm  ("  Laurie  Todd.") 


IZ.  Jannary. 
Febmuy. 


Captain  Ross- 
Sir  Eiertoo  BrydgBS. 

I'Connell  and  Bichard  Laloi 


September.   Dr.  Moir. 


ShleL 

April.  Theodore  Hook. 

May.  Chules  Molloy  Weetmaoolt. 

June.  Leigh  Hnut. 

X.  Jnly.  W.  H.  Ainswortb. 

August        Thomaa  Hill, 
September.   Sev.  George  Robert  Glelg. 
October.         WUUam  Godwin. 
November.   James  Smith. 
December.    Count  D'Ursay. 
ISSS. 
XL  Jannaiy.      The  Fraserians. 
Febmaiy.     Charles  Lamb, 
Harch.  Pierre  Jean  de  BiJrangcr. 

ApriL  liiu  Jane  Porter. 

May,  Lady  Morgan. 

June.  Aluic  AtUla  Watts. 

XIL  Jnly.  Lord  Eian^  Egerton. 

Angnat,        Henry  O'Brieo. 
September.  Michael  Thomas  Sadler. 
October.       William  Cobbett. 
November.    Earl  of  Mulgrave. 
December.    Robert  Macniah. 
1636. 
Re^aa's  Hiids  of  Honour. 
Michael  Faiadav. 
Rev.  William  Ijsls  Bowles. 
Francia  Place. 
Sir  John  C.  Hobhonse. 
Mrs.  S.  C.  Hall. 
Mr.  Seijeant  Tallourd. 
Sir  Jobn  Soane. 
September.   Sheridan  Knowles. 
October.        Lord  Lyndhnrsl. 
November.   Edmund  Lodge. 
December.    John  Baldwin  Bnckatone. 
XT.  None. 

Here  is  a  aolutjon  in  the  continuitv  of  oar 
series.  No  portraits  appeared  in  this  yolume,  tha 
editor  expresvog  in  his  preface  the  fear  that  its 
leaders  wiH  miss  "our  old  fnmilisr  faces — the 

Siculiar  feature  of  the  magazine — oui  Monthlj 
allery."    He  adds ;  — 

"  We  cannot  avoid  seeing  that  our  original  compact, 
of  giving  our  readen  sketches  of  iUuttrionj  liteiuy  cha- 
racters, can  hardly  be  kept  up.   .    .    .  Complaints  bar* 

reached  us  that  some,  occasionally  pi --"   ' •  '-'"' 

this  condition.   .  .  .  intend  to  lie  1 


up  fit  for  tha  industry  of  our  rabouK 

XTI.  None. 

1888. 
XTII,  March.         Sir  WUUsm  Moleinrortb. 
April.  Bev.  Sydn^  Smith. 

Here  the  series  teirninates,  and  I  sm  not  avara 
that  other  plates  appeared.    I  take  the  following  . 


XIIL  Jannary. 
Febmarv. 
March. 
April. 


4*s.Tii.  Makchii,-;!.]  notes  and  QUERIES. 


213 


analjus  from  a  latoi  volume  of  the  maguine 

(voLixi.p.31):  — 

76  Separate   portraits:   omit  Tjdos  Pooh-Poob, 

■Dd  add  Shid,  who  npeus  on  unw  plite 

isCobbett 78 

27  Fignrea  m  "  The  FtSHrlwa  " :  dednct  18  which 

liad  pnTionslr  (ppeaied,  IcaTing     .  .         9 

18rigac«ia"ThBAntiqiiariM":  dednctSwhicU 

hid  preHonalT  appeared,  leaving    .  IS 

Each  of  "  Bi«ina'a  Haids  of  Houoor  "^  had  had  ■ 

aepanta  ptate  to  handf       .  ,  ■       n 

Total  number  of  portraits        .  .  102 


Perceval  W.  Banks. 
John  Churchill. 
Jamea  Fraaer. 
Her.  Edward  Irving. 
B>7.  Fraada  Mahuor. 


Francis  Matphj. 

Brran  W.  Proctor  ("  Bany 

Cornwall.") 
Bobcrt  Sonthef . 
Williain  M.  Thackeraj-. 


There  can  be  littlo  doubt  that  the  next  figure 
but  one  to  the  right  of  Dr.  Magina  ia  intended 
for  Souther;  the  aquiline  contour  of  tho  face 
lesembles  tnat  of  the  Laureate,  and  the  identifi- 
CatioQ  is  corroborated  by  Mahony  in  his  repro- 
duction of  the  cartoon  ior  Bohn's  edition  of  Th« 
Seii^uet  of  Fatier  ProtO.  Still  it  is  curious  that  in 
Maginu'a  paper,  "  The  Fraaeriona  "  (Frater't  Mag. 
xi  10),  Southej  is  not  mentioned,  and  Maclise 
aUnded  to  as  sitting  to  the  left  of  Barry  Corn- 
wall. Crofton  Crolcer,  in  his  afcei-dinner  speech, 
k  nude  to  mj  : — 

"  While  we  were  all  chattering  and  gabbling  about  the 
aHmr*  of  all  kinds  of  writing-people,  we  were  fatgeitiog 
that  there  waa  sitting  among  ui  a  deeent  Cdlow,  wbo 
""""" '  "'  — Mngfaoeain  a  manner  DBVer  beat  yet. 


It  like  n 


re  he  is,  Uan  —  I  bftg  pardon, 
for  I  was  nncommon  near  making  a  slip  of  the  tongue — 
there  he  is,  Mr,  Alfred  Croqois,  sitting  cheek  by  jowl  to 
Hr.  Barry  Cornwall ;  and  a  neat  article  he  is— I  mean 
Croqnis  eqnally  as  well  as  I  mean  Cornwall.  There  be 
U,  as  prim  and  demare  as  a  yonng  lady  at  a  cbristming, 
audcood  luck  to  bim  ;  only  be  is  caricaturing  us  alt  (he 
whole  time  be  is  sitting  (here  aa  quiet  as  if  he  were  a 
mooae  in  a  cheeae.  Xevertheiess  I  give  his  health,  and 
long  may  he  live  lo  Aelch  and  etch.  Here's  yonr  huJth, 
Dan,  my  boy  1— Alfred  I  mean,  only  it's  ihe  some 
tbiag." 

The  "Doctor"  must  have  made  a  mistake; 
be  sboold  have  known  bis  liaht-band  neightMoi — 
once  removed,  it  is  true— but  tlieo,  it  was  after 
dinner  I 

The  following  qipear  for  the  first  time  in  "  The 

AntifjiiTTAft  " ; — . 

Earl  of  Aberdeen.  WlUiam  B.  Hamilton. 

William  H.  Brooke.  Alfred  John  Kempa. 

Nicholas  Cariisle.  Robert  Lemon. 

lohn  Caley.  J.  Martin. 

Sir  Henry  Ellis.  John  Bowyer  Nicboli. 

John  Froat.  Sir  Harria  Nicolas. 

Davias  Gilbert.  WUliam  Henry  Rosier. 
Bmot  Hallam. 


Shortly  after  the  discontinuance  of  the  series 
was  issued  in  a  aubstantife  form  "  A  Colleetion 
of  Literary  Portraits  from  Frawr's  Maffosme." 
Tbe  foUowing  were  the  platea  selected : — 

1.  The  Society   of  Anti-  17.  John  Gibson  LookharL 
quaries.  18.  Doctor  Magiun. 

2.  The  Conntees  of  Bless-  19.  Miss  Hitford. 
ington.  20.  Robert  Montgomery. 

3.  I-OTd     Brougham     and  21.  Thomas  Hoora. 
Vanx.  22.  James  Morier. 

4.  Edward  Lytton  Bui wer.  23.  The  Earl  of  Munster. 
b.  Thomas  Cunpbetl.  S4.  Hon.  Urs.  Norton. 

6.  Tbe  Bight  Hon.  John  25.  Samuel  Rogers. 
Wilson  Croker.  26.  William  Roscoe. 

7f  ThomasCroftou  Croker.  27.  Lord  John  Russell. 
a  Allan  Cunningham.  28.  Sir  Waller  Scott. 

9.  Benjamin  D'laraelL         29.  Prince  de  Talleyrand. 

10.  Isaac  D'laraetL  SO.  DouTelesforodeTmeba 

11.  Jobn  Gait.  y  Coaio. 

12.  The  Baron  Ton  Qoethe.  31.  Tydns  Pooh-Pooh. 

13.  James  Hogg.  32.  Lonia  Eostacbe  Ude. 
1*.  Washington  Irring,         83.  Professor  Wilson. 

15.  William  Jerdan.  31.  WillUm  Wordsworth. 

16.  Rev.  Doctor  I.ardn«r. 

A  very  limited  number  of  this  edition  was 
printed ;  price  two  guineas  plain  proofs,  and  three 

Ceaa  iudia  proob,  of  which  latter  only  twenty* 
copies  were  stouck  oE  Tbe  drawings,  we 
are  tola,  had  been  destroyed  immediately  after 
their  first  appearance  j  and  not  one  bad  been  suf- 
fered to  get  abroad  detached  from  the  magazine. 
It  is  my  opinion  that  the  entire  series  of  tbe 
drawings  waa  the  production  of  Uaclise.  They 
form  a  splendid  collection,  of  deep  and  incTea»- 
ing  interest.  Some  are  &ee  outline  aketches  with 
crow-quill  and  lithographic  ink ;  some  artist's 
etchings,  and  some — as,  tor  instance,  the  portruts 
of  Sir  David  Brewster  and  Thomas  Carlyle— tbe 
most  finished  productions  of  tbe  burin,  in  the 
highest  style  of  tbe  engraver's  art  Hear  the 
editor's  farewell : — 

"How  can  we  pai 

word  or  two  aboat  him  to  v 
debtedfbr  It — our  old  and  muchrhononred  friend  Croqnis? 
He  is  rising  every  year  to  bigher  hoDoors  and 


we  maintain  that  tbe  sketcbea  of  Croquis  display  as  mndi 
talent  aa  any  prodaction  of  the  best  R.A.  or  A.R.A.  of 
tbe  lot — ay,  even  if  you  named  Maclise  himself."  — 
fVoHr's  Mag.  Jan.  1840,  p.  26. 

Equal  in  talent  are  tbe  accompanying  letter- 
press aketches.  Humorous,  learn ea,  racy,  pointed, 
and  vigorous;  scintillating  with  wit,  bitinr  with 
irony,  or  withering  with  sarcasm,  wbo  could  have 

{>TOduced  them  but  tbe  Doctok  himselfP  In  a 
eeliug  andpdnfullyinterestingUographyvmtten 
by  his  friend,  the  modem  Deipnosophist,  and  not 
by  Moir,  to  wbom  I  have  seen  it  attributed,  tbe 
following  passage  occurs ; — 

"  A  highly  popular  and  de%htfiil  feature  in  this  m^a- 
ilne  ( JViuer'i,  of  the  eatabUuinient  of  which  the  writer 
hosjust  been  speaking)  was  the  Gailtty  of  Liltrary  For- 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4«>S.TII.  UabchU,  n. 


(milt,  tbe  letterprui  for  nmi;  all  of  wbich  vu  written 
by  Maginn.  Tben  wen  entirelj  originil  in  plin  and 
execDtJDD,  and  cieiled  a  BensadoD  in  litenr;  ciiclea  not 
often  paralleled.  The  exquisite  sketches  by  Uiclise 
added  not  a.  little  to  their  attractioa.  As  a  whole,  thej 
■re,  we  ihiDk.  the  moat  original  and  sparkling  of  the 
Doctor's  prodootiona;  and  when  we  remember  that  they 
were  bit  off  »t  a  moment's  notice,  ws  shall  be  easily  able 
to  fancy  how  meteoric  was  the  ialelleet  from  which  the; 
emanated.      Wit  wai  their  principal  reoommendation. 

And  we  nerer  read  them  without  involuntarily 

tbinking  we  bear  the  Doctor  apeak,  for  they  are  per- 
fect reaemblancea  of  what  his  eonverastion  waa." — DuUiit 
Univ.  ^rag.  Jaa.  1844,  p.  88. 

One  sketch,  however  (that  of  Go6tlie)j  was 
written  by  Thomas  Garlyle,  and  is  included  m  the 
American  ediUon  of  bis  Ettayt;  the  drawing. 
too,  was  not  like  the  others,  advivtim,  hut  copiea 
bj  Maclise  from  the  fuli-length  portrait  bj 
Stieler  of  Munich. 

It  Duat  not  be  supposed  that  the  oii^naU  of 
the  portTuta  wete  iuTariablj  gratified  hy  the 
manner  in  which  artist  or  author  had  set  them 


aervatioDS  on  Uontgomerf,  Uiss  Martiueau,  and 
Lardne^  "  though  not  remarkably  harsh,  were 
uncalled-for  and  unjuat."  "  Lord  John  Rusaell," 
adds  he,  "and  two  or  three  others  should  not 
hare  been  there  at  all";  and  "some,  as  Qrant 
Thorbum,  the  thrice  centenarian,  Tom  Ilill,  and 
Eustache  Ude,  were  no  more  than  curiosities." 
Alaric  Watta,  who  waa  depicted  aa  moving  off 
from  eome  atudio  or  auction-room,  with  furtive 
speed,  a  picture  under  each  arm,  brought  an 
action  against  tbe  publisher  to  recover  damages 
for  a  libeL  He  got  a  verdict  for  160A  FVaser 
applied  for  a  new  trial,  and  obtained  a  rule  nmi 
but  on  the  case  being  heard  in  banco  the  trial  vras 
refused  on  a  technicid  point 

"  The  Fraserians  "  is  certainly  the  gem  of  the 
whole  collection,  "rendering  priceless,"  aa  the 
Grmkic  aaid  lately  in  its  notice  of  Uaclise,  "  the 
number  of  Frata^  (the  61  at}  in  which  it  ap- 
peared " ;  nor  can  I  conceive  a  more  interesting  or 
appropriate  ornament  than  it  for  the  lihrariea  of 
those  who  are  fortunate  enough  to  obtun  it. 

The  accompanying  paper,  entitled  also  "The 
Fraserisus,"  is  by  Maginn,  and  in  his  very  best 
style.  Mabony  (Father  Prout)  has  written  i 
further  account  of  this  ezqniaite  cartoon  than 
Bentence  in  his  preface  to  Bohn's  eidilion  of  the 
SdipuM  of  Father  Proulf  to  which,  for  tbe  &nt 
time,  the  plat«  itself,  with  the  name  of  the  original 
appended  to  each  portnut,  is  introduced  as  uod- 
tiapiece.  This  preface  bears  tbe  date  1869,  and 
is  jtrobably  that  concerning  which  J,  F.  U,  in- 
quires. At  that  time — twelve  years  ago — only 
eight  ont  of  the  twenty-seven  gueats  crowded 
round  f>B8ei's  table  were  living — 

" qnot  libni  in  docs  snmmo 

lavenies  I " 


What  is  now  left  of  that  brilliant  assemblags  of 
wit  and  learning  p 

Of  the  ainguLir  plate,  "Tydua  Fooh-f  ooh,  oni 
Man  of  Gemus,"  I  cannot  offer  any  explanation. 
It  ia  described  by  Fraser  himself  as  "  a  joke,  the 
point  of  which  ia  now  forgotten." 

A  similar  series  entitled  "  Our  Portrait  Gallery," 
inferior  in  interest  and  artistic  merit,  but  with 

.uch  longer  and  more  serious  hit^raphical  notices, 
will  be  fonnd  in  the  Dublin  Vmvertity  Magcasut*. 
Thisinehides  seventy-two  portraits,  and  concludes, 
I  think,  with. that  of  Captun  McClure,  R.N.,  in 
the  number  for  March,  1864,  vol.  xliii.  Those 
of  Moore  and  J.  W.  Croker,  vol.  xix. ;  Dr.  Maginn, 
vol.  xxiiL ;  Crofton  Croker,  voL  xxziv. ;  and  J.  8, 
KnowleSf  vol  xL,  have  their  prototypes  in  Fmer, 
with  which  they  may  be  compared. 

The  swnature  "  Alfred  Croquia,"  appended  to  so 
manv  of  the  porlfuts  in  Fraaei's  ''  Ualleiy "  by 
the  late  Daniel  Maclise,  R.A,  must  not  be  con- 
founded with  "Alfred  Crowquill,"  the  well- 
known  j)endl-name  by  which  that  clever  humor- 
ous artist  and  author,  Mr.  Forrester,  has  been 
familar  to  the  public  for  nsarly  half  a  centnry. 

To  conclude :  "  Fraser  "  remarks — and  here, 
again,  do  not  confuse  Hugh  Ftaser,  the  founder 
and  editor  of  tbe  magazine,  with  James  Fnan  of 
Regent  Street,  the  publisher, — "Fraser,"  I  say, 
remarks  on  the  conclusion  of  his  "  Gallei;  "  that 
it  forms  "  a  valuable  present  to  tbe  future  Gran- 
ger ;  even  as  it  is,  the  collection  ia  in  no  iacon- 
aiderable  demand  for  the  purpose  of  illustrating 
booksof  contemporary  literature.  .  .  .  In  another 
generation  it  will  form  an  object  of  greater  corio- 

Thia  prediction  is  verified.  What  a  truly 
charming  book  of  pictures  and  prose,  the  quinU 
essence,  aa  it  were,  of  Maclise  and  Maginn,  giving 
the  vetT  form  and  pressure  of  their  literary  time, 
would  uiia  century  of  illustrious  characters  make  I 
But  there  are,  I  am  afrud,  grave  diiSculties  in 
the  way.  The  stones,  plates,  and  drawings  are 
destroyed,  and  the  necessary  process  of  trarang 
would  be  in  all  cases  eipenaiTe,  in  manj  impoea- 
ble.  The  text  alone — Maginn's  graphic  pen-pic-  ' 
turea — would  of  itself  form  a  delightful  volume ; 
but  then  the  references  to  the  drawings  are  so 
fre<|uent  that  it  would  have  an  unsatisfactory  lur 
of  imperfection  without  them.  Still,  such  a  re- 
production might  not  be  impracticable  or  unre- 
munerative  j  and  I  for  one  should  heartily  rejoice 
in  the  ^possibility  of  the  possesMon,  in  a  commo- 
dious form,  of  that  which,  from  my  boyhood,  has 
been  to  me  a  aource  of  constant  delight  and 
interest  Williau  Batk. 

J.  F.  M.  will  find  Mahony's  account  of  Uac- 
lise'a  picture  of  "  The  Fraserians  "  for  which  be 
inquires,   accompanying   en   engraving  9^^^cMl^ 


4>»8.TII.  M*RCiil: 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Bobn'a  edition  (l&Xf)  of  The  Itetiguea  of  Father 
Prout,  which  is  also  illiutratud  hj  othsra  of  Mao- 
liu's  pictures,  inclndingtha  portraits  of  Bjnmger, 
Misa  LandoQ,  &&  Williau  Ksu-r. 

MOUNT  CALTABT. 

(i*  S.  vi.  642  J  vii.  02, 103.) 

In  ■  former  communication,  tit  p.  62, 1  quoted 

tleee  words  from  the  ISth  CirffcAen*  of  St  Cyril 

of  Jerusalem,  of  which  I  need  not  hero  repeat  the 

original  Greek  :— 

"llMtholjandnpnww'MiitGoIgotbii  and  to  b«  nen 
at  thl«  iMj,  and  shawiiig  ctcd  doit  hair  bj  ChiU  tba 
nek*  wcra  tent." 
In  bia  4th  CateehMM  the  holj'  bishop  also  sajs ; 

tAr  "yip  IpH^fnurAu  0iiv\i)0^i,  i  Torat  l\iyxu  f  ^* 
yiltntt,  t  iianipict  etrm  ray/aUt,  ir  f  rdr,  Sii  tV  ir 
a^^  FTavpuStfTOf  avyKticp€TijfAt9a, 

He  vu  trnlT  cmdfled  foe  our  ilni.  And  if  jou  woold 
denj  Ihl>,  tbe'corapiciunu  place  will  coDvince  jod  :  (liti 
happy  (Joleotba,  on  which  we  are  now  aiNoiblad  on 
•cooimt  of  him  who  was  craeiAad  upon  it. 

Agvn,  in  his  10th  GOeehetis  .— 

*0  FoXyof^is  A  Syior  a&ras  A  vit9paj/tm\K^ij  iiapT^*pti 
^awi^l9m.  ri  nviifta  rh  o^^xSt^ov  naprirptij  koI  6  Afffnr  A 
■  fiixfl  r^fHjMi'  nl^nii. 

Thli   halj  Qotgotba,  the  tiqttraiuiital, 
teslMca.    Tbe  most  boly  moDuraeat  bean  witaesa, 

Now  in  these. ptwsAges  we  have  the  clear  testi- 
mony of  no  illustrious  Father  of  the  Church,  who 
iras  Bishop  of  Jerusalem  in  the  fourth  century, 
vho  lived  in  Jerusalem,  and  delivered  theae  cate- 
chetical instrucUoQS  even  on  Calraiy  itself — that 
the  same  Golgotha,  or  Calvary,  hore  evident  wit- 
ness to  our  Lord's  crucifixion  by  its  ttmremuunt 
and  conspMuoiw and  roc^ appearance:  aJlofwhich 
features  prove  that  Calvary  was  on  elevated  spol^ 
and  justly  called  Mount  Calvary. 

But  Mr.  Tbw  dismisses  all  this  copious  testi- 
mony of  SL  Cyril  oa  "valuelesa,"  because  the  his- 
torian Sozomen  tells  us  that  the  enemies  of  the 
Christian  name  walled  in  tbe  holy  sepulchre  and 
the  place  of  Calvary,  levelled  the  ground,  and 
built  upon  it  utemple  to  Venus,  having  previously 
Goverea  the  place  with  a  huge  mound  of  earth, 
and  raised  tbe  ground  higher  than  it  was  before, 
"as  it  now  appears";  and  Si  Cyril  lived  long 
after  this  transaction.  But  he  declarea  that  at 
the  very  time  when  he  delivered  his  catechetical 
discoutaea  the  rocks  -were  conspicuous  before  his 
eyes,attestiDgtbeirbeingrentattliecrucifixion,and 
moreover  that  the  very  stone  of  the  sepulchre  was 
still  lying  there.  Clearly,  then,  either  the  rochy 
surface  of  Calvary  had  never  been  wholly  covered 
up  bv  tbe  heatbcDR,  or  it  had  been  laid  open  again 
by  Qie  excavations  of  St  Helen  when  she  dia- 


covered  the  cross  and  the  holy  sepulchre.  Soeo- 
men  speaks  indeed  of  Golgotha,  as  seen  in  his 
day,  being  higher  than  it  was  before,  but  it  does 


the  pagans  was  merely  to  bury  up  and  conceal  the 
holy  places,  but  we  are  still  free  to  believe  that 
they  were  of  a  certain  height  before ;  while  some 
parts  still  retained  in  tbe  time  of  Sozomen  a  con- 
uderable  portion  of  the  additional  elevation  of 
the  pagan  mound.  It  ia  not  likely,  however,  that 
the  rocka  bad  ever  been  covered ;  and  they,  and 
the  stone  of  Uie  sepulchre,  before  tbe  very  eyes  of 
St  Cyril  and  his  hearers,  afford  evidence  aurely 
not  to  be  summarily  dismissed  sa  "Talueleaa." 

F.  C.  H. 

I  am  Indebted  to  Mr.  Tew  for  pointing  out  tbe 
inaccuracy  of  the  translation  of  Sozomen  (Bohn's 
JSecI.  LiS.  1355)  to  which,  not  having  the  ori- 
(rinal  bewde  me,  I  bad  fooUably  enougn  trusted. 
Cl«ariy  he  does  not  make  Calvary  a  mount.  But 
beddes  Theodorus,  whom  I  have  alreadv  quoted, 
theBordeaux pilgrim  aaclearly does;  andhe  visited 
Jerusalem  while  Constantines  church  vras  build- 
ing, and  abont  a  himdred  yean  before  Sosomeo 
wrote — "A  sinistra  antem  parte  est  monttculvt 
Golgotha,  ubi  Dominua  crndflius  est"  fParthey 
and  Finder's  edit  p.  270.)  I  cannot  follow  Mb, 
Tbw's  reasoning  as  to  Cyril  being  no  authority. 
The  discovery  of  the  sepulchre  took  place  a.d.  326, 
and  he  was  Arch  bishop  of  Jerusalem  within  twenty- 
three  years  after.  Most  of  his  catechetical  lec- 
tures seem  to  have  been  actually  delivered  in  tbo 
church  of  Golgotha ;  and  in  addition  to  the  {tas- 
eage  quoted  from  these  by  P.  C.  H.  a  similar 
expression  occurs  in  hia  tenth  lecture^  j  19, 
where  be  speaks  of  "Golgotha,  this  hoiT  place, 
conspicuously  standing  up  "  (btfamrrtiKAt)  as  one 
of  tbe  witnesses  to  Christ. 

Whilst  upon  this  subject,  I  may  be  allowed  to 
notice  that  hitherto,  wbile  the  supporters  of  Mr. 
Ferguson's  theory  that  the  Dome  oT  the  Rock  is 
the  Anastasis  of  Constantine  could  point  to  vari- 
ous authors  in  tbe  early  centuries  wbo  identified 
tbe  scene  of  Christ's  paauon  with  the  bill_  on 
which  Abraham  offered  up  Isaac,  and  to  various 
others  who  identified  this  letter  vrith  the  Temple 
"  '11,  no  single  writer  baa  yet  been  found  wno 

<uld  be  proved  to  have  held  both  these  positiona. 
St.  Jerome,  indeed,  in  his  Commentar;  on  Genesis 
xzii.  3,  and  again  on  Jeremiah  xzvi  4,  describes 
the  mount  on  which  the  Temple  was  built  as  that 
on  which  Isaac  was  offered ;  and  he  ia  also  stated 
by  Augustine  (Sermo  71.  Dt  tempore)  to  have 
written  Bomewbere  "  that  oe  moat  certainly  knew 
from  ancient  authora  and  elder  Jews  that  Isaac 
was  sacrificed  on  the  spot  where  afterwards  Christ 
was  crucified."  But  no  passage  to  this  effect  can 
be  found  in  his  extant  works,  unless  wo  include 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [4"  s. Til.  March  ii, 71. 


the  CommeDtfli 
writings  (fdit.  Venet.  1771,  torn.  ii.  pars  3,  p.  126), 
but  which  is  generallf  believed  to  be  from  Another 
hand.  1  hsve,  however,  in  the  Teraon  of  the 
tract  of  TheodoTus  (to  whom  I  have  already  re- 
ferred, and  wlto  is  held  by  TiJbler,  and  I  belieTe 
rightl7,'to  hdve  written  towaida  the  close  of  tlia 
sixth  century)  in  the  Cottonian  Library  of  the 
Britisb  Museum  (Titus,  D.  ni.),  found  the  foUow- 


the  >ISS.,  havinK  in  this  place  adhered  to  the 
Paris  and  St.  Gall  versions  :— 

"  From  the  puaian  of  tbe  Lord,  irhich  ia  the  placa  of 
Calvary  to  the  sepQlcfaie  of  the  Lord,  fifteen  paces.  Then 
men  were  purged  from  tbHr  «[U.*  There  Abraham 
oObred  bla  bod  (or  a  barnt  o%ring  lo  the  Lord  )  and  he- 
canM  the  mount  is  rocky  it  is  ascended  by  steps.  There 
the  cross  of  the  Lord  vss  found,  vhere  it  is  called  Gol- 
eolha.  There  are  again  some  who  affirm  that  the  cross 
JtselAf  which  touch^  the  naked  body  of  the  Lord  and 
was  dyed  all  over  with  His  blood,  was  forthwith  carried 

at  last  appear  ftt  the  j  udgment.  And  note  that  the  place 
of  Jerusalem,  which  ia  called  the  valley  of  vision  by 
luiah  the  prophet,  is  the  eminence  i  of  Horia,  on  which 
aummit  also  la  the  little  hill  called  Moria  on  which 
Abraham  BacTiSced  Isaac.  When  the  Jews  report  that 
afleirwardal  the  Temple  was  built,  and  an  altar,  on 
which  [hill]  also  Abraham  made  an  allar,  and  David 
saw  the  angel  aheatliing  the  sword  in  the  threshing-floor 
of  Oroa  the  Jebuaite." 

Whatever  else  may  be  thought  of  the  above, 
one  thing  seems  clear,  that  the  writer  believed  tbe 
same  spot  to  have  witnessed  in  aucces^on  the 
offering  of  Isaac,  the  vimou  of  the  angel  at  Arau- 
nah's  toreshing-floor,  the  building  of  the  Temple, 
and  the  death  and  burial  of  our  Saviour. 

Alex.  B.  M'Gkigob. 
19,  Woodaide  Terrace,  Glasgow. 


MEANIKG  OF  "FOG." 

(4*  S.  vii.  96.) 

Fog  iaa  common  word,  used  in  South  Lancashire, 

as  applied  to  the  aftermath,  eddiih,  or  second  crop 
of  grass  in  meadows. 

In  the  Fjlde  district  of  Nori^h  Lancashire  the 
tenn  /oy  is  applied  to  the  long  grass  in  pastures 
not  eaten  by  cattle,  but  which  becomes  withered 
and  bleached  by  the  winter's  frost. 

Bailey,  in  the  tenth  edition  of  his  Englith  Dic- 
tionary, saja : — 

"  Fon  Jlprobably  of  affomrt  (Italian),  to  choak,  be- 


!"rucem  oneam     read  "cmcem  ipiam. 
The  teal  here  ia  yerj  difficult  to  dociphflr,  and  ap- 
parently very  corrupt.    lI  seems  to  read,  " .  .  .  ab  Isaia 
prophets  eminenliam  Moriam  in  quoque  summo  est  mou- 
tiinlus  Moria  diclu."." 


Also:  — 
Fooos"  I  Rant  grass  not  eaten  in  snmmer." 

Jauss  FxiRsoir. 

Milnrow. 

In  the  parish  of  Dunlno,  Hfesbire,  was  a  poN 
tion  of  land  or  outfield  ^lebe  called  the  "Fog- 
gage,"  into  which  the  minister's  cows  were  turaei 
to  pasture.  This,  as  I  remember  it,  would  not  be 
inaptly  described  by  your  quotation  from  Wedg- 
wood, viz.  "grass  not  eaten  down  in  saramer, 
that  grows  in  tuAs  over  the  winter."  This  place 
abounded  with  whins  and  broom,  and  presented 
all  over  patches  or  tufts  of  dried  or  weathered 
grass  in  various  stages  of  decay.  In  a  Oloitary  of 
tA«  Dialect  of  Craoat  (London,  1828)  this  word  is 
given  — 

"  Foo,  after-gran,  aflermatb,  not  in  the  eenw  of  Du- 
oanga  in  v.  fogagi<ai,  or  winter  eatage,  or  in  that  of  Ray. 
See  Jnniaa." 

"  Foo.  This  word  la  used  when  (Brmera  take  the  estlls 
out  of  their  pastares  in  antumn :  thay  aay,  *  they  ue 
boun' lo/oj  them.'" 

In  Westmoreland  feg  means  dead  ^rass.  Tho 
word  eeema  to  bo  from  A.-8./(^b,  dying;  Nors^ 
feiffia,  to  rot,  from  which  too,  doubtless,  Ine  Welsh 
fwff,  otherwise  foog.  Knkerton  tells  us  that  the 
language  that  we  call  Welsh,  but  which  b  probably- 
only  a  corrupt  form  of  the  Pictish  or  early  Scan- 
dinavian, is  full  of  Danish  and  English  words, 
Iilany  or  most  of  the  place-names  in  the  parish 
of  Dunino  are  Scandinavian,  one  of  which  espe- 
cially,  called  the  "TongueSj    which  not  even  the 

language. 

Buley  defines  — 

"  FoQ  Ubgagitaa,  Low  Lat.. '  gramen  in  foresta  regis 
locator  pro/o^io.' — Legea  for  Scot.].  Aflet-grass,  or  that 
which  grows  in  autanm  after  the  h^  has  been  mown." 

Also  — 

"  FooAoi,  or  FoooB  (firnt  law).  Rank  grais  not 

An  almost  similar  explanation  will  be  found  in 
Halliweli's  Dictionary  of  Archaic  and  l^ovincial 
Wordi.  I  may  also  menljon  that  fog,  foggage,  is 
by  no  means  confined  in  its  appellation  to  after- 
grass in  the  south  of  Scotland  and  Yorkshire ;  bnt, 
like  many  other  words  that  are  set  down  as  be-  ' 
longing  to  specified  dialects,  it  ia  used  in  the 
ez^me  north  of  Scotland  (in  Cuthness)  with 
the  same  signification  as  Bailey  defines  it.  I  have 
often  been  surprised  at  the  similarity  of  the  folk 
lore  of  the  north  of  England  and  the  north  of 
Scotland,  with  a  wide  space  from  the  lowlands 
of  Scotland  to  the  borders  of  England,  totallj 
dissimilar  in  the  same  respect  D.  Oiiaaa^,^  \r> 

Fi«a  Library,  Blackburn,        H  gi^izeo  by  V3^.H.JyiC 


i^S-VII.  MiRCHH.r 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


217 


This  was  a  common  word  in  Low  Lntln ;  but 
perhapa  the  most  formal  use  of  the  woid  appears 
to  hare  been  in  Scotiand.  Blount  (Law  Die- 
AoMirif )  has  — 

Hugno  d'Arnis,  in  his  abridgment  of  Ducange 
(Parifl,1866),  saya:  — 

"  FooAOLA.  Grunen  nt  Fogagitim:  'at  ftuierent  oves 
■nu  JBcere  in  terra  eua  et  in  fogsdaa'  [tie]  (Anno 
136B). — fiwrijrtiin<  gramen  quod  lestata  non  depucitnr, 
et  qiuid  apollads  jam  pratis  hlemali  tempore  mccteacit. — 
L^.  Seal." 

Wa  should  look  perhaps  in  this  direction  for  ita 
derivation.  £.  MiBamt.r, 

Suidfanl. 

S.  n.  is  wrong  in  sajing  that  the  word  /og  "  is 
common  in  onlj  parts  of  Yorkshire,"  as  I  have 
often  heard  the  word  usod   in    Leicestershire. 


tottiei 


THE  BLOCK  BOOKS. 
(4"  S.  ii.jwM.m;  vii.  13, 151.) 
It  is  nther  ^reeable  to  me  than  otherwise  to 
find  jf  our  correspondent  J.  C.  J.  has  so  lively  a 
lecoUection  of  the  statements  made  bj  me  in 
1868  in  relation  to  the  St  Christopher  (caUed) 
of  "  142^"  and  whatever  blame  can  be  justly 
accorded  me  for  my  first  essertdon,  "  that  the  date 
of  the  St  Christopher  had  been  tampered  with," 
I  freely  accept,  merely  observing  that  in  making 
Rich  a  statement  I  was  but  fulfilling  the  instinct 
of  common  sense  in  denouncing  the  idea  that  an 
engraving  of  the  excellence  of  the  "St  Christo- 

5 her  "  could  by  any  possiMlity  have  been  pro- 
uced  in  "  1423."  'Tis  true  I  had  not  then  seen 
the  engraving,  simply  because  the  opportunity  of 
so  doing  baa  been  wanting;  but  I  venture  to 
Bubmit,  that  to  lay  down  a  proposition  that  "  an 
opinion  on  any  particular  object  must  not  be 
enounced  in  the  aDsence  of  an  actual  inspection  of 
the  original "  will  be  fonnd  in  practice  not  only 
extremely  inconvenient,  but  absolutely  prejudicial 
to  the  true  interests  of  knowledge  ana  improve- 

ilj  conviction  that  the  "  St  Chriatophet "  was 
Dot  engraved  in  "1423"  was  so  dominant,  that 
being  unwilling  to  be  victimised  even  for  a 
moment  by  the  fallacy  which  had  deceived  all 
others— viz.  that  the  date  on  the  woodcut  pre- 
tended to  correctly  state  the  period  when  it  was 
actually  engraved— I  endeavoured  to  suggest  a 
meims  by  which  the  frau4  had  bsen  perpetrated ; 
and  in  so  doing  I  but  followed  in  the  footsteps  of 


learned  men  who  had  adopted  the  same  practice, 
amon^  whom  1  may  mention  Eoning,  Sotzman, 
and  Pmkerton,  neither  of  whom,  like  myself,  had 
ever  seen  the  woodcut.  Indeed,  if  your  readers 
wiU  refer  to  "  N.  &  Q.,"  4"-  S.  ii..  Sept  19, 1868, 
they  will,  I  believe,  find  I  have  there  stated  the 
circumstances  in  as  fair  and  frank  a  manner  as 
could  possibly  have  been  either  expected  or 
desired. 

Assuming,  however,  that  I  was  very  much  to 
blame  for  having  ventured  to  hazard  a  guess  as  to 
the  manner  in  which  the  year  "  1433  "  had  im- 
properly been  adopled  as  the  date  of  the  engrav- 
mg,  I  now  venture  to  ask  J.  C.  J.  whether  he  is 
prepared  to  dispute  my  decbration  that  the  "  St. 
Chnatopher  of  1423  was  printed  with  a  print- 
inK-press  and  printing-ink,  and  that  the  date 
"  1423  "  is  that  of  the  legend  and  jubilee  year  of 
St  ChristopherP  If  so,  I  am  perfecUy  willing  to 
discuss  those  questions  with  him  in  the  columns 
of  "  N.  &  Q."  i  and  J.  C.  J.  will,  I  hope,  forgive 
me  for  adding  that  unless  he  is  ready  to  do  so 
his  warning  to  your  readers  will  t>ecome  valueless, 
and  his  opinion  "vox  et  prmterea  nihil." 

The  avowal  of  J.  0.  J.  that  he  does  not  pro- 
pose discussing  the  matter  of  the  "  block-boots  " 
with  me,  renders  it  unnecessary  I  should  attach 
any  importance  to  his  placing  the  onus  on  me  of 
proving  that  the  "  received  opinion  is  false."  I 
nave  very  distinctly  laid  down  the  propositions  I 
am  prepared  to  mautain,  and  I  only  remain  silent 
in  the  earnest  hope  that  some  among  the  many 
of  your  learned  and  intelligent  correspondents  may 
take  np  the  subject  and  contest  it  furly  in  all  its' 
details.  At  present  I  am  the  challenger,  not  the 
challenged.  If  circumstances  should  hereafter 
lentjmately  arise  to  change  the  relative  positions, 
I  uiall  not  be  found  wanting. 

Heitet  F.  Holt. 
King'*  Road,  Clapham  Park. 


THE  ADVENT  HYMN:  "HELM3LEY." 

(4'»S.  vi.  112;  vii.41,  133.) 

HsBUZHTBimB  asks  a  very  proper  question,  con- 


sidering how  much  cant  is  talked  respecting  this 
or  that  hymn  tune  at  the  present  time.  Imay 
safely  reply,  that  it  is  impossible  to  "make  vul- 


garity "  by  any  combination  of  sounds  apart  from 
words^ — of  musical  sounds,  that  is.  "Helmsley" 
is  associated  in  the  minds  of  some  few  persona 
with  a  Miss  Catley,  of  questionable  fame ;  but 
even  those  who  talk  of  "Miss  Catley's  Hornpipe" 
can  tell  little  of  either  the  lady  or  the  tune. 
Those,  like  HsBXEnTRiniB  perhaps,  who  have 
heard  "Helmsley"  sung  by  a  large  congregation 
to  the  accompaniment  of  a  skilled  oi^anist,  will 
not  readily  forget  the  roll  of  its  sentences,  nor 
easily  learn  to  admire  the  characteriess  tunes  put 
forward  to  supply  its  place.    But  let  me  not  be 


218 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [i^aviL  m*bch1] 


miaunderatood :  it  ie  pos^ble  to  make  almost  any 
comlilnatioii  or  successioa  of  sounda  vulgar  by  the 
addition  of -worda,  no  matter  how  solema  tfaej  m&j 
be,  aiid  I  can  readilj  believe  that  "Helmsle; 
would,  under  some  orcumstances,  bscome  Tulgai 
almost  beyond  enduiaace.  It  ia  a  melody  made 
for  those  who  could  ring,  or  who  had  the  feeling 
of  iringera.  This  is  an  age  when  dinging  is  some- 
what  at  a  discount,  and  our  tunes  have  become  a 
series  of  syllabic  jerhs — have  indeed  been  made 
for  people  who  cannot  sing,  but  can  chatter  on 
like  magpes  upon  a  few  notes  at  any  pace  you 
ploaee.  This  eiplains  all,  W.  J.  Wbstbkook. 
Sydeaham. 

There  seems  to  be  some  confnrion  respecting 
the  woida  of  tho  eong  in  The  Odden  Pippin,  the 
melody  of  which  was  adapted  to  fonn  a  tune  for 
this  hymn.  My  friend  De,  RimbadIiT  (4*  S.  Vii. 
41)  states,  nnd  hii  evidence  is  corroborated  by 
Mb.  Wnxuu  Chatpbll  {Poptihr  Mtuic  of  tht 
Olden  Time,  p.  748)  and  other  writers,  that  the 
song  commencea  with  the  lines :  — 

*■  GmrditD  ingels  noir  protect  me, 
Seud  to  me  tbe  }-oatn  I  love." 
Bat  I  have  now  before  me  a  copy  of  the  music  in 
TAe  Ooldai  Pippin,  undated  (as  usual  with  music), 
but  which,  fiom  the  correspondence  of  the  names 
of  tbe  singers  prefixed  to  the  several  songs,  &&, 
viUi  those  of  the  performers  attached  to  ue  (fro- 
malia  periona  on  the  first  performance  of  the  bur- 
letta  at  Corent  Garden  Theatre,  on  February  Q, 
1773, 1  believe  to  be  coeval  with  the  production 
of  the  piece  in  which  the  following  song  appears 
in  connection  with  the  tune  altered  for  the  AdTent 
Hymn.  It  purports  to  have  been  "  sung  by  Miss 
Catley,"  who  personated  Juno :  — 

"  Where'a  ihe  mortal  wn  rraist  me  J 


"  Look  la  my  Tace,  my  gentle  Paris  : 
Can  aacb  beaoties  e^r  desneir? 
Where's  such  an  eve  as  this  ? 
Where  lip>  more  e'veet  to  kisa  7 
Oh  I  may  my  shepherd  hear  my  pray'r." 
There  is  no  song  commencing  "Guardian  an- 
gels," neither  do  those  words  occur  in  any  of  the 
songs.    I  have  not  seen  any  copy  of  the  piece  to 
compare  it  with  the  music 

1  should  be  glad  to  know  how  the  statement 
mode  by  gentlemen  so  conversant  with  such  mat- 
ters as  ^ose  I  have  named,  about  "Ouaiilian 
angels"  and  the  indisputable  fact  above  men- 
tioned,  can  be  reconciled.  Was  one  soag  sub- 
stituted for  the  other  (to  the  same  tune)  during 
the  fiiBt  run  of  the  piece ;  and  if  so,  which  is  tha 
original!*  The  Golden  P^in  was  revived  at 
Covent  Garden  Theatre  on  Iilay  11,  1793,  not 
having  been  played  for  eight  years  before ;  but  as 
Mrs.  Mor^  then  performed  Juno,  and  'Uie  tune 


in  qaestioQ  is  always  associated  with  Mist  Catley, 
I  imagine  the  alteration  (if  any)  must  have  beHl 
made  long  before  then. 

Can  any  one  tell  me  the  exact  date  of  pib- 
lication  of  the  CoUeatioit  of  Paalm  and  ^fmn 
Tutiei  (published  for  the  benefit  of  tbe  Lock 
Hospital),  in  which  the  tone  first  appeared  undei 
the  name  of  "Uelmsley,"  and  in  associalian  with 
the  Advent  HymnP  I  surmise  it  to  have  been 
not  very  long  after  the  production  of  The  Ooidea 
Pil^in.  W.  H.  Hoax. 


THE  BALTIUOEE  ASD  "OLD  MOETALITI  " 
PATER80N8. 
(4"-  S.  vi.  187,  207,  290, 354 ;  viL  60.) 
In  answer  to  your  correspondent  F.  B.,  I  have 
to  state  that  I  was  aware  of  the  letter  of  Sir 
Walter  Scott  to  Mr.  Train,  in  which  he  hesitatea 
to  accept  "the  extraordinary  connectioii  between 
the  Bonaparte  fomily  and  that  of  Old  Mortally." 
I  had,  however,  examined  the  quesdou  as  fnr  as 
I  bad  it  in  my  power,  and  had  saUsfied  myself 
that  the  weight  of  evidence,  tbouvh  not  altoge- 
ther conclurive,  was  in  favour  of  this  close  con- 
nection. 1  had  communicated  with  the  descend- 
ants of  "Old  Mortality"  in  this  country,  and 
found  that  the  belief  of  the  family,  though  they 
never  had  any  intercourse  with  their  Baltimore 
oomieetians,  was,  that  Madame  Bonaparte  was 
the  daughter  of  John,  aon  of  "Old  Mortality.** 
Then,  aa  I  stated  in  my  former  paper,  a  Baltimore 
gmtleman,  who  nvs  ma  name  as  Mr.  M'Clymont 
and  iiao  ids  address^  thoagh  it  has  been  loat, 
appeared  in  the  churdiysrd  of  Dalgamock  witbin 
the  last  two  years  (and  of  this  there  can  be  no 
doabt),  statii^^  that  he  had  been  requested  by 
Madame  Bonapart«  to  vint  the  ute  where  her 
gnndfatbar  had  been  buried.  I  I>elieved  that  it 
was  the  late  Jerome  Bonaparte  who  bad  made 
the  request,  but  in  this  1  find  I  had  made  a  mia- 
take,  ■»»  my  friend  who  had  the  interview  with 
ill.  M'Clymont  tella  me  that  Madame  Bonaparte 
was  the  party  named,  and  that  it  was  of^  her 
mndfalher's  grave  that  Mr.  M'Olymont  spoke. 
The  minister  of  QalashieU,  of  whom  Sir  Walter 
Scott  speaks  so  favourably,  is  the  Rev.  Dr.  Na- 
thaniel Paterson  of  Free  St  George's,  Glasgow. 
He  states  to  me,  through  his  dau^ter,  that  once 
"  hie  friend  Mr.  BinningHome  of  AuchenDowie,near 
Stitliag,  brought  a  Qeueral  Stewart  from  Btlli- 
more  to  call  upon  him.  This  General  Stewart 
knew  the  Petersons  of  Baltimore  intimately,  and 
talked  of  them  as  the  descendants  of  "  Old  Mor- 
tality." It  will  also  be  observed  that  the  names 
of  John's  children  appeared  to  follow  the  usual 
Scottish  rule  of  caUiog  the  eldest  children  after 
the  grandfather  and  grandmother.  Robert  seemed 
so  called  after  his  grandfather  Robert  Fateraoa, 
and  Eliiabeth  after  her  grandmother  Eliiabeth 


*!'S.Tii.MAECHii,7i.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


219 


Oro;.  If  tbere  be  do  relationehip,  this  is  a  cur 
coincidence.    I  thought,  therefore,  that  I 
jtistified  in  usumitig  that  MadBmeBonapaite 
granddaughter  of  "Old  Mortality,"  aa  sne  hetaelf 
seemed   from    Ml.    M'Cijmonta    etat^ment    to 
believe. 

In  this  opinion,  however,  it  seems  that  I  have 
heen  mistaken,  as  I  have  received  a  short  time 
Siffo  the  following  communication  from  a  friend  of 
Madame  Bonapute  in  answer  to  a  letter  which  I 
wrote  with  the  view  of  disovering,  if  possible, 
whether  she  conld  assist  in  settling  the  question. 
Her  friend  writes  to  tbe  following'  effect,  tepn- 
diadng  altogether  the  comiection  between  the 
fiunilies:— 

«  Baltimore,  November  lat,  1870^ 
-Sir, 

"  Tonr  letUr  oF  date  Tth  Oct  1S70  reached  Madame 
Boaaparis  a  considerable  lime  after  it  had  been  nrltteo, 

"I  am  requested  bvbnioinfbnn  yon, In  anawerto  the 
qneatlon  addreaaed  bj  raureelf  to  ber,  thaC  ahe  ia  not 
related  to,  or  deacended  from,  the  Scotch  VUemau,  of 
whom  she  knows  nothing  whatever. 

"  Her  anceators  were  all  bom  in  Ireland,  and  their 
namea  were  spelled  PaTterson  (not  Patereon).  She  knows 
nothing  whatover  of  the  Scotch  ParwaonaLeieopt  that 
they  are  not  in  anj  waj  relatirea  of  the  FaEtenunS  of 
Irelandor  of  tbe  United  Statea  of  America. 
"  Toon  rtq>ectfallj, 

"  Jaueb  L.  Batuis." 

This,  of  course,  raust  be  accepted  as  authorita- 
tively closing  the  qnestion ;  not  do  I  wish,  aa  the 
inqnirj  ia  a  mere  matter  of  antiquarian  interest, 
to  throw  doubts  on  Madame  Bonaparte's  die- 
cloimer,  yet,  as  the  belief  has  been  so  cootinuons 
for  so  long  a  time  that  John,  the  father  of  Madame 
Sonaparte,  was  the  son  Of  "Old  Mortality,"  I 
ahonld  like  to  know  whether  the  Pattersons  of 
Baltimore  hod  ever  ^ven  currency  to  this  report,  or 
at  anv  time  had  belteved  in  this  descent.  P.  A,  L. 
<4"'S.  vi  141),  who  was  acqawnted  in  1828  with 
Mr.  Carol],  the  maternal  gTandfatier  of  Mr.  Jerome 
B.  Patterson,  ma;  be  able  to  throw  some  light  on 
the  o;nnion  then  held  in  Baltimore  by  the  lamilj 


(4'»S.  vi3tJ9,479j  vii.  00.) 
Many  of  the  obsetvatioDB  of  your  correspondents 
J.  JxRXiOAH  «nd  J.  A.  PicTON  seem  very  pro- 
bably correct,  while,  as  it  must  be  added,  uiey 
commend  themselves  more  to  the  judgment  than 
those  of  J.  Ck.  it.  The  lands  of  PmnyUrial  are 
not  elevated,  rather  the  reverse  i  still  they  ore 
rituated  at  the  upper  end  of  a  long  fiat  piece  of 
marshy  land  yet  remaining  unimproved,  and  pos- 
mbly  unimprovable  at  any  moderate  amount  of  ex- 

Cise.  This  fla^  then,  may  be  the  tir  t4l  (the  poor 
d)oftiienamei  only  we  would  submit  whether 


idl  may  not  ratiier  refer  to  the  indigenous  taileaek, 
sallows,  Scoticd  sanghs,  with  which  this  bog 
abounds  and  must  have  always  abounded  P  Aueh- 
etuail  (such  is  the  present  spelling  nnd  pronuncia- 
tion) ia  a  form-town  in  the  neighbourhood,  and 
the  name  has  never  been  otherwise  interpreted 
Uian  as  the  "willow  inclosnre." 

_  Whether  Mb.  Pictom  is  as  happy  in  bis  deduc- 
tion of  Oim-itane  from  kona  or  Kuna,  we  may  be 
permitted  to  doubt  If  evm  in  Welsh  means  a 
summit,  as  Mb.  Jebbhiah  says,  or  a  bead  (cion-ui) 
according  to  Ma.  Chabmock,  may  the  name  not 
refer  to  ine  artifidal  cairn,  mound,  or  knoll  within 
which  was  found,  in  1782,  the  ciii-vam  mentioned^ 
J.  Ce.  R,  admits  that  it  may  be  deecri^tive  of  a 
memorial  stone  belonging  to  this  caim.  But 
supposing  this  view  ill-founded,  there  b  another 
wnich  may  be  adopted,  that  euggssted  by  Pro- 
fessor Stephens,  in  his  work  on  Runic  Inscrip- 
tions, where  he  says  f"  N.  &  Q.,"  4**  S.  vii.  68)  that 
ctmd  or  ffuad  is  an  old  Northern  word  signifying 
battle,  war.  Hence,  assuming  that  a  correct  view, 
may  not  Cwt-etone  refer  to  a  caim,  or  to  a  moito- 
lilh,  reared  in  memorial  of  some  battle,  or  of  some 
potent  Celtic  chief  who  fell  and  was  Interred 
within  the  eitt-uaen  t 

We  would  incline  to  trace  the  origin  of  these 
place-names  to  a  Celtic,  rather  than  a  Scandi- 
navian source ;  because  the  most  port,  if  not  all, 
of  the  ancient  namea  of  places  in  the  district  &11, 
vre  believe,  to  be  so  referred.  For  example,  there 
areDucholl  and  Ranfurly  (two  eitendve  baronies), 
Dupenny  or  Dippennie,  Sclates,  Mathknock  or 
Mathemock,  Auchenquill,  Callsyde  or  CaUasyde, 
Auchentiber,  AuchenDotnie,  Craigmarloch,  Bar- 
drain  or  Bardrainy,  Aucheucloickj  Clachen,  &C. 
(farm  towns),  and  many  others,  all  m  the  vicinity ; 
and  it  will  be  seen  whether  any  of  these  can  be 
claimed  by  J.  Ok.  R.  as  belonging  to  the  Scan- 
dinavian storehouse.  Ebckda&x. 


Albiarbeb  Jamcesoit,  M.A.  (4**  S.  vii.  142.) — 
He  had  received  an  LL.D.  degree,  and  was  an 
enthuuBstic  mathematician  and  a  clever  man.  He 
was  a  map  designer,  and  kept  a  school  in  London 
for  a  limited  number  of  pupils,  and  worked  most 
earnestly  in  his  vocation.  Afterwards  he  had  a 
boarding  school  not  far  from  Sion  House,  Chis- 
wick,  and  died  about  five  or  six  yean  ago. 

CO. 

He  was  also  the  author  of  A  7Veati>e  on  the 
CoiutrueUon  of  Mapt,  8vo,  London,  1814.  I 
remember  him  in  18^  as  principal  of  a  lai^ 

Bivate  school  at  Wvke  House,  near  Brentford, 
a  was  then  called  j)r.  Jamieson.  I  have  lately 
inquired  in  the  neighbourhood  what  became  (u 
him,  but  unsuccessfully,  J.  R.  B, 

Wm  07  Obokqe  Njstillb,  Lobd  Latiub 
(4*  S.  vii.  96,  168.)— Arms:  Quarterly,  1  and  4, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [4'''S.vii.auBCHii,'7i. 


Beauchomp  (gu.  between  a  fees  or,  three  cross 
ctoaBleta  01  the  gecond)  j  2  and  3,  qunrteilj,  1  and 
4,  Lisle  (gu.  B  lion  nunpont  ai^.  crowned  or); 
2  and  3,  Berkelef  (gu.  &  chevron  ug.  between 
eight  crosses  pattM  of  the  second). 

Hbbkertbvsb. 
*'  Tax  Hbibtb  of  Mnr  whicb  fomblt,"  xro. 
(i'^  8.  vii.  96.)— The  lines  inscribed  on  the  cor- 
nics  of  the  gallerT  at  Burlington  House  «n  taken 
from  Spenser's  ''Hynm  of  Heavenl;  Beauty," 
Terse  3:  — 
»  Tonchwfe  tbao,  O  TIwq  mort  Almightie  Spfigbt  t 


Of  thine  eternul  trath,  that  t  may  ibew 
Some  little  beama  to  cnorull  eje«  below 
Of  that  inmurtal  Bsaotia,  then  with  Tbee 
WUdi  in  mj  weaka  diatrangbtsd  mind  I  lee. 
"  That  with  ths  gloria  of  lo  goodi;  dgbt 
The  bearta  of  men,  which  fondly  ben  admyre 
Faire  seeming  ibewM^  and  feed  on  vaine  ddigbt ; 
Tnnspotted  with  celntlall  dny n 
Of  tboae  fain  formes,  may  iifl  thenndna  np  hyet. 
And  leune  to  love,  with  iraluos  humble  dewty, 
Tb'  Etemall  f  aantains  o(  Ibat  beavaaJy  Baanty." 


1  is  printed  at  length  in  Saleel  Poftry, 
J  the  Parker  Society,  1845,  2  Toli, 


The  hymn 

published  by .^, , , 

edited  by  Edward  Fan,  Esq.,  and  bom  whence 
this  qnotalian  is  drawn.  Dotll. 

"  Pni-BBTi-KappA  "  SooBxr  o»  Bostok  (4* 
B.iiL  108;  vii.  96.)— 

"  I  baTS  for  a  long  time  been  oonrinced  of  the  woiM 
than  mielen  charudei  of  tbia  aecrat  inaUtutlon.  .  .  . 
That  ths  Fhi-Beta.Kap[A  Society  ia  ■  aectet  aasodatlon 
b  wail  known  to  the  public  It  la  a  tpedea  of  Frea- 
masomy,  and  bean  aitrongalBnity  to  iL  If  the  opinion 
of  Hi.  Knapp,  in  his  Ute  defonce  of  Freemaaoniy,  be 
correct,  It  ia  a  biancb  of  the  lllnminili,  that  epnrious 
oKprin^  of  the  celebrated  Welihanpt.  .  . .  The*.  B.  K. 
Society  u  ntfoTtigu  mannfaetnte.  .  .  .  When  and  whera 
it  originated  I  nOTerwaa  infijmed,  norluTe  I  at  premnt 
aof  means  of  ascertaining.  From  lu  nature  and  forms 
it  IS  presoiDed  It  most  hare  commenced  in  some  of  the 
infidd  achooU  of  Europe  in  the  aeTanteenth  or  eif^toenth 
eantoiy.  It  wm  imported  into  this  eonntiy  from  France 
in  tlu  year  1776,  and,  u  It  is  said,  by  Thomas  Jefferson, 
lata  preaident  oT  the  United  Suiea.  It  was  first  nUb- 
Ilahed  at  William  and  Uaiy'i  CoU^aiaTii^iUa.  Upon 
the  decline,  and,  I  bdieva,  the  extinction,  at  that  colluta, 
during  the  revolutionary  war,  a  charter,  technical^  called 
an  a^ka,  was  obtained  bj'  the  atudentj  of  Tale  CoU^e, 
when  it  still  flanriahee.  From  thence  i(  was  imparted  to 
Harvard  and  Dartmouth  ;  and  since  that  time,  charters 
have  been  granted  to  the  students  of  Union  Colleea  in 
N.  T.  and  to  Bowdoin  tn  Uaine,  and  very  reoentlr,  I  nn- 
dentand,  to  Brown's  Univeiaity  in  Providence,  iC  I." 

The  above  extracts  are  from  a  work  by  Avery 
AUyn,  published  in  Boston  (U.  S.  A.)  in  1831. 
Nephbitk 

Desoeddaitts  at  Chaklbb  Bbaxdok,  Dusb  ot 
Suffolk  (4"  S.  vL  415, 660.)— Since  my  former 
communication  on  this  miint,  I  have  found  a 
notice  of  tlte  flunily  of  Mary  Lady  Monteagle, 
daughter  of  Charles  Brandon.    They  were  — 


1.  WiUiam  Stanley,  Lord  Monteagle,  married 
Anne^anghter  of  Sir  James  Laybome,  and  had 
issue  Elizabeth,  married  HenryLord  Morley. 

2.  Elisabeth,  married  Sir  lUcbaid  Young  of 
Somerset. 

3.  Msrgatet,  married  John  Taylere  of  London, 
merchant 

4.  Anne,  married  Sir  John  Clifton. 

AU  the  daughten  left  inue.    fHarL  MS.  4031, 

foL  42.)  HSBMSNIBDDX. 

PlIBONTHIO  PRBFH  "  UlC  "  (4*  S.  vi,  3S0.) 

To  what  I  have  affirmed  r^arding  the  Qothic 
origin  of  this  word  I  am  able  to  add  another  fact, 
vis.  that  in  a  Mauks  historv  by  a  writer  of  the 
name  of  Booth  it  is  mentionea  that  among  the  four 
DaniA  prelates  who  succeeded  to  St.  Brandon 
was  one  "  Aumond  Mac  Olave,"  in  A.  D.  1077. 

A  MiDDLB  Tkvplak. 

Bows  AMU  CuBTSSTS  (4*  8.  vi.  668 ;  vU.  109.) 
The  lout  (the  chsrity-girl's  "  bob  ")  is  many  cen- 
turies old :  the  curteeyj  I  suspect,  came  from 
Prance  with  Queen  Henrietta  Maria. 

Be  it  remembered  that  mssculiue  curtseys  were 
in  Togne  long  before  feminine  ones. 

Herxerteuds. 

"The  Hob  nr  the  Well  "  (4*  S.  vii.  201.)— 
This  ngn  (not  "Hole  in  the  Well")  is  taken  from 
an  old  £uDe  of  that  name.  Several  illustraUons 
of  it  may  be  seen  in  the  pariour  of  the  "  New 
Globe,"  Mile  End  Road.  G.  WbstlOcx. 

CambildBa. 

Savpums  (4''  S.  tL  COO ;  viL  21, 126.)— Sine* 
your  introduction  of  the  snbject  of  "  Samplers  " 
m  a  late  number  of  "  N.  &'  Q.''  I  have  made  in- 
quiries of  several  of  my  aged  relatives  and  friends 
on  the  matter,  and  have  seen  many  specimens  of 
the  art  that  was  very  prevalent  at  the  commence- 
meat  of  this  century,  and  np  to  about  1860,  since 
which  period  I  believe  a  more  refined  taste  has 
existed,  although  I  do  not  think  one  requiring  the 
attention  that  is  displayed  in  early  samplers. 

I  have  now  one  before  me  of  an  elaborate 
character;  it  contuiis  seversl  alphabetical  speci- 
mens, and  slso  a  sample  of  HmdiMngMt  "  satin 
atitch."  This  has  no  poetry  on  it,  but  the  scrip- 
tural text,  "Remember  now  thy  Creator,"  &c., 
and  was  worked  by  a  lady  in  Edinburgh  ss  early 
as  the  year  1600.  Another,  worked  by  my  aunt 
previous  to  the  year  1820,  has  the  following  lines 
thereon  :- 


"Prg 


Prayer,  the  mblln 


layer  Is  the  simplest  form  of  speech 

Tlial  Infs"  " 

rayer,  the 

The  Hajesty  on  High." 


itstnjns  til 


Mt  third    specimen  contuos  the  appropriate 
inquiry — 

"  Tell  cne,  ye  knowing  and  discerning  fbw, 
Where  I  may  find  a  Friend  both  Brm  and  tme ; 
One  who  dare  stand  by  me  when  In  deep  distress      i 
And  then  his  love  and  friendship  most  expnss."    -  |  Q 


n,ii.}         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


221 


It  is  to  be  lemarked,  that  in  all  these  examples 
of  the  manner  adopted  to  instil  into  the  lising 
memben  of  tbe  female  population  of  a  past, 
rather  than  the  present  age,  babita  of  industry, 
refinement,  and  rectitude,  the  teachers  have  in- 
yariablj  permitted  their  scholars  to  omit  the  year 
in  which  the  work  was  produced.  Probably  this 
waa  the  laat  "  gratification  "  that  was  accorfed  to 
the  jonng  ladies  by  their  tutors— not  to  mention 
other  conaidertttioDa  that  are  a  lady's  priTilege. 

EnilUND  JOY. 

SI,  Ndion  Sqnue,  S.E. 

Thb  Pedtt  0?  Gdido's  Aukora.  (4"'  S.  tii.  13, 
IIS.V^I  am  obliged  to  Bibliotheoab.  Cukihah. 
for  his  note  to  my  qnery  about  the  lines  on  the 
date  of  "  Ouido  s  Aurora,"  in  your  issue  of 
Feb.  4.  Would  he  further  oblige  me  by  in- 
formioK  me  who  Alexander  ^tolue  was,  and 
when  he  lived  P 

But  still  the  answer  is  not  complete.  Bibii- 
oiaBCAB.  Chbihaic.  saysi — 

"  The  description  ia  waitb^  of  notice,  inumnch  u  it 
eODtaioi  flidiji  oflht  exprtMtiont  in  the  venes  aubjoined, 
u  Hb.  Dawsok  Tubhib  informed  us  (!■'  S.  li.  S91),  to 
a  print  of  Gdclo's  oelebrstcd  Anrora." 

"  Many  of  the  expressions."  He  does  not  say 
tbat  the  lines  are  the  »ame  as,  those  on  the  print  j 
on  the  ooDtrary,  the  worda  rather  imply,  that 
though  nmilor,  they  are  not  the  lame.  Can  he  not 
teil  me  where  the  lines  which  are  actually  on  the 
plate  exist  P  It  would  be  a  gratification  to  me, 
and  probably^  to  othertj  as  is  evidenced  by  his 
own  eommnnication.  Did  Mb.  OAveoK  Tdrhxb, 
irbo  noticed  the  inscription,  not  notice  also  who 
ma  the  writeij  or  where  the  lines  are  to  be 
found  ?  S.  R. 

Wllmslow. 

OBieiX  01  THX  SuBHAVB  CvWIVaBiM  (4^  S. 

iiL  pauim .-  ir.  62,  179.J~The  fullowiog  extract 
from  the  Eirk'Session  records  of  DundooaU, 
Ajrahire,  if  it  does  not  settle  this  vexed  question, 
is  at  least  very  significant: — 

"Sf  Jaiie,ie07.  AolUs  giffine  vp.  Stda  Wibonn 
la  gailis  to  hsif  scbot  w>  lue  hsgblt  yia  da;  zv  dares 
nttmdar]  at  je  MnnTogis  Id  conbiea*  cooyn^am  la 
&■  madanea." 

Chalmenk  it  will  be  remembered,  rejects  the 
"beni^"  theory,  and  points  out  that  emvif  is 
the  Bntish  ^  rabbit,  and  that  cuningham  umply 
neons  "the  place  where  rabbits  abound."  It  is 
curious  to  find  this  opinion  supported  by  the 
actual  occurrence  of  the  word  here  as  a  common 
noun.  W.  F.  (2,) 

"  Gos  XADX  UiS,"  ira  (4'»  S.  vi.  345,  426, 
487 ;  vii.  41, 162.)— Ub.  J.  P.  Mobbib  has  cer- 
tainly presented  the  most  plausible  reply  which 
has  yet  appeared  in  answer  to  my  query  respecting 
the  authorship  of  the  above.    But  may  I  suggest, 


*  The  Laird  orCrvaby'B. 


with  all  due  deference  to  the  authority  he  quotes, 
there  is  a  probability  John  Oldland  ma^  not  have 
been  the  author  of  the  lines,  but  hove  simply,  "on 
the  spur  of  the  moment,"  oiade  a  hit  in  iocaUnmg 
them  by  the  addition  of  the  concluding  lines  given 
in  Mb.  Mobbis'b  veruonP  Have  any  of  your 
readers  met  with  the  rhymes  of  John  Oldland  in 
a  collected  form,  as  a  reference  to  them  would 
doubtlessly  throw  light  upon  the  matter  P  F.  S. 

Amu  oj  THE  Comrra  of  Piechb:  Nttqeht 
Fakilt  (4'>'  S.  vi.  £43;  vii.  111.}— Perhaps  some 
correspondent  would  oblige  us  with  a  copy  of  the 
foundation  charter  of  the  "  Abbey  of  Lonley" 
(eleventh  centurv).  Ordericta  Vitalit,  Dugdale, 
and  Palgrave,  might  theu  be  consulted  for  anno- 
tations. The  pretension  to  represent  the  house  of 
Belesme,  in  any  of  its  branches,  ia  too  important 
to  be  allowed  to  pass  genealogical  master  unex- 
amined. Sp. 


brillinli  iMo4t-f4  pr^poT^  et  exfcaUa  poor  •ztuminar 
le$  h^i^tlqoei  «  (AiSti  \m  habitans  de  cetla  vlUe.  II 
me  suffira  de  remarquer  ici  que  la  grand  Alboquerane 
s'empira  de  Go*  le  26  Qovembre  IfilO."  — L.  l^gl^ 
Jfmnwiu  A  r/iule,  i.  7a    Paris,  IStl. 

The  massacre,  compared  for  sanguinary  crueltj 
to  the  slaughter  of  the  Jews  on  different  occa- 
sions in  Europe,  for  which  two  dates  (a-d.  1469 
and  IGll)  are  ^ven  bv  Lafitau,  whose  account 
would  appear  to  have  been  derived  from  Joafide 
Barros'iiiHi,  continued  by  Diego  de  Conto,  seema 
to  resemble  more  in  character  the  auto-da-fii  above 
referred  to  than  the  indiscriminate  one  at  the 
taking  and  burning  of  Dabul  in  January,  1509, 
The  two  affairs  are  described  separately  (L  208 
and  319,  Lafitau)  as  belonging  to  diiferent  periods, 
and  cannot  therefore  be  identified — a  work  which 
Mb.  Chablbs  Nati.ob  had  evidently  not  met 
with  when  kindly  replying  to  my  query. 

kR.W.  Ellib. 

SUrcroM,  Dear  Exeter. 

Skbopbhibb  Satimo8(4*  S.  Tii.  9, 131.)— One 
other  of  the  wise  saws  of  our  Salopian  farmer, 
who  was  given  to  boast  that  he  was  "bom  on  the 
top  of  Badtey  without  a  shirt,"  may  be  worth 
preserving  as  still  applicable  to  the  titles  in  which 
we  live. 

It  was  used  by  him  to  check  extravagance  on 
the  part  of  any  one  of  his  daughters  who  should 
bafpeo  to  give  outward  proof  of  a  demre  to 
imitate  the  squire's  ladr  in  the  matter  of  dres& 
At  such  a  time  he  woula  shake  his  head,  elevate 
a  warninr  forefinger,  and  say  with  befitting  solem- 
nitv,  "  Ah  1  child,  many  a  good  horoe  dies  of  the 
fashiDtu," 

This  peculiar  disease  among  horses,  it  will  be 
remembered,  is  referred  to  in  the  Taming  o/Om[{2 


222 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.         [i-s-vii.  mah™  11.71. 


SArew,  where  it  ia  said  that  Petruoliio'H  steed, 
amidst  hia  many  other  afflictions,  u  "  infected 
with  the  fashions."  Elsewhere  I  have  fonnd  the 
complaint  deocribed  as  a  kind  of  leprosy . 

Wu.  UHDESHnX. 
IS,  Eell J  Straat,  Eeotiah  Town. 

Haib  gbowino  afieb  Death  (i'^  S.  tL  B24 ; 
vii.  66,  83, 130.)— In  the  Mxth  volume  of  Mw- 
folk  Archaology  is  on  iQterestdng  iiccount  of  the 
discoTet7,of  three  stooe  coffina  containiog  skele- 
tona  in  the  beautifully  restored  church  of  Brajton 
near  this  dty.  In  one  the  akeleton  laj  enclosed 
in  s  coae  or  lead,  which  had  entirely  enwrapped 
the  corpse  and  taken  the  form  of  the  inhumed 
person.  Amongst  other  particulars  respecting  it, 
it  is  stated  that  "  on  the  posteriar  part  of  the  skull 
was  a  considerable  quantity  of  hair  closely  matted 
together,"  and  in  a  I'oot-note  the  writer  aays; — 

"The  growth  of  baic  after  death  ia  somgthing  ex- 
traordiaai7>  and  preanniing  tha  corpse  to  be  of  the  date 
eirca  1300,  examplee  are  not  wanting  to  prove  the  pre- 
■erration  of  buman  hair  from  that  period  to  the  pre- 
mut  in  profiueaesa  and  even  beauty.  Some  few  yearv 
■ioce  a  (qium  box  or  coSa  containing  a  akeleton  waa 
found  in  the  Lady  Chapel  of  HerefonI  CathednL  Tbe 
bod}-  had  been  envelopBd  in  a  sheet  of  woollen  fabric 
The  hair  was  perfect  and  in  tbe  form  of  a  wig,  the  bones 
of  the  ahall  having  fUlea  away  from  iL    Tlie  coIodi  wa« 

.   — Ardiaohgin, 


a  yellow  red,  and  bo  profuse  in  qoa 
have  grown  conaldarably   after  dt 


"  3ucb  growth  la  fitquenlly  attested ;  bat  an  eztiaor- 

dinan  anecdote  on  tbe  eune  sobject  ii  worth  notice  here, 
If  only  for  tbe  singularitj  of  the  Matement.  Douglas 
ttjs  that  John  Pitt  assured  him  that  on  visiting  a  vault 
rf  hia  ancestors  in  Farley  Chapel,  Somenetshire,  he  saw 
tha  hair  of  tba  young  Lady  Chandon,  which  had  '-  - 
most  extraordinary  manner  grown  out  of  the  coffin. 
htntg  dawji  front  it ;  while  by  tbe  inscription  it  appeared 
she  had  been  hnried  atleast,  bo  says,  considerably 
ttian  a  hundred  yeara." 

For  my  part  I  do  not  believe  that  hair  can 
possibly  grow  after  death.  I  have  not  succeeded 
in  finding  a  well-marked  instance  on  record,  such 
an  one  indeed  as  would  place  the  matter  beyond 
dispute,  and  in  no  physiological  work  can  I  meet 
with  any  allueion  to  this  drcumstance. 

Chables  Williams. 

Norwich. 

WntPHROKA  (4'^  S.  Tii.  13, 133.>— Appended 
t«  Erdeswicke'B  Sta^arMiire,  printed  in  1723,  is 
"  Some  Account  of  Wolverhampton,"  by  Sir  Wil- 
liam Dugdale.     Therein  ha  writes  — 

"  In  this  great  parish,  King  £dg*r,  about  the  year  970 
<aDDo  Twoi  XL),  at  tbe  request  M  his  dying  stater,  Wnl- 
nhiDne  (as  'Us  said),  from  whom  'tis  called  WnkihrBOB- 
4Bmptoii(  foonded  a  chapel  of  eight  poctionaries,''  he. 

Erdeswicke's  tszt,  in  allaaion  to  the  name  of 
the  town,  says,  "so  oalled  because  one  Wul- 
i^una  was  Lady  thereof  About  the  time  that 
King  Edgar  was  Kingof  England." 

Seeing  that  King  Edgar  deceased  (five  years 


after  Wulphruna  is  stated  to  have  been  dying) 
"  A.D.  976,  anno  regai  16,  tetat.  83,"  that  he  owed 
his  throne  to  the  influence  of  the  monks,  whoas 
counsels  almost  entirely  guided  the  actions  of  his 
ragn,  while  Ethelred  II.  during  his  whole  reign 
was  engaged  in  constant  warfare  with  the  Danes, 
who  finally  drove  him  from  his  kingdom,  I  think 
the  precise  terms  of  Dugdale's  statement  car^ 
aome  weight  (they  were  my  authority,  vide  4"  8. 
vi.  536)  ;  and  HEKKBirrsiTDB,  there  can  be  little 
doubt,  is  right  in  her  inference  of  Wulphrunm'a 
parentage.  W.  E.  B. 

ROBBRT  FiTIHAENETS  OB  HaBFBIS  (4*  8.  vi. 

414,  6170— The  *"»"«  of  S.  H.  A.  H.  foils  to 
throw  light  on  the  ancestry  of  Robert  Pltz-Hervus. 
That  such  a  person  existed  there  can  be  no  doubt, 
but  whether  he  was  son  of  the  Duke  of  Orleans 
ia  questianabie.  Wace,  in  his  Eomaa  de  Sou, 
tells  us  that  he  was  th'e  "  son  of  £ro^  by 
Hawise  or  Haekwiae,  and  nephew  of  Raoul  da 
Tesson."  The  conjecture  of  Lord  Arthur  Hervey 
is  open  to  the  objection  that  the  name  of  "  Erneia 
due  d'Orleaos  "  occurs  in  eeveral  lists  of  militea 
{vide  Foie's  SoU,  Chron.  Nonnan,  Stow,  &c)  f 
besides  it  is  hardly  probable  that  the  t^e  was 
added  (as  conjectured  b^  Lord  Hervey)  to  a  per- 
son of  the  name  of  Emeia  in  the  eleventh  century 
by  any  one  familial  with  the  storv  of  an  Emes,8oa 
of  Sampson,  Duke  of  Orleans,  in  the  ninth  cen- 
tury. After  this  Ernes  (a.d.  81S)  the  next  Count 
orDuke  of  Orleans  ia  Odo  or Eudea,  whose  daugh- 
ter Ermentrude  married  Charles  the  Bald  in  842 
(vide  Voltaire  and  IJmier) ;  and  next  to  him 
"Eudea  Count  of  Paris  and  Orleans"  (iPn(.  858), 
who  was  elected  King  of  France  in  888,  and  from 
this  period  the  duchy  of  Orleans  appears  to  have 
belonged  to  the  House  of  Capet.  About  1060 
Count  Eudes,  brother  of  Henry  I.  of  France,  de- 
manded a  part  of  his  father's  dominions.  Is  it 
EoBsihle  that  this  Eudes  received  the  duchy  of 
irleans,  or  that  Orleanois  formed  part  of  tbe  duchy 
ot  Burgundy  (as  it  did  in  662),  and  that  RobMt 
Fiti'Hemeia  was  a  son  of  the  Bishop  of  Auxerrs 
or  of  a  Duke  of  Burgundy  F  In  Hi«t.  Norman. 
Seripl.  Antig.  I  find  at  5. 1031  "  Bob.  fil.  Emeia," 
p.  1046  "  Eudo  fil  Emeis,  Emeia  de  Burone,"  &c: 
p.  1044  "Hemeis,"  p.  1035"  Comes  Herueus"  and 
"  HereuB  de  Vtoio,  p.  1142  "Herueus  de  Safrs," 
p.  1030  "Herueus  de  Lion,"  &c.  &c  Are  these 
of  tbe  same  or  of  difierent  fomiliea  ? 

Now  Mr.  Collins  says  that  Robert  flti-Hervey 
bad  several  sons,  hut  from  the  Domesday  records 
we  are  left  to  conjecture  whether  any  or  all  of 
the  Heruena  therem  mentdoned  are  in  any  way 
related  to  him.  It  is  certain  "  Rob.  fil.  Ijneis 
is  not  mentioned  in  the  Stirva/,  yet  it  ia  podtively 
asserted  that  "Robert,  son  rf  Hervey,  who  gave 
lands  to  the  Abbot  of  Abingdon  wliich  Henry  I. 
confirmed,"  was  a  son  of  Robert  Fitx-Heivey, 


i^S-Tn-mitcnii.Ti.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


223 


Duke  of  Orleaas.  Heia  the  chain  is  broken,  uid 
from  Henrj,  or  Hetreus  fil.  Hervei,  the  HerTeys, 
Batlecs,  and  Cliboraes  clum  deaceot.  If  Dou- 
mouliu  gives  the  armB  of  Robert  Fitz-HerTer,  or 
of  the  other  Emus  or  Hecveb,  additional  light 
miij  be  thrown  on  thia'subject.  Nimrod. 

Fediosbb  OB  Mobtlhbb'  (4'"  3.  vii.  12.)— 
3BefotB  it  can  be  diacoYered  how  the  I^y  Mau- 
ritia  was  related  to  Leouor  the  Faithful,  we  must 
ascertain  her  father's  name  with  rather  more  cer- 
tainty. Different  writers  call  him  Sir  William  de 
Feuollea,  de  Fandles,  de  Flndlass,  and  simdrf 
other  Tariationa.  Now  none  of  them  sound  par- 
ticularly Spuiish,  and  it  ia  just  possible  that  the 
reUtioDship  may  have  come  throuffh  the  queen's 
IVeneh  moLher,  JaaoDe  Countess  of  Aumole  and 
Faatbieu.  ifo- mother  waa^41ice  of  France;  the 
kinship  (if  in  this  direction  at  all)  mutt  be  sought 
on  the  father's  side,  Hbrkentbusb. 

■  Thh  ST&iSBimQ  Libbabt  (4""  8.  Tii.  120.)— 
In  the  interests  of  litentun  one  rqoiccs  to  learn 
that  efforts  are  beinr  made  to  gi?e  Strasburg  once 
more  a  library  worthy  of  the  town ;  but  is  it  not 
worth  inquiring  how  or  by  whose  default  its  late 
famous  collection  has  utterly  perished  P  Few 
perhaps  who  have  oot  seen  books  in  or  nitet  a 
in  taiow  how  rarely  what  newspapers  mil  the 
"  devourinfi^  element "  efiects  the  complete  de- 
etmction  of  such  a  mass  of  thorn,  but  to  those 
who  do,  it  must  seem  almost  incredible  that  a 
great  deal  of  ralusble  salvage  did  not  remain. 

Supposing',  however,  that  the  ravages  of  fire 
were  as  destructive  as  they  have  been  represented, 
what  claim  has  a  town  or  corporation,  to  a  new 
library  when  it  took  no  pains  to  preserve  tie  old 
one  ?  Was  it  nobody's  business  because  eveiy- 
body's  to  place  such  treasures  as  the  Gutenberg 
US.  or  the  Hortus  Oeliciarum  in  a  place  of  safety 
even  at  the  veiy  commencement  of  the  siege  P 

G.  M.  G. 

Behhmih  Caerikr  (i'"  S.  vii.  97,  130,  150.) 
A  few  additional  particulars  of  the  life  of  Dr. 
Carrier  may  not  be  unacceptable.  He  was  chap- 
lain and  preacher  At  the  court  of  Sing  James  I., 
and  always  iiicUned  to  pacific  measures  in  matters 
of  religion.  Jn  his  letters  he  appears  to  insinuate 
that  James  was  disposed  to  attempt  a  coalition 
between  the  Catholic  and  Anglican  churohes.  Dr. 
Carrier,  however,  convinced  that  such  a  scheme 
was  impracticable,  resolved  to  embrace  the  Catholic 
fikith.  Be  obt^ned  leave  of  the  king  to  go  to 
Spa,  on  account  of  his  health,  where  his  conver- 
•ion  was  completed.  James  onlered  Casaubon  and 
others  to  write  to  him,  and  send  him  a  peremptory 
order  to  return  to  England,  having  a  strong  eus- 
ptdon  of  the  doctor's  intention.  When  his  con- 
Teraioii  became  known,  the  king  highly  resented 
it.  He  had  indeed  so  great  a  regard  for  Br,  Car- 
lier,  that  he  was  believed  to  have  been  the  con- 


fidant of  his  majesty's  private  sentiments  as  to 
religion.     Carrier  received  many  letters  connatu- 
lattag  him  on  his  conversion,  from  Rome,  Paris, 
and  several  other  places.    At  the  invitation  of  the 
Cardinal  Du  Perron  he  went  to  Paris,  and  died 
there  in  June  1614.    His  works  are — Sertnon* 
preached  while  he  was  a  Protestant;  A  Mimw 
to  hii  Majedy  of  Oreat   Britain,  containing  the 
motives  of  ,hu  conversion  (iJege,  1614),  and  A 
Letter  of  the  miserable  Sad)  of  tuch  as  impugn  th» 
Catholic  Fd^  published  in  1616  after  his  death. 
See  Dodd's  Church  Sitlory,  vol.  ii.,  who  wrote 
his  occonot  from  several  original  letters  in  his 
keeping  from  Carrier,  Casaubon,  Dii  Perron,  ftc 
F.6.H. 
Post  Peophecteb  (4*  S.  vL  370,  396, 488 ;  ,viL 
42,  161.)— A,  R,'gjeude  moU  -^sa  richaufi  in 
Paris  in  September  1866  thus  :— 
"  L'ltslie  at  bite 

Et  Rome  contrebiCe, 
.      L'Autiicho  est  dtfuita 

Et  rAllsmagne  nCaiEe, 

La  Pniue  eat  surfalte. 

La  Franca  eat  parfaiU, 

Et  I'ADgUteria  uCufuite." 

W.  T.  IT. 
DnriRniB  of  Dkcsot,  Sek.  (?)  (4"^  S.  vii.  95, 
148.)— This  piece  is  not  a  coin  of  Druaus,  Sen., 
but  of  the  Emperor  Nero  when  a  young  man.  The 
obverse  legend  is  "sexo  clavd.  cabs,  dbvbvs 
SKRK.  panic.  ITVBBT."    Young  bust,  bare;  and 

Bvx.  Bs  S.O.,"  which  inteijjireted  reads  "  Saceidos 
cooptatus  in  omni  conl^io  supra  numerum  ex 
senatftsconsulto."  Type;— simpulum,  tripod,  litaus, 
'and  patera.  Thecoiu  will  be  found  in  Eckhel,  who 
nves  explanatory  notes,  and  in  Cohen. 

F.W.M. 
Mbhtal  Equalitt  op  thb  Sbibs  (4'*  S.  vii. 
97.) — Nearly  twenty  years  ago  a  "calculating 
girl  "  appeared  in  Ayrshire,  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Kilmarnock.  Accounts  of  her  wonderful  feat! 
appeared  in  the  Glasgow  papers  and  attracted 
notice.  Some  persons  (among  whom  was,  1  think, 
a  member  of  the  Hastings  family)  interested  them- 
selves in  her,  and  she  was  sent  to  Edinburgh  to 
be  educoted,  where  she  attended  the  school  of 

S'  lata  friend  Mr.  Peter  Currie,  George  Street, 
tbongh,  I  dare  say,  I  must  have  seen  the  girl  in 
his  school,  he  never  exhibtted  any  of  her  feats  to 
me;  but  he  often  spoke  of  them,  and  many  per- 
sons, including  ladies  of  title,  visited  the  school 
for  the  purpose  of  witnessing  her  wonderful  powers. 
It  would  be  quite  unsafe  for  me  to  attempt  to  give 
any  detailed  account  of  these,  but  I  remember  that 
Mr.  Currie  used  to  speak  of  the  marvellons  ra- 
pidity and  accuracy  with  which  she  multiplied  a 
long  TOW  of  figures  by  a  multiplier  some  four  or 
five  deep  without  using  pen  or  pencil.  I  make 
no  question  but  that  mnny  of  her  schoolfellows,  , 


221 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'kS.Tn.  UutcHll.'Tl. 


including  Mr.  Currie's  own  cLildren,  would  be 
able  to  mnuBh  further  particulars,  as  well  as  the 
ftixl's  name.  She  waa  in  attendance  at  the  «chool 
about  sixteen  jears  ago.  J.  H. 

I  can  attest  to  the  potsasuoD  of  thu  remarkable 
gift  b;  a  highlT  iolemgent  yonng  ladj.  At  sight 
yean  of  a^  ane  would  answer  the  moat  difficult 
qaestiona  m  mental  aritbjraetic  with  onlj  a  few 
mioatM'  conaideration — qaeatdons,  be  it  uuder- 
fitood,  that  poeed  older  and  more  learned  peraoos. 
M.  C.  Lt. 

"He  that  anra  Laitd,"  etc.  (4'*  S.  vii.  99.) 
Kther  W.  B.  'A,  AiOH's  "old  friend"  or  the 
achoolmaster  "nmned   B^m "  were  evidentlj 
acquunted  with  the  old  drinking  song  wliich  liaa 
been  reprinted  bj  Ux.  Wright  from  an  ancient 
manuscript  in  Ua  poaseanon : — 
"  Bring  ns  in  good  ale,  and  briog  a*  in  good  ale, 
For  ODT  bleued  Ladj'i  aike,  bring  us  in  good  ale. 
Bring  na  in  nu  brown  bread,  for  tliat  ia  made  of  bran ; 
Nor  bring  ua  in  no  while  bread,  for  (hat  ia  imly  grain 
Bat  brirur  us  in  good  aie. 
Bring  na  in  no  beef,  far  there  are  many  bones. 
But  bring  oi  in  good  tie,  for  Ihat  goea  down  at  once. 
Then  tiring  ns  in  good  ale. 
Bring  OS  in  no  bacon,  for  that  ii  paatinj[  fat ; 
"  ''  '  in  good  ale,  and  give  na  enough  of  that. 

So  bring  na  in  ^»d  ale. 
Brine  na  in  no  mutton.  fi>r  that  ia  often  lean  ; 
Nor  bring  ua  in  no  tripes,  far  tb«y  be  aeldom  clean. 
But  bring  na  in  good  ale. 


Bring  us  in  no  eggr,  for  there  be  manj  a 

Bnt  bring  us  in  good  ale,  and  gire  na  nol 

Then  bring  na 


ells; 


Uedlstai,  Babits  (4""  3.  Tii.  95.1— In  forming 
a  wooden  house  the  nprifhta  at  toe  enda  would 
be  beet  made  of  s  tree  of  which  one  of  the  branches 
was  cut  off  at  the  fork  of  the  Y,  and  the  roof 
tree  attached  by  pegs  and  cords.  The  remainiog 
branch  aloped  outwards,  and  wsa  richly  carved,  aa 
we  see  in  enmTinga  repnesenling  Norwegian  and 
Icelandic  halla. 

On  the  attack  on  Gunnar  of  Lithend  (Aj'afo 
Saga,  i.  244)  :— 

"  Some  ropes  lay  tbera  on  tbajtround,  and  ther  were 
often  osed  to  atrengthen  the  roof.  Then  Mord  aaid,  •  Let  ua 
take  tbe  ropca  and  throw  one  enil  over  (be  end  of  Ibe 
carrying  beams,  bnt  let  as  faaten  (be  other  end  to  these 
rocks  and  Cwial  them  (Jght  with  levers,  and  So  pull  Ibe 
roofotflhebaU.' 

"So  (he;  took  the  rope*  and  all  lent  a  band  to  carry 
tbia  out,  and  beftire  Gunnar  was  aware  of  it,  they  had 
pulled  the  whole  roof  off  the  ball." 


I  cannot  agree  with  tbe  slatement  that  tbe 
leaning  finials  alluded  to  are  ugly.  It  seems  to 
Bie  but  pleacdng  Tariely,  and  on  this  account  no 


doubt  they  were  made.  No  special  meaning  can 
be  attributed  to  them.  The  one  at  Bathampton 
is  ID  conjunction  witb  s  straight  or  uprigbt  one. 
The  two  beat  ecclesiastical  bams  in  England,  those 
at  Pilton  and  Olastonbuiy,  have  upright  finials. 
P.  E.  Masbt. 
Vbse:  Febsb:  Feaze  (i*^  S.  Ti.  195,  ^21,553; 
Tii.  109.) — As  no  reply  has  yet  appeared  to  Ma. 
ASDIS'S  query  regaraing  the  word  feasr,  I  bava 
to  Bay  that  it  ia  in  constant  use  in  Fife,  and  is 
invariably  applied  to  express  the  fretting  away  of 
the  hem  of  a  garment,  or  tbe  edge  of  a  piece  of 
cloth,  by  the  separation  of  tbe  woof  from  the 
warp.  It  is  BO  explained  b^  Jamieeon  in  his  Scot- 
tiik  Dictionary.  It  also  signifies  "  the  ravelling 
out  of  any  lope  or  cable  at  uie  enda,"  as  stated  by 
Bailey.  This  meaning  makes  clear  tbe  quotation 
given  by  Mb.  Adpis,  which  the  sense  of  "  driven 
away  "  does  not  do.  I  cannot  detect  in  Picker- 
ing's edition  the  line  in  Chaucer  referred  to,  and 
therefore  I  am  unable  to  say  whether  the  sense 
above  given  explains  the  paaaage  ;  but  in  regard 
to  the  quotation  f(«m  Fuller—"  Bishop  Turbervil 
recovered  some  lost  lauds,  which  Bishop  Voyser 
had  ixitd" — the  gloas  by  Fuller  of  "driven  away ' 
is  deddedlv  wrong.  Lauds  cannot  be  driven 
away,  but  tney  may  befrttitd  away  by  encroach- 
menta  or  petty  salea.  It  waa  sucb  hnda,  beyond  a 
doubt,  that  Biahop  Turbervil  recovered.  The  same 
sense  explains  the  verse  quoted : — 

"  be  XI.  dai  fire  wiodls  aal  rise 

>e  rdnbow  tan  sal  fa] 
f>Bt  si )«  fcntis  sal  y  asris 

and  be  ifcrid  into  belle." 
A /<nf,  in  manufacturing  phraseology,  means  a 
small  piece  left  of  a  web ;  the  failii  of  the  rein- 
boK  are  tbe  fragments  of  the  liow  after  the  cloud 
becomes  broken,  and  tbey  were  i/mu^,  fretted  away 
into  helle,  darlmesa,  or  concealment.  Perhaps  llie 
connection  between  fretted  away  and  whipped  or 
beaten  is  to  be  found  in  the  fact  that  tbe  armies 
brousht  into  tbe  field  at  tbat  period  were  levied 
for  the  immediate  occauon,  at  the  call  of  their 
feudal  superior,  and  on  a  defeat  they  embraced 
the  opportunity  of  returning  to  their  homes ;  in 
[act,/ea2ed  awav,  which  from  this  drcnmstance 
came  to  ugnify  being  defeated  or  beaten.    A.  L. 

TiTLHBS  or  SuGAE  (4*  S.  vi.  569 ;  vii.  110.)— 

F.  G.  H.  says  that  a  titler  weighs  about  ten  pounds. 

I  have  before  me  the  bill  of  a  large  Loudon  grocer 

in  which  occurs  tbe  item  "  1  Titler  Sugar  364  Iba." 

a  P.  D. 


D  "Aet"  (l^S.  VU.80.)— The 
confusion  of  uae  of  these  words  was  very  well 
cleared  some  years  ago  by  a  writer  in  C?iamh«ri» 
JoumaL  He  aaid  "  sdence  "  bad  exdurive  refer- 
to  tbe  works  of  God ;  "  art "  excluaive  refer- 
ence to  the  works  of  man.  Tbe  line  thus  drawn  , 
is  probably  as  good  as  any  that  can  be  drawn.    It 


i«s.vn.M.m.ii,7i.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


u  certaialj  time  aome  rule  was  ieid  down,  for  no 
two  worda  in  the  langaage  ure  more  uaed  nrong- 
OBflly.  W.  H. 

Capar-FiTe. 

Thomsoit  a  Druid  (4*  S.  Tii.  97.)— I  Ijelieve 
that  CoUina  here  ueea  the  word  "I)ruid"iii  the 
sense  of  Britiflh  bard,  or  D&tiouftl  poet.  Without 
Msortinff  the  pecultar  propriety  of  this  epithet  as 
applied  to  ThomaoQ,  .1  Bnbmit  that  this  is  the 
usual  meoninff  of  the  word  in  poetrj,  which  natu- 
rally diaregaras  the  sacerdotal  and  other  aides  of 
the  Druid's  life,  except  that  of  bard.  Compare  in 
the  same  poet'a  ode  to  libertj : — 

"  The  cMeb  who  fill  oar  Albion's  ilorjr 


Hear  tbeir  consorted  Druidi  sing 
Their  triumpha  to  th'  ininiort»l  String." 

Also  Cowper'a  concepUoD  of  a  Druid  in  hia  "  Boa- 
dicea."  J.  H.  J.  Oaklet. 

Croydon. 

Is  not  Stephex  Jackson's  query  answered  by 
the  last  verse  of  the  dirge  itself  P— 

"  Long,  long  thy  stone  and  pointed  day 
Shall  melt  the  mimuK  Britoa'a  eyea : 
0 '.  Tolet  and  vild  mmb,  shall  he  «ay, 
In  yonder  grave  yone  Drmid  lie*." 

CoUina,  I  think,  considered  him  (Thomson)  as 
Nature'a  high  priest  and  poet ;  deliKhting,  like  the 
Dmid  sage,  in  leafy  aolitndea  and  in  the  dlent 
but  eloquent  language  of  hills  and  rales  and  founts 
and  baboling  atreams.  J.  A.  G. 

Carisbnwke. 

Feast  op  the  NinriTr  (or  oub  Lobd)  (4'*  S. 
Tii.  142.)— That  there  was  among  the  Orientala  a 
great  diversity  in  celebraUng  the  day  on  which 
OUT  divine  Redeemer  waa  bom,  is  evident  from 
the  early  Fathers.  SL  Clement  of  Alexandria, 
who  died  very  early  in  the  third  century,  ob- 
serves that  there  were  some  who  were  not  only 
curious  to  assign  the  ^ear,  but  even  the  day  of  our 
Lord's  nativity,  which  they  aud  waa  in  the 
twenty-eighth  year  of  Augustus,  and  on  the  26th 
of  the  m03th  Pachon  (the  Egyptian  month  be- 
ginmng  on  the  26th  of  April). 

Eiffl  ti  ol  vtpttf^irtfti  Tjj  yhitca  rtu  Strnjpai  fi/iSr 
lA  lUvBT  ri  tjot,  iAAi  (ol  rlir  li/tipar  rpmnlBtPTn  *  V 

He  gi>e8  on  to  state  the  practice  of  the  followers 
of  Basitides  in  celebratiog  the  times  of  our  Sa- 
viour's baptism  and  of  hia  passion;  and  adds  that 
some  of  tbem  also  said  that  he  was  bom  on  the 
24th  or  26th  of  Pharmuthi  (which  began  on  our 
27th  of  March). 

Nat  ii^r  Tint  atrrav  ^uTi  9apnov6i  yryirrria^ay  k'K, 
S.Clem.AUx.,  Sfronut.,  lib.  l.  poal  n«f. 

Casdan  testifies  that  the  more  common  practice 
of  the  churches  of  Egypt  was  to  keep  the  nativity 
of  our  Lord  on  the  6th  of  January.     (Cassian. 


churches,  by  St.  Epiphaniua  {Exposit.  Fidei,  xxii.)  : 
and  St.  John  Chrrsoetom  (Horn.  xxi.  de  Natali 
Chriiti)  informa  iiia  hearers  that  the  £aBtem 
churches  towards  the  end  of  the  fourth  century, 
being  taught  better  by  those  of  the  West,  fixed 
the  day  on  the  25th  of  December. 

"  Hie  dies,  qaam  ab  exordio  iia,  qni  In  Occidente  ha- 
tdtant,  cognitns  fiieriti  nanc  id  noa  demom  non  ante 
moltos  uiDOS  transmissns  Ita  increvit,"  &c. 

Z.  Z.  further  inquirea  at  what  time  the  featival 
of  Christmaa  assumed  the  character  of  saturnalia. 
Probably  very  soon,  from  the  proneness  of  men  to 
turn  the  most  sacred  festivals  mto  seasons  of  pro- 
fane joy  and  worldly  festivity.  Thus  we  find  the 
emperor  Theododus  the  younger,  in  the  early  part 
of  the  fifth  century,  severely  prohibiting  «imes 
and  public  spectacles  on  the  nativity  of  our  Lord, 
the  same  aa  on  Sundays.  (CW.  Thiodos.,  lib.  xv. 
tit  5,  de  ^>ectaculu.)  F.  C.  H. 

'EiKiiN  BAXIMKH'  (4"*  S,  vH.  9.)— After  the 
curious  and  valuable  piece  of  evidence  communi- 
cated by  Mb.  Slbioh  as  to  the  authorship  of  this 
celebrated  book,  the  opinions  of  so  capable  a 
critic  as  Southey  may  be  read  with  aoma  in- 

"  Among  other  bookil  have  been  reading  tl 

.     .  J  , —cept  perhaps  that  of 

,wn  Alexander  Cunningbanu)  but  the  internal  ev^ 
dence  is  strongly  in  its  favour,  and  I  very  much  dout 
whether  sn;  man  could  have  written  it  in  a  Qctitioi 
character,  the  character  is  ao  perfeclJy  observed.     If 

ticityofanythingw 


"  Wordsworth,  the  Master  of  Trinity,  bss  just  pub- 
lished a  volume  conoeming  tlie  EInou'  BmriAmti,  a  ques- 
tion of  DO  triSing  importance,  both  to  Onr  political  and 
literary  history.  As  far  as  minute  and  accamolative 
evidence  can  amount  to  proof,  he  has  proved  it  to  be 
gennine.  For  myBelf,IhaveEever,since  1  road  the  book, 
thought  that  any  an prejudicea  person  could  entertain  a 
dooht  coDceming  it.  1  am  the  more  gratified  that  this 
full  and  satiefactory  inveati^atioa  has  been  made,  becansa 
it  grew  oat  of  a  conversation  between  the  two  Words- 
worths  and  myself  at  Rydala  year  or  too  ago." — lb.  199. 

To  thb  may  be  added  the  teatdmony  of  South, 
which  I  happen  to  have  just  come  across : — 

" .  .  .  .  Let  his  own  writings  serve  for  a  witness,  which 
speak  him  no  less  an  author  than  a  monarch,  composed 
with  snch  an  nnfailing  accoi^cy,  such  a  cammanding 
DiBJeBtick  palAoM,  aa  ir  they  had  been  written  not  with  a 
pen  but  with  a  sceptre ;  and  as  for  those  whose  viralenti 
and  ridleulona  calumnies  ascribe  that  incomparable  work 
to  others,  'tis  a  sufficient  argnment  that  those  did  aot, 
because  they  could  not  write  it.  "Tis  bard  to  connterlUt 
the  spirit  of  msjeat}-,  and  tbe  mimitable  pecniiaritiee  of 


NOTES  AND   QUERIES.  Cl-»S.Tn.  March  U,-?!. 


an  IncommDDleable  genioB.'^— A  Sennan  preach'd  on  the 
xxi"  or  JiDHUT.  (i'Mtfanwu  WoriM  of  Ike  laU  Bn. 
Bobtrl  Soioh,  D.D^  Sro.    London,  1717,  p.  153.) 

WiLLUK  Bate). 

Binnlngham. 

Thk  SiRAioHT  Gate  ahd  Nabbow  Wat  (4* 
S.  \ii.  93.)— In  reference  to  the  "  Snxtd  wid 
Narrow  .Way,"  the  following:  extract  from  Win- 
wood  Reade^i  Savai/e  Africa  (p.  639J  zattj  be 
tiiought  interMting : — 

"The  Ibo  negroes  dncri be  Ibe  BonloTnian  as  poaieraing 
the  lame  subtw  nilnre  as  hia  ahadov.  Thef  uj  that 
such  Kwl  is  aecompanied  npon  the  way  to  lis  appointed 
place  bj  two  tpirits — a  aood  and  an  evil  one.  It  hu  to 
pass  over  s  dangerous  wall,  by  which  (he  rosd  is  divided. 
The  good  spirit  helps  the  eoal  happily;  the  fiTil  one 
knocks  his  head  against  It.  Alter  this  two  roads  appear, 
one  ii  narrow  and  the  other  broad.  Bj  ths  aarniw  road 
the  good  soul  la  led  by  ita  gnardian  geniiu  to  Uod  the 
iceniifnl  and  snpremej  by  the  broad  road  the  wicked 
Boul  Is  led  by  its  demon  to  a  plaeewhich  Is  always  dark." 

Surelj  this  must  be  the  retnuns  of  Chriatiau 
teaching.  CUFTOBD  W.  PbwBK. 

Sl  John's  Coa,  Camb. 

The  pAMsge  from  ESbea  quoted  by  the  Bbt. 
Mk.  Tbit  ie  quoted  hj  the  late  Dean  Alfoid,  in 
his  Greek  Testomeut  on  St  Matt.  Tii.  14. 

W.  A.  B.  C. 

The  parallel  passages  from  Matthew  vii.  14 
and  Cebes  (Tabula)  would  certainlj  funush  cu- 
riouB  matter  of  comparison  if  the  latter  had  been 
written  four  hundred  years  before  the  former,  aa 
Mb.  Tew  assumes.  But  tiie  truth  is,  that  the 
genuiuenesa  of  the  Tabula  of  Cebes  baa  been,  to 
eay  ^e  least  of  it,  seiioualv  disputed.  Some  as- 
cribe it  to  another  Cebes,  wno  lived  under  Marcus 
Aurelius;  some,  who  believe  it  to  be  partly  au- 
thentic, suspect  it  of  having  been  much  "  cooked" 
by  restorers,  as  indeed  is  in  some  places  indis- 

Eutable.  The  iofereoce  is  ver^  strong  that  the 
iter  Stoic  who  composed  this  interealjng  parable 
borrowed  from  Scripture.  Jbak  ib  TeodvbdB. 
Mors  Familt  (4'»  S.  ii.  866,  423,  449;  iii. 
268;  iv.  61,  62, 104, 147.)— I  have  beai  hoping 
that  Mb.  Aldis  Wwqht,  or  some  other  gentle- 
man, would  have  given  me  a  solution  of  the  in- 
ijui^  1  sought  as  to  tUb  armorial  bearings  ^yen 
to  the  chancellor's  family  in  the  MS.  collection  of 
Boman  Catholic  families  I  alluded  to,  viz.,  "Or, 
a  torteau  charged  widi  a  moorcock  ar.  and  two 
lions  passant  gnardant  In  pale  gii.  between  aa 
many  flaunchea  ar.  each  charged  with  a  fieui^e- 
lisea." 

Although  in  the  MS.  the  pedigree  is  given  at 
length,  no  allusion  is  made  to  the  other  bearings 
of  tne  familv,  yet  I  cannot  find  any  record  of  the 
family  ever  navbg  home  the  arms  stated  in  the 
MS.  I  can  only  suppose  my  theory  to  be  the 
most  probable  one,  t.  «.,  that  these  anus  were 
grautM  by  the  exiled  Stuart  Idnga  to  Basil  More, 
who  went  into  exile  with  thom  at  St.  Qermaias; 


and  that  the  MS.  being  excliudvely  of  Roman 
Catholic  fumitiea  who  adhered  to  the  fallen  dv- 
nul?,  would  not  recognise  the  coat  latiBed  by  ths 
herudsof  tbe  heretic  monarchs,  more  than  it  does 
those  members  of  Ihu  same  family  who  "dege- 
nerated from  the  religion  of  their  ancestors,"  and 
"" "!--■"  ^-  jgg  estimation  of  the  direct 


I  have  never  been  able  entirely  to  discard  tbo 
pedigree  ascribed  to  Sir  Thomas  Mora  in  tliat 
curionA  book  by  Thomas  de  EeeoUerB  de  la  More, 
Bflrrister  of  Gmy's  Inn,  published  in  London  is 
1649,  where  he  makes  him  deeoeod  from — 

"  Lanrentius  de  la  More,  qni  erat  in  eierdtn  Willidnii 
Bastanll  Re^  in  ConqaMla  sao  Regni  Angliz,  and  Sir 
Thomu  de  Is  More,  Knight,  who  was  a  conrtiei  in  the 
reigns  of  Edward  the  First,  Second,  and  Third,  and  was  ■ 
8etvant(and  wrote  the  Ufe)  of  King  Edward  the  Swsood." 

I  do  not  see  why  this  is  not  as  likely  to  be 
corrsct  as  the  tradition  which  Cresacre  More  moi- 
tions,  AS  "having beard"  that  (his  family)  "either 
came  out  of  the  Mores  of  Ireland,  or  Qiey  came 
out  of  us  " ;  for,  as  be  says,  "Although  by  reason 
of  King  Kent's  auzure  of  all  our  evidences,  we 
cannot  certainly  tel!  who  were  Sir  John's  ances- 
tors, yet  must  tiiey  needs  be  gentlemen."  That 
they  did  not  come  out  of  the  Mores  of  Ireland  lb 
clear,  as  the  families  he  alludes  to  did  not  settle 
in  Ireland  till  after  the  chancellor's  death,  and  in 
the  other  case,  which  is  not  improbable,  it  would 
in  no  way  militate  against  the  pedigree  above 
stated,  whether  the  writer  was,  as  he  calls  hims^, 
H  grandson,  or  any  more  remote  descendant  of 
tbe  illustrious  chancellor.  Will  Me,  Wkishi  or 
some  of  the  Gentlemen  who  have  turned  their 
thoughts  to  the  histoty  of  this  great  man,  lend 
m'e  their  aswstance  in  unriddling  the  mystery 
attached  to  his  ancestry  ?  C.  T.  J.  Moobg. 

Frampton  Hall,  near  Boston. 

Leiob  Hitnt's  "The  Months,"  etc.  (4*  S. 
vi,  106,  246.)— "Die  most  observing  writers  have 
oftMi  made  most  serious  mistakes  aa  regards  the 
proper  time  of  the  annual  or  exact  appearance  of 
cerwn  flowers,  serving  their  purpose  in  a  poem 
or  work  of  fiction.  Not  all  are  so  careful  asQoethe, 
who,  in  his  Sori-ova  of  Waier,  pves  almost  th« 
exact  day  of — 

"...  the  Ume,  the  odorons  Lime. 
With  tasKls  of  gold  and  leaves  so  green,"  * 
being  in  its  full  beauty  at  dear  little  WaiUieim, 
I  remember  (but  cannot  lay  hands  on  the  vidume 
in  question)  Sir  John  Barrow  in  his  Aatobioffra^ty 
speaking  of  a  mountain-ash  (Sorbta  auaiparia,h.) 
in  his  native  home  bein^  covered  witb  its  hand- 
soDie  shiniuK  scarlet  bemes  in  the  month  of  June, 
And  in  Scotland,  too,  where  this  could  never  take 
place  before  the  end  of  August    Of  modem  En|f- 


'  FiancUBeDPoCb,b.lS12. 


Sic 


4*  S.  Til.  UAncn  l; 


XOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


lish  writers  of  pocfry  and  fiction,  ladies  as  a  rule 
pay  greater  attention  to  this  kind  of  tiiinz  than 
the  "strong  sex"  (with  the  exception  of  the  ail- 
observing  Wordsworth  of  course) ;  and  of  the 
Ibnner,  "George  Eliot "(I  am  just  thinking  of 
her  descriptions  of  the  hedgerows  in  Adam  Bade) 
seema  to  me  the  most  acute.  The  remarks  of 
the  graceful  Caroline  Bowles  will  verify  mj  own 
lem&rk.  HeBitAJin  KnroT. 

AflHBirBNESS  OF  FmuTESS  (4"'  S.  vi.  411,  682 ; 
Tii.  131.)— With  respect  to  que^  5,  p.  413,  list 
Tolume,  a  correspondent  of  the  Uloerston  Adoer- 
tuer  has  supplied  the  following  ;— 

••TheKev.  W.  Aihbnrnetwuthg  aon  oTGeo.  Aabbai^ 
ner  of  Scales,  Low  Funiesg,  and  was  baptised  at  Alding- 
hun  Church  on  the  5th  of  JaDoary,  1763;  hia  father. 
Geo.  Aahbnraer  (son  of  John  Ash  bamer  of  Aid  ioghaia  ),wu 
bap^sed  at  the  wme  cbnnh  on  Jsns  13tb,  178!.  Further 
Eesearch  at  AldiDghiun  chnich  and  Dallon  church  would, 
no  doabt,  bring  farther  partioulani  reapecting  other  mem- 
ben  of  the  bmilf  of  Aahbamera  to  light." 

The  writer  of  this  believes  himself  to  be  de- 
scended from  the  William  and  Thomas  Ashbumer 
of  Dublin  mentioned  by  the  correspondent  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  in  the  article  published  about  Novem- 
ber last,  and  would  be  glad  to  communicate  with 
the  said  correspondent,  under  cover  of  address, 
"J.  E.  R.,  AdveHi»er  Office,  Ulveiston,  North 
Lancashire."  J.  B.  B. 

I  regret  I  have  not  had  time  to  thank  your 
courteous  correspondents  earlier  for  the  informa- 
tioD  they  have  already  kindly  given  me.  I  be- 
lieve a  moiety  of  the  advowson'  of  Unwick  at  one 
time  belonged  to  the  family.  Of  course  it  would 
he  very  interesting  to  trace  the  forefathers  of  the 
Aldingham  Ashbumera  as  far  back  as  possible. 
Although  there  is  no  certain  place  at  present  in 
the  pedigree  for  them,  some  nirther  informntion 
«oufd  no  doubt  fix  the  particular  branch  to  which 
they  belong.  It  is  highly  probable  that  the  Bev. 
Wm.  Ashbumer's  line  was  always  regarded  by 
the  Paddock  Hall  Aehbumen  as  being  their  near 
hinsmeo,  and  I  think  it  wiU  be  found  that  they 
come  from  Francis  of  Frith  in  Cartmell,  the 
brother  of  Thomaa  of  Paddock  Hall,  temp.  Car.  U. 
T,  IlEiaDr. 

fRiittU^nteut. 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  ETC. 

Tola  *f  Old  Japan.    Bf  A.  B.  Mllford,  Second  Secre- 

tiTv.  of  the  British  Legation  in  Japan.   Iti  Too  Volunia, 

with  lUnitratiota  dram  and  cut  on  Wood  -iy  JaparUie 

Ariiitt.    (Uacmillan.) 

Strikirie  and  characlcriBtic  ai  are  the  lUiutrations  of 
the  woik  before  ua,  wblcb,  deslgued  hj  a  Japanoe  artist, 
have  been  cut  on  wood  by  a  fiimous  wood-engraTer  at 
Tedo,  they  are  not  onB  whit  mora  go  than  are  the  1q- 
cidcDta  in  these  tale*  from  the  I^nd  of  Sniuln  which 
tbey  are  intended  to  repreNnt.  The  ver;  flnt  story  in 
«b<  book,  that  of  "The  Forty-Hven  Bdnins,"  exhibits  a 
idctnre  of  devotion  on  the  part  of  bis  retaioers  towards 
tbdr  lendal  lord— and  be  It  temeiiibered  that  the  story 


barbi 


injury  the  neighbour 


■B  the  ii 


igedy 


nt  and  protect  fi 
,  which  IS  essectially 
And  when  we  fitid.  as  we  do 
from  Mr.  Uitford,  that  the  old  civilization  of  Japan  is 
fast  disappearing  before  the  new  ideas  which  the  inl«r- 
le  of  the  Inst  eleven  years  with  the  weatem  races  bus 
iotrodnced  into  the  coan^ry,  we  feel  that  that  genllemaa 
idered  good  service  by  these  translationa  of  a 
selection  of  the  moat  interesting  national  Wnds  and 
traditions.  In  these  tales,  wi£  the  ezceptioD  of  the 
Emperor  aad  bis  Court — respecting  whom  Ur.  Milfoiil 
could  find  DO  tales  in  which  they  played  a  conspicuous 

rrt,  and  the  exception  is  a  remarkable  one — every  class 
Japan,  the  lord  and  his  retainer,  the  warrior  and  the 
priest,  tho  humble  artisan  and  d(«pised  Eta  or  pariah, 
all  tell  their  own  tales,  and  describe  themselves  in  a  way 
whieb  brings  their  social  condition  and  coarse  of  life  far 
more  vividly  before  the  reader  than  could  be  obtained 
perhaps  In  any  other  mode :  while  the  baokgroonds  of 
the  pictures  are  filled  np  with  iuddental  aUosIous  to 
marmen  and  customs,  the  arrangements  of  the  houEehald, 
the  fbnns  of  worship,  the  dlvisiotis  of  the  dav,  the  natural 
history  of  tho  country,  and  Innumerable  little  touches 
illnstiatlve  of  Japanese  life  and  manners — which  give  a 
completeness  to  the  work,  and  make  it  what  we  iMlieve 
it  to  be,  by  far  the  most  striking,  instructive,  and  authen- 
tic book  upon  Japan  and  the  Japanese  which  has  ever 
been  lud  before  the  English  reader. 

Diary  of  tfe  Ewbaay  from  £119  GtoT^  ofBo/umda  to 
Eing  Louii  XI.  of  France.  fVoiB  a  ennltmporarj/ 
ManiaCTWt,  littrally  tramlated  fnm  tkt  original  Sla- 
vonic. By  A.  H.  Wiatislaw,  M.A.,  &o.  (Bell  &. 
Daldy.) 

George  of  Bohemia,  r^arded  «a  the  wisest  Itatesmsn 
of  his  day  in  Europe,  having  declined  to  render  obedience 
to  the  Papal  See  In  certain  mattera,  endeavonred  to  bring 
about  a  conncil  of  crowned  beads  with  the  view  of  al- 
laying the  confusion  existing  in  Europe,  and  of  restraining 
and  regulating  the  encroaching  spirit  of  the  Boman 
Curia.     For  Hiis  purpose  ha  dwipatched  an  embassy  to 


e  book  is 
a  very  curious  Diary  it  (s.     It  would 
•--•  ■"  -  ■"    ■    '  of  the 


e  so,  bat  that  the 


JealoQsy  1 
isages  troi 


have  ted  to  the  abstraction  of  the  original  M3.  from 
archives  of  Budweis  in  Bohemia,  where  it  was  formerlv 
preserved,  but  where  it  is  no  longer  to  be  found.  Still  the 
book  prejents  many  curious  pictures  of  social  life,  and 
half  an  hour  may  be  spent  very  pleasantly  in  its  perusal. 
Books  rkcbived.— TVanmclimj  nflke  Hiitorical  So- 
ciely  0/  Grcal  Britain,  Vol.  I.,  Fart  I.  (Printed  for  the 
Society),  contains  several  interesting  papers,  among 
which  we  would  notice  that  by  Mr,  Bond  "  On  the  Chria- 
rian  Era."— Sir  John  Bowring's  Latin  Aphorimu  and 
Preverbi,  vertified  by  ShrAetpeart ;  and  Dr.  Roger's  Me- 
mmr  and  Potrm  of  Sir  SobiTl  Aytonn.—The  I&rald  and 
GeTteahgist,  ty  John  Uough  mcbols,  F.S.A..  Part 
XXX  VI.  (Echols),  coot  BJna,  among  other  papers  of  great 
value  and  interest,  one  on  "  Royal  Descents  of  Peer%"  by 
the  late  Lord  Fainham,  which  is  foUoired  by  a  Memoir 
ofthat  able  and  accomplished  QobIenMl.—71i«jBd9jlin>nn; 
m  Hhatrated  Liierary  and  BibHoarmiical  JZiRev,  Part 
XIL,  for  IS70.  Our  readers  wtll  ahara  our  ngret  tbat 
owing  to  the  Ut«  horrid  war,  this  number  which  com-  . 
[detes  the  fifth  voiume  closes  this  carious  and  Instmetivt  I  (] 
_.j_ii_.i   .1..  __i .,...  ij  excluslvaJy  devoted  te 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


[4'»  S.  VII.  MiBCB  11, 71. 


Tbb  pnbliibiDg  flrma  of  London  have  juat  lot  tiro 
wen  known  and  most  rapocted  membcn  of  that  bodr, 
Mr.  Henry  Blackelt,  of  the  firm  of  Hnnt  A  BUckott 
of  Qreat  Matlbomngh  Street,  died  on  Monday  last 
from  an  attack  of  apoplexy,  la  his  foiij-Stth  year.  I' 
Sampaon  Loir,  Jon.,  irhoM  name  was  well  known 
GonitfctioD  wiu  man^philantbropic  ia9tiCatioDa,andwha 
wis  not  only  a  publuber  bnt  an  antbor— as  his  aeeTol 
Acctmnl  of  the  Itrmdon  Charities,  ^eqaently  Tcprinted, 
amply  t«atiSaa — died  on  Sunday  last,  agtd  for^-r-  -'- ' 
alter  many   yean  of  Buffering   borne  with  Chi 


AnroOKAMia,— The  rollowinK  are  the  prices  of  a  few 
of  the  more  importaat  lata  which  bave  been  recently 
«old  by  Messrs.  Futtick  and  Simpson: — Lot  16,  Kin^c 
Edward  IV.  and  bin  brother,  when  thirteen  years  of 
»BtjS2l. ;  68,  Correspondence  relating  to  the  Marriage 
«f  Charln  I.  and  Henrietta  MaiJa,  9f. ;  93,  A  Siguatni- 
<rf  OUrer  Cromwell,  8£.  li.;  118,  Queen  Eliiabeth,  sigDi 
tnreonTellam,  S/.  ISi.;  160,  LetterofHeniy  Hammond, 
the  eminent  Divine.  61. ;  236  to  £44,  Nine  Letters  of  Lord 
ITelsoo,  SH.;  "iM,  VolIair^  luened  in  fhll,  iL  ISlj  307 
to  809,  Three  Letters  of  John  Wesley,  91.  I8», 

Thk  Arnasxtjit  baa  the  following  :  — Hr.  E.  Brock' 
le^edltion  of  tlie  fine  alliteratlTO  poem  of  ■■  Uorte  Arthore' 
Is  nearly  ready  for  the  Earl^  English  Text  Society. 

The  Brd  Bivrr  Ezpeditiok. — Mecan.  Maomillan 
A  Co.  will  shortly  publisii  a  "  Narratire  of  the  Rod 
River  Expedition,^  by  Captain  Hayshe^  who  accom- 
panied the  ezpeditioa  in  the  capacity  irf  prirata  secrstary 
to  the  commander,  Col.  Sir  Garnet  Wolsley. 

AmbricamBoohs.— Inlheyear  I870,2,004new  book^ 
Inclnding  new  editions,  were  pablished  in  the  United 
States.  1,250  were  original  American  works,  682  were 
reprints  of  English  books,  and  172  were  translations  or 
reprinta  of  foreign  t>ooka.  Classified  according  to  snb- 
jects,  264  beloDgcd  to  theolog}-,  836  to  Action,  161  to  law, 
88  to  arts,  sciences,  and  fine  arts  ;  S3  to  trade,  commerce, 
politics;  54  to  traTel  and  Beographical  rcaaarch,  16C  to 
liiltoty  and  biOKTspby,  1'22  to  poetry  and  the  drama,  112 
tonudidne  and  sargery.  111  were  edncational  iiorta,  60 
were  annnals,  233  were  juvenile  works,  180  ware  miseel- 
neons  woAs. — SartpKm  Loic't  MonMu  BtiSttin, 
Tlie  Pott  san :— We  hear  that  Sir  Robert  Peel  has  sold 


Chapeso  de  PaUIe,"  and  a  namber  of  other  chtfi- 
(fmnrrt,  to  the  nation.  The  Government  have  become 
purchasers  at  a  price  of  some  70,CKK)/. — a  figure  which 


doea credit  to  Sir  Robert  Peel's  liberality,.-, 
hare  commanded  far  more  money  at  Cbriatii 
purchase  will      -    •■  •    ■   •■     »   .    - 


. disturb  Ur.  iJowe's  Budget,  as  the 

of  the  National  Gallery  have  9,00DA  Inliand  from 

last  year,  and  with  this  their  annoal  anb^?  of  lO/WOi. 

-  year  will  enable  tbem  eadly  to  make  -" 


civilisation  St.  Albans  w 


in  former  time^  will  bear  with  deep  i 


it  thet 


venerable  abbey  as  to  render  imperative  immediate  steps 
jbr  its  preservation.  It  is  said  that  to  do  this  effectually 
DO  lees  a  sum  than  40.0001.  will  be  required.  But  the 
state  of  the  tower  r^uiring  instant  attention,  a  preli- 
minary meetiog  of  gentlemen  connected  with  Hertford- 
shire bas  been  held  at  Lord  Vemlam's,  and  a  subscription 
•tttared  into  to  defray  the  expenses  of  sacnring  the  safety 
of  that  Important  part  oF  the  abbey. 


BOOKS    AND    ODD   VOLUMES 
WiXTED  10  FUBCHASB. 


■»  or  AKUHT  BniLDnasrv  CeamaT'liaMt 


J.  F.  SlrralM^.  IV  tTpcm  BivA  SI«L  LmltB,  W. 
lOid]'  if  qalU  ctou  ud  j|ntel.l 


Buir  Sou  Bwlu. 

Print!  br  Buikrlutif.  Ri _.,  .„„  _.„ 

FunrmlUDrlnrfDadltriDdWud.    ini>,*tl 

r  Xemas.  Ainhnrt  Bead. 


£oti»x  ta  Con-r^iiatittniU. 

CnOCB   THE   ALLBOED   CS!TTE(AIIIAr>.  — /■    Ihl    ttett 

mhich  at  appauttd  (o  Mr.  Pole  C'iiew's  proof  that 
CoHch  looM^oand  tut  no  (auti,  p.  300),  me  omitted  the 
none  of  the  lAip  on  boon!  oftMch  he  ntered  mhes  nine- 
Itat  vtart  of  age  »  Jiau,  1794.  It  wu  the  Bienfaisant, 
»AicA  uof  eommittiotwd  in  that  year. 

Maerocubir  mltfiadlhe  eonpiet— 
"Who  makes  the  quartern  loaf  and  Luddites  rise? 
'    Who  fllia  the  bntcbers'  shops  with  Urge  blue  flics  t  " 
■M  the  Rejected  Addrrtttt. 

W.  G.  Stohe.— "Baitem  Siory  "  wHl  befoatid  luutBertd 
_- _   i»i       i^_.  ^_   »_..     ..  licipattdj  but  wt 

rmd  "  naraer  "  I  line  2, '/or  "  voice  "  nod  "  vole  "  ;  p.  198, 
eol.  ii.line28,/or"Diogeuos'aLaar'(i»u"rHirf"Diog«nBa 


the  Voiee.ThTaU.and  C^A.    aU  fuSBnM  frvra  BnnuJilllB.  Hu 

CDD2ti,  ud  dBprlTfttloti  Df  nA  ihouLd  (Aki  tbcm— hnndml*  vou 

ioA  oulch  ieU«r"^   Dr.  Lotttd'i  Wiitan  »pld]r  flurt  uthnu,  dd 

nBipUon,  conslu,  uid  all  dlnrdcn  of  Uis  teraU,  tanAL  mwl  luita 


*- 3.  Til.  March  11, 71.]  NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


THE    OI>D    DRAMATISTS 
THE   OLD   POETS. 

THOItAB  CAMPBEU.  I     Tlio   REV.   «LE1 

wnajAMonroRD.  ti^^'v.  henry  todd, 

aABTLBT  COLBRIDaG.        |  AndOUun. 


U  U4  VIpiBlW  I  EdllM.  vlll 
Tlio   REV.   ALEXAITDER 


BEAUMONT  and  FLETCHER.    2  vols,  Z2t. 

HASSINGEB  and  FOBD.     16*. 

BEN  JONSON.    I6t. 

WYCHERLEy,  CKINaBETE,  VANBBUSH,  and 

TXBttVBAR.    Ml. 

QREENE  and  PEELE.     16*. 
SHAKESPEARE.    With  Bates  by  Johk  Qiusbt, 

JOHN  WEBSTER.     I2». 
CHRISTOPHER  MARLOWE,  12.. 


The  Old  Foets. 
SPENSEE.    10$.  ed.         I    DRYDEN.    10«.  M. 
CHAUCER.    \0i.6d.       I    POPE.    10*.  6i^ 


E  sotnxEDOE  k  sons.  ti 


E 


ORIQIH    AND    HISTORY     OF    "IRISH 


vols.  lU,  and  lY.  of  HEB  HAJESIT'S 
TOWES. 

B7  W.  HEPWOBTH  DIXON. 
'  Mr.  Dliim'i  UnlT  tni  Humla  work."— Rwh 
-  ThU  tuok  ii  IbonoililT  lUaoUsf ,  nil  wiUtcs,  ud  I^MUn." 

SXART  of  the  BEfOEaED  RESIDEirr  in 
IXFBESSIONS  of  GREECE.     By  tlie  Rt. 


m 


ULL  and  EAST  Y0EB3HIBE.  —  BOOKS  and 

f ,  printed  Id.  a  nlsdnff  to.  thli  DMrlol.  mAr  b«  rtportal 


S   CONSERVATIVE   BENEFIT   BUILDINQ 

— w —  «4  mvLJUtt  ftw  ftU  al—ti  of  the  nmmiuiltr.  FIti  ptr  cent. 
Intflwt  nr  ajuuid  PAid  oa  tlunf,  ud  Itnu-  per  ceqt  per  umcuii  m 
dnodt^mutBHnt,  with  power  of  wItbdnWMj  ftt  Aied  period*. 
TTie  PMITEP  I-mP  COMFANT  (LlnilB^.  wwBmUiig  wllli  Ilia 

i,  ud  BoildlBt  De- 


HORjE  LUCAN.£  ;  a  Biographv  of  Saint  Luke, 
ttaaOentUeEnnieUH.    Br  H.  bIuUBL  BASm B. 


'PHE  BOOKWOEM :  a  Litorarj  and  BibliorarapMeal 

JL    BiTlew,  Edited  ud  IllDHnted  tiT  J.  PR.  BER^ElO.li  now 
,-_.._  .1 .... — . •  No.  It  «■  the  rmi  md  iMl  Volmne. 


I,  Brrdcf*  Street.  Co 


OOKS  ON  AMERICA.— In  tho  press  (20O  pases 

uv,  LondHI- 

twe  tibdh^ndUli « 


The  C^ilesH  will  be 


E! 


'OTICK  — The     Hon.    Mbs.    Piaoir-CABisTON'a 


NOTICE— FAIR  PASSIONS.    A  New  Hovel.    By 
Ob  HON.  UBS.  PIOOTI-CAEI.ETON.    3  tqU,    Now  leadT- 


Dd  bouitirul  pItlH, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 
UNITES    OENEBAL    IKDEZ. 

Now  B«ad7,  price  IBi.  boards,  containiae  Indexes  to 
Firet,  Second,  and  Ttdrd  Series,  1849-1 867,  Troond  In  Ona 
Tolnme,  facilily  of  reference  being  secured  by  haTing 
the  «dgea  differently  coloared,  ae  la  the  Post-Office 
Directory. 


d  by  Google 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[l'»S.VII.  UiBciill,7l. 


"W^DEBBE 


IheOPENINa  of  PARLIAMENT,  1871, 


qiO  PORTRAIT 

JL    hum  rtdaeti  the  dHi 


COLLECTORS.— ,IoH 


ad  PrinlKllD,  li,  EIna'i  FIui,  CI 


Stbnsom 


THE   NEW   VELIiUM-WOVE   CLTJB- 
H0TI8B  PAPEB. 


"*  Tlu  prodDcdon 


'  tiaiOaSrimA  bcei  (IB 
"—1..  PURBID. 


PARTBIDOE    ANS    COOFEB, 

MANDFACTDRniQ  STATIONERS, 
192,  Fleet  Street  (Comer  of  CTiancery  Lme). 


BLACE-BORDBBXD  SOTE.  41.  ud  Ii.  bL  Mr  mm. 
BLACE-BORDBRBD  EHTBLOPES,  li.  so  in-Snior  thid 
TINTE1>  liTHKT>NOTB,ftr  Hoai  or  TonitaCormpooit 

COLOUSED  BTAKFINO  (IteUcn.  ntaHd  In  ti.  M.  rd 
Ha.  td,  per  IM>.  PollibEd  SihI  Cmt  INii  ninftd 

MDmwTUlMwp  jcUen,  frdUB  U.i  Uu«*  lBtt«4,  from  7«> 

GBItHOKFApeR.pUn.u.per»iniItsM  ditto.  <>-*d. 


SS" 


n  Boin  WiIUdi  cuah  fi 


"OtO  ENQLI8H"   FURNITURE. 


(bat  Uie  artlTu  Uuresn  mMiiI>uutnsnUuiTelnniHinil  tnutr. 
A  utcl  lei  cui  be  UKd  updo  It  wllh  the  kldU^  cf  ■  aoMt  i|iUH,  end 
"'S'^'O  crest  norca  of  viDojuaee  Ua  been  noiplctalr  tOTKr^td. 


G" 


j§  ud  BAKNins, 


tnd  EUBLEUATiatL 


SAUCE.— LEA    AND    PEKRINS. 


"  THE  ONLY  6001>  BArCH." 
ImpnTH  Uh  iiiiftlt*  ud  lUi  dlceitloii. 

uitBiTAu.xi>  roR  pniuAiicT  and  flatodk. 
Aak  for  "I.BA  AND  PBBBinS'"  SAUCE. 
BEWARE     OP    IMITATIONS, 

•HUuKunaarLEA  AKDFERRINSagiU  tuHIaudliitidf, 
Amitb-CROSSB  *  BLACK  WELL. 


lOB,  FLEET  STREET,  E.C,    EsUblished  1782. 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANGING8. 


COLLIKBOn'  and  LOOK  (late  Horring). 

DECOBATOBS, 
109,  FLEET  STREET.  LONDON,   Estiblished  1782, 


DIGESTION.--THE  MEDICAI.  PROFESSION 


CHUBB'S  NEW  PATENT  SAEES. 

STEEL  PLATED,  with   Dingonnl  Bolts,  to  resist 
Wedsa.  IMIli.  ud  Fin. 
CaiTBB'S    PATBITT     SETECTOK     ftOCKB, 

WrIllLi  BuEh 

IRON    DOORS    FOR    STRONa   E003IS. 
llltutratid  Prixi  Liilt  Gratii  and  Pett-Frtt. 

CHOBB  and  SON, 

bT.St-F&DrjCttuTchjbrd. London]  : 


roaEPH    GILLOTT'S    8TEEL    PENS. 


LAHFIOUOH'S 
FTBETIC    SAIIHE 

Hu  veenlloi  tut  nmukiU*  prMHla  li  HtedHlii,  Sn.  or  BU<i»a 
BiAatm.  pnmtinr  uid  corlDf  Bmr,  BcuZat,  ltd  M^r  renn,  and  li 
tdaaWed  jg  nU  nun  to.to^Tli*  moit  ■ptUttte.  m^  tlHUaln^ 


a .  t/AHf LODOB,  lU,  Htltan  HUl,  L 


DOi^lC 


*»8.Tii.iLiBoHi8,7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


229 


lOSDOir,  OATUXDAT,  MAXCH  la.lBII. 


Propriatonblp  in  Ben  Jomoo'i  Hor^fao- 

¥unoal  CiutoDH,  SSI  —  SwIm  Bprii«  Sods,  lb.  —  John 
DlPcr— Bmovbh  of  feoA  Church  BcsMer— BMb  SUte- 
menta  -  H8.  Notei  on  Rf -InTM  -  "  Well-nigh  "  for 
"Almoit":  "Once  «iia»eii&i"— "Bother  Bed  C»p"  — 
'Woidiwonh:  CDDiM>le,ile.— OnrtD(unri)pheer~Wld 
Fruits  in  Qennuj,  ess. 
QUXBIBS:  —  AlbUdr  ud  AmandeTllle  —  Arandel  ud 
Aruodello— Hordeal  O1117  — Anne  (Cbapnun)  Ktilttht- 
ler  —  Hrs.  UiiT  Cborchlll — Lord  Duttlw  and  Wanl,  ITM 
—  Willl»m  Penwlek,  Huor  gf  Hull  —  OcrowD  Prtnoo  — 
"God's  Babr,"  — Good  BIr  uid  Itau-  Sir  — Unea  On  the 

TO T.._  _  Heorre  Loudon  —  MsceulM'i  ■■-"—'- 

■  -  °'  '-'--      "aining  0^=1(1 


Medkal  Order  oT  Bt.  Jofaa  —  Hmnlw  of  ■^Bccsrine"— 
PiiDl  r.  uid  theV<-nettiui-Plpe  ltnU,BB(«>lieD-Piiiiofa- 
■   ""      "  '  —      ~   |«af  8alkdd-»cUa  r 


Udle  of  George  III.'— Br^( 
Borne  Honey  —  Tdldp's  ■'l ..  _. 
—  Woodcut  iDtHel  Letten,  2U. 


-•VirgH" 


0  Boyne : 

-Lancuhire  Wltobea 


mboroufh'i  "Blaa  Boy/"  S3T  —  Britlih 
IT  Hn.Herkbsm.MO-'rheCcHDpletloii 
edra],  HI— BIr  WUIlua  Boger.  Knt..  £42— 


-  Dr.  Joh 


BBPLIBB:  —  OeJnibi 
Sc:ttbedClwTkiter  h... 

ofBt.l>Uil1Cath«]ra],L_    ... , 

EoKlUh  Descent  ofntnlelO'CiHineU,/..      

WaUb  —  Stamp  on  Picture  Csnvss— BtUls  -  Crutches - 
Bleoampine—  Book  Omunentation  —  Ia  Ctewxda  — Whi 
IsaLairdr  — "Though  losltoBlftht.t- "- 


Badger  — CobblenfLupps  In  IMli— -Oil 

Mumment  Walts— "BlUrion'iBervanf.the  BaceCrov" 
— Mural  Mntlm  In  Stanton  Cbureh,  Norfolk-A  Black- 
counli?  Lfgend,  Ac,  243. 
Jiotrt  on  Bookn.  A«. 


fiattt. 

A  LETTEE  OF  EDWAED  IV. 
Among  a  collection  of  autogrnpliB  recentlj  sold 
by  Memrs.  Puttick  &  Simpson  was  one  documetit 
that  will  certoinlj  posBesB  some  iaterest  fur  my 
future  hiBtoriftn  of  the  Wnn  of  the  Koses.  It 
profesBeA  to  be  s  letter  from  Edwud  IV.,  then 
fairl  of  March,  and  hia  brother  the  Earl  of  Rut- 
iaod,  written  on  December  10. 1460,  within  three 
creeks  before  the  battle  of  Wakefield,  in  which 
the  latter  was  slain ;  and  ao  greatlj  was  its 
cnriotdtj  esteemed  bv  the  sellers,  that  it  is  tran- 
Bcribed  at  full  length,  although  with  some  inac- 
cutaciee,  in  the  aafe  catalognie.  It  was  sold  for 
thirtr-two  pounds.  As  it  has  not  been  secured 
bj  the  Bntiah  Museum,  and  there  are  several 

Flints  in  cotmection  with  it  that  suggest  inquiry, 
beg  leave  to  send  you  a  more  accurate  copy  than 
that  in  the  auctioneers'  catalogue:— 

7^  EarU  0/  Utareh  and  Ratlatid  to  Iht  Date  af  Milan. 
••  UlastrlsMme  Princepii  et  ETceDentlMimB  Domine,  poat 
officioeas  salotationes.  Ex  relatione  apectabilis  et  gene- 
nai  viri,  domini  Antonii  da  Tniri,  Rq^  Majestatis 
□ostnc  nontii  et  armieeri.  inlelli-ximna  de  honoriQCCDUa 
et  gratitudina  llli  cxhibita  pro  revecentla  Uhcto  R^ln 
Hajestatis  et  etiam  cespecta  □ostio,  ac  etlam  de  Tavore 
cibi  prBttito  in  Romana  Curia  apnd  Pontlfloem  Maxi- 
mata  pro  nostris  votla  et  bonestis  desideriis  ImpetrindiB, 
et  de  slngnUri  carilate  at  benevolentia  quam  ad  dds  et 
Btatam  nostnun  Excellentia  vestia  gerit,  pro  qniboa 
*  -B  Excalli    ■■  ■  '  "    ' 


tUmoT-    Et  qnoniam  nralta  « 


jam  cnpimns  revelari,  idea  roadero  domimui]  Antoninm 
dnximus  remlttendum  ad  Sanctiaeimiim  Dominnm  nos- 
tmm  Papam  et  vestiam  Excellentliun  de  intentione  ac 
deslderiia  nostris  pleuisdme  iuTDnaatDTn.  Quo  drca 
n^amoa  E.  veetram  Excelleu  tiam  ut  illnm  more  eno  solito 
gratioge  Basdpial  et  andiat  ac  pleuam  Uli  fidem  aditibeat, 
et  per  oujideEc  reapondere  dignetur.  Speramus  In  Domino 
et  in  Tirtnto  Reveiendijsinii  Etomini  L^ati  Apostolici 
apad  no6  eiistentigi  cajni  status  com  noatiis  fortunia 
est  conjanctus,  quod  rerum  nostraium  successus  erit 
^orioaas  aicnt  idem  domiuDS  Antouiut,  lator  ptBsentinm, 
latiua  explicebit.  Valeat  Excdieutia  vestra,  ad  coiuB 
bfloeplaclla  parati  Bamiia.  Dalnm  Loudouiie,  die  x.  De- 
cembris  ucccclx. 

"  EiceUenUffi  Teatrte  amid  et  consangulnei 
Ednordna  Marchis  et  Edmnndns  Bathn- 
landiffl  Comites,  filii  illuatrlsaimi  Priudpis 
Bioaidi,  verl,  Juati,  et  legitimi  hsredis 
regnomm  Anglla  et  Fraiicia!,ac  Dominii 
H;bermc,  Duds  Eborac),  etc. 

"  E.  Uabco,       E.  RiTTLoim." 
[Addressed] — "  Illaatriatiina  et  Excellentiasimo   Do- 
mino, Domino  Francisco  Sfortte  TicecomiU  etc.  Dnci 
Mediolani,  indylo  amioo  noalro  honorando." 

[Endoraed] — "  Dominomm  oonailio  ad  Dncem  Medio- 

It  would  be  veiT  dearable  that  some  infomia< 
tion  could  be  obtained  about  the  pedigree  of  this 
document.  On  the  first  blush  there  appear  some 
reasons  for  questioning  its  autheutid^.  For  one 
thing,  it  contradicts  the  received  historical  ac- 
count as  contained  in  Hall,  according  to  which 
the  Duke  of  York  left  London  with  his  son, 
the  Earl  of  Rutland,  on  December  2 — that  ia  to 
say,  eight  days  before  this  letter  was  written, 
and  tat  to  his  other  son,  the  Earl  of  March,  to 
follow  him  into  the  North.  Both  of  these  sons 
had  been  with  him  in  Parliament  on  October  31 
(see  BolU  of  Fm-l.  t.  379) ;  but  since  that  dw  it 
would  appear  that  Edward  must  have  left  Lon- 
don,  and  we  know  from  Hall  that  the  news  of 
his  father's  death  at  Wakefield,  on  December  31, 
reached  him  at  Gloucester,  from  which  place  he 
then  removed  to  Sbrewsburj,  and  was  still  not 
far  from  the  Welsh'  border  when  he  fought  the 
battle  of  Mortimer's  Cross  on  February  2.  More- 
over there  are  some  things  in  the  style  of  the 
document  which  might  reasonably  be  regarded 
with  suspidon.  "Ke^ie  Maiestatis  nostne"  is, 
to  say  the  least,  a  very  singular  eipression  to  be 
used  by  either  Mareh  or  Rutland  at  a  time  when 
Heni](  VI.  was  acknowledged  as  king  even  by 
their  lather. 

If  the  document  is  genuine,  I  should  be  dis- 
posed to  say  that  it  must  have  been  drawn  tip 
in  the  name  of  Henry  VI.,  although  dgned  by ' 
the  two  eails,  who  had  the  king  practically  in 
their  power ;  and  yet  the  language  a  little  further 
on  seems  hardly  consstent  even  with  this  view  of 
the  case.  The  eipreseionB  "  pro  reverentia  Sacne 
Regis  Majestfttis  et  etiam  respectu  nostro,"  ao- 
co^ing  to  anv  ordinary  interpretation,  surely 
imply  that  the  letter  was  not  to  be  subscribed  by 


230 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.         [i-'s.vii.  m*bchI8.7 


the  kinft,  bnt  bj  some  other  person*.  Id  short, 
I  see  Dothing  for  it  but  to  acknowledge  thsit  the 
-writers  -partly  identified  thenuelveH  -with  the  king, 
and  ;et  allowed  themselres  in  one  place  to  speak 
of  the  king  iia  a  third  person. 

From  ^ese  circumstances  no  'one  will  be  sur- 
prised to  hear  that  very  strong  BuapicioUB  have 
Deen  entertained  as  to  the  authenticity  of  this 
document,  or,  at  all  GTents,  of  the  subscription 
and  ugnatures.  There  is,  however,  something  to 
be  said  on  the  other  ude  in  favour  of  its  genuine- 
ness. A,  letter  -very  much  the  same  in  substance 
was  certainly  written  by  Henry  VL  to  the  pope 
on  the  very  day  on  which  this  letter  was  dated. 
A  contemporaneous  copy  of  it  is  pieserved  in  tbi 
archives  of  Milan,  and  -will  be  ^und  noticed  ii 
Mr.  Rawdon  Brown's  Calaidar  rf  Vtnetian  Slate 
Fi^ert.  Id  this  letter,  as  in  the  document  under 
consideration,  Antonius  de  Turn,  or  della  Torre, 
is  spoken  of  as  "  our  envoy,"  aa  an  ambassador  of 
Henry  VI.,  who  had  been  lately  seat  to  the  pope. 
had  returned,  and  was  about  to  be  despatchea 
agaiD — although,  aa  we  find  from  Mr.  Brown's 
CaieHdar,  the  critical  situadoD  of  a(fiurs  iDduced 
him  to  remain  in  London  for  at  least  a  month 
longer,  that  he  mi^ht  be  able  to  report  the  issue 
of  events.  There  is  aUo  in  both  letters  a  refer- 
ence to  Coppint,  bishop  of  Tenuno,  the  legate  sent 
to  England  by  Pius  II.  tJ3  reconcile  the  contend- 
ing factions ;  and  the  manner  in  which  his  services 
are  referred  to  are  quite  what  we  might  have 

la  Henry's  letter  to  the  pope,  preserved  at 
Milan,  he  is  said  to  hare  eSected  much  good,  and 
the  king  hoped  that  he  would  effect  more  if 
asnated.  But  in  the  letter  of  the  two  turns  of  the 
Duke  of  York  he  is  almost  cltumed  as  a  partiaan 
on  their  side  ("cujus  status  cum  nostris  fortunis 
estcoDJunctus"),  which  there iano  doubt  he  prac- 


tically was  by  the  moral  support  he  gave  to  their 

All  this  is  certunly  in  favour  of  the  genuine- 
ness of  the  document  It  has  nevertheless  been 
suspected  by  gentlemen  whose  opinion  in  such 
matters  is  worUiy  of  all  deference,  that,  although 
the  body  of  the  document  be  genuine,  the  sub- 
scription and  signatures  may  be  forgeries.  This 
supposition  would  leave  us  free  to  believe,  accord- 
ing to  the  received  accounts,  that  neither  of  the 
supposed  writers  was  at  the  time  in  London  ; 
whereas,  if  we  uphold  the  genuinenesa  of  the  sig- 
natures, we  must  conclude  tbat  the  chroniclers 
were  wrong,  not  only  as  to  the  Earl  of  Rutland 
having  gone  -with  his  father  to  the  North,  but 
also  as  to  the  Earl  of  March  having  by  that  time 
left  London. 

I  believe  myself  it  is  quite  posdUe  tbat  the 
chroaiclera  were  wrong  in  both  these  points,  and 
that  the  document  in  question  thus  supplies  us 
with  new  and  more  accurate  ioformatioa.    But 


before  we  cwi  presume  that  this  is  so,  it  is  very 
deutable  that  the  document  itself  should  be  buV 
mitted  to  critical  inspection  by  competent  judges 
as  to  the  authentidtT  of  the  ugnatures.  I  myself 
inspected  the  TAS.  m  the  salo-room  before  my 
attention  was  drawn  to  an^  of  the  points  of  sus- 
picion, and  the  handwriting  did  not  strike  om 
as  in  any  way  liable  to  queation  ;  but  I  will  by  no 
means  warrant  that  under  the  circumstances  I 
my  not  have  been  deceived. 

I  would,  therefore,  beg  leave  to  suggest  to  th» 
present  owner  of  the  m£  that  he  would  be  doing 
a  service  to  English  history  if  he  would  consent 
to  lend  it  for  a  short  time  to  the  trustees  of  the 
British  Museum,  who,  I  have  no  doubt,  would  be 
glad  to  take  it  into  their  custody  that  it  might 
be  earefally  inspected  by  palieographers,  and  the 
signatures  comi4red  with  other  signatures  of  thft 
Earls  of  March  and  Rutland,  so  that  its  exact 
historical  signiifcance  may  be  the  better  ascer- 
tained. James  Oairdbbb. 


S  BEH 


ON  THE  OOSJOINT  PROPRIETORSHIP  I 
JONSON'3  WORKS. 
In  B  fonner  note  (4*^  S.  v.  674),  when  speaking 
of  the  second  volume  of  the  folio  Ben  Jonson 
published  by  Meighen  in  1640,  but  containing 
three  plays  published  by  Allot  in  1631,  I  wrote, 
as  follows : — 

"  As  to  tbe  three  plava  of  1681,  Allot  m«}-  have  sold 
tbem  to  MoigheD,  or,  a>  Is  mora  likely,  agreed  to  ■  con- 

iiiint  publieilioa.    A  aioiilar  conjoiDC  propiietornhip  is, 
thiDk,  ta  be  fonnd   in  the  lint  TolumB   [of  leJO]. 
FoeUater,  (hongh  evidentlv  prioted  at  the  same  ofGoa- 

_;.v  .1 .  _u|j  tj,on_j,  biaring  one  of  Bishop'a  devices 

>f  the  volumel.  has  Youag'a,  not  Biahop>. 
ids-page.      The  probable  exptaaatioa  of 
IB,  that  Tonng  held  the  right  of  publlBhing  the 
Pottawttr,  and  by  pliclng  hia  name  on  the  tills -page  kept 


[the  poblishei 


volume.    The  aa 


10  Bible  of  1637." 


Two  days  ago,  while  arranging  the  loose  leaves 
of  a  first  folio  of  1616, 1  observed  similar  differ- 
ences  in  its  parUcular  title-pages.  The  general 
engraved  title  bears,  "Impnnted  at  London  by 
AVill.  Stansby,"  and  the  title-pages  of  all  the 
plays,  save  two,  bear,  "  I>ondon  j  Printed,  by  Wil- 
liam Stansby."  One  of  these  two.  Entry  Man 
Out  of  hi*  Humour — tbe  only  play  that  has  two 
engraved  head-nieces  instead  of  one,  and  where 
alone  in  the  volume  is  a  tiiil-piece  to  be  found— 
has  also  tbe  on^  engraved  and  ornamented  par- 
ticular title-page,  and  it  hears,  "London J  Printeii 
by  W.  Stansby  |  for  I.  Smithwicke."  The  other 
or  Podattet't  title-page  bears  "London  j  Printed 
by  William  Stansby  [for  Matthew  Lownes,"  tbe 

C\a  edition  of  the  Po^ader  in  1001  having 
"  Printed  for  M.  L.,"  and  "  aould  in  St.  Dun- 
stan's  Cburch-yarde."  It  is  therefore  clear  tbat 
though  Stansby  (or  Jonson)  had  managed  to  ob-   r 


4*  s.  Til.  Mmcb  18,  Ti.]         NOTES  AXD  QUERIES. 


231 


tun  the  right  of  publishing  all  the  other  pre- 
vioiul;^  publiabed  plays,  Smithwicke,  to  -whom 
the  origiaal  proprietor  of  Eaery  Man  Out  of  hit 
Sumour  had  BaBigned  hia  lit^hts,  ftnd  M.  Lovnes, 
the  original  holder  of  the  Pott(Uter,  had  refused 
to  part  with  their  rights,  but  had  allowed  of  the 
reprintiag  of  their  pieces  without  prejudice  to 
tbeinselves,  and  ou  condition  either  of  a  sum  down 
or  of  A  share  in  the  profits.  It  is  curious  to  find 
that,  so  loDg  after  aa  1640,  Robert  Young,  who 
most  in  the  mean  time  have  obtained  the  pro- 
prietorship formerly  held  hj  Lownes,  sflsin  re- 
fused to  part  wiUi  the  FoetaOer.  Ht^er  this 
indicates  the  continued  popularity  of  the  libellous 
SAtire,  or  the  determination  of  Young  to  drife  a 
hard  bargain  in  a  matter  in  which  he  had  the 
mastery.  That  Smithwicke  held  to  the  other 
play  in  1618  on  account  of  its  popularity  seems 
proved  by  Jonson's  words  of  preface  to  the  folio 
edition,  and  by  Smithwicke'a  godfatherly  care  in 
decking  it  out. 

There  is  yet  another  difierence  in  this  volume 
ofieie.   The  five  title-pages  of  "The  Epigrams," 

J  art  of  the  "  King's  Entertsiument  on  passing  to 
ia  Coronation,"  "A  Fanegyre,  &c,"  "A  Par- 
ticular Entertsonment  ...  at  Altborpe,"  and  of 
"  Masques  at  Court,"  are  without  name  of  printer 
or  puUisher,  and  merely  bear  the  imprint,  "  Lon- 
don [  K.sc.iyt,''  Why  this  difference  was  made 
I  do  not  know,  but  my  conjecture  ia,  that  for  the 
mke,  or  for  the  chance,  of  greater  profit  (may  the 
abide  of  William  Oiffbrd  not  take  this  ss  anotber 
slander  on  his  favourite  1),  Jonson  kept  tbe  pro- 
srietorship  of  these  in  his  own  hands.  It  would 
nave  looked  strange  in  that  day  to  have  put 
«  Printed  for  the  Author  |  by  |  W;  Stansby,"  and 
therefore  I  think  all  mark  of  proprietorship  was 
<muttsd  beyond  the  words  "by  B.  I.,"  which  on 
«nch  omissian  would,  I  conceive,  be  held  as  legal 
proof  of  the  author's  ownership  of  the  nieces. 
The  four  title-pages  of  the  I6J0  edition  (that  of 
the  "Panegyre"' being  left  out),  an  edition  pub- 
lished after  the  author's  death,  bear  tbe  usual 
im^nt  of  all  the  others — "  Loudon  I  Printed  by 
K.  Bishop."  Bbikslkt  Ni 


LANCASHIRE  FUNERAL  CUSTOMS. 
In  tbe  Fumeas  district  of  North  Lancashire 
some  interesting  customs  existed  within  a  few 
years  ago.  Sin^g  or  chanting  psalms  or  hymns 
me  the  sorrowful  train  wended  its  way  towards 
tbe  church  was  very  common  and  is  stilt  prac- 
tised. I  have  an  extract  from  an  old  lady's  will 
made  in  1704  which  shows  the  importance  at- 
tadled  to  this  ceremony.  It  bequeaths  "  twenty 
■hillings,  to  be  distributed  by  my  said  Son  in  Law 
to  sncn  young  men  and  otners  who  shall  ring 
Psalms  before  my  Corpse  to  y*  Church  all  y*  time 
^  my  funeral." 


Is  this  a  relic  of  pre-reformstion  times  ?  The 
old  Sarum  Use  provided  for  singing  as  the  corpse 
was  borne  to  the  grave  the  "Non  nobis  Domine" 
or  Psalms  iiv.  and  cxiv.,  according  to  tbe  dis- 
tance, and  on  returning  from  the  crave  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  ceremony  "  De  profundis,"  &c. 

Another  custom  was  to  give  to  each  individual 
a  small  cake  made  of  the  purest  whealen  flour 
(oat-bread  being  in  general  use)  called  "  arval 
bread,"  which  he  or  she  was  expected  to  carry 
home  and  eat  with  tbe  rest  of  the  family.  A 
large  number  of  persons  was  usually  "  bidden," 
and  it  was  considered  a  great  slight  if  each  family 
did  not  send  at  least  one  represeotatire.  Is  thu 
word  arwi/  derived  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  ar-fiil, 
respectful,  awful,  full  of  reverence ;  or  from  the 
Heorew  word  ahvai,  to  bang  down,  to  mourn  F* 
In  some  parts  of  Fumess,  where  the  parish  church 
was  at  a  conriderable  distance,  the  bearers,  who 
carried  the  corpse  on  a  nide  kind  of  bier,  were 
obliged  to  rest  at  intervals  along  the  road ;  and 
places  were  erected  hy  the  roadside  here  and  there, 
called  "  resting-stones,"  upon  which  the  coffin 
was  placed  until  a  relay  was  provided  and  alt 
had  rested.  In  these  ^tiicte  it  was  common  to 
distribute  the  arval  bread  before  starting,  and 
each  person  received  a  cake  and  a  quarter.  The 
quarter  was  generally  eaten  duriug  a  halt  about 
halfway  to  the  churdi.  H.  Babbbb,  iLO. 

UlvBralon. 

SWISS  SPRING  SONG. 
As  the  "question  of  Savoy  "  has  been  recently 
agitated,  ana,  so  far  at[  least  as  a  neutral  lone  or 
portion  of  Chablais  is  concerned,  ia  likely  to  form 
a  subject  for  future  discussion  and  deliberation 
between  France  and  Switzerland,  1  send  a  trans- 
lation of  a  poem  by  Doctor  Ziegter  of  Soleure,  ' 
which  came  out  shortly  after  the  present  Sir 
Robert  Feel  so  eloquenUy  defended  the  cause  of 
Switzerland  in  the  British  Parliament.    The  ori- 

B'nal  is  entitled  "  Friihlingagrusz  an  Sir  Robert 
»el,  in  Qenf."     To  show  the  beauty  and  melody 
of  Ziegler's  stanzas,  I  give  the  fijst  verse : — 
"  FcUhlimnluna  in  den  ThUcm, 
Blauer  Hitnmel  in  der  UHh', 
Grtlne  MatWo,  grOjie  Triften, 
Berg«abInTnen  antrrm  Sdinee, 
Anf  den  Flliaen  welau  Seffd, 
Auf  dan  Be*  gaubKft'ger  Eid,— 


Edler  Britte,  Robert  Pcet !  " 

■■  Strung  of  apring  ulole  the  villcys  ; 

la  tha  lift  the  huven  ti  blae ; 
Terdure  decks  tlis  fialds  and  bedgea ; 

Flowrele  peep  Ihe  Baow-drifti  througb ; 
On  the  lake— the  wbita  Mils  atresming — 

Fleaanre  plies  the  active  keel 
Welcome  ww  amidit  our  mountain^ 

Noble  Briton— B>d«it  Peal  I 


[*  CoDMlt «  N.  &  Q."  i"  S.  Iv.  368,  4as ;  vL  WBi^^, 


t 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*  S.  TIL  UUCR  18, 7L 


"  Many  ■  great  mind  dwells  unoog  as ; 
Alien  itoeta  tune  the  la^. 
And  reward  proverbial  fneodahip 

With  the  works  that  lire  for  aye. 
Tbon  hast  utt«red  words  of  fieedom— 

Words  our  wounded  spirits  feel : 

Therefore  welcome  to  our  moantaios. 

Brave  protector— Bobert  Peel  1 

"  Thou  hsBt  girdeH  on  thine  armour. 

Aimed  the  well-dinctad  lance, 

Waved  Helvetia's  whit«-cro>9  bonnar 

In  the  ttee  of  grasping  France, 
nearti  Uke  thine  will  guard  our  birthright 

From  the  bruise  of  dfapots'  heel, 

Therefore  welcome  to  onr  monnUius, 

Bold  confMerate— Robert  Feel  1 

■■  Ktonarchs  shower  thdr  decorations, 

Buttoned  ribbon,  cross  of  gold: 

Such  exotic  plants  we  grow  not, 

They  would  droop  in  Alpine  cold. 
Idiots'^  straws  and  children's  baubles 

To  their  slaves  let  tyrants  deal ; 
Fame  tot  thee  has  brighter  honoars, 
Ganeroos  stranger — Bobert  Peel !  " 

Jakes  Heuby  Dixoh. 


JoHiT  Dfeb. — The  ])oema  of  Dyer  are  to  be 
found  in  Johnson's  Poets,  althougli  the  editor  was 
unable,  apparentlj,  to  claim  for  them  any  merit 
to  juBtifj  taeir  preaerration.  In  his  life  of  Dyer 
■we  read — 

"Of 'The  Fleece,' which  never  became  popular,  aad  is 
now  universally  neglected,  1  can  aay  littlB  that  is  likely 
to  recall  it  to  atlention." 

It  is  not  of  the  poems,  howeroi',  but  of  the 
'  author's  portrait  prefixed  to  his  life  (Johnson' 
FoeU,  1790,  Tol.  T.),  that  I  wish  to  put  a  note  m 
record,  on  the  authority  of  "Maloniana"  (pub- 
lished at  the  end  of  Piior'a  Lifa  o/Edmond  Ma- 
lone,  p.  423),  where,  writing  of  Samuel  Dyer,  one 
of  tha  members  of  the  Literaiy  Club,  (who,  by 
the  way,  was  supposed  t«  have  written  theZctfers 
o/Juniui),  Malone  says: — 

•'Sir  Joshua  Eeynolds  painted  the  portrait  of  Mr, 
(Samuel)  Dyer,  which  is  now  in  Mr.  Burke's  posseasion. 
There  is  ■  meziatlDto  flrom  it,  which  has  h«en  copied  for 
The  Liea  of  the  PotU  by  mistake,  as  if  it  were  the  por- 
trait of  John  D3^eT,  author  of  a  poem  called  Tht  Fleeet." 
Ohablbs  Wylib. 

Rbcotxby  01  Ebocz  Chusch  Rbsibtgb. — 
The  local  papeis  announce  the  recovery,  by  the 
Rer.  W.  lagc^  of  Bodmin,  of  an  old  Tolume  of 
tefHsters  for  uie  pui«h  of  Feock  between  Truro 
and  Falmouth  :— 

•■  He  met  with  it  in  Londoa,  and  finding  that  it  had 
no  deBcriptive  title,  but  evidratly  belonged  to  some  Gor- 
niib  pariah,  conaoluid  doeaments  in  the  registry  at 
Bodmin  (by  psrmiiaioD  of  Hr.  CoUina),  and  was  thus 
enabled  to  idaulify  it  aa  one  of  the  pariah  reeistais  of 
Feock,  lost  vary  minr  yean  ago.  It  records  baptlai 
r- ..  ^  ^Qij  burials  daring  the  inenmbendm  or  th 


E.  H.  W.  DuBiiM. 


1724.' 


Rash  Statekknts. — As  a  remarkable  instanoa 
of  this,  take  the  following  from  Gibbon  (DeeUu« 
and  Fall,  voL  i.  chap,  t.)  :— "  An  hundred  wall- 
disciplined  soldiers  will  command  with  despotic 
sway  t«n  millions  of  subjects."  This  is  on«  man 
against  one  hundred  thtnuand.  Now,  according  to 
ordinary  computation,  if  this  one  man  had  to  call 
over  the  musteT'Toll  of  these  one  hundred  thou- 
sand, and  were  to  continue  witbout  iotermisaon 
from  eight  o'clock  in  the  moming  till  four  in  the 
afternoon — no  trifling  day's  work— he  would  not 
get  through  it  under  Otrta  days. 

Another,  not  much  inferior,  is  quoted  by  Fuller 
{Holy  ataU,  book  vr.  chap.  srii.  a.  2)  from  Til- 
mau  Bredenacb,  De  Be&o  lAvon.: — 

"  1  can  scarce  believe  what  one  tells  ds,  bow  Walto- 
Pletembe^,  Master  of  the  Teutonic  Order,  with  a  small 
numbw,  slnr  in  a  battle  a  hundred  thoosand  Muscovita 
anemiea,  with  loss  of  but  one  man  on  his  side." 

Scarce  belisTel  I  should  think  not  indeed,  u 
who  could,  unless  he  had  deluded  himself  into 
tlie  belief  that  the  Munchausen  lies  were  naked 
truth.  Edudud  Tew,  M.A. 

Patching  Bectocy,  Anmdel. 

MS.  NoTBS  ON  Flt-lbaves. — On  the  fly-leaf  of 
a  MS.  treatise  on  Wbea,  thirteenth  century,  in  n 
rery  cramped  and  almost  iUe^ble  hand,  much 
contracted : — 

"I  Julius  ceeaiyrheghemnr 

In  flrythe  and  la  ftld  eUlI  fair  was  my  fkme 
Of  Borne  &  of  Romans  I  bare  ay  y*  flour 
and  thens  caput  mondi  wes  I  called  be  name. 

"  I  Alisiunder  conquered  to  patadys  gate 
Saue  y*  He  of  women  all  y*  warid  I  It  waa 
In  Bchayer  thai  me  sent  a  laosdl  ofBtale 
Wytneaof  Arestotley'  dwelt  w'  me  than. 


mony  belhau  haue  I  kylde  &  hedyde  at  anys 
I  conquered  y*  grekis  to'y*  grek  see 
and  emang  tbame  I  dyed  &  thar 

lyes  my  boDya." 
On  a  leaf  at  the  end  of  the  same  MS.  occurs  tiie 
following  charm,    appaientlj  to    be  used  as  a 

"  /■  itomiue  patrU  {■  jUit  it  spintu  Kouti,  when  Onr 
lorde  IhesuB  was  don  on  ;*  Cros,  tlian  com  longinoa 
thlder  &  amot  hym  w<  hys  spar  in  y<  ^de  bind  &  water 
com  out  at  f  wounde  &  wypyd  hys  eghene  i  Baw« 


0  y  g 


dyda  gata.    I 


comannde  y*  blnde  y'  y'  com  noght  out  of  j''  compyi- 
tyma.   /■  •mmme  peiri*  {fc    Say  y*  lArji." 

Weat  Derby,  Liverpool.      Jo&X  Elioi  HoDemr. 

"  WxLL-inaH  "  POK  "  Alkost  " :  "  Ohcb  Aim 
A8Ant." — Who  brought  into  fiwhiou  the  word 
taeU-nigh,  which  within  the  last  year  or  so  ht» 
come  to  be  commonly  stib8titut«d  fbr  tilmoit  T  Ona 
has  always  been  familiar  with  well-mgh  in  old 
English,  and  in  our  nortbem  counties  it  has  nerer 
gone  out  of  colloqmal  use ;  but  in  ordinary  Eng-r  i  ( 
lish  speech,  and  in  writing,  it  bad  become  ite«rl]r 


t»  S.  VI[.  Harrh  II 


■1.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


233 


obsolete.  AU  persons  now-a-dsjs  read  news- 
papeis  and  nove^,  and  manj  read  noUiuig  else,  so 
that  a  word  oncn  started  bv  a  popular  novel-writer 
or  jonraalist  becomes  within  a  few  months  adopted 
by  the  public  in  a  tml;  remarkable  manner.  One 
cannot  now  take  up  a  newspaper,  maf^ine,  or 
popular  tale,  without  coming  upon  ^ell-nigh  in 
such  a  position  as  eUtnoit  would  nave  held  a  year 
or  two  ago. 

Ones  and  again  is  another  pet  phrase  of  ([uite 
recoit  popularity.  If  a  thing  occurred  repeatedly 
ire  used  to  say  it  happened  "  agun  and  again,"  but 
now  people  lorile  (I  do  not  observe  that  they 
■ay)  once  and  again.  Mr.  Trollope,  if  I  remember 
rightly,  uses  the  phrase;  perhaps  he  set  the 
fuhion.  like  weli^nigh,  once  and  agam  was  for- 
nerly  in  um  (1  Thess.  ii.  18),  and  perhaps  it  has 
sorrived  ns  a  provindaliam,  and  has  now  become 
popularised  by  some  &vourita  author,  who  has 
bimeelf  retained  it  through  his  early  provincial 
op-bringing.  Jatsbe. 

"Mother  Red  Cap," — I  forward  you  a  print 
of  "  Uother  Damnable,"  a  few  copies  of  which  I 
bare  now  in  my  possession,  and  shall  have  plea- 
sure in  distributing  them  amongst  collectors  of 
rare  prints,  as  I  believe  thia  to  be  a  specimen. 
I  am  collecting  accounts  of  notorious  and  eccen- 
tric individuals,  and  shall  feel  obliged  if  any  cor- 
respondent could  furnish  me  with  any  information 
about  the  female  thus  described ;  —  "  Mother 
Uamaable,  the  remarkable  shrew  of  Kentish  Town, 
the  person  who  eave  rise  to  the  sign  of  the 
'  Motber  Red  Cap'  on  the  Hampstead  Boad,  near 
London,  An.  Dom.  1G76.  Taken  from  an  unique 
print  in  the  coUecUon  of  the  late  I.  Brindley,  Esq." 

Uercorj  Office,  CheltcDbam.         TaoUAS  Ha&P£B. 

■WoKDSWORTH:  CoifSTABtB,  ETO. — There  is  a 
sonnet  by  Wordsworth,  appended  to  the  edition 
of  WaUon't  Lii-es,  published  by  Henry  Wash- 
butime  in  1840,  in  which  the  following  lines  occur 
priiit«d  in  italics,  doubtless  with  n  view  of  calling 
the  reader's  attention  to  their  beauty ;  — 
"  The  f«*ther  whenca  the  pen 

Was  shaped,  tbat  traced  the  Uvea  of  these  good  rata, 

Dropt  froiD  an  adgel's  wing." 

The  idea  is  certainly  felicitous,  bat  it  did  not 
originate  with  Wordsworth:  for,  in  a  sonnet 
addressed  "To  the  King  of  Scots,"  by  Henry 
Constable,  a  poet  now  scarcely  remembered,  the 
concluding  lines  are  as  follows ;  — 

*■  The  pen  wherewith  thon  dost  »  beavenl;^  dnge 
Hade  Ufa  qnlU  plack't  fiom  am  aagell'a  winge." 

And  the  same  thought  he  thus  varies,  in  one  of  his 
"^irituall  Sonne  ttea,"  in  praiae  of"St.  Katha- 

"  Hy  miue  doth  needs 
An  angelt's  ftotbera,  when  thy  prayie  I  tyngt." 
In  addition  te  the  above  extracts  from  Henry 
Constable,  let  me  add  the  following  from  the 


quunt  author  of  the  Mublemt,  who  rises  to  un- 
usual elevation  in  his  poem  on  "  Futh  " :  — 
"  Bat  woold'at  thoa  oonqoer,  have  thj  conquest  crown'd 
By  hands  of  seraphimB,  trinmpb'd  with  the  (onnd 
Of  heaven's  loud  trumpet,  warbled  hj  the  ahrlU 
Cdestial  choir,  recorded  with  a  quill 
Pluck'd  from  (he  pinion  of  an  «n([ors  wing, 
Conflnn'd  with  joy  by  heaven's  eternal  King ; 
Couqaer  thyself  thy  rebel  thongbts  repel. 
And  chaaa  those  false  affections  that  rebel." 

Surely  these  passages  prove  that  Wordsworth's 
imitation  of  both  or  eitner  of  these  poets  must 
have  been  more  than  accidental.  T.  C.  S. 


luotad  by  T.  C.  f 
directed  io  a  similar  thought  in  some  verses  by  Dorothy 
Berry,  prefixed  to   Diana  Primrose's  Otaia  of  Ftaru, 


CuRions  Pbophbct. — In  a  register  of  the  six- 
teenth century,  preserved  in  the  archives  of  the 

Palius  de  Justice  at  Bruges  (Varia,  No.  Gil),  is 
the  following)  I  copy  UUeratim:  — 

»  GaUoram  levitaa  Genoanoa  dncet  ad  astri : 
Itnliie  grat-itas  Qallo  depreaao  vigebit : 
Succnmbet  Galtnsi  Aquilae  victoria  cedet : 
Papa  dto  nioritar,  Caesar  regnabit  ntenine 
Sic  quo  rassaliit  tone  voni  gloria  mnndi. 
Congregati  sunt  leo  et  pardus,  diceotes :  Ut  quid  Galloa 
gallinaceos  excatit  in  alas  snaa,  et  saperbia  sua  exaltat 
vocem  enam,  nou  enim  est  oonCeatas  granla  luis,  nee 

Ce  aliena:  veoite  er^,  cedamna  eum  virgis 


°n8%^'e 


I  plumas  Buas,  et 


sangninoIentU,  c 

lllnd  qnod  habet  anferte  ab  eo,  et  sdt  a  filiia  homlnum 
quod  hamiliabitnt  valde  suparbia  eloa. 

"  Usee  enim  scripts  sunt  anno  Domini  1G06,  decima 
qninta  Seplembris,  ex  nno  antiquissimo  libro,  qui  tiber 
non  cieditnr  scriptiu  in  ducentii  annis." 

W.  H.  JAUBS  Wealb. 

WiLB  Fbthts  ni  Gebkaitt. — The  present  low 
prices  of  wild  fruit  in  Germany  seem  to  be  a  con- 
sequence of  the  raging  war,  as  thousands  of  bar- 
rel^ full  of  them  are  annually  exported  to  France 
for  the  fabrication  (or  so-called  colouring)  of  the 
"  pure  St  Julien  claret,"  the  "  University  claret," 
or  other  "choice  clarets  of  various  growths,"  lam 
especially  alluding  to  wild  raspberries  and  lul- 
berries  (Vaccinium  imfrlHiut,  IS) ;  a  measure  of 
the  latter  of  which,  equal  in  weight  to  fivepounds, 
was  offered  to  me  this  morning  (July  27)  for  » 
little  more  than  twopence.  An  equal  quantity  of 
beautiful  wild  raspberries  was  selling  for  about 
sevenpence.  Cartloads  of  the  wholesome,  aro- 
matic, but  bitter  cranberry  {Vaccinium  vitU  idaa, 
L.)  vnll  arrive  in  a  short  time,  selling  from  three 
to  four  pence  the  same  qunntity.  Beautiful  ripe 
sour  black  cherries  {Pemca  ctraiut,  L.)  are  selling 
a  little  more  than  a  hallpenirv  a  pound.  These, 
too,  ae  also  the  bird-cherry  (Ptnieum  onnnn,  L.)^  v 


234 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[t>kS.T[l.  lI^BOHl8.Tl. 


were  exported  for  tlie  siune  purpoM.  Immense 
qutotities  of  the  bilberry  una  the  cranberry  we 
preaerred  vHthont  Bugar  for  tbe  winter,  will  iieep 
for  years,  and  are  sweetened  when  used.  Busaiaii 
cranberries  (a  jelly  of  which  ie  often  put  on  the 
top  of  other  preserTes,  m  a  piod  way  of  "keep- 
ing" them)  Me  considered  the  best,  nerer  pos- 
sesung  a  itnni^nt  or  sorbate  taste.*  The  present 
proTinceofHaiiovBr  formerly  exported  the  greatest 
qwaatities  of  wild  fruit  for  the  abovB-named  pur- 
pose to  France,  amounting,  if  I  am  rightly  in- 
formed, to  more  than  300,000  franca  a  year.  Olaret 
vwill  rise !  Hebhirk  Kindt. 


(Surttti. 


Albahbtahii  Akondetille. -^Iu  the  list  of 
■nrms  and  quarterings  of  Worcestershire  families 
given  bj  Nash  in  his  history  of  that  county  are 
these  two  entries :  — 

"  AlbuiC7 :  Aznre,  a  ebevioD  ermine  between  thre« 
flenn-de-lis  ■rKeat' 

"  Amoodeville  1  Ai^ent,  a  cron  moline  .  .  .  ." 

Neither  of  these  coats  is  given  in  Fapworth'a 
Ordinary,  and  I  hare  many  reasonn  for  eupposing 
them  to  be  wrongly  i^pniprialed.  They  are  both 
given  bj  Berry  in  his  appendix,  but  he  has  copied 
many  of  Nasb's  errors. 

I  wish  to  know  to  what  families  they  reaHy 
belong,  and  by  what  Worcestershire  family  thej 
were  quartered. 

The  latter  coat  I  take  to  be  that  of  Uredale . 
for  I  God  amoog  the  quarterlnga  of  Lord  Howard 
de  Walden,  in  Edmoodaon's  Bttronagmm,  the 
coat  of  Amundeville  (Azure,  a  fret  or)  preceded 
ly  thatof  Uvedale  (Argent,  a  cross  moline  gules). 

DidUvedale  matry  an  heiress  of  Amundeville  F 

H.  a.  G. 

ABrKSEL  AKD  ABCNDBito.— In  one  of  the 
valleys  of  the  Canarese,  nr  province  of  Ivrea,  in 
Piedmont,  there  are  the  ruins  of  a  castle  bearing 
the  name  of  Arundello.  It  was  built  after  the 
year  1176  by  one  of  the  many  branches  of  the 
□oble  family  of  San  Martino,  who  bore  the  title 
of  Lords  of  Arundello  down  to  the  last  centuiy, 
when  they  became  extinct  Could  it  be  possible 
to  eiplain  the  identitv  of  name  between  tne  Ita- 
lian castle  and  the  English  castle  and  town,  or 
at  least  between  the  fuiily  of  the  Italian  Lords 
of  Arundello  and  that  of  the  English  Earls  of 
Arundel  ?  The  first  Earls  of  Arundel  in  England, 
from  1139  to  1921,  were  the  Albini — one  of  whom 
came  with  the  Conqueror  to  England.    The  earl- 


*  The  bramble  (Aiiiii  fnticain,  L.)  is  len  thought 
of  In  Gensuiy  tban  in  England,  l\imiefalDg  u  it  does  >n 
ezcctleut  preservo.  A  Fnnch  Ud7  of  my  acquiincance 
would  never  allow  ber  ebildren  to  eat  blackbeiHei,  usbe 
■rssanre  of  tbdr  bringing  00  a  beadacbe.  , 


dom  then  passed  by  marriage  to  the  Fltaalans  till 
1680,  when  agiuo  by  marriage  it  became  the 

heritage  of  the  Howarda,  who  atiU  hold  it.  It  is 
well  known  that  in  the  thirteenth  century,  in  the 
reign  of  Henry  HI.,  tbe  princes  of  the  House  of 
Savoy,  and  especially  Peter  li.  (the  little  Charl&. 
magne),  and  Boniface,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
were  in  high  favour  at  the  English  court,  and 
London  was  crowded  with  their  nobles  from 
Savoy,  Vaud,  and  Hedmont  It  is  possible  that 
one  of  these  nobles  became  connected  with  the 
Arundel  family  of  those  times  (1241-1268),  and 
upon  going  hack  to  hit  conntry,  out  of  regard  for 
English  associations,  gave  his  castle  the  name  of 
Arundel ;  precisely  as  Cardinal  Oualo  reproduced 
the  architecture  and  the  name  of  St.  Andrew's 
church  of  Chester  in  the  beautiful  Sant'  Andrea 
ofVercelli.  That  in  those  days  the  intercourse 
between  Italy  and  England  and  the  connection 
between  the  families  of  the  two  conntries  was 
not  unfrequeut,  we  may  argue  from  the  fact  that 
John  Fitiolan,  seventh  Earl  of  Arundel  (1269- 
1302),  married  Alice,  daughter  of  the  Marquis  of 
Caluzzo.  It  is  also  on  record  that  in  1383,  at 
Bourbou^  in  Flanders,  Amadeus  VII.  of  SaToy 
(called  '"The  Red  Count")  held  a  tournament, 
attended  by  several  English  lords;  and  that  one 
of  these,  the  "  Earl  of  Arundel,"  was  unhorsed  by 
the  Savoy  prince,  The  Eni^ish  nobleman  alluded 
to  could  only  be  Richard  fitsalan,  tenth  Eatl  of 
Arundel. 

Can  learned  historians  or  genealogists  throw 
any  light  on  this  subject  f  Qs. 

MoRDECAi  Caet. — Hordecu  Gary  of  Trinity 
College,  Cambridge,  went  to  Ireland  aschaplain  to 
the  Duke  of  Dorset,  Lord-ijeutenant ;  he  became 
Bishop  of  Clonfort  in  1781,  and  was  promoted  to 
Killala  in  1736.    He  married  Catherine,  daughter 

of P    I  shall  be  obliged  by  an  am»mt 

of  hit  ancestry.  T.  S.  M. 

Ahbb  (Chafhan)  Eitiohtlxt.  —  "  Anne, 
daughter  of  Sir  John  Chapman,  Lord  Mavor  in 
1688,  was  the  wife  of  —  fcnightley."  W&o  was 
her  husband  ?  He  does  not  appear  in  Baker's 
pedigree  of  the  Knightleys  of  Fawsley. 

C.  D.  C. 

[It  appears  that  Sir  Jobn  Cbipman  died  Har  T,  17ST, 
leaving  two  dsughteni  the  elder  married  Sir  Oliver 
ATihcumb,  Bart.,  of  LjfTord,  in  Betkahire ;  Ihe  yonnger, 
BeChis,  died  unmarrieiL — Burke's  Exlincl  Baronttngt,'] 

Mrs.  Mart  Chdrchili. — In  the  parish  church 
of  Minteme,  DorsetshiTe,  there  is  a  memorial  by 
Mrs.  Mary  Churchill  "  in  commemoration  of  her 
husband  John  Churchill,  Esq.,"  who,  according 
'    the  register — for  there  is  some  little  confusion 

to  the  dates  on  the  stone — seems  ^  have  died 
A^l  3,  166». 

From  a  comparison  with  other  memoranda,  it 
seems  hardly  possible  to  doubt  that  Ma  John 


iaaTiLUAncais,':!.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


235 


Churchill  was  the  grandfatlieT  of  the  great  Duke 
of  Marlborough,  ■who  is  stated  hy  all  the  Peer- 
ages Bod  in  Hutcliiiis's  Hutory  of  Dorset  to 
have  married  Sarah,  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Sir 
Heorr  WinstoD.  If  so,  Mrs.  Mary  Churchill  must 
have  been  his  second  wife ;  aod  the  questions 
arise,  who  was  she,  and  whan  did  Sarah  Winston 
die,  end  where  was  she  buried  ?  Mrs.  Mary 
Churchill,  the  wife  of  Mr.  John  Churchill,  Esq., 
WHS  (according  to  the  register)  buried  July  19, 
1677.  Answers  to  these  queries  will  greatly  oblige 

C.  W.  BlBQHAlt. 

LoBD  DuDLBT  AKD  Wakd,- 1784. — Has  any 
portrait  of  Lord  Dudley,  about  1784  or  so,  been 
engraved  P  J.  C.  J. 

WlLLIAH  FXBWIOK,    MaTOR  07  IIULL.- 
you   procure   me  information  as  requested 


■Can 


ceniing  William  Fenwick,  who  was  mayor  of 
Hull  in  170U  and  agiuu  iu  1T27  ?  He  matried 
Melior,  daughter  of  Isaac  Faiifai  of  Thornton,  in 
Pickering,  and  Catherine  his  wife.  William  ^n- 
wick  was  "  Chamberlain  of  Hull,  1099,"  and  was 
son  of  "Nicholas  Fenwick."  I  should  be  glad  to 
know  which  branch  of  the  Fenwicka  he  belonged 
to.    Communications  to  be  (uldressed  to  me, 

Mrs.  Barwick  Baker,  Hardwicke  Court, 
Qlouceater. 

Gerhah  Pbisck. — In  The  Sptrttaal  Rcercitei 
of  St.  Ignatiu»  (London,  Burns,  n.  d.,  p.  61)  there 
is  mendon  of— 

■*  A  German  prince,"  who,  "  wishing  to  lnapire  his  son 
with  a  great  horror  of  war,  ordered  a  painur  to  repre- 
*ent  tha  different  scenes  of  a  bloody  battle,  and  to  writo 
tbesa  words  at  the  bottom  of  (he  picture :  '  Behold  the 
frails  of  war  1 '  " 

What  woa  his  name  i  E.  Marshall. 

Saudfoid, 

"God's  Babt." — la  this  beautiful  exprosaion 
actually  in  use  iu  London  amon^  the  lower 
orders?  In  Mr.  George  Macdonald's  eiquisite 
little  book.  At  the  Back  of  the  North  Wind,  it  is 
constantly  made  to  appear  that  such  la  the  case, 
as  in  the  following: — " 'The  cabbies  call  him  God'a 
baby,'  she  whispered.  '  He's  not  right  in  the 
bead,  you  know.  A  tila  loose.' "  (p.  187.)  The 
meaning  of  the  term  ia  here  supplied. 

Jaues  BRiTTBir. 

Goon  Sir  aud  Dbak  Stb. — Some  letters  in  my 
possession  from  Isaac  Maddox,  bishop  of  Wor- 
cester, dated  the  early  part  of  the  last  century, 
commence  with  "  Good  rir."  How  long  has  the 
conyentional  form  "  Dear  "  prevailed  in  epistolary 
cOTTespondenca  P  In  the  Paston  Letters  the  style 
between  kindred  resembles  ntate  documents  of  the 
■overeigD,  where  they  address  each  other  as  "  lUgfat 
worshipful  father  "  or  "  husband." 

Thomas  K  Wi5sirgto!T. 


Lines  on  ibr  IIuhah  Ear. — Where  can  I  find 

some  clever  lines  which  appeared  in  one  of  the 
cheap  periodicals  of,  say,  some  fifteen  years  back, 
descrihmg  the  functions  of  the  human  ear  in  the 
shape  of  an  address  of  a  father  to  his  little  daugh- 
ter, ezpluning  to  her  how  she  heard  St.  Pancraa 
beU  ?  E.  L. 

79,  Gloucester  Terrace,  Hyde  Fark. 

GborobLondoh.— This  great  pidener,  founder 
of  the  Brompton  nursery,  supermtendent  of  the 
Royal  Gardens,  Page  of  the  Back  Stairs  to  Queen 
Man',  the  friend  of  Evelyn,  and  companion  of  the 
Earl  of  Portland  when  Ambassador  Extraordinary 
to  the  court  of  France  died  in  1713.*  Can  tay 
of  your  readers  tell  where  be  was  buried  P  His 
daughter  Henrietta  married  Sir  John  Feschey, 
Bart.  J. 

Macadlat's  Ballads. — The  eighth  and  last 
volume  of  "  The  Worke  of  Lord  Macauiay  (com- 
plete), edited  by  his  sister,  Lady  Trevelyan,"  and 
published  by  Longmans,  Green,  &  Co.  in  1808, 
professes  and  is  generally  supposed  to  contain  the 
more  approved  or  popul^  portion,  at  least,  of  the 
distin^ished  author  a  poetry.  I  miss  from  this 
twllection  the  truly  heroic  ballad  of  "  The  Siege 
of  Rochelle,"  which,  when  1  read  it  some  thirty 
years  ago  (in  my  Cnmbridgo  days),  I  thought  as 
good  as  any  other  lay  or  ballaa  he  ever  wrote, 
"  The  Armada,"  "  Naseby,"  "  Iviy,"  and  the  best 
of  the  Lai/i  of  Ancient  Some  not  excepted. 
Neither  is — 

"Ko«helle,onr  ownKochelle,  jHTond  city  of  the  waters," 
in  the  separate  poetic  volume  in  which  the  Roman 
and  others  of  his  heroic  lays  have  been  published 
these  many  years. 

Am  1  right  in  attributing  this  favourite  of  my 
young  days  to  Mocaulay,  aod  where  can  I  renew 
my  acqusjntanco  with  it  P 

A  thought  has  struck  me  recently  that  it  may 
have  been  a  joint  production  to  which  Praed  lent 
a  hand,  or  some  other  of  the  brilliant  Cambridge 
eclectics  who  commenced  their  literary  career  in 
Charles  Knight's  Quarttrlu. 

Thr  KmauT  or  Inishowrn. 

Joniar  St.  Jamea's  Club,  St.  James's  Street. 

Medical  Okdbb  of  St.  John.— Can  any  of 
your  correspondents,  versed  in  the  history  of  reli- 
gious and  charitable  orders,  give  me  any  infor- 
mation on  tbe  subject  of  the  "  Medical  Order  of 
St  John"P  This  order  is  very  cursorily  mentioned 
in  Voltfure's  PhUotopbical  JMctionan/,  under  the 
heading  "  Physicians,"  as  being  founded  by  St, 
Jean  de  Dieu,  and  oa  being  in  some  way  con- 
nected with  the  profesidon  of  medicine.  And 
Fleury,  in  his  Sittoire  tcd^eiaettqm,  gives  an  ac- 
count of  the  life  of  St  Jean  de  Dieu,  nnd  of  the 
establishment  of  tbe  order  of  tbe  "Brothers  of 

f  Jaimaiy  12, 1713-14.— Ed.] 


236 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [4*8.vii.  MAmcHi8,TL 


Charitj,"  but  nukes  no  mention  of  its  bwag 
m^my  a  medical  order. 

The  questions  I  wish  answered  tts — Was  this 
A  strict^  medicsl  order  P  la  it  in  erietence  at 
present?  Boesany  other  author  ^ve  fuller  infor- 
mation on  the  Bubiect  f  BELorairE. 

Mkahiho  or  "  NiCOiBnrs."  —  In  the  Hfe  of 
SdiDord  LortlJI»rb«rt,  ei.  1771,  ^.101,  ie— 

"  Everv  boot  tied  with  ■  imall  ribband  of  a  Naceiriae, 
01  ths  colonr  tbat  the  Knighti  of  the  Bath  wear,  gave  a 
very  graceftall  mixture,"  Ac 

What  was  noccaniwf  R  H.  Kitowlbs. 

Eeniiw<«11i. 

Paul  V.  ahb  the  Yksbtiuis. — Will  some 
reader  of  "  N.  &  Q."  kindly  refer  me  to  a  full 
collation  of  the  — 

"  Gontrovernn  M«motmbilel  ioter  Panlam  V.  PoDti- 

ficem  etTeoetoa Id  Tilla  SanTinceDtiina  apad 

Panlum  Horcellnm.     Snmptibaa  Caldoreann  Sodetatis, 


Fieytag,  in  his  Analecta  (ed.  1760,  p.  S69), 
gives  the  collation  as  part  i.  pp.  243;  part  n. 
pp.  276,  in  8. 

My  copy  agresa  with  the  title-page  as  given  by 
Freytag,  but  the  collation  differs  Tory  conndei' 
ahly.  Part  i.,  tboush  not  so  called,  agrees  with 
Freytag,  ending  with  "Hois"  on  ^.  242 :  its  con- 
tents also  agree  with  the  index  which  follows  the 
general  title  (there  are  no  separate  titles  for 
parts  I.  and  ii.)  Part  n.  consists  of  672  pages, 
and  its  contents  are  all  noted  in  general  index 
with  the  exception  of  the  last  item,  sixteen  stanzas 
of  Italian  poetry,  pp.  669-672.  The  papnation 
of  the  index  does  not,  however,  correspond  with 
the  first  four  ariiclea  in  part  u. ;  the  first  of 
which,  ».  g.  "  Cardinalis  fiaronij  Pareenesis,"  &c., 
is  paged  345,  as  if  it  should  bo  found  in  part  i. ; 
from  p.  173,  part  n.,  the  index  and  pa^ation  of 
thepart  agree. 

There  are  three  tractates  bound  np  in  the  vo- 
lume, but  they  do  not  belong  to  tne  work  as 
AiKKR  Ibvinb. 

Fife  Roll,  6  SiEPHSir. — Your  correspondent 
NixBOB,  in  his  note  on  "  Herveus,"  quotes  this 
Boll  as  the  authorih'  for  one  of  his  statements. 
May  I  ask  whether  there  be  such  a  Roll  F  Is  not 
this  the  Roll  identified  by  Mr.  Hunter  as  that  of 
31  Hen.  I.F  I  put  the  question  for  information,  and 
by  no  means  as  wishing  to  be  r^^arded  as  myself 
&n  authori^.  I  should  have  known  nothing  pro- 
bably of  tlie  matter,  but  for  the  somestion  of  so 
sblcj  but  now  deceased,  Mend.        W.  H.  H.  C. 

PuHOB-i^istB  OF  Gbobse  IIL — I  the  other  dny 
bought  a  silver  punch-ladle  with  a  gold  seven- 
ehiUing  piece  let  into  the  bottom  of  it  It  bore 
the  eipher  "^O,  R^"  and  an  inscription  "Ex 


dono  OeOTgiuB  m.  Optimo  Segi  1773,"  and  o 


the  stalk  the  initials 


I-A. 


The  bowl  w 


i  rather 


artistically  embossed  with  the  English  rose  and 
Scottish  thistle  in  high  relief  j  the  nandte  was  of 

As  I  am  informed  by  one  who  stil!  recollects 
the  days  of  George  the  Good  that  he  was  in  the 
halHt  of  presenting  such  gifts  to  many  persons  he 
took  a  fancy  to,  perhaps  soma  of  your  raiders  may 
be  able  to  affonl  me  a  little  farther  infoimatiou 
on  the  subject  H.  H. 

Portsmooth. 

Sebjbaiit  Salxbld. — I  am  desirous  to  hare 
some  account  of  the  ancestors  and  descendants  of 
William  Salkeld,  serjeant-at-law  sod  reporter  of 
the  King's  Bench  ftom  1689  to  1703.  I  belies 
he  came  from  Rock  in  Northumberland.         W. 

[William  Sulkfld  WHS  descended  from  fl  verj-  andent 
family  in  Cumberland.  Tha  Sulfcelds  poMMsed  the  msnor 
of  Corbv,  upon  the  attainder  of  Andrew  de  Mircia,  bv  a 
gwit  from  Edward  111.  to  Richiid  de  Balkeld,  Ifnt 
Afterwards  came  Hash  de  Salkeld,  John  de  Salkeld,  and 
RicbsTd  de  Salkeld.  The  Utter  died  17  Henrj  TIL  The 
loM  Thomas  Salkeld  sold  Corby  to  the  Lord  William 
Howard,  third  son  of  Thomas,  great  Duke  of  Norfolk. 
Seijeant  Salkeld  was  bom  at  Fallodor,  orFallodoD.  in 
NorthambertaDd,  in  1670,  and  was  the  elde«t  son  of 
Samuel  Salkeld,  Esq.,  of  the  same  place.  This  Samuel 
was  of  Fallodor  and  Swinhoe,  near  Newcastle,  proparliea 
which  his  sod  inherited.  He  died  iuteetale  in  1699.  The 
■eijeant  obtained  Fifehead  Nevil,  in  DotseMhire,  bv  mar- 
riage  with  MisB  Ryyes,  an  heirew.  He  was  educated  at 
Oxford,  and  admitted  a  student  of  the  Middle  Temple  on 
Maj  S,  1693,  and  called  to  the  Bar  in  1698.  He  died  on 
Sept.  14,  1716,  aged  fortv-Gre  or  six.  leaving  throe  aoos 
and  three  daughters :  William,  the  posseasor  of  Fifahead, 
died  in  1782,  unmarried.  Robert  was  the  second  son,  who 
married  his  Snt  connu,  the  dauf^bter  of  James  Salkeld 
the  younger,  brother  of  the  seijeant.  Robert  married, 
secondly,  9anh  the  widow  of  P,  Ruffe,  by  whom  he  had 
one  son,  William,  a  physidan,  who  manied  Gret  Eliia- 
betb  Palmer,  one  of  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds's  niecee.  His 
second  wife  was  Anue,  the  ddeat  sister  of  Jamee 
Clitberow,  of  Boston  Hoose.  near  Brentford.  Charles,  the 
youngest  sou  of  the  seijeant,  is  supposed  to  have  been 
connected  by  mairiaj;e  with  the  Rev.  Charies  Simeon  of 
Cambridge.  This  Charles  bad  a  daaghcer.  whose  de- 
scendants in  Dorsetshire  possess  a  gmd  share  of  the 
family  pictures.  The  Serjeant  had  three  daughters :  1. 
Mar7,married  first  Edmnnd  Gam  of  Blandford;  secondly, 
Thomas  Waten.  of  Blandford.  by  whom  she  badascai 
and  three  danghtere.  2.  Elizabeth,  married  the  Rev. 
James  Dibben,  rector  of  Fontmell  Magna.  3.  Aime,  died 
unmarried  In  1741.  For  other  details  of  this  family, 
consult  Woolrych'e  ^t<es  ef  Emiaait  Scijuaiit-al-Laio 
of  Out  Englitti  Bar,  2  vols.  8to,  1869,  vol  li.  pp.  48S- 

SicxLE  Borax :   BoTTTE  MoNBT.  —  In  &  lease 
dated  Oct.  28, 1678,  is  a  condition  that  the  tenant 
is  to  find  one  "  sycle  boyne  "  to  cut  com  {hladat) 
in  autumn,  for  one  day.  Again,  Feb.  8, 1771,  the    ■ 
corporation  of  thie  boroujrh  ordered  that  their  ten-  )  |  (^ 
anta,  who  had  usually  paid  to  the  mayors  "  boin»  S 
money,"  should  thereaftn  pay  tlra  same  to  tha 


BiATi.]         NOTES  AND  QTJEEIEa 


237 


m^on  for  ever.    Can.  aaj  one  explain  the  meui- 
ingof  "boyne"?  Ckablxb  Jaoksoh. 

DoncasUr. 

Teipp's  "Viboil." — ^What  *re  the  merits  of 
Che  work?  I  bare  oerer  met  with  it.  I  baTO 
amongst  mj  eollectiona  tha  following:  anonymous 
«pignm: — 

"OnJuaring  drtowr'iLeoniducOTaparalfaFir^V.* 
"  Like  nDto  Ticeil  lis,  jwrhapa ; 
But  then,  by  Jove,  'tis  Doctor^Trapp't." 

Trapp  was  a  reir  learned  man,  and  if  there  was 
any  resemblance  between  his  style  and  that  of 
Qlover.  he  cannot  have  been  such  a  very  bad 
poet  after  all.  Trapp  lived  at  a  time  when  blank 
verse  was  not  much  esteemed — when,  in  fact, 
Frenchified  jingling,  miscalled  heroic  veree,  was 
the  fAshion,  and  Milton  had  to  succumb  t^Boileau. 
Trapp  must  have  been  thoroughly  acquainted 
with  his  author.  Whether  he  had  suCScient 
poetic  genius  to  tranemute  Maronian  hexameters 
into  the  blank  verse  of  Shakspeare  and  Milton  is 
ivhat  I  should  like  to  know.  Perhaps  some 
reader  of  "N,  &  Q."  ^11  obli^  by  sending  an 
extract— say  twenty  or  thirty  lines— from  one  of 
ihe  eclogues.  Blank  verse  seems  the  proper  me- 
dium for  hexsmetera  and  pentameters. 

Stbpssh  jACXBon. 


"  Equal  to  Virej)  ?  It  may  perhapi. 
But  then,  bj  He«T«n,  'tis  Dr.  Trapp's." 
Trapp's  traiuUtioa  otT^tJBuid  ofTinil  into  blank 
Tene.  published  in  1717,  in  tiro  vols.  4to,  li  in  little  eaU- 
matioo,  and  1b  a  oompleu  failure  as  a  vork  of  art.  Dr. 
J<riiDson  abaerrad  that  "  Trapp'i  bonk  mar  contione  ita 
«xisteiice  aa  lon^  as  It  la  tba  cuodeatiiie  refage  of  school- 
bays."  It  ia  "indiffennUr  execnted,"  ranarki  John 
Mchola,  Id  1758  Dr.  Waiboiton  wu  thus  oampli- 
mented  for  bit  "  Dlatertation  on  the  Sixth  Book  of 
VirgU  " :  — 

"  Snre,  in  that  Hell  -whioh  yon  dedgn'd. 

For  miscreanta  vila  of  ev'tj  kind ; 

Bad  Criticka  well  deeerre  a  place, 

Nor  mer<^  e'er  abonld  flad,  nor  grace. 

Tranalatars  too  those  realms  sbonJd  hold. 

Who  put  oflTdroaa  ioalead  of  eold. 

Chief,  then  who  thy  bright  Hoae  disgrace, 

And  hide  with  it^iis  her  beanlaoua  face. 

There  creeping  Laoderdale  should  lie, 

CbU  Trapp,  «ad  murd'riiig  Ogilby."  *] 

Lakcashibb  Witches. — The  ladies  of  Lanca- 
•hiK  are  spoken  of  and  toasted  as  "  Lancashire 
witches."  Under  what  sobriquets  do  the  gallsnts 
of  other  English  counties  celebiate  the  beauty  of 
thrii  fair  easUrers  t  FsBsroiOEflsis. 

'WooDcni  InrUL  Lbitebs— Can  any  of  the 
correspondents  of  "  N.  &  Q."  inform  me  who  was 
the  designer  and  who  the  engraver  of  the  initial 
letters  (many  of  which  are  rerv  beautiful)  to 
the  duptera  in  Whitaker's  SiiAmoHddire  and 
■  Three  tranalatofs  of  Tlrgil. 


Laedit  Msny  of  these  are  views  of  places  in 
Yorkshire  wbich  are  easily  recognised,  bat  it 
would  l>e  interesting  to  know  the  whole,  and  it  is 
to  be  hoped  that  in  the  new  edition  wliich  is  pro- 
mised an  index  of  their  names  will  be  given. 

G.  D.  T. 


GAINSBOROUGH'S  "BLUE  BOY." 
{i>^  S,  iiL  676 }  iv.  28, 41, 80,  20*,  287 ;  v.  17, 36.) 

Since  this  subject  was  last  before  your  readen 
(Jan.  8,  1870),  and  created  a  widespread  in- 
terest, much  progress  has  been  made  towards 
settling  the  question  as  to  which  of  the  two 
"  Bine  Boys  "  is  the  origmal  picture,  and  thereby 
entitled  to  the  "  blue  ribana  "  of  the  fine  arts. 
With  your  approval  the  subject  will  be  resumed 
and  completed. 

Amongst  your  contemporaries  who  hare  com- 
mented on  the  facts  disclosed  in  your  columns, 
The  Queen  *  concludes  an  interesting  article, 
sccompaniad  by  a  sketch  of  the  "  Blue  Boy " 
printed  in  colomv,  with  the  following  pertinent 
remarks:  — 

"Until  last  year,"  says  Tht  Qiuen,"  the  fact  that  there 
were  two  '  Bins  Bon '  was  not  generally  known.  But,  as 
nnw-a-daya  there  is  aliraya  something  new  turning  up, 
or  some  article  of  faith  rnthleaaly  swept  away,  the  West- 
minster '  B.loe  Boy '  is  not  exempt  ftom  what  appears  to 
be  a  eeneral  mle.  The  questioe  as  to  which  of  them  is 
lbs  origiaol  and  wbich  the  replica  has  been  areued  with 
*  *'    in  our  contemporanr,  JVotM  and  QKtria. 


but  at  the  cosversazione  of  tbe  Institutiaa  of  Ciril  Engi- 
neers ia  1BE7,  Bft«T  a  lifetime's  obscurity,  a  seeood  'Bine 
BoT '  formed  one  of  the  works  of  art  lent  tor  exhibition, 
and  the  second  claimant  bos  been  pronounced  by  com- 
petent jndgee  to  be  a  very  fine  work  of  art." 

Here  it  will  usefully  refresh  the  memory  to 
quote  the  coaduaions  formerly  arrived  at  On 
September  16,  1869,  they  were  — 

"  That  the  '  Blue  Boy '  which  was  in  the  posaeasion  of 
Hr.  Hoppner,  R.A.,  is  not  the  oee  now  in  me  poaseasion 
of  the  Marquis  of  Westminster )  that  it  is  more  likely  to 
be  the  one  wbich  was  the  property  of  Ihe  Isle  Hr.  Hall, 
aa  exhibited  at  tbe  couTeisoJone  of  tbe  Institntioa  of 
Civil  Engineers  in  1867 ;  that  if  one  of  the  two  ■  Blue 
Boys 'has  been  copied  from  the  other,  it  is  the  West- 
DiinstBT  one,  which  ia  a  copy  of  the  rival  picture;  and 
that  if  both  pictures  are  GamslwroDgh's,  than  tha  least- 
known  one  ia  (ha  finest  work  of  art." 

Ajid  on  January  8, 1870— 

"That  the  inferences  formerly  drawn  in  favour  of  the 
leaat-knowB  Blue-clad  have  been  virtually  coaSrmed  hy 
aabseqnently  received  facts  I  (hatthe  origuial 'BlneBoy,' 
as  wall  aa  saveral  other  Blue-dada,  were,  in  all  proba- 
bility, painted  btfin,  and  not  ajfttr,  the  delivery  of  Sir 
Joehoa  Beynoldrs  cold-colour  diacoorse  la  Decer~'"~ 
1778  ;  that  it  is  probable  the  original  '  Blue  Boy'  { 


•  April  80, 1870. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.         [4*s.tii.i 


■  IS,  71. 


direct  from  QtJiuboroogk'.  itwlio  to  UfJ*"*^  "f 
Georn  PrinoB  of  WilM,  •ft«nr»rd«  Georse  iV-i  Uut,  at 
anr  nia,  it  balonged  >t  one  time  to  the  PrincB,  aod  wm 
by  him  Mid  to/ohDNeebitt.  Em,M.P.i  tlut  the  very 
remukable  coiiicldenea  between  the  eerij-  dteMlptlcm  oT 
the  pictare  in  Mr.  Neibitt'*  poeMeelon  (by  Mr.  Pater 
Coxe),  end  the  recent  daicrlption  of  the  leeit-known 
"  BlQMlad"  (by  Mr.  K.  J.  Une,  A.BJ..)  to  premmably 
dna  to  their  mctnellv  referring  to  the  uune  pirtaie  j  thet 
■boat  1806,  if  not  preTlooily,  two  'Bine  Boj> '  eppew,  of 
whieh  the  origin»l  wM  in  Hoppner"!  cere,  wiii  the  nn- 
known  one  In  the  Groevonor  collection;  end  that  Uiere 
an  excellent  re«»a>  for  now  rwjognieing  the  leait-known 
*  Blue  Boy '  aa  (he  Bame  i^tare  which  wM  ancoeMiTely 
the  proper  of  for  wm  Jield  by)  H.R.H.  George  Priaoe 
of  Walw,  John  Noibilt,Eiq.fi.P,  and  JohnHoppner, 
Eaq,  R.A." 

So  far  as  we  know,  these  conduaiona  hvte  not 
been  controverted  by  a  single  fact  Rdvsnced  agunst 
them,  tlthough  the  will  to  rebut  them  hu  not 
been  wanting.  On  the  contrary,  further  dia- 
coreriea  and  closer  examinatjana  <h  both  pictniea 
have  Tirtuallj  esti^liahed  them. 


For  ezAmple,  a*  r^arda  the  ori^  of  the 
"Blue  Boy,  it  appewB  it  w«»  panted  in  1769 
and  exhibited  in  1770,  to  confute, 


cenfully,  Reynolds'  depreciation  of  Gainaborough'a 
akill  in  portraiture,  aeveral  years  before  the  cold- 
colour  axioms  were  launched  against  the  successful 
picture  and  its  ptuoter. 

To  Mr.  Joseph  Hog«rtb,  the  well-known  and 
respected  Teteran  in  works  of  art,  Mount  Street, 
Qroayenor  Square,  we  are  indebted  for  the  in- 
formation that  the  portrait  in  a  Vandyke  dreaa 
which  achieved  for  Gainaborough  so  great  a  suc- 
cess at  the  R.  A.  in  1770*  was  the  "Blue  Boy," 
and  that  it  was  the  picture  of  vrhidh  Mias  tiarj 
Moaer  said,  "  Gainsborough  beyond  himaell ' 
This  discovery  throws  a  flood  of  new,  if  leas 
feasant,  light  on  the  policy  of  Reynolds  towatde 

K-i — I u  .  w-.i  ti...  !~taresting  subject  must, 

defetred. 
iveight  to, the  tradition, 
which  it  IS  stud  the  bte  Mr.  Turner,  R.A.,  was 
disposed  to  believe,  that  the  ori^nal  "Blue Boy  " 
repreaented  a  youth  connected  with  the  Molyneux, 
now  the  Sefton  famUy;  for  Gainsboroogh  ei- 
hibited  the  portrwt  of  Isabella  Lady  Molyneux 
the  previous  year.  This  lady  had  two  brothers — 
Viacotmt  Peteraham,  then  sixteen,  and  Henry 
Fitiroy  Stanhope,  a  younger  one,  sons  of  a  soldier 
of  high  distinction— Earl  Harrington.  Now,  one 
of  these  youths  may  have  been  the  model  bov,  and 
thus  account  for  the  fine  militaiy  attitude  of  ease, 
grace,  and  elegance,  "  as  if  to  the  manner  bom," 
whitdi  so  prominently  dislingniahea  the  least- 
Imowu  "  Blue  Boy  "  over  ^e  nval  picture,  as  the 
beet  judges  tell  us. 

Moreover,  the  "  Blue  Boy  "  was  painted  at  Bath, 
»a  that  it  is  more  probable  one  of  the  youthful 
Aristocrats  who  visited  Gainsborough's  studio  in 

*  Fnlebtt'aLi/eo/CiaiHtoRii^ip.TS. 


that  dt?  became  the  model  boy,  than  that  tha 
son  of  a  London  ironmonger  did  so.* 

From  a  pedigree  point  of  view,  two  imp(»buit 
discoveries  have  been  made  which  pncticaUy 
complete  the  histoir  of  the  least-known  "  Blue 
Boy  "  as  the  original  picture.  They  are  (1)  that 
Nesbitt,  the  owner  of  the  original  "  Blue  Boy," 
in  4the  beginning  of  the  century,  had  the  ne- 
ture  with  him  at  Heston  between  1816  and  1820, 
where  it  seems  to  have  been  a  well-known  pic- 
ture, and  (2)  that  Hall,  so  long  the  owner  of 
the  least-known  "  Blue  Boy,"  purchased  it  ts  the 
original,  with  its  pedigree  complete,  the  Prince  of 
Wales  portion  indudwl,  and  lued  tbe  informatian 
thus  obtained,  no  doubt  &om  Nesbitt,  as  autbo- 
ritaUve  proof  for  stating  openly  on  every  oppor- 
tunitv  tliat  his  was  the  original  "Blue  Boy,  and 
the  Grosvenor  picture  only  a  copy  of  it  Hall's 
statement,  it  is  said,  reacned  the  notice  of  the 
late  Maiquis  of  'Westminster,  and  ted  him  to 
make  inquiries  about  the  "  Blue  Boy's  "  history, 
as  if  there  was  a  loose  screw,  from  Mr.  R(^«ia, 
the  poet  and  collector  of  works  of  art,  soma 
twenty-two  years  ago.  In  connection  with  this 
matter,  there  is  an  incongruous  "Blue  Boy"  story 
fathered  on  Rogers,  which  we  would  like  U>  know 
if  any  of  your  readers  ever  heard  him  mention. 
It  is,  t^ftt  Rogers  bought  the  original  "  Bins 
Boy  "  at  a  sale,  let  Hoppner  have  it  to  copy,  and 
that  Boppner  dishonorably  and  surrenlitiouslTSoU 
the  original  to  Earl  Grosvenor — a  lioel  douDtless 


yt 


botfi  gentlemen,  as  it  is  known  to  he  on  Hop| 
ner,  who  did  not  sell  the  original  "  Blue  Boy  t 
Elarl  Groevenor.  To  us  it  appears  to  be  merely  ft 
pervernon  of  facts,  havinrnothing  whatever  to  do 
with  the  original  "Blue  Boy,"  put  forward  as  a 
forlorn  defence  of  the  damagea  pedigree  of  the 
best-known  "  Blue  Boy ; "  but  if  wrong  we  will 
be  k1^  to  be  corrected. 

Briefly  these  facts  are :— (1.)  Rogers'  much  en- 

Eed  and  spoken  about  purchase  of  "  Puck  "  by 
ynolds — notthe"BlueDoy"  by  Gainsborough — 
at  a  sale,  where  Lord  Famborough  and  Dance  the 

Eainter  were  with  him,  after  haying  all  break- 
isted  at  his  reudence;  and  (2}  the  quarrel  be- 
tween Rogers  and  Hoppner,  not  about  the  "Blue- 
Boy,"  but  an  artist  whom  the  former  desired  to- 
become  a  member  of  the  Council  of  Trent  Ctub> 
but  was  strongly  opposed  by  the  latter,  who 
bitterly  reproacned  Rogers  for  this  deidre,  whiclv 
led  Rogers  to  say  of  Hoppner,  "  He  has  an  awf\il 
temper — the  most  spiteful  person  I  ever  knew." 


*  A  fool-nota  of  dnbiooa  origia  in  £dwaTd>'i^iHcidrya 
ofPainitTt  eppean  to  be  the  nle  anttaority  for  usinK  the 
name  of  ButUll.  either  aa  the  model  or  the  owner  of  Uw 
original  "Blae  Bar."  But  this  itileht  have  been  added 
■Iter  the  death  of  £dw*idB  in  Decemba,  1S06,  and  when 
the  work  wae  going  tbroogh  the  pree*  in  1S07:  for,  ac- 
cording to  the  Groevenor  Gallery  atatemente.  that  pie- 
tore  wai  then  in  exlaCeoo^  even  if  annotioed  by  Edward*. 


*»aTU.iuiicni8.'7i.]         NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


But  to  i«tiiTii  to  Hall :  it  ia  certMn  that  he  waa 
proud  of  hia  ''  Blue  Boy  "  on  account  of  bis  roja] 
'antecedenta,  which  he  took  cats  should  be  known, 


waa  so  catalogued  after  cia  death.  In  thia  waj 
the  dead  was  unwittingly  mada  to  bear  evidence 
that  when  living  he  knew  well  thet  the  picture 
had  once  belonged  to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  and 
coneequentlj  that  it  waa  the  celebrated  on^nal 
"  Blue  Boj,"  well  worth  160(K  to  keep  ana  not 
toaelL 

Another  and  a  satisfactoir  proof  of  the  origi' 
naliW  of  the  least-known  "  Btae  B07  "  appenred  a< 
the  Winter  Exhibition  of  the  Rajtl  Academj  ir 
the  form  of  a  verj  fine  Gainsborough,  recently 
valued  for  legacy  duty  at  1500/.  It  ia  No.  102  in 
the  Catalogue,  and  ia  a  companion  picture  to  the 
least-known  "Blue-clad,"  in  the  description  of 
canvas  med,  in  the  ver^  thin  but  brilliaut  water- 
colour-like  atvle  of  painting  so  cbaracteriatic  of 
OainsboroDgh  a  portraits  painted  at  Bath,  and  even 
in  their  ground-plan,  the  pictures  differing  little 
more  than  necessary  for  the  positionB  and  dresaes 
of  those  represented. 

This  lest  picture,  as  it  may  be  called,  contains 
the  portruts  of  the  Countess  of  Sussex  and  her 
daughter,  I«df  Barbara  Yelverton,  afterwards 
Baroaesa  de  Ruthyn,  aa  lent  for  the  Exhilntion 
by  the  Conntees  of^Loudon. 

Now,  exactly  a  century  ago  OunsboroQgh  ex< 
hibited  this  very  picture  at  the  Royal  Academy 
the  year  after  be  had  exhibited  the  "  Blue  Boy, 
therefore  a  aimilarity  of  materials  and  "  hand- 
wridag"  might  he  expected  and  ia  found. 

Tried  by  this  teat,  the  Qroayenot  "Blue  Boy  " 
hardly  looks  a  Gainsborough.  The  canvas  is  dif- 
ferent, the  vehicle  different,  the  painting  thicker, 
the  colouring  less  delicately  managed,  and  the 
general  effect  disappointing. 

But  place  the  least-known  "Slue  Boy"  by  the 
side  of  the  ladies,  and  they  will  have  met,  per- 
haps, more  than  their  match  in  general  attractive- 
ness, hut  in  materials  and  execution  they  would 
stand  forth  a  well-matched  pair,  to  prove  a  common 
artistic  paternity,  in  a  very  convincing  maimer. 

Before  proceoiling  with  the  history  of  the  "Bine 
Boy,"  it  may  be  as  well  to  give  a  description  of 
the  two  pictures,  and  the  chief  differences  be- 
tween them.  Some  of  these  differences  have  been 
noticed  in  your  columns,  but  the  exhibition  of  the 
OroevenoT  "Blue  Boy"  last  year  at  the  Royal 
Academy,  and  subsequently  at  South  Kensington, 
has  enabled  a  satiafactory  comparison  of  the  two 
pictures  to  be  mode  by  competent  judges. 

Endeavours  to  bring  about  a  public  sida-by-side 
competition  between  them  have  failed,  owmg  to 
the  ahyness  of  the  beet-known  "  Boy  "  to  enter 
tba  list*  afpunst  the  other. 

Th«  di&rence  in  the  shades  of  the  blue  coloun 


of  the  chivalrous  yonns  athletes  of  Oxford  and 
Cambridge,  who  annually  contend  for  the  "Blue 
Riband  of  rowing,  is  well  known ;  ajid  as  with 
these  colours,  so  with  the  two  pictures — one  of 
them  presents  a  darker  and  older  apprarance  than 
the  other.  They  might  therefore  ae  distinguished 
as  Idght  Slat  and  Dark  Bbu. 

But  there  is  a  depth  and  delicacy  of  light  and 
shade  about  the  olaei^looldng  picture  wnich  ia 
not  found  on  the  other;  and  the  colour  on  the. 
figure  of  the  former,  if  ever  bright  blue,  has  mel- 
lowed pleasingly  in  a  greeniih  direction.  On  tho 
yoimger-looking  "  Boy"  the  colour  ia  paler  and, 
has  a  hardness,  which  ^ves  the  picture,  as  Allov 
Cunningham  said,  "a  somewhat  Btartling"  first 
impreasion  character. 

Connoisseurs  might  therefore  prefer  to  call  the 
lighter  picture  the  "  Pale  Bbte  Bin/,"  as  Leslie  diJ 
when  writing  about  it,  and  the  darker  one  tho 
"Gretn  Blue  Bor/,"  m  it  boa  been  designated. 

The  Liffht  or  Pale  "  Blue  Boy  "  belongs  to  the 
Slarqnis  of  Westminster,  ia  a  well-known  picture, 
and  has  a  eight  size  of  70  inches  by  48  inches. 

The  Dark  or  Green  "Blue  Boy"  has  a  sight 
size  of  71^  inches  by  60^  inches,  but  owing  to- 
the  misfortunes  which  befel  its  owner  in  1802, 
and  drove  both  into  obscurity,  it  is  now  compara- 
tively little  known. 

Modem  descriptions  of  and  eulogiums  on  the 
Grosvenor  "  Blue  Boy  "  are  well  known  and  need 
not  be  epitomised  here.  Itisothemiae,  however, 
with  the  green  "  Blue  Boy,"  now  seen  to  be  the 
original ;  therefore  it  is  proposed  to  quote  two 
descriptions  of  the  original,  when  it  was  known 
as  such,  and  some  of  the  green  "  Blue  Boy,"  com- 
parative and  otherwise. 

The  earliest  description  of  the  orufinal  "  Blue 

Boy"  yet  met  with  has  appeared,  out  m^  be 

repeated.    It  waa  vrritten  m  1802,  by  Hr.  Peter 

Coxe,  for  Neahitt's  sale,  and  is  as  follows  : — 

"  No.  SS. — Gaioaborou^. — A  «hole-l«Dgth  Figure  with 


__.   fint  claw  of.  PainlerB,  both  A 

Uodern.    It  hu  the  Grace  ■udEIeguice  of  Yen  Dyck  in 
the  Figure,  with  ■  Countenance  as  fordblv  expressed  anil 

IS  rich  as  Mnrillo,  with  th( '"'^---      " '- 

a  PiotuTs  which  cannot  bi 
much  idmired." 

The  green  "  Blue  Boy  "  shows  that  this  is  not 
only  not  exaggerated  praise,  bnt  hardly  does  jus- 
tice to  the  present  rich  ripe  attractiveness  of  the 
life-like  presence  on  the  canvas. 

The  second  description  yet  seen  of  the  original 

Blue  Boy  "  was  written  by  Edwards  in  1806, 

about  four  veara  after  Neabitt's  sale,  when  Hopp- 

nei  waa  atjll  the  holder  of  the  picture  for  Nesbitt, 

whose  affairs  were  not  settled  until  about  1816. 

echo  of  the  title  under  which  the  "  Blu9  ^  ^ 
Boy  "  was  catalogued  in  1770,  this  description  is 
at  once  historical  end  highly  hndatory. 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


EdmidB  detcribes  the  ^ctara  a«  "  A  whole- 
kngtli  portiait  of  &  Tonna;  gantUaun  "  —  exactly 
«c«tel<wueduil770— "meVudjckdnM" — as 
ezpUned  in  1770  hj  Miu  Moaei^ 

•■  Which  buobUlmdUMIftlc  of  the  'Blue  Bor'fnim 
tha  coloDT  of  the  mUii  In  «4ilch  tba  flgnn  ii  iliiiMimt 


This  shows  conclnsWely  that  whatever  "  Blue 
or  "  the  firat  Earl  OrosrenoT,  who  died  in  1803, 
dpuichase,  it  could  not  be  the  onginal  picture 
which,  four  jearo  afterwanda,  was  in  the  hauda  of 


H< 


,  that  high,  if  not  highest 
of  living  authorities  on  Gunaborough'e  "  hand- 
writing/' R.  J.  Lane,  Esq.,  A,R.A.,  waa  the  next 
to  exprese,  in  1809,  an  opinion  on  the  green,  or 
original  "  Blue  Boy."  This  opinion  has  anpeared 
in  yout  pages,  but  with  a  sentence  acciaentally 
omitted  (about  the  colouring)  which  is  now  sup- 
plied:— 

"  I  bare,"  i>;i  Hr-  Lane,  "  oanfully  examined  the 
[netnre  (tbe  green  Blae'clad.}    The  igan  ia  moie  ele- 

Sint  than  Ehe  Groaveaor  pictnie — tbe  colaaring  clearer — 
e  chancUr  or  tlie  face  far  more  pleasing — the  mlnateat 
tooebes  of  tbe  mbordioate  parti  palpably  Gainabro's." 

Ijke  Mr.  Coxe,  who  wrote  sixh-seTen  years 
preTiously,  Mr.  Lane  selects  the  elegance  of  the 
figure  and  the  beauty  of  the  face  for  epedal 
pTai«e,  and  well  they  merit  it. 

Hear,  also,  -what  an  able  art  critie,  commenting 
on  the  facts  which  appeared  in  "  N.  &  Q.,"  and 
who  carefully  examined  the  "Green  Blue"  be- 
fore he  wrote,  s^s  in  The  Graphic  '  about  the  green 
"  Blue  Boy's  "  face : — 

"  U,"  tmja  the  critie,  "  tbia  newty-diacovered  '  Blue 
B^'is  not  bj  GaiDsboTDiigh,  by  wbom  ia  it?  Who 
could  imiute  the  wonderful  broBvaf  Who  could  have 
made  the  nd  blood  glow  through  thoea  brown  chedu  ? 


blneiacnide  fAllaaCaii „ 

bo)  and  tbe  folda  of  the  dn»  eripply,  which  certainly  giTM 
an  idea  of  ■  ca|iy  of  (he  ether  pietais  by  a  tolenbly  good 
artiit.  There  ia  alao  another  aign  of  their  not  txhig 
painted  by  the  same  artiat,  which  ia,  in  the  oatuTO  of  the 
vdiicle  lued.  I  oonddar  the  otber  pictiire  (tbe  '  Qnen 
Bloa  Boy ')  contains  the  perfectioii  of  GainabonHigh'a 
colour,  TsUda,  tench,  and  mind,  which  I  must  say  I 
cannot  discorer  in  the  WaMminaui  picture  I  think  if 
they  bad  been  bong  toeetber,BnycauioisHDrwhodidnot 
know  which  was  wMch  would  have  taken  tbe  otiier  for 
the  original  and  the  WcetnuDatar  picture  for  ■  toknbly 
good  copy  of  it." 

hif  h  authority;  after  more  than  one  examina- 
of  Dodi  pictures,  recently  expressed  a  rimilai 
conduaon  in  tlkeae  words : — 

"  I  bare  closely  examined  tha  GnxTenor  '  Blue  Boy*  at 
SoQlh  EeniiDgtou,  and  I  am  firmly  impressed  by  iu  great 
inferiority  to  the  other 'Blue  Boy' in  grace  and  el^ancs 
of  form  and  feature  u  well  aa  in  delicacy  of  eUoar.  I 
think  that  tbe  qualities  which  I  obaarved  in  tbe  other 
picture  ore  atning  STidenoe  of  its  originality ;  and  that  if 
the  two  pictures  Could  be  put  aide  by  siibi,  my  opinion 
woaid  be  piaintainad." 

Decided  as  both  these  opinions  are  in  farour  of 
"  Qreen  Blu&"  it  con  scarcely  be  doubted  that  they 
would  be  fully  confirmed  bj  the  public  generally, 


and  the  Groerenor  "  Blue  E 


"  be  deemed  to  be 


what  Hoppnnr  could  have  done  ;  aa  for  Beechy,  he  only 

imitated  tialDsboiongh'a  landacapea.    Iitbistecood'Btne 

Boy '  to  remain  an  endleaa  craz  lor  modem  art  critics  ?  " 

No,  the  pnxzle  is  solred  in  faronr  of  "  Qreen 

Kne,"  and  of  his  face  it  may  be  fairly  said — 

""Tis  beanty  tmly  blent,  whose  red  and  white 

CauuW*  own  canning  hand  laid  on." 

The  followioK  artistical  comparison  of  the  two 

"  Blue  Boys  "  ^  a  good  j  udge  speaks  for  itself — 

.  "  IiOudon,  Jan.  1870. 

"  GAtHSBOBODOH's  <  Blds  Bot.' — Having  seen  by 
Tit  TifUt  that  Uie  Westminster  '  Blae  Boy '  naa  at  the 
B.A.,  I  went  to  tee  and  examine  It,  as  I  had  preiioosly 
lean  and  examined  theother  picture,  which  has,  I  mj^r 
B^,  both  tbe  body  and  eool  of  Gainsborough.   1  certainly 


comperatiTely  a  meaner-looking  and  less-attnc- 
tive  picture. 

SIjU  moie  recently  a  connoissemr  of  high  repu- 
tation as  a  judge  of  paintere'  handwriting-— a 
correspondent  of  yours  of  many  years'  stantog, 
who  took  much  interest  in  the  former  discusrion, 
went  with  s  friend  to  see  and  criticise  the  "  Qreen 
Blue  Boy."  The  result  was  warm  praise,  for  he 
arrived  at  the  conTiotion  that  the  picture  was  by 
far  the  finest  Qaineboiough  he  had  ever  seen,  and 
he  would  venture  to  say  the  fineet  of  hia  works  in 
existence,  as  it  strongly  reminded  him  of  a  bigh- 
claas  Velasquez. 

In  conclusion,  at  present  the  artistic  chanuter 
of  the  "Green  Blue  Boy"  may  be  summed  up, 
not  at  all  inaptly,  as 

"  Perfected  lavelloese.  All  the  hanneniea 
Of  fbrm,  of  feature,  and  of  lonl  displayed, 
In  the  bright  creiUiam" 

J.  Sbwbu- 

Tha  Lombard,  E.C. 


BBITISH  SCYTHED  CHARIOTS:  MES.MABKHAM. 
(4*»S.vii.95.) 

Mr.  Trollope'a  not«  in  his  edition  of  Catar't 
CommadatieM,  deoving  the  truth  of  the  stereo- 
typed statement  tnat  the  ancient  Britons  armed 
their  war  duuioU  vilA  tcylhet,  deserves  to  bo 
thoron^ly  discaaeed  before  being  accepted  as  cor- 
rect In  the  first  placo,  we  have  the  evidence  of 
Bit^uud  of  Cirencester,  who  Skys : — 

-  The  Britoni  not  only  fimjht  on  foot  and  on  hotse- 
baok,  bat  In  ohaiiola  drawn  by  two  benaa,  and  armed  In 


4«  8.  TIL  Much  18, 71.]  NOTES  AND  QTJEBIES. 


241 


»  GilUe  Dunner.      Thoa  eharioti  to  the  ula-treM  of 
irhicb  tegtha  wera  fixed  iran  eilled  cmnai  or  iriiiu." 

This  passage  I  quote  from  Dr.  Giles's  edition  of 
Six  O/dEngliih  Chronidet  (Bolu,  London,  1866), 
yrho  appends  the  following  note : — 
.  "  ne  Britonl,  bawever,  tppeai  to  havs  davioed  an  ini' 
piovemcDt  in  lhi»  moda  of  warfare,  which  was  ankcawn 
to  the  Ote^ka,  Their  chariots  Mem  to  have  been  of  two 
kinds — the  eovini  or  waiDSiheavy  and  armed  with  n^thei, 
to  break  the  thickest  order  of  the  enamy;  aad  the 
atida,  ■  lighter  kind,  adapted  pn^bly  to  aUuBtiona  and 
drcnmitaiices  io  which  the  eocnu  could  not  act,  and 
occaalonallr  perfhiming  datlea  of  cavaliy." — F.  426. 

Dr.  Oilea  does  not  seem  to  doubt  the  Teracity 
of  Richard  of  Cirencester,  although  in  his  preface 
he  rejects  other  of  hie  productions  as  Talueless ; 
but  to  that  on  the  "  ancient  atate  of  Britain,"  from 
-which  I  have  made  the  above  extract,  he  attaches 
«ome  importance. 

Mr.  TroUope  of  course  can  select  whom  he 
|>lea8eH  to  vent  his  displeasure  upon ;  but  in  jus* 
tica  to  the  excellent  Mrs.  Msrkbam,  and  also  the 
much-honoured  Eugene  Sue,  I  cannot  refnin  &om 
«zpressiDg  my  astonishment  at  this  kind  at  fair 
wlection,  whereby  he  proceeds  to  disabus«  the 
popular  mind  of  the  so-called  delusion.  Surely 
he  ought  to  have  castiMted  Richard  of  Cirences- 
ter and  his  English  e£tor,  but  in  doing  this  be 
Tould  have  to  encounter  another  excellent  au- 
thori^,  who  is  equally  guilty  of  this  just  dis- 
COTered  crime.  Mr.  Trands  Palgrave,  in  his 
HiMory  of  England  (Anglo-Saxon  period),  says, 
in  Bpeftkingoftbe  valour  of  the  ancient  Britons; — 

"  Bat  the  valonr  of  the  Britons  wsa  dispUred  on  land ; 
they  were  brave  and  sturdy  warriors  \  and  when  they 
went  forth  to  combat  they  lode  in  chariota  with  blidea  of 
•cythea  fixed  to  the  aile-tieea  of  the  wheels.  Engafnd  in 
bUtle,  they  arged  their  horsea  (o  their  utmost  speed,  and 
the  sharp  edges  of  the  scrtbes  mowed  down  the  eaemT." 
P.  6. 

Neither  Tacitus  nor  Ciesar  notices  the  scythed 
chariots,  hut  it  does  not  follow  that  there  were 
none  in  use  at  one  time. 

I  cannot  imagine  that  three  distinct  authorities 
heeidra  Mra.  Marhham  and  Eugene  Sue  could 
b«Te  been  led  into  one  common  mistake,  unless 
it  can  be  proved  that  aU  the  modem  writers  have 
been  misled  by  lUchard  of  Cirencester,  who  of 
coarse  must  be  shown  to  be  in  error.  The  onut 
of  this  task  devolves  upon  Mr.  Trollope.  I  am 
sure  tliat  many  will  feel  extnmely  ^teful  to 
him  should  he  undertake  this ;  none  more  so  than 
J.  JzssuuH,  Juir. 


THE  COMPLETION  OF  ST.  PAUL'S  CATHEDRAL. 

(4'"  8.  vii.  186.) 

I  obseire  in  "  N.  &  Q."  that  a  rumour — only  a 

rnmonr,  I  hope — aa  t«  the  intended  anmngement 

-with  regard  tc  the  o^an  ^  St  Fanl'i  Oathadial 


ie  referred  to  as  a  matter  i<a  extreme  satisfitdiQn : 
"the  position  of  the  organ  has  been  dedded  aa 
only  it  should  have  been."  It  is  to  stand,  we  are 
informed,  affunst  the  blank  walls ,  where  now 
stand  the  Nelson  and  Comwallis  mojiumenta. 

To  say  that  the  ultimate  success  of  all  future 
operations  in  this  work  depends  up(Ai  the  position 
of  the  organ — aa  if  folks  were  to  go  to  church  to 
hear  the  onan,  or  liaten  to  the  music — is  too 
ridiculous  \  but  setting  aside  this  question,  it  is 
quite  suffident  to  condemn  the  project  if  ,tha 
architectural  effect  it  will  produce  is  considered. 

A  large  sum  of  money  has  been  expended  in 
the  purtSiase  of  a  powerful  or^an,  and  m  placing 
it  in  a  good  pontdon  acoustically.  Now  it  u 
coolly  suggested  to  do  away  witli  all  this,  and 
using  up  uie  materials  of  the  choir  and  transept 
o^ans,  to  make  one  mighty  whole,  which  is  to  be 
placed  in  the  narToweet  part  of  the  cathedral,  w 
as  to  make  that  which  is  already  far  too  email 
conuderably  less. 

I  am  sure  that  no  lovei'of  organs  would  dedre 
that  Father  Smith's  venerable  instrument,  which 
with  its  recent  additions  is  a  very  perfect  and 
beautifnl  work,  should  be  engulfed  by  the  tran- 
sept organ,  excellent  as  that  ma^  he ;  and  when 
we  read  of  " cooeiderable  additions" — the  two 
instruments  together,  without  additions,  'would 
give  us  eighty  stops  at  least — ^the  practiul  que*- 
tdon  of  the  amount  of  room  such  a  leviathan 
would  occupy  becomes  very  important 

As  I  have  already  remarked,  the  position  sud 
to  have  been  selected  is  that  point  at  which  the 
main  avenue,  running  through  the  cathedral  from 
east  to  -west,  is  most  contracted.  It  is  there  little, 
if  at  all,  over  forty  feet  in  width.  No  amount  of 
piling  up,  even  to  the  springing  of  the  roof,  could 
reduce  the  organ  itself  to  a  less  projection  than 
five  feet  from  the  wall,  and  this  on  both  sides 
would  reduce  the  centre  passage  by  some  ten 
feet;  leaving  for  the  communicatiDn  between  a, 
dome  of  over  one  hnndred  feet  in  diameter,  and  a 
choir  more  then  forty  feet  in  width,  a  restricted 
opening  probably  not  thirty  feet  wiae. 

How  exceedingly  bad  this  is,  I  need  not  point 
out  Your  correspondent  is  of  opinion  that  two 
choin  are  necessary  for  the  serricea  of  the  cathe- 
dral, and  I  quite  agree  with  him;  but  I  do  not 
think  we  are  at  all  of  the  same  mind  as  to  bow 
this  arrangement  ehould  be  effected. 

I  have  gone  into  this  question  veiy  thoroughly, 
but  will  not  occupy  your  columns  by  repeating 
here  what  is  full;  entered  into  by  me  in  ooi^unc- 
tion  with  Mr.  J.  T.  Mickletbwaite  in  the  first 
number  of  The  Saerutf/,  to  which  I  would  re&r 
Y.  G.  E.  SoKKBS  Clabkb,  Juk. 

8,  Delahay  Street,  Great  George  Street 

[Byiefbrenee  to  Ilka  7%-m  irf  WedDeadn- laat  It  wfD  < 
be  seen  that  T.  a  £.  was  correct  in  his^atMoment  as  t» 
the  dedalan  with  regard  to  *  " 


243 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.         r4*8.Tn.  iIabchib.-ti. 


SIB  WILLIAM  ROUEB.  KNT. 
(4*  S.  L,  W.,  y.,  Ti.  poMim:  tu.  82, 166.) 
As  this  discuscdoQ  ia  wnxing  personal,  and  the 
real  point  getting  lost  taffht  of,  periiaps  a  word 
firom  tbe  original  ruser  mav  do  pennitted  in 
the  hope  of  clo«ng  it.*  I  thiok  we  may  con- 
clude that  the  late  Mb.  Roreb  of  Dundee  and 
hia  son  Ms.  J.  C.  Rooek  had  been  misled  hj 
"  some  person  or  persons  unknown  "  in  the  matter 
of  the  three  caeli  of  seals,  aod  induced  b^  these 
'■iocogniti"  to  favour  the  idea  of  Si  connection  be- 
tween tbe  unfortunate  musician  "Sir  WiUiam" 
No.  1,  his  (unknown  elsewhere)  son,  "  Sir  "Wil- 
liam "  No.  2,  and  the  parish  of  Galston  in  Ajr- 
Bhite;  while  Dr.  Boqers  has  shown  (4*  S.  vi. 
483)  that  "individusls  of  the  name,  not  of 
knightl}'  rank,  did  exist  in  tbe  sixteenth  centurj 
in  the  neighbouring  parish  of  Ochiltree.  Not  s 
vestige  of  proof  has  been^adduced  to  supply  the 
remsrkable  diBappefttanee  of  the  two  deeds,  to 
which  the  original  seals  are  said  to  have  been 
attached.  The  phraseologj  in  which  tho^e  deeds 
are  mentioned,  and  tbe  names  of  the  parties  con- 
cerned (sea  4"-  S.  i.  458),  convince  me  that  they 
are  fictitious,  if  indeed  thej  ever  existed  as  fic- 
tions. If  so,  the  seak  go  too.  But  even  these 
contain  internal  evidence  of  their  worthlessnesa. 
I  did  not  mention  it  at  the  time,  but  remarked  to 
myself  the  curious  way  in  which  the  legend  of 
each  "cast"  supplies  something  wanting  in  tbe 

other.  Thus  the  first  is,  "S'  Wilelmi ";  the 

second  is,  "  S'  .  .  .  .  Roger  " ;  and  the  third,  the 
fictitious  son's,  blazes  forth'in  full—"  S'  W  . .  . . 
Roger  Mil."  The  "unknown"  manufacturer  of 
these  has  been  an  adept  at  his  trade.  Yet  Ur.  H. 
I^ng  evidently  had  aouhts  of  their  authenticity, 
as  I  pointed  out  in  my  first  communication. 

Mr.  J.  C.  RooBBs's  assertion  that  Deucbar 
"  forged  "  a  coat  of  anna  for  the  reverend  pariah 
minister  of  Dunino,  is  scarcely  wamn table. 
"Forging  a  coat"  I  take  to  mean,  asserting  that 
it  waa  conferred  at  some  mythical  period,  or  for 
some  mythical  exploit,  or  on  some  fictitious 
ancestor  of  its  wearer,  but  honestiy  "  making  up  " 
a  new  one  is  a  very  different  thing.  The  taste  of 
such  a  proceeding  mar  be  another  question  ;  but 
in  the  early  part  of  the  present  century  the  Lyon 
Office  itself  perpetrated  many  grievous  blunders, 
known  to  the  initiated  as  "Prince  Regent" 
heraldry,  and  Deucbar  simply  followed  in  their 
wake.  I  quite  agree  with  Mb.  Rosbb  in  his 
estimate  of  some  of  these  books,  and  am  rather 
amused  at  his  information  that  the  coat  which  we 
have  been  discussing  had  been  appropriated  by 
the  late  Glasgow  wood-merchant  of  the  name, 
who  probably  knew  nothing,  and  cared  less,  about 
ita  (presumed)  first  wearer,  "  Sir  WiUiam," 

Aiieut-ScoTnB. 


immnoloition  must  cIom  )c— Ed.  "N.  A  Q-" 


ENGLISH  DESCE.VT  OP  DANIEL  Q-COKSELL, 

(4'»  S.  iii.  75.) 
Bearing  in  mind  the  truthful  remark  cJ  Mr. 
Edwards  in  the  first  aentenco  of  his  Life  of  SA- 
WalUr  Rakigh,  that  "Whatever  may  be  the 
triumphs  which  tbe  future  keeps  in  store  far 
democracy,  the  pedigree  of  a  famous  man  will 
never  quite  lose  ita  interest,"  I  crave  the  favour 
of  space  in  "  N.  &  Q."  to  correct  a  misatatament 
of  Mr.  Maurice  Lenihan's  respecting  what  he  calls 
the  "pure  Celtic  blood"  of  the  "exclusively  in- 
digenous genealo^cal  series "  in  O'Connell'a 
pedigree.  Mr.  Lenihan's  acquaintance  with  Celtic 
genealogies  is,  I  believe,  most  extensive,  and  mj 
own  is  very  slight ;  still,  in  common  with  th« 
majority  of  the  inhabitants  of  Daniel  O'Conuell'a 
native  county,  I  know  very  well  that  he  was  the 
direct  and  immediate  descendant  of  a  lady  of 
English  race,  through  whom  he  inherited  th« 
blood  of  Jeukia  Conway  and  Ekimund  Roe,  Eliia- 
bethan  undertakers  (and  also,  I  believe,  the  blood 
of  Sir  James  Ware  the  elder),  and  was  not  very 
distantly  related  to  a  number  of  Anglo-Irish  and 
Proteatant  families  in  Munster  at  the  present  day. 
In  Cronelly's  Hiiton/  of  the  GaedhaU,  and  in  all 
other  published  genealogies  of  tbe  O'Connell 
familv  that  I  have  ever  seen,  it  is  distinctly 
stated,  that  the  great-great-grandmother  of 
Dsniel  O'Connell  was  a  member  of  the  Anglo- 
Norman  family  of  Segrave,  and  that  his  great- 
grandmother  was  Elizabeth  Conway,  tbe  grand- 
daughter of  a  Captain  James  Conway,  who  came 
to  Kerry  after  the  Restoration,  and  married 
Elizabetn  Roe,  the  only  child  and  heiress  of 
Edmund  Roe,  of  Cloghane,  County  Kerry,  the 
above-mentioned  undertaker.  Edmund  Roe  had 
married  the  only  daughter  of  Jenkin  Conway, 
whose  castle  of  Killorglin,  granted  to  him  by 
Elizabeth,  with  S,260  acres,  including  the  beautiful 
island  of  Innisfallen,  is  mentioned  in  Facata 
Hibemia.  1  doubt  if  a  single  instance  could  be 
brought  forward  by  the  most  enthusiastic  and 
learned  admirer  oCuie  Irish  "pure  Celt,"  of  even 
one  man  of  that  race  who  achiered  real  greatnesa 
in  literature,  science,  art,  political  or  military  life. 
The  great  men  of  Ireland  have  been  the  men  of 
mixed  race— the  greatest,  as  Swift,  Goldsmith, 
Wellington,  &c,  have  had  but  a  very  slight 
share  of  Celtic  blood,  if  any  at  all.  This  is  not 
tbe  assertion  of  partial  bigotry  regarding  rr""  '~- 


Ireland  and  the  uish.  I  admit  that  in  former 
times  the  Irish  Celt  was  beavilj^  and  unfurly 
weighted  in  the  race  for  fiune.  hut  it  ulong  since 
his  last  and  least  burden  has  been  removed,  and 
yet  he  ia  still  behindhand ;  while  the  one  hero 
Dearing  a  Celtic  name  of  whom  the  Irish  Celts 
are  moat  proud,  glorying  in  him  as  their  repr»- 


4*aviLMABCBi8,7i.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


243 


Bentative  mui — "Iruh,"  bsts  Mr.  Lenihan  "in 
«TeT7  element  of  his  beiDg,  nead,  lieait,  blood  1 " 
ia  no  "  pure  biah  Celt "  at  all — but,  there  is  email 
donbt,  iDberitad  hu  clear-heRdeduesa,  foresif^lit^ 
indomitable  energy,  and  perseverance,  from  the 
«ble  if  wmewbat  unscrupulous  Elizabetban  under- 
taken aud  Kentiah  ana  Yorkshiie  colonists  of 
Ireland  in  the  sixteenth  century.  H. 


the  words  "  Ssmuel 
iroe  in  December, 
J  AXES  PrcEon. 


Dr.  Johnson's  Watch  (4*  S.  ti.  275,  465; 
^i.  65.) — This  wateh  is  in  m;  posBessioii.  My 
mother  was  niece  to  the  sister  ofOeorge  Steeretis, 
which  ffister  inherited  this  watch  with  the  rest  of 
George  Steevena's  property.  It  is  a  metal  watch 
with  a  tortoiseshell  caae ;  no  maker's  name.  The 
dial  is  inscribed,  as  mentioned  by  Soswell,  with 
the  words  n(  tup  lexT",  "  for  the  ni){ht  cometh." 
Boswell  aajB  the  dial-plate  was  given  to  Steevena. 
It  seems  unlikely  that  thedial  should  be  separated 
from  the  doctor's  watch,  to  which  it  evidently 
belonged,  snd  which  was  worn  by  hi  "" 
■watch  also  haa  inside  the  —  '""  —  ' 
Johnson,  London,  1784.' 
1784,  that  Johnson  died. 

BrightOD,  Jan.  30,  IS7i. 

fW«  rwret  that  tfaia  reply  has  aecldentallv  been  de- 
Ujed—Ec.  ■■  N.  A  Q."] 

Staup  on  PicnniB  Cautas  (4"  S.  vii.  97, 
196.) — What  occurred,  to  my  recollection,  will  be 
found  in  S'"  &  y.  141,  1864,  on  "  Stamp  Duties 
on-  Painten^  Canvas,"  by  J.  H.  Buiur,  in  answer 
to  a  communication  under  the  aame  heading  in 
8^  S.  T.  99,  from  L.  F.  N.,  where  the  exciae  mark 
10  Riven  in  letterpreaa,  and  not  as  an  engraving, 
M  I  have  stated  at  p.  195.       Axbsrt  Buttbki, 

Court  of  Cbsncery. 

[We  are  obligedby  Ihiaconection.  In  the  fifth  Tolama 
•r  oar  Third  Series  will  be  found  a  qoerj  by  L.  F.  N.  aa 
to  ibe  period  during  which  palDters'  csnvwes  were 
■(■roped.  This  wu  UHwend  by  Mb.  J.  H.  Buss  at 
p.  141,  who  Btatcd,  buCveij  tncarreclly,  thatthtt  practice 
originated  in  1803,  and  that  any  picture  paieted  on 
■tamped  canvaa  purporting  to  ba  painted  b^  Uaisa- 
boiough  or  Rejaolde  could  cot  therefore  be  genniae  g  bnt 
was  more  correct  ia  atating  that  the  order  for  the  non- 
collection  of  the  duty  wu  ianied  on  March  17,  1831.  Id 
tbe  lame  volume  (p.  182)  J.  K.  S.  writea  to  ahow  that 
Ibe  dalr  exiiUd  from  July  20, 1712-13,  to  March  1831.— 
Ed.  -S.  &  Q."l 

STrLTO  =  0ECTcnE8(S"'  S.  vii.  478;  viii.  178, 
239,  278.)— When  I  introduced  this  subject  to 
the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  some  little  time  ago,  1 
quoted  a  paaaage  from  Kit  Marlowe,  in  which  the 
irord  dills  was  used  synonymously  with  crulchei. 
I  am  now  able  to  give  an  earlier  inatance,  from 
tbe  "  Lvfe  of  Jatrph  of  Armnthia,  printed  by 
Bichwd  Pjnaon  a.d.  1520."  (F.ifeE.E.T.  S., 
No.  44.)  A  woman  waa  taken  to  Qlaatonbunr  for 
tbe  pnrpcse  of  receiving  a  miraculous  cure  of  her 
1 ^  ^^^  f^^  ^^  "Thyder  was  ahe  brooght 


in-to  the  chapel],  verely  she  was  heled,  and  lefts 
her  ttyUei  thore,  and  on  her  fete  wente  home  re- 
Bonably  well."  H.  Fmhwick. 

Elecampamb  (4"'  S.  T.  695 !  vi.  108,  205,  264.) 
For  an  account  of  this  plant,  which  two  of  your 
cairespondenta  say  is  used  medicinally,  see 

"  Botanlcnm  Officinale  \  at,  a  coaipendioa  Herbal  i 
gjvini!  an  account  of  all  anch  FUnta  aa  are  now  ueed  in 
Ibe  Practice  of  Pbyaick,  with  their  deacriptjona  and  vii- 
tue^  by  Joaepb  Miller,"    London,  1722,  p.  185. 

The  copv  of  this  work  now  before  me  exhibits 
in  msny  places  tbe  ravagea  of  that  little  insect 
the  bookworm,  so  lately  introduced  instructively 
into  your  pages.  J.  Makdel. 

Boox  Orm  AMENTA  HON  (4**  S.  vi.  567  j  vii.  Ill, 
147.) — The  fashion  of  painting  over  and  under 
the  gold  leaf  on  the  edges  of  books  is  tin  old  one. 
I  have  seen  MSS.  with  illuminated  edges  (ths 
palterns  being  like  the  floreated  bordera)  as  early 
as  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  century.  I  have  a 
Bible  (London,  printed  by  E,  T.  for  a  society  of 
stationers,  1656,)  in  old  morocco,  with  the  side 
end  back  inlaid  with  differently  coloured  pieces 
of  about  the  aame  date.  Under  the  gold  in  the 
front  b  a  large  heart  surronnded  with  flowers  and 
fruity  and  bearing  an  inscription.  Of  about  the 
aame  date,  I  think,  was  a  Bible  for  sale  m  a 
London  bookseller's  catalogue  not  veiy  long  since, 
which  had  an  excellent  picture  of  tbe  Last  Supper 
under  the  gold.  J.  C.  J. 

La  Cabacole  (4"'  S.  viL84,  149.)— Corocofa 
was  a  word  adopted  from  the  military.  It  is  thus 
explained  in  the  Vocabolario  degti  Accademicidella 
CniMca.  I  cannot  find  an  etymological  derivation 
ofit:— 


imo  a  sommo  (from  the'rear  to  the  front'ra 
Intio  seiei." 

C.  C. 
Who  is  a  LaiedP  (4*  8.  vi.  482;  ™.  12, 
176.)  — Sir  George  Mackenzie  (Works,  vol.  ii. 
p.  683)  says:— 

"Such  as  did  bold  their  lands  of  the  prince  were 
called  fojnii ,-  but  euch  bb  bald  their  Unda  of  a  antyect, 
tbougfa  tbey  were  large,  and  Ibetr  anperlor  very  noble, 
were  only  railed  goodmn,  from  tbe  old  French  word  ton 
Aoflmu,  which  waa  the  title  of  the  maater  of  the  family." 
Sir  George's  day  the  distinction 
desuetude,  and  last  century  every 
Scottiah  landowner  was  called  "  the  laitd  "  and 
bis  wife  >'  the  lady."  But  a  distinction  was 
made,  and  is  still  observed,  between  the  "  many- 
acred  "  laird  and  the  "  little "  or  bonnet-laira. 
The  former  was  styled  thus:  "  the  Laiid  of  Keir," 
"the  Laird  of  Dnun,''&c.;  the  latter  merely  had 
the  title  prefixed  to  his  surname,  «.  o.  "Laird 
Black,"  "Laird  Brown,"  &c  My  Mend  DB.iIp 
RosBBs'  remark,  that  "in  the  Scottish  'inquisi*  S 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [i*s.vii.  Uarcb  18.71. 


)  beloiuing  to  another  man  F  and  if, 
allied,  he  Be  oaly  the  desceDdant  of 


X  of  Coupeigiaoge 


younger 
lepresenta- 


ti[»u '  domiruu  frequenUj  precedes  «  name  which 
ha*  jwrtioRornM  after  it,    is  new  to  me,  and  per- 
haps he  will  substantiate  it  hj  a  few  ezamplea. 
Abslo-Scoits. 

I  am  ctediblj'  informed  that  the  patemal  grand- 
father of  the  Rxv.  Dk.  Rooibs  had  an  elder  brother 
whoee  aurrinng  daughter  married  a  fanner  of  the 
name  of  West,  and  miose  son,  Mr.  Williiun  West 
is  farmer  in  Mayri^s.  By  the  Scottish  law  of 
sncceesion,  the  portion  of  Coapargrange  which 
belonged  to  the  Rogers,  had  it  continned  in  the 
&mily,  would  now  be  in  the  po»ession  of  Mr. 
West.  TbiabeiDgthecaM,bowcouldDa.B«aBB8, 
"without  preaunptioii,"  take  a  title  torn    " 

■  ■    '  loDoing  --       -■^'-  '  -    '  "    - 

^     ,  le  he  oa 

tiye  of  the  "  portic  .    „      „ 

los. 

KeoftlDg1«ii  Gardois. 

"Thodoh  Lost  to  Sishi,  to  Mkhobt  dbak" 
(l'*a.  iv.;  S-'S.  vi.,  viii.;  4-^  S.  i.,  iv.pMsim; 
rii.  66, 173.) — Like  all  your  other  correspondents 
I  hare  fiuled  to  find  the  origin  of  the  above  lioe ; 
but  the  following  bit  of  information  may,  perhaps, 
render  tlie  search  for  it  a  little  eauer.  Some  time 
ance,  I  meotiooed  the  query  respecting  it  to  a 
relative  now  dead,  who  ii^ormed  me  that,  though 
she  was  unable  to  say  where  th'   "  --.-■  — 

occurred,  she  knew  that  the  o 

"The  absent  claim  a  righ— the  dead,  a  tear." 

This  would  show  that  "Though  lost  to  ught,  to 

memory  dear,"  is  not  a  whole  line,  but  only  the 

laet  four  feet  of  an  ordinary  fiTO-foot  iambic  rerse. 

W.  A.  SiDOT. 

Newark. 


Rbt.  S.  HstOKT's  Ekoubh  ' 
=    --ii.  36,  113,  1" 
e  other  hand,  s 


"Vathkk"  (i^ 
,  113,  17^— Whether  b^  Henley  or 
r  hand,  an  English  translation  of  Beck- 
ford's  story  had  appeared  prior  to  June  1, 1816; 
iiaa  is  shown  by  the  preface  to  the  first  French 
edition  published  in  Eogland.  As  the  preface  la 
Tery  short  I  annex  it.  The  volume  is  publiahed 
"  A  Loudres,  chei  Clarke,  Mount  Street,  Berkeley 
Square  " : — 

"Let  Editions  de  Paris  et  da  Laaianae  Aant  dsvenas 
•xtrtmement  rana,  J'al  conaanti  enfin  h  ee  quel' 
[inblilt  k  Loodna  ce  petit  oavrage  lei  qua  js  I'a 
Vpti.    La  tradnotion,  oomoie  on  atalt,  a  pain 

roiiginal ;  11  «at  fbrt  ^  de  cralre  one  ce  n'Aolt  pi 

IntaDtlon— das  drwnataiiw^  pen  Int^maaDtaa  pom  le 
pobUc,  an  ODt  <t^  la  oauM.  J'al  pttfpaitf  qnelqiui  Bplaodaa  1 
a»  sont  IndlqnA  k  U  page  300,  oamnia  bisinl  -'^  ' 
Talheo ;  peat^tie  paroltTDDt-ila  on  Ji 

"  1  Jain  IBIE. 


Hie  printer'a  name  appean  at  the  foot  of  the 


HoXLTT,  THB  Qkbjuit  Pobt  (4*  S.  -n.  ITT, 
B8;  Tii.  174.) — Four  translations  from  Hiiltv  are 
printed  in  the  "German  Anthology  "  which  forma 
part  of  PoetM  by  Jama  CUwetux  Mangan,  New 
York,  1869.  The  "  German  Anthology  "  is  sUted 
in  the  introduction  (p.  23J  to  hare  been  collected 
and  pubUahed  in  DuT)lin  m  1845,  under  the  title 
of  Anihologia  Ga-maniea.  T.  W.  C. 

Thb  Deaoom  (4*  8.  Tii.  12, 126, 174.)— I  for- 
ward you  a  few  copies  of  a  lithographed  drawing 
of  the  8l  Bees  dngon. 

The  impost  on  which  it  is  cut  is  one  of  a  very 
Iriah-lookmg  and  early  shape,  and  is,  I  doubt  not, 
ant«-Norman. 

The  dragon  also  of  the  twelfth  centurr,  figured 
in  Mr.  Outts's  Jlfonuof  of  Sepul<^iral  Moaumatti, 
I^te  zxin.,  is  two-legged.       K,  H.  Khowlxs. 

Kenllworth. 

Wbavbr'b  Am  (4"  3.  vii.  67,  149.)— There  is 
not  likely  to  be  found  much  upon  this  subject  in 
our  standard  poets;  it  is  rather  in  the  line  of  our. 
obscures.  Ihaveheardof abookentitledMnenw,- 
or  the  Ai-t  of  Weavuig,  in  Terse,  1677,  which,  if 
to  be  found,  would  Ukely  supply  the  want  of 
R.  P.  Q.  A  much  commoner  Tolume  is  Wtmmg 
SpirituaUted,  by  the  Rbt.  Dr.  CoUings  of  Nor- 
wich, litao,  London,  1676.  In  the  course  of  his 
sermonimnK,  the  art  generally  is  treated  of,  and 
the  whole  interspersed  with  poetical  moraliungK 

The  editions  of  this  are  very  numerous.  I  have 
myself  some  three  or  four,  and  can  accommodate 
your  correspondents  with  a  sight  of  the  book  if 
desired. 

The  weaver's  occupation  is  favourable  to  the 
cultivation  of  the  muse,  and  I  doubt  not  many 
examples  might  be  found  of  his  art  rendered  into 

Here  is  one  at  hand.  James  Maxwell,  "  poet 
in  Ptdsley,"  who  in  earlier  life  published  at  Bir- 
mingham, 1766,  Divine  Mitommie*,  in  which, 
under  the  head  of  "  Weavers'  Meditations,"  be 
moralises  in  Terse,  and  in  a  Hogarth-like  frontis- 
piece represents  himself  as  the  ouligent  apprentice 
at  the  loom : — 

"  Ln !  hoe  'tnlzt  heaven  and  earth  I  siring, 
And  wbilat  the  abattle  ewKUy  flies, 
With  ehearfnl  heart  I  work  and  ring. 
And  envy  none  beneath  the  ekhs." 
He  is,  however,  I  find,  altogether  spiritual,  and 
does  not,  like  Br.  C,  "  raise  heavenlv  meiUtationa 
from  the  several  parts  of  their  work. '         A.  Q. 

SmiBWOBX  (4*  S.  vi.  B02 ;  vij.  26, 161.)— -The 
plant  I  am  inquiring  for  may  very  probably  ba 
that  referred  to  bv  F.  C.  H.  O^IuritMan) ;  but  I 
am  eorry  to  say  tnat  I  am  nnable  to  identify  it 
&om  his  description.  Con  any  Donet  oorr«»- 
pendent  heln  P  It  is  oertunly  ttat  the  Ader  7W- 
polium,  vita  which  Us.  FxiOact.  appean  to 
connect  it.  Jaiob  Buroif.^' 


«*S.TII;UAB<nilB,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


245 


pndent  a«  a  badf^r'a  hone"  ia  stil 
proverb  in  the  North  of  England.  One  cw  emlj 
undentand  how  a  horse  with  a  comdealer  for  ite 
master  most  be  the  moat  impudoit  of  its  apeciea. 

H.  FiflHWtCK, 

CoBBLBEfl' LiMPB  IK  Italy  {4*  S.TiL  11, 133.) 
Before  the  introduction  of  gas  the  large  globes 
filled  with  water  were  very  commonly  used  by 
framework  knitteni,  pBrticularly  those  making  lace 
or  fine  stockings.  I  dare  aay  that  in  many  parts 
of  the  Midland  Counties  they  are  still  common. 
Ellc^ 

"  QvBKH  AB8E1TIS  "  {4'»  S,  vii.  140.)  —  About 
the  time  this  poem  appeared  (1889)  the  Rev. 
Uatthew  Bridges  lived  at  Babbicombe  (Babba- 
combe  ia  aud  to  be  the  more  correct  orthography), 
and  published  aeveral  poema.  He  was  not  im- 
probably the  author  of  the  poem  ii^  queation. 
Makbochetb  can  earily  ascerttun  this,  no  doubt, 
if  he  thinks  the  scent  irortb  following. 

Wm.  Pkhqellt. 

Toiqiu]'. 

MmntBEa :  Wins  (2"'  S.  t.  ;  ri. ;  lii.  j  S'*  3. 
L;  iy-pamm:  4**  S.  vii.  62,  121.)  — These  come 
every  January  to  Sir  George  Bowyer's  shooting 
cottage  in  Badley  Park.  I  saw  them  there  this 
year ;  they  were  very  well  got  up  with  ahreda  and 
patchea  of  coloured  calico  and  paper  hanginga,  and 
the  parte  of  the  doctor,  the  wounded  man,  and  St 
George  were  enlicted  in  capital  atyle.  The  waits 
also  pay  their  visit ;  theae  are  usually  girls,  who 
come  in  two  parties  from  the  respective  villages 
of  Badley  and  Sunningwell.  Both  waits  and 
mummers  go  the  rounds  of  all  the  farm-houses  on 
the  property.  W.  J.  Bebuhabd  Smith. 

"HiLARios'a  Sbsvakt,  the  Saob  Cbow  "  {4" 
S.  viL  11, 112, 178.)-~The  quotation  is  not  quite 
coitect.  For  six  years,  read  sixty.  It  ia  taken, 
of  comae,  from  St  Jerom'a  Life  of  St.  Paul,  the 
firat  Hermit,  who  relatea  the  miraculoua  incident 
in  these  wotds : — 

"Inter  bu  tennoelDRtionM'suspiciiuit  slitem  ixirvain 
in  nmo  arboru  tmnsedlise  i  qoi  lads  Imlter  subvalans 
iotcgmm  puem  ante  minmtiam  ora  deposnit.  Poat 
cqji*  abwasnm,  'Eia,'  InqaiC  PaoloB,  *DomlDua  nobis 
pnndiuni  miiit,  vers  pins,  vera  miiaricors.  Sexieint* 
Jm  wjni  sont,  CI  ■     "" ^- 


tni  doplicavlt 

A.  Q.  wishes  for  information  about  bis  "dumpy 
IHUe  qnarto"  Ztva  qf  tiu  Sauitt.  He  has  sid- 
mirably  described  it.  My  own  copy  ia  of  similar 
duracter,  and  bound  up  in  green  vellum.  The 
work  was  written  in  Spanish  by  Alphonsos  Vil- 
1ms,  and  translated  into  English  by  Rev.  IHwaid 
fijaemnan,  S.  J.  of  Lonvun.  A.  G.'s  cogy  was 
printed  at  St.  Omer'a  in  1623;  mine  at  Dousy 


dght  years  previously— in  1616.    The  i 

meat  of  the  two  editions  differs ;  mine  hss  945 
consecutive  pages,  heginnina  with  January  and 
ending  with  December.  These  are  followed  by 
an  appendix  of  perhaps  160  pages;  but  my  copy 
ia  detective,  and  haa  only  about  140  pages  of  ap- 
pendix. In  this  are  the  lives  of  several  more 
recent  aaints,  "lately  canonised  and  beatified  bv 
Paul  V.  and  GregoryXV."—8S.  Isidore  of  Madrid, 
^natins  of  Loyoh^  Francis  Xavier,  Philip  Neri, 
I^ances  of  Rome,  Terese,  Aloynua,  Stanislaoa 
Eoetka,  and  AJphonsus  Rodriguei.  At  the  end 
of  these  lives,  which  £11  78  pages,  comes  tho 
"  Approbatio  "  cited  by  A.  G.,  but  it  should  have 
been  thuaprinted :  " Horum  sanctorum  vitffi," See., 
without  the  word  "approbator  "  at  the  heginnina-, 
which  is  imgranuoBtical  and  unintelligible.  &^ 
volume,  however,  does  not  end  bete,  but  haa 
several  additional  pages  dated  1636,  with  the 
lives  of  St  Patrick,  St.  Bridgit  of  Kildare,  and 
St.  Columba,  the  last  of  which  ia  wanting,  with 
part  of  the  life  of  St  Bridget  This  collection  is 
chiefly  compiled  from  legendary  accounts,  and  ia 
of  small  value  and  authonty.  F.  C.  H. 

MuBAL  Paintins  in  Stakstoit  Chvbch,  Nob- 
folk  (4"-  S.  vi.  542,  677;  vii.  40,  172.)— After 
readiog  the  last  communication  upon  thia  aubject 
of  F.  C.  H.  at  p.  40,  I  felt  inclined  to  offer  a 
further  remark  on  some  details  in  the  pictur» 
upon  which  I  still  think  your  aceompliahed  coi>- 
reapondent  mistaken,  but  I  forbore  for  the  reason 
with  which  he  commencea  hia  note — 1  did  not 
wish  to  seem  contentious.  One  of  the  points  I  had 
intended  to  notice — that  the  dogma  of  F.  C.  H., 
as  to  the  representation  of  immediate  beatitude 
being  inapplicable  to  any  ordinary  individual,  waa 
disprovea  by  two  or  three  such  upon  sepulchral 
brasses  which  I  remembered — haa,  lam  pleased  to 
see,  been  taken  up  and  completely  disposed  of  by 
Mr.  Waxixb,  whose  authonty  is  indisputable.  It 
is  a  sentence  in  that  gentleman's  communication 
that  induces  me  to  address  you  again.  He  seems 
to  agree  with  the  assumption  that  the  death-bed 
depicted  is  that  of  a  laay,  although  not  that  of 
the  blesKd  Virgin,  but  there  ia  not  a  feature  re- 
maining frdm  which  the  sex  can  be  inferred, 


neither  can  an_y  inference  be  drawn  from  the  figure 
of  the  ascendmg  soul ;  for,  if  my  memory  is  not 
at  fault — and  BIk.  Waltba  can  correct  me  if  it 
be — in  no  instance  where  the  soul  is  represented 
as  borne  to  heaven  is  the  sex  indicated.  There  is, 
therefore,  an  equal  probability  that  the  soul  in 
this  case  is  that  of  a  male.  Mb.  Waltbb's  re- 
mark upon  the  importance  of  the  arma  as  a  key  to 
tlie  whole  subject  ia  moat  true,  but  here  unfor- 
tunately tbey  cannot  be  produced  in  evidence. 
One  thing,  however,  is  certun,  and  in  this  I  am 
obliged  to  contradict  F.  C.  H.,  the  aims  of  Sawtiy  , 
Abbajl  are  not  like  anything  to  be  traced  upon  • 
the  ahield,  nor  had  that  abbey  the  remotest  con- 


246 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [j'^s.Tii.MA«cHie,Ti. 


Bection  with  tbe  advowson  of  Stanton,  or  anj 
nuuor  or  land  in  the  paiisb  oi  hundred.  I  may 
add,  that  I  still  retiun  the  opinion,  in  which  I  am 
not  angular,  that  the  circlet  worn  bj  the  female 
fignra  Btanding  hj  the  bedride  waa,  when  perfect, 
a  coronet,  not  merely  an  ornamental  beadbaud. 
G.  A.  C. 
A  BiiiCK-coTJHiBT  Leokkd  (4*  S.  »ii.  71, 
197.)— This  anecdote  has  been  told  alio  of  Oene- 
nl  Burgoyne  (of  ijaratoga  notoriety)  when  he  was 
commanding  officer  of  a  regiment  whicti  had  to 
stop  a  night  at  Bolton-le -Moors.  According  to 
the  newspaper  storywhicb  I  read  some  jean  ago, 
one  of  a  uub  of  Bolton  gentlemen  who  were 
dining  in  a  different  room  from  tbe  officera  was 
pot-Taliont  enough  to  send  up  a  Terj  handsome 

gild  watch  and  seals  with  the  message  indicated. 
u^;o;ne  kept  the  wat<:h  and  returned  a  pistol, 
aajing  that  the  regiment  must  marcb  at  nine,  but 
if  the  gentleman  would  come  with  a  friend  before 
diat  hour  he  should  have  his  watch,  and  should 
know  what  o'clock  it  was.  When  morning  came 
SuTgojne  was  earlj  lounging  out  of  tbe  window, 
looking  up  and  down  ue  street,  stietching  his 
legs  before  the  door,  &c. ;  but  no  one  came  to 
claim  the  watch,  so  he  left  Bolton  taking  it  with 
him.  P.  P. 


SRUttXlsntout. 

DOTES  ON  BOOSB,  ETC. 

Sit  J¥«*li  and  Ifanelitf  of  the  Eighite^ti,  Cadun/  in  n- 
ftrtKtt  to  (A*  Matntn  and  Moralt  of  iht  Age.  Br 
'wilUan  Por«7lh,  MJi,  Q.O,  &t     (Murray.) 


n  Forajth,  i 
Few  who  take  an  InUnet  in  the  hi 
£tkin  of  the  people,  tbe  sti ' 


ory  of  the  social  oon- 
!  moraU,  and  the  pro- 
p.  js  oTdrflixa^eiL,  but  mtut  bSTe  frit,  when  turningover 
thenorelIstsandlelU^writen(1fth«la•t  century,  ifaewisb 
that  some  oas  qoaliSed  for  the  task  would  collect  the 
materials  illnstratire  of  these  various  but  cognate  topiei 
scattered  threap  the  wridngi  we  bav*  alluded  to,  and 
bring  them  tosether  iu  seme  pleasant  and  readable  form. 
HapiHlytheideshaasagsesteditHlflaoueererrwaycom- 
peteot  todoit  Juallcet  uid  we  feel  eonfldcDt  none  of  ear 
readers  will  jodfEe  tbe  time  ill-qieatwhicb  they  may  devote 
to  the  penual  of  Mr.  Fonyth'i  recently  published  valame. 
In  its  pages  tbe  anlbor  makes  use  of  fletlon  as  the  ei- 
pooent  of  fact,  and  shows  what  infonnatian  is  to  be 
gleaned  as  to  tbe  babiti,  manners,  mormls,  and  eoci»l  life 
of  oar  ancestors  ftom  ibe  uoreli.  essays,  and  letters  of 
(he  last  centary;  and  uot  only  this,  bat  he  draws  some 
somparison  between  those  morals  and  mauners  and  the 
morals  and  manners  of  oar  own  iMj — not  slways  to 
the  adrantage  of  the  latter.  Aher  illustrating  tbe 
fashions,  dress,  amnsements  of  our  farsfaUiers  — the 
cearsenci^  drunkennes^  duelling  whloh  prerailed-^fae 
conditions  of  dilfoeut  branebss  of  soela^.  ndi  ss  the 
country  squirts,  jnstiotB,  sad  "  psrsons "  as  dsplclad  by 
the  severs]  elssses  of  writers  to  which  we  hsve  rsTerrwl— 
the  book  concludes  with  a  rapid  bat  instractirs 


the  most  distinguished  old  EDolish  writers  of  BctioB.  (Tom 

"  s.  Baho,  Mrs.  Manley,  sudors.  Heywood  to  Riehard- 

,  Fielding,  Smollett,  Uoldsralth,  HIsa  Barney,  Miss 


£dgeworth,  and  Jane  A 


Sefect  Omrttn  emd  Mtr  lUutlratioi 

ttUutioaatHa^rWifromAiEarUai 

of  Edmard  At  Fat.   Amnftdam 

Stubbs,  M.A^  Segios  Professor  of  Modem  History. 

Clarendon  Series.    (Macmillan.) 

In  tbe  well-founded  belief  that  a  knowledge  of  oonsti- 
'-"dnal  history  sboald  be  a  reooguiaed  part  of  a  regutar 


consntntional  docament  of  importance  during  the  poiod 
which  it  covers.  While,  with  the  view  of  making  it  a 
manual  for  teachers  and  students,  the  editor  illnstratea 
theae  documents  by  pointinc  out  their  bsariog  on  one 
another  and  on  the  national  polity,  "  supplying  In  the 
introductory  sluteb  a  string  of  connection,  and  some 
sort  of  continuous  tbeoir  or  the  development  of  the 
system."   Tbe  value  of  so "'"  "  '"""'"   "' ' '"" 


leluc 


y  prefaces  by  which  U 


every  way  worthy  of  the  aathor  of  those  admirable  easara. 

A  DasOEDDAaT  or  Crohwklu— A  Cincinnati  paper 
records  the  death  of  Joseph  Howard  Cromwell,  a  lineal 
deKxndant  of  Oliver  Cromwell.  He  was  formerly  csp- 
tsin  of  an  American  merchantman,  which,  in  tbe  war  of 
1813,  became  a  privateer,  and  was  eaptared  by  a  British 
man-of-war.  The  captivity  of  the  captain  djd  not  last 
long.  He  WM  aRerwards,  for  thirtv-four  years,  an  hotel 
keeper  in  Cincinnati,  and  retired  in  18B2  to  Yellow 
Springs,  Ohio,  where  he  died  on  January  SI,  in  hia 
elghty-fitlh  year,  leaving  children  and  grandchildren. 
The  deceased  is  reported  to  have  been  a  deseendant  of 
a  grandson  of  Oliver  Cromwell's  son  Henry,  Lord  Lieu- 
tenant of  Ireland,  who  settled  in  Maryland  early  in  the 
eighteenth  centary.  [There  can  be  no  fimndatioa  for  thia 
statement.  Mr,  Oliver  Cromwell,  Ibe  great-grandson  of 
Henry,  and  the  last  of  the  male  descendanU  of  the  Pro* 
tector,  died  at  Cheshunt  on  Hay  5.  lS21.--See  Gat. 
Mag.  for  18S1,  part  i.  p.  669.— El).  -S.&  Q."] 

Names  of  Lo-anoK  STREETS.>^The  superintendinf; 
architect  of  the  Metropolitan  Board  of  Works  reported  to 
tbe  Board  last  year  that  In  fourteen  years  4,194  snbsidisry 
names  of  streets  had  been  abolished,  1,849  new  streets  had 
been  named,  and  94,533  houses  bad  been  renumbered. 
The  object  is  greater  predion  of  reference,  which  is  pro- 
moted to  a  large  extent  for  commercial,  social,  sanita^, 
medical,  and  other  pnrposes,  and  tends  greatly  to  the 
convenience  of  tbe  public.  The  rules  of  the  Boatd  rs- 
qnirs  that,  as  far  as  possible  in  selecting  namta  for  neir 
■treeta,  no  nimes  shall  be  repeated. 

Wa  recently  announced  tbe  appearanca  nt  Et  Ami- 
gaador,  a  Spanish  Notes  and  Queries.  We  have  now  to 
chronicle  the  appearance  of  another  journal,  which  will 
be  of  interest  to  Spanish  students.  It  is  an  Bvo  sheet, 
which  is  to  appear  on  the  last  dav  of  each  month,  under 
the  title  of  Rnitlm  dt  An*im,  Bibtioltaa  y  JVasaos. 

Tbb  Faaintax  H9S.— We  learn  tVom  The  Btrald 
and  Cnmiliimit  that  the  valuable  geneali^cal  collections 
formed  by  the  late  Lord  Famham,  and  which  flU  aboot 
Sriy  Tolumca  of  padigreaa  were,  by  the  administralon  of 
his  astste,  presented  to  Us  (Yiend  Sir  Bernard  Burke,  as 
by  so  d(^ng  Ibey  bellsvtd  ttiey  were  best  carrying  oat 
the  wishes  nt  Jjni  Famham. 

Tbohsb  WiLixNaST,  Eaq.— We  regret  to  annonnca 
tbe  dralh  en  the  lOtta  Instant,  sgsl  elubly-fiver-of  this 


4*  8.  Til.  M*i 


,1^71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


old  *ad  much  nipecUd  Fcllov  of  the  Society  of  Anti- 
qiuricK.  Ur.  Willement's  liipal  Henddrg,  pobluhed  in 
1821,  ii  well  known  to  all  hcnldlc  Btnduita.  Be  >1» 
pnblUhed,  in  1827.  HtnJdic  Aolica  of  Cai^trbuiy  Callit- 
Jnd;  Id  1829,  Inda  to  BiJI  of  Arm,  temp.  Uary  mi. ; 
in  1834,  K  aJmnir  Index  to  Bolt  of  Armi  Ump.  RiiAard 
II.;  and  in  1844,  in  Accnunt  of  the  Satoratim  of  tht 
Chapd  of  St.  Georgt't,  Wiadtor. 

Bhakupkark's  Flats  for  School  Use.— An  edition 
of  SbaheiipeeTe  for  icliaol  an.  edited  by  ureral  of  the 
Bugbv  Uuten,  Is  in  prepanllon.  Four  pleva  bmve 
alrexlv  sppeired  sepualelj  ;  theia  sre  lo  be  (ollowed  by 
Mutk'Ado  Abe^t  Nolking. 

"Art."— tn  the  RcranKemenls  fur  the  (brthcaminf; 
IntemstioDsl  Exhibition,  this  term  ia  to  besr  a  very  wide 
inlerpretstion.  Piclnree,  ncalplures,  wnod-c»r»infrH,  tepes- 
tries,  metal  ornamental  ion,— every  tiling,  in  short,  of  s 
decontive  natare  is  to  And  s  pisce  in  the  Art  UalleTies. 

THI    DiaSCTOMHIP  OF  THE    NATIONAL    GaLLKRT.— 

Tba  pnblic  will  be  pleued  to  leam  tliit  Ur.  Bozall  has 
cMuented  to  leanme  this  post. 

Thb  Boval  Sociktt. — Fifty  candidate*  offer  theni' 
selves  for  election  tbla  senlon.  'From  thta  namber  fifteen 
will  be  selected  by  the  Council  and  recommende' 
election  nest  June. 

Thb  latb  Robrrt  Lkiohtoh. — A  petition,  nnmer- 
onsly  and  influentialli'  aigned,  hai  been  presented  to  I' 
Gladstone  on  befaalfoF  the  fnmllT  of  tbe  Ia>e  Hob 
Leighton,  of  Liverpool.  In  a  letter  from  C:anibrid 
UJi.,  Mr.  Longffellow  observes :  "  Of  the  power  > 
beauty  nf  Robert  Lei(ihton>  poemiyon  know  my  opinit 
and  I  aincerely  hope  the  effort  to  secure  a  pensioD  for 
widow  and  children  may  prove  succeafni." 


fotfte^  to  CorrcdiianlrcnU. 


Wtca 


find  a  notict  of  the  object  you  have  in  vieWf  and  concerning 
teiteh  m  ihaU  iegtadio  hear  from  fon. 

U.  A.  H.  (Tralse.)— R'e  cram  yonr  patience. 

Books. — Qaeriee  rttpteting  the  anihori  nf 

aot  inMtrled,  fir   the 

oBDiou  Tnuon  turn  Ma  snleri  Mae  a  r^ht,  if  iheg  thint 
pr^er^  to  remain  aitibioipn. 

W.  H.— Sir  J.  Boierin^i  paper  ie  in  theSrMt  mluine  of 
Tranaactions  of  the  Historical  Society,  ichieh  la  printed 
Oy  Utari.  Ridge  nfBariholomeiB  Clote,  "for  Iht  Satietf  " 

ifrU  ballad 


L.  T.  A.— "  ne  Aiy  (okI  tie  JUimtle  "  it  (i 

in  the  third  t  '  -  "       ■    "  < - 

Music  of  the  Olden  *! 


■  of  Fercy-i  Beliqnea.— See  ChappdFi 
■a  Time  for  replg  lo  your  ether  guefj 


W.  W. — The  poem  purporting  to  be  writtM  by  JHUlon 

"I  am  old  and  blind," 
wa*  lerUtrn  bg  Mi-  Uoyd  tf  PhiiaddjAia. 

A.  H.  (Klng<bridge.>— TAeiJeinnaAtre  entim  of  offer- 
or to  i^e-lrea  ie  recorded  in  our  1"  S.  Iv.  809 ;  v.  f48. 

F.  F.  J.  uril/find  an  aceont  of  Trajano  Bocoaiini  in  an) 
biographical  Acttonary. 

A.  %  Barrett  aill  m  lihe  manner  find  on  accotaii 
ofiEchael  JUaittaire. 

Kit.  p.  Siieridak.— IKe  do  not  rtmtmber  fo  have  re- 
ceived anything  from  yn  on  the  auhjecl  fyf  your  eommnni- 
cotiim.     Ifoircrer,  at  p.  IbS  nf  our  pmtml  teriet  you  mil 


guerjr 
aooHi  ocotca  nriKa. 

Phisonir's  Bar  or  Dock. — Our  experience  hof^d^ 
doee  not  enable  ni  to  amttoet  H.  H.'e  query —  frhere  an  old- 
faihioaed  bar,  which  admitted  the  Khiile  figure  ofOa  pri- 
toner  to  be  nitible,  can  noa  be  leenf 
A.  S.El-lsa.— Your  article  ii  in  fype. 


THE    OLD    DBAHATI8T8 
THE   OLD    POETS. 

d  TlfiuUei  I  EcUtfd,  w 

BEAUMONT  and  FLETCHER.    2  toIb.  S2». 

aUSSINGEB  and  FORD.    I6t. 

BEN  JONSON.     ISi. 

WYCHERLEY,  CONGREVE,  VASBRUSH,  ami 

TARtimiAR.    Ut. 

GREENE  and  PEELE.     IGs. 
SHAEGSPEABE.    With  Flatea  by  John  Gilskbt, 
JOHN  WEBSTER.     12». 
CHRISTOPHER  MARLOWE,  IBs. 

OrthcHct  CompIcte.BL  lU. 

The  OM  Foete. 

SPENSER.     105.  erf.  I    DRYDEN.     10>.  6d. 

CHAUCER.     10*.  6rf.        I    POPE.     10«.  6.1 

Of  Uh  Bel  CtonpleLc,  If.  If. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [i-^s-vii-i 


THUDBS'   HIBTOB7  OV   THS   rBSINOH  BEVOIiTmon^. 


Kow  nady,  in  6to1&,  extra  fc>p.STo,  iritti41  Fine  Eagnvings  sod  Portnlti  od  Sl«el,  3Di. 

mSTOET  OF  THE  &BMT  IBMGS   EEVOLUTIOIT. 

By  M.  THIEES. 

"  The  palm  of  Bicallance,  after  whole  libraries  hiTa  been  mitten  on  the  Frencb  Berolntioa,  bta  been  asaigiud  to 
tht  dissimilar  hiatories  of  Thiea  and  MigiieL,"~WiLUAii  H.  Pswccn-T. 
^  lam  reading 'Thiera' French  Benilation,'  which  I  find  it  difficolt  to  la;  dowD."— Rev.  Stdnet  Smitb. 


RICHAED  BENTLEY  &  SON,  PublUhers  in  OnUnary  to  Her  Mftjesty. 


SIK  WALTER  SCOTT'S  ENTIBE^WORKS. 


1.  Waverlkt  UovaLs   . 
%  PoKTicAL  Works 

S.    MlS0ELI.AJ<EOIIB  FROHU 

4.  Life  bt  Lockh&bt    . 


Edlnbniih !  ADAH  ■  CHABLG9  Bt.ACE. 


BLOT'S   8TAFF0RDSHIBK— A  very  ftne  copy 
fln  emit.  Fihz.  Benn  Onluu.  -  AiUtw.  P.  F„  PeM  Ofloe. 


rrO  COIN  COLLECTOHS,  CUKAT0R8,  hto.- 

l  8.lofBBlmaMli.nnHrfWBp0KWOODMEDALUOl(ao 
TWELVE  C*SAlCB,froin«aitiHt^l«iWli^fl  t*-,or  It.  e*clu  , 
•  VALUABLE  CABINET  irfASclElJt  COIK8  10  dlyM  pf . 
ftt«_H.  R.  OAHBUTT.  WtrtMoiinl.  UlloHUr  Rstil.  DtilTf- 


rpO  PORTRAIT  COLLECTORS.  — Johk  STMKaoH 


^d  Out  Put  of  ALFHABETICAl.  Gj 


pEAND  PUMP  ROOM  HOTEL,  BATH,  cvpoflite 

"*™  kLUS  HAWKEBWORTH,  MUWOWL 


TkSR.  HOWARD,  Snrgeoa-Dentiat,  62,  Fleet  Simet, 

vlii  npilal^ull  mnm  wih  that  nn  boa,  ud  li  (uui»d  is 
wuniirHeiilulni  and  mudatim.  Dwfd  Wh  ttOMNd  ud  mi- 


.    I    L    B    . 


;   T     J. 


INCH, 


A  EUDLEIUTICAI. 


A  OUloriK  ml  bT  pa 


.  FARTRIBOE    ANS    COOFEK, 

HAMDFACrURINQ  STATIONERS, 
192,  Fleet  Street  (Comer  of  Chancery  Lane). 


BT&AW  FAFEH-lmimnd  qu 


BTAHPIIJO  (RcUeO,  n 
■H.  III.  pK  1J».    FsUdiH]  BMil  I 

ST  AdSna  IUsl  trtUB  U. 
BBR110I(PAFBH.I>t>llt,U.P(ri«IliRQl* 
eCBOOh  STATIONSBT  •untitdOD  the  mi 
lUubUBil  Fria  UM  at  Inkikndi,'  Din 


CHUBB'S    NEW   FATESTT    SAfES. 

STEEL  PLATED,  -with  Bingonal  Bolts,  to   rcsiEt 
.     WedinDiilHu^Fls. 
JHITBB'S    P&TBKT    SSTSOTOX    KOOXI, 

Of  lU  SlIB  •Jill  for  CTUT  Purpoii^-SUMl-dDor  Lltchtl  nlUi  mull 

(od  HIU  Ecri — Cu>i.  THrU,  FttKi.  •od  Wrlllnt  Bam, 

•II  tliud  irith  Uic  DcMclor  Jjxkt. 

IRON    DOORS    FOR    STRONG   ROOMS. 
lUiutnited  Fria  Li$t*  Gralii  md  PoMt-Frtt. 

CHUBB  and  SON, 

mi  ».LojdfltiHt.IJTflniooIj 


"OLD  ENGLISH ••  FURNITURE. 


COLIATSsaJS  and  IiOCE  (late  Herring), 

CABINET  UAKEBS, 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  B.C.    Establisbed  1788. 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANGING8. 

DltaUiHU  of  nn  old  BROCAOES.  D 


COLUNSON  and  LOCK  (late  H^rins), 

DECOBATOBS, 
100,  FLEET  STREET,  LONDON.   Ertablidied  I78X. 


4'»8.vilmabch25,71.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


LOSDOS,  aATDKLAT,  MASCB  U,  18 


HuMdoa  Church,  290  -  EkI.  Viw 

nmen.  Ml  —  EitnKtrdliiaiT  Legend  rVoE 
Ifr.  -  41h  Ori^n  or  AithbUhcql  aUBbrd,  «3 
Juhu  Bkili.  who  lived  In  Thraa  CnitnriM  - 
(•■u—  Point  de  Tice— Pnandr— Uuibaodi 

IniorfpHoiu-'  Bar.  Ja —  " ■*  ~" 

-Dlb5lo'."f   ' 


Ttel^nl- 


QVBBIBS  :  —  The  EtjOMlogj  ot  "  Wud  "  M  ■  Ptnooal 
Name  t  tse  —  Sous'  Bvr  —  Bonnw  kw)  Croft  —  Bnoi' 
hUDiTorkshlra  —  L.  mil  BaMhoveo  —  PMInlt  oTCkiiMnni 
sf  Loebid  —  Court  Hoandns  —  CrwU— "Georfre  C*n> 
tarhatj't  Will "—  Pedigrra  of  Pairhx  —  BUhop  Fuller  — 
HuwniDktn  —Home  Abbe;  Beglater— Btlnbeth  KtUl- 
««■,  VMnHinlCM  Bhinnon  — BIr  Peler  Lelt^  Ufa  ind 
Worti-HiohMl  Aonlo'i  -  lut  JndniMBt  "-HMqulUxi 
Id  EnKland,  BircaOM  —FbiitMiMeml  NiUdnew  —  St. 
Annelloe— BonuiSomid  — SlrWtUlun  StenboM  Mte- 
\m  —  Bteiltnu  FemilT  —  VatelKS  <X  Dlrtfai|mtated  Hen 
—  "  The  Woild  turned  unlde  doiTB,"  or  the  luree  taking 
YescnncB  on  Utmklnd,  Ac,  !8S. 


Baokironn,:!aS--il>Dt(emforibB  Dei^MS  — The  B>lt^ 
moreand  'Old  Martiii[ty"  Pn(«rB0iis  — Hicaulal'a  Bal- 
ladi— LiiiM  on  thB  Hnnmi  Ear— Hion-Plon:  Lu-Lu  — 
'■fc»"aud"En"— Artiflcial  MT-Bihinn  —  Captain  John 
Jiason  —  MsntlauBhter  and  Cold  Iron  ~ "'  Bkerring  upon 
a  Glare  Olxtten  "  —  Lord  PInnket  -  Fedntrian  Peat  of 
raraday  —  Frinoe  ~      


Notes  on  B«>k(,  Ao. 


On  looking  over  lome  of  the  «ulj  vohuuea  of 
"N.  &  Q."  I  met  with,  id  1"  S.  v.  205, Me.  Johs 
GonoB  Nichols's  pitpet  on  "  Irabel  Queen  of  the 
Isle  of  Man  "  in  reply  to  Mo.  W.  S.  Gibson's  on 
the  SAme  subject,  in  which  he  sppean  to  queHti<ni 
the  tight  of  the  Lords  of  Men  to  be  stjled  kings, 
sajing  "  the  J  do  not  Appear  to  be  recognised  I17 
tecords,  bQt  merelj  bj  tue  chioniclera,"  and  that 
"the  word  dotiiiaut,  not  rex,  is  employed  in  Latin 
rocords,  and  aeignair  in  French." 

Z  have  always  looked  upon  any  statement  from 
Mk.  NicBOLs's  pen  to  be  entitled  to  every  degree 
of  attention  and  credit,  knowing  that  his  object  is 
only  to  state  facts  as  far  as  those  facts  can  be 
ascertained ;  and  as  "  N.  &  Q."  is  now  so  uniTeTBal 
a  medium  for  obtuning  information,  I  offer  a  few 
remarks  on  the  subject  of  Modi  kings  in  the  hope 
that  some  of  your  correspondents  msy  throw 
some  additional  light  on  the  matter. 

That  the  early  t^rosiclers  are  entitled  to  some 
dense  of  credit  will  snrely  be  granted,  for  we 
find  many  things  'mendoued  by  tnem  which  are 
established  iacta,  yet  not  to  be  found  in  recotda. 
The  Isle  of  Uan  has  So  often  been  the  batUe-field 
for  its  posseesion  in  early  days,  that  its  sorerdgns 
are  fbond  at  one  time  to  be  independent,  and  at 
another   doing   homage    to    Denmark,  Norw^, 


Scodand,  or  England,  whicheTer  night  be  para- 
mount at  tlie  time,  but  nerer  losing  the  attribotcs 
of  a  king  in  Uan.  Besides  many  other  earlier 
Kings  of  Mho  which  are  recorded  by  the  chroni- 
dere,  we  find  that  Macon,  King  of  Man  in  060, 
was  one  of  the  Idi^  that  rowed  in  King  Edgar's 
boat  on  the  Dee,  sitting  at  the  third  oar,  thereby 
having  precedency  over  the  other  kings,  and 
showing  the  importance  that  Kings  of  Man  weie 
held  in  at  that  time,  Edgar  himself  presiding  at 
the  helm  as  king  panunount  over  all,  as  he 
claimed. 

At  the  time  of  the  Conquest,  1066,  Godred,  the 
son  of  Sytric,  then  rugned  in  Man ;  and  after  Aat 
a  long  succession  of  kinge  of  the  Norwegian  and  Scot- 
tish line  to  whtmi  they  were  expected  to  do  homi^. 
About  the  year  1206  the  ueuiper  Reginald  agreed 
to  do  homage  to  King  John  of  England  for  the 
Isle  of  Man ;  and  in  the  letters  patent  of  that 
monarch, in  the  sixth  year  of  his  reign,  to  Beginald, 
be  is  styled  Lord  of  Man  only ;  but  this  surrender 
was  as  invalid  as  that  of  Beginald's  of  his  do- 
minions to  Pope  HonoriuB  in  1210,  in  which  ha 
is  stjled  "  Beginald,  Kbg  of  the  Isle  of  Man." 
Also  in  a  roll  4  Hen.  111.  (1220)  he  is  agun 
styled  "  Rex  de  Man,"  and  again  in  the  lett^  of 
Pope  Honorius  to  Reginald  (a.d.  1223)  he  is 
stvled  "  Heginaldo  Ragi  Insularum  iilustri."  In 
12  Hen.  III.  Olave  bod  safe  conduct  to  come  into 
Englsnd  under  the  style  of  "  Olave  Rei  Mannit» 
et  iDsulanim  " ;  and  again  in  19  Hen.  III.  (1236), 
dated  at  Windsor,  April  13,  we  find  it  stated 
that— 

"  We  have  taken  nnder  oar  silk  and  lare  condnet  our 
beloved  friend,  Olave  Kin);  of  Hmn  and  the  Idmd^ 
vhilst  comiog  into  England  to  vmtti  with  la,  aoU  wbilM 
tanjing  there  and  in  depsTting  thence." 

Also  another  protection  from  the  SBme'monarch, 
dated  May  24, 1236,  "  of  aU  the  lands  and  posses- 
sions of  Olave,  King  of  Mann  and  the  Islands,  on 
his  going  over  to  Norway."   {Vide  Fadera.') 

According  to  the  chronicle  preserved  in  Castle 
Rushen  we  find  it  stated — 

"  In  the  e%l]th  ]^r  ofKing  Edward  the  Third,  Wflliam 

MantagdP,  Earl  of  Salitbnry,  conqaered  the  I»le  of  Man 

■  of  the  handa  of  the  Scots,  which  Isle  the  King  gave 


o  be  <: 


entitled  King  of  Man,  1314." 

Sir  John  Stanley,  the  second  King  of  Man  of 
the  house  of  Stanley,  succeeded  his  father  in  1414, 
and  one  of  the  oldest  records  in  the  Rolls  Office, 
Castle  Ruehen,  printed  in  the  statate-book  of  the 
island,  states  that  in  1417  he  held  a  court  of  Tyu- 
wsld  at  the  Tjnwald  Hill,  St.  John's,  when  he 
was  informed  by  his  deemsters  and  keys  how  he 
should  be  governed  on  his  Tjnwald  day  as  fol- 

"  This  is  the  CoBstitntion  of  old  tine  -which  we  have 
etvea  in  ddi  days,  how  yon  sboold  be  governed  on  f  onr 
Tyawald  da/.  Flnt  70a  shall  come  thitber  ia  jtiat  rnfat 
anof,  as  a  King  oogbt  to  do  b^  the  |fferqp^v^  fff  ^ 


oby 


^^TO^ 


250 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*S.Tn.  MAr.cn  23,  71, 


iDTiItiM  of  the  Land  oT  Han,  and  upon  tha  HDl  of 
'rjnwald  sit  in  a  cbalr  covered  with  a  loral  cloth  Bod 
coahions,  and  3'uur  vinace  auto  Iha  east  and  your  arord 
before  tou  holdeo  wilh  Bie  point  apwards,"  4c. 

After  fence  is  made— 

"That  no  man  makeanj-distarbanMorgtir  in  Ibellme 
ofTjwald,  or  anv  mtumut  or  rihing  in  Ibe  Ki»p'i  pre- 
itnct,  upon  pain  of  hanginf;  and  drawing,  and  then  shall 
let  vour  Darona  and  ail  oinara  know  joa  lo  b«  tbeir  King 
and' Lord,"  &c.  "And  in  aatnachasvonareby  (be  grace 
of  God  now  King  md  iMrd  of  Afm.'j-on  will  now,  that 
your  Commons  come  onto  yon,  and  shfw  their  cbartera 
how  they  liold  of  you,  and  your  Barons,  tliat  made  no 
faith  or  fealty  unCoyoa,  Chat  they  may  now,"&c 

The  language  of  this  is  only  here  modernised. 

ThomNi',  the  Mcond  Earl  of  Derb;  uid  fl^ 
King  of  Man  of  the  boose  of  Stanley,  came  to  the 
throne  in  1604,  anddnringthereign  of  Edward  IV. 
he  dropped  the  title  of  King  and  made  use  of  that 


hut  this  change  of  title  did  not  of 

from  the  sovereign  rights  or  afiect  the  relationship 

between  them  and  tbeir  auhjecta. 

In  the  fourth  part  of  Coke's  Intt&ulet  r>f  the 
Latot  <f  England,  1671,  he  states — 

"This  isle  hath  been  an  ancient  kingdom,  ai  it  ap- 
pearalh  in  li.  7.  in  CaMn's  Case."  "Anf  i-et  we  find  it 
not  granted  or  conveyed  by  the  name  of  a  kingdom,  nd 
OCT  iwmtn /ub/ib,  &e.  mat  patiotialn  Epitropalui.  He 
hath  the  patronage  of  the  biihoptick  of  Sodor,  which  ia 
a  Tiaible  mark  5  a  kingdom.  Vide  lib.  MS.  in  reeept, 
Seacoarii.  foL  IM,  and  Tib.  Pariiam.  in  Turri  London. 
temp.  E.  r.  fo.  19.  21.  (Walainffham,  p.  287.)  William  le 
3crope  emit  de  domino  Willlelmo  da  Monte  acuta  lu- 
9DlaoiEul>aDiie(i.e.Uannia)i  CBtnempejniipeiualnanlje 
D(  qnisqnia  illius  ait  domlnua  Bex  Tocatnr,  cni  etiain  faa 

In  the  case  of  the  dangfiters  of  Ferdinando  the 
eighth  Lotd  of  Man,  ae  hdrs  general,  and  William 
the  aizth  Earl  of  Derby,  as  Ivother  and  heir  mala 
of  the  deceased  Ferdinand  ae  to  the  right  to  the 
isluid,  1696,  it  was  decided  h^  the  Lord  Keeper 
Emrton  and  the  rest  of  the  lodges,  "That  the 
Isle  of  Man  was  an  ancient  Kingdom  of  itselfe, 
and  no  part  of  the  kingdom  of  England."  Selden, 
also,  in  his  Title*  of  Bonortr,  1831,  ranks  it  as  an 
andent  subordinate  kingdom,  obserring  that  its 
kings  styled  themselveB  as  Kings  of  Man  and  the 
Isles,  and  were  so  styled  by  their  superior  lords. 
Both  Coke  and  Selden  prore  their  assertions  from 
the  records,  and  Blackstona  in  his  CommeHtariri 
confirms  thia  Jnmes  Earl  of  Derby  was  stjled 
"  King  of  the  Isle  of  Man  "  in  1716  in  an  a^al 
case  heard  before  acommitteeofthe  Privy  Council 
ill  London. 

In  the  sale  of  the  island  with  its  royaldes  to 
the  British  crown  by  the  Duke  of  Atholl  in  IT6S, 
the  negociations  for  which  were  not  finally  con- 
cluded until  1628,  the  sovereignty  of  the  island 
was  one  consideration,  and  although  they  had  for 
A  long  series  of  years  been  content  with  the  title 


of  Lords,  the  sovereignty  however  was  not  di- 
minished by  the  change  of  name ;  for  the  Isle  of 
Man  is  traceable  as  a  kingdom  into  times — probnbly 
centuries,  but  certainly  many  years— prior  to  the 
Conquest.  This  was  'fully  discussed  aikd  allowed 
when  the  Duke  of  Atholl  s  Isle  of  Man  case  came 
to  be  heard  before  the  Privy  Council. 

It  maybe  remarked  that  from  time  immemorial 
the  Isle  of  Man  has  been  governed  by  its  own 
laws,  made  and  allowed  with  the  consent  of  their 
kings  or  lords  by  his  council  and  the  keys  of  the 
island,  and  which  mode  was  continued  durin^t  the 
Commonwealth  of  England  while  Lord  Fairfax 
was  lord  of  the  island,  and  on  to  the  pi 
the  same  being  first  promulgated  U 
from  the  Tynwald  Hilt  at  St  John's. 

I  hope  what  his  been  here  stated  may  induce 
Ub.  Nichols  to  investigate  this  subject  sfrnin, 
and  also  induce  Mr.  W.  S.  Qibson*  to  believe 
that  the  crown  of  the  kings  of  the  Isle  of  Man 
was  not  a  "shadowy crown,"  but  a  substantial 
and  real  one.  Wiluau  Uabrison. 

Rock  Monnt,  lale  of  Han. 


HUNSDOS  CHURCH. 

This  chnrch  was  built  about  a.p.  1400,  and  is 
in  the  Early  Perpendicular  style.  It  con»ats  of 
nave,  with  western  tower  and  spira  and  north 
porch  ;  chancel,  with  north  aisle  and  south  tran- 
sept. The  tower  contuns  fire  fine  bells.  The 
porch  is  of  oak,  of  the  same  dale  as  the  church, 
and  in  very  Kood  preservation. 

The  chuicn  was  once  very  rich  in  stained  glass, 
placed  there  in  1440  or  14H)  by  Sir  Wm.  Old- 
nalle,  Speakerof  theHonseof  Commons,  a  stanch 
adherent  of  the  House  of  York,  and  at  that  time 
owner  of  Hunsdon  House,  which  is  close  to  the 
church.  Uach  of  this  glass  has  since  disappeared, 
but  there  still  remsin  in  head  of  east  window 
the  Annunciation  of  our  Lady,  and  onr  I<ord  in 
glory  adored  by  saints.  In  chancel  windows, 
several  white  roses  of  York,  and  two  fetter-locks, 
another  badge  of  the  House  of  York ;  also  four 
canopies,  which  no  doubt  once  surmounted  figures 
of  saints.  In  a  window  of  the  nave,  six  Apostles 
and  other  fragments. 

Himsdon  House  subsequently  belonged  to  King 
Henry  VIII.,  and  wis  used  during  his  reign  as  a 
residence  for  his  children.  Mary  (afterwards 
queen)  lived  here  during  the  reign  of  Eilward  VI., 
and  Eliiabeth  during  the  reign  of  Mary.    The 

Blace  of  the  Bishops  of  London  was  then  at 
adbam,  four  miles  distant,  and  Bishop  Ridley 
is  known  to  have  come  over  from  Hadhsm  to 
jjresch  in  Hunsdon  church.  There  are  also  records 
■"  the  parish  register  of  Queen  Elizabeth  having 


ill.    Sea  p.  W  of  onr     > 
:,7eobyCc)Ol^le 


".s.tii.m*hchB5,71.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


251 


twice  atood  as  sponsor  in  the  church— in  IS75 
and  16S4.     When  Elizabeth  cAme  to  the  throne 

ehe  gave  HunBdon  to  her  couain,  Sic  Henry  Cory, 
and  created  him  Brtod  Hiuudon,  The  third  Lord 
HuDsdoQ,  vrho  was  sent  to  briog  Einft  James  L 
to  England  on  his  accession  to  thaEIngliab  throne, 
built  the  south  transept,  and  placed  in  it  a  large 
monument  contaioin;;  figures  in  alabaster  of  him- 
aelf  and  his  mfe,  but  he  was  not  buried  here. 
There  is  anextremelj  fine  oak  screen  between  the 
tcansept  and  the  nave,  and  it  seems  that  when 
this  ATAS  erected  the  whole  church  was  reseated, 
and  a  new  pulpit  set  up;  so  that  the  church, 
which  continues  at  present  in  the  state  in  which 
It  was  put  then,  is  rich  in  Jacobean  oak  work. 
Unhappilythe  rood-screen,  vhich  must  have  been 
very  fine,  of  the  same  date  as  the  church,  was 
then  cut  down,  and  the  lower  half  only  remains ; 
part  of  the  remainder  was  worked  into  the  pulpit, 
and  other  fragments  have  been  found  during  the 
reetomtion  of  the  church,  but  not  enough  for  the 
piii  destroyed  to  be  restored.  A  few  of  the  old 
original  seats  are  left,  and  an  ludent  oak  alms- 
box  of  the  same  date.  There  are  other  monuments 
and  brasses.  One  brass, date  ISQI,  to  the  memory 
of  a  "  aervant  to  the  Right  honomble  the  L.  Cham- 
berlaine,  and  keeper  ofthe  greats  parke  at  Huns- 
don,"  represents  tne  keeper  shootiDg  a  stag  with  a 
crossbow,  and  Death  standing  between  them  strik- 
ing each  with  a  dart.  The  chancel  usle  is  at 
present  entirely  separated  from  the  church  by  a 
solid  wall  which  bears  two  la^e  marble  Corin- 
thian monuments  with  inscriptions  of  the  period 
(^circa  1730).  It  is  proposed,  by  remoring  these 
monuments  to  the  wall  of  the  usle,  to  restore 
the  aisle  to  the  chancel,  using  it  as  an  organ- 
chamber  and  vestry. 

It  is  not  known  to  whom  this  church  is  de- 
dicated.   The  rector  will  be  obliged  to  any  one 
n-ho  can  give  him  any  information  on  this  print. 
S.  N. 


EARLY  VERSES  OF  JAME3,M0>ITG0MERT. 

A  mannscriptcontaining  ft  juvenile  production  by 
this  eminent  poet  and  hymn-writer  has  just  come 
under  my  notice,  and  appears  1^  me  to  be  of  suffi- 
cient interest  to  deserve  a  place  in  your  columns. 
It  is  a  little  book  in  which  several  pupils  of  the 
Fulneck  Moravian  semina^  ha»e  written  verses, 
of  their  own  composition  And  in  their  own  hand- 
writing, and  signed  with  their  names,  in  honour 
of  their  teacher  on  his  birthday.  (In  the  Memoirt 
of  Montgomay,  by  Holland  and  Everett,  there  is  a 
reference  to  this  birthdey  custom,  i.  47.)  On  the 
first  page  is  written,  "  For  Broth*  Ash  on  his 
Birthday,  June  24th,  1787."  This  gentleman, 
who  long  afterwards  enjoyed  the  friendship  of 
Montgomery,  was  father  of  my  friend  Rev.  Ben- 
jan^  Ash,  in  whose  poseeseion  this  book  lemaina. 


There  are  nine  short  pieces.  The  nemos  of  the 
writers  are— James  Montgomery,  J.  Lea?,  Robert 
Montgomery,  Samuel  Angermsn,  1.  Angell,  John 
Gottwalt,  Frederic  Diemer,  John  Steinhauer,  and 
Samuel  Unthank.  They  are  just  such  pious  versus 
as  we  might  expect  from  boys  taught  to  venerate 
the  memory  of  Count  Zinzendorf,  who  wrote  some 
thousands  of  hymns,  and  who  says  of  his  hymn- 
writing — 

"  After  the  disconne,  I  eenerallv  announce  another 
hj-mn  approprieW  to  the  Biihject.  When  I  cannot  find 
one,  I  conipoaQ  one;  I  Mj',  in  the  Saviour's  nanie,  what 
cornea  into  my  heart." 

In  seven  of  the  pieces  the  phveical  sufferings  of 
Christ  are  made  prominent.  Montgomery's  piece 
stands  first:  he  was  probably  the  leader  and  in- 
spirer  of  the  bvmnwriting  band.  In  a  letter 
written  in  1837  he  says:  — 

"  When  I  Titia  ■  607  I  wrote  a  ^reat  mmv  hvmnt 
....  But  >9  1  grew  up  and  m^  bcait  dcKeoerited,  I 
directed  toy  tileiiti,  luch  is  the]*  were,  to  other  servicu ; 
sod  seldom  indeed,  since  my  fonrteentb  year,  have  they 
been  employed  Id  lbs  delightful  duties  of  the  Mnctut:;'.'' 
But  this  seems  to  have  been  written  in  bis  nx- 
teenth  year,  the  year  ia  which  he  left  Fulneck. 
It  is  as  follows :  — 

"  O  thoD  moat  graciooa  Lamb  of  Qod, 

Who  bore  our  bid  and  guilt. 

Bleu  him  with  Vity  stoDinfc  blood. 

Upon  moant  Calv'ry  spilt. 

"  And  closthe  him  with  thy  righteouineu, 

That  clean  and  apotlew  vcet ; 

Adom  hia  soul  with  love  ind  peace  1 

Thua  he'U  b«  highly  bleat." 

JosiiS  Miller. 


EXTRAORDINART  LEGEND  FROU  GAIK3- 

BURUH. 
I  enclose  you  an  extract  from  the  Gaimitirgh 
Kewi_  of  March  4, 1871,  containing  an  account  of 
the  appearance  of  an  angel  in  that  town  in  the  year 
1819.    The  story  is  causing  considerable  sensa- 
tion in  this  part  of  the  worldj  I  am  thereforo 
anxious  to  know  if  any  of  your  correspondents 
can  throw  any  light  upon  it.    My  impression  ia 
that  I  have  met  with  a  verv  similar  story  in  some 
seventeenth -century  book,  out  I  am  quite  imable 
to  call  to  mind  where  or  when  I  came  across  it. 
EnwAKn  Peacock. 
BotleaTord  Manor,  Brigg. 

Eilnordinarii  Ltgendfiom  Gainihiryh. 
"  llie  Ticaraee,  Gih»bar(rii, 

Kebmary  87ib,  1871. 
Dear  Sir,— I  eend  yon  the  encloeed  papers,  which  speak 
hr  themsdves.  I  ahouWbegUdtoknow  whether  any  of 
your  readers  can  throw  light  upon  the  legend,  or  trace  it 
to  Ua  aODim  So  far  u  1  can  find,  tbe  only  Hr.  King 
wbo  pxercited  (he  nfflca  of  (he  Christian  minigtry  m 
GaJMbnrgh  wsa  the  Hr.  King  wbo  was  pastor  of  the 
IndepeDdent  congregation  from  July,  1819,  to  June,  ldS6, 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [4"-  s.  vii.  m*ech  25, 11. 


and  I  MnnDt  trace  out  >  Mr.  Ham  at  all  ia 
wllh  any  raligiotu  bod;  in  (he  toini. 

Ko  donbt  Uis  pmeat  pnvalgnoa  of  tba  anaB-pox  im 
^ren  tba  lagend  ■  longer  aaiitmae  than  iti  mytbkd 
and  indefinita  cbaradar  warranted,  bnt,  unming  that 
tt  noat  have  nme  alight  fbnndatioa,  it  is  a  maUer  of 
iatareit  to  diecoTcr  the  moIehiU  wbich  haa  groini  into  a 

I  am,  dear  Slr,(kltlifs1ij  jean, 

J-  Ci-'noMn,*' 
The  papers  encloud  are— 

1  and  !.  Lett«n  from  Eer.  W.  dn  Heaame,  HA^ 
Bettor  of  Trinitj,  Jeraej'. 
8.  Letter  Cram  Ber.  U.  GalUenna,  Wedq^n  nunjitar, 

i.  Tin  broadiheet  circniating  in  Jen^,  in  French. 

G.  A  tranelatioa  of  the  Mme  inlo  English. 
[Endomre  I.] 

"Tiini^  Bectory,  Jer»eT,  October  18tb,  1870.— Rev 
and  dear  Sir, — Woald  j-ou  klndlj  giro  me  lome  infbnna- 
tion,  if  in  Tonr  power  to  do  so,  respecting  eome  ezlra- 
oidlDary  drcamatacce  wlilch  ia  sild  to  haTs  uieen  in 
fonrown  parish  charch  on  the  5th  of  April,  1S19?  I 
milie  tbia  reqnut  beooae  the  poorar  and  more  illitenta 
people  abont  here  are  being  pennaded  that  no  lesa  thui 
an  angel  did  on  that  day  appear  to,  I  aitppoee,  your  piB- 
deoeeaoT,  as  the  document  ia  aigned  '  Klag,  rector,'  and  (I 
quite  forget  th«r  names)  the  two  charcbwardena ;  and  if, 
as  I  believe,  the  document  is  false,  I  shall  make  it  mj 
datf  (o  sa;  ao.  It  ia  stated  in  that  paper  that  a  child 
was  feond  ringing  the  belli  at  dead  of  night,  and  after 
haTlng  prophesied  the  present  atate  of  France,  and  tbe 
oveituow  of  all  rale  in  that  conn  try,  disappeared  sud- 
denl;,  aammoning  thoae  present  to  appear  before  God. 
All  this  and  much  more  purports  to  be  signed  by  the  then 


Iham,  and  dedued  that  ahe  was  sent  to  warn  England 
sf  bar  ilns.  E^  likawiaa  protAesied  bad  tidiea  far 
Franca.    The  naaaca  of  tbe  da^ymoi  in  Gainsbnrgh 

who  beard  har  testimooy  are  maatHmcd — Bcts.  K' ' 

the  tmthhlnen 


— BcTa.  Kingai 
the  particB  'altotiiu  the  trnthfUneai  of  tb* 
added— Wanam  ClMmbera,  Joha  CodlaoD, 


oted  to  traoble  yon 
a,  and  to  beg  of  yon 
am  yonrs  very  trnly. 


tomyk 
the  fam< 


no  other.  Yon  need 
what  an  impression 
dnced  among  the  loi 


name  of  Beeley 

90  ridicaloua  that  I  am  really  aaha 
about  it,  bnt  I  am  requested  to  do  a 
to  allow  me  to  show  your  answer. — 1 
Wu.  Dd  Ueavmg." 

[Enclomrt !.] 
"Trinity  Rectory,  Jersey,  Xorember  3nd,  1870.— Dear 
Sir, — Pray  accept  my  best  Ihinlcs  for  your  kind  answer 
leltei.  I  hare  at  last  obtained  a  printed  copy  of 
It  la  rather  soiled,  bat  1  can  set 
ot  retarn  it.  You  cannot  imagine 
he  contoits  of  that  paper  has  pnn 
!T  orders  in  this  small  community. 
It  has  been" circulated  amongst  the  Dissenters  cbiefly. 
Our  own  people  attach  no  importance  to  l^  I  hare 
known  a  gentleman  of  the  name  of  King  on  this  Island, 
aboot  eight  or  ten  years  ago,  bnt  I  cannot  ascertain  what 
bas  become  of  him.  He  was  a  veiy  superior  man,  about 
GO  or  70  years  old  then,  and  too  gUled,  as  I  think,  to  be 
the  author  ofsuch  a  9tor>'.  We  shall  lUbe  rejoiced  if  you 
can  take  the  trouble  to  read  this  paper.  I  send  it  as  ft  is, 
in  French,  which  is  out  language,  la  uaed  in  tbe  pariah 
churchea  and  ofGcially,  althongh  we  aie  daily  getting 
more  Anglicised,  and  are  proud  of  becoming  more  and 
more  like  other  English  subjects  in  habits,  and  even  lan- 
guage.- Tonra  reiy  trnly,  WM.  Do  Heaumb.— TheRer. 

[Enclosnre  S.] 
"2B,VauxbaIl-Blreet,  Jeiaey,  FebniMry  19lh,  1871,— 
Sir,— The  enclosed  paper  b  being  circulai«rt  in  th>"  Wmn^ 
It  purports  to  be  the  Iranslatioo  of  ai 
apparition  at  Uilnsbnrgh,  in  Lincolnchin,  in 
■1  In  tbe  form  of  a  young  female,  ^  ' 


and  John  Boole.  Can  yon  inform  me  wltetherthe  ni 
mentioned  are  real  crfiotitioiu,  and  whether,  fbr  iastaao^ 
the  derfmnan  of  yonr  town  in  1819  were  thoa*  naniad; 
and  wb^er  then  are,  atber  In  the  records  of  the  chnrdi 
or  in  tbe  memoiy  of  loms  inhabilanta  at  present  70  veara 
old,  anv  drcumstaneea  occorring  on  the  4lh  of  AprS. 
1819,  whicb  may  fasTe  nren  riae  to  the  legend  ?  I  Oaa 
ftel  extnmely  obUged  oy  a  word  in  reply,  and  enrlaaw 
my  address.— I  am,  dnr  air,  yonn  respectfully,  M.  Qai^ 
UEiniB  (Wealejnn  Minister)." 

[Enckaarei.] 
Tbii  ia  the'broadiheat  in  Fieocb,  a  translation  <£ 
which  is  appended. 

[EMteoraG.] 

'   '  I  apparitloB 
and  charch 

^ irgh,  in  the  county 

ot  Lincoln,  on  Snndav,  April  *th,  1819,  with  a  report  of 
the  conversation  wbich  took  place  between  thcoe  last,  the 
angel  and  the  minister,  in  the  course  of  which  tbe  angel 
exhorted  the  English  people  to  repentance.  The  preseot 
aecoimt,  in  token  of  truth,  has  been  atleated  by  these 
gentlemen,  who  have  affiled  thdr  nwpective  algnatures 
to  it— On  Sunday,  tlie  4tti  of  April.  1819,  from  tbe  bells 
of  tbe  parish  were  hesnl  sounds  more  anft  and  barmonioua 
than  had  ever  been  heard  befbre,  which  filled  tbe  in* 


kept  tbe  keys  of  tl 

extraordinary  circamstance.  One  asld  to  tbe  other,  'Let 
fWch  Mr.  King '  (the  minister  who  was  to  preach  that 
day),  and  all  having  stepped  fbr  an  instant  bdcre  tfa» 
church,  were  nnable  to  recover  fhim  their  surprise  oa 
bearing  tbe  bells  ring  ao  sweetly.  Hr.  King;  said,  '  In 
tbe  name  of  the  Lord  let  na  open  tbe  door,'  bnt  first  he 
exborted  tbem  to  eay  the  following  prayer :  '  O  Lord 
God,  give  us  all  needful  time  to  think  of  our  latter  end, 
deliver  us  not  over  to  the  horron  ot  death  and  clemal 
torments,  but  grant  us  grace  to  prepare  to  make  our- 
selves worthy  of  Thy  goodness  and  infinite  merdes, 
through  tbe  merits  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  whom 
with  Thee  and  tbe  Holy  Spirit  be  all  honour  and  glorv, 
now  and  ever,  amen.'  After  which  Mr.  King  said,  ''O 
Heavenly  Father,  we  yieW  ourselvee  to  Thy  ailL'  Then 
the  clerk,  at  the  name  of  the  Lord,  opened  the  door.  After 
having  prayed  together  in  the  chnrch,  they  ascended  to 
the  belfry,  where  tbey  saw  the  bells  ringing  as  before^ 
and  looking  round  them  they  perceived  a  child,  appa- 
rently about  sevea  years  of  age,  dmased  in  whil^  and 
having  a  crown  of  gold  npon  his  head,  who,  by  the  awra 
power  of  his  breath,  set  the  bells  ia  motion,  and  caoaed 
tliem  to  ring  in  tb^  liarmonioua  manner,  to  the  anat 
present.     Mr.  King, 

..  thou?'  'I  am,'  he  replied,  'the 
the  Lord,  and  I  am  come  to  exhort  all  men  lo  repent- 
anea.'    The  minister  then  said  to  him,  'And  for  what 

do  jou  bring  us  this  message  V   '  I  am  seat  by 
'         '    *  '    attend  without  ceasing  daily 


apokeaman,  said  to  the  ct 


the  Lord  Ii 


n  account  of  the      God's  eight  all  spiritaal  acts,  and  to  pray  every  day. 

'—  -'-  ""  9,  of  an     eapecialty  that  He  will  piepare  you  Ibr  t^  last  dav,  that 

— „-  —  - —  - —  —  -  .  — r> T  — ,  —  is  said,     dreadful  day  of  jodgmant,  when  the  world  will  ha  *•• 

caused  the  bslla  of  the  church  to  ni«  by  breathing  apon  |  stnyed  byfire.'    And  be  added, 'There  wilt  come  agaia 


*•  S.  VII.  March  26, -Tl.]  NOTES   AND   QUERIES. 


ass 


«iUmib)iu  timea  npoa  all  Ehmm  in  propartloD  u  mBn 
prave  thonaalTce  nngodly,  in«liglaas,  and  imgnteful, 
Mpwiallj  in  tba  coantrki  -wbat  viicue  uid  tniUi  oaght 
--  -'-'-m  moat  bright)]-.  God  hu  looked  long  for  "•" 
"'      "  '  '  ywherB,  instead,  fr 

LB  God  of  Heaven, 

iriU lonnent  tEie  Cbristioo  nations  in  my  anger;  I  will 
pmiih  them  for  their  inickedn«u ;  I  will  amite  tbem  with 
>  mmrge  of  small-pox  and  diven  other  diseases,  becanae 
thej  have  proTolied  mj  wrath,"  Bot  before  theaa  calami- 
tie*  artiTe  the  King  of  France  will  endeavoor  to  aggnm- 
diie  bli  power;  grand  preparations  for  war  will  be  made 
in  all  parts  of  Chriatecdom  ;  but  the  Kiag  of  Prance  will 
am  lua  power  hambled,  for  diacord  will  tronble  and  de- 
atro?  his  kingdom.'  The  messenger  from  heaven  atill 
coDtinned  to  ejihort  them  to  repentance,  by  telling 

approached.    Then  the  mil 

.  _   n  know  all  those  things?'   The 

angel  replied  :  '  My  HeaTenl;  Master  reveala  notbing  to 
his  aerranta  for  their  own  use,  bnt  has  sent  me  to  you, 
to  warn  yon  to  repent  of  yoor  ^ns  before  He  lavs  His 
heav]' band  upon  you.'  And  he  added,  'Comewithme, 
I  luTe  still  another  miracle  to  show  yon.'  Having  con- 
daeted  them  into  the  interior  of  the  church,  he  uld  to 
them, '  Lilt  np  this  stone.'  All  hBTii^  endeavonred  to  do 
BO,  and  not  being  able  to  mcceed  id  removing  it,  the 
minister  cried.  'Lord,  have  pity  on  us  1'  'Very  weU,'  said 
the  child,  'Come  near  me.  Are  yoa  afraid  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord?  If  yonr  faith  is  bo  weak,  when  a  mesBeoger 
from  Faradiae  is  with  yon,  how  can  you  hope  to  he  strong 
moo^  to  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven  t '  Theo,  laying 
hia  handa  upon  the  stone,  he  tnmed  it  over,  to  the  great 
utmlilunMt  of  the  beholdera.  Ttien  he  picked  up  a  roll 
«r  paper  which  was  under  this  stone,  and  upon  which 
WH  written  in  letters  of  [gold,  'England I  England! 
nnonnee  yonr  nngodliness,  and  hastan  to  repent  of  it  I ' 
.  .  ,  Then  he  disappeared,  amidst  the  sonnd  of  melodious 
mnaic,  leaving  the  persons  who  were  present  end  bad  the 
bapiHiKa  of  aeeing  him,  in  a  stale  of  rapture  and  ecstacy. 
Id  (estimoDy  of  which,  we,  the  nnderaigned,  aincerely 
and  poaltjvdy  declare  the  truth  of  the  statement  above 
related,  c^ven  under  onr  respective  signatures  the  4th 
April,  1819.— Ma.  KiKo  and  Ms.  Hobm,  mintstera ;  Wu. 
" "a,  John  Codlstos,  and  Joum  Book,  Eaqra." 


THE  ORIGIN  OF  ASCHBISHOP  STAFFOED. 

John  Stafford  was  Archbialiop  of  Canterbtiij 
sod  ChanceUor  of  Eoglajid  dunn^aome  of  tlie 
most  troubled  years  of  the  rewn  of  Henry  VI.  It 
has  generallj  'Been  asaumed  that  he  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  great  familj  of  hia  soniame  which,  aa 
Earli  of  Stafford  or  of  Bevonshiie,  or  Dukss  of 
Buckiogbam,  were  »a  diatiogiiuhed  under  the 
Uter  Flantagenets  and  the  earlier  Tudors.  But, 
although  it  may  be  conceded  tbat  be  belonged  to 
tbe  bmilj,  it  ia  not  msj  to  trace  the  [larticular 
Ittaiu^  tmm  which  he  sprang,  nor  to  decide  whe- 
ther hia  birth  was  or  was  not  legitimate.  The 
queation  b  not  without  intdreBt,  and  ma;  be  elu- 
cidated so  much  hy  ventilation  in  the  columns  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  that  I  am  induced  to  send  you  a  brief 
rtntmt  of  tbe  facta  of  the  earn,  and  to  hope  that 
aome  c£  jonr  readers  who  are  versed  in  such 
matters  may  be  able  to  cleai  up  tbe  difficulties 
which  Burrounil  it. 

It  we.s  suggested  to  my  own  mind  by  ji  visit  to 


is  Septembris  Anno 


the  ToiT  out-of-tbe-way  village  of  North  Bradley, 
on  tbe  Wdeia  of  Wilts  and  Somersetshire.  Open- 
ing &am  the  chancel  of  the  pariah  church  is  a 
north  ebtqiel  of  late  Ferpendicular  work,  but  un- 
finished outmde  in  parte  of  tbe  carving.  In  the 
window,  which  faces  north,  is  an  altar-tomb  beai- 
ing  an  incised  figure  of  a  lady  and  this  inscrip- 

"fficji 

Domini, 

Arcbiepi,  que  obiit  quinio  die  mensis  Septembris  A 
Dai  Hilleaimo  CCCCmo  .  quadrigesimo  .  Cujua  an.  ppcie- 
tncDeua  .  Amen.ODeua  trina,me  Job'>  couserva  rulai."  . 

There  is  a  great  deal  here  about  "  me  Job"  " 
and  very  littie  about  his  mother.  It  really  looks 
as  if  be  was  anxious  by  tbe  greatness  of  his  own 
personal  dignity  to  cover  any  tittle  ahortcominga 
of  which  "  Domina  Emma  '  might  have  been 
g:uilty.  The  tomb  will  be  found  fully  described 
m  Canon  Jackson's  edition  of  Aubrey,  where  also 
the  curious  questions  suggested  by  it  aie  set  forth 
at  length.  If  this  "  Emma  "  was  the  arcbbiabop's 
mother,  who  wee  bis  father  P  If  hia  father  was 
the  husbiLnd  of  this  "  Emma,"  why  is  he  not  men- 
tioned on  the  monument  P  Is  Uiere  any  other 
example  of  this  kindP  Soea  any  other  eccle- 
siastic of  tbat  peiiod  commemorate  his  mother  by 
herself;  and  if  he  does,  has  his  legitimate  been 
ascertained  P 

I  may  endeavour  to  point  out  the  little  that  is 
known  in  answer  to  these  questions.  Batteley 
{Cantuaria  Sacra,  p.  76)  calls  the  archbishop  the 
son  of  Sir  Humphrey  Stafford  "  with  the  silver 
hand,"  and  his  wife  Elizabeth  Dynham.  Banks 
(Extinct  Baronage,  U.  541J  makes  tbe  same  state- 
ment in  the  text,  but  modifies  it  in  the  pedigree 
at  the  end  of  the  article  by  cautiously  adding  in 
parentbeeia  to  the  name  of  Dynham  the  words  "  or 
Aumarle."  A-  very  complete  genealogical  table 
of  the  Staffords  is  to  be  found  in  Cr4l.  Top.  et  Oert. 
vL  336,  and  if  it  is  correct  this  statement  of 
Banks's  is  erroneous.  There  ie,in  fact,  great  con- 
fusion between  tbe  two  Sir  Humphreys,  and  both 
eeem  to  bave  been  called  the  "silver-handed"; 
at  least  the  Tounjier  has  the  name  in  tbe  CoUec- 
tonaa,  and  the  elder  in  Tettamatta  Vetusta  (see 
p.  166).  According  to  the  pedigree  just  men- 
tioned,  the  elder  Sir  Humphrey  had  two  wives— 
namely,  first  Elizabeth,  nie  D'Aumarle,  widow  of 
Bir  John  Uautravere,  and  mother  of  £liiabe& 
MautraTors,  tbe  wife  of  yotmg  Sir  Humphrey; 
and,  secondly,  Alice,  daughter  and  co-heiress  of 
Sir  Adam  Seville.  But  this  Alice  cannot  have 
been  the  mother  of  tbe  younger  Sir  Humphrey, 
although  this  ia  stated  in  the  CoUtaUntea,  since  he 
is  mentioned  in  the  will  of  hia  stepmother  as 
being  her  daughter  Mautravers's  husoacd.  Nor 
was  Alice  tbe  mother  of  tbe  archbishop  (who,  by 
tbe  way,  is  not  named  in  the  above-mentioned 
pedigree),  because  we  see  by  tbe  tomb  tbat  his 


251 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Riolher'a  Dome  was  "Emma."  He  is  meatioDed 
in  the  will  of  the  jounger  Sir  Humpbrev  as  his 
brother  John,  Biahop  of  Bath  nnd  WAli.  So 
that  at  the  time  of  his  erecting  this  monament  at 
North  Bradley,  hia  brother  and  father  were  both 
dead;  the  latter  having  died  in  1413,  eome  thirty 
years  befora ;  and  hia  mother  must  hare  been  dead 
at  least  three  years,  because  he  did  not  become 
archbishop  till  1443.  He  had  been  made  Bishop 
of  Bath  in  1425,  so  that  his  birth  must  have  been 
antedated  beyond  1406,  at  which  time  the  (aup- 
posed)  first  wife  of  his  father  died.  (See  Nicolas, 
Tftrf.  Vttutl.  p.  166.)  He  was,  therefore,  clearly  not 
the  son  of  a  second  wife,  end  it  Is  not  posuble  he 
was  thia  Blk^ieth  huAj  Stafford'a  son.  On  the 
whole,  then,  we  are  driven  to  the  conclusion  first 
started  by  Gascoigne,  a  nearly  conterapm^  au- 
thority, who  (Lewis's  Life  of  Peeoek)  speaks  of 
him  as  "bastardua  origine."  On  the  other  hand. 
Canon  Jackson  joints  out  that  the  archloshop  in- 
herited certun  lands  in  Wiltshire  in  1443  on  the 
demise  of  a  (preaumed)  relative,  which  does  not 
accord  with  the  bypotheMa.  But  can  it  be  proved 
that  the  land  did  not  come  by  bequest  or  settle- 
Again,  we  have  certain  examples  of  similar  mo- 
nuraeDls.  lam  only  acquainted  with  one;  but  there 
ire  serera),  I  believe,  in  eiisl«nce.  In  Buxtead 
church,  Sussex  (Haines's  Monumental  Biaases,  ii.) 
ia  tbe  following  epitaph  of  the  middle  of  the 
fifteenth  century,  or  just  coeval  with  the  Norlh 
Bradley  tomb ; — 

^pint  iinbngt  bDl)ti  flcu^i  &  boon 
Sobl.  bnan  Siant  taat  airioH  brirc : 

Crfit  gslini  9oiit  bcin  ul  s  mnnbe: 
to  Spbi  &  ^bl.  ^n;tt  Sam  (mtS)x:bt 
thuX  etef  if  jjs.  toeiit  bin  pnsiclr  ni  fit ; 
6n.  unit  t\i  0113  rm'H  In  bi  n!io.     ^nif. 
Now,  if  it  could  be  ascertained  vhetber  this 
Ilobert  Savage  was  bom  in  wedlock  or  not,  some 
light  might  be  thrown  on  Stafford's  case.    Here, 
'-  will  be  obeerred,  the  surname  of  the- mother  is 
Is   her  son  properly  called  Savage  in 
[aines,  nr  is  it  posuble  to  ascertain  by  the  parish 
records  that  he  bore  any  other  name  ?    I  have  no 
doubt  some  of  your  correspondents  may  be  able 
at  least  to  make  sure  that  the  desired  informa- 
tion la  not  in  eiistence. 

Heraldry  seems  to  throw  little  or  no  light  on 
the  subject.  Although  Aubrey  mentiona  the  re- 
itiMDS  cf  a  coat  "quarterly"  as  existing  in  his 
lime,  and  Canon  Jackson  cuniecturea  uiat  this 
mar  be  the  arms  of  Seville,  which  were  "quar- 
teTJy,or  and  gules,"  yet,  aa  we  have  aeen  that  the 
archbishop  eanaot  have  been  the  son  of  Sir  Hum- 
phrey's second  wife,  even  if  we  change  her  name 
rmm  Alice  to  Eauua  Seville,  this  tella  us  nothing. 
Then  is  no  shield  or  badge  of  the  Sliffindt  among 


the  carvings  of  the  chapal,  which  a 
nor  do  tie  archbuhop's  "— "  "™-  - 


!  very  rich ; 
they  01 


thing,  though  they  are  not  inconsistent  with  1  . 
hypodiesis  of  his  low  origin.  Willement  gives 
them  thos  (Catiferfrrir]/,  p.  22): — "In  the  north 
tiauaept,  tbe  arms'  of  the  see  of  Cacterbury,  I'm- 
paling  '  Or,  on  a  chevron  gules,  a  mitre  proper,  a 
bordure  engrwled  sable,'  "  This  bordure  is  en- 
tirely different  from  any  known  example  of  the 
system  of  cadency  In  use  in  tbe  Stafford  family, 
and  at  first  sight  has,  to  heraldic  ejea,  a  strong 
look  of  illegitimacy ;  but  we  must  take  into  ac> 
count  the  fact  that  Archbishop  Arundel,  who  died 
in  1414,  used  a  "  bordure  enarailed  argent "  round 
his  paternal  arms,  and  Aicnbiahop  Kemp,  Staf- 
ford a  immediate  suceeaaor,  differenced  his  with  a 
similar  bordure  of  gold. 

It  seems  strange  that  such  eminent  authorities 
as  Banks,  Balteley,  Hasted,  Dugdale,  Fuller, 
Weaver,  and  Dart  should  all  have  been  more  or 
jess  in  error  regarding  the  real  origin  of  this 
eminent  prelate.  W.  J.  Loftig. 


s; 


Lokokvitt:    Johk   Bailbs,  who  lives   is 

TnitES  Cbhtukies. — Under  ttie  portico  of  All 

Saints  Church,  Northampton,  is  a  tablet,  bearing 

au  inscription,  of  which  I  give  a  fac-aimila  :— 

"  Here  under  Ij-eth 

John  Bailu  Born  In  thii 

Town  he  n-as  above  ISS 

yeaia  vV\  A  bad  bis  bcirinr 

Sliht&Memon-lnj-laJl 

He  lived  In  8  Cenlarvs. 

&  tras  buried  v  14'^  at  Anr 

1T06," 

Let  me  add  that  in  the  rhihiophicat  Transae- 
(i'on»,  vol.  ixv.  (1700),  will  be  found  An  Account 
of  the  Death  and  Dissection  of  this  remerkable 
Man,  by  Dr.  James  KeilL  The  following  is  an 
extract : — 

"  Jobn  Baj'tet,  Ibe  old  button  miher  of  Korthampton, 
is  commonly  reputed  to  have  been  180  years  of  age 
vhen  lie  died.  There  19  no  regiiler  lo  old  in  the  piriih 
wbcre  he  nas  chiinICDed  J  bat  the  oldiut  people,  of  vhich 
some  are  100,  olhcra  90,  and  olhera  80  yeair,  remember 
him  Id  hare  been  old  when  they  were  roung.  The  ac- 
count), indeed,  differ  much  Trom  one  sn'>ther  r  but  all 
agree  that  ha  Taa  at  least  ViO  yenr^  Ho  himeelf  did 
alirays  affirm  that  he  was  at  'nibnry  camp,  and  told 
■eveial  pirtienlan  about  it ;  and  if  Ve  allow  him  to 
have  been  but  12  yearn  old  then,  he  must  bare  been  130 
when  ha  died.  Uc  used  conitanclj  to  walk  to  the  neicti- 
booring  marketa  with  hia  bnltons  within  these  twelve 
^eara ,  but  of  late  he  has  been  decrepid  and  carried  abroad. 
"  '*  t  wu  auj thing  he  could  ^t.  I  never  heard  be 
re  fond  et  one  eort  of  food  than  another,  nnleaa  it 
t,  about  a  year  before  he  died,  ha  longedfnrgame 

'paety<  but  had  it  not.    Hia  bodv  was  exlremelv 

emaciated ;  and  his  flesb  feeling  hard,  'the  shape  of  all 
tbe  external  moactea  was  plainly  to  be  «en  thttmgh  "" 


&""cL 


all 


4'»s.Tn.  Uai.c.125,71.]  KOTES  and  queries. 


235 


It  is  stated  elsewhere  thnt  "  Catherine,  his 
dAughter,  died  in  this  town  at  the  advanced  age 
of  103  jeoTB."  Thokas  Walesby. 

■  TnB  DoMiBiciNS. — It  may  be  na  ■well  to  re- 
cord in  "  N.  &  Q."  that  the  long-deserted  con- 
rant  of  Geronde,  Sieire,  Valais,  has  just  been 
token  posaesaion  of  b;  some  Dominicnns  front  a 
dissolved  Italian  convent.  Tbe  ntoolis  are  most 
learned  men,  and  have  met  with  a  truly  cordial 
receptioD  from  the  Swiss  of  all  confesaions.  The 
convent  is  on  the  summit  of  a  hill  that  overlooks 
the  lake  Oeronde — a  lake  not  five  minutea'  walk 
from  Sierre  (Simplon  route),  and  ^et  unknown  ti 
the  majority  of  tourists  who  visit  Switzerland , 
even  the  guide  booka  ignore  it,  as  they  do  the 
Lac  Noir,  near  Fribourg  (Suisse). 

Jambs  Hehbt  Bixoh. 
Porar  DE  Vice. — Malvolio  says,  "I  will  be 
point  de  vice  the  very  man."    There  are  peopk 
Craven  who  atill  asy  "point  vice"  to  express 
thln^  being  perfect  (pronounciog  these  words  in 
the  English  wny).    I  have  a  neighbour  who,  de- 
scribing the  premises  of  another  fanner,  concluded 
by  sayinjr,  "  Oh !  he  is  a  very  particular  mait;  he 
will  hsve  every  thing 'about  his  place  point  vice." 
Ellcee. 
Craven. 

Prosodt. — In  addition  to  the  liberties  already 
noticed  (p.  32}  as  having  been  taken  with  well- 
known  poems,  I  have  just  found  another  inatance 
in  a  irork  entitled  ProgreMice  Lettoia  in  Reading, 
&C.  (Glasgow,  1861),  where  Hohenliaden  is  again 
the  principal  victim.  In  this  collection  we  have 
the  alterations — 

"  Bf  torch  and  (rampct  lotntd  arravcd." 
"  y<illtyiiig  like  the  bolta  of  huaven." 
"  SbiU  mnrk  a  aoldiet'a  ctinilirg." 

The  bad  taste  of  the  above  must  be  evident  to  the 
majority  of  readers. 

Again,  in  the  same  work,  the  following  altera- 
tion occurs  in  the  beautiful  poem  of  The  Cuckoo 
(U.  Bruce  or  Logan)  >— 

"Sterli  llu  new  nici  of  $pnyig  to  heir"— 
a  hirpUng  line,  and  very  inferior  surely   to   the 
rhythm  of  the  original — 

"  on  iftfu,  tbj  cDrioaa  voles  to  hear." 

The  sentiment  is  that  of  re^io^e,  which  efnrff  seems 

greatly  to  injure.  '  Sp. 

HuasAKDUAK.— In  confirmation  of  the  mean- 

mff  whiclf  I  attached  to  the  designation  Kus- 


name,  and  one  who  on  other  occamons  may  have 
been  styled  a  gentleman. 

Also  the  following  in  the  register  of  St.  John's 
pariah  in  Newcaatle-upon-Tjne ; — 

"  Dmpbrave  Hiirope,Auiianifman,aDii  Fortune  Sbafto, 
9nU/cisQiiu»i,'inani«d20  Jan.  1609." 

It  is  evident  that  a  Husbandman  was  one  who 
tilled  his  own  land,  in  distinction  to  a  Farmer, 
who  occupied  the  land  of  another  person. 

Latterly,  the  term  Yeoman  has  been  substituted, 
and  the  volimteer  troops  of  Yeomaury  Cavalry 
have  probably  contributed  to  re-establish  the  use 
of  that  more  ancient  designation.  But  whether 
the  ancient  Yeoman  was  always  so  important  a 

Serson  as  a  small  land-owner  I  think  somewhat 
oubtfuL  I  imngine  that  he  was  rather  such  a 
man,  whether  a  land-owner  or  not,  as  was  com- 
petent to  perform  good  serri(»  with  his  bow, 
when  the  sturdy  archers  were  the  main  force  of 
English  armies.  John  Ooitoh  Nichols. 

Stni-DiAi  Insckiftiobs. — 


Kice. 

P.  w.  s. 

H6ti!l  de  Luxembourg,  Nice. 

Rev.  Jakes  IIbrvet  aitd  William  IIooiHTir. 
Mr.  Cole,  the  eccentric  bookseller  of  Scarborou^'h, 
preserves  the  following  anecdote  of  the  celebrated 
author  of  The  AfeditaCuna .-  — 

"He  poaseaied  'rellzion  withant  eIooid';  wan  a  tera- 
pbic  'and  verr  cbeetful  man,  thousb  alwAya  ill';  and 
the  foUoning  anecdote  will  eafflcieatlj  sb'ow  that  be 
woald  lometimeB  indulge  a  faceCioaa  humour :— He  Bent 
■n  inviution  to  the  Bev.  William  Willis,  Reetor  of  Little 
BilllDg,  hia  pBrticolarfiiciid  and  nearneighboar,  in  the 
roUowing  terms:  '  Voluntai  lum,  Wualui  etlmtcaiH 
ira  Ptrra  ■?':  [bna  readerln)^  hli  frlend'a  name  into 
Latin,  aod  nriag  anuther  Latin  term,  and  three  Greek 
chaiaclera  for  the  [eDiaioder ;  that  ia,  in  Engliah, '  Wil- 
liam Willis  eat  a  bit  of  pie  with  nifl  ?  '"— ferMuna;  or 
Graphic  aad  Liltmry  SAtlcha,  illutlraliee  of  the  Life 
and  lyritiitgi  of  the  See.  Jamea  HerBty,  JU.A.,  part  the 

second,  Svo,  1823,  p.  87. 
Fluellen  could  see  a  resemblance  between  Alace- 
in  and  Vonmonth — there  was  a  river  in  each. 


bandman  in  my  remarks  (p.  170)  on  the  Arden 
ancestora  of  Shakespeare,  tne  follawing  entry  ii 
the  parish  register  of  Barwell,  co.  Leicester,  is  ser- 


it  of'  the  well-known  family  of  the 


pious  rector  of  Weston  Favell  and-the  great  artist 
Willis m  Ilogarth ;  for  the  same  idea — it  is  hardly 
likely  that  either  knew  of  the  other's  existence — 
seetnstohaveoocurredcoincidentally toboth.  The 
humorous  vignette  of  a  platter  between^a  knife 
and  fork,  on  the  en^ved  title  of  Nichols's 
Anecdoltt  of  Hogarth,  is  familiar  to'  us,  'as  also  its 
reproduction  on  the  title-page  of  a  little  volume 
of  more  recent  date.  From  this  I  quote  the  fol- 
lowing description :  — 


258 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES.        [4*aTiLMiBCH!6.7L 


■Iratdi  on  >  end  of  InriUtioti  addrcand  to  Dr.  Arnold 
^ng;  B  eomet  fmc-limilc  of  which  tomia  tbBTigiMtle 
in  out  engraved  tiile-page.  Within  ■  circle,  tontuch  ■ 
knift  and  fork  an  tha  «upport«t8,  the  writlen  part  U  coo- 
tained.  In  the  centre  la  drawn  a  pifj  with  ■  mUrt  on  tha 
top  of  it ;  and  the  inTiUtioo  •k  oar  artiot  conclodaa  with 
the  rollowing  piece  of  wit  on  the  (hne  Greek  chaiactara, 
II  ^w  (to  eta  beta  pt)." — Eaeulric  tad  Humoroia  LtOeri 
o/Emaent  Jfm  and  ITawa,  12iiio,  1824,  p.  45, 

PerhupB  these  resembling  eflbrta  of  wit  m»j  be 
■bown  to  bare  a  common  origin. 

William  Batm, 
Bira^gham. 

BiBDIIt's  "BlBLtOSBArmCAL  BsCAHXBOlf."— 

'Will  Tou  allow  me  to  ofier  a  samestion  as  to  tbis 
bookuithoMg«so[  "N.  &Q.'T  It  is,  that  tbe 
text  of  the  book  ahould  be  reprinted.  The  time, 
labonr,  and  expeoM  that  wotild  be  required  to 
reproduce  the  illustrations  (supposiDg  the  original 
plates  and  wood-blocks  to  be  no  longer  in  exist- 
ence) would,  I  fear,  deter  any  publisher  from 
attempting  to  reissue  a  fac-rimile  of  the  book. 
But,  even  for  an  undertaking  of  such  magnitade, 
I  think  a  sufficient  number  of  subscribers  might 
be  found.  Hsve  we  not  seen  in  our  days  a  repro- 
duction of  D'Hozier's  noble  Armorial  gtniral  da  la 
Francet  But  the  reprinting  of  the  text  would 
not  be  a  Tery  arduous  undertaking,  and  would,  I 
am  sure,  be  a  great  boon  to  all  bibuographere  who 
are  not  fortunate  enough  to  possess  the  original 
Tolumes.  Even  many  of  those  who  do  would,  I 
belieTe,  he  glad  of  a  working  copy  of  the  text,  to 
save  the  wesr  and  tear  of  constant  reference  to 
the  beautiful  otigioaL  Of  course,  in  all  Instances 
where  in  the  original  reference  is  made  to  a 
woodcut,  the  reference  in  the  reprint  would  re- 
gnire  to  be  altered  to  the  page  of  the  book  m 
MS.  from  which  the  cut  is  drawn.  Various  little 
altetattona  of  this  kind  would  be  necessary,  but 
would  cause  little  or  no  trouble.  ThoDgn  the 
book  contains  a  good  deal  of  nonsense,  it  is  yet 
delightful  reading  to  all  lofers  of  ancient  books 
andMSS.  So  I  offer  my  suggestiom,  as  the  pfarMe 
ffoes,  "for  what  it  is  worth,"  hoping  that  yon, 
Mr.  Editor,  will  at  least  allow  the  sulgect  to  be 
mentioned  in  the  pages  of  your  widely-iead  paper. 
F.  M.  3. 


(Elunftf. 


Lower,  in  his  Patronymtea  Britamioa,  explains 
Ward  aa  meaning  "  a  guard  or  keeper."  He  states 
that  Ward,  standing  umply,  is  "one  of  our  com- 
monest surnames — 187  traders  bearing  it  in  the 
London  Diredory  of  1862 :  besides  forming  the 
termination  of  several  others,  aa  Ay tward.  Bur- 
ward,  Hayward,  Keoward,  Milwmid,  Woodward, 


Ac."  Thoe  are  abo  the  names  of  Warden, 
Warder,  OanL  Garden,  and  Lesard,  which  are 
considered  by  Mr.  Lower  to  be  of  similar  import. 
Of  the  compound  names  which  he  mentions,  the 
first,  descended  from  the  Saxon  i^waid,  is  per- 
haps a  doubtful  member  of  this  iratemi^.  Ken- 
ward,  he  coniectures,  may  have  been  derived  btaa 
a  eima-hearu,  or  cow-keeper:  as  we  know  that,  in 
some  cases  at  leastj  Coward  is  from  Cow-herd. 
But  the  point  to  which  I  wish  to  direct  iocitiiij  it 
tbis — whet  waa  tha  occupation,  or  function,  of  a 
WnrdP  whose  particular  employment  in  guarding 
or  keeping  a  wood,  or  a  mill,  or  a  bay,  Ac,  is  n<» 
specified.  Was  he  the  same  as  a  HetdP  now 
Heard.  Or  were  not  many  of  those  who  haT» 
left  the  name  of  Ward  to  their  posteri^  reallj 
what  we  now  understand  as  wards  P  wards  ja 
Chancery,  or  wards  lA  tbeir  feudal  superior.  It  ia 
well  known  that  the  Crown  had  so  many  wards 
that  there  was  a  special  Court  of  Wards  and 
Liveries  for  the  administration  of  their  aSHia. 
Mr.  Lower  makes  no  allowance  at  all  for  this 
origin  of  the  name  of  Wsrd.  Under  the  name  of 
Wardedieu  or  Wardeux,  however,  he  quotes  tie 
authpr  of  Sadiam  and  ilt  Lordt  as  stating  that  that 
Sussex  name  (of  which  William  de  Waidediea 
was  living  temp.  Hen.  III.)  originated  from  a  cadet 
of  the  family  of  Monceux,  Lords  of  Ilurstmoa- 
ceux,  who  was  a  ward  of  the  Earl  of  Eu  :  a 
derivation  that  seems  far-fetcbed,  and  requires 
corroboration.  Mr.  Lower  derives  the  name  of 
Legard  from  "Fr.  le  garde,  the  guard,  keeper,  or 
warden."  But  was  U  garde  ever  a  French  word 
applied  to  a  person  P  Qord«  is  in  French  a  femi- 
nine noun,  and  its  meaning  the  same  as  ovrgward. 
(There  is  the  French  surname  Be  la  Gardt.)  Th» 
person  who  guards  is  a  gardUn,  our  guardiait  or 
learden.  I  entertain  a  doubt,  therefore,  whether 
a  Ward  was  realljr  an  officer  or  a  person  employed 
in  guarding ;  and  if  Ur.  Lower  is  right,  should  be 
glad  to  have  some  examples  that  will  furnish  the 
information  aa  to  the  duty  a  Ward  had  to  per- 
form. J.O.N. 

Bears'  Eabs.— In  a  collection  of  garden  flowers 
as  early  as  the  reign  of  James  I.,  I  find  the  term 
"  Bearsears,"  whicn  I  presume  means  the  an-* 
ricula.    Has  that  word  been  long  disused  P 

Tbos.  E.  WciHixaiov. 


Urn  aurictila,  in  aQoRoa  to  the  abspe  of  the  Igaf."] 

Boitbnb  and  Cbopt.— Anthony  Bourne  of  Holt* 

CO.  Worcester,  eon  of  Sir  John  Bourne  of  Batten- 
ball,  one  of  the  principal  secretaries  of  state  ttnm. 
Queen  Mary  (see  "N.  £  Q.,"  4"  S.  vi.  216),  is 
said  to  hsve  bad  issue  an  only  daughter  and 
heiress  Mary,  who  married  Edward  Croft  of  thft  [^, 
Croft  Castle  family,  in  Huefordsbire ;  but  accord-','^ 


4"s.Tii.iiADcn!s.'7i.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


257 


ing  to  tome,  t)iis  Mr.  Croft  Diuried  Anne  Brown 
(•ee  BethaiD,  ii.  418).    'VV'hich  is  correct  F 

H.s.a. 

BsiiniAV,  ToBKsniBB. — I  mah  to  obtain  anj 
particolars  relflting  to  the  early  libtoi;  of  the 
parish  church  of  Bramham,  West  RidinK.  Tork- 
•hire,  dedicated,  saye  Allen  (Hittoryoftlie  Coutib/ 
c/Tork,  iii.  313,  London,  1831),  to  All  Sainta; 
anything  relnting  to  William  Jomea,  who  -waa 
tIcbi  there  ia  1088,  or  to  his  immediate  predecea- 
ear,  and  to  a  cert^a  Bicbard  Smith,  baptised  in 
this  church  Maj  10, 1693,  and  bnried  there  No- 
Tcmber  19, 1617;  or  to  hia  aon  Richard,  of  the 
same  parish,  bom  in  1626,  who  waa  one  of  the 
eailj  proprietors  of  New  Jereej  in  America,  and 
some  of  vhose  children  settled  there. 

Taos.  Stbwabmok,  Jb. 

L.  Tov  Bebthovxit.^I  find  in  the  Diciioimau-e 
Awtorwiw  det  Miuieiau,  printed  at  Paris  in  1810, 
tlw  Ibilowing : — 

"  Bkkthoven  (Lanii-Tan),  qaa  Ton  a  dit  fll<  natarel 
de  FiMeric  Goillauma  U,  roi  d«  PruMa,  est  ai  a  Bodd, 
«nl772.' 

What  was  the  origin  of  this  eztraordinaTj 
atatament  about  Beethoven's  parentage  f  The 
date  above  civeD  is  also  wrong.  It  ought  to  be 
Dec.  17, 1770,  aa  everybody  knows.     FT  W.  M. 

PoBTSATT  OF  Cakesox  07  LooHiBL. — We  are 
«xeeedingly  anxious  to  know  if  there  exists  in  anv 
^ape  a  portrait  of  Donald  Cameron  of  LochieL 
the  hero  of  Campbell's  well-known  poem,  and 
who  took  a  prominent  part  on  behalf  of  Prince 
Charlie  to  the  rebellioQ  of  1745.  We  have  made 
ap^catioD  at  varioos  qnarters,  both  in  England 
tod  Scotland,  hot  without  success ;  and  have 
reason  to  believe  that  the  present  representative 
tX  the  clan  Cameron  ia  not  aware  that  any  por- 
trait of  his  ancestor  exists.  If  any  of  your  rebels 
know  of  Buch  a  portrait,  they  would  confer  npon 
as  a  very  great  favour  indeed  by  letting  ni  hnow 
wbeie  it  is  to  be  found. 

By  bringing:  the  above  want  under  the  notice 
of  your  readers,  you  will  very  much  oblige. 

A.  FULLABIOH  &  Co. 

StMtd'a  Place,  Ldth  Walk,  Edinbmgh. 

CouBT  Modbnucs. — Can  any  of  youi  readers 

inform  me  of  a  book  or  books  which  regulate 

mourning  dreea  at  court  P  Are  "weepera"  a  part  of 

«ourt  mouming  f     What  utd  whence  are  they  P 

M.A. 

Chestb. — I  have  been  hitherto  under  the  im- 
pression that  the  assumption  of  more  than  one 
crest  (except  in  the  follovring  cases)  was  wholly 
tBOonecL  The  excepted  caws  kre— where  a  per- 
son entitled  to  bear  arms  had  legally  aesnmed, 
by  Act  of  Farliameut  or  oUierwiae,  the  su 
and  arms  of  some  other  person  in  addition 
ovm   or  inherited  the  right    If  I  am  no 


taken,  it  is  stated  by  heraldic  authorities  that 
although  an  heiress  might  carry  the  arms  of  her 
family  into  that  of  her  husband,  she  was  in- 
capable of  conferring  the  right  on  him  of  using 
her  Other's  crest;  ioasmuch  as  ladies  were  not 
supposed  to  use  crests  in  the  place  where  they 
were  the  distinguishing  mark  of  a  knight  or 
leader,  namely,  in  battle.  However  I  lately  found, 
on  looking  over  the  Vi«itatim  ef  ZeiceOerihire 
(published  laat  yefc  by  the  Harleian  Society), 
aeveral  instances  to  the  contrary.  For  instance, 
Belgrave  (p.  07),  with  six  quartering,  bore  no 
less  than  lour  crests;  Beresfoid  (p.l72),  vrith 
three  ([uarteringa,  bore  two ;  Brudnell  (p.  148), 
with  eight  quarlerings,  had  three ;  Cave  (p.  ISl), 


with  three  quarterings,  had  two ;  and  Sturtm 
(p.  119^,  with  three  quartering^a,  bad  two.  I  am 
not  witliin  reach  of  any  authorities  on  this  ques- 
Hon,  but  I  hope  some  of  the  able  and  learned 

es^p<mdents  of  "  N.  &  Q,"  will  be  good  euough 

ly  othere 
'.S.JL 

"  OBOBfiB  Cantbbbiibi's  Will." — During  laat 
year  a  now  (?)  story  was  published  in  TiniWi 
Magaane,  called  "  Qeorge  Canterbury's  Will," 
but  my  mother  and  I  remember  having  read  a 
tale  containiog  all  the  main  incidents  many  years 
ago:  viz.,  the  marriage  of  a  youns  giil  to  a 
wealthy  c^d  man,  who  dies,  leaving  to  ner  and  her 
boy  the  bulk  of  his  property,  to  the  exclusion  of 
his  grown-up  daughters  by  the  first  wife ;  the 
pmsoning  of  the  boy  by  the  young  lady's  second 
nusband,  who  wants  her  money;  and  her  eecretlv 
making  a  will,  by  which  it  returns  to  its  rightful 
owners.  Can  any  of  your  readers  tell  ua  what 
the  stoiT  was  originally  called,  by  ^hom  it  was 
aaid  to  nave  been  written,  and  bow  aud  when  it 
was  published  ?  L.  C.  B. 

PmraBEB  07  Fairfax.— In  a  note  on  p.  6S  of 
A  Memoir  of  JbAn  Meadawt,  Clk.,  AM.,  by  the 
late  Edgar  Taylor,  F.S.A.,  it  is  stated  that  — 
"  tbna  ii  anoCber  pedigree  of  Fairfiuc  in  MS.  HarL 
6071,  compiled  in  1665  or  67,  beginniog  vrilh  Jobn  of 
Konrich;  md  I  have  bad  tba  benefit  of  another,  cMO- 

Elled  about  IC&e  by  an  Edward  Fairrax,  communicated 
7  the  Reverend  Joseph  Hooter,  F.S.A." 

If  the  present  possessor  of  the  latter  pedigree 
will  kindly  allow  me  to  inspect  it,  I  shall  be 
tnnch  obliged.  J.  Fctllbb  Ruhskll,  F.S.A. 

i,  Ormonde  Terrace,  Begent'i  Park. 

Bishop  Fullxb. — Wanted  the  parentage  of 
Waiiam  Fuller,  Bishop  of  Lincoln.        Y.  S.  M. 

HAHBsircKBir.'-This  word,  in  the  law  language 
of  Scotland,  denotes  (see  Janiieson's  Dictionarjf) 
the  crime  of  beating  or  assaulting  a  person  withm 
his  own  house.  Even  yet  the  punishment  on  the 
criminal  ia  verj^  '^^^^  ^^  '^  "*>  venr  distant 
period  was  oapitaL    Tus  offence,  it  has  bean 


S58 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.         [*•  a  Tii.  m^bcc  ss,  7i. 


alwkja  Btld,  is  enUrelj  unltnovn  in  >  spedfic  seue 
in  the  law  of  England,  and  the  word  does  not 
appear  in  anf  English  dictionarr.  There  is,  how- 
eTer,  one  instance  to  be  found  to  the  contrair. 
In  the  QuarUrly  Remevi  (xcii.  300)  it  is  said 
(referring  to  Scrope's  Hittwy  of  CatUe  Cumhe): 
"  quod  Johannes  ie  Tayllonr  fecit  AonMoiene  super 
dictum  rectoiem  in  ecclesis" — followed  bj  the 
statement  that  though  the  criminal  was  not 
hanged  he  was  beari^  fined.  Is  any  other  in- 
stance t3  be  found  of  the  use  of  the  word  as  an 
Eoglish  law  term  i  O. 

Edinburgh. 

HoxKE  Abbxt  Reoistbr. — This  valuable  ori- 
ginal register  has  been  the  object  of  a  long  and 
fruitless  search  by  a  friend  of  the  querist.  This 
register  is  quoted  m  Blomefield's  Jforfoik,  in  Dug- 
dale,  in  Dean  Tanner's  hooka,  in  Tnjlor's  Inda 
Mmiadiou,  and  was  traced  to  a  Mr.  Craven  Ord, 
at  whose  sale  in  Russell  Square,  London,  in 
the  vear  1829,  it  was  sold  for  2&i.  to  a  dealer  in 
London,  who  afterwards  retired  from  business  to 
Canterburv,  It  is  not  i^  the  British  Mu»eum. 
If  sny  reader  of  "N.  &  Q."  happens  to  know  of  its 
whereabouts,  it  would  doubtless  be  of  great  ser- 
vice to  many  readers  of  "  N,  &  Q."  if  a  note  of  it 
was  given,  S.  £.  L. 

[TbJi  Register  was  lot  6G9,  and  told  la  Mr.  Paj^a  for 
SI/.,  the  greater  pait  of  wboM  MSS.  irere  parctiued  hj 
Sir  Tbomu  PhiUippa,  Bart,  of  Middle  Hill,] 

Elizabeth  KuxiaREw,  VisooiniiEEa  Shak- 
KOIT. — Whose  daughter  was  Elizabeth  Killigrew, 
wife  of  Fmneia  Boyle,  first  Viscount  Shannon?  I 
find  her  described  variously  as,  daughter  of  Sir 
Thomas  Killigrew ;  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  and 
sister  of  Sir  William  Killigrew;  and  daughter  of 
Sir  William  Killigrew,  Who  was  her  mother  P 
Lady  Shannon  hadadaughterby  Kins  Charles  II., 
and  I  should  be  glad  to  know  if  tnis  daughter 
(Charlotte  Maria  Jemima,  afterwards  Countess  of 
Yarmouth)  was  bom  bobra  the  marriage  (the 
date  of  which  I  do  not  know)  of  Eliiabeth  Killi- 
grew to  Francis  Boyle :  and  if  she  bore  the  arms 
of  Boyle,  or  those  of  King  Charles  vrith  some 
abatement.  Ermwo  M.  Boixb. 

[Francis  Boyle,  bom  June  !S,  1G23,  was  Ibe  klxlh  son 
or  Bicbard  Bm^ie,  the  fint  Earl  of  Cork.  Francis,  created 
Visconnt  of  SbannoD,  marciul  ElEzubctfa.  dauehlcr  of 
Sir  Bobert  Killigrew  and  sL-ur  of  Sir  William  KUU- 
crew,  bv  whom  he  hud  iaeue  two  eoss  and  one  dnaphter. 
Jacob's  EngliA  Peerage,  il  iV2;  Addil.  Mf  '"  - 
Masenm),  24,493,  p,  105;  Bod  WhFln'i  Giddi  i 
furd-apon-Aeon,  ed.  1825,    i 

of  ElCubetb  Killigrew's  I'wnm  with  Charlei  ii.  anuer 
her  maiden  name.  The  lime  of  Ibo  birth  of  Cbarlotte 
Jemima  Henrietta  Boi-ie,  aliat  FiIetov,  ie  not  recorded. 
She  died  in  London,  'Jn)y28,  1684,  ind  was  baried  in 
Westminster  Abbey.  She  was  twice  married :  flrst,  lo 
Jalne^  anlr  son  of  Tbomas,  lecond  son  of  TbeopUlus 
Howard,  Earl  of  Saflulk;  and,  Eecondir,  to  William 
Fasten,  son  and  heir  of  Sobert,  EbtI  of  Yarmonth.    No 


coat  is  given  to  hei  m  Connteis  of  Ysnnonlh,  who  before 
this  marriage  was  sometimes  called  Boyle  and  sometfrnes 
Fituoy.] 

Sib  Pstee  Lelt's  Lite  akd  WoBsa.— Where 
can  I  refer  to  a  list  of  the  portttits  painted  by  Sir 
Peter  Leiy  P  and  has  a  Life  of  Lely  ever  been 
published  P  if  eo,  by  whom  F  T.  M, 

[Consult  Walpols's  Aneciila  of  Pimtiug,  edit.  1819  ; 
Bfagrvphia  Britioaiiea,  edit.  174T-6G  ;  and  Brvan's  Die- 

lionary  of  Pistiltri  and  Engrrmri.  Lely'scolieol ion  sold 
for  !6,b00J.;  and  bendes  be  left  900/.  ynAj  estate  at  his 
dsath.    Addit,  MS,  28,070,  p.  60',  British  Huseom.] 

Michael  AiieELo'a  "Last  Judokext," — In 
Michael  Angelo's  &eaco  of  the  "  Last  Judgment " 
there  is,  among  the  group  of  saints  who  have 
suffered  martyrdom,  a  figure  which  I  talte  to 
represent  St.  Blaise,  as  he  bears  in  his  hands  as 
the  instruments  i^  his  death  two  carding  combs, 
the  in«gnia  of  that  patron  of  flax  carders. 

In  the  painUng  as  it  now  exists,  the  saint  turns 
his  head,  which  is  seen  in  profile,  completely 
round,  and  g«zes  over  his  right  shoulder  at  the 
Saviour,  who  occupies  the  centre  of  the  compon- 
tion.  In  a  spirited  copy  of  the  picture  in  the 
chamber  of  toe  cameos,  in  the  Uffid  gallery  at 
Florence,  and  also  in  ifie  engravings  of  Giorgio 
Mantuano  and  others,  the  same  saint  appears ;  but 
though  his  hands  and  aims  are  in  the  identical 

C'tioD,  his  face,  now  three-quarters  to  the  lef^ 
A  down  between  them,  and  apparetiUy  either 
converses  with  Su  Katberine,  who  is  a  little 
below  him,  or  directs  the  attention  of  the  atmg- 
gliug  sinners  below  to  his  faithful  death. 

As  these  latter  bear  internal  evidence  that  thej 
were  not  copied  one  from  the  other,  and  as  they 
are  all  taken  from  the  fresco  in  its  earlier  state, 
that  is,  before  Daniel  de  Volterra  was  ordered  by 
Paul  IV.  to  add  drapery  to  the  figures,  it  may  be 
presumed  that  this  figure  was  then  altered  to 
what  it  now  is. 

I  should  be  interested  in  bearing  if  any  one  can 
give  me  particulars  as  to  the  reason  why  this 
alteration  was  made.         H.  A.  Keknedt,  Juk. 

Eldon  Bouie,  Beading, 

MoBQCrtOES  IK  Ekolard,  dr.  1760.— In  Letien 
afiJie  Firtt  Earl  of  Malmeibiinj,  his  Famibj,  nnd 
Priendi,  1745  to  1820,  London,  1870  (ei>.  17C0), 
we  read  in  a  letter  of  Mrs.  Harris's,  describing  a 
visit  to  the  Sean  of  Sarum's  parsonage  in  Cam- 
bridgeshire in  June :  — 

■■  The  Dean's  parsonage  ts  surrounded  with  fens,  and 
you  are  teased  tnyond  expreasioQ  by  the  gnats.  When 
we  got  here,  the  Dean'g  bailer  cams  to  your  father  with 
■  pair  of  leather  itockiogg  to  draw  on  so  sa  to  protect  bis 
legs,  which  in  hot  weather  to  drtulfuL  Besides  \\A>,  tba 
bMs  liave  a  machine  coveii^  with  a  Bilk  net,  which  lets 
down  after  yon  are  jn  bed  and  corera  you  aH  over.  With- 
oat  this,  there  oould  be  no  sleeping :  for,  notwithstanding 
these  precflotions,  we  were  most  miserably  stung." 


Could  these  have  been  ordinary  gnats? 

JoHH  Pia«ii)\rtnr. 


"8l^' 


*»s.vn.  U.U 


I.JS.710 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


259 


Philosophical  Nakedness.— In  Hogg's  Life 
of  Shelley  (ii.  202)  it  ia  «aid  that  "  much  has  been 
said  and  written,  bj  wise  men  and  hj  foolish 
ones,  on  tba  Bubject  of  going  naked."  1%  refer- 
enco  made  here  lo  tny  apodal  contrOTera;  f  What 
has  'been  written  at  ill  on  this  subject  p 

Bj  the  waj,  has  anj  one  else  been  known  to 

follow  the  "  philosophical  nakedness  "  of  Shelle  j's 

friends,  of  whom  Hogg  gives  ao  amueiag  a  stoi?  P 

An  ARAB, 

St.  Adsvstinx. — Br  several  writers,  as  Bishop 
Saunderson,  Biahop  Ltuce,  and  Archbishop  Trench, 
this  father  is  stated  to  have  spoken  of  the  noble 
deeds  of  the  heathen  as  tplendtda  peccata.  Is  this 
expression  to  be  foand  in  St.  Augustine,  or  how 
did  it  arise  F  The  common-places  from  St.  Au- 
gustine which  illustrate  the  matter  in  other  terms 
are  known.  It  is  the  source  of  these  words 
which  it  is  desired  to  aaoertsiii.  No  assistance  is 
to  be  gained  from  the  authors  above  mentioned, 
in  whose  works  the  words  occur. 

E.  MAJtSHALL. 

Sandford. 

ScENA  ;  ScENfi.  —  To  vary  your  matter  and 
meet  various  tastes,  may  I  auc  by  what  annlogr 
it  is  that  if  the  Latin  sctna  anmes  from  the  Greelc 
o-N^Hi,  the  final  q  becomes  a,  while  the  first  one 
remains  e?  But  if,  as  I  suspect,  the  termination 
a  points  to  an  earlier  Etage  ot  derivation  thni^the 
Greek  ri,  how  is  it  that  the  Latin  a  beeomes  ti 
in  the  Greek,  and  that  the  Latin  e  remnius  i)  in 
the  first  Billable  ?  I  fancy  some  clue  to  this 
seeming  discrepancy  may  be  found  in  the  com- 
mon ongin  of  both  words.  Mtofs. 

Sib  William  Stanhope,  1640-1080.— Some 
tn-enty  years  ego  1  purchased  at  Oxford,  mainly 
for  the  sake  of  its  handsome  carved  frame,  a  fine 
old  portrait  which  was  said  to  bsve  been  turned 
out  of  Blenheim.  On  sending  it  to  be  cleaned 
and  lined,  the  nnmes  of  Sir  WiQiam  Stanhope  and 
Sir  Peter  T^ely,  inscribed  on  the  back  of  the  can- 
vas, emerged  from  beneath  the  old  stretcher. 
Can  any  one  acquainted  with  the  Stanhope  pedi- 
gree enable  me  lo  idenlify  the  original  of  my 
partrutP  Sir  Peter  Lelj*  died  in  1680,  rclat. 
eixty-three.  The  companion  portrait,  in  a  frame 
to  match,  was  that  of  Anne,  daughter  of  John 
(Wilmot)  Earl  of  Rochester,  married  to  Sir 
Francis  Qrevllle.  This  Earl  of  Rochester  suc- 
ceeded to  the  title  in  1660,  and  died  in  1080— 
the  same  year  as  SIt  Peter  Lely,  whose  name  was 
also  inscribed  on  her  portrait. 

T.  Uebbebt  Noras,  Jun. 

Stedjian  Fauilt.— John  Stedman,  the  first  of 
thia  family  who  owned  Strata  Florida  Abbey  in 
Cardiganshire,  i%  said  to  have, come  from  Chepsey, 
near  Ohartley,  in  Stfiffordahire,  then  the  property 
of  Devereiu,  Earl  of  Essex. 


In  the  Gentleman'*  Magaana  of  November,  1840 
(p.  492),  mention  ia  made  of  John  Stedman  as 

follows ;  — 

"  SUtcDKDt  of  Accounts  on  the  deatb  of  Waltw  Earl  of 
Essex.    (From  the  otisiaai,  peaes  E.  P.  8.) 

".Walter  Dereieux,  £srl  af.EiiKX,,  died  at  Ont^in 
Sept,  22.  15T6 :  his  body  was  brouebt  for  int«raunt  to 
Cannirtben,  and  some  of  the  items  of  the  eoiuing  ae- 
oauDt  rrUte  to  the  upea)»  then  iacurred  i  —  ' 

" '  Due  to  John  Stedmon,  bis  L'n  [Lordship's]  officer 
a*  moDey  lent  to  the  Eiil  at  his  golDge  iota  Ireland  by 
bill  to  be  repaid  at  Mic'elms  lul,  c"*. 

■■■AceampU  of  John  Stediaia,  sorplntage  of  John 
St«dman'*scc'aponblspsymentbywarniut,xij"'ix'Ti'.'" 

Can  any  reader  of  "N.  &  Q."  kindly  inform  me 
where  the  original  document  containing  these 
accounts  is  deposited,  and  who  was  the  writer 
under  the  initials  "  E,  P,  S."  P 

One  branch  of  the  Stedman  family  possessed 
lands  at  Aston,  in  the  county  of  Shropshire,  in 
1230,  which  still  remain  the  property  of  their 
descendants  in  the  maternal  line. 

HuBBHT  Skits. 

St.  Leonird's,  Bridgenorf  h. 

Watches  of  Disiinocibhed  Mek.— In  1835 
there  was  in  possession  of  Alderman  Charles 
Carolin,  of  the  city  of  Dublin,  a  very  curious  old 
silver  watch  and  brass  chidn.  On  the  dial  of  the 
wateh  was  engraved  "lieut.-Oen.  Cromwell  to 
Lieut>Gen.  Fwrfax."  The  kej  was  of  curious 
workmanship,  and  on  it  the  ci_pher  in  relief  of 
"  0,  C."  Can  any  of  your  Dublin  correspondents 
give  any  information  as  to  what  became  of  this 
watch  after  Alderman  Carotin's  death  {circa 
1845) P  H.  H. 

"The  World  turned  upsibe  down,"  ob  the 
Habbs  takirq  Vengeance  om  Mankind. — In 
the  last  number  of  The  Herald  and  Genealogut  a 
remarkable  caricature— to  apply  that  term  to  oil- 
paintings — is  noticed,  of  which  the  subject  is 
above  Btated.  Hares  are  represented  hunting, 
coutsing,  and  slaughtering  the  human  race;  and 
afterwards  hanging,  drawing,  quartering,  roasting. 
and  jogging,  and  feosting  upon  their  disjointed 
members.  It  is  stated  that  such  a  picture  is  pre- 
served at  New  House  near  Downton,  Wilts,  one 
of  the  old  mansions  ot  the  Eyres ;  and  that  another 
wna  formerlv  at  the  Duke  of  Buckingham's  at 
Avinglon,  near  Winchester,  and  sold  there  by 
auction.  I  should  be  glad  to  know  what  became 
of  this  picture. 

There  was  also,  it  is  said,  a  similar  picture  at 
Hampton  Court  in  UerefordBhire,  the  seat  of  the 
Coningsbyesj  but  the  triumphant  animals  were 
there  comes,  or  rabbits,  which  that  familv  bore 
in  their  arms.  Does  this  picture  remain  at  Hamp- 
ton Court  durinir  Uie  Arkwright  dominion  P 

"*  J.  G.  N. 

"CapbioiootWbat." — Will  some  correspondent 
be  kind  enough  to  reply  to  the  following  query 


NOTES  AXD  QUERIES.  [4«8.vu.i 


B,TL 


about  &  TCimet  which  liu  lingered  in  a  memorj 
for  more  than  fiftj  yean  ?  The  only  lines  remem- 
bered are  the  following :  — 


Tla  well,  b<mm-eT,  to  h*TC  conquered  tbe  first  fimr. 

I  vant  to  know  t^o  "  Capricious  Wnj "  is, 
who  ia  the  authoi  of  the  sonnet,  utd  where  it 
may  be  found.  W.  D.  B. 


JOHN  KNOX'S  HOUSE  AT  EDINBUEGH. 

(4*  S.  vi  227.) 

As  no  Edinburgh  conespondent  has  replied  to 

Mk.  Q.  J.  Db  Wiij)x's  remuks  on  the  inaccorate 

Terdon  of  the  inscription  on  John  Knox's  honse^ 
and  the  perpetoationof  "anabmird  popular  error 
with  reierence  to  a  fiipire  near  the  window  .... 
described  as  a  rude  emgy  of  the  Roformar  preach- 
ii^,"  permit  me  to  state  a  fact  or  two,  perhapa 
worth  putting  on  record  in  joui  columns. 

Until  I860,  when  Knoxs  house  was  tescusd 
from  destruction,  after  the  order  for  its  demolition 
had  been  iasued  by  the  Daan  of  Guild— as  " 
Scottish  ciric  ndile  is  coUed — tbe  inscription 
concealed  by  a  ugn-board,  and  known  oiJy  by 
local  tradition.  The  inaccuracies  of  tbe  popular 
Tciuon  have  thus  found  their  way  into  the  guide- 
book quoted  by  Me.  De  Wildb.  If  the  ecidp- 
tnred  Ugure  on  the  angle  of  the  building  is  now 
as  it  ori^nally  wa^  there  can  be  no  queotion  as 
to  its  meaning  and  relation  to  the  inscription. 
Uoees  kneels  and  receives  from  Qod — as  rejH«- 
(rated  by  tbe  blaxiugdioc  inscribed  "eEOZ.  detb. 
OOD, — Uie  Law,  as  pyen  from  Sinai;"  while 
under  the  cornice  running  round  tbe  building  is  ' 
inscribed  the  Eummuy  of  the  Ton  Conunuid- 

"  LVP£  .  GOD  .  ABTTC  ,  AL  .  AHD  .  Tl  .  ICTCHTnOTB  . 

But  the  figure,  as  older  Edinburgh  ciUzena  re- 
member it,  up  to  the  above-named  date,  was 
enclosed  in  a  pulpit  and  canopy,  within  which 
appeared  only  the  upper  part  of  the  present  figure 
with  uplifted  hand,  as  in  the  attitude  of  preach- 
ing ;  and  tbe  whole  was  painted  so  as  lo  seem  to 
be  carved  out  of  tbe  same  block.  It  is  accordingly 
described  in  Dr.  Robert  Cbambere'  Minor  Anb- 
quilittflSSS,  as  "an  effigy  of Knoxio  the  attitude 
of  preacIuDg,"  and  it  was  universally  regarded  as 

The  restoration  of  tbe  old  bouse  to  its  present 
condition  was  carried  on  under  tii»  supenntend- 
enee  of  the  late  Master  Mason  for  Seotland,  Mr. 
James  Smith,  F.S.A.  Scot,  in  conjunction  with 


myself,  then  Secretary  of  the  Society  of  Antiqaa- 
riee;  bis  services,  1  may  add,  beii^  rendered 
giatuiloiudy.  Tbe  removal  of  varioos  wooden 
additions  restored  to  light  tbe  inscription,  end  the 
ilptured  arms  and  mitiak  described  by  toot 
Teepondeot  On  removing  the  pulpit,  which 
■If  o  proved  to  be  a  modem  wooden  aidditian,  it 
.  __  found  that  tiie  lower  part  of  the  Rgure  had 
been  chiselled  away  to  admit  of  this  spurious 
supplement.  Its  resloration  was  entrusted  to  me. 
A  block  of  stone  was  inserted  in  the  mutilated 

re,  and  on  this  the  late  Mr.  Huid^ode  lUtchie, 
well-known  sculptor,  a  ptn^  of  Thorwaldsen, 
carved  the  lower  put  of  the  finre  from  a  sketch 
I  supplied.  The  spsee,  as  will  be  seen,  was  only 
sufficient  for  a  VnMUng  figue,  if  tbe  lower  limb* 
were  to  be  shown;  ana  though  necessarily  a  con- 
jectural natoration,  I  believe  it  to  be  oorrecL 
.  The  house  is  believed  to  have  been  occupied 
by  Geor^  Dune,  abbot  of  Dunfermline,  before 
Knox's  time;  but  no  anment  titles  exiat,  nor  ia 
there  any  description  in  later  deeds  to  fumisb  a 
clue  to  the  original  occupant.  The  arms  aie  not 
those  of  the  abbot  The  double  initials  indeed 
rather  T«int  to  some  wealthy  citizen,  who  has 
placed  His  infe's  alongside  of  his  own.  The  arms 
are  not  to  be  found  in  Nesbit,  but  ought  to  admit 
of  interpretation  by  some  of  your  heraldic  cor- 
respondents. "A  chevron  between  three  trees, 
thAe  crowns,"  is  Ms.  De  Wilde'b  description; 
but  according  to  a  sketch  made  by  me  when  the 
arms  were  first  exposed  to  view,  tbe  BO-called 
traa  are  flowers — quatrefoile  or  rosea;  and  tbe 
three  crowns  are  on  the  chevron.    The  initials  are 

lU  .  KA. 

The  perpetnalion  in  tbe  local  guide-book  of  tbe 
old  inaccurate  version  of  the  inecription,  twenty 
years  after  its  correction  by  the  disclosure  of  the 
original,  is  no  novelty  in  antiq^uarian  experience. 
A  remarkable  instance  came  under  my  ohaerva- 
tiou  when  writing  tbe  life  of  Chatterton.  His 
satirical  will,  first  printed  by  Cottle  in  1803,  with 
manv  inaccuracieB,  ctmtuns  tbe  inscription  dic- 
tated by  him  for  a  monument  to  himself;  and 
idtbough  the  original  MS.  is  preeerred  in  the 
Ldhrary  of  the  Fhilosophical  InstitutiDn  at  Bristol, 
and  accesuble  to  all,  the  incorrect  version  of  tbe 
inscription,  according  to  Cottle's  misprint,  was  cut 
on  tbe  poet's  monument  erected  in  1840  in  Red- 
clifie  churchyard.  As  that  inscription  disappeared 
on  the  removal  of  the  montmient  in  conBec|oenee 
of  the  restoration  of  Redcliffe  church,  if  it  has 
not  yet  been  recut,  a  reference  to  the  original  MS. 
is  aaviwhle.  Dahibl  Wilsom. 

Dnlvoaity  College,  Toronto. 


a  by  Google 


**a.Tii.»UKa26,7J.]         NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


261 


PARODIES. 

(4"'  S.  Ti.  4-0;  vii.  15, 105, 177.) 
In  1610  waa  published,  witboDt  author's  t 
"  Rimlet  TrKveatie  :  ia  Tbiea  Acti.    With  . 
tioiu  by  Dr.  Johneoa  ind-Gao.  8t 
CwDineattUon."    LondoD,  12moL 

Tbe  miter  was  Jobn  Poole  of  Paul  Piy  cele- 
brity. It  WW  Terj  populnr,  and  mn  through  six 
editioDs  in  about  m  maoj  jenrs.  A  private  and 
beautifal  rein^t  -was  produced  in  Ne«  York  m 
late  Its  18%!.  Other  parodies  of  Samlet  have 
appeared,  viz. ;  Samlet;  a  Nmo BurUtgue,  Xiondon, 
13^,  12mo:  and  Banikt  Travedie,  m  Two  Acts, 
1849,  13mo.'  Mr.  Hau,  -will  find,  trom  Alliboue'a 
Diet.  Atithor*  (vol.  ii.],  that  moat  of  Shakespeare's 
pl^  have  berai  burlesqued. 

There  ia  ma  article  on  "  Parody  "  in  the  Wett- 
mmOtr  Ashw  for  July,  1854.  C.  W.  S. 

"Qilea  Jollup  the  Grave,  and  Brown  Satly 
'  Green,"  is  a  parody  on  the  universally  known 
"  Alonio  the  Brave,  and  the  Fait  Iia<»ene."*  The 
author  of  l»th  original  and  parody,  M.  Q.  Lewis, 
in  the  introduction  to  "  Giles  Jollup,"  &c.  (lofei 
of  Wonder,  written  and  collected,  by  M.  O.  Lewis, 
second  edition,  1601,  p.  27)  thus  remarks :  — 

■■ I  mojrt  uknowlcdge,  homver,  tbal  the  lls«s 

prinled  in  itiUra,  uid  the  idea  of  miking  an  ipothecary 
of  tlie  knight,  and  ■  brawer  of  the  baton,  are  token  fironi 
a  parody  which  appeared  in  one  ot  the  newBpapera  under 
the  title  oF'Pil-Gailic  the  Brave,  and  Brown  Celestlne.'" 

Who  is  the  author  of  the  last-named  parody, 
and  in  what  "newspaper"  did  it  appear? 

At  p.  1D5  of  the  aazne  volume  there  is  a  ballad 
entitl^  "The  Cinder  King,"  with  a  few  intro- 
ductory observations  by  M..  O.  Lewis:  — 

"  Tbe  Ibnoicing  wu  unt  to  me  anonymooelj'.  The 
reader  will  of  conraa  obeerva  that  It  ia  a  burlesque  imita- 
tion of  the  hatlida  of  ■  The  Erl  King '  aad  ■  Tbe  Cload 

The  latter  ballads,  as  many  of  your  readers 
are  aware,  may  be  found  in  the  above-mentioned 

"Hamlet's  Soliloquy  Imitated,"  by  Jago,  b 
nther  en  ingenious  satire  aflbcdng  those  persons 
whose  fingprs  are  continually  itching  to  scribble ; 
and  with  whom,  to  only  have  their  works  on  the 
same  sheif  with  Qunrles.  Ac,  is  "a consummation 
devoutly  to  be  wished.  See  Etegant  ExtracU, 
second  edition,  London,  1700,  book  iv.  appendix. 


J.  Perbt. 


Dr.  Maginn  concluded  "  Christabel "  in  Slaek- 
Kood.  Can  it  be  bad  in  n  separate  form  ?  I  think 
the  parody  quoted  by  A.  JT  DcflEn  was  called 
CkruiiAeit,  and  was  an  8va,  with  "  lota  of  (at," 
i,  e.  wide  margins  to  the  pages.    It  was  very 


Thia  waa  Snt  pablnhcd  in  the  third  vdnoie  of 


t  Bnt  put 


funny — Hartley  Coleridge  evidently  was  cogni- 
sant of  the  author.  S.  T.  Coleridge  used  to  say  that 
the  burlesque  version  of — 

"  Chriatabel  saw  the  lady's  otb,"— 
was  admirable.  Another  word  was  substituted 
for  "eye,"  and  the  tequaU  line  was  the  same  as 
in  the  originaL  The  author  of  Christabea  was 
never  divulged ;  but  it  is  supposed  that  it  was  a 
coin  from  the  same  mint  as  the  parody  on  Peter 
Sell,  which  came  out  almost  Bimultftneously  with 
tbe  real  "Simon  Pure."  There  iji  a  German 
parody  on  Chrittabel,  bat  Z  know  nothing  about 
Its  merits.  Stephem  Jacbbok. 

1  possess  a  copy  of  the  parody  inquired  for  by 
Mb.  Hall.    It  is  entitled — 

"  Hamlet  Travestie :  in  Thiee  Acts.  With  Barlew)na 
Anaotations,  after  the  Manner  of  Dr.  Johnaon  and  Geo. 

Sleevens,  £«).,  and  the  varions  CommeDtatois.  By  George 
Poole,  Eeq. 

'  QasDtnm  mntaliu  ab  illo.'— Fiiy. 
'  Commentaton  each  dark  pasuge  shun, 
And  hold  their  faithing  candle  to  the  >un.* 

"  Third  Edition.  London  :  Printed  for  J.  U.  Bicbard- 
Eon,  Xo.  3,  CorahUI,  opposite  the  Royal  Exohangg.  181L" 

It  contains  the  well-known  lines :  — 
"  Tbrea  children  aliding  on  the  ice. 
All  an  a  nuumer'a  day,*'  &c.  &c 

K.  Mc.  C. 
Liveipoul.  _^_^^_^^__ 

ASTIQUITT  OF  LADIES'  CHIGNONS. 

(4*  8.  yii.  93.) 

The  quotation  from  Artamidorus  given  by  Mb. 

Mac  Oabb,  as  cited  by  Dr.  Pfaffe,  is  quite  correct 

In  the  original  *  the  passage  is :  — 

Tpixiu  txtir  iirfJAai  ml  MaXkt  Kol  ir'  abraa  iyi\- 

Acir^ai  Bryoeir  /lixurra  yiniaiiil'  Mp  ^ip  (ifup^oi 
iariy,    Srt   vol   oAAiTfifaii  9fi(ty  al  7vt«uc(i   x^wrrai, 

K.T.X. 

From  the  very  aparing  mentimi  of  the  addition 
by  Greek  and  Roman  ladies  to  their  head-dreea  of 
borrowed  locks,  it  would  aeem  that  the  prac- 
tice was  but  little  known  until  the  days  of  general 
corruption  and  extravagance  under  the  Cmsars, 
That  a  great  variety  of  hair-dreeiing  fashions  ex- 
isted before  this  tirne  there  is  abundant  evidence, 
bnt  these  seem  to  have  been  all  based  on  the  prin- 
ciple of  making  the  very  best  of  the  covering  which 
nature  had  ^ven  to  tbe  ladies'  heads,  whether  by 
dyeing,  cnrhng,  plaiting,  or  rolling,  or  hy  the  ad- 
dition of  various  omsmentB,  nets,  bands,  nlleta,  and 
tiaras.  Ladies'  hair  was  artiGciallv  crh>i  ("  fris^ 
de  mille  nteuds,  cr£p^  et  tortilla  "  t)  m  the  time 
of  the  empire,  and  even  earlier,  aiM  by  that 


*  Artemidoma,  OunrDcrifiat,  L  19,  ed.  1,G0S, 

t  RiaiuS,  Lt  Hcond  Lhn  da  Amovr*,^^^^^ 


iVOTES  AND  QUERIES.         [4"- s.  vii.  maecu  w.  ti. 


meaiu,  and  b;  the  lue  of  the  tubitructurei  so  well 
understood  and  so  extenaiTelf  used  nt  the  praeent 


passft^s  in  which  the  laCter  practice  is  mentiooed 
nre  giren  in  Smith's  Dictionary  (art.  "  Comffi  "), 
and  the  only  alluaona  which  I  can  find  are  in  Ma- 


Figere  etipposllii  caput  emulAifl  capillia:" 
and  in  Clement  of  Alexandria.!  In  tliis  pveoKe, 
after  ridiculing  the  devices  of  forming  artificial 
chains  and  plaits  of  hair,  which  were  of  so  curious 
and  complicated  a  nature  that  a  lady  dared  not  to 
touch  her  back  hair  lest  the  biur-pins  should  fall 
out  aud  the  whole  alfair  coma  to  grief,  nor  go  to 
sleep  lest  the  ehould  spoil  the  general  effect  of 
her  coiffaic,  he  declares  that  the  addition  of  the 
hair  of  othei'S  is  entirelr  to  be  condemned,  and 
that  it  \s  the  htight  ai  impiet;  to  attach  false 
locks  to  the  head,  thus  clothing  the  skull  tvith 
dead  tre;seB. 

"For  upon  wbom  Anns  the  priest  then  lay  !«md»? 
whom  docJholjlej*?  Not  the  won 
forsooth,  Lot  Ihc  hair  vf  lanie  one 
hair,  lome  unknown  person.  If  I 
the  woman,  and  Chrbt  the  head  of  the  luau,  is  it  not  moM 
impioue  that  Ibe  nonwD  shonlil  fill  Into  tliis  double  fia  P 
In  that  they  deceire  the  men  by  the  exceraive  uings  of 
hair,  and,  as  Tir  aa  in  them  liaa.'eiitit  shame  on  their  Lord, 
nhilsl  they  adopt  false  and  meretricious  adomnienth  and 
moke  that  head  accursed  which  is  ori^inaUy  beautiful.'' 


e  the  head  of 


UacCiije  refei's  apparently  to  that 
dressiDg  the  hair  in  which  a  mass  of  little  curls 
rose  to  a  great  height  from  the  forehead,  but  were 
not  carried  back  farther  than  to  the  centre  of  the 
head,  where  they  were  suddenly  terminated  hj  a 
_fitlel  or  mittii,  the  hdr  at  the  back  of  the  head 
being  drawn  back  tightly  and  confined  in  a  knot. 
The  efiect  of  this  arrangement  would  be  exactly 
that  described  by  Juvecal :  the  body,  as  seen 
from  behind,  would  seem  to  be  of  her  real  height, 
as  the  anterior  structure  would  hardly  be  visible, 
wtiiLit  bom  the  front  she  would  have  a  most  im- 
posing and  stately  appearance.  The  celebrated 
■^ent  of  Evodus,  representing  Juli^  the  daughter 
of  Titus,  exactly  illustrates  this  method  of  dressing 
the  hoir.l  John  Eliot  IIodokht. 

West  Derby. 


THE  BOOKWORM. 
(4'"  8.  tL  627 ;  tH.  65, 163.) 

The  ravages  of  the  bookworm  have  attracted 
the  attention  of  bibliographerB  in  ail  ages.  Stray 
notices  of  the  insect  may  be  found  in  many  works, 
but  as  yet  I  hare'  not  come  across  anything  satis- . 
factory;  and  as  the  subject  merits  the  Attention  of 
all  who  either  possess  or  have  charge  of  lai^  col- 
lections of  books,  I  propose  to  lay  before  the  readers 
of  "  N.  Sc  Q."  my  own  gleanings  respecting  these 
little  pests. 

The  mistake  that  most  obseirers  have  fallen 
into  is  in  supposing  that  there  is  only  one  insect, 
the  bookworm  proper,  which  attacks  l>ookB.  Thus 
Uibdin,  in  the  Bibiiographical  Seeameron,  gives  a 
long  and  amusing-enough  description,  but  which ' 
only  suffices  to  prove  that  neither  be  nor  his  in- 
formants at  the  great  public  libraries  to  which  ha 
applied  were  aware  that  there  was  more  than  one 

Again,  some  of  your  correspondents  in  their 
recent  replies  evidently  refer  to  tiie  ravages  of  dif- 
ferent pests;  foroneofthem  talks  of  the  little  ivorm 
going  only  so  far  into  a  volume  and  then  stopping 
and  excavating  a  circular  cavity.  Kow  the  worni 
proper  never  does  this;  he  goes  on  steadily  in  n 
straight  line,  his  thirst  for  literature  unabated  tilt 
be  has  gone  through  an  entireshelf,  if  undisturbed. 
We  read  (Ilannett,  BdtUopegia,  quoting  Peignot) 
of  twenty-seven  folio  volumes  perforated  in  a 
straight  line,  in  such  a  manner  that  on  passing  n 
cord  through  the  perfectly  round  hole  made  by 
the  insect,  the  whole  twenty-seven  could  be  raised 
at  once.  This  must  have  been  done  by  the  worm 
proper.  I  have  often  observed  umilar  perfora- 
tions running  through  several  consecutive  folios 
of  divinity  in  my  father's  library.  Ilannett  stntea 
distinctly  enough  that  there  are  several  insects. 
He  mentions  ^e  AgloKa  piiiffumalu,  which  de- 
posits its  larvte  in  books  in  the  autumn,  which, 
Sroduce  a  hind  of  mites;  but  says  that  ths  most' 
estructive  ace  the  little  wood-horing  beetles, 
AHohium  peHinax  and  A.  uti-iatiini.  Mrs.  Gatty, 
in  a  note  to  oce  of  her  most  charming  "  Parables," 

"  A  bookwonn  —  the  larvs  of  Rj/polhtntmui  tniilitat. 
Not  but  that  there  are  several  nthcr  larrs  of  the  race 
which  bore  minute  boles  tbrough  wood,  leatbcr,  and 
paper," 

Here  we  hare  at  least  four  insects  named,  so  we 
must  trust  to  some  of  your  readers  who  are  skilled 
in  entomology  to  give  us  more  detailed  accounts 
of  them,  and  of  the  readiest  way  of  distioguishing 
their  traces.  No  doubt  one  or  two  of  these  are 
much  more  frequently  met  with  than  the  others. 

The  following  moat  interesting  account  of  the 
naiticular  insect  pests  which  have  inflicted  serious 
dami^«e  on  the  rare  and  curious  books  in  Hereford  i 
Cathedral  baa  been  kindly  communicated  to  ma;l< 


**a.Tn.  MABOBa5,'7i.j         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


i63- 


by  tbe  Rev.  F,  T.  H&ver^al,  the  librarian,  ^bo 
has  also  fiivonred  me  with  some  specimeQa  of 
andeot  wood  and  paper  perforated  in  the  most 
eztraoriiiaftrT  wa^.  I  am  Bure  my  brother  readers 
of"  N.  &  Q."  will  be  as  much  interested  in  its 


imsal  as  I  have  been,  so  with  Mr.  HaTorgal't 

id  permisaion  I  laj  it  before  them : 


"  On  taking  etingt  of  onr  Citbednl  library  in  1853  I 
found  that  aomc  fittj  or  uxtj  volnmes  vere  being  da- 
slroyed  bv  some  very  enmetic  litlle  uuects.  In  order  ttt 
save  tbe  booka  eir  attacked,  I  determiaed,  after  [nraiog 
over  every  leaf  to  make  aura  there  were  none  of  tbe  in- 
sects left  in  them,  aud  after  brothiog  awsy  all  tbe  aconmn- 
lalion  offdoat  formed  within  tbem,  to  isolate  the  boolu 
complet^v.  After  immense  trouble,  by  giving  the  in- 
fected boc'ka  a  good  shaking  every  time  1  went  to  them, 
1  hope  I  have  at  last  eradicated  the  little  pests  from  our 
liVruy.  Some  volnmea,  indeed,  wliich  I  had  reboand, 
wero  afterwards  attacked  by  the  worms,  so  I  am  con- 
vinced that  nathiDg  bat  the  vigilanceof  the  librarian  will 
keep  them  down. 

"After  oboervations  extending  over  eighteen  years  I 
came  to  the  following  conclosiona : — 

"  1.  That  onr  boo^  were  bdn^  destroyed  tiy  at  least 
two  kinds  of  insects :  one  eioiilar  to,  if  not  identieal 
with,  the '  death-watch.'  These  insects  have  a  hard  outer 
skin,  and  are  cf  a  dark-brown  cotonr.  They  perforate 
wood,  no  matter  how  old  or  hard.  I  have  never  found 
these  insects — worms  they  are  not — ellve  and  at  work, 
but  1  hsve  found  the  remains  of  hundreds  of  dead  ones. 
Probably  the  wooden  cavers  of  the  old  books  harboured 
them  in  tiie  first  instance,  whence  they  proceeded  into 
the  interiors  of  the  books.  Sometimes  they  seem  to  have 
gone  right  throiigh  the  book,  but  generuly  they  inflict 
the  greatest  dnmage  on  the  thirty  or  forty  leaves  next 
the  wooden  covere. 

Thesecoud  kind  of  insects  seem  to  me  to  be  genuine 
bookwornis,  I  have  found  at  least  i  dozen  of  tbem  alive 
and  as  active  as  possible.  They  are  exactly  like  the 
little  warms  or  gmtu  tbund  occasionally  in  har.el-nuta. 
These  worms  hare  white  t»i)ies  with  brown  spots  ou  the 
beads.  They  generally  go  right  through  avolnme,  never 
stopping  to  make  a  cavity  In  one  place, 

"  i.  That  it  is  esay  to  tell  whether  the  worm  has  been 
recently  or  is  then  in  the  valnme.  Some  tiooks  had  been 
pierced  ages  ago :  from  these  tbe  dast  was  altogether 
gone.  Other  books,  which  had  been  pierced  perhaps 
within  forty  or  fifty  rears,  had  the  warm  holes  with  dust 
of  a  liKbt-brown  colour;  but  books  recently  perforated 
retained  the  dost  pure  white.  Thus  in  a  moment  I  could 
Cell  if  a  worm  was  actnallj  in  a  volume,  or  if  it  hod  been 
recently  at  work. 

"3.  That  t)ie  eradication  of  these  little  pests  from  a 
library  is  on  exceedingly  difficult  matter.  You  mav  rest 
quite  assured  that  the  l>ookworm,  next  to  fire  and  damp, 
is  the  erSBlest  pest  that  can  enter  a  library. 

"  4.  That  the  insects  do  not  relish  any  modem  paper  in 
the  same  way  as  they  do  the  far  better  paper  which  was 
made  from  H70  to  16B0.  Neither  do  they  penetrate 
modern  mill-boBrds,  but  they  take  special  ddight  in  the 
old  wooden  bookcovens  principally  in  those  which  have 
been  made  of  soft  or  sappy  wood.  The  worthy  men  of 
old  did  tbe  right  thing  when  they  bound  thMr  grand 
M38.  in  beart-of-oak  coven  with  veltum  over  all.  Bat 
in  the  fifteenth  century  bookUnders  and  their  employers 
became  less  careful  In  tbeir  choice  of  materials  for  covers, 
and  used  softer  wood,  which  became  a  sure  hannt  for 
destructive  insects.  In  veiy  rare  instances  have  tlie 
tasecta  attempted  to  penetrate  onr  MS.  voliunesofparch- 
ment  or  vellon,  no  real  injuty  having  hew  done  to  a 


single  volume  oat  of  240.  They  have  in  some  volumes 
tasted  a  few  of  the  vellum  leave^  but  they  never  seem  to 
have  relished  the  material  in  the  same  way  they  ^d  the 
ancient  paper." 

In  e  subsequent  communicatioD  Mr.  Havergai 
informs  me  that  he  thinks  be  has  found  both 
descriptioDS  of  insects  slive  and  at  work. 

As  regsids  tbe  Tsvages  of  the  bookworm  — 
uaini  the  word  as  descriptive  of  tbe  class  of  insects 
which  drill  holes  in  our  most  precious  volumes — 
the  above  lucid  account  leaves  nothing  to  be  de- 
sired. But  I  hope  it  maj  be  the  means  of  eluci- 
datiug  some  entomological  notes  from  those  of 
vour  readere  who  are  followers  of  Kirhy  and 
'Spence.  F.  M.  S. 

I  bad  often  wished  to  see  a  hookworm,  when, 
about  twelve  years  ago,  while  examining  in  tbe 
Bodleian  some  old  black-letter  fragments  at  that 
time  kept  loose  in  a  drawer,  I  disturbed  S  plump 
little  feHow  whose  ravages  were  but  too  apparent. 
He  was  about  the  size  of  a  full-grown  grub,  such 
as  we  find  in  nuts,  white  all  over,  with  very  gloeay 
head,  bard  to  the  touch,  and  slow  in  motion.  I 
made  a  small  paper  cage  for  him,  intending  to 
watch  carefully  bis  habits  and  development. 
Seeing  the  chief  libitirian  approach,  I  turned  cut 
my  little  captive  upon  the  table.  "  Have  you 
met  with  many  of  these  fellows,  Di.  Bandinel ; '' 
I  inquired.    "Oh,  yes,"  be  replied;  "  they  have 


blacK  besds  sometimes," — and  before  I  could  b 
a  word  my  biographical  intentions  were  fruatrftted, 
for  down  came  the  doctor's  thumb-niul,  snd  all 
6  was  an  elongated 

^''ILLIAU  BlISSS. 


1,  Abchorch  L 


-     BAPTISM  FOR  THE  DEAD. 
(i""  S.  i-ii.  107.) 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  heard  an  excellent  clergy- 
man notice  this  subject,  in  one  of  a  series  of  lec- 
tures oti  tbe  chapter  1  Ooiinthians  xv.  As  he 
brought  together  various  explanations  of  thi^ 
"  most  difficult  passage,"  sdme  of  the  readers  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  may  be  iuterested  to  read  his  remarks 
as  they  were  written  dovrn  afterwards  from 
meinoiy ;  — 

" ,  .  .  .  The  worda  of  this  verse  are  certainly  difficult. 
If  I  were  to  try  and  give  von  all  the  explanations  of 
virions  writers  on  it.  It  would  occupy  aU  day.  I  will 
only  name  a  ftw.  According  to  some,  (1)  by  'the  dead' 
is  intended  Hesaiali,  'tie  dtad  one';  an  instance  of 
the  plunl  being  used  for  the  singular.  (2)  Others  say 
baptiiiag  b  to  be  taken  as  an  aUnsion  to  the  custom  o( 
washing  and  purifying  the  dead,  ^t  they  might  be 
prepared  fbr  tbe  Resurrection,  ^1  Others,  that  it  sJg- 
nides  to  be  baptized  as  dead  into  Christ  by  baptism,  and 
regarded  as  dead  by  immersion,  (i)  Others  Itfti  it  to 
tbe  costoia  of  a  vicarious  biptiilng  at  some  one,  6a 
such  as  might  have  died  without  hopa.  This  view  waa 
held  by  Ambrose and  Is  referred  to  by  Orottns 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES.         ci«s.tii.uucb  95,71. 


w  B  enftom  of  IhU  tima.    Bot  kaM  *t«  obvioai  difficol- 

Um.  ....  It  ia  TITT  clew  from  Uitirty  that  it  «u  lul 
ft  costom  of  Apottolic  day).  Nor  can  ««  mppoM  Paul 
Tonld  caimteDaace  Bach  a  practice.  Tha  oaatom  mora 
pnAably  anwe  ftom  eiroDconi  interpretation  of  tliii 
Tcne.  And  hen  I  maj  obnrTa  that  manj  emnwcna 
nractieea  hara  ariaen  fhun  bbe  interpreUthHl 

S^ptnre. Tiro  other  ideaa 

plaumbla.    (S)  One  ~ 


a  af  Holj 


n  HatUieiTsx.  22,  SS,  legatdiiig  it  aimeaDing  Buffering, 
>dii8  OTemhclmed  with  trlala.  It  was  certaiiuf  >o  wiui 
iIm  ApoaUca,  baeansa  they  ^ke  et,  and  oxpcctcd,  that 
tbt  dewi  wonld  atlae.    It  Ib  dear  tbia  b«iW  did  ozpoaa 


BnB^nga  were  (or  n&oght.  Tliia  soitB  Bomewhat  with 
tha  following  verse.  But  then  it  la  not  the  liltrtJ  mean- 
ing at  ihe  woid.  (6)  OtberB  Bsy  the  meaning  is,  baptized 
with  the  hope  of  leaarrectinn  fiom  the  dead.  It  waa 
cartainl}'  a  leading  artida  of  the  Ucapal  .  .  .  and  if  anj 
daided  ula,  they  denied  an  eateDtial  truth,  aod  atrvdc  a 
blow  at  CbriBtUnity.  Tbua,  the  Apoatle  aa  it  were  aiks, 
'were  all  tba  hopes  of  beUererB  to  be  vain '  ?  (7)  Tyn- 
■  vonlon  sayi  'bapdicd  omt  the  dead.'  (8)  Dod- 
'  "    '  '  views  aaChrlBtiaoa, 


dridge  says : '  Such  ar 


u  thi  room  of  Iht  ihad,  who  aie  fin 
of  Christ,  bat  are  yet  sappoited  b; 
convertB,  who  immediately  offir  themselvea  to  fill  np 
their  {dacea,  as  ranks  of  Boldlera  that  advance  te  the 
combat  in  the  room  of  tlieir  companions,  who  have  JBst 
been  alain  In  their  aii^t?  If  the  doctrine  I  oppoae  be 
true,  Bnd  the  dead  are  mii  rai$ed  at  all,  tckv  art  they 
nevtrtieltH  llna  baptixed  in  tlit  room  of  the  dead,  as  eheer- 
A1II7  ready  at  tia  peril  of  their  lives  to  keep  up  tha 
cansa  of  JeBOS  In  the  world  ?  '  There  are  many  other 
vlewa  on  the  sulyect.  I  do  not  saj  any  are  exactly 
satisfactoi?  to  my  mind.  The  Idea  seema  literally  that 
cf  gnbetitntlon ;  the  same  word  is  u»ed  in  this  sense, 
Fhiknon  13,  md  2  Got.  v.  2.  And  this  seems  in  accord- 
anoa  with  Doddridgfl:  that  tha  baptism  was  vicarious 
ret  »(  for  the  iodiTidual  deceased,  bat  fbr  the  poaitjon 
he  had  occupied, !«  Oil  up  hi*  place  in  the  Church  and 
the  world." 

Is  not  the  paassge  illustrated  familifirl;  to  ub 
All  vheu,  on  the  death  of  one  who  has  bean  active 
in  religious  or  philantbiopic  efforts,  we  ofiisr  or 
seek  otheie  to  offer  to  take  >p  fA«  wonfc  of  the 
deceased  P  Ibis  fiilla  in  with  the  idea  of  Dr. 
Doddridge  as  above  quoted.  S.  H.  S. 

THEBAETIM01lSAini"0u»M0BTALITr''PiTXB^ 

BOKB  (4"-  S.  vl  187, 207, 290, 3M;  vii.  60,218.)— I 
regret  not  to  be  able  to  ^va  Dr.  Crattptikd  Tait 
Bajiase  the  information  he  wisbaa  to  have  with 
regard  to  the  Pettersona  of  Baltimoio.  When  I 
tru  there,  for  a  abort  space  of  time  onlv,  in  1838,  a 
French  gentleman,  now  dead  unfortnnatriy,  djd 
me  the  honour  of  presenting  me  to  the  venerable 
and  last  survivor  of  the  signers  of  the  Declaration 
of  American  Independence — Charles  Caroll  of 
Carollton,  aa  also  to  bis  maternal  graadsoa  Mi. 
Jeioms  B.  Pntteraon ;  but  our  acqaaiBtooee  waa 
trannent,  and  I  had  no  occasion  to  make  any 
iaijuiiT  respecting  their  connection  with  the  old 


comttr;.  Probably  the  Dowa^r  Duchess  of  Leeds 
could  and  would  graciomdy  eive  the  informatioo 
damred,  and  corroborate  Madame  Bonaparte's 
Dswer  tranamittftd  bv  Mr.  James  JL  Baylies. 

P.  A.L. 
[We  an  aura  all  onr  leadna  wiB  jna  us  in  a  hcor^ 

1  these  columns ;  and  in  oar  hope  that  tbe  new  troubles 
which  threaten  bis  adopted  hone  may  be  happily  averted. 

Macaulat'b  Ballads  (4*  S.  yii.  235.) — I  never 
before  heard  of  a  boUad  by  I^ord  Alncautay  on 
"The  Siege  of  Rochelle,"  nor  do  I  believe  one 
was  ever  written  hj  him.    The  line  quoted  ~~ 
"  And  thou,  Rochelle,  onr  own  Bodidle,"  Ac, 
a  line  in  the  first  verse  of  the  ballad  of  "  tvrj.'' 
H.  M,  Tkbyiltak. 
8,  GioBTeaior  Creacant,  8.W. 
Ldies  oh  the  HuiuK  Eab  (4""  S,  vii.  335.) — 
These  lines,  entitled  "  St  Fancrss'  Bell,"  which 
E.  L.  is  good  enough  to  call  dever — I  know  that 
their  author  thought  them  so  when  ha  was  mak- 
ing them — were  mine.     These  two  facte  are  all 
that  I  can  give  at  present.    I  cannot  remember 
where  the  veiaea  appeared,  and  I  have  no  copy  of 
them.    They  began  — 

■"A  sound  came  biMming  throndi  the  air : 
■  What  is  that  noin  ?■  said  I. 
My  blue-eyed  pet,  with  golden  balr. 
Hade  answer  preaenfly,"  Ac,  Ac. 
"Lethe  ia  a  bravo  river."    If,  however,  I  suc- 
ceed in  fifJung  out  of  bis  waters  anything  else  to 
the  purpjse,  I  will,  with  tbe  Editors  permission, 
present  it  to  the  "N.  &  Q."  mnseum. 

Shiuji  Bbooks. 

AacA  Office. 

Plom-Ploh  :  Ltj-Ltj  (4*  S.  vi.  233.)— Thasa 
nicknames,  like  ao  many  others,  originated  with 
the  petaoDS  themselves  when  they  nrst  began  ta 
nteak,  and  could  not  pronotmce  their  own  namea. 
Thiu  oar  celebrated  painter  Paul  de  la  Boche 
was  baptised  "  Hippolyte,"  but  n«ed  when  quite  a 
child  to  call  himaelt"  Pol,"  which  ho  kept  thtona:h 
life,  and  ultimately  used  to  sign  his  name  "  PauJ^" 
although  when  he  had  a  legal  ngn-mannal  to  give 
he  wrote  it  Hippolyta.  P.  A.  X. 

"l:s"AiiD.  "Eh"  (4"  a  vi.  396, 614;  vii.  60, 
193.)— .\  French  pkymcian,  a  firofessor  in  a 
govemmentscientjficeetabliahment  in  Paris,  lately 
staying  at  my  house,  tells  me  thai  i*  is  never  ueed 
except  with  a  plural  noon,  thos,  "  BachelioT  te 
Lettrea,"  "is  Arts,"  "Doctenr  en  Droit," "o*  "^ 
Droit."  Adt  one  using  the  latter  on  hia  card,  he 
says,  would  be  wrong.  F.  Lb  Nets  Fostek. 
Vannier  in  his  DieHotmaire  grammaticai  says : 

"  ilt,  article  pr^positii;  poor  en  in,  et  qoi  n'«et  d'naags 
qi^en  stvie  oDiversitain.  oa  de  palals.    ^lUrt-H-atU,  -, 
poor  mailre  en  lai  arts,  dans  lai  arts."  ^  1 V^ 


4>ks.ru.UABcai£,7i.]         NOTES  AKD  QUEBIES. 


Koel  et  CkapMd, 


I  thing.    "Et,  can- 


Langue  /random,  Mr  the  „  . 

baction  da  en  et  de  lea,  dans  les,  ntitde  seule- 
mentdana  Mutre-^s-arts.  Oa  iitDocteur enTiio- 
logie,  en  Droit."  P.  A.  L. 

F.S.  An  engraver's  watk  eanoot  and  (Kight  not, 
I  lAiuk,  always  be  taken  aa  "proofs  of  holy  writ." 
How  often  do  we  not  aee  heraldic  blunden  in 
coats  of  aims,  albeit  they  weie  eo^aved  con- 
fonnablT  to  the  "copj"  given  tbem  for  that 
ptupoae'faj  peaons  wlib  Jcn«w  no  better  P 

AaiiHciiL  FLT-naHiNe  (4"^  S.  viL  161.)— I 
fear  Pbusith  must  aatisfj  himself  with  the 
Book  of  St  Albans  as  the  tdUma  TMe  of  %- 
filing  lore  in  England.  From  thence  he  may 
flit,  ^thout  a  paus&  to  the  clasdo  laods — to 
Usrtial  and  ^han.  In  the  laUer's  "  Ilistorj  of 
Animals"  he  vrill  meet  with  the  fly  l^mmnt>, 
and  learn  how  it  -vfas  made  hj  the  MacodoBian 
englera  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Aatreue. 

There  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  iuveutioD  of 
the  artificial  fly  is  of  very  ancient  date.  Who 
ehall  say,  indeed,  how  soon  after  the  fall  of  man 
tliis  cunning  lure  of  the  flahermaD  first  fell  on  the 
rirera  outside  Eden  F  How  old  is  tbe  sport  F  is 
a  queetioa  c(mlinu&llj  asked.  Probatdj  as  old  sa 
hnnger.  T,  Wbbxwood. 

Braueb. 

CiPTAiir  JoHir  Masdit  (i*  S.  vi.  299.)— Cwit 
Mason  died  in  London  between  Nov.  26,  1^5, 
and  Dec.  33,  1636.  Hia  will  boars  the  former 
date.  In  it  is  a  leqaest  that  he  shall  be  "  boned 
IB  the  colle^ate  church  of  St.  Peter's  in  Weet- 
ininstOT."  He  states  that  ha  was  bom  in  Kinglyn, 
CO.  Norfolk,  and  mentions  his  "ooumn  Dr.  Bobert 


some  one  could  give  me  more  particolam  of  Capt, 
Abiaon  and  his  anceatom.  C.  W.  Tititle. 

BpM»i,U.S.A. 

]9AnsLiii«RTBB  Aim  Cols  Ibok  (4'^  3.  i.  147.) 
On  June  13,  1716,  Oeoeral  MacartoeT  was  tried 
for  being  concerned  in  tbe  murder  of  the  Duke  of 
Hamilton  in  a  dud,  and  was  acquitted  of  the 
manslangbter  "by  uie  formality  of  a  cold  iron 
naed  immediately  aftarwaida  to  prevent  appeal." 
Your  correspondent  inquires  for  tlie  nature  of  tUs 
ceremony. 

By  an  Act  of  FarUament  which  remained  un- 
repealed until  1622,  the  crime  of  manstaugbtei 
was  pmnshed  by  burning  tbe  hand  of  the  perpe- 
trator. And  by  another  Act,  remaining  in  force 
nntil  1819,  it  was  lawful  for  the  person  ii^urcd 
by  nn  offence  to  prosecute  the  supposed  ofiender 
at  his  own  cos^  and,  as  we  shall  presently  see,  at 
bis  own  risk,  indBpeedently  of  any  other  proceed- 
ings which  might  kave  bean  institnted  against 
Urn.  This  process  was  c^led  an  appeal,  and  wva 
resorted  to  only  in  three  cases — by  a  man  for  a 


wroBg  to  Ida  aneastot,  by  a  wife  for  tiie  death  of 
her  bosband,  and  for  a  wrong  leceived  by  di« 
appellaals  themsdves.  Ctmseqaently  a  penon 
accused    of  murdar,   tnaBBluif^ter,    cutting   m 


deaeendant  or  Iwidow  of  the  iU-«ued  incUvidnal, 
<lt^  sa^oaing  him  to  hav«  eanped  with  a  whole 
Am,  at  the  auit  of  the  ill-used  individual  iiinn^^if. 
Tbe  acquittal  of  the  auppoaed  offender,  after  all 
this  legal  maduneiy  had  been  set  in  motaom 
agnnst  nim,  was  a  very  msaona  aflatr  f^  tbe  pii>- 
•ecntor,  who,  by  a  statute  a£  Hdwaid  L,  was 
obliged  to  restore  damages,  pay  a  fine  to  Ae  king, 
aad  auffar  imptiaimmeat  for  a  year.  To  anm  up, 
it  would  ^paat  that  in  tbe  case  of  Geneisl  Uao- 
artaey,  m  order  to  prevent  the  occuneuce  of  this 

Spreosive  mode  of  proaecntion,  the  sentence  d 
i  law  was  carried  out,  a  cotd  iron  being  used 
instead  of  a  hot  ono.  Juliak  Shj 


"SKK^nre  TjroH  a  QniVB  QLAiTKir"  (4*  3, 
vii.  121.)— Wedgwood  gives,  "  To  «*•>,  To  glide 
or  move  quickly. — B.  To  pr^e,  Bkim,  or  touch 
lightly. — Hal."  The  latter  is  a  Somersetdiire  use. 
Tbe  word  is  also  in  Peacock's  LaiudaU  Olomary, 
edited  by  me,  with  the  meaning  "  to  slide  on  the 
ice,"  and  tbe  derivation  "Oael.  s^nnT,  slide;  Manx 
Mr,  slip,  slide."  I  do  not  find  it  in  the  Leeda, 
Fomees,  Whitby,  Orsveo,  Cleveland  glossaries  or 
in  Brockets  Glave  is  given  in  H^Uwell,  "Qio^t, 
emooUi,  polite. — Norlb,"  and  ie  the  Dan.  dial. 
glap,  smooth.  Molbeck's  example  is  "  Hestene 
ere  ff^appt,  og  ikke  broddede "  (the  horses  are 
Bmootb{shod)  iu)d  not  roughed ;  in  Cleveland, 
"slape-ebod  and  not  frosted.")  Glatten  is  from 
SweO.  gl^  Doa  glal,  Oerm.  giatt,  smooth,  slip- 
peiy — a  word  applied  specially  to  ice   by  toe 

Danes.  S.  C.  ATSDiaOH. 

Dubj  hi  Clvrelaal 
Loan  Pluuxbt  QI*  S.  i 
nrrespondent   Ma.   Pao 


i.  93,  196.)- Your 
agrees  with   Lord 


Brou^am,tbe  Quor^er^  reviewer,  and  (of  course) 
wiUiLord  Plunket  in  maintaining  tbe  sense  of  the 
image  of  Time  with  the  hour-glasa  and  the  scythe. 
MilPboweit  ia  thereforeinworahiprul company. 
He  will,  however,  pardon  mo  for  assuring  him 
that  the  image  is  nonsense,  and  that  he  fails  in 
his  attempt  to  vindicate  it  from  that  imputation. 
The  statutes  of  limitation  have  nothing  to  do 
with  the  loss  of  tbe  origiHol  grant  or  of  any  grmit, 
but  were  enacted  to  protect  the  man  in  possee- 


whieh  the  scythe  of  time  has  destroyed,  but  by 
tbe  production  of  some  grant  by  an  adverse  claim- 
ant, which  the  scythe  has  omitted  to  destroy.    If 


Ma.  PaowETT  wiU  ask  any  competent  property 
lawyer  «n  tbe  point,  he  wiU  not  persist  in  detend-i 
isg  wittt  is  demonitrably  indefennble. 


1c 


NOTES  AND  QUEBZES.         [iftayii.MABCHas.: 


FESsaxBUH  FuT  or  Fabidat  (4^  8.  vii.  140.) 
The  most  extncndiiiMT  thing  in  thta  walk  Ajtpean 
to  me  to  be  the  fsct  that  so  great  a  man  as  Fara- 
day ^ould  have  acampered  through  aome  of  the 
moat  awful  and  grand  aoeneiyin  SwitEerland  with 
the  nwed  that  might  exonsablj  have  been  used 
br  a  lettei-camer  or  a  fljing-poat  I  passed  over 
uie  same  ground  in  a  nnale  daj  a  few  jeara  ago, 
Btarting  at  ox  a.u.  on  foot,  from  Leuk  in  the 
T^a;,  a  greater  diatance  from  Than,  and  break- 
ing m;  faat  at  Leukabad  at  the  foot  of  the  Oemmi. 
But  I  loitered  aome  time  in  making  that  marrel- 
loua  accent,  and  a  atiU  longer  time  about  the  dead 
sea  at  the  snmniit,  where  I  loncbed  in  a  wa;^ side 
inn ;  and  after  dimng  at  Kanderateg  or  Frubgen, 
I  forget  which,  aet  off  for  Thun,  which  I  reached 
lata  m  the  evening,  haTing  had  the  good  fortune 
to  meet  with  a  lift  for  the  latter  part  of  m;  soll- 
taiT  walk.  1  certainly  felt  no  ill  effects  from 
fatigne,  but  I  did  not  race  agunst  time.  W.  H.  S. 

PsniCE  PlTECKLXB  MUSKAC  (4"  S.  Til,  77.)— 
Irut  wiU  find  a  list  of  Prince  Pucliler-Muskau's 
works  in  Yapereau's  Diti,  de*  ConUmporauu  and 
in  the  Cvnvertationt  Lexicon,  front  which  Z  have 
condensed  the  following  notes:— 

Prince  Hermann  of  Fuckler-Muskau,  the  well- 
known  tiennan  traveller  and  horticulturist,  was 
bom  in  17S5,  according  to  the  Almanac  dt  Ooiha, 
and  served  in  the  army  of  the  ^og  of  Saxony. 
During  the  Qerman  war  agunat  Napoleon  he 
entered  the  Buaaian  aervice,  distinguished  himself 
in  the  Netherlands,  and  was  appointed  military 
governor  of  Brages.  After  the  restoration  of 
peace  be  passed  a  year  in  England,  and  then  de- 
voted himself  on  a  grand  scale  to  the  embellish- 
ment of  his  property  of  Muskao  in  Silesia,  which 
was  sold  in  1846  to  Prince  Frederic  of  the  Nether- 
lands. His  illustrated  work  on  landscape  garden- 
ing (1834)  was  the  first  of  these  horticultural 
labours.  In  1817  Prince  Pockler-Muakau  married 
a  daughter  of  Prince  Hardenberg,  but  divorced 
her  in  1826,  and  travelled  during  several  years  in 
Europe,  ^ypt,  and  Syria.  He  now  usually  re- 
udee  on  hia  estate  Branitz,  in  the  circle  of  Kotbus, 
where  splendid  gardens  have  been  planned  under 
his  direction.  In  1863  he  becamo  a  member  of 
the  Prussian  House  of  Lords.  He  has  no  chil- 
dren, and  his  cousin  is  beii  to  the  title.  The 
best-known  works  of  Prince  Puckler-Muekau  are 
the  Briefe  einet  VtrOorbenai  (1831),  in  4  vols. ; 
rBtti'/nrid",  3vols.  1836;  Sentilauo  in  Africa,  S[c., 
in  wliich  be  has  described  the  aristocratic  society 
in  which  he  moved  in  every  part  of  Europe,  in  an 
easy,  conversationnl,  off-hand,  jovial  tone,  from 
the  point  of  view  of  a  German  nobleman,  in  a 
style  bristling  with  wit,  incorrect  grammar,  and 
n.ii:^:.....  n    u 


Hindu  goddess,  will  receive  a  partial  ai 


entitled  i'trk  Impreuiont; 
AAV,,  1841:  — 


I  Day  II 


QaUiciso 


A.R. 


Aacib:*!  BniLDixes  nt  Kiasuix  (4**  S.  vi. 
527;  vii.  110.)— The  query  about  Kale^  the 


ipnaeaiatian  of  tha  soddiw  JToht.  Slie  U 
the  iDldiry  deity  ol  Calcutta,  which  is  named  (h>m  bo ) 
■nd  ahe  is  the  great  olject  of  adoratlaa  among  tin  Tba^ 
and  PhUKgars,  whose  ijitamBtie  and  woaderAil  plana 
□r  murdn-  and  mbMaoeiit  robbery  hive  so  lately  beta 
brought  to  ligbt.  Tblj  idol  li  iHireaoikd  black  in  coloor 
(kola  ligolSti  bUck),  with  fenr  band*,  la  ene  she  helds 
a  knife ;  la  on«  a  lotu,  I  think  i  la  snothw  MmetUag 
elMi  and  in  (he  founli  ■  human  head,  thi  lUreamins 
tdood  tnim  vhlch  >he  ii  lapping  with  her  onlUretched 
tongue — an  emblem  bat  too  typical  of  tha  bloody  rilci 
connected  with  her  worship.  She  atands  od  a  prostrate 
flgnre,  munt,  I  believe,  for  that  of  Stem,  Ibe  Destroygr, 
whom  iba  thus  piercDta  trota  umihilBting  the  worid.^' 

All  this  I  knew  tiefore,  but  what  does  it  all 
mean  t    Qf  what  is  Kalee  the  symbol  f 

QUXBISI. 

F.8.  Who  is  the  author  (an  Indian  anrgeon) 
of  this  little  work  of  forty-two  pages  printed  at 
Yarmouth  F  3Iy  copy  beara  the  inscription  "To 
B.  Holme,  Esq.,  this  letter,  originally  addressed 
to  Sir  Francis  Palgrave'e  children,  u.  it  is  felt, 
presented  with  peculiar  propriety  by  tne  editor," 
Added  in  another  hand,  "Dawson Turner,  Esq.,  of 
Yarmouth." 

Akhs  of  BmrvBiniio  Celuni  (4*  S.  vi.  836.) 
Since  I  wrote  the  note  at  this  reference  I  have  ob- 
t^ed  the  edition  of  1830,  published  by  Qiuseppe 
Molini,  which  Mr.  Roecoe  used  for  his  re-issue  of 
his  translation  in  1860.  I  find  that  the  paaaa^ 
which  I  mention  in  the  second  column,  on  p.  33&, 
containing  the  words  "col  campo  di  dette  arme," 
stands  thus— 

"Tonundo  a  qaeltaebeiofeeibrenelaepolcrodel  mio 
fralello,  er»,"  &in,  "  col  campo  di  delU  arme  pirtilo  ia 
qnattro  qnarti,  e  qndl'  sccetia  che  io  Feci  fa  Eota  percbr 
Don  mi  si  scordawi  di  faro  le  snc  wndette." 

It  turns  out,  therefore,  that  Molini  bad  been 
able  to  complete  thia  passage  from  the  MS.,  and 
that  a  change  bad  been  made  in  the  text.  But 
Mr.  Roscoe's  translation  ic  1860  does  not  give  Uie 
meaning  of  the  passage.  Mr.  Roacoo  says,  "  with 
a  field  of  the  said  arms  divided  in  four  quarters." 

This  rendering  does  not  give  the  meaning  of 
Cellini's  eUtement.  In  his  Italian  it  is  quite  in- 
telligible—"co/  campo  di  detto  arme  partito  in 
Soattro  qusjti " ;  that  is  to  sav,  notwitn  a  field, 
ut  "with  tht  field  of  the  said  arms  divided  into 
four  quarters," 

This  is  correctly  stated,  althongh  Cellini  omitUd 
to  give  the  tincturea  of  the  quarters.  It  is  curions 
to  observe  how  thoroughly  the  Cellini  seem  to 
have  treated  their  arms  at  liable  to  be  altered  at 
their  own  pleasure.  "  La  quale  io  1'  alterai  da  quel 


4«s.  Til.  luncn  30,71.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


26T 


c^c  r  h  propria,"  he  e*.ji  of  bimeelf ;  and  of  others 
"mio  padre  me  k  mastro,  la  quale  era  la  zampa 
sola  con  tutto  il  reat&ute  delle  d«tt«  cose :  ma  a 
me  pid  piaceiebbe  clie  si  osservaui  quella  dei 
Cellini  di  BaTenna  sopradetta."  Then  Ee  goes  on 
to  describe  ti\e  change  which  he  made  in  the  arms 
on  his  brother's  monument,  "Tomando  a  quella," 
Ac,  as  I  hare  alread;  quotedi  I>.  P. 

Stout)  Lodge,  MnlTem  WcUa. 

Thb  OtDKT  IlIlIB  DT  Enolahi)  (4'^  8.  Yl.  505.) 
There  is  an  old  inn  ot  tavern  at  the  foot  of  Shude 
Hill  in  Manchester,  called  "The  Seren  Stars," 
irhich,  it  ia  gaid,  has  been  a  licensed  house  since 
A.D.  1360-60,  the  proof  of  which  lies  in  Lancaster 
Caatle,  where  are  deposited  the  records  of  the 
Tuioua  licences.  I  presume  country  licenceswere 
granted  at  this  early  period.  There  is  also  a 
tradition  that  the  workmen  at  the  old  phurch 
(now  the  cathedral,  formetlj  a  coUegiBte  church 
from  ite  foundation,  opening  of  the  hfteenth  cen- 


ScFTOLK  Hood  Scbeens  (4**  S.  vii.  143.) — Add 
to  list,  Kersey,  SuSblk.  At  thU  church,  dedicated 
to  St.  Mary,  are  remains  of  a  fine  rood  screen, 
partly  now  punted  to  correspond  with  the  pews ; 
but  fortunately  the  figures,  consisting  of  three 
ecclesiastics  and  three  kings,  have  been  left  nearly 
untouched.  These  wore  considered  so  fine  and 
perfect  that  they  were  etched  and  published  for 
the  Suffolk  Archsolo^cal  Society,  in  Ipswich,  in 
1846.  The  engravings  of  them  are  well  done,  and 
tbe  six  are  shown  in  colours.  C.  Uolsiko. 

Faddiugton.  . 

The  Sbtbs  Wokdkbs  op  Wales  (4"  S.  vii. 
143.) — Why  Overton  churchyard  waa  one  of  tbe 
wonders  is  little  known  to  this  generation.  Fifty 
years  ngo  it  was  a  local  joke  to  task  the  ability  of 
strangers  to  count  the  yew-ttees  in  the  church- 
yard, seldom  accomplished  correctly,  as  there  was 
one  on  the  top  of  the  church  tower.      U.  0 — n. 

CcsTOus  AT  Mabbiaoes,  Bibieb,  akdFdke- 
EALS  (4*  S.  vii.  60.)— The  customs  common  in 
Fifi^shire  thirty  yearsago  so  closely  resemble  those 
of  the  West  Ilia-blnnd  districts,  that  the  interesting 
notes  of  your  learned  correspondent  Cuthbeei 
Bbdb  might  he  accepted  as  a  general  account  of 

A  brief  description  of  the  difference  between 
them  may  be  worth  inserting  in  "  N.  &  Q," 

Mnrriage  Cuttona. — On  tbe  eve  of  the  weddbg- 
day  the  most  intimate  friends  of  the  hnppj  pair 
met  at  the  bride's  father's  house  to  take  part  in 
the  "feet-washing,"  which  was  looked  upon  as 
great  fun. 

A  tub  of  water  was  placed  in  the  best  room 
and  tbe  bride's  feet  washed  by  her  female  friends — 
the  men,  atanding  outside  the  door,  making  jokes 


and  ttndeavouriog  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  the  opera- 
lioD.  As  soon  as  this  washing  was  Snished  the. 
brid^Toom  was  brought  in,  and,  amidst  much 

memmect,  made  to  sit  at  tbe  tub ;  bis  stocklnga 
were  then  pulled  off,  his  legs  grasped  in  any  but 
a  tender  manner,  and  unsparmgly  daubed  by  all 
who  could  get  near  with  a  mixture  of  greaM,  soot, 
ashes,  and  a  few  dndeie. 

There  was  great  struggling  to  avoid  this  part 
of  the  performance;  however,  it  did  not  sladcen 
the  energies  of  the  company,  and  lucky  was  the 
man  who  escaped  with  only  slight  scratches.  The 
"real  wsshing"  followed,  and  a  supper,  songs, 
and  whisky  ended  the  evening. 

On  the  wedding-day  there  was  no  "washing 
of  tbe  bride,"  nor  were  any  pipetB  seen  at  the 


Saptitmal  OMtom*,— Before  starting  for  the 
kirk  the  "  christening-piece,"  conmating  of  short- 
bread, cheese,  and  oatcake,  was  mode  up  into  ft 
white  paper  parcel  tied  with  ribbons;  this  the 
mother  held  m  her  right  hand  as  she  left  the 
house  and  presented  to  the  first  person  met  by 
her,  whether  stranger  or  friend,  gentle  oi  mmple. 
The  "christening  piece"  was  wways  gladly  ac- 
cepted, and  in  return  kind  wishes  were  expressed 
for  the  future  happiness  of  the  child. 

Funeral  Ciutomt. — The  same  as  those  described 
by  your  correspondent,  with  the  exception  of  tbe 
bagpipe-playing,  which  is  seldom  heard  in  this 
part  of  the  country.  Another  curioua  custom 
m^  be  added  to  the  foregoing : — 

If  a  wife  deserted  her  bosbond,  he  would  never* 
theless  have  his  table  spread  for  her  at  each  meal, 
and  going  to  the  door  of  the  room,  audibly  invite 
her  to  jom  him  in  partaking  of  the  food  prepared. 
When  he  had  repeated  thisform  for  twelve  months 
and  a  day  the  marriage  bonds  were  annulled,  and 
the  man  could  take  unte  himself  another  wife. 
G.  J.  3.  Lock. 

RicnABB  Twiss;  "ToiJB  in  Irklakd"  (4'" 
S.  vii.  163.)— 

"WhM'er  oO^iida,  at  some  unlucky  time 
Slides  into  vene,  or  hitches  in  ■  rbfine," 
as  did  Mb.  Pihxbbtoii'h  "Tourist";  on  whom 
Irish  susceptibilities  fulfilled  their  Nemeeis  by  the 
agency  of  a  speculative  tradesman,  with  his  tront- 
faced  and  open-mouthed  p(h)otograph  at  the/imd 
of  a  household  implement,  which  assured  ite  sub- 
stantial AS  well    as  its  nominal  success.    Some 
years  aco  I  saw  one  of  these  in  a  private  museum, 
where  it  is  still  perhaps  exhibited  te  the  favoured 
few,  with  its  epigrapbic  couplet  —  the  last  line 
whereof,  and  ite  rhymal  "  hiteh  " — 
"Upon  lying  Dick  Twin," 
though  I  could  plead  my  kinsmanship  with  the 
very  i«verend  rhymer  who  more  than  once  verified 
and  versified  ite  _firtt  in  his  Satjres — is  all  that  I    r 
ventnre  to  transcribe  for  "  N.  &  Q."       E.  L.  8.    M  C 


268 


KOTES  ASD  QUERIES. 


[4<k  S.  Til.  HABon  ib.1l. 


Tbxtzkis'  "  Orxte  Hebball  "  (4*  S,  vii.  102.) 
On  lefeniDg  to  Lowndes'  B^^iogr^her*'  Mamtal, 
I  find  that  your  correspondent's  copy  of  the  Above 
iroi^ifitheBecond  edition.  Lowndes  gives  the  fol- 
lowing description  :  "  The  Ortla  Herbal.  London 
in  South wark  b]r  me  Peter  Tieveris.  1516.  FoKo." 
Fiequentlj  reprinted.  The  1526  edition  is  the 
second.  It  wa£  purchased  at  the  Inslis  sale  for  31, 
C.  B.  P. 

Thb  Vbiwstl  Thsohx  (i"-  S.  vii.  102.)  — 
Hendotus  does  not  connect  the  ph«mx  with  tnj 
ttee  (ii.  73.)  Shakeqteare  may  tkave  derived  tbu 
leg«iiil  about  the  plicenix  tiata  PhilemoB  Hal- 
limd'a  tmnalalion  of  Pliny's  Nattrat  Sittay, 
book  liiL  chap,  iv.: — 

"  I  royself  bare  hurd  Btnunge  thinga  of  Uui  kiad  of 
tnt,  and  aaiiitilj  in  rcgird  of  tbe  bird  phonix,  wbidi  is 
supposed  to  bave  tik«n  that  name  of  tbia  daU  trae  ;  fbi 
it  mu  unind  nnlo  me  that  the  nid  bird  died  wilh  that 
tree,  4od  nvived  of  Kself  m  the  tire  f^nmK  asdn." 

Or  from  hyly'e  Ei^huee  .■ — 

"  At  there  Is  bat  one  pbtBoii  in  the  world,  to  there  is 
bat  (me  tree  In  which  sh«  bandeth." 
Or  iiom  Florio's  IlaUan  Dictionary  (1596)  ;— 

"  Kaiux.  a  tre«  in  Arabia,  whanof  there  is  but  mt 
found,  and  upon  it  (he  pbosnix  sits." 

Sfaakespenre  makes  half-a-da>en  otber  sllunons 
to  this  fitbulous  bird,  but  none  that  bean  on  this 
pusage  so  mnch  as— 

"  Let  the  bird  of  loadeit  In; 
Ud  the  sob  Arabian  tree,^ 
in  The  Pasaenale  Pilgrim  (irii.  or  XX.) 

Itwillbeintereatiag  to  thereadera  of  "K.  &Q." 
to  know  that  in  these  Tersee  (flist  printed  wiUi 
Jtt^Mrt  Chester'e  Roiaisitde)  Malone,  on  the  ad- 
vice of  a  learned  frieiui,  bad  intended  to  make 
tbe  alteiatian : — 

"' Sola  OQ  the  Arabiao 
bian  tivss  and  batoHe  Arabian  bird.  But  'nalla  uaquam 
conctatia  maEoa  «t,'  for  this  passage  iu  The  Tempat 
Bopports  the  Old  copy." 

J.  H.  I.  Oaelet,  M.A. 

Croydon. 

In  Chalmers'  edition  of  3hak«[ieare  I  find  the 
following  note,  which  may  be  of  interest  to  your 
coTrespondeat  Uaeroohbix 

"  Onr  poet  hud  probably  Lylj 
lead  partiraiUrly  tti  bU  thov^li . 

is  bat  one  [duanix  in  tlw  w^d,  sou  there    

■n  Arabia  wfaerelii  (he  buildeth.'  See  also  Floiio'e  Itatiai 
Dictionary,  1598 :  '  liaain,  a  ti«e  in  Arabia,  whereof 
then  U  but  one  found,  and  npon  it  the  pbceolx  aita.' " 

Tkia  note  is  attributed  to  Malone.       C.  R,  P. 

BbcKET'H  UUBHItBXItS :   SOKSBaETSHIBZ   Tka- 

Bmosa  (4"-  S,  yii.  33, 171, 195.)— Of  the  gmves 
00  the  Flat  Holms  tueationedbr  Mb.  Towsbhehii 
Hatks  I  have  not  heard,  but  Me  "  abbey "  he  in- 
qnires  for  was  Worspring— nowin^roperlycaHed 
Woodspring—prioiy,  founded  about  1210  by  Wil- 
liam de  Cortenai  for  Auatin  Caaons  who  aban- 


doned a  house  at  Dodalynch  in  tbe  same  counfy. 
The  church  was  dedicated  to  the  Holy  Triiutj, 
tiie  blessed  Mary,  and  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr ;  and 
the  tradition  bos  survived  that  it  wss  in  expiatioa 
of  the  murder  of  St.  Thomas  &  Becket,  the  founder 
"being  fleiciuiiJnJ  from  William  de  Trsci  (which 
is  incorrect,  as  will  be  shown),  and  nearly  related 
to  the  three  other  'asBasMPatoie'  of  the  canoniied 
archbishop." 

In  the  JVon.  .4>yl.  (vi.  416)  will  be  found  a  lettar 
to  "  J(oBoeUD)  lushop  of  Bath"  (1306-24),  from 
William  de  CmtenBi,  detuling  his  intention  of 
fimnding  a  convent  "  whwe  a  Aa^  dedicated  to 
St.  Thomas  the  Marhr  stood  in  his  own  demesDa 
of  Worspryng,"  for  the  benefit  of  the  sodIs  of  his 
Esther  Robert  (whose  body  rests  there)  and  mother, 
bis  own,  his  mfe's,  his  anceshns',  and  sacceaeor'B. 

Tlua  William  de  Courtensi,  althau|;b  doubtie« 
leUted,  was  not  one  of  tbe  Devon  family,  as  gens- 
rally  sa^MMed.  (Pedigree  by  late  Dr.  Oliver  and 
Hr.  I^tman  Jonea  in  vol.  X.  of  .ilreAeot  Jeuraal, 


Courtenay  who  inherited  the  honour  of  Mont- 
gomeiT,  and  of  whom  some  account  may  be  found 
in  the  best  of  all  county  histories— Ey ton's  SKrop- 
jUre(xi.  128),  although  he  is  not  there  reco^ised 
as  the  founder  of  this  priory.  He  was  dead,  without 
issue,  1214 ;  and  Ada,  his  widow,  was  remarried 
to  Theobald  Laacelles.  He  was  the  only  siuiA  of 
Robert  de  Courtenay,  by  Matilda,  daughter  and 
heiress  of  Reginald  Fitzurse,  one  of  the  aagaswna, 
from  whom  be  inherited  Worspring. 

And  I  may  further  add,  because  it  is  also  not  in 
Collinson's  Somert^thire,  that  the  mother  of  Be- 
gijiald  was  Matilda,  daugfater  and  heiress  of  Bald- 
win de  Boilers,  lord  of  Monlsomery,  by  Sybil  de 
Faluse.  Now  in  tlie  Domesday  Book  (06  b.)  we 
read:  "William  de  Faleise  himself  holds  Wor- 
spring  by  consent  of  Einr  William.  Serlo  da 
Borci  gave  it  him  with  bis  aangbter." 

Curiously  Boongh  I  cannot  show  that  WilUan 
de  Courtenay  was  even  related  to  William  de 
Trad,  although  I  find  that  be  was  connected  vrith 
the  families  of  the  two  other  assaasips — Hugh  de 
Morvile  and  Hichard  Brito.  Margery,  a  sister  of 
Reg^ald  Fitzurse,  widow  of  Richud  Engaine, 
was  remarried  to  Oeofirey  Bnto,  and  Hugh  de 
Morevile  inherited  his  manor  of  Burgh-upon-^ands 
in  Cumberland  from  his  grandmother  Ada  En- 
gaine. A.  8.  'i'^'"- 

Brompton. 

ClSTEBCIAIT  MOHUIEBIBS  (i""  S.  \a.  141.) — 

The  finest  Cisterdan  abbeys  m  England  are  — 
Fountains  (described  in  Walbran'a  £^>on)  j  Kn- 
tem  (Potter's  Monaitic  ArchHectwe) :  Rjevanlz 
(Churton'8^W«.o/Fiwft*«f<,  Add.  MS.27,76*); 
Fumess  (Beck,  and  We^  ed.  by  Close,  1S05); 
Build  was  (Arch.  Amoc.  Jomial,  Add.  MS.  27,706) ; 
Scarborough  (firittoo's  ArtJi.  Anlig.),  an  alien 


4»8.vii.iiA««i2S.7i.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


■bbey,  DO  monaatic  buildiDgs  left;  Old  CI^tq 
(Bar.  T.  Huko,  in  Sonurtet  Arch.  Soe.  Jour., 
Ti.  17, 64 ;  Til72 ;  KiiksUl  (Di.  WhitAker's  le«ib, 
and  an  Bceonnt  with  Hulreadj's  dnvings,  1827 
NeUey  (Wills'  SaUi),  GiUaume's  At<X  Viewt, 
DoK  (O.  Jtf.  liiL  395;  nai.  487)  ;  VaUe  Cruda 
(Arch.  Can^  ni.  401) ;  and  Whalle;  (Dr.  WMt- 
aker). 

Ford,  Mererale,  and  Crozden  ue  described  in 
the  Journal  of  tie  Brit.  Arch.  Aaodalioit,  xxL 
294,  vii.  S24,  and  Fotd  in  Somartet  Arch.  Soc. 
Jow.  ziii.  49.  Beaulien  lias  the  monastic  build- 
inca  well  preserved.  Sallar,  Jorevelle,  Bjlaod 
(your.  Ajuitc.  Soc.,  vii.  220),  and  Roche  retain 
onU  small  portions.   (See  Cburton's  Abbej/t.) 

la  my  Sacrtd  Archaology  I  hare  indicated  the 
apewd  peculiarities  of  the  rule  aa  it  ofiected  the 
Rinuture  and  arrangement  of  Ciaterdon  libbeTS, 
■nd  also  the  rare  and  later  deTiatioaa  tarn  the 


rigid  uniformity  and  sparuig  decoration  in^sted 
npon  bj  this  seclnded  order.  The  HitUry  of 
Maaux,  edited  by  Mr.  Bond,  the  keeper  of  the  MSS. 


of  the  Britifih  Museum,  with  the  Nomtulicon, 
should  be  consulted  as  well  as  Martene.  The 
churches  of  Fountains,  Tintem,  Netley,  Fumesa, 
Eirkatal,  Bnildwas,  Dore,  Whalley,  and  Valle 
Cmcia  are  more  or  less  complete ;  but  all  these 
most  Tield  to  the  unrivalled  beauty  of  the  i^oir, 
and  die  grandenr,  even  in  niin,  of  the  fratry  of 
Bievaolx,  which  unfortunately  is  the  least  se- 
ceaeible. 

Melrose,  Scotland  (Wade),  and  Arch,  Comb., 
N.  8.,  viiL  74;  Morton's  TeektdaU. 

MACKKHnB  E.  C.  Waicott,  B.D.,  F.S.A. 

The  latest  and  most  coireot  account  is  A  Gatde 
to  lUmttt  Abbey,  fourth  edition,  1870,  edited  by 
Dr.  Barber,  with  HlustrationB  and  ground  plan, 
published  by  D.  Atkinson,  Ulvecston.        Anok. 

Fountains  Abbey,  near  Sipon,  is  probably  the 
finest  Cisterdan  monastery  in  EnKlaod,  and  there 
is  a  good  account  of  it  m  W«lbraa's  Guide  to 
Biptm  and  NeiffhbotirAood. 

J.  T.  FowLHi,  F,SA 

Hatfield  HbU,  DnAaDi. 

The  editorial  note  refers  the  querist,  A  For- 
nsHKB,  to  a  deecrintion  of  tbe  Cfisterdan  abbey 
of  Funiess.  I  woula  also  refer  him  to  the  Gwtle- 
mim't  Magaiine  tot  Marcb,  1790,  where  he  would 
find  a  full  history  aud  deecripUon  of  another 
fiimoue  Cisterdan  abbey,  that  ofKirhetal]  in  York- 
shire.  Tbe  article  is  illustrated  by  a  well-exe- 
cuted engraving  of  the  plan  of  the  abbey.  There 
are  seTeral  fioe  picturesque  ruins,  more  or  less 
extensive,  of  other  famous  Cisterciftn  abbeys  in 
England,  of  which  the  followiog  are  the  most 
noted,  which  I  place  in  the  order  of  their  former 
value  and  importance  : — Fountains,  in  Yorkahite ; 
Stratford  LanKthom,  in  Essex;  Buckfostre,  in 
Devraishife;  JorevatsndMelso, Yorkshire;  WaN 


dm  and  Wobnni,  Bedfordshire ;  Bivaulx  and  By- 
land,  Yorkshire;  and  Stonely,  in  Warwickshiro. 
F.  C.  H. 

Bills  actuallx  fsssKXiBO  (4"'  S.  viL  3% 
132.)— The  following  particulBrs  were  attached 
to  a  Coun^  Oourt  aummona,  about  a  yeu  ago,  in 
a  not  very  "benighted  part  of  the  country.  I  etmj 
them  verbatim  et  lileraUm  as  they  ^peered,  wiu- 
out  stop  or  break  of  any  kind :  — 

••  H' Iiish  Morgui  boot  of  M"  Emma  Uingan  88  ysars 
of  Noon  at  wane  ihitling  pav  ;w>  XS8  rent  at  graoBi 
£17  recsivd  15  shilling  acd  roar  half  biuhil  af  flooer  at 
10  shilling  pair  boriill  £tO  Istn  of  the  Edge  IS  ahiUing 
the  Ibd  ■  Uonnt  £415" 

The  sum  clumed  was  2t  Ss.  C.  S. 

SivB  iini  THB  Whixebotb  (4""  3.  vii.  124.)— 
I  cannot  answer  the  queation  which  H.  puts  oa 
this  subject,  but  I  can  give  him  an  illustratioa 
which  may  perhaps  dear  the  matter  a  little. 

I  have  before  me  a  copy  of  The  Gaardian  of 
June  7,  1831 — a  paper  published  at  Belfast. 
Several  columns  of  this  paper  are  occupied  with 
accounts  of  the  outragea,  either  accomplished  or 
expected,  of  the  Tenv  Alts,  a  seciet  society  which 
at  that  time  confined  its  operations  to  tbe  coun^ 
of  Clare ;  but  what  I  wish  to  coll  attention  to  is, 
the  variety  of  names  by  which  the  membma  of 
this  society  ore  indicated  in  the  successive  pBr»- 
grapha  of  one  issue  of  a  newspaper.  They  are 
called  "Terry  Alts,"  "Terries,"  "Mrs,  Alt  and 
Children,"  "  Lady  Clare's  ChUdren,"  "  Terry  Alt'8 
Men."  The  state  of  affura  in  co.  Clare  at  this 
period  must  have  been  terrible.  The  Dublin 
Eeenitig  Xait  says :  "  We  potest  to  Qod,  we  know 
not  what  is  to  become  of  Ulan."  W.  H.  P. 

Bd&at.  ' 

Thb  Veto  at  Papai.  ELBCitoifs  (4"  S.  viL 
163.) — It  is  observed  in  an  interesting  and  cnie- 
fully  written  French  work  on  the  Conclave,  that, 
"  by  long  custom,  the  cardinals  of  Austria,  France, 
and  Spain  have  the  right  of  excluding  any  person 
whose  election  they  consider  injurious  to  the  in- 
terest of  their  respective  countries ;  but  this  right 
they  can  exercise  only  once."  This  remsins  in 
fbll force;  but  1  believe  there  bta  been  no  exer- 
cise of  it  in  late  elections.  F.  C  H. 

St.  WoLFaix  (4'»  S.  vii.  162.)— Notwith- 
standing the  caution  of  A.  O.  V.  P.  that  the  St. 
Wulfran  for  whom  he  inquires  must  not  be 
confounded  with  his  namesake,  whose  feast  is 
March  20,  he  may  rest  assured  that  tbev  ore  both 
one  and  the  same,  the  well-known  Arcnbiahop  ot 
Sens.  In  the  course  of  his  search  in  the  Ada 
Sanctorum  and  many  other  booka,  how  came  he 
to  overlook  our  own  old  flagliah  calendars  and 
Liturgy  P  There  he  would  have  found  that  St. 
''^"'fian's  feast,  though  kevt  in  foreign  churches 
_  larch  20,  was  observed  in  the  old  English  t\^ 
rite  on  October  15.   In  the  very  early  calendar  S 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[i*^  8.  VIL  SUncB  25,  "71. 


printed  ia  Mafikell'B  MonumetUa  EituaUa  ^i.  160), 
we  find  no  St  Wulfran  on  Much  20;  but  on 
OctolMr  16  we  hare  "8.  Woltan  bischop  uid 
confeasour."  And  in  the  more  copious  CBlendar 
which  follows  it,  March  SO  has  onlv  St.  Cuthbert, 
yaat  u  we  keep  him  now  in  the  Catholic  Ordo , 
Dut  on  October  16  we  find  "  Wnlfranni  episcop.' 
Again,  in  a  fine  old  folio  MS.  "JUiamle  ad  naum 
Siwum"  of  the  earlj  part  of  the  fifteenth  centuir, 
in  my  poaseasion,  St  Wulfran's  office  occnn  only 
on  October  15.  It  ia  impossible  to  suppose  that 
the  Archbishop  of  Sens  was  not  celebrated  in 
England;  and  we  ma;  fairlj  conclude  that  it  was 
he  who  was  honoured  on  October  IS.     F,  C.  H, 

The  pariah  church  of  Qranth&m  ia  dedicated  to 
this  eamt,  the  only  one  that  is  so,  1  helieve,  in 
England ;  and  aa  there  is  a  fiur  held  on  Oct  St, 
which  is  Oct.  16  0.  S.,  I  suppose  it  is  the  St 
Wulfran  whom  jour  correspondent  A.  0.  V.  P. 
inc|uires  about.  Probably  local  hiatories  saj  who 
this  sunt  was.  R  L,  Bleneifbopf. 

Springtbcrpe  Rectoiy. 

Carlo  Crtvelli  (4?^  S.  -rii.  161.)— The  earliest 
punting  known  by  this  master  is  an  altar-mece  in 
the  church  of  San  Silvestro  at  Masaa,  dated  1468 ; 
hLg  latest  work  known  is  in  the  Oggioni  Collection 
at  MUan,  dated  1403. 

Mb.  John  PioaoT  may  consult  the  following 
works  for  information  respecting  this  great  mas- 
ter:— 

Eidalfi  (Carlo),  U  Utrariglie  deU'  Art^  plates,  4to, 
Ven«t  ia,  1MB ;  aaotber  edition,  2  vaU,  pUtw,  8to,  Padua, 
1B33-7. 

Ordni  (BaldastBre).  Descriiione  dell*  Fittore.  .  .  . 
Citt^  dl  AmoU,  Rvo,  Peni^i,  1790. 

llkei  (Amico),  Memone  etoricfafl  delle  Arti  e  degli 
Arliati  dcUa  Mgrca  di  Anwai,  2  vols.  Syo,  UaccrBta. 
183). 

Our  National  Gallery  possesses  »r'.r  (not  foot) 
works  bv  Crivelli.  W.  MaKss. 

7,  Red  Lion  Square. 

Information  about  this  painter  and  his  works 
may  be  gleaned  from  Uarhoni,  Ldterati  e  ArHdi 
Aseohui.  Had  your  correspondent  conaulted  Mr, 
Womum's  excellent  catalogue  of  the  pictures  in 
the  National  Gallery,  he  would  have  found  re- 
ferences to  this  and  other  authorities.  Tbia  cata- 
logue, by  the  wny,  is  a  most  useful  manual  of 
refei«DCe  for  the  biographies  of  painters  of  all 
Ages  and  schools.  Georqe  U.  Gbben, 

27,  KiDg  William  Streel,  Stracd. 

Weoho  Dates:  Ciooli  {4""  S.  vii.  133.)— 
Among  the  pictures  mentioned  in  TAe  Times  of  the 
13th  Match,  as  Iiaving  been  saved  bv  extraordinary 
exertions  from  (he  Sk  at  Holker'Hall,  is  a  "  St. 
Francis"  by  Cigoli.  A  metnber  of  my  family 
posteases  a  "St  Francis"  by  CigoU  which  is  a 
poizle  to  us.  The  style  of  the  paintiag,  its  great 
merit,  and  the  seal  of  the  grand  ducal  arms  of 
Tuscany,  seem  to  concur  in  attesting  its  genuine- 


ness. The  damaging  hand  of  lestorer  or  cleaner 
has  touched  it  but  lightly  and  the  careful  re- 
moval of  a  veil  of  dirt  has  revealed  to  ua  the 
signature  of  "L.  0.  C"  (i.«.  of  Ludorico  Cardi 
da  Cigoli),  1819."  Now,  all  the  hiographiea  I 
have  access  to  give  1613  as  the  date  of  CigoU's 
deatb.  These  hiographies,  it  is  true,  are  mostly 
compilations,  and  copied  the  one  from  the  other; 
yet  the  narrative  of  CigoU's  last  illneas,  last  hour 
eren,  is  so  circumstantially  told,  that  it  is  ha^ 
to  believe  it  an  invention.  On  the  other  band, 
how  unaccountable  would  be  a  forgery  with  an 
impoauble  date  on  a  work  of  such  auperlative 
merit  I  In  this  dilemma  I  would,  with  your  per- 
mission^  inqmre  of  your  many  readers  whether 
any  pamtina;  of  Cigoli'a  is  known  to  exist  of  a 
later  date  uan  1613,  or  whether  any  bionaphy 
gives  a  later  dale  for  his  decease.  U.  D.  C. 

Ballooits  Ain>  ths  Sieoe  of  Fasts  (4*^  S.  vii. 
207.) — The  last  balloon,  GSnSral  Cambronne,  was 
sent  up  on  January  28,  and  not  the  20th.  The 
mistake  is  owing  to  an  imperfectly  printed  copy 
of  the  Ztaibj  TeUgrapK.  Thos.  Batclifte. 

Workup. 

Guizox  AND  Guise  (4"  S,  vii.  142.)— It  is  true 
that  among  the  educated  classes  in  Paris  the  first 
name  is  pronounced  (as  we  should  say)  Giete-so, 
and  the  latter  Oheeze,  It  is  equally  true  that 
there  is  no  common-sense  reason  for  the  difference. 
But  some  people  have  fandes  about  the  pronund- 
ation  of  their  names,  and  other  people  gratify 
their  follies  without  any  regard  for  the  rules  <  f 
their  own  lauiniage.  That  alone  accounts  for  the 
diSerence.  The  world  is  rery  tolerant  of  these 
fandes,  and  so  they  are  permitted  and  wmked  at 
even  by  those  who  are  well  convinced  of  their 
absurdity.     This  is  the  case  not  merely  with  the. 

IironuDCiation  of  names  (as  to  which  I  could  re- 
ate  a  funny  illustration),  but  also  as  to  the  as- 
sumption of  titles  of  all  sorts.  The  love  of 
notoriety  is  a  common  foible,  and  they  who  have 
really  a  right  to  titles  are  the  last  to  make  a  fu»s 
about  them.  The  fuss  is  generally  in  the  inverse 
proportion  to  the  right  C.  C. 

Lbioh  Httnt's  "LKistmE  HotjRS  ni  Tows" 
(4"^  a  vii.  28, 132, 198.)  —I  think  the  book  en- 
quired for  must  be  Tht  Town,  by  Leigh  Hunt, 
pubUshed  by  Smith,  Elder,  and  Co.  in  1848. 

Charles  Wtlie. 

"The  Conciliad"  (4"'  S.  vii.  101.)  — Tlie 
author  of  this  poem  was  W.  Samson,  a  sui^jn 
at  Sherborne,  Dorsetshire ;  but  I  do  not  krow 
who  the  initials  refer  to.  It  b  not  mentioned  iu 
Lovrndei.  W.  P.  Russbll. 

Bath. 

The  "AifOBLs"  of  Stookwbul:  thb  last  of 
THE  FAMitr  (4"'  a.  vi.  871,)— Happening  to 
mention  this  notice  in  "  N.  &  Q,"  in  uie  hearing 


4*  8.  TIL  Mahcu  35, 71.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


271 


of  my  father,  who  lired  at  Stockwell  upwards  of 
eightj  yeara  ago,  he  ^amted  the  following  anec- 
dote of  the  last  member  of  that  family: — Mr. 
Angell  having  been  much  annored  by  boyg  rob- 
bing his  oicbard  end  playing  him  other  Iricke, 


>  night  went  oi 


,  and  shot  ec 


unfoitunate  wiglitwho  was  lurking  about  bid  pre- 
mises. The  shock  fo  this  geQllemHri  was  bo  ei- 
ceasiTe,  when  he  found  his  gun  had  taken  fata! 
effect,  that  he  condemned  himHlf  to  live  the  life  of 
a  recluse  ever  after,  and  remained  a  prisoner  in  his 
otvn  house  to  the  day  of  his  death,  denying  him- 
self to  all  but  one  or  two  of  his  old  and  most 
intimate  actjuaintances,  and  at  last  none  but  my 
grandfather  was  admitted  to  his  room.  Not  only 
■was  be  a  prisoner  to  the  house  but  even  lo  one  par- 
ticular spot,  where  he  sat  all  day,  and  took  no 
further  exercise  than  could  be  obtained  by  stamp- 
ing his  feet  on  the  floor  as  he  sat  in  his  chair, 
and  the  boards  were  quite  worn  away  by  the  feet 


'  two  othvr  irentlemen,  at  that  time 
comprised  the  parish  of  Stockwell,  which  unce 
has  grown  up  into  a  populous  district 

C.  T.  J.  MooBE. 
Frunplon  11*11,  near  Bostoa. 

"PiE.ixiL08iA  CbboKica"  (4'*  S.  vii.  143,J— 
I  have  a  copy  of  l)r,  Cary's  Palaologin  Chroniea, 
which  is  correctly  described  in  your  reply  to  Sr.'s 
queiT-  There  is  not  a  particle  of  personal  gene- 
alogical information^  nor,  so  far  as  I  have  seen, 
any  refi^rence  to  his  own  times  in  Dr.  Gary's 
work.  Tour  correspondent  is  in  error  ns  to  his 
relationship  to  Sir  H.  Cair.  He  was  a  brother 
and  not  a  son  of  that  unfortunate  royalist.  lie 
was  six  years  old  at  the  date  of  the  heralds'  visi- 
tation of  Devon  in  1020,  and  died  at  his  rectory 
of  East  Portlemouth,  Devon,  SepL  1G83.  Having 
devoted  much  attention  to  the  genealogy  of  the 
Carys  of  Devon,  I  should  much  like  to  be  placed 
in  communication  with  your  correspondent ;  for 
my  particulars  of  this  branch  of  the  faniilv  are  as 
yet  imperfect,  and  he  mentions  the  probability  of 
being  able  to  throw  light  upon  it 

Robert  Dtmoks. 
BonipfyUe  Honae,  Exclcr, 

Csmcisx  OB  "  Mbbchikt  of  Vbhice  "  (i'"  S. 
TIL  142.)— The  anecdote  reminds  me  of  the  late 
Mr.  Vandeohoff's  final  visit  to  Glasgow.  Behind 
me  in  the  crowded  stalls  was  a  Glnjigow  lawyer, 
who  was  so  much  impressed  with  the  great  actor's 
Shylock  as  audibly  to  say  when  the  Jew  vent 
off  diBcomSted  at  the  wing— the  actor  had  over- 
come us  all — "  Well,  Shakespeare  haa  uaed  Sliy- 
lodc  too  bad."  This  struck  me  at  the  time  as  a 
tplendid  bit  of  criticism.  I  have  not  since  hoard  ' 
it  excelled.  W.  H.    I 

Capar-Ptft.  I 


CHitBMH'a  Gajieb  (4''  S.  vii.  141.)  — I  fre- 
quently took  part  in  the  game  mentioned  by  S. 
when  a  child  at  Looe,  in  Cornwall,  fifty  years 
ago.  The  rhymes  appear  to  have  differed  sligb^y 
from  those  mentioaed  by  S.,  and  were  as  fof- 

"  '  How  many  miles  from  this  to  Bibyloo  ? ' 
'  Tlir«-«!ore  and  wn.' 
'  Can  ire  get  OitK  by  day  light  ?  ' 
*Yia,  if  your  legs  nre  long  and  strong. 
'  This  oae'a  loag,  md  thij  one'i  strong ; 
Open  yoar  gat«i  as  high  ss  the  sky. 
And  let  King  George  and  me  pats  by.'  " 
Saint  was  not  unfrequently  substituted  for  kiaj. 
Wk.  Pbnqellt. 
Torquay, 

"The  Last  of  the  Plaxtasenets"  (4""  S.  vil. 
150,)— Your  correspondent  Mr.  Ward  is  in  error 
when  he  names  1839  as  the  date  of  the  publica- 
tion of  the  nbove  romance.  I  can  speak  on  this 
point  with  authority,  having  myself  assisted  in  its 
transcription  for  the  press  so  far  back  as  (I  be- 
lieve) 1820,  between  which  and  1820  it  was 
oriffinalli/  publiahed.  It  was  written  by  the  late 
William  Heaeltine,  a  gentleman  of  distinguished 
literary  attainments,  at  that  time  residing  at  Tur- 
ret Ilouse,  South  Lambeth,  heretofore  tne  home 
of  the  Tradescants,  whose  collection  of  curiosities 
WBS  the  wonder  of  the  age. 

Sesvick.  WiLLIAU  QASPEr. 

" ChXteauz  ek  EaPAaiiB "  (l'"  S.  vii.  158,) — 
Long  before  Francis  de  Sales  ive  And  the  pro- 
verb recorded ; — 

Thirleooth  Century. 
"Lora  fcTOs  chlaUaoa  en  Espaigop, 
Kcaunsjoieaeuoient, 
Tniit  cam  la  iras  fulolant 
Kn  U  pons^  delltable, 
Ou  il  n'n  fora  mmtonce  et  faWe." 
Gaillaame  de  LoniH,  Rob 
■ZiX. 
Fifteenth  Century, 
"Tout  i  pirt  moy,  en  mon  penser' aj'enolo", 

Kt  faia  chaatcaulx  en  Etpaigae  et  en  France; 
Uultre  las  monCa,  forge  mainle  ordonnanee  ; 
Chascun  Jour,  j'ay  plaa  de  mille  pnipi>9." 

Charles  d'OiWan?,  Ko/i<t 
Whence  the  saying  arose  is  a  point  which  has 
never  been  settled,  as  we  see  the  proverb  was  used 
as  far  back  as  the  thirteenth  century. 

Now,  in  the  fifteenth  century  we  find  "Cha- 
teaux eu  Asie,  chateaux  en  Albania." 
Fifteenth  century, 
"Et  le  sonxerfalt  ehasteaux  en  Aele; 
Le  grind  d^iir  la  chair  rassasie." 

Pietie  Gringoire,  Minus  propos, 
Je  vayt,  je  vlens,  la  trot  et  puis  le  pais 
Je  dia  nng  mot,  puia  aprts  je  le  iiye, 
Et  si  t>uiis  sans  TeiRte  ne  compas, 
Tout  fin  teullet  \r»  cbaatenux  d'Alb: 
LtVtrgtrifHimatur.'' 

Hence  it  would  ^ipear  that  the  eiprewioua 


:^le 


272 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  |;**s.Tn.MABci. 25,71. 


qaoted  above  meant  to  1>nild  castles  in  fonign  fiir- 
off  lands,  otherwise  to  feed  one's  nuQd  on  ully 
fande*.  Spain  being  nearer  and  more  known  on 
account  of  the  "  Cliuisoa  et  R£cits  de  Roland," 
"  Faiie  doe  ch&teaux  en  Espagne  "  prevuled  oret 
"Faire  des  chiteaux  en  Aaie,  en  Albanie." 

MiBCELLIK  -PiOMT. 
Batb. 

Da  Satb  OB  Sat  (4*  S.  tU.  123.)— Lamajv 
tim^  (Or.  Did.  glog.  et  crit.),  under  "  Say, 
Saja,  Sajum,  ou  Sadium,  a  parish  of  Normandy, 
<lioc  Slez,''  after  speaMOf;  of  the  church  and 
proper^  of  Say,  says : — 
"Pour  la  mabon  de  SiTt  eocore  ploa  connae  en  AiglC' 
efle  sst  ^Cdiiu  il  y  a  locgtems, 
U  g^^o^e  dans  U  bwonnufl 
de  Say.qni  viTOlt  win  GuilUumo  le 
fit  Ml  doulions  k  rAbbayi    '   " 


-On 

tf Angleterre,  h 

HutindnS^i 


1  de 

.   n 

ie  Montgommeri,  Tondatcut 

il  ]«  nuvlt  aa  Anglateire.    C'tst  ip- 

caase  de  Inl  oa  lie  qndque  autre  dc  nan 

■uni  dam  ee  pajn-Ik  un  lieu  appcl^  Say; 

_.  ..  .  a  Ie  Cotteuthi,  ce  que  quelquei  litres  font 

pi^muDT ;  et  en  ce  cas  it  panrroit  y  amr  eu  d«ux  fa- 
millea  de  S*y  ;  el  U  aeroit  an6  t  cnnn  que  Jonrdaiii  de 
Say,  qni  tonda  en  1181 1'Abbaye  d'Aunaj-,  aa  dioctoe  de 
Bayenz.  et  dontlafille,  AgutadeS^.^poniaRicbarddn 


paramment  a 
Mpeodant  on 


Hammet,  c 
familla  diffi 
dhtrMii  TAbbave 
d'Aigi 


attribae 


t  <5td   c 


le  an  Say  d'Aagleterre,  de  Gueoles  i  deux  Sieei 
<■■  »airi  »ur  quni  on  pantToir  VHiMtoirt  dt  la  Jlfaiim 
4'Hareiitirt,  lome  ii.  p.  1952,  et  t«me  4  dana  I'Appendice, 
p.  22." 

The  geographical  ntme  is,  without  doubt,  de- 
rived froA  Kiitm.  R.  S.  Chabboce. 

Grej'a  Iud  Sqnan, 

Presuming  your  correspondent  to  have  already 
searched  such  books  as  the  publications  of  the 
Pecord  Commission,  or  Sims's  Index  to  Pedigrtet, 
in  the  British  Museum,  for  meatiana  of  the  Ssy 
family,  I  can  inform  hiia  that  there  is  a  brass  to 
Sir  John  Say,  in  Broxbume  chuicb,  Hants  (a.d. 
1173),  and  also  a  curious  Latin  verse  inscription 
to  a  William  Say  in  Denchworth  church,  county 
Berks,  dfited  1493.  A  Thomaa  Sav,  Esq.,  accom- 
panied Sir  Arthur  Hyde,  of  the  latter  place,  to 
Irelimd  in  1580,  and  obtained  a  grant  of  6,77£ 
Acres  there.  Henry  de  Say  was  for  three  yeara 
sheriffforBerkshireinHBUtTlII.'sTeign.  Thomas 
Say,  Esq.,  held  the  same  office  under  Henry  VII. 's 
reign.  HxNXX  Babbt  Htdb,  Jen. 

si.  Edge  Lane,  UverpooL 

BlSMABCE  AimCIPAIBD  :  "  SrBWIKS  IK  THEIB 

oww  Gravt  "  (4"  8.  viL  187.)— The  French  have 
the  same  expresnou,  "  Cnire  dans  son  jus."  Talk- 
ioK  of  culinary  art,  a  great  epicurean  once  snid — 
"  Avec  nne  pareille  sauce  on  mangerait  sou  p6re  I " 


If  the  poor  Parisiana  could  hut  have  had  some  of 
it  daring  this  horrible  aegftAo  make  their  nauae- 
ona  food  somewhat  more  palatable  1        P.  A.  L. 

Is  not  the  proverb  equivalent  exactly  io  "fry- 
ing in  their  own  grease  "  P  If  so,  we  can  go  a 
little  further  baxJc  than  the  London  Spy. 

SiiakespeBie  has  two  allusons  to  it  in  Th» 
Merry  Woxm  (Olobe  edit.  u.  L  69,  and  m.  t. 
116.) 

John  Heywood  has — 

■  Sbe  trvtkh  in  hir^wne  grease,  bat  aa  for  my  parte 
If  aha  be  aneiy,  beahrew  her  aagry  baits." 

Datofmt,  &C.  I.  xl.,  Spenaer  Soc,  p.  87. 

Chaucer's  Wyf  of  BaOit  aK^a — 

"  Bnt  eertq'nly  I  made  folli  SDch  cbere. 
That  in  bii  owne  greaa  I  made  bim  (He 
For  angw,  and  for  verrale  jalooaia." 

/Wm«  d/  Wff  of  BaAt,  L  487, 
•d.  Moriis. 

JoHB  Ajidis. 
Rustington,  near  Littlebamptoo,  Sossex. 
I  think,  in  ditfering  forms,  this  saying  will  be 
found  as  old  as  the  uills,  and  that  some  of  tho 
classic  miners  into  the  domains 'of  heathendom 
may  send  ns  specimens  from  Plautus  or  Aristo- 
phanes. Shakapere  has  twice  availed  himself  of 
its  use  in  one  piny,  The  Merry  Wivet  of  Windtor. 
FalstafT  descriDsa  himself  as  nearly  in  that  plight 
in  hia  purgatory  of  the  buck-basket,  from  which  h« 
was  only  delivered  by  its  being  emptied  in  Uatcbet- 
mead.  But  the  closest  use  of  the  proverb  ha 
(Sbakspere)  puts  in  tbe  mouth  of  Ford's  wif«, 
who  thus  enei^tically  ezpresses  her  honest  ia- 
digttation  at  the  bold  prosigaCT  of  the  lascivious 
fat  lecher  to  her  gossip,  Mn.  I^gc : — 

"  What  tempest,  I  tiow,  Ibiew  this  whale  with  so  many 
tona  of  oil  in  bia  bellT  aahon  at  Windsor  1  How  ahall  I 
be  revenged  on  him  ?  I  tbink  the  best  way  were  to  en* 
tertain  him  with  hope,  till  tbe  mdud  fin  of  hat  Asm 
tmtUtd  kin  is  kit  dish  grtan." 

But,  certainly,  for  cool  heartleseness  of  applica- 
tion to  two  millions  of  suffering  fellow-creatures, 
Count  Bismark  has  mode  it  his  own  by  patent, 
unless  TMe  Timet  can  persuade  posterity  that  it 
was  only  the  frank,  open-hearted  pleasan^  of  the 
astute  German  Btatesroan,  with  which  he  loved  to 
season  hia  hard  sayings  to  those  who  he  considered 
'ere  at  his  mercy.  J.  A.  G. 

Cansbroolie. 

"  That  in  hia  owengrese  t  made  bim  frfeL" 

Chancer,  WifafBeVia  TiJe,  v.  6D69. 

Tbe  Satwday  Seview,  Jan.  SS,  1871,  in  an 
article  on  Ayrton,  says  uie  above  expreaeion  hia 
nmci  become  clasucal  I  J.  WnasiiELL. 

Ihkstaud  op  Wbdgwood  Waeb  (4**  S.  vii, 
ie3.)--These  dolphin-footed  inkstands  were  great 
favourites  at  one  time.  I  h»ve  had  two,  and  have 
just  been  looking  at  the  remains  of  one  of  them ; 
red,  vritb  Egyptian  derigns  in  black.  The  cavi^ 
of  the  hemispherical  body  used  to  be  filled  with 


4«s.tii.Masou26.71.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


273 


-wet  sponge  for  tbe  pnrpoM  of  wiping  the  pena 
tiuougb  the  smiUei  iiolas,  A  la^er  one,  ot 
i»tbw  socket,  was  for  the  reoepldon  of  ft  wftx 
taper.  A  stJll  Imieer  spertore  contained  a  pM^- 
fbrated  reaael  for  the  hlae  and  silTor  sand  once  in 
TOgne  for  drying  the  ink.  Tfae  central  receptacle 
for  the  Inttef  bad  usuallj  a  ping  to  raise  the  fluid 
1^  atmospheric  pretture. 

W,  J.  Bwnuxs  SanxBL 

Ladt  QjaMsmn'B  Osatz  a  Twrm  CmrBOH- 
TA&D  (4"  S.  Tii.  76,  128, 172.) — In  reference  to 
the  recent  correqtoodence  rsapecting  Ladf  Anne 
Oiinston'a  tomb  at  Tewin,  the  Serit  OuatiSim 
Btatea: 

"  In  Ekd  Cawpw'i  Perk,  Paubaaw,  on  mOe  fton 
Teitiii  churdi,  maj  ba  mn  anml  etonips  «f  nx  to  tan 
tnmka  of  ua-trea  miiaafag  ftom  (MM  root ;  aad  thi 
toDowiag  tma  tho  ibr(>  Gaonliia  of  Majr  ISth,  18««, 
■how*  that  Uioie  >i«  at  l«ait  two  can  of  tnca  growing 
out  of  tombatoDM  in  tho  looalltf  ofTawin— ^onr  milei 
(Mm  Hertford.  NidloiBg  the-damalition  of  8t  Andrew*! 
Old  Chnrch,  Hertford,  it  U  eUted :— '  Oa  lia  tooth  ride 
Uie  churcb  Is  a  tomb  after  tho  style  of  Lady  Anne  Grioi- 
■ton'l  at  Tewln  i  two  ajcMoore  trees  and  a  lot  oT  fooDg 
spiba  an  griming  oat  of  it,  and  bavo  diipUced  the  atoDO- 
work,  and  tnisted  and  broken  tbe  iron  isilingi :  ckne  by 
b  a  jonng  blrcb  tree  groiriiig  out  of  a  bnttreas,  and  it 
baa  poahed  awaj  the  oricknork.'  It  is  a  aabjecC  for 
regret  ibat  the  tomb  waa  oblige  to  be  demolisbed  to 
make  room  for  tbe  transept  of  tba  new  chnrcb.  Again, 
on  tbeaoatb  ride  of  Watford  cbarch  is  a  tomb  with  ■ 
flg-tree  growiag  out  of  the  interior;  and  tbera  1*  tbe 
auord  tale,  resembling  tbat  of  Ladv  Anna  Qrimstoo, 
that  the  lady  bnried  below  did  not  believe  in  a  Sopreme 
Bdngj  and  said  'if  there  was  a  God,  a  fix-tree  wonid 
mow  oat  of  her  heart.'  Thii  Sg-troa  baa  borne  (cniti 
bnt  no  wonder  tbat  tbe  Bgs  were  *  not  ve^  good  to  eat.' " 


(Longman  &  Co.,  1848),  it 

giutlj  of  a  rash  statement    Tlie  pasenge  is:— 

■*  The  adraolagca  of  military  science  and  disdptine 
cannot  be  eaerteil  unless  a  proper  number  of  soldiem  are 
united  into  one  bodf,  and  actuated  by  one  souL  With  a 
handfU  of  men  inch  sn  onion  would  ce  ineSectnal ;  witb 
an  unwieldy  host,  it  would  lie  impracticable;  and  tbe 
power*  at  (he  luacliinB  wmld  be  alike  destmyed  by  the 
extreme  minutentss  or  the  ezeeHdra  weight  of  its  spriugK 
To  illnstrato  this  obeervation,  wa  need  only  refleet  thirt 
there  is  no  aoperiarity  of  natural  slrentftb,  attiSdal 
weapona,  or  ocqaired  skill  which  conld  euble  one  nun 
to  keep  in  conitant  BBbJeetiim  one  hnndrsd  ot  his  MIew 
ereetnrea:  the  tyrant  of  a  single  town,  or  a  soian  district, 
would  soon  diaoorer  that  a  hondred  anned  bllowera  woe 
a  weak  defcnce  against  tan  thotttand  peesantaorcitiam; 
but  B  humdrtdHimiind  wall  dlaciplined  aoldien  will  cscn- 
mand  with  deapotis  sway  ten  mulioes  of  subfeeta,  and  a 
body  of  ten  or  fifteen  thonaaad  goardi  will  atrtte  tanor 
into  the  most  nnmerons  populace  tbat  ever  crowded  Iha 
streets  of  an  immeuse  capital." 

The  context  will  »baw  that  Mb.  Tzw's  qnot*- 
tion,  "an  hoitdred  disciplined  loldien,"  is  wrong. 

I  have  not  Fnllcc'  ij  me,  so  I  cannot  refer  to 


the  other  instauce.  If  I  conld  get  at  Tilnum 
Bredenach,  I  have  no  doubt  I  should  find  that 
Fnllei,  Uke  Mb.  Tew,  had  not  quoted  conectlj. 

["  But  Hit  laaulrtd  lioiaiaid  weU-diaciplined  aoldiaa," 
&c  This  is  tbe  text  of  Gibbon,  according  to  the  editiw 
"  wlUi  notes  and  a  mentoir  by  f .  A.  Giiizot.''t 

HiKPcmr  Famtit  (4*  S.  Tii.  189.)— Dr.  Han^ 
den,  the  late  Bishop  of  Hereford,  claimed  deaceot 
"from  a  junior  branch  of  the  same  stock  as  the 
patriot  John  Hampden."  {Memoriait  of.  Bitliap 
San^dtH,  p.  1.)  The  bishop's  ancestors  sie  said 
to  have  left  England  at  the  Bestoration,  and  to 
have  settled  with  other  parliamentAir  families  in 
the  Weat  Indies.  The  assertion,  or  fatnilj  tradi- 
tion, or  whatever  it  may  be  called^  deserves  some 
consideration,  ioasmnch  as  the  bishop's  brothel^ 
John  Hampden  of  Leamington  (who  died  in 
1860)  was  an  antiq^narj  of  some  repute,  and  had 
doubtless  investigated  tbe  point.  G.  J,  B. 

A  brandi  of  this  hunilj  (of  which  the  late 
Begins  Professor  was  one)  flourished  in  Bar- 
bados, and  the  name  was  on^nally  spelt  without 
the  p,  but  that  letter  was  afterwards  assumed. 
In  an  old  black-letter  account  of  Buckinghom- 
ahire,  the  great  patriot's  name  is  ^ven  without 
the  ji;  and  can  ^ou  inform  me  which  ie  the  att- 
rect  way  of  filing  it  P  Thwe  must  he,  I 
maoj  of  his  signatnres  remaining,  bnt 
Tar;,  like  Shakspeare'a. 

Heraldic  (4*  S.  vi  46a)— The  arms  which 
W.  H.  M.  C.  wishee  to  identify- Azure,  a  oow 

Ettde  between  four  fleurs-de-lis  or — piohahlj 
long  to  some  famil;^  of  Ward  in  Cheshire.  The 
arms  of  Ward  of  Coplestone,  Co.  Chester^— B,  a 
cross  patt^  0. — are  borne  with  rarions  difltiencM 
and  augmentations  hy  several  families  of  tbat 
name.  The  nearest  approach  to  the  blazon  given 
in  "N.  &  Q."  that  I  have  been  able  to  find  is, 
Atnre,  a  cross  pattfe  ermmoi*  between  four  fleurs- 
de-lis  or.  Beysblby  R.  Bslts, 

librarian  of  Columbia  College. 
SAifPLHist  RiT.  Jomr  Newton  (i*  a,  vL 
500;  vii.  21,  126,  220.)  — The  lines  given  by 
J.  A.  Pif.  were  composed  by  the  late  Rev.  Joun 
Newton  &r  the  sampler  of  bis  niece.  Miss  Elizft- 
l>eth  Catlett  As  such  they  have  been  handed 
down  and  worked  in  our  family  for  his  ealse.  My 
grandmother  was  hononted  with  the  friendiship  of 
this  excellent  man  during  his  later  years  while 
rector  of  St  Mary  Woolnoth,  London,  and  I  ha;TO 
G&en  beanl  her  children  recall  with  pleaaore  the 
ffenial  j^yfalness  whidi  made  him  popular  with 
ue  young,  and  indeed  with  all  who  knew  him. 
He  ever  ^eavoiued,  too.  to  cmvey  and  fix  somtt 
profitable  thooght  l^  all  Us  venes  and  inier- 
eonne.  Several  inataooea  at  these  may  be  fenml 
appended  to  a  little  volume  of  letters  he  addreesed 


maj 


274 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[("■S.  VII.  Maeck  25,1 


to  the  Bbove-namad  relativa  (1779-1783),  entitled 
Tweaty-One  Letter*  ■writtea  to  a.  near  Selalive  at 
School  (London,  66,  SL  PauI's  Churchjftrd). 

I  should,  however,  add  that  our  copy  of  the 
lines  Tories  in  a  flight  degree  from  those  worked 
b;  Arabella;  the  second  line  was  eTidentl;  al- 
tered to  suit  her  own  name.     Our  lines  ataud 

"  Jesna,  peimit  Tby  pracioua  Name  to  il»inl, 
Ai  thtfirlt  ^vrt  ofoti  w/unC.  hand; 
Aod. while  bet  fingers  o'at  the  cmivsm  more. 
Engus  ber  laider  tbonghU  to  uek  Tbj  lore ; 
With  Thy  dear  cbiUien  let  bar  hsTB  ■  pirt, 
And  aritt  Thy  Namt,  Thyitlf,  upon  her  htart." 

S.  SI.  S. 


BOTES  ON  BOOKS.  BTC. 

Samblei  of  en  Atchitol 

Ptaea ;  bang  Poptri  , 

Painting,  Art  DtamtllBn,  aiuf  Art  Mmafacture.  Bf 
Frederick  Willi«m  Fairbolt.  F,S.A.  Illialraltd  «(* 
269  fFood  Eiigranins'-  (Virtue  4  Co.) 
The  tate  Mr.  Fairholt  was  not  only  a  pdndabing  aod 
well-iDformcd  iDtiqiiiry,  but  an  accurate  and  iccom- 
pliihed  draflsmin.  bo  that  whm  he  brought  bli  pen  and 
ptiicil  to  bear  on  any  sutiject,  tbe  eombinallon  of  arclue- 
ologieal  knowledge  and  artistic  skill,  as  in  tbe  oase  of  bis 
Diethnars  of  Outnu,  was  attended  with  th«  happieat 
resalta.  This  was  strongly  exemplifled  in  Krenl  ia- 
tarestiiig  series  of  pspen  wbkli  he  oonimnnlcated  to  77it 
Art  Jotinud!  and  we  agree  with  the  editor  of  the  book 
before  ns,  Ibat  the  merit  and  value  of  these  Essays — ttis 
nsalt  of  so  much  labour  and  research— entitle  them  to  a 
more  lasting  form  than  is  affi>rded  in  th«  pages  of  a 
masaiine.  Bomaidaaof  tlie  varielyofinlareatinggoadp 
infte  iMOkroay  be  formed  itam  a  glance  at  its  contents. 
After  ao  opening  Essay,  in  wliich  He.  Fairbolt  treats  of 
abnost  every  department  of  Ornamental  Art,  there  ii  a 
GnriOQS  paper  **0a  Grotcecjue  Deei;ni  as  ezbiblted  in 
Ornamental  and  Induitrial  Art"  Ttda  is  followed  by 
"Facta  about  finger  Ringi,"  and  an  eesay  "  On  Ancient 
Broodies  and  Dren  Fastenings ; "  and  tbe  book  ends  with 
a  pleasant  article  on  "Albert  DUnr;  )iis  Works,  fais 
Companions,  and  bis  Hmes;"  while  nearly  SOO  Ilins- 
tratlons  add  at  once  to  the  interest  and  value  of  the 
letter  press.  We  an  promised  a  second  volnme,  and 
we  shall  welcome  II,  and  even  more  cordially  if  it  is  ae- 
eompsnied  by  what  tbe  book  will  really  reqolie— a  good 

Cromland  atid  Burgh,  A  Light  o»  the  HiUoriam  <nd  o» 
llu  Hittort/  of  Croaland  Abb^ !  and  «  Actoynt  of 
(*i  Mmaitery  at  flarjA  (aiw  Peleiionmgli)  hi  Pro- 
Kirmait  Tima,  and  to  lAs  Tmh  of  King  Stdiard  Iht 
FInt  (1193).  By  Henry  Scale  English.  In  Thrtt 
Voliima,     (Longmana) 

Tlie  work  before  ns  famishes  fTtah  proof,  if  that  were 
needed,  of  tbe  truth  of  Wordsworth's  dictum,  that  the 
child  Is  father  of  the  man.  In  his  piefkce  Ur.  English 
states,  with  reftrence  to  a  somewbat  dmllar  elFort  tliat 
appeared  in  18S0 :  "  That  Book  dots  the  Writer  very  little 
credit.  I  am  sure  he  owes  hnmble  apologies  to  any  one 
who  bonoared  it  with  a  perusal,  fbr  it  was  Itadiy  ar- 
ranged, fUl  of  miitake*,  and  the  meaning  sometimes  so 
awlcwudly  expressed,  that  the  aigumenta  (such  as  they 


were)  were  not  proporiy  nnderatood.  The  Author  of  <fta< 
book,  who  baa  3Ln<»  had  more  than  sufficient  time  for 
reflection,  bus  cow  written  thtst ;  the  snbjects  are  often  the 
lanc,  but  be  hs4  aToidcd  a  great  namber  of  the  mistakes 
wbich  diagiaccd  the  book  of  IS30."  This  we  think  forms 
■  very  fair  criticism  of  the  volumes  whose  title  we  have 
Ira  ascribed  above. 

Books  nacEivan.  —  Pfrei-a  of  Iht  Peal.  Bg  Sic 
Waiter  Scott ;  being  Vol.  XV.  of  the  Centenary  tfdilioit 
ef  the  Wmtrley  Xovd:  (A  &  C  Black.)  We  can  do 
little  more  than  chronide  the  regalarity  with  which  tbe 
volnmes  of  this,  certainly  Ibe  most  complete  edition  of 
Scott's  admirable  fictions,  are  brought  before  the  world. 
— Pmjbi  in  Oti  Craven  Dialect.  By  Tom  Twisleton. 
Seeond  EdUion.  (Wiidmsn  Settle.)  We  can  well  on- 
derttand  wbv  these  little  poems,  written  in  the  Craven 
dialect,  sbould  be  popular  in  tbe  district  to  wbich  they 
belong;  they  luve  a  pleasant  cheery  ring  about  them^-^ 
FbO-Songand  FoO-Spieek  of  Laneruhire  m  the  Balladt 
and  Sangi  of  the  County  Falatint,  with  Sola  oa  &e  Dia- 
lectt  in  tpAi'cA  many  of  them  an  uiriOtn,  and  an  Appendix 
on  Loncatkire  loU  Lore.  By  W.  E.  A.  Axon,  F.R.SX. 
&e.  (Tnbbe  &  Brwok,  Manchester.)  A  small  but  vala- 
able  addition  to  tbe  now  long  list  of  works  on  EngUsIi 
Dialects  and  Folk  Lore. 

Death  or  Propejisob  Db  Molioa:(.— Our  readers 
will  hear  with  deep  regret  of  the  death  of  Ihii  aceom- 
piisbed  gentleman,  who  was  for  many  years  a  frequent 
contributor  to  thise  columns,  which  took  place  on 
Saturday  last.  FroleBsor  de  Morgan,  who  tias  been  fbr 
many  years  intimately  connected  with  University  Col- 
I^a.  London,  was  bom  at  Madura  tn  Southern  India  in 
1806,  and  coming  to  England  proceeded  to  Trinity  Col- 
lege, Cambridge,  where  be  took  his  B.A.  decree  in  1827, 
being  foorth  wrangler,  Mr.  Gcasby,  now  a  Baron  of  the 
Eachequer,  being  the  third  wrangler  of  that  year.  On 
leaving  Cambridge,  Mr.  de  Morgan  entered  at  Lincoln's 

I —  — J  -inimenoed  bis  legal  studiia,  but  al ' 

terwards  abandoned  tliem  on  '  ' 
.  the  Profeeioiship  of  Matliematics  in  i 
London.  Since  that  time  he  has  wrillea  IsTgelv  on  th 
principlea  and  history  of  mathematics,  aa  well  al  o 
arithmetic,  algebra,  trigonometry,  double  algebra,  the  dif- 
ferential calculus,  thecalcutusof  functions,  the  theory  of 
probabilities,  Lfe  eoDtingaDcie^  the  gnomonic  projection, 
Ibrmil  logic,  has  l>een  a  very  large  contribotor  to  TJu 
Alhemaim,  where  the  series  entitl^  ■•  A  Bundle  of  Para- 
doxes," created  a  considerable  sensation,  and  wrote  also 
many  papers  in  The  Traniactioiu  of  iht  Cainbridgt  Philo- 
lophical  Societg.  He  was  a  fellow  of  the  Boyal  Astro- 
nomical Sodetp,  and  for  eighteen  yean  one  of  its 
eecietaries. 

Death  op  Robeut  CBAxnEKs,  LL.D, — Scotland  has 
lost  a  BOD  to  whom  sbe  owes  a  large  debt  of  gratitude. 
Robert  Chambere  died  on  tbe  17th  mstant,  in  tbe  sixty- 
ninth  year  of  bis  age.  Not  only  will  he  t»e  long  remem- 
bered as  the  author  of  many  valuable  woriu,  npedally 
illustrative  of  the  biatory  and  lileratnre  of  bia  natire 
country,  but  for  the  share  which  he  bad  with  bia  elder 
brother  William  in  the  production  of  the  popular  journal 
which  bore  their  name,  and  tbe  appearance  of  which,  be 
it  remembered,  preceded  (hat  of  the  Penny  Magazine  by 
six  weeks.  The  books  written  by  Robert  Chambers,  like 
those  of  his  DO  less  distingoished  brother  William,  form  a 

A  HisTosr  OF  THE  WsALD  OF  Kkbt,  With  an  out- 
line of  the  Eariv  History  of  the  Couatv,  bv  Robert  Far- 
ley, F.SA ;  also,  a  Sketch  of  the  Physicat  Features  of 
the  District,  by  Uen^  B.  Haokeaon,  F.Q.S,  ia  two 
volumes,  is  announced  for  early  publication. 


ID  largely  on  the 


<■  s.  vn.  MiRru  25, -TiO  NOTES  AND  QUEEIES.  275 

■    NoMW.— For  Rovd  si  a  heal  Bonn.  («  "  N.  &  Q."  3'J 
S,  xi.  4U,  49*. 

Rev.  E.  L.   H,  Tew,  B.A.—T/ii  Ree.  Dr.  Walker  of 

Londomlerty  icai  only  a  bithnp  daigaalt,  tee  "  N.  &  Q." 

For  mtictt  of  &t  Rev.  Joha  Etarn,  lee 


BALLnon  Lkttbrs.— Mcun.  Letts  of  tha  Royal  Ex- 
changs  hsve  jtut  isined  aa  admirable  rac-smita  of  a 
BallooD  Let(«r,a3a  huting  memorial  of  (he  late  unhappy 

The  Old  Rivhr  Wall.— It  may  be  as  well  to  place 
on  reeord  in  "  N.  A  Q."  (say»  a  valued  oorrespondeni' 
tbat  during  the  trenching  operationa  b[  prcEenl  coing  i 
In  the  Inner  Temple  Garden,  pari  of  the  founi&tiDna 
tbU,  the  old  fraatage  of  tbe  Thames,  liare  been  laid  bar 
They  are  in  a  right  line  with  the  old  tree  tinder  which 
Johnson  and  Goldsmith  uied  to  meet,  The  usua"  ' 
jectamenCa"  found  in  breaking  old  grnnnd  in  London 
hare  turned  up — fragments  of  grey  bearda  and  of  glosa, 
old  pipea,  the  so-called  "pipes"  used  for  curling  wigA.aQd 
vMterday  (March  20)  porliona  of  two  human  skeletons 
'These  were  about  five  feet  below  the  garden  Inrf  on  th 
Qntside  of  the  wall,  and  were  no  doubt  Ihoaa  of  person 
drowned  in  the  Thames  and  embedded  in  its  mud.  They 
-at  of  fragments  of  the  cranium,  vertebrte,  pelria,  and 


the  halve 


Don  Qcixote.— It  is  said  that  Don  Fsblin  Hernandez, 
of  Santander,  a  KelMinown  bibliopole,  is  abont  to  pub- 
lish ■  new  edition  from  the  original  MS.  of  Cervantes, 
which  he  is  reported  to  have  had  the  good  fortune  to 
discover. 

M.  Bec«vf.rei_— The  death,  at  the  age  of  eighlr.  of 
this  celebrated  electrician  la  reported.  He  died  In  Nor- 
maadj  during  the  eiege  of  Paris. 

LlCKpiKLD  Catitedbat, — "  A  Wall  painting,"  saya 
The  Buildtr,  "has  been  recently  discovered  at  the  east 
end  of  the  aouth  aide  of  the  choral  aisle,  a  portion  of  the 
edifice  which  ia  thoaght  to  have  been  a  chapel  dedicated 
to  SI.  Chad.  Tbe  existence  of  other  illnminaliona  in  the 
immadlale  vicinity  of  the  picture  would  Qx  it  ai  a  sped- 
rnen  of  the  art  in  the  thirteanth  century.  The  anbject  ia 
the  CmcifixioD,  the  centre  figure  being  Christ  upon  the 
Cross.  Tbe  groundwork  la  of  a  greenish  tint,  -studded 
with  white  stars.  The  predominating  colour  of  the 
drapery  of  the  figures  is  a  llghtlah  red,  the  Croaa  alao 
being  of  that  colour.  In  some  of  Ita  details  (he  painting 
b  cnrioua,  if  not  grotcaque.  An  inscription  in  doubtfU 
be  traced  on  Ifae  wreath." 


thcnntEcmui  by  whamlt  lar«iiiilTed.wbD«c  nuMiuidik 


fiotUci  to  €imtifon^tnU. 

S.  E.  L.  {Xlelhitold  ErgUter.y—Wt  do  not  know  into 
tthatcomtj/  jtoper*  it  nay  hatt  brtn  cnpltd,  but  it  icai 
pmrterfiB-S.  &Q."o/A'oo.  6(o«(,  p.  384. 

W.  H.  S.—Loumdet'  BIbliogmnher,  aid  all  the  ncent 
editiant  nf  Sliaieiptart,tluniilht  data  of  iht  _firit  prbtling 
ofaettrtralplas*. 

Baoptpbs. — J.  S.  (Edinburgh)  ih<»td  mtuuft  Chap- 
pelFt  Music  of  tbe  Olden  Time  ami  the  aulhonlla  Oiere 


"Fori 


iciiplion  in  our  1"  S.  li.  Ma,  a 


,  blest  shade,  the  tributary 
will  find  the  hiMlorg  n/  thi 


Ihit  pfmtlai 


I  and  Sevent "  is  noticed  in  our 


2°"  3. 1, 

oin- 1"  3,  V.  611 !  S'J  3.x 

W.P.— TTSipiTma-Si. 
I"  S.  iii.  118,  i-23. 

ItoOERS  Famii.t.—  We  tni 

EuiLV  ttillfindthe  phra, 
"  The  TicaDoji"  ofBura: 

Erkata.— At  pacea  160,  178,  and  24.1  of  the  present 
volume /or  "  J.  G.  Waller  "  rtad  "  1.  G,  WalUr." 

Mh.  WiLUAH  Bates.  — X  Girretpondent  tlatt)  that 
he  cannot  find  the  rin'ew  of  the  third  leria  ofEitayi  on 
Natural  Hietory."  I.g  George  WattHon,  alluded  to  by 
you  in  jmar  article  on  Ectlatlfi  (p.  193)  m  Ftaafr's  Maga- 
zine for  Dectmber,  185S,  WVl  you  iindh  Mel  the  malhr 
right? 

Ot'B  CoBRESroKDEITTS  alll,  vje  tm$t,  ercule  our  ng- 
geiling  to  thim,  both  for  their  taia  ae  well  at  o»r  oum — 

I.  Tbat  thtg  ihauld  write  clearly  and  rfirtiacHy— and  on 
—  aids  of  the  paper  only — more  eipeeiaffv  proper 


•inrf  words  and  p 


- -es  o/» 

required.     We  cannot  uitderla, 
rcMpondtHt  doa  not  think  worth  'the  (i 
pl^nlf. 

II.  7%iltoalltemmvniealiBnMihBaldl,tnpixtdthenamt 
and  addrcti  of  tiu  tender,  net  neceuarily  for  publication, 
butat  a  guarantee  of  good  faith, 

in.  TJiat  Quotations  thatdd  be  verified  by  prtate  rt- 
ferencea  to  edition,  chapter,  ttnd  page ,-  and  ryertnctt  to 
"S.ltii."  by  teriet,viJ.ame,altdpage. 

IT.  Qirretpondtntt  vho  reply  to  Qiuriet  mould  add  to 
their  obligation  by  prtcitt  rrftrtnce  to  iwfinH  and  page 
where  tuch  tpienet  are  to  be  found.  Th*  omiition  la  do 
(hit  tavet  the  writer  eery  little  trouble,  but  tntailt  tawft  to 
tupply  tuch  omUihat. 


PORTRAIT  COLIECTOBS.  — JoHM  Steksoit 


rro 

J,  Iu>RdMedllienkeiifbliSTpFgrtnluft«B«AUS<teiicli.iuiil 
I'i.  °^'  Esinnd  PoRiWi  In  Uke  mvaotlMn.  Fleaa  otiln  frsm 
EVAHa^  CiTAUWUB,  R  from  miswiiIJiti.Tla.  PuUBe.«l,U, 
ud  am  Twit  fT  aI^A^TICAT.  ^ATA^CE.-JOBN  BTiS^ 


FABTBISQE    AND    COOPEB, 

MANDFACrURING  STATIONERS, 
1*3,  Fleet  Stre<t  (Comer  ofChanoery  Lane). 


X)  THE  OOUVTRy  O] 


THE  TEMPLE  El(VEIX>FE,w 


|h  IDDV  Flip.  ll.  pu  W 


OMUBBD  WTAUmia  (IIMM>.  ndaeed  t*  4i.  Sd.  ptr  nan,  or 
u.  U.  per  IMS-  FoUiktd  iutl  Cna  INh  mnTed  fnm  in. 
HenoRuMnlMMn.  OMB  ti.illineMUn.ftoiBTl.    BulHH 


U  AUsBi,  u.,  part     , 


NOTES  AJfD  QUEBIES.  t*'»S-^iL  m.v=o..25.7K 


ATOUK     ROUND    HY    GARDEN. 
Bt  ALPHOSSB  KAJtB. 
EdlWfclUnBEV.J.O.WOOD.M.A.    Wllh  IIT  fflmn^Mi. 
"A  book  o(   dMH   iilJlii»jpbfj.  ilm-lin,  »hiil  ^wniymMfcM  Ui* 
Cie»«or uiartilM tot wmmt of  difcmt "■""L" ""■-.  „. ^ 


RAMBLES  9f  an  ABCHJBOXOeiST  AKOSO 
OLD  BOOKS  and  in  OLD  PLACES : 


id  FlftT-Blju  W»d 


SKINNER.— £10  REWARD. 


MR.  BULLOCK  respeotfolly  anooiincM  for  SALE  at 
Ua  HiiiM.111.  Hlill  Holbom,  on  FriAw.  HhcIi  11.  it  If  tot  1.  Uit 


THE   iraw   VBLLTTM-WOVB   CIiITB- 
HOTT8E  FAFEB. 


^SSi^lo^Sd^MM^li^UrfMK?  'bMhm.  PuTUMa  k'coopu, 
ue.  n»  1HV  ivB  is  bcAatlfoUr  vui*<  In  wriHs  >•  ■■  Biwh  u 


"OLD  ENGLISH"  FURNITURE. 


COMiINSOH  and  LOCK  [late  Herring), 

GABUTBT  MAKTiSS, 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  E.G    EsUblubed  178S. 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANG/NGS. 


COIJJK8077  and  LOCK  (late  Herrins}) 
DECOBATOBB. 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  LONDON.  EaUbliBhed  17W. 


TEE   OI.D   DBAHATISTS 
THE    OLD   POETS. 


BEAUMONT  uid  FLBTCEER.    2  toU.  32s. 

HASSINQEB  and  FORD.    ISi. 

BEN  JONSON.    1S«. 

■WTCHE31LET,  COHQEEV^  VAHBHUGH,  and 

'ASQUIIAB.    Km. 

GREENE  and  PEELE.     16*. 
SHAKESPEABE.    WithPlateibT  JoKKQii.BmT. 
JOHN  WEBSTER.    12*. 
CHRISTOPHER  MAHLOWE,  12#. 


The  (Hd  Poets. 

SPENSER.     10».  6d.         ,    DBTDEN.     IOj.  6d. 
CHAUCER.     lOj.  ad.        I    POPE.     IOj.  6d. 


OHT7BCH    TUBITITITBE. 


LIKEir,  SUBfUCES.  ud  SOBES, 
lie.  FJinuanaTICAL.  Md  KlIBLGMATICAI. 

FliAOB  Hdd  BAjnfBBS,  kA  ttc 
A  Caulecuc  mt  br  voit  on  ■ppUcntloa. 


TNDIGESTION.— THE  MEDICAL  PROFESSION 

Oemi  dumlu,  ud  tbfl  ManuhDtBTfTi.  TfJOHA^  lloRSUN  Jt  SON. 
IN,  SvuUuiniitiiii  Qdw.BuikU  Sqian,  LosdDB, 


D  INDIGESTIONi  ind  Iho  to 


SAUCE.— LEA    AND    PERKINS. 


UimiVALLBD  JOB  PIHD4MCT  AlTD  I'LATOOTL 

Aak  for  "  I.HA  AITD  PBBBUffB'"  SAnOB. 
BEWARE     OF    IMITATIONS, 


':^SiSi^&^^'^^.  . 


4'1'S.VII.  Apb[l!,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


277 


LOimOS,  BATVM>AT,  AFKIl  1, 


MOTE3:~The  AutobiMnphj  at  Lord  Brougham:  Urs. 
Mlghtinralc'i  Tomb,  Wf  —  On  tho  Absence  of  mj 
French  word  dcniljing  "to  ■Und,"  £IB— CbmtMrtoniua, 
lb.  —  Barker  uid  Burford'i  PMionmu.  27*  —  Lord  Camp- 
bell's "Life  of  Lord  IjDdhnnrt "  —  Old  CusEoma  at 
C»thedr»l«,  ko.  —  Ourioui  BplUvh  — LoKeritT  — Rail- 
viy  Hatch  —  Hiitor;  ropnttng  tlwlt— Artburiau  LooaJi- 
tiaa  — Alnce  and  Lomlne,  ISO. 

QUEBIES:  — l>ui;dale'a  "Hiatoiy  of  Bt.  Paul's  Oatbe- 
dral."  281  — Arabio  Numerals  in  Wells  Cathedral  —  St  r 
Bobert  Boyls  —  Burff  —  Clergy  In  Slepnv  Paiish  atter 
1«SD—  CDnaeoratiOD  of  Retjlmental  Coloon  —  Lord  and 
Lady  Donie— F^ry  Chang^nga— John  Fell,  Blihop  of  Oi- 
ford— Hane8eOai;Ui<aii<rTboiUHLa{ip*ge— HennVIII. 

BookoTCom- 
Bir  Aleiander 


Thomson"— Old  Voluntcw  Corpa       „ 

Welsh  Wedding  Custom —  Mis.  Catberlae  Zephyr,  iAt. 

&BPLIEB :  —  Longs  and  Pslmera  of  Bath,  £g5  —  "  Whether 
or  no,"  288  —  "  Baron"  Nicholson.  /J,  — The  Bwan.Song 
of  Parson  Avoir,  2*8  —  Marriage  of  Euglish  Prliiccwea  — 
Industries  or  England  —  Bash  Btstcments— Why  dors  a 
nenly  bom  Child  cry  f— King's  Collegs,  New  York  —  Ure. 
Downing  —  Chepstow  —  Bstrlgboler  —  Descendants   of 
iaetaj  Taylor  —  Hair  growing  after  Dcatii  —  Uoor  Park 
-Clan  Hac&lpln  -  Babies'  Bells-Latter  rrooi  OliTer 
Cromwell,  ISU  —  "TbeOniy  Taka'  — Cryptography — 
Bacon'aQaeoD's  OomiMlsblp— Pigeon  Poal— Itobert  Fits- 
barneys,  or  Hu^eis  —  "Bt  facere  ° ------ J-  -  *--      "^- 

Print  of  Guldo'a  "  Aurora,"  Jtc,  28S. 

Motes  OD  Book*,  ha. 


filter. 
THE  ADTOBIOC-RAPHT  OP  LORD  BROUGHAM : 


The  first  yolume  of  the  autobiography  of  this 
distiDguuhedmatiJuat  isaned  from  the  press,  con- 
tains ft  few  anecdotes  and  atatementE,  the  accuracy 
of  which  ia  more  than  doubtfu].  No  one  would 
for  a  moment  impute  to  the  noble  author  any 
-wilful  miastatement  or  intention  to  deceive. 
Those  who  have  enjoyed  the  company  of  die 
veteran  atatesman,  orator,  and  philooopher  will 
liiig«  with  pleaaun  on  ue  reiaembrance  of  the 
copious  flow  of  language,  the  rich  atorea  of  anac- 
dote,  uid  the  vast  variety  of  aulijects  poured  out 
\n  the  "  old  man  eloquent " ;  but  if  a  man  defera 
f£e  writing  of  hie  memcnra  until  nearly  ninety 
yean  of  age,  when  the  memory  moat  have  failed 
to  some  extent,  and  the  judgment  haa  lost  its 
vigour,  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  events  in 
the  far  distant  perspective  of  early  life  become  so 
confused  and  mmgled  together  in  the  mind  n  to 
lead  in  many  cases  to  distortion  and  miatshe. 

The  Saturday  Reoiaw  was  the  first  to  call  atten- 
tion to  the  tale  "Meumon ;  or.  Human  Wisdom," 
p.  58  of  the  memoirs,  given  bj  Lord  Brougham 
as  a  spedmea  of  his  eaxly  composition,  which  is 
really  a  tronabtion  from  Voltaire.  The  story 
given  at  p.  201  <^  an  agreement  with  his  college 

niend  G ,  written  in  their  blood,  that  which- 

«ver  died  fint  should  appear  to  the  otlier,  and 


the  apparition  of  the  ghost  of  Q—  consequent 
thereon,  veir  mnch  resembles  a  seaattioinl  tale 
of  Edgar  AUan  Poe.* 
Hv  object  at  present  is  to  notice  an  anecdote 
crioed  oy  Lora  Brougham  to  his  &tiier  (p,  205), 
which  the  narrstor  aaya  "his  unbelieving  i^ 
stinacy  had  been  the  means  of  demobahing  what 
would  have  made  a  very  pret^  ghost  story  ;  — 
"He  bad  dined  one  da;  In  Daan's  Yard,  Wc«tminater, 
with  a  psrtv  of  jouof:  men,  one  of  whom  was  his  inti- 
inale  friend'Mr.  CalnieL  There  was  some  talk  alioul  the 
death  of  a  Mrs.  Nightingale,  who  had  recently  died  under 
some  metancholT  ciicnmstances,  and  had  been  tbat  dajr 
buried  in  the  Abbey.  Someone  ofthe  part;  offered  to  bet 
that  nooce  of  those  present  would  go  down  Into  the  grave 
and  drive  a  nail  into  the  coffin.  Calmel  accepted  the 
wager,  only  Btinnlating  that  he  might  have  a  lanthom. 
He  was  accordinglv  let  into  the  catiiedral  by  a  door  oat 
of  tJie  elolsten,  and  then  left  to  himself  The  dinner 
party,  after  waitiug  sn  hour  or  more  for  Calmel,  beean 
to  think  something  must  have  happened  to  him,  and  that 
he  ought  to  be  loolied  after;  so  my  father  and  tiro  or 
three  more  got  a  light,  and  went  io  the  grave,  at  the 
bottom  of  which  lay  the  apparently  dead  body  of  Mr. 
Calmel.  He  was  quickly  transportad  to  the  prebend's 
dining-room,  and  recovered  out  of  his  fainting  fit.  As 
soon  as  he  could  find  bis  tongue  he  said, 'Well,  1  won 
my  wager,  and  tduH  find  the  nail  in  the  coffin ;  but, 
by  Jove  I  the  laify  rose  np,  laid  bold  of  me,  and  pulied  me 
down  before  I  could  scramble  out  of  the  grave.  Calmel 
ituck  ia  bis  story  in  tpita  of  all  the  scoffing  of  lus  Mends ; 
and  tbe  ghost  of  Mrs.  Nightingale  would  h&vc  been  alt 
over  tbe  (own  but  for  my  father's  obstinate  incredulity. 
Nothing  wonld  satisfy  him  but  an  ocular  inspection  of  Che 
grave  and  coffin  ;  and  so,  getting  a  Hght,  he  and  somo  of 
tbe  party  returned  to  the  grave.  'There,  sure  enongb, 
was  the  nail  well  driven  into  Uie  coffin,  bat  hard  fixed  t^ 
it  was  a  bit  of  Mr.  Calmel's  ooat-tail  I  So  there  was  an 
end  of  Mrs.  Kightingnle'a  gbost.  This  pave  afterwards 
became  remarkable  for  a  very  beautiful  piece  of  sculp- 
ture by  some  celebrated  artist,  representing  Mr.  Night- 
ingale vainly  attempting  to  ward  from  his  dying  wlfb  the 
dart  of  death." 

This  of  course  alludea  to  the  celebrated  monu- 
ment by  Rouldliac  in  the  north  transept  of 
Westminster  Abbey.  A  similar  story  has  been 
freqnently  laid  with  a  change  in  the  locality  and 
in  ^e  dramatii  pertonie.  As  applied  in  the  pre- 
sent case,  one  might  remark  on  tbe  inherent 
improbability  of  the  whole  narrative — the  open 
grave  or  vault  in  the  Abbey ;  the  idea  of  a  person 
left  to  himself  to  ramble  about  the  building  at 
midnight  without  any  attendant ;  the  church  left 

Xn  for  the  royaterers  to  go  io  and  out  as  they 
laed.  But  the  simplert  answer  to  the  whole 
IS  the  fact  that  Mre.  Jflghldngale  died  on  August 
17,  1734,  and  that  LoiS  Brougham's  father  was 
bom  in  June,  1742 — eight  years  after  the  tran- 
saction in  which  he  is  alleged  to  have  performed 
so  prominent  a  part.  It  is  not  difficult  to  con- 
jecture how  Lord  Brougham  was  led  into  the 
mistake.  As  a  boy  he  had  doubtless  heard  the 
story  told  by  his  father,  which  would  naturally 
— '■"  -  deep  impreaaion  on  his  youthful  mind. 


Iiooking  beck  through  the  dim  vista  of  oighty|(^ 


278 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


14'»S.V1I-APEU.1,  ■ 


yean'  memor;,  it  wm  Tet;  natunl  to  id«DtifT  Hs 
father  as  the  hero  aa  w^  aa  the  narrator  of  tha 
ioddmit. 

Aj  a  comiterpart  to  the  rimilar  miatake  aa  to 
the  stoi;  of  Memnon,  it  maj  be  worth  preserriiig 
in  the  pages  of  "  N.  &  Q."  J.  A.  Picroir. 

Sand^BOwa,  WaTSrtrca,  dmt  LirerpooL 


ON  THE  ABSENCE  OF  ANT  FEENCH  WORD 
SIGNIFYING  "TO  STAND." 

I  do  not  daim  it  as  an  obaerratioD  of  my  own, 
but  I  ofFet  the  following  as  one  made  to  me  the 
other  day  by  a  friend,  whom  I  shail  not  name, 
hut  only  say  that  he  is  one  highly  accomplished  in 
literature  and  well  known  in  public  life.  It  was 
new  and  intereeting  to  me,  and  may  probably  be 
reearded  in  the  same  liglit  by  many  readers  of 
"N.&Q." 

He  stated  that  the  French  laognage  alone, 
among  all  other  languages,  had  no  word  in  it  ex- 
preasiTe  of  the  word  "to  stand."  This  is  cer- 
tainly a  very  remarkable  fact  in  the  way  of 
etymology. 

Opening  lUchardson'BiTtctwNdry  I  obserred  the 
dnek,  Latin,  Dutch,  German,  end  Swedish  equi- 
Went  to  tiie  word,  but  nothing  in  the  French. 

BeinKCurious  to  see  how  the  verb  was  managed 
in  the  French  version  of  the  Bible  and   Testa- 


minister."  The  French  is  "  afin  qu'U  assiste  pour 
fdre  le  service."  We  all  know  that  the  French 
"  asNster  "  has  a  far  more  general  and  lesa  dis- 
tioct  meaning 'than  "to  stand."  Agun  (Joshua 
XX.  4),  "  When  he  shall  itand  at  the  entering  in 
of  the  gate  of  the  dty."  The  French  is  "  ^uand 
il  a'arretera  k  I'entr^e  de  la  porte,"  So  in  the 
New  Testament,  "  When  ye  stand  praying  "  (ffrih 
inpt),  Mark  zi.  25,  "  Quand  vous  vous  pr^nt^riei 
pour  fwro  Totre  priSre."  Once  more  (Rev.  iii.  20), 
"  Behold  I  stand  at  the  door  and  knock  "  («rrq«a). 
The  French  can  render  it  no  more  accurately  than 
"  Je  me  tiens  a  la  porte," 

Looking  over  a  well-known  FVench  dictdooary, 
I  could  ouy  find  phrases  and  circumlocutions  for 
the  verb,  though  these  were  very  numerous. 

Strange,  therefore,  as  it  may  seem,  etymolo- 
gically  speaking,  I  believe  it  ma;  be  concluded 
that  it  would  be  simply  and  absolutely  impoaaible 
to  say  in  French  "he  stands"  contradictory  to 
"  he  nts  "  or  "  lies  down."  I  mean  of  course  as  a 
eontinuad  ad.  The  French  for  rtnn;  or  landing 
up  is  current  enough.  Should  this  view  be  incor- 
rect and  any  word  brouRht  forward  by  better 
French  scholars  than  ii  yaelf,  I  shaU  be  much 
obliged  by  the  discovery  and  correction  of  these 
views  on  the  subject. 

In  illustration  of  the  iDconveniences  end  losses 
'  in  ezpresaon  which  must  often  result  &om  this 


destitution,  as  to  the  word,  I  may  venture  to 
quote  a  passage  of  deep  and  grand  doctrinal  in- 
terest in  the  tenth  chapter  of  Sb  Paul's  Epistle  to 
the  Hebrews,  11th  and  12th  verses.  He  is  con> 
trasting  the  eontimiotu  ministry  of  the  priests 
under  the  Mosuc  dispensation  with  the  Jtnuieti 
ministry  of  Jesus  Ohnst  our  Lord : — 

"  Enrj  priest  ifaw&tA  daily  miDlMeriiig  and  offi>riiig 
oAantimea  lbs  Mine  ucriflco  which  on  aever  take  swar 
idns,  but  thii  laan  after  He  had  offered  one  uciifice  for 
aln  for  ever  lat  dbwK  en  the  right  biod  of  God." 

The  argument  depends  on  the  strict  use  of  th» 
word  it<mdi$ig  as  opposed  to  tiliing  down  after  & 
finished  worii,  but  tdl  this  is  lost,  or  at  all  events 
seriously  weakened  or  damaged,  by  the  absence 
of  any  word  in  the  French  version  beyond  "  as- 
siste   for  the  ivrtiKt,  or  stand,  of  the  original. 

Fbabcis  Tkbhch. 

IdipBectory.'     

CHATTEBTONIANA. 

Chitterton'b  Eiiowi.BDeB  or  AsoLO-Sixoir. 
In  the  paper  written  by  Rowley  on  the  "  Rise  of 
Fainting  in  England  in  1468,"  and  communicated 
by  Chatterton  to  Walpole,  are  several  Anglo- 
Saxon  words.  Kfost  of  these  are  used  wrongly ; 
but  if  we  rightly  explain  them,  and  tabulate  then 
in  alphabetical  order,  they  are  Ba  follows ; — 

Aad,  a  heap. 

Adrond,  drowned. 

Adriftnt  (faiu),  emhosaed  (vessels.) 

jEcced-fat,  an  add-vat,  vessel  for  vinegar. 

jEsb,  a  ship:  lit  an  ash. 

jE^lke,  nobly. 

Afagrod,  coloured,  adorned. 

Afgod,  an  idoL 

Agrafm,  eugiaveD. 

Mtrered,  reued  up. 

It  thus  appears  that  Rowley  was  possessed  of  an 
Anglo-Saxon  dictionary  (the  earliest  was  printed 
in  1669),  and  he  only  succeeded  in  acquiring  som» 
knowledge  of  the  lauguage  as  far  as  Ah.  Chat- 
terton's  letter  on  "  Saxon  Achievements,"  printed 
in  Southey's  edition,  vol.  iiL  p.  89,  exhibits  pre-  ' 
cisely  the  same  singular  resulL  He  there  ezvluna 
the  ytaiiA  Aadod,  Afgod,  AfgododjAfnaat.Amest, 
with  the  addition  of  Thmder-Jlagod.  The  last  of 
these  he  explains  by  "  thunder-blasted,"  but  be 
has  mistaken/  for  s.  The  word  which  suggested 
this  notion  to  him  is  Thuader-tlage,  a  clap  of 
thunder.  The  exception  in  Rowley's  letter  is 
Heoffuu,  which  be  uses  for  the  colour  €aure.  Thia 
is  how  he  came  by  it ;  he  looked  into  Bailey,  and 
found  "  Axare,  blue  (in  heraldry),"  &c.,  and  again 
"Azure,  the  sk;  or  firmament  This  aumested 
the  idea  of  heavtn.  He  then  found  that  Bailey 
gives  hefian  as  the  derivation  of  the  word.  This 
wd  him  to  look  into  an  Anglo-Saxon  dictionary, 
and  he  accordingly  found  heofon,  pi.  Aeo/enm, 
•ud  he  adopted  the  plural  as  qaainter-looldcg. 


4«»S.TII.  ApbilI,*:!.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


279 


Afralen  is  either  nuacopied  from  "  Aftelan,  to 
appoint,  deaisi!)"  or  nmply  mitde  np  from  tha 
heraldic  word  frtt.  Atma  is  miacopied  from 
"  Amett,  decked,  adorned."  It  thas  appears  that 
Chattertoa  knew  no  more  Anglo-SasoD  than  he 
migbt  have  racked  up  in  an  hour  from  a  gloaBaiy, 
ana  waa  muible  to  distiiigiiiah  between  »  and  /, 
and  probably  miaread  other  letters  also. 

Waltke  W.  Sjceat. 
I,  Ciotra  Tenacd,  Cambridge. 

Chatixbioii's  MomniBNT  k.i  Bbkiol:  Uk- 
rtTBUBHXD  OBiecTAi  Lkttebs. — 

Sir, — To  be  thought  worthy  of  writing;  the 
Epitaph  of  Chatterton  for  a  publick  monument  to 

be  erected  in  his  native  City  is  indeed  a  high  dis- 
tinction, and  I  do  not  allow  a  uagle  hour  to  pass 
away  without  acknowledging  the  honor  ^ou  have 
thus  conferred  on  me.  But  when  I  condder  that 
the  moet  illustrious  writer  in  existence  is  your 
townsman,  and  that  his  zeal  for  Chatterton  has 
been  manifested  long  ago  to  the  benefit  of  that 


unfortunate  youth's  family  and  to  the  glory  of  his 

'-'-'''placo,  Imust  entreat  vou  to  think  again  and 

I,  not  only  how  greatly  more  able,  but  also 


tnrthplac 

■gWOi  no         ,  „         , 

how  greatly  more  proper,  is  Southey's  ] 


I  acknowledge  your  judgement  in  preferring 
our  tongue  to  the  latin,  for  nothing  can  be  ab- 
flurder  uan  to  call  the  atteutiun  to  that  which  the 
generality,  when  they  are  called  to  it,  cannot  un- 
deretand.  This  is  barbarism  in  the  last  tatters  of 
condition.  ItisequallyaneTideuceof  your  judge- 
ment, nor  less  indeed  a  proof  of  your  integrity,  to 
oommemorate  by  statues  and  inscriptions  men  of 
exalted  genius  rather  than  the  restless  adTenturera 
and  unprincipled  psiliamentarians  to  whom  other 
commercial  Cities  have  erected  the  costly  memo- 
rials of  a  perishable  popularity. 
I  have  the  honor  to  be 
Sir, 

Your  obed'  Serr', 

W.  S.  Lahdob. 
St  Junes'  Square,  Uareh  19, 18B8. 

Sir, — The  instant  I  had  written  my  last  letter 
t0  you,  I  wrote  one  to  Dr.  Southey. 

YoniB  of  this  evening  is  highly  satis&ctory  to 


me,  since  I  find  that  vour  first  application 

this  great  ornament  oi  the  literair  world.    1  hope 

he  may  yet  be  induced  to  do  what  is  so  easy  for 


ham.  In  my  opinion  bis  Inscriptit 
parably  tbe  most  clasucal  productions  u>  uiu  um- 
temporaries,  and  particularly  the  earliest — that, 
for  instance,  on  Henry  Marten.  He,  however, 
may  have  some  objections  to  what  ^ou  propose ;  I 
myself  certainly  have ;  I  could  neither  "  point  a 
moral  nor  adorn  a  tale"  upon  a  tombstone;  and 
Deitber  tha  life  nor  the  deMh  of  Chatterton  aSbidi    S 


the  materials  which  I  should  be  desirous  of  em- 
ploying on  aoch  an  occauon. 
I  am,  Sir, 

Your  very  obed*  Serv', 
W.  S.  LuTsos. 
Batb,  Uinh  21.  ^ 

BABKEB  AND  BDRFORD'3  PANORAMAS. 

I  have  been  for  some  time  collecting  the  de- 
scriptive books  of  Burford's  Panoramas,  and  for- 
wanl  the  following  list  as  the  result  of  my 
labours,  thinking  it  may  be  worth  preserving,  in 
"  N.  &  Q."  I  should  like  to  know  if  1814  waa 
the  first  exhibition,  likewise  anything  relative  to 
the  artists,  Ac.  G.  J.  No&kax. 

180,  St.  Joha  Street  Boad,  ClerkenneU. 

Barkbb  Am>  Bdrfobd'b  Pahoramas. 


SpiubarKen 
Venlw 
Naples 
Bera  and  the 
High  Alps 
NepTes 
Coifti 
Pompeii 
Do.  Snd  Tie* 
Edinburgh 
Msiico 
Madrid 

CalcatU 
Svdney 
tlorence 
Milan 

Boothia 

Jeruultm 


H.A.Birker 

Nu  srtut'a  atme 

Barker  and  Burford 

Barker 

Barker  an^  Bnrford 


Bukei  u>d  Borbrd 


1818  Strand. 

1819  UicoelerSii. 

18M 

1S21  Leicester  Sq. 

ISai  Stnnd. 

182!  . 


Ligo  Haf^ore 
Mont  Blanc 
DnbUn 

Damascus 

CahnI  „  1842 

Waterloo  „  1B42 

~       Kong  Barfiild  and  SeloDS  1844 


1825  „ 

18-26  „ 

1827     Strand. 

1838    LeicetterSq. 

18S0  „ 

IS30  „ 

1831  „ 

1832 

1833 

71834  „ 

1834 

1835 

1836  „ 

?I836  „ 


71887 
1889 
1840 


[DDK  Kon 

a^beo 
Naples 
Constantinople 

Cashmere 
RniDB  of  Pompeii 
Mount  Righl 
Polar  B^ODS 

SebaMopol 


1844 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*»  S.  VII.  ArBH.  1,  Tl. 


B*ik«T,  and  opaiud  In  17M  with  a  piotara  of  LondoD. 
taken  by  no  leaa  vminent  an  artiat  than  Thomas  Glrtja, 
trom  the  Albion  Floar  Mills.  Robert  Barker  died  at  hb 
honse  in  West  Square,  Soulhwai*.  on  April  8, 1806,  aced 
siity-Beven.  Hie  eon,  Henry  Aston  Baiter,  sncceeded 
Mb  'father  in  tin  property,  and  John  Bnrford,  the  pupil 
of  the  second,  came  next,  leaving  it  in  tnra  to  hie  son 
Robert  Bnrford,  thelast  proprietor.  The  bnilding  Is  now 
a  Frcmdi  chapd. — Ed.} 

LOBD   CiXSNSLL'a    "LlFK    OT    LoED    LlSD- 


euftcj — Lord  Campbell's  Ztfe  o/lMrd  Ziyndhitrst. 
At  p.  156,  the  author  says  toat  in  1846  he  intro- 
duced a  Sill  for  compensatiDff  the  families  of  pei- 
eons  killed  bj  negUgence ;  that  he  carried  it  in 
1846  (p.  161),  and  that  it  baa  been  a  Terr  aucceasfiil 


1846  by  the  late  Mr.  Collia,  a  Stourbridge  at- 
tomejr.  He  drew  it;  I  brought  It  id,  got  it, 
with  much  trouble,  against  the  op^orition  of  all 
the  Judges,  through  a  Select  Committee,  through 
Hie  House  of  LokU,  and  down  to  the  third  reading 
in  the  House  of  Commons.  Then  the  present 
Lord  Chelmsford,  who  was  Attoraey-Qenentl,  ^t 
it  thrown  out ;  therehj,  aa  I  have  often  told  him, 
destroying  oue  of  my  amall  hopea  of  immortality. 

The  next  year  Lord  Campbell — I  bebgin  office 
and  unable  to  attend  to  it — ^took  it  up  and  carried 
it  without  difficulty.  "  Hunc  ego  billiculum  fed, 
tulit  alter  honores."  It  has  been  called  Lord 
Campbell's  Act  ever  rince. 

It  ia  hard  that,  baTing  reared  to  maturity  so 
large  and  flourishbg  a  flock  of  parliamentary  pro- 
ductJOQS,  he  should  thus  att«mpt  to  rob  me  of  my 
poor  little  embryo  ewe  Iamb.  Lyttbltos. 

Old  Custous  at  Ca.ihbdraxs,  bto. — I  think 
old  Aubrey  saja  that  where  "  laudable  customs 
Taniah,  learning  decayeth,"  and,  as  Dean  Oua- 
ford  eud  of  St.  Paul,  "I  partly  agree  wiUi 
him,".    It  ia  within  the  recollectioD  of  old  fre- 


cacoiiB  used  to  kneel  down  in  their  stalls.  Mv 
informant  remembeta  Dean  Comwallia,  Br.  Durel^ 
and  Dr.  Prosser  doing  this.  Their  immediate 
BuccessOTB  only  bowed,  and  then  the  custom  disap- 
peared entirely.  At  St.  John's,  Edinburgh,  about 
twenty-five  years  ago  the  whote  amgragation  kMlt 
at  the  above  worda,  and  the  well-known  chant 
(Purcell  in  O)  was  cb^ged  into  the  minor  tey 
for  that  TSTM  only.  The  deea  and  canons  of 
Durham  (with,  I  believe,  but  one  ezceptdon],  and 
the  minorcanoiis,etill  keep np  the  "laudable  cus- 
tom" of  bowing  towards  the  altar  as  they  leave 
the  choir.  A  vulgar  notion  has  preTailad  that  it 
ia  done  to  thank  the  chew  Ear  tbeir  etrvieee.    But 


with  referaoce  to  ibis  I  have  heard  the  late  Arcif 
deacon  Thorp  say,  that  in  hie  young  days  every 
one  bowed  cm  leaving  the  choir ;  that  they  would 
aa  aooB  have  thougbt  of  putting  th^  hats  on  as 
neglecting  to  bow ;  and  that  when  he  was  a  littto 
boy  theheight  of  the  table,  bis  father,  who  waa 
archdeacon  1>efoTe  him,  would  have  boxed  his 
ears  if  he  had  not  bowed  to  the  altar  as  a  good 
Christian  ahould.  This  yigoroua  eiercisa  of  pa- 
rental and  archidiaconal  functiona  might  perhees 
be  remembered  with  advantage  by  some  at  thft 
present  day.  DuiTBLMEHsra  olm. 

CcsiOTra  Epiiapk.— The  fbllowina  ia  from  ft 
ttonbstoDe  in  Midnapore  burial-ground :  — 

-  atop,  rwulcia,  and  lament  tbe  loa*  of  a  depaitad 
buotv,  tor  hare  are  laid  at  rest  the  earthly  relidcs  ot 
M™.  Susanna  Bird,  who  bade  a  long  adian  to  a  most 
affectionate  hnsband  and  three  loved  pledges  of  thdr 
union,  on  tha  10th  of  Sqrteniber,  17M,  aged  twenty-Sjnr 


"  Tbe  Bird  conflned  within  thia  eaga  at  gloom, 
Tbo'  faded  bar  fine  tints,  her  yonlhful  bloom, 
Tho'  no  soft  note  drop  from  her  syren's  tongue, 
By  sleep  rafresh'd,  more  beanteoua  gay  and  yonng. 
Will  rise  from  earth,  her  eernph's  winge  display. 
And  ehannt  her  an^ema  to  the  God  of  day." 
From  the  StamJutttr  Gaardian  of  Dec  14, 1870. 

Thos.  Ratcuffe. 

LoweBViTT. — I  was  at  the  funeral  of  a  good 
old  lady  of  eightv-seven  the  other  day,  who 
pointed  out  to  me,  tlie  last  time  I  had  the  pleasure 
of  being  with  her,  that  ahe  was  great-great-great 
aunt  to  a  certain  child.  I  believe  this  to  be  so 
uncommon  a  relationship  between  living  persons 
as  tfl  be  worthy  of  a  note.  C.  W.  BraaHiM. 

Railwat  Matckl— We  are  apt  to  think  th» 
speed  was  always  slow  on  early  railways.  A 
cutting  from  the  Marli  Xune  Exprtu  for  1S41 
stat«a  that  Mr.  I.  K.  Brunei,  the  engineer  on  the 
Great  Western  Railway,  was  about  to  perfiwm  a 
match  from  Briatol  to  London  by  the  engine 
called  the  "  Hurricane,"  within  two  hours,  for 
1000<1,  or  nearly  nzty  milea  an  hour.  Did  this 
match  ever  take  place?         Johb  PioaoT,  Jtm. 

HiBTOBT  aKPBATisa  iraKL?.  —  The  following 

Juotaliona  from  Whitalocke'a  Jfemoriofo.chftDginff 
atee  and  names,  might  have  been  lately  written 
from  Paria,  with  perfect  truth,  and  almost  in  the 
ae  words.  W.  C.  Trbtbltak. 

July  7tb,  IMS.— A  Lattar  fTon  Colsheatar  Leagner, 
that  B'dUr  and  Ghtem  ware  ai  6«.  a  poaod. 

July  22nd.-'Thosa  in  the  Town  have  began  to  eat 
Horiefitih,  and  have  provided  store  atPitch  and  7"ar,t» 
fin  and  throw  npon  tbe  Besiegeia. 

Jnly  iSth.— The  Soldiers  in  the  Town  had  Uved  upon 
ffoTM-jbri  flra  dm  toeelher,  aad  at  a  Cooit  of  Geaid 
(bey  toeitMl  a  whole  fivrsa, 

Angoat  4th.— When  aome  of  the  Town  compUioed  oT 
want  of  Tietuata,  Lord  Qoiing  (tbv  Govemor)  told  them 
they  most  not  complain  W.  Hortt-fitdi  was  at  JOa.aj^^ 


4>kaLTILAPBn.l,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


2H1 


Ton,  rompUining  that  thtir  allnrauje  or  Bnad  <ru 
tbUed  IVom  14  to  10  aances  *riay,  uid  tb*t  their  Hortt- 
fitMh  w*i  much  tainted. 

August  8th.— Thej  klUed  SO  Sonti  to  poviki  them 
up  [>■  ''  to  convert  into  Sini*Mi^]. 

Sept.  19U].— ThoH  who  come  oot  of  theToirn  aSna 
tbat  all  the  Dogi  and  Colt,  and  moat  of  the  Hotum  dun 

Sept.-22nd.— Ooeof  the  SbrHiof  the  PailiameDt  Cea- 
ttiei  being  killed,  mmy  ot  the  Tomi  cftme  fbrth,  to  Fetch 
In  Che  dead  bone,  and  dlTen  of  them  were  killed,  jet  got 
not  the  Horn  :  the  oaxt  day  they  came  again,  and  ven- 
tated  their  livea,  to  cnt  off  piaces  ot  the  stinking  dead 
Hone,  to  aatiaiy  Ihair  hnngar." 

ASTHUKUir  J^ocuLiim.— I  cod  mM  two  pUcw 
to  the  Arthnriui  tocalitiM  in  North wnberUnd 
giTen  hj  Mr.  Stuart  Olennie.    On  the  beach  to 

the  north  of  Cresswell  Point  thsie  ira»  ft  luge 
circnlw  rock,  call«d  King  Arthur's  Table.  This 
IB  now  destroyed.  One  of  the  outwud  Fern 
Islands  is  c»Ued  Arthur's  Seat,  sjid  is  ao  nuned 
in  aurrejs  of  the  coast  A  Sxuobnabiui. 

AuACB  Airo  Lox&Am.  —  Lately  I  read  in 
papers,  both  Engiish  and  foreign,  that  in  Akaee 
and  Loiraine,  in  the  population  of  which  the 
military  element  is  pieaominant,  the  worship  of 
.Nqtolem  L,  inohidins  that  of  his  dynasty,  was 
Teiy  deeply  rooted.  Such  an  account  is  far  from 
hung  correct  and  the  feeling  alluded  to  has  long 
ceased.  On  March  15,  1616,  the  Marquis  de 
Pulsaye,  a  French  political  asent,  was  writing 
from  South  Lambeth  Lawn,  Vauxhall,  to  Louis- 
Philippe,  then  Duke  of  Orleans : — 

"Hon  m^decia  a  vn  hler  ane  penonne  venant  de 
f  ranee,  qa'il  dit  capable  de  biea  obaerrer,  ec  qui  a  par- 
conru  lea  proviQoea  d'Aluce  etdo  Lorraine  et  de  Franche- 
Comt^.  L'oplTuon  que  cetCe  personne  a  rapport^  de  ces 
pays,  est  qu'ils  sont  entiferamenl  d^ofll^  dii  gonverne- 
inent  actnel,  et  qa*il  est  probable  que  tonte  la  population 
e'empreaaerait  de  aeconder  tont  daasaia  dont  I'objet  serait 
ds  le  renTeiaar.  Elle  croit  mSme  qa'il  exiite  i€}k  an 
parti  en  bvaiir  da  petit  Napol^n." — Ftiuayt  Paptrt, 
British  Uoaeum,  ii.  793 ;  Flit,  cjexti.  c.  fol.  14 


Athennun  Qnb,  Pall  Mall. 


Fbakc»qijx-Micesl. 


aunCritf. 


DUQDALE'S  "  HISTORT  OV  ST.  PAOL'3 
CATHEDRAL^" 
Can  any  of  yonr  learned  correspondents  help  me 
to  discover  ttie  "  local  habitation  "  of  some  of  the 
docomente  quoted  in  Dugdale's  Butory  of  St. 
Pautt  Ca&tdrait  ^  Henry  ElUs,  in  hu  eoitiDn 
oT  Dngdale  (fol.  London^  1818),  throws  no  light 
whatever  upon  the  particul^  points  in  which  I 
am  interested.  He  gives,  indeed,  in  the  exceed- 
ingly biief  preface  a  few  details  es  to  certain 
sources  of  information,  and  refers  to  doouiaents 
which  he  had  obtained  from  the  cathedral  archives, 
from  tlie  Aogmentation  Office,  from  Heralds'  Col- 
lege, and  from  the  libraries  at  Lambeth  and  at 


Oxford.  But  as  to  the  source  from  which  several 
important  pieces  were  obtained  I  have  been  un- 
aUe  to  procure  any  certain  information,  although 
I  have  bestowed  some  little  pains  in  searching. 

At  p.  342  of  the  appendix,  article  zxivii.,  a 
aeries  of  statutes  are  printed,  extending  over  about 
twelve  closely  printed  pages,  in  double  columns. 
These  era  said  to  be  taken  in  part  "  ex  Cod.  MS. 
penis  WUL  Pierpont  Arm.,"  and  I  think  that  this 
heading  ia  simply  reprinted  from  the  earlier  edi- 
tion of  Sugdale.  But  who  was  "  Will.  Pierpont 
Aim.,"  and  where  is  this  "  Cod.  MS."  now  de- 
posited P  I  have  in<;^uiied  at  Heralds'  College, 
but  Ithinklmayeaj^itisnotthere,  Qarter  King- 
at-Arma  himself  having  kindly  assisted  me  in  mj 
search;  nor  is  it,  I  think,  amongst  the  MSS.  at 
Lambeth. 

At  p.  344  of  the  appendu:  it  is  said  that  the 
greater  rart  of  the  above  article  is  taken  "  ex  alio 
Codice  MS.  pente  pnefat.  W.  Pierpont  Arm." 
Where  is  this  MS.  F 

At  p.  360  a  ve^  interesdng  document  is  f^nnd, 
intituled  "  Eihibita  tl  Johaime  Collet  Becano,  i«- 
verendiasimo  Petri  et  Uomino  Caidinali  Ebor.  an 
Apoatolico  Legato  i,  latere,  pro  Reformatioae 
status  Besidentiariorum  in  Ecclesia  8.  PauU, 
primo  Septembris,  A°.  D.  1518."  This  is  said  to 
be  taken ''ex  cartaceo  regiatro penes  prref,  Dec  et 
Cap.  Eccl.  Cath,  S.  Pauli  Lond."  The  article 
extends  over  some  seven  pages.  Where  is  this 
document  P  Certainly  not  now  "penes  prteCDec 
et  Cap.,"  for  the  archives  of  the  dean  and  chapter 
are  under  my  care,  and  I  can  say  with  certamW 
that  it  is  not  to  be  found  amount  them.  "  Colet's 
Statutes,"  says  Dean  Milman  u  his  Aunala  (3nd 
edit  p.  124),  "were  never  accepted  by  the  chapter, 
noc  confirmed  hy  the  bishop/'  Still  they  merit 
careful  attention,  and  form  a  not  uninteresting 
item  in  the  history  of  the  cathedral 

A  little  further  on  in  the  appendix,  p.  401, 
Bstide  IvL,  we  arrive  at  a  list  of  "  Books  apper- 
taining to  the  Cathedral  Church  of  S.  Paul  in 
London,  delivered  by  Mr.  Henry  Cole,  late  Dean 
of  the  same  Church  to  M',  D*.  Mey,  now  Dean 
tliere,  xx"  Day  of  September,  An"  1559,"  which 
list  is  seud  to  have  been  taken  "  ex  vet.  membr. 
penes  Dec.  et  Cap.  EccL  Cath.  S.  Pauli."  Now 
m  this  catalogue  I  find  no  lens  than  three  books 
about  which  I  should  be  most  thankful  to  receive 
information.  The  firata  book  intituled  "  Statutes 
used  in  Dean  Collet's  Days"  ;  the  second,  "Liber 
viutationis  Johanois  Colet  Decani  Ecclesiffi  S. 
Pauli  Lond.  sub  anno  Domini  1600" ;  the  third, 
"  a  book  written  in  parchment  of  certain  Statntes 
collected  bv  Dean  Colet,  being  bound  in  boards 
and  covered  with  black  leather,"  Now,  where 
are  these  books  to  be  found  P  Of  course  it  is  easy 
at  once  to  dismiss  the  question,  and  to  say,  "Oh, ~ 
they  were  burnt  in  the  Great  Fire."  But  such  an 
answer  will  not,  meet  the  case,  for  one  book  at 


KOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


[*»8.T1I.  ApiaLl.71. 


leut  ont  of  the  thiiteen  ennmentad  in  the  Cftta- 
logue  IB  atiU  under  mj  care ;  and  besides,  I  tbink 
that  Eoight,  in  his  Lift  of  Colel,  refen  to  the 
parehment  book  "corered  -with  black  leather," 
vbich  forms  the  third  item  above-mentioiied,  aa 
still  in  exiatence.  I  have  not  Knight's  book  at 
'  hand,  Dor  perhaps  is  an  exact  reference  necessarj. 
Praj,  Mr.  Editor^  help  me  if  jou  can.  There 
are  several  points  in  these  documents  which  I 
desire  to  verifj,  and  I  am  especially  anxious  to 
datennine  whether  the  original  are  still  in  exist- 
ence. Whether  anj  one  of  them  may  be  dis- 
covered amongBt  the  archives  of  the  Citr  of 
London — a  mine  of  wealth  as  3%t  bat  partially 
explored — or  whether  they  may  lurk  in  secret 
amongst  the  papers  of  some  Ci^  compsDy,  or  may 
even  rest  amonpt  the  muItitudiDOua  MSS.  of  the 
national  collection  (in  nhich  case  tbey  have  eluded 
my  search  hitherto)  I  am  unable  to  detennioe.  I 
do  not  think  that  Colet's  MSS.  now  inquired  for 
wUl  be  found  either  at  St.  Paul's  School  or 
amongst  the  archives  of  the  Mercers'  Company, 
although  at  either  place  I  believe  that  other 
MSS.  of  the  dean  Btffl  remain.  The  Rev.  J.  H. 
Lnpton  has  lately  published  Ttdo  Trealuei  of  the 
Hierarchiet  of  Dionydut  and  the  Opus  de  Sacra- 
tneutii  EccUsia,  both  by  Dean  Colet,  from  the 
original  MSS.  preserved  in  the  library  of  St.  Paul's 
School  {  but  he  has  not  diacovered  in  the  school 
library  any  of  the  volumes  that  form  the  suVgect 
of  the  present  inquiry, 

W.  Spabbow  Supsoii. 


Abibio  NuKXRiLS  iH  Welu  Catsksbal. — 
Since  the  restoration  of  the  west  front  of  Wells 
Cathedral  began  it  has  been  discovered  that  in 
the  line  of  suDjects  representing  the  resurrection 
of  the  dead  eacn  gtoop  has  bad  a  number  marked 
aait  In  the  space  over  end  of  north  aisle  of 
nave  the  figures  of  a.  8. 9.  occur,  which  are  Arabic 
numerals  almost  precisely  as  used  at  the  present 
day.  These  sculptures  are  of  early  date,  and  not 
like  those  of  the  three  top  rows  containing  the 
figHJB  of  our  Lord,  the  row  of  apostlee,  and  that 
of  angels — all  of  which  are  of  Perpendicular  date, 
though  evidently  not  the  work  of  one  artist. 

The  rising  figrires  of  kings,  queens,  and  bishops 
have  crowns  or  mitres  on  their  beads ;  otherwise 
they  are  naked.  The  tomb-slabs  are  all  plain, 
but  ftom  their  general  shape,  together  with  those 
of  crowns  and  mitresj  the  sculptures  cannot  date 
later  than  the  early  Decorated  period,  The  gene- 
ral character  of  the  other  numerals  seen  does  not 
agree  with  the  figures  used  during  the  Perpendi- 
cular period. 

As  the  reatoratioa  proceeds  a  greater  variety  of 
the  figures  will  be  seeD,  and  perhaps  further  in- 
formation obtained.  The  material  used  is  the 
local  Doulting  stone,  so  that  the  work  was  exe- 
cuted at  or  near  the  spot ;  but  the  use  of  these 


figures  seems  to  rtuse  a  doubt,  in  so  far  as,  if  the 
annate  were  local  men,  their  unmerals  of  this  sort 
were  used  commonly  much  earlier  than  is  gene- 
rally supposed ;  or,  if  otherwise,  the  carrera  were 
bronght  fromadistrict  where  these  numbers  were 
known  to  a  country  where  they  were  not  generally 
used  or  known  to  execute  the  sculptures. 

No  letters  have  as  yet  been  seen  on  any  of  them, 
nor  masons'  marks,  though  masons'  banker  marks 
are  abundant  on  the  cathedral  and  in  the  bed- 
joints  of  the  stones  of  west  front. 

Woold  any  of  your  readers  tdndly  inform  me 
of  any  very  early  examples  of  which  the  date  can 
certainly  be  obtained,  or  at  least  approximated  to, 
in  England  P  Jas.  T.  Ibvike. 

Coomb  Ddvo,  Bath. 

SiK  Robert  Botlb.— It  is  stated  in  the  Livtt 
of  the  IriA  Chancdion  by  Mr.  O'Flanagan,  vol.  i. 
p.  361,  that  Sir  R.  Boyle  was  sent  from  Irebuid 
with  despatches  for  Queen  Elizabeth  announcing 
the  succasa  of  ber  majesty's  forces  at  Kinsale  in 
1601-2,  and  that  be  left  Shandon  Castle,  Cork,  on 
Monday  morninr,  and  the  next  day,  Tuesday, 
supped  with  Sir  R.  Cecil,  Secretary  of  State,  at  hia 
house  in  the  Strand.  What  authority  is  there 
for  thb  apparently  incredibly  rapid  journey  P    P. 

BuBFF.— What  is  the  ori^al  meanine  of  the 
word  bnrff  or  burft  From  whence  is  it  derived, 
and  how  comes  it  to  be  locally  used  for  an  emi- 
nence F  Thoiub  £.  WmHiRQToii, 
Clebgt  ts  Stbpkby  Pabish  ArraK  1650. — 
If  any  of  your  readers  will  refer  me  to  any  allu- 
Bons  to  the  ministers  mentioned  below,  who 
officiated  in  this  parish  daring  the  time  stated 
against  their  names,  and  to  any  works  they  may 
have  published,  I  shall  feel  greatly  obliged. 

Thomas  Walton,  1664  to  \«m.  In  Palmer's 
edition  (1862)  of  Calamy'a  NoneonformitU  Memo- 
rial mention  is  made  of  a  "  Mr.  Walton,"  the 
vicar  of  West  Ham,  Essex,  who  was  ejected  from 
that  living.    Are  these  the  same  persons  P 

Thomas  Marriot,  1666  to  1666  or  1670.  He 
waa  also  lecturer  of  this  parish  in  1664-5. 

Samuel  Peck,  about  1666  or  1670  to  1^. 
After  1600  he  was  at  Ipswich. 

Any  further  particulars  tiion  those  which  ap- 


Rev.  Henry  Hig^son  (as  to  their  curacies  in 
Surrey  and  St.  Uarylebone)  would  be  moat 
acceptable.  Ghableb  Masoit. 

3,  Glouc«ateT  Crescent,  H^de  Park. 

CovaBCBATioN  07  Rbgikental  CoLOUBa.  — 
The  following  passage  appears  in  several  hiS' 
torical  acoounta  of  Shrewsbury:  — 

"  1TS9.  A  Begt.  of  Foot  wu  raissd,  and  rendmvond 
here.    Th«v  -men  called  the  'Ronl  TolnntMra'  (85Ch 
Foot,  raised  17G9,  disttandcd  1763).    Cd.  Urawfbrd 
manded  tfaem.    On  Dec  31, 17SEI,  tha  ooloan  wen 


?tle 


"■S.VII.  Apsil1,7J.1 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


with  gnat  pomp,  being  carried  ia  proOHioD  to  St. 
Cbad's  Church,  where  a  sermcui  wai  preached  by  the 
ReT<'  Bowlaod  Chambn." 

Cui  aaj  TeaderjnTe  me  further  parUculora  of 
this  ceremoDf  F  Tue  procesaion  of  the  coloutB  to 
church  was  cortainlj  aa  iaaoTUioa  in  a  military 
jKiint  of  Tiew,  and,  consideriiiK  buw  little  atten- 
tion was  then  given  to  ritualiatdc  ceremonial,  I 
am  inclined  to  think  in  an  ecclesiastical  sense 
also.  H.  M.  C. 

[Some  notice*  of  the  conaecnUoQ  of  RcoimeDtal  Co- 
lours may  be  found  in  "  N.  &  O,"  I-  3.  x.  10,  75;  2«  S. 
IT.  257,278;  8"  8.  HI- 229.] 

LoKB  AKD  Ladt  Dobite. — Thomas  Whitbj, 
Esq.,  of  Eounslow,  Middlesex,  a  widower,  agod 
eightj,  had  a  licence  &oni  the  Bishop  of  London, 
May  4,  1621,  to  marry  Lady  Alice  Dome  alia» 
Punnycooke,  aged  fifty,  widow  of  the  late  Lord 
Dome.  I  should  be  glad  to  know  who  was  this 
Lord  or  Lady  Dome.  .T.  L.  C 

Faist  CHAnasLDias.  —  The  snperstitiott  re- 
specUng  fairr  changelings  still  lingers,  I  believe, 
in  some  of  Uie  remoter  rural  districts  of  Ireland. 
Nor  is  it  wholly  without  foundation,  for  that 
sudden  and  unaccountable  changes — which  dmple- 
jninded  people  take  to  be  preternatural— do  often 
occur  in  the  health,  appearance,  and  temper  of 
infants  is  an  undoubted  fact. '  My  query  is, 
whether  medical  science  has  yet  given  a  full  ez- 
podtion  of  the  phyrical  causes  of  those  changes  ? 
If  such  exposition  exists,  where  is  it  to  be  found  ? 
D.  Blaib. 

Helbourae. 

Jomr  Fbll,  Bishop  of  Oxford,  ob.  1686,  let. 
sixty-one;  bom  at  Longworth,  Berks.  Can  any 
of  your  readers  gite  the  pedigree  of  this  divine  P 
I  am  anxious  to  know  if  he  came  of  an  old  family 
of  Fell  of  Redmayne  Hall,  in  Fumess,  Lancashire, 
which  readed  there  for  nineteen  generatjons. 
Thomas  Fell,  a  banister-at-law,  a  learned  jud^e, 
and  Chancellor  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster  dunng 
the  Commonwealth,  was  of  the  same  stock.  The 
arms  of  Judge  Fell  and  Bishop  Fell  are  difTerent. 
H.  Babbbb,  M.D. 

[Samuel  Fell,  dean  of  Christ  Chorch,  the  father  of 
Bishop  John  Fell,  ii  aaid  to  liave  been  bora  in  tbe  paririi 
of  St  Clement  Danes,  London  (Biog.  BrilaiBnai,ei.  UK, 
p.  191S)  I  bnt  tbe  pedinee  in  tbe  Heralds' CoUwe,  which 
commences  with  the  dean,  sUles  "  Samoel  Fdl,  S.  T.  P. 
of  Hall  Court  in  the  pariah  of  Hucb-Haide,  co.  Here- 
ford." who  married  Marearet,  daughter  of  Thomas  Wyld 


assigned  the  Mowing amu  to  BUhop  Felt :  "Fell,  Esq., 
Or,  tlim  lontiges  arojalned  in  (en  azuie,  on  tlie  middle 
oie  •  Oatbariii».«lied,  thereon  a  cioh  paity  fitctaed  or. 
In  cfaJef  a  roee  between  a  paitcnUis  and  a  leopard's  face 
azure,  within  a  border  gulis,  eharged  with  foar  lozenges 
and  l^r  eacalopa  allernala  aivsuL    These  are  borne  tnr 

John  Fell,  Eaq,  dtinnof  '—- •—   ■■-  -— '  ~  -'-■ 

giant  of  them  girsn  to  hla 


Tom  Brown,  the  witty  and  facetious  writer  of  D 
of  iht  Dtad,  in  imitalion  of  Lvcimi,  ^c,  being  Uhibi  u> 
be  expelled  the  Univenity  of  Oxford  for  some  fault,  w*s 
pardoned  by  Samuel  Fell,  the  Dean  of  Christ  Church,  on 
tbe  condition  that  he  ahoald  tranahite  extempore  the  e|d- 
gram  from  Martial,  xxzlii.: — 

"  Nod  amo  te,  Zabidi,  use  possum  dleere  qnare ; 
Hoc  tantum  posanm  dleere,  non  amo  te, — 
which  he  Instantly  rendered : 

"  I  do  not  like  thee.  Dr.  Fell, 
The  reason  why  1  cannuC  tell ; 
Bat  this  I  know,  faU  nrelv  well, 
I  do  not  Uke  thes.  Dr.  Fell" 
Some  brief  notices  of  the  Fells  of  Lancashire  may  be 
fband  in  "  N.  &  Q^"  1»  8.  ill  142  i  ir.  256 ;  tL  233, 
379.] 

Haitbsk  Oahthb  Aim  Thoxab  Lafpaox. — 
Can  any  of  your  German  readers  give  me  infor- 
mation concerning  Hanese  Oanthe  and  Thomas 
LanpAge,  who  were  inhabitants  of  Bsntzig  ia 
IG28  P  Thev  were,  I  suppose,  merchants,  as  tfaey 
are  describea  in  a  document  beftire  me  as  factors 
to  John  Psrya  and  Reynolde  Litalprowe,  who 
were  English  subjects.  EnwABP  PEACOCK. 

BoCtetfbrd  Manor,  Brigg. 

HKHBT  Vin.  AND  IBS  OOLSBN  FLBBCK.^IKd 

Henry  VIIL  ever  possess  the  Order  of  tbeOolden 
Fleece  F  Are  there  any  lepresentatjoos  of  him  as 
westing  Uiat  order  F  Albkkt  BtrrrsBT. 

Rbv.  Johk  MAoeowAH,  V.D.U.,  aatlior  of  The 
Shaver.  A  ebort  time  since  a  very  ^ufunt  like- 
ness ia  ink  of  this  gentleman  came  mto  my  pos- 
session, but  I  have  no  means  of  ascertaining  who 
he  was  or  when  he  lived.  In  his  right  hand  he 
holds  a  roll  of  paper,  inscribed  "  Letters  to  Dr. 
Priestley."  His  dress  appears  to  be  that  of  tbe 
latter  part  of  the  eighteenth  century.  Can  any  of 
your  readers  tell  me  who  this  gentleman  was, 
and  the  meaning  of  V.D.M.  P  T.  A.  H. 

[John  Micnwan  was  bora  at  Edinbargh  about  the 
year  172G,  and  wag  pUoed  out  to  the  trade  of  a  weaver. 
In  September,  1766,  he  became  pastor  of  a  ParUcnlar 
Baptist  congregatioa  meeting  in  Devonshire  Sqnaie, 
Idndon,  where  he  continued  nearly  Qfleen  yeara,  and 
died  on  Nov.  25, 1780,  in  the  flily-flfth  year  of  his  sn, 
and  was  bnried  In  BunhUI  Fields.  T.D.H.  is  Verbl  Dai 
or  (Divini)  Ulninter,  ■  Minister  of  God'a  Word.  It  Is 
remarkable  that  W.  Tooke,  in  bis  uinotated  edition  of 
Charles  Cborchill's  WotU,  has  not  taken  any  noUee  of 
Churchill's  poem  J%At,  with  notes  by  Tht  Shattr,  1786. 
For  a  list  of  Maegowau's  Worlu,  consult  Wilson's  his- 
tory of  DiuaUiiig  Chiircha,  1. 45S  ;  to  which  add  a  col- 
lected edition  of  nis  ^oris,  with  a  portrait,  in  two  vols, 
gvo,  1626.  He  Is  also  noticed  in  G.  H.  Pike's  Aimiait 
Xtetmg  Hoiua,  1870,  p.  65.] 

Sfens  SB's  Pahofb.— -In  the  Fatry  Qatent,  3, 8, 87, 
Panopeisintroduced  as  an  "old  nymph"  who  kept 
the  house  of  Proteus.  Is  this  Panope  the  Nereid 
(Virg.  ^n.  T.  240,  823) ;  and  if  so,  bad  Spenser 
any  clasMcal  authority  for  thus  representing  hwP 
C.  S.  J. 
Stukt's  Editioii  of  thb  Boos  of  Comhos 
FsATiB. — I  possess  a  copy  of  this  book — 


284 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[<«■  S.  VII.  Amii.  1,  '71. 


"  Engraven  and  printed  by  the  permisrion  of  Mf.  John 
Buketti  printer  to  the  King's  most  excellent  Majuty, 
J7I7.  Solii  by  John  Slurt,  Engnva,  id  Goldeo  Lion 
Court  in  Alderagate  Street." 

I  am  anxious  to  know  if  there  are  many  copes 
of  this  beautifd  work  extant.  It  muat  have  been 
published  at  great  eipense.  Every  page  is  printed 
ham  a  separate  coppet-plat«.  The  lest  throughout 
is  in  running  hmid,  delicately  executed.  The  ini- 
tial letters  are  hifchlv  ornamented.  Each  page 
has  rich  and  TUied  bordera,  well  demgned  and 
enwaTed. 

The  Epiatlea  and  Gospels  hare  head  piecas  illus- 
tratinf*  tliem;  some  are  very  good  and  admirably 
etched,  reminding  one  of  BOTtanx'a  and  Morti- 
mer's etchings,  particularly  those  which  relate  to 
onr  Tjord's  Pasnon.  The  headings  and  t*il  piecea 
to  the  separate  Chorch  Offices  are  verv  good.  In 
one  of  the  front  pages  is  a  profile  of  l^g  Oeorge, 
within  a  circolar  band  of  three  inches  in  diutNt«t, 
with  this  inscription :  — 

"  The  effijrfefl  of  King  Geoi^  rontaina  the  I-ord'a 
Prayer,  the  Greed,  tbe  Ten  CommMndment*.  the  Prarwi 
for  the  King  and  the  Boral  Fimily,  and  the  2  lit  pMlm." 

By  the  aid  of  a  microscopo  every  word  may  be 
dearly  read.  There  is  a  list  of  sunacribers  to  the 
work,  numbering  between  three  and  four  hun- 
dred. Bkhj.  Febkiy,  F.S.A. 

[Horace  Wilpole  (Aaealnte$  of  Pai/iHiig.  ed.  IM9, 
iii.95e)thD9  noticei  (his  piM^I  work  of  art :  "Stnrt'a 
oipilBl  work  iraii  his  CbmiHon  Praj/er  Bcoi,  pubtiidisd  by 
■nMcripdon  in  1717 :  it  is  all  engraven  very  neatly  on 
silver  plates  in  two  colamns,  nilh  borders  round  each 

eate,  small  histories  at  top,  and  Initial  letters.  It  Is  a 
rge  octaro,  and  contains  16B  plates,  be«des  twenty-two 
in  OM  beginning,  which  oonnsts  of  the  dedication,  table, 
praftce,  calendar,  nsmee  of  aabneribers,  &c.  Prefixed  is 
a  bast  of  George  I.  in  ■  roand,  and  facing  it  those  of  the 
Prince  and  Princees  of  Wales.  On  the  King's  bust  are 
engraren  the  Lord's  Prayer,   Creed,   CommsndmcDta, 


Prayers  for  tbe  Koyal  Family,  and  the  Slst  Psalm,  but 

" tto  b«  legible  withont  aniagnifying  -' — " 

least  three  copies  In  the  British  Hi 


There  a: 
For  the 
Laanda,  p.  194!.] 


■  niagnifylDg  glius." 
■^!  BritUh  Hnsenm. 

It  sale\  sea  Bohn'i 


WiFB  OF  JoHS  TKADESCiiTT.— C.  K,  Wishes  to 
ascertain  the  date  of  the  death  and  place  of  burial  { 
of  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of  John  Tradescant  the 
elder.  ^  They  were  married  at  Heopbam  in  June, 
1607; 'and  their  son,  also  named  John,  was  bom 
in  August,  1608.  They  appear  to  have  been  in  | 
the  employ  as  gardeners  of  itobert  Cecil,  Earl  of 
Saliabuiji'lord  of  the  manor  of  Shome,  who  died  j 
in  1612  and  of  Robert  Lord  Wotton  of  Boughton 
Malherba,  who  died  in  1608.  We  next  find  them,  ' 
father  and  son,  settled  BtLamheth,Bt  some  period 
previous  to  1629,  as  gardeners  to  King  Charles  I. 
and  his  queen  Henrietta  Maria ;  but  no  record  of 
the  wife  Elizabeth  having  accompaniad  them,  and 
her  name  does  not  occur  either  in  the  Lambath 
re^ster  or  on  the  family  tombstone. 


Sir   Albxabdsr  TBousoir.  — I    should    feel 
obliged  to  any  correspondent  of  "  N.  &  Q."  who 
can  tell  anytmog  of  this  gentleman,  and  of  the 
aervicea  which  obtained  for  him  the  honour  of 
knighthood,    ^e  was  the  son  of  John  Thomson, 
towD-clerk  of  Glasgow,  1620'S6;  was  bom  in 
1606-7,  and  was,  I  think,  the  brother  of  Elizabeth 
or  Bessie  Thomson,  wife  of  James  Peadte  rf 
Koughill — a  family  which  for  three  or  four  gener- 
ations held  a  leading  poution  in  Glasgow,  filling 
the  highest  civic  offices;  and  of  which,  I  believe, 
Griiel  Peadie,  wife  of  Sir  William  Maxwell  of 
Calderwood,  Bart.,  became  the  heiress  of  Une  about 
1740,   M'Ure,  who  styles  Sir  Alesander  "  Major," 
at  p.  200  of  his  Hidory  of  Qkugow,  transcriber 
the  epitaph  on  his  monument  in  the  cathedral 
churcnyaid  of  Glasgow  as  follows :  — 
"  MemorlK  sacmm  D,  Alexandrl 
Thomsoni  Eqoitis  aursti. 
Quondam  in  r^o  pneddio 
Centurioais  fidissirnt,  fortias: 
Tigilantiis :  qni  pie  ac  pladde  in 

Domiao  obdomurit, 
Octob.  18,  anno  1669,  sUtis  63." 
To  this  epitaph  are  subjoined  some  verses, 
probably  incorrectly  copied  by  M'Ure,  but  which, 
as  he  gives  them,  exhibit  the  peculiar  combination 
of  two  consecutive  hexameters  followed  by  a 
single  pentameter: — 

Genlja  honos,  virtntis  amor.  Ikma  iategra,  candor, 

ThnmKiDain  omabsnt  vivDin  i  nano  sre  perenni 
Firma  magis  (aniB  stant  monnmenta  dude,"  etc 

The  name  Thomson,  common  as  it  is  in  Scot- 
land generally,  is  of  singularly  rare  occuTrence  in 
the  oM  Qla^w  registers.  NosTHiun'. 

Ou)  VotUNTRKB  Corps,  —  Can  My  reader  of 
"N.  &  Q."  inform  me  where  I  can  find  pardculars 
of  the  Tolnnteer  coraa  formed  about  the  year 
1746,  more  particulatly  of  one  formed  in  London 
in  1744,  and  stated  by  the  OaOkman't  Magaaiu 
for  thai  year  to  be  composed  of  Swiss  residents, 
and  by  Wade's  Britidi  Hidon/  to  be  composed 
of  two  hundred  Swisa  ewvants,  and  commanded 
by  Colonel  Desjean  P  H.  L. 

VorAOEDB  PioKoss.  —  Being  very  much  in- 
terested in  "  Toyngeur  pigeons,  or  rather  in  the 
discovery  of  the  faculty  by  which  they  seek  thnr 
homes  from  extreme  distances,  I  should  fe^  veir 
grateful  to  any  of  your  readers  who  will  funiisB 
me  with  thrir  views  upon  the  mihiect.  The  Bel- 
gians, wbo  may  be  said  to  have  reduced  "  pigeon- 
flying  "  almost  to  a  science,  term  this  faculty 
"  orientation."  Now  the  nearest  rendering  of  thw 
term  I  take  to  be  "  the  power  of  finding  the  car- 
dinal points."  The  ^ffluh  IHgmn  AtnaUur  be- 
lieves they  shape  their  course  by  "landmarks." 
I  have  many  cases  which  cause  me  to  doubt  tU^  \ 
theory.  The  first  is,  a  bird  only  nine  weeks  old  M  C 
returned  from  a  dislanoe  of  seventy  milaa.  It  had 
never  before  been  half  a  mile  from  its  home ;  and 


4"'S.VII.  ApbilI,-?!.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


285 


A  Belgian  correepondeot  of  undoubted  veracity 
hftd  lately  an  old  oiid  that  had,  without  the  least 
traimng,  letumed  home  from  a  distance  of  two 
hundred  and  Beventy-aii  miles.  Whether  thie 
faculty  be  "instinct,"  "by  the  stars,"  "land- 
mark," or  yet  undiscovered  means,  ia  the  question 
I  am  anxioua  t«  have  solved. 

R.  W.  AiXDKinas. 

Old  ChailtoD,  Kent. 

[Our  coTKBpondent  will  find  Bome  intercBtiog  noHcos 
of  tha  early  uae  of  the  csrrier  pigeon  in  the  Penny  C^cbi- 
padia,  viL  872,  srt.  "  Colnmbidie  ";  Encydopadia  Bntm- 
nica,  vi.  176,  art.  "Carrier  Pigeon"  ;  Chambars's  Etkj/- 
dnpadia,  ii.  633;  Blackwood's  Edtitbur^h  Magazine,  vi. 
2[4  ;  and  Eiptej-  and  Dana's  !fac  Amtncaii  CyclopiBiia, 
iv.  483-485.  br.ZicharyOrey,  iDhisnotosoniTurfibnu, 
Part  11.  canto  1.  line  SS,  bu  ■  curious  one  on  then  esdj 

"  With  letters  hang  like  easlo^  pigeons." 
After  all.  perhapa,  the  beat  works  to  coneult  are,  W.  B. 
Tegetmeier'a  Pigiinu.llitir  Sinictiiri,VaTitHti,Hi^iU,nnd 
Ataaagauni,  with  Refiresentatiana  by  Harrieon  Weir, 
chaps,  viii.  and  ix.  Loud.  18Cg,  4to,  sod  Orbigney,  Dk- 
Abmuun  d'Hiiloire  yalunlle,  z.  167,  Ac] 

Welsh  WBsnnra  Cdbtok. — There  is  a  coiious 
custom  in  North  Wales  of  sending  a  small  quan- 
tity of  ginger,  or  in  some  places  a  hazel  stick  on  the 
day  of  the  wedding  of  some  fair  one,  to  the  man 
or  men  who  were  supposed  to  have  been  refnsed 
or  jilted  by  her.  Can  any  one  tell  me  the  origin 
of  this  custom,  or  if  it  is  piactiaed  elsewhere  F 

Y  Blaidd. 
JIeb.  Caiherinb  ZephtK. — Amongst  a  number 
of  old  prints  I  have  discovered  one  which  I  be- 
lieve  to  he  rather  scarce.    It  is  dated  June  30, 
1784,  and  represents  a  woman  holding  in  her  hand 
An  open  fan,  the  patten  of  which  she  is  atten- 
tively examining.    It  is  entitled  "  Mrs.  Catherine 
Zephyr,  the  celebrated  Fan  Vender,"  and  under- 
neath are  the  following  lines ; — 
"APacediigais'd  without  a  Huk, 
A  Waist  an  rooiid  u  any  Cask, 
A  Double  Chin,  a  short  Pag  Noh, 
And  like  a  Duck,  spreads  oat  her  Toes, 
Two  Paws  for  Anns,  a  Pair  of  Fiats, 
Well  lin'd  with  Fat  about  the  Wrists, 
A  great  Protaberance  bdiind, 
Blown  out  with  either  Flesh  or  Wind, 
Then  SDch  a  Tongue  1  to  iiear  her  apeak, 
Twonld  drown  jour  Hearing  for  a  Week. 
To  sum  the  whole,  search  thro'  her  Sex, 
To  matdi  her  would  Old  Nick  perplex." 
I  should  like  to  know  whether  this  scurrilous 
production  is  a  caricature  upon  some  great  per- 
sonage of  tTie  time,  or  whether  there  was  any  such 
person  as  Hrs.  Zephyr.    If  she  were  a  reu  cha- 
ractor,  I  should  be  glad  to  have  ai^  particulars 
about  her.  


oiowMoe  of  the  late  Edward  Hawkins.  E 


HtplUi. 

LONGS  AND  PALMERS  OF  BATH. 

(4"'  S.  vii.  76.) 

In  reply  to  that  portion  of  H.  P.'s  inquiry  rela- 
tive to  the  relationship  between  Mr.  Walter  Long 
of  Bath  and  John  Palmer,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  that 
city,  and  stated  to  be  through  the  Baynton  family 
of  the  Longs,  I  beg  to  offer  a  few  remarks.  They 
were,  as  your  correspondent  has  quoted  from 
Burke,  settled  at  Baynton— an  estate  purchased 
from  Danverg'a  by  Jolm  Long  of  Littie  Chevtill, 
who  died  1670;  and  Baynton  continued  in  the 
possesion  of  Longs  till  sold,  some  years  since, 
to  the  trnstees  of  Mr.  Watson  liylor.  No 
match  appears  in  the  pedi^es  of  Long  of  Wraxall 
(from  which  family  Mr.  Walter  Long  is  proved 
to  have  descended)  wbioh  could  have  produced 
relationship  between  Mr.  Palmer  and  the  wealthy 
commoner;  and  tkerefore  I  confine  myself  to  the 
Baynton  family  of  Long,  which  H.  P.  represents 
as  the  channel  of  the  relationship  which  he  asserts 
to  have  existed.  This  information  may  be  of  uae 
in  helping  his  future  invsstigation.  There  is  a 
monument  in  Edington  church,  in  which  parish 
Baynton  lies,  to  the  memory  of  a  Long  of  Bayn- 
ton, with  these  arms :  Long  of  Wraxall,  quartering 
2  and  3  Onedert  quarterly  az.  and  gules,  an  tocat- 
buncle  of  eight  staves,  or. 

Another  branch  of  the  same  line  of  descent  as 
the  Longs  of  Baynton  quartered,  with  the  coat  of 
Longs  of  Wrasul,  Hubbard  vert,  a  chevron  be- 
tween three  eaglea'  heads  erased  argent,  duc^f 
gorged  or.  Through  these  matches  H.  P.  may 
perhaps  establish  rkationship  between  Longa  <n 
Baynton  and  Palmers.  I  do  not  notioa  the  incorrect 
information  he  mves  as  to  the  ultimate  di^osal 
of  Mr.  Walter  Long's  great  wealth,  because  it 
seems  a  matter  of  private  concern,  and  the  ourioos 
may  obtain  all  particulars  by  refeniiig  to  lYeroga^ 
title  Probateifor  1807. 

Mr.  Jones  Long  had  only  a  partidpation  in  the 
income  of  the  estates,  certainly  not  testamentaiy 
heirship  to  Mr.  Walter  Long's  entire  fortune :  ha 
also  did  comply  with  the  condition  which  H.  P. 
tells  us  was  made  to  Mr.  Palmer,  and  which  lie 
so  unaccountably  refused  to  accept.  H,  P.  will 
find  an  elaborate  pedigree  of  Long  of  Wrakall 
and  of  litde  Chevrill  (same  as  of^Baynton)  in 
Walker's  Hiitory  o^  WraxaU  Houte,  compiled  by 
Mi.  BeltzandMr.  Charles  Edward  Long,  author  of 
Sa/al  DmcgHU.  The  late  Mr.  Long  of  Preehaw, 
for  more  than  fifty  years,  assiduously  collect^ 
every  fact  connected  with  tiie  Long  pedigree.  He 
has  given,  in  Burke's  Landed  Gentry,  all  the  evi- 
dence which  can  be  produced  in  sapport  of  the 
traditional  connection  between  the  Longs  of 
Wnaall  and  those  of  Little  ChevrilL  I  am  not 
aware  of  any  other  sources  of  information  spe- 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*8.VII.  Apbii.1, 


I  mar  mentioD  M  to  instance  ([wrhftps  Uie 
oldest)  that  the  Longs  of  Little  Chevrill  used  the 
same  arms  as  thow;  of  Wrazall,  that  the  will  of 
Thomas  hoag,  father  of  the  purchaser  of  Baynton, 
is  sealed  with  a  shield  bearing  a  lion  rampant 
within  an  orle  of  cross  croaalets,  and  impaling 
Floyer,  a  chevron  between  three  arrows.    E.  W. 


"  WHETHER  OR  HO." 
(4'"  S.  TU.  1420 
Being  among  those  who  wonid  rathet  bewioog 
with  Shakespeare  than  right  with  the  rest  of  the 
world,  I  cannot  allow  tliat  the  above  exprasaion 
is  "corrupt  English,"  nor  even  that  "there  maj 
be  two  opinions  on  the  subject."  Let  me  refer 
H.  A.  B.  to  £Mjr  John,  Act  II.  Sc  1. 167 :~ 

"  Sham*  upon  700,  whether  ibe  doea  or  Do." 
And  m   The  Merry  Wha  0/  Wmdm-  (Act  IV. 
8c.  6),  Simple  is  sent  witli  two  messagea  to  Sir 
John  Falstaff  fn>m  Slender — 

" to  know,  atr,  Tbcther  one  Nym,  sir,  that  be- 

galled  him  of  a  chain,  bad  the  chain  or  no." 
And  forthcp^ 

"...  abont  Hbtnis  Aone  Page ;  lo  know  if  it  were 
mr  maator'a  fortnn*  10  have  her,  or  no." 

C.  G.  Peowett. 
GartiokCInb. 

I  hasten  to  give  my  support  TeiT  decndedl^  to 
the  view  taken  br  M.  A.  B.  aa  to  the  impropriety 
of  saying"  Whetner  or  no"  instead  of  nof.  I  have 
been  for  yean  declaiming  a^unst  this  alovenl^, 
nngiammatdcal  way  of  speaking.    The  phrase  is 

Slainly  elliptical,  and  needs  only  to  be  dnwn  out 
I  fall  to  show  its  absudity  on  its  face.  I  wish, 
f(»inataace,totell  apenonthat  I  shall  go  to  such 
a  place,  whelhar  aome  other  event  happens  or 
does  not  happen.  Certainly  then  1  ought  to  tell 
him  that  I  anall  go  "  whether  (that  happens)  or 
tut,  that  is,  or  does  not  happen."  The  phrase 
"  whedwT  ra  Ro"  ia  rank  nonsense  in  the  opinion 
of  F.  C.  H. 

Tbe  epithet  "alip-shod  "  should  properly  be  ap- 
pEed  to  the  Engliah  of  those  who  onKnunmatically 
and  niogically  employ  the  phrnae  "  whether  or  not'' 
inatead  of  "whether  or  no,"  which  from  Alfred 
the  Oreat'a  lime  down  to  the  present  day  hss  been 
used  (vrith  some  slight  change  of  form)  by  the 
best  native  writen,  and  ia,  therefore,  thoiouf^hly 
fkiglish,  quite  grammatical,  and,  what  ia  more, 
logic^Uy  exact. 

1.  Tnoher  contains  a  comparative  snffix  -fher, 
and  originallv  mgnified  whitA  of  two  (cp.  ottar— 
one  of  two,  the  ffist  or  the  second  in  Old  Eoffliah). 
It  impliw^  therefore,  two  statements— an  affinna- 
tive  aa  well  as  a  nagatiTe  one ;  though,  in  the 
phrase  whether  or  no.only  the  negative  ia  expressed, 
"*i  nr  vea  being  ondetstood.  ■ 


2.  Conjnncdons join  sentences;  va  whether  or na 
the  two  sentencea  are  contracted,  yea  being  the 
contraction  of  an  affirmative  sentence,  and  no  of  a 
negative  one. 

The  complete  phrase  then  ia  whether,  yea  or  tu^ 
by  wliix^  we  see  that  not,  instead  of  no,  would  be 
incoirect  on  grammatical  and  logical  grounda.  It 
may  be  asked,  however,  ia  not  all  this  a  mere  lin- 
guistic theory  ?  Do  the  facts  of  the  written  lan- 
guage f  umiah  sufficient  proof  that  t^tether  or  no  := 
tohelha- yea  or  not  The  following  extracts  most, 
we  think,  satisfy  all  reasonable  mmds : — 

"Fint  it  U  danbtfull  whttha-  thoM  barbirons  Tartarisns 
do  know  mn  onicornes  borne,  jru  ot  ■»."  (Haklayt's 
Vofoga,  IGOO.  voL  iii.  p.  SO.) 

"...  a^ktAir  it  weie  an    " '  ■  - 

{lb.  p.  ai.) 

Eiog's  Collie,  London. 


R.M. 


"  BAKON  "  NICHOLSON.  . 
(4'»S.  tL477;  vii.  18.) 
The  Autobiography  of  thia  well-known  pnUic 
character  is  an  interesting  vet  Minful  KCord  of 
misused  abilities,  discreditable  adventures,  and  a 
generally  wasted  life;  but  is,  nevertheless,  worthy 
of  preservation  from  its  racy  and  humorous  style, 
audits  graphic  pictures  of  London  life.  Itsp^e% 
moreover.twill  be  found  to  afibid  a  rich  harreM  of 
anecdotes  of  well-known  characters  about  town, — 
sneh  for  instance  ss  Sir  John  Dean  Paul ;  Hanj 
Holt;  "  Pea-Oieen  "  Haynes ;  Robert  Taylor,  thft 
"Devil's  Chaplain";  Hughes  Ball,  of  "golden" 
notoriety ;  Charles  Molloy  Westmacott,  of  the 
^^  ,■  Edward  Oxford ;  "Ephemera"  Fitigibbon; 
Haydon  the  painter;  Meshach  Rowley:  John 
Minter  Hart;  Do&ene;  "Stunning"  Joe  Banka; 
and  a  host  of  others  who  strutted  and  fretted  their 
brief  hour  upon  life's  stage  at  the  same  period  aa 

It  is  perhaps  with  the  once  celebrated  weekly 
serial.  The  Toon,  that  the  name  of  Nicholaon,  its 
founder  and  manager,  is  most  intimately  aasociatad. 
The  fiist  number  of  this  appeared  June  S,  ISS7 ; 
the  price  weekly  waa  2(L,  end  it  was  long  con- 
tinued with  great  success.  The  chief  contributors 
were  the  editor ;  Henry  Pellatt,  the  "  Brongham" 
of  the  Judge  and  Jury  Society;  the  clever  but 
profligate  John  Dalrymple ;  J.  G-.  Canning;  Ed- 
ward Blanehard  ;  an^  not  imfrequenUy,  no  leee  a 
person  than  the  "  Doctor  "  himself,  the  late  Wil- 
liam M^E7"nL  LL.D, 

Of  the  origin  and  establishment  of  this  paper 
our  author  givea,  in  his  Atdobiogr^hy,  so  hu- 
morous and  int«reating  an  account,  that  I  am 
inclined  to  transfer  it,  in  a  condensed  form,  to 
these  pBges.  With  a  young  wife  depending  upon 
him,  and  utterly  devoid  of  means,  seedy,  hungry, 
ami  pennileai,  Mcholson  oammed  some  "copy  " 


fta.VII.APWi.],'71.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


in  bia  pocket,  and  proceeded  to  the  office  of  a 
printer,  whose  name  had  been  given  to  him — 
Mr.  Joseph  Last,  of  Edward  Street,  Hampatead 
Koad.  Here  he  had  to  leaTe  the  US.  for  the 
greatman'aperasal  at  leisure;  and  here,  returning 
at  nightf&ll,  the  packet  was  handed  to  him  bj  a 
aerrant,  with  the  curt  intimatinn  that  "  Master 
■aid  it  wouldn't  do."  Here  follow  some  philo- 
eophicnl  reflectioiiB,  which  I  am  tempted  to  qnote 
as  a  specimen  of  the  author's  strle.  Tbeper»onnel 
of  the  wortbj  "  Baron  "  is  fanmiar  to  manj  of  ua. 
His  figure  was  rotand  and  portly,  as  that  of  one 
who  was  wont  to  "  do  himself  well,"  and  it  was 
doubtlesB  his  own  feelings,  as  he  "tottered  down 
the  atepa  "  after  this  cruel  repulse^  that  suggested 
the  remarks  I  am  about  to  traoscnbe : — 

"Oh!  fiutidinus  readsT  ...  did  joa  ever  look  upon 
■  aeedy  fit  man  P  .  .  .  .  Fat  in  poverty  eidlca  no  ipn- 
patb^.  The  thoQghtlesg  u;,  'A  sreat  &t  fellow  like 
'  that  to  talk  aboat  being  aUrTing!  wbj  don't  havork, 
aod  get  soma  of  tbe  fleeh  off  hia  bone*,  the  laiy  vaga- 
boad  I  People  will  not  allow  that  any  fat  man  is  indos- 
triooa,  The  appearance  of  a  luit;  man  in  rags  ia  ex- 
.tremelj  ludicroni.  Tbe  hat  will  not  aaanme  itajann^ 
and  kDOwinglook  when  etuckon  one  aide,  if  old,  battered, 
and  mia-Bbapen;  the  coat  von't  meet  anyhow,  though 
■trained  and  polled  to  the  batton  ;  the  battoa  holes  have 
witbend,  and  notwithatandiDg  that,  the;  seem  to  breatbe 
a  detennlnatioa  with  vioieace  sometbiag  like,  '  I  won't 
come  to  I '  ...  ,  Like  a  dtueken  obstinate  fdlow  in  cos- 
todr,  the  button-boles  slip  down,  and  the  buttons  slip  off, 
and  DO  amonnt  of  fortitude  can  ever  auntain  a  seedy  ttl 
man  anbuttoned.  Tbe  verr  straps  struggle  with  the 
shabby  trowseni  to  control  'tbem,  ei  it  armii,  over  tbe  ' 
■habtnerhighlawi.  mmmonty  called  eiuchets.  The  walit- 
coat  bos  a  moat  aggravating  practice  of  rising  up,  in 
oaneequence  of  the  broadness  of  the  abdomen,  four  inches 
above  the  front  of  the  iraistband,  and  exporing  tbe  un- 
blaached  calico  of  the  under  gannent  ia  a  minuei  enough 
to  make  tbe  Busty  man  despair.  Oh,  amiable  reader  1 
don't  get  ht  if  yon  are  poor." — .^■to6uifra/iAy,  page  S32. 

But  enough  of  this,  perhaps;  a  "cool  half- 
pint,"  stood  by  a  sympathetic  fnend,  restored  the 
poor  author's  courage,  and  later  in  the  day  he 
renewed  the  attack  on  the  printer.  This  important 
pertonsge  was  buay;  he  had  not  had  time  to  read 
the  MS.,  &c ;  and  so  his  hungry  visitoi  invsted 
on  (tinng  him  a  taste  of  its  quality  himself.  He 
selected  the  story  of  "  Mr.  Sam.  wilkins  and  Mias 
Holly  Baggs,"  and  commenced  to  read  it  in  his 
rich  and  mellow  voice.  The  printer  listened  per- 
force, and,  in  spite  of  hiniself,  becsme  interested ; 
he  strove  long  to  maintain  bis  dignity,  but  the 
reader  came  at  last  to  "a  passage  ao  irresistibly 
comic,  that  Joe  coald  stand  it  no  longer."  He 
sank  back  in  a  fit  of  uncontrolUhle  laughter; 
■ompoaitorB  and  pressmen  heartily  j  coned ;  wd  tbe 
a«thor  knew  that  he  might  close  Us  reading;.  The 
paries  at  once  proceeded  to  bnsinesa,  and  it  was 
an^ged  that  the  aeries  of  talea  waa  to  be  pro- 
dnora  as  a  weekly  periodical ;  the  author  to  con' 
tribute  twelve  columns  a  week,  and  receive  3/. 
flverr  Satnidar  ni«ht    Mote  than  thia,  tbe  nan 


of  buHness  told  him  that,  "  as  be  was  going  to 
leave  the  manuscript,"  he  might  draw  a  poiind  on 
accounL    Hear  his  ovrn  description  of  nis  emo- 

"Aa  soon  as  I  heard  this  I  had  great  difDcnlty  in  re- 
stiaijiingmyBeir  from  leaping  up  and  cutting  six  in  my 
solelsA  Wellingtana.  I  waa  overjoyed ;  I  could  not  walk 
borne  J  I  jumped  home,  eveiy  inch  of  tbe  way,  grasping  ' 
the  soverelga  in  my  clenched  fist.  A  eover^n  is  a 
handy  tJiIng  when  there  are  no  coats  in  &e  cupboiud,  and 
that  was  tbe  case  with  me  before  I  got  the  ponnd." — 
Ibid,  page  239. 

These  humoioua  town  sketches  were  issued  in 
a  separate  fonn  uuder  tbe  title  of — 

"Cockney  Adventures  and  Tales  of  London  Life.  By 
Renton  Micbolson."  8vo,  London  (Clark,  Warwick 
Lane),  1888,  pp.  168. 

The  volume  conMsts  of  twenty-oue  penny  num- 
bers, with  woodcuts  to  each,  in  the  marked  and 
vigorous  style  of  "  C.  J.  G.,"  by  which  initials 
many  of  them  are  signed.  These,  like  the  tales 
which  they  illustrate,  are  laughably  comic ;  hut 
truth  compels  me  to  add,  though  Mb.  Jaoksos 
has  forgotten  this,  that  both  are  marked  by  a  fre- 
quent coarseness  (not  to  put  too  fine  a  ^int  upon 
it),  which  necessitates  therelegatioDof  theTClurae 
to  an  upper  shelf. 

Bound  up  with  these  talea,  and  illuatcated  also 
by  ''  C.  J.  0.,"  are  two  other  ephemeral  imitationa 
of  Dickens,  which  appeared  about  the  same  period. 
One  is  entitled — 

■  Papera  of  the  Cadgers'  Clob,  eon- 


tion  them  among:  his  literuy  achievements,  I  am 
thrown  into  doubb  I  collected  them  at  the  time 
of  their  publication,  and  imagine  that  it  would 
now  be  imposaible  to  recover  copies.  They  are 
not  devoid  of  a  certmn  talent,  but  this  is  not  suf- 
ficient to  stimulate  much  curiosi^  as  to  their 
origin.  The  initials  "  C.  J.  Q."  indicate  the  cari- 
caturist,  Charles  Jameson  Qiant,  an  artist  who,  in 
his  narrow  vi'alk,  though  coarse  in  sentiment,  and 
mannered  in  execution,  waa  not  without  a  certain 
amount  of  ready  vifforous  power.  Of  hia  artistic 
career  very  litUe  is  Known. 

I  muat  not  forget  to  chronicle  a  slender  and 
not  ill-written  booalet — 

"  The  Cigar  and  Smoker's  Companion,"  8vo,  Limdon 
(C.  Ticker^,  pp.  16. 

But  at  this  period  the  carea  of  the  "Genick'a 
Head"  and  tbe  midniKht  duties  of  the  "  Judn 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*  8.  VU.  Apkil  1,  '71. 


snd  JuiT  Society  "  monopolised  our  author's  ener- 
gies, and  !eft  no  time  for  the  cultiTalioii  of  litera- 
ture.   About  Ato  years  later  we  have  — 

"Dombey  audDioehter  :  a  Moral  Fiction.  ByBenton 
Xicholaon,  Lord  Cbief  Baron  of  tbe  Celebnlad  Judge  and 
Jury  Society,  held  at  the '  Ganiok'a  Head  HotalT  Bow 
Street,  London.  Pubtiihed  by  Thomu  Fmiria,  840,  Stnod. 
Sold  by  ths  Bookselleta."    Boyal  8™,  n.  d,  pp.  94, 

Here  end*  my  knowledge  of  the  literary  doings 
of  Renton  Nicholaon,  for  whom,  without  reapect 
t«  his  private  character,  I  claim  a  record  io  theae 
columns  aa  a  journalist  and  author. 

■William  Batis. 

Birmiugham. 


THE  SWAN-SOSG  OF  PARSON  AVERT. 

(4'»S.tL483;  Tii.  20, 148.) 

Your  correspondent  E.  W.    ia  wide  of  the 

truth    in  hia    sunuiaea    about  Newbury.     Naw- 

heme  in  North   Carolina  ia   more  properly  New 

Berne.      "  It    datives   its   name  irom  Bern,  the 

Silace  of  nativity  of  Christopher,  Baion  of  Graaf- 
enreidt,  who  in  1709  emigrated  to  this  state  and 
settled  near  this  place.  The  colonists  were  Pala- 
tines and  Swiss.  (Wheeler'a  Hidory  of  Xorth 
Caroiina,  p.  110.)  The  true  Newbury  of  the 
ballad  is;a  seaport  on  Massachusetts  Bay,  and 
derives  its  name,  as  Cotton  Mather  aaya  in  hia 
MagnaUa,  from  the  fact  that  the  first  mmister  of 
tlie  town.  Rev.  Thomas  Parker,  had  resided  in 
Newbury,  England.  "  From  tnence  removing 
with  several  devout  Chris|iaDS  out  of  Wiltshire 
into  New  England,  he  was  orduued  their  paator 
at  a  town  (on  his  and  their  accounts  called  New- 
berry. Thomas  Parker  was  the  only  son  of  Rev. 
Rohtrt  Parker,  a  nonconformist  divine  of  note, 
was  admitted  to  Magdalen  College,  Oxford,  but 
went  thence  to  Dublin  and  finally  to  Leyden.  Be 
died  unmarried,  April  1677,  aged  about  eighty- 
two  years. 

As  to  Parson  Avery,  the  Rev.  Joseph  Avery 
was  a  worthy  minister,  who  was  coming  to  found 
a  church  at  Marblehead,  another  seaport  in  Mas- 
aachusetta  Bay.  Swiing  from  Newbury  in  a  pin- 
nace, Aug.  14,  1635,  on  tbis  brief  trip,  having  on 
board  his  family  and  that  of  his  couam  Anthony 
Thatcher,  the  vessel  was  lost  in  a  sudden  storm, 
and  only  Thatcher  and  his  wife  escaped.  The 
next  island  is  called  Thatcher'a  Woe,  and  the 
rock  Avery's  Fall  The  story  is  one  known  to 
all  who  have  examined  our  coloaial  annals  j  and 
Whittier  has  onlyfoUowed  the  current  authorities 
in  bis  veiaion.  The  title  "swan-song 
by  Mather. 

Aa  we  know  nothing  of  Joseph  Avery's  ante- 
cedents, any  information  about  him  which  E.W. 
can  furnish  would  be  gladly  received  here. 
Anthony  Thatcher  (Averts  conrin)  was  brother 
of  Bev.  Petra  Dtatcher,  rector  of  St  Edmund's, 


Salisbury,  whose  son,  Bev.  Thomas  Thatcher,  also 
came  to  New  England  and  founded  a  prosperous 
and  distiaguiahed  family  here.  Tbomaa  nad  a 
brother  Paul  living  at  Saliaburv  m  1676,  and  a 
brother  John  who  had  died  there  about  1673. 
These  American  Thatchers  used  a  coat-of-arms  of 
"  a  cross  moline,  on  a  chief  three  grasshoppers." 

There  were  several  early  colonists  named  Avery, 
one  being  WiUiiun  Avery,  a  physician,  who  aetUea 
at  Bedham,  Mass.  His  immediate  dsscendanti 
used  as  arms  '*  a  chevron  between  three  beianta } 
creat,  two  lion's  yambs  supporting  a  bezant." 

If  E.  W.  has  access  to  the  parish  regiater  at 
Newbury,  ca  Berks,  and  can  give  a  list  of  the 
names  appearing  therein  about  1620-1636, 1  ahall 
gladly  try  to  identify  am  of  our  settlers  here. 

W.  H.  Whumoee. 

B*»ton,  C.S.A.  

The  name  of  Avei7,orEveiT,isfoundatBodmia 
at  an  earlv  date,  and  exiata  deie  at  the  preseat 
time,  whether  or  not  the  names  are  distioct,  or 
whether  the  difierence  in  the  orthography  is  simply 
a  varialiou  in  writing  the  same  name,  seams  some- 
what uncertain.  I  incline  to  the  former  view, 
The  first  notice  of  the  name  with  which  I  am 
acquainted  is  in  1310;  in  which  year  Thomaa 
Aurey  was  assodated  with  the  prior  of  Bodmin 
and  others  ui  a  suit  concerning  five  hnndicd  acres 
of  land  at  Halgaver,  near  Bodmin  (see  my  Sitt.  of 
Trigg,  p.  127).  The  name,  however,  does  not 
occur  in  the  accounts  for  rebuilding  the  pariah 
church  in  1470,  to  which  work  most,  if  not  all,  of 
the  inhabitants  contributed.     Michael  Avery  was 


occur  among  those  of  the  nurgesaes  in  Parliament 
or  their  manucaptors.  The  parish  registers  com- 
mence  in  I6GS,  and  the  name  of  Avery  is  among 
the  first  found  therein ;  — 

1660.  JohHQ,  the  daoghter  of  Thomaa  Aveiy,  was  bap- 
tized May  2Gth. 

15G3,  Thoml^tl1e■aa  ofThomuAvery.irasb^iied. 

1669.  Walter  Aveiye  and  Orige  Wiiliima  ware  atar- 
Tlad  Sept.  Sth. 

1669.  Hichdl  Averye  was  buried  Sept.  3Sth. 
There  are  many  otier  entries  of  the  name. 

The  name  of  Averv  is  found  also  in  the  records 
of  the  boroogh  of  Liskeard,  of  which  borough 
Thomaa  Avery,  a  Royalist,  was  appointed  mayor 
in  1669.  He  made  some  cbaribuile  bequest  to 
the  town.  The  name  is  also  found  at  BDBCMtle 
and  Camelford.  To  the  former  place  the  late 
Mr-  Avery,  a  merchant,  vnia  a  great  benefactor  in 
improving  the  harbour  and  trade  of  the  [>ort. 

The  preeant  family  of  Every,  of  Bodmin,  is  le- 
liered  to  fa«  desocoded  &om  a  family  of  the  atme 
name  fonnarly  settled  at  8t,  Neot  in  OommU,.  |p 
respecting  vrhioh  entries  occur  in  the  pawiiwS 
regiatera  of  that  parish  as  soon  aa  they  commeno^ 
J<An  Svery  and  Thomas  Every,  rei^ectivetyt  had 


*«•  S.  VII.  Apbii.  1,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


289 


childreD  baptked  between  the  yesra  1567  fuxl 
1577.  The  present  representativeof  the  funilj  of 
Every  of  Bodmin  ia  tna  Rev.  Nicholas  T.  Every, 
Vicar  of  St  Kew,  co.  ComwalL 

I  will  not  tiespaaa  further  on  Mi.  Editor's 
Idndaeaa,  but  shall  bnre  pleasure  in  usweriDg  as 
far  as  I  can  anj  inquiries  which  Hebmbhtkudb 
IDAv  dssire  to  make  oiracL  John  Maoleah. 

hammersmith. 

Mareiabb  0?  Ebolish  Pbinckebbs  {4""  S.  vii. 
203.) — I  Buppoae  the  last  instance  of  a  princess 
mfoTjsDg  a  British  subject,  wUhma  the  royal  atienl, . 
waa  the  Princeaa  Mary,  sixth  child  of  Hemy  YII. 
and  uster  of  Henry  VlII^  who  clandestinely 
married  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  in 
Clugny  Abbey  in  1615. 

The  princess, 
TVance,  was  re-married  t«  the  di 
in  the  aame  year;  and  becoming  by  him  the 
grandmother  of  the  unfortunate  Lady  Jane  Orey, 
departed  this  life  June  25,  1533,  atlier  manor  « 
■Uesthorpe  in  Suffolk.  W.  H.  S. 

InsusTitTES  OF  EiKGLAND  (4*  8.  Tii.  209.) — 
B.  J.  T.  is  doubtless  aware  that  a  very  curious  list 
«f  books  about  special ''  industries  "  mi^ht  easily 
be  compiled,  ana  I  could  make  a  carious  cata- 
logue even  from  my  own  shelves.  His  quer^  is 
TOubably  meant,  however,  for  general  treatises, 
He  will  remember  many  well  worth  reading  in 
Lardner's  Cabmat  Cychpadia,  especially  the  three 
volumes  on  "Manufactures  in  Metal,"  the  one  on 
"  Silk,"  &c.  &C.  A  most  interesting  and  valuable 
example  was  set  after  Uie  visit  of  the  British 
Aasnoation  to  Newcastle-on-Tvne,  when  a  small 
volume  waa  published,  and  afterwards  e^|>anded 
into  the  following  work  : — 

"Tbc  Indnatrial  Roonrceg  of  tha  three  Northern 
Blren,  the  Tvne,  Wtir,  aad  Tees,  incladlDetbe  Reporta 
<m  the  Local  MBDiifactiires  read  betore  the  Brlliah  Aiso- 
dation  tn  1863,  edited  hy  Sir  W.  G.  Arnutrour.  J.  Low- 
thiau  Dell,  John  Tajlor.and  Dr.  Ricbardnn.  With  Notes 
and  Appeodicea,  fllostisted  with  Maps,  Plant,  and  Wood- 
cDgTsviDea.  London ;  LoDgmans  Si  Co.  (Sod  «d.)  1864. 
<Pp.  lUi.  862.) 

The  meeting  of  the  Britiah  AssodatiOD  at  Bir- 
mingham inldoSptodnced  a  similar  volume  under 
the  title  — 

"The  ResonnM^  Producta,  and  Indoatrial  Historj  of 
Binnic^rham  anil  the  Midland  Hardware  Dislrict.  A 
Series  of  Reporta  collectsd  by  the  Local  Induitries  Com- 
mittec  of  the  British  AsBodeilnn  at  Birmingham  ia  188l>. 
Edited  hv  Sam.  Timmiaa.  London :  Bobert  Hardnioke, 
1866.     [Pp.iv.738.] 

These  two  volumes  give  so  much  ori^al  and 
valaable  inTomation  that  tt  is  to  be  regrettod 
that  the  example  has  not  been  followed  in  other 
localities,  and  that  Ae  large  masa  of  facts — often 
&stperiahiDg — concerning tiie  industrial  hiatorvof 
Ikigland  have  not  been  collected  and  preserved. 

ESTS. 


Rash  Staibstebis  (4'"  S,  vii.  232.  273.) — 
AH  that  I  have  to  say  to  Claret's  strictures  is, 
that  in  nijr>  edition  of  Gibbon,  London,  1818,  at 
vol  i.  ch.  V.  p.  168,  the  words  stand  as  1  have 
quoted  them.  This  is  styled  a  "  new  edition," 
and  was  published  only  twenty-four  years  after 
the  author's  death.  So,  after  all,  it  ia  only  edition 
against  edition ;  and  with  no  show  of  justice  can 
1  be  charged  as  "  guilty  of  a  rash  statement." 
Dear  old  Fuller's  accuracy  and  honesty  are  too 
well  established  to  be  shaken  easily,  and  I  have 
very  grave  doubts  as  to  their  having  failed  him 
here.  My  edition  of  the  Holy  and  Prophane  Stale 
is  that  of  Tegg,  London,  1841,  with  notes  by 
James  Nichols.  The  reference  is  not  given  in  the 
teiL  but  in  a  foot  note  by  the  editor.  In  addition 
to  lllraan  Bredenbach,  Ik  Belio  Livon.,  he  gives 
Kts-Herbert,  Of  Policy  and  X^igion,  pt.i.  cb.iiv. 
ErMDND  Tew,  TVt.A. 

Why  dobs  a  »bwi.t  boek  Child  cbi  P  (4*  S. 
vii.  211.)  —  Goldsmith  says  somewhere,  "  We 
wept  when  we  came  into  the  world,  and  evety 
moment'tells  ua  wby."  1  have  tried  to  find  it, 
but  without  Bucoeat.  Some  one  will  perhaps  re- 
collect the  passage  and  give  the  reference.  My 
disappointinent  was  however  compensated  by  the 
re&eahing  pleasure  of  looking  at  old  Goldy  again. 
I  would  supplement  the  query  by  asking,  do  oni 
young  men  ever  read  the  old  authors  P  My  ob- 
servation is  that  a  penny  paper  is  thnr  chief 
pabulum,  colouring  a  meerschaum  their  amuse- 
ment, with  an  occasional  glance  at  the  SatnfAn/ 
Seniao  as  a  higher  intellectual  effort.     Clabsx. 

Knio'B  Coi,LB«E,  New  Tom  M-*  S.  vi.  622.)— 
A.  J.  M.  asks,  what  is  known  of  the  history  and 
fate  of  the  King's  College  at  Kew  York  P  It  ia 
impossible  to  answer  him  in  a  letter;  and  I  can 
only  say  that  the  King's  College  still  exists  under 
the  name  of  Columbia  College. 

I  have  sent  to  you  by  mail  the  statntes  and  the 
last  Univenity  Oatalogue  which  contain  the  in- 
formation fbr  which  he  asks. 

BsvERLFf  B.  Belts. 
librarian  of  Columbia  Ooileee. 

Sew  York. 

Mrs.  Dowmino  (4'"  S.  vii.  142.)— Mrs.  Down- 
ing ("Cbristabel")  is  not  dead;  she  is  still  living, 
mth  her  husband,  who  has  been  fcr  many  vears 
<me  of  the  parliamentary  corps  of  the  Daily  f/twi, 
and  was  for  the  greater  part  of  the  time  of  the 
wtting  of  the  late  cooscil  at  Rome  the  Roman 
correapondent  of  that  paper.  His  brother,  Mr. 
MacCarthy  Downing,  M.P,,  ute  in  the  House  of 
Commons  aa  renreaentative  for  the  county  of 
Cork.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Downing  until  latelv  Uved 
at  Gumming  Street,  Fentcmville,  but  I  Delieve  i 
th«r  address  bow  is  Hildrop  Crescent,  OiHndtnJ  |  C 
Town.  Mrs.  Downing  was  bom  at  Kenmare  in ' 
the  county  of  Kerry.    I  am  unable  to  give  any 


290 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[I'fcS.TII.  APBn.1, 


dates,  nor  crd  I  say  -whethet  ker  poems  have 
been  publiabed  is  a  collected  fonn.         W.  O'C. 

P.S.  I  bare  learned  tbat  Mra.  Dowmoe'e  poems 
were  published  about  twenty  years  ago  ny  Alex- 
ander Thorn  of  Dublin,  under  Ibe  title  of  Scri^a 
from  the  Mountatiu  by  Chriitabelle. 

Chepstow =EsTBisH0i2L  (4'»  S.  tiL  34.)  — 
Tbia  is  no  doubt  the  place  intended  by  the  passage 
in  Domesday  Book,  out  how  it  came  to  bare  two 
names  no  one  baa  yet  ezpluned.  Leland  calls 
the  founder  of  Tinterne  "Dominua  de  StroghUl 
alias  Chepstow."  Castell  Tromy.  some  ten  miles 
from  Chepstow,  is  sometimes  callea  Strigoil  Castle, 
but  I  do  not  know  on  what  authority,  although  I 
believe  within  the  honoui  of  StrigoiU 

As  to  the  derivation  of  this  name,  without  at- 
tempting one  myself,  I  can  only  refer  0.  E.  W.  to 
an  explanation,  which  I  fear  is  sufficiently  far- 
fetched, given  by  Leland  (/Hut.  ix.  101),  quotmgan 
annotation  on  the  poet  Necham  (abbot  of  Ciren- 
cester, 1216-25)1  "Strata  Julia,  cujus  pontem 
construxit  Julius  (Cn.  J.  Agrieola  intended)  quod 
ynlgd  Stn^olium  dicitur."  In  this  pamage  B 
bridge  at  Chepstow  is  of  course  meant;  however, 
this  appellation  of  the  Roman  toad  which  iin- 
doubtealy  crossed  the  Wye  here  is  as  old  as 
Necham,  for  he  mentions  it  more  than  once,  but 
it  is  now  generally  confined  to  the  way  firom  Bath 
to  St  David's,  in  consequence  of  the  statement  of 
the  dubious  Richard  of  Cirencester  (xi  Iter.  "  per 
Tiam  Juliam.")*  A.  S.  Ellis. 

BromptOD. 

DsscBiiDAirTS  OP  JEitEvr  Tailor  (i"*  3.  vii. 
143^ — There  can  be  no  persons  living  of  the  name 

of  Taylor  who  are  Saeal  descendants  of  Bishop 
Taylor,  as  that  eminent  divine  left  no  male  issue. 
One  of  tbe  bishop's  daughten  and  co-beitesws, 
JUary,  married  Dr.  Fnmcis  Marsh,  subeeqaentlv 
Archbishop  of  Dublin.  Tbe  present  Francis 
Marsh,  Bsq.,  of  Springmount,  Queen's  County,  a 
descendant  from  tnat  marriage,  might  be  able  to 

g've  J.  some  further  particuUrs  as  to  Uie  Taylor 
mily.  Mr.  Marsh  possesses,  as  an  heirloom  in 
bis  family,  a  very  good  portrait  of  his  ancestor 
Jeremy 'Taylor.  C.  S.K. 

St.  Ptta'a  Sqnan,  Hsmmenmitb,  W. 

Hair  bsovtsq  after  Death  (4"  S.  vi.  624 ; 
vii.  66,  83,  130,  222.)— When  the  remains  of 
Napoleon  the  Great  were  about  to  be  transferred 
from  St  Helena  to  France,  according  to  his  wish, 
to  repose  on  the  borders  of  the  Seine,  on  the 
various  coffins  being  opened,  to  the  astonishment 


*  In  my  not«  on  the  "  Bahan  Fimilj- "  (1<I>  9.  vi.  46G), 
the  names  of  the  noble  twins,  Edward  aod  William,  were 
■oddciitall  J  omitted.  They  wen  bom  at  CiIdMott  Cutle, 
-irCfaepnow.  ibont  IStS.    This  fset,  slthoogh  tbe  only 


of  aU  bystanders,  amone  whom  were  his  old  com- 
panicHiB  in  captivity,  ob  corpse  appeared  in  a 
wonderful  state  of  preeervatioo,  and  the  beard 
and  nfuls  were  fotma  to  have  grown  after  be  had 
been  inhumated.  P.  A.  L. 

The  old  Qenllemon  at  Turvey  "  mikes  a  re- 
spectful bow  to  theyounggentleuisn  who  favoured 
"  N.  &  Q."  with  remarks  on  the  above-named 
subject  on  February  11  last  The  lady,  the  growth 
of  whose  beantiful  bur  after  death  the  old  gen- 
tieman  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing,  was  tbe  second 
wife  of  one  of  the  Lords  Mordaunt  of  Turvey, 
who  lived  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  She 
was  buried  in  a  grave,  the  bottom,  sides,  and  top 
of  which  were  composed  of  thin  stones  taken  from 
a  neighbouiing  quarry,  and  which  had  been  tooled 
roughly  with  tne  hammer  on  their  upper  and  under 
uses.  The  lady  probably  bad  long  hair  duiing 
her  life,  as  the  young  gentleman  interestingly 
suggests.  The  upper  part  of  the  coffin  around  tha 
head  was  filled witn  hair,  which  had  pressed  itself 
into  all  tbe  irregularities  and  indentations  of  the 
stones,  taking  their  form  almost  as  completely  as 
plaster  of  Paris  woold  do  that  of  the  monld  into 
which  it  was  poured ;  or,  as  may  be  often  seen, 
the  roots  of  pluits  tbat  of  the  flower-pets  in  which 
they  have  been  long  growing.  The  hair  had  also 
insinuated  itself  through  the  interstices  between 
the  atones,  and  was  found  outside  the  coffin  in 
rather  long  spiral  filaments. 

The  Om  OmnxRUAir. 
Torv^  Abbey,  Bedfbrd, 

Moor  Park  (4**  S.  vu.  209.)— The  Moor  Park 
described  by  Sir  William  Temple  is  in  Surrey, 
between  Fambam  and  Waverly,  and  not  in  Hert- 
fordshire. He  removed  to  tbat  place  when  he  left 
Sheen.  V. 

[If  car  comqwodent  reftrste  Sr  William  Temple's 
■UUment  (H'orit,  ilL  327-8,  ed.  1770),  hs  will  find  that 
aur  querist  was  correot  "  Tbe  perfecteat  figars  of  a 
tcarden  I  ever  uw,  utfaer  at  home  or  abroad,  was  that  of 
Hoor  Park,  in  Heiti'Drdihire,  when  I  knew  it  about  thirty 

vesn  ago It  wis  made  by  the  Counteaa  of 

Bedftml,"  &c,  are  th<  words  of  Sir  William  Temple  ; 
and  hla  dascription  of  it  is  nich  as  may  well  excite  a 
wish  for  farther  particulars. — H.D.  *>N.  &  Q") 

Clam  McAlpim  (4"  S.  vii.  189.)— Tbe  descend- 
ants of  King  Alpin  are  supposed  to  have  formed 
tbe  clan  Aloin.  According  to  Douglas's  Baron' 
age,  the  aucient  seat  of  the  clan  was  Dunstaff- 
nage.  At  present  the  dan  Alpin  is  represented 
bv  its  branches,  tbe  Macgregors,  Mackiimoiu,  && 
The  Macalpins  of  the  present  day  (by  no  means 
a  numerous  sept)  I  believe  to  be  descended  bom 
Macgregors,  and  to  have  assumed  the  name  when 
that  of  Mat^regor  was  proscribed. 

Who,  knowing  the  history  of  the  Highlands 
and  its  clans,  and  of  the  clan  Gregor  in  particular. 
with  all  its  forimtiues  and  proscriptions,  would 
expect  to  find  in  the  cbartei-room  of  the  present 


4'»S.TILAwin.l,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


29L 


chief  A  aeries  of  title-deeds  and  other  munimeDts 
eetablishbff  the  dencent  of  the  vuioua  chiefs  from 
Kenneth  lucftlidn  !*  Mas. 

In  the  notes  appended  to  Clan-Alpm'»  Vow  (by 
Alex.  Boswell)  reference  ia  made  to  the  genealogy 
of  this  mystiiMl  nice,  which  maf  be  of  service  to 
JBirquiKBK  (note  1) : — 

"The  geoulogiit  of  ths  Micalpioa  and  Macgngora 
umaoMinlhe  Baronagt  of  ScBlboHltbMj'a  conODoa  with 
tlM  other  descaodanta  of  Kina  Alpin,  thej  considered 
fbemsetTes  «  onii  people  ;  and  that  thoM  who  bad  pre- 
nooilr  amuned  tha  name  of  Macalpin,  doobtlen  to 
propitiate  the  aid  of  tha  mare  nnmeroas  MaceregorB, 
adopted  tbeir  name,  and  were  thni  nnited  to  that  dan. 


id  all 

There  an  ssTeml  copious  notes  fi;iTen  in  the 
same  work  relative  to  this  clan.     W.  Wikters. 

WaHbam  Ahbejr. 

Babies*  Bblls  (4'*  S.  vL  476;  tu.  21,  133, 
201.)— 


"Her  iafant  grandame'a  whiitle  next  it  grew. 
The  belli  >he  jli^led,  and  the  whbtle  blew." 

Bape  o/Oe  Lock,  canto  v.  9S. 

W.  J.  Be&nhabd  Shtth. 

Temple. 

Letteb  FBOii  Oliteb  CSOICVSLL,  1066  (4"'  S. 
-vii.  IDO.) — Your  conwpondent  Eun  mentions 
his  havins  a  copy  of  a  letter  that  Cromwell  pro- 
posed sendlnK  to  the  "EmperourSulton  Mahomet," 
and  of  whicn  the  death  of  Sir  Thomas  Bendiah 
prevented  the  deliven-.  Would  Elam  object  to 
the  publication  of  the  letter  P  for,  though  the 
sultan  never  received  it,  one  would  lilte  to  know 
Old  Noll's  views  regarding  the  Turkey  of  the 
period.  W.  H. 

"Thb  Crazy  Talw"  (4"'  S,  vii.  154.)— This 
work  was  most  certainly  written  by  John  Hall 
Stevenson,  as  stated  by  the  Editor  of  "N.  &  Q." 

ivt  mqtra).  Some  account  of  the  author  may  be 
ound  in  Holland's  RteU  of  YorkMre,  About 
thirty  yean  ago  an  edition  of  the  Talei  was  pub- 
lished in  London  by  some  obscure  bookeeller, 
whose  name  haa  escaped  me.  On  the  title-p^e 
was  "by  Richard  Bnnsley  Sheridan "~an  evi- 
dent mislAke.  The  tales  are  not  without  merit 
and  wit,  but  many  of  them  are  very  licentions ; 
in  fact  much  worse  than  anytliing  to  be  met  with 
in  Rabelais,  from  whom  many  of  tha  stories  ve 
derived.  I  have  seen  an  e^tion  (trithout  any 
name  on  the  title)  printed  at  the  close  of  the 
last  century.  The  publisher  was  one  Griffits  or 
Griffiths.  N. 

CKTPTOoaAPHY  ^A-*  S.  vii.  166.)  — The  paper 
by  J.  R.  C.  is  both  mtereeting  and  instructive. 

He  cryptographs :  — 

"Don't  back  black  horse.  I  have  learnt  that 
he  will  be  scratched." 

"  Send  immed^tely  three  rags.  Inf.,  one  Cav., 
two  F.  Batteries,  to  lelief  of  N." 


And  concludes  his  communication  with  an  artifice, 
instead  of  thus  correctly  involving  (3) :  — 

28,29,32,20—42^,23—20,25,21,21,23,32. 
which  deciphered,  is  — 
"  Find  the  decat" 

As  J.  R.  C.  is  evidently  an  adept  in  crypto- 
^phy,  I  shall  be  pleased  if  he  can  explain  the 
mvolation  and  evolution  of  this  cryptogram  — 
0018210710170817060721 
2508231821061826141406 
1817121907— 
which  I  have  constructed  on  the  baus :  — 
ABCDEFOSIJKLM   NO 
1    2  3  4    6  6  7  8    9  10  11  12  13  14  15 
P   Q  R    S    T    U  V  W  X  ¥  Z 
16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  26  26 
as  he  will  thereby  testify  to  the  value  and  utility 
of  experts  in  cryptic  evolution. 
The  cryptologue  ia — 

"  The  Spirit  seaichetb  all  things." 

(See  1  Uor.  ii.  10.) 
J.  Bbalb. 

Bacoh's  Queen's  Coudselshif  (4*  S.  vii.  188.) 
The  first  Queen's  Counsel  was  Fronm,  afterwards 
Lord  Bacon,  on  whom  the  dignity  was  conferred 
honora  causd  in  IStX) — he  receiving  neither  fee 
nor  patent.  Shortly  after  the  accession  of  James  L 
he  was  appointed  King's  Counsel — this  time  with 
a  salary  ot  forty  pounds  and  a  premium  of  sixty. 
It  ia,  doubtiess,  upon  the  former  diatinclion  that 
his  biographer  enlarges  in  the  passage  quoted  by 
your  correspondent;  for  at  the  time  of  its  being 
conferied  Bacon  was  only  in  bis  thirtieth  year, 
an  age  at  which  a  barrister  was  not  considered  to 
have  finished  his  legal  education.  According  to 
the  jurists  of  the  time,  barristers  were  atyled 
apprentices  {appreniica  ad  legtm),  and  not  thought 
qualified  to  execute  the  full  office  of  aa  advocato 
until  of  sixteen  years'  standing,  when  they  might 
be  called  to  the  degree  of  setgeant,  and  thus  be- 
came iervitj>i«t  ad  legem.  Bacon  could  scarcely 
have  been  selected  on  account  of  hia  eminence, 
for  we  know  that  at  this  time  he  waa  quarrelling 
^th  hia  profession ;  and  that  in  1594,  when  he 
waa  revised  the  SoUcitonhip,  the  queen  expressed 
a  very  poor  opinion  of  his  ability,  remarking  that 
he  was  a  showy  lawyer  rather  than  a  profound 
one.  I  may  here  observe,  that  the  Ena/dopiedia 
Sritatmica  falls  into  the  popular  error  of  eaying 
that  the  present  Queen's  CoiuiBel  receive  a  salary. 
JuLiAfl' Shaskait. 

PisxoK  Post  (4*  S,  vii.  186.)— Other  birds 
beddes  pigeons  have  been  used  as  letter-carriers, 
as  witneee  the  following  from  j£lian'B  Sttoiy  of. 
Atumak,  book  I.  chap.  vii.    I  spare  your  BpBCe|(^ 
the  Greek,  and  give  Addison's  transbtion :  —      ' 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[**8.TII.  Apeii.1,'71. 


"In  Bg7pt,aMrtlN  lika'Moarl^wlun  Mum1«  tlw  d^ 


thkt  tbia  jtj  wu  bionght  up  by  on*  of  the 
callsd  Sfarrha,  whoso  letters  it  carried  whsreTer  Tie 
pieaaeA  to  Kiid  them ;  that  when  thej  gave  it  direotions, 
it  readily  understood  whicb  way  to  tuin  its  flight,  what 
plaoaa  it  shoold  pass  over,  and  where  to  Hc^.  Wbto  it 
wai  daad,  Harrlies  bokonnd  it  with  an  tpitaph  and 

UlBUH. 

RoBKBT  FmKiBvvTB,  OK  Habtus  (4"*  3.  tL 
414,617;  vii.  222.) —  NnaiQO  muat  sunlj  be 
joking  when  he  asks  whether  til  the  persons 
bearing  the  Chrisdan  name  of  Hervey  in  the 
Index  of  Uucheeae's  Norman  Chrtmieltrt  are  "  of 
the  mme  or  different  families."  He  mig^t  m  well 
ask  the  mme  qoeetdoo  about  all  the  Roberts  or 
'WtlltBiaa  in  the  same  Index.  The  Dukes  of  Or- 
leftiu,  with  whom  be  seems  so  familiar,  are  oom- 
pletei;  unknown  to  the  learned  authors  of  Art 
ae  Verifier  let  Dates,  who  are  reputed  to  be  the 
beet  Buthoritj  on  such  a  subject.  On  the  other 
hand,  Hobert  Pits  Emeis,  his  ancestty  and  de- 
scendsntB,  are  perfectlf  well  known  tf)  all  who 
are  acquainted  with  Anglo-Norman  genealogies, 
and  there  is  ample  proof  that  neither  his  father 
nor  grandfather  were  the  sons  of  any  Duke  of 
Orleana  or  of  Burgundy.  It  would  seem  that  all 
NncBon's  s^eciUations  have  arisen  out  of  a  ludi- 
crous mispnat  of  Rtz-Hen«is  for  fltz-Herneis. 
The  Herreya  of  Ickworth  have  long  enjoyed  too 
high  a  rank  and  position  in  Enstaud  to  require  a 
fictitious  genealogy,  to  wUcb  they  hare  no  his- 
torical pretensions.  Tkwass. 

"  Et  faoibi  Sckibbkda,  XTa"  (4*^  S.  vii.  209.) 
R  win  find  these  words  in  the  youDger  Pliny's 
celebrated  letter  to  Tacitus  deecritdng  the  death 
of  his  uncle,  the  elder  Pliny.  After  adverting  to 
the  eternal  fame  to  which  the  writings  of  Tadtus 
were  destined,  the  writer  proceeds  thus  :~- 

"Eqaldem  bealoe  pnto,  quiboi  deoTDm  moDere  datam 
eat,  ant  faceie  icribenda,  aut  Kriber*  l*geBda  :  beatiMi- 
moa  vero,  qaibns  ntminqi        ' 


The  italics  are  mwa. 


J.  B. 


The  subjoined  epigram  (the  4dt}i)  by  Owen  Is 
periiaps  the  psMsgs  to  which  B.  rafere  :— 

"  Qal  seribaida  r«dt,  nHbitve  legeoda,  beatos 
"'i ;  beatior  es  ta,  quod  otnunqae  fiieis. 

la  legi  Kribia,  fadM  et  dfgoMm*  aarild  t 
Sctipla  piobaot  doctara  ta  toa,  fksU  probiuk'* 
P.  J.  F.  QAirnLi«ir, 
Thb  pRDir  o>  Odido'b  "  AtmoB*"  (1"  S.  ii. 
381}  2-*  a  iU.20ai  4'*  S.  Tii.  13, 113,  2-21.)— I 
regret  to  infomi  your  eorraapondent  S.  B.  that 
Ur.  Dawsoit  Tdbhxk  of  Yarmouth  was  so  fai 
from  being  able  to  mention  the  author  rebired  to, 


DiJrnal 
Scrip 


here  the  lines  are  to  be  found,  that  he  asks 
the  Teiy  same  question,  and  adds: — 

"I  shoatd  have  mppoaed  (this  Mwge)  might  hava 
been  written  br  the  occaiion,  had  I  not  been  (aid,  upon 
aalhoiitj  in  which  I  put  confidence,  ttiet  it  ii  to  be  found  ■■ 
~ime  classic  author.    If  lo,  the  lines  may  ponibly  hav« 

Iven  lise  to  the  pajntlog,  and  not  tba  pauitiDg  to  the 

In  reply  to  the  second  query,  "  Would  he  fur< 
ther  obCgs  me  by  informing  me  who  Alexander 
^tolo*  was  and  whoi  he  lived  f "  I  have  the 
pleasure  to  ftimigk  him  with  the  following  ex- 
tract from  my  tmpnblished  catalt^iue : — 

"  Alexander  ^toloa,  a  Greek  poet  and  grammarian,  who 

lived  in  the  rdgn  of  Ptolemnos  Pbiladelphna Venus  de 

Flanetia,  v.  Gueaa  ad  FarMieniinn  Nicsenaam,  Addenda, 
149-51  (quoted  in  •  N.  A  Q.'  3<^  &  iU.  206).  Ctaalcidiaa 
in  TiniBum  <p.  SQ7  in  Hippolyto),  Eltgaotisainam 
cimeD  de   Antbso  ex   ejo*   ApolUnei   t.  PartheBioa 

"  PartheDioa  (here  relbrred  to),  a  native  of  Nioea.  lived 
in  the  reign  of  Augustus. — Erotica,  v.  Gale.  Hittoria 
Portico,  pp.  348-40i.  The  eighth  of  theee  love  stories  is 
tranalaled  in  Toland's  Hitiory  oflkt  Dmidi,  pp.  125-28. 
Alao  Iha  story  of  Hercules.  'On  pent  consulter  pour 
pins  de  de'taila  le  carieux  article  que  Fabriaiu  a  eoa- 
tMj4  k  ce  poite,  dans  le  tome  ii,  de  sa  BiblioUi,  Gnre. 
—  —  ■!_nio_     —  ■  _        .      _     - 


pp.  f16-79:'—Biogr.  Unit 


aee  alaa  Bayle. 


"  Ohb  Swuxow  does  iroT  iukb  a  Sttkiibb  " 
(8""  S.  T.  53,  83.)— Me.  HsAia's  inquiry  has 
ahrbadj  been  answered  from  Dr.  Forster's  Circlt  of 
the  Seaiotu.  Perhaps  the  following  extract  froiB 
the  same  author's  EettanAei  about  Atmogtheric 
Pk^tutmaia,  p.  166,  will  also  be  acceptable : — 

"The  occasional  eariy  appearanee  of  a  single  awallow 
has  been  proverbially  noticed  as  not  being  indicative  of 
nmmer.  (Note.)  It  is  mnarkabls  that  most  countries 
have  a  ^milar  proverb  relating  to  the  swallow's  acdden- 
tal  appearanee  befbia  ila  usual  time.  The  Greeks  have 
Mfa  x'^^^**  'ap  ev  rHir;  the  TffltJrS  '  Una  hinudo  non 
ftdt  ver ' ;  tbe  French,  '  Una  hirondelle  ns  bit  pas  le 
printempe' I  the  Germana, '  Eine  Schiralbemacht  keinen 
Frilling'-,  die  Dutch, '  Eeo  iwalnw  maakt  geen  zomer'; 
tbe  Swadaa, '  En  avala  gor  ingen  somniai ' ;  the  Spanidi, 
'  Coa  goloadrioa  no  bace  verano ' ;  tlie  ItaUans,  '  Una 
rondini  non  faprimaven';  and  the  English, '  One  aw*I<. 
low  doth  not  make  a  annuner.' " 

BlBLtOIHECAK.  CSEIBAK. 

"Owxl  THiiLOwrxsB  BODDiaSir"  (4*  S. 
vii.  190.) — I  think  this  poem  will  be  found  in  the 
OsatiMHM's  Magamm  between  1830  and  1840,  as 
it  was  inserted  there  br  ite  author,  the  Rev.  T. 
Mitford,  the  editor.  I  uve  no  index,  therefore 
cannot  state  in  which  volume.  O.  A. 

Epitafb  OS  SiE  Thos.  SrAHtKr  (4*  S.  TiL 
190.) — The  lines  referred  to  me  without  doubt 
still  legible  on  the  monument.  They  are  quoted 
by  Hr.  Walter  While  in  AU  Botmd  the  Wrekm, 
p.  14  (1880),  among  a  few  partaoolan  omoeming 
the  mngularly  interesting  old  chuck  at  Tonic* 

X.P.  D. 


4"  S.  TIL  April  1, '71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIBS. 


"Tkb  Snr  hevxr  bets  ok  tbe  Bstitbh  Do- 
mmosfl  "  (4"  S,  -rii.  210.)— A  amiliur  idea  occurs 
in  Tibullua,  liber  ii.  elegia  v.  :— 

"  Eoma,  tanm  nOBcn  terrii  fiMle  wendii, 
Qnk  nil  da  cibIo  proapictt  trra  Carta ; 
Qniqoe  pntent  ortus,  et  qak  flaitaotiboa  Dsdis 
SoliB  tuhBUnta  iblniC  tuBBti  gqmos." 

Thokas  E.  WnraiKOTOir. 
Labt  M.  Wortlkt  Mohugd's  Lettkbs  (i'^ 
8.  vii.  134.) — In  Mt.  Hunter's  valuable  collectioa 
of  MSS.  24,483,  Britisli  Uuseuin,  maj  be  found 
much  of  an  interestiiig  kind  relative  to  ibis  lady's 
literaiy  productions.  Mr.  Hunter  introduces  tbe 
sul^ect  of  these  letters  hy  stating  that — 

"  The  meiober  of  the  family  to  whom  I  vih  indebted 
fbr  the  origiuil  nolitea  of  Ihis  lady  inserted  in  tbe  second 
Tolnme  of  8imt/i  TorJkthwt,  wu  Lidy  Louiu  Stuart,  her 
grand -danKbter,  iB  unmiiried  dasghtei  of  tbe  Countess 
of  Bute.  They  were  obtilned  for  me  by  the  kind  ioter- 
vention  of  my  fHend  tbe  Rev.  Di.  Corbet  of  Wortley,  lo 
whom  I  wu  mtrodaMd  in  the  sommn  of  18S6,  spending 
s  lew  diys  with  him  it  tbe  house  of  Hr.  Rlmingtoo  at 
Bromhead  HaU." 

W.  WlHTBKS. 
Waltbam  Abbe?. 

Manx  Bishops  (4<*  S.  vii.  164.)— The  followine: 
list  of  bisbops  of  Sodor  and  Man  is  giyen  by  Dodd 
in  his  Chwch  Hi»tory,  vol.  i.  I  copy  it  m  I  find 
it,  M  it  may  be  of  some  use  to  those  who  ate  in- 
terested in  determining  the  names  and  order  of 
snccesBion  of  these  bishops : — 
"Amphibalo* 


.      400 

Mauridos. 

Conindicns. 

Mark         .        .    1300 

£omulu9. 

Alan. 

Maoholus     . 

.       600 

Gilbert 

CoDflnna. 

Beniard. 

Miebael. 

Thomaa. 

Wimundu* 

.    1100 

Williani  KnsaaL 

Jobo. 

John  Duncan. 

Michael  n. 

Robert  Wsldby. 

Nicholas  de  Meanx  1300 

John  Green       .    1400 

EtfiiDOld.            - 

Thomaa  Burton. 

jZ 

Bicbard. 

Simon. 

Hsaia  Blacklnch  1500 

Laurence. 
Blchaid. 

Thomaa  Stanley. 
Henrv  Mu." 

F.  0.  H 

In  our  Univeni^  libttuj  (Cambridge)  we  have 
an  edition  of  this  work  m  small  4to,  1628,  pp. 
(after  the  Preface  and  Table)  947  +  181.  Tie 
Approbalio,  at  the  end  of  "  An  Appendix  of  the 
Samts  lately  canonized,"  ooneeponos  exactly  with 
that  g^ven  by  A.  O.,  with  these  exceptions:  for 
Approbaiar  read  Avjtrobaiio ;  for  iongiut  read  lin- 
gvit,  and  fbr  Aitdomarop.  read  Audomarop.  [St. 
Omer].  These  were  doubtless  errors  of  transciip- 
tion.  The  extract  of  the  &mous  miracle  of  the 
crow,  given  by  A.  G.,  occurs  in  this  edition  under 
January  15,  in  «  The  Life  of  S.  Paule  the  first 
Hermite,"  at  the  bottom  of  page  26.  As  Bohn's 
title  is  an  abbreviated  one,  A.  G.  will  perhaps 
like  to  have  the  whole  title  of  this  later  edition, 
which  I  here  transcribe : — 

"  The  XJves  of  Saints  Written  in  the  Spanish  by  the 
B.  F.  Alfonso  Villegu^  DomiDidiui.  Tlsnalaltd  out  of 
Italian  into  English,  and  diligentlie  compared  with  the 
Spaniib.  WbereuDto  are  add^  tbe  lines  of  sandrieotber 
Mints  of  the  miaeraall  Cburch.  E:xtracted  out  of  F. 
Ribadeneira,  3vriTB,  and  other  approoed  authors.  This 
last  edition,  newly  penued,  corrected,  amplefied,  & 
adomed  with  many  lain  Brasen  imagea'  r^resenting 
the  principal  Saints  of  enery  month.  Also  a  table  oflM 
■Dgntented  Saints  added  in  the  beginning  of  tbe  Book, 
and  in  the  end  the  Uuea  of  3.  Patbickx,  S.  Bbidqit,  A 
3. CotvMB,  patrol       -'    '      ■ 


md  without  honor :  bthoid  how  thry 
childm  of  Cod,  and  Ihtir  lot  u  ~ 


fi/i  . 


"Hilikioh's  Sibtaht,  ihx  Sase  Crow" 
(4'^  a  vii.  11,  112,  178.)— At  the  lart  of  the 
above  references  A.  Q,  wishes  to  learn  something 
about  his  old  volume,  The  XtMS  of  ike  Sainit, 
which  he  describe*.  On  rejening  to  Tritor  de 
Livregraree,  par  J.  Q.  T.  Oraasse  (Dresde,  188.3),  iv. 
18, 1  find  a  copy  of  this  book  noticed  as  occurring 
in  Bohn's  CatoSoua  [1841,  art,  18361].  The  fol- 
lowing is  the  tiUe  given  by  Bohn  :— 

••SincBmBn,  Edw,,  Lives  of  tbe  Saints  gathered  out  ot 
the  worka  of  the  Kev.  Paiher  Peter  Ribadaneyra,  D. 
AUbnma  Villegaa,  and  other  authentic  Autbora.  with  an 
Appecdixof  the  Suatulatalye^aiiized.    Donar,162&" 

Bohn  desgribea  it  as  "in  2  vols^  am.  Svo  [i^u. 
4to],  a  fine  copy,  elegantly  bound,  price  31.  lOi.' 


"  With  permission  for  W.  H. 

E.  V. 
Still  slides  the  qehtle  Sirxavlei  ok" 
(4""  S,  vi.  6.) — Tbe  author  of  tbe  piece  beginning 
thus  is  Hood.     See  p.  1S3  of  Poena,  thirteenth, 
edition,  1861.  P.  J.  F.  OaDTiLunt. 

Smokcjo  Illboal  (4""  S.  vi.  384,  486 ;  viL 
198.)— The  citation  [p.  485)  is  correctly  given 
from  the  Colonial  Recordi  of  Connacttcu^  edited 
by  J,  Hammond  Trumball,  £sq.,  voL  i.  p.  668.  In 
the  same  volume  the  original  Act  is  given  at 
p.  153,  and  its  terms  are  still  more  quaint  It 
should  be  added  that  this  Act  is  comiected  with 


Smokers  (at  any  rate  in  England)  are  under 
the  impression  that  they  nlrasdy  pay  a  very  heavy 
tax  on  their  luxury,  in  the  form  of  the  lai^  duty 
on  tobacco,  and  would  not  see  any  justice  in  the 
additional  tax  advocated  by  N.,  noi  any  analogy 


Our  copy  is  without,  and  appean  never  (o  have  had, 
the  (nun  imagtt.  The  titls-pae«  la  adorned  with  me- 
dallion bnata  of  the  Saviour  and  the  Virgin,  iiit-a-mi, 
itb  tbe  Holy  Spirit  descending  ai  a  dove  from  above, 
id  a  cherub's  head  below,  with  palm  branches,  Ae, 
Then  are  three  Appntatioma  lo  the  Lives  of  SS.  Patrick, 
Bridget,  and  Colnmb,  dated  napacUvely  Au.  2B,  Oct.  10  , 
-a  Aug.  16,  all  in  1626/ 


294 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'fcS.VIl.  J 


Ll,7i. 


betveeD  such  &  tax  and  thoK  on  guns  and  am 
rial  beoriagv.  N — 1 

ADOBimre  Wsiis  at  Lichtibld  {i*  S.  < 
107.)— The  extract  horn  A  iShort  Aecoml,  4 
1831,  IB  merely  a  reproductioD  of  a  note  to  a  — 

'  HiMoTf  of  tha    ~ 

efly  compiled  fn 

JackuD,  Jqd^  ISOB. 

The  author  was  the  son  of  a  hoolueller  in  Uch- 
field,  and  had  lended  in  that  dtj  all  his  life ;  he 
thetefore  UMaka  with  the  anthorit;  of  an  eye- 
witneaa.  He  aajs,  p.  S6,  note  (he  has  been  ijuot- 
ing  Dr.  Plot)  :— 

"Tliis  indent  cnatom  of  odoming  welk,  &c,  uid  all 
placet  at  the  boandailca  of  tha  diSeient  parishea.  In  tn 
tfaia  da;  obaerved  In  Uchfield  >ed  mm;  neif;hbourinK 
towDS ;  where  the  cler^man  of  each  paiub,  attended  by 
the  cbnrcbwardena  and  other  offloera,  and  a  numeroiu 
conmerea  of  children,  iritb  ptea  boughs  in  their  banda, 
read*  tha  goapel  Tor  the  da;." 

The  interestdnK  fact  is  the  refiding  the  groapel 
at  the  wells.  This  was  a  custom  of  extreme  an- 
tiquity. Pleasant  old  Aubrey,  in  his  MS.  "  Re- 
uaines  of  OentUtsme,"  says : — 

**  In  proceeaions  the;  need  to  read*  a  soapdl  at  tha 
Bpringe  to  blene  them  ;  which  hath  been  ducontinoed  at 
Sannv  well  in  fierkehire  but  ainee  1688."  —  Brand'a 
PopiiiarAiiliguitia;  Ellia,  IFtttt  aad  FoMtoiiw. 

Can  any  inhabitaat  of  Ucbfield  remember  such 
a  custom  P  J.  Hehbt  Shobihodse. 

Edgblaton. 

Thb  Plamt  LraeuA  Aitszbis  (4*  S,  viL  162.) 
Is  not  the  Lmffva  touerii,  inauiied  for  by  JJb. 
Britten,  PoUntilia  anserina  f  tLe  learea  of  which 
are  more  or  less  like  fern  leaves,  though  it  would 
require  a  ffreat  stretch  of  the  imagination  to  see 
any  resemDlaoce  in  its  "  rote  "  to  a  "  goos  byll." 

Dia-8PiBiT  (4*0  S.  vii.  186.)— Mr.  Tiw  is  mis- 
taken  in  thinking  that  Fuller  meant  to  use  this 
word  in  the  eeuM  of  "  to  iafhee  spirit."  Dit-tpirit 
always  means  to  poui  or  take  spirit  out ;  aiiid  so 
in  the  passage  quoted,  Fuller,  with  his  wonted 
quaint  and  pregnant  use  of  words,  eajs,  "  du- 
spiriU  the  book  mto  the  scholar  " — i. «.  poun  out 
the  qtirit  of  tha  book  into  the  scholar. 

J.  H.  L  OiKLBr. 

Tha  Priory,  Crciydon. 

Wah  Mtoals  (l-*  S.  TO.  18,  131.)— Win 
J.  W.  F.  transmit  to  posterity  in  the  lastmg  pages 
of  "N.  A  Q."  the  names,  regimeota,  and  Dattles 
of  the  Mr  men  who  reoMved  the  Peniiualar  medal 
with  fifteen  clasps  r  C.  P.  L 

CoFTiviAL  S01T88  (4'"  S.  Til.  151.)— The  fol- 
lowing is,  I  concdve,  the  song  denred  by  Ms. 
Jambs  Gilberi.  It  is  in  Mr.  J.  B.  Flanchd' 
English  Teraion  of  Wilhelm  Aug.  Wohlbruck' 
Oennan  opera,  D»r  Vammir,  which  was  produced 
at  the  English  Opera  House,  Lyceum,  on  Au- 


^st  26, 1629.  The  muMC,  byKeinrich  Marschner, 
18  for  four  male  voices : — 

"la  Aatumn  waafaoold  drink,  hoyi, 
Yon  need  not  sore  ba  told, 
Tia  than  the  OTeriadca  vine 
Ita  purple  bnrden  ahede  in  wine. 
In  Antnmn  we  ibonld  drink,  bo;*  I 
In  Winter  we  ahonld  drink,  ittj% 

Foe  Winlar  it  ia  eoM, 
And  better  than  capote  or  bood 
The  bright  Toklj^  warms  the  Hood. 
In  Winter  we  shoeld  drink,  bo;! ! 
In  Snmmar  we  ibonld  drink,  boy^ 

For  Snmmer'a  hot  and  diy; 
The  veiy  earth  is  thiiMv  then. 
And  tbinty  surely  should  be  men. 
In  Snmmer  we  should  drink,  boye ! 
In  Spring  time  we  shanld  drink,  bora ! 

It  dcm^  mach  matter  why  1 
But  haTing  dnink  far  aeaaana  three. 
To  blink  tbe  foutth  would  ToUy  be, 
So  ronnd  the  year  well  drink,  buys  !  " 

W.  H.  Husk. 
Ve8E  :  Fm8E  :  Fbazi  (4'*  S.  vi.  196, 421, 563 ; 
▼ii.  109,  224.)— I  thank  A.  L.  for  hie  note  udou 
this  word,  ^s  reference  to  the  use  of  it  in  Fife 
is  valuable.  I  must  etate,  however,  that  his  in- 
terpretation of  tiie  pasMge  i^uoted  by  me  from 
Signa  antt'Judicium  (Philologieal  Socie^)  is  un- 
doubtedlv  wrong.  Let  him  refer  to  the  whole 
poem  either  in  the  Philolo^eal  Society's  Works 
or  in  AUmglucha  Sprac/^obeit,  %e.  (where  it  is 
again  printed) ;  and  he  will  see  that  the  meaning 
of  the  word  fadU  is  "  Gends  "  and  nothing  else. 
Within  a  few  lines  we  get — 

"al  >e  hndia  M  b4>  In  hd 


hou  t>e  bolis  snl  m 


A.  L.  requotea  my  quotatjon  with  some  incor- 
.  ctaeas.  Valuable  space  of  "N.  &  Q."  will 
scarcely  afford  a  third  repetition.    My  last  two 


lines  mean  decidedlv  and  unmiatakeabl^ — "  that 
all  the  fiends  shall  tneieof  be  terror-etncken,  and 
boi/estiifP)  into  hell."  The  next  lines  go  on — 
"  for,  will  they,  nill  they,  they  shall  flee,  and 
that  into  the  pme  of  helL"  To  satisfy  A.  L.  still 
more  of  the  meaning  of  ftnii*  in  my  former  quo- 
tation, I  refer  him  to  a  parallel  passage  in  Small's 
Bngtuh  Mtbicai  Homiket,  which  tuns  thus  :— 


And  wit  tba  windes  it  aal  md, 
Drif  tham  donn  in  ID  the  hd. 
And  dmHl  Iht  ibutki  thidtr  w. 
In  thaii  bal  *1  for  to  brin."— (P.  ziL) 
A  mistake  of  this  kind  demands  correction  at 
«;  but  on  the  meaning  of  ve$e,  feete,  /erne, 


Mbdical  OrdrbofSt.  JoHRti'"  S.  tH.  2S6.)MC 
The  Congregation  of  SL  John  of  Qod  is  not  a 


4itS.VlI.  Aphil  1,71.1 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


medical  order,  nor  in  any  way  coDDected  'with 
the  profaemon  of  medidne.  Its  founder  'wu  St. 
John,  who  was  boni  in  Portn^  in  1496.  He 
neTer  intended  to  found  a  religious  order,  but 
hegan  bj  hiring  a  house,  in  whicK  be  himself  at- 
tended the  eick,  beg^ng  alms  for  theif  support. 
After  his  death  in  15^,  some  of  his  brethren 
went  to  Rome,  and  their  congregation  was  ap- 

rved  and  erected  into  a  regu&r  order  of  charity 
St  Piua  v.,  who  gara  them  a  habit  of  a  dark 
ash  colour.  The  brethren  of  tbia  order  do  not 
become  derica,  nor  do  they  puraue  any  oouiee  of 
studies,  but  wholly  devote  themselves  to  the  care 
ot  the  poor  and  the  aick.  A  yery  full  account  of 
this  order  may  be  seen  in  the  Abbildungen  der 
voratgUeliilen  OeutHchm-Orden  of  C.  F.  Schwan  ; 
and  a  yery  good  scconnt  in  the  work  of  Bonasni, 
Ordmtan  Bdipioaormn  m  Eedetia  mHitanii  Cota- 
Jogm  1  as  also  in  the  copious  "  Life  of  St.  John  of 
God,"  in  Alban  Butler's  Live*  of  SamU,  March  8. 
F.  C.  H. 

"The  Bbokeit  Bridob"  (4*  S.  yii.  160.)— 
Whatever  claim  the  Celestials  may  have  regarding 
the  invention  of  the  so-called  "Chinese  shades" 
or  "shadows,"  I  am  inclined  to  credit  the  Euro- 
peans, and  especially  the  I^glish,  with  the  faoDUur 
of  perpetuating  this  kind  of  exhiUtion  for  many 
yeus,  perhaps  centuries. 

I  find  in  WiUiam  Hone's  Jncient  Mytteiiet 
Dtteribed,  London,  1823,  that— 

-On  ■  Twelfth-oight,  in  1818,  ■  nun  makioff  tba 
Q5iul  Cbriatmas  cry  of '  Gallmtee  >how,'  wu  called  in  to 
exhibit  bii  performances  for  tbe  tmiueiiHDt  of  mj  TOnng 
folks  and  tbair  companioni.  Hoit  unexpected^,  be 
'eompaned  ■  motion  (^  the  Ftodigsl  Son  t '  bv  dandng;  his 
tnnapirencies  between  tbe  nu^^ng  tXttt  and  tbe 
candle  of  >  migic  Isntboni,  the  oolonted  wares,  greitly 
enlarKed,  were  reflected  on  a  iheet  epread  agiiDit  the 
valloradarfcened  room.  The  Frodigal  Son  WM  repre- 
MDted  cironsinK  with  hia  comunioDa  at  the  Smn  Inn, 
Strufoid ;  while  the  landlidy  in  the  bar,  on  every  freib 
ciU,  wu  seen  to  score  double.  There  wu  also  Nosb'g 
Ark,  with 'Poll  Devil,  Poll  Baker,' or  [he  jtuljndgment 
upon  a  baker  who  sold  abort  of  weight,  and  wu  carried 
to  bell  in  hii  own  basket. 

"Tbe  manager  informed  ma  that  fail  show  bad  been 
the  same  during  many  jean,  and  in  VraHa  was  in- 
variable." 

"The  Broken  Bridge"  (pp.  230,  231)  I  con- 
ceive to  be  the  remnant  of  a  medinral  motion,  or 
puppet  mystery,  similar  to  the  one  just  quoted, 
altnough  in  the  coyrse  of  time  additions  may  have 
been  made,  obscuring  the  traces  of  its  original 

Elot.  Its  nnivereality  in  Europe  can  be  expluned 
y  the  fact  that  mystenM,  both  by  actors  and 
puppets,  were  performed  in  many  parts  of  Eng- 
land, France,  and  Italy,  in  some  cases  with  dis- 
crepandes,  in  others  correctly.  And  here  I  may 
mention  that  I  have  also  attended,  when  a  boy, 
a  shadow  exhibition  of  the  "Broken  Bridge,"  on 
several  occasionB,  and  the  tnne  was  without  ex- 
ception the  "  Mars^ll^se."    My  visits  were  not 


confined  to  one  showman.  The  idea  of  adopting 
the  "  shsdea  "  may  not  have  been  coeval  with  tbe 
invention  of  "The  Broken  Bridge:"  the  latter 
having  probably  been  a  puppet  [day  long  before 
the  introduction  of  the  "  anades"  ^query,  by  whom 
and  whenF  and  have  the  Chinese  a  shadow 
exhibition  ff  J.  J.,  JmT, 

Clerkanwelt 

Chables  n.  AT  Malpab  (4*  S.  v.  421.)— I 
never  heard  the  storv  Mr.  Kikj)T  mentions  be- 
fore ;  but  it  is  a  fact  tnat  there  are  two  rectors  at 
Malpaa,  who  divide  the  parish  between  them,  and 
occupy  the  church  and  pulpit  on  alternate  Sun- 
days. In  1837  (not  1867)  the  names  of  tbe  two 
rectors  (who  were  also  brotheiH-in-law)  were 
Qeorge  Tyrwhitt  Drake  and  John  A.  Partridge. 
The  former  died  in  1840;  and  tbe  latter,  in  the 
same  year,  moved  to  Baconsthorpe,  co.  Norfolk, 
where  he  died  in  1861.  W.  T.  T.  D. 

Knres  ov  Scotxaito  (4"  S.  vi.  233.)— The  only 
authority  at  all  to  be  trusted  as  to  the  Celtic 
kings  of  Scotland  is  the  leamed  Dr.  Reeves  of 
Armagh.  If  J.  A,  Pit.  consults  his  Ztfe  of  SI. 
Cohn3>a  he  will  find  an  appendix  givinr  all  that 
he  requires.  Betham's  Tablei  on  this  subject  are 
useless,  as  they  represent  a  state  of  knowledge 
which  was  only  dense  ignorance  of  Celtic  orebiB- 
ologT.  MAONra. 


»UnlUuitati*. 

SOTES  ON  BOOKS.  STa 
71ie  Worit  of  AltxoMdtT  Popt.  Nod  BStiim,  ncfujuy 
taxral  Hjotdnd  UigHMahed  Lttttrl.  OoUtcttd  in  part 
by  the,  latt  Right  Hon.  John  Wilson  Croker.  With  1h- 
Indtation  md  Nota  by  Uit  Rev.  Wtaltwell  Elwln. 
Vol.  VI.  Corrapatulnia.  Vol.  L  WiHi  FortrmU  owi 
olAn-  Jliuitratioia.     (Muray.) 

A  hnniiired  and  forty  years  ago  Pope  was  busy  plotting 
and  contriving  how  belt  to  awaken  an  interest  in  bis 
Correapondencc,  and  bow  to  prepare  that  Corresponclence 
for  the  public  in  such  a  form  as  aboold  best  aecore  fur  it 
tbst  admiration,  of  which  no  poet  waa  ever  more  greedy. 
Mr.  Elwin  haa  in  the  introduction  to  the  first  volume  of 
tbe  preaent  edition  laid  open  all  tbe  tricks,  contrivances, 
and,  it  most  be  added,  meannesses  of  which  Pope  waa 
Enilty  for  the  purpose  of  awakening  an  interest  iu  ttioae 
Otters  which  be  profeued  lo  give  to  tbe  press  only  in 
■elf-defence,  bnt  which  he  doabtleas  poblished  in  order  to 
gntilj  his  personal  vanity.  There  may  poetibly  have 
been  anotber  motive.  Was  he  consdoos  of  liii  dihcu  a* 
■  letter-writer;  and  tieing  so,  was  he  anxious  to  preveol 
the  publication  of  bis  ietlers  as  originally  written,  with 
all  their  want  of  ease,  eamestncaa,  and  sincerity  P  Did 
be  seek  to  fbrestall  by  tbe  pubhcation  of  Us  correspond- 
ence, c*re6iUy  cooked  np  and  prepared  for  his  admirers, 
any  chance  o'fthe  pabiication  of  his  comapondence,  such 
as  it  really  was?  Be  that  aa  It  may.  Pope's  Utters  in 
thdr  genuine  form  are  now  before  the  worid  ibr  the  first 
time ;  and  however  much  tbe  student  of  Pope  may  be 
pleased  to  have  them,  the  admirera  of  Pope  will  feel 
that  their  pnbiioation  does  not  tend  to  Increase  bis  tepa- 
tatlon  as  a  writer,  while  uufoitanately  it  goes  far  to 
lower  him  In  onr  eetimatioit  as  a  man.    Ip  t^s  b^eii> 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4>»3.Vir.Apan.l,'ri. 


Tdqieet  muiy  of  them  are  pogitivelv  painfal  to  read. 
Wbilethdr  literary  merit*  are  well  and  ooncbelv  rammed 
np  in  Mr.  Etirin  in  one  brief  Hotence  :  "  The  aniicarbled 
letlan  caa  dow  be  cwnntsd  by  hundreds,  bat  they  ut 
littt^  leas  barren  than  the  ^'rhlad,  and  whan  not  arti- 
ficial, are  feebler  in  compoaitiOD." 
La  Farodit  cha  la  Grea,  thez  la  Romaiia,  It  ehtt  la 

Modtma.     Par  Octave  Delspieire.     (TrBbner  &  Co.) 

ir  vhat  M.  Delepieire  writes  nflecla  irhat  he  readi  it  is 
clear  that  hs  sympathises  with  Charles  Lamb  in  his 
fondneaa  for  "  bi>oka  with  some  diverdng  twiat  in  them. 
His  versatile  and  ready  pen  baa  already  given  ns  a  most 
aniaein[r  little  Tolnme  on  Hasamnic  Lilerataie  i  which 
was  followed  bv  bis  Hiitoin  dti  Foiu  littetxiirt,,  and 
more  recently  by  his  Smie  awJylique  dct  Oueragtt 
ecrits  en  Ctnlinu.  Those  who  have  threaded  tbese  by- 
paths of  literature  under  the  guidance  of  our  aatbor, 
stopping  every  now  and  then  while  be  calls  attentiOD 
to  some  happy  pssUKe  or  striking  example,  will  readily 
onderstand  what  a  pleasant  hoar  or  two's  reading  they 
will  Snd  in  the  present  Essay  on  Parodr — a  species  of 
composition  which,  to  our  mind,  b  tbos  bappily  defined 
by  Le  P6re  de  Montespin,  as  we  learn  from  M.  Dele- 
pienre:  "La  Parodie,  mle  aio^  do  la  Satire,  Mt  ansai 
anclenne  que  la  Po^ne  mEme.  II  tat  de  t'essence  de  la 
Parodie  de  aubstitaer  toujours  un  nonveau  sujet  h  ceini 
<[u'on  parodie;  aax  mjets  sMenx,  dee  snjets  l^rs  et 
badina.  eu  employant  antuit  qua  postibls  les  ezpresiioaa 
de  raotenr  parodie." 

The  RorAL  Albhrt  Hall  was  opened  on  Wednesday 
by  Her  Majeetr  in  the  preseace  of  all  the  members  of  the 
Royal  Family,"  the  greoc  officers  of  state,  and  some  eight 
tbonsaitd  spectators,  among  whom  were  many  of  the  most 
dbtinguished  forrankand  attainments.  Thawbole  pageant 
passed  off  most  successfully.  The  incident  which  probably 
proved  most  interesting  was  Her  Majesty's  little  im- 
promptu speech  ;  "  1  have  great  pleasnre  in  testifying  to 
my  admiration  of  this  beautiful  Hall,  and  In  expressing 
my  earnest  wishes  forltB  completesnccess."  That  sncoeas 
is  very  much  in  Hei  Majestya  hands,  and  we  may  hope 
after  this  exprtHdon  of  her  ftoeling,  tliat  the  Quean  will 
again  and  again  meet  thonaand*  M  bar  laviog  rabjaota  In 
the  Kqyal  Albert  Halt. 

The  Newsfafbr  Prks  FnxD.^Tbe  Earl  of  Car- 
narvon  will  take  the  Chair  at  the  Annual  Dinner  ftar  the 
benefit  of  tiiia  asefol  iBstltaUon,  which  will  take  pUc« 
on  Saturday,  Hay  IS. 

The  first  portion  of  the  stock  oTBookaand  Manuscripts 
ol  the  late  Mr.  Joa  Lilly,  the  eminent  Bookseller,  has  Just 
been  sold  by  Messrs.  Sotheby,  Wilkinson,  and  Hodge. 
It  comprised  the  first  four  folio  editions  of  Shakeepeara, 
many  early  printed  Books  and  MS3.,  County  Histories, 
Illustrated  Books,  &c,  and  realized  TiOSI.  7:  6(/. 

The  New  Kbiohib.— Who  can  lay  that  In  IJieae  daya 
men  «ninent  in  art  are  not  among  tboae  whom  the  sover- 
eign delights  to  bonoDr,  seeing  that  on  Thursday  w«ek 
Mr.  William  Boiall,  Mr.  Steradale  Bennet,  Mr.  Benedict, 
and  Dr.  Eivey  received  the  honoar  of  knighthood  at  tlie 
bands  of  Her  Majesty  ? 

The  AMHBROAti  pASSioiia-Spiii.  will.  It  ia  ftated, 
tw  repeated  this  year  on  June  !4,  July  2,  9, 16,  S3,  and  3D ; 
Angnst  6, 14,  30.  and  S3  ;  and  Sept.  3,  9, 17,  and  24. 

ArchdKaCOk  Halb.— The  library  of  the  late  Master 
of   the  Charterhouse    has  been  parcbased    by   Meaen. 


BeevH&Tun 


of  the  Strand. 


LoinKi:(    Ikterhationai,   Exhibttioh    ( 


1B71.— 


tions  reprtsentative  of  France,  Italy,  Germany,  and 
England  reapeotively,  wQl  be  produced  for  the  oocasfoa 
by  M.  Gounod,  Chevalier  Pinaati,  Dr.  Ferdinand  HiUar, 
and  Mr.  Arthur  Sullivan.  M.  Gounod  will  prodace  a 
Psalm.  Chevalier  Pinsuti  a  Chorale  to  English  words. 
Dr.  Hitler  a  March,  and  Mr.  Arthur  Sullivan  a  Cantata. 

Mb.  Gkoboe  Mosoah  Gbieh,  a  frequent  contributor 
to  "  N.  4  Q.,"  Is  about  to  retire  from  the  house  of  Molioi 
A  Green,  and  to  Join  Mr.  'F.  S.  Ellis,  of  Sing  Street. 
Covent  Garden. 

Mr.  Carltlb. — At  the  Annoal  Meeting  of  the  Mem- 
bers of  the  Edinbnrvh  Phaoaophical  Inatitation,  held  on 
Tuesday  evening,  Mr.  Thomas  Carlyle  wai  ananimatuly 
TtMlecMd  Presiilant  tbr  the  ensoisg  year. 


'  Mr,  namat  Bi 
Bond  Slit 


fiotftcj!  to  Carrctft><ni1IcnU. 

•■  God  tbmpehs  tub  WiSD,"  Ac— T.  D.  bi//  JSmIAu 
ptatage  m  "K.  &  Q."  I"  S.  i.  211,  236,  &c 

M.  T.— .<rHre^  thtrt  in  asnu  mfifaule  in  tie  date  of  the 
Hue,  "  Marth  Iblh,  1871." 

D.  B.  T.—Haie  jitw  coanlted  roll.  iii.  iv.  aitd  V.  (^ 

COHTraUATIOH  OF  "  Chbibtabei." — C.  W.  S.  Ktilfind 
DM  in  Blackwood  for  1820,  by  Maginn ;  anoUier  m  tke 
European  Magazine  fur  1816.  Set  "  N.  &  Q."  1"  8.  vii. 
292  i  Ix.  &29,  &c. 

D.— Protestant  Popery  uni  vr^ii  bt  AtaKtnt^  amtlior 
o/Teme  Filing 


riEAND  PUMP  ROOM  HOTEL,  BATH,  opposih 

\t     Ibc   Abhtr  Church,   _FTBST-CLA88_*CCOMMOl6CWOK. 


HrH.  HOWARD,  a 
ill   hu  ""™l^  ™  " 


Surgeon-Dentist,  6'i,  Fleet  Street, 

taUztitDtw  dKTintm  of  ABTtFICIAL 

by  the  cloKit  obiemr.  Ther  irill  nerer  duiass  «1oiit  i>t  deev.  "ad 
VUI  be  aHiiid  «DHiiir  w  aar  weft  »WT  iKtlin  wt^  TlitiailMl 


4»S.TII.AnML8,*710 


NOTES  AND  QtTERIEa 


lOXDOjr,  BiTUBDAT,  APRIL  B,  18T1, 


COHTEHTS^M-  171. 


Sd«rd  lU"  Fal.  1680,  t»  — 


ClevBlmii  Fnii«r«l  Forty  Tau*  Jgo.  to, /S.-AnSent  Sig- 
net fODitd  M  tUin,  sot— luuDiuiicli,  /i.— Teniijioii  uid 
tbe  " PUin  Dealer ''— Junei Caika  BCenleiianau-Sai»11- 


QITBBIBB:— William  B>Ud]  —  Chaneter  of  CoDitentine 
—  Db  Lorraine —  " DooameDtoa  Anbicoa"— A  Gsrmaa 


ChuTOh  —  HonUgu  Queriea  —  PHory  nt  St.  Etbemao  — 
Uetrinl  TertloD)  of  Cba  I'sBlma  —  Putting  to  Death  by 
Tartars  tat  imputed  Heresy  —  Saints'  Emblems  —  6er- 
non  of  Bt.  Ekiy,  or  EligiuB  —  Seirell  —  Wreaka,  303. 
BBFLIB8:— Ombre:  BosIod,  UG  —  Uouming.  or  Black- 
edged  wHting  Paper,  WT— Adam  deUrletou,  306  — Har- 
rlagea  of  Prlnceasea  —  L4dy  Orimaton's  OraTe  in  Tewin 
Churchyard  —  Tbe  Wbite  Tover  —  "  The  Hob  in  the 
Well "  —  Amu  of  ncmiah  Famlllea  —  Oooket :  Cookeaey : 
Cooke— QuotatloD  — A  Bpltteo  l^ird- "Apr«a  moi  le 
IMluga"- FarneM  Abbw  vOl  the  Cbetham  Society  — 
lADCublre  Wllchei— -A  Mouiieur,  Moniieur  A.  B.^' — 
Tbe  aobadmaater  Abroad  In  StaSOrdihire-"  The  »tr«lftbt 
Oate  and  Narrow  Wv"  —  ^!^  Priory  oT  Ccldlngham  — 
I^ter  or  Edward  IV.  —  Albanej  and  Amondeiiile  —  "  Pen 
of  Ml  Ansel'i  Wing  "  j  WeTdnrortta,  Conrtable.  to.  —  Jan- 
ney  Family  — G.  Oampbiasen  — "  VeritM  in  Puleo"  — 
PaDningand  Jeiting  on  Naina— BallMalley— FlDdenie 


FACTS  IN  UNEIPECTED  PLACEa 
To  the  readera  of  "N,  £  Q."  there  can  be 
nothing  new  in  the  assertion  that  many  curions 
and  often  really  valuable  notes  and  datula  are 
found  in  books  where  they  are  least  likely  to  be 
«oaght.  Of  couree  to  any  one  inveatigsting  a 
•pedal  period,  or  the  life  of  any  individual,  cer- 
tun  Tolumes  would  speedily  occur  for  eiamina- 
tion  for  his  object.  But  how  many  and  important 
gleanings  lie  unknown  and.  unsought  in  books 
which  would  seem  little  likely  to  yield  Booh  tre»- 
«nrel 

It  baa,  therefore,  often  occurred  to  me  that  it 
anight  be  of  real  service  to  future  writers  to 
chromcle  such  memoranda  in  varions  biographies 
and  general  books ;  and  where  could  references  to 
these  be  more  fitly  accumulated  than  in  the  pages 
<)f"N.&Q."P  Itsmost  valuable  indoles,  I  aoubt 
not,  are  of  inestimable  service  to  our  present 
.writers  on  all  aorte  of  subjects,  and  will  become 
increaangly  so. 

The  house  in  which  James  III.  of  Scotland 
was  assassinated  was  not  long  ago  referred  to  by 
a  correspondent  (^.  90).  At  the  period  tbis  was 
mentioned  I  haa  juat  met  with  the  following 
illustratiTe  passage  in  the  Memoir  of  Dr.  Jamei 
SamiUon,  by  Rev.  W.  Aniot  (Nisbet,  London), 
It  will  be  seen  that  it  yields  also  an  interesting 
gleaning    concerning    Bannockbnm    and    '"  ' 


"  At  Beaton  Milb,  biw  tbe  old  cottage  where  Jama  III- 
Taa  mnrdered.  and  was  ghown  part  of  the  npper  and 
letber   mill-elonea,  with   marks  of  the  ffpinffle-aockets 

fbich  had  been  in  use  at  the  time. The  room 

vhere  James  expired  is  a  tmall  place,  with  a  roof  too  low 
to  admit  of  votu  standing  upright.  The  comer  where 
belay  is  etill  pointed  out  by  the  side  of  the  fiie.  Then- 
proo«ded  to  the  field  of  Bannockbnm.  Tbe  Bmce'e  8ag- 
-itone  still  remains.  A  wesTer  had  It  built  into  the  wall 
if  his  home,  bnt  the  Luid  tot  properly  made  him  lake 
down  the  wall  and  anrroider  the  stone,  which  is  now  de- 
ftoded  firom  further  perils  bj>  a  strong  iron  gralitig.  Tbe 
cows  were  fbeding  veir  peaceably  in  tbe  mocass  where 
Edward's  cavslrv  made  mch  stambling  amonggt  Sroce'a 
■pikes  and  {HtfsIIs."— P.  87. 

Two  years  later  Dr.  Hamilton  mentioDS  tbat, 
_.nonK  other  curioNties,  be  saw  in  the  house  of 
Mit.  UrMor^,  "widow  of  the  lata  Dr.  G.  of 
famous  dflssical  and  medical  memory,  the  bones 
and  coffin  nails  of  Robert  Bruce  "  1  (P.  101.) 

We  have  also  memoranda  of  "tbe  famoua 
'4ft"  (1745).  When  the  rebels  were  in  £din- 
buif;h,  one  night  a  Highland  follower  of  tbe 
prince  was  taken  up  by  ute  guard  because  it  waa 
■plain  he  could  not  take  care  of  himself.  When  in  , 
the  guard-house  he  came  somewhat  to  his  senses; 
his  first  ejaculation  was,  "Hech,  urs!  it's  aair 
wark  flitting  thae  kings.''  (P.  861.) 

"Forty  years  ago  StmUiblane  (the  early  home  of  Dr. 
H-)  retained  tracea  of  primitive  simplici^.  The  name 
of  BobRov  filled  a  larger  place  in  the  imaginatiDn  of  the 
people  than  the  Duke  of  WelUngton  ;  aud  tdl  who  had 
reached  fourscore  could  recall  the  times  of  tbe  Pretender. 
Mrs,  Provan  was  eight  years  old  when  a  detachment  of  the 
rebel  army  passed  through  the  Muir  of  Flnby,  and  as 
she  was  the  only  one  left  at  home,  the  Highlanders 
coaxed  and  threatened  her  by  toma  to  reveal  tbe  hiding- 
place  of  the  meal  and  cheeses ;  but,  allhoueh  she  had  seen 
them  buried  in  the  mou,  the  litUe  maid  was  flnn,  and 
neither  swords  nor  ■  nreetin '  coiUd   extort  ber  secret 

The  anival  of  the  first  umbrella  waa  a  oompa- 

ratively  recent  and  well-'rcDiembeTed  era." — Pp.  18,  l£ 

Many  det^ls,  correspondence,  &c.,  are  given  of 
the  disruption  of  the  Free  Kirk  of  Scotland, 
pp.  98,  168,  200,  209,211,  281.  Among  them  is 
a  description  by  Dr.  tlami!t«n  of  the  memorable 
withdrawal  from  the  General  Assembly,  May  18, 
1843. 

We  have  also  a  remioiscence  of  Sr  Frauds 
Burdett,  p.  91 ;  Lord  Jeffrey's  account  of  the 
system  by  which  be  remembered  his  speeches, 
and  his  failure  in  hie  "  maiden  speech  "  in  Farlia- 
ment,  p.  400 ;  and  suDdry  particulars  of  the  Rev. 
Edward  Irving  in  hia  early  days,  and  espedally 
in  London,  pp.  66,  ITS,  164;  also  remiuiscencee, 
letl«rs,  &c,  of  the  late  Hev,  B.  M'Cheyne  of 
Dundee,  pp.  143,  148,  153,  285,  237,  239,  816 ; 
the  late  Rev.  W.  Bums,  pp.  143,  147,  148, 152, 
309  i  of  Dr.  (now  Archbi^op)  Tait,  pp.  45,  46£, 
466.    ,  .  I , 

In  ilia  early  days,  uada  tbe  lectures  of  Sir  ^ 


29S 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


[4»S.Tn.Apmn.8,'71. 


Hooker,  Dr.  Hamilton  studied  bota^.  Seepp.dS- 
07  for  detaila  of  intercourse  with  Sir  W.  tmd  Yob 
ftmil;^,  and  of  "  old  Oeotge  Son,"  the  Scotch 
botsniat 

Dr.  Hamilton  wiitw  in  18S7:— 

"  An  know  the  itocj  of  UnDgo  P*rk  and  the  moM. 
When  he  came  home  he  gave  it  Co  hi<  brother-in-law,  Ht. 
DIckKm,  and  told  him  ■  that  U  thi  ino«  that  aavvd  mv 
nieiDArriea.'  MT.D.ganittoSlrWiUlam,whokMpa 
it  among  a  multitude  ol  other  nuiodtige.''— Pp.  96,  96. 

Let  me  alio  add,  that  anndrj  explanations  and 
detaila  reapecting  the  common-place  books,  in- 
dexes, kc,  whereb;  Bt.  Hamilton  made  avatl- 
able  the  stores  accumulated  by  hia  eitensire 
reading,  m&j  be  interesting  and  anggeatiTe  to 
other  studeata:  pp.  897-401}  also,  pp.  77-80. 

S.U.S. 

[Tike  onlj'  eUectian  to  the  aoggeatlon  of  onr  vdnad 
con-eapoiHieDt  u  the  diScol^  of  caiTTing  it  onL  Unloa 
all  Iht  maiti  mentioned  la  anch  papan  ai  an  proposed 
■re  catered  ia  oar  Indax,  the  objoct  aimed  at  woold 
not  be  aCtiiaed;  and  if  so  entand  we  fear  oar  Index 
voald  be  increaeed  to  a  varv  iaooavanient  extent — Ed. 
-N  &  (i"] 


«  HISTORY  OF  EDWABD  II.,"Fot-ie80. 

In  the  first  Tolume  of  the  first  aeries  of 
"H.  &  Q."  the  question  ia  raised  ae  to  the  author- 
ship of  this  history,  which  in  the  abridged  edi- 
tion of  it,  printed  in  the  same  year,  is  represented 
as  "  found  among  the  papers  of,  and  supposed  to 
be  writ  by,  the  Right  Honourable  Henrr  viscount 
Faulkland,  sometime  Lord  Deputy  of  Ireland." 
To  the  folio  edition  is  howeyer  prefixed  "the 
author's  pre&ce  to  the  reader,"  ugned  "E.  F.," 
and  dated  February  20,  1627 — manifestly  dis- 
agreeing with  the  attribution  to  the  first  Lord 
!^kland.  On  the  other  hand,  the  same  work  ia 
ascribed  to  Edward  Fannant  by  the  compilers  of 
the  British  Muaeum  Oataloeue,  but  on  what 
gronnda  I  am  unable  to  say.  But  whoever  might 
have  been  the  author,  I  wish  to  call  attention  to 
the  fact — which,  I  believe,  has  not  been  before 


occasionally  ytit  at  the  narrative,  are  in  blank 
verse,  au^eating  the  probability  that  the  history 
was  ttansproaed  or  worked  up  into  its  present 
shape  from  some  old  play.  I  will  give  a  specimen 
or  two  from  the  volume,  it  being  understood  that 
the  follotfing  extraeta  are  printed  in  it  as  prose. 

The  Queen's  expostulation  with  Uortimer  on 
L-_  r__    .^  BMka    away  with    the    King 


I  dare  net  uy  I  Tiald  or  yet  deav  It ; 

Sbune  stop*  the  one,  Ike  other  (mi  forblddeth : 

0nl7  I  beg  I  be  not  made  pertiker. 

Or  piiry  to  the  tine,  the  meuu,  the  manner." 

The  King's  angiy  reply  to  hia  coondl  (p.  13)  :- 

"  Am  Ivoar  king?     ITto,  whj  thanobevme; 
LeM  whil*  yoo  teach  pia  law,  I  learn  yon  duty. 
Know  I  am  ftrmly  bent,  and  will  not  vai;. 
If  you  and  >U  the  kingdom  fl«wn,  I  eaie  not : 
Toa  mnit  enjoy  jonr  own  efltetioni, 
I  not  ao  mndi  aa  qneMioD  or  oonlrDnl  them  ; 
But  I,  that  am  yonr  aoTirdgn,  moat  be  tntor*! 
To  iove  and  like  aloM  bf  yoor  diaorttiiai. 
~  '     '     ~    n  net  now  in  wariihip, 

rat  waya  to  gotde  my  hney. 
_  lom  and  the  public  erroaia; 

o  prevent  mine  own  withoot  protection. 

LODld  b*  loth  to  let  yon  fM  my  power; 
Bat  muit  and  wHl,  If  yon  loo  anch  eofbroe  me. 
If  aot  obedienoe,  vat  your  lovea  might  tender 
A  kind  eonient  frbaa  'tie  year  king  that  etda  it. 
fiat  yon  pacbuM  oeneett  yon  ahan  my  power  ? 


Jas.  Crosslkt. 


his  proposmg  t 


L 


"  stay,  gentle  Mortimer,  I  am  a  woman, 
Fitter  10  heat  sad  take  advice  than  give  It 
Think  not  I  prize  thee  in  eo  mean  a  hahion 
As  to  d«pln  thy  lafe^  or  thy  eonnscL 
Mnac  Edward  dje,  and  ia  there  no  prevantion  T 
Oh  wretebed  Male  of  greatnna,  frail  condition, 
That  la  preaerVd  by  blood,  pecar'd  by  murder  I 


An  R^ed  man,  wealthy,  but  having  lived  a 
miserly  life,  who  died  at  Redcar  about  for^  years 
since,  ordered  his  fimeral  as  follows : — 

"A  great  public  breaktiut  was  held,  such  eating  and 
drinking  having  navcr  been  wiineewd  in  the  old  man's 
lihtlme.  The  coffio  wu  carried,  slung  upon  towela 
knotted  togetlier,  aod  borne  by  relay*  of  men  to  Hanlie, 
op  the  old  'Corpse-way'  [sea  "Church-road"  la  my 
Cleveland  Glosury],  bamfied  three  times  oa  a  heap  « 
stones  (an  ancient  resUng-idaee  at  the  top  of  the  bill); 
'  The  Lamentation  of  a  Sinner'  waa  then  aong.  and  the 
procesnon  moved  on  to  tbe  churchvard,  every  man, 
womai),  and  child  receiving  a  dole  of  6i.  aa  they  entered." 
[See  "Dole"  »a  above]. 

My  correspondent^  in  illnatration  of  the  bump- 
ing, adds  that  not  long  since,  in  an  account  of  a 
Jewish  funeral  at  Bruges,  sne  met  with  the  fol- 
lowing sentence : — 

"During  the  prooesdon  to  the  bDrving  ground,  the 
coffla  was  put  down  on  the  road  three  liiKe,  and  the 
moaners  repeated  verm  from  F*.  XcL  with  the  object  of 
driving  away  evil  spirits." 

"  The  Lamentation  of  a  Sinner,"  mentioned 
above,  copied  from  a  Bible  of  the  date  1613,  said 
to  he  composed  temp.  Henry  VIII.,  and  with  ths 
music  in  the  old  angular  notation,  runs  thue: — 
"  0  Lorde,  lume  not  away  thy  face 
From  him  that  lieth  prostrate. 
Lamenting  eore  his  sinfull  life. 

Before  Iby  mercy  gate. 
Which  gate  tboo  openest  wide  to  those 

That  doa  lamoit  thdr  sin  | 
8bnt  not  that  gate  agaiost  me.  Lord, 
But  let  ma  eater  io. 


lOOc^Ic 


4»&TILAntlb8,71.] 


HOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


299 


And  ciU  ma  sot  to  mine  Mconnti, 

How  I  hiDB  liaed  hve; 
For  then  I  know  right  well,  0  Lord, 

Hair  vile  I  thtU  appein. 
Dt  to  conleag  mj  life. 


Iw 


It  tell 


0  Lord,  than  knowut  whet  things  be  put. 

And  eke  the  things  that  be; 
Tboa  knowent  ilto  vhat  ti  to  come, 

Nolhlng  le  hid  ftom  thee. 
Before  the  heaueni  and  earth  were  made, 

Thon  knowert  vhat  things  wera  then, 
Ai  all  things  else  that  hath  tieene  eiDce, 

Among  the  sonoea  of  men. 
And  can  the  things  that  I  haae  done 

Be  hidden  from  (hee  then  ? 
NiF.  DSf,  then  knoweat  them  all,  O  Lord, 

Where  tbef  were  done  and  when. 
Wherefore  with  tcarei  I  comelo.thee. 

To  beg  end  to  entreat ; 
Eoen  as  the  child  that  hath  done  enlll, 

Anil  fkarelh  to  be  beaL 
So  come  I  to  tbj  merer  gate, 

Where  mere^  doth  BbooDd, 
Bequdns  merde  for  m;  ainne. 

To  beale  my  deadely  wonnd. 
O  Lord,  I  need  not  to  lepeate 

Whet  I  doe  beg  or  crane : 
Thou  knoveit,  O  Lord,  before  I  aske, 

The.thing  that  I  would  bane. 
If  ercT,  good  Lord,  merer  I  aske. 


Thii 


Danby  in  Clereland. 


J.C. 


IsisH  Folk  Lobx. — The  following,  wMclk  1 
lake  from  a  leport  of  a  case  in  the  Court  of  Pro- 
bate which  occurred  very  latelj  in  Dublin,  is,  I 
think,  well  -worth  pieaerTation  in  the  pwrea  of 

"The  deceased  Thomas  Crawley  was  a  farmer  resid- 
ing at  Carrickmacmes,  In  the  coonlr  of  Monaghan.  He 
died  in  Hay  last,  having  on  the  Snd  of  Dee,  1669  made  a 
will,  whicb  haring  been  duly  execatad,  was  placed  in  a 
■aft,cf  whieh  the  wi(»  kept  the  key  by  the  testator's  dirao- 
tloa ;  but  on  the  night  of  hie  death,  when  then  were  a 
nambec  ef  people  In  the  place,  some  of  the  women  pfewnt 
Mggeated  (Aa(  i<  vu  BTSi^  fo  Aaw  oay  d»ri  or  (tronn  in 
tit  flaet  bxied  wlin  a  ptrsim  nu  i^nr,  and  accordingly 
all  locks  were  nnbolted,  the  safa  amongst  other  places 
bsiiig  left  open.  In  the  morning  it  was  diMnreiM  that 
the  win  was  mnoTed  and  could  not  be  (bund. 

"  Hr.  HoDston,  who  appealed  for  tbe  plaintiff^  es*. 
nined  a  nnmber  of  witneasee  a*  to  tbe  oontoila  of  the 
^sdns  document,  and  as  le  the  eircnmstancee  nnder 
which  It  bad  been  lost,  and  his  Lordship  (Jodge  Warren), 
who  beard  tbe  case  without  a  Jury,  being  satiafled  that 

'  V  ^  tertativ  in  hi*  l"  " 

laken  by  some  of  the  penoo* 
le  nlgfat  of  tbe  deonse,  granted  probate 

Lough  Fea,  CaniokatacroM.       Br.  Pb.  Shislit. 


Shxffrld  Foxk  Lohx.— It  is,  I  belike,  «n 
admitted  bet  that  the  scene  of  Hr.  Charles  Reade'a 
Put  younelf  in  Am  Plaix  is  laid  at  Sheffield ;  and 
that  the  author  spent  aome  time  in  that  ndgh- 
bourhood  when  engaged  on  the  composition  of  the 
work.  It  seems  to  me,  therofore,  that  the  follow- 
ing scraps  of  folk  lore,  put  into  the  mouth  of 
Jael  Dence,  "  a  villager  of  nnbioken  descent,"  are 
worth  extracting  for  "N.  &  Q."  I  quote  from 
die  edition  in  one  volome :  — 

1.  "If  a  frill  waa  in  clintcb  when  her  banns 
wera  cried,  her  children  would  all  be  bom  deaf 
and  dumb  "(p.  120), 

2.  The  "  Oabriel  hounds,"  called  b^  Jael 
"  Gabble  retcheb"  What  is  the  meanmg  of 
"retchet"P  "They  are  nothounde  at  all;  they 
are  tbe  souls  of  unbaptised  children,  -wandering 
in  the  Mr  till  the  daj  of  j  adgment."  The  "  Ga- 
briel hounds"  are  ezplaiaed  aa  ''a  atrange  thinff 
in  the  air,  that  is  said  in  these  parts  to  forelall 
calamit;,"  sounding  like  "  a  great  pack  of-beagles 
in  full  ray  " :  tiey  are,  of  coune,  connected  with 
the  Qerm»a  tetid  JSger  (pp.  156, 157). 

3.  "  If  you  ring  Mfore  breakfast,  youll  cry  be- 
fore supper"  (p_.  167).  In  London  the  Yeaaoa 
commonly  used  is :  "  Laugh  before  breaUiut,  cry 
before  nifcht." 

4.  Is  the  reason  for  the  "nnluckiDess"of  meet- 
ing a  magpie  generally  known  P  I  have  nerer 
met  with  it  elsewhere.  "  That's  tbe  only  bird 
that  wouldn't  go  into  the  ark  with  Noah  ajid  big 
folk  ...  a  very  old  woman  told  me  ...  .  She 
liked  better  to  perch  on  the  roof  of  th'  ark,  and 
jabber  over  the  drowning;  w<ald.  So  erei  afler 
that,  wh«i  a  magpie  flies  acn»s,  torn  back,  or 
look  to  meet  ill  luck  "  (p.  172). 

6.  "I  like  yon  too  well  to  give  you  a  pin," 
"What  would  be  the  consequence F ''  "111  luck, 
you  may  be  sure.  Heart  trouble,  they  do  My  " 
Cp.144). 

0.  Martha  Denee  marries  Fhil.  Davis.     Jael 


and  Davis :  for  'lis  an  old  saying — 

*  If  yon  change  the  name  and  not  the  letter. 
Ton  change  for  the  wone  and  not  for  tbe  better.' " 
(p.  333). 

I  have  purposely  omitted  some  examples  which 
are  widely  distributed.  Javu  Bbitibk. 

Kew. 

A  Writhxb  SitTKO.  —  A  Huntingdonshire 
cottager  (an  octt^enarian)  told  me  the  other  dav, 
"There's  a  saying  that  a  dark  Christmas  sends 
a  fine  harveet.  I've  known  that  saying  from  a 
boy,  and  Tve  alw»a  found  it  to  hold  good."  The 
dark  ChriaUnas,  of  comae,  referred  to  "no  moon." 

CUTKBIST  BXDB. 

Nsw  Yus  SupaBaanT»Hi.--Ia  East  Lano^^' 
•hiro  manj  boiueboUas  an  Tory  anxiow  that  m 


IfOTES  AM>  QUERIEa 


dark-hured  person  ahonld  b«  the  fint  to  entei 
their  houses  on  New  Year's  Day.  Some  go  so 
Ikras  to  hire  a  penontodo  this  in  older  to  proTeot 
K  mittake.     A  cnriooi  Tariatioa  of  this  super- 


turned  his  black  cat  oat  of  doon  ehortlj  before 
midnight,  and  did  not  allow  it  to  retuni  until  he 
wu  quite  eute  that  the  New  Tear  had  com- 
menced. T.  T.  W. 

Thb  OKEA.T  BbaB  Aim  SUKKBR  EAUTFiLL. — 
A  aldirul  old  gardener,  a  native  of  Yorkshbe,  has 
just  BBSured  me  that  the  coming  sommer  -mil  be 
a  dry  one,  and  for  the  following  reason ;  — "  The 
Clreat  Bear  ia  on  this  side  of  the  North  Pole,  and 
as  longas  he  remains  there  the  aummen  will  be 
diy.  He  has  been  on  this  side  for  the  last  three 
years,  and  the  summers  have  all  been  dry.  If  be 
could  get  the  other  tide  we  should  have  a  wet 
summer,  especially  as  he  would  then  be 
nexion  ^rith  Venne  and  Jupiter.'' 

Though  femiliar  ~^""    "" "   " 
about  the  weather" 
foregoin; 


„  Can  any  writer    of 

"  N.  A  Q,"  say  whether  it  ia  known  m  Yorkahire 
at  elsewhere,  and  whether  my  ancient  fiiend  has 
in  any  way  metamorphoaed  itP 

Wk.  PanaxLLT. 
Torquay. 

AMCtEHT  BIGNET  FOtTND  AT  BAI*. 

Some  twenty  miles  south  of  pEstum  there  is 
B  small  village  called  Forcile,  at  the  foot  of  Mount 
Stella.  Ilere  I  happened  to  be  benighted  in  my 
wanderiugH  through  Italy,  and  thereby  became 
acquainted  with  its  respectable  padre,  Pietro 
Zammareila,  whom  I  found  to  possess  a  small 
collection  of  curiosities  of  various  kinds — coins, 
cameos,  bat  the  most  interesting  to  me  was  a 
ugnet  which  bad  been  picked  up  at  Bute.  Any 
closer  approach  to  oui  printing  type  could  not 
well  he  imagined,  and  when  I  covered  the  raised 

rwith  ink  and  stamped  it  on  my  note  book  I  got 
letters  ae  dearly  printed  as  if  tboy  had  been 
formed  by  one  of  our  most  accurate  tvpe-founders. 
The  material  seemed  to  be  bronze,  tne  characters 
were  raised,  and  I  should  imagine  that  it  had 
been  formed  in  a  mould.  There  was  a  ring  at- 
tached to  it.  The  letters  had  been  made  with 
great  exactness  and  wonderfully  mmilar,  the  let- 
tera  being  very  slender.  It  was  in  tncbee  2'I  in 
length,  -0  in  breadth,  and  the  bughtof  the  letters 
was  *&.  The  inscription  was — 
azz  POKPO 

TALENnS. 

A  fac-nmile  of  this  signet  will  be  found  in  my 
ffookt  and  By-toayt  of  lUdy  (p,  20).  I  do  not 
pretend  to  have  Investigated  this  subject  at  all  i 
eanfuny,  and  therefore  if  I  say  that  tbia  is  one  <^ 


Romans  Uiat  has  yet  been  fi 
derstood  that  I  do  ao  with  considerable  reserve. 
Can  any  one  who  has  investigated  this  point  tell 
ua  the  earliest  spedmen  that  has  yet  been  found 
of  this  attempt  at  printing  amon^  the  Romans  P 
There  are  specimens,  I  believe^  m  the  British 
Museum.  Can  any  approximation  to  the  age  of 
any  of  tbeee  spedmens  be  made  F  In  regard  to 
Sextus  Pomponius  Vslens,  to  wham  this  signet 
belonged,  I  would  inquire  if  the  namea  of  the 
admirals  (pmfeoti)  ol  the  flaet  which  was  ata- 
tioned  during  the  imperial  period  of  Rome  at 
Misenum,  cloee  to  Baue,  are  known.  Whoever 
this  Pomponius  was,  he  must  have  been  of  high 
rank  to  possesB  such  a  signet-ring.  The  only 
Sextus  Pomponius  who  is  mentioned  in  history 
is  the  celebrated  jurist,  some  of  whose  works 
have  been  preseryed.  If  we  could  imagine  that 
Ibis  was  the  seal  of  the  jurist,  it  would  be  a  valu- 
able relic,  hat  we  do  not  know  that  his  cognomen 

The  family  of  Valens  came  into  notice  in  the 
imperial  period,  and  fiom  the  reign  of  Augustus 
we  find  several  of  sMoe  cdebnty.  None  of 
them,  however,  have  the  names  3»tuB  Pompo- 
nius. One  of  the  piisciMl  generals  of  the 
Emperor  Vitellins  in  a.s.  89  was  Falnus  Valena, 
whose  character  is  diawn  in  the  blackest  colours 
by  TadtuB.  In  the  royal  museum  at  Naples  I 
recollect  seeing  an  inscription  rather  remaikable. 
as  it  is  in  both  Greek  and  Latin.  It  was  found 
near  Misenum,  and  on  it  is  the  name  Val.  Valena, 
commaader  (pnefectoe)  of  the  fleet,  the  same 
office  that  was  held  by  the  elder  Pliny  when  he 
fell  a  victim  to  the  eniption  of  Vesuvius,  a.s.  79, 
I  have  been  remindtd  of  this  seal  by  the  interest- 
ing paper  of  M&.  Holt  on  early  Block  Books 
(4*  S,  vii.  13.)  CsAiiruBO  Tut  Raxaqk. 


ISAAC  DiaRAELI. 
The  following  notes  may  interest  the  admirerv 
of  the  Dimaelis,  father  and  aon.  In  the  parish 
ohnrch  at  Bradraham,  where  the  former  so  lon^ 
resided,  and  where  his  memory  ia  still  cherishe^ 
there  is  a  tablet  of  white  marUe  let  into  the  wall 
wUh  this  inscription :  — 

To  the  Mmnoilea 

of 

Isaac  DmiAau,  EsQtrma,  D.CL>, 

of 

Bradmbun  Hoom, 

Aotbor  oT"  Cnrioailles  oT  Utvatnre," 

Who  died  JanDSjry  19^,  1B4B,  in  bis  8!<<i  year, 

or  his  wn  Haxia, 

To  wboin  be  was  oidted  (or  Foitr-flve  yean. 
She  died  April  SI".  IMT,  in  the  7Z>">  Tear  of  bar  ace, 
Thdr  nmslns  lis  side  by  eida  In  the  vault  of  the  tAjibt-- 
fng  diaBcel," 


**S.TlLAPRn.8,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


301 


A  few  jeais  ago  the  present  Vucountess  Bea- 
conafield  caused  a  moniimeDtal  colnmn  in  hrntonr 
of  her  father-iti'law  to  be  erected  upm  the  brow 
of  an  eminence  closely  adjacent  to  that  upon 
'which  Hughenden  Manor,  the  residence  of  ner 
husband,  is  situated.  It  towers  amidst  scenery  of 
anrpassing  loTeliness,  is  plainly  visible  for  many 
milea  round,  and  benra  tke  umexed  inacriplion, 
which,  those  who  know  (inythlng  of  the  sponta- 
neous gracefulness  of  his  "happv"  style  will 
scarcely  hesitate  to  attribute  to  the  pen  of  the 
Right  Hon.  B.  Disraeli.     It  runs  thus :  — 

"Id  memoiy  of  Isaac  Di!IRAELI.  of  Bndenbim  Hoiue 
ia  this  county,  Esq.,  and  Uoaorar}-  D.C.L.  of  th«  IJni- 
veraty  of  Oxford,  who,  by  hii  happy  f^Dlui.  diffused 
amongst  the  multitude  diat  eleratiug  tute  for  literatun 
■which  before  hit  time  WB3  the  prirllege  only  of  tha 
learned.  This  monument  was  erected  by  Mary  Aonr, 
the  wife  of  his  eldest  >on  Right  Honble.  B.  Duraelt, 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  1852,  1656-9,  Loid  of  this 
Manor,  and  now  for  tha  sixth  time  Knight  of  this  Shire." 

Isaac  Ksraeli  was  bom  at  Eofield  in  Uar  1766, 
and  was  married  Feb.  10,  1802.  Urs.  EKsraeli 
■was  a  daughter  of  George  BasseTi,  Esq.,  of 
Brighton.  Benjamin  Disraeli  the  elder  died  at 
Stobe  Newington  Not.  ,28,  1816,  in  his  eighW- 
sereDth  year.  P.  M. 


TzinirBoir  akd    thb   "PLiiH   Dealer."— 
The  author  of  the  IVaut  Dealer  and  of,  perhaps, 
some  of  the  most  corrupt  And  corrupting  comedies 
that  are  to  be  found — ^though  by  no  means  the 
coarsest — can  hate  little  in  common  with  the 
sweet  purity  of  our  Laureate,  and  yet  in  ona 
instiuce  be  has  fcurly  antidpated  tha  more  popular 
of  his  beautiful  quatrains ;  nor  has  he  on^  done 
this,  but  he  has  done  it  with  a  tenderness  anil 
elegance  few  proee  men  of  his  day  could  have 
riTalled.    Tennyson's  words  are  these : — 
"  I  hold  It  true,  Khate'sr  befall, 
I  feel  it  when  I  sorrow  most; 
Tis  better  to  have  loved  and  loat. 
Than  never  to  havB  loved  at  all.*" 

Jh  ittmoriam,  sxtU. 

Cougrere's  pretty  thought  is  not  quite  a  parallel 
in  words,  but  is  exactly  so  in  feeling.  Jlfr^.  Mar- 
wood,  who  ia  not  of  necessity  either  a  widow  or  a 
young  married  woman,  bid  simplv  JUutreu  Mar- 
wood,  with  whom  FainaQ  ia  in  love,  talking  of 
that  passion,  says : — 

"True  'tis  an  unhappy  clrenmstance  of  life,  that  love 
diould  ever  die  befbre  as ;  but  aay  what  yoa  will,  'lit 
htUtr  (o  AfiH  btai  Itji,  than  ntver  la  havt  Men  lot*d." — 
Wi^  of  the  World,  l^iA  II.  So.  I. 

If  Mrs.  Marwood  had  been  a  widow  nghbg 
over  her  lost  busbaod,  the  narallel  had  been  cloaer 
and  the  pathos  more  periaet  How  thoroughly 
di^rent  tlie  feeling  pf^  these  two  men  of  letters, 
Tennvson  and  Congreve,  is  in  regard  to  their  art 
DUy  De  seen  by  contrasting  tha  noble  estimate  of 


the  poet  of  the  former  with  these  lines  of  Con- 
grave  from  tha  prologue  to  this  play ; — 

"Of  ttaoM  few  fools  who' with  ill^Ursare  curst. 
Sare  scribbling  fools  csU'd  PatU  Aire  the  wont ; 
For  th^'re  a  set  of  fooli  which  Foitone  makes. 
And,  after  she  has  made  'em  fools, yanoAci .' " 

May  I  take  this  occasion  to  beg  of  your  readers 
to  do  me  the  favour  of  sending  any  quotations  or 


make  that,  as  far  as  possihla,  a  model  dictionary 
of  quolations.  All  cases  in  nhich  my  friends  aid 
me  I  shall  be  happy  to  acknowledge  in  my  book, 
which  I  am  alreaay  preparing ;  and  thay  will  add 
to  the  ohlieation  il  to  every  citation  they  append 
aa  exact  reference  of  poem,  canto,  versa  and  line, 
act  and  scene,  or  volume,  chapter,  page,  and  edi- 
tion. HainT^weli.. 

71,  Great  Rnssell  Street.  Bloonubor?. 

James  Cavait  a  CEirTsirAKiAK. — Some  notices 
in  your  pages  on  tbe  subject  of  centenurianinu 
suggested  to  me  to  make  inquiries  as  to  the  actual 
age  of  an  old  man  named  James  Cavan,  who  is 
at  present  living  near  Newtown  Ards,  in  the  coun^ 
of  Down.  For  some  years  I  have  known  tiiat 
this  man  was  "  generally  believed  "  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood to  be  about  one  hundred  years  old,  hut 
I  feared  that,  as  is  usual  in  such  cases,  theproof$ 
would  not  be  forthcoming. 

The  following  facts  seem  clearly  to  prove  that 
James  Cavan  is  now  102  years  old : — In  the  year 
177fi  Alexander  Stewart  of  Newtown  Arda,  £^. 
(great-grandfather  of  the  present  Marquis  of 
Londonderry),  granted  a  lease  of  part  of  the 
townland  of  Ball  v  witty  cock,  in  the  pansh  of  New- 
town Ards,  to  James  Cavac,  the  father  of  our 
centenarian.  Thelessewasforthreelives — namely, 
James  Cavan,  tha  father,  aged  about  fifty  years, 
and  his  two  sons  Andrew  and  James,  aged  re- 
spectively eleven  and  six.  This  James  is  Still 
alive,  and  is  therefore  102  yeara  old  this  year. 
The  lease  is  now  before  me,  and  the  land  ia  still 
held  under  it. 

I  am  told  that  Cavu  was  w;ben  young  a  ver; 
active  and  powerful  man.  Ha  was  a  United  Irish- 
man, and  was  in  biding  for  a  considerable  time 
after  1798.  Qe  has  always  been  an  industrious 
hard-working  man,  and  still  works,  though  he  ia 
very  feeble  and  his  eyesight  is  nearly  gone.  I 
saw  him  about  eighteen  mouths  ago  engaged  ■ 
collecting  seaweed  for  manure  on  the  beach 
about  a  mile  south  of  Newtown  Ards,  near  his 
cottage.  He  has  no  descendants,  and  is  poorly 
enough  off,  but  is  kept  from  actual  want  by  the 
kiudneai  of  a  few  fanulicA  living  in  the  neigh1>oni- 
hood.  Wm.  H.  PAnBBaoB. 

Strandtowo,  BelEut. 

SvALL-Pox. — The  subjoined  cutting  from  tha, 
Watem  Mail  for  March  13, 1871,  seems  to  mm  C 
preservation  in  "  N.  &  Q." : —  O 


302 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES.  (4'*a.TiLAM.ii.8.' 


"WalM  ASd  tH«  8* all-Pox— At  the  present timfc 
when  tbmpnsd  of  ib«  nn  til-pin  epidemlo  liocculoaing 
mnch  ■laim  in  Loadan  and  tlironghoat  tha  coantrf,  the 
rabjoiued  DOte  rrom  an  old  miffszine  will  pouem  Kiin* 
intCTMt :— '  Newport,  in  WalM,  cIsLma  th«  merit  oFhaving 
p™cli«edinocnUlion  of  the  smJl-poi  from  time  imms- 
morial,  before  it  vu  even  knoirn  to  tbe  other. count <ea  of 
BriUin  1  for  while  the  London  phj-diians,  on  the  recom- 
mendatioo  of  a  Turkish  pmctice  by  Lidy  Mary  Wortley 
Montagu,  were  cantiondy  vmlunng  to  experiment  on 
•ome  condfmned  criniiniJi,  the  more  hardy  native  of 
Pembiokeihire  dared  to  inocaltle  himself,  withont  the 
atslatance  of  either  phrsidan  or  prepsralion.  This  «u 
as  early  n>  the  vear  1722.  The  method  had  been  con- 
ManlJy  attended  with  great  mccaM;  and  though  it  had 
not  acquired  the  name  of  inocnlal  ion,  vet  it  wa»  carried 
on  much  in  the  same  msnuer.  They  called  it  Ai  '  -  ■■  - 
imaB-pox.  aa  It  was  the  castom  to  pnrchaH  Ihi 
contained  la  the  pustules  of  etch  otiier.'  We  shonld  be 
Rlad  if  any  of  onr  reader*  eonid  throw  more  light  on 
drcnmstann  »  hononrable  (O  WtXia."  —  Cardiff  <a 
JUtrtiiur  (I'uanfunof  March  10, 1871. 

R&M. 

SBiznsx  OF  Cbitibu  uitdxb  a  "Hbbiot."- 
The  AccomptuijiDg  cutting  ia  worth  preseifing  in 
"  N.  &  Q."^:— 

"SiKaitLAii  CntTOK  IK  EvoT.AXD.  —  In  tha  nippl< 
mentorr  estimate  a  vote  of  TS,ODU/.  1"  asked  for.  for  th 
pictures  collected  by  the  late  Sir  Robert  Peel. 


the  ■  Cha- 
by  the  late 
rortb  jn  the  HoDM  of  Peers.  His  lordship,  in 
moving  tha  second  reading  of  the  Copyhold  Enfranchisa- 
ment  Bill,  alluded  tfl  that  strangest  of  all  anomslies  In 
Eiulish  custom  which  passed  ander  the  name  of  heriot. 
This  esisled  in  verr  many  manors,  and  by  It,  on  the 
death  of  a  person  holding  land  subject  to  Che  custom,  the 
lord  might  seize  the  best  chattel  ofwhich  the  tenant  died 
posseswd.  It  was  within  the  late  Sir  R,  Peel's  know- 
Udge  [hat  the  famous  hone  9molensko,  worth  %WML  or 
a.OOOL,  was  eeiied  under  a  heriot.  and  that  when  the 
llrst  Lord  Abinger,  as  Mr,  Scarlett,  was  at  the  bar,  a  fiilM 
report  of  his  death  having  been  clnnlated,  the  flrst  inH- 
mation  which  Mra^  Searlelt  had  of  It  was  the  seizure  of 
three  tt  the  learned  gentleman's  best  horses  by  the  lord 
of  the  soil.  Kr  Robert,  being  the  tenant  of  a  manor  to 
which  a  heriot  attached,  was  in  the  greatent  apprehension 
that  if  invthing  happened  lo  him  the  picture  above  men- 
tioned might  be  taken,  and  In  order  to  fna  himself  from 
that  risk  he  bought  the  manor  of  which  the  eopThoM  waa 
bm.—Daat  Naar—Letdl  Marc>irg,U.»nb  17. 

K.  P.  D.  E. 

Chap-Booeb. — The  following  sre  the  short 
Utlea  of  chap-booliB  printed  at  Hull  hj  3.  Fer- 
nby.  They  are  in  three  eeta — nil  without  date. 
The  first  set  I  am  inclined  to  consider  fintnewhat 
earlier  thsn  the  second,  which  ia  about  1799-1800, 
and  the  third  some  years  later.  Mr.  Fembj 
infonnt  the  public  on  some  of  these  choice  sped- 
mens  of  ty|>(«raphT,  that  he  haa  "  Tha  greatest 
choice  of  old  bslUds,  godly  patters,  histories,  and 
children-boolis,  printed  in  as  neat  a  manner  and 
with  aa  good  cuta  as  at  any  other  pince  in  Eng- 
land;" so  that  we  may  conclude  his  uauei  to  have 
been  yery  numerouB.  Those  detailed  below  are 
all  I  hare  yet  been  able  to  recoTer,  All  are  in 
12mo,  ranging  from  eight  to  twenty-four  pages, 


end  are  occasionally  adomed  with  cuts  which 
match  the  printing  tod  paper  in  workmaoahip  and 
roughneaa: — 

llie  Cruel  Cooper  of  RalnlilTa  Garland;  The  Ide  of 
Wight's  UarUnd;  The  Oxfordshire  Tragedy,  or  the 
Virgin's  Advice  :  Tha  New  West  Conntrr  Garfand  ;  Thr 
Strand  Garland;  N'lxon's  Cheshire  Prophecv  at  Uni'; 
The  History  of  the  Blind  Beggar  of  Betbnal  tureen  ;  The 
Crown  and  Glory  of  Chrisdanity.  to  the  Saint's  Everlast- 
ing Rest,  bv  Robert  Roes,  D,0. ;  David's  Lamentation, 
or  tha  Christian's  Kdlance  npon  God ;  The  Hi«torv  of 
that  Holy  Disciple  Joseph  of  Arimathea :  The  Weeping 
Christian,  or  the  Righleans  Man's  Godly  Sorrvw;  A 
Tnie  and  Faithful  Aocoant  of  the  Manner  of  Christ  com- 
ing to  Judgment  nn  the  Latt  Day  \  A  Divine  Dialofcns 
between  John  Williams  of  Glouoester  and  Squire 
Wright;  The  Atheist  Converted,  or  the  Unbetiever's 
Evea  Open'd. 

The  Frisr  end  Bov.  or  the  Toang  Piper's  Pleasant 
Pastime  (two  parts); 'The  Merry  Frolic^  or  the  Comical 
Cheats  of  Swalpo,  a  notorious  Pickpocket.  And  the 
Heny  Pruiks  of  Roger  the  Clown  ;  The  Sleeping  Beaulr 
of  the  Wood;  The  Art  of  Courtship,  or  the  School  of 
Lovei  TheCriesofa  Wounded  Conscience;  The  Life  of 

William  Navlson,  a  nolorlons  Highwayman and 

Oenerodty,  a  Tale. 

Partridge  and  Flamatead'a  New  and  Well-ex  perieni^ 
Fortune  Book;  The  Cilee  of  a  Wounded  Cooscience  [as 
before]. 

W.C.  B. 
Hull. 

A  MoimrXBUTK  of  tsb  i,abt  Cxntcbt. — Any 
memorials  of  an  extinct  race  will  be  appropriate 
to  "  N.  &,  Q."  In  Wheler's  Siflory  and  Antigm- 
lie*  of  Slrat/ord-upon-AvoH  (which  1  know  to  have 
been  printed  in  1806,  though  it  haa  no  date  on  its 
title-page)  ia  (p.  66)  the  following  memorial  from 
a  gravestone  on  the  floor  of  the  church : — 

Nicbolaa  TBngabl^  Gent.,  died  the  Utii  of  April, 
1774,  aged  87," 

and  from  Mr.  Wheler's  annotated  copy  of  tbat 
volume,  which  wh  'presented  to  the  Shakespeare 
Museum  at  Stratford  by  the  author's  sumvint; 
sister  in  1862, 1  tranecnbe  the  following  parti- 
Mr.  Tangabte  was  a  Moantebank;  but  having  therebv 
acquired  ■  sufficient  propertv  to  support  him  retired  f- 
Stratford,  whem  he  died.  His  manners  were  respectful 
and  genteel,  and  his  person  waa  tall  and  remarkablv  well 
shaped.    I  have  heard  he  waa  of  Dutch  extraction.'' 

J.  G.  N. 


WiLLiiK  BiLiOL.— "Will  any  of  the  readers  of 
"  N.  Sc  Q."  give  me  some  accoimt  of  Sir  William 
Baliol,  the  brother  of  John  king  of  Scotland,  and 
son  of  the  founder  of  Baliol  College  t  Weever, 
in  his  Fiattral  Momtmmtt,  states  that  he  was 
buried  at  themonHSteryofWbitefriarsObservaats 
at  Canterbury.  Who  did  he  marry  P  by  what 
meaos  did  he  escape  the  doom — baniahment  and 
exile— of  those  of  bis  name  F  and  whether  a  change 
of  name  was  in  those  early  times  leaorted  to,  to 


4*8.Tn.  Arait,«,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


303 


tttcape  tbe  puos  sad  penaltiet  attacliiiig  to  the  ex- 
commutticautauidoutlftwedF  Can  Ms.  SiiicuiK, 
or  Mb.  L&iHa,_  or  anj  other  ^ntleman  enlighun 
me  on  tfae  subject,  u  it  is  a  link  in  a  chain  of  in- 
qiiiTy  I  much  want  P 

The  name  of  Baliol  became  extinct  after  the 
jesr  1330,  and  after  the  surrender  of  Edward 
Italiul,  the  son  of  John  the  unfortunate  kino;  of 
Scotland,  although  issue  of  some  of  the  heads  of 
the  family  of  that  name  were  Utihk  both  in  Eng- 
land and  Scotland  at  that  time.  Did  they  aaeume 
anj  other  name  ?  and  if  so,  what  name  P  and  on 
wnat  authoritT  can  such  assertion  be  supported  f  * 
J.  R.  S. 

CoAiuoTBB  oj  CoiraxAirnHB,— Amelius  Yictot 
deacribes  Constantine  as  "  Trackala  decem  annia 
praBBtantissimus )  duodecnm  sequentibuslii^o;  de- 
cem Qovlasimis  jn<;)iJfuf  ob  immodicas  piofusiones." 
I  know  not  how  Trachala  can  apply  ea  an  epithet 
to  Constantine,  except,  as  at  the  bands  of  some 
he  has  not  escaped  the  charge  of  tUmerxnMt,  be 
raaj,  in  the  earlier  part  of  his  caraer,  nave  framed 
his  policy  a  little  too  much  i»  the  following 
model : — 

If'  i^aKiaSaatu'  Siyj  riii  ItoBiiMi. 

AriiMph.  E^itu,  490. 

Educks  Tsw,  H.A. 
De  Loobaine.  —  I  ahould  be  much  obliged  for 
any  correct  informstioD,  or  for  any  clue  to  obtain- 
ing such,  concerning  the  history  of  the  family  of 
Da  Lorraine  (_of  Durham  and  Nortbumberland) 
during  the  eleventh,  twelfth,  thirteenth,  and  four- 
teenth centuries;  especially  as  to  whether  the 
descent  of  "Edward  Loraine  of  this  family,  who 
acquired  the  estate  of  Eirkharle  in  Northumber- 
luid  by  marriage  in  the  le'Pi  of  Henry  V.,  can 
be  traced  throusb  them  to  Robert  de  Lorraine 
or  Walcber  de  Lorraine,  who  lived  temp.  William 
I.  and  11.  Concerning  these  two  persons  I  ^ould 
also  be  glsd  of  information  on  tlie  following 
points: — From  what  family  each  was  descended, 
and  what  amui,  if  any,  were  borne  by  Robert  ? 
How  and  when  each  of  his  ancestors  came  to 
England,  and  whether  Robert  is  likely  to  hare 
been  identical  with  the  "  Delaroune  "  of   the 


Battle-Abbey  RollF     (See  Grafton's  Chronicle.) 
Whether  they  or  any  of  their  hucobssoib  (provii 
(e  1416}  held  property  in  Durham,  aiid  if 


In  some  private  accounts  in  my  possesumi 
Robert  de  Lorraine  is  stated  to  have  come  to 
[■  "TTure  were  Mve™l  collateral  bimrhM  of  this  >ir- 
Dsme  of  Baliol  In  Scotland,  donon  and  witneMes  Id  oot 
doiiter  registen;  and  in  tba  Rasman  Boll  there  are 
(bar  ai  Ave  of  tbmi  of  good  aceooo  t.  Some  sir  that  the 
Baillies  are  descended  ftom  the  Btliola,  sblcli  lart  name 
twing  odious  to  the  nation,  they  dianged  It  to  Bailli^  and 
it  seems  tbdr  arm*  too,  fbr  they  are  veir  dilhnnt  fton 
the  Bafiola.'— msbst'B  AnIAy,  L  1T&~Ed.] 


England  with  the  Conqueror,  to  have  beeit  a 
great  soldier  and  scholar,  and  to  have  been  re* 
warded  with  landa  in  Durham  by  Rufos.  He  js 
mentioned  in  Baker's  Chroniclt,  p.  41,  ed.  1660, 
as  having  epitomised  the  Chroitid«  of  Maritmu* 
Scoliu,  and  I  believe  he  was  made  Bishop  of 
Hereford.  Watcher  de  Lorraine  was  Bishop  of 
Durham  and  Earl  of  Northumberland. 

LOTHAIB. 
94,  Piccadilly. 
"  DocuMEirroB  Arabioob." — 

"la  a  collection  of  papen  pnUiihed  In  1790,  caOal 
DoaitnBUoi  ArabicBi,  Iroai  the  Royal  Aichii-e»  of  Lis- 
boB,  chiefly  conibtin^  of  letters  between  the  liings  of 
Portugal  and  the  (ributary  princes  of  tbe  Eait  in  tfae 
■iileenth  centary,  the  Zeqae,  Sheik,  or  KioR  of  Hdinda, 
with  whom  De  (i*ma  afterwards  madea  treaty  of  iliiaoce, 
and  whosa  ambanador  be  csnied  into  I'ortugsl,  wsi 
named  W»Berale,"  — Clarke,  L  486-7i  Kerr's  Voiiaga 
a«d  Travtii,  IL  348. 

The  work  above  mentioned  waa  translated  into 
Portuguese  by  Father  John  de  Souza*  in  1790. 
Does  it  throw  snv  light  upon  the  parentMe  or 
history  of  Timoia,rimojn,  or  Tim-It£j,the  Hmdu 
ally  of  the  great  Albuquerque  P  Has  it  ever  been 
tnmslated  into  English  or  I^reDchP  and  if  so,  under 
what  name  or  title  is  it  to  be  asked  forP 

R.  R.  W.  Ellib. 
Exeter. 


A  Geruik  Ettuolooical  Dictiokabt.  —  Can 
you  or  any  of  your  numerous  and  learned  corre- 
spondents recommend  to  me  a  good  German  etymo- 
logical dictionary  in  a  small  compsss  P  I  possess 
Grimm's  Dntfac^  Worterbtidi,  with  the  continua- 
tions bv  Hildebrand  and  Weigand,  as  far  as  it  goes ; 
butsucnawork istoo bulky formypurpose.  InaTe 
botight  several  German-English  uclionaries,  bot 
they  none  of  them  give  the  German  derivations. 
What  I  want  is  something  after  the  fashion  of 
your  Chambers'  £ngluh  ^j/molo^ieal  Dictionary, 
or  even  Pick's  Frmch  Etymological  Dictionary. 
If  any  one  can  recommend  such  a  work  in  a  amtdl 
compass  they  will  greatly  oUige 

A  FOKGISHEB. 
[We  are  not  aware  of  any  etymological  dletionaty 

of  the  German  lan^age,  with  the  exoeptioa  of  that  re- 
fbrred  to  above,  as  coinnienccd  by  Grinim  and  continaed 
by  Hildebrand  and  Weigand.  German  being  for  the 
greater  part  an  original  laDgaage.it  isimpouible  toahow 
its  derivitinna  In  tbe  same  manner  as  can  be  dona  with 
English  or  French,  the  former  of  wbicb  ii  mainly  derived 
Tmm  Gothic  and  Latin,  Ihrongfa  the  media  of  Anglo- 
Saxon  and  Fiencb,  and  the  latter  from  Latin  and  Celtic 


the  other  branches  of  tbe  Aryan  family  of  tongoes  t 
wbicb  It  is  attached  as  a  oommon  stem.  SJach  an  nn- 
dartaldiig,  moreover,  is  one  reqoiriiw  immense  powers  of 
IcamlnE  and  reaearcta,  soch  as  conld  anlv  hare  bean  ia- 
Blltatea  by  man  of  tbe  edibte  of  Grimm.  BowV  VtiyU' 


jl,andPott'i 


£hiBoIa;ilcAe 


die  fonditaigim 


may  be  advantagMoaly  consult 

*  Jamss  Horphy,  TVovsIa  im  Prntaaal,  p.  186,  Loadm  C 
1796.  ^ 


HOT£S  AlH)  QDJSSIE& 


t4*a.TU-AHBi.a,'7L 


Haitdkl'b  "Mbwiah." — At  ptrfonnanoea  of 
Hm  oratorio  Midieuee*  invariftbly  rise  at  the  firat 
DotM  of  the  "  HallelDJKli  Choms,"  and  renuui 
standing  until  the  chonu  has  been  mmg  throng 
Oau  an;  of  7007  raadeta  supply  >^  note  at  to  the 
oiiginof  thucttitomF  -    F.  S. 

Habbow  School  :  Johx  Lioir. — In  Ae  Timu 
newepaiwrofMaTchSfs  a  hrief  notice  of  "Haiww 
School  Tercentenary,"  in  which  it  U  Btated,  with 
refeienca  to  thia  famoua  aeminuT,  that  the  pre- 
sent ia  the  three  hutidiedth  year  since  its  chaTter 
of  fonndation  was  granted  to  John  Lvon.  la  any- 
thing known  reguding  the  perBonal  history  and 
family  of  this  John  Lyon,  and  was  he  in  any  way 
connected  with  the  Lyon  who  gave  bis  name  lo 
the  inn  of  Chancery  long  known  as  "Leon's 
Inn  "  F  It  occots  to  me  that  the  rign  armonal  of 
Hanow  School  is  identical  with,  or  at  least  some 
modification  of,  that  of  the  Scotch  earldom  of 
Stratbmore ;  bnt  my  memory  in  regard  to  this  is 
not  by  any  means  distinct  What  history  gives 
the  best  account  of  its  foundation  ? 

Babbistbb. 

[We  fear  bat  little  la  knoim  of  tbe  parentage  of  Jobn 
I^OD,  tbe  founder  of  Harrow  SchooL  He  redded  at 
Preaton,  in  the  pariafa  ot  Harrow,  In  the  eonditloD,  u  to 
said,  ot  a  *>  weallbj  ^eomaii,"  and  bad  considerable 
landed  property,  acqnired  by  bto  own  indnatry.  Ac- 
cotding  to  his  mDnumental  brua  h«  died  Oct  8,  1692. 
No  win  DOT  adminiitratlon  of  his  dTbcts  baa  been  foand 
either  in  the  Prerogative  Conrt  of  Canterbnry  or  In  the 
Biihop  of  London'a  otGee.  Hb  wlitow,  Joan,  wai  burled, 
aecording  to  the  reelitsr,  Ang.  SO.  1608.  Their  only 
child,  Zacbary,  wi«  boried  May  26,  1683.    The  lettera 

Eit«it  for  the  endowment  of  the  school  were  procured  bj 
jon  13  KHr-  1671.  It  hai  beeu  cai|jectured,  with  aome 
probability,  that  b  klnaman  of  the  founder  of  Barrow 
School  waa  Jobn  Ljqa  (son  of  Thomu  Lvon  of  Peiy- 
tan  or  Perlvale^,  ••  ■  dtuen  of  oredlc  and  renown,"  ■ 
menit>er  of  the  Urocera'  CoiiipaDy,  Sheriff  in  1560,  and 
Lord  HajOT  in  tS64.  Dnriog  Eiia  ahrieralty  he  bad  a 
grant  of  anna,  via.  Azure  a  fesa  or,  charged  with  ■  lion 
pananl  between  two  dnqaefoils  gule^  between  thne 
pUte*,  aich  charsed  with  a  grifSii'a  bead  erased  table. 
We  are  indebted  ^r  these  particntara  to  two  tnteittting 
papers  in  the  Harraur  GateUt  of  Uerch,  1861,  one  signed 
"L^"  [George  Edward  Long,  Esq.],  and  the  other  with 
the  tamiliar  loitiale  "  J.  G.  N."  For  tbe  history  of  Harrow 
School  consult  Carliale's  Endomd  Grammar  Schooit,  ed. 
1818,  ii  Ii6-I61 !  Thi  Hitlnry  of  the  (hllega  of  JFin- 
ehttter,  Eton,  IlarroK,  &c^  ed.  1816,  4tOj  and  Howard 
Staunton's  Great  SchooU  nf  Eitfland,  1 865,  8to,  pp.  802- 
349,— Lyon'a  Inn,  Holywell  Strtel,  was  ancieotlr  a  com- 
mon inn  of  the  aign  of  tbe  Lion  {/tlit  tea),  king  of  beasts.] 
HooARTH  B00K-Pi^T»8.— Will  anv  correspond- 
ent of  TOUTS  tell  me  what  are  the  charactenstdea 
of  the  Dook-plates  which  are  said  to  bare  heen 
engraved  bv  Hogarth  F  I  believe  that  he  executed 
some  for  John  Wilkes  and  Haaton  WilkM;  hut 
what  are  the  means  of  identification  f  Also,  what 
othen  did  he  eneTavn  P  Perhaps  your  learned  cor- 
Toapondents  J.  G.  Nichols,  E»q.  or  Db.  Howard, 
both  of  whom  are  well-known  experts  in  heraldry 
and  book-plates,  can  tell  me.         O.  ACKnrsoM. 


JjoKD  JBBnounB  OB  YmMLDBB. — Oonldyon 
isfonn  me  where  I  could  meat  with  an  account 
of  the  lands  held  by  Lord  Jartsolder  or  Yertwdder 
in  Scotland  P  He  emigrated  to  Fianoe  with  the 
king,  James  H.,  for  the  Catiiolic  raligioa  in  <x 
about  the  j«ar  1680.  Be  wm  Lord  tuF  England, 
and  after  being  in  fVanoe  he  went  and  Mtablishod 
himself  in  Antwerp^  where  he  remained  and 
married  himsalf  wiUi  Mils  Lathomver  of  Dender- 
monde  (Belgium)  (  he  then  changed  his  nami^ 
and  toME  that  of  De  Heydsr,  and  had  seven 
children,  Oubtavb  Rbdvbb. 

Rsr.  Ttxotht  Lbs  :  Aotworth  Chtbch. — ^Is 
there  sny  monnmental  inscription  in  Ackwotth 
church,  near  Pontefraet,  to  ReV.  Timotiiy  Lee 
and  bis  wife  Penelope,  who  were  living  there  in 
the  middle  of  tbe  last  century  P  O.  D.  O. 

Moirusu  QuBxm. — Information  is  teqaeeted 
respecting  some  menioiii  said  to  have  been  pnb> 
lished  by  a  Lady  Montagu,  wife  of  one  of  tbe 
Viscoonts  Montagu,  of  Cowdiny  and  Battle  Abbey, 
Sosssx.  Also,  whether  the  crest  or  badge  borne 
by  Sir  Anthony  Brovrae,  Great  Standard  Bearer  irf 
England  (fatfaarof  the  first  Visoonut)  was  a  black 
greyhound  P  C.  L.  W, 

PRIOBT  OP  Sr.  KTBBBiMir.— I  shall  feel  exceed- 
ingly obliged  by  your  permitting  me  to  use  your 
columns  in  clearing  up  an  anachronism.  I  am 
engaged  in  "  A  Sketch  of  the  Ueligions  Houses 
of  England  and  Wales,"  and  have  met  with  a 
difficulty  which  I  beg  to  propose  to  your  readers 
for  solution.  During  the  reign  of  David  I.  of 
Scotland,  the  piiory  of  St  Etheman  in  the  Isle  of 
May  waa  given  hj  that  sovereign  to  tlie  abbey  of 
Reading;  but  during  the  rule  of  Abbot  de  Bu^b- 
geto  (according  to  Cotes)  it  was  alienated  and  sold 
to  Bishop  de  uunberton  of  St.  Andrews.  F.  do 
Boitthgato  waa  Abbot  of  Reading  from  1268  to 
1387,  and  Bishop  Lamberton  was  not  consecrated 
til]  1296.  Did  the  tranefer  of  May  take  placo 
dnrinr  the  episcopate  of  Bishop  Froier  or  Bishop 
Gamelin,  or  Bishop  Wishart  (all  of  whom  were 
oontemporariee  of  Abbot  de  Burghgate),  or  waa 
it  donng  the  reign  of  his  successor,  Abbot  deQusp- 
pledn,  who  found  the  abbey  of  Reading  much  in 
debt  P  and  this  is  by  no  means  improbshle,  as  he 
succeeded  in  liquidating  tbe  debt.  I  know  that 
Bishop  Wishart  witnessed  two  charters  in  his 
episcopacy— (1)  of  a  grant  of  a  piece  of  land  by 
Patrick  Earl  of  Dmil»r  to  G.od  and  the  Bainls  of 
the  lale  of  Hay,  and  tbe  mtmka  there  eerriag 
God ;  and  f2)  a  grant  of  a  cow  yearly  to  the  same 
monks  by  the  same  nobleman,  but  we  also  have 
an  injunction  from  Bishop  de  lamberton  ordering 
the  prior  ot  SL  Etheman  to  pay  sixteen  marks 
nnnnally  to  the  Prior  of  St  Andrews,  which  had 
been  previously  paid  to  its  former  superior,  the  , , 
Abbot  of  Beudug.  Wonus  ov  Galwjlt^  i  ^ 


*<'8.Vn.Ai«n.8,'7l.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


305 


SfXTRIGU.  VBBSIOn  OT  CHB  FSALVB. — Csn  tmy 

correniondent  tell  me  who  wrote  the  fullawing 
line*  "  On  the  Veniona  "PI  found  them  on  the 
flj-Ieaf  of  &n  old  Greek  Testament  and  Prajer' 
book ;  intended  ^paientlj  as  a  kind  of  relish 
aftei  "  The  Whole  booke  of  Pealinee :  Collected 
into  Englisti  Metie,  with  &pt  Notee  to  aing  them 

■Oiili*  Vtnum. 
"WlMD  theBt^al  Pnlniiit  BtniDg  bis  inlieaLjit, 
God  nniM  upon  him  and  be  rang  with  fin ; 
The  Vnee  of  Mniic  Icot  nblimer  aid 
To  bnatbing  thonghti  In  boniing  worda  ttrajti. 
O  what  ■  fldi  is  hora  when  Bradj'  pabna 
Hia  limpiDg  aoKnl  off  for  Darld'a  Pialma  I 
AUain  alike;  thaMmadnUacnnnelzratea 
Id  Thomaa  Starnhold'a  aa  in  Nahum  Tate'a. 
Ona  with  crnda  baldnesa  aata  the  teafh  on  «dg«, 
Om  ereepa  maandaring  elit  with  alimv  aedga ; 
UDmaanlDs  platitndaa  the  lenn  impada, 
Aa  alnggiih  Tiran  with  tha  ndaoma  weed- 
Shall  wa  who  boaat  of  totaUeet  refined. 
Of  Bodal  progiBBS  and  the  maich  of  mind, 
SdD  DM  inch  jirgon  In  JebaTah'i  pmisa, 
And  ahlne  in  anj  bat  Telifricna  lays  t 


And  own  tbti  with  _.      _ 

T.  Fblion  Falctsb. 

Pumife  to  Deatb  bt  Tobtukb  mb  ixfutxd 
HxBVT. — What  eicecutionB  of  thia  kind,  by  formal 
c<»iBiniment  from  the  cfaorch  to  "the  eecnlu 
■im,"  are  recorded  between  the  period  of  the  per- 
secntions  by  the  Koman  emperors  and  the  inati- 
tation  of  ^e  inquintion  by  Gregory  IX.  about 
1233,  heaides  that  of  Arnold  of  Breecia,  who  was 
deUvered  over  by  Adrian  IV.,  our  countryman,  to 
the  dvil  governor  of  Rome,  rad  by  him  executed, 
and  his  body  burnt,  in  II66  P  Zbtbteb. 

Saints'  Eicblbu8.— In  the  course  of  some  re- 
pure  made  in  the  ye&r  1839  in  the  pariah  church 
of  Ste.Maiie  duGBatel,in  the  Island  of  Guernsey, 
aome  rude  freaco-puntingB  were  discovered  on 
the  north  aide  of  the  chancel  vault.  Three  dis- 
tinct subjects  are  depicted.  The  one  nearest  the 
«asl«ii  window  ia  either  the  Last  Supper  or  the 
anpper  in  the  house  of  Simon  the  leper ;  probably 
the  latter  is  intended,  as  there  are  traces  of  a 
figure  with  long  hair  lying  at  the  feet  of  the 
S&viour.  A  fiat  vanlt-nb  separates  this  (rem  the 
next  picture,  which  is  a  representation  of  the 
me^teval  legend  known  as  '^Le  fabliau  des  trois 
marts  et  des  trois  vifs,"  On  the  vault-rib  itself  a 
«Dgle  figure  is  depicted,  probably  some  eaiat  or 
martyr.  The  figure  ia  attired  in  a  lon^  dark-blue 
robe,  with  a  close-fitting  white  cowl  aod  Idppet, 
&om  the  back  of  which,  over  the  right  shoulder, 
bangs  a  red  lappet :  this  may  he  intended  to  re- 
jiiesent  blood.  The  right  hand,  which  has  eome- 
tbing  like  a  maniple  depending  trom  it,  holds  a 
flaffon  punted  yellow,  toe  left  a  chalice  coloured 
re£  Across  the  neck  is  laid  a  huge  hatchet  the 
head  of  which  is  over  the  right  shoulder  of  the 


figure,  and  Is  pdnted  bine,  with  stains  of  red 
towarda  the  edge.  There  is  no  nimbus  round  the 
head.  Do  these  emblems  afibrd  any  clue  aa  to 
the  person  intended  to  be  represented  P  A  great 
authorityin  matters  of  Bndent  costume,  the  late 
Colonel  Hamilton  Smith,  to  whom  I  sent  sketches 
of  these  paindnss,  pronounced  them  to  be  of  the 
first  quarter  of  t£e  thiitaenth  centun. 

Edoax  iUcCvLLOca. 

Gnenu^. 

SsBKon  0?  St.  Eloy,  ob  Euems. — Dr.  Msit- 
land's  readers  will  remember  the  famous  sermon 
of  Sb  ^loy,  which  was  so  strangely  mlsiepre- 
sented  by  Bobertson.  Has  any  English  tiansla- 
tiion  of  this  aennon  erai  been  published  P 

C.  D.  C. 

Sbwxll.— 
Sewell,  Master  of  the  E 
wife  Miss  HeathCP). 

I^It  sppean  from  that  eompendioa*  itorehensa  of  leeal 
biii|traph7,  Fosa's  BininapAicoJ  Dtctimtarf  of  tht  JmJ^ 
ofBngiavt,  that  Thomas  BcwbII  was  the  aon  of  Thomas 
Sawel!  of  West  Ham,  EaaeK;  and  hia  first  wife  was 
Catherine,  daughter  of  Thomas  Heath,  Esq.  o~ 
Manntfichst,  in  the  same  conDtv.  Hr.  Foas  qi 
-••—  --ithorities.  "  N.  &  Q-"  1-  3.  vU,  8"-  ^ 


Y.S.M. 


88;  2>a 


96.] 


■sqnol 
18,621. 


Wbbces. — Wanted,  1.  Name  and  publisher  of 
the  book  giving  an  account  of  the  wreck  of  the 
Anson  .about  Christmas,  1807,  on  the  bar  near 
Porthleven,  Cornwall. 

2.  Any  details,  &o.,  connected  with  the  wreck 
of  the  Susan  and  Rebecca  transport  lost  on  Gun- 
wakoe  Rocks,  about  the  same  dat«,  on  her  return 
from  Buenos  Ayrea  with  the  7th  Dragoons,  Mrt 
of  General  Whilelock's  army.  T.  H.  B. 

-[7^  Lea  of  tht  Anton  Frigate  on  Dec.  38,  1807,  with 
a  plate,  was  pablished  by  Thomas  Tegg,  til,  Che^iaide, 
about  tho  year  1810,  IBmo.  ConsnU  alao  Narrativf  of 
Shipwrtdu  of  tht  Bouai  Nam  bttattn  1793  imd  IB4S,  1^ 
W.  O.  8.  Gilly,  Lon£  1850,  Svo,  pp.  126-185.  We  sauMt 
discover  any  details  of  dw  wreck  of  the  Soaan  sad 
Bebecca.] 

OMBBE:  BOirrON. 
(4*  S.  Tii.  35, 167.) 
Your  correopondent  Z.  Z.,  under  the  heading 
"  Ombre,"  inquires  "  what  was  the  game  of  Bos- 
ton P  "  Boston,  as  I  have  seen  it  played  (1  believe 
there  are  varieties),  is  a  ^me  standing  midw^ 
between  whist  and  quadrille.  Four  players  hoM 
thirteen  cards  each,  the  value  of  the  cuds  being 
as  at  whist.  The  suits  are  arranged  in  an  order 
of  value,  diamonds  being  the  highest  The  simple 
form  of  the  rame  is  called  "  Boston,"  or  "  Ask 
and  Answer."  The  eldest  hand,  or  failing  him, 
the  next  eldest  and  so  on^  if  he  sees  he  can  make 
fire  tricks — a  cert^n  suit  being  tramps — "  |so- 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


C4<>8.TU.  AnuLS.'n. 


Bnd  if  DotluDft  higher  is  dedued,  the  gntne  pro- 
owd«,  the  two  being  bound  to  make  «ight  tricks, 
nnd  the  play  being  as  at  whist,  except  that  tie 

rinera  are  nut  neceBsarilf  opposite  each  other, 
proposal  in  a  higher  suit  puts  out  a  previous 
"  ask  and  answer  "  in  a  lower.  Honours  and  extn 
tricks  are  counted  after  a  prescribed  acale. 
there  is  no  answerer,  the  proposer  it  bomid  to  plaj 
alone  against  the  three  others,  and  to  make  hu 
five  tn(^ 

If  a  plajer  sees  that  he  can  make  ux  tricks 
playing  alone,  he  declares  a  "  little  independence  " 
in  any  suit,  or  a  "  great  independence  if  he  can 
make  eight.  A  "little  independence "  puts  out 
an  "  ask  and  answer,"  and  is  put  out  itself  by  a 
"  great  independence."  In  these  cases  also  one 
plays  alone  against  the  other  three,  the  suit  named 
Dein^  trumps.  Of  course  a  player  playing  alone 
receives  or  pays  the  stake  three  times  over  to  the 
other  players,  the  stake  being  arranged  on  a  gra- 
duated scale  according  t^  the  value  of  the  suits. 
But  the  most  interesting  variety  of  the  game  is 
the  "  misSre."  A  player  ma^  challenge  the  other 
three  to  make  him  wm  a  tnck,  in  which  case  he 
declares  a  "  mjc^,"  A  declared  "  misSre  "  puts 
out  any  independence  whatever,  and  in  playing 
for  the  "  mialie  "  there  are  no  trumps,  the  suit 
declared  in  merely  determining  the  amount  of  the 
stake.  A  misfire  can  only  he  put  out  by  declar- 
ing  a  ilem,  i.  e.  that  a  ceitain  suit  being  trumps, 
the  declarer  will  win  thirteen  tricks.  As  the 
game  is  sometimes  played,  a  "  petite  misire  " 
may  be  declared,  in  which  case  the  player  de- 
clares that  he  vrill  make  oiu  trick  and  no  more. 
A  little  misfire  puts  out  a  little  independence, 
but  not  a  great  one. 

The  origin  of  the  name  "  Boston  "  may  be  in- 
teresting to  Z.  Z.  The  Comte  de  Sdgur,  in  his 
Affmoirai,  ou  Sottvenirs  et  JjtecAit«t,  i.  77  (3rd 
edit.),  speaking  of  the  interest  taken  amons  the 
company  assembled  at  Spa  in  the  success  of  the 
Americans  in  the  early  days  of  the  war  of  inde- 
pendence, writee : — 


1  amMcune  piit  Mrtout  comnM  one 
mode:  le  Mvsot  jea  uriaii,  !■  wlat,  m  vit toot-i^conp 
rempUc^  duu  toui  ka  suona  par  on  jen  mm  mofna  gnvs 
qn'on  Domma '<  6o*(m.  CamoDvaDait,qDoiqii1lMaibla 
-  Man  Itgai,  iUU  on  notabto  prjuga  d»  gruidn  convul- 
ilrau  aazqucIlM  le  noode  eatjer  ni  denlt  pu  tirdei  k 
8tn  Utt^  etj'^ii  blm  loin  d'etre  le  aeal  doot  le  eoar 
■Ion  palpittC  aa  bnilt  dn  idvefl  naiasuit  de  la  UbettJ, 
cImkIudI  It  Mcoiwr  lejoug  dn  poovoir  arUcnira." 

I  do  not  wish  to  impugn  this  heroic  origin  for 
the  game,  but  if  less  tavarit  than  whist,  boston 
is  also,  me  ttiU,  moiru  groM.  The  various  com- 
binationa  I  have  endeavoured  to  describe  make 
the  game  a  very  lively,  not  to  say  a  noisy,  one. 
C.A.L. 


The  foUovring  deseriptioii  of  the  game  of  (Mnhre 
is  drawn  from  the  eighth  edition  oi  the  Conipfeat 
Omnaier  fwhich  devotes  no  less  than  eigfaty-nght 
pages  to  tne  game),  and  is  confirmed  and  Bupid»- 
mented  by  information  frota  other  sources : — 

Ombre  is  an  improvement  on  the  Spanish  game 
of  "Primero,''Bndderiveaitaname&omtheSpaniah 
JEl  Hombr* — The  Man — in  alluuan  to  the  thotudtt 
and  attention  required,  or  perhaps  referring  to  mm 
who  tuderUkes  to  play  the  game  aeainat  the  rest 
of  the  gamesters.  Ombre  may  be  played  by  two, 
by  three,  by  four,  or  by  five.  Ombre  by  throo 
(the  favourite  game)  was  played  vdth  forty  cards» 
ue  eights,  nines,  and  tens  being  thrown  ouL 
Ombre  packs  were  sold  for  the  purpose.  The  cards 
counted  in  their  natural  sequence  in  spades  and 
dubs,  the  two  black  aces  being  always  trumpti 
In  hearts  and  diamonds  king,  queen,  and  knave 
kept  their  natural  rank,  but  of  the  ordinary  cards 
the  lowest  in  number  counted  highest 

To  find  the  dealer,  give  one  cara  round,  and  ons 
to  bonk.  Whoever  has  the  highest  card  of  bank 
suit  deals.  The  dealer  deals  from  right  to  lefli 
instead  of  &om  left  to  right,  as  in  all  otner  gams^ 
and  the  players  play  in  like  manner.  Nine  cards 
are  dealt  to  each  player,  three  and  three  round, 
the  remaining  thirteen  from  the  bank.  After 
dealing,  if  none  thinks  himself  strong  enough  te 
attempt  for  the  stake,  all  pass,  and  contribute  to 
the  former  stake,  then  deal  again.  Whoever 
finally  attempts  is  called  the  "  ombre,"  and  plays 
against  the  other  two ;  the  winner  must  take  five 
tncks,  or  four  when  the  other  five  are  divided, 
nbce  chooses  which  suit  shall  be  trumps 
it  must  be  borne  in  mind  the  ace  of  spaoes 
is  always  first  trump,  or  Spadille ;  the  ace  of  dubs 
always  third  tramp,  and  is  called  fiasto ;  the 
second  trump  is  always  the  worst  card  of  trump 
suit  in  its  natural  order— that  is,  the  seven  in  red 
and  the  deuce  in  black  suits,  and  is  called  Manille. 
If  either  of  the  red  suits  is  trumps,  the  ace  of  that 
suit  is  fourth  trump,  and  called  Punto. 

Spadille,  Manille,  and  Basto  are  c^Ied  mata- 
dcres  or  murderers,  as  they  never  give  quarter: 
it  is  their  privilege  never  to  be  obliged  to  follow 
inferior  trumps — as,  suppose  I  hold  Basto  and  a» 
other  trump,  and  king  of  trumps  is  led,  I  need 
not  follow  vrith  Basto,  hut  may  renounce  trumpa 
and  play  from  another  suit;  hut  it  must  pay 
deference  to  its  superiors,  and  come  out  if  Spa- 
dille or  Manille  are  led. 

Ombre  may,  if  he  vriU,  discard  any  number  of 
his  hand  he  chooses  in  exchange  for  an  eqosl 
number  from  the  haok,  as  also  may  the  other  twix 
or  he  may  trust  to  his  own  hand,  which  is  called 
Sans  Prendre.  If  ombre  fails  he  is  bested,  and 
if  one  of  the  defenders  of  the  stake  wins  more 
tricks  than  he,  he  is  said  to  win  Codille,  and  takes 
op  the  stake  the  ombre  played  for.  , 

Quadrille,  <a  ombre  by  fiinr,  was  invented  1^  tb^  i  ^ 


4"'9.VU.Apwi.8,7I.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


French,*  and  diffen  from  the  fonner  guns  in 
haring  all  the  forty  tarda  dealt  out — to  each  per- 
■on  ten,  twice  three  and  once  foui. 

Id  Quintille,  or  ombie  by  five,  each  penon  has 
eight  cuda  d^t  him.  Then  ia  no  marking  at 
ombre.    Every  deal  deddea  the  game. 

JOHH.W.  FOHS. 


HOUSHIKG,  OB  BLACE-EDOED  TTBITIHQ 

PAPEB. 

(4"  S.  yii.  209.) 

W.  H.  S.  is  not  quite  correct  in  his  coDJecturea 
aa  to  the  time  wbm  bisdk-edged  quarto-aized 
paper  came  into  lue.  He  is  not  aware  that  there 
was  Vij  before  1840.  But  I  have  a  distinct 
recollectioD  of  quftrto  letter  paper  with  black 
edges  many  yean  before  1840,  uioug:h  I  cannot 
state  the  exact  time  of  its  introduction.  I  can, 
boweTer,  produce  letters  written  on  sheets  of 
quarto  cue,  with  black-edged  borders,  in  1836  and 
1837.  The  maker  of  that  paper  in  1836  was 
C  Penny,  London.  There  ia  no  date  in  the  wate> 
mark ;  but  we  may  fairly  conclude  that  the  paper 
had  been  made  a  year  or  two  earlier  than  1836, 
The  water-mark  on  the  paper  of  1837  is  "  Rich'' 
Turner,  Chafford  Mills.'  It  might  perhaps  be 
ascertained  on  inquiry,  how  Bona  either  or  both 
of  these  makers  had  be^un  to  supply  black-edged 

£per;  but  it  appears,  at  least,  that  the  mauu- 
^uce  was  not  confined  to  any  particular  places. 
Indeed  I  am  persuaded  that  the  use  of  such  paper 
had  become  common  many  years  earlier. 

Nor  do  I  consider  that  the  use  of  note  paper 
was  BO  connected  as  W.  H.  S.  supposes,  with  the 
establishment  of  the  penny  postage,  or  rather  the 
fiubstitutioa  of  weight  for  quantity  of  pM»eT,  aa 
the  regulatjng  principle  of  charge.  The  &vt  re- 
laxation of  the  postage  took  place  on  December  6, 
1839,  when  a  uniform  rat«  of  fonrpence  was  fixed 
for  weight  under  half  an  ounce :  then  on  Janu- 
ary 10, 1840,  the  TBte  was  made  a  penny  for  the 
aame  weighs  which  has  continuea  erer  since. 
Before  these  changes,  lett«ra  were  most  unequally 
charged.  If  a  letter  was  on  a  ungle  sheet  or  piece 
of  p^>er,  no  matter  how  large,  it  was  charged 
only  with  single  postage;  but  if  it  contuned  any 
encloeare,  however  small,  it  waa  charged  double. 
But  in  those  days  Memben  of  Parliament  had  the 
privilege  of  fianking  ten  letters  of  any  weight 
under  an  onnce,  and  of  reoaiving  fifteen  letters 
also  free  under  that  weight.  So  the  custom  pre- 
vailed of  tearing  down  a  sheet  of  letter  paper, 
folding  one  halTof  it  to  note  use,  to  write  upon, 
and  endoeing  it  in  the  other  half,  which  aerred 


*  "  Who,"  mjt  thg  OmaUat  Oamattr,  "  grsr  Rmd  of 
Bord^  Hill  cqnall.r  floU*  Id  tbdr  dnas  and  divanknu, 
ban  uoanUtsd  Mvoal  tenns  (tU)  apMi  tha  Spiiilih 


paper  and  eovelopee,  which  I  remember  many 


,  and  an  instance  in  the  mstter  of  envelopes 
deserves  a  record  in  "  N.  &  Q,"  Who  has  not  been 
annoyed  again  and  again  at  the  difficul^  of  opening 
letters  with  envelopes  gummed  up  ail  along  the 
top,  as  if  they  never  were  to  be  opened  P  I  re- 
ceived abont  a  year  ago  from  France  some  packets 
olmvdappei  perltt,  as  they  are  called,  iUjgeuiously 
contrived  to  obviate  the  aoove  inconvenience.  A 
thread  passes  along  the  inude  of  the  lower  part  of 
the  envelope,  with  i  small  bead  {p«rle)  projecting 
out  of  each  ^id.  The  following  direction  sppaaia 
just  over  the  sealing  place  of  the  eurelope: 
"  Baissei  une  perle.  Un  fil  coupe  le  has  de  I'en- 
veloppe."  The  enclosed  letter  is  thereby  at  once 
set  iree.  I  enclose  this  communication  m  one  of 
these  ingenious  contrivances,  which  I  think  well 
deserving  of  the  attention  of  our  stationers. 

F.  C.H. 

To  aaidst  your  coirespondent  W.  H.  S.  in  his 
inquiry  I  have  looked  over  a  ^eat  mass  of  cor- 
respondence now  in  my  pcaseasion,  from  Uay  10, 

The  first  letter  I  found  sealed  with  black  wax 
was  one  from  the  Prince  de  CaadS  to  my  grand- 
father, the  R^ht  Hon.  William  Wickham,  dated 
June  17, 1796. 

The  first  letter  I  found  written  on  black-bor- 
dered paper  was  one  from  the  Avoyer  de  Steimer 
of  Berne  to  my  grandfather,  dated  March  31, 1705. 
The  paper  is  a  small  quarto,  the  black  border 
rather  deeper  than  that  which  stationers  call 
"Italian  border,"  earned  round  both  aides  but 
not  down  the  division. 

I  have  found  a  letter  from  the  Duchess  of 
Wnrtemberg  (Ptincees  Royal  of  Enrland)  to  my 
grandmother,  Mrs.  Wickham,  dated  May  97, 1801, 
on  a  sheet  of  letter  paper  with  a  black  border  a 
trifle  wider  than  the  Italian  border,  but  rather 
leas  deep  than  the  letter  of  the  Avoyer  de  St«guer; 
it  is  put  on  the  paper  in  the  same  manner  as  in 
that  letter,  and  in  both  the  black  border  is  rough 
and  im^or.  It  vrill  be  noticed  that  all  these 
letters  are  foreign.  The  first  English  letter  with 
a  black  border  which  I  have  come  upon  is  one 
from  the  Marchioneas  of  Dowmjiire  to  Hr.  Wick- 
ham, dated  FebruaiT  S3, 1802 :  in  that  letter  the 
border,  about  Uie  Italian  width,  goes  round  the 
first  page  only  of  «  sheet  of  letter  paper. 

It  would  seem  from  what  hat  gone  before,  that 
the  black  border  is  older  than  «  mere  Uack  edge, 
and  was  used  at  flnt  very  sparingjiy.  It  is  certain 
that  whilst  monniiiga  andT  all  tn^nga  of  woe 
have  gradually  grown  leas  aerere,  the  depth  of  , 
black  Borders  on  writiar  paper  haaincnased;  we  K 
now  often  aee  p^ai  nu  widows  h  deep,  that' 


NOTES  AlTD  QtJBBIES. 


[4»B.Tn.AMii.8,'n. 


I  remember  se«ing 


Htfle  space  h  left  for  writitiK. 

p  at  Haneille*,  in  Oct  1866,  a  TuitiDS 
'    ' '    printed 


btue  space 
in  a  shop  i 

card  eDtirely  black  inih  the  name  only  pi_ 

'  in  white  t    Certainlr  the  dismal  ingenuity  of  sta- 
ticmen  could  no  AirtiieT  go. 
I  imagine  the  iacreaaed  depth  of  black  bordeie 


"the  public.' 


Qnb. 


Wnxux  WiCEHUt. 


There  ii  evidence  of  monming  or  Uack-edKed 
writing  paper  baring  been  employed  much  earlier 
than  your  querist  seems  to  suppose  was  the  case. 

In  Addison's  comedy  of  TheJDrumma-  (Act  IV, 
8c.  I)  there  is  mention  of  "my  lady's  mourning 
paper— that  is,  blacked  at  the  edges."  T^Zh^tn- 
ttur  came  out  in  1716.  W.  F.  Pollock. 

I  have  in  my  possesion  a  letter,  written  on  a 
qnarto-ased  sheet  of  letter  paper,  by  John  fifth 
Earl  of  Corke  and  Query,  with  a  black  border  a 

Jiiarter  of  an  inch  in  depth.    The  letter  is  dated 
an.  12,  1769.    Lord  Corke's  second  wife  had 
died  in  November,  1768,       EminirD  M.  Boilb. 
Eock  Wood,  Torqnsy. 


ADAH  DE  OBLETON, 
(4*  S.  viL  53,  151.) 

The  last  line  of  my  communication  to  "  N.  ft  Q.* 
should  rather  have  been  readilv  "  deduced  "  than 
"  ascertained  "  by  those  who  felt  interested  in  the 
subject.  I  did  not  intend  to  saggeet  that  I  pos- 
sessed any  source  of  informadcn  which,  was  not 
common  to  everf  other  int^uirer;  hut  I  submit 
that  history,  as  we  know  it,  discioeee  sufficient 
&cts  to  fully  justify  my  declaration,  that  Adam  da 
Orleton  had  nothins  whatever  to  do  with  the 
Latin  missive  relied  (m  to  hia  preiudic«  by  Mr. 
Tbw. 

Adam  de  Orleton  has  in  tuns  been  sWled  "  an 
Achitophel,"  "  an  artful  and  unprintnpled  church- 
man," "a  pitiless  traitor,"  "  a  master  fiend,"  and 
other  hard  names ;  but  despite  these  appellations, 
when  judged  by  the  standard  of  truth,  and  con- 
sidered in  reference  to  the  eventful  and  troubled 
times  in  which  ha  lived,  it  will  be  found  that  he 
merely  proved  himself  to  immeasurably  surpass 
all  bis  compeers,  not  only  as  a  man  of  consum- 
mate ability,  but  as  one  absolutely  superior  to 
all  the  influences  by  which  he  was  surrounded. 
Endowed  by  nature  with  the  keenest  powers  of 
perception,  tact,  and  prudence — indomitable  in  hie 

Surpose,  and  self-reliant  to  the  Isat  degree — 
.dam  de  Orleton  was  enabled  to  turn  every  phase 
of  public  and  political  existence  to  his  own  ad- 
vantage, and,  notwithstanding  he  lived  in  that 
mcmentons  period    of  Engbuid's  history .  ^en 


whicberer  party  ^ 
4lie  ascendant;  and  despite  the  power  and  malice 
of  his  numerous  enemies,  he  ended  a  long  and 
active  existence  as  the  occupant  of  one  of  die 
most  coveted  sees  in  the  kioKuom. 

It  has  been  alleged  that  ne  wrote  to  Sir  John 
Maltravers  and  Sir  Thomas  Gurnev,  at  Berkeley 
Castle,  urging  them  to  increase  tne  miseries  of 
tiieir  layalpruoner ;  and  to  Jut  pen  is  incorrecl^ 
ascribed  the  repetition  of  those  well-known  Latin 
lines  referred  to  by  Mb,  Tbw,  but  which  are  de- 
clared to  have  been  written  at  a  long  anterior 
date  hy  an  orchhiBhop  of  Strimoninm,  with  refer- 
ence to  Gertrude  Queen  of  Hungary. 

Bearing  in  mind  this  character  of  Orleton,  and 
his  policy  at  this  period  of  his  life,  it  seems  to 
me  to  be  incredible,  even  to  the  extent  of  being 
imposuble,  that  he  could  have  written  ^ther  the 
supposed  letter  or  the  I>atin  double  entendre.  To 
have  done  so  would  have  been  to  havs  placed 
himself  irrevocably  and  hopelesdy  in  the  power 
of  the  king's  mnrderera  and  of  thoee  who  directed 
the  foul  deed,  and  to  have  subjected  himself,  at 
any  moment,  to  certun  and  condign  punishment: 
about  the  most  improbable  courae  ao  snhtle  a 
diplomatist  as  Orleton  undoubtedly  was  wonld 
have  adopted.  Contrast  that  charge  with  the 
fact  that,  at  the  very  moment  of  Edward's  mar- 
der  at  Berkeley  Castle  (Sept.  22,  1327),  Adam 
de  Orleton  was  at  Valenciennes  at  the  court  of 
the  Count  of  Hainault,  selecting  a  bride  for  the 
murdered  king's  son.  Add  to  that  nndeniabls 
truth  that  Orleton,  then  Bishop  of  Hereford,  was, 
■_  ..._    ^f  jjjg  ^jjjg  month  of  September, 


ceater";  that  h„ 

spite  of  the  opposition  of  the  queen-motber  and 
her  unworthy  favourite ;  that  he  stood  high  in 
the  favour  of  Edward  lH,  and  in  AprilJSSe, 
was  appointed  one  of  his  ambassadors  to  France 
for  the  purpose  of  demanding  the  crown  of  that 
conntiT  in  Edward's  behotf;  that,  by  a  con- 
tinuation of  the  royal  favour,  he  was  in  1833 
translated  from  "Worcester  to  Winchester,  with 
Famham  Csstle  as  his  princely  re^dence,  and 
that  he  died  there  in  July,  1345 ;— and  I  believe 
that  from  such  facts  it  may  be  "  readily  deduced, 
or  ascertwned,"  that  the  memory  of  Adam  Orieton 
ought  to  be  altogether  free  from  any  stain  or 
blameinconnecfion  with  the  death  of  fid  ward  n.; 
and  that  the  coarse  of  conduct  adopted  towards 
Orieton  by  Edward  IIL  is  equally  void  of  evM 
one  susfdcion  that  he  rewarded,  or  even  intenoeil 
to  do  BO,  a  man  privy  to,  still  less  directly^  recom- 
mending in  writing,  tie  murder  of  his  wj*^ 
father. 

Hekbt  F.  Hoia. 
King's  Boad,  Clapham  Park. 


**8.TaAnw.ft'a.] 


NOTES  ANI>  QUEKIBS. 


309 


i  (4»  8.  TU.  90S,)— 
Tbwabs  mtb  ha  em  onlj  find  three  instuiow  of 
daaghtara  or  maten  of  tbe  reigtung  wovtatam  mar- 
tjing  British  gubjecto.  lanofthecaseof  MarRaret, 
jom^^eet  daughter  of  Edwud  III.,  a  fourthf  She 
named  John  HaatingB,  Earl  of  Pemhroke.  Then 
also  Joan,  daughter  M  Edwaidl.,  whoae  mar- 
liage  with  Gilbert  de  Ckre  ia  recorded,  married 
Mcondly  Halph  de  Uonthenner.  Thia  wonld 
^pear  to  be  another  caae.  Have  all  the  de- 
acsidantB  of  a  TojtX  prince  or  princes!  the  n^t 
to  quarter  roTal  arms  r  P. 

Laj>t  GBiifBTOir'B  Okitb  hi  Tswnr  Ohvsob- 
TAW)  (4"-  S.  TU.  76,  128,  172,  273.)— It  seema 
,  strange  that,  in  two  acooimtB  of  thii  tomb,  one 
should  state  that  there  was  a  nngle  ath  lite 
"growing  out  of  the  tomb,"  and  another  that 
"  seven  eim  treet  have  sprung  np  through  ^le  solid 
tomb."  We  Beem  to  waol  the  accurate  fact  of 
pretait  abearance,  for  the  Moot  tbnt  within  the 
endomre  of  a  edngle  tomh  would  be  a  ourioai^ 
independent  of  anj  legend.  If  the  common  elm 
(  UlmuM  contpabrii,  or  tuherotd)  be  intended,  there 
must  have  been  elm  trees  formerly  planted  in  the 
chnrchjard — scions  &om  which  must  have  pene- 
tmted  undei^TOund  beneath  the  tomh,  as  this  tiee 
never  springs  from  seed  naturaJlj  in  England ; 
■while  the  keys  or  seed-vessels  of  the  ash,  olown 
about  b;  winds,  settle  and  vegetate  wherever  they 
.can ;  and  I  have  seen  ash  tKss  growing  within 
neglected  tombs  in  several  country  chunihyards. 
A  few  yeara  nnce  I  noticed  an  altar  tomh  m  the 
churchyard  of  Perivale,  Middlesex,  within  the 
iron  rails  surronnding  which  had  sprung  np  two 
bswthonis,  a  taJl  asn  tree,  and  a  scrubby  eim, 
'With  a  fringe  of  brambtee  all  round  the  railing, 
and  ivy  twining  about  the  trunks  of  the  trees. 
With  difficulty  I  made  out  the  date  of  the  tomb, 
1731,  and  that  it  commemorated  Elizabeth  Colle- 
ton, daughter  of  Sir  Peter  Colleton,  Bart,  "  and  hy 
her  own  appointment  buried  here."  The  appear- 
ance of  this  vegetation  was  so  remarkable  that  I 
made  a  sketch  of  it,  and  a  few  more  years  I  should 
think  would  entirely  hide  all  but  the  bulging 
iron  railing  about  the  tomb.  May  I  ask  if  any- 
thing ia  known  about  this  baronet's  daughter,  and 
why  she  made  the  "  appointment  "  to  De  buried 
at  Perivale  P  Curiously  econ^b,  there  is  no  record 
of  the  maiden's  age,  which  it  would  thus  appear 
she  wished  to  be  concealed. 

While  on  this  subject  of  vegetation  sponta' 
neoualy  ot  self-sown  rising  on  or  ovet  tombi^  I 
may  mention  that  in  the  cbanoel  of  Eempaev 
i^rcb,  near  Worcester,  is  Uie  monument  with 
recumbent  figure  placed  against  the  north  wall  of 
'Sir  Edmund  Wylde,  Knt.,  who  died  when  high 
sheriff  of  Worcestershire  in  1620,  "solemnly  in- 
tarred  with  great  lamentation,"  and  by  dome 
means  a  seedling  horse-chestnut  bas  forced  itS' 


■wKj  Huoagh  the  wall  ftom  the  churchyard,  and 
ita  dictated  leaves  now  craopy  the  efBgy  of  the 
knight  in  a  veiy  el^iant  manner,  and  have  a 
cnnona  appearance  within  the  diurch. 

_  EDwmLxBfl. 

""  anminlt,  Wereestar. 


[ThB 


e  6f  Perivale  chnrchTBTd  has  been  already 


The  Whteb  Towkb  (4»  S.  vji.  211.)— In  reply 
to  Roman  I  would  remark,  1.  The  Bconan  camps 
were  merely  earthworks,  strengthened  sometimea 
by  palisades;  and  the  site  of  the  Tower  being, 
a  decided  mound  or  eminence,  amounting  probably 
to  a  hill  orig^oallv,  there  seems  no 'reason  why 
the  Romans  ahonld  not  have  regarded  it  as  a 
hold  or  citadel,  quite  sufficient  to  contain  a  g«r- 
rison  competent  to  overawe  ancient  London. 

2.  The  Wbito  Tower  never  could  have  been 
built  under  two  or  three  years'  time,  at  the  least. 

5.  The  supply  of  water  firom  the  Thames  must 
always  have  been  avfulable  for  tiie  inhabitants  of 
the  Tower,  without  any  need  of  a  well;  nnee 
the  river  had  free  influx  into  the  old  ditch,  and 
came  also  under  the  arch  at  Traitors'  Qate  until 
some  thirty-five  years  ago. 

St.  John's  Cht^l,  on  the  second  floor  of  the 
White  Tower,  is  one  of  the  finest  and  amplest 
specimens  existing  of  Norman  architecture,  and 
from  its  massive  proportions  must  have  been  an 
integral  portian  of  tne  original  structure,  in  the 
style  and  form  of  whit^  nothing  Roman  can  be 
traced.  The  exterior  having  been  unfortunately 
disfigured  by  Sir  Cbriatopher  Wren,  affords  no 
criterion,  but  there  is  nothing  Roman  in  the 
character  of  tie  Tower. 

4.  Whether  or  no  the  Textta  Roffentu  contains 
evidence  of  Gundulph'shand  in  the  Wliite  Tower, 
it  seems  admitted  that  he  built  Rocbester  Castle, 
and  that  be  was  the  great  military  builder  of  his 
day.  Tradition  has  always  ascribed  the  White 
Tower  to  him,  and  there  seems  no  cause  for 
doubting  it. 

6.  The  coropowtion  of  Roman  mortar  depended 
probably  on  the  materials  at  band,  but  no  doubt 
they  used  great  care  and  skill  in  preparing  it. 
Blood  would  be  a  very  bad  and  temporary  ingre- 
dient for  tempering  mortar.  It  may  be  doubted 
whether  the  "  preparation  "  of  the  'Tower  for  the 
Conqueror's  habitation  did  not  mean  interior 
arrangements,  hangings,  bedding,  kitchens,  and 
domestic  objects,  rather  than  any  andden  improve- 
ment of  tiie  defences. 

The  description  of  the  Tower,  :Ba  "  washed  1^ 
the  Thames  when  the  tide  rose,"  need  by  no  means 
apply  to  the  actual  base  of  the  White  Towsr, 
which  stands  a  long  way  back.  When  the  ditoh 
of  n  fortnes  is  filled  from  a  river  flovring  past  it, 
nothing  ia  more  common  than  the  expresaiou. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIE& 


[i*S.VII.  Apitu.8,7L 


"Ita  walla  ue  wubsd  byauch  or  sucbariTer," 
aod  that  was  moat  likely  the  way  in  wbidt  the 
Tower  was  alluded  to.  Db  U. 

"The  Hob  hi  ihx  Well"  (4"'  8.  vii.  201, 
3S0.) — Joho  Laguerre,  son  of  Louis,  whom  Pope 
immortaUaed  in  verae — 

"  Wheniprawl  theiaintaorTsiTlouidLignem," 
engraved  a  set  of  prints  of  "  Hob  in  the  Wall,"  a 
copy  of  which  ia  at  Stanford  Court,  and  attached 
to  each  print  aome  ludicrous  verses  in  Somerset- 
sbiie  disJect,  poasiblj  verr  popular  in  their  day. 
Thob.  K  WumorflTON. 

SuofoTd  ConK,  Wottcitar. 

I  have  beard  it  anggeeted  that  this  alehouse 
sign  at  Ltdq  was  the  name  of  a  character  in  some 
popular  play.  Hob  was  a  nickname  formed  from 
Robert,an<i  couTejed  the  idea  of  ila  owner  being  a 
country  clown  (Lower'a  Fatronj/mica  Brilamiiea). 
In  Larwood  and  Hotten'a  Hitiory  of  Signboarda 
(third  edition),  the  name  of  this  sign  ia  aaid  to 
be  borrowed  from  an  old  nuraeiy  fable.  If  this  is 
right,  can  any  reader  of  "  N.  &  Q."  cire  a  ver^on 
of  the  fable,  or  the  name  of  any  books  where  it  is 
to  be  fonnd  P  S.  E.  L. 


opera,  which  was  a  popular  favourite  in  the  last 
century.  In  country  mns  we  frequently  find  a 
set  of  comic  pictures  lepreaenting  the  various  events 
of  the  piece.  An  amateur  actor  (Mr.  lUcbanl 
Garra  of  Grasaington),  who  many  years  ago  emi> 
grated  to  America,  uaed  to  boaat  of  hia  pertorm- 
ance  of  Hob,  and  he  would  occaai  jnaily  volunteer 
a  "  recitation  "  of  aome  favourite  passage. 

Stxfsbn  Jacksoit. 

ABita  or  Flekibh  Faxiubb  (4>'  S.  vii.  11.) — 
LiBLACB  will  find  auch  a  work  in  the  Royal 
Library,  Brussels.  Sp. 

CooKBs:  CooKB8Br:  Cooks  (4"  3.  tU.  11.) — 
Your  correspondent  will  find  a  notice  of  the 
second  name  in  Mtmoriak  of  fA«  Surname  ArcAtr. 
Sp. 
QFOiinoH  (4*  a  iv.  176.)— 
"  Friends  part. 
Til  the  ntrrivor  di«." 
To  be  found  at  the  end  of  Night  Y.  of  Young^ 
If^ht  Thought.  T.  P.  F. 

A  Spithh  LiiHi)  (4*'  S.  vii.  190.)— The  anec- 
dote related  by  S.  L.  u  somewhat  differently  told 
by  Dr.  Bobert  Chamben  (Picture  of  SeoOmd, 
i.  387).  The  ducheaa  is  there  aud  to  bave 
"  called  ont  in  her  usual  lua^  way  to  tbe  coach- 
man to  drive  with  all  bis  migh^  'elae  Tarn  o' 
Closebum,'  she  exclaimed, '  wilt  get  in  before  us 
and  lick  the  butter  off  oar  bread.' "  Tbe  duke's 
obeerration  being:  '"Why,  my  Lady  Ducheaa, 


let  me  tell  you  tbia  eentleman'a  ancestor  was 
Knight  of  Closebum,  while  mine  waa  only  Oode- 
man  of  Drumlanrig  I ' " 

But  I  doubt  the  trath  of  either  veruon.  The 
first  DoukIbs  of  Drumlanrig  waa  a  baatard  son  of 
the  doughty  earl  who  fell  at  Otterboume,  and  he 
had  obtaioed  this  important  barony  before  hii 
father's  death:  for,  on  Dec.  5,  1388,  he  was 
guaranteed  in  its  poesesaion  by  a  charter  from  his 
grandmother,  tbe  Countess  of  Douglas  and  Mar, 
and  bar  second  husband  Sir  John  Swinton  of 
Swlnton  (Drumlanrig  Charters);  and,  as  "Sir" 
William  Douglaa  of  Drumlanrig,  he  obtuned  a 
very  remarkable  charter  from  King  Jamee  L, 
while  tbia  prince  was  a  state  prisoner  in  England. 
It  is  dated  at  Croydon  last  of  November  1412, 
and  holograph  of  tbe  king,  and  confirms  to  Sir 
William  all  his  landa  m  Scotland,  viz.  Drumlanrig, 
Hawick,  and  Selkirk  (Queensberry  Cbartera) ;  and 
see  art.  "  Hawick  "  in  Orig.  Par.  Scotia  (vol.  L), 
where  there  ia  a  vary  interesting  account  of  Sii 
William's  succeasora  and  tbeir  tenure  of  that 
barony  from  the  crown.  Aa  theterm  "gudemsn" 
waa  neiw  applied  to  tbe  owner  of  a  barony  or  bold- 
ing  under  the  sovereign,  which  these  Douglassea 
were  ab  origint,  the  anecdote,  like  many  ^milai 
traditdons,  must  be  incorrectly  given.  At  the 
same  time  tbe  Eirbpatricks  were  undoubtedly  of 
much  older  standing  in  Dumfriesshire,  dating  from 
tbe  twelfth  or  thirteenth  century;  and  even  a 
magnate  like  the  Duke  of  Queensberry  might, 
without  detracting  from  bia  own  importance, 
mildly  rebuke  tbe  lady  duchess  by  telling  her 
that  tiiere  were  Knights  of  Closebum  long  befoie 
there  waa  a  Laiid  of  Drumlanrig. 

AnsLO'ScoTtrs. 

"ApBfes  KOI  LB  DtLroB"  (4"-  8.  vii.  188.)— 
Ifind  inEd.Foumier'aZ'.BfprfdtowfjErMfovv.'— 

"April  Kui  It  diliigtl  dbalt,  mSma  iva  a,  pliu 
grands  prosp^rit^  madams  de  Pampadoor  (£aoinria 
moTTiue  dt  J'oiipado-r,  «a  t£ta  da  Mimmra  de  ma- 
Oam*  dn  Hmuttt,  1824,  ia-8To,  p.  xix),  qoi  lOjiit 
paindre  d^ji  toot  an  loio,  k  I'hoiiion  de  la  rorauie,  le 
grain  *  rtvalalionniira.  Cette  parola  de  nonchiunt 
cvniaDS  dma  la  prophetic  a  4li  ■nuvsnC  t^'^  ** 
chaqae  fois  on  I'a  miae  sar  le  cuinpie  de  Louis  XV.  Elh 
Aiit  li  bien  le  mot,  I'expTeerioa  da  ce  r^e  an  joo''  ■■ 
jooT,  qa'oa  pou^t  que  la  roiMmnsu  pouvalt  MolriTew 
dlte.  Pereomia  na  vit  mieox  qoa  Ini,  qui  Aut  an  •om- 
met,  venir  de  ]aia  ce  grand  orage." 

FrmiBSS  Abbbt  amd  imt  Chbtham  SocrBTi 
(4'»  8.  vii.  74.)  —  The  Couobet  Book  of  this  abbey 
has  long  been  bnown  to  the  council  of  the  Chst- 
ham  Sodety ;  but  it  is  not,  a»  A.  E.  L.  concludes, 
in  tbe  poaaeamoo  of  the  Duke  of  Devonshire.  The 
information  contunad  in  "detached  parehmeata 
in  the  dnke's  muniment  room  at  Hdter,  auppMrf 
to  be  fragments  of  tbe  Fumesa  Concber  F" 


*  Ontiit,  aa  a  nanUeal  t« 


awUitirindl^ 


tc 


4<kS.TIL  AnuL8,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


311 


-will  probablT'  be  tauoi  to  bnve  been  utilited  hj 
Dggdals,  West,  ud  Beck.  Tbe  orifrioBl  volame 
is  ID  the  Record  Office,  uid  is  brieflj  named  in 
the  "  Deputj-Keeper's  xixth  Report,"  p.  4.  It 
lURj  interest  your  coirespondent  to  know  that  it 
consists  of  660  pages  of  Teltum,  sod  that  the 
writing  is  not  later  than  the  fourteenth  century.  , 
The  first  portion  conwsts  of  the  chartulary,  and 
the  Utter  of  popes'  bulls  granting  privileges  to 
tbe  abbej,  and  the  expense  of  a  tmnscript  of  the 
enUre  volume  would  amount  tn  07L  13».,  which 
is  beyond  the  means  of  the  Chetham  Society. 
The  cost  of  obtaining  the  transcripts  of  the  "  Ro;al 
Commissioners'  Reports  of  tbe  Lanenshire  Chr" 
tries,"  printed  bv  the  Chetham  Society  in  IS  . 
and  referred  to  W  A.  E.  L.,  wm  defrayed  by  a 
f«w  personal  fiends  of  tbe  editor,  and  not  by  tbe 
society.  F-  R-  R- 

LiMCASHiitB  WncHsa  r4*  S.  vii.  237.)— I 
imagine  the  g&Uants  of  all  EoKUah  counties  apeak 
of,  and  maybe  tout,  the  ladies  as  witches.  In 
nay  county  I  hare  often  heard  a  song  the  choriu 
of'^which  Igive:  — 

"  TfafQ'  are  handomc,  they  are  charming 
Thcr  are  lovely,  giy,  and  fair : 
The'prMtltat  0rli  In  England  see— 
The  girl*  of  Dertiyshire." 

'hob.  RATCLinB. 

"A  MoirsisVB,  HoBBiBDB  A,  B."  (4*  S.  to. 
1S8.)— I  cannot  agree  with  Mb.  Fiufcis«vz- 
Mtchbl,  though  I  take  him  to  be  a  Frenchman, 
M  to  his  interpretnUon  of  this  matter.  Steur  does 
not,  and  never  did  mean,  tnortseignatr.  All  the 
old  works,  If^  instruments,  books,  and  nov 
alike  mark  the  strongest  distinction  between  thi 
The  repetition  is  a  mere  form  of  respect,  as  if  we 
■were  to  write — 

"  To  tbe  Qentleman, 

Mr.  A.  B." 

MifUMuer,  if  at  all  a  recognised  word  (which  I 
doubt),  must  be  a  substjutive  of  itself,  made  from 
nwHuu,  with  a  termination  indicating  a  man,  and 
is  pnrely  a  sailor's  word.  The  bishop  was  always 
31on  Setgnair,  however  the  form  of  the  word  might 
for  convenience  sake  be  abridged  (as  "M.  S"') 
in  writing.  Me.  Michbl  would  have  some  ap- 
pearance of  support  for  his  theory  by  referring  to 
**  Monsieur "  as  the  title  given  to  the  eldest  son 
of  the  king  or  his  heir  (apparent  or  presumptive), 
but  this  was  one  of  the  conveniences  of  court 

r:h :  for  Mon  Seigneur  would  aptly  designate 
king  himself  while  lionrntur  might  well  be 
applied  to  the  prince,  and  would  be  then  employed 

^B  tliB  Aflnitralant  tn  ihf  R^ntiOi  "  TIlA  ItfiutAP*'  nv 


I  heard  it  at  Stourbridge  in  1835,  was:— Two 
oollieis  reading  a  notice  that  tbe  new  chnrcb 
would  be  consecrated  by  the  bishop.  "  What's  a 
bisbm),  Jem  F  "  "  Dunno,  but  T'll  lay  a  shilHn  as 
our  Ilose  pins  un,  whatever  nn  is." 

The  Lye  Waste  is  a  common  near  Stourbridge. 
Its  population  then  was  very  rough,  and  had 
grown  up  without  instruction  or  police.  From 
neglect  of  tbe  lord  of  tbe  manor  man^  freeholders 
bad  obtained  their  estates  by  occupation,  without 
recognising  his  rights,  for  twenty  years.  Those 
who  bad  not  completed  their  time  were  very 

1'ealous  of  strangers,  whom  the^  suspected  to  Ite 
svvyers  looking  out  for  defective  titles.  I  was 
told  that  if  I  went  there  alone  I  might  hear, 
"  Dost  knaw  nn,  Jem  P  "  "  Naa."  "  Hull  a  stun  at 
on  then."  Accompanied  by  one  who  was  known 
to  the  natives,  and  not  a  lawyer,  I  looked  at  them 
and  the  place,  and  was  not  molested.  I  did  not 
admire  either.  Probably  both  are  now  improved. 
Bininghere  about  twenty  years  ego  with  Leech, 
Albert  Smith,  and  Hamilton  Reynold^  I  told 
these  stories  as  above,  and  Leech  said  he  could 
moke  something  of  tbem.  He  did  so  in  itecA. 
I  am  the  only  surviyor  of  the  party,  but  I  men- 
tion tbe  names  of  mj  friends  as  men  of  extensive 
knowledge  in  faediii,  to  whom  tbe  stories  then 
were  new.  I  said  nothingthat  would  have  war- 
nnted  I^mch in  putting  "Fact." 

FnzHOFZivs. 
Gsirick  Qub. 

How  far  ibe  acboolmaster  ffoea  abroad  in  Lan- 
cashire and  an  instance  of  "filial  piety"  maybe 
a  story  which,  I  believe,  is  not  an  "  old 
joke,"  and  which  was  related  as  known  to  my 
mformant  A  man  who  had  a  buU^terrier  pup 
went  oat  vrith  bis  son  to  blood  it,  which  is,  I  sup- 
pose, to  make  it  draw  and  taste  the  blood  of  some 
wild  animal  They  came  to  a  hedge,  when  the 
father  took  one  side  and  the  son  and  the  dog  the 
other.  As  they  found  nothins,  the  father  put  his 
bead  to  the  ground,  and  imitated  tbe  noise  of 
•ome  creature.  The  dog  was  unexpectedly  through 
the  bedge  in  an  instant,  and  fastened  on  the  man'i 
nose.  The  ofiectionBte  eon  seeing  it,  was  greatly 
excited,  and  called  out,  "Bide  it,  feytber  I  bide 
iti  it'll  bee  th'  maHrin  o'  th'  pup."  Euxteb. 

"Thb  Stbiioht  Gats  aito  Nabbow  Wat" 
(4"*  8.  vii,  93.) — A  hundred  years  hence,  when  the 

Erinter's  devil  is  dead  and  buried,  "  N.  &  Q."  will, 
fear,  unless  you,  Mr.  Edilo^  enter  your  timely 
protest,  be  cited  as  an  anthoritj  for  spelling 
''strait"''   ■    •  '  —  


'  strait "  "  stnugbt." 


C.  8. 


"ks  the  equivalent  to  tbe  Scotch  "The  Master, 

to  our  form  of  address  to  a  prince  of  the  blood  e 

"  Sir,"    The  sovereign  is  "  Sre."  C.  C. 

Thb  Schoolvastbb   Abboad   nr  Statpobd-  I  the  celebrated  Andrew  Cant.*  Than      __ 
■HiBB  (4*'  B.  ril  121, 180.)— The  first  itoij,  as  \  Bay,  a  Uttle  east  of  North  Berwick.    Tbe 


Thb  Pbiobt  ot  OoLoivsHAif  (4**  8.  viL  187.) 

Cant's  Kirk  is  tbe  appellation  given  by  fishermen 

'-  a  church  in  Aberdeen  (parah  Pitaligo),  after 

__,.v__.  I  .    ,    ..  ^    .    ™  ..  ig  j^(j,aty 


312 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4»8.VIL  J 


[i.8,7L 


Cant  may  be  flmn  BiidBh  eant,  t  drale,  the  rim 
of  anjtluii^  round.  Conf.  the  Oermvi  name 
Kaat  (hmt,  on,  marfto,  eztremitas  i«i,  oAie,  cii- 
culiu,  anguluB  ).  There  Are,  however,  the  Freoch 
Homames  Oanet,  Caoot,  Canut,  Canty,  which  maj 
be  diminutiTes  of  CaaD,  Caone  (Etigliab  Oaiie, 
CaDn),  doubtless  the  aame  aa  Caoey,  Cbenej, 
Cheenej,  from  the  old  French  ekimw,  modem 
French  chine,  an  oak  tree  (jjtieroiu,  queraiiu,  quer- 
nut,  queauu,  gueme,  chime).  Cantv  Baj  maj 
derive  its  name  &om  the  Qaelic  Ceanm-Tatha, 
head  of  the  Taf  (perhaps  the  ori^al  appellation 
of  the  Forth),  a  name  which  might  be  given  to 
saj  river,  seeing  that,  etymologically,  it  means 
simplj  river.  One  of  the  chief  tributaries  of  the 
Forth  above  Stirlioo:  is  the  Tetb,  L  t.  the  Tatb 
or  Taj.  Cant'a  Bridira  may  umply  mean  bridge 
of  the  Cant,  •'.  e.  the  Can,  t.  q.  Cam. 

£.  S.  Chabxook. 

LBTfBB  OF  Edwaeb  IV.  (4*  &  vii.  229.)— It 
is  much  to  be  hoped,  in  the  interesta  of  historj, 
that  the  purchaser  of  the  MS.  letter  purporting 
to  be  written  bj  Edward  TV.  in  1460  maj  act 


signatures  carefully  examined  hj  experts ;  for  the 
genuineness  of  this  letter  involves  the  doubt  as  to 
whether  the  hiatorical  detculs  of  Hall's  Chronicle 
are  as  accurate  as  thej  are  precise.  In  the  mean- 
while those  who  have  not  inspected  the  MS.  can 
onlj  form  their  judgment  or  its  value  from  the 
internal  evidence  of  its  style ;  and  with  all  defer- 
ence to  Ma.  Gaibshbr,  I  would  ask  whether 
there  are  not  sxpreerions  in  the  body  of  t/ie  doea- 
ment  to  excite  grave  suspicion  of  ita  genuineness  f 
Does  he  find  in  uiy  contemporary  letters  of  un- 
doubted authentidty  that  the  King  of  England  at 
this  period  ever  B^led  himself  "  Regia  Majestas 
nostra  "  or  "  Sacra  Regia  Msjestas,"  or  that  the 
Duke  of  Mihm  was  uauallj  sddreeeed  in  state 
papers  as  "  Eicellentia  Vestra  "  ?  There  is  no 
difficulty  whatever  in  positively  anawering  these 
two  questions  to  any  one  who  baa  accesa  to  the 
Bodleian  labrary,  for  amongst  the  Ashmolean 
MSS.  (No.  789)  is  preserved  the  letter-book  of 
Bishop Beckington,  secretaryofstate  toHenry  VI,, 
which  includes  the  forms  and  set  phrases  of  his 
official  correspondence,  "  colores  verborum  et  sen- 
tentiarum."  The  stjle  of  the  Dukes  of  Milan,  and 
the  mode  in  which  they  were  addreaeed  in  formal 
letters,  will  appear  &om  the  Documenti  D^/lo- 
maUai  lately  printed  &om  the  Milanese  Archives 
hy  Signoi  Luigi  Quo.  Tswaaa. 

ALBUtBT  Axs  Akorsbvillb  (4'^  S.  vii.  384.) 
In  answer  to  part  of  H.  S.O.'s  query — "Did  Uve- 
dale  marry  an  heiress  of  Amondeville  P  " — it  is 
very  probable  one  ot  that  name  did,  for  at  the  end 
of  the  uzteenth  century  the  Uvedalea  (whow 


„  ,  cross  moline  gulsa,"  aa  H.  3. 
G.  rightly  supposes)  are  found  to  quarter  (mts- 
idia)  "  Azure,  a  fret  or,"  whether  AmondeviUe  or 

not.  For  this  statement  there  is  the  foUowiiw 
oTidenee,  which  H.  S.  G.  vriU  find  in  the  second 
volume  of  Hutchins'  Hiitory  of  Dorset  :^Iii  tlie 
church  of  More  Crichel,  Dorset,  appear  the  armo- 
rial bearings  of  the  Uvedales,  wherein  the  fourth 
quartering  is  "  OtjB  fret  aaire  "  (reveraing  the  tinc- 
tures). And  in  Wimborne  Minster,  in  the  same 
county,  there  is  a  very  fine  monument  to  Sir 
Edmund  Uvedale,  who  died  circa  1806  (which  I 
myself  have  seen,  though  I  did  not  at  the  time 
particularly  notice  the  quarterings),  in  which 
the  fifth  quartering  is  properly  given  as  "  Azure, 
afretor."  And  again,  Robert  Uvedale,  writing  to 
the  Gent,  Mag.  vol.  lixx.  part  ii.  p.  31  (as  he  more 
than  once  did  on  the  same  subject),  gives  the 
quarterings  of  his  family  as  copied  from  the 
church  at  Wykeham  (the  seat  of  the  Hajnpshira 
and  elder  branch),  and  the  fourth  is  there  "Aiuie, 

In  the  pedigree  given  by  Hutchins  I  can  find 
DO  mention  of  the  name  of  Amondeville,  though 
there  is  a  blank  or  two  left  where  a  wife's  name 
should  come  in.  Neither  can  I  in  the  one  re- 
corded by  Berry  in  his  County  Oeae<Uoyie$  of 
UaaU. 

Edmondson  gives,  in  his  Olover't  Ordinary, 
under  the  head  of  "  Frets,"  "  Azure,  a  fret  or,  for 
MandeuiU,"  though  at  the  same  time  I  cannot 
find  that  he  specifies  the  arms  of  AmondeviUe  or 
Mundevill  amongst  the  host  of  others  he  com- 
piled. J.  S.  UsAi. 

'  -'-- Qnb. 


"  Pkh  op  an  Ahqel'b  Wnra  "  :  WoBrswosTB, 
CoHBTABLB,  ETC.  (4'»  8.  vji.  233.j~The  same 
beautiful  thought  is  expressed  by  John  Evelyn,  ia 
his  life  ofMr'e.  OoMphin  (London,  W.  Picker- 
ing, lfe48,  p.  4)  :— 

"  It  ironid  become  a  stsMlicr  hand,  and  the  peen  of  sn 
Aegella  wing,  to  daoritx  tha  life  of  ■  Salot,  who  is  now 
amooEat  thOK  lUiutrioai  orden."  _ 

T.W.C. 

Janitbt  Family  (4*  S.  vi.  276,  866.)— I  .^ 
well  acquainted  with  John  Janney,  a  retired 
civil  service  servant  I  have  not  aa  jet  been  able 
to  communicate  with  him,  but  in  a  short  time 
ahall  be  able  to  do  so.  In  the  bteiim  anytbhig 
addressed  to  him  may  be  forwarded  to  my  caie. 
G.  T.  FVUJM. 

IS,  Oabome  Street,  Hall. 

G.  CAMPHArBM  (4*  S.  vii.  18a)-Adoi^ 
Sirat's  valuable  work,  DicOoimaire  Awtorijw  "T* 
Pnnlret  (2nd  ed.  Paris,  1866),  may  be  useful  " 
T.  S.  A.  G.  »■  '■\ 

"Vebitab  IK  Pdteo"  (4*  S.  vi.  47*;  ™- 
108.)— Diogenes  Laertins  records  this  wj™?" 
Damocritna  in  iaa  Life  of  Pyrrho,  lib.  ix-  ««»• 


4*S.VIL  ArBn,a,'7L] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


313 


72. 


Of. 


I)  mUr  Oiar-  ir  BoSm  yap  4  iiJiSti 

Cicero,  Academica,  i.  13.    Tumebua  in  Comment. 
remarks: — 

"Cicero  in  Looillo  {Acadancomm,  libro  iecqndD], 
Naturun  iccaaa  qay  In  pronicda  Teritfitem,  at  ait  De- 
mocrituB,  pcnitDi  abitnuerit.  Simile  est  illad  Scuecie 
N.  Q.  Tii.  32.     Vix  ad  fimdum  erminlwr,  in  gwj  ttritai 

mmt.  Yectw  aaiit  Dmociiti,  ic.  See  tlao  Fabri  ComniaU. 


Nun  quia  poaait  nuuitem  nutgni 
SpecUra  Jovis  ?  fondo  ills  ciieL" 

^scbyliu  et  Giotiiu. 
BiBUOTHBOAB.  ChBTHAH. 

Puinmia  and  Jbstlkq  ok  Nahkb  (4*^  S.  n. 
864,  681  i  vii.  106.)— Dr.  Samuel  Goodenough, 
Bubop  of  Carlisle,  preached  before  the  House  of 
Commons  in  1795,  and  before  the  House  of  Lords 
in  1800.    On  one  of  these  occauons  the  following 


"  lis  wctl-esoasb  that  GoodeoonKh 

Bofbre  ^e  HooBe  ahould  preach  ; 

For  BBre-enoagh  fall  bad-enough 

Are  those  he  bu  ta  teach." 

Tb«  lines  are  Kiven  in  Nichob'  Ilhutratiotu  of 

ZHerature,  vi.  251.  H.  P.  D. 

BAtiASALLBT  (4*  3.  -n.  475,  583 ;  vii.  176.)  — 
There  are  two  places  in  the  Isle  of  Man  called 
Ballasalla;  one  a  small  village,  and  tlie  other  an 
eatate.  Thev  are  both  low-ljing  places  near  the 
sea-coaat  May  not  the  word  oe  derived  from 
SaBeff,  Manx  for  placej  and  laiHej/,  Manx  for 
aei'Water  ?  Moitenbis. 

FixiiBKirs  Flowers  (4"  S.  vi.  644;  vii.  104.) 
Although  the  quotation  furnished  bj  Miaa  Hab- 
BiBOR  is  to  be  met  with  in  the  firet  volume  of  Th« 
SeS^uary,  1660-61,  page  133,  no  one  will  dispute 
Its  tight  to  be  refiroduced  in  vour  pages.  It  ia 
exceedin^lj  Interesting,  and  calls  for  further  re- 
search ;  I,  e. ,  am  1  in  error  in  auppoaing  that  the 
plant  alluded  to  is  the  Pubrtimaria  maculota, 
spotted  lungwort,  or  cowslips  of  Jerusalem  P  "  It 
is  planted  in  gardeop,  and  ffowera  in  May," 

Miss  Haskisoh  mentions  (in  ouotadon)  "Tal- 

bnrj  Oastlo."  Should  this  not  be  Tutbuir  Castle  F 

Anent  Findem  fires,  commonly  called  tindlea. 

Doee  this  custom,    mentioned  bv  Brand  in  his 

Fopviar  AtUiqmti^,  still  exist,  or  has  it  been  pnt 

■n  end  to  "  for  want  of  the  wonted  materials  "  r 

J.  Mahuxl. 

Keweaitlfrai-l^e. 

I  greatly  admire  the  poetry  of  the  prose  extract, 
but  should  very  much  like  to  ask  the  question,  is 
the  anecdote  true  P  for  on  referring  to  my  scrap- 
book  I  find  that  a  precisely  Mmilar  anecdote  of 
"  Aylmer's  Flower  "  was  quoted  in  Pleasant  Boun 
of  June  1868,  ont  of  the  Ltterary  C/mnAman. 

W.tt 


Skbth  (J**  S.  vi.  474 ;  vii.  43, 175.)— I  ohould 
be  glad  to  have  an  exiJonation  of  L.  N.  0.  N.'a 
meaning  in  the  following  (which  at  present  aeems 

to  bo  some  play  upon  Sf.  ande.p.-ttntproie; 
but  until  1  clearly  understand  the  sentence,  I 
could  not  pretend  to  reply) :  "  There  is  a  .  .  . 
family  name  of  Sf.'s  wnich  often  appears  in  pedi- 


8p. 

Babiolohao  Diaz,  tks  Disoovekke  or  thb 
Caps  Roittk  (^i*^  S.  vii.  102, 196.)^— Bouillet,  in 
bis  DicHtmaaire  universel  ^Hutoire  k  de  Oio- 
graphie,  gives,  like  Qalvano,  1486  as  the  year  of 
this  important  discovery;  and  he  adds,  at  the  word 
Cap :  ''  La  colonie  du  Cap  fut  fond6e  en  1650  par 
lea  Hollandua  (164  ons  aprda  la  dtoiuverte  du 
Cap  de  Bonne -F^p^rance)    which  makes  it  in  fact 

A.D.  148a 

The  great  navigator  was  conect  in,  giving  it 
the  name  of  Gap  des  Tourmentes,  for  on  a  sub- 
sequent voyage  bis  vessel  foundered.  Still  there 
are  times,  as  I  have  myself  witnessed  on  my  re- 
turn from  China  in.  May  1833^  when  Uie  sea  off 
the  Cape  is  as  smooth  as  a  looking-glass. 

P.A.L. 

SiOKU  Boras:  Botsb  Mohxy  (4?"  S.  vii. 
236.) — "  Sickle  boyne  "  seems  to  be  personal  ser- 
vice— that  of  a  reaper  or  shearer  (as  of  com  in 
autumn)  with  the  sickle,  who,  in  the  character 
of  cottar,  tacksman,  vassal,  &c,  was  iomiden  to 
perform  such  service  to  his  over-lord,  under  con- 
tract, or  W  some  well-established  custom  of  the 


Tuption,  as  seems  the  opinion  of  llishop  W.  Kennet, 
of  hotmden,  or,  if  not,  of  at  least  fnddan  (Sax.),  to 
pray  or  entreat  (Glossary  to  .?br.  Aiitiq.  voce 
"  PiBCaria").  "Boyne  money,"  or  "boon  silver,"  ' 
seemingly  the  same  in  import,  was  the  money 
commutation  pcdd  by  the  obfigee  for  such  personal 
service.  The  expression,  "  ioon  of  shearers,"  is  yet 
quite  common  in  Scotland ;  and  says  Blount,  in 
mentioning  the  services  aiul  oastoms  of  certain  ' 
nors  in  Nottiogbam : — 

On  the  iiMj  at  the  Gnat  Bidrepe,  vhich  ma  eallad 
Prior'i  Boon,  every  matire  <raa  to  Bnd  three  voA- 
I,  and  (eveiy)  cottuer  one." — AiUieat  Toitint,  edit. 
on7S4,p.362. 

Soon  services  were  the  same  with  those  per- 
formed under  the  names  of  bidnpe  and  precaria, 
which  last  is  cimply  the  Latin  ibrm  of  bidrep; 
which  b  snpposea  to  be  derived  from  btddtm 
above-mentioned,  and  repe,  to  lip  or  cut  com. 
Hence,  a  reaping  on  a  certain  day,  on  the  pravet 
or  entreaty  dv  the  lord  or  his  steward,  of  nis 
servile  dependenta — of  thooe  who  owed  him 
customary  services — wm  called  bidr^x.  Them 
assembly  days  were  called  bmd-i»je,  i.  e.  biddan 
days, — those  on  which  the  castomaiy  tenanta 


314 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


[i^S-TII.  J 


1.8,71. 


attended  ad  prtttt  dwtmi.  (Kennet'a  Olottary, 
v."Bidrep8"and"Prec«rift";  Blouot'e  Tmwm, 
pp.  226,  260,  264,  365,  2GS,  S64;  and  the  same 
aatbor'B  Lam  Sietiimaiy,  v.  "  Bidwpa.") 

ESPED&BB. 

"SoEUTi"  nr  PiBiBH  Bkqisizbs  (3^*  S.  iii. 
61, 161, 198, 236.)— In  a  MS,  called  the  SUmelej 
Ledger,  written  tmnp.  Richaid  II.  (1392),  p.  6, 
ad j!ii.,we  find:  "QuiBobertos  genuit  de  Anota 
Boluta  piedictum  Willelmua  Baetard."  Doea  not 
the  word  here  clearl j  mean  ^gle  woman  ? 

E.  IL  Knowlk. 

Kudlmrtb. 

The  Nile  mit  thb  Bulb  (i<^  8.  tu.  186.)  — 
I  waa  always  ondei  the  impreaaion  that  the  psa- 
BBge  Ecclea.  zi.  1,  "  Caat  thy  bread  up<Hi  the 
waters :  for  thou  ahalt  find  it  after  many  daya," 
had  ita  oiigia  in  the  coatom  of  the  Egyptiaua  of 
casting  seed  on  the  waters  of  the  Nile  when  they 
overflowed  the  neighbouring  lands,  which  nnking 
in  the  stili  poola  that  OTerflowed  the  fields,  was 
covered  with  a  rich  allnvial  deposit  when  the 
waters  receded,  and  Bobsequently  sprung  up  under 
the  influence  of  the  aon.  The  passage  in  the  LXX 
is  worth  noting:  — 

'Airoml^Bv  rtr  ifrtr  irav  M  tpimmr  raS  tSmrat, 
Sti  tr  w\i9u  liiapmr  lifi'inu  atrrir.  (Compare  Herod. 
Euterpe,  xir.) 

Ot  otn-i  ifirfif  iraf^riyi'irm  aSKaiaa,  lx«ivi  wim/ij 
sffrt  »aAXan-tf,  sCri  li^Xa  Ifr/^iiiim  aitir  riw  iXXai 
iutpunBi  irip)  Kifw  iroioiia't '  IXX'  twiir  e^  i  rartiAt 
tttnitA«Toi  fnAMw  ifeii  fit  ItptSpaj,  Spni  >t  inAiIn) 
iwiffv,  ^6tw  ifwtipat  fuxtfToi  T^r  tmnov  Apovpaff  ir.T.A. 

On  reTening  to  Sehnlti,  Sehoiia  n  Vetut  Ttda- 
mtntum  coHt&tuila  a  Oaorg.  Lattr.  Bautr,  I  find 
the  coQunon  acceptation  of  the  verse  with  another 
interpretatdon  which  has  some  allusion  to  the  one 
under  consideration  r — 

■"Hitte  puum  tuam  tnai  mare,  nam  pM  moltoa 
dice  reperitt  Qlnm,'  Bme  et  aeqaentta  vd  dt  deemoiTiii* 
dandla,  etc.,  v«l  de  ntione  ftumeotl  ezpUcant.  Qal  pa- 
ncm  9.  bona  ma  ia  aqoai  pnjidt,  amittlt  Ilia.  Sic  de  tola 
faoultatibas  arga  paaparibiu,  qui  rapendare  beaefleia  non 
poasnnt.  Dens  RoanerstoT  aril,  Loc.xiT.t4i  Slracxxix. 
13.  VimdtrPalm.  "  FnnnBnlum  dbtribue,  L  s.  woian- 
tem  fac  Jnxla  aqoai,  Le.  in  locis  fertilioribois  obi  post 
mnltai  diei  Invanlts,  quod  eolligas.'  "  (Tol.  t.  p.  til,} 

The  passa^  la  worthy  of  some  farther  inquiry. 
E.C. 

Cork. 

"  SAIIMH8  m  FnJiTS  am  sovrt  Fatbu  " 
(i'*'  S.  Ti.  324,423.)  — Athenteus  says  that  at 
Athens  Cecrops  was  the  first  peison  who  married 
a  man  to  one  wife  only,  for  before  his  time  men 
had  their  wives  in  common ;  on  which  account  it 
waa,  aa  some  people  state,  he  was  called  Jifvi)).  aA 

(ol  fSB(i  nvi  ai^4i  ivtitfMnu,  out  tiUrur  tS«  rpi- 
Ttpor  hi  ri  ■'XqSoi  Tic  nrba. — Deipnomiph,  ZliL  2. 

C.P.L 


Stobt  ucbibbd  to  Tbbodobb  Hook  (4**  S. 
TiL  73, 196.)— This,  I  think,  must  be  older  tbaa 
the  time  of  Hook.  I  met  with  the  following 
American  Tersion  of  the  stofy  about  half  a  cen- 
tury ago ; — 

"As  twadirjaes.  tbdr  ambling  steads  bestriding. 
In  menj  mood  o'sr  Boston  neck  mce  riding. 
Sadden  s  simpls  strnctDTs  dkC  tbur  sight. 
From  vbleh  the  eonrlct  takes  bis  bempen  flight  j 
Where  istlor-liks  ha  tdds  adieu  to  bope. 
His  sli  depending  on  a  single  rope. 
'  Ssy,  brouier,'  cned  ths  ons, '  prsy,  irhon  were  yoo. 
Had  yoodergiliDin  bMnsllond  lU  due  ?  ' 
<  Whsie?  ■  cried  the  otber,  In  aucastic  tone, 
'  Whj',  wliere  bnt  riding  into  toim  slooe.' " 

TJkbsa. 
PbiUdelpbis. 

Sttlto  =  Cbutghss  {3"  S.  vii,  478  ;  ■viiL  178, 
239,  278j  V^  S.  vil  24S.)— The  accounts  of  the 
overseers  of  the  poor  for  the  parish  of  Leverton 
near  Boston,  i.D,  1669,  conUin  the  following. 
The  Christian  name  has  ;been  left  blank  bv  the 
writer : — "  Given  to  ,  ....  .  Thompson  w'tn  one 
stilte,  TJ"."  {AreKaclogia,  xli.  369.) 

Edwabd  Pxaoock. 
Bottestord  Bfaoor,  Brigg. 

EiBoaitPAiTB  (4"  S.  T.  696 ;  vi.  103,  206,  Sdi ; 
TiL243.)--Ofthuplant,2r«JeiiMm,AKAi,  orfiMld 
camfima,  all  the  old  herbals  apeak  in  high  terms 
of  commendation.  In  Germany  a  wine  made  of 
it  ia  in  great  eateem.  It  was  accounted  warm, 
opening,  deteraive,  and  efficacious  in  diaeaaes  of 
the  lungs.  Dr.  HiU  even  says  that  hardly  any 
plant  has  more  virtues,  but  that  its  greatest 
virtue  is  in  curing  coughs.  An  infusion  of  the 
&esh  root  with  honey  waa  found  very  successful 
in  hooping-cough.  For  these  purposes  it  waa  also 
made  into  candy,  and  so  giadiully  became  a  mere 
sweet  thing  £nr  children.  So  tiiat  now  its  medi- 
cal  virtues  are  forgotten,  and  it  is  sold  merely  as 
a  candy  in  confectioners'  shope,  with  no  more  of 
the  plant  in  it  than  tliere  is  of  barley  in  what  ia 
now  sold  as  barley-sugar. 

The  virtue  of  elecampane  waa  celebrated  bi  an 
old  distich : — 

"  EnoU  campsn*  reddit  pnmordia  aana." 
The  German  name  \»  AlaHtvnat^.  InanoldOer- 
man  herbal  of  1689  it  is  proclaimed  good  agunst 
the  plague  and  i«stilential  diseases.  The  author 
seelra  to  identify  it  with  the  herb  moly.  He  sa^ 
that  many  valuable  medidnes  may  be  prepared 
with  elecampane,  and  principally  for  asthma,  bard 
breathing,  and  dry  cough,  for  which  he  diiveU 
the  composition  of  an  electuary ;  and  adds  in  ti« 
quaint  old  German : — 

"Dices  Latwerga  aortlieilet  die  groben  Flegns  "f 
macht  Idcbt  sussirerOen.  Heilet  also  genUUet  imn<^ 
Oeschwer  do-  Longeo,  u,  a  v." 

further  recommends  it  to  be  candied  libs 
»,  and  eaten  morning  and  evening  for  aiv* 


♦^avU.  Ai-Rn.8,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


matical  complwoto.  He  ytry  amunng'ly  lella  bu 
readen  that  it  hu  louff  been  ciutomir;  in  Swit- 
^Und,  Sualna,  and  Bavuia  to  keep  »  pece  of 
eleeampsne-root  in  the  moutfa  in  tbe  moniiiig 
faaUng,  and  that  the  wune  is  cuatom&ry  on  the 
SJune  and  other  waters,  against  poisonous  exhala- 
tions and  bad  air.  He  has  serersl  more  medical 
Tuea  for  elecampane,  but  all  these  old  real  or  aup- 
pooed  Tirtnes  are  now  forgotten ;  and  -we  maj  be 
content  mth  Dr.  Thornton's  brief  summing  vp  in 
his  Serial: — 

"  Tbenrat »  ateemsd  agood  pectoral,  and,  like  inj^i:*' 
root,  ia  candied  g  aod  thaM  have  become  now  ■  nreetmut 
for  children." 

F.  C.  H.  a  Murithian. 

Hub  obowittg  aitis  Death  (4'"  S.  ri.  624; 
Tii.  66,  63. 130,  22S,  290.) — I  meant  no  disrespect 
to  "  The  Old  Gentleman  at  Turrey,"  when  I  de- 
wgnated  him  by  that  title  in  my  paper  of  Feb- 
mnrj  11.  I  merely  repeated  the  expression  made 
use  of  by  his  friend  Wb,  Pickpord.  The  retort 
of  "young  gentleman"  provokes  a  smile  from  one 
-who,  thtrtf  years  ago,  was  already  teaching 
anatomy.  What  it  was  ijiat  the  (not  old)  gentle- 
man saw  in  the  tomb  of  Lady  Mordaunt,  whe- 
ther it  was  really  biuuBD  hair  or  not,  and,  if  bur, 
bow  it  had  come  there,  I  cannot  say ;  but  that  it 
-was  hair  which  had  grown  from  a  dead  bod;  is 
simply  impossible. 

I  suppose  that  to  a  person  ignorant  of  physio- 
I(wy,  and  of  the  laws  which  goTem  the  formation 
of  animal  tissues,  all  Tital  phtenomena  'PPeu' 
equally  probable,  or  equally  improbable.  There 
can  be  no  etandard  of  probability.  A  hair  ban 
no  life  in  itself;  it  is  a  mere  secretion,  formed 
within  n/oliiele,  or  little  bag,  in  the  skin  from  the 
blood  which  19  carried  to  it.  The  hur  erowe  by 
the  addition  of  its  root  of  fresh  material,  which 
gradually  pushes  auwtirds  the  hard  dry  portion 
aboTS  the  skin,  and  so  increases  its  length.  But 
once  let  the  comiection  between  the  hair  and  the 
bloodvessels  at  its  root  be  severed,  or  let  the 
animnl  die,  and  these  vessels  twrish — the  hsir 
becomes  as  dead,  and  as  incapable  of  any  farther 
growth,  as  apiece  of  wire.  If  hurs  bad  inde- 
pendent powers  of  growth,  wigs  would  grow. 

Does  It  not  occur  to  the  gentleman  at  Turvey 
that  if  hur  continued  to  grow  after  death,  every 
coffinwould  exhibit  an  instance  such  as  he  believes 
occurred  in  that  of  Lady  MordauntP  And  what  a 
display  the  Egyptian  mummies  ought  to  make  I 
'They  safe  surely  bad  time  enough  to  develope  a 
chtMiure. 

Let  me  in  all  serionenes*  recommend  your  cor- 
respondenta  who  have  hitherto  believed  in  the 
poit-mortem  growth  of  hair,  to  refer  to  some  ele- 
mentary book  on  physiology,  and  leam  how  hair 
is  formed.  If  they  can  get  some  friend  vrith  a 
micnMCope  to  show  them  an  injected  hjdr-foUide, 
so  much  the  better.  3,  Dixov. 


Hbahuts  ot  "  NACCASon "  (4*  S.  viL  286.) 
In  reply  to  £.  H.  EirowLSS,  naeootmt  ia  the  name 
of  a  colour  of  a  crimson  hue,  nmilar  to  that  of  the 
robe  of  tbe  Order  of  the  Bath,  or  more  property 
the  reddish  hne  of  the  mother-o'-pearl  ahelL  It 
is  derived  &om  the  Spaniali  naear,  the  lustre  of 
motbeivo'-pearl,  or  the  French  naere,  which  means 
the  shell  as  well  as  the  pearly  lustre  of  it  There 
are  equivalent  words  m  the  Arabic,  from  which 
the  Spanish  may  possibly  have  derived  their 
word ;  they  wre,  noigru  and  noogm.  An  Arabic 
scholar  may  contend  these  to  be  anonymous;  if 
so,  I  am  perfectly  agreeable. 

The  word  in  English  I  have  seen  spelt  nae- 
harmt!  the  affix,  as  most  would  know,  is  the 
Latin  -ntM  "  belon^mg  to. 

Allied  to  naecanut  is  naearat,  which  means  a 
fine  linen  fabric,  dyed  fugitively  of  a  pale  red 
colour,  which  ladies  used  to  rub  upon  their  faces 
to  give  them  a  delicate  roseate  hoe.  We  have 
also  naereoui,  applied  to  a  sui&ca  which  reflects 
iridescent  light  J,  J. 

VOTES  ON  BOOKS,  Bia 


Ltcturtr  H  Bhtloric  at  Oxford,  bg  Thawuu  Staritu, 
Qlapbdn  to  Iht  Kag.  Kdoid,  miOi  Frtfact,  Noto,  and 
Cboory,  by  S,  VL  Cowpcr.  (£iTly  EngUah  Text 
Society.) 


't  jVbf'B  Soperaone  Lorde 
■),_16t4).     A^Sumlicaf 


WUA  a  Si^plycadim  .. 

Kyuga  BtnTj  lAa  Eighth  (A.: 

of  Un  Poon  Comnma  (A.n.  IHeV.  Tht  btcayt  of 
Bnglatui  bu  tie  grttt  mJlitudi  of  Sbtpt  (a.d.  15S0). 
E.fitarfiyJ.M.Cowper.  (Early  Engliih  Text  Socle ly.) 
If  the  study  of  our  early  language,  iu  hislory  and 
monnmeiitB,  does  not  become  general,  it  will  not  be  from 
any  lack  of  xeal  and  Intelligence  on  the  part  of  many 
omineat  acbolara  who  devote  their  lime  and  knowledge 
to  tbe  editing  of  the  publiutiona  of  the  Early  English 
Text  Society.  Itia  llltle  more  than  a  month  since  we 
noted  the  appearance  of  ^(iKpAD/*^n'malA«i  and  Alfred"! 
Wat  Saxon  Vtrtion  nf  drtgnri/'i  Paitorat  Cart — the 
fint  two  books  issued  by  the  Society  la  retnni  fbr  the 
prCMBt  year's  subscription;  and  now  we  have  to  call 
altentlon  to  two  more  volumes  of  the  extra  acriea.  Of 
the  fiiBt  of  these,  "Tbe  Diilogne  between  Pole  and 
Lopset,"  the  editor  (who  considen  It  hardly  of  less 
inurest  and  leas  importance  than  More's  Utopia) 
says:  "Ita  unlmpaBsioned  atalnoents  respecting  men, 
its  jnd^llka  soggeatlons  for  impravement,  its  keen  ap- 
predation  of  what  would  profit  the  connlry — and  make 
men  wiser,  happier,  and  better— ^ve  it  a  rains  which 
few  works  of  the  time  poawm."  Mr.  Cowper  has  done 
his  duty  as  an  editor  verysatiabcloiily.md  the  abstract, 
in  which  he  gives  in  modem  English  the  most  interest- 
ing points  of  the  book,  will  prove  of  great  ns*  to  tbe 
Sueial  reader  i  who  wUl  look  very  anziooaly  for  Pro- 
■OT  Brewer'a  promised  Introdaction  to  it  The  four 
tracts,  whieh  form  the  second  of  theae  volnmo^  well  de> 
aerve  the  attention  of  all  who  wonld  know  the  real  itate  I 
ofUuconntiyat  the  period  of  the  Beformatloa.  ,'' 


316 


NOTES  AUD  QUERIES. 


t*»S.Tn.  Aran,  8;  71. 


Patigr^hie^  DialiiKuay    atd   Grammar.      By   AntOD 
Bubmaier,  Fntidant  of  the  FailgnptuMl  aodtty  of 
Hmuch. 
Patigraphiieia    WSrltrbtuA   nm    GabmcAi    /Sir   die 

UaOnAe  Spraeht.  VtrfaiMl  Dsa  Anloa  Baohnuier. 
Jyietiaiaain  Piuigreplngiu,  prioidi  di  ta  Gramaairt. 
lUdigi  par  Antoiae  Bachnulu.  (TrUbnaT.) 
Some  of  our  readera  may  not  ba  awti«  of  tha  exact 
nature  of  pungnphj :  *;  Paalgrapby,"  aija  the  editor  of 
these  little  vdnmee,  "teaches  people  to  oommDnicata 
with  ODS  aaother  ia  Trriting  bj  nmna  of  Dumberg, 
irhidi  convey  the  aune  ideal  in  all  langnagea,  Ibos  it 
reanltee  people  whooi  lui^ij^sa  sepante."  Althoogfa 
this  eyBtem  cannot  poweaa. all  Ihe'advaatageB  of  bUd- 
goage,  it  is  a  faitbfiil  iDtarpreter  oF  all  langnagea  that 
accept  it,  as  any  one  will  feel  coavinced  who  will  take 
the  trouble  to  teat  it  by  meana  of  these  three  dictionaries  ) 
and  the  principle  will  apply  as  equally  to  Uiree  hundred 
a*  tolhnelaaRDage9,proTideddlctionari«bepieuredfor 
tbe  porpoae  The  utility  of  snch  a  Byalem  is  BTidenl,  and 
no  Ibu  bo  the  ingenuity  with  which  M.  Bachmaier  haa 
OTercome  its  diScultiee.  Tbe  conosptioos  commonioable 
aie  1,334  ;  and  when  it  is  remembered  how  feir  are  tlie 
words  in  ordinarr  ase,  it  will  be  seen  what  great  pro- 
gren  it.  Bachmaier  has  made  in  solving  the  problem  of 
an  UDiTersal  language,  or,  at  a))  sTenti,  an  universal 
meaos  of  intercommunication  for  ordinary  purposes  be- 
tween all  nations  and  iangoagea. 

TTu  Sinldm  ofBabd.    By  DonUnick  H<Cauilanil,  Q.C^ 
D.Gi,  &e.    (BanUoy.) 

This  ia  a  book  which  may  saAly  be  recommended  to 
thoae  who  are  honestly  and  earnestly  seeking  fcr  the 
harmony  that  mast  eiet  between  the  well-ascertained 
facta  of  fldenoe  and  the  rightly  nnderslood  words  of 
revelation.  Mi.  M'Caaaland,  in  the  conviction  that  ptB- 
historic  archieoloKv,  like  every  other  adence,  only  aenrea 
to  set  the  seal  of  truth  on  the  aacred  record,  in  tbe 
■volume  before  us  Iwiogs  the  rmwnl  disooveriea  which  this 
new  science  has  won  for  histoiy  to  bear  in  bridging  over 
the  misty  gulf  whicb  has  hitherto  intarvened  between  the 
history  of  the  Hamelie  and  Japhetic  branches  of  tbe 
n«at  boman  family  in  tbe  Book  of  GeDCeia,  and  the 
Oreclan  £rs. 

AnuKucsBCU  «f  Fifty  Tear:  By  Mark  Boyd.  (Long- 
When  an  intelligent  man  who  has  passed  flfl;  years  of 
a  busy  life,  which  has  brought  bira  in  contact  with  men 
high  in  both  aerrices,  active  paliticians,  and  intelligent 
men  of  business,  aita  down  to  write  his  reuiniscenees,  he 
can  hardly  fail  lo  record  a  good  deal  which  is  amusing, 
and  a  good  deal  which,  if  not  amusing,  b  worth  know- 
ing. Such  is  Mr.  Boyd's  book ;  which,  thou^sh  certainly 
not  equal  to  Dean  Bamsay's.  which  soggeatod  it,  oontaios 
some  very  ioteresling  aDecdotea;  while  in  many  cases. 
If  the  anecdotes  are  not  very  remarkable,  they  derive 
interest  and  valae  from  the  remarkable  man  of  whom 
they  are  related. 

Books  itECEivn>.~PD}wfar  TaMet  by  CKurks  lU.  WU- 

"'    "       "     '■■■         ■-  ■  ■    " "     ■ott.Bar- 

id  utility 


lerally 


nik  edition,  I 


isTahlee,  Sec.  have 


Looiaa  to  Lord  Lome  natnrally  laada  nuny  to  iaqniia 

Emlltdpt'i  mtatrated  NtOaral  Bietory.  By  tiie  Rev. 
1.  G.  Wood,  MA,.  F,L,S.  Pari  I.  (Roatledge.)  There 
can  be  little  doubt  that  tbia  new  Issue  of  Hr.  Wood's 

Eleasantly  written  and  besntifully  lllnstrated  Natnral 
[istory  will  ahare  the  popalarity  whidi  so  deSBrvdly 
attended  the  original  e^ttion. 

Tbe  cooclnsian  of  Lord  Dalling's  Btograpbr  and 
Letters  of  Lord  Palmenton,  will,  it  ii         •  - 

paar  in  the  coorae  of  tha  present  year. 

Beport  speaka  very  fcvonrably  of  the  approaebag 
Exhitdtion  of  tha  Royal  Academy,  which,  it  is  said,  wdl 
contain  a  conaiderable  nomber  of  works  by  eminent 
French  artista. 

Wx  ate  leqaasted  to  (lata  that  the  title,  "  Won— «ot 
Wooed,"  which  deiugnates  a  "  serial "  novel,  commenced 
in  CKuK&en'a  ^«nuf  on  November  29, 1870,  was  notified 
in  connection  with  a  "  drama  in  fire  acts,  and  in  reiser" 
in  Tht  AlAeimam  of  October  30. 1869— havlog  originated 
with  the  writer  of  the  play  referred  to. 

The  Bjotu.  AlbKKT  Ha.1.1.— This  stracture  oeopiaa 
about  one  qnarter  of  tbe  area  of  the  Coloaseam,  and  is 
much  less  elliptical  than  that  building,  bei at;  lees  than 
half  the  length,  and  a  little  more  than  half  the  breadth. 
The  external  dimensions  of  the  ball  an  37!  a^cainat  £84, 
and  2S3  agunn  166. 


BOOKS   AND   ODD   VOLUMES 

)  PtTBCHASE. 

of  UuMlgvIivBi 


^fftttef  to  CamtfanUtnU. 
M.  P.  C.  (Hokitika,  Hew  Zealand.)— n>  fiiM*— 
"A  temple  to  Mendship,"  Ac, 
an  (w  Moort,  and  icin  be  finnd  at  p.  145  of  the  l-ow- 

tdiHoH  of  kit  Poems  (ediL  1B69.) 

M,  E.  B.—Tht  banmit  rtftmd  towatmot  auabled  «  » 
phyMidan,  but  tuccetded  Ait /atttr-in-lur  inula-  a  V"^ 
lijiatathx  in  the  paUnt.  We  beliax  tliat  then  tzitti  M>n 
than  one  itulance  of  a  nobleman  pracfiting  at  a  phynctan, 

••NataoMr  poetit,finiMtoratoTet,"  It  the  taying  of  Cicero, 
vAicA  u  gtneri^y  aiajmltd  at  "Poeta  natatvr,  KMfi-  _ 

T.  S.  ji  right.  The  coupiet  "  Immodell  mordl,"  S*t  ** 
from  Boiammon'i  Eaiay  on  Translation. 

T.  A.  H QmeriM  abomt  Ren.  J.  Itacgam.     ^If 


40  s.  TIL  Apwi.  18,71.1  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


317 


LOXDOK,  BATURDAT,  iPBIl  13,  ISTl. 


CONTENTS,— H«  172. 

NOTES :  —  Bpennr,  the  Port  of  Irelsnd,  SIT  —  Pendlw ; 
Baanebuap,  SI8  —  "Pmlnolil  RbineUriiUn,"  lie  — 
Poe(i7  of  tbe  Cloudi, /A.— AanUiar  Old  Jenkim  —  Snr- 
jtuDm  in  DomwllT  Book  —  SijmboBrdi  —  Baron  Lie- 
bfg^  TnMmonT  to  the  nlvifale  Scrvioei  of  disttnpilihed 
Fremh  Scdeatifle  and  Lttenrr  Men  --  John  K«mpe. 
Archbishop  of  CsntertHirT  —  The  Libnriea  and  Utueams 
of  Paris  —  Aa  Old  OifOrd  EiriEraoi,  320. 

QUBBIES;  —  Anutola.  FiTonHts  VIA-  of  Akbar.  Sn  — 

-  Anima  CbriiU  "  —  HadeinolKDe  AurrttI— Old  Ballad— 
"  BrtdnorEnderbr"— Remarkable  Clock— "Coutumisr 
of  theOrder  of  the  Visitstion  of  the  Ble«ed  Vl^n  Marj  " 

—  aGfqi  Qa«T— CI««  Gennin  Flag  —  Gone  —  Holcoa 
Unitus  — friib  HMi«_of  _Co!n[DOna' Csl-      '-*-  " 

Hng^edi; 

i"  Laoriger  Horatlui "  -  atyring  Pamtlj  —  Blenihold 


Jiti  ~  John  Kencr 

jieoj'^  —  *' La  Belle  Pame  RanaHorci"  —  PoEtrait 

P*lDtln;~l(MllKR*l  Se*l_niDTid  in  the  Iileof  Etj.ftC" 


—  Bowg  and  Cart- 


, Bon-dtal  Qae 

UmbiroTe  —  French  WesTavi...    „ 

■Wordi :  "  Wink  "  or  "  Blink  "  1 322. 
REPLIES!  -Old  Sandcwn  C«tlf,  Isle  of  Wight,  SW- 
Trapp'e  -Virgil,"/*.  — Chignons,  3M  —  "B«roD"Kichol- 
aon.  sn  —  Who  la  a  Laird !  ^S  —  Lord  Broughtni  and  Hn. 
Nigbtiugal--  "—■■      ■■ "-'-'     " -■  ■ — ' 

The  Bkic^  Books  —  ihtronjinli:  PreTioe 

acftbad  CbuioM  —  Bheerwort  -  "  Tliough  loat  to  Biiht, 

to  Memar;  dear  "— On  the  Title  or  King  or  Queen  of  Han 

—  De  S<ve  or  Bi;  —  Hanipden  Family  —  Guliot  and  Oidse 

—  TreTeri("'Grete  HertwU  — The  Plant  Ungu*  Anterii 

—  Cborchei  urithin  Koman  Campa  —  Lioea  oo  the  Buman 
Ear  —  BallUl  of  Lad  j  Ferran,  Ac,  S3(l. 

Ila««  on  Booti.  An. 


9atti. 

SPEN8EB,  THE  POET  OF  lEELAKD. 
Ko.  ni. 
It  mtn  be  «  mere  fiuicj  of  mine,  but  I  IiRTe 
always  felt  iocUoed  to  regiird  Spenser  as  being 
the  real  poet  of  Ireland,  for  it  it  onlj  in  his  poetry 
that  we  meet  with  Irish  scenery  and  Irish  man- 
nets.  Aa  he  spent  the  early  part  of  his  life  mostly 
in  Ixndon,  and  in  reality  knew  very  little  of  any 
part  of  EnglflDd  but  Kent,  he  naturally  deacribed 
what  fell  under  his  eyee  in  Ireland,  with  whose 
people  and  scenery  he  seems  to  have  been  well 
acqoainted.  Of  thia  I  find  the  following  proofs : — 
When  he  would  describe  the  force  oi  the  tide 
runnioi;;  up  a  river  (iv.  3,  27),  it  is  the  Shannon, 
in  which  be  bad  seen  it,  and  not  the  Thames  or 
Severn,  in  which  he  had  not  seen  it,  that  he  in- 
troduces; when  the  coliirion  of  two  adverse  bil- 
lows (iv.  1, 43),  it  is  in  the  "  Irish  Sounds  "  that 
it  occurs ;  when  he  in  a  simile  (ii.  9, 16)  describes 
a  cloud  of  gnats,  it  is  "  out  of  the  fens  of  Allan," 
a  hoc  in  the  coun^  of  Cork,  that  Ihey  rise.  The 
eimile  of  the  south  wind  dispelling  the  mist 
{iii.  4,  13)  is  evidently  taken  from  what  the  poet 
mnat  often  have  witnessed  at  Kilcolman,  Nature 
holds  her  conrt  (rii.  6)  on  the  hill  of  Aelo  in  tbe 
same  county,  the  change  of  which  bill  is  the  sub- 
ject of  a  pleasing  mvtnologic  legend;  and  in  his 
CWi'n  Cloitt'i  come  Soma  again,  he  relates  the 
loves  of  the  two  n«ig^bonring  streams,  ike  MuUa 


and  the  Br^iog — a  l^end  perhaps  c<mcerted  be- 
tween the  poet  and  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  what  tbe 
latter  visited  him  at  Sitoolman.  I  finally  think 
that  it  was  the  Lakes  of  KiUarney,  which  he 
must  have  visited,  that  made  him  place  the  boww 
of  Acmsia  in  a  lake,  and  not  in  the  sea  like  the 
palaces  of  Alcina  and  Armida. 

In  various  parts  of  the  poem  we  aaem  to  meet 
witii  the  abodes,  tbe  manners,  and  the  habits  of 
the  nide  and  barbarons  Irish.  We  may  instance 
the  cottage  and  the  occupation  of  Corcteca  and 
her  daughter  (i.  8,  10  »eg.)j  the  Witch's  abode 
(iii.7,C),  BndtbatofSclaunderandberownpwson; 
and  the  ford  where  the  "fosters"  way]^  Timias 
(iii.  6,  17).     Perhapa  even  the  abode  of  Bel- 

Shcebe  and  her  nymphs  (iii.  6,  39)  may  have  bad 
a  proto^pe  in  the  woods  of  Munater. 

When  we  read  the  description  of  the  "com- 
mune hall "  in  the  Palace  of  Pride  (i.  6,  3),  with 
its  minstrels,  its  bards,  and  its  chroniclers,  we  are 
reminded  at  once  of  the  abode  of  an  Irish  chie^ 
or  even  the  castle  of  an  Anglo-Irish  lord :  for  in 
such  the  poet  must  often  have  been  a  guest.  He 
surely  must  have  been  more  than  once  at  that  of 
Kilkenny.  We  may  observe  that  while  in  the 
Orlando  tbe  knights  frequently  stop  at  inns, 
nothing  of  the  kind  occurs  in  The  Faerie  Qiieme, 
where  at  nightfall  tbey  atwaya  repair  to  castles  or 
other  private  dwellings,  how  in  tbe  View,i(c., 
we  are  told  more  than  once  that  "there  be  no 
limes"  where  "lodging  or  horse  meat  or  man's 
meat"  were  to  be  had.  And  such,  I  bare  reason 
to  think,  was  the  case  in  remote  parts  of  Kerry 
even  within  the  present  century,  when  tbe  travel- 
ler or  tourist  was  always  a  welcome  guest  in 
private  bouses.* 

But  it  may  be  SMd— Is  not  Mooio  tbe  poet 
of  Ireland  P  Just  as  much,  in  my  opinion,  aa 
Byron  ia  the  poet  of  Israel  Moore— though,  I 
believe,  of  Celijc  origin— in  reality  knew  little  of 
Ireland.  He  was  horn  and  reared  in  I>ublin,t 
and  therefore  never  mingled  with  the  peasan- 
try, who  must  be  known  if  we  would  know 
the  Irish  character.  He  bad,  I  think,  little  or  no 
taste  for  natural  scenery;  and  hence  his  IriA 
Melodic!  do  not  contain  a  single  description  of 
Irish  scenery  or  a  trait  of  Irish  manners.     Ho 


■  Id  1B13  oae  of  the  gnldee  it  EilUmsy  piopMed  to 
me  to  make  a  pedestrian  tour  through  the  maantaina  of 
Kerrr.  ■•  But,"  Mid  I,  "there  are  no  inns."  "Oh,  never 
mind  that,"  eaid  he  j  "  for  every  day  I  will  brine  you  to 
the  honte  of  aome  gentleman  or  other,  who  will  be  right 
glad  to  give  ron  yonr  dinner,  bed,  and  breakfast  next 
morning  for  tie  pleasure  of  yonr  company." 

t  Many  many  years  ago,  when  I  waa  a  very  yoaag 
student  in  Trinity  Colltge,  Dnlilin,  I  chanced  to  become 
acquainted  with  the  eaccessor  of  Moore'a  father  iu  the 
grocer's  shop  in  Aun^er  Street,  and  I  remember  ipend- 
infcau  evening  drinkmetea,  {daring  cards,  and  eating 
ovetets  in  the  little  pariour  behind  the  shop,  in  *hi<£ 
tbe  poet  must  oHen  have  sat  compoaiiiK  bis  early  versea. 
But  I  was  not  then  aware  of  It. 


318 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[•^B-TU.  A 


1.15,71. 


merely  took  some  nunes  of  persoiiii  and  some 
fabulous  legends  from  lbs  so-called  histories  of 
Keating  and  O'Hallonm,  and  when  these  legends 
were  really  benutifal,  be  spoiled  them  ij  his 
light  trifling  mode  of  nanftting  them.  Premiung 
that,  in  mr  opinion,  the  finest  Terses  ever  pro- 
duced in  foland  are  Wolfe's  on  "  The  Burii  of 
Sir  John  Moore,"  I  would  My,  though  man^  of 
the  Jlf<WiM  are  pleasing  and  some  reaJly  shunted, 
that,  sa  a  national  poet,  he  was,  in  my  mind,  far 
inferior  to  Davis — the  Tyitous  of  that  wild 
band  of  hot-beaded  enthnsiasts  led  hj  infatuated 
but  honourable  and  well-meaning  Smith  O'Brien, 
some  twenty  or  flva-and-twenty  Tears  ago,  who 
dreamed  of  soch  an  utter  impoMibilitj  as  liiat  of 
exciting  the  Irish  Romanists  to  rise  in  arms 
against  the  power  of  England.  I  say  so;  for, 
with  all  their  ignorance  and  enthusiasm,  the  Irish 
are  not  absolute  fools,  and  therefore 
lion  in  Ireland  is  juat  aa  probable  an  event  as  one 
in  Wales  or  Cornwall.  Wilt  our  statesmen 
get  rid  of  their  dread  of  this  noia^  uosuhstantial 
bugbear  F  Let  them  do  strict  J  uatice,  and  expect 
no  thanka.  An  imafifinBtiTe  race,  conadous  of 
inferiority,  never  will  be  contented,  hut  will 
always  have  imajpnary  wronga  to  brood  over, 
and  on  which  they  may  display  their  national 
eloquence.  "THoa. 


I.  ElIOHTUX. 


FENDLES:  BEADCHAHP. 

Tlie  first  of  these  names,  spelt  in  various  wajs, 

has,  I  suppose,  always  been  a  puzile  to  English 

CeslogisU.  I  mentioned  it  (iii.  409)  when  I 
something  to  say  about  the  Mortrmer  pedi- 
gree. But,  although  I  am  not  yet  able  to  dedde 
what  the  real  name  is,  I  think  that  Hbbhsh- 
IHrDB  (4"  S.  viL  223)  would  like  to  know  that 
the  probability  still  seems  to  incline  to  its  being 
a  Spanish  name  barbarized  into  its  present  shape. 
There  are  in  existence  two  copies  in  MS.  of  the 
lives  of  the  Berkeleva  by  Smyth  of  Nibley.  One 
is  at  Berkeley  Castle.  I  have  never  wen  that 
MS. :  it  waa  the  one  used  by  Foabrooke  for  his 
JBxtraett  front  Sniylh-g  Zieei  of  t&e  Berkeleyi. 
The  other  is  in  the  possesion  of  Mr.  Berkeley  of 
Spelchley  Park,  Worcesterahire.  By  his  kindness 
I  have  been  allowed  to  have  this  precious  MS.  in 
my  own  bouse.  It  is  a  magarine  of  Gloucester- 
shire history.  At  the  end  of  it  is  tiiis  state- 
ment:— 


family e  of  tl 
yet  l};aeth)  w 


le  BerkelciB  (inclndiDge  ttra  lord  Gmrge  that 
herein  137  jrearea  are  tah«D  np,  viz*  Iroin 

.„ of  the  faigne  of  Kinge  Htmry  the  V[I», 

Anno  1491,  till  the  xvj'^  years  of  the  raigne  of  King 
Janua  of  England  Ice  Anno  1618." 

I  give  these  particulars  that  Hebhektkudb 
and  other  genealogists  may  see  exactly  what  the 
authority  is  to  which  I  am  asking  them  to  assent. 


This  "third  and  last  volume"  is  bound  npwith 
the  two  preceding,  which  g^ve  the  eariy  history 
of  the  &mily.  The  three  volumes  or  parts  now 
form  one  luge  folio.  The  date  1618,  no  donbt, 
gives  the  time  when  Smyth  finished  his  work  at 
the  end  of  the  third  volume  or  turt.  Bat  I  found 
other  dat«a  in  places,  as  1634,  163S,  which  wen, 
I  presume,  insertions  made  by  bim  afterwards. 


At  p.  704,  Smyth  is  showing  how  Qeo_       

Lord  Berkeley  of  that  Christian  name,  the  lord 
who  was  living  when  he  wrote,  could  claim 
several  natdonalilies.    He  says : — 

"  B;  UiTgarvt,  viA  of  Thomaa,  the  thiid  danghbr 
of  Boger  Mortimer,  flnt  Earls  of  March,  soune  of  Edmoad 
Mortimer  Lord  of  Wigmore,  and  of  Maifpvet  tTendlts  his 
irife,  daughter  of  William  de  fieIldle^  a  Swuiianl  C»- 
UD  to  QoMoe  Elleanar,  first  wlft  to  Kinge  Edward  tlu 
flrat." 
And  in  the  dexter  mar^  "  a  Spaniard." 

This  is  a  very  positive  statement,  but  it  is 
worth  listening  to  when  made  by  a  man  such  as 
Smyth  was.  I  have  searched  the  JVo6fea»  del  A»- 
dalixia,  ta  Seviiia,  1688,  but  found  nothing  which 
English  ingenuity  or  blundering  could  have  ie> 
duced  to  Fen  dies. 

However,  a  possible  name  is  given  by  Gibbon 
in  his  "  Introductio  ad  Latinam  Blasoniam  "  in 
the  list  of  "  Vredi  Blasonite."    At  the  end  of.— 

"Sigilla  Comitam  Fleadriie cam  esposidoDS 

historica  Ollvarl  Vredl  IvrbcoDSvIti  BrvR Bni^a 

Pliadnnim  ipud  JoanDem  BapCintem  Eeichovinm  vii 
alti,  eab  sigao  BIbliomm.  Anno  1R3E>," 
is  a  liat  of  arms  collected  b^  Julius  Cbifflet,  son 
of  John  James  ChifBet.  It  is  in  Latin  and  I^Vench. 
I  know  Vrediua's  book  very  well,  but  I  do  not 
possess  it,  and  cannot  here  refer  to  it  Wherever 
it  may  be  thot  the  name  occurs.  Gibbon  gives  it, 
as  I  nave  said,  under  "  Vredi  Blasontm?'  The 
name  is  Fieblbs.     He  gives  the  name  and  arms 

"Fieaie^  Scatum  ari^Dteiim  fdrvo  Leooe  impresnim. 
Arg.  a  Lion  rampant  Sab.  (a  place  givini;  surname  to  a 
Family)." 

This  name  certmnly  brings  us  very  near  t» 
Fendles.  It  is  most  likely  that  in  England  the 
Fienles  could  not  have  existed  long  without 
getting  a  J  inserted.     Where  la  Pienlee  r 

Now  the  Eecuci!  Gfnfaloyimt  de  Faiiiitlet  origi- 
nairet  dfiFout  Bat,  Rotterdam,  1776,  gives  at 
p.  365,  and  eisewherA.  the  name  and  coat  of  De 
Fiennes.  Gilles  de  Fiennea  occurs  at  the  very 
beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century  as  "Cheva- 
lier, Seigneur  de  Renauville,  file  de  Maximilien 
Seigneur  dudit  lieu."  The  arms  on  p.  363  to 
which  p.  366  refers,  are  "  d'aigent  au  lion  de  sable, 
ttmi  et  lampassS  de  gneules.  Thb  is  the  coat 
of  Henles,  as  given  by  Vredius.  It  is  not  th^ 
coat  of  the  ftodent  Non 


uus.    It  IB  not  the 
i-English,(8(i41jFi^C 


*»S.T[I.  ArettlCTl.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Heones,  who  bear  Azure,  three  lions  rampuit  or, 
armed  and  Isngued  g. ;  and  Elias  Beuaner,  part  v. 
p.  8S  of  hifl  Opui  Getuaioffioum  CatKaKcutn,  1693, 

S'.Tea  "  Stirpis  Lucemburgioe  stemma  Mcuodum, 
omitum  Foni  S.  Pavli  ac  Lignii,  Fienaie  Uomi- 
Domm,"  but  no  arms.  D.  P. 

Stawts  Lodge,  Malvtra  Welb. 


"PROVINCIAL  CHAEACTEBISTICS." 
The  abovej'cu  d'upritf  wbicb  appeared  originallj 
in  the  MUetian  Magasme  of  Dr.  John  Brenn'sn  of 
Dublin,  and  which  derived  much  of  its  point  from 
the  fact  (hitherto  unmeotioiied)  that  it  was  impro- 
vised in  a  companv  that  fairlv  represented  the 
literature  and  scholaiahip  of  the  four  Irish  pro* 
vinces,  has  been  leprinled  bj  Mr.  T.  Crofton 
Groker  in  his  'Popular  Songi  of  Ireland,  and  bv 
Mr.  Charles  Qavan  Duffy  in  his  Catkel  o/IiiA 
Jemdt,  with  an  accoi^anTiDf;  hint  that  it  mav 
have  been  written  by  Dr.  Breuaau  himsalf.  Both 
Mr.  T.  C.  Croker  and  Mr.  Charles  Gavan  Dufly 
are  entirely  wrong  in  this  conjecture,  the  pim- 
gent  bagatelle  in  question  haTinc  been  aztem- 
porised  by  my  father,  a  naval  brother  Medico  and 
liiend  of  the  Doctor's,  who,  many  years  ago,  gave 
roe  the  original,  from  which  1  mMe  the  accom- 


dedded  mistake  in  quoting  the  humorous  Irish 
Bong  — 

"  I'm  kin  to  the  CalliKhans,  Bnllagbins, 
Nowlana  and  Dowlings  likewiM," — 
as  if  it  formed  part  of  a  totallr  different  song, 
called  "  I  was  the  boy  for  bewitching  them." 

He  is  atao,  I  think,  wron^  in  eipl^ning  the 
Tulgar  Anglo-Iriah  curse,  "Bad  ceu  to  yon"  by 
"Heavy  taxation  to  you"  (I!) — an  Irish  curse, 
no  doubt,  but  I  think  interpreted  vrith  "  bad  «uc- 
cet*  "  by  Mr.  Croker. 


(In  the  third  line  Crofton  and  Dalfy  hava  "mUt-iU," 
erroneously  for  "misaed  all."] 
"  A  Connanght  man 
Qeta  all  that  he  cui, 
Hla  impudenca  nevar  bu  miaaeil  all ; 


Is  dvil  by  plan. 
Again  and  again  ba'll  entreat  yon  ; 
Thongh  you  ton  tirnea  refuse. 


Eirer  meana  to  trepan, 

Ue  tralchaa  yotir  eye  and  opioian  ; 

Hell  ne'er  diMgree, 

TiU  his  intenat  it  be. 

And  InMloiea  marks  bl«  docninioiL 


"  A.  Leinaler  man 

Is  with  all  cap  and  can; 
He  calls  t'other  provincea  knaves ; 

Yet  each  of  them  see, 

When  be  slarta  with  tbe  three. 
Hat  hii  diatance  he  frequently  saves." 


"ConnadnDatusqiuepauitcanctalacratar; 
Nee  semper,  aadax,  fallltur  omne  petens ; 
Baros  adolator,  Lacchans  plemrnqne  ferocit; 
Armaqne  m^niloqaena  pranpiantqDe  crepat. 
"  Mononin  natus  civilis  compositoque 
Uitanna  rogital,  sepe  eubinde  rogati 
Si  decles  n^tai,  quod  volt  proseqnitar  ardea* ; 
£z  decies  novjea  fallere  qaemqne  parat. 
"  Ultontn  nalus  deceplor  aemper  ocellls 
Inbiat  *t  meDti,  calliitas  advigilans  ; 
Xi  saa  res  agitur  nonquam  disHBtJt  amleo  ; 
Spiritus  iasultana  imperiamqne  notat. 
"  Laf;enia  natus  calices  et  pocnla  partit, 
Atqne  alios  neqnatn  furdreronqae  vocst ; 
Alt  ubi  coDtendit  triplex  proTinda  enian, — 
QiUBque  libi  videat, — ocoupat  ilia  locnm." 

TnoMAs  Stanlet  Teicet,  A.B., 

Es-Scbolar  Trin.  Coll,  Dublin. 
Limerick. 


POETRY  OP  THE  CLOCDS, 

De  Quincey,  in  his  essay  on  Wordsworth's 
poetry,  says,  "it  is  lingular  that  the  gorgeous 
phenomena  of  cloud  scenery  have  been  so  little 
Boticed  by  poets."  He  considers  Wordsworth  to 
be  the  only  poet  who  hss  satdsfactoriW  observed 
the  beauty  of  clouds  and  their  vreird  fantastic 
shapes ;  and  be  natarally  selects  this  point  for  his 
eloquent  admiration,  tiaturally  I  say,  for  who  is 
BO  fond  of  building  "  castles  in  the  aii "  as  De 
Quincey  P 

With  his  usual  dinilay  of  pyrotechnic  rhetoric 
he  daisies  tbe  reader  into  the  Delief  that  the  two 
or  three  passages  which  he  "  devolvit  ore  pro- 
fundo  "  contain  the  only  known  allusions  to  these 
"  vapoury  appearances.  This  statement,  support- 
ing the  theory  that  the  ancient  poets  wei«  msen- 
niUe  to  naturol  beauty,  J  am  anxious  to  disprove. 
The  follovrinff  are  a  few  quotations,  which  I 
should  be  glad  to  see  largely  supplemented. 

In  Theocritus  (xxv.  88)  there  is  a  passage 
similar  to  that  quoted  by  De  Quincey,  in  which  a 
flock  of  sheep  ia  compared  with  "  ramy  clouds." 

Secondly,  in  tbe  "Clouds"  of  Aristophanes 
there  are  many  allusions,  and  especially  in  one 
passage  (Nvbu,  346-348)  where  clouds  are  likened 
to  a  panther,  a  wolf,  a  centaur,  a  bull,  a  stag,  and 
a  woman, 

Agun,  Lucretiua,  treating  of  emaaations  (it. 
136),  sp^ka  thus  of  tbe  forms  seen  in  clouds : — 


Ora  vaUre  videntnr,  et  umbnm  dooere  lata : 
Intardum  magni  montea  avolsaqoe  *axa 
Hontibus  anteire  et  solem  aacodere  prietsr ; 
likda  alios  trahsre  atque  lodBom^  bma  aiaibft 


320 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[t>k8.TU.  Araii.15,'71. 


In  Hamiet  De  Qaiocej  allows  that  there  are 
some  "  gleams  of  evanesoent  Kllusioiu."  I  find 
more  than  tbat^namely,  clouds  with  the  fonu  of 
a  camel,  a  weasel,  a  whale. 

I  cannot  nfrain  from  quoUng  a  beautiful  de- 
sraiption  from  a  poet  whom  Oe  Quincej  ha«' 
styled  a  "barbarian" — John  Keats;  although, 
jjterhapa,  in  point  of  time  the  quotation  is  imper- 
tdnent: — 

..."  before  the  erjtXtl  huTens  datlMD 
1  watch  and  dole  upon  the  silver  take* 
Pictored  in  western  lovelioesi,  that  takes 
The  (embiaace  of  gold  rocks  and  bright  gold  und^ 
lalands  and  creeks  and  amber-fretted  Mranda, 
With  horses  prancing  o'er  thctti,  palicea  ' 
And  towers  of  ametbf  st,"  to. 
In  fine,  I  do  not  find  that  Wordsworth,  "  if  he 
did  not  first  notice,  oertainlv  has  noticed  most 
dicamstanliallj  "  what  De  (^uincer  cumbroualf 
terms  "  the  pageants  of  sky bi^t  architectujre." 

H.  B.  COITBBILL. 
The  PbiUwnli,  Mudenhead. 


Ahotheb  Old  Jeitsiks.^-I  eoclose  a  cutting 
from  Berrow's  Worceder  Journal  of  April  1,  1871. 
in  the  hope  that  some  correspondent  of  "N,  &  Q.' 
resident  in  the  neighbourhoood  will  inveatigata 
the  case  as  thoroughly  as  Mb.  Polb  Carxw  did 
that  of  Edward  Couch  of  Torpoint,  stated  to  be 
one  hundred  and  ten,  but  clearly  proved  (mU 
p.  200)  by  Mr.  Poix  Cabkw,  upon  inTestigation, 
to  be  ninety-five  I  — 

"  In  onr  obilaarr  this  week  we  record  the  dealb,  on 
the  25th  ult,  of  John  Jenkins,  of  Coddlngt 
bnry,  Herefoi 
hundred  and  . .  .  . 
danghter,  wbo  ia  now  abont  elgbtv-five  years  of  age, 
s  small  mad  bat  near  Coddington  Croae,  and  wasformen; 
a  farm  laboarer  of  verj'  Industrious  habits.  For  manr 
years,  however,  he  has  been  supported  by  parochial  rellitf. 
Some  few  years  ago  Mr.  Trehetne  and  Hr.  Andrews,  of 
Boabnry,  vidtad  the  old  num,  and  were  sarprised  to  find 
him  ia  want  of  maay  necessary  articles,  anch  as  bed- 
clothing,  Ac,  whereupon  they  made  aa  appeal  to  the 
inhsbitania  on  hia  bebsif,  and  aufflcieat  money  was  raiaed 
to  bay  ineb  necessariea  as  he  stood  in  need  ot  The 
deceased  was  in  posaesdon  of  all  bis  facalliea  up  to  tfae 
time  of  bii  death.  He  freely  indulged  in  the  habit  of 
finitHnff  " 

Perhaps,  looking  at  the  dale  and  the  nan*,  it  ia 

only  a  hoax  played  off  upon  the  Worcader  Jowmal. 

A.O. 

SuBlTAUBa  IIT  DOKBSDAT  BooE.  —  In  going 
through  the  index  to  the  Domesday  Survey,  I  find 
the  names  "  Rogenis  Deiu  »di>et  dominat,"  and 
"  Adam  filius'Durandi  Mtdit  cpibut."  I  presume 
that  theee  were  the  surnames  of  the  persons  re- 
ferred to,  and  think  them  sufficiently  curious  to 
roaka  a  note  of  them. 

The  name  of  Boger  appears  to  have  been  sin- 

arly  uaixiated  with  gallantry  and  politeness, 
I  have  tb*  impresnon  of  a  medueval  seal 


gularly 


bearing  Uw  device  of  a  man  oanying  a  ro*e,  with 
the  le^nd, "  Sigillum  R<%eri  <jmn  km*  ^erwa." 
Again,  till  Roffo-  de  Coverley  ia,  and  will  ever 
be,  our  beau-ide^  of  the  tnllant  gentlemvi. 

M.D. 

SiaTTBOt-Biia. — The  latest  phase  of  the  tempor- 
snce  movement  ia,  as  voor  readers  are  probably 
aware,  the  institution  of  public-houses  wiukout  the 
drink.  One  or  two  of  these  houses  have  been 
opened  in  Liverpool,  and  have  been  attended  with 
a  tolenbla  amount  of  success.  The  following  is 
a  copy  of  a  signboard  over  one  of  these  temper- 
ance publichouses,  and  some  future  historian  of 
■ignboards  may  perhapa  be  grateful  for  its  pre- 
•erration  in  the  columns  of  "  N.  &  Q.'* :  — 
"  A  pabliehonse  withont  the  drink, 
Where  men  miy  read  and  smoke  and  '*''"'f| 

Tlien  eober  home  relDTD. 
A  Btepoing-itone  this  boose  yonll  find ; 
Come,  leave  your  mm  and  bear  baliiad. 
And  tmer  pleasoiea  learn. 
"  Workmaa'a  Beat.    Admiaaion  lit.  per  week.     Opta 
from  6  to  ig." 

F.  S. 

BaSOIT  LlBBtU'S  TBSTntONY  TO  THX  TAtUABLK 

Services  or  DiSTiHOUiaHBD  Fkekce  Scisntuic 

AMD  Literary  Msir.— Liebig,  the  celebrated  che- 
mical investigator  and  author,  to  whom  agricul- 
tural sdence  and  progress  are  so  much  indebted, 
paid  a  handsome  compliment,  the  other  day,  at  a 
meeting  of  the  Academy  of  Sciences  at  Munich, 
to  the  scientific  and  litera^  men  of  Paris,  when 
he  stated  how  much  he  (forty-eight  years  ago) 
and  other  Germans  had  been  indebted  to  Parisian 
men  of  science  and  others,  when  first  visiting 
Paris  for  the  purpose  of  prosecuting  their  studies, 
amidst  the  abundant  means  afforded  by  that  great 
city.  Baron  Liebig  menldoned.  in  particular,  the 
names  of  Qay-Lussac,  Arago,  Dulonr,  Th^nsfd — 
all  men  of  first-rate  eminence — to  whom  he  and 
other  Germans  were  deeply  grateful  for  taking 
them  by  the  hand,  and  giving  them  every  pos- 
sible aid  and  encouragement.  The  Baron  eaia  ha 
could  mention  many  of  his  countrymen — surgeons, 
naturalists,  and  orientalists — who,  like  himself, 
thankfully  remember  the  active  support  which 
they  met  with  from  the  savans  and  the  literati  of 
Paris.  A  warm  sympathy  for  all  that  ie  noble 
and  good,  he  said,  and  an  unselfish  hospitality, 
are  among  the  finest  traits  of  tlie  French  cha- 
racter.  The  French,  the  Baron  sud,  will  soon 
again  be  actively  enga^  on  the  neutral  ground 
of  scientific  pursuits,  in  which  the  best  mmds  of 
both  nations  must  meetj  and  by  this  means  the 
efforts  of  both,  united  m  a  common  cause,  will, 
by  degrees,  help  to  calm  down  the  bitter  feelings 
of  the  French  agunat  QermanT  —  feelings  of 
deenly  wounded  national  pride — the  conaequences 
of  tlie  war  which  was  foned  upon  Germany. 


4*8.  VII.  Aphil  15,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Such  notes  of  peace  and  goodwill,  pnxieedmg 
from  so  emmeot  &  quarter,  must  have  a  bappj 
eSeot,  and  will  be  huled  with  aatisfaction  on  every 
hand.  The  new  "reign  of  tenor"  which  now 
prevails  cannot  last;  and  t°he  voices  of  the  elo- 
quent successors  of  Guizot,  Cousin,  and  Ville- 
main,  of  Cuvier  and  Blainville,  will  soon  again 
be  heard  by  admiring  and  throoging  audiences, 
-without  fear  of  being  drowned  b;  the  thunder 
of  cannon.  John  Macsit. 

OxToid. 

Jomr  Eehfe,  Abchbishop  of  CAirraBBUBT. — 


archbishop  at  p.  264  of  the  present  volume  of 
"N.  &  Q.,"  to  say  that  they  are  emblazoned  in 
the  fine  east  window  of  Bolton  Percy  church.  He 
was  Archbishop  of  York  from  1426  to  1452, 
when  he  was  translated  to  Canterbury.  The 
arms  are  those  of  Kempe — Field  BuleB,  three 
garbs  or,  two  and  one,  and  round  the  shield  a 
"bordure  engr^ed  or,"  impaling  those  of  the  see 
of  Canterbury.'  Above  is  the  fi^iire  of  the  arch- 
bishop, the  Btze  of  life,  habited  in  chasuble,  dal- 
matic, embroidered  stole,  sandals,  and  jewelled 
gloves,  his  left  hand  holding  a  crozier,  whilst  his 
right  hand  is  raised  in  the  act  of  benediction. 
Bis  head  is  surrounded  by  a  nimbus  or  glory. 
The  window  in  question  is  said  to  contain  some 
of  the  finest  fifteenth-century  glass  in  the  county 
of  York.  John  1'icepord,  M.  A. 

Bollon  Percy,  near  Tadraster. 

The  LiBBjiBiEs  and  Mitseitmb  of  Paris. — 
The  following  extracts  from  some  French  news- 
papers now  before  me  may  be  welcome  to  some 
of  your  readers  who  take  an  interest  in  the  fate 
of  the  rolendid  libraries  and  muBeuma  of  Paris; — 

Ze  Tempt  of  March  7,  quoting  from  the  Con- 
dilutiormel,  says 


pice,  pcinto  ^ ^_ 

par  CillBt,  n's  rei;u  qa'une  ^gratignuTe. 

"Le  psiais  duLuxembporg.loDtiempli  d'oauTies  d'art, 
n'sre^u  ni  onobas  ni  dd^cIsC  d'obus.  Toules  leseutues 
du  grand  Jatdin  sonC  intactcs. 

"  L'£c»Ie  des  mines  a  tp^d  an  obm,  qui  ■  <xaa4,  dans 
lea  collections  min^raloRiqncB,  im  iigU  cjiii  est  &ii.lu6  k 
nne  quiazaine  de  mille  franca. 

"  La  convertum  da  dSme  da  Panth^n  a  bien  il£ 
travert^paran  obas,  mala  cet  obna  ayant  renconlxd  sous 
la  ooavertore  oae  uconde  coapole  en  piem  de  uille,  tl 
■'cat  tirrixi  et  n'a  pas  toucbd  oux  peiatnreB  da  baron 
Gnw. 

■■  La  serve  da  Jsrdin  deg  Fkntes  qui>a  it4  touch^  est 
d^k  r^r^  a>  bien  qu'en  ce  moment  OD  ue  voit  plna 
tnee  de  I'accideat. 

"Notre  incomparabla  dSme  des  Invalides,  le  Louvre, 
la  Sainte-Chapelle  du  Palais,  la  cath^rale  de  Facia,  ootra 
uine  de  Saint-Germain-dea-PrA,  sont 


"En  r&ami,  il  n'y  a  «a  qna  des  «. 

ticDli^res,  en  graode  qnaotit^  malbeoreusement,  qi 
soaffert.    En  moina  de  six  mens,  dos  mafans  euront  una 

The  same  newq^apor  of  March  10  gives  tlie 
following  paragraph  irom  the  Journal  officid: — 

"On  a'occapo  ootivement  aa  iiaaie  du  Loovre  de 
rAablir  les  coUectiona  dans  I'rilat  uii  eltea  ^ienC  avant 
U  ei^ge.  D'ici  &  peu  de  jours,  plusieurs  Ballea  pourront 
Eire  aavertss  an  public. 

Again,  the  Tempt  of  March  14,  says ; — 

"  Plaaienra  aallea  du  mua^  dn  Louvre  viennent  d'etre 
r^orfcaniB^BS.  Le  public  puurra  les  visiter  it  partir  dti 
mardi  14  mars,  de  dix  heurea  dn  matin  Aquatre  beurea 
do  Boir.  Oq  entrero  pai  Tescalier  ds  Henri  II,  pavilion 
de  I'Horloge." 

Henbt  W.  Hbnfrex. 

M aikham  Hoos^  Brighton. 

Aif  Old  Oxford  Epiorau. — Cjril  Jackson  was 
Dean  of  Christ  Church,  Oxford,  and  Nathan 
Wetherell  (Master  of  University  College),  Dean 
of  Hereford,  about  the  beginning  of  this  century. 
Wetherell  when  elected  to  the  headship  of  Uni- 
versity was  very  poor.  At  that  time  the  Oxford 
Canslwas  not  completed,  and  the  shares  in  it  were 
Belling  at  almost  nominal  sums.    Wetherell,  be- 

K'  ming  to  receive  an  income  from  his  college, 
ught  shares  in  the  canal,  which  ulllmately  were 
worth  six  hundred  pounds  per  shore,  and  became 
■vwj  rich, 

]3r.  Burton,  a  canon  of  Christ  Church,  had  a 
daughter  who  was  very  clever,  and  wrote  some 
very  pretty  verses.  She  was  known  by  the  name 
of  "Jack  Burton."  Amour  other  little  poems 
was  the  following,  on  the  above  little  history  of 
Cyril  and  Nathan : — 

"As  Cyril  and  Sathan  were  walHnff  bv  QueenX 
Sayi  Cyril  to  Nathan, '  We  two  are  botft  Jcanj, 

And  bishops  perhaps  we  (hull  be.' 
Saya  Nathao, '  You  mav,  but  I  never  aboil ; 


I  was  a  member  of  University  College  before 
1800,  and  remember  the  production  of  this  epi- 
gnuu.    I  never  saw  it  in  print.  F.  C,  P. 


(Burrteri. 
ANAKKALA,  PAVODRITE  WIFE  OP  AKBAK. 

"  Hla  nnzracioua  son  (Selim),  holding  f^t  hia  former 
impietj,  and  being  at  the  head  of  an  army  of  leventy 
thousand  men,  ppoD  vbom  he  had  conferred  many  com- 
mands, refosed  to  do  it,  anleas  he  irould  give  a  general 
omnesty  to  all  the  conspirators,  whose  lirea  and  irell- 
belnge  vere  os  dear  to  him  as  his  own.  Thia  answer 
incensed  his  father  to  a  denial,  wbercapon  he  disiodEcs 
his  anuy,  and  marched  to  Elabasse,  where  be  commondeil 
all  sorts  of  coin,  of  gold,  silver,  and  brass  Co  be  stamped 
with  his  own  name  and  motto ;  which,  lo  vex  bis  father, 
he  sent  to  him,  and  besides  courted  his  father's  wiln 
Anarkalo."— Sir  Thomas  Herbert's  Trmdi  into  Aiia  and 
Africa,  vol.  i.  p.  419 ;  Hoiris'a  Vouagci  oiuf  Travtli. 
"  Yet,  notwithstanding  that   long-continued  custom 


322 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4"'8.TII.Apim.l6,7L 


there  for  tbe  eldest  son  to  succeed  tfaa  father  in  that 
great  empire,  AcbaW  Cha,  father  of  the  late  king,  npon 
high  and  joat  displeasure  taken  against  his  aon,  for 
climbing  np  into  the  hed  of  Anarkelee,  bis  fatber's  most 
beloved  wife  (whose  name  signified  tbe  Kernel  of  ■ 
Pomegranate),  and  for  other  base  actions  of  his,  which 
stirred  up  bia  father's  high  di^leasure  against  him, 
resolred  to  break  that  ancient  custom  ;  and  therefore  In 
bia  liretjme  protested  that  not  he,  but  his  giandcbild. 
Sultan  Coobsunoo  (Khnira),  whom  he  always  kept  in 
his  court,  should  aacceed  him  in  that  empire,''— ^  Voyagt 
to  Eait  Tudia,  by  Mr.  Edward  TenT,  Chaplain  to  Sir 
Thomss  Roe,  printed  with  the  TrajielM  ialaEail  India  of 
Sig.  Fielro  Delia  Talle.    LondoD,  1665. 

An&r  Kali,  meaning  the  pomegranate  bud,  ig 
RuppoBed  to  htne  iMeii  the  pet  oame  siven  b; 
AkW  to  his  favourite  vife  Donna  Juliana,  of 
Portuguese  eictmotion,  with  reference  to  Granada,* 
tbe  last  Moorish  stronghold  in  Spaan,  which  hu 
a  split  pomei^raDBte,  ite  armorial  t>enring,  carved 
or  painted  on  its  public  buildings,  from  the  in- 
troauction  of  which  fruit  into  Europe  tbe  name 
is  sfud  to  be  derived. 

When  Abul  Fagl,  the  enlightened  minister  of 
Akbar.was  baselv  murdored  by  onler  of  the  Prince 
Setim,  in  a.d.  1003,  tbe  Selima  Begum  was  sent 
on  an  embassy  to  Hi-Abfis,  the  modem  Allah- 
&bltd,  to  brinr  bun  to  court  at  Agra,  when  re* 
ported  to  be  sincerely  penitent  for  this  execrable 
murder.  According  to  one  accountt,  the  Begitm, 
or  Sult&na  Selima,  was  onlj  the  adoptive,  and 
not  the  real  mother  of  SsUm,  afterwards  Jah&n- 
girj  but  either  way  she  would  appear  to  have 
been  the  same  as  Anar  Kali,  supposed  to  be  the 
Poppa,  or  PdpiBu,  proverbial  for  misrule,  among 
the  RAjputs. 

Were  Selim,  Murfid  and  Danial,  tbe  sons  of 
Akbar,  all  three,  the  sons  of  one  and  the  same,  or 
by  different  mothersP  and  in  what  Hindu  worlis 
ia  any  account  given  of  the  miadoings  for  which 
tbe  Poppa  Bm  has  become  proverbial  among  the 
Rajputs  f  R.  E.  W.  Ellib. 

StarcrOM,  near  Eieter. 

"Anima  Chhtsti."— This  prose  ia  usually  as- 
Mgned  to  St.  I^atius,  Some  say  that  SL  Thomas 
Aquinas  was  the  writer.  Ramboch,  I  believe, 
makes  it  doubtful,  only  so  far  committing  himself 
as  to  stiy  that  it  is  found  in  a  book  of  devotion  of 
the  fourteenth  century.  Is  it  to  be  found  in  tbe 
works  of  St.  Thomas  F  and  if  not  by  that  saint,  to 
whom  is  the  Catholic  world  indebted  for  such  a 
devotion  P  H.  A.  W. 

Madlls.  Avreiti.— I  have  an  engraving,  date 
1 746,  of  Madlle.  Auretti,  a  theatrical  personage,  of 
whose  hiator]'  I  ahould  be  glad  to  Know  some- 
thing. A.  E.  Babbrtt. 

[There  are  two  engraved  portmils  of  this  once-bmed 


_ _ Henry  Phillips    F.H.3, 

p.  812. 
t  MoQDtslaart  Elphinstone's  Hittory  of  India,  vol.  il. 


a  letter  to  Sir  Hon 

,  __^_.   '  We  are  making  grei    , 

la  and  the  Auretti,  a  charming  French  girl."] 

Old  Ballid. — Can  any  of  your  correspondent! 
inform  me  if  the  ballad  of  wnicb  I  give  the  lint 
verse  (it  consists'of  seven)  is  printed  P  I  have  it 
in  black  letter  12mo,  and  the  heading  is  "A  Plea- 
sant Song."  The  words  seem  familiar  to  me,  yet 
I  cannot  at  this  moment  trace  it  to  any  printed 

"For  earthly  chance,  for  joy  or  peine 

1  neither  hope  nor  doe  despare  : 

In  sichnesse.  health,  in  losse  oi  gaine. 

My  God  I  praise,  and  doe  oot  rate 

Far  wealth,  for  want,  for  well,  fur  woe. 

I  force  DO  friend,  I  fean  no  foe." 

Jas.  Crosslei. 
"Bridbs  of  Endbrbt." — What  is  the  legend 
which  gave  its  name  to  the  tune  of  the  "  Brides 
of  Mavis  Enderby,"  referred  to  by  Jean  Ingelow 
in  her  poem  of  the  "  High  Tidfl  on  the  Coast  of 
Lincolnshire,  I57I "  P  and  why  was  this  tune  used 
as  an  alarum  P  A.  H.  K. 

[■ITiis  query  appeared  in  oar  3"*  8.  v.  i96,  withont 
eliciting  a  reply.  An  account  of  the  nmarhable  high 
tide  in  1571  is  priDlod  from  Bolinahed  in  Piahev  Thomp- 
son's i/utorji  of  Bottom,  edit.  1856,  p.  6a.] 

Bbkabzablb  Clock. — I  have  been  informed 
by  a  correspondent  at  Barcelona  that  there  is  for 
sale,  or  has  been  lately  sold  in  London,  a  very 
curious  and  valuable  astronomical  clock,  made  t^ 
a  watch  and  clock  maker  of  tbe  name  of  Billeter 
of  Barcelona,  and  said  to  be  worth  5,00(U.  or  0,00W. 
Being  desirous  of  discovering  whether  the  said 
clock  b  BtUt  oBered  for  sale,  I  shall  be  much 
obliged  if  you  can  elicit  any  particulars  concern- 
ing it ;  and  if  it  is  in  London,  wh(>re  it  is  to  be 
viewed.  A.  L.  McEwab. 

61,  Tbreadneedle  Street,  London. 

"  CODTUMtEB  OF  THB   ObBEB  OF  THB  VlSIIA- 

Tios  OP  THB  Blbsbbd  Vibbik  Maet." — I  have 

been  trying  for  some  time  to  see  or  to  purchase  a 
copy  of  tbe  above  book,  I  have  not  met  with  it 
at  the  British  Museum  or  Sion  College  Libran. 
Could  any  of  your  taaders  help  me  P     H.  A.  W . 

A  Geh  Qttbrt. — I  have  a  very  beautiful  in- 
taglio representing,  I  believe,  tbe  head  of  I'erseus. 
It  is  Bigned  a.  niXAEP.  Is  this  the  name  of  n 
modern  fVench  or  Qerman  artist,  written  in  Greek 
letters  P  Was  there  an  onctenf  Greek  gem-cutter 
of  this  name  F  and,  if  so,  what  does  the  initial 
■land  for  P        .  P.  W.  S. 

H6tel  d<  Lnxembonrg,  Nice. 

Nbw  Gbbuab'  Flag. — In  the  Timet  of  March  1, 
1871, 1  read  what  follows  :— 

The  QEBUAir  EhFibE.— Tbe  new  Gemun  imperial 


*»8.vii.Ateii.i5,71.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Mi-parti  is  not  used  in  Englaod.  Ouillim,  edi- 
tion If  24,  p.  26,  givea  the  shield  of  Pono^tz  u 
a  rue  coat,  "  Ftirted  p«r  ^le  and  base,  gulea, 
argent  and  sable."  It  is  ^ven  in  the  IFappen- 
buch  as  the  coat  of  Fanwitz,  and  is  so  quoted  by 
iSpeaer.  But  this  is  not  tni-parii.  The  bearing 
is,  as  fu  u  I  know,  rare  ererywhere.  It  is  seen, 
for  instance,  in  the  coat  of  Falier  of  Venice  r 
"  Spaccato,  semipartito  d' oro  e  di  azzurro  nel  capo, 
eopra  1'  argenlo";  and  of  Foscnri:  "Spaccato, 
semipartito  nel  capo,  1.  di  azzurro  col  S.  Marco 
di  Veuezia,  2.  d'  argento :  sopra  1'  oro."  Here,  in 
Foscari,  1.  is  the  dexter  side  of  the  upper  half, 
2.  the  sinister :  the  whole  lower  hnlf  is  gold. 

But  what  is  this  new  German  imperial  flagF 
Will  some  one  who  knows  put  it  into  intelligible 
language  P  It  would  also  be  interesting  to  hear 
what  position  is  occupied  bj  the  supportara  of  a 
flag?  D.P. 

Stuarts  Lodge,  Halmm  Walla. 

OoRSS. — A  young  ladj  trusts  that  the  learned 
contributors  to  "  N.  &  Q."  will  not  6nd  it  beneath 
alike  their  dignity  and  their  knowledge  to  ac- 
quaint her  with  the  emblematic  meaning  of  the 
slirub  goree.  Before  renturin^  to  appeal  to  them, 
abe  has  searched  for  it  in  tbIu  in  all  the  Languages 
of  Flowers  and  other  similar  authorities  to  which 
sbe  bas  access.  Mqins  sb  Axto. 

[A  BDggeatian  Dccnrg  Id  a>.  we  may  sav  iajost  an  oar 
lijH,  that  Kone  ia  id  cmblain  of  a  good  o^d  Eoglbh  cut- 
tom,  which  ii  utd  to  go  "  oat  of  fashion  when  the  gorse 
U  out  of  bloatom."] 

HoLCUB  LiUATTs.  —  Apropos  of  "  Fog,"  why  is 
this  grass  called  Yorkthtrefogi 

James  Bkitten. 

Irish  HonsE  of  Couuons'  Lists.  —  Is  there 
any  book  published  in  which  I  can  find  complete 
lists  of  the  Irish  Houses  of  Commonsf 

Edmttnii  U.  Boili. 

[Lodge's  "  Pailianientsry  R«Kia(Fr  of  the  Irish  House 
of  Commons  from  1&85  to  1769  "  is  printed  In  the  Ubtr 
MuattTtm  Publicorun  Hibtrntir,  being  the  Beport  of 
R.  Lsscellu,  pablishedbv  the  Record  Com  mission,  3  Toll. 
1824,  fol.  Sec  Put  1.  pp.  1-40.  For  a  continuitioa  of 
the  list  to  the  year  1800,  consnlt  The  Jmirnali  of  iht 
Hanu  of  Oimmmi  of  Irtlatd.-voln.  ylii.  U)  lix.  Dublin, 
179&-1800,foU] 

JoHir  KxBaBT.— Kersey's  EUmenU  of  Algdira 
(folio,  Lcudoti,  K.DCLXXiii.)  is  very  affectionately 
dedicated  by  the  author  to  his  patfoos  the  Den- 
tons.  This  dedication,  doubtless  familiar  to  many 
mathematical  scholsrs,  I  have  given  tn  txtenso, 
with  the  hope  that  it  may  elicit  some  information 
liom  your  learned  correspondenls  concemiug  two 
points  connected  with  the  same,  which  hitherto 
I  have  been  unable  to  obtain. 

The  following  is  in  accordance  with  the  original, 
with  tbe  exception  of  some  of  the  ca|dtals : — 


"To  Alexander  Denton  of  HiBadim  In  the  eoDutfOf 
Backs,  Eaqaire,  and  H'  Edmund  Denton  his  brotbar; 

the  hopeful  blossoms,  and  only  oApring  of  the  tnilv  just 
■ud  vertuoaa  Edmund  Dentop,  Esq. )  son  and  heir 'of  8'' 
Alexsnder  Denton.  Knt.  A  fiitliiy  pUriot,  and  eminent 
anfferer  in  our  late  intestine  wua,  for  his  loyalty  to  his 
I»te  Majesty  King  Charles  the  First  of  cvet-blessed  m&- 
moiy;  John  Eeney,  in  testimony  of  bis  Kiatitade,  for 
aigiul  ftvonrs  coafarr'd  on  him  by  that  truly  noble 
family ;  which  also  gave  both  birth  and  Donrishment  to 
hia  mat/iematical  studies,  hambly  dedicstea  his  libours  in 
this  Treatise  of  the  Elements  of^the  Algebraical  Art." 

I  have  searched  several  biographical  works,  bat 
cannot  find  any  mention  made  of  Sir  Edmund 
Denton,  Knt,  and,  as  a  matter  of  course,  neither 
of  bis  tejubles.  A  reference  to  where  such  may 
be  found  will  be  gratefully  accepted.  Also,  what 
were  the  circumstances  which  sufficiently  inter- 
ested the  Denton  family  in  the  author's  behalf  as 
to  influence  them  to  ^to  "both  birth  and  nourish- 
ment "  to  his  algebraical  studies  ? 

J.  Pebst. 

Waltbam  Abbey. 

[Sir  Alexander  Denton,  Knt.  (bom  1696.  died  in  Jan. 
1644-5),  resided  at  Hillesden  House,  Bucks,  which  was 
garrisoned  in  1641  for  King  Charles  I.,  and  ita  slta- 
ation,  about  Gfteea  milea  from  Oxft>rd  and  eight  from 
Ayleabory,  rendered  it  a  place  of  importance.  In  1643 
it  waa  taken  by  the  Parlismentary  forces,  of  which 
Vicars,  in  his  Parliamtntary  Chrvniclt,  1646,  ii.  181, 1S3. 
has  given  the  following  account: — "It  was  taiien  by  a 
party  that  went  from  Newport  Pagnell,  and  some  from 
about  Banbury,  they  being  tn  all  not  sboTS  an  hundred; 
yet  there  were  in  the  honse  140,  many  whereof  were 
then  taken  prisoners,  and  abonl  100  arma,  but  Sir  Alex- 
ander hinuelf  escaped."  .  .  .  .  "  The  taking  of  Hillesdea 
House,  which  a  week  before  the  garriSDu  of  Aylesbury 
attempted,  but  could  not  take ;  after  which  time,  and 
before  we  eudeavoared  it,  tbe  enemy  bad  sent  in  two  or 
three  loida  of  ammanilion,  where  were  taken  above  200 
priMinen,  about  twelve  barrels  of  powder,  and  propor- 
tionable match,  all  their  aims,  and  about  fifty  horse, 
which  service  was  mnch  to  the  ease  and  comfort  of  the 
poor  inhabitania  of  the  almost  wasted  county  of  Back- 
inghamsbire,  which  was  oppressed  by  them  ;  and  by  the 
countenance  of  which  houae,  great  sums  of  money  and 
conlribailans  were  raised  botli  for  themselvea  and  Oxford, 
and  a  regiment  of  foot,  and  a  completing  Col.  Smith's 
regiment  of  borsp,  waa  speedily  intended,  where  also  were 
taken  Sir  Alexander  Denton  and  the  said  Col.  Smith, 
besides  two  Seld  offlceta  and  divers  captains."  The  pedi- 
gree of  the  DeDton  fbmilv  of  Hillesden  is  given  in  Lips- 
comb's .Biic*!,  iiL  17.— I'ha  works  of  John  Keraey  are 
better  known  iban  bis  personal  history.  Be  waa  bom  in 
1616,  and  died  about  1690,] 

"KiUEBST."  —  In  what  collection  of  ballads 
shaU  I  find  otie  bearing  the  above  name  P  It  gave 
a  name  to  and  apparently  suggested  the  idea  of  a 
novel  by  William  Black,  puDlished  about  a  yeat 
ago.  K.  R. 

r "  Kilmany  "  is  the  thirteenth  Bard's  Song  in  Kigbt  II. 
of  The  Qmta'M  Wait,  a  Legendary  Poem,  by  James 
Hogg,  the  EtUick  Shepherd.  ^  (K  ")0  I C 

„ , —         ,  O 

meet  Dnneira  s  men,"  &&] 


"  Bennj  EUmeay  gaed  up  the  f^en ; 
Rnt  it  WBsna  to  meet  Dnneira'a  mei 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»S.VI1.  ApaiLl6,71. 


"La  Bbllx  Daub  bakb  Mekcl"— From  -what 
source  did  Keats  derive  the  original  iden  of  this 
poemP  F.  Oledstanes  Waoqh. 

[HosI  probably  from  tli«  poem  of  the  ume  nam«, 
seaciaU;  altribated  to  Alain  ChsTticr;  but  whicb  H. 
Psnlin  Paris  {StamaeTili  fiim(ais,  vu. 'i&2)  regardB  as 
having  been  written  by  Jean  Marol-l 

PoHTRAii  PAmTDfo,— Wanted  the  name  of  any 
writer  on  portrait-pain  ting  in  waler-coloure  who 
treats  more  difPnselT  on  tne  subject  of  draperies, 
&c,  than  Mi.  Uemfield  does.  T.  H.  B. 

MXI1I.XTA1  Skax  rovm  ut  the  Islb  or  Ely  : 
RoBEBT  WnjsoK  OF  Mabce,  is  the  Islb  of  £lt. 
A  friend  of  nunehaa  sent  me  an  impfesuoa  fiom  a 
seal,  about  three  quartets  of  aa  inch  in  diameter. 
In  tb«  centre,  on  an  heraldic  rose,  lies  a  lion 
corled  up  and  asleep;  and  round  him  is  the  io- 
scnption,  EH  le  bose  le  litr  repose. 

Xhe  brass  seal  from  which  this  is  taken  was 
found,  I  am  toid,  in  the  rectorj  ffarden  at  Went- 
worth,  near  Ely.  From  its  general  appearance  and 
the  letterinz,  I  should  be  inclined  to  place  its 
date  about  the  fourteenth  century. 

I  have  also  an  octavo  print  representing'  a  msn, 
in  the  drees  of  sixty  yeera  ago,  resting  hia  left 
arm  on  a  conned  pilUr,  on  which  the  word  "  Pro- 
vidence" is  inscribed,  and  holding  in  hia  right 
hand  a  scroll  bearing  this  inscription :  — 

"  I,  Robprt  Wilson  of  March,  in  tbe  Isle  of  Hv,  Cam- 
bridgeshire, am  of  opinion  that,  take  Eogland,  Scotland, 
and  Irelanil,  tbe  West  Indies  and  America,  sea  and  land 
together.  I  have  seen  more  of  those  parts  of  the  world 
than  anr  man  existing." 

Can  any  of  jour  Cambridgeahire  correepondents 
inform  me  whetlier  the  seal  mentioned  belonged 
to  any  county  family  there,  or  was  merely  a  per- 
sonal badge  and  motto  of  some  long-distant 
rector  P  Lysons  says  tbe  manor  was  annexed  to 
the  office  of  sacrist  to  tbe  monastery  of  Ely. 
And  secondly,  as  to  who  Robert  Wilson  of  March 
was,  and  on  what  ^tmds  he  rested  his  some- 
what pretentious  claim  f  SAUtTEL  Sandabs. 
28,  Gloster  Place,  Ryde  Park. 

Sana,  "Laumqee  Horatifs." — Can  you  in- 
form me  where  I  can  find  the  words  of  a  song 
called  "  Lnuriger  Horatius  "  P  It  used  to  be  sung 
at  one  of  the  American  uniTorsitiea. 

T.  J.  WAODntaBAH. 

Stybino  Fakili. — Any  genealogical  or  other 
information  respecting  the  following  persona  will 
oblige ;  —  Nathaniel  Styring  and  Jane  Watson, 
marriedin  IiotherhamI663;  Thomas  Styring,  bom 
1726;  John  Strring,  bom  1726;  Robert  Styring, 
bom  1729;  William  Styring,  bom  1733,— all  of 
Misson.  G.  W.  STTBUfe. 

Eldon  Mount,  Leeds. 

SiERirHoi.9  Airo  HopKisa.— Is  there  any  trath 
in  the  statement  made  by  a  writer  in  the  lUuitrated 


Revieic  of  March  1,  that  the  following  Terse  wu 
the  joint  product  of  these  twin  poets  F  — 
"  And  how  did  b«  oommit  their  fmita 
Unto  the  caterpillar. 
And  eke  (he  laboar  of  their  hands 
He  gave  Co  (he  grasshopper." 
By-the-bye,  it  is  a  little  curions  that  the  Psalms 
shoiild  have  been  twice  versified  by  a  combination 
of  poetic  talent    The  task  was  not  too  great  for 
one  writer,  and  we  cannot  compare  the  success 
achieved  by   Messrs.    Stemhold   &   Hopkins,   or 
Messrs.   Tate  &  Brady,  with  that  which  M9L 
Erekmann-Chatrian  have  won.  C.  J.  R. 


"  Nor  how  he  did  commit  their  ftuitss 
Unto  the  eatetpvller ; 
And  all  the  labour  of  their  hindes 


le  gTBBaahopper  " 


ScN-DiAL  QTtBBTBS.— 1.  What  is  the  best  prac- 
tical book,  in  English,  French,  or  Latin,  on  the 
conatruction  of  sun-dials  P 

2.  Where  shall  I  £nd  the  most  complete  ac- 
count of  mottoes  suitable  for  sun-dials  ?  I  know 
those  quoted  in  "  N.  &  y." 

3.  Where  c^  I  find  picturesque  designs  for 
mural  sun-dialaP  I  suppose  these  are  not  to  be 
found  in  a  collected  form.  Reference,  therefore, 
to  even  one  will  oblige. 

4.  Will  not  some  of  your  correspondente,  in 
England  or  on  tbe  Continent,  who  know  of  quunt 
or  picturesque  sun-dials,  oblige  the  readeis  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  by  a  list  of  them  P  P.  W.  S. 

H&tel  da  Luxembourg,  Nice. 
A  ToADSTOHK  RiNO. — I  havc  a  ring  containing 
a  stone  of  a  browniah-fawn  colour,  set  in  gold. 
The  stone  is  about  five-eighths  of  an  inch  by  half 
an  inch  in  «iie,  and  two-eighths  of  an  inch  thick; 
bas,  according  to  the  story  in  the  family,  been 
IT  possession  for  many  generations.  We  have 
always  held  it  to  he  a  toadstone,  and  tradition 
says  It  was  efficacious  in  preventing  miscarriages. 
I  should  be  grateful  for  any  information  on  the 
subject  H.  a  C. 

Arta  Club. 

UuBOBOTE. — There  are  several  families  of  that 

mie  in  Holland,  and  they  say  that  their  ances- 

irs  were  Scotchmen,   A  branch  of  the  Umbgrove 

famiW  must,  then,  have  emigrated  &om  Scotland 

in  lebO  or  aftervrards. 

Some  years  ago,  one  of  these  Dutch  Umbgroves 
happenbg  to  be  in  Edinburgh,  saw  bis  very  name 
written  on  the  plate  of  some  doors  in  that  city. 
If  any  Scotch  Umbgrove  can  confirm  the  above 
statement,  and  give  some  information  that  would 
throw  light  upon  it,  I  shall  feel  much  obliged. 


4*aTii.Ap«Li6,'7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


325 


I  should  also  like  to  know  what  itrms  the  Scotch 
family  bean,  uid  if  it  can  retrace  its  anceBtry 
back  till  leOO.  A  Dutch  Lady. 

fiierbaven. 

Fbench  Wesletak  Magazine. — Con  but  one 
inrona  me  wbetfaec  there  has  been  publuhed 
daiing  this  century  a  Wealeyan  or  Metbodut 
mapuine  in  French  P  I  desire  to  see  the  numbers 
for  1830,  1831, 1832.  I  have  reaaou  to  believe 
such  a  magazine  has  been  published,  but  cannot 
find  it  in  the  British  Museum.  J.  F.  H. 

Choice  os  Wdbds:  "Wins"  ob  "Blink"P— 
The  word  wink  is  so  d'ten  used  instead  of  Mink, 
when  the  meaning  is  that  a  person  purposely 
blinds  himself,  or  shuts  hie  eyes  to  any  transac- 
tion, that  I  tniok  the  expression  must  be  em- 
ployed simply  from  imitation,  and  without  a 
thought  that  the  word  bUak,  while  being  more 
elegant,  really  expresses  in  its  symbolical  sense 
the  meaning  intended  to  be  conveyed  by  the 
term  wink ;  which,  being  assodated  with  the  habit 
known  as  "  ogling,"  had  better  be  left  solely  to 
'-^^oBS  its  own  Tulgar  meaning. 

^xieographers  ^ve  the  same  definition  in  the 
e  of  each  word ;  but  I  think  that  good  taste 
and  symbolical  analogy  both  seem  to  sanction 
the  oxclusiTe  nse  of  the  term  Uink  in  the  sense  of 
"shuttingout  of  sight,"  or  "purposely  evading" 
any  question  or  allusion.  M.  A.  B, 


ixprase 


StpIUH. 

OLD  SANDOWN  CASTLE,  ISLE  OF  WIGHT. 
(4"'S.Tl.  669;  vii.  103, 175.) 

H.  H.  will  be  pleased  to  learn  that  the  rery 
fine  old  carved  ook  chimney-piece,  to  which  he 
judiciously  drew  attention  (p,  175),  has  not  been 
doomed  to  the  destruction  be  deprecates. 

The  armorial  bearings  to  which  H.  H.  alludes 
are  those  of  Kichard  Weston,  first  Earl  of 
Portland,  Lord  High  Treasurer  of  England  in 
the  reign  of  Charles  I.,  Governor  of  the  Isle  of 
Wight,  &C.,  which  are  boldly  and  artistically 
carved  upon  this  interesting  relic,  which  formerly 
atood  in  the  banqueting  hall,  but  which,  on  the 
demolition  of  the  castle,  was  carefully  preserved 
by  the  Boval  Ennneera  at  Sandown ;  until  at 
length,  appucatioa  laving  been  made  officially  to 
Oovemmeat,  the  carving  in  question,  after  due 
investigation,  was  made  over  to  Lieut.-Colonel 
6.  Weston,  a  collateral  deacendaut  of  the  said 
Bichard  Weston,  whose  family  became  extinct  in 
the  direct  male  line  on  the  death  of  Thomas, 
fourEb  Earl  of  Portland.  R.  E. 

Tour  corresMDdeiit  O.  will,  I  trust,  permit  me 
to  set  him  right  as  to  the  date  of  tbe  demise  of 
Bichud  Weetoa,  fint  Enl  of  PtfftliBd.     Be 


died  at  Wallingford  House,  near  Whitehall,  on 
March  13, 1634  (0.  S.),  not  in  Mardi  1636. 

My  authorities  in  support  of  this  correction 
are — 1.  The  certificate  m  tbe  College  of  Arms, 
dgned  by  Jerome  Weston,  second  Earl  of  Port- 
land, son  and  heir  of  the  deceased,  a  copy  of  which 


is  appended  to  tbe  Wutorumtm  imtimtiuimm  et 
equeiCrufamilia  Genaalogia,  by  Sir  William  S^or, 
Garter  King-at-Arma.     2.  Harleien  MS.  1137,  in 


which  the  armorial  achievement  borne  at  the 
funeral  of  Richaid  Earl  of  Portland  is  delineated. 
3.  The  inscription  on  his  mi^iiificent  monument 
'  Winchester  Cathedral,  which  nma  as  follows: 
"  Dtpasitum 

RiOABDI  WaSTOH,  COHCTIS  PORTLASn, 

Uagnl  Angliie  TheaaaracU 
quo  mDDert  fungi 

Buna  Rcgta  uiroli  qasrto, 


decimo  tsrtio  die  Hortii." 
I  ms^  add  that  King  Charles,  "who  dearly 
loved  him,"  viailed  the  dying  earl  in  hia  last 
momenta,  and  commanded  the  court  to  wear 
mourning  for  him.  His  son  Jerome,  second  Earl 
of  Portland,  was  appointed  to  succeed  him  as 
Lieutenant-General  of  thf  province  of  Southamp- 
ton, Captain  of  the  Isle  of  Wight,  and  Governor 
of  Carisbrooke  Castle  and  of  idl  the  fortresses  in 
the  said  island;  but  he  lost  these  appointmenta 
under  the  Commonwealth.  I.  A.  N. 


TRAPP'S  "TIKGIL." 
(4'"  S.  Tii.  237.) 
Having  read  Trapp's  translation  of  the  Mneii 
with  satisfaction,  I  offer  my  opinion  that  it  has 
been  unduly  depreciated.  I  cannot  deny  the  ap- 
plicability of  "cold"  toTrapp;  but  he  has  the 
merits  of  fidelity,  pains>tahing,  and  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  his  author.  I  know  no  translation 
BO  faithful,  and  none  in  blank  verse  more  s^rit«d. 
Mr,  Collins,  in  his  Ancient  Ctamci  for  Engtith 
Eeaderi,  has  given  an  excellent  essay  on  Virgil, 
and  has  generally  used  the  translation  of  the  late 
Professor  Conington,  as  good  a  scholar  as  Trapp, 
and  perhaps  a  better  poet  I  limit  my  cosiparison 


Spiravere ;  pedes  vesUa  deflnxit  >d  Imoi ; 
Et  van  latMau  patuit  dea."— .iSl  i.  40Z-S. 
"  She  laid ;  and  ai  ahe  tamed,  ber  TOty  neck 
Shone  brii;bt :  her  bair  a  tngnncj  dlviae 
ArabroBU  breathed.    Down  falls  bar  mving  robt^ 
And  by  her  walk  the  goddess  moves  confessed." 

"  Ambrodal  tretSM  rrand  bar  head 
A  mora  than  earthly  iitfptaea  shad ; 


NOTES  AND  QUBBIES.         [i-^s-tii.  AFiuLi5,T 


Her  faUtng  rab«  her  tiiotatepa  swept. 
And  showed  the  goddess  u  she  sUipt."- 
"  Sic  paler  Maett,  Inlentis  oi 


"  Thus  Prince  Matt,  wMle  sll  sUent  sate, 
Alone  related  the  decrees  of  besveD, 
Aad  bis  own  voyages  described :  he  stoppet 
At  lenglh,  and  ending  hert^  retired  to  rest.' 

■■  So  King  X.aen  told  bts  Ule, 
WhUe  aU  beside  were  stiU— 
Behearsed  the  fortonei  of  his  sail. 

And  Fate's  mjsteriODS  will: 
Then  to  its  close  his  legend  bronght. 
And  gUdl7  took  the  rest  he  songht."' 
"  Hia  medium  dictia  sermonem  abrumpit,  ct  auras 
.^^gra  fugit,  seqne  ex  oculia  averlil  et  aufcrt; 
Linquem  mnlla  metn  canctantem  et  malta  parsntem 
Diceie :  smcipiant  famulgs  conlaiiBaqae  membra, 
Marmoreo  rafemnt  thatamo,  stratisqae  reponnat.'' 
.^R.  IT.  S68-392. 
"  Thi«  said,  she  la  the  middta  of  her  speech 
Breaks  off  abrupt,  and  ticksning  ehons  the  light ; 
With  loathing  turns  her  eyes  from  his,  and  leaves 
Him  waverlDg,  and  a  thoDsand  things  to  saj 
Irresolute  in  fear.     Her  maids  support 
Her  bod;  as  she  sinks  into  their  arms, 
And  lay  her  ftinting  on  the  royal  bed."— 7>o;ip. 
"  Her  speech  hilf-done,  the  breaks  sway, 
And  sickening  shuns  the  eye  of  day. 

And  tears  her  from  his  gaze. 
White  be,  with  thousand  things  to  say, 

Still  falters  and  delays. 
Her  servants  lift  the  sinking  fair, 
And  to  her  marble  chamber  bear." — Coni»3*>it. 
"  DIsce,  puer,  virtntem  ex  me.  vemmqne  laborein, 

Fortnnam  oi  aliia."— ^«,  xii.  435-6. 
"  Tme  toil  and  virtoe  learn,  dear  yonlh,  from  me, 

Fortnna  from  others."— 7"rqjji, 
"  I.eam  of  your  father  to  be  great, 

Of  othan  to  be  fortunate."     " 
Mr.  OoUinsBays:  — 
"  The  recent  admirable  tranilation  of  the  Mndd  Into 


"  Whan  he  (Tiapp)  preached  bis  assize  sermon  at 
Oxfbrd,  ITS9,  it  was  obeerred  that  the  late  Rev.  Dr. 
Theopbilns  I.eigh,  Hester  of  Baltol  College,  and  then 
Vice- Chancellor  of  Oxford,  stood  up  all  the  time  of  hn 
preaching,  tu  manlTeat  his  high  sense  of  so  respectable  ■ 


An  anoiiTiiioaB  epi^m,  fonnd  in  The  FMoon, 
1767  (!>.  39),  b  seyere  upoo  Trapp  as  a  tranaUtor 
of  Virgil,  but  ahows  that  faia  pieacluog  waa  bold 
in  estimalioii :  — 
"  Hind  but  thy  preaching,  Trapp,  translate  no  farther : 

Is  it  not  written, '  Thou  sbalt  do  no  murtber '  ?  " 

A50H. 


the  melM  of  Scott  by  Ur.  Conington  will  nndoubtediv 
•oke  il«  place  bencaforward  as  by  far  the  most  poetical. 
La  it  ia  alao  the  most  scholarly  and  faithfhl,  rendering  of 


-P.  7. 


the  original. 

I  have  taken  the  specimeDs  of  Conington's  rer- 
fiton  &om  Mr.  Collins.  I  do  not  think  that  in 
fidelity  or  poetry  Trapp  auffera  by  the  comparison, 
Trapp'a  preface  to  the  ^neid,  and  "lutroduc- 
toiT  KemaKs "  prefixed  to  the  fourth  book,  are 
-well  worth  reading,  and  hia  notes  are  learned  and 
uaeful.  He  waa  Profeaaor  of  Poetry  at  Oxford, 
and  published  hia  Pralectionei  Poetica,  Oion, 
1711-1S[  London,  1736,  2  torn.  The  last  edition 
ia  neither  scarce  nor  deari  and  I  think  that  those 
trbo  buy  and  read  it  will  not  feel  that  their 
money  or  time  baa  be«n  misapent.  H.  B.  C. 

D.  &.  Oob. 


CHIGNONS. 
(4*  S.  Tii.  03,  261.) 
No  doubt  your  learned  correspondenta  MKaaas. 
MacCabb  and  HoDOKnr  riphcly  assume  that 
ladiea'  chigtumt  are  bo  be  traced  far  hack  in  anti- 
quity. There  ia,  indeed,  proof  enough  of  this  in 
Qerman  and  Koman  engraved  gema,  and  on  the 
walls  of  the  Pompeian  nouses  there  ia  a  picture 
of  a  Boman  lady  putting  on  the  pdlta,  and  a 
mother  about  to  nnrae  her  child,  iu  the  picture  of 
a  Boman  farmyard,  in  which  the  laifiea  wear 
perceptible  chimont,  but  much  smaller  than  those 
now  worn.  I  have  also  seen  many  medifeval 
illuminations  in  which  a  full-sized  chignon  is  ap' 
parent.  There  need  surely  be  no  wonder  eipressed 
at  this  J  there  are  so  few  ways  possible  of  dressing 
the  hatr,  that  every  way  has  surely  been  over 
and  over  again  anticipated.  But  now  for  the 
word : — I  have  a  copy,  which  was  made  a  pre- 
sent  to  me  by  one  utterly  ignorant  of  the  natut« 
of  the  book,  of  the  Mimoirea  de  Ciuanova.  It 
belonged  to  Thackeray,  and  haa  his  autograph  in 
two  volumes,  and  his  crest  and  monogram  stamped 
on  all  six.  It  was  purchased  at  his  sale,  and  in 
spite  of  its  "  UDUtterable  bassneas,"  as  Carlyle  haa 
it,  baa  been  diligently  read  by  its  late  owner, 
perhaps  aa  an  hiatorical  study.  In  vol.  ii.  chap.  xxi. 
the  Onevalier,  speaking  of  one  of  his  many  cod- 
quaats,  saya:  — 

"  Eni«  JtBJt  eoiffde  en  chevea^  avec  Hn  niKr&e  cAipnoii  ; 
mala  je  gliswis  tb-deaans,  tsnt  I'ldiJe  d  une  peiruqaa 
m'offusquait" 

Here,  then^  ia  a  cA^^non  proper  in  the  early 
days  of  Voltaire  and  Bous«eau — a  false  chignon, 
which  the  delicate  Chevalier  removed.  It  is 
difficult  to  aaugn  the  exact  date  to  this  extract; 
but  Caaanova  waa  bom  in  1726,  and,  as  thia  oc- 
curs in  a  very  early  period  of  his  career,  we  may 
put  it  dovTn  to  about  1747  to  1750.  The  word 
chignon  occurs  in  Hamilton  and  Legros'  excelleitt 
JVflicA  Dictionart/  (1864)  before  the  fashion  waa 
resuscitated,  but  it  ia  explained  aa  un  chignon 
(chez  les  femmes),  back  hair  twisted  in  a  knot, 
and  therefore  not  necessarily  false  hair.  By  the  i  [(> 
way,  can  any  of  your  readeia  tell  ma  whethw  > 
these  memoirs  of  Casanova  are,  aa  Carlyle  and 


4«B.vn.APBiii5,7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUEfilEa 


others  believe  them,  authentic ;  or  whether,  like 
the  memoin  of  the  Dnborry,  they  are  only  partinlij 
true,  founded  on  ffkctl"  Hair  Fbibwell. 

74,  Grcit  BuBsell  Street,  Bloomsbnir  Square. 


"BARos"  mcaoLSON. 

(4*  8.71.477;  Tii.18,286.) 
As  one  who,  tbrooghout  n  lon^  ftSBodation  with 
all  eorfs  and  conditiona  of  }>eriodica]s,  has  scrapu- 
louslj  abatained  from  writing  anything  which 
should  "  neceBBitate  the  relegation  of  the  volume 
to  HQ  upper  shelf,"  I  should  like  to  explain  that 
my  contributions  to  The  Toum,  written  at  a  very 
early  age,  were  not  of  a  kind  that  need  make  me 
in  later  life  ashamed  to  own  their  autharship. 
When  The  Town  came  out  (June,  1837)  I  bad 
not  attained  my  seventeenth  year,  but  some 
sketches  of  metropolitan  life  I  had  sent  the  editor 
procured  me  an  introduction  to  Ronton  Nicholson 
and  a  reg:nlar  engMcemeot,  which  continued  for 
about  two  years.  The  sodal  easays  and  the  dra- 
matic noticea  through  the  volumes  for  1838  and 
1639  were  mine,  and  my  acquuntance  with  Nichol- 
son enables  me  to'  state  that  he  had  much  more 
delicacy  of  tuacy  than  many  would  suppose  who 
only  Judge  of  the  man  from  the  "  Cockney  Ad- 
ventures "  and  the  afterwards  notorious  "  Judge 
and  Jury."  His  excessive  kindlinees  of  heart 
made  him  the  constant  resource  of  the  "  hard-up," 
and  the  half-sovereign  or  the  half-crown  vras  sure 
to  beelicited  by  any  applicant  with  a  tale  of  woe. 
He  was  a  Falstafi'  with  Banlolpb  and  Nym  at 
overy  comer.  To  the  list  Mb,  Batm  has  given 
of  bis  "  works  "  one  may  ba  added,  whilst  one  at 
least  must  be  subtracted  from  the  catalogue. 
Xicholion't  Noctet,  published  in  a  serial  form  in 
1843,  contained  some  clever  and  utterly  unobjec- 
tionable sketches.  With  "Bos"  he  was  never 
identified)  end  the  "slender  and  not  ill-written 
booklet "  of  The  Cigar  and  Smoker' tCompamon — 
often  reprinted  with  and  without  my  senclion 
under  a  diversity  of  titles — was  one  of  my  own 
early  effusions.  Some  fourteen  years  ago  AIb. 
BarBS  inquired  through  "  N.  &  Q."  what  autho- 
rity there  was  for  a  atalement  that  Old  Parr  had 
coloured  his  akin  by  nn  absorption  of  the  juicea 
of  tobacco.  I  may  now  tell  nim  that  I  am  re- 
sponsible for  the  assertion,  but  I  can  by  no  means 
guarantee  its  accuracy. 

It  may  be  worth  recording  that  a  high-priced 
and  high-church   newspaper  called   Tha    Crovm, 

Sublished  in  1639  at  the  present  office  of  the 
ftchanici  Magaane,  in  Fleet  Street,  was  for  aome 
time  edited  by  Kenton  Nicholson,  who  under  the 
name  of  "  Censor  "  attacked  in  The  Crovm  the 
immorality  of  The  Toicn,  and  replied  in  Th«  Town 
to  the  onalaughts  of  The  Ovwn.  The  artist  of 
7%e  Tomt  was  Archibald  Henning,  son  of  John 


Senninff  the  sculptor,  and  who  died  aged  fifty- 
nine,  July  4,  1864.    Elenlon  Nicholson  died  aged 


£.  L.  BLaNCHAKD. 


I  did  hope,  after  the  judicious  editorial  note 
(vi.  477),  we 'should  not  have  heard  any  more  of 
this  "  well-known  public  character  " ;  and  it  is 
with  great  regret  that  I  now  see  the  columns  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  used  as  the  means  of  preserving  the 
name  of  one  who  plied  a  profligate  and  prostituted 

Sen.  And  for  what  reason  F  Simply  because  the 
etails  of  "  misused  abilities,  discreditable  ad- 
ventures, and  a  generally  wasted  life,"  are  told 
"  in  a  racy  and  humorous  style."  If  the  writer 
was  a  friend  of  the  Baron  I  pity  the  writer.  If 
he  has  only  a  eacoethes  icribmtU,  induced  by  the 
"  racy  and  numorous  style,"  I  pity  "  N.  &  Q." 

Does  the  writer  know  that  "  the  once  celebrated 
weekly  serial.  The  Tojoa,"  obtained  its  popularity 
bv  invading  private  life  and  holding  up  lespect- 
able  men  to  ridicule  and  o""'  "  '"'     '' 

evil  propensities  of  their  r 

know  that  The  Toten  was  useu  ns  a  means  oi  ex- 
tortion ?  Can  he  say  that  money  was  not  paid  for 
the  euppreesion  of  articles  that  might  have  blasted 
the  peace  and  happiness  of  many  a  virtuous 
family  P  Does  the  writer  know  it  was  notorious 
that  the  degraded  being  who  aped  a  distinguished 
advocate  and  orator,  had  been  clerk  to  one  of  the 
city  companies,  and  having  been  guilty  of  fraud, 
sank  to  the  low  level  of  uttering  the  filth  and 
nastiness  that  made  the  "  Judge  and  Juiy  "  enter- 
tainment so  popular  f  Was  this  person  not  a  type 
of  aU  the  actors  that  assisted  at  those  indecent 
orgies  P  It  is  the  first  time  I  have  heard  that 
Dr.  Maginn  was  one  of  the  profligate  gang.  I 
verv  much  doubt  it,  but  as  there  is  the  writer's 
authority  for  iL  I  can  only  say  that  bad  Uraotley 
Berkeley's  bullet  taken  effect,  virtue,  morality, 
and  puuic  decency  would  have  been  benefited. 

The  writer,  "  without  respect  to  his  private 
character,"  clsjms  a  record  for  "  Benton  Nichol- 
son as  a  journalist  and  an  author."  If  the  claim 
of  the  Bwon  be  admitted,  there  was  another  con- 
temporarjr  literary  ruffian  about  whom  the  writer 
can  exercise  his  sympathy — Barnard  Gregory.  He 
was  "  racy  and  humoroua,"  hut  I  sincerely  hope 
be  will  not  be   allowed    to    be    enshiined    id 

N.  t  Q." 

The  editor  of  The  Satiriil  met  with  too  stem 

1  opponent  in  the  Duke  of  Brunswick,  who 
brought  that  "author  end  joumaliat "  to  justice, 
and  effectually  stopped  the  fount  of  hia  calumnies 
and  iniquities. 

There  was  another  celebrated  weekly  eeiial 
which  appeared  about  the  same  time — i^wJ  Ay. 
This  perhaps  may  invoke  the  writer'a  ingenuity 
to  extenuate.  Saw  the  editor  of  that  "  racy  and 
humorous"  journal  was  incarcerated  for  an  in- 


328 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[^^'•S.V^.ApBal^'71. 


fftmouB  libel  on  bis  own  relatiTS,  the  law  pro- 
ceedings of  the  time  will  show. 

Did  the  chtiracter  of  the  Buon  difler  from  these 
two  menp  What  isthere  that  heever  did  or  said 
over  which  decency  would  not  wish  to  draw  a 
veil  P  Such  periodicals  have,  I  trust,  passed  awav 
for  ever:  and  the  trials  during  the  paat  week 
show  that  there  is  a  stronger  fteliog  than  ever 
with  the  "British  Jury"  to  protect  the  sanctity 
of  pTiTate  life ;  end  a  desire  U)  teach  "journalists 
and  authors"  that  they  may  not  calumniate  with 
impunity.  Reference  to  such  papers  must  and 
ought  to  be  made  in  the  cause  of^  history  as  an 
illustration  of  the  taste  and  morale  of  a  certain 
period;  but  to  drag  into  prominence  an  unblushiiig 
BUtobtogranhy  of  a  sbamelees  life,  is  to  make 
"  N.  &  Q.  a  "  medium  "  which,  in  my  humble 
opinion,  was  never  intended  at  its  foundation. 

I  firmly  believe  that  "  joumaiists  and  authors  " 
of  the  present  day  are  of  a  much  better  stamp 
than  the  notorious  Baron,  or  woe  upon  society, 
which  is  now,  through  the  cheap  press,  addressed 
and  led  by  so  many  of  them.  Clabbt. 


WHO  IS  A  LAIRD  ? 
(4*  S.  vi.  482 ;  vii.  13, 175,  2i3.) 

C.  S.  K.  asked  whether  "every  portioner  of 
Innd  "  might  be  called  a  laird,  and  Db.  C.  Roobes 
has  replied  after  a  manner  which,  as  it  humbly 
SBema  to  us,  shows  that  he  has  given  the  subject, 
which  he  admits  to  be  "  an  interesting  one," 
nlmost  no  investigation,  for  a  greater  number  of 
misconceptions  could  hardly  have  been  announced 
in  less  space. 

Of  the  import  of  "  portioner  "  there  can  be  no 
doubt,  being  one  that  owns  a  portion,  not  the 
whole,  of  a  certain  estate,  property,  or  pendicle. 
Portionera  of  land  were  not^owever,  necessarily 
(lommi  or  lairds,  although  Db.  Roobbs  says  this 
title  was  in  process  of  time  apnlied  to  "land- 
owners crenerally."  Donmus,  lora,  and  laird  were 
no  doubt  anciently  synonymous:  so  were  the 
denominations  baron  and  freeholder,  and  in  the 
Scottish  Acts  of  Parliament  and  in  formal  wiit- 
io^s  the  two  latter  titles  were  used  indifferently 
with  the  former.  Properly,  however,  a  baron 
was  one  whose  lands  were  erected  by  the  crown 
into  a  free  barony,  with  the  jurisdiction  of  "  pit 
and  gallows  "  (cumfoisa  elft^).  Still,  although 
the  lands  were  not  thus  erected,  if  only  the  owner 
held  them  immediately  under  the  crown  or  prince, 
or,  in  other  words,  in  capiU,  by  ward  and  relief, 
or  blench  (not  in  feu-farm,  ftodi^rma),  he  was 
entitied  to  a  seat  and  vote  in  Farliament,  and 
was  on  that  account  a  veritable  dominus,  laird, 
baron,  or  freeholder.  (Act  of  1  James  L  c.  8, 
1425)  ;  Thomson's  "  Memorial  for  Cranstoun,"  in 
Case  V.  Gibson,  decided  1818.  {Fae.  RepoHt.) 

The  barons  or  Ifdrds  were,  however,  classified : 


there  were  the  greater  and  lesser  barons.  No  one 
was  a  labd  who  did  not  hold  immediately  of  the 
crown  or  prince ;  all  otheie  were  subvaesals  by 
having  a  subject  superior  interposed  between 
them  and  the  crown.  The  distinctive  title  of  this 
latter  class  was  "  goodman." 

"And  Ihia  r«in«iiibcra  me,"  says  Mr  G.  Muckenziei 
Advocate  to  Cbiliu  II.,  "that  saeh  as  did  hold  their 
Uod)  of  tbe  prim^  were  called  /ai'nJi  ;  but  such  as  held 
their  lands  of  ■  nftftef,  thonsh  thev  wen  luge  and  their 
supfiiior  very  noble,  ware  omy  called  goodnat,  trom  the 
old  French  word  bontic  Addubi,  which  was  the  title  of  the 
msister  of  the  fsnuly-'* 

Elsewhere  tiie  tame  leanied  author,  in  referring 
to  the  leseer  barons,  mentions  that  they  wwe 
commonly  called  "  lairds,"  adding  that  "alurdin 
efiectiebut  thBoormptform  of  a  lord."  {Emo^oh 
Frecedaiej/  anil  on  the  Sdatca  of  HerMrg,  edit. 
1880.)  And  Sir  G.  Mackenzie's  view  is  c«i- 
tirmed  by  the  andent  rhyme  relating  to  the  doest 
family  of  Hamilton : — 

"Dnik  Hirallton  sad  Brandon, 
Erl  Chatelrow  and  Arrtm, 
TheI.airdofliianeiil, 
The  Uudeman  of  Dnffaa." 
The  Hamiltons  ^ 


respect  of  Kinneill  on  the  Forth,  but 
only  vassals  of  the  abbots  of  Kelso  as  to  Drafoi 
and  other  lands  belonging  to  them  situate  in  the 
parish  of  Lesmabago.  The  same  distinction  of 
title  is  observed  in  many  of  the  Scotch  Acta,  but 
it  will  only  be  necaasaiy  to  mention  two  of  these, 
that  of  25  Chas.  I.  (July  24.  1644),  and  another 
passed  in  the  same  reign  of  July  2,  1646.  In  the 
tbrmer  are  named  the  following  noUemen  and 
gentlemen,  as  forming  portion  of  a  war  committee 
within  the  presbytery  of  Lanark : — 

"  The  Earl  of  Lioerk,  the  Lord  Oibirtonn,  the  Lmrd 
at  gilvertonfalU.  the  Goodmim  of  Hiffgs,  Sir  James  Hamil- 
ton of  Brometiill,  the  Goodman  of  DilMrf,  the  Goodman 
of  Raploch,  the  Laird  of  Carphia,  the  Goodman  of  AUaa- 
toD,  Baneloch,  Woodhill  Y'.  Sir  Jsmes  Somervell,  the 
Laird  of  Clelandlown,  the  Laird  of  Turrens,  the  Good- 
man of  OodgtouD  Boigis," 
and  various  others. 

One  of  the  greatest  legal  authorities  of  which 
Scotland  can  boast  (the  late  Mr.  Thomas  Thom- 
son, Advocate  and  Deputy  Clerk  Register)  has 
observed  that  by  the  original  constitution  of  the 
Scottish  Parliaments  "  every  man  of  lawful  age 
holding  his  lands  in  capite  oif  the  crown,  however 
small  his  freehold,  was  bound  to  give  suit  and 

Sesence  in  parliaments  and  general  coundls." 
snce  they  were  domini  or  lairds,  in  as  much  as 
parliaments  were  composed  only  of^  three  classaa — 
the  dignified  clergy,  the  barons,  and  commis-  ' 
Moners  of  burgha.  At  another  place  Mr.  Thomson 
says  that  the  terms  " iteeholaer "  and  "baron" 
were  synonymous. 


4*8.VII.  Apbil15,'TI.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


(Id  the  Act  apon  vhich  he  iras  commeDting)  than  iU 
r^paroU  i^onimt  baron  " ; 

and  at  the  Game  time  be  explaiua  that  "  the  term 
baron,  or  small  baron,  never  waa  applied  to  those 
whose  tenure  waa  of  thie  tort  " ;  i.  e.  waa  a  holding 
in  fett-farm  (''  Mem.  for  Cranstoun,"  suprd  :  and 
reference  is  also  made  to  Thomson's  Act*  of  P.  ,- 
Sit  G.  Mackenzie's  Obi.  on  the  i^atvtes;  the  same 
author'a  Criming  Lam ;  Hope's  Minor  Practiekt  ; 
Beicittded  Actt;  Skene.  De  Verb.  Sig. ;  Niabet'a 
Heraldry,  vol.  ii. ;  and  Seaton's  Law  and  Practice 
of  Eerabiry).  No  matter,  then,  whether  a  man's 
tsnded  estate  was  great  or  gmatl,  tie  whole  or 
a  portion  of  one  j  he  waa  not  a  lurd  if  he  did  not 
hMd  immediatelj  of  the  crown  by  ward  and  relief 
or  blench — tenures  known  both  as  military. 

Dr.  Eogebs  goea  into  the  explication  of  other 
dtlea  or  terms,  but  in  that  is  eqnally  unhappy, 
Domimu  was  given  to  the  greater  as  well  as  to 
tlie  lesser  barons,  to  knights  A  all  kinds,  and  even 
sometimes  disparagingly  to  the  clerics,  as  the 
pope's  knights ;  but  it  was  never  properly  applied 
to  gentlemen  in  g«neral.  In  the  case  of  the  areater 
barons,  or  those  ennobled,  it  always  preceded  the 
name,  and  often  also  succeeded  it  when  it  was  in- 
tended that  the  party  should  be  designed  by 
both  his  title  and  estates  or  some  leading  or~  ' 
the  latter.  As  Tegards,  however,  the  1< 
barons,  the  lairds,  or  freeholders,  even  those  of 
them  who  had  grants  of  bee  barony,  it  never  is 
fonnd  to  precede  tbmr  nunes.  bein^  used  after  them 
to  denote  that  they  were  domint,  lords,  or  lairda 
not  in  general,  but  only  of  such  a  property  named. 
For  example,  Robert  Lord  Sempill  was  called 
"Dominus  Robertue  SempiU,dominus  de  Elziots- 
toun,"  because  he  was  both  Lord  Sempill  and 
bckron  or  laird  of  Elziotstoun,  which  was  over 
many  oenturies  his  chief  residence.  If,  however, 
be  had  only  been  a  teaser  baron — a  laird — dominiu 
in  the  latter  place  alone  would  have  been  used. 

Then  as  to  "  tnastet,"  Db.  Rosers  says  that 
"  a  graduate  in  arts  was  so  styled,  and  no  other." 
But  surely  in  this  he  is  wrong.  Were  not  all  the 
beneficed  clergy  called  "  magiatrea  "  as  well  as 
the  heirs  apparent  of  the  nobles,  as  the  Master  of 
Eglintoun,  the  Master  of  Glencum,  the  Master 
of  Sempill,  kc?  And  then  as  to  the  retention 
of  territorial  dengnations,  after  disposal  of  the 
lands,  that  should  and  did  not  take  place  except 
under  some  eepecial  transaction  in  each  separate 
case,  a  few  of  which  are  known  and  could,  if  space 
had  permitted,  have  been  mentioned.  EspKnASE. 

Db.  Rooeks  seems  to  entertain  exceptional  no- 
tions on  the  subject  of  territorial  designations.  In 
my  view  a  portioner  of  church  lands  or  of  any  other 
knds,  unless  his  possession  had  subsequently  been 
erected  into  a  barony,  would  have  no  better  title 
to  the  designation  of  lurd  in  its  legal  and  re- 
stricted sense  than  woald  the  master  or  skipper 


of  a  Newcastle  coal-ship  to  the  title  of  captain. 
As  an  exception  to  this,  I  remember  indeed  the 
owner  of  a  small  thatched  cot  in  an  obscure 
Scotch  village,  whose  holding  was  divided  into 
two  compartments.  One  of  these  was  tenanted 
1^  a  neighbour,  while  in  the  other  the  owner  re- 
sided, and  followed  his  occupation,  which  was 
that  of  a  hand-loom  weaver.  This  worthy — an 
octogenarian  when  I  first  made  his  atxmaintwice — 
bad  "from  time  immemorial,''  *a  Dk.  RoexBS 
has  it,  been  dignified  by  the  villagers  with  the 
imposing  title  of  "lurd,"  although  I  fancy  this 
ia  nardlv  the  kind  of  lairdship  to  which,  in  the 
view  of  "constituting  a  sept,"  Db.  Roosbs 
amires.  The  Rev.  Db.  instances  Lord  ColviUe 
of  Cub«BB,  Sir  James  Menteth,  Bart.,  of  Close- 
bum,  Sir  John  Ogilvy,  Bart,  of  Inverquharity, 
&c.,  which  (what  woold  have  been  quite  as  much 
ta  the  purpoee)  he  might  have  supplemented 
with  Lord  Napier  of  Magdala,  whose  family  nor 
himself,  as  we  all  know,  never  had  any  interest 
in  the  country  whence  he  derives  his  title. 
Surely  Db.  Rooebs  can  distinguish  between 
titles  of  nobility  and  baronetcy  granted  by  patent 
to  a  man  and  his  heirs  for  ever,  and  the  equivocal 
designation  accruing  to  a  mere  portioner  of  land 
in  virtue  of  his  ^agmentary  poasession.  Mr. 
Campbell  of  Zslay^  to  the  end  of  his  life  was  con- 
ventionally so  designated,  but  after  the  alienation 
of  his  estate  would  not  have  been  described  "of 
Islav"  in  any  legal  instrument,  nor  has  his  son  the 
smallest  claim  to  the  title.  If,  then,  the  objection 
holds  as  regards  this  once  princely  proprietor,  by 
what  rule  does  the  "representative,  real  or  sup- 
posed, of  an  obscure  "portioner"  claim  exemp- 
tion P 

Db.  Rosebs  is  scarcely  more  fortunate  in  regard 
to  the  title  "Master,"  which  he  tells  us  had  an 
academic  origin.  Dr.  Jamieson  derives  this  from 
a  Gothic  word  meaning  "landholder."  Does  not 
Da.  RoSERs'e  statements  as  regards  the  Inver- 
quharity property  admit  of  some  modification  P  Is 
not  Sir 'John  at  this  moment  in  possession  of  the 
messuage  and  old  castle  of  InTerquhantv  ?  Ds. 
RoaEKs  does  not  appear  to  have  been  lately  in 
commnnicatioQ  with  his  "relative." 

W.  Bbiitib. 

The  Rbv.  Db.  Roobbs  states  that  the  Grange, 
or  Home  Farm  of  the  abbey  of  Coupar,  was  at 
one  time  divided  amongst  "twelve  lay  iroproprie- 
tors"  or  portioners,  and  from  the  statdstieol  ac- 
counts and  elsewhere  we  learn  that  each  of  these 
Krtions  changed  hands  veir  frequently.  If  Db. 
>oiiBS  has  a  rieht  to  the  titular  dedgnation  "of 
Coupar- Grange,'  the  descendants  of  these  number- 
less proprietors  would  have  all  an  equal  claim  to 
the  title ;  and  should  his  pretensions  stdr  the  am- 
bition of  a  tithe  of  the  Scotehmen  who  are  able  to^  i  C 
claim  descent  equally  noble,  the  probabili^  ia' 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [i^S-ViL  Anui.ifi.7i. 


that  rety  soon  thoae  actual];  in  poaaeanon  of  pro- 
peitj  would  dieuM  entiiely  the  ''territoml  dewg- 
oatJon,"  and  that  "  of "  would  be  understood  as 
the  equivaleat  of  "  off  "  in  the  tease  of  "  at  a  du- 
tance  from.'' 

Culrosa,  Cloaebum,  &&,  are  pencoal  titlea 
granted  hj  the  eoTereini  to  the  individuftls  and 
heiis  male  of  their  bodiea  in  the  line  of  piimo- 
geniture,  and  of  which  they  cannot  he  depriTod 
except  by  forfeiture.  C.  8.  S. 


Low 


)   BBOUOHAU    i-KD    Has.  NlQHTINaALE'S 

Tomb  (4"  S.  tu.  277.)— The  story  of  a  nocturnal 
visit  to  Westminster  Abbey,  in  the  Autofnoffn^hy 
of  Lord  Brongham,  in  which  he  representa  his 
father  to  have  besD  one  of  the  actors,  may  be 
found  in  a  work  entitled  ApparitiooB,  or  the  Mys- 
tery of  GhoiU,  Hobgoblin*,  and  Haimted  Hotaeg, 
deveioped,  bv  Joseph  Taylor;  3nd  ed.  London, 
1815.  It  i^urs  at  pp.  46^60,  and  is  headed 
"  Remarkable  Listance  of  the  Power  of  Imagin- 
ation." No  inrormatioD  is  given  of  the  source 
whence  Taylor  derived  thia  story,  but  the  inci- 
dents are  said  to  have  occurred  on  the  occa^on  of 
the  interment  of  Queen  Caroline  (the  consort  of 
George  II.,  which  took  place  on  Saturday  evening, 
November  28, 1787.) 

A  wager  was  laid  among  a  party  of  five  or  Kx 
gentlemen,  who  had  been  dining  together  at  a 
tavern,  that  one  of  the  par^  ^ould  at  midnight 
enter  the  abbey  alone  and  go  down  into  the  royal 
vault,  and  as  a  proof  that  he  had  done  so  should 
stick  his  penknife  into  the  floor  of  the  vault  and 
leave  it  there.  The  verger  was  bribed  to  obtain 
admittance,  and  the  result  was  similar  to  that 
described  by  Lord  Brougham  —  the  adventuier 
was  found  in  a  funting  fit  at  the  bottom  of  the 
stairs  leading  into  the  vault,  with  the  penknife 
stuck  thiouKO  the  tail  of  his  coat. 

Some  reader  of  '■  N.  &  Q."  may  perhaps  trace 
this  anecdote  to  its  original  source.  E.  V. 

Mrs.  Nightingdo  died  Aug.  17, 1731,  not  1734, 
and  was  buried  in  Westminster  PMaej  on  the 
26th  of  the  same  month.  This  makes  the  case 
still  stronger  agunst  Lord  Brougham,  aa  the  date 
is  detxit  instead  of  ^U  years  Wore  his  father 
was  bom. 

There  are  other  points  in  the  atory  equally  in- 
digestible. If  it  were  posuble  for  a  party  of  gay 
youny  men  to  walk  unmolested  into  the  abbey  at 
midmght,  and  if  it  were  tiie  custom  to  leave  open 
graves  at  that  period,  my  study  of  the  history  of 
the  abbey  for  the  last  seven  years  has  been  a 
fulure.  Lady  Nightingale,  according  to  the 
abbey  records,  was  buried  in  a  vault,  whidi  was 
probably  hermetically  closed  immediately  after 
hei  interment,  and  not  re-opened  until  the  burial 
of  her  husband  in  17S2. 

JosBFH  Levvel  Cbestek. 


Frabeb:  Fbibbl  (4*^  S.  Tii.  fiS,  179.)— Freael 
or  fVaMer  seems  to  have  been  indWerentiy  used 
by  this  ancient  family  till  about  the  close  of  the 
thirteenlh  century,  when  the  latter  became  the 
more  common  form.  In  the  Origina  Parochiaies 
Scotia  (i.  203-6)  there  vrill  be  found  some  in- 
teresting notices,  drawn  up,  I  believe,  by  the  late 
£r.  Joseph  Robertson,  who  gives  his  authorities, 
among  which  the  "  Battle  Abbey  Roll "  is  c«r- 
tMnly  not  numbered.  The  shire  of  Peebles,  of 
which  they  ware  sheriff,  seems  to  have  been  the 
first  settlement  of  the  Frasers  in  Scotland.  Their 
arms,  the  three  fraiaes,  are  quartered  by  the 
Flemings  of  Bigg^  and  the  Ilays  of  Yestar,  who 
acquired  them  with  the  two  co-heiressea  of  the 
patriotic  Sir  Simon,  executed  by  Edward  I.  The 
Kniohi  Of  MoRAB  says,  "  they  may  be  eeen  on 
the  ancient  cross  of  Peebles."  Can  he  tetl  us 
where  this  relic  is  now  to  be  found  P 

Dr.  Robert  Chambers,  writing  in  1837,  says 
that— 

"  the  dser's  head,  the  Frsssr  creat,  wu  lately  visible  on 
the  arohway  of  their  castle"  [of  Seidpmth],  lacl  alno 
"  carved  OQ  the  croaa  of  Peebles,  a  caiioua  pillii  npring- 
ing  from  an  octagon  of  masonwoik,  aboot  tbe  centre  of 
'     '  'hich,  for  reasons  inexplicable,  b 

etn  yeart  ago  tro"   '^'    ''      '  ~'' 
rtiire  a/'  Scotland,  i. 

It  is  to  be  feared  that,  as  the  "  Haly  Rud  of 
Peblis,"  by  which  its  ancient  burghers  swore,  is 
among  the  things  of  the  past,  so  is  its  Market 
Cross  sacrificed,  like  that  of  many  a  Scottish 
bui^h,  to  "  improvementa." 

The  mention  of  "  the  last  of  the  French  Fraiers, 
the  Marquis  de  la  FrezsliSre,"  reminds  me  of  a 
curious  account  (evidently  legendary  in  the  his- 
torian's opinion)  given  by  U.  Michel  in  his  trulv 
valuable  work,  Zei  Ecotiai»  «n  Friaux,  i.  60.  It 
is  there  stated  that  Sir  Simon  Eraser,  tbe  heau~ 
ph-e  of  Gilbert  Hay,  retired  to  France  after  the 
defeat  of  Bruce  by  Edward  I.,  and  founded  the 
family  of  "  Frezeau  or  Frigel  de  ta  Frezeliflro." 
The  knight  is  also  credited  vrith  being  one  of  tbo 
ancestors  of  the  "  Hays  of  Normandie."  So  far 
&om  this  being  true,  it  is  undoubted  that  the 
gallant  Scotsman's  head  was  then  set  up  on 
London  Bridge.  While  the  "French  Frasers" 
and  "Hays  of  Normsndie"  were  more  likely  to 
be  the  ancestors  of  those  of  Scotland,  at  least  to 
be  credited  with  this  distinction. 

A2f6L0-SC0TC8, 

Bows  iUD  CufiTSBTs  (4*  S.  vi.  568;  vji.  108, 
220.)— In  reply  to  E.  V.,  I  beg  to  say  that  the  ex- 
presaion  he  refers  to  in  Oen.  xli.  43  will  not  suit 
his  purpose.  The  meaning  of  the  orinnsl  word 
is  very  uncertain.  Various  explanations  have  been 
proposed,  but  the  most  probable  is  that  it  was  an 
Egyptian  title  of  honour  conferred  on  Joseph,  but 
the  exact  meaning  of  which  has  not  been  ascer- 
tained.   All  schcdars,  I  believe,  are  ngreed  that 


*»8.V1I.  Aprii16,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


the  EDglish  Temon  is  wioDg,  both  text  and 
margin.  .  T.  K  T. 

EdinbQTgli. 

SieniABT  AND  SlOKATABIBS  (4""  3.  Tl.  502  : 

tU. 44, 176. )—Makbocbeik writes :  "Mr. Trench 
will  find  tigniOory  in  Ricbardaon."  I  confess 
mTself  UDsble  so  to  do,  and'hope  that  I  nm  not 
careless  or  inaccurate  in  making  this  remaric.  Mj 
edition  is  186G.  As  a  prudent  man,  I  avoid  the 
"  uniTeiaal  negatiTe,"  but  do  not  thmk  it  is  there. 
Fbascis  Tbskch. 
lalip  RectoiT. 

Sigmiary  is  a  barbarous  word ;  but  lignatary  is 
a  peifactly  good  word,  beiof;  an  Englisli  form  of 
the  French  nffniOaire.  Thos.  AnsTur,  JuH. 

Hitcbio. 

SAiiFLERa  (4'»  S.  Ti.  600;  vii.  21,  126,  220, 
273.) — I  enclose  another  specimen  of  the  land  of 
seotijuent  worked  on  eamplers  in  the  early  part  of 
this  century  (1804) :  — 

"  Tdl  me,  ye  kDOwirg  and  discerning  few. 
Where  I  may  flnij  h  friend  both  Hnn  «nd  tniB, 
Who  dsm  stand  by  me  when  in  d(ep  dialivae. 
And  then  hit  love  and  fiieadahip  moat  axprese  ?  " 
W.  tt 
Ngwcutle-en*Tyne; 

As  a  sampler  in  our  possesion  is  older  tban 
those  described  by  your  correspondents,  perhaps 
(though  unfinished)  you  may  think  it  worth  a 
note.  It  ia  handsomely  worked  in  silk  on  coarse 
orange- coloured  linen ;  but  looks  a  confused  mass, 
&om  the  letters  being  in  diSerent  colours,  prin- 
cipally in  capitak  and  arranged  to  fit  the  spaces, 
BO  that  you  must  spell  it  over  to  find  what  the 
words  are — each  word  being  divided  from  the 
next  by  a  cross  of  five  stitches  x .  At  the  top  of 
the  sampler  is—"  Hannah  Tanner,  May  the  29, 
1710."  Under  the  centre  of  this,  ia  a  crown  be- 
tween two  coroneta;  below  the  crown,  " S.QR"i 
bom  this  descends  a  kind  of  wsTed  oral,  within 
which  is — 

"  Christ  wu  the  wonf  that  speak  it, 
He  took  the  bread  and  break  it, 
And  for  that  word  did  make  it, 
That  I  believe  and  take  iL" 

'Wthin  the  OTSl  (reeling  on  the  veise)  are  two 
larger  crowns  of  different  patterns:  under  the 
right-hand  one  is  D,  under  that  to  the  left  is  Bf. 
Below  the  verse  is  a  much  larger  crown,  but  the 
space  round  it  is  emp^,  though  a  single  letter 
begun  shows  it  was  to  have  been  filled  in.  The 
oval  is  double,  and  between  the  lines  are  larger 
letters,  the  same  on  both  aides,  though  reversed. 
Theyare"F.h:L.I.P.N.t.V.>."  Have 
they  any  meaningf  Projecting  from  the  outer 
line  of  tne  oval,  in  each  comer,  are  two  diamonds 
crossed  by  squares,  containing  I,  H,  T,  7,  reversed 
at  the  bottom  of  the  sampler:  next  to  these  is  an 
oval,  containing  something  like  an  acora,  and  an 
empty  triangle  in  the  middle — in  all,  fourteen 


[irqjectiona.  In  the  apacea  left  by  these,  capital 
etters  are  arranged  as  in  the  middle,  which  form 
thisvwse:— 

"  See,  rriead,  how  fast  the  yean  do  fly. 
The  time  will  come  when  y oa  and  1  most  die. 

The  world  farweU " 

The  rest  is  wanting.  I  have  omitted  to  say  that 
each  line  of  letters  is  divided  from  the  next  by  a 
row  of  eyelet  holes. 

We  have  another  sampler  worked  by  a  fiiend 
of  my  mother's,  containing  eeveral  alplubets,  be- 
low which  is  the  couplet:  — 

"  Honor  and  ehame  from  no  condition  riao. 
Act  well  your  part,  there  all  the  honor  lies." 

L.C.R. 
ESbes  (4*^  S.  vii.  03,  226.)— It  is  a  singula! 
drcumstance  that  writers  who  lived  in  or  cbse 
upon  the  time  of  Uarcus  Aurelius,  as  for  instance 
Luciao  *  and  Diogenes  Laertius  and  Tertullian,t 
should  none  of  them  speak  of  Kebes  as  a  cotem- 
porary,  but  evidently  as  one  long  before  their 
time,  AS  far-famed  and  of  a  world-wide  reputation. 
Such  fiune  and  such  reputation  is  not  usually  the 
growth  of  a  generation,  as  in  this  case  it  must 
have  been,  if,  as  ia  assumed,  Kebea  lived  and 
wrote  in  the  reign  of  Aurelius.  Ludan  lived 
in  this  reign,  and  died  a.s.  180,  ten  years  before 
the  emperor;  Diogenes  Laertius  probaUyin  the 
latter  part  of  it,  aa  be  died  a-d.  222.  Ilie  same 
may  be  said  of  Tertullian,  as  he  was  a  Father  of 
the  second  century. 

What  each  of  these  has  said  of  Kebes  may  be 
found  by  turning  to  the  references  here  given — 
Lucian,  De  Mtrceda  Cunductii ;  Diogenes  Laertius, 
lib.  II.  c.  126 ;  Tertullian,  De  PnxKriptione,  c.  S9. 
Luciao'a  words  are  clearly  retrospective,  i  KJe-rit 
inim,  IE.  T.  A.,  and  the  whole  passage,  the  closing 
one  of  this  trtnldse,  is,  to  my  mind,  evidence  more 
than  presumptive  that  Kebes  was  no  cotemporary 
of  Lucian. 

I  am  aware  of  the  objectioas  which  have  been 
raised  agdnat  the  anthentidfy  of  the  piece  in 
question,  but  see  no  force  in  them,  nor  yet  any  in 
tbe  chai^  of  its  being  "cooked"  or  "borrowed 

Scnntum."  nt  hII  avnntn  frcnn   ' 


•  This  writer  contnuta  lUbea  with  Sophoclea  and 
Eniipida,  who  twth  flanriahed  in  the  same  century  u 
K6bea  the  Theban. 

t  IH^enes,  in  hia  Uvea  of  the  ancient  philosapherr, 
placM  Kibes  amongst  the  intimate  frieodt  and  aaaodatea 
of  Socrates,  as  Criti^  Simon,  Simmiaa,  Menedemni,  and 
PIiCo.    (See  the  Phado.)    He  also  mentioDB  hia  three 

elecca,  Uirsi,  ■EBiiiai,  and  *^nxat.  AU  thla  ia  quite 
icoDsistmt  with  the  suppoaition  that  KCbea  was  a  con- 
temporary or  lived  ao  near  hia  own  time.  The  placing 
his  name  immediately  after  that  of  Simmiaa  ia  very  ob- 
aervable,  as  these  two  took  ittch  a  prominent  part  la  the  i 
dlaloffoe  of  Phado,  and  a—  "— "-  — ->-—  -'  --  '"■-->- — 
yotbmg  contd  ahow  a 
of  Diogenea  ai  to  the  i 
tioityofhijinltlngs. 


nent  part  la  the   • 
I  of  as  Tbebana.  1   r* 
waa  the  opinlonS 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  i*»  s.  tii.  apml  is,  71. 


Thb  Block  Books  U'^  S.  a.  pamn ;  tu.  13, 

161,  217.) — At  piMent  I  stand  upon  mj  arUdeB 
in  the  Ecdeaiohgist  and  Building  Ntwi,  &c  upon 
Mb.  HoLT'e  eeya«l  aagertdoos.  I  we  no  good  in 
his  present  chftileage  any  more  dian  I  dio  in  his 
mare's  neat  of  nimbuses  and  emblenu.  When 
his  book  oomeg  out  will  be  the  time  for  ezamin- 
ine  his  ofunious.  I  for  one  expect  much  valuable 
iniormattoD,  and  trust  he  will  htve  giTOa  np 
seToral  untenable  positions.  J.  C.  J. 

Pateohhuc Prkmce  "Mac"  (4*  S. -ri.  330; 
vii.  220.) — A  Middle  Templak  might  among 
other  names  have  added  McOscar,  McCaskill,  Mac- 
Hitteric,  MacUtter.*  ArmBtrong  mentions  Mac 
an  Lmn  as  "  the  name  of  Fingal'e  sword,  so  called 
from  its  maker  Xuiio,  an  aimouter  of  Scandi- 

But  these  names  do  not  prove  anything,  unless 
the  owners  bwught  them  from  Scandinavia.  It 
would  seem  probable,  however,  that  the  prefix 
"  Mac  "  is  of  Gothic,  or,  at  all  events,  of  Teutonic 
origin.    In  confirmation  compare — 

QothiC'-nit^iM,  Tiuer,knabe,W»'iiF;  thiamagtu, 


,  diener,  knecht 


guia,  puerulus 


nagalht,   puella,  ir<vMi 
'1,  junglrausctiBft;  ma- 
blein ;  magan,  konnen, 


8u.-Gothic  and  Isl. — make,  sodas,  parj  Dan. 
mage. 

Ang.-Saiott— maca,  mat&i,  meca,  id.  (semaca, 
maea,  gemacca,  gemtca :  D.  makker,  a  mate,  equal, 
companion,  wife.  Bosworth),  macg,  mej?,  a  man.t 

Old  Ger, — mag  (Francic,  ffimah),  natura;  mag, 
parena,  filiua,  eonj  unctua,  cognatus,  conj  ux,  puar, 
famulus,  par,  aimilis,  (equalia;  Francic,  maga-zogo 
(Teut.  eog,  log ;  Qr.  ray-A,'^,  rector  pueritise.t 

In  Luke  ii.  43,  tui,  which  Beza  renders  pita; 
is  in  the  Gothic  version  »nayu»;  and  in  John  vi.  9, 
■wiilpiaF,  which  Beza  renders  puervlut,  is  in  the 
Gothic  version  magula,  Pughe,  however,  derives 
the  Welsh  Tnaccwy,  a  jouth,  a  page,  from  mag,  the 
act  of  rearing,  bringing  up,  or  educating ;  rearing, 
education,  nurture.  K.  S.  Charnoce. 

Qrsy'a  Inn. 

BrihshSgyihbd  Chariots  (4'*  S.  vii.  95, 240.) 
In  «N.  &  Q."  4"'  8.  i.  414,  I  asked  whether  the 
posribilitf  of  a  scvthed  chariot  as  an  ofTendve 
weapon  had  ever  been  discussed,  I  received  no 
answer,  and  inferred  that  on  examuiation  the 
vehicle  and  it^  uses  seemed  too  absurd  for  serious 
consideration.  Histoiians  a«  trust  worthy  as 
Ridiard  of  Cirencester  repeat  the  story  of  the 
Trojan  horse.  They  were  not  at  the  uega  nor  bo 
at  tne  battles;  and  bed  they  beui,  liieii  testimony 
would  not  avul  to  prove  what  could  not  be. 

O.  D.  Qob.  H.  B.  C. 


X  Conf.  Wschter,  alio  SchUtenu, 


It  may  be  open  to  argument  wheth^  the 
Britons  used  or  md  not  use  chariots  with  scythes 
Attached  to  their  wheels,  but  it  cert^nly  is  not 
fair  to  quote  Richard  of  Cirencester  in  the  con- 
troversy. A  lawyer  might  as  well  cite  the  comic 
BUckstone  in  the  Court  of  Queen's  Bench,  as  aa 
ontdquary  put  the  /also  Bichard  in  evidence  in 
the  pages  of  "  N.  &  Q."  If  any  one  in  England 
has  yet  a  shred  of  £aith  left  in  Charles  Julius 
Bertram's  forgery,  let  him  read  and  ponder  well 
upon  the  preface  to  vol.  ii.  of  the  brue  lUchard  of 
Cirencester's  Spetvbaa  Siatoriale,  edited  by  Mr. 
John  E.  B.  Mayor,  M.A.  Edwabd  Peacock. 
Bott«sfoid  Minor,  Brigg. 

8HBEBW0ET  (4*  S.  vi.  502 ;  viL  25,  161,  244.) 
I  believe  I  can  now  Batisfy  Mb.  Bkittkh  as  to 
this  plant  It  is  the  Arabit,  or  wall-crass,  called 
by  Withering  "Turkey  pod"  {Tetradgttamia  siU- 
quota).  I  had  a  strong  sus[udon  that  this  was 
the  plant;  and  on  mv  taking  a  smoU  piece  from 
my  own  g^den  to  show  to  the  Dorsetshire  man 
meutioDed  in  a  farmer  communication,  he  at  once 
aud,  "That  is  itbai  we  call  thaenoort."  Its  some- 
what hot  and  pungent  teste  has  led  to  its  use  in 
saloda,  especially  by  the  gypaes,  F.  C.  H, 

A  Murithian. 

"  Tbodbb  uht  to  S  loaT,  to  Mkxoby  deab  " 
(1"  8.  iv. ;  3"^  vi.  viii.  ;  4"-  3.  i.  iv.  pauim;  vii. 
66,  173,  244.)— The  line  quoted  by  Mb.  Sjtini 
at  the  last  reference  appears  in  Pope  s  "  Epistle  to 
Robert  Earl  of  Oiford  "  (1721),  but  is  not  quite 
correclij  ^veu.  The  passage  from  which  it  is 
taken  runs  thus:— 

"  Atmnt  or  dsad,  still  let  a  friend  be  dear, 
(A  sigh  the  atiMot  claims,  the  dead  ■  lear)" 

H.  F.  T. 

My  object  at  present  is  to  certify  that  with 
respect  to  the  line— 

"  The  abunt  claims  a  aigh — Ihe  dead,  a  tear," 

I  have  been  familiar  with  it  for  magy  years,  and 

have  seen  it  conoected  with  other  lines  in  scraps 

of  poetry,  but  never  with  the  line — 

"  Thongb  lost  to  »igbl,"  &c. 

F.C.H. 
Ov  THE  Title  or  Einq  ob  Qijeek  of  Man 
(4*  S.  vii.  349.)— Me.  William  Habbibon,  in 
his  very  intereatmg  note,  omits  to  mention  Mac 
Mania,  who  woa  Oovemor  of  the  Isle  of  Man, 
arc  1098,  and  who  in  that  year  founded  a  Cis- 
terdan  abbey  at  Huahen  in  the  island — a  founda- 
tion which  continued  for  some  time  after  the 
geoeial  suppression  of  the  monastic  houses  in 
England.  Mac  Manis  was  probably  a  member  of 
the  powerful  and  diatinguished  sept  of  the  Mac 
Monuses,  whose  head  was  descended  from  the 
andent  Kings  of  Connaught,  and  whose  strong- 
hold and  home  was  at  BaUy  Mac  Manus,  ooiv 


** s.  TIL  AnuT.  15,71.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


333 


called  Bellisle,  an  island  in  Lough  Enie,  CO. 
FeimniMigh.  Charlb«  Sothekah. 

6,  Hudaw  Stnet,  Hoai-slda|  near  MuwhcaWi. 

Db  Sayb  OB  Sat  (4*  S.  Tii.  123,  272,)— Eub- 
tachia  de  8av,  in  the  reign  of  Uenrj  II.,  built 
and  endowed  at  Westwood,  in  the  county  of 
Worcester,  a  FonteTjauld  nunnery,  which  vaa 
granted  30  Hem?  VIII.  to  John  Pakington. 

"I^beU,  d.  and  cobeii  of  S'  Wm,  Saje," 
married  at  a  veiy  early  date  "  Bobert  Harbottell 
of  Baeingthorpe,  in  Com'  Lincon.,"  the  great- 
frrandaon  of  "S'  Widyard  Hatbottle  of  Com' 
Northnmbland,  Enight,"  who  was  ihe  great- 
great-ffTeat-grandsiHi  of  "  Boger  Harbottell,  Lord 
ofHarbottell,  t«»ii.  H.I."  Ttdle  "The  Harbottell 
Pedigree  "  in  The  Visiiatim  of  RutUmd,  1018-9, 

rbhshed  bj  the  Harleian  tjoaetv.  "  Wini&ide, 
of  Franda  Say  of  Wilbj,  in  Cfom'  North'ton," 
was  the  wife  of  "  Kenelme  Cheselden  of  Upping- 
]iam,"  whose  grandson  Eeaelme  waa  aged  fifteen 
in  1618.  Vide  "The  Cheaelden  Pedigree"  in 
aame  Vintalion. 

Hie  arms  of  Saj  are  the  fourth  quart«riog  on 
Ibe  Harbottell  shield  in  Harl.  MS.  1668,  and  a 
"  Per  pale  azure  and  gules,  three  cheTTODB 
with  aa  many  conped  and  couDterchaDged." 

Charies  Sotheean. 

6,  Meadow  Street,  H(»»,«ide,  near  MuiehMtcr. 

HAitPDEN  Famtlt  (4"'  S.  vii.  188,  273.)  —I 
posseasad  ao  autograpb  letter  of  John  Uauipden 
(of  the  signature  to  which  I  enclose  jou  a  tracing), 
which  was  lent  for  eibibitioa  at  the  Crystal 
Palace,  and  unfortunatel;  destroyed  in  the  fire 
which  took  place  some  few  years  ago.  The  name 
is  usoallv  smiled  with  n  p,  and  was  so  in  my 
antograph.    Jt  is  also  so  spelled  in  a  letter  (en- 

gared  from  an  original)  nt  vol.  i.  p.  160  of  the 
ta  Lord  Nugent's  Memorialt  of  Hampden, 

Fbxdebick  Geobgk  Lke. 

6,  Lambeth  Tcnsce. 

GuBOT  AND  QniSB  (4""  S.  Tii.  142,  270.)— 

"  Guttol,  gw&d,  or  gU-&d.* 

"  ■  (iVbte.)  So  prononnced  by  M.  Golzot  himsdr,  u 
Mated  in  a  letter  frnm  him,  now  before  ui.  He  sayi, 
•  Dans  moD  paya  lulal,  la  rlUe  da  Nimn,  nn  prononca 
man  nom  ghl-zo.  A.  Paris  on  dit  ea  gijiini  gist-to  t  et 
ja  eroi>  cette  pranonclatian  plos  oorrecle.' 
•  "  A  near  reUtiTe,  hoirerei,  of  Che  great  Francb  hislorian 
and  sUtennan  takes  adUfereat  Tiew  of  Che  qDeation,  He 
Hfs  the  name  of  his  family  it  alwayi  pronoauced  ghl-io 
in  the  uuth  of  Fiance,  where  the  nante  originated ;  aod 
be  mainCaine,  with  gntt  appearance  of  leaaon,  ChaC  the 
inrariable  luage  of  cbe  people  of  Nioiea  oogbC  to  be  de- 
drife  aa  Co  the  pronnndatioD  of  um  nom  Ximoii." — Pru- 
■nueiw  DictiBnary  of  Biography,  tc.  By  J.  Tboinaa, 
AM.,  H.D,  PhUadelpbia,  1870.  {i.  d.) 

Tbos.  Stewakdsdit,  Jb. 
C.  C.  says,  "It  is  true  that  among  the  edu- 
cated rlnnnrn  in  Paris  the  first  name  is  pronotmced 
(as  we   should   say])   Qvie«-zo,  and   the    latter 
Gh«m."    Now,  M  this  true  as  regards  Omuf  I 


five  edifioD 


was  tansht  by  a  Frencbnum  angularly  accorate 
and  fastidious  about  his  language,  that  Gui  in 
Guue  formed  an  exception  to  the  rule  governing 
the  Bound  of  tit,  and  tiiat  the  historical  family  of 
Onise  ought  to  be^called  Gteeeae.  J,  Dixoir. 

Thbvehib'  "Gbtte  Hbrbaix  "  (4"'  8.  Tii.  162, 
268.)— Who  was  Treveris?  There  seems  to  be  - 
but  little  trustworthy  evidence  on  this  point 
PritEel  (TilMams  lAtenUura  Botamca,  p.  341) 
informs  us  that  in  the  Catalogue  of  the  Oxford 
library  the  GreU  BerbaU  is  attributed  to  a  Jere- 
mi^  Treveris,  professor  at  the  University  of 
Iiourain ;  but  Meyer,  in  his  OetchicMe  der  Boianik 
(vol.  iv.  b.  XT.),  maiatains  that  this  is  an  error, 
and  Uiat  the  mistake  probably  arose  from  the 
similarity  of  the  piofeBSor'a  name  with  that  of  the 
publisher  of  the  herbaL 

Meyer  aaya  of  the  book  r — 

"England  waa  ainteDt.for  a  long  time,  ta atnd; planta 
in  tcaaalatiDiu  from,  or  imiutione  of  French  and  Dutch 
worta.  The  earlieeC  book  on  the  sabject.  Ihe  Grtte 
RtrhaB,  waa  flnt  pablished  (according  to  Fultenej)  io 

by  Pfll*r  Treveris,  and  aflerwardapoEBed  throogb 

llfiona,  ID  1626,  1529,  1539,  and  1561,  wiCb  wood- 
and  in  1551,  wichont  woodcuts.  PuUeney  beUeves 
iC  to'  have  been  fabricaCed,  with  alterations,  from  a  French 
truulation  of  the  Ortti  SamtalU,  printed  in  Paris  by 
Caron  in  1199 ;  bnC  tliis  cannoC  be,  aa  Caron  pablished  no 
such  tranalation,  bnC  a  different  though,  eimilsi  work, 
Le  grout  Httbitr  «  f  roapjyi.' " 

Pritzel  makes  no  allu^on  to  the  ediUtms,  either 
of  1616  or  1561,  and  states,  in  Mf»osition  to  Pul- 
tmey,  that  those  of  1530  and  1661  are  vnthimt 
woodcytt.  The  hist  lines  of  the  book  an:  "Thus 
endeth  the  grete  herball.  which  is  tianslftted  out 
of  ^Dsshe  in  to  Engljsshe." 

If  Mb.  Jambs  Bbiiten  could  refer  U>  a  oop^ 
of  the  Grde  Herball,  and  would  send  me  *  bu 
address,  we  might  be  able  to  decide  whether  it 
and  the  GraU  Htrbier  above  alluded  to  (a  copy 
of  which  is  at  my  disposal)  are  not  one  and  the 
same  work :  and  also,  perhaps,  whether  the  Gnxnt 
Htrbier  was  not  made  out  of  the  Ortut  Samttaii. 
H.C. 

The  PuifT  LntewA  Aksbkis  (4*  8.  vii.  162, 
294,)— I  can  find  nothing,  in  my  old  botanical 
authorities,  with  a  diagnosis  answering  to  Treveris' 
description.  The  only  plant  named  "goose- 
tongue  "  is  the  AcM&sa  Ptanaitxi  (Priw,  Popvler 
"aBuiofSnt.PlaiiU,p.m.) 

Palaaum  ^tporu.- This  would  appear  to  be  the 
a^taroffut,  for  in  the  index  to  Parkinson's  Tkeatr* 
o/rianU  1  find  "Paladum  leporu,  i.  Soite/tut  tevii 
vulgarit. — Ctetalpino,  %.  A^iaragut  ^heM»." 

Bnusela. 

CmmcHES  wiTHiw  Rokaji  Camps  (3^  8.  v. 
vi.  vii.  viii.  ii.  i.pamm;  4"  S.  viL  24.)— In.^     .  ^ 

,  72;  line  "&']« '£bi8 


NOTES  AND  QDERIES. 


[*'*  S.  VII.  Amul  16, 'TL 


San^tookfor  Laiia,  TS..  A.  Lower,  under  the  head 
"  Church  of  St.  John  Sub  Castro,"  u  thia  aen- 

"  Whila  Id  the  chnrebi'ird  the  rUtDr'i  atlcntloD  taaj 
be  called  to  the  cnriana  net,  that  it  aecnpUflput  at  the 
site  of  «  yerjr  gmall  camp,  auppoaed  to  be  Baman,  tha 
vallom  of  which  mar  ■■iU  ^  traced." 

A  note  aaja :  — 

**  SeTsral  coini  of  the  Imperial  era  bare  bean  foond 

L.C.R. 

Likes  oh  thb  Hukak  Ear  (4'"  8.  vii.  236.) — 
The  "Philoaopher  and  hia  Duigbter"  appeared 
in  the  ^umdie  Joumni  for  June  26,  1853,  where 
it  waa  given  as  an  extract  Irom  the  lUtutraUd 
News,  but  at  what  time  it  appeared  in  the  latter 
periodical  I  am  not  aware.  If  E.  L.  wiahea  a 
traoscript  of  the  poem,  I  shall  be  happy  to  supply 
one  if  he  will  communicate  his  wish  to  me. 

WnjJAH  E.  A.  Axon. 

JoTDBan  Street,  Straogvvaj-a. 

BiLHD  OP  LutT  Fbbbbbs  (4"  S.  Tii.  809.)— 
What  ballad  ia  it  P  The  date  (1611)  implies  that 
it  is  some  modem  compoaition.  I  shall  be  glad 
to  have  further  particulars. 

Jaxex  Henrt  Dixoh. 


Bishop  Axcock,  cirea  1466  (4"'  E 


i.  122.)— 


1  (not  a  chevroui 
heads  erased  sable,  combed  and  wattled  gulea.  a 
mitre  or;  sometimee  within  a  bordure  gules 
charged  with  eight  crowne  or.  Ortd:  On  a  coro- 
net...  acock  .. .  (saeClive'e  JtforcAwfl/JToiM; 
Bedford's  BUaon  of  EpUcopacg ;  Nash's  Httlory 
of  Worcederthire;  Berry's  Encudopesdia  Serai- 
^  ^.)  H.  S.  O. 

Ajute  (CHiPMiiT)  KniOHTLBT  (4*  S.  vii.  234.) 
It  is  to  be  feared  that  the  note  appended  to  this 
query  may  prevent  C.  D.  C.  from  getting  an 
answer,  as  it  implies  a  doubt  of  the  eiiatance  of 
the  lady  whose  husband  is  inquired  for.  The 
pedigree  of  Chapman  in  Burke  and  other  baron- 
atagea  is  very  imperfect.  A  fuller  pedigree,  with 
the  proofs  from  wills  and  registers,  is  printed  in 
Part  I.  of  Howard's  MonlAfy  Mucelt.  OateaL, 
from  which  it  appears  that  Sir  John  Chapman 
had  two  wives.    Bv  the  first  he  bad  Anne,  the 

wife  of Knigntley;  by  the  second  he  bad 

two  sons,  and  the  two  daughters  mentioned  in  the 
note.  Sir  John  Chapman  died  in  his  mayoralty, 
March  17,  1688-fl  (not  on  May  7,  1737).  The 
Circnmstancea  of  his  iUness  and  death  are  gra- 
phically described  by  Lord  Hacaulay  in  bia 
Sittory  of  England;  but,  with  chancteristic 
inability  to  tell  a  plain  story  in  a  plain  way, 
Uacaulay  omits  horn  his  narrative  the  name  of 
the  person  abont  whom  he  u  writing.     Txwabs. 

Thb  Oldest  Ihus  nr  Eitblaitd  (4>^  8.  vi.  G06 ; 
vii.  267.)— One  of  these  "oldest  inns"  may  be 


found  in  Philip's  Norton,  Somerset  I  fotget  tha 
Rgn  by  which  it  is  distineiiiahed,  but  it  stands  at 
the  top  of  the  hilt  on  which  the  village  is  situate. 

May  I  suggest  that  it  mig'ht  be  quite  worth 
while,  as  bemg  likely  to  pay  its  expenses  as  well 
as  for  aatiquanau  reasons,  to  take  photographB  of 
these  "  oldeat  inns  "  and  publish  them.  1  would 
also  su^rgest  that  the  same  might  be  done  with 
OUT  ancient  manor  houses.  In  another  half  cen- 
tury, the  present  rage  for  improvement  (P)  and 
pulling  down  will,  most  probably,  hava  swept 
away  all  traces  of  these  precious  relics  of  our 
domestic  architecture.  W.  M.  H.  C. 

ScEMA :  SCErt  (4.^  8.  vii.  260.)— As  a  probable 
help  to  the  solutdon  of  his  difficulty,  1  would 
recommend  to  your  correspondent  Uxops  a  care- 
ful study  of  the  Doric  and  j^iUc  dialects-  For 
these,  says  the  author  of  the  Port  Soyat  Oram' 

"have  been  almost  entirely  followed  by  the  Latlu; 
Iniomach  that,  ir  the  wiitlnga  of  thow  who  uaed  tUa 
dialect  (j£otfc)  had  been  transmitted  down  to  as,  we 
ehonld  iii  all  appearanoa  discover  therein  ■  very  graat 
agraement  with  the  Latin,  not  onlj  with  ragird  to  the 
worda,  bat  moreovac  with  reapect  to  the  phrue." 

Edmund  Tbw,  M.A, 

Patdilng  Rectory,  Amndel. 

MiOFS  will,  I  hope,  fordve  me  for  saviog  that 
his  query  appean  to  be  in  Keeping  with  bis  name, 
short-sighted. 

1.  As  the  Romans  got  most  of  their  dramatic 
literature  at  second-hand  from  the  Greeks,  they 
naturally  adopted  many  of  their  dramatic  terms 
from  the  Greek ;  e.  g.  tragcedia,  comrtdia,  cotluir- 
ntw,  fj/rma,  ^e.  Seena,  which  at  first  they  seemed 
inclined  to  spell  Ktcna,  is  one  of  these.  Myops 
may,  therefore,  teat  assured  that  a<nirfi  is  the 

2.  This  word,  taken  from  the  Greek  a  declen- 
sion, the  Latins  placed  of  course  in  their  own 
first  or  a  declension,  in  which  the  termination  is 
invariably  a  short  They  treated  scvno,  in  fact, 
as  they  did  tona  ffrom  i^rn)  and  many  other  like 
words.  The  ezplanadon  of  the  short  Latin  a 
lies  in  the  fondness  of  that  language  for  abbrevia- 
tion. See  on  the  whole  subject  I>analdson's  New 
Cratylm,  chap,  is.,  ed.  1800. 

J.  II.  L  Oaklbt,  M.A.- 

Ciojdon. 

PoKnun  or  Cakbron  or  Lochirl  (4"  8.  Tii. 
257.) — Bromley,  in  his  Catalogue  of  Eagrwnd 
Brituh  Portraitt,  1703  (p.  313),  makes  mention  of 
a  portrait  of  Donald  Cameron  "  wfaole-lensth,  in 
a  Higblaod  dress,"  but  omits  the  names  of  artist 
and  engraver.  O.  M.  T. 

Hambsvcxeh  (4>i>  S.  vii.  S67)— (from  Saxon 
Hamaoctn) — is  the  liberty  or  privilege  of  a  man's 
own  bouse ;  also,  a  franchise  granted  to  lorda  of 
manors,  whercbv  they  hold  pleas  and  take  cog- 
nisance of  the  Dreacn  wid  violation  of  that  im- 


4* S.VU.  April  15,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


335 


tnuericoidiffl  intratdonis 
injusto"  (.Fle<a,lib.  Leap.  47).  In  Scotland  viola- 
tions  of  tbu  Mnd  are  equallj  puniahable  witH 
rape  (Skene)  i  and  "  our  old  records  express  bur- 
alary  under  the  word  hamtoene''  (Jitcob,  Law 
Dia.)  O.  M.  T. 

This  word  surely  was  not  "entirely  uohnown 
ia  a  specific  sense  in  the  law  of  England,"  and  it 
"appears"  explained,  and  with  its  derivation 
^Ten,  in  m&ny  dictionaries  or  treatises,  tbongh 
-variously  spelt :  «.  cr,  it  appears  (1)  in  N.  Bailey, 
8to,  17S5 ;  (2)  in  Ash,  8vo,  1776 ;  (8)  in  Jacob's 
Xatc  Diclionary,  fol.,  1786  j  (4)  in  Cunningbam's 
ZawDictionaty,  fol.,  1771 ;  (5)  in  Cowell'e  Inter- 
preter, London,  small  4to,  1637,  in  two  places; 
(6)  in  Selden's  Fleta,  London,  4to,  1647,  lib.  I. 
cap.  47,  $  18,  p.  68 ;  (7)  in  Bracton,  quot«d  by 
Cowell  [lib.  in.  tract  S,  c.  23],  where  it  is  thus 
defined — "  Hometokea  dicitur  invasio  domue  con- 
tra pacem  domini  regis."  Cunningham  quotes 
also  a  charter  of  donation  b^  Kin^  Edmund  to 
the  church  of  Olastonbuiy,  m  wbich  he  grants 
amongst  other  privileges,  "Burgberith  .  .  .  . 
infangtbeofas,  hamiocne,  et  fridebrice,"  &c ;  and 
other  instances  most  likely  are  to  be  found  in 
andent  writers  and  in  charters.  It  was  in  fact 
the  old  word  to  express  burglary,  which  has 
snperseded  it;  but,  as  CoweU  thin^  it  also  ex- 
pressed a  franchise  or  privilege  "granted  by  the 
king  to  some  common  person,"  whereby  he  took 
cognizance  of  and  puniuied  such  a  trausgresuon 
of  the  law.  E.A.  D. 

SbillingatoDC  Bectory. 

In  Blount's  Law  Didionary  (by  Nelson,  1717) 
it  is  said :  — 

"  HOMESOKER  (or  HavuAai) — Tram  Sax.  Ami,  L  e. 
dovno,  hiibitalio,  and  (ooe,  ItbirUa,  inmiaatia — is  the 
privilrge  or  freedom  whicb  every  nuc  ba»  in  his  iiouiw  i 
and  bs  wbo  invades  that  freedom  is  properlr  uid  factre 
homaokm.  Ttiii  ia  what  I  take  to  be  dov  called  Btu^tary, 
wtiieh  ia  a  crime  of  a  very  beinoos  nstnre,  because  it  is 
not  only  a  breach  of  the  lUng'a  peace,  but  a  breach  of 
that  liberty  wbich  a  man  hath  in  hii  bonac^  wbich  we 
cmnmonly  aay  ■honld  be  hia  cattle,  and  therefore  ought 
not  to  be  invaded.— BracIOD,  lib.  in.  tncC  9,  cap.  23 ; 
Dneanc*-" 

KV. 


lish  calendar  is  the  same  person  as  St  'Wulfran, 
Archbishop  of  Sens.  I  did  not  always  think  so, 
and  in  my  EngliA  Church  Furwiwe  (p.  88)  have 
given  a  note,  in  which  I  state  that  Qrantbam 
church  is  dedicated  to  the  archbiahop.  A  shrine 
called  '*  Senct  Wulffrsm  shryne  "  existed  at  that 
place  till  the  year  1666 ;  and  OervEuse  Hollis 
states,  on  the  authority  of  Leiand,  that  St.  Wul- 
fran was  buried  there.  Unless  this  is  b  mistake, 
arising  from  the  chorcb  possessing  some  of  his 


relics,  we  must  conclude  that  there  are  two  Wul- 
frans  honoured  by  canonization,  for  certainly  the 
Archbishop  of  Sensdid  not  find  sepulture  in  Eng- 
land. If  the  St  Wuliran  of  the  English  calendar 
is  the  same  person  as  the  French  archbishop,  it  ia 
ringular  that  he  appears  in  our  old  calendars  aa 
bishop  only.  The  calendar  of  the  "  Black  Book  " 
of  the  recNpt  of  the  Exchequer,  as  published  by 
Hr.  J.  J.  Bond  in  his  Hand-BoiA  of  S«lt»  and 
Tablet  far  verifying  Date*,  gives — 

»  Wnlfran  Arcblep.  Har.  SO. 

"  Wiilfran  Ep.  et  Conf.  Oct  IS." 

An  early  fifteenth- canturv  calendar  in  mr  pos- 
session, once  the  property  of  the  funily  of  Fairfax 
of  Deeping  Oale,  does  not  contain  the  archbishop, 
but  under  October  16  we  have  "  Sci  Wlfranni  ep. 
&,  conf," 

Is  itnotposnhle  that  onrEnglisbsaintmaj  have 
been  some  holy  Englishman  of  early  days  who 
became  a  bishop  in  heathen  lands,  and  returning 
home  to  die,  has  been  forgotten  except  in  his 
native  land  P  Edward  Peacock. 

Bottesfoid  Haaor,  Brigg. 

Stedmait  Familt  (4*  S.  vii.  269.)  —  Mb. 
HxTBEKT  Skith  Inquires  as  to  the  whereabouts  of 
a  MS.  which  was  printed  lat'b^Genthman'tMaga- 
ane  of  Not.  1840,  p.  492,  and  which  I  communi- 
cated to  that  periodical  under  the  iDitials"E,P.S," 
The  MS.  ia  still  in  my  library,  but  it  is  evidently 
but  a  portion  of  a  much  longer  account,  and  has 
been  mutilated,  thoueh  the  writing,  which  is  of 
the  period,  is  easy  to  oe  read.  The  whole  of  the 
fragments  in  my  possession  were  printed  in  the 
Qentleman'l  Magaane.  Ev.  Ph.  ShIBLET. 

Lower  Eatington  Park,  Stratfoid-OD-Avon. 

Oeobcr  Loitdox  (4'^  S.  vii.  S36.)— Has  your 
correspondent  seen  the  following  lines  in  Felton's 
PoriraUi  of  Engliih  Auihore  on  Qardtniig,  ^., 
8to,  1830,  p.40P— 

"No  moDDment  has,  I  believe,  been  erected  to  Ur. 
London'i  memoiy.  .  .  .  Nor  can  1  find  out  even  when  he 
vaa  bom  or  burled.  If  oee  eonld  oblaiu  a  resembluice  of 
him,  one  b<^>ea  hia  picture  or  hta  boat  may  not  deserve 
the  censnre  of  oar  noble  poet" 

On  p.  39  be  states  that  London  "  died  towards 
Christmas  in  the  year  1713."  W.  P. 


Mi*ttTlimtttitt. 
KOTKS  OM  BOOKS.  ETC. 
DeterMiit  Calalojpu of  Waltriali  rtlaliwio  (Ac  HitUirg 
of  Grail  Brilain  and  Irtlaml,  to  Iht  hM  of  tht  Rtign 
ofHtKiy  VII.    iy  Sir  Thomas  DuffuaHarfy.D.CL., 
Deputy-Keeper  of  ibe  Public  RecordB,    (Longmaas.) 
If  tUlre  cannot  be  two  opinions  aa  to  tbe  value  and 
importance  of  a  work  which  should  give  foil  and  trust- 
worthy notices  of  tbe  fountains  of  our  national  history, 
as  little  can  there  be  that  tbe  accomplisbed  echolar,  who 
was  aelected  on  tbe  death  of  tbe  late  Ur.  Fetrie  to  oom- 
pleU  the  Motmmntia  BiiloTica  Britaratiea,  ia  the  one 
e»>ecial)y  fltted  to  uodartake  the  great  and  onerous  duty 
of  compiling  a  deacrlptive  cstalDgne  of  the  autluin  M 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'*3.VII.  APEn.lS,7L 


these  oii^nal  irorka  and  tha  MSS,  In  vhich  they  are  to 
be  found.  Could  wy  doubt  h«ve  existed,  it  woulil  have 
be«n  dispelled  bj  tnoM  portions  or  Sir  Tbomaa  Hirdy'i 
Daeriptitit  Oattdoyut  (Jo\  I.  and  Vol.  II,  Parts  I.  and 
II.).  Wiuch  have  ^ready  appeared ;  no  less  than  b;  the 
third  TOlume  which  is  now  before  ns.  What  an  im- 
porlant  aid  the  book  will  prove  to  (indents  of  Er 
Idstory,  Is  made  patent  bj  the  feet,  that  the  third  vc 
alone  contains  nolieen  of  nesrij  seven  hundred  diff^nt 
works,  soma  nventaen  fac-rimiks  lUuitratlve  of  the 
vexed  question  as  to  the  handwriting  of  Matthew  Paris, 
and  a  preface  of  nearly  one  hundred  pages,  in  which  Sir 
Thomas  presents  as  inter  o/ui  with  some  most  Interesting 
pictures  of  so  much  of  monastic  life  as  relates  to  the 
compilation  of  chronicles  in  monastoies.  This  prehca 
will  well  repay  perusal  by  the  general  reader. 


t  of  their  varina  Shada  nf  Meaning, 
tiota  of  thtir  Uiaga  and  SpiBinlUi€t,  lllmtraUd  bf 
Qaotatioiit  from  Standard  Writtri.  Sy  C.  J.  Smitb, 
MJt..,  Christ  Chnrcb,  Oxford,  Ticar  of  Eritb,  Ac. 
(Bell  &  Daldy.) 

Much  aa  has  already  been  written  on  English  Sy- 
nonyniB,  there  is  yet  room,  as  Mr.  Smith  believes,  for  ■ 
new  book  on  the  subject,  written  in  sonie  respects  from 
fresh  points  of  view,  and  of  a  fuller  character  than  the 
narrow  limits  in  which  such  works  are  commonlv  con- 
fined. We  ccmmend  the  book  before  ns  to  those  who  are 
interested  in  precision  of  languaf^e— a  thine  mach  to  be 
desired.  We  bad  hoped  it  would  hare  solved  oar  cor- 
respondent M.  A.  B.'s  query  (anfe.p.  S'25)  as  to  the  words 
"  Wink"  and  "Blink,''  but  must  wait  for  that  second 
edition  of  it,  which  may  reasonably  be  anticipated  for  a 
book  of  this  character. 


ffi 


UHivaBsiTY  OF  LojiDON.— Mr.  Julian  Goldsmid 
~U.P.  for  Bocbester),  who  is  a  Master  of  Arts  of  the 
rsity  of  London,  has  Just  made  his  Univeniity  a 
nannsome  present  of  lOOOf..  to  be  paid  in  anniul  Inual- 
ments  dislribnledover  ten  years,  towards  the  formation 
of  a  good  Classical  Library  in  the  New  Building.  The 
Senate  have  accepted  the  offer,  with  a  hearty  acknow- 
ledgment of  its  ^eroeity;  and  a  Committee  has  al- 
ready been  appointed  to  begin  the  agreeable  task  of 
fonrnng  a  ClMsical  Library.  We  trust  Mr.  Goldsmid's 
generosity  may  be  infectious.  Would  it  be  impossible, 
by  the  way,  to  secnre  for  the  Universiiy  the  late  Pro- 
fessor De  Morgan's  uciqae  Mathematical  Library,  which 
probably  contains  the  most  curious  collection  of  books  on 
the  History  of  Mathematics  to  be  found  in  England  ? 
'The  value  of  this  collection  is  besides  greatly  enhanced 
by  Mr.  De  Morgan's  own  nnmerous  and  characteristic 
annotations.  Whether  the  Library  is  to  be  disposed  of 
or  not,  we  do  not  at  present  knAw ;  but  if  it  could  be 
obtained,  there  would  be  a  special  fitness  in  securing  it 
for  the  University  of  London,  which  would  then  have  a 
raaily  good  start  towards  the  formation  of  a  fine  Classical 
and  SaenUflo  Library.— SfKc/o(or. 

Thk  Peel  collection  of  pictures,  lately  purchased  for 
the  National  Galleiy,  has  been  removed  to  the  building 
in  Trafalgar  Square,  and  will  shortly  be  exhibited  there. 
Among  them  will  be  foand  Wilkie's  well-known,  "  John 
Knox  preaching  before  Mary  Queen  of  Scot<^  which, 
says  the  Athrrueum,  will  be  one  of  the  most  popular  of 


A  Philological  Sooiett  has  been  formed  In'Cim- 
bridge,  coasisting  of  the  following  membere:—Proft«ois 
Cowell,  Kennsdv,  and  Munro;  Mr.  W.  G.  Cli4  ssd 
Mr.  Jebb,  of  TrinitVi  Mr.  F.  A.  Pslev,  Mr.  J.  E.  B. 
Mayor,  and  Mr.  J.  E.  Sandvs,  of  St.  John'si  Mr.W.  ff. 
Skeat  and  Mr.  John  Peilo  of  Christ's;  and  Mr.  Pemdl, 
Of  JesDs  College.  The  societv  limits  ilaelf  to  the  In- 
guagea  and  literatnres  of  the  Indo-European  family,  b 
there  bas  been  for  some  time  back  a  "  Hebrew  Sodetv," 
which  would  not  readily  amalgamate  with  the  aodetyii 

Trb  Univereily  of  Cracow  Is  pablisbbig  its  origiul 
documents  (Corfu  Z>Miima(icw)  from  the  year  of  lU 

foundation,  13E4,  to  the  present  day,  in  five  volmiHa. 
The  first  reaches  to  1440.  The  slmKgls  betwera  the 
Germanand  Polish  elements  in  this  Univenity  is  note- 
worthy, as  also  the  part  plai-ed  by  the  Jews.  Our  own 
Universities  might  follow  the  example  of  Craoow  with 
advantage,  and  a  good  b^tnning  was  isada  by  AnitiT') 
Mmimala  Academioa. 

Mr.  T.  O.  Stbtkhsos,  of  Edinborgh,  is  reprinting  hi 
a  vwy  limited  impresdon  chiefly  for  subscribers,  "Satan's 
Invisible  Worlddiscovered, by  George  Sinclar,"  Profmnr 
of  Philosophy  and  Mathematics  in  the  Universty  of 
GlasKOW,  from  the  original  edition  published  at  Edinburgh 
in  1685,  with  a  Bibliographical  Notice,  &c. 

Thobb  who  are  interested  in  Ceramic  Art,  may  be  glad 
to  have  their  attention  called  to  a  work  by  J.  Hoadov, 
entitled,  "  Hiatoire  da  la  Ci!ramiqne-LillcnM  pi^c^dte  'it 
documents  in^dita  cooatatant  la  fabrication  de  camau 
peints  et  rimailMs  en  Flandre  et  en  Artois  an  qoatonifciM 


BOOKS    AND    ODD    VOLUMES 
W1»IBD  TO  PUXCHASE. 

^artknlan  oTPrtn.  u..  at  Uh  Mlowlna  bMki  to  btmtdtitclh 

lumiB'e  BioaaiPBHiii.  HinonT. 

.7. 2>r0|t^Arrg.  4.  Copers  Cope  Road,  Sfv 


WuUdferibeAic.J 


fiatlai  to  Cnrci^mnttmU. 


N.  &  Q." . 


■s  i"  S.  vi 


.  470,  5 


The  Red  Cross  Kjiioiit. — Brittain's  Ida  ti  tiqrpoKd 

~~     ~  "  wriHen  hv  Phxjaai  mcker. 

triltain's  Ida  ?  tatictd  iy  « 


by  Mr.  C™. 

Srt  kit  aiay  Who  wrol 

A.  X.  E.— JJyce'i  or  (*(  Cambridgt. 
C,  B.  T.— ifas  oiir  CorTapondtHt  a»mittd  Mr.  JA- 
pihFt  article  on  "  Wnn  "  la  At  Lut  tdOion oftheEu- 
<7lopiBdia  Britanniea? 

J.  E.  (Dnrham.)-TB  for  the.  T%e  Y  U  a  printir-, 
nblHtxtifor  ttie  Saxon  or  old  EogliiA  th.  On  tbe  tteamg 
Old  derinttion  o/Ampers  and  (&)  Ibere  are  nalta  than 
,lne  articlei  in  our  1"  S.  il.  SSO,  S84,  818 ;  vU.  173,  W, 
!54,  327,  376,  624  ;  is.  43. 

T.  McGrath.— Apollo's  Cabinet;  or,  the  Hoses' D»- 
Ight,  1756,  atwtUai  The  Mnses'  Ddight,  17M,  an  Mk 
noticed  in  Bohn'M  Lownde^  art.  "  Simgi,"  p.  244S.  Tit 
'titer  aorkatHeler'iudentdfarit. 
ERKATnii.~4<a  S.  vL  p.  169,  col.  i.  Uno  84, /b»- "  Jdta 
'.  M.  Doraaion  "  read  "  John  F.  H.  IMvailo^^  -\  o  I  f  > 


*»a.TU.  ApiU£.a2.-71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


337 


APRIL  II,  i«n. 


CONTBNTS.— N"  173. 
-lalvofths  8irfliu,UT  — TbsDiteofrbauoer'i 


Oeoersl  BnnoTae  on  Lnd  PiJmei 

"ThB  Bolliid''  — SippU'i  Cap;of  „.t,._,_ 

tanalck "  —  B«bbi-Inf  Houssi.  or  Noon  HouMa—     

Dnam  of  HoIt  Mary    —  Prencli  Wood-pigeona  drlon  by 

tlu  W>r  K>  EdbUdiI  — "  GmtlnDBO  ot  Iba  Pireownt,'^ 


prmDUDced  —  Jouim  BapC 
loHa  "  —  BMuebtmp  —  Rev. 


SntMTOI 


HoDthi— Gnnthwn  lonSiicna 

—  Buoa  Di  Bvuuur— "UcMMer  dn  BcieuOM  et  dM 
ArU"  — OldFuDllia  witbouECiut  Armour— Fortuguesfl 
Copper  ColD— E*rly  QuMDs  oT  Bootluid  —  Roke9%  tbe 
8pie«— Sto»-iii-the-Wcdi,  no.  OJouoeaier  —  Tetngonal  In- 
■ori^ition  —  Tu)gMe.  k..Ti.  1S18  —  Wkllliiuiitlinl  Plriih 
I*nd — "  WiUy  w  FUmtnlu*  PlucuB  "  —  The  Zodiw,  U!. 

BBPLIES:-The  Complelton  of  SI.  Piul'i  C>tb«dn1.3U 

—  Oidcn  of  KniKhlhood,  SM  — Tin  Bookmrni.  MB  — 
Onsin  or  the  Sumaois  Cuniiiii(h>iD.  S4}  —  fiMnarj 
DHd  M  Fuper*!!.  S4S  —  Xngliih  Ueweiil  of  Dmoiel  O'Coii' 
nelt.Me— CharvtarorCoMlintiDO!  Tivchite  —  Bkudet'i 
""■■■■"       "■  ■    •■'riBoiiofillhBDi"-ThB 

-ReinirlulileCLock- Ely- 

„   ..      _»Per»onml  NMH-"AsCjril  »uil 

flMluui"  ~  Ecatatia;  tbe  "EiCMifm"  of  Caldwa  — 
B«r^  Eu«  — SkedaddU  — BUlop  I'ulkr  — Lord  B/ron'a 
-D„.»...  »._.,  p,  ...  —  A  scripsii,  or  Cbristmaa  I'lLtn- 


Jllb  Bard)."  Ac. 


■Eiullib  B 
acrddlc  or 


Nam  ou  Books.  Ac. 


ISLES  OF  THE  SIREKS. 

I  coald  Bcarcelj  be  in  the  neigbfwurhood  of 
Naples  without  paying  a  visit  to  the  celebrated 
uUads  of  the  Sirana  ("  Insulte  Sirenuaoe  "),  which 
later  geographers  have  placed  on  the  north  side 
of  the  Bay  of  Salerno,  about  ten  miles  from 
.\malfi.  It  is  Homer  (Oi  xii.  30,  &c.)  that  first 
aings  of  these  mythical  beings ;  and,  according-  to 
the  poet,  UlysBeB  in  bis  wanderinoij  through  tbe 
Mediterranean,  when  he  approached  the  island,  on 
tlie  lovely  beach  of  which  the  Sirens  were  sitting, 
by  tbe  advice  of  Circe,  stuffed  the  ears  of  bis 
companions  with  wax,  and  tied  himself  to  tbe 
mast  of  the  vessel,  that  they  might  not  be  eUured 
to  land  bf  their  melodious  singing.  If  tbe  islands- 
still  continue  in  tbe  same  state  that  they  were  in 
ancient  times,  it  is  ditficult  to  understand  how 
they  should  have  been  selected  as  the  residence  of 
these  fur  ladies.  The^  are  three  rocky  islets, 
now  called  I  Oalli,  being  a  little  more  than  a 
mile  from  the  ahore,  without  herbage,  treeless, 
and  even  destitute  of  water. 

I  approached  them  from  Sorento,  the  birth- 
place of  Tnwo,  crossing  the  ridge  that  runs  down 
ia  the  point  opposite  to  the  isluid  Capri,  and 
deaoenduig  by  a  night  of  steps  to  Scaritojo.  This 
ridge  Lb  known  to  Ovid  (Mtt  xv.  710)  as  "  Sur- 
lentini  Colles,"  and  produced  what  was  conndered 
bj  the  •ncienta  as  excellent  wine.    The  i ' 


lie  together  in  a  kind  of  drcle,  and  along  witb 
two  sharp-pointed  rocks,  are  of  the  same  mineta- 
logical  stmcture  as  the  neighbouring  continent. 
The  largest  islet,  colled  Isola  Lungs,  about  half  a 
mite  in  circumference,  is  situated  to  the  ensC  of 
theemalier  ones.  There  is  no  regular  lauding- 
place,  so  that  you  have  to  climb  up  a  precipitous 
rock  of  nearly  one  hundred  feet.  You  then  find 
Touiself  on  a  rugged  ridge,  and  on  proceeding  a 
little  to  the  south  you  come  upon  a  level  piece  a( 

fvund,  where  the  remuns  of  buildings  are  seen, 
his  plot  of  ground  is  about  twenty  yards  in 
breadth  and  sixty  in  length.  There  is  a  vault 
remaining,  which  seems  to  have  been  added  to 
some  older  edifice,  and  tbe  bricks  are  of  the  same 
kind  as  are  found  in  Roman  buildings;  so  that 
I  have  little  donbt  that  this  was  the  site  of 
some  ancient  villa,  though  in  summer  it  must 
have  been  nearly  uninhabitable  from  tbe  heat 
The  extreme  southern  point  is  entirely  rock,  and 
never  had  any  building-  upon  it  On  the  highest 
point  there  is  an  old  tower,  to  which  there  is  nowno 
entrance,  but  by  dint  of  ecrambli^  T  uinnived  to 
get  in  at  one  of  the  windows.  Two  halt'-niined 
rooms  are  all  that  now  remain.  On  thu  western 
part  of  the  island  ^ou  £nd  a  small  part  of  a  build- 
ing, and  around  it  a  few  bumt-up  plants  and 
flowers,  but  treesdo  not  seem  ever  to  have  existed 
on  it.  I  then  rowed  to  the  higher  of  tbe  other 
two,  called  II  Castelletto,  which  lies  about  a  qun  "- 
ter  of  a  mile  distant,  and  ascended  to  a  tower  bv 
a  regular  road:  it  looks  like  a  carriage-rosd,  vhich 
had  never  been  finished,  as  you  mount  the  last 
forty  feet  by  steps.  This  is  evidently  a  medieval 
building,  and  we  know  from  history  that  it  was 
used  as  a  state  prison  by  the  republic  of  Amalfi, 
where  they  confined  their  doges  when  they  had 
become  intolerable  by  their  tyranny.  Rowing  to 
the  most  southerly  islsnd,  Isola  Rotonda,  I 
scrambled  to  the  highest  point :  it  is  much  more 
level  and  better  adapted  for  building  than  either 
of  the  other  two,  yet  there  b  not  the  slightest 
vestige  of  an  edifice  of  any  description.  Such  is 
the  present  appearance  of  the  celebrated  Islands 
ckT  tbe  Sirens ;  ihir  of  them  bold  and  picturesque, 
the  other  two  of  a  tame  and  uninteresting  cna- 
racter. 
Vir^  i^H.  V.  864)  speaks  of  them  in  the  fol- 

"  JamqiiB  adeo  aenpalos  Sirenam  advecti  aabibet. 
DISciks  qaondam,  multontoique  ostibaa  albo.s 
Turn  rauca  uaiduo  longs  oala  aax&  ■ooabuit.'' 

During  summer  they  must  always  be  subject 
to  intense  heat,  as  thev  are  sheltered  by  the  lofty 
ridge  of  St  Angelo  team  every  wind  except  the 
aouth  and  west 

These,  however,  are  not  the  only  isUnde  thai 
have  had  tbe  honour  of  being  connected  with  the 
name  of  the  Sirens.    I  once  found  myself  on  the  i 
oppoeita  peninsula  to  the  sonth  of  the  Bay  of  I C 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


l4"S.VlI.AFiitLj»,'71. 


Sftlemo,  and  had  climbed  to  the  bigbest  peak  of 
UouQt  Stella  in  search  of  the  ruina  of  Petilia. 
Aa  I  reached  the  {umiacle,  the  ran  was  approach- 
iog  the  sen  horizon,  and  died  a  golden  ligot  over 
the  pred{ritoas  ahote  beneath,  and  there  I  looked 
down  on  an  iatet,  now  Licoea,  the  ancient  Leu- 
C7«in.  Jt  ahone  like  gold  ^m  the  refracted  raja 
of  the  aim,  and  1  could  believe  woold  be  a  plea- 
auit  reaidenoe,  aa  it  atanda  out  into  tbe  aea  aooat 
a  quarter  of  a  mile  from  the  mainland,  and  eatchea 
the  breeie  from  whatever  directjon  it  blows. 
Strabo  (ri.  S52)  saje  that  it  derived  ita  name  from 
one  of  the  Sirena  who  had  perished  here.  I 
heard  afterwarda  that  both  on  the  island  and  on 
the  land  around  the  promontoiT  there  are  re- 
inaioa  of  ancient  buildings,  ana  I  con  readily 
believe  it  to  have  been  a  fiivoiirite  residence  for 
the  wealthy  Romans.  On  every  pleasant  spot  as 
I  travelled  to  the  south  I  found  traces  of  the 
Jtomana,  who  hod  in  imperial  times  the  same  love 
of  the  "dulce  far  niente"  that  the  Neapolitans 
have  inherited  troia  them. 

Again :  on  the  coast  of  Calabria,  two  hundred 
miles  south  of  this  spot,  I  came  upon  another 
ialet,  known  to  the  andenta  as  Ligeia,  which  was 
also  regarded  as  an  island  of  the  Sirens.  It  ia 
found  ^Mut  a  mile  from  the  ahore  in  the  Oulf  of 
Terina,  and  is  now  called  Pietra  de  la  Nave.  It 
ia  a  mere  rock,  and  I  was  told  by  an  intelligent 
IceDtleman,  Don  Michele  Prodda,  who  had  a  large 
property  in  Calabria,  and  apent  the  summer  very 
pleasantly  on  thesborectoee  to  the  ruins  of  Terina, 
ibat  there  are  no  remains  of  buildings  upon  the 
rock.  Cbaupuko  Tin  Rahasb. 


THE  DATE  OP  CHAUCEK-S  BIRTH. 

The  Sotarday  SevieiB^  of  April  IS  contuns  an 

article  which,  relating  as  it  does  to  one  of  the 


the 

Some  thirty-five  or  forty  years  ainee,  when  a 
few  encouraging  words  from  that  distinguished 
(tntiquary,  my  ever  kind  friend  Mr.  Douce, 
nwakened  in  me  the  ambition  (long  since  extin- 
iruished)  of  connecting  my  name  with  the  Can- 
ttrbmy  Tatti — those  marvellous  pictures  of  social 
]ife  in  England  in  the  fourteenth  century— I  took 
uonsidemble  pains  to  examine  the  question  whether 
Chaucer  was  bom  in  1828,  aa  generally  believed 
"  from  some  inscription  on  his  tombatflne,"  to  nae 
the  words  of  Tyrwhitt,  or  about  1346,  as  recorded 
in  the  report  of  bis  evidence  in  the  groat  Scrope 
and  Qroavenor  controversy. 

As  the  coDclosion  at  which  I  arrived  was  in 
TaTonr  of  the  earlier  date,  and  consequently  the 
laveree  of  that  of  the  Aafw-tJny  fieviewer,  I  trust 


the  colnmns  of  "  N.  &  Q,"  may  not  be  cc 
wBstefuIly  occupied  by  a  note  on  the  subject  for 
the  conaideration  of  any  future  biographer  cf 
Chaucer. 

In  matters  of  this  nature  tradition  is  of  no 
slight  authority ;  and  for  four  hundred  years  tiv 
dition  baa  coincided  with  the  statement  tbil 
Chauoer  died  in  1400  at  the  age  of  aeven^-t»o. 
It  WHS  not  until  1808,  when  Gkidwin  pnbliahed 
his  life  of  the  poet,  and  in  it  Chaucer's  asporitioD 
made  at  Westminster  in  October  1386  io  tbe 
Scrope  and  Qroavenor  controversy,  in  which  doon- 
ment  it  ia  aaii  that  he  "  was  of  the  age  of  forty  and 
upwards,''  and  "  bad  been  armed  twen^-aerea 
jreara,"  that  any  doubt  arose  upon  tbe  aal^ect 

If  this  new  evidence  could  be  trusted,  it  would 
make  Chaucer's  age  at  hie  death  about  fifty-two 
instead  of  aevenW,  and. his  entry  into  muitaiy 
service  at  about  tnirteen. 

As  it  ia  admitted  that  there  certainlj  are  erroia 
as  to  tbe  ages  of  other  witnesses  in  thia  matter,  I 
venture  to  think  that  there  ia  a  very  palpable 
error  in  the  case  of  Chauoer. 

That  a  man  who  died  at  or  about  fiftr-two  yein 
of  age  ahould  in  one  of  hb  poems,  "  The  Cuekow 
and  the  Nightingale,"  descrioe  himself  as  "olds  ud 
onlusty,"  IS  not  what  one  would  expect.  While 
Spenser,  whose  intenae  edminiiion  of  Cbsuen'' 
geniua  must  undoubtedly  have  led  him  to  iaquna 
mto  the  circumstances  of  his  life,  &c.,  wouU 
scarcely  write  of  him,  bad  he  died  at  the  eailiai 
«ge,aa 

"  Old  Dm  GeSVey  (in  whoM  gentla  Iprinft 
The  pure  irell-hcM  orpoeliy  did  dwell)." 
And  these  are  instances,  be  it  remembered,  which 
might  be  greatly  multiplied. 

Moreover,  is  not  this  theory  of  the  death  of 
Chaucer  at  this  early  8p:e  contraaicted  by  Ocdeve's 
well-known  and  striking  portrait;  as  well  as  by 
Green's  description  of  him,  probably  derived  fiom 
tradition,  inwhich  he  apeaka  of  Chaucer's."  nl'sr 
haires  both  bright  and  sheen,"  and  adds,  "ii' 
beard  was  white  "  ? 

Again :  from  his  earliest  bti^rapher,  Leiand,  lo 
one  of  the  latest  of  bis  editors,  Mr.  Wright,  all  bsvo 
concurred  in  speaking  of  Chaucer  as  a  sc)|olai: 
"  He  was  certainly,"  says  Mr.  Wright,  "  a  man  of 
extensive  learning,  and  had  tbe  education  of  a 
gentleman." 

But  if  he  "  was  armed  "  at  thirteen,  or  there- 
about, how  and  where  was  be  to  acquire  this 
learning  F  What  becomea  of  his  residence  at 
Oxford  or  Cambridge,  or  at  any  Inn  of  ConrtP 

These  are  difficulties  which  may  well  cause  some 
hesitation  in  receiving  implicitiy  tbe  statements 
which  Chaucer  is  eujipoeed  to  have  made.  As,  <m 
tiie  other  hand,  this  record  ia  inconnalcnt  with 
all  that  has  hitherto  been  received  and  believed 
with  respect  to  the  poet's  age,  is  it  poariUs  to 
reconcile  the  two  statementaF    Pf)^>ni'>^^ 


4*8.TU.  Apbii.22,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


(tnuoktiOD  of  the  puaa^,  not  io  a  tranaliitioD,  but 
OS  it  stenda  in  tbe  orisinBl,  mar  help  us. 

The  passage  wiiich  has  raiaed  all  this  coil  about 
the  date  of  Chaucer's  birth  nms  aa  follova.  Hy 
transcript  is,  no  doubt,  suffituentlj  accurate; 
tbough,  it  haviDg  been  nude  so  man;  veart  since, 
I  cannot  apeak  very  pomtivelj.  In  the  essen^ 
points  I  know  it  is. 

It  Till  be  seen,  in  the  first  place,  that  Chaucer 
doee  not  himself  aaj  that  he  is  "fortj  and  up- 
waids."  That  is  recorded  of  him,  and  not  de- 
clared b;  him ;  but  let  that  pass :  — 

"  QeSnj  Chaucere,  Esquier,  del  a^  de  xl.  ana 
et  plus,  ormeex  par  xxvij  ana,  produiC  &c." 

Porbape  tbe  aight  of  this  entrf  will  suggest  to 
tbe  reader,  as  it  did  to  me,  what  is  a  very  eas; 
soludon  of  the  difficulty.  It  requires  the  mere 
transposition  of  tico  letters.  The  age  is  recorded 
not  in  Arabic,  but  in  Roman  numerals.    Suppose, 


and  the  supposition  is  not  rerv  farfetched^  'that 
■  e  scribe  wrote  il.  (forty)  iaadvertently  for  Li. 

ixt;).    Thb  would  make  the  year  of  big  birth 


1S26  instead  of  1328,  only  two  yea'ia  earlier,  instead 
of  eighteen  years  later,  than  has  hitherto  been  sup- 
poeed,  and  allow  time  for  the  educatdon  which  he 
devly  had  received ;  and  by  this  very  simple 
change  I  Tentui«  to  think  we  arrive  at  something 
like  the  real  truth  as  to  "Old  Dan  OefTrey's" 
age,  and  remove  a  stumbling-block  out  of  the  way 
(tt  the  future  biogtapbeis  of  tbe  poet 

WlLLUJI  J.  Thohs. 


AN  OLD  DUTCH  NEW3PAPEB. 

I  have  had  in  my  posaession  far  some  short 
time  a  typographical  curiosity  in  the  shape  of  an 
early  Dutch  newspaper,  eotiOed  "  OnHnarue  Mid- 
M-veeckse  Courante,  Anno  1663,  No.  2,"  which 
is  stated  at  the  end  to  have  been  "  Ohedruckt  tot 
Amsterdam  Voor  de  Weduwe  van  Franco3rs  Lief- 
houdt,  Boeck-verkoopfter  op  den  Dam,  int  Groot 
Boeck  den  9  Januarij,  Anno  1662."  This  m 
paper  consists  of  a  single  sheet  of  large  oc 
paper,  being  about  the  size  of  an  entire  page  of 
the  ComhiU,  and  printed  close  up  to  the  margins. 
It  is  printed  in  two  columns  on  Doth  sides  of  the 
paper,  and  in  black  letter.  It  contains  news  from 
Naples  of  Dec.  8, 1061,  &om  Rome  of  12th  ditto, 
ftom  Vienna  ("  Weenen  ")  of  20th  ditto,  from 
Lcmdon  of  20th  ditto,  from  Paris  of  30th  ditto, 
Ac.  &C.  The  London  paragraph  contains  allu- 
Moos  to  the  state  of  Ireland,  to  "  de  Oeoerael 
Ciomwel,"  "  Generael  M^or  Overton,"  "  Mar- 
qnya  Huntley,"  &c.  ftc. 

The  history  of  this  ancient  scrap  is  a  little 
carious.  I  happened  one  d»  to  purchase  at  an 
old  book-ahop  a  Uttle  Dutch-English  phrase-book, 
enlitlMl  (in  Dutch  and  English) — 

"Ths  En^lih  Sehole-msater ;  nr  Cnrtaine  BuIm  and 
Hdpes  whcnby  the  Natives  id  theNtthariandw  nuf  bee 


the  Engliidi  tongoeT 
This  book 


iDzht  to  raid,  uiHlenl<iid,  and  ipeaka 
e? 

This  book  is  a  12mo,  published  at  Amsterdam  • 
1616.  It  had  been  more  recently  bound,  how- 
ever, as  I  found  the  newspaper  I  have  describeil, 
~~  two  pieces,  innde  the  boards,  as  one  sometimes 
u  music  and  printed  matter  incorporated  wit  It 
binding  oven  now.  I  extracted  it  and  got  it  care- 
fully mounted,  and  it  is  now,  with  the  exception 
of  one  or  two  lines  about  the  middle,  so  perfect 
that  anyone  acquainted  with  tbe  Dutch  tonguo 
would  eadly  be  able  to  read  the  whole  of  it 

I  take  the  liberty  of  sending  jou  this  short 
notice  of  tbe  Middel-weeckte  Couranle,  in  case  it 
may  be  of  interest  to  some  of  your  antiquaries 
readers;  and  I  shall  be  happy,  if  any  one  doei 
take  any  interest  in  it,  to  afford  such  oppnrtunities 
for  examination  of  it  as  may  be  airanged. 
I  may  add  that  the  little  phrase-book  ia  in  itself 
very  curious  production.  It  contains  at  the  end 
some  "forms  of  mercantile  writs,  of  which  I 
append  that  for  "a  hill  of  lading  after  the  Hol- 
land manner,"  and  "  a  bill  of  exchange."  Thi 
form  of  the  latter  is,  I  believe,  nearly  identical 
with  that  still  in  use.    You  will  understand  that 


1.  "I,  J. P.  of  Amtterdam,  muter  nnderGod  of  my 
ship  called  tbe  Saint  Peter  «t  this  present  lying  ceidy  in  . 
the  liver  orAmsterdmm  to  eaile  with  the  first  good  windi; 
wbicb  God  ebell  give  towiird  London,  wbere  my  right 
UDlsdins  aliil  be,  ackooirled^  aod  eonfee  tbat  I  brnve 
receaTed  nnder  tbe  hatctaeg  of  my  fonseid  ehip  of  you 
S.  J.  muchiuat,  to  wit,  four  pip«s  of  olle,  tiro  chests  uf 
linnen,  sixteen  bnte  of  currents,  one  ball  of  lenvese,  five 

ed.  Dialed'      _.. 

marks  Btandlag  before,  all  which  I  promise  to  deliver  (If 
Qod  ^va  me  a  prosperous  voyage  wltb  my  said  ahip)  at 
London  sfbmud,  to  the  worshipful  Mr.  A.  J.  l«  hli  Sue- 
tour  or  anignes,  paying  for  tbe  fraigbt  of  the  forteaid 
goods  20f»bj  tbg  tan.  And  for  tbe  performance  of  )lii* 
before  written  1  bind  myself  and  all  niyne  eatate  and  my 
foresaid  ahip  with  all  Its  appurtenances.  In  witnes  wbareof 
I  bave  aigned  tbrea  Instmmeats  hereof  wit)i  my  name  or 
my  purser  in  my  betialf  ■]  of  one  contents,  tba  one  lieing 
performed  tbe  other  to  be  of  no  force. 

Written  InAmstardam  tba  fill  day  of  September,  In  tbe 
Teare!e46. 

J.  P." 

!.  "  In  Ameterdam  tbe  5  September,  lS4i>. 

For  11  too  starlings. 

At  usance  not  having  mj  first  pay  thla  mv  second  of 
eacbange  to  Hr.  P.  L.  or  aasignea  one  hmiared  pounds 
sterling,  the  vslew  lecaiTed  hers  of  Hr.  J.  H.  make  good 
payment  and  place  it  to  acrnmpt  aa  per  advise. 
Xoar  loving  Mend, 

J.  S. 


^eabyCOOgle 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


14^S.TU.  Apwi:S2,7L 


Ik 


nthe 


rummaging  amoDtf  some  old  pai 

other  day,  and  found  the  following  copj  oi , 

written  ej  the  late  Qeneral  Bu^ojne  (author  of 
Th«  Htirtt*  and  other  woikg),  uid  addreemd  to 
hia  friend  Viscount  PolmerstoD  (father  of  tite 
Premier)  on  hia  first  marriage  with  Francea, 
daughter  of  Sir  Francia  Poole.  Thej  belonged  tc 
A  i&tion  of  mine,  who  was  an  intimate  friend  of 
General  Burgojne,  and  used  to  apeak  of  hia  con- 
veisation  as  the  moat  delightful  Uiing  posnble  to 
the  email  houra  of  the  morning  (1  and  2  a.u.)  ; 
he  was  verj  fond  of  late  liouts  when  he  could  get 
any  one  to  ait  up  with  him,  and  few  wera  found 
to  object.  These  Terses  appear  to  me  to  be  yery 
well  worth  presBTvation.  I  have  never  seen  them 
in  any  collection  of  his  works,  nor  in  any  maga- 
sine,  nor  do  I  believe  they  have  ever  been  printed. 

I  have  often  seen  it  stated  that  Oeoeral  Bur- 
goyne  was  a  natural  eon  of  Lord  Bingleri  an 
assertion  perfectly  unfounded  in  fact,  and  I  have 
wondered  that  it  has  not  been  contradicted  by  his 
son  the  present  Field-MarshaL  His  descent  from 
the  family  of  Burgoyne,  baronet,  is  clearly  given 
in  Burke's  Peerage  and  Baronetage,  and  the  rela- 
tionship was  always  acknowledged  by  the  late 
Sir  Roger  and  I^ady  Frances  Burgoyne. 

Perhaps  you  may  think  the  veraea  too  long  for 
ioaerticu ;  if  so,  make  what  use  of  them  you  will. 
I  have  another  copy  of  verses  addreesed  to  hie 
wife,  Lady  Charlotte  Buivoyne,  on  her  endea- 
vouring to  dissuade  him  from  going  on  a  dan- 
gerous expedition. 

UiriS  JDDREB8ED  T 


"  After  bard  conflict,  pauioD  ooolad  { 

DucrtCion,  reason,  hoDonr  ruled 

O'er  Iha  subsiding  Sum ; 
And  Charlotte,*  to  my  vacant  tirean. 
With  kinilm]  charms  and  Tiitoea  bUst, 


"  9ome  jttn  of  love  -w 
And,  ob  I  to  m&ay  taixij  more 

Maf  Hraven  the  t«rm  extend. 

To  try  with  thee  [ha  pleasing  strife, 

Wbicfa  boasts  the  most  deserving  wife. 


.0  proves 


thaU 


[WesballbegladU 


H.  W.L. 
'B  tbem.— Ed.  "  S.  A  Q."] 


CT.  6,  1767. 


"  While,  Palmetston,  the  public  voice 
Diaplays,  in  comments  on  thy  choice, 

PrllM,  censura,  or  surprise. 
Blames  tby  dialnterested  part, 
Or  Interest  finds,  in  warmth  of  heart. 

Where  Fanny's  treasure  lies. 
"  Fain  woald  my  muse,  tho'  rude,  stncere. 
One  humble  artless  wreacb  prepare 

To  bind  her  lovelv  brow; 
With  thee,  would  hail  th'  ausplcioos  mom. 
Attend  the  bride  sbe  c«n't  adorn. 

And  btem  the  nuptial  vow. 
"  Let  thfl  dull  claims  of  due  twtten 
To  lukewarm  crowds  be  praise  supmne, 

/fcund  prelBustons  higher: 
For  know,  the  heart  now  taught  to  beat 
^Ticii  friendship's  laered  temperate  heat. 

Has  once  been  tried  in  flre. 
■■  Twai  mine  to  aee  each  opening  charm, 
New  graces  rise,  new  beauties  warm, 

TwKS  mine  to  feel  their  power  : 
feature  and  morals,  just  aad  pore. 
For  Ihce  have  made  Itie  fruit  mature. 

Since  1  adored  the  flower. 


I 


"The  Bollud."— Will  no  competent  hand  be 
tempted  to  give  us  a  new  edition  of  The  RoUiad 
with  such  explanatory  notes  aa  are  now  needed 
by  ordinary  readers,  but  the  competent  writers  of 
which  are  now  rare  and  everv  day  becoming 
more  bo,  bo  much  ao  that  the  class  will  soon  be 
extinctP  When  the  task  waa  suggested  to  'Or. 
WilsoQ  Croker,  be  mentioned  the  iate  Lord  Lana- 
downe  and  Samuel  Itosers  as  better  qualified  than 
himself,  and  that  his  hands  were  otherwise  full. 
Could  Lord  Stanhope  he  induced  to  condescend 
so  to  employ  the  special  knowledge  of  that  period 
of  English  political  life  with  which  be  must  be 
more  amply  prorided  than  any  other  man  P 

J.  H.  C. 

LWe  are  sore  that  aU  the  readers  of  "  N,  4  Q."  wiU 
join  with  us  in  acknowledging  the  value  or  the  suggestion, 
in  recognising  Lord  Stanhope's  peculiar  fitness  for  the 
task,  and  in  most  earnestly  hoping  that  he  may  find  it 
consisleot  with  other  claims  upon  bis  time  to  undertake 
whst  in  his  hands  would  become  a  very  important  con- 
tribotion  tfi  the  bistoiy  of  political  satire  in  England. — 
Ed.  "N.  &  Q."] 

Erppis'e  Copt  ot  thb  "  Biosiuphia  Britaw- 
ifiGA."' — I  have  recently  diacovsred  that  I  bars 
been  for  some  rime  the  unconscioua  possessor  of 
a  oopy  of  the  first  edition  of  the  Biographia  Bri- 
taniUca,  which  proves  unmistakably  to  have  been 
the  working  copy  of  Dr.  KippiSj  the  editor  of  th« 
unfinished  second  edition,  llie  margins  of  many 
of  the  pages  are  literally  covered  with  the  Doo- 
tor's  notes  in  shorthand,  and  I  bsve  taken  out  of 
the  volumes  a  sufficient  number  of  loose  memo- 
randa to  make  a  small  volume,  some  of  which  are 
in  hia  handwriting,  and  others  notes  commnni- 
cated  to  him.  The  manner  in  which  the  second 
edition  was  to  be  completed  is  dearly  indicated 
by  the  marginal  notes.  1  shall  be  most  hanpy  to 
show  the  volumes  to  any  one  interested  in  them. 
JoBSFH  LxmnL  Chbsuck. 
16,  Linden  TiUas,  Blue  Anchor  fioad,  BemsoDdaer,  BX 
Baiba-Dit  Hodsbs,  oe  Nook  Hofsbs.  —  A 
recent  nnmber  of  7Ae  Traveller  (fiostao,  Maaea- 
Ghnaetts)  famishes  the  following  account:— 

ariolte  Stanley,  daughter  of  Edward  elevealh 


4»s.tii.apr.l22.7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


"  At  Towg««nd  Centre  time  ia  atlll  ituding  one  of 

tliceenlJeaof  ifbnner  time,aSabbB-dayor  HoonHooM. 
"  Befbce  tlie  modern  conveniencu  of  stoT«  and  rarnaceg 
for  miming  diitnbes,  it  wu  very  deeinble,  after  at- 
.  ttndfaig  Mrrics  in  a  cold  meating-lioiuie,  to  have  Mine 
[dace  during  tbe  inlenaiBaion  nhere  the  anfferen  could 
goandwann  thenuelvo  and  eat  their  lanch.  Some  need 
to  go  to  nelgfaboDring  houHe  tbat  were  kindly  opened 
fbr  paitieniar  friends ;  otben  went  to  the  tavern,  which 
always  kqit  an  open  door  and  an  open  bar ;  otben  bailt 
ftir  uenudvej  what  were  called  Sabba-daj  or  Noon 

"  The  pastor  o{  the  Congregational  cbnrch  In  Town- 
send,  in  a  rtcent  hiitoriciil  dieconiae,  describee  these 
boiuea.  Like  the  one  now  standing  at  Townsend,  they 
consiiCwl  of  foor  rooms  ten  or  Cwelye  feet  square,  wHh  a 
fireplace  in  each  room.  Thsy  were  generally  bnilt  at  the 
nnited  expense  of  fbur  or  more  peIgDn^  to  be  occupied 
only  on  the  Sabbath  by  tbdr  respectiTe  Ihmilie*  and  auch 

Eueeta  aa  they  invited  to  join  with  them.  Dry  foel  was 
ept  on  hand  ready  for  kiodling  fires,  and  nsnally  a 
barrel  of  cider  for  each  fimilv  was  placed  in  the  cellar. 

"  On  tbe  morning  of  the  'Sabbath,  the  owner  of  each 
room  depoiitcd  in  his  aaddle-bags  the  neceieary  refieah- 
menis  Sot  himself  and  family,  and  took  an  earl;  Mart  for 
the  sanctuary.  He  first  called  at  his  noon-house,  built  a 
Are,  deposited  hie  tuncbeoD,  warmed  himself  and  flunily, 
and  at  the  hour  of  worship  th^  were  all  ready  to  sally 
forth  and  to  shiver  in  the  cold  daring  the  morning  ser- 
vice at  the  bouse  of  wonhip.  At  noon  they  returned  lo 
tbeir  noon-boose  with  invited  friends,  where  a  warm 
room  received  them.  The  saddle-bags  were  now  brought 
forth,  and  their  contents  discharged  on  tbe  table,  of 
which  all  partook  a  little.  Then  each  in  Inm  drank 
from  the  pilcherormnga  of  cider  which  had  beenbroaght 
ttom  the  cellar.  This  service  being  performed,  and  thanks 
returned,  the  remaining  time  was  spent  in  leading  notes 
and  discnssing  the  morning  sermon,  a  chapter  mim  the 
Bible  or  fh)ni  some  other  book  of  a  religious  character;  not 
nnfrequently  prayer  was  offered  before  retiring  again  to 
the  sanctuary  for  the  afternoon  wortbip.  At  tbe  cloee  of 
the  services  of  the  afternoon,  if  the  weather  waa  severely 
cold,  tbe  Amily  returned  to  the  noon-houte  to  warm 
themselves  before  going  home,  llie  fires  were  then 
estingnistaed,  the  saddle-bags  gathered  up,  the  boose 
locked,  and  all  retomed  home." 

Philadelphia. 

"The  Dreau  of  Holt  Mart."  — The  fol- 
lowing, which  I  extract  tiom  the  Charch  Time», 
(March  17, 1»71),  shows  bow  old  customa  are  kept 
up  in  out-of-the-way  districts  among  the  Welsh. 
Tlie  writer  aays  there  are  old  peo^e  who  neyer 
retire  to  reBt  without  sajring  their  Pader  and  the 
Sreuddvn/i  Mair,  or  Dream  of  the  B.  V.  TAxcy. 
He  g^ves  this  tranalation  of  the  latter: — 

"  Holy  Mother  Mary,  whv  art  thou  weeping  ? 
I  am  not  weeping,  m¥A>n,  but  dreanung. 
Holy  Mother  Hary,  what  is  thy  dream  ? 
I  see  Thee  taken,  my  Son,  and  crucified. 
And  the  son  of  perdition,  blinded  and  deceived. 


The  blind  and  the  stubborn  Jew  Thee  betrayiitg.     ■ 
Wine  to  nonrish,  water  to  cleanse, 
He  who  repeatetb  this  thrice  befbre  sleeping 
Need  fear  no  unholy  thought  or  dreamiag. 
'  Holy  Mother  Mary,  art  thou  sleeping  ? 

Yea,  beloved  Son,  and  dreaming. 

What  seest  then  in  tby  dream  f 

I  see  Thee  persecuted,  caaght,  and  to  the  cross  nailed. 

And  a  blinded  mac,  by  the  wicked  one  deceived. 

Thy  holy  left  side  with  spear  merdng. 

And  Thy  beloved  and  blessed  Blood  flowing. 
True  is  the  dream  of  Holy  Hary  : 
He  who  knows  it  and  repeats  it  thrice  before  sleeping, 
Mo  unholy  dream  shall  distorb  him. 
He  shall  never  tread  the  regions  of  heU." 

John  Piqqot,  Jun. 

French  Wood-pioeohs  sbtver  bt  the  War 
o  EiroLAND. — Fluelleo  told  us  the  connection 
between  Macedon  and  Uoaraouth ;  and  a  writer 
on  the  doings  of  the  Pjtchlej,  in  Land  and  Wattr 
for  March  26,  has  pointed  out  the  possihilitv  of  a 
contiection  between  the  eiege  of  Paris  and  the 
flocks  of  wood-pigeons  iu  England.  He  says : — 
"The  woods  are  still  wintry-lookinfj  the  primroses, 
violets,  and  anemones  only  jn^t  beginning  to  open  ;  tbe 
golden  catkins  of  the  sallow  are  .the  only  con^icnooe 
flowen.  There  have  been  unnanalty  large  flight*  of 
wood-pigeons  this  winter  ;  they  bave  coniie  in  search  of 
the  acorns  which  have  been  so  plentiful ;  but  the  popular 
belief  it,  that  they  are  natives  or  France,  driven  acrosa 
the  Channel  by  the  noise  of  tbe  war,  or,  as  one  old  man 
expressed  it,  by  tbe  loimbering  over  there.  I  have  also 
seen  more  stock  doves  and  more  hooded  crovstban  I  bave 
ever  noticed  before.  Old  Perkins,  Qie  Drayton  keeper, 
who,  in  bis  eighty-fourth  year,  was  out  on  a  pony,  and 
tboronghiy  enjoying  the  roort,  told  me  tbat  he  had  never 
seen  so  many  pigeons  before.  He  is  a  good  authority, 
having,  before  he  became  a  gamekeeper,  spent  more  daya 
and  nights  in  the  woods  and  seen  more  sport  in  an 
irrtgtdar  way  than  any  man  in  the  county." 

This  extract  aeems  to  me  to  be  worthy  of  pre- 
aervation  in  these  pages.  Cviebebi  Beds. 

"Gektlekek  of  the  Pavement."  —  This 
phraae,  used  bj  Count  Bismarck  in  Decembei, 
1870,  Bcomfully  to  designate  the  Proviuonal 
Hovemment  of  France,  is  of  aiurse  a  figuimtiTe 
eipresuoD  common  enough.  "Etre  sur^le  pair^" 
is  to  be  housele«B,  on  the  streets.  "  Un  battmit 
de  pav^  "  is  one  who  has,  in  our  slang  phlMO, 
the  "  key  of  the  street"  The  "  Mesaieura  et 
Msdames  du  pav€,"  those  ffentlemeo  and  btdies 
whose  respectability  is  of  Uie  smallest  kind,  al- 
most in  fact  inappndable.  We  too  hare  some 
such  slaDg  in  our  tongue,  i.  e.  "  nymphs  of  th« 
pave," — a  phrase  not  noticed  by  the  tngenioiu 
compiter  of  Hotten's  Slanif  Dictionmy.  It  is, 
however,  curious  to  find  an  almost  exact  parallel 
to  Bismarck's  phrase,  which  in  its  contemptnous 
vigour  struck  tbe  British  public  as  something 
new,  in  the  works  of  one  of  the  most  eloquent  (u 
our  statesmen.  In  Burke's  scathing  attack  upon 
some  of  his  noble  antagotiiBts  he  uses  a  Tery 
similar  phrase,  e.  g. : — 


342 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [*-s.vii.a 


ii.s);7i. 


■■  If  I  abonM  fail  in  a  single  poiat  I  owe  to  the  tllai- 
tiiatu  peisont,  I  craaot  be  euppoHd  to  meaa  tb«  Duke 
of  Bedford  tnii  tha  E«rl  of  Uuderdile  of  the  Hoiue  of 
Petri,  bat  the  Duke  of  Bedford  and  the  Earl  of  Laoder- 
daleof  P»Uo©  Yard!  Ihtn  tliei/ art  on  thr  pavrmaU,  Iheie 
they  seam  to  come  nearer  to  mv  hnmble  leveL"— BoiliB'a 
ff^arkt,  Bohd'i  edition,  1861,  vol.  r.  p.  114.  "  A  Letter 
to  ■  Nobla  Lnni" 

HAIN  FBiawBLL. 

74,  GreatBniull  Street,  Bloomsburr  Square. 


(SurrEcif. 


Arsm  Fault. — Since  sending  my  first  query 
on  tbis  subject,  I  find  from  a  reliable  aource  thftt  ia 
1668  Richatd  Anstin  was  a  freeman  of  the  city  of 
London.  Hia  wiU  was  proved  at  the  Court  of 
Probato,  Middlesex,  in  1704,  "  when  Samtiel  and 
Joseph  appraised  the  estate  of  their  honoured 
father  Kichard,  and  Samuel  administered  thereon." 
I  have  already  given  William  Austin  "of 
Surry,"  Ae  father  of  Mary,  as  ascertuned  b^ 
Mary's  monument  in  Kencott  church,  Oxon.  This 
Mary  was  bom  in  1616,  and,  so  far  as  dates  are 
concerned,  she  m^ht  be  a  uster  of  the  above- 
named  Ricbaid.  Can  any  of  your  correspondents 
show  whether  this  Richard 


relation,  of  William  Austin  "  of  Surry"  P 


m!1?. 


CHrBCH. 


AUTHOBS  WANTED.  - 


, _,  _.iTof  them,  tbouj^  1  havfl  looked 

over  the  two  laat  I  have  named,  in  thnr  passa^  between 
Ladr  NoTtbumberliDd  and  Mn.  Kinedom."— Lcfttr/rna 
iht  'Duchea  of  Someritl  ia  Lady  LaiboTOtsli,  Decem- 
ber 81,  IToi. 

Who  wrote  those  two  works  named;  or  are 
they  the  names  of  writers  of  the  time  ?      W.  P. 

[  The  Bittory  «f  Jemmg  ami  Jtany  Jruamv,  in  8  toU. 
Ills,  is  by  Mrs.  Eliza  Havwood,  who  tbr  tbe  tooseneas  of 
her  early  prodactlong  Is  gibbeted  in  The  Dwidad,  book  ii. 
lines  157-166.— TA*  Hiitory  of  Betty  Bamet,  2  vols. 
ISttno,  1762,  is  an  aDOnymoos  novel,  writt«a  (says  the 
MamUy  Beview,  vil.  170J  for  tbe  kitchen.] 

*'.£bop'sFablbs":  Bewick.— I  bavea  Tolumc 
of— 

"Fables  of  .Xsop  and  othere,  Ac,  by  S.  CroxaU,  D.D, 
The  Sixteenth  Edition,  carefully  reviaed  and  improved." 
1798,  pp.  S29.    Woodcnta,  196. 
A»  Uie  woodcuts  by  Bewick  ?  W.  S. 

[Tbe  woodcnle  in  thia  volome  do  not  appear  to  be 
from  the  Braver  of  the  Bewicka.  There  was  on  edition  of 
TU  FiMtt  ^JEvip  published  at  Newcastle  in  ISIS,  Svo, 
with  dedgneOD  wood  byThomaaBewick  1  but  the  greater 
numbeTof  cntaio  this  volume  were  designed  by  R.  John- 

"  ABBiiTHiroT  " :  "  RcTHVEit " :  how  pro- 
MouETOED  ? — Will  some  well-informed  Scotchman 
tell  me  where  the  accent  ought  to  be  laid  in 
tbe  name  ArbuthnotP  I  hare  heard  natives  of 
Scotland  pbux  it  on  tbe  second  syllable  ;  hut  in 
England  it  ia  commoolj  laid  on  the  first    The 


fiunoua  wit  was  evidently  called  Ar'buthnot  by 
his  friends.    Pope,  in  his  Epistle,  says — 

"  To  second,  Arbuthnot,  thy  art  and  care." 
More  than  sii  years  ago  ("  N.  &  Q."  8^  S.  ri. » 
207),  1  asked  for  the  original  and  true  pronuncia- 
tion of  "  Ruthvan,"  but  I  have  never  had  an 
answer.  I  mentioned  that  an  English  friend  of 
mine,  who  bears  it  as  a  Christian  name,  calls 
himself  and  is  always  called  "  Riven  "  (rhyming 
to  ffiven.)  The  name  Ruthven  is  historical,  and 
one  likes  to  know  how  to  pronounce  it  correctly. 

[Lady  Sive%  is  Uie  title  by  which  Lady  Bnthven  is 

called  by  her  Soateh  friends.] 


Baptists,  Presbytero  Congregstlauis  Oratorii  Saudi 
Pbilippf  Xerii  Ulysslpponensis,  Phllosophi«  ac  Saen 
Theo!c«Ic  Professora.    Uiyseippone.  1748,  fcl." 

Can  any  of  ^our  readers  give  ma  any  infonna- 
tion  respecting  it  espedally  ns  regards  toe  number 
of  volumes!'  Itdoea  not  appear  to  be  in  the  British 
Museum  libra^,  nor  do  I  find  reference  to  it  in 
any  avulable  bibliography.  W.  J.  F,  T. 

BxAUCHAKF.  —  May  I  ask  HsBiUNTKiTDa 
whether  she  really  means  (4*^  S.  vii.  219)  to 
blazon  the  coat  of  Beaucbamp  of  Warwick  as 
showing  only  Ihret  cross  crosslets  F  If  so,  will  she 
kindly  say  where  she  finds  the  coat  so  given  P  And 
may  I  presume  to  suggest  to  HsRUBntTRDDE  thnt 
her  inexperienced  readers  might  require  to  be  told 
that  the  coat  Oulas,  a  lion  passant  euardant  (not 
rampant)  or,  crowned  argent,  is  really  the  coat  of 
Gerard  or  Gerald  assume  by  tbe  De  f'lsle  family, 
as  was  customary  ?  Their  own  coat  was  Or,  a  fees« 
between  two  cnevtona  sable.  They  both  appear 
repeated  together  several  times,  on  the  tomb  of 
Ambroea  Dudley,  Earl  of  Warwick,  in  the  Beau- 
champ  Chapel,  Warwick.  D.  P. 
Stuaita  Lodge,  Halvem  Wells. 

Ret.  Thohas  Bbooks. — When  is  any  account 
to  be  found  of  "  Master  Thomas  Brooks,  Preacher 
of  the  Gospel  at  Margaret's,  New  fish  Street,"  in 
1667  P  I  nave  reason  to  believe  that  a  family  in 
this  city  is  descended  from  him.  He  was  the 
author  of  several  works,  Uitbda. 

Philadelphia. 

[An  accoant  of  Thomas  Brooka,  with  a  list  of  hie 
works,  may  be  found  la  Calamy's  Abridgnttnt,  or  In  Pal- 
mer's IfoHcmformiit'l  ifemoHal,  edlL  ISDJ,  i.  160-153. 
The  Eev.  A.  B.  Grosart  has  annonnced  a  Hemoir  of 
Thomas  Brooks  fbr  a  collective  edition  of  his  Works.  Sec 
"N.4Q,"8f*a.  iv.MS,] 

Cbaklbs  I. — Can  anv  one  inform  me  into  whose 
hands  pieces  of  the  ribDon  of  the  Garter  worn  by 
Cbarlea  the  Har^  at  bis  execution  may  have 
come  t    I  have  one  ^ece  in  my  posseesion  with 


4'kS.VILA»Mi.!S,7l.] 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


343 


iU  d««cent  traced  to  aboat  1746.  It  smdu  that 
when  Juxon  handed  over  the  jewel  to  ita  lawful 
owner  he  kept  the  ribbon  foi  himself. 

W.  J.  MlMBBY. 

CasnaiVKCB.  —  Sif  Bulwer  Ljtton,  in  two 
pBSBB^  of  his  King  Arthur  (I  quote  from  2iid 
edit.  1849),  usee  the  wotd  "  cheTisnunce "  in  a 
peculiar  manner — 

"Frank  wan  those  limtt  of  tmatfnl  cheTiuaace." 
Bk.  vilL  at.  11. 

"  Stand  fortli— bold  cMld  of  Clulatiaa  ebevionnce  t " 
Bk.xiMl.19fi. 

It  would  seem  almost  as  if  the  poet  used  the 
word  as  sfnonjmous  with  "chivalry,"  or,  at  all 
e?ents,  wera  ignoring  the  diflerence  between  captd 
ood  eabalba.  To  those  accustomed  to  the  ordi- 
nary mercantile  use  of  the  word  in  Chaoeei,  Lang- 
land,  Oower,&c.,  the  effect  is  somewhat  ludicrous. 
Chaucer's  Merchant,  "  wiihhis  hargaTUS  and  with 
his  chevysaunce  "  {Ti-ologut,  1.282),anaLaDglaDd's 
Aeai-ice,  with  his  "eschaunftes  and  cheuetaoces" 
(Text  B.  pass.  t.  1.  249,  ed.  Skeat),  sie  so  directly 
witipodal   to  Sir  Lancelot   and  the  Arthurian 

Sir  Bulwer  L3rttan,  at  the  first-quoted  line, 
refers  to  Spenser ;  and  I  find  a  passage  {Faerie 
Queens,  bL  II.  canto  iz.  st.  6)  where  the  word  is 
used  in  a  sense  somewhat  similiir  to  that  of  the 
modem  poet's — 

" '  Foruine  the  fo«  of  hmons  ehevlBiimct^ 

Seldom,'  aiiid  Guyon, '  jields  to  veitDa  side.' " 

Todd  here  gloeses  "  enterprise  " ;  and,  expressly 
qualified  as  it  is  by  the  a^ectire  "Eamona,"  the 
word  is  easily  to  be  understood. 

In  another  passage  iShtphtar^t  Calendar, 
"  May,"  1.  92),  Spenser  uses  the  word  in  its  com- 
mon mercantile  sense^ 

"Theynuken  mui/ >  wrong  cherissance." 

ColgTaye  gives — 

"  Oteciuance,  f.  An  agreemeut  oi  compositioa  made  ; 
■a  end  or  order  nt  down  betwnui  ■  crtditar  ind  dabtor.'i 

I  ask,  is  "cbeTisaunce"  used  in  the  sense  of 
knightly  achievement  bv  any  other  of  our  early 
poets  P    I  can  recall  no  instance. 

JoHH  Addis. 

RtutingtoD,  neiT  Littlehainpton,  Snsstx. 

CoBiTELL  Faxilt. — Can  any  of  your  readers 
kindly  furnish  me  with  a  brief  genealogical  his- 
tory of  the  Comalls  or  Cornells  P  Can  the  families 
bearing  these  names  be  trsced  to  the  same  paren- 
tage ?  The  Hon.  Ejra  Cornell,  founder  of  the 
Cornell  TJoivereity,  Ithaca,  U.  S,,  sbvb  that  his 
ancestors,  Thomas  and  Rebecca  ConieU,  emigrated 
in  or  about  the  year  1638  from  Eoglsud  to  Ame- 
rica; but  he  knona  nothing  of  their  parenltwe. 
Can  a  genealogical  connection  be  traced  out  be- 
tween the  Cornells,  Comalls,  Coniwells,  Corn- 


walls,  and  the  French  Comeilles  P  IHd  the  anoent 
district  of  Cornwall  give  rise  to  these  names  P 

Replies  to  these  queries,  sent  to  the  Rbt.  R.  C, 
34,  Portland  Square,  will  be  thankfully  received. 

CftATTFUBDS  or  Newasx,  Baboitsis.  —  In 
Burke's  Baronetize  for  this  year,  the  aims,  ciesl. 
and  motto  of  this  family  are  given  ss  those  of 
Craufurd  of  Auchensmea,  Kilbimie,  and  of  the 
Kene  family,  descended  from  Sir  Qregan  Crau- 
furd.    Is  not  this  combination  erroneous  P 

The  family  of  Craufurd  of  Newark  is  dearly 
deduced  from  Auchenames  by  George  Ciawfhrd, 
the  well-known  Scotch  antiquery. 

Is  there  any  reason  to  donbt  the  accuracy  of 
his  judgment  f  H. 

Efithbtb  of  the  Hohths. — I  was  speaking  to 
a  countryman  the  other  day  in  East  LaneaiSire 
about  the  weather.  "  Aye, ''he  swd,  "it's  March 
manywtalher»."  The  expression  struck  me  be- 
cause it  was  evidently  a  proverbial  and  allif  erative 
epithet  for  the  montii.  So  I  asked  him  if  there 
were  similar  names  for  the  other  months,  "Well," 
he  said,  "  there's  February ,^ij^A«.-  but  I  know 
no  more  than  that."  This  epithet  is  also  allitera- 
tive, and  I  cannot  doubt  the  other  months  have 
their  corresponding  sobriquets.  He  said,  more- 
over, that  there  was  a  rhyme  to  the  February 
one,  which  ran  thus : — 

"  Febniiry  flU.df  k« 

Either  with  black  or  while  " ; 

that  is,  as  he  expltuned,  eitlier  with  run  or  snow. 

Perhaps  the  other  epithets  may  be  known  to  some 

of  the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  G.  R.  K. 

GxABTHAx  Inn  Ejiana.— There  is  one  remark- 
able circumstsnce  connected  withOrsntham  which 
I  noticed  while  spending  an  hour  in  the  town — the 
signaof  some  of  the  inns.  Therewas  theBlue  Man, 
the  Bine  IJon,  the  Blue  Horse,  the  Blue  Bull,  the 
Blue  Cow,  the  Blue  Ram,  the  Bine  Sheep,  and 
the  Blue  Pig;  lastly  I  observed  a  small  street 
called  the  Blue  Gate.  There  may  be  other  blue 
things  which  I  did  not  notice.  Whence  this  curions 
pmchanl  for  the  blues  ?         E.  L.  Blbnsibsoff. 

Maiiis  of  Honoub. — Can  any  of  your  cor- 
reepondents  inform  me  whether  there  is  in  ex- 
istence a  list  or  memorandum  of  the  vaiioos 
"maids  of  honour"  to  the  queens  of  England 
from  the  year  1688  to  the  present  time  P  If  theM 
is  such  n  list,  how  and  where  con  it  be  seen  P 

Eroi. 

''  Uebsabbr  DBS  SciKircBs  sr  dgs  Aktb," 
vol.  iL,  Qand,  1823-4.-1  should  be  obliged  if  any 
reader  can  tell  me  where  I  can  see  tjie  above, 
besides  the  copy  in  the  British  Museum;  or  if 
any  correspondent  could  tend  me  the  same  for  a 
week  I  would  be  very  grateful,  and  return  with 
all  expenses  paid.  W.  Mabss, 

7,  Red  Lion  Square. 


344 


NOTES  AND  QaBRlES. 


t4»S.TII.AMULa,*7L 


ffueae 
Oefc 


'  Old  Fakildb  wiTHOTrt  Coat  Abx ous.  —  Are 
any  of  your  i«niere  aware  of  ench  a  mm  ae  that 
of  ft  familj  which  has  held  the  &ame  estate  for 
two  centunee,  and  the  head  of  which  was  a  limi- 
dnd  and  fif^  years  ago  high  sheriff  for  the  county, 
tho  said  Gtmilj  not  posseesiag  anj  annorial  bear- 
ingBP  P- 

.  FoKTuamaB  Coppbe  Coin. — I  hare  a  Portu- 
niete  copper  coin,  weighing  about  1}  oz,  with 
^  fallowing  ioaciiptions.  &c. : — 

Obv.  Arms  of  Portogal — Jobsphub  .  I .  D  .  o  . 
BEX.  7.  T  .  D .  ajnssx. 
JZm.  Uaouu  1 .  1770.  Apkiol  .  PoBTnauffis\. 
fm  I  right  in  my  conjecture  that  this  is  a  coin 
atmck  for  the  special  use  of  the  West  Coast  of 
AMca  P  I  can  find  none  such  in  any  list  to  which 
I  hare  access.  Any  account  of  it  will  be  accept- 
able. C.  W.  BnraHAjf. 

EuLT  QuBBirfl  OF  ScoTLUfn.  —  Miaa  Strick- 
land be^na  her  lives  of  theae  queens  with  Mar- 
guet  Tndor,  the  sister  of  Henry  VUL  Have  the 
Uvea  of  the  earlier  queens  been  published,  and  by 
whomP  CD.  0. 

KosESBi  iHi  8f  IBS. — There  were  two  English 
apiee  in  1667  whose  names  were  Christopher  and 
Anthonv  Rokesby.     They  are  mentioned  at  p.  362 


of  what  family  the^  were  P  Can  it  be  that  these 
acoundrels  were  scions  of  the  knightly  house  of 
Bbkoby  of  Bokeby  and  Morthani  F 

A.  0.  V.  P. 
Stow- iK-THB- Wold,  Co,  Gmuobstkb.  —  In 
what  diocese  was  Stow.ii-tbe-Wold  included  be- 
fore the  see  of  Qloucester  was  erwted  by  Henry 

vm  p  c.  D.  c. 

TErBAsoiTAL  Inbokiptioii. — The  accompanying 
and  beantjful  tetragonal  inscription  was  found 
among  the  papers  ot  a  clergyman  recently  de- 
•eawd:  — 

'  "  G.   Poit  tenebraa,  Inz. 

S.   In  luce,  spei. 

W.  In  obitD,  pax. 

N.  Poet  obitum,  ulua." 
A  Mend  infonna  me  that  it  is  found  upon  a  Cross, 
inscribed  on  the  four  ddes  of  the  pedestal  and 
fscinK  the  four  winds,  on  the  Hin^  Hill,  near 
Goduming,  and  it  is  believed  that  the  said  cross 
replaced  a  gibbet  on  which  the  mandarins  [PI,  who 
muideied  an  English  sailor,  were  huns  in  cnains. 
If  you  could  discorer  the  origin  of  the  words,  I 
should  be  greatly  obliged.'  H.  M.  I. 

rrtM  way-aide  cross  od  the  mmmit  ot  Hiitda  HIU 
w«  erected  in  1851  by  Sir  Williun  Erie,  and  Is  con- 
■tmeted  of  CornilK  granite.  The  murdar  lUnded  to 
wai  eomroitted  by  three  tailori  on  Sept.  24,  I7S6,  aud  tbe 
bo^y  rolled  into  the  hollow  oT  the  "Deirii's  Punch-bowl." 
Id  the  DeighbonriDg  charchysrd  ot  Thnnlay  i*  a  bead- 


I   senlpton,    lepresealing   the  thrae 


VcLOAtx,  A..n.  1S16. — Having  a  fine  and  nearly 
perfect  cosy  of  the  Vnl^te,  printed  by  John 
Ucylin  atXondon  on  April  13, 1616, 1  sliould  be 
much  ohU^  if  any  librarian  can  tefer  ma  to  any 
co^  of  this  edition  which  has  a  title-page.  The 
Bntidi  Museum  copy  has  no  tilJe. 

FrAKCIB  T.  HlTliBflAL, 

Henfbid. 

WAUyauiSTow  Pabibh  Luis.  —  There  is  a 
long  slip  of  land  belonging  to  this  parish  running 
parallel  with  the  entire  southern  boundary  of  the 
main  portion,  but  dividing  tlie  adjoining  parish 
of  Levton  into  two  parts ;  and  there  is  a  tradition 
that  Oie  piece  of  laud  was  acquired  by  Waltham- 
stow  on  the  occasion  of  a  dead  body  being  carried 
along  it  Now  this  is  very^  uncertain  and  rague, 
and  I  have  searched  in  vain  in  the  county  nis- 
tories  for  an;  reference  to  it  I  shall  be  greatly 
obliged  if  any  correepondent  could  find  any  old 
reference  to  it  in  print  Waltebof.  ' 

"  WiTTT  is  FLimxiue  Flaccub." — Who  wrote 

the  following  lines  f  on  whom  were  they  written, 
and  when  P — 
•<  Wittj  u  Fluninios  Fleonit, 
As  Rieat  a  Jacobin  as  Gracchus, 

As  fit,  but  not  >o [1  cannot  remeinber  the  word 

■    here]  as  Bacchns, 
Ridins  on  a  little  jackass." 

H.  B. 


the  seven  planets  are  of  unquestionably  high  bl 
tiqnity,  and  figures  reeembfia(r  them  are  found 
on  Egyptian  monuments.  Can  any  reader  of 
'•  N.  k  Q."  say  when  or  by  whom  the  pieeent  ab- 
brevistM  or  curt  ugns  of  the  lodiao  were  formed 
(as  it  seems)  from  the  respective  animal  represen- 
tations f  J.  F. 
Winterton. 


THE  COMPLETION  OF  ST.  PAUL'S  CATHEDRAL. 
(4»  S.  vi  pM$im:  viL  186,  241.) 

It  is  to  he  regretted  that  the  remarks  so  justly 
made  in  reference  to  this  great  undertaking  cams 
just  too  late,  as  it  would  appear  bv  a  paragraph 
m  The  Timet  a  tew  days  since  that  the  committee 
charged  with  tho  duty  of  canying  oat  the  pro- 
jected works  have  come  to  a  resolution  by  which 
the  objectionable  arrangements  mentioned  by  Mr. 
SoMBES  CtiRKB  are  really  to  be  carried  into 
effect.  Let  us  hope,  however,  that  it  is  not  yet 
too  late  to  induce  the  committee  to  reoonidder  the 
matter,  and  that  another  scheme  so  ably  treated 
in    the    firat   number  of   Tht   Saeritfy  may   be 


*»8.tu.a»ml22,'7L3  NOTES  AND  QU£BIES. 


tboMo^j  reatilftted  before  taj  utire  opetslioiu 
•re  begun. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  contracdiig  the 
chancel,  and  b^  the  erection  of  two  side  oigana, 
would  meet  eeitouelj  damage  the  interior  effect  of 
the  building.  The  plan  propoaed  in  The  Sacriay 
of  retaining  the  pesent  choir  onangements  for 
ordinary  daily  eerrices,  and  the  construction  of  an 
ante-chcdr  with  elevated  altar  and  baldachino 
slightlj  advanced  under  the  dome,  seems  to  neet 
all  the  requirementa.  The  great  organ  might 
remain  in  we  tranmpt ;  all  the  woiahippera  in  the 
dome  area,  toanaept,  and  nare  could  then  join 
heartily  in'  the  servicee,  and  not  preaching  only, 
but  the  whole  of  the  church  aervioea  would  be 
performed  in  the  presence  of  enormoua  congre- 

Sitiona.  The  details  of  this  scheme  are  admirably 
escribed  in  the  ptwea  of  The  Sacriaty,  and  it  is 
greatly  to  be  decdred  that  the  committee  will  not 
decline  to  lecondder  the  subject  simply  because 
it  is  auggeated  by  outuders.  It  will  be  matter 
for  lasting  regret  if  so  great  an  opportunity  is  lost 
for  carrring  mto  effect  the  Yery  beat  plan  which 
can  be  devised. 

Let  it  not  be  forgotten  that  in  the  year  1847, 
when  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Westminster 
made  their  great  alterations  in  the  Abbey,  bow 
sadly  they  misaed  the  opportunity  of  doing  the 
tight  thing,  and  instead  of  removing  a  modem 
screen  and  shifting  two  monuments,  whereby  the 
entire  area  of  the  nave  might  have  been  used  for 
congregational  purposes,  they  preferred  seating  the 
transept,  placing  people  in  aucb  positions  that  the 
^ater  number  can  see  neither  the  altar,  the 
clergy,  nor  the  capitular  choir  j  in  fact,  dividing  the 
great  body  of  worshippers  into  three  separate 
congregations. 

I  have  now  before  me  No.  20;  of  The  Pariih 
Chmr)  or,  Church  Mmtic-Book,  in  which  the  de- 
fects of  tlus  arrangement  are  moat  fonnbly  shown, 
and  a  plan  given  to  show  how  eanly  the  nave 
might  nave  been  used  and  every  eccleuastical 
rule  followed.  Aj^menta  of  the  most  convinc- 
ing kind  accompamed  the  plan,  which  was  advo- 
cated in  a  ve^  able  •manner  by  the  Rev.  W. 
(now  Sir  William  Cope,  Bart )  Cope,  then  precen- 
tor; and  yet,  in  spite  of  all  the  most  sensible 
recommendationB,  other  counsels  prevtuled,  and 
we  now  see  in  consequence  the  present  uncom- 
fortable arrangements.  Circnm stances,  however, 
have  even  now  compelled  the  Dean  and  Chapter 
to  throw  open  the  nave  for  special  servicee.  How 
infinitely  better  the  effect  would  be  with  the 
modem  screen  removed,  and  the  clergy  and  choir 
in  their  right  places  I 

I  refer  any  of  yonr  readers  who  take  an  interest 
in  this  subject  to  the  admirable  article  in  Tha 
Pariih  Choir  to  which  I  have  alluded.  I  have 
travelled  a  little  beyond  my  purpose  in  referring 
to  Westminster  Abbey  when  the  question  under 


relates  to  St.  Panl's,  bat  the  cases  are 

.  and  the  mistake  made    in  the  former 

building  should  be  a  warning  to  tha  committea 

Bxsi.  F^iBSZ,  F.S.A. 


OEDEKS  OF  KNIGHTHOOD. 
(4«'  8.  r.  ri.  pamm;  viL  100,  197.) 

Hoiiiii(Cui.iJS,  erstwhile  my  approved  good  com- 
rade and  ever  my  valued  friend,  has  for  years 
permitted  his  sword  to  rust  in  its  scabbard — bai 
taken  to  the  healing  of  wounds  instead  of  the 
making  of  them — and  bids  fair  for  canonisation ; 
whilst  I,  not  finding  the  world  to  he  yet  good 
enough  to  roll  on  smoothly  without  some  fighting 
occasionally,  am  content,  like  the  Black  Douglas, 
to  let  my  hands  defend  my  face  and  to  remain  a 
man  of  war  as  of  old. 

When,  the  English  Knights  of  St.  John  ware 
attacked  anew,  on  apparently  fixed  principles,  by 
the  Roman  clique — which  of  lata,  under  orders 
from  the  Propt^anda,  has  striven  to  force  itwlf 
into  notoriety,  and  to  usurp  a  poution  to  which, 
although  favoured  by  papal  patronage,  it  has  is 
this  kmgdom  but  iiie  shadow  of  preteosion  — 
Uoutrs'cuLirs  and  I  differed  as  to  tue  course  to 
be  pursued  by  those  interested  in  the  cause  of 
progress.  He,  good  man,  in  spite  of  alll  could 
urge,  must  needs  in  your  columns  preach  peace 
and  union  and  other  Utopianisms ;  whilst  1,  be- 
lieving hloodlettiDpr  to  be  advis^le  under  ^e 
circumstances,  would  fain  have  let  the  men  fight 
out  their  quarrel  by  themselves.  Not  that  I  like 
their  B^leof  fighting;  for  more  than  one  of  these 
Ultramontanes  deal  strange  uuderbaoded  blows, 
and  withal  are  scant  of  courtesv.  Instructed, 
doubtless,  by  ghostly  adviaera  and  by  the  clever 
advocate  whose  professional  ability  I  admire,  their 
plan  would  seem  in  this,  as  in  other  quarters,  to 
be  aggressive,  self-asserting,  and  uncompromisiag : 
trustjug  by  dint  of  subtilty  of  argument  and 
fierceness  of  attack  to  make  good  their  footing, 
and  to  prevent  their  opponents  from  carrying  the 
wu  accost  the  border.  Their  tactics,  so  often  snc- 
cewful,  may  on  this  occasion  have  deceived  many 
who,  ignorant  of  facts,  are  carried  away  by  loud 
talking;  and  this  the  more,  unce  the  English 
knights,  forbearing  to  culpability,  would  seem  to 
be  suffering  from  an  onslaught  of  ruling  prieots 
or  of  BCoIdmg  women,  and  aye  acting  on  the  de- 
fensive of  a  consequence,  have  never  once  charged 
home  nor  have  smven  to  turn  the  tide  of  battle 
in  the  opposite  direction.  No  one  can  admire 
courteous  forbearance  more  than  I  do ;  for  I  bold 
it  to  be  unseemlv  to  batter  out  the  braina  of  a 
braggart  with  a  bludgeon,  when  he  can  be  deli- 
cately despatched  with  a  small  sword.  By  mcb 
observances  the'  man  of  refined  feeling,  in  nutters 
military,  is  ever  careful  to    avoid  unneceMuy 


S46 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [4'»s.Tii.A»miLM,'n. 


violence,  unit  to  mttrk  the  great  gulf  fixed  be- 
tween the  knifrbt  »nd  the  butcher  or  the  bni^Isr. 
Let  the  Eaglinb  order  beware,  however,  leat  the 
chant;  and  forbearance  of  its  membprs  de^ne- 
rate  ioto  wenkneea.  True,  their  good  deeds  ba?e 
hitherto  pnlisCed  our  sjinpatbies  in  their  favour, 
but  we  like  men  to  have  stiff  backbones  for  all 
that. 

HoHuncuLDS  had  his  own  way  with  me  as 
Tieual,  and  he  wrote  tfl  "  N.  &  Q.  whilst  I  re- 
mained uknt  Hia  excellent  cal  fell  into  fire 
ratber  than  upon  troubled  waters,  and  the  com- 
batants'went  at  it  again,  attack  and  defence,  aa 
bard  ag  ever.  And  what  has  this  peace  policj, 
this  self-reatraint,  brought  npon  these  Ejiglish 
knights?  A  Bunvan  has  arisen  to  plague  them 
(4*^  S.  vii.  100) ;  an  npolo^e  baa  been  brought 
to  bear  upon  them,  and  the  jesters,  marotte  in 
hand,  will  beat  them  out  of  the  lists,  unless  the; 
pluck  up  heart  o'  grace  and  at  least  ulence  B.  P., 
who  with  bis  alleaorT — that  ill-conceived  and 
fearfuUj  and  wondermll;  made  instrument  of 
salf-destructioD — has  already  done  himself  a  mis- 
chief, and  may  be  eauly  disposed  of  by  any  single 
knight  who  won't  mind  about  eloung  with  him. 


come  recentl;  to  England  on  a  mission  &om 
Rome,  hia  pretensions  would  have  provoked  but 
a  smile,  had  he  not  proved  so  pertdnaciously 
agflresMve.  Should  he  fail  to  emend  and  to  disarm 
public  criticism  by  imitating  the  charitable  ex- 
ample of  the  good  knight  whose  name  he  has 
assumed,  let  him  look  for  small  mercy  from  all 
who  wear  nineteenth -century  spectacles — who, 
■viewing  with  distrust  and  dislike  any  symptom  of 
a  return  to  the  bigotry,  intolerance,  and  spiritual 
terrorism  of  the  Uiddle  Ages,  mean  to  ke^  Eng- 
land for  the  English;  and  who,  in  comparison 
thereto,  care  but  little  by  what  name  a  body  of  their 
countrymen,  long  united  for  purely  philanthropic 
parposes,  may  choose  to  be  known,  or  what  ancient 
oonfratemity  they  may  legitimately  represent 

I  challenge  D.  P.'s  representative  man  to  sub- 
mit, if  he  dare,  to  the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q." 
Eroof  of  the  claim  he  has  so  loudly  taken  upon 
imself  to  assert ;  after  which  (to  borrow  a  sen-  ' 
tence  from  the  great  allegvrist),  it  will  "  remain 
to  be  seen  what  O^ioo  will  do  for  the  new  Mr. 
9t.  John."  Mn.Ba, 

Sot  QoBOBOxrs  TiirTACK  regrets  that  his  name 
nbould  have  been  introduced  into  a  discusuon 
relative  to  the  claims  of  a  Mr.  St.  John,  who  has 
recently  arrived  in  this  country  from  Italy. 

D.  F,  is  informed  that  Mr.  St.  John  must  ad- 
duce evidence  before  the  constituted  authorities 
in  support  of  hia  alleged  descent  from  the  ancient 
family  whose  name  he  has  assumed,  ere  he  can 


legitimately  hear  the  arma  of  that  illastriooa 
bouse,  or  can  with  propriety  question  the  rights 
of  others. 


THE  BOOKWOBlf. 
(4"'  S.  vi.  627;  viL  65,  168,  269.) 
The  following  elegant  lines  will  be  read  by  the 
schohuc  with  interest,  alike  from  their  merit  and 
the  excellent  cautiona  they  give.  The  author  was 
I^erre  Petit,  a  [ihTacian  of  Paris,  who  cultivated 
Latin  poetry  witn  such  success  as  to  earn  for 
himself  a  place  among  the  eminent  men — Rapin, 
Commire,  La  Rue,  Sanleuil,  Menage,  and  Duj>er- 
rier  who,  with  him,  ware  held  to  coi  '' 
celebrated  poetical  "  Pleiade  "  : — 

"In  BLlklTAK, 

InKcti  genus,  libria  infbnum. 
[Dvimm  Hniis  pecai,  ladix  bettii.  peitii 


ChsrtMTim, 
Tddii  ucrrw  ■ 
DiTii 


Te  potitu  di 
Quod  — 


et  genaa  ande  li 
te  parpara  pucAt, 
ilier  DsrdMii  pinail  opus. 
Di  Mdu  Miiddu 


TevMUrofavos 

Admonait  docto  carmine,  plrva  qufr«n>i 
At  tn,  prob  fscinut  I  loage  Tn«llon  Dcoram 

Dona  rapi)  :  qainto  hac  fnude,  •eekata  mi{[ia  1 
Quid  JnvaC  in  libria  lantoa  pmuisse  labotas  ? 

Si  qaoB  condidlmus  pcrdere  blatU  potest. 
Qaid  loquor?   aat  cgiue  nunc   mihi  meatem   iniania 

Id  rapidoc  abennt  improba  dicla  notus. 
Non  tn,  Blalta,  sed  eet  culpanda  ignavia  noatni. 

To  lint  ipsa  doc«s,  at  prior  ilia  noceU 
Sod  raaidM  cbiitsa  tenebria  damaamua  upacia  ; 

Tn  male  coropoaitaa  aadula  carpia  apea, 

0  atinam  infaanoi  pouea  quoqne  rodert  nummoa, 
Abdita  quos  parci  Btrangulat  area  acaia. 

Qnia  damuel,  quod  tie  apreiaa  uldBceris  art«a  ? 

Hnsamm  impnlaa  fbnitaa  ore  mavea. 
Hand  aliter  vatea  faatn  iriitata  tTraonj, 

Didtur  Axiaanila  t^ta  dediase  facia. 
Si  tameii  in  te  aliqna  eat  pi^taa,  venerare  priom 

Cans,  nea  Baclia  acripta  veranda  pets. 
Nnnces  potina  qui  prostant  andiqne,  libroa 

Conure,  sunt  digni  denM  perire  tuo. 
Haw  Ftiam  que  Insi  in  te,  mala  carmina,  fldens 
Abaumaa  per  me ;  aunt  Ina  namqae ;  licet." 

Petri  Petitl,  Philotophi  et  Doetoria  Bfedid. 
Sdtelorum  Pomaimm,  Hbri  dun,  kc.,  8vo, 
Pariaiii.l6B3,p.41. 

1  have  lon^  been  in  the  habit  of  marking  with 
a  small  pencil"  tick"  any  vermicular  perforations 
that  I  have  found  to  exist  in  a  newly  acquired 
book,  and  have  thus  been  able  to  ascart^n  be- 

{ondadoubt  that  this  insatiable  marauder  has  not 
eld  the  contents  of  my  own  dielves  sacred  from 
his  depredations.  Moreover,  I  have  observed  that 
certain  old  books,  which  I  have  had  lebacked 


4»aTiLApwLM,7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


mTBelf,  hftve  saffered,  especidly  at  tbe  iotenisl 
flexun  of  the  "  end-papera,"  and  tbis  wKeu  I 
could  not  fiad  a  cotrMpondiDg  external  apertura 
of  eatrance.  The  maggot  itoelf  I  have  often 
Been  "ciibb'd,  cabin'd,  and  confined"  in  a  pri- 
\  of  his  own  construction,  and  thus  causing 


«  of  sevenl  pages  together.  Theonljpre- 
Tsntion  is  the  frequent  taJiing  down  of  your 
books,  remoTing  the  duet  front  the  top  edge  and 
the  headband  with  a  brush,  and  beating  them 
well  together  out  o'  window. 

Wiujui  Batbs. 
Bimhigbaoi. 

So  Mb.  Blasbb  caught  a  worm,  and  I  "  nipped 
it  in  the  bud  "I  I  regret  to  have  frustrated  hia 
biographical  intentions,  hut  am  consoled  b;  the 
teflection  that  hie  plan  of  maUag  a  papa-  cage  for 
hie  prisoner  wae  almost  as  likely  to  answer  its 
purpose  as  would  be  an  attempt  to  confine  an 
elephant  in  a  cobweb. 

■  The  Shade  or  Db,  Bandihel. 

EIraiui  Fieldi. 

In  the  very  interesting  account  given  by  the 
Rev.  F.  T.  Havebgil  of  these  pests,  he  says: 
"  They  have  a  hard  outer  okin,  and  are  of  a  dark- 
brown  colour.  I  have  never  found  these  insects — 
wontu  they  are  not — alive  and  at  work."  I  beg 
to  inclose  one  of  the  tteoad  kind,  mentioned  by 
Mk.  Hatekoal,  which  I  have  just  caught  "  alive 
and  at  work,"  underneath  a  small  heap  of  saw- 
dust  of  its  own  making,  on  an  old  book-ehelf, 
which  I  fear  J  shall  have  toconsigu  to  the  flames, 
as  every  year  I  find  a  greater  number  of  holes  in 
it.  As  to  the  first  kind  of  iusects,  with  a  hard 
outer  skin,  and  of  a  dark  brown  colour,  the  wood- 
boring  beetle,  with  wings,  I  cannot  but  help 
thinking  it  is  one  and  the  same  species,  onlv  at  a 
different  period  of  the  year.  A«  the  caterpillar  is 
changed  first  into  a  chrysalis  and  then  into  a  butter- 
fly, so  I  fancy  these  small  white  worms  with  a 
hard  brown  substance  at  head  and  ttul  are  after- 
wards turned  into  the  small  brown  beetle.  This 
conjecture  arises  from  the  fact  that,  going  habitu- 
aUj  to  the  country  later  in  the  season  than  this 
year,  I  have  alvi-aya  seen  the  beetle,  and  never 
the  worm  before,  at  work.  P,  A.  L. 

There  is  a  very  iateresling  poem  on  the  "  Book- 
worm "by  Dr.  Thomas  Pamell,  but  which  is  said 
to  be  (in  one  of  my  copies  of  the  works  of  this 
poet),  an  "unacknowledged  transbtion  from  a 
Latin  poem  by  Beza."  Is  this  statement  afTecting 
the  onginality  of  the  poem  correct  P     J.  Pekbt. 

Wsltbam  Ahbty. 

The  bookworm  being  now  fairly  hnnted 
earth,"  is  it  not  time  to  refer  to  Painiell'  ' 
little  poem  upon  the  subject  P 


'tr^ 


ORIOm  OF  THE  SURNAME  CUMNlNGHAll. 
(4«  S.  iii.  poMim ;  iv.  62, 179 ;  vil.  221.) 

It  may  be  necessary  to  recollect  that  this  term, 
besides  being  a  personal  surname,  ia  also  the  name 
of  one  of  the  three  great  divisions  of  the  county  of 
Ayr — that  which  is  aeparatad  from  Kyle  by  the 
Irvine,  as  Eyle  is  from  Carrick  by  the  Doon. 
W.  F.  (2),  quoting  an  entry  in  the  Kirk  Sesmoo 
records  of  Dundonald  P.  of  21  June,  1607,  in 
support  of  the  eorte;/  theory,  adopted  by  him,  as  It 
would  appear,  in  the  wake  of  the  author  of  Oofe- 
donia,  has  evidently  misread  that  entry.  Stein 
Wilson  in  Qailes  (now  generall;r  written  Oayles, 
a  farm  well  known,  situated  a  mile  and  half  or  so 
south  of  the  burgh  of  Irvine,  and  in  Dundonald 
P.)  is  given  up,  or  reported  to  the  Kirk  Session 
as  having  transgressed  the  discipline  of  the  kirk 
in  having  shot  with  a  hackbut,  "at  ye  connyngis 
in  Corsbie's  Conyngam  in  SL  Uadanes,"  on  a 
Sundav,  fifteen  days  before.  W.  F.  says,  that 
"Corsbie's"  means  the  laird  of  Corsby's  Con- 

Sgam ;  that  is,  we  presume,  the  laird  of  CorBb;^'e 
\d$  called  Conyngam,  and  which  lie  in  or  witlun 
St  Hadanes.  Eitler  that  is  the  meaning  which 
W.  F.  puts  on  the  enfay,  or  he  may  possibly  sup- 

Eose  that  the  Laird  of  C.  was  sumamed  CiMyngatn. 
Q  the  latter  case,  however,  the  entry  would  have 
stood  Cortbie-Conyngam — meaning  land  called 
Corahie,  owned  by  Conyngam — and  not "  Corsbie's 
Conyngam,"  which  can  only  import  land  of  the 
name  of  Conyngam  belonging  to  the  Laird  of  Cors- 
bte.  Neither  coajectuie  will  stand  an  examination. 
Dundonald  parisn,  including  Qailes,  a  three  pund 
land  of  old  extent,  is  in  Kyle,  not  in  the  Cun- 
lam,  district.  There  is  no  land  in  Dundonald 
parish,  or  even  in  Kyle,  called  Convngam ;  and 
none  of  the  lairds  of  Corsbie  ever  bore  such  a 
surname.  That,  on  the  other  hand,  was  Fullerton, 
deugned  generally  of  Fullerton,  or  Of  that  Ilk, 
but  yet  sometimes  of  Corsbie,  and  of  Dreghom. 
Corsbia  was  a  twenty  pund  land  of  old  extent,  on 
wnich,  prior  to  the  Ileformation  of  religion,  waa 
an  ancient  chapel  dependent  on  Dundonald.  W. 
F.'s  mistake  arises  simply  from  rBading_  Conyngam 
instead  of  Conyngair  (gair  or  gare),  signi^ing  a 
rabbit-warren,  one  that  was  "  in  or  within  a 
pendicle  of  land  belonging  to  the  laird  of  Corsbie 
called  St.  Madanes,  lying  contiguous  to  the  chapel 
of  Corsbie,  and  also  to  Troon,  a  fiouiishing  sea-port, 
where  is  a  way  or  street  now  called  St.  Medans. 
And  aa  the  old  religious  houses  were  alw^a  dedi- 
cated to  some  holy  person,  there  ia  much  reason 
for  believmg  that  Corsbie  Chapel  had  St.  Medan 
for  its  tutelar  saint.  Several  pariah  kirks  were 
dedicated  to  him,  as  for  example  Toakertoun,  called 
also  Kirkmedan,  in  the  presbytery  of  Stranraer,  and 
that  of  Kirkmaiden  (liie  cell  or  kirk  of  St.  Medan), 
Bums'  "  Maiden  Kirk  "  in  the  Rinns  of  Galloway. 
In  forming  an  omnion  of  the  oriein  of  Ctaiinit- 


348 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIEa 


C4«>8.TU.AraLtt,TL 


Aam,  it  nuj  not  tw  improper  fiu  W.  F.  to  cod- 
aider  the  eailiaet  fotms  in  whicli  the  name  ap- 
peaia.  TsKesiii,  s  .Welah  bard  of  the  serenth 
century,  call*  it  dmouan,  "  Carawg  (ssva  Mr. 
W.  F.  Slcaoe),  taken  in  comhinatioo  wiui  Coel 
tad  Ganauon  in  line  28,  shows  that  the  three 
arovincee  ot  Ayrshire — Canick,  Gyle,  and  CaninK- 
ham— Sfemeanf."  (IhurAnc.  Bookt  of  Waia,  u. 
407.)  The  Veu.  Beds,  in  his  Ecc.  Siitory,  which 
WW  finiahed  in  the  beginning  of  the  eighth  cen- 
tury, calla  it  /MctffMtmpim.  (Mon.  HuL  Brit. 
b.  V.  c.  12.)  The  chroiuclers  Hoveden,  and  Ben: 
AbbaB,  speaking  of  a  well  near  the  Kirk  of  St. 
Vinnin  running  blood  for  eight  snacessiTe  days 
and  nights  dunng  the  year  1186,  am  this  well 
lay  "  infra  Cuninham  " ;  (i.  e.in  the  fowerpart  of 
C.,)  and  near  to  the  Castle  of  Irwine.  And  ia 
many  charters,  copies  of  which  are  preearred  io 
the  monkish  registers  of  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth 
centuries  and  later,  although  the  orthogri^hy  is 
very  rarious,  it  is  generally  found  assuming  the 
forms  of  Koaingkam  and  Cumgkam.  Keeping, 
these  early  forma  of  the  naine  in  view,  it  may 
be  a  proper  subject  for  inquiry  and  consider' 
ation,  whether  names  of  placee  in  Anahire,  in 
the  time  of  Talieein,  Bede,  Hoveden,  Benedictus 
Abbaa,  &c.,  could  be  other  than  for  the  most  part 
Celtic  (British,  Welsh,  Erae,  ot  Gaelic),  or  at 
leaet  Celtic  with  some  little  admixture  of  the 
apeech.of  the  Scandinavian  population  of  the 
called  kinedom  of  Northumbria,  in  which  the 
western  sniies  <^  Sootiand  were  sometimes,  and 
for  periods  greater  and  lesser,  included.  (Bede'c 
Sitt.  T.  13 ;  RobertMn's  Eartg  Kittgi.) 

ESFEDA3B. 

"  Gbalmen  points  oat  that  Ctmiag  is  the  British 
-rabbit,  and  Ast  Ommgham  simply  means  'the 
^oe  where  rabbits  abaund.'  "  The  Saxon  word 
«n,  rabbit,  or  as  it  wm  formerly  spelt, 
I  (see  N.  Bailey's  Didiomry)  has  " 
family  likeness  to  Cttmn^utm.  P.  A.  I<. 


ROSEMARY  USED  AT  FiraEEALS. 

(4"'  S.  vii.  206.) 

In  South  Lancashire  the  use  of  rosemary  in 

funeral  rites  is  still  observed.    The  injonction  of 

the  Friar   may  yet  be  heard   (albeit  in  other 

wot^:- 

"  Dry  np  your  tears,  and  stick  your  rosemiiy 

On  thu  Mr  oorae." 
Sprigs  of  rosemary  are  placed  on  the  corpse  as 
it  lies  reeeivinK  the  last  visits  of  old  friends ;  and 
it  is  also  usual  to  scatter  them  in  the  grave  as 
the  parson  reads  the  most  solemn  words  of  the 
Bolema  burial  service.  Mr,  Brierley,  whose  pic- 
tures of  Lancashire  life  are  generally  marvels  of 


photographic  accural^,  has  not  omitted  thia  Caar- 
tnre.  In  dasciitnng  the  Old  Hontaman's  fuuetal 
he  says ; — 

"The  old  himtuiai  eatbered  ronnd  the  grave  in  a 
BoUd  ring,  eadi  holding  oi*  dog  b;  the  dip,  and  vbea 
the  dual  oiXo  fo  ajui,  dial  to  dtat  was  proQOOQoad,  the 
whole  strewed  Uielr  aprigi  of  roasmsir  over  tlie  coffln, 
then  raislDC  tbdr  heus.  Klva  a  ibnaltaiMcnu  '  To-ho  I 
talty-bol'the  aoand  of  i^oh  beoame  b«ight«Bed  by  the 
dog* joining IbnrToioes  aa  thayrangUu  lart  eryom 
"■-ir  'eartbed' companioa."— Qtnniu/u  of  Wmrlam, 
64.) 

[t  is  alao  alluded  to  in  Mr.  Edwin  Waugh'e 
poem  of  "  Owd  Enoch  "  :— 
"  An*  when  they  pnt  Enoch  to  bed  down  i'  Ih'  greawnd, 

A  rook  o'  poor  neighboon  sloode  bufr-yedded  naimd  ; 

They  dinpt  sprigs  o'  raatmtry,  an'  thia  wnr  their  tozt, 

Th'  owd  ciajteA  laid  by— we  m«j  haply  be  th'  next.' 

Rosemary  was  one  of  poor  Kirke  White's 
favourite  flowers ;  and  one  of  his  poems,  tingod 
with  that  melancholy  which  pervaded  his  writinM 
and  seems  almost  prophetic  of  his  untimely  end, 
is  addressed  to  that  sad  herb : — 

•'  Come,  funeral  flower,  who  loveit  to  dwell 
With  the  pale  corse  in  lonely  tomb, 
And  throw  scron  the  desert  gloom 

A  swnt  decsjing  smelL 
Come,  pna  my  Ups,  end  lie  with  me. 
Beneath  the  londy  alder  tree, 
And  we  shall  sleep  a  pleuent  sleep. 
And  not  e  care  shall  dan  intrude 
To  breik  the  marble  aoliCade, 
3o  peaceful  and  so  deep." 
In  a  little   volume   entitled  JJoieeri  and  Uieir 
Poetry,  edited  by  J.  Stevenson  Bushnoo,  M.D., 
London,  1851,  and  which,  from  its  pleasant  sub- 
ject and  the  poetic  end  artistic  taste  it  displays, 
would  delight  your  correspondent,  I  find  another 
poem  dedicated  to  the 

"  SOS  KMART. 

"  Sacred  to  aorrow  and  the  deed ; 

SishB  an  called  ap  where'er  ws  sec 
Thy  elossoms  strewed  epon  the  bed 
Of  Silence,  Ros-Uarie  I 
"  We  look  upon  ■  cold  still  face, 

Yet  calm,  rssigned  to  Heaven's  decree ; 
And,  sprinkled  o^er  tbe  shrond  we  tree* 
Thy  bloeaams,  Kos-Harie ! 
"  Thy  TBiy  odour  to  tbe  sense 

Prescbes  of  scenes  where  sorrows  \it. 
And  of  some  spirit  summoned  hence 
To  judgment,  Roe'Meriel 
"  Better  by  far  the  house  of  woe. 

Then  that  of  Isngbter  i  and  tbroogh  thee 
Nature  would  to  the  thougbtlMs  ehow 
That  homily,  Ros-Hane  t  " 
It  was  formerly  used  for  bridals  as  well  as 
burials,  and  to  these  "  two  ends "  there  is  an  ollu- 
Herrick's  "  Hesperides,"  as  well  as  u 


poem  vrith  which  Mr.  Kikdi  is  probably  bmiliar, 
"DosMadchen  unddieBlumen,''by  A-Schrelber, 
in  which  the  Rosemary  thus  addresses  the  Maiden : 


4>»8.Tn.Araii,22,'7i.3 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


349 


"  Wihie  mich,  denn  tudOoA  blndet 


JoruoD  StTMt,  8trugaw*7«. 


BNOLI3B  DESCENT  OF  DANIEL  ffCOmiELL. 

(4*a  iii.  76;  yii.242.> 
I  agree  with  yoor  correapondeDt  H.  as  to  the 
eChcaUed  "  Iriab  pure  Celt "  (]if  in  Iielaod  or  «lee- 
whare  there  be  auch  a  thug  as  "pure  Celtic 
blood,"  which  I  Terf  much  doubt),  that  no  ooe 
tnao  of  that  race  ever  attained  "  reil  neatness  in 
literature,  edenice,  act,  political  or  nmitarj  life." 
That  a  1m^  Gothic  dement  exists  in  the  race  of 
modem  Insh  is  paiet  all  doubt.     Celtic  philolo- 

""' _!._-  .1. 1  —    bout  the  "  --■-'—- 

„  ^  Their 
thia  subject  are  to  me  as  irratdoDsl  as  the  apecu- 
tatione  of  Lord  Honboddo  on  the  primitive  elon- 
gation of  the  TertebrsB  in  the  human  species,  or 
the  more  recent  vagaries  of  Professor  Darwin. 
We  find  even  Lord  Brougham,  great  man  that 
be  wna,  attributing  hia  auccesa  in  Ufe  to  the  (aup- 
posed)  Celtic  blood  inherited  &om  his  mother: 
just  as  the  eminent  Chief  Justice  Hale  entertuned 
the  belief  of  witchcraft,  which  shows  that  even 
men  of  geniua  are  not  always  superior  to  the  pre- 
vailing deluaion  — 

"  The  one  hero  beulng  a  Celtic  Dame  of  whom  the  Iriah 
Otta  are  moat  pioad,  gtorrlnr  In  faim  as  tbeir  representa- 
tive mam — 'Inah,'  aayi  Mr.  Lenihan,  <in  even' elemeot 
of  luB  baag,  bead,  heart,  blood  [ '  ia  no  '  pan  Iriah  Celt ' 

So  writes  jour  correspondent  H.  Whatever 
be  hia  lineage  (and  I  see  no  reason  to  doubt  the 
•ccount  given  by  jour  correspondent),  it  is  at 
least  certun,  that  the  name  O'Connell  ia  aa  None 
as  Norse  can  be,  and  afibrda  a  strong  presumption 
of  a  Gothic  element  in  the  blood  of  the  "  great 


"Hif^t  «e,"aa5i  Ftttsaaoo,*  "  »na  go  on  to  aak — 
bnt  ben  we  tread  on  teoder  Kroond— whether  O'ConoSU 

'   "  'riahmui  "    "      " .■---- 

imone  I 


i  there  a: 


waa  EMte  than  hair  an  Iriahmin?    Konoll 

g  tbe  Noi 
six  of  that  aama  meatii 

of  original  aettlera  io  Iceland,  The  name  itaelf  appear* 
in  form  tobe  Scandinavian,  and  to  have  a  clear  etymon  in 
Old  Morse    imr,  a  noble  or  illustrioua 


the'khigat 


^ . . ,  title  enough  6r 

name  Coonell,"  continae* 


and  oSr,  all — '  ill  kins,'  an  ac 

igofalllreLni'    The 

ter,  "  ia  by  no  means  .  _ .  . 

North  of  England,  where  it  mieht  moat  Datiirall7  be  anp. 
posed  to  be  derived  from  the  Danes  or  Northmen.  The 
respecUve  preBies  'O'  and  '  He.' in  Ireland  and  Scot- 
land, might  indicata  a  croaa  between  the  natlrei  and  the 
Noithani  aetUers,"  &c 


It  has  Hlreadj  been  shown  in  the  pwes  of 
"N.  ft  Q."  tiiat  the  pstjonrmic  prefix  "  liuc  "  ia 
not  Celtic,  but  Gothic.  Thomson,*  speaking  of 
the  settle  ,nent  of  the  Scots  in  Ireland,  whom  he 
hoLia  to  be  of  the  same  Gothic  origin  with  the 
Fiats,  aaya  that  "  much  of  their  language  pervades 
the  Irish  or  Erse,  where  the  Terr  terms  of  family 
descent,  such  aa  'Mac'  and  'O,'  are  apparently 
Cbthic."  Another  writor  of  credit,t  in  regard  to 
Ireland,  informs  us  on  the  authority  of  Tacitua,  and 
"on  every  evidence,  historical  or  traditional,"  of 
"  the  introduction  at  some  very  remote  period, 
rather  by  conquest  or  colonisation,  of  a  distinct 
race  from  its  original  inhabitants  ;  in  proof  of 
which  he  mentions  the  peaaaotry  id  the  eMtem 
and  midland  districts,  who  exhibit  the  "  blue  eyea 
and  flaxen  hair  peculiar  to  the  German  tribes." 
In  fact,  the  doctrine  of  Celtidsm  seema  to  me  a 
species  of  popular  delusion,  which  in  Scotland  at 
least  has  been  kept  alive  through  the  gratuitous 
assumptiona  and  unsatisfactory  conjectures  of  such 
writers  as  Qeoige  Chalmats,  Dr.  Daniel  Wilson, 
Dr.  John  Stuart,  nod  a  few  others  who  follow 
in  their  track.  Dr.  Petrie,  of  "  round  tower " 
celebrity,  waa,  I  suppose,  the  great  Irish  apcetle 
of  Celticism.  That  the  nomenclatures  of  Inland 
and  Scotland  poaseee  much  in  common,  it  would 


be  idle  to  deny;  but  that  that  element  is  abori- 
gnal,  and  not  merely  early  Gothic,  is  the  question 
still  to  be  proved.  Bilbo. 


CEARACIEBOFCoirSiaHIIKK:  TKACHAIA (4'^  S. 

vii.  303.)— See  my  Zecturei  on  Ihe  History  of  th« 
Etatem  Church,  p.  186,  third  edition.      A.  P.  S. 

[The  passage  reArnd  to  rmu  thoa :  —  ■<  He  (Constaa- 
tine)  had  a  contemptnong  habit  of  throwing  bacic  hia 
head,  which,  bj  bringing  ont  Om  fall  propoitiana  of  hr~ 
""  '        '    procured  ferhin-  -■■-  -'-"- '  '»^~■-'- 


thickni 


of  TVucAnii." 


question  is  one  of  curious  simplicity.  The  audi- 
ence stand  up  during  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus" 
because  of  the  peculiar  solemnity  of  the  words.  I 
have  known  it  done  during  the  preceding  chorus, 
"  For  unto  us  a  Child  ia  bom.''  It  is  like  the 
custom  in  moat  churches  of  standing  (or  kneeling) 
when  the  Lord's  Prayer  occurs  in  Uie  Lesson. 

LTTXKLTOir. 

Hagley,  Stoarbridge. 

At  the  first  performance  of  the  "  Measiab  "  in 
Westminsler  Abbey,  such  was  the  effect  of  the 
rendering  of  the  words — "  For  the  Lord  God  Om- 
nipotent reigoeth,"  that  the  king  (George  II.), 
who  was  present,  started  to  hia  feet,  and  remained 
standing  till  the  conclusion  of  that  portion  of  the 
oratorio.    His  example  was  instantly  followed  by. 


•  Etymon,  ofEngluh  WoTOt,  hv  tbe  late  John  Thoi^'  *■ 
[1,  H.R.I.  and  A.3.,  Edinbnr^,  1826. 
t  Mr.  J.  R.  Planch^  iBril'ah  Ounmu). 


NOTES  AKD  QUEBIES.  [*»8.tii.  ArBii.2J,Ti. 


the  entiM  coDgiegMion:  LeDce,  I  believe,  it  bu 
been  ciutomaiy  tta  audience*  to  sUiid  duimg  the 
rin^Dg  of  the  "  Hkllelujab  Chorus  "  ever  riooe. 

Two  Pabsisbs  w  "  TmoM  or  Athxhb  "  (4*  S. 
tL  43,  le^,  250,  356, 445.)— Not  being  a  congtant 
reader  of  "  N.  £  Q."  I  have  only  to-day  seen  the 
replyof  A.  H.  to  mysoggeatloD:  "  you  want  muA 
of  me."  Without  commeotiiix  on  hia  own  ex- 
planation, and  etiU  lesa  on  the  language  which 
he  has  thought  fit  to  employ.  I  only  b^  leave  to 
lay  before  your  readers  the  followiug  paMa«  from 
thewell-teown  ballad  of  "Gemutua"  in  Percy's 

"  Hi>  haart  doth  Uiinke  on  man}'  a  wile,. 
How  to  dftceirc  the  poon  i 
His  mDDth  la  almoat  ml  of  niiak. 
Yet  still  he  gapo  fbr  more." 


ditti  wanted  TromTimon,who  had  dug  up  a  large 
quantity  of  it,  but  after  his  experience  contemns 
it  as  the  merest  and  most  abominable  touh.  Com- 
pare OU«tto  III.  8 ;  "Who  etaala  my  purse  Hteale 
trash,"  The  repetition  of  much  in  the  two  suc- 
ceeding lines,  fw  horn  confirming  the  reading  of 
the  foUo,  ia  in  itself  rather  euspicious  and  pro- 
bably owing  to  the  eareleesneaa  of  the  oompositoi. 

Dntden. 

The  Orisih  or  AxcHBtsaoi  Susfokd  (4"  S. 


a.)- 


"Joba  Stafford  wai  ArehUahop  of  CanUtbuiy  and 
Cbancellor  of  Eoglaud  daring  aiime  <rf  the  moU  trootded 
veirs  of  the  reign  of  Henij  TI." 

This  note  siTee  me  some  hope  I  may  be  on  the 
scent  of  a  Stafford,  whose  Urge  mgnature  "  Siaj^ 
ford"  (I  shall  give  it  more  correctiy  when  once 
1  get  to  Paris,  if  ever  we  can  get  there,  and 
recover  our  goods  and  chattels)  le  on  a  large 
document  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VL  headed  with 
the  name  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford  (not  John  the 
Itegent  in  France,  but  his  brother  |and  successor 
ns  governor  of  Normandy.)  Why  it  is  signed 
Stafford  I  have  never  been  able  to  make  out. 

P.  A.  L. 

Rbhabkablb  Clock  (4*  8.  tii.  322.)— The 
dock  referred  to  ia  being  exhibited  at  the  Crystal 
Pahice  at  Sydenham,  where  all  particulars  may 
be  learned  respectiDg  it    It  ia  still  for  sale. 

J.  H.  J.  Oaklbt. 

The  Prioty,  Croydon. 

Ettmolost  Of  "  Ward  "as  *  Pbrsohal  Navb 
(4"'  S.  vii.  256.)— Uk.  Nichols  has  answered  his 
own  question.  Ward  is  guard,  and  both  have 
much  the  same  signiticBtion  as  herd,  i. «.  keeper ; 
et.  hoard  ^  a  treasure ;  something  guarded  with 
care.  Thus  the  gate-keeper  is  the  gate-ward,  or 
the  warder.    Wards,  in  Chancery,  imply  the  poa- 


seaaion  of  properly;  such  {wraons  would  have 
hereditary  or  territorial  destgDationa ;  a  ward, 
living  in  a  private  family,  say  with  his  qnele, 
would  have  a  name  otherwise  than  in  his  l^al 
capacity  of  "  a  ward."  SuppoMn^  a  minor,  or 
person  under  the  car^  of  a  guardian,  to  beooibe 
cast  awav,  so  that  he  is  separated  ftaax  bis  pro- 
perty and  his  guardian,  and  has  to  "  ahift  for 
himself,  Z  think  his  deagnation  would  be  applied 
from  his  adopted  emplovment,  and  that  he  would 
lose  the  name  of  "  wara  "  when  the  term  had  lost 
its  ugoificancy  as  rea^ards  himself,  and  never  be 
able  to  transmit  it  to  nis  posterity.  A.  H. 

J.  Q.  N.  (for  whose  knowledge  and  acquire- 
ments, if  I  guess  him  rightly,  I  have  much  reapect) 
says,  "Mr,  Lower  derives  the  name  of  L%ard 
from '  Ft.  legarde,  the  guard,  keeper,  or  wai^n.'  " 
But  was  U  garde  ever  a  French  worn  applied  to  a 
person  P  Garda  is  in  French  a  feminine  noun,  and 
its  meaning  is  the  same  as  our  guard.  (There  is 
the  French  surname  De  la  Garde.')  The  person 
who  guards  is  a  gardien,  our  guardian  or  warden. 
I  entertain  a  doubt,  theTefore,  whether  a  Ward 
was  really  an  officer  or  a  person  employed  in 
guarding.  IMd  the  writer  recollect  the  case  of 
LaKiamtOet  W.  (1.) 

"  As  Cyril  ahd  NiiHA.y  "  (4»  S.-vii.  321.)— 
Another  version — 

"  As  Cyril  ind  Nalhin  were  pusiiiE  V  Qneen's, 
Say.  Cyril  to  N.th.n,  •  We'^re  botTi  of  m  deans. 

And  both  of  as  bishops  may  be.' 

Says  Nathui  to  Cyril,  'I  nertaloly  shaU 

Stay  here,  to  look  aner  my  little  canal. 

And  yon  nuy  look  afUr  the  N«." 

A.P.  S. 
ECSTATICS  :     THB    "  ESTATICA "    OF    CaLDABO 

(4*3.  vi.475;  vii.  21,  123,  193.)— The  review 
of  the  Third  Series  of  Waterton's  Ettayt  tm  Nat. 
Sittmy  is  in  Fnuer'l  Magaane,  Dec  1857  (not 
1858),  and  is  the  first  article  in  the  number.  Hy 
memorandum  is  to  this  efifect,  and  I  have  verified 
the  correctness  of  it,  Williav  Batss. 

Birmingham. 

Bsabs'Eabs  (4"'S.  vii.  25a) —  The  mtnoiU 

was  called  bears'  ears  in  Suffolk  in  1830,  and,  fbr 

anything  I  know  to  the  contrary,  is  called  ao  stiU. 

G.  F. 

Or  as  pronounced  baiatrt,  is  still  the  popular 
name  atPrimnia  aurlcala  in  this  district,  and  in 
South  Lancashire  generally.  I  believe,  however, 
that  the  jilant  is  not  known  by  that  name  in  North 
Lancaahire.  Jaxks  Pbabsoh. 

Hilnrow,  near  Rochdale. 

It  is  asked  if  this  name  for  tbe  auricula  has 
long  been  disused.  I  reply  that  it  has  never  been 
disused.  It  is  the  comm<m  name  of  the  auricula 
in  the  Eastern  Counties;  and  a  clever  Scotch 
gardener  asanres  me  that  he  was  familiar  with 
the  same  name  in  his  youth  in  Scotland.    The 


4*3.yii.Ap»ii.K.'7i.]  KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


351 


flower,  Loudon  sajn, 

1697,  under  the  name  of  ■'  bean'  ears/'  or  mouQ- 
Uin  cowslips.  The  French  call  it  by  a  umilar 
name,  Oreillt  d'ouri,  and  so  do  the  ItalianR,  Orec- 
chio  forio.  Of  coucBe,  the  name  was  given  to 
the  plant  from  the  resemblance  of  its  leaves  to  the 
ears  of  a  bear;  but  it  is  to  be  netted  that  so 
ugly  a  name  should  have  ao  fixed  itself  upon  this 
very  beanUful  spedes  of  primrose,  that  in  manj 
places  it  ia  known  hj  no  other.  F.  C.  H. 

SxBDADDiB  (S'*  S.  ii.  326;  4"  S.  i.  498.)  — 
The  attempt  to  derive  English  words  from  the 
Greek  so  very  seldom  succeeds  that  1  hesitate 
mnch  before  sending  a  mostdoubtful  origin  of  the 
above  word ;  but  the  following  sentence  of  Pausa- 
niaa  (iv.  14, 1),  referring  to  Uie  close  of  the  first 

Messenian  war,  i  B)  i\\ot  t  aoXSil  nsri  tIi  rarplSai 

Jumf'oi  tJj  iflxofo'  Jff-nMirftjiTiu',  (acturee  a  ske- 
daddle so  well  that  1  wonder  whether  the  word 
can  possibly  come  from  ncfUrnvu. 

JOHR  DURH  QlKDHBS. 
Chitteiii. 

Bishop  FirtLBR  (4"'  S.  vii.  267.)  —  William 
Fuller,  Bishop  of  I^iuerick  and  Lincoln,  wse  the 
son  of  Thomas  Fuller  of  London,  merchant  I 
make  this  statement  on  the  authority  of  the  Ful- 
ler PediKTee,  communicated  by  James  Franklin 
Fuller,  Esq.,  to  MitfdUmea  Otneaioffiea  ft  H«- 
raldica,  vol.  i.  p.  216.  Chablxs  Sothbiuk. 

6,  H«adow  Stnet,  Hoas-aidt,  Dear  MsDcbettor. 

LoBD  Btboit'b  "Eholish  Babdb,"  etc.  (i'^  9. 
tlpamm;  vit.  33, 100, 107.)— "311  "wiUfind  the 
lines  "  0  Gemini,''  &e.  (as  given  by  me  in  a 
former  communication)  in  an  8vo  edition  of  Byron 
edited  by  Gait  and  nrinted  at  Paris.  Not  having 
the  volume  at  hana  1  cannot  state  whether  the 
Unea  occur  in  the  memoir  or  amongst  the  poems. 
I  am,  however,  certain  that  they  were  beaded 
"  Terricles,"  and  were  amongst  some  similar 
trifles  on  Wordflworth's  niiile  Doe,  the  "  curst 
old  woman,"  &c  &c.  The  very  personal  and  ob- 
noxious epigram  on  the  Prince  Regent  was  in  the 
same  volume,  which  was  a  scraping  together  of 
everything  Byron  had  written  or  was  supposed  to 
have  done.  The  *'  O  Gemini  I  "  reminds  me  ijiat 
the  Italian  peasants  frequently  swear  by  the 
twins  {GmttlU),  who,  I  presume,  are  the 

"  Great  twin  brethren  " 
Romulus  and  Remus.    Can  our  vulgar  exclama- 
tion have  a  aimilar  origiaF 

James  Hsskt  Dixon. 
A  ScBiniT,  OB  CnRiSTKAS  Pieok  (4*^  9.  vL 
ee7;'vii.  14fi,  301.)— Most  of  your  readers  have 
heard  of  the  great  painter  Joseph  Wright  of 
Derby,  and  some  have  doubtless  seen  his  works. 
He  waa  for  a  abort  time  at  Repton  School,  about 
the  year  1746.  It  is  aud,  when  there,  he  saw  a 
"ObristquB  {dece"  the  property  of  one  of  his 


achoolfellowa,  and  was  ao  atruck  witb  it  that  he 
determined  to  tiy  to  draw.  Thb  would  corro- 
borate F.  C.  H.*8  statement  of  a  picture  of  some 
kind  forming  a  portion  of  the  Christmas  piece, 
whilst  we  may  also  suppose  the  central  portion 
of  the  sheet  filled  with  specimens  of  writdng; 
hence  caUed  a  "scripmt."  The  anecdote  of  t£e 
ori)^  of  the  formation  of  Wright's  taste  for  paint- 
ing is  to  be  found  in  a  memoir  of  him  in  the  StH- 
qtioTy,  iv.  177.  JoHM  Picijoeb,  M.A. 

Bolton  Percy,  near  Tadeuter. 

Heraldic  or  Hbkalssic  (i'^  S.  vi.  468 ;  vii. 
273.) — Instead  of  CopietUme  in  the  county  of 
Chester  read  Capetlhoni«,  once  the  property  of 
theoldfamily  of  Ward,and  now  of  Arthur  Henry 
Davenport,  Esq.  JoHir  PtcxFOBn,  M.A. 

Bolton  Paicy,  neur  Tadculer. 

Stdkt'b  EnrnoH  ov  thr  Pratbr  Book  (4*  S. 
vii.  283.)~I  have  seen  a  copy  of  this  book  in  the 
library  of  the  Fitzwilliam  Museum,  Cambridge; 
but  not  being  a  resident  in  that  town,  I  cannot 
~sy  whether  the  university  or  any  of  the  college  ' 
_.hraries  may  also  possess  a  coot  or  not 

SAicnxL  Sakdars. 

S8,  Gloocecter  PUce,  Hyde  VtA. 

MxAHuia  o?  "  Fob  "  (4*  a  viL  96,  216.)— 
Upon  reading  and  considering  the  remarks  of  your 
correspondentfl,  Jakes  Pbabsob,  J.  Cx.  K.,  D. 
Qbddbb,  T.  A.,  and  Mb.  E.  Mabshau,  ou  this 
word,  they  appear  to  me  decidedly  to  lead  to  the 
elymologj  and  meaning  of  another,  which  is  of 
pretty  constant  use  in  a  certain  district,  though, 
as  for  as  I  am  aware,  it  has  not  yet  got  into  ue 
dictionaries.    I  mean  the  word/iM^er. 

There  was  some  time  mnce,  and  without  doubt 
continues  still  to  he,  hardly  a  form  in  the  western 
murts  of  Berks,  and  along  the  adjoining  parts  of 
Wnta  upon  the  river  Keonett,  which  does  not 
number  amount  its  labourers  a  f^^ger ;  and  hia 
duties  are  understood  to  be,  in  adaition  to  hia 
acting  as  the  odd  man  of  the  family,  to  look  after 
and  take  care  of  the  cattle  in  the  faim-yard,  and 
ily  them  with  what  is  necessary — hay,  if 
led,  cavings  and  other  things  from  the  bun ; 
the  latter  before  the  flul,  as  now,  alast  was  silent 
To  explain  his  connection  with  the  fog,  or  coarse 
grass,  I  am  supposing  that  before  ptmshea  were 
generally  enclosed,  and  the  whole  common  field 
Uirown  open  after  harvest,  being  then  cultivated 
lall  long  strips,  so  the  feed  which  grew 
upon  the  bauu  dividing  them  valuable,  the  fogger 
was  the  man  to  see  that  his  master's  cattle  were 
safe  and  had  their  share,  and  was  so  called  for  thia 
reason.  There  was  also  a  parish  officer  called  a 
hayward,  and  whether  we  derive  this  name  ftom 
heordtBord  or  hau-wani,  bis  duties  must  still 
have  been  to  look  after  the  fencee,  see  that  no  one  i 
oventocked,  and  keep  the  beaats  &om  straying  '  |  ( 
into  other  parishes.  ^ 


JJOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4''S.V11.Afbil22.-71. 


If  jtni  lak,  u  stnngen  are  apt  to  do,  what  u  the 
etfBiolag7  and  taeauing  of  jogger,  the  amwer 
flieneraUTUthatitisaccmuptKMiofpoi&fercr.  This 
u  banlly  latiafactoi^.  Sureljr  the  aimpler  and 
Ofttunl  explanation  is,  that  it  is  a  reguW  noua 
deacripliTe  of  the  offiice  of  the  man  who  found 
fog  for  the  cattle,  as  there  seems  little  doubt  that 
in  earl;  times  he  did.  W.  (1.) 

P.S.  Will  four  correspondent  T.  A.  for^ve  me 
for  saTicg  that  the  latter  grass  is  called  Jo&emutfA, 
not  lattermotdh  t 

OFin  (4'"  S.  TJi.  358.)— A  few  jear*  ago  I 
lived  m  the  Marshes  of  East  Kent,  and  was  com- 


SUed  to  adopt  a  plan  similar  to  that  described  by 
B.  Pieeoi  to  keep  the  gnats  from  biting  me 
during  the  night.    At  times  the  bite  (I  believe  I 


1  right  in  calling  it  by  this  term)  is  very  poi 
■onoQS.  One  evening  I  observed  a  gnat  between 
the  knuckles  of  the  third  and  fourth  fingers  of 
my  light  hand,  and  killed  it.  The  next  day  I 
observed  my  hand  was  swollen  a  little.  Inflam- 
mation rapidly  set  in,  extending  up  the  arm,  and 
nothing  but  a  severe  cauterising  just  below  the 
elbow  ^vented  it  going  above  that  joint,  when 
probably  erysipelas  would  have  followed.  As  it 
was,  I  carried  my  arm  in  a  Bliog  for  about  a  week. 
My  doctor  had  a  similar  case  mider  his  care  at 
the  same  time,  also  arising  from  the  bite  of  a 
gnat.  J..M.  C. 

"ThB  WoBLD    XUKNSD    UFBIBB    DOWTT,"    MC 

(4"'  S.  vii.  2S8.) — In  one  of  the  copies  of  Dug- 
dale's  WarwKkthire  at  the  British  Museum, 
amongst  other  MS.  additions  is  a  representation 
of  an  ancient  seal  of  the  Umberstade  Archers,  on 
which  the  same  idea  of  "  the  hare's  vengeance  " 
is  made  use  c^  as  a  pun.  A  Aore  on  its  hmd  legs 
is  carrying  off  a  dead  dog,  dangling  at  the  end  of 
a  stick  over  its  shoulder;  and  on  the  piece  of 
parchment  which  unites  the  seal  to  the  docu- 
ment (grant  of  frer  vjarrai  f)  are  written  the 
letters  eher  =  hart-cker .'  Sp. 

LoKD  Bkoitshui  Ann  Voltaibb  (4"  S.  vii. 
277.) — Mr.  Pictof  says — 

"  ThP  Saturday  Bevita  TW  UiS  6nt  to  c»ll  attention 
to  the  tale  '  Hemnon  ;  or  Banun  Wiidoin,'  p.  58  of  the 
memuni,  given  \ij  Lord  Brongfavn  u  a  apeonien  of  hia 
eari;  compoaitkni,  which  is  reallf   a  tiansLitiDn  Ihim 

Permit  me  to  say  that  the  Imxntat  Cornier 
pointed  out  the  error  or  misstatement  on  the 
lliursday  morning  previous  to  the  pubhcalion  of 
the  Satmrdag  Stvww,  havbg  thus  the  priority  by 
two  or  three  days.  Though  a  small  matter,  1 
traat  you  will  insert  this,  as  showins  attention  at 
least  on  the  part  of  the  proviudu  press.  The 
blunder  about  the  Nightingale  monument  waa 
pointed  out  at  the  same  time.  C. 

SlE  RiOBUtS  {not  ROBEBT)  BotLX  (4*^  S.  vii. 

283.) — I  hasten  to  inform  your  correspondent  P. 


that  I  gsA  the  statement  of  Sir  Richard  Boyle'a 
apparently  incredibly  rapid  journey  from  Cork  to 
London,  contained  in  my  Luxi  of  the  Lord  Chmt- 
csfiort  qirjrcbw^  upon  the  authority  of  Sir  Richard 
Boyle  himself.  The  passage  from  his  True  Iiemet»- 
brimaer,  containing  this  statement,  ia  quoted  in 
Lodge's  Peerage  ^  Ireland,  edited  by  Archdall 
(L  155)  i  also,  un^r  the  head  of  "  Boyle's  Speedy 
Journey  to  London,"  in  Gibson's  Hidorg  of  Cart, 
ii.  29.  J.  R.  OTLaHAOAir. 

IB,  SomDiOT  Hill,  Dahlia. 

JoHM  Fbll,  Bishop  of  Oitokd  (4*  S.  vii.  283.) 
For  once  the  Editor  of  "  N.  &  Q."  is  in  error. 
It  was  not  Dean  Samuel  Fell,  but  his  son  Deen 
John  Fell,  to  whom  Tom  Brown  presented  the 
witty  rendering  of  Martial's  distich.  Samuel  Fell 
died  Feb.  1, 1648-9.  Brown  was  bom  (according 
to  the  ifenny  Cgdopadia  Supplement)  in  1663. 
John  Fell  was  promoted  to  the  deanery  in  1660, 
which,  from  1675  to  his  death  in  1686,116  held  oa 
commatdam  with  the  bishopric  of  Oxford. 

There  are  several  verdons  of  the  translation  of 
the  epigram.  The  one  given  in  Tom  Brown's 
Worke,  edited  by  Dr.  Drake,  1760  (iv.  100),  difibrs 
slightly  from  the  version  in  "  N.  &  Q."    It  runs 

"  I  do  not  love  thee.  Dr.  Fell,' 
But  wbv  1  cannot  tdi ; 
Bot  this  I  know  fall  well, 
I  do  not  love  thee.  Dr.  FelL" 

H.  P.  D. 

SxoKins  IXLBSAL  (41'  8.  vi.  384,485;  vii.  198, 
293.) — The  annoyance  from  smokers  is  not  now 
for  the  first  time  felt.  Some  forty  yeara  ago  I 
happened  to  be  at  Caatellamare,  on  the  Bay  of 
Naples,  when  a  diplomatic  squabble  arose  on  the 
subject  with  the  court  of  Naples.  Prince  Leopold, 
the  king's  brother,  had  a  palsce  there  with  guards 
at  the  gate,  when  Mr.  Erakine,  our  attache,  and 
Captun  Lushington,  eon  of  Sir  Henry,  who  waa 
at  that  time  our  consul-general,  happened  to  stroll 
past  the  palace  quietly  smoking  their  cigars,  hav- 
ing no  Knowledge  that  they  were  transgreadng 
the  law  of  court  etiquette.  The  sentinel  pounced 
upon  them,  and  in  spite  of  their  remonstraucea  a 

Suard  carried  them  off,  and  they  were  kept  in 
urance  vile  for  the  night  Mr.  Hill,  our  minirter, 
interfered,  and  I  believe  that  an  official  ^ol^y 
was  made  for  the  contretanpi.  L.  R. 

jEStriT  MSS.  (4'*  S.  V.  680.)— W.  T.  will  find 
the  MSS.  at  Stonyhurst  College,  St  Petar's,  near 
Blackburn,  Lancashire.  D.  Power. 

Pimlico. 

MAirx  BiBHOFS  (4*^  S.  vii.  184,  293.)—  In  the 
list  of  Manx  bishops  given  at  the  last  refennee 
appears  Machutus,  with  tbe  approximative  date 
of  600.  A  saint  of  this  name  appears  to  bav* 
been  highly  venerated  in  the  south-wettam  f  arts 
of  Scotland,  and  espedally  in  the  andsnt  pnnd- 


4»S.T1I.  Apbil22,'710 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


palitr  of  Qallowaj.  Saint  Malo,  the  Latdo  form 
of  iraoae  name  ia  Macloriua  aod  JUacbutuo,  and 
who,  nnder  the  latter  designation,  finds  a  place  in 
the  calendar  of  tlie  English  churcli  on  the  I6th  of 
Nonmber,  is  said  to  bava  been  a  native  of  Mon- 
mouthshire, afterwards  bishop  of  the  cit;  of  Aleth 
in  Brittanj,  now  known  as  the  town  of  St.  Ha- 
loes, and  to  have  died  in  the  year  627.  The  Manx 
biahop — if  an;  one  of  this  name  ever  did  exist — 
must  M  a  different  person,  and  it  certunly  leema 
more  probable  that  the  saint  who  was  worshipped 
in  Scotland  should  be  a  bishop  of  Man  than  a 
bishop  of  Brittanv.  Can  anj  of  your  correspoa- 
danta  throw  any  Ught  on  the  subject  F 

£i>eaB  UacCulloch. 


Gbeai  Man  alluded  to  bt  Arnold  in  a 
Sbbkon  (4<^  S.  vii.  209.)— The  reference  ought  to 
h«Te  been  to  toI.  it.  p.  404  (not  v.)  of  Dr.  Ar- 
nold's Sainont.    Text  from  EzeUel  xx.  48. 

J.  E.  B. 

SiE  William  Stashopb,  1640-1680  (4"  8.  vii. 
269.)— Probably  Sir  William  Stanhope  of  Linby, 
CO.  Nottiogham,  son  of  William  Stanhope  of 
Linby,  who,  being  gentleman  usher  and  daily 
waiter  to  Queen  Catbeiine,  was  knighted  at 
WhiUhall,  July  26,  1683;  and  dyinpr  without 
iasue,  left  his  estate  at  Linby  to  the  Enrl  of  Har- 
rington.* (See  Brydges'  CoUiaa,  iii.  421.) 

Et.  Pa.  SniBLsr. 

Cbbbts  (4"  S.  vii.  257.)— The  following  notes 
mmr  he  of  use  to  Y.  6.  M.  Joseph  Edmondaon 
Id  bis  Jteraltby  (2  vols,  folio,  Loi^doa,  1780)  says 
(i.  188) :- 

"  OccatioDsIlj  we  meet  with  persons  bearinKtwoi 
on  their  carriagea  ;  but  this  practice  ia  to  be  coadei 
since,  by  the  strict  mlea  of  annorj,  wheoever  may 
assumes  a  crest  which  beloaged  to  another  fsmil; 
sboakl  lay  aside  that  nhich  is  borne  by  hie  own,  except 


their  shields  of  amis,  the  crests  of  all  tbe  families 
whose  aims  they  quarter  ;  bnt  ia  this  they  are  not  fol- 
lowed by  au^  other  nation,  and  In  tmtb,  the  absurdity 
and  impropriety  of  such  a  practice  ia  remarkably  strik- 
ioK,  the  instant  we  recollect  tbe  purpose  for  which  crests 
were  originally  designed.  Heraldic  writers  unirersallj 
agree  that  a  woman  cannot  bear  a  crest." 

Thia  is  confirmed  in  Burke's  General  Armory, 
edit.  1844,  p.  xii.  :— 

"  The  cmt  or  copaizanct  (derived  from  the  Latin  word 
crii(a,a  comb  or  tuft)  originated  in  the  tliirteentb century, 
and  served  to  distingnish  the  combatants  in  tbe  battle  or 
:  for  thia  reason,  no  crest  ia  allowed  to  a 


Mr.  J.  E.  CuBsana,  in  his  Handbook  of  Htraidry 
(1869),  hold*  the  aame  opinion  as  that  expressed 
fay  Eiuioiida(H) : — 


"  Some  writers  have  asserted  that  if  a  man  abonld 
marrj  an  heiress,  he  and  his  descsndania  are  permitted 
to  bear  her  tuilenial  crest  as  well  as  arms ;  but  this  can 
scarcely  be,  for  a  lady  la  not  entitled  to  a  crest,  and  ahe 
surely  cannot  confer  on  another  that  to  which  she  hat  no 
light  henelf."— Page  172. 

HEirBT  W,  Hbnfrbt. 

Maikham  House,  Brighton. 

L.  vos  Bebihovo  (4'"  S.  vii  257.)— In  tlie 
Imperial  Dietionary  of  Uraaertcd  StOj/raphj/,  pqb- 
liahed  by  W.  Mackenzie  of  Paternoster  Row,  &c., 
Mr.  G.  A.  Macfarren  states  in  his  valuable  contri- 
bution about  thia  celebrated  musician  (i.  432) ;  — 

"A  groundless  rumont  for  soma  time  prevailed  that  he 
was  the  natuial  son  of  the  King  or  Pms^ ;  and,  at  con- 
siderabls  pains,  he  proved  himself  to  be  the  lawful  child 
ot  Johann  Beethoven,  a  tenor  singer  in  the  chapel  of  the 
electoral  prince  in  his  native  town,  in  which  establish- 
ment bis  grandfather,  after  whom  he  was  named,  and 
wbo  was  aSo  a  composer,  sang  bass." 

Tbe  irr^larities  in  the  private  life  of  Frederick 
William  If.  were  so  notonouB  that  public  opinion 
credited  every  wicked  atory  told  of  him. 

CHABxae  Natloe. 

JOHH  Dtbr(4'»  S.  viL  232.)— Whatever  John- 
son may  aay  to  the  contraiy.  Dyer  ia  regarded  aa 
a  fine  poet  by  many  writers  who  are  better  judges 
of  poetiy  than  he  who  was  such  an  entbuuaadc 
nilnurer  of  Hoole's  Ta4*o.  Wordaworth  aaid  that 
Dyer  was  "  too  much  neglected."  I  know  "  The 
Fleece"  welL  It  is  a  genuine  English  poem,  re- 
dolent of — 

"Flora  and  tbe  country  green." 
And  then  what  noble  poetry  do  we  find  in  the 
"  Ruins  of  Borne,"  and  in  that  universal  favourite 
"  Qron^raj'  Hill  " — a  poem  only  equalled  b^  Shel- 
ley'a  "  Linea  written  on  tbe  Eu^anian  Hills,"  its 
refiex.  Have  we  any  modero  edition  of  Dyer  P 
STBPasK  Jacxsoh. 
[Tbere  are  two  modem  editions  of  John  Over's  Paemt, 
Wiltmolt's,  in  Rontledgc's  SriliJi  Pottt,  18S3,  and  Gil- 
flllan's,  1859.] 

CoRNiBH  Spokbn  ih  Dbvonbhihe  (4'*  S.  vii. 
11, 126.)— R.  C.  A.  P.  will  find  .the  statement  he 
refers  to,  and,  I  presume,  the  authority  for  the 
statement,  inPolwbele'a  l.'Morical  Vtewof  Devon- 
thire.  I  have  only  the  first  volume  at  hand,  so 
can  only  quote  from  the  contents.  In  vol.  iii. 
chap.  4,  "The  Norman-Saxon  Period  from  Wil- 
liam the  Conqueror  to  Edward  the  First,"  in 
section  iz.  he  gives — 

Nonnana  attempting  to  substitute  Norman-French 

he  Anglo-Saxon- the  English  attached  to  the  Sozoa 

language — the  Coma-British  m  Devon  and  Cornwall,  the 

volgtr  tongue — spoken  also  by  the  higher  ranks  of  people 

in  ComwaU,  and  ■  great  part  of  Devoosbire." 

Agun,  in  vol.  iv.,  "The  Saxo-Lancaafiian-  . 
Yorkish  Faiod,"  in  section  Ix.  he  says : —  .  J  (^ 

"The  Fren^language  very  gmerallj  adopted  in  Engr 
land— the  Al^o-Saxon  still  tbe  veraacnlar  tongue— Us 


3S4 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Comn-BiiUah  ■Imiwt  loat 
put  of  the  SoathMDi." 

JoEir  BAnriSTiB. 

St.  IHj,  Comwall. 

PA  I  nm  afrwd  mj  Giouitry  of  Comiik  Namtt 
joat  completed  will  not  be  considsred  coQclusive 
eridence  in  the  ws;  Mb.  Fissot  (p.  126)  would 
suggest  I  would  also  correct  an  error  in  his 
sUtoment  for  which  I  am  reapoosLble.  The  num- 
ber of  Cornish  nftmss  I  have  collected  begimung 
with  Roi  should  be  200,  not  400. 

Dehabivs  or  Drdsus,  3bn.  (Sbnior)  (4'*  S. 
vii.  06, 148, 223.)— The  coin  inquired  after  is  not  of 
Drusus,  but  of  Nero,  described  bj  Cohen,  No.  66, 
and  valued  hy  him  at  20  francs.  The  legend  on 
the  reverse  written  in  full  is  "  sacbksos  coofta- 

Ura    IH  "    OMtl    COSLWHO    SUPRA    KirXBBItK    RX 

SESATUS  CONSULTO.     For    tlie  meaning  of  the 
legend,  see  Eckhel,  Dart.  Num.  vi.  261. 

JoHiT  Etaits. 
Nuh  HilU,  Hsmel  HempsM. 

Paslrt  oe  Paslbwb  (4"  S.  vij.  210.)— Mr. 
Hblsbi  says  "  the  last  abbot  of  WhitlOT  was  a 
Paslewe."  Is  not  this  a  misprint  for  WhaBey, 
at  which  John  Paslewe  was  the  twenty-fifth  and 
last  abbot  P  Hsbhrkikudr. 

"  First  iMPBBSiioire ;  or,  a  Dat  nr  Ikdia  " 
(4*  S.  vii.  266.V--The  author  of  this  book  was 
Qnmey  Tomer,  elsq.,  surgeon  in  the  Bengal  army, 
and  son  of  Dawson  Turner,  Esq.,  of  Great  Yar~ 
mouth.    He  died  in  India  in  1846.        F.  H.  H. 

JoDioiAL  Oaths  (4**  8.  vii.  209.)  —What  does 
O.  mean  by  this  query  P  I  believe  "  the  class  who 
object  to  taking  oaths  in  courts  of  justice  "  object 
just  as  much  to  "  call  any  man  their  father  upon 
earth."  Our  Blessed  Lord's  command  han  no  re- 
ference to  the  natural  epithet  given  by  a  child  to 
its  parent.    I  thought  this  was  ■  truism. 

Hsrhbhtrudk. 


(rrom  which  pedigrea*  of  the  connty  tkniiUM  have  beoi 
■dviMdl;  omitted)  a  number  of  bUak  pagta  in  whliA 
the  »nb»CTiben  may  insert  mdi  ftmUy  records  or  pedi- 
graes  u  they  may  desire  to  pieeoivo. 
Tkt  CamJn  MiKdlamy.  Vobim,  tiu  Sixth.  (PtiMed. 
for  the  Camden  Society.) 

The  volamea  of  TTu  Macdlinj),  oocsmontlly  pot  fonh 
by  the  Camden  Sodety,  have  alBsye  been  among  tho's 
which  fiHind  meet  flvoar  with  the  memben ;  and  tboagh 
this  eizth  volume,  containing  as  it  does  onlv  three  ■«|«- 
nU  artidea,  exhlbila  ten  variety  thu  nenal,  a  glance  at 
the  nature  of  the  eeveral  papen  wili  show  Uut  it  do« 
not  lack  the  iatareet  of  its  predeeeeeore,  and  we  doubt  nit 
It  will  be  equally  accrptahle.  The  fint  of  theee,  "The 
LUb  of  Mr.  William  Whlttingham.  Dean  of  Dnrham," 
a  well-known  Puritan,  has  been  very  carefnlly  edited  by 
M™.  Anne  Everett  Green  ftom  the  original  in  Anthony 
Wood')  collection  la  the  Bodleian,  and  illastrated  by  a 
nnmber  of  original  docnmaits  in  the  Reeold  OBoe,  u  an 
iUnetration  of  the  life  of  an  accompUabed  Puritan  dinte. 
The  neil  article.  •'  The  Eari  of  Briatol'*  Defence  of  bii 
Nwodatloni  in  Spain."  valnaUe  as  it  u  in  itself  tat  the 
Urft  it  throws  upon  Brietol'a  oondoct,  and  the  aecrrt 
hbory  of  the  n^ociationa  in  which  he  was  ongagoi,  is 
made  etil!  mora  valuable  and  interesting  by  Mr.  Gar- 
diner's admirable  introduction.  The  "Journal  of  Sir 
Francis  WaUngbam  (Wm  Dec  1670  to  April  1588."  from 
the  original  in  the  poseeslion  of  Li8ut.-Colonel  Carew. 
may  somewhat  disappoint  the  reader  from  itsbrBTilyand 
teneneM :  bat  there  can  be  no  donbt  that,  brief  as  the 


NOTES  0»  BOOKS.  KTC. 
AHitbiryof&eKingdomofKtrri,.    By  K.  F.  Cusack, 

Author  of   the   Itluitnitcd  Hiitory  of   Irtlmid,    ^. 

(Longman.) 

If  it  {>  a  eood  sign  for  Irdind  that  one  of  her  sons 
ihonid  deroU  himielf  to  (he  pnparstioa  of  a  county  hia- 
toiy,  it  ia  a  no  leas  favourable  aijin  that  Che  author  ehoaid 
not  only  be  able  Id  exhibit  aoch  a  good  list  of  Sab- 
ecribeis  ll  graces  his  volume,  bnt  to  acknoirltdge  the 
ready  aaristance  wbich  he  has  rscHved  from  all  who  have 
made  Kerw— its  hiatory,  its  geologj',  its  natural  re- 
sonroes— the  anbjact  of  their  inquinee.  The  Men  of 
Kern  will  not  think  the  worse  of  Hr.  Cussck's  book  tor 
hla  aharp  criticiim  on  Mr.  Fioudei  and  ha  certainlv  d«- 
serves  credit  for  originality  in  Indnding  in  the  vduma 

*  This  is  Cohen's  venioa.    Perhaps  it  would  be  more 


to  atodenls  of  Eliiabethan  history  aa  to  j,uMi(r  the  Conu- 
cU  at  the  Camden  Society  in  committing  tham  to  the 
press,  under  the  editorship  of  Mr.  C.  T.  Merlin,  who  has 
executed  his  work  very  careftilly,  and  made  it  available 
to  all  who  deom  to  nw  it  by  a  capital  index. 

Books  ntcnivaii.  —  AinopAma.  fly  Sir  Alaiandra 
Grant,  Bart.,  LL.D.,  Principal  of  the  Onlversity  of  Edin- 
burgh. (Blackwood.)  This  now  volome  of  "The  An- 
cient Oasrica  for  Engliah  Eeaders,"  with  its  admirable 
iolroduclorv  aketch  by  Prvncipal  Gruit;  la  well  calculated 
to  maintain  the  character  of  ibis  nsrful  series.— Qwa*™ 
Ihirmmt  fl,  Sir  WalUfr  Scott,  Bart.  {A.  *  C.  Black.) 
This  ia  the  aixleenCh  volume  of  the  "  Centenary  Edition 
of  the  Waverley  Novels."  QMotin  JSunoard  was  even 
more  warmly  received  on  the  Continent,  at  ita  Bret  ap- 
pearance, than  in  EngUnd,  from  the  greater  familiarity 
of  the  readers  than  with  the  scenes  and  historical  allu- 
■iona  contained  in  it.— T*e  PrcUgat  to  Chaata'*  ««- 
In^vT  Taitt,  aith  Explnaalory  Ncla  aid  do— of,  oarf 
aLif'ofihtPotl.  fhrlhtUt^QiUigaiadSdacb. 
BdOtd  V  Waller  M'I,eod,  F.RG.8,  Ac.  (Longmam^) 
This  little  book,  calculsted  ss  it  ii  to  facilitate  the  read- 
ins  of  Cbtucer,  and  so  popularise  the  Father  of  English 
F^ry,  dewrves  the  good  word  of  aU  Chaucer's  admiren. 
Wa  learn  from  the  GwrnKm  thst  the  ffiatoryof^ij'i 
for  wbich  large  collsclions  were  made  by  the  late  Eev.  Mr. 
Streatfeild  and  our  Ute  valued  fri«^  "^^^^^JS 


L..™«,.i^  N.4Q.,"theItev.LambartB.LaiUng,ndllMr 
of  whom  lived  to  see  their  work  in  the  printer's  bands,  b 
now  to  be  brought  out  onder  the  aas|HC«s  of  the  Sentiah 
ArchBoloEical  Society,  by  Mr.  Godfrey  Fanasett,  FAA., 
a  gentleman  in  ev«y  wayqnalifled  for  the  work.  He 
eoUdts  information  eapedally  f"™  landowners  and  <^ersy- 
men  of  the  county,  reganfing  not  Mily  historic^  and 
irenealogical  ^ac(^  but  oven  local  phrasn,  proverbs,  or 
BuparstitianB.  Hia  addieaa  is  "  like  Fiedncts,  Canter- 
bury."   We  wish  him  an " 

DavTE.— The  very  valuahla  libn 
Klrkup,  of  Florence,  has  been  «•• 


V*R.yil.  A.mu.ii.li.i 


NOTES  AKD  QUEBIE& 


■  Hvaral  liSS.  air  ^«"UiTiuCoDiiDedia"orgnBt 
unportuiak 

"L«BOB  ]TA  Hdidrb." — Tbi  Boyal  Irlfh  Aetdemjr 
bu  Uuljr  pubUahed  >  Ikc^imlle  of  this  great  oollMtiMi 
of  Iriih  lagendi  of  tha  tvntfa  uid  clcTtnth  ccDlDTiea. 

IfohTDOF.— A  nniont  nuniMcript  ot  thin  nmui  m. 
muico  hu   bMD  laid;  aecn,   in  i 
▼olunM  of  about  1440  A^.    Tbe  ui 


Ihe  ApocTTpba,  ud  li  piobab);  truulated  fron  P«tru» 


Hariaus  Socirrr.— T1i«  ««ly  Henldi'  TMtatlon 
of  Oxford,  iDd  part  of  tba  TiaiUlioo  of  NoUingbam,  an 
k  tfaepnaa. 

Db.  Hookbb.— Tba  DIreebiT  of  tba  Bottplcil  Gardeiu 
U  Eew  ha«  left  toi  Uorocoo,  with  ■  tiew  to  coUecling 
tba  pUnla  irf  tbat  oonntiy. 

Bo(AL  Iirnmm<ni,  Albbmabik  Sthbbt. — Tbe 
airaiwaiiaita  ftor  tha  Piidaj  evening  lactnna  have  bean 
iMoed,  and  the  foHowloE  ace  annaunced  aa  Itetunrt: 
Prof.  Bliekle,  Prof.  OdUng,  Mr.  RalMon  (Cambndge), 
Prof.  Hnzl^,  Co?.  Jervdl,  Sir  J.  Lubbock,  Prof.  T. 
Andrewa,  and  ProC  TjndaiL 

BiMniioHAM. — It  i*  leporied  that  an  Inhabitant  of 
Binnlngbam  haa  given  the  moniBceut  nini  of  8,0O0f.  a« 
a  naoleui  of  a  faud  for  Inveatment  tbr  tbe  purdiaaa  of 
pktnm  to  be  exhibited  there. 

LOHDOS  InriRHATIOIIAI.  EXHIBITIOIt  OF  ISTI. — We 

nnderttend  tbat  at  tbe  StateOpeningon  tbelatofMaj, 
tbe  Chirf  Hnnldpal  Aulhori^  of  each  CltT  and  Town 
-'  -"^a  United  Kingdom,  tbe  Cbairmen  of  Chamben  of 


toral  Society,  tba  Offidal  Staff,  the  Reportera  fbr  tbe 
Exiiihition,  and  memben  of  Commitieea,  iriU  be  invllad 
to  take  part  in  the  Ceremony,  and  In  inapect  tba  Fine 


wiU  b 


mmpoaed  and  eondneted  by  Chenliat  Roanti ;  a  Psalm 
repreaentiiw  French  Huao,  compoaed  and  ooodnetad  by 
H.  Gounod;  an  Orenoce  repreeenling  Getman  Mnric, 
conipoaed  by  Dr.  F.  Hillert  ■  Cantata  repraeeDting 
Bdtlih  Hade,  ooapoecd  tod  oondncted  by  Hr.  Arthur 
SolliTiti;  and  "God  Save  tbe  Queen"  by  Ihe  Choroa 
and  AttdiiRioe. 

Hr.  Chafpbu,  and  all  other  lorera  of  OU  Popular 
Hudc  will  be  elad  to  liam  tbat  a  SetieaDT"  VnpuUuhed 
TradUional  Bdlad  AIn,  arranged  and  baimonised  for  tbe 
Pianofbrte,  &c.,  fVom  Cwica  procured  tn  tha  Coanties  of 
Aberdeen,  Banff,  and  Horay :  to  be  edited,  with  Worda 

forSint ....    .« 

Deanol 

HsMBa.  Macmiliah  &  Co.  annonnce  the  amoDd  to- 
lome  of  Profeaaor  Haaaon'i  ■*  Life  of  HUton,  narrated  in 
eumeetian  with  the  Political,  Ecclesaatical,  and  Literary 
History  of  hia  Time  ";  "A  ttetcb  of  the  Life  of  Chariea 
1L  Tonng,  Tragedian,  with  Scrapa  fl«w  bl«  Smi'a  Joor- 
— ■  by  Julian  Chariea  Tonng,  Beeur  of  DHington"; 
nKinnl^'a"A(Idat,orBCl>tlatmaa  la  tbeWeat 
a,  will  numerooa  lUnetratlona";  and  a  "Ufa  of 


Anthony  Aabky  Coopw,  Hint  Earl  oTSbaflMbnTy,  I 
1188,  bjVr.D.  OtriMlcv  U.A.* 


fiattttl  U  CarvttptttHltnU. 


H.  D.— Paialey  Piart,Dr  Faralay  Break^elane,  u,  at- 
cordha  to  Afr.  Prior'i  Fopnlar  Namn  of  British  Plants, 
AUAamiOaarvauu. 

J.  A.  J.—Dtdkud  xM  McnOi. 

SoDOB  AND  Uab.— W.  SpEKEK  wOl  Jind  lilt  Origin  of 
thatt  of  Soder  ami  Man  in  nut  i^'  b.  ill.  129,  and  (X< 
(vnu  of  tht  Wbatu,  WOH  teritt  T.  814. 

BradfubdiehSiB. — Bndigniom  literally  manai  ftraje'a 
man,  from  A.S.  Btyd,  bride,  and  Gum,  man. 

The  Boyal  Asbbkt.— ^cAom  rtcrnxd  latral  co»- 
■Hancab'ojH  icilh  refcrexrt  to  a  ii'/y  paragraph  on  At  sa^ 
jtct  of  Ou  Iriih  ChmrtA  Bill  Mna  -  nij/  axd  void,"  btnaiut 
Iht  £uA(^  v«r«  not  prtsaU  ichen  tit  Roj/al  alttnl  hu 
j/ivin  to  it.  If  tilt  AdveitiMr,  Daily  Sews,  and  Standanl 
dUd,  at  it  ouertad,  prinl  nich  a  paramapk  (uw  wy  if  ad- 
vitedly),  it  iBould  be  euriota  to  /mm  lour  tKi  lorilep  pro- 

T.  B.— /«  (A«  Gtrmanfarca,  nckelbening  it  tht  wnu 
of  tilt  DnU  or  Mtrry  AndrBo, 

AtaiKE.— J.  H.  L.'a  ortiofa  appoared  in  "  N.  i  Q."  oj 
Jan.  IS,  1870. 

H.H.  iire/oraflatAelateSJrC.  C.  LncU't  admirahit 
Eaaay  on  tha  Romaace  Langaagea. 

loHORAitua. — On  tht  firtt  ntt  of  blottiaffaptr  eonndt 
^  N.  &  Q."  l"  8.  viiL  186,  and  8"  8.  iv,  4a7, 

J.  B.  C—For  (As  mttic  btlitf  tiat  pigi  tan  tit  Hit 
vind,  tee  "  N.  &  Q."  1"  S.  viil.  100. 

BbBTIK.— W*  donbt  whttlitr  lla  mgravingt  <if  "  111* 
Lmtt  ofDtith,"  in  The  PortfoliD,  vols.  iii.  iwf  iv.  or*  , 
fr«m  lie  grttvir  of  llie  SemdtjOt  Uiey  have  no  rtiewiilaue 
to  tluM  Hi  (Ma  ortuli  lehich  iUnttmtt  tha  Dance  of 
Death,  paifu&ad  ia  1789.  Tlit  blodit  of  iKt  laUtt  awnl 
vera  liortip  ^Urwardt  datrot/td  by  firt  n  London, 
AnaOitr  t£tion  d^  Su  bMet  work,  wiA  ^eoodaUt  brntatimg 
Btmdt,  h*t  mmeh  ittferior,  loat  pnllithtd  in  London  at  a 
ndHeqmenl  period. 

JoNATHAH  BoDOHiBB. — EAxird  PhUlwt'i  "Lifl  tf 
Mitum  "  ia  prtjixod  to  MUtan't  Latlan  of  State,  Load. 
ISfrilimo.  Tiipnttmarli  qf  Hit  Brit.  Mat.  copy  it  609, 
b.lB. 

E>UTaM.-4*  B.  vU.  p.  Sd,  ooL  L  ihit^ll,  />r  -PMr 
faM-re-i-Pnta.-  gnzeobytiOOQlC 


OOg  Ic 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»3.VII.ApBn.*S,71, 


inrSLET  BB0THEB8'  NEW  BOOKS. 


II  ILL  LIBRAXIES. 

LETTERS  ON -INTERNATIONAL   RELATIONS 

of  lh»fl  lire  TuLaroM.  when  canAiUr  "Wl  e 

•il  vidi  llH  Dlwiat  lUlithetloD  Om  upgnnan  tt  Ibim  r*a 

■■d tdIddh.  In  wUeh  HwrivTHm  AiwutM<n(h>bi«- 
1b  bKoTfonnd.  Envmueti  u  Om  «bbuc  pukb  who  tn  dli- 


tmiT.M 


FAMILY  PRIDE.     B^  the  Author  of  "  Olive 
THE  FOSTER  SISTERS :    ■   Novel.     By  Ed- 


BLANCHE  SEYMOUR :  a  Novel.    3  vola. 
THE   MONARCH   OF   MINCING   LANE: 


NoveL  By 
Novel.  By  the  Hon. 
DESPERATE  REMEDIES:  »  Novel. 
ONLY  A  COMMONER:  »  Novel.    By  Hmnir 

UORFORD.   InU. 

THE  CANON'S  DAUGHTERS :   the  Stoiy  of 


N  COBSET. 

HARRY  DISNEY;    a  Novel, 


TIHSLBY 


[Jmi 


THE   NEW   VEIJ.nK-WOVE    CLITB- 
HOUSE  FAPSB. 

Uuialhctartd  AAd  tM  0«lT  bj 

PABTKIDGE  AND  COOPEB,  192,  Fleet  Street, 
Corner  of  Chancery  Lane. 


miOESTION.— THE  MEDICAL  PROFESSION 
^cvt  MOHscgrg  fbxpakation  c«  pefsins  u  f 

■edr.  BoUlsBottlB  udBniH.  am  k.M.,  brdl  FlH 
lOtmba.  ud  tbt  UamfteiiinTi,  THOkuJ  KORKUI. 


FABTSISOE    AND    COOFSB, 

MANUFACTDKIHQ  STATiOHEES, 
193,  Fleet  Street  (CoTDor  of  Chuicery  Lue). 
o  THE  cornrrBY  on  obdku 


SOrE  PAPCR,Cr«un  OF  Kb!,  a 
BtrVtXOFES,  Cmn  oi  Blue,  1>. 
XIlVEIiOPB,  * 


COLOUBED  STAKPIHa  OttUefl.  r 


U.  M.  nr  IjBMb  FoUabid  Btsd  CrM  Km  vinnd 
MOHnmLtn  luien.  from  Si.iUinel«Un,b<airi. 


SCHOOL  STJ.TIONEBYRnilM«tto 


lOSEFH    QILLOTT'S     STEEL    fESB. 


•OLD  brill  STATimisBa  (h 


G  '  "       ^ ^^ 

OBITBOH    FUBNITTTBB. 

d  EUBLEKATICAL 


LAXFLOiraE'S 
PYRETIC     SALINZ 

Hh  peenllar  aid  rtUArbble  pmezikt  In  HbdHka,  8«& 

Rlnh-nM.  Kvwntljw  ud  nijliic  Bmj,  SckLM.  ud  Dtlvr  T9 
iamitW>  ill  M»». lil.«Bttlh«  BOW  ^.—.bh.  mruMi 


B.  LAMPLOUOH,  11 


B  AdDITV  OF  THE  STOMACH.  BKABT- 
■ -TD  niDiaESTIOHi  ud  *i»Kl 

u.  HCHkiirateri^  to  LADoa 

>.,  ITLSgw  Bud  sunt.  Londoa. 


SAUCE.— LEA    AND    PERRINS. 


"TBI  ONLY  SOOD  8AD0X." 

Invram  iha  anctlic  nd  ildidlmllgii. 
IIYJXI.BD  rOB  WacASCY  AHD  TUVODB. 
>r  "liBA  ABD  PBUBIBTa'"  SAtrCS. 
r  ARE     OP     IMIT  ATI0H8, 


»  S.  Til.  Amu,  £»,  71.1 


NOTES  AND  QUEMES. 


357 


LOSDO!r,aiTOB!>ST,  APUIL  t»,18Tl. 

OONTBHTS.— H*  174. 

S0TK8:— AVord  fcr  llMn,3ar— Tvo  CanteMrlMii  of 
tbe  nms  Nbbb.  tn  -  Ste  Bdwlo  Suidn  Md  tha  BliboM, 
ns— Beowrkable  Altur.tiib  Id  Koniiidi  Catbadnl,  >W- 
Ihmci  ot  NoiMmeo  tn  CambsrtaDd  ind  WeMaanlwd  — 
Jcrt»— BMdjbso(cirSedliintfi-«MtJLiis1taHiValklK>ni 
Bowdns— "nie  Soutcr  and  Ui  Bow  —  Eitnonliau;  lUr- 
^«ea  — Chaac«ri  "Bthoo"— A  ForsoUea  Hoowrlit— 
the  0i7  tf  "TnaooD,"  sm. 

QDBBIBSt  —  "  Bovt  of  Beotrt],"  Sd  —  Tbe  Attht  l^lmt 
— Tba-Bnr'la  Draw  luw  — OcBonl  Butler'a  Onior 
■aiiiut  thaladlei  of  New  Orleani  —  Oaniiu  -  The  Cai^ 
malltca— Compatiton  for  tlia  Crowo  of  Scotland  —  Coa. 
gce*a'a''I>iir(i"  — Daabj  and  ArltoetoD  —  Dover  OvriJe 
— JohD  Enkln^  ProCaaaor  of  I«v,  Bdlnbsr^  — "BuC 
Pather  Annlmo  will  mver  igain,"  Ao— GlatlOD — 87du« 
flodolpbfii— Ruboiu'  " jDdgineBiof  na^a"— Leannwarth 
Pamitr-Snkeor  Manobcatnr:  FlaM  Mui^CM-HMa. 
roon— Mu-riue  Senice  not  illoiredto  otHnmcaoe after 
Twelte  o'clock  —  Sir  John  Hason  —  Uolitre'a  "Come- 
dies'—  Quotalioni  wanted,  Ac  MI. 

SBPLII8:  —  GaiaabonnuVi  -  BlBa  Bor,"  SM  —  Konl 
FaiutiUB  In  StaratoD  Chun^  Horfolk.  »8  -  Llnv  on  Ibe 
Humao  Ear,  US  — HenrTTIIL  and:Uie  Oolden  ?teeoa, 
3T0— B«Blm,n.~CaprMoiuWiv.S7X-liaant  CalraiT, 
A— Lrad  Campbdl^  "Lift  of  Iffndhnnt,"  Ac  ITS — 
HeuoUnt  Of  OUrer  Cromwall,  onoe  Iba  Prmartr  of  Brad- 
■hawtheB«ldda— "Anlma  CbriiU"— The  Sehooimaa- 
(er  abroad  In  Stallbrdahire  —  The  Ode  of  ArthurOraf- 


•ophieal  Hakedm*  —  Ea^iih  QiusB  buHed  at  Porto 

—  Anbic  Numetali  In  Wella  Cathedral  —  Trioi?  of 

BL  Blhenum  —  Bir  Thcmaa  Bewell  -~  Tha  BhoBibtu  and 
Bcanu,  Ac,  ST4. 
ITstai  on  Boob,  Ao. 


A  WOED  FOR  MOOEE, 
In  th«  note  hMded  "  Spenser  tbe  Ftiet  of  Imt- 
land"  ("N.  &  Q."  4»  S.  riL  317),  iatMestintt  m 
&r  as  relates  to  Speoaer  himself,  one  camiat  nelp 
i^tettiug  that  the  vriter  shouM  luTe  gooe  out 
of  his  way  to  deprecinte  Moore,  and  to  offer  an 
opinion  on  the  political  condition  of  Ireland  in  a 
maimer  calcnlated  to  raise  controversy;  unless 
indeed,  one  suffers  judgment  to  go  by  default 
wUch  is  not  to  be  thought  of  in  the  caoe  of 

Mb.  KsieHiLBY's  speculations  on  the  imposai- 
Ulity  of  an  insurrection  in  Ireland  are  dif^Msed 
of  hj  the  fact  that  one  occoned  there  six  or  sevoi 
Tews  ago;  but,  belieying  tiiat  Moore's  iruA  Jfe- 
Jodfaf  (most  of  them)  rani  among  the  finest  poems 
wepo8Wss,Ihopeto  be  allowed  to  say  a  few  words 
in  hie  behalf.  Mp,  Kekbilbt  does,  to  be  sure, 
admit  (for  which  we  rinmld  be  ^ratefn])  that 
"many  of  the  Melodies  are  pleasmg  and  some 
really  spirited";  bat  he  ia  diawttisfied  because 
they  "  do  not  contain  a  single  description  of  Irish 
scenerr  or  a  tnut  of  Irirfi  manners.''  And  pray 
why  enoold  th^  P  InA  scenery  and  manners  in 
iba  MdodU*!  Who  then  would  have  read  them  f 
Moore  painted  the  emotions  of  the  soul,  which 
are  common  to  all  the  civilised  world— and  the 
uncivilised,  too,  for  aught  I  know — and  that  is 
the  cause  of  his  nniversal  popnlari^.     When 


Moore  wrote  words  to  Irieh  tunes,  he  was  mider 
no  obligation  to  describe  Irish  scenery  and  man- 
ners. He  has  BoraetimeB  described  tiie  toae  of 
what — not  having  time  to  seek  another  phrase— 
I  will  call  n^<Hial  feeling ;  but  that  was  because 
the  melo^Bes  themselves  snggested  it  Sear  what 
Moore  himself  said  upon  £ia  ^oint  in  his  letter' 
to  ^  John  Stevenson,  consenting  to  undertake 
his  share  of  the  wwk ;  — 

"  The  taA  which  jon  propose  to  me,  of  adapting  words 
to  Iheaa  ain,  ia  by  no  meam  eafr.  Tba  poet  who  would 
follow  the  various  saatimenta  which  thej  aipreas,  mut 
feel  and  UDderslaad  that  rapid  flactoatlon  of  apirita, 
that  nnaocountable  misture  of  gloom  and  levity  which 
composffl  the  character  of  my  conntrymen,  and  has 
deeply  tinged  thdi  iniidc.  Even  Id  their  livelieat  strains 
we  find  some  melancholy  note  iatrnde — some  minor  tliird 
or  dat  sennth — which  throws  its  shade  as  it  paaaea,  aad 
makea  even  miitb  interesting." 

If  Moore  ought  to  have  written  descriptioof  of 
Irish  aceoery  and  manners,  when  he  wrote  songs 
to  Irish  tunes,  it  must  have  been  equally  incum- 
beot  on  him  to  ^ve  descriptions  <a  the  scenery 
and  manners  of  the  various  countries  to  whose 
tunes  he  wrote  songs  for  the  National  Melodiet. 
How  thankful  we  ought  to  be  for  having  got 
such  exquisite  son?a  as  "All  that's  brisht  must 
fade,"  "  Those  evenmg  bells,"  "  Should  £ose  fond 
hopes,"  "  Fare  thee  well,  thou  lovely  one,"  "  Oft 
in  the  stillv  night,"  "  Take  hence  the  bowl,"  and 
twenty  otners,  instead  of  sketches  of  landscape 
and  traits  of  manners  peculiar  to  India,  Russia, 
Sicily,  Scotland,  and  Naples,  to  whose  tunes  the 
inuoortal  verse  is  wadded. 

I  venture  to  think,  that  though  allusions  to 
manners  con  be  introduced  with  much  effect  into 
humorous  songs,  as  we  see  is  done  in.  those  of 
Bums  and  others  written  in  local  dialects,  parti- 
cularly of  the  northern  counties  of  England,  and 
also  in  Irish  comic  songs — of  which  there  are 
manv — they,  equally  with  descriptions  of  scenery, 
would  be  intolerable  in  songs  of  another  character. 
The  reference  to  Burns  fortunately  supplies  me 
with  an  illustration  in  support  of  my  argument. 
There  is  a  fragment  consisting  of  these  four  lines : 

"  Sly  heart's  in  the  Hielanda,  myt^ieart  is  not  here, 
My  heart's  in  the  Uielanda  a-cliasing  the  deer; 
A-cbasinK  the  vdld  deer,  and  hnntiag  ihe  roe — 
My  hearra  in  the  Bidanda  wherever  1  go." 
This  is  poetry :  it  touches  the  feelings,  and 
appeijs  to  the  imagination.    We  behold  t£e  ban- 
iuted  man  turning  with  fond  regrst  to  the  scenes 
and  sports  of  his  youth ;  we  see  his  eve  kindle  as, 
for  the  moment,  he  f^des  himself  once  more 
"with  hie  foot  uponhis  native  heather,"  and  then, 
the  illuuon  past,  he  feels  that  it  ia  in  imaginatioD 
only  he  con  hope  ever  to  look  upon  the  much- 
loved  land  again.    Burns  took  it  into  his  head  to 
make  a  complete  song  of  this  &agment  and  this  is 
how  he  did  it.    To  follow  the  four  unes  above    ■ 
givMhe  wrote:—  -eo  i  ;AjiC)C)«^IC 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4''8.V1I.  Apcn,S9,f 


WheieTcr  I  vraniler,  wherever  1 
The  bills  of  tbe  Hieluidg  Tor  ever  I  lav*. 
"FirevelltothemDnnUiaafalgbcoTer'd  with  snow; 
Fuewell  to  thi  slrathi  and  grttn  •L-Mtjt  bdaw  ; 
<    Fuewell  h>  Iba  focesla  and  high  iuagrng  woodi ; 
Farewell  la  Ihe  tonenla  and  load  pouriDg  aoods." 
Now,   if  Bums   wns   ubiiged  to   write   a   song 
ooBbuDiDg  deacriptiona  of  scenery,  he  cvinot  be 
bltmed  for  the  resulti  but  gurel;  it  ia  ncit  of  a 
nature  to  iodine  otber^  to  take  the  eame  course. 

It  roa;  not  be  unintereeting  to  contrast  Burns's 
liasB  with  Moore's  "  Vale  of  Avoca,"  which  con- 
tain A  certain  amount  of  desi'.ription  of  ecenerj. 
All  tbat  genius  could  do  is  here  done.  Tbe  first 
two  verses  are  channio^  as  a  landscape  bj  Claude : 
but  yaa  are  not  really  interested  until  tbe  chord 
of  human  feeling  is  touched  in  the  thinl  and 
fourth  verses.  C.  Ross. 


le  following  pangrftph  appeared  in  7%«  ComM, 
wspaper  published  m  Ouemaej,  oo  Wednea- 


TWO  CENTEKABIANS  OF  THE  SAUE  KAUE. 
The: 
a  newspaper 
d«7,  Nov.  30, 1870 

"  A  Cbstkxariah. — In  tbs  coarM  af  tbe  prcMot  wedi 
Hii.  LenfeMej,  nee  Beaaeamp,  a  oaUre  of  tbe  Caatel 
pariih,  and  at  preseot  rending  near  tbe  dlatriet  chnrch  of 
at.  John's,  completed  tbo  hundrcdlb  year  of  her  age. 
Her  meatal  faculties  are  gcxKl,  and  her  eywight  ia  so  un- 
impaired that  she  i>  able  to  read  and  sew  without  the 
aid  of  spectacles.  She  etlll  mores  about  Ihe  house,  and 
ware  it  not  for  aa  injury  to  a  le([  sustained  some  time  tgo, 
li  still  bale  and  heairtT  eoougb  to  eojoy  herself  in  Tilling 
ber  acquaintances.  Her  crippled  stiite,  bowefer,  com- 
pels her  to  remain  at  honia.  A  daughter,  seventy  years 
of  age,  resides  with  her.  Their  circumstances  may  ba 
described  as  indieent.  Jndffing  from  appearances,  the  old 
lady  may  lire  a  raw  years  lont^r.  Hei  lifetime  forms  ■ 
link  connecting  the  pruenC  irilh  that  period  of  bLitory 
when  UieaC  Britain  struKgled,  unsuccessfully,  to  roducs 
tbe  American  colonists  to  subjection  to  the  mother 
couDtij.  She  saw  the  light  before  tbe  birlh  of  Sir  Walter 
Scott  and  Loub  Phllippei  waa  well  In  her  'teens'  bo- 
Ibre  the  Reign  of  Terror  had  horrified  the  civilised  world, 
and  has  lived  during  some  of  the  most  momeotoua  erenti 
recorded  in  modem  hisloiy. 

On  the  Wednesdaj  following,  December  4,  the 
ume  newspaper  contained  this  notice : — 

"  A  ColsciDKRC*.— In  71*  Cbaul  of  November  80th 
it  waa  atated  that  Mrs.  Lenfesley,  net  Beauchamp,*  a 
ttative  of  the  Castel  parish,  but  residing  in  tbe  district  of 
St.  John's,  hod  that  week  completed  her  hundredth  year, 
and  we  now  learn,  by  a  singular  coiacidence,  that  another 
person  of  tbe  same  maiden  name,  and  a  native  of  the 
same  pariih  (Castel)  —  namely,  Snsan  ds  Beaachamp, 
relict  of  Samnel  le  Bair,  was  baplised  in  the  Castel 
naiish,  IGlh  December,  1738,  and  buried  in  St.  Peter- 
Port,  IStb  June,  1636,  aged   igi  years  and  fully  six 


•  Ther 


er  been  written  thns  In  Guemsf 
-.1  the  Konnan  dialect,  still  spoken  tn  the  island,  ti 
Freach  word  champ  invariably  takes  Ilie  form  of  oiaip' 


As  the  question  of  longeri^  ia  one  yrbSeh  bu 
attracted  a  good  deal  of  atlentioD,  aod  bas  been 
ver^  much  discussed  in  "N.  ft  Q.,"  I  thought  it 
would  not  be  uninteresting  (o  the  readers  of  thit 
useful  periodicftl  if  I  were  to  verify  the  facts;  and 
in  so  doin^  I  became  more  than  ever  convinced 
how  eaaj  it  is,  unless  great  care  is  luad,  to  fall 
into  error  in  matters  of  this  nature,  which  require 
a  cautious  sifting  of  the  evidence  adduced.  1  <nll 
show  that  although  the  fact  of  tbe  great  an 
attained  by  these  two  individuals  is  su^tantiallj 
correct,  tbe  writers  of  the  above  notices  ate  wmni 
in  stating  that  thej  were  natives  of  the  Castel 
parish;  and  that  this  anumption  bas  been  lbs 
cause  of  Mrs.  le  Bair  being  credited  with  ax 
months  more  age  than  sba  actuallj  attained. 

One  of  the  venerabla  oentenarinns  being  still 
living,  I  began  by  vbiting  her.  1  found  her  won- 
derfullj  clear  in  ber  memory  and  intellects,  very 
upright  in  person,  and  with  eyesight  and  besrii^ 
oppareotly  unimpait«d.  Our  conversation  wai 
carried  on  in  the  old  Norman  dialect,  still  spc^en 
in  Guernsey,  but  the  venerable  dame  speaks  sod 
rends  both  English  and  French.  She  told  ms 
that  what  had  appearod  in  the  newspaper  nas  in- 
correct, inasiuuch  as  she  waa  not  a  oalive  of  t!ie 
Castel  parish,  but  of  the  parish  of  St.  Peter-Port; 
tbat  her  family  had  coma  originally  toot  the 
Oaatel,  but  tbat  ber  father  had  inhabited  tbs 
parish  of  St.  Msj^Ln  until  he  had  come  to  reads 
in  the  town  where  she  was  born.  She  produced 
a  copy  of  her  baptismal  register,  which  I  bars 
since  verified  by  a  personal  examination  of  the 
parish-booka  of  St.  Peter-Part      It  is  as  fbl- 

"  Soianne,  fille  de  Daniel  Beaaoamp  ■  et  da  Jaditb 
"—- ■  ~  '- — !,n6i  le  89*  de  Novembra  1770i  o«  biUa* 
re  Buivant  a  en  pour  Parrain  Hdlier  dS 
Bcancamp  et  pour  Uarrainea  Suxanoe  de  Beancamp  H 
Cbarlolte  Hanger." 

I  looked  through  tbe  register  of  baptisms  tor 
thirteen  years  subsequent  to  this  date,  and  could 
find  no  other  Suionne  de  Beaucaxop.  I  asked  her 
at  what  age  she  had  married.  She  told  ne  at 
the  age  of  twenty-four.  I  sought  for  the  reooid 
of  her  marriage,  and  found  the  following  entry  in 
the  register  ot  St.  Pater-Port  :— 

"James  Lenftstey,  flis  de  Pierra  Lanresley  et  Snunne 

de  cette  paratas 

bre  1794." 

I  inquired  of  her  whether  she  had  IcnowD 
Mrs.  le  Bair,  whose  maiden  name  was  also 
Susanne  de  Beaucamp,  and  who  bad  died  about 
thirty  Tears  ago.  She  answered  immediately  that 
she  had  known  her  well,  aa  she  was  ber  aunt  and 


Of  persona  in  the  lower 
Lo  ifrop  tb 
IB  de  Beaucamp,  linl 


known  a*  plain  Beanoamp,,  , . 


the  particle  (ft.    DaDi''r< 
-  ■- ^a»  wideutly  better 


#»S.  TIL  April  39, 71.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


godmother.  I  uked  her  no  more  queatioiu  at 
that  time,  hnt  being  desirous  of  tMUtig  the  accu- 
noj  of  the  faots  in  respect  of  the  age  of  Mrs.  la 
BaiT,  I  sot  permission  to  examine  the  registers 
of  the  Cutei  parish,  and  found  the  haptism  of  a 
Susanna  de  Baaucamp,  dauoihter  of  Senjs  de 
Beaueamp  and  Esther  Ahier,  his  wife,  entered  on 
December  16,  1733.  This  appeared  to  veiifj^  the 
statement,  made  in  the  second  paracraph  which  I 
have  copiedabove  from  TTtiiComel:  buta  few  davs 
after  I  coJIed  ngfiin  on  Mrs.  Lenfeatej,  and  in  tne 
com^m  of  conveiaation  told  her  that  I  bad  di»> 
ooTered  her  anat's  baptismal  register  in  the  books 
of  the  Caetel  parish.  She  appeared  astoi^ished 
and  begged  to  hear  it  rend,  which  I  proceeded  to 
do,  -when  she  immediatelj  stopped  me,  sajing — 

"Obi  thatwu  not  myaant;  h«r  (Other's  lume  was 
Micholoi  de  Betncanip,  and  bcr  mother'a  Olynipe  Robert. 
I  am  their  gTuddanghter ;  tbay  lived  at  St.  Hartin'a, 
where  I  believe  m;  lunl  w»  bom,  ■>  I  remember  tbit 
on  tbe  day  the  attiinsd  her  hundredth  year  many 
persoas  called  to  aee  ber,  4ad  amang  tbem  tbe  Kev. 
ttldiard  Potenger,  rector  of  tbat  pirlib,  u  he  iiid  that 
she  »ai  the  oldeit  of  his  puiihlonen." 

This  information  was  verj  precise,  <")d  I  baw 
at  once  tbat  tbe  writer  of  the  second  paragraph 
had  confounded  one  Susanne  de  Beaueamp  with 
another.  A  day  or  two  afterwards  I  met  the  Eev. 
Charles  Robinson,  the  present  rector  of  St  Mar- 
tin's, and  requested  bim  to  search  tbe  reaister  of 
his  parish  for  tbe  baptism  of  a  Susanne  de  Beau- 
camp  about  the  year  1734.  Tbe  next  day  he  sent 
me  the  following  extract  duly  anthenticated : — 

"  I7S4,  Jain  4.  Sazanoe,  Filta  de  Nlcolu  de  Beaacamp 
et  d'Olympe  Bohert  a  414  btptMe.  Daniel  Tourtcl, 
ParaiD,  et  Fnofoiae  Hangeur  et  Bacbel  de  Beancamp, 
Haraioei." 


"  A*  I  have  oiamined  the  r^[ii(er  for  twenty  sabM- 
qnent  yesr^  I  thiak  thii  mait  be  the  penon  yon  are  in- 
qniring  abauL" 

The  discovery  of  the  error  that  bad  l>een  com- 
mitted by  supposiug  Mrs.  le  Bur  to  have  been  a 
Dative  of  the  Castelreduces  ber  age  at  tbe  time  of 
her  decease  by  six  months.  She  must  have  but 
just  completed  her  lOlst  y^ar  when  she  died, 
naving  been  baptised  on  June  4,  1734,  and  buried 
on  June  IS,  163o,  as  the  following  extract  from 
the  register  of  burials  in  tbe  pariab  of  St.  Peter- 
Port  will  show ; — 


Tbe  de  Beaueamp  family  is  of  very  ancient  date 
iu  Guernsey.  By  tbe  Placita  Coronte,  A"  5  Ed- 
wnrd  III.,  it  appears  that  Hadul^us  de  Betlo 
Campo  was  one  of  the  j  urata  of  the  Royal  Court  at 
that  time ;  and  in  the  extent  of  the  crown  revenues 
in  tbe  island  of  tbe  same  date  (1331)  we  find  that 
be  held  lands  in  the  parishes  of  St.  Petar-Port 


and  St.  Andrew.  At  the  same  time  Kichard  de 
Beaucamp's  name  appears  as  tenant  in  St.  Pster- 
Port,  and  John  de  Beaucamp's  in  St.  Peter-Port 
tnd  St.  Martin.  In  the  reign  of  Elizabeth  we 
find  tbem  established  in  the  Gastel,  where  a  con- 
siderabla  .tract  of  land,  formerly  in  their  posses- 
of  "  Lea  Beaucamps.  The 
family  being  looked  upon  in  tbe  island  as  belong- 
ing to  this  parish  will  account  for  the  errors  into 
which  tbe  writers  in  Th«  Comet  have  fallen. 

Instances  of  longevity  are  far  from  rare  in 
Guernsey,  In  passing  through  the  churchyard  of 
the  Castel  I  found  two  tomMtonea  within  a  few 
feet  of  each  other,  from  which  I  copied  thefoUow- 
tng  inacriptions ; — 

"Ici  npoee  le  earjia  de  Dame  Catherine  Coba,  remme 
dn  Sienr  Pierre  le  Bay,  da  Friqaet,  d^c^d^  an  Selgnenr 
le  17°»  AouBt,  I'lD  1819,  igle  ile  101  Ana,  8  Hois  et  4 

Elizabeth  Bobert,  venve  d'El^zar  iDgronille,  d4otii» 
- -  ■  2MoU." 


Goeraiey. 


),»gfedt 


Edoab  MAcCnixocs. 


SIK  EDWIN  SANDT3  AND  THE  BISHOPS. 

Mr.  Spedding  (Bacon's  lAfe,  iii.  264)  speaks  of 
Sir  Edwin  Sandys  as  "  a  man  whose  relations 
to  the  bishops  may  be  inferred  ftom  the  fitct  that 
on  tbe  Snd  of  Nov.  preceding  ft.  e.  160S]  his  books 
were  burned  in  Paul's  Church  Yard  by  order  of 
the  High  Commission."  For  proof  of  Uie  fact  be 
refers  us  to  B  letter  of  Chamberlain's  to  Carleton 
dated  Not.  7, 1606.  (Stat.  Pap.,  Dam.  Ser.)  Itw 
strange  tbat  the  eon  of  en  arcblnsbop  should  have 
proved  thus  violently  hostile  to  the  oishops,  so  as 
to  make  them  foKet  all  forbearance  towards  the 
son  of  an  old  colleague.  And  it  seems  stranger" 
still,  if  we  recollect  what  kind  of  man  Sir  Edwin 
Sandys  was.  Throughout  his  whole  career  be  haa 
shown  himself  a  very  intelligent  man  of  modnate 
Tiews;  and  for  a  Pratestant  of  the  bezinning  of 
the  seventeenth  centuiy,  he  was  remarkably  free 
from  intolerancy,  and  by  no  means  given  to  vio- 
lence of  any  kind.  He  was  large-minded  enough 
to  find  some  good  points  even  in  Roman  Catho- 
lics. Thus  ha  praises  them  in  hb  Europm  ^ecu- 
lum  (written  1600  and  dedicated  to  J.  Whitgift, 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  published  1637.  pp_.  8,  Oi 
for  their  adorning  their  temples.  And  ne  is  suf- 
ficiently clear-headed  and  just  to  see  that  "Pro- 
testants and  Papists  seeme  generally  in  the  greatest 
part  of  their  stories,  both  to  blame,  though  both 
not  equally,  having  by  their  passionate  reports 
much  wronged  the  truth ;  "  and  ne  freely  acknow- 
ledges tbat  even  some  of  the  other  part  have  dis- 
charged  themselves  "nobly."  (CI,  p.  90.)  Of 
course  this  isnotindifiereoce  to  religion  in  general. 
On  Uie  contrary.  Sir  Edwin  is  a  lealous  ChriatiMi. 
It  grieves  him  to  speak  "  what  a  multitude  of 
Atbdsta  doe  biave  it  in  tXi  [ilacaa,  thaie  moat 

D,g«izeobyCOOgIC 


360 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIEa  u-s-vil  Ai-bil».7i. 


lAan  Avonr  »  oMat  ia  his  pome."  (P.  160 ; 
ef.  abo  p.  161.)  In  A&  miii»  hook  he  openlj  Koi 
deddedtj  d«clsm»  U*  preference  for  th»  E^rliah 
Ohnrdt  wilh  its  garctsiBent  of  bidiops,  (F.  214.) 
And  he  doei  not  vppMi  in  Ute  eoom  of  T«an  to 
hare  chaneed  hi»  (^intoDS.  Thus  <n  Haj-  36, 
1614,  in  a  ddMta  oa  tke  fiiahop  of  liaeoln,  wke 
had  iDcoired  tbe  heary  displearara  of  the  Coi~ 
motu  in  ctmseqneiiea  of  a  speech  nutde  by  him 
theHonaeof  Lonta,  he  v "- —  "--'  '-  '~ 


nr/eteat  D^ree  of  Kabma  1^  Ok*  Man' 
Eeiot."    It  wits,  ke  etjs,  an  "OrOBr  of  Angela 

aot  Uco,  where  [Mcjnone  of  tlieu  withoateiror." 
Bat  be  thia  as  tt  ai*j,  ire  hbTe  the  teednKmy 
of  a  usuail;  well-informed  newmaM,  writdii^  a 
few  day*  after  the  event,  and  positiveiy  aswrting 
that  his  books  were  bunwd.  The  &ct  (J  tbe 
bmitnr,  therefore,  can  hanUy  be  donbtad ;  bat  it 
Tovr  admit  of  an  explanation,  and  tiiis,  I  think, 
viu  be  found  in  the  foUowing  extract  from  the 
PnblisheT's  Preface  to  the  £uropce  Speculum : — 


e  puts  of  the  World,  Piinted  for  ods 
Watarfbtd,  1606.  WUthoot  aaiae  cfAnthor,  vetnie- 
rally  aed  coEnBtlvpaaiiie  nndu' lite  name  of  Sir  E^io 
SasdTl,  Enjght ;  luioir  all  nun  bf  these  pieseitt  tlwt 
the  same  Booke  wu  bnt  a  spurioos  stoliM  Gtpj,  in  part 
•tdtimiiad,  in  part  ampMed,  and  tlmacbant  moat 
AameftUlT  bUied  and  felH  Pnated  ftom  the  Aotfaon 
Originall ;  In  ta  niuh  tlutt  tha  lama  Kniglit  was  in- 
Anitely  wronged  thereby  :  aid  oi  (oaiu  ai  il  caiiw  lo  hii 
intn^tdgt,  thai  inch  a  thing  oat  Printed  and  patted  under 
Ail  namt,  he  cabsbd  it  (thoarfi  somewhat  liita,wheD,  It 
aeemes,  two  Imprsiuioiis  w«n  fbr  the  nost  part  vmted) 

r   AUTBOHITT ;   iSD   IS    1  HAVE 


Pdnters :  And  yet,  b 
hath  beene  another  Im 
the  wotU." 

Mnnieh,  Gennaay. 


REHABKABLE  ALTAR-SLAB  IH  NOBWICH 
CATHEDEAL. 

When  I  was  lately  in  the  Cathsdnl  of  the 
Host  Holy  Trinity,  Norwich,  I  saw  an  andeut 
sltei-slab  which  seemed  to  me  of  mora  than  usual 
interest.  It  was  found  not  long  mnce  in  tbe  pare- 
ment  of  tbe  apse  of  the  Norman  Chapel,  which  is 
dedicated  to  the  Blessed  Jesns,  and  which  opens 
to  the  north  aide  of  the  choir,  and  baa  recently 
been  undergoing  lestoration. 

A  small  portion  of  one  (the  north-west)  comer 
of  the  stone  haTitig  been  oroken  off,  it  haa  been 
skiUiilly  replaced,  and  the  slab  is  now  duly  re~ 
stored  to  what  is  supposed  to  be  its  former  poM- 
tdon  in  the  centre  of  the  apse  of  tbe  chapel. 

The  material  of  the  slab  is  stated  to  be  stone 
fromCIipshani, Butlimd.  ThedimenmcmeBreSfeet 
8  inches  in  length,  3  feet  3  inches  in  breadth, 
and  perhaps  7  inches  in  thickness. 


is  to  say  in  it*  surface  on.  tbe  east  side,  there  aie 
three  Ion?  mortiaBS  about  five  inches  deefk  with  > 
Boand  hoM  driUed  £tom  the  aide  iBt«  «ac^  The 
suppose  to  ha.Te  fbmuriy  supported  a 


EvGfy  atlar-eU>  was  lormerly  marked  wUb 
Eve,  OGCMioD^y  with  nine,  crosses.  In  this  alab, 
hoWBTer,  no  eroas  ia  to  1m  discerned  at  the  north- 
Wflst  comer,  which  hM  been  l^Mured ;  and  that 
IB  the  norto-eest  comei  ia  worn  away^  but  ■ 
cms*  nay  still  be  se^i  both  ia  the  so«ilh-east  and 
in  the  south-west  comata.    The  central  cross  does 


described. 

In  this  Sue  slab  there  is  inserted,  not  in  its 
centre,  but  eoneiderBibly  towards  its  north-west 
comer,  another  slab  M  smaller  uae.  It  is  a 
sc[uariBh  piece,  I  believe  of  Pnrbeck  marble,  mea- 
suriog  20^  inches  from  east  to  west,  and22^iDchee 
from  north  to  south.  When  lately  discovered, 
the  Purbeck  was  seen  to  be  not  Sush  with  the 
surrounding  Surface,  rising  above  it,  in  fitct,  about 
one  quarter  of  an  inch. 

This  Purbeck  inlaj  is  maded  with  one-inch 
crosses,  fire  in  number;  the  extremities  of  whid 
an  drilled,  unlike  thoee  of  the  two  crosses  vinUe 
on  Uie  larger  slab. 

The  smaller  slab  is  supposed,  b^  a  very  learned 
Norwich  authority,  to  cover  certain  relics;  which 
may  be  the  relics  of  a  amnt,  or  the  blessed  sacn- 
ment,  if  the  former  were  not  to  be  obtained  at 
the  consecration  of  the  altar. 

I  have  myself  observed  many  old  altar-slabs  in 
oar  churchee,  but  have  never  before  met  with  one 
like  this ;  and  therefore  hope  that  eccledologists 
who  read  "  N.  &  Q."  maj;  (eel  disposed  to  enrich 
Qieae  pages  with  their  views  respecting  i^  and 
tell  ns  01  any  other  examples  lliat  are  knawn  to 

Periiaps  the  an^ves  of  the  cathedral  may  be 
found  to  throw  some  light  upon  it,  if  a  Norwich 
archeeologist  would  kin<Uy  consult  them. 

W.H.S. 

NaUES  of  NOKSK  MKN  is  CUKBEBLUni  ARC 

Westkorbland.— Mr.  Fergoson  carries  bis  theory 
too  far  when  he  connders  that  Eagle  Crag,  Bavcn 
Crag,  Bull  Crag,  &c.,  are  the  personal  names  of 
"  il,  Rftfn,  BolU,  &c. 

There  are  four  Eagle  Crags  in  the  district :  Bor- 
rowdale,  Battorraere,  Patterdale,  Easedale.  How 
It  be  that  the  pa-tonal  name  Egil  ahould  be 
pven  to  aueh  ctags  onh/  as  are  eait«d  for  the 
occupation  of  eagles  (some  of  which  have  been  in 
their  possession  within  a  centurv)  t 

Otiey,  in  his  old  and  exteOgat ^Cfiiidt Sook^ 


**&tii.apbil»,71.]  KOTCS  and  queries. 


S:  "Them  ii  •  Sareii  Cxng  in  almoet  every 
,"  Ib  it  libelf  thkt  R*fb  g«ve  name  to  niim«- 
imu  ciss«,  of  not  Ike  ili^tett  dm  to  aay  one  but 
ft  nYea?  Bull  Cng  iTar  Eaaedale)  hu  a  CUf 
Oag  not  far  &<»i  it  Tha  oamai  of  these  caw 
mut  hare  beea  ^Tan  bj  aheaherda  after  tSe 
district  bad  baooma  pwtMal,«M  it  beoane  naeea- 
aarf  to  diatingiiiah  oartain  pointa  of  loek.  H«noa 
tha  Tepa^tioD  of  the  aaisa  namnfi  Xn  Grasi&eie 
•Rd  Laogdalw  «ie  tluee  Bkke  Sin,  frar  BaTon 
Oagi^  two  Thixnff  Ciaga,  two  ^iiW  (EmeF) 
Ciaga.  thiee  Lan^  Ciaga  or  Kiga,  two  Xaw  Ctwij 
and  Oraat  and  LitUe  Laogdale  have  each  a  3&rt 
Cisg,  a  Gli«au  Crag,  a  Slack  Cr^t,  and  Swine 
Scat  and  Swine  Crag. 

The  lock-iMgecia  ia  aup^oied  to  be  the  pn>- 
geoitoi  of  our  domeatie  pighoo,  and  thars  tn 
tmmeniiu  Dow  Crags  j  but  I  cbserre  that  the 
bTbtid  tana  Dhtt-cna  has  been  lately  applied  to 
the  pnnc^ial  ciag  of  that  name. 

It  ia  not  neceasaiy  to  peem  tbaea'to  ud  Hr. 
Ferguson's  Tiews,  whicb  are  omfinied  snfficiantlj 
otherwise.  W.  G. 

JB818. — The  followiBg  haTO,  I  believe,  not  ap- 
peavad  in  print : — The  late  FlofeaaDr  WQsod  on 
ous  of  his  IaIcb  angling  excursions  was  accom- 
Mnied  by  a  NorA  countrymaii,  a  Mr.  Angua. 
When  about  to  atari,  after  a  reat  on  the  ali^ea  of 
Helvallyn,  Mr.  Angus  was  bcm  ed.  "  Where  is 
AcgusF"  was  inquired.  "There  he  is!"  said 
WUson,  pointing  to  a  slumberer  in  some  long 
graw,  "latet  oiyiw  ia  herbal"  This  johe  sraa 
toU  to  ma  by  an  elderly  lady  whose  biotbei  was 
ene  of  the  par^. 

A  poofNacT  at  a  Scotch  univendty,  while  asoeod- 
ing  the  ateep  road  to  the  village  of  Uoiches,  ia 
Switseriand,  hapt  &r  behiiid  the  reat  of  the  party. 
"ICarcb  quicker  t  or  we  shall  neret  get  to  the 
inn,"  called  out  aa  Engliah  dergyman.  "  Hy 
itf*  aie  tiled,"  sud  tlie  ^ofeasot.  "  Never  Bind 
your  1^ ;  push  on  I —  neoesaitas  ami  habet  Ugt," 
was  the  reply  of  the  cUiifi^  wit  I  was  by  wh«a 
this  joke  wae  perpelnted.  U  oocmed  about  four 
yoan  ago.  Vurau 

Rx&DTZoov  «B  RxNoiraH. — One  of  Hie  eone- 
sTKiiidents  of  Z<md  <md  W^Htr  of  April  1,  writing 
oT  "  Ht.  G.  Wataon's  faarrien "  (vrilucb,  by  the 
way,  oQ^t  to  be  spelt  "  hariers  "),  says  :— 

**  On  Friday,  the  2ttb,  ray  bone  wu  broDght  to  ma  b7 
a  most  iTontiy  nan,  nim«d  duKuIarly  eaoaeb  Bewly- 
bo«£  He  is,  I  believ«  ■  dsKeiidaiit  of  ffii  TboMat 
Eirilnarti,  <if  f>fTii*trfc  in  LaaoMluT^  iriM  was  altalitad 
hi  the  Wan  cf  tha  Bmss,  aad  ioA.  nfage  In  lbs  tane- 
biaiy  of  Qnttoo  in  Piwifc-^wg^i^i-  Pottst." 

This  seems  to  me  to  be  worthy  of  preaervstioB 
IB  the  pages  of  "  N.  &  Q."       CmHBMEi  Bxu. 

EanAiisiusI^iLxLon:  SmBBUM. — ^Ifyoa 
loeeie  three  limes  on  ILmdar  mnmrn^  yon  are 
•m  to  hareA  present  before  tte  wedc  ia  out 

SnxCtiUDCM. 


Tbb  Sodteb  akd  his  Sow. — The  ibUowiog 
humorous  lines  were  oneo  heard  in  Sootland  long 
ago,  but  seem  to  be  now  fbigot  It  may  he  neces- 
sary to  explain  that  vnder  is  the  Scotch  woid  for 


"The  tanttt  gaa  hif  son  s  U«. 
'  Gmmph '  (quo' tha  son),  ■  it^  fbr  my  Utse' i 
■  Aad  wha  gat  ye  ■«  (w««t  a  mon' r  * 
Qao*  Uia  sraUr  to  tli«  loo. 
'Gai^lii'  (qoo'  the  sou), '  and  wlia  pa  ye 
A  twigiuauileckit  andiaadee?*" 

G. 
Edlnborgb. 

ExiKiossivAsi  Uutsjiexa.  —  On  a  tablet 
a^iainst  the  north  wall  of  the  cbujch  of  St.  Angus- 
tina,  Biidbrookt^  Essex,  are  tJie  fbllowing  inscrip- 

"  Harr  Blewltt,  irf  the  Smn  Inn,  at  BatliMne  End  in 
tblspulih,bBtladMay7, 1681.  She  wu  ths  i>i&  of  ulna 
hoalMiidi  necnrively,  Ixit  the  ninth  ontBvcd  b«r. 

" Also, Eobeft Hogan, of  tldapariih, wis tha  hniband 
of  WTeD  wivM  KHMHively.  Ha  oBuriad  Anna  Uvar- 
tnai^  liii  seveatb  wlA^  Jon.  1, 1789." 

F.G.L. 
CsArcxB ;  "  Schoo." — 
"  For  thongb  a  iridave  hadde  bat  oo  scIiini, 
So  pleuant  WM  llll  In  principio, 
Ttt  «idde  hs  ban  ■  fcitUag  or  be  wants." 

iivRi*,  ProiagMt  a  r.,  L  as. 
It  has  been  aiiogeatad  (ronqaorory  iWinw  to 
aix-Tex*,  p.94,aiaaeer  See.)  that  sokwhere- 
sout.  Ht.  Fan^aH  knows  of  no  each  earty  use 
of  the  latter  word  ia  English,  and  seema  tncliiied 
to  interpret  scAas-^but,  £ram  Prm^.  Pan., 
p.  447.  It  seems  to  me  to  K>ean  sAm  and  nothing 
cJee.  In  aU  the  119a  of  Ute  Six-Ttxl  tibe  lead- 
intr  is  "  Nst  a  achoo,"  -<irtiich  puts  out  of  oooit  the 
dimculty  rused  sa  to  what  use  the  fi>urtfa  part  of 
aahoe(/arlUi7)co«Mbetoaenet«.  Ftrihmg 
rimply  —farthing,  the  cmu. 

In  Uoiris's  Aldine  e£tiaa  (  TPM  o^  Ait&'s  A«^ 
lofmt,  1.  70S),  we  fasve— 

"  The  eleffc  whan  ha  ia  <dd,  and  my  noagtit  do 
Of  Ytaos  warUi,  Is  sot  worth  a  acba." 
BntTjnrtntt  reads  here  "  notwinth  his  old  dto." 
In  the  "Song  agunst  the  Frian"  {Paiitiad 
Awns,  tatm.  Bdm.  Ill,  to  JKek.  HI.  L  966. 
Beeocd  Pnh.)  then  is  n  appoute  passage  to 
that  of  tbe  iVsIiyMS— 

"Forbad  a  man  itoy  alhla  kynna, 
So  dmTM  aim  at  a  Ikare. 
And  fbr  Mae  than  a  pifia  of  ahona 
He  vyl  aaoH  lilm  clou  and  uaa." 
Hw  whale  ef  diia  peem  (I  am  not  svie  of  tiie 
date  af  U>«he«U  be  read  with  ChsMcr's  deaorip- 
tiaaofthaFtesfc    OsosfaM 

With  gjT^i^^an^  £  wsndisi  «d  wyia^" 
with  Cntmncer's 

"aat^atwaiariMMilU^kHfa     <  I 

Airi  W««^  *r  ts  ?*»  «n  1^  "^n  O  Og  I C 


362 


NOTES  AND  QUEKrES. 


[iO'S.VII.Apwi.M.TL 


and  agam — 

"  Tbam  fell*  to  lyre  il  on  purehtce, 
with  Chaucer'* 

"  Bia  purchuc  irts  bettai  Am  hii  rente" 

JoBH  ASDIB. 

BadiDgtaD,  dot  Litllatutoiiitoa,  Sanez. 

A  FoKsOTiEiT  HoMKBisT. — A  few  dajB  ago  I 
obtained  from  Mr.  Salkeld'i  moathly  catalogui 
obiter,  well  vorth  a  reading-maD'H  regular  per- 
quiflition— a  blank-verse  translation  of  Homer'i 
lirat  J/t(ui b J  the  Reverend  SRmaelLaiigley,D.D. 
and  publiflhed  by  Dodsle;  in  1767.  In  a  preface, 
occupying  twentj-nine  quarto  pages  of  periasology, 
(^Atiglici,  twaddle),  itaJicised,  einjjAtwwyrnfr'iJ,  at 
an  average  of  one  hundred  words  in  every  page, 
the  learned  U.  D.  sets  forth  his  having  been  in- 
duced by  Pope's  Shymef  and  his  Kon-Someritm 
to  traDBiate  the  entire  Ihad;  experimenting  its 
reception  by  the  publication  of  its  first  canto. 

For  this  purpose  hetellauH  that  he  had  speedily 
thrown  aside  Pope's  version,  and  wholly  abstained 
from  reading  the  elder  translators;  expecting  b^ 
the  adoption  of  Milton's  heroic  metre — in  his 
hands  decanllabic  prose— to  extinguiah  Pope's 
lUad  altocetlier. 

Has  this  experiment  been  noticed  hy  any  of 
Pope's  sulMequect  transistors  or  commentators  f 
Was  it  followed  by  the  version  of  the  other  twentv- 
tiiree  cantos,  announced  as  ready  to  meet  the 
public  demand  F  In  1767  Pope's  rhymed  IHad 
fiad  been  in  everybody's  band  during  ibrtv  years. 
What  portion  of  that  period  had  Doctor  Langley 
devoted  to  his  own  blank  verse  F  Did  he  survive 
to  compare  and  compete  it  with  Cowper'sP  Has 
it  been  bolocausted  to  Vulcan  P  or  is  it  slumbering 
in  the  Langleian  archives  f 

But  let  not  our  aealoua  Philhomeiiche  deprived 
of  his  rightful  commendations.  Appended  to  his 
translation,  and  independent  of  its  preface,  he  has 
illustrated  the  opening  of  the  Felidtean  Epos  by 
abundant  references  to  the  Scriptures,  to  Hesiod, 
to  Pindar,  to  the  Greek  dramatists,  to  Virgil,  to 
Ovid,  and  to  our  Xatdo  pUd  majut — the  Paraditt 
Xori  of  Milton.  RL.S. 

Thb  CitT  OP  "Tkximh." — In  all  the  accounts 
of  the  siege  of  Paris  and  of  the  inaunectioQ  which 
followed,  the  writen  notice  as  a  peculiarity  the 
constant  use  of  the  word  treaion:  do  they  know 
that  the  same,  in  the  middle  a^,  was  the  most 
common  outcry  to  intimate  dan^r,  the  most 
proper  summons  to  arms  P  It  occurs  constantly  in 
FroiBsart's  Chronick*.  Thus,  relating  how  Sir 
Peter  Audley  led  a  party  of  Navamns,  in  the 
night,  to  take  Chalons,  he  aays  that  the  citizens 
were  exceedingly  alarmed  because  there  were  cries 
from  all  parts  of  "  Treason,  treason  I  To  arms,  to 
annsl"'    Further  on,  we  read  that  the  defenders 


of  the  castle  of  Berwick,  finding  that  it  had  bean 
scaled  and  taken,  h^^  to  sound  their  trumpet^ 
and  to  cry  out,  "  Treason,  treason  I "  *  Whan 
Aymerigot  Marcel,  an  English  captain  on  the 
borders  of  A  uverj^e,  takes  hy  stratagem  the  castle 
of  Marquel,  the  inroatee  who  passed  through  the 
court,  seeing  his  followers  climbing  over  the  walla, 
instantly  cried  out,  "  Treason,  trMson  I  "  t  The 
same  alarm  was  given  by  the  guards  of  one  of  tha 

fates  of  Uudenarde  when  that  place  was  retaken 
y  the  Lord  Destoumay  X,  and  occura  twice  in 
another  chapter,  where  Qeronnet  de  Mauduraot, 
one  of  the  captains  of  Perrot  le  Beamois,  finds 
means  to  put  him  in  possession  of  Montferrant.C 

We  may  quote,  as  additional  instances,  the  fol- 
lowing passages  from  the  metrical  life  of  Bertlaad 
du  Guesclin  by  Cuvelier:  — 
"  Adont  R  »cri£  alanne  It  ane  fob : 
'Tray,  tr*y !  eQgDear,  annei-voDS  dcmanon.'" 

L.  191SB,T0l.  ii.p.310. 
••  Honlt  fbrt  (a  II  ikmds  qn'k  ce  Joor  commuita. 
Aux  armea  ont  crif  li  Eogloia  par  delL, 
£t  crioicnt :  '  Tray  I '  que  bleu  on  I'ewouta." 

L.  iOOlS,  p.  330. 
*■  I.a  gcDt  ie  re  pals  Kint  It  Poiticn  aki, 
Et  vont  erisnt :  'Trsy  !  nom  BOmmca  tnit  6ni'" 

L.  losas,  p.seo. 

FHAHCISOTJK-Mioa  KL. 


AurrM. 


••  HEART  OF  HEABT[8]." 
Can  you  tell  me  what  has  led  to  the  universal 
use  of  the  expresnon  ''  Heart  of  hearts  "  in  the 
plural,  which  appears  to  me  to  be  not  only  incor- 
rect but  nonsenncalP  I  have  never  met  with  a 
single  writer  of  modem  date  who  has  not  adopted 
this  form  of  expression,  implying  that  a  person 
may  have  more  hearts  than  oue,  and  one  espe- 
cially warmer  and  more  cordial  than  the  rest.  la 
it  assumed  to  be  derived  from  ShakespeaM  P  If 
80,  a  reference  to  the  passage  from  which  it  must 
be  taken  will  show  its  inoorrectnen.  In  the  scene 
between  Hamlet  and  Horatio  in  the  third  act  of 
Handel,  the  Prince  of  Denmark  says — 


Here  "heart  of  heart"  is  evidently  used  as  a 
ore  forcible  (though  synonymous)  expression 
than  "  heart's  core,"  and  means  the  innermost  part 
of  the  heart,  or,  in  modern  phrase,  the  depth  of 
the  heart.  All  this  seems  so  obvious  that  it  can 
hardly  be  supposed  to  have  escaped  the  many 
able  writers  and  speakers  and  preachers  who  in- 
variably use  tfae  form  of  expression  which  appears 


i 

Froiuart'a  Chn 

md.  vol.  vL  p. 

iiilvol.ix.pp 

nida 

SSI. 
115 

VDl. 

117. 

I  lUd.  p.  363. 


v»s.vii.ArBn.«i,7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


to  me  N  objectiosable.  I  am,  tberefoK,  appiO' 
heDNve  that  if  there  ia  anjr  mistake  in  thia  matte 
it  muBt  be  my  own ;  and  if  ao,  I  shall  be  thankfu 


thankful 

CnBUiBPOKD. 


TitB  Attic  Tii.KTT.— I  find  mention  of  an 
Attic  tal«»nt  paid  fbr  the  ntntoR)  of  a  captWe  lady 
in  an  anecdote  ot  the  war  between  the  Romans 
nod  Gauls,  B.C.  663,  when  the  latter  were  totally 
defeated  on  Mount  Olympua.  Can  any  one  inform 
me  what  Bum  of  money  the  Attic  tnlent  repre- 
sents P  Tho9.  BiTCLwra. 

[After  Sglon  had  lemodtHed  the  coinage,  tbe  Atlic 
•ilvFT  Dionay  waa  celabrated  for  its  purity.  Ths  chief 
coin  was  the  dncbma  of  eilrer,  ths  aTCr^ts  wdght  of 
which,  tVam  the  time  of  Solon  (o  that  of  Alexander  the 
Great,  is  found  to  be  M'G  graiai.  From  this  we  get  the 
foUoving  Talocf  in  aroirdnpaise  weight : — 

IbL   u.       gr. 
Obol     ....        0      0       IJM 


Taient  .  ,  ,  76  ij  H-69 
Bat  for  btslorlcsl  infonnfltion  reUtint;  to  lbs  Attic  talent 
we  mnit  refrr  oar  correipODdcnt  to  Smith's  Diclio<uoy  n/ 
GrtA  and  Rvmaa  Anliquitia,  ed.  1819,  pp.  813,  933  ; 
Bockh,  Mettolog.  Uiitersuch.;  Humplirey,  Cjtin  Colttc- 
toi't  itamal,  K53;  and  Tht  EnglUM  CVcfopoifia, " Arts 
and  Sdeacea,"  viiL  9.1 

Tbe  "Be.ib"  ik  Dbi:bt  Line  figures  con- 
spicuouslv  in  Sir  OeOTM  Etheref^e'e  comedy  of 
^  TCoud  i/SAeCi:>uV(London:  printedforthe 
company,  n.  d.)  Courtall,  one  of  the  ^nrinntts 
ptraoniB,  to  reassure  lady  Cockmood  in  the  prac- 
ticabili^  of  having;  a  jollification  on  the  morrow 
apart  from  scrutinoua  observers,  speaks  thus : — 

"Then 'tis  hut  going  to  a  bouu  that  ts  not  haunted 
by  the  oonipsny,«nd  we  are  secure;  and  noir  I  thiuk 
on't,  the  '  Bear '  In  Diare  Lane  is  ths  fitteat  placs  for  our 
pnrpoae."— Act  III.  Sc.  1,  p.  37. 

Sir  Joclin  Jollj  also,  in  persuading  Sir  Oliver 
Gockwood  to  accampnoy  him  to  a  bacclianalian 
revel,  aa  a  final  cliaching  to  the  argnmcnt,  says  : 

"  I  bespoke  dinner  «l  (he  '  Bear,'  the  privat'at  piece  in 
town  ;  there  vtiil  be  no  spies  to  betray  ni:  if  Thnmss*  be 
batteent,IdirewamDtthse,"&c— Aetlll.3e.^,p.4[, 

I  should  like  to  know  if  there  is  any  account  of 
this  tavern  extant,  giving  when  first  built,  and 
ftlao  its  demolition.  J.  Pxbbt. 

WaUIuun  Abbey. 

Oenbbai,  Butiek's  Ordeb  aoaixht  the  L&dibs 
OP  New  Oblkars. — 

"  Everybody  knows  about  the  onler  by  meini  of  which 
b«  pat  an  end  to  anythiug  like  insult  being  olFered  to  hie 
soldiers  by  the  ladies  of  New  Orleans.  An  Eneiishman  who 
metBotler  some  time  after,  io  s  rail wav  car,  spoke  to  him 
of  this.  '  Do  you  know,'  said  he, 'where  I  got  ihatramaog 
Older  of  Diioe?  1  got  it  from  a  hook  of  London  Statntcs. 
I  changed  '■Ixindon''into  "New  Orleans,"  that  was  til. 


Is  there  any  truth  in  this  statement  of  Butier'e  P 


*  Sir  (HiverCockwood'a  servant. 


CA^iina. — Are  any  fragments  extant  of  the 
writinge  of  Canius  the  poet,  Martial's  Mend  P 
According  to  Emgrammata  (iii.  20,  and  vii.  68), 
both  Canins  Rufus  and  bis  wife  Theophila  must 
have  been  uncommonly  pleasant  people. 

MAKBOCaXIB. 

The  Cabmxlites. — Wh»e  ia  to  be  found  tha 
best  account  of  the  Carmelitea  in  England  before 
and  at  the  Dissolution  P  J.  R.  B. 

S  Pierre  Helyot  in  his  Hiiloirt  da  Ordnt  Mimtallipta, 
i,  4to,  tiss  given  aa  excellent  accoDDt  of  tbe  Carms- 
iiles,  or  VVIiile  Friars.  (3oninlt  also  Dugdaie'i  Mbnai- 
tieim.  edit.  1830,  vol.  vi.  pt,  in.  pp.  1568-1582;  Fuller's 
Church  Hiitory.  edic  1845,  iil.  272-277  ;  Newconrt'a  Bt- 
pciionini,  i.  666-668;  Foshroke's  Briiuk  Monachitm, 
eJit.  1S43,  pp.  78,  287;  and  for  other  works,  Itninet, 
Mantid  du  Liirairt,  edit.  1S«5,  vL  1170.  Joim  Dale, 
Bishop  of  Oseory,  nlu>  was  bimKlf  a  Carmeiile  friar, 
wrote  a  History  of  this  Order,  now  among  the  Hsrleiau 
manuscripts.  Mo.  18tS.  Of  Bais,  Weerer  thus  ipeiks  in 
his  f\iiural  MemmttUt,  p.  140,  qnoting  some  lines  from 
his  poem  "Do  Aiitiquitate  Fratrura  Carmetiianiin  :  " — 
"  He  speaks  much  in  the  honour  of  this  religions  order,  of 
which  he  was  a  memiKr  in  the  monastery  of  the  Carmea 
williin  ths  city  of  24orwlcb,  and  Soda  Limself  much  ag- 
grieved St  a  certgin  Lollsrd,  as  he  calls  him,  and  a  friar 
mendicant,  who  made  an  oration,  and  composed  certain, 
virulent  metres  sgainst  this  and  otber  of  the  reli^ona 
orders,  which  be  caoied  to  be  spread  abroad  throughou 
most  parts  of  England  in  the  year  18B8."1 

Competitors  fob  the  Cbowit  oe  Scotlaitb. — 
Wliere  shall  I  find  a  statement  of  the  pedigrees 
of  the  twelve  claimants  of  the  crown  of  Scotiand 


CosoBBVB'a  "DoBis."— In  n  work  entitled  Tha 
lAft,  Wnlingt,  and  Amottr»  of  William  Congrevt, 
Em.,  puWshed  without  any  printer's  name,  I7S0, 
I  find  it  stated  in  a  note  at  p.  166  that  th* 
"  Doris  "  of  Congreve's  poem  of  that  name,  com- 
mencing— 

"  Doris,  a  njmpb  of  riper  age. 
Has  every  grace  and  art," 

was  the  Viscounteu  F .     At  p.  63,  to  whicb 

the  reader  is  referred  in  the  above  note^  the  Vis- 
countess F is  aUuded  to  as  a  notonoiu  lady 

of  intrigue.    Is  it  knonn  who  this  ^Isconntesa 
" wasp  Tekplae. 

Danbt  ahb  Abunstof.^Id  the  cataltwue  of 

the  Ijondon  Library  ia  entered  a  book,  "  LMert 

'   'iatiby  ^Duke   of   Leeda)   to  Lord  ArkngUm. 

,  1710."    I  have  lately  mqnired  for  the  book 

at  the  London  Library ;  it  is  not  to  be  found.    Ia 

there  such  a  book  in  existence,  or  b  the  entry 

.  the  catali^e  a  mistake  P     The  library  pos-   1^^ 

iBMs    the  two  well-known  Tolnmes,   Danbj's\ 


NOTES  AKD  QUBSII^  [i«s.TiLArBiLt9,'7i. 


Metmnn  relative  to  Mi  ImptadtmtMtj  nd  hb  Lit- 
tert  vrittea  1676-8.  C. 

[Tba  IbnowiDg  ii  pnbtb^  th«  inn-k  Inqnlnd  (fter  :— 
Orntt  and  BxtriKlt  of  nau  Lttten  loritten  to  and  from 
-|<  HaH  ^  Danbf  («m  Dmlit  of  Lttdd),  m  Ha  Ttart 
""   l877.^-""=  -" "-'-  ■»— ' 


167S,  1S77,  md  1678,  wriihpai^HaUiT  Ikmarlu 
of  Atm.  SecoDd  EditioD.  Land.  1710,  "— 
don  M  in  tbi  BriUA  Mmmh.] 


Xui* 


«<U- 


Wridng  va  the  subject  of  tailing  of  HUioIaa. 

Jomr  EuuxE,  F^fkswr  op  Law,  £iiix- 
BimeB.— 1.  Tha  fint  edition  of  ?%  lixMCiitei  of 
t>m  Lmw  ^Scotiwi  wm  printed  and  naUisIisd  in 
177S,  after  Yaa  death,  bj  a  Mend  of  the  family. 
Who  was  that  frieiull  j  editor  F 

3.  Is  tLere  a  poitiut  of  Mr.  Enkino  in  esut- 
eoMp   If  so,  ia  whose 


"  But  Faihsb  Axszlko  will  iram  Asxnt," 
XEO.:  Abcbusbop  op  Cuixkilboki. — In  the 
Bfml  Acftdenqr  CaUagM  for  1846,  pictaie  No. 
615  is  deeciibed  hj  the  followiog  lines  on  An- 
•elm'a  death : — 

"  But  Fuhit  Aiuelma  iriU  never  ■sun 
Pmines  ill^MM  npon  Udia  or  iwauie  \ 
HJi  table  etm*  and  hij  laBdal'il  trcsd 
WiU  never  a^dn  tb«  forest  tbned  ; 
His  velooBie  voice  In  eottege  or  belt 
wm  laver  mon  Um  nn&igbt  noi  tbcelL" 
Oaa  700  infom  me  iriio  is  tbe  aatUoi  of  these 
linM^  and  ham  whvnca  thej  aie  taken  F    The 
BietHM  waa  painted  hy  Faanr  UalM> 

>—         '  C.O.H. 


SxDVBT  OopOLPSn. — I  cannot  find  is  aoj 


uda  Eail  of  Godolpfain,  and 
Lord  &gh  Treasurer,  and  a  fiunous  minister.  I 
should  he  g;lad  if  any  tA  yooi  readea  could  supply 
me  mth  tus  data. 

I  am  also  anxious  for  particuhus  of  another 
Sydney  Oodolphin,  a  ralative'of  the  former,  who 
was  one  of  the  wits  and  poets  of  Charles  IL's 
reiffo.  He  ia  mentioned  in  the  Memoiri  of  the 
Dtute  of  Buckingham,  prefixed  to  the"  Reheaieal," 
as  one  of  Buckingbam's  intdmatee;  and  I  suspect 
him  to  be  the  "  little  Sid.  fac  tdnula  renowned  " 
of  Lord  Unlgiave's  Enn  m  SMte,  and  not  Sir 
Ch«des  Bedley  or  a  biotliei  ot  Algernon  Sydney, 


P4BB."- 

infT  of  this  subject,  encubed  by  Adrien  LommeliB 
about  1600,  bean  the  fbllewing  dedication :  — 

■*  It.  JsMba  Dwuu  notiili  domeetlco  Wegb  AngBi^ 
Bingnlsrl  i^etoiiB  ulii  eoltorl,  hujus  arohetypi  tjhni—n 
inter  plorinu  poasldeatl  L.  H.  D.  C.  Q.  .fgidini  Hea- 
diiex.'' 

Who  was  thia  BBaito,  and  ia  there  uiy  reoofd 
of  his  eidlactim  of  |aetai«^  or  (J  its  ultasoata 
dsetinationF  B.  E.  G. 

Lbatkkwobie  Fault. — Can  any  reader  of 
"N.  &  Q."  tell  me  where  this  fiunily  spiung  finn, 
and  who  was  Sir  Lewis  Leayenworlh,  who  is  men- 
tioned in  Rnaaell's  X*m»  o^SoeenMe  Arsowtfs^  in 
the  life  of  Sir  Qwald  HMsey,  when  a  pari?  given 
by  Sir  Lewis  lisavsnworth  of  London  ia  ^olcen 
ott  The  date  was  about  1740-60.  Any  infbr- 
matiOD  respecting  the  above  will  be  thankfully 
leeeiTed  by  H.  A.  Baisbkiimb. 

M,  RiuhU  Bosd,  Kensington,  W. 

Ddkb  op  Hakchsbtsk:  Flkbi  Maksiaoss. — 
Bum,  in  hia  Sittory  of  Parochial  Segiiters,  in 
reference  to  these  marriages,  aayo: — 

«  AH  dams  flocksdto  the  Fleet  tomsrty  In  haste;  the 
legisUr  coMains  Ibe  nswrs  of  men  of  all  ranks  and  pro- 
feeriona.  Among  ttuarietecraliGMtianaof  Its  onlioeiued 
cbkplajne,  we  find  Edward  Loid  Abergavenny,  &«.  *e., 
tod  Lord  Moategoe,  tfterwarde  Duke  of  Msncbeitar." 
Which  Duke  of  Uanchestw  me  thisP  and  irtom 
didhemwyP  T.  P.  F. 

[TUi  wee  imqaettionibly  Robert  third  Doke  of  Hen- 
cMeter,  who,  accndisff  to  Kr  Eraton  Brrdges'  editioD 
of  CoUbu'i  ^MnvT^  67,  -sa  April  S,  inS,  w«U«l 
Hairiot,  daogfatM  anl  cahtir  of  Edmoid  Dnnch,  i' LiOlA 
Wittenham  in  BerluUnt,  Baqaire,  Master  of  tbe  Honae- 
hold  to  QmcD  Anne."  This  ii  the  marnaEe  which  tack 
place  at  tbe  Fl«t ;  for  in  Ban's  Fhtl  lUgitUrt,  p.  75, 
we  reed  as  follows  ; — '  17116,  April  S.  Rbbert  Sbntagn,  of 
Groavenor  Sqone,  and  Mia  Pknitt  I>imch,  B.  uni  Si"^ 

Maoasoqu.  —  What  is  the  dativation  of  the 
woid  nuicaroon,  the  best  of  desseit-cakesP  In  my 
opinion  a  dish,  of  macaroons,  a  di^  of  walnuts, 
and  a  decanter  of  '34  port  is  a  desaert  fit  lor  an 
emperor — ays,  were  ho  Emperor  of  Geimaoyat 
Versailles  before  a  starving  Paa&  AL  D. 


edl^ 

ita£t 

IS  attributed,  have 


of  Diyden,  to  whom  tbe  poem 
re  soppoasd.  W.  D.  C. 


r*  An  engravstf  poitrak  of  John  Erekine  of  Cardroat, 
advocate  410,  appears  in  Erans'i  Cfatofone  of  Portrait*, 

ToLI.p.llS.— to.] 


[Itslisn  ■Meami,  introdocsd  throncb  the    Fieadi 

Mab&iasb  Sebticx  hot  allowxd  to  Cok- 
uEircB  AFTEB  TwzLTB  o'clock.  —  A  lad^  con^ 
miariona  me  to  ask  the  reason  of  this  pcohibition. 
I  thought  it  might  have  originated  when  man 
was  perfornied  at  the  msrriage.  Will  some  oaa 
kindly  pacify  the  fair  inquirer's  mind,  who  svi- 
dently  eonsiden  tiiat  a  veiy  subetantial  reason 
should  be  g^ven  by  tbe  cle^^an  why  he  should 


*3.vilapmlS9,'7i.]  KOTES  and  QUEKIES. 


365 


Sm  iowK  lUam.Shy  I  tub  wliedMc  Ue. 
Savdu,  Tdcxxb,  wko  tmit  TarieuB  inqaiiies  m 
"N.  &  Q."  in  186S  aa  to  the  dBscendamU  of  Sir 
J(^  Harca,  is  itill  deMioH  of  obteinwig  inforan- 
■       ■     ,f  P.M. 


8  Tola.,  pnated  lit  both  Freodi  Mid  F.ngliH>i,  date 
1733  P  ''  Umim :  |au>ted  £»  J<^  Watts  at  the 
FrinUoff  Office  in  W^d-Court  near  tdncoln's  Inn 
IleUi.''  Thwe  U  a  aepazate  dedlofttioa  prefixed 
to  Mdb  pli^.    It  ia  ntber  anrauag  to  Me  Mon- 


adrertifieDMnU  of  books  and 
mwic  at  the  esd  et  the  volnauB  to  mad  of  Mr. 
Shakeqtean  and  Jfri  Haadell 

Jos  AUtm  TlnnmiTBa- 

QtroTAnoira  VAinm. — 
•' Rattle  bb  bones 
Over  the  itonea, 
He^  rail;  a  VtBf  that  TtboSy  owne." 

W.  P.  P. 

^..  _  DriTt"  whid. 

u  deed,  H  bp  T.  Nod, 


IMUikSIMi   Ititi^iiatadinCaMall'aPai^Aiulii^, 
8cii<iip.I9fi.] 

Where  are  the  following  linei  to  be  found  F— 

"When  Italte  floth  pcnrBOD  want. 
And  tiattew  are  a  Eogbnd  teuit, 
WbsB  Fmee  k  ef  ooBnotfan  free, 
Tha  world  witlMM  aaMRh  il^l  be." 

RB.K. 
Wbanoe  cornea  fbe  followinK  line  concenmig 
ihe  aflectian  of  a  dog  for  ita  dead  master  f — 

"  It  did  not  know,  poor  foe^  adi;  lore  ehoold  not  be 
tme  to  deatb." 

A.  0.  V.  P. 
Wh«t  piece  of  poebj  b^iiu  irith — 
'■'TheinndbaaalaogmgalKUliI  cooldleara." 

P.  I.  F.  GumuaiT, 
Where  ia  the  foQovi^  qnotation  taken  from  ? — 
"'Who  pUloiopken  hrnm  dOM  their  »ont,lvii  aad 
two  etiU  Buike  toju," 

A. 
A  few  da^a  ahice  X  bend  a  geartlraaan  quote 
tte  foUowing  aDi^fihit>— 

"  Tab  not  to  nw  of  hmghnde  orlaStade, 

Bat  td  me  raOkerv^aivto  levkte  gntltBit*." 
Oan  anj  of  jonr  ctnteapondanta  tell  me  irltere 
the  linefl  occni  and  who  ia  tlieir  auAor  P 

E.  A.D. 

"  The  mors  I  lean  (be  leu  I  tblnk  I  Imow." 

About  G%  fens  tamee  I  set  witb  ttia  aen- 

tence.     I  hn«  always  tixngbt  it  was  in  Ae 

wBtingi  of  Siflbop  BBmilg^  kit  Jseant^  l«afaed 


unsuccesifully    for   it.     Can    anj  coirespondent 
oblige  me  with  a  referenoe  to  its  aonrce  P 

Jaiie3  0i£1IEBT. 
"  Tmiqail  its  qMt  seemed  and  doated  «1ow ; 
Erenin  ita  verr  moUon  then  was  reat" 

H.D.B, 
Sir  JoEif  HiBMis  Whittield. — In  the  Om- 


.  Whitfield, 
aged  101."  It  ia  iaso  atttted  tiiat "  ke  took  tha 
name  cfWbitUd  k  1700  hj  AeC  of  Paitiamont 
Ml  ^oGceeding  to  tko  erttttai  cf  John  Whatfi^ 
£f^  of  YoAaUre."  I  ineUM  to  tbe  belM  that 
tUa  Btnal:  be  tbe  oelebiatod  Adnitttl  Sir  John 
Hhiwi,  wIm  waa  flag-captain  vader  Adsdral 
Fanuef  the  sh^  which  earned  ibe  Dake  of  YoA 
(aftorwarda  Joans  H.)  to  Um  W«at  Indiaa  in 
I6S4-6.  Inthelifeaf  AdmiMlHannanin£Myn». 
(•UaJUxaJM^  it  ia  stated  Oat  tha  lame  md^M»«f 
■JB  dead)  WHO  wt^MOwn,  wbick  sn^  F"™*P"  *** 
aoeoatedfivbrtinachaaigeofimaa.  aboildany 
of  fotat  eorreniwdenta  he  able  to  wnfim  tUa,  oc 
Aew  how  Adniinl  Sir  Jolm  Hannan  and  John 
Whitfield  wMe  «aaaact«d,  a  veay  intaicatSng 
queatioH  would  be  adradj  a«d  piobablf  mboo 
BHtJientic  eriAeace  as  to  Ine  age  mJKirt  be  uaeM 
uiaoUlingthepcantaflmgontjac  often  diwoned 
in  jour  cotumna.  As  iiiiiiiiiMalia^  »  ah^ ct  war 
in  1664,  and  not  djing  iSl  avraBtjr  years  afar- 
vnida,  a  etroog  apfnach  to  ttia  age  asaioned  hai 
ia  aetoal^r  axn««a  at  There  wwe  b  ih^  ot 
Whitfielda  near  Uaaterfam;,  bit  I  did  not  m»- 
ceed  in  fladtag  any  will  of  a  John  WhitSdldait 
York  anyiriuM  obtMt  the  time  mentioBed. 

JnaiOT  Unitea  flenrieeCbA.  W.  Nvmoxz. 

Wkbci  of  thk  Tkkpli.  —  Aa  my  query  re- 
speedi^  the  -wndk  of  the  brig  Temple  omast  be 
M  general  'inteTest,  I  write  to  give  my  addrei^ 
ftccor&tg  to  the  notice  at  tha  end  of  "  N.  ft  Q." 

I  inow  -who  the  passengets  were,  hot  lien  I 
hare  bo  proof,  and  caoncrt  refer  to  any  record. 

The  finmcrwere,  1.  George  Archer,  M.D.,  wbo 
afterwarda  died  in  Scinde,  while  anrgeon  of  the 
64tii  Sediment,  be  being  then  married  to  hia 
second  w^e  Louisa  Hnrtwell,  dan^ter  of  the 
TicaMSeneral  of  the  lale  of  Man.  (His  widow 
married,  secondly,  at  Anababad,  Major  Greatbead 
of  lie  8th  Foot,now8irE.  aOreathead,  K.C.R; 
and  on  her  death,  the  second  hnsband  again  mar- 
ried.) 

3.  Elisabe^,  hia  first  wife,  and  wbo  waa  after- 
wards  drowned  wlien  the  Great  liveniDol,  re- 
turning from  Bombay,  was  wrecked  off  the  coaat 
of  Spain  in  1846  or  '0. 

S.  Their  son   (only  cbDd)  W.  K.,  afterwitda 
CapL  in  78tb  Highlanders,  and  ^o,  after  ex- 
changing  to  Idth  Bef^iment,  died  at  Clifton  in 
IBBl  from  the  efiects  of  the  camp^gn  of  ie57-8 ,  C 
in  iDfEa.  T.  H.  Sail.  Aschkb.  ' 

1,  W^tingtw  Ttrrara,  AjMbarj. 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES.         c**s.vri.  afbilw.ti. 


GAINSBOROUGH'S  "BLDE  BOY." 


<4"8.  ui.576; 


r.  17, 


The  hiitoij  of  the  otwdkI  "Blus  Boy,"  in  the 
hitods  of  lui  able  wrt-ftathor,  would  make  «  popu- 
lar and  intMesting  volnme.  The  feud  between 
the  two  ^at  painters  to  which  the  origin  of  the 
jnctnre  la  due;  the  feelings  of  triumph  on  one 
side  and  of  discomfituTe  on  the  other  at  ite  auccea^- 
Saldibutial770;  the  cold-colour  Bermonjpreached 
a^nat  it  in  1778 ;  ita  purchase  by  the  Prince  of 
Wales,  and  its  Bojouni  in  Carlton  House ;  the 
dinner  oTet  which  it  was  sold  bf  the  prince  to 
John  Neabitt,  £eq.,M.P. ;  ita  presence  amongst 
the  fiist-class  pictures  hj  foreign  masters  in  Nes- 
tHttfs  collection,  and  its  ttppearaoce  at  his  sale  in 
1602;  its  Bojonm  with  Hoppnar  and  others  during 
the  unaettled  state  of  Neabitt'a  affiurs ;  its  restora- 
tion t»  Nesbilt  in  1816 ;  ita  sale  hy  Neabitt  about 
18S0 ;  its  purohaie  by  Hall,  at  whoee  sale  in  18S8 
it  appeareaBa"aportraitof  the  Frinoe  of  Wales," 
ftnd  Its  subsequent  straggle  to  regain  ita  right 
pontion  in  pcturedom,  would  supply  ample  ma- 
terials for  such  a  volume. 

Here,  howoTer,  we  must  be  as  brief  as  poadble. 
During  the  last  century  there  arose  two  great 
painters  in  England — Sir  Joshua  Rejiiolds,  able, 
eool,  and  diplomatic;  and  Thomas  GBinshorougb, 
telanted,  impuldve,  and  non-diplomatic. 

The  forte  of  Sir  Joehua  was  portraiture,  and  it 
became  a  part  of  his  poUcy  to  depreciate  Oains- 
borough's  portrdta,  but  to  praise  his  landscapes. 
Carey  tells  an  anecdote  illustratire  of  this  pohcy. 
He  stated  that  at  one  of  the  meetings  of  the 
B.A.B  Sir  Joshua  proposed  "  the  health  of  Oaius- 
borough,  our  best  lanHaciuie  punter,"  whereupon 
Wilson,  whose  forte  was  laDcLscape,  retorted  when 
his  turn  cf«te,  "  the  health  of  GMnaborough,  our 
hatjmiraii  peunter." 

To  show  by  an  example  that  Sir  Joshua's 
policy  was  not  well  founded,  the  "Blue  Boy" 
was  painted  by  Gtunsborough — a  work  in  wluch 
genius  to  conceive  happily,  and  skill  to  execute 
admirably  are  so  harmoniously  combined  tiiat  it 

"  littedlv  '■  ■      ■ ■    ■■ 


IS  into  the  ideal  of  portruture." 


1  that « 


admittei 

Tradi 

pomtion 

cess,  but  gave  annoyance  to  Sir  .__ 

not  foij^otlen  when  Oainahorough'a  application  for 
a  apecul  place  for  a  apecial  picture — the  group 
of  the  three  royal  princesses—painlod  fur  his  life- 
long patron,  0«orga  Prince-  of  Wales,  was  Hrbi> 
tranly  refuaed.  There  seems  to  be  no  doubt  this 
refusal  was  resented  by  the  king  and  hdrniparent 
as  well  as  by  Gainsborough.  The  Mornmg 
Beraid  (April  23  and  23, 1784)  strongly  censured 


if  royally  inspired,  for  it  thus  conclude 
"  In  tin  nama  of  charl^  what  oAoca  has  been  cum- 
nittsd  by  the  three  prinoaaei  that  Uwy  an  nfoisd  a 
aUoaUoD  imrhidi  theu  ebuma  mi^t  appaii  in  a  proper 
Uf  bt  ?  It  ia  a  point  which  «uiiu)t  be  Miily  detemuDcd, 
iA>)tbat  tba  conduct  oT  tha  conodl  of  the  RA.  ba  not 
a  greater  aSroDt  towards  nujcstj  than  to  tbe  artist" 

The  offence  did  not  lie  \a  the  tninceasea,  but 
solely  in  the  able  manner  in  which  their  chigms 
had  been  transferred  to  the  canvas. 

The  defence  of  the  council  which  appeared  in 
the  Pvl^  Advertuer  (April  24,  1784)  reads  «b 
if  from  the  pen  of  Reynolds,  for  it  breathes  his 

Enlicy  throughout  It  beg^s :  "  That  the  Exbi- 
ition  should  be  deprived  of  the  landscape  pencil 
of  such  a  painter  as  Mr.  OainalwrouKh  is  not  ■ 
Uttle  to  be  lamented  " ;  buttheraienolamentatioa 
about  the  loss  of  his  portrut-pendl  or  the  exclu- 
sion of  the  group  of  royal  portraila  about  which 


Was  there  a  lively  ft|ipreheiuaoii  that,  tcoia  th« 
exalted  rank  of  the  pnnceaaes  and  the  patronage 
of  the  king  and  the  Prince  of  Wales,  tnese  por- 
traits would  have  proved  to  he  even  a  greater 
success  for  GainsliorouKh  in  fashionable  society 
than  Uie  "Blue  Boy'' had  been,  and  votes  were 
influenced  accordingly  against  any  relaxation  of 
the  hanging  rules  ? 

The  study  for  the  group  of  princesMS  waa 
No.  S4  in  the  lata  winter  exhibition  of  the  R.A., 
and  it  showed  that  Barnolda  had  cause  for  tbe 
jealousy  he  was  openly  charged  with  by  tbe 
Mornmg  Herald.  'The  ucture  itself,  but  in  a 
mutilated  state  which  spout  ita  effect  was  No.  119 
in  the  previous  winter  ezhibition.  This  mn- 
tilstion,  we  have  been  told,  was  the  act  of  a 
re-arranger  of  the  royal  collection  to  make  it  fit 
some  odd  place  or  other. 

Upon  the  various  phases  of  the  Reynolds  and 
Gunsborough  controversy,  one  is  almost  forced  to 
conclude  that  their  i^uanel  in  1772,  only  two 
years  after  the  ezhibitioD  of  the  "  Blue  Bey," 
which  led  Gainsborough,  to  his  own  detriment, 
to  send  no  pictures  to  the  R.A.  daring  the  ensuing 
four  years;  the  motion  carried  in  1776  to  strike 
Gainsborough's  name  off  the  list  of  BA-s,  but 
afterwards  resdnded;  the  cold-colour  sermon 
preached  agcunst  the  offending  "Blue  Boy"  in 
l7i'8,  the  year  after  Gainsborough  once  moi» 
began  to  send  pictures  to  the  R.A. :  and  the  arbi- 
trary refusal  of  bis  request  in  1784  for  a  particular 
position  for  the  group  of  princeesea,  if  not  all  steps 
in  the  depreciatory  policy  of  Sir  Joshua,  afibrd 
food  for  thought  at  any  rats.  Yet  when  death 
had  removed  his  great  and  gifted  rival,  Sir  Joshua 
paid  a  handsome  tribute  to  his  memory,  as  "a 
foeman  worthy  of  his  steel,"  even  if  the  depre(9a>  ^ 
torypolicy  does  pop  through  in  plaoas.  lL 

The  king  waa  a  staunch  patron  of  Qainahoron^ 


4»8.vii.Ap«i..29,7i.3  NOTES  AND  QUERIES, 


but  he  dieliked  Reynolds ;  tnd  the  poUcj  of  the 
latter  towntda  the  king's  faTOurite  vfts  almost 
cerbun  to  btiug  both  the  king  and  the  Prince  of 
Wales  to  tlie  side  of  Qainaborough  at  tbe  time. 

it,  then,  the  cold-colour  diaeonrse  of  1778  did 
not  lead  to  the  purchiwe  of  the  "  Blue  Boy  "  for  » 

Salace,  the  event  of  1784  wu  almost  certain  to 
tve  brought  about  such  a  result  as  a  spetual 
mark  of  royal  patronage.  When,  therefore,  we  hear 
from  a  subsequent  owner  of  the  picture,  Mr.  Nes- 
bitt,  that  it  once  belonged  to  the  Prince  of  Wales 
(George  IV.>,  it  is  notbing  more  than  under  tbe 
circuQutances  was  to  be  expected.     In  a  aimilnr 

Sirit  the  prince  afterwards  "  crowded  the  studio 
Hopjmer  with  princes,  peers,  and  fine  ladies  in 
oppoaiuon  to  Opie,  Owen,  and  Lawrence."  *  But 
if  tbe  cold  -  colour  discouree  did  contribute  to  place 
the  ''Blue  Boy  "  in  a  royal  collectjon,  so  now 
it  is  proposed  to  dte  it  as  afToTding  cngent  eri- 
dence  that  the  green  "  Blue  Boy  "  was  the  very 
offender  agiunst  which  that  sermon  was  carefully 
prepared  and  dehvered  to  tbe  rising  generation  of 
art  students. 

The  "  Blue  Bor  "  appeared  as  a  novelty  in  the 
art-world  which  rormed  a  contrast  with,  and  made 
a  greater  impresaion  than,  an  ordinarr  portrait  of 
the  boy  would  have  done.  Grace  ana  aignity  are 
conspicuoaa  features  of  the  **  Blue  Boy,"  and 
simplicity  of  treatment  was  Oaiueborongh's  forte. 
Masses  of  light  in  a  cold  colour  on  the  principel 
figure  in  Ibe  middle  of  the  picture  are  other 
features  of  the  "  Blue  Boy." 

Now  these  features,  which  then  gave  and  still 
give  celebrity  to  the  picture,  form  the  chief  held' 
ings  discussed  in  that  sermon.  Novelty  and  OOU' 
trasts,  as  a  means  of  producing  a  "  more  forcible 
expression "  tlian  ordinary  procedure,  are  con- 
demned ;  grace  and  dignity  added  to  the  lepre- 
aented  are  also  condemned  in  strong  language  as 
betraying  "  vulgarity  and  meanness  ;  simplicity 
is  treated  as  uften  "  diia^reeable  and  nauseous 
affiKtation  " ;  mssses  of  light  in  one  colour  is  mXA 
to  resemble  "  an  artiet's  first  essay  in  imitating 
nature  ";  the  position  of  a  principal  figure  in  the 
midst  of  a  picture  under  the  principal  liffht  is 
commented  on  as  creatins  "  needless  ditliciUties  " 
if  generally  acted  on ;  and  a  cold-coloured  central 
figure,  with  warm  colours  surrounding,  are  con- 
demned as  "gross  heterodoxy  involving  difhcultieB 
beyond  the  power  of  art,  even  in  the  hands  of 
Rubeits  or  Titiin,  to  make  a  picture  splendid  and 
harmonious"  (fnr  less  Gainsborough,  who  was  no 
doubt  implied).  Then  follows  the  appti<xaion  of 
the  sermon  to  the  efTender  in  the  preacher's  "mind's 
eye,"  which  has  been  so  long  assigned  as  the  eame 
of  the  '*  Blue  Boy's  "  production.  Descending 
from  generalisation  to  particulaiisation,  Sir  Joshua 
apolt^ises  for  the  step,  and  aays ; — 


"Thaogh  it  Ii  not  my  bai'mtu  to  enter  into  the  detaO 
of  our  art,  vet  1  must  take  this  opportuoitj:  of  mention- 
iogoneortbe  means  of  prodacinK  that  Ereateflsct  which 
we  obserrs  in  the  works  o(  the  Yeaetlaii  paiaters,  as  \ 
thiak  it  is  not  generally  known  or  observed.  It  onghi, 
la  Di;  opiDiou,  to  lie  iDdiapenubly  observed  that  the 
moaes  or  light  in  ■  pictare  be  alwaji  of  ■  warm  mellow 
colour,  yellow,  red,  or  yeltonlsh-wbite ;  siid  that  the 
blue,  the  gray,  and  tbe  green  colours  b«  used  only  to 
support  and  to  set  off  these  warm  colonic,  nni]  fur  this 
purpose  a  unall  proportion  of  cold  colour)  will !»  soffi- 

Now  the  two  chief  colours  condemned  here  as 
too  cold  for  portraiture,  grttn  and  lAit — for  grey 
is  more  of  a  coiy  than  a  cold  colour — ore  pre- 
cisely the  leading  colours  of  the  green  "Blue 


.o/rui. 


1,  by  AIUd  Cunningham,  v.  241. 


Boy's 

In  short  this  discourse  appears  to  prove,  almost 
to  demonstration,  that  tbe  "  Blue  Boy  "  was  then 
an  ofiender  or  heretic  of  standing,  or  no  such  ser- 
mon would  have  been  launched  ogtunst  hie  hetero- 
doxy, and  that  the  original  {ucture  was  a  green 
blue-clad — consequently,  that  the  green  "  Blue 
Boy"  must  be  tbe  originni  picture. 

The  history  of  the  original  picture,  which  haa 
passed  current  for  so  many  years,  is  the  vernon 
embodied  in  tbe  pedigree  of  the  Grosvenor  or  pale 
"Blue  Boy,"  as  it  appears  in  Young's  lUiutrated 
Catalogue  of  the  Grormnor  Oalleni,  published  in 
1831. 

Young,  after  mentioning  the  infiuence  which 
the  "  Blue  Boy's  "  success  exercised  in  enhancing 
the  reputation  of  Qdusborougb,  says,:  "The  pic- 
ture was  purchased  at  Ur.  Buttalls  aale  by  Mr. 
Nesbitt;  it  became  afterwards  the  propetty  of 
Mr.  Hoppner,  who  disposed  of  it  to  Earl  Uros- 
veuor  " — but  whether  to  the  first  or  the  second  earl 
is  not  ststed. 

In  a  more  or  less  modified  form  this  pedigree 
appears,  with  all  its  errors,  in  subsequent  works 
on  art.  In  one  of  the  ls.test  of  them,  Fulcber'^ 
Life  of  Oainiborough  (18fi0),  it  Is  given  in  these 
somewhat  different  words:  "At  Mr.  Buttall'a 
death,  the  'Blue  Boy'  was  purchased  by  Mr. 
Nesbitt ;  the  picture  was  afterwrnda  in  the  poa- 
session  of  Hr.  Hoppner,  the  painter,  who  sold  it 
to  tbe  first  Ear!  Grosvenor."  Thus  supplying  the 
information  that  the  pale  "  Blue  Boy  "  was  bought 
by  the  first  Earl  Grosvenor,  who  died  in  1802. 
Such  is  what  may  be  called  the  ofiicial  pedigree 
of  the  psle  "Blue  Boy";  but  it  u  erroneous,  as 
has  been  pointed  out  to  the  effect  that  Nesbitt 
did  not  obtain  the  "Blue  Boy  "at  Buttall's  salt-, 
but  from  tbe  Prince  of  Wales ;  and  that  Hopmier 
did  not  sell  the  original  "  Blue  Boy "  to  Earl 
Grosvenor,  as  the  Grosvenor  picture  was  bought 
from  a  dealer  ("  N.  &  Q- "  4"  8.  iv.  237 ;  t.  17.) 

The  trade  history  of  the  pale  "  Blue  Boy  "  has 
also  appeared  to  the  effect  that  it  was  first  heard 
of  at  an  auction-room  sale,  without  a  frame  and 
with  a  hole  in  it ;  and  that  after  pasnng  through 
the  bands  of  several  dealers,  who  had  it  repaired 


368 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


[4*S.yiI.A»Blt»,'71. 


and  framed,  it  woa  Bold  fur  the  GrasveDor  collec- 
tion ("  N.  &  Q.,"  4*  S.  iv.  237.) 

The  trade  hiatorj  saemi  to  be  aasSimiei  Ij  the 
inetuK  it«elf,  if  it  dnea,  m  it  is  aud  to  do,  cany 
on  its  face  and  back  eridfince  of  n  hole  haTkig 
been  repaired,  and  of  ite  baring  been  lined  u  a 
consequence. 

When  this  pietare  was  bung  ftt  S  right  b^bt 
Ust  vesT  at  Burlington  House,  a  repaiwd-looliiDg 
patch  of  an  irregnlar  triangular  autline,  'with  its 
difietent  shade  of  colour — £«  too  sweet  juveaility 
of  the  face,  more  essecially  the  lower  portion  of 
it,  for  a  maalj  jouth  of  fire  feet  is  stature — and 
sondrj  uD-Gainfiboraugh-like  manipulatJooe  in  the 
detail — were  readily  seen,  and  led  Bome  judges 
to  think  it  waa  not  a  Oaiiuborougb.  Kren 
now,  when  hnng  about  thre«  fuet  too  high  at 
Sooth  Kenangtou,  through  a  good  glass  the 
above  drawbacks  may  be  seen. 

Bat  it  mij  be  uked  whv  It  baa  be^n  hnng  m> 
iagk  there,  and  in  oontraet  with  t^  big  brown 
faded  portrnit  of  Hrs.  Sidd<ms  as  the  "Tragic 
Muaa  ''by  Reynolds,  as  if  in  reTiral  of  the  olden 
feud,  instead  of  having  btett  hung  in  tontiKst  with 
an  natoached  Gaiasbaiough  <^  th»  stmo  land- 
scape back^ound  clase,  OTUie  green  "Blue  Boy  "P 
Let  any  vuitor  to  th«  Museuna  compare  the  sky 
of  the  "Blue  Boy"  there  with  that  of  "Mu«- 
dom"  or  "The  Watering  Phcej"  both  by  Qains- 
borongh,  in  an  adjoining  room,  and  the  contrast 
can  hardly  fail  to  be  interesting  and  soggastire. 

W«  now  come  to  Nesbitt's  faietcay  of  the 
oHgiaal  "  Blue  Boy,"  and  a  heltei  authority  can- 
not be  referred  to :  for  he  is  the  admitted  owner 
of  the  picture  formerly,  and  also  tlie  gaitleman 
from  whom  the  pale  "  Blue  Boy "  claiois  its 
orwinality.  J.  Sbweli,  Assoc.  Inst  U.E. 

liw  Lombard,  ex:. 

(To  t<  comilmdiid  u>  om  not) 


MUEAL  PAINTISG  IN  STAHSTON  CHOBCH, 

NORFOLK. 

(J'"  a  vi.  542, 677 ;  viL  40, 172,  215.) 

In  answer  to  G.  A.  C.  I  beg  toatatetbat  tbetoul 
ia  never  represented  in  mediieval  art  aa  harii^  »ex. 
When  1  wrote  upoa  tbis  subject,  in  answer  to 
F.  C.  H.,  I  bad  not  tbe  dnwin^  by  me,  and  trusted 
entirely  to  the  description  given  by  that  writer. 
Since  I  have  studied  the  details  minutelv,  I  find  that 
description  inaccnrnte,  and  therefore  lUl  deductions 
thereon  fail-  The  devils  show  us  an  altar  with 
representation  of  cmdfixion,  a  priest  in  damible, 
not  cope,  EtaDding  by,  and  reaching  towards  a  ton- 
euted  Sgnre  to  receive  (appwently)  the  scroll  oi 
scbednle  which  be  holds,  and  on  which  ia  an  in- 
scription. At  thiB  bbA  ol  the  painting,  it  is  dear 
that  the  squares,  and  all  below,  are  parte  of  an 
earlier  decoration  mdeneath,  and  form  no  paK 
of  the  present  subject,  llat,  which  has  been 
called  a  shield  is  certainly  no  ^eld  at  all,  and  I 


have  beard  frsM  the  Smv.  Lee  Warner  that  the 
mattiggs  npcrn  it  wwe  exMednigly  ohseare,  and 
I  waa  fortber  eonfltaMd  in  my  ^nnion  that  in 
minnte  detaile  the  diswingia  not  to  be  entirely 
truated.  Behind  the  figure  with  the  scroll  is  cne 
with  cltsped  hands,  and  certainly  from  Uie  treat- 
ment, one  of  importance  in  the  oonpeaitian. 

Then,  there  is  tite  lady  who  fMtna  1^  coitoe 
fignre,  evidently  one  of  rank,  erea  if  it  n  not 
certain,  aa  O.  A.  C  asaerts,  tliat  she  weaia  a 
coronet.  If  tUa,  however,  be  the  ease,  it  will  tend 
to  strengthen  my  opinion,  now  entertained,  of 
Aa  eubj*<d:.  Near  Iwr  ie  a  risled  figure,  snem- 
iogrly  holding  a  book,  but  this  is  doaUfnl ;  tlien 
a  miKellaneous  gronp  oomtng  in.  There  is  a 
diapered  covering  which  I  cannot  think  ie  in- 
tended for  a  bedj  in  fact,  what  I  pronoance  to  be 
nn  altar  has  evidently  been  miatalien  t<x  a  pllow. 
In  front  of  this  covering  is  whet  Hf^teare  to  be  a 
carved  tonrti.  The  angdd  whb  the  soul  completes 
the  picture.  ■ 

Now,  if  this  weva  merely  the  t«eMd  of  abenefaD- 
tress— a  subject  possible,  but  I  must  say  not  in 
accord  with  our  experience,  although  Bn.  Rock 
does  cetRrtenance  sich  a  view — there  vronld«dtfaer 
be  leaa  drcumatanee,  or  Ae  true  reading  womldbe 
easy  and  simple ;  bnt  thia  la  by  no  means  the  case. 
In  MSS.  such  subjects  ai«  foand,  bst  thia  is  a 
di6erent  matter  to  [facing  is  a  cbnrch  what 
reftlly  is  romething  ram^mentary  to  nn  iodivi- 
doal.  We  want  tne  etrongeBt  evidence  tiefore  we 
can  admit  such  a  view.  Alt  our  experiences  of 
medieval  art  point  to  one  goreming  idea — viz. 
■Ae  laity's  instruction  in  religion  through  the  eye. 
It  was,  indeed,  the  priocipre  laid  down  at  Uie 
second  Conncil  of  Kicea.  It  therefore  appears  to 
me,  that  this  picture  would  more  naturally  belong 
to  a  paasaee  in  the  life  of  some  saint.  That  it  re- 
preaewti  the  Anonaption  is  so  utterly  natenaUe 
a  pToporitioD  that  it  is  mere  waste  of  time  to 
vxuiia  it  The  legtntd  to  which  it  seems  to 
me  to  refer  is  that  of  S.Mary  Magdalene.  Thisia 
too  long  to  insert  at  length,  but  it  is  fntl  of  in- 


ineidents  in  one  writer.  In  my  opinion  the  paint- 
ing repteeents  the  deaA  of  S.  Mary  Magoalene, 
the  bare  deUila  of  which  are  as  follows : — She 
pleached  at  Marseillee,  and  csnverted  the  prince 
of  the  province,  together  with  his  lady,  througi 

K'ving  them  a  pioinwe  of  offspring  by  her  prayers. 
I  a  Tovage  thev  then  nndertnok  to  visit  S.  Ivter, 
the  wire  brougbt  forth  a  child  and  died.  The 
body  was  put  arfiore,  and  the  child  laid  by  her 
side,  having  no  meaiM  <^  subrist«iae.  On  the 
fatbm  retaming,  he  vinted  tiie  aaot  where  the 
body  had  been  laid,  and  found  both  wife  and 
child  alive.  Tbis  is  the  first  pert  of  the  legend. 
S.  Mary  Magdalene,  living  in  the  desert,  fie-i 
qnently  had  the  conunuii<u)  dC  «ngpls,^F,p^l^lfU  ^' 


4'»8.TIiAl«lt,29,'nO 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


end  to  b»  near,  she  sent  word)  to  M.-rinAt^  Ufdiop 
of  Aiz,  dtat  (he  wmdd  «pp««r  at  ft  certain  Itow 
m  the  ontorf,  in  whiclt  he  pet((«nMd  Us  deT»' 
tifms.  Mvcimiii  Hcconlinglj-aMmuUed  the  eitKgj, 
and  went  into  the  ontarf  at  tbe  time  ay  pointed, 
nod  there  {bund  the  nint,  who,  having  partook  of 
the  sacraoient  of  our  lord's  body,  aftarwaids  &11 
down  dead  to  &oat  of  the  altar.  UaziiiuD  aftet- 
waids  erdeied  hie  tomb  to  bemade  (^OM  to  tb*  apot 

Now  to  appljr  this  to  the  punting.  We  bree 
an  nltai  and  pricet  in  emharidk  Twtmmt;  the 
diapaied  eorennr  ie  ilaulvdew  orer  the  dead  bo^, 
and  the  tomb  iam  front  Whikt  hna  bMn  tailed  a 
shield  I  should  imagine  to  hare  beon  a  chalice :.  I 
cannot  tnut  tbe  diairiiig,eipeciallj  as  I  hmr  that 
this  part  waa  Teiy  obaeiin,  and  nj  experience 
teaehee  me  how  easj  it  ie  to  en  in  auch  detwia. 
Then  the  lady  with  coronet  (?)  would  be  the  prin- 
ceaa;  tbe  veiled  figure  bj  her  side  Martha,  who 
also  bel(»g«  to  thiskgMMarj  hbtor*;  thu crowd, 
the  assembled  deigj,  ead  peo^  ;  tae  tiguit  with 
clwped  hande  plainlj  attired,  the  pilgrim  prince. 

Now  the  inscription  must  be  conjidercd.  The 
scroll  has  three  wordSjBach  separated  by  a  con- 
Tflotional  colon  (:).  The  diaughtaman  is  hardly 
likely  to  hare  ened  in  tUa.  It  was  not  an  uni- 
versal convention ;  sometimea  it  is  a  ^ojtle  stop ; 
more  often  tiiwe  is  none  at  all.  We  have  therafore 
three  words  to  deal  with.  The  drawing  gives 
"pBOGX:...iiB(P):iaAK[i."  If  wsadant  de-evi- 
dence of  tliree  morde,  we  cannot  allow  of  tbe  nnioa 
of  the  fiist  uul  second  to  make  tbe  word  "  ptocede" 
or  "  procedento,"  nor  can  we  admit  "  pro  to  "  on 
Bccoont  of  the  want  of  tbe  atop  between.  Nothi^ 
is  more  connon  than  enots  in  dtafis  of  insert^ 
tiODS  when  the  Wtteis  are  at  all  obscnzed ;  and 
there  ar»  certain  clMwaetera  in 
tela  thna  freonanlly  cctti&>iinded :  a.  ^"^^  ^ 
and  0)  and  ir  and  v,  Su.  If  «a  reject  the  read- 
inga  ea  above,  we  cannot  accept  ^  psoca  "  as  a 
correct  rendering. 

My  snggeation  ta  that  the  inscription  shoald 


read  "psbck :  lat. :  kaku." 


isbeadnusaible. 


to  which 

in  referance  to  the  p*nyer  of  S.  Mary  Magda- 
lene tfaroogh  which  ompaag  was  obtained  by  the 
twince.  But  there  is  even  anotlier  pait  of  the 
legend  to  which  thia  might  refer :  a  unner  in- 
Bcribed  his  sns  upon  a  schedule,  and  placed  it 
beneath  the  cover  of  the  altar  of  S.  Marv  Magda- 
lene. On  retaking  it,  it  was  found  to  be  blank. 
Tbe  inscriptioa  would  be  pertinent  here.  I  have 
omitted  to  mention,  that,  on  the  deceaae  of  tbe 
saint,  angels  were  aeen  to  carry  awM-  her  soul 
with  Bonga  and  bymns;  and  I  may  mrther  add, 
that  in  a  woodcut  illustratioii  to  her  life  in  a  copy 
I  have  of  Petrvs  de  NalaUbu*  the  aoul  is  being 
borne  to  heaven  as  in  the  Starston  painting. 
68,  Bolsovcr  Street.  J.  G.  Wallbb. 


L1SES  ON  TEE  HDICAN  EAR. 
(4<'S.vii.336,S34.) 
Your  correspondent  Mb.  W.  E.  A.  AioN  hav- 
ing afforded  a  clue  to  the  discfivery  of  these  lines, 
tbe  kindness  of  my  fiiend  Mr.  Latey,  of  the  Ilbu- 
trated  London  Newt,  has  done  the  rest  ^hey 
appeared  in  that  journal  (vid.  xx.),  Jan.  17, 1862. 
Ferhapa  as,  like  Mrs.  Baidell  in  Pickwick,  they 
are  "  lively  and  sought  after,"  yonr  eoartesy  may 
give  them  a  new  circnlatioHj  especially  as  they 
are  of  B  most  instructive  character. 

"thb  philobophfs  iiro  hbb  father. 

'"  A  Msad  (amc  booning  tbroagb  the  til — 

'  What  ia  tlttt  louad  ?  '  qoath  1. 
Mr  blnt^jed  pet,  vith  golden  hair, 

"tttda  uuwer,  preacDtly, 
'  Papa,  juu  knew  U  very  w«ll — 
That  ttuindi-^t  wu  Saint  Pancru  BelL' 
"'Hy  own  Loniw,  put  down  the  cat, 

AMi  come  and  atand  by  me  i 
I-m  e«d  to  hear  yon  talk  like  Uiat, 

Wbcn'a  ycRir  {ihUuBophy  ? 
That  aonad — attend  to  what  I  teU— 
That  aoond  was  w>t  aaiat  Pucrw  Bell. 
" '  Sound  ia  the  name  the  sage  sdeets 

For  tba  caadBdios  laim 
Of  ■  loiw  aeries  oT  eOteti, 

Ot « lileh  that  blow  'a  the  g«rm. 
The  foflowhig  brief  anatjiu 
Sbowa  the  intNTslatioaa,  BKia. 
■"Th«  blow  wUcb,  when  th*  dai^r  aHpf, 

Falfe  on  yew  fifiend  (he  BeD, 
Changes  its  circle  to  ellipae 

(A  word  you'd  better  >peU), 
And  then  eamea  ekitkfty, 
Besti^ns  what  it  used  to  be. 
" '  Nay,  loakhiE  it  a  little  more,    , 

The  elide  ahUts  about. 
As  mudi  as  It  riirunk  in  tMfoie 

The  Bell,  yon  we,  nrella  oat  -, 
And  aa  a  new  ellipee  b  made, 
(Too'ie  not  attending,  I'm  aftaid). 
" '  Thia  change  of  form  diatarba  the  air, 

Which  in  its  torn  behavea 
Jo  like  elaBtk  thahion  ther^ 

Creating  wares  on  waves  ; 
Whkh  prtaa  each  other  onward,  dear. 
Until  the  outHitist  finds  your  ear. 
"' Within  that  aai  tba  aaifeons  And 

A  tenpaaiHis  or  drum, 
Which  haa  a  little  bone  behind,— 

Malltai,  it's  called  by  some  : 
Bat  tluie  notprond  of  Latin  Gnunmar 
BnmUy  Craniate  it  as  tbe  hanuier. 


"Thswav 


IS  snvil,  which  it  bita). 


And  Ibis  trsDsfc 
To  tbe  imalt  oa  orblcainre, 
Tbe  tinlaat  bone  that  people  carry. 
"'The  •a^«Bext>-thvn.imo  recalls 

A  Btiiiup's  form,  my  ilaaghter — 
Joins  three  half-circniar  canals. 

Each  fill'dwllb  limpid  water  ;        .  ■ 

Their  carious  lining,  jonll  obsetTti  i(.)t50  |P 


Made  of  the  sudltoTy  aerve. 


NOTES  AND  QUEfilES. 


[l<kS.Vll.Ami.t9.7t. 


" '  Thii  vibrato  n«xt — ind  tben  m  And 

The  ajttie  work  is  eroira'd  ; 

For  theo  my  dinghlar'i  gratia  Hind 

Flnt  naaenuM  xmnd. 
See  wbit  a  host  of  ciiUM  losll 
To  nuka  Dp  nhal  }-on  call  "  the  B*\\."  ' 
"Anhiloihe  paosed.  m;  bright  Lontae, 
And  poader'd  on  the  case ) 
Then,  eettllns  that  he  meant  to  teua, 

She  ilapp'd  her  fathti'i  Tace. 
'Ton  bad  old  man,  to  sit  and  tell 
Such  gibbeiygoah  about  a  BcU  I ' " 

Shielbt  Bbooes. 


HESRY  VIII.  AND  THE  GOLDKS  FLEECE. 
(4"  S.  Til.  288.) 

To  Mb.  BniTKBT'a  inquiries  I  reply  that 
Hetiry  VIIL  WHS  duly  elected  a  Kaij^ht  of  the 
Order  of  the  Qolden  Fleece,  and  thnt  (so  far  na  I 
am  aitare)  there  is  no  Tepreeentation  of  him  with 
the  collar  or  insiipia  of  that  order.  The  circum- 
Btancee  connected  with  hia  election,  nod  his  reason 
for  abataiuiog  from  wearing  the  order,  will,  I 
hope,  be  found  sutGdentlj  interesting  to  merit  a 
place  in  "N.&Q." 

On  October  16, 1489,  Maiimilian  King  of  the 
Bomana  (nflerwarda  Emperor  of  Germenj)  wns 
elected  n  K.G.  in  the  sUsiti  of  Henrv  Percy,  fourth 
Earl  of  Northumberland,  slain  April  38  pre?ioualv. 
(Cotton  MS.  JuUus,  B.  12,  p.  55.)  On  Sept  12, 
1490,  a  commierion  woa  laaued  to  Sir  Charles 
Somerset  aJid  Sir  John  Wriotheslej,  Garter,  to 
inveat  Maximilian.  (Rymer.iii.  403')  Ilia  invea- 
titnre  took  place  at  Nurembei^  on  Chiistinnf  Day, 
1400,  when  the  book  of  statutes  was  delivered, 
and  the  oath  admini^iiered. 

This  investiture  formed  (in  1528)  the  subject 
of  one  of  Holbein's  very  rare  historical  pictures, 
executed  during  hia  stay  at  Sir  Thomas  More's  at 
Chelaea,  the  original  sketch  of  which,ai^ed  by 
the  artist,  ia  in  my  poasession ;  and  from  it  Wen- 
ceslaus  Hollar  mnde  his  engraTing,  to  be  found 
in  Asbmolc,  p.  406. 

Consequent  nprnMaximtlian's  proctor,  the  Mar- 
grave of  Bran  den  burfrh  (Ashmole,  p.  438),  not 
Eresentmg  himself  for  instnllntion  ana  to  oti'er  bis 
elm,  &c.,  wtlhiu  the  time  limited  bv  the  statutes, 
Mnximiiian's  recupiioa  into  the  orJer,  as  well  as 
(he  oath  taken  by  him,  became  void  and  of  no 
effect,  much  to  the  annoyance  of  Henry  VH. 

On  August  14,  1602,  upon  the  occasion  of  the 
ratification  of  the  treaty  of  alliance  between 
Ilen^  and  Maximilian,  tne  emperor  for  himself 
and  his  son  I'hilip  covenanted  to  accept  and 
wear  the  Gnrter  pabJMy,  the  King  of  hnj;Iand 


35,  36.)     Aecoidingly,  Sir  Thomas  Bmndi 

Dr.  West,  attended  by  Nottot  King  at  Arms,  were 

eommiaeioned  on  November  18  following  to  admit 


the  emperai  into  tbe  orita,  deliver  the  tampa, 
dedaM  tbe  statute*,  and  recnve  hia  oath  for  tbe 
obaervaiice  of  them.  The  emperor,  however,  de> 
clined  to  renew  die  oath,  but  jiromised  to  send  a 
proctor  oo  February  18  to  he  matalled  for  him  on 
St.  Oeotge's  Bay  next  ensuing.  (Cotton  US. 
Oalba,  B.  3.) 

On  Nov.  17, 1505,  «  Philippe  le  Bel "  held  the 
seventeenth  chapter  of  the  Golden  Fleece  at  Mid- 
delbourg  in  Flanders,  upon  which  occaaioa  ten 
knights  were  elected,  Hta  at  the  head  of  the  liat 
waa"Le  Prince  deOallea,"  afterwards  Henry  VIIL 
(De  Keiffeaberg,  Hidoire  de  tOrdte  de  la  Tmmm 
if  Or.) 

In  the  abeence  of  any  aatiafactory  proof  that 
Maximilian  or  Philip  wore  the  Order  of  the 
Garter  publicly,  it  may  fairly  he  oaaumed  they 
did  not;  and  auch  omiauon  may  be  accepted  as  a 
gond  reason  for  Henry's  declining  to  wesr  the 
Golden  Fleece,  and  satisfactorily  exp laina  why  no 
pictorial  repreaentatiun  eiiats  which  ahows  Maxi- 
milian with  the  Oarler  or  Uenry  with  the  Fleece. 
HenbtF.  Holt. 

King'a  Road,  CInpliam  Piik. 


REALM. 
(4*  S.  ui.  3.04,  413,  600;  v.  400;  vl.  00,  395.) 

Ms.  PiiTKB  now  aaeerts  that  such  forms  aa 
deiiax,  biar,  rie.r,  fox,  cannot,  as  I  cndeavonred 
to  show  in  my  last  note  (vi.  00),  be  iatermidiaie 
forna  between  the  older  forma  cAevalx,  bialx, 
vtet.i;  fotx,  and  the  forms  now  in  use,  cAemur, 
btaax,*  vieux,  fntit ;  but  that  the  forma  in  or,  ej:, 
or  belong  to  one  dialect  (that  of  the  "  authors  of 
the  French  of  Paris"),  and  thoee  in  anx,  «u,  okx 
to  another,  vit.  the  French  of  Normandy  and 
I^cardy;  and  that,  therefore,  I  have  been  guilty 
of  confounding  distinct  dialect*  together.  I  have 
hut  little  difficulty  in  meeting  this  ofajectfdn  of 
Wh.  Patkbs. 

In  the  tirst  place  let  liim  ccmsult  Arop^  1^*^* 
dt  In  formation  de  la  iimg.  frmu;.,  Snd  ed.,  Paiia, 
lSe9,p. 371),  where  he  will  find  it  stMed  that  the 
forms  m  au»,  etu  originally  belonged  to  the  Parisian 
dialect,t  whilst  those  in  ax  and  e.r  primitively  be- 
longed to  Picardy,  and  were  thence  transferred  to 
Paris.   In  Other  worda,  that  the  .r  and  u  forma  (see 


•  Formerly  also  bianx.  For  the  aako  of  brevirj-,  I 
■hnll  rait  tlio  fbrma  in  at,  ex,  ox,  ibe  x  fum» ;  Ihue  ia 
aux,  iMx.  OKI,  tiie  a  forms:  ivhil«t  tbe  forms  in  ah,  dt, 
nil,  in  whii:h  the  original  Idlin  I  is  preserved,  and  from 
wliieh  both  the  x  and  ■  rorm*  are  drrivcil.  I  Hill  call  tlie 
/  Ibrmi.  It  muFt  be  remembered  that  Saul  i  ia  in  old 
Frencb.  both  in  the  ninKulnr  and  pluml,  ver}'  frequently 

t  InAmp^rr.  Bnrgnndian  dialect)  but  (Ui'rf.  n.  360) 
we  aie  told  thnt  undFr  Baripindltn  ia  Included  the  Frenelt 
spoken  on  the  banki  of  the  Loire,  and  in  the  Ile-de- 
France— Ihj  ■■---- 


4*8.TII.  AMm-M,'-!.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIEa 


871 


not«*)  heth  of  tAtia  occur  in  the  "  French  of  Paris, 
which  la  prMuely  the  view  I  hold;  wliilit  tiie 
obviotu  GorollRTj  to  Mb.  Painb's  present  poaitiou 
is,  tbftt  the  twa  aets  of  (orms  ore  never  lound  ia 
the  sBine  dialect.  So  also  Diez  (Oramm.  d.  roman. 
SpraAen,  2tid  ed.,  1860),  who  saya  (i.  122}  iLat 
the  UnguBge  of  the  Ile-de-Fraace  lies  between 
the  three  principal  dialects  (Buraundian,  I'icard, 
and  Nominu),  and  la  imxed  up  uitA  them. 

Again,  if  Mb.  Patns  will  only  take  the  trouble 
to  euHnine  the  Boinan  dt  Sou  and  the  Itoman  de 
Stvt,  by  Wace,t  and  his  own  favourite  edition 
(by  Michel)  of  the  Soman  de  la  Rote,  or  even  to 
conanlt  mv  last  note  (vi.  96),  he  will  ray  apeedilj 
discover  Uiat  the  -r.fonne  are  verj  common  in  the 
Noroan  dialect,  aod  the  u  forme  rare;  whilst  in 
the  "French  of  Paria"  the  u  forms  ore  much  the 
more  common,  and  the  z  forma  mora  tara — facts 
which  Kn  in  direct  coutrediction  to  his  aasertiona. 
In  each  dialect,  too,  hath  farmt  are  used — which 
is  again  in  opposition  to  Mr.  Patnb-S 

I  have  examined  a  great  man;  other  books,  snd 
excenting  in  the  oldest,  where  scarcolj  anj  but 
the  }  forms  are  met  with,  I  have  atwaya  found 
both  the  X  and  u  forms,  the  x  forms  predominat- 
ing in  the  older  books.  But  even  in  the  oldest 
books  of  all  the  dialects  I  find  tho  x  forms  a» 
(  ^  (oix),  H,  and  de».  As  far  as  I  can  sue,  at  seems 
to  have  come  into  use  as  cnrlj  as  the  eleventh 
century  (see  a  vetsion  of  the  Psalms  of  thitt  cen- 
tury edited  by  Fr.  Michel,  Oxford,  1860),  and  to 
have  been  used  txtiativ^  until  it  was  eupenwded 
by  the  more  modam  forms  tm»  and  mtr.  If  tliis 
is  so,  will  Mr.  Paimb  explain  how  au*  and  aux 
can  have  been  formed,  if  not  by  the  change  of  the 

My  theory  finds  great  support  also  in  the  words 
4paim,  taiile,  ganle  (pole,  sivitch),  and  I  think 
also  ID  Qmile  (Gaul),  la  the  first  three  words  the 
/  of  the  ^)0t  has  been  retained,  and  yet  the  a  has 
become  oh— and  this  au,  being  constantly  found 
in  the  oldest  writers,  hns  evidently  not  been  in- 
serted by  Mb.  Paimb's  grammarians.  See  Diez, 
(^.  cit^  p.  103.  II     Biei  himself  virtually  alloma 

X  Un.  Pavnb  taay  olijeut  thst  \Vac«  vsg  ddIj  an 
Anglo-yormon ;  but,  m  be  was  bom  ia  Jenev,  edaoted 
at  C*en,  and  Mems  to  have  passed  (be  (treatcr  part  ot  b!s 
life  ia  Narmiodv,  bii  NDrmin-Fceneh  muet  btve  brtn 
parp,  and,  indeed,  Ampen  fr««ly  quotes  rmm  bim,  snd 
speaks  of  biswatki  as  texts  "dont  I'origine  Sormande 
n'en  pas  donteuse." 

The  aatbors  of  tbe  Amaa  dt  la  Rnii  both  11  red  on  the 
banks  or  tbe  Loirr,  and  their  langnoge  belongs  to  the 
Bargnndian  dialect,  which  is  dsinsd  bv  Ampere  (aad 
Fallot)  wilb  tha  "Freneh  of  Paris."    3ee'  note  \. 

S  I  sometime!  fiad  tha  x  and  ■  fbmu  in  the  ssme  line. 
Hios,  in  the  Soman  de  la  Roie,  I.  5SiH,  tbere  ia  "Certes, 
bisiisamls,roies  tn";  and  so  frequently  in  the  Ahwh 
ifii  Keaart  (ed.  H^n.  Pari),  1826),  e.  g.  Siaa  Iri,  dot, 
II.  4M«,  7S78  I  biax  donx,  I.  2872 ;  with  which  oompare 
biax  dn,  1 1427. 

I  Diss  nyt  that  •aula  and  gaiA  (awllcb)  com*  from 


my  theory  to  fae  possible ;  for  he  states  in  tbe 
pSMOse  iusl  quoted  (note  *)  that,  in  the  Burgun- 
dlan  oifJect,  aul  not  inftequently  oomea  from  ai, 
and  he  quotes  as  examples  vaulo  (valet),  mauiai- 
droi  (maladroit).  Dut,  if  in  the  Burgundian  dia- 
lect, why  not  in  the  other  dialects  of  France? 
Besides  which  it  is,  according  to  Amp6ra  and 
Fallot  (see  note  t),  precisely  from  the  Burgun- 
dian dialect  that  uio  Frendi  of  modom  limes  has 
sprung. 

Mb.  Patks  asks  vhj  »,  and  not  any  other 
Towel,  should  have  come  in  befora  I  in  French  ?  I 
can  only  say  that  tbe  addition  of  »  before  I,  whe- 
ther the  I  ^ps  or  not,  is  not  peculiar  to  fVeocb. 
Let  him  examine  the  English  words  talt,  malt, 
falie,  hall ;  and  the  Scotch  a'  (  -  all),  fa'  (  -  fall), 
faat  (  =  fault),  tant  (  =  salt)  \\  and  the  Northum- 
Driao  atvtnaik  (  =  almost),  quoted  by  Diez,  toe.  cil. 
So  again,  in  oar/alcoa,  bnlk,  catk  (  •■caulk),  chalk, 
talk,  walk,  the  I  has  virtually  dropped,  and  the  a 
is  pronounced  au. 

In  conclusion,  I  will  just  notice  Mit.  Pathi's 
attempt  to  turn  me  into  ridicule,  because  forsooth 
I  assumed  the  old  French  form  of  the  Lat.  didcia 
to  be  d'llg;  and  Ms.  Paikb,  relying  no  doubt 
upon  Scheler,  chooses  to  assert  dogmatically  tbat 
it  is  doll,  and  doU  only.  Scheler  aod  Mb.  pATKit 
are  both  wrong;  for  doti  and  dul*  both  occur,  and 
dolt  is  older  than  dal>.  See  a  version  of  tbe 
Psalms  of  the  eleventh  cmtury,  edited  by  Pr. 
Michel  (Oxford,  1800),  Psalms  xviii.  11,  xxiv.  Q; 
andlheCA<T>tJonf/eJ7uf<iiirf(ed.GiJnin,  Paris,  1360), 
Chant  1.,  11. 109,  300,  572;  Chant  ii.,  11.  42,  40, 
Sfti,  &c.  &c.  Nor  is  Mr.  Painb  more  fortunate 
in  asserting  that  dolt  "was  at  once  superseded  by 
tJDtif,"  for  I  have  man^  times  met  with  what  I 
regiu^  as  the  intermediate  form,**  viz.  dia,  e.  g. 
in  the  Eomim  du  Jlenait,  U.  760,  1048,  1050, 1170, 


laluha  and  ca/w,  and  if  so   tbe  a   toast  have  becama 

AaU/Gault. Diei  says  tha Bnt  I  ^Gallia  became  ■>,  whilst 
tbe  second  remsine.  I  prefer  to  thlsk  that  the  first  / 
dropped,  wUicb  would  cive  us  Oalt,  and  that  then  tbe  a 
became  aa,  ai  in  saafa  and  QKiib  (svitch).  I  flad  Oo'a^ 
Galla  (n'alcs),  frum  the  same  root  as  GuMia.  in  tba 
itnnan  dt  Bna,  11. 1314, 1315, 1317 ;  and  it  is  wall  known 
thnt  in  old  French  one  of  two  Latin  Ti  is  comDioaly 
drunped,  as  In  Mi,  n*U.folt-Mle,iadli,folU. 

H  The  I  does  not  always  drop  in  Bcotch  when  the  g 
becomes  am.  'I'hns,  ws  find  Bull/  (-old),  wa/d  (.cdd), 
wajild  (power);  and  these  wonts  are  also  written  aid, 
cald,  H-ald,  though  doubtleaa  even  then  the  a  fa  pro- 
nounce] an.    Sec  Jamieson'a  Scollith  EtgnuJogical  Did. 

"  One  rason  that  the  inlermedlite  formg  da  not 
■IwBfB  occar  i\  no  doubt,  tbat  tbe  final  li  was,  even 
when  written,  nitimittely  not  piononncal,  as  Ha.  Patxk 
himself  aliows.  Ihh  and  biaU  would,  therefote,  bs  pm- 
nouDced  preclselv  in  the  same  way  aa  doz  and  bmr,  nod 
hence  the  forms  iloz,  biax,  though  osefnl  as  ahowiog  that 
the  I  waa  not  pronounced,  were  not  sbaolntalr  necessary ; 
snd  hence  aach  Intermediate  forms  were  freqaeatlj  dis- 
pensed with,  and  tlie  I  forms  sssm  to  pais  mncUy  into   i 


s?a 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[«<*&.VII.  Aprh.3»,T1. 


1197,  fte.  (see  note  {) ;  and  he  caimot  n^  (Ms 
foRB  Monge  to  •  diSemat  <lial«et,  m  in  t^  nme 
book,  n.  3679,  7963,  &e  iriU  dso  find  Oo  fonn 
Amx.  Mb.  Fatitb  irill  do  wdl,  therefore,  to  be 
mora'  aeenmte  and  lesa  poeitire  in  future. 

F,  CHAn«x. 


CAPEICIOm  WEAT. 
(4*  S.  Tii.  256.) 
W.  D.  K  win  Qnd  this  sosnat  in  Dod«Ie;'s  Con- 
fection ^  Poena,  voL  ii.  p.  321,  ed.  London,  1776, 
-witii   tne   title,   "A  Stumet   Imitated  from  the 
Spftoiah  of  Lopez  de  Yega.    IdeDAgiana,  t«m.  Ix. 

&176.    By  the  same."    W.  D.  B.  will  see  that 
I  memory — and  no  wonder  after  fifty  years — 
h«a  not  retained  the  tines  quite  accurately : — 
"  Guiiidotu  W.*  flic]  a  aooiut  nnda  moat  hme ; 

I  ne'er  «u  ki  put  to 't  before ; — a  Sonnet  1 

Why  foaitMD  veraeg  miut  be  went  noon  tt ; 
^)  Kood  howe'er  t'  have  conqnerU  tba  Bfst  itoTG; 
Ttt  I  iiiiU  ne'er  Bad  rfaTOiet  aiMiigti  ^  tutf, 

&id  1,  and  round  o^adfl'  VU  midet  e' the  mmiiL 

If  twice  fbni  t«ism  were  bnt  Adiiy  reckon'd 
I  ihoold  torn  bwk  on  lli'baideat  put  indUni^. 

•Oaa  Or  with  good  loarea  I  thmk  I've  MribUsd. 

And  of  the  twice  eeTeo  linn  bare  dnui  got  o'ei  ten, 
Conngel  anedm^  finiA  the  Ant  trivet 

^luka  to  tbe^  Hoae,  mr  vsik  bwin  ta  ibertan. 
Tbare'i  thirteen  Una*  sot  lliroagb  driblet  by  ddblet. 

Ill  dons!  ooont  fiow  jon  will,  I  wiir'nt  there's 
ftmrteen." 
In  the  EUgaat  Extnutt,  edited  by  Vieaaimita 
Knox  [Vmk^  B.  IV.  p.  808,  ed.  London,  17M]  the 
fiiat  line  iagiveiithus: — 

"Capdchm  ^rayaaanoet  nasda  mut  har^"  ie. 
sad  the  anthorahtp  is  asogncd  to  "Edwards," 
meamnf  no  donbt  Thomas  Edwards,  of  Turrick 
in  Dnctanghamahtra,  anthor  of  the  Canont  of  CH- 
Ueitm.  and  of  whom  there  is  a  biographical  notice 
hy  Hichole  in  Iris  CoUeetion  of  J^iemi,  yoL  tL 
pp.  103^  ed.  London,  1780.  But  there  is  a 
UtUa  doubt  in  the  matter  of  authorship,  which  I 
aiuwU  like  to  Bee  self  ad.  Knm  awignn  thn  (innnot 
to  Edwards,  probably  eomctJj,  but  Nichols  s^a 
of  £dwsida,  "  tkirlmit  of  his  sonnets  are  pnntcd 
in  Dodslaj's  CoSaction^'  and  in  that  collection 
we  find  "Sonnets  by  T.  E."  thirteen  in  number 
[toL  iL  pp.  322-334],  bnt  iheyfoUow  the  sonnet 
above  quoted,  sot  precede  it  It  would  seem  then 
that  Nichols,  though  well  acquainted  with  what 
Edwards  had  written,  and  with  Dodsley's  Colkc- 
t«M  eqjMciallj,  d'ld  not  know  this  aonnet  as  his. 
The  words  in  Dodsley's  title,  "  By  the  same," 
whidi  TiRuely  point  to  an  anthm*,  when  traced 
hac^  land  us  either  at  the  name  of  a  "  Mr. 
Roderick"  [voL  ii.  n.  509],  ot  at  a  poem  on  "  The 

Female  Bight  to  Uterature,  by "  i.  e.  some 

one  aaoaymous  [toL  iL  p.  294.]    Perhaps  a  roFer- 
ence,  which  I  have  no  present  means  of  vwkiag, 


to  The  Gmoim  o^CWfcctm,  in  which  Nichols  ans 
there  are  twenty^eervn  othier  MrDoeta  of  Edwar^ 
<n  to  Peenh'a  QiOecti^ii,  in  which  he  bkjb  titers 
an  eight  mote,  may  Iwlp  to  solve  the  qnestiiH. 

'Who  "UnpridousWR^"  was,  I  cannot  tall; 
but  it  mfty  hftTebeen  "  BHnal  Wray,"  the  arehe- 
ologistj  who  WW  ^vittg  at  tiie  lime  &a  sonast 
was  wriiten,  and  of  wh<nft  George  Hariinge  pih- 
lished  Biogit^Mtmt  Jaieedaia,  London,  1818,  8to> 
with  a  poTtn»t.  We  Lowndes'  SM.  Mm.,  lol. ». 
p.  8000. 


S.A.D. 


This  waa  Daniel  Wray,  Dapn^-teQer  of  the  Ex- 
chettuer  from  1746  to  17SS,  ^  intiinate  Cnead  ot 
mmy  ot  the  Kteraiy  criebritie*  of  hia  day.  Then 
is  aloDg  md  interesting  memoir  of  biai  by  his 
fiioid  Mr.  Joetice  Hardinge,  in  Nidiota's  IUiuItv 
tiim*i!fLitm'arySidmy,YtA.  i.,  and  siHne  secottnt 
<rf  him  may  be  fcnnd  in  the  hio^^shical  dictioD- 
aries.  The  aonnat  is  by  Riofaard  Roderick,  Fellow 
of  Magdalene  CoUeg«,  Cambrian,  who  died  in 
1760,  It  is  given  is  Nichols's  mutrtOiima,  i.  18, 
and  in  Dodsley's  CMection,  ii.  33^  1782.  It  is 
stated  to  be  an  iiaitadoo  fWnn  the  Spmish  of 
Lopw  de  Vega.  H.  P.  D. 

MOUSr  CALTAKT. 
(4»'  S.  vL  543 ;  vii.  ^,  lOSy  215.) 

Not  only  "because  the  historian  Sozoraea  tdb 
H8  that  the  enemies  of  Ae  Chiistitn  name  walM 
in  the  holy  sepnlchre  and  th«  place  of  Calvary, 
JEc,"  do  I  "  £smiss  all  this  coptone  testunixiy  <£ 
St.  Cyril  as  valnelea^"  bnt  from  a  more  cogent 
reason  still,  which  is,  that  1  entortwn  very  grave 
doubts  indeed  of  St  Cyril's  ^ving  anjr  such  tes- 
timony at  all.  The  wotds  tehed  upon  in  support 
of  this  position  are,  ArtponirT^i,  ^irifMm,  and 
•J  rtrpoi — rendered  respectively,  euperemmmt,  crm- 
tpienaut,  and  raeht,  of  which  Isat  there  can  be  no 
difTerence  of  opinion. 

Now  admitting,  for  the  sake  of  arKnment,  that 
MfwremMoi^  is  the  tme  eqaivaleot  tn  bnfmrivtmt, 
is  that  word  ngnifieant  of  nothing  but  height  in 
the  sense  of  measurement  byfoet,  yards,  or  mileaf 
Is  U  hnrdly  ever  used  in  this  sense  P  Do  we  speak 
of  a  tall  m«n,  a  high  mountain,  a  kfty  towet,  aa  * 
m^traninaU  man,  a  tttpwrnmient  mouttara,  a 
sKpernnmsnt  tower  F  I  think  not  And  when  we 
do  append  this  participle  to  either  of  these  noons, 
I  fimcythe  qualifying  notion  conveyed,  and  almost 
nnivenally  accepted,  would  be  that  of  exaHenet, 

X-iority,  in  point  of  BOmething  or  other,  over 
r  individn^s  of  the  Mune  class.  I  believe  this 
to  be  equallj  true  of  the  Creek  equivalent.  Of 
iwtptttlinaiiai,  Scapola  gives,  as  renderings, jir<9j^ 
mipeTQ,  exceUo,  valde  amUedio,  sod  as  exainpla  in 
support  of  these  meanings,  Greg.  HyiMu  irimr 
t-rrfutmr  iwtftrtmiKoi — a  dogma  idl  Other  dog- 


i"  8.  VIL  Arml.  39,  71,] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIE6. 


373 


mate  excelling.  Hediiclt,  and  liddell  asd  Sooti 
give  umilar  renderiDgs — the  latter,  u  example,  a 
quotation  from  FhiSwtntaa,  rh  *4i  yviiiiii  frmp- 
' ,  inUUeetaal  exoellenoe   or  auperiorit^. 


Ifl  it  not  poBBible  thM,  is  it  not  yeir  1 

"      '  'n  kee^ug  -mtli  tlie  whoU  gist  of  tbe 


pawage,  tfaat  ttia  abould  be  the  meaning  iotended 
tre  St.  Cyril  ?  For  After  describing  Oolgoth*  aa 
oirn  i  S7U1,  would  it  not  have  been  flat,  and 
tame,  and  jejune  to  speak  o{  iU  TuayhifTather  than 
of  the  pre-eminence  attaching  to  it  from  the  won- 
derful and  all-impodng  scena  of  vhicli  it  had 
been  tie  theatre  F  And  u  this  is  the  common, 
the  most  generally  received  meiuiing  of  the  word 
he  uses,  may  we  not  fiurly  conclude  that  he  does 
flo  use  it,  and  understand  him  as  Bpeaking  of 
Calvary,  not  as  a  mountain — the  term  baving  no 
such  eiclusiva  reference— but  u  a  localitj  eacred 
ilhore  &I1  others,  and  of  aurpaasing  dignhy,  on 
account  of  the  ^:rand,  and  solemn,  and  mcmentona 
transaction  which  had  been  there  consummated  f 

That  ^ii-i/iivat  should  be  rendered  cotttpieumu, 
I  do  not  complain ;  hut  of  the  inference  drawn 
from  it,  I  rfu.  Beoinae  a  tiling  is  caupicmnu,  it 
doee  Dot  foUmr  that  it  ia  elevated  in  the  aenae  «f 
height.  Tht  sea  ia  emapicaoa*,  and  I  look  upon  it, 
at  this  moment,  from  the  room  in  whick  I  am 
writing,  not  becaise  the  aeK  is  higher  t3wm  this 
room,  bnt  beoanae  1^  room  is  bi^er  than  tfaa 
wa.  But  ^wu^Hit— for  it  ia  Inttet  to  beep  to  the 
original — is  a  t«rm  of  wide  esteiit  It  ia  expeee- 
Mve  of  anything  that  may  'be  asm,  and,  loela- 
phorically,  of  anything  that  is  remarkabU.  Ik 
tJite  latter  sense  the  Oreeha  often  used  it,  end  we 
perfa^a  more  oft«i  ao.  Of  Oalwny,  -Aerefoi*, 
whether  nromvbnn  or  Talley,  if  ita  tzoe  site  were 
known  and  tixAA  be  seen,  ^av^iow  miate  joaiUy 
ba  dedicated  of  it  And  that  it  m  pcetfioated  of 
it  pves  Ti<>t  a  wWt  stronger  aopport  to  Uie  belief 
of  its  )>eing  a  mountain,  than  to  the  o^oaite  o»e 
of  its  being  a  plain. 

I  conaider  "  cmupicaou^y  teeliflea  "  astoo  atwrng 
a  nn^riog  for  imfrifu  fam^Hm,  md  aeazeely 
bome  out  by  the  Oreek. 

As  to  olWrpai,!  do  not  seeits  beadag  npen  the 
a^oment.  Bocks  exist  ^art  from  aaonntaiBS — 
OH  the  Nu£aM  and  below  it.  Heaee  &b  rendiq; 
of  the  rocks,  and  thwr  after  Hot  appaaranoe,  as 
mentioiied  by  SL  Cyril,  is,  to  mymiiid,  qnite 
beside  &e  queEiion.  That "  the  varjr  atone  «f  Uie 
Mfpolchre  waa  still  l^g  there^"  is  even  more  so ; 
as  '^ia,  if  addaeed  m  proof  of  aaytiiiBg,  mnet  be 
of  oar  Lord's  bnrial,  as  it  «ould  aH  nothing  t 
tfaa  erifcnce  of  O^rary  being  a  mountain. 


Ia  cowdndiaig,  I  wcmld  repeat  whatl  said  in  my 
fmmer  lAart  paaer,  that  I  am  eompetMt  to  give 
no  (^iinon  on  tlie  qiiaalMn  itself,  nor  have  1  any 
Mas  aitber  way.  I  hare  oidy  efokat  to  t&e  evi- 
dence brought  foiwwd,  and  <^  this  I  sae  no  rsaMS 
to  aher  my  view,  that  it  fijie  diort  of 


dte  fact  wliioh  ia  baaed  upon  it.  I  tlunk  we  hava 
nothing  to  do  with  what  3L  Cyril  was  as  a  man, 
or  his  residence  at  Jemsalam,  01  bis  catechising 
on  the  verr  spot  in  qnestian.  All  that  we  have 
to  do  with  IB,  what  he  lOffi,  and  to  decide  upon  '% 
as  matter  of  evidence,  whether  it  be  suffideat  to 
eetablish  the  fact  of  Colvary'a  being  a  mouatain, 
or  whether  it  be  not.  Some  may  ouiclude  itia; 
others  with  myself,  may  jud^  it  not  to  be  so. 
We  may  agree  to  difier;  anddifiering,  he  friendly 
none  the  l^s. 

I  thank  Mb.  M'OsieoxIfbr  his  kindly  notice  of 
my  former  remarka.  I  thought  he  would  not  take 
it  amiss  to  be  set  right  as  to  the  qaetatian  from 
Sosomen.  We  are  all  liable  to  suck  inaccuracies, 
and  for  myaelf  I  have  neaily  always  found  that  in 
quoting  at  aecond  hand  I  have  become  the  uneon- 


P.S. — I  have  ooHraUed  a  near  ocaghkeur,  as 
anmaent  Greek  ariiolar,  on  the  paaaage  from  St. 
Cyril ;  and  he  says,  "  out  of  ^nic^  fitde  afaoot 
tbe  '  Jlonnt '  aan  be  gathered." 

LOBD  CAMFBELL'S  "UFE  OF  LOBD  LYND- 

HUBST  ■• : 
TBB  SlILWAT  MMinXKn  OOMPBVaiTIOn  BUX. 


(i"  8.  VH.  280.) 

caee  tried  before  Land 

proceeded 

turned  round  to  the 


I  was  oooe  flaintifl'  in  «  ci 
Campbell,  and  tke  beerii^ 
TOry  far  when  "my  Laid"  t 
jur^,  and  made  some  remarks  damanag  to  mj 
dmm.  i  did  not  get  a  verdict,  but  I  waa  con- 
soled by  the  assurance  of  tbese  sboot  me  that 
ibo  defendant  would  novel  be  aUa  to  hold  Us 
verdict  Such  proved  to  be  true,  I  obtained  a 
new  trial  immediately,  and  idtimately  my  cauae. 
The  fatnra  Ui^tapber  ef  dii>  okane^hv  will  be 
able  to  ind  pl<m^  oflike  oaaas  ilhistaaliva  of  his 
antioipalioB  of  the  cases  befwe  blm. 

So  muck  fix  hia  diataeter  asajnd^  Lou> 
Ltttmlxov  baa  deacrifaed  him  as  a  biognt^tn; 
and  now  a  few  weade  apom  him  as  a  legwUtot. 
I  believe  Aat  his  Bill  for  compensatiug  railway 
aoddemta  baa  been  the  aouice  of  more  frand^ 
fijaehood^  and  legal  chicanery  than  Bay  oiker 
enactuMMt  that  was  ever  passed.  By  A»  hat 
B^hort  of  the  Brif^ten  Railway,  it  ^ifieats  tiiat 
the  New  Cross  accident  cost  74,01W.,  and  there 
was  not  a  singie  pereon  killed.  The  ^am^aay 
have  since  convicted  one  woman  who  ebtaued 
oompenaatian ;  and  the;  have  attempted  to  get 
haA  the  amoant  of  compeniation  and  costs,  but 
"  no  money  ratoned  "  is  liie  motto  of  "  tfae  noo- 
onraUe  pmfwsiai." 

-How  many  eaaea  of  lite  same  character  then 
ware  of  whioi  tba  company  had  as^cion,  Iwt 
whidt  thej  could  not  Ining  to  justioe,  I  oaontd  1 
say,  bat  I  am  quite  anre  that  if  Lokd  Lttiklto  I ' 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


ti»S.TIl.Apwi.29.71. 


would  take  the  trouble  to  inquire  of  the  aeTeral 
companiu  they  would  give  liim  such  facts  es 
would  soon  make  liim  cease  to  regret  that  his 
"little  embrjo  pet  Inmb  "  was  taken  from  him, 
Mid,  I  will  even  venture  to  nav,  make  him  blush 
for  the  part  he  took  in  originating'  iL 

For  the  Bcddent  that  occurred  at  Ascot  some 
few  jeara  ago  the  South  Western  Company  paid 
over  6O,00CU:  There  were  SOO  petsoni  in  the 
train,  and  they  compensated  600.  The  reason 
given  for  this  was  that  the  company  knew  from 
experience  that  the  noble  institution,  the  British 
jury,  would  never  give  a  verdict  in  favour  of  the 
compaoy.    Fine  work  this  for  the  tawvers. 

There  was  a  man  who  lived  at  Worthing  prose- 
cuted some  time  ago,  and  it  was  shown  that  he 
made  a  business  of  getting  compensation  when- 
ever an  accident  occurred.  I  have  no  doubt  there 
are  many  "  hlack  sheep  "  now  who  are  working  the 
"  pet  ewe  lamb  "  to  get  money  out  of  the  London 
and  North  Western  Company  for  clients  who  never 
were  near  Hanow  when  the  accident  occurred. 

I  hope  and  believe  that  IjObd  LTXTELron'B 
memory  will  be  respected  and  revered  for  his  cha* 
racter  and  abilities,  and  he  need  not  envy  the 
fame  of  one  who  was  ao  partial  a  judge,  and  so 
unscmpulonB  a  bi(»rapher,  for  canyiog  a  Bill 
fraught  ^th  so  much  wrong. 

If  Loan  LmELTON  wishes  for  immortslity^in 
connection  with  this  measure,  let  him  introduce  a 
KU  to  amend  it  in  such  a  way  as,  without  reliev- 
ing railways  of  their  liabilitiea  in  case  of  n^lect, 
wUl  prevent  poor  ehareholdeis  being  robb^  by 
the  lushouest.  The  ancestor  of  bis  Loidship 
threw  some  light  on  the  law :   let  his  Lordship 


Uezzotutt  of  Oliybb  Croicwbll,  onob  tbb 
Pbofbbtt  07  Bbiiwhaw  the  Uxsicidx  (4'^  S. 


friend  of  mine,  on  account  of  the  notice  of  a 
curious  print  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  I  possess  a 
umilar  print,  or  rather  meziotint,  which  has  a 
Ter^  valuable  bistorv  attached  to  it  This  mez- 
toUnt  belonged  to  Bradshaw  the  regidde,  who 
possessed  Brsdshaw  Hall,  near  Bolton-le-Moors, 
and  has  never  been  but  tn  two  houses,  that  of 
Bradshaw  Hall  and  my  own.     My  mezzotint  was 

Sorchased,  alono;  with  some  other  matters,  by  the 
ite  James  Hardcnstle,  who  for  some  years  resided 
at  Bndshaw  Hall,  and  be  pave  it  to  my  father. 
The  print  in  my  possesion  is  considered  the  best 
—  -[amen  of  mezzotint  engraving  known,  and  is 
most  beautiful  work  ofeit  of  that  kind  I  evei 
aw,  possessing  now  a  freshness  and  depth  com- 
bined with  a  softness  of  toning  of  the  shadows,  as 
ifit  had  just  issued  from  a  publisher'B  hands.  It 
di£en  in  nothing  from  the  one  described  by  Mb. 


r 


Lbnihak,  and  is  well  known  by  antiquftries  and 
others  as  a  perfect  gem  of  its  kind. 

I  never  heard  of  another  nmilar  one,  but  am 
informed,  on  reliable  authority,  that  there  is  also 
a  copy  of  this  print  engraved  by  Charles  Turner, 
bat  I  have  not  seen  any  of  these. 

L.  G.  Stabkib,  Lt-CoL  Q,L.Il.V. 

Hnntroyal,  BumtBy,  Lancashire. 

"Asoii.  CaRiSTi"  (4**  8.  vii.  822.)— This 
prayer  is  generally  supposed  to  have  been  com- 
posed by  St  Ignatius  of  Lovola.  It  has  always 
been  a  fsvourite  with  his  society,  and  finds  a  place 
in  all  their  books  of  devotion;  which  would  not 

ecobably  have  been  the  case  bad  it  been  written 
y  St  Thomas  of  Aquin ;  for  the  Jesuits  have 
never  been  found  to  prefer  tbe  compositions  of 
the  Dominicans.  In  that  well-known  prayer- 
book^  the  C(rfc<to  Palmetum,  it  is  called  "  Brevis 
et  ptft  Oratio  S,  Ignatii " ;  but  in  the  Parvuni 
Calede  Palmelum,  of  which  I  have  the  edition  of 
1764,  tbe  "Anima  Christ)  "  is  introduced  as  only 
"S.  P.  Ignatio  olim  familiaris."  F.  C.  B. 

Thk  Schooluaster  adboas  iit  Stafpobd- 
BHIBB  (4"  9.  vii.  121, 180,  811.)— To  saj;  •'  The 
Lye  Waste  b  a  oommon,"  gives  rather  an  inexact 
impression.  It  avis  a  common,  a  waste  of  the 
manor  of  tbe  Foley  family,  as  the  name  still  im- 
plies, hut  that  was  a  great  many  years  ago.  There 
IS  baldly  any  common  or  waste  there  now,  as  it 
is  all  covered  with  buildings,  [uta,  and  works  of 
all  sorts,  much  of  it  freehold  acquired  as  Fvrz.- 
HOPKnrs  states. 

Tbe  place  had  bepin  (o  improve  even  at  tbe 
date  be  mentions.  The  improvement  is  almost 
wholly  due  to  an  excellent  gentleman  named  Hill, 
who  many  years  ago  built  and  unctoecd  a  church, 
parsonsge,  and  schools  there.  It  had  long  been 
singulariy  happy  in  the  character  of  the  incum- 
bents of  the  church,  two  of  whom  were  Afr.  Hill's 
own  sons.  Ltttkltoit. 

Baglej,  Stooibridge. 

Elix^eb,  I  humbly  opiue,  is  wrong  bolb  in  date 
and  locality,  in  afEnn^  the  blooding  of  the"poop'' 
to  bis  Lancashire  neighbours.    I  heard  the  fact 

Ei«n  ago,  fatbered  on  Uie  Black-country,  from  the 
ps  of  a  distinguished  R.A.,  and  almost  iptimimit 
vei-bii.  Furthermore^  I  have  been  credibly  in- 
formed by  a  leading  ironmaster  of  that  district  of 
Cimmerian  gloom,  that  such  is  the  hold  which 
"the  dawg"has  taken  upon  the  native  mind  in 
and  around  Bilston,  that  on  one  occodon,  when  a 
{utman's  wife  had  loet  her  child,  she  volnntirily 
adopted  her  husband's  (or  neighbour'a)  bull-pun 
bereft  of  maternal  solicitude,  and  actually  herself 
suckled  the  interesting  creatiire  until  it  waa  anfli- 
cientiy  advanced  in  life  to  mvntain  ill  own  rights 
and  consequence,  and  in  a  &ir  vmy  to  prove  by 
its  prowess  the  illustriousnesa  of  its  deeceat  and 
the  unomially  tender  care  bestowed  on  its  mature 


i<k  S.  Tit.  Apbu.  29,  *; 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


and  eulf  education.    I  can  hear  more  than  one 

of  your  raaden«xclum,  "Ciedat  Judteus  Apellsl" 

UooKLAHD  Lad. 

Th«  Odb  of  Abtetdb  Gsbt  (4«^  3,  \ii.  207.)— 

The  chief  point  of  cruelty  in  Ladj  M.  W.  Mon- 

au's  authonhip  of  the  nbove  lay  perhaps  in  her 
jahlp'B  intimate  knowledge  of  the  hard  fat« 
of  Mn.  (afterwards  Lady)  Murray.  Both  ladies 
bad  frequented  verj  much  the  same  circles  of 
societj.  The  beada  of  their  families  held  office  in 
tbe  same  department  in  the  earliest  adnunistrations 
of  Ueorre  I. 

'iln.  Murray's  huaband  used  to  introduce  her  to 
partners  mt  a  ball,  and  then  threaten  to  kill  her  for 
aancing  with  them.  At  last  it  became  absolutely 
necessary,  from  bis  unceoaonabie  conduct,  for  his 
irifa  to  return  lo  her  father's  house,  tt  was  under 
theae  circumstances  that  the  rascally  valet  as- 
saulted her,  and  that  Lady  Mary  wrote  her  Sggra- 
Tating  ode,  if  not  the  coarse  street  ballad  also. 

In  the  ode  she  professea  to  gire,  as  the  result 
of  the  footman's  observBtion  of  his  mistresa's  Ufe, 
n  series  of  coarse  amours.  Lady  Mary  describes 
her  friend  aa  ringing  in  the  moraiog  for  the  foot- 
man to  bring  her  tea  into  her  bedroom.  These 
might  be  the  fashion?  her  ladyship  was  accus- 
tomed to  witneas  amon^  her  acquaintances,  but 
were  prnbablj  most  unlike  those  permitted  in  the 
nearly  Puritan  household  in  which  Mrs.  Murray 
lived,  and  a  whisper  of  scandal  never  rested  on 
her  onme. 

It  is  true,  indeed,  that  Mrs.  Murray's  family  Is 
aupposed  to  trace  its  origin  to  a  race  of  kings  of 
Scotland  (the  Balliolsl,  who  were  not  lucky.  Her 
grandfather,  Mr.  Baillie  of  Jrrviswood,  waa  the 
protomartyr  in  Scotland  of  the  short  but  final  re- 
volution  ivhicli  rid  the  country  of  the  old  Stuarta ; 
and  even  in  song  and  Jest  the  onme  has  been  gene- 
itdly  unlucky  in  England  also.  But  waa  that  a 
reason  whr  Lady  M«iy  should  crucify  her  friend 
with  an  ode  or  stab  her  with  a  balladP  The  wit 
and  its  place  on  the  list  may  perhaps  justify  or 
explaiif  Its  retention,  but  its  original  ofTensiTenesa 
ana  its  indecency  might  exclude  it.  The  etUtors 
employed  by  a  great  publisher  might  scruple  to 
interfere  with  it,  but  ]>erhaps  a  noble  great^jrand- 
Bon  of  the  author  might  be  more  inclined  to  be 
critical  for  his  relatives'  sake.  E.  U. 

Philosophical  NAKBrnrEsa  (4"  S.  vii.  260.)— 
I  would  refer  your  correspondent  to  Carlyle's 
Sartor  Setartia,  where  sodetj  is  represented  in  a 
atate  of  nudity  in  order  to  show  the  influence  and 
emblematic  meaning  of  those  garments  in  which 
decent  people  have  generally  thought  it  necessary 
to  array  t^iamselvea.  In  this  work  we  have  a  pic- 
ture of  a  naked  duke  addressb^  a  naked  House 
of  Lords,  naked  kings  wrestling  with  naked  carmen, 
and  other  vagaries  of  fancy,  which  will  be  ax- 
pluned  by  the  following  remarks  of  the  author ; — 


"  Conafdartog  oar  presnit  advaoMd  state  of  enltnn,  it  ~ 
might  strike  tba  reflsctive  mind  with  aome  mrpris*  tb*t 
faitherto  liitle  or  nothing  of  a  ftiDdamsotal  chuaeter, 
whether  In  the  war  of  pbilosopby  or  hiatoiy,  bas  been 
writMD  on  the  autgect  of  dotbo*.  In  all  apecalationa, 
man  bu  flnred  as  a  dolAtd  animal,  wbereaa  he  la  by 
Datura  a  wuUrf  animal,  and  only  In  certaM  drcooutanom 
bj  purpose  and  dariea  maaka  hiDuelf  in  clothM." 

The  author  endeavours  to  ahow  that  the  first 

tnrpose  of  clothea  was  not  warmth  or  decency. 
ut  ornament  He  mtroduces  us  to  theaboriginal 
savage,  with  his  beard  hung  round  him  like  a 
matted  doak,  and  his  body  sheeted  in  its  thick 
natural  felL  Hunger  be  satisfies  by  the  chase, 
warmth  he  finds  among  dry  leaves  or  in  the 
hollow  tree,  but  for  decoration  be  must  have 
clothes. 

For  another  exponent  of  the  literature  of  the 
fig-leaf,  I  will  turn  to  some  of  Addison's  papers 
in  The  Gvardian.  In  No.  100  he  censures  the 
scantiness  of  female  dress,  and  advises  his  fair 
readers  to  "  imitate  the  innocence  and  not  the 
nakedneas  of  their  mother  Eve."  Noe.  \\%  134, 
140  also  treat  of  bare  necks  and  shoulders;  and 
the  propenaty  of  the  ladiee  of  that  time  to  dia- 
penae  with  clothing  is  apparent  from  the  follow- 
ing;— 

"In  the  beginning  oT  the  laat  eentaiy,  there  waa  a 
sect  of  men  among  ua  who  called  tfaemaalvei  Adamites, 
and  appeared  in  public  witboat  clothes.  Tbla  heraay 
may  apriog  up  In  tbe  other  sax  If  wa  do  not  put  a  timely 
■top  to  it,  tbars  beia^  ao  many  in  all  public  plaoas  who 
show  ao  gnat  sn  inchnation  to  be  Evltea." 

JULIAK  ShABIIAR. 

S,Fradtrlck's,Pl«ca,  E.C. 

Fooliah  notions  of  this  sort  were  refoted  long 
ago  by  St  Thomoa  Aquinaa  (obit  1374)  in  his 
BulilU  m  Oauut,  cap.  lii.  v.  21.  W.  H.  S. 

ExsLTBH  Qdekii  bdsibii  at  Pobto  Fimo  (4"*  S. 
vii.  208,)— Isabel,  daughter  of  King  John,  and 
wife  of  Friedrich  II.,  Emperor  of  Germany,  died 
at  Foggia,  Dec.  1, 1241.  la  she  the  "  English 
qneeu  conoeming  whom  yonr  correspondent  in- 
quires  P  HsBifKHTKnDB. 

Arabic  Nuubbals  is  Wells  Cathedral  (4* 
S.  vii.  282.)— The  Rev.  Alban  Butler,  in  a  note 
to  his  Life  of  St.  Tereta,  Oct  15,  mentions  an 
instance  of  the  figures  1090  having  been  dis- 
covered in  the  window  of  a  house  in  Colchester, 
part  of  which  is  a  Boman  vroll ;  and  another  from 
a  chimney-piece  in  the  parsonage  of  Helendon  in 
Northamptonshire,  where  is  inscribed  "M"  133," 
being  the  date  1133.  He  alto  states  that  Dr. 
WallU  has  proved  that  theee  figures  vrere  known 
in  England  before  1160.  They  are  seldom  met 
with  at  the  end  of  the  tlurteenth  century,  and  very 
rarely  in  the  fifteenth  and  even  sixteenth. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  British  Arch»ological  As- 
sociation, ApiB  1, 1B4B,  lir.  Wright  made  some , , 
interesting  remarks  on  these  numerals,  ertoneotuly 


NOTES  AND  QUESIES. 


[4«S.Vir.  April  29,'71. 


ealled  Anlne,  lefsRsig  then  nnrodnetaoai  to  fope 
SylTwter  II.  ct  A«  Mwiiiiag  of  the  «leTeBtb 
century.  In  tlie  irotice  m  the  JJterarg  OaieUe 
of  Qiese  remarks  examples  Of  &B  eulieet  forms  of 
these  figurea  we  fawta.  (See  Laartay  OaitUe  £at 
Apdl  4, 1846,  ^  «8.)  F.  a  H. 

These  are  not  very  uncommon  in  mediEeral 
woili.  Fot  eiasnles  a»e  tlw  plate  at  die  aid  of 
Godwin's  Arefuenk>gi£t  Bmdbook.  I  have  \1itA3 
Men  two  at  Foantains  hXhvj,  and  two  in  Kptm 
Minster: — 

1.  Above  the  neat  west  window  of  Fountains, 
wiiii  rebus  of  Aobot  Deraton.  1494. 

2.  In  the  interior  arcli  of  an  east  window  in 
the  Lndf  diapel  at  Fonntmns,  angel  bearing  scroD 
wUh  "  Anno  Domini  1483." 

S.  On  miaerete  tir  dean'*  stalL  Ripon  Minstei: 
1489. 

4.  At  the  end  of  staOa  leai  Ushop'a  Quone. 
1494. 

In  hU  these  the  4s  are  nnde  of  a  line  donUed 
and  crossed  like  a  figure  B  incomplete  at  bottom. 
I  have  examined  faundrada  of  esrij  bell-inaCTip- 
tioDB,  but  do  not  remember  anj  pie-reformation 
Arabic  figures  in  tiiem.  When  dated,  which  is 
seldom  the  case,  the  date  is  expresaed  in  uumerals 
or  in  words.  J.  T.  F. 

Hitileld  B«n,  Dnrlmu 

[On  Uiu  sabject,  imd  ia  ndf  to  a  limiUr  quuf.  Hit 
Bialder  for  April  15  Mfi :— "  We  know  of  none  an  itooe 
earlier  thsn  tbe  IxclnuiiKor  tha  fifteenth  centoi? :  the 
dele  141&  in  Huthfield  Chnccb,  Silkbz,  la  an  example 
we  biT*  often  qnoted.  Hie  nnmenli  occur  la  USS.  of 
the  precediog  oentar}'.''} 

Pbi<»t  «t  Bt.  EmwAK  {4'^  S.  vit.  SCU.)  — 
If  WiLPsis  or  OuwAz  eoualti  Hie  pi«&ce  to 
Tie&cordt  of  tie  Unor^  ^At  Ilk  of  Mmg,  an 
elegant  little  worb;  ablf  edited  \ty  Dr.  John 
Stnart  for  the  Sodetj  olScotUsh  Antiqnanee  in 
1668,  he  will  find  auwle  information  as  to  ita 
tnuufer  by  the  abbot  or  Beading  to  tbe  see  of 
St.  Andrews.  Abbot  Robert  3e  Burghgate  teems 
to  have  been  Qie  seller  and  Bishop  William 
Wishart  the  pnrcluMr.  AireLO-SoonrB. 

SiK  Thokaa  Sswxu.  <4'^  &  vii.  S06.)— lU^rt 
Sewell  of  Challiam,  eo.  Kent,  whose  win  is  dated 
Apnl  e,  1660,  had  I7  his  wife  Judith  two  sons  j 
the  eldest,  John,  a  nwKhaot  in  Lcndon,  whose 
will  is  dated  Jul;  i,  I6Q2,  had  by  his  wiA  Ahi- 
gail  four  SOBS  \  of  theas  sods  the  seoood.  Thomas^ 
appears  to  have  been  afterwards  the  Ruht  Hon. 
Sir  Thos.  Sewell,  £L,  Khatet  of  Ihe  Bolli,  &c 

Tee  Rhoksw  uni  Subcs  (4^  a  vi.  £84;  vil 
133.)— Then  eaaiM  ao  doobt  tbe  rhombus  is  tbe 
turbot,  but  the  aeams  can  hsidly  Iw  the  char,  as  I 
WM  taught  at  Etm  tliat  it  was  a  fish  diat  chewed 
ead,  n  tbe  cow.  I  vpfft^bieat  U  ia  a  fish  now 
Emsacuk. 


BieHap  Hqkdicu  Cast,  1781  (4*^  &  vii.  334.> 
ne  fidlnwiur  scrap  of  peitime,  oompited  davfl^ 
fmn  jiaitinslMe  furnished  by  a  member  of  this 
branch  of  the  Csiya,  may  poMbJy  sn^ty  a  cine 
to  the  infoMBatioa  songU  by  Y,  S.  U. :  — 
Jefan  Cury,  —wbM^  irfLiBdon  - 


Hordeod  Cuy,  Biabop  ofEillsla,  ■<i-i  1761  >^  Cathwine 


Bmry  Qty  (ddast  Mn)  Arehdeicon  of  KIDala  •■ 


ev.  Heeiy  Frandi  Oaiy  ' 


DBT.  atmy  r  raucifl  \jmjy  b  ,.,„^,_^daiL  ef  John 
(ddertsoo),  baptized  Fnn-  I  .Onnd>y,Esq.,orDnb&i? 
d*  Heni7,  the  tnuditor  of  1 
Duile. 


Was  the  J(^  Gary  1^  heads  this  list  idoH- 

tical  with  John  Cwy  who  waa  hnied  at  Potney, 

1701.eL57PASee  I^eaaa*  Smirmu  0/ La^Am, 

vL  41S,aiid  Aiibi«7'a  Jfirtery  (/4brr^,  ri.  139. 

R-Untam. 

Exeter. 

Hrjoi:  "Ths  LAHmra.Tioit  of  a  SnnraK" 
U**  S.  viL  298.)— According  to  Roundell  Palmer's 
Book  of  iViBM  this  hymn  la  by  Haidley,  and  is  of 
the  date  IG63.  Fart  of  it  is  given  as  a  hymn  in 
Sgmtu  Ardent  imd  Modern. 

Tho3.  AusTnr,  Juit. 

HitoblD. 

"  'Tib  bvttkk  to  hatx  iotxd  add  uost,"  ekl 
(V  S.  vii.  301.)—"  Hagia  gvudeiee  quod  babaaM 
famicnml  qnam  mcenne  qaed  amiaemt."  — 
Seneca,  fyUL  80.  This  aentimeat,  upon  which 
Um  philoMpher  enla^^  in  bk  ««n^  ^le.  is  a 
more  exact  as  wdl  M  an  earlier  a&tkipatioti  of 
Tennyeon'a  Itnes  than  the  quotation  from  Cca- 
gien.  O.  F.  S.  E. 

LosD  -  Bboxtobak  USD  aia  Colusx  Famn 

G (4"-  S.  vii.  277.)— The  atoij  at  p.  201  of 

Lord  Bremghan^t  Aidahiognfliu  cf  an  agreement 

with  hia  c:^ege  friend  Q Oat  which  everted 

tbat  should  appear  to  the  other,  and  t^  Appari- 
tion (if  tbe  gboat  of  O «aiMe(|Beot  tiierecn,  ia 

eratainly  not  new.    In  'Ae  iHmawt*  db  Omd*  it 


Ae  Harqnis  de  BaroboidUet,  the  eMest  sen  <f 
the  celcAnsted  Hnqnise  wd  Ae  Harqida  4e  Tna. 
The  fomer  (known  only  as  the  HaR[ais  de  Fiand, 
bis  bthei  being  alive)  pndeeeaaed  hn  fiiend,  aad 


««&TIL  APBiLt9,7I.] 


NOT£S  AND  QUERIES. 


vtm  kiikd  at  tiie  IvtUa  rf  NoidlSiigaL  in  164^  kl 
tlm^^jaan  of  we. 

The  BBtboi  of  tile  Mimeire*  du  ComU  de  Ronhe- 
fort  is  Bnppoaed  lo  be  Qratien  de  CourtilXj  who, 
after  soffenng  a  lengthened  imprisomneDt  in  the 
BaatiUe.  died  in  FW  May  6,  YIM. 

S.  W.T. 

CBZTTOQUrsT  (i**  8.  vii  165,  2&L>— Ub. 
BxuB  hu  made  ■  tnistdw  in  bia  e«ohi&in  of  Um 
laat  ajptwiam  gtren  hj  J.  R.  C.  at  p.  156,  aad 
enriooaly  J.  R.  &  bas  also  made  a  eGght  lairtitke 
in  one  aTmbi^  The  thiid  letter  ef  the  fiiat  WMd 
(dutnld  De  ajmbolized  by  30  iDStead  of  32,  and 
them  the  whole  Hntaiice  reads  "Haog  the  bearer." 
liie  method  on  which  thia  dphei  is  coTutmctfld 
is  veiy  ineanioua,  and  aufficieiitlj  timple  in  work' 
tng  to  mue  it  worth  knowing.         J.  H.  Ellis. 

How  Mb.  J.  Bkale  gets  "  Find  the  deceit "  out 
of  J.  B>  O.'s  last  cryptogram  ia  a  mystery.  Though 
tJMreiesn  emv  in  the  first  word  (36,  19,32,21 
being  printed  for  S8, 10, 30, 21),  yet  the  meonHig 
ia  obViooB  from  J.  R.  C.'s  thiid  aqtutina — ''  Heag 


The  key  to  J.  Bb&ls'b  cryptogram  iv— 
ASCDSTGU 
35  24  23  23   21   SO  19    18, 
&C.  &C. ;  or,  to  put  it  in  the  ibrm  of  an.  eau&tion, 
.r  =  28-P. 

But  I  think  he  orerlooks  the  essence  of  J.  R.  C.'a 
^fstem,  which  is.  thart  the  ralne  of  x  cbengea 
irith  the  Tahie  of  b  and  j^  so  that  n  the  caae  of 
double  letters,  or  (rf  a  letter  oeconing  twice  in  a 
iroid,  the  yalue  of  « ia  not  the  same  each  tine, 
thoa  taking  away  a  great  aid  to  any  one  tryisg  to 
dadpber  the  cryptogiani.  I  differ  &om  J.  Baui.n 
about  (3)  ID  J.  R.  C.'a  artiele,  which  I  think  is 
correctlv  inrolred  fwith  one  exception),  and  means 
"  Hang  the  bearer.  The  first  word  snould  be  28, 
19, 30,  21,  instead  of  28, 19,  82,  21.  WiU  J.  R.  C. 
let  me  know  if  I  am  right?  P:  R.  H.  P. 

Smi-BIAL  iKBOBIFITOITa  (4*  S,  Til.  255.)  — 
Allow  me  to  add  one  to  P.  W.  S.'a  sun-dial  in- 
flcriptdons: — 

On  a  nbd  la  Pita. 


Wheie  is  Ibis  common  inacriptloD  oii^ally 

"  Penont,  et  iropatantur  ?  " 

W.  (1.) 

CK»P8iow=EaTRTaHOiiL  (4**  S.  riL  34j  200.) 
There  is  no  difltculty  in  the  explanation  oC  these 
names  themaeWea,  or  in  theii  application  to  t!be 
same  locality. 

Ths  Cambrian  naniea  of  placea  are  usually  do- 
med from  the  natural  features  or  phenomena  of 
the  neighbourhood.  At  the  embouchure  of  the 
Wye,  where  Chepstow  b  atnated,  the  tide  raahea 


wUh  gnat  imyetBBMt^  ttimuh  the  luarowei^ 
trance  of  the-  nver,  riamg  at  the  Aill  and  cbann 
of  the  moon  not  lesa  than  fi%  feet.  Hence  the 
■al,''thBn 


"  EMag^boewal,'' 


e  rapid  eddr  or 


Cymiic 

whirling  1      .  _      , 

Av.    The  aUMadBn  neiag  a  faToorsble  a 

trade,  at  the  eoofineiice  of  two  osvigable  riTers, 

the  eariy  Ihi^b  aettleta  confiaied  on  it  the 

name  of  Cei9-8towe,.modarmaed  into  Chepstow, 

the  natlut  oe  place  oT  taada^  J.  A.  Picnw. 

SandrkeMra,  WavaMea,  MM  IJvaipODl. 

The  derivation  of  Sbngdian  from  Strata  Jidia 
seems  reasonaJsle  enough.  Cenf.  IWuii  &om 
Jfomta  ■Wh.  The  nam»  ater  alao  be  derived  £ram 
another  appellation  of  the  Wye,  from  the  Critae 
y  (()  dwr  ffowel,  the  tiBnaparent  or  clear  atream. 
Conf.  the  Gaelic  ffeal,  white,  fair,  bright,  dear. 
Chepstow  af  couae  DBans  mmph  mariiet-plaos. 
K.  8.  CsAmrocx. 

Grar'a  Ian. 

Bia-CTixii  (4'"  S.  y'a.  18S,  294.>-It  is  remaik- 
nhla  that  while  thinking  to  correct  me  Ms.  J.  H. 
1.  OixLiT  did  not  tmetm  ftat  be  wae  aaymg 
eiacdy  the  same  Uraig,  with  a  Ettle  mote. 
"  Pouts  oat  A»  spirit  of  the  book  infa>  the 
sduto."  What,  then,  is  pouring  one  thing 
mto  aaotter  but  wf»»mg  it  P  louring  into  oae 
tfaJBg  aecoaawKty  in^lyin^  pouiii^  oat  of  BBother. 
Bnt  DOwoa  to  the  pnmat  meaoii^  of  the  word : 
iriMU  w»  say  of  any  one  that  anch  or  *a^  a 
tiiiag  dfi-^iunb  a  poaon,  or  that  he  is  ^itpiritad, 
do  we  mean  that  the  spint  ia  pemtd  nut  of  him 
into  amthw,  a^  that  what  ae  lo»»»  the  oCbcai 
ffomaf  I  think  not,  but  tiie  nl^r  as  I  hare 
already  stated,  the  meaniaria''deprrTed  of  spirit," 
fit,  a»  the  dietioaariesaay,  ^to  aihanst  the  spirita." 
A  smikr  chwige  is  to  be  found  in  the  word  pn- 
veHf  =  formerly  to  go  before  or  to  direct,  now  to 
hinder  or  obstruct  Edxuiiii  Tbw,  U.A. 

Fatching  Kicteir,  AmadaL 

Baptimi  tcb  thk  Dew>  M""  S.  vii.  107,  263,) 
If  not  intrudiag  teo  mmm  on  the  pi^ee  n 
"  N.  &  Q.,"  perhapa  the  fcjiowing  extract  from 
Thmnas  Oodwya's  Jtfom»  and  Aaxwt  may  be  worth 

"It  inar  be  damandtd,  what  maoaer  at  Baplmtm  Una 
iraa?  With  Bubmission  of  myjadf^enunt,  I  UBikntaad 
Vtat  place  witb  S.  AvJirme  of  a  Sacnaarntal  uNuAnp, 
aoWii  tuto  Kime  liviiiB  maa  ia  the  name  and  behalf  af 
Ua  (Hand,  dying  wttbanl  BhptiaaKt  eat  of  a  enpentitioiiB 
ooecdt,  that  tha  SacmiMDt  Oaa  caafenred  to  eoa  alin, 
ia  tha  name  of  tha  deceased,  might  ba  sTailable  An;  the 
other  dying  laiftqpti—it  1  a  if  the  Apostle  diil  woond 
tboae  aopanUtioaa  Coiiatfaiaaa  with  their  ovae  ()ulb,  and 
prove  the  rsaarrection  of  lAe  dead  ftom  their  own  erro- 
neods  pracciM  ;  telling  tbent  in  efiecl,  that  their  aapar- 
stidoiis  cuatome  of  baptiiiag  the  living  for  the  dead,  weie 
-vaine  and  bootlesi,  if  Uirre  wera  no  ceearrecUoQ.  Aad 
thsrefbre  tha  Apoitle  naeth  an  amphatival  datiaction  of 
tkt  pertoTu,  in  the  next  immediate  veree.  isjing.  Why 
are  we  alao  in  jsapardj  evuy  haai^  ba  iii£iiieth  the  re- 
.:._  v_. —  .1-.  j_..n .  the>r»t,  dmwoe 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [i^s-vii.  apbh.m.'tl 


fVoni  d«iV  mpentitioiu  hif-(ua(i«  ror  tbe  ciMd  |  Uw 
rnond,  ftom  Ihe  hoarlj  }«op*nl7  ani]  perill  vtherein  ITW, 
that  is,  himseir  and  other  Chrittiatu  are.  So  thai,  aa 
that  Father  nottth,  tho  Apontle  doth  not  hereby  appnm* 
thdr  doing,  bnt  teinctih  their  hope  of  the  rMorrection 
ttata  their  o^n  practice,  thoneh  emmeoaa.  That  then 
1VU  Viearium  tide  baptitmt  (aa  TtrtnUiam  calleth  it, 
BtMar.  Cbmii]  in  nee  amon^  the  Starcimtitet,  li  evident, 
yea  and  among  the  Ccrinttioiti  also  (/^pipAon.  dt  Cn-in- 
di'aini  Aarti.  -IS)   the  manner  thereof  is  thue  described 


1  Ihe  .  ,       ,, 

aoMld  bt  baptitedf  then  he  r/j>iyiiu/ nothing^  the  parly 
uader  tht  btd  atuaxredfor  him,  taying,  Uiat  ht  Humid  be 
beptized;  and  Oaa  Ihry  baptiicd  him  for  Iht  dtad,  ai  if 
thty  adcd  a  plaa  «»»  Ihi  tUgt."  (P.  240,  edit.  Lraidon, 
16M.) 

RC. 

Cork. 

Thx  Bohbs  Avi>  Coms-TTAns  of  Robebt 
Bbucb  C4"'  S.  Tii.  297.)— It  is  anrely  «  "  fact " 
which  hnd  been  better  left  to  oblivion,  tbnt  in 
1838  "  the  widow  of  the  Ute  Dr.  Gregoij,  of 
fsmona  duaicsl  and  m«diCHl  memorj,"  was  pos- 
aeasod  of  "  the  banet  imd  coffin  nails  of  BoDert 
Bruce"!  But  I  tiiink  ;onr  eeteemed  corres- 
pondent O.  will  for  once  agree  with  me  in  tbink- 
iO|{  that  such  en  imputation  as  this,  against  the 
memorj'  of  the  emioent  pbjsician,  cannot  be  true. 
He  who  took  such  relics  aa  the  bimes  of  the  hero 
from  tbeir  resting-place  must  have  been  a  thief 
foTthisTing's  sake.  Let  us  hope  that  the  nuthen- 
tiutj  of  these  same  "bones'  is  on  a  pu  with 
that  of  the  rowelled  "  spurs "  tradidonallT  be- 
lieved to  be  those  of  the  kin^,  but,  Mcordin^  to 
Mr.  Bemhard  Smith  (4**  S.  tJ.  120),  of  a  seven- 
teenth  century  pattern  I  Such  "facts"  muatbe 
well  TBiified  before  adnussioD  to  the  Index  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  ANOLO-SooTua. 

Albahet  and  Akoxdevilis  (4'^  S.  tIL  234, 
S12.)— Aiure  a  fret  or  is  quartered  bj  the  Uvo- 
deles  of  Wickham  for  "  Scures,"  the  lords  of  the 
manors  of  Nateir  Scures  and  of  Wickham,  co. 
Hants.  John  de  Uvednle,  Esq.  (son  and  heir  of 
Sir  Thomas  de  Uvednle),  married  Sibilla,  only 
daughter  and  heiress  of  Sir  John  de  Scures, 
Knight.  The  arms  of  the  Uvedales  will  be  found 
blatoned  in  Baigent  and  Rtissell's  Praclieal  Manual 
of  Heraldry,  \mi.  J.  3^. 

Sir  Edward  Griffin  of  Brsybroke  and  Mnglej, 
CO.  North  am.  Knt.,  married  Frances,  one  of  the 
daughters  and  coheiresses  of  Sir  William  Uvedale 
of  Wickham.  She  died  10S9.  A  complete  pedi- 
pee  of  the  Uvedales  of  Wickham  will  be  found 
in  the  Surrey  Arch.  Soc.  publications,  vol.  lit. 

C.  R. 

"  Whether  ob  no"  (4"  S.  vii.  143,  286.)- 
The  Kbie  also  is  in  favour  of  tio.  See  Exod.  ivi 
4,  and  Deut.  viii.  2. 

With  the  Bible  ud  Shakespeare  in  its  bTOur 
the  phnse  stands  ax<»eTated  from  the  charge*  of 


being  «  slip-shod/'  "  slovenly,"  and  "  angram- 

matical."  J-  U-  Coirm. 

Ben  Jonson,  in  his  Exeertttton  agamtt  Vulcan, 

tells  us  he  wrote  — 

"  A  Grammar  too. 
To  teach  some  that,  their  Darses  could  not  do; 
The  pnritjr  of  langaagc" 

And  as  be  waa  most  careful  of  his  own  st^le,  end 
often  revised  his  words  Bad  sentences,  it  may  not 
be  amiefl  to  supplement  the  examples  given  by 
R.  M.  with  theee  nhich  I  have  casually,  and  wltli- 
ont  looking  for  them,  come  across: — 


Bat,  trh^htr  his  oath  can  bi 

Being  not  taken  lawmllr  ?  ha  1  si 

Erery  Man  i»  Hu  i^uiani. 


MoiniitiNO,  OB  Blace-eoqbd  WBirmo-PAPEK 
(4*^  S.  viL  209,  809.)— Black  wax  no  doubt  came 
into  use  at  least  as  early  aa  black-edged  paper. 
I  have  letters  sealed  in  black  by  Charles  Carr, 
Bishop  of  Killaloein  1721,  and  by  Thomas  Smjih, 
Bishop  of  Limerick  aiiti  1725,  with  a  nomina^on 
to  the  Vice- Chancellorship  of  the  Univerdty  of 
Dublin,  sealed  in  black  by  the  great  Duke  of 
Ormonde  in  Februsry  1714-5.  The  latter  mny  have 
been  owing  to  Queen  Anne's  death.  Gort.  - 

I  have  been  fortunate  enoug:h  to  hit  upon  an 
early  reference  to  this  article  m  Allan  Ramsay's 
poems,  with  which  1  am  making  acquaintance  tot 
the  first  time,  and  tbey  are  worth  being  known. 
On  p.  34,  vol.  ii.  of  the  edition,  l<>linburgb,  17dO, 
occurs  the  following  stanin : — 

"  TboD  table-border'd  alieet,  begone, 
Harbour  to  tbee  I  muat  reluM  ; 
Sure  thou  canst  welcome  Qnd  TroiD  none. 
Who  carries  such  ungrateful  news." 

The  "sable-bordered  sheet"  summoned  the 
poet  to  attend  the  burial  of  a  friend,  and  was  in 
use  1 50  yean  ago,  for  the  nest  date  in  the  volume 
is  1724. 

One  of  Max  Midler's  discoveries  seems  antid- 
pated  in  page  37  :— 

"  O  Daphne,  sweeter  than  (he  dawn. 
When  ran  glance  on  the  h«ght, 
Diffusing  gladnesa  o'er  the  lawn. 
With  atrakea  of  rliiag  light,"     ^ 

LOED     BhOUGHAM    ANH      the    NrOHTIKQAl-E 

MoKnMRNT  (4"  S.  vii.  277,  3300— Why  »  »••" 
l^y  peneveringly  called  Mn.  Nightingale  P  As 
daughter  (and  coheiress  indeed^  of  ^e  second 
Earl  Ferrara  she  is  surely  entitled  to  be  called 
Lady  EUsabeth  Nightingale  P.  P. 

[Lady  Nightingale  died— at  leaat  »o  eaya  the  inacrlB- 
ttaa  on  the  monununt— Ang.  IT,  1781,  ihenhy  < 
Mb,  Piotos's  itattmeaU'J 


4»  S.  TIL  Apau.  !9,'T1.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


379 


TsnuooirAL  Iitbcbifiios  (4'^  S.  vii.  844.) — 
The  wtada  atteched  to  the  letter  E.  in  the  io- 
•criptioii,  "  I\)att«tiebn«,  lux,"  are  from  the  Lttia 
Vulgate  of  the  Book  of  Job,  xviL  12 :  "  Noctem 
Terterunt  in  diem,  et  post  Uuebraa  tpero  lucent." 
The  othei  three  tentenceR,  I  aaspect,  were  com- 
-pOMd  as  appropriate  accompaaiments,  pursuing 
the  hopeful  prospect  opened  bj  the  first  eentence 
to  its  close,  in  secure  salvatiou.  F.  C.  H. 

Btrsn  OK  Bdrp  (4*^  S.  ra.  282. J— The  original 
neaning  and  the  local  usage  of  tnis  word  as  nn 


nuiy  perhaps  be  illuatrHted,  if 
reached,  from  the  following  words,  wliicb  appear 
to  be  congeuers  : — "  Baare,  the  point,  head,  or  top 
of  a  hill ;  hirragh,  pointed ;  brogh,  uie  breast  or 
heights  of  mouutains ;  byrjey,  high,  elevated,  emi- 
nent;  Jyn-apA,8harp-pointed,"  {S.fs\\y't  Manx  Diet. 
Douglas,  1806.)— "Son-,  pj>int,  top,  tip,  end,  ex- 
tremity, head ;  bruthach,  an  accllTit]',  ascent,  a 
steep,  a  hill-side,  a  precipice."  (UcAlpine's  Oa^ 
Diet.  Edinb.  1886.)— "Bapp,  the  top,  head,  or 
summit  of  a  thing ;  "  bajijian,  the  tope  of  moun- 
tains ;  beappab',  the  tops  or  cli£&  of  mountuns, 
or  rocks ;  bniisac',  an  ascent,  face  of  a  hilL" 
(O'Reilly's  IriA  Bid.  Dublin,  1817.)— Add  to 
these,  "htrjf,  mom.  Ulphilas,  bairg  ....  Wach- 
teruB  berff  dictum  putat  i  bare,  elevare."  (Ihre, 
GioM.  SmogoChicum,  toL  i  col.  163,  foi  Upaal, 
1769.)-"  Bar,  culmen,  Isl."  (Junius,  Eti/ni.  fol. 
OxoD,  1743,  a.  V.  "Barrow.")  But  in  Cleasby's 
Ictl.  Diet  by  Mr.  Gndbrand  Vigfusson  (Oxford 
Glar.  Press,  1860,  p.  60),  btrg  is  sud  to  have  ^'a 
n)edal  name:  a  rock,  elevated  rocky  ground." 
Compare  also  btrg  Germ.,  ^'arrg  Dan.,  and  binnh 
Ang.'Sez.  (Somoer'sDvct.)  HalliweU,inbi8Z>ic<. 
of  Ardiaic  and  Prov.  Wordt,  gives  "  barf,  a  hill. 
"Yorhfhire." 

From  all  these  authorises  it  seems  reasonable 
to  infer  that  the  word  burff,  barf,  or  iai/ derives 
its  meaning  of  an  eminence  from  the  root  bar 
or  baart,  which  is  found  in  so  many  languages, 
espedally  in  those  of  the  Celtic  and  Gaelic  fami- 
lies, in  the  sense  of  top  or  head.  £,  A.  D. 


Doubtless  the  same  as  the  Lincolnshire  word 
Sarff,  used  of  a  long^low  ridue — e.  g.  Iloweham 
Bai«',MetheringhaniBarfi'.  Altinson(a>D.(?ioM.) 
connects  it  with  bargh,  baniffh,  bowgh,  ba-g,  ftc, 
the  gutturals  being  changed  to  #.  as  in  Utritff  for 
through,  &C.  J.  T;F. 

HatAeld  Hall,  Durham. 

GoESB  U»  S.  vii.  323.)— The  vonng  lady  who 
writes  under  the  signature  of  ^ontb  be  .\i.to 
must  not  expect  to  find  ntanv  flowers  with  em- 
blematic sigaifications  attached  to  them.  Indeed, 
with  the  eiceptiou  of  a  few  very  obvious  ones, 
such  as  the  lily,  the  rose,  the  amaranthus,  &c.,  the 
emblems  given  to  fiowen  are  very  arbitrary  and 


fanciful.  The  gorse  is  not  at  all  a  likely  dkruh  to 
have  any  marked  emblematical  meaning;  noi  do 
I  believe  that  any  haM  ever  been  affixed  to  it.  I 
could  agree  with  the  editor  in  the  hint  given  in 
bis  note;  but  moved  by  a  very  different  reason. 
The  prickly  nature  of  the  plant  is  a  sufficient 
warning  to  keep  awav  frem  contact  with  it ;  and 
so  far  the  gorse  may  De  emblematical  oF  the  con- 
sequences of  indulging,  not  what  I  could  consci- 
entiously  coll  "  a  good  old  English  custom,"  but 


Trbhch's  Hitlseak  Lbcifbes  (4"'  8.  vii.  78, 
198.) — Having  noticed  the  inquiry  as  to  "  the 
great  poet  of  our  modem  world,*'  and  the  quota- 
tion  from  him  made  in  "  N.  &  Q."  according  to 
the  reference,  I  am  enabled  to  supply  the  informa- 
tion from  the  original  source.  The  Archbishop  of 
Dublin  writes  to  me  that  "  the  great  poet  is 
Goethe,  and  the  great  passage  is  at  the  opening 
of  hie  Faua."  Frakcis  Tbesch. 

llUp  Il«ctory. 

BisuABCK  ANTtciPiTBn :  "STBwma  m  tbeib 
owKGKivr"  (4"-S.  vii.  187,  2:2.)— 
"  H;  fithcr'a  ghoat  comea  thro'  the  door, 
Though  ihal  la  aars  aa  handa  can  miks  tt. 
And  feada  ma  such  a  fearful  racket, 
I  atew  all  nJxhl  lu  my  own  ffrsaaa," 
CottOQ'a  Virga  TravatU,  p.  SS,  1807,  lith  edition. 

Loniu  Julia  Noku&x. 

I  think  I  can  give  a  cloeer  parallel  from  Thomas 
Fuller's"life  of  Duked'Alva":- 

"  And  Icat  the  m^Dtalnlng  of  garrlsMU  might  be  boi- 
denaoma  to  the  kiog  bia  matter  ha  laid  heavy  impoal- 
tlona  on  the  people :  the  duke  amnnJiig  that  theaa  conn- 
trlei  ware/at  nini^  to  bt  iltiBtd  u  iMr  iwa  ligtier,  end 
that  the  aoldicn  hare  might  be  maintained  by  tbs  pniflta 
arialng  henca.  Tea,  he  boaatcd  that  he  bad  fbnnd  the 
niDCS  of  Pern  in  the  Low  Conntriea,  Ihonsh  Che  digging 
of  them  never  quitted  the  coat."— TAa  Bol*  Statt  muf 
tie  Pro/uMw  Slatt,  by  Tfaos.  Fuller,  DJD.  (LondOD,  W. 

Pickering,  1840),  p.  ass. 

T.  W.  C. 

Mrs.  Oom  (4«>  S.  viL  210.)— Hn.  Oom  was  s 
lady  well  known  to  many  penoDS  still  living  for 
her  musical  talents  and  many  accomplishments. 
She  married  secondly  the  lught  Hon.  Joseph 
Flanto,  some  years  M.P.  for  Hasdngs. 

Ahicus. 

Thk  Grbit  Brab  AMD  SuxuBB  Raiitfail 
(4**  8.  vii.  300.)— It  would  be  satiBfactory  to 
know  what  the  "  skilful  old  gardener,  a  native  of 
Yoritshire,"  means  by  saying  that  "the  Great 
Bear  is  on  lAia  tide  of  the  North  Pole." 

W.  SI.  Shewbll. 

RiMllngtou. 

The  Priokt  or  Coldutghau  (4'*  S.  vii.  187, 
311.)— I  regret  that  I  did  not,  as  I  intended,  write 
the  present  note  on  the  apprarftoce  of  the  former  ,  ^' 


380 


XOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [••a.vu.in.LHTL 


notiee  in  p-  187,  m  I  miglit  hMra  stved  *eau 
e^puoloeical  Bpacalaticu  id  the  latter  (p.  311). 
Cantf't  Brtdg«,  aeu  Berwick,  a  weU-huawa  ao- 
glinc  rmdaeotu  hj  nmeai  p«rUf  of  a  roadude 
pnkliclioase  there  ntnated,  derivM  its  name  fron 
a  focmer  oocupant  of  the  aaid  house,  whoie  nama, 
if  1  mirtake  not,  wai  Swan,  but  who  iras  umrer- 
sallv  kaoini  as  Cimty  (i  «.  ^Telf,  cheerful,  Jamie- 
VM»SeBt,DicHommjf,mibv«c«),  la  fact  to  this  day 
tlM  Itxadi^  it  moat  coDunonly  mentiaaed  witLout 
tiie  bridge  altogether ;  t.  a.  (achoelboj  hoidtyr) : 
"When  are  TougoiDgonSatardajfJai^P^'  "Oh, 
out  to  Canty  a." 

It  is  rather  a  eariinu  cointndeace  tiiat  my  in- 
formatiai  rtgarding  Omttft  ^^&  ^f"  detivftd 
from  "a  person  of  tbe  mnae  at  Pdmore,"  men- 
tienad  hy  your  ooR«^ondent  J.  H.        P.  E.  N. 

OsRKur  ExiMOLoauiu.  BiononKm  (4*^S. 
n.  SOS.)— Then  aie  tw«  booka  thkt  -would  miit 
A  Fi»EieirEB's  {wrpoee:  Suidera'  WSHerbuck 
dgr  DeuUtAm  SmnrAe,  and  Schwen^'s  Wdiitr- 
hueh  der  Deutschta  ^rache,  in  Bmidumg  tmf 
Abiiammung  and  Beffriffibiidunff.  Fiankfiut  am 
Mwn,  Vierte  Anflage.    1666,  8°. 

The  former  ia  a  large  work  odIt  known  to  me 
by  title,  but  the  HattdteorUrbucA  by  the  same 
anther  is  not  etymological  Schwenck'a  ia  a 
volume  of  778  pAgea,afcouuderable  merit,  though 
occancmaUy  radiar  crotcheto^. 

For  the  iaformatks  of  Mb.  Ckabnocx  I  take 
thia  owortunity  to  mention  that  the  &ao-OotJii- 
cvm  or  Ihre  means  nothii^  elee  than  Swedish,  as 
Dire — the  font  et  arigo  as  regards  Swedish  e^- 
molfttj — entertained  IJie  notion  that  the  original 
pmnutinn  of  Sweden  cconated  of  the  Soiouea  of 
TaiBtai  with  an  ■douxtaia  of  Ooths. 

J.  H.  LmrMUF. 

Potst  db  Vicb  C4»''  S.  viL  255.)— In  Johnson 
and  Walker's  Dietionan  I  find  "Foiot  (famw  or 
dmtiet  (in  one  word).  In  it*  ptimaty  seDM,  work 
TMofonned  by  the  needle ;  nd  the  term  paka- 
MM^  still  familiar  to  every  female :  in  a  secondaiy 
anue,  foist  ieem  beeune  applioahle  to  whatever 
WH  nncoBKonly  exacf^  or  constructed  with  the 
lUO^  and  precudon  of  stitches  made  or  devited 
by  the  needle."  P.  A.  L. 

HoLOUS  LAXiTim  (^  B.  tiL  3SS.)— Ms.  Jakh 
BM'itih  inquirea  why  this  grass  is  called  "  York* 
Aire  fog."  Ele  must  be  aware  t^t  the  -watAftg 
IB  SootiSad,  and  in  ooi  northern  oovntiea,  mata.- 
&M  Mum.  May  not  tben  ^e  Sdem  lamatmt,  aom 
its  tott  woolly  nature,  bare  obtained  the  bum  of 
fyff,  partfcuhu'^  in  Yorkshire  F  In  Ash'a  DiC' 
tionmy  we  find  the  name  derived  from  ike  low 
Latin  /offOffium,  and  he  gives  for  ita  inaaning 
"afLer-^raas,  not  eaten  in  summer."       F.  C.  H. 

Faxsb  Quajthtim  (4*  S.  vU.  819,)— Allow 
lU  to  digest  to  A»  Kttkor  of  tStt  Lam  Tori^ 


of"  FroTiDcialChaiBateEBtieB''tkeMMatalkn  of 
".S alios"  {dr"Atqvw  alias"  in  tfaa  U^atMU 
of  lus  traaalatiai.  Be  wwdd  thos  attan  &• 
dawisHa  uniformity  of  a  Use  ^aality  in  evBry 
staaca,  whereas  at  prewBt  tiw  diattnetion  has  been 
ooD&md  npOD  the  fitat  tktee  ooly.  A  "  Sdolar" 
who  could  be  ^Uy  of  "aempw  avdaj^"  "  prae* 
quitiir,"  and  "  inhi^"  miriit  veiy  well  hava  grNO 
us  "  et  alios,"  or  "  at  uhL  Is  therb  no  s«ch  thing 
as  a  Gradut  in  all  Dublin  ? 

Of  certain  eccentrinties  of  rendering,  which,  it 
might  not  reqinre  a  "lynx-eyed  eritu  "  to  dia- 
eover,  I  demre  to  s«^  notiiing.  The  resdeiiiw 
"ex  deciee  novies"  for  "nine  out  of  ten  timea" 
win  be  readily  accepted  by  your  readers,  if  for  no 
otiber  leason,  at  least  on  the  eooie  of  novelty. 

C.  8.  J.,  UJi..  Oiow. 

The  gentlenm  who-  (dodb  hiimelf  "  A.  B.,  Ex- 
Scholar,  Trin.  CoH  DabUB,"  idiould  look  tt  bia 
Latin  verses  agva,  and  aond  to  "  N.  &  Q."  an 
amended  copy. 

1.  In  the  second  line,  the  oceond  syUaUe  of 
"  semper "  is  thort,  e.  g.  "  Sempfe  ego  auditor 
tantum"  (Juv,  Sat.  I.  1.  1).  It  may  stand  if 
altered  thus ;  "  Andax,  nee  seraper,"  &C. 

2.  In  Hne  three,  "  fnocit"  is  aeaioely  dsaaied. 

5.  In  t^efburthline  ocetirfl'',praft{dam,",whoBe 
aecond  syllable  is  always  given  as  loiiff,  e.  g.  — 

"  Qnid  peMEtonua  proMfda  corpon  in  Qla." 

FaoDKirT.  ia  Jfotk,  v.  1006. 
i.  In  the  seventh  line  the  writer  makes  the 
second  syllable  of  "  prosequitur  "  bmg,  but  it  is 
»*ort,  e.  g.:  — 
"  PjosEqnilor 

6.  In  the  last  line  it  is  too  great  alicence  to 
mijie  the  last  syllable  of  "ndeat"  2t)iiff,  betbre 
"  DCcupaL" 

The  tutors  of  Trin.  Coll.,  Dublin,  would  never 
pass  over  four  fslse  quantities  in  dxteen  lines,  noi 
would  an  AB.  of  that  distioguished  coQege  be 
likely  to  nuke  them,  and  therefore  most  probably 
the  copy  is  incorrect.  K  A.  D. 


HOIXS  on  BOOKS.  KTC. 

mOtlmi  MalmabiTiauit  Momeki  Dt  detit  Pimiyiaim 

At^lerum  Libri  Qnmow.    Et^tid  fiom  At  Avtogn^ 

Mmuicr^  iy  N.  £.  H.  A.  HaioiUeii. 
BMttiie  mud  JftubaM  DaemiuKU  tflrtliad,  aj>.  1172- 

1510,  fiom  Ot  Jniiva  of  At  Ob,  of  DiMi-L,  kc. 

£<i(i^(w  J.  T.  Gilbert,  F.£jU  Sscntaiy  of  the  PiUaie 

Bmrt  Ottos  cfltdaad. 


-doMklsa  Bi  MBMiih  «f  ChMt  Briiaia  aM  InW 


*^a.VIL  Apbii.S9,71,] 


fiUTES  AND  QUEHIES. 


381 


nido  tha  dinctioB  of  the  Huter  of  tlw  Kolfa^  diScriBg 
to  widely  U  they  io  in  Bcojpe  add  ol^ect.  Are  jvt  Alike  tn 
ons  tluDg — tha  Mnog  daua  th^  pnt  tanh  to  public 
recognitioD.  The  fltM,  not  calj  on  the  groand  that  it  in 
the  work  of  one  of  the  most  tnntworthy  of  oar  English 
Chronlcten,  William  of  HAlni«bui7,  ood  that  it  is  the 
faundatioD  of  the  early  «cckalaBtdcil  hiatorj  of  England, 
at  ISMt  down  to  aj).  1133,  on  which  «D  wilten  lure 
efaicdy  ndied  ;  bat  ftutiUT  bacams,  bariiw  hithaito  been 

8 rioted  in  a  Tery  inacciiTat*  and  nnsalislactoiy  mannn, 
,  is  now  pat  Tarth  with  gieat  ear*  and  jodgmeat  by  Mr. 
Nldiolas  Hamilton,  and  that  from  ■  HS.  which  he  shows 
good  imnn  fbr  betleTing  to  han  bun  tha  aatluir'a  anto- 

menta.  Oa  the  iteod  aorke  which  the  editor  has  rendared 
to  hlaterical  Mndant*  bj  its  pablkatioii,  it  is  oaedlets  to 
Inrist. 

So  little  bos  been  done  op  la  the  present  lime  to  throw 
light  npon  the  hlstoiy  of^  the  mnnidpal,  middle,  and 
tnding  dosses  In  Ireland  In  connection  with  the  rule  of 
England  in  the  twelfth  and  tbnr  following  centuries,  that 
a  Toluiae  like  Mr.  Gilbert's  will  be  sura  to  dad  a  ready 
wdoonw.  It  contains  a  sarias  of  daeoments  fnm  a.d, 
1172  to  AJi.  13S0,  mainly  connected  with  Kocth  Leioster, 
which,  OS  including  Dublin  and  Drogbeda,  eonstitated 
a  principal  portion  of  the  Anglo-Norman  settlement  in 
Ireland,  If  the  Documents  have  been  widely  disperMd 
and  eoniaqaanUy  far  lo  seek — and  the  nolica  of  their 
nature  and  plai^  of  deposit  are  by  no  means  the  least 
interesting  portion  of  Hr.  Gilbert's  iattudaction — and  if 
when  found  msny  of  them  preaent  great  difficultiefl  from 
bains  written  doring  tha  early  perioda  in  oontraeted 
coiiu  Latin  or  law  French,  nplete  with  ardiaic  teohni' 
calltka  now  long  obsolete,  still  Uia  stMob  and  labour 
hare  not  bwa  waatadi,  ainoa  tbsy  baT*  piodtued  a  Tnlmne 
which  throws  much  li^t  apoo  a  candiUDa  of  sodety  in 
Inland  of  wUdi  as  yet  scarcely  anything  is  known. 

Books  ncnyui.— BEnuucnice)  ofSirffalttr  Scott. 
Sy  John  Gibeon,  Writer  to  the  ^gnet  (A.  Ji  C.  Black.) 
An  ttnprelandlng  little  Totnme,  iu  whidi  Hr.  Gibson, 
who  became  the  lawyer  of  Sir  Walter  in  1822,  and  was 
his  Mend  and  adviser  through  all  hia  pecuniary  difficnt~ 
tin,  leoords  his  recollections  of  him,  and  in  so  doing 
Increases  onr  sympathy  and  irapect  for  the  great  norelist. 

A  Cmtim  to  AiigUrt,  or  "  Tit  Fracticai  Antder"  and 
-  71*  Madtrn  PrmtiaU  AmIct  "  ocaitpand.  BfW.C 
Stewart  ^A.  A  C.  Black.)  Hr.  Stewart,  the  author  of 
Tht  Practical  Angler,  who  feela  aggriered  at  Mr.  Pen- 
nell'a  close  ImiUtTcm  of  hia  title,  baa  written  this  little 
boi^  to  point  oat  that  the  similarity  in  the  two  boaka  la 
cooflned  to  the  title-page,  aa  no  two  systems  of  By-dshiDg 
conld  be  more  distinct  than  those  recommendad  by  Hr. 
JPenBalland  ^^rnT*'fi 

UonanENT  ro  tbb  Socori. — A  marble  monument  by 
the  celebrated  sculptor,  Saraceili,  is  ahintly  to  be  erected 
at  Sieuna  in  memory  of  Lielius  and  Faostns  Socinns, 
nho  were  oativea  of  that  Italian  city.  This  tribute  has 
nothing  of  a  religious  movement  about  It:  it  i^  an  honour 
to  two  Italian  noblemen,  who  were  dEstinguiahcd  for  their 
learning  and  Tiitoes.  'Hie  Otholics  of  the  mmildpality 
irfSiennahaTBCDntribated  lOf.towardstbeezpense.  The 
Socinl  died  at  Zurich,  in  Switzerland,  and  are  beliered 
to  hSTo  been  bnriad  iti  tha  cathedral  tbtn,  but  the  pre- 
dae  spot  is  nnknown. 

Dkath  or  Mb.  Halxkit  or  tub  Adtocatks' 
LiBBABT,  EonrBiTBaH.— Not  only  the  prirate  Uenda  of 
tUa  aoeoDplislud  sdiakr,  bnt  all  stndants  of  biblia- 
graohj,  bare  sustained  a  great  loa*  by  his  death,  which 


tha  two  hondred  thoaaand  Ttrianea  onder  Ms  dunrge ; 
and  had  mwle  constderable  progrcaa  with  a  DletioaaiT 
of  Aaonrmeu  and  PsandoDyiDaBS  Bodo,  &c.,  whidt  h 
is  to  be  hoped  will  Bet  be  las*  to-ttw  laorid.  Hr.  Halkett 
was  an  occasional  aoobibstor  to  thasn  p^w,  mi  wa 
have  rectiTed  seretal  warai  tribates  to  bis  nnTatyiag 
courtesy,  whiob  was  no  Ie«  remarkaUe  than  bis  great 

Ik  onr  oUtnary  w«  bare  to  BOtioe  the  death  of  Hr. 
James  Whittaig,  a  gentleman  mea  wtdl  known  in  the 
prinHng  proffeaaion.  Ha  died  at  Tanaton  on  the  lOA  of 
tUt  month,  at  the  ripe  old  age  ef  mnetj-fbnr.  His  name 
will  be  temeoibcrad  by  many  in  eonnectien  with  TTle 
Atlat  newspaper— a  Journal  that  in  its  time  was  nuxit 
popniar  and  succesaful.  lie  was  an  elder  liveryman  of 
the  Stationers'  Company. 

Tbobk  who  have  just  read  tliv  artide  a  few  pages  for- 
ward lanle,  p,  870)  will  hear  with  surprise  and  regret 
that  the  writer,  Hs.  Henet  F.  HoLt,  whose  name  must 
be  Gunitiar  to  them  in  connecdon  with  Tie  Slocft  Awls, 
7^1!  Fabford  ffadoiBM,  &c,  died  OB  tha  16th  instant. 
.._    „ ,. of  AUwrt 


At  a  sale  of  old  tOvet  pUta  which  occurred  liet  week 
by  Hr.  Freyberg,  at  the  Belgraw  Auction  Hart,  two  ra- 
markable  old  Saxon  cupa  itf  carved  wood,  embedded  in 
ffllvBT,  height  aboBt  10  indies,  wiU)  handlea  and  iMise  of 
silver,  of  a  veiy  evly  data,  realised  S2f, 

SoHB  fine  specimen*  of  Bristol  china  were  sold  daring 
the  past  week  at  tha  Boonu  af  Hasan.  Sotbeby.  Wilkin- 
son, and  Hodce.  Tbare  wen  twaB^-aeven  lots,  which 
produced  in  the  aggregate  lfi62l.  lu.;  of  which  a  tea- 
pot given  to  Hrs.  Bnrke,  tba  wib  of  tbe  great  orator  and 
BUtesman,  bnaght  190'.,  and  a  mOb-Jug  of  the  same 
fabric  115(.  rMpeclively. 

London  and  Hiddlbsbk  AtieKx<HjOOTCAL  Societt. 
A  general  meeting  of  the  sodety  w31  be  held  at  the  hall 
of  the  LeatbersdlcTs'  Company,  St.  Helen's  Place,  on 
Thursday,  Hay  4,  when  the  foUewiug  papers  will  be 
read: — "Remarks  upon  the  Chartats,  ReoOTdB,Bnd  His- 
tory of  the  LealherseDers'  Company,"  by  W.  H.  Black, 
Esq.)  "The  Hoapilal  of  Le  Papoy,  Btohopsgate,"  by 
Bev.  T.  Hugo.  Numcroua  drawioga,  prints,  ftc,  at 
Leathersellets'  Hall  and  the  ndgbbonrbood,  frill  be  ex- 
hibited by  J.  E.  Gardner,  Esq.  The  society  will  then 
proceed  to  the  church  of  SL  Andrew  Cndenibaft,  wben 
the  following  papers  will  be  read; — "A  brief  Notice  of 
the  celebrated  painter,  Hans  Holbein,  as  a  parishioner  of 
St.  Andrew's  Dndershafl,"  by  W.  H.  BUck,  Esq. :"  Re- 
marks upon  the  Becoida  of  the  Church,"  by  W.H.  Overall. 
Esq.  From  thence  liie  aomety  will  go  to  the  church  of 
St.  Peter's,  Comhill,  where  the  rector,  the  Kev.  R.  Whit- 
tington,  U.A,  will  make  remarks  opon  the  history  of 
the  chnrch  and  tha  aichivea  of  the  paiish. 

Tbb  Briti^  Unseam  will  be  eloaed  from  Hay  1  to  7 
indodve. 

LlTEBARY   ISTKLWOKSCB.— English   Hfc   BBd    chaiaC- 

ttn  have  fanushad  many  InUreaUog  snhjeets  of  dlsciu- 
_!_  ._  r^__„„  f 1.. -"t-JHAbbs,  Bolwer, 


Byron,  Thackaray,  Wallar  Soott,  tlie  Pdnctaa  'Charlotte^ 
Tomer,  Stuart  Hill,  Carlyle,  D-lBBdi,Cebden,  Laid  Pair 
meiston,  have  stimnlatad  GaniMn  giBvily  and  tborongh- 
nass  to  mora  than  osual  UvelBeas  in  daaungwith  snbjwt* 
li*ing  and  oeting  in  a  land  agitated  ft  dots  than  moM 
COnUrieabytheconfllctlagcarrentaaf  pnblicUiban  ~ 
*' '-       Julian  SiAmidt  and  B  "      " " 


thna  disdnguiahet 
Chareit^lder. 


themselves  in  some  a 


DigiiizecbyV-jOOy  IC 


3d2 


JVOTJJiS  AND  QUERIES. 


[*"'3.Vn.  Apiiii,S9,7I. 


Sau  or  Home  bt  ms  omeat  Composebs  ai 
FORD. — VV<  aodenUnd  that  >  vtcf  choice  and  extenaiTe 
collection  oT  moaic  of  the  highest  cUh.  embracing  many 
Operas,  Anthem%  Ac,  by  the  flnt  Enaliih  and  Foreign 
Itatlaa,  with  some  mosie  and  songa  by  Tom  D'Urfey, 
wiii  shoitly  be  brought  to  the  hammer  by  Lsycock  of 

.  Oxford,  whose  abop  in  the  High  Street  is  well  known  to 
the  biblionumf:. 

Hb.  R.  Carruthers  of  iMVEHaRBS.— The  Senatiu 
of  the  Dnlrertitj  of  Edinburgh  has  nwlved  to  bealnw 
the  degraa  of  LL.D.  on  Hr.  Robert  Carrulben  of  the  Im- 
ptrntH  Oittritr,  in  recogoltioD  of  his  knowledge  of  and 

-HTviea  to  Engliih  lllentare.  So  aaya  Tit  ScoliAnian, 
to  whicb  we  veDtare  to  add  that  no  degtee  was  ever 
beUei'  deferred. 


fiotitt*  ta  Carxttpan'tttnU- 

T.  E.  (Dorbam.)  The  laiat  and  nott  condtnied  ac- 
CMat  ^Praxiltlts  end  Mi  worii  will  be  fotmd  in  Dr. 
j;attA'iDlclioiuii7ofGreek  and  Rumsii  Biagraphj,  i.e. 
"  Fraxiltltt." We  oonwl  tract  Bonfiaxtui  ai  a  iculp- 


EapSDABB^-/n  type. 

P.  T.—Hiu  our  ChrrttpoHdeiil  tm  llit  MS.  colttetioiu 
ofOu  ha*  Mr.  O.  Smith  I'u  tht  Briliik  AfiueuB  f 

Mr.    SuMtdl    Smilh't    addttu  ii  86,    SiAo    Squan, 

Stplia  to  olhtr  CorrapoadailM  in  wr  KCit. 

Errata.—*'^  S.  vil  p.  380,  col.  ii.  \iOi3,  for  "  Fiasier  " 
rtad  "  Fnser  "  ;  p.  884,  col.  1.  line  10  from  bottom,  for 
"  mandarloi "  rtad  ^  mnTderere." 

/*  ctnurmtnut  Ql  LU  oAaNlion  o/JJki  ihuhtjW  ITemtpap^  Stamp,  Uit 
BntiKrlH&i  Jbr moinfir^mnletl /rrtbt pul. dfrwl/m  llie PyMMrr 
linrlwhW iMffntrwrbr  iHtul.Jgr  ^ili  JfimlAi.BiU  U  HK.U.Un. 
tUad  affu.  U-MciliKll  wil  h  Bail  >••  Pvt  OJfpc  Order  faimililt  al  Uh 
Samtrta  Ham  PvM  (Mfe,  STfyro-r  af  Willuh  Q.  eaau.  a, 
WioLUHtc^SnaaT.  Btmxd,1v.c 


BT  DB.  LIONEL  S.  BEALE,  YJLS., 

Vital  Theories  tmd  Beligioua  Thoog^t : 

Whh  rirc  Coloand  Plum.  IlliutruUkff  (be  Amnfcmeat  cf  liTlAf 

Disease  QenoB.    Their  real  Nature. 


hi  PttbDlosr  of  ConbhtEDui 


Disease  O^mu.    Their  supposed  nature. 

Aji^OglBia  loiejUmaotu  vlth  Hn  Dnalnii,  moMnUDf  Cm 


IiiGe,  Matter,  and  Mind  j  or  Protoplasm. 


On  Eiduer  Diseases,  ITrianry  Deposits, 
and  Calonlous  Disorders ; 

K™?  *•    BmoMra,  DlsiHidi,  ud  Tnmtnieiit  of  PiteUT 

The  Plates  separately,  4IS  Biptrea,  Vit.    The  Text, 

pp.  fiOO,  ISi. 

FinRliTlioBiud.tM.    Flftr-^hlPtMM. 

The  17se  of  the  Miorosoope  in  FraoticAl 
Medioine. 

FnrmUtloHnudStiidiiidliUtdliiliit.  UiKhuluftd. 

of  the  Liver  and  their  Treat- 

1,  mmh  nUraCTL  of  Ihe  Aathn'i  Worfe  on  Ihi 


How  to  Work  with  tlie  Hiorosoope. 


s 


H.  ATLOTT  has  in  the  Preis  a  Catalogue  of 

,  ,   .  TUT  iBUnMnteECQBD-BtXO  BOOKS,  wirifthif  cfnn 
■Mn  or  SBUinl  Ftnou.  Bdenu,  Tbtoloar,   T^onwhr.  Voi- 

Md«i  W.  H.  ATUn-T.  Bmkallcr.  W.  Bt.  pml'i  Itofd,  IiUiwtoa. 
I(.B.-Eiil7  HiplliUlin  mr  tW  Cudlin  wUlSUnT^ 


afiflOn  Emgravingi,  a^itd //oa  the  acttuil  iJijecU,  all  of 
which  hmt  been  drawn  on  wood  by  the  aiUhiir  hisatlfor 
indir  hiiinmedialt  nptrmttndmct.    Mio^  lUutnitioMi 


art  Oihund. 


,(Jooglc 


4*  8.  Til.  ApniL  29,  71,] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


NE'W     BOOKS. 

Tliia  day,  In  2  vols,  crown  8vo,  price  31*. 

A  MEMOIR  OF  CHAELES  MAINE  TOUNO,   TRAGEDIAN. 

,  M.A,  Rector  onimiDgtoD.    Wi(b 
TblB  day,  Id  S  rois.  CTOvn  Sro,  priea  2U. 

LIFE  OF  ANTHONY  ASHLET  COOPER,  FIRST  EARL    OP 


rr.    HT,Chrlft!e  lino  DnIliiiiiTlilQmplicr.     Acute.  nLtlTBlnL  iMtmuk^^iittnoui.  ttrupaloaAjne 

MACMILLAN  &  CO.,  LONDON. 


'sffliKirSiaK.'iKs 


iWnt. 

in.-LXTTUlS  AND  TAPBRI  OF  . 
■.•C«JHorlfr.Wir'>Bdltliiii    '' 


BHILLIHarORD. 

of  Uu  -PBOMPTOBIUM  PAK- 


ILLU3TBATED    CATALOGUE. 


INTEENATIONAI.   BXHZBITZOIT. 
1871. 


MACMILLAN'S    MAGAZINE. 
Ho.  130. 


•-■»gffi,-SSASSr„ 

;S.'W5»ro^5ig6:^"£ 

l_"  DARWIHISli  AKU  RKLIOION." 

i.-- IsaaSB,"    BrFHEDERICK  WEDMOBE. 

«.-"AH  AOE  or  UBiD." 

'-"^ggS^'K.S'«O^D^^f"° 

'  OF  THE  UHRE."  Br 

HACUILLAN  &  CO 

LaadoD. 

qiHE  QENTLEStANB   MAGAZINE   FOE    MAY 

Oulh(C«d«Witt«n  t^Enilud— Ha,  II.    Bu  Jmuaa,    D;  OiMilfl 

BlcoiH  CclibiJUei_Hi>.  n.   far.  Nlfti'uu'nU'i   cXtij.     Br  B.  H. 

A  tV^ndilni  8«iit.    BTltiT.M.a.WUklDi,U.A. 


SOINS,— FOR  SALE,  b  eonsidenbla  nombei  of 
nrr  FIKE  ulimARE  SCOTTISH  OOIKS.ttaPnHie'  sT* 
Icctur  IB  SniHuid  nllnialAlu  tlupnn'irAcUt.lnSMU 
ofHobirtlllMJunH  III.  HidVirilwr.'nMVIuQZlSlTiua 
>  Putoii  G  ulnn  oTUu  PnUDdtr.  H  J«H VUI.  Mf iA]&  gJr  tou 
Culialt  Mint.  bdNih  u4 tmnl^unim at IblMtam^S 

■""""■  :,7edb,C00glc 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4^  S.  VIL  Arsu.  S»,  71. 


&^ 


THE    ABI-^OUBSAL 


L  Ul  UALADE  DI&aiHAIRE,  tlUr  i.  SOUK 
n.  "A  BABY  WAi8I*IFWa."«««rF.  W.I 
Tti.  BHomBSHIHO,  troB  Ika  Onav  >r  J.  Uwi. 


Laadoo  I   VIUTUIS  k  CO..  M.  In  Eul. 


HHAELES  WALTER,  i.  BeU  Yard,  Temple  Bar, 


rpHE  BOOKWORM,  prints  at  260  Copies  onW,  is 


Tor  B«le- 

TJOYDELL'S  COLLECTION   OF    PRINT8.  from 

X>    PlBort.  piioWl  (M  th*    BinitHJ  of  iUnWiMliig  Um  Jf™"*; 


■^  RAND  PUMP  ROOM  HOTEL,  BATH,  oppMita 

T     Uh   ibbw   Chnnh,     TIBST^XASa    iOOOimODAMOS. 
run  JllM«I  W«ttr  ^^^  HAWKBSWOBTH,  UUa^nH. 


TLjfi.  HOWARD,  Smgeon-DentUt,  63,  Tleot  8tre6t, 


r3  FOBTBATT  COLLECTOBS,— Johk  Sttosot 
DCliar  BtwvfH]  FHtnltB  In 
BVSE-I  cTtaLOODE,!?  fK 


PABTBISGE    AHD    COOPXK, 

MANDyACrUEISO  STATIONER 

191,  FIset  StTMt  (Comer  of  CluiiceT7  Lane). 


,■  KITKLOPa.  vtth  Bllll  tuv  FU^  U.  MI )« 


TBrnDUKEpm 


noiS,  te  HoBH  tr  FortnOiimi»«<i»o«  (ti* 


b.  M.  ps  IMO.  PiMi^  Bual  Cmt  Om  tapwnt  fr«  b 
>liiiiii(nBw,ni>  InUn.  ttm  >i.i  thm  lilivi,  ftua  rf .  BndiM 
—  Adilna  SlH.  tram  >l 


KmUgdgnthaaii 
M.  Fonn^Bsln.  WiIMm  Ohm  VV 


"OLD  ENGLISH-   FURNITURE. 


COIiItXnSON  ftnd  LOOK  (late  Heniog), 
OABINST  MAXEBS, 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  E.C    EBtablished  178S, 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANGING8. 

ImlUtlni  d(  an  Did  BBOCADEB.  DAJtASKS.  ml  OOBEUH 
lAFBSTBIES. 

COH^LrSBOS  and  lAOK  (late  Herring), 
DECOBATOBS. 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  LONDON.  EstabUalied  ITS?. 


TTOBNB'S  POMPEIAN   DECORATIONS. 
ROBERT  HOKNE, 

nOtrSE  PJSCOBATOBmd.PAraB-HAJtOIRQ 


MHiiUtjBtTthtKDEOfluIr'  ) 


*«S.Tn.MAS6,'710 


NOTES  AHD  QUERIES. 


383 


LONDON,  BATUSDAT,  HAT  t,  1S;1. 


C0NTKNT8.— H*  176. 

NOTBS:  — Trpogniiblad  Brron  la  the  "Fierie  Queena.** 
3S3— Poorteen  linf  omlttnd  rnim~Comu*,"aM— Tbe 
WUl  otBllubeth  Howard  or  T>lbot?  /i.  —  Uuuolnim 
■nil  Town  UiurkulkN^  IBS  —  Hoewth's  Prim  of  Lord 
LotM  —  Hemorlxl  Terscs  —  Burpi  —  Arrei,  Surname— 
Cbauoer:  "After  oon":  " Btoor "  —  G«i»™tloDi  wltbtn 

.  IMu  Htmorj  —  Catutorcd  OrltloUci  —  Hanor  Houaea  of 
HerafoidStaire,  SSi. 

QUBBIHSt  — SUffiird  of  Blatfaerwlck.  Oretton,  Badbun, 
ftc,  WT  —  Baltad  wanted  —  Bell-rii^liiK,  Ac  —  DaU- 
catloD  ot  Cburohaa—  Tbe  Barl  ot  Derbr— Ocoim  Bd- 
wardi,  AJi.  IHB— B^eram  br  Stmnel  Bonn  — "Poi'i 
Hartjra,"  a  Satin  --  Dr.  Wm.  Elnc  —  Lord  Elngaton  and 
Oldbaoi  —  Linn  on  UMbemMica  —  Haldenwell,  naar 
Loutb  —  Hanuurlpt  Poam  —  UshtIIi  or  MaiinUi  —  P«dl- 
craM  of  Pounder/  Kin  —  Planrd  —  Portrait  of  Chief 
Baron  Ord  — Pranra  for  tbe  Dead  —  Fampi  -- "  Tbe  Hald 
or  Ibpe"— Old  Sootoh  Nawipapan— "Btreak  ot  SUtct 

Ok"*— HiHllah  VmUkstlon 


ii  — TbeComptatioiior  Bt.  Paul'a,  SM  —  G^na- 
'i  "  Bloa  Bar."  Sn  —  Wbr  d<m  ■  newlj  Born 


In  tbe  W 


BnglUb  Prinomea— <Hd  Sonea  and  Balladi -- -■  I^amHinr 
Boiatliu"— "Tbe  Bun  nerar  aele  on  tbe  BrlUah  Do- 
miniona"  —  ODbra;  Borton —  "  Heart  ot  Hearle": 
-Light  ot  Llibto"  —  SemarkaUe  AHar  Blab—"  La  Belle 
name  niia  Marcl " — A  Toadatone  Rlnr-Kuo-dbLl  Qoerlea 
'" Supmum  Jul,  fnmma  lajuria "  —  "  Tbe  DerUbeata 


bis  Wire  "— Arma  of  Obarkmagne — "  < 


i"-Mo» 


«0M. 

TTPOORAPmCAL  EEBOfiS  IN  THE  "FAEBIE 
QUEENE." 
Id  the  Inboduction  to 
tor— A  book  which  I  wil  , 
hftndB  of  eTOiT  student  of  our  elder  poetry — I 
haTS  corrected  eeTerkl  enors  in  this  poem,  uid, 
for  the  benefit  of  future  editors,  I  will  here  cor* 
rect  the  remuning  enors  in  that  poem — the  proofs 
of  which  the  poet  seenu  to  have  read  most  negli- 
gently, if  be  read  them  at  ell:   for  the  errors, 
even  the  most  glaring  ones  in  the  first  edition  (^ 
the  first  part,  are  neariy  all  to  be  found  in  the 
eecond.    I  make  the  foUoWing  correctioDs  :  — 
"  In  this  grmt  pssnoD  of  nnwooted  lust, 
Or  wonted  fear  of  doing  ooght  unus." — L  1,  i9. 
Here  we  hare  in  "Or,"  1  thinli,  an  instance  of 
the  usual  confuson  of  or  and  and.    See  my  final 
note  on  Hilton's  Sam.  Agomuta. 

"  niio  told  hsr  all  that  Ml  in  jonnur  u  she  went." 
L3,32. 
For  "her"  we  riionld  probably  >ead  Aim,  as 
e  chasse  ia  not  nnnsnal ;  or  we  might  read  "all 
lat  her.^' 

—LB,  11. 


that 

"  Bj  her  fleroe  aerTUit  (bH  of  kin^y 
"  :^"  should  be  S«i. 
"  On  top  of  green  Sdinb  ill  aloD«."--L  7, 32. 
SeKnu,  which  has  baffled  all  the  critici,  is 
lut  a  printer's  blunder  for  CylUm*.    So 


lothing  but 


in  Chaucer's  SitigMi  Tele  we  hare  "Setheron" 
for  Cytheron.  This  is  a  proof  of  the  evil  of  read- 
ing by  the  eye  only :  for  had  any  critic  read  the 
passage  out,  he  would  probably  have  been  struck 
Dy  the  nmilarity  of  soond  in  Selinis  and  Cyllenus. 

"  TtuU  nunr  errant  knisbta  bave  tout  fordone." 

U.  1, 61. 

"  Have  "  should  be  haih. 

"  loSamed  was  to  follow  beanty's  ctuue."— ii.  3,  7. 

As  the  rimes  are  day,  tnay,  ditmaif,  tbe  poet's 
word  must  haTe  been  rt^,  not  "chase."  See  i.  2, 
38;  iii.8,  22. 

"  And  recompnued  them  with  *  better  acorae." 

ii.  9,  SE. 

"Them"  should  be  Aim. 

"  For  no,  no  nmal  fire,  no  nana]  rage."— ilL  2, 87. 

Perhaps  the  first  "  no  "  should  be  htow. 

"  Or  other  ghaatlj'  spectacle  diimiyed." — iif.  3,  60. 

We  should  perhaps  read  of,  ca"hy  other." 

"  And  comlDff  to  tbe  place  where  all  in  Eore." 

iil.  4,  Bl. 

Perhaps  the  poet  wrote  eonrni. 

"  In  tiut  aame  garden  all  the  goodly  floweia" 

iii.e,80. 
From,  not  "  la,"  is  the  proper  word. 
*■  Or  sent  into  the  changefol  world  again." — ill.  S,  38. 
Here  i^ain  we  have  "  Or  "  for  A-ad. 
-  Few  trickling  tears  ahe  B<Alr  forth  let  (i>U.''—lil.  7, 9. 
Perhaps,  as  the  next  line  seems  to  intimate, 
"Few"  should  be  Two. 

"  Who  lomi  wUl  daoeire."— liL  9, 81. 

"  Who  "  should  be  Whom. 

"  That  nudest  manj'  ladles  dear  lament." — iii.  9.  36. 

For  "  madeet"  we  should  probably  read  mmfe  so. 

■■  Thore  a  hoga  heap  of  ^gnlfii  did  oppreaa." 

For  "singulfi"  we  might  read  laigutU. 
"  Then  Tirtoe'i  might,  and  value's  coofidenee." 

ui.  11,  It 

I  would  read  valaar'i  for  "  value's." 
"  Bmtb  in  hia  boasted  fan,  or  lila  bright. 
When  her  diaoolooied  bow  ahe   spreads   tlimigh 
heaven  hight," — iil.  11,  47. 
In  the  last  line  we  should  read  "heaven's 
highl,"  as  in  iL  10,  2,  and  elsewhere. 

"  And  fading  vital  powers  gan  to  fade." — iii.  IS,  !I. 
Here  "fading"  should  probably  ^faiiittg. 
"  Dewed  with  h«r  drops  of  bonnty  sovereign." 

Iv.  8,  38. 
For  "her  "it  might  be  better  to  read  the. 
*■  So  did  the  other  knights  and  sqniies  which  him  did 

We  should  read  tiem  for  "him." 
"  In  which  he  fimnd  great  i 

"He"  should  be  fAsy. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIE& 


[4"  S.  VII.  Mat  6.  Tl. 


"  The  Clc,  Um  Wen,  the  Qouit,  tlu  Stnre,  tba  RavDc" 

iv.  11.  U. 
Wfl  Bhonld  read  (Trout  or  Qramt, 
"  For  wlglit  agilnat  hit  pomr  tfaaoualvM  to  rear." 

Y.  1, 24. 
We  Bhould,  of  course,  read  wigkU. 
"  And  all  men  wagbt  tlidi  own,  end  none  no  more^" 
T.I,  8, 
Ferbapa  we  aliould  read  "no  one  more." 
"  And  now  the  knighb,  being  anived  near. 
Did  beat  apiHi  the  gates  to  enter  In  : 
And  at  tlie  poiter,  aoorning  tliein  to  tvw." — t.  4,  87. 
Here,  either  "near"  or  "few"  most  be  wieag. 
Chureh  reads  n*w  Tor  "  near,"  and  ww  seems'  to 
be  osad  in  tbe  sense  of  doae  in  i.  6,  38,  lod  iv. 
1,  38.     We  ought  also,  for  "  so  few,"  read  to  fear 

"  But  took  ber  steed,  and  thereon  monnting  Ugbt." 

T.  6, 36. 

So  would  seem  better  than  "  Bui" 
"  The  rascal  mmj  ssod  thej  oTsrtbreir."— t.  II,  &9. 
"They  "should  be  As. 

"  Whoae  ererj  act  and  dSed  that  he'dJd  aay." — ri.  2,  B. 

The  edition  of  1609  reads  "  deed  and  word." 

In  mv  Shahu^eare-Bxpotitor  (p.  62^   I  have 

shown  toat,  in  iii.  12, 42,  "  found  delajea  "  should 

be  "  found  allayed,"  and  have  explained  the  cause 

()f  tbe  error.    The  rery  same  error  occurs  in  — 

"  A  gentle  spirit  that  llghtli 

Hot  Titan'i  beam*."— P™ 


"wiUmn'd  Drima"  for  "twilled 
len^ea,  iv.  1. 

As  I  here  conclude  my  remarks  on  the  Faerie 
Qu«ene,  I  beg  to  remind  the  reader  thftt  he  will 
find  two  other  articles  '  on  it  in  4""  S.  iv.  168, 21 1 , 
and  to  advise  him  to  read  what  1  have  written  on 
the  "  Life  of  Spenser  "  in  Fratar't  Mngaane. 

Here  then  I  conclude  my  self-imposed  and,  I  hope, 
not  quite  useless  task  of  emending  and  explnin- 
ing  where  necessaiy  the  tests  of  our  three  greatest 
poets.  To  these  I  have  added  (in  "  N,  &  Q.") 
Ben  Jonson  and  others ;  and  I  have  by  me  copies 
of  Bell's  Chaucer,  Qtfibrd's  Matmtger,  and  Dyce's 
Beaamotd  and  FleCcAer,  in  which  Ihave  corrected 
the  metre  throughout  and  the  sense  when  neees- 
hat;.  These  I  hope  will  come  into  tbe  hands  of 
those  who  will  make  a  right  use  of  them,  ud 
give  me  any  credit  I  may  seem  to  deserve.  My 
literary  life  has  now  nearly  reached  its  close :  for 
owing  to  the  decay  of  tte  two  noblest  of  the 
senses,  reading  and  writing  are  to  me  now  almost 
irksome  acts,  and  conversation  is  gradually  be- 


*  In  the  article  on  the  "Irish  RivErs"  I  have  given 
tloid  River  as  the  tranalstion  of  On»m ;  bat  I  And  that, 
Oir  U  tha  Irish  for  fane — a  plant  which  probably  creir 
■hnndanlly  on  the  banks  at  the  Dodder,  eapecialTj  in 
the  upper  part  of  iu  coarse. 


mie.    Still,  being  free  &om  disease 
bear  up  cheerfnlly,    saying   irith 


coming  thi 
and  pain, 
Horace — 

**  Dsnun,  Kd  lavini  fit  patientia. 
Qidcqnld  corrigere  eat  ne^" 
and  with  Malherbe  — 

■■  TonMr  ee  qne  Dies  vsut  eat  t>  sanle  adence 
Qni  nona  met  en  repoa." 

Tbos.  Exishxlbt. 


FODBTKEN  LINES  OMITTED  FEOM  -  COMUa" 
A  mighty  fnas  was  made  the  other  day  about 
some  mediocre  verau  which  cartun  people  thought 
might  possibly  be  Hilton's,  and  over  tbe  discovny 
of  which  there  was  a  wonderful  flourish  of  trom-- 
pets.  I  beg  to  call  the  attention  of  these  gentle- 
men to  fourteen  noble  lines,  nndoubtadly  the 
compontion  of  the  illustrious  poet,  which  have 
been  in  print  for  nearly  seventy  Tsara,  but  whidi 
were  certainly  unknown  to  Sir  Efferton  Brydra 
and  Dr.  Hitfoid,  and  to  all  the  other  recent  edi- 
tors of  the  poet's  works.  They  an  found  in  tbe 
original  HS.  of  the  glorious  mseqae  of  Conau. 
and  follow  after  the  first  four  line^  as  printed 
below.  In  the  MS.  they  are  crossed  throu^  with 
a  pen,  evidentiy  to  point  out  that  they  were  to 
be  omitted  in  the  representation.  Tbe  opening 
speech,  even  after  this  ezdsion,  is  inconveniently 
long  for  the  stage.  F.  GcNimiaHAiL 


Eternal  mace  groir,  and  hyadntb, 
And  fraita  of  golden  rind,  on  whoMfair  tree 
Tha  scaly  bamaiaed  dragon  ever  keeps 
His  onencbanted  eye :  around  the  verge 
And  sacred  limits  of  this  blisiful  isle, 
The  ieslons  Ocean,  that  old  river,  winds 
His  fsi^itanded  srms.  till  with  stMp  (all 
Half  his  waste  flood  the  wild  Atlantic  fills. 
And  half  the  alow  unfathomed  atygian  pool. 

With  dlatant  worlds,  and  strange  removed  climei 
_Yet  thence  1  come,  and  olt  from  theecs  behdd 
'Above  tbe  smoke  and  atir  of  this  dim  spot, 

Which  men  call  Earth,  du:.,  &c." 


THE  WIU.  OF  ELIZABETH  HOWAKD  OB 

TALBOT? 

In  ihe  Ttdamgnta  Vetuita,  p.  483,  is  tbe  will  of 

Eliubeth,  Duchess  of  Norfolk,  said  to  be  "her 

third  will  mnde  after  her  husband  became  Duke 
of  Norfolk  "  ;  i.  e,  Thomas  Howard,  second  duke 
of  that  family.  Should  this  not  Ik,  ur  is  it  not 
the  vrill  of  Mtizabdh  Talbot,  daughter  of  John, 
first  Eial  of  Shrewsbury,  by  hit  teccnd  marriage, 
and  widme  of  John  Mojrlaiiy,  last  Duke  of  Nor^L 


*•  a.  TII.  Mat  6.  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


385 


folk  of  tbat  line,  ob.  1476  P  Her  only  child  Ann, 
contracted  to  lUcfaud  Duke  of  Yoilc,  son  of  £d- 
\rwA  IV.,  died  veij  joung;,  and  thos  the  Howards 
came  in. 

In  this  will  aha  detirea  "  to  be  buried  in  the 
NuTiB  Quiie  of  tbe  Minories  without  Aldffato  in 
London,  nieh  unto  the  place  where  Anne  Mont- 
dfomeiT  is  buried;"  ana  one  of  het  eiecutora  ia 
"  Mr.  John  Talbot,  Doctor  of  Phydck." 

In  the  will  of  "  Vmfray  Talbott,  Knight,  Mar- 
cbal  of  the  towne  of  Calia,"  proved  Not.  U, 
UJM:— 

••  Itm.  I  baqDatb  m.T  place  at  London  ttoa^ag  in 
tbe  pariih,  of  Sainct  AndTaw*  with  the  tcolktclei  there' 
vnto  belongiag  to  b«  ■moitsj'nd  to  the  church  of  Saint 
Andrew  tb>rw<  to  baoa  an  honest  pmts  to  pisj  for  the 
■oale  of  my  lord  mj  fader,  my  lady  my  moder,  and  for  the 
propiW  of 'my  bodv,  my  muter  Eliiibeth  duches  of  North- 
nlk,  and  for  the  eonle  of  Jolui  Wenlot  and  EUsibMh  bi> 
Wilis,  and  for  my  eoole  and  for  the  wnle  of  Jane  my  wife 
ppetnally  to  ensure." 

In  the  will  of  "Dame  Jane  Talbott,  widows, 
Into  the  wif  of  S*  Humfrer  Talbott,  Knvght," 
dated  Jan.  10, 1604  :— 

"  Hy  body  to  be  boried  w'  in  tbe  inner  ohoer  of  the 
ehorcha  of  the  Hynoriei  w'  onto  Algats  of  London  njgh 
Uu  place  and  lapnltare  when  the  bodye  of  Miistrei 
Anne  IfongmnMy.  late  the  wif  of  John  Moogomery, 
Sqnyer,  naUllie  and  y>  buried  w^  In  tbe  ume  qneie." 
And  also— 

"And  in  lykewiM  T  beqaeth  vnto  H'  John  Talbott, 
^— -  of  ph'-^"--   ' '  '-'-'-'-  — -  -'"-  --'-■ 

,       J*  liij' 

"  And  of  t)  score  Area  to  be  taken  owte  of  tbe  tj  c 
mrca  aboue  rebenid  (her  may  bet  provided  ■  csonvenyent 
pneat  by  tb«  diacreeon  of  the  aaid  execnto"  to  ayng 
PpetnaU v  Ibr  the  aoole  of  me  and  of  my  hniband  S' Ham- 
fiwf  Talbott,  and  for  the  aoolea  of  Jidin  Champemon  and 
EluabMh  hla  wif  myfader  aoil  moder,  and  for  the  lonlea 
of  my  nuter  lady  BUuncbe  WlUoughbr,  davght'  vnto 
-"      -IdJobD  and  Elizabatb,  and  for  all  thdre  ahildeifl 


peroua  aitata,  and  alio  for  the  aoulea  of  tbe  rlzht  noble 
lorde  John  erte  of  Shrooibaiy,  and  of  the  lady  Hargarete 


0  for  the  aouln  of  tbe  rlzht  noble 

hrooibaiy,  aodof  thalady  Hargarete 

his  wilfo  b^n^  Elder  and  moder  vnto  the  laid  Elizebalh 
docbias  of  SmS,  and  vnto  the  nid  Br  Hamltey,  and  for 
tbe  nnln  of  alt  tbaira  dtlldert." 
The  ducheaa  is  one  of  the  executon. 

I  hope  I  have  not  been  too  co^oua  in  mj  ex* 
tracts,  but  I  thouriit  the  enor  oi^ht  to  be  cor- 
rected, and  I  think  the  most  fittins  place  ia  in 
"N.&Q."  G.J.H. 


MADSOLEUU  AND  TOWN  UNABEULLBE.* 
"  Annihcr  naarkaUa  boiWng  Booth  of  the  dty,  and 
between  it  and  the  rivet,  la  the  tomb  of  Anfr-Kalli,  ae 
called,  conoemlnK  which  la  tba  foOowlDg  ptqnlsr  etiny : 
An^Ealli  (Anargdl,  piobahly,  or  the  pomeeraoata  blot- 
aom)  waa   a  vmy  bandeoma  yoa^,  and  the  &vontita 


attendant  of  an  emperor  of  Hlndnattfo.  Whentheprinca 
wonld  be  in  company  with  the  ladlee  of  U«  bitam,  the 
&Tonrito  page  was  not  exdaded.  It  happened  tbat  one 
day  tbe  emperor.  Haled  with  bia  females  in  an  apwt- 
ment  lined  with  lookin|[.^aMee,  beheld  from  the  re- 
fleclad  appearance  of  Aniir-Kalli,  who  etood  bddnd  him, 
that  he  iTniled.  The  monarch's  eonttmctioD  of  tbe  intent 
of  the  smile  proved  melancholy  to  the  smiler,  who  was 
ordered  to  be  buried  alive.  Anir-Kaili  was  aceoidlngly 
placed  in  an  npright  position  at  tbe  appointed  tpot,  ud 
was  bnilt  around  with  bricks,  while  an  immense  snper- 
Btructare  was  raised  over  the  acpnicbre,  the  expense  of 
which  was  defrayed,  as  tradition  reblea,  hy  tbe  sale  of 
one  of  his  bangles."— Viwnirei  ia  BdbcAuldn,  Afgkimt- 
tan,  and  thi  Patg-Oi,  bg  a>arh$  Jfouoa,  Eiq^  1S12, 

The  Emperor  Jah£n-gir  having  died  at  tbe  end 
of  Safsr,  A.H.  1037  (a.ii.  1627  •),  at  Eijor,  fifty 
miles  south  by  west  from  Sirinagur,  the  capital  oi 
Eaahmfr,  bis  widow,  the  celebrated  Nur  Jah£u, 
or  Nur  Mahal  (whose  original  name  of  Mher-ul- 
Niasa,  or  the  aun  of  women,  is  corrupted  into 
Meher  Metiia  by  Herbert),  carried  the  corpse 
away  to  Lihor,  when,  having  interred  the  re- 
mains of  hei  husband  in  her  own  pleasure- 
grounds  on  the  west  bonk  of  the  river  BAvi,  she 
erected  a  stately  building  remarkable  for  itachast« 
style  of  architecture  on  the  spot,  two  miles  west 
from  L£hor,  where  the  town  Shfih  Bers,  or  the 
EioK's  Tent,  has  since  been  established. 

The  Sh&h  Dera,!  or  laat  resting-place  on  earth 
of  tbe  Emperor  Jah&n-gir,  the  conqueror  of  the 
world,  considered  by  the  natives  of  Hindustan  as 
one  of  their  four  most  wonderful  works  of  archi- 
tecture, ia  situated  four  miles  from  An&r-Kalli 
(meaning  the  [pomeBTanate-bud)  on  the  oppoait* 
side  of  the  river ;  and  the  fact  of  the'same  locally 
for  tbe  interment  of  both  having  been  selected 
tends  very  much  to  stiengthen  the  grounds  upoa 
which  Donna  Juliana  or  Anfir-Ealli,  the  favourits 
wife  of  Akbar,  is  supposed  to  have  been  the 
mother  of  Selim,  afterwards  Jahan-gir:  the 
scandalous  stories  about  her  mentioaed  by  Roe 
and  Herbert,  together  with  the  fable  by  which, 
after  chaogins  her  sex,  she  is  said  to  have  been 
buried  alive  by  the  humane  and  tender-hearted 
Akbar,  having  apparently  been  invented  by  parties 
opposed  to  hsi  son's  succession. 

R.  B.  W.  £iL». 

StarcFOBS.  near  Exeter. 


HoeiKTs's  Fkimt  or  Losd  LovaT.— ^Tmeler 
and  others  in  describing  this  print  tell  us  that  it 
represents  him  "is  the  act  of  counting  the  rebel 
forces  with  bia  finite  "—an  occupation,  it  always 
seemed  to  me,  quite  at  variance  with  the  expres- 
sion of  the  face,  which  is  rather  that  of  a  man  tell- 
ing a  good  stray.    This  latter  view  is  butie  out 


*  MmmUMab  Al-Lubot,  by  EbiS  Khin  (Persian  text) ,  ^ 
t  Mbbboo-s  B<a«*vUn,  L  113. 


NOTES  AND  QtTERIES. 


[4» S. VII.  Mats, TL 


bv    tiie  following    lettsr   firam  tiu  Bsr.  Wm. 
Hum  to  Mtb.  Huris : — 

"  Grojvenot  Squire,  Ang.  88^  1746. 
"  Pni7  sxcQM  my  »anding  yoa  such  «  very  groUsqin 
'—:e«»Uia  inclosed.     UisrMlly • ■■' 


It  ia  aettlj  enoiigli,etdied.  Hosarth  t«olc  the  piins  to 
go  to  8L  Alban'a  tho  evening  Lord  Lorat  came  thither 
on  his  iTii;  fcom  Scotland  to  the  Tower,  on  porpoee  to 
get  B  bir  view  ol  hia  lordship  before  he  was  locked  up  : 
and  this  he  obtained  with  a  greater  ease  than  could  wdl 
be  expected ;  for,  upon  sending  in  hii  name  and  (he 
enand  he  cama  aboat,  the  old  lord,  fai  from  dlqilewed, 
immediately  bad  him  in,  gave  him  a  salntc,  and  made 
him  sit  down  and  sap  with  him,  and  talked  a  good  deal 
my  (MetioBily,  so  that  Hogarth  had  all  the  lelaare  and 
onportimltj  he  could  posably  wish  Ut  have  to  take  off 
fala  ftaCurea  and  countenance.  The  portrait  yon  have 
here  may  be  oonsidered  u  an  original.*  The  old  lord  ii 
represented  in  the  Teiy  attitude  be  was  in  while  telling 
Bogirtii  and  the  company  sotne  of  bis  adventDiei." — A 
Senu  ofLttlen  of  tJit  Finl  Earl  of  Malmttbuni,  Ift^ 
iig  hla  Grandson,  the  Earl  of  Halmeab«ry,  1S7" 

At  p.  200  of  ToL  i.  the  editor  has  OTeriooked 
m  misprint.  The  well-known  nlderman  Trecothic 
i*  haidlj  recognisable  as  "  Iieeodiie."  Jaxdbb. 
Ukhokui,  Vbbseb. — In  a  paper  on  "  AJmft' 
nacs"  contributed  to  XacmUan't  Magtabie  in 
Januanr,  1863,  Ur.  Thomas  Wright,  F.3.  A.,makefl 
the  following  statement : — 

*■  It  i>  in  Winder's  Alttanac  for  1638,  printed  at  Cam- 
bridge that  we  tint  find  the  now  well-known  popnlar 
memorial  verses,  diSMng  only  allghllj  in  Uio  wwding  :— 
"'  April,  Inne,  and  September 
Thirty  daita  have,  as  NoveailMr : 
Gch  month  else  doth  nerer  vary 
From  thirty-one.  save  February  ( 
Which  twenty-eight  doth  still  conflna. 
Save  on  le^-year,  then  twenty-nine." 
Mr.  Wright  seems  to  be  in  error  here,  for  in  a 
copy  of  Grdton'e  Abridgemad  of  the  Chroniclet  of 
Snaianile,  d&ted  1670,  and  certainly  published 
before  the  end  of  the  cenhirj,  I  find  the  following 
lines,  which  do  not  SSet  train,  those  in  popular 
UM  except  in  the  omission  of  le&p-jeu : — 
"Thirty  d^ei  hath  KoTembei^ 
April,  June,  and  September ; 
February  bath  xxTiiJ  alone. 
And  all  the  rest  hne  xzzi." 

W.  J.  Lomx. 

BuBHS. — Ten  jeais  ago,  one  of  jour  corre* 
spondents  elidted  certain  fine  etonxas  which  had 
"  eacaped  the  notice  of  all  the  ncent  sditon  of 
Bonu*  FbeiTu"  (S«'  S.  xL  S07).  I  wiah  to  call 
attentioD  to  a  atereotj'ped  blunder  perpetrated  by 


all  theoe  editon,  BO  &t  aa  I  know,  in  "  Auld  Lang 
Sjne."    Thus  — 

"  We'll  tak  a  richt  gudt-nrillU  amtcU,"— 

is  inrariablj  printed  "gude  wiffie-waught." 

Now  it  mav  be  excusable  in  Mr.  Micawher  to 
be  ignorant  01  the  nature  of  powons;  but  an  editor 
of  Bnros  should  know  that  gude-wilUe  or  gude- 
vSkl  (vide  Jamieaon,  tub  voce)  means  good-willed 
or  cordial,  and  umncU  a  draoghtj  and  "gude- 
willie  waucht"  means  a  hearty  drink;  while 
"  gude  willie-wau^t "  has  no  meaning  whatever. 
Erery  Scolchsian  to  whom  I  have  mentioned 
this  has  rec^Ted  it  with  aurprise,  and  I  myself 
long  blindly  accepted  the  error,  which  needs  only 
to  be  pointed  out  in  "  N.  &  Q."  that  it  may  tw 
corrected  in  future.  W.  T.  M. 

AiKXB,  SuBMAMB. — A  Steord  ofSte  Detaendait* 
of  C^tmn  Jolm  Ajfr*t,  ^  In  a  review  of  thia 
work,  which  appeared  in  The  Stmld  end  Omita 
hgitt  for  October  lest,  the  w 


*  Lord  UalmedmrT.tiieeditor  of  his  ancestor's  interest^ 
ing  eorreepDndence,  here  makes  a  mistake.  Hs  says  in 
a  noea  "mia  portrait  ia  lost,"  evidently  aapposing  that 
HogartVs  orisinal  draming  waa  fhrwarOed  to  Hia,  Har- 
ris, wbereaa  llr.  Hani*  expressty  states  that  ha  sends  an 


might  well  be  called  by  Mr.  Harrii  "  an  cngiDaL" 


I  rnlgbt  WeU  be  ciUed  t>y  Mr 


Ayiea,  there  can  be  n»  doubt.  Is  merely  a  parvervoa 
or  oormptiDa  of  Syre,  or  It  Egr,  a  naoM  diatuiguialiiag 

the  etdcet  son  or  heir  of  a  hmity In  other  in~ 

stances  the  eldest  son  was  dengnated  as  li  Byrt,  and  the 
yoonger  as  /e  Fretc,  whence  the  common  names  of  Eyre 
and  Ayra,  Frere  and  Friar;  foriBBiiiiu*  not  taiciMde Ol* 
latter  could  be  deeoBoded  from  a  holy  friar '. " 

On  the  other  hand,  however,  it  ought  to  be 
borne  in  mind  that  uie  marriage  of  priests  ia 
meiiti(»)ed,aa  oneof  the  corruptionB  of  the  Church 
in  JSnglaud  in  their  tinie,  by  our  old  chroniclera 
(seeBohn's  Series,  Matthew  Paris),  and  both 
Hallam  and  Sharon  Turner  notice  the  fact.  Thia 
being  the  caae,  it  doee  not,  after  all,  seem  unlikely 
that  these  uzoiioua  priests  originated  many  of  our 
peculiar  sumanias.  Sp. 

Cbavuek:  "Aftkeook":  "Stoos."— 

"  Hia  breed,  hia  ale,  waa  alWK  after  oon." 

Morris,  Prolcgut,  L  Ml. 

This  "after  oon  "  pnxiled  me  for  some  tim% 
and  may  pntde  otiiera.  It  means  "  alw^e  after 
one  kind,  always  alike."  In  the  Sm^*  Tal» 
(L  S23J  we  have— 

"  'That  lord  bath  litel  of  diacrftdoon 

But  wayeth  pride  and  hamUeiLesse  nfter  eon." 

"  His  lordes  sobeep,  iiia  neet,  and  hia  dayerie^ 
His  Bwyn,  his  hors,  hia  (tosr,  and  his  puUria, 
Was  holly  Id  this  reaves  go  ven^nge." 

iVofcs«,L598. 
The  dossary  of  Morris'^  Aldine  interprets 
"steers.  Is  not  this  wrong P  In  this  sense  it 
would  be  a  re^tition  of  "neet "  in  the  line  above ; 
4uid,beyond  this,  dDee"Btoor  "ever mean  "ateeia" 
anywheie  elseP  It  seems  to  mean  simply  store 
(which  Tyrwhitt  &  Lansdowne  MS.  read).  Com- 
pare Wife  of  Bath'e  (Her  Prologue,  L  30S) — 

"Ba^bymyfkjl  I  trid  of  it  no  stoon"  1^ 

JOHX  A)>IIIi;:i!  I C 
LlttlehamptoD,  Sossex. 


Rnatington,  D 


**S.Vn.  Mat  6, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES, 


387 


Qekeb^tions  within  i.iTiNa  Mbhobx. — My 
father,  Jonathnn  Couch,  who  contributed  to  the 
pagee  af'ii.  &Q."  under  the  ngnature  of  Vidbo, 
au  this  entry  in  a  MS.  history  of  his  family.  I 
must  premise  that  at  the  time  of  this  note  he 
was  eeveuty-tito  years  of  age,  and  had  spent  all 
the  time  between  hia  pupUlaKa  and  death  at  Fol- 
peno  in  the  practice  of  medicute : — 

"  I  have  (biB  daj  atteiided  the  birib  at  a  child,  which 
U  tba  lixlb  gengntion  I  htrs  kaowD  fkmiUarl;  both  on 
the  fathei'a  and  the  matber'a  aide,  and  four  of  these  gene- 
rations I  have  attended  in  childtorth." 

Then  follow  the  namea.      Thoius  Q.  Couch. 

UiriDiORBD  C&iTidsK. — Ab  a  pendant  to  W.H.'s 
note  of  criticism  oatte  Merchant  <>fVenice(f.  271) 
it  may  perhapa  be  wttbin  the  proviace  of 
"  N.  &  Q.  to  nword  acritLciam  on  art  made  by  a 
-working  man  in  the  Fine  Art  Exhibitioit,  Man- 
chester, of  1862.  Hanng'  exchanged  se:  . 
with  him  about  some  of  the  [dctures,  he  led 
back  to  one  of  Linnell's  landscapes,  and  said,  "Look 
at  that  t  When  I  saw  it  first  I  thought  I  was 
lookiiig  out  of  a  window  1 "  No  artist  could  deaire 
higher  pruse.  A.  L, 

Kewborgta-OQ-Tay. 

Makob  Houaxe  o>  H£BEP02D8eib£.— I  am  pie- 
paring  for  publication  an  illustrated  volume  upon 
the  old  man^ons  of  Herefordahire,  and  the  stories 
connected  with  them.  Perhaps  some  of  your 
readers  may  be  in  poaaesaion  of  sketches  taken 
before  modem  improvementa  had  altered  the  cha- 
racter of  some  of  these  buildings,  and  would  per- 
mit me  to  mahe  use  of  the  yiewa,  I  purpose  also 
to  give  tabular  pedigrees  of  the  more  ancient 
covmty  families,  and  should  be  grateful  for  any 
aseiataDCe  ia  tracing  the  gradual  descent  into  ob- 
scurity or  nothingneaa  of  those  houses  which,  in 
the  sixteeath  and  aeventeenth  century,  were  of 
local  importance.  As  a  matter  of  convenience,  as 
well  as  for  other  obvious  reasons,  I  take  the  date 
of  the  dissolution  of  monaateries  as  the  starting 
point  in  tracing  the  fortunes  of  a  manor  house 
and  the  genealogy  of  its  inmates,  although  it  is 
not  possible  in  aU  cases  to  adhere  to  this  rule. 

C.  J.  ROBIIISOII. 
Norton  Canon  Tlcarafe,  Weobley. 


(ElunrUd. 


A  paper  which  laiely  appeared  in  "  N.  &  Q." 
on  the  &mily  of  Stafford  of  Blatherwick,  co. 
Northampton  (4*  S.  vi.  249),  induces  me  to  refer 
to  the  author  for  information  respecting  the 
manor  of  Oretton,  and  some  names  of  persons  and 
placaa  which  occur  in  his  remarks. 

Amongst  the  names  in  question  are  a  few  snb- 
W{[aentiT  connected  with  Barbados,  and  also  with 
the  EogUsh  coontiM  of  Bedford  and  Suffolk 


Thus,  in  the  seventeenth  century  we  find  tbe 
name  "Dorcas  Stafford,"  "  Frere,"  "Clopton," 
"Gidding,"  or  "Gitting,"  sometimes  "Gyttena" 
and  "Gettina,"  "WingiSeld,"  &c.  in  the  parish 
registers  of  Barbados,  while  "  Oretton  "  was  the 
firat  name  given  to  the  origmal  estate  of  the 
Archer  ftunily  in  that  island. 

In  the  county  of  Bedford  lived  Dr.  Thomas 
Archer,  chaplain  to  K.  James  I.  and  hia  "  cousin  " 
Dr.  Timothy  Archer,  D.D.,  both  originally  &om 
Suffolk,  where  they  had  relatives  named"  Major" 
Bentiey  or  Berkeley,  &e,  at  Sudbury  and  Bury- 
St-Eldinunda,  qnd  amongst  otiiera,  Wicholaa,  An>. 
thony,  and  Edward  Archer.  Now  these  lattar 
Aichera  disappeared  from  that  county  about  the 
middle  of  the  seventeenth  century,  and  for  tbe 
first  time  liieir  namea  then  occur  in  the  Barbados 
records.  Nicholas  and  Edward  are  names  common 
enough,  but  Anthony  was  unknown  amongat 
Amhere  before  Anthony  Areher  of  Sudbury,  who 
waa  contemporary  with  Anthony  Stafford,  brother 
of  HnmphKy  Stafford,  who  had  the  manor  of 
Sudbury,  co.  fiedfoid  [query  Suffolk  P] 

Again :  Humphrey  Archer  of  Umberslade,  co. 
Warwick,  was  the  son  of  Richard  Archer,  by  hia 
wife,  a  daughter  of  Sir  Humphrey  Stafford  of 
Blatherwick.  (Richard  Atcher  was  an  esquire  of 
the  body  to  Henry  VIII.) 

Dr.  Thomas  Archer,  chaplain  to  James  I.,  is 
supposed  to  have  been  a  nephew  of  Humphrey 
Archer  of  Umberslade,  and  it  la  certain  that  Dug- 
dale  (an  intimate  friend  of  Sir  Simon  Archer  of 
Umberslade)  did  not  interfere  with  the  assump- 
tion by  Dr.  T.  Archer  of  the  arms  of  Umberslade, 
although  his  viutation  of  this  coun^  was  strict. 
The  wills  of  Dr.  T.  Archer  and  his  wife  ore  re- 
corded at  Northampton. 

Amongst  so  many  coincidences,  I  am  curious  to 
discover  a  clue  to  tlie  reason  which  the  fiiat  Bar- 
badian Archera  had  for  naming  their  estate  in 
that  colony  Oretton — an  uncommon  name,  and 
unique  in  tbe  colonies.  I  believe  thia  estate  was 
aubsequenUy  named  Uldbury,  but  for  what  reason 
I  am  quite  at  a  loea  to  conjecture. 

rheae  Barbadian  Archers  kept  up  the  names 
Anthony  and  Edward  through  many  sueceasive 
generations.  Amongst  tbeir  marriages  in  tiie 
seventeenth  centurr occur  the  names  "Alice  Shir- 
ley," Elizabeth  Mlisson  or  EUetfon,  Cullum  (a 
Suffolk  name),  Ashby,  &c. 

Any  information  on  the  subject  of  Oretton  and 
Sudbuty  would  much  oblige  me.  A. 

BAiJ.aii  waKiBD.— Shenstooe,  in  a  letter  dated 
1743,  asks— 
"DidyoDbear  the  song  to  the  time  of'The  Cudwv?' 
"  The  Baron  stood  behind  a  tree. 
In  woTu]  plight,  for  nought  heard  be 

But  cannon,  cannaD,  Ac.        ^  <  > 

UnpIuringtoaOaniU^^^'  ^^t»-V*-V^IV. 


NOTES  AND  Q0EEIES. 


[4*8.VII.M*T«,'71. 


a  that  (kll  npon  tlie  won!  a 


m  txpiat  the 


In  a  later  letter  he  says,  "  Do  write  out  tbe 
whole  ballad  of 'The  Baron  stood  behind  a  tree.'" 
I  imagine  that  it  msf  be  found  in  The  BritUh 
Orpheut,  hj  what  he  eaya  nrevioiulj'.  What  are 
tite  worda,  and  what  may  nave  been  the  special 
eaoae  for  ita  harin);  been  written  f  W.  P. 

BBLL-Bnraine,  Bia— A  &iend  requests  me  to 
ask  inforinatian  at  correspondents  on  this  subject 
in  "N.  &  Q."  for  the  oaage  following.  He  has 
obaerf  ed  that  at  the  passing-beU,  and  at  fanerals, 
before  the  koell,  three  single  strokes  on  the  bell 
are  given  twice,  with  a  slight  pause  between  (if 
the  deceased  be  a  female) ;  but  if  a  mole,  the 
three  strokes  are  tAnce  given.  What  meaning 
bave  these  strokes,  or  are  they  simply  to  denote 
theses? 


by  a  certun  number  of  his  compeen  over  the 
grave.  Has  this  anv  reference  to  the  trental  ser- 
vice of  the  Romish  choich,  pteserved  in  this 


J.A.G. 

DBDicaTioH  or  Chvkcsbs. — Was  the  practice 
oF  dedicating  churches  to  (or  rather  is  it  not  more 
correct  to  sar,  naming  them  after?)  some  saint 
nnivetsally  followed  in  England  in  early  times  f 
and  if  80,  is  there  any  posubility  of  recoveriiu' 
the  name  when  all  local  tradition  is  lostF  Is 
there  any  book  which  gives  general  information 
on  the  subject  ?  A.  F.  E. 

The  E&bl  of  Dxbbt. — Many  years  since  I 
temember  reading  an  anecdote  of  the  great  Earl 
of  Derby  (ftmp.  Queen  EUtabeth).  A  poor  rela- 
tion came  to  pay  his  respects  to  the  earl  while  the 
latter  was  attuiding  the  queen.  The  earl  re- 
ceived him  very  courteously,  saying  that  every 
noble  oak  had  of  course  lower  as  well  as  upper 
branches.  Can  any  reader  of  "  N.  &  Q."  kindly 
tell  me  where — naming  edition,  volume,  and 
page— I  may  find  the  anecdote  in  question  P 

H.  W.  C. 

QBORes  Edwibds,  i..i>.  1646. — Any  informa* 
tion  respecting  George  Edwards,  of  the  household 
of  King  Henry  VTII.,  on  or  before  a.d.  1646,  wiU 
be  very  acceptable.  J.  R.  B. 

EpiosjLK  bz  Samubl  Rosers. — Con  you  in- 
form me  whereabouts  in  Tie  Oreak  Anthologjf  ie 
to  be  found  the  original  of  the  following  epigram 
by  Siunuel  Rogers  (Poemt,  edit  1860,  p.  270)  ?~ 

"  While  on  the  diff  with  calm  delight  >be  kneelt, 
And  the  bine  raleg  b  tboiusnd  J07S  ncall. 
"le  tut.  lut  verge  her  lefkntiteolat 


And  the  fond  bof  ipiiai^  back  to  nestle  there." 
The  same  touching  inddent  is  also  closely  imi- 


Ki  the  Antlmlogia  Oneea,  bj  Brand  and  Jacobs,  edit. 
II.  180,  eplE.  xxii.  the  original  lines  are  sttribnted 
to  Leonidu  of  Aleiaadria ;  bat  Gtotfe  Burge*,  io  hLi 
traiuUtiDD  oT  Tie  Grett  AiitiiolBg!/  (Bohn's  CUirieal 
LIbnur,  p.  102),  aecribes  them  to  Aichiu.  Conralt  abo 
Blind's  Gndl  AmOwiojia,  ediL  1813,  p.  366,  where  tbev 
are  also  attribntwi  U>  Leonidaa.] 

"  Fox'b  Martybs,"  a  S&ubx. — I  lately  bought 
at  a  book  stall  what  bears  to  be  the  second  edi- 
tion, with  improvements,  of  what  is  called  an 
entire  new  work  called  Fax' a  Martyn;  or  a  New 
Soak  of  the  Snfferuif*  oftheFaitkfti,  the  date  bein^' 
1784.  It  is  a  satire  on  tbose  former  members  of 
Parliament  who  lost  their  seats  on  occAsion  of  the 
election  of  the  new  Pariiament  called  by  Mr.  Ktt. 
after  the  expulsion  from  office  of  the  coalition 
ministry  of  Mr.  Fos  and  Lord  North.  It  begins 
with  a  list  of  the  sufferers  and  their  placee  of  mar- 
tynlom,  being  the  places  which  they  had  repre- 
sented in  the  Parliament  which  had  been  dissolved, 
andwhoamounttonearlyahundred.  Neztcome$ 
an  introduction,  which  I  abridge  slightly  as  fol- 

"  A  fan  conviction  of  the  DiODV  advantages  vhlcfa  the 
good  people  of  Endand  bare  derived  thim  that  exeellenl 
work,  a  Book  of  Haityidom  by  Mr.  John  Foi,  in  the 
begiDning  of  last  centurr,  bu  Induced  ua  in  tbeaa  critlu'al 
times  to  adopt  the  same'  plin  in  politics ;  and  to  compile 
a  complete  system  of  the  political  mtztjr^o^  of  the 
present  day,  wherein  the  lives  and  aeliona  of  theee  who 
have  foognt  ansacc«M<^}',  and  Buffered  ao\iy  In  tbdr 
dlaintereeted  porsults,  m%j  be  commemorated.  To  those 
who  have  the  coange  to  go  on  in  the  same  path  we  pre- 
sent the  fbUowing  manna),  hoping  that  it  may  bean  useful 
compaaion  and  famish  tiiem  with  pUntifnl  soams  of 
consdation  ;  and  wtiile  the}'  dwell  with  raplnre  on  the 
reoMmbraoas  of  tfae  soBerlngs  of  their  bretbren,  IM  them 
pray  '  That,  when  they  have  serreil  their  country  with 
a*  much  fideli^  and  seal,  they  may  meet  their  end  with 
the  same  cheerilal  renigaatlon  and  the  same  pious  hqies 
(rf  the  day  of  retribotion.' " 

Then  come  the  names  agun  of  the  same  de- 
feated candidates,  with  a  shi^rt  statement  after 
each  of  his  merits  in  the  cause  of  martyrdom, 
almost  all  ending  with  some  reference  to  Mr.  Fox ; 
and  there  is  prefixed  a  frontiapiece,  ezhilutiDg 
Burke  and  Sheridan  at  a  moDument  inscribed 
"  To  the  Memory  of  the  martyrod  Senators,"  with 
the  head  of  Fox  on  the  tablet  which  contains  the 


From  tfae  similarity  of  style,  the  notices  of  the 
individuals  seem  to  be  the  production  of  the  same 
pen,  and  ore  cleverly  written.  Not  improbably 
the  author  may  be  known  to  some  of  jour  corre- 
spondents. Q- 

£diabargh. 

Dr.  Wx.  Emo,  in  his  very  amusing  .<4iMafi>(«a 
ofhia  Own  Time,  gives  his  eloginm  mi  Chevalier 
Taylor,  tho  fomoos  oculist,  bat  snbjoiiis  a  note  to ,  ^ 
the  effect  that  a  better  acqaaintanoe  with  tba 


*'-8lTILMai6." 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


389 


Chevilier  had  enabled  him  to  improve  tfae  elo- 
gium,  "  and  add  some  Dew  features  to  Lie  poT- 
tniit,  of  which  I  have  printed  &  few  copies 
obli|^  mj  friends.*'  Has  the  elogium  erer  been 
publiahed  with  these  additiona  P  I  see  that  Dr. 
King's  Original  Work*,  with  Hittoricai  Nata,  and 
a  Memoir  of  (A«  AvlAor,  were  pnblJBhed  in  1776 
by  John  Nichols  in  three  volumes.  Is  this  book 
now  to  be  met  with  ?  Does  it  contain  the  once 
famous  poem  The  Totut  f  J.  U.  0. 

[Dr.  WlllUm  Kjdk.  whDK  collrctcd  worki  wen  ediled 

br  Jgho  Nlcbnli  Id  1776,  wu  ■  diSerant  penoD  to 
tiaQuaolThiTaaitB.'aiAiitcdotaofhu  OicaTime. 
fonner  WH  Judge  of  Ibe  Hi(;li  Court  of  Admir«lli 
Ireland  ;    the  latter  wm  Prineipsl  of  Si.   Marv   L_.., 
Oxford.    Tbejwere  both  remarkable  fortfaelr  Wit  aed 
leamins.] 

Lord  Kraoaroir  amd  Oldoam.— Ta  them  anj 
available  minute  information  about  William, 
fourth  Earl  of  Eincaton  (Pierrepniut),  in  whose 
house  the  poet  Oldbam  died  in  December  1683  f 
From  hie  kindness  to  Oldham  he  muat  have  been 
a  man  of  literary  tastes.  He  f^ve  Oldham  a 
handsome  funeral,  ofGciat^d  as  chief  mourner,  and 
erected   a  monument  to   him  at   Hulme-Pieire- 

huTva  ON  Mathbhatics. — Can  any  one  inform 
me  where  I  ahall  find  some  not  very  flattering 
lines  on  mathemaljca,  beginning,  to  the  best  of 
my  recollection,  thus : — 

■■  There  ia  a  squat,  ill-natured  creature. 
With  Utile  charm  ta  bout  In  form  or  feilure." 

A.  F.  K. 

Maidehwki:.l,  nkab  Looih.  —  Wanted,  some 
information  about  an  dd  house  called  Maiden- 
well.  It  is  situated  near  Louth,  in  Lincolnshire. 
Tradition  sajs  it  was  originally  a  nunnery ;  after- 
wards, I  believe,  it  be^me  the  property  of  a 
family  of  the  name  uf  Mosely,  during  whose  time 
the  young  Pretender  is  said  to  have  taken  refuge 
there.  The  Moselye  (who  were,  I  believe,  Roman 
Catholics)  left  about  the  end  of  the  eighteenth 
.  centuiy,  when  the  place  was,  I  think,  bought  by 
the  corporation  of  BaainKstoke  in  Hants,  in  whose 
poseeasion  it  now  is,  No  relics  have  ever  been 
found.  The  house  is  in  the  form  of  a  creea;  and 
there  was  a  corresponding  monastery  at  Hsuffham, 
a  small  village  near.  H.  £.  £. 

YAXimcsiPT  PoBK. — Can  any  one  tell  me  if 
the  following  poem,  copied  from  a  HS.  of  the 
early  part  of  tne  seventeenth  century,  has  ever 
been  published,  and  who  is  the  author  ? — 

"  Lile  aa  a  tree  from  forth  y  earth  dolb  apring, 
So  from  y  earth  doth  man  big  easence  take  ; 
Tbe  tree  sbonta  forth,  and  doth  faire  Uraaomi  bring. 

So  man,  tl|l  ycnitb  his  manriofi  doth  fonake. 
The  tree  snnring  omoked,  if  joul  have  it  meoded. 
Whilst  that  it  ii  a  twigg  it  most  be  becded." 

Anolt. 


Mebvils  or  MrainLg.—  Where  can  I  find  a 
pedjBree  of  the  Menvile  or  Mennils  of  Sledwjah, 
CO.  Pal.  f  They  are  said  to  have  been  an  ofieboot 
of  the  Ingleton  branch  of  the  baronial  house  of 
MenilL  Philip  MBntKn. 

Pbdiqekbs  or  Fodtobrs'  Kut.— The  privileges 
attaching  to  founders'  kin  in  the  varioua  colleges 
of  Oiford  and  Cambridge  having  been  abolished, 
and  those  societies  no  longer  having  any  interest 
in  withholding  from  the  knowledge  of  the  public 
such  pedigrees  as  have  been  provSi  to  their  satis- 
faction, I  take  the  liberty  of  suggesting  that  the 
Sublicalion  of  such  pedigrees  is  on  many  grounds 
eMrable._  Practically  the  muniment  rooms  at 
those  societies  are  open  only  to  actual  foundation 
members.  Will  any  of  thorn  devote  a  few  days  or 
weeks  to  the  task  of  transcribing  and  digestmg  the 
documents  to  which  I  have  (dluded  P  If  they 
would  do  so  they  would  doubtless  gratify  a  large 
number  of  persons,  end  contribute  almost  as  much 
to  family  history  as  is  furnished  even  by  the 
heralda'  visitationa  themselves.  Larohdeh. 

ftJOABD. — "The  queen's  grace  goeth  sometime 
with  plackarde,  and  sometime  with  stomacher; 
and  then  her  grace  goeth  lacyd."  {Lisle  Papen, 
xi.  art.  100.)  "The  best  and  most  used  fosnion 
[for  dresses]  is  large  and  long,  with  double 
placards."  (J6.  xiL  art.  89.)  "  I  have  delivered 
to  Skutt  for  tfae  upperbodia  and  placard  11  yard 
lywk  velott  [Lucca  velvet]."  (/J.  loose  at  end  of 
vol.  xii.)  "In  the  flat  trussyng  cofer  .  .  .  Txij. 
placards  for  gownes."  (Inoenlory  of  Lord  lMh% 
Oooda,  tmealemlared.) 


's  Cottumein  England 


man's  stomacher." 

describes  it  as  "a  stomacher  worn  by  di 
women."  _  The  above  contemporary  extracts  make 
a  distinction  between  placard  and  stomacher. 
What  vras  the  distinction  P  and  what  were  double 
placards?  Hbhhettbtoe. 

PoHTEAiT  OF  Chibf  Bakoit  Obd.— There  is  a 

Sortrait  at  Ravensworth  Castle  of  this  eminent 
cotch  judge,  who,  I  have  been  told,  was  the 
only  one  honoured  with  the  title  of  Chief  Baron. 
Has  it  ever  been  engraved,  or  does  there  exist 
any  print  of  the  judge  P  C.J.  B. 

Pratkks  foe  thb  Dbab.— Will  any  of  your 
many  readers  kindly  oblige  me  with  copies  of  in- 
ecnptions  on  monuments  containing  a  prayer  tot 
the  departed,  put  up  in  churches  or  cburehyaids 
of  the  Church  of  England  between  the  years  1700 
and  1800  P        Fbbdbriot  aBo&GE  Lek,  D.C.L. 

6,  Lambeth  Terrace,  London. 

PvKn.—Wbj  ie  this  name  applied  to  the  tliin- 
Boled  and  low-heeled  shoes  known  as  "  dandng- 
Pnmps  "  P  M.  D. 

Joner.  in  hla  Et^molofiem  LimgMa  JagGamm,  saya 
pomp  u  a  ghoe  or  one  sole,  and  ao  calted,  perhaps, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*•  B. TIL  Mats, -ri. 


becuua  media  tripndiigixnnutict(,vh]di  we  call  nuiks 
iDd  blJk;  otfrom  the  •ooDdtbajmalce  in  dancing;  or, 
Itmavbe  added,  ftom  the  aprin^of  tbatole  reaemUlng 
the  e^addtj  of  ttie  nicker  of  th«  pn^i.  There  appeara, 
after  all,  aa  obacniltj- leqiectiiig  the  origin  of  this  Kotd.] 


"Tba  Tme  Hardn  of  th«  Sooth ;  or,  a  rare  example 
of  a  HaTde  dwdlW  at  Rie  la  Sumbz,  who  fbr  the  love 
of  ■  young  man  of  Leatershlre,  went  bej^Hid  tbe  a«a  in 
the  habit  of  a  page,  and  after,  to  tbali  hearts  content, 
were  both  married  at  Masram,  in  Germanj,  and  now 
dwelling  Bt  Eie  aforeaald.  Printed  at  London  Ibr  f  rands 
Coulea.'' 

This  is  a  ballad  of  BaTenteen  stenzas  at  the  end 
of  Hollowaj's  Hitter^  of  Rye,  copied  from  the 
origiaal  in  the  Britiah  Museum,  and  eold  tX 
SoUieby's  in  1846,*  I  should  like  to  know  who 
the  nobleman  alluded  to  is ;  who  also  were  Sweet 
MargetT  (the  maid  of  R;e),  and  Ajithony,  the 
pride  of  Leii:«3terahire.  £.  B.  C. 

Old  Scotch  Nxwbpapsbb.  —  1  should  feel 
obliged  if  any  of  your  readers  in  Scotland  can  tell 
me  what  is  the  date  and  1itle  of  the  oldest  news- 

Saper  published  in  Scotlnnd,  and  if  a  complete 
le  has  been  preserved  and  can  be  seen.  I  u>ink 
it  would  be  a  useful  addition  to  Mitchell's  Newt- 
p<^er  Prest  Diractory  if  the  publiahers  of  some  of 
the  oldest  established  newspapers  weto  to  atato 
if  they  possess  complete  files  ivsta  their  com- 
mencement. W.  D. 
Eennington,  Snrrcjr. 

[For  some  account  of  the  early  Scottish  new«p«pere, 
we  most  rel^i  onr  conwpoDdent  to  the  Enoyclopitdia 
Jtriltnmita,  eighth  edition,  xvi.  iSfi  ;  Gfloige  Chalmers's 
rjfi  of  nomas  UMidimtn,  p.  «i ;  and  "  H.  4  Q."  1"  S, 
vili.  67.] 

"Stbbik  of  Siltxb  Sba." — This  pbrase,  as 
Applied  to  the  Channel,  is  often  used  in  The  Times' 
leaders  and  parliamentaty  speeches.  It  was  placed 
in  inverted  commas  in  the  report  of  Lord  Salis- 
bnrj's  speech  of  March  6.  Whose  is  it  P  I  have 
heard  it  attribated  to  Mr.  Gladstone,  Jun.  But 
in  the  Church  and  SlaU  Seview  (edited  by  Arch- 
deacon Denison)  of  April  1,  1863, 1  find  an  article 
beginniDK: — "The  Channel  is  that  mlver  strip  of 
sea  which  sevets  merry  England  from  the  tardy 
realms  of  Europe."  Maxsochbib, 

Ehblibh  Vbmifioatioii.— Is  there  any  hook 
on  English  versification  axplanatATy  of  and  nving 
rules  for  the  variotia  metres  and  stales  P  I^ow 
Oarpenter's.  C.  E.  T, 


tUflit*. 

THE  COMPLETION  OF  ST.  PAUL'S. 
(4<o  a  vi.  poMim ;  TiL  186,  S41, 344) 

As  Mb.  Bxkiamih  Fekbet  and  Ms.  Sohbbs 
Clarkx  are  men  of  suffident  eminence  in  the 
architectural  profession  to  justify  the  public  in 
attaching  importance  to  their  omnions  on  any 
question  of  art,  and  as  tbey  come  lorward  in  then 
own  name*,  it  seems  only  reapectfui  to  them  and 
to  the  public  that  some  answer  should  be  ginn 
to  theii  remonstrance;  and  though  1  have  no  right 
or  authority  to  speak  for  my  colleaguee,  I  hope  the 
followiuK  explanatjou  of  mj  own  views  may  not 
be  considered  out  of  place. 

Before  takinK  anv  steps  with  reference  to  the 
alteration  of  the  choir  of  Sl  Paul's,  the  com- 
mittee for  the  Restoration  Fund  submitted  the 
question  of  best  musical  orrangementa  to  a  sab- 
committee  of  twelve  of  the  most  eminent  murical 
authorities  in  England.    Tbey  came  to  the  con- 


that  the  best  position  for  the  organ  ^ 
under  the  arch  leading  into  the  choir.     They 


did 


not,  however,  recommend  it  being  placed  in  As 
centre,  where  it  originally  was,  because  in  that 
position,  and  with  the  solid  supports  that  would  be 
necessary,  it  must  interrupt  the  vista,  and  would 
cut  the  choir  off  from  the  dome;  and  also  beeaua 
the  OKan,  if  so  placed,  would  for  obvious  reasons 
be  only  available  for  services  in  tiie  choir,  and 
another  organ  must  be  provided  for  those  under 
the  dome.  They  therefore  unanimousl;  recom- 
mended that  it  should  be  divided,  and  placed 
against  the  piers  on  either  side,  where  it  would 
not  only  bo  as  well  heard,  but  would  admit  of 
considerable  improvements,  and  could  be  mode  u 

aing  and  as  povrerfU  as  any  oi^an  in  England, 
ss  being  equally  available  for  the  services  in 
the  choir  aa  well  as  for  those  under  the  dome. 

Being  satisfied  in  this  reject,  the  committee 
had  drawings  and  models  prepared  to  enable 
them  to  judge  of  the  architectural  eSect  of  the 
divided  organ ;  and  I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying 
that,  so  far  from  being  a  blemish,  it  is  just  what 
is  wanted  to  fumiah  the  choir  arch,  and  to  give  it 
that  character  and  dignity  which  it  wants.  One 
of  the  great  defects  of  St  Paul's,  as  it  at  presaat 
atands,  is  that  the  four  great  arches  of  the  dome 
are  all  alike.  There  is  nothing  to  distinguish  dia 
choir  arch  from  the  other  three ;  but  this,  witl> 
the  open  acreen  it  is  proposed  to  add,  perfect^ 
rememes  this  defect  But,  on  the  other  bandi 
it  has  been  u^ed  that  it  obstructs  the  view.  Thii, 
however,  is  exactly  what  it  does  not  do.  Cp  to 
the  height  of  the  top  of  the  present  wood-wom  of 
the  choir-stalls  the  supports  of  the  ocgan  ranga 
with  them,  and  are  actoallj  onlr  fhnr  additional 
atalls.  These  pntjeet  considerably  less  than  the 
atatoes  of  Lords  Nelson  and  Comwallia,  and  tbeie> 


4"'S.TILlUTe,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


391 


fora,  to  ODT  one  standiiig  on  the  floor  of  the  dome, 
obstruct  the  view  less.  Above  the  top  line  of  the 
choir  Bt&lls  the  two  hftlvea  of  the  organ  project 
five  feet  on  either  Ada.  As  seen  in  perspective, 
as  thev  always  must  be  seen,  there  U  no  position 
in  which  they  obstruct  the  view  in  aoj  appreci' 
nble  manner  mim  anj  person  standii^  on  the  floor 
of  the  church.  The  great  beauty  of  the  arrang^- 
tnent,  however,  is  that  bj  it  the  choir  ia  brought 
to  the  dome,  and  the  dome  and  the  choir  thus 
form  puta  of  ime  great  church,  and  may  be  and 
indeed  must  always  be  used  together  as  parte  of 
one  great  whole.. 

The  plan  we  ate  invited  to  adopt  in  preference 
to  this  u,  first,  one  proposed  in  the  Saensty,  which 
is  to  erect  an  altar  with  steps  and  baldachino,  and 
•11  proper  accompaniments  under  the  arch  leading 
into  the  choir,  and  so  making  a  second  church 
under  the  dome.  By  this  arrangement  the  pre- 
sent choir  would  be  reduced  to  the  rank  of  a 
L«dy  chapel  entered  &om  the  side  aisles.  This 
would  require  the  removal  of  the  stalls  eastward, 
the  retention  of  the  organ  in  the  very  objection- 
able place  where  it  now  is,  and  sundry  other 
onaDgements  by  no  means  desirable.  If  Mb. 
FCBABT  had  taken  the  trouble  to  think  twice 
before  recommending  i^  he  would  have  seen  the 
contradiction  of  his  urfpng  the  committee  at  St. 
Paul's  to  do  what  he  so  much  blames  the  Bean 
and  Chapter  for  doing  at  Westminster.  At  the 
Utter  place  it  only  is,  that  when  a  larger  congre- 
gation is  ezpecled  than  can  be  accommodated  in 
the  choir  thej  adjourn  to  the  nave,  wherea  service 
appropriate  to  the  locality  is  performed.  At  St. 
Faul's  Mb  Fbbbxt  advocates  two  churches,  wholly 
separate  from  each  other,  with  two  altars,  two 
pulpits,  two  organs,  and  which  can  never  be  nsed 
t<^(Bther,  but  must  always  he  separate  and  distinct 
churches. 

Another  scheme  which  is  hinted  at  by  UK. 
FBHKBf ,  and  which  has  been  warmlr  urged  on 
the  committee  by  several  distinguished  architects, 
is  to  erect  an  altar  with  steps,  baldachino,  reredos, 
wings,  &c.  under  the  dome,  but  so  as  to  allow 
access  to  the  jvesent  choir  behind  it.  So  far  it 
certainly  obviates  that  defect ;  but  if  any  one  will 
-take  the  pains  to  draw  out  to  scale  the  baldachino 
tiiat  win  not  look  a  toy  under  a  dome  two  hun- 
.  dred  feet  high  and  pnctically  •■  wide  across,  and 
plan  all  the  necessary  aocompanimeuts,  he  will 
find  be  most  mend  more  money  than  the  com- 
mittee possess  if  it  is  to  be  worthy  of  its  podtkm. 
fie  will  also  findthat  he  has  occupied  at  least  half 
the  flour  space  of  tbe  dome,  and  so  diapbeed  a 
coireapatiduiK  proportion  of  the  oongrmtioD,  and 
got  otta  of  the  noat  awkward  and  ill-airaiiged 
churchai  in  Btnope  BAer  for  seeing  or  hearing, 
and  with  all  the  dVects  just  pointed  out,  of  baring 
two  separate  and  distinct  churches  tmder  one  roof. 

Will  Mk.  Fxbbxt  or  any  one  else  suggest  any 


role  for  determining  when  the  one  church  ia  to  be 
used  and  when  the  other  t  On  great  state  and 
festival  occBUons,  when  the  Judges  go  in  state 
or  the  Oorporation  on  any  great  festivals,  the  dome 
church  must  no  doubt  he  need,  as  up  to  the 
weet  door  it  would  accommodate  more  persons 
than  the  choir  church ;  but  then  there  must  be 
the  bishop's  throne,  the  dean's  stall,  the  lord 
mayor's,  and  stalls  for  the  canons,  and  accommo- 
datjon  for  the  choir.  Are  all  these  to  be  in  dupli- 
cate under  the  same  roof  P 


Ms.  SoKBBS  Clabxs,  at  any  of  those  who 
oppose  the  committee's  scheme  would  take  the 
trouble  to  draw  out  their  own  proposals  or  to 
master  those  prepared  by  the  committee,  they 
would  be  forced  to  confess  that  the  latter  involves 
less  change  from  the  original  design,  and  is  the 
best  way  yet  proposed  of  sdapting  the  building, 
on  one  great  whole,  for  all  th^  purposes  to  which 
we  can  at  present  see  it  is  likely  to  be  applied. 

Jas.  EKKacssov. ' 
20,  Ltngham  Place. 


GArasBOROUGH^  "  BLUE  BOT."« 

(4*  S.  iii.  676 :  iv.  2S,  41,  80,  204, 237 ;  v.  17, 

35;  vii.  287.) 

According  to  Neslutt's  statement,  made  at  Hee* 
ton  Vicarage  about  fifty-three  or  fifty-four  yeua 
ago,  end  reported  by  the  Kev.  Mr.  Trimmer.t  he 
obtaned  the  "Blue  Boy"  from  the  Prince  of 
Wales  over  a  dinner  for  300J^ ;  a{id  it  is  now 
certun  that  he  had  made  the  same  statement  to 
Hail  afteiwards. 

It  is  probable  that  lliis  sale  toiA  place  between 
1795  and  1803,  when  the  prince,  to  his  credit, 
paid  off  625,000^  of  his  liabilities  without  the'ud 
of  a  shilling  from  the  public  purse.} 

But  Nesbitt,  after  having  been  an  M.F.  for 
nearly  twenty  years,  was  overtaken  by  serious 
misfortunes  in  1802,  which  eUcited  much  sym- 
pathy for  him  from  the  Prince  of  Wales,  who  con- 
tinued to  be  his  fHend,  and  from  others,  amoi^ 
whom  were  Measra.  Oolnaghi,  who  ex^nged  then 
claim  against  him. 

A  six  days'  sale  of  his  effects  ensued,  of  which 
the  first  was  of  the  fine  pictures,  induding  the 
"Blue  Boy")  three  of  the  ive  articles <^ Tert&, 
ft<^,  and  two  of  the  choice  wines. 

llhe  ^turea  were  of  the  very  hlghsat  claas, 
but  chiefly  by  foreign  mastera.  They  ware  de- 
scribed aa — 


H.*<1,''4« 

t.  Tymhitt,  Himii  of  Commam,  M«y  10, 180*. 


392 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[**8.vn.  1 


*■  adect,  nHHt  bsmtihil,  uid  ralaaUc  painting!,  the  pn»- 
pertT  of  ■  gentleman  long  dtitfngDiihwl  for  tute  and 
Judgment,  consisting  at  the  mont  perfect  varka,  mparior 
for  exeelknce  and  qoalitr,  well  anttaenticat«d,  of  thcwe 
great  masura— tinido  Bheni,  Giorgiane,  P.  and  A.  Veio- 
nese,  Del  Yago.  X.  Poas^n,  PordeDtni,  Mi^ird,  Spag- 


MigDird, 
,  Van  Dy:kt  Rabeos,  Cum  Bergbem, 
"—-'-'to,  Vemet,   Greme,  Gi ' 


Honehenin,  Canaletto,  Yemet,   6nazt,  daimborougb, 
and  olber  nDairned  muten." 

The  Times  thus  Btrongly  recommendfl  them :  — 
"  To  be  able  to  poaiew  perftctlon,  and  miu  the  golden 
oppoTtunitj,  wonld  ba  a  crime  againat  taite  and  judg- 
ment ;  and  now,  or  never,  ma]'  be  Mrly  ai^ued  in  faronr 
of  the  iaastimable  plctuna  that  Mr.  Coxa  has  to  sell  this 
day  at  20,  Grafton  Street,  riccadillj-" 

Amongst  the  pictures  selected  for  special  recom- 
mendatinii  the  "  Blue  Boy  "  wm  one,  ahout  which 
The  Tinut  inquires :  "  Wbere  so  snpenor  a  Gains- 
borough in  s  fancied  portnut  F  " 

At  the  sale  several  of  the  {nctojes,  and  doabt- 
lebs  other  articles,  appear  to  have  been  bought  in 
cheaply,  and  to  have  afterwards  adorned  Neatntt's 
residence  at  Heaton.  Amongst  them  was  a  por- 
trait hy  Oaittsborough  of  N^itt's  uncle,  Arnold 
Nesbitt,  Esq.,  M.P.,  which  is  sdll  in  the  family, 
and  the  "  Blue  Boy,"  at  only  ui^-flve  guineas. 

Neabitt'a  affairs  were  in  an  unsettled  stats, 
which  became  a  very  protracted  one ;  so  that 
whatever  pictures  or  otner  articles  were  bought 
in  would  neceaearily  be  taken  care  of  pro  Urn.  by 
Iiis  Mends,  and  douhtless,  through  the  inSuence 
of  the  Prince  of  Wales,  Hoppner  became  the  pro 
tern,  holder  of  lie  "Blue  Boy."  Hoppner  was  a 
great  admirer  of  Ounaborougn,  and  rd  imitator  of 
nis  portnut  Undscapes.*  lie  tells  as  himself  of 
"  the  high  admiration  we  have  so  lonz  cherished 
for  that  distingnished  artist"  (Guniibon>ngh).t 
It  was,  Aerefore,  highly  probable  that  he  per- 
suaded the  prince  to  become  his  guarantor  under 
seal  that,  if  Nesbitt  would  lend  him  the  master- 
piece of  the  man  be  so  much  adroirad  to  study 
and  perlutps  copy,  it  should  he  duly  returned  to 
Nesbitt,  as  it  was  returned  within  the  memoiy  of 
one  still  amongst  us. 

From  official  sources  we  find  that  Neabitt's 
affairs  were  settied  about  the  close  of  1814  or  the 
beginning  of  1815,  by  the  sale  of  his  life-interest 
in  an  estate  for  the  benefit  of  his  creditors,  and 
from  local  sources  that  he  took  up  his  residence 
at  HestoD  in  1815,  and  that  the  "  Blue  Boy  " 
arrived  there  sbortiy  afterwards,  it  was  said,  fium 
tbe  Palace. 

Happily  tbe  Heston  period  of  the  "  Blue 
Boy's  mstoty  is  a  clear  and  well-authenticated 
one,  fbr  it  so  hqipens  that  one  of  Neabitt's  house- 
hold at  Heston  still  survives  in  what  may  be 
called  TigoroDS  health,  both  intellectual  and  phy- 
sical coDsideTing  her  age.  - 
Thia  aged  widow,  having  described  the  "Blue 


Boy"  with  much  accuracy  to  some  of  tha  paro- 
chial officialu,  was  asked  to  go  to  London  to  see 
if  she  could  recognise  the  green  "  Blue  Boy  "  is 
tbe  picture  she  knew  at  i^toa.  This  she  did 
on  March  0,  accompanied  bv  her  grandson,  and 
promptly  recognised  the  "boj,"  but  not  the 
Frame  in  which  he  is  sow  set,  and  rightly  so,  for 
the  frame  was  changed  after  Neabitt's  sals. 

With  this  explanation  we  will  let  the  widow 
speak  for  herself  through  her  gttodeon  in  the  fol- 
lowing letter: — 

■■  HestoD,  ISth  Marcb.  1871. 

"Sir, — I  am  now  in  tbe  eighty-second  jeir  of  my  la, 
but  io  poescuion  of  both  mental  and  bodQ}-  health,  Rir 
which  I  am  tralj  thankfal  to  God. 

"  I  knew  Mr.  John  Ncabitt  all  the  time  he  wai  at 
Beston,  Bi  I  wu  about  twenty-<dx  when  he  came  Uhtc, 
and  I  vent  there  as  a  urrant  (wnrking  hooadcMoiO 
daring  most  of  the  time  he  was  at  Heelon.  Mr.  NeabiU 
had  a  Dumber  of  fine  pletnrea.  but  I  only  now  recollect 
'The  Flover-Girl,'  'Daniel  in  tbe  Lioa'a  Den,'  and 
the  *  Blue  Bo?.'  The  laat  wai  a  great  Ikvoarite  amon^ 
OB  In  the  honae,  for  the  nice  boy  aeemed  always  lookiag 

"  I  remwnber  the  '  Blue  Bay  '  coming  to  Mr.  Neabitt's 
mon  after  ho  came  to  Heaton,  and  I  woold  not  aar  any- 
thing aboaC  Mr.  Ncebitt  and  bla  bonaehold  I  did  net 
know  to  be  true.  The  '  Blue  Boy '  came  there  cardUly 
packed  in  a  larga  case  or  cnte,  and  waa  hnng  oppirite 
tha  flr«.placa  In  the  parlonr  in  the  honae  now  calbd 
'The  Hall,'  and  tha  pn^ierty  of  Hr.  Hogarth  the  ma- 
gistrate. 

"  Along  with  my  grandson  Ridiard  Shorlland  I  saw 


the  'blaeBor' 
on  Thursday  la 


1  I  a 


wall 


London  to  see  Hr.  NeabiU  shortly  be^re  he  left  HeMo, 
and  tbe  *  Blue  Boy '  being  taken  down  to  examina  by 
them,  and  ita  baing  left  down,  when  I  observed  aoma  dulk 
writing  oD  its  back.*  But  soon  aRer  this  Nine  vaa* 
came  from  London  and  took  away  most  of  the  ftanttnie 
and  piclnres,  and  a  neigbbonr,  Fanner  TempU^  (0(4  Ott 
odds  and  ends  they  left  to  Chelsea. 

"  Mr.  Xeabitt  then  left  Heaton,  but  I  dv  not  know 
where  be  went  to,  bat  ha  did  not  look  to  be  an  tJd  dsd, 
bat  waa  tall,  thin,  and  active. 

"  I  am.  Sir,  tic, 

"  Widow  Shobtlaid, 
"  Per  my  grandaon, 

*'  BlOBAHD  SaoKTum," 

The  ial«rview,  as  it  may  be  called,  between 
the  widow  and  the  "  Boy"  was,  it  may  be  added, 
quite  like  the  meeting  of  two  li»g-paited  Mendir 
'nil  fifty  veaig  in  this  case.  Evidently  the  long 
■    look         ■"      ""     " 


look  at  the  ' 


)  recalling  to 


memory  the  scenes  in  which,  as  one  of  the  leBa 
of  Heston  at  that  lime,  she  had  shared ;  fbr  after 
a  timeshesaid  with  almost  tearfnl  emotum,  point- 
ing to  the  inctare,  "  Ah,  that  boa  I  IfdiBt'Boy' 
oouldspeak  be  couU  t«U  what  itnn; 
done  before  him  in  the  parlonr  at  B 


■  SriU  DQ  It,  *t  Han's  asle  in  1868,  and  doabUaa  tile,  ^ 
R.  A.  Exhibilion  maiUiiB.  , '  ^ 


♦"■S.  Til.  Mat  8, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


393 


Netbitt  hitd  a  "  Blue  Boj"  with  him  at  HestoD, 
Mid  that  to  the  he«t  of  tha  widow's  judgment 
the  green  "  Blue  Bov  "  is  the  same  ^cture.  That 
the  Heaton  "  Blue  Bo?  "  was  the  original  picture 
formerly  id  Nesbitt's  fine  collectioa  there  can  be 
no  doubt,  for  tbeie  was  not  ontj  hia  own  taste, 
judgment,  and  knowledge  of  the  picture,  but  the 
trust  seal  on  it  to  prevent  a  spnnous  cop;  l)eing 
palmed  off  on  him  as  the  original  after  having 
Deen  kept  about  thirteen  years  for  htm  as  a  pic- 
ture of  great  value.  Bat  this  is  a  short  psrioa  of 
obscurity  compared  with  the  time — about  forty 
years— m  which  Gwnsborough's  celebrated  por- 
tr^t  of  Mrs.  Oraham  (Lad;r  Lynedoch)  remained 
in  as  great  obscurity,  also  in  trust,  before  it  once 
more  saw  the  light  of  publicity  at  the  British 
Institution  in  1848,  and  again  in  1867  at  MaO' 
cheater,  where  it  fairly  beat  the  pale  "  Blue  Boy" 
on  merits,  and  carried  off  the  nighest  honours. 
The  green  "Hue  Boy"  was  then  all  that  year  a 
ward  in  Chancery  after  Hall's  death. 

It  thus  becomes  obvious  that,  except  nominally 
ortemporaril^,  the  ownership  of  the  ongiual  "Blue 
Boy"  vested  m  Neebitt  &om  the  day  he  purchased 
the  picture  to  the  day  on  the  eve  of  his  leaving 
Heston,  about  1820,  when  be  sold,  or  placed  in  the 
hands  of  strangers  to  his  household  to  sell  for  him, 
the  "  Bine  Boy  "  and  other  effects, 

Froca  the  descriptioii  given  of  the  unwelcome 
strangera  who  were  credited  with  breaking  up 
Xeabitt's  home,  l^ere  seenis  to  be  no  doubt  they 
■were  Mr.  Wm.  Hall,  then  an  auctioneer,  and  his 
solicitor  Mr.  Ilancatt,  professedly  emploved  by 
Nesbitt,  This  concluMon  is  borne  out  by  tie  facts 
already  mentioned  about  Hall's  knowledge  of  the 
royal  antecedents  and  origiaality  of  his  "Blue 
Boy,"  and  also  hj  the  fact  that  at  his  death  three 
ftt  least  of  the  pictures  in  hispossesuon  had  been 
in  Neabitt'a  possession  at  Heston,  namely  the 
"Blue  Boy,"  the  "Flower  Girl,"  and  "Baniel 
in  the  Lion's  Deo." 

Curious  emtaphs  find  a  nicha  in  your  pages,  and 
here  is  one  by  Hall  on  bis  father,  whidi  is  illus- 
trative of  the  peculiarities  which  made  him  so 
noticeable  wherever  he  went: — 

"Waiiam  Hall,  who  disd  July  ISth,  186!,  tged  7S 
yean,  Implorai  peace. 

"  Kind  rautor,  take  todt  dbolMto  orr  or  WaA  i 
Hen  Will  HaU  lias,  but  wbara  hii  epitaph  ? 
If  iDcli  yon  mk,  try  WtatmlnMar  sod  tww 
Ai  miny  JbM  as  Bt  fin  him  u  you. 
"  Fire,  tbe  electric  ipatk,  gave  me  Ute.    Tints  reclaimed 


wife  in  the  family  gnve  near  tbe  chapel  in  Eensal 
Oreen  Cemeterr,  and  on  the  obelisk  memorial 
there  the  epitaph  can  be  seen. 

Hall  made  a  will,  but  it  was  like  himself,  a 
peculiar  one,  and  was  disputed,  first  in  Chancery 
and  finally  in  the  House  of  Lords.  Tinder  an 
order  of  the  Court  of  Chancery  his  household 
effects  were  sold  in  March  1868.  Lot  72  was  the 
"  Flower  Girl,"  and  lot  78  "  Daniel  in  the  IJon'a 
Den."  Lot  75  was  the  "Blue  Boy,"  but  cata- 
logued, as  formerly  explmned,  and  instructively 
so,  as  "A  Portrait  of  the  Prince  of  Wales,"  in 
gilt  frame.  This  &ame  was,  no  doubt,  the  one  in 
which  the  picture  had  been  ever  since  it  was 
exhibited,  for  tbe  chalk  writing  noticed  on  it  at 
Heston  thirty-eight  years  before  was  still  on  it 

At  Hall's  sale  the  "  Blue  Boy  "  was  bought  by 
Mr.  Dawson,  who  took  it  out  of  the  old  frame  and 

5ut  it  into  the  "  broader,  flatter,  sloping-off "  one 
etected  by  Nesbitt's  old  hooaekeeper.  Shortly 
after  the  sale  Dawson  offered  the  jiicture  to  tbe 
late  Marquis  of  Westminst«r,  quoting  as  its  price 
Hall's  valuation  of  it  at  1600/.,  but  eventually  he 


I  liv'd,  I  ery'd,  I  langh'd.  1  lov^d ; 
I  tit  pain  and  pkarare,  and  1  <ru : 


"  BhHed  i)  tbe  Holy  8[drit.    Amen." 

On  October  33, 1866,  the  son,  also  Wm.  Hall. 

died,  and  was  laid  beside  his  father  and  his  third 


Blue  Boy  "  has  now  been  traced  down  to  the 
present  time,  but  the  history  of  the  pale  "  Blue 
Boy  "  seems  to  resolve  itself  into  its  Orosvenor 
Qwlery  history  alone,  for  it  appears  to  have  been 
unknown  and  unheard  of  dunng  Qainaborough's 
lifetim^  or  for  many  years  after  bis  death. 

Its  originality  is  claimed  on  the  plea  that  it  was 
Nesbitt's  picture,  but  the  direct  evidence  that 
Nesbitt  had  his  picture  with  him  at  Heston  ef- 
fectually disposes  of  this  plea. 

What  then  P  If  a  copy  of  the  "  Blue  Boy  "  by 
an  unknown  artist  has  not  only  passed  as  tbe 
original  in  the  absence  of  the  original,  but  has 
been  highly  eulogised  as  a  work  of  art,  it  would 
be  a  feather  in  that  artist's  cap,  whoever  he  mi^ht 
be.  Always  subject  to  revision  by  authentic  in- 
formation, it  is  submitted  that  the  original  "Blue 
Boy  "  was  painted  at  Bath ;  exhilnted  at  tbe  TLA. 
in  1770 ;  discoursed  against  by  Sir  J.  Reynolds  in 
1778;  purchased  by  the  Prince  of  Wales  (Geo^ 
IV.),  who  sold  it  to  his  companion  John  Nesbitt, 
Esq.,  M.P.;  in  Nesbitt's  sale  in  1803;  in  Hopp- 
ner  s  hands  for  a  time  in  trust  for  Neebitt ;  in 
Neahitt's  possession  sgun  in  1815;  sold  by  Nes- 
biU  when  he  left  Heston  about  1830  to  Hall;  in 
Hall's  sale  in  1868  as  "  a  porbait  of  the  Prince 
of  Wales,"  when  it  was  bought  by  Dawson,  who 
sold  it  to  its  present  possessor. 

Upon  the  whole  sabieet  the  conclosions  are — 
(1.)  That  the  pale  "Blue  Boy"  is  not  tbe  ori- 
^nal  picture,  and  (2)  that  the  green  "Blue Boy" 
is  the  original  picture,  and  justly  entitled  to  the 
"  Blue  Blband  "  of  the  Fine  Arts. 

J.  SSWELL,  Assoc.  IlWt,0.1ie)  |(^ 
Thi  Lombard,  E.C.  -rv'^^^ii^ 


394 


NOTES  AND  QT7ERIES. 


[4*8.Tn.JUT6,'n. 


The  lielief  that »  foot-note  id  Edwuda'i  Anec 
data  of  Fawttrt,  in  1606  or  1807,  is  the  sole 
Midiontf  for  uRng  the  name  of  Buttall  uthar  as 
the  model  or  owner  of  the  originAl  "  Blue  Botj" 
isflertainl;  erroiieous,  for  "Jocluoa  of  Ezetei  in 
a  notica  of  Ounsborough  wrote — "  Perhaps  his 
beat  portrait  ia  tltat  known  unon^  the  painters 
bj  the  name  of 'Blue  Boy.'  It  was  in  the  poaaea- 
Bion  of  Mr.  Buttall,  near  Newport  Uarket"  I 
ouote  these  words  from  Cunningbam's  JAv»*  of 
■EmJJMwt  EngUAmtn  (tL  140),  where  the  descrip- 
tion of  Gainsborough  is  mainly  borrowed  from 
"  Jackson  of  Exeter."  No  reference  is  there  given 
to  the  nature  of  Jackson's  publication,  whence  the 
extracts  bjto  taken ;  but,  as  Jacksca  was  a  personal 
friend  ot  Qainsborouab,  he  probabW  wrote  about 
him  not  long  after  his  dsatb  in  1788.  At  all 
events,  as  Jackson  himself  died  in  1803,  the  name 
of  Buttall  in  connection  with  the  "Blue  Boj" 
clearlv  preceded  the  "Edwards"  foot -note  of  1806 
«r  1807.  A.  B.  Middlbtoh. 

Tlte  CloM,  Saliibary. 


WHT  DOES  A  HEWLT  BOBS  CHILD  CRT? 

(i.<^  S.  TiL  211,  389.) 
The  passage  &om  Goldsmith  which  Clabbt 


B.1), 


oc  1),  aaa  occurs  m  i 
and  Honejwood : — 


1  the  Good-natund  Mm  (Act  1. 
in  the  dialogue  between  Cromer 


"  Cm.  Llh  at  the  greatctt  and  beat  is  bat  a  rioward 
4^ild,  that  moM  be  humaared  and  cuazed  a  little  till  it 
falls  asleep,  sod  then  all  the  care  Is  over. 

-Ha        "- 


'™«l.  Very  tnw,  sir;  noHilng  can   excMd   the 

/efonrexutencebntthafallToroarparanils.  We 

wept  when  we  i:anie  into  the  WMld,  and  srerr  day  leUs 

CoABLXa  WlXIK. 

Bichard  Kolle  de  Hampole,  in  bis  Ftickt  of 
Ccmidance  (SUmidtu  ConteteiitUe),  baa  the  follow- 
ing linea  on  this  aalject : — 
476  "  For  Dnnethea  m  a  child  bem  tatiy 

Nt  It  ns  bTgTnnes  to  gDole  and  cry; 

And  by  )«U  dv  naa  knav  ^aa 

Whether  it  be  man  or  nman, 
480  For  when  it  es  bom  it  crj«  svi : 

iritbemanltsaj's'AA.' 

t*t  )n  flrat  letter  ea  or )«  nam 

or  our  forme-fader  Adam. 
4S4  And  if  ba  child  a  Woman  b^ 

When  It  as  bom  it  says  •  £,  E.' 

E.  •>  t«  flnt  letter  and  t-e  bade 

Of  >fl  name  of  Eve  tat  bygan  onr  deda. 
4S8  >arfbr  a  dark  nuids  on  Ms  manere 

Ha  vers  of  Dietre  |«t  es  wreteo  here : 


'  AUe  t«a,'  be  mqts,  ■  t>at  oomes  of  En, 
49a  )>at  es  al  man  Jwt  here  byhova  lere, 

Wben  fiti  er  bora  what-swa  bai  bcb 

M  sty  oulher  A.  A.  or  E.  E.' 

)nu  a  here  >«  bygjmnyng 
496  Of  onr  lyfii  aarrow  and  gretyng, 

Til  wbllk  oar  wncbednaa  MirraB  ns ; 

And  ^attbi  Innocent  sayi  his : 


1  aorawfol  sambland, 
604  For  lo  shew  i>e  grele  wreobadaea 
Ofoorkyndtat  In  nses."* 

J.  F.  MOBSIS. 
17,  SdUoo  Street,  Tna  Brook,  LiverpooL 


"Weai 


crying  hither : 

Then  know'st,  the  flnt  time  that  we  smell  the  air 
Wa  wawle  and  cry." 

"  When  «s  ara  born,  we  erv  that  we  are  come 

To  this  great  stage  of  foola.' 

Warton,  in  his  "ObaerratioDa  tm  King  Zear," 

quotes  the  lines  from  Lnoetins,  with  Drrden's 

toanslation.    (See  Drake's  Mmtorial*  af  Sh^kw 

^ear»,  p.  336.)  T.  McGrath, 


TBE  WHITE  TOWEB  OF  LOXDON. 
(4"'S.  viLail,309.> 

It  has  been  generally  considered  that  the  White 
Tower  was  the  nucleus  of  the  Tower  of  London. 
It  was  known  in  the  twelfth  century  that  during 
the  Saxon  period  there  was  a  tower  in  this  loc^ty; 
learned  men  of  the  seventeenth  and  eigbteentb 
centuries  termed  it  Gssaar's  Tower ;  and  in  the 
present  century  good  authorities  have  assigned  to 
It  a  higher  andquitj  than  the  Norman  penod- 

The  importance  of  this  tower  has  always  been 
appreciated  by  the  ruling  powers  of  the  natioo, 
insomuch  that  from  the  earliest  times  few  of  our 
public  building  have  had  more  real  care  bestowed 
upon  their  mamtenance ;  and  until  within  a  corn- 


faced  them  with  Portland  stone.  The  thickness 
of  the  mortar  joints  allowed  of  small  flints  b^ng 
driven  into  the  joints  when  the  building  was 

CCed)  and  in  other  respects  the  walla  have 
rep«red,  when  needfiu,  to  make  good  the 
defects  of  age. 

The  BonUi-west  angle  of  the  original  wicb- 
spreading  basement  remuns;  the  rest  of  the  projec- 
tion has  either  been  removed  for  the  convenienoe 
of  making  additions,  or  may  poanbly  stUl  exiot 
beneath  the  superincumbent  accumulation  of 
raised  ground. 

Although  the  action  of  the  London  atmosphere 
has  corroded  the  aoifaae  of  tbe  White  Towcc,  it 
ia  plun  that  the  bnttroaaaa  were  built  of  hewn 


maaoniy  for  about  twenty  feet  upwards  tttaa  the 
plinth,  and  that  two  courses  oE  hewn  masoD^ 
were  laid  immediately  over  the  plinth. 


•  S-Vir.  Mat  6, 71.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


395 


The  staircMe  (maldiift  due  kllowaiice  fca  Om 
addition  of  some  openingt,  and  for  the  alteratioiu 
of  othen)  ia  leae  moderaised  than  the  net  of  the 
stroctore,  sod  affords  a  clae  to  the  general  con- 
•tmction  of  the  maRonr;  throughout  the  build- 
ing, aa  moat  have  been  perceptible  to  practical 
jteisona  who  have  had  the  opportunity  of  ezamin- 
ing  the  portions  which,  from  time  to  time,  hare 
bmn  laid  bare  during  the  tepuia  effocted  within 
the  last  thirty  jean. 

The  chapel  occupies  one  fourth  pait  of  the  area 
of  the  White  Tower,  which  fourth  part  only  was 
vaulted,  and  that  for  three  stories  in  height.  The 
aignificant  importance  thoa  given  to  a  fourth  part 
of  the  whole  huildiug,  raises  a  question  as  to  the 
primary  object  of  the  etructure,  and  suggests,  in 
the  first  instance,  a  reasonable  conjecture,  namely, 
that  the  White  Tower  was  built  for  what  b  now 
called  the  chapel,  and  not  the  chapel  for-the 
White  Tower.  On  the  authority  of  Sir  Christo- 
pher Wren  *  the  chapel  is  older  than  the  Conquest. 
and  BO  Romanesque  are  its  few  architectural 
features  Uiat  archtealogista,  fuling  to  find  the 
usual  Kormon  ornaments,  are  driven  to  deaoribe 
its  details  in  terms  appertuning  to  classical  archi- 
tecture, such  as  Ionic  and  Corinthian;  and  further, 
in  Older  to  uphold  the  foregone  conclusion  that 
the  White  Tower  is  a  Norman  building,  the 
attention  of  euperfidal  readers  is  diverted  by  at 
once  pronouncing  the  chapel  to  be  the  earliest 
and  simplest,  as  well  as  the  most  complete,  Nor- 
man chapel  in  Britain. 

The  vaulted  apartment  immediately  under  the 
chapel,  now  an  armoury,  is  entered  by  a  wide 
archway  on  the  south,  the  original  entrance  hav- 
ing been  through  a  small  doorway  on  the  opposite 
aide.  This  once  plaiiv  apartment  u  now  decorated 
with  the  "  Norman "  chevron  or  zifr-iag  orna- 
ment. The  walb  of  the  small  chamber^  in  the 
thickness  of  the  north  wall  were  bare  in  1867, 
end  showed  the  method  of  their  construction ;  a 
portion  of  Uie  arch  of  the  vault  was  then  also 

The  vaulted  apartment  under  the  armouir  was 
used  as  a  powder  magazine.  The  rest  of  theoase- 
ment  was  vaulted  in  modem  time;  the  vaults 
were  built  around  the  poets  which  previously  sup- 
ported the  floor  over  the  basemen^  and  wnen  no 
longer  required  the  lower  tier  of  poets  was  re- 
moved. 

Whatever  alterations  the  Normans  may  have 
made  in  the  White  Tower,  or  whatever  buildings 
they  may  have  erected  aronnd  it,  their  worii  soon 
crumbled  away,  while  that  of  the  fourteenth  and 
■fifteenth  centuries  proved  durable.    The  Royal 


Sappers  and  Hineis  of  the  nineteentfa  century  had 
experience  of  the  labour  and  difficulty  of  cutting 
a  tunnel  throi^  twentj^-fonr  feet  of  Roman 
wall  The massiveptoportionB and  the prodi^ona 
strength  of  the  White  Tower  are  amonff  the 
strongest  evidences  of  the  building  being  Roman 
and  Not  Nobiuit. 


A'  BECKETS  MDEDEREE3. 
(4*^  S.  vii.  33, 171, 196, 268.) 
Mb.  TowRSHKirD  Mavxb  refers  to  a  Somerset 
tradition  of  the  aasasrins,  four  in  number — Brito, 
Morwell,  Tracy,  and  Reginald  Ktr  Uiee — having 
fled  to  a  remote  part  of  this  shire,  and  there  built 
an  abbey.  We  would  direct  attention  to  another 
Scotch  tradition,  as  contained  in  Timothy  Font's 
Ouninghawte  TopograjMaed,  one  of  the  BaUbur 
H3S.  in  the  Advocates'  Library,  written  about 
1600.  It  is  drcumstantial,  and  seems  in  part 
founded  on  the  register  of  the  monastery  of  Kil- 
winning, Ayrshire,  which,  although  not  now 
known  bo  exist,  was  oertainly  perused  by  Pont 
during  his  survey,  aa  well  as  by  others  at  a  later 

In  the  first  place,  Pont  says  ttiat  the  "toun 
and  place  "  where  this  abbey  stood,  considerable 
fragments  of  which  still  remain,  was  /ormeHy 
named  Segdoune,  "  as  the  foundation  (charter  P) 
of  the  said  monastery  bears  record."     He  then 


(being  one  of  Uum),  In  the  Baliu 


Scotls  King  velcamtd,  and  honoared  with  ye  office 
Grata  Conatable  of  Scotland,  m  also   inricheil  with  ys 
Locdsohlpa  or  CoDiogbams,  Latgis  and  I^uderidaHl." 

Pont  adds  also: — 

"  Now  the  forts''  Richard  bdnK,  si  vald  seime,  tnochcd 
with  compnetlone  fbr  ve  taKy  of  hea  uiile  (BGCording  to 
the  tnutome  of  thate  ty m»},  did  fbond  this  Abb«y  of 
Killvinnln  in  tattimiKiy  of  hu  repcmtuiaa." 

The  author  furtier  says  that — 

"  The  fcander  thereof.  Sir  B.  Morwill.  layes  interrid 
in  the  UBW  oemetety  of  thig  charcb  nndar  ■  tome  of 
lymeilena  framed  oofflowirgg  of  old  pollisfawt  vo^a; 
wiUi  this  coal«  (■  /rit  Is  bera  flgnred)  one  the  stooe, 
without  any  supencriptiono  or  apitaphe." 

How,  what  is  particularly  desirable  to  be  known 
is,  what  can  be  alleged  favourable  to,  or  agunst, 
these  etataments  f 

We  may  be  permitted,  meantime,  to  aay  that  it 
ia  generally  believed  that  oot  Sir  Richard,  but  his 
faUier,  Sir  Hugh,  vvaa  Ibmider  of  this  mmuuteij 
at  an  earlier  period  1^  tUr^  yean  or  more, 
namely  about  1140,  than  that  of  the  murder  of 
A'  Becket,  which  is  genetally  assigned  to  the  even- 
ing of  Dec.  39,  1170.  It  is  alao  known  aeMaitdy 
that  Sir  Hogh  held  the  office  of  High  Constable 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*S.VII.>UtS,'71. 


s; 


under  David  L,  haviDg  succeeded  Edirard  Koni 
tberein.  It  is  also  scnrcelj  in  doubt  that  Sir 
Hugh  had  a  grant  of  the  three  great  poaaesdouB 
mentioned,  which  Font  says  were  conferred  upon 
the  Bon  Sir  Kichaid,  but  to  which  Sir  Richard 
no  doubt  succeeded ;  and  it  must  be  exceedingly 

iiieetionable  whether  the  then  Scots kiug(Williain 
la  Lion,  the  grandson  of  Bavid)  would  be  inclined 
to  welcome  a  murderer  of  A'  Becket,  and  for  such 
an  act  to  reward  him  overtlj  with  rarioiu  laive 
poaaeBsioDa.  Besides,  it  is  almost  universally  al- 
lowed that  the  name  of  De  Morerille,  the  mur- 
derer, was  notRichaid,  but  Hugh.  An  interestiDg 
query  aiisei,  which  some  of  your  correepondeots 
no  doubt  will  be  able  to  answer,  and  in  this :  In 
what  relationship,  if  any,  did  the  murderer  Mor- 
well  stand  to  Sir  Hugh,  Bigh  Constable  of  Scot- 
land under  David  I.  and  who  died  in  1162  P  As 
appears,  8ir  Hugh  had  a  son,  also  named  Hugh, 
but  of  whom,  as  belief  runs,  next  to  nothing  is 
blown  beyond  the  fact  of  bis  having  witnessed  a 
charter  recorded  in  one  of  the  monastic  chartula- 
riea  along  with  hia  father,  in  which  he  is  designed 
'■  '      '  '  '  "  itSir 


but  since  two  Hushs  are  found  existing,  there  may 
be  some  doubt  whether  Sir  Richard  wns  the  son 
of  the  first  or  of  the  second,  and  which  of  these, 
consequently,  it  was  who  died  in  1163,  Sir 
Bichard's  death  took  place  in  1189.  Reference 
is  made  to  Sir  James  Balfour's  "  Catalogue  of  the 
Great  Constables  of  Scotland ''  which  ia  to  be 
found  in  Dalzell's  JVo^nunfi  of  Saittuh  Hutary, 
annexed  to  the  preface. 

Regarding  the  orimi  of  Segdonne,  the  ancient 
name  of  the  rite  of  the  abbey,  and  town  of  Kil- 
winning, we  would  much  desire  the  views  of 
J.  Gk.  R.,  Hr.  Chakaocx,  Mb.  Pkttoh,  or 
others,  your  philological  corresnondents.  Pont 
says  the  river  Qamouc  "  gl^ds  netwizt  ye  toune 
and  the  abbey  " — that  is,  did  so  when  he  wrote. 
Cottsequently,  the  name,  this  view  being  assumed 
as  correct,  applied  to  both  banlu  of  the  Gamock, 
on  the  west  of  which  was  tlie  abbey,  upon  riang 
ground,  part  of  a  ridge,  situated  in  a  plam  of  con- 
siderable extent,  and  forming  a  promontory  over- 
hangina:  thisriver.  The  abbey  is  also  cloeeby  St. 
Vuuun^B  Holy  Cell  and  Well,  the  latter  of  which 
was  famous  fur  portending  war  or  strife,  inasmuch 
aa  Hoveden  relates  that,  in  1184,  it  ran  blood  for 
eijriit  days  and  nighta  in  succeasion.  St  Vinnin 
(Wionmg)  was  an  Irish  siunt,  descended  of  a 
princely  race,  and  whose  arrival  here  is  ascribed  to 
the  bc«inning  of  the  dg^tb  century.  Some  have 
hdd  Uat  S^oune  ia  oompted  from  Sanctonn 
(Sainfa-town,  or  Sandy-town  P),  but  the  abbey 
ate  would  rather  suggest  another  origin  for  the 
affix  dotmt,  and  point  to  the  existence  of  a  dun, 
rath,  or  hillfort ;  aach  andent  works  of  a  Celtic 
nee  being  by  no  means  uncommon  in  the  district. 


There  is  a  Semedun,  or  S^doun,  on  the  Tay, 
near  Perth,  and  at  one  time  the  ute  of  an  hos- 
pital (Spotiswoode's  Sdigiou*  Homa.)  Tbs 
ssme  name  was,  it  is  said,  applied  to  Aberoiothoc 
(Arbroath),  where  a  monastery  was  founded  by 
William  the  Lion  in  honour  of  A'  Becket,  uil 
colonised  by  the  same  order  of  monks  as  Eilmt- 
ningj  and  Seggiednronaii,  now  Wallaend,  is  at 
the  north  end  of  Hadrian'a  Wall.  It  can  hsn% 
be  believed  that  this  kin«  would  ao  honour  tu 
memory  of  A'  Beckett,  and  also  receive,  protBC*, 
and  reward  one  of  his  niurderera.  So,  doubting 
much  Pont's  views,  we  wait  in  the  hope  of  reeav- 
ing  the  opimoos  of  others.  Sspbusk. 

Your  correspondent  doubtless  refers  to  Wood- 

Sring  Priory,  which  is  popularly  assodated  with 
e  murder  of  the  archbishop.  Its  present  rains 
stand  in  about  the  centre  of  a  Bmall  bav  on  the 
Bristol  Channel,  which  lies  between  Cleredon 
and  Weston-Ruper-Msre,  and  may  be  viated  from 
either  of  these  places.  The  ruin  is  virible  from 
Anchor-faend  St  the  latt«r.  It  is  thus  spoken  of 
in  Whereat's  Handbook  to  JFegtm-tuper-Men:— 
"  Apart  rrom  the  ibodes  of  men,  lone,  soliUiy,  ind 
recnored  from  all  fVequented  ttiaronghfin,  with  >  dnvy 
plain  on  the  mntb,  uid  tbe  net,  vuhing  the  renulnfi* 
ajdea  of  the  cliff,  vu  tho  stem,  gloomy,  and  nnindtrng 
site  of   tlie  Hmuteiv.      Let  us  briefly  b' 


The    blood  of  Thomi 


A'flectet  s 


vaulted  pavemeDt  of  thiCitbednlCburch  of  CvitSTbnir. 
and  in  ihU  far-off  wiM  arosa  ■  holy  pile  dedicated  to  tbt 
maidered  eaiot,  in  atoneincat  for  tiia  aacrilegioai  crime. 


It  wM  about  1210  that  William  de  Coortenaj. 

who  was  neariy  aitied  to  (qu.  one  of)  (be  uaaa.'dnttDn  c£ 
the  conoQiied  Archbiahop,  founded  this  monastery :  and 
'-  — -  -ibeequantly   —»-'--■  -       ■        -      -        -—  -" 


miKbt  cleann  the  deep  ttain  -Df  fruilt  which  dukiD^ 
their  memoriea,  and,  according  to  the  auperadtioiis  beln 
of  tbe  tiuMS,  remova  their  aonla  trom  the  peril  of  par- 
gatoty." 

The  monastery  whs  one  of  those  depopulated  a 
the  days  of  Henry  VIII.,  and  by  degrees  fell  into 
decay.  The  book  above  quoted,  describes  at  bOTA 
length  the  condition  of  the  ruins,  now  converted 
into  farm  buildings ;  but  as  it  is  not  of  very  recent 
date,  I  do  not  copy  the  account.    Probably  •w* 

recent    guide    or  local  topogi«pby  m*? 

satisfactory  detail. 

ill,  however,  quote  part  of  an  extract  oW 
book  fumisbes  conceminj;  "  a  curious  leiio  « 
antiquity"  found  in  repairing  the  north  wall  « 
Kewstoke  church,  adjacent  to  Woodspriog,  «» 
is  associated  with  the  archtuahop's  murder.  » i* 
from  a  paper  by  the  Rev.  F.  Warre  : — 

"In  tbeftmt  la  carved  a  figure  in  an  arcbed  "i^ 
baviDg  Bbafts  of  eariy  EngUah  chancier.  Thia  ^^ 
the  ftoi  of  which  seenu  to  ba>e  beea  pnrpoKlv  smtilslM, 


T'a 


liacit  was  dlaetrvend  an  ardied  i 


D  pnrpes^  ' 
t,  la  tti  hands.    — 
I,  within  irbich  * 


hnmaii  blood.    Thia  rdiqotry 


SeontainiDg  what  was  lawweaH*^ 
rdiqotry  waa  manifiMir  «  ••'^ 


4<kS. Til.  Mats,'; 


.  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


397 


date  iban  the  will  Into  which  It  was  buUI,  and  appaan 
from  tba  cardials  of  Iti  ahalti  Dead?  to  comapoad  In 
■tvls  with  that  in  ate  about  tha  tlaw  of  the  dadieation  of 
WoodnniDg.  The  optniOD  oT  the  AnhMohwicil  Instl- 
tnte  of  Ureat  Britain  and  Inland,  to  which  it  ^a«  snb- 
nltled,  waa,  tbat  it  probably  contained  tha  molt  valued 
Klie  poueiaed  by  tha  prloir — probably  aome  of  ttie  blood 
of  Thomaa  A'Becket  —  and  that  tha  monka,  (i>rei*eing 
tht  deaacration  of  tiielr  conveDtnal  chorcb,  depoilted  it 
in  the  parish  oborch  of  Kewatoka.  h<^iiE  by  tfali  meana 
to  prasecre  IVoin  profanation  a  relio,  in  their  eyaa  of  tba 
greattat  aanctity,  beinf(  no  lees  then  the  blood  of  their 
moidend  patroti,  St  Tliomai  of  Canterbury."  - 

iiy  extracts  seem  lengthy,  but  I  am  the  more 
anxious  to  sapply  them,  SaTiog  referred  to  Wood- 
spring  Prioiy  when  unsble  to  collect  an^  details 
of  it,  in  mj  note  on  the  Efiacombe  traditiotu  in 
connectioD  with  WOlism  de  Tracy,  one  of  the 
archbishop's  murderers  (4*  S.  ti.  217,  2ia) 
Permit  me  to  take  this  opportimity  of  correctiag 
a  misprint  therein.  Every  one  who  knows  Ilfro- 
Gomb  will  have  remembered  that  it  is  a  cods  not 
lane,  which  is  traditioDally  pointed  out  as  the 
place  of  bis  concealment  S.  M.  S. 


been  a  gem-enrnve 
B  about  the  middle  o 


PoBTBT  OF  THB  CtouDS  (4*  g.  vii.  319.)— Wl 
does    not   remember    Coleridge's   sonnet    con 
mendng — 
■■  O  it  la  pleaaant,  with  a  heart  at  eaM, 

Just  after  anoaet,  or  by  moonligbt  akiea. 

To  make  the  abi/ting  clonda  be  what  yon  pleaae,"  &e.- 
<tr  the  Oxford  graduate's  eloquent  pictures  of 
cloud-scenery,  in  all  its  varieties  of  cloud-beauty, 
clnud-balancings,  cloud-flocks,  clond-pernwctive, 
cloud-colours,  he.  ?  A  German  writer,  Heinrich 
Uotz,  has  treated  of  the  feeling  for  the  beautiful 
in  nature  amon^  the  ancients  m  a  small  volume, 
published  at  Leipiig  in  1866,*  and  quot«s  many 
passages  from  Greek  and  Latin  authors  in  sup- 

Sort  of  his  theme.  Humboldt,  in  his  Cotmoa, 
avotes  many  pages  to  "Poetic  Descriptions  of 
Nature  by  toe  Greeks,  liomanit,"  &c,  (see  Col. 
Sabine's  translation,  vol.  ii.);  and  if  your  corre- 
spondent has  not  chanced  to  meet  with  these 
works,  I  would  beg  to  refer  him  to  them. 

J.  Macbat. 


paasBge  in  Shakespeare  (^Atiioni/  and  Cleopatra, 
IT.  12).  In  the  Vanorwn  of  1821  a  few  parallels 
are  giren  from  Chapman  and  others  (xii.  368).  I 
liave  no  doubt  that  Shakespeare  had  this  "claud- 
scenery ''  in  his  mind  when  ne  wrote  those  familiar 
lines  in  The  Tatted  (iT.  1, 161-8).  Some  editors 
have  altered  "Tack"to  "wreck''in  the  "leave 
not  a  rack  behind."  But  compare  "  the  rack  dia- 
lirans"  in  the  Antony  and  Cleopatra 


A  QS>L  QUBRT:  PiCHLEB  (4*  S.  Tii.  822.)— 
PicUer  (probably  a  German)  was,  about  a  cen- 
tury ago,  an  eminent  gem-engraver  at  Rome,  I 
do  not  know  that  he  always  inscribed  his  name  in 
Greek  letters  i  but  a  peiBon  well  informed  on  the 
subject  told  me  that  he  had  seen  A  ntXAKP  en- 
graved on  several  of  his  works.  B,  T, 

Pichler  appears  to  hav 
of  Mme  celebrity  in  Roi 
the  laat  century :  — 

"  The  demand  for  Dehn's  gnlphnr  and  paate  iniprea- 
aioiu  became  ao  great  at  that  time,  and  their  utility  fct 
tha  scholar,  artist,  and  Jeweller  ao  evident,  tliaC  the  arc 
of  making  them  roae  into  high  estimation ;  and  even 
eminent  artista,  Boch  as  Mr.  Piohler  and  otbera  of  Rome, 
thoogbt  it  no  disgrace,  bat  rather  an  adTantage  to  Oi-i-- 

art,  to  eawat  the  oonnoiwer-— "■-  — '-■- "  -  -  - 

prsatioai  of  the  ancient  g 

of  Aneift  lad  Modern  Eigrmtd  Gou,  j-c.,  by  Jamaa 
TaaalB,  &c   YoL  i^  Introduc.  IviiL   London,  uoccxci. 
K.C. 
Cork. 


atnii  CbiUetioH 


FbKHCK  WhlbtIIT  UASAZDfX  (i*^ 


25.) 


Rnatington,  r 
Ahtn.    Ton  Heinilch  Moti. 


Ira  passaM. 
Jomr  Audi 
n  UtlMiaiBpfain,  Siuaax, 


,.   ,.     itmuously  been  printed  and 

published  at  Kimee,  and,  during  the  investment 
of  Paris,  the  MS.  was  sent  there  from  the  capital 
by  pigeon  poet  This  has  been  stated  to  me  by 
one  of  the  Wesleyan  body,  but  J.  F.  H.  can  satisly 
himself  about  this  and  the  numbers  he  deeiree  to 
see  by  inquiiy  at  the  Wesleyan  Mission  House  in 
Bishopsgate  Street  H  F.  J, 

J.  F.  H.  will  obtain  all  the  information  be  may 
require  ftom  the  Rev.  Matthew  Galljenne,  Jersey, 
who  is  the  editor  of  such  magazine. 

Saxusl  Walkke. 

1,  EighBeld  Place,  Bradfoid. 

Tkk  Trrmih AUDIT  "dks  "  ni  th»  Wxald  of 
Kwrr  (4'*  8.  y.  fi60 ;  vi.  16.)— Kemble  has  enor- 
moDsly  understated  the  number  of  "  dens  "  in  the 
Weald.  Hr.  R  Furley,  F.8.A.,  in  the  pi«bce  to 
his  history  of  this  district,  says,  "  The  manor  of 
Aldington  alone  poaMSsee  forty-four  dene*  t " 

Okosob  Bxdo. 

Masuaobs  of  EiTGLiaH  Pbqtobssbs  (4'*  S,  vii. 
203,  289,  S09.)— I  beUeve  the  following  list  of 
daughters  or  sisters  of  the  reigning  sovereigti, 
who  have  married  ^tish  subjects,  is  oori«ct  a* 
br  as  it  goes ;  and,  without  beang  sure,  I  believe 
it  is  complete.  I  have  copied  it  from  two  cliarta 
in  my  posanseion :  — 


S.  Beatrice,  d«aghtCT,maiTied  John  da  Dreui,DBkg  of  \'*^^ 
Bilttany,  Franot^  and  Earl  of  Bldunond,  Eoglaod. 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


|;4*S.VII.MiY6,7I. 


8.  Joan,  itag^ter,  Dunled  Qilbtrt  it  CUn^  Eari  of 
QloQcutar ;  Monid,  nuuried  B^ph  d«  Hoattaarmu'. 

i,  Elizabeth,  daughter,  mimed  John  Earl  or  HoUaod ; 
McoDd,  muiied  Hninphniy  Bobtui,  £ul  of  Hereford. 

S.  Eleanor,  dangbter,  married  He " '-  "■ 

Fnnea  (who,  I  believe,  held  righti  ai 


S.  iMbelia,  daoghttr,   maniad  Da  Conrer,   Sari  of 
Badfiad. 

married  John  Hastings,  Earl  of 


9.  Amw,    sster,  married   Heni^  HoUaad,  Ooke   of 
Ezctn;  noosd,  married  Sir  Thoa.  ds  Letter. 

9.  BUtfbeth,  situr,  nunied  John  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of 
SnOblk. 

10.  OeiHa,  daaf^ter,  married  John  Vlsoonnt  Wdls ) 
seoond,  married  Tbos.  Kjmbe. 

11.  Anne,  daughter,  married  Thoa.  Howard,  Duke  of 
Noiiblk. 

18.  Callwrine,  daughter,  married  Wm.  Coniteoy,  Eail 
of  DeroD. 


Duke  of  Suffolk. 


d  huibaad,  Chailca 
JuittiNbfos. 


.      Alderier. 

P.  aflka  if  all  descefidftnta  of  a  rojral  pnDoe  or 
piincesa'  have  a  right  to  quaitar  the  royal  annsP 
Ceitajnlj  not,  unleaa  the  royal  peraon  was  an 
hoireaa,  for  it  is  the  doacendaota  of  heireaaea  only 
who  have  e  right  to  quarter  anna.  P.  P. 

Out  SoHoa  AjTD  BiiLiM  (4'"  a  vi  47,  811.)— 
Thanka  to  Ue.  Jacesoit  for  hia  infomutioD ;  hut, 
speakiDg  under  ocaraetiaD,  I  Tentute  to  think  that 
be  exasgeratee.  No  auch  collection  of  old  aonga 
u  he  deacribea,  whether  Eagliah,  Irish,  or  Sootch 
{nothing  aj^proaching  to  it  in  any  degree),  has 
eyer  come  in  mj  way.  Take,  for  example,  Mr. 
Robert  Chamben's  oollectaon  of  ScettiA  &mg* 
h^mrt  Burnt,  or  the  collectiiuis  of  Measn.  Mwd- 
ment  and  Logan,  or  any  ot  the  multitudinoaa 
flocka  of  "Linnets,"  "Larka,"and"Ni^htii^|alea," 
which  gave  forth  their  varying  stfauu  for  the 
amuaament  of  the  hygona  generatioDS.  Here  and 
there  one  may  light  upon  «  coarse  p»tch  in  auch 
oollectioiu,  but  tbair  general  character  aa  to  morsls 
ia  praCict  iimooence.  None  of  the  three  aoo^n 
mentioned  by  Hb.  Jtcssoir  have  I  ever  so  much 
aa  heard  of  before,  still  less  read  in  print  Mr 
nottcu  was  that  the  original  songs,  fiom  which 
Bnina  and  Moora  borrowed  and  adapted  their  aire, 
were  in  the  main  simply  characteristio  of  the 
homely  joys,  rural  humours,  political  eeutiments, 
and  rusbo  manners  of  the  peoaanby  of  the  two 
countries  respectiTelv  during  the  previoua  century. 
In  th«t  view,  popular  songa  form  always  a  most 
Taloable  department  of  the  national  Cterature. 
Perhaps  the  fact  of  my  reading  life  having  been 


spMt  for  the  most  pact  in  this  part  of  the  vrorld 
has  debarred  me  fiom  enjoyipe  that  pecnliar 
speaes  of  Uteraiy  study  to  whion  Ms.  JAOKStHr 

aUudea.  All  the  same,  I  should  like  to  have  a 
Bight  of  the  printed  words  of  such  songs  as  "  The 
Satde  of  A^an  Uore,"  "The  Humours  of  Castle 
Lyons,"  "The  FuirQueen,"  "The  Kpar'a  Dance," 
» The  Twisting  of  the  Rope,"  and  even  "  The 
Little  Bold  Fox,"  to  say  nothing  of  "Planxty 
Kelly"  and  "The  Humours  of  Glynn," 

D.  B1.AI& 
MelbonrlM. 

"LiuWBBR  HoRATitra"  (4**  S.  vii.  324.)  — 
This  i«  one  of  the  Geraian  "  student  songs."  Tlw 
following  are  the  words :  — 

"  Lanriger  Hanttlna,  quam  dixiiU  vemm  t 

Fo^t  £nro  cilios  tempaa  edax  reiam  E 
"  UU  Kint,  D  pocnla  dnJciora  melle, 

Rixn,  pax  et  OHula  robends  poellsa  ? 
"  Creeoit  nva  molhter  et  pndla  cresdt ; 

Sed  polita  turpiter  siHens  oaaeseit. 
"Quid  jDvat  stemitas  nominia.  aioara 
Nigi  tern  Alias  licet  et  potare  ?  " 
It  is  sung  to  the  same  air  as  Walter  Mapes'  sonc 
"  Mihi  est  propositum,"  also  a  "  student  song." 
I  have  the  music  of  both.  Oywbk. 

.  Forth  yr  Aur,  CamarroD. 

The  song  "  Lfturiger  Horatius  "  will  be  found 
m  any  of  the  many  editions  of  the  Commenhuck, 
or  book  ti  songs  used  by  the  German  students, 
from  whom  it  must  have  been  adopted  by  the 
memben  of  the  American  university  to  which 
voQT  correspondent  refsrs.  An  edition  of  this 
book  is  puUiahed  by  B.  0.  Teubnei,  Lupiig,  with 
muaie,  for  three  shillings.  K  C.  Thoiub. 

Trin.  ColL,  Oibrd. 

"  The  Suit  iteteb  sxtb  on  thb  Bbitibh  Do- 
Hiwioire"  (4*8.  ii.  5S6;  vii.  310,  293.)  — Ca- 
moens,  whose  ZummJ  was  published  thirty-six 
years  betbre  Fuller  was  bom,  says  of  the  Porta- 
guese  empire  that  the  sun  looks  upon  it  when  it 
risea,  it  atiU  beholds  it  at  midday,  and  when  it 
sets  it  sets  behind  it    The  words  are :  — 
"  Voe,  poderoso  Rel,  cnjo  alto  Impario 
O  lol,  logo  naaoando,  vg  prineiro, 
Veio  tambem  no  mdo  do  hemiapbarli^ 


They  occur  in  the  noble  addms  to  his  king,  thft 
unfortunata  Don  Sebostiaii,  in  tlie  eighth  stanift 
of  the  first  canto.  QoBX. 

Okbkb:  Bostox  (4*  S.  viL  SB,  167,  305.)  — 
Besides  the  varieties  of  the  game  of  ombre,  or 
hombre,  mentioned  by  your  oorre^ondents,  I  find 
the  followioK  nomad  in  the  "  Dictionnaire  dea 
Jeux "  of  the  Sncuelopfdie  trUthodiqm,  Paris, 
1792 : — Moucbe,  m^diateur  or  quadrille,  quintiUe, 
and  solitaire,  aim  piqu4-mddrille,  described  as  in- 
termediate between  mMiateur  and  piquet    In- 


iU'S.VlI.  MatB,'?!,] 


NOTES  AND  QUEKIES. 


atrnctioiu  and  ralea  fbr  the  sarenl  Tsrieties  are 
mven  at  ereat  length.  Boston  U  DOt  nentioued. 
But "  wiahk  bostonien,"  a  Tariely  of  whist,  and 
baviiig  no  resemblance  to  ombre.  C.  Q.  C. 

"HaiET  OF  Heists":  "Libht  ot  Lishis" 
(4»  S.  vii.  863.)— A  stiU  more  serious  error  of  a 
similar  kind  to  tiiat  noticed  by  Lord  Chblhsfobs 
is  observable  in  what  ought  to  be  a  book  founded 
on  CBreful  theoh^.  In  Hymn*  Ancient  and 
Modtm,  No.  137,  we  aie  bidden  to  mng  — 
"  Light  of  lights  \  with  ajoming  ahine  " ; 


"Light oflighta!  irtmn fill* Uu ei 


__.!  the  Niceoe  Creed  either 

Endiah,  for  Uiere  *&t  h  *mi>,  and  "  Light  of 
Light,"  coDTej  a  Teir  different  meaning  from 
that  pren  bj  Uie  plnitd  of  the  hymn.     J.  H.  B. 

LosD  CHBLMsmKii  is  unquestioaably  right  in 
objecting  to  this  phrase  as  commonly  uaed,  uiough 
I  write  with  the  uneaay  consciousness  of  having 
niTself  often  tripped  in  the  matter  in  company 
with  those  of  whom  he  complains.  We  need 
not  look  further  for  the  cause  of  the  blmider 
than  in  the  ignorance  of  the  majority  uung  the 

Shrase  of  the  passage  &om  which  it  is  taken. 
luoting  at  second  hand  is  the  source  of  much 
of  the  inaccuracy  which  meets  ua  eveijwhere ; 
Bnd  nhrases  such  as  the  above  are  quoted  at 
flflieui  and  hundredth  hand.  Perhaps,  too,  the 
analogy  of  such  phrases  as  "  King  of  kings,"  "  joy 
of  joys,"  where  the  selection  of  one  pentm  or 
thing  ont  of  many  is  the  salient  idea,  helps  to 
make  the  error  eaner  to  commit  and  leas  easj  to 
detect 

In  quoting  there  is  nothing  more  natural  and 
more  dangerous  than  to  trust  the  memory  too 
far.  Even  such  a  scholar  as  Mr.  Fronde,  in  the 
fine  lecture  he  lately  delivered  on  "Calvinism," 
misquotes  one  of  the  most  familiar  lines  in  Words- 
worth's "Ode  on  Immortality  ";  and  one  of  your 
own  correapondents  recently  wrote  to  complain 
that  a  Saturday  reviewer  had  miaquoted  a  ver|e 
of  Thomas  Hood'a,  when  it  actually  appeared  that 
the  Gorrectcn'  was  in  the  wrong,  and  tne  first  cita- 
Qon  correct. 

"  QdIs  mnoidablt  Ipeoe  OBMBdatons  ?  " 

AxrasD  Autqsb. 


LBLE  Altar  Sub  (4"'  a.  vii.  360.)— 

Is  not  thb  the  base  of  a  shrine  P    Compare  that 
of  Bede's  ahrine  in  the  nave  of  Durham. 

J.  H.  B. 
"La  Bbllb  Damx  baxs  Mxbci"  (4*^  S.  vii. 
324)— Eeata's  poem  first  a^eaied  in  7%£ /ndKMfor 
(1830)r  with  the  mgnatnre  "Caviare."  and  an 
inbodnctionbyLei^Hunt,  from  whicn  we  learn 
that  it  was  suggested  by  the  translation  of  Alain 


attributed  to  Chaucer  in  ^eght's  .    

cer,  howevei^  died  when  Ohartter  was  only  fouh- 
teen  years  of  age ;  and  if  M.  Paulin  I^rie  a  cm- 
jectnre  is  well  founded,  it  is  quite  imposcdble  that 
the  translation  should  be  by  Chaucer.  Jean 
Marot  was  not  boni  till  1467,  and  Chaucer  died 
in  1400.  According  to  Tyrwhitt,  in  the  Harloan 
M8.  373,  the  translation  ia  attributed  to  Sir 
Bichatd  Kos.  O.  J.  Dx  Wildb. 

A  ToAnarosn  Rnia  (4'»  8.  viL  824.)— H.  a  C. 
will  find  a  full  account  of  the  toadatone  and  its 
supposed  properties  in  TTie  Natitr<il  HUtary  of 
Gema  or  Beoorative  Stonsa,  by  C.  W.  King,  M.A., 
8vo,  London,  Bell  &.  Daldy,  1867,  pp.  43-49. 

Hehbi  W.  HnHPttBi. 

HarUiun  HooM^  Brighton. 

"  A  toadMADB,  a  calebrat<d  unolet,  wUiA  wai  new 
lent  to  tnj  one  unlcu  upon  a  bond  foi  a  tbtHuand  merka 
for  its  bemg  ufel;  raeund.  It  vu  Mvereign  for  pro- 
tecting  new-botn  childran  and  tbdr  mothara  ftvm  the 
pavar  of  the  fairiu,  and  hai  baen  nuatcdly  bomwed 

fnHn  mj  mother  tot  this  purnon." — Bztnot  of  ii 

from  Joanna  Bullia  to  Sir  WaltM  Sec 


tt  Scott  in  1S12 :  Sonf 


.1  I 


It  L 


eleven-uxteenths  of  a 
transpuent  and  of  daric-gra^  colour,  and  seema  ' 
silicious.  It  ie  set  in  a  maaave  silver  thumb-ring 
of  great  antiquity,  and  has  bean  in  the  posMaiion 
of  mv  fJunily  for  many  generations.  It  was  be- 
lievea  to  be  a  specific  in  cases  of  diseased  kidney. 
It.  like  the  Lee  penny,  was  immeraed  in  wat«r, 
wnicb  was  drunk  oy  the  patient. 

"  La  chloqauon,  ou  poalo*  de  b  main  dextre,  portott 
on  groa  et  Urge  aoneaa  d'argent,  an  la  piUa  dnqoal  Aoit 
enehuii^  una  lilen  grinds  crapoMdimt."  —  PmUoji/iia^ 
iv.  IB. 

The  vulgar  error  of  the  loadstone  ia  of  great 
antiquity,  and  waa  generally  believed  in.  Shakfr- 
speeir  chaiacterisas  the  toad  as  bearing  "  a  precioua 
jewel  in  its  head."  I  have  seen  several  so-called 
toadstnnes,  for  the  moat  part  dissimilar  Ui  each 
other.  B.  T. 


Sc»-MAL  QuxBiBS  (4'»  S.  TO.  324)— As  I  in- 
troduoed  the  snbjeet  of  dial  mottoea  into  "  N.  &  (J." 

December,  1^1,  by  an  inquiry  under  the  naow 
ot  HiKUB,  about  a  dial  at  K&rlabad,  I  ventaue 
to  answer  the  queries  of  P.  W.  S.,  although  I 
cannot  do  so  quite  satiajaetorily. 

1.  If  P.  W.  8.  can  get  hold  of  a  second-hand 
copy  of  Mechanick  DiaiUng,  by  Charles  Leadbetter, 
London,  1787, 1  believe  it  will  anawer  hia  pur- 
pose, as  it  describes  the  construction  of  erei; 
description  of  dial.  It  has  also  a  list  of  mottoes, 
among  which  are  thoee  comical  tranalationa  whicb 
have  already  appeared  in  "  N.  &  Q." 

2.  This  I  anawer  by  aaying  that,  when  I  firat  ^  [,, 
requested  the  correspondents  of  "N.&Q."  to  fur-  .,'v- 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4>»S.Vn.MAT6.71. 


niali  any  nmurkable  dial  mottoM  in  thur  own 
neighboiiTbood,  I  had  myself  been  ooUecting  tliem 
for  man;  jeaia ;  and  the  list  at  the  present  time 
ia  far  too  ToluininoDa,  and,  I  may  mj,  too  intereat- 
iDK,  to  be  sent  to  "  N.  ft  Q."  a*  a  mere  catalogue. 
I  DOM  indeed  to  cany  out  ahorti]'  my  long  pur- 
poaed  intention  of  publishing  it  in  a  volume,  with 
aueh  remarka,  archieological,  historical,  and  poeti- 
cal, as  have  arisen  ftam  a  coanderation  of  the 
not  a  little  interesting  subject. 

S.  It  ia  part  of  Qie  plan  of  the  bode  to  gire 
diirty  or  forty  iltuatrations  (out  of  periiaps  two 
or  three  hundred)  of  existtng  sun-dials.  But  this 
is  a  aingulaT  question  to  come  from  Nioe,  where 


obest 


Mmonv  81 

4.  This  is  partly  answered  by  No.  2 ;  but  I  jcnn 
heartily  with  P.  W.  S.  in  wiBhinp  that  "any  of 
your  conespondenta  who  know  of  quaint  or  pic- 
turaaque  sno-diala  "  would  oblige  the  readers  of 
"  N.  ft  Q."  by  a  liat  of  them,  as  the  longer  I  col- 
lect tbe  more  imperfect  I  perceive  the  collection 
must  oeceHaiilr  be,  from  uie  difficult  of  getting 
people  to  recoia  those  known  to  them. 

Beiuff  upon  the  anbject,  once  more  I  appeal  to 
the  reaoera  of  "  N.  ft  Q."  to  throw  light,  if  tiiey 
can,  upon  the  introduction  of  the  fly  into  the 
window-diaU  at  Marlborough  and  Wincheater,  as 
alao  into  so  many  of  the  copper-plate  illugtrations 
of  sun-dials  in  I^eadbetter's  volume. 

Uassasit  Gatit, 

"SiTinciTX  Jits,  Sciima  Ixjvbia"  (4**  3.  t. 
317, 433, 668,)— VooT  correspondent  O.  A.  B.  has 
bean  at  the  trouble  to  collect  out  of  varioua  Latin 
autbois  the  above  adage,  and  he  inquires  if  there 
are  any  other  instances  of  it  being  noticed. 

In  a  sermon  by  Dr.  Thomas  Sherlock,  an  old 
divine,  and  who  was  at  one  time  Haater  of  the 
Temple  Church,  London,  he  will  find  mention 
made  of  the  phrase.  It  is  Tery  apt  to  be  used  by 
some  persons  as  a  weapon  of'^  offence  against  the 
sdence  of  judicature,  and  therefore  I  will  give 
the  aabetance  of  Dr.  Sherlock's  interpretation,  as 
I  do  not  happen  to  have  my  own  copy  of  his 
works  at  hand.  I  am  aura  what  is  given  oontaina 
no  vital  error  of  the  learned  bishop's  words.  It 
CMinot  with  consistency  be  affiimed  that  what  is 
tummtrnjiu  aecording  to  the  Uw,  ia  according  '- 
the  same  law  Mmma  w^htm.  Smnmum  Jtu  i 
guda  the  written  law ;  mmma  tuftiria  regwds  t 
original  reaeon  of  all  law.  He  goes  on  fiirther 
•ay,  attention  must  be  given  to  the  difieience 
between  the  reason  of  justice  and  the  rules  of 
justice ;  and  by  the  rules  of  justice  be  understood 
the  general  prindplaa  and  rowims  of  justice  by 
which  the  laws  of  all  countries  are  governed  and 
directed.  By  the  reason  of  justice  he  understood 
the  fountain  from  which  all  tnazims  and  alt  laws 
are  derived,  which  ia  no  other  than  right  reason 
itselfj  f<»  laws  are  not  just  as  partaking  of  the 


authority  of  the  lawgiver,  but  as  partakiog  of  hia 
reaaon.  Henca  arises  the  distinction  between 
good  and  bad  laws,  though  both  derived  from  the 
same  authority :  showing  thereby  that  an  autho- 
ity,  though  it  may  make  a  valid  law,  yet  it 
annot  mute  a  good  one  unleaa  acting  uptm  the 


Thb  Dkvtl  BKAT8  HIS  Wife  "  (4*  S.  vL  27S, 
366, 427  i  vii.  26.)— With  regard  to  the  proverbial 
"  Devil  and  his  ^un,"  and  the  question  "  Who  b 
the  devil's  vrife  F  "  asked  by  Cutobbst  Bbdx  and 
-lyaelf,  I  find  illustntion  in — 

"Qriin,  tbe  Collier  of  Cnirdoai  or  Ibe  Devil  aod  bii 
Dune;  wiUi  the  DvrU  and  St.  Danstui.''— Doddfl/'B  OU 
Flayt,  voL  u. 

The  Satanic  portion  of  tbe  plot  of  thia  play  runs 
thus :  —  Spenser's  Afalbecco  tella  the  stcwy  of  his 
wrongs  to  the  infernal  judges.  They  cannot  be- 
lieve that  wives  are  eo  utterly  bad ;  and,  to  make 
Eroof,  send  up  to  earth  the  devil  Belphsgor,  who 
I  to  remun  here  a  twelvemonth  and  a  day,  to 
marry,  and  so  to  take  back  evidence  on  tbe  mstri* 
momal  question  to  the  halliah  synod.  Poor  Bel- 
phsgoi  IS  at  the  outset  cheated  of  tbe  wife  of  his 
choice,  marrying  the  maid  instead  of  the  mistress. 
His  wife,  after  oommittiog  all  the  sins  that  woman 
can  commit,  poisons  him ;  and  he  retnms  to  hell 
with  the  new  appendage  of  horns :  — 

"SapMagor.  TbMe  lie  the  inciant  anas  ef  andmldiy, 
And  tb««  mj  duna  hath  Undlj  kft  to  ma ; 
For  which  BelphBitardiaUbeluredwIdad, 


.__...  thynrvkel  will  grant  tbeeft«dy: 

AU  dnila  ihiU,  at  thoQ  dost,  like  hotna  weu, 
Aod  none  ihall  aoom  Belpbagor's  unat  to  bear." 
[Compare  the  eong  in  At  Yut  LUtt  It  (rv.  2)— 
"Take  thoa  no  seam  to  wear  the  horn."] 

This  portion  of  the  plot  ia  taken  from  Uachia- 
vel's  Marriage  of  Bdpkegor.  How  much  forthet 
backcan  the  Story  be  traced  f  Johit  Annis. 

Abkb  or  CaABUtKAan  (4>*  S.  vii.  76,  180.) 
The  swotd  svd  to  have  been  the  |u«perty  of  Chari»- 
magne,  which,  with  other  regalia,  is  preserved  in 
the  Schatakammer  at  Vienna,  bews  on  the  pom- 
mel an  escutcheon  charged  with  tbe  angle-headed 
eagle  Replayed  j  tbe  same  bearing  also  appears 
upon  the  scabbard.  Tbe  rwalia,  however,  an  of 
a  later  date  th^n  the  time  of  Charlemagne.  The 
eagle  appears  for  the  first  time  on  the  seal  of  the 
Emperor  Henry  (an.  1066).  Armorial  beatings,  in 
the  modem  acceptation  of  the  term,  wen  un- 
known in  tbe  daya  of  Charlema^nie ;  but  the  eeffle 
might  be  eonndered  Uie  tmdiSoHal  anna  ot  tne 
empeior,  and  aa  would  answer  W.  H.  H.  G.'a 
purpose.  J.  WooDWAits. 

"  Craiosnro  "  (4*  S.  ri.  476 ;  vii.  19.)  —  Mn . 
not  thia  term,  u  applied  to  inlud  work,  bam- 


i^B-vn.  Mat6,ti.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


ongiiiftted  at  tlia  c«le1nated  Certow  of  PaviaP 
Any  one  who  bu  Tinted  that  gorgeonalj  deco* 
nted  monastetj  will  remeoiber  how  eipedally 
rich  it  ii  ia  work  of  that  kiod.  The  altan  in  the 
cbMels  of  the  dbto  are  inlaid  with  pittra  Ara 
woTK,  compoHed  of  die  coatliest  marbles  and  crys- 
tals: and,  if  I  remember  aright,  there  is  alao  a 
good  deal  of  work  in  the  Sagnetialnd  etaewhere 
composed  of  inlud  wood  and  ivory. 

J.  WoODWABH. 
Hwitraae,  N.B. 

MoBx  FAini.1  (4''  S.  ii.  iiL  ir.  pamtmi  vii. 
226.)— Will  Mr.  Moosx  care  for  the  followiDK 
extract,  on  which  I  chanced  the  other  day,  and 
copied  it,  faueyiog  that  it  might  refer  to  some 
reUtdrea  of  the  great  chancellor  ? — 

"John  ISan  di«d  tha  2Gth  of  April  lut.  Jobn.  bla 
ton  and  bdr,  aged  24  and  upwards.  Daron,  Nor.  [or. 
4],  Anno  8."  (Jani*.  Pat  Maiitm,  8  Hen.  YII.,  No. 
11.) 


TROHMir  A  Dbuio  (V*  S.  vil.  »7,  236.)— Mb. 
JiCKSOH  asks  why  the  poet  Thomson  was  called 
a  Dmid  by  Collins.  I  have  an  idea  that  the  man 
who  wrote  Irt»h  Edogutt  mi^t  have  known  a 
little  Iriah,  and  so  termed  hu  brother  bard  a 
draoieht  —  a  singer  or  poet — in  that  mother  dia- 
lect of  the  Celtic  West  W.  D. 

NcwToik. 

Thb  Phcesix  Tbeoh«  (4'*  S.  vii.  162,  268.)— 
Byroa  makes  the  phcenix  a  aong  bird  :~— 


Which  apeaka  to  my  spirit  of 


P.P. 


SiTB  urn  THB  Whitkbotb  (4'*  S.  vii.  124, 
269.)— W.  H.  P.  may  weU  say  "  the  state  of  Clare 
must  have  been  temble."  1  resided  in  the  most 
distt^>ed  part  of  that  county  during  the  whole  of 
the  "  Teny  Alt "  time,  and  '.'  conld  a  tale  unfold." 
N.B.  At  present  Weetmeath  is  not  much  better, 
which  afl«r  so  many  years'  experiments  in  the 
"  pacification  of  Ireland,"  makes  those  who  are 
acquainted  with  that  country  wonder  a  little  as  to 
wl^t  is  the  priuciple  (P)  on  which  these  experi- 
ments are  based.  "Terries,"  "  Terry  Alts,"  "  Mrs. 
Alt  and  Children,"  all  maaut  the  same  persons. 
"  Lady  Clare  "  was  the  name  used  by  them  when 
extendbg  their  ravages  into  the  county  Galway. 
I  have  a  very  complimentary  letter  hotn  "  her 
kdysbip,"  addressed  to  a  relative,  a  native  of 
Clare,  who  resided  in  the  county  Gelway. 

W.  H,  P.  will  find  the  true  historr  of  "Terry 
Alt,"  contributed  by  one  who  knew  nim  well,  in 
aa  early  volume  of  "N.  &  Q."  Mot  having  the 
book  at  band,  I  cannot  give  die  volume  and  page ; 
but  the  Qeneral  Index  to  Second  or  Third  Series 


du  alive,  and  in  tha  enjoyment  of  a 
wall-eamed  competence,  as  be  must  now  be  nxty- 
five  or  theieabouta.  St.  Johx. 


ROTSS  OB  BOOKS.  STC. 

Thi  Tonb  hi  Vtnt  and  Frtut,  eomgalrU,  of  Hatty 
Vaughim,  SihirUtJi>r  Oufirtt  H'mc  eoOtcUd  md  edited. 
Wilk  Mtmorial  Jmtrodiutioii,  Buay  an  Lift  amd  fFri- 
tiHf,  and  /MtM,  I'ac-Mimilf,  mtd  Wgimal  lOiitratioiit. 
Bg  tbs  Bev.  Alexander  B.  Grosirt,  St.  OeoTBaX  Black- 
bum,  Lancashire.  In  Fair  VolumtM.  Vol.  I. :— He- 
noriid  iDtroduction  and  Sacred  Poetry,  Includlnfc 
Silex  SdntUlut,  lefiO-ieeS;  IhalU  Bsdivlva,  16TS, 
Folia  Silvole,  leAD,  1678. 

TVsme,  roJ./7/.,Pn)n, containing iMoontorOlivea— 
Of  the  BracBIa  we  may  get  fVom  oar  Enemies  after 
Flutaich   and  H.  Trrlai— The  Diseases  of  tbe  Mind 
aad  Bodie,  IVam  PlaUrch  ;  Preiw  ud  Hiq>idnease  of 
the  Coantrle  Lift ;  Hermetic  Phvric,  Ac 
Tkt  Atutomit  of  Baieaait,  IfilS,  £y  Join  Amdtrtoit. 
Ediud  ujitk  IntTodMctim  md  yottt,  bg  Bav.  A.  B. 
Gr«sart,A«. 
Tht  Ttar—  efOit  Bthvtd,  1600,  and  Mme  Magd^tnt't 
Tmnt,  bu  Gtrvatt  MarOam.    EdiUd,  wllJt  Mtmarial 
/■InNhctHii,  Aoto,  f1^,  iy  Be*.  A.  B.  Qroaart,  Ac 
Pmsu  bf  H*m  Lok,  GflUiaun  <1  IiSS-lNT).    IkOttd 
wUK  Jatmerial  Inlraduction  and  Xbltt,  bf  Ker.  A.  B. 
Grosart. 

It  is  not  only  that  tbese  volnmes,  bdag  part  of  "  The 
Fnliet  WoftUes  Librai?  "  (the  last  three  rannln{[  por- 
tions of  Tlic  MuetOamn),  are  "  printed  for  private  dr- 
eolation,"  and  coDNqaentir  by  conrt*^,  if  not  of  richt, 
may  dalm  exemption  from  ouical  Mricturts;  but  ch&fiy 


d  aUot  to  tl 


By  this 


tMonae,  in  tbe  limllad  space  ws  conld  a 
would  be  imponible  to  enter  into  detail 
tcot  onrselvet  with  recording  tbefr  apuearai 
giving  at  Ingtb  tbdr  ezplanabny  tiue-pagee.  I , 
muoa  we  bring  the  books  tnfflcientlj  under  tbe  Dolioe  of 
those  likely  to  be  interested  in  them,  and  so  aaslit  the 
editor  iu  bis  labour  of  love.  We  believe  he  sUll  has  on 
hand  some  ttw  copies  of  the  small  paper  seriee,  of  which 
It  will  be  remembered  that  Ihe  nnmb«  printed  Is  very 

Tbe  InTEBitiTiDXAL  ExBiBmoR  or  1871.— Another 
source  of  rational  enjoyment  and  recreation  has  been 
provided  tot  the  London  public  and  their  country  coosins 
on  their  visits  to  tbe  metropotii,  in  the  Internatimial 
Exhibition,  which  was  opened  with  Sttioff  rcremonies  on 
Monday  last  bv  the  Prince  of  Wales:    The  object  of  the 


promotais 


lat  bv 
of  thl 


lis  grtat  wori 


imdj,  t< 


hisdeaire p.  ., __ 

the  advancement  alike  of  the  Fine  and  Industrial  Arts 
in  this  countiy,  is  one  which  none  can  gainsBy.  The 
CommisioDeis  have  done  their  part  rsganfless  ot  tronhle 
and  expense.  It  now  remains  for  the  people  themselves, 
u  exhibitors  aad  vidtora,  to  show  then  sppreciation  of 
what  has  been  accompli^ed  by  a  geaeroui  and  hearty 


[•  Sea-'N.ft  Q."2»«S.xi.l78,285}8M8.^J^I]^|(J 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


t4*S.VII.  Mir6,7I. 


,, I  work  which  mty  do  much  to  inBo- 

X  the  Intallectari  and  mUerul  pnigreu  of  the  oMlon. 
Tbe  Camdek  SocisTT.  — The  General  Me«liiur  of 
this  Society  wu  held  on  Tneidav,  Sic  William  l^te, 
the  PretldeDt,  in  the  chiir.  when  Sir.  W.  P.  Coaeiu,  Mr. 
AllVed  KiDgstoD,  and  Sir  F.  Madden  were  elected  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  for  the  anining  jeir.  The  Report 
announced  for  early  publication  the  Letten  and  Papers 
of  John  Shillingford,  Mayor  of  Eseler  in  the  first 
half  of  the  fifteenth  centnrr  ;  the  Cheqno  Book  of  the 
Chu>el  Royal  ftom  tbe  re%n  of  Elizabeth  to  the  Ac- 
ceBBiDQ  of  the  Honee  of  HaDOTcr;  a  second  volume  of 
TrBvelyan  Papers,  and  a  volame  of  Fortescne  Papers, 
collected  by  .John  Packer,  Beoretsrr  to  Geoi^  TiUiera, 
Duke  of  Backinttham ;  aa  uapubluhed  Lifb  of  Biihop 
Bedell,  &c  After  annonrcine  tbe  satisfaoton-  progreas 
making  in  the  preparation  of  tbe  General  Tcdex  to  tbe 
flrst  hundred  volmnea  of  the  Society's  pubiicationa,  and 
the  great  faUlng  off  la  the  namber  of  members  owing  to 
tiie  many  deaths  of  those  who  Joined  the  Society  at  iU 
lannatioil,  the  Conodl  make  an  earnest  "  appeal  to  all 
who  take  an  inuitat  in  tbe  study  of  England's  histan-, 
the  biography  of  England's  worthiea,  and  in  Cheae  the 
aoarcH  of  England's  greatneso,  to  add  their  names  to  the 
Society,  and  enable  it  to  continae  and  extend  lis  nHfal 
and  hoooorable  labonre."  We  recommend  this  appeal  to 
the  attention  of  our  readers.  A  suggestion  thrown  out 
daring  the  meeBng,  that  the  Society  aboali  close  its  pre- 


<s  of  b. 


a  of  the  Council. 


.■,p.i->) 


deserving  tlie  conradere 

Ladt  Nronfo'iMi.E. — In  endeavonring  (i 
to  do  joatiee  to  the  acearaoy  of  Mr,  Pioton  h  hi  lus 
inicripCioD  on  this  lady's  monument,  stating  that  she  died 
on  "  Aug.  17,  1784,"  we  hare  unintentionally  seemed 
to  throw  a  donbt  on  the  aconracr  of  Colonel  Chester's 
statement  that  she  died  in  August,  1731.  Colonel  Ches- 
ter's can  and  aocniscy  In  all  such  matters  are  too  well 
»itablished  to  be  aSterted  by  any  such  remark  ;  bat  it  is 
only  due  to  him  to  aay  that  there  is  no  doubt  that  I^dy 


Wb  have  recelvei 

hilllps"a  Dictianat      „         ^    , 

..jjr  Oiu  Rimdrtd  Thoiaaml  Namet,     We  under 

booh,  which  is  a  very  clearly  printed  octavo  volume, 
nearly  ready  for  delivery;  and  we  congratulate  Mr.  Phil- 
lips on  having  brongbt  to  a  close  his  labonn  on  what 
promiMS  to  te,  on  the  ground  of  Its  utility  and  o 
pleteness,  a  meet  Indispensable  book  of  re' 


lately  noticed  1^  us,  bnt  attribntlng  it  to  one  of  out  own 


Loiroon   Imrrrunoir.- 


'.  John  Carglll  Bronoh, 
F.CS.,  wal  on  3Bth  April,  appointed  principal 'lihrailan 
in  tbe  room  of  Mr.  Edward  William  Brayley,  who  died 


-.  _ie  valuable  oolleetian  of  historical  tracts  and  . 
letB.    The  firat  volume,  including  the  letter  F,  was  pub- 
lished in  1840. 

THBj<rt«iHi— lannoonoea  that  theEarlofahafteabnry 
haa  placed  In  the  bands  of  the  nation,  through  the  Kaoord 
OOee.  the  wh^  of  hl«  fineeoUaotlonsoflMitly  Midhia- 


RouAK  pAVEMEirr. — Some  Boroaa  pavenunt  has  beat 
discovered,  within  the  lait  few  days,  in  tbe  garden  o( 
No.  17,  Mark  Lane.    This  buildine  is  of  tbe  seventeattfa 

ry,  and  the  garden  was  well-known  for  Its  tbootalii 
ime  tne.  That  portion  of  tbe  pavement  nncovBtad 
Be  three  or  foar  yards  squaie,  but  It  is  evidently 
onlf  a  small  part  of  a  large  pavement.  Some  yeiars  ainoe 
-  pieoe  of  a  similar  character  was  found  upon  the  other 
de  of  the  lane,  directly  opposite.  The  workmen  have 
found  a  quantity  of  animal  bones,  aa  well  aa  fragmorts  «f 
Samian  and  Upcfanrch  ware.  Moat  of  these  have  (Onnd 
ready  customers  in  the  nnmerous  persona  viaitinfc  tlie 
ipot.— Timet. 

A  BttrrmH  Muaiim  Bkuukq-Rooh  Qtimvmc*^ — 
Under  this  heading  a  carrapondent  inquires:  "  How  is 
it  that  books  and  MSS.  in  use  in  the  Reading-Room  at 
the  British  Museum  are  kept  so  long  a  time  at  the 
r's  ? — in  many  casea  six  or  eight  months,  and  even 
_  r  ;  and  some  coUectioni  pnrabosed  in  196i  (ntarly 
tm  years  ago)  are  not  evm  arranged  for  tbe  binder  yet. 
1  hare  sent  up  my  tickets  for  books  and  MSS.  minith 
after  month,  and  atill  they  are  relumed  with  the  words 
'At  the  binder's.'  Snrely'one  or  two  months  is  ample 
time  to  bind  a  book  or  MS."  We  think  there  most  be 
some  mistake  in  this ;  and  we  are  sure  that  the  attentifKt 
of  the  aithoritisa  once  called  to  the  anlyact,  tiam  will  ba 
no  gionnd  for  ftarthar  complainta. 

Eahlt  CiOBiaa  Hovkmbrt. — The  managon  of  the  Lon- 
don daily  press  have,  it  ia  said,  resolved  to  abandon  the 
practice  of  reporting  la  artnuo  the  speeches  delivered  in 
the  House  of  Commons  at  unreasonably  late  hour«.  Ex- 
cept in  very  rare  cases,  where  the  interest  of  the  debate 
justifies  a  dqksiture  tram  the  role,  honourable  membaas 
who  catch  tbe  Speaker's  eye  after  midnight  will  brace- 
forth  find  but  a  brief  epitome  of  their  eloquence  ui  th« 


AotUfi  tn  earrntpontitnU. 

Wtart  coimptllid  to  potipoiu  intliliuxt  ip«*  oar  notice 
of  Mr.  TvitleloK'i  and  Mt.  Chabot'i  elpboraU  wohmt, 
The  Handwriting  of  Junius. 

MELCOUBB.—SowocoDnit  o/JDaaid  Qman.thi tsaich- 
imaJur,  will  is  fimmd  in  "N.  A  Q."  2=*  8.  vi.  13, 176,  <ad 
Hont'i  Yav-Book.  p.  8U. 

W.  B.  S^Mon  Ttiifmtd  Alt  umllr-lkariffaUs',  •^'^V 
23, 1619.     Stt  Fou'i  Judges,  v.  210. 

X.  X.— ffo  dmrgi  fir  tht  mirrtim  of  QmtHit,  M  •« 
reairtw  lo  omelva  tit  rigkt  ofjndgiKg  ichal  art  admn- 
liblt. 
Thb  Old  Boto  Srawtr  GAtj.»«i.  — The  aummer  Erhaia,— **  3.  vlL  p.  871,  col.  i.  Ibios  4,  8,  and  2  ftwn 
cxUbitlanwiU  be  opaied  on  the  !9th  injt.,  at  26,  Old  bottom  (of  tmrt), /or  "  an  "  and  "iB«r<«l  raarf  "arf 
Bond  Street,  and  pictures  wUI  be  received,  on  tbe  IMh  and  "  muiiAatored,"  tea»ctiv^ ;  p.  874,  ooL  iL  llM  W, 
—  ^"-'-  /or"Bnolo»ed''  reod  "  endowed."^ 


4*8.  TIL.  Mat  18,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


403 


lOJfDOr,  aATOSBAT,  MATll,  isn. 


CONTBMTBl— IF*  ITS. 

li  I<elaD>rln  In  Bio  da  Jai( 

laaa  III.,  4M— Bnn  In  BoftCD  Cburob.  li 

Lettsr  A S»«i,  4iM  —  Prorertu  — ' 

SanMDM  or  OffiBlali  la  tha  W«M  lDiUM,*e.— 
GilBOnBlnmi-IUIuiid-      '   "     '  " 

"ThaFradleal  ei>ii")Da _ 

UBE— More  kbout  Cocker— ~In  Ute  8tnw"- 


QUBBIEBt-Havtliita  Prtnttt  4M  -  Author  wauM  — 
BrldntUiM  nam  —  ChnvlnlnBa — Tba  Cbenm — Cl*- 
ma^n  Cnrtar — CaAiiM  <tf  OhwUed^-Oaibatt.M.  ««- 


ArUelB  or  Food  —  Otrtei,  Ids  oTHmi- 
eiorto  M«  DOt  tba  WtaMt  Hen  ■*  —  Httnlu.  —  .«o  u  iu.: 
—  BJpiMr  —  Kan  Tma  ud  Spilu  Oam — TliaClaean  : 
BmptBM  of  India—"  fbt  SbralM  of  Puntaan*  "— "  fflmQaa, 
to  Hour"— "Portrait or L<»d  SOTDls'  —  Wilpale^  Nail- 
"       ~  •  — Wreak*  at  Saa;  tha  Tem- 


-    -».     -    . .  -in  Ohnn*.  KorfiJlk. 

-  Date  01  CbaiuHT^  Birth,  411  —  The  ■anHH7  or 
H»ili,4lS— Soona:  3nt«(.4U— OhtMran't  0»mei,4U— 
■nw  ftal  ObUmMmi  Of  PMnrai  —  Fl^  of  tba  Naw  Q«nan 
Bmnlra-'QBMa  *.  Moaanitoaa— Ba*  TtHatm  Brooka— 
Jin.  Harr  CbBraUll.  l*S-"Tba  Hob  iotheWaU"- 
Law»ililnWtti]hM=k«ttarot  Bdwaid  IT.-Olan  HoAlpla 
—  Cblgnoai— DIgbton  Oaricatorei— Bath  Statamsnti  ; 
Olbboa'i "  Detdloe  and  Fall "  — Binn  I>lTiae,Uoral,  and 
I'oetioal.  m*:  Dean  Swift —Ohaaoar^  "C^-Foi'*  and 
"OattMhad"  —  OritaOnm-ABO  —  IaUd  FMrab — 
Beauty  Haup,  ftiL,  4U. 


ietrtl. 

IROE  LEQIOITABIES  m  BIO  DB  lASEJBO. 

In  the  yeu  1834  then  wu  paUidied  in  BarHn, 
ft  work  entitled  "A  GmtribvtioH  to  A«  Hidory  o/' 
th«  War  hetwea*  SfatO  and  Buenoi  Ayrtt  in  tM 
Tear,  1325, 1826, 1827,  and  1828,  hy  an  Eye- 
WitaMS."*  I  do  not  know  wko  wu  tha  anthor  of 
ihia  iBteiwting  book;  but  no  ona  can  read  it 
witlioat  Imng  dunned  hj  the  talents  of  tlte 
writer,  and  fully  convinced  of  hu  honesty.  Uy 
main  olgect  in  now  directing  attention  to  hu 
pacM  ia  for  the  pnipoM  of  elicitiog,  thiongh  tlie 
cobinuu  of  "  N.  &  Q.,"  «oiae  futhw  informalion 
reipectdag  an  Imh  legion,  or  boc^  of  aoldien, 
-which  he  refen  to  as  being  oiganiwd  tat  the  aei^ 
vice  of  tha  Empoior  Dom  Fedro  in  the  veai  1828. 

The  Inah  aze  justly  proud  of  the  achisrementa 
of  thur  valiant  countrymen  who,  in  accordance 
with  the  tenna  of  the  Trea^  of  Limerick,  became 
«zilM  fiom  their  native  land,  and  wen  anerwarda 
known  in  many  a  battlo>field  of  Euiope  aa  "  the 
Irish  Lejricxi,"  altkoagh  for  many  yean  thwr  d^ 
parture  &om  the  laaa  of  their  birth  waa  l^mantjwi 
aa"  the  flight  of  the  wild  geese."  Nothing  could 
be  better  known  in  Ireland  than  the  fact  that  L 


*  Beitrage  nr  GticAkhU  da  Xritgm  xantehen  Bra- 
Men  tnd  Buaut-Ayra  «  dtx  JaAm  1S26,  2fi,  ZT,  SS. 
Bertln,  bd  Q.  BaioMr,  1884, 


the  year  1817  m 
enrolled  and  took  service  widi  tlie  revolted  States 
in  South  America ;  bnt  of  a  later  deportation  of 
Irisbinan  to  serve  under  Dom  Pedro  in  Brazil, 
little,  if  anything,  has  ever  been  said ;  and  hence 
I  am  sure  that  uie  foUowiog  eztracU  concerning 
the  formation,  the  stone -throwing  prowess,  and 
the  disbaodmeiit  of  an  "  Irish  Legion  "  in  Itio 
Janeiro  will  be  aa  strange  and  extraordinary  in- 
telligence to  the  present  generation  of  Irishmen 
as,  Icsndidlj  admit,  it  has  been  to  myself. 

Previous  to  the  engagement  of  Irishmen  in  his 
service,  Dom  Pedro  had  formed  a  legion  of  Ger- 
mans, and  these  were  mainly  picked  up  in  Ham- 
bu^  and  Bremen,  and  were  chosen  on  account 
of  toeir  physical  development,  and  without  the 
slightest  regard  to  thwr  moral  qualities ;  and,  as 
our  author  says,  there  was  no  question  oAed 
whether  or  not  they  were  outcasts  nom  prison  or 
runaways  from  the  police ;  on  the  contrary,  one 
agent  undertook  to  send  out  a  certwn  number  of 
convicts  from  the  penitentiariea  (emt  AixuhlSb^- 
Urigt  am  den  ZuehtAdiuern),  and  even  these,  bad 
as  the?  were,  had  been  enticed  to  enrol  tnem- 
selves  by  promises  as  &lse  as  they  wen  flattering 
(p.  284.) 

Bv  such  means  were  Germans  enrolled  under 
the  banners  of  I^m  Pedro,  and  here  is  what  the 
author  Bam  as  to  those  who  had  been  induced  to 
leave  Ireumd  for  the  Brarils : — 

"Hm  datannlnattoa  to  Inoean  tha  nnmber  at  tWniga 
tioapa  wUdi  woe  u>  sadj  bandied,  and  oootlitated 
almoBt  theaolanUable  niinort  of  theezaooUve  power, 
led  to  the  eiDiilojmeDt  of  Colonel  Cotter,  ao  Imhman, 
who  had  been  jost  then  named  M  tin  MnmmdeT  of  the 
third  baUalioD  rf  OrenadlM*.  He  was  s«t  to  Inland 
for  the  poipota  of  rai^g-  leoraUi,  and  abaM  the  beciB- 
ninc  of  the  jear  1828  ha  reaohad  Bio  da  Jansira  with  a 
coople  1^  thouand  of  bis  fkllow  eonDtiTmen.  These  man 
had  been  reeroited  by  tha  aame  decaiUtal  means  Hut  had 
been  employed  for  eotldDK  the  Gennans  (dit  b-  b  dtr- 
$Mm  twtidBilim  Art,  wS  di*  <mtadl«(  ITnttrgtwcr- 
bat),  and  for  the  meat  part  wcoa  taken  (Kan  Ota  toj 
loweat  glMsaiof  the  popolao^  ii  inll  aaftom  tba  Whita- 

2lii 


repair  to  the  military  depots  to 

attempt  waa  reristed,  sad  tAaa  un  kuihiuihk.  »■»«>. 
to  eompel  tha  man  t«  bsaooM  aeldiarB,  an  appeal  was  mada 
to  the  BdxUb  aabasaador.  Sir  Bobsit  QMdoa,  who  at 
onee  dadared  that,  nnleaa  tbeae  mso  bad  bound  them- 
•elvea  to  take  miUU>7  aervlea,  they  aoald  not  be  foroed 
t«  do  ■>.  It  k  diSenlt  to  datetmine  wbatlwr  this  da- 
diton  rflha  ambiMadnr  waa  foaadsd  w>  poHtiaal,  legal, 
or  penaaal  gMOMla,  altiioo^  all  stub  motlvw  ni^t 
•aalybs  aBmMaadlohanoaatilbDtadtol>ladaclaian,by 
raamn  of  liii  illMllrfaiiliiiii  with  tha  eondoct  of  the 

"  UndaT  theae  dronmstancai  sn  ti'"*''*  aRaanment 
waa  coma  tA,  and  (Tom  thiea  te  foai  bandied  Idihmea 
wareaaliated  npon  Uie  foUawing  ooudlUoni,  via.  tliataasll 
man  tbonbireceiTe  tha  p^  of  an  EngUah  soldier  ■■atfiil- 
Vng  a  dw~«hidi  waa  nmuiy  twlae  aa  moeli  aa  ii — 
p^  te  tba  "  "        ■  -""  *" '■ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4»8.TlI.llAiU,7L 


DBxt,  that  then  dwaldba r^-..--  . 

thay  ihould  not  be  mbjscted  to  oorporal  pani 
They  were  then  incorporated  in  Che  third  Grensdier  bat- 
talion, comnunded  bj  thtir  coaatiyman,  Colonel  Cotta, 
and  10  aerred  to  compleu  ""  ■""" 
(Pp.  S88,  S89.) 

And  here  it  ia  to  be  remfirked  tliat  our  author 
mBT  be  lelied  upon  m  to  whatsTer  Btatementa  he 
makes  as  "  an  e^e-wituesB/'  but  that  he  was  liable 
to  miaiDforiaatioD,  and,  I  have  no  doubt,  was 
mifflDfaTmed  when  he  aaserta  that  these  Irish- 
men were  recruited  in  Ireland,  and  that  some 
of  them  were  "  Whitebova."  There  were  no 
«  Whiteboys"  in  Ireland  in  1827  or  1828.  The 
aevere  enactmenta  entitled  "The  Whiteboy  Acta" 
were  still  in  force.  Some  landlords  were  atiU 
guilty  of  cruelties,  and  farmers  and  fanners'  la- 
bourers resented  such  cruelties  bj  the  perpetration 
of  honous  crimes ;  but  still  there  were,  with  the 
exception  of  the  co.  Tipperary,  fewer  firave  anarian 
offences  committed  in  Ireland  in  1827  and  IS38 
than  for  many  preceding  years.  I  entertain  then 
a  very  etronir  doubt  that  any  of  the  Irishmeo  im- 
portea  into  Brazil  were  agriculturists.  And  then 
there  is  this  conuderatiou, — how  could  two  thou- 
sand Irishmen  be  recruited  in  Ireland  and  utterly 
escape  the  attention  of  the  two  govemmenU  that 
were  then  established  in  that  country  P  It  may 
seem  strange  to  assert  that  in  1827  and  1828  there 
were  ttoo  govwranaUt,  but  such  is  literally  the  fact. 
There  was  "the  Irish"  njvemment  established 
at  the  Cora  Eichanre,  and  called  "  the  Catliolic 
Association,"  with  Daniel  O'Connell  as  the  pre- 
sident, and  there  was  "  the  Knelish  "  government 
at  the  Casti^  with  the  Uarquu  of  Welleeley  or 
Anglesey  as  Lord-Lieutenant.  The  latter  would 
not  have  permitted  the  provisions  of  the  Foreign 
Enlistment  Act  to  be  violated ;  and  the  former 
would  not  have  sanctioned  the  deportation  of  ao 
large  a  number  of  their  countrymen  for  the  pur- 
pose of  fighting  against  a  state  like  Buenos  Ayres, 
which  had  only  recently  achieved  its  independ- 
ence. My  belief  then  u  that  the  Irishmen  re- 
cruited by  Colonel  Cottar  must  have  been  picked 
up  in  London,  Liverpool,  Manchester,  and  Qlas- 
gow,  and  were — if  one  may  judge  of  them  from 
uirir  subsequent  condnct — composed  of  the  refuse, 
riff-rai^  and  the  worst  portions  of  the  Irish  popu- 
lation to  be  found  out  of  theb  own  countiy. 

"  Onat  m!Mhi«ft,"  ob«em«  out  anlhor,  "  foUowad 
ftom  having  in  the  ume  corps  men  of  two  dUinct  TwtloD- 
alitles,aDd  recelviiiKdlSknotpay,  and  treated  not  in  tba 
tame  manner.  Tba  irU,  bajng  to  mneh  pieftrred  to  the 
Oerniaiu,  soon  began  witb  nota  in  the  tivcrne  end 
■vendai'  of  Bio  da  Janeiro,  andbytheae  riots  Kreiitdii- 
tarbaneea  were  canwd,  and  roan;  posoiu  loet  their  livn. 
TbelriahalaoaoonfinndoatanewamDMmentfbr  tbem- 
Belvsa— it  was  hj  pnetialnc  their  great  skill  fi 
Ihrowlnr  at  the  expense  o?  the  DegToes  (Art  G 
OeUeil  £■  StaMotrfin  an  il«  A«cn  n  iiba.). 
poor  Mgroea  wen  tbns  moleated  u  they  dailf  c 
waw  watar  fnm  the  fbnntaln  in  tba  Plaoe  St.  A 


which  the  barracks  wen  eitnatad.  This  annoyance  added 
to  their  afflictions,  and  served  lo  mike  both  tbemiad 
their  nuuten  most  bitter  enemies  of  the  Irish.  And  tbea 
this  conaeqaenDe  fbllowed  that  the  Germans,  thair  Mlvw 
eoldlers,  who  loved  brawling  and  drinking  as  moeh  u 
tbe  Irish,  readily  (bllowad  Uidr  example,  especially  wbca 
they  saw  that  these  disorders  wen  foUoirad  by  no  nrieu 
panisbment,  as  tba  cohmel  winked  at  the  nuscondiKt  d 
the  Irishmen  in  the  bope  the  remainder  of  their  eOQaBy- 
nen  would  be  lamptad  to  Johi  the  raoka."    (P.  S89.) 

It  would  be  a  waata  of  your  space  to  enter  into 
all  the  paiticulara  of  the  manner  in  which  a  d»- 
regftid  (H  discipline  at  length  led  to  open  mnlinv. 
In  this  mutiny,  the  Irish  mlly  sympathiaing  with 
their  new  and  cordial  friends  the  German  soldien, 
both  broke  out  into,an  open  insnirection,  which  ia 
thus  described : — 

"  The  msrcbiag  of  troops,  the  rattliog  of  artille^,  sad 
the  racing  of  orderljr  officers,  annoaaoed  to  the  ioliibi- 
taota  of  Ria  de  Janeiro  the  danger  that  was  impending 
over  them.  A  mnltitode  ofcnrions  penons,  and  amongst 
them  many  negroes,  were  collected  together  oD  ttie 
Place  St.  Xnne,  and  it  mi^t  Im  sboat  mid-day,  vhtn  thi 
insargenta,  without  any  military  order,  bat  gathend 
together  like  a  swarm  of  ben,  burst  out  of  llw  barnck- 

"liiefirstflght  of  the  Insurgents  began  with  thespsc- 
talon,  and  was  especially  directed  agiinet  the  Mgnea 
The  Irish  threw  stonee  at  them,  and  they  retaliatedi  sad 
than  followed  dischargo  of  mnskelrj.  Those  who  bsd 
been  collected  from  cnrloaity  fled,  and  tbe  iniurgenit, 
incited  by  rage,  and  eager  for  plunder,  broke  into  hoana, 
and  ravs^  the  adjoiung  stieet*.  Bnthleas  and  aavsn 
the3'  spared  the  lives  of  none  they  eaconnteKd.  As 
inhabitants,  in  tbeir  da^air,  armed  tfaonaelvcs ;  tbe  at- 
groes.  too,  got  hold  of  weapons,  and  then  began  a  battlis 


all  belief,  was  exhibited.  No  oosrtar  was  siven  on  eilher 
side,  and  the  blacks,  tike  cannibals,  tore  idth  tb^  weth 
the  bodifs  of  their  rallen  foes  t  Tbe  battle  raged  for  msiy 
boDTS,  until  at  last  the  ammnuition  of  tbe  inani^ents  was 

eihanstad A  detachment  of  csivaliy  was  snt 

against  them,  bnt  this  was  enoonntsred  by  a  troop  of 
Irishmen  with  snoh  a  powerfnl,  well-aimed  bail-Mona  li 
Btoneo,  that  many  of  the  riders  were  knocked  olT  tbeir 
hones,  and  the  lemstoder  took  to  flight."  (Pp.  295,  IK.) 

This  last  incident  is,  I  believe,  an  achievemeDt 
unparalleled  in  modem  wai&re.  But  to  hasten 
to  a  eoselusioa  of  "  this  strange,  eventful  his- 
tory." The  mutinv  was  anppr«SBed,  and  "  all  the 
blame  of  it  was  turown  upon  the  Irish "  (fnon 
die  Sehuld  der  &nporungaUan  auf  die  Irlaitdtr  W 
matien  heabttdOige).  The  universal  ciT  of  tbe 
Brazilians  was  "  Death  to  all  foreigners  I"  (Midt 
todot  o(  atranmrot.');  and  as  to  Uiis  poor  little 
"  Irish  legion,   we  are  told  that  its  members  "  WBfB 

S'ven  over  to  the  English  authorities,  in  order 
at  they  might  be  returned  to  tieir  own  home* 
as  alike  incorrigible  and  untameable "  (dit  Ir- 
iander  den  englneJien  B^drAn  Oberj/eben  teerdoi, 
urn  tie  in  ihre  Seimalh  turiiehauduiffen,  dit  mm 
aU  toiverbetierliA  tmd  tmtShmhar  a^gab),  p.  297. 
But  did  these  Iiiah  return  to  IreUaid  P  I  doubt 
it    I  should  like  to  know  what  becameof  th«f^ 


-t*S.Tn.  ltt.ll8,Tl.] 


NOTES  AJTD  QUERIES. 


405 


Than  must  auralj  b«  some  neari  of  these  tnns- 
aotioiis  in  our  Foreisn  Offico ;  or  perhnp!)  some 
one  in  Ireland  cui  tell  of  Colonel  Cotton  mi  hh 
Irish  Legion.  Wk.  B.  MaoGabe. 

HoncoDtoar-de-BreUgne,  CStea  da  Mord,  Fnacc 


NAPOLEON  IIL 

There  tie  muiT  acconnta  of  the  life  and  works 
of  Napoleon  III.,  some  of  which,  laudatory 
«naugh,  were  eTidently  written  l)j  order* ;  but  in 
none  of  them,  as  far  asl  know,  is  there  an;  men- 
tion of  a  contribution  from  his  Majesty  to  a  tran*- 
lation  begun  bj  his  brother  and  publiahed  in  a 
lane  collection,  the  PmlAiim  mtraireA  The 
dedication,  whitJi  I  beg  to  subjoin,  isTerycniious, 
*nd  may  ^va  rise  to  more  than  one  commentary : 
"A  3on  Alttue  Imp^rlala 
Le  Priiie«  Napotdon  Louis  Bonsparta. 

"  Hod  elier  Prince, — C'eati  vaui  lurtont  que  Ja  dcrais 
«ffriT  ca  volume.  11  conlhot  I'mivnge  d  no  Jioquea 
Bnonapirte,  homme  da  nos  at  da  ocenr,  qui  porta  itsc 
honneoi  an  xvi'  slide  ce  nom  devaDii  aa  zli*  la  ploa 
glorieuz  das  nome.  Un  antra  mambra  de  Totre  hmille, 
un  homiDe  d'ou  aaprit  droit,  d'on  cieur  g&i^reux,  d'nn 
patrlotinna  t^toaii,  qnl  rut  votn  tcirt,  a  fkiC  da  cet 
ODTiags  nne  tradoetloa  fl^gauU  at  facile.  Tans-nienie 
Tons  avez  bisD  vanlo,  k  ma  demande,  ravoir  U*  frag- 
tnents  omia  par  Totte  trire,  car  ja  ne  vooUla  pu  qa'one 
plume  Arangtre  Tint  sa  ibtler  k  catta  auoclalion  da 
ramllle.  Ja  puia  done  dire  qn'an  boane  partie  cm  Tolnme 
<at  loot  TStra  et  toh  !•  dMiar  oomma  tcL  Uaii  una 
aotn  coiriddiatka  •ocors  m'a  dAermhit  k  toqb  la  pri- 
anilat:  o'tst  qn'il  eonlitot,  Ik  oGttf  d*  la  narration  Us- 
torigae  da  JaeaaM  finooaparte,  lea  H^mcdita  snr  Bayard 
et  rleniange,  daox  h^roa  de  votn  albeUoD.  Je  ne  asis 
■1  la  lbniine,fkTarabUoa  eoiitraire,Toiu  appdlera  Jamais 
it  la  Tie  d'aoUon,  rous  ooodamD^  bd  expiation  de  la 
gloire  da  TOtn  DOm,  k  nser  jiaqalei  dans  I'exil  -~"~ 


wq""]*  ... 

T^damait  la  sa«ria««  antler  de  TOtre  pmsonne,  beurenx 
da  TODS  axpoeer  an  premtei  ran|^  aaos  aatre  ambllioa 
qtw  aeUe  de  bien  Aire,  sans  antn  ONbUe  que  I'int^i^t  da 
vanre  pays,  tods  saulei,  comma  Bayard,  capltalne  on 
jtddat,  ms^iiHrat  on  dtoyen,  eonqpirir  raflection,  le 
nspsc^  et,  ja  ma  plais  k  le  croire,  I'admliatlcai  da  tooa. 
"Si  qua- 


Atheiuemn  einb,  PaH  MaD. 


Fsucisftin-MicHZL. 


BRASS  IN  BOSTON  CHURCH. 

^Rshej  Thompson,  in  his  generally  accurate 

JSidory  of  BotUm,  alludes  (p.  197)  to  "  a  most 

brilliant  coat  of  anus  upon  a  brass  plate  with  real 

metals  and  tancturee  etuunelled  aa  old  as  the  reign 


t  OMx  dt  Chnmqnt  1  Memoir, 
Timait. — La  Lojal  Oaolteur.  —  Chrotdqae  de  Bayati^ 
&e.   Pails,A.D««ay,  NxocxuczxTiiSni. 


of  Elizabeth,"  which  was  in  ISfid  (uid  it  is  to  be 
hoped  is  now)  in  the  south  aisle  of  Boston  church. 
It  IS  a  memorial  of  Richaid  BoUe  of  Haugh,  who 
died  1591 ;  and  as  Holies,  white  giving  the  in- 
scriptioii  which  in  1640  existed  in  Latin,  made  no 
mention  of  the  plate,  Thompson,  who  extracts 
from  ZmcofasAu-8  Clu/rchet,  Divition  Holland,  p.  69 
(1843),  an  account  of  the  blaionina;  of  the  uxteen 
quartering  of  which  it  b  stated  to  consist,  le- 
marka  that  it  has  been  probably  renewed  uncs 
Holies'  time,  particularly  as  the  inscription  ia  now 
in  Engtish,  and  not  in  TAfin. 

Posaibly  in  such  renewal  the  plate  has  suffered, 
or  time  lias  caused  the  tinctures  to  appear  other- 
wise than  in  their  proper  coloors ;  but  if  the  ac- 
count descrities  the  plate  as  it  has  lately  appeared, 
it  is  very  far  from  being  an  accurate  descnplion  of 
the  armorials  of  this  old  Lincolnshire  family. 
For  instance,  the  fint  coat  (Bolla)  is  described  as 
"Sa.  3  lamps  or,  flame  ar.,"  while  the  name  is 
only  attempted  to  be  asugned  to  one  coat,  and 
then  Syme  ia  inserted  inst^id  of  Haugh. 

In  case  it  should  be  deemed  worthy  of  a  note,I 
append  a  mora  correct  description  of  the  arms, 
and  the  names  of  the  original  beanre  thereof,  so 
lar  as  I  hare  been  able  to  ascertNn  the  latter. 

1.  Ax.  out  of  3  cups  or,  aa  many  boars'  heads 
couped  arg. — Bollt. 

2.  Arg.  3  maces  aM«.—Pulvtrto/t. 

5.  Arg.  2  ban  gu.  on  a  chief  vert  3  besaDts.— 
Ajtgemtie. 

4.  Arg.  a  chevron  between  2  escallops  in  chief, 
and  a  cross  croaslet  fitchee  in  base,  gu. — UAi- 

6.  Arg.  a  chevron  between  10  cross  crossleta 
gu. — Haugh. 

6.  Sa.  a  chevron  between  3  bells  arg. — BM, 

7.  Party  per  pale  indented  or  and  gu.  a  crescent 
for  difierence. — Holland. 

5.  8a.  a  chevron  ermine  between  3  wings  arg. 
— Nttnfan  of  Devon. 

9.  Arg.  8  wolres  couiaot  ia  pale  ai. — Nanfan 
of  ComwalL 

10.  Cheqny  or  and  as.  a  chief  a^.  gntt^  de 
sang. — ColMiB. 

11.  Gu.  fretty  or,  a  canton  Ktg. 

12.  Arg.  S  chevronels  aa.,  the  fint  charged  with 
a  martlet  or. 

13.  Arg.  &etty  gu. 

14.  Arg.  a  chenoo  between  3  cioiieroiBleta  aa. 
within  a  botdnre  of  the  last  beiantde. — Fib,- 


16.  Gu.  a  chevron  between  3  cross  crosalets  or, 
a  lion  passant  in  chief  of  the  seoond, — Mabkl&orp. 
16.  Arg.  2  bars  engrailed  as- — Stai/ne, 
In  the  account  to  which  exception  is  taken,  the 
plate  is  treated  as  being  quarterly  quartered, 
whereas  the  sequence  of  tne  una  fulowing  the 
order  in  which  the;  were  aoqnired,  Mcoiding  to 


NOTES  AND  QUIIBIES. 


[4>&nL  Hat  1^11. 


the  fUDilr  pedigree,  k  fram^tta  dexter  to  tte 
Bmister  nae  of  the  nieM. 

PerintM  Mme  ooirMMndeot  can  ohKge  bf  m- 
sgniDg  the  namea  to  Noa.  11,  IS,  sad  18.  Hie 
ama  sppear  to  fane  iccnied,  in  addhioD  to  Nos.  8, 
0,  and  10,  by  Um  mMTiage  of  Richard  Bolle, 
mndfiitittt  of  Kckard  hefine  mentioiMd,  with 
Inhel,  nster  and  heir  of  Sir  Bidtatd  Nanfiui, 
whoae  firtber,  John  Nanfiui  of  Ooramll,  maniad 
Jane,  danrhter  aad  hmr  of  Bit  John  Goleehill. 
W.  E.  R 


UNPDBLISHED  LETTER  OF ESSEX. 

[Thia  lattsT  is  aowiig  the  p«p«n  in  tb«  pcManil  «f 
Uu  Duke  of  HanchEiMT.  It  bu  neither  date  nor  iddnn. 
Ii  there  uij  record  eziiting  of  the  dnel  «ith  Sir  Edward 
Barnton  ?  Hr.  Hepworth  Dixon  seemi  to  ha*e  orar- 
lodkcd  thli  letter  when  *eeklng  for  mtttar  Ibr  Tlu  Oawrt 
omdTiwKifromEiiMatMtoJmmM.  T.P.F.] 

Deare  Ebmx 

The  nuis  h  too  true  and  mr  edward  Bajnton 
who  mj  Sonne  fought  -with  ia  hnrt  bat  Tester- 
night  mj  Sonne  cam  from  ....  where  tfaer 
fought  and  wM  awored  bj  dockter  trrji^  and 
the  Birgea  that  aeaiched  the  wond  that  ther  ia 
no  danger  there  went  a  poet  a  man  of  my  lord  of  Sx 
with  a  later  from  the  Qoean  and  an  other  from 
my  lord  marquis  hartfor  to  ....  his  paidon  and 
aecuer  his  future  if  the  otiier  ahould  dje  wUch 
God  forhide  he  ahold  jon  mave  imagin  how  such 
an  acsedent  aa  this  wold  afflicte  me  to  .  .  .  . 
that  I  live  for  the  sinne  of  it  is  more  than  aony 
thinge  else  my  Sonne  Eo.  l;res  concealed  least  he 
shoiil  gooe  in  to  a  prison,  this  onfectioaa  tyme  for 
this  facte  cud  net  admitt  of  heinge  bailed  I  tnurt 
in  Qod  the  geutillmaa  shall  live  that  mj  Sonne 
be  not  so  nnfortonat  as  to  be  giltj  of  murder, 
four  Sister  knew  nothing  of  it  nor  shall  not  eo 
longe  as  I  can  kepe  it  from  hit.  This  will  kepe 
ns  from  coming  to  Lease  this  sumer  for  it  will  be 
fortendaf  befor  the  wonde  that  is  green  can  be 
healed,  and  all  that  trm  your  brother  Bo.  must 
conseale  himselfe.  Therefore  when  you  wold 
have  the  coach  send  {or  it  Icannotsend  yon  the 
pirticulers  for  I  have  letera  to  ryte  to  Simson  and 
my  Lady  Carlile  b^ng  here  tlus  day  I  wagfated 
on  hit  parte  of  the  way  and  came  not  home  till  it 
was  late — my  Sonne  to  your  [F]  Compaaj  your 

ax. 

I  fsare  tbst  whan  yor  Slater  know*  of  this 
acwdent  ahe  will  be  in  mat  affiiotioD  tboof^  her 

husband  be and  I  shal  he  in  fear  a  gnat 

while. 


Plant  mKu  la  Bttdidim  iaawwr-oa  "lAMan- 
htd  de  fieaamatdhaia,"  now  ^ititttd  fix  the  fint 
time.  ^  tMspqiermentifm  umadaofaoMlaia 
Abb<  de  Gerigney  enqdoyed  in  the  mannacn^ 
department  of  the  Eiog'a  Library.  This  abbiH 
spoken  of  u  having  beat  meet  nnscmpnloas,  ud 
aa  having  toU  many  of  tlie  manaseripts  conunitted 
to  Us  dnrga.  Be  made  tha  beet  eacoaas  beconld, 
bnt  the  accoimt  aaja — 

"EhtriBi,lenTplinvrait«<'TBdB  kdMAa^A,<l 
hnne  BriaanrhDl  I'm  dn  Ummi.  de  la  BiUiolUgM 
n  ju. J-OBfatd." 


Fbovxsbs. — *  Turn  coal,  never  be  rich."  AIlu- 


StTBRAxn  or  OmoiuB  m  m  Wxbt  bnim, 
Kcc.— On  looking  ant  the  tist  irf  office-heUiai  in 
tbeee  ookniea^  one  ia  stivck  witti  the  btqiMt 
lectuTeoce  <tf  the  same  name  in  the  smaller  is 
well  aa  tlie  laiger  iilanda.  Onee  in  office,  a  fimuly 
aeema  to  take  deep  toot,  ere*  dtkon^  it  be 
exotic;  and  it  is  p«ipetBaAed,  in  fte  same  spbete, 
irrespective  of  otaer  local  ties.  Some  </t  tiHSs 
names  are  ecattered  broadcast,  while  othen  are 
mteiMely  localised.  Thia  mooopoly,  aa  it  ware, 
aeenu  latterly  to  haTe  been  abudooed  in  Jamuca. 
In  Barbadoa,  of  forty-one*  oSdala,  there  ace  two 
Gores,  two  Panys,  two  Olaikes,  and  two  T^on. 
In  Bermudas  there  are  three  BattelliL  three 
&owDee,  two  EeoBs,  two  Tockui,  two  Gilberii, 
two  Bowyeai^  and  two  Hasreys.  In  i&itisb 
Gmana,  of  fiftv-two  tiSea^  th«ie  we  five  Abs- 
tins,  two  Walkers,  two  Ooxs,  and  two  FoUards. 
In  Daminica,  of  thirty-three  offidsls,  tliree  Lock- 
harts,  Uuee  Fellans,  three  Lloyds  two  BaUota, 
two  Johnaona,  and  two  TavetMn.  In  Gienada,  of 


WeDs.  In  Montaetrat,  of  twenty>«igirt  offioali, 
Sve  Dyette,  four  Headiea,  two  Peels,  two  John- 
sons, and  two  Sampers.  In  Nevi^  of  thir^-<Kie 
offimals,  fonr  Uavnards,  two  I>yettB,  two  Burkea, 
(Hie  Semper,  and  one  Wigiey.  In  Bt  ^^h  "^ 
twenty-seven  officials,  three  Bonidge^  three  En- 
lyns,  two  Elridgee,  two  Wigleya^  and  one  Semper. 
Li  Antigua,  of  thirtr-five  ommalis,  two  Nugests, 
two  Jurvises,  two  Merceia,  two  Thibons,  two 
Cottlk,  one  Feet,  three  Beynes,  three  Hyndmana, 
two  Haras,  and  two  Berkeley!.  In  Falkland 
Ishinds,  of  fifteen  offituls,  three  QaS&ilu,  two 
Bynge,  and  two  U'Clintons.  S. 

WiLLTiit  Gnjioss  Smn.— l%e  affixed  cut- 
ting from  the  New  York  correspondent's  letter  in 
7^  SUmdard,  June  SO,  ]  870,  may  interest  many 
leadera  of  "  14.  &  Q.,"which  seems  to  be  Ae  veiy 
paper  for  such  a  notice : — 

"  The  Santhem  States  have  1o»t  thdr  moat  promtnait 
and  verutile  msn  of  lcitt«rs  in  the  death  of  Mr.  WIDUm 
Qilntore  Knuns  oT  Soath  CuoUna,  whicb  erent  tDok 


*8.YILMArU,>71.] 


NOTES  AND  IJUERIES. 


plui  tnOitrlHtsDni  thalUbteitalt.  Hr.  SIbiu  b 
probabl;  litUe  known  in  '•'■^'"vii  vet  h«  iru  Uie  mcM 
prollfla  ot  Alt  American  antbori,  and  Uh  Uct  at  hit  miiiu 
woold  probably  reach  ont  to  a  fanndred.  He  wai  long 
the  editor  of  the  Somlh  Qiartttir  Jtntev,  ■  pnblioUloD 
lAieh  eeand  to  olM  before  thi  bmUoK  oot  of  tb>  wa 
of  n««iioa,iDdkM  not  tinea  been  nrivod;  bntbawioto 
WrtnriM,  bufrapUei,  poemt,  pll^i,  and  u  manr  nords 
u  theUteCfTP.  R.  Jamet,  wbom  MB  noreliat  ha  >ome- 
wbat  reaembled.  Mr.  Simmi  enjoyed  ft  one  time  a  con- 
rideraUe  popnlaritj  In  tbe  Nortbera  SMei^  and  in  earij 
life  m*  tbe  pemmal  friend  of  WaiUnJitoa  Irring,  W.  C. 
BrjanttandotheceuinentNortberawriten,  Heaapotued 
witliall  Uie  anergjof  htenatontbecanaeoftheSoutb 
Inltaewarorflienballlon.andaent  hii  ion  into  tbe  Add 


tbe  rerolntionaij  pmoA,  wblcb  bave  a  peimanent  talne 
as  pieaandng  locul  pluisei  that  have  long  paaaed  away, 
bis  beat  booka  were  probably  hii  Biilory  of  Sok&  Caro- 
UnOfLifiofatamalitrBttiaTd,  andfomoa  ^tDmibl- 
fiU  Flirt  of  Shaiapean." 

I  may  add  that  man  j  of  Mr.  Simms'a  Doveli  of 
New  OtIsmu,  South  Carolim,  aod  West  Axttaiom 
life  have  been  tnoelated  into  Oennaii  (Marit  de 
£tniiirB,  3  vols.;  Der Ktutike  wm Kiatoa,5  voU.; 
Da-  Parteigmfiw,  16  vol*. ;  Wiffwam  imd  BiUte  ; 
D«r  TmuuMt  Indiaaer,  &c.),  and  aia  nad  with 
much  interest  and  pleaanra  bj  the  loTer  of  the 
noTelsof  the  more  widelj-knownO.  F.  R.  James 
HxBium  KmDZ. 


lIlXS  AITD  FekaU  NtdOIBB  ass  LxiTEKiL — 

Asomaliea  have  beeu  oheerred  by  many  phUolo- 
giits  in  the  distribntaon  among  rarione  groape  of 
tanffo^e  of  nomeral  note,  recogniaable  aa  idett- 
tieu,  Irat  employed  to  express  divens  nnmbon. 

Mf  diief  object  on  the  preseot  ooadcoi  is  to 
call  attention  to  the  probul«  operation  on  nume- 
rals of  the  dual  and  conseqaeutly  aexnal  natem, 
which  prevailed  daring  the  Caucaso-'nbMan 
moA.  and  which  exercises  so  much  influence  on 
de  philoeoph;  of  the  Asi^rians,  the  Ohaldnans, 
and  the  HeWews,  sod  which  livea  ia  the  shape  of 
snpaistition  evem  to  this  di^. 

The  dednial  i^stem  of  a  hiod  of  five  flngen  is 
relatiTely  recent,  and  was  mreoeded  by  a  quater- 
nary system  of  a  hand  ti  four  flosers,  and  it  ie 
suDsequant  to  this  ^loch  the  niunbetB  three  end 
seven  woe  introduced.  The  finders  were  named 
as  in  West  Afiica,  and  the  pairs  on  the  right 
hand  were  1  uid  S,4  and  6;  on  the  left  hand, 
6  and  8,  9  and  10.  There  w«re  probably  other 
pairs  on  the  feet,  11  and  IS,  14  and  IS,  tc. 

^e  iMger  fingers  wonld  be  male  and  the 
smaller  female  in  the  devdopment  of  the  daal 
system.  The  larger  flngen  are  inedde  on  the 
onsteniaiy  syatem,  and  the  smaller  or  fmale 
nngsBs  are  oatnde  in  the  qntfemary  and  quinary 
wsinai.  Theraale  flngen  wonld  eonsequently  he 
8, 4,  S,  Md  9,  and  the  fea^  flngen  1, 5,  6, 


10.    It  can  be  obeerved  that  there  are  relations 

among  what  has  been  here  najned  the  male  group, 

and  likewise  amon^  the  female  ffnmp,  and  tbne 

ate  further  lingniatic  relations  between  the  Mua. 

Letten,  the  cabaUstic  relations    of  which  to 

urea  are  mil  known,  still  maint«n  tlie  relation 

solai  and  lunar  in  some  languages,  and  this 


lunar,  Dombet 
ItdiClabes. 


or  finger  name*.  Htdi 

8S,  St-Oaoige'B  Sqnaie,  S.W. 

"THsPnoMOAi  Sos  "  ST  Osnm's  "Houbf- 
ixe  GAUUirt,"  1S92.  —  Those  teaden  who  had 
the  rare  treat  of  seeing  in  the  late  Exhibition  of 
Old  Masters  the  fine  series  of  "  The  Prodigal  Son  "■ 
painted  by  Murillo  (ob.  168S),  or  who  have 
perused  Dean  Sifuiley's  deecr^tion  of  tbe  dz  pic- 
tures at  p.  120  of  the  present  volome  of  "N.&Q.," 
will  study  donbtless  with  no  small  amount  of 
pleamiTe  an  earlier  series  of  potaree  of  "The 
Prodigal  Son  "to  be  found  in  a  bkck  letter  pam- 
phlet, snpposed  to  be  rare,  entitled  Orwm't  Mount- 
«y  Oarmmt .  ...  both  pUoMmt  mii  pr^UMt,  by 
R.  Ortmt  a  humooaa  poet  who  died  1682,  and 
who  aaTS  of  himaelf  (x  it) — 

'  If  I  bara  been  thought aa  fall  of  amonra  aa 

Onid,  Tat  yen  will  vouhaaA  of  m;  Jftnmwiy  Qui  mnl, 
for  that  It  ia  the  Ont  &nila  of  my  Daw  labonr^  and  Hie  laat 
fanwall  to  my  fond  deiins  .  .  .  aa  tbli  li  the  firat  of  my 
nlbrmed  paariona,  ao  thii  ii  the  laat  of  my  trifling  pam- 
phkta." 

^e  litde  work  abonnds  in  vrise  aphorisms,  and 
coDtaina  at  least  one  pastoral  poem  or  great  merit, 
termed  "  Hie  Bbepheaids*  Wioee'  Son^ 

KoBJB  A30VT  CooKKK  (See  "  N.  Si  Q."  pauim.} 
In  the — 

Fornlfn  Intelligence,  with  the  Affairs  now  in  Agitation 
in  England,  Scotland,  and  Ireland.    For  tbe  Information 
ofSiTeopie.    July  9  to  Jnly  IB,  1660  "— 
I  find  tbe  follovring  carioos  advertisement; — 

■  The  Fen'i  Qallantrr  :  a  copv-bDok  containing  lOUdiy 
siamplea  of  all  tbe  eniians  handa  now  In  nae  ;  the  eeccnd 
imprudon,  with  the  addillona  of  ooort-band  copiea,  ez- 
qmaitely  parformed  1^  the  anthoi,  Edward  docker,  living 
an  tbe  aontb  aide  of  SL  Panl'i  Cbnroh,  where  he  teaehn 
the  art!  of  writing  and  aiithmedck  in  an  extiaordinai7 
manner.  Sold  bj  William  Place  in  Gray'a  Inn  Gato 
In  BolUnro,  and  Tboma*  Booka  at  the  H0I7  LaflA  at 
tbe  «ait  end  of  St.  Panl'a  Cfaaicbyard,  London." 

MAVtm  LmnHAV,  H  Jt.LA. 


"  lir  TBB  Straw." — I  hnded  this  ssyins'  had 
been  referred  to  in  "  N.  &  Q./*  but  do  not  find  it 
in  tiie  three  indexes.  The  fohowjn^  extract  pre- 
sents a  sUght  vaiiatioo,  possibly  arising  from  the 
poverty  of  the  mother  reierred  to : — 

"  Ha  baa  now  got  the  seventh  child,  and  the  wUh  ia 
piesentiv  at  tfa  ttraw,  lo  that  the  ten  ponnd  note  eame 
■BuouUv."— In  a  nota  from  Biaehin,  1767,  Jnne. 

W.P. 


408 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*'*8.VlI.MAYl4'n. 


Ah  Bnrrimi&L  CKS-rssAmut. — It  ia  atated  in 
the  PrnUer't  BegiiUr,  p.  Ill,  that  Mr.  Lewia 
Dosat,  latelr  deceased,  was  108  yean  old.  He  ie 
reputed  to  baTe  been  bom  in  the  British  West 
Indies,  to  have  been  engaged  on  the  Mommg 
CSa-onicU  newspaper  in  1788,  in  1804  to  have 
become  editor  of  The  Ohieraer,  from  which  he 
retired  in  1867,  and  lUed  March  8  in  tbe  in- 
vent year^— 1871.  A.H. 

I  We  believe  it  wu  only  in  The  Statdard  mi.  the 
FrSHlrr'$  tttgitter  that  the  age  of  Mr.  Dout  is  uirt  to 
have  bean  108  ;  whami  in  other  papan  it  in  itated  lie 
•ru  aged  niiiety-eigiit  irhen  he  died. — £t>.] 

fiurrittf. 

MEZZOTINTO  PBIST8. 

I  should  like  much  to  obtain  a  key  to  a  pair  of 
meiiotints  I  possess,  which  may  be  recoffniaed  by 
some  intelligent  correspondent  by  the  folloving 
unartiatic  description  (size  M  in.  by  18  in.) : — 

No.  1.  Scene,  apparently  the  regions  of  Pluto. 
On  the  right,  a  cluster  of  groteeqne  demons ;  in 
tlieir  midst  a  saintly  figure,  hanus  clasped  at  if 
eopplicating  the  mert^  of  a  ving^ed  mooater  in 
the  act  of  seizing  him  ;  the  others  presdng  around, 
uding  and  abetting;  ahove  their  heads  a  laifne 
fitfa,  bestrode  by  a  skeleton  goat-beaded  man 
placing  upon  a  pipe,  all  joining  indeed  in  one 
nsllieb  chorus  directed  at  tue  holy  man  they  have 
captured.  On  the  left  the  tm«e-headed  dog 
chuned,  meoadngly  rampant  in  the  same  direc' 
tion ;  a  figure  in  the  comer  holding  a  dilapdated 
birch  broom  over  the  heads  of  Cerberus. 

No.  3.  Scene  the  same.  In  the  centre  abomely 
elderly  female  paaaing ;  a  basket  on  her  left  arm, 
containing  apparently  drinking  vessels ;  her  apron 
also  filled  and  held  up ;  in  her  right  hand,  ele- 
vated, a  naked  sword ;  head  turned  and  eyes  bent 
on  the  three-headed  &og,  as  in  No.  I,  straining 
his  chains  to  get  at  her.  In  advaoce,  on  the  other 
side,  a  group  of  indescribable  demons  croucbino' 
together  at  tne  sight  of  the  sword;  the  prindp^ 
object  in  this  last  a  monster  with  skeleton -horse 
he«d,  cloth  thrown  over  the  body,  and  bestrode 
by  an  imp  with  owl's  bead,  sash,  sword,  spurs, 
bearing  s^ff  and  colours  i  la  miUlairt. 

Bats  flyins;  about  and  reptiles  filling  up  the 
fongionnd  of  both  pictures,  tvhile  shadowy  mon- 
sters occupy  the  parts  not  illumed  by  the  light 
ijHiing  from  the  infernal  caverns. 

In  CoUot's  engraving  of  the  "  Temptatioiu  of 
St  Anthony,"  where  the  arch-enemy,  overahadow- 
ia^  the  whole  picture,  vomits  devils  of  every  con- 
oetnble  ehape  upon  the  poor  saint,  I  find  some 
rMemblanoe  I«  my  meiiotint  In  this  and  No.  1 
there  is  notably  the  corresponding  incident  of  the 
hoW  man  in  the  grasp  of  the  winged  demon, 
which  suggest  that  all  may  be  but  varied  concep- 
tims  of  St  Anthony's  troubles,  of  which  then  I 
m,  I  believe,  nuny  j^totiid  versionsi         J,  O. 


AiTTKOK  Wamtm). — ^Who  waa  the  author  of 
Exerciaa,  Inttrvctive  and  Entertammi/,  in  Palm 
BttgUA,  seventh  edit  8vo,  Leeds,  1799  P  It  ia 
atated  in  the  preface  that  "  the  following  sheets 
were  written  for  the  accommodation  of  the 
author's  own  school."  The  first  edition  probably 
dates  in  1788.  My  copy  having  lost  the  last  page 
or  two  (after  110)  I  should  like  to  complete  it. 
There  is  a  work  with  a  similar  title,  about  the 
■ame  dates,  by  John  Perrin.  W.  P. 

Bkidobttdis  Nutib. — In  what  year  did  the 
nuns  of  Syon  return  to  England,  and  what  num- 
ber of  7%«  Timta  or  fiimu^  JfoiJ  contained  a  con- 
cise history  of  the  sisterhood,  written  on  the 
occasion  of  their  return  F  DAvm  Botce. 

[Ad  sccount  oT  the  raCuro  0!  tvelve  oans  to  EDgtsud 
of  (he  SDcleat  Convoot  of  Sjon  Honw,  or,  u  they  are 
CRiled,  Bridgettlne   Nana,  appeartd    in  the 


61,  p.  7. 

are  now  located  »t"8pBti»barv' convent  In  Uonetiblre. 
Conaolt  alw  Fnller's  Charek  Hittory,  book  vr.  net.  L 
3S^.  and  Chamben'a  B«>k  of  Da^;  ii.  105.1 

CHAuviinsicB. — What  is  the  origin  of  the  word 
Chaavmitmt  t  It  occurs  in  a  pamphlet  addressed 
by  Mr.  Karl  Blind  and  two  otber  Germans  Ay 
i'eupis  franfoit  et  i  ton  AsMinblfe  natiomUe,  and  is 
dated  London,  Feb.  I87I.  L.  V.  S. 

[LitCr^  In  bia  adminble  DietUnaiain  dt  Ut  Lmgue 
fivntaiu,  defines  Ckaumiiimt  "  •eDtimeat  dn  Cbaavio  "  { 


sad  sxpiains,'*(9iain-ui,noin  d'en  penonniga  daqoelqne 
denUiii  populures,  qui,  ezprimant  dei  MmUineati  d'un 
patriotiama  avengla  et  ^troit  an  mjet  d»  aaocM  et  dta 
raven  de  NapoWan  I",  eat  devenn  le  nom  de  eelid  qni  ■ 
del  aendmenla  exagrii^  et  ridionlea  da  patriatluna  et  da 
gnsrre.    Caat  lenlr  on  lan^iage  da  Chanvln."] 

Thb  Gbxvkok. — What  is  the  heraldic  authority 
for  the  belief  that  the  ancestors  of  those  who  bore 
a  chevron  on  thur  armorial  shield  visited  tbe 
Hoty  Land  in  the  time  of  the  Crusades  ?      8.  P. 

Ezeler. 

CLEJCENiTire  CnviBB, — Will  any  correspondent 
of  "  N.  4  Q."  kindly  inform  the  author  of  On  tA« 
Edge  of  the  ^orm  where  the  Memoir  of  Ctemtntau 
Cvvier,  daughter  of  the  great  tavant,  can  be  met 
with  F  It  IS  mentioned  and  quoted  from  in  the 
JVorM  Britieh  Smiato,  bat  no  bookaeller  can  give 
any  inibrmation  respecting  it 

TThe  Mtmtnr  of  Cletntidiiit  OmUr,  by  the  Raw.  Mark 

Wllka,  first  appeared  in  the  EiHntg^ieal  MaaoBae  flir 

Fall.  1838 ;  and  this  Intamting  menorial  of  Uia  joumg, 

beautiful  Gemeetipe,  -wu  reprinted  bv  John  Aeffdl 

lai  of  BirmbshaiD.  with  •■  Beflactkins.''     See  hii 


COKBITT  or  CHlDfiWJtT-COBBKTr,  CO.  WOR- 

CMm. — Can  any  one  tell  me  how  this  family 
was  connected  with  the  Oorhetaof  Cans  and  Wat- 
tleaborougb  ? 

It  appears  that  in  17  Ed.  L  Roger  Ootbat  died 
ieiaed  of  lands  in  Womaterahira  and  QlauoMtar>- 
ohira,  leaving  WilHam,  hia  aoo  and  hHi,  then 


tfkfl.TlI.lLLXU,'?!.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIE& 


40» 


niid«r  Ke :  and  tliat  Aids,  tha  mother  of  tlie  wd 
Boger,  neld  ■  third  part  of  the  manoT  of  Chaddea- 
ley  in  dower.    (Esch.  18  K  L  27.) 

The  Mid  Alda  or  Ada  waa  tiie  widow  of  a 
William  Cwbet.  and  it  appears  &om  her  poet^ 
mortem  inqnirition  (19  Ed.  I.  8),  that  she  held 
the  whole  of  the  manor  of  "ImeneTe"  of  Peter 
Corbet  br  reason  of  the  mioori^  of  William,  tii* 
son  and  heir  of  Roger  Corbet^  who  wm  also  her 
heir.  H.  S.  O. 

Dbhuc  or  EuuBXTH  dx  l'Abohk — Can  taj 
of  ^onr  corraspondeots  throw  taj  light  on  thu 
subject;  and  if  it  be  not,  u  I  nthtr  auapect, 
att^tbei  a  myth  F  T.  C.  S. 

Earn  AB  AH  ABncLX  ot  Food,— I  cannot  call 
to  mind  snj  mention'  in  the  sacred  writings  of 
this  most  Dutiitioua  of  animal  substances.  I  may 
say  the  same  of  the  profane  authors,  with  the 
exception  of  Plutarch  in  his  Morgft,  I  cannot 
recall  where ;  bnt  he  records,  either  of  himself  or 
'  J  the  moath  of  hia  coUoauists,  a  parti slity  for 
)gg  of  the  domestic  rowl.  Wss  there  any 
reason  (religions  or  superstitious)  for  their  avoid- 
ance hy  Jaw  and  Qentjla  P  J.  A.  O. 

Cuiabrooke. 


Wtl 


tOai 


qnarr  will,  ws  think,  ba  fnlly 
rered  by  two  runiliAi  puugM—"  Or  if  he  ahiU  tit 
tgg,  iriU  he  nBm  him  ■  acorpion  ?  "  (Lake  xL  13) 


■nd  ue  BTldenu  u  to  the  Qcntile  me  of  sgn  is  shown 
in  tiie  Luin  ptorerb :  "Ab  oro  nsqiw  ad  Bulla."] 

Oatb,  Islb  or  Ma>. — ^In  Uill's  Ordinance* 
ami  StatuUt  of  the  I»U  of  Jim  (ed.  1821,  p.  12), 
menti(»i  is  made  of  "  A  Court  of  all  the  Commons 
of  Han,  holden  at  the  Castle  of  Rusbm  betwixt 
the  Qatee  by  Henry  Byron,  LieuL  of  Msu,  upon 
Tuesday  next  after  the  xx''  day  of  Christmas, 
anno  domiui  1430."  What  is  the  meaning  of  be- 
twixt the  gates,  and  on  which  day  of  the  month 
was  the  court  held  P  A.  E.  L, 

«Tes  OsiATKn  Clxkxs  abx  nor  tox  Wibht 
Mxn." — Who  is  the  author  who  orinnated  the 
following  phrase:  "The  greatest  cleiks  are  not 
the  wisest  meo  "  P  J.  H. 

[Tin  line  cornea  from  Chaucer :  - 


■nd  wlU  be  bond  In  Thi  Rm'i  Ti^  (L  406!,  TttwUU'b 
eifitiai),  and  oot  in  Tin  Miiiar't  TaU,  a»  smweoolly 
■Ulad  by  Hr.  Thonu  in  hli  nolei  to  Cuton'*  Rtynard 
iht  Fox— an  error  which  has  been  reputwl  br  other 
■write™.  The  phnae  U  slao  to  be  fonnd  in  Saynard, 
-where  the  Inddent  of  the  woif  end  the  nun^  to  which 
Chaaoer  nfm,  will  be  ftmnd;  aee  p.  85  of  Hr.  Tliaaui's 
reprint;  and  in  johnon'i  OicHonarji  (we  edition  bj 
Lathim,  (.  a.  "  Clerk  ")  >  almlhu'  psiuge  U  quoted  from 
SODth:  "Tbe  enateat  clerka  Uiag  not  always  tbe 
boneeteat,  tnj  mote  than  (be  wbeat  men."] 

HnuLDiO. — I  poaseas  an  old  nlver  seal,  with 
■nu  aa  follows  i — Or  on  a  chevron  engrailed  aiui«. 


three  Halteae  ccoasea  argent.    To  what  family  da 
theae  aims  belong  ?  F.Q.h. 

t,  Lambeth  Terriet. 

Two  brothers  man^  and  leave  uane  male.  Tha 
tltUr  line  diea  out  enbrely  at  the  end  of  aome  two 
hundred  vean,  bat  in  the  meantime  hdieiMS  bftve 
brought  beah  quailerinKS  into  their  ooat  aimonr. 
When  the  younger  »oti  s  deaeendante  become  Hho 
lepreeentatlvea  of  both  lines,  do  they  also  bear 
quarteiings  hrou^t  by  the  helreasea  into  the. 
elder  line  before  it  became  extinct  ? 

W.  M.  H.  C. 

JoAir  s'Abo. — Some  years  back  a  book  eama 
oot  denying  that  the  Maid  of  Orleans  was  bumed 
at  Rouen,  and  affirming  that  she  nmpl^  retired 
into  obacarity.  It  addM,  that  "  The  Uaid  "  mar- 
ried and  bore  children,  whose  descendants  did,  for 
several  generatioiiB,  receive  a  peomon  &om  the 
French  crown  in  acknowledgment  of  the  services 
of  their  ancestress.  Of  the  title  of  this  book  I  am 
totally  ignorant;  but  I  have  been  informed  that 
it  was  renewed  in  The  Aihat^itm,  and  thinking 
it  likely  that  many  persons  may  remember  that 
review,  I  am  tempted  to  appeal  to  the  good  nature 
of  anv  one  able  and  wilfing  to  tell  me  in  what 
year  uiis  review  speared. 

NosLL  Bunauns. 

[The  ETDunda  of  donlit  whSob  of  late  years  liave  risen 
among  French  antiqnariea  as  to  tbe  faetMolbre  nni|vas- 
tioned  Act  of  the  death  of  Joan  d'Are  at  Rouen,  append 
in  a  ptlvataly-printed  votame  eolMad  JEhmte  aiMorimM, 
br  If.  Octave  Delspierre,  (lie  learned  Bdglan  oonaid  in 
^igUad.  An  analyiia  of  tbia  work  will  Iw  tbnnd  in  TAe 
Aatrntum  of  Sept.  15, 1855,  p.  1047.  Consalt  alw  Cbao- 
ben-e  Book  of  Day,,  L  702;  sod  -N.  &  Q,"  P>'  S.  iiL 
44T,Slii  8^8.11.46,98.] 

EippBK.— What  are  the  derivadoa  and  mean- 
ing of  this  word  as  applied  to  salmon  P  It  is 
thought  here  to  be  tbe  same  as  keeper.  Wehatet 
defines  it "  lean  and  unfit  for  use." 

A.  MntSLKiOH. 

School  Hone^  Eingabridge,  S.  Devon. 

Mak  Tbafs  aub  Spbinq  Quits. — ^Wben  I  was 
young,  I  was  often  deterred  hoia  trespassing  by 
the ominoos  warning:  "Treapasaers beware!  man 
traps  and  spring  gans  set  here."  I  see  none  of 
eucn  warnings  now.  Are  they  oat  of  date,  or  have 
they  been  abolished  bylaw?  If  the  latter,  when  P 
Oxoxei  LUTS. 

Cramlington. 

[By  an  aet,  7  A  8  Geo.  IT.  e.  18  (May  M,  ISW),  any 
peraon  aetting  any  aprine-gon,  man-trap,  or  other  en^ne 
ciliciilated  to  deatrt^  life,  or  Inflict  grievooa  bodily 
harm,  waa  to  be  gnilty  oT  a  miademeanoor.  The  sot  did 
not  extend  to  Scotland.  By  the  fborth  clinie,  apiing- 
gona,  &a,  might  be  eet  iniida  a  dwellinf-hoDae  for  the 
protection  thereof,  from  (onMt  to  annHBa.] 

Thb  Queks:  Ehpbbw  or  InuL— What  is 
the  date  of  the  London  QaaelU  in  which  Qbmd 


410 


NOTES  AKD  QtJEBIES. 


C^B-nr-JbTi^TL 


Vit^rU  was  gazetted  "Empras  of  Lidia,"  tlraa 
officuUy  uauminff  tliAt  titleP  M<  W. 

[Wa  da  not  bcUen  that  in?  aadt  proeliTniHon  ku 
beea  uuertod  in  tlie  Gaxtttt,  Tbe  Qdmo,  In  ber  pm- 
clnnatfoa  lo  tbe  people  of  India,  mada  known  to  taa 
br  tte  0«*«ner  Ommti  froaa  Allahabad,  dMed  Nov.  1, 
lUa,  dnoribia  bwaalr  H  "  Vktoiia,  br  tk*  Gaaee  of  eodt 
«f  tha  Unttad  g'-y''""  af  Gnat  Britain  aod  IiaUad, 
and  af  tbe  Cotoaies  and  Dependendca  theno^  in  Eunipa, 
Alia,  AfHca,  America,  and  Aoatimlla,  Queen,  Defender  of 
Am  Ftlth."  WUla  in  the  prodaniaUon,conBtltntiiie  tiM 
Order  of  the  Staiaf  India  (tn  fta£onJiw  0»wm  efV— 
2(ly  lUl),  lln  <|neen  appointa  "  bar  H«in  and  Soeeenon, 
Einsa  and  Qoeena  Regnant  of  the  Dnltad  Eingdom,  to  be 
SmMipia  of  tba  Onki.'] 

"Thi  Shrvbs  of  PABiTAasTrs."— Wbo  was  the 
author  of  Tk»  Sirvbi  of  Panuumu,  a  varistj  of 
poetic^  MaajR  (London,  1760)  F  "  J.  Copywell, 
Esq.  of  Lmcoln'e  Inn  "  is  named  as  the  author, 
but  that  b  sappoeed  to  be  a  nam  d»  plutnt,  eepa- 
dallj  as  DO  such  name  can  ba  found  on  the  books 
cfthatsode^.  H.  T.  £. 

'  SiMiLnjTO  HocLT."— Who  wrato  this  song, 
H  Riren  in  Byml  £xtrweU,  8vo,  "  Poetor,"  b.  W. 
p.8«rofeifitionl796;  md  also  "  The 'thought ; 
or,  a  Song  of  Similes,"  on  p.  847  P  Snee  wntioc 
the  above,  on  opening  an  octaTo  Tc^nme  entitled 
Antidole  to  Mtbmeholg,  I  sea  1h«  first-named  song 
is  set  to  a  umple  air  for  two  rocalists;  still  no 
Htftor's  name  i^pean.  W.  P. 

"  PvKTBUT  01  L<nD  Swnra,  irin  comusded 
a  Scotch  Regiment  seiilag  imdsr  QoataTna  Adol- 

ens,  by  QeoTge  Jameaon,  No.  2S1.    Lent  br  the 
rl  of  Crawford  sod  Bakwras  "  (vUe  Cataloftne 
''   ofthe  late  Exhibition  of  Old  MasletaiKfintlingtDn 
House]).  Of  what  family  was  Lord  Spjnie  ?  and 
what  is  known  of   bis  career  and   adrentores 
'   beyond  the  &cts  stated  aboTe  f 

Nom.  Baucutpb. 
[Ahzander,  aeoood  Lord  Spynie,  of  the  Lindsay  Ikmlly, 
saebaedad  hia  btber  In  1607,  and  tbe  same  year  bad  ■ 
charter  to  bim  and  Joanna  Don^^aa  bla  wiA  of  anenl 
landi  la  For&nhire.  He  fought  in  Germanr  under  the 
banners  of  GnitaTus  Adolphns,  and  aeqgired  Ugh  r<pu- 
tsUon  aa  ■  bnre  sad  gallant  offloer.  He  nsrriad,  Srat, 
Joanna  Dsaglss;  saeoodly,  iMdj  Haigant  Hay,  only 
dan^ter  of  Ueorge,  first  Bttl  of  Kinniinl,  high  chan- 
esllor  of  Scotlsud,  and  by  the  last  had  Isne  two  aona  and 
two  dangbtera.— DoD^as'e  Pan^t,  by  Wood,  it  filfU] 

Walpoli'b  NAUr-BRiTSH, — In  An  Eitay  on  the 
Study  of  the  Hittory  qf  England,  by  Major  Samuel 
Dales,  F.SA.,  London,  1809,  8to,  thU  pasaafe 
oeetm  at  p.  193:  "Walpole  was  expelled  the 
boose,  on  a  s^^tion  that  he  bad  not  used  s 
nml-brush."  This  incident  is  said  to  hare  hap- 
pened during  the  reign  of  Anne,  about  1710. 
What  can  the  above  statement  refer  toP  I  will 
be  Tety  thankful  for  any  information  on  this  sub- 
j«t,  if  known  to  "  N.  &  Q."  Jas.  Thewp. 


WoscKsmisHiBX  Amn.— I  widi  1 
what  arms  were   bonte  bj  tha  itTi^«rnmi|<qniu»i1 
sheriffs  of  Worcastushtre : — 

17S6.  Isaac  Snow  of  Tredington. 

17S9.  John  Hsct  of  8htpBtoa-<m-Stoaii 

1741.  Nicholaa  Bannet  of  Betbrone^rtoB. 

1749.  Tho.  Watson  t£  Bewdley. 

1761.  Geo.  Holland  of  Tanbuir. 

176S.  Tho.  Phillips  of  Stourbndee. 

1779.  JohnFoetarofWotdaley.* 

1781.  John  Darin  of  fitadtn. 

1798.  Jobs  StewMd  of  aims. 

1797.  Hoaea  Harper  of  Astl^. 

1819.  John  Jeffinra  of  Blakebnx^ 

182a  Geo.  Here£tb  of  Beningtrat  Ooort. 

Abt  geaaalogical  notes  and  a  deaoripdoa  at  tito 
anns  bome  by  tbe  fbUowiiw,  who  occur  in  a  lilt 
of  Wotcestenbire  mntty  dated  1660,  will  >Iao  be 
thaakfu%  receaved :  Oarew  of  Littieton,  Kemp- 
Btm,  SeatoD,  Sly,  Tyckiidge,  Tyrer  of  I^tky,  sod 
Whitney  of  Ciooms.    H.  Sxmnx  QxAzaBBOOC 


Wbbcks  at  Ska  ;  teb  Txmnx. — I  ham  nade 
many  fruitless  endeavoun  to  find  an  aceonnt  of 
the  wreck  of  the  brig  Temple,  Hldwintsr  mastsr, 
about  April,  1839,  off  the  CaymaoM  in  tke  Car- 
ribean  sea.  The  paassngers  and  crew  escaped,  and 
were  aubseqnently  brou^t  to  V^^ilbA^  sAk  a 
month's  sojourn  on  those  i«i »■"!■,  by  Capb  Butn 
of  the  barque  Thelis.  Tbe  owner*  of  the  ftmner 
vessel  were  J<rfin  Bonrite  Kcketta,  menkart  of 
Leadeab^  Street,  and  C.  N.  I^llinor  at  HarM- 
ton  House,  Kingston-on-Thames.  I  sbovtd  be 
much  obliged  to  any  ewreepoadent  who  would 
Bssiat  me  in  obtaining  any  newspaper  luweit  of 
the  above.  Then  ought  to  be  lucn  a  reooiv.  Hy 
object  is  to  obtain  the  names  of  the -~" 


HDRAL  PAINTING  IN  STARSTON  CHTBCH, 

NOKfOLE. 

(40-  S.  vi.  pauan ;  vii.  40, 172,  245, 9SS.) 

Mk.  Wallbk  has  invented  a  new  theory  on  the 
Bubjeet  of  this  punting,  »X  the  same  tiasa  diaaiw* 
lag  my  view  utat  it  represanta  Ae  death  of  ths 
Blessed  Vtr;^  as  "  so  utteriy  untenaUe  a  pn- 
position  that  It  is  mere  waste  of  time  to  consider 
it**  He  states  that  when  ha  wrote  in  answer  to 
F.  a  H.  he  had  not  the  dxawin^  by  him,  hot  that 
having  sines  minntely  studied  ita  tfetaiis  he  fi*^ 
ths  deeeriptipii  by  "that  writer"  inaccmate,  sad 
that  ell  deduerious  from  it  fidL  But  "thet 
writer "  has  also  atodied  tJiem,  and,  with  u>' 


'  Ur.  Foster  waa  a  member  of  an  enciiBt 
ahiie  family  noticed  in  Niebols'a  history  of  tt 
bat  tbe  fSmlly  anna  are  not  given. 


*»8.TH.MirJe,'7»,] 


NOTES  AKD  QtJBBlES. 


41:1 


dnviiig  now  Mom  Ubi,  tb  prepwtd  k>  mBiataiii 
the  accoracj  of  hie  deBcnption. 

The  new  theorr  pot  forth  bj  Me,  WAiisK  ia 
tiut  the  dAas  alftmriu  «aaJ(arwith  the  arad- 
fizion,  k  |riett  b  eA«fMUf  standiiig  hj,  and  reach- 
ii^  Ufmadt  %  tonaand  fignre,  appuentlj-  to 
medn  the  rmU  or  scbednt*  which  he  holds,  end 
on  whkh  u  an  iosealptioa.  But  there  u  no  akar. 
What  he  calk  one  ia  merely  &e  bead  of  the  bed, 
supported  br  a  thick  sqiuure  poet  sbmdiiv  on  the 
gTonnd.  Tm  leag  tide-piece  of  the  b»a  comes 
dose  iqi  to  it^  aad  ^praentlj  fits  isto  it  Of  tMa 
fntute  he  twee  no  notice :  it  is  in  fact  sabrei- 
nve  of  his  whole  theovr,  which  win  appear  as 
we  jrooeed.  !  tUnk  I  loiow  yrbei  b  aWwuMo  is, 
after  weaiii^  one  for  half  a  oenturj';  and  the 
figure  readuDO'  out  his  arms  doet  not  imw  a 
JmMi,  bnt  a  mud  of  cope,  or  a  mere  doak.  The 
i^reeentatien  of  the  cradfixion  is  meielj  a  pio- 
tme  or  taUet,  not  atandiBg  in  the  imMle,  nor  eren 
sear  the  midale  (rf  hia  sappoeed  attir,  but  at  one 
eomei^-fai  fact  fixed  up  at  the  bedade.  "That 
which  hae  beoi  called  a  diield,"  ha  continues,  "ia 
«ertaail;'  no  shield  at  alL"  Tery  likelj,  but  it 
could  nerer  hsve  been  meant  tm  a  eAo&e,  as  he 
aaTB  he  "  ahoald  im^ine  it  to  hare  been."  For, 
at  any  titA,  the  otjject  ia  A^ed  like  a  ahisld,  and 
tat  too  laiBe  for  a  chalice,  and  haa  ndther  stem 
nor  DmA  The  flg<»e,  Tamember,  is  etratching  out 
hie  hnds,  odttter  «  which  appeaie  to  hold  tiia 
dddd ;  and  iriwt  then  could  a  chalice  be  foi  P  It 
Btaj  evea  be  a  piece  tS  embroidery  attached  to  the 
drMS  of  the  firnre  standing  behind.  Bnt  having 
imagiiMd  aa  utar,  he  4^  course  wanted  a  ohdice, 
and  BO  a  large  Jtat  shield-like  object  is  made  to 
do  duty  f«  a  mmd,  cupped,  stemmed,  and  footed 
choice. 

"There  is,"  be  a<lda,"adiaperedcaTerin^  which 
IcanaottUnkieintMdedfoTabed."  No,mdeed; 
for  it  is  an  optiffht  soeen  of  wood  t«  stHne  solid 
matsrlal  pasnted  in  dbper,  and  standing  up  as  a 
parlitten  on  the  tide  of  the  bed.  It  haa  no  bend, 
not  fold,  nor  doee  it  show  tiie  least  dgn  of  bdng 
aaed  as  a  corsring.  "  h  &ont  of  this  covering, 
he  contanuee,  "is  what  sppears  to  be  a  eamd 
tomb."  This  ia  simply  the  Iowa  perl  of  the  bed- 
etsad,  not  standing  at  all  distant  nom  the  dUeet 
jiBt  described,  bat  flush  with  it ;  and,  as  I  belon 
observed,  joimngvp  to  the  tbickjpoetat  tiiebed' 
head,  and  not  projecting  befine  it  This  puts  h 
eztingmaheT  at  once  upon  the  idea  of  its  being  a 
caned  tomb  some  way  befbre  the  altar.  Whet 
are  we  now  ta  think  of  Me.  Wulkk's  dogmati- 
cal dadaoo  P  "  What  I fii-aaiiaii:i  to  be  aa  altar 
has  evident^  been  anatahen  for  a  pillow."  Who 
ever  saw  an  altar  supported  by  a  thick  aqnsn 
'  with  a  long  Hde  piece  of  a  bed- 


post, cmmected  with  a  long  k 


Harr  Magdalen.  Shehad  pnadisd  atMareeiUes, 
ahe  lived  in  the  desert,  and  had  frequently  the 
coanmaioB  irf  annls.  Fmdingherend  to  benear, 
shesentwordto  Mazifmn,  Bi^op  of  Aix,  that  ahe 
would  appear  at  a  certain  Iuhk  ia  the  oratory  in 
iritis  he  peifoimed  bb  davodsas.  Mazimin  mc- 
oaf^tgijf  utmmbUd  tk$  vhrfff,  sad  went  into  the 
oiato^  at  the  time  i^potated,  sad  then  fbond 


.  Ms.  Wallhs  pro- 

bte  this  tram,  tke  tHA  OenniB  aocoants ; 
bnt  why  dU  he  not  quote  them  ftuly  and  eor- 
rectl;y  P  To  hare  done  wo  wouM  have  been  ftrtal 
to  hu  new  spaouUtioa.  The  stint  ssnt  tc  ' 
the  bishop  that  he  was  t 


A  was  to  go  int»  his  cfcrdt,  net 


thehi 


..  ., „.  hour  of  matt,  and 

he  was  to  go  tUmU,  not  mmMmg  km  dtrfs,  as 
Ma.  WAOas  mqniied  for  Us  eiplanalioa.  Han 
ia  As  Oenurn  ongiaal  :— 

oNanbatmir  KM  gtfcrdcM  ndiD  ewtgaoMMBdaa 
Mie  dn  dw  ttedMr  HaziiBlna  MgMi  Bri  ales  die  da  TOD 
mir^diert  hast  HBad  aprlck  mod  w  ^dn  SaBUgn 
mettin  aofitM,  u  ■all  w  uflyit  in  die  Hrefu*  gMB  bo 
fladat  et  miob  darind." — Punoief,  M77. 

Though  Maxim  in  oidend  his  own  tomb  to  be 
made  near  that  of  ttM  aunt,  he  at  first  had  a 
marble  tomb  made  for  hec,  and  laid  her  in  it 

-DahltMiwlMhiiiMteiaiBmJUilaleiwihBiadwa. 

wt  Ufl  Maritm  MagMtmmt  ianM'—Ihid, 

Mb.  Wallis  indeed  Wis  eomiiletdy  m  hia 
apidieation  of  the  legSDd  to  the  pmntiag  at  Stat- 
stoo.  Thete  is  ao  altar  mi  no  pneet  in  eucbans- 
tic  vestments,  as  he  represents,  and  indeed  ndthei 
oonld  have  ham  nssa  at  the  midnight  hour  of 
matins;  and  though  the  Holy  Coaummicm  was  ad< 
mimatered,  it  was  not  I7  a  psiest,  hot  by  a  bishop. 
"The  diaMied  covesing,"  he  says^''ia  doubtlMs 
over  the  dead  body."  Kit  it  st«tds  up  aa  stmight 
as  a  wall,  snd  is  not  ealenktsd  foe  ai^  iott  of 
covering.  Then  he  kaagiaes  the  conqioaone  lady 
to  be  a  ponceai  converted  by  St.  Vmj  Magdalen, 
and  afttrwasds  restored  to  His  by  her  mtetcssmonj 
bat  tlua  fails  in  eve^  **?•  *^  *^  scene,  Ms. 
WAuaa  teys^  is  the  (fanA  of  lA*  tttmt,  and  we 
have  just  seen  that  no  one  waspwueitt  at  that 
but  Oe  bidiop.  Monover,  St  Muy  Magdalen 
had  lived  ia  a  cave  foe  thirlv  yean  witfcont  seeing 
any  ht^wn  being.  Was  it  likely  that  a  lady 
oonverM  so  long  before  would  have  «vra  known 
the  time  or  place  of  her  death  P  The  same  objeo- 
tions  app^  to  hia  soppomtioa  that  the  veiled 
figure  near  this  lady  would  be  Martha;  for  ahe 
lived  away  &om.  her  nster  ia  her  monsstety  at 
Taicasccma,  bad  never  seM  bar  aster  for  at  feast 
tbitt^  yssra,  and  may  even  have  died  befase  her. 
I  think  we  may  now  apply  to  Mb.  .Wailbb's 
new  theory  his  otfn  words :  "  it  is  so  utterly  nn- 


KOTEB  AKD  QUEBIBb. 


[«»B.TILKATlt,tL 


taoftUa,  tlut  it  ia  men  waita  of  time  to  eoi^ 

I  adheie,  then,  to  my  original  intanntalaon, 
that  the  jiaintiag  MpreMnta  tlie  deata  of  the 
BleiMd  Virgin  1^^. 

I  have  two  medinval  woodont*  of  her  death, 
the  det^k  of  -which  goffioentlj  mnaat  the  can- 
elusion  that  the  eame  satQect  is  rapreaented  in 
the  Stanton  painting.  In  each,  the  tu«e  Apostlee 
Peter,  Jamea,  and  John  are  etaadiog  oloM  to  the 
bed ;  and  in  one  of  them  St.  John  wean  a  cope, 
and  exteada  hia  hands  over  the  bed.  In  the  other 
St.  Jamea  folds  hia  handa  upon  hia  bnMt,  jmt  as 
he  doea  in  the  fresco  before  os.  As  to  the  priii' 
cipal  female  figure,  she  has  a  Ten  nmarSaUe 
dugnoD  confined  in  a  net,  and  a  umcifal  head- 
diMH  with  strings  under  hei  chin,  BiacUf  aceoid- 
ing  with  the  modem  fashion ;  hat  I  can  see 
nolliing  that  could  be  meant  for  a  coronet.  I  take 
hei  to  be  one  of  thoae  devout  females  who  at- 
tended  upon  the  mother  of  our  Lord,  and  she  maj 
be  Seraphia,  who  was  a  rich  lady  long  intimate 
with  the  Holy  Family.  The  flgnre  boldiog  the 
scroll  agrees  completely  with  the  medieval  re- 
presentations of  St.  Peter.  We  may  dismiss  the 
rulation  as  to  the  inscription  on  the  scroll,  and 
miracle  which  Mb.  Wallbk  would  connect 
with  it,  because  the  reading  is  uncertun,  and  the 
miracle  could  not  have  happened  at  ue  death 
scene  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen,  becanse  no  one  bnt 
tlie  luahop  was  present,  and  also  becanse  the 
miracle  never  happened  at  the  saint's  tomb  at 
Aix,  but  at  YetelBy  in  Burgundy,  whither  her 
tomb  bad  been  transported  many  years  aftra  her 
death.  So  Mr.  Waixzb's  new  theotj  break 
down  completely. 

I  had  adduced  the  two  angels  carrying  np  the 
soul  to  heaven  as  coll«t«ral  evidence,  teatiQrinff 
to  the  immediate  assumption  of  the  Bleoeed 
Virgin.  I  know,  as  well  as  Ub.  Wallsb,  the 
Eastings  brass  and  other  similar  cases;  bnt  I 
vriehed  to  proteet  against  similar  presumption 
with  rsepect  to  othen  than  aaints.  He  told  us  in 
bis  former  paper  (p.  173)  that,  as  none  of  the 
figures  have  the  tumbus,  the  omission  is  of  itself 
a  fatal  objection  to  its  representing  the  "  death  of 
tiie  Virgm."  Doea  he  not  see  that  it  must  be 
eqnallT  mtal  to  the  subject  bang  the  death  of  St. 
Jim  Magdalen  P  Bnt  in  reidi^  it  woold  be 
fatal  to  neither,  for  many  ezampln  an  met  with 
where  even  the  holiest  of  petacms — Jesus  Christ 
himself— is  represented  evea  in  old  cata  and  scolp- 
tnre  without  a  mmtms. 

I  am  content  now  to  leave  the  reader  to  deter- 
mine whether  myopponent'baB  ahown  that  "veiy 
extensive  acquaintance  with  medinval  art,"  with- 
out which  ha  pronouioed  it  "  Teij  dantteroDs  to 

dnamatiaa  "  p_  (J_  2_ 


DATE  or  CHAOCZR'a  BIKTB. 

(4*  8.  TiL  838.) 
Mb.  Thokb'b  argument  would  have  been  allow- 
able twenty  yean  ago;  bnt  sow  tbat  the  Keeptr 
of  the  USS.  in  the  British  Mnseom,  Mr.  £.  A 
Bond,  has  printed  the  entriea  in  the  HonaehoU 
Book  of  Efisabeth,  Counteia  of  Ulsber,  and  info 
of  Prince  Lionel,  son  of  Edward  IIL,  showing 
payments  to  or  for  Chancer  three  times  in  ths 
years  I36d-&,  when  he  was  prolM^T  her  page— 
and  now  that  modem  critiaam,  in  the  ponons  of 
Professor  Ten  Brink  and  Mr.  H.  Braduiaw,  has 
^own  that  "  The  Codkow  and  the  Nigbti^gals" 
is  not  Chauoer's— it  ia  mtbar  hard  to  ask  us  to 
accept  the  old  suppodtions  that  satisfied  the  bit 
generation. 

I  contend  that  there  is  no  need  to  alter  the  il. 
of  the  Sdope  and  Qrosvenor  roll  to  Li.  Surely 
Chaucer  must  have  told  the  recorder  that  he  was 
forty  and  more,  as  well  as  that  he  hod  been 
armed  for  twenty-seven  years.  The  latter  date 
is  assuredly  right,  for  it  givea  us  the  year  of 
Edward  IlL's  expedition  to  France,  13G9,  in 
which  Chaucer  was  taken  prisoner.  Then  why 
should  the  former  date  be  wrong  P  Supposs 
Chaucer  bom  in  1340 ;  be  is  then  a  page  to  I%ce 
Lionel's  wife  in  1366-6;  and,  wiUi  the  prince. 
joins  Edward's  army  in  1359  at  nineteen  years  U 
age— a  much  more  likely  period  for  a  young  f^- 
low  in  that  d^  to  take  to  arms,  than  the  tfair^ 
one  that  the  1328  date  would  make  him.  lie 
poet's  "residence  at  Oxford  or  Camloidge,  otat 
taj  Lm  of  Court,"  ia  all  gammon  and  guess :  thsn 
is  no  evidence  for  it. 

Next,  one  of  Chaucer's  eorlieet  poems  is  "The 
Dethe  of  Btaunche,"  in  1469.  It  is  essentially 
the  work  of  a  young  hand,  of  a  man  under  thirty, 
and  not  of  a  mature  age  like  forty-one  or  fartj- 
two,  as  the  1328  date  would  make  Chaucer  at  the 
time — an  age  at  which  he  might  have  written 
ITta  Sotue  of  Fame.  The  eorlydate  for  Chaucer's 
birth  would  force  ns  to  anppose  t^t  he  wrote 
such  tales  as  the  Reve's  ana  Miller'a,  brimful  <£ 
taa  as  they  are,  when  he  was  between  ux^  and 
seven^,  and  would  otherwise  make  a  "»«»  of  tha 
chronology  of  the  poet's  works. 

Occleve's  portrait  of  Chaucer  is  sai«Iy  one  of 
a  man  not  above  sixty.     He  doubtless  pomled  bis 
master  as  he  saw  him,  shortly  befoce  his  death. 
F.  J.  FuBFiriU. 

Will  Mk,  Thow  allow  me  to  nmind  Um  thst 
Shakspere's  deeoiption  of  Chauoer's  frirad  and 
patron  as  "  old  John  of  Gaunt,  time-lHaottred 
Lancaster,"  ia  little  leas  remarkable  than  Obanesr'e 
supposed  description  of  hJTurtelf  aa  "  oUe  and  nn- 
lus^  "at  flfty-tvro  f  John  of  Qaant  did  not  liT» 
to  see  his  fifty-ninth  birthday.  Is  it  not  a  £Mt 
confirmed  ij  statistics,  that  the  avenge  dnnttoo 


v^s.'vn.iiATixm.j 


KOTES  AJSm  QUEBIISS. 


41S 


cf  Sfc  i>  longer  now  tbaa  in  tho  IGddle  A^m, 
■nd  therefon  men  wen  tlien  conddered  old  «t  an 
emrlier  time  tluu  now  F  Hkbmhrtbifsb. 

Asnuning  that  Chancsr  waa  aged  nzW  in  Oct 
1S8&  u  tuggeeted  bflbLTHOiu,  it  would  follow 
tlut  li«  wu  umed  at  thirU-tluM  (60-37=33). 
Is  not  tkirtT-thiee  samewW  too  old  for  a  aquire 
to  enter  DuUtatraerrioeF  A.H. 

THE  HEHORT  0?  SHELLS. 
(4"  S.  vi.  297  ;  TiL  178.) 
Bab-Poiht  quotes  incoirectlf  irom  HaiHtt. 
That  fine  eaaayist,  in  his  delightful  disqaintion  on 
tbe  reasons  "  Whr  Distant  Obiects  Please,"  n- 
marks  that  "  aonnds,  smells,  and  sometimes  tastM 
are  remembered  longer  than  vivble  objecla,  and 
aerre  perhape  better  for  links  in  the  cbiun  of 
aMociation.'^  This  is  the  exact  opposite  of  the 
"  strange  assertion  "  that  "  it  ia  impoMdble  to 

member  nneUs."    Haditt  waa  far  too  acute 

obeerrer  of  metaphjsical  fncta  to  make  anv  ancb 
aaaertian.  The  illustrationB  he  givee  of  hia  own 
statement  are  abundantlv  amusing.  He  himself 
diatjnctlj  remembered  Ue  taste  of  barberries, 
finated  ij  a  North  American  winter,  and  eaten 
thir^  jears  before.  He  quotes  from  John  Feam'a 
■Eum  on  Omtdoutnen  how  this  strong,  solitary 
thinker  never  loat  the  memorr  of  the  smell  of  a 
baker's  shop  in  a  bj-atteet  in  tba  dtj  of  Baaatnah, 
nor  the  peculiar  flavour  of  kangaioo  eaten  in  New 
Ht^land,  and  of  some  fruit  eaten  in  Jamaica 
twenty-eight  years  previously.  Moat  self- obaarvera 
can  eorroborate  these  ezpeiienoes  of  sensalaon 
from  th^  own  personal  recollectiona.  I  onoe 
dined,  twen^  years  aince,  on  a  stew  of  paddy- 


1  smaller  species  of 
kanmoo— in  a  northern  district  of  New  SoutJi 
Walea.  Like  John  Feam,  I  can  still  recall  the 
paiticnlar  flavour  of  that  banquet  at  any  moment. 
So,  alao,  the  memory  of  my  first  naaal  aenaation 
deiivedftom  a  boiling-down  establiahment  in  thia 
countrywilleTatrem^nwithme.  Ab^ling-down 
establisbment,  I  may  ezplidn,  ia  wa  where  shaep 
are  boiled  down  for  thdr  tallow.  But  c^  all  re- 
miniscences of  smell  and  taste  commend  me  to  the 
accounts  which  travellers  give  of  th^  first  ac- 

Joaintance  with  that  eztraoidinary  fmit,  tiie 
nrian,  which  grows  ao  [Jentifally  in  the  islanda 
of  the  Indian  Archipelago.  When  fully  ripe  thia 
frnit  gives  out  ao  ovcrpowaring  stench  ■  aomethiog 
quite  indeacribable,  and  for  nanaeanding  the  two- 
aod-aeven^  aeparate  stinka  which  Coleridge  de- 
elated  he  cooBted  up  in  the  dty  of  Cologne.  Bnt 
let  the  first  disgust  ba  got  over,  and  the  Cniit  ba 
fbirly  futened  upon,  and  it  yielda  to  Uie  cotmge- 
ona  eater  a  flavour  surpaaaing  in  richness  that  of 
an  other  fruits  in  one  Inaaoua  oombinatioa.  I 
hna  heaid  these  fiuta  from  trarellata  myael^  bnt 


they  an  folly  stated  in  Wallaae's  tacaat  book  of 
timvels  in  the  Indian  Archipelago. 

One  other  peramutl  illuatratioa  I  ahall  add. 
Within  a  short  distance  of  the  place  where  I  write 
these  liB«a  atanda  the  Chinese  quarter  of  Melbourne, 
Let  an^  avenge  ienpn«ti™«n^  with  all  hia  natural 
seuaee  m  reaaamaUe  acting,  take  a  ramble  throng 
that  portion  of  our  akj,  and  I  defy  him  ever  to 
forget  the  peculiar  amdl  which  vnll  there  and 
thra  legde  hia  olbetories.  Even  Shakapeare 
could  not  imagjite  anything  in  that  line  gnng  be- 
yond "  a  most  andent  and  fighlike  smell  ;  but  the 
odour  I  am  speaking  of  beats  this  by  many  de- 
grees. Be  Quincey  would  have  deacribed  it  aa 
immemorially  old,  distinctly  Asiatic,  heterogene- 
oua,  and  unspeakable.  D.  Buhl 

MdbonrDS. 

In  opposition  to  Hazlitt  and  PBUonrs.  and  in 
agreement  with  Bar-Foutt,  I  think  it  qmte  pos- 
sible to  remember  both  smells  and  tastes.    Let 


tram  vinegar  or  musty  parchment  Will  he  not 
"say  that  it  does,  and  i^be  not  at  the  same  time 
recall  in  his  memory  the  smell  of  vinegar  or  musty 
parchment  P  Let  him  taste  a  piece  of  sugar,  ana 
Bsk  himself  whether  it  does  not  differ  m  taste 
from  salt  or  Spanish  liquorice.  Will  he  not  say 
that  it  does,  and  will  he  not  at  the  same  time 
reo^  in  his  memory  the  taste  of  salt  or  Spanish 
liquorice? 

If  he  is  asked,  after  beinff  blindfolded,  to  taste 
or  emell  aomething  of  which  the  nameis  not  told 
him — say  vinegar — will  he  not  know  by  the  ud 
of  his  memory  that  it  is  vinegar,  recollecliiiK  the 
taate  and  the  smell  of  the  vinegar  of  whidi  he 
had  experience  when  his  eyes  were  openF  By 
what  other  means  but  by  his  recollection  of  the 
ordinary  smell  and  taste  of  vinegar  can  he  know 
that  what  is  offered  to  him  is  vinegaiP 

Doee  not  Pbuoidb  confute  himself  and  Hatlitt 
when  he  says  that  the  odour  of  old  documenla 
long  laid  by  is  a  drawer  always  reminda  him  of  a 
certain  bnue-bound  mahogany  desk  of  his  P  Doea 
he  not  at  the  very  tame  compere  the  odour  of  the 
documwta  with  the  odoo^  which  he  bears  in  his 
lorv,  of  the  deek  P  Surely  he  does  not  con- 
ceive that  he  oomparea  or  aseodates  the  odour 
of  the  document*  with  the/onn  of  the  desk  P  The 
odour  of  the  documents,  I  consider,  recalls  the 
nmilar  odour  of  the  desk,  and  the  odour  of  tha 
desk  recalls  by  association  the  form  of  the  desk; 
but  the  comparison  or  association,  in  the  first  in- 
stance, ia  not  of  the  heterogeneous,  but  of  the 
bomogeneoD^  not  of  odonr  with  form,  but  of 
odoor  with  odour.  laxraa. 

I  fear  that  I  must  totally  disagree  with  Hailitt  I .-. 
and  hia  heretical  backer,  Fnueiira,  upon  thl*:, '  ^ 


J^XfTSS  AH D  QUEKIKSL 


[iMi.Tn.MiirUr'rr. 


pinnt;  for,  flHngh  ■»  doubt  cevl^  bbbDb  Mb  M- 
Bwdated  with  ceitm  Tuikk  olgarts  in  the  mawny 
ud  ioefUablr  maU  ttem,  h  bbmm  to  ve  to  be 


AwMoiit  MvitiMig 
an;  tUM  « tUig  or  pbce ;  aoi  ao,  dM,  I  laej  I 
cottU  iBMBM>w  a  awtan  paodiu  taoM  wilha«tt 
■^^reUe.    Itwwddta 

d  to  i&CpHTC^ 

Whew  did  I'n^  orirhen  did  I  feel  tUi  b^ 
foreP  What  WW  tha  object  tiut  wnah  or  ao 
fettp 

IT  it  won  otkrwiM,  I  TCBtma  ta  •nme'')  >!' 
■way  of  ea  mjwi  jjimiwit  emeM,  that  a  blind  paww 
ireohi  ban  no  memerj  for  aortbiiig'  exM^ 
Bounds.  O.  w.  BneKUL 

B  Hie  evM  and  eon  He  the  onlj  orgatu  hj 
whisli  wa  nam  aaj  power  of  nring  memoiy,  it 
foUowa  that  penoua  both  blind  ud  deaf  can  have 


night  •ocne  y«an  ago  in  Faas,  and  it  was  jntch 
daw  and  panbetlf  quiet 

Agaiaj  if  Fb^sidb  were  to  receive  a  severe 
lock  behind,  whidt,  if  adnioiatoied  adroitly,  he 
might  ndthtt  aea  nor  hear,  I  think  he  would  aO' 
kiuwledm  that "  thtongh  the  breach  "  jou  might 
"reach  &  hoan"  and  memecr  too. 

W.  M.  F. 

I  am  Rirpind  b^  the  aaMrtion  of  Pxuohtb 
that  "it  ia  impoamhle  to  remambar  anaUa." 
SnrelT  thia  ia  coutnir  to  the  esporiMOe  of  eTecv 
man,  woau%  nd  ^ild.  He  aUt,  "  th*  (mdtj 
of  memofj  cas  aal^  be  aeitami  upon  otgeda 
which  have  ba«B  seen  or  impraawoBa  made  upon 
the  organ  of  bearing."  Mne  ahrth'ng  atill.  I 
always  hitbarto  tbonght  that  memoij  raUiaei 
and  recalled  iaonHona  made  nptm  ai^  of  tba 
"fivesenaea."  Is  it  not  so P  Nor  can  I  nader- 
stand  how  "  the  oU-Worid  fragrance  "  at  the  jaw- 
treee  in  hia  gndaD  ebould  iMall  tba  DeibTshira 
examples,  but  tfaenglt  liht  "memorr  of  smella." 
At  anj  rate,  at  thia  moment  I  nmember  aa  dia- 
tinctly  the  odem  m  tha  fannt  of  the  ftnoiia  old 
yew-treaa  in  Ae  ohimAyuda  of  Bedej  and  Dariajr 
in  the  conntj  abon-oamed.  Pxuftm  mentiMS 
"mental  dtenustry,"  bnteron  tMwaia  powerian 
to  ohlitemte  from  memoty  Iha  momrBTy  of  any 
smdl  whatsnr,  D. 


8CEITA:  XCHNB'. 

(I''  8.  viL  269,  331.) 

There  ia  no  qneation  that  of  words  ori^nal^ 

belonging  in  common  to  both  Latin  and  Greek, 

those  in  the  Latin  are  of  an  <dder  fonn,  if  dif- 

feivnt,  fim  the  eqoltaluat  Qmek  mndi^  aa  o^ 


brtbe  frement  nae  of  the  old  letter^ 
1,  VfM,  asd  JBMpi,  as  in  lA^  *»»•.• 

Wi,  f«H;  *4p«*,  fXM^tW,-  rArm,  ccqmi  and   imJ^ 

luptr;  and  the  longer  tenninations  of  genitiTea 
pnml,  itamriB*  (■»),  maBVwti,-  so  mndi  oUer 
that  except  in  the  8nt  end  second  dedeasioa 


thrt  prebaUr  the  Qre^  ttemelna  wwe  va- 
aware  of  the  longer  onKinal  fonn,  it  not  oeouring 
in  any  known  hook.  With  respect  to  the  termin- 
ation of  amf-i  («mm),  Una  wnad  is  oolj  a  speci- 
men  of  a  class.  The  first  ^  is  in  the  toot,  and 
eo  oncbaiiAed;  bat  the  termination  was  always 

^jmWfcl    in  fl»nV        'Pkna    *k*  Tkn*;*    *     '  --  * 


_     ,  whoM  the 

Attic  mad  a.  I^saa  dials  rta,  aa  tie  aaaw  aaotad 
stylsa  of  agahitaefaua,  do  not  asaib  only,  or  par- 
hi^  BMiily,  the  eon^ato  bam  which  th^  took 
their  names,  hs«  the  datea  at  whiiA  Aay  pm- 
vaJM—jost,  for  inataae^  aa  we  m^  find  «  cerMia 
stjla  of  saebitaefaaa  <r  font  of  speech  ef  aa  «b- 
ti^oe  Und  Ut^arinr  loogca  in  one  pbica  thaa 
aaotheK  I  take  it  tihan  that  Uie  ■  tamunatiaB  of 
■osiM  ia  older  than  the  «,  and  so  retained  in  Ite 
Latin.  Anotiier  Undnd  exaaaple  ia  nornit, 
theftrat^andiangadjthels"--*  '---■- 


While  writing  of  tiie  aatique  torn  ef  mai^ 
^/aa  voidB  bdu^ing  doubtHes  to  Ae  otjgiaaUy 
I  laagnagee  of  the  Italian  sndGieUEim- 


iaand  lazicmi  writera  bare  aegleeted 
or  sUAed  the  anistaice  of  the  koppa  and  asMp^ 
Md  dhraeted  all  their  attentieB  to  tin  difMmw 

Thaa  Dr.  Hayauai,  in  Us  edition  irf  the  O^M^i, 
M^liea  a  dijaiwiw  at  each  hiatos.  He  fprea  for 
instaiMB  F»^  Fwai,  iriisN  tiie  omitted  Isttar  mat 
be  a  ktppa ;  e£,  iw,  fort*,  Wi,  jum,  wirrt,  ammfm, 
Ac,  and  m  &b.  I.  tine  283,  Irw  has  Af^iuM, 
w^ek  aboold  bs  iompm,  se  is  dear  if  coanand 
wiA  rintf  wimt,  and  jatmbu,  the  koppm  in  Oroot 
either  bai^ir  Mt  out  or  tamed  into  «  or  r. 

Again,  sorely  tbsrs  can  be  no  digmnmm  to  FMi 
=smd»;  the  Mter  wanted  bere^  as  in  (orSi^*^ 
•saa,  0^  ttbi,  met  be  tampi;  in  sAi  we  have 
both  mmpi  and  difomimm,  and  ^oaably  in  Mi 
(mm)  sad  Ik  These  an  CMljnecunenexaBqdeii 
There  si«  msay  others  vihan  t&t  missing  letlar  is 
carttua,  mon  still  when  there  ia  no  evidanca 
whatever  that  it  was  F  (<%>iMna).  It  would  bs 
jut  as  philoaopUcal  to  put  aaayit  or  ktppm  Is 
all  aa  tUfwimut,  thoagh  the  mislwes  tltsB  woold 
dewtnaa  be  asosa  nanarav^  t^  there  ai9  m^r 
more  imds  where  Oe  iKpaMMw  can  be  jptttaa 
to  ban  bean  onltted  than  the  ether  two  old 
laMsia.  Still  Ite  nae  of  them  in  the  nnneal 
^^Mbet,  Md  tinoridenoeof  their  facmer  edst- 
ence  in  the  eomisan  w«td^  soiA  sa  piepemtiqas 
ssid  atnaaWBa,  siwwthat  it  is  quite  ■  fikrty  «  not 
Alt  aeaaa  at  iaast  of  tha  woaia  of  ' 


4^%,Ta.MA.rtS,m.l 


1K)TES  AJSn  QUEBIE& 


I  am  obliged  to  my  two  courteona  coneapond' 
ente  for  their  hiidB  and  zopliMr  but  Hmj  hm« 
mift^en  the  drift  of  my  uquii^.  I  look  on 
Ore^  and  Latin  aa  biotfaiu!  and  aiatei  laagoag^ 
not  parent  and  child,  and  wiAed  to  traoe  their 
di^ronce  in  one  spedflc  woid  in  the  directdon  of 
thor  common  derivation.  I  euppoee  the  final  a 
nigb^  be  latent  in  Greek  wUdi  was  ezpHned  in 
l44in,  and  that  the  lattar  Bight  Bonclaaelycoii' 
form  te  a  (mj)  3»uikdt  «i^nL  Of  thia  I  did 
not  know  anonsb  to  a^  poMliTelT  whttbac  it 
>t.    Imaatstil^BohnOutMiiBgae 

spnbliDd 


CHILDEES'S  GAUES, 
(4*  S.  vii.  Ml,  2Z1.) 
It  mold  be  intereatiDg  (n^poang  it  to  be 
reillr  an  andent  rhyme)  to  trace  tbe  TMiationa 
(rf  "How  many  miles  to  BaMon  P  "  Jtj  vtrnaa 
(«.  141)  ia  the  Edinhnrgh ;  Mk.  PmrniLT'a  ia  Om 
Caroidt ;  and  now,  midway,  I  find  tha  Staflbrd,  aa 
firilowB: — 

■"  How  nuDr  mOas  to  Babylon  F ' 

*  TlirM  nan  and  twen^-«na.' 
•ahaUw«bethn«byca-"-' 

*  O  7«^  and  back  atM.' 
•Opan  yoDT  gaUa  M  wide  aa  tb*  il^ 

Aod  M  King  Qco^  and  bi>  bone  pau  by  1  "* 

U  wa  wen  to  add  to  > '  Bgun  "  ta-mE^  wa  ahoold 
have  tiuee  conaleta  itmtnaii  of  alternate  rhynaaa. 

*'  Oandlfl-light "  reminda  one  of   the  Scotch 
"Lyto  Wake"  {Border  Mimtnlfy)— 
"  Fin  and  ilwt  and  em^t^iglit.' 

Three  aeon  and  tea  ia  a  wellHkHDWB  KUaaal 
oflidier;  but  thise  aoera  and  tw^i^wm*  aeam 
^moet  scientific.  Tbemytiucal  Dnfon  g(  Ohin» 
baa  axaadythia  latter  nuaahir  of  doiiaal  aeataa  (oi 
TtftebavP) 

The  object  of  viaiting'  Babylon  and  artmmiR 
1^  veapera  iniggests  the  oaaint  tkjyugiapblial 
taiowladge  of  the  poriod  of  tae  Cwwi<Va%  aod  the 
aUniicma  in  mediffiTal  woAa  to  ^^aatv  Johai. 

By  the  way,  Mane  Polo  laeirtiaiia  that  the  two 
Maaa  who  aooompaued  Irim  into  Ann^a,  bain^ 
alavmed  at  the  rcnnt  of  tb  invaeieN  irf  tiM  3aU«a 
tit  Bab^onia,  "*"""*■*  the  ftataffitM  tt  ISwUMter 
of  the  Teraplaia  (in  that  locality),  lAo  aaceid- 
ioa^  eecoited  them  bsdt  to  A*  MMt 

xW  tnvdlot,  in  aaotker  plaaa,  daaniU^lho 
kbwAimafPnatar  John,  ana.  that  the  UwHuai 
i«MaK  (1M»-7I  F)  w«  a  deaoeB^nt  ^Aeatar 
Jobn,  waa  named  Geoage,  and  tktU  tUi  Kiw 
Oearg*  keld  bia  kiagdmnaa  a  fiel  aDdertha£baBd 


I  hare  not  aaen  the  woA  by  Ma  Ohaaaban  in 
"'"'"'"  '^'-'-  — '-"1  rhjBU  ia  naticad,  but  m^ 

\w.  '  ■■    ' 

am- Scotift  T«Hon,  w 
Uiu  it  might  be  infernd  that  "atOawgn"  wW 
the  original  text. 

Of  oooMeit  Wl  be  appaaant  that  I  aai  Maialy 
catching  at  elnw%  aaia  d»  not  by  aif  taaaos 

Snpote  to  call  this  a  Templar  rhyme,  or  eran  a 
nuader'a^  althoiu^  out  maaotuc  lB«thien  may 
'  ,  cUnble  degree^  have  approfirialed 


I  diwaapecttc 


aod^pKfied  die  ida^ 

tbeae  dcftroes,  and  I  mt^add  that  t 

dallv  with  loose  id«a»  whea  meat  a   . 

hard  to  be  oovrinead;  Htmt  itmaiog  the  Qer- 

man'a*  apophthegm,  tint  the  moat  waua  are  tinaa 

who  can  afiW  to  jeat  oa  giav*  aatneets. 

The  foUswing  ia  ftem  Boaaetaiiire,  but  Urn 
ta^n  aad  rhyme  aia  defective.  The  n|niiing  of 
the  gate  Buggeate  a  portonUia; — 

"'HoiTiiuuly-nillaa  to  Baboon  i* 

•  Elghtr-deht.' 

•  Can  w>  bM  QMr«  by 

CaadlaSiE^t?' 

•  Baldup  tb  ^ifai  ■■  high  aa  tha  aky. 

And  let  Ellng  Qtoig*  and  tba  KeyaTEHDlly  paM  by.*" 

Her^  f^n, »  maoOtn  StaflinaUifaari^me  :^ 
"  Qnan  gnvd,  gnta  gnval, 
Tba  gam  gmwa  aa  gnaa, 
And  all  pretty  maldKia 

Anflttobaaaen. 
W^  waah  tbam  In  mflk, 
And  clothe  them  in  dik, 
Aad  writa  their  aaiaea  dowa  with  «Mto  pan  and  hik." 


Th»  Pro  CoixnmDir  wFimncBt  (4**  8.  tH. 
228,  33a)— It  is  gratifying  to  think  that,  to  the 
many  Important  aerriees  rendered  to  bis  conntiT  by 
titat  ven' eminent  atotesman,  tlie  second  Sir  BcAect 
Peel,  thia  "clarom  et ' venenlnle  nomen"  can 
now  be  added  to  the  tnasnrea  of  the  National 
Odlery ;  frovermnent  hmvit^,  I  am  told,  obtuned 
for  hau  its  value,  by  derire  of  the  dowager  Lady 
Peel,  the  splendid  works  of  art  her  noble  fana- 
band's  refined  taste  bad  collected.  Amongst  than 
Babena'  celebrated,  but  miscalled,  "  CIuKpeaa  de 
Paille."  If  I  mistake  not,  it  was  ori^nallf  named 
in  FlendA  "Spanache  Hut" — the  Spamah  hat. 
I  know  that  tpimhui  meana  chip-hat,  bnt  it  is 
evidmitly  not  a  itroK-iat. 

WSkie'a  fine  pictnr^  too,  of  John  Enox.  Bat 
is  Tlu  AlhtMgwn  correct  in  stating  "John  Enoz 
Dnachinff  before  Harr  Queen  of  Scoto"P  Oug^t 
"  befon  Aa  Bqieiit  Mniray"— BUj^b 


I  am  not  sore,  bang  awny  from  n^  IkmA^ 
wheAsr  I  ever  mentimed  in  "IT.  ft  Q."  my  vint- 
ii^  Sr  David  'WBde  at  Bhnnpton  in  1831,  vriuIsT 


iin;L83I,iriiiIst 


416 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


tA*fi.TIL1UtlM,'n. 


)m  was  bo^  pHQtiDg  t^  pictnre,  uid  my  lending 
him  a  sword  of  tie  period,  whick  he  copied. 
He  h«d  in  hia  studio  a  full-length  portmt  of 
George  IV.  as  Lvge  as  life,  and  twice  as  Datnral, 
"  in  a  Scotch  Ult  and  tartans,  with  dirk  and  claj- 
mem — a  atupendoas  figure,"  says  Thackeray.  Also 
a  small  «qitwtiian  portrait  of  Qneen  Adelaide, 
whidi  WM  not  very  remarkable. 

P.  A.  L. 

Fus  OF  THx  Nbw  GmuK  Empib*  (4**  8. 
TiL  332.)— The  extract  from  Tha  Qlcbe,  copied 
into  The  Tintei  and  thenoe  transferred  by  D.  P. 
to  **N.  &  Q.,"  is,  as  he  implies,  umntelli^ble, 
and  erideotly  the  compositioii  of  one  who  i*  igno- 
rant of  the  A,  B,  0  of  heraldry. 

Mt  note  of  the  new  flag  is,  that  it  is  not  im- 
port*, but  "Paly  of  four,  or,  sa.,  go.,  and  arg." — 
but  I  neglected  to  append  a  reference  to  the  source 
from  which  my  note  was  derired. 

Of  course  there  are  no  such  things  as  sup- 
porters to  a  flag;  but  as  the  red,  white,  and  black 
tricolour  of  the  North  Oerman  ConfederatioD  was 
depict«d  in  a  abield  tierced  in  fees  on  the  seab  of 
its  consular  and  other  officials,  I  presume  that  the 
new  paly  ensign  will  be  similarly  treated,  and 
supported,  not  by  "  the  two  Indians  armed  with 
macea  of  the  Prusdan  crest"  (I),  but  by  the  usual 
saTaffes,  or  woodman,  which  perform  that  duty 
for  the  Prussian  escutcheon. 

This  is  not  the  first  time  that  I  have  heard  of 
persons,  presumably  well  educated,  calling  a  coat 
of  aims  a  "crest"  "What  a  pretty  erM<  Lord 
M.  usu,"  was  said  to  me  only  a  week  or  two  back, 
the  said  "crest"  being  a  quartered  shield  with 
coronet,  helmet,  cnet,  and  supporters — all  com- 
plete! 
*"  Mi.^ 
this  bearing  it  a  verr 

"  D  that  the  coat  of  Pauwiti,  given  in 


Wt^t^mbittA, 


is  not  an  instance  of  it. 


dOuil- 


Speners  language  (Otw*  Htraidiatm,  p. 
p.  lOO)  may  appear  a  litue  ambiguous;  and  ( 
lim's  venion,  "Parted  per  pals  and  base  gules, 
ar^t,'and  snble,"  may  be  tluught  a  fitting  tiana- 
laSon  of  "Be  gneulee  parti  d'arsent  soutenu  do 
■able  " ;  but  when  we  prefer  to  obtain  our  intor- 
niation  at  first  hand,  and  consult  the  W<mm,hidt 
itself,  we  find  that  Spener's  examples— Weitors, 
Wittom,  Votstedt,  and  Panwiti— are  exactly  in- 
stances of  the  bearing  in  question  (Siebmacher's 
Wtj^paOMch,  vol.  i.  phtes  56, 136, 146, 117,  &c.) 
Rietstap    blaxons    the    coat   of  Panwiti    thus: 

u.,  au  2desa 

cannot  accept 


"  Coupd;  au  I  parti  d's^.  et  de  gu., 

gein.''    Ag^nst  such  evidence  we  ct 
,  P.'s  statement,  "  this  is  not  mi-parii." 
German  heraldiy  is  particularly  rich 


natioDs,    Befbre  I  baoaoM  pawssaod  of  Kudolphi 


StnUdioa  Ciriota,  I  eommaneed  a  ccdlectimi  o( 
such  siaguUrities,  and  on  refbiwice  to  it  I  find  I 
have  recorded  upwards  of  thirt7  instances  at  mi- 
parti  ia  Qennany  andBwitierluid  alone. 

John  Woodwixd. 

8t  Uaiy'i  FanoDSgs,  HtatnM,  N.  B. 

D.  P.  will  find  a  correction  of  7%«  Time/  de- 
scription of  the  new  German  flag 
Talk"  Golumn  of  The  Qtmrdiim,  S 

W.J.L. 

Otrtn  V.  Uosttmion  (1*8.  TU.36S.>--I>iutuig 
the  whole  of  last  snnuner  I  was  living  in  th« 
£asex  Marshes,  in  the  nswhbonrhood  of  Victoria 
Docks,  and  for  foul  months  of  very  hot  weather 
I  was  sulyect  to  perpetual  atinc^ance  Cram  myriads 
of  insects,  which  penetrated  into  the  rooms  whoi 
doors  tad.  windows  were  closed.  The  Ute  or 
stdng  of  these  insects  was  poisonom,  and  in  many 
cases  as  serious  as  that  described  by  J.  M.  C,  and 
they  existed  in  such  numbers  that  it  was  quite 
impoamble  to  enjoy  the  cool  of  the  evening  with- 
out beii%  bit  severely.  The  people  who  hved  in 
the  marshes  said  that  theee  insects  were  mee- 
qttitoet,  that  a  few  came  over  in  the  ships  among 
the  goods,  and  that  when  the  ships  were  unladen 
these  came  out,  and  bred  in  the  marshes;  this 
was  confirmed  to  my  knowledge  by  several  sea- 
captains,  who  said  that  the  insects  were  the  same 
as  the  mosquitoes  in  the  East,  but  much  smaller. 
I  should  lute  to  know  whether  mosquiloea  are 
known  to  breed  in  this  country,  as  I  was  told  that 
the  same  insects  were  seen  in  and  about  South- 
ampton. I  was  not  so  fortunate  na  J.  M.  C., 
for  Dy  no  means  that  I  could  devise  wbs  I  able  to 
protect  my  skin  from  these  little  maraudera. 

W.  G.  D, 

The  wound  inflicted  by  the  gnat  is  rather  a 
sting  than  a  bite,  as  the  insect  is  seen  to  insert 
a  long  sting  from  its  month,  which  appears  to 
convey  a  poison  nmilarto  that  of  a  wasp  at  a  bee. 
It  may  be  useful  to  persons  exposed  to  these  an- 
noying insects,  to  be  mfomied  ot  an  effeetnal  pre- 
servative from  them  at  night.  When  traveUing 
--  Germatiy,  between  fifty  and  oxty  yean  ago, 
bedroom  at  an  inn  overlodied  a  stable  ytra. 
g  arose  too  numerous  and 
formidable  from  this  damp  yard  to  allow  any  hope 
of  rest  or  security  from  punctures.  When  I 
complained  of  tliie  terrible  nuisance,  the  wsiter 
assured  me  that  he  could  very  soon  remedy  the 
evil.  He  brought  up  a  chafing  dish  full  of  small 
chips  of  juniper  wood,  and  t^  me  to  set  fire  ti> 
this  wood,  the  chafing  dish  bdng  placed  in  the 
middle  of  the  room,  and  go  to  bed  immediately  in 
the  smoke.  I  did  so.  and  the  room  was  sora  Ulai 
with  smoke,  bat  oi  a  pleasant  aromatic  smell, 
which  was  reaUy  agreeable.  This  waa  fttal  to 
the  gnata:  thav  issued  out  from  the  cnrtains  and 
every  part  of  the  room,  hnnying  to  the  wiadoiM 


Then 


4»&TII.Mat1B,'71.1 


NOTES  AKD  QITEBIES. 


to  etcape  RifibcfttiaD.  These  b«ia{r  at  fint  doted 
were  quickly  covered  all  over  with  gtMo.  Haaj 
were  glad  to  make  their  escape  when  I  opened 
the  windows,  and  the  reat  fell  dead  or  helpless; 
•o  that  I  had  a  quiet  comfortable  nighL  The 
smoke  of  jumper  wood  appears  to  destroy  gnats 
Tery  speedily,  F,  0.  H. 

Rb7.  Thomu  Bbooeb  (i^  B.  Tii.  342.)  — Uy 
memoir,  coutamin^  all  that  baa  come  down  rela- 
tive  to  this  illuatnous  and  venerable  Puritan,  will 
be  found  in  my  coUecdve  edition  <tf  his  complete 
works  (d  tola.  8vo),  published  in  Nichols's  FuriloH 
JHemu,  and  I  ahould  suppose  readily  accessible 
in  Philadelphia  to  your  correapondenL 

A.B.  Gbmaxi; 
St.  Q«orgg's,  Bbckbon. 

Ubb.  Mabt  Ohdbobill,  1676  (4">  S.  vii.  234.) 
I  am  afraid  I  csn  only  help  Mb.  C.  W.  Bmosut 
further  into  the  dilemma  b^  stating  that  some 
time  ago  I  was  rooting  ap  this  subject,  and  jotted 
down  (authority  unnoted)  tbat  ber  maiden  name 
was  "Alien,"  and  that  she  died  "area  1676," 
which  is  within  about  eighteen  months  of  the 
time  as  given  in  register  as  quoted  by  Mk.  Bnro- 
HAM.  1  cannot  ^ve  the  date  of  deatii  or  place  of 
buiial  of  Sarab,  nit  Winstan,  hot  as  to  the  latter, 
beg  to  suggest  Wootttm  Olanvil  as  likely;  or  as 
her  son,  Sir  Winstan  Churchill,  died  March  28, 
1688,  and  was  interred  at  St  Martdn's-in-the- 
■  "e  that  her  10- 
Mbloombb. 
"Th¥  Hob  nr  thb  Wbll"  (4*  S.  vii.  201, 
220,  SIO.>- 1  notice  is  Sotheraa's  Catalogue,  Feb. 
1871:  — 

"HoBintbeWm.!.;  or  Iha  Oturdiui  Oatwltted.  A 
PoeiD,  HumoRnu  and  MoraL  FUtaa,  thin  12mo.  (From 
tba  Hd>et  CollrctloD.)    1769." 

Is  this  the  "old  farce"  referred  to  by  G. 
WnxLOCEp  Tbos.  Stzwabdsof,  JuF. 

LiiroAsamE  Witchw  (4»  S.  vii.  287, 811.)— 
"Lancaahire  witches"  and  "Cheshire  cats"  are 
the  only  county  sobriquets  for  ladiea  tbat  I  know 
ot,  and  certainly  the  Cbathire  ladies  are  not 
toasted  as  cats.  I  do  not  agree  with  Mb.  Rat- 
OUFn,  for  I  think  the  ladies  of  other  coontiM 
would  be  as  likely  to  take  offence  if  given  at  a 
puUio  dinner  as  "The  Suffolk  witches,"  "The 
Devoosbire  witches,"  as  "  The  Lancashire  witches" 
would  be  if  toastMl  under  any  other  than  that 
prescribed  form.  Fancy  the  disgust  of  the  Lan- 
caebire  &ir  ones,  if  aome  ignorant  •ttangn  ware 
to  propose  "The  ladies  I"  P.P. 

LxTTEB  OT  Edwasd  IV.  (4<^  &  viL  239, 312.) 
Z  am  glad  that  my  paper  has  elicited  ftutber  cri- 
ticism of  the  language  of  this  document,  thus 
affording  additional  ailments  why  the  original 
•hould  be  submitted  to  infection.  I  may,  hoW' 
ever,  veature  to  state  tbat  I  see  d  "  * 


Fields,  London,  it  is  just  j^obable  t 
muns  rest  there  also.  I 


e  nothing  yet  dis- 


tinctly incompatible  with  the  snppomlioii  that  it 
is  authentic.  As  to  the  form  "  R^a  Majestoa," 
I  know  it  has  been  said  that  the  tenn  "  Majes^" 
was  not  applied  to  any  King  of  England  oefore 
Heni^  VIII.  This  may  be  true  aa  regards  Qie 
English  word ;  but  Henry  VII.  was  addressed  as 
"  Sacra  Kegia  Majestas  "  by  Cardinal  Hadrian  de 
Castello,"  and  as  "  Majestas  Vestra  "  by  two  other 
cardinals.  (See  my  Letters  of  Bichard  III.  and 
Hatry  VIZ,  I  103,  100" ;  ii.  112.)  I  suspect  the 
expression  wss  first  used  by  Italian  diplomatists 
on  the  revival  of  letters;  and  if  so,  it  was  not  un- 
likely to  have  been  employed  by  an  Italian  secre- 
tary, who  may  possibly  have  come  to  England 
alonff  with  the  legate  CopinnL  The  letter  cer- 
tain^ is  in  an  Italian  band.  As  to  the  style  of 
the  Dukes  of  Milan,  I  have  referred  to  the  work 
mentioned  by  Tewabs,  but  it  does  not  come  dovm 
far  enpogh  to  decide  the  question. 

Jambs  aAjBDKSR, 

Claw  MoAunr  f4*  S.  vu.  ISO,  290.)— The 
replies  of  Mao.  and  W.  WnrrEBs,  Waltham  Ab- 
bey, confirm  the  statement  I  made  in  making 
inquiries  concerning  the  existence  and  origin  ^ 
this  elan ;  namely,  that  all  that  relates  to  them 
is  of  very  vague  and  uncertain  character.  Mas., 
fi>r  example,  says :  — 

"  Tba  daacaadant* of  EinKAlpin  are ieppoaed  te  have 
Ibnned  tbe  clsii  Alpin.  .  .  .  The  Hacalpliis  oT  ths  pitsiDt 
day  I  believe  to  be  dcacMdsd  fixnt  HacgngorB,  and  t«  have 
usooMd  the  nama  when  thai  of  Hacmm  wBi  pioseribal. 
,  .  .  Who,  kaoiriDa  the  biMary  itf  tin^lgfalaodi  sad  tte 
cUdi,'  and  w  bita,  ''  vonld  expect  to  flod  .  .  .  niDnl> 
meoti  sMablblilng  the  descent  of  the  varioo*  ohlvb  from 
Kfoaetb  UaealiHU  ?  " 

It  will  be  seen  that  supposition,  individual 
belief  founded  on  no  dted  authoritf,  uid  an  ad- 
mission of  the  un»as<mableiiess  of  looking  fbr 
documentary  evidence,  are  freely  avowed  l^Uas. 
to  exist  in  oonnectitNi  with  this  subject.  Thna 
tendered  more 
Jie  qoery  was 
raised. 

Mb.  WnnxBS  has  tny  thanks  Cor  referring  me 
to  the  Sartmoffe  ofSooOaKd;  butitirill  be  seen 
that,  in  the  note  to  CfoM-aMi's  Vow,  the  belief 
of  Mao.  therein  reouves  a  diiect  contradiction ; 
for,  while  he  sappoeee  tbe  Macalpins  to  have 
formerly  bem  of  Matgregoie,  and  to  have  assumed 
the  name  when  tiiat  at  Haegi^;oi  was  proserihed, 
BoeweU'a  note  telle  ns  that  the  genealogist  of  the 
Biacalpins  and  Maogregoia  in  the  Batamu*  of 
BooUoHd  statea  tbat  those  vriio  had  astuned  tlie 
name  of  MawljJn  adopted  the  name  of  tbe  Mac- 
gregors^  in  order  to  propitiate  the  aid  of  a 
mora  powerful  than  toeir  own,  and  thus  lost 


br^  then,  the  inqniiy  has  not  been  tend 
saOsfactoiy  than  it  was  wfaan  the  c 


ciea  I  do  Dot  make  the  attempt;  but  I  again  adi—  i 
Is  there  anything  more  than  a  veir  "  foggy  "  kind  { 
<rf-eTideaoe  in  ntpport  of  the  idea  tlut  sscb  n 


NOTES  AJSB  QIJIBIBB. 


[«>fcTiLiiATtt,<n. 


inif  M  tiw  cUo  Htcalpm,  mdi  a  Im  (rf  cUrf- 
taoH  M  tkae  of  &e  elui,  and  a  perauMot  place 
■f|ioridoiicitothiem,»vM  — -■-   " 

Crnnrom  (4*  S.  -ni.  »S,  Ml,  SSa)— Tohase 
BHDlioiu  the  al^jfwn .-— ~ 

*  HadcmcdMill^  so  Eil*ut  fMds  mb^ 
If*  daigne  pn  nder  k  I>  cabbw ; 
nig  M  sire,  ^nU  ■«  oti^iHiL'* 

nie  primaiy  mefnung  of  the  word  is,  of  coniM, 
*  nape  of  the  neck."  Bat  what  is  the  etjradogj  f 
Iiraaat  first  disposed  to  derive  it  from  im*,  '■back 
of  the  head,"  "a&pe  of  die  neck"  (a^wt.  S.  A., 
1  7,  2),  inth  a  loefixed  mlnluit  (am—tmi«n, 
emoB,  e^ignon),  H^DBge  gives  "lAifntm  Ai  cou, 
da  cafou ,-  caUaa,  aOenum,  oaUna,  aatsiomi, 
duagiton,  ddgrum :  duignon  poor  chignon  ee  bouve 
dana  Nicot,  et  dans  la  Ballade  de  Villon,  dana 
Iac|nelle  TillMi  one  nerd  k  tout  le  monde." 
Tf^tuHMB  uyB,  "  da  mot  Fran^ais,  chalne,  on  a  fiut 
.' 1«  dsiziire  da  coo. 
.iMkache- 
TMix  riteonwSi  %\a.  conviaient  leur  ohigmm" ; 
and  Boqnafort  givea,  "  ohugne,  dkiwHOM,  titamf 
mm:  U  ohignon  dn  col,  de  tmtmta."  lAtUi  aaya  of 
^etjnol^,  "la  mkae  que  oAobum,  par otnu- 
psiaiam  an  cttalnon  d'nne  chalna  av«c  U»  uodo- 
nt^ta  dea  Tettihnsj  Benj,  eo^ftton,  ehagnon." 

R.  S.  Chabro(X> 

On j>l  Inn  Sqnirs. 

F.fi.  ^Hie  ivord,  iq  Tta  pmuftiTO 


a  tiie  thirteenth  eentnrf  cormpted  down 
and  oAdon;  in  1G99  (J.de  Heung,  Tatl.) 
it  ia  written  cAoa^non,  and  sumequeiitlj  CM^fMON, 
'    '  men. 

»  (^  S.  X.  la,  ac-V-I 

baTa  not  Tetieaa  anything  nnlher  on  thiatnl^aei. 

Ipoaaeas  abookoaotaiiiiBff«iglit7-MTO,thaad- 
ditirai^  COM  bcHig  Mn  H.  Maoatana  in  nmaar 
lb  TaHmr  aid  the  Amatonr  of  Faahioa  in  tfae 
character  of  Lothario  (Bcoibo  Ooates,  tl>a  Oookj 
Coates  of  his  daj.) 

I  haro  a  looae  No.  36,  the  "  Lad7  of  tile  Lde,' 
digh^  Taxied  in  the  detnla.  All  my  «ario» 
tuna,  01  nduc  t^araetsre,  am  eolonred.  Tha 
dan^teta  mtetook  thia  dapartmast,  and  I  have 
often  aroMe4  mjatU  br  h^ing  tbaiB.  The 
"  Mad  ink  anhsoiiptraB''  wen  naanllj  written 
tj  (m»  at "  Dighten  tin  yotatgvft"  riatan. 

I  give  aome  infonBation  wantipg  inHE.  Waoit's 
Btaahaai. 

No.  aOi  The  DdIm  of  Qneenaheirr- 

No.  40.  Hm  Dohe  (rfBankinghMn. 

No.  71.  Loid  FiteoT  Somanet 

No.  78.  Brooke  Watooa,  who  had  hie  IwUttHi 
off  by  «  ahari^  whan  he  in  lua  cbb«w  rf  pditamw 
widied  to  give  {BWadnoe  to  (Im  caaatnae  in  Ha 


wapoodenla.  U.  S.,  inquins  at  thia  referanoe  for 
the  name  of  the  author  of  thia  pamphlet  uainrt 
Dean  Swift    Although  many  years  have  e^wd 


Ne.  Sa  TowiMend,  the  Bow  Btvet  Bammt. 


Hem.  4B.  Ti»  VOA  T.  al  W.  Bagt  «4aBt 

Then  waa  two  Di^fcmai  aay,  than  were 
tan. 

Db.  DoEjiv  etn  in  (he  i|wlling  of  Ihe  nan*: 
1  waa  alwaja  mtbont  tbe«;  mm  ooe  who  ooold 
kcben  the  "  t"  of  another  woald  taaotij  haai- 
tate  to  ^iply  anything  but  a  deteraent  to  his 
chanctet.  Cmrtcanj^ 

Bi»a  SumnHiB :  Omoir^  "  I^ouvx  ivi> 
Fail "  (tf*  a  v&  Stt,  S73, 380.)— &te.  Tbv  aays 
tbt  hia  «aHla«ii  or  GWhon,  leiS,  haa  "  an  h«idT«d 
weU  diadriinad  aoltfen.''  I  find  tba  edition  t^ 
1817  ha*  the  Base,  hrt  I  have  lately  net  with 
the  editiaa  of  %  A.  &  H.  Oddy,  Oxford  Street,  1809, 
oronly  fifteen  years  after  hia  death  ;  it  m^  "  am 
h«ndnd  ^oownd."  Uoweve^  fiom  tlu  yara- 
gr^  whioh  I  gave  at  length,  the  maaaiag  ia  ao 
obviow  tiiat  I  an  anrpriaaa  that  ao  aeate  a  critic 
as  Ujl  Tnr  Aonld  not  hare  aeen  the  omiasioi)  of 
tiie  printer.  CUBSZ. 

Easa.TS  Divin  Uokaz,  um  Pourccu.,  1714 : 
Dun  Swm  (2^  a  v.  27.)— One  of  your  c  " 

'  -  ■-  "  "    '       '  IS  at  thia  referanoe 

f  thia  pamphlet  uainrt 
^  oany  yea 
query  wai  printed,  some  one  may  care 
tor  an  anawer  to  the  effect  that  there  can  haidly 
be  a  doubt  of  this  tzact  having  been  writtm  by 
Thomaa  Bnmet,  Km  of  the  In^op,  who  was  liko- 
wiae  author  of  the  Seeomd  Tak  of  a  TiA. 

A  copy  of  tiie  E»tcnf»  m  the  Idbra^  of  the 
Britiak  Hnaenm  (1S900.  C.)  has  the  Cdlowmg 
memoiandnm  in  manoacript  of  ^t  period  of  pub- 
lication, and  ob  the  title-page: — 

"  A  man  Satire  m  Dean  Son  and  hU  Writings,  par- 
ticolul;  the  Tale  of  •  Tab.  Ptobablv  by  Bp.  BsnuM^s 
■in,  Tha.  B.  Eur." 

F.Q.5 
OKkVimit  "  0<i&-F«**  AMS  "  Qu 
(4<^  a  IT.  1»8.)— Wi&  TegMd  to  the  fint,  oom- 
peaa  «  o<M  nad  »  (OmnVs  1- «31  and  7«».) 

With  regard  to  tlie  aeeaad,  M.R.  saya,  "Urn 
tarn  (fog-toelhtd)  seems  to  hare  bean  applied 
only  to  wonen."  Haaa  ia  ssi  inatanoe  to  tM  oon- 
tn»y:- 

•>  WIU  tint  Aa  bent  her  bnwn,  and  tika  a  Vaiy  of 
bdl  bwan  ta  Ue  at  Urn,  nylnc,  •  Whv  yot  Mf^Mth 
Jacks  [^ftc"-Tlu>ni-a  £b4  A«lw4  >«»■  AiiaMiit, 
i.108. 

Cuthbvt  of  g«nil«.ll,  the  nan  t 
notorioDaly  a  lecher.  Joxk  A 

9  Cwut^aom-A  B  C  (4*  S.  vi.  867.)— An 
niustnted  psper  on  "  Grisa-Orois  "  by  Mr.  F.  C. 
Lakia,  F.8A.,  is  in  tJie  iiaKfuary  for  Oct  1870. 
Mb.  LanxAK  querie*  Jow,  and  iBDuires  if  it  is 
not  Odtie.    I  l&inh  not.    I%e  Kestieh  eqaiTsUBt 


.i^^wa.iuxit.'ii.-] 


KOTES  Aim  QUEfiZES. 


1U,  tiw  «l]kluil>et 

Latd)  pRonsB  (41'  8.  yu.  56.)— 

"Tdunentarqiioadaca  boDdnti,  et  ne  mtxkiM,  qnt  te 
■t  nuzinie  debiuniiit,  et  plurimDin  jonra  pobwront, 
liiTiduBe  dignftAtl  true :  afmllliiEUDDqat  to  n  dinlmili 

ut,  qnaa  tn  nipablics  cauai  Inamu, 
narent.  qnornm  loctoriUMiD,  digi ' 


C.P.L 

BuiTTT  Sixxp  (4*  S.  yii.  143.)— Tlih  ii  & 

Tcij  ccmimoD  term  in  Scotland,  where  also  I  ttara 

baud  it  said  verf  often  that  "  The  tiro  hours 

before  midnight  are  worth  all  thftt  come  nftet  it" 

Edwasd  Bii(BA.in,i  Duma, 

ElTEHin  OF  THK  MoviHS  (4<k  S.  viL  US.)— I 
fonmd  to  joa  the  f<dlow]ng  titles  of  the  mnittia 
talun  from  m^  copy  of — 

"Tire  Hmdnd  FoiDta  of  good   Hmbukhy  seiriv 
MtlborthbyThomaaTaMer,  QraitlaauL  Landai^  UIO.^' 
-A  klDdljgood  JuliMn 

Fnsitb  pot  by  tha  feei^ 

Febraary  fill  tba  dike 

With  irhat  tboa  doM  Uka. 

March  doat  to  be  uld. 

Worth  raniom  of  gold. 

Sweat  April  ahowara 

Do  spriog  May  flowen. 

Cold  M>v  and  windy. 

Bane  fllleth  Tp  flinly, 

Calme  waathar  in  Jnne 

Corne  lats  In  tane. 

No  (empeit,  good  Itiv, 

Least  oonia  looks  maly. 

Dria  Aagnat  and  wanm 

Doth  hniurtno  harnn. 

September  blow  aoft 

TIB  thut  be  fai  loft. 

October  good  blaat 

To  blow  the  bog  mait. 

lT0T«mb(9  take  flafle, 


I  hkre  freqaeotly  heu^  thoaa  ibrdie  fiiet  dglit 
moDthe,  with  but  little  variation,  from  agriool- 
tnnl  labonreTH  on  the  east  coaat  of  lincomehire. 
«nd  occsaiondly  tjiat  for  Norember.  The  won 
dctp  ie  in  eontrtant  me  for  a  peck  mearan. 

Rhymes  for  the  first  seven  months  are  also 
quoted  in  the  Step/ieri  of  Bmihwy't  Rutm  to 
Aabe  uf  th«  Wmmer,  by  J.  Olaridge  (London, 
1748),  and  nm  aa  fbUtnra:— 
"  JaniTBT  freeze  the  pot  by  tha  Ore, 

If  tiie  grasa  grow  in  Janlrear, 

It  growa  the  wona  for^  bH  the  ^ear. 

The  Welchman  'ad  ratbar  na  hia  dam  on  tha  beir  ' 

^un  to  we  ■  fUr  Pebmeer. 

'Knob  vhH]  and  May  nu 

Mahw  okthaa  white  and  tnaidt  don. 


When  April  Uowa  hli  honi, 

It's  good  both  for  hay  and  corn. 

Ad  April  flood 

Canrlaa  away  the  frog  and  her  brood. 

A  cold  May  and  a  windy 

Makea  a  bll  bam  axi  a  6Diy(t) 

A  Hay  flood 

Styti  did  BMd. 

A  swum  olbN*  in  Hay 

la  woctb  a  load  of  bav. 

Bat  a  nrann  in  3u\j 

D  not  wrath  a  fly." 

'R.TCHusiXT. 
Qnean's  College,  Qzfbid. 

Voii.QXiiB  FiasoiTH :  Pibbob  Post  (4"  B.  vii. 
186,  S84,  2910 — Looking  over  some  did  anmbers 
of  the  Sevue  britanaimu,  1  find  with  regard  to 
these  (vol  x.  eerie  7,  A'  1862)— 

"De  torn  lea  £tiea  de  la  crMJon  11  «n  leqoatri^e 
Domm  j  dans  la  Geaiee,  qui  en  &U  mention  emt  la  fin 
daDduge. 

"No^envoyanna  Colombo  ■eptionis  apiia  la  eorbaan, 
ponr  voir  ei  lea  eanx  aviient  cesse  da  convTir  la  terre. 
"  Mais  la  oolombe  D'ayant  pD  tMUTCi  oh  mettn  lepled,. 

Sarceqne  la  ttne  Aait  lent*  oenntte  dkaa,  tUlo  nvint 
lui. 

"  II  attendit  eneon  lept  jotm  et  il  anvoya,  d«  nonyean, 
la  Colombo  hurs  da  rarcbe. 

••EUe  nrint  k  Ini  la  aoir.  portant  data  eon  boo  on 
ramaau  d'olirier  dont  Ice  fenillea  ^talent  tontsa  veitea. 

"Cette  eolombe  ^fadt  probablement  1e  pigeon  blea  dea 
rocbes — notie  biaet^aauvage.  Qnal  qnll  an  aolt,  lea  Arabea 


BDde.  'La  premiiie  fbla,' 


TCtb^ea  dedaaaoB  ta 


deHotinne 
mt-ila,  *la 
d'oUrier, 


I ;  et  |KIU  lappeler  oat  ^vtaament, 

--"rqne  lea  pieds  de  ceaoiseanx 

longe  qnl  lea  diatiogne  encore 

d'hoL'  L'analogie  dea  mota  bAtrenx  adaSm,  nnige, 

' iveo  Aim,  Adam,  eat  nmarqnable ;  notre 

dit  anaai  en  tnic  a'dam." 


Teller,  it  seems  pretty  evident  that  liie  facul^  they 
have  of  retnnung  home  could  not  be  "  by  land- 
mark,"  aa  the  whole  land  wae  under  vrater ;  nor 
"  bj  the  stnm,"  as  the  sky  onlj  cleared  up  with 
the  rainbow  when  "No^wasout  of  the  axk":  it 
must  then  have  been  "by  instdnct,"  like  the  bird 
Mr.  R  W.  Allsridse  mentions,  which  returned, 
when  <mly  nine  weeks  old,  fonn  ft  distance  of 
seventy  miles.  P.  A.  L. 

Abbuthvot  " :  "  BmEETBW  "  t  how  peo- 
rsom  P  (4<^  S.  Til  342.)— I  oDoe  knew  •  lady, 
OOB  of  the  dkughtara  of  Gnihw  of  ICo^hie,  who, 
as  it  80  ha^ened,  was  the  mattniMil  Hnt  of  dis- 
count ArbathnoL  This  bdy  pteKotmoed  tiie 
name  Aibuthnot  with  the  aoasot  on  tbe  ttetmd 
syllable.  She  was  a  woman  <A  good  eduoatum, 
somewhat  of  the  best,  and  her  hnahasd  had  been 
«  man  ef  letters.  I  have  never  beaid  this  name 
fEwnonoed  otherwiee.  "Biren"  tea  Bntfaven 
n  ft  ootmnticFDal  departnre  or  &Bbianri>le  (mmC 
mpam  tat  ariueh  it  is  diffiewlt  to  acooBnt,  jart 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[ti^B-TII.  May  18,11. 


as  tbe  EngUeh  name  Theobald  is  spoken  Tibbald, 
and  the  Scotch  name  Majoribanka  called  Manh- 
hankt.  3.  Ck.  K. 

Temple. 

In  Scotland  thia  name  is  anifotmly  proDoiuoad 
with  the  accent  on  the  second  syllable.  I  have 
no  doubt  that  Dr.  Aibuthnot  himself,  a  native  ot 
Arbntbnot  pariah  in  Eincardioesbire,  who  did  not 
leave  Scotliuid  until  aftet  t&king  bis  medical  d»- 
gree  at  Aberdeen,  so  pronounced  it.  Nor  is  it 
bT  anj  means  evident  that  bis  English  friends 
adopted  a  different  ose.  It  is  true  that  tbe  accent 
is  otbermae  ^aced  in  the  line  qnoUd  by  Jitpbb 
from  I^)pe's  Epistle^ 

*■  To  Moond,  A  r'Inithiiat,  thf  art  sad  oua  " ; 
but,  OD  tbe  otbet  hand,  we  have  tbe  same  poet,  in. 
bia  Farew^  to  London,  thus  writing — 
"Fuewell,  Atbnth'DDt'i  rullaij 
On  evei7  leirasd  *ot  I  " 
ICa  other  friend,  tbe  Dean  of  St  Patrick'^  in  his 
poem  On  the  Death  of  Dr.  Swift,  writ«a— 
■  Poor  Pope  win  grieve  a  month,  and  G*7 
A  ireek,  and  ArlmChnot  a  day  " ; 
yet  tbe  same  piece  contains  the  couplet  — 
"  Arbath'not  la  no  mora  ntj  friend. 
Who  dsree  to  irony  preUod"; 
and  in  Swift's  much  earliei  verses  Writtat  m  Sitk- 
nat  are  the  linee — 


Tbe  prologue  to  Th»  Shtptur^t  Wtek  bj  Qaj 
gives  anotbei  instance— 

"  Thia  leach  Arbath'not  wai  yclept," 

followed  a  fbw  lines  further  on  by — 

"111  hie  with  glee 

To  CMTt,  thia  Ar'bnthQot  to  aes." 

The  above  quotations    go  far  to  prove  that, 

when  tbe  rhythm  did  not  require  a  transference 

of  tbe  accent,  tbe  three  Eriends  of  tbe  learned  and 

witty  Scotch  phyncian  retained  it  in  what  I  must 

call  its  proper  place.    Tbe  great  probability  is 

that  by  them,  as  well  as  by  biinseu  and  bis  coun- 

brymen,  the  genial  Doctor,  as  Gay  has  it,  "  Ar- 

bttlh'not  was  yclept"  Nobvil  Cltxb. 

fidnff  a  native  of  the  city  of  Aberdeen,  which 
is  not  far  distant  from  the  ancestral  seat  of  the 
noble  family  of  the  Arbnthnota,  I  bad  fiequent 
occasion  to  hear  tbe  name  pronounced,  but  alvrays 
-with  the  accent  on  tbs  tecoKd  syllable.  Whether 
this  is  the  correct  pronunciation  or  not  I  cannot 
pretend  to  say.  J.  Maohat. 

8tow-oh-th>-Wou>  (4'*  a  viL  844j — Stow- 
on-tbe-Wold  was  in  the  diocese  of  Woroeatar 
before  tbe  Befbrma^rai.  Alicia  Flonre  of  Stow 
S.  Edward's  (Ear  that  is  tbe  town's  auneiit  name), 


bequeathed  to  tbe  "  mother  church  of  Worcester 
i*  "  by  her  will,  a.d.  1878.  Datid  Rowc 
KeUwrawdl  Vicarage,  Stow-w-Wtdd. 

Sm  JoHM  Masou  (4'>  S.-vii.  366.)— t  sbsU  be 
sincerely  obliged  if  P.  M.  will  communicate  with 
me  in  refeieoce  to  Sii  John  Mason  and  his  de- 
acendanta.  Sakiisl  Tdokbk. 

FoTtii  QiMD,  Fincbley,  N. 

Old  Faxujxs  without  Coat  Abmoub  (4*  8. 
viL  344.)— As  a  herald  of  long  standing— having 
studied  that  which  has  been  bitterly  but  rightly 
termed  the  "science  of  fools  with  long  memories  ' 
for  more  than  twen^  years — 1  think  I  may  ven- 
ture to  answer  P.'s  query  in  tbe  affirmative.  No 
doubt  there  are  many  old  families  without  coat 
armour.  What  would  such  esquires  as  Sqniro 
Western  care  for  heraldry  P  The  way  in  Wbich 
coat  armour  was  asugned,  it  must  M  remem- 
bered, was  by  the  heralds  in  their  viaitationL 
when  each  gentleman  of  a  very  small  freehold 
estate  was  summoned  aiul  mads  to  pay  for  tbe 
proper  entry  of  bis  anus  and  crest  or  bis  ooat 
armour  only.  But  oftentimes  the  heads  of  fami- 
lies, to  use  a  slang  ezpiesson,  "squared"  tbe 
matter  with  tbe  heralds,  and  conveyed  themselves 
away,  not  beinK  willing  to  have  bononr  thus  thrast 
upon  themTnor  was  it  alone  as  regards  the 
bearing  of  coat  arms  that  the  retiring  nature  of 
Engli^men  was  shown.  If  P.  vrill  refer  to  tbe 
first  pages  of  Evelyn's  Memoiri  he  will  find  that 
gentleman's  fatiwr,  paying  a  fine  ratber  than  be 
made  a  knight 

-  Saoeaved  the  29  Oct  16S0,  of  Rich'  Gvlioge  of  Wol- 
toDC  In  tbe  ooontye  of  Son'  Eaq.  by  way  of  compode'one 
(a  tke  u*  of  Mi  Ua^  bdug  appl'  by  hU  IL  coUeotor  tbr 
the  iaml^  ror  bla  Fine  for  not  appeaHnge  at  tbs  time  and 
place  spoyntad  tat  reMavinge  order  of  knighthood,  the 
somme  of  Svetv  poond.    I  say  receaved, 

•'  Tho.  CancBa." 
And  surely  a  reader  of  "N.  ft  Q."  needs  not  to  be 
told  that  m  tbe  days  of  Eliiabetb,  and  aspedaUy 
of  James  L  and  Cbarlea  I.,  "kni^ta"  vran  not 
thought  much  of— dried  applw  vete  caQed 
"  wiuered  Sir  Johns."  Hononr  was  vended  very 
^eaply,  and  King  James's  notion  of  making 
monev  by  a  batch  of  baronets  waa  no  new  idea, 
only  ne  held  out  the  bait  and  added  novelty  to  it 
Before  bis  time  gentleman  wete  called  up  to  be 
honoured,  and  fltied  heavily  if  they  did  not  sub- 
mit to  be  honoured.  P.  ma^  rest  nsBored  that 
there  are  maay  very  old  families  not  possesrang 
coat  armour,  unless  that  which  tbdr  amintioaa 
dsacendants  have  had  asnaned  to  them  by  Heasrs. 
Stamp,  IKe,  Blaion,  &  Co.,  the  eminent  adrei- 
tinng  "  heraldic  artists."  Hahi  Fsiawnx. 

Qrsst  Bmssll  Street,  Blooaubniy  Sqaarc. 


4^8.  Til.  Mat  18,  Tl.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Sahteb'  Emslxhs  (4<»  S.  tu.  SOG.)— I  think  if 
resden  of  "  N.  &  Q."  had  each  ft  copr  of  Dr.  F. 
C.  Hnaenbetb'a  Embhmt  of  Satnli,  published  by 
LongmiuiB  &  Co.,  price  five  shiUiD^,  thej  would 
tbera  vetj  ofUa  find  the  informstiou  MUght'for 
in  these  pagee.  According  to  the  author  of  this 
rorkSS.  r*^  '"  "  *' 
have  for  tl 

Thx  Nile  utd  the  Bibli  (4<^  S.  tu.  186, 314.) 
Under  thia  beading  there  are  wnue  referencea  to 
a  pasaage  in  Ecclee.  xi.  1  — 

"  Cut  Ihy  bnad  npoQ  tba  «at«n>  Git  tbon  ahalt  find 
it  alUr  many  daya," — 

the  drift  of  which  I  cannot  with  any  certainty 
make  ou^  in  conBequence  of  the  writer  not  htiTing 
translatea  Ihe  Oreeti  and  Latin  qnotatioDs.  What 
I  wiah  to  direct  att«ntioa  to,  is  the  variety  in  the 
truulalipn  of  the  above  and  some  other  passage* 
from  the  Hebrew.    In  a  venion  now  before  me — 

"  Tba  Holy  Bibia with  Twenty  TboowDd  Emen- 

ditioDa."  London :  Longnuuu,  Brown,  It  Co.,  1B49,* — 
the  Terse  in  qnestion  ia  thus  pTOn :  — 

"  Cast  thy  bmd-con  qpon  tbs  waUnd  gnond,  aad 
thou  (halt  find  It  afUr  many  day*." 
In  the  Doum/  Vertion  (London :  Sinuna  and  M'ln- 
tyre,  1847)  it  runs— 

"Cast  thv.braid  npon  the  mnning  watars;  for  after  a 
long  time  thou  ibalt  find  ft  again." 
There  is  perhaps  not  much  diaaimilaritv  in  mean- 
ing here,  although  one  might  well  desire  to  have 
a  more  exact  agreement  in  translation.  But  what 
is  an  ordinary  reader  to  make  of  the  foUowingP 

JobT.7:  — 

"  Tat  man  la  bom  nnte  tronbia,  aa  tbe  apaifca  fly 
upward." — G/mmmi  Vernon. 

"  For  man  la  not  bora  to  tronU^  aa  the  iparka  By 
Dpwcrds."— FcrnuB  IMS. 

"  Han  i«  boin  to  Ubonr,  and  tbe  Urd  to  fly." — Dtmof 
rarma. 

JobTJ.  6-7:  — 

"  Can  that  which  ii  nnuvoacy  be  eaten  without  i*lt  ? 
or  ia  there  any  taate  in  the  white  of  an  egg  ?  " 

*■  Tlie  thhi^  that  my  eoul  refuted  to  touch  are  aa  my 
■Ontnrfttl  meat." — Gimaum  Vtrtum. 

"  Can  an  muaroury  thing  be  eaten  that  ia  not  aea- 
aoned  with  aalt  ?  or  caa  ■  man  taite  that  which  wlm 
tasted  bringeth  death  ?  '—Domv  Vtttion. 

These  form  a  very  small'sample  of  the  discrep- 
•noieaintranslationlhaTetaetwith,   Amliigbt 


ingot 


Hel»ew  cannot  be  ascertained  P 


'  Tfaoogh  the  orerflowing  of  the  Nile,  which  in 
itself  wcrald  be  no  novelty  to  tbe  Israelites,  is  not 
expntdj  mentioned  by  Moeee,  it  seems  distinctly 
referred  to  in  Deut.  zi.  10,  II :  where  the  Is- 
tMlites  are  told  the  promised  land  waa  not  like 


Egypt,  but  a  land  that  drank  water  of  the  lain  of 
haayen.  Zecbariah  xiv.  17, 18,  distinctly  refera  to 
Egypt'a  being  independent  of  rain  for  its  fruitfnl- 
neas.  p.  p. 

PioKKLHBBEroa  (4"'  S.  Tii.  35fi.) — ^In  "  Notice* 
to  Gorreapondents  "  it  is  said,  "  In  the  German 
farces  I^ckeiherring  is  the  name  of  tbe  Droll  or 
Merry  Andrew."  It  was  his  name  at  Looe,  ia 
Cornwall,  also  in  my  boyhood,  and  Tras  frequently 
abridged  into  PiekU,  or  rather  Peckk. 

Wx.  PSKSELLr. 

Torqnay.  

MUctTUncoutf. 

irOTES  OM  SOOKS,  ETC. 

Tht  Hambnriiiiio  0/ Jwhi,  proftuiomll*  HtnatigaUd  bv 

Hr.  Chariea  Cbabot  (Expert)-       Wtth  Pre/act  and 

Onllaltral  Evidnet  by  tht  Hon.  Edward  TwlaleCon. 

(Hurray.) 

Thla  haudHime  quarto  Tolnme,  with  nearly  three  hun- 
dred bc-almllea,  has  a  double  intereat.  The  fliat  tteta 
tbe  inflaence  which  it  Is  destlued  bencefonh  !< 


npon  all  queationa  where  ic 


m^a  text-l 


Triting  Is 


a  that 


On  the  publication  0(  Woodfidl'a  edition  of  JuniMt  Iti 
three  Ttdamta,  Ihe  lata  ianniDaa  Mr.  John  Taylor,  atmok 
U  la  aaid  by  Jnnina'  adrocacy  of  Ibe  caoae  of  roong 
Franma,  thn  a  deik  In  the  War  Office,  waa  led  to  hiTe*- 
tigata  tlM  origin  of  this  Iteling ;  and  tba  resiilt  wa*  bis 
conTiction  tut  Dr.  Franeia,  the  Either  of  Ibe  iujared 

cleiii,  was  Janloa.    Thia  opinion  ha  advanoed  in  a 

'■■    AMOoTaftheLM 
1  1818.    U  tl  beU._ 
t  appeared,  Mr.  Taylor 


another,  entitled  Jtinita  Identified,  with  Sir  Philip 
Franeia  (br  Ita  hero,  made  iti  appearance.  If  thla  theaiy 
haa  met  with  many  able  and  Tigoraoa  oppoueutii,  it  has 
on  the  other  band  been  anpported  by  many  w^  quali- 
fied to  form  an  opiuionoutbla  antborehip,  one  of  the  moat 
eminent  arcoug  them  being  the  late  Lord  Hacanlay. 
Thonrii  lem  confident  upon  the  sulgect  of  late  yeare. 
Lord  Sniu^ham  in  1817,  reviewed  the  latter  pamphlet 
in  the  Edinburgh  Sevitv  ;  and  in  a  note  to  the  atticle, 
the  whole  tenor  of  which  waa  to  prove  the  identity  of 
Francis  and  Jnnina,  he  remarked : — 

"  We  nnderatand  that  it  ia  confidently  atatad  in  Lon- 
don that  atill  more  predea  evidence  exiata  ^  the 
dmltaritv  of  hands,  drawn  tnnx  Sir  P.  Franda'a  eariier 

We  have  great  rason  to  baliare  that  Lord  Brongham 
here  referred  to  the  docnmaota  now  pnhliahed  Iot  the  flrat 
time  by  Mr,  Twialeton,  and  wlilch  form  the  bairis  and 
origin  of  tba  large  and  daborate  work  now  Iwlim  nt. 
Then  docnmenta  conaiat  of  a  copy  of  Tnsea,  and  the 
anonymcMu  coTering  letter  acnt  to  a  Hiaa  OUea,  at  a  time 
when  Franda  waa  at  Bath  oa  a  vjilt  to  hia  fUber.  Soon 
after  the  publication  of  WoodfUl's  three-volnme  edition  ■ 
of  Jnnlos  with  its  bfrdmilei^ MiM GIlM,  than  Mi*.  Kii«,l  |(^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4»8.Tn.  M4ifi»,*ri. 


who  had  tlmff*  ballered  the  letter  ud  eDclomre 
from  Prandj,  TeeognfaMiI  the  Identity  of  the  two  i 

a  eonnqaeBO*  thadooaPMnli  iranbo^iiniibd.   Thl* 


We  lUT*  not  ipue  to  detail  how  tbata  Mpen  CUM  under 
UwiHtlnofllr.  TwUeton;  how  he  nibmittad  Ifca  Term 
to  Ml.  Nethmii^  who  decided  Uiat  thn  wwo  Bot  hand- 
writtoB  1^  Fmub;  tuw  the;  onntiully  pwved,  ia  the 
jodgoMittofHr.ChdMt,  to  have  bean  wiltm  by  TUgh- 
roan,  Frand^a  cooain  and  companion  at  Bath  ;  now  the 
cowing  letl«i  waa  erentiudlj  identifled  aa  Fnncia'e ; 
nor  to  enter  at  tngth  npon  the  mionto  and  aMuching 
Inreetintion  eabfuaandy  undertaken  by  Ur.  Chnhet  to 
esubliah  that  the  Jiwiait  letten  ware  handwritian  b; 

For  iJl  theae,  and  much  mora  cnriaoe  mattar  that  bean 
npon  the  qoeatian,  we  nuut  lefcr  oar  naden  to  the  book 


'.&abM 


im|>«tiall7,  and  Iha  eardbl  manner  in  which  Hr. 
gitM  tbena«n»OBwUobhiiJndgnMiitiaANmdMi  tiui 
the  renlt  wiU  ba,  we  doobt  not,  a  Terdict  Inat  tiw 
mi^oii^t  aAnnatfn  of  tba  Ideotily  of  Faanda  and 
Jnnio*.  Inonrmiad  thatebaraalwafaexlatadioinan/ 
diffionltUain  thawajofbaUavii^lbat  Ftanda  cooldhaTo 
been  the  wiitai  of  Uu  Lettai*  of  Jnniiu,  that  if  tboee 
diffloultiaa  hare  been  at  all  ranoTOd  t^  l(r.  Twialeton,  we 
miiM  reoord  onr  admiaaion  of  that  (hot  in  the  well-known 

Boiwa  BMatvan— An  and  Thm  it  .Eiijhiirf,  i*. 
dudag  a  Filgriamfita  Slntfird-ifim-J*o»,tgmMlow 
ortheSode^sfAntiqnailcaoraBotland.  (J.  K.  Sori^) 
A  pleaaant  littla  Tohmie  of  papete^  wUdi  oogfat  M  ban 
beat  notloed  }mbn.  Tboc  i>  perhapa  not  Bash  ta  ba 
Mid  Ibr  Q««tt«  tfe*  PiHiitb  (  bat  Hnuh'e  book  ia  •  wy 
poor  ■ottinttj'  on  wUA  to  etlgnuttiae  Mm  aa  Um  F.SX 
haadcMv    "-•--"—  ■• —  -■--  "- -^ 


adtmmafivm  Oh  CammiomdmBt  af  1 
■leetlOBOf  IntereatfnginBitMloBai  ' 


Tarn  coDaotioa  of  early  printed  booki  at  the  Arclueo- 
logjael  T^rfitnt.  ta  of  the  moet  intareettng  oharaeter. 
Hoet  of  the  apadmelM  ■xhihitAH  ue  what  bibliomaniaca 
rail  "flRaanen."  Tba  Bar.  J.  Poller  Buaetl  la  the 
laqett  oatiiboear,  and  mdnroM  have  alao 


of  all  the  books 
r  bar  Uaji 


"MinlaPialter 
clonaly  lent  bj  bar  Majesty,  wbo  alaa  ezhiUta  tevecal 
other  enrlDE 
fcraphy. 

"--T"'  LOBOMiB  uuoDnee  among  their  fbrtboomlng 
booka  a  rohuna  of  "  Fc^nlar  Leetaraa  on  Soientillo  Sab- 
j«ct%"^  Fnfenor  Helmholls  ofHeidelbeq:, 

Eieomfn  "PofdOMaMmi."  — The  aapy  «aU  tfy 
Mean.  SothdTv  WilUAMn,  and  HodgtL  on  Vonday  of 
tba  preaaat  weak,  ia  tbna  deaeribed  in  IM  catalogD* : — 
"  BlaiA  lattar,  a  iHuafcabl;  aoond  and  p«(feot  copy  in  Ua 
priadna  atata,wlth  lammaiginaiof  estMsa*  ml^  In 
each  flna  h^"****  ftnmtfrfn,  eld  oal^  &  BMt  dMJrahla 
TohuK  'Empnnlad  at  WaataaMn  by  Wynkyn  Ths- 
worls  MLOOCXLLSXXXT.'  Thia  adltko  ti  MOUilnUe  fbt 
tba  beaotT  oT  ita  tnasn^loal  wueaHam."  It  pw 
dneedlOUL 


CtBOVLATtOIt  OF  TBB  EXHIBrnCnr  GATALOOQ^k— Ott 

the  two  flnt  ahilUng  daya  at  the  Exhibition,  ths  aJa  at 
thc^O&lal  Caeal[«aaa  wna   ifiaO   and   2,08(1    asfiM 


Tke  Hvwvam  Fu*  Font.— Ha  Ajmoal  Dinnv 
of  the  Maoda  of  UUa  saeM  and  tbrirloif  loMitatka  wia 
take  plaoa  UHtaj'  (Satorday),  undai  tna  FnebtaLcj  cf 


The  LrrERAKT  Fitkd.— The  Bishop  of  Wincheater  ia 
to  taka  tha  dialr  at  tht  ABairaaaiy  Dinner  on  Tiieailaj 
which  oecasiou  he  will  be  nipportad  by  a  laiga 
— ■'-'  bodj  of  atawarda. 
Bt.  Patmck's  amo  Cqbibt  CauHOB  CAXB>DKU4^— 
A  bin  hai  bean  introdnctd  into  the  Irish  Church  Sjnoi 
oonatitntlng  Cbiiit  Cbnrch,  H  the  cddar  of  the  two,  tlia 
aatbadnlcf  thediooeaaof  DobUoi  MdStPaadtk^M 


riMkuianorPilghM^ 


■ifaGfia 


fiaUtKt  to  edrtH^onlmitf . 


[.  S—SoM  our  Com^Budt 

nyer  and  Ordinal*  of  £dwi 

H.B.  tt'alUn.iaHlpmilitlutlbyBMiiglimit 


aPnmr  andOrdinaliof  £dwardTL,«filirfir  Sm. 


Ca>n.iTi(»  or  St.  Paul's.— JIfr.  Bbw^i  IMrm  mm 

pKLAOIUt^Tlli  arfilin  o/The  Canterfanv  Ti^m  tf 
ISeiai^anfa  ia  fwv,  aU  h  Hi  h  A<  SrMut  JbMaai. 
/>  (ia  Blbllothaoa  An^Paatka,|MUial«d  wUU^atu 


DutTUL — JK)  DlAar  orAiin  on  'Stift "  iiHiaiiiail  n 
"N.  &  Q."  o/ter  Uoaa  fwKoi 

Ebbata^-1>'  S.  ylL  p.  884,  col.  L  line  8  bom  brttnn, 
At  " irkaoma acta "  nod" neaiij  unknown  acta,"  In  tba 
Brrata  notiead  on  p.  S18  of  thb  Ttdnn^  tha  nOnaoi 
•benld  ban  baeo  to  «  toL  viL"  mCtoL  fi" 


4*8.  TIL  Hat  so,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


LeaDON,  BATORDAY,  MAT  K 


CONTBBTS.— S*  177. 

HOTB1 1— The  OrWn  oTUie  '  Fetfcf  Loek  "  as  ■  Cosiriranra 
at  tbe  UioKt  nt  Wniidl,4tS  — FdmibI  Plemn:  Oohl- 
MnlULtU— QuoUtlon  In  "  Roblnion  Cnuoe,"  7&.  —  Folk 
Lore.  Bunai;  Ibe  Blow-worm  —  Hj-Jluk«  —  Beipiina 
Boatka  in  Fnoca  —  D»ler  —  Fknllsl  PungM  —  L 
North  lADCuhire  Sobs  —  Volli  Lu« :  Tbuoder  —  As  In- 
dent Cuitom  —  Hum,  or  BrunawEck  Bum,  >  itniDB  Bear 
—A  Cromwell  Note  —  HlcUt,  42r. 

OtTB&IBS  :*— Eugene  Ante  —  Author  wuited  —  Thonm 
BedientlLe— TbeCod  PKherr  of  Newfoundland,  end  en 
Beelnh  OtaTeot  in  Pmnia  —  '  Cohibi  to  Qrlef  "  —  Dt*on- 
■Ure  Worde  —  The  Verb  "  Baemoured  ■■  —  Qrou  Biling— 
Hoaui  — 'SUUnB  no  Murder"  —  Uv-D*]'  Cu«toin.-~ 
Ponten  CbwiM  of  Namee  —  On  the  Abaenee  ol  any 
FrenchiWard  Tor  "  to  Kide  "  —  "  Boushi "  —  The  Siolllaa 
^nnt— Tennjioniana  — "The  Borbeod  of  Bt.  Thomu 
TtUamave  "  — TolUOriana,  «>. 

BBFLDSi  —  Birtet  and  Boiftad's  Fannanai,  isi  — 
TiUUm  BalM,  Ih.  —  Tbe  Sitbq  Boiw  of  Panon  Aiery, 
Ml  —  nie  Oompletlon  of  St.  Pinra.  IM  —  Oo  the  Abnnce 
of  mstitatb  Toid  riinilf^lng  'U  Bland,''  4M  —  Har- 
areTTaidleL  Ladj  Uortimer,  MT  -  PampUel :  Ita  Bt7< 
molcKT.ttS  — UielBeld  Polk  Lore.  A.  —  Munvo  Park  and 
tba  HoM— Onuittum  tan  SIgna— Charlei  IT— Jadldal 
(Mb*  —  Hampden  Famllj--^  Wittj  ai  PlaailDlna  FJac- 
eiM"— The  BaTa]Maient-Ua1diorHoaour-''OOeml- 
id ! "— B<*e«  Blafr,  tbe  Antbor  of  '■  The  Graye  "-Order* 
i^KnighUurad— "AeOjrll  and  Nathan";  anOldOifWd 
Bplcnin  —  Beaoehamp  —  Lancaihlre  Timber  Hilla  — 
BleTea  Bhllllng  Pleoea  or  Charlea  L  -  China  Hania  - 
Cbarma  tor  Apie— Create —"  Fuller  Worthtee  Mbrary" 
~~  Hourolns  or  Black-edged  Writint  Paper,  Ac,  MO. 


Sreiy  one  who  u  at  all  acquuntad  frith  tha 
_.  _  kteologj  of  Wiltghire  ii  aware  of  the  badge,  or 
cognizanco,  of  the  "fetter-lock" — a  kind  of  pad- 


lo&  UiSed  for  faatening  bwethet  the  chains  of 
pruonen — boiaehv  thefatuil;of  Lonsof  Wraxall 
and  Draycote.  They  are  also  familiar  with  the 
aMonnt  of  mch  hadge  which  thej  find  in  Aubrey, 
viz.  that  "Draycote  wa«  held  hy  petit  aetjeantio, 
namely,  hj  being  Marshall  at  tbe  King's  corona- 
tion; which  is  the  reaaon  Uie  Cemee  gare  the 
Hanhall's  Lock  for  tbelr  eogniiance."  (Jackson'r 
AiAreff,  p.  228.)  Canon  Jackson,  while  he  doubts 
the  correctness  of  one  porticm  of  Aubrey's  state- 
ment about  "  the  being  Marshall  at  the  Corona- 
tjou,"  neverthelen  endorses  it  in  the  main,  (ud 
gives  thisdetwled  explanation  of  it; — 

"  Draycote  wu  held  of  the  Crovrn  by  the  nominal  aer- 
vlce  of  anpplfJDE  'the  third  rod  of  tbe  Maribaliea'  in 
the  Klng'i  Houauold  :  by  which  is  probably  meant  sup- 
ply ing  oneaf  thevert^ra,  or  waad-beatera,  t«  attend  upon 
tbe  U arahal — tbe  third  rod'a  poat,  according  to  another 
reoard  (T,^.  dt  JV.  147),  being  U  '  the  door  or  the  kinfr'a 
kitchen^  (ad  oiliin  roquimc).  Tbe  Shackle-bolt  would 
aecording]]'  be  tbe  emblem  of  tbe  Asaiatint  Maiehal'a 
•ntbority  over  alt  maraudem,  or  breakers  of  the  peace,  in 
that  department."— Jack nn'a  Aubrty,  p.  229. 

It  is  somewhat  perilous,  in  the  face  of  such 
authorities,  to  suggest  a  doubt  as  to  tbe  accuracy 


of  tiieae  statements,  or  as  to  the  ingenious  ex- 

(ilanation  of  Uie  origin  of  iha  badge  of  the  fetter- 
Dck.  But  I  have  long  been  sceptical  on  Uie 
subject,  and  so  venture  to  submit  my  own  ex- 
planation, and  the  grounds  on  which  I  have  formed 
my  opinions  respecting  it 

1.  And,  first  of  all,  with  legud  to  the  peculiar 
tenure  under  which  Draycote  Ceme  was  held. 
No  donbt  this  dated  &om  ancient  times.  In  the 
Ezon  Domesday  for  Wilts  the  owner  of  Sraicote 
is  called  "  Goisfridits  MareiealUu."  He  is  included 
among  the  "  minietri  regis,"  or  king's  officers,  mem- 
bers of  the  royal  hcioftehold,  or  prinoipal  officers 
of  the  oourt^  who  held  lands  onginaUy  appurte- 
nant to  such  office.  (See  Jones's  Ihmeidau  for 
WHU,  pp.  147, 160.)  ThU  carries  us  back  to  the 
tenth,  or  eleventh,  century.  In  those  days,  wbat- 
ever  accidental  meaning  may  have  been  acquired 
by  it  afterwards,  the  word  mareicai  (At  equiva- 
lent of  our  marikal)  had  none  which  coula  ap- 
propriately be  represented  by  the  "  fetter*lock " 
as  an  emblem  of  duties  beloi^ng  to  him.  The 
word,  as  Max  Miiller  tells  us,  is  derived  &om  the 
German,  where  in  the  old  dialect  ManA-teah 
meant  a  farrier,  from  moroA  a  mare,  and  teelo  a 
servant  The  care  of  the  royal  stablefi,  whether 
in  person  or  deputy,  would  seem  to  have  been  hia 
dutr. 

But,  passing  by  the  question  of  the  appropriat«- 
ness  of  tbe  badge  as  regards  the  tenure  of  Dray- 
cote, is  there  any  proof  at  all  that  it  was  so  used, 
in  aninent  timee,  by  the  owners  of  that  estate  r 
As  far  as  I  have  been  able,  by  a  somewhat  diligent 
search,  to  ascertain,  none  whatever.  In  truth,  I 
know  not  of  ■  Nngle  example  of  the  use  of  this 
badge  which  is  nMessarily  of  an  earlier  date  than 
1490,  when  for  the  first  time  WraxaU  and  Dray- 
cote were  held  by  one  and  the  same  person,  vii. 
by  Sir  Thomas  Longe,  who  having  first  of  all 
inherited  Draycote,  on  the  decease  of  his  father 
John  Longe  (c  1479),  for  whom  the  estate  had 
been  pnrdiased,  succeeded  in  1400  to  Wraxall 
also,  on  the  decease  without  issue  of  his  uncle 
Henry  Longe. 

Of  any  earlier  owners  of  Dra^cot«  than  the 
family  of  Ceme,  from  whom  it  derives  its  second 
name,  we  bavenomemorials.  At  Draycote  church 
there  is  a  large  cross-legged  effigy,  which,  ac- 
cording to  tradition,  is  the  memorial  of  Sir  Philip 
Ceme,  who  is  said  to  have  built  the  church  about 
the  year  1260 ;  but  on  no  part  of  tbe  effigy,  nor  of 
the  arched  recess  within  which  it  is  contained,  is 
there  the  least  trace  of  the  badge  of  tbe  "fetter- 
lock." Neither,  as  far  as  my  observation  has 
gone,  is  it  to  be  found  on  any  of  tbe  more  ancient 
portions  *of  the  church  or  tower.  Then  again 
there  ere,  in  the  chancel,  brasses  of  Sir  Edward 
Cerne  (c.  1393),  and  of  his  daughter  Philippa ;  but 

on  neither  have  we  thi"  '--'--   —-' •-  •- >-'- 

matical  of  the  tenure  u 


e  this  badge,  said  to,be  emble- 
ure  under  whM  ^7<^('4c 


.424 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'kS.Tn.  MArJOt'Tl. 


lield.  Is  it  likely  tbat  it  would  have  been  miasing, 
if  the  opinion,  the  correctnesa  of  which  wa  &re 
discusmng.  were  founded  in  truth  f 

After  the  Lon^  family  were  owners  of  Dray- 
cote  we  find  plenty  of  eiaoiples  of  the  use  of  this 
badge.  On  tne  tomb  of  Sir  Thomas  Long,  who 
died  in  1608,  it  ia  found,  and  also  on  Draycote 
Mill:  but  there  it  is  in  cocmectioa  with  the  coat 
of  lionr  impaling  Darell,  which  fixes  its  date  at 
a  perioa  eubsequent  to  1490. 

The  badge  waa  seen  in  Aubrey's  time  on  a  large 
monument,  now  destroyed,  in  the  church  of  Box, 
'  1  the  memory  of  Anthonv  Long  (fourth  * 


a  monument  would  seem  to  show  that  they 
garded  it  now  rather  as  a  family  badge  than  ta 
indioative  of  the  tenure  of  Draycote.  In  fact  it 
was  at  Bokaccompanied  with  the  motto  "  Envi 
will  lye,"  which  U  found  only  at  WraxalL  (See 
Jackson's  Aubrey,  pp.  29, 66.) 

The  coneluaion  to  which  I  have  come  ia 
— that  there  is  no  evidence  either  that  the  Cemes 
used  this  badge  of  the  "  fetter-lock,"  or  that  the 
Longs  firat  adopted  it,  when  they  became  their 
Bucceasora  at  Draycote,  as  an  emblem  of  the  tenure 
under  which  that  estate  was  held. 

2.  We  will  now  go  to  Wraiall,  and  see  whether 
we  have  any  proof  there  of  an  early  use  of  the 
"  fetter-lock  "  »a  a  eogniiance  by  the  Long  family, 
and  whether  in  the  oistoiy  of  their  estate  there 
we  can  find  any  peculiarity  that  may  account 
for  it 

Without  doubt  the  earlieat  known  examples  of 
its  nse  are  over  the  gateway  leacUng  into  the 
manor  house,  and  on  an  old  tomb  in  the  church  at 
WmxalL  Judging  from  external  appearances, 
there  certainly  seems  no  reason  for  considering 
the  gateway  otherwise  than  coeval  with  the  older 
portions  01  the  manor  house,  which  would  be 
about  1430-1460.  At  the  first  glance  we  should 
assign  the  tomb,  which  is  that  of  a  female,  with 
what  are  described  generally  aa  the  arma  of 
"  Long  impaling  Berkeley  quartering  Seymour," 
to  about  1460.  In  both  mstances  the  date  would 
be  certainly  forty  or  fifty  years  before  Wraxall 
and  Draycote  were  held  by  one  and  the  same 

On  the  auppontion  that  the  badge  really  belongs, 
in  the  firat  instance  at  all  events,  to  Wraxall,  can 
we  give  any  account  of  it  P  I  think  we  can — aa 
the  following  extracts  will  show. 

In  the  ShaftesbuiT  Uhartnlary  (Hail.  MS.  81), 
in  ita  account  of  "Wrokasfaam"  (as  WrKxall  is 
there  designated)  aa  part  of  the  manor^  Brad- 
ford, the  whole  of  which  belonged  to  that  re- 
ligiooB  hooae,  we  have,  at  fol.  8S,  the  following 
entriea  respecting  the  tenants  there  :— 

"  WiU.BLMDS  Bedel  teaet  Himn  hulam  pro  m  solid, 
pro  omoi  serrido  M  dimid.  virg.  terra  p.  trvic,  d4  Btdtl." 


"  OsBBBTDs  SpBruso  tenet  dimid.  viryaL  pro  qui 
debgt  Hqul  hnndredO  et  comit.  joMic  et  imuoiiloanea  per 
totU  hnndredo,  et  ad  cmniL  teatificsri." 

These  extracts,  as  we  judge  from  internal  eri- 
dence,  relate  to  aiMut  the  year  1250.  They  abow 
that  two  email  holdings  at  Wraxall  were  appur- 
tenant to  what  are  hereafter  described  as  the 
offices  of  the  "Bedel  "(or  bailitf),  aiidthe"8«- 
jeant"  of  the  hundred  of  Bradford-  The  duties 
of  these  functionaries  consisted,  amongst  oUmt 
things,  )□  carrying  out  the  machiiiery  of  tiie  court 
of  the  hundred,  and  enforcing  ita  deciuoos.  It  is 
not  difficult  to  see  how  appropriate  a  badge  of 
such  an  office  aa  the  bailiff  of  the  hundred  held 
would  be  the  "fetter-lock." 

In  a  Burvey  of  the  manor,  of  the  date  163(^  wa 
find  the  following  entries,  which  mulalu  wurfawtf' 
aeem  but  a  tranamtion,  with  some  additional  par- 
tJculBTB,  of  the  extracts  above  given  ftom  tlit 
Shaftesbury  Chartulary.  In  the  index  to  tins 
surreT,  the  office  held  by  Daniel  Yerbury,  which 
exactly  corresponds  with  that  held  scone  four 
hundred  veare  twfore  by  Usbert  Sperling,  ia  calltd 
that  of  the  "  Senesnt  of  the  Hundred." 

Fol.  26:  — 

"JoHR  LosG,  Esq',  is  BsyliEh  of  tb«  Handnd  tf 
nJIcriInn  and  Tenure  of  OMtsia  lands  ha  holdctli  in 
Wraxall  ss  before  is  set  forth." 

FoL24:  — 

"  JoHH  Loso,  Esq',  holdcth  freely  one  Hidt  of  Isnd  is 
Wraxbnll  as  of  the  foresaid  Hanonr,  tonttfrna  lit  h»d 
of  a^iUiani  BtdcO,  bj  Knight's  Sen-ice,  and  xxiTi.  E(ot 
aud  Sute  of  Court,"  4c. 

"  The  said  Joim  boldeth  also  freelj-  OM  half-i/trrd  toi 
in  Wraxall,  m  of  (be  wid  Manour,  bv  Serjeancjn  vli"  to 


Coimtie,aL_  ._    . 

Lords  Workes,  and  to  have  his  Drinking  when  the  tori> 
Steward  shall  keep  the  Handred  Court  and  ConiU  of  the 
Manoor,  and  lo  do  all  Executions  which  pertain  to  Ibc 
said  Handled  at  bis  proper  Costa  and  Charges,"  Ac 

Fol.  25 :  — 

"  Damikl  Terbitbi  holdeth  freely  im  hdfyard  l—i 
In  WnxallasoftberoieMidMaDoarbr  flerieaney<,Tl^ 
to  attend  the  Bailiff  of  the  Hundred  of  Bradford  to  tits 
distresses  thronghont  the  Handred,  to  make  aa&OBa,  and 
to  bear  iritneaa  to  the  Bailiff." 

We  can  with  cert^nty  from  these  extracts  di*v 
the  inference  that  the  Long  family  came  into  po- 
ses^on  not  only  of  the  estate  of  "  one  hide,"  held 
in  Wraxall  about  the  year  1260  by  WiUiam  Bedel, 
but  also  into  posaession  of  the  smaller  holding  cf 
"one  half-yard  land"  that  was  appurtenant  to 
the  office  of  "Bedel"  (or  bailiff)  of  the  hundrad 
of  Bradford.  And  aa  the  badge  of  the  "fetlei- 
lock"  waa  adopted  by  them  from  the  earlisrt 
period  of  their  settlement  in  Wraxall,  it  wdoM 
appear  probable  that  it  was  used  aa  an  emblem, 
appropriate  enough,  of  the  honourable  office  they 
held  there  under  the  Abbess  of  Shanesbuiy  W 
Lady  of  the  Hundred  of  BradfowJ,  V^t  C)  O^  I C 


4^  8.  vil.  Mai  89, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


425 


S.  A  third  jkoiat  lutnrally  amea, — How  cuue 
fb«  Longs  first  into  Wraxall,)uid  how  did  they  oV 
tain— b  J  purchase  or  by  marriage — the  lands  once 
belonnng  to  William  Bedel  P  I  do  not  profess  to 
be  ahle  to  anawet  these  questions  'with  any  degree 
et  certaint7.  Still,  in  the  hope  that  others  mav 
be  able  to  supply  some  additional  materials  whicn 
wUl  help  to  clear  np  what  to  all  who  have  tried 
to  inTestigat«  it  has  proved  a  \etj  difficult  ques- 
tion, I  renture  to  put  forth  the  following  con- 
ndetations  as  possible  helps  towards  ita  solution. 

It  may  be  observed  that  the  Long  family 
wonld  seem  to  h&ve  regarded  this  cogmzsnce  of 
the  "fetter-lock"  as  an  bonoucable  one.  On  the 
tomb  in  Wrarall  church  it  ia  repeated  many 
times.  On  the  gateway  to  the  manor  house, 
vrobably  bnilt  by  Robert  Longe,  the  first  of 
hia  family  known  to  have  poesesaed  property  at 
WiaxaU,  we  have  as  the  termination  of  the  label 
<m  whtkt,  hetaldically  speakiog,  would  be  the  dex- 
ter aide,  the  "fetter-lock";  and  on  the  other,  in 
Aubr^'s  time,  WBS  a"stsg'shead."  The  same  em- 
blema  or  badges  are  seen,  and  in  the  same  order, 
ever  a  door  opening  into  the  Longs'  chspel  in 
Wrazall  church.  No  doubt  the  "jfii^'i  head"  is 
the  crest  of  Po^m;  and  so  is  a  record  of  the 
tetxmd  wife  of  Kobert  Longe,  who  was  of  that 
family.  The  name  of  hiafirtt  wife  is  only  matter 
Bf  conjecture.  May  not  tte  "fetter-lock  "  possibly 
be  denred  from  the  property  which  he  obtaiaea 
through  herP  After  aU,  Mtween  the  date  of 
William  Bedel  and  the  first  settlement  of  the 
Long*  in  Wraxall,  there  wonld  not  he  necessarily 
a  period  of  more  than  one  hundred  and  aixty  years. 
It  wonld  not  he  too  sanguine  to  hope  that  some 
documentary  evidence  may  come  to  light  which 
may  anpply  the  miaeing  Unks,  and  ao  show  the 
descent  of  the  property,  shortly  after  the  com- 
meocement  of  the  fifteenth*  century,  to  the  Longs. 

Leland  and  Camden  both  give  us  a  few  bnef 
notiees  oF  the  first  "setting  up  of  tlie  house  of 
the  Longea."    The  former  aays; — 

"  One  LoTig  TTvmai,  ■  stoute  feloir,  iru  Mtte  ap  by 
one  oT  tba  olde  Lordea  Hangnfordea.  And  after  bj  oinie, 
Ihii  ThaniM  wu  csnllid  Long  Thamat.  Lmiji  sft«r  vu 
CSurpid  for  the  nwne  of  tlis  family.  Tbis  Long  Thomai 
mittor  had  mm  Isnde  by  Hnngnfordea  procanilioD. 
Theia  mcGCdid  bym  Bobert  and  Haoij." 

The  latter  saya:  — 

•■  A  yong  Gentlemsn  of  the  baau  of  Fmx,  being  of 
tdl  stature,  (tteDding  on  tbe  Lord  HangerroTd,  Lard 
Treaannr  of  England,  vu  unoag  hia   feUowa   called 


peaUnty,  kuighu  and  men  of  gnat  •orahi| 

Without  accepting  all  the  details  of  these  tra- 
ditionftiy  stories  as  quite  reliable,  I  think  we  may 
nfely  conclude,  as  all  such  tales  have  some  Irutn 
in  them,  that  they  probably  give  the  real  state  of 
the  case  as  reguds  two  facts:  (l)  that  it  was  by 
-"—-— ^  that  the  Longs  first  obtamed  properbf  at 


Wraxall;  and  (S)  that  they  were  indebted  t(a 
their  advancement  in  some  way  or  other  to  the 
Hungerfords.    There  is  no  difficnlty,  in  truth,  In 

accepting  Camden's  statement  on  the  latter  point 
more  completely  r  for  Walter  Lord  Hungerford, 
who  was  High  Treasurer  of  England  and  Knight 
of  the  Garter,  was  a  contemporary  of  Robert 
Longe,  and  was  very  well  able  to  do  a  good 
service  to  those  who  were  fortunate  enough  to  be 
attached  in  anv  way  to  hia  household. 

There  woula  seem  to  be  some  little  reason  for 
believing  that  lands  once  held  by  the  family  of 
Bedel  came  in  course  of  time  to  tnnt  ot  Berlegh: 
the  latter  of  whom,  during  the  fourteenth  centun*, 
were  no  inconsiderable  landowners  in  the  nngh- 
bourhood.  The  following  extracts  do  not  auo- 
lutely  prove  the  fact,  but  they  seem  to  show  that 
such  was  not  alt«geuier  improbable :  — 

"  tn  1S91  we  find  Thomas  de  Forde  bailiff  orthehnndred 
of  Bradford,  with  lands  In  Wraxall  iUTirtaBof  big  office." 

■•Ill  1S29,  accordiae  to  the  Wilts  dnes,  one  Waller 
Harpden  adla  to  Kiiiatd  Foyntt  of  Bradford  certain 
laudj  to  wUch  the  office  of  bailiff  was  attacbed." 

"  Id  1895  Bichard  Poyntx  and  othen  ooovey  to  Thomat 
Btrbgh,  Alloc  hi*  nih,  and  John  thetr  soe,  lUl  the  lands 
they  had  by  gift  of  Thomas  Ford  tn  Box,  Twerton,  Ford, 
aod  Blaewbere." 

Of  one  thing  we  are  quite  sure,  that  at  thia 
time  members  of  the  family  of  Berlegh  were  cer- 
tainly settled  at  Wraxall :  as  early  as  1333  the 
name  of  Ri^r  de  Berlegh  appears  in  a  subndy 
loll  under  Wraxall;  and  ugnatures  of  varioua 
members  of  it  are  also  appended  to  deeda  relating 
to  property  in  the  neighnourhood,  from  that  time 
down  to  about  the  year  1400,  Moreover,  there 
was  a  place  in  Wraxall  called  Berley's  (or  Bar- 
ley's) Court,  which,  according  to  Canon  Jackson, 
passed  to  Blunt  and  then  to  Hussey  (Aubrey, 
p.  26J. 

It  has  struck  me  also  that,  possibly,  the  arms  on 
the  old  tomb  in  Wraxall  church  to  which  reference 
haa  been  made  may  afford  some  slight  confirmation 
of  this  conjecture.  The  shield  which  is  said  to  be 
that  of  Berielet/,  and  certunly  it  looks  as  though 
intended  for  it,  differs  both  as  regards  the  number 


fflther  roses  or  "plates.  The  whole  monument  is 
clumsily  executed,  and  the  shield  bearing  the  arma 
in  gnestioa  much  mutilated ;  but  a  careful  exami- 
nation has  convinced  me  that  the  charges  on  the 
shield  are  certainly  not  Un  (aam  every  Berkeley 
coat),  but  ni'ns,-  and  that  the  charges  on  tha 
chevron,  judging  from  the  one  of  them  that  re- 
mains most  perftct,  are  as  likely  to  he  fleurs-de- 
lia  as  either  roses  or  plates.  Bearins  in  mind  that 
the  most  diligent  search  has  found  no  match  at 
thia  sarly  period  between  a  Berkeley  and  a  Sey- 
mour, the  thought  has  occurred  to  me  that  pos- 
sibly, after  all,  the  shield  ma^  he  intended  for 
that  of  Sfrlfp^  or,  w  it  esme  to  be  epel^  Baring  ; 


486 


NOTBS  AJSD  QUEBIEa 


wliieli  oerUinlj  bean  *  stroog  maemUuwe  to  it, 
tOMj  the  least,  and  which  u  that  given  byBurfci 
— "Ouln  on  a  ehtoroa  btl«iten  mnt  ctvuei  erostltt 
fitehit  argaO,  (iretjtao-i'dflu  of  tl^Jldd." 

This  of  oonne  is  men  comectiire,  and  I  knoir 
not  whether  between  the  Eauuliei  of  Beilegh  and 
SeTmoQi  there  weie  aoj  intermairiage*.  SliU, 
with  auch  a  conjecture,  the  det«iU  ofCamden'a 
alorj  would  fit  m  without  difficulty.  Between 
the  families  of  Berlcgh,  Blunt,  and  Hutwy  th«t« 
we  close  eoonectionB.  In  1384  Thomas  Betlegh, 
of  Bathampton,  was  found  to  he  "  counn  and 
heir"  of  "Husm."  John  Blunt,  who  died  1447, 
and  was  of  the  familj  that  sncceeded  to  Barley's 
Court,  married  Wilhelmina,  danghter  of  Thomas 
a  Berlegh.  When  we  recollect  that  the  second 
vife  of  Sir  Xhomas  Huogerford  (the  mother  of 
Walter,  Lori  Hungerfoid)  was  Joanna,  dawhter 
of  Sir  Edmond  Hoasey,  and  so  most  {wobablj  a 
kinswoman  of  the  Berlegh  famQy,  the  story  of  the 
"  good  marciaga,"  ptomoted  hj  tiie  "  Lord  Trea- 
■nrer,"  wonld  seam  wobahle  enongh  after  all. 

Whilst,  as  regards  the  first  two  points — vi«. 
(1)  the  incorrectness  of  attributing  the  badge 
of  the  "fettei-lock"  to  Draycote  before  the  time 
of  the  LoDgs,  and  (2)  its  real  origin  in  the  pe- 
cnUar  twure  under  which  they  held  some  md 
in  Wraxall  aa  baili&  of  the  hundred  of  Brad- 
ford— I  am  sa^uine  as  to  baring  given  the  cor- 
rect account,  I  submit  my  ether  consderatioDa 
to  jour  readers,  in  the  hope  that  the  few  addi- 
tional particulars  wanting  mav  be  supplied,  and 
BO  a  matter  be  cleared  u^  whicn  hitherto  has  been 
very  puzaling  to  Wiltshire  archtsologiaCs. 

Wnxux  Hkxkt  Jon. 

Tha  Tfearaga,  Bmdford-on-Arou. 


FUNEBAL  FLOWEBS :  GOLDSMITH. 

"  Thi  Hiihrhi  U  nigh  Placa.—lt  !•  reported  that  at 

lh«  hmeril  of  iJw  iatant  Prinn  Alexander,  on  Tneaday, 


thewnt«iK 
1871. 

If  the  matter  were  of  sufficient  importance  I 
think  it  would  be  found  that  in  addition  to  would 
be  the  fact,  and  not  "instead  of."  It  is  not  likelv 
that  the  clergrman  would  have  omitted  "ear^ 
to  earth  "  or  the  sexton  have  fiuled  in  the  usual 
BCCompanimenL 

The  following  notice  ta  in  a  better  spirit,  and  I 
think  worth  preserving : — 

"  Had  ao;  of  ooi  rasdan  viailed  Ooldnnitti'a  tofflb  ia 
the  Temple  lait  week  they  would  have  fbaad  it.  u  «a 
did,  EtKwn  with  rarlj  qiring  flowere.  Soma  loving 
band  had  scattend  primresea  and  vktlM*  and  SKFirdiDpa 
npon  the  aCoaa  which  coren  all  that  it  mortal  of  poor 
■  Solly.'  The  Sowen  had  avidoall^  bean  placed  then  on 
the  aunivenai;  of  the  day  of  hia  death  by  aoni*  devoted 
pilgrim  to  the  ghrine  of  the  genius  who  gave  u«  Th4 


Viear  of  Wai^fitld  and  n*  Jtatrtid  FiO^e,     II  wu  a 
nntly  homage  to  pay  to  ' '-' *" —      ■" — "■ 

it  wac  an  inhabitant  of 


homage  to  pay  to  departed  gnatUeas.    Ferdtaooa 


Sweet  Anbnrn,  lordleat  flUag*  of  tbe  plaiti,' 
who  had  paid  tbatrlbote— aomebtekai  8(ddi«r,«MBepar- 
Boa  '  to  all  the  emniliT  dear,'  or  toa*  Dr.  Priianaa  of 
UwpeiM,iriDd*adMNh  kwertiiynMudati  b«t«ha- 
woMhy  act,  and  i^i<M 


OuBBT  (4>^  S.  Tii.  369)  wiU  be  pleM«d  to  find 
that  "  Old  Ooldy "  atill  haa  admirer^  wsoaf 
whom  I  leckon  mjaeU^  though  uii«Ue  to  help 
him  to  the  refaienoe.*  Such  of  oar  yonugDua 
whose  studies  and  pursuits  he  dascriM*,  it  may 
be  hopad  will  take  mora  than  "  a  glance  at  tu 
SiUiraa^  JUoiao,"  as  they  will  find  in  it  BO  (olenk> 
tion  for  those  who  neglect  claaaieB,  whether  andeat 
or  modeni.  But  man_y  yonng  and  even  middle- 
aged  men,  who  are  entitled  to  De  nlled  wdl-raad, 
know  little  of  our  standard  aothora  of  tba  laat 
centnty.  Qreat  books  bava  appeared  and  gnat 
■ubjecta  have  arisen  ainoewa  ware  young,  and  the 
pressure  for  tbem  is  immediate.  I  offisr  uta  in- 
stance from  mr  own  asperieBoa.  When  Ur. 
Bright  dellTered  hia  olever  wmile  of  "  the  Seatdi 
Terrier "  I  was  in  the  oountiy  among  raeii  who 
were  above  the  average  of  careful  readers.  I  said 
that  the  simile  was  ia  tbe  Dotes  to  7A«  DmnMd, 
and  wrote  out  the  tinea.  Sae  "N.  &  Q."  3^  S.  iz. 
394  IwascomplimwtedonmyquiokneaaiDbaving 
invented  and  veraifiad  my  fiction  within  aa  boor 
after  the  arrival  of  tbe  papara.  Of  foul  man,  aadi 
t  least  as  much  a  reader  as  myael^  oolv  ana  bad 
ead  Th«  Dutudad,  and  that  in  a  ona-vtuume  adi- 


Duaciad,  ai 

tioD  of  IN>pe  without  notaa> 
Qsnick  Clab. 


'EFns.nmat. 


QUOTATIONS  IN  "EOBIHSOTf  CEUSOE." 

There  are  tm  metrical  quotati<ms  in  Sobitmm 

Cmtot.  Oneia  apropoaof  thebero's  joyongettbg 

nfe  to  abore  on  the  island,  aft«r  his  ifeipwreck  :— 

"  For  sudden  Joys,  like  grfalh,  confound  at  flM."t 

Whence  is  this  taken  f 

Tbe  eecond  occurs  near  the  oommencement  of 
Part  n.,  and  when-GraKe  is  setUed  in  his  little 
&rm  in  Bedfordshire:  — 

•'  Now  I  thought,  indeed,  that  I  enjoyed  the  miWla 
stale  of  life  that  my  father  eo  eanieetly  nemameDded  lo 
me,  and  lived  a  kind  of  heavenly  life,  somethiiig  I>» 
what  la  deecribed  by  the  poet  npon  the  anbject  of  a  ooiutiy 
Ufa  — 

'  Free  from  vices,  free  from  c*ie, 
Aga  hae  no  pain,  and  youth  no  mara."' 

I  remember,  some  years  ago,  thinking  to  find 
this  couplet  in  Cowley  or  Sir  Ghsarge  Mackeniie, 
but  I  searched  in  vain.  The  lines  have  uosx- 
pectedly  turned  up  juat  now,  while  looking  over  a 

•  Thii  has  been  soppUed  by  Hr.  C.  Wtu«,  aee  p.  8**- 

at  Thii  qaotitioQ  wH  inqulied  aritr,  bnt  uaian"*[ 
y, in  " If.  a  Q."  3'*  S.  li.  166.— Eo.]  vj C) OQ  I C 


4*i.7ILllAT».Tl.] 


NOTES  AXD  QU£BI£a 


HJ 


duriona  old  Bong  book  of  brt  oeatarr,  called  The 
SHIM  MumcalMuMOonif,  or  tA«  Dtii^htfiii  Grove, 
London,  □.  d.  The;  foim  part  of  a  (oag  of  two 
ataniM  giTsn  in  vol  iL  p.  78:  botli  voids  and 
muaic  are  aaonjmoua ;  — 

"nu  cooHntT  utl 
"  Happy  i*  a  ooiuitry  lifs 

£IM  nith  •M^U□^  good  health  and  eu«  t 
Free  ftmn  ttetiaia  noln  and  strUk, 
We  0BI7  plot  munlTea  to  dImm  t 
IVaoe  of  mind's  odt  daj*!  dtii^V 
And  knre  at  welcome  dnenu  at  night. 
"  Hail  I^lireen  flddaind  ■hadj' wooda  I 


neen  ndda 

lTci7>taIst 


Han' 

Natnw' 

Wb«M  tMm  Mdy 
Pfee  fftm  vlo^  and  ftw  innu  uuo, 
Aga  bas  no  pam,  nor  youth  a  Biare," 
I  dare  ny  7001  learoad  ooireapondeot  Ob. 
KncB^iTLT  owld  toll  me  the  aathorahip  of  the 
aong  and  the  dale  of  the  book.     The  venea  of 
Sii  GooTge  Maekeario,  which  Z  had  in  mind, 
begin  fhoa:  — 
"  O  happy  oonntiT  life  1  ptm  lilu  ita  air ; 
Free  irnn  the  rage  of  pride,  tiie  panga  of  care. 
Here  bappy  soul*  lie  uthed  in  soft  eootant. 
And  are  at  onog  seonre  and  innooent." 

ElSIORSAOH. 

F.S.  I  ahotild  like  to  know  the  data  of  aoothet 
mnric-book  of  mine :  Harmimia  Saora,  or  Divine 
and  MonU  Songt,  KHh  Hgmtu  amd  Antkemt, 
London,  n.  d.  am.  4to.  It  ccmtunR,  anions  other 
sonoa:  "Tho  Character  of  a  Happj  Life,  b;  Sir 
H.  Wotton ;  hymna  fWim  George  Herbert,  Addt- 
Bon,&Ci  Dr.Watt8"'BusyBee"i  Bnd"APara- 
phnae  on  the  Lord's  Prayer,  from  QaU,  Mag.  tor 
Sept.  1764." 

FotE  LOKB,  SnaSBX:  TEE  SlOW-WOBU. — In 
looking  over  Choice  Noiee  on  Folk  Lore  eztncted 
from  "N.  &  Q.,"  I  found  on  p.  243  a  notice  of 
the  Sussex  snperstition  that  the  elow-worm  has 
certain  words  written  on  its  belly.  The  version 
there  glTen  i« — 

■in  oonld  bear  u  well  a*  ne. 
No  nun  of  lite  ihoald  niwter  nu." 

What  I  hare  heard  Is  aomewhat  different,  and  I 
renton  to  think  alao  worth  recording.  It  ia  oa 
fbllowa:— 

"in  onatd  hear  u  wdl  as  I  oan  Ma, 
Vo  man  nor  beast  should  pus  by  me." 

E. 

Hr-rarKS.  —  Id  common   perhapa    witb    the 

moltitnde,  I  hare  b»en  in  the  habit  of  writing 

thia  "high-jinks,"  and  have  conddered  it  to  re- 


pietaiaa  I  have  even  written  "higheat  jtnka"  for 
«ztoaTuant  fnn. 

But  I  haTe  been  altogetlier  wrong,  aa  the  note 
from  Allan  Bamaay  will  ahow, "  hy^jioka  "  being 


clea  he  loses  the  privilege  of  drawing  the  a 

;  ;  IWok.  fi)  Draw,  (8)  Fill.  (< , 
Jinks,'  (fi)  Connt  Jast,  (6)  Chnsa  your  doublet,  m 


■  qMoflc  fotm  of  tip^  nummant.    The  Scot 
poet  tiina  uqalaina  it  in  lua  -Sbwy  <m  Maggv  JiJu^ 
dan,  L  26,  ^din.l7aO :~ 

"A  dnukra  Rama,  or  new  pnieat  to  driak  and  be 
rieh:  thns  tbeqaeffM  e^>  Is  flllad  to  the  brim,  tbaa  one 
of  the  compaiv  takee  a  pair  of  dice,  and  after  cryiag 
'  Hy-jinka,'  he  throws  lh«n  ont :  tbs  nomber  ha  oasts 
np  pohtta  ont  the  penoa  that  moat  dilnk  1  he  who  threw 
bepnnlBg  at  Uouetf  owaber  ooei  and  so  lonnd  till  tbs 
aubsiof  the  penoaaKree  with  that  of  thsdiee  (wbi<A 
may  Isll  npoo  mnwelf  if  tha  namber  be  within  twelve) ; 
then  be  seta  the  dice  to  him,  or  bide  him  take  them  ;  ha 
on  whom  they  fall  is  obliged  to  drink  or  niv  ■  nmnli 
forMtnre  in  moiey,  then  throwa,  ai 


cry  ■  Ry-Jlnhs '  he  pan  a  fcrMtare  inia  Um 
DanR.  MOW,  ha  on  whom  It  lUls  to  drink  (if  there  be 
anrthhig  in  the  bank  worth  drawing)  gels  It  all  if  be 


dilnka;  then  with  a  great  deal  ofoanUon  be  empties  Ua 
enp,  sweeps  np  the  nosey,  and  orden  the  cmi  la  ba 
"    '  again,  and  then  tbraws!  for  if  be  errs  In  the  a   ' 


utlcles are^l)  Drink, (J'lDraw, (8) Fill,  (4)  1>y ' Hr- 


wh«o  two  eqnal  nnmboa  of  the  diee  is  thrown,  the  per-  , 
•on  whom  jon  cboaa  mnat  pay  a  double  of  the  common 
forfUtore,  end  bo  mnst  yon  when  the  dice  Is  In  hia  hand 
(aie).    A  nre  project  Is  this,  end  no  bobble,  I  can  asaora 

Km  j  tor  a  covetooa  fellow  may  aave  moiiey,  and  e*t 
mself  aa  drank  aa  he  can  dceirs  in  Isaa  than  an  hour's 
time." 

This  is  an  explanation  of  what  is  not  really 
worthy  of  it,  save  ^at  it  may  c<«rect  ignorance 
of  the  same  character  as  my  own.  D, 

BBiaNiNa  Beauties  di  Fbahce. — No  one  dr- 
cnmstanoe,  in  connexion  with  the  recent  political 
changea  in  Francs,  has  more  diaguatod  the  £aslish 
than  the  atrocious  libels  and  caricatures  circuLited 
in  Paris  agwnst  the  Empreae  Eoff^oie.  This 
nnmenlinsae^  in  the  treatment  of  tadies  whose 
husbands  have  for  the  time  been  invested  with 
supreme  power,  it  will  be  seen  by  the  following 
extract  from  the  writings  of  him  who  now  pre- 
ddes  over  tho  destinies  of  France,  has  always 
been  a  eharactaristic  of  the  Parisiau  populace  and 
their  infamous  press,  lleferring  to  the  state  of 
France  in  January  1795,  M.  Tliiers  thus  expresses 
himself:  — 

u  Madame  Tilllen  dtalt  la  ftmme  dn  Jour  qa'ils  accn- 
s^ent  le  plna,  csr  h  touta  les  ^poqnee  on  en  avait  sccnsd 
nee :  c' Aalt  la  perfide  eHeAanieretu  k  laqoelle  ila  rcpio- 
chi^ent,  comme  autrefois  k  Madame  Boland,  et  plus 
■ndennement  k  Msrle-Antoinetle.  tons  lee  manx  da 
penide," — Bi$tnire  dt  ia  Reooimtian  fraHfaiMi  vol.  vii. 
Qv.  xsvL  pp.  M,  6S,  Paris.  1846. 

Wm.  B.  M1.0  Cabb. 

Hoooantonrds-Bretacne,  Cataa  do  Nord,  France. 

Saoieb. — 

"  A  certain  Monaienr  Dacier,  two  hundred  years  ago, 
started  the  paradox  that  Che  Frsnob  wrjtan  of  bis  time 
were  as  good  ea  tha  ohtssics.  The  notion  found  favour 
■mong  hla  Ingenions  oountirmen,  and  cogtndered  a  con- 
troveraria  which  many  witty  things  were  said  on  Irath 
aides.  Ho*  many  uf  na  are  then  who  rsmsmber  even 
tbs  names  of  the  French  anthors  who  were  haadieapped 
with  Homer  and  TirgU  ?  "—Fall  Hall  CatOU,  AmA  96, 
1871.  TOOQIC 


428 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


[4«S.VII.KiT»,'7L 


The  above  i*  part  of  a  Ten  able  article  cm  Mr. 
Lowe's  Hpeech  to  the  Civil  EndDeers,  in  which 
be  repeated  hie  depreciation  of  daseicBl  studies. 
11  Dacier  ia^  not  a  *lip  of  the  pen,  the  writer  must 
hare  atrangely  forgotten  his  reading  on  the  ques- 
tion, which  has  not  fallen  into  such  complete 
oblivion  as  he  supposes.  Dacier,  though  be  did 
not  conttibnte  ai»  wit  to  the  contjoversv,  was  the 
most  learned  Bnd  vehement  writer  on  the  side  of 
Za  StograpMe  ghtireU  eaya  of 


Uou  ^guliferei,  que  BoUan  appdsit '  lu  i^^Udhb 
H.  Didei.'   Un  honune  d'esprit  I'a  osracUrisd  an  diiint, 
'  II  eoQDa<«uit  tost  des   andans  hon  la  frrtce 
finesse.'     Un  latre  diswt  da  lul,  'qn«  c'^lut  oi 
motet  chaiK^  da  toot  la  bagage  de  I'aiiUqult^.'  " 

AoonfroveisyofwhichSwift'a5ii«lHo^(A«^ooft» 
is  a  part  will  not  drop  out  of  literary  hiatorj,  and 
those  who  wish  to  know  the  most  interesting  part 
of  it  mar  consult  Siganlt'sZa  Querdit  deiAtuMM 
H  de»  mdemei,  Faru,  1656.  B.B.C. 

V.  D.  Club. 

Pabaujx  FABSAeEB, — I  do  not  know  that 
Byron's  touching  reference  to  the  "  young  gallant 
Ilotvard,"  in  (MIde  Mnrold,  has  been  noticed  as 
baving  its  protons  in  the  Pastor  Fido  of  Guarini. 
Bjiotrs  verse  runs  as  follows ;  — 
"  Tfaere  have  been  tears  and  breaking  hurts  for  (hee. 
And  mine  were  nothing  had  I  ludi  to  give  g 
Bnt  when  I  stood  beneath  tbe  frtah  green  tne. 
Which  living  waves  where  tbon  did'at  eeaia  to  live. 
And  MW  around  me  tha  wide  field  revive 
With  fruits  and  fotile  promiM,  and  tha  spring 
Come  Torlh  her  work  oF  gladness  to  contrive. 
With  all  her  reckless  birds  apon  the  wing, 
I  tara'd  from   all  she  brought^  to  those  tin  coohl  not 

Full  of  patbofl  and  beautr  as  this  ie,  it  is 
scarcely  so  pathetic  aa  the  wau  of  tbe  Italian :  — 
"  0  Primavera,  gioveatb  dell'  anno^ 
Bella  madre  de*  fiarr, 
D'  erbe  Dovella  e  di  nordli  aniDrt ; 
Ta  tonii  ben,  ma  teoo 
Nod  tomano  1  soeni 
K  rortnnall  i\  dells  mie  gioje: 
To  tomi  ben,  ta  tomi, 
Ma  teco  iltro*non  torna, 
Cha  del  perduto  mlo  csio  tetaro. 
La  rimembraoia  mUera  e  dolenle." 
One  Gilbert,  a  French  poet  of  the  eeventeenth 


century,  has  the  following  madrigal,  "  Sur  Tart 
d'aimer  d'Oride  " :  — 


Thisisobnously  the  original  of  Prior's  epigrero; — 


"  Ovid  ia  tbe  annet  gnida 

Ton  eaa  name  to  show  the  way 
To  aaywoman,  maid  or  wife, 
Who  resolves  to  go  astraj." 
More  neat  and  pointed  than  Gilbert,  but  Prior 
sa^  nothing  of  vrhence  be  got  his  idsA. 
J  do  not  know  who  owns  the  incenantly  quoted 
•'  I  do  not  Uka  thee.  Dr.  Fell," 
bnt  it  evidently  comes  from  the  "Non  amo  te, 
Sabidi,"  of  Martial,  tite  nnacknowledged  father  <^ 


innumerable 


G,  J.  £Pb  Wildb. 


A  NoKTs  Larcabhibe  Soiro. — The  following 

humorous  song,  in  the  dialect  of  Funieae,  North 
Lanceehire,  was  formerly  very  popular  in  that 
district  and  also  in  the  aajoinin^  counties.  It  has 
never  yet  been  in  print,  except  va  the  columns  of 
a  local  newspaper  to  which  I  sent  it.  May  I  hop* 
to  find  a  home  for  it  in  "  N.  &  Q."  F  — 


Yes  I  will,  iooa  I  will. 
An  111  wam't  ta  I'll  git  tha  a  wife~-I  wlU  I 
"  Fat  OQ  thi  best  deas,  at  iver  tiiou  has. 
An  kiss  iverv  lass  at  tboa  meets ; 
Ther's  som  ril  leak  shy,  an  tak  it  awiy. 
Bat  adders  i'U  eo  tba  a  sweet— thay  will  I 
Yea  thay  will,  sooa  thay  will. 
Bat  adders  I'U  co  tha  a  sweet— thay  will  I 
"  The  first  bonny  lass  that  Bogar  did  meat 
Was  a  flumer'a  fair  doaler,  bar  neam  it  waa  Kale  ; 
She  didn't  ezcbaoge  wl  him  many  ■  wotd, 
Bnt  she  (etch 'd  him  aelapi'tbebaoe— ahedidl 
Yes  sha  did,  sooa  she  did. 
Bat  she  fetch'd  him  a  slap  i'  the  feace-'Sha  did  I 
"  Sea  Boger,  if  this  be  like  laltln  a  wift, 
I'll  never  ga  laitin  anadder: 
Bat  I  will  leve  sing'd  o'  t'  days  o'  mi  lifb. 
An  I'll  awsy  yam  ta  ml  madder — I  will  t 
Yes  I  will,  BOOS  I  will. 
An  111  away  yam  la  mi  inaddet~I  will  1 " 

J.  P.  MoBZIS. 
17,  Satlon  Street,  Tae  Brook,  Uveipeel. 
FoLZ  Lore  :  THtrnsBS. — I  pointed  ont  that 
when  thunder  is  heard  the  Greeks  of  Aida  Minor 
say  tbe  AlmiKhty  is  moving  his  boxes— that  i^ 
furniture.  I  find  that  our  forefathers*  attributed 
thunder  to  tbe  god  Thui  pl&ying  at  ninepins. 

Hide  Clabeb. 

As  ASOIBHT  COBTOH. — 

K'mg  David,  B.C.  lOlS. 

•'  Now  the  children  of  Israel  after  their  nnmber,  i*  aiit^ 
the  chief  fathara  and  captaina  of  Ihoaaands  and  handrvda. 
aad  their  officers  that  served  the  king  in  sny  matter  of 
Ilia  courses,  which  came  in  and  went  out  month  by 
month  throaghout  all  the  months  of  the  year." — 1  Ckrvm. 
xivii.  1, 

Qattn  Ftcforu.  A.D.  1871. 

"The  eeotee  of  wait)  of  Her  Htjes^'s  hoaadiold  for 
tbe  month  of  March,  aod  tha  dates  on  wbich  tha  datiaa 
commence  are  as  foltows : — Lady  of  tha  B  '  ' 
DacheM  of  Koxbarghs,  7th.  Woman  of  tha  Bi 


"ttW^lc 


'*>3.vn.  MiTao,'71,] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


VbooonteH  Cbewtoo,  7th ;  Hod.  Mn.  Alexander  QoidoD, 
airi.  M>idiafHoaoiiT,HDii.LDeT  H.Eerr.Sth;  Hon. 
HonUa  C.  Stcpford.  9th.  Loidi  la  Wailing,  Lerd 
CaiiKij«,  Ttb ;  Lord  Methnen,  SlsL  Grooau  is  Waiting. 
Bear-Admiral  Lard  Frederick  Ksrr,  7th  g  Hajor-Genenl 
Sir  Francis  Sennoar,  Bait,  Slit  Eqnerriea,  Colonel 
C.  T.  Da  Flat,  Colonel  the  Earl  of  Uountchariea;  Pages 
of  Hooonr,  G.  W.  Gr^,  Eiq.,  Hon.  G.  F.  H.  Someiset." 
Ctart  Journal,  Harcb  i,  1871. 

It  is  highly  intereatiug  to  compue  the  monthlj 
coiUBes  coutuned  in  the  "  Qenenl  Rota  of  Walts 
of  Her  Majeetj'8  Household  for  the  Tear  1871 " 
with  the  courses  of  King  David's  household, 
"  which  came  in  and  went  out  month  1^  month/' 
as  recorded  in  the  27th  chapter  of  the  First  Book 
«f  ChroDicles.  Willi^K  Ratiteb. 

Mum,  OB  BsmiBwioK  Uuic,  a  stRona  Bexs. 
Ita  ehuiologT  is  gi»6n  in  1"  S.  iv.  177 ;  3**  S.  tL 
434,  603  i  nl  41,  101,  163,  with  Bxtiacts,',which 
do  not  include  the  following : — 

"  I  haTB  not  forgot  to  drink  ^oar  health  here  hi  mnin, 
which  I  think  vecy  veil  deservea  Its  npntation  of  bting 
the  beat  in  the  world."— Letter  from  Ladj  H.  W.  Hon- 
Uga,  dated  Bnuuwick,  Kor.  28,  0.3. 1716. 

W.P. 

A  CfuarwTOA.  Notb. — I  found  the  enclosed 
■mongst  some  old  Oxford  papers.  It  maj  be 
worth  finding  a  place  in  "N.  &  Q."        J.  B.  B, 

"The  Father  of  the  late  Dr.  Smith,  Master  of  Peln- 
brok*  GoU^e,  ns  ■  Captain  of  a  Ship.  His  original 
Name  via  OroKudl:  being  the  Orandson  of  Bichard 
Cromwell,  son  of  Oil  Ter.  He  changed  his  Name  to  5mitA, 
<x>nceivlng  it  probable  that  the  Name  of  CromtBtU  might 
ii^nra  Us  Promotion  in  the  Navy. 

■■  Dr-  Smith,  therefore,  was  the  last  Lineal  Desaeodant 
of  Oliver  CromwelL 

"Thia  Story  was  told  me  bv  M'  Dondas  oT  Richmond, 
whom  i  nut  at  Lord  Howe's,  fiorember  8",  1809. 

"  SCBOFB  BeKDHOBB, 

"  Warden  of  Merton." 

UniAa.— Midas  was  the  name  of  more  than  one 
long  of  Phiygia.  I  wish  to  point  out  that  this 
name  is  connected  with  the  Lydian  Medeus  ^God), 
Mid  as  these  languages  hare  been  traced  oy  me 
to  the  Palffiogeorgian  stock,  the  Georgian  Tsmida 
(■aaint^  holy)  may  also  be  aBaociaifid.  Midaa  is 
an  example  of  the  use  of  the  name  of  a  ^tA  as  a 
personal  name  or  title,  such  as  we  have  in  Baal, 
Melech,  and  Adonw.  The  Pht^gian  Balen,  for 
king  (fOso  represented  by  Updii  m  Georman)  is  a 
locu  instAQce.  Htsb  Clabxk. 

Attrrie^. 

Eussra  Abaii. — Will  some  one  kindly  infonn 
me  which  was  published  first — the  dream  by  T, 
Hood,  or  the  novel  by  Lord  Lytton  ?      Clahbt. 

[••  The  Dream"  bj  T.  Hood  was  published  in  1831,aDd 
Lord  Lftton's  norel  in  the  Sjllowing  year.] 

Adihob  wakibd. — Who  is  the  author  of  the 
following,  and  where  can  I  obtain  the  poem  con- 


"  Ifo  I  thoa  art  not  my  lint  lore, 
I  had  loT«d  before  we  met  i 

lomayet 

'  ~rt  my  last  lore. 


[iplessan 
t  tfaom  th 


~i_ 1  bnt  shed  its  oik».  ».» 

To  {ive  Ukse  all  the  rtat" 

IiAWB.  K  Thomas, 
Meroantile  library, 

Athanawim  Building,  BaltinaoTOi 

Tbokab  BAaKXBTiUB.— Can  I  be  refemd  to 
an  engraved  or  other  portrait  of  Thomas  Basker- 
viUe,  an  inventor,  circa  1760  P  Q.  0. 

Taa  Con  Fibhbbt  of  NEWFomiiLAmi,  Ann  an 
EirOLISH  COITTBHT  m  Fbahcb.— In 

"A  Sonunaiy,  Historical  and  PaliUcai,  of  the  First 
Planting,  Progressive  Improvements,  and  Present  State 
of  the  British  SettlemaoU  in  North  America.  By  Wil- 
liam Douglass,  U.D,"  Boston,  17«fi,  Svi^ 
this  cnriotis  statement  occurs  at  p.  287,  sect  vL 
voL  L  concerning  the  island  of  Newfoundland  and 
its  cod'fishery ; — 

"  King  Charlas.I.,  bubbled  by  the  Fiencb,  gave  them  a 
liberty  St  Ssliing  and  curing  flsh  in  Newfoandtand,  upon 
the  siliy  pretext  ^n^yljni^  in  fi^uA  CDRSEst »  fVaiKe 
mJifiM' 

I  will  be  very  thankful  for  the  name  of  this 
convent,  if  known.  D.  Bubkb, 

Teddiogtoa. 

"Comes  to  Gbikf."— When  did  this  expres- 
sion first  become  general  in  England  P    Brown- 
ing uses  it  in  his  new  poem  Mtrv4  SUl,  the 
scene  of  which  is  laid  in  1602,  thus — 
"  Not  a  spar  that  comes  to  grief." 

Is  the  expres^on  as  now  used  correct  English 
or  simply  along  F  K  A.  D. 

Dbvokbsibb  Wobds. — Can  you  give  any  ex- 
planation as  to  the  following  terms  in  common 
use  in  DevonshireP — Qome,  common  crockery; 
dotna  «hop,  crockery  shop ;  Mound,  a  hamper ; 
Seam,  of  haj,  S  cwt. ;  Seam,  of  etraw,  2  cwt. 
Hay  and  straw  are  commonly  sold  by  the"  seam" 
in  Devonshire,  and  not  by  the  cwt.  or  ton  aa 
elsewhere.  E  Oulboit. 

Tdb  Vbkb  "EhamottRbd." — Is  a  lover  enam- 
oured of  his  mistress  or  u/Uh  her  P  In  my  courting 
days  the  former  was  the  correct  phrase,  bnt  now 
the  latter  is  coming  into  use.  I  notice  it  in  the 
article  attributed  to  Mr.  Gladstone  in  the  last 
Editiintrsh  Rmitw.  H.  BuiB. 

Heibonine. 

Gboss  Eathto. — Is  the  following  extract  from 
a  letter  by  Gray  the  poet  a  joke  or  act  P — 

"Oar  Moid  Dr. (one  oT  its  I  Cambridge]  nois- 

anoe*)  ia  notaxpected  liereagua  In  a  harry.  He  is  gone 
to  lUs  grave  with  five  fine  mackerel  (large  and  tiSl  of 
roe)  in  his  belly.  He  ale  them  aU  at  one  dinner;  bnt 
bis  bre  was  a  tnrhot  on  Tti 
IsR  Uttle  for  the  company  U 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[V^a.TILIUTSfr.'/L 


b«an  bou^  aU  Oh  ndt;  bat  «ftw  tU*  itxth  fldi  be 

niTW  beld  ap  his  bead  nan.  aad  a  vidtat  looaencM 

curial  him  off.    Tb^  i^  bi  mad*  a  Terf  good  and." 

W.P. 

HooiH.— Gray,  tha  poet^  writug  1787,  aays  — 

"For  your  repoUtioD,  w«  k««p  to  ouwdvM  you  not 
bunting  nor  drinldng  lu^an,  aitbin  of  wUeh  hire  would 
b«  tofluknt  ID  laf  your  honoor  in  the  doat." 

What  was  the  drink  wc&lledP  W.  F. 

[Thu  qaaiy  appeared  in  oar  !■>  S.  iij.  450,  bat  elicited 
no  twpiv.  The  Mine  qootMlon  ia  gtnD  in  Saatbey'a 
Catiaoi-PlM*  Boot,  iii.  81,  to  vUeb  the  editor,  J.  W. 
Wartcr,  B.D^  has  added  the  toUoiring  not*  to  tbe  word 
Bo8«n;  "yoery?  Waa  tbla  in  the  original  MS,  of 
Qrmy  written  ftTWi '■••■«*.  •»)'■«*'"  Bntaooord- 
ine  to  Lord  Hacanlay  ^  >>'■  Biogniiliia,  p.  Si,  be  ipeaka 
of  (Mivet Goldsmith  having  l>e«n  "sent  in  Ui  aoTBiith year 
to  a  Tillage  edwd  kept  by  Ml  old  qaarttrniaeter  on  half- 
pay,  who  ptofMsed  to  tatch  ootbinK  bat  ntdiog,  writing, 
and  aritbinette,  bat  wbo  bad  an  loexhan*tU>le  flind  of 
atones  aboat   gbortu,  bawbees,  and  hlries,   aboot  the 

Seat  Bupana  dil**,  Baldeaif  O'Doanall  sod  psUqpiiag 
040%  eto*^' 

Of  "Galtoplng  Eogan,"  one  of  the  cbleb  of  tbe 
Iriab  BappaiB^  we  find  the  following  noticea  In  7S< 
lamartial  Hiitorf  of  tte  Wan  fa  Mtni,  by  Geoi^ 
Wonr.  We  read  at  p.  229,  under  the  date  Sept.  U,  1681, 
■■  Tbe  same  daj  we  had  an  aooonnt  that  Qaliaping 
Hogan,  a  Mow  that  bad  got  npwarda  of  one  hundred 
Bapporec*  together,  bona  and  foot,  and  got  madi  ^nndet 
by  robbing  (beSatlera  and  otberpeopletbatcama  intohU 
Dower,  he  WM  now  so  bold  u  to  aet  upon  ■  party  of  earn 
«"_,_•_ ,.  ...- ..^  litis  o,  X '  -'-■- 


earning  towards  the  camp  w 


bones,  tbougb  he 
chief* 

We  next  meat  with  Hogan  at  p,  270,  oD  Oct.  19  :— "  On 
tbe  19tb,  Hc«an  and  moat  of  hia  cnw  came  in  at  Bos- 
OTsagh,  and  had  tbe  benefit  of  the  prodnmation,  being 
allowed  twenty-foar  men  by  the  general  to  anppreas  other 
Bappareea  npon  occasion,  tbooKb  thi*  wis  mal  to  him, 
for  some  of  that  sort  of  peopls  mnrdeied  him  after- 

"KnjJiia  vo  Mdhuxb." — In  the  remaAable 
tnet  so  called,  I  find  towarda  the  end  an  ezprm- 
rion  which  reininda  one  of  Sterne's  auvi^  deag' 
nation  for  man's  animal  nature.  This  was  before 
Sterne,  and  is  probably  botli  mneh  older  and  by 
no  means  infrequent  in  literatnre.  Wilt  any  one 
with  learning  and  leiaure  think  it  worth  idiile  to 
hunt  it  up  F 

"We  have  all  oar  beast  within  ua,  and  wboaoerac 
(>aja  Ariatotle,  PiW.  ill.  o,  II)  is  governed  by  a  man 
withoat  law  is  govemed  by  a  man  snd  by  a  beut" 

The  term  employed  by  Steine  would  be  rery 
likely  to  occur  in  Vaa  producttooa  of  «om«  of  tbe 
burlesque  preachers  of  a  few  centuries  ago. 

Nemo. 

Mat-Dat  Cdstoil— It  was  the  cutom  at  Ox- 
ford a  generation  ago  for  little  boys  to  blow  bona 
about  the  etmeta  early  on  M^-day,  and  they  did 
it  for  the  purpose  of  "  calling  up  uie  old  maida." 
The  same  enstom  obtnined  m  this  old  town  of 
Lynn,  and  the  purpose  app  ears  to  have  been  the  same, 


fcr  I  ban  hMid  the  Terr  pbrwe, "  edUngnp  tt«  dd 
maids,"  used  amongst  the  boys  here  on  the  first  of 
this  present  May.  I  asked  as  agedlnhatdtaDt  hoir 
loDff  the  bocn-lilowing  had  ceased,  and  he  t«plwd 
"  Ever  riuee  the  Reform  Bill  oaina  in  " ;  but  that 
be  remembered  the  time  wttKi  tbe  vorkbooae 
children  were  let  ODt  for  May-day  e>riy  in  the 
morning  with  their  honu  and  gsrlandl^  and  « 
worthy  aldorman  i4om  he  named  always  kept 
open  honoe  on  that  day,  and  gave  tbem  a  good 
dinner.  "Calling  np  the  old  maida"  ialht%  I 
Gonolnde,  to  the  nutam  of  calling  np  ths  muds, 
whether  oU  «r  yonng,  to  go  a-maying.       QuiB. 

[Hay  bai  always  been  eoniudered  the  wwrlalt  «f 
months—"  the  lUreat  of  tlu  year."  The  enatom  of  boni- 
tdowing  ia  thus  netiaed  by  wortby  Tom  Heame  In  hb 
pnfaeeto  Bobert  ofGloaoMtCT's  CKrainele,  p,  M :  ■"Tb 
-  — *-  -■— *--  ■■-- DpentbeJoUltiMsf  tbaflntvf 
of  bio*'      -■■■      -■  " 


Hay  (6 


[iy.thecn 


•r  blowing  Willi,  aad  driaUag 


„ , of  bh>wl ,.__ 

TiiU  at  tbia  season,  even  to  this  ia^,  at  Oxford,  to  re- 
mind people  of  the  pleaaantnesa  of  that  part  of  tbe  rear." 
Anbn?  has  tbla  memormdam  in  hia  AaHtu  of  Gm- 
lilirrot  and  JmSaiaw,  US.  LAnad.  266,  p.  S. :  "At  Oxford 
Um  boya  da  blow  cowa*  boms  and  hollow  ea»a  afl  ai^t  t 
aod  on  Maj-day  the  young  maid*  of  every  pariah  cany 
about  gnilaods  of  flowan,  which  allerwards  tliay  hang 
np  in  (hdr  churcbca."  At  Newctatle-upon-Tyne,  too,  it 
waa  fonneriy  ustut  on  May  momiBgi  for  tbe  yoang  girls 
to  sing  tbeee  Iuks  In  the  atreeta,  at  tbe  same  tlaw  acatlBr- 
Ing  flowen : — 

"  Hiae'up  roaldeni,  fle  for  (hmnB ! 
For  I've  tiean  tbnr  long  miles  from  honu^ 
I've  been  gathering  m;  i;arlands  gar. 
Rise  up,  fair  maids,  and  cake  in  your  Hay."] 

PuBiTAN  CHAsan  07  Naxbb. — A  note  in 
Hume's  Hatory  of  BngloKd  (vii.  330,  ed.  1791) 
says,  speaking  of  tne  Commonwealth,  that — 

"  It  was  nsuii  tat  the  pretended  aalnta  at  that  time  to 
diaage  tbeir  names  fVom  Heniy,  Edward,  Anthony,  Wil- 
liam, which  they  regaided  u  hia  Ibenlsh.  Into  otherl  mar* 

aaoctiflad  and  godly Hen  aie  the  name*  of  a 

jaiy  aaid  to  be  endoeed  in  tiie  county  <i  Saaaex  about 
tliie  time." 

The  names  I  need  not  repeat,  as  they  are  fiuni- 
liar  to  most  of  us.  The  list  is  quoted  from 
Brome's  TrmOt  m  JBHgiand,  p.  27»— »  book  to 
which  I  have  not  access  here ;  but  mrdy  m  mtj 
safely  come  to  the  conclusion,  withotrt  TOi^ring 
tbe  passage,  that  these  eighteen  wonderful  name* 
are  either  a  forgery  or  a  joke.  I  am  anxious  t^i 
know  what  cont«npomry  authority  there  is  for  the 
statement  in  the  early  part  of  the  note.  I  know 
modem  writers  hare  repeated  the  aama  tUag 
over  snd  over  again,  awl  that  nonliita  havo 
ranaacked  their  imaginations  to  find  chaMOtoiislie 
names  for  their  Pmitan  obaracten,  bat  I  ia  not 


)  to  believe  that  stianga  Christian  ■ 

■  1   those   days    J' 


4*  8.  VII.  Hat  so,  TI.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


WbU  pusagea  hwe  we  on  thia  aabtect  in  the 
vorka  of  tbo  Bsatoration  plajwiighta  r 

Edwasd  Psaooox. 
BottMftrd  Manor,  Brig);. 

Oir  XHX  AsHKirci  of  ast  Fkbnoe  Wobd  job. 
"»  RiDB," — There  is  no  one  word  in  Frencli 
wlaeb  connotes  the  aotion  of  riding  on  horsft- 
haek.  Monl«r  aignifies  the  action  c^  mounting  on 
honeback,  but  Iwdlj  of  t^e  contiououH  action  of 
riding.  To  express  this  the  French  sav  elrt  or 
attar,  ox  teptomtiur,  d  dimal :  tikis  properlj  means 
riding  for  amusement  la  this  the  reaeon  that 
Frenchmen  genetallj  decline  to  ride  with  the 
hounds,  because  they  can  onl;  "se  promener  4 
cheval "  F  just  as  thej  are  too  volatile  to  continue 
the  aotion  of  atuduig,  and  so  haye  no  woxd  to  ex- 

pMM  it.  R  L.  fiLSHKINaOPF. 

Spriactbsrpe  Beoioiy. 

"  KonsHB," — When  was  this  word  flint  used  to 
dengnate  the  scum  of  the  people,  the  "  dangerous 
clasMa,"  the  rtmduum,  hs  Mr.  Bright  called  them  F 
The  word  was  wanted  as  being  more  spedfic  than 
mob.  In  a  mob  there  usuall;  is  a  proportion  of 
rou^^,  but  a  mob  maj  be  simplj  a  motlej  col- 
lection of  turi^uleut,  noiay,  but  still  honest,  people; 
it  need  not  necessarily  m  composed  of  roughs  nor 
even  compiise  anv. 

Is  not  the  word  a  mere  abbreviation  of  ruffian*, 
«nd  eboold  we  not  write  rvf»  T  I  fancy  I  first 
saw  the  word  "  roBgha  "  in  pnnt  duiiag  tlw  turbu- 
lent period  of  the  eleetions  that  followed  the 
aist  Reform  Bill,  about  1833  or  1834. 

The  fbUowing  is  from  the  recently  published 
Zf^^  of  BarJtam.  In  a  poetical  invitfttion  \o  Di. 
Hanie  (Nor.  4, 1837)  be  saya  :— 

"  Tho^l  ba  loU  of  new  poIlMmen 


"lei 


rCbulM  Dicknu  o' 


otfect 


th«  eiiphottioiu  ftOftenlDg 


in  to  atroDK  an 
„  of  nffinlnU 
Ttimgk,  which  haa  lately  beeoma  popular,  that  I  raatocs 
the  tigfat  word  to  tha  beadinir  of  this  papar."  —  Tlu 
JIhAb,  (y  tht  UncotnmtKiat  Trm^tr,  Ail  111*  Ttar 
Soiiid,  Oct.  10,  186S.  Dr.  Motley,  hovaver.  In  hia 
Vnittd  Kaherliaxli,  It.  188,  ascribea  Ita  nae  Co  Queen 
Elizabeth  in  her  latt  iUaaaa :  ■■  Tba  graat  queen,  moody, 
dcspalrinKi  dyiog,  vrapt  in  proloundest  thoogbt,  with 
eye*  fixed  upon  tbe  ground  or  already  gazing  into  io- 
fini^,  was  besaoght  bj  the  oouiaellora  around  hsr  to 
name  Uu  nun  to  whom  ahe  choaa  that  the  crown  should 
~  )t  to  a  nwgA,'  laid  Elisabeth  aeatantlondy 
Dr.  Hotlay  adda  tn  a  BMa,  ainaraBtly 
..  », — . —  « ..,.    .u-t  (t,  ^^ 


ri2?^ 


THXSnmJUvTzSAn.— In  TV  TVmcsof  Uay  6, 
1B71,  p.  9,  caI.  fi,  we  read— 

"There  Is  too  nnsh  reaaeu  in  the  ooutaation  of  Hr. 
OiUdai^  erttka  that  ba  aStetad  tha  i^  cf  gardMring; 


The  switching  it,  I  think,  first  told  in  Greek 
writere  by  Heradotus  (v.  93)  of  Thrasybulus, 
repeated  by  Aristotle  (Pai.  iii.  18, 17,  ed.  Eaton) 
of  Feriander,  and  by  livy  (i.  64)  and  Ovid  (Fatlt, 
ii.  701)  of  Tarquiitius  Supetbua.  The  edition  of 
thei^WMis  to  which  I  have  referred  above  gives 
no  reference  to  any  Sicilian  tyrant  Waa  tbe. 
"  Thunderer  "  contusing  the  story  told  of  F!h»- 
kris  with  those  of  the  other  tynnta  to  whom  the 
"switching"  is  commonly  ascribed P  or  is  there 
any  Sicilian  legend  of  tbe  kind  ?        A  Sxctdbkz, 

TEinirsoNiAMA.— Can  any  of  your  correspond- 
ents tell  me  the  meaning  of  these  two  passages  in 
Tennyson,  iVMcui  t— 

"  Those  moDstioiia  males  that  cam  the  livias  bound. 
And  cram  him  with  the  fragmeata  of  the  grave." 

iiLSSB. 
[See«N.&Q."*-aB.T.ll8.] 
"  She  that  tanght  the  Sabine  how  to  rate."— ti.  6S. 

T.M. 
[There  appears  to  be  an  allDsfon  In  tills  line  to  Knma 
Fompillni,  the  second  king  of  Bom^  whoaa  name  repra- 
senta  (he  tide  «f  law  and  order,  Tlte  nnirersal  tradition 
of  tha  SaUna  origin  of  Nnma  Intliaataa  that  tbe  Bonana 
moat  have  derived  a  gnat  pertlon  of  thdr  rdlgiona  sys- 
tem fnun  the  Sabinea,  rather  than  friun  the  Etniaoaa^  as 
Is  commooly  believed.— Smith's  DicHanary  at  Gritk  imd 
Bomiat  Biegrafliy,  U.  ISIS.] 

"Thb  Bothood  at  St  Thovas  Vrniimm 
{tie),  Bartohimd  Eateban  MnriUo,  No.  SCe.  Sent 
hj  Lord  Aahbnrtcm"  (twfe  Oal»]o)rue  of  the  late 
Exhibition  of  Old  Matters).  What  were  the 
adrenturee  of  this  particular  St  Thomna,  the 
second  half  of  whoM  name  has  been,  I  am  apt  to 
think,  misspelled  in  the  catalogue  F 

NOIU  lUnKOLIFTE. 
[An  excetknt  aeewnt  of  St.  Thomas  of  THIaDOva, 
Aicbbiabop  of  Valantia,  will  ba  foand  in  AHmn  Bntlai'B 
Ziaat  ufA*  SoKti,  SapL  18.1 

VoLTAiHiiHA.— In  tbe* "Denunciation  to  tbo 
Pnr1]Hment"oftheKehl|odition  of  Voltaire's  works 
(1781)  there  are  one  or  two  allusions  which  I  do 
not  understand : — 

Uan  who  are  avariciona  ratber  than  malicioaa  bad 
diacovered  in  a  plsnt  which  waa  alrooat  unknown  a 
fatal  Tlitee  for  enabling  eitizou  to  be  aent  to  alaep  and 

robbed Yon  tbonght  yon  oagfat  to  nnnjab  the 

flrat  attaaipta  by  ehaitlaanignt  saOd^tly  rigoiona  to 
inepln  a  HdntaTy  terrar." 

What  does  thia  refer  to  P  Also,  where  can  I 
And  an  account  of  the  young  man  of  Abbeville 
who  was  condemned  to  death  for  "blasphemies 
and  dimes  "  engendered  by  reading  Voltaire  P  I 
quote  from  a  tnuulation,  as  I  have  never  seen  the 
ori^al.  C.  Eluoi  BKOwm.! 


*  The  Hallo  ■■ 


■'^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*»8.Tn.lUTM,Tl. 


BAEEEB  AND  BXmFORD'3  PAKORAUAS. 
(4'»  S.  TU.  279.) 

la  Kply  to  Mb.  Nobkas'b  general  qoeries  ftbont 
HiB  Leiceotei  Sqnom  Fanotamu,  I  sbonld  like  to 
My  a  few  words.  Henry  Aston  B«uler  married  a 
daughter  of  Admiial  Bhgh  of  the  "Bounty,"  with 
wbom  my  family  were  very  intimate.  I  dia- 
tjnctly  remember  going  to  West  Square,  South- 
wark,  where  Mr.  Barker  liTed,  and  seeing  him 
in  hia  wooden  rotunda  behind  the  hotue,  and 
mounted  on  a  moreable  scaffolding,  painting 
"SpitibeTg:en"DTerthe"BattleofWaterloo."  ae 
waa  then,  with  his  long  brush,  obliteiatdns  a 
charge  of  cuiraaaien  with  icebergs  and  wEite 
bean  that  ^uite  chilled  you  to  look  at  This  was 
probably  in  1817,  when  I  was  four  years  old; 
but  I  also  distinctly  remember  "Athens"  in 
Lucester  Square— the  Acropolis  and  the  beaaUful 
atmovphere.  As  the  canvas  of  "  Waterloo  "  was 
used  as  I  say,  is  it  not  probable  that  Idr.  Barker 
was  the  punter  of  the  great  battle  f  I  am  tempted 
to  go  on  about  Admiral  Blish. 

At  an  even  earlier  date  tntm  that  named,  I  was 
sent  with  my  norse  ^who  still  lives  with  my 
ftmily)  to  Btay  atFarmngbara,  where  the  admind 
lived ;  and  he  used  to  taJie  me  on  bis  knee,  and 
let  me  play  with  the  bullet  that  was  strung  on  a 
blue  ribbon  round  his  neck,  and  had  been  the 


boat  voyage  of  4,000  miles.  Bligh  -« 
man  with  a  has^  temper.  He  sat  in  a  library 
walled  with  boolra,  and  the  house  bad  sea  cnn- 
outies  which  he  had  collected  for  Mrs.  Bligh. 
It  was  asked  who  she  was  in  an  early  number  of 
"N.  &  Q."  C2-'S.  ii.411)i  but  no  ansvrer  has 
been  ^ven,  I  believe.  I  have  heard  the  following 
romantic  story,  but  without  names. 

Mta.  Bligh  was  the  daughter  of  a  literair  man 
vho  waa  associated  vith  Adam  Smith  m  his 
vmtin^  on  political  economy,  &c  The  cause  of 
bis  retirement  to  Scotland  was  thus  narrated :  — 
As  a  youth  he  had  been  with  a  private  tutor,  a 
demman  j  and  Lord  S.  (Sandwich  P)  waa  a  fellow 
pupiL  The  vonng  nobleman  fell  in  We  with  the 
bitor's  daughter,  and  was  consequentlv  removed 
by  his  rolationfl ;  but  the  lovers  agreea  to  corre- 
spond, and  the  pupil  who  remained  was  to  be  the 
medium  of  communication.  Being  however  a 
rival,  he  stopped  the  letters  on  both  sides,  per- 
suading the  writers  that  they  were  faithless  to 
each  other,  and  so  succeeded  at  last  in  winning 
the  lady  for  himsolt  I  have  been  told  that  Mrs. 
Bligh,  who  was  an  intimate  friend  of  my  mother, 
waa  the  only  issue  of  this  unhappy  marriage.  Can 
•nyone  clear  or  gunsMr  this  tiadition  ? 

The  admiral  was  a  Cornish  mwi,  and  had  a  scar 


on  his  cheek.  Oeorae  IIL  asked  him,  at  aZev^u 
what  action  be  had  mwi  wounded;  and  made  him 
tell  the  story  that  when  a  boj,  he  was  helping  bis 
fkther  to  catch  a  horse  in  their  orchard  wnen  the 
father  threw  a  small  hatchet  to  tun  the  animal,  and 
unwittingly  abruck  hia  son.  Ladj  O'Coondl,  one 
of  the  admiral's  daughters,  was  a  person  of  gresC 
spirit,  and  defended  her  father  with  a  pistol 
against  rebels  during  hia  govemorshii)  of  Taa 
Diemen's  "Idrnd.  Frances  and  Jane  Bligh  wero- 
twins.  Ann  was  a  beauty,  but  mentally  afflicted. 
The  admiral  waa  a  severe  martinet,  even  at  home  ; 
and  not  a  little  was  ha  angered  at  finding  hia 
daughters  pursued  from  church  by  a  stnager, 
who  had  been  told,  in  answer  to  his  advertisemeoii 
for  a  wife,  to  appear  blowing  his  noae  in  the  aisle 
of  Farningham  church,  where  a  lady  favourable 
to  his  views  would  be  present  Hie  ladies,  nnabl* 
to  repress  their  langhtv,  betrayed  themselves; 
and  their  father  gave  both  them  and  their  dnpfr 
some  very  emphatic  btoadaidee  firam  his  eaaU; 
ezdted  ton^e. 

Perhaps  I  have  gone  bevond  my  brief  in  thesa 
memoranda ;  but  "Bounty  Bligh  was  a  man  for 
our  naval  country  to  be  proud  of  Asanavigator^ 
shown  in  his  conduct  of^the  great  boat  voyage  in 
the  Pacific,  he  may  be  called,  like  Nelaon  — 

•>  Thi  grtaXest  uilor  lince  oar  world  b<f[an.' 

Alfkbd  Gatxt,  D.r. 

IW»  are  aln  indebted  to  the  Kbt.  H.  T.  Eluoombv 

toi  ■  refcKoca  to  an  iotenstlng  mtiee  of  Heniy  Amod 

Barker,  Eh|„  which  appesrad  tn  tha  GntlemoM't  Maga- 

am  for  October,  1866.— Ed.] 

I  saw  in  England,  many  years  ago,  two  laige 
panoramas  which  I  do  not  find  on  this  list.  Were 
they  not  by  these  artists  P  The  <»ie  in  Lueestei 
Square  (anno  1821)  was  trul^  a  goTKeous  and  a 
Oeoryitu  afiair,  "  Tue  Coronation  of  Qeor^  IV." ; 
whereas  that  of  King  William  lY.  (the  Befonn 
SiS),  which  I  witoeesed  in  Westminstw  Abbe; 
in  1831,  was,  as  "  H  B."  facetiously  termed  it  in 
one  of  his  clever  caricatures,  "  A  Sa^-croum- 
ation."  The  other  panorama  I  saw  in  Uveipool 
'    1823-4  waa  "  The  Storming  of  Serin^atai    " 


and  death  of  Tippoo-Saheb. 


•rA.  L. 


WILLIAM  BALIOL. 
(4*  S.  viL  302.) 
John  Baliol  had  no  brother  named  WHUam. 
The  competitor  was  the  youngest  son  of  DevargiUa, 
and  his  three  elder  brothers — Hugh,  Alan,  and 
Alexander — all  died  childless  before  he  claimed 
the  throne  of  Scotland.  There  is  a  prettiy  good 
peiUgree  of  the  Balliola  in  Robertson^  Ayn/im 
Families,  vol.  i.,  and  of  their  Medeoessors.  the  De 
Morvillea,  in  vol.  ii.  A  Sir  WilUam  Balliol  was 
one  of  the  seven  Scots  commisaioneis  to  FVance 
in  1303.    (Hailes' ..Innab.)    Whether  he  was  the 


•  S.  Til.  Mat  20,  Tl.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


mnoDii 


D  mentioned  bj  J.  B,  S.  as  buried  at  Cantei- 

bui;,  OT  William  B«lliol  (or  BailUe)  of  HopriK 
and  Femton  in  East  Lothian,  it  mftj  be  difficult 
to  8AT.  The  latter  pereouage,  vho  ia  taid  to  have 
mamed  a  dangbter  of  the  patriot  WrUbco,  was 
the  anceator  of  the  Bulliea  of  LamiD^ttm  in 
Clydesdale,  when  thej  hare  flourished  for  five 
hundred  jeara.  He  is  coniectuied  bj  the  con- 
Unnator  of  Nisbet'e  Seraidry  to  have  been  the 
second  aon  of  Sir  Alexander  Balliol  of  Cavers,  a 
eoilattrai  relative  of  the  king  of  Scots.  The  oame 
authority  states  that  Sir  Alexander  of  Cavera 
married  Isabel,  heiressof  RioharddeCbilham,  and 
widow  of  David  de  Strabolgi,  Earl  of  Athol.  If 
thia  be  correct,  it  is  curious  that  this  lady,  who 
died  in  120S,  lies  buried  in  the  east  crjrpt  of  Can- 
terbury cathedral,  where  I  have  seen  oer  effigy. 
Her  estate  of  ChiUuun  is  within  a  short  distance 
of  that  dtT.  If  William  BaUiol  was  her  son, 
there  woulo  be  no  unlikelihood  in  his  being  also 
buried  Ihtre,  as  stated  by  Weever.  Though  in 
the  EeT.  Mackenue  Walcott's  MemoriaU  ofCart- 
terbwy  I  obserre  no  notice  of  any  monastery  of 
White  Friars  Observants.  The  truth  ia,  that 
Uiere  is  a  good  deal  of  obscurity  about  the  close 
of  the  Scottish  career  of  this  great  family.  The 
mmama  does  not  seem  to  have  been  proscribed, 
for  a  Kr  Henry  de  Balliol  had  s  grant  of  Branx- 
holme  in  Roiourghehire  &om  Robert  Bruce  him- 
self (Robertson's  Index),  and  Thomas  de  Balliol 
held  lands  in  the  same  county  till  the  close  of 
David  Brace's  reign.  Yet  their  French  s^gneury 
of  Bidlleul,  at  this  very  dste,  was  obtunea  by  a 
female  descendant  of  Radulphus  de  Coucy.  (See 
Lite*  of  th»  Imdtayi,  vol.  i.  p.  83.)  And  the 
Scottish  Bailliea  have  never  been  able  to  explain 
why  their  arms  are  so  difierent  from  those  of  the 
BaUiols— tiie  former  bdng  nine  stars,  the  latter 
an  orle— though  complaiatot  Kenealogiets  have 
done  their  best  to  find  a  resemhlance,  or  account 
for  the  discrepancy.  AKGLO-Scorns. 

Three  pedigrees  of  the  Baliol  family  are  ftiven 
in  The  Potricion,  edited  by  John  Burke,  1847,  iii, 
174,  266,  425.  In  two  of  them  Sir  William 
Kiliol  le  Scot  is  mentioned  as  the  youngest  brother 
of  John,  King  of  Scotland.  It  is  slso  stated  that 
"  Sir  WiUiam  was  buried  at  the  White  fViars 
Obeervaat  at  Canterbury,  mentioned  by  Phil^t 
in  Weever,  and  died  about  1311."  The  authority 
adduced  for  making  Sir  William  le  Scot  the 
younger  brother  of  the  King  of  Scotland  is  the 
Addit.  HS.  5620,  fol.  188,  which  purports  to  be 
"the  true  descent  and  lineage  of  ue  ancient  and 
knightly  femity  of  Scot  descended  flrom  the  nabla 
family  of  Bafaol,  kUas  le  Scot,  of  the  kingdom  of 
Scotland."  Consult  also  Hasted's  KaU,  17W.  iu. 
399,  293 ;  but  his  name  does  not  ajfteai  in  Dog- 
dale's  Banmt^t,  or  Douglas's  Pterogt.         J,  Y. 


"  Scot's  Hill,  tha  ancient  seat  of  the  Scots,  ■  ftmlly 
<rar«auDg  descoDt  fVom  WlllUm  da  Balliol,  la  Scot" — 
iamj'a  Himdbaok  tffKati,  p.  183. 

"  Soolt'a  Hall,  irhoae  foanders,  tha  Scotta,  are  thoosht 
a  ba  daacanded  ftoa  the  Scottish  kiuga."— MackU's  ^- 
trieal  Aeeomt  of  fbUadw  oud  if  Tftigkbotrhood, 
P.19t. 

In  a  foot-Qota  to  Fuller's  WortMei,  reference  ii 
made  to  a  ballad  on  the  Scotte  in  Pete's  Detidt- 
rata  Cvvtta  and  in  I*«  World. 

Braboume  chnrch,  in  Kenti  contuns  memoriali 
of  the  Scott  family  as  early  as  1433.        B.  J.  F. 


THE  SWAN  SONG  OF  PABSOX  ATEBT. 
(4*  S.  vi.  498  i  vii  20, 148,  288.) 

The  following  notices  of  persons  of  the  nsme 
of  Avery  who  flourished  in  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury may  be  interesting  to  Ma.  Whituqeb  and 
others: — 

Avery,  Amos.  Commisdoner  for  [Berkshire  for 
the  assessment  of  sixty  thousand  pounds  per 
month,  1666.  (ScobeU,  Acts  md  OrdmmcM, 
ii.403.) 

Avery,  Arnold.  Justice  of  Pesce  for  Berkshire, 
1650.  {yamet  o/JiutieM  of  Fewx  ,  .  .  Uichatt- 
tnat  Termt,  1660,  Svo,  1660,  p.  G.) 

Avery,  Henty.  Soldier  serving  in  Ireland  in 
1664.  (Gml.  Mag.  1863,  ii.  706.) 

Avery,  Joseph.  Petition  for  eiaminatioo  of  his 
accounts,  and  payment  of  13,000t,  1660.  Had 
been  resident  for  Charles  I.  in  Denmark,  Sweden, 
and  Germany  for  twenty  years,  during  which 
time  he  chiefly  paid  his  own  expensea.  Lost  an 
estate  of  SOOOi.,  and  the  post  of  deputy-governor 
of  the  Merchant  Adventurers'  Company  at  Ham- 
burg, worth  400(.  o-year.  (CW.  Stat.  htp.  Dom. 
1660-1661,  p.  206,) 

Avery,  Robert.  A  Royaliat  officer  during;  the 
civil  war.  {A  lAtt  of  Offictrt  claiming  tht  Sixty 
Thtnuand  Pounds  granted  by  hit  Sacred  Mai.  for 
the  JteUef  of  hit  truly  Loyal  and  Indigent  Party, 
4to,  1661  [The  list  probably  gives  this  persons 
county  snd  the  colonel  nndei  whom  he  served. 
I  have  only  a  memorandum,  not  the  list  itself  to 
refer  to]. 

Avery,  Samuel.  Alderman  of  the  City  of  Lon- 
don. ALP.  for  London  in  the  parliament  of  1664, 
(Rushworth,  J/wt  ColL  part  n.  p.  834;  part  m. 
p.  162 ;  part  IV.,  vol.  i,  pp.  180, 181, 373,  Scobell, 
Actt  md  Ord.  99.  Commoiu  Journal*,  iii.  39S; 
iv.  879.  Cat.  of  Namm  of  meh  at  were  tui 
to  any  Pari  from  1640,  8vo,  1661,  p.  34.) 

Edwaru  Pucock. 

Bolteaford  Maoor,  Brigg> 

I  am  much  indebted  to  Mb.  Maoleax  end  Mb, 
Whtikokx  for  the  infoimatjon  given  me  respect- 
ing the  probable  ancestry  of  the  Averys  of  New- 
bnij,  Berks.    That  the?  were  not  of  the  same 


434 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[tik8.Tn.ltAv  10,71. 


■to^  nHk  WilHom  AreiT,  n  ph^ueuo,  who  Bat- 
tled at  Bedhain,  Uug^  it  evideut  ttota  tlie 
difierence  of  theii  respectiTe  eokta  of  urns:  Dr. 
A-Tory'i  dwcandonU  twuiog  a  cAatro>  betweaa 
tbna  bezants  (Bnike  »tm  it  a  fwH)i  and  the 
AvarjB  of  Newbun,  Beiko,  the  some  arna  •« 
Arerj  of  Warwick^n,  "  f^mitie  on  b  pale  en- 
gniled  aiure,  three  liont'  heads  oouped  or."  I 
regret  that  I  have  no  ohanoQ  of  »TMniniiig  New- 
buTj  registen,  and  thence  collectum  an;  ^bable 
aDoeatry  of  Panon  Averj,  apedally  auch  aa  would 
establish  his  cousinsbip  with  Anthony  Thatcher. 
I  have  a  few  baptdsms  between  1666  and  1693,  and 
a  memorandum  that  in  1697  Benjamin  Aveir, 
Richard  Avery,  and  Timothy  Avery  wera  sub- 
acribera  to  the  Presbyterian  meeting  there.  If 
the  arms  of  the  leapective  families  are  correcil; 
borne  they  are  not  identical  with  the  American 
Averys;  but  in  those  days,  as  now,  the  practice 
douNleas  prevailed  of  "  send  your  name,  and  your 
aims  shall  be  sent  in  return,"  it  being  a  very 

~ uxor  that  every  name  Am  arms,  and  the 

Wm.  Areiy,  of  Congnsbary,  c 


»«(lldBi,« 


ool^  thing  iwedf qI  k  to  null 
oi  idioe,  treated  as  a  tight. 

The  Avaiys  of  Oomwall  in  all  MobaUlHr 
deaeoid  from  a  «OBmea  ■ncMtor  with  Smqo« 
Aveiy,  a  somewhat  coBSj^aioas  daraoter  in  the 
troublesome  tioiee  of  (Aarles  L    Bis  pedigK*  k 

S'ren  in  the  Visitalioa  of  Somenet  (Harieiaii 
3.  1141),  and  is  at  under — the  Suaual  Avanr 
of  London,  metcbant,  bdng  no  doubt  the  Aeriff 
of  1847,  and  the  Alderman  Aver^  who  iraned 
in  praclaiming  the  Act  tar  aboliahing  Liiigly 
(^vemment,  May  30,  1049.  He  was  comnw- 
iioner  for  sundry  City  ordinances  about  lOAS, 
and  the  State  Paoer  Office  cimtaiiis  letters  from 
him  dated  from  Hamburg,  and  addressed  to  LiMd 
Digbve  and  Sir  Thomas  Bawe,  Jan.  13,  164}. 
Furtner  notioea  of  him  are  fbund  in  Bix's  Fatt- 
oomlMrge  Memontd,  p.  16.  The  pedigree  it  at 
follows : — 

Arms :  A  chevron  between  thiee  aimuleta  (<x 
beianls  P)  quartarkw  aaure  a  ram'a  head  calxMaad 
ar.  attired  or,  Dtrnfordt 

a,  dan.  sod  heir  of  Irish  of  Cbngretboty. 


J 

0.  Soaianet  —  Dontlby,  dan.  af  Hugh  WhJtoombt,  of  Sbubom,  oe.  D 


Ba^Muia   Jon^  AvgT7vFraDeN,daa.of    Ghriitiao,  wife  to 
of  London,        —  Dsadaa  of  John  Iriih,  of 

LoBdon.  TaltoD,  oo. 


Hanaah,  wife  to    Samud  Araty  =  Uiraballa,  dau. 
Edmd.  Hobbs,  of  London,      J   of — Bwmet. 

of  Coagntbaij.        menbaat,     | 


Ksthcrine,  agad  3, 16S3. 


I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  corresponding  with 
a  clergyman  in  Cornwall,  holding  prefenaent  in 
the  county,  of  the  name  of  Avery,  who  informed 
me  that  the  name  is  not  bd  uncommon  one  in 
particular  localities,  though  he  was  not  able  to 
form  on    opinion  as  to    their   connection  with 


The  last-named  family  had  a  descendfuit,  the  Rev. 
Joseph  Avery,  Vicar  of  Kiiby  near  Colchestw, 


EWx.  from  1688  to  1736.  It  is  not  improbable 
that  tne  original  grant  of  anne  to  Avery  of  War- 
wickshire has  been  mixed  with  doenmenta  m1»- 
dve  to  Essex  property,  and  has  thus  come  by 
purchase  into  the  bands  of  your  correroondent^ 
They  ore  precisely  the  annt  boma  by  Kcbaid 
Avery  of  the  Newbury  family,  as  engraved  for  a 
book-plate  nearly  180  years  ^o.  £.  W. 


THE  COMPLETIOS  OF  ST.  PADL*S. 
(4*  S.  vi.  pasiim  ;  vii.  185, 241,  a44,  390.) 
Ms.  FsRatJSSOH  may  have  satisfied  himself 
that  Sb  Christopher  Wren  cieatod  "  one  of  the 
great  defects  of  St.  Paul's  "  in  that  he  made  "  the 
four  great  arches  of  the  dome  all  alike,"  hut  I 
venture  to  think  that  he  will  find  few  men  who 
have  Bn^  real  respect  for  Sir  Cfaiistopher  to 
^ree  with  him,  and  that  the  other  very  posi- 
tively expr&ed  views  in  his  letter,  as  to  the 
work*  which  ought  to  be  don<^  on  at  iitUe  d*- 
aarving  of  acceptance. 

I  have  not  seen  the  Saerittn  <a  the  article  on 


SL  Paul'a  by  Mbssbs.  Soxebs  Clabxz  ood 
MiCKLKiHWAiiB  J  but  it  is  somewhat  ranarkahle 
that  shortly  before  its  a{qwarance  I  had  expreaaed 
to  several  persons  my  very  strong  objections  to 
what  I  was  infonned  were  the  iuteutions  of  the 
oammittco ;  and  one  of  them  having  aaked  me  to 
put  my  views  on  paper,  I  wrote  the  lettw,  of 
which  I  enclose  a  copy,  to  Mi.  Richmond/ by 
whom  it  was  hud  before  the  committee.  This 
letter,  which  advocated,  as  I  gather,  vary  nearly 
the  aame  ooune  as  that  suggested  in  the  Saerufy, 
is  at  any  nte  evid»ice,  T  hope,  that  a  couiw 
which  is  snggeated  from  various  quortsji^  in  this 
independent  way,  has  not  been  advocatad  vritbxit 


iaB.TlLUAX»),71.] 


NOTES  AMD  QUERIES. 


436 


iMtter  gnnndB  tbka  Ub.  Femuwos  aoomi  to  be 
prepared  to  admit 

&atb  mT  letter  to  Mr.  Bicbmoad  waa  wiitteo 
and  prioted  (by  directioii  of  the  St.  Paul'a  com- 
mittee), the  deciaion  aa  to  the  artaagement  of  the 
organ  baa  been  annoimced.  In  a  few  worda,  that 
deouatm  involvea  an  abaolute  violation  of  Sir 
Cbriatopber  Wren's  omi  work,  withont  an;  kind 
of  neeeaai^.  And  this  singular  fatalitj  aeems  to 
attand  all  the  works  executed  for  the  completion 
of  SL  Faol'e.  The  works  already  done  have  been 
eonfeeaedtj  a  series  of  mistakes — costlj,  but  com- 
pMe.  Thej  are  now,  all  of  Umbi,  to  be  nndoDe; 
bat  in  their  place  anotbet  miatake,  coail;  and  nn- 
neceaaaij,  ia  to  be  perpetiated.  The  otsan  is  to 
bn  pQt  iMck  OD  to  n  screeo  between  the  enoir  and 
the  dome,  not  after  Sir  Cbriatopber  Wren's 
dengn  or  accordinr  to  anj  scheme  which  he  ap- 
prOTed,  bnt  after  na  Ais  country)  a  new  fangled 
plan,  which,  in  spite  of  its.  Fbroussoh's  certifl- 
cats  that  it  will  "perfectly  remedy"  "the  de- 
fecta"  of  Sir  Christopher  Wren's  work,  will,  in 
my  opinion,  ven'  greatly  damage  what  I  conceive 
to  be  one  of  ita  oeauUea. 

If  Mb.  FKtaiTssoK  or  the  committee  wonld  ask 
their  organ-builder  for  hi*  plain  advice,  untram- 
melled by  the  opinions  of  the  musical  committee 
of  twelve,  I  undertake  to  say  that  it  would  be 
decidedly  to  replace  the  organ  in  its  old  position 
on  the  screen,  and  to  put  such  additicmal  pipes.  See. 
as  are  nquired  under  the  western  arches  on  each 
side  the  cnoir.  I  am  sure  that  Mi.  Willii  would 
at  once  say  that  such  an  anangement  would  be 
perfectly  practicnbie,  and  that  the  organist,  being 
placed  at  the  north  or  south  end  of  the  inatru- 
ment,  would  be  able  to  play  equidly  well  for  the 
choir  in  the  choir  proper,  or  (or  a  chur  placed, 
a*  I  proposed,  under  the  dome. 

So  much  for  the  organ.  But  Ub.  Fbbsitbsoit 
goes  on  to  say  that  there  is  another  scheme  which 
has  been  "  warmly  urged  on  the  committee  by 
Miierai  diatin^iahad  architects."    This  scbeme  la 


be  erected  under  the  dome,  irith  a  small  choir  in 
front  of  it  enclosed  with  low  marble  screens,  in  the 
very  midst  of  the  people. 

I  am  delighted  to  have  antbori^  for  the  &tct 
that "  several  diatingtushed  architect*  "  approve  of 
each  a  scheme.  AUy  I  ask  whether  it  could  be 
equally  sud  of  the  committee's  scheme  that 
"aeveral  distiiwaiidMd  arcbitaots"  entirely  ap- 
re  spcAen  to  aereial,  but  Aom 


prove  of  ii 

nctjcm  ■ 

Iknt 


Iknow  yoBi  space  is  limited,  so  I  will  eonelude 
with  only  a  few  word*  more. 
I  protest  againat  aay  woiic  being  done  in  SL 
niL  v.!---!.  ^-  —  •■       "■    "■  ■  ■  -■ 


dengns.  I  make  tlas  protest  aa  an  artist  who 
wishes  the  same  tender  care  to  be  ahown  for  Sr 
Christopher's  work  end  reputation  that  is  shown 
by  common  content  for  the  work  of  the  older  and 
generally  unknown  architects  of  our  old  cathe- 
drala,  -or  for  every  pwnter  and  aculptoc  wbora 
work  is  worth  keeping  at  all ;  and  I  do  so  becattst 
I  conceive  that,  under  pretence  of  completing  St. 
Paul's,  we  shGul  have  its  interior  so  spoilt  and 
bedecked  that  the  old  inscription  to  its  architect 
will  have  forthwith  to  be  obliterated.    * 

Mb.  Fkbottbbon  save,  however,  that  If  a  bslda- 
chin  is  to  be  erected  under  the  dome  "it  would 
coat  more  money  than  the  committee  possess  if  it 
ia  to  be  worthy  of  its  position  " ;  and  on  thb  I 
will  conclude  with  a  practical  suggestion.  All 
the  money  the  committee  poasaas  spent  on  ctie 
really  beautiful  work  of  art  would  be  fti  better 
eiqiended  than  mi  picking  out  walla  with  varied 
colonrt,  or  erecting  and  re-erecling  mgana,  moaaica, 
&C.    The  committee  have  already  conaalted  Mr. 


money  (or  half  of  it)  ia  their  hands,  saying,  "  Da- 
sign  us  the  most  beautiful  and  costly  baldatdun 
and  altar  that  you  can  ccmtrivet  employ  the  beat 
artiats  on  it,  and  spare  no  paios  to  make  It  worthy 
of  ita  place  under  our  d<mie,"  I  undertake  to  sev 
that  tbe^  would  have  in  return  a  work  of  whion 
they  mi^ht  be  proud,  of  which  all  England 
indeed  might  be  proud,  and  which  would  do  moM 
to  redeem  St.  Paul's  from  the  cbaige  (4  bein^ 
unworthy  of  our  Church  and  ijreat  city  than  any 
number  of  repelitiona  of  mosaics  such  aa  we  see 
in  the  dome,  or  of  or^na  so  contrived  as  to  con- 
ceal Sir  Christopher  Wren's  so-called  defeetiTe 
work,  or  of  other  alterations  which  must  change 
the  whde  character  i^  the  interior  of  his  great 
work.  Oborob  Eni(inn>  Stbbke. 

Clab. 


ON  THE  ABSENCE  OF  ANT  FRENCH  WOBD 
SIGNIFYING  "TO  STAND." 
(4*  8.  vii.  278.) 
The  peculiarity  of  the  Frend  language  noted 
by  Mb.  Tbbncii  is  certainly  worthy  of  investiga- 
tion. Amongst  the  Aryan  or  Indo-Earopeati 
tongues  there  la  no  radical  so  widely  diffuaea,  or 
of  such  general  application,  aa  that  ot  which  we 
have  the  earliest  form  in  the  iians.  0IM.  80  pro- 
lific has  been  this  root,  that  Profeasor  Fott  in  hia 
Stymologiiehia  UtrfiAtmgitt  gives  a  liat  of  deiiva« 
tirea  ooenpying  sixty-three  closely  printed  pagw 
from  thia  single  monosyllable.  The  disappearance 
of  its  primary  ^tplicaboo  in  the  French  uawaage 
is  all  the  more  remaikaUe.  It  ia  not  abscHbtelv 
correct  to  say  that  all  trams  of  it  hsve  dlsappeareo. 
There  isaverb  still  in  nse,  though  inavery  limited 
sense,  aUr,  which  ia  the  legfomate  deaoendailt 


NOTES  AND  QTTEBIES. 


C4'kB.VII.IUTM,Tl. 


■nd  lepnMoUtiTe  of  the  original  Latin  "  ati 
In  the  mAj  stages  of  the  lao^age  it  wu  nw 
tlia  aeoM  of  "  to  stand,"  as  m  tne  toUowing  in- 

"  Au  camp  eitet,  que  ne  Mdona  Taindu." 
C  Stand  joar  groiiDd,  that  we  be  doC  oaaqnered.")  ' 
Ctouoa  di  RoUntd,  elerentli  oeataty, 
"IUm  pul«  dire  uiu  maDtii;  id  fall  aitr  tivra  et 
wotir." 

C I  can  mj  niOnmt  DUtiatb,  I  can  make  Mm  atand 
np,  Utb  BDd  feeL" 

Jtmuii  ill  In  BoMc,  thirteanth  cantniv. 

Graduallf,  lioweTer,  ite  application  was  re- 
strictedf  and  by  tlie  aixteenUi  oentnrj  it  had 
settled  into  a  law  term;  "aler  en  jugement,"  to 
punue  01  defend  in  an  action ;  "  etier  &  droit,"  to 
put  in  an  appeaiance.  It  is  worthy  of  remark 
that  CotgraTe  (1660)  inlerprets  aterj  "  to  stand, 
endure,"  in  addition  to  its  application  as  a  law 
term.  Tarrer  saja,  it  is  aUlI  used  fifjuratiTel;  in 
the  sense  of  "  hesitatiiiK ''  or  "  pausing,"  but  I 
have  never  met  with  it  in  this  sense. 

It  has  been  a  moot  point  with  philologists 
whether  rfr«  is  derived  from  Lat  dare,  or  fiom  eue, 
in  low  Latin  eitere.  Menage  *  and  Sir  Comewall 
Lewis  t  adopt  the  former  derivation,  but  the 
preponderance  of  modeni  authorities,  Littr^  Xj 
Brachetf,  Baillyl!,  &c,  inclines  to  the  latter. 
There  can  be  no  donbt  that  the  imperfect  Uaii, 
(estois),  the  participles  of  the  present  Stout  (estant) 
and  of  the  past  iU  (esl€)j  are  derived  fiom  itabam, 
tbmt,  and  ttalM. 

If  the  direct  expression  for  standing  has  dropped, 
insome  mysterious  way,  out  of  use  in  French,  the 
Teveise  has  taken  place  in  Italiati,  where  "  stare  " 
is  used  with  almost  every  imaginable  meaning, 
not  onl^  of  standing,  but  that  of  delaying,  tarrying, 
continniog,  ceasing,  paauog,  costing,  &&  "Staudo 
pocbi  giomi,"  A  few  days  since;  "Quanto  vi  ata 
qneeto  qua^f"  How  much  did  this  picture 
costP  "  Sta  a  voi  a  venire,"  It  is  your  turn  to 
come,  &c  CaUioK  on  a  friend  in  Rome,  I  am 
informed  bv  the  "  aomeetico,"  "  II  Slgnor  noo  sta 
bene, sta  aletto," literally,  "Masterdoesnot  stand 
well,  be  stands  in  bed." 

There  seems  to  be  in  the  French  language  a 
stiKnge  tendency  to  jprefer  circumlocutory  expres- 
sions, and  to  drop  tnoee  which  express  the  same 
idea  more  directly.  Thus,  down  lo  the  close  of 
the  seventeenth  century,  to  ride  on  horseback  was 
expressed  b^  "  chevaucher,"  a  most  expressive 
word  for  which  we  have  no  equivalent  This  has 
altogether  disappeared,  and  its  place  is  taken  by 


*  Origmu  dt  la  Lmgtu  fnmfoit,  1660. 

t  EoBy  OB  tin  AmuiKi  Un^wiga,  lS6i. 

t  -Siclwinvrira  dt  b  Laagiu  ftto^tatt  (not  yet  com- 

§  DietioHKtire  itgmologimu,  1870. 
I  »nwj  dit  Rad*f,  lese. 


the  dnmiy  comrotriona  "oiler  ft  choral,''  "pro- 
mener  ft  cnvaC" 

The  numerals  "septante,"  "octante,"  or  "hni- 
tante,"  "novante,"  have  within  the  same  period 
been  thrown  over,  to  be  snpplanted  by  the  cum- 
brous forms  "  soiiante-dix,  "  quatee-vingto," 
"quatre<vingt-diz,"  which  in  the  ordinal  form^ 
such  as  "  quatre-vingt-diz-septiime "  for  tha 
"  ninety-seventh,"  is  about  as  awkward  a  peri- 
phraais  as  can  be  imagined.  J.  A.  Picniff. 

Sandyknow^  Wavsrtree,  near  LivetpooL 

Hr.  Tehtch's  remark,  that  the  French  have  do 
word  to  expresB  oar  wind  "  to  atand,"  is  correct 
only  so  &r  as  you  might  aa^,  that  the  I'^gl"'' 
baa  no  word  to  expreas  "  to  sit  down,"  becaose  it 
requires  three  words  to  express  it.  I  have  no 
fVench  Bible  at  hand  for  the  Old  Testament,  bnt 
the  passage  in  Ueut.  xviii.  6  does  not  mean  "  to 
stand,"  in  the  sense  of  being  upright  on  one's  feet; 
and  Diodati  translates  it,  "  si  presenti  per  fare  il 
eeivigio  nel  Nome  del  Signore.  tlivMrdnu  ttam 
E-vptaii  rm  »taS  (LXX),  means  to  be  present  before, 
and  not  to  stand.  Id  tiiis  sense  "  asuster  "  is 
better  than  our  rendering,  because  in  EVeoch  "  es- 
sister  "  means,  not  so  much  to  aid  as  to  6s  pretmtt 
at,  m"  asaister  ft  la  messe."  So  in  Uark  xL  26, 
tnr  rHtKifi*  ■■  rather  when  you  shall  ha^pesi  to 
be  standing  and  praying,  or  may  bt  praying,  or 
when  m  act  of  prayer,  "  lorsque  vous  prierea." 
Here  it  is  not  so  much  that  the  French  have  not 
got  the  word,  as  that  we  have  adopted  the  idiom, 

'ag  to  the  translators  of  our  Bittle  having  ad- 


hered too  literally  to  the  Greek  words.    Kevela- 
precise  equivalent  for  the  sense  of  ue  Greek, 


v"s^ 


Toici  ft  la  porte,  et  j'v  frappe," 


though  it  does  not  connote  the  unimportant  par- 
ticular of  the  posture  of  the  person  knocking.  If 
that  were  important,  aFrenchman  could  say,"Ms 
void  deboia  ft  la  ports,"  &c.  In  Heb.  x.  11,  the 
pRMs^  contrasts  with  sitting ;  hence,  if  there  be 
validly  in  the  remark  at  all,  it  is  here  or  no- 
where that  it  will  apply.  ''  Every  priest  iteaidietk 
daily  ministering," — "  tous  les  pretres  se  pr^sant- 
ent  tons  lea  jours  (ft  Dieu)  sacrifiaut."  This  ren- 
dering is  not  nearlv  so  correct  as  the  French  lan- 
guage is  capable  of  making  it.  It  could  be  done 
thus :  "  cheque  pretre  ae  (tent  debotd  administraut 
tous  les  jours,  et  oflrant,"  ftc.  Diodati  evidently 
thought  so,  for  he  gives  it  "  ogni  socerdote  6  in 
pi&  ognigiomoministrando,"  toeontiBStthe  action 
as  strongly  as  poeiible  with  "i  poato  a  sedere" 
in  V.  12.  "  Se  tient  debout,"  "i  in  pift  "  are 
exactly  equivalent  in  the  meaning,  and  in  Ibe 
number  of  words  used.  It  seems,  as  I  said  at 
first,  that  the  question  turns  upon  whether  the 
rendering  is  to  be  by  one  word  or  three.  The 
French  cannot  ezpreas  "  he  stands"  bv  one  word, 
bnt  there  is  nothing  we  can  say  with  the  verb  "  ta  1 . 1 
stand " that  a  Frenchman  cannot  express  jnst  a*'^ 


i>&TII.llATlD,'TtO 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


■welL  Of  cotme  yon  can  call  it  drcnmlocntioii, 
but  this  ia  M  tririal  ui  maa,  tint  nobodj,  pro* 
bablT,  would  can  to  mtdntuD  it  One  ftench 
■worn  may  require  Ome  in  Epgliali,  or  vice  vtrtd. 
la  it  cinjiimlocution  thftt  aU  Engluh  infiaitiyeg 
require  two  woida  to  expnsa  them,  whilst  the 
French  \ise  only  one  (except  in  leflectiTe  veiba), 
aa  "  manner,"  ''  to  eat  "f    I  trow  not. 

One  tiling  tli&t  comea  out  of  all  thia  minute  pre- 
cision is,  that  the  posture  in  prayer  baa  changed. 
An  Oriental  stood  and  stands  tb  pray,  a  Jew  stood, 
a  Roman  stood,  a  mystic  falls  upon  the  face  flat, 
a  Ohrialian  kneels.  To  "  stand  and  pray  "  is  the 
English  Biblical  phrase.  In  St.  Giles's  church  they 
used  to  put  a  notice  in  eveiy  pew  as  to  the  poa- 
tuns considered  to befitthe English  service:  "To 
stand  for  ascription  of  pruse,  to  sit  to  hear,  to 
kneel  to  prw."  In  spite  of  Philippians  ii.  10,  nir 
lira  nif'^,  I  doofat  if  kneeling  be  aught  else  than 
a  feudal  symbol  of  Taaaalaae,  commendnop  about 
the  eiRbthcentniT,  with  the  Kissing  of  Leo  a  toe,  if 
as  early.  In  1275  it  waa  ordered  that  every  knee 
aliould  bend  at  the  name  of  Jeaus — a  case,  &  for- 
tiori, if  bent  to  a  baiou  or  master.  It  has  grown, 
prescriptive,  but  neither  manners,,  dignitj^,  nor 
antiqm^  recommend  it,  and  also  some  evU  has 
come  of  it,  as  of  evety  ill  change.  C.  A.  W. 

May  Fiir. 

Thia  cnrioua  fact  has  been  already  remarked 
upon  by  Thomas  Fuller  with  his  uuial  quaint- 
nese: — 

"Aitbdr  (the  French)  Isngnsge  winteth  one  pnjpsr 
word  to  ezpKM  ilotid,  K  tbrir  nalnra  misUke  s  Mttled, 
fixed  posture,  and  delight  in  motion  and  agitallon  of 
tnudneo."— £oIy  Warn,  CambridRB,  1610,  p.  19. 

W.  RC. 
OissgDW. 

like  ^ur  correspondent,  I  hare  been  under  the 
impression  that  there  are  no  words  in  the  French 
language  to  express  "  to  stand,"  "  to  ait,"  "  to  lie 
down ' ;  and  tnat,  from  that  wan^  it  would  be 
impoaaible  to  expresa  with  the  simplicity  and 
pathoa  of  Shakspeore,  Dryden,  and  Byron,  these 
thoughts ; — 

"^le  lot,  like  Paticoice  on  a  mODnmeat" 

"  Upon  the  eutb  the  monsTCb  litt." 
"  I  ilood  in  Venice  on  the  Bridge  of  Sigbs." 

I  have  only  to  add  the  want  (as  far  as  I  know) 
of  three  verbs  expressing  ordinary  locomotion — 
"I  walk,"  "I  ride,"  "I  drive."  The  verb  "I 
walk"  exists,  I  am  told,  in  Sanscrit;  but  except 
the  Anglo-Saxon,  all  other  Aryan  people  have 
dropped  it  The  French  "  se  promener ''  means 
twenty  things ;  "  se  promener  A  cberal,"  "  am  les 
vtiox,    "  en  Toitnre,''  &e. 

As  for  riding,  the  French  have  allowed  their 
good  old  word  "cbavancher"  to  become  obsolete, 
and  I  am  not  nraie  that  they  have  adopted  any 


other.  Again,  Quj  have  no  one  word  to  expieas 
"diiTinK,"^in  the  sense  of  motion  in  a  carnage. 
"  I  shall  waft  to  Qreenwicb,  John  will  ride,  ukl 
the  ladies  will  drtM,"  could  only  be  rendered  in 
French  by  three  periphrases. 
I  shall  be  glad  to  be  conected  by  some  French 


scholar. 


J,  C.  M. 


In  Max  Hiillet's  CMpt  from  a  Qtrman  Work- 
shop, vol.  iii.  p.  176,  in  bis  article  on  "  Joinville," 
who  lived  about  1300,  the  author,  noticing  the 
changes  which  have  occurred  in  the  French  lan- 
guage, inter  alia,  obeerves :  "  We  still  find  aier, 
'to  stand '  (et  ne  povit  ester  aur  see  piedSj '  he 
could  not  stand  on  his  feet')."  At  present  the 
fVench  have  no  single  word  for  "  standing,"  which 
has  often  been  pointed  out  as  a  defect  in  the  lan- 
puage.  "To  stand"  is  <rferin  Joinville,  "to  be" 
IS  erirs.  J.  H.  L. 

Cambridge. 

HABUABET  FEKDLES,  LU>T  HOBTIIIER. 
(4«»  S.  Til  12,  223,  8ia) 

Your  learned  correspondents  HKRitEinxiniB  and 
D.  P.  have  most  ingutioualy  puzzled  themselves 
into  believing  that  there  is  some  mystery  about 
the  parentage  of  "  Margaret  de  Fen£e»,  the  kins- 
woman of  Queen  Eleanor,  who  married  Edmond 
Lord  Mortimer  of  Wigmore."  Margaret  was  not 
a  Spaniard  (whatever  Uie  erudite  Smyth  of  Nibley 
may  have  said),  but  was  a  daughter  of  the  well- 
known  Anglo-f^ench  house  of  Fieniies  or  Fienles ; 
and  she  is  dulv  recorded  in  their  family  pedigree 
by  French  and  English  geneal^iats  of  even'  grade, 
&om  P.  Anselnie  (vi.  167)  to  IWier  (ii.  273). 

FenoOe*  and  Fendiet  are  mere  blunders  of  the 
copyist,  but  the  name  was  written  in  a  variety  of 
ways  in  the  "Figlial'  records ;  and  her  father  is 
called  in  bis  -&J.  p.  m.  (30  Edw.  I.  33)  "Wil- 
lielmus  de  Fyenes  ti»  Feues  als  Fyenles."  The 
French  seigneurie  of  Fiennes  was  one  of  the 
twelve  baronies  comprised  in  the  county  of  Ouis- 
nes,  in  Picardy,  and  waa  therefore  in  close  vicinity 
to  the  county  of  Ponthieu— the  maternal  inherit- 
ance  of  Queen  Eleanor ;  but  the  Sieurs  de  Hennea 
had,  from  the  reign  of  King  John,  possessed  the 
manor  of  Clapham  in  Surrey,  and  other  lands  in 
England.  Manaret  was  prooably  bom  abrosdi 
for  when  her  fether  Sir  William  died,  in  1302, 
his  eldest  son  John  (then  aged  twenty-fire  and 
upwards)  b  said  in  the  Fme  Roll  to  have  been 
bom  in  "parts  beyond  sea."  This  is  the  John 
de  ironies  whom  Edward  H.  calls  bis  kinsman, 
in  his  letter  to  the  tovm  of  St.  Omar  in  1316 
{Sot.  Clmu.,  10  Edw.  U.). 

Mawsfet's  relationsMp  to  Queen  Eleanor  is  very 
clear.    Her  father  Sir  William  deRennes,  was  the 
c^andson  of  William  de  Hennes  by  Agnea  de ,  I  r> 
Daamiartin,  the  sister  of  Simon  de  DaDuaartin,  > 


NOTES  AND  QUBBIBS. 


[4aB.TIL1IatM,7L 


CoHBt  of  Amwle  and  PonthiBiu,  tb 
gnodbthei  of  Queen  Me«aor.  lite  qneen  lund 
etidentlr  a  itioiig  aSeotioii  foi  ker  coaauiB  of  the 
liouse  M  Fienne^  for  ilie  gave  a  rioh  dowrj  to 
M&nd  de  Fieanea  (the  aoat  of  Maigant  Horti' 
mer)  <m  hex  muiiwe  witb  Hompbrej  de  Bohim 
(Dq:dBleJ,    The  bnaf  iwdlgrea  bebw  will  sluw 


cImuBt  all  tbese  cotwectiona,  and  can  be  verified 
from  P.  Anaelme,  volj.  tL  ai^  viii. ;  and  L'Art  dt 
Vtrifitr  let  datm,  Bvo,  toU.  zi.  and  ziL  It  will  be 
seen  that  BxBHSNiRnsx  i«  mistalten  in  ■Mffting 
that  the  ([ueen'a  mat«nal  gnndmother  «aa  Alice 
of  Fnoco. 


I 


Aaiui  Duamtftta  « 


.r-J. 


'Fhmnnr,  QnMO  li  Edward  I, 
CovnUai  of  PontliieD,  died 
12»0. 


Uugnrct  Fi«QaM,'Mmetime«  callsd  Mary  —  Edmond,  Lord  HMtimw  of  Wlpnon 


It  ia  not  in  the  SigOUt  Comitiim  Handria,  but 


that  the  svne  of  flenles  occura.  I  haTe  both 
folios;  the  former  (a  particukriy  fine  copy)  in 
Flemuh,  the  lattai  in  Ftendi.  "Ihe  f^enlea  pedi- 
gree  occun  at  p.  90,  table  13,  and  from  it  I 
extract  the  following  information ;  — 

Isahel,  daughter  of  Guj,  Coimt  of  Flandera 
(died  1304),  br  hii  wife  leabel  of  Lurembuw, 
muiied  Jean,  Seigneiir  de  Fienles,  Chaiitalaiii  de 
Bourbou^,  Seigneur  de  Tingri,  Jtc  Their  seals 
are  appended  to  documenta  giren  in  vol.  ii. 
pp.  1^,  140,  and  are  engraved  on  p.  92.  These 
docaments  are  dated  13%).  Tbe  inscriptioiis  are 
as  follows;  — «  s'  lOHAKis  .  niri.  ni .  nKirL»  . 
unjiiB.    On  another  seal:  s'.  foHis  nin  de  pieit- 

UK  SI  CISTELLAXI  SX  BOUBBOBOH  KILIT'.     The 

cotrntar-seal  of  this  bean:    «<  Dr*  a'  lOHU  nin 

BX   7IXIBS(nc)  BT  OASmXAin   BB   BOTXB  .  VIUT. 

The  anna  on  the  shields  and  horse-trappings  an 
thelionrampant(Arg.aUonranip.sa.).  oeeBurke, 
Owwra/ .drmory,  S.  T.  "Fynes"  and  "Fines."  On 
tbe  seal  of  Isabel,  nBBXLBs ;  imd  on  the  counter- 
seal,  TiKBLiB — are  raristians  in  the  speUing  of 
the  titla  The  son  of  Jubn  and  Isabel  was  Robert 
de  Fienles  {Diet.  Moreau),  Constable  of  IVanee. 
Ilis  seal  is  appended  to  nn  agreenient  by  wliich 
certain  exchanges  were  effected  between  himself 
and  Louis  Coont  of  Flanders,  ka.,  and  besn  data 
1366.  Ita  inscriptdoa  is:  ib  bkel  .  bobbkt  bb 
nEKiTEi.  Here  we  hare  the  name  In  the  form 
familiar  to  ns.  It  is  thus  spelt  else  in  another 
document :  "  fiobert.  Sire  de  Fiennes,  Connestable 
da  Franco,"  kc.  &c  (dated  Not.  22,  1366).  The 
seal  bears  the  above  suns,  tlmbred  wiUi  h  helmet 
crested  with  a  stao's  head,  and  sapported  by  two 
gryphons.   He  died  diildlses ;  and  bJa  niece  Maud 


(dsn^ter  aod  heinss  of  his  ^ster  Jeann^  by  Jeu 

de  Ohfttilloo,  Count  de  St  Pol)  carried  Fiennes 
to  her  husband,  Ony  de  Lnzembonrg,  Comte  de 
Lipiy,  St.  Pol,  Ac.  Thiebaut,  TOungM  braOer 
of  Louis  de  Luiembouiv,  Count  de  St  Pol,  three 
generations  later,  had  Rennes  as  his  appanage^ 
and  it  remuned  in  the  possession  of  his  deecend- 
Mta.  (Jsqaeline,  Ducbesa  of  Bedfos^  wu  natei 
of  Guy  and  Thiebaut) 

So  much  for  the  hiatoiy  of  the  family  of  Henles 
or  Fiennes.  I  find  no  trace  of  a  Spanish  or^in, 
or  of  any  connection  with  Queen  Eleanor  of  Csft- 
tile,  wife  of  King  Edwaid  L  But  I  think  lite 
ioecription  on  one  of  the  seals  quoted  above  may 
explam  the  mystery.  It  occurs  to  me  thatSoiy^ 
or  some  other  chronicler  from  whom  he  copied, 
has  been  misled  by  that  or  a  similar  inscription, 
perhaps  taken  from  an  imperfect  impresuon  of  a 
seal,  and  reading  "D°' de  Fienles  et  CasteUani," 
&C.,  has  attributed  to  tbe  owner  of  the  seal  a 
Spiinish  origin— mistaking  the  "CaateUaai"  for 
the  title  of  Castile.  Q'  Castell "  appears  on  sevent 
royal  senls  of  Spanisn  origin  in  the  volume  befoM 
me.)  It  was  an  easy  step  then  to  assume  a  oouun- 
sbip  between  Eleanor  of  Caatile  and  the  contem- 
porary William  de  ffendles.  who  may  have  been 
a  father  or  brother  of  Isabella's  husband  lean. 

JOHH  WOOBWABI'. 


In  the  pedigi ^  _..  ._. 

Trophiet  da  Srabanl  (i.  36S),  we  are  laid  that 
Eustace,  who  married  AdeU  de  Fumes  in  IQBO, 


e  of  the  family  of  Fienaei,  in 
raboHl  O-St^),  we  are  laid  I 


"  Sieur  ct  Bsron  ds  Fiannes,  I'une  dw  doua  DaTOOshs 
d«  U  Comt^  lit  Gulaa,  sppeU  andenDemaat  dan*  Im 
Chiittea  riBnles." 

Tha  arms  engraved  are :  A]^«nt,  a  lion  rampaBt 
•able.  Ookt. 


«'»B.T1L1Ut20,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QIIERIES. 


PAMPHLET:  ITS  ETYMOUXit. 

(2^  and  3"*  S.  pamim.} 

"When  Db.  Dobut  qaoted  Th»  Athmmum,  «heH 
«  PampUvt "  u  BBid  ta  haT«  bean  tha  nune  of  & 
Udr,  uiglidf  modified,  who  fint  «aipl<irad  hei> 


Huggwtioc 


1  vrriting  punpbleU,  &C,,  1  aajipMad 
itioo  VM  detigTied  ai  tk  joke  against  etj^nio- 
,  beoaoae  he  produced  no  proof  that  this 
Toiuminoiu  authoress  did  write  pamphlete;  lut 
reoeutlj  a  very  rare  work  l^  cone  inta  mj  pos- 
aeatioD,-  wMob  tko*  desciibas  the  extntordinorf 
nmita  of  a  ladj  of  this  nun* :  — 


PamjAglc  grtea  Bmnbieit  itnmtHet. — Pimphllem 
in  gneam  ftmlium,  qm  qooddim  booan  niypub- 


tnta  floruina  eompartam  est  Hoc  quippe  atn  amplu- 
glpjla  titiiUi  d«conil  nan  pouit,  tunes  quoaiam  ali^uid 
my  pa.  addidit  boot,  ma  partlooa  laadls  Ucttamitate 
nntra  frandul  ocm  d«bet  Que  earn  esset  iogeotia  !n- 
gonil  ftmlna  i  prima  (nt  qoldaai  ■notoni  vuunt)  ri 
•ibnwmHg  nUluan  Bombiaem  «oUecit :  et  illam  a  snpai- 
floitatlbBa  miro  mode  paotine  parsara  piimnin  eapi^  et 

ban  seidt :  at  Indi  liuuM  Toliiit :  et  allM  iUdem  docult. 
Et  >la  dlam  nnun  «o  naque  aatrvrdi  ineognltDoi  lnlT(»- 
duzit.  OdJsi  tey  raUo  ezeogitata  tateudet  fhella  qnao- 
ton  In  reliqata  agcndla  deboult  hac  femina  Tiliiinii " 
Jo.  PUUfpi  AxHli  Btrp/wiaui*  d*  flurimit  otorit 
«c*f<r)3(iifMa  Miditriiu*  Cteiu.  To.  xxx°.  sap.  xxxiil. 
Feimle.  Ii97. 

In  Um  woodout  which  aacompaniaB  the  test, 
this  illiiatriaiu  lady  ia  represented  aa  holduig  a 
book  in  her  hand,  {itabablj  her  handbook  teach- 
ing tba  art  ahe  had  inTented  (the  tearing  of  talk- 
woniu),  and  bound  with  the  thread  die  had 
mmnbetiuwd. 

"  AltkODcb  the  article  qow  koown  to  ouraelTM  Dodei 
tba  name  of  silk  la  '  tantiliar  as  hoiuehotd  vrords,'  jtt  Its 
natnrg  and  origin  were  bat  obicnrelj-,  IT  at  all,  aaeei^ 
talaail  in  aneient  timea.  PDny,  wboM  judgment  and 
dkoiimination  as  a  compiler  are  not  greatly  lo  be  railed 
npQD,  Tsporta  that  the  boMbj/x  (or  silkworm}  ia  a  native 
of  Kfi^  an  island  of  (he  HedilerraDean  ardilpetago.    It 


Invntreaa  of  tl 


m  b;  the  women  oT  that  Island.  Tba 
*  PamphUla.  She  anwore 
uia  fmmsmm  nuwnu  lo  n<;OiiipCM  it  io  her  bHnn  Into 
fabriea  of  a  more  eataided  tazloie :  Ibna  ennvertiiig  the 
auhatanWal  rilka  of  tfaa  Sena  into  thin  transparent  game, 
obtaining  in  measure  what  was  lost  in  anbatance.    At- 

* ta  tuiTe  bean  made  to  rob  tlie  InTeatrasa  of  aD  the 

tMleMing  to  Diis  pnMets,  bv  Identuyiiw  tba  ioM- 
wUhttM  raw  material,  whicb  it  ia  aaidPampliTlia 
•no  ner  nymplw  pnworBd  fiom  Sena,  and  ^nn  or  wove 
Into  aarinai  or  dDt.  Bat  Ue  bet  of  the  reweariag  rests 
npon  too  good  antholtj  to  be  dovbtai."—Enaiclistadia 
**ii»fai,».y."8i]k.''p.B88. 

BmioisioAB.  Cezxeak, 


temptahi 
naritbaV 


BHEPFIELD  FOLK-LOBE. 
(4«  B.  TiL  290.) 

Just  as  "  januock  "  is  another  fbrm  of  the  word 
which  in  modern  English  appeals  as  "sTen,"  so 
"  retchet "  ia  another  form  of  Old  En^.  brarM  or 
braeheU.  The  forms  brac/iM,  brachts,  braehtttt, 
raduAen,  moian,  are  alt  met  with  in  Sir  Qa- 
tea^ne  md  lite  Orteu  Knight.  The  ocomeettoa 
is  with  A.-B.  raea,  Dan.  dial  rakie,  O.  N. 
raolU,  See.,  and  the  JVon^torimm  eaiij  ia  "  rattAt, 
hownde."  "Qabriel  hounds"  i^  therefore,  onljr 
a  translation  (so  to  speak)  of  "  Oabriel  ratchet. 
The  most  curious  part  of  the  term,  however,  is 
the  prefiK  "Gabriel,"  "Gabble,"  or,  as  satiaded 
hare,  "  Gaab'ri."  For  a.  long  time  I  could  obtain 
no  clue  to  ettfaw  its  meaning  or  itsderivation,  and 
notwithgtiaidiDy  the  QUhohoim  Angl  entry,  "  Ga- 
brielle  rache,  Aw  oamaA'aH,"  I  was  utterly  unable 
to  connect  the  said  pre&x  with  the  peisoaal  name 
it  seems  to  reproduce.  At  length  an  entar  in 
JVompt.  Parr.ra*eiue  the  due,  and  I  wasenaDled 
to  explain  "Galurial"  o^  "Gabble,"  the  lattw 
being  merely  a  oolruption  of  the  former.  Tbe 
entiy  lefeirsd  to  is  aa  follows : — "  ij/cia,  ded« 
body.  Fmtut,  gahartt,  <iS.  et  ca.  in  Qabri«l 
tUdt  gabarm,  vel  gabbaren."  Oabareit  or  giAbaren 
then,  which,  by  the  authorilaes  quoted  {Miriva- 
lentit  in  Campo  Ftorum,  and  Vguitio  or  Ugt^, 
both  ancient  vocabulariea),  is  Interchangeable  with 
Qabriel,  together  with  gHaret,  is  clearly  synony- 
moua  with  fumu,  in  the  sense  of  corpse  or  desd 
body :  and  if  confirmation  were  required,  Faccio- 
lad  givea  "  Gabbar«,  vel  Gabbares,  cadavera  tpnd 
.fGgyplioB  pollinctorum  arte  delibuta,  arefact^  et 
a  corruptione  immunia,  mumniiet."  "  Qabnol- 
ratcbet,'"  or  "  Gabble-retchet,"  therefore,  when 
translated  into  English,  becomes  simply  "  coroae- 
houud,"  and  cbt^enges  comparison  with  Dan. 
Hig-hvalp,  Uig-hund,  Bairakha-  or  Heirakke,  &c. ; 
only  remeioDering  that,  while  Hig  ia  the  same 
word  as  O.  Engl.  h/ch«,  A.-S.  lie  lux,  E.  Uch  Qa. 
UcK^aU),  Set,  as  the  name  of  the  soddess  (tf 
the  oead.  is  atrictlv  aynonymous.  In  this  district 
the  " unbaptised  tiabies ''  form  of  the  myth  ii 
not  known,  but  there  are  two,  in  a  sense,  dia- 
tinct  "  superstitious  "  notions  connected  with  tha 
"  Gaab'rl-ratchet,"  one  of  which  corresponds  ex- 
actly with  Dan.  htlrakker  aa  defined  by  Thlel«k 
"a  sound  heard  in  the  atr,  \erj  like  the  haying  of 
hounds,  and  when  beard,  taken  to  presa^  death 
and  wasting";  the  other  is  almost  identical  with 
Old  Dan.  hd^akke,  described  by  Uolbech  as — 

"A  bird  with  a  large  head,  staring  eves,  orooked  baak, 
shaip  claws,  which  In  days  of  ;or«  was  believed  to  appear 


I  have  had  sundry  Terycnrions  eommnnieadoDB 
toochins  the  "  Gaab'rl-ratchet "  made  to  me,  in  ,  I  p 
all  good  f^th,  by  aome  of  my  Cleveland  ndgh-  ^ 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


[4»B.Tn.lUTS0,'71. 


boon.  One  involved  the  comet  yny  of  avoting 
the  omen,  wbidi  I  think  Jael  Dence  wu  not "  up 
to."  Of  eoone,  m  Mk.  BBmKN  naggetla,  the 
txmneotioa  is  witit  the  multifonii  u  weU  u  many- 
DBmed  "  Will  Huntsman  "  legend. 
Dubjr  in  Gknl«ad.  J,  C.  ATzntBOir. 

The  word  reUM  in  the  phrase  "  Oabble  ratchet" 
(proviocial  far  "  Oabriel  nounda  ")  meuu  "  foot- 
scentiDg  honnda."    The  A.-^.  form  ia  race;  £. 


Eng. 

(E.  E.  T.  S.)  the  word 

"  A  IT  racbchu  in  a  rw  ndlr  bem  folict." 

(1. 1164.) 
"  Balddf  >ay  blw  piTt,  bayed  Mji  raehdie}.'' 

IntheOrmuJH>n(L  1350S)  we  get— 
■■  Blhbt  alli  ao  hoiiDte  tak^  dar 
,  Wi  pp  tuM  3iq«  raochns.' 
The  iVotnpf.  i'on).  (p.  423)  interpreta  "  odo- 
rinaecuB,  quasi  odorem  sequene,"  &c. 

"Racche"  seenu  to  be  a  Northern  torn  of 
"  Brtiche  " ;  or,  as  some  aa^f  "  Brache "  is  the 
feminine  of  "Rocche."  The  f com  "Brachet"  is 
Johh  Asms. 


Uuxso  Pabz  ixn  THB  Uoss  (4»  S.  viL  298.) — 
You  maj  coomder  the  following  little  inddent  as 
Torthj  of  insertion  in  jont  periodical,  which  I 
alwaya  read  with  pleasnie: 

Ton  quote  pai 
JametJlamitlon; 
fks.    He  sa; 

d  the  moss  which  saved  Mungo  Park's  111 
the  burning  wsatas  of  Afrio^  and  also  that  it  bad 
been  given  b;  Dickaon  to  Sir  'Wtlliam.    This  is 
not  pieciselv  the  fact    The  old  man,  about  the 

a  1810,  showed  it  to  the  then  joung  and  ardent 
niat,  who  much  desired  to  purchase  it  Dick- 
aon, who  was  a  herbalist,  uid  sold  medicinal 
planta  at  hia  stall  in  Covent  Oatdeu  Market,  pn>- 
bablj  thought  that  tike  eentleman  might  be  wil- 
ling to  give  a  fancy  pnoe,  and  accordingly  said 


that  he  "  would  not  part  with  the  spedmen 
leas  gold  than  would  [not  weigh  as  much^u' 
would]  cover  it"  On  wlueh,  Sir  William  Hooker 
drew  a  guinea  from  his  parse,  and  carried  off  the 

It  is  correct  that  the  tinv  moss  was  always 
shown  to  the  botaoical  daas  during  Sit  William's 
lectures;  and  always  accompanied  with  the  high 
lesson  which  it  conveyed,  and  which  he  would 
have  been  the  last  man  to  omit 

People  have  etroneously  aupposed  that 
may  have  "aaved  Mungo  Park's  life,"  in  tli 
aense  as  the  so-called  moss  (pipe  tk  rocht)  pre- 
served Franklin  and  Ricbaidsoa  Irom  total  starva- 
tion. But  the  identical  plant  to  which,  and  to 
the  nflectiona  which  it  suggested,  Mungo  Park 


Aa  Sr  William  Hooker's  vridow,  and  already 
is  wife  when  Di.  James  Hamilton  was  one  of  hia 
favourite  atodenta  and  a  frequent  vidtor  at  hia 
hous&  I  can  atteet  the  general  accuracy  of  Dr. 
HamUtmi's  statements;  and,  but  for  severe  ill- 
nesi,  I  should  have  sooner  read  the  "  N,  A  Q," 
of  April  8,  and  aent  the  above  information. 

Mama  Hooxzb. 

Torquay. 

OsAXTHAK  Imr  3mm  (4'*  S.  vii  343.)  — The 
great  number  of  inn  signs  at  Qrantham  hAving 
tiie  prafix  blut,  aroae  out  of  electioneering  eon- 
teats  about  the  close  of  the  last  or  the  beginning 
of  the  present  century.  Blue,  ctmtruy  to  the 
ns<^  customary  in  most  parts  of  the  kingdom,  is 
in  Oncolnshira  the  whig,  or  rather,  in  these  day^ 
"  the  advanced  liberal "  party  colour.  Sir  William 
Talmash.  afterwards  Lord  Huntingtower,  an  ec- 
centric cnaiacter,  sen  of  Louisa  Connteee  of  Dy- 
aart,  by  her  husband  John  Manners,  Eaq.,  ot 
Orauthun  Qnuge,  inherited  from  hia  &tfier  a 
coDuderable  estate  in  that  borough  and  its  neigh- 
bourhood. At  the  period  referred  to  he  advocated 
"  the  old  blue  cause,"  and.  uther  vrith  a  view  of 
iucreaaing  hia  political  influence  or  from  caprice^ 
he  chan^  the  signs  of  all  the  public  honsea  that 
he  owned  into  Blue  Men,  Blue  Lions,  Blue  Boan^ 
Blue  Sheep,  &c.  So  great  indeed  was  his  admira- 
tion for  this  colour  that  be  was  even  chaired  on  a 
blue  bull  with  gilt  boms  and  hoofo.  Qrantham, 
besides  being  noted  for  its  excellent  |iuKerbread, 
cheese-cakes,  and  raised  pork-pies,  did  uatg,  and 
possibly  now  can,  boast  of  a  unic|ue  beer-house 
sign  in  the  shape  of  a  living  beehive  perched  on 
tbe  top  of  an  old  pollard  tree.  It  may  be  worth 
while  to  add,  that  its  cosy  old  Angelj  well  knon 
to  many  a  Nimrod,  was  an  hostel^  in  the  time  of 
King  John,  and  tradition  asserts  that  that  monarch 
once  lodged  there.  &r  Coillcs. 

Chaklw  I.  (4""  S.  viL  342.)— The  Earl  of 
Essex  has  at  Casbiobury  a  amall  juece  of  the 
ribbon  of  the  Garter  given  to  ]ffishop  Juxon ;  it 
is  sky-blue.  I  hove  heard  that  the  greater  part  of 
the  ribbon  remtuned  in  the  family  tepresentiDg 
Juxon  for  several  generations,  and  was  destroyed 
by  a  lady  to  annoy  her  husband.  . 

Tbb  Ebibht  or  Hosab. 

Judicial  Oaths  (4*  S..vii.  209,  364.)  —  I  am 
much  surprised  that  HuBKKRTBimB  has  so  com- 
pletely mistaken  my  meamng.  It  is  that  if  tbe 
mere  woids  of  the  Bible,  "  Swear  not  at  aU," 
an  to  be  taken  in  their  literal  sense,  without  ex- 
planation, so  are  its  vrords,  "  Call  no  man  vo«r 
father  upon  the  earth  ";  and  how  then  can  uoas 
who  ob^  the  one  ii^unction  pa^  no  tenrd  to  tlie 
other  f  It  was  moat  distinctly  implied  thetefore 
in  what  I  sud,  that  as  in  the  one  instance  (as 


**8.Tn.  Ma»30,7I.] 


NOTES  AND  QTTERIES. 


441 


could  be  shown  from  oUier  texts  of  Scriptaie)  it 
-was  not  forlndden  to  take  a  jadidal  oath,  so  in 
the  other  the  injonction  "had  (to  uae  Hebhkh- 
zbitiie'b  words)  no  nfereoce  to  the  nataral  epithet 
^veQ  hj  A  child  to  i^  father."  I  asked  those 
then  who  objected  to  oatbs  of  anv  kind,  to  defend 
their  consistencf.  In  making  thia  demand  then 
mj  m«anmg  was,  I  hnmblj  tunk,  quite  clear,  and 
tliat  HxBHSKTBUDE  htd  no  ground  to  say  that  I 
am  ignorant  of  a  tniiam.  Q. 

EiUibargh, 

Hampdbs  Fiimr  (4,'^  8.  nl.  189,  273,  2S3.>— 
It  is  interesting,  of  coarse,  to  know  what  idea 
John  Hampden  had  of  the  true  spelling  of  his 
own  name;  but  it  settles  nothing,  at  vorj  little, 


person  concerned  si^  his  name  with  one  spell- 
ing, his  own  son  with  another  as  witness,  while 
the  name  is  spelt  difTerentlr  from  both  b^  the  law 
scribe  who  drew  up  the  deed.  I  am  still  in  the 
dark  aa  to  the  descendants  of  all  those  cousinB  of 
John  Hampden,  from  some  of  whom  the  late 
Siehop  of  Hereford,  and  the  Alice  referred  to  in 
mv  original  query,  must  be  derived. 

W.  M.  H.  C. 

"  WiTTT  AS  FuunnuB  Flaccus  "  (4*  S.  viL 
344)— The  lines  alluded  to  were  extemporised 
by  Sydney  Smith  on  seeing  Jeffrey  riding  upon 
the  animal  sjiedfied  at  the  end  of  them.    They 
an,  however,  inaccurately  quoted,  and  should,  if 
my  memory  serves  me,  run  as  follows : — 
"  Wit^  u  Hantloi  Fliceu^ 
Aa  great  a  Jacobin  as  Gncchtu ; 
A*  iDOTt,  but  not  aa  fat,  as  Baccbna, 
Seated  upon  a  little  jackau. 

F.  Glemtakes  WiuoH. 

Oxford  and  Cambridge  Clnb. 

The  verses  which  H.  B,  wishes  to  be  infurmed 
about  are  to  be  found  in  Lady  Holland's  Life  of 
Sydney  SmUh,  p.  203,  vol.  i.  L.  A. 

TsB  EoriL  AsBKtT  (4*  S.  vii.  355.)— The 
paragraph  referred  to  in  "  NoticeB  to  Correspon- 
dents "  appeared  in  an  obacure  sheet  called  the 
Eodemutical  OaxeUa  (or  Jottmal).  and  was  copied 
and  acknowledged  thence  br  the  Dailt/  Nmot, 
Standard,  and  Advetii»er.  Tne  reason  given  by 
the  writer  for  the  assertion  that  the  assent  to  the 
Irish  Church  Bill  was  null  and  void  was  that  no 
peers  were  present  except  the  royal  commissioners 
when  the  assent  was  given.  If  my  memory  serves 
me,  tbe  paragraph  (which  of  course  was  pure 
lubbish)  did  not  rest  the  objection  on  the  ground 
of  the  absence  of  the  bithopi.  I  have  reason  to 
believe  the  paragraph  originated  with  a  nolorioua 
pest  of  newspaper  editora,  whose  opinion  is  of  no 
authority.  Filiub  Ecolesia 

Haiss  of  Honoob  (i"'  S.  vii.  343.) — I  am  not 
iwaM  of  the  existence  of  any  aulhoriied  hat,  sudi 


as  Ebut  inquires  about.  If  he  will  favour  ma 
with  an  address,  I  wilt  try  to  collect  for  him  u 
correct  a  one  as  my  opportunities  allow,  either 
from  16S8  or  earlier ;  but  I  cannot  guarantee  the 
exact  accuracy,  or  more  eepeaally  the  fulness,  of 
such  a  compilation.  Such  a  list,  moreover,  could 
not  be  made  out  m  a  day,  ExRirainiBTTDE, 


"  0  Graron  I "  (jfi'  3.  viL  351.)— I  ai 
to  thmk  that  Bb.  Dixon  is  wrong  in  his  conjec- 
ture that  the  above  exclamation  has  anything  ta 
do  with  the  "  great  twin  brethren,"  Bomolns  and 
Remus.  I  have  always  understood  it,  as  wdl  w 
the  "Gemelli"  by  whom  the  Italian  peasants 
swear,  to  refer  to  tne  Dioscuri,  Castor  and  Pollux, 
who  were  placed  among  the  stars  as  Gemini  bjr 
Zeus.  Bong  worshipped  both  in  Greece  and  Italy 
as  the  protectors  of  travellers  by  sea,  they  wouul 
of  course  be  frequently  appealed  to  in  snddea 
struts ;  and  although  a  behef  in  them  no  longer 
exists,  we  find]  the  traces  of  it  in  our  now  aense- 
Abdhd.  WAiscar, 


RobkbtBlaib,  ihz  Author  ov  "  The  Gravb  " 
(4»  S.  iv.  28,  120,  164.)— Mb.  W.  B.  Cook 
(p.  120),  in  pointing  out  several  of  Blair's  plagi- 
arisms, mentions  one  passage  as  imitated  from 
Henry  More  of  Cambridge.  It  is,  I  think,  worthy 
of  note  that  in  Dryden's  Maiden  Queen  tne  same 
idea  occurs.  la  it  not  then  very  likely  that  the 
author  of  The  Oram  copied  not  from  More,  but 
from  "Glorious  John  himself.  The  latter  at 
least  is  the  better  known  of  the  two.  The  paa^ 
sage  I  refer  to  is : — 
."  I  feel  my  love  to  Philoelca  irithln  me 

Shrink  and  pull  back  mj  hfart  (nm  this  bard  tryal  i 

Bpt  it  moBt  lie  wbeo  ghiy  say)  it  iniui. 

Aa  cbildna  wading  IVoin  some  river'a  bunk, 

Fint  try  Uievrater  wr"-  ■■— --  '--■'—  '— ■■  - 

Tbaa  shndd'riuR  up  n 

And  itraight  a  Utile  f __ , 

mi  at  tbe  last  tbej  plunge  into  the  deep. 

And  paaa  at  once  what  tbej'  were  donbUuK  long." 

Act  V.  Scene  1. 
EllWABD  BiMBAULt  DiBniK. 

Obdebs  or  EineBTHooD  (4'^  S.  v.  vi.  paidtm 
vu.  100, 197,  346.)— If  S.  had  read  my  "sugges- 
tion "  with  more  attention  he  would  have  seen 
that  it  contains  the  answer  to  his  first  objectioD. 
^is  tender  feeling  with  respect  to  the  sovereign's 
prerogative  is  most  pruseworthy,  and  I  fully  agree 
with  nim  in  it,  for  I  have  come  of  a  race  who 
have  drawn  thur  swords  and  shed  their  blood  for 
more  than  one  century  wherever  their  sovereign's 
flag  has  been  unfurled  by  land  or  sea ;  but  theta 
an  dignities  which  neither  king  nor  kaiser  oaa 
confer.  "  The  king  can  make  an  earl  or  a  duke, 
but  God  alone  can  make  the  chief  of  Glenroy,** 
quoth  the  old  Highlander.  Some  may  value  w  >  1 1 
Dtniid  new  title  meh  from  the  mint;  others  prisB  S 


NOTES  AlfD  QUEKIES. 


C4<kS.TU.  UatMwTI. 


tiie  "  blue  blood  "  uid  Imp  p«di^TM.  Aa  for  tb« 
"modars-uitiqufl"  objsctKm,  thta  kaa  baen  du- 
ctuud  and  fuUv  uuwered  is  "  N.  fc  Q."  end  in 
jit  S^ttetator  b7  an  abler  pen  tbaii  bum.  No 
doubt  8.  can  £uja  tka  orde«l  an  Bennet's  Hill 
without  ftar,  bat "  EagUnd  holds  a  Himdrad  Miia 
wbo  an  jnat  aa  good  as  be."  Tbera  are  plent;  of 
"  gentlemen  "  in  the  United  Kingdom  who  would 
not  find  the  proofs  of  their  aeae  juartien  so  wry 
diflkult,  much  lew  the  "  four  grand  parents, 
unless  the  Eerslde'  College  demands  proofs  such 
as  would  tuit  be  required  in  the  strictest  judicial 
investigation,  when  life  and  honour,  to  say 
nothing  of  properlT',  were  in  the  balance. 

ClWBX. 
Porth-j^Aar,  Carnarvon. 

"  As  Cisn  Am  Nathan  " ;  ak  Old  Oxkui 
Epiaum  (4*<>  a  TiL  sal,  8Ga>— Sevval  v«nioB* 
of  this  epimm  upeand  in  "  N.  i:  Q."  2°^  S.  zL 
The  belt  IS,  I  Uuiik,  at  p.  S96.  I  gave  this  ver- 
ntm  in  ray  inxk.  The  ^i^ammaUtU,  but  placed 
it  amoD^t  anonvmouB  epigrams,  for  I  coola  find 
BO  sufficient  evidence  that  it  was  the  production 
of  "Jack"  Burton.  It  seems  t«  have  been  the 
common  pMotic«  to  ascribe  unacknowledged  Ox- 
ford epigrami  to  that  witt;  and  eccentnc  lad;. 
Of  the  epigram  on  the  deans,  one  of  your  oorr»- 
spondents  ^S*"  S.  xL  233),  who  matriculated  when 
it  was  in  circulation,  says: — 


In  regard  to  the  epigram  upon  Doctors  Nathan 
Wetberell  and  Cyril  Jackson,  it  may  be  int«reet- 
ing  to  add  that  the  lata  famous  &x  Oharles 
Wetberell  was  the  third  son  of  the  former.  T^e 
late  Dr.  RowdoiL  Refpatrar  of  tha  Univeiaty  of 
Oxford,  matemaUT  a  grandson  of  Dr.  Wetherell, 
used  to  say  that  it  was  Dr.  Wetberell  who  first 
remarked  tne  talents  and  abilities  of  young  FhiU- 
potts  (late  ffiahop  of  Bxeter)  on  his  continually 
stopping  at  the  Bell  at  Qlouceeter  io  hie  jonrnSTS 
from  Oxford  to  bis  deanery  at  Hereford,  PhiU- 

Ktt's  father  then  beli^,  as  is  well  known,  the 
idlord  of  that  inn.    Dr.  Rowdou  used  to  give 
the  e^grom  as  in  "  N.  &  tj."  of  April  23,  but 
varying  the  fourth  and  fifth  lines  thus — 
"  Sara  Iffitban  to  Cyril, '  Tou  oertsinlj  may, 
Bat  leavi  ms  only  my  little  oanul, 
._^ [;^^^.>.__,L - 


id  yon  may  look  after  the  sea.' 
Visa  Rose  Burton 


IS  an  extraotdlnaiy  powm, 
ft  kind  of  I«dy  Maiy  Wortley  Moatagu  m  Ox- 
ford of  hw  day. 

Any  one  wiahing  to  find  particulan  of  Dr. 
Wetherdl  would  do  w«ll  to  look  at  Sir  Alexander 
Otoke'a  JZuCmw  ^Os  CVb*«  Aamb  a  vols.  18S3. 
Maiiy  fartATMbiw  beta  abaol  Dr.  CyiU  Jadnen 


Uiss  Burton  is  etill  well  remeosbeied  tbers. 

EvwAKS  BowiKor. 
IS,  UHk  BtaahopB  StresL 
Two  em*B  (p.  321)  should  be  eonacted :  — 
"  Saya  tfathsn.  'Toa  may,  batn  I  nercr  eball; 

And  leave  yon  to  look  far  the  nb  *  (•■•)■" 

F.  C.  P. 

Bkhtchamt  (i"  S.  vii.  919,  342.)— I  beg  D-  P. 
to  accept  my  thuika  for  calling  m;  attention  to  a 
clerical  error  (if  it  be  not  a  misprint)  which  had 
escaped  my  notice,  I  did  not  mean  to  blanw 
with  thm  cross  crosslets  a  coat  which  uUker  bora 
nz,  or  was  eem^.  The  honest  truth  is  that  my 
note  was  written  in  a  great  hurrv — a  state  of 
things  of  which  I  will  tty  not  to  allow  the  rMai<- 
renoe  in  writing  to  "  N.  &  Q."  Aa  reapecta  the 
Lisle  coat,  I  must  confess  that  I  am  myself  anxng 
the  inexperienced  readers  to  whom  D.  P.  alfaide^ 
for  I  did  not  know  that  the  baaring  was  asstaned 
only.  I  am  obliged  to  him  for  the  information. 
HnnmfTsirm. 

LuicASHiBK  TnuxB  Halls  (S"  S.  vii.  76, 
144,  S48.) — Some  time  ago  I  made  inquiry  re- 
specting a  series  of  etchings  of  old  timber  honsee 
in  Lancashire  published  by  a  Liren>ool  firm.  To 
that  query  no  reply  was  obtained.  I  am  now 
able  to  supply  some  it«m8  respectinir  Hus  scarce 
Lancaahiie  I>ook  &om  a  catalogue  lately  ismted 
by  Mr,  Henry  Tonng.  Tliese  etching*  are  there 
deacrihsd  as  "  Views  in  Lsnea^ire  and  Oheshire, 
of  Old  Halls  and  Caatlea,  intended  as  illnstrntions 
to  the  County  History ;  from  pictures  by  N.  G, 
Fhilipa."  The  whole  series  oonmtttad  i^  twentr- 
four  engmTinga,  folio,  and  are  noted  by  the  botui- 
seller  as  "  very  scarce,"  and  "  prools  exoesBvdy 
rare."  A  amaller  editioa  of  the  views  was  also 
iasued.  They  were  "published  hv  Mr,  Philips, 
of  Chatham  Street,  Liverpool,  1S23,"  without  any 
accompanying  letterpress.  T,  T.  W. 

ELxrut  BmLLtMB  Pncn  or  Chablu  L  (4*^ 
8.  vii  55, 148.)— The  word*  of  the  will  referred 
to  ac«  found  in  the  will  of  Dame  Elinbeth  Bil- 
diard  of  Bouth,  in  the  county  of  York,  proved  on 
January  17,  1630 :—"  Item  to  Thomas  Snddaby 
four  eleven  shilliug  pieces  in  a  box." 

Your  coirespondent  of  oom'se  does  not  maan 
that  ang^  were  a  ciun  introduced  by  Oharies  L ; 
for  the  second  Sir  Christopher  Hildiaid,  in  Qnea 
Eliiabath'a  i«gn,  leavea  amougat  under  legataet 
to  Ihia  same  Eluabeth  Hildiard,  the  wife  of  his 
nephew  Chriatopber,  "  twenty  ai^At "  (s^ 

China  Uuqa  (4"  S.  vii.  73.)^Thts  tMte  it 
much  older  than  1760.    It  was  iatrodneed  into 
Queen  Vxrj  in  1689,  and  qpesdilr 
ible,  aa  nnmberiess  allnmoaa  to  ft 


4*  8.  TIL  Mat  M,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIE8. 


443 


in  Pop«'i  poetry  and  tho  l^actalor  ali»e  prove. 
"  Mutress  of  henelf  tliDiiRh  ehiiu  fall,"  a  firagment 
from  Pope  on  emy  om^i  tongue,  betosss  to  thia 
ntgft.  It  ia  cnriona  that  Macaolaj  sbould  atigina- 
tiaa  the  taate  foi  old  cluna  aa  "  a  invokwa  and  in~ 
elefiant  &wbion"  (iKrfory,  cap.  xi.),  and  atiU  mora 
BO  tlutt  he  ahonld  hare  wiittea  — 

*■  ET«n  >Uteameit  and  naml*  wan  not  (ihamed  to 
be  miawned  ■■  jndgei  ^  teapoU  mod  dngooi ;  and 
ntiiiata  long  coetinaMl  t«  repeat  tliat  a  fine  lad]'  Tiloed 
her  nwHled  gnta  potteiy  qolte  as  much  as  sag  Talaed 
her  monbin'.  and  mach  more  than  aha  raloed  her  hui- 
bend"(ffM.eap.xl]  — 

when  we  remember  the  Premier's  speech  on 
Wedgwood  a  few  yean  ago,  and  the  fine  colleo 
tion  oiF  china  whidi,  if  report  apeaka  true,  he  po»- 
seases.  Psuaiirs. 

Chaekb  tob  AatTE  (1",  2",  8^  S.  pamm.)  — 
Thb  cnriouB  charm,  whicn  ia  copied  mim  an  idd 
diaiTof  1761,  Btill  preserves  its  tndidonal  vitality. 
In  April  1871  it  was  recited  in  nmilar  worda  to 
a  friend  bj  a  poetbo/  near  Spalding :  — 

■■  Whoi  Jaans  earn*  near  Pilate,  He  tmnbled  like  aleaf, 
and  tha  Jndge  nked  Him  if  He  had  tta«  ague.  Ha 
answered,  Ha  nrftbcr  had  the  uae  dot  was  he  aOaid ;  and 
whasoeTar  bears  theia  words  Id  miod  aball  oaver  6ar 
agee  or  aeything  elae." 

The  aame  poatboy  preaented  mr  fiieod  with 
.  another  valuable  cure  for  ague,  whica  at  all  eventa 
ia  not  lacking  in  simplicity  :— 


into  your  hooae  by  another 
Pbuoiub. 


door  than  that 


tree,  cat  off  a  leek  of  joai  hair,  bui^ 

tiet  and  thea^  into  your  t ' "■" 

lat  Uumigh  which  yon  came. 


to  tlie  etatement  that,  alUtongh  an  heireaa  mifht 
cain  the  arms  of  her  family  into  that  of  her 
husband,  she  woe  incapable  of  conferring  the  right 
on  him  of  uung  her  father's  eteat,  Ac,  it  would 
appear  from  the  tomb  of  the  Bev.  John  Richards, 
rector  of  Wyte,  near  Winchester,  who  died 
March  11,  1686-9,  and  was  bniied  in  the  cloistws 
of  Winchester  College  near  the  door,  that  such 
wu  Dot  always  the  case,  as  the  crest  on  the  tomb 
b  that  which  belong|ed  to  his  wifu's  family,  vii. 
a  griffin'a  head  eraeea  for  Crooke ;  he  htiviiiK  mar- 
ried Katherine,  daughter  and  co-heir  of — Crooke, 
by  whom  he  had  two  sons. 

In  the  Herald  and  Omealogia,  Part  xxtn. 
August  1867,  Pv  4^1  will  be  found  two  pedigrees 
by  Kr.  W.  S.  £Uis,  ^kowing  several  instances  of 
husbands  adopting  their  vives'  croeta.         C.  R. 

Camp,  Alibnliot. 

"FuLLiE  WoBiKiH  LiBaaBT"(4'^  S.  viL 
401,) — Your  own  inadvertent  reading  of  "  Ander- 
son "  fw  "  Andrews^"  author  of  the  Analomie  of 
Battmum,  in  year  little  notice  of  my  Series,  eug- 
geata  that  it  nuy  be  as  well  to  record  two  mia- 
pints  that  have  caught  my  eye  since  istne  of 
Vaughan,    viz.,    "  exsoterics "    for   "  notenca " 


fvol.L  p.zziv),  aiid''precitot"  fi»"peeaat<n" 
fvoL  i.  p.  xIt.),  and  the  photo-chtom»-lith  emr 
of  "  Seething '  for  "  Scethrog."  These  will  be 
noted  m  errata-list  at  end  tj  voL  iv.,  and  uy 
others  that  may  be  discovered :  but  I  trust  yon 
will  spare  me  a  comai  in  "  N.  &  Q."  to  note  oborA 
onticipatively.  Tbb  EDiit)& 

MovKimra  ob  Black-bdobd  WitnTKa-PAflt 
(*»  S,  vii.  209,807,878.)— From  *e  recently 

Biblished  interesting  work  by  Edward  Dunbu 
Qnl«r,  of  Lea  Park,  Forres,  eotitted  Social  IAf» 
m  Tarmar  Dayt,  I  copy  a  f nmrol  letlerj  which  WM 
edged  with  black  as  lollowa  >— 
"  7di  Jamaa  Doobai  of  Inehbrok  Hous^  Caatlestewart, 
"Jannaiy^th,  1<B8. 
■■  Str,— I  do*  inteod  tha  fonerall  of  Uu>  CuunMs  of 
Horny,  my  mother,  upon  Wodn««d«y,  tba  17tS  of  Jannaiy 
instant,  to  whom  1  intieat  yoor  prewnce,  b«  eleTBD  ■ 
clock  ntt  DaiDnay,  from  tbence  lo  her  bariall  plate  fa) 
Dyke ;  aid  thia  laK  Chiiatian  daly  shall  verri*  much 
obleldge,  Sir,  yaw  awied  to  serve  yotw 

Black  wax  was  in  use  earlier  than  the  time 
given  et  the  last  reference.  I  havs  a  letter  from 
Mamuet  Ingleby  of  Ripley  Castle,  dated  Aug.  17, 
1682,  sealed  with  black  wax  with  the  Savile  arms; 
and  a  receipt  given  by  her  eistar,  Mary  Savile, 
dated  July  8,  1687.  This  may  have  reference  to 
the  death  of  her  father,  John  Savile,  £iq.  of 
Methley. 

Its  use,  however,  does  not  appear  to  have  been 
universal,  aa  her  brother  end  sisteis,  who  gave 
dmilar  receipts  about  the  aame  time,  seal  with  red 
wax.  C.  FoKB^si,  Sek. 


JoKif  DrEB(4'»  S.vii.  232, 353.)— Mb. 
Jackbof  aayt,    "  I  know  The   FUm*  weii,        i 
may  say,  "  I  know  the  country  well  to  which  por- 
tions of  Th»  Umo*  nlate."    On  page  136,  Oil- 
fiUan's  edition,  you  will  find  the  following  Unas : 
"  Ho^  Bi«adai>  slmy  aommlt  oace  I  oUmbad 
Afur  a  kidling :  Daman,  what  a  scene  [ 
What  various  views  onnomber'd  ^lead  beneath  I 
Woods,  towers,  vales,  dell%  elMEi,  and  torrent  flood*  t 
And  here  and  then  between  the  ^ly  rock!. 
The  broad  flat  sea." 

The  Brddden  is  a  liill  atandmg  partly  in  Shrop- 
ahire  and  partly  in  Montgomeryshire,  on  the  banla 
of  the  Severn.  I  have  been  up  it  a  dozen  times, 
and  on  the  clearest  of  days ;  but  as  it  lies  between 
fittf  and  sixty  miles  from  the  nearest  coast,  and 
other  ranges  of  hills  intervene,  you  will  not  wonder 
when  I  tell  you  that  a  aea-viaw  ia  not  amongst  the 
attractions  of  the  Breidden.  Dyer  left  some  m?e- 
cimens  of  his  artistic  work  in  Montgomery shira. 


notably  a  copy  of  Da  Vinci's  "  Last  Suppet,'' 
which  formerly  had  aplace  of  honour  in  tbe  old 
cborcfaatNewtoWB.   We  can  scarcely  wonderftat    r 
Tha  Fktet  is  not  very  extensively  read  ngwi  '  |  C 
ds^i,  wlun  wa  And  in  **  Iba  AqjnMiit "  on  tk» 


444 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


[4«»S.VU.  lUlSO.'Tl. 


flntpage  thatoueof  tHeBnbjecte  for  poett7is"Of 

tlie  GB8tniti(m  of  Ijusbs  "  I      Asxnr  BoBXBia. 

Onrcatiy. 

Ub.  JiCKSOR  admiraa  the  "  noble  poetty "  of 
OrongarBHt.  lliefoUowiDg  an  the  first  ax  lines. 
Wluit  does  Ms.  Jaoksok  think  of  "  Silent  Nfiopli, 
who  Im"  P  And  did  he  ever  see  a  "  ydiow  Ua- 
vat"? 

"  Silent  Nympb  I  with  earioiu  qn, 
Vnto,  the  purple  erenhig,  lit 
On  the  moontain's  lAntlf  ven. 
Beyond  the  nein  of  bniy  men, 
PuDting  Cdr  the  Gmn  of  thJnge, 
WhUe  the  yeUnr  fimt  tiiigi.''^ 

Jatdu. 

"Pk»  of  as  Asokl's  Wnro  "  (4*  S.  rii.  233, 

812.)— In  The  Tathr,  No.  163,  April  26,  1710, 

Ned  Softly  leads  the  following  to  Isaac  Bicker- 

fltaffe:— 

"  TO  WBA  OK  HRl  IKOOMTABABLB  rOBIU. 

"  When  dreeeed  In  Uorel  wraithi  70a  ihiae. 

And  tnne  jaai  toll  melodloiu  notes, 
Ton  eeem  a  deter  of  the  Nine, 
Ot  Pbmbiu'  aelf  in  p4 


"  I EUIC7  when  jear  tong  yoa  ilng 


Fori  eh!  It  wonnds  meiTkehia  diirt.' 
The  poem  is  then  dUcussed  line  bj  line.    Ned 


, igroudngv .„ 

Tonr  pen  wu  plached  from  Copid'e  wing. 


What  do  you  think  of  the  next  vene  P- 
'  Toot  pen  wu  plucked  from  Cuiud'e  wing.' " 
Isaac  replies:  "I  think  you  have  made  Cupil 
« little  goose." 

I  agree  with  Isaac,  hut  think  the  conetOo  mow 
sufferable  in  Ned's  Tones  than  in  any  of  the 
examples  cited  in  "N.  &  Q."  H.  B.  C. 

E.  t.  anb. 

Gbobsb  Lohdok  (4""  8.  -m.  235,  336.)— In 
1707  Geo^  London,  Esq.,  gave  10/.  towatds 
building  a  schoolhouse  in  the  parish  of  Kenfflna- 
t«i  (Lysons'  Middlaex  iv.  531)7 

Indenture,  dated  Feb.  19, 1713,  made  between 
"William  Talman,  of  the  parish  of  St.  Anne's  Wert- 
minstor,  Esq.,  and  Richard  Woodward,  of  Little 
EaJing,  co.  Middleaei,  Esq.  (eiecuton  of  the  will 
of  Qeonre  London,  late  of  the  parish  of  St  Martin* 
in-the-ffielde,  co.  Middlesoi,  Gent),  of  the  one 
part,  and  Samuel  Lynne  of  the  other  part  (Mid- 
rffcww  Rtgutnj,  1713,  No.  183). 

Fosttbfy  the  burial  of  Geowe  London  may  be 
«Dtered  in  the  registers  of  one  of  the  above-named 
parishes.  Can  any  of  your  readers  inform  me 
whether  Rebecca,  first  wife  of  lUchard  Wood- 
ward (married  about  1704),  was  a  daughter  of 
George  London  P  T,  D. 

IxnnsTRiBs  OF  Eholaitd  (4*^  S.  viL  200,  388.) 
Mr.  J.  R.  M'Culloch,  in  his  pre&ce  to  toL  i.  of 
Mariy  and  Searet  Traelt  on  hwtmtrce,  ^c,  re- 
priiledbs/atPoliUaaSetmonva^mdbyLord 
Opw^au,  18»-68  (p.  TiiL),  nmarka  that  Lewis 


Roberta'  tract.  The  TVeamre  of  Tragkk,  1641,  oon- 
taina  the  eatliest  notice  of  Manchester  as  a  east  of 
cotton  manufacture.  I  find,  howerer,  Maneheflter 
cottons  already  mentioned  in  a  pemphlet  pub- 
lished as'  early  as  1580,  namely,  in  A  PoUtigtie 
MoU  for  the  ktmour  of  th»  Pratce,  the  groat  jritfil 
of  the  pMioae  sUde,  ^.,  by  Rob.  Hitchcock,  Ltui- 
don,1680.    On  p.  26a  he  sap:  — 

"  At  Bone  In  Frannee,  which  ia  the  chtfeet  vent,  be 
■olde  our  EngUeh  wwes,  u  Welcbe  i  HutehMtei  Cot- 
tons, Noithanie  CteMii,  Whltet,  Leade,  *  Tinne." 

I  may  add  that  the  former  of  the  two  writeia, 
Lewis  Roberts,  in  his  Map  of  Commerce,  London, 
1638  (p.  231),  where  he  shortly  speaks  of  Man- 
chester, does  not  mention  its  cotton  manuEactons. 

"  Lucuhire  .  .  .  wherda  Haoohester,  an  old  town* 
loriefaed  by  tbe  indoetiy  of  the  Inhabitanti^  by  doth  of 

A9.  Buff. 

Honieh,  Germany. 

Sadtt  Wuubam  (4*  S.  yu.  102,  260, 336.)  — 
In  a  note  at  p.  23  of  Tumor's  QdleeUimt  for  tf« 
HtMlory  of  the  Town  and  Soke  of  GroMam,  4to, 
1806,  there  ia  a  reference  to  the  "MSS.  in  the 
Cottonian  Library,  Otho  D.  8.  Vita  S.  Wul&anni 
Episcopi."  Mr.  Tumor,  evidently  desirous  to  iden- 
tic SL  Wulfran  the  bishop,  said  in  the  book  of 
Peterborough  (which  perhaps  was  Leland's  an-  - 
thority  for  nis  statement)  to  have  been  buried  at 
Grantham,  wsa  referred  by  the  Rev.  J.  Brand, 
Sec  Soc  Antiquaries,  to  "  a  Teiy  scarce  book  en- 
titled Cataiogui  Sanctorum  ef  Gettomm  eoram, 
folio  1613,  OS  containing  some  account  of  "  Vnl- 
pbranius  Senonenms  Episcopus."  A.  0.  V.  P.  may 
incline  to  ascertain  it^the  first  above  relates  to 
other  than  the  Archbishop  of  Sens.       W.  £,  B. 

Enslibh  Dbscrhi  of  Dahibl  O'ConmsLL  (4*^  S. 
iii.  76;  viL  242,  349.)— Bilbo,  quoting  from  Fer- 

Cn,  says  that  six  persons  of  the  name  of 
lU  are  given  in  LandndmabSk.     Fergnscn 


Bows  AWD  CUBISBIS  (4""  S.  vi.  668;  vii  109, 
220,  330.)— I  beg  to  say  in  answer  to  T.  K.  T.  (at 
the  last  of  the  aboTe  references)  that  I  was  quite 
awan  of  the  different  opinions  that  here  neen 
held  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  difficult  word 
Abre^  in  Gen.  xli.  43.  The  Authorised  Veiuon 
has  "bow  the  knee";  the  Vulgate,  "ut  omnes 
coram  eo  genuflecterent "  (the  Septuagint  shirks 
tbe  word  altogether^ ;  Alexander  Geddes  m  Ms  new 
translation  gives  the  word  Abrech  nntraoslated, 
with  "bow  the  knee"  in  brackets;  and  there 
ere  very  ancient  authorities  for  the  comm(»i  ren- 
dering. Those  who  are  interested  in  the  subject 
may  see  in  Mr.  Barrett's  Sjfnoptit  of  Q-iticunu 
(i.  106)  a  sucdnet  aooonnt  of  what  has  been 
written  upon  it. 


*■"  8.  TIL  MAT  10,710 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


The  queetion  asked  in  "  N,  &  Q."  was  for  the 
marUat  mention  at  the  curtse; ;  and  until  &  gene- 
zallr  accepted  correction  of  the  preaent  Teraioa 
■hul  appear  I  thinlk,  with  all  deterenoe  to  T.  K.  T., 
that  the  reference  to  Gen.  xti  43  "  suits  my  pui- 
poee."  In  the  words  of  Bishop  Pntrich  upon  the 
pMiage:  — 

"  TJulm  we  understood  the  old  EeyptUn  Un^uage, 
I  think  w«  bad  u  eood  rest  In  tlu  Hebrew  derlvaUon  as 
In  anv  ether,  aecoi^s  to  em  ova  translation." 

RV. 

Thb  Zosuo  (4'»  S.  Tu.  344.)  — The  Hindus 
seem  to  hsTe  heen  the  earliest  to  give  a  character 
of  the  serenl  nlaoets.    The  Egyptians  and  B^ 

g'loniiuis  ODpied  from  thsm.  The  crosses  in  the 
indu  characters  are  the  Buddhut  croeaes,  which 
no  doubt  referred  to  the  equinox  and  the  sun 
(grossing  the  same.  The  seTersl  planets  have  all 
been  poetised  by  the  Greeks.  But  let  T.  F.  read 
full  accounts  of  these  matters  in  H.  Jennings's 
.BoMcrunont,  their  Sitet  and  Mysteriei. 

Zadkizl. 
"TsAKauiL  rre  Spirit,"  btc.  (i*"  S.  tiL  365.) 
These  lines  are  irom  Professor  John   Wilson's 
sonnet  entiUed  "  The  Evening  Cloud,"        D.  B. 
Balud  op  Ladt  Febrebs  (4">  S.  vii.  209,  S34.) 
I  have  a  US.  copy  of  this  hatlod.    It  was  com- 
posed, I  believe,  by  Sir  Thomas  Lawrence,  P.B.A., 
and  [ninted  for  the  benefit  of  a  distressed  person. 
J.  R.B. 
Jests  (i'^  S.  rii.  361.)  — The  clergyman  was 
sntidpated  at  least  eighty  years  ago,  m  the  tale 
of  "  The  Parson-Dealer  " ;  — 

-  Unlnckily  but  one  was  In  tha  rtril. 
And  he  the  verf  beat  of  all. 

What  should  be  done  ? 
JVeccntfau  nan  habtl  itg$. 
So  to  the  priert  he  ftota  and  begs 
That  be  woeld  vult  the  old  cione." 
Peter  Pindar's  WotU,  toI.  iii.  p.  141.   Dublin,  1792. 
FiizEOFKnrs. 
Garriek  Qub, 

DoTKB  Casilb  (4*  S.  Tii.  364^—1  cannot  re- 
ply as  regards  Dover  Castle,  hut  I  well  remember 
OD  my  ^at  going  to  London,  in  that  very  year, 
1822,  and  viuting  the  docks,  being  shown  at  a 
distance  a  gihbet  with  two  or  three  men  (pirates 
we  were  told)  dangling  underneath.       P.  X.  L. 

Placard  (4'"  a  vii.  389.)— This  word  is  Ya- 
liously  written, — piackardt,  placard,  or  placket. 
It  rignifies  the  lower  part,  or  extension  of  the 
stomacher ;  and  appears  to  derive  its  name  from 
being  a  piece  of  showy  embroidery,  like  apb^, 
or  plate  of  metal.  See  the  dictionaries  of  Bailey 
and  Aab.  F.  C.  H. 

"  StBXAK  OF  SiLVBR  Sba  "  (4*  8.  Tii,  390. J — 
I  think  Lord  Salisbury  referred  to  this  expression 
as  having  been  used  by  Colonel  Chesney  some 


weeks  before  in  a  mOitaiy  lecture,  but  I  ana 
anxious  to  learn  if  this  phrue,  often  quoted  ^nce^ 
was  original,  or  a  quotation  by  Colonel  Chemey. 
A.S. 
Epitkbis  op  ihr  Months  (4'^  8.  vii.  343, 419.) 
Another  veimon  of  the  February  proverb,  which 
I  have  heard  in  London,  and  I  think  also  in 
Eesex,  is — 

"Febrnsiy  flil-diteb, 
Black  or  white,  don't  Care  which." 

JaMXS  BBITtBir. 

Thb  Nxw  Hooit  iirs  tsb  Maito  (l"  S.  iv.  99.) 

Allusion  is  made  to  a  Devonshire  custom,  which 
may  be  found,  I  helieve.  all  over  England,  of  a 
young  gill  addresung  Ine  crescent  moon  when 
she  sees  it  for  the  first  time  after  Uidaummet. 


Bursleoi,  StaBbrdaUn. 

BuBTP  OB  Burp  (4'»  S.  liL  283,  870.)— Atten- 
tion having  been  drawn  to  tins  worn,  the  fbUowing 
quotation  from  the  opening  of  Hartsnome's  Salt^ia 
Antiqua  mar  perhaps  poaaass  some  interest,  what- 
ever may  be  thought  of  the  proposed  deiiv»- 

*■  Abdon  Barf  Is  the  most  elevated  of  tboeo  three  Shrop- 
shire nioantaUu  which  are  otuUv  tenned  the  Brown 
Oee  Hills,  or  the  Qee  Bills.  They  an  respectiToly 
caUed  Abdon  Bnrf,  or  the  ;Baif,  tbe  Oee  Bar^  and  the 
TltterstoDO.  The  prssent  one  dorivM  it<  diatingtiiahlDg 
■ppellatiTB  of  Abdon  ftom  having  that  little  village  at 
ill  fooL  It  la  difficult  le  sit  how  the  name  of  Barf  or 
Barf,  as  the  lower  orders  esU  it,  originated.  I  ant  In- 
ctlned  to  think  that  it  was  acqnirsd  in  consequence  ot 
the  vast  wall  of  etaat*  which  rarronnds  its  sammit,  in 
tbe  aame  way  as  the  Clee  Boif  taka  Its  title  ftom  tbe 
C.Brit.JluaifA,  aneDcIoaore.  Bar,{aC.Brit.Ir.  Com.and 
Gael  signiflee  a  Bommit  or  top,  but  the  fiirmer  darlvaHoit 
■eema  the  better,  as  appljdng  more  closely  to  tlie  extra- 
ordinaiy  remains  which  are  tbond  upwi  tbt*  emiasnoe." 
And  in  a  note  the  author  adds ; — 

"  There  are  two  fbrtreeses  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  period  ; 
one  near  Baschorob,  the  other  Inst  on  the  ontaide  of 
Sbropahin,  near  Here,  calltd  tbe  Berth,  baply  in  sUnaioa 
to  their  belDg  enclosed.  An  eminence  two  miles  aoatb  of 
Stoiuport  la  called  the  Bnrf.  Bnrva  Bank,  a  large  en- 
caatpinent  cloae  to  KnUl,  oo.  Radn.  Birth  Hill,  east  of 
Ga^niy  Banks  in  Glonoestenliiie.'' 

T.  W.  Wbbb. 
PonTT  BR  VicB  (4'^  S.  vii.  266,  380.)-It  is 


siglit,  n.  V.  141).)  So  also  in  the  other  tvro  pao- 
swes  where  the  phrase  is  used  by  Shakespeare 
(LowIb  Labow'a  LoO,  v.  1.  16,  and  A»  You  Ltks  11^ 
m.  ii.  364)  we  have  not  "  de  vice  "  but  "  devise,'* 
device."    According  to  Wedgwood,  the  fiul 


••flSle 


1IOTB8  AMD  QUBBI&iL 


[4*  S.  vn.  Mat  V^,  4X. 


iMgiM,  to  pitti.    Wedgvood  qnotM — 

"Vn  nobh  efettan  fc  davin," 
■ad  from  CtMOcai  {Somatmt  of  Rom,  S30)— 
"  WUh  IfiiMS  WTOsgU  at  poyol  dwyi." 

Jon  Awn. 
«  Thb  Aliren'  DBuaHT,"  ed.  1764  (4**  S.  tU. 
336.)— I  legret  to  ny  thtt  tbe  i^emice  to 
Loinidu  doei  not  fnmub  an  uiswar  to  mv  qaerj. 
I  tbJTiV  t&e  Editor  hu  been  misled  Ytr  ue  nmi- 
laiity  lietneea  the  title  of  the  woik  which  I 
pooMM  knd  t)i»t  meotioaed  hj  Ixtmidea.  Hj 
«mT  of  71*  ^NM*'  DtiigM  (bu  octavo  Tolnme, 
intt  enfTOTed  frontimrieoo,  pp.  S23)  wm  "piinted, 

CUiflhed,  and  sold  bj  John  SadlM,  in  Hurisg- 
I  Street,  Uvei^onl,  1704."  The  irork  men- 
(joned  \>j  LowadM  wm  pufaHdwd  In  London  in 
1752. 

The  octavo  copyef  the  edition  of  17fl6  (entitted 
^poUo't  Cabinel ;  or  the  Mutet'  Detighf),  -nluai 
^libited  at  the  Januaiy  meeting  of  the  Historic 
Society  of  Lunciwhire  and  Cheshire,  was  stated  to 
be  "one  of  the  very  few  extant"  With  the  ex- 
ception of  the  additi<n  to  the  title  thia  work  ia,  I 
pNmmie,  the  aame  aa  that  publiahed  in  17U ;  and 
my  query  isy  le  the  edition  of  17S4  alao  aoaree  ? 
Aa  my  copy  ia  imperfeot,  I  shall  be  k'**^  '^  ^ 


OoBBBlx  Faiolt  (4**  8.  vii,  343.)— Befening 
to  the  queriee  leepeeliag  the  Coisella  or  CorottUa, 
it  is  found  that  an  omiinon  oeooTa  in  (he  addiesa 
to  which  repllea  aSonld  be  tent  Attention  ia, 
therefore,  agidn  called  to  the  queries ;  and  npliee 
■ent  to  Bbt.  R.  C,  34,  Portland  Squaie,  Bibtol, 
will  be  thankftdly  leeetTed. 

Thj  Twkvb  CumiAinB  ot  ths  Ceowk  or 
8caxuj[l>  t«mp.  Edwabb  1.  (i*  a  vii.  363.)  — 
0.  D.  0.  will  find,  in  fia^'a  Siday  of  Otglmd, 
a  genadcwieal  t«bla  ot  the  twelve  Seote  eom- 
petitora.  Cearlw  F.  B.  Wuaam,  VUL 

Over  Tloinj^  St.  Irm,  HoaU. 

"Stbohwittws"  (4*  8.  vii.  iJOfl.)— We  have  an 
exact  equiralent  to  thia  Germaa  woid  (dven  by 
HKUtAHv  Ejxdt  in  his  charmiiu  "  Noteuts  ")  in 
"graM-widow."  JAitia  BunsH. 

OlATTOir  (4"  S.  vU.  8ftf)— The  word  Olatton 
U  a  Nortb'Couotry  word  for  Welsh  flannel  It  is 
ao  riven  in  Coles'  Bn^M  DigHmmy,  edition  of 
1066 !  and  in  Keieey'a  Dititiiman/,  edibon  of  1716. 
Aa  ■  name,  it  oecnra  ai  a  pariah  in  the  oonaty  of 
Hontingdon.'  {j.Qtajosa. 


Tiaa  name  may  be  componnded  of  A.-S.  diln, 
collis,  or  ttin,  septum,  and  gUAt,  milvusj  gUed, 
amcennB;  8w.  and  Q.  glatt,  IJevia,  or  A.-^.  glad*, 
•nmis,  rivulnfl ;  orit  maybe  •'.  9.  Latton,Lathom, 
Letton,  Litton,  Lntton,  Glutton ;  perhaps  etymo- 


lorically  eonnaeted  with  Lndham,  lAdhn^a,  Lrad- 
fbtd,  Lydfoid;  aad  with  CHadbwili  in  R.  "  if  , 
GUtjariTarandtewiiorHolMiMoIleni;  CHat^a 
river  of  Switseriwid;  fi«ai  Celtie  Imd,  Hi,  tmd  m 
aqua.  K.  8.  CxAsaro«K. 

«  It  did  kot  kBow,  poor  Fool,"  no.  (*•  8. 
viL  886.)— Will  be  found  in  a  poem  by  Lara  Ljt- 
tM,  entitled  Z%«  Dead  Qmu^. 

T.  K.  Tdtkiov. 

CnmlwUnd. 

"WSEIl    PBILOeoFKBSS    BATX    SOSX    TKSIK 

WoKST,"  Bia  (4*  S.  vii.  365.)~TUere  waa  oiNe 
upon  a  time  a  clever  finan^er,  the  notorion* 
OuTTtrd,  who  waa  not  of  that  opinion.  He  had 
not  the  good  fortune  to  please  that  terrible  geuDS 
the  first  Napoleon,  to  whom  these  ovBr-opulait 
army-<ontractora  were  obnouous,  and  being  one 
day  taken  to  task  by  him,  said:  "Nona  no  nooa 
entendous  pas,  ^re,  parce  ^ue  V.  M.  peose  qoe 
deux  et  deux  dot  vent  n^eessairement  toujoots  fairs 


..     1^  rar  jour."     Book  once  locked  up 

m  the  fort  of  Vincennea  by  older  of  N^mleen, 
and,  by  way  of  making  the  durance-vile  moie 
severely  felt,  not  being  allowed  either'to  read  ot 
write,  he  got  the  gaoler  to  porchaae  for  him  a 
large  number  of  pins,  which,  after  counting  them, 
he  threw  oa  the  ground  in  the  dark ;  and  stooping 
down,  he  set  to  work  to  pick  them  up,  not  resting 
satisfied  until  he  had  found  them  all,  and  then 
began  again.    Thia  be  related  to  me  himaelf. 

P.A.L. 
"Wheut  Italte  doth  Poison  wast,"  etc. 
(4'^  S.  TiL  3G6.)— E.  B.  E.  wiU  find  the  lines  she 
wants  in  a  ungular  book,  the  tille-paf^  of  which. 
I  copy.  They  are  set  forth  in  French  and  English: 
the  former  I  give,  for  she  has  the  latter,  as  they 
appear  in  my  copy  of  the  work :  — 
"  Clnsnd  Italia  wra  udi  poison, 

AnelMarra  sun  trihiaoD, 

Et  Is  Fraaoe  saoa  giitrre, 

Lon  sei»  le  Diande  nni  tene." 
I  was  reading  the  book  not  long  since,  and  tike 
oration  in  r^ud  to  France  is  well  worth  atten- 
tion.    It  quotes  Uontaigne,  who  says:  "Mettei 
trois  Francois  aux  dessert  de  Lybie,  ils  na  seront 


Charles ix.:  "  It  is  given  by  nature  to  the  Firach, 
that  if  they  cannot  find  an  enemy  abroad  they 
will  make  one  at  home."  Burely  they  seem  to 
be  little  changed  now  for  the  better. 

"  A  Oemin  Diet,  or  the  Ballince  of  Europe :  irlweii 
th*  Fowo  and  Waakuw  Qloiy  aud  Beproob,  Vntnes 
and  Vices,  PInit/  and  Want,  Advantages  and  DeltGt^ 
ADtlqnltv  and  Moderaea,  of  all  Kidgdoais  and  9ulsa  <f 
Chrlstaodom  an  impaitiallj  paiied,  at  a  Bolcai  Cnarm- 


**S.T1I.Mat».71.] 


NOTES  AKD  QUEBIEa 


44? 


tioa   of   Som   Otama  Prfnees,   in   Sandir   Bbibont 
Ontiant,  Pro  and  Con.    H*d«  flt  for  tba  Mwiduin  of 


tut  to  be  Bold  at  bu  Sbop  at  the  Plincea 

Pinli  Chnrch  Tard.    1668." 

E,  Ixmtoz  BoTD,  F.S.A. 
3G,  Clenland  SqaiT%  Hfde  PtA. 
"Thh  kosx  I  i;uBir  thx  lbsb  I  thibk  1 
mow"  (4*  S.  vii.  366.)— Wai  not  tho  fint 
Kothai  of  this  sentence  the  allwiM  Socrates,  who, 
in  answer  t«  aome  Sophists  who  pretended  to 
Imow  eveiythiDg,  eaii :  "Am  for  me,  all  I  know  is 
thatlknowooUiiDg"!'  F.  A.  L. 


denUrahowaitBliteialmefimDgBndthatin  which 
LoidLjtton  nses  it.  I  un  sure  that  1  have  seen 
it  thus  used  b^  Spenser  in  The  Faery  Quan,  but 
cannot  jnat  now  find  the  paasage  or  paaBsRes 
where  it  occnre.  I  am,  however,  corroborated  ojr 
Webster,  who  ^vea  "achievement"  as  the  nn- 
vmrj  signification,  and  refers  to  Spenaer.  The 
word  is  certainljr  to  be  met  with  in  Tha  Ihtty 
Queen,  expressing-  knightly  valour.  D.  B. 

Hkhw  Massm  de  li  Tudb  (4"  S.  vi.  46, 117, 
248,  349.) — I  had  the  pleasure  of  communicating 
to  "  N.  £  Q."  (p.  849)  some  pwtionlars  relating 
to  Henri  Masers  de  la  Tude ;  my  note  including 
a  pasBBge  from  Mercier'B  Seta  iVcters  of  Parit, 
London  ediUon  of  1800,  to  the  eShet  that 
thebronie  hand  belongioR  to  the  statue  of 
Louis  XV.,  erected  on  the  place  named  after  tiiat 
monarch  (and  enbseqnentlj  "De  la  Concorde"), 
was  in  the  poBseeaon  of  I«tude. 

Quite  recently,  on  turning  over  the  pages  of 
Tol.  iil  No.  6,  of  Tkt  Pam/Udeir;  pnntod  by 
A.  J.  Valpy  at  London  in  1814, 1  came  across  — 

"  Thg  Life  of  Henri  Masen  da  Lalade,  who  waa  im- 
priaoned  Thii^-flTe  ywra.  To  which  la  addod  »ome  Ac- 
connt  of  the  Butille  [nerer  publiihed  in  this  conntr;]." 

And  oa  jiemsing  the  pamphlet  thus  designated, 
Z  found  it  to  be  a  prfcU  taken  from  the  French 
publication  of  17^  mentioned  as  "now  very 
ecaree." 

The  pamphlet,  evidently  written  by  some  one 
who  had  a  personal  knowled^  of  the  famed 
prisoner,  concludes  thns :  — 

"  When  I  Mir  Latade  in  1801,  he  ma  aeventy-uz 
Tenia  old,  itrons  and  active  for  Ma  age.  He  bad  beftira 
him  on  a  table  all  bii  toola  and  muaioal  iiutrnmcnta,  and 
in  the  middle  of  Ihem  the  hand  of  the  bronze  atatn*  of 
Louii  XV,  which  stood  In  the  Place  da  la  Concorde,  and 
be  explained  them,  and  told  the  story  of  hia  wondeifnl 
escape  tiom  the  BaitUle,  iu  a  apirited  and  intereatiiig 
nsDner." 

This  passage  is  confirmatory  of  the  correctness 
of  Meroer's  announcement  of  the  destiny  of  the 
broDze  hand.  The  "tools"  mentioned  above  I 
Bwume  to  be  those  which  Latude  and  his  com- 
panion, D'Al^re,  made  for  use  in  working  theit 


mty  out  of  bondm ;  the  munoal  Inateumuits,  no 
doubt,  "a  flageolet  which"  Latude  "had  con- 
trived to  mak^  and  which  helped  to  lij^ten  msny 
a  weary  hour  (see  pan^hlet  under  notice) ;  as  I 
find  thetMn  noted  tbat — 

"  the  loiie-bddw  and  the  tUnss  th<7  mr*  MOMlled  to 
leave  wen  pnsemd  In  Ibe  ArAlrea  of  tb«  BaMjIIe,  and 
were  pmaented  to  I^tode  In  tlw  year  ITB9,  tb«  day  sAsr 
that  foitreaa  waa  taken  Iqr  the  people." 


SaTMoafa,  C.S. 

ATBES,  F8EBH,  AMD  FMAB,  StmiTAMES  (4'*  8. 

vU.  386.) — Might  I  suggest  to  your  correspondent 
Sp.  the  Norse  perscoal  names  Ari  (a  servant)  and 
F^eyr  (the  name  of  the  deity  symbolizing  the 
sun),  as  afibrding  a  more  probable  explanation  rf 
the  origin  of  these  surnames  F  The  former  would 
also  account  for  the  name  Eyre.  It  seems  pro- 
bable that  the  form  Ayrea  may  have  been  derived 
from  a  place-name,  p«rluips  orinnalljr  used  ellip> 
tinJly  in  the  poaseesive  case.  This  is  what  Fer- 
guson suggBBts  in  ro^ard  to  Scandinavian  pKipsr 
names  eupplemented  with  the  letter  «.  VHiy 
should  we  unite  monks  in  holy  wedlock  in  order 
to  produce  spurious  descendants  P 

J.  C.  ROGEB. 


ft.UnVtM.wvat. 

HOTES  OH  BOOKS.  XtO. 

i  Lift  of  Anihimy  AMea  Cooptr,  Fint  Etrt  of 
ahifttOm,  1621-1688.  Bf  W.  Ji.  ChrHths  U-A., 
fbrmeclv  Her  Uaicety'a  UlnMer  to  the  Anrentliu  Coo- 
ftdnalion  and  to  &uU.     In  Two  FoAimm,    (Ha>^- 


it  ianott«bewondendattbateDdeavolinafaonUbe  made 
to  do  Joatloe  to  one  to  whom  scant  Jnsllca  baa  htthoto 
bean  awaided,  Anthony  Ashley  Cooper,  fltst  Earl  of 
Shafteabiiry.  That  Hf.  ChiiaUe  bu  anoceeded  in  hit 
attempt  i*  not  matter  of  SDrprls^  seeing  Uiat  be  came  b] 


1SB9,  Hr.  Chrlatie  pnblided  the  fint  volome  of  a  rimilar 
worir,  wldch  bronght  down  Sbafteabaiy'a  LiA  to  the 
Reatoratlon,  liMinded  etaiedy  on  the  papers  piesarved  at 
St.Qilsi'ailowbichtbepreaaatearlhadftivenhl 


Iwni — foanded  on  the  vallona  eaUeotioor 


tioeed,  an  the  Locke  Fapeia  in  the  poaasaaiui  of  tbe  Earl 
of  Lovelace ;  the  Papen  of  Hr.  Tbynne,  afterward!  Lot^ 
Wcymoaib,  with  whom  Sbaftetbnry  waa  nearty  con- 
— .,.A  \... : — .^  gQj  which  are  in  the  poaeaeaion  of 


Sle 


448 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[1*3.TIL  MiTSO.'Tl- 


oar  SUta  Pipir  Office.  It  cid  warcdy  then  b«  m&ttar  of 
wonder  thkt,  with  anch  origin^  aourcM  of  informatioa, 
■ndxiclii  hero  w  SbaftflabnTf — of  whom  CharluII.iaid 
dut  he  kaeir  more  law  than  iay  ot  his  Judges,  aDiil  more 
dirbii^  thin  aay  o[  hEe  bishops — snd  considering  how 
pnanliKntl;  he  Bgared  in  the  great  drama  of  hb  time — 
Mr.  dlriatie  shoold  have  produced  a  book  which  will 
not  onl7  be  read  with  pleasure  and  Interest  at  ths  present 
womeot,  bnt  bids  ftlr  to  take  a  permanent  plaoe  ia  averj 
hitforloU  library. 

7%t  Lift  1^  Sir  WalttT  Seott,  Bart.  Abridged  from  tin 
lana  Work  tw  J.  O.  LodAarl.  fTiA  a  pnfatan 
£(ll>rirJamcaR.Hope3oott,Q.C  (A-ftO-ffiuk.) 
This  new  edition  ol  Lodthart'a  own  abrtitemeot  of  his 


dellghtM  blDgraphv 
hitherto  much  less  ki 


or  his  great  fitt 


jiitdi 


1  gracefol  and  toncbing  letter  to  Hr.  Glai 
writing'-"-"—" -  """    -     " 

light,  a: 

•bcidgmsot  <^  it  pnblished.  We  trust  this  new  edition 
iriU  mMt  with  the  circulation  it  dcnrres :  for  we  know 
no  book  which  a  hllier,  anxious  to  derdop  an  honest  and 
nMnlj  diaractet  in  a  son,  conld  p«t  into  Ills  hand*  with 


...w^  by  a  g,^,^^  , — r  „  - 

•tone,  who,  writing  to  Mr.  Hope  Soott  in  It 
4lien«*t  delight  -'  -'--^- '--'-■•- 
reaung  tlie  largi 


n>  Elnunls  of  FtyeMogg 

Sdittdaitd  '''-— -*--  - 

6,  Dr.  G. 
FbiUdelph! 


K  Prfucipbs  ofBaukt. 


Fotaik  Edition.     Om 


rrabit  ailtrtd. 


PhiUdBllAI-     -- - , 

ir^iTovrd,  amt  nlnTgtd  tf  Johann  Gottlieb  Dreaalar, 

late  Kactor  in  the  Normal  School  at  Bantioi,    7V«uu- 

lalidfiim  tit  Gemua.    (Parker.) 

The  trmnslator  of  this  work  finding  himself  laddoDly 
In  want  of  a  Hanoal  of  PsrcholoCT,  which  should  be  at 
race  mtematie,  iotelllgible,  brid;  plaoaible,  and  above 
all  tlunn  SDggesttve,  and  finding  no  Engiiah  treatise 
whidi  furalled  all  the»  conditions,  selected  ths  Ltia-biKk 
if  Piydahgie  of  Dr.  Beneke  for  translation  i  bnt  even- 
tuaUy  adopted  the  compandinm  of  that  aathor's  theorr 
by  Kane  and  Dresaler.  The  translator  data  not  identi^ 
hjoiaelf  with  all  Beneke's  vievs,  bat  pmnts  out  In  his 
introdnction  the  Inganoi^  with  which  B<neke  amilied 
it  to  the  slnridation  of  Logic,  Het^ihysiea,  Ethics,  Law, 
PoliUos,  Mental  Disease,  and  Education. 

Thx  Eet.  Edward  Wiltok, — It  was  with  deep  regret 
fbat  we  saw  in  The  Gtuirdiau  the  annonnoement  of  the 
death  of  the  Rev.  Edward  Wilton  of  West  Lavington. 
Mr.  Wilton  was  ewciallj'  qnalified  to  write  on  all  ge- 
nealogieal  and  heraldic  questions,  was  a  frequent  contri- 
butor to  our  colomna,  and  sa  iatereatiog  paper  from  his 
pan  on  the  Swan  Song  of  Parson  Ayerr  will  be  found  in 
out  pieaent  uumber  {ante,  p.  433).  Bv  Mr.  Wilton's 
death,  which  took  place  on  the  1th  of  tbls  month,  Wilt- 
ahlre  has  snatained  a  real  loss. 

Tbb  DntTEitsiTT  or  SroASBUBa.— Under  the  autbo- 
ri^  of  BaroD  Ton  EUhlwetter,  cItII  goTemar  of  Alsace,  a 
eommitte*,  consisting  of  Lord  Ljtton,  Mr.  Hepworth 
Dixmi,  and  olhera,  lias  been  Ibrmed  in  Limdon  to  collect 
and  forward  such  olToilngs  for  the  librarj  of  the  Cniver- 
tity  of  Strasbnrg  as  tbdr  literair  and  sdsntifie  brethren 
m»j  be  pleased  to  make.  All  books  of  a  suitable  sort 
will  be  accepted.  Antboi*  ars  inrited  to  present  copies 
of  (heir  works,  and  pubUahen  sdeetionaAwn  thdr  liata. 
BwMta  of  learned  bodlea,  reprinta  of  publlshhig  aodetiea, 
■nd  dai^ieates  from  old  librariea,  will  be  welcome.  Far- 
«als  ahonld  be  sent,  and  communications  addressed,  to 
If  r.  mebolas  TrUbner,  60,  Fatemoster  Row. 

ToB  PniLOLOOiCAi.  SociETT.— Professor  GoldslUcker 
Is  named  as  the  new  Fresidoit  of  this  society. 


A  FLJUTN  cast  of  the  Tablet  of  Canopna,  with  the 
trilingual  Tusion  in  Hieroglyphs,  Greek,  and  Demotie, 
has  arrived  at  ths  British  Masemn.  It  baa  been  pre- 
soited  by  the  Ehedire. 

Mb.  Jahes  GbAut,  late  editor  of  the  Mondns  AAxr- 
(iMr,  has  neailvcompleted  bis  new  History  of  the  Kews- 
paper  Press.  The  chapter  upon  the  Jtfomtujr  ChrofuicU 
will  be  fall  of  cnrioos  rerelations. 

Mr.  Ahdbkw  Akdrkws,  anihoi  of  '  The  Histo^  t^ 
British  Joumaliam,"  la  about  to  publish  in  TKt  atm- 
pap^  Preu  a  trauslatioD  of  "  Histoire  do  la  Fnasc,  ea 
Angleterre  et  lux  £tata-Unis;  par  Cucheral-ClangDy, 
Anden  Rddactaur  en  Cbef  dn  GmstitMlioineL" 

Taa  Tbakes  Ehuahkheht.— Mr.  W.  H.  Smith,  M.P. 
will  shortly  bring  forward  his  motion  on  the  aabject  of 
proierviw  oertun  land,  reclaimed  from  the  rivn-  at 
Whitdiall,  as  pleasare-gronnds.  It  is  greatly  to  be  de- 
sired that  the  member  for  WseUniuster  may  be  aapportad, 
■s  last  year,  by  a  majority  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
and  to  such  an  e:itentaB  to  prerent  all  idea  of  any  com- 
promise which  would  sacrifice  the  interests  of  tbe  pnbUc 


SOCIRTT    OP    AHTiq  IT  ABIES. — ' 


■  exbibitiiig 


BOOKS   AND   ODD   VOLUMES 

D  TO  FITBCHiaB. 

rUxlUIovliiclioiiki  tabe»tAiM 


9  "  COVUS." —  We  )uae  been  reminded  by  a 
., Aattkeotutt   '  -       -~  .        . 

r^ptartd  it  _.     , 

SUM  bg  Lord  LyUdloTi. 
StB  Jomi  Masoh'b  DncEKDANTs. — The  fufy  op- 

peartd  at  p.  366,  and  a  r^y  a(  p.  420  tflhepre—nl  po- 

Eahtb  walks  OB  Earth.— Qois  ii  rrferred  to  our 
S"  S.  It.  112,  173;  vUi.  93,  for  iaforaation  TeatHI-v 
thii  inKTipiiotiatSfelroMeanditin^maedamiA&r,  WOliitm 
BiUinst. 

E.  B.  mil  find  a  eery  fidl  Hit  of  Home'l  pnUicatwu  ia 
Sobn't  ediliom  n/"  Lowndes. 

W.  A.  B.  C.—Dr.  GIniitirg't  anrh  on  Ths  Moalnte 
Stone  if  psblithed  liy  Zoiijimaai.  A  neie  editiim  it,  vc 
belieee,  nearly  ready. 

jAinEE  received. 

"tax  SattuBB  OF  pARirAsaQs "  (ante.  p.  410)  ii  If 
WUliam  Woty  :  sm  "  X.  &  Q."  4>o  S.  IL  479, 198. 

R.  W.  Biltna  (Worcester).— rilt  AtWsATr  of  Ot 
softVicoI  parody  Eikon  Baailike  Deatera,  ISM,  wis  hf 
ji^red  afier  mmcteMtfiiU,  >■  «  y.  *  Q,"  S^  8.  ir.  U^ 


*»8uTn.  MiTaO,71.] 


NOTES  AND  (JUEBIES. 


THE  SACRISTY. 

A  Magmitte  of  EecUtiattical  Art  and  ZHtrature. 


Comtek  in  oc  So.  I. :  — 
Tha  Complgtion  of  St.  Fanl'a  Cuhednd  (lUastTBted). 
The  Symboliim  at  Animals  in  CbriatUn  Att.  Bj  Hbct 
B.  EoKi,  of  Cologne,  and  the  Editor.  I.  Tha  Fox.  The 
Story  of  »  Stolen  M9.  from  the  Royal  Library,  Faria. 
By  S.  BABnro-GocLD,  H.A.  The  Bareaaa  Hoaala.  By 
tLW.Twtaa.  Oa  Certain  KcfingeataUons  of  the  Bleued 
Virgin  Mary,  with  ■  chUd  on  cither  linee.  Sketchn  in 
Fonign  Churches.  I.  Dinint  Som«  Tbooghti  on  Mo- 
dem Pariah  Cbnrcbes.  The  Proper  Tinta  for  Freacoea 
and Embnddery.  Haill  Tme  Body  (.^k  F<rw-).  The 
Andent  Parinan  Hdody,  The  Corioaity  Comer.  L  A 
Liturgteal  Carioiity.  The  Empty  Socket ;  A  Talmudio 
Ltgaii.  KcTieva  of  Booka,  Architectural  Notlcea  (St. 
ia,0>f)ird). 


NOTES    AND    QUEBIES 


NOTES  owf  QUERIES  may  bi  procmnd  by  ordtr  of 

mry  BookttStr  and  Ifemmaa,  or  of  l3u  PiMMtr, 


W.  O.  SMITH,  48,  WeUinglon  StreM,  1 


I,  W-C^IC 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'^a.Tii.  iutw.ti. 


■I7XHIBITI0H   of  the   SOCIETY   of  BEITim 

OPBS  trrm  nlnt  •-■n.  mUl  ■'■"'■     *  .i"'-"™  i- 


TBOS.  ROBERTS.  Bt 


BIBUOTHECA   AMERICANA. - 

IkilHi  ani»lnl>(  u  tItmrdlnuT  Colleniaii  c 
iKilj  CM  Oh  E»rii  Ulilonr  ml  CotagJjUon  QfOi 


SJ 


HAEPER'S    CATALOGUE   of    BOOKS, 


mHE    LATE    PR0FE8S0K   DE    MORGAN. - 


riRAND  PDMPBOOM  HOTEL,  BATH,  oppoait 
It  ihi  AHn  oiardi.    niiBT-ci.ABB  xcootatoaoios 


nroiQEaTION.— THE  MEDICAL  PROFESSION 

H^tgMhuuitsn  Ron,  BnaitU  S«a>n.  ub4iib. 


nJld  ■UTtont  0> 

■DCtHRFORII  >  CO..  1 


SAUCE.— LEA    AND    PERKINS. 
"the  ohlt  eooD  aiucx. 

IniFrmi  till  iRatiB  nd  alb  UfsUon. 
rSBITAIiBD  FOR  PiaOAMCY  AlfD  TLATOrR. 

Aik  for  "IiBA  AND  FIOSBINB'"  aAtTCB. 
BEWARE     OF     IMITATIONS, 

•ndlH  U»  Sunuof  LEA  AND  FERRIHS  on  >11  botlla  and  Itbeti. 


THE  HEW  VEIiTTM-WOVB  CLITB- 
HQOBBPAPSB. 


FAETSIDOE  AND  COOFEB,  19S,  Flsrt  S«i«rt, 
Comer  of  Cluncecf  Laoe. 


iM Ken  ■tbOwMrUBMn- PaHBI 


n  nw*rttJ,fttf  Lher 


i£?^S2Ut^7:^s::!ir« 


PAKT^ZDOS    AND    C0O7S&, 

MANUFACrORTSO  STATIONBBfl. 
IBB,  Fleet  Street  (Comer  of  Cluuioety  Lane). 


nOTR  PA1'ER.CmmDTBIiifl,lf.,lj..  3«.HHlldU.T*rTTun. 
EIIVBLOFH,CnviiorB1n,lt.M..M.U.,u4U.N.IWl.eM. 
TBBTBHPURirTRLOPE,«tthEllhIiiii(irU».lI.»«lg*. 
STRAW  PAPZa-Inipnnd  nalUr,  M-M.  vtr  nam. 


;DEKVKLOPBS.U.i>e 


TCtTED  UNESNOTE,  ttal  B 


BXBHOll  PAPER.  Mail,  ti.  pa  iHmiRided  ditto.  «t.tJ. 
■GHOOL  BTATIOHEBT  •aniUad  SB  lb*  BoM  IUiB«l  UTBL 

niulnMl  Priu  LM  iilifiatmaii,  Dwwk  anm.  ■MUmut, 
CuliwU,  Pdrtan  BoUa,  WritJu  Chk,  rartnll  AUiuu.  k*.,  foM 


"OiO  ENGLISH"   FURNITURE. 


109,  rLEET  STREET,  E.a    EiUblidnd  1782. 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANQINQS. 

BdtMIni  tl-rmrt  Oi  HROCADRS.  DAVABKB,  ud  OOBKLDt 


OOZXZirSOX  and  LOOK!  (late  Henliis)t 
DBCOBATOBS, 

1D9,  FLEET  STEEET,  LONDON.  EaUblklix)  17R. 


TOBNE'S  POMFEIAN   DECOBATIONa 
ROBERT   HORNE, 

H01»E  I)ECOnATCai,ud^AjroK.aAN0inO 


OitltitAj  Ibi  Eiiiof  Ililr. 


pHE    NEW    GENTLEMAS-S    GOLD    WATCH, 
TlmiWWchciliiniiuiiTiiolatiiirBKcJalRgTCIV.  .  [Q 


i'^B.VU.UATiT.llJ] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


LOSDOS,  aATVSBAT,  MAT  S7,  ISTI. 


CONTENTS.— N"  178. 

N0TB3:-~a*11cs  ud  LetMn  of  Buna  lately  dlHOTerad, 
MB  — Lines  by  Sir  John  BargojDS,  4fil  —  l^rT  QuMn  ot 
of  Sooti,  tis-Ii.  —  aenAil*rtQeiaa*,lb.~^"rinQttta 
Ajir"  — A  TjpogriphkaU  Odditj  —  8»gg»r  —  A  Qhott 
Bmij  — Jiiiiiui,4i£. 

QDSRIESi  — FnuiciB  and  Juniiu,4AS  — Child  bora  on  tlie 
Anniverorj  of  Its  PmrenU"  Wodiliiig-dw— DoTB— Dnini ; 
(U  HreniDE  PRrtr  —  "  BiflTTbDdr'i  Bailoan"  —  "Tha 
frttfnl.PorouplnB  "  —  Unde  dertvMur  "  OUidb  " !  —  Hoian 
Amu  —  Sir  WllHud   Jonn's  AlcdO  Ods  — 8ir  Bobert 

Ber.U  B.  HUurin  -  HinWiu*  Piinter.  (hw.  Cb«lei  I. 

—  Tha  Pirtt  Book  of  Muolaon—Orld,  -lIsMm."  lili. 
Wt:  "B«nlgnk>r"  —  Sir  Staeben  Prootor  —  Qaotatton 
wiiilfil      flniiniihflimil  nf  ritiiiii      riiiniin  In  Bbdlir 

—  Soiuut  Qiuiieii— "Tha  TbnDdei«r~— Topognph; — 
"  'nw  Worid'i  Judgmmt,"  tea. 

KBPLIB8 :  —  German  Btjmologiail  DieHoDiries,  4Ga  —  Ei- 
tnonttiuiT  Lennd  from  Galnsbuivh.  «T  —  The  Latt«r  of 
'-8X''ei|ilMnad,tf«-BUnk  kwi  Wink,  WO-BriCiiih 
S^the-Anned  Cbariota,  WO  —  Tha  Complelion  of  Bt, 
Fral'i,  «0  —  The  Bookvonn.  461  —  Seripiiti  or  Chrislmu 
Ftaoe*  -  STdnuT  Godalphin  —  Wraomtcr  Anni— -  Baton  " 
Nicbot*oa;  Jubn  Dalnmple- "Bairt  of  Hewtrai"  — 
"UghtofLifihta"  — "TbeWind  bu  ■  Laneiuet^"  £0. — 
Bheanrart—TivTerla"  Grata  Herfaall '  — Hemorial  Tema 
OD  tha  Number  of  Dv^in  tb«  Uontbi— TbeOldcat  liuu 
in  England— TbaPboeali  Throne:  BTron-Engliih  Veni- 
flcatlon  —  Hoaemary  used  at  Puparali  — Gaoi^  Bd*ardi 


BELIC9  AND  LETTERS  OF  BUBSS  LATELT 
DISCOVERED. 

Mr.  U'Dotrall,  the  autlior  of  tiie  intetMting 
Tolnme  aotitled  Sim*  m  DtimfnmilUre,  haa  lately 
discoTered  &  relic  of  Buns  in  addition  to  the  many 
othen  that  he  eniimerat«e  in  his  work.  It  maj 
be  worth  while  to  record  in  "  N.  &  Q."  his  state- 
ment, which  ia  as  follows :  — 


rtint  of  ClcMbani  to  ung  orer  hla  ai  „  , 
be  might  test  then)  bj  her  rich  voice  and  good  miuical 
tute.  It  i>  irdl  known,  too,  that  the  bardentertained  a 
hi^  reipect  ibr  Kirsty  ;  but  wa  were  not  af  are  till  lately 
that  be  had,  in  evidence  of  this  reeling,  presented  her  with 
the  copy  of  Fdihw'i  SigM  Ttiimg/iU,  which  he  often  pon- 
dered aver,  and  from  which  he  repeatedlj'  qaot«d  in  his 
GomapDndance.  This  yolnme  he  gave  to  Un.  Flint, 
with  the  remark:  'Tak  that,  Klratyi  I  hae  got  more 
•ratlmentaliam  ftom  that  book  than  Aom  an; 


tha  khid  I  erer  read.'    KiraW,  aa  maj  be  well  conceived, 

*~!attiied  tha  Tolnia,  and  when  at  one  time  asked  to  di»- 

M  of  it,  dedana  solanuilr, '  I  wad  jnat  ss  sane  amoist 


pairt  wi*  iIm  BiUe  itael'.  aa  wi'  the  bank  gien  to  me 
«'  his  ain  ban'  1^  "r.  Banu.'  But  to  a  neighbonr  who 
knew  ber  well,  and  paid  much  attantioa  (0  her  In  her 
old  age,  Hi.  John  Cottart,  ahe  leat  the  volnme  in  ISSH, 
with  the  asHirance  that  at  her  death  it  was  to  become  his 
propertr.  Hra.  Flint  dying  a  few  moathi  afterwarda,  it 
lamalued  with  Hr.  CoUart,  who  left  it  with  na  a  f^ 
dsTB  back,  with  a  request  that  »a  would,  fa  hia  name, 
pnaent  it  to  tha  ObaanaUtf  («f  Dnmftlea},     Whan 


oT  the  boards  ia  wHtten,  ml  bj  Bnnu,  bat  probably  hy 
Kinty  harad^  ttie  words:  'God  give  ma  graea  OB  it  to 
read,  aad  not  only  for  to  read,  but  trulef  for  to  onder- 
■tand,  and  slwa}^  leara  to  be  at  Clod's  command.'  Tha 
book  is  L8mo  size,  plaiolv  bound  In  sheepskin,  and  beara 
date  Qlaeg^,  1761." 

The  foUowing  letter  of  Bums  is  riven  in  the 
Gia»gov)  Heraidhj  Mt.  Waddell;  ana  as  it  does 
not  appear  to  have  hitherto  been  published,  and 
may  easily  be  tost  sight  of  if  recorded  only  in  a 
daily  paper,  you  may  perhaps  allow  it  to  be  em- 
balmed m  your  pages :  — 

••  Sanqnhar,  !6th  November,  1786. 

"  Sir, — I  write  yon  this  and  the  encloied  literally  at 
paaaot,  fbi  I  am  Jnat  baiting  on  my  way  to  Ayrshire.  I 
have  PhilosQphy  or  Pride  enoogh  to  support  me  with 
onwODnded  iodiffinenee  against  the  nt^leat  of  my  mere 
doll  snpenon,  (he  merely  rank  and  file  of  Noblesse  and 
Gentry,  nay  even  to  keep  my  vanity  qoita  sober  under 
the  lardJDR  of  their  comidliDent);  hut  fnimtJioee  who  are 
eqaally  distiognished  b;  their  Rank  and  Charscler — 
those  who  bear  the  true  elegant  ImpresaianB  of  the  Great 
Creator  on  the  ricbert  materials,  their  little  notices  and 
atlentiona  are  to  me  amongst  the  first  of  earthly  enjoy- 
ments. The  honor  you  did  my  fngiiive  pieces  in  reqaest- 
ing  copies  of  them  is  so  higUy  flattering  te  my  &elings 
and  Poetic  Ambition,  that  1  conld  not  tewit  even  this  b^ 
opportunity  of  scrawling  off  for  yon  the  enclosed  as  a 
amaJl  bat  boneet  testimony  how  tmty  and  gratefully  I 
have  the  honor  to  be,  Sir, 


Mr.  Waddell  telle  us  that— 
"  the  original  of  Sm  document  is  in  tiie  possesion  of  Ur. 
JsmesGraham,  Mount  Temon  Cottage,  Carloke— a  most 
enUinaiastio  antiqoaiy  of  fully  foureoore — who  ha^  very 
obligingly  eommnnicated  a  copy  to  me.  From  subsequent 
inqmries,  I  learn  that  it  came  into  Mi.  Graham's  hands 
ftom  those  of  an  old  acquaintanee  of  his,  now  resident  in 
England,  but  who  had  formerly  been  confidential  servant 
t«  Norman  Lockbart  of  Lee.  Ur.  Lockhart,  when  on  a 
visit  at  Dumfriee,  received  it  from  his  brother-in-law, 
Mr.  H'Murdo,  the  Duke  of  Queezubeny's  representative 
at  Drumlanrig,  to  whom  it  was  no  doubt  originally 
addressed  ;  snd  by  Mr.  Lockhart  it  was  beqDe:athed  as  a 

^morial  to  bis  faithful  attendant.    The  poet  s'    '   - 


have  been  written   on   the  occasion   of  his  journey  to 
Mauchline,  when  he  went  to  bring  home  his  bride.    It 

S'vee  additional  interest  to  that  journey,  so  important  ia 
s  life,  and  shows  him  exactly  as  he  was  upon  the  road. 
It  seenis,  in  fact,  to  be  the  only  letter  ever  written  by  bin 
from  Sanqnhar,  alUiongh  ha  was  oftan  enough  tlieie  both 
profeaaianally  and  otkeiwia^  and.  ones  In  a  vmy  bad 
Wnotur,  aa  we  know,  only  two  montha  later.  But  ita 
chief  literary  Inlaieat  ia  in  the  proof  it  affords  so  dis- 
tinctly, that  hia  [rienddiip  with  H'Mnido  and  others 
of  that  class  was  oonrted  by  such  persona  themaelvea,  and 
■  ■    ^     ■  ■  intmaion  0*  the 


TXx.  John  MVordo,  who  ia  here  menticHied, 
was  Chsmberlun  to  Duke  William  of  Queena- 
beny  (old  Q.)  from  1780  to  1797,  occupying 
during  that  period  a  pn»iineiit  podtion  in  tlie 


as  oonrted  by  such  parsoni 
y  bron^t  about  by  any 


450 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES 


,[*"8.VII.  M4r27,'rL 


countr  of  Dumiiiea.  Hia  grandson,  Major-Oenerel 
W.  M'Murdo,  C.B.,  ia  known  as  a  distinguished 
officer  of  the  British  armf,  having'  attracted  the 
•ttantion  of  the  Iftte  Sir  Charles  Napier  by  his 
personal  intrepiditf  and  great  zeal  in  the  Scinda 
war,  more  particululj  at  the  battle  of  Meeanee. 

To  this  I  mav  add  another  letter  of  Buraa,  a 
portion  of  nhidi  is  found  in  Chambers's  Life 
(vol  IT.  «.  266),  but  it  had  never  sppeued  in  its 
cntiietr  till  it  was  read  by  Mr.  M'Diarmid,  eecre- 
tarj,  at  the  anniveisai;  dinner  at  Dumfiies  in 
honour  of  the  poet,  on  January  26, 1870.  It  is  as 
ftjlows; — 


.    .    u  1  stated  it 
absence  might  aa  w«U  blve  beea 
nevBrfoandsnvl 

trenofken,&t. 

time*  It  would  have  rejoiced  all  Hell 


"  Dear  Sir,— I  un  both  much  sorpilMd  ud  TSzed  at  that 
acddeataTLoriiner'B  slock.  The  lait  anrvey  I  mide  prior 
to  Hr.  Loiimer'a  going  to  Edinr.  I  woa  veiy  particular 
is  my  Infection,  and  the  quantity  woa  cenoiuly  in  bla 

. 1  ....,1 ;.     tL ,„,  I  mj^  daring  ilia 

.rk«d'keya6ni>t,'asl 

-/body  but  the  lady,  who  I  know  ia  not  mia- 

of  ken,  &C.,  to  knoir  gnytbiDg  of  it,  and  one  of  the 

■      " "  Utohaveseenhtrao 

^hiaretam.  I  know 

le  grace  of  G ,  past 

BU  compretietiaioD  ;  bat  i  loau  give  the  hooae  a  severe 
Scrntisy  ti>-mom>w  moroing,  and  send  jou  in  the  nakad 
facia.  I  know,  3ir,  and  regret  deeply,  that  this  bualDeaa 
elonces  wlUi  a  malign  aspect  on  my  character  aa  an 
Officer ;  but  aa  I  am  really  ianocent  in  the  affair,  and  aa 
the  gentleman  Is  knovD  to  be  an  illicit  Dealer,  and  pur- 
tieubrhr  aa  Ihla  ia  the  ttuk  initanea  or  the  laaat  ahadow 
ot  eardesaosas  or  imprapnety  in  my  condnctoa  an  Officer, 
I  ttuUl  b«  paculiacly  unfortanate  If  my  character  ihall  fall 
a  aacrlflee  to  the  dark  moncenvres  of  a  smaggier.— I  am. 
Sir,  yoor  obliged  and  obedient  hnmbla  eervt., 

"  Sonday  even.  "  EtOBT.  BCBNS. 

*'  I  aend  TOO  tome  rhymea  I  have  jnat  flniahed,  which 
tickle  my  fuiey  a  little.^ 

There  is  no  date  to  this  letter,  and  we  cannot, 
therefore,  Bay  at  what  period  he  first  attracted  the 
attention  of  his  superiore  by  looseness  in  the  per- 
fonnance  of  hia  duties,  but  we  can  easUv  imagine 
that  (he  duty  was  irksome  from  the  beginning,  as 
he  Bun^  on  getting  his  appointment  in  1789  to  the 
following  effect; — 

■  Searching  anld  wivea'  banreli^ 
Och,  boa  I  the  day^I 
Tbat  daity  barm  ^uld  stain  my  laarela." 
In  this  letter  he  "regrets  deeply  that  this 
buaineea  glances  with  a  maliKn  aspect  on  my  cha- 
racter aa  an  officer,"  and  thia  confirms  what  Mr. 
ilndlater  in  his  testimony  in  favour  of  the  official 
character  of  Buns  states,  as  given  by  Chambers 
(iv.  289),  that  "  he  was  jealous  of  the  leaat  im- 
putation on  his  vigilance."  There  are  anecdotes, 
nowever,  which  snow  that  his  good  nature  in- 
duced him  at  times  to  wink  at  the  peccadUloes  of 
"  anld  wivea"  when  they  attempted  to  cheat  the 
reTenos.  The  Lorimer  here  spoken  of  was  the 
father  of  (he  voung  lady  whom  the  poet  c^ls 
Cfalori^  and  whose  beautT  and  charms  he  cele- 
brates in  no  fewer  than  eleTen  of  his  most  suc- 
cessful lyrics. 


In  addition  to  these  reminiacances  of  Bums,  I 
may  state  that  there  are  some  traditionary  ac- 
counts in  Cloeebum  of  the  fate  of  the  bed  an 
which  the  poet  was  bom.  When]  Gilbert,  the 
brother  of  the  poet,  took  the  farm  of  Binning  in 
Cloaebum  pariah,  it  was  brought  among  his  effects 
from  Ayrshire  to  that  place,  where  it  remained  till 
his  death.  Hia  goods  were  then  sold  by  public 
roup,  and  as  Bacon  the  landlord  of  BrownbiU 
Inn  had  become  known  from  his  oonnection  with 
Bums  about  1790,  it  was  bought  by  him,  and 
occnpied  by  an  old  groom,  Joe  Langhoroe,  well 
known  in  the  early  part  of  this  century  to  all  who 
were  travelling  along  the  Carliala  and  Glasgow 
road.  On  the  death  of  Bacon  (hia  wife  bad  pre- 
deceased him)  in  1824  his  poods  were  sold,  and 
Joe,  who  waa  a  great  &vourite  in  the  parish,  let 
it  be  known  tbat  he  wished  to  purchaae  the  bed 
with  which  he  had  been  so  long  aasociated. 
When  it  was  [lut  up  no  one  offered  for  it,  and 
Joe  got  it  at  his  own  price.  Joe  epent  the  lait 
years  of  hia  life  in  Dumfries,  and  on  his  death  the 
bed  came  into  the  poasesaon  of  one  of  hia  daagh- 
ters,  who  was  married  to  a  shoemaker.  Jlie 
bedstead  is  sud  to  have  been  cut  up  and  formed 
into  anuff-boxee. 

The  fallowing  account  of  another  relic  of  Buraa 
appears  in  the  Qhagmo  Heraid,  and  is  particuttriy 
interesting: — 

"A  coneepondent  at  Leamahogow  writea;— In  tie 
very  valuable  and  extensive  cotlecaon  of  ontiqailiea  in 
the  poeseaaion  of  Hr.  J.  B.  GreenaluBlda  of  Eers^  Lwau- 
haKDw,  tbere  la  a  remarkably  lateteMing  and  curiou, 
perhapa  uaiqae,  retic  of  onr  national  poet — or  at  laaat  rf 
the  firat  edition  of  bla  worka,  pobliahed  at  Eilmanodi 
by  John  Wilson  in  1786.  It  la  well  known  to  'book 
hnnten '  that  thia  edition  oondat«d  of  600  coplas,  of  which 
■bout  350  were  aabectibed  fta.  The  relic  alluded  to  \i 
the  '  proepectas '  of  thia  worl^  with  the  aatagnphi  of 


bv  some  to  be  ia  the  handwriting  of  the  poet— 'Tb> 
tdookliead  leftased  it.'  The  foUowtog  ia  an  accnnte  n- 
script  of  this  preciooi  document; — 'Aprit  11,  I't*^' 
PnOFOBALB  for  publioliiDKi  by  subscription,  ScomlK 
PoEKs,  By  Robert  Burns.  The  work  to  be  clegonUy 
printed  in  one  volnme  octavo.  Price,  stitched,  tbrte 
shillings.  Aa  the  author  baa  not  tha  moat  distant  mer- 
cansiy  view  in  publishing,  aa  soon  aa  ao  msny  sab- 
acribers  appear  as  will  defray  tbe  necasaarj  aipeaae,  the 
work  will  ba  lent  to  the  press. 

'  Set  ant  the  bnmt  side  of  yonr  aUn, 

For  pride  in  pacta  la  nae  aln ; 

Qlory'a  the  priie  for  wUeb  tb»  rio. 
And  Famm't  their  Ja«. 

And  whaltlawa  beat  the  bom  aboil  win, 
And  wharcAire  no  7 ' 


e  "Pf : 


*»S.T1I.MatS7,TI,] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


BowiUan,  one  copy;  Colin  M'DoDgall,  oae  coppy  ; 
Cliariw  HoviUon,  anB  copy  ;  WiUm.  NKJall,  one  coppj, 
sent  per  Mr.  Dun  i  WiDuiin  Templeton,  one  coppy ; 
William  Sommer,  copy  sent  per  CharUa  Crichton— Tbe 
blockbead  tefiued  it ;  Jobn  Mury,  two  coppies." 

The  following  unpublished  scrap  may  scarcely 
be  worth  reconhn^  except  as  a  proof  of  his  power 
of  impron^u  satire  when  proToked  hj  an; thin^ 
which  he  considered  mean.  Burns  aod  a  reverend 
clei^jman  happened  to  call  for  their  horses  at 
the  same  time  at  Brownhill  Im».  When  the 
ostler  brouf^ht  them  the  minister  b^vs  him  two- 
pence, and  Bums,  banding  hi  in  a  BixpeDce,  tuned 
round  to  his  companion  and  called  out^ 

"Btick'iyour  coat. 
Black's  your  hair, 
Black's  yoar  oonacieDce, 
And  Docbt  lo  spair." 

C.  T.  Eamaob. 


LINES  BT  StB  JOHN  BUBGOTNE, 

I  send  jou  the  "  Lines  addressed  bj  Oenera^ 

Burgoyne  to  his  Wife,  Lwly  Charlotte,"  on  her 

endeavouring  to  dissuade  him  from  going  --  - 


«loped  with  her :  lie  married  her  with  her  eldest 
brother's  full  approbation,  and  from  his  house  in 
Ixindoo.  The  lather  obiected,  but  was  afterwaida 
reconciled  to  her.  She  died  at  Keomngton  Palace 
in  1776;  happily  for  her,  before  his  iU-success  ~ 
America.  I  see  a  new  edition  of  The  HoXad  is 
projected — Oeneral  Burgojne  was  a  firequent  con- 
tributor to  it:  — 

"  Still  does  my  oballoits  repine, 
Andreaaoa's  voice  diapiove? 
Smi  tbiuli  him  cnld  who  would  combine 
Philoaophy  and  love  ? 
"  Then  try,  from  yet  a  nobler  •onrce, 
To  gain  the  wish'd  relief —  , 

Fnlth  gives  to  reason  donhle  force. 
And  mocks  the  asMitlla  oT  grief. 
"  By  ber,  bright  Hope's  enlivening  ray, 
Patience,  and  peace  are  given ; 
Attend  itr  call,  resign,  ob^, 
And  leave  the  rest  to  Heaven. 
"  That  power  which  framed  my  Charlotte's  heart 
Tbiu  tender,  thus  sincere, 
Shall  bless  each  wish  that  love  can  start, 
Or  absence  foBter  then. 
*  Stit  in  the  shadow  of  that  power, 
111  tread  the  hostile  ground ; 
TboDgfa  fiery  deaths  In  tempests  shower. 
And  tbonsaads  bit  arooad. 


"Andw 


le  happy  boar  shall  cc 


That  biingi  thy  fsithfiil  soldier  back 

To  lore,  coalott,  and  thae^ 
"  Pare  shall  onr  gratitnde  ascend 

To  Him  who  guides  oar  daysi 
Who,  vrbila  He  give*  with  bonnteoos  bi 


MARY  QUEEN  OP  SCOTS: 

A  snmiABT  OF  IHS  PU.CB8  AND  PBBIODa  OF  HBB 

CAPnTIIT  IN  BNOLAHO. 

1508. — Landed  at  Workington  in  Cumberland, 
OD  Mar  17,  after  the  battle  of  Langside,  and  re- 
mained in  Carlisls  Caatle  until  July  15,  and  then 
conducted  to  Bolton  Castle,  in  Wenslej  Dale, 
where  she  remained  until  Jannair, 

1669, — when  she  was  removed,  and  arrived  at 
Tutbur^  in  Staffordshire,  on  February  2.  She 
was  at  Winfield  Manour,  near  I^rW,  from  June 
to  September,  but  returned  to  Tuthury,  and 
towards  the  end  of  the  year  was  taken  to  Coventry. 
1670. — In  January  was  again  at  Tutbui^,  but 
in  the  early  summer  was  at  Chatswortb  and  per- 
haps Winfield,  and  about  Christmas  was  sent  to 
Sheffield  Castle. 

1571.— Waa  for  a  few  days  sent  from  Sheffield 
Castle  to  Sheffield  Manour,  about  three  miles  off, 
that  her  apartments  might  bo  cleaned.    This  wss 
at  midsummer  of  this  year. 
1572.— In  Sheffield  CasUe. 
1673. — In  the  autumn  visited  both  Ohatsworth 
and  Buxton  imder  guard,  but  returned  in  No* 
vember  to  Sheffield  Castle. 
1674, 1575.— In  Sheffield  Castle. 
1676. — In  the  spring  a  short  visit  to  Buxton. 
1677, 1578, 157a-In  Sheffield  Castle. 
1580. — At  Buxton  for  a  week. 
1681. — In  the  summer  a  short  visit  to  Buxton, 
and  perhaps  to  Chstsworth. 

l&S2.^In  June  and  part  of  July  at  Buxton,  for 
the  last  time. 
1583.— A  short  visit  to  WoAsop. 
1684.~~On  September  3,  finally  left  Sheffield 
Castle  for  Winfield  Manour. 

1585. — On  January  13  removed  to  Tutbuiy. 
1583. — Early  in  this  year  taken  to  Chartlej, 
and  in  September  to  Fotberingh^  Castle,  and 
there  beheaded  on  Pebruary  7, 1687. 

Having  written  a  short  paper  for  the  Uay 
number  at  Aunt  Jmfy'»  Magaant  on  the  subject 
of  "  Queen  Msit's  Captivity,"  abstracted  from  the 
late  Joseph  Hunter  s  Ilirioi-y  of  Hallamihire, 
which  I  have  recently  enls^d  and  edited,  I  have 
thought  the  foregoing  dates  and  names  of  places 
might  interest  some  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  How 
many  railwav  travellers  who  pass  by  smoky  Shef- 
field have  the  least  idea  that  Queen  Mary  was 
imprisoned  there  for  more  than  twelve  years  F 
"  '  month,  I  suspect. 

Alfrxs  Gaitt,  D.D. 


HERBDITABT  GENIUS. 

Oeorse  ViUiers,  the  first  Duke  of  Buckingham  ' 

John  Churchill,  the  great  Duke  of  Marlborough 

and  William  I^tt,  Earl  of  Chatham,  three  men  of 

pre-eminent  distinction  in  Engliali  hiatoij,  have 


452 


NOTES  AND  QTTERIES. 


[*»8.TI1.  Mir  JT.TL 


ooe  strikiDg  point  of  Teaemblutoe.  Their  talents 
wen  gnat,  but  their  brilliaiit  anccew  in  life  naa 
mainlT  owing  to  ^e  odTtrntages  of  a  fine  person, 
a  noble  preeence,  and  a  manoer  which  altematelT 
fuciiwted  Bud  awed  all  who  came  in  contact  witn 
them.  It  hu  not  been  hitherto  remarked  bj  the 
advocates  of  "  hereditarj  genius,"  that  these  three 
great  men  were  all  of  tiie  same  blood ;  for  Marl- 


boTongh  and  I^tt  were  lineally  daaeended  from 
the  honae  of  ViUieis,  as  will  be  seen  in  the  pe£- 
^ree  below.  In  farther  illustration  of  the  beit- 
ditaij  ohftnns  of  this  feroilj,  the  pedigree  hu 
been  extended  to  three  famous  Isdies  of  the  mob 
race,  who  hj  their  beantj'  and  wit  saslaved  n- 
spectivelj  the  inconstaat  Charles  II.,  the  raligiaM 
Jamee  II.,  and  the  BatDmiDe  William  TIT, 


George  TlllJen,  Duke  of  Bneki^       Bii  Ed*.  TUIien,  Pruldcat  of  Maiuter.       -Eli*.  rilU«re  -  John  Lord  Botdw. 


irEd*. 


Wm.  VUUera,  Lord       Sir  Edw.  Villien. 


Andrew  Bolder,         B«len  Bolder  -  Sir  John  Dnke,  Kt 
*r.  Fruii^  Leigh,  EiA  I 

or  Cbichcater. 


Barbin  VUHen,  EHi.  TUlien,  Gtotge  Tilllen  -  Utry  Lei«b. 

DDcbdO  of  Cleve-  Cooatva  of  Lord  GrindiBOii.  [ 

lend,  miitnoa  or  Orkuev,  miitieu                                I 

Cbutea  11.  of  Willi&m  lU. 


Edw.  'TOlian,  Brigr.-Oenertl. 


AnbaUa  CborcbiU, 


Sobl.  Pitt,  Esq..  H J>.  -  Bwriet  Tillien. 


Juna  FltcJamw,  Dnke  of  Berwiek,  K.G. 


WillUm  TiVt,  Eul  of  Chathm. 


"The  Oatbs  Ajar."— A  practice  bas  lately 
come  into  vogue  of  naming  novels  by  some  quaint 


Or,  BgEun,  Red  at  a  Bote  u  She,  which  is  obvi- 
ously taken  from  the  well-known  verse  in  the 
Ancietd  Manner.  The  singular  title  of  the  re- 
markable little  volume  The  Qatti  Ajar,  by  Hiss 
E.  S.  Phelps  of  Andover,  U.  S.,  may  probably 
have  been  snggested  by  the  thought  of^snother 
American  writer — namely,  Longfellow;  for  in  Us 
QtMen  Ligend,  part  n.,  one  of  the  characters 
(EUie)  says  :— 

'■  When  Christ  ascended 
TriDnphantly  from  star  to  Mar, 
He  left  Uie  gala  of  heaven  ajar^ 

Err. 
A  Ttfoghaphicil  Odditt.— In  a  poem  on 
"The  Milton  Gallerp"  by  Amos  Cottle  (1802), 
the  brother  of  the  Bristol  publisher,  the  friend  of 
Coleridge  and  Soutbey,  toe  poet,  describing  the 
pictures  of  Puseli  says — 

"Tlislabbar  flend  outatretdi'd  (be  chimnej  near, 
"-  "A  Cljmsa  on  the  laiboerd  Stoer." 


lysses  steeled  to  the  larboard  to  shun  Charyh- 
but  the  eompositcv  makes  him  get  upon  the 


TswiVi 

back  of  ft  young  bullock,  the  left  one  in  Uie  drove' 
After  all,  however,  he  only  interprets  the  text 
literally,  "  Steer,"  as  a  substantive,  has  no  other 
meaning  than  bullock.  The  substantivs  of  the 
verb  "  to  stAr"  is  steerage.  "  He  that  hath  tho 
sleersge  of  my  course"  (Shakespeare.)  Ttecom- 
positor  evidentlT  understood  that  Ulvsses  rods  m 
ox;  he  would  hardly  eUe  have  spelt  Steer  w"" 
a  capital  S.  G.  J.  Di  Wilpi- 

Sassab. — The  potter's  art  is  probably  one  of 
the  oldest  in  the  worid,  and  it  would  be  no  gf*' 
wonder  to  find  an  old  world  name  connected  with 
it.  Many  of  the  readers  of  "N.  &  Q."  sie  M 
doubt  Bware  that  the  coarse  earthenware  veew 
in  which  the  pottery  ia  carefully  "  placed  "  befo» 
it  is  baked  in  the  oven  is  called  a  taogar.  \^*^. 
always  considered  this  irari  as  an  abbreviaboa  °' 
tafeguard.  Butlbavelatel^changedmymind,*'"' 
incline  to  the  opinion  that  it  may  be  daived  ftom 
the  Hebrew  sagar,  to  Bhut  up ;  for  the  ovenniM, 
in  setting  one  BB^ar  on  top  of  another,  is  '»'*' 
careful  to  lute  the  two  togethw  so  that  &«  M^ 
gara  may  be  perfectly  airtight.  A  wold  in  '^'!t> 
common  use,  laek  for  gruo,  is  pure  Hebrsv-  \ 

Bnnlam,  Staflbidihlte. 


4*fl,Tn.  Mat  27, 71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


453 


A  Qhosi  Stobt. — The  following  is  an  extract 
from  ft  priTBte  lettet  written  bj  «  lady  of  rank, 
JuiD&Ty  10,  1827:— 

'"  Have  ^n  heard  ■  ghmt  tory  about  Lord  Hastiogs  ? 
Some  yean  ago  Lady  Wiltlam  Raraell,  in  a  merry  mood, 
made  an  agreement  with  her  nnde,  that  which  of  than 
died  drat  ibonld  call  on  the  aatrivor  to  give  ddingi  of 
what  had  paseed.  Thres  nif[bta  before  ebe  beard  of  Lord 
Haatjngi'  deatb,  abe  wu  vuiced  by  bU  apparitioa  and 
iD&miM  that  he  had  ehaken  off  hii  mortal  coil  more 
cafdlj' than  he  conld  haTe  expected.  Formcfa  faitclligenee 
it  waa  icareely  worth  while  to  return  1 " 

c. 

JuTQua.  —  There  is  a  letter  in  the  Middle  Hill 
libnuy  which  is  raid  to  be  by  JusiDs,  which  once 
belonged  to  Sa  Qeorge  Jackson  of  the  Admiralty. 
It  is  ft  Tiolent  tirade  a^nst  an  admiral  oi  generftl 
during  the  American  War  of  Independence,  and 
has  never  been  printed.  P. 


FRANCIS  AND  JUNIUS. 

As  the  interest  taken  in  this  long  Texed  qnes- 
tjOQ  baa  now  revived  by  the  publication  of  profes- 
rional  evidence  derived  from  htmdwritimf,  peifcapa 
the  following  suf^eetion  may  be  acceptable  in 
reference  to  the  o^cial  teal  used  by  Sir  Philip 
Francis.  Intheii/e  o/JVonciiby  tiie  IftteJoeeph 
Fftrket,  continned  by  H.  Meiivale,  8vo,  1867, 
vol.  L  p.  168,  we  are  told ; — 

"At  thia  time  (1767)  tbcoffld*]  Mali  w«r«  tbe  arm* 
of  the  individual  heads  of  tbe  ;affloes,  and  mek  cbjef,  on 
Ilia  Gnt  taking  office,  bad  tbe  privilege  of  a  grstoitona 
aopply  to  him  of  dapticate  enffnnted  joiU,  for  Ibe  iieparate 
DM  of  tbe  prindpal  clerka.  lima  D'Oyly  [Etepaty 
Seeretarv  of  War]  and  Frendi  [Chief  Clerk]  each  had 
a  seal  of  Lord  BarriDgton'i  [Seorataiy  at  War]  eoat  of 


If  true,  thia  fact  is  Teiy  important  in 
~.  sealed  by  Frauus. 


n  lefetence 
to  letters  written  and  set 

At  p.  266  we  find  that  two  private  letters 
his  wife,  written  from  Manchester  and  Oxford  in 
AugOEt  1771,  were  sealed  with  a  Itirge  War  Offic* 
ttal.  This  seal  unfortunately  is  not  described  bv 
Mr.  Merivale,  whetber  it  bore  lord  Barriagton  e 
arms  or  not;  but  it  is  hence  evident  that  f^nds 
was  in  the  habit  of  carryaig  an  official  ttal  about 
mth  him,  and  did  not  soiuple  to  use  it  on  his  pri- 
vate letters.  Now  in  the  list  of  letters  addressed 
by  Jnniaa  to  Woodfall  (Appendix,  No.  1),  we 
find:— 

"  No.  7.  Written  on  Vfu  OSee  paper.  Obliterated 
ornHMfwax  seal  (Sarrwptaa'i)  ttanqled  over  vM  a  ttalth 
itg. 

"No.  IE.  Written  on  War  Office  gilt-edged  paper. 
Large  and  donUe  impresged  dUgnUed  imprtnnm  $tal 
(probaify  I  Hwiiu  tj  Lard  Jarriiytoii'j  btm*),  eorentt 

It  would  be  Tery  deaimble  to  know  more  about 
these  seals,  and  to  have  them  compared  with  oUier 
perfect  imprenions  of  Lord  Bturington's  office 


seal.  Many  letters  must  exist  signed  by  Lord 
Barrington,  to  which  the  official  seal  was  af- 
fixed, and  it  might  thus  be  invved  whether  a 
duplicate  of  this  seal  was  nsea  by  the  writer  of 
the  letters  to  Woodfall.  If  this  should  prove  to 
be  tbe  case,  it  would  add  one  link  more  to.  tiie 
strong  chain  of  evidence  which  points  out  Sir 
Philip  Francis  as  the  writer  of  the  Junius  letters. 
It  certainly  seems  strange  that  Francis  sboold 
have  risked  discovery  hr  aiaag  such  a  seal  when 
writing  as  Junins,  but  be  probably  thought  that 
by  partly  defacing  the  imftresdon  he  had  ren- 
dered each  discovery  impondble.    Is  it  so  f 

F.M. 


Child  borh  oir  ihx  AwmsBMiur  or  its 
PiBEKTs'  Wbddims-dat.  —  Do  any  of  your  cor- 
respondents who  wrote  about  the  seventh  son  ef 
a  seventh  son  know  of  some  old  saymg  or  legend 
about  a  son  bom  at  the  very  hour  and  day  on  tbe 
anniversary  of  his  parents'  wedding-day  ?         Z. 

DoKB.— King  Edward  IV.  is  B«d  to  have  con- 
ferred the  above  name  upon  the  Worcester^re 
family  of  Mabbe  as  a  "^  mark  of  respect "  for  their 
sufferings  in  liis  cause,  and  on  account  of  their 
relationship  to  the  Mortimers,  through  whom  he 
derived  his  claim  to  tbe  crown.  Whence  tbe 
name  of  JDoret  H.  S.  G. 

Dsux :  AX  ETKsnia  Pabtt. — What  is  the  de- 
rivation of  the  wMd  drum,  meaning  an  eveiiiDg 
part^f  Hbhkt  F.  FoNBODBT. 

"  E>bbtbodt'9  Bfbiness." — The  origin  or  first 
use  of  common  proverbs  is  rather  a  carious  eub- 

In  the  opening  of  No.  18  of  The  Taller  occurs 
(almost  in  these  words)  the  familiar  saying — 
"  What  is  everybody's  business  is  nobody's  buN- 
nese."     Query  if  this  is  the  fint  time  this  wni 


eaidP 


Ltttoltoh. 


"  Thb  pbktful  PoBcnwHB." — I  dare  say  hun- 
dreds of  resders  of  Shakspere,  when  they  have 
met  with  the  passage  in  HanUet,  "  like  quilh 
upon  the  fretful  porcupine,"  have  imagined  that 
the  "  immortal  William  "  intended  to  convey  the 
impresuon  that  tbe  porcupine  was  by  nature  of  a 
peevish  or  fretful  aisposition,  but  I  have  some 
doubts  whether  the  word  "fretTul"  waa  used  by 
him  in  such  a  sense.  I  find  in  an  old  dictionarv 
(published  in  1696)  the  folloning  :_"i^ri,  f.,  s 
round  verril  or  ferril."  Was  not  the  word  "  fret- 
ful "  intended  to  describe  the  round  qnills  on  tbe 
bock  of  the  animal — "  the  ^^^full  porcupine  "  f 

iStMveo*  ihows  this  by  qnoUag  tma  SUliMtia,  a 
eetion  of  ([dgrami,  Ae.,  ISsBi —  i 


464 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[l*8.Tir.  MatK.TL 


Uhdb  DiKirATiTB  "  Qladh"  P— ^The  Celtic  word 
fladh  a  sud  to  bear  the  meaoiDg:  of  aword  as 
wdl  as  river,  Tneaniiigaat  first  eight  Teij  oppoute, 
kat  which  I  think  may  be  brought  into  h&nuoni- 
Mia  lelation.  The  radical  ide&  Beema  to  be  the 
wtflexion  ofUght^ia  glitter,  to  glisten,  &c.  Thus 
««  often  near  of  gUtUring  biadei  m  well  as  thm- 
mff  rinart :  gladiiu,  glow,  a  connste  word  i  gladt, 
a  dear  space  where  the  BUttbeams  pla;  ;  glad 
(Sax.  gtad) ;  gladnea^the  light  of  the  soul  n- 
Jbcted  in  tne  cotmtemuice ;  all  these  words  seem 
to  ^ring  from  a.  common  radicle,  the  primary  idea 
kdng,  as  I  have  said,  the  refleiion  of  light. 

I  noticed,  in  a  recent  communicatioD  iu  these 
■ages  (p.  285)  of  the  word  giaOen,  that  glaU 
|Sw*d.),  pltd  (litn.),  glatt  (Ger.)  means  smooth, 
Jtc.,  and  IS  applied  to  ice.  Here  seema  to  be  the 
aameidea.  I  oeg  leave  to  ask  aome  one  better 
Tsraed  in  philology  than  myself,  whether  Sanscrit 
affordi  any  root  that  bears  out  this  conjectural 
ttjmology  t  W.  a 

HoBAN Anita. — Thearms,  "Ouleaachief  bendy 
•f  eight  az.  and  ar.,"  are  ascribed  to  Koran  (Ire- 
land).  Information  as  to  who  they  were  granted 
to,  and  when,  would  oblige  S.  B.  F. 

Sib  William  Joiras'a  Alcaic  Odb. — Every 
•choolboy  knows  this  patriotic  poem.  In  one  line 
of  it  the  author  denounces  "the  fiend  Discre- 
tion,"  by  which  piunse  he  obrioualy  means  i 
trmry  rule,  or  what  in  these  days  is  called  personal 
goremneaL  I  notice  that  iu  recent  manuals  of 
elocution  the  word  "  discretion  "  is  being  dropped 
•at,  and  another  of  the  same  length  substituted 
for  it — e.  g.  "  diMendon."  My  question  is,  wbe- 
tb«r  the  old  reading  be  not  the  correct  one  ?  and 
whether  the  new  emendators  are  not  taking  too 
gmat  a  til>erty  with  a  standard  EInglish  classic 
yoem,bendes  exhilntingatrifleof  real  ignorance? 
D.  Blaix. 


&B   EOB.    KiLLIOBBWr    BtTBLAVACHI. — PTof' 

Joriaaen  of  Amsterdam,  who  ia  enmged  on  the 
Life  of  Holland'a  poet,  Constaotin  Huygens,  asks 
»«  infortnation  about  a  Robert  Killigrew,  KniKht, 
wbcHD  Huygens  often  visited  in  London  in  1623. 
He  says  he  knows  that  he  had  twelve  cbildrau, 
and  that  the  mother  was  drowned  in  1041  or 
1M3  under  a  bridge.  He  Kueases  that  this  Rob. 
Killigrew  ia  a  son  of  Barleigh'a  brother-in-law. 

Sir  Rob,  Killigrew  appears  in  the  Caiendar  of 
SUa  Paper*  for  the  first  time,  May  13, 1613  ;  he 
■a  then  released  from  the  Fleet.  Ma^  19  of  the 
SMDC  year  he  is  committed  for  holdin;;  intercourse 
wtUi  Overburv  in  priaoo  ;  Sept  8,  1626,  he  is  to 
■weMd  Bir  Dudley  (as  ambassador  to  the  United 
nOTiDCea) }  and  Jan.  31  and  Feb.  7,  1626,  he 
■Bpean  as  appointed  ambassador  io  the  States. 
Wa  find  him  fiuther  in  1628-29,  but  no  longer 


■•  anbaasador :  Jan.  2, 1 


8  Tic»-cliamberUin 


to  the  queen;  Jane  II,  1632,  as  capt^n  of  the 
fort  of  PeDdennia ;  and  Nov.  26,  1633,  as  d»- 
ceaaed.  Chalmers'  Biog.  Du±.  mentions  three  sf 
biesona — William  (afterwards  Sir  William  Killi- 
grew), Thomaa,  and  Henry;  and  I  find  one  oC  hi> 
daughters,  Eliialjetb,  married  Viscount  Slianoaa.* 
As  to  the  father  of  Sir  Rob.  Killigrew,  I  find 
in  the  Archeeologia,  xviii.  99,  a  pedigree  of  ttis 
Killigrews,  in  which  a  Robertua  appears  as  "fiL 
&  haer.  superates  1620  of  Will.  Killigrew,  who 
obiit  Nov.  23,  1622,"  and  whose  wife  had  been 
"  Maig.  fil.  Tho.  Saunders." 

Prof.  Joriasen  would  alao  like  to  know  who 
the  Burlamachis  were.  The  Ctdendar  of  SaU 
Papers  of  Jamei  I.  and  Charles  II,  (IGW-IS38) 
frequently  mention  a  Philip  Burlamschi,  who 
aeems  to  have  been  a  distinguished  merchsnt  it 
that  time  A  document  of  June  12,  1619.  mh- 
taina  details  of  the  proceedings  in  the  Star  CIisid- 
ber  against  160  strangers  accused  of  tnnaportiiij 
seven  milliona  of  money,  among  them  Burii- 
macbi; — 
"  30  Jan.  1630.  Tbe  merchant-strangers  sra  atiU  In  lb 

Fleet BnrUmscbi  has  msde  his  peace  for  10,00(11. 

reidj  money.— 1636.  Cerliflcite  for  Mr.  PhiL  B_  of- 
chuit,  nitunllied.  He  wss  bom  in  Sedan  in  trtaet, 
and  hu  been  In  Engluid  thii  ihiHy  yesis  and  mere.  H( 
baa  certain  rooma  at  Mr.  Goold'a  hoiue  in  Feacbiutli 
Stteet  for  bia  neceaurv  occaalDDa  of  writing  tbeit  imk 
two  or  three  davs  in  'the  weak,  but  bis  dwe9Ung.JHnia, 
with  bii  wife  and  children  and  ftmlly,  ia  at  PntncT-* 

I  have  found  alao  a  Lawrence  Bni^amt^ 
April  20,  1603,  and  a  Jas.  Burlamachi,  Au;.  6, 
1623.    Bat  I  can  find  no  traces  of  them  else- 
Can  any^  of  your  readers  oblige  me  by  sooe 
more  definite  information  aa  to  Sir  Rob.  Killi- 
grew and  his  parentage,  and  the  Burlamscbia  i* 
J.H.HfflMi* 
LiiioOLKBHiBB ;  Drikeiks  Sovq. — About  tbe 
beginning  of  this  century  a  drinking  song  "* 
popular  m  Lincolnshire,  of  which  I  can  only  i^ 
cover  what  folio wa — 

"  Bring  aa  good  ale  in  Bton^ 
And  wben  thit's  done  send  na  more, 
Aod  the  key  of  the  cellar  door." 

I  ahall  be  much  obliged  if  any  cme  can  n(a^ 
to  a  perfect  copy.  K.  P-  D-  »■ 

Rbv.  C.  R.  Matheik.— 7a<  Atr^auf^,.^ 
enumerating  a  liat  of  William  Bewick's  portrtici, 
adds  to  the  name  of  this  genttemao— autborw 
Serlram,  a  once  popular  tragedy,  and  some  strii- 
ing  romances — the  words  "  of  barrel-orffsn  fam* 
What  does  this  mean  ?  D.  Btua- 


MmiATirBS  Paibtib,  Un^  CHABLKt-r^ 
any  one  suggest  the  name  of  a  miniatue  P**^' 
t»mp.  Charlea  L.witb  tbe  iutials  D.  JX  Q- vJ3  ^ 


[■  S««N.  iQ."*»S.viL3S».i 


4*S.  VII.  M*t27,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


miDidture  TepraMDts  a  man  in  n  black  dreu  with 
a  Itige  white  falling  collar,  and  with  Ion;;  hair 
fallins  over  the  shouldera.  It  is  punted  on  card- 
board. 0.  C. 

Thk  Fibst  Book  of  Napolsok. — ^Who  is  ttie 
author  of— 

"Th«  firat  book  of  Napoleon,  tha  tjTant  of  the  earth  ; 
irritten  in  the  fiSlSth  yesr  of  the  woild,  and  I809lta-Tear 
nf  the  Christian  en,  by  Kllakim  the  Scribe,  > 
of  tbe  modem  branch  of  the  tribe  of  Levi,  8ie. 
Harat,  &  Co.  in  1609." 

Is  this  a  rare  work,  and  was  it 


suppresa^  ? 


Ovm,  "Metam."  xni.  254:  "Bebioniok." — 
Perhaps  it  is  somewhat  late,  when  one  has  written 
aud  pahlished  a  translation  of  a  book,  to  set  about 
findirig  oat  the  real  meaning  of  certain  of  its 
passages.  But  having  thus  more  or  less  dis- 
counted that  objection,  I  proceed,  if  the  colnmns 
of  "N.  &  Q."  will  afibrd  me  the  space,  to  make 
the  inquiry : — 

"  Cujui  eqaoa  preliadi  pro  noete  popoeeemt  boilb. 
Arms  negate  mihi,  fuerilque  btiiigmor  Ajax." 

JUtUm.  ziil  £51. 

What  is  the  proper  meaning  of  the  hut  three 
words  P  The  Delphm  Interpretalio  giTea  it  thus — 
"  eitque  melius  de  vobis  meritus  Ajax  quam  ego." 

Uryden'a  rendering  of  the  lines  is — 

■  Befuao  me  now  hii  arms,  whoae  flery  tieedi 
Were  promised  to  the  >pr  for  his  noctamal  deeds) 
And  let  dull  Ajax  Iwer  away  mj  right. 
When  all  his  dijs  oulbalancs  this  one  night " — 

a  version  which  in  do  waj  helps  to  answer  mv 

Suestion.  OnconsuItingBunnano's  edition,IfiDd 
1st  Heinsius  saya : — 

"Sad  nil  fortaue  mntiDilum,  nt  baapaor  putivt 
■nniatar,  pro  eo  qui  beoignii  hibetur.  CojDi  t«men 
■IgniScationii  aUnd  exCmplum  qumro.  Ita  ut  brmgKior 
gnttiodor." 

And  Bormann  closes  his  note  with  his  own  view — 
*■  Immo  bengniar  est  magia  popuUiis,  bUadns,  nt  ideo 
oblineat  qnn  velit." 

I  had  not  seen  Burmann's  note  when  I  ventured 
to  translate — 

**  Let  AJix  have  them  t    Te  may  make  at  least 

Bis  lemper  nmething  awMterwiCh  Ibeglfl"  ! 

And  I  founded  my  interpretation  on  Horace's  use 

of  the  word  heaignua  in  the  second  satire  of  the 

first  book— 

"  Ambabaiaram  eollrgla,  pbirmacopols, 
Hendid,  mlDiie,  balalrooea,  boo  mail*  omne 
Maatnm  ac  ■ollicitnm  eat  caatoris  morte  Tigelll ; 
Qnippe  benign  us  erat." 

I  aoree  with  Heineius  in  doubting  the  passive 
use  athtnigniar,  and  seem  to  differ  from  Burmaun 
only  in  this — that  A«  says  Ajax  will  be  "  benig- 
nioT  "  to  gtl  (ut  obtineat)  the  arms ;  J,  that  Ajax 
may  become  so  i/A«^e^  them.  The  Delphin  Jn- 
UrpreMio  appears  to  me  of  the  tamest    There  is, 


)  my 


mind,  a  manifest  si 


iT  in  the  words,    I 


TOUT  pages.  None  of  my  critics  have,  so  iar  m  I 
Icnow,  noticed  the  passage. 

If  this  query  should  succeed  in  attf  acting  atten- 
tion, I  shall  hare  two  or  three  similar  problems 
to  propose.  IIensy  Euia. 

6,  Paper  Buildinga,  Temple. 

StkStbphkn  Pboctob.— Wanted  some  aoooiat 
of  the  above-named  Sir  Stephen,  who  built  Foim- 
tains  Hall — of  where  he  was  bom,  and  whera  he 
diedi  also,  information  respecting  his  parentage 
marriage,  &c.  Eswarv  Mortoh. 


palemenfs,  which      __  ^ 

tains  Ilall.b;^  Sir  Stephen  Proctor,  m  tne  time  01  lune 
James  I.,  this  familv  derived  iu  decent  from  -Sir  Otivir 
Mireirraje  of  Tymhridge,  in  the  connlie  of  Kent';  the 
reaaon  of  s  change  of  lumame  being  perhaps  aaggeiuri 
by  Ibe  forlhcr  staUment  (bat  'Thomas  Mirewiw.  ala. 
Proolor  of  Firehed,  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Thomaa 
Proctor  of  Winterbom.*     Both   thfse  places  are  in  the 

Sarish  ofGargrave,  adjacent  to  that  of  Kirkhy-Malham- 
aie,  and  were  formerly  among  the  possessbns  (^  tbe 
abbey  of  FomMS,  in  Lancashire. —  Val.  EccL  vol.  r. 
p.  270."  For  Sir  Stephen  Pmctor's  Mrvioe*,  petilians. 
revenue  projects,  &c.,  consult  Lsnsdoirne  MSS.,  Nos.  1^ 
167.1 

QvoTATioir  yiuiTsa. — A  US.  copy  of  verses  ha* 
been  put  into  my  bands,  beginning ;  — 
"  Winter's  cold  blasts  have  gone ;  now  spring  sppetn 

To  cheer  the  saddest  heart,  to  dry  our  teara : 

It  seems  to  carry  on  its  silent  breath, 

Tbe  mudc  of  our  Uvea,  no  sound  of  death ; 

Bat  still  I  beard  a  drooping  (lower  say, 

'  Thy  tims's  not  yet,  waleh,  and  abide  thy  day." 

Can  any  of  the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  give  me 
information  whether,  and  if  so,  where  these  linea 
hare  appeared  in  print  P  T.  W.  WuB. 

SooTOSH  GuABD  or  Francs.— In  3"  S.  iv.  8, 1 
find  a  note  which  seems  to  imply  that  the  Beot- 
tish  Guard  of  the  French  kings  existed  id  the 
time  of  Charles  VIL,  but  was  disbanded  in  1 1.%. 
Tbe  Baron  de  Besenval  speaks  of  it  in  Ms  Me- 
moiret  (ii.  84),  in  connection  with  a  curious  privi- 
lege which  ia  worthy  of  a  note.  Ho  is  deecnbiDK 
the  miaermble  death-bed  of  Loius  XV.  in  \17A, 
when  all  but  four  of  the  crowd  of  assembled  cour- 
tiers fled  from  the  palace  the  moment  tiiat  the 
king  expired,  and  says :  — 

"  II  n'y  re«ta  qne^^  le  dnc  d'Ayen,  tnrvivanmer  da  «n 
pire,  cap'ituna  del  Ecussai^  dont  le  droit  eat  de  gariar  la 

PABS&an  IN  Sbsllbt. — In  Bossetti'e  SbeUey, 
"unannotated  edition,  Moxon,"  the  aecoodTCoa 
in  the  "  Question  "  reads  thus : — 

".  .  .  .  and  that  tan  flower  that  wets—  I  ^^^ 

Like  a  child  half  in  tendsnusa  and  miitb,  <, '  ^ 

When  the  low  wind  its  playmata'a  voioa  it  tMM& 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*"8.vn.MiTr,'7i. 


The  line— 

•■  It>  mothar'*  Aks  vith  bMvn-tdleetcd  tears  ' — 
ia  omitted,  but  it  Menu  req^aired  as  well  for  the 
aenae  ns  the  measure.  Ia  the  omiadon  intentional, 
or  is  it  raerelr  a  Blip  of  the  printer'a  t 

In  three  former  editions  of  ShtBty't  Poetieal 
Worki-tbBt  of  1847  (Moxon)  by  Mrs.  Shelley, 
that  publiahSd  by  "  C.  Daly,  Red  Lion  Square, 
1889,''  and  tiut  by  "Milner  and  Sowerbj,  1867," 
the  line — 

"Like  ■  duld  halTln  tenckniVM  and  mirth"— 
is  wanting.    Does  it  appear  in  Rossetti's  edition 
for  the  first  time,  <uid  what  ia  the  authority  for 
its  ioaertjon  P  J.  A.  K. 

Whitubbev,  BalCut. 

SossBT  QnsRiBa 1.    Where  ifit^  Walter 

Savage  Landoi  say  that  Milton  "aoMched  the 
sonnet  from  the  hand  of  Love,  who  cried  to  loae 
it,  and  gave  the  notes  to  Glory,"  or  words  to  that 
effect  P 

2.  Did  Wordsworth  write  hia  sonneta  on  "Na- 
.   tional  liber^  and  Independence "  (amon^t  the 

noblest  in  the  language)  before  or  after  hu  con- 
veraon  to  Toryism  P 

3.  Whom  does  Archbishop  Trench  allude  to  in 
the  last  two  lines  of  his  sonnet  commendng  "  A 
counsellor  well' fitted  to  advise,"  &&  P  I  presume 
Wordsworth. 

4.  Mr.  RoBsetti  aajs,  in  a  note  to  Shelley's  O^ 
mandia»,  that  this  fine  sonnet  was  wntten  in 
friendly  emulation  with  Kents  and  Leigh  Hunt, 
both  of  whom  also  wrote  sonnets  on  E^rptian 
subjects.  I  see  one  bv  Leigh  Hunt,  entitled  A 
TTiought  ON  fAe  NUe,  but  I  cannot  find  one  by 
Keats.  Did  the  latter  ever  write  one,  and  wbere 
can  I  meet  with  it  P 

May  I  venture  to  suggest  to  Mr.  Rossetti  that 
he  iias  (to  my  ear  at  least)  ruined  one  of  the 
most  muucal  lines  Shelley  ever  wrote,  by  the 
omission  of  a  single  letter  ?  I  allude  to  the  line 
in  Adonaia — 
"  And  the  wild  wijids  flew  siound,  aobbiog  la  their  dt»- 

may." 
Mr.  Rossetti's  edition  has  it — 
"  And  the  wild  wind*  flew  nMi>d,  (obbins  in  tb«ii  dia- 

The  substitution  airomitdfot  aroiiiuj  quite  alters 
the  rhythm,  and  causes  the  line  to  halt  lament- 
ably. Ooe  con  only  read  it  by  emphasising  "And," 
which  Shelley  could  hardly  have  iotended.  I 
should  be  glad  to  bear  the  opinions  of  others  on 
this  point  JoNATHAH  BoucHiEE. 

9,  Stanley  TUlu,  Bexky  Heath,  S.E. 

"Thb  Thuddkrer."— When  was  this  sobriquet 
given  to  the  London  Timet  f  I  have  in  my  posses- 
1  some  Dnmbeis  of  a  acboolboya'  newspaper 
■  '■■"'     ""      ■  "    The 


heading  and  motto  were  printed,  Uie  reot  wu 
manuscript,  the  copy  eerring  for  the  whole  school 

USKDA. 

Philsddphis. 

[WbcD  Thonu  Buses  laeceedad  Dr.  Stoddut  U 
editor  of  The  Tima,  <hh  of  his  moM  able  eoa4jaton  wM 
Capt.  Edward  Starting,  whoae  connection  with  tlH  psnr 
comrnaocad  in  1812,  in  a  •eriai  of  leUen  under  tba  K- 
nitore  Vettu,  afUtwirde  pablUbed  aa  a  aeparata  woik  u 
three  puta.  Capt.  Sterling  in  the  lattar  part  oT  hit  Hh 
became  well  known  in  London  political  toiittj,  and  to 
him  it  is  said  (he  nameof  "  theThimdararaf  TbTWt" 
was  originally  applied.  Hia  aalary,  it  ia  atalad,  was  twa 
thonaand  a  ywr  and  a  share  of  the  paper.  Ue  died  at 
SoDth  Place,  KnigbCsbridge,  on  SepLS,  1847,  aged  Nrcntf- 
fonr.  His  accompliahed  son  John  was  an  aminwit  altK 
and  easajiat,  tha  friand  of  Wordsworth,  Coleiidtn  Dt 
Qninoer,  and  other  distingnl^ed  dho.] 

TopOS&AFHi. — Wanted  the  names  of  two  or 
three  of  the  latest  works  which  for  matter  and 
arrangement  may  be  considered  amongst  the  b«st 
examples  of  local,  especially  parochial,  bistoiy. 
I  have  not  yet  seen  Major  Mshwick's  Hida^i  <:f 
the  Parochiai  Chmdry  of  Goomargh,  mentiontid 
vrith  approbation  in  "  N.  4  Q."  for  Feb.  18, 1871. 

"Thb  World's  JcDOum."  —  A  late  nanber 
of  the  Qtiarterl!/  Semew  be^ns  with  the  state- 
ment that  "  a  great  poet  bos  said  that  t^  history 
of  the  world  is  the  judgment  of  tbe  worid 
What  great  poet  P  D.  Blus. 


called  "  The  Thunderer,  written  i 


GERMAN  ETTMOLOQICAL  DICTrONAEIEB. 
(4*  S.  vii  303, 380.) 

It  is  really  very  difficult  to  give  a  plwn  answer 
to  this  "  foreigner  in  distress,*  beeanse  all  depends 
upon  the  exact  meaning  of  a  "  good  "  Gennan 
etymological  dictionary,  and  of  "small  compass." 
Chambers's  dictionary,  mentioned  1^  your  cor- 
respondent, is  certainly  cleverly  done.  It  is  made 
up  from  the  latest  etymological  informatioa,  ud 
although  I  discover  in  it  sometimes  queer  snd 
foolish  Dutch  and  German  words,  which  make  ms 
laugh,  I  must  confess  that  I  should  be  glad  if 
Holland  poBseesed  so  (generally)  correct  a  vocabu- 
lai7  on  such  a  scale. 

Something  like  Chambers's  dictionary  was  is- 
sued in  Oermanyin  1834,  entitled  "  S<^jnittheii- 
ner  (Priedr.),  £una  deuitckt$  WUrteriuck  fir 
Etgmolooie,  Sytionymik  tmd  OrthogrofAU.  Dana* 
stadt,  Mete." 

This,  I  think,  would  do  tor  the  FoUiaxsB, 
aspetially  as  the  original  price  of  this  book  was 
but  IS  thaler,  or  6a.  The  second  edition,  pub- 
lishetf  in  1837,  cost  3  thalers,  or  6«.    In  lS63 


ia8.Tn.  M*rar,7i.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIEa 


Frot  Weig&nd  commenced  a  third  "  vbllig  om- 
gearbeitete  Auflage  "  of  this  dictioDfuy,  and  it  was 
completed  last  jeat.  It  ia  much  imjooved,  and 
msv  tts  said  to  be  d  ^  hauttw  at  ita  time.  The 
'WeU-known  bibliographical  review,  LiUraritcktt 
Caitralblatt  fur  Deutichlmd  (1871,  No.  12),  tayt 
that  it  "cannot  be conipsred",witb any otherGer- 
man  dictioaarr  of  late.  ItcoetaS  tbalen,oilI.  4s. 
I  do  DOt  mention  Adelung's  works,  which  were 
marrels  for  their  time,  but  have  loat  much  <^ 
th^  value  sinc«  the  xnence  of  lanrnagee  has 


The  ^trto-AMcA  der  JaOtOtit  i^>rtuAt  in  3»- 
xkhmng  auf  AMammung  umd  Btgr^MiAmg,  >>j 
Konr.  Schweuck,  first  made  its  appearance  in  1834 
(Friu)kfoTtK)n-Maii],  Sauerlander),  followed  in 
1836  b7  a  second,  and  in  1838  by  a  third  edition. 
Tbs  cost  of  each  isaoe  was  2|  tbalers,  or  8s.  In 
186G  there  was  published  a  fourth  editjon  (price 
7t.),  which,  if  I  mistake  not,  is  the  kat  of  this 

Then  there  ia  Heyse's  excellent,  but  rather 
antifnated  Bandvieriirhiiek  der  deuUchm  ^r<uA», 
init  Smtidit  mtf  S»(At»iAr«S>wng,  Abdantmmtfi 
mtd  BilAau,  Bii^mg  tmi  Mgiatg  der  WSrtar,  so 
wit  aaf  derm  Smnveneondtchaft  (Magdeburg, 
Heinrichshofen),  pnblisbed  in  parts,  the  first  of 
'whiehappea»diiil841,andtheWinia49.  The 
whole  ooet  6  thalere  oi  18t. 

I  do  not  know  whether  Dr.  Sanders'  lug«  Wor- 
teriv^  der  deuttehen  Spracke,  mil  StJme»  von 
lAllher  Ui  ouf  die  Otgenwort  (Ldpiig,  Wigaod, 
1868-186G,  S4  thalen  =».  12*.),  of  which  there 
geared  an  abridged  edition  m  1868  (Leipcig, 
Wigand,  S^  thalers=  It.  6d.),  contains  any  e^- 
mol^jcal  ezplanatiooa,  but  I  should  think  it  doea, 
for  &MBe  prefers  it  to  Orimm's  dictionary,  the 
principal  ingredient  of  which  is  e^moli^. 

I  must  wmd  up  this  dry  but  neceseuy  enume- 
latiou  by  mentiouius  also  W.  Hoifmann's  big 
vocabulary,  entitled  VoUttdadiget  Wiirterbuch  der 
deuttchen  Sprache,  Toie  lie  in  der  aligem.  UteraUtr, 
der  Foeeie,  dem  Wineitee/tafie*,  Zmden,  tLM.w. 
fftbrauchkeh  itt,  tnii  Astgabe  der  Abitammang,  der 
R»dUtehr»bvng,der  Wortformen,%^w.  (Jkitsrbog, 
Coldilz,  1861  and  foUowisg  yean.)  This  dic- 
tionaiy  was  published  in  about  aixtyparta  at  9d. 
«ad).  H.  TuDBitm. 


■  Potam  On  Fob 
kii  KiMt  <Hodoiuu7  (e 
dietumaiy /Br  dii  Ait 


■  POBBMHBR  may  find  a  cheap  oapy  of 
...  *xj  (Mvwal  •ditirai),  or  of  his  smaUar 
VjKr  dit  Auetprat^,  Ortiograplat,  Biegimg  imd 
EWHH^  (aeveral  aditioaa  lo  1B20, 1S8&,  1846,  Ac),  whish 
It  crigiDslly  Si,  aod  1ms. 


EXTKAOBDINABT  LEQEHD  FROM  G&ISS- 
BUBGH. 
(4*  3.  vii.  251.) 
I  send  soma  farther  correspondence  oonceming 
the  angel  who  is  said  to  have  appeared  at  Gaine- 
burgh,  cut  (rom  the  Oamdiurgh  JVewi  of  March  25 
and  April  1.  Ekwabd  Fuoock. 

~  w,  Brigg. 


"Sir,— IhavailotaDOCMded  in  tracing  'thakfead  of 
QainsbnTgh,'  irtiich  liai  been  so  lars*ly  bdieved  In  Janey, 
to  aar  nit«  IbandUJMi.  Hr.  Sandtord'a  lattat  (anck^ 
sun  1)  m>T  peailbl/  explain  its  orlfin,  allbcnigh  tha 

lalM  acta  of  that  lettai  an  ineomct,  suice  the  story  ma 
current  in  Hr.  yothergOl'i  time,  who  pniceded  H r.  Beckett 
as  vicar  here.  Of  Its  eonency  in  1819  I  have  aulldant 
eridence  in  the  (eacjmon/  of  ■  tnutvoithy  living  witaiai^ 
Captain  Ward,  of  Croe*  Street,  In  ttiii  K  —    -■-    -    - 


PoTtsdown  Hill,  a  few  milea  from  Pottamontli,  twie* 
daring  tba  nimmer  of  IS19,  aid  who  with  his  abipmataa 
took  many  cepiea  et  the  paper.  Captain  Ward  uaora 
me  tlut  there  was  no  fmindation  for  the  legend  known 
at  Gaineborfib  at  tliat  time,  and  ha  believes  it  to  be  a 
pnra  iaveoticoi  from  beglnidng  to  efld.    I  tiave  also  luul 


wardens  of  Cambonia,  in  CoiuwaU,  enclosing  an  £ 
..... r  .j,g  legend^  —■•  ■ — ^-' -■■-  -- 

IS  fomsd  ai 

id  it 

the  ehnr 
threepano 

acoonnt  is  _   .__,  — , , ,  — 

tallin  with  the  French  acoonnt  now  drcBlating,  of  which 
I  sent  yon  a  tranaiatiaa,  ezoept  in  statlDK  that  the  ap- 
parition was  seen  on  Jannary  10,  in^aaifof  April  i.  In 
the  year  1819.  On  the  wbole,  then,  I  cannct  help  thinking 
that  the  story  originated  in  tha  eouth-west  of  England 
where  it  tass  ahrays  had  Its  home,  and  that  It  bad  no 
foondation  whatever  in  any  aveit  tbat  bappeoed  here. 
If  the  dnmken  freak  spoken  of  by  Mr.  Chapman  had 
been  improved  by  some  fsrtile  brain  into  an  angel  risi- 
tatjon,  and  a  warning  to  repentance,  the  names  of  tlw 
witneiaee  wonid  enrelv  have  been  reoognisabls  aa  lu- 
hahttanta  or  dmrcb  ofldals,  which  la  net  ttie  case  now. 
encloae  cindes  of  the  two  letters  I  have  menUoned.  The 


churchwardens'  letter  has  eve^  appearanoe  of  being  fifty 

years  (^  bat  is  Ditdat«d,aai)nepaatiBaifc  upon  it * 

be  dedpbered  with  oertainty.— I  am,  dear  air,  you 


truly,  .  J.  Clbkekts. 

-  Tba  Tlcaiaga,  Oaloabargfa,  Uaroh  18, 1871." 
[Endoesra  I.] 
"EKbn  Vicarage,  aheffleld,  March  ISth,  187L 

*■  Rev.  Mr.  Clemaole.— Bav.  Sir,— I  writs  to  yon  by  the 
de^re  of  Hr.  WilMam  Ch^nnan,  66,  Oxford  Boad,  Sbaf- 
fiald.  and  fbcmarly  a  msBlMr  of  the  choir  at  Qainalmrgh. 
He  wishes  me  to  InRnm  yon  tliat  the  '  Angd  atory '  was 
all  a  hoaa,  cauaed  by  a  drankeD  man,  who  had  thrown  a 
rope  over  the  chnrcb  bell  and  pulled  it  by  niEht.  He 
adds  that  the  Rev.  George  Beelutt  was  vicar  at  that  time, 
Cain  Barnes  the  elark,  and  Thomas  Fanr,  or  hia  aoa-in> 
law,  Qeo^  Bown  saxiMi,  and  Mr.  Ein«  the  Baptiat 
mi^stsr,  and  the  myststy  WBsAiIly  eqlaiaed  at  the  fimel  1  ^ 
I  am,  your  fititbf ol  servant,  < 

**  Obo.  SavDPOBD,  Tlear  «f  EUoa." 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*8.Tn.H*T27,'TI. 


[EndMiiwa.] 

"  To  the  Churchwsrdeos  of  Gainsbnreh.— GBnliemen,— 
If  the  enclowd  «ocount  be  a  fabricalion,  doaigoed  to  im- 
pose on  the  public,  donblfM  the  prinwr  ongbt  to  b«  pro- 
•ocnted.  If  correct,  we  shall  be  glad  to  see  it  confirmed 
by  ft  letUr  to  the  cborehwardBiu  of  C«mbonie,  Cornwall. 
Gentlemen,  yonr  obedient  MrranU,  the  Cbubchwaiidrss 
of  Caubobhh." 

"We  may  menlion  that  the  file  of  the  Stamford  Mtr- 
cury  for  1819  bu  been  feferred  to,  and  that  do  allaidoD 
(0  the  legend  can  be  found.  A  gentleman  well  able  to 
form  an  opinion  on  the  matWr  writei :  '  I  think  it  is  veiy 
probable  the  sheet  alleged  to  have  been  printed  at  Lin- 
coln mav  have  been  printed  many  milca  away.  In  thoM 
davi  '•  pattereia"  naed  to  wander  from  town  to  town 
aeliing  calendara  of  pri»one^^  and  when  the  calendars 
became  stale  they  got  counCrv  printers  to  print  wondeirnl 
Btories,  to  which  tbey  contrived  to  give  sometimes  a  local 
and  somelima  a  distant  babitadon.  I  remember  ft  won- 
derful story  of  the  kind  being  printed  in  Berkshire,  and 
the  dales  and  places  were  altered,  and  imprints  invented. 
It  would  be  easy  to  suhatitate  Gainsbargh  for  any  other 
place,  giving  either  fictitious  names,  or  tuicg  names  that 
may  have  been  known  to  the  printer.  I  have  no  doubt 
the  French  broadsheet  is  the  tianslation  of  as  English 
"  patterer's  "  dodge  to  get  a  living.' " 

><  Dear  Sir, — I  send  von  a  last  communication  on  Uiis 
subject.    It  is  plain  enough  now  that  Gainabnrgh  folks 
never  invented  and  never  Believed  in  the  marvallons  fable 
which  has  had  sacb  a  long  life  in  the  West  Country. 
"  I  am,  y on  rs  faithfully, 

"  J.  Cleubhts. 

"The  Vicarage,  March  27th,  1871." 

»  Beckingbam,  March  SStb,  1871.— Sir,— t  felt  no  little 
inrprise  to  »e  in  the  Gainsburgh  paper  the  story  of  the 
angel  in  the  belfry  of  Gainsborgh  church.  It  brought 
vividlv  to  my  memory  Che  same  story,  of  which  I  saw 
an  acconnt  in  1819,  when  niy  hoaband  and  Mr.  Forrfst 
were  churchwardens.  Mr.  Farley  received  the  printed 
paper,  and  a  letter  from  a  gentleman  asking  if  it  was 
true.  We  both  read  it,  and  well  knowing  It  was  'an 
entire  falsehood,'  no  notice  was  taken  of  it.  Mr.  Pother- 
gilt  I  think,  was  Vicar  of  Gainsburgh,  not  Mr.  Sling  ; 
and  Cain  Barnes  was  the  clerk.  I  have  wished  not  to 
notice  the  storv  again,  but  aeeing  It  Interests  many,  and 
fueling  sorry  for  any  one  to  believe  in  what  is  really  false, 
I  have  been  indnced  to  trouble  yon. — I  am,  sir,  yoni^ 
ACq  U.  A.  FuxLii.— Rev.  3.  ClenMnts." 


THE  LETTEE  OF  "SI "  EXPLAINED. 
(4*  a  Tii.  406.) 
The  letter  commuiiicated  1);  T.  P.  F.  finm  the 
pepeis  of  the  Duke  of  Henchester  ivill  Rppeei  veiy 
em^fttical  to  most  reftders ;  but  I  think,  ia  coa- 
•equence  of  some  inqtiiiiee  'which  I  made  three  or 
four  yeais  ago,  I  can  go  a  good  way  towarde  ita 
elndoatioD.  It  is  written  by  •  pereon  who  signs 
SX,  to  another  who  is  addreaeed  as  "  Deare  Essei," 
and  in  the  sixth  line  "  my  lord  of  Sx  "  is  named. 
In  the  ei^th  line  mention  is  made  of  "  my  lord 
nutiqnu  Hertford,"  which  places  ita  date  after 
June  8, 1640,  when  that  title  was  first  confetted 
on  the  loval  Earl  of  Hertford,  who  in  1680  be- 
came Dtilce  of  Somerset  His  contemporary  aa 
Earl  of  Essex  was  the  Parliamentarian  general, 


t  question 
light  be  8 


who  died  on  Sept.  14,  1646,  leaving  no  succes- 
sor to  his  title.  Thus  the  date  of  the  letter  i« 
limited  to  the  period  of  little  more  than  six  years 
between  1640  and  164a  The  next  q 
Who  was  the  writer?    Not,  s 

ned,  a  Countess  of  Eseei ;  bat  (as  I  take  it)  a 
y  who  bore  Essex  as  her  baptismal  name,  end 
who  also  gave  the  same  name  to  her  daughter. 
The  letter  was  written  (as  I  believe)  by  Lady 
Essex  Cheke,  the  widow  of  Sir  Thomas  Cheke, 
and  it  Vas  addressed  to  her  daughter  Essex, 
Countess  of  Manchester.  Her  son  who  had  fonght 
the  dael  must  have  been  Robert  Cheke,  E>ii., 
her  eldest  son,  who  in  the  year  1660  preferred  bis 
claim  to  the  barony  of  Fitz-Walter  (against 
Heoiy  Hildmsy)  in  right  of  his  graodmothet 
Frances  Ratcliffe,  but  aflierwanls  died  without 
issue.  His  antagonist,  Sir  Edward  Baynton,  was 
of  Bromham  in  Wiltshire,  and  died  in  1657  at  the 
age  of  sixty-fear.  His  wound,  therefore,  was  not 
fatal. 

Her  other  daughter,  firom  whom  Lady  Eassx 
Cheke  was  anxious  to  keep  back  all  tidinga  of  the 


wick  of  that  family ;  and  "  Lesse  "  is  Leeie  b 
Essex,  the  seat  of  the  Earl  of  Warwick.  "Hy 
Lady  Carlile,"  whom  the  writer  had  been  enter- 
taining, I  believe  to  have  been  Maivaret  (Russell), 
wife  of  James  Hay,  Earl  of  Caruale ;  and  it  u 
remarkable  that  some  years  after  (the  Eari  of 
Carlisle  dying  in  1660),  she  became  the  ffOt  and 
last  wife  of  the  Earl  of  Manchester,  Essex  Cheke 
having  been  his  third.  Eesex,  CounteM  of  Man- 
chester, died  on  Sept  26, 1658,  and  was  buried  in 
Eimbolton  church  on  Oct  13.  Her  mother,  Iks 
writer  of  the  letter,  had  died  only  one  month 
before  her,  for  she  was  buried  in  the  same  church 
on  Sept.  1  in  the  same  year.  An  article  in  the 
fifth  volume  of  7b  ifeniU  and  OetudogU, 
pp.  114  165,  hss  for  ^ts  object  to  disentangle  the 
erroneous  statements  into  which  several  writers 
have  fallen  in  K«ard  to  "  The  Marriaffea  of  Robert 
lUch,  second  Earl  of  Warwick,  Admiral  of  the 
Fleet;  of  Edward  Montague,  Lord  Eimbolton 
and  second  Earl  of  Mancheater;  and  of  Robert 
Rich,  fifth  Earl  of  Warwick  and  second  Earl  of 
Holland."  The  first-nemed  had  three  wives,  of 
which  ladies  the  second  had  two  husbands,  and  the 
third  had  four.  The  Earl  of  Manchester,  as  I 
have  already  said,  had  five  wives,  and  tluee  of 
tliem  were  widows.  The  fourth  was  already  dow- 
ager Countses  of  Sussex  and  of  Warwi^,  and 
was  the  same  lady  just  now  mentioned  as  bang 
altogether  the  wife  of  four  husbends.  The  Peer- 
sgee  generally  are  so  deficient  in  dates  as  to 
ladies,  tlut  I  extended  my  researches  for  that 
article  in  order  to  show  how  much  there  still 
remains  to  be  done  to  comi^ete  onr  goneslorit*! 
histories  in  that  respect    The  letter  printsft  m 


4*  S.  TIL  Mat  !T,  71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


459 


"N.  &  Q."  cornea  in  good  sequence  to  exemplify 
tlie  value  of  such  compiUtions,  and  wbst  oseut- 
BDce  they  msy  give  iu  the  identific&tioa  and  illua- 
tration  ot  historical  documents. 

JouK  QovoR  Nichols. 

May  not  this  letter  he  from  Euex  (ChrietiBn 
name),  third  wife  of  the  second  Earl  of  Man- 
cheater,  to  her  daughter  Essex,  wife  of  Lord 
Irwrn?  "My  sonne  Ro."  and  "your  brother 
Ro."  might  be  Robert  Montague,  the  step-son  of 
Essex,  liady  Manchester,  and  consequenuy  balf- 
brother  of  Essex,  Lady  Irwyn.  F.  S. 

Kroome  Selwood. 


BLIKK  nnu  WINE. 
(4"-  S.  7ii.  326.) 
A  contributor  in  s  late  number  asaerta  that  to 
)  ogling,  and  that  to  hUnk  at  ought  to 
leink  at.     Theae  suggested 


bo  substituted  for  t 


meanings  I  shall  attempt  to  show  the  words  have 
not,  and  ought  not  to  nave.  He  proposes  to  re- 
legate viink  to  the  realms  of  vulgarity.  Nov,  this 
is  Burely  bold,  seeing  that  we  find  its  use  hallowed 
in  such  passages  as  the  following.  Let  uB  trust 
that  the  new  translators  are  not  of  such  an  opinion, 
and  that  they  will  let  well  alone : — 

"And  tlie  times  of  tbla  ignorance  God  uinktd  at" 
{iwtpOky  i  flrii).— Acta  xra  80.* 

"  Ton  msj  as  well  «presd  ont  the  nnionn'd  heaps 
Of  niHr'a  trewnre  by  an  onUaw's  den, 
And  lell  me  it  is  BoTe,  u  bid  me  bope 
Dancer  vllt  m'ni  an  Og^pottunity, 
And  let  a  aingle  helpleu  maiden  pass 
UniDjored  in  this  wild  aurroonding  wut«." 

JiOtoH,  Gnuu. 
Shakspeare  also  baa  "  wioking-gatea,"  i.  e.  gates 
dottd  from  fear  of  danger. 

Now,  theprimaiy  meaning  of  wmk  is  that  of  the 
exclusion  of  liglit.  that  of  hUkk  the  presence  of, 
and  giving  out  of,  light  Let  ua  look  at  this  in 
the  cognate  languages  :— 

WniE.  A.-9.,  vincm,  nirere,  nueie,  nictare. 
Germ.,  Wiak,  a  wink,  sign  ;  winken,  to  wink,  sign. 
Dutch,  watken,  to  wink,  beckon.     Swed,,  mnk. 


*  The  lilt  muulatOTS  wold  have  written  oterlmktd, 
bat  Ihii  I  hncj  wonid  have  b«ea  naldlomatic  sod  ititF. 
Luthei  has  "Ubenehen;  tbe  Swedish  version  "Bfver- 
wlt"  ;  Ihe  Dntch  "oTergraien" — all  literal  eqnivalenta 
Tlifl  old  version  of  the  pastors  of  Geneva  liaa  "  dia- 
aimuM "  i  tbe  Spanish  "  dlmioialaDdo,"  while  Beza  is 
umewbit  redundant,  "  temporibns  Istios  ignoiantia  eon- 
niveudo  disimulttts."  Now,  "connivso"  la  lovinilwith 
the  eyes;  n  "md  minima  tonltraa  et  fdlgnra  connivere" 
(Saetonioi).  It  has  alio  metapbarlcaUy  tlie  meaning  of 
to  (uut  at  a  matter, take  no  notice  of;  as  Cicero,  -tM 
ipaa  eoncedo,  qaibosdani  la  rabos  cUatn  eeanimi,"  "  Dia- 
■usnlo "  has  Ihe  selAame  McendaiT  meaning  of  to  taka 
no  potke  of— a.;,  in  Plantns,  "Diadmnlabo  hoe  quasi 
noa  Tidaam."     The  modsm  Greefc  vanion  lias  nfd- 


beck,  dgn ;  vittka,  to  wink,  beckon.  Johnson  has, 
to  thut  the  eyes,  to  exclude  the  light  So  we  find 
such  passages  as  these : — 

"  For  he  that  leniMA  when  be  ibonld  M«, 
Al  vilfollv,  God  let  him  oever  the  (thrive)." 

ChHCO-. 

"  For  ofle,  who  that  bede  toke, 
Better  is  it  to  loyiiA  then  to  lake." 

Thus  we  say,  "  I  never  slept  a  wink,"  i.  e.  never 
doled  an  eye.     And  so  thus : — 

"fieeiuM  it  waa  night  wee  staved  in  the  aaa,  where 
wee  and  our  sbippes  were  not  a  little  troubled,  so  that  all 
that  oight  none  of  na  slept  a  ainlu,  but  watched  everv- 
one." — Hackbtyt,  Voyagtt, 

BunK.  A.S.,  Afi'ain,corruscare,micare.  Danish, 
blik,  also  UijA,  a  gleam,  glance;  blmke,  to  gleam. 
Swed.,  bUtA,  twinkling.  Ftem.,  bHaking,  splen- 
doni;  UfnA-uwrm,  glowworm.  Dutch,  6Jti,  white 
of  the  eye,  twinkle,  glance,  look;  bWdien,  to 
glisten;  em  bimk,  a  clear  spot  in  a  cloudy  sky — 
e.  g.  IjMink,  in  the  polar  seas.  Now,  Et^Iish 
to  blink  has  iu  Dutch,  as  synonymous,  gUtrea 
(Scotch,  to  glour),  to  look  steadfastly  at;  also 
oogat,  from  which  is  English  to  ogU,  to  look 
steadfastly  at  and  with  some  sort  of  impudently 
contorted  expression  of  features.  (Lat,  Umi»  ocuiis 
intueri.)  Genu.,  BUek,  look,  glance,  flash  (of 
light)  i  so  iu  Scotch,  blinkit  mUk,  such  as  baa  been 
soured  by  lightning;  bUnJtm,  to  glance,  shine; 
die  Blidce,  the  brightest  [wrts  of  a  picture.  Who 
does  not  know  the  following  P — 

■■  Dq  Scbwert  an  meiner  Llnkeo, 
Was  mil  dein  htitra  BliHitii  t 
SchaoM  mir  so  fieundlich  an  "  ; 

and  further  on — 

"  Mich  trtgt  eia  wackrer  Rdter, 


Jamieson,  a  beam,  ray ;  to  blink,  to  open  the 
^es,  look  with  a  favourable  eye,  &c.    And  so  I 
oee  with  the  foUowiilg  additional  illustrations: — 
"Than  noon  him  sbe  keat  np  both  hereyne. 
And  with  a  ttitik  it  oome  fa  till  hia  thoagbt 
That  he  sometime  her  bee  before  had  seen." 

CamjAaU  of  Crttudt. 
"  Biloo,  baloo,  my  wee  wee  thing. 
0  satUy  closB  thy  UMing  ee." 

Gotf .  CraiU  Svng. 
"  Tbe  maid  pat  on  her  kirtle  broon  [ 
She  was  the  btaweat  In  a'  the  tono ; 
she  didna  sloom, 

"  Tfow  almmer  Wait  on  flowery  biae^ 

And  o'er  tbe  crystal  streamlet  plays; 

Come  let  as  epend  the  UghUotu  days 

In  the  larks  of  Abarfeldy." 

SMnm.  -,    „ 
JOHK  CUWTOBD.  S 
^  Argyll  Street,  Glaigow. 


il  biiiJat  bonailie. ' 


460 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[l**  8.  VII.  Mat  ST.  7L 


The  nae  of  wmk  for  UmA  in  ui  nnpleoMitlT 
SHg^Mtire  manual;  is  by  no  meaos  modern.  The 
pitj  is  tiist  vmk  has  become  so  nurowed  in  oui 
modecn  ears  to  its  vulgar  oflmff  meuung.  Hen 
are  two  pasaages  from  Sh^e^eaie's  Vimu  and 
Adonit  (1.  90  and  121)  :— 

"  Bat  when  her  lipa  were  ready  for  hii  pay. 
Ha  wuiili,  and  tonu  hla  lipa  another  w&y." 

"'Art  thou  aahamed  to  klM  ?  tbea  wiiUi  (gain. 
And  I  viU  viiJi;  »  abaU  the  day  «sein  nlgbt."' 

Adonis,  in  fact,  Qlosaa  his  ayes  from  the  sight  of 
her.  JoBH  Ajidis. 


BBITISH  aCTTHE-ABMED  CHABIOT& 
(4>*>  S.  L  414  i  vlL  95,  240,  832.) 
Mb.  JxsMtms,  who  maint»inr>  in  oppoution 
to  Mr.  Trollope  that  the  aniuent  Britons  used 
ecytbe-armed  eoviiu,  appeaie  to  rely  principallj 
upon  the  authority  of  the  work  D«  Sita  Sriamaa, 
attributed  to  Bicnard  of  Cirenceeter.  This  l>eing 
the  case,  it  should,  I  think,  be  noted  that  grave 
doabts  exist  as  to  the  genuineness  of  that  produc* 
tion ;  in  fact  it  is  now,  I  believe,  very  generally 
ranked  with  the  peeudo  Ingulf.  But  suppose  it 
to  be  antfaentic,  what  weight  can  an  aaaertion 
made  by  a  monk  in  the  fbuiteentli  century  have 
as  Bgamst  the  negative  testimony  of  Cnsai;  and 
Tacitus  ?  The  truth  ia,  however,  that  the  atata- 
ment  extracted  from  the  so-callad  Richard  of 
Oireacestei  by  Hk.  JaBBifUH  is  itself  taken  from 
Pomponius  Mela's  work,  Dt  aOu  Orbit  (lib.  iii.  &\, 
vrhicn  was  most  probably  written  about  the  middle 
or  towards  the  end  of  ma  first  century.  I  have 
not  this  treatise  at  hand,  so  I  cannot  give  the 
exact  words  of  the  passage  therein  relating  to 
eoeim,  "falcatis  axibus,"  but  I  believe  that  the 
parallel  passage  in  the  pseudo  Richard  (lib.  i. 
c.  iiL  §  14)  ia  taken  ttora  Mela,  almost  if  not  quite 
verbatim :  and  it  is  clear  that  to  the  testimony  of 
Mela  we  owe  the  "  stereotyped  statement"  re- 
specting BritishBcythe-armea  chariots.  Whether 
or  not  that  statement  is  correct,  I  do  not  pretend 
to  know;  bat  it  seems  reasonable  to  suppose  that 
Cnsar  would  have  told  us  something  abont  the 
covini  in  qnestion  if  the  Brilons  of  his  day  had 
used  them.  He  mentions  the  uteda,  as  everybody 
knows,  and  the  caofuaion  they  caused  — "  terrore 
eqnonim  et  strepitu  rotonun  ;  but  surely,  if  there 
had  been  any  chariots  armed  with  scythes,  he 
would  have  specified  thoae  formidable  weapons  as 
sources  of  terror,  rather  than,  or  at  all  events  in 
addition  to,  the  horses  and  the  wheels.  It  does 
aeem  probable,  however,  that  acythe-ormed  cha- 
riots were  used  in  Britun  subsequently  to  Ciesar'a 
expedition.  As  I  have  said,  Mela  exprwaly  meD~ 
tioos  them,  and  thongh  Tacitus  (in  Fitd  AgrK. 
i  18)  doea  not,  yet  his  notice  of  British  wv-cha- 
nota  at  all  ia  ao  cursory  that  no  argument  against 
the  scythe  theoiy  can  hirly  be  drawn  bom  it } 


nttber  the  contwy,  in  fact,  for  the  chariots  men- 
tioned by  Tacitus  were,  at  all  events,  mvmi.  I 
may  add  (1)  that  a  pasuge  from  Strabo  (iv.  200) 
is  quoted  in  Camden  (&ita»ma,  vtd.  L  p.  x.  ttL 
Oough)  to  Uie  affect  that  the  Britons  used  chia- 
riots  in  war  a*  Ot*  Gaidt  did ;  and  (2)  that  the 
scythed  covmt  mentioned  bv  Mela  and  the  paaodo 
Bichaid  after  [him  are  said  to  have  been  armed 
GaUicd."  Still  the  whole  qnesticMi  is  involved 
in  doubt,  and  I  venture  to  thuik  that  a  brocJun 
upon  ancient  British  war-chariota  by  sobm  aocotn- 
pliahed  anhiMlogist  is  a  Uteniy  dendMatmn. 

w.A.a 

NewariL 

There  ia  a  certain  amount  of  nentive  evidence 
touching  the  queatioa  mooted  in  the  fact  that  at 
least  thrae  interments  involving  the  presence  of 
a  buried  "andent  British  chariot"  have  been  met 
with  in  Yorkshire.  Two  of  these  are  noticed  in 
Phillips'  YortuMrt,  p.  209,  with  a  refsrenoe  for 
fuller  information  to  the  Mmioirt  of  Ua  Font 
Meetiuff  of  tiie  Ardi.  IiuL  1846.  The  third  was 
discovered  by  Mr.  Kendall  of  IHckerm^,  in  a 
tumulus  near  Cawthom  Camps.    He  described  to 


iving  1 


B  the  wheel-tires  and  other 


parts  of  the  "  find""  still  extant,  the  whole  ti 
action,  from  the  first  meeting  with  the  hole  near 
its  extremity  to  the  complete  unearthing  of  the 
whole.  But  the  minute  examination  of  the  eo- 
tire  interment  seemed  to  have  revealed  notliing  to 
lead  to  the  inference  that  scythes  bad  existed. 
The  horse-trappings  found  showed  that  draught 
from  the  chest,  not  the  shoulder,  of  the  small 
horses  employed  had  been  the  rule.  Z  shouM 
think  Mr.  Kendall  would  give  any  infonnation 
asked  to  any  "  anxious  inquirer," 

J.  0.  ATKnrMX. 
Danby  in  Clevaland. 


THE  COMPLETiON  OF  ST.  PAULS,    f 
(4»>  B.  vi.  poMim  I  vii,  190,  241,  344,  S90,  434.) 

I  am  very  elad  that  the  few  reaufka  which  I 
made  upon  this  coDtemplated  work  has  brought 
forward  »o  distinguished  an  aidiitaetiual  writer 
as  Mb.  Jaios  FBRanMCR  to  explain  moce  fully 
than  haa  been  hitherto  known  to  the  public  the 
proceedinga  of  the  committee  in  reference  to  tiua 
great  undertaking,  and  the  iinfin't"  amngMuantB 
which  are  to  be  carried  out 

Mb.  Fbbsusboit  Hiar-Uima  any  aniliority  fhxn 
the  committee  for  the  explanationa  which  ha  hai 
{^ven,  but  no  doubt  he  expresses  In  a  great  mea- 
sure the  oj^niona  of  his  coUeagnea,  though  I 
vanture  to  think  there  are  aotiu  of  tlum  who 
would  not  altogether  endoraa  his  viaw&  To  di^ 
cuss  all  the  points  raised  by  Mb.  FsMonanr  at 
proper  length  would  take  up  too  much  apaea  !■ 


*»8.vilmat27,7io  NOTEfe  AND  QUERIES. 


in?  0 
opiiuoi 


jouT  -vAlualjle  columns,  I  must  theiefote  confine 
mjsetf  to  Bome  brief  replies. 

In  reference  to  the  poidtion  of  the  oi^&n,  in  the 
teeth  of  such  accumulated  authoritj  tu  the 
"unanimoua  ojunion  of  twelve  of  the  most  emi- 
nent musical  men  in  Ehiglaad,"  it  eeema  piesnmD- 
toona  to  BuggeBt  tltat  an;  other  arrangement  could 
have  been  adopted,  eeeiug  that  the  iostrament  is 
to  be  available  for  the  serrices  in  the  present 
choir  as  irell  aa  for  those  under  the  dome ;  but  I 
can  hardly  think  Mb.  FE&auRaoN  to  be  Berious 
when  he  wonld  make  us  believe  that  an  oi^i;aii  to 
be  as  powerftil  as  aaj  organ  in  Enf^and,  even  if 
the  two  halves  project  octj  five  feet  on  either 
side,  can  be  bo  placed  as  not  to  ahstnict  the  view 
"la  any  appredaole  manner  from  anv  person  stand- 
'""  ""  tne  floor  of  the  church.  My  humble 
is  so  utterly  opposed  to  Mb.  FxafirssoH's 
about  the  o^ans  ho  placed  being  "just  what 
ia  wanted  to  famish  the  choir  arch,  that  I  moat 
declise  to  foUow  him  in  that  argument.  It  seema 
to  me,  as  it  does  to  many  otiiera,  that  it  will 
totally  mar  the  arckitectonJ  effect  of  that  part  of 
thecatbedraL 

Mb.  FEBanaaoK  next  menUons  the  plan  pro- 
posed in  the  Sacritty,  which  su^^gests  the  erection 
of  an  altar  with  steps,  baldachmo,  and  all  proper 
accompanimeuta  under  the  arch  leading  to  the 
choir,  and  dismisses  it  in  a  summary  manner  as 
the  production  of  men  who  have  no  idea  of  scale, 
and  incapable  of  judging  of  the  efiect  of  thai 
scheme  if  lealiaed. 

I  tbink  Mb.  Fkbsitsson  is  in  ihis  matter  utterly 
mistaken.  I  have  not  the  pleasure  of  knowing 
the  author  of  the  plan  so  carefully  studied  and 
drawn  to  scale  in  the  Sacriity;  but  as  I  know 
something  of  drawing,  and  fancy  I  understand  a 
plan,  I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying  that  a  moat 
eSectire  design  might  be  produced  upon  the  lines 
of  that  plan,  and  I  can  acarcely  imagine  a  more 
beautiful  poution  for  a  well-demgned  baldachino, 
crowning  an  altar  properly  raised,  and  surrounded 
by  all  theneceMary  arrangements  tmdertS*  chancel 
orcA  (not  under  the  dome),  thos  giving  dignity 
to  the  sanctuary,  and  that  prominence  which  it 
entirely  lacks  in  its  present  low  position  in  the 
eastern  apee.  I  would  not  pass  so  poor  a  com- 
pliment upon  tlie  accomplished  proiesnonal  ad- 
viser to  the  Dean  and  Chapter  as  to  suppose  that 
he  is  incapable  of  farming  such  an  artistic  grouping 
of  theae  ewential  features  as  would  be  infinitely 
Bupnior  to  "  fumiahing  the  chur  arch  "  with  any 
amount  of  o^an  pipes. 

The  great  difficulty  which  seems  to  present  itself 
to  Ms.  Fbbsttssok'b  mind  is,  that  there  will  be 
apparently  two  churchee  under  one  roof.  I  think 
be  attaches  too  much  importance  to  this  idea. 
Yirtnally  this  is  the  case  in  some  of  our  cathedrals 
and  abbey  churches  at  present,  and  unless  vra  are 
disposed  to  destroy  some  of  the  most  interee^ufr 


must  remain.    Mb.  FsBstrasoK  asks,  ' 

part  of  the  Cathedral  is  l»  be  used  aod  when  the 
other  P 

Surelv  the  daily  services  (when  moderate  num- 
bers only  attend)  can  take  place  in  the  present 
choir  as  usual,  and  for  Sundays  and  other  apedal 
services  additional  to  the  great  Feativala  of  tile 
Chnreh,  the  aitle,  chdi,  transept,  and  nave  would 
most  aoitably  hold  the  vast  congregations  that 
might  assemble. 

in  calling  attention  to  the  plan  given  in  the 
Sacritly,  I  had  no  intention  of  defending  aU  its 
details ;  possibly  tbe  scheme  mi^t  be  improved. 
The  subject  is  not  without  its.  duGcultdes ;  but  in 
sprite  of  Mb.  Fbbgitssoii'b  strictures,  I,  in  common 
with  many  others,  hesitate  in  thiakiog  that  the 

Qosala  as  set  forth  by  him  are  the  best  that  can 
Bviaed.  I  see  no  inconwttency  in  my  remarks 
about  Westminster  Abbey.  The  plans  of  St.  Paul's 
and  Westminster  Abbey  are  so  unlike,  that  dif- 
ferent  treatmento  in  each  building  are  necessary. 
As  you  will  receive  other  communications  upon 
this  interesting  Butiject,  I  will  occupy  no  further 
space,  BxNJAXDi  Fxkbbt. 


THE  BOOKWORM. 

(*"■  S.  Ti.  «27  J  viL  65, 168,  2C2,  546.) 

In  looking  over  some  old  gentleman's  diaries  in 

my  posseauon  I  came  across  tbe  following  re^y 

to  a  query  on  this  subject  propounded  in  1823, 

"  The  bookworm  la  a  miall  white  iitvar«hliiiiig  iowct, 
or  moth,  much  fbuad  amon^  books  and  papers,  ind  is 
sappoaed  to  be  that  which  eau  holea  Uiroogh  the  Ie>vea 
and  covers.  lu  head  la  big  and  bliiaC,  and  its  body 
tapera  from  it  towsrdi  tbe  tail  nnallar  and  muller  ;  tM 
body  la  divided  inlo  fenrtaea  nversl  partidon^  hav^ 
the  appaaranca  of  ao  mauv  iballi,  and  each  of  these  parts 
ia  B^dn  covered  over  wttta  a  multitude  oT  thin  trans- 
paieat  scalea,  whkh,  from  tbe  multiplidtr  <tt  th^  re- 
BectiuK  enrfaoe^  make  the  vhole  animal  anwar  of  a 
perfect  peul  eoloiir.  This  hiseet  la  fnnillMd  on  dther 
side  of  it*  bead  with  a  dosUr  of  eye^  and  each  of  tboa 
deaters  la  beset  with  a  row  of  anuU  briatlea  much  like 
the  lika  or  bain  on  Iha  netidJi,  and  perhap*  they  serve 
for  the  same  pnraoea  li  has  tea  long  boma  cariouely 
ribbed  or  knotted,  having  at  each  dm  email  hairs  or 
brlrtlu,  here  and  there  diaparatd  amoag  them ;  beaidea 
theae  it  baa  two  diorlarlianuoifadei%  which  are  knotted 
md  JHnged.Uke  tbe  fbrmer.  It  baa  tfan*  tails,  In  aveiT 
respect  resembling  tbe  two  lonser  hams  m  tbe  head. 
The  leg!  of  it  an  sulad  and  balrad  Jnat  like  the  other 
parta  of  tU  body.  Tbe  bod;  is  baaat  with  MuU  pcrintad 
briatlea  like  spean.  Dr.  Hook  aaiys  tUa  ulmal  probably 
feedi  on  the  paper  and  leaves  of  boak%  and  perfi>rataa 
amalt  botes  in  them.  To  preveat  the  depreutions  cf 
thia  little  animal,  books  ahonld  be  freqaenUy  aired,  sod 
if  lome  Btrong  amelling  herba,  iQOb  aa  me,  wormwood, 
Ao.,  raaaia  loUher  ahavinga,  or  a  small  piece  of  camphor, 
be  put  among  them,  it  will  tend  gteatly  t~ 


Another  correspondent  sayat^^o 


byCiOOC^IC 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»s.vn.  MAr^7,^l. 


"  Tbe  best  and  only  security  against  bookwonDi  ii  to 
mix  mineral  salti  [which  all  iosecU  abhor]  la  the  paita 
Hied  by  the  bladen." 

OhARLES  PXTIBI. 

Haninienmith. 

Pumell's  poem  on  the  "Bookworm"  wbs  no 
donbt  suggeBted  'by  the  lines  of  Theodore  BezB, 
but  be  bu  introduced  intohiapuaphrese  bo  many 
Kllusioiia  to  other  mtitters,  tWt  the  original  is 
olmoat  entiretj  lost  eight  of.  Painell  is  much 
more  indebted  to  the  feraiity  of  his  own  imEigins- 
tion  than  to  Besa.  The  following  is  the  poem 
referred  to : — 

"ThtodoriBtat  Tiiua; 
Ad  MiaaM  tinitc  wacrificittm  ludtcrutt, 
"  Si  ragat  Cereremqaa  JibenimqM 
Vitn  aolUcitiu  ana  colontu  i 
8i  Mavnrtis  opem  petit  cruentua 
Miles,  ■ollicilui  aiiie  aalatls; 
Qnidol,  Calliope,  tibi  tuiaqae 
Jan  lacra  feram,  qolbiu  placere 
Eat  nnnm  atadium  mihl,  amnibuaqne 
Qui  TBtnm  i  Dumero  volant  haben  i 
Tobia  ergo  fereada  sacra ;  Musiei 
Sed  qoiB  vicUms  grata  ?  qna  Camccnia 
Dicsta  hostla  1  parcite,  d  Camieiue  ; 
NoTS  face  victims,  sed  fotnra  Tobis 
SnaTis,  srbitror,  admodaniqDe  grata. 
Accede,  6  TiDea,  ilia  qua  posUlo' 


Teas  aiToden  tam  sacroa  labores? 
Neo  factam  miht  dencga.     Ecce  furti 
Td!  oxempla,  turn  et  varadtatla. 
Pen*  to  mlbi  patserem  Catoili, 
Paw  to  mlbi  Leabiam  sbetuliatL 
None  carte  mesa  Hie  Hartlalis 
Ima  ad  viaeera  roaoa  tuqoa  Ungne^ 
Ima  et  Ipse  Haro,  cdi  pepeicil, 
Joata  Denre  aiejubente,  flam  ma, 
LMena  denta  tno,  acelcsta,  langnet. 
Quid  dicam  inDnmeroa  ttane  emdito^ 
Qnomm  tu  monnmenta.  In  laboraa 
lato  peaslma  votre  devorlMl  ? 
Prodi,  jam  tonlcam  Tslinqoc,  prodl't 
Tab  1  at  callida  atringit  ipaa  aeae  1 
Ut  mortem  aimnlati  NsieMa  prodI, 
Pro  tot  eriminlboa  datura  pcenaa. 
^•,ktDmjagalotaocnMDt« 
MuerDDsm  ezeipe,  et  iitnm  et  istam. 
■-'-"— Tslargo 


Tide  at  palpltal,  ut  croare 
Aras  pollnit  bee  pioraoa  aa 
At  TM,  Pieridas,  boDMaa  1 
idete  I  jaeet  "  " 
rilega  ma,  qi 


onnqaa  Moan, 
None  gaadete  g  Jaeet  (era  lalerempta, 
.  Jacct  aacrilega  ma,  qaa  aolabat 
Sacros  Fierldnm  vorare  nrrosi 
Banc  vero  tonkam,  baa  dlco,  Camiana, 
ToUa  ezniriaa,  nt  hlnc  Iropainn 
Paroaisa  io  ntedio  loccUa  et  ait 
Hac  ioacrlptfo  i  de  teA  lotaiamU 
Beaa  dat  spoUa  h«c  opima  Mnsia." 


The  following  extract  seems  to  me  worthj  of  a 
pUce  amongst  the  varioue  notea  wbicb  tlie  cor- 
iMpoodenta  of  "  N.  &  Q."  bavs  fiuniabed  on  this 


interesting  topic.  I  tate  it  from  Thomas  DeQgdn- 
cey's  Autobiographic  Sketcket,  chap.  yi. : — 

"  That  library  of  120.000  volumeB,  which  George  IV. 
presented  to  the  nation,  and  which  has  since  ^ne  toawell 
the  collection  at  the  British  Muieam,  had  boen  formed 


(as  I  was  onea  assured  by  penons  to  whom  the  whole 

-   "s  libraiT,(-'  '" "  ' -" 

kmiliarly ) 
ic<  of  Geor 

and  his  eg 


npciintcndcocc  of  George 


ibraiT,  ai „. .    ._  

liliarly  known)  under  the  direct  personal 
-'" III.    It  w-  -   ' ' 


history  of  the  libraiy,  and  its  growth  fiom  small  radi- 
'imiliarly  known) 

ccof  George  III. 

and  his  care  eren 

in  sppropriate  binding  and  (as  one  man 
told  me)  to  their  health:  explaining  himself  to  mean. 
ttiat  in  aoT  case  wbere  a  book  was  worm-eaten,  or  toacbed 
however  slightly  with  the  worm,  the  liing  was  anxious 
to  prevent  the  injutr  from  exlendini;,  or  from  infectine 
others  by  close  neighbourhood  ;  roritissoppowd  by  r 


ScRiPSTTSOB  Cebisthib  Pibcbs  (4*^  S.  vi.  567 ; 
Tii.  146,  201,  SSI.) —  Seebg  tbst  your  correspon- 
dent Mb.  Shaw  mentions  mj  father's  name 
(p.  I46J,  Dean  and  Mundsy,  as  publisher  of 
scripsits,  I  thought  a  few  facta  from  personal  me- 
mory and  knowledge  mi^ht  interest  youi  readers. 
As  a  youngster  some  thirty-fiTS  years  ago  in  mr 
father's  eetablisbment,  the  sate  of  "school  pieces, 
or  "  Christmss  pieces,"  as  they  were  called,  and 
not  scripsits,  was  very  lai^ ;  my  hther  published 
some  thir^  different  sabjects  (a  new  one  OTory 
year,  one  01  the  old  ones  being  let  go  out  of  print), 
liiere  were  also  three  other  pubUahers  of  them. 
The  order  to  print  used  to  average  about  five 
hundred  of  each  kind,  but  double  of  the  Life  of  our 
Saviour.  Moat  of  tne  subjects  were  thoee  of  the 
Old  Testament  I  only  recollect  four  subject* 
not  sacred.  Printing  at  home,  we  generally  com- 
menced the  printing  in  August  from  the  copper- 
plates, as  they  had  to  be  coloured  by  hand.  They 
sold  rettul  nt  wxpence  each,  end  we  used  to  snp- 
pty  them  to  the  trade  at  thirty  shillings  per  gross, 
and  to  schools  at  three  ahillinf^s  and  mipenes  per 
dozen,  or  two  dozen  for  six  shillings  and  stipenoe. 
Charity  boys  were  large  purchasers  of  these  pieoea, 
and  at  Christmas  time  used  to  take  them  round 
their  parish  to  show,  and  at  the  same  time  solicit 
a  trifle.  The  sale  never  began  before  October  in 
the  country,  and  December  in  London ;  and  early 
in  January  the  stock  left  used  to  be  put  by  until 
the  following  season.  It  is  over  fiFteen  years  rinos 
any  were  pruted  hj  mj  £rm,  and  the  last  new 
one  I  find  wm  done  m  lithography. 

8.  A.  H.  Dkah,  of  Dean  and  Son, 
successors  of  Dean  and  Himdaj. 
SroKBT  GoMLPHiif  (4**  S.  vii.  364.)— The 
person  of  this  name  for  whom  W.  D.  C,  inquirse 
u  probably  the  son  of  John  Oodolpbin,  Judge  of 
the  Admiialtv,  who  was  nephew  ot  Sir  WiUiam 
Oodolpbin,  the  grandfather  of  the  Lord  High 
Treasurer.  He  was  bora  166L  and  was  a  colonel 
in  the  armv  and  governor  of  ue  island  of  Seilly. 
He  maniea  Susan,  daughter  of  Reese  Tannat  of 


i^S-Vn.  M4TS7,710 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


A>i>!Ttannnt,  Salop,  Gm^  bv  whom  he  bad  wtstsI 
children;  and  wm  proDablj  aliTe  in  1704,  vhen 
an  Kliiborate  pedigree  of  the  famUy  was  entered  in 
thti  Heralds'  CoUege.  In  this,  however,  the  date 
of  birth  of  the  Lord  Treasurer  is  not  giyen,  hut 
hia  monument  states  that  he  was  aged  sixtj- 
seven  at  hU  death  on  Sept.  16, 1712.      G.  E.  A. 

WOECBSTBB  Akmb  (4"-  S.  rii.  410.)  —  If  Mb. 
Or&zxbbooe  bad  paid  the  visit  he  piomiaed  to  a 
Wonestenhire  antiquaiy  he  mi^ht  have  obtuned 
a  clue  to  some  of  the  names  he  is  bunting  for. 

P. 

"  B&BOH  "  NlCHOLSOS  :  JOHH  DALBTUPLE  (4' 

8.  Tii.  286.) — Amongst  the  chief  contributoTS  to 
The  Town,  Mb.  Bates  mentions  "  the  clever,  but 
profligate  John  Dalrjmple."  To  whom  does  this 
refer?  I  particnlsrlj  hope  Mb.  Bates  vrill  Kplj 
to  this  inquirj.  Si  Qns. 

"Hkabt  of  HbaktTs]"  (4'<'  S.  vii.  362.) — I 
am  quite  unable  to  reply  to  LoBD  Chxlmsfobd's 
tnqturj  as  to  what  has  led  to  the  universal  ex- 
presaion  of  "Heart  of  hearts"  in  the  plural.  I 
can  only  satisfy  him  by  quoting  an  old  authori^ 
for  a  lady  woo  appears  ta  me,  oontrary  to  hu 
expectations,  to  have  been  in  possession  of  two 
hearts. 

Id  that  graceful  sonnet  which  has  been  attri- 
buted to  Sir  Walter  lialeigh,  claimed  by  Lord 
ChesterEeld,  but  written  %  the  Eari  of  Pem- 
broke, who  died  in  1630,  he  addresses  Chnstiana, 
daughter  of  Lord  Bruce  of  Einlos,  thus — 
"Wrong  not,  dearetnprcuof  mjr  h«ut, 

Tbe  meritaof  traa  paaaion. 
With  tbinkiDK  that  lu  Ibela  do  smart 

Wbo  ma  lor  do  compasaion." 
Having  thus  disposed  of  his  heart  to  hia  "  Platonic 
mistress,"  as  manyothen  have  done  under  similar 
drcumstances,  the  somiet  concludes  thus — 


He  amirtetb  mo«t  tbitt  biilH  his  aiout, 
And  (net  for  no  oompwdDn." 

R.B.  S. 
"LiOHT  OF  LioHTB  "  (4'*  S.  vii.  399.)— J.H.B.'8 
critidsm  onNo.lZ7 in ^ftmuAjtcimtaad Modem, 
"  Light  of  Ligbti !  with  morning  shine," 

"  Ljght  of  IJghU !  when  fhlla  the  even," 
is  groundless.    He  says, — 

"  One  would  tbtok  the  compomr  of  thi  hymn  had  never 
•e«n  the  Nlcene  Creed  either  In  Greek  or  Englitb,  for  then 
Ml  iK  tmrit,  and  "  Light  of  Light,"  convejr  a  veiy 
dUferent  maaiiliig  from  that  given  by  tbe  plural  of  the 

Of  conim  they  do,  and  for  this  very  sufficient 
reason,  that  the  author  of  the  hymn  intended  hia 
WOTds  in  a  different  meaning.    The  Creed,  in  9mt 


1  0>e 
Trinity;  whereas  the  hymn  ia  addr 
Trini^  in  Unity.  The  author  may  be  supposed 
to  have  had  in  his  mind  Gen.  i.  16,  "AndOod 
made  two  great  ligfata,"  of  which  He  is  himaelf 
the  light ;  Psalm  ciiivi.  7,  [0  give  thanks]  "  to 
Him  that  made  great  ligbtsj  for  hie  mercy  en- 
dureth  for  ever  ;  and  Jamea  i.  17,  "Cometh 
down  from  the  Father  of  lights."  Me.  Aikobr 
aptly  asks  on  tbe  same  page, 

"  Qois  emendabit  ipaos  emendatorea  ?" 

E.V. 
"The  Wind  Hia  a  LAiiairA0E,"ETC."(4'''S.  vii. 
395.) — In  the  ahseuca  of  information  of  a  more 
definite  kind,  it  may  interest  Me.  Oartiixoit  to 
know  even  this  little,  that  the  lines  appeared  in  a 
magazine  more  than  forty  years  ago;  and  that 
the  first  four,  vividly  impressed  upon  my  boyish 
mind,  and  clinging  with  hur-Iike  tenacity  to 
memory,  ran  thus :  — 

"  The  wind  hu  s  langnsge  I  wonld  1  could  learn  ; 

Sometimea  'lis  aoolbing,  gjjd  aometimea  'tis  atom  i 

And  nmelimes  it  coinea  tike  a  low  sweet  aong, 

And  bU  thtn),i  grow  calm  is  tbe  strain  floats  along." 

Of  the  remuning  lines  I  have  too  imperfect  a 

remembrance  to  venture  attempting  to  give  them. 

I  do  not  remember  the  author's  name,  if  indeed 

it  was  appended  to  the  lines,  nor  the  magauoe  in 

which  they  appeared.  J.  L. 

Shbbewobt  (4*^  S.  vi.  502 ;  vii.  25,  161,  :244, 
332.)— I  hope  F.  C.  H.  (a  Murithian)  will  not 
think  me  hypercritical,  but  I  do  not  fancy  the 
Arabit  ItaHma  would  be  used  in  salads,  even  by 

Spates.  Was  bis  plant  the  Cardamine  hirnOaf 
y  own  notion  is,  that  the  plant  we  call  Ame- 
rican cress  {Barbarea  prxotx),  may  have  been 
the  sheerwort  of  old  writers,  but  I  have  no  proof 
of  this.  Arabit  Italtima  was  certainly  never  cul- 
tivated, and  I  find  sheerwort  in  a  catalogue  of 
"sallad  herbs"  dated  1688.  In  my  very  numer- 
ous lists  I  have  no  plant  so  called,  except  Alter 
Tripolium.  Could  F,  C,  H.  send  me  a  scrap  of  hia 
plant  P  James  Bsittek. 

Royal  Herbarium,  Kew. 

Tbetebis'  "Oexib  Hxbball"  {V  8.  vii.  162, 
18,  333.)— H.  C.  does  not  quote  Parkinson's 
Index  correctly,  or  he  would  see  that  his  "Son- 
chus"  and  "Asparagus,"  althoush  in  the  same 
line,  have  separate  references,  ana  are  quite  dif- 
ferent things.  My  copy  reads:  "Rdatitim  Itporia, 
i.  Smtchut  iavit  vulgaru,  807.  Camlpiito,  i.  Atpa- 
ragm  vuigarit " — which  is  indexed  in  its  pUce 
under  A.  There  is  no  doubt  that  our  sowtnistlfl 
is  the  "hare's  palace"  of  most  authors;  hut  it 
does  not  seem  to  oe  that  of  Treveris. 

I  subjoin  my  address,  and  shall  be  very  glad  to  ,  <^ 
correnfond  with  H.  0.    I  suspect  we  shul  find 
that  the  Ortu*  Smitatit  was  the  source  from  wbidi 


464 


NOTES  AND  QUERIBS. 


[i^SuTH-MiTil.TL 


both  the   CfreU  HaiaB  ud  Ormi  Btrbitr  wen 
conqnled.    H;  edition  (1S26)  has  cnta. 

Jakes  Bbittxii,  F.L.3. 
Bojvl  HetbarimB,  Seir. 

Hbkobiax  Vebsu  OS  thx  NimsB  or  Dats 
nr  THE  MoBTHS  (V^  S.  viL  S86.)— -It  may  interest 
Hk.  Loms  to  nave  hia  attention  directed  to 
Brae'a  edition  erf  Ghaocer's  TrtatUe  on  the  Adnt- 
iiAe,  published  last  Tear,  wherein  he  will  find  at 
p.  36  the  fallowing  note :  — 

"  It  u  weitbf  of  nmark  that  Sterina  here  lunrti,  bj 
"UKj  of  illuMntlne  the  text,  tboM  welt-known  liwa: 
■TbirtlBduabathSepteisbei/&c  Adding >Lo, vena* of 
the  nomber  of  tbs  dsis  in  70  Salender.'  " 

In  his  introduction  to  tlie  Treatue  Ur.  Brae 
conclusivelj  shows  th&t  the  MS.  of  SteTins,  here 
■poken  of,  must  h&ve  been  written  about  the  year 
1665.  So  that  here  are  the  verses,  not  onlj  at  a 
much  earlier  date  than  even  Mb.  Lottie  haa  dis- 
covered, but,  to  judge  bom  the  one  line  quoted, 
a  version  of  them  much  nearer  to  that  we  are 
habitnated  to  at  the  present  day.  J.  F. 

Tee  Oldest  Iinrs  n  EiraL&im  {V'  S.  vi.  S06; 
viL  2S7,  3S4.) — The  leg^end  cnrrent  in  the  neigh- 
bonrhood  is  that,  in  one  of  the  chambers  of  the 
aadent  inn  at  Norton  St.  Philips,  Somerset,  the 
Duke  of  Uonmouth  slept  the  night  before  the 
battle  oi  S«dgemooi.  Should  any  of  your  leaden 
widi  for  a  photograph  of  this  inn,  I  can  supply 
them,  and  the  proceeds  will  be  given  to  a  usefid 
charity.  Ella. 

Bath. 

Thb  PHtBtnx  Thboitb  :  Btboit  (4*  S.  vii.  162, 
368, 401.)— What  nonsd  has  P.  P.  for  euppocuiR 
that  in  the  verae  he  has  qnoted  Byron  intended 
any  reference  to  the  ph<emx  F    To  me  the  mean- 


there  was  still  one  fountain  springing,  one  tree, 
one  bird  mnging — these  all  typifpng  his  mster 
Angnsta,  to  whom  the  lines  were  addressed. 

G.  J.  Db  Weldb. 

English  VaKSiricAnoK  (4"'  S.  vii.  890.)  — 
The  most  copious  rules  and  instructions  for  English 
vermfication  will  be  found  in  the  Art  of  EngUth 
Poetry,  by  Bycehe,  first  published  in  170S.  It 
treats  of  the  structure  of  English  verses,  of  their 
several  kinds,  and  of  the  due  observation  of  accent 
•nd  pause ;  and  contains  rtdes  condudng  to  the 
beau^  of  oui  veisification.  It  has  chapters  on 
elisions  and  rhyme,  and  a  dictionary  of  rhymes, 
followed  by  a  very  ample  collection  of  passages 
from  the  best  Ekiglieli  poets,  vritb  tbe  subjects 
arranged  in  alpbabetical  order.  F.  C.  H. 

BoaXNiLBT  USED  AT  FVUBBALB  (4*  S,  viL  V/M, 
34S.)— I  remember,  manv  years  sf^,  being  once 
at  a  foneral  in  North  Lancashire  of  a  distin- 
gnished  officer  In  the  Older  of  Odd  Fellows,  when, 
a  little  before  the  procesraon  moved  &om  the 


■e,  a  basket  cenfauwing  losemvy  was  tanigfat 
from  which  each  guest  took  k  ^>rigi  carried 
it  with  him  to  the  graven  and  deposited  it  on 
the  coffin. 

The  custom  of  uring  roeemaiy  at  fdnerala  is 

thus  explmnedby  WhMtlyo»  Oommom  iVajMr.' — 

-1 

band  t  ■prig  otn 
taken  its  rise  from  ■  practice  aiiniiK  tbe  hMrtuwi,  of  ■ 
quite dlffiwiat li^ort.  For  tbey.hsvihig  no  thoMgUsofi 
niton  leMuractiiHi,  bet  balieviog  AM  the  bodies  of  tkm 
tbat  were  deed  woiild  fbr  ever  lie  in  the  grave,  nuule  osa 
of  cgprai  St  their  hmarsla ;  which  il  a  tree  tbat,  bosg 
OD«a  ODt,  never  reHroi,  but  diea  amy.  Bnt  CAnattass 
on  the  otfao-  aide,  havb     '  "     '      -   -    ■  >  — • — ■-— 


thia 


beotfao-alde,  havfaucbauer  hemes,  and  kaowioEtbis 
vcn  iMdy  of  their  Sriead,  which  thejr  are  now  goinc 
nnfy  to  commit  to  the  grsve,  shall  one  dij  ilM 
n  and  be  rcnnlted  to  hb  sonl,  laetriart  of  cfprai  dn- 
tribute  nmmary  to  the  conpany,  which  (being  tlw^ 
green  and  floariahiag  the  more  for  being  or<^  and  <i 
which  a  aprig  only  being  set  in  the  ground  will  sprnt 
op  immediatelf  and  branch  into  a  tree)  is  more  pnf 
to  ezpieaa  thia  oonfldenca  and  tnut." 

It  would  appear  that  the  e«riy  colonists  nt 
America  had  taken  with  Uiem  thu  old  enstom. 
Dr.  Coie,  the  Kshop  of  New  York,  alJudta  to 
the  praotioe  in  his  beautiful  poem,  Tht  ObrcA'i 
DttugXUr.  Although,  aa  he  aays  in  a  note,  he  lus 
token  a  quunt  licence  with  the  botanioal  nams  d 
the  floww,  roaemaiy  (.SosemonMSM) :  — 
'  Tben  rosea  pale  and  roia  mnrtM, 
She  eeattera  o'er  tbe  nuuble  dnat ; 


Gbobss  Edwamb,  a-b.  1645  (4*  S.  viL  388.)— 
Tbe  name  of  this  gentleman  appe&rs  as  cae  of^s 

twenty-two  yeomen  of  the  chamber  of  "the  ordi- 
nary of  the  Quoffli's  sde  which  have  their  allow- 
ance of  wages,  without  sny  meate  or  Booch  o( 
Coort,"  and  he,  as  well  as  each  of  his  ooUeagnM, 
recdved  I6J.  At.  M  per  annum  (Orduuact*  V"f 
Bot/al  BouMhoid,  p.  170).  This  information  « 
^ven  in  the  "  Ordmsnces  made  at  Elthsm  in  tbe 
iviith  year  of  King  Henry  Vin."  j  hot  whiJfl  tw' 
year  was  1626-6,  any  ^raon  who  will  read  »« 
lists  of  names  there  given  with  any  attento^ 
will  see  that  they  must  have  been  kept  conertod 
to  a  much  later  period :  for  they  contwn  UUes 
which  were  not  conferred  until  quite  the  close  J" 
the  king's  reign.  Toinstence  two;  "The  E»w 
of  Hertford,  Lord  Glroat  Chsmberlyn,"  sfterwsr^ 
the  Protector  Somerset,  was  created  earl  Oct  W' 
1637;  whUe  the  title  of  "The  Lorf  lisle,  i^ 
Admirall,"  dates  oidy  from  March  18,  l^-?!! 
mention  of  George  Edwards  occurs  in  the  ^  J 
Purse  Accounts  of  Henry  VIIL,  nor  in  the  Hot- 
land  or  Trevelyan  Papers.  H«Mwn«'"'"- 
BECKET-i  MuBSEEBBS  (4»  8.  viL  S3, 171. 18^ 
268,  896.)— One  of  the  Hugh  de  Morrilles»«; 
lioned  had  no  eon,  but  two  daughters  sod  «^ 


*>S.VIL  M*t27,T1.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


465 


bein — Adama,  married  to  Ricliard  de  Lucjr  and 
Thomas  de  Multon,  and  Joan,  wife  of  Richard  de 
0«nioii  of  Easez.  De  Qernon  was  pardoned  a 
deht  of  360  marks  owed  to  the  king  foi  the  in- 
heritance of  Hugh  de  Morrille,  -whose  daughtei 
he  had  married.    (Sot.  Fin.  IG  Joh.,  Feb.  1 J 

HsBHxnTBODK. 
The  Sohoolkaiisb  Abroad  m  STUrpoKS- 
8HIM  (4"  S.  Tii.  121, 180,  311, 374.)— MooRLAKD 
Lab  telle  of  the  gockling  of  a  "  boll-pnp  "  by  a 
pitman's  wife.  Such  uuraiDg  is  not  unique,  as  he 
seems  to  think.  Mrs.  Pioui,  somewhere  in  ber 
AutMofrmht/  ot  Zttten  (my  DOte  is  incomplete), 
speaks  of  the  suckling  of  lap-dogs  bj  human  wet- 
'  nurses  as  a  common  practice  at  Naples;  and  re- 
fers to  a  picture  abe  bas  seen  of  a  woman  sucklii^ 
a  cat.  JoHK  Addis. 

BnstiiiRloD,  DNir  Littlehunpun,  Siuau. 
Bkhop  MoBDBCil  Cart  (4"  S.  vii.  234,  S76.) 


Henry  Francis  Oair  married  Jane,  daughtei 
James  (not  John)  Ormsbj,  Esq.,  of  Sandymoc 
Beta  Xhiotin;  and  also  that  hie  mother  was  Hen- 


rietta, daughter  of  TheophiluB  Brocaa,  D.O.,  Dean 
of  Eillala.  His  son,  the  Rev.  Henry  Caiy,  M,A., 
of  Worcester  College,  Oztbrd  (not  mentitxied  in 
the  pedigree),  was  the  author  of  the  Mtmoir  to 
wbicD  I  referred,  and  in  which  may  be  found,  as 
one  might  expect,  many  biographical  details, 

Abhsa. 

WHT  dobs  a  KBWtT  BOEM  Child  ottP  (4*  S. 
TiL  211,  289,  394.)— If  the  quotation  made  by 
BIb.  Mobbis  (p.  374)  is  perfectly  reliable,  it  teniu 
to  throw  much  light  on  the  mature  (as  well  as 
on  the  infantile)  pronunciation  of  the  period.  We 
may  certainly  conclude  that  the  first  letter  of  the 
English  alphabet  was  then  pronounced  as  A  in 
man,  can,  &c. — a  fashion  which  is  still  retained  in 
some  old  places. 

There  is  perhaps  more  difficnltr  aboat  the  pn>- 
nnnciBtion  of  the  second  Towel  £.  It  is  by  Ms. 
MoBBIs's  Buthority  made  to  rhyme  with  the  Terh 
be,  sod  to  ^ve  the  tone  to  the  veir  ancient  desig- 
nation of  Em.  Perhaps  a  philosophical  accoucbetir 
or  obserrant  monthly  nurse  could  tell  ne  whether 
the  indment  07  of  a  young  lady  most  resembles 
a  shrill  £E  or  a  broader  AT  or  EH ;  bat  we  may 


We  have  no  reason  to  believe  that  the  verb  he 
has  always  been  pronounced  in  its  present  shrill 
oransigmflcant  way.  In  modem  poetry  it  seldom 
or  never  forms  the  final  syllable  of  heroic  lines,  as 
it  did  often  in  that  of  Spenser.  And  the  name 
Sue  was  ncobably  in  old  tiines  a  word  of  two  syl- 
laUes,  of  whicta  tlie  first  ruembted  the  initial 
KKmd  in  Svelioe  or  Erangeline  or  Effie  Deans. 

"Stmt  (Maliom  aSeet  tke  kiatoiy  of  languages 


very  intimately  in  their  progress  and  decay.  We 
require,  however,  a  proper  scale  of  sounds  even  to 
discourse  of  them.  Might  I  again  suggest  the 
natural  scale  offered  (4*'  S.  v.  G46)  as  a  basis  for 
Huch  speculations,  and  which  I  have  ventured  to 
repeat  here. 


S™  JOHU  POWBLL  (l",  3^,  4'»  S.  pamm.')— 
When  found  net,  make  a  note  of  it.  I  have  be- 
fore me  the  Siogn^hicid  Dictionary  0/  Eminait 
Wdckmen,  by  the  Rev.  Robert  Williams,  M.A. 
fLondon,  Longmans,  185S),  in  which  I  cannot 
find  the  name  of  this  upright  judge  and  Welsh- 

I  see,  however,  that  your  first  qaeiy  was  pnb- 
lished  on  March  12, 18G3,  and  I  find  in  the  Clergy 
Lid  that  the  reverend  author  of  the  dictionary  is 
still  living ;  therefore  I  venture  to  hope  tbat  he 
has  already  made  a  note  of  the  judge's  name,  to 
grace  some  pages  of  addenda  to  Ms  original  work. 
Gw).  E.  Eebkb. 
8AKPLBHa(4"'aTi.500;  vii.  21, 126, 220, 278, 
331.)  —  About  fifty  years  ago  I  was  shown  a  kind 
of  sampler  at  Bacton,  Herefordshire^  in  the  church 
there,  of  exquisite  work,  but  unfor^ately  I  took 
no  note  of  it.  I  should  he  very  much  pleased  if 
any  lady  or  gentleman  in  that  Deighbourhood 
would  describe  it,  1  think  I  was  told  that  it  was 
worked  bv  Blanche  Parry,  chief  (rantlewoman  to 
Queen  E^zabetb,  and  who  died  16D0.  Feriupa 
an  older  sampler  than  this  does  not  exist 

F.  C.  P. 
Two  Pasbasbb  ih  "  TmoH  or  Athkss  "  (4""  S. 
■ri.  43,  164,  269,  86S,  446;  vii.  360.)— Pbofissoe 
Elze  will,  I  trust,  pardon  my  pointing  out  that 
the  question  is  not  whether  the  word  muck  might 
be  used  for  neeleae  treasure,  but  whether  Shak- 
speare  lias  used  that  word  in  the  passa^  above 
refeired  to,  from  Act  IV,  Sc.  3.  The  received  text 
follows  the  first  folio;  Hkbs  Elzb  euggeetfl  a 
speculative  emendation.  Now  I  do  protest  most 
earoeetly  against  all  such  merely  speculative 
emendations.  Show  a  fault  in  the  text,  and  many, 
perhaps  too  many,  are  ready  to  oome  forward  and 
correct  it — and  welcome.  But  here  is  no  &tult, 
for  the  text  reads  as  grammatically  correct  If, 
as  the  HxBX  suggests,  a  bulty  compositor  had 
placed  mttcA  when  Shakspeare  wrote  muck,  which 
t  do  not  admit,  vre  have  this  further  difficult  of 
the  additional  subetitutiixk  of  meat  for  me  to  con- 
tend wiUi.  Such  dmiUe  inadverteBce,  thus  eon- 
j<uned,  is  agaiPBt  all  we  know  of  the  doctrine  of 
chances.  W«  are  dealing  with  s  qnsation  of  pro- 
babilities only,  and  the  odds  ar»  against  the  muet.  [ , 
tkeorr.  It  duq-  be  said  that  the  printer  bann^ >^ '  ^ 
blundered  over  the  word  muck  inadnrtaDt^,  haa 
substitutad  meat  for  m*  itngoMj,  to  m^  a 


466 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


false  sense.  It  won't  do;  and  for  the  following 
reaaoDB:  —  1.  A  compoaibir,  having  made  a  slip 
inadoerientiy,  would,  as  a  matter  of  course,  pftss  it 
unnoticed.  2.  If  noticed  b;  compositor,  reader,  or 
editor,  there  waa  the  "  copy''  to  refer  to,  by  which 
meanB  the  original  error  could  be  corrected,  in- 
stead  of  needlessly  piling  PeUon  upon  Oasa  by 
mfUfing  El  second. 
Sho^Kspeare  should  be  respected  in  Ms  grare : 

**  Good  ftsod,  fbr  Jcsna'  wks  forbeare," 
last  we  fall  under  the  consequent  ban — 

"...  cant  be  be  j'  mom  my  bonw." 

A.H. 

Thb  Accidxsis  CoKPBHSATioH  Bill  (4''  S.  viL 
280,  878.)— As  a  fellow- sufferer  throuah  Lord 
-   ,/    ...       .  .    ,       .  t"      ,  „ 


what 


s  fully 


Campbells  shortcomings  as  a  ji 
sympathise  with  Clabbt.  He  is, 
taken  in  his  censure' of  the  biiUcuba  at  which 
Lo&s  Ltheltoh  claims  the  parentage.  The  act 
was  a  most  just  one,  though  extravagant  damages 
have,  no  doubt,  been  recovered  under  it.  But  Uie 
cases  of  fraud  upon  companies  to  which  Cla&bt 
refers,  and  which  are  no  doubt  rife  enough,  are 
connected  with  actions  brought  at  common  law 
by  persons  who  allege  themselves  t«  be  injured, 
and  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  statute  in 
question.  C.  G.  Phowkti. 

Oanick  Clab. 

In  such  statements  as  tiiat  at  a  rulway  accident 
600  peiBona  were  in  the  train,  and  that  the  com- 
pany compensated  600,  exact  are  preferable  to 
round  numbers.  Will  Clarbt  oblige  me  with 
them,  and  also  the  authority  on  whi(±  he  relies  P 
As  no  one  was  killed  at  the  accident  which  cost 
the  Brighton  Ealway  74,000t,  Lord  Campbell's 
act  inflicted  no  hardship  in  that  case. 

Bulwav  companies  are  subject  to  frauds  by 
persons  wno  pretend  to  have  been  injured.  Still 
more  so  are  insurance  offices  by  those  who  set 
their  houses  on  Are,  and  I  believe  all  great  estab- 
lishments are  much  cheated,  agiunst  which  there 
is  no  protection  but  vigilance.  I  have  been  pre- 
sent at  many  trials,  and  do  not  think  that  the 
tendency  of  juries  is  to  ^ve  excessive  damages  in 
railway  cases.  On  the  contrary,  they  are  disposed 
to  take  too  pecuniary  a  view,  and  calculate  what 
a  man  has  lost  by  the  interruption  of  bunnesa  and 
the  doctor's  bills,  and  what  he  is  disqualified  from 
earning  by  temporary  or  permanent  injuries — 
leaving  personal  soffetinga  almost  out  of  their 
conuderation. 

I  was  a  rather  close  obserrer  of  Lord  Camp- 
bell's career  &om  1838  to  his  death,  and  espe- 
ciallv  ao  of  his  conduct  on  the  bench,  and  I  wish 
to  oner  my  opinion,  in  which  I  believe  nearly  the 
whole  profesuon  will  concnr,  that  he  was  a  ve^ 
great  lavryer,  and  at  mii  print  an  endneotly  Ub 
•nd  patient  jud^. 

I  UTS  nathing   to  ny  in  Lord  Osmpbdl'i 


a  biographer  or  a  legislator.     He  knew 

good,  and  unscrupulously  appropriated 
I  believe  Loan  Ltttkltoh's  "-■"  '-  '"  **- 


r  translation  fzom 


be  the 

most  valuable  of  all  his  appropriatious,  and  one 
which  would  have  done  honour  to  both  bad  bia 

jiity  allowed  him  to  say  where  he  got  it 

Ah  InxER  Tekplas. 

Capeicioits  Wkat  (4">  S.  vii.  269,  372.)— 
Perhaps  some  of  your  readers  may  not  be  sorry  to 
become  acquwnted  with  the  French  sonnet  of 
which  the  one  you  have  reprinted,  at  p.  372  oi 
the  present  volume  of  "N.  &  Q.,"  is  evidently  ft 
translation.  It  is  posnble  that  the  French  Jai 
(feipril  maybe  an  imitation  o"  *~n"i"ti"n  fmm 
the  Spanish :  — 

"  Doris,  qoJ  sait  qn'aii 

Qastom  fW*.  (crand  Dieal  le  moyen  de  lea  fain  ? 

En  voil^  cep«ndsat  i^i  quatie  de  faits. 
"  Je  ne  poovau  cl'sbord  trouver  de  rime  ;  msit 

£□  riluQt  on  appiend  ii  n  liier  d'affsire. 

Pourauivoiu ;  lea  quAtrains  ne  m'AonDMont  gntr^ 

Si  du  premier  tercet  je  pnis  fiire  lea  £ni«. 
>•  JecommeacesabiSBrd,  et  sijenem'abnse, 

Je  n'ai  pu  commence  suis  I'avcn  de  ma  most ; 

Foiaqa'en  si  pen  de  temps  ja  m'en  tin  si  net. 
"  J'anteme  le  second,  et  ma  joia  est  eitrSme ; 

Car  da  veneomnumd^jacbive  le  trailim*; 

Comptex  (111  aont  qoatone,  at  voili  le  •ODoet.'' 

Gnemsey. 

W.  D.  B.  asks  who  was  thus  indicated  in  a  cer- 
tain sonnet  which  he  imperfectly  remembers.  In 
reply,  E.  A.  D.  (p.  372),  after  ootidng  that  the 
wT* of  Dodsley's  CoUection  becomes  "  Wraj"' in 


f  Dodsley' _-.  . 

Elegant  .Bj^rac**,  suggesU  that  "  Capricious  Wray 
Daniel  Wray,  the  archsologist." 


may  have  been  I 

H.  P.  D.  ia  more  positive ,  -.u~j=vp".-„  — 
was  Dtmiel  Wray,  deputy-teller  of  the  Exchequer 
from  1745  to  1782."  Surely  W."  (whether 
"  Wray  "  or  not)  was  a  lady.  Men  do  not  write 
Mrs  de  »ociM  of  this  kind  to  one  another.  To 
play  with  the  caprice  of  a  pretty  woman,  and 
write  heraaixinet,  is  natoral  enough;  bot  on* 
could  not  flirt  with  a  deputy-teller  of  the  Ex- 
chequer. 

The  name  Wray  is  not  uncommon,  and  no 
doubt  there  have  been  several  ladies  of  that  name 
quite  worthy  of  a  sonnet.  K  A.  D.  quotes  from 
a  copy  of  Dodsley's  CoUection,  dated  1775.  My 
copy  of  vol.  ii.  is  the  third  edition,  published  in 
1751.  When  was  the  sonnet  first  printed?  In 
the  Ajumal  RegiOtr  for  1770  I  find  recorded  the 
death  of  the  "relict  of  Sir  John  Wray,  Bart" 
Wonld  the  sonnet  fit  barP  Jatdsk. 

M*AinN«  OF  "FoB"(4*S.TiL96,216,861.) 
My  indistinct  trriring  has  l«d  your  printer  into  an 
error  in  my  remarks  OD  the  etymology  ^  fogger. 
The  common  explanation  of  the  word  which  •( 
gus  an  sore  to  ad^  ii^  that  it  is  a  o~~™*^' 


Itt&TII.  Kat!7,7I.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


foddtrvr  (not  -^oddertf),  tst  tli«  mao  vrbo  foddera 
the  cattle.  But  this  diuif^  of  two  g»  into  two  d» 
-will  hardly  do.  Foggtr  is^  I  do  not  doabt,  a 
regular  denvative  from  fog,  in  the  senee  attributed 
by  jour  correspondent  to  the  latter  word. 

W.  (1.) 
Thb  SoirtM  AND  HI8  Sow  (A*  3.  vfi.  361.) — 
It  is  acarcely  correct  to  eaj  that  theae  Unes  have 
been  forgotten.  They  haTB  been  pre»or*od  by 
C.  K.  Sbarpe  in  oue  of  his  collections  (reprinted 
in  Four  Books  of  Choict  Old  Bailadi,  p.  36.  Ste- 
Tenaon,£din.  1668);  and  in  an  Edinburgh  journal 
of  date  Nov.  14,  1868,  a  CDirespoudeut  inquires 
after  the  remuning  verses  not  jiet  recovered, 
raving  at  the  same  time  tbe  stanza  preceding 
those  quoted  by  G. : — 

"  Tbere  wu  a  lontar  and  a  sew. 
Ad'  for  her  bine  he  kiawd  her  man, 

Sharpe's  copy  is  more  exactly  like  the  vendon  I 
have  heard  in  Forfarshire.  "  Tantara,  tantam '' 
was  a  favourite  burden  at  the  beginniuK  of  the 
seventeenth  century.  W.  F.  (2.) 

Sooth  Hook,  Silmaniock. 

Thb  Chbvboit  (4*  S.  viL  408.) — S.  P.  asks  a 
very  odd  question.  I  think  I  may  venture  to 
poeitively  assert  that  no  "heraldic  authority" 
exists  forthe belief  in  question.  It  is  simply  ab- 
surd. H.  S.  O. 

Is  the  belief  such  as  S.  P.  states  it  to  be  F  I 
had  always  understood  that  tbe  cockle  shells  or 
palmers'  driaking-cups,  such  aa  «ipear  on  tbe 
arms  of  the  Bernards,  Villiers,  and  RusseUs,  were 
the  Crusaders'  emblems. 

Heset  F.  PoHSOHBr. 

HiEVBT  OE  Hrhrbi  (4*  S.  vii.  142.)— The 
Kbie  concordance  in  my  poeseeaion  is  signed 
"  Thine  in  the  I^rd,  Hubert  F.  Htrry,"  as  exa- 
mined under  magnified  power. 

Oboksb  Wadswosih. 

804,  Oxford  Slrtet,  UaDcheUer. 

The  "  Plain  Dealrk  "  (4'>  8.  vii.  301.)— It  is 
nngulor  that  Kb.  Fbibwzll  should  hsve  ascribed 
the  authorship  of  the  Flam  Dtaler  to  Congreve, 
and  that  O.  F.  S.  E.  (p.  376)  should  have  indoned 
that  opinion.  It  is  of  course  by  William  Wycher- 
ley.  R  J.  G. 

Sir  Gzobob  Moorb  (4'"  8.  vii.  76.)— He  was  a 
baronet  See  Burke's  Extinct  Baronefagt  under 
"  Moor,  of  Mayd's  Morton."  In  Lipscombe's 
SUtory  of  BuckitighaniiAire,  vol.  iii.  p.  41,  be  is 
mentioned  as  an  intimate  friend  of  Titus  Dates, 
and  his  coat  of  arms  ia  givenBs"0nafesa3flenrs- 
de-Iys  between  3  mullets." 

J.  £.  Jacesoh,  Hon.  Canon  of  Bristol. 

Leigh  Delamere,  ChippcDhim. 


QoESK  (4"  a  vii  S28,  379.)  — In  a  small 
volume  on  tbe  Laiufuagt  of  Flower*,  published  by 
James  Williams,  London,  1844,  I  find  tmgtr  aa 
the  emblematical  meaning  attached  to  "  whio," 
which  is  synonymous  with  gone.  This  ia  cer- 
tainly very  appropriate,  and  will,  I  hope,  be  satia- 
&ctory  to  the  fair  inquirer.  J,  Mk. 


SBliiziflaKtaut. 

BOTES  ON  BOOKS.  ETC. 

A   Mtmmr  of  Daniel  Maclitt,  R.A.     By   W.  Jnatin 

O'Driicall,  H.R.I.A.,  Bairialer-al-LaiT.     (Lougmuia.) 

Mr.  O'DriMoll  bai  the  flrat  eetential  qnilifiutjon  for  ■ 

biograpber— a  thorough  admiiation  of  tbe  subject  of  his 

laboais;  he  bas,  too,  tbe  advantage  of  bavicg  knowu 

HiclUe  from  hia  boyhood  to  bis  grave,  bat  as  bemodeetly 

coafesss*,  be  hu  b«en   long  o  Dacca  stomed  to  literary 

work,  while  it  ia  obviqiu  he  doea  not  possess  tbst  know- 

ledpe  of  art,  without  which  nomso  can  possibly  prodnoe  a 

Mtisrai;tiH7  lire  of  a  great  artist.    As  ■  mere  record  of 

the  leading  incidents  in  tbe  artist's  uneventful  life — a  lifo 

marked  alike  by  an  honourable  spirit  of  indepeDdenca 


if  the  o 


□  to  e 


ch  be  produced  tbe  noble  works 
whleh  eatabliahed  hta  reputation,  tbe  work  is  not  without 
preaent  Interest  B7  far  the  most  valnable  portion  oF 
the  book  consists  of  Madise's  letters  to  his  Iriend,  Mr. 
John  Forster,  which  (bat  gCDtlemaD  most  liberally  placed 
at  Ht.  O'Drlscoll'i  service.  These,  which  are  ^nial  and 
pleasant,  with  an  admirabls  letter  fttim  the  Prince  Con- 
•ort,  give  lift  (o  the  book,  and  increase  the  value  which  it 
will  nnqueationablr  be  found  to  possess  for  the  future 
biographer  of  Daniel  Madise. 

Out  BaOa  atid  Wiilt.  Tht  Mineral  Woltrt  of  Oa 
Brilah  IttaaJt,  wilk  a  Litt  of  Bta-Bathmg  Plactt.  Bg 
John  UacPherson,  H.D.,  Tnapectur-General  of  Hoa- 
pitaU,  H.H.  Bengal  Aimr  (Ketired),  die  (HacmU- 
lan). 

This  well-Umed  little  volume  gives  tbe  resnlUoftbe 
anther's  visits  to  tbe  health  resorts  of  Great  Britain  and 
Ireland,  made  tea  the  purpose  of  comparing  tbem  with 
all  the  chief  ftoiei^n  ones;  and  it  forma  thenfore  not  onlv 
a  volume  of  practical  use  to  those  who  for  reasons  of  their 
own  prefer  or  are  compelled,  to  avail  tbemselies  of  oar 

Ering  those  resources  with  the  Batlit  atd  WdU  of 
tmpt  as  descfibed  in  Dr.  Macpherson's  (itrmer  work  so 
entitled.  The  repntation  which  that  little  work  enjoy* 
as  a  moat  nseftil  and  discriminating  guide,  wit],  we  have 
no  donbt,  be  shared  by  the  intelligent  little  volume  be- 

B00K8  SBOEiVBD.— We  must  content  ourselves,  for 
obvions  TeasonB,wjtb  recording  the  appearance  itftbe  Ibl- 
lowing: — Fi^tdBrKinAeChnreh  of  England.  Six  Semma 
tuggaUd  by  tfit  Kby«y  Jadgrtnt.  By  Iht  Rev.  Stopford 
A.Brooke.  (Henry  S.  Kiag).~TlitJuritdictionandjaii- 
•Mx  of  the  Anglicim  EpiKnpatt.  By  the  Rev.  T.  J.  Bailey, 
B.A.  (Parker).— Tie  Englith  Bible,  and  our  Duly  icilh 
regard  to  it.  A  Flea  for  Brvition.  £y  Thomas  Kin  gam  ill 
Abbott,  M.A.  (Hodge^  Foster,  &  Co.).— 4  Calalnqut 
^ Anglo-Saxon,  and  Micr  Antigtiilia.lMgiiealhtd  by  Wil- 
liam  Gihbi,  Eiq.,  to  tht  South  Seniington  Muietm.  Com- 
mild  by  CsRoach  Smith,  F.^A.  (Chapman  &  Hall.)— 
The  antboritJea  of  South  Kenrington  deserve  ciedit  fbr 
having  secured  the  services  of  Mr.  Boich  Smith  to  torn 
to  goad  account  Mr.  Gtbbs's  patriotic  beqaest 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»S.TILJUt»,71. 


A  Gbahd  Dmu.  BKvnw,  ornnusd  brtbe  Sodetj 
of  Arti,  of  foDi-  thoDMud  bojii,  with  tbeir  Siuiii,  will  tw 
bald  by  Hii  Eo;al  Hlghneu  Priooe  Artfaar  in  tlie  Bof  *1 
Hortjcnltaral  Gurdeiu  on  Wednod*}-,  Jaaa  14.  Admit- 
tance to  tbe  Gardens  only,  one  shilling.  A  mnaical 
perfDnnance  bj  the  boya  in  the  Rojol  Albert  Hall  will 
take  plain  after  tlie  RsTiew.  Snbacriplioiia  in  aid  or  tbe 
coat  of  oanveying  the  bays  by  railway,  and  proTidijiig 
,them  with  relieahmeal^  will  be  recdred  by  tbe  " 
of  the  Society  of  Arta. 

A  BoMUKLLBS  of  tbe  old  >chaal.  Oeorgs  Hay,  died  in 
the  CbarterhoDse  dd  May  IS,  aged  rixty-eigbL  White 
in  buaiiicea,  in  1S45,  he  wrote  aod  poblianed  ■  d«cri|  ' ' 
Hiatoryaf  tbe  Town  of  Evealiani,  where  he  resided, 
enbeeqaeiitly  went  to  America ;  bat  not  being  mone 
he  returned,  end,  like  loaay  othere,  foond  a  reating--place 
in  the  house  founded  by  Thomai  Satton. 

"Who  was  Will,  my  Lard  of  Lafccater's  jesting 
Player?  "  was  a  qaeatloD  raised  bv  the  late  Mr.  Smce, 
who  inclined  to  the  opinion  that  Will  Kemp  was  the 
raan.  Acoordiag  to  The  AAautum,  Mr.  Halliwell  has 
discovered  in  the  privato  account-book  of  tbe  Earl  of 
Leicester,  preserred  in  the  Longbridge  Ci^ection  in 
Warwiukihire,  oonfinnatlon  of  the  accniacy  of  Mr.  Bmce'a 
judgment.  Perhaps  further  reeearchee  may  show  tbat 
tbe  gageeelion,  that  Shakespeare  also  served  with  Leices- 
ter in  the  Low  Countries,  is  equally  well  founded. 

Mr.  J.  H.  UEoaaLS,  a  Dutch  gentleman,  wdl  known 
for  bis  acquaintance  with  early  prinled  books,  is  engaged 
in  malunB  a  tranaladoD  into  English  of  Dr.  Van  dar 
Linde's  work,  entitled  "  De  UaarleiDscbe  CasCcr-L(genda,'> 

OuvEB  Cboxwell's  Hodbs. — WoT^men  have  been 
employed  to  demolish  the  fine  old  Urge  red-briok  man- 
aiou  on  Brixton  Bise,  which,  according  to  repute,  was 
once  occupied  by  Oliver  CromwelL  ITiiB  is  the  last  ape- 
cimen  in  the  locality.  The  property  has  been  punhaied 
by  tbe  London  Tramway  Company. 

SOBBOBimoNa  are  invited  by  Mrears.  Berelay 
Brothers  for  20,000  fully  paid-up  aharea  in  the  Sonth 
Annra  Silver  Mining  Company,  the  price  of  iaeue  to  the 
inveeUng  public  bebig  IW.  per  share,  payable  br  iattal- 
roents,exteDdingover  tothe  1st  August  next.  Themlne 
is  BitDated  io  the  Nevada  district,  and  has  been  worlied 
with  very  aatisfactoiT  resnlts,  one  dividend  of  20  per  cent 
having  been  paid  in  Pebnuuy  last,  while  a  farther  quar- 
terly dividend  at  the  same  rate  has  just  been  announced 
payable  on  the  Ist  proximo.  Tlioe  shares  now  offned 
were  lately  owned  by  the  vendors  of  the  mine,  who 


cepted  them  in  part  paymeDt  of  tbe  purchase  mooev. 
One  salislhctory  nature  In  the  terms  of  the  circolar  pnb- 
lisbed  is,  that  applicants  will  paitidpate  in  the  dividend 


V  he  paid  at  tbe  bagluning  of  next  month. 


fiolittt  td  ^atntpnffitjtbt. 

Q.  O.  W.—  tFe  caimil  Iraee  my  mck  artide  ;  jmrfuqa 
th<  matter  axis  a^rodnetd  vwidtxtidljt  ailo  a  pmerim  lomt 
other  tithjtct,  Tlitrt  AoM  (cea  w  onuiunu  from  any  n- 
print:     Did  Hat  mriltr  n^  hU  mmu  t 

T.  E.  Q.—  WTiHl  uihiUlle  oftkt  book  1 

H.  S.  B.— 5i>  Si^k  SmU/ttm,  k>Ao  Aail  manitd  a 
dam^lsr  ofUa  Dot*  of  Somcrnt,  wcceMU  Aia  fathtr-m- 
^aw  (umdtr  a  Ipeeiaf  Rmitatioii  in  tlkt  paltat)  at  Ainm 
Warliwtrth  aid  Karl  of  SorOiumliabmi.  A  nu  wK 
t— ctfed  (eooius  Ac  wm  ajiAjmnot. 

F.  T.— Ois''J{iK{iuaAaatr,"se(  •■  M.  &  Q.'*  8^  S.  T 
W,64,l!6. 


I.  H.  (Tralee,)— Jflnrn  rtptal  the  guy. 

^  W.— TV*  artieUt  on  Imryimg  atat  as  a 

<tartd  ■  "  fJ.  i  Q,"  l-  S-  vi.  846,  B«0. 

'.  (Lnekpow.)— (M  korm-laiigk,  or  luamh^  m 


nU  find  of  p.  448  UW  UuA«W  Hhlw- 
•oriroilGSe. 

Wt  do  net  naumbtr  to  hat 

EBRaTDH.— 4>k  S,  vii.  p.  433,  ooL  line  84,  <««  "oC 


PABTBISGE    A5S    GOOFZS. 

UANUFACTDSINO  STATI0HEK3. 
19S,  Fleet  SUMt  (Comer  of  Chanwy  Lane). 
CaSBUGB  PAID  TO  TSl  OOUHTST  ON  OKDXBl 


BOTE  PAPKB-CreMaet  BIdi.1i„  i>..  :>..  and  ai.  pnnui. 
BKTKLOFEB.Cnail  gr  BIh.  U.  M ..  b.  (d. .  and  >•.  UL  par  1,BH. 
TEMPLE  BirTELOPB.sltliB<lllIiinnPT>D,II.pBUI>- 


BI.aCE-BOU>IBED  DOTE.  li.  ud  <i. 
BLACK-BOBDERED  BH  V  ELDFEB.  li. 


pBAND  PUMP  ROOM  HOTEL,  BATH.opwnM 


"OLD  ENQLI8H"  FURNITURE. 


COIJ.IKBOK  snd  lACE  (late  Herring). 
CABI17BT  KAKBBS, 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  E.C.    EsUblislwd  1782, 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANQINQ8. 


COJ^LOSBOTS  and  X.OCS  Oate  Herring), 
DEOOBATOBS, 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  LONDON.  Established  ITH. 


i  POMPEIAS  DEC0EATI0M8. 
ROBERT  HORNE, 

HOUBE  DEOORATOB  and  PAPER-HAIKlDro 
"■-"-ACTUREE. 

TTBCH  8TBEET,  T 

^^  -le 


4'*8.TU.  Ji™s3,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


LOKDOlf,  BATVRDAT,  JUIfS  S,  IB 


C0STEHT8.— N*  179. 

KOm  I  —  The  Amu  of  Ciiipidua.  BhaJieiimm'i  or  Mu- 
MoultMt — hot!  uid  Fictfoiu  *baut  tbe  Diika  or  Buck- 
iiwhun's  Hotber,  A.— Uemorr.  471  — Boecoe's"  Lire  of 
WUiam  Soteoe  "  —  GloutMBtentaIra  Polk  Lon  —  "  Vt&ij. 
or  Pe«y,0'H»tftrti"  — "Thn  Iriah  Coloun  foUad,"  bj 
FitbarF.  Wilib  — ''  Hibarnis  ipui  Hlbarokirsa  "  --  Popu- 
■      "  ■■    *    if  ObierrtDB  BcllpMS  —  Prorerb  —  Hood's 


QUBRI88:  — AQOdTmaui— Whit  iikBuTOwr—Brodcriok 
PMDlly  —Loiter  ot  Oliver  Cromwail  —  St.  Ednrd  tbe 
ConrHUn-  udtbaBlDg  — Etching!  — Ford  Abb^  tele— 
Ancient  Oreek  and  BiHnut  Utcnlnre— Leuth  of  Bur 
in  Hen  and  Women-Our  Udf  or  Holy weD  —  MiUtur 
Cbetron  -'  "The  New  MoQtlilj  "  —  North«nipton«hJrB 


Httl'g  Picture  or  Lidy  Green BleoTEfl  — 
re;  Chuicbea.  ISSB  —  "StaSe  Family,  47' 


noiV"  ft.  —  Dteemnn  —  Chignon* 

—  Olbbon- OldPamiUes:  Enicbti  (rf^Cbu-Iu  I., Itao — 
Bt.  Tborai*  o(  VTltanorm  — EtjnnlogT  of  "  Wsrd"  u  a 
Tnwina]  NiDM- The  Hemor;  of  Smella  —A  Crooiwell 
Note  —  Hccao — Var  Hedala  —  "  In  tba  8U»w  "  —  '•  The 
Sod  never  Sel^'  Ac  — Charm*  for  Agna  —  Mezntiuto 
Print!  —  The  white  Tower  of  London  —  Bnnuuna  Of 
Official!— H«nldlc —eatea,  lale  of  Han,  Ac  tfl. 
Hntw  on  Book*.  Ab. 


fialnf. 

THE  ABMS  OF  CBI3PINUS,  SHAEESFEARS'S 
ORMAK3T0N-S? 
Mb.  T.  SELBBr'B  conununicAtioQ  at  p.  118  has 
reminded  ma  of  a  note  I  commeDced  eome  six 
moQtlis  ago.  That  Criapinus  m  the  Poetader  is 
Muaton  UDdkguisad,  or  in  the  flimsiest  of  dis- 
guises, is  as  certain  a«  that  Capt.  Thece  isstut- 
teiing  Capt  Hennam,  Demetrius  the  dremer  of 
plajB  Decker,  and  the  Horace  of  the  Satiro-Madix, 
ID  make,  drees,  get  up,  and  in  all  his  pec  iilian ties, 
Ben  JonfOQ  himself.  Decker,  in  his  retort,  ac- 
cepted the  oamea  of  Demetrius  and  Crispinus  both 
for  himself  and  Maratoa,  and  put  their  likenesses 
agun  on  the  stage.    But  the  author  of  the  article 


"BeD  JtHiBcai's  Quarrel  with  Sbakef 
No.  CIV,  of  the  North  Sritith  Mevieto  [ 
—a  writer  of  much  imagination — while  ailowing 


July  1870) 
e  allowing 
that  CriepiBUs  is  in  the  main  Maiston,  thinks  "  It 
seems  almost  evideiit  that  the  petson  &om  whdm 
JonaoD  borrowed  tbe  incident  of  the  arms  waa 
Shakespeare  " ;  or  in  other  words,  that  Jonaon 
wiB  jeering  Shakespeare  end  Shakespeare's  preten- 
nons  to  gentility.  He  has,  howeTer.  given  no 
probable  opinion  for  tiiis,  and  in  truto  if  proof 
wore  Meded,  aa  it  is  not,  that  Ori^iinus  is  Har- 
■ton,  the  BidricBl  deaeription  of  bis  anna  would 
be  in  itself  deuBTe. 
Of  all  whom  JoDBon  attacked  in  bis  Pottatler, 
w  the  oBlyoae  of  gentle  blood.  Partly 


therefore  the  better  to  mark  him  out,  partiy  be- 
cause MaraC^m  seems  to  have  been  fond  of  parading 
it^  and  partly  perhapa  because  Jonson  would  ex- 
hibit him  as  a  sorry  specimen  of  his  class,  Us 
gentilitj  is  brought  forward,  frequently,  promi- 
nently, and  distmctively.  On  the  occasion  in 
question  Crispinus,  having  assertsd  it^  says: — 

"Yon  iball  see  mine  arms  iCt  please  yoa  .  ■  .  mb- 
tress,  for  I  bear  Ihem  abont  me,  to  hare  ^eni  wen :  mv 
name  is  Crispino!  or  Cri-splnaa  indeed;  which  is  wdl 
ezpiwC  in  my  arms,— a  face  ciying,  in  chief;  and  be- 
nealh  it  a  liluody  toe  between  three  tharos  pongent." 

Now  tbis  latter  part  is  merely  a  grotesque 
description  of  the  true  arms  of  Marston — a  fease 
ermine  between  three  fleurs-de-lis  argent  As, 
however,  it  would  have  been  too  perilous  in  those 
days  of  old  gentility  to  ridicule  too  closely  (a 
markedly  an  honoared  heraldic  device,  Joason, 
with  vic^sly  spiteful  malice,  added  in  chief  "  a 
face  cryl^,^'  and  in  so  doing  managed  to  mark 
out  his  opponent  more  distinctively.  It  giay  have 
been  augreated  to  him  by  the  long  melancholy 
face  of  the  greyhound  whic^  is,  I  believe,  the 
Marston  crest ;  hut  it  was  an  addition  which 
became  as  it  were  a  new  and  personal  grant  to 
the  holder  in  recognition  of  bis  glorious  achieve- 
ment, in  that  he,  tbe  upholder  of  tbe  honour  of 
an  old  coat,  had  taken,  like  Decker,  a  pubtic 
beating. 

"Or  If  (transported  by  any  sadden  or  deapetate tesb- 
lation)  yon  do  [malin,  traduca,  or  detract  the  peraoD  or 
writiDgs  of  Q,  Hot.  fUecne] ;  that  then  foa  lAotf  nol 
■Mkr  tht  batUum,  or  in  tht  next  presence,  being  an 
"■monrable  assembly  of   hia  (ivourer!,  bt  t "  — 


Tbe  satire  of  tbe  whole  oath  and  of  the  counter- 
oath  in  SaSrp-Maetix  is,  that  they  swear  not  to 
repeat  certain  acts  and  incidents.    We  leam  also 
from  Drummond  that  Jonson  once  beat  Marston. 
B.  NicBouoH. 


The  old  story  about  the  mother  of  tbe  first 
Duke  of  Buckingham  having  been  a  kitchen-maid, 
and  of  het  descent  from  the  Beaumonta  of  Cole- 
ortim  being  m  invention  of  the  heralds,  having 
been  recently  revived  by  B  popolar  writer,  it  may 
he  worth  while  to  ask  how  the  case  really  stands. 

Here  is  the  atory  in  its  oii^bal  ahape  from 
Caks'B  DtUettoa:— 


"Usjy  BeanmsDtwaa  eutertolMd  in  SirGMtKeTil- 
Uera  hie  family,  in  a  Dieaii  offlc*  of  the  kitchen,  bat  het 
ragged  habit  could  not  shade  the  beaatlfon  and  exoalUnt 
fhune  of  hur  person,  which  Sir  G«i>rf{e  taklu  notio*  of, 

Crevaited  with  his  lady  to  remove  Mary  ont  oftbe  Utcben 
ito  an  office  In  her  chamber,  wUeh,  witli  some  tBIUUttlt 


NOTES  AXD  QUERIES. 


[*«»3.TII.  JtnraajTL 


Ladj  Villier^  Coke  goes  on  to  saj,  died  soon 
after,  upon  whicli  Sir  George  married  ber  maid. 

Soger  Coke's  aathori^  for  the  affaira  of  the 
i^gnof  JameaLdoes  not  ittandTet7hi^b.  In  this 
instance,  however,  he  gives  his  autbonty — one  of 
Sir  Edward  Coke's  daughters  by  his  first  mar- 
riage, who  maj  have  been  well  informed,  but  who 
was  certainly  prejudiced  against  tlie  Villierses 


from  the  opporitaon  which  spnng  up  between 
Coke's  par^  and  the  &Tourite. 

Very  difraient  is  tiie  account  mven  in  the  pedi- 
grees of  the  two  familiea  of  ViHiers  and  Beaa- 
mont,  as  giren  in  Nichols's  LtictderAire,  ill  198, 
744,  the  important  parts  of  which  are  aa  [^fol* 


Biebaid  Cleriis,  Esq. 


'ilUam  BemmoDt,  Eaq.,  of  Colsorton,  d.  II 


I 

According  to  this  genealogr,  therefore,  Sir 
Geoi^e  Vilhers  of  Brooksbr,  tlie  father  of  the 
duke,  was  balf-brother  to  Nicbolas  Beaumont  of 
Coleorton ;  and  that  so  mucb  at  least  of  the  pedi- 
gree is  true  there  can  be  little  doubt,  for  in  a 
deed  dated  Aug.  4, 1679,  eight  yean  before  his 
first  wife's  death,  which  is  tecited  in  bis  own  in- 

J tuition  p.  m,  (Ckaac.  Inq.  4  James  I.,  Part  ir. 
'o.  74),  be  leaves  the  manor  of  Ooadby  to  his 
then  wife  Audrey  for  het  life,  and  after  her  death 
to  Nicholas  Beaumont,  Esq.,  and  his  heirs. 

Let  us  now  see  what  external  testimony  there 
is  for  Mary  Beaumont  having  been  one  of  the 
Beaumonts  of  Coleorton. 

Sir  H.  WottoQ,  a  first-rate  authority  (.Bet 
W<^.  i.  208),  states  expressly  that  she  was  "  daugh- 
ter to  Anthony  Beaumont  of  Coleorton,  Est].,"  thus 
differing  &om  the  pedigree  onl^  in  ^ving  the 
qualifiiattdau  &om  the  abode  of  his  fanuly  instead 
of  &om  his  own.  Goodman  (i.  266)  says  "  she 
was  descended  of  the  Beaumonts,  as  ancient  a 
&mily  as  bis  "  {i.  «.  the  duke's)  "  father." 

Wilson  (^Kmattt,  ii.  699),  whose  leanings  would 
he  against  the  duke,  speaks  of  the  marriage  in  the 
following  way : — 

"  For  tbe  old  man  coming  to  ColeoiUia  in  Leicater- 
ihire  to  visit  a  kioBWomui,  the  Lady  Beaumont,  found 
a  foong  gentlewoman  of  that  nanie  allied  and  yet  a  sec- 
Tut  to  tbs  lady,  who  being  of  a  bandsoma  preatnce, 
look  bie  affectioog,  and  be  mairied  ber." 

This  in  all  probahilitv  is  tbe  true  account  of 
the  matter.  The  Lady  Beaumont  mentioned  was 
the  wife  of  Sir  Henry,  who,  by  the  half  blood, 
ms  Sir  Geoi^  Villiers's  nephew.  Uaiy  Beau- 
mont,a  poor  cotudn,  was  in  tbe  household,  according 
to  the  custom  of  tbe  time,  as  a  wuting  gentle- 
woman, just  as  Margaret  Dakins,  Buccesaively 
married  dt  the  brother  of  tbe  Eail  of  Essex,  the 
bother  (/Sir  Philip  Sidney,  and  Sir  Thomas 
Hoby— witbont  any  idea  of  diepaiagement— wu 


%r  Henry  Beinmout,  Eat.,  d.  Hard)  SI,  1607. 


waiting  gentlewoman  to  the  Countess  of  Huntdng- 
ton.  Even  Weldon,  who  is  scarcely  ever  to  m 
trusted,  and  who  says  that  the  duke's  mother  wu 
of  a  "  mean  "  family,  calls  her  "  a  wailing  gen- 
tlewoman."  The  story,  therefore,  of  Mary  Beau- 
mont having  been  a  latcben-maid  in  Sir  Qeo^ 
Villiers's  own  bouse  may  be  left  to  E.  Coke's  own 
authority,  which,  alight  enough  in  itaelf,  is  abso- 
lutely worthless  in  the  face  of  the  concumnt 
testimonies  given  above. 

Another  point,  which  has  been  made  the  most 
of  by  biomphers  who  write  for  effect,  is  tbe  oU 
age  of  Sir  George  Villiers  at  bis  marriage.  No 
doubt  in  this  they  have  Wilson's  authority,  but 
still,  as  Sir  QeoTKe  lived  some  seventeen  or  ogh- 
taea  years  after  his  second  maniSge,  they  might 
have  remembered  that  he  could  hardly  have  t«en 
so  very  old.  But,  in  point  of  fact,  the  inquiBilian 
on  his  father  (ErcA.  Z«}.  3  &  4  Elii.  "  War.  and 
Leio."  No.  6)  states  that  he  was  fourteen  j«a» 
andmoreonNov.S,l&6L  Agesin  inquisitionimaf 
not  always  be  quite  accurately  given ;  but  if  we 

E've  him  seventeen  years  in  1561,  wecannot  allow 
m  more  than  forty-throe  in  1687,  when  his  fiiat 
wife  died.  The  date  of  his  second  marriage  v 
uncertain,  but  as  hia  second  son  was  bom  in  ISO?, 
he  caimot  have  remained  long  a  widower. 

Again,  Lady  ViUiera  is  said  to  have  been  left 
in  great  straits  for  money ;  M  that,  according  to 
Sir  Simonds  D'Ewes,  he  fint  came  to  court  in 
worn-out  clothes.  As,  however,  ahe  bad  no  lest 
than  860  acres  of  land  with  her  house  at  Ooadbj 
{Chmc.  Inq.  4  James  I.  Part  ii.  No.  74),  this 
part  of  the  story  may  be  dismissed  at  oacs, 
though  (as  she  had  only  a  life  interest  lo  tbe 
land)  she  may  have  lived  aavingly  with  respect  to 
occasions  less  important  than  her  son's  presenta- 
tion at  coorL 

Finally,  what  is  the  truth  abotit  her  rems^ 
riage  P    The  name  of  her  Moond  buhand  prn  (^ 


4*s.vir.jDNB3,7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


in  Bome,  not  in  all  of  the  pedigrees,  ia  Sir  W. 
Zt«yner.  It  sppe&ra,  however,  fiom  the  inquiai- 
tion  into  his  death  (  CAana.  Inq.  6  Jamea  L  Part  ii. 
No.  168)  that  ho  died  Nov.  2,  1606,  and  this 
^ves  little  time,  though  the  objection  is  not  an 
insuperahle  one,  for  a  maniaB^  with  Ladj  Vil- 
liera,  whose  husband  died  ool;  in  the  preceding 
January.  Nor  is  there  anj  mention  of  nia  leav- 
inga  widow,  either  in  the  inquisition  or  in  the  will 
(dated  Oct  27, 1606)  redtad  in  it.  Farther :  in  a 
list  of  tenants  in  capite  in  Leicestershire,  given  in 
Nichols's  LeicetterAire  (i.  cxxxiii.),  Ooadbj  is  as- 
signed to  "Maria  Villiers."  The  list  was  made 
in  1606,  and  corrected  by  one  the  date  of  which 
cannot  be  earlier  than  Slajr  22, 1611.  If,  there- 
fore, the  corrections  were  carefully  made,  this 
would  overthrow  the  marriage  altopether,  and  I 
am,  on  the  whole,  inclined  to  disbelieve  in  it 
nnless  further  evidence  can  be  adduced. 

Let  me  conclude  with  a  query — What  was  the 
date  of  the  marriage  with  Sir  Thomas  Compton  P 
Sanderson  implies  that  it  took  place  before  young 
Villiers  became  a  courtier.  Sanaerson  ia  not  a  high 
authority,  but  if  his  statement  ia  true  it  is  cer- 
tain that  the  step-son  (rf  a  brother  of  Lord  Comp- 
ton would  find  his  way  much  smoother  before 
bim  than  one  who  was  merely  the  son  of  the 
widow  of  a  country  knight 

S.  B.  QlKDINIS. 


The  St  Louis  Jountal  of  8p«cHlatii»  Phthx^s 
for  January,  1871,  contains  an  account  of  a  peretm 
poeeeaaed  of  a  moat  extraordinary  memory,  Mr. 
Daniel  McCartney,  a  labouring  man,  which  has 
been  thus  condensed  by  a  Cindnnati  newspaper ; — 

"  Ur.  HcCutney  was  bom  In  Wcttmoteland  connt}" 
FaonsflvuilB,  S^tember  10,  1817,  and  ia  nearly  blind- 
He  can  read  the  lugcat  print  only  by  holding  it  within 
two  Inchea  of  his  eyw.  Bis  memory  is  exceedingly  re- 
tentive and  mlnate,  and  he  claims  that  be  can  recollect 
the  events  of  every  day  since  January  1,  1827,  when  he 
was  about  nine  years  and  a  halfold.  He  never  kept  any 
record  of  occDnreDces,  and  liu  no  system  of  mr '— 

■•  An  axaminalion  by  D.  W.  ^nkie, 


recorded  (be  events  itf  (brty-flve  yean  past,  and 
that  HcCaitaey**  answers  tallied  with  the  records  of  the 
diary,  Hia  questions  related  to  the  day  of  the  wedt,  the 
state  of  the  weather,  and  occnirences  coming  mider 
IlcCaitiM^'s  obnrvatian.  In  re^y  to  an  interTogatoiy 
in  regard  to  October  8,  1828,  UcCutney  in  tiro  seconds 
aaid:  'Wednesday.  It  was  cloudy,  and  diiziled  rain. 
I  carried  dinner  Co  my  bthv  when  be  was  getting  In 
coal.' 

■QnsstiMi:  'Febmary  31,  1829?'  Answer  in  two 
noonda :  *  Satnrday.  It  was  cloody  to  the  morning  and 
dMr  in  the  aftemooni  then  ma  a  little  mow  on  the 
groond.  An  unel^  who  lived  near,  sold  a  horse  tnart 
that  day  for  Jse.'    Qneatlon: 'October  IB.  1861  ?' 

er,  after  mtsan  a 


plsuant-jike  weallwr,    1 


is:   'Monday.     It  wai  Uiidi 
ttald  aU  night  Sonday  night  a 


my  brothet'B,  and  next  dav  I  went  to  the  depot  in  Card- 

ington  to  saw  wood.'  Question:  'UayS,  1846P'  An- 
swer, in  two  seconds :  '  Friday.  It  rained  some.  The 
SstnrdsT  before  1  attended  aqnarterlymeetinff  in  Iberia." 
"~    "  -         -  _:  'July  IB,  IBSSr    An- 

veiy  hot  day.  I  sawed 
t  day,  and  the  next  day  went  out  into  the 
coontiy  to  boa  potatoes.'  The  same  accuracy  and  faci- 
lity was  sliown  in  respect  to  many  other  dates,  some  con- 
nected with  important  pnbiic  events,  and  others  having 
no  SBch  association. 

"  McCartney  likewise  ■bowed  wonderful  qnicknese  in 
mathematics.  Bdng  asked  to  multiply  S2  by  ib,  he 
returned  a  correct  answer  in  two  secon<fs,  doing  the  sum 
'  in  his  head,'  mnltiplying  first  by  five  and  then  by  fonr. 
In  tbo  same  way  he  multiplied  93  by  97  in  twelve  seconds, 
84  by  &3  hi  eight  second;,  46S  by  12S  in  thirtv-dve 
seoonds,  and  182  by  S, 756  in  four  and  a  half  minutes; 
becoming  confused,  hoverer,  in  the  last  attempt  He  - 
displayed  B  good  knowledge  of  geonaphy. 

"  On  tabMqnent  occanons  Mr.  Hcukle  again  examined 
him  as  to  dates  and  in  cubic  root.  His  accuracy  and 
powen  of  'computalion  were  as  manifest  as  on  lormer 
trials.  His  spelling  was  found  to  be  rather  ftnlty,  bat 
he  knew  something  of  German  by  hearing  nslghboDrs 
speak  it.  McCartn^  is  certainly  a  curiosity,  and  de- 
serves the  attailion  of  those  learned  in  psychology  and 
the  collateral  sdaaces." 

Bar-Poirt. 


RoBcox's  "  Life  as  Williak  Roboos."— Per- 
mit me  to  point  out  one  or  two  inaccuracies  in 
the  remarks  in  this  work  which  relate  to  the  sale 
of  KoBcoe'a  a^eodid  collection  of  books.  In 
chap,  ziv.  p.  10b  (ed.  16S3),  the  bio^pher  states 
that  "  a  COOT  of  the  SappraaUadoiu  Sacrt  which 
had  con  bun  (W.  Rowioe)  a  few  shillings  sold 
for  thirty  guineas."  And  later  on  in  the  same 
chapter,  "  the  splendid  manuscript  of  the  Bible 
was  purchased  for  the  aum  of  two  hundred 
guineas."  Both  of  these  statements  are  in  them- 
aelveal  alightlj  inaccorate :  the  Sappretanlaiiorti 
Saa-t  havmff  been  sold  for  321.  Ot.  6d.,  whibt  the 
price  paid  for  lot  1610,  BiitUa  Sacra,  ulrumque 
Tatam«ntum,vim  I7W,  10«.  These  B^res  I  have 
aacertaiued  by  referring  to  a  copy  which  I  poseesa 
of  the  catalogue  of  the  sale,  in  which  the  prices 
at  which  the  various  lots  were  aold  have  been 
neatly  appended  in  ink.  I  picked  ap  this  relic 
of  BoBcoe  St  an  old  bookstall  in  Liverpool,  and 
from  the  antograph  it  beara,  it  would  appear  to 
have  been  at  one  time  in  the  pooneaaion  of  the 
late  Bev.  Dr.  Baffles,  who  reuaed  at  Liverpool 
for  a  number  of  yean.  Whilst  on  this  matter 
I  may  mention  that  the  church  in  which  Rosooe 
was  married— namely,  St.  Ann's,  liverpool,  ia 
shortly  to  be  pulled  down,  probably  in  a  week 
or  two,  for  town  improremeota.  Efp. 

OiAVCBarsBSBiBi  FoLX  LoBK.— Talking  with 
one  of  the  villageia  lately  about  a  audden  death 
which  ooeomd  here  last  fViday  nigh^  ahe  aaid 
that  ahe  knew  that  there  would  m  ■  death  in 


472 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES 


[4A8.TU.  Jcn3,Tl. 


tba.TiUage ;  there  alwajn  was  one  More  a  moitth 
WM  out  qfUr  an  open  grave  <m  a  Sunthy.  A  mve 
wu.  dug  on  Satuid&j,  Uarch  26,  foi  the  inter- 
nwnt  on  MondAj  momiiig  of  anoUiat  puiehuHicr, 
wlio  had  Riao  died  rather  euddenlj. 

MiKht  not  ths  mystery  of  the  blue  dgni  in 
Grantham  be  revealed  by  aacertaming  the  Duke 
of  Kutluid'a  electioQ'Coloun  ? 

David  Hoyck. 
Nstlunwdl  Ticn«g4  Stow-on-Wotd. 
"Paddy,  ob  Pbsoi,  (yRirfsaTY." — In  the 
Ladiei  Qam  Jomfiai  tot  January  31,  1871,  occurs 
the  following  note : — 

"  In  ODawer  ta  ut  inqulir  of  Toar  camapaiideiit 
■J.  H.  K,,'  in  joar  'Kotea  anaQneneg'  calninn,  regud- 
ing  Eogs't  song  entitled  '  Paddy  O'RaSlrrtT,'  I  iiilbnned 
bim  in  j-oar  namber  of  the  Ladia'  JouriKd  of  30th  Jnly 
l4at,  that  I  had  beard  Hogg  ay  Chat  this  aonf  ""U  never 
printo],  as  he  had  merely  composed  it  to  sing;  Qlnuelf.  In 
four  journal  of  Slitaltl  a  correspoadent — I  sappose  the 
BamB,but  vbose  initials  are  printed 'J.  H.  B.' — again  re- 
ran to  thia  song,  and  aoticits  sny  of  tout  contribaton  to 
give  him  a  cop;  of  iL  He  also  Ba3'a^I  sappoae  in  ref^ 
ence  to  mj'  aosver  Jo  his  first  commBnicslion — '  Re  (that 
ia  Hogg)  was  heard  to  say  that  he  wonld  never  print  it, 
but  keep  it  toeing  himself;  bat  this  may  have  been  a 
bit  of  his  accnstomed  bombast.'  Hogg  has  now  boon  fn 
hia  graire  for  thirty-five  years,  and  has  left  his  memoir 
in  chargo  to  his  conntrymeD,  expecting  it  would  be  aale 
in  tlieir  Iceeping,  and  I  niQch  regret  (o  see  '  J.  H.  B.'b  ' 
remark,  wriUen,  I  hope,  withont  thooght.  As  I  oan 
hardly  thiali  '  J.  H.  R.'  woald  exhibit  so  njach  anxiety 
to  posaeaa  the  songa  of  the  Ettriok  Shepherd  nnleas  he 
waa  animated  with  aome  Inendly  feeling  towards  bis 
memory,  will  he  escnae  me~who  oagbt  to  have  known 
him  wdl — when  I  say  that  be  waa  not  a  talker  of  boro- 
haat,  and,  moreoTei,  I  had  the  most  implidt  ooDfidonco 
tlut  he  would  not  state  as  a  fact  that  which  he  knew  was 
not  troe.  It  ia  very  probable,  however,  that  '  Paddy 
O'Rafforty"  may  have  been  taken  down  ftora  Hogga 
singing  and  printed ;  indeed,  I  am  almost  certain  that  I 
have  seen  It  in  print,  bnt  I  caoaot  recollect  when. 

"J.  H." 
Am  J.  H.  K.,  J.  H.  R.,  and  J.  H.  sufficiently 
coavenuit  with  the  theme  they.ftra  diooussiugP 
The  Bong  "Pe|i;gy  O'RafTerty,"  which  I  preatune 
the  correapondents  unconsoiously  hare  in  view, 
wi»  composed  by  Robert  Tannahill,  and  is  in- 
cluded in  every  edition  of  hia  works.  On  this  the 
Etbick  Shepherd  may  have  written  a  parody,  ud 
being  a  parody,  he  would  of  coune  not  pnnt  it 
Will  not  this  aolutktn  aatisfy  the  queatiou  P 

CHiRLsa  KoaKBfl,  LLJ). 
SaowdosD  Villa,  Lewiahun,  a.E. 
"Ths  IitiflH  OoLOFBS  foldbd,"  bt  "PKiwia, 
PvTiK  Walbh. — It  ia  rather  surprising  that  Mr. 
PrendB^Ast  did  not  euttnlne  the  library  of  the 
Roral  Irish  Academy  for  ths  Iriih  Coloun  /bided 
at  Father  Peter  Walsh ;  for  there  he  could  have 
found  it  among  the  booka  of  hia  deceased  friend. 
Hi.  Charles  Holiday,  which  he  hiva  so  well  de- 
scribed in  the  preface  to  his  CrrnnweUian  Sdth- 
mmt.  They  are  now  catalogued  and  claasifled  in 
a  manner  that  doee  credit  to  this  noble  inslitataon, 


so  that  every  work  amoBg  the  rwaj  tiunuaada  dt 
Mr.  Baliday'a  pamfi-iots  ia  acoMBible  without  a 
moment's  delay.  I  q)eak  as  a  atiaoger,  Wing 
gone  there  this  day  to  look  for  the  work  in  qu» 
tion  and  found  it  at  once.  HiaiOBjoe* 

Doblin,  April  U.  U7I. 

"Htbkbiiis  ipsib  Hiberbioees."  —  tSii  i\nS 

■H^oJ'AXitiBiiSoa  2tiTi:()oi  'iirrapir  A^TH-ai  {ftttir)  fci 
i»  'imrttf  ni*  *'>  'l^mr  ifalrtro  Tpo^tpaTipiit,  b  W- 
0011  Si  v^iiaaiiar  Kal  yvpfoiiiitrot  tW  9iiPtdiir  lAnr 
MoAAw  KviAtioi,  ....  buipip*  U  m)  -rrpr  tin  Opijom 

iK/m-mrwrlai'.— Athentei  Dt^muoph.  IS,  47. 

This  sentence  has  been  attribnted  to  Girald, 
CambrensiB.  C.  P.  L 

POFTTLAB  MZTHOD  OS  OBBKKTinS  ECLTfBK,  — 

'j.hiB,  as  far  back  as  I  can  remember,  used  to  be  by 
looking  at  the  reflection  in  a  tub  of  water.  Ter- 
tullian  mentions  the  very  same  custom  in  hia 
treatise,  jid  Naiiime»,  ii.  v  ■ 


n  sol  siepe  defectioiia  tei 


"  Nothing  n 


p  under  the  ai 


Edkuvd  Txw,  llA. 


Pkovbrb.— "  From  doge  to  ologa  ia  only  ttiee 
generationB."  A  Lanoaahire  proTerb,  implying 
that,  however  rich  a  poor  man  mn^  eTenhiallT 
become,  hia  great-grandson  will  certainly  fkU  back 
to  poverty  and  "clogs."  M.  D. 

Hood's  "Address  to  Us.  Cross." — In  the 
lament  which  the  poet  poun  forth  on  the  death 
of  the  elephant  Ghunee,  spealdng  of  the  loaa  of 
great  public  characters,  he  ezpre»sea  hiquelf  aa 
follows : — 

"  I  ahonld  not  wholly 

Despair  for  six  months  of  anotbarC 

Nor  Uioogb  F lay  on  hia  antatl  bier 

Be  melancholy. 
Bnt  when  will  anch  an  elephant  appear?  " 
In  a  note  appended  to  this  passage  in  the  ool* 
lected  works  of  Hood,  edited  by  hia  son  and 
daughter,  G  .  .  .  ia  identified  with  the  Rev.  0> 
Cro^,  but  F  ...  .  remainB  nndiscovared.  I  be- 
lieve the  character  indicated  to  be  Sir  Thomas 
Powell  Buxton,  the  celebrated  philsnthiopiM  and 
brewer,  who  died  Feb.  19, 1846.  Eiui. 

IidTATioBB  a?  TKE  Old  Ballui:  *'Li  Moem 
Aethub."— In  The  Alheniatm  of  Maj;  20  I  Botioe 
some  observationa  in  which  I  heartily  agree,  a» 
to  the  careless  licenoe  in  which  editors  w  what 
they  term  old  ttallads  oouBtenUy  indulge,  by  in- 
serting pnaeagea  obviously  added  by  mod»ni 
hands,  without  warning  the  reader  of  theb  fl<*- 
tioua  character ;  but  I  tun  not  Bure  of  the  spaiA- 
nesB  of  AD  instance  which  the  writer  alleges.  In 
one  of  His  "  Uorte  Arthur ''  ballada  ooouia  tlM 
fotlowiogline —  lolt' 

"  The  Doke,  aU  riioit  irith  (Ma  n*Uta?*  ^cS 


4'»8.VI[.Jt'SE3,71.] 


,  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


473 


The  writer  givea  good  reason  for  reffardbg  this 
aa  Bishop  Percy's,  hut  proceeds  to  call  it "  a  line 
uupoadble  in  an  old  boHnd,"  and  the  addition  of  a 
" modem ballad-raoDgaT."  la  this  so?  TbebUbop 
OTidMiUj''cribhed"itftom"TbeHeirofLinne"— 
"  Sonlj'  ibent  irith  thia  rebuke. 
Sorely  ahent  wu  the  Heir  of  Linne." 

"  The  Beir  of  Linne,"  like  most  ballads  of  le- 
pnta,  is,  we  maj  presume,  a  piece  of  patchworkj 
but  I  have  always  been  in  the  habit  of  regarding 
this  Bs  an  old  patch. 

Few  perha^  duly  appreciate  the  genuine  ring 
of  an  authenticsted  ballad,  and  fewer  can  imitate 
it  Bums  tried  repeatedly,  and  all-imbuad  with 
the  old  rhTming  spirit  as  he  wee,  could  nerer 
keep  it  up  beyond  a  stanza  or  two.  Scott  (if  my 
own  instinct  does  not  deceive  me)  never  suc- 
ceeded but  once,  and  that  is  in  old  Elspeth's  hug' 
meat  of  a  chaunt  on  the  "  Battle  of  Harlaw  "  m 
The  Anttquaiy.  If  that  be  not  without  a  flaw,  I 
at  least  am  at  a  loss  to  suggest  it. 

Je&h  le  Troftxub. 
Last  Days  or  Gbobqe  IV.  — The  following 
bit  of  court  gossip  may  serve  as  an  illuatration 
'  of  past  times : — 

".  1  IxTe  put  off  writing  rrom  iaj  to  day,"  says  Lady 
B.  to*  friuid  in  the  oounlry,  "ezpecllng' etch  would  b« 
tJiB  Ust  of  our  poor  king's  life.  But  to  Ibe  joy  of  his 
vell-iliipoaad  aubjects  he  bss  taken  a  turu  ud  feela  bim- 
nlf  that  ha  will  do.  lie  baa  sutfered  greatly,  gaeping  tor 
breath,  vfastsTer  the  canae  may  be,  for  the  dnotcra  are  of 
two  opinioiH — Tiemey  that  it  ii  water,  Sir  Henry  Hol- 
land that  it  ia  asthma.  However,  bis  lega  have  been 
scarified,  and  ha  ia  relieved.  Violent  spasms  used  to  come 
on,  and  they  tJioat-ht  be  moat  die.  He  bas  often  sent  for 
tbs  Dnebeas  of  GIouoeHer,  taken  the  aacrimeot  twice, 
and  talked  very  reli);iau9]yt«  her.    Hadame  [Lady  C.]  is 

for,  wbich  is  rarely,  and  then  only  for  6n  minutes.  As 
bis  death  was  hourly  expected.  Madam,  it  ia  aaid,  had 
packed  np  all  she  conld,  but  this  may  be  calumny.  The 
Dncbess  of  Clarence  is  »  nerroua  at  the  Idea  at  tbe 
change  in  tbdr  fiitnalion  and  tbe  reeponsibiUty  attached 
to  it,  added  to  the  fear  aa  to  tbe  eSlact  It  may  have  on  him 
&om  ovsr-excitemeut,  tbatahesbakes  at  bearing  a  knock 
or  a  boiae  galloping  up  to  tbe  door.  She  ia  an  excellent 
woman,  verj'  sensible,  and  would  like  to  hare  ererythiug 
respectable.    But  bow   she  la  ever  to  weed  tbe  motley 

Great  lanientationi  among  tbe  trades-people  that  nobody 
oiden  anything,  supposing  there  must  soou  be  a  mourn- 
ing. Some  have  bought  moutoing,  but  I  will  do  no  suob 
thmg.  I  alwBva  Ihlnt  of  Mrs.  Crewe,  who  bonghc  cheap 
mourning  for  Georgo  the  Third,  and  be  lived  fit^een  years 
after,  wbUe  she  caught  cold  and  died,  and  her  cheap 
moarnlng  was  worn  by  others  for  beiselC" 

Tbis  letteris  dated  May  18, 1830.  George  IV. 
lived  tiUJune  26.  C. 

Mbmorial  Tablbto  at  St.  Bbitbi's,  Patil!* 
Whabp.  ^Wandering  to- day  along  the  newatNet 
to  Blackfriars'  Bridge,  I  came  upon  the  recently 
exposed  north  ude  oi  Wren's  church  of  St.  BMiHt's, 
Paul's  Wharf.  Whilst  admiring  it,  I  notice^  gome 


fine  tablets  against  its  wall,  which  are  now  un- 

iirotect^d  from  the  public,  as  a  roadway  has  been 
armed  close  upon  them.  One  of  tbem  ia  to  the 
memory  of  "  Sir  Kalph  Bigland,  Knt,  Garter, 
born  1  May,  1757;  died  14 JtUy,  1838";  also  to 
his  flrst  wire  and  a  daughter.  Will  not  the  pre- 
sent "  Garter  "  (if  none  of  the  family  are  livmg) 
place  this  tablet  in  the  church  F  The  vault,  I 
presume,  has  been  destroyed  for  the  roadway. 
Another  is  to  the  memory  of  Maiy,  daughter  of 
Robert  and  Mary  Moaer,  May  31,  1827,'  aged 
nineteen;  and  to  Robert,  Sept.  30,  1828,  aged 
fourteen.  Are  these  relatives  or  descendants  of  the 
artist  Mbit  Moeer,  R.A.,  and  ber  father  George 
Michael  Moaer,  R.A.-~ae  it  is  an  unnsual  nanieP 
The  Robert  may  have  been  a  nephew  of  George. 
Why  are  not  all  these  tablets  removed  P  for  they 
-iU  soon  be  destroyed.  W.  P. 

Stkabbxtksb  Libbart.  —  It  may  be  satisfac- 
tory to  know  what  MSS.  have  been  lost  by  the 
fire  at  Strasburgh.  A  catalogue  of  them  was 
printed  by  Haenet.  P. 

La  RfiPTTBLiaiTE. — In  France  under  the  third, 
as  under  the  second  republic,  coins  have  been 
Btruok  on  the  obverse  of  which  is  the  Greek 
profile  of  a  woman,  representing  the  French  Ke- 
"'iblic,  with  tlawers,  wheat,  and  copiously  braided 

lir — the  whole  held  by  a  band  round  her  fore- 
head, on  which  is  incompletely  written  the  word 

Concorde."  (Alast  it  reads  now-a-daya  like 
.  n  epigram.)  Above  the  head  Is  a  star  (an  ill- 
omencKl  one,  I  fear).  At  the  exergue  stande  the 
en^aver'e  name,  Oudin^.  On  the  reverse,  the 
three  sacntmental  words :  "  Liberty,  £galitd,  Frfr- 
temitfi."  God  knows  how  ''Le*  ii^irea  etamis  de 
la  Commune  "  have  interpreted  them  both  in  1848 
and  in  1871.  The  whole  reads  now  as  then: 
"  mpubUque  FruHeaiee,  dfitj^sse  (dee  tresaes)  par- 
tout;  '  Libort6  .  Egalite  .  FratemitS  .'  "  (there  is 
between  each  word  a  full-stop  or  poitf,  which 
latter  word  in  French  means  notj«).  "La  Concorde, 
on  n'en  voit  Ruires.  Oiidini  "  (on  diner)  "  sous  la 
R^pubUqueP"  (when  so  many  are  dying  from 
hunger)^' «  a  la  Belle £toile.  It  is  remttikable 
that  the  three  words,  "  Liberty,"  &c.,  which  ob- 

'n  on  the  coins  of  1870,  have  been  suppreased 
those  of  1871 — probably  as  bdag  too  contrary 
to  truth.  Likewise  the  civic  oak-leaves,  which  on 
the  wreaths  were  interwoven  with  laurel,  have 
disappeared,  leaving  the  latter  only:  no  doubt  as 
a  prot«st  against  the  nefarious  acta  of  the  Com- 
mune. P.  A.  L. 

A  CoiNcmEiTOB. — 

«  It  la  amusing  to  hear  of  tlie  Standard  Napoleon  (pear 
ipple)  bdug  planted  on  Cosheath,  a  spot  where,  dar- 


mW'^c 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*8.Vir.  jCTri!,71. 


AiroHTMOus.— Who  waa  the  author  of  a  little 
work  entitled  Thirty  LOtert  on  variou*  SubJecU, 
2  vols.  12mo.  London,  1733  F  It  contains  an  in- 
teraatin^  criticism  oil  a  poet  whose  nsme  has  ap- 

fiared  in  your  columns  once  or  twice  latelj — 
rancis  Quorles,  coDcernine  whom  the  Rer.  J. 
Pomfret,  ia  the  preface  to  his  poems,  truthfully 
remarks  that  "  OTan  Quarlea  and  Withers  have 
their  admirers." 

IBv  William  JbcIuod,  musical  eompoBer  of  Exeter: 
ob.  JolylS,  180S.] 

I  should  also  be  glad  to  know  the  Dame  of  the 
author  of  any  of  the  following  works: — 

Memoira  of  an  Old  Wig.     8vo.  London,  1816. 
Later*  on  Infidelity.    Second  edition.    12mo. 
Ojtfoid,  178e. 

LBy  George  Home,  Bishop  of  Xomich.] 

Cmfet»i07ie  of  a  GamtOer.     8to.  London,  1824, 

A  Volume  of  Smoke,  in  Too  Pufft,  wUh  5*roy 

Whiffifrom  tie  tame  Pipe.     I2mo.  London,  1869. 

Etiayi  on  the  iSoureei  of  the  IHaatures  received 

from  Literary  Conqtoeitioni.     Second  edition,  8yo, 

London,  1813. 

[By  the  Bev.  Edward  Mangin,  of  Bath  P] 
£dgbaitoD.  A.  H.  Batu. 

What  is  a  Babkow  P — Qules,  two  banowa  or, 
ia  one  of  the  coats  qnartered  on  the  corporate 
seal  of  the  town  of  Droitwich,  in  Worcestershire. 
What  kind  of  instrument  is  a  barrov>f  In  appear- 
ance it  ia  not  unlike  a  wooden  spoon.  H.  3.  O. 
Bboskbick  Familt.— I  shall  be  gUd  to  receive 
any  information  relating  to  a  branch  of  this  family 
settled  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Shap  Fells,  co.  of 
Weatmoreland,iit  the  eorlTpart  of  the  eighteenth 
centuiy.  Were  the  Shap  Fell  Brodericks  cadets 
of  the  house  of  Brodeiick,  Lorda  of  Hiddleton, 
eo.  of  Cork  P  W.  H.  Coitku,. 

Manor  Bise,  Brixton. 

Lbttbb  of  Olitkk  Crouwbll.— Can  any 
reader  inform  me  where  ia  now  preserved  the 
original  of  a  letter  addressed  to  the  Parliament 
by  Oliver  Cromwell,  February  i,  1650-1  P  It  ia 
printed  in  the  apperuiix  to  Hiutis's  Bistorieai  and 
Critical  Account  of  Oliver  CrotntceU,  1772,  p.  638, 
and  reprinted  in  Gough's  second  edition  of  Vertue's 
Workt  of  Thomat  Simon.  It  waa  then  (1772)  in 
the  possession  of  John  Bavmond,  ^Seq,,  of  Fut^ 
ford,  Gloucestershire.  The  letter  is  written  from 
Edinburgh,  "  For  y*  Hono""  the  Cofhittee  for  the 
army  thsee,"  and  relates  to  the  journey  under- 
taken by  "  Hr.  Symonds "  in  order  to  draw  his 
portowt  for  the  Dnnbar  medsL    Oliver  adds — 

"1  shall  mslie  Itmvaeeand  anltennta  yon  that  you 
win  plwwe  to  Cooferr  upon  him  that  implovm'  in  yo'  lar- 
vlce  w^  Hiebolai  Btiatt  had  befora  him,"  &c. 

HxKBT  W.  Hbitpset. 
lUiUiam  HonN,  Brighton. 


Si.  Edwabd  thb  Oosfksob  akd  tbi  Bne. 
The  legend  of  the  ring  given  by  Ring  Edward  the 
CoofeaBor  to  St  John  the  Evangelist  dia^ised  as 
a  beggar,  ia  represented  on  an  sadent  wmdow  ia 
the  great  church  of  St  Laurence  at  Ludlow,  to 
which  town  the  piljnime  who  received  the  ring 
from  the  sunt  are  said  to  belong. 

No  mention  of  these  pilgrims'  home  appean  ia 
the  various  lives  of  St  Inward  the  Kug,  pub- 
lished by  the  Master  of  the  Rolls,  though  the  abvy 
is  there  related.  Dean  Stanley,  in  his  Stentonab 
of  Wettmimter  Abhey^  his  vernon  of  the  lab, 
deacribes  the  Ludlow  Falmera,  and  the  reception 
of  the  ring,  by  the  Idng  at  Ilavering-atte-Bowa. 
Ia  there  any  other  foundation  for  this  legend  being 
connected  with  Ludlow  than  the  window  in  the 
church  P  Tsos.  E.  Wikkisotoh. 

I A  tradition  prevalent  at  Ladlow  wlien  Leliad  risiled 
I  in  tha  reiifa  of  Henry  Till.,  aod  which  waa  even  tlua 
ndent,  Bud  that  the  two  "  palmers  "  who  brongbt  tin 
ing  to  Edward  the  Confeasor,  were  men  of  Ludhiw,  wd 


Aa 


founded  in  the  Dime  of  St  John  the 
original  thereof  ■ms  (u  the  people  aay  there)  in  the  liau 
of  King  Edward  the  Confenor;  and  it  ii  oonsUitfly 
atSnnea  there -that  the  pilgnmi  that  InvD^t  tbe  ling 
from  beyond  tba  sei,  aa  a  token  ttom  St.  Jalm  tlie  Btmi- 

Ct  to  King  Edward,  were  the  lababitantB  of  Lodloir.* 
rary.ed.  1741,  tv.  91.  It  ia  not  impoadUa  thattm 
pUgrima,  on  their  retnm  fVom  Jenualem,  m^  Iksva  ban 
received  by  Edward  the  ConfMnr,  or  tliat  tbesa  two  |dl- 

srinu  may  liave  been  men  of  Ladlow  ;  ttM  tfadi" 

belief  of  this  early  period  thus  ahowlng  that  Out  to 


116.] 

EicHnrsB.— A  series  of  fourteen  clever  etdunga 
appeared  in  1814  in  illustration  of  a  work  entitlw 
SomMing  concerning  Nobody,  edited  by  Some- 
body, London,  pp.  191,  There  ia  no  vtist'e  or 
engraver's  name  appended  to  the  plates,  and  I 
cannot  find  any  mention  of  tiie  book  in  Lowndes 
or  elsewhere.  The  idea  is  one  which,  as  might 
have  been  'expected,  George  Cruikshank  ha^  not 
allowed  to  escape  him,  and  in  hia  OmnOnu  he  has 
diaplayed  the  pranks  of  Nobody,  and  the  punish' 
ment  likely  to  befall  Somebody  in  conset^uence. 
He  made  use  of  the  same  ides  as  far  back  as  1816 
(the  year  Hft«r  the  publication  of  the  work  I  am 
inq^uiiing  about),  in  the  folding  plate  to  Tii 
Scourge  for  Jan.  2  of  that  year  on  uie  subject  of 
the  property  or  income  tax,  one  of  the  figures 
having  a  label  issoing  from  his  mouth  with  die 
words  "  Nobody  pities  yon,  npon  my  htmor."  PM- 
''aps  some  of  your  correspondenta  can  ^ve  ne 
ime  information  respecdng  it  A.  H.  BAIB. 
Edgbaaton.  i 

[Thia  cnriooa  book  haanow  hecome'vety  aoinc.  I^IC 
mcrotii  etchioga  are  by  that  atrange  and  eoceulric  (w 


**&TII.JimB8,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


475 


ntaank  Is  ind^>t«l  fbr  aome  hint)  frain  th«  eBay  at 
"Nobody."] 

Fobs  Abbbi  SAtB. — Can  yoa  mform  me  the 
exact  date  of  the  sale  of  about  two  hundred  point- 
inga  (somewbere  about  twen^  jean  mnee)  at 
Ford  Afabev,  near  Azminster,  Somenetahire  [De- 
Tonsbirel,  by  auction,  after  the  death  of  the  pro- 
prietor, Mr,  Qwyn  P  alao  the  name  of  the  auc- 
tioneer who  Bold,  and  hia  addreas  if  living,  and  if 
dead,  who  carriea  on  his  busbeas  F  also,  whether 
there  ia  anj  catalo^e  of  the  puntinga  in  exist- 
ence P  I  believe  KG.  Miles  ia  now  the  owner,  by 
purchase,  of  the  property.  Fauteeb. 

[John  FTBunceii  Gwyn,  Esq.  died  Bt  Ford  Abbey, 
%  Devunahire,  on  Feb.  28,  1846,  ued  laEbly-lom.  Hia 
piiDlinga  vera  sold  on  OcL  26,  IS46,  and  seven  fbllowing 
daya,  by  Measis.  Engliab  and  Sana,  wboae  local  raidenoa 
ia  not  stated  in  the  Catalwue  (piintsd  at  Bath).  Soma 
account  al  the  aole  will  be  found  in  the  Ge*tlcmtm*t 
MigaBM  for  December,  1846,  p.  625.] 

AmoientObbbk  abs  Rokab  LiTBRinmE. — ^Iq 
1800  Mr.  James  Grey  .lachson  wrote  in  his  Ae- 
cotmt  of  the  Empire  of  Morocco  that — 

'■  If  the  present  ardonr  for  diBcoyety  in  A&ica  be  per- 
aevered  in,  the  learned  vorld  ma;  expect  in  Che  coarse 
of  a  fen  rears  to  receive  biitcnea  and  other  works  of 
Greek  and  IBoman  anlhon,  which  were  translated  into 
tbfl  Arabic  language  when  Arabian  literatore  was  ia  ita 
zenith,  and  have  ever  since  been  confined  to  soma  private 
libraries  in  the  cities  of  the  interior  of  Afiica  and  in 
Arabia.  Bonaparte,  sware  of  the  political  importance  of 
a  practical  knowledge  of  thie  language,  baa  of  late  givea 
nniemitting  attention  to  the  subject,  and  if  we  may  be- 
lieve the  mutilated  accounts  which  we  receive  occasion- 
ally from  France,  ha  ia  likely  to  obtain  from  Africa  in  a 
short  period  relics  of  ancient  leaming  of  considerable 
value,  which  have  escaped  the  wreck  of  narioos." 

Was  this  outdcipation  verified,  and  to  what 
extent  P  W.  P. 

LxNOXH  OF  Haib  nr  Mbit  abd  Wombb. — 
You  have  inserted  a  good  many  remarks  of  data 
about  the  hair  growing  after  death.  Can  you  tell 
me  wbidi  will  now  longer  in  life,  the  man's  or 
the  ^man's  P  I  once  saw  a  young  Dsjiish  lady, 
of  miadle  height,  shake  down  her  hair,  which 
touched  die  ground  as  she  stood.  The  hair  was 
of  light  colour.  I  have  seen  long  bur  with  Chi- 
nese men,  though  none  ao  long  aa  that ;  but  I  am 
told  it  wUl  grow  aa  long.  Q.  R 

OuB  Labt  of  HoirwELi,.  —  A  Lincolnshire 
gentleman,  maMng  his  will  in  the  early  part  of 
uie  eiiteenth  century,  leaves  something  to  "  our 
Lady  off  Holy  well."  What  place  did  be  meanP 
It  was  almost  certainly  in  Lincolnshire  or  near  ila 
borders.  Cobmtib. 

HiLiTABT  Chetboit.  —  Is  there  any  special 
nason  for  Uie  heraldic  chevron  being  reversed  on 
the  sleeve  of  the  enbalteni  officer  P  M.  £. 

«  Tim  Nbw  MoBTBtr." — I  should  be  glad  if 
any  of  your  coneapcmdenta  could  give  me  a  c 


plete  list  of  the  editors  of  tbeifew  Monthh/Mdga- 
n'ns  mnce  its  commencement.  It  waa  started  in 
(I  think)  18S1  [1814],  and  amoi^  its  coBductora 
were  such  men  aa  Campbell,  Theodore  Hook, 
Horace  Smith  (F),  Tom  Hood,  and  Hsnison 
Ainsworth.  F.  Qledhtanbs  WAuea. 

Oxfbrd  and  Cambridge  Club. 

[The  JV™  JWimtfly  Magaiine  and  U»aerial  Rtgiiltr, 
vols.  L  toxir.  1814— IS2D,  the  editonhip  unknown  to  as. 
The  iV<»  JUtmlilj/  Sfoffozint  and  Littran/  JonrTud,  vols. 
XV.  to  XXX.  1821,  &c,  edited  b^  Thomas  Campbell  and 
Hr.  Dubois;  vol.  xxzi.  to  xlviii.  unknown.  The  firir 
MotHMy  Magaiitu  axd  Ifiunoritt,  vols.  xlix.  to  Ixii  bv 
Theodore  Edward  Hook  ;  vols,  liiii.  to  liviii.  by  Thomaa 
Hoodi  vols.  Ixii.  to  liiii.  unknown;  vols.  IxxiiL  4c. 
by  William  Ainsworth.] 

North AMPiOBHHiBB  Feabts. — Can  any  of  the 
readers  of  "  N,  &  Q."  give  me  a  list  of  the  ser- 
mons preached  at  the  Northamptonshire  feasts 
before  those  citizens  and  inhabitants  of  London 
who  were  bom  within  that  cotmtyP  The  first 
was  preached  by  John  WOliams,  rector  of  St. 
Mildred's,  Poultry,  November  8, 1683. 

John  Tatlob. 

Korthsmpton. 

"Ookered"  oe  "Umkbbd."— In  Craven,  when 
trees  overhang  a  road  or  garden,  the  spot  b  said  to 
be  too  much  "  oomered  "  or  "  iimerod,'' for  I  amat 
ajloas  as  to  the  orthography.  The  word  ia  evidently 
from  the  Latin  umbra.  Arran  for  a  B[uder  is 
another  word  that  we  have  from  the  Latin.  Are 
the  above  worda  uaed  in  other  parte  P 

Stbphrn  Jaczbob. 

KoBBBT  abb  Thomas  Pabikb. — Does  the  para- 
graph (p.  388)  imply  that  Thomas  Parker  was 
admitted  to  Magdalen  College  f  His  father  Bxibert 
certainly  was.  He  was  admitted  chorister,  a.d. 
1676;  elected  demy,  1580;  fellow,  1586-169S. 
Anthony  Wood  says  he  was  "  a  divine  sometime 
of  Wilton,  Wilts,  who,  leaving  the  natioo  for  con- 
science-sake, died  at  Deusboiough  in  Gelderland 
in  1630.  J.  K,  B. 

Pissioif  Plats. — Where  are  Passion  playa 

Eerformed  in  addition  to  Oberammei^u  and  ^z- 
)gg  P  Si.  Swithix. 

Plica  Folohica.^Is  the  disease  called  Ilica 
Polonica  well  authentdcated  P  The  oommon 
opinion  is  that  the  hair  becomes  fleshy,  and  will 
bleed  if  cut ;  but  I  have  heard  a  surgeon  say  that 
he  once  saw  the  disease,  and  that  it  is  not  the 
hair  that  changes,  but  that  the  flesh  at  the  roots 
rises  a  good  deal,  and  that  it  is  that  that  bleeds, 
if  carel^y  cut  G,  R 

Daittb  Robskti's  Fkttijkb  ot  Labz  Gbbxm- 
blkbvbs. — Perhapa  some  of  your  correspandentB 
wonld  kindly  enable  me  to  anawer  the  qnestionB 
contained  in  he  following,  which  I  have  received 
from  a  lady  who  has  been  on  a  viut  to  the  dimul 
regions  near  Hancbnter : — 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[:4»a.VIL  Jh»iS,71. 


"We  went  la  Agnaw'i  exbibitloii,  irha«  I  tnmad 
Mveral  <dd  Academy  MroAa,  •nd  a  perfeot  marvel  by 
DaoMKaaetU.  A  ■sallpiMara  itwM  of  a  voman  balf- 
l«Dgth,  On  Uw  ftame  Uoeath  wm  •  line  of  miuic  set  to 
lie  words — 

'  GieanaleevtB  is  mj  heart  of  gold. 
And  who  bat  my  Udy  Greensleeree  ? ' 
On  her  shouldar  ihe  held  her  knielit's  chain  armour  and 
Uie  green  sleeves;  and  the  hand tKat  grasped  tliem  wai  a 
perfect  miracle  of  painting.     Il  looked  alive;  white  tba 
fiica  and  neck  and  other  hand  ware  deid-ooid  in  ooIobp — 
nnnaturallj  cold ;  the  eyes  perf^t  gneo,  the  month  hud 
and  crimson,  and  the  ftce  ohI  of  dnamg.  and  vet  with 
wonderfally  tender  cxprtsaion  in  It,    What  did  it  mean 
Why  did  he  draw  the  ftce  wrong  ?     He  most  have  had 
meaniuK.     Why  did  he  paint  one  hand  Uvioe  and  th 
?    The  picturo  was  not  [de«iiip,  b«  pnftctly 


Uuuk  that  be  wu  the  Ueut«naBt  of  King  JuoDa'i 
own  renment,  but  the  lieutenatit  ««e  probaU; 
the  Christopher  who  died  in  17SS. 

I  am  acquainted  with  all  printed  aooicee  of  in- 
formatiiMi  on  this  sabject,  save  the  Vienna  pob- 
lic&tion,  and  my  queries  could  only  be  answeiM  bj 
a  coneepoDdent  aoqnainted  with  unpublifhed  n* 


7  of  a^pb-blcesoi 
seemed  logrow.  The  general  composition  was  indescri- 
bable. Do  vDD  know  anything  of  Lady  Greenaleevw  ? 
If  not,  conld  yoa  write  to  '  N.  *  Q.'  and  ask  for  thaw 
line^  and  if  there  ia  any  old  bUlad  ?  It  will  haont  me 
till  I  know  the  idea  and  what  it  means.  It  was  covered 
with  glass,  thoDKh  oils.  It  was  on  a  chair,  not  hung; 
and  we,  being  abeorhcd,  nearly  sent  two  young  epedmena 
of  the  Kfanc^ester  *swell '  into  serious  fits  by  turning  it 
npBide  down  and  all  manner  of  waya.  They  thought  we 
were  mad,  evidently." 

For  mjeelf,  not  having  seen  the  picture,  I  can 
onlv  suppose  tbst  the  lad;r's  hand,  touching'  the 
emblems  of  her  lover,  rains  therebj  a  certain 
mistical  proxiimtj  to  him,  and  is  represented 
therefore  ss  drawing  life  from  thence ;  while  the 
rest  of  her  typifies  utter  loneline.'e,  with  life,  as  it 
were,  deferred.  But  perhaps  some  one  more  <it< 
faU  than  myself  with  such  exquisiteness  of  sym- 
bolism will  kindly  elucidate  the  mystery.  I  take 
the  liberty  of  borrowing  my  fair  correspondent's 
initials  for  favour.  M.  M.  C. 

DEsnttrcnoH  of  Subbet  Chubohks  1668. — 
Visiting  recently  the  parish  church  of  Windles- 
ham,  Surrey,  I  was  told  that  its  date  was  166S, 
when  it  was  rebuilt  after  its  destruction,  with  fif- 
teen others  in  the  neighbourhood,  by  a  storm  of 
thunder  and  lightning.  I  have  fulled  to  find  re- 
ference to  Buch  catastrophe,  which  must  heve  been 
noteworthy,  and  oak  your  aid.  W.  T.  M. 

Taaffe  Fakily.— Is  there  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum a  copy  of  the  Mtmain  of  the  Taaffe  Fnm^y, 
published  at  Vienna  in  1S56?  Does  this  work 
contain  e  more  extend ve  pedigree  then  that  which 
appeared  before  the  Committee  of  Privileges 
about  seven  years  ago  P  If  so,  perhaps  some 
reader  of  "N.  &  Q."  who  may  have  one  would 
allow  me  to  look  over  it. 

Whose  daughter  was  the  Lady  Susanna,  wife 
of  Charles  Taaffe,  Esq.,  who  had  a  lease  (July  16, 
1689)  of  the  lands  of  Mansfield,  Ballyclare.  &c 
(Louth)  from  the  Earl  of  CarliogfoniP  With 
whom  did  the  Taaffe  interest  in  Baltycbue  (more 
especially)  terminate  ? 

Christopher  Taaffe  had  these  lands  ia  1689 
when  attainted.    When  did  he  die?  -I  do  not 


HAIR  GBOWING  AITEE  DEATH. 
(4*  S,  Ti.  5iMj  viL  66,  83, 130,  233,  290,  316.) 
My  attention  was  called  many  years  ago  to  this 
subject  by  reading  DousIbs's  statement,  in  his 
JVnua  Bntaniaca,  about  Lady  Chandos's  hair  (see 
above,  vii.  222).  I  have  not  the  book  before  me, 
but  the  following  is,  I  believe,  a  futhful  eztnct 
from  it  (p.  67) :  — 

■■  Mr.  John  Pitt  asanred  mo  that  on  visiting  a  vanil  d 
his  ancMtors  at  Farley  Chapel  in  S<wner»el»hire,  >o  gin 
Olden  for  snuie  neceasary  repairs,  he  saw  the  hair  of  ■ 
young  Lady  Cbandos  which  had,  in  a  moat  exobennl 
manner,  crown  out  of  the  coHln  and  hanging  down  from 
it;  and,  by  the  inacriptiou,  she  was  buried  more  than  a 
hundred  years  since." 

By  "  Farley  Chapel  in  Somersetshire  "  must  be 
meant  (for  there  is  no  other  in  that  coun^)  the 
old  chapel  within  the  ruins  of  Farley  Castle,  nesi 
Bath — a  place  with  which  I  am  very  well  ac- 
quainted. There  is  certainly  an  old  family  vault 
there,  and  in  it  are  several  leaden  coffins;  but 
Farley  Chapel  was  the  burial-place  of  the  Hun- 
gerfords,  and  it  never  belonged  to  the  Lcnda 
Cbandos,  nor  to  any  ancestor  of  the  Pitt  family. 
The  chapel  meant  by  Douglas  is  most  likely  thst 
at  Sudeley  Castle,  near  Wmcbcomb,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, which  did  belong  to  the  Lords  Chandos.  Tba 
widow  of  the  last  lord  (Jane,  daughter  of  Lord 
Bivers)  married  George  Rtt  of  Strathfieidsey, 
and  brought  Sudeley  Castle  with  her  in  marriage. 
Douglas's  mistake  in  the  name  is  not  of  much 
importance,  and  I  only  mention  it  in  coder  to  be 
able  to  say  that,  wherever  else  the  deceaseS  Lady 
Chandos's  hair  may  have  grown  after  her  death, 
it  certainly  was  not  out  of  any  leaden  coffin  .in 
Farley  Chapel. 

But  after  Ms.  J.  Dixoh's  letter  (mpri  vii.  316), 
moat  of  the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  will  probably  have 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  very  few  instances 
of  alleged  growth  of  hair  after  death  may  be 
disposed  of  by  some  more  likely  esplanation.  One 
I  can  suggest  from  my  own  experience. 

A  few  years  ago,  whilst  uraining  a  field  St 
Clapcote  Farm,  near  Grittleton,  co.  Wills,  about 
a  mile  from  mv  house,  the  workmen  came  npon  s 
large  rough  slab  of  stone.  On  raisingittheyfonnda 
sepulchr^  chamber,  about  eight  feet  long,  six  feet 
wide,  and  as  many  deep.  The  tddse  aiid  floor  ,% 
were  formed  of  nmilar  rough  sUbs)  and  onth;'^ 


4*S.TH.  JrasS,-?!.] 


HOTES  AM5  QUERIES. 


477 


floor  lav  (fUlw  apart)  SDine  oak  plasliB,  pei- 
fecUy  macuc,  and  about  three  iocliea  thick,  tb» 
remains  of  a  rude  outer  coffla.  'Withia  these  was 
a  iMdeo  coffin  entiK,  but  aontewbat  corroded. 
The  upper  part  bei^  removed,  a  skeleton  'wu 
ezvosed;  wnioli,  from  the  length  of  the  figure 
and  the  «aMllleH  of  tbe  bones,  was  pregumed  to 
be  that  of  a  jcnag  fMnale.  The  b<»ieB  alao  were 
quits  hUA,  unbedded  in  a  fine  black  silt  which 
ooTsred  the  bott<»n  of  the  leaden  coffin.  Before 
anvthing  further  was  done,  the  proprietor  of  the 
field  sent  for  me,  and  the  mesaeng^  (a  countn 
labourer)  startled  me  at  my  studies  by  the  intsl- 
ligence  that  thej  had  found  a  skeleton  ■'  with  hur 
two  feet  long  I" 

Witii  "  Fule;  Ohapel "  and  "  Ladr  Chandos  " 
well  imprinted  on  bj  memoir,  I  spea  with  great 
curiotiW  to  see  the  wonderhil  ugbt.  Standing 
(Ml  the  brink  at  the  Bepulobral  chamber,  the  akull 
of  the  skeleton  appeared  to  me  at  first  mght  to  be 
portlj  oreigtown  with  hair;  but  on  descending 
and  eiamiaing  more  closely,  it  proved  to  be 
nothing  more  than  the  fine  fibres  of  the  roots  of 
some  moss,  or  other  little  plant,  which  had  found 
nourishment  in  the  blaok  ul^  and  had  qyread 
itself  over  the  skull  to  the  leiwtb  of  aix  or  eight 
inches.  This  was  all.  Nevermeleaa,  tbe  rumour 
of  "  hair  two  feet  long  "  apread  like  wildfire,  and 
naxt  daj,  being  Sunday,  I  saw  hundrode  of  people 
from  neighbouring  villages  flocking  to  the  ^t  to 
behold  the  phenomenon. 

"  Lady  Mordannt's  "  case  at  Turvey  (vii.  390), 
where  "  the  upper  part  of  the  coffin  round  the 
head  was  filled  with  hair,  which  had  pressed  itself 
into  all  ^e  irr^;ulariUes  and  iudentatjons  of  the 
Mtmes,  taking  their  form,"  &&,  and  "  insinuating 
,._..^  ._■_   .?_   ._■___.-___  v.. .,.     -.._„B 


I  fasve  now  befon  me  a  dnuning-pipe  completely 
chewed  with  a  mass  of  flne  fibrous  roots  of  graaa 
or  moBs,  which  being  token  out,  preserves  the 
exact  shape  of  the  pipe,  and  at  a  little  distance 
might  be  mistaken  for  a  roll  of  coarse  hair. 

I  would  only  add,  by  the  wsy,  with  respect  to 
tbe  Clapcoto  leaden  coffin,  that  I  caused  the  black 
silt  to  be  turned  out  upon  the  grasB ;  and  a  few 
days  afterwards,  as  soon  as  it  was  dry,  (m  mkinit 
through  it  with  my  fingers,  I  found  several  small 
coins  muoh  corroded ;  but  one  of  them,  more  per- 
fect, appears  to  be  Roman.  In  the  field  below 
that  in  which  tta  leaden  coffin  -was  found,  I  have 
Ticked  up  teutrte  and  other  marks  of  a  Roman 
LabitatdcHi. 

J.  £.  Ja<XB03i', 

Hon.  Canon  of  Bristol, 
^.dgh  IMtaitaeM,  Chippmham. 


THE  <S.EBI7RNE  FAMILY  i  BALLYOULLITAN, 
OR  BALLYCOLLBTAN:  PATRIOK  EOSATNE, 
OF  CABRICK-ON-SUIB. 

(4"  S.  vii.  122.) 

1  o*e  an  apology  to  NnisOI)  for  not  having 
earlier  answered  his  queries. 

1.  The  ^«eent  name  of  BallycuUitan,  according 
to  the  Qrand  Jury  Booia  of  l^e  county  of  ^p- 
perarv,  and  the  Topof/rapMeat  Bietioiutry  of  Le^Ha 
(ii.  49),  is  BallycoUeton.  It  is  caUed  BaDycol- 
latane  in  the  Down  Survey  and  Bixik  of  Bistribn- 
tiona,  ami  is  a  townluid  of  one  hundred  and 
BBTenty-one  aoBs  Irish,  in  ib.i  parsih  of  Kilbai- 
rane,  or  Eilbarron,  barony  of  Lower  Ormonde^ 
above  county.  8b  Nicholas  "Whyte,  Ir.  pa.  (Irish 
papist),  forfeited,  consequent  on  the  dvil  wan  of 
1641,  but  be  was  granted  posseasioD  twain  in  fee, 
pita  forty-three  acres.  Anagh,  or  Annah  (not 
Arra),  is  a  townland  close  by  Ballycolletan.  It 
was  forfeited  to  Captwn  Solomon  Camby,  one  of 
Oliver  Cromwell's  officers,  by  John  Hurly  {Ir.pa.). 
Anagh,  or  Annah,  cont&lns  two  hundred  and 
forty-three  acres  Irish.  There  is  a  castle  at 
Annah  called  Annah  Castle.  BaUycoBetan  ie 
remarkable,  among  othM  peculiarities,  for  its  co- 
pious spring  wells,  and  "clear  as  Ballycolletaa 
waters  "  is  a  proverb  in  the  district 

2.  The  inecription  on  the  tombstone  over  the 
vault  in  which  the  remains  of  Sir  William  Cleb- 
bume  (as  he  is  called)  lie,  in  the  ancient  church  of 
Kilbarroo,  is  very  nearly  the  same  as  that  given 
by  NiKBOD.  The  vault  is  In  the  angle  under  the 
eastern  glebe,  as  you  enter.  The  momorial  flag- 
stone, which  is  of  tbe  usual  size,  ties  flat  along 
the  upper  surface  of  the  vault ;  ai^,  in  letters  cut 
in  relief,  the  inscription  is  as  follows :  — 
otnjBuinB  .  cLSBBUBiTB  .  SB  .  baixicuixaias  , 

V-I0EB3IMO  .  eECUNDO  .  SIB  . 
ANKO  .  IKIltlHI  .  1684. 

I  read  "vigesMmo,"  your  correspondent  "vi- 
cessimo." 

There  is  a  small  rude  stone,  loeeited  in  the 
front  wall  of  the  vault,  bearing  (he  foUowiDg 
Inscription :  — 

HKKB  LTETH  THE  BODT 
OF 


^  m.IZASETH    ( 

ABEB  IS    CATS,    WVO' 
DIED  Dt  ¥HB  TBAB 

1689. 

As  to  the  exact  locality  of  Eilbarron  church,  it 
b  fdtuated  about  twenty  perches  from  the  east 
bank  of  the  Shannon,  where  the  river  is  exceedingly 
broad,  and  forms  portion  of  the  extensive  expanse 
called  Lough  Darrigee,  or  the  Lake  of  the  Bed 
Eye ;  commonly,  hut  erroneously,  named  Loogh 
Dergb,  which  stretches  between  EiUoloe  and 
Fortumno. 


478 


KOTES  AKD  QUEBIBS. 


[4*&TILJdr 


A  reipected  fneni  imteB  to  me  U  follows: — 
«  The  eet  at  um*  h*  ITXaaODTjd-m  wttatt  to  mi 
the  nme  with  on*  onr  Um  dooi  of  Cubanw  oi  CUboins 
Cut^  io  Comberland ;  but  tlut  bu  no  cmt  tii  motla, 
nordolTMxiUeetanj'otberlnUuoldolmrdithara.  Theie 
■!«,  I  nndcnund,  doeomaila  in  the  R««ordi  in  Dublin  !•- 
It^g  to  apenoii  of  thli  name  who  vm  BeodTsr  Goicnl 
In  QD««a  ^UalMth's  time,  and  who,  I  Iuts  heaid,  liad 
lun  gnntc  mada  to  liini  b7  the  ennni  in  pajment  of 
claJnia  he  made;  and  I  have  lieard  of  a  rather  Gunooa 
Daln  of  Kldare  ct  thii  name,  who  trlBd  to  uafce  oertaio 


beef i  (Dd  that  thai  b 


□  Glonnster,  where  be  left  hi*  libnu?  to  the  eathe- 

dnl  there,  and  othemiae  made  hinudf  rather  a  nsefol 
persoQ.  I  have  been  applied  to  sereial  timea  Ibr  hiitortc 
natiou  of  tbia  dnical  Clebome,  but  I  osTer  had  time  oi 
apportunit;  to  haot  them  up." 

My  friend  goes  on  to  state  that  the  family  tn- 
ditioiu  of  the  CUbboma  (as  tlie  name  now  ie  ynit- 
t«n)  nre  not  satisfactory :  — 

"We  know,"  he  statea. "  that  the  first  Qnakar  of  the 
same  waa  the  aon  of  a  William  CUbbom,  and  we  hara  a 
ridicnloiu  lUirj  of  a  fight  he  had  with  lili  fcther  or 
brother  (Williaoi),  which  was  the  cauH  of  the  total 
break  op  between  the  lipperaiy  and  the  Weatmeath 
bmiliei.^ 

1  naj  add  that  in  Tipperary  coun^,  barony  of 
Lower  Ormonde,  and  aajoinmg  the  banks  of  the 
Shannon,  the  name  of  Clibbom  is  frequently  met 
with  at  the  present  day ;  though  it  does  not  ap- 
pear in  the  Down  Surrey  or  in  the  Book  of  Dis- 
tributienB;  and  that,  near  Clonmel  in  the  same 
county,  the  Clibboma  are  a  highly  nepectable 
and  affluent  family,  enterprising  for  some  gene- 
ratioDS  past  among  tbe  most  extensive  floiu~mill 
owners  and  manuiactoiers  of  flour  in  that  ^eat 
wheat-giowing  coud^.  Tbey  own  Annei  Milla, 
dose  by  the  estate  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bemal  Os- 
borne. 

3.  As  to  Patrick  Eonayne,  the  exceedingly 
clever  Carrick-on-Suir  artist,  I  am  not  aware  that 
he  waa  a  reladve  of  Patrick  Konayne  of  Anne- 
brook,  Queenstown,  co.  Cork.  I  have  written  a 
large  quantity  of  interestjiig  particularB  in  my 
jouma],  tbe  LimeruA  Be^rttr  and  Tipperary 
Fiitdiealor,  in  reference  to  Patrick  Ronayne,  tbe 
accomplished  Camck-on-Sair  artist ;  and  a  gentle- 
man named  Fairell,  a  resident  of  Dublin,  but  a 
native  of  Carrick-on-Suir,  who  knew  Patrick  Ro- 
nayne well,  has  eontribntfrd  some  interesting  letters 
to  the  same  journal  in  reference  to  him.  I  have 
Iieard  that  a  memoir  of  Fatiick  Ronayne  is  about 
to  be  published. 

Mauxice  Lwnmis,  M.RJ.A. 

Limerick. 


DATE  OF  CHAUCBB^  BIRTH. 
{4»  S.  vii.  338,  412.) 

I  be^  to  (a;  a  few  words  on  HwtmwTROTi'i 
suggestions,  which  are  as  ingeniooa  aa  they  sie 
comteoosly  made.  With  t«roect  to  her  reference 
to  the  epithet  "old"  anpliea  to  John  of  Gaunt, 
who  did  not  live  to  comuete  his  flfty-nintli  year,  I 
venture  to  think  that  it  IS  used  by  ^liakipeare,  not 
in  tbe  sense  of  "aged,"  bnt  rather  in  ttuAof  obs 
who  lived  in  old  timen — in  times  long  passed; 
and  if  this  be  so,  I  am  bound  to  admit  that  the 

'  '  et  may  have  been  employed  in  that  sense  by 

Eser  when  be  speaks  of  "  old  "  Ban  Oeffiey. 
MEKTRtrsB's  second  suggestion,  that  the  dela- 
tion of  1  humso  life  is  longer  now  than  it  wva  in 
the  middle  ages,  is  unqnestionaUy  founded  in  fact 

I  would  reply  to  A.H.'squeiy — "Is  not  thirty- 
three  somewhat  too  old  for  a  aquire  to  enter 
military  service  F"  by  asking  wheUier  the  alter- 
native "  thirteen  "  is  not  more  improbable. 

It  is  poerably  my  own  fault,  but  Ms.  Fua- 
NIVAJJ.  hu,  I  think,  rather  misunderstood  the 
object  of  my  note.  I  am  preaching  no  new  Heresy. 
I  merely  seek  to  confirm  the  ancient  belief.  That 
belief  nnquestimablv  was  that  Chaucer  lived  to 
be  an  old  man,  and  that  when  young  he  bad  been 
well  educated ;  and  I  only  sought  to  dear  up  by 
what  seemed  to  me  a.  very  simple  and  natural  ex- 
planation the  change  of  xl  (40)  into  Ix  (60)— « 
discrepancy  between  what  had  long  been  uoivet- 
sally  believed,  and  the  statement  as  to  the  Pp«t's 
age  in  tbe  deposition  in  the  Scrope  and  One- 


We  are  all  liable  to  error,and  the  esrly  biopa- 

fhers  of*Chaucer  may  have  made  mistakes;  not 
protest  against  their  statements  as  to  Chaucer's 
edacation  and  early  life  being  denounced  as  "all 
gammon  and  gaess,"  whatever  that  may  mean. 

It  is  clear  that  Sir  Harris  Nicolas,  no  nnskilfiu 
critic,  and  himself  the  editor  of  Uie  Scrope  ana 
Orosvenor  Roll  (in  which  document,  be  it  le- 
membered,  others  of  the  witnesses  beddes  Chancer 
are  stated  to  have  been  ten  or  «vm  luienly  y^' 
younger  than  tkey  reaUy  were)  believed  the  gene- 
ral opinion  as  to  Chaucer's  ago  was  correct  (we 
his  Life  of  Chaucer).  1  hope,  therefore,  I  ma^ 
be  pardoned  if  in  the  face  of  Ma.  FoKNiTiU' » 
dogma  "that  Chaucer's  residence  at  Oxford  or 
Cambridge,  or  at  any  inn  or  court,  is  all  ^^amfflca 
andguess:  there  is  no  evidence  for  it,"  I  rtiU,nnw 
proof  of  their  inaccuracv  be  produced,  follow  w 
example  of  Sir  Harris  Nicolas,  and  "  accept^  tb» 
suppositions  which  satisfied  the  last  century. 

There  is  one  charge  which  Me.  Fcbsii'^J 
brings  against  me  to  which  Z  fear  I  must  plex* 
gnil^ — that  of  ignorance  of  Mr.  Bond's  interseti^ 
discovery,  and  ol  much  that  has  been  doing  « 
late  ysars  in  the  way  of  Chancer  tUnstratioii.  It 
is  a  third  of  a  centniy  since  I  looked  into  v» 


*8.VII.  JDi.Be,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEBIES. 


io  the  wny  I  have  pointed  out.  Mr-Fukitivall, 
from  his  canaecdon  with  the  good  work  of  pub- 
lishing ft  fitting  edition  of  Chaucer's  writioga — in 
which  I  ahould  once  have  been  glad  to  take  a 
part,  however  humble — is  of  course  ou  cowant 
with  the  Utest  discoTeries  connected  with  the 
poet's  life  and  works.  In  that  he  has  so  greatlj 
the  advantage  over  me,  that  had  I  sntidpated 

froToking  bis  trenchant  critjcism,  I  scarcely  think 
should  have  troubled  Chaucer  students  with 
what  I  believe  to  be  a  simple  mode  of  clearing  up 
a  difficulty  in  the  biography  of  oar  earliest  and  all 
but  greatest  poet ;  and  it  was  inniply  in  my  de- 
« to  establish  the  truth,  and  not  for  the  purpose 


Chaucer's  birth.  Wiluam  J.  Thoxs. 

F.S.  I  have  received  from  a  well-known  man 
of  letters  a  very  flattering  communication,  in  which 
be  suggests  a  new  interpretation  of  the  words 
"anneez  par  »vii  ana"— viz.  that  Chancer  had 
been  cil«d  by  the  heralds,  and  had  bad  arms 
asrigned  to  him  for  or  unce  that  period.  Can 
any  correspondent  confirm  the  use  of  the  word 


ST.  ABBREVIATED  TO  T. 
(S^  S.  i.  219, 266,  296.) 

Four  examples  of  this  abbreviation  are  quoted 
by  CniEBXBT  Bbdb,  vii.  TooUg^St.  Ooley,  i.  s. 
St  Olaf ;  and  Taadrew,  TaiUhtmff,  Tawdry  (used 
of  gaudy  finery)  =  respectively  St.  Andrew,  St. 
Anthony,  St.  Audrey.  I  myself  have  but  little 
doubt  that  ta  these  cases  tbe  t  comes  from^iSSE. ; 
but,  as  one  of  your  correspondents  suggests  tbat  the 
t  is  merely  the  familiar  rustic  abbreviation  of  tht, 
and  as  this  derivation  of  tawdry  is  looked  upon  as 
rather  uncertMn  by  Wedgwood,  Miiller,  &c.,  I 
think  it  is  well  to  give  an  example  which  camiot 
be  gfuiuaid.  Such  an  example  I  find  in  the  Por- 
tuguese Tiago  ^  James.  That  the  t  in  this  case  is 
derived  &om  Santo  is  indubitable,  for  tbe  ordi- 
nary Spanish  equivalent  of  James  ia  Sanliiigo.' 

On  the  road  &om  Cambridge  to  Haslingfield, 
and  in  Haslingfield  pariah,  I  have  noticed  tbe  name 
Abraham  Tafmham  on  a  public  house.  Has  the 
t  in  this  name  Tabraham,  which  I  do  not  find 
in  Dr.  Cbamock's  Ludut  Patrmymiatt,  alto  come 
from  situiff 

It  is  sewcely  correct  in  these  cases  to  say  that 
SL  has  been  abbreviated  to  t  It  ia  impossible 
fhlly  to  pronounce  the  mntes  (or,  as  Max  Miiller 


*  I  oncfl  knew  a  Frenchman  of  the  name  of  Tjfack,  and 
I  think  tfafai  Dame  mar  have  a  rimllar  conDcetioo  with 
£(.  Juefun,  ilthaogb  Che  French  j  has  Dot  now  the  Mitmd 


calls  them,  cAecks)  k,  t,  p;  g,  d,b:  n,  m,  when 
final  consonants,  without  virtnally  doubllngi' them ; 
and  when  the  first  letter  of  the  next  word  ia  a 
vowel,  tbe  second  half  of  these  checks  is  tacked 
on  to  it,  if  no  pause  is  made  in  the  prtmunciatioii. 
Thus,  if  we  carefully  examine  our  pronunciation 
of  soMi,  we  shall  fina  that  we  really  prononnoe  it 
taint-tijX  and  this  te,  or  rather  (,{  is  joined  on  to 
the  following  vowel.  Max  Miiller  calls  attention  to 
this  matter  {Ledureg  on  the  Soiaice  of  Language, 
2nd  Series,  1864,  pp.  142, 143),  but  he  does  not 
express  himself  accurately.    He  says :  — 

"  If  we  »7  la,  the  eChct  piodaoed  on  ths  ear  is  very 
diflbrtnt  ttom  ai.  1b  the  first  cue  the  conaonantal  ooIm 
U  produced  bf  the  raddeo  opoung  of  the  tongue  and 
pilate ;  in  tha  second  by  their  shatting," 

But,  if  the  tongue  is  shut  agiunst  the  palate,  the 
full  sound  of  dX  is  certMnly  not  heard..  We  may 
perhaps  hear  enough  to  tell  us  tliat  a  A  is  com- 
mg{|{  but  the  tongue  must  be  drawn  away^m 
the  Tolate  agun,  before  we  get  the  full  sound  of 
the  ft,  and  then  we  really  pronounce  ah-ke.  He 
makes  a  omilar  mistake  (ibid.  p.  139)  when  he 
says :  "  If  we  bring  tbe  root  of  the  tongue  against 
the  soft  palate,  we  hear  the  consonantal  noise 
of  (."  This  is  certwnly  not  true;  for,  till  we 
aenarate  the  root  of  Oie  tongue  bom  the  soft 
palate  again,  and  thus  give  vent  to  a  vowel  sound, 
we  hear  nothing  at  all.  Hence  the  name  eon- 
lonaat — that  which  is  sounded  vrith,  or  cannot  be 
sounded  without,  a  vowel. 

This  peculiari^  of  the  mutes  has  long  been  felt, 
and  hence  no  doubt  tbe  circumstance  tnat  in  Old 
English  we  find  an  e  vnitten  at  tbe  and  of  words, 
as  in  twoole  (sweet),  roote  (root),  &c  Sometimes 
the  preceding  consonant  was  doubled  as  well,  as 
imu  fin),  «lerre  (star),  &c.  And  so  again  we  may 
explam  the  double  n  and  double  I,  stdU  so  common 
in  Qerman,  as  in  Afonn,  Bonn,  Fett,  Bett,  kc%  Out 
forefathers,  therefore,  expressed  the  real  pronun- 


t  DoHblt  Is  scaicely  comet,  u  tbe  first  half  of  the 
mute  has  by  do  means  tbe  stme  value  as  the  second  half. 
TbC  the  only  way  of  ezpreiaing  mr  nwaning  in  writing 
is  U>  write  the  censonant  double.    See  note  ||. 

t  The  « in  »  ~  the^French  <  in  (fa,  ftc. — lbtUrvoc<Uu 


^  __  ..dohearCbatalisMimlng.itcuionlrbebeeaiue 
tbe  toDgoe  is  not  ctoaeir  pressed  agaiort  tlu  palate  {  ftor 
if  they  be  pressed  together,  to  (ha  tliorauh  exdnsionaf 
the  brsatfa,  nothing  at  all  can  Im  beard,  u  pronoondng 
jI,  and  the  other  aonseoaats  named,  there  ate  two  pro- 
oeeees.  The  fint  ooiuists  la  pnttii^  the  luoesuij  organs 
in  poeitioo,  and  Is  accompanied  bj  no  soond;  the 
■aoond  con^A  ta  separating  thcas  orgaai  agdn,  and  is 
accompanied  bj  the  eonad  of  the  ao-oalled  contonanL 

" <-—  ■- — anr,  vlrtaallv  ao  existssoa  at  aU, 

vowels  modned  by  the  dUteent 
organs  of  apaecb;   whilst  tbe  vowels  thenwelves  ate    r 
merdynodifloatioDSoftbBSliDplsnaaspiratsdbnatli.      ^  |P 

Y  Thedovbleaansonant  nrTM,nodoDbt,also  toshow  ^ 
that  the  pteoedlag  vocal  was  not  long. 


NOTES  AND  QUfiBIES. 


[4*8.vn.  Ji 


dxtioii  more  nccuntelj  (hsn  -trv  do,  though  -we 
spun  DuimlToa  labour  and  ink.         F.  Gsahob, 


DEDICATION  OF  CHUBCHE3. 
(4*8.  Ti.4»;  vii.388.) 
There  con  be  no  doubt  that  the  praclice  ot  dedi' 
Mtinq  ohurohea — not  to  aoj  Mint,  W  to  Almightf 
God,  ID  hiHiour  ftnd  memonr  of  Mine  saint— wu 
uniTersaUj  followed  in  England  in  early  times,  as 
it  waa  in  every  other  part  of  the  Church.  It  is 
ol«at  from  the  firitiah  historian  Qildoa,  who  WMt« 
about  the  year  560,  that  the  Britons  had  their 
churches  in  honour  of  the  martyrs,  even  at  the 
beginning  of  the  fourth  century :  "  baailicM  sanc- 
torum martyrum  "  (p.  19).  8l  Bode  relatM  that 
irtien  St  Augustin  and  his  eompomoua  ware  sent 
to  Enghind  by  the  Pope  SL  Qre^ry  the  Great, 
in  C97,  they  found  an  old  church  near  Canterbury, 
where  the  queen,  who  was  a  Christian,  used  to 

Erform  her  aevoliona,  which  had  been  built  long 
fore,  in  the  time  of  the  Romans,  in  honour  of 
St  Martin:  "in  honoiem  Sancti  Martini  anti- 
quitua  facta,  dum  adbuc  Bomani  Britanniam 
mcolerent"  {Sia.,  lib.  i.  c.  26).  The  Anglo- 
Saxons  alwa<^  dedicated  their  churches  in  memory 
of  some  samt.  In  every  form  of  consecrating 
churches,  and  even  altars,  as  in  the  Fontificau 
of  Egbert  and  BUhop  Lacy  of  Exeter,  the  name 
of  the  saint  in  whose  honour  the  chuKh  or  altar 
is  dedicated  Again  and  agtun  occurs. 

I  fear,  however,  that  when  all  local  tradition 
of  the  name  of  a  church  is  lost,  there  is  hardly 
any  chance  of  recovering  it  Bishop  Challoner, 
in  his  Memorial  of  Sr^ish  Pfefy,  has  a  copir 


Mipendix 
Btably  CO 


ftably  consulted. 

The  practice  seems  to  have  been  universal  in 
tii6  early  Church.  Amon^  the  Anglo-Saxons  no 
solemnity  was  celebrated  with  greater  pomp  than 
the  dedication  of  a  church.  It  wsa  tbe  custom 
in  the  first  ages  of  Ghriatianity  to  celebrate  the 
Holy  Eucharist  upon  the  tombs  of  the  martyrs 
(^usebius,  lib.  iy.  c,  16 ;  St  Cyril  contm  Julian, 
327,  334).  After  the  conveiMon  of  Conatantine, 
the  bishops  eilber  built  new  churches  over  former 
tombe,  or  removed  the  contents  of  the  tombs  to 
th«  new  churchea.  Heooe  it  beoame  a  general 
rule  to  require  relics  of  saints  for  the  rite  ^  con- 
aecration,  although  -we  are  told  that  the  Eucharist 
waa  sufficient  when  relics  could  not  be  procured, 
becauae  it  waa  the  Body  and  Blood  of  Christ. 
When  such  relics  had  been  brought  in  pTooewion 
to  the  church,  at  the  porch  the  bbhop  stopped, 
and  announced  to  the  people  the  name  of  the  saiot 
to  whose  honour  the  church  would  be  dedicated. 
He  then  depodted  three  portions  of  the  E^uAaiist, 


together  with  the  relics,  in  a  cheat ;  which  *m 
thiHi  plaoed  under  the  altar,  and  the  prayer  of 
dedication  followed.  (For  a  detuled  aocountgf 
thiBceremonialBeeIinnud's..dtwJi>-&u:MChroL 
1846,  ML  ii.  pp.  39-43.)  G.  M.  T. 

A  list  of  English  and  Welsh  dedicatiaas  vu 
given  by  Ecton,  after  each  church,  in  ThetaunuSe- 
rwn  EcctettaiticDnim,  with  additions  at  pp.  78S-4 
(4to,  London,  174S).  The  nomber  was  mioe  nxn 
'  '  Bacon's  LAtr  JUi/a  (4to,  LonduD, 


1786). 


E. 


"M^HOIBBa  Da  CXSASOVA." 
(4*3.viL828.) 

Mb.  Friswsll  inquires  as  to  the  degree  «( 
authenticity  to  be  attached  to  the  famous  oi  is- 
famous  memoirs  of  this  adventurer.  The  bcit 
answer  is  conveyed  in  the  words  of  the  man  iriia 
first  brought  him  into  notice,  the  celebrated  Pdaa 
de  ligne,  who  speaks  of  him  freq^uently  in  bit 
Mimoira  et  Milanges  higtoriouet  at  littfraira.  So 
man  was  abetter  judgeof  wit  and  genius  thtn Ibe 
brilliant  courtier  of  "la  grande  CaUierine,"  as  be 
called  the  great  Czarine.  Speaking  of  a  kindRd 
spirit— the  renegade  Count  de  Bonnevsl— tie 
prince  says  of  Casanova ; — 

"Homnucd^bn  par  son  esprit  gsi.  prompt,  tt  saW. 
tt&  ouvrsges,  r^mditioa  la  plus  profonde,  ec  I'uniti^  it 
toiu  ceox  quJ  le  conluiassnt,  etc." 

Elsewhere,  in  bis  Mimoirm  lar  la  IfoHmau 
Greet,  the  prince  cites  the  following  clever  wlcrt 
of  Casanova:  "Je  n'eatime  paa  ceuxqui  ach^teiit 
la  noblesse,"  observed  the  Emperor  Joseph  II  to 
Casanova.  "Etceuxq^ui  la  vendent,urei"'iw 
the  apt  repl^.  The  pnnce  furnishes  most  bl»- 
restin^  details  of  the  closing  yean  of  Gasanon, 
and  hia  charming  style  would  lose  much  in  trui- 

"  Jb  onrii  que  c'M  aloiii  <17B!)  qn'il  Tint  k  Puii  poii 
la  deitd^  fou.  Hon  neven  W^dsUiD  prit  dii  ^t  pto 
loi  chei  I'uabaHadeiit  de  Teniu  et  li^  propoudelV 
compagner  ea  Bobfme.  CaunDve,  k  bout  d'sigest,  ^ 
vayegis  et  d'aveDtnreh  yconKot :  le  vollii  blbliaUi6»R 
d'uii  desceiidaat  du  grand  WsldiUln.  II  a  pus^  ea  oCt 
qoalit^  In  quatOTze  derni^ro!  mo^  de  w  fie  in  chlMi 
de  Dui  prta  de  Tieplite.  J'eon  ocMslon  de  Tv  voir  woduil 
rix  ^t^cong^cnUh,  et  il  me  mditv^tableneiit  h«RU 
par  la  vlva^m  de  bod  imagiaation,  qai  i^tait  eucoit  OCuE 
d'unjeuiie  boiame  de  vingt  ani,  et  par  aa  profbnda  <!ruili- 
tioo.  Qu'oa  ne  crole  pu  cependant  que,  dans  «  po'^'J 
banqulllltd  que  la  blenftaance  do  comt*  WtUaiila  I" 
avail  ouvert  poor  le  preserver  eontn  lea  tempem,  il  x'* 
ait  paa  efaereli^.  II  n'ja  paadejiMT  qn'U  n'lU  en  qHlil>' 
diapBte  dans  i*  maisoD." 

It  would  take  up  too  much  space  to  oontiiw 
the  amusing  details.  Ssffioe  it  to  say  that  i* 
cspridons  snscoptilrility  never  wearied  the  M*^ 
ship  of  his  patron,  who  watched  over  hint  low 
close  of  Ms  existence,  which  was  "  decent  and  hi- 


*»S.TIL  Jdb«S,71.] 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


481 


fyuw."  He  died  at  Dux  iu  1797,  oi  at  Yieanh 
18(0.  We  h«T«  the  pontiva  aaMinnce  ol  tbe 
Prince  de  Ligno  tb&t  Casanova  wrote  his  memoin 
with  his  o-rni  baud  wbile  at  Dux.  It  is  true  that 
he  spoke  little  about  Cham,  and  muntained  pro- 
found nlenee  as  to  thob  contents.  He  ctHifided 
the  mHUUBcnpt  io  Count  Weldatein,  irho  read 
them  before  me  uncle  the  prince.  The  latt«T  was 
BO  strndi  by  Uism  that  lie  wrote  a  notice  or 
"ITi^ment  eur  OamooTB"  under  the  title  of 
"  AventUTOs  "  in  the  fifta«lth  volume  of  his  (Euvret 
miUet.    MaDT  efforts  were  made  to  obtiun  their 

EuUicstion,  but  it  was  not  before  twenty  years 
ad  elapsed  after  his  deitth  that  &  truncated  edi- 
Ijon  appeared  in  Qermany.  The  ori^nal  manu' 
script  is  written  in  French,  and  consists  of  600 
leaves  or  sheets  divided  into  t«n  volumes,  and 
each  volume  into  chapters,  comprising  forW  years 
of  his  eventful  career.  It  whs  from  flus  that  the 
first  French  edition  was  published  in  1830,  iu  eight 
vols.  8vo,  and  fourteen  vols,  in  12mo.  Other  edi- 
tions have  appeared  iu  1837  and  in  1843,  Paris, 
Psulin,  four  vols.  12mo.  I  have  a  rare  portrait  of 
Casanova  —  a  medaUion  with  Latin  inscription 
round  it  and  under  it,  "L.Berka  del.  etscPragte." 
A  word  may  be  added  concerning  the  work  itself. 
It  is  characterised  by  the  most  outspoken  crudity 
of  detail  in  the  amorous  adventures,  but  in  other 
reapects  it  i9  invalunble  to  those  who  do  not  con- 
tent themselves  with  offidal  history,  but  look  to 
personal  memoirs  for  k  demim  det  cartes.  The 
man  who  wns  iu  personal  relations  with  ail  the 
potentates  of  the  age,  the  royal  mistiessBS  and 
subservient  luimstere,  the  associate  of  the  scheming 
adventurers  of  an  age  of  credulity  such  as  Ca- 
gUostro,  Saiut- Germain,  and  the  Illuminati,  who 
repeatedly  visited  every  country  in  Europe  in  al- 
ternate alHueDce  and  poverty,  has  much  to  say 
about  all  classes  of  the  community. 

"Ce  qo'llnconte  il 
presycni;  eCc'esCait 


pnniue  toiuonre  vu  de  ees  pm- 
]u'il  donne  sur  une  dpoqae  ridie 
lUes  one  tbule  de  trsiu  emnc- 


0  brothers,  bom  in  London  ii 
1781,  were  distingui^ed  painters. 


J.  B.  DnosKitoji. 


DiQAHMA  (#''  3.  viL  414.) — My  opinion  is  that 
the  letter  H  b  the  digamma,  being  a  letter  formed 
to  express  the  guttuml  sound  of  the  aspirate,  as 
we  find  among  the  Frankish  kings.  H  Ludovicus 
ie  often  written  Cblodovlcus,  which  shows  clearly 
the  harsh  or  hard  sound  of  the  H.  P. 

Chisroits  (4"  S.  vii.  AS.)  —  fVom  the  same 
origin  or  root  comes  our  expiea^on  "  a  chine  of 
baron."  P. 

Gibbon  (4'^  S.  vii.  418.)— The  edition  of  Gib- 
boa  datal  1819  is  full  of  errors,  some  of  them 
very  gioss.  P. 


Oi^D  Faiui^ibs  :  Kniohis  ot  Cbabiw  L,  1980 
(4'o  S.  vii.  ^U.) — A  great  number  of  receipts  of 
finee  for  not  being  knif^ted  were  discarded  itva. 
the  Keoord  Offices,  but  ftniunUdr  many,  if  not 
all,  were  entered  ia  a  book  stUl  left  in  theBMOtd 
OflSoe.  P. 

St.  Thokas  op  ViLLAiroTA  (**  S.  vii.  431.)— 
Besides  the  admirable  Life  of  this  ssint,  refrared 
to  in  the  editorial  note,  the  inquirer  wUl  find  « 
great  many  mor«  psrticularB  in  hb  Biography  br 
the  htte  Dr.  Paber,  puUishsd  in  1847  hj  lUchatd- 
son  and  Sim,  Detby.  F.  0.  H. 

Etvmoloot  op  "  Wakh  "  as  a  PsBSoSAt  Namb 
(4*  S.  vii.  266,  350.>— Is  J.  G.  N.  acquunted  with 
Mr.  Toppfer's  entertaining  fetches  F  In  his  Bi»- 
toire  de  Mr.  Crepm,  "I^  Gude  ChampStre"  is 
introduced  under  a  variety  of  amusing  conditjons, 
but  never  in  the  feminine  gender.  C.  S. 

The  Mbmoby  op  Shells  (4"'  S.  vL  297;  vii.  178, 
413.)— Having  lived  many  years  among  Chinese, 
I  can  corroborate  Mb.  Blaer  as  to  the  peculiar 
odour  observable  in  their  shops  and  dwellings ; 
the  idea  it  gave  me  (and  still  gives)  wsa  that  of 
Kwnge  and  gemdal-iaood.  Mb.  Blais  correctly 
describes  the  dorian;  he  mis'ht  have  added  that 
it  is  an  aphrodisiac,  as  mav  be  guessed  from  the 
exclamation  of  a  decent  old  Scotch  lady,  when  a. 
new  arrival  in  Singapore  was  about  to  taste  it  for 
the  first  time : — "  Maiater  Tamson,  lay  that  doon, 
ye  mauna  eat  it  j  it  '11  no  agree  with  ye,  and  be- 
sides that,  it's  a  maist  unchaste  fruit." 

W.  T.  M. 

A  Cbouwbll  Notb  (4"'  S.  vii.  429.)  —  Ac- 
cording to  the  pedigree  in  Burke's  Landed  QaUry, 
the  second  Protector,  Richard  Cromwell,  only  left 
three  daughters;  therefore  no  grandson  of  his 
would  bear  the  surname  of  Cromwell.  Of  these 
three  daughters  the  first,  Elizabeth,  died  unmar- 
ried in  1731;  the  second,  Anne,  married  Thomas 
Gibson.  M.D.,  pbyudan-general  to  the  army,  and 
died  without  issue  in  1727;  the  third,  Dorothy, 
married  John  Mortimer,  Esq.  of  Uie  county  of 
Somerset,  and  died  in  1681. 

Hbs&c  W.  Hbhfbby. 

Mai4ibam  Ilmue,  Brighton. 

HoeAif  (4''  S.  vii.  430.)— Parhape  from  the 
Dutch. 

"  Hogan  Mogaa  (high  and  mighty),  a  title  of 
the  States  of  the  United  Provinces  of  the  Nethet- 
lands." — BmUg.  R.  S.  Chabnoce. 

Gray'a  Inn. 

Obeying  Captain  Cuttle,  I  send  the  following  , 
"note,"  made  the  other  day  Uana  that  oddest  of 
oddoldeontroverBiBlbo<As,tDeJlfan-JfoiMBri660), 
by  the  twin-brother  of  Henry  Vaughan  the  Silurist. 
In  his  e]^tle-dedicatory  to  good  Matthew  Herbert,    . 
he  vehemently  disclaims  any  courting  of  the  "  great  >  |  p 
ones,"  and  thus  puts  it :  "  The  truth  ia,  I  know  no  S 


NOTES  AND  QUBBIES. 


[iuaVU-Juna;?]. 


nw  of  So^mi  and  Tibilado»i  if  tb^  >«  in  an 
humor  to  giTOf  I  am  no  lMg(|ai  to  lecMTe."  la 
the  Hoghau  here  the  aame  with  "the  Rreat  Rap- 
paiee  chiob"  and  "galloping  Hotfim'  of  your 
lent  W.  F^  ot  lathet  of  the  editorial 


coneepoDdf 
reply  f  If 


Wab  Mkdals  (i"-  S.  Tii.  13, 131,  294)— 1  beg 
to  correct  an  error  at  p.  131.  Of  the  tix  iUTYiTors 
of  the  Peninsulu  Wu  who  applied  for^,^wn 
claepa  each,  only  lieo  made  good  their  cluma. 
These  were  Private  Jamea  Talbot,  46th  Begt., 
and  Private  Daniel  Lookstidt,  6th  Battn.  60th 
Ragt,  prerioualy  of  the  King's  Oerman  Legion. 
The  former  had  been  present  at  the  battles  of 
Boleia,  Vimiera,  Coruima,  Talavera,  Bueaco, 
Fuentea  d'Onor,  Ciudad-Rodrigo,  Badajoi,  Sala- 
manca, Vittoria,  Pyrenees,  Nirelle,  Nive,  Orthes, 
and  Toulouse.  The  latter  served  at  Albohera,  and 
in  aU  these  eogagemeutB  with  the  ezceptioa  of 
Corunna.  The  other  pensioners  were  gianted  from 
ten  to  fourteen  clasps  each.  J.  W.  F. 

"  Is  THE  Steaw  "  (4*  8.  vii.  407.)— I  always 
supposed  that  this  phrase  had  reference  to  the 
practice,  very  prevalent  in  London  before  Maca- 
damized roads  were  made,  of  laying  straw  before 
a  house  in  wUch  a  lady  was  confined. 

The  mention  of  Macadamised  roads  recninds  me 
that  I  saw  roads  made  upon  that  principle  in 
Westmoreland  before  MacAdam  introducea  them 
as  a  novel^  in  London;  and  &om  a  passage  in 
Cattle  Sadcrent  it  appears  that  those  roads  must 
also  have  been  in  use  in  Ireland,  for  in  the  account 
^ven  of  the  overthrow  of  Lady  Rackrent's  jaunt- 
ing car,  it  is  stated  that  "she  was  draped  I 
can't  tdl  you  how  &r  upon  the  road,  and  it  all 
broken  up  with  stones  iust  going  to  be  pounded; 
and  one  of  the  roadmafers  with  bis  sledge-ham- 
met  in  bis  hand  stops  the  borse  at  last,"  &c 

Another  word  upon  a  kindred  subject  Long 
before  the  nse  of  asphalte  was  introduced  into  this 
Gonntrr  I  saw  floors  of  farm-houses  and  of  bams 
in  DerDyshire  made  after  that  manner,  with  this 
difference,  tEiat  the  material  used  for  binding  the 
mass  together  appeared  to  be  lime  instead  of 
pitch,  C.  Boas. 

The  saying  was  referred  to  in  "  N.  &  Q."  3''  S. 
X.  321,  403,  m  connection  with  the  song,  "Moll 
in  the  Wad,"  which  appears  to  be  onl^  another 
form  of  saving  "  Molt  in  the  Straw,"  i.  e.  after 
het  (tcconchement  Mb.  Szut  quoted  the  fol- 
lowing from  Nares'  Oloueryt — 

•■  JTad,  K  bnndls  of  hMj. 

'  A  wi*p  of  nuh«  or  K  clod  of  Und, 

Or  ■nv  wadde  of  bar  that's  ntxt  to  hud, 

Tbej'n  ■teslc'—Tsylor'a  Worki,  1640." 

JoHir  FiaeoT,  Jur. 

"Thb  Suit  itsysk  Sns,*^  sia  (4'>  S.  ii.  636; 
viL  310,  393,  888.) — This  ides  oocdis  in  James 


rii  If  onarcliT 
of  Portonl, 
n  the  Atl^ 


Howell's  quuot  and  amonng  FamSigr  Letter* 
a  book  (^  whidi  we  ought  to  nave  a  nq^t : - 

"  In  Philip  the  SMond's  time, 
cams  to  ila  bicbot  curotda  bj  the 
wharcbj  the  Eaat-Indiea,  nuidiy  lalanda  in  tl  . 
tkk  Sei,  and  divers  Plans  in  Barbaij  were  added  U 
Crown  of  Spain.  Bj  Umss  atqw  tUs  Crown  OBa  to  uua 
Grandeur,  and  tralj'  give  the  ^laniard  hia  Due,  be  ia  a 
mighty  Honareh,  he  hath  Domlntoiis  ia  all  Parts  of  tlte 
Worid  (which  none  oT  the  taai  Honarchiee  had)  both  in 
Europe  Ana,  Africa,  and  America  (which  be  hath  saleir 
to  himaelf }  thoogh  onr  Heniy  the  Savcmth  had  tike  ftnt 
Profibr  made  him :  so  itie  Sun  shines  sU  Uie  foot  and 
twcntj  hoars  of  the  nataral  Da}'  upoo  some  part  or  other 
of  hie  Coontrev ;  for  part  of  the  Antipodca  an  mtriect  (i> 
him."— Eightfi  Edition,  1718,  p.  1*2. 

As  the  letter  from  which  this  is  taken  wu 
vnitten  in  1633,  Uowell  applied  the  same  idea  to 
the  same  monarchy  as  did  TuUer  nearly  twenty 
years  later. 

What  is  the  word  cumUs  in  the  second  Une  ? 

It  is  not  recorded  by  Johnson,  Richardson,  Ogilvie, 

or  Nares.    It  is  perhaps  from  die  Latin  ctmnUM. 

J.  T.  P. 

Cheltenham  Librarv. 

fHoirsU's  Familiar  Ltlltrt  are  announced  in  Ht.  Ar- 
beri  repiiats, — Curable  (Lat  cnuAu  =  heap),  sgaifies 
crowning  io  ita  architectural  seoae ;  Ui«  pimuicle.] 

The  following  passage  occurs  in  a  very  able  and 

interesting  book  of  transatlantic  origin : — 

"  Ancient  Rome,  whose  name  is  the  snion}'m  of  re- 
ristlesi  power  and  bouodleas  coDiaest,  coud  not,  in  the 
palmj  dsj^s  of  her  Caesars,  vie  with  Great  Britain  in  the 
extent  of  her  poeseeeione  and  the  strength  of  her  re- 
sources. Hair  ■  century  ago,  her  great  rtitrsman, 
skMcbing  the  reeourcea  of  her  leniloty,  said.  •  The  King 


of  England. 

Americaa  orator,  of  kindred  genius,  unfolded  the  same 

idea  in  language  which  sparkles  with    '  ~ 

vescance  of  poetic  besnlj,  when  he  spoke 

power,  whose  morning  drnm-beat,  followii.^ 

keeping  company  with  the  bonn,  enoirclea  the  earth  daily 

-fUB  or "-- -■"    -'^--•- — '-  -'  -■■ ■"■ 


red  genius, 
3  which  sparkles  with  the  vny  effer- 
poke  of  her  u  "'    ' 
ning  dr 
wi&tli 

>ul  and  unbroken  strain  of  the  martial 
airs  of  EagUnd.'"— SiidftM  of  Reform  oiuf  Stferma* 
of  Ortal  Brilai»  and  Irttiad,  by  Henry  B.  Stanton, 
Svo,  Dublin,  1860,  page  18. 

A  similar  sentiment  will  be  found  to  pervade  a 
noble  and  spirit-stirring  poem  on  the  "English 
Languwe,"  ^Iso  by  an  American  writer,  the  Rer. 
James  Oilbome  Lyons,  LL.D.,  of  Philadelphia: — 
"It  kindles  realms  so  far  apart, 
That,  while  its  praise  yon  sing. 
That  may  be  clad  with  autumn's  frails, 
And  Oof  with  Sowers  of  spriag: 
"  It  quickens  lands  whose  meteor  light* 
Flame  in  an  Arctic  sky. 
And  lands  fbr  which  the  Southern  Croat 
Hsngs  Its  orbed  Area  on  lilgh,"  &e. 
These  fine  versee  were  republished  some  years 
ago  in  Chambers's  EdinlMrgh  Joannd,  whence  I 
transcribed  them  ;  but  I  have  not,  unfortunately, 


4<>'8.VII.  Jo«3,'71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Chabhb  pok  Agce  (4*^  8.  tu.  443.) — A  reT; 
tespectable  eccleuEtstic  ouce  told  me  the  following 
fact,  which  had  occurred  within  his  own  eine- 
rience.  Having  learned  from  a  young  person  that 
she  had  been  subject  to  the  ague,  bat  had  never 
had  any  return  of  it  since  she  had  worn  a  apell 
fbr  ita  cure,  he  explained  to  her  the  sinful 
nature  of  all  such  superstitions,  and  advised  her 
to  pat  awaj  the  spell.  For  a  long  time  she  de- 
clined, slleginK  that  if  she  removed  it  from  her 
neck,  or  opened  it^  she  should  have  a  return  of  the 
ague.  At  length,  however,  she  pelded  to  the 
priest's  exhortation,  took  off  the  apell,  and  handed 
it  to  him.  It  was  a  small  paper,  sealed  up. 
He  opened  it,  and  read  ita  contents  to  her,  aa 
follows :  — 


"There,"  aud  he,  "how  do  you  like  tha  bar- 
gainf"  The  poor  young  woman  was  horrified, 
and  declared  her  decided  preference  for  the  return 
of  her  maladv.  I  knew  a  similar  instance  of  a 
apell  fbr  the  head'ache  which,  on  being  opened, 
presented  the  following  pleasant  arrangement :  — 
"  Good  devil,  cure  har, 
And  take  her  for  vonr  uim." 

F.  C.  H. 
UsuawsTo  Fbohb  (4'*  S,  vlL  408.) — There 
are  certainlr  manj  pictorial  repreaentations  of 
the  temptationa  of  St.  Anthony,  with  devUs  of  all 
shapes  and  in  the  most  groteaque  attitudes,  but 
many  other  sunts  have  bMn  painl«d  with  demons 
annoying  them  in  various  ways.  I  have  Beveral 
old  engravings  of  such  subjects.  Among  them  is 
one  of  St.  Gnthlake,  surrounded  by  evil  spirits  in 
the  shape  of  a  cow  with  the  trunk  of  an  elephant, 
a  monster  in  scaly  armour  blowing  a  horn,  and 
other  figures  quite  indescribable ;  but  an  Anrel 
fltands  by  to  protect  and  encourage  him.  Another 
represents  St.  Elphege  coming  out  of  his  cell  at 
night  with  a  lantern,  alarmed  b^  the  cries  of  one  of 
his  monks  whom  a  party  of  devils  are  scoo^ng  to 
death  for  having  disregarded  the  holy  man's  ad- 
monitions. St.  Juan  of  Dslmatda  is  depicted  in 
another  with  infernal  monateta  of  most  terrific 
forms  about  him.  One  tries  to  tear  his  back  with 
a  frightful  double  hook ;  another  blows  a  horn  in 
his  ears ;  a  third  mocka  him  at  bis  prayers,  and  a 
fourth  is  about  to  hurl  down  upon  him  a  huge 
fragment  of  a  rock.  The  saint,  however,  remains 
nnmoved,  and  defeats  all  their  attacks  by  recur- 
ring to  his  cmcified  Saviour : — 

"  TsTtsnis  inscBM  ferie,  qnss  nthen  miisa 

Espullt,— at  pellit  crux  mda  conctsr- enjoe." 
I  will  describe  one  more.  It  represents  the 
cells  of  SL  Peter  Celestin  and  his  monks  in  the 
deaert,  set  on  fire  by  exalting  devils,  who  are 
grioniDg  through  the  windows  and  from  the  top 
of  the  roof  at  the  saint  and  two  monks  who  have 


made  their  escape.  The  saint  by  his  prayers 
obtains  the  extinction  of  the  flames  and  the  flight 
of  the  demons: — 


The  mezzotinto  prints  described  by  J.  O.  cannot 
both  represent  the  temptationB  of  St.  Anthony,  as 
in  No.  2  the  principal  ngTire  is  a  female.  Nor  do 
I  think  that  either  of  them  refers  to  any  saint  in 
particular,  but  that  each  is  emblematinil  of  the 
temptations  and  trials  of  the  Christian's  warfare. 
The  figure  in  No.  1  appears  to  defeat  his  enemies 
by  prayer ;  and  that  in  No.  2  holds  up  against  her 
assailants  the  txoord  of  the  ^irit,  which  St.  Paul 
says  is  the  word  of  God  (Ephes,  vi.  17),  and  her 
baaket  and  apron  fiill  of  proTisiong  would  seem  to 
indicate  the  efficacy  of  charity  and  alms  deeds 
against  the  potceri  of  darktuat  and  IhemriU  of 
wichedMU.  F.  C.  H. 

The  Whitb  Towbb  o?  Loimoif  (4*  8.  vii.  211, 
309,  S94.)  — On  p.  809  it  U  stated  "it  seems 
admitted  that  He  (Qundulph)  builtr  Bocheater 
Castle."  This  is  a  point  not  at  all  admitted  W 
many  antiquaries.  If  your  correspondent  will 
refer  to  Rev.  C.  H.  Hartshome's  paper  on  Ouq- 
dulph  in  the  volume  for  1863  of  the  Journal  of 
the  Archaotoffical  ImtUaU,  he  will  find  some  in- 
teresting passages  on  the  question. 

As  regwds  the  White  Tower^the  passage  in  the 
Textiu  jRoffemu,  as  printed  by  Heanie  (8vo,  Lon- 
don, 1720)  in  connection  with  Qnndulph's  name, 
is  "ex  procepto  regis  Willelmi  magm,  prtteeset 
ojperi  niBgns9  turris  Londonis9."  These  two  ques- 
tions have  been  conndered  by  your  esteemed  cor- 
respondent the  late  A.  A.  in  the  Dictionary  of 
Architecture  of  the  Architectural  Publication 
Society.  W.  P. 

[In  our  8<^  S.  iv.  831,  wQl  be  found  ■  paper  on  "  Bishop 
GnndnlT  and  liis  ArcbitectnTe.") 

SuBiTAHn  OP  Officials  (4*  S,  vii.  406.) — It 
is  much  to  be  regretted  that  S.  ^d  not  give  the 
Christian  names  of  the  officials.  They  might  lead 
to  the  identity  of  families.  P. 

HmasUHc  (4"-  S.  viL  409.)— In  reply  to  W.  M. 
H.  C.  I  ap[seheud  that  the  junior  branch  has  no 
right  to  alter  ita  own  bearings,  marks  of  cadencr, 
&i:.,  or  to  adopt  additional  quarteringa,  nnleas  it 
can  show  that  it  inherits  the  blood  of  the  heir- 
esses who  brought  such  quarterings.  In  all  such 
cases  it  is  usual  to  seek  an  intermarriage— for 
most  lines  leave  female  issue  of  some  kind. 

If  it  be  clearly  proved  that  there  is  not  even 
female  issue,  the  armorial  bearing  would  most 
probably  be  assumed  by  the  chief  inheritor  of  the  * 
estates,  who  in  each  case  would  adopt  the  family 
name  also.  I^^ 


484 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'>>S.YII.Jl-bb3. 


a^XBB,  IsLB  OF  Man  (4«  S.  vil  409.)  — "A. 
Court  hcJden  betwixt  tlie  gates."  Without  an^ 
fact  to  guide  to  a  conclusion,  I  would  Bug^ieat  m  s 
poudble  explanatioii  the  None  wotd  gata,  a  Ktad 
or  way.  VeniBOular  Sootch,  gate,  gaet,  gLt= 
road,  waT,  street.  "A  Court  of  all  the  Commooa 
of  Hsa  -a&y  have  been,  aod  piobably  waSt  an 
opeq-vut  aaveinblage  held  between  certwi  roada 
neat  to  the  Caatle  of  Rosban,  but  tJiia  on  mj  mrt 
ia  wtiieljr  oonjectural.  J.  Cs.  B< 

The  Asa,  fob  Mam's  ammal  NinraB  (4*  S. 
tU.  480.)  — Not  burlegque  preachers,  hut  grafe 
divines  and  holy  fathers  of  the  church  have  oRen 
Bpobeo  of  our  animsl  nature  as  of  a  beaat  The 
moat  remarkable  inBtanoe  is  that  of  St.  Bernard, 
who  flourished  in  the  twelfth  century.  He  ap- 
jjies  the  words  of  Abraham  to  his  servaota  (Oen. 
zxii  6)  in  a  manner  both  ingeniaus  and  editing;. 
Speaking  of  the  preparation  wa  ought  to  make  for 
pmyer,  the  holy  father  alludes  to  Abraham  saying 
to  his  young  men ;  "  Stay  you  here  with  the  om  ; 
.  .  .  titez  we  have  worshipped,  we  will  return  to 
yoa  " :  and  he  goes  on  thus : — 

"  When  yoQ  come  to  the  chureb,  Uy  jeor  haod  upon 
joar  moatb,  and  say:  sta;  yoa  hers,  evil  thoaghU,  io- 
untiana,  and  affccliona  of  the  heart,  and  cirnal  doirea : 
bat  Ihoa,  119  loid,  enur  into  the  toy  of  thy  Lord,  that 
tlioa  msyet  see  the  will  of  God,  and  riait  bia  temple." 

F.c.a 

"A  MONSHFB,   MOHfltBCK"  (4*  S.   yij.   138, 

311.) — As  M.  FRAiKHsatrB-MiCHBL  rightly  says, 
the  word  miwwimr,  pronounced  mmiwuby  the  Gas- 
cons and  Proren^sux,  is. frequently  given  to  the 
cabin-boy  by  his  fellow-Bailors,  playing  on  his 
name  in  French,  nuHuse. 

This  reminds  me  that  the  same  epithet,  in 
English  "  sir,"  used  frequently  to  be  applied,  at 
the  beginning  of  the  present  century,  by  young 
naval  officers  speakingto  their  men,  thus:  "Isay, 
TOn  sir,"  which  wsa  strictly  forbidden  in  the  fleet 
by  Lord  CoUiogwood— that  fine  type  of  a  true 
MBtlemao,  a  good  Christian,  and  a  great  captain. 
One  cannot  niad  his  Memoin  atul  Comtpondenix 
without  loving  bim,  although  an  enemy.  I  dare 
not  say  as  much  with  regard  to  Nelson,  "  thi 
sinew  and  the  forehand  of  your  host"    P.  A.  U 

A  ToAlMTOMX  Bine  (4,'^  .S.  lii.  324,  390.)— 
Under  the  name  of  "  Crapaudine "  several  an- 
swers wiU  be  found  ("N.  &  Q."  3^  S.  iv.  351, 
433, 443.)  I  took  much  interest  in  the  subject 
then,  and  collected  all  the  information  I  could, 
which  was  printed  (3""  S.  t.  142.^  1  hayo  no 
doubt  that  the  toadstoite  has,  received  its  name 
&om  it  being  of  the  colour  of  the  toad ;  and  the 
reason  why  any  stone  should  be  named  from  the 
toad  because  it  resembles  it  in  colour,  any  more 
than  a  greenish  stone  should  be  called  a  frogstone, 
is  because  of  the  old  saving  that  "  the  load  had 
ajewel  in  its  head,"  whicn  I  consider  to  be  synony- 


moua  with  "tlie  Dent  is  not  so  hUek  aa  he  is 
painted." ;  foi  even  the  (repented)  poisonous  and 
hideous  reptile  the  toad  has  some  reheving  point — 
look  at  the  beau^  of  its  eye. 

It  would  be  an  interesting  thing  to  find  out  if 
all,toadstenes  are  of  the  some  material  I  ezjmet 
some  are  plasmas,  some  olivines  (more  especially 
if  aligbtly  amygdaloidol),  or  even  felspatnic  poi^ 
phyrie8,some  of  which  an  very  bard.  H.  S.  C.s^a 
his  stone  has  been  in  the  possesnon  of  his  famuj 
for  man;  eenerations,  and  J.  (3''  S.  iv.  301)  in 
his  query  anout  crapmdina  takes  the  name  out  of 
a  list  of  family  jewels  bequeathed  some  180  yean 
ago.  So  both  the  loadstones  are  old,  and  I  oava 
no  doubt  the  name  was  used  when  it  was  imaKined 
that  the  toad  had  a  real  stone  in  his  nead. 
Another  idea  occurs  to  me.  The  name  may  hare 
been  given  to  stoneB  having  iridescence  or  radiat- 
ing  light,  like  an  eye.  Has  H.  S.  C.'s  any  such 
properties,  for  I  find  the  stone  crapaudine  defined 
"  une  sardoioe  ceillde  "  P  Nbphkitb. 

I  believe  the  tne  toadatone,  onoe  so  highly 
priced  as  an  amulet,  waa  the  fossil  palatal  tootD, 
or  irasubly  sometimes  tiie  dorstd  tubercle  of  some 
species  of  shark  or  ray.  These  teeth  as  found  in 
the  oolite,  and  espedally  in  the  Stones^cld  elate, 
have  luiually  a  rich  brown  colour,  and  the  high 
polish  of  their  enamel  is  as  perfect  as  when  recent 
They  are  called  bafortitet  by  lie  old  writers  on 
natural  history,  and  in  the  days  when  their  origin 
waa  unknown  must  have  struck  people  as  very 
Strang  objects  indeed.  The  toad  was  sunfkOKa 
to  void  them  when  placed  on  a  red  cloth,  but  as 
they  passed  from  hand  to  hand  then-  autbanttei^ 
was  sometimes  called  in  question,  however  the  test 
was  easy  of  application.  In  One  Thouiond  Notable 
Things  we  are  directed  to  set  a  doubtful  craptm^ite 
before  a  living  toad,  who  will  diera^aid  it  if  a 
forgery,  but  endeavour  to  seize  it  if  genuine: 
"  for  ne  envieth  much  that  man  should  have 
that  stone."  When  of  a  circular  and  button-like 
form  these  teeth  were  obviously  well  adapted 
for  setting;  but  I  remember  seeing  in  Lady  Lon- 
deaborou^'s  fine  collection  a  remarkabje  ring 
containing  a  la^e  corrugated  palatal  tooth  raf 
ptychoduB,  which  must  have  been  rather  awkward 
to  wear.  This  fossil  was  derived  from  tiie  chalk. 
W.  J.  Bbrkkakd  SmtH. 

Temple. 

Earn  AS  AK  AsTioLB  OB  Food  (4**  S.  vU.  409.) 
Bendes  the  text  referred  to  in  the  Editor's  re|Jy 
to  this  query  (Luke  xi.  12),  there  is  only  one 

passage  in  the  Holy  Scriptures  in  which  e^Hs  ore 
spoken  of  as  things  eaten,  and  that  is  in  Isa.  ux,  6 : 
"He  that  shall  eat  of  their  e^rs  shall  die."  It 
is  well  known  that  the  Romans  usually  began 
their  principal  meal  with  eggs :  hence  the  words  of 
Horace, "  Ab  ovo  usque  od  mala  citoret "  (Sat  i.  3.) 
And  in  his  Satire  ii.  4,  his  friend  Catius  begins  Us 


»  S.  TIL  JuKB  8,  '71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


/  the  MqnintM  for  &  good  diaooi  l 

rMommending  lon^haped  ^^ntlier  tbu  khid 
ones,  u  hettg  Bweetor  wd  ntoro  nnbritaona  :— 
"  Longs  qnlbiu  bde*  ovU  erit,  till  m«mento, 
Dt  nicei  melioris  et  nt  nuigii  alnu  rotondu, 
Ponarv:  Dunqae  maraai  cofaibaat  olloMi  TitellnoL" 

Cicero  also  apeaks  of  derouring  eggs  with  eager 
appetite ; — 

"  Integrum  fhmem  ad  avnm  aArTo." 

Lib.  IX.  ad  Famil.  «p.  XX. 

f^earv  meDtions  in  his  Mmmeri  of_  tha  ItradHa, 
S  xii.,  tAat  the  E^tians  in  the  times  of  their 
purifications  sbetamed  even  ftom  eggs,  which  oC 
course  implies  that  they  eat  tbem  at  other  times. 

Eggs  m  mentioned  seven  times  in  the  Bihle, 
the  most  ancient  bwig  that  of  Job  vi.  6,  "Is  there 
aav  taste  in  the  white  of  an  egg  F  "  J.  D. 

StTHtham,  S.W. 

"  Whothbr  or  bo  "  (4*  S.  vii.  143,  288,  S78.) 
The  corespondents  who  write  in  support  of  this 
cipiesaian  in  preference  to  "  whether  or  not " 
seem  to  miss  uie  reason  of  the  objection  origin. 
nllv  urged  against  "  whether  or  no  "  being  nsed 
inmscriminatelj.  An  elliptical  expreetdon  cannot 
he  correct  if  the  gape  will  not  bear  filling  up ;  for 
instance,  "whether welcome  or  not,"  is  the  proper 
expreasioQ;  and  the  [absurdity  as  well  as  mcor- 
,  rectness  of  the  other  mode  of  expreeeion  becomes 
obvious  when  the  sentence  is  completed  or  the 
gap  left  after  "no  "  filled  up. 

Some  of  the  defenders  of  "whether  or  no" 
give  ezfunplea  of  sentences  quite  diffecentlj  con- 
sbvcted,  such  as  the  foUowinj^,  which  is  correct : — 
"Whether  his  oath  can  bind  him,  yea  or  no." 
This  is  the  same  as  eajing  "  whether  is  itj  yea  or 
nay  f  "  the  propriety  of  which  is  not  disputed. 
At  the  same  time  I  may  say,  that  I  should  not 
consider  either  the  Eible  or  Shahe^are  good 
authority  for  correct  modem  English. 

M.  A.  B. 

The  following  passage  from  The  WitUer'i  TaU, 
Act  I.  8c.  2,  seems  to  be  in  point : — 

Vnmkc  ttae  oonrt :  to  da't,  or  ik^  la  eattain 
To  me  a  bnak-ucck.*' 

WlLLIAK  WlOKHlM. 

Thoksow  a  Dbuid  (4'»  S.  viL  97,  3Sfi,  401.)— 
Hia,  Barbauld  calls  in  question  the  proprie^  of 
this  epithet : — 

"  There  ii  no  jiroprlety  hi  esDiiig  Thomson  ■  DmJd  or 
a  pflgrlm,  ebsracttn  totally  Ihnign  to  his  own.  To  the 
ssngmaaiy  and  ■apentitloDa  Druid  11  was  paonllaily  1b- 
proMT  to  ooinpars  a  poet  wboae  rtllgion  was  limpla  aa 
bnch,  Hihllia*  u  Dstnr*,  and  llbaral  as  the  ^rit  Of  phi- 
loa»pliy.''~£'u>)r,  p.  IB. 

Upon  this,  the  most  able  editor  of  Collins,  the 
Kev.  Alexander  Byce,  has  the  foUowing  comr 


texprndoa 
J  Worht  of 


\.  t  The  Dmida  paaed  their  ixf 
aah  tmaam  IlioiDaDD  dalightad  in, 
■ibed ;  heDc«  ha  Is  called  a  Dnild. 
woodlaed  pilgrim '  Is  a  beautUU 
*  a  waednvr  amonf;  woodlands '  i  " 
,kt  of  OHlin,  Svo,  1837,  p.  193. 

Confer  Thomas  Warton's  Knee : — 
"  Or  Dmld  priests,  sprinkled  wilb  hnmsn  goie, 
TiDght  nJd  thy  maaay  maaa  tbalr  mjatio  lors." 

"Sooeet  written  at  Stonghmga"  {PotHoil 
WotU,  b7  Msot,  180S,  ii.  116.) 

WtTiLTAK  TIatm. 
Birmingham.  , 

Altar  Sub  nr  Norwich  Catsbdkai.  (4*  S. 
vii  860,  399.)— The  slab  mentioned  by  W.  H.  8. 
as  having  been  found  in  the  chapel  of  the  Blessed 
Jesus  in  the  cathedral  of  Norwich  is  no  doubt 
the  menea  of  an  altar.  The  piece  of  marble  near 
the  centre  no  doubt  covers  the  sepulchrum  or  cavity 
made  to  receive  a  box  which  should  contain 
relics,  three  grains  of  incense  and  a  parchment 
scroll,  on  which  should  be  written — (1)  what 
relics  are  enclosed,  (2)  the  name  of  the  smnt  in 
whose  hoBour  the  altar  is  dedicated,  (3)  the  name 
of  Uie  consecralor,  (4)  what  indulgence  the  Pope 
baa  granted  for  the  annivenary  of  the  day  of  ooa- 
aecration,  (6)  the  day,  month,  and  year  of  the  cm- 
eecration. 

These  particulars  axe  taken  from  the  rubrics  of 
the  office  "  De  Altaris  Consecratione  que  fit  uue 
ecclesiffi  dedications  "  in  the  PoMffieaU  EomanMn 
of  the  time  of  Pope  Pius  IV. 

Many  altar  slabs  may  be  seen  without  thia 
sepulcbrum;  in  those  cases  it  is  probable  that  ii 


found  in  the  Pattifioalt,  in  which  that  case  is  pro- 
vided for. 

The  earliest  instance  which  I  have  noticed  in 
which  a  aepulohrum  exists  in  the  mensa  is  in  an 
altM  in  the  baptistery  at  Ratisbon  ;  probably  of 
the  twelfth  oentury  —  ponibly  of  the  eleventh 
century.  In  eariier  altars,  as  of  the  sixth  and 
ninth  centuries,  there  is  no  trace  of  such  a  CkTily. 
It  is  uncertain  when  the  practice  of  insertinK 
relics  in  altars  became  obligatory.  Moroni  (Dit.  ai 
Emdizione  Etxiaiattico-Storico)  remarks  that  the 
rubrics  of  some  ancient  rituals  make  provision  for 
the  case  in  which  no  relics  were  placed  in  an  alttr 
about  to  be  consecrated.  A.  N. 

Eholish  Descsft  of  Dahiel  O'Comrxu  (4*^ 
S.iii.75;  yii.342,349,  444)— An  Irishkah  telle 
the  truth,  but  he  does  not  tell  the  whole  truth. 
Ferguson  does  ssj  in  re^rd  to  the  sis  persons  named 
Sonail,  mentiooed  in  L/mStdTnabdk,  that  "  one  of 
I  certainly  was  from  Ireland '' ;  but  he  also 
says,  which  An  Ikibhvah  has  seen  fit  to  supprase, 
that  this  individual  "  appears  to  have  been  moat 
probably  one  of  the  Nortiimen  who  hod  settled 
there,  as  both  his  wife  and  ami  hare  Scaodiuavian    '^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


H<^S.Vll.lvmK»,'n. 


namea.  All  the  oUian,"  faecoatinnes,  "saem  from 
the  nftmea  of  tbeii  pusnts  to  have  been  pore 
Nonemen."  It  i«  not  bj  such  shifia  that  the 
dogniA  of  CeltidBm  u  to  M  suatained.       Bilbo. 

ELEVBN-SHiLLiita  FiBCBB  09  Chablbs  L  (4*^ 
S.  Tii.  65,  148.  44S.)— I  ma;  be  permitted  to  in- 
form W.  B.  that  MiKela  wen  first  coined  in  Eng- 
land by  EdwKd  IV.  about  the  year  1466.  They 
wen  so  termed  irom  the  desJEii  on  the  obverse, 
which  was  the  archangel  Mii^el  standing  with 
his  left  foot  upon  the  dragon,  and  piercing  him 
through  the  mouth  vrith  a  gpear.  They  each 
weighed  eighty  gruns  of  nearly  fine  goM,  and 
were  at  first  current  for  six  ahlUings  and  eight- 
pence.  Eveiy  succeeding  sovereign  continaed 
their  issue  unUl  Charles  I.,  who  wa£  the  last  who 
coined  angels.  They  were  then  current  for  ten 
shilling  and  only  weighed  sixty-four  grains  and 
a  fraction.  Hkrsi  W.  HKNmx. 

HarUuoi  Hoon,  Brighton. 

BuBFP  OR  BoBT  (4*^  S.  TiL  S82,  379,  445.) — 
This  word  may  be  derived  from  A.-S.  btmrw, 
which  is  variously  rendered  "a  barrow,  a  high 
or  hilly  place,  a  wood,  grove,  bill  covered  with 
wood."  Oonf.  Barf  (in  Bode  Sarve),  near  Bever- 
ley.  R.  3.  UKAxnoac. 

Gray's  Inn. 

COKOBIVI  AND  WiCHBRLXT  (4*^  3.  VlL  801.) 

Mb.  Haik  Fbiswzll  ^ves  a  sentiment  to  Con- 
neve  that  belonn  to  Wychetley,  who  vmrte  the 
~    "w.    The  iteuHe  Dwfcr  WM  written  by 


rtain  2kal»r. 

Congre' 


O.  E. 


"  3T&X1K  or  SiLTXB  Sba  "  ( 41^  S.  vii  390, 446.) 
The  quotation,  "  stieak  of  nlver  sea,"  concening 
which  your  correspondent  A.  3.  inquires,  «nd 
which  Lord  SalisbuW  was  reported  as  taking  from 
a  lecture  by  Colonel  Checney,  was  plainly  bor- 
rowed of  a  purpose  by  tlie  latter  from  the  eulogy 
of  England  m  tne  famous  Oladatooe  article  of  last 
October's  Edinburgh  Bevuno,  p.  68a  In  Colonel 
Cheaney'f  printed  lecture  it  appears  between 
commas,  as  a  quotation  should  be.  R.  £, 

Thoiub  Babkekvillb  (4*^  S.  -ra.  429.)  —  If 
your  corrMpondent  means  Join  Baakerville,  the 

C'  iter,  who  was  also  an  inventor  and  a  patentee, 
will  find  a  portrait  in  hir.  Woodcraft's  collec- 
tion at  the  Patent  Office,  26,  SouthamMon  Build- 
ings. May  I  ask  what  O.  C.'s  T^lonui*  Easkerville 
invented  f  B.  B.  P. 

Ibibh  LEaioiTAKns  n  Rio  sx  JAiraiBO  (4*^  S. 
vii.  403.)— Hb.  MaoCabb  will  find  a  full  and 
ver]r  puiuQl  accotmt  of  the  treatment  of  the  Irish 
Legion  in  Braiil  in  Armitwe's  Biitory  of  Braxii, 
2  vols.  Bto,  183a  W. 

Brass  nt  Bosiov  Chitbch  (4*^  S.  vii.  405.) — 
W.  E.  B.  says  that  the  brass  at  Boston  is  for 
"BichardBoUeofHaughrWhodiedlSOL"  Bu^ 


in  his  JSxtMct  Banmateiet,  gives  this  Itichard  ms 
the  husband  of  Isabel  (Elizabeth)  Nanfan,  spell- 
ing the  name  in  error  Nan«nt.  But  in  the  Bos- 
ton brass  Nanfan  occurs  as  a  quartering.  This 
might  not  prove  that  the  brass  was  not  Sat 
Richard  Bolle.  But  what  are  the  quarterings 
after  10.  Coleshill  P  No.  8  is  Nanfan,  not  of  Devon 
but  of  Cornwall,  or  Birts-Mortou,  Worcesteiahire, 
to  which  place  the  Nanfans  migrated.  No.  9  is 
Penpons.  No.  10  is  Coleshill,  es  mven  by  W.  Eu  B. 
Theae  two,  Penpons  and  Coleshill,  are  Naafan 
quorterings.  No.  12  certunlymight  be  £ 
or  Trecarrel;  the  martlet  being  ' 
But  what  are  the  others  ?  Not,  I 
ings  of  Nanfan. 

The  lady  is,  I  think,  buried  at  Birts-Hortom. 
In  that  church  still  exists  an  nnuenally  cnrions 
altar  tomb,  moved  from  its  place  nnd  mutilated 
as  usuaL  Habington  gives  an  account  of  it  in  hia 
MS.,  now  in  the  possession  of  Lord  Ltttxltok. 
I  have  copied  his  account,  and  have  it  before  me. 
It  is  not  eveiT where  quite  correct;  but  hf  gives 
things  which  have  now  perished.  I  read  a  memoir 
of  it  at  the  tomb,  some  time  ago,  to  a  few  frienda, 
among  them  the  present  rector;  and  I  should  like 
to  be  allowed  to  give  a  note  on  the  mil^ect  some 
da^  in  "  N.  &  Q.**^;  but  the  detail  is  too  Imig  iat 
this  reply. 

It  is  enough  to  say  here  that  Habington  men- 
tions her,  and  that  her  figure  is  still  to  be  seen. 


"Amnl 
I  di«aett, 


lett,  &wi7tt<n 


prayiDEB,  w< 
m  MabMli 


Hi  her  batt  tmned  bd  u 
BoUya,  aistei  to  t&m 


None  of  diese  words  are  now  to  be  seen.    The 

"both"  refen  to  John  and  lUchaid  Nanfan  her 

brothers,  John  Nanfaa  being  of  Birts-Uorton  Court. 

D.P. 

Sburts  Lodge,  Mslnra  Weill. 

The  Loires  of  Wbaxall  (4<^  S.  viL  423.)— 
Mr.  Jobm  saya  (p.  425)  — 

"  there  wu  a  oUae  la  WrauD  caned  Berler's  (or  Bar- 
lay'a)  Court,  which,  according  to  Canon  Jackioo,  pimnl 
to  Blunt  and  then  to  Hnasey." 

The  coincidence  of  these  names  suggests  the  pos- 
ribility  of  a  connection  with  Verdon :  for  Margeir, 
the  youngest  of  the  three  daughters  of  Theobald 
de  Verdon,  by  his  first  wife  Mande  Mortimer, 
married,  fimt  (before  June  17, 1327)  William  la 
Blunt ;  secondly,  Mark  Husee  (who  died  v.  p., 
that  is,  before  July  23,  1349) ;  and  thirdly,  John 
CropbulL  She  left  issue,  by  her  second  manisge 
at  least.  I  offer  this  suggestion  tat  what  it  may 
be  found  worth.  HKBXBnxiTOX. 

Thb  Cos  Fiihsbt  as  NxwromniLAKD,  ahb  a 
Emslibh  Coxtxrt  n  Frahgi  (4*  3.  viL  430.^ 
The  English  convent  mentioned  in  the  pasnge 
quoted  by  your  ooneewmdent  was  probably  that 
of  the  Viaitalion  of  St  Marie  of  Chmllot,  fotmdod 


iaaVII.  Jubb8,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


b7  Henrietta  Muio,  Qneen  of  Charlet  I.  Her 
dftagbter  Henrietta  Anne  was  educated  here,  and 
to  ^iB  place  the  unfortunate  queen  letired  when 
OTSrwhelmed  with  ^ef  at  the  low  of  her  hus- 
band. 9he  then  resided  at  the  chateau  of  Go- 
lombe,  and  died  there  Aug.  31.  1669.  Bj  her 
expreBH  wish,  her  heart  was  tauen  to  Chaitlot 
In  the  archiTes  ol  France  is  an  interesting  account 
of  its  receptioD,  written  by  one  of  the  nuns.  It  if 
quoted,  in  Lives  of  the  Queem  of  England  (r.  465). 
Joss  Pie  SOT,  J  vs.,  F.S.A. 


itIitttUsntaut. 


50TE8  0I)  BOOKS,  ETC. 

A»  Bittimeal  Taw  of  LiUratHn  and  Jrt  in  Ortat  Bri- 

tai»,fiviK  0u  Accaiiim  of  lit  Boutt  of  Houomt  to  tA< 

Btigii  of  ttHitu  Yicteria.  £y  J.  HarnrGntbaai,  M.A. 

(LoDgmsos.) 

Tba  author  remarks  tliat  tboogh  an  biaterical  account 
of  ■  nation')  literature  and  art  is  entitled  (o  condderation 
as  an  important  part  of  ita  general  hiatory,  it  has  too 
freqnentif  been  the  practice  in  historical  compodtioas,  if 
not  allogethBi  to  ignore,  at  least  to  treat  lu  a  very  inm- 
uuuy  manner  the  literarj  and  testbetic  development  of 
the  national  thonght  and  taate.  Tba  present  volume  ia 
an  attempt  to  remedj  this  omission,  and  to  faniiBh  a 
short  history  (^literature  and  ait  in  Britain,  as  developed 
In  the  finer  aed  more  popular  forms  dnring  the  most 
recent  period  of  her  annals.  After  a  prelimiDsry  view 
of  the  general  condllion  of  literature  and  art  and  their 

SefeBSDrs  in  Great  Britaiu,  at  the  aceesiiou  of  the 
ouse  of  Hanover,  Hr.  Graham  proceeds  to  consider  the 
atate  of  the  various  brancbes  of  literary  composition  dar- 
Idk  the  period,  and  the  influence  which  the  diflerent 
writers  have  had  upon  public  taste.  In  the  same  manner 
he  examiDea  the  progress  of  architecture,  painting,  and 
scnlptore  in  tiiia  conntiy.  The  book  gives  in  this  way 
just  the  infomuLion  suited  to  those  who 


BDthoritii 


idea  upon  the  subject,  while  the  writer's  ■atEorities 
point  odC  to  those  who  desire  farther  ioformation  tbe 
best  means  of  obtaining  it. 

tSv  Bitlnry  of  Ike  DeoKtra  of  Trigg 

■      '"         11.    BjF  Si  John  Mac- 

Brmard.    (Nicbola  A 


_         ,  ,     .'<*e  DeoKtra    _ 

Jmar,  m  tht  Conty  of  Cbrnwall.    Bf  &i  John  Mac- 
lean, F.8.A.,  &c.    Partlll.    ~ 
Son.) 

We  cangratalaU  the  men  of  Tre,  Pot,  and  Pen,  on  tbe 
steady  prngresB  which  Sir  John  Maclean  is  making  with 
his  history  of  that  interesting  portion  of  their  county, 
the  Deanery  of  Trigg  Minor.  In  the  Put  before  ns, 
which  contains  a  description  of  the  parish  of  St.  Bruered 
aliat  St.  Breward  alua  Simon  Ward,  it  is  treated  with  the 
fnlneis  of  detail,  local,  historical,  and  genealogical,  and 
the  same  endeavour  to  atlale  accuracy  and  completeness 
which  have  chaneteriaed  the  fbrmer  portions  of  tbe 
woA,  and  which  will  enaore  it  a  place  m  the  library  of 
all  Cornish  Antiquatiea  and  Topograpbsrs. 

Books  Baoaivan.— .^h  fiasy  oi«  A*  Dntidt,  tit  J»- 
daU  CiurcAa,  imd  Vw  Rimnii  Tantf  of  Inland.  By 
tbe  Bev.  Bicfaaid  Smiddy  (Kelly,  Dublin)  has  claims  to 
atlenUon  as  eontaialng  a  new  theory  of  the  Bonnd 
Tewei*,  by  a  Cdtie  aatiqnary,  who  thinks  it  probable 
that  Celtic  was  the  flnt  language  spoken  by  man.— 73* 
fauioii  Pba  of  tht  Ui^iiaadi  of  Bavaria.  By  Alexan- 
der Craig  SsUar  (Blaekwoed),  reprinted  thim  Black- 


Koott  MagaziM,  will  be  fbnnd  veiy  useful  to  intending 
visitors  Id  Ammargan,  where  the  FaaaiDii  Plav  ii  to  be 
pofltrmed  this  year  aa  June  24  ;  July  3,  9, 16,  96,  30 ; 
Aug.  6,  U,  20,  !7  i  and  Sept.  8,  9,  17,  24.— fe/bm'i  (Jatt 


Bracktei)  Hhatmted  G<adt  to  TuitMdgt  jrtUi,  ^.  Br 
J.  Badtord  Thompson,  HJk.,  ve^  (hll,  and  with  s  couple 
of  good  maps,  which  in  some  degrss  make  ai 


roodcnts.— 37u  Daiiteratmm ;  or,  EUetri- 
city  madt  Plaai  and  Ctftd  bg  a  Lovtr  ofMaiMiid  taul 
ofOonmnn  Saut  (Ballliere).  This  ia  a  reprint  of  the 
remarluble  tract  on  Curative  Electricity  written  by  John 
Wealfly,  1759,  and  which,  like  bis  little  pamphlet  on 
Cold  Water  as  u  mesns  of  health,  shows  that  he  was  as 
interested  in  the  phyaical  as  in  the  moral  improvement 
of  his  fkllow-crestDrea. 


for  schDol  poiposes,  the  first  otject  being  die  erectian  o: 
a  Speech  Boom,  with  an  architectural  devstion  worthy 
of  its  splendid  neighbours,  the  Chaptd  and  Tanghsa  Li- 
brary. It  is  calculated  that  not  leai  than  80,0001.  will 
be  required  to  cany  out  all  tbe  objecta  in  view;  and  the 
first  list  of  subscriptions,  containing  two  doDBtions  of 
1,000^  each,  affoids  good  reason  for  believing  that  old 
Harrovians  wiU  not  allow  the  committee  lo  lack  the 
means  necessary  for  carrying  out  so  laudsble  an  object 

Da.  DUllinoeb. — In  a  convocation  to  be  holden  at 
Oxford  on  Tuesday,  it  will  be  proposed  that  tba  dq^ree 
of  D.C.T..  be  granted  by  diploma  to  Dr.  Jos^ih  John  Ig- 
natius von  DOllinger. 

St.  Albas'b  Annar.— On  March  11  we  called  atteu- 
..3n  lo  the  measures  in  coDlempletlou  for  the  preservation 
of  St.  Alban's  Abbey.  We  are  now  glad  to  annoonee 
that  a  public  meeting  will  be  held  at  Willis's  Booms  on 
Thursday,  Jnne  22,  for  the  purpose  of  conddering  the 
steps  lo  be  taken  for  raising  46,000/.  required  tbr  this 
lurpoae.  The  £srl  of  Temlam  will  preside,  and  we  hope 
le  will  be  anpported  in  bis  laudsble  endeavour  to  pie- 
erve  one  of  the  most  importsat  of  out  ardutectnral 
moDuments. 

Tbb  aeoend  vdtmie  of  Lord  Btongham's  aatobiogta- 
pby  will  abortly  appear.  Tbe  narrative  will  extend  to 
tbe  passing  of  tbe  Cstholic  Emancipation  Bill,  and  include 
a  gnat  i»rtion  of  the  afilsirs  of  Queen  Caroline  and  her 

Tbb  death  is  announced,  in  his  ei^ty-fifth  year,  of 
Sit  Oswald  Hosley,  Bart.,  of  Bolleston  Hall,  near  BnrtoD- 
on-Treet,  and  formerly  M.P.  for  North  Stslfiirdshlre.  The 
proximity  of  bis  family  seat  to  Tuthurr  Castle,  one  of 
the  prisons  of  Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  led  nfm  to  turn  his 
attention  to  Its  story,  and  in  1S22  be  pid>liBhed  a  Hittory 
Iff  tht  Cattl*,  Fnoiy,  and  Ibim  of  TVOwy. 

STRASBURa  LiBKABT.  — The  subscriptions  for  the 
Strasburg  library  are,  according  to  tbe  tfaiioiiai  Ztitnngr 
prDgieaahig  so  bvonrably  as  to  promise  to  leave  the  in- 
stitution iM:h,  not  only  in  the  number,  bat  equally  so  In 
tbe  literary  value  of  its  volnmea.  The  eKbrts  mad*  to- 
wards this  object  la  England  are  bteblj  appreciated 
sbrosd.  Moreover,  the  Grsnd  Duke  of  Bsdoi  has  eon- 
tribnted  two  thousand  vdnmas  ftam  his  liteaiy  at  Caris- 
mhe,  and  the  oniveniUes  of  Heldslbeig,  Basl^  Eriangen, 
Qtelbwald,  and  Jena,  and  the  royal  library  at  Btntt^irdt 
have  made  liberal  promises.  Swilierland  Is  Aoiag  its 
best,  and  the  Aoatilan  caidtsl,  though  ■"-■■'—'  ar  - 


e  appreciable  presents  c 


&  to  be  iDCOTpor'tsd.  md  (hat  of  Pivtaior  von  Taogarow, 
In  Heidetbcre.  boa  alreid;  been  pnrchued.  Both  ar« 
ridi  Id  T*lii>ble  law  books  and  maQntcripM,  tlw  latta 

-    -■--  ■      "lo  ftwar  than  3360  TolamM. 


BOOKS   AND   ODD   VOLUMES 

WISIEII  10  PUBCBJlSB. 


JTr,  W.  O.  Hinja,  a.  WcUluUm  Blmt,  Suud. 


A oticrd  to  Corrr^onttnTU. 

OorretpomdenlM  uMo  write  rapeetinff  articltt  which  htm 
not  apptartd  Aoitid  a4att  the  iDbJecta  to  uMch  they  refer. 
We  imaKOt  rtcoittct  K^tmturm  or  ouiulv. 

W.  U.  (Vrirfctwortli.)— fbr  Ou  hitlory  ef  Ikt  naait  of 
"TT-e  HaraoaioiH  BlatskemiU.,"  a/fuMll  -  N.  &  Q."  £•'  8. 


LS66. 

O.  A.  C—Ai  at  tmot  further  CO 
hold  your  resom^. 
J.  a.  Wallkr.— /n  lype. 


KipiA- 


BIBLIOTHECA    AMEBXCANA. 


A  CATALOGUE  of  Fivs  Tliinuvid  Ytdnmes  oT  Booka, 

nlulnf  ta  Uu  lUiUpry  «nd  Gtotfnphj  of  Tf  orth  mid  SoDth  AnwHn 
ef  trtimt  larltr  ox  Lht  Eu-ly  Hljtory  Add  CokmlBliiin  of  tlw  Uplled 


PARTRIDGE    AVD    COOPEK, 

MANUFACTUaiNG  8TATI0NBE8, 
192,  Fleet  Street  (Comer  of  ChanceijLue). 
CASRLLQE  FAID  TO  TBE  COCirrBT  ON  0BDBE8 


PASTRIDGE  AKD  COOPER,  192,  Fleet  Stretf. 
Corner  of  Cbaacery  Lane 

"  "ng  Ijnldoeticn  pf  Noto-pwr  erf  i^nipenQr  liod  hulmcbBCn  tfa 


'OiO  ENGLISH"   FURNITURE. 


COLUNSOIT  and  LOCK  (late  Hoztins), 

CABINET  UAKEB8, 

109,  FLEET  STREET,  E.C    EsUbHahed  1781. 


TAPESTRY  PAPERHANQINQ8. 


109,  FLEET  STREET.  LOKDON.  EsubUibsd  1782. 


TOBNE'3  POMPEIAN    DEC0BATI0N3. 


■1  Aivolii  tiKBl  to  Hb  IWartr  aa  Uat  gf  Hair. 


DIGESTION.— THE_^DICALPROFE3SrOH 


npHE_NEW_  OENTLBKAF8_  GOLD   WATCH, 


"  IHX  OKLT  eOOD  8 

IW  nd  ■MidJmUoa. 
UKRITAUJD  FOR  PIQUAHCT  A. 
L*  for  "XJLA  AND  PDBBXH8'"  SAUCPS. 

BEWARE     OF    [MITATIOHS, 


--■^gSSSi 


d  by  Google 


4*  8.  Vn.  JtWB  10,  Tl.] 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


489 


LOVDO!r,BATUXDAT,  JUKE  IS,  1871. 


CONTENTS^H'  180. 
NOTBS:-Iaii]ni-i  8Mnt  Mid  "Tlu  TIomi"  Bnicnr, 
MS  — NichoUi  Femr'a  Eulogj  dddd  the  Author  of  k- 
ncnmiu/' 490  — The  Bemataut  Thief  —  Anecdote  of  the 
Duke  of  welllDKton  —  what  Cnlioan  — HinnitiT  Hmt- 
Ing  — 'Annie  7wirt«"—Pu«di«*  —  PaHticil  axMoil 
DiUMi  —  Tro*  BniaTBwnt  —  Deflaitbu  af  CdossK  — 
SHed  bj  >  Hih— ChanBor'i  Wio^  4W. 
QrBBlES:  —  A«nlDtMna  —  -AdaiMOtiM  Chrim"  — 
AaonjinaM-' AntiqtuHadianHedienlBMts—  bbt- 
lonluBrMi  — ACMtmtunQueiT  — ClNiMn:  wuriie 
Egntlui  orGreek?-Cottle,tbaFoe(  — L«d  Fillilud, 
Dr.  Donna  and  Sir  Edward  foer-FsngiiuR*  S«(ni— He- 
tion  and  Fact  —  Fire  at  HetbarinKluiB  —  Garrooiu  or 
OuTOOi  —  Glatton  —  Herbert  —  Jnan  de  Uilon  —  Cal, 
OjuI  — JewWi  Marrlae*  Riim- Kalendla-Utunrioal 
OueT;-lIaliMda<ddlan-8frJohaMaN>a-HeiUr(  of 
liiBT  Cmmirell  —  Fudou,  IW  —  Pariib  Beglilers  of 
..^..^^  _  u..^^i —  _  gradtoTt  BeglMor—  Behtee'i 


—  Lord  FalmeratOD'i  Dismissal  fnnn  Office,  4M 

umi  PaintinB  in  SlarsloD  Church,  Norfolli.  tt7  ~  Tba 
.  —.inn  Bell,  4M  —  Bendouoe,  Sfjjgidun,  ic^  lb,  -  The 
Origin  ot  Arahbiahop  BtaSord,  6M —iJurDB :"  BicbC  Oude- 
williB  iTBUcht,"B01— R.P.  BoninMon,  MS-Flag  of  the 
NewGwmaa  Bmirire,SQ3-BritiAS<QrUwdCtaarioU^7». 

—  "  Eugene  Aiam  "  —  LincaahirB  Witches  —  Pope>t  Epi- 
taph OD  Sir  Qodfr^  Endler— On  the  Abaencs  of  an; 
Fi«B0b  Word  Ibr  "  to  Ud«  " — J  BdkiBl  Oatln  —  Crtati — 
George  Ixwdau  —  8t.  Wulhwi  — Gnats  i«-nu  UoHiDltoM 

—  Margaret  Fendlea:  Ladr  Mortimer  -  Dedloaliona  of 
Churcbn  —  Cbildren's  Gimea  —  Sundiab  —  "Anima 
Criati "  —  Deronibire  Words,  ««„  ttti. 

NotM  on  Baoki.  Aa. 


JDNIDS'3   SECRET  AND   "THE   TIMES" 
EETIEWEE. 

As  at  the  present  moment,  when  P&Tltament  b 
in  full  work,  and  the  columns  of  The  Time*  are 
full  to  ovoiflowjng  with  reprta  from  Paris  and 
the  Tichboroe  case,  it  would  tw  vain  to  expect  the 
!Eiditor  to  -  find  room  for  the  diacossioa  of  a  mere 
literary  question,  I  hope  to  be  permitted  to  call  at- 
tention m  "  N.  &  Q."  to  a  pan^ph  in  The  Timet 
review  of  Mr.  Twislotons  intereating  volnme,* 
in  the  hope  that  doiog  lo  will  help  to  clear  ui 
some  double  which  can  acarcelj  fail  to  strike  bucL 
of  jour  readers  as  have  ever  cared  to  look  into  the 
queBtdon  "  Who  was  Joniogp" 

The  paragraph  is  as  follows : — 

"  Mr.  PIU  told  Lord  Abwdeen  (ib*  Um  Premier)  that 
he  and  hia  father  (Lord  Cbstham)  kneir  who  hto1«  the 
Jnnim  Latleni,  and  that  it  was  not  Francis.  Lord  Aber- 
deen repeated  this  stitemenl  to  bis  eon,  the  Hon.  Artiui 
Gordon,  now  Governor  oftbeManritiaB.  The  R^t  Hon. 
Thomas  OreaviBe  tiM  Lad7  Ddasiaie  and  Mies  WilUaiiia 
Wf  nn  (faia  nieces),  and  the  Hob.  Mis.  Rowley  (hi*  grut 
niece),  as  a  matter  of  personal  knowledge,  that  Jnnius 
was  not  one  uf  the  persons  to  wbom  Oie  ktten  had  been 
popolariy  asoibed.  Som  a(Ur  the  imbUeatJoo  of  the 
Diarit,  of  a  Ladg  cf  Qmiitm,  In  which  the  OreoTUles 
■ ' DWmi drf  tha  key.  Lady  Granville 


nt  a  meaage  to  the  editor,  thnragh  Dr.  James  Btxgaaaa 

m  that  Cird  Grenville  told  bcr  be  knaw  who  wrote 

e  Jotiias  Lettars,  and  tbej  were  not  written  hy  FrBncfs." 

The  first  thing  that  must  strike  the  leadar  of 

Ibis  paragraph  is  the  cuiiaua  fact  that  the  myat«~ 

nous  secret  which  Junius  declared  should  die  with 

him  was  /mown  to  no  less  than  four  persons — Lord 

Chatham,  Mr.  Pitt,  the  Hon.  Thomas  GrenviUa, 

«nd  Lord  Orenville. 

But  how  WAB  it  known  to  tbem  P  Waa  it  knows 
in  the  strict  sense  of  the  word  ?  Was  it  ksown 
from  the  information  of  Jsciius  himself,  or  from 
anj  other  direct  sources  of  positive  iufonaalioii  f 
Or  was  it  kntnon  to  them  (that  is,  coDfidently  b»- 
licved  by  them)  in  the  same  manner  in  which  tha 
late  Mr.  Tavlor  mi^ht  have  etid  he  knew  that 
Junius  wasfraoda,  i.  «.  from  the  coBvictkni  of  his 
own  mind,  from  evidence  which  be  felt  it  was  im- 
pos^ble  to  re«st  F 

How  did  these  diatingoished  penons  beoone 
possessed  of  the  secret,  which  Junius  declared 
would  perish  with  him  P  Lord  CliRtbam  could 
scarcely  have  received  it  otherwise  than  in  con- 
fidence ;  yet  as  Mr.  Pitt  waa  only  eleven  years  old 
when  Junius  ceased  to  write,  but  for  that  difiicult^ 
it  would  be  a  natural  inference  that  Mr.  Pitts 
knowledge  was  derived  from  Lord  Cbatbam. 
How,  too,  did  Lord  Orenville  learn  it,  bom  as  lie 
was  in  the  same  year  with  Mr.  PittF  for  if  ha 
leBToed  it  from  Mr.  Grenville,  then  Mr.  Orenville 
could  only  have  received  it  under  circumstances 
which  would  j  ustify  his  divulging  it 

A  very  slight  eiamination  of  most  of  the  tra- 
ditions respecting  Junius  shows  of  how  little  value 
thev  are  as  evidence  for  the  discovery  of  Uie 
anthorahip  of  the  Letters.  Aitd  this  without  the 
lightest  doubt  being  felt  as  to  tbe  high  character 
and  thorough  truthfulness  of  those  by  whom  and 
through  wbom  they  are  related  and  batided  down. 
Who  can  feel  otherwise  than  ccmvioced  that  in 
aendicg  a  message  to  tbe  edittv  of  The  Diariet  o^ 
a  Lady  of  QuaHty,  "  that  Lord  Grenvilie  toid  bei' 
he  knew  who  wrote  Junius's  Lettu*,  and  that 
they  were  not  written  by  Francis,"  Lady  Qran- 
ville  waa  only  anxious  to  contribute  aa  far  as  poa- 
aible  to  tbe  estabtiebment  of  the  truth  ?  In  like 
manner  who  can  feel  otberwiae  tban  convinced 
that  the  Hon.  Arthur  Gordon  ia  actuated  by  the 
same  praiaeworthy  motive  P 


Tectin 


idly  then 
AWdee 


•  "ThtHaaAenUfgitfJmmu,  prohaiionally  Investi- 
gated by  Mr.  (Xiadti  cUbot  (Expert).  With  Pwfece 
and  Coluleral  Evidence  by  the  Hon.  Edward  Twialetoiu" 


haa  been  under  a  wrong  impresaioii  aa  to  tbauaate 
of  tbe  mysterious  author ;  I'or  as  Mr.  Pitt  died  in 
1806,  and  Francis's  supposed  connection  with  tbe 
Letters  was  never  hmted  at  until  1813,  it  b 
ecaroely  poaaible  that  Mr.  Pitt  could  have  told 
Lord  Aberdeen  that  "  he  and  hia  father  knew  who 
wrote  the  Letters,  and  that  it  was  not  Fraaoie." 

That  Mr.  Grenville,  to  whom  Junius  addrewed 
the  private  letters  pnnt^d  in  the  ^^f''^''P^iQis\('' 


Smitb,  the  accomplished  editor  of  that  coire- 

ridance,  mys  ezpiesslj — and  his  t«Btiiiiony  on 
point  ia  veiy  important — 

"  It  his  been  snppowid  thit  the  late  Mr.  Thomu  Gren- 
Tille  hid  some  pecaliir  knovledge  respecting  the  aatbor- 
ibip  at  Janlos.  I  have  do  reuon  to  join  in  tlut  opinion. 
fdr  I  never  betrd  him  apeik  upon  tha  subject,  dot  did  I 
ever  hear  it  mentioned  in  his  presence." 

And  it  ia  certain  that  Mr.  Thomaa  Grenvill* 
never  saw  the  Stowe  Letters,  about  vhicb  so 
manj  marvelloua  accounts  have  been  givea,  until 
they  wore  shown  to  him  by  Mr.  Smith  in  1840. 

Suraly,  in  the  face  of  what  has  here  been  stated, 


ville,  Lord  Chatbam,  or  Mr.  Pitt  knew— that  is, 
had  pontive  knowledge  of — who  wrote  the  Letters 
of  Junius.  Qu^xsiioK. 


NICHOLAS  FEKRAR'S  EtTLOOT  DPOK  THE 
AUTHOR  OF  "IGNORAMDS." 

Nicholas  Ferrar,  the  pious  recluse  of  Little 
Gidding,  and  George  Ruggle,  the  author  of  /$no~ 
ramtu,  the  well-fiiown  comedy  played  before 
King  James  at  Gambiid^,  were  both  students  at 
Clue  Hall.  In  after  life  both  became  interested 
in  the  colonisation  of  Virf^nia,  and  Ruggle  in  his 
will  made  the  following  bequest 


"  I  Kive  aod  beqaeath  one  hundred  ponnds  towards 
uie  bmiging  up  of  tha  inSdels'  children  in  Vlrginii  in 
ChristUn  retigioD,  which  my  will  is  shill  be  disposed  of 


At  a  meeting  of  the  Yii^;inia  Company  held 
November  20,  1022,  Nicholas  Ferrar,  as  depaty- 
KOTsmor,  made  th«  following  statement,  which 
has  never  before  been  printed  in  England,  and  waa 
oqned  from  the  company's  M3.  IrsngactioDs  in 
the  Ooogresaional  Libia^,  Waahingtou,  U.  S.  of 


*■  H*  Dflpaty  further  ■cqnilntad  the  Campmy  that  M' 
Geoige  Bog^e,  latalv  Mlowe  o(  Glare  HiU  in  CambridKa, 
beinge  a  Brotiier  of  tha  Company  and  newly  deceased  (  w*^ 

he  nld  be  could  not  without  great  grieTc  menCon),  had 

Shia  will  bequeathed  lOQi  fbr  the  educaeon  of  Infldella' 
ildren,  Vch  he  had  canaed  to  be  put  into  the  Tibl^ 
w^  tha  Conrt  well  approaed  of:  but  aeamed  (at  least 
the  moat  part}  to  be  utterly  Ignorant  of  the  penon  or 
qnalitlea  M  the  man  : 

"  Whereupon  deairinge  to  Ite  informed  of  both,  M' 
Deputy  told  them  he  waa  a  man  second  none  in  know- 
ledge of  ill  manner  of  humanity,  leaminge,  and  » 
geneTBlly  reputed  in  Tniaarsity  of  singular  honestie  and 


[*  A  copy  of  the  last  will  and  testament  of  George 
Buggte  in  eitaiK>  it  printed  in  bis  Jgnorantu*,  edited  by 
J.S.  Hawkins,  ediL  1787,  pp.  xd—dv.  Consult  abo 
MiTor's  Tao  l.irta  of  Ifiehota*  Ferrar,  1866,  p.  12.] 


hioinga  (I 
himself  wi 


{besid«9  continnaiiy  sssistinge  his  Brothers  and 
with  Connaell  and  all  mauaer  of  help  in  them 
^leea)  written  nuidry  treatises  for  the  ben^tt  of  the 
FlantatiDn,  and  in  ^ticular  the  worke  so  liighty  com- 
ended  b^  S'  Edwin  Sandya,  concerning   the  Gouerm't 


of  Virginia, 


his  lift. 


It  to  be  knowns  during  his  lift. 
H'  De^aty  aaid  he  coold  not  with 
prive  him  of  that  Honor  w*  he  aa 


deprive 
aueiy  aeseruea." 

Ruggle  willed  that  all  his  papers  and  note* 
hooka  should  be  burned,  and  among  theee  waa 
probably  hia  treatise  on  the  Government  of  Vir- 
ginia, an  abstract  of  which  ia  given  in  tbe  minates 
of  the  Virginia  Company. 

Edward  D.  Nbill. 

Dublin. 


The  Rbpkhtami  Thisf.  —  I  once  heard  in 
Jamuca  a  dei^man  of  the  Scotch  kirk,  in  speak- 
ing of  the  Repentant  Tbief,  say  "he  had  the 

peculiar  privilege  and  high  honour  of  being  the 
last  that  was  blesaed  by  the  dying,  and  the  fint 
that  was  redeemed  bv  the  dead  Saviour  " — a  sen- 
timent to  me  ori^af  and  beautiful,  and  worthy 
of  preservation  in  "N.  A  Q."  G.  E. 

Anecdote  of  the  Duke  oe  'Welldistoit.  — 
Manyyearsago,whilatshootingin  Hampshire  vrith 
a  young  clergyman,  I  was  told  by  him  a  pleasing 
anecdote  of  the  Duke  of  Wellingt^in.  With  an 
estate  purchased  for  the  Duke  went  the  advowson 
of  a  living  for  which  the  dera^yman  was  being 
educated.  The  Duke  heard  of  it,  and  one  day 
asked  the  lad  to  be  his  guide  in  a  ride  across  the 
country,  and  finding  what  he  hod  heard  to  be 
true,  and  being  pleased  with  hia  companion,  the 
Duke  told  him  the  change  of  proprietorship  in 
the  land  should  make  no  difference  as  to  the 
living^  which  he  should  receive  when  he  had 
qualified  himself  for  it ;  and  he  waa  in  possession 
of  it  when  I  knew  hinL  G.  E. 

What  Ckiticb  abb.— I  do  not  know  whether 
it  may  interest  the  readers  of  "N.  k  Q."  to  know 
that  tbe  sayinf;:,  now  celebrated,  of  D'laraeli,  that 
"  Literary  critics  are  for  the  most  part  men  who 
have  fkiled  in  original  compodtioii,"  is  not  ori- 
ginal The  idea  is  aptly  ex^eeaed  in  the  epilogue 
to  Congreve'a  Way  of  the  World:  — 

"  Then,  all  bad  poets  we  are  rare  ire  fbes, 
And  how  their  number's  iwell'd  the  town  wall  knows : 
In  ahoili  I've  marked  'am  Jndging  in  the  Tit, 
Tbo'  they're  on  do  pntanoe  for  judgment  fit. 
But  that  th^  have  bam  damned  for  want  of  wit 
fHaix  when  they,  by  thdr  own  ofl^eea  taught, 
-     _. . .  »_„ ^rs 


Set  up  for  spiea  on  plays  and  finding  hnlt? 


C.  B.P. 


d  by  Google 


4*S.Vir.  Jdnb10,7I.] 


NOTES  AKD  QUEBIES. 


MuMifT-HmTiHa.— The  encloaed  catting  from 
the  Sonieieard  Mail  of  April  22,  being  tha  first 
notice  of  the  diecoTeiy  of  mummiea  in  India,  from 
which  important  lustorical  deductJona  nutj  be 
expected,  maj  perbapa  not  be  unacceptable  for 
rapublication  m''N.  &  Q.":  — 

"  UimxT-HiiMTiNo. — Qencnl  CDDnln^hani,  the  aaper- 
iotaidait  or  the  ArduMili^;leftl  Sarre;  id  India,  is  now 
in  Labon^  and  mummy-bunlen  are  invited  to  commani- 
cat*  irith  him.  The  Indian  Pablk  Opninu  says  :—'  We 
think  that  evei7lhinK  Talnable  Chat  may  be  fonnd  sboold 
be  unt  to  Europe,  when  alone  the  men  are  found  who 
have  both  the  learnins  and  the  leisure  to  compare  and 
comfdete  scientific  iuTeetigstione.  Notbin^  would  he 
more  ridicnlous  and  ephemeral  than  to  attempt  to  create  a 
p»endi>-Athe[i»  in  some  comer  of  India.  The  less  General 
OnnniDgham  trusts  Co  subordinate  official  agency,  and 
the  more  he  enconrsrea  Independent  inquiry,  the  greater 
will  be  the  teaulls  which  hia  misiion  will  achieve.' " 

R.  R.  W.  E. 
"Ainira  Laueib," — The  Virtb  of  this  young 
lad;,  BO  well  known  to  many  of  jour  readers,  is 
qnaintl;  recorded  by  her  father  Sir  Hobert  Laurie, 
of  Uazwelltown,  in  the  family  regiater  in  these 
words:  — 

*■  At  the  pleaaara  of  tha  Almighty  God,  my  daughter, 
Anoa  Laorie,  was  borne  upon  the  IS>^  day  of  December, 
1682  yean,  about  six  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  was 
baptised  by  M'  Qeo."  [Hunter,  of  Glencaini]. 
And  bis  own  marriage  la  given  in  tbe  some  quiunt 
.t,l.:- 

"  At  the  pleasure  of  the  Almighty,  I  was  married  to 
my  wift  Jean  RiddcU  npon  the  3^  day  oT  July,  1674,  in 
tha  Tron  Kiik  of  Edlnb.,  by  M'  Annans." 

These  atatemenla  I  &id  in  the  valuable  collec- 
tion of  manuBcripts  left  by  the  late  Mr.  W.  F.  H. 
Amndeil,  and  wnich  bis  soniW.  F.  Hunter  Arun- 
dell,  Eaq.,  of  Baijarg  Tower,  Dumfrieesliire,  baa 
kindly  aUowed  me  to  examine  and  moke  use  of. 
They  contain  a  vast  fund  of  cnrious  information 
respecting  tbe  antiquitiea  and  county  families  of 
DumiWesshire.  Many  of  your  readers  will  know 
that  Annie  was  wooed  by  William  Douglaa  of 
Fingland,  in  Eirkcudbrightahire.  Her  charms  are 
thus  spoken  of  in  bia  pathetic  lyric,  ''Bonnie 
Annie  Laurie":  — 

"  Her  brew  la  like  tbe  anaw-drift. 
Her  neck  is  like  tha  swan. 
Her  boa  it  is  the  faireat 

That  e'er  the  sun  shone  on. 
That  e'er  the  sun  ihoue  on. 
And  dark  blue  ia  her  e's  i 
And  for  bonnle  Annie  Laurie 
I'd  lay  me  down  and  dieL" 
She  was,  howerer,  obdurate  to  Ms  passionate 
appeal,  ]p«ferring  Alexander  Fe^usson  of  Craig- 
duTOch,  to  whom  she  was  eventually  married. 
This  William  Douglas  was  said  to  have  been  the 
hero  of  the  well-known  song,  "  Willie  was  a  wan- 
ton wag."    Though  be  wsa  refused  by  Annie,  he 
did  not  pne  away  in  single  bleeeedneee,  but  made 
a  runaway  marriage  with  Miss  Eliiabeth  Clerk  of 


Olenboig,  in  Oalloway,  Dy  whom  be  had  four 
aoDB  and  two  daugblera.  C.  T.  Ruuqb. 

PAKOniBS. — The  recent  mention  of  parodies  in 
"  N.  &  Q."  haa  reminded  me  of  some  bnea  which 
originated  in  this  country,  in  imitation  of  the 
well-known  verse  in  Moore  a  ZaUa  Sookh; — 
•*  I  nevar  nuraad  a  dear  gazelle. 

To  glad  me  with  its  aofl  black  eve, 
Bat  when  it  came  to  know  me  well 
And  love  me,  it  was  sure  to  die." 
Thus  imitated :  — 

"  I  never  had  a  piece  of  toast. 
Particularly  long  sad  wide. 
But  fell  upon  tbe  saaded  floor. 
And  always  on  tha  butcer'd  side." 
And  Hood's  beautdful  little  poem  commencing — 

"  I  remember,  I  ramember, 

The  house  when  I  was  bom," — 

has  given  rise  to   an  imitation,  two  verses  of 
which  are  — 


"1 


They  wrapped  me  in  a  linen  cloth. 

And  then  In  one  of  fVieae; 
And  tho'  1  could  not  speak  jolt  then, 

Tet  I  contrived  to  sneaze. 
"  I  remember,  I  remambar. 

Old  Udies  came  fiMm  far  i 
Some  said  1  iras  like  mother  dear. 

But  other*  thought  like  par  ; 
Tat  aU  agreed  I  had  a  head. 


Umbda. 
Philadelphia. 

PoLtnou.  Satirioil  Dkuus. — I  percnve,  by 
an  advertisement  in  "  N.  &  Q.,"  that  No.  M)  of 
the  Quarter^  Review  containa  an  article  tm  the 
"first  Lcnrd  Shaftesbury."  Not  having  in  this 
remote  locality  an  opportunity  of  seeing  that  pe- 
riodical, I  am  curious  to  learn  if  any  reference  is 
made  in  it  to  what  was  no  uncommon  pradioe  in 
bin  lordship's  time,  that  of  intioducinK  teal  cha- 
racters on  tbe  staxe  for  the  purpose  of  satiriaing 
them.  Lord  Sbonesbury  was  so  assailed  by  Dry- 
den  in  an  opera  ealitlei  Albion  and  Albanit.  "The 
subject  of  this  piece,"  as  Baker  says  in  his  Bio- 
ffn^hia  Dramattca,  "is  wholly  allegorical,  being 
intended  to  expose  Lord  Sbaftesbmry  and  his  ad- 
herentaj"  but  neither  Baker  nor  the  learned  Dr. 
Johnson  seem  to  be  aware  that  a  mora  violent  and 
virulent  satire  upon  the  same  individual  b  to  be 
found  in  Otway'a  play  of  FirtMeeiVMerveA"  Baker 
quotes  Dr.  Johnson  as  truly  describing  those  por- 


i:*  Hr.  Christie  (IL 139,  St  *t9.)tmlaDf  tbe  attacks  on 
Shaftesbury  by  Diyden,  Bntler,  Duka,  and  Otwar.—  I 


jdcftble  ecenea  of  vile  comedy."  All  the  vices 
asaizned  to  Aatonio  were  iDtended  to  depict 
AntQoii]'  Earl  of  Sbttfteabiir; ;  and  it  wM  tm 
account  of  these  very  scenes  that  the  play  w*i  a 
iaTOurite  with  Charles  II.  These  statemeeta  are 
made  from  my  reconeetimi  of  what  I  read  in  (but 
unfortunately  did  not  make  a  note  of  ^  a  periodical 
«ilitled  ITm  Drama,  and  published  m  London  in 
1821.  The  probabilityof  its  correctness  restsupcm 
the  fact  that  both  parties,  at  that  period  of  Eng- 
lish history,  were  merciless  in  their  treatment  of 
each  other,  and  made  use  of  the  forma  of  a  drama 
to  gratify  theb  detestation  of  their  Bdveisaries. 
Look,  for  instance,  to  Bidier's  account  of  the  fol- 
lowing pieces  r  Abdicated  I^tux ;   The  Auembb/: 

BauitM  Duke ;  BUemgi  ofP ,-  Blood!/  ^^"^  ■' 

3*1  Cabal;  City  PotUiqma;   CoWi  JWy,  4e.  ^-c. 

An  instructive  history  might  be  written  upon 
the  poUtdcal  satirical  drama  as  founded  hy  Aiis- 
tophanes,  and  perpetuated  in  Enj^and  until  the 
last  century.  Wh.  B.  MlC  Cabb. 

HoncontoDr.ds-BreCagB«,  CMea  da  Noid,  Fiance. 

Tbfb  En70yiieiit. — That  most  accomplished 
and  kindly  country  ffentleman,  the  late  J.  B.  S. 
Moiritt  01  Rokeby,  inviting  a  friend  to  his  house, 
writes  (February  1840)  in  this  contteous  and 
genial  strain : — 

"Tou  ara  not  to  b«  in  uijr  hairy,  bat  oUlpiDg  and 
obedient,  and  to  ataj-a  loag  visit,  and  see  ail  m;  favourite 
UoDJ^  and  enjoj  what  1  alwtyi  ptelcT  to  all  other  enjov- 
menis  of  societ; — a  friend's  hoDse  and  fine  weather  in  ihe 
eoantrv;  thit  wUdi  Sir  William  Temple  aiya  is  liks 
home  hut  not  homelj-,  and  Hke  aolltude  withoot  tiung 
oney.  ^ 

DEFiniTioir  OF  CoirsoLa. — Mr.  D'laraeli,  aome 
time  since,  in  the  House  of  CommoDB,  referring 
to  Sydney  Smith's  mot  on  the  subject,  spoke  of 
Ae  "  miett  simplicity  of  CodboIh,"  which  has  ^^ime 
tile  round  of  the  prsM.  Unless  my  memory  is  at 
fkolt,  the  expreaniOQ  used  br  the  witty  canon  of 
8t  I^uFs  was  "  the  ehgtmt  simplieity  of  the  three 
pw  centd,"  H.  A.  KBJnraDT. 

EMon  HoBse,  Jtti^ttg. 

Sited  bt  \  Fish, — The  following  cutting  from 
Th»  Timet  of  April  20  is  worthy  of  *  comer  in 
"N.  &Q.":— 

**  Tliat  the  ocean  abounds  vUb  wondei*  is  daily  befaag 
extvpUfied,  and  leldora  mon  forcibly  so  than  In  the 
experience  of  Captain  Ward  of  the  bark  ProvidsDce,  of 
Hartlepoal.  who  baa  Jost  ntnaed  from  Dantaio,  at 
which  porthe  waafrMeo  opdnriag  tlkelalaNTerawiDlsi. 
Heitateathat  dafiait  Uaoatwaid  voyiga  to  that  port,  in 
Novunbor  last,  the  ahip  iprang  a  uveie  leak  daring  a 
Rale  ie  the  Baltic,  and  bis  crew  were  all  bat  eibaasted 
in  that  eflorts  at  the  pnmpa  to  rednc*  It  One  day  she 
nddcnty  (topped  makinB  more  water,  and  flventaally 
the  venel  nailed  Dsnt^  aafe^.  After  the  diacharice 
tt  Un  cargo  a  search  was  mads  for  the  leak,  nanltiDg  bt 


whh  the  vessel  when  aUve  had  beto  the'evfdait  came  of 
of  the  leak,  asd  eeawgneat  aalvatioo^af  tte 


stoMagaol 


The  I 


aUe— "  The  Providenoe> 

I  remember  reading  toMe  y««R  ago  of  a  aanilv 

act  of  Providence,  but  have  no  ftirtlier  note  of  it 

QmOBlLhOTa. 

CiamliDgton. 

CHitrcER'B  Works,  ed.  Stowe,  1561.— It  is 
worth  notice,  that  in  Stowe's  Supplement  to 
Thynne's  edition  of  Chaucer's  Wtnkg  (Godfny, 
1532},  which  Stowe  heads— "c  Here  foloweth 
certajne  woorkea  of  OeAlray  Cbauser,  wbicfae  hath 
Qot  here  toforc  been  printed,  and  are  gathei^ 
and  added  to  this  booire  by  Jhon  Stowe,"  the  first 
Balade  of  three  staoias  on  Oeatilneaee,  or  Virtues 
not  being  hweditoiy,  was  not  only  printed  W 
Wvnkyn  de  Worda  (Univ.  lib.  Camhr.),  and 
by  Thynne  in  hie  edition  of  1532,  at  leaf  38(^ 
Scogen's  moral  Poem  to  the  Lords  and  Gestle- 
men  of  the  Eins's  House  (where  alone  tfaia  Balade 
is  {oeseryed),  but  was  also  printed  by  Stowe 
himself  on  leaf  335,  col.  3,  in  nis  repint  of  this 
poem  of  Scot's,  leaf  334  back-3S5  ImA. 


AccoiviAiicE. — Has  this  word  ever  been  used 
by  EnElish  authors,  as  is  to  be  inferred  from  Mrs. 
Tnraie  s  letter  to  her  grand  fHmd,  and  in  the 
FWich  acceptation  of  ita  meaning  (from  the  Latin 
ad  comilan — "liaieon  ordinairemeat  illicite  d'on 
homme  avec  une  femme  ")  P  Mrs.  Thrale,  undn 
which  homely  English  name  we  all  seem  to  pre- 
fer her,  writes  in  Febroary,  17^ :  — 

"  Looking  over  some  French  melanges  yesterday,  I 
observed  that  H.  TAbbrf  d'Artigny  njed  the  word  accom- 
tamn;  it  was  a  new  thing  to  me,  and  oee  of  whidi  [ 
bad  no  notion  beftin.  Pin  haw  caaia  it  iato  onr  lan- 
gnage  P  "—  Fide  Un.  Piani  a  colleetira  of  LtUtrt  lo  oad 
/mm  tilt  late  Sained  JaJmMH,  LLJ),  S  vi^,  London, 
1788,  voLii.p,  838. 

There  is  no  answer  to  this  question  in  any  of 
Dr.  Johnson's  subse{|uent  letters;  whidi,  by  the 
way,  make  us  love  him  hmk  thaa  any  of  his  great 
works,  and  well  desetve  that  little  self-praise  of 
himself  and  his  letters:  "  AmA'  to  ttmo  pitlore." 
(Fkfe  ariii,  Ak£  ToL  il  p.  U) 

Hssiuini  KiSDi. 

Germany. 

*  ASiiKunm  OSAXn." — Cm  any  readav  aup- 
[dy  me  with  examplaa  (rf  this  Sae  exprenson  otbtr 
tlma  the  fUkwiag  P  — 


d  by  Google 


4U'S.TII.  Jose  10,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


493 


.^Buhfliu,  ProiMthwu*,  luM  6. 
"  AdamuiH  Uzto  Tindre." 

SfliMca.  HcraJa  Ikrai*,  807. 
"  Bat  bar  In  Aaints'oC  Adunuit  hs  tyds ; 
For  nothiDg  elM  might  keepe  her  mFb  and  wnna. 
Speiuer,  Faerie  Qrtetu,  book  u.  osnto  sii.  82. 
"  Id  adainaDtine  cbalDS  and  peiul  fire." 

Hilton,  Pandite  Lott.  book  i.  line  48. 
^  In  adamantine  ch^iu  ehall  Duth  be  baDBd." 

Pope,  MatuJi,  verse  47. 
"  Bound  in  tbv  adanantiD*  chuD." 

Gray,  Bynm  to  Adtitrtitjf. 

Tkb  Eedoeossb  Ksight. 


— 1  have  now  in 


the 


AjTOimoirs. 
foUowing  :— 

"  The  Ivdgeinent  of  i 

from  b«7ond  the  Seaa, „ 

Biahopa,  with  a  Declaralion  of  certalne  olber  iruEhtie 
PoiDiscoucaniing  the  Diioiplino  and  GoTememeat  of  the 
ChuTcb." 

Who  was  the  author  P  Where  wm  it  printed  P 
What  is  its  date?  I  cannot  find  it  in  Bohns 
Laumdes.  It  ia  bound  np  with  "  A  Lamentable 
Complunt  of  tha  Commonalty,"  "  The  Vnlawfnll 
Fractisea  of  Prelates,"  and  "  A  Booke  of  the  Forme 
of  Common  PrBjere,  Adminiatration  of  the  Sacra- 
mmta,  &c,  agreeable  to  Gods  Worde,  and  the 
T»e  of  the  reformed  ChTTchM." 

J.  U.  COWPSB. 

AunairE  Heads  ts  MBotarAi.  Seam.— In  the' 
fifUi  volume  of  Archaologia  Cantiana  are  seTBial 
aeala  c^  Stephen  de  Thomham,  Mabel  de  aalton, 
and  Eobert  de  Thumham,  twelfth  and  thirteen^ 
centuries,  which  have  nn  interesting  feature  which 
I  do  not  think  has  been  noticed.  Each  of  the 
small  counter-seala  has  in  the  centre  an  antique 
head  or  device,  doubtleaa  taken  from  Roman  and 
other  intagUos  inserted  in  the  probably  gold  seal. 
The  one  at  p.  208  appears  to  be  an  early  Eastern 
signet  with  inscription.  Could  any  reader  ex- 
plun  the  inscripUonP  It  is  not  imosual  to  find 
old  engraved  gems  inserted  in  book  covera,  church 

Elate,  or  such  things ;  hut  I  do  not  remember  to 
ave  seen  tham  so  early  used  agwn  aa  '^^ 

Babixohiait  BRioifc— In  tha  sun-dried  bridra 
which  the  Isrselites  were  required  to  make  for 
the  Egyptians,  the  chopped  straw  which  they  ■— 
tainea  would  serve  as  a  binding  material,  hi 
the  kita-baked  bricka  it  would  be  entirely  burnt 
away ;  yet  we  find  that  the  Roman*,  at  a  itt  later 
period,  in  their  kilna  at  Castor  (Durofrriua)  had 
mixed  vegetable  mattera  with  the  clay  walls  of  the 
kiliis.  What  purpose  was  thia  admiiture  mtended 

to  serve,  and  is  it  evw  resorted  t»  '-  *>• '"" 

iiiBiiu£utuie  of  biidis  P 

A  Cakicatoth  Qtiskt.— There  is  a  caricatuTe, 
dated  1817,  flutatled  "  The  Horse  Maibw  and  his 
Tnunpetet  in  a  Squall,"  referring  to  the  a^ipont- 


ment  of  the  Marquis  of  Worcester  ea  a  Lord  of 
the  Admiralty.  The  marquis  is  represented  in 
his  huseai  uniform,  riding  a  sea-horse  in  a  turbu- 
lent sea;  beside  him  swims  a  water-rat;  before 
him,  floating  on  a  "  Walcheren  log,"  is  his  trum- 
peter, a  bald-headed  Triton  in  a  harlequin's 
jacket  Query :  Who  are  the  trumpeter  and  the 
water-rat  P  A.  P. 

ClBOPATKAT  WABSHBEaTPnATKmOBSBKP — 

In  M.  O^rome's  "  Cldopatre  apport€e  i,  C^sar  dana 
un  ta|us,"  now  exhibited  at  the  Soyal  Academy, 
I  was  astonished  to  find  Cleopatra  repreaented 
with  the  fleahy  sensual  features  and  yellow  skin 
of  an  Egyptian  woman.  I  had  always  looked 
upOD  her  BB  a  Greek-  U.  G^r&me  must,  no  doubt, 
think  that  be  has  authority  for  representing  ber 
as  he  has  done ;  [but  where  does  he  find  his 
aathority  P  I  have  taken  some  trouble  in  inveo- 
tigating  the  matter,  and  I  cannot  discover  that 
she  had  a  angle  drop  of  Egyptian  blood  in  her 
veins ;  and  if  ahe  had  not,  surely  the  residence  of 
her  family  in  Egypt  for  some  two  hundred  and 
fifty  years  would  not  alone  suffice  to  give  the 
meet  notorious  memhA  of  it  purely  ^yptjan 
features  and  Egyptian  skin.  The  Americans  of 
the  United  States  have  not  yet  become  North 
American  Indians,  although  some  miuntain  they 
are  aptm  the  road. 

It  IS  true  that  Cleopatra  seems  to  have  bad  two 
slight  tinges  of  Perman  blood)*  and  that  her 
fautet  (Ptolemy  Anletes)  and  her  mother  are  said 
both  of  them  to  have  been  illegitimate  children 
of  Ptolemy  Lathyrus  by  an  unknown  mother  (or 
mothers).  But  even  suppoaing  this  unknown 
mother  (or  mothers)  to  have  been  Egyptian— 
which  there  is  no  reason  to  suppose — this  and  the 
tinges  of  Fernan  blood  would  not  have  dmrerted 
a  Greek  race  into  a  purely  Egyptian  one.t 

The  copies  of  the  coins  of  the  Ptolemies,  given 
in  Smith^  Diet,  of  Bom.  and  Orec  Biograpluf  and 
Mythology,  show  us  thoroughly  Grecian  feces. 
Cleopatra's  face  is  less  Orecian  than  the  rest,  but 
only  because  it  is  more  Roman.  But  perhaps 
these  coins  are  of  little  value.  F,  Chavcb. 

Bvdenbam  Hill. 


CoTiLB,  TBB  PoEi.— Joseph  Cottle,  poet  and 
publisher  of  Bristol,  the  friend  of  Southey  and 
Coleridge  and  Amos  Cottle  the  poet,  were  brothers. 
From  -srtiich  branch  of  the  Cottle  bunity  did  they 


■  Flolemv  Epiphanee  married  Cteopatia,  danshter  of 
Antiacbaani.,  or  the  Groat  Hei  mother,  Laodiea,  wai 
dai^Ur  of  MitbridalM  IV.,  King  of  Poutiu ;  and  An- 
tio^ui  I.  also  married  a  Persian  lady  named  Apama. 

■f  The  praclice  of  marryliig  their  own  siBlere,  ao  com- 
mon among  the  Ptolemica,  wonid  natorally  tend  to  the 
perpetuatioD  of  the  peeoUaritiee  of  tbe  fonndtrt  of  Che 
race.  Cleopatra,  owing  to  the  illegillniBcy  of  hei  pai«it^ 
had  the  benefit  of  oneandporhapa  two  croases!  and  v"y 
■■■   ■     1  think,  she  owed  at  least  a  pDrtion  of  her  sbllitT    ^^ 


standiD^  that  the  uneommon  name  of  AmiHS  or 
AnicM  frei^uentlj  appeus  id  the  pedigree  of  that 
family  dunng  the  sixteenth  and  Beventeenth  cen- 
turies. Any  infomiation  connected  with  the 
descent  of  these  brothera  will  be  thankfully 
raceired.  W.  H.  Coitbll. 

BriztoD  Rtwd,  S.W. 

LoBD  FiLKLkSD,  Ve.  Donitb,  avl  Sik  Ed- 
WAHD  DrBB. — Intending  to  indude  in  the  Afit- 
cellaniet  of  the  Fuller  Worliia*'  Library  m 
complete  a  collection  as  poesihle  of  the  hitberto 
nncollected  poet^  of  Loid  Falkland,  allow  me  to 
ask  readers  of "  N.  &  Q."  to  favour  me  with  refer- 
ences to  an  J  preserved  in  manuscript  or  in  unlikely 
books.  I  name  the  latter  because  one  of  his  most 
characteristic  poems  is  found  prefixed  to  sn  anony- 
mous funeral  sermon  for  the  Countess  of  Hunt- 
iuKdon.  I  know  of  course  Lad^  Theresa  Lewis's 
"  Memoir  of  Lord  Falkland "  in  her  admirable 
lAves  of  the  Clarendon  Family,  and  also  the  paina- 
takine  articles  in  the  New  Series  of  the  OeniU- 
man'i  Magadne  (183S-1839),  as  well  as  the 
invariable  authorities.  What  I  dedderate  are 
MSS.  (including  letters)  and  books  (either  or 
both)  Uist  may  be  accidentallj  known  to  indi- 
viduals. 

Further ;  as  my  work  on  the  JWfar  Worthie*' 
edition  of  the  complete  Poems  of  Dr.  Donne 
(with  nnmeroos  additionsfrom  MSS.  of  rare  value 
and  interest)  is  well  advanced,  I  ask  help  in  eluci- 
dation of  the  many  inidsls  of  his  poetry;  and 
perhapa  M.  Tibdhkait  or  other  Dutch  correspond- 
ent of  "N.  &  Q."  may  be  able  to  oblige  me  vrith 
the  title-page  nnd  contents  of  a  Duteb  translation 
of  Donne  s  Poema  very  amusingly  referred  to  by 
Llewellyn  in  his  Mm-Miraclet  (1646).  Or  by 
Dutch  is  German  meant  P  I  am  curious  to  know 
if  so  early  as  1646  there  really  was  a  translation 
of  Donne's  poetry.  Finally :  can  any  one  inform 
me  where  a  copy  is  preserved  of  Sir  Edward 
Dyer's  Sixe  lA/tUa  (1588)  9         A.  B.  Qbosakt. 

St.  Qeoige's,  Blackburn,  Lsncubire. 

FfiKBTiN«A  Sasa. — I  have  seen  in  an  old 
volume  of  one  of  the  quarterly  reviews  (I  forget 
which,  and  am  unable  agun  to  find  it)  a  review 
of  this  Icelandic  saga,  "done  into  English"  in  the 
year  sixteen  hundred  and  somethinfr.  As  the  text 
of  the  sa^  was  not  printed  till  1832, 1  presume 
this  English  translation  must  have  been  made 
ftom  the  Latin  version  of  Torfteus,  published  at 
Copenhagen  in  1695.  A  reference  to  the  review 
or  any  account  of  the  English  translation,  will 
greatly  oblige.  W, 

Ftenos  ahi  Fact.— It  is  not  two  years  nnce  I 
read  in  a  magazine  a  story,  the  hero  of  which,  a 
jeweller's  assistant,  was  renbed  under  much  the 


appeared.  I  believe  it  was  in  Chainberit  Journal 
Perhaps  Mr.  and  Mrs,  Torpev  may  hare  beoi 
accustomed  to  improve  their  mmde  therewith. 
Sr.  SwiTHEf. 
FiBB  AT  Mbtsbbikohah.  —  The  Comnumi 
JoamaU,  vol.  vii.  p.  680,  contains  the  notice  of  a 

fresentation  totheHouseofCommoas,on  Junsll, 
650,  of  the  petition  of  Edward  Sbnre  and  Wil- 
liam Dickenson,  on  behalf  of  themselves  and  other 
inhabitants  of  Metheringham,  in  the  county  of 
Lincoln,  praying  for  "  a  publick  contributiiHi  for 
their  loss  by  fire."  A  certificate  under  the  haodf 
of  several  justices  of  peace  was  snnezed. 

Can  any  one  inform  me  where   I   shall  find  uy 
further  account  of  this  catastrophe  P    Can  tbe 
original  petition  and  certificate  bo  in  existence? 
'  Edwabji  Peacock. 
Bottoford  Huar,  Brigg. 

Gakkoohs  OB  Oabkohs.— Can  any  one  teQ  w 
the  meaning  of  this  word— perhaps  Irish  F  1> 
occurs  several  times  in  Whitelocko's  Mtmorialt. 
in  ennmerating  the  animals  taken  from  the  Irish 
rebels:  for  instance,  "They  took  about  200 gar- 
roons,  300  cows,  and  400  sheep  and  goats";  or 
agiun,  "They  took  many  hundreds  of  cows  sad 
garrons."  T.  W.  Webb. 

[A  gatn»  is  a  small  borae,  a  nlloway,  that  il,  a 
not  mon  than  rourtesn  bands  ii%h,  much  used  ii 


Glatton  (4"'  S.  viL  364, 446.)— The  "Glstfon" 
man-of-vrar,  lately  launched,  is,  I  believe,  name* 
after  an  armed  merchant  vessel,  called  also  ibe 
"Qlatton,"  and  which,  in  the  lost  war  between 
England  and  France,  was  engaged  in  a  '^^^'^^ 
and  successful  action  with  two  or  more  frencn 
ships.  This  aimed  merchant  vessel  was,  I  belis^*' 
fitted  out  by  some  traders  at  Olatton,  a  plsce  is 
Cornwall,  I  think.  Perhaps  those  more  iortunste 
than  myself  in  having  booKs  in  which  to  seek  for 
the  necessary  information  on  tbe  subject  wiii 
estalilish  my  statement  as  true,  or  upset  it. 

aXSLJ.M. 

Hfbbbbt.— On  the  Puddledock  estate  in  Priw* 
George  county,  Virginia,  is  a  la^  tombstone 
erected  to  the  memory  of  John  Herbert^  beannf 
the  following  inscription : — 

"  Here  lyeth  interred  the  body  of  John  Hertw*.  '^ 
•an  of  John  Heirhert,  apothecary,  andgrandson  "'■"-"I'i 
HeritrU  citiim  of  London,  who  deparud  ihii  Ii*  ™  '' 
daye  of  Hsich  1704,  in  the  46'>>  y««r  ofbii  age." 

Above  the  inscription  is  a  crest  and  coat  of 
arms :  the  former  representing  a  bundle  of  »*^ 
aiTowa,  points  downwards ;  and  the  latter  tnrM 
lions  rampant. 


d  by  Google 


■4*  8.  VII.  JusB  10,  Tl.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


495 


From  wlMm  ini 
1660)deecei)dedP 

Jkak  »e  Milos. — 

"  Jun  de  MiloD,  >  hmooi  phyndui,  who  wrote  in  tin 
KTenteenth  cenCary,  and  addreased  lu>  apborinni  to  a 
king  or  EnglaDd."— IfMt  tutd  Gvut,  by  A.  V.  Kiiwan. 
LandoD,  1864,  p.  261. 

I  Bhall  be  ^rently  obliged  bj  any  iaformation  as 
to  whether  his  works  h&TO  beau  published,  and  if 
so,  wheie  and  vheu.  T.  W.  C. 

Cvh,  CovL.— This  ia  a  common  pi«flx  to  place- 
namea  in  Scotland,  probahlj  of  Celtic.ori^n.  One 
of  the  Ocbills  is  called  Caui,  and  in  Rosasbire 
there  ia  a  large  ptoperty  of  the  same  dettguation. 
We  have  CoiMuni  in  Stntthcljde,  Cuicaim  in 
ibe  coDndes'of  Inremewand  Rosa,  and  Culchum 
in  Amrleahiie.  Are  we  to  etxtdiei  (Mtoden  an 
example  of  tlie  eame  preOx  ?  Ia  CuU,  which  also 
appetus,  to  be  conudered  of  the  aame  origin  P 
Colter  appears  in  tbe  countiee  of  Aberdeen, 
Peebles,  and  Lanark.  Can  aajone  )^Te  us  n 
meaning  which  will  be  applicable  to  most  of  these 
place-names  ?  In  the  Irish  language  we  have 
CuUan  Bud  to  mean  "  place  of  hazels."  Coll.  Is 
thie  connected  with  the  Scotch  CiUlea? 

J.  M'K. 

Jewish  Marbugb  Rniss. — There  are  certain 
large  rings  which  are  broad  and  much  ornamented 
in  the  hoop,  and  have,  bj  way  of  a  bezel,  a  small 
honse,  temple,  or  tabernacle  projecting  from  them. 
They  are  generally  called  Jewish  marnBge  rings, 
and  have  usually  a  Hebrew  inscription  on  them, 
meaning,  I  am  told,  "  Qood  be  witn  ua."  I  have 
been  very  credibly  informed  that  no  such  rings 
are  used  in  the  Jewish  marriage  ceremony;  and 
I  should  ealeeui  it  a  favour  if  any  one  can  iotbrm 
me  whether  they  are  really  Jewish  marriage  rings 
or  not,  and  whether  they  are,  or  ever  were,  used 
ia  the  Jewish  marri^e  ceremony.  If  they  were 
used  in  former  times,  when  that  usage  ceased? 
And  if  they  are  not  used  at  such  marriage,  what  is 
their  use  and  meaning?  The  uuiversal  Hebrew 
inscripdon  seems  to  favour  the  idea. 

I  have  a  lai^  and  very  broad  gold  boop  ring : 
round  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  hoop  ia  a  thick 
twisted  cord  or  rope;  and  tbe  intermediate  band 
of  the  boop  is  composed  of  three  groups,  tepre- 
eenting  the  Creation  of  Eve,  the  Temptation,  and 
the  Expulsion  from  Paradise.  These  groups  are 
ornamented  with  translucid  enamel ;  and  bein^ 

E'erced  work,  there  is  a  lining.  I  am  told  that  it 
a  Jewidi  ring.  There  is,  however,  no  Hebrew 
inacription,  ana  I  doubt  if  tbe  Jews  would  have 
made  a  graven  image  of  the  Creator.  Can  any 
one  tell  me  what  tbe  u»e  end  intention  of  that 
ring  may  have  been  P  It  is  nearly  an  inch  deep, 
and  an  inch  across. 

I  am  very  anxious  to  obtun  a  sergeant's  ring. 
They  are  veiy  oncommon,  though  vast  nnmbars 


mnat,  or  at  least  ought  to  Jiave  been  made.  What 
becomes  of  them  all  P  for  one  never  aeee  them  in 
shops  or  sales.  Where  am  I  likely  to  meet  witk 
one  P  Ocn'AviifS  MoBoan. 

to,  Charki  Stnel,  St.  Jamw's. 

Ealendis. — There  is  a  curious  use  of  this  word 
in  Wyclif's  Sermons,  lately  published  under  tbe 
editorship  of  Mr.  Thos.  Arnold.  Wyclif  is  Speak- 
ing of  the  knowledge  that  shall  be  given  to  the 
blessed :  "  And  in  tokene  of  kalendit  of  ))is  Poule 
telli)>  of  himulf  how  he  was  caught  np  into 
Heaven,"  &c.  (ii.  263.)  And  again  (on  the  next 
page^  :  "  Pe  Mdde  hevene  is  by  undustonding,  as 
seintis  seen  uiat  ben  in  blisse ;  and  kalemUa  ortis 
Bijt  hadde  Poul  whan  he  was  ravyahid."  Mr. 
Arnold's  note  is,  that  the  woid  "seems  to  be  used 
in  the  sense  of '  first-fruits '  or  '  initiation.' "  Can 
any  of  your  correspoodents  give  me  another  in- 
stance of  the  word  being  used  in  this  way  ? 

F.  D.  M. 

LiTUseiCAL  QuEBT.— Can  any  of  your  Catholic 
readers  inform  me  when  the  O^um  De^toKtonim 
in  its  present  form  was  first  used,  and  (if  known) 
by  whom  it  was  composed  ?  And  espedally,  how 
early  in  the  history  of  the  Church  can  traces  be 
found  of  the  use  of  the  Be  Profundu  and  of  lec- 
tions from  the  book  of  Job,  in  connection  with  the 
obsequies  of  the  departed  ?         SABisBtrSTENSis. 

MAiHEn  Soldiers. — On  June  13, 1659,  a  com- 
mittee of  the  House  of  Commons  was  ordered  to 
prepare 

"  A  list  of  the  nainea  of  maimed  aoldien  and  widoirs 
DOW  in  pay  in  the  Savoy  and  Ely  houu ;  and  of  what 
conotry  each  of  them  severally  are;  what  pensiona  are 
payable  to  them,  and  how  they  mav  be  provided  for  in 
tbe  several  counties  or  otherwise."— Oin.  Jo<,r.  viL  683. 

Is  this  document  still  in  existence,  and  if  so, 
where?  Edwabs  Peacock. 

BattesTord  Manor,  Brigg. 

SiB  John  Uksos  {i'"  8.  vii.  365,  430.)— I 
would  feel  extremely  obliged  if  P.  M.  could  tell 
mo  whether  Sir  John  Mason  married  a  daughter 
of  the  Lord  Audley,  and  how  many  sons  he  had, 
and  what  ia  known  of  their  descendants  in  the 
second  genera^on  P  H.  M. 

Medals  of  Olivbb  Cbohwell. — I  should  be 
pleased  if  any  subscriber  could  throw  any  light 
upon  the  following  paragraph,  as  to  whicn  par- 
ticular medal  is  referred  to ;  whether  it  was  any 
die  of  Thomas  Simon's,  or  one  engraved  by  the 
Dutch  in  imitation  of  hie  :— 

"  yortAan^aon  Mtrcury,  July  10th,  1738. 

London,  July  6. 

"ACurion*  Dye  of  Olivet  Ctomwell,  ent  in  London 
daring  bia  Usnrpation,  was  tslaly  purchsu'd  in  Flandvs, 
aDdbrooghtlo  tha  Tower,  where  the  Bod.  Richard  Anm- 
dell,  Esq.  has  given  leave  for  a  certalD  Number  to  t>« 
Btnek  in  Gold  and  Silver  for  the  Cnilona."— Vide  S>-.mi»- 
motic  Chmicle,  old  aeriea,  vol.  xi  p.  103. 


engTATed ;  with  thrae-quartec  face  tiist  to  right, 
in  umoui,  bare-headed.  InscriptioD :  "hithbbio  . 
HATH  .  THE  .  LOKr  .  HHLPBB  ,  TS."  No  medftl 
of  the  Mud  is  in  the  Britiih  Mnieiini,  aad  I  have 
never  seen  or  otherwiBe  henrd  of  a  (^taramen.  I 
nwyiidd  that  Vertue'B  enflrnTing  is  meral;  cojusd 
by  RnkertoD  in  hie  Meddlic  Eidory. 

I  should  also  be  thankful  to  receive  any  other 
information  rejecting  unpubliahed  or  raw  coine 
and  medals  of  Oliver  Cromwell. 

Hehbt  W.  HEnnunr. 
Maikbim  House,  Brighton. 
Fardoh,  1060.— Tbo  foUowiog  fragment  is  from 
the  Oddington  (Glouc)  register :  — 

" u  exampka  to  ill  the  iidisbittmti 

.  .  .  irbo  aball  duely  subscribe  their  namea  bemmto, 
■nd  .  .  .  Bcceptaiion  of  the  uid  Gncions  Pardon  to 
beanlared.  ....  Register  books  of  pish  of  Odil^toa 
aftwtatid.  and  hereunto  lubscribe  our  names  the  seiTentb 
day  of  Jnne,  Id  the  yeare  of  our  Lord  one  Tbotuaod 
Bixe  handled  and  dxt;  — 

William  Tray,  Hhditer  of  the  Ooqiel  at 

OdiuKtoD. 
John  JJIen,  Chntchwarden. 
Richard  Hickman.  CooaUble. 
John  Gardiner,  overseer  of  the  poore. 
Jobn  Guy,  Robert  Grove.  Jobn  HOI,  Jmi'. 
Robert  Henly,  William  Weale. 
WiU.  Barker." 
Can  any  one  supply  what  is  wantiDg  from  any 
like  entry,  or  give  information  on  this  fragment  P 
David  Boyce. 
Parish  BEeisTSBS  or  Barbados  (4*^  S.  vii. 
S87.) — Will  A.  please  give  an  account  of  these 
registers,  their  present  condition,  earliest  dates, 
ana  some  of  the  earlier  namea  P    Does  the  name 
of  Cutt  or  Cutts,  of  Hoel  or  Howell,  and  of 
Vaughan,  occur  in  them  P  T. 

pKOFESSioire.— I  ehall  be  glad  to  be  refbned  to, 
or  to  receive  from,  soma  correspondent  an  accurate 
definition  of  the  word  profcation  ai  describing  the 
mode  by  which  a  man  earns  his  livelihood:  I  do 
not  find  it  in  the  newest  dictionaiiea  orencyclo- 
ptedias.  The  "learned'"  professions  are,  Ilniow, 
divinity,  law,  and  phyric;  bnt  there  is  abo  the 
"profeatdon  of  arms,"  which  applies,  I  supoMa, 
eqoally  to  the  army  and  navy;  and  many  others 
claim  to  be  indnded  in  the  class  of  prafeesional 
men,  as  acconntante,  architects,  aactaonoers,  whom 
status  is  at  present  ill-d«fioed,  W.  C.  J. 

A.  U.anb. 

Saitdtoft  Heoistke.  —  The  register  of  the 
French  chapelofBandtoft,  on  the  level  of  Hatfield 
Cliase,  was  in  existence  within  the  last  fifty  or 
■ixty  years.  I  have  made  inquiries  for  it  through 
the  medium  of  "  N.  &.  Q.,"  *  oi  The  Timet  and 


«S,iv.71,99j  i»^S.v.605.] 


it  at  some  period  of  his  life,  for  in  his  Autahio- 
ffrapJUc  EaceiiecUoiu,  p.  4,  are  Bome  eitiSLCls  from 
it  relating  to  his  own  family.  Can  it  be  poaable 
that  among  his  papers  may  be  fonnd  a  mtmo- 
nmdnm  stating  i^o  is  the  present  owner  F 

EdWAU)  PBti»CK. 

Sbi-den's  Ballaos,  etc. — The  last  issue  of  the 
Soxtees  Sodety,  the  Diary  of  Abraham  de  la 
^rymt,  the  Ha^fi^d  Antiquary,  contains  a  state* 
ment  that  — 

"  Mr.  Bdden,  the  bmoos  antiqiiuy,  |ath«ed  up  an 
the  old  ballets  he  could  meet  with,  aad  ironld  protest 
there  vu  mon  tmth  in  them  than  tliere  was  hi  mMny  of 
onr  htotorian*,"— P.  67. 

This  memorandum  was  made  in  Auguat,  leOEL 
Selden's  boolis  are  most  of  them  in  the  BodleiaD, 
but  I  do  not  think  his  collection  of  ballade  is 
among  them.    Can  any  one  tell  where  it  isP 

It  is  stated  in  anotbei  place — 
"  that  the  pmbitertana  in  Scotland  have  laldy  csond 
Tilt  Wlult  billy  of  Mam  to  be  burnt  bv  the  commoo 
bangnoaa,  and  with  it  Whiston'a  Sm  T%tmi  of  tit 
EarA." 

ViA  this  raally  happen,  c 
goanpP 

Abcibki  Sxrvice.  —  In  a  tbiiteenHi-centaiT 
Psalter— which  has  for  centuries  been  in  England^ 
being  still  in  ita  fift«enth-century  English  binding, 
and  having  as  usual Uie  word  "papa"  and  the  name 
of  "  S.  Thos.  Cant"  wased — -tiiere  are  the  following 
uunes,  whose  country  and  dates  I  should  like  to 
know:  OallicanuB,  Momelphua;  Gondulphus  or 
Oundulphue,  Amulphua,  Trudo  Oda,  Foillanua, 
Chumbert,  Glodesandis.  Is  it  Anglo-Normsn  P 
In  the  litany  is  a  prayer  "Pro  ezerdtn  Fnm- 

9,  At  the  end  is  a  very  long  service — *'  la 
nativitate  B.  M.  Vi^." ;  in  which,  bv  way  of  con- 
versation, we  have:  "Vox  Obiisli  ad  eccleaiam"; 
"  Vox  e<»:lesife  ad  Christum  *'{  "  Vox  spousra  ad 
adolescentuloH."  Were  these  personified  as  in 
miracle  plays  F    Is  this  service  Icnown  F 

J.  C.  J. 


KeiilM. 


(4*"  8.  V.  676  [  vi.  38, 121,  204,  288.) 


as  you  well  know,  c 

only  now  coming  into  the  pies     „  ^ _.  ._ 

the  numbers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  which  Bppe««d  dnr- 

ing  tlie  war,  and  the  No.  144  I  waslongiBg  for 

—God    knows   in  what 


only  just  reached    i 


db,  Google 


il*aTn.  JincBlO,*7L] 


NOTES  AND  QUEJJIES. 


korriUe  cireamattmcM,  when  one's  mind  is  uwet- 
wfaelmed  by  the  noheard-of  eaUmitiea  at  <nt 
belovad  Parij  t  One  can  think  cm  little  ebe,  u 
you  will  emnlj  coBoeive  wbeii — 

"  Proximni  srdeC 
tiolegon  1 " 

aod  that  at  ewj  moment  jou  tnay  leun  th»t 
your  own  house  is  petroltsed  and  on  fire.  Still  I 
must  needs  seek  £)i  some  diversion  to  my  too 
poiflful  thoughts. 

In  spealdiiK  (p-  304)  of  Lord  PalmentoD's  dis- 
susbbI,  I  did  m  tact  tnnscribe  the  note  "literal  as 
it  is,"  and  I  veiy  le^ectfully  Tentme  to  say  to 
your  venerable  cone^ondent  (for,  if  I  esr  not,  it 
wu  EL  L.  S.  vha  eaii  somewhere  in  "N.  &  Q." 
"  I  have  a  more  than  boyish  remembranoe  of  the 
noddy  as  far  back  as  1791 ")  I  see  nothiup  in  my 
BOte  that  could  induoe  him  to  think  "  it  mi^ht 
have  bceo,"  much  lese  that  it  could  "certainly 
^pear  to  him  "  what  the  French  journalists  call  a 
anamunic^ai ;  but  we  are  always  inclined  to  believe 
what  we  wish.  Some  day  I  hope  to  be  able  to 
amanmtiqaer  to  you,  Hr.  Editor,  Lord  Falmerston's 
original  to  Wuewski  by  way  of  proving  my 
"  voucher." 

In  the  first  part  of  E  L.  S.'s  note  (^  288) 
your  worthy  eorretpondent  says,  "The  French 
ambassador  in  London,  who  was  thereby  made  as 
thorough  a  traitor"  &c.;  but  in  the  second  he 
say^  '■WaleiFsld  (whose  innocenct  of  the  coup  is 
a  curious  ingredient  in  the  matter.")  Innocence 
and  tKason  are  far  apart — 

*■  Dtrnm  bantm  msTii  aedpc  t " 

Now  allow  me  t«  transciibe  a  pasaage  from  7K< 
Standard  at  that  period.    It  in  intituled 

■  Explained. — We  have 


□r  the  CI 


the  Mo 


believe  that  the  lollowliie  is  a  ooTTSCt  » 


Icon's  amp  (TAfff,  Connt  WalewAi  uw  Lotd  Pilmentoa, 
■nd  in  the  nay  nf  ooDvenatiui  <citer«l  loto  the  reaaoos 
wbidi  had  iodioed  tbe  Prendent  to  adopt  m  bold  aod 
axtraordiaar}' a  measara,  diicnued  the  preTions  anoma- 
lous state  of  puliva  in  FnmiK  and  the  rival  cUlms  of 
the  Lefcltitnista,  Orleinists.  and  Socialists,  the  aiMrtian 
of  lAMIi  by  either  party  tended  directlT  to  a  civil  war, 
aad  finally  aasni«d  Loid  PabinntAn  of  (he  earaMt  deaire 
of  the  Preriitoit  to  aaaintajn  fHmdly  rdatlooa  with  the 
English  EovBfDDUOt.  Lord  Palmecston  replied  that  he 
had  only  beard  ef  the  coaiff  if  ^ta(  Ibtongh  the  newspapers, 
that  it  was  ndther  tbfl  policy  nor  the  intention  of  her 
MajMT's  government  to  meddle  with  the  intenial  aflUrs 
of  rraooa,  that  oo  dooM  the  state  of  parties  in  Fnntoe 
was  hnmleal  to  the  stability  of  the  Republic,  and  that  it 
uqieared  to  him  the  aBcoass  of  the  Freeident  woold  save 
nance  from  a  dvil  war,  and  was  therefore  preferahle  (o 
the  triampb  of  any  of  the  other  parties.  Thli  conversa- 
tion took  place  benire  any  of  the  details  of  the  coup  dHat 
wan  known  In  Eagiand,  and,  we  believe  Cooat  Wa- 
kwAi  immMliatdy  oemmimleated  the  antartaaoe  af  it  to 
hia  own  goTtaniBent.  Either  on  the  same  day,  or  within 
one  or  two  days  after,  Connt  Wslewski  saw  Lord  John 
Ruaell,  Lord  Lansdowne,  Lord  Grry,  and  Sir  Charles 


.  .  eSect  as  Lord  Palmerston-  A  despatch  a 
wards  arrived  from  the  Harqnis  of  Normanire,  inquiring 
If  we  were  to  recognise  Uie  gamrameBt  of  Loais  Kapo- 
leoD ;  which,  as  a  matter  ei  cooraa,  was  promptly  repllad 
to  in  the  afflrmative  l^'Uia  CablaeL  Lord  Nonnaiiby 
fiinnalty  oommaidcatad  this  aaswer  to  the  French  Foreign 
Office  on  Saturday,  6th  DwHmber.  The  French  govern- 
ment, which  wi«  not  loo  ftiendly  with  the  noble  marquis, 
was  netUed  at  the  dday,  and  took  ooeaaian  to  inform  falm 
that  they  had  been  aware,  lome  dm  previoBa^,  of  the 
Meadly  dispcriticma  of  the  Endiah  CabiDeti  at  the  same 
ttaM  oonveying  t*  him  vecbuly  their  ambassador's  ae- 
ooBOt  tjt  his  convenation  with  Lord  Fslmenton.  Upon 
receiving  this  ioldllnnca  Lord  Norminby,  Ic  is  said, 
wrote  to  toFd  John  Rossdl  In  s  tone  of  complalat.  A 
cotreapondence  therwpen  ensued  beCweao  Lord  John 
HussoII  idI  Lord  PalmarBoai  the  fcrmer  requiring  to 
know  whether  Lord  Palmeiaton  had  had  any  couversa- 
tion  with  CoQDt  Walewski  without  the  previoos  know- 
ledge of  tbe  Cabinet,  and  the  latter  avowing  that  he  bad, 
and  averring  that  it  wonM  be  impooibla  ta  oairy  OD  the 
datiea  of  hia  office  if  the  Foreign  Hlalater  had  to  eosadt 
his  colleignea  prior  to  every  ooBvereation  betwem  him  and 
a  Ibreign  ambassador.  The  resntt  of  this  eOTMSpondcMe 
was,  that  Lord  Palmerston  was  ivqaastad  to  resign— an 
event  which  ws  beUeve  was  as  atartllng  to  every  one  af 
the  Cabtoet,  rotceot  tbe  noble  Pnmier  (though  afterwaida 
sabmitted  to  by  them),  as  it  was  to  the  whote  of  Ennpe. 
It  would  appear,  therefore,  that  Lord  John  Ronell  oon- 
ddered  that  a  Secretary  of  State  for  For^n  AOUrs  is 
not  justified  In  holdiuK  a  conversation  with  a  fonign 
ambaesador  upon  a  suDject  connected  with  hia  depart* 
meat  without  the  previous  sanction  of  the  Cabinet;  but 
that  It  is  competent  to  a  flnt  minister  to  dispense  with 
the  services  of  BO  Important  a  member  of  the  government 
as  (he  Feteign  Sacretaiy,  without  any  prevkms  coroma- 
nicttioD  with  the  Cabimt;  and  to  dispense  with  his  ser- 
vioes  also,  for  doing  precisety  what  the  first  minister 
himaelf  and  others  of  his  coUeagaes  had  done."— 
Sbatdari. 

But,  as  "one  good  turn  deserves  another,"  in 
Feb.  1863,  Loi3  John  Russell,  who  had  thus 
OMted  Lord  Palmerston,  was  beaten  in  the  House 
(see  The  Timet)  on  an  amendment  of  Lord  Pal- 
merston, and  forthwith  resigned. 


P.A.L. 


MURAL  PAINTING  IN  STARSTOS  CHURCH, 

KOBFOLK. 
(4,'^  S.  vi  patsim:  vu.  40,  172,  246,  368,  410.) 
F.  C.  H.  replies  to  m  commuBication  at  p.  410 
wifli  no  little  heat  We»  it  not  ao,  I  might  be 
di^ioeed  to  eipress  a  regret  tbat  anything  should 
have  fallen  f^'om  me  to  awakon  his  aosceptibilitiea. 
As  it  is,  his  tone,  to  ^eok  mildly,  is  soeh  as  to 
wlieve  me  from  any  "  eompunctiona  viritiaga." 
I  liave  "invented,'' says  he,  "anew  theory"  on 
diis  subject  The  old  "theory"  is  not  then,  I 
suppose,  "invented"  by  hims^.  As.  he  still 
cHngB  pertinacimisly  to  H,  it  is  due  to  Kim,  to 
myself,  and  to  youi  readeia,  that  I  should  now 
prone,  what  I  before  asserted,  that  it  ia  atUily 
"  untenable."  ,  ^ 

Rrst,  then,  I  most  lefer  to  t*e  namtive  of  tbe 
"Death  and  Assumption  of  the  Virgin,"  aa  ginn 


bida  me  to  quote  n  eximto.  I  shall  thend'ore  oalj 
take  one  little  pasMge  'which  is  apt,  and  is  of 
itself  destructive  of  F.  C.  H-'a  "  theoiy,"  aa  it 
ahons  that  the  aoul  of  the  Virgin  wta  immedi- 
ately received  bj  the  arms  of  Christ,  therefore  not 
as  m  the  Stantou  painting.  Thus  the  legend, 
"  sioque  Msiis  aoima  de  corpore  e^reditui  et  m 
ukoa  JUii  adEolavit,"  &c  Of  the  interpretation 
that  art  gave  to  the  historj  1  shall  now  ipeak. 
The  subject  has  two  phases ;  one,  the  assumption 
of  the  sou!,  the  other  that  of  the  body.  It  is  of 
cou(se  the  first  that  F.  C.  H.  refew  to.  In  the 
G^tcfe  ofthe  Qreak  Chuivh  published  by  M.I}idion, 
which  coutains  andent  fonauls  foi  the  aitist's  use, 
is  found  this  one : — 

"  A  hooM.  In  the  midrt  tba  holj  Tuigln,  dttO,  Uid 
npon  ■  bed,  tb«  hands  croand  upon  her  breast.  On  each 
aide,  neir  the  bed,  (treat  torches  and  lighted  lapera.  B«- 
fcn  the  bed,  ■  Hebrew,  vhoae  hands,  cut  off,  are  attached 
to  the  bed,  and  near  him  an  angel  vith  a  naked  sword. 
At  the  feet  of  the  holy  Virgin,  S.  Peter  oensing  with  a 
eenaar.  At  her  head  S.  Paul  and  S.  John  the  Evangeliat, 
who  embrace  iL  All  around  the  other  Apoatlea  and  the 
holj  blshopa,  S.  Denis,  the  AreopaKita,  Jerothj  and 
TioiotliT  Mdiiw  Uie  Gospels.  Women  in  lean.  About, 
arul  hebting  u  hu  ongu  tke  toul  of  tkt  hely  Fir^ 
c&AM  D>  wAiff." 

In  Ajfincourt's  Sutoire  dt  FArt,  etc.,  is  an 
engraving  from  a  Rutbenic  picture  of  this  subject, 
date  the  eleventh  century.  It  exhibits  a  treat- 
ment very  similar  to  the  above  formula,  having 
the  incident  of  the  Hebrew,  the  angel  with  the 
sword,  the  Viittin  on  a  bed  or  bier  with  arms 
crossed ;  above,  Christ  within  an  irradiated  aureole, 
holding  the  soul  of  the  Vii^.  Thus  the  narra- 
tiye,  the  formula,  and  the  illustrations  are  in 
accord.  But  to  show  the  per^tence  of  eccle- 
siastical art  conventions,  in  my  copy  of  the  Cata- 
ligut  Sanctorum,  date  1606,  is  a  small  woodcut 
having  the  same  general  treatment,  though  with 
the  omisuon  of  some  minor  details ;  the  main 
featorea  are  the  same,  although  five  centuries 
stand  between  diem.  I  cite  these  instances  as  ready 
to  my  hand,  but  an^  one  having  the  time  will  add 
plenfy  others  to  this  list  in  one  morning's  study 
amongst  the  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum.  In 
France,  the  west  fronts  of  Amiens,  Notre  Bams  at 
Paris,  and  very  many  others,  will  supply  examples 
of  like  character.  In  fact  tiiere  is  no  subject  in 
mediceval  art  upon  which  there  is  less  excuse  for 
error  than  in  this.  But  it  is  a  curious  fact,  and 
M)t  on  the  present  oocaoon,  to  note  that  M. 
Sidron,  in  his  Iconograpfue  Chritiemte,  warns  us 
not  to  confound  the  Assumptian  of  the  Viivin 
with  that  of  Si  Mary  Magdalene.  F.  C.  H.  refoia 
to  two  woodcuts  in  his  possession  representing  the 
"Death  of  the  Virgin,  which  he  says  are  treated 
lihe  the  Starston  punting.  But  he  does  not  m 
if  he  there  sees  the  soul  being  conveyed  by  angels 
in  a  similar  manner.    In  fact  he  implies  the  con- 


inddent  as  corroborative.  So  far,  however,  fimn 
it  being  "  corroborative,"  it  is  of  itself  deatiudiTi 
of  his  ','  theory."  But  for  that  he  miffht  make  a 
esse,  though  a  feeble  one ;  with  that  it  is  linipW 
imposdble,  as  the  narrative  in  the  t^^end  nm 
show.  He  tells  us  the  figure  holding  tiie  scnll 
agrees  with  representations  of  St.  Peter,  Wi& 
the  exception  of  one  point,  the  tonsure,  it  dissgiesi 
with  every  example  I  have  seen,  and  with  tha 
characteristic  type  so  well  known  in  meditevalart 
For  the  latter  I  refer  to  an  instance  in  Mr.  Win- 
ston's work  on  Painttd  Giatt,  as  wdl  ss  to  ths 
brass  at  Upper  Hardres,  Kent,  published  by  my- 
self. Both  agree  with  each  other,  though  of  dif- 
ferent dat«s,  in  that  typical  treatment  by  whicli 
this  saint  is  known.  The  figure  with  clsned 
hands  is  St  James,  but  which  of  the  two  he  aces 
not  say.  It  is  immaterial ;  there  is  no  distin- 
guishing character.  The  figure  in  the  cope  it  Si 
John ;  but  St.  John  is  always  represented,  eiespt 
when  at  Patmos,  as  a  youth  with  nowing  or  coiled 
hur.  I  have  two  tracings  from  ^inted  glsu,  s 
drawing  from  a  figure  in  Henry  Vll.'a  Cbspel, 
and  several  exam^es  from  brasses,  all  having  the 
same  character.  The  figure  in  the  Starston  psiit- 
ing  is  (I  think)  tonsured;  St.  John,  in  myei- 
perience.  is  never  sa  ^t  I  bare  called  the 
cope  a  chasuble.  F.  C.  H.  says,  having  worn  ooe 
for  half  a  century,  he  ought  to  know  whit  i 
chasuble  is.  Very  possibly  ;  but  if  the  chasuble 
was  that  extremely  ugly,  stiff,  ungainly  vestment 
now  so  usually  worn,  I  could  not  be  surprised  if 
he  did  not  see  one  in  the  Stanton  painting.  My 
experiences  are  from  the  thirteenth,  fourteentli, 
and  fifteenth  centuries.  But  why  does  be  sot 
point  out  the  other  Apostles  P  For  instance,  St 
Paul— a  figure  never  to  be  mistaken  in  mediaTil 
art — and  who,  of  course,  he  knows  should  be  pre- 
sent F  I  will  answer :  because  he  is  nof  there- 
Inslead  of  St  Paul,  he  points  out  the  lady  "  Se»- 
pbia,"  on  which  I  shall  say  no  more  than  this:  it 
IS  the  first  time  she  has  ever  made  her  appesrsncs 
in  this  subject,  and  I  doubt  not  it  wu  be  the 
last 

Not  having  the  engraving  by  my  md&  I  nmst 
postpone  a  reply  on  the  points  raised  by  F.  C.  H., 
out  I  will  here  say  that  if  he  succeeds  in  showing 
me  such  weaknesses  in  my  "  '         "  "'" 

it  as  untenable  as  I  have  si 
throw  it  away  at  once  to  follow  his.  Probably  we 
shall  then,  by  clearing  the  ground,  be  more  luelr 
to  arrive  at  the  truth,  and  by  "  indirections  find 
directions  out"  I  trust  it  will  be  long  ete  my 
mind  arrives  at  that  unhealthy,  inelastic  sfsts 
which  would  lead  me  to  hold,  for  a  single  second, 
to  that  which  has  proved  to  be  an  error.  I  ^y^ 
claim,  a  portion  of  your  space  on  a  fiitore  occssiod, 
which  is  the  more  necessary  as  F.  C.  H.,  insinusteff 
a  want  of  good  faitb,  on  my  part,  respecting  the 


d  by  Google 


i*8.Vir.  JusKlO,71.] 


NOTES  AKD  QUERIES. 


*99 


legend  of  St  Marj  Uagd&leiie.    I  shdl  show,  hy 
a  quotation  from  m;  authoritj,  that  it  ia  aa  un- 
wananted  aa  it  ia  unwairantable. 
68.  Bobover  Strea^  W.  J.  0.  WaLLEB. 


THB  PASSING  BELL. 
(4'»  S.  vii.  388.) 
The  peculisritiea  respecting  the  (now  so^-called) 
pasung-bell  are  far  more  numeious  than  J.  A.  Q. 
can  imagine,  both  as  legarda  the  tolling  to  dis- 
tinguish the  sexes,  and  also  the  time,  as  the  fol- 
lowing caaes  wiU  snow. 

At  Bangor  Itcoed,  in  Plintahire,  the  bell  is 
tolled  twelve  hours  after  death,  and  then  the  dis- 
tinction of  five  tolls  for  a  girl,  six  for  a  boy,  seven 
for  a  iTomao,  and  eight  for  a  man ;  and  in  the 
Cheshire  chniches  we  find  that  at  Bowdon  a 
minute-bell  is  tolled  at  six  o'clock  everj  evening 

E receding  the  day  of  interment;  while  at  Wien- 
urj  the  boll  tolls  every  morning  in  the  interval 
between  decease  and  interment,  and  at  ten  o'clock 
for  an  hour  on  the  day  of  the  funeral,  if  requested. 
At  Tarvin  the  bell  is  tolled  the  night  before  the 
funeral  for  jiersons  above  seven  years  of  age,  and 
on  the  morning  for  persons  under  seven ;  atLowet 
Peover,  the  evening  before  the  funeral  for  an  hour, 
from  seven  to  eight  for  six  months  of  the  year, 
and  from  rix  to  seven  the  other  six  months;  at 
the  end  of  the  boor  the  six  bells  are  tolled  each 
three  times  for  a  male,  twice  for  a  female ;  whilst 
at  Aldertey  the  tolling  is  only  for  twenty  minutes 
the  preceding  evening,  when  the  same  distin- 
guishing strokes  are  given  as  at  Peover.  At 
Bredbuty  the  tolling  is  in  the  evening  before  the 
funeral  at  eight  o'clock,  after  which  the  distin- 
guishing tolls  of  five  for  a  child,  seven  for  a 
woman,  and  nine  for  a  man  are  given.  At  Acton 
the  tolling  takes  place  the  preceding  evening,  after 
which,  on  the  smaller  bell,  is  given  one  stroke  for 
a  child,  two  for  a  woman,  and  three  for  a  man. 
At  Church  Hulme  a  bell  is  tolled  the  night  before 
the  funeral  for  an  hour,  after  which  each  of  the 
■ix  bells  is  struck  three  times,  end  three  times 
round  if  the  deceased  be  a  male,  either  a  child  or 
man,  and  twice  round  if  it  be  a  female.  At  Til- 
ston  all  the  four  bells  are  "knocked  round"  in 
-  successiou,  beginning  with  No.  4,  three  limes  if 
the  death  is  that  of  a  male,  twice  if  that  of  a 
female,  each  bell  being  struck  twelve  or  fifteen 
times  in  succession:  and  on  the  morning  of  the 
funeral,  bell  No.  1  is  tolled  for  a  certun  time 
(according  to  dtcnmstancea)  till  the  corpse  is  in 
sight,  when  all  the  bells  are  chimed  tilt  the  pro- 
cession stops  at  the  lych  gate.  At  Eastham  the 
distinction  is  given  by  three  times  three  for  a 
male,  and  three  times  two  for  a  female.  AtBrom- 
botongh  a  different  introductory  ringing  to  dia* 


tingiush  the  sex,  and  then  the  age  of  the  deceased 
in  years  is  tolled ;  while  at  Baveobam,  the  evening 
before  the  funeral,  three  strokes  for  a  male  and 
two  for  a  female  are  given  on  the  four  bells,  after 
which  a  number  of  single  strokes  are  given 
amounting  to  the  age  of  deceased. 

At  Audlem  a  peal  of  three  or  four  bells  is 
rung  as  soon  as  the  funeral  cortige  ia  seen  ap- 
proaching. At  Coppenhall  the  bell  is  tolled  the 
evening  before  a  funeral,  and  chimed  in  the  morn- 
ing when  the  body  comes  within  a  short  distance 
of  the  cfauich.  At  Wettenhall  the  tolling  takes 
place  on  the  removal  of  a  bodv  from  any  house  on 
the  green  for  interment,  whether  at  the  parish  or 
any  neicbbouring  church  i  and  at  Wybunbuiy  the 
passing  bell  is  not  rung  (I  believe^  except  on  the 
death  of  one  of  a  family  named  Coobe. 

"  Trentals  or  trigintals  were  a  number  of  masses, 
to  the  tale  of  thirty,  said  on  account,  according  to 
a  certain  order  instituted  by  St.  Gregory/' — 
Aylifie,  Farergon. 

"  At  Mom  and  Even,  boddea  their  aatheou  nreet. 
Their  veoy  J£tiae»,  and  Ihelr  Complva«  meet. 
Their  Dirges,  tbeit  TrtKlalt,  uid  their  Shrifts, 
Their  Memoiiaa,  ttamr  Siogiags,  and  their  Gifts." 
Spentei's  ItdlAa-  Biibbenr*  Talt. 

Choter.  ROBEBT  MOBBIS. 

Surely  three  times  three  tolls  iiir  a  man,  three 
times  imo  for  a  woman,  must  have  been  explained 
in  some  of  the  former  volumes  of  "  N.  &  Q." 

H.T.R 

An  old  bomily'for  Trinity  Sunday  declares  that 
the  form  of  the  Trinity  was  found  in  mfn:  that 
Adam,  our  forefather  of  the  earth,  was  the  first 
person;  Eve  of  Adam,  the  second  person.  Further, 
at  the  death  of  a  man  three  bells  were  to  be  rung 
as  his  knell  in  worship  of  the  Trinity,  and  two 
bells  for  a  woman,  as  the  second  person  of  the 
Trinity.  See  Fosbroke,  od.  1843,  p.  267;  Hone's 
JEvaydm  Book,  vol.  i.  p.  724 ;  also  Pmny  Cytio- 
padia,  vol  iv.  p.  188.)  Q.  li.  T. 


SEGDOUKE,  SEGGIDDN,  Eia 
(4*  S.  vii.  866.) 
)  one  who  reads  by  what  has  been  called  "the 
false  light  of  Celtic  resemblanceSj"  I  hardly  think 
your  correspondent  EaPBDiSB  will  be  much  edi- 
fied with  my  views  in  regard  to  the  names  about 
which  he  deures  my  opinion.  Sigge  was  a  title 
of  Odin,  and  was  also  a  proper  name  bonie  by  the 
Northmen.  Segdoune,  the  ut«  of  the  abbey  of 
Kilwinning,  Segdoun  or  SeggieduD*  near  Perth, 


*  The  Northiueii,  after  their  ooQTsraiou  to  Chrietiaiilty, 
retained  cartain  rornu  of  their  Idolatrans  wontiip.  It  is 
not  impcnible  that  StggledDii  may  have  dcaignatad  the 
hill  ar  emiiMBce  on  wblcb  ondar  tUa  title  they  wotshlppad 
their  god  OdiD. 


500 


NOTES  AND  QDERIES. 


[l^aTILJoMBlO,*?!. 


now  called  Segrieden,  seem  to  contun  the  Norsk 
personal  name  Sigfte,  and  ScAndinavian  dim  from 
the  Gothic  Wan,*  a.  moontaJn  or  precipice.    Fer- 

ron  mantiona  the  place  called  Siggfthioaite,'^ 
which  he  dtes  the  authority  of  an  ancient 
charter  of  Shap  Abbej.  ThioaOe,  Norwegian 
fffotil,  Danuh  toed,  a  piece  of  land  cleared  in  a 
forest  In  this  we  find  an  explanation  of  the  ter- 
minal portion  of  ihe  Pictiab  place-name  Fodemot, 
abmjrdly  called  Celtic-t  There  b  Sigtun  in 
Sweden,  probably  derived  from  this  appellatiTe 
of  Odin  nsed  as  a  peraonal  name.  "  Gamock," 
Glenp«iio<i,S8walBoNoree,  Many  Scotch  riveis 
are  designated  from  personal  names  of  the 
TJorthmen.  Some  rivera  were  named  from  the 
adjacent  lands,  more  freqnently  place-names  from 
the  rivera.  There  are  the  Gany  =  Scand.  personal 
name  Garj,  and  Crammen  ^  personal  name  Krum,^ 
and  Old  Norae  din,  the  rirer.  Espedajie  dis- 
coursea  of  "  andent  works  of  a  CeUic  race  by  no 
means  uncommon  in  the  district"  'Where  are 
these,  and  by  what  evidence  has  their  Celtic 
origin  been  determined  ? 

Although  not  immediately  related  to  tbe  sub- 
ject of  inquiry,  I  wonld  remark,  in  pasnng,  a  name 
mraitioned  by  your  correspondent,  viz.  "  Edward 
Biom,"  High  Constoble  nnder  David  I.,||  this. 


with  eou«ely  any  change,  being  the  Scandinavian 
Biom.  J.  Ck.  K. 

Cowel  (InlavrsUr)  gives  Segedonum  -  SegbiU, 
in  Northumberland  ;^egelocnm  and  8egelogum= 
Anlert  and  Littleborrow,  co.  Nottingham,  and 
Agle,  CO.  Lincoln;  and  Sigtuna,  Segorbe  (Seg- 
obriga),  Segovia,  Segebeig,  Siegberg,  Seckingen, 
Secienheim,  are  local  name*  in  Continental 
Europe.  Some  of  tUese  may  be  from  A.-8.  mge, 
lege,  ligor,  Ticton",  triumph ;  0.  Norsk  star,  Franc 
at  Alam.  ago.  Fries,  et  0.  Q.  tieg  (whence  the 
proper  names  Sigimerua,  Sigismundua,  Sigebertos, 
Sigericua).  Sige-dun  might  be  rendered  "  hill  of 
victory";  but  it  ia  mote  probable  that  moat  of 
these  geographical  names  are  from  a  river  name. 
Segburg,  in  E.  Pmaaia,  is  said  to  have  its  name 
from  the  river  Sieg  (anc  S^w).  Conf.  Siegen,  in 
Westphalia,  on  the  Sieg  or  Segen-  Siegenbu^, 
in  Bavaria  j  Siegelehach,  m  Baden.  Sieg,  as  a  nrar 
name,  may  be  etymologioally  the  same  name  as 
ray,  tie  letters  (  and  «  and  y  and  o  being  reapoo- 
tively  interchangeable.  K-  S.  ChaBHOCK. 

Gray's  Ion. 

P.S.  S^  i*  the  nam»of  tworiveiaof  Ale«i»F 
and  Sga  of  a  river  and  town  of  Manritaua. 


•  It  is  HdicDlou  to  call  ■  term  Celtic  whiiA  is  found 
in  evcT7  dlslset  of  the  Tentocic  Tbe  Gotbs,  Teutons, 
"'-*-    ~    — '-    Stand iDBvi»na,    SesndinnvUiii!    proper 


_  .  .    ,     ^    a  the  forms  oi 

the  Inst  identicsl  with  ths  Ssnsorit,  from  whioh,  or  from 
gome  dialect  nesrly  rsUted,  sre  deseended  the  Greek, 
Gothic,  and  Slavonic:  far  example,  the  name  of  the  rock 
(now  rmioved)  which  gave  its  name  to  the  town  of 
Dandn  waa  originiUr  called  i)Huli— Sanscrit,  6«thia, 
dimd,  and  tar  a,  Watar,  a  liver. 

t  There  is  also  Scggis,  Einroawhire ;  Se^gie.  Fife :  Sec;- 
giebols,  Lanark ;  Seggat,  Abeideen ;  Seggiecrook,  Banll. 
X  The  name  Teriotdale  fans  obrioiuly  the  sama  origio. 
6  Mn.  CitARHOCK  tells  us  (see  "N.  &  ti,"  4"  8.  iv. 
625)  that  "  the  word  C/m  can  have  none  other  than  a 
Celtic  origin,"  a  statemant  which  I  wonld  connsel  the 
leader  to  accept  mn  gnaw  aalii.  Gothic  and  Icelandic 
gil,  a  ravine  or  Omiire  et  a  moaotain,  from  Norse  gilia,  to 
open  ont,  to  tearasaoder,  Icelandic  and  Danish  definite 
articles  /linn  (in  composition  ini),  en,  CiZ-tnn,  Gii-ot= 
tbe  ravine,  in  the  obsolete  Gothic  ipeech  whidi  mingles 

•  --   --    -     ,.,„..,.^   -,....  ''■.- -"  i-Tghioned 

lepast. 


Gkiy&wrt,  and  a  host  of  others.    Norse  paiMnd  name*, 
Qonnar,  Lofeer,  HnSi,  Arakell,  Flnnr. 

I  llr.i:««n>o  Innei  lays  that,  long  before  this  reign, 
high  offioen  of  suua  and  attendants  of  ths  court  were 
Saxan  sr  Daatah,  of  whom,  amoni;  others  daring  this  Ung'i 


nagn  and  that  of  ills  brother  Edgar,  he  S^ve 
Dlf,  Hemming,  Kanii'-  "-- ~-  •■  -  " 
CaH,OBBa,  *nfc,K 


ng,  Earnnlf,  Otir,  Tbor,  Algar,  Osbam,  Coat, 
.  .  _„_  »*^£llBv.Hwlte,  AlwlQfllBAAII,Osolf, 
Oim,  Dodin,  one  and  all  Scsndliuvlan. 


THE  OEIGIN  OF  AKCHBISHOP  STAFFOBD. 
(4>ii  S.  Tii.  253, 360.) 

The  Tester  of  Canterbury  Cathedral  records 
■w  ite  list  of  obits  there  celebrated,  "  4  non.  Sept, 
Emma  Stafford,  mater  Bni  Johannia  Stafford, 
Archpi."  Her  name,  then,  was  Stafford ;  and  it 
the  archbiahop  was  a  son  of  Sir  Humphmy  Staf- 
ford, he  waa  apparently  a  legitimate  nne.  Snp- 
poaing,  then,  that  Sir  Humphrey  Stafford  was 
his  father,  which  Sir  Humphrey  waa  it  of  Oie 
three  who  follow  in  snoteesion  ? 

Humphrey  (!)  married  the  daughter  and  noi* 

of GreinTil,  and  widow  of  John  Cobham  rf 

Blakeburgh.  She  was  dead  July  12,  1430,  wid 
there  is  a  prosnmptdon  that  her  name  was  Kathe- 

Humphrey  (2),  snmamed  Silverhand,  who  died 
1413,  before  Nov.  28,  married  Eliaabeth,  dan^ 
ter  of  Robert  Cefrewast,  and  widow  irf  J«m 
Maltravera,  junior;  she  died  1413,  the  same  year 
aa  ber  husband. 

Hamphrey  (3)  mSnied  Eliiabetb,  dao^ter  woA. 
coheir  of  Sir  John  Maltravers  and  Eliiabofli 
above-iw»ed,  between  1386  and  1398;  she  died 
after  1417,  he  in  or  about  1410. 

John  Stafford  was  ctmsecratad  Ardibuiiap  of 
Canterbury  in  1443,  aucoeedingCbidiel*,  and  died 
May  35, 1462.  Tbe  evidence  of  date*  tends  to 
show  that  be  was  the  son  of  No.  2  (if  of  tU« 
ftmily  at  all);  and  that  No.  S  most  have  bad  n 
former  wife  before  Elisabeth  Cefrewast  is  tm- 


tttS.TU.JtnrBlO,7L] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


draed  oertain  from  the  connderatioD  tiiat  No.  3 
would  otherwise  hava  married  his  own  mUei.  1 
have  not  seen  Eliiabeth  Cefrewast  called  D'Au- 
maile  before.  How  the  Touiiger  Elizabeth  Mal- 
traTeis  came  to  be  called  Dynham  was  ap^arentlj 
by  confnrang  her  with  her  titter}  for  Sir  John 
HaltraTera  and  EUzobetb  Cefrewast  had  twn 
dughten— Maude,  who  nwiried  (1)  ^  Peter  de 
k  Uare,  (2)  1398-1400,  Sir  John  Dyuham,  and 
died  «.  t>.  1409  or  1410,  and  Elizabeth  Staffiird. 
Elizabetn  was  originally  affianced  to  John  Lovel 
(.Bo*.  FoL  10  Ric  II.  Part  i,),  and  was  unmar- 
ried Not.  23,  1386  (tfi.)  A  grant  was  made  to 
Enmphrey  de  Stafford  and  Elizabeth  his  wife, 
with  lemuuder  to  Humphrey  de  Stafford  la  fflz, 
and  Elizabeth  Ats  wife,  Oct  1,  1397  (Rot.  Pal. 
21  Ric.  II.,  Part  I.)  On  Jan.  7,  1402,  mention 
is  made  of  "  John  Dynham,  Chi',  et  Matilda  uz' 
ejus,"  with  the  additional  iiiftKination  that  "  E3ii- 
aWfa,  wife  of  Humphrey  Stafford  of  Honhe,  Chi', 
holds  ot  the  heritage  of  Hie  end  Matilda"  (ItU. 
iW.  3  Hen.  IV.,  Part  I.)  Another  grant  to  Hum- 
phrey Stafford,  mil.,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  ap- 
pemBFeb.l,1417(-Ho(.Po(.4Hen.V.)  On  Nor. 
28, 1413,  we  read  of  the  elder  Humphrey  and 
EUzftbeth  aa  "jam  mortui,"  and  of  thejoangar 
Humphrey  as  snirrving  (A.  1  Hen.  V.,  Part  it.) 
Lastly,  the  inquis.  p.  m,  of  Elisabeth,  widow  ri 
Humphrey  Staffort^  was  taken  14  Hen.  IV. — 
1  Hen.  V.  [1418.] 
Now,  Humphrey  (No.  2)  oan  scarcely  have  had 

:{■-  -ft..^  Elizabeth,  seeing  that  she  died  in 

r  as  himiself.    Was  Alice  Beville  a 


any  wife  after  Elizabeth,  seeing  that  she  died  in 
the  same  year  as  himiself.  Was  Alice  BeTille  a 
fcffmer  wite  F  or  was  the  formw  wife  the  Emma 
of  whom  we  are  in  search  P 

If  I  do  not  occnpy  too  much  of  your  space, 
allow  me  two  further  remarks  to  P.  A.  L.  The 
wtograph  of  a  Stafford— namely,  Humphrey, 
created  Duke  of  Buckingham  in  1444,  will  be 
found  in  Oott  MS.  Oalha,  B.  I,  fol.  249.  Ooe  of 
P.  A.  L-'e  Bentencaa  has  "  ezercised  "  me  greatly. 
He  says  the  document  is  "headed  with  the  name 
of  the  Duke  of  Bedford  (not  John,  the  Regent  in 
France,  but  Aif  brother  artd  euccetior  as  OoTemcff 
of  NormandT)."  Will  he  kindly  tell  me  whom  he 
means  by  tbe  words  in  italics  ?  John  Duke  of 
Bedford  hod  no  brother  of  his  own  title. 

Hbkhxmisuds. 


BDBK8:  -MCHT  GODE-WILLIE  WAOCHT." 
(4«  8.  Tii.  386.) 

Not  one  of  the  numerous  editors  of  Bums,  and 
not  one  of  hia  uinotators,  so  far  as  I  can  see,  have 
properly  set  up  in  type  this  lamiliar  expression, 
which  oocura  nowhere  else  in  Scottdah  song  except 
in  the  world-fcmous  "  Auld  Lan?  Syne  "  of  Burns, 
"taken  down  &om  the  ainging  of  an  old  man." 

It  is  a  matter  of  very  smsjl  moment  whether 
the  common  Scotch  wOTd  "  wauckt "  be  spiled 


with  etag.  X  would  prefer  the  «  in  this  and 
nmilar  words,  as  showing  the  more  ancient  style ; 
but  either  way  is  quite  proper.  I  might  go  otcc 
the  whole  alphabet,  and  select  from  each  letter  a 
word  in  the  Scotdah  dialect  with  the  same  gut- 
tural Boni^  which  may  be  spelled  by  using  either 
tAari/h.  For  instance,  amchty  or  aaghty  for  eighty, 
baiKhlo-thoon  or  hatighk-A»m  for  sboaa  worn  out 
of  shape,  ehudU  or  elaugH  for  caught  hold  of, 
diekt  or  di^U  for  wipe  up,  faucH  or  f aught  for 
fought,  and  so  on.  The  w<nd  looh,  ngniffing  lake, 
ii  often  spelled  lough,  and  the  proper  name  L«ch- 
lan  or  McLachtan  ia  just  as  cA^i^elled  Laughlan 
or  UeLaughiaa. 

My  present  oli^ect  in  wriling  ii  to  pmnt  out  to 
your  readeis  that  there  ia  no  such  word  in  the 
Scottish  dialect  as  "  willie-wancht"  True,  it  is 
btTaiiably  fomid  ao  pciuted  in  all  ezistiiig'  editions 
of  Bnnw^  including  even  that  of  the  critical  Dr. 
Hately  Waddell ;  but  this  only  shows  how  very 
if!norant  modern  Scotchmen  are  rerarding  the 
■adeut  dialect  of  their  country.  Had  Bums 
liTed  to  edit  the  printing  of  his  own  song,  "  Auld 
I^ng  Syae,"  the  word  "willie-waucht "  would 
never  have  been  seen  nor  heard  tell  of.  It  is  not 
to  be  found  in  Jamieson's  SooOuh  Didionary. 
The  word  "waucht  c*  wanght,"  a  copious  drink, 
will  be  fotmd  there ;  and  the  word  "  gudewiUie," 
with  a  rood  will,  is  there  also.  A  "  good-wiUie 
wanght '' therefore  means  a  copious  libation,  tiJcMi 
with  good  will.     The  great  error  of  editors  and 

Erinters  lies  in  absur^y  placing  the  connecting 
yphen  betwe^  viilU  and  mmcht  instead  of  be- 
tween gudt  and  wUUe.  If  an  Englishman  were  to 
express  in  writing  that  he  took  a  "  willing  drink  " 
or  a  "  baar^  drink  "  of  e^i^^>us  liquor  on  some 
happy  occasion,  he  WoiUd  sevw  eoiineot  these 
words  like  Siameee  twins,  aa  printers  have  hitherto 
done  in  recording  this  ricfa  phrase  of  Bums — 
"  Oudewillie  waugbt."  In  like  manner  it  ia  per- 
fectly unnecessary — nay,  it  is  an  error  to  do  so 
in  transcribing  the  phnse  either  in  Scottish  or 
German. 
I  have  been  &voured  with  a  glance  at  the  proof 


sheets  of  an  editkHi  of  Bums  shortly  to  proceed 
from  the  preas  of  Mr.  Jomee  H'Kie  of  Eilmai^ 
nock,  and  I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  poet's  happ^ 


>hraae,  which  forms  the  aubgect  of  tliia  note,  la 
ihare  oorrecUy  printed. 

I  may  state  that  in  Johuon't  Mvteiun,  whue 
"  Auld  Lang  Syne  "  first  made  ita  appearance  a 
few  montha  after  the  poet's  death,  the  phiaae  is 
printed  thus — "right  gode-willie-waught"  This 
is  better  than  the  usual  renderiog,  but  tbe  lost 
hyphen  is  a  printer's  nror  calculated  to  mialead 
the  reader.  The  Scottish  epithet  "  ill-willie," 
used  08  a  prefix  to  man,  woman,  bum,  dog,  ftc, 
is  quite  as  comnum  aa  its  converse  "  gude-willie." 

Ediobuisb.  D  gnzeo  'byVj  tltjy  IC 


stand  nor  try  to  underatand  Temaculw  Scoteli. 
"  He's  Tale  gude  willie  "  (he  is  reallj  good-hearted) 
is  a  most  common  form  of  expreeuon  in  the  Low- 
lands of  Scotland,  and  most  persons  bom  north  of 
the  Tweed  know  that  "  h  gude  waucht,"  without 
the  intermediate  term  "willie,"  means  a  heart; 
drink.  "  Oude-triSM  waucht "  soggeste  somethiDg 
more.  It  means  a  hearty  drink  accompanied  with 
jovial  feelings ;  in  the  slang  of  the  day  "  awfiilly 
jolly,"  oTwSowin^  with  a  sort  of  drunksD  kind- 
new  engendered  m  those  who  having  imintmd 
ratlieT  more  than  anfficient  are  disposed  to  be 
friendly  with  every  body.  Men  b^Kune  sanli- 
mentM  as  the  blood  circulates  with  greater  rapi- 
dity. "  Auld  Lang  Syne  "  was  seldom  song  until 
"  after  men  had  well  drunlc,"  and  just  before  the 
company  broke  up.  J.  Ck.  R. 

W.  T.  M.'a  (wmmaoication  having  been  quoted 
into  the  Glaegow  Herald,  I  replied  to  it  at  some 
length  there  in  the  first  inst&nce,  and  now  beg 
very  briefly  to  sum  up  the  facts  of  the  case  for  the 
informatioD  of  your  correspondent :  — 

I.  There  were  oii^iinslly  three  US.  co|nes  of 
"  Auld  Lang  Syne,"  m  the  hands  respectively  of 
Johnson,  Thomson,  and  Curne.  In  ineir  several 
editions  the  phrase  stands  thus — "  gude-willie- 
waoght,"  "  gude-willie-waught,"  "  gude  willie- 
waught"  In  Thomson's  second  edition,  1821,  he 
seems  to  have  revised  his  former  reading,  and 
adopted  Currie's ;  at  least  I  find  the  words  quoted 
from  him  as  they  were  printed  b^  Currie,  "gude 
willie- waught"  Whether  the  original  MSS.  agree 
or  differ. on  this  point,  not  having  seen  them,  I 
cannot  say ;  but  these  editiona  are  the  only  public 
authorities  we  now  have  to  rely  upon,  and  al- 
though one  editor  might  give  a  wrong  reading, 
two  would  not,  three  could  not. 

3.  Jamieson  has  been  misquoted  by  your  corre- 
spondent W.  T.  M.  to  some  extent ;  and  Jamiesou 
himself  baa  misquoted  Bums,  The  extent  of  the 
misquotation  may  be  ascert^ed  on  reference. 

3.  There  are  such  words  in  Scotch  ss  "  ill- 
willie,"  "  Ul-deedie,"  &c-i  hut  no  such  word  as 
"  gude-willie."  "  Ul "  is  an  adverb,  and  may  be 
conjoined  as  above  with  adjectives ;  "  gude  "  is  on 
adjective  itself,  pure  and  simple,  and  cannot,  or  at 
least  should  not,  be  so  conjoined  with  another  ad- 
jective, as  "  wiUie  "  is.  Bums  certainly  would 
not  have  committed  such  an  error;  and  if  any 
MS.  of  hie  should  eeem  to  justify  tbst  reading, 
it  must  have  been,  I  should   think,   by  mere 


4.  "  Willie,"  OS  an  adjective,  combined  with 
"  waught "  indicates  the  strongest  mil  or  deter- 
minatioD  to  drink.  "Hearty  is,  perhaps,  the 
only  English  word  we  have  for  it ;  but  it  means 


improperly.  Bums  did  not  use  the  letter  e  ir 
such  words;  he  knew  the  power  of  his  awn  Un- 
guj^,  in  all  its  details,  better. 

These  being  the  umple  facts  of  the  cue,  I 
think  proper  to  submit  than  in  reply  to  W.T.  M.; 
but  beg  leave,  once  for  all,  to  decline  any  cootro- 
versy  on  the  subject,  more  especially  with  .an 
anonymous  correspondenL 

P.  Hatblt  Waddsu. 

Elmgrovs  Place,  Glaagow, 


R.  P.  BOKINGTON. 
(4"  a.  vii.  141.) 


**  La  valeni  n'^tend  pu  la  DOmbn  dea  snQ^as." 
I  think  I  con  unhesitatingly  affirm,  having  often 
been  aseured  of  it  by  some  of  his  bent  friends — 
^u«n  Rivet,  Mr.  Montfort,  Mr.  A.  Oolin — ^at 
Bonington  wrote  his  now-renowned  name  iril& 
one-n  only. 

I  was  intimate,  too,  some  forty  years  ago,  with 
a  I^nch  gentleman  a  longtime  rcMdent in  Londos 
— Mr.  John  Lewis  ]^wn,  jun.,  of  Bordeaux,  who 
was  then  the  fortunate  poasessor  of  as  many  as 
168  of  the  finest  water-colour  drawings  by-  that 
admirable  and  fertile  bond,  and  on  none  of  them 
have  I  ever  seen  the  name  written  otherwises 
Not  so,  however,  with  spurious  cues,  of  which, 
alas  I  but  too  many  have  been  mode  "tosatis^ 
the  avidity  of  collectors,  to  remunerate  the  skiU 
of  copyist*",  and  gratify  the  cupidity  of  dealers." 

It  waa,  if  I  mistake  not,  in  1838  I  saw  an 
exhibition  in  Regent  Street  wholly  of  Boning- 
touB.  I  used  to  go  there  and  study  them  for 
bouts,  "ss  if  increase  of  appetite  bod  grown  W 
what  it  fed  on."  So  mucn  so  that  Bonington's 
father,  who  at  the  entrance  delivered  the  catai- 
l<^ue  and  received  the  ahilling  fee,  senable  tA 
my  admiration,  at  last  refused  to  let  me  par. 
He  asked  me  to  bis  lodgings,  where  he  cooll 
show  me  many  imfinished  sketehes  by  his  deat 
departed  son.  With  these  were  acme  copies  t^ 
the  father,  likewise  for  sale,  but  so  inferior! 

Speaking  of  this  gifted  yonth,  may  I  be  allowed 
to  relate  what  once  passed  between  him  and  the 
French  historical  painter  Baron  Qros,  in  whoee 
studio  our  young  Engliahmon  learnt  to  draw  from 
life,  on  his  first  arrival  in  Paris  P  After  a  whiia, 
the  master,  dissatisfied  with  his  new  pujdl's  inde- 
pendent way  of  treadng  ait,  said  to  turn  one  daj 
in  his  rough  and  ready  manner,  "  That's  all  non- 
sense ;  you  are  uselessly  wasting  jour  tiaaa  «id 
your  parents'  money.  You  had  Mtttt  ^^Hty 
mind  to  something  else."    Fancy  |Mf^ 


db,  Google 


**  S,  VIL  Ju.ti  10,  71.) 


MOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


'with  his  meiu  dteinior,  heuiug  Buck  a  candenuia- 
tion  t  Howefer,  a  short  time  after,  Oroa  hap- 
pened to  psas  hy  ft  theu  veil-known  and  hand- 

aome  picture-dealer's  ahop,  Hma.  H ,  who, 

unfortnnateljr  for  the  levera  of  art,  took  too  great 
a  hold  on  dear  Bonington's  heart,  for  — 
"iShe  talk'd,  ehe  imil'd,  his  heart  die  «yrd. 

She  cbuin'd  his  tcoI  be  wut  na  haw ; 
And  »j  tha  alound,  the  deadly  woaod. 

Cam  fra  ber  Ben  sae  bonnie  blue." 

There  the  baron  saw  in  the  ahop  window  t 
TBTj  deverlj  painted  Tiews  of  Roueo,  Caeiij  and 
other  towns  of  France  and  Belgium.  He  was 
much  Btruck  with  their  wonderfullj  bold  touch 
and  true  affect  of  chinroacuro ;  not  leaa  ^touiahed 
iras  be  on  bearing  from  the  fair  vender  that  the 
author  was  no  other  than  the  joung  iosulaire  he 
had  jndged  ao  aeverelj.  So  the  next  Aaj,  aittiog 
down  on  Bonington'a  atool,  in  the  atudio,  bv  wa; 
of  correctiug  his  work  after  a  living  model,  he 
looked  un  benevolently  in  his  face  (and  he  could 
do  BO  wbeu  he  liked,  as  much  as  anjone)  and 
said,  "J'^  vu  bier,  Rue  do  laPaix,  da  granda 
deasins,  des  int^rieura  de  villes  en  Normandie. 
On  me  dit  que  c'est  de  vons  ?  "  Bonington,  with 
some  trepidation,  owned  them  aa  hiB.  "  £h  hjen  I 
mon  garfon,"  retorted  the  master,  "c'est  bien, 
maij)  tr^bien.  Je  toub  en  fais  monsiucto  com- 
pliment. Aliens,  allona,  je  Tois  que  toub  avez 
trouT^  votre  voie.  Suivez-la ) "  and  softening 
down  hia  voice,  and  putting  out  bis  hroed  light 
hand  to  the  astonished  and  delighted  youth,  he 
added;  "  Dor^navant,  vous  viendrez  ici  tant  qu'il 
TOUB  plaira,  et  je  n'enteods  pas  que  cela  voub 
conte  rien." 

This  I  heard  from  an  old  camarade  d'alelier  of 
Bonington,  who  was  present  at  the  time. 

I  am  sorr^  to  say  I  am  not  acquainted  iritb 
Bryan's  Dictionary  of  Paiatert,  and  possibly  tiia 


taU  guide. 

FLAG  OF  THE  SEW  fiEEMAS  EMPIRE, 
(l"-  S.  vii.  322,  416.) 

I  have  no  doubt  that  Mb.  Wooswakd's  account 
of  the  new  flag  is  true,  and  the  readera  of 
"  N.  &  Q."  and  of  the  nonsense  which  I  quoted 
fiom  The  Globe  and  The  Timeg  will  be  obliged  to 
him,  as  I  am,  for  answering  my  query.  I  have 
not  Men  the  correction  in  The  Qwo-diaa  to  which 
W.  J.  L.  refers 

Mi-ParU. — It  is  a  very  small  matter;  but  I 
cannot  agree  with  Mb.  Wooowars  about  Panwite, 
and  do  not  therefore  think  that  I  am  mistaken.  I 
lutTO  the  Wamenbtieh  before  me.  The  extreme 
uncertainty  of  engraving  the  horizontal  line  of 
division  in  shields  makes  it  quit«  reasonable  to 
fluppoae  the  division  which  we  see  in  Panwitz  to 
have  been  made  to  look  mi-parU  in  error.  Spener, 


referrina:  to  this  plate  at  the  reference  Riven  by 
Mb.  Woodwakd,  certainly  does  not  cil  it  so. 
His  marginal  note  ia  "Tnpartita  in  partes  ina 
qualea."    After  saying  "  Non  aliena  ah  hoc  Iw 


1  giving  inatances, 


leqnalBS  facit,"  I 

"  Hiiiiu  exempla  enaenrraDt  ilia,  nt  bad  nlgne  im- 
positum   caput  deitrS   parte  mbeat,  uaistrS   aigento 

■pleadeat et  inveraci  taotam  slta  minii  et  ■nrenti 

Weilers  [Hass]  Panwiti  [SU^]." 
He  refers  to  the  Wa^tenbuch  plates. 
After  this,  the  contmuator  of  Guillim  puts  in 
Panwitz  as  I  quoted  it  at  p.  322,  not  rcdarring 
to  the  Wappmthuch,  but  giving  authority  later 
than  the  urat  issue  of  that  work.  I  thiiik  Pan- 
witz may  be  taken  to  be  as  Ouillim  gives  it. 

I  have  to  add  that  I  have  found,  since  I  wrote 
at  p.  322,  a  note  of  my  own,  made  many  yean 
ago,  which  I  bad  forgotten,  ^ving  an  example  of 
mi-parti  in  England.  It  is,  or  was,  for  I  aaw  it, 
in  the  apandrela  of  the  porch  of  the  old  parsonsga 
at  Milverton,  near  Taunton.  The  abield  was — 
Coup«,  chief  mi-parti  aahle  and  argent;  in  dexter 
ide  a  flower  of  four  leavea,  gules  and  argent ;  in 
iniater  a  quatrefoil,  or  and  aahle )  the  base  sable, 
quatrefoil.  I  suppose  the  cba^  in  the  dexter 
ide  differed  from  vtm  others. 
I  also  have  a  book-plate,  signed  in  handwriting 
with  the  name  "  Prosaer,"  which  diowB  mi-partt, 
all  three  areas  being  without  tincture ;  in  dexter 
chief  a  fleur-de-lys,  in  ainiater  a  tower,  in  base 
the  sea,  and  a  aea-horse  Bwimming  pierced  throngh 
the  neck  with  an  arrow — all  proper.  Burke  doea 
Dt  give  this  coat.  D.  P. 

Stuarls  Lodge,  Malvern  Well*. 


BRITISH  SCYTHED  CHAEtOTS. 
{4'»  S.  vii  95,  240,  332.) 
I  looked  np  this  point  some  time  since  on  read- 
is  e  curious  passage  in  Mr.  Smiles'  Indtatrial 
Biogr^hy,  p.  13  {1863):— 

"When  tbe  Romans  invaded  (Britain),  tlig  metal 
(iron)  seems  to  have  been  alraady  knavn  to  the  tribes 

■long  the  coaet. We  mnst,  however,  regard  the 

sCoriee  told  of  the  ancient  Britiab  chsrioU  armed  with 
swordaor  scj^hee  as  alto^ther  apocr}-pbaL  The  eziM- 
~  of  iron  in  sufficient  qoanttty  to  be  UMd  for  nieh  a 
,  .  ciee  is  incompatible  with  cooleciporary  facta,  and 
unsnpported  by  a  single  vestige  remaining  to  our  time. 
The  conutr;  was  then  mostly  Ibreat,  and  the  roids  did 
not  a*  yet  exist  npon  •rhieh  ehariata  could  he  need; 
whilst  iron  was  Coo  acarce  to  be  mounted  aa  scythes  npon 
chariots  when  the  warfiora  tbemielves  wanted  it  fbr 
swords.  The  orator  Cicero,  in  a  letter  to  Trebatins  than 
serving  with  the  army  la  Britain,  saroastlcatly  advised 
him  (0  esptnre  and  convey  one  of  theee  vehicles'  to  Italy 
fbr  exhibition  ;  bat  we  do  not  hear  that  any  specimen  of 
Che  British  war  chariot  wu  ever  seaa  in  Boms,'' 

Here  ia  a  notable  coniWon.    The  author  is  sure    ■ 
there  was  not  enough  iron  for  acythes— and  rirhtly  >  |  Q 
no  doubt — and  ao  he  says  there  could  not  nave  '^ 


r'te  impoaeible  to  discredit  Cnsar's  tegtimon; 
ut  the  chariot  (eiiedum,  emedarii),  B.  O.  iv.  33 ; 
T.  19,  for  hU  atauments  axe  plain  and  pceciae, 
Bud  upon  a  matter  Dotorious  to  every  man  in  hia 
aimy.  If  such  teatimony  may  not  be  tniated, 
wh»t  mayP  But  then  Cbw  «a;s  aothi^  of 
scjtiiefl  or  ima.  Almost  precuelj  the  same  may 
be  said  of  the  testimony  of  Tacitus  (Aancola, 
36,  36),  who  calls  the  chariot  coviMa.  He  is  a 
carefiii  'miter,  and  he  must  hare  known.  Hs  ssys 
(like  Uieear)  "coTinarii  peditum  se  pnelio  mis- 
cnere."  He,  too,  mentions  no  scythes  nor  iron. 
Tho  ordinary  references  for  the  eitedum,  eaeAt, 
eiMdorn  are  Cicero, .^ip. Die. vii.  6,7;  KaaEpp.ad 
.^«!um,Ti.l(end),andOro(.PAa.ii.24i  Vii^, 
Oeorg.  iii.  204  (cf.  ConiiiKtoD's note  adtoc.);  F%T- 
wuB,  7i.  47  ;  Procwrt.  ii.  1,  86,  and  iii  24,  5 ;  SiL 
Ital.  iii.  337.  What  Cicero  does  say  {Epp.  Div. 
yu.  7)  to  Ti«batiua  is ;  "  I  hear  there  is  neither 
gold  nor  silver  in  Britdn ;  if  that  be  so,  I  advise 
yon  to  catch  an  tueAim,  and  drive  back  to  me  as 
soon  as  possible  '* ;  in  another  he  saja,  "  Take  care 
you  arenot  taken  in  bv  the  charioteers  in  Brittun," 
aa  if  he  knew  all  about  them.    Elsewhere  he 

raks  of  the  chariots  in  Rome,  of  n  man  "cum 
>bus  eesedis";  "  tribnnos in  ewdo."  The  eon- 
niM  is  mentioned  (Locan,  L  4S6 ;  Martial,  13,  34) ; 
he  couples  it  with  the  etaedam  and  emruea  as  a 
pleasure  carri^ ;  nowhere  any  mention  of  aeythes 

But  Pomponins  Mela  (iii,  6,  5),  the  geographer, 
says,  "  Covinna  vocant  quorum  falcatis  aiibos 
utuntur,"  and  he  is  speaking  of  the  Britons.  He, 
I  snppose,  is  responsible  for  the  story.  Surely  his 
evidence  is  not  good  agunst  the  eye-witness 
Ceeaar,  nor  agMnst  Tacitus.  He  compiled  from 
books,  and  probably  made  a  mistake  by  transfar- 
ring  tiie  Eastern  scythed  chariots  to  the  Brit^ms. 
Livy  (xxxvii,  41,  6)  speaks  (A  the  "  falcntffi  quad- 
rigtB  "  of  Autolochua,  and  Xenophon  {Anab.  L  7 
and  8)  aays  the  king  had  300  and  Cyrus  had  twenty, 
iffiara  tptwant^ifa,  scythe-beariog  chariots.  These 
is  the  battle  were  soon  tttrk  ^lijpti  in  tha  rout 
The  Qreeka,  h«  addB,"opeited  out"  when  they 
saw  one  coming ;  one  man  was  knocked  down 
as  on  "a  race-coune,"  and  it  was  said  that  even 
he  got  no  harm.  If  Livy  and  Xenophon  have 
BO  much  to  say  of  the  scythes,  would  Cnsar  and 
Tadtos  have  omitted  them  if  they  had  any  exist- 
ence P  DJodoroB  Sicolua  (vi.  21)  compares  the 
Biitdsh  chariots  to  those  which  were  said  by  tra- 
dition to  have  been  used  by  the  heroes  in  the 
Trojan  war.  Woald  not  he  have  known  these 
Eastern  chariots,  and  have  compared  tiie  British 
chariots  to  them,  instead  of  the  Bomerie  chariots, 
tuless  he  had  known  that  the  British  chaxiots 
had  no  acytbes.  O.  W.  TuroooK. 


Dream,"  of  which  he  aaid  "the  n 
breathes  through  every  line  of  it "  -,  but  the  DDveTa 
dedication  to  Sir  Walter  Scott  hews  date  Londm, 
Dec.  23, 1831.  It  is  probable,  therefore,  that  it 
came  out  on  Janoary  1, 1833.  I  have  before  me 
an  American  edition,  with  an  epistolary  prefiaee 
by  the  author,  bearmg  the  same  date — London, 
Dec.  23,  1831.  I  bouffht  it  at  Uanila  in  183S; 
so  Lewd  LyttoQ  can  see  nis  wo^  made  much  wsy 
in  a  short  time.  His  Pelkam  I  read  in  America 
in  1828.  P.  A,  L. 

Lancashibb  Witckbs  (4*  8.  viL  237,  Slli 
417.) — The  Yorkshire  ladies  rejoice  in  tha  sobri- 
quet of  "Yorkshire  wenches."  Whilst  ^ztid- 
pnting  two  years  since  with  the  Archaeological 
Institute  in  the  bOB{UtBlity  of  the  Duke  of  Devon- 
shire at  Holker,  I  used  the  phrase  "  Lancashire 
witches"  to  a  fair  damsel  who  sat  next  to  me. 
"Oh  not  I  am  not  a  witch,  I  am  a  Yorkahiie 
wench."  A.  J.  DoircDr. 

Pops's  Efixiph  ok  Sib  Qodpeet  Kreujek 
(4*  S,  vi.  176,  262.)— Speaking  of  that  of  Raf- 
faelle,  D.  P.  rightiy  saya  — 

**  Bat,  in  or  aboat  1B3S,  had  b«ai  added  saother  insmp- 
tion  comnHnumtiiu  the  disoaveiy  of  the  body  of  Bat- 
faelle  in  Seplflmbei  that  year." 

I  h&Te  a  lithograph,  now  rather',  a  scarce  one, 
made  by  Horace  Vernet  at  Rome.  He  was  at 
that  time  Director  ot  the  French  Academy  at  the 
Villa  Medid,  and  with  hie  father.  Carle  Vernet, 
accompanied  the  pope  and  Cardinal  Lambruachini 
to  the  Pantheon,  where,  under  an  altar,  were 
discovered  the  mortal  lemuns  of  the  immortal 
d'Urbino.  P.  A.  L 

Ok  thb  Abbbncb  or  Asr  Fsxhoh  Word  soft 
"to  Ribb"  (4"'  S.  viL  431.)— I  venture  to  say 
Ma.  Blbhkinsopp  is  mistaken  in  supposing  ther» 
is  no  French  word  for  "  to  ride."  We  say  oU- 
vaucha;  "Agnes  lassa  de  chevaucher,"  Volt. 
"  Chevaucher  court  ou  long" — "To  ride  with 
short  or  long  stirrups." 

Then,  as  to  FrencbmeD  declining  to  ride  with 
the  honnds  because  they  can  only  "  se  Bn»nenai 
&  cheval,"  I  fancy  Count  d'Orsay  would  have  pro- 
tested. Ask  Lord  Chesterfield  or  Sir  Q.  Gnnt, 
the  president  of  the  Royal  Academy.    And  all  I 


was  then  a  mere  lad,  I  kept  on  horseback  from 
seven  o'clock  aji.  to  seven  f.k.,  returoiog  home 
in  the  dark.  1  shall  nerer  ftwget  how  mucli  I 
rajoyedmyselfthatday,uor  theyoXnpIgot — to  use 
a  French  expreeuon — from  an  uncle  of  mine  (not 
an  Englishman),  who,  thinkiBg  I  must  have  tiSaa 
in  some  ditch,  sent  grooms  and  coachman  to  seom 
the  country  ^ter  me.    And  when  he  saw  me  ba 


db,  Google 


4»S,Tn.Ji)«10,'71.] 


NOTES  AKD  QUBBCBS. 


506 


and:  "If  you  do  not  miod  joaraeH,  I  wiih  you 
would  mind  my  hortes."  IEb  wife,  <wi  the  wkor 
lund  (a  tborongli  £agltah  wosiau),  thought  I  had 
shown  some  apuuk,  and  gare  me  sn  encouragi^ 
look.  Then  again,  wo  may  be  "-volatile,"  ^ 
probably  wte;  etill  methinks  we  can  "stand"  a 
good  deal  after  all.  See  what  we  are  going 
through  in  Franco  since  a  year :  flrrt  that  horriUa 
German  war,  and  secondly  tbia  still  more  horrible 
social  war.  Who  would  have  belkved  it  P  And 
we  may  well  say  -with  H.  Heine :  — 

"  Uod  leh  gUabt'  ich  tmg  «  nimmer, 
Und  ich  gUDbl'  ich  ting  «  nie, 
Und  ich  bib'  ea  doch  getragen, 
Ab«,  tngt  mioh  nor  nichl  wia  1  " 

P.  A.L. 
JiTBioiii  Oiiaa  (4">  S.  vii  209,  364,  44a)— I 
beg  that  Q.  will  forgive  me  for  miaapprehending  his 
meaning,  and  for  my  unneceaaary  remarks  on  the 
aabjecL  What  he  meant  is  now  plain,  but  he 
must  anfier  ma  to  say  that  it  was  not  quite  so 
before,  or  I  eouid  scarcely  haTB  so  completely 
misonderstood  him.  The  waapon  which  he  used 
Wis  capable  of  cutting  two  ways,  and  I  should 
Iwve  held  my  peace  hid  he  indicated  a  little  mow 
clearly,  to  begm  with,  which  side  he  intended  to 
employ.  HKaiiBMTEtiBB. 

Cbmto  (4'»  S.  Tii.  267, 358, 44S.)—mth  regard 
to  the  crest  on  the  HeT.  John  Ricbatds'  tomb 
(1688-9)  I  am  inclined  to  think  it  cannot  be  token 
"as  proof  of  holy  writ."  I  knew  a  gentlonan, 
lately  deceased,  who,  haring  no  ermt  of  hie  own, 
adopted  that  of  his  wife's  fasoily  on  his  plate  and 
carnages,  notwithstanding  the  objectiinjs  started 
W  the  latter,  because,  thought  he,  it  looked  well. 
Od  his  tomb  has  lieen  engraved  his  coat  of 
arms  vith  tMii  a-ettj  and  no  doubt  some  hundred 
years  hnee  this  will  libewise  be  given  aa  a  case 
""  point-  P.  A.  L. 

GtOMB  Loinwic  (4*  8.  vii.  236,  335,  444.)— 


Osin  nmrnu  MooQiman  {i/^  &.  n.  363, 416.) 
Our  ancestors  took  wise  precautions  to  preserve 
their  bodies  from  the  assaults  of  these  pesta — t.  g. 
among  the  goods  (rf  the  Abbey  of  Sawtre  there 
wss  found  at  the  dissolution  in  the  "  New  Cham- 
ber.— The  bedstedd  with  a  net  for  knattes."  {Ar- 
chaoJogia,  xUii.  240.)  Edwasd  Peacock. 

The  ^t  of  mosquitoes  bdng  imported  in  ships 
I  have  myself  witnessed.  Irecollect  whenpasung 
the  Straits  of  Salayer,  the  captain  causiiiK  the  lid 
of  alorge  water-cask  on  deck  to  be  opened  for  our 
use  —  we  Ikftd  hitherto  had  so  mosquitoes  on 
board — when,  lo  and  behold,  myriads  oi  these  ne- 
farious iasecta  sallied  ft^rtb,  and  from  that  moment 
we  bad  no  rest.  They  must  have  been  bred  spon- 
taneously in  the  water.  P.  A.  L. 

I  have  occasionally  seen  insects  in  the  South  of 
England  which  were  identical  in  appearance  with 
the  mosquito  of  the  East,  but  I  never  experienced 
their  Btiiig.  The  latter  is  inflicted  by  a  minute 
proboscis,  through  which,  in  attacking  the  human 
subject,  the  insect  both  injects  poison  and  with- 
draws blood,  wherewith,  if  crushed  at  such  a 
time,  the  little  vampire  is  usually  found  to  be 
gorsed.  This  power  of  drawing  so  thick  a  fluid 
as  numao  blood  through  a  microscopic  tube,  not 
exceeding  in  diameter  a  human  hair,  is  one  of 
nature's  innumerable  marvels.  It  was  stated  in 
TIk  Timet  of  July  27,  1868,  that  the  use  of  wild 
rosemary  will  keep  off  mosquitoes.        C.  W.  M. 

MAKSAmr  FxHiiLXS :  Loni  Moktiiibb  (4"'  S. 
viL  12,  228,  318, 487.)— After  Tswaks's  excellent 
reply  no  question  need  be  raised  any  mm«  as  to 
Margaret  Tendles.  I  had  pointed  out  (p.  818) 
that  Fendles  was  an  impoasible  name,  and  that 
the  Noblaa  gave  no  name  ftom  which  it  nrald 
.uced  by  Engbsh  ingenuity  or  bluo- 
derinr;  but  that  Fienlea,  which  must  soon  have 
gained  a  (J  in  England,  brought  us  very  a 


am  glad  to  be  sble  to  answer  that  Rebecca,  flist  f'endles.  This  turns  out  to  be  tbe  real  name,  with 
wife  of  Richard  Woodward  (married  about  1704),  ^^^  alternative  of  Hennes,  which  I  suroested,  I 
was  a  daughter  of  Oeorge  London ;  and  if  you     ^*^  ^°*'  K^esa  to  Vredins  nor  to  the  Trophiet  to 

will  refer  to  Na  620  of  3ie  JuwTiei  offfirterf.        "'    '  "  "       " 

<wif  for  the  present  year  you  will  find  a  long 
noticQ  of  Qeorge  London,  relating  manj  incidents 
of  his  life,  the  part  he  look  in  effecting  the  escape 
of  the  Princess  Anne  to  Nottingham,  and  also  a 
copy  of  his  autc^raph.  It  also  states  that  Loudon 
was  bmied  in  Futham  church  in  the  grave  of  his 
second  wife.  Robeet  Hooe. 

W,  St  Geo^s  Roid,  Pimllco. 


ai.  WtiiFRAir  (4"'  a  viL  16S,  969,  335,  444.) 
The  life  of  St  Wul&aa  oontained  in  the  Cotton 
MS.  Otho,  D.  viiL,  was  consulted  by  me  when  I 

Church  I^tiuture,  p.  88. 
hishcni  of  Sens,  and  has  bi 
fin  of  1731. 


which  LoKD  OoBT  obligingly  refers.  It  still  re- 
mains to  inquire  as  to  the  arms.  Fienlee,  or 
Fiennes,  camea  the  coat  given  W  Vredins.  But 
I  meatiosed  (pp.  318-9)  that  this  was  not  the 
coat  of  the  Anglo-Norman  Fiennes  fanoUy.  In 
England  they  certainly  bore  three  lions  nunpanl. 
Can  TxwABS  aar  what  coat  was  borne  by  Ingram 
de  Fiennes,  who  married  Sibetla,  daughter  of 
FaraniDs  de  Soloma,  and  with  her  had  the  manor 
ofClaphamP       ■  D.  P. 

Stuarts  Lodg%  HiJvern  Welb. 

Dkdi CATIONS  OP  CnrKCiiM  (4*8. vii. 388, 480.) 
These  are  given  in  Ecton'e  TheKums  and  Browne 
Willis's  Paroc/uole  AtiffUcimum.     The  Bishop's 
Registers  should  be  consulted  where  AesewoAi)[p 
fail.     Maccbszie  E.  C.  Waioott,  B.D.,  F.S.A.  S  ^ 


*  Yn,  uid  bscb  agaio,'  ' 

*  Hold  up  Itie  ^tea  »  high  u  the  skf , 

And  let  King  George  sad  hii  train  paaa  bjl'" 

The  above  lines  were  those  of  mj  childhood, 

which  was  passed  in  London,  Herofonl,  and  Can- 

terbui;.    I  cannot  remember,  therefore,  in  what 

countj  I  first  learnt  them.  R  A.  D. 

Torqq«7, 

Suhdials  {4*  S.  ril  324,  399.)— A  very  ioter- 
eating  article  on  sundiala  will  be  found  io  the 
Zeuure  Sour  for  June  1, 1670.  W.  Mabsh. 

7,  Bed  Lion  Square. 

"  AjfiiiA  Cbisii  "  (4"-  S.  vil  322, 374.)— Who- 
ever was  the  author  of  this  prayer,  it  certainly 
was  not  S.  I^cnatina ;  for  in  a  collection  of  prayers 
which  I  have  bound  upwith  a  32mo  copy  of  the 
Sarvm  Breviary  (Para  Hyemalia,  A.n.  1520),  it  is 
^ven  as  an  "oratio  poet  elevationem  "  to  the  fay- 
ing, of  which  "  conceduotur  iij  dies  iaduleentia- 
rum  a  Joaooe  papa  xxij."  As  John  XXII.  was 
Pope  bom  1316  to  1334,  the  prater  is  at  least 
two  centuries  older  than  S.  I^atiua.  Whether 
the  comparative  nearness  of  this  pope  to  S.  Thomas 
Aquinas  (died  1274),  and  the  fact  that  it  was  he 
who  canonized  the  saint,  suffice  to  establish  the 
letter's  authorship  of  the prayer,Imaat  leave  others 
to  determine.  I  have  beard,  though  I  cannot 
sajr  on  what  authority,  an  EngUth  origin  assigned 
to  it.  But  it  SMms  to  me  much  more  probable 
that  both  S.  iRnatiua  and  Pope  John  should  be 
scjiaiunted  with  the  production  of  the  great  Do- 
minican than  with  a  peculiarly  "Rnjfliah  prayer. 
With  all  deference  to  F.  C.  H.,  1  would  suggest 
that  Jesuit  reluctance  %o  adopt  Dominican  compo- 
ritions  is  nihil  ad  rem.  If  S.  Ignatius  picked  up 
the  prayer  somewhere,  and  placed  it,  as  he  did, 
in  his  book  of  Spirituai  Exerciia,  its  popularity 
with  the  Jesuits  ie  easily  accounted  for.  It  is 
more  difficult  to  reconcile  its  comparative  disuae 
among  the  Dominicans  with  the  authorship  of  S. 
Thomas.  Sabisburisnbis. 

DXTOITBHIRE  WoRDg  f4*  8.  rii.  429.1 — 1.  Cfome 

(crocket^),  perhaps  anotoer  ortbograpny  of  iwm. 
[Grose  nves  doom,  coarse  earthenware.  Exm. ; 
and  Hamwall  o^rn,  earthenware, Devon;  chmer, 
a  maker  of  earth«iware ;  eUana-baaa,  bq  earthen 
pan.] 

2.  Jlf(iunJ(ahamper),t.7.theScottiBhmMn(I- 
a  hand-faaaket,  from  A.-S.  mandt  Dan.  id. 

S.  Stam  (of  hay  or  straw),  from  the  French 
tommf,  Lat.  ernnma  for  tauma,  taugma,  tagma, 
cifiia,  from  aiftit,  to  load.  In  Essex  a  seam  of 
com  is  eight  bushels.  Bloont  renders  mama 
avtntg,  "  a  seam  or  horse-load  of  oats." 

R.  S.  Chabitocx. 

Qtay 's  Idd. 


uenoure,  "tne  rangs  couam,  wno  somrea  mm. 
(Calendarnim  Gmuaiogiaim,  pp.  261,  744;  But. 
Fat.  7  Edw,  1.)  She  was  apparently  the  daugh- 
ter of  Peter  de  Geneville,  or  Pierre  de  Qeneve,  a 
blood  relation  of  Queen  Eleanor  of  Provence 
through  her  mother,  Beatrice  of  Savoy.  The 
other  Alexander  de  Baliol,  whom  Avolo-Scotcs 
calls  Sir  Alexander  of  Cavers,  married  Isabel, 
elder  daughter  and  coh«r  of  Richard  Fittroy  or 
de  Cbilham  (oatural  son  of  King  John)  and 
Roisia  de  Dovor,  heiress  of  Cbilham.  She  was 
widow  of  David  de  Strabolgi,  Earl  of  Athole, 
and  died  at  Cbilham  Castle  in  1293.  There  is, 
therefore,  nothing  strange  in  her  burial  in  the 
Undercroft  of  Cuiterbury  Cathedral,  where  h« 
obit  was  annually  kept  on  April  17  (Register  of 
Christ  Church,  Canterbuir,  Arundel  MS.  68). 
She  left  issue  two  eons — John  de  Strabolgi  and 
Alexander  de  Baliol.  Sir  Alexander  of  Caveta 
was  living  on  April  8, 1398,  when  ha  was  "jour- 
neying to  Scotland  in  the  king's  service  "  (Sot. 
PaL  26  Edw.  I.)  I  thought  both  these  Alexan- 
dera  were  brothers  of  John  Balioh  Who  ms 
Clementda  de  Balliol,  precentrix  of  Elveetow 
Abbey,  and  afterwards  abbess  P    Her  election  was 


FixzSTR&THBBiTB  (4"'  3.  u.  392,  451.)— A  per- 
son bearing  this  name  baa  been  iuquired  about  in 
"  N.  ft  Q.,"  and  is  thus  written  about  in  the  scan- 
dalous chronicle  of  a  Hiaa  Cary,  1836,  3  vols.  8ro, 
London:  — 

"  The  aon  of  ■  gnve^di^er  at  the  OrknefB  ....  he 
■ttUd  hlmaelf  to  be  the  Hn  of  the  Dake  of  Kent.  Hr. 
FiUatntherne  u;>  he  i>  in  piitnerahip  vitb  Mr.  Enigfat, 
a  solicitor.  He  'can  imitate  any  handwriting,  and  ihej- 
forged  the  tetter  to  which  Her  HajesCr's  [Qneen  Chai^ 
lotte'B)  name  was  affixed ;  that  letter  was,  and  I  am 
aljll  poajlivelv  anured  ia,  in  (be  handa  of  Ur.  Knight- 
Mr.  FitzalTathema  having  recently  Boapected  tiiit  soma 
of  hii  miiideeda  are  likely  to  be  made  public,  uid  it  mat- 
tera  not  what  a  maD's  name  ia  while  he  ta  virtnom  and 
hia  conduct  is  correct  Hia  aasumed  claim  to  the  blood 
of  rojraltj  ia  beat  explained  bj  stating  that  hie  motlwr 
was  never  out  of  Suttland,  and,  with  the  exception  of 
Hi*  Mweaty  upon  a  recent  occasioD,  not  ono  of  the  loyal 
family  baa  ever  been  there.'" — ToL  iii.  App.  xvU. 

BOHBTT. 

Old  Soues  and  Ballads  (4,""  S.  vL  47,  3U ; 
viL  398.) — I  can  fully  endorse  Mb.  Jaceboh's 
BsaertioQ  as  to  the  wretched  dc^^grel,  not  to  say 
filthinesa,  of  many  of  the  original  songs  to  the 
melodies  employed  by  Bums  and  Mooie.  Doabt- 
ISM  some  few  are  harmless  enough,  but  as  a  rule 
they  are  better  consigned  to  that  oblivion  which 
they  now  enjoy.  I  have  a  pret^  good  tmrinkling 
of  old  BODg-books  on  my  snelvee,  and  saoold  be 
happy  to  convince  anyone,  by  pereonal  iiupeotion, 
'of  what  I  moat  unheaitKtiiigry  aver. 


happy  b 
of  the  t 


d  by  Google 


l^S-TlLJosBlO,-:!.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


The  ideaa  of  our  grandfatheTs  and  gnuidmotheTit  as 
to  what  was  presentable  and  what  was  not,  dif- 
fered coDsiderablr  from  oura  upon  the  same  point. 
I  do  not  think  that  we  should  allow  our  children 
free  accem  to  the  pages  of  Allan  Ramaaj's  Tea- 
TMe  MtKellam/,  jet  the  editor  eipressl;  ssjrs  in 
his  pre&ce : — 


might  m 


«  and  can  of  thi 


Some  few  of  the'originala  of  Moore'a  Melodies 
are  ^leserred  in  translations  from  the  Irish.  I 
mar  instance  Walsh's  version  of  "  The  Twieting 
(rfWie  Hope"iiiLoTer'sXyrib»qf /reionrf,  p.  310. 

With  r^{;ard  to  many  of  the  tunes  mentioned 
hj  Mb.  Blair,  thej  were  origitiall;  dance  tunes, 
and  have  no  old  words.  This  can  not  only  be 
proved  from  various  sources,  but  is  evident  from 
the  simeture  of  the  melodies  themselves,  which 
shinra  that  Ihey  were  oompoaed  for  some  instru- 

The  oldest  Scotch  tunea  are  to  be  found  in  the 
Skene  MS.  (See  Daunej's-^lnctm/  Scotuh  Mdo- 
dki.)  The  earliest  Irish  tones  (if  we  exclude  two 
or  three  trivial  collections  of  dance  tunes  of  the 
middle  of  the  last  century)  are  those  noted  down 
byMr-Williani  BuDtJng,and  which  suppliedMoore 
witb  the  music  for  his  celebrated  Melodiei.  Had 
it  not  been  for  Bunting  and  the  late  Dr.  Petrie 
(who  ^ve  the  poet  a  few  tunes),  the  memory  of 
the  Insh  music  would  have  been  but  little  more 
than  as  a  departed  dream,  never  to  be  satisfactorily 
realised.  Edwabd  F.  Bimbault. 

SmUBTGoDOLPHiB  (4"'S.  vii.SfW,  J69.)— The 
poet  of  this  name  was  surely  the  brother  of  the 
Lord  Treasurer,  "  a  ^oung  gentleman  of  incom- 

Chle  parts,"  according  to  Clarendon,  who  gives 
a  very  high  character,  both  in  his  Life  and 
in  the  Hutary  of  the  SebeUion.  He  was  bom  in 
Cornwall  in  1600  or  1610,  and  was  educated  at 
Exeter  College,  Oxford.  As  he  was  killed  at  the 
attack  of  Chagford,  in  Devonshire,  Jan.  1642-3, 
he  can  hardly  be  called  (eupposinK  it  to  be  himi 
"  one  of  the  wits  and  poets  of  Charles  II.'s  reign." 
He  translated  the  fourth  book  of  the  Miuad,  in 
i^ch  he  was  asristed  by  Waller.  It  was  printed 
in  1668,  and  included  in  Diyden'e  Miicdianiet 
(edit.  1716,  iv.  134.)  Many  of  hia  lyrics  are  pre- 
served in  MS.  They  are  remarkable  for  prettiness 
of  thought,  if  not  for  great  vigour  of  expression. 
Edward  F.  Eiiibaiii.t. 

Sib  Johh  Povfbll  (4»  S.  vii.  466.)— If  Mb. 
Fbxsb  has  no  objection,  I  will  answer  hie  query, 
as  perhaps  the  author  of  EmmaU  H'eitAmat  ma^ 
not  see  "N.  k  Q."  The  fallowing  extract  is 
tijcen  from  Dr.  Thomas  Rees'  Deteriftion  of  Sotdh 
ITflfaf,  p.383:— 
'■  At  a  ibort  diaUuue  to  the  vertnrd  of  LaaghariM 
■n  the  rMusins  of  Boadteay  Hmur,  th«  Mat  of  Sir  John 


who  preaidMl  at  the  trial  of  the  uvea  blahapo,  in  the 
ni^  of  James  II.  The  put  he  took  an  thit  occasioii 
BgainBt  the  Court  csosed  hu  diamisMl  from  his  utaatlan. 
He  died  in  1696  at  the  sge  of  liitf-three,  *Ddwsi  buried 
in  the  church  at  Lnj^bame,  where  U  a  mouiimentaiected 
to  his  memor;.    The  inscription  gtateg  : — 

"Stiennai  eccleaic  defensor  fbeiit.  TeaUa  il  septem 
ApoatoUd  Frssnlee,  qooB,  ob  Chiisti  fidem  RjitiCer  vln- 
dicatam,  ad  tpeiiu  IVibunal  acdlos  intrepidus  cbaolvit." 

Such  is-  the  only  notice  I  have  aeon  of  this  up- 
right judge.  If  Mr.  Fbbbb  or  any  other  reader 
of  "  N.  a  Q."  would  like  to  test  the  accuracy  of 
the  above,  hia  shortest  course  will  be  to  stop  on 
the  South  Wales  Ridlway  at  Ferryside,  to  cross 
over  to  Llanstephan  by  boat,  to  walk  two  miles, 
when  he  will  find  himself  in  view  of  Laughame 
Castle,  and  an  old  man  ready  to  cany  him  on  bis 
back  across  the  river.  T.  S. 

AiBBt,  Frbrb,  ahd  Fsuk,  Sdbhavbs  (l"  8. 
vii,  386,  447.)— I  think  Mb.  Rooer  indicates  the 
true  source  of  the  above  names,  seeing  that  there 
is  an  English  form  in  the  surname  Are,  north  of 
England,  and  Scotch  Air  and  Icelandic  .<4r«son. 
Bi^op  John  Areson  at  Hoolum  established  tiie 
first  printing-press  in  Iceland.  X.  S.  A. 

Trinity  Honse. 

KiTBELHTo  js  Pbaybb  (4'^S.*vii.  437.) — A 
Concordance  would  have  satisfied  C.  A.  W.  that 
so  far  from  kneeling  being  a  feudal  custom  which 
came  in  about  the  eighth  century,  we  are  ex- 
horted in  Psalm  xcv.  to  "  kneel  before  the  Lord 
our  Maker,"  that  Solomon  knelt,  faA  that  Daniel 
knelt  tbree  timea  a  day.  I  admit  "  to  fall  down 
before "  is  a  commoner  Scripture  phrase  than  to 
kneel;  but  that  standing  waa  the  only  Jewish 
posture  no  Scripture  reader  wiU,  I  think,  allow. 
P.P. 


StiiittXiKamH. 

BOTES  ON  BOOKS,  ETC. 

ScattiiA  Lilargia  oftht  Beign  oJ^Jama  VI.  Tht  Booit 
<^  Common  Fragtr  and  AdMmUtroliaa  of  At  Sacnt- 
rmO,  tuOS  bUkt  Rita  cad  Ortmotda  of  tht  Chwdi  of 
SenOand,  om  U  nxu  Irtf  doanu  alfint,  befate  tht  Oxangi 
thereof  made  by  ye  Arehb,  of  Canterbitrte,  and  aeni  bach 
to  Soollaiid.  (From  a  3fS.  in  the  Britiih  Jtfwmni.) 
Aim  OH  earlitr  Draft  prrpartd  btfort  the  TVohUci 
caMttd  by  Ote  Articlet  of  Ferlh.  (iVui  a  MS.  n  tfit 
Adeoeatt*'  Libninf),  JSdU*d  leith  a»  lalroditclum  and 
Notf  by  (At  Bev.  W.  Spnitt,  B.A.  (Edmonston  and 
DongtM.) 

This  ample  title-page  shows  so  folly  the  naton  and 
coDtents  of  this  lltue  volmne  and  Its  bearing  upon  the 
history  of  the  Epbeopal  Chnreh  In  Seotland,  at  to  reader 
■□7  detailed  account  of  it  nnneowsinr.  Oar  raadan  are 
■wan  that,  ailar  the  BefbimaUto,  the  Prayer  Book  of 
Edward  tiks  Sixth  was  uad  in  public  wonblp  by  the 
Church  of  Scotland  nntO  It  was  snperaeded  by  the  Book  i 
of  Common  Order,  or  Knox's  Liturgy-    In  1601  other  |  C 


the  E«T.  AleModer  Inrin,  and  d«cribed  aud  jmtU  of  it 
pHnUd  bv  faim  la  TAi  Britah  Magaxiiw  for  lSU-6.  For 
ita  publiMtion  in  iU  pnnnt  form,  wich  the  aooomimjitig 


desin  to  ilndf  the  biatoiy  of  tb 


ID  £<f  I'rii 


luiKfrtd  la^mbliihal  Letttn,  atd  alicr  Hew 

MaUrialt  colltcHd  u.  part  *y  tht  lalt  Right  Hon.  John 

WilKin  Crokor.      Witi  /iKrodncKoM  and  Sola  by  the 

Be*.  Wbitweli  Elwin,      VoL   VII.      Corre^mvkxct, 

VoL  II.       With    Fortrmtt,    ant   ot/ier    Illiatn^ont. 

(Mnmr) 

Thii  new  and  impartant  edition  of  the 


lish«d.    Tb«  0 


»  of  which  It  i 


*' Correspondence,^*  and  contai  as,  first,  one 
bnodrod  and  filtr-nx  letters  to  aad  from  Swift  and  olban, 
from  17i3  to  1741;  next,  fonr  letters  between  Pope  and 
Bolingbrokei  thirty  letters  between  Pope  and  Gay, 
dal*dliet«een  1712  and  1732  ;  eight  letters  betwoen  Pope 
and  Paraeil,  ftnm  1714  to  1717  ;  and  laatly,  eighteen  let- 
ters between  Pope  and  Dr.  and  George  Arbnthnot,  from 
1714  to  1743,— and  of  all  these  letters,  it  moit  be  renem- 
hercd,  there  are  a  great  namber  wbicb  either  ia  whole  or 
in  part  are  not  in  the  edition  of  Roscoe.  The  volume 
may  not  perhaps  contain  so  much  new  matter  aa  some  of 
those  which  hiTcr  preceded  it,  bat  it  is  marked  by  the 
same  careful  editing  and  full  and  jodicloos  illostration. 

Mr.  Abhbbk'b  Oocasiosal  Fao-simii.b  RKTRUtrs. — 
We  bave  already  brought  under  the  notice  of  our  readers 
sereralorUieserleaof  Beprints  of  short  priated  tracts  of  a 
tniscalUneous  character,  which  Mr.  Ashbee  has  produced 
In  fac-simile  with  a  success  which  makes  them,  to  all  in- 
tents and  parpOSBS,  satisfactory  substiUitn  for  the  original. 
We  have  now  five  more  of  theaa  before  as,  nsmdy-.— 
Tlie  IMoU  amd  Slrjife  betttme  Samir  awd  Wynter,  from 
thflorlgiDU  bladc-letttt  tract,  "Imprynted  by  Lawrsns 
Aadrew."  2.  Treatyie  of  Ihit  Galamt  with  tlir  Marya^ 
of  the  Bout  of  Billgngigate  unto  Londm  Slav,  also  in 
black-letter.  8.  A  JVno  Pla^  coHnf  Canterburie,  Aii 
Change  ef  Diet,  ^c,  from  the  original  published  in  1641. 
4.  A  Certain  Relation  of  the  Uogfa^d  GeiOleieoman  called 
Mhtrfi  Faimaitr,  Stmker,  S(c.  16S0;  and  5,  sad  last, 
The  Merry  Caxeited  Hummrt  of  Butom  the  Weaver, 
from  Kirkman's  edition  of  1661.  We  lielieva  if  the 
lilerarr  history  of  this  droll  was  thorongWy  InTwtigaled, 
it  wontd  throw  considerable  ligbt  upon  a  curious  chap- 
ter In  tbe  history  of  the  English  Drama.  Our  readers 
need  scarcaly  be  reminded  tbat  these  reprints,  which  are 
limited  to  100  copies,  are  to  be  proenred  for  shillings 
where  the  original  tracts  wonld  cost  pounds. 

SOTAI.  InarimrioH  of  Gbeat  Britaih.— At  the 
general  nonthtv  moHing  on  Hoaday,  Sir  Frederick  Pol- 
foek,  M.A.,  Tice-Pmident,  m  the  chair,  Mr.  Silas  Kemball 
Cook,  Miss  Elinor  Martin,  Mr.  Charles  Bland  Eaddifi'e, 
M.D.,  and  Mrs.  Eaddiffe  vreie  elected  membere. 

Pakis. — It  is  npsftad  that  nearly  all  the  mi 
pieuM  of  the  CekoiM  Vendume  hare  been  leoaTsred 
that  it  will  be  no  rery  diSaiU  matter  lo  bring  abw 


says  The  Ttmi£  nMdal 

witb  tka  mine — which  ahall  bs  rrtiuilt,  which  pulled  dewm, 

and  which  lift  standing.  OBeprDpoaal,whiohfiikdaItTOMr, 


H6le]  de  Vllle  in  a  sqnare,  and  let  it  stmd 
,  ruin  and  illuAralisn  of  the  naoBer  in 
wbick  ttw  most  advanced  philoaDphical  aad  phSanllHe^ 
"ess  of  the  present  afn  find  their  highest  nTprn»i»n  aail 
Itimate  development." 

Tub  cluUeaa  of  the  Harqnis  Laplace  at  AroMJl  Caehaa, 
hich  escaped  the  Prassi&oa,  bas  bets  plaDdtred  by  a 
band  of  bousebnukers  from  the  Uouffelard  district.  tW 
oscripts  of  the  celebrated  astronomer  were  dirown 
the  Bi^vre,  from  which  the  eriginal  of  Tlii  Medrntatm 
_  \e  Heatteia,  in  the  anther's  handwriting,  baa  aohae- 
quently  been  fished  out.    The  library,  whicb  waa  rich  in 


a  fire  at  Alexandria.  Tirginia,  on  the  19th  alt.  wis 
datroyed  the  old  Court-hoose  of  Fairfax  county,  erected 
iportod  bricks  in  1748.  In  this  boildiag  tbe  Britidi 
troops  were  bamHiked  after  the  eaptore  of  Fort  NeoeBa^ 
in  17M,  »id  hum  it  the  foroa  ef  Braddock  Bandit  to  tiM£t 
memorable  defeat  in  1755.  For  fiftv  yean  it  wai  bmiliai 
with  the  footsteps  of  Geo^;e  WasLinirton,  and  tinder  ita 
roof  he  cast  bis  Isst  vote  In  tT99.  The  old  AlaXaudiia 
Maseum,  which  contained  many  relics  of  WadungtOD, 
was  burut,  but  the  relics  were  saved. 


BOOES   ANB    ODB   TOLUHES 
VAiiTBD  TO  ptntcaisx. 


fiattai  to  CoTtedpanlunU. 

Joan  or  Arc— irAm  r^erriiv  Mr.  Hoili.  Bad- 
CUFFE  (anti,  f.  Vi9)  ta  M.  Drlrpiirrt't  primteiy  pHmttd 
Donte  Historiqne/or  wforaatim,  rtipteling  Jom  of  Arc, 
vit  oniitled  to  itols  that  the  eaay  it  jmblithed  u  tllol  aem- 
tleman't  intereiting  Toltme,  tntiUed  Historical  DilScnlties 
and  Contested  Ereats,  recieieed  in  "N.  i  Q."  i^AptH, 
1868,  4*  8. 1.  881. 

A.  H.  Batks  (Edgbaston.)  A  more  ntrrtel  iwistsa  of 
JtMft"TeaTtoftheCrueU"apBemndai''S.li<i."l'' 
S.I.I72. 


«  vecal "  rand  "  voweL" 


db,  Google 


«kSLTn.jDni7,7io  N0TB8  AKD  QUB&IES. 


lOKDOy,  SJltPRDAT,  JUJfS  If,  Wl. 


CONTENTS.— H«  181. 
NOTB81  — OOli  von  BBrllehlQgBn,  Ut— APrinf«r^ 

J5.  —  Lord  Ertklns  —  Steel  Eograi 

london  la  Octoboi     " "-■-■-  ■ 


Artbut-j 

imbo:  Clod  Beer— Collectigiitbr  tHii- 
"Ei  Lone  lAunUum"  —  Andsot 


lloBuluid- 
d  Bead"  -  He 


Steel  Eograving  — "HlbWU''  — 

-ontyPolntsofPliitr^Hn.Hir- 

;iwka.  ■BHUW  —  Hemorul  Bells  at  St.  DauUa'i 
Slepmy  —  TvaUj  PorlniU  ~  Uv  1>V  X  OitOrd,  MO. 
QUBRIBSi-'-Agmli 
■luir  WalD"— Bumti 

ii.  M  — ji^oKiiiiokiir,  tha  Bcduw  —  BubiwI  Hanndar 

—  VUkuUv  aoaOarljle  —  Uedallia  Qaan  —  Miltoo'i) 
Polk  Lore  — UonoUth  at  UMrus  —  Anoruot  BiddtM— tbe 
Septnisiiit  —  Thomu  Simos  —  iamta  Sm jth  o(  WMIehUI 

—  Bnop  — "  The  Bone  of  SokmoD  "  —  BWioti  Jama/  V»j- 
lor-S«1bjFamll;,Eia. 

BBPLIB81  —  Bood  Bcreeai  in  Bnffolk  Churchia,  S18 — 
Huial  P»lnUnB  in  Staniton  Church  SorfoltBlI— *  Jack  " 
BnrtOD,  018— FOMrj'  of  Use  dooaa.  Jb,  — Bcahn.  BIB  — 
Harrlami  of  EoglM]  l>riiKeiH*,  BiO  — Ortd,  "  UeUok" 
1IU.IM:  "Beiucalor,"E21— Sua-dUllnwrlptloiu— ?■■- 
I<VOT  Faile««— nannrokantliilpaud:  "  Sieving  In  tbdr 
own  Gnn "  —  ObildrMi'a  Oama  —  "  The  Wind  baa  a 
LannUK^  Ao.  —  Cookes:  CookeaV:  Cooke  —  Anotber 
Old  J^dni  — Pnncli:  Janloaaod  the  State  —  OrMn  of 
tbeSnniaraeOaDiiliieiiiin— "Tbs  Thnndanr  "  —  Huaan 
Ear.  a.C.  Ualurin  or  " Barral-orgam  Faaie"      •*— 


!3i3! 


•ho  I)jor  —  Samplera  —  Gone  - 
— "TUrtrllVanAhSBMeiBb* 
1  Qneeii  M  ScoW  impriMmmei 


"  Conwa  to  Orlef" — Pontan  CbwgW  or  NanH*  — "  Drum  " 
an  Branlae  Futj,  to.,  6)&, 
Notoa  OD  BoDka.  ke. 


q5tz  ton  BEELICHINGEN. 

tliits  or  Gottfried  Ton  Berlichinfen,  ot  Ber- 
InciuDgeD,  sumuned  "of  the  Iron  Hand,"  ie  best 
hnovn  to  us  bj  Gothe's  dnuns  or  ^Sir  Walter 
Scott'a  tiaosbtion  of  it  Very  lately  the  well- 
known  pbilolc^st.  Dr.  W.  H.  J.  Bleek,  has  dia- 
covered  a  very  interesting  historical  document 
lelatine  to  him  in  the  shape  of  an  inscription  at 
the  end  of  an  old  manuscnpt  volume  in  the  Orey 
Library  in  Cape  Town.  The  manusciipt  Tolume 
in  t|ae8tion  is  a  very  curious  one,  "  vrltten  in  the 
fourteeotk  oentniy."  I  qnote  tke  iroida  of  Dr. 
Bleek  :— 

"It  MDtaliia  lenaiu  from  UwGopdi,md  la  hiefalj 
■nniDfMtcd  with  ver^  qailat  nintatnra  E)d  iaKlalB  in 
gold  and  eoloniB.  Th«  pnwM  tdndbw  t»  evldaatly 
oilginal,  and  (h>in  the  word  >  AmoTb«ch,'wbh)fa  appears 
Ibm  tinMi  onlliB  Btanped  c«r«T,  tadi«ates  that  tbe  Tolame 
tinnMilj'bdaneedtotfaeCanvmtafAaimbacborABnner- 
b«k  in  the  OdewaM,  notr  tba  nridance  of  tbs  Prfnee  of 
Lftelngva,  a  new  relative  of  Qaeen  ViMotfaV 

The  Inscription  in  question  fixes  the  precise 
time  dming  the  peasant  ww  of  his  presHioe  at 
Amcvbach.  A  panilH&ent  leaf  attndiea  to  the  end 
cover  of  this  volume,  in  the  wfittng  of  the  firat 
part  of  the  rixteenth  oantnry,  hmn  the  following 
insoiption^— 

■■  Anno  do.  1,&.SS  facta  at  desolatla  halm  Rbri, 


«•  nomin*  •(  alio  nutlcaoe  feds  antnlRnaiM  Qeoi^  a 
Balletibacgb  lacio  arte,  (aotii  aero  et  actiboa  homine  per- 
fido,  latroae,  et  proprii  hoDorla  prodigo,  oieri,  nobilitadc^ 
ac  propiil  domini,  contra  evangdlcas  toclus  qnoqne  lUk- 
turalls  iegh  enortionea  perseqnntore  tofaitiaBlmD,  eode- 
ilamm  fnrapet  et  nligiontWii  loaoron  deviMatore  et 
'  irmiaatora  atrodvimo." 
la  the  7«ar  1525,  oa  tha  eve  of  FhUip  and  Jame^ 
there  took  place-  the  spoliation  of  this  book,  which  was 
covered  with  gold,  silver,  and  jeirels,  bj  one  wlio  wu 
made  conmicoous  by  the  title  of  nobill^,  GSti  of  Ber- 
lichingen  by  name,  and  aootber  leader  of  the  rastie  mob, 
George  of  Ballenber^,  a  butcher  hy  trade,  bnt  In  hii 
'— '1  and  actiona  a  peif  dious  fetlotr,  a  robb^,  careieea  oT 
HD  honoar,  a  most  iairaical  persacator  of  tlie  clergy, 
nobility  and  of  his  awn  lord,  contraiy  to  the  ordinancw 
of  ibeGoapeland  tboae  ofemynatoral  law )  alwamoat 
atrodona  ipoiier  and  daatro; et  ot  ohnnibai  and  ell  laU- 
giona  placae." 

This  fixei  April  30, 1526,  as  the  date  of  the 
visit  of  Gotx  and  die  inaiu^nt  peaauitB  to  the 
Convent  of  Amorbach. 

The  volume  in  qaegtion  is  now  mounted  on 
brass  oraaments,  evidently  andque,  and  probably 
of  the  date  immediately  followiog  its  spouatioB. 

It  is  probable,  however,  fi«m  the  very  tenor  of 
the  denunciation,  that  it  was  the  worlc,  not  of 
Qotz,  but  of  the  Metzler  or  Butcher  Oeoige  of 
Ballenberg  of  Oothe's  drama.  Qiitz  was  but  the 
nominal  cuttain  or  chief  of  the  insurgente,  and 
must  have  been  at  Amorbach  almost  immediately 
after  he  had  accepted  the  captuucy;  for,  having 
met  the  inaurgente  at  Ouadelabeim,  he  was  on 
the  following  dnj  at  Buchen  forced  to  put  himself 
at  their  head.  Thence  they  proceeded  through 
Amorbach,  Mittenberg,  &&,  on  theii  way  to 
Wmrsburg. 

The  above  interestiiig  particolara  are  condensed 
from  a  oommnnication  by  Dr.  Bleek  to  the  C^e 


A  PBINT£It'8  ESBOB. 
The  third  edition  of  my  Mgthohfft/  of  Orteea 
and  Hah/  was  printed  verbatim  from  the  second, 
except  where  additiona  were  made  in  MS.  My 
snrprise,  therefore,  was  greU  when,  under  me 
head  of  "  Fortune,"  in  the  mytbcAogy  of  Italy,  for 
"alten  and  fanes"  I  fotrad" altars  aodgunea." 
It  was  a  puzzle  to  me  for  yean.  At  last  it  strati 
me  that,  as  in  the  oompoator'a  case  the  type  b 
ananged  in  boxes,  eaoh  Yxyx.  contuniog  the  t^pe 
of  one  letter,  and  as  the  cconpoaitor  worics  m»> 
cbanically,  he  may  atretch  too  far  or  not  ta 
enough,  and  ao  take  up  the  lettar  before  or  aftei 
the  one  he  requires,  and  the  reader  seeing  the 
en«i  may  make  the  oomction  in  the  wrong 
ptftoe :  thus  font  may  hare  become  ^m*,  which 
the  reader  changed  to  ffame.  On  inquii^  1  fotmd  I 
was  righl^  and  thtt  this  is  a  eonstuit.aoitroe  oC 


510 


NOTES  AJTD  QUERIES. 


Now  there  ftie  fflx  places  in  Shakespeare  thna 
corrupted,  and  curious  enough  they  hare  nil  been 
corrected,  and  rightly,  by  myself  and  others — a 
sore  proof,  by  the  wav,  that  emendation,  when 
acting  nnder  a  true  critical  sense,  is  no  mere  hap- 
hBzsid  work.  The  places  are  as  follows : — 
"  Or  for  lone's  uke,  &  word  that  bma  ill  men." 

Loct'i  Lab-'/iCt  IV.  3e.  8. 

Here  Hanmer  properly  read  mouet,  and  to  our 
shame  be  it  sud,  no  editor  seems  to  h&Te  fol- 
lowed him. 

"  A  motktr,  sod  ■  mistms,  and  ■  trivni." 

AlFi  JTdl,  Art  I.  Sc  1. 
Hers  nt  the  first  glance  I  saw  that  the  right 
word  was  lover,  but  I  supposed  that  a  ptu^  ot  it 
bad  been  efioced,  and  the  printer  supplied  the 
want.  I  now  see  that  the  compositor  and  the 
leader  mode  the  ordinary  mistake. 

"To  tn«BlM  speaks  i  aha  miici  ms  for  ber  theme." 
Cbn.  of  Error;  Art  II.  Sc  i. 

Here  I  saw  pleinly  that  the  word  was  iovet, 
which  the  context  proves  to  be  right. 

"  My  birth-pl*e«  Itaue  I,  and  my  love's  npon." 

Cbr.ActlV.Se.4. 
Will  it  be  believed  that  the  obvious  correction 
haU  woe  left  for  SteeveneP — h  and  v,  being  used 
promiscuously,  were  in  the  some  box. 

<■  And  the  taaggtring  ungpriTU'  Tcelt," 

^*^^      &™/rt,  Art  I.  Sc  4. 
For  t  the  compontor  took  up  u  or  v,  which  the 
reader  changed  to  to. 


Ab  Cleopatra's  dark  skin  is  frequently  referred 
to,  the  right  word  must  be  tand  (larm'd),  of  which 
the  compoutor  made  tumd  at  vand,  and  the  reader 
changed  it  t^i  viand  {vxm'd). 

Surely  emendatdon  is  no  mere  guesswork. 

ThOS.  KEieHTLET. 


Lobs  EBSEim. — I  extract  the  following  from 
an  autobiographical  Memoir  of  Thomat  Hardy, 
whose  triu  □□  a  charge  |of  high  treason  in  1794, 
and  hia  acquittal  after  nine  days'  investigation, 
are  well  known.  Speaking  of  Mr.,  afterwards 
Lrad  Chancellor  Erslone,  his  counsel,  the  memoir 
sUtee:— 

"  One  diiappointnient  in  the  tegicr  way  ia  partioiliTly 
worthy  of  raDark.  A  gentlemaa  of  large  fortune  In  Dn- 
byihire,  cT  the  nuna  of  Kant,  aoon  aRer  the  State  Triala 
Id  1794,  made  hia  nil),  and  in  te«tlinon;  of  bts  approba- 
tion of  the  ability,  patriotic  exertlon%  aod  splendid  elo- 
quenee  diaplayed  by  Mr.  Enkine  in  hIa  derence  of  Hanly , 
baqneathed  him  an  eitatc  worth  upwards  of  thirty  thou- 
sand pounds.  Hardy  hinuelf  was  aim  handsomely  raen- 
tloiwd  in  the  will,  to  which  Hr.  Kant  afterwards  added  a 
oodleil.  He  died  oboat  seven  years  afterwards,  and  liis 
attorney  eame  np  to  London  with  the  will  encloeed  In  a 
letter  written  bj  the  gentletnan  blratelf  at  the  time  of 
making  It.    After  Hr.  Enkine  had  iwd  the  latter  he 


to  make  the  codidl  valid  P  He  replied  '  No.'  Then  a 
Hr.  Erddne. '  By  God,  yon  have  loat  me  the  ntate.'  Mr, 
Enkine  aant  far  Hardy  a  few  days  sflcrwards,  told  him 
wliat  had  happened,  and  said  that  tlie  wiil  was  void 
thnmgh  the  liporanc*  or  vilUiny  of  a  stBpid  oon&try 
attorney." 

Not  having  heard  that  this  deplorable  fact  is 
mentioned  elaewhere,  or  that  it  is  at  all  knows 
generally,  it  humbly  appears  to  me  to  merit  in- 
sertion in  "  N.  &  %'•  G, 


Stehl  EFaBLTnrs. — A  correspondent  recently 
SUK^ted  (4'"  S.  vii.  834)  the  photographing  the 
old  mns  and  manor  houoes  of  England  oefore  we 
lose  them  for  ever.  May  I  amend  the  suggestion. 
and  propose  that  some  one  with  the  means  and 
the  taste  should  undertake  a  series  of  good  en- 
gravings P  Experience  has  not  yet  decided  whether 
photography  will  stand  the  ravages  of  time ;  but, 
apart  from  this  question,  I  have  little  hesitation 
in  saying  that  photography  ought  not  to  beat  the 
engraver  out  of  the  field.  Yet  read  this  para- 
graph, cut  from  our  local  paper  :— 

"  The  art  of  rtoel  engraving  is  dying  out  among«  nf. 
the  youngest  Una  enKraver  now  In  EnKTand  being  aaid  (o 
\m  over  fbrty,  and  without  a  pupil.  The  variooa  appli- 
cations of  photography  have  saceeastUly  taken  ila  place. 

It  strikes  me  with  alarm.  Bather  than  let  it  he 
so,  I  would  devote  my  leisure  to  learning  the  art. 
To  neslect  it  will  be  a  disgrace  to  us,  and  I  do 
hope  that  the  statement  I  have  quoted  is  exag- 
gerated. W&XTHEOr. 

"HiBBrre,"^My  Uttle  boy  went  out  walking 
in  Devon  with  hia  nurse,  a  genuine  specimen  of 
the  county,  and  came  home  highly  eicitad  becaase 
he  hod  seen  "  two  hS^biU  "  on  a  roadside  hank. 
Perhaps  it  is  worth  noting  that  tliis  wondrous 
word,  which  greatly  pnitled  me,  is  the  West 
Country  mode  of  pronouncing  efftt — i,  e.  little 
«ft  or  n^vit.  Pblaoius. 

LoHDOK  ni  OcTOBZB. — The  late  Lord  Unmy— 
John  Archibald  Murray,  the  Scottish  judge  — 
thus  writes  to  a  friend ; — 

"  I  am  much  diapoaed  to  maintain  what  moat  people 
will  think  ■  great  paradox,  that  there  is  no  aauon  of  tbs 
rhen  yon  may  aee  London  society  to 


whom  yon  like  or  are  disposed  to  cultivate  tnm  day  ti> 
day.  In  April  and  Hay  there  ara  so  many  people  in  town 
that  it  dlstracta  me,  and  I  go  oat  to  dinner  ererr  day  so 
fatigued  that  I  am  nnable  to  att«od  to  any  thing  that 
pasHa  In  conversation,  and  have  not  snfficient  lUilmsl 
aplrita  to  tokeaabara  in  it." 

Had  the  good-hnmonred  accomplished  judge 
been  more  ahstAimons  at  table  he  would  have  feh 
less  discomfort  C. 

TwKinT  Ponns  op  Pibtt.  —  The  following, 
which,I  think,  ong^t  to  find  a  place  La  ."^-f,*^^ 


«'*8.VII.JDlral7,71,] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


011 


is  &  short  account  of  our  dntr  to  God  and  our 
ooisbbonr.  It  was  written  in  1657  b^  one 
"Thomsa  Leaser,  a  good  man": — 


3.  To  honour  God  in  Trinity, 

The  Trinilj  in  unltj-. 

The  Father  in  His  maJMtv, 

The  Son  in  Hi«  humanity. 

The  Holy  GhoBt'B  benignity  i 

Three  persons,  one  in  Deity, 
■i.  To  serve  Him  alway,  giiilelessly. 
S.  To  ask  Him  >ll  things,  neodfulfv. 
C.  To  praise  Him  in  a]l  compsnv. 

7.  To  love  Him  alway,  heartily.' 

8.  To  dread  Him  atiray,  Chiiitianly. 

9.  To  ttk  Him  mercy,  penitently. 

10.  To  tnut  Him  alwiy,  faithMv. 

11.  To  obev  Him  aliray,  willingly. 

12.  To  abide  Him  alway,  patiently. 

13.  To  thank  Him  alwaj,  tbankTully. 

14.  To  live  hera  alway,  Tirtnonaly. 

16.  To  n»e  thy  neighbour  honratly. 

15.  To  look  for  death  still,  preeently, 

17.  To  help  the  poor,  in  misery. 

18.  To  hope  for  heaven's  falicitv. 
IE).  To  have  faith,  hope,  and  charily. 
20.  To  count  this  Ufa  but  vanity : 

Be  Founs  or  CuBiaTuif  itt. 

Some  iofonnation  about  the  author  would  be 
acceptable.  Taoa.  Raiclipte. 

Mbb.  Habbixt  Cubke,  asbd  10&— The  en- 
closed from  tbeSwiday  Timet  of  Maj28  deserres 
a  place  in  "N.  &  Q." : — 

"Pdnhral  of  a  Labt  106  Tbahb  or  Aoe.— On  Mon- 
day morning  the  mortal  remains  of  Hn.  Harriet  Clarke, 
widow  of  Mr.  Thomai  Clarke,  formerly  of  Hurlebone, 
were  interted  in  Keoial  Qteen  Cemetery,  near  the  grave 
at  Tom  Hood.  The  deceased  resided  at  Narthwol<£  ud 
bad  attained  the  remarkable  age  of  106  years." 

M.H. 

[Wliat  reason  is  there  fbr  n^posiK^  that  Hn.  Clarke 
was  106?  We  tear  it  is  nseless  to  ask  what  tvidaiet 
there  i«  of  the  reputed  tact.— Ed.  "N.  &  Q."] 

Memobial  Bblis  at  St.  Ddxstax's,  Stepnet. 
Inectiptions  on  the  church  bells  of  St  Dunstan's, 
Stepiie;.    Od  the  treble  :— 

"Cast  by  Hees.  Mean  &  Son.  London,  Fedt,  1806. 
Ijeorge  Harper,  D.D..  Rector.  Mathew  Baanm,  Robert 
Tunwr,  W"lVadti  W-  Thomson,  Geo.  Everritt,  Cbnrch- 

Secoud  betl.  third  betl,  fourth  bell,  fifth  bell 
the  same  inaciiption. 

Sixth  bell:— 

"  To  Uks  Pions  Memory  of  H"  Piiac*  Cobon,  a  liberal 
Benefactress  to  the  Saamen'e  Widows  of  tiu  Parish  of  St. 
Dunstan'a,  Stepney.    J.  Meaie  &  Son  Fedt,  1606." 

Seventh  betl  :— 

"  The  following  inscription  was  upon  the  ^th  bell  of 


Hears 


Tli^nlsegregln 
rs  *  Son  fedt,  IS 


1806." 


Eighth  bell  :— 

"To  the  Hononr  of  the  Tolnnteere  of  the  Psriab  of 
Saint  Danuan's  Stepney,  the  Ratcliff  Corps  commanded 
by  John  Boweott,  F.»q,.  Major,  U.  C.  O.  T,  V  W"  Thom- 
son, Esq.,  Leu*-Con,  the  Poplar  &  Blackwall,  by  John 
Wells,  Eiq.,  Leo'  Col",  1806.'' 

Ninth  bell  :-r- 

"Institnled  to  the  Honour  of  Sir  Cbailea  Wager. 
£,N,T,  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  1739,  Patron  to 
tbe  Stepney  or  Cocknn"  Feast  at  Ratcliff  in  the  Year 
1671,  &  discontinaed  1'84.  John  Mathews,  Treasurer, 
T.  Mesrs  &  Son  Fecit,  1806." 

Tenor  bell  :— 

■•  The  late  Tenor  (W^gbt,  49  Cw')  was  given  to  the 
Priory  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  Duke's  Place,  Aldgate,  by 
Nicholas  Chadwortb,  renewed  by  Tbomns  Manon,  138G, 
was  eold  with  three  others  bv  Sir  Thomas  Audley  to  Uie 
Palish  of  Saint  DnnsUn's,  Stepnev.  about  the  Year  1640, 
recast,  1602,  17G4,  and  1799,  the  late  peat  of  eight  Bells 
were  Recast  into  Ten  by  T.  Mesrs  A  Son,  1SD6,  in  pre- 
sanee  of  Qeo.  Harper,  D.D.,  Rector,  Rev'  Thomas  Thirl- 
wall.  Lecturer,  Mathew  Easum,  Bob'  Tomer,  W™  Wade, 
Geo.  Everritt,  Churchwardens.  J°°  Curds,  Esq. ;  J" 
Edwards,  Esq. ;  Jeremiah  Snow,  Esq. ;  John  Paulin,  Esq.; 
H'  James  Barafeild,  W.  H.  Simons,  Mathew  Warton, 
Survejror;  John  Salter,  Veatrv  Clerk.— Weight,  SI  cw^. 
Key  D." 

W.  W. 

Tafbbtst  Pobtkaits. — At  a  sale  of  ancient 
efiecta  that  latelj  took  place  at  Stanbridge  Erlea, 
Hants,  there  was  sold  a  verj  haadsome  piece  of 
domestic  tqieatry,  worked  on  white  eattn,  show- 
ing faded  gold  and  white  beads.  This  was  de- 
scribed in  catalogue  as  — 

"  Tapestry  Needlework,  repnaenting  Charles  II.  and 
his  Queen  in  the  character  of  a  Shepheiil  and  Shepherdess, 
date  about  1670." 

This  curious  specimen  of  needlework  may  now 
be  seen  exhibited  in  the  shop  window  of  aDook- 
seller  in  Bemond  Street,  Southampton,  and  at* 
tracta  the  attention  of  all  thoae  interested  in  thia 
b7gone  accompliahmeat.  It  ia  an  elabotate  pro- 
duction. EH. 

Helion  Sqnare,  S.E. 

Mat  Dat  at  Oifobd. — The  following  account 
(taken  from  7%e  Timet)  of  this  time-honoured 
custom  appears  to  me  to  deserve  a  comer  for  pre- 
servation in  "  N.  &  Q." ; — 

"  The  amdent  inutom  of  chantins  a  hymn  on  the  top 
of  Hudalea  College  tower,  Oxibrd,  was  doly  obaerved 
yester&y  morning  at  five  o'clock  by  the  choir,  endar  the 
directbn  of  tbe  organist.  Dr.  Stainer.    For  this  eervioe 


previously  tt 
braled  on  the 


,(Joogle 


sm  coma  mto  lue  f     i.bere  u  fu  idea  aome< 
mmil&i  in  Sir  Philip  Sidney's  romaDe«j  ths  Cimm- 
2«M  D^  PemhroUt  Arcadia,"  in  book  1.  of  wUoh 

the  noble  author  obeerrea :  — 


ji  St  to  ptr- 
Efp. 

AXiOBSTiB. — From  wb&t  vereion  of  the  etoiy  of 
Alcestu  did  Mi.  Leigbton  take  his  picture — 
"Hercules  wrestling  with  Death  for  the  Body  of 
Aloestis"?  The  entice  refer  to  Euripidea,  and 
Tht  ^actaior,  one  of  the  highest  authorities  on 
art,  ioys;  — 

"  Mr.  Leighton  hu  ventuicd,  with  the  but  rtault,  to 
npratnt  the  OTsrthrow  of  Death  U  prodaiwl  by  the 
noit  joientifio  croia-battock,  and  enforced  by  ui  ina- 
siftjble  twiat  of  the  light  foot.  Tbs  remHining  (rroaps 
sie  too  aameroDf,  or  too  little  museil  together,  althoagh 
gracefiil  in  themselres  and  geiterally  pretty  in  sentloient. 
Aloestis  herself,  yet  sleeping  the  Bleep  of  death,  ia  fairly 
wd!  portrayed ;  bot  there  la  no  one  the  mind  can  ac- 

at  as  a  ciearfy  tatufaetaiy  personificatum  of  Admrhta,  on 
M6  accoant  all  tbeae  Ihinga  were  done.  Some  have 
objected  (_afitr  refrahlag  their  immnria  regarding  the 
m^th)  that  Apollo  ia  Dot  preseot.  But  he  could  hardty 
with  decency  took  on,  while  hia  own  bargain  with  Death 
(viE.  that  if  Admetna  lived  aome  ons  ihonld  die  for  him) 
waa  being  broken  by  a  daily  of  inferior  powei," — Spto- 
tator.  May  37, 1871. 


Those  who  obiect  to  the  ahaence  of  Apollo  have 
not  "  refreshed  uieir  memories  "  with  the  pl^,  in 
'which  he  comes  on  with  Death  to  apeak  ue  pro- 
logue^ and  appeals  no  mwe.  Daain  ends  it  by 
showing  the  sword  with  which  be  intends  to  cut 
the  lo(£  of  Alce^'  hair  (v.  76),  and  I  suppose 
does  so,  as  she  dies  at  t.  401.  After  that,  he  has 
no  iDoia  business  with  her  "body."  She  is  dead 
before  Hercules  arrivea.  He  aaka  where  her  tomb 
is,  and  sajB  he  will  ro  there  and  watch  for  Death 
coming  to  drink  the  t>lood  of  the  victims :  — 
Vilinitf  Xox^Bf  a^^  ii  Jifn  mrOtls 

OtK  fiFTir  Both  t^nly  ifyufftatrtu 
MoyoiwTa  nktvpif  Tf)r  ■jwoEt'  ifiiiX  ^(flf. 

TT.  882-6. 
It  ia  pUn  that  TwoTiia  does  not  aigniiy  "body," 
as  he  says,  if  Death  do  not  come,  be  will  go  to 
Hades  and  intercede  to  bring  Alcestia  back.  When 
he  returns  with  her,  be  tells  how  he  seized  Death 
at  the  tomb  (v.  1161).  The  picture  represents 
the  wrestling  as  before  the  Toyalhoiuehoid.  Had 
Adwetua  been  present,  the  beautiful  scene  with 
the  veiled  Alcestis  would  have  been  lost 

I  believe  that  Mr.  Leigbton  is  an  accomplished 
scholar,  and  no  Journal  is  less  likely  to  be 
token  on  classicsl  matters  than  The 


"  Aethor's  slow  WAm  "  (Scott's  X«,  ouito  i. 
V.  17.) — Why  is  tke  consteUatian  of  tiie  Great 
Bear  called  "Arthur's  W(ub"P  I  kao*  what 
Miss  Tonge  {ChrUUm  yiimet,  i.  186)  aad  Owen 
(quoted  by  Southey  in  intzodnotioii  to  KyngArA>^, 
i.  Tii.)say  about  it;  but  the  inforawticratbeT  give 
is  not  satisfactory.  C,  W.  S, 

BuxBO :  Clod  Bxsp.— In  in  hotel  biB  cf  1760 
land- 
au d. 
"Clod  beef  abont  40  lb*.,  durged  only  Mlha.      6  10 

Bumbo 10" 

In  another  bill,  about  the  same  date,  "  a  dod 
of  beef  "is  mentioned.  What  part  of  Uie  oxvaa 
mesnt  P    And  what  was  Bumbo  f 

J.  if.  COWPEB. 
rSumba  we  take  to  be  Bank,  a  nsotieal  drink.  Sir 
Waller  Scott  aaya :  "  He  intruded  hin^uK  on  the  awfnl 
presence  of  Bawkins  the  boatinaiD,  and  I^nick  the 
quarl«r-maater,  who  were  legsling  IhemaBlvca  wit*  a  oa 
of  rvmbo,  ailer  tho  fatigQiog  duty  of  the  day."  (TV 
Piralc,  cb.  xxxix.) — Clod  ia  the  ooane  part  of  the  neck 

CoLLBcnon  foe  a  Histobt  op  Ikitb,  src—Aa 
"  Extenuve  and  Curious  Collection  of  Uanii' 

scripts,  Dravrings,  EngTavings,  Newspaper  Cut- 
tings, for  a  History  of  Inns,  Tavems,  and  CtdTee- 
Housei,  to  be  sold  in  one  lot  by  Messrs.  Southgate 
&  Barrett,  22,  Fleet  Street,  on  Ifonday,  Mm  27, 
186B  "  (see  The  AUteumm,  May  21, 1869).  Being 
vwy  anxious  to  inspect  the  above  collection,  I 
should  |feel  greatly  obliged  if  you,  <»  any  readw 
of  "N.  &  Q.,"  can  tell  me  where  it  ean  now  be 
seen,  as  I  cannot  find  anything  relating  to  the 
subject  in  the  British  Museum  Library.     W.  D. 

"  Ex  Luoa  LccBuux." — I  cut  the  following 
from  the  £mnm;  ^bnuiord  of  May  1: — 

"'Ex  LncBLDcaixuB.'— 'The  Man  About  Town,'  in 
the  SporHy^  GaxtUe,  says:— 'Many  as  are  Ihe  retorts 
which  hive  followed  and  beau  founded  on  Ur.  l«we's 
now  memorable  ex  luce  luceUnoij  perhapa  the  most  hitter 
is  that  which  aaaerta  that  it  is  not  originall  I  am 
anared  bya  venerable  "Han  AboatTown,  one  who  has 
not  quite  forKOttan  bis  wall-atored  lore  ■iwDt  the  poUtjca 
of  the  last  generation,  that  he  perfectly  remembeia  tjM 
phrase  being  ippendBd  aa  a  motto  to  a  aatiiioal  coat  of 
anna  devis^  for  Mr.  Pitt  on  that  minister  creating,  or 
rather  incrnaing,  the  window  tax.  Hy  intormanC  adds 
that  he  is  almost  sure  that  he  oece  boDght  a  c<q>y  of  that 
coat,  dniy  coloured,  for  aiipencal  It  la,  however,  way 
pDSeible  that  Mr.  lj>we  never  heard  of  the  foimcr  si^aib, 
and  that  his  dasaicsl  fancy  hit  upon  the  Idea  quite  as 
oiigioa]  ae  the  satirist  of  17S4.'  " 

Perhaps  Mr.  Reid  will  kindly  tell  us  whelli«r 
._e  caricature  referred  to  is  contained  in  the  col- 
lection of  which  he  has  charge  at  the  British 
Museum.  R.  B.  P. 


d  by  Google 


4»&TILJo3m  17,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QU^BIBS. 


to  it  la  the  General  Index  to  the  collesUoit  of  aatirieil 

AscisxT  EiriaiiA.  -r- 1  ofior  &  ourioua  old 
emtriDB  for  solution  to  Hk  mgeDious  leaders  of 
"N.&Q.":- 

**  Cadner  nee  habat  ninm  HpnlchiBm  ; 
Sapnlcbnun  nee  habet  mum  cadaver  ; 
Sepnkhrain  taman  et  cadaver  Intua." 
In  Engliah  thus  :— 

"AeorpiW,  vitbont  atqmlolire; 
A  acpulchre,  without  a  nirpae  ; 
And  fat  a  eepolchn  and  corpM  witbin.'' 

F.  0.  H. 

Flbhihh  FisaEavEiT  sbttlbs  ih  EnauiiD. — 
Id  Smiles'  Huguenots  I  find  the  observation  tb&t — 

"  Colonies  or  Flemish  fiiihennen  hsving  settled  daring 
the  ralgn  of  Henrr-  II.  at  Brighton,  ^ewbaven,  and  other 
places  along  the  South  Cout,  tbeir  lineage  ii  Mill  trace- 
able tbera  in  local  woidi,  names,  and  places." 

Oan  aoj  of  your  Sussex  readers  giva  any  in- 
etBacea  of  these  ?  A.  S. 

"  Ths  Gabden  or  thb  Soul." — The  hiatoiy  of 
this  work  is  somewhat  obscure.  It  bears  the 
name  of  Richard  ChaUoneT,  Bishop  of  Debra. 
Vicar  Apostolic  of  the  London  district,  who  died 
on  January  13,  1781.  The  book,  however,  is 
neither  noiioed  hj  James  Barnard  in  his  Life  of 
Siciard  Chailoner  (1784),  nor  in  any  bibliogra- 
phical account  of  Challoner's  works.  The  earliest 
English  edition  in  the  British  Museum  has  the  data 
of  1793,  and  was  published  twelve  years  after  the 
death  of  Br.  Cballoner.  In  18S9  there  appeared 
at  Vannea — 

"  Le  Janlin  de  I'Ame,  oa  Citoiz  dee  Meditations  de 
Cballoner,  pour  tool  le)  dimaoches  et  lea  principalea  fetes 
de  I'ann^     Trsduit   da  I'Anglais  par  I'abW  Bourdy, 


"THEGRECi*iiBEin)."— Iwould  ask  my  me- 
dical brethren  what  19,  or  rather  was,  the  true 
Grecian  bend  ["N.  &  Q.,"  4'"  S.  vii.  123]  P  I  am 
sure  that  it  was  not  the  ungfunly  forward  stoop 
which  is  assumed  at  the  present  day,  and  which 
clearly  originates  in  the  hips  or  loins,  or  both 
combmed.  My  belief  is,  thftt  it  was  a  natural 
and  nationsl  peculiarin  in  the  conformation  of 
the  cerrical  or  humentl  (neck  or  shoulders)  por- 
tion of  the  spinal  column;  throwing  the  head  a 
little  more  in  adrance  of  the  bust  than  is  usual 
with  our  modem  Indies,  but  at  the  same  time 
carving  it  naeefully  downwards.  In  a  population 
of  30,000  I  only  know  one  young  lady  who  in  my 
opinion  has  this  true  Grecian  bend ;  and  I  need 
scarcely  say  that  it  is  neither  the  result  of  art  nor 
affectation.  M.  D. 

Hebbewb  IX.  16. — The  Committee  on  the  £«• 
Tiaon  of  the  English  Bible  la  respectfully  lequeated 
to  conuder  the  foUowing  suggestion : — 


At  Hebrews  ix.  16  the  word  iiaifMimv  might, 
without  great  violence,  mean  the  victim  w&ch 
attests  the  covenant.    We  should  then  read : — 

"  For  where  a  covenant  is,  there  must  also  of  ateaaatj 
be  the  death  of  that  which  stteita  the  covenant.  For  a 
covenant  is  of  force  over  the  dead,  nnce  it  never  has 
ftiree  while  that  which  ettnta  it  is  living." 

This  maljea  as  clear  as  sunlig-ht  a  pass^  which 
the  ordinary  rendering  makes  in  explicable, 

Jasper  S.  McIlvairb. 

Am.  Fresb*n  Hisdon,  Peking,  China. 

rrbe  late  Dean  Albrd,  in  his  Wan  Talamnt 

na^fcot^xmdwitkthtOrisiiKal  Crwt,  asi<  rniK^lSSa, 
gives  the  passage  in  question  as  follows : — "  For  whaie  a 
testament  is,  there  most  also  of  necessity  be  implied  the 
death  of  him  tbst  made  it.  For  a  teitameot  is  of  force  in 
the  cose  of  the  dead,  sedns  that  it  is  of  no  strength  at  all 
while  he  that  made  it  is  aUve.''] 

JoEn  KrNasi.ow,  thi  Reclitse. — Particulars 
are  requested  respecting  the  life  of  John  Kingslow, 
who  IS  said  to  nave  been  the  first  recluse  who 
lived  in  the  Bermitage  founded  within  Shene 
Monastery  in  1416,  and  whether  any  record  or 
work  exists  containing  any  account  of  his  life. 

Hubert  Skith. 

St.  Leonsrd's,  Bridgnorth. 

Saxubl  MAvirDBB. — Can  you  give  me  any  in- 
formation respecting  Samuel  Maunder  f — a  name 
familiar  to  most  people  as  the  autlior  or  compiler 
of  some  half  dozen  very  useful  Treasuries,  but  I 
have  never  seen  in  print  any  details  of  his  life, 
where  or  when  born,  and  the  date  of  Ms  decease. 
A  new  edition  of  the  Biographical  Treasury  has 
lately  been  published,  but  no  mention  is  made  of 
the  original  projector.  Surely  his  name  deserves 
some  notice,  however  brief,  in  that  interesting 
Tolume  P  Wa.  WRiaai. 

3i,  Pepler  Road,  Old  Kent  Road. 

f  Samuel  Maunder  was  the  brother-in-law  of  William 
Pinnock  {who  married  his  sister),  and  had  the  chief  hand 
in  tho  preparation  of  the  long  series  of  Cntrehitmi  for 
schools  to  which  Finnock'a  name  is  altacbed,  and  to 
himthejoath  (tf  England  are  la^l;  indebted  for  thair 
instruction.  If  just  and  good  actions,  a  modest  self-esti- 
mate and  firm  integrit}',  an  absolnte  derotcdneKi  la 
literature  in  its  best  sense  for  educating  the  mass  of  the 
people,  "smell  sweet  and  blossom  in  the  dust,"  so  long 
Bhall  the  memory  of  Samnel  Maunder  be  cherislied 
thronghont  the  British  Empire.  Ue  died  it  bis  house  in 
""--m  Square,  Islington,  on  April  80, 1849.  There  is  a 
notice  of  him  ia  Cates'a  Dicturwry  nf  Bingrofhy, 
ed.  1867,  p.  726.] 

Uaoaulit  Airn  Carltle. — Who  is  the  author 
of  the  following  parallel  between  Macaulay  and 
Carlyloi  — 

"  To  anm  np  the  leading  characteristies  of  these  two 
great  aothDls,  1  ahoald  say  Uiat,  whilst  Macaulay  is  per- 
hsps  the  greater  urilcr,  Carlvle  is  berond  all  ifuestion 
the  more  profound  thvdur.  Hacaolay's  writings,  with 
all  their  biilllancv,  are  nevertheless  of  the  earth,  earthy  ; 
whilst  those  of  Carlvie  are  illnmiiiatad  by  a  heavenly 
light,  which  makes  Us  hooka  the  fouDtain  of  life  that 
tbey  are  to  many  a  weary  and  straggling  pilgrim,  Hao- 
autay  writes  like  i  transceodentty  talented  man  of  thai 


enud  man  oi  Lna, 


D«ed  only  eompure  M»c«ol»y'e  bnllUnt  eauy  on  . 
Mm  with  Cariyle'i  on  Iha  ume  subject.  Micanlay  hu 
given  ns  in  idmirable  picture  of  Johnfon'i  mUiBanl  nan, 
but  of  JohoKin's  hearl  be  knen  nothiog.  Let  b*,  how 
ever,  re»d  Qirlyle'i  eamv  »twnti™ly,  and  wa  at  ones  aa 
that  CarlyU  botb  knew  Mad  ondgntood  Johaton." 

JOKATHAS  BODCHIBB. 

Mbdallic  QitEKT.— Could  an;  of  ^out  cone 
BpoDdente  kindl;  give  ma  some  infoniutioii  about 
s  conple  of  rilTer  medals  which  I  hava  lately 
added  to  my  collection  F  The  fint  is  a  little 
lari^r  and  heavier  than  a  baUcrown  piece,  and 
bu  OD  the  obverse  the  tliTee-quaTter  onsU  of  a 
young  woman  and  an  aged  man :  the  former  is 
tepresented  as  suckling  the  latter,  who  is  in  a  very 
emaciated  condition.  In  the  background  is  a 
Btronglj'barred  prison  window.  The  legend  (which 
begins  with  a  five-pointed  star,  as  a  sort  of  mint- 
mark)  is — "  ^  I  .  was  .  in  .  prison  .  and  .  ye  . 
came  ,  unto  .  me  ."  On  the  reverse  are  several 
trumpets  or  bugles,  across  them  being  laid  an 
open  music-boolt.  The  name  "Joseph  Parry"  is 
inscribed  in  the  outer  circle.  I  would  be  glad  to 
know  what  is  the  connection  between  the  obverse 
and  reverse  of  this  medal,  or  what  in  the  first 
instance  led  to  its  being  struck  P  I  have  also  a 
specimen  in  copper  predsely  similar,  except  as 
rerards  the  name  that  is  engraved  on  the  reverse. 

The  second  medal  which  I  shall  be  obliged  for 
information  about  has  on  the  obverse  a  full-length 
figure  of  Erin,  represented  with  a  bold  defiant  air, 
holding  in  her  right  hand  a  sheathed  sword,  while 
her  len  band  rests  on  a  harp.  An  Irish  wolf-dog 
nts  bedde  her;  over  all  being  tho  legend,  "The 
Order  of  Liberators."  In  the  eiergue  (in  two 
lines)  are  the  words  "  Ireland  as  she  ought  to  be'' ; 
the  whole  surrounded  by  a  double  wreath  of 
shamrocks.    On  the  reverse,  standing  on  a  rock,  is 


pole,  with  a  cap  (of  liber^P)  thereon;  to  the 
right  are  three  hands  joined,  the  words  "  Erin  go 


occupy  the  field  of  the  medal.  A  double  wreath 
of  shamrocks  surrounds  the  entire,  as  on  the  ob- 
Tsrse.  This  medal  is  about  the  size  and  weight 
of  a  crown  piece,  and  is  of  rather  coarse  work- 
manship. R.  W.  H.  Nash,  B.A. 

Florieds  Plaix,  Dublin. 

Mn-Toif's  Foil  LOBK. — The  ritali^  of  our 
common  folk  lore  is  well  known  to  those  who 
ha*e  only  cursorilj  considered  the  subject;  and 
when  tbis  has  been  enshrined  in  our  best  poets, 
the  chances  are  that  it  will  remun  unchanged  for 
many  centuries.  Milton  has  a  choice  morsel  in 
his  first  sonnet,  and  it  will  be  intereating  to  ascer- 


*■  Thy  liquid  DOtca  that  close  the  eve  of  div, 
FHrtt  hiard  btfon  tht  (htUov  etidmo'i  bill. 
Forlad  •■>«»■  in  tone.    0 1  If  Jove's  will 
Hu  linked  that  ■mDroui  power  to  thv  aoft  lay. 
Now  timely  sing,  ere  tbe  rude  bird  ol'hate 
Foretei  my  hopeless  doom  In  aomB  gnire  nigb." 
InX'^fl^ohetellsoftha  doings  of  "Fairy  Mab;" 
the  "  Friar's  Lantern,"  or  "  Will  with  the  Wiro"; 
and  the  "drudging  Goblin," — in  terms  all  Wt 
identical  with  those  by  which  their  pranks  would 
be  described  in  Lancashire  and  YorWiira  at  the 
present  time  by  the  peasants  in  "  the  undisturbed 
nooks  and  comers  "  of  these  counties.    So  far  as 
I  know,  we  have  no  visits  from  the  nightingale 
so  far  north;    and  hence  I  hope  some  of  tbe 
"south-conatry  "  correspondents  will  state  wlie- 
ther  Milton's  lore-token  is  still  extant 

T.  T,  W. 
MoiroLiTE  AT  Mbabnb. — On  the  high  ground 
which,  I  believe,  is  the  southern  bouudaiy  of  the 
parish  ofMeamSjintbe  county  of  Renfrew,cloM  to 
the  avenue  which  runs  from  the  Rouken  estate  to 
CapalBig,tbereis  a  monolith,  asfaraslcaniedtoo, 
about  5ft.  Bin.  high,  or  more.  The  northern  and 
southern  sides  are  rudely  sculptured,  and  diridei 
into  two  sections,  each  filled  with  a  rude  onuunuit 
resemblingaplaitof  three.  The  eastern  and  western 
sides  have  been  apparently  ornamented,  but  are 
more  indistinct ;  a  very  deep  groove  is  on  tbe 
eastern  side,  'i  his  interesting  stone  is  in  a  corn- 
field, carefully  fenced-in.  Can  any  antiquary  give 
me  any  information  respecting  its  history  r  Diinao- 
sione,  as  far  as  I  could  gneas :  height,  SFL  ffin.  by 
6ft. ;  breadth  on  north  and  west  sides,  3fL ; 
breadth  on  north  and  south,  1ft.  Slopes  itregu- 
l^ly  from  base  towards  the  summit.  THca. 

AsciENT  RiDDLKS. — Some  Tears  a^  an  old 
fiiend  of  mine  bought,  at  a  booa  stall  in  London, 
a  MS.  Medical  Receipt  Book  of  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury.    The   volume   nad  once   belonged  to,  and 
bore  the  book-plate  o^  "Sir  Francis  Fust,  Bart, 
1662."    While  looking  over  this  quaint  relic  ai^r 
it  came  into  my  Mend's  possession,  I  discovei«d 
on  the  last  leaf  two  attempts  at  rhyme,  written  1 
should  say  about  the  date  of  the  Beformatiou,  but 
certtunly  not  later  than  the  reign  of  Uary.    One 
is  still  very  distinct,  and  runs  as  follows :  — 
"  Tbe  beoety  of  the  nysbt  ya  shee, 
ofbuemoTs  mother  all  tbat  be, 
and  lyke  wyse  lady  of  the  >eys, 
that  tyme  doth  ninare  as  she  Beys ; 
the  aonn  aha  follows  every  where. 
Bud  she  ja  changer  of  the  ayer. 
this  ladys  name  fayne  woold  I  know 
that  dwells  so  high  *  rules  ao  low." 
Thia,  I  take  It,  is  clearly  an  enigma,  and  the 
answer  to  it  I  nnderstand  to  be  "the  mo<aL."  The 


db,  Google 


l-^S-VII.  JiJiiBl7,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


515 


other  lines,  perhaps  by  an  oldei  scribe,  are  written 
at  the  lower  left-hand  corner  of  the  lame 
This  corner,  oniog  to  ezponue  to  the  air  and  the 

friction  consequent  on  fequent  turning  over  the 
leaves  with  apparently  sot-OTer-dean  hands,  is 
almost  illegible.  I  submit  the  following  aa  an 
approximate  reading,  but  must  not  guarantee 
every  letter,  the  writing  is  so  very  iudisunct :  — 

■•  Criat  crow  mucli  aoirte  of  them  that  bjde 

fast  bv  ;•  flode  of  bolle  de, 

shai  n'n  daye  Bay  nnC  Patryi  lyde 

and  gtDoell  in  7*  nadn  lee. 

Thia  also  seems  to  be  a  riddle,  but  if  so  I  cannot 

suggest  the  answer.  Some  of  yooi  teaden  may  be 

able  to  do  so.  B.  £.  T. 

The  SBPTCiGiNT. — Will  you  tell  me  which  is 
the  best  work  published  on  the  LXX.  Tendon,  and 
all  questions  connected  with  it  P       W.  A.  B.  G. 

[Ab  aar  margin  will  not  admit  of  a  lengtheaed  disciu- 
Bion  on  thia  recondito  subject,  we  mnM  refer  onr  corre- 
spondent toavaluibloliat  ofworfcson  thoSeptaagiut  by 
Dr.  Malcom,  in  hia  Thtolagiad  Indtx,  pp.  416,  417, 
BoalOD,  U.S.  1S68,  Sto  i  and  to  the  Preface  to«ii  Lance- 
lot Chirlea  Lee  Brenton'a  English  traaalatian.  Couaalt 
also  Dr.  William  Smith's  DictUmary  oftKt  Bible,  i.  211- 
213  j  ill.  1200-1216,  and  Home's  Introduction  to  the  Hvtu 
SeHplurtt,  ed.  1846,  ii.  203-216,  S2S-388  j  r,  fiS-GS. 
Articles  on  the  Septoagint  have  appeared  in  "  N.  &  Q." 
3"  8.  IT,  807,  879 ;  t,  419,  470,  fi24 1  Ti.  88-1 

Thouab  Sixoh, — Where  is  now  preserved  the 
original  raimusciipt  of  Oliver  Cromwell's  appoint- 
ment of  Thomas  Simon  to  the  office  of  chief  en- 
graver and  medal-makor,  dated  July  9,  1666  P  It 
ia  printed  in  Oough's  edition  of  Vertae's  Workt  of 
Simon,  ham  a  MS.  on  vellum  in  the  library  of 
Thomas  Aatle,  Esq.  (p.  86),  containing  the  "  In- 
rollments  of  Instruments  of  State,  Grants  of  Of- 
lices,  Ac,  from  June  24, 1664,  to  the  Death  of 
Olivet  Cromwell,"  and  also  during  the  "Pro- 
tectorate of  Richard  Cromwell,  and  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  Parliament." 

Henbt  W.  Herpkbt. 

Mackbam  Booae,  Brigblon. 

Jaues  Sutth  op  WmrxHiLL.— Thia  personage 
was  "  Overseer  of  Hie  Majesty's  Wark  in  Scot- 
land in  1686,  and  achieved  some  notoriety  as  an 
inventor  of  machines  for  supplying  towns  with 
water,  about  which  he  petitioned  the  Scotch 
Parlinment  on  several  occasions  (see  AcU  Park 
Scot.,  Chambers's  i)omesfic  .^nnob,  &C.)  I  shall 
he  glad  if  vou  will  allow  mo  to  ask  a  question 
respecting  him,  not  with  the  view  of  saving 
rayself  any  trouble  in  seaichmg,  but  only  because 
I  have  eioausted  every  source  of  information  in 
print  or  MS.  without  fmding  what  I  am  in  search 
of.  The  following  are  some  of  the  principal  facts 
reepecting  hun,  which  I  have  succeeded  in  exca- 
vating. He  must  have  been  bom  c.  1646-60; 
for  he  was  married  before  1680  to  Janet,  daughter 
of  Bebert  Mylne  of  Balfai^,  the  "King's  Abater 


Mason."  Abont  1689  he  purchased  the  estate  of 
Whitehill,  in  the  parish  of  Inveresk,  near  Edin- 
btirgh,  from  the  Piestons,  and  also  portions  of 
land  at  Parkend  and  the  Magdolen-Bndge  in  the- 
same  parish ;  and  received  a  grant  of  arms  (AzuTft 
three  flames  of  fire,  or ;  on  a  chief  argent,  a  thistle, 
vert)  from  the  Lo^  Lyon  of  Scotland.  Hepoa- 
sessed  at  thia  time  a  tenement  in  Niddry's  Wynd 
in  Edinburgh.  In  1696  he  is  asugnee  md  credi- 
tor in  the  testament-dative  of  one  Mr.  James 
Smyth,  secretary  to  the  Earl  of  Perth,  who  died 
about  this  time.  In  1701  he  is  the  "  cautioner  " 
for  Miss  Marianna  Smith,  apparently  his  daughter, 
OD  her  marriage;  and  two  years  later  he  buys 
another  piece  of  land  at  Parkend.  In  1706  he 
hod  a  eon  bom,  ^med  Gilbert.  The  next  year 
he  sold  part  of  Whitehill,  but  lavs  out  some 
money  to  repair  his  "dykes"  at  Parkend.  la 
I7I3  hia  daughter  Bella  was  married  to  one  Gil- 
bert Smith  m  Eldinbur^h;  and  thirteen  years 
later  he  assigns  the  remamder  of  his  property  of 
Whitehill  to  his  son-in-law  Gilbert,  m  security 
for  a  debt  of  305J^  sterling.  He  was  dead  in 
1729,  leaving  two*  surviving  sons,  Gilbert  and 
Cleroatirick. 

Can  any  one  give  me  any  information  respecting 
his  birth^  parentage,  or  relations  P  What  was 
the  relationship,  if  any,  between  him  and  Mr. 
James,  the  secretary  to  Lord  Perth  ?      F.  M.  S. 

Shop. — What  is  the  correct  word  to  express 
the  sound  made  by  a  billiard  or  a  croquet  ball 
striking  another  P  In  the  Western  counties  we 
should  call  it  snap,  a  term  that  would  with  eqoal 

Jcopriety  be  applied  to  the  noise  of  a  shoemaker's 
ammer.  Such  words  as  click,  daih,  crack,  clap, 
ring,  rap,  none  of  them  convey  the  same  definite 
idea  OS  tnop.  Since  the  description  in  The  Times 
of  the  fight  between  Sayers  and  hia  American 
antagonist,  a  very  valuable  provlaciel  word,  thud, 
has  oeen  adopted  into  our  vocabulary  (  and  I 
humbly  suggest  that,  with  our  poverty  in  terms 
of  sound,  we  should  draw  upon  our  country 
cousins  for  more  of  them.  R.  C.  A.  Fbiob. 

"The  SoN»  OF  Solomon," — The  metrical  para- 
phrases of  this  mysterious  song  are  as  numerous 
as  the  versions  of  the  Psalms  of  David,  and  a  hiV- 
lii^iaphical  list  would  be  curious  and  interesting. 

Here  is  one,  probably  unknown ; — "  Sacred 
Eclogues,  or  the  Songs  of  Solomon,  Paraphrased 
by  L.  Lauronce.  Eevis'd  by  F.  L.  1693."— a 
manuscript  apparently^  prepared  for  the  press. 
Mr.  L.  is  profuse  in  introductory  matter:  "To 
the  welUaffected  Reader";  "  To  the  Hydra-headed 
Vulgar";  and  "The  Translator's  Invocation"  (for 
hu  "Sacred  Eclogues"  are  from  "that  famous 
French  poet,  Remy  Belleau  "), — all  in  the  comic 
vein.  Under  the  second  flattering  deugnation  the 
author  appears  to  aim  at  hia  critics,  and  hereto 
the  stvle  of  hie  defiance :  — 


With  y  vi!e  touch,  presume  not  onee  to  loot 

Over  this  leafe,  for  y'  infoctiooi  breath 

Breithi  QODght  bat  noyaons  ind  detractinK  death. 


Tbiaeacied  Poemj  aiiark,  do,  barke  and  bite; 
Use,  use  J-'  utmost  of  y  hate  and  spite, 
Spitt  forth  the  venom  of  v'  sordid  brain*  ( 
Whip,  jerk,  and  lash  itw"' iaTeotiveatraini. 
Tou  cannot  wrong  it,  for  the  whole  norld  knows 
It's  slander-proofe,  and  can  repnlae  y'  blo*a ; 
It's  full  of  precious  worth,  no  comon  thing, 
liie  Penman  ma  □□  other  t"  a  King. 
Then  do  not  wrong  y"  Lord's  Anoynted  »o. 
As  base  aepenions  on  hii  works  to  throw ; 
Shew  more  respect,  forbear,  'tis  Holy  Writt, 
No  wanton  fancj  of  a  capering  wilt ; 
Aak  fam'd  Belleao,  who  beld  it  so  diving 
Who  in  swset  numbers  hath  transpos'd  each  lins. 
Hel  soy  no  less,  for  hia  ear-charminc  Ijre 
CoQllnns  as  cnai/h  ;  whose  strains  1  do  attire 
Id  English  gttarb  ;  yet  if  so  be  my  quill 
Come  short  of  his,  'tis  want  of  art  not  wilL 
Then  cease  y'  bawling,  Furyes,  reprehend 
Id  milder  terms,  liid  the  next  time  we'l  mend." 
Myqueiy:  lathe  book  in  piint?  A.  G. 

Bis&OF  Jbrbut  Taylor. — I  have  latelj  Beer 
inquirieB  in  the  "N.  &  Q."  for  descendanta  of 
Bishop  Jeremy  Taylot.  My  object  ia  not  to 
answer  tlioae  inqulriea,  but  to  make  an  inquiry 
myself.  A  Christopher  Taylor,  son  of  a  Jamee 
Taylor,  iTonmonKer  in  DubOo  (yho  was  dead 
1733),  was  bound  apprentice  in  1738  to  a  grocer 
in  London,  and  became  himself  a  grocer,  having 
a  shop  in  Oracechurch  Street.  He  waa  bom  in 
1717,  and  ia  1737  (or  thereabouts)  married  Anne, 
the  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  Edward  Hales,  Bart,  of 
the  city  of  Lincoln. 

Christopher  Taylor  resided  in  the  pftrish  of  St. 
Kagnus,  London  Bridge,  and  bad  a  large  family. 
Hia  eldest  son,  also  named  Christopher,  was  rec- 
tor of  Selbome  when  White,  the  historian  of 
Selborne,  was  curate  there.  The  family  is  now 
extinct  in  the  mala  line. 

I  should  mention  that  Christopher  Taylor,  the 
father,  became  clerk  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Bartho- 
lomew, and  died  there  at  the  age  of  fifty. 

There  haa  been  a  notion  in  the  family  that 
Christopher  Taylor  descended  from  the  bishop. 
Can  any  of  the  readers  of  "  N.  &  Q."  aay  whether 
there  ia  any  reaacm  to  believe  that  the  tradition  is 
true  or  notP  Cecil  Uokbo. 

Conservative  Club.  S.W. 

SEtBT  Famili.— Can  any  reader  of  "  N.  ft  Q." 
give  me  particnlars  of  the  early  life  and  parentis 
of  Charles  Selhy,  the  actorP  If  so,  I  shall  be 
mnch  obliged  by  commanicatione  addressed  to 
H.  A.  BuirBRiBSB,  S4,  Russell  Road,  KenMng- 
ton.W. 


(4"-  a  viL  143,  267.) 
I  am  indebted  to  Hamlet  Wfktling,  Esq.,  of 
Stonham,  for  the  following  description  of  Bram- 
field  screen.  There  ate  five  panels  remwning,  on 
which  are  piunted  SS.  Mark,  Luke,  John,  Mat- 
thew, Majj  Magdalene. 

S.  Mark  is  vested  in  a  full  whit«  mantle,  un- 
derdress  of  green ;  his  right-hand  points  to  a 
scroll  dn  which  is  written  cv .  watvs  bssit  ihb 
m  BBDELEH  jvDX.  The  bachgTouod  ia  of  gold 
with  the  "  Vesica,"  on  which  is  ihs  in  monogmn. 
At  the  head  of  this  stunt  the  background  b  Uas 
nith  gold  Stan,  with  sabctvs  habcvs  in  old  Gn^ 
lish  letters. 

S.  Matthew,  holding  a  pen  in  his  right  band,  ii 
vested  in  carmine  mantle,  green  underdrees,  scroll 
in  left  hand,  Bacvbet  ad  btk  siscifal  bring 
writt«n  thereon;  the  badtground  same  as  Isst, 
but  blocf  diaper  in  squares,  and  SAKCTva  UAraiTS 
in  old  English  letters, 

S.  John  is  of  a  youthful  countenance,  bur  d 
reddish  brown,  Tested  in  white  mantle,  red  un- 
dergarment: he  holds  an  open  book  in  bis  left 
hand.  At  the  derter  comer  below  is  an  eagle  of 
gold  colour;  background  same  as  other8,emboMd 
gold,  on  which  is  painted  sancta  joakbs. 

S.  Luke  has  a  gold  niiobiis ;  the  mantie  of  greffl 
lined  white,  the  undergarment  of  a  bright  orange. 
At  the  dexter  corner  below  is  the  head  of  an  oi. 
This  saint  bears  a  scroll,  on  which  is  written 

MieSIS  EST  GABRIEL. 

S.  Mary  Magdalene.  This  figure  is  the  finest 
specimen  of  screen  painting  in  Suffolk.  Her  head 
ia  surrounded  by  a  nimbus  with  radiating  rays, 
the  headdress  of  rich  green ;  in  front  a.  band  of 
jeveU,  in  the  centre  a  quatrefoil-like  ornament 
of  precious  stoaes.  The  mantle  of  rich  rose  colour 
lined  green,  looped  up  on  the  right  side  hy  a  cord; 
the  uuderdrees  is  of  gold  colour,  and  nchly  em- 
broidered with  red  flowers.  In  her  right  hand 
she  holds  the  pot  of  ointment,  richly  jewelled 
with  pearls  and  emeralds,  and  surmonntea  with  a 
cross    of  pearls;  the    backgroand    is    inscribed 

BABCIA  MAGD. 

Mr.  Watling  points  out  the  great  nmilaritj 
between  the  figures  of  this  screen  and  the  illu- 
minatdooa  in  the  Bible,  once  the  property  of  1^^ 
abbey  at  Bnry,  now  at  Pembroke  College,  Cam- 
bridge, and  considers  tiiat  this  proves  tbis  screen 
to  be  the  work  of  the  monks  at  Bury  or  Thet- 
fbrd. 

Se<i^teld.~The  screen  is  boarded  up,  but  ia 
Davy's  MSS.  on  Suffolk  is  the  following  :— 

KObtVS  DERI,  ALiciA  TZ  . 

JohvS  XAyBVOH. 

JOELt  .  PPTA BABTCB  .  P.P.T.A. 


■ 


DigiiizedbyCjOOy  IC 


4<k&TU.JuinEl7,'7I0 


NOTES  AND  QUBBIES. 


517 


BadvttM  ^lA.— The  ibllowiii^  from  Davy's  MSS. 
relates  to  this  soneii,  dow  eobrely  destioyed  :— 

Orate . . .  pro . . .  uabue . . .  Johes . . .  Boker .... 
et . . .  luCB ....  fil ... .  mTiD . . .  bvc .... 

Natt.  On  the  battreases  of  tbis  church  are  the 
too]«  of  a  blacksmith  designed  in  fliutwork,  with 
t^e  letter  B  repeated  maaj  times.  Doubtless  this 
B  ia  the  iuitial  of  the  benefactor  to  the  church, 
perbapB  of  the  name  of  Boker,  as  on  the  screen. 

Bammgkam  contsined  a  good  ecreen.  On  the 
beam  wss  painted — 

PLASBu^T  EST  ma  sck.  TEiniiA.  vn  dxvv 

SKFTLTTS  ESI  .  IBS. 

SapiMtM^—Na  trace  of  this  Mreen  now  remidD& 
There  weie  some  thirty  yean  aoo  two  panels 


ADOBAJCTS  E  SKB  BT  BENBsiciMTs  TiBi.  The  Other 
panel  represented  a  congregation  in  prayer ;  from 
the  mouth  of  one  was  written— aviA  psb  boax 
CBTCEH  ttak  KBDBjnsn  KTRDTic,  the  back- 
ground diapered  with  ihb  Id  noni^inHn,  and  it 
with  a  crown  on  the  top. 

In  my  next  I  will  describe  Ufford,  Hitcham, 
and  others  from  information  eent  to  me  direct 
from  many  dsTgr  and  gentn-  in  Snflblk,  to  whdm 
I  am  deeply  indented  for  their  kindness  IJi  answer- 
ing so  fully.  W,  Mabsh, 

7,  Bed  Lion  Sqaar^ 


MORAL  PAINTIMG   IN  STAKSTON  CHUBCH, 

NORFOLK.' 
(4''  S.  Ti.  pamm ;  Tii.  40, 172,  245,  368,  410.) 
I  am  now  in  a  portion,  hamg  the  engraving 
by  mjaide,  to  complete  my  replv  to  the  strictures 
of  F.  C.  H.,  which  I  shall  do  as  briefly  as  pomible. 
Fint,  as  to  the  altar,  or  head  of  the  bed.  With 
jne  each  detaila  are  decided  by  precedents.  I  have 
examined  twenty  meditev el  examples  of  beds  from 
.  the  ninth  to  the  fifteenth  century,  with  almost  tia 
equal  number  of  altani,  and  find  that  the  Aill  of 
drapery  in  the  painting  is  like  the  latter ;  and  I 
have  only  one  instance  of  'Uie  former  which  at  all 
resembles  it,  and  that  rather  remot«ly.  Unbappily, 
the  upper  part  being  effnced,  it  ia  now  impoasible 
to  decide  absolutely  either  way.  It  ia  important 
to  note  that  the  efiaced  portion  show  us  a  sub- 
etratum  of  p^ting,  and  this  coincides  in  character 
with  that  panelled  work  beneath  the  figure  hold- 
ing the  scroll.  Tbis,  with  the  form  resemblina  a 
stump  of  a  tree  of  a  bright  red  colour,  and  also 
the  bright  red  "  post "  to  which  F,  C  H.  refers 
as  bein?  part  of  tne  bedstead,  ia  so  different  in  its 
manipulation,  proportion  of  ports,  colours,  &c,  to 
the  rest,  that  it  must  all  he  referred  to  a  previous 
deooratioQ  beneath.    It  is  obvious  that  such  has 


*  Concluded  fmin  p.  499. 


existed,  and  it  complicates  the  explanation  of  the 
detaila.  The  base  of  the  bedstead  F.  C.  H.  saya 
"  apparently "  fits  bto  thispoat;  that  is  to  say, 
we  have  a  scarlet  post  to  a  atone-coloured  base. 
A  very  original  combination  t  But  to  my  eyes  it 
does  not  fit  in,  for  there  is  a  gap  between,  showing 
a  diapered  pattern,  somewhat  eimilar  to  that  of 
the  "covering"  of  which  I  shall  now  speak.  This 
F.  0.  H.,  in  a  tone  of  authority,  declares  to  be  "a 
screen  of  wood  or  other  solid  substance  painted 
in  diaper."  It  is  therefore  inevitable  that  the  bed 
must,  for  the  ^ater  part,  be  behind  the  screen. 
So  an  artist,  representmg  a  death-bed,  places  all 
bat  the  head  behind  a  screen.  In  the  whole 
range  of  art  there  will  not  be  found  a  parallel. 
Now  as  to  the  "  chalice."  Here  I  entirely  s^ree 
with  F.  C.  H-'s  observations.  If  the  form  given 
in  the  engraving  ia  a  correct  delineation,  there  ia 
no  idialice;  neither,  bv  that  same  evidence,  is 
there  a  shield,  for  its  shape  is  at  least  a  hundred 
and  fifty  years  too  late ;  nor,  by  the  eamn  rule,  is 
it  "anieceof  embroidery  "belonging  to  the  figure 
behind.  The  "cope,"  with  all  deference,  is  no 
cope.  It  is  difBoult  to  imagine  bow  such  a  con- 
duMon  could  be  arrived  at.  A  cope  ia  open  in 
front,  and  is  fastened  by  a  morse  on  the  nreast. 
This  ia  not  so,  but  is  indeed  a  chasuble,  F.  C.  H.'s 
experience  notwithstanding  —  one  of  the  period, 
however,  ample  in  folds,  falling  down  over  the 
arms  beyond  the  elhow,  and  showing  also  an  in- 
dication of  the  amice  above  it  It  is  a  matter  to 
be  decided  by  the  evidence  of  examples.  All  the 
rest  of  the  figure  thua  attired  ia  obscure.  Now  as 
to  the  absence  of  the  nimbus.  F.  C.  H.  saya  it 
equally  militates  against  my  "  theory ;  "  at  the 
same  time  he  tells  you  it  is  often  omitted.  Now 
the  objection  is  a  just  one,  and  although  against 
my  views,  I  will  not  allow  of  a  fallacious  argu- 
ment. The  "  nimbus  "  ia  omitted  by  some  schools 
late  in  mediseval  ait,  but  in  the  thirteenth  century 
it  ia  not  80 ;  and  the  total  absence  of  it  in  the 
Stnraton  painting  ia  very  remarkable.  I  was  not 
unatvare  of  this  wenk  point,  but  thought  I  bad  a 
good  argument  in  this  case.  Unless,  however,  1 
can  fortify  it  by  good  precedent,  1  ahall  allow  it 
to  stand  against  me. 

Having  replied  to  those  o'^ections  I  considered 
most  material,  I  now  proceed  to  the  legend  of  8t. 
Mary  Ma^alene.  F.  C.  H.  tells  you  I  profess  to 
"  fake  this  from  an  old  German  account."  My 
"German  account"  vroe  one  of  many,  and  vras 
only  alluded  to.  He  then  proceeds  to  state  that 
"  no  one  was  present  at  that  (her  death)  but  the 
bishop,"  and  that  it  was  in  his  church  and  not  In 
an  oratory.  He  then  italicises  a  passage  of  mine 
relating  to  the  congregation  of  the  cle^y,  with 
the  evident  intention  of  showing  a  want  of  good 
faith  on  my  part,  and  that  the  passage  was  my 
invention.  Were  F.  C.  H.  the  only  one  to  be 
considered,  I  should  AiadalB  to  reply,  but  your 


518 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[i'»B.VILJinml7,'TL 


Teaders  require  it    Thna  then  ehall  mj/  anthorify 
(^&rmone»  Dormt  tecwi)  answer : — 

"Cotwoado  igilur  uairtrto  dm  et  prtdkto  $aardoli 
M«ri«  Maedslens  coipm  et  Mngaineni  etun  molt*  inr- 
datioDS  l»chryiMnnti  •b  optacopo  siucepit :  ddnde  pt 
tr«U  into  ilUn  MnctiMima  fjn*  uiinui  «d  domin 
migMYit :  et  UiBell  ejas  anim«n  cam  hymnu  at  cinUds 
in  cdamperdnxenint:  incujoseiiluUntimaaTiMJmiu 
odor  ibidem  reniinsit ;  nt  pet  Mptem  die*  «b  ingiedientl- 
biu  oraloritm  untlnt,"  Ae, 

Any  comment  is  mmeeeesary,  as  I  bIkJI  leave 

Kiur  readers  now  to  judgo  between  ua.  Asregardf 
artha's  death,  &c,  I  connael  F,  C.  H.  ta  further 
reaearch ;  for  I  am  not  called  upon  to  give  autho- 
rities to  one  who  hu  so  indiscroeilT  challenged 
my  veracity.  Should  I  pursue  the  subject,  I  shall 
not  fsil  to  Butetantiate  what  I  have  uttered. 

The  rest  of  F.  C.  H.'s  remarks  refer  to  the  ob- 
servation of  the  uttUiet.     Now,  are  they  not  con- 
stantly, even  upon  principle,  I  would  say,  violal 
in  le^ndary  art  P  It  is  well  known  it  is  so  P  ^ 
ia  there  any  subject  in  which  the  unities  are  m( 
violated  than  in  the  "Death  of  the  V>^"  a 
the'"  Assumption,"  as  any  one  can  convince  hii 
self  of  by  the  smallest  amount  of  research-  I  have 
left  many  points  urged  by  F.  0.  H.  unnoticed 
because  I  am  really  indifferent  to  the  issue,  ar-* 
also  consider  them  ot  secondary  importance, 
is  not  my  "  theorv,"  nor  that  of  F,  C.  H.  which  . 
of  consequence,  tut  irutA,  which  is  only  to  he 
obtained  by  the  colliuon  and  expression  of  opinion. 


68,  Boluver  Stmt,  W. 


J.  G.  Wii 


"JACK"  BUBTON. 
(4*  S.  viL  321, 360,;442.) 
Your  correspondent  Eowakd  Rowbek  is 
error  when  he  speaks  of  the  celebrated  Miss  Soie 
Barton,  daughter  of  ]>.  Burton,  Canon  of  Christ 
Chuicb,  better  known  by  the  name  of  "  Jack  " — 
her  name  was  "Rachel,  I  was  very  well  ac- 
qnMnted  both  with  her  and  her  father.  I  should 
think  she  never,  in  youth,  -waa  more  than  "good 
looking  and  fresh."  She  waa  certainly  very  clever. 
Her  misfortune  was  to  have  chiefly  livea  in  the 
sodety  of  men.  She  used  to  have  frequent  en- 
counters of  wit  with  the  late  Lord  Dudley,  Can- 
ning, and  others,  in  which  she  sustained  her  part 
weU.  Her  verses  were  nearly  all  satirical.  I  have 
copies  of  several:  one  is  addressed  to  the  Hon. 
Charles  Bagot,  "  My  Apolofrr  on  his  objecting  to 
the  Manners  of  a  certtun  Nobleman,  whom  I  at- 
tempted to  vindicate."  One  of  the  stanzas  runs 
thus: — 

"  USD,  ■hoekiog  to  the  eir  refined, 
Wbene'er  ht^i  pleased,  he  speaks  Mi  nund ; 

And  not  like  jon  and  Bloara. 
Dlapleued  mth  avny  thing  yoa  att. 
From  pUjs  and  balls  and  ODBoerts  flee. 
And  vol*  tlum  all  a  ban." 


Another  is  addressed  (conveying  iromesl  compli- 
ments) to  Lord  Garlies,  and  eveir  verse  ends  with 
"  Lord  Galloway's  son."  'ITie  last  stuua  ii  the 
following :  — 

"  In  >  WMd,  UwD,  tbli  yontb  hii  so  ^ned  oa  my  heart, 
Iliit  if  fate,  cruel  fkla,  ahonld  ordun  ni  to  part,  » 
In  the  world  I'll  not  tanj,  bat  qnichlr  tim  nim. 
And  in  prayers  end  my  hit,  for  Lord  QaliowaT'i  na." 
All  her  verses  are  ugned  "  Ttachael  Buttm." 
Dire   feuds  existed  between  Rachel  and  I«dv 
Fegge,  the  wife  of  Dr.  Pegge,  afterwards  knighteo, 
and  Regius  Professor  of  Medicine,    Whw  the 
Oxford  Volunteer  corps  were  formed  of  the  dtiHU 
and  membeia  of  the  University,  and  Rachel  and 
Lady  Mackworth  presented  the  heroes  with  eototiTL 
Rachel  produced  the  following  squib,  which  t 
send  yon  as  it  is  short :  — 


(jtfui  BiirtoH  bfHi'ftir.) 

"  Twice  twenty  sons  of  peers,  in  bright  artsy. 
Formed  a  proud  line,  and  bore  my  flags  awsy; 
Seized  my  gay  banners  wllh  a  decent  pHde, 
And  Bwoiatokeep  them,  Bgbtini;  by  thcdrnds; 
For  these,  they  cry,  we  every  toil  will  bear— 
And  bravery  aad  beanty  filled  the  air." 
(Lady  J(acJh»rtt  bgnitw-.) 

"  Twice  twenty  tradesmen  formed  into.a  row. 
Made  at  injr  feet  a  fine  and  comely  show ; 
A  son  of  Galen,  atattoned  at  their  head. 
Who  swem  hell  atilka  the  aona  of  Gallia  dead : 
Not  all  yoDi  noblea^  la  the  fhmt  or  rear, 
'Can  fell  a  FrsDchman  with  a  greater  fear ; 
For. 


w  they  SI 


If  shown  the  phlsla  la  my  captaia'i  shop : 
And,  coward-like,  would  scamper  in  a  trie 
If  lAnatatcd  ftit  with  Uqor  Feggfi'l  adai 


trice. 


Ton  have  conjured  up  the  remembrances  of 
more  than  half  a  century.  I  have  a  caricature 
drawing  too  of  her,  very  like ;  but  that  I  will  not 
send  you.  She  vraa  a  sight  to  see  at  the  decisis- 
tion  of  the  poll  at  Lord  Grenville's  election  »s 
Chancellor,  m  1809,  embracing  the  doctors  of  b«r 
party  in  the  midnight  convocation.  Her  father,  tto, 
a  very  worthy  man,  was  an  original.     She  had  a 

Jounger  sister,  who  married  a  Fellow  of  Msg^ 
slen  (I  think),  of  which  body  her  uncle  Jenner 
vras  ft  member.  aW.L. 


POETRY  OF  THE  CLOUDS. 
(*"■  S.  viL  319,  S97.) 
The  following  pass^es  from  Antimjf  owrf  Cl'^ 
patra,  if  known  to  Do  Quincey,  might  have  caused 
him  materially  to  mo^  his  extravagant  notion 
of  Wordsworth's  poetry.  Shakespeare  seems  to 
have  eihausted  the  enbject  in  a  single  psasg". 
and  one  can  hardly  ima^e  how  this  V*'"^^ 
much  ta  the  point,  could  escape  the  rsooUsction 
ofDeQuiocey:—     ,     ,790  by  CtOOQ  Ic 


i<*S.Vir.  Jinwl7,*71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


"  3oin«tiin«  «a  see  ■  eland  that'i  ditsoniib  j 
A  vapDor  •DineUma  like  a  bur  or  Uoo, 
A  lower'd  ciUdel,  a  pendent  rock, 
A  forked  monntiin,  or  blue  promoDtoty 
With  trtes  npoa't,  that  nod  unto  the  worid, 
And  mock  onr  eyea  irith  air:  than  hast  Mcn  th«M 

dgm; 
They  are  block  v«q>er's  pageanU." 
"  That  which  i»  now  a  bortt,  eren  with  a  thought 
The  r«dc  dUUmna." 

But  o^er  poets  hxn  not  been  unobserrant  of 
cloud  MsensTj,  and  I  have  no  doubt  the  following 
extracta  can  be  largely  added  to.     KQlton,  in 
Paradiie  Lost,  has  the  ioUowing :  — 
■*  Soch  a  fnnta 
Etch  cast  at  the  other,  aa  when  two  black  cicada 
With  heav'o'e  artillery  fiaught,  come  rattling  on 
Over  Uie  Caaplan,  then  itand  rront  to  ^nt, 

" '-- ■> -•-J- "-- -Ignal  blow 

Id  air." 
Book  ilL  714-8. 
In  Comui  we  find — 

"  Did  a  sabte  ctoud 
Tom  forth  her  •iWer  lining  on  the  night,"* 
And  in  His  oda  "On  the  Morning  of  Christ's 
Nativity":  — 

"  So,  when  the  inn  in  bed, 
Curtain 'd  with  cloudy  red, 
Pillows  his  chin  npon  an  orient  wave." 
In  Quarles'  Siiblemt  we  find :  — 
■■  To  dlaKtlve  a  rock 
Of  marble  cloads  into  a  morning  ehower." 

Book  T.  6. 
And  in  his  Hieroglypkies  (xit.  1} :  — 
"  Bright  Huo'a  hair; 
Whose  western  wudrobe  now  begins  t'unfi^d 
Her  pnrplei,  ftinged  with  gold 
To  clothe  his  ev'ning  glory."! 
Beattie,  in  the  Mmdrd  (Book  i.),  has  the  fol- 
lowing passage :  — 

"  Oft  when  the  winter  stoim  had  ceased  to  rMve, 
He  roam'd  the  snowy  waste  at  even,  to  view 
The  clond  stnpendons,  from  tb'  Atlantic  wan 
High- towering,  sail  along  Ch'  horizon  blue : 
Where,  'midst  the  chsneefal  scenery,  erer  new, 
Fancv  a  thonsand  wond  roas  forma  descries, 
Uore  wildly  great  than  ever pencdl  drew: 
Rocks,  torrents,  cdI^  and  shapes  oF  giant  uie, 
And  glitt'ring  clilfs  on  cllSii,  and  fiery  ramparts  rise." 
Young,  in  hia  Night  ThoagkU  (ii.  1.  554-7)  haa, 
as  follows ;  — 

"  Clouds,  In  heav'n's  loom 
Wroaght  throngh  varieties  ot  shape  and  shade. 
In  ample  folds  of  drapery  diving 
Thy  flowing  mantle  fimn." 


•  Imiuted  by  Yonng :  — 

"  Oaea  I  beheld  a  sun,  a  son  which  gilt 

That  sable  eland,  and  turned  it  all  to  gold." 

SigSl  Thim^,  Tii.  1.  815. 
t  See  Collins'l  Oda  to  Evamg: — 
«  The  bright-hair'd  ran 

Sits  in  yon  western  tent,  whose  cloudy  skirts. 


Bnt  it  is  to  Sbellej,  with  his  ezqniaite  fimcy 
and  felicity  of  description,  we  must  award  the 
palm  as  the  poet  of  the  clouds.  A  cluster  of  de- 
Bghtfiil  passages  are  found  in  the  opening  lines 
of  his  Queen  Jtfa6  (book  it.),  from  which  I  may 
select  the  following; — 

"  the  miowy  donds 
Edged  with  intolerabta  radiancy. 
Towering  like  rocks  of  jet. 
Crowned  with  a  diamond  wreath." 

"  Far  clonds  of  ttethery  gold. 
Shaded  with  deepest  pnirile,  gleam 
Like  Mands  on  a  dark  bine  aea." 

"  Golden  islands. 
Gleaming  in  yon  flood  of  light." 

"  bsthery  e^rt■iD^ 
Stretching  o'er  the  ann's  bright  conch." 

"  fertile  golden  islands. 
Floating  on  a  silver  sea." 
And  in  a  poem  entitled  The  Cloud; — 

"  With  wings  folded  I  rest,  on  mine  airy  Dest, 
And  still  as  a  brooding  duve," 
But  it  would  occupy  too  much  space  here  to 
<{uot«  all  the  passages  one  finds  in  Shelley  relate 
ing  to  this  subject  If  Mb.  Cottbkill  will  lead 
The  Witch  ofAtlat,  he  will  find  other  passages  to 
add  to  his  Uat ;  and  he  will  also  be  rewaraed  in 
reading  Mariatme't  Dream,  A  Vition  of  the  Sea, 
and  Evaiittg.  T.  M'GBATa. 


BEALH. 

(4""  S.  iii  T.  vi,  pastim ;  tU.  370.) 

It  is  with  some  reluctance  that  I  return  to 

this  discussion,  inasmuch  as  Mb.  Cbascs,  instead 

of  meeting  the  mun  ailment,  still  dwells  on 
irrelevant  points.  The  real  question  is,  whether 
the  «  found  in  reaulme  of  the  sixteentii  century 
ia  intiu^ve  or  oivanic  I  have  shown  by  re- 
ference to  the  analc^ea  of  the  f^nch  language, 
and  in  conformity  with  all  the  philological  autho- 
rities—Diez,  BurguT,  Scheler,  Brache^  &c — that 
it  is  the  I,  and  not  the  u,  that  is  intrusive — the  u 
which  in  this  class  of  words  is'  organic,  amply 
representing  the  softening  of  the  I— as,  e.  f.,  in  Aairf, 
from  allut.  Until  Mb,  Ckanor  can  prove  that 
this  automatic  phenomenon  was  not  a  featnre  of 
the  earliest  FVancb,  it  is  quite  bemde  the  question 
to  quota  instances  from  later  times,  when  theories 
baa  superseded  natural  lawn,  and  the  language 
had  become  corrupted,  to  show  that  I  ap^wed 
alongside  of  the  organic  u.  The  fact  la  not 
disputed,  but  it  is  munluned  that  it  was  due 
to  the  scribe's  ignorance  of  the  original  laws  of 
formation,  to  a  fantastic  spirit  of  innoration,  or 
to  an  absurd  ambition  to  mend  what  required  no 
mending.  This  is  the  real  queatiou  between  me  and 
Mb-Chahce.  Whether  the  word  cAennb  was  spelt 
ehevax,  cheBoui,  or  chevaux,  is  really  no  part  of  the  l  C 
alignment.    The  fint  fram  is  probably  the  earliest 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4*  S.  VII.  Jon  17,  TL 


in  point  of  lame.  SiibMqneiitly,oT  even  contatDpo- 
raneously — for  the  point  is  doubtful — x  was  used 
(see  Buigay,  i.  91)  u  a  contraction  of  i«  or  tu, 
DBDOa  chevax ;  then  the  proper  meaiuDg  of  the  x 
bwng^  miaunderstood,  it  was  frequently  employed 
for  simple  »,  and  hence  ehnaux  =  ckemiu.  So 
in  regard  to  doli  or  dtiia  (which  I  do  not  deny 
to  be  A  raii&ut  of  the  word,  thoagh  I  have  not 
Been  it),  also  found  u  doat,  dot,  with  the  femi~ 
tune  forms  duke,  duet,  doute,  dtruee,  it  is  evident 
that  there  ia  no  trace  of  "the  insertdoa  of  o 
[or  u]  before  the  {  dropped."  The  organic  /  is 
umply  superseded  hy  an  organic  k,  or  b  is  oon- 
tracted  into  z-=  t.  In  no  one  of  theee  fonna  tihie- 
vaut,  chevaux,  chevax,dot,  &c.  is  w  "interpolated." 
Douk,  quoted  by  Mb.  Cbakob  fron  Machault,  ia 
reallr  a  case  in  point,  and  can  only  be  ezpluned, 
as  I  nave  before  shown,  by  considering  the  dou  as 
a  phonetic  spelling  of  the  fourteenth  century  (at 
which  time  u  had  universally  become  <nf),  of  du. 
I  have  in  the  preceding  remarhs  deaignediy  gone 
over  ground  ab«ady  trodden  in  order  to  keep  the 
real  point  of  the  argument  &om  bmng  loat  in  ir- 
relerant  discnsdon. 

Mr.  Chlkci,  in  quoting  Irotn  Ampere,  seems 
not  to  be  aware  that  Ampere  is  umply  stating 
Fallot's  TiewB,  not  hia  own.  Ampere's  book, 
though  very  interesting  in  many  respects,  is  of 
no  autbori^  on  dialects.  It  appears  to  me  that 
Mr.  Csancb  has  not  examined  for  himself  Fal- 
lot'a  and  Barguy's  elaborate  discusaons  of  the 
matters  which  he  treats  in  hia  lust  paper. 
I  have  been  "inaccurate  "  and  "poMtive  i 
mvsenting  their  views,  no  one  will  regret  these 
aolts  more  than  myself;  but  Irefrcdn  from  entering 
on  Jthem  again,  as  beftiinK  only  very  remotely  on 
the  queation  before  us,  and  leamng  U>  an  intermin- 
able controversy  on  old  French  dialects.  I  umply 
beg  to  remark  in  reference  to  Wace's  works  as 
spedmens  of  Norman  French,  that  the  best  judges 
are  of  opinion  that  they  very  inadequately  repre- 
sent that  dialect'  Fallot  says  (p.  486)  of  the 
Roman  da  Sou,  "  Le  dialecte  de  Normandie  y 
est  mfilang^  en  bien  dea  parties  {  il  y  a  de  longs 
&agmens  oil  il  n'en  reate  que  fort  peu  de  traces," 
ana  he  states  his  opinion  that  "la  copie  n'est  pas 
ancienne :  on  ne  voit  plus  la  correction  et  la 
rigide  observation  dee  regies  qui  caractSrisent  les 
boQs  monuscritB."  Indeed,  if  Wace's  writings 
ore  compared  with  genuine  Anglo-Norman  texts, 
auob  as  Charlemagne,  Tlte  Conqwtd  of  Ireland,  and 
The  Ufe  of  Edward  the  Cwfettor,  it  will  be  seen 


at  once  that  Wace  is  no  Angb-Normtm  writer  in 
the  proper  sense  of  the  term.  Amp^'a  o^nioo 
to  the  contrary  is  of  no  vfdue. 

I  remaric,  with  some  aurprise,  that  Mk.  Ohuce 
seems  to  consider  that  the  Scottish  «iin(  for  mA, 
mnut  for  malt,  &c.  confirm  his  hypotheeis.  They 
appear  to  me  to  confute  it 

Mb.  Chanos  will  probably  pronounce  me  osreD 
because  I  decliue  to  go  throagh  his  eaaes  in 
detiol,  and  defend,  as  I  best  could,  my  "intc- 
cnracies."  I  am  well  content,  however,  to  gin 
him  the  beneSt  of  such  a  victory,  and  ^nply  Hk 
him  to  render  it  complete  by  refatiDg  the  propo- 
sitions at  the  dose  of  my  last  paper  [i"^  S.  tL 
—  -  J.  Path. 

Oardou. 


196.) 
KiidueOi 


*  Those  irba  desire  to  know  what  the  chsracteristlcs  of 
ABgla-Nonnin  were  may  be  refsrred  to  ■  paper  t^  the 
pruent  writer  in  the  TmaaaHnu  of  the  Philoiieiintl 
Society,  1B6B-9,  "TheNonnu  Element  Id  the  ^ken 
Hud  irritten  Engliih  of  the  Twelfth,  Thirteenth,  and 
Fonrteenth  Centarlei,  ind  In  onr  ProTineUI  Dialecta 
'"-■"■  -II  Ernimiiutlm  of  Ohancpr*)  use  of  Oiv  fintl  t.) 


SEl',; 


MABBIAG&8  OF  EHQLI3H  PRINCESSES. 
(4*  S.  viL  203,  280,  300,  897.) 
,  If  one  of  the  most  famous  belles  and  Bccoia< 
plished  women  of  the  fourteenth  century — aha 
who  was  pronounced  in  Committee  of  the  whola 
House  of  Court  ladies  to  be  "  la  mieux  dsniant  st 
mieuz  chantant" — could  read  the  Uat  of  Jusn 
Nbpos,  her  train  of  rayed  bandekyn  woold  stand 
on  end  in  indignation  at  the  preBumpti(»i  that  it 
could  be  complete  without  her.  He  will  aUo* 
me  to  present  him  to  the  Lady  Elizabeth  of  Lan- 
caster, second  sister  of  Henrv  IV.,  who  bestowed 
her  hand  in  succession  on  tbree  British  anbjedt. 
She  married  (1)  in  1379-80,  John  Hastings,  of 
his  line  third  and  last  Earl  of  Pembroke,  from 
whom  she  was  divorced ;  (2)  about  1381,  John 
de  Holond,  Karl  of  Huntingdon  and  Dnke  of 
Exeter,  beheaded  Jan.  7,  1400;  (3)  in  140(>-1, 
John  Cornwall,  Lord  Fanhope.  Elisabeth  died 
Not.  24,  1425.  Her  firet  and  third  msTxisffes 
were  iasneless,  but  by  tiie  second  she  was  the 
mother  of  three  sons  and  two  daughters.  Xh« 
Registers  of  John  of  Gaunt,  her  father,  record 
numereus  it«na  of  provisian  for  the  comfort  and 
dignity  of  "  n?e  file  de  Penbrok " :  and  h« 
brother.  King  Henry,  exhibited  in  a  characteristic 
manner  his  attachment  to  this  his  favourite  aistet 
by  a  grant  dated  Dec.  13,  1400,  bestowing  upon 
her  an  exquisite  collection  of  the  goods  of  W 
deceased  and  attainted  husband  the  Dnke  of 
Exeter ;  to  wit,  one  old  bed  of  bandekyn,  with  sa 
old  celer  and  tester  of  silk,  BBventean  anaeat 
carpets,  eleven  towels,  and  "  manutw^^  veitsia 
et  tracU,"  an  old  newter  baun,  and  sundry  otbei 
valuables  of  the  like  character.  Any  one  wh" 
wishes  to  peruse  his  majesty's  noble  ust  of  dfts 
to  his  sister  will  find  it  in  Rot.  Fat.  3  H.  TV, 
Part  1.  I  ought  to  add  that  he  gave  her  othet 
things  better  worth  having  on  later  occaaionfc 

There  are  two  other  princesses  whose  clslms  to 
appearance  on  the  list  should  at  least  be  taken  into 
consideration.    Mary,  Oanijliter  of  Edwarf  uL, 


*tts.vu.Jumi7,7io  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


521 


matried  Jean  de  Brela^e,  Duke  of  Bretagae  and 
Count  of  Bteox,  who  bad  been  Karl  of  Riijlimo&d, 
and  though  he  had  resigned  his  earldom  before 
marriage,  he  nevertheless  continued  a  BritJab  anb- 
ject,  and  received  a  second  grant  of  the  earldom 
1D139&  Again,  Man\daughterofGeorgein„in 
marrying  her  cousin  William  Duke  of  Gloi 


Gundreda,  married  to  William  de  Warremie, 
Earl  of  Surrey,  from  which  union  is  descended 
the  house  of  Howard,  is  included  by  some  his- 
torianB  and  genealogists  amongst  the  daughters  of 
William  the  Conqueror.  A.  S. 


OVID,  "METAM."  XIII.  S64!  "  BENIGNIOB." 

(4**  8.  vii,  456.) 
Planudes  translates  the  passage : — 

ou  TOiruv  Toil  Inoi'i  6rip  Trjt  KaTaaKor^aims  7cfHU  A 
(l7«<I^Ti|Mi  i  Afru  SemcTv. 

Boisaonade  saya  in  a  note : — 

"Idtim,  '  fncritqne  benignlor  AJax,'  valde  Bant  ob- 
»cara,  Bdinia  foraaii  Uc  eat: — ipse  Ajax  vobta,  ■!  anoa 
Dcsivcritis,  poterit  esse  benignlor,  nee  ea  mihi  recnssre : 
taulnm  mibi  est  in  ea  jaria." 

VoBS  translates: 

"  Schligt  dcas  Wiffen  mir  ab,  nnd  ea  lei  dec  TardltaUfe 
Ajsi." 

The  obscurity  of  the  passage  is  shown  by  the 
vtolent  efforts  t4)  mend  it.  Muretns  pToposea 
"ferst  hsc  ut  dignior  Ajax,"  and  Koeppeniua 
substitutes  Hector  for  Ajax.  I  agree  witn  Mb. 
Knra  that  there  is  "  a  manifest  eneer  in  the  worda," 
and  I  offer  a  very  moderate  alteration — 

"  Arms  DegRte  mihi ;  fitrtba  benignlar  Ajax  ?  " 

I  quote  from  Lemaire's  edition,  tomes  ir,  and  v. 
Pane,  1822.  H.  B.  C. 

u.u.aub. 

"  Cuju»  eqaoa  pTtcinm  pro  Docte  popolcerat  bostis, 
Amis  negate  milii,  faeriCqua  b^gaior  Ajax." 

Mb.  King  deserves  great  praise  for  his  solicitude 
regarding  accuracy  in  this  passage,  as  weU  as  in 
all  other  parts,  of  bis  version  of  the  Metamorphoiet, 
and  for  his  modesij  in  requesting  the  Judgment  of 
others  on  a  point  on  which  he  ia  so  well  able  to 
judge  for  himself,  In  my  opinion  be  Has  given  a 
Tery  satisfactory  sense  of  the  word  hetti^tior  in 
hie  translation.  Itugnifies,  I  consider,  "better 
pleased,  better  satisfied,  more  kindly  disposed  to- 
wards  you."  Faait  is  taken  by  the  Delpbin 
editor  and  others  is  an  imperative  sense,  as  in 
SaU.  Jug.  c.  31 :— ; 

"Sed  isne  faeriC  regni  paratio  plebl  sua  natituere; 
qutcqaid  sine  s«i(CDius  civiom  nldsd  neqoitni,  jnieftc- 
tom  rit."— (Let  tbe  mtoTation  of  Unit  rights  to  the 


jwople  have  been  ai 
which  eannot  be  av 
dtizcna  have  been  done  with  justice.") 

The  sense  of  Ovid's  words  will  then  be,  "  and 
let  Ajax  (by  this  means — when  this  is  done — 
when  the  arms  have  been  given  him)  have  been, 
or  have  become,  better  contented  " ;  or  they  may 
be  turned  optalively,  "mar  Aittx  have  thus  Iwen 
(rendered)  more  favourably  disposed."  But  it 
may  .be  considered  whether  Jverit  may  not  be 
taken  asafuture,  " and  (perhaps)  Ajax  will.W 
this  means  have  become  better  inclined  towarcis 


or  sarcasm  in  the  words  of  Ulysses :  "  Refuse  me 
the  arms  of  him  whose  horses  the  enemy  had 
demanded  as  his  reward,  and  then,  possibly.  Ajax 
■willfeelmorelriendly  towards  you!  TheDelphin 
editor,  who  is  at  all  times  a  -treak  staff  to  lean  on, 
goes  away  firom  the  sense  with  hie  ait  tnc^  de 
vt/bi»  merittit ;  but  he  was  fullv  sensible  of  the 
irony.  In  taking  benignior  in  tne  sense  which  I 
have  suggested,  and  in  which  indeed  Mb.  Ems 
had  already  taken  it,  no  violence  is  done  to  the 
word,  but  it  ia  kept  to  its  ordiuaty  dgnification, 
"kind,"  such  as  it  has  in  Hor.  Sat.  i.  2,  4,  to 
which  Mb.  Knifi  refers.  J.  S.  W. 

Accon^g  to  the  old  Homeric  account  of  the 
conteet  between  Ajai  and  Ulysses  for  the  wms  of 
Achilles,  Ulysses  obtmed  them  by  the  &aud 

{ractised  by  the  Atretdie.  See  Sophocles'  Ajax, 
135,  and  Kndar'aJVefnean,  viiL  26-32,  who  says : 


"  By  secret  ballota  the  Danal  paid  court  to  Ulyoes  ; 
nd  to  4ja'-  deprived  or  tbe  golden  armour,  grained 
rilh  alsughter.    let  very  different  were  the  wounds  tbey 


clave  the  enemies  on  their  warm  flesb.  Then  rebuffed  bf 
the  man-repelling  lance,  paitlj  ia  fighting  over  Achilles 
when  uewl;  slain,  and  in  other  hard  strogglM  On  death- 
desllnf*  days." 

Now  the  oWect  of  Ovid  was  to  remove  the 
coarse  device  of  fraud,  and,  without  denying  that 
Ajax  was  stronger  and  braver  than  Ulysses,  to 
prove  by  argument  that  Ulysses  waa  the  more 
meritorious.  We  mast,  thei«fore,  understand  the 
inseniouB  argument  put  by  Ovid  into  the  month 
of  Ulysses. 

If  the  steeds  of  the  Trojans'  aUv,  Khesus,  had 
not  been  captured  by  the  Greeks  "  before  they  bad 
tasted  the  fodder  of  Troy,  or  drank  of  the  river 
Xanthus"  (^mid,  i.  489-73),  or  (Euripides' 
JtAemu,  498-609)  if  tbe  Greeks  did  not  obtain  the 
Palladium,  or  statue  of  Pallas,  which  tbe  Trojans 
possessed,  Ilium  would  have  been  surrounded  by 
acharm  which  all  tiieproweffi  and  valour  of  Ajax 
and  Achilles  could  not  break  through.  Ulysses 
planned  and  performed  the  capture  of  the  hotsea 
(see. the  K/iemii)  by  leaminf;  the  wat^-word  of  r 
Rhesns'menj  and, diuTiised  as  a  b^gar,  be  made  MC 
his  wayinto  Ilium  and  stole  UiePaUadinm,   This 


CnnBequently  the  nnpuneiit  ofUlysMS  is :  Ajax, 
although  stronfFer  and  braver  than  I,  has  never 
remoyed  any  difficulty  without  the  remoTal  of 
-which  Ilium  could  not  be  captured ;  I  have  ie< 
moved  two ;  in  the  face  of  these  facta,  will  joa 
^ateem  Ajaz  henignior. 
thanlP 


Sdh-Diai.  IB8CEIPTI0M9  (4'*  8.  viL  256, 377.)— 
The  following  insuription  is  engnTsd  on  a  dial 
projectiufr  from  the  cill  of  the  libraiy  window  at 
Alley  HaU,  Cheahire  :— 

"  May  th<  draul  book  at  onr  Uat  Irid, 
When  open  sprawl,  be  like  this  dial ; 
May  Eesrea  roibeu  to  mirk  therein 
Tbe  huDTS  made  dirk  by  deeds  of  lin  ; 
Thou  only  ia  that  record  write 
Which  virtue  like  the  nm  makes  brigbt." 


By  some  actudent  the  letters  n  and  g  in  the  fiird 
word  are  transpoaed.  It  should  have  lieen  printed 

It  may  be  a  bold  thin^  for  an  Englishman  to 
find  fault  with  an  inscription  in  Italian,  set  up  in 
on  Italian  city,  but  haa  not  the  little  word  ns  here 
been  omitted,  which  would  have  given  the  aecond 
line  thus^ 

"  Hs  tn  n'andrii  seszi  lilomo," 


The  other  inscription — 

"Femmt  et  Impauotor," 
appears,  amongst  other  places,  under  the  loner 
Temple  clock,  under  that  in  All  Souls  College, 
Oxford,  and  (I  think)  of  the  Cathedral  at  £xe- 
tet.  It  is  so  truly  religious  and  Christian — 
i,  e.  "  Though  hours  sUp  by  us  idly  and  unprofit' 
ably,  but  are  carefully  wntten  up  against  us  " — 
that  upon  once  asking  an  eicellent  scholar  where 
he  thought  it  was  to  be  found,  he  replied  without 
hesitation  that  he  snppoeed  in  Lactantiua  I  It  ia, 
however  (who  would  think  it  ?),  in  Martial — 

"Ad  JidiKm  Martialem. 
"  NDnc  vivit  situ  nentac  hen,  bonoM|ue 
Sales  effiigere,  itqae  abire  seatit ; 
Qui  nobis  pereuat,  at  impataDtoi." 

JVarfio/u  Epig.  V.  31.  II. 

But  this  is  not  the  only  extraordinaiy  passage  in 
Martial's  writings,  who,  although  he  can  be  not 
unfiequently  aaughty  and  dirtr,  has  in  the  fol- 
lowing linea  to  the  memory  of  Aidmns,  his  youth- 
ful slave,  so  completely  expressed  in  their  fullest 
extent  all  the  tenderness  and  delicacy  of  tiie 


them,  by  causing  them  to  be  lepriated  in  Iu» 


"Ad  A 

*  Aldme,  qoem  rsptnm  d 

Ltbican*  levi  ceipice  velit  bnmu, 
Accipe  Don  Phitio  aatiDtia  ponder*  aaxo. 

Que  dnerl  vaniu  dst  nilCan  Ubor, 
Bed  fngiles  boxoe,  et  opacai  palmitii  ambrai^ 

Qnaqoe  vinnt  laerTmii  bomida  piata  meis. 
Acdpe,  care  pner,  Doatri  moDnmaDtaUbaria: 

Hie  tibi  perpetuo  tempore  vivet  honor. 
Com  mihi  supremoa  lAcheui  pemeveiit  lonoe, 

Hand  aliterdnena  mandojacenmeoA." 

Epig.  1.  as. 

W.I, 

Paslit  oe  Paslhwb  (4*  S.  vii.  210,  SB*.)— I 
am  much  obliged  to  HmtiixMTBimx  for  her  very 
kind  correction  of  the  error — Whalley  is,  <if 
course,  the  abbey  meant    I  am  under  the  im- 

feaaion  that  there  was  a  Sir  Christopher  Pasley, 
nt,  in  the  seventeenth  century.  Probably  1 
have  seen  it  in  some  old  Lancashire  charters  re- 
lating to  Cockeraand  Abbey  once  lent  me  b^  a 
friend,  whose  ancestors,  it  seems,  had  poeaeaaioo 
of  some  of  its  land  at  the  dissolution.  I  should, 
however,  be  glad  of  a  solution  of  thia  register 
mystery — the  marriage  or  burial  in  1638  of  "Hen- 
rietta Maria Christopher  Pasley 

et  h.  of  Tarbock  " — as  anpoars  in  the  tmnacripta 
of  Havton  parish  church.  I  may  renuuk  that 
hom  1617  to  1643  the  vellum  leaves  have  been 
cut  (evidently  ages  nnce)  from  the  legiatei,  and 
about  the  same  period  the  transcripts  «t  Cheater 
appear  very  much  obliterated  by  other  means  than 
damp  or  vermin.  .  It  may  be  by  accident,  bat  » 
stoij  of  generations  hangs  to  facta — relstiiig  to 
the  loss  of  a  manor  in  toe  neighbourhood,  and 
which  adds  considerable  intetsst  to  thie  register 
question — romantic  and  antiquarian. 

I  should  also  feel  exceedingly  obliged  to  any 
correspondent  wbo  could  inform  me  of  the  title- 
page  and  date  of  a  book  written,  I  believe,  the 
last  or  beginning  of  thia  century  by  a  Mr.  Tarboek 
on  "  Carpentry."  I  believe  such  a  book  was 
catalogued  for  sale  within  this  last  quarter. 

T.  HZLSBT. 
BlflJIABCK   ANnCIPATED:  "  StBWINO  IF  THKIB 

owH  Qbavt"  (4*^  S.  vu.  187,  272,  S79.>_Your 
correspondent  J,  A.  C.  (p.  272)  is  right  in  his 
conjecture  that  this  saying  (in  dilferent  forma) 
will  be  found  in  "the  domains  of  heathendom." 
If  he  will  turn  to  Plautus's  play  of  The  Captiot* 
he  vrill  find  in  the  first  act  the  parasite  Er^silua 
lamenting  to  himself  the  miserable  state  of  tbKt 
class  of  men  when  their  entertainers  are  gone  to 
the  country,  and  parasites  have  no  dinner  to  oat, 
compering  them  to  snaila  shut  up  in  theii  shells, 
Ac.     He  says : — 


DigiiizedbyCjOOy  IC 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


523 


D  ocealta  latent, 


iaUti 


in  ocenllo,  miscri ., 

Dum  rnri  nimit  hominea  qao9  lignrriint." 

Act  I.  ver.  80  to  84,  ed.  TeaboOT, 

Aa  PlautuB  is  tbe  most  iincieiit  Latia  author 
extuit,  bftviDg  lived  above  SOOO  years  ago,  udIcbs 
the  ides  be  found  also  in  some  qioie  ancient 
Greek  author  or  in  the  Old  Testament,  we  ma^, 
I  presume,  crauddei  bim  the  source  iioia  which  it 
originated ;  at  least  as  the  first  author  in  whom 
the  idea  is  found,  though  he  ma;  have  taken  it 
from  the  Greek  Anaxanondes. 

Tt  does  not  necessarily  follow  that  an  idea 
found  in  a  auccaasion  of  aBthors  baa  been  adopted 
by  the  later  from  the  earlier ;  and  this  one  may 
have  been  as  original  with  Bismarck  as  'mth  tbe 
first  that  used  it'. 

Would  it  not  he  well  to  record  in  "  N.  &Q."  o 
what  occasion  the  great  statesman  employed  it  f 

RlCHABD  UABBmaTOR. 

Chudrki's  Games  (4*  S.  vii.  J41,  271,  416.J 
The  following  version  of  the  Bah;flon  (?)  rhyme, 
appurtenant  to  a  girl'a  play,  was  picked  up  many 
years  ago  In  Chorlton-upon-Medlock,  Manches- 
ter.— 
"  Qutry.  '  How  ininr  mild  to  BarBlem  ! ' 
"Am.  '  TbrcB  aeon  Ml'  lea,' 
"Quay,  '  Can  I  get  there  hj  candlelight  ? ' 
"Aia.  ■Yes,Endb«ck  «g^n.' 
"  Open  tbe  intas  la  vide  u  yon  can. 
And  let  King  Charles  and  nta  family  thToogb." 
See  also  Harwell's  Norury  BAyine»,  No.  328. 
fialliwell  also  includes  a  stanza  of  the  "Green 
tiravel ".  song  or  nominv  among  his  relics  (No. 
€61),  hut  the  following  Gorton  venrion,  as  played 
by  the  schaol-girla  thirty-five  years  ago,  is  the 
moat  completa  we  have  seen : — 
"  Oieen  {(lavel,  green  gravel,  the  gnus  is  eo  green. 
Tbe  ftimt  Toang  dunael  that  ever  nai  seen. 
*0  Mary,'  'Q  Mary  your  true  love  is  dead  1 
He  seat  yoo  ■  letter  to  turn  roond  vonr  head." 
'  0  motber.  U  mother,  do  you  tbink  it  is  true  7 ' 
'  O  v«a,  O  jeg,  and  irhat  aball  I  do ! 
Ill  wath  yoD  In  milk,  and  dress  yon  in  fdlk. 
An'  write  down  you  name  with  a  gold  ptn  and  ink.* " 

JOHH  HiaBOK. 
Lees,  Dsu  Oldbtm. 

"Thb  WiHD  HAS  A  Lasghaoe,"  btc.  (4*  S, 
vii.  865,  463.)— This  poem  is  to  be  found  in 
Hom'i  Everyday  SwA  (1830,  p.  1286).  From  the 
sentimental  melancholy  of  uie  manner  I  should 
imagine  it  was  written  byL.  E.  L.  or  some  clever 
imitator  of  that  pottfeM  (in  spite  of  all  the  strong- 
minded  spinstarBj  I  hold  to  this  useful  wold). 
The  verses  are  signed  " Imraivisatrice."  XL. 
misquotes  the  third  line.  He  should  delete  tbe 
"  And."  Walibb  Thobbbtot. 

Dorking. 


COOKES:  COOMSBT:COOKB(4*S. vii.  11,310.) 
I  am  afraid  tbe  book  to  which  Sf.  has  referred  your 
correspondent  will  eflbrd  him  but  little  informa- 
tion. It  is  stated  in  p.  17  that  Thomas  Archer 
''  married  Agnes,  daughter  of  Sir  Walter  Coke  of 
Cokesej,  in  the  county  of  Worcester,  and  grand- 
daughter of  Hugh  Cokesey  " ;  hut  Coke  should 
be  Cokesey.  There  are  numerous errors'of  alike 
descriptioQ  in  the  book:  "Hatfield,  co.  Herts," 
should  be  "  Ha(field,  co.  Hereford  " ;  "  Bancroft " 
should  be  "  B«arcToft,"  &c 

Tour  correspondent  will  find  a  carefully  com- 
piled pedigree  of  Cooksey  of  Cooksey  in  a  recent 
numh^  of  tbe  Mtrald  and  Oenealogitt " ;  but  I 
feel  sure  that  any  attempt  to  graft  the  Gook€s 
fiunily  upon  that  stock  ^U  be  a  signal  fiulure. 
H.  S.  G. 
Ahothbe  Old  Jeitkiiis  (4'"  S.  vii.  320.) — I 
have  waited  to  see  whether  some  one  with  more 
information  than  I  have  would  say  something 
about  John  Jenkins  of  Coddington.  I  write  now 
to  assure  A.  0.  that  no  "  hoax  lias  been  played  off 
upon  the  Worcester  Jourtud,"  and  in  the  hope  that 
further  details  may  be  sent  to  "  N.  &  Q."  by  some 
one  else.  It  is  believed  in  the  neighbourhood 
that  John  Jenkins  did  reach  the  age  specified. 
He  had  been  well  known  as  approachuig  the  age, 
and  had  attracted  attention  by  his  protracted  life. 
A  daughter  of  bis  is  living^  and  is  said  to  be 
eighty-five.  But  the  foUowmg  statement,  if  it 
can  be  confirmed,  wiU  go  very  far  to  settie  the 
question  of  Jenkins's  age.  In  or  ahont  1770  a  new 
bell  was  hung  in  the  tower  of  Colwall  chorcb,  a 
place  adjoining  to  Coddinaton,  both  being  on  the 
Hereforoshire  side  of  the  Ualveni  Hills.  Jenkins 
constantly  affirmed  that  h«  was  put  into  this  belt 
at  the  time  of  its  being  hung  in  the  tower.  Modem 
bells  are  usually  dated.  Is  any  bell  in  Colwall 
dated  about  1770  P  I  hope  tbe  subject  will  not  be 
allowed  to  drop  without  further  inquiry.  D.  P. 
Stnarta  Lodge,  Halrem  Wells. 

Fbahcis:  JciriuB  AND  THB  Sbals  (4*  8.  vii. 

S2.) — F.  M.,  who  is  looking  into  the  curious 
question  of  the  seals  used  by  Junius,  may  be  glad 
to  be  referred  to  a  passage  in  which  that  writer 
speaks  of  the  care  wbicli  an  anonymous  writCT 
would  observe  with  respect  to  tbe  seals  he  used. 
It  is  in  the  PrkaU  Letten  to  Woodfall,  No.  10 
(Bohn'a  edition,  ii.  23) ;  — 

"  I  afaall  be  glad  to  see  the  packet  yon  ipeak  of.  It 
eanaot  come  from  tbe  Cavendigliee,  tbongh  there  be  no 
_j-,  .i_      ™™ .J  ji^  bo  «o  rilly  as  to  put  their 


F.J. 


■  It  la  stated  on  p.  10  Hist  In  Conghton  church  are 
eight  shielda  of  ThTockmortoa  "on  their  rich  monn- 
msot,"  In  an  of  which  are  quartered  tba  anni  of  Aidwr. 
lUa  la  an  error.  Hie  thiM  urows  in  than  shields  are 
therms  of  Bntm.  <       '  ^  '  -< 


abjl^C 


cx)i^le 


92i 


AUXJSS  AaU  K^UJE 


Ou»iv  ox  TSB  SuBSua  OmnnKeHAJC  (4*^  S. 
iii.,  iv.,  patdm;  tu.  321,  347.)  ■—  I  am  mBch 
obihred  bj  Espidasb's  correction  of  my  Mtding 
in  Uis  Bitmct  &om  Dundooald  Kirk-SeauoD  w- 
oovds.  Not  having  made  up  mj  mind  as  to  which 
is  the  oonect  theo^  of  the  origin  of  this  some,  I 
hod  BO  intention  of  reopening  a  diacusuon  alraHdy 
guffioiestly  protracted,  much  leas  did  I  neon  to 
moke  the  extraordinary  anppodtions  so  oleariy 
shown  by  EsPEDABa  to  be  uutenabla.  I  wiahad 
merelv  to  give  what  «aemed  to  me  a  sew  fact, 
vii.,  toe  ooourrenoe  of  the  word  oonyttgam,  where 
it  could  only  ngnify  "  a  plaoe  nhsra  rabhita 
abonsd."  Perhws  I  was  a  littla  too  cieduloua  in 
believing  I  had  fonnd  a  new  wotd :  for  on  a^ain 
referring  to  the  MS.,  with  the  additional  bght 
afforded  by  Espbdabb,  it  appeare  I  should  have 
quoted  "  in  corahiea  coayngaa '' — either  that  or 
conyngair.  Aa  however  the  former  of  these  words 
is  unknown  hitherto,  it  is  inoie  likely  that  EsFX- 
hasie  ia  right,  and  that  I  should  have  written 
coiij/ngair.  As  to  the  earlier  forms  of  the  name, 
to  which  EsFBDABX  Idndly  directs  me,  although  I 
admit  that  be  is  here  on  the  right  track,  I  need 
scarcely  point  out  how  little  aatiBfaction  can  be 
derived  from  such  different  forma  as  Cartotuui  and 
Xnamenuigutn,  given  by  writers  so  nearly  contem- 

EDrsry  aa  Talieun  and  Bede.  Boes  Espedabe 
□ow  that  the  chapel  of  Corsbie  was  used  for 
divine  Bervice  long  aEter  Uie  Seformation  P 

W.  F.  (2). 
"Thb  THTOMEBBa"  (4*^  3.  vii.  466.)~Iii  ooa 
of  the  leading  articles  of  The  Timtt,  the  wiiter 
said,  "  We  uundered  out,"  &c.,  referring  to  a 
fpnuer  article.  Hence  the  appellation  of  "  The 
Thunderer  "  was  ^tpiied  to  the  paper.  The  writer 
of  the  artiole  may  have  been  Capt.  Sterling ;  of 
that  I  know  nothing,  nor  can  I  recollect  it«  sub- 
ject. D. 

HoOAK  {4'>  a.  vii.  430,  481.)  — Bwley  Bays 
hogaa-mogim  ia  a  corruption  of  hough-magttlige, 
high  and  mighty,  Btlg.  Suppoung  the  word  to 
have  the  double  sense  of  o&tii,  we  BQould  get  the 
"  de^  drinking,"  an  every-day  expression.  There 
is  an  old  Greek  word,  'DrH'  =  'nina«ii,  which,  but 
for  the  toft  instead  of  the  rougi  breathing,  might 
suggest  a  derivation.  Could  the  first  use  of  the 
word,  however,  b«  traced  to  Warwickshire,  this 


difficulty  misht  be  surmounted.    Every  one  has 

J — 1.: — .t Ldrj." 

EDitnxD  Tsw,  M.A. 


heard  ot  "  dnuking  the  sea  dn' 


Rbt,  R.  0.  MArtTKis  OP  "  Babbel-oroait 
Famb"  (4"  S.  vii.  464.)  — The  allusion  of  The 
Athaugum,  in  speaking  of  this  gentleman  as  of 
"  barrel-organ    fame,"  is  to  a  stanza  in  some 

Xrtive  verses  of  Dr.  Ua^rinn  on  Lord  Byron's 
*  Jtiaa ;  thev  are  eotitl^  "  Don  Juan  Unvead," 
and  are  a  parody  on  Wordsworth's  "  Yarrow  Uo- 


"  Let  Colbnm's  lom-^rad  ctCLlo  sen? 

Tbe  sweets  of  Lad7  Margin ; 

Let  Hstarin  to  tnuiraaa  them«t 

Attoo*  his  barnl-«Tgui ; 
We  wiU  not  hear  th«m,  will  not  read 

The  parson  or  the  gnnay; 

And,  I  dure  uy,  as  bed  u  thn-, 

Or  worae,  is  Don  Giovanni. 

The  whole  [dece  may  be  seen  in  Sfurray'a  aeven- 

teeu-volume  editjon  of  Byron,  voL  zv.  p.  39. 

J.  aw. 

Hss.  JKabt  Ohubohill  (4"'  S.  vii.  S3\  417.) 
I  have  reoaiTed  from  a  lenmed  friend  a  oonfirm*- 


Mbloombi  respecting  this  laay.     

daughter  of  Mrs.  Margaret  Alba,  whose  monu- 
ment at  Glsnville's  Wootton  is  surmounted  by  the 
following  coats  of  arms:  "A  chevron  between 
three  leopards'  heads  erased,  impaling  in  a  boodoie 
lionoela  rampant  3,  2,  and  1,"  which  may  pro- 


husband  John  Churchill,  if  her  son-in-law,  Sir 
Winston  Churchill,  will  give  permission ;  bnt  if 
not,  then  near  her  mother,  Mrs.  Margaret  Allen. 
She  was,  therefore,  undoubtedly  the  second  wife 
of  John  Churchill,  grandfather  of  the  great  Duke 
of  Marlborough. 

My  friend  adds— and  I  know  of  nobody  sure 
experienced  in  such  matters — that  the  pedigrees 
of  the  duke  are  the  most  mendacious  he  has  ever 
met  with,  being  all  apparently  taken  froin  one 
drawn  up  for  himself  by  the  heralds. 

Any  light  that  can  be  thrown  upon  the  snbjoct 

by  your  useful  pages  would  be  very  acceptable 

for  the  next  part  oftbe  new  edition  of  HutcWa 

0.  W.  BuaauL 

John  Dybr  (4"-  S.  vU.  232,  353, 443.)^rAxnSE 
surely  does  not  suppose  that  Dyer,  a  learned 
clerg^msn,  was  i^orant  of  the  English  language 
and  its  grammatical  construction  I  Had  "lies'' 
been  used  it  must  have  rhymed  with  "eyes,"  and 
the  poet  would  have  found  a  uhiiant  terminatioa 
to  each  line.  To  avoid  this  his  nvmph  has  tmt 
eyt,  and  we  have  a  very  excusable  nit  of  bad 
grammar.  Jaydee  is  acquainted  with  Shake- 
speare.  Tina  be  ever  examined  the  first  veres  of 
"  Hark,  the  lark  "  P  or  if  he  patronises  Pope,  what 
is  his  omnion  of  the  grammar  in  the  verse  "  Thon 
Great  first-cause,"  &c  P  Any  ornithologist  can 
infonn  Jatdbb  that  there  are  different  sorts  of 
litmeli.  Amongst  them  is  the  great  linnet,*  which 
probably  is  what  Drer  meant,  or  he  might  moan 
the  bird  known  as  ttte  "yeilmo  ^rowring,'  which,  I 
believe,  is  one  of  the  linnet  tribe.  If  Dyer  has 
erred  in  bis  ornithology,  which  I  do  not  admit,  or 
if  he  has  committed  a  grammatical  or-~-  —».;.*.  » 


*  1  Ihlak  that 


it  hat,*  green  linaat. 


**8.TIL  Jin(*17,  71.] 


KOTES  ANP  QUERIES. 


m 


do  ■dmit,  I  uaert  tluit  sqob  blemiahaa  do  not  de- 

tnct  ttom  Ilia  merita  as  »  poet    What  dow  Jat- 

Ns  think  (tf  the  <<  thsN  let  bim  %"  of  B711011 P 

SnPHsn  J&cKSoR. 


QoBSX  (l*  S.  Tii.  833,  870,  487.)— The  eve  of 
Ma;  DaT  was  fonnerly  koown  as  "  Mischief 
Nigtit "  tiiToughoat  South  Lancashiie,  and  prior 


the  strange  pranks,  rude  practical  jokea,  and  mor- 
tifying depiedatioDs  eommitted.  But  there  was 
also  another  custom,  certainlj  in  some  respects 
more  poeticiJ,  but  liable  to  be  mode  equalfj  as 
annoying.  Thia  ww  the  depositiiig  on  the  thres- 
hold, or  afliiing  to  the  door-handle,  sprigs  or 
loaQches  of  certain  shrubs  and  trees,  as  emble- 
matical of  the  tnuta  of  character  of  some  damsels 
tfawe  rending.  As  might  be  expected,  early  ou 
May  mocning  the  young  women  would  arise  not 
onlj  to  lave  their  blnomiug  faces  in  "  May  dew," 
ana  ao  beanlify  themselTes  for  twelve  months  to 
oome,  but  also  to  ascertain  what  compliments 
their  suitors  had'  paid  them.  But  alas,  it  often 
happened  that  some  mischievous  lad  or  rival  fe- 
male hod  "  laid  something  at  their  door  "  not 
pleasant  to  moralise  upon.  The  popular  reading 
of  these  vemsl  symbols  bore  no  relationship  to 
any  fanded  resemblance  between  them  and  the 
peraonal  characteristics  of  the  persons  honoured, 
Dnt  were  formed  out  of  an  attempt  to  thyme.  The 
following  are  the  chief: — 

Sprig  of  quickeu  (01  wicken)-iny  dear  (or 
sweet)  chicken. 
Sprig  of  ook^fond  of  a  joke. 

„        owler  (i.  e.  alder)  -  a  scowler  (scolder). 

„        ash  —  a  swearer  rash, 

„        nnt  (hazel)  <°  a  slut 

„         thorn  "  scorn, 

„        bramble  » likes  to  ramble. 

„        holly  "  great  folly. 

„        gone  in  full  bloom  "  a  w —  at  noon. 
JoHH  Hieson. 
Lms,  near  Oldhtm. 

Thb  DocmtnTB  or  CutTiotSH  (4**  S.  vii.  349.) — 
Tour  correspondent  Bilbo  sajs,  "the  doctrine  of 
Celtidam  seems  to  me  a  species  of  popular  delu- 
rion."  In  Scotland  we  hold  Celticism  to  be  a 
great  fact.  It  is  established  by  a  variety  of  proofb 
that  need  not  be  entered  into  here.  Nay,  more, 
there  ia  reason  to  think  that  there  is  a  mnch 
greater  amount  of  Celtic  blood  among  English- 
men than  ia  commonly  supposed.  But  my  chief 
object  here  is  to  refer  to  tne  popular  notion  that 
the  fair  or  blond  race,  in  the  British  Isles,  denotes 
only  a  Teutonic  ancestry,  and  that  the  dork  races 


ore  the  Oelts.  This  is  not  n^ported  by  ^QdmIo- 
gicftl  authorities. 

Nott  and  Gliddon,  in  ^t^  of  Maikind,  after 
an  analyma  of  the  works  of  Thierry  and  Edward^ 
conclnde  that  — 

■■  Ancient  Gsnl  was  occniried.  aame  1600  7e«n  b.o,  by 
at  least  (vo  diatinctlj  marked  CsnEadao  races— the  Celts 
and  the  Iberiaaa :  the  one  fidi-ikinned  aod  ligbt-bslred, 
and  the  other  ■  dark  race." 

Bodichon,  in  his  AudeM  >ur  f  ^^^pA-w,  placea  the 
Calta  (whom  he  divides  into  Ooelio,  Belgio,  and 
Cymbnc)  in  his  great  division  entitled  "  The  Blond 
lUce."  Professor  Huxley,  in  his  lecture  at  St. 
George's  Hall  (March,  1870),  ooinudea  witli  the 
above  statements,  and  emphaticaUy  saya-;- 

"TallitatnrtiiUrbair,  Bndblaeeyai,iaa  native  of  Bri- 
tain, are  na  evidence  of  hia  descent  rstber  from  tbe  pii- 
mary  Celtic- speaking,  than  from  the  immigisnt  Tentonic- 
apeakine  element  of  oar  popntation,  or  tbe  reverie.  He 
ie  u  liltcly  to  be  a  Celt  u  a  Teatoa;  a  Tentoo  s*  a 
Celt"— Report  in  JPaU  Mall  GaxttU. 

Whence,  then,  the  dark  races  in  the  British 
Isles  P  There,  as  in  other  parts  of  the  West  of 
Europe,  they  are  descendants  of  the  Iberians,  who 
seem  to  have  been  spread  over  Europe  before  the 
arrival  of  the  Celts.  Al&ed  Maury,  late  librarian 
to  the  French  Institute,  says :  — 

"  The»  Iberiaiia — a  Dsllon  lively  and  ImpresBlooablf, 
vain  and  atirriDg—maj  well  have  infuMd  into  tbe  Keltic 
blood  that  elsment  of  rMlesancu  and  levity  which  one 
percdves  in  the  Ganls,  bnt  which  ia  alien,  on  the  con- 
trary, to  the  true  Kelt." 

Professor  Husley  adopts  the  same  view  as  to 
our  dark  races,  that  they  ore  of  Iberian  descent; 
referring,  as  authoritiaa,  to  Thumam  and  Be 
Beltoguet  ^ 

I  must  add,  for  the  information  of  Bilbo  and 
your  English  readers,  that  in  Scotland,  without 


.. .  gentlemen  who  have  done  good  service  in  Scot- 
tish history  and  antlquitiee,  and  whose  views  on 
these  subjects  are  entitled  to  respectful  considera- 
tion. H.R. 

"  Thibit  Dat9  oath  Sbftembbb  "  (4""  8.  vii. 
866,  464.)— Your  correspondent  J.  P.,  who  refers 
for  an  early  example  of  these  "  memorial  lines  " 
to  my  edition  of  Chaucer's  Tretdiie  on  the  Attro- 
labe,  and  who  seems  to  regret  that  the  extract 
&om  Stevins's  MS.  should  have  been  confined  to 
the  one  line  quoted,  may  be  pleased  to  have  a 
transcript  of  all  four  lines,  as  follows;-^ 
"  Thirtie  daies  bath  September, 
Aprill,  Jnne,  and  Koiember ; 
Febrnarie  twenCie  and  eight  alone, 
And  all  the  rest  have  thirtie  and  one." 
This  exoniple  is  certainly  not  later  in  date  than 
15S5,  and  may  be  a  year  or  two  earlier. 


^■€?5«gle 


mostei  wiota  in  mj  ^mnAuch  -when  I  leftschoM 
ia  OermEuij  (1821)  :— 

"  Leiw  jetit  wte  wenu  du  allrbst 
WUoscheD  witst  getsbt  zu  habsD." 

P.A.L. 

U&BT  QvEEN  OF  Scois'  lUPSiaOHURinB  (4"  S. 
vU.  461.)— Does  De-Gattt  mean  that  Mwr  Stuart 
waa  never  in  charge  of  Elizabeth  Shrewebuiy  at 
Hardwicke  Hall ;  and  that  the  chamber,  bed,  and 
airas  shown  there  are  all  a  mjth  as  far  as  Marie 
Stuart  is  concerned  P  W.  D. 

"Comes  to  Gbief  "  (4"  S.  vii.  429,-1  fancy 
that  it  ia  quito  within  my  own  memor;  that  this 
slang  phrase  has  obtained  currency.  I  have  al- 
ways regarded  it  as  an  adaptation  of  those  moat 
solemn  words  in  Isfuab  liii.  10, "  He  hath  put  him 
to  grief" ;  and  bare  oacliewed  and  repiooated  it 
accordingly. 

It  ie  certainly  not  twenty  years  ago,  that  I 
remember  a  friend  of  mine — and  by  no  means  a 
strait-laced  one — who  expressed  to  me  his  horror 
at  hearing!  it  at  a  biahop'a  table  from  the  lips  of 
one  of  his  daughters.  C.  W.  B. 

PuaiTAif  CHAJTSEa  OF  Nahes  (4*  S.  vii.  430.) 
Were  my  memory  better,  I  am  sure  I  could  giTe 
other  quotations.  The  following  is  &om  the  Irat 
act  of  Jonson's  Bartholomew  Fair : — 

"  Jota,  He  -was  a  biifaer,  gir,  bnt  he  doea  dream  now, 
and  aee  lislont ;  he  ban  given  aver  hia  trade. 

Qur.  .  .  .  hi«  ChmCen-name  UZeal-of-the'luid. 

Jahtt.  Tea,  sir.  Zeal-of-the-lisd  Busy. 

fFuv.  How  I  wbat  ■  aamo's  thia  ? 

JohH.  Oh,  the7  have  all  aach  namea,  air ;  he  wm  wit- 
nms  Tit  Win  herafthey  irill  .not  b«  called  god-fathen), 
tiA  named  her  Wia-the-GKhC ;  you  thougbc  ber  dudb 
bad  been  Winnifnd,  did  tdu  not  ? 

WouB.  I  did  indeed. 


Some  years  ago  the  name  td  ta  omnibus  pro- 
prietor in  Sheliield  was  pointed  out  to  me  as  being 
the  contxact«d  unification  of  one  of  these  Puritan 
names,  but  what  the  contraction  is,  or  wbat  the 
original  name  was,  I  now  forget  B.  N, 

"  DBm  ":  AH  EvKKOio  Pabti  (4*  S.  tIL  453.) 
I  presume  the  origin  of  the  term  "  drum,"  as 
applied  to  an  evening  party,  is  merely  &om  the 
circumstance  of  the  company  being-  assembled  or 
drummed  together,  as  soldiers  are  oy  the  military 
instrument  of  music  in  question.  In  reference, 
however,  to  tbis  particular  application  of  the  word 
"drum,"  the  following  quotation  from  Fielding's 
Tom  Jonet  may  not  be  without  interest.  It  seems 
to  show  that  at  the  period  when  that  work  was 
first  pablished  (1749)  the  phrase  was  of  recent 
introdnctiDn  in  England,  and  not  much  known 
beyond  the  bounds  of  London : — 


Hatchet's  drum.  .  ,  .  Having  in  this  chapter  twice 
mentioned  a  '  dram,' — a  word  which  our  potteiitj,  il  'a 
hoped,  will  not  aDderatand .in  the  sense  it  is  here  ai^el— 
weaball,  DOtwithManding  our  present  haste.  itopiBU- 
meat  to  describe  the  entertainment,  and  the  rather,  as  m 

"  A  dmm,  then,  ia  an  asaembty  of  wd^dresMd  penoai 
of  both  eexes,  most  of  whom  play  at  cacda,  and  the  laM 
do  nothing  at  all ;  while  the  mistrew  of  tlie  houn  pa- 
forma  the  part  of  the  landlady  at  an  inn,  and  like  Ih 
landlady  of  an  inn,  prides  herwlf  ok  the  namber  of  ka 
gnetU,  tbou^  aha  doth  not  always,  like  her,  get  uy- 
thing  by  it. 

"No  wonder,  then,  m  so  much  spirits  most  beratunl 
to  anpportany  vivacity  in  thoaeioenea  of  diilaeas,tliat« 
hear  peraans  of  faahion  eternally  complaining  of  Ibe  ■ml 
of  them,  a  complaintconGned  entirel7l4i  upper  life.  Ho* 
inaupportahle  most  we  Imagine  this  round  ofimpertiDHia 
to  have  been  to  Sophia  at  thia  time  I  " — To»  Jetit,  1)«* 

We  have  improved  somewhat,  I  doubt  not,  mx 
the  days  of  Fielding,  but  a  cynic  might  eTto 
now  find  some  points  of  resemblance  between  the 
fashionable  entertainments  of  the  present  liiii« 
and  those  of  our  ancestors  as  described  above,  I 
think  the  term  keUUdmm  is  now  the  one  more  u 
vogue  than  dmm,  but  Fielding's  anticipatiou  ht-' 
acMcelj  been  realised.  D.  B. 

Compare  Dutch  drotn,  "crowd";  dnmand 
wmmw/m,  "  to  crowd  together."  A  crowded 
party,  a  rout  A.  E 

KumsMATio  (4"-  S.  vii.  473.)— The  followisg 
notes  on  the  numismatics  of  the  French  Bepabuc 
of  1870-71  may  be  worth  inserting  in  addition 
to  the  communication  of  P.  A.  L.  on  "I*  K^ 
publique." 

A  bronze  ten-«entimes  piece  is  swd  to  h»T« 
been  struck,  bearing — obverse,  a  balloon  withn^ 
flags  and  rig^g :  "  lUpuhlique  Franfaiae."  St- 
verse,  "1870"  in  the  centre,  with  the  l*«w» 
"Gouvemement  de  la  IMfenso  Nationale." 

Also,  in  the  lUuitrated  London  Stm  ff 
March  11,  1871,  is  engraved  a  small  gilt  medu 
commemorating  the  meeting  of  the  Frencb  K*- 
tional  Assembly  at  Bordeaux.  On  the  obven* 
are  the  arms  of  the  city,  crowned  with  amnw 
crown,  and  surrounded  by  a  vrreath  of  lawe' *|"' 
oak.  Above  is  the  inscription  "  Assambl*  ^*- 
tionale  i.  Bordeaux,  12  f^vrier  1871j;  B««i»b,  , 
the  following  words  in  four  lines :  "  ElectioM  0"  | 
8ffivrierl87I."  ,.        | 

I  have  not  yet  been  succea^ul  in  obtaiauS  ^       \ 
originals  of  these  pieces,  and  therefore  I  wnj^ 
guarantee  the  entire  accuracy  of  the  above  ae- 
Scriptions.  HMfBi  W.  HiWffn. 

15,  Eatra  Place,  Brighton. 

Walpom's  NAiL-BRDBa  (4'"  S.  ni-  4^*^ 
take  it  that   Major  Dales'    meaning,  f"''™"' 


.  iHtoig^ 


«*S.VIL  JiniKl7,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


527 


figuratiTely  expicaeed,  was  that  Walpole  hod  not 
kept  bia  nands  clean  in  office,  which  undoabtedlj 
he  had  noL  It  was,  at  the  dme  nheo  Walpole 
-waa  expelled,  a  reij  nre  thing  for  a  man  in  (Mee 
to  do  so. 

I  have  not  aeen  Major  Dales'  woik,  and  do 
not  know  whether  the  name  and  rank  are,  oi 
whether  either  is,  assumed;  but  Major  Dalea  wrote 
in  160d,  and  I  have  very  conmdenble  doubts 
whether  nail-bniahes  weie  in  use  in  1713.  I 
think  that  was  the  date  of  the  expuluon,  not 
1710.  lAum  KNOWI.KB. 

Lutcolkshire  ;  Dbhtkino  Soira  {4"'  S.  vii. 
454.)— I  think  that  K.  P.  D.  E.  is  mistaken  in 
BuppoeiDg  the  lines  he  quotes  to  have  been  pact  of 
a  arinkiiiR-Bong.  I  remember  a  similar  verse  in 
vogue,  as  ne  says,  at  the  begioniDg  of  the  present 
centnry.  But  it  was  meroly  a  angle  verse  which 
used  to  be  tncked  on,  ratner  profanely,  to  the 
national    anthem,   "  Ood  save  the   King,''  and 

J  rayed  gifts  for  his  majesty,  which  I  always 
eard  thus  particularised : — 

"Seed  him  rout  beef  initore  : 
When  thu't  gone  aend  him  more, 
And  the  key  of  the  cellar  door. 

God  Mve  the  king." 

F.  C.  H. 

Shebbwort  (4"-  S.  vii.  35,  161,  244,  332,  463.) 
The  plaot  I  mentioned  as  bearing  this  name  is 
certainly  not  the  Cardamine  htrsuta,  nor  any  other 
Cardamine.  This  plant  I  knew  before  I  was  five 
years  old.  What  I  described  is  the  Arabii,  but  I 
did  not  cftll  it  ItaUana .-  it  is  what  Withering  calls 
*'  Turkey-pod  "  and  "  wall-creea."  My  authbri^ 
for  calling  it  aheerwort  was  an  old  but  very  inleU 
ligent  native  of  Dorsetshire,  who  recogniaed  the 
specimen  1  showed  him  aa  common  in  that  coun^, 
imd  eaten  aa  a  salad  In  the  cypsiea.  I  will  send 
Mb.  Brittxn  a  slip  o£^  the  jJant  now  in  blossom 
in  my  garden.  F.  C.  H. 

What  ib  a  Barkow  P  (4*  S.  vii.  474.)  —  The 
meaning  of  the  barrow  on  the  corporate  seal  of 
the  town  of  Droitwich  ia  exactly  expldued  in  the 

following  quotation  from  Eennett  MS.  Lansd. 
1033,  given  in  Halliwell's  Diet.  Arch.  Word*:— 

"  At  Nantwich  and  Droitwich  the  conical   buketa 

vrherria  they  pat  the  (alt  to  let  the  wBt«r  drain  fnim  it 

an  Eilled  bitrows.  A  barrow  contained  iboat  six  pecks." 

JOHM  PlGflOT,  iVJI. 


iHUcelUnfiru*. 
ROTES  on  BOOKS.  ETC. 

Shakttpmr^i  Em^uim.    By  William  Lowes  RaihtoD, 
of  Graj'a  Inn,  Barrlatcr^at-Law.  &ij,    (Longmana.) 
Ur.  Boahton  faae  alretd;  paUiihed  man  v  Small  Books 

on  a  Great  Subject— Shakespeare ;  but  among  them  not 


one  more  amoBing  or  Instmetive  than  the  pnaeot,  in 
which  he  sppliee  Lvlj'a  well-known  work  to  the  illnatra- 
liOQ  of  the  Great  Maat«r.  The  Enphtiit  waa  pabliahed 
before  Bbakeapeare  htgtn  Ui  vrite  for  the  atage;  and,  aa 
It  haa  been  tald  "  that  all  the  ladies  of  the  time  were 
Lylf'a  schotan,  she  who  apoke  not  Euphnism  bdng  as 
little  regarded  at  coart  aa  if  ahe  could  not  apeak  French," 
it  ia  reaaonable  to  beliBTa  that  Lyly  could  not  have  been 
withoat  bis  inflaence  on  Shakespeare;  and  the  object  of  the 
present  volume  is  to  show  that  the  origin  of  nvany  of  hli 
famona  paeaagea  are  to  be  found  in  the  Euphutt,  uid  that 
Shakes[nare  and  L7IJ  have  often  the  aame  thoughta,  oae 
the  same  language  and  phraaea,  and  [day  upon  the  same 

BUtoryofEKgliih  FoaryfnmAt  Ta^Jth  to  Uie  Cloiti)/ 

Oe   Sixitentk    Cmtury.     By  Thomaa   Wartoo,  D.D., 

fellow  of  Tiin.  Coll.  Oxford,  Prolessor  of  Poetrv  in  the 

University  of  Oxford.      With  a  Ptifact  by  kichard 

Price,  and  Sota    FaHbrwn.      Ediud  by  W.   Carew 

Hailitt.      WiO,  wtw  Sota  amd  other  AddiHont  by  &a 

Frederick  Madden,    K.H.,   F-HS-j  Thonua  WnRht. 

M.A,  F.S.A.i  W.Aldia  Wright,  MA.;  Rev.  Walter 

W.  Skeat,  MA. ;  Biehard  Morris.  LL.D. ;  F.  J.  Fnmi- 

val.  M.A.,  and  the  Editor.     With  Indtxei  of  Noma 

out  Placti.    In  Four  VoltBUf.     (Reeves  &  Tnrner.) 

In  much  the  same  spirit  in  which  Falalaff  declared  of  . 

tumaeir,  "1  am  not  only  witty  in  myself,  bnt  the  causa 

that  wit  ia  In  other  men,"  the  Oxford  Professor  of  Poetry 

might  claim  the  credit  of  being  not  only  learned  hinui^ 

but  tbe  means  of  calling  forth  the  lestning  of  others ; 

for  Warton'a  invaluable  Eiitory  of  Engiiih  Fottry  has 

assaredl;  been  the  means  of  drawing  forth  mncb  curious 

lllnatntlon  of  the  subject  from  other  scholan,  which  bnt 

for  it  might  otherwise  never  have  been    given  to  tlie 

world.    The  flist  edition  of  Warton'a  celebrated  woric 

appeared  at  intervals  between  1774  and  1781;  and  when 

it  waa  reprinted  in  1824  under  tbe  editorship  of  that 

accomplianed  achoiar  Mr.  Richard  Price,  the  value  of  his 

work  was  greatly  eubaiiced  by  the  liberal  use  made  by  him 

of  the  illustrations  of  Joseph  Ritson,   Dr.  Ashbee,  Mr. 

PsA,  that  ripe  and  rare  acbolsr  Francis  Douoe,  and  other 

eminent  antiquaries.     Sixteen  years  served  to  exhaust 

Mr.  Price's  edition,  and  in  1810  it  was  reproduced  under 

the  auperintendence  of   the  printer,    the    late   Richard 

Taylor,  a  man  of  no  ordinary  ieaming.    This  edition  in 

like  manner  received  a  large  scceaaion  of  valuable  notes 

tVom   Sir  Frederick  Hodden,    tbe  lata  John    Mitchell 

Kemble,  the  Rev.  R.  Gornett  of  the  British  Muaeam. 

Mr.  Thomas  Wright,  and  other  eludeuts  of  our  early 

htersturs.    The  present  edition  presents  the  aame  claims 

to  public  favour.      Mr.   Hailitt'a  own  laboun  upon  it 

sre  supplemented  by  many  of  the  best  echoisis  and  pbi- 

lolc^ists  of  tbe  present  day;  Sir  Frederick  Msddcn  braigs 

bia  varied  stores  of  learning  to  bear  on  the  iilnstrstion 

and  correction  of  Warton.    So  does  Mr.  Thomas  Wright, 

who  contributes  a  Dissertation  on  the  "  Romance  of  tbe 

Seven  Ssgea  "  ;  the  Rev.  Walter  W.  Skeat— than  whom 

no  one  is  ao  competent— has  revised  and  partly  rewritten 

Warton'a  sccount  of  Piera  Ploughman;  whilst  Mr.  Aldia 

Wright,  Dr.  Richard  Morria,  Mr.  Fumivall,  and  many 

other  gentlemen  have  laboured  zealously  in  their  several 

apedri  departments  to  promote  Mr.  Hailitt'a  object  of 

producing  an  editioc  of  Tht  Hiitary  of  F.itgliA  Pottrg 

which  should  be  worthy  of  Warton,  acd  do  justice  to  the 

present  state  of  English  scholsrshlp  ao  far  as  relates  to 

this  inlanstlng  sutgect. 

BmriMATtoa  or  St.  Ai.HA>i'a  Abbbt.— All  true  anll- 
qoariss  will  rdoks  to  learn  that  reparation,  not  realora- 
Uon,  la  the  object  of  the  committee,  presided  over  by 
Lord  Teralam.    The  arrangements  for  tbe  public  mee^  ) 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[*»8.VII.  JtFWW,*:!. 


«  lay,  not  be  lost 


log,  (o  be  held  on  Thursdi/,  U  promote  saeh  reparation. 


■bbejr,  of  royal  foaDdiUoB,  Ims  >t  intervsle 
lUbniutloD  recdved  tbe  conaldente  an  of  vu-lona 
•overelgnB.  In  a.d.  1612,  fur  ezunple,  front  James  1.,  by 
brief—"  That  monarch  took  a  personal  Tiaw  of  the  rtmo- 
ture  as  be  made  bis  progress  Into  tbe  Korlb, '  and  ont  of 
his  princdf  zeal  aod  pious  Induudoa  to  pmerre  so 
antient  a  monament  and  memorable  iritneBse  of  the  first 
conversion  of  this  kinTdom  fhim  Paganisme  to  Chris- 
tianity, Kranted  a  brief  for  collections  to  be  made  throagb- 
DDt  EDgtaad  and  Wales  for  the  speedy  repair  of  tbe 
same.'  "-(Old  MS.) 

1681.  Charles  II„  by  brief. 

1689.  William  and  Mary  by  giuit  oat  <f  certain  eael»' 
eiastlcBl  funds. 

1731.  George  I„  by  brief. 

1764.  Geo —  '"   ■--  '^-" 

1832.  Wll 
andet  his  ansj^oea. 

The  example  thus  set  Till, 
tight  of  on  the  present  eccasion. 

AsoLBOLoaicAi.  iKsriTDTB  OF  GsmiiT  BnrrAiN,— 

The  preliminary  srringoments  have  been  made  for  tba 
congreu  of  this  aixdety.  to  ha  held  this  vesr,  towards  the 
latter  end  of  July,  at  Cardifi'.  The  Harqnis  of  Bute  wiU 
be  president ;  tbe  Dake  of  Bedford,  Lord  Tredegar,  the 
Earl  of  Csffdor,  Mr.  C.  R.  Mansel  Talbot,  M.P..  and  the 
Bishop  of  LlandafT,  tbe  local  patrooa. 

The  Offidal  Report*  of  the  Tarions  seetiaiis  of  tbe 
London  Intaniltioital  EzhlUdon  are  already  nearly  com- 
peted. Part  I.  of  the  Fine  Arta  Division,  comprising 
Pahitinf  hi  Oil,  by  Bir  Conlts  Lfoduy ;  Painting  in 
Water  Coloar,  liy  Hr.  8.  Bedgrave  i  Miseeilaneoos  Faint- 
ipB,  trv  Sir  M.  Dlgby  WyBtt;  and  Moaafos  and  Stained 
Glass,  bj  Mr.  T.  Gambler  Parrr,  wUI  appear  in  a  few 
days.  I/}Td  HonehtoD  Is  tbe  general  editor,  llie  Rworta 
are  tn  bo  pnblished  by  Heasn.  J.  M.  JobneoD  and  doni, 
and  frill  be  Kdd  In  the  Exhibition  at  popolar  price*. 

LlHCOLH  CATnKnRAi.  LmRAitr.  —  Dr.  Jeremie,  tbe 
present  Dean,  his  prcseDted  npTrards  of  a  thoasand  works 
to  the  cathedral  library.  Great  improTementi  have  lately 
been  made  in  this  library.  The  whole  collection,  irhich 
contains  many  rare  and  Talnable  bocriis  and  manuscripts, 
is  now  open  to  all  tbe  cleigy  of  the  dtoceie,  and  a  cata- 
logue, very  carefully  drawn  up  by  the  Librarian,  bat 
been  published. 

Ths  remains  of  Ugo  Fosoolo,  the  celebrated  Itali  in  poet 
and  patriot,  were  Int  Wedneeday  week  disinterred  at 
Cbiswiok  cimrchyard,  fn  tbe  preeence  of  the  Italian 
Minlstor  and  a  oninber  of  distinguished  Italians,  for  tbe 
pnrpoee  of  being  removed  to  Italy,  tn  be  reinterred  in  tbe 
ehnroh  of  La  Santa  Crooa,  at  Florenoe.  AlthoDgb  the 
body  has  been  under  ground  for  fbrty-fonr  years  the 
fbnn  was  Intact  apd  the  ftatniet  still  perfect. 

The  Iste  Mie.  Charies  Uaclaren,  widow  of  Charles 
Haclaren,  at  one  Ume  editor  of  7%<  SeottnoM,  baa  be> 
queached  2,fiD<U.  to  found  a  Kholaruhip  connected  with 
Uic  University  of  Edinburgh,  to  be  called  "The  Charia 
Haclaren  Scbolanhip." 

AROHfOLOaiOAL    DlBOOTERIES    AT  FlMKLEY. —  Dr. 

J.  Stevens,  of  St-Msry  Boomt  Hants,  has  Just  discovered 
a  Roman  villa  at  Finkley,  Sir  C.  Hoare^s  site  ofVin- 
domis.  It  is  sitnated  400  yards  west  of  tbe  Portway. 
Ttien  ar«,  he  Mja,  at  leMt  three  othen  eloae  by. 


fiotfmt  to  CorrnipaiAmU. 

Cbakles  Rookhs,  LL.D.— Sir  Ajidnur  AontK,  BaH. 
dad  on  April  12,  1849.  (Gent.  Mag,  Jmiu,  IMS,  p.  647.) 

W.  (Keswick,  Cumberiand.)  —  nU  W.  fet  m  iw 
■There  a  commKneattoii  mil  fitui  tiM  f 

To  all  cimintaiicaiiani  itiould  bt  aglxtd  tkt  aamt  md 
addrea  of  tkt  tender,  nat  neeenarily  far  pHtlicatioM,  bat 
OM  a  ynarajdee  of  good  failh. 

Erratuu. — 111  S.  vii.jp.35S,eoL  ILIine  24  from  bottom, 
yor  "Enganian  "  rtad  "  Euganean." 


The  Vellum  ToTe  Clnb-hDiue  Paper, 
The  New  Tellum  Wore  Olnb-HonM  Pv«r 


HTtiv.^^  Hu^le  PbApi.  oantKliiliia  an  Aaottaiaii  of  tin  vaaWa 


PAKTRIDSE    AMB    OOOPBft. 

MANUFACrCEINQ  STATIONERS, 
192,  Fleet  Street  (Corner  of  Chancery  Lane). 

CABBIAOE  PAID  TO  THE  OOOSTaT  OF  ORDBU 

KXcXEDtna  «iL 

ROTt  PAPER. Onus  or  BlH.S>.,W..3>..*B4*t.p* 


**&T1L  Jbk«M,T1.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


tOjrSOir.SATORDAr.JUSS  «,18 


OOHTEHTS^-M*  18!. 

SOTB9 !  —  Boiiu  of  Taint  ud  NooolK  In  Brnttf  I 

eiooitlc  Tin  Slncbif  " "  ""      "-" — 

X^^tlqp^Bdittni^] 


[dblSE^^ 


no  — McM 

R^^Bnw^'ii'  Lih  (TjohoKiD  "  —  Abwiom  mndAdiltar 
phd  — Utrr,  QoMB  nfSoaM  — BUOd  ud  tUBn  —  Oi- 
wlu"!  ThMOT  in  Jan,  SSL 

QUBBI8S:  —  BiiCi«Tl)]gtfAnD«atI>eraiMrk,N8  — Birah 
FmdUt— Tha  Bome  Tree — BuokW,  It  OiBnd — "  Cuukv 
lllaistu' —  Dudy  Bolls  —  BnglUi  Bibia— "Tbe  Four 
LHt  Thlnga"  —  HeUonbalna  —  ReraUln  —  Hans  — 
HoDoaMDt  of  BferPeUilAlrlQOUiboiii— HarbiU7l>nn 
—  JSary  Banfi  Prophm?  —  Louis  ^tm— Perlodiaali  — 
VftltoD'i  "LifGorlfr.Dam**''— PbOlpWllliimi's  Utt- 
pbor — "  Wnok  of  tbe  Londan,"  s  Pond  by  nisbill,  EM. 

KBPLIB8:— The"FettasLaok"  u  aCDnimiiOB  Of  the 
iiOnnirfVnilull,  IM—na^ViOii^iat.at—'DtaTmd- 

PUl  or  I>mM»-A  NaA 


n  on  the 


Qocrlea,  5U  —  OaiiDui  Sulbou  Obnnili,  Dal_ 
Auilnrt  BlMlei— BsB-dlil  InmlpttaDi  —  John  . 

BaodB<ra>nitae«atftOlMMlM*— "HMOnMnti 

an  not  the  WtHnHn"— SsMiTidklitni  TbeStow- 
worm— "Cram  Oga  to dog^ Ic  —Sate  ofChaooor'* 
Mrth— "HaitofHaarte'-^OMtM-MiMaMRdLBMr 
LoDtli— Ol«aftwds  <«  NavaA.  Btnaeta  —  "  Tbs  ShnitM 


[>abllD,iI.— 
[otan  Dtbt— 
ntntOetka 


iftwds  <«  NevaA.  I 

^"-OldSeotdiirei. ,_.       

edKkmeriBn— JiAn  PoMar  of  Wordrin.  ITTS - 
■!0le-BwiMBtalBadea%IIgtt«M,  Ab— JAdhq 


Hempapera — "OaBtsrtnirr 


I  approached  Qia  nte  vhete  these  andent  cii^ 
are  eiuipomd  to  huve  beea  oUced,  from  the  diiec- 
-  tioa  01  Cosema,  the  capital  of  ana  of  the  CsJ*- 
briaa,  h&Ting  paned  the  night  at  the  small  Tillage 
of  IKano,  which  omlo^B  a  beantifal  wooded 
TsUe^j  tmt  which  I  found  finm  the  official  »u- 
thoriti««  to  be  only  a  decaitful  cloak  at  Inigandage, 
and  that  I  vas  in  fitct  ezemplifjiiig  the  sajisg  of 
Horace  (Car,  U.  i.  7) — 


As  the  least  dangerous  comae,  I  vas  adTised  t 
make  stnught  fbi  the  coast,  walking  along  th 
banks  of  the  Savnto^  tiie  ancieiit  Sabbatus,  and  _ 
was  the  more  indined  to  do  this,  as  it  brought 
me  to  the  spot  ■wbm  I  knew  these  andent  dtiee 
are  supposed  to  hare  been  titnated.  Boad  there 
WBB  none,  but  I  passed  without  much  difficulty 
down  the  bed  of  the  Saruto,  which  risee  in  the 
table  land  of  La  8ila  finm  a  fissure  in  the  hill,  at 
a  spot  called  Im  Fontana  del  Labro,  and  becomes 
at  oDoe  a  large  stream.  In  the  begmmng  of  May 
it  had  a  conaideiable  body  (^  water,  and  in  the 
winter  season  it  must  be  quite  impassable.  Henir, 
eldest  son  of  f^edeock  XL,  was  drowned  in  at- 
ten^tang  to  cross  the  rirer,  aad  on  looking  at  its 


winter  channd  I  could  believe  that  such  an  a^ 
cident  could  eaallT  t^ie  place.  After  a  fatiguii;^ 
walk,  and,  I  confess,  Tnth  consideTable  tre^d*- 
tioD,  I  got  safely  to  the  Tillage  (rf  Nocera,  whidi 
ia  believed  by  some  to  represent  the  aodent  Nu- 
ceria,  cmly  known  to  us  by  its  coioa,  whick 
have  the  Greek  iiMCiiption  Notkpiiwn.  The  coiiu 
hare  on  the  obvene  a  head  of  Apollo  crowned 
with  laurel ;  on  the  reverse  a  lion  s  head ;  and 
what  iacnriouSf  those  of  Terinadifierinno  lespeet 
but  in  the  ep^njA,  which  ia  tbpina  aod  tepi- 

NAIQN. 

The  villsge  of  Nocon  is  prettily  ntnated  on 
the  declivity  of  a  liill  a  short  distance  from  the 
baoks  of  the  Savuto,  which  falls  into  the  sea 
some  three  miles  further  dovrn.  This  ie  the  first 
interruptMHi  in  that  mountain  ridge,  which  be- 
gins  a  littlo  north|c^  Paola.  The  valley  is  about 
a  mile  in  breadth,  whco  the  mount^na  agun  riso 
snddoily  to  a  coasidemble  height,  and  are  wooded 
to  the  top,  Nothing  could  exceed  the  beauty 
of  the  spot,  aad  it  may  very  well  be  the  nt» 
of  an  ancient  village :  but  tht^h  I  made  diligent 
inqiurT  of  the  inteUigent  inhatntaote,  both  1^ 
and  clerical,  I  could  bear  at  no  andent  remuna 
that  had  ever  been  diacovared  at  NocerL  Yet  tJu 
modem  name  and  the  aadeot  ctaaa  render  it  dif- 
colt  i&ot  to  believe  that  aome  sack  d^  mnat  have 
been  placed  in  this  neighboarhood.  Nextmominc 
I  proMeded  intit  the  B^ndio  of  Noom»,  who  had 
promised  to  Aow  me  tie  ruins  of  an  ancient  dtf 

about  throe  miles  diatr-'    '-      '-  "■ "^- 

passed  down  the  left  1 
reached  a  spot  called  Tbrre  M  Piano,  vrhoe  it 
vfms  evident  that  the  ertMme  point  of  the  hill  had 
been  levelled,  A  few  bricks  were  scattered  here 
and  there,  while  the  foundations  of  housee  were 
clearly  to  be  traced.  What,  however,  showed  the 
importance  of  tbe  d^  waa  the  aqueduct,  which 
had  conveyed  water  to  it  from  the  Savuto,  and 
which  is  stiU  to  be  seen  in  tolerable  preswvatiao. 
May  not  this,  liierafore,  be  the  eite  or  tite  andcsit 
Nnceria,  as  we  know  the  piratieal  attacks  of  th 
Saracens  during  the  Midole  Ages  drove  the  in- 
halutants  on  the  coast  to  seek  safer  positioos  in 
theinteriot  ?  and  it  mig^t  be  thus  that  the  pruent 
Nocera  took  its  rise.  It  may  bo  asketL  if  Ibis 
be  so.  where  are  we  to  find  the  position  of  Terina. 
We  know  it  to  have  been  a  city  of  considerable 
note,  as  it  gave^^name  to  the  bay  now  known  as 
Sta,  Enphemis,  beine  called  by  Thucydides  (vi. 
104)  rhr  Ttfir»4ar  (rtAiim,  where  Gyflppus  the 
LaMdcemcnisn,  b.o.  413,  was  driven  by  advise 
winds  &om  the  coast  of  Sidly.  Stmbo  (vi.  366) 
informs  us  that  it  was  destroyed  by  Hannibfa 
about  B.C.  SO^  when  he  could  no  longer  retwn  it^ 
and  H  probably  never  recovered  dma  this  blow, 
though  it  b  mentioned  by  Fliny  and  Ftolemy. 

I  tnink  we  must  go  some  twelve  miles  farther 
south  to  look  ibr  the  miiis  of  Terina,  to  the  neck 


0  by  Google 


530 


MOTES  AND  QUEKIES. 


[4*8.Tll.Jo»Bl4,'71, 


of  land  wbich  Pliny  (iii.  IS.  1)  mentions  in  coa- 
nectioiL  vith  the  bay  of  Teiii)&.  He  bajb  :  "  Scylln- 
amn  .  .  .  quein  locam  occnmiu  Teiimeus  unus 
penionlam  efficit"  This  narrow  neck  of  land, 
ftbout  twenty  miles  in  bi'eadth  between  the  seas, 
it  was  proposed  by  Dionystos  the  Elder,  abont 
B.O.  390,  to  cut  tlirou^h  and  fortify,  in  order  to 
defend  the  coun^  to  the  sonth  from  the  barbarous 
Brattii  of  the  Sita.  The  site  of  Terina  hss  been 
songbt  at  &a.  Etiphemia  VeccMa,  but  I  wonld  go 
a  few  miles  farther  inland  to  the  village  of  Tirioh, 
where  I  found  the  ruins  of  a  conaderable  town. 
It  may  be  said  this  ie  too  far  inland  to  have  given 
name  to  the  bay,  but  it  will  be  observed  that  this 
bay  was  called  in  later  times,  after  Terina  had 
in  a  great  measnre  disappeared  from  history, 
Hipponiates,  from  the  city  of  Hipponium  or  Vibo, 
the  modem  MonU-Uone,  which  is  nearly  at  an 
eqaal  distance  from  tlie  sea.  In  fact  it  would 
leceiTO  ita  name  from  the  largest  city  within  a 
moderate  distance  of  the  coast;  Terina  in  early 
times,  and  Viho  latterly,  seem  to  have  been  so. 
The  village  of  Tiriolo  is  sitaated  on  a  steep  de- 
clivity of  the  Apennines,  where  the  mountams  of 
the  Sila  come  to  an  abrupt  close,  and  where  the 

Jlains  of  Muda  are  found,  famed  for  the  battle  on 
nly  4, 1806,  between  the  English  troops  under 
Sir  John  Staart  and  the  French  under  Qeneral 
Regnier.  The  ruins  of  the  ancient  dty  at«  a  mile 
below  the  present  village,  and  are  of  conaderable 
siie.  If  this  be  not  Terina,  we  know  of  no  other 
ancient  city  in  this  neighbourhood.  It  was  here 
that  a  bronze  tablet  was  found  in  1640,  on  which 
is  inscribed  a  decree  of  the  Roman  senate,  b.c.  166, 

Sunst  a  society  devoted  to  the  worehip  of  Bac- 
us,  which  had  ezdted  their  alarm  from  the 
licentious  and  profligate  character  of  its  devotees. 
This  decree  is  referred  to  by  JAyj  (sxzix.  18), 
and  it  is  surpiiBiogthataco^  of  it  should  bare 
been  found  in  this  remote  part  of  Italy  in  the  ruins 
of  a  town  respecting  whose  name  there  should  be 
any  doubt.  This  tabletis  to  be  seen  in  the  Royal 
Museum  of  Vienna,  and  its  enacting  clauses  I 
{bund  to  be  the  following : — 


The  present  inhabitants  of  Tiriolo  are  a  race  of 
sturdy  mount^ueers,  and  its  women  were  par- 
ticululy  strikiug  for  their  Amazonian  figures.  I 
ascended  to  the  summit  of  a  lofty  hill  behind  the 
village,  from  which  Mount  Mtm  and  Stromboli 
can  easily  be  distinguished  when  the  horizon  is 
unclouded.  Though  my  view  was  not  so  exten- 
sive, I  was  amply  repaid  for  the  &tigue  of  the 
ascent.  1  was  standing  on  the  last  of  that  lofty 
range  of  mountains  whicb  runs  down  through  the 
.centre  of  Italy,  and  here  unks  abruptly  nearly  to  a 


level  with  the  Be&  The  plains  of  Uuda  and  Catan- 

zaro  lay  before  me,and  beyond  them  the  mountains 
again  rose  vrith  the  same  abruptness,  and  continued 
their  coune  to  the  extreme  point  of  Italy.  To 
the  north  my  view  was  confined  by  the  mountaina 
of  the  Sila  towering  one  above  another;  to  the 
east  my  eye  rested  on  a  point  of  land  whicb  T 
knew  to  form  the  promontory  of  Capo  delle  Co- 
lonne,  to  which  I  have  already  ^4<^  9.  v.  41S> 


CKATjnrKD  Tait  Ruiask 


GIGANTIC  TIN  SINGING  TBUMPET8. 

I  think  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  following- 
extracts  from)"TBbIe  Talk  "  in  7^  avardiaa  ought 
to  have  that  further  drcujation  which  "  N  ft  Q." 
alone  can  ^ve  them,  and  which  may  probably 
draw  forUi  further  information  of  interest  in  con- 
nection with  the  subject.  I  may  premise  that 
your  learned  correspondent  Hb.  £.  Fsaoock 
sent  a  notice  of  the  Willonghton  trumpet  to  Syl- 
vaniis  Urban,  which  mav  be  seen  illustrated  by  ■ 
woodcut  in  the  OmL  Mag.^  December,  1866,  bot 
nothing  further  was  ascertamed  at  the  time.  The 
following  wpeared  in  Tht  Ouardiim  for  April  5, 
1871:— 

"At  the  psriih  chnmh  of  Eut  Leika,  KoUa,  u  lb- 
back  as  Axty  yean  at  least,  and  till  vitiiin  tba  I>M 
twenty  y»ra,  a  gigantic  >pssk!niMrampM  was  used  Tor 
the  bus  ringer  to  dng  Uuinigfa.  It  is  now  in  tin  keqiing 
of  the  pariili  clerk,  and  mcasates  when  drawn  onl(it  has 
•me  ■lids  like  ■  tBlescApe)  Tft.  6iD.,  with  ■  bell  moatli 
1ft.  9in.  in  diameter.  Cin  any  of  tlM  readen  of  '  Table 
Talk '  infann  me  of  tin  existtooe  ^  any  almQar  InMra- 
ment  7  The  pirishionen  uy  Uwre  ia  bat  one  mora  in 
the  kingdom. — C  3.  Miij.AnD,  Costock  Bectwy,  Loogli- 
borough." 

In  the  succeeding  numbei  was  this: — 
"  The  Bev.  C.  3.  UilUrd,  of  Coatodc,  Sff>  that,  in 
aniwer  tohiiqaesUoninlaitwo&'s'TablalUki'hebas 
received  Utten  describing  Ibnr  ringine-trnmnets  aimilai 
Co  the  one  at  But  Leaks.  Tba  Rev.  C.  NevOe,  at  FM- 
borougb  SKtory,  Newark,  mentions  one  fbrnwrly  at 
ITioniey,  Notts,  lort,  hejfean,  when  'the  dmnsb  was  it- 


feop]B  to  cbatchbepntbtOiKert  availed  I 
urs.  nicDoison.  of  WilloDghtoa  Grange,  Lfncolnahii^ 
describes  one  in  her  poasesslon  witli  two  dJdaa  measoriag 
when  at  full  length  6ft.,  and  1ft.  Sin.  acroM  ttie  month. 
It  is  said  by  tridition  to  have  been  nied  in  WilloagfatoD 
chnrch  in  giving  oat  the  hymns,  thongb  no  one  living  in 
the  parigh  can  remember  seaiDg  it  In  the  chnrch.  Ht.  F. 
U.  Sntton,  of  Theddingworth  Rectoir,  menCiDni  two- 
One  at  Harrington,  the  other  at  Brsybrooke,  neigbbonr- 
iDg  villiges  ia  Northaats.  The  Harrington  one  in  in 
bad  ordei,  but  the  Bcsj-trooiu  one  ia  in  good  condition, 
with  a  stand  abant  five  feet  high  to  rest  it  on.  He  ujs, 
'  1  have  beard  the  voice  throagb  it,  and  it  ii  rendered 
very  powerful  in  singlag.  Hiey  say  fn  the  village  that 
it  was  used  for  leading  Uie  idoging  wittiin  memory.  .  .  . 
I  fancy  fnna  the  look  of  the  trumpets  and  stand  that 
tbey  are  seventeealh-eentnry  things,  but  may  be  idder. 


DigiiizecbyV-jOOy  IC 


4'»8.Vir.  JosEiJ,*;!.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Tlie  aSect  la  rather  liko  that  of  tb«  ophiclcidea  odb  hears 
abroad,  and  they  mit  Gregoriuis  capitally.'  Mr.  Fiidd, 
the  rector  of  Bnybrooke,  gives  the  dimooaioiiB  of  thii 
trumpet  la  6(1.  Bin.  In  leiwth.  and  2ft.  lis.  acron  the 
bell-mauth.  It  bis  ao  Blide  liks  a  (cltacape.  Are  tho 
loven  of  Gregorisoa  prepared  to  adopt  Ur,  Satton'a 

blQt  ?  " 

It  seems  quite  certain  that  these  instnimeDta 
were  uaed  ia  order  to  make  the  moat  of  the  voice 
of  the  prindpal  Tillage  Tocaliet,  whether  in  "  lead- 
iDg,"  generally  bj  singing  the  melodj,  or  in  lead- 
ing  the  basses.  Wien  these  trumpets  were  in 
common  use,  tuaea  for  Tillage  pnalmody  were 
for  ^e  most  part  arranged  wiUi  toe  melody  as  a 
tenor  part;  then  those  who  sang  by  ear  could 
easily  take  it  up,  whether  boys,  women,  or  men ; 
while  for  such  as  could  read  music  or  had  a  sense 
of  harmony  there  was  a  second  treble  or  counter- 
tenor  ^"alto  ")  part,  and  also  a  bass  part.  How- 
eTer  tne  trumpeta  may  haTe  been  used,  we  may 
well  believe  that  the  trumpeter  would  be  in  his 
greatest  glory  in  such  passages  as  the  bit  of  bass 
Bolo  in  "Cambridge  New,"  or  in  Clarke's  psalm, 
"Lord,  'tis  a  pleasant  thing  to  stand,"  where 
"like  a  young  cedar"  comes  in.  I  have  under- 
stood that  in  Lincolnshire  the  chief  bass  singer 
often  never  attempted  to  pronounce  the  words  at 
all,  but  devoted  all  the  eneivies  of  body,  soul,  and 
spirit  to  the  enunciation  of  tne  notes.      J.  T.  F. 

HatdeU  Hal),  Durham. 


NOTE  MISSING  IN  KEIGHTLETS  EDITION  OF 

MlLTON-a  POEMS. 

To  my  »ery  great  surprise,  in  looking  over  my 

Soems  of  Milton  after  they  had  been  published,  1 
)und  there  was  no  note  on  the  well-known  — 
"MiUloaaofaplritnaldtaturesvslk  the  earth,"  Ac 
Par.  Lott,  iv.  877. 
Now,  that  I  should  have  left  it  so  is  an  utt«r 
imposdbility,  and  it  at  last  struck  me  that^  as  I 
wrote  my  notes  on  small  paper,  the  leaf  contaming 
it  must  have  been  lost  at  the  printing-ofGce,  ana 
never  miased  by  the  printer  or  by  myselF.    To 
remedv  the  evil  as  far  as  possible,  I  have  added 
the  following  paragraph  in  MS.  to  the  sectdon  on 
Pneumatology  m  my  Zi/e,  Src.  of  Mittan : — 

"These  good  and  evil  sngelawere,  acoordinic  to  Mil- 
ton'a  ideas,  the  onlv  animated  and  rational  beings  in 
exialenie  when  God  resolved  to  creato  the  world,  and 
place  on  tbe  oartb,  its  centre,  tbe  Snt  hninaa  pair.  It 
majr,  tberelbre,  snrprin  t«  meet  in  Paradite  Lott  the  two 
folloniag  puaages.    In  tlie  Srat,apeaking  of tiie  stara,  he 

'■'OrotherworlJs  they  seemed,  or  happy  isles. 
Like  those  Hesperian  gardeoa  famed  of  old, 
Forluaate  fielda  and  groves  and  flowery  vales, 
ThriCB-happy  itlea,  but  aho  daeli  happy  Oitrt, 
Ha  stayed  not  to  inqnira."— iiL  667. 
"  The  next  is  :— 

" '  UillJons  of  spiritnal  creatures  walk  the  earth 
Unseen,  both  when  we  wake  and  when  we  sleep ; 
All  these  with  ceaseless  praise  his  works  behold, 
Both  day  ind  night'— iv.  677. 


"  The  first  of  these  is  an  instance  of  what  we  have 
already  noticed,  the  poet's  halting  between  the  Ptolemaic 
and  Copemican  systems ;  the  second  is  a  remarkable 
proof  or  the  power  the  imagination  possesses  of  over- 
ridin^andcontrollingtheothermental  fkcolties.  Milton's 
imaffLDStioa  being  fall  of  a  well-known  beantiful  passage 
In  Hesiod,*  be  i^lolved  to  imitate  and  snrpasa  it,  utierly 
forgetfal  of  bow  completely  it  waa.at  variance  with  his 
whole  system  of  pneumatology.  What  could  Jie  have 
replied,  if  asked  who  or  wbat  those  spiritual  creatures 
were,  or  where  they  came  from  ?  Bat  this  qaestion  never 
aeems  to  have  entered  hia  own  mind,  or  those  of  his  com- 
mectatora.  It  may,  no  doubt,  bi  said  that  they  were 
good  angels  (see  v.  647) ;  but  these  were  the  residents  of 
heaven  alone,  which  tlins  rarely  if  ever  left,  unless  when 
diqiatclied  on  special  errandB." 

Having  thns  CDted  as  well  as  I  could  the  only 
defect  of  any  importance  to  be  found  in  m  v  Poemt 
of  Millm,  I  venture  to  chum  for  it  the  character 

S'ven  it  by  one  of  our  most  disdnguished  pre- 
tes,  that  of  btang  bv  far  the  best  edition  at  an 
EWliah  clasnc  in  the  langu^. 

'The  beautiful  Variorum  Edition  of  Shakespeare 
now  coming  out  at  Philadelphia,  U.  8.,  will  dis- 
play the  number,  variety,  and  value  of  my  notes 
and  emendations  aa  compared  with  those  of  my 
predecessors;  and  I  feel  convinced  that  for  many 
years  to  come  my  name  will  appear  in  constant 
union  with  those  of  our  two  (may  1  not  say  three  F). 
greatest  poets. 

A  parasitic  immortality  I  it  may  invidiously  ba 
sud.  Even  be  it  so:  it  contents  me.  I  have,. 
however,  written  other  works  which  may  be  read', 
for  many  a  year  to  come.    Thoius  !Kbiohtlet. 


A  PLAGIARISM. 


de  Jeagd,  by  K.  F.  Stallaert,  Ghent,  1805),  I- 
found  an  alleged  incident  in  tbe  life  of  Louis  tbD' 
Male,  Coimt  of  Flanders,  sa  having  occurred  in- 
1361  at  die  French  court  of  John  the  Good,  whera- 
the  burgomastera  and  sherifis  of  Bruges,  Ghent, 
and  Ypres  hod  presented  themselves,  with  tbeir 
coun^  to  pay  homage  to  the  new  king  on  the 
occasion  of  hia  coronation.  It  is  therein  recorded 
(p.  47)  that  at  the  grand  tourney  held  in  comme- 
moration of  the  event,  Louis,  who  was  a  stately 
knight,  carried  off  all  the  honours.  Notwith- 
standing the  magnificent  display  of  the  surround- 
ings of  royalty  at  the  fesdve  board  on  the  same 
evening,  the  narrative  proceeds,  there  was  some- 
thing, nowever,  which  displeased  the  natives  of 
Bruges:  it  was  their  seats,  which,  whether  simply 
of  wood  or  not  so  costly  as  those  they  had  been 
used  to,  seemed  to  make  them  uncomfortable. 
Perhaps  they  had  hardly  imagined,  at  tbe  French 
court,  that  ihey  were  too  common  for  Flemings. 

"  It  was  enough  ;   the  men  of  Broges  spread  th<-ir 
splendid  thickly  gold-covered  scariet  msntlea  upon  their 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'*aTIL  JoaKH*7L 


__., ^ ,  .Jl  them  there  apoo  their  dep*rl 

This  Htonl^ed  ttM  l^ag  u  well  u  all  hia  eonrtiug 
gnob;  and  mtmmgat  were  eent  eftar  thoa  ts  1>J 
Qicm  of  That  bad  Sen  forgntten.  Bat  SIhumb  aj 
BmlllDfclj  to  the  polite  maMer  ot  ceremoniee :  '  Fn 
when  w*  Fleniings  leave  the  diniiig'-Uble  we  newi  eauy 
away  our  snCl  with«a." 

Koif  it  h&ppeoB  that  this  tale  ia  told  of  Bobert 
of  Kormaady  in  his  travele,  k>id«  himdieds  of 
jwTS  before,  to  the  Holy  Land.  Alaiatra  Wu», 
the  NoTman  tronvh-e,  in  his  metrical  duonicles 
follows  the  duke  to  Gonatan^ople,  where  tiie 
emperor  g'ave  him  an  inritatioD  to  meet  him  at 
his  palace,  hut  neTer  as  much  as  offered  him  a 
chair.  The  following  lines,  given  as  an  English 
version  of  the  passage  rsferind  to,  are  taken  (I 
believe)  from  Slackwoo^i  Magattne  for  August, 
1836:— 

"  Then  from  liia  shoulden  oS  he  drew 

His  manUei  on  the  grooud  he  threw 

It  down,  and  eat  himaelf  thereon. 

The  convene  nded,  when  each  one 

Jtoee  to  depart,  be  left  it  there. 

One  oT  the  Greeiu,  with  coorteons  care. 

Reminded  him,  and  to  him  brought 

That  mantle  rich  and  foii  ywronght, 

That  he  might  pot  it  on  i  bat  be 

Replied— with  true  nobilitie— 

■  Where  I  have  left  it  let  it  lif ,  [lic] 

1  carry  not  my  uat  away.' " 
History  is  sud  to  repeat  itself,  but  I  caunot 
think  the  two  pictures  a  coincidence.  The  only 
question  is,  under  how  many  forma  and  undw 
what  varied  drcumstancea  has  the  incident  been 
misrecitedF  H.W.  E. 

Boswxll's  Litb  ov  JoHNSfor. — There  ia  an 
error  in  BosweU  wluch  neither  Cr(dcer  uor  any 
later  commentates  luu,  I  think,  detectad.  The 
dates  of  the  various  epochs  of  the  career  of  the 

great  convenational  gladiat^w  of  tiie  last  century 
are  the  very  vertebns  of  his  Life.  Now  one  oi  the 
chief  of  these  dates  JEJoawell  baa  evidently  aet 
down  incorrectly.  At  paae  30  of  the  1860  edi- 
tion, BosweU,  in  hia  list  of  Johnson's  Loudon  red- 
dences,  writes   "  St^le  Inn,  1768,"  whereas  in 

Eage  118  he  inserta  a  letter  of  Johnson's  to  Mra. 
lucy  Porter,  dated  March  23, 1758,  which  con- 
tains the  following  eoDcluaive  passage : — 

"  I  have  thij  day  mirved  my  thin;^  and  yon  are  now 
to  direct  to  me  at  Slapie  Inn,  Lotidoit,  Ac  ....  I  am 
going  to  publish  a  little  atorv  book  (^Baudai),  which  I 
will  send  you  when  it  is  out. 

In  1769  Johnson  was 

mother  had  been  buried  <. _    

of  the  same  year.  Raateiat  was  written  in  Marcn 
1759,  and  published  in  April.  Johnson  received 
100/.  for  the  fint  edition,  and  261,  for  the  second. 
He  told  Beynolda  that  he  wrote  it  in  seven  con- 
aeoutive  evenings.    With  the  1001^  Johnson,  like 


a  good  eon,  de&ajed  the  expense  of  hia  mottiei'a 
funeral,  and  pud  off  some  small  debts  she  had  in- 
curred in  Lichfield,  Voltaire's  CoHJitfe,  also  a  pro- 
test against  the  comfortable  doctrines  of  optinnsm, 
appeared  about  a  month  before  Eaatcitu,  but  John- 
son had  not  seen  it.  Two  passages  in.  Jtan^tn, 
alludjiog  to  the  death  of  the  authra's  mother,  al- 
ways seem  to  me  peculiarly  toui^ung  iUiiats&tiana 
<tt  what  a  fender  heart  the  big  bear-like  man 
had.  The  first  ia  in  chapter  zlv.,  wheie  Imlae 
the  Bwe  says:  "  I  have  neither  moth«  to  be  da- 
lighted  with  tiie  Ttfmtatioti  of  her  son,  nor  wife 
to  partalte  the  hooouis  of  her  hosbaud."  In 
another  place  Imlao  SMys:  "That  the  dead  am 
seen  Qo  mora  I  will  not  undertake  to  HWMitwn 
against  the  concurrent  and  unvarying  taatiiao&y 
of  all  (^es  and  of  all  natitwa," 

Johnson,  at  the  time  he  was  in  Staple  la^ 
was  carrying  «n  the  Mier,  which  he  began  Aaril 
15, 1758,  and  ended  Ajml  6, 1760.  He  eeatn  to 
have  left  Staple  Inn  in  Deeember  17S8,  foiCkfty'i 
Inn.  It  was  as  nearly  as  poamhk,  too,  abo«t  tits 
same  time  that  JohnsoB.  formed  the  acgtiatntawca 
of  Ooldsmitb,  then  a  bookseller's  hack  ui  Green- 
arbour  Court,  Old  Bailey.  In  1760  he  had  duA- 
beis  at  No.  I,  Itmec  Temple  I«ns,  and  in  1777 
he  went  to  Bolt  Court,  I  feel  a  new  ple«auie  in 
psaeing  along  Eolbmn  when  I  think  d  Johnsou 
reading  the  proo&  of  Bauela*  or  wnting  the  Jdfer 
in  his  chambers  in  Sti^ile  Inn. 

Walieb  Tsoebbttbz. 

6,  Fumival'a  Inn. 

Abbilok  and  Aosttofkxl. — Id  a  note  to  Oie 
following  lines,  which  occur  in  the  weH-hiiown 
desoription  of  Shaftesbory  (Achitophel) — 
"  David  for  him  Ub  tnatfol  harp  bad  lAtnDg, 
And  HeaveB  had  wanted  one  immortal  taag," 
Mr.  Christie,  the  editor  of  the  "  Globe  Edifioii " 
of  Dryden,  makes    the  Mlowing  nngtilar  re- 
main: — 


Surely  this  is  entirely  to  mistake  Dryden's  alItL> 
Mon.  The  poet  haa  been  drawing  (whether  justly 
or  the  reverse  is  not  here  the  question)  a  m 
severe  portrut  of  Shaftesbury,  and  goes  on  to  say 
that  had  he  been  as  loyal  a  subject  as  he  was  an 
upright  judge,  David  would  have  composed  a 
psalm  in  his  honour,  and  Heaven  (to  whose  glory 
David's  psalms  are  without  eicepHon  devoted) 
would  have  been  without  at  least  one  of  the 
number. 

It  is  true  that  on  this  explanation,  Miually  with 
Mr.  Christie's,  the  allegoiy  halts ;  for  Chaifra  IL, 
who  represents  David  in  the  satire,  was  not  in 
the  habit  of  addressing  hymns  to  the  Almighty; 
but  such  occwional  lapses  are  quite  in  Drydon's 
manner ;  and  it  is  certainly  meet  improbable  that, 
Mtogant  or  not,  Dryden  should  speak  of  a  satirical 


Digiiizec  by 


Coogic 


'4>kS.TII.  J(nn34,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


533 


poem  aa  one  b^  the  writing  of  vliieli  TBteftven  " 
could  be  either  pleiued  or  honoured. 

I  aball  be  glad  to  know  if  an;  more  plennble 
sxplaiuttifiit  of  the  paara^e  has  been  soggested. 
Sir  Walter  Soott'a  edition,  like  many  otkere, 
paeeea  over  the  difficult,  "  aiedanmia  pedibns." 

Temple.  Altkrd  AmsKB. 

Habt,  Quxsh  op  S00S& — ^A  tragedy  00  thie 
ever-«ttraetire  these  has  just  appMiea  m  Oer- 
many,  the  outhor'H  name  LoUiei  Eae,  a  natiTe  of 
Ansliia.  The  scene  of  action  is  placed,  not  in 
England,  but  in  Scotland;  and  Mar^  is  not  r^re- 
eented  aa  in  prison,  but  as  a  leigmng  sovereign. 
The  pla;  ia  aaid  to  poaaeae  decided  diamMic 
power,  Bikl  was  receivM,  on  ita  repieeentation  in 
Weimar,  with  great  spplame.  in  the  present 
dearth  01  native  dramalic  talent,  here  iaefine  anV 
jeetfisoiirpIaTwiigbts towoikfrom;  andlfreelj 
throw  ont  the  hint,  as  viggested  to  me  l^  a 
&Tonrable  critique  in  a  Qerman  periodical. 

JOHB  MAffiA.Y. 

Bjrmr  ilTD  Pirrof. — As  I  was  walking  some 
two  or  three  years  afo  through  the  streets  of 
Cambridge  with  my  wife,  we  noticed  in  a  grocer's 
shop  some  peats  flattened  out  and  dried  after  the 
manner  of  biffins.  "  What  do  they  cell  them,  I 
wonder,"  sud  my  wife.  "I^ffins  of  course,"  I 
TepHed,  jokingly.  We  went  into  the  shop  and 
asked.  ''Piffins,  ma'am,"  was  the  reply,  to  my 
great  amnaement.  The  originator  of  uese  driM 
peara  bad  evidently  followed  exactly  the  same 
ttain  of  thought  that  I  myself  had.  Dried  ^iples 
are  called  hiMiu ;  the  word  pear  begins  with  a  j> ; 
therefore  dried  peaia  should  be  caUedj?^in«.  No 
logic — but  concise  and  convenient.  And  so  the 
word  has  passed  into  the  English  language.  It  is 
the  fashion  now-ft-days  for  philologists  to  deny 
that  a  word  can  be  manufactured  in  this  way  out 
of  two  or  more  other  words,"  and  the  word  p^n 
IS  therefore  valuable  aa  showing  bow  convention' 
ally  a  word  may  somatinies  be  fooned.  If  p^n 
has  thus  been  finmed  in  our  own  days,  isit  notpos' 
nble  that  a  few  words  may  have  been  thus  formed 
in  former  days  f  And  if  so,  this  mode  of  word- 
formation,  utterly  illo^cal  and  iiradieal  (if  I  may 
coin  the  wold)  as  it  is,  should  be  borne  in  mind 
Ksposnble. 

I  know  one  other  instance  in  which  &  word  has 
been  manofactuted  in  a  aimilar  manner.  Ajouiig 
lady  of  my  acquaintance  has  for  her  ChristiBn 
names  Jane  Emma,  and  for  some  little  time  she 
was  called  Jane  Emma.  Some  one,  however, 
soon  discovered  timt  Jane  Emma  waa  rather  long, 

•  Tbns  tb«  word  Jibatali  Is  oarnmoaly  believed  by  the 
Jews  to  have  been  rimilaTly  made  np  oat  of  the  pMt, 
preKDt  partidpla  and  ftatmre  of  the  Hebrew  verb  hayah 
or  hmd ;  and  this  oonventioul  derivitioa  ii  tmided 
as  altogether  Imponiblesandildlcnled  by  HebreirscliDlan 
of  tbe  modem  sdioel. 


and  that  Jemma  would  anawer  the  purpose 
equally  well.  The  idea  foond  favour,  and  now 
no  intimate  friend  of  the  yonng  lady  ever  cells 
her  auylhing  else  but  Jemma  *  ;  and  if  she  ever 
Toanies  and  has  daughters,  I  doubt  not  but  that 
one  of  them  will  be  christened  Jemma,  and  then 
some  day  the  origin  of  this  name  may  be  a  puzzle 
to  hei  descendants  and  to  other  people  also. 

F.  Okajtix. 

Darwin's  Theokt  nr  Java.— 

"  Hundreds  of  anecdotes  are  told  concerning  ttitee 
'doublra'  of  the  Jevanew.  If  jon  question  a  native  on 
the  eabjut,  time  1<  not  sne  who  wlU  net  tell  70a,  *The 
monkeys  are  bud  jost  like  ourselves,  but  tbej  are  mach 
cleverer,  and  have  never  choaee  U>  ipuik,  so  that  tllej 
might  not  be  made  to  woik." — ^  PinujM  Soiaid  U> 
IFoiM  by  H.DeBea«>ir. 

This  is  precisely  the  opinion,  and  expressed  too 
in  the  sune  woraa,  which  is  attributed  to  the 
natives  of  India  by  Europeans.  But  because  in 
Hindu  mythology  there  happens  t«  be  a  monkey- 
god,  there  is  do  reeaon  why  such  a  belief  should 
be  attributed  to  them.  They  are  scarcely  suf- 
ficiently enlightened  to  entertain  it  senously. 
Perbope  travelleie  do  not  give  semi-civili^d  ori- 
entals sufficient  credit  for  their  satirical  talents. 
There  may  be  many  a  Dumas  f  in  Java.  S. 


ENGRAVING  OF  ABSE  OF  DENMAKK. 
I  hKve  recently  met  ^th  an  engraved  portrait 
of  Queen  Elizabeth  (P)  three-quarter  length.  As 
I  am  desirous  of  knowing  if  it  is  of  any  value,  I 
will  endeavour  to  describe  it.  The  size  of  uia 
engmvii^  is  10  h^  8}  in.  The  face  is  oertainly 
not  young;  the  hair  in  rolls,  leaving  the  forehead 
bare.  Between  the  fifth  end  sixtb  rolls,  which 
aie  ttansverse  in  their  directicxi  and  powdraed, 
are  what  seem  to  be  shOTt  rolls  of  a  darker 
colour,  so  disposed  as  to  reeemMe  an  embattled 
cotonet,  and  quite  at  the  back  is  a  dark  feather ; 
on  the  left  aide  is  a  long,  narrow,  tapering  plait 
of  hair  with  the  ends  free.  She  wears  a  necklace 
of  three  rows,  and  a  looket  t^tpeaded  to  them. 
On  each  aide  <^  the  tteek  ie  a  braad,  embroidered, 
ribbed,  reverted  nS.  The  low  dreas  has  a  rosetts 
on  each  shoulder,  and  one  in  the  centre ;  on  the 
left  arm  u  a  scarf  with  vaiy  broad  aids  of  fringe. 
The  long  sleeves  end  eaeh  in  a  deep  richly  em- 
tHToidered  leyertad  cuff;  on  each  wrist  is  a  triple 


that  them 

lt9  origin  (till  mora  oMcare  ana  paezung,  lor  mere  is  n 
genuine  lUlian  woniaa's  name  Gemma. — See  Uiia  Yonge's 
But,  of  Oiriitian  Xaaa. 

f  Dnmu  being  saked  by  a  rode  letlow  (with  refeience 
to  hie  complexion)  who  hie  rather  was,  replied  "  A 
negro."— "And  ^four  grsndfsther  ?  "— "  A  monkey,  sir. 
My  pedigTee  begins  where  yonie  er '  " 


byCnOOgle 


534 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4«S.T1I.  JuKBl*.-?!. 


TOW  of  lieadflj  in  the  left  hand  is  a  handkerchief, 
and  in  the  n^ht  a  fan  (P)  of  three  laroe  oatrich 
featherfl  fixed  m  a  handle.  Thewaiatislong,end- 
ing  in  a  hoop.  Unfortunately  the  diess  haa  been 
daubed  over  with  doll  red  point  At  the  bottom 
of  the  engraving  are  the  following  two  versea  of 
eight  linaa  each,  placed  mde  by  eid&  in  manuscript 
characters.  There  is  no  date,  but  thia  inscription : 
— "Sould  hr  John  Ouerton  at  the  White  H( 
neere  the  Fountiune  Taueme  withoat  Newgate. 
Are  to  be  eould  by  .  .  ,  .,*  Peter  Stent." 

Before  the  first  verae  is  a  laige  A,  and  after  the 
second  a  laige  C,  done  in  pale  green  water-colour. 
"  TliM  to  lavit«,  the  great  God  aoit  a  <UrT«, 
Wbon  M«Dd  and  necnat  kyn  good  Princea  are. 
For  thoneh  Oiay  mn  the  nioe  ^  men  and  dfe. 
Death  wema  bat  to  refine  their  Ma{Mtie : 
So  did  the  Qaaeaa  from  heace  her  court  remove. 
And  left  the  Earth  lo  bee  enthron'd  abore  ; 
There  >he  ia  cbang'd,  net  dead— no  good  Prince  dies, 
But  ai  the  day  smme,  onelj  aetti  to  riae. 

"  And  now  that  cload  of  death  la  ouar  bloirae, 
To  heav'n  her  native  aojle,  hei  loule  la  flovne 
Where  Ikt  Redeemer  Uvea,  with  lUm  to  rugne, 
HiUlooi  of  Angalla  waiting  on  the  traioe ; 
No  mon,  as  here,  half  mortall,  half  devine. 
Bat  in  pure  gloiy  in  her  iphen  to  ahine. 
From  wheoee  ahea  eenda  a  brighter  lattre  downs 
Then  Coaan  locke,  or  Arladaea  croinie." 

T.  P.  FEEinE, 
[The  engraviag  of  which  Ha.  Kebkie  bis  fomiihed 

oa  with  a  rough  tradnela  Anne  of  Denmark.  A  fine  im- 

prcBrioD,  but  without  the  laiva  letters  A.  C  and  the  line 

UsinniDR  "  Sonld,"  is  in  the  British  Hownm.   11  il  thaa 

deBcribed  in  Granger  (ed.  1824),  ii.  B  :— 

"  In  a  rich  dreu.  large  resUier  fan  la  her  left  hand, 

sixteen  Eoglish  totmb,  'Thee  to  invite,'  &c.    No  name 

of  anKravBr,&c.;sni«ll  sheet;  -"   " 


BiBCH  Fajiixt. — In  the  church  of  South 
Thoreahy,  Lincolnshire,  IB  B  tablet  to  the  memoir 
of  the  Rev.  Thomas  Birch,  who  died  in  1808,  and 
who  had  been  rector  there  for  upwards  of  fifty 
years.  I  should  feel  obliged  to  any  of  the  numer- 
ous readers  of  "N.  &  Q7'  if  they  could  give  any 
account  of  the  ancestors  of  the  above.  lb.  Birch 
left,  I  believe,  five  sona — viz.  Thomas,  Jonathan, 
William,  Neville,  and  Charlea.  Any  information 
of  the  deacendanta  of  these  would  likewise  be 
esteemed  a  favoui.  F.  M,  Datkik. 

43,  Glaaihoaie  Street,  NattlDgham. 

The  Bocase  Teeb.— In  Fanning  Woods,  Rock- 
ingham Forest,  Northamptonahire,  stands  an  old 
stone  about  three  feet  high,  with  the  following 
inscription : — 

"  Here  in  this  plaes  atood  Bocan  tree." 

If  you  would  rive  aov  information  about "  Bocose 
±ree  "  you  would  gteaUy  oblige  F.  B.  A. 

Thrapflton. 


Cotgiave'i  !I>i'c(iaiuiry.)  Id  Angl>€azon  boc  or  bocet. 
In  modem  Swediah  boi,  denote  a  beech-tree ;  bat  the 
commoD  root  in  all  theee  is  evidently  the  same  us  in  the 
French  fcou,  a  wood,  boeage,  a  grove  of  treea,  aud  the 
English  imod,  which  Is  donbtlcae  merelj  a  metatlMaii  of 
letteti.  The  word  book  also  comes  from  the  aame  loate^ 
from  the  eiieonutance  of  thin  layers  of  wood  or  baik 
having  In  former  times  been  the  materials  on  whidi 
records  of  iny  kind  were  kept.  From  tbe  primary  ^gnifi- 
cadoQ  of  the  root  in  ioc  or  tocAnue,  the  word  by  a  natural 
law  of  metonymy  came  to  be  ap^ed  to  particalar  treea 
■a  well  as  to  wood  in  general.  Wbat  this  aignilicatioa 
originally  leallj  was  would  be  difflcnit  to  pronoonee  on 
podtlvely,  and  at  least  noold  entail  a  lengtlieQed  and 
wearisome  disqnisitiaa.  Bescherelle  derives  Mi  bom 
the  Greek  Bi""",  to  graie,  from  woods  bdng  the  pasture  * 
grounds  of  cattle  1  but  this  explaaatim.  though  it  doabt- 
!«s  carries  some  truth,  is  msnifestlj  Imperfect.  In 
"  X.  &  Q."  i'^  S.  vili.  498,  wll!  also  be  found  some  con- 
jectures as  to  the  origin  of  the  Bocaae  tree.] 

BccELET,  AT  OzroRS. — Soma  yean  ago  there 
was  a  young  man  at  the  Tlniveraity  of  Oxford  of 
the  name  of  Buckley,  who  gave  promise  of  gT«at 
eminence  in  classical  and  genenil  literature,  had 
his  life  been  spared ;  but  he  was  cat  off,  by  fever, 
I  believe,  before  he  had  reached  his  thirtieth  year. 
He  was  indefatiKahle  in  editing  new  and  improred 
editions  of  standard  school  and  college  books,  and 
I  am  anjdoua  to  procure  S  list  of  all  taat  he  ^d  in 
this  way,     Can  any  of  youi  readers  asust  me  F 

Young  Buckley  was  a  <proUgi  of  the  well-known 
Qreek  scholar,  Qeorge  Burgee.  Qdeeist. 

[The  Rev.  Theodore  Alois  WiUiam  Buckley,  MA, 
late  one  of  tbe  cheplaias  of  Christ  Chnreh,  Oxford,  wis 
bom  July  37,  1S2S,  and  died  Jan.  30,  1866.  He  wis 
buried  in  Woking  cemetery  with  Uiis  inscription  on  bis 

"Tbe  love  of  leamiag^made  thee  early  known. 
Bat  Death  as  early  strnck  the  flower  lialf-Uown.' 

The  works  he  edited  or  translated  atteet  his  diligence, 
accaraey,  and  accomplishments  as  a  "'■—'—'  scbolu'.  A 
list  of  them  (too  long  for  quotation)  is  printed  In  the 
Gtnt.  Mag.  for  March,  1866,  with  some  acsoont  of  bi> 
personal  history.] 

"Cawbob  illssub."— "What  femily  used  the 
motto  "  Candor  illeesus  "  in  the  early  part  of  the 
seventeenth  century,  say  from  1620  to  1630  P 

Geo.  WiLLiun. 

Daitdx  Rolls. — I  am  a  maker  of  dandy  rolls. 
Can  any  of  your  correspondents  tell  roe  the  mean- 
ing or  derivation  of  the  adjective  in  this  case? 
I  sujipose  its  application  is  not  anterior  to  the 
makiDg  of  paper  by  machine.  E.  Aitm. 

EifGLiSH  Bible. — Will  one  of  your  learned 
correspondents  be  so  hind  as  to  favour  me  with 
dates  of  the  editions  of  the  English  Bible  pub- 
lished in  the  reign  of  King  James  Z.  ?  and  also  to 
inform  ma  which  is  the  most  authentic  history  of 
the  English  Bible  ?  E.  GEiynTBa. 

Molleeton  Hoose. 

[Tbe  following  list  of  the  English  Bible  printed  toi^L 
James  I.  is  taken  from  Bohn's  Innmda  and  the  Cata- 
logues of  the  British  Hiueom ;— Lond.it«  bbck  letter^ 


io-S-Tir,  Ju»b24,'T1.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


Ito  Md  8to  ;  1606,  Lond.  black  letter,  4ta ;  1606,  Lond. 
JtaandSvo;  1007,  Load.  foL;  1 607-8,  Lond.  4to  i  1608, 
Load.  4to  and  Svo  I  1609,  Loud.  4tot  16I0,Load.ft>L,lto, 
ud  Sroi  Edinb.  lol;  Dovij,  2  vols.  4bi ;  1610-11, 
Lond.4to;  1611-1613,  the  Aathorised,  Load.  foL,  4to, 
Sea,  and  IZmo)  1612,  the  Royal,  4to  i  1613,  Lond.  foL 
■Dd4to;  1613-14,  Load.  4to  I  1614,  Lond.  8ro;  1616, 
Load.  4to  1  1616,  Lond.  foL ;  1617,  land.  fuL,  8to,  and 
l-jmo;  1618,Lond.l2aii);  16I9,Laad.4taHndSvo ;  1630. 
Land.  12010;  162 [,  Lond.  4to  and  8to  i  1C22,  Lond.  4to  i 
1622-3,  Land.  4to  ;  1625,  Load.  4to.  Consult  alao  tb« 
Lials  by  Fettigrew,  Cottoa,  and  L»  Wilson. 

Tbe  aCaDdaiS  nark  on  The  Hiiloru  of  lit  Bible  is  that 
by  Tbomis  Stackbouse,  especially  the  editioos  corrected 
.  and  improved  hy  Dr.  George  Gleig  (Lond.  3  vols.  4to, 


1817),  Mid  that  by  Dr.  Dewar  (aia^oi 

1846, 18S0).  The  foUowiag  workB  may  also  be  profitably 

coiunlted:-Cl.)  A   Gevral  Surety  of  Vie  Bitlory^af 


may  also  I 

1.™  of  a, 

during  tiiefiril  four  Cen 

.  1866,  8vo!  and  by  tb. 

B  author  (2.)  A  Generai  Vicv  of  (Ac  Hiilory  of  At 

EnidiiA  BibU,  1668,  Svo.  To  which  may  be  added  Dr. 
Wm.  Smith'!  SMeafl  Old  and  Ifea  TaCmnait  Bators, 
2  vob.  1866-6.] 

"  The  Fottb  List  TnraaB." — A  Ute  acquieitioD 
to  mr  libr&n'  ia  J^nu  on  iAe  Four  Latt  Thmgi  .- 
vis.  Death,  Judgmmt,  Hell,  Heaven,  X2iao,  pp.  122, 
Belswoith,  1706.  In  the  catalogue  of  the  collec- 
tion it  came  &om  it  ia  called  Green's;  but  on 
looking  up  that  Dome  I  find  the  Four  Lcat  TMagt 
<i(  the  Rev.  T.  Greene,  Biahop  of  £lj,  are  in  pnwe. 
John  Bunjan  wrote  a  boot  in  verae  under  the 
titJe,  hut  it  ia  not  his;  nor  ia  it  The  Four  ImO. 
Thing»  of  Dr.  Trapp.  "  The  Author  to  his  Bixike, 
in  Imitation  of  Orid/'introdncea  himself  and  work 
in  thirtj-two  lines,  beg^nnin;; — 

"  Oa,  little  book,  whilst  I  lament 
Hy  wretched  bte  and  baniahment," — 
and  ending — 

"  bat  keen  my  name 
From  tbe  maUdoua  bteaUi  of  Fame." 
A  prohihiUon  which,  considering  the  time  of  day,- 
tbe  posseaaor  of  the  secret  niaj  without  anj  breadi 
of  confidence 


w  reveal. 


A.G. 


Hbuooabalttb. — Upon  what 

that,  or  for  what  pnrpoee  did,  "  Helio){abalus  col- 
lect ten  thousnott  pounds  weight  of  cobwebs  in 
Kome  "  P  as  I  have  juat  found  stated  on  the  an- 
thority  of  Lampridius  in  an  edition  of  the  works 
of  Horace.  W.  P. 

[The  rollowliu;  passage  occnrs  In  the  lift  of  Helloga- 
balm  t>y  Lampridius: — "Jocabatar  sane  its  cum  serris, 
QteoajubeRt  mUlenapondaaibiataneanim  dereTre,pn>- 
pwito  pnemio ;  eollegineqae  dicitur  decern  milUa  pondo 
eraneamm,  dtcens  et  bloc  iotelligendam  qnam  magna 
csset  Roma,"] 

UsRAUtic. — Can  any  readers  of  "  N,  4  Q."  in- 
form ma  to  whom  the  crest  of  a  lion  rampant 
holding  an  olive  branch  in  his  month  belongs  F 
also  a  coat  of  anna  with  a  coronet  and  two  chev- 
lonela  P  Also,  I  am  desirous  of  ascertaining 
antecedents  of  a  family  named  Oreenoway  living 
near  London  1630  to  164a     The  fiunily  was  con- 


nected with  that  of  Millet.  Any  information 
respecting  the  above  will  greatW  oblige  H.  A. 
Bihtbbidoe,  24,  Russell  Road,  Kenmngton. 

Ho&£. — I  shall  be  much  obliged  if  any  of  your 
correspondents,  learned  in  ritual  matters,  can  tell 
me  in  what  part  or  parts  of  a  HS.  Book  of  Hours 
to  look  for  the  difierences  which  distinguish  one 
Use  from  anothM,  as  the  Use  of  Sarum  from  the 
Use  of  Rome  or  Paris.  I  have  one  bef<^  me  in 
which  there  are  no  words  snch  as  we  fluently 
find — "  Incipiunt  Hors  b,  t.  K.  secundum  usum 
"  curiffl,"  or  the  like.    The  workmanship 


mund  the  king  which  are,  I  suppose,  distinctively 
British  ;  but  the  fact  that  there  are  large  minia- 
tures of  St  George  and  the  nuurtyrdom  of  Sf. 
Thontas  of  Canterbury  nught  lead  one  to  conjee* 
ture  that  if  one  knew  where  to  look  for  the  proof 
the  volume  might  be  found  to  be  a  Sarum  one. 
Henbt  H.  Otbbs. 

r  We  are  Indebted  to  a  kiod  Mend  for  the  followiDg 
reply  to  our  correapondent's  query : — 

"The  particular  Uee  after  which  the  Menoicript  Hours 
were  written  is  to  be  looked  for  at  the  commencement. 
When  not  thus  apedSed,  tbe  diocese,  monastic  order,  and 
even  the  cbnrch  and  monastery  where  it  was  recited,  may 
be  gathered  from  the  saints  named  in  the  Calendar,  the 
Commemoratioiui,  and  the  Litanlie  Sanctdrnm.  The 
Samm  bours  of  tbe  Blessed  Virgin  Mary  differed  from 
Uie  Roman  la  psalms  and  lessoos.  At  preeeot  theRomaa 
is  alone  in  nse.  Conanlt  also  Di  Officto  Patvo  B.  Maria 
Virymii;  Radulph,  Decaa.  Tongres.,  Be  Gmoiiuni  Ob- 
ininiiha,  propoeitia  21,  at  p.  1146  of  Melchior  Hittorpius, 
De  Divhai  CathoUc.  Eccl.  Omciit,  Farii,  fbL  1623.— 
H.  C"] 

AIONOUENT  OF  SiB  PziGR  LSLT  BT  OlBBOKS.— 
It  u  stated  in  the  Art  Journal  for  January  1865 
that  Sir  P.  Lely  was  buried  in  the  church  of  St. 
Panl's,  Covent  Garden,  on  Dec.  7,  1680,  by  torch- 
light. He  left  one  hundred  pounds  for  a  monu- 
ment, which  was  executed  by  Orinling  Gibbons. 
The  fire  of  1705  destroyed  the  church.  Does  any 
drawing  or  engraving  of  this  monument  exist  F 
John  Piobot,  Jitk. 

UABDintT  Dbk. — Near  Marbary  Hall,  Cheshire, 

a  knoll  or  tumulus  crowned  with  troes,  and  a 
stone  baaiing  the  inscription :  — 
"  Hen  lies  Marbniy  Dun, 
The  beat  mare  that  ever  m." 

Where  shall  I  find  the  true  history,  or  even  the 
legend  of  this  famous  horse,  which  ia  said  to  have 
been  buried  with  silver  shoes  F  U.  D. 

Mart  Riire'e  Pkophect.— In  Langius'  preface 
to  that  curious  alchemistical  book  Am  Open  En- 
tranoe  U>  the  Shut  Palace,  there  ia  an  allusion  to 
"  Mary  Rant  (an  Englishwoman),  who  by  inward 
revelation  promised  concerning  the  making  of  . 
gold,  that  it  wDotd  become  vulgar  or  common  ™  )  I  p 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


536 


the  yew  1661."    Who  wu  she,  <uiii  where  ia  the 

Cphscy  to  be  seen  P    Siimlsr  antidpitioM  have 
n  ascribed  to  msiiTTnodem  phyricMts. 

C.  Ellja  Bkowhb. 
[Msry  Rant's  wort  U  extMmely  rare,  uid  b  Dot  to  lie 
fonod  in  the  Britisb  MoEeoni  ur  the  Bodleian.    It  h  en- 
titled Oaci*  Apooalaptica  Maria  Baatt,  Angt.  qiuc  avrt 
fadnnim  Brevi  Vntgartm    futurum  fort,  itt  polt  """" 

Louis  Viveb.— Who  -was  J.  H.,  the  tranBlator 
of  ViTes"  Commentary  on  the  treatise  of  Saint 
Angastina,  "  De  Cmtate  Dei "  i"  In  what  woriM 
can  I  find  any  information  as  to  Ms  (ViTea') 
aoioum  in  England  ?        Em.  Viitokm  BiTsecaB. 

[J.  H.,  [he  traiulator  of  Vi»ea'  Commettlarj  (IfllO)  was 
John  HeileT,  of  Kiominuel  CoUego,  CsmbridgB,  of  wbom 
wme  noticie  will  be  found  ia  "N.  &  Q."  8«  S.  li.  208, 
3S4,4;9;  iiLSSa.  TbebertaccountDf  John^Louia  Vires 
(ob,  1S40)  il  Chs  Minoin  jur  la  Vie  tt  Iti  EcriU  deJcan- 
Louii  Pirei,  par  A.-J.  Namecil^  printed  in  Memoira 
Couroniut  iU  eAeademie  RayaJi  da  Scitiuta  tl  Stltn- 
Ltttrtt  dt  Braxdia,  ISiHoattxr.  Consult  also  Wood'e 
Alhemt  OfooMuct  by  Blin,  i.  141,  *ad  Fiddea,  Lift  of 
Cardinal  JTolte^,  ed.  1TS4,  p.  £18.] 

PBRiomoAifl.— A  lady  will  be  obliged  to  you 
or  youi  conespondentg  for  '.informatiDn  aa  to  the 
names  and  numbers  of  periodicals  published  in 
Great  Britun,  London  excepted. 

[Our  correapondent  will  find  a  coplona  list  of  maga- 
zlnea,  leviewa,  and  periodicals  paUiabed  in  the  Ucilfld 
Elnsdom  aod  the  Briti^  Ida  in  the  HariBafier  Prat 
Dirtclory  for  1871  (London,  a  Mitchell  i  Co,  Bed 
Limi  Court,  EleetStreet,  price  aneflarin),pp.l2S  to  135.] 

Wai.tos's  "  LiFB  OF  Da.  DtMTNB."— In  Wal- 
ton's Xi/e  of  Dr.  John  Donne  there  ia  an  extract 
from  a  letter  written  by  the  latter,  in  which  the 
following  pMsage  occurs ;  "  It  ia  now  tprmg,  and 
all  tiie  pleaeurea  of  it  displease  me  j  every  othw 
tree  blossoms  ^11  wither,"  &0.  The  date  of  the 
letter  is  Sept  7.  Can  any  of  your  readers  account 
for  this :-  Alpha. 

[  What  appears  at  odb  latter  In  the  Lift  tf  Dr.  Damtt 
consists  of  extracts  ttoju  several  ochars,  as  stated  by 
Walton  in  the  preceding  paragraph ;  "  Thus  he  did  be- 
moan himself ;  and  thus  in  other  &«erj."  Some  of  Ihe 
pasuges  ve  have  traced  ia  Donne's  LeHeri,  edit.  IGol, 
pp.  ae,  50,  51,  78,  &c] 

Philip  Williams's  Mbtaphok. — In  the  RecoU 
lections  nf  the  late  John  Adolpkut,  by  his  daugh- 
ter Mrs.  Henderson,  just  published,  are  many 
interesting  extracts  &om  his  diary.  In  one  dated 
Christmas  Day,  1840,  he  mentions  dining  in  the 
Inner  Temple  Hall  and  hearing — 

"A  Btrangely  mixed  metaphor  used  by  Phil.  Williams 
in  a  lecture  delivered  by  him  aa  Vinerian  Professor,  I 
believe.  It  wu  aomethlng  like  this:— 'Tbna  la  the 
stndcnt  launched  into  the  wide  ocean  of  the  Lavr  nithout 
mdder  or  compass,,  jumping  like  a  squirrel  fh>m  hough 
to  boDgh,  anil  endeavouring  to  fish  up  the  dl^oioted 
members  of  tha  polypna."— p.  216. 

I  remember  Phiiin  Williams,  K.C.,  lAout  thirty- 
five  years  ago,  as  the  tallest  man  at  the  bar.     ' 


[l»S.VILJtrBB84,'71. 


think  he  was  on  the  Western  Circuit  He  had 
little  practice,  but  was  reputed  to  be  a  competent 
lawyer  and  ^od  scholar.  He  held  the  Vinariui 
Profeaeorahip  at  Oxford,  and  was  so  well  aatiafied 
with  his  Inauguial  Lecture  that  he  hadafew  copies 
printed  for  private  distribution.  Lord  Denmark 
received  one,  and  told  me  the  metaphor,  whidi 
was  so  atrilmig  that  I  wrote  it  down,  and  asked 
him  if  I  had  it  correctly.  Ha  arid  yes,  and  ofiered 
to  lend  me  his  copy  fot  perusal,  but  as  he  aud 
there  was  nothing  eue  remarkable  in  it  I  did  riot 
trouble  him.    My  vetMon  ia : — 

"  Launched  in  the  wide  oceaa  of  le^  atndy  wtUrant 
rudder  or  cwmpass.  be  leaps  like  a  aqoiind  ftom  twig  ft 
twig,  vainly  endeavouring  to  collect  the  scattered  limba 
of  Bppoljtiu." 

I  commend  these  variations  to  the  eonaideration 
of  those  who  believe  that  the  toit  of  Homer  waa 
preeerved  in  its  purity  through  ao  many  centmiea 
before  the  invention  of  letters.  Should  eny  reader 
of  "  N.  &.  Q."  possess  a  copy  of  the  lecture,  I  shall 
be  glad  to  have  the  exact  paeeaige,  if  it  diffeiB  from 
the  above.  An  ImrEB  Twar'i.iit. 


astpiftc 

THK  "FETTER-LOCK"  AS  A  COGNIZANCE  OP 
THE  LONGS  Of  WRAXHALL. 
(4»  8.  vii.  423,  486.) 
The  communication  by  Ihe  Ticar  of  Bradfbrd- 
on-Avon  about  a  monument  in  Sou^  Wraxhall 
church,  CO.  Wilts,  will  not  fail  to  catch  the  atten- 
tion of  any  Wiltshire  archieologist  acqasdnted 
with  the  place;  for,  as  he  most  truly  88.ya,it  has 
been  for  a  long  time  a  very  great  puzzle.  It  may 
be  well  just  to  mention,  in  aid  of  any  reader  of 
"  N.  k  Q,"  who  may  vrish  to  try  his  hand  at  an 
opinion,  that  small  engravings  of  it  (with  an 
elaborato  description  hj  the  late  0.  E.  Lwig,  Esq.) 
may  be  found  in  the  Geni.  M<u-,  June,  183G^ 
p.  688;  also  in  Walker's  South  Wraxht^  {v.  6), 
and  in  WiltAire  CoUectione,  Aubrey  and  Jat^n, 
plate  ii.  and  p.  23.  The  effigy  ie  certainly  that  of  a 
lady,  apparently  the  wife  of  a  "  Long."  That  the 
"  fetter-lock  "  badge  on  the  cornice  and  panels  had 
refersice  to  the  tenure  of  the  manor  of  Draycoto 
Oeme  (a  manor  some  miles  off,  and  in  a  difieient 
Hundred  iromthatin  which  South  Wraxhall  lies) 
was  John  Aubrey's  story,  not  mine.  At  the  time 
I  wrote  the  observations  on  Aubrey  which  the 
Vicar  quotes  from  me,  the  matter  had  not  been  so 
fully  inquired  into  aa  it  lies  been  rince  both  by 
him  and  o^ers;  and  I  therefore  did  not  feel 
myself  quite  in  a  portion  to  contradict  or  corieet 
Aubrey  (who  lived  two  hundred  yeeie  ago),  except 
on  a  minor  point.  It  is  now,  I  tbink,  almoat  cer- 
tain that  the  "fettw-lock"  bodge  ha*  nothing  to 


4*s.yiljcbe24.7i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


537 


do  with  the  tenure  ot  the  maoor  of  Diayoote 
Cerne. 

That  this  badge  was  more  likely  to  have  been 
adopted  by  the  Long  famUy,  as  an  emblem  of 
tbffli  heteditary  office  of  "  Bedell  or  Buliff  of  the 
handled  of  ]&»dford,"  tmder  Shaftesbory  monas- 
tery, IB  a  good  ides  of  the  Yicar's  own,  and  it  is 
the  best  aolntioii  of  the  difficulty  yet  pot  forth. 
He  irill,  I  ant  nue,  not  object  to  my  makin^g  otte 
leaaxk  ddod  it,  viz.  that,  jrom  tbe  authorities  he 
quotes,  ^ere  seem  to  have  been  Ivo  quantitiM  of 
lands  attached  to  the  office  of  Bedell :  erne  whidi 
passed  thtoogh  the  hands  cf  "William  Bedell, 
A.D.  1360,"  to  "  John  Long,  Esq.,  A.D.lflSO";  the 
other  through  those  of  the  families  of  "  Ford"  to 
"Beilegh"  (aboTe,  p.  425,  coL  2).  Now  that 
this  second  parcel  of  ground,  with  office  of 
Bedell  attached,  ever  came  to  the  Long  tandly,  1 
think  doubtful}  because  the  Ford  and  Berlegh 
estates  in  that  part  of  Wilts  and  Somentet  cer- 
ttunly  passed  to  a  different  family — the  Huaseys ; 
from  Uiem  to  Sir  Wm,  Button  of  Alton,  tww 
Te]»eBented  by  Heneage  of  Compton  Basset  Sup- 
posing that  somehow  or  other  these  Berlegh  lands 
iad  come  to  the  Longs,  they  most  have  been 
inrrignifigant,  in  quantity,  Qot  euough  to  constitute 
what  is  generally  understood  Yy  "an  heiress"; 
to  say  nouiing  of  the  fact,  that  of  any  such  heiress 
there  is  no  record,  nor  even  tradition,  in  the 
"  Long  "  family. 

The  Vicar  ^  Bradford  suggeata  that  the  arms 
on  the  tomb  may  perhapa  bear  out  his  conjecture 
about  an  heiress  oT  tbe  name  of  Berlegh,  or  Bar- 
ley. The  question  turns  upon  tbe  Ist  and  4lh 
quartering  of  the  mnister  (the  wife's)  side  of  the 
snield  carded  b^  the  figure  of  the  angel.  This 
quartering  has  hitherto  been  commonly  supposed 
to  be  the  arms  of  Berkeley.  But  as  the  Vicar 
counts  "  only  nine  crosses"  upon  it, "  whereas  every 
Berkeley  coat  has  ten,"  and  as  be  considers  the 
change  on  the  chevron  "to  be  fleura-de-Iys  as  likely 
as  rosee  or  plates,  which  tno  latter  no  Berkeley 
coat  has,"  he  is  led  to  think  that  the  quartering 
maybe  the  arms  of  "Barley  or  Berlegh";  because 
Borke's  Armnn/  gives,  under  the  name  of  "  Bar- 
ley," "nine  crosslets  fitch^,  and  on  a  chevron 
oiee  fleurs-de-Iys." 

la  reply  to  this  there  is,  first,  this  objection : 
tbe  crosses  given  in  Burke  to  "Barley  "  are  croeaes 
jUcJtle  (pointed  at  tbe  foot),  whereas  those  on  the 
monument  are  asanredly  crosses  paUe — and  such 
are  Berkeley  crosses. 

Agwn :  as  to  the  number  "  nine."  Ten  is  cer- 
tainly the  proper  number  on  the  shield  of  the 
principal  house  of  Berkeley;  butPapwortb  {Or- 
dinary of  Bj-ilish  Armoriab)  and  other  authonties 
show  that  the  number  ten  was  not  uniformly 
adhered  to  by  all  the  hranchei  of  the  house  of 
Berkeley.  We  fmd  "semto  of  crossea"  or  "field 
cmnlly''  (where  tbe  numbra  is  indefinite),  and 


othorT«rietioa,a«"tliree,""ait""BeTOn,"  "eight," 
and  "nine"  (FapworiL,  pp.  413, 413).  So  that 
had  there  been  only  mne  at  Soatb  Wraxhsll,  it 
might  still  have  been  a  variety  of  Berkeley;  but 
I  think  the  Vicar  will  find,  st  his  next  visit  to 
tbe  church,  that  he  has  counted  wnrag.  I  had 
often  examined  the  mwmment,  but  (since  reading 
his  communication)  I  examined  it  again,  taking 
with  me  other  eyes  beudee  my  own;  and  we 
declare  "ten  crosses  patt^e,  without  a  doubt" 
The  quarter  No.  1  is  damaged  and  indistinct ;  bat 
tJie  quarter  No.  4  contains  undeniably  ten,  tax  in 
chiefand  four  in  base. 

As  to  the  charge  on  the  chevTOD,  whether  Roeea, 
I^tes,  or  FlaurH-d«-lye.  Generally  speaking,  the 
Berkeley  chevron  was  plain ;  but  (as  before  stated) 
the  subordinate  bouses  nsed  distinctions.  Boutell 
{Heraldnf,  p.  172)  and  Papworth  (p.  424)  name 
"roses";  the  latter  (p.  609)  "three  torteauzes" 
(which  are  merely  plates  gules).  On  the  glass 
windows  of  old  Bouth  Wraxhall  manor  house, 
Aubrey  copied  three  varieties  (see  WHUkire  Col- 
ieaUmu,  plate  ii.  Nos.  16  and  17;  also  plate  iii. 
No.  82):  one  chevron  "plain,"  another  "ermine" 
(for  BeikelOT  of  Botetourt,  in  Edmondson's  Baro- 
aajfium,v.4i)),  and  another chanedvrith  "three 
torteauiee  or  plates."  Boutell  also  gives  an  in- 
stance of  "three  fleniB-de-lys  "  on  the  chevron  of 
Berkeley ;  so  that  whether  they  be  Roses,  Platee, 
or  Fleurs-de-lys  on  the  monument,  any  one  of  them 
is  to  be  found  (aceordio^  to  tbe  authorities  above 
BMned)  on  Berkeley  shields.  But  upon  tbe  late 
OBTflAil  inspection  (just  referred  to) my  compmion 
■nd  nyself  were  decidedly  of  opinion  that  l^e 
'  chaive  "  was  never  meant  for  Flenr»-de-lys,  nor 
as  I  fomierly  thouEbt,  and  indeed  once  printed) 
'or Plates,  bat  oerbunly  for  "£oMt."  This  is  just 
me  of  those  vera  difficult  tmHut'ue  of  an  old  worn- 
out  st<me  which  would  puxxle  the  whole  Royal 
Society  of  Antiquaries  iteelf,  every  member  with 
his  beirt  spectacles  on,  to  pronounce  for  cert^n 
whether  the  thing  is  thit  or  that.  All  that  my 
friend  and  I  have  to  say,  ver»m  tbe  Vicac  of 
Bradford,  is,  that  «*"  go  in"  ior"  Soiet"\ 

But,  there  remuns  upon  this  Wraxhall  monu- 
ment one  peculiarity  (not  hitherto  taken  notice 
of,  BO  far  as  I  am  aware),  which,  if  admitted 
to  be  correct,  ought  to  go  a  long  way  towards 
determining  the  lady's  effigy  to  be  that  of  a 
Berkeley.  Infront(seethe  engraving  above  referred 
to)  are  two  large  lions  as  snpportne,  the  nnitltr 
•MS  of%  bemg  eromted  Tbe  crown  is  a  veij 
clumsy  one,  quite  overlapfong  the  animal's  head ; 
but  its  dumamen  is  the  more  useful  as  showing 
(to  our  eyes  at  least)  that  upon  tbe  dexter  lion 
there  has  never  been  any  crown.  Now,  it  is 
curious  enough  tiiat  (as  may  be  seen  in  any  lllu»- 
tiated  Peerage)  the  "  supporters  "  <rf  Berkeley  are 
two  lions,  the  eimiter  one  onfy  crowned,  |  i 

I  observed  above  that,  in  the  family  of  Long  of '  |  C 


A  letter  printed  in  Kitnber's  BaronOa^  (ii.  366), 
Sir  JameB  Long  of  Draycote,  writing  in  A  J).  1688, 
spei^of — 

*■  an  ■ncestoT  irLo  married  Berkdey,  of  BeverstoD,  and 
an  bdr«ss;  bv  irbom  w«  quarter  FiUhardlog's  coat, 
now  Earls  oTBirkUr,  «itll  diitiaction  of  three  roMS,  on 
the  chevciDiii  batweea  the  croaaea  pat^a." 
In  support  of  this  tradition,  the  arms  of  Berkelej 
(according  to  Aubrej'a  dmwioBs)  were  in  hia  time 
on  the  <iTiDdowa  of  South  WnihaU  old  manor 
houae ;  and  they  are  still  to  be  seen  on  a  tomb  of 
Long  in  Draycote  Came  church ;  also,  impaled 
with  Long  (let  the  Vicar  note  this),  next  to  r 
shield  of  Leng  impaling  Fopham,  on  a  window  in 
the  ball  of  Locock  Abbej ;  also,  with  the  arms  of 
Long  and  the  "  fetter-lock"  badge,  on  the  font  in 
Friston  church,  near  Bath.  All  this  le&da  me  to 
think  that  the  lady  on  tbe  Wrazhall  t«mb  must 
have  been  a  Berkeley. 

And  why  not  a  Berkeley  of  Be  verstone,  accord- 
ing to  the  family  tradition  mentioned  above  in 
Sir  James  Long's  letter  P  For  it  helps  my  notion 
of  the  case,  to  say  that  Walter  Lord  HuuEerford, 
KG.,  Treasurer  of  England  Ump.  Hen.  VI.,  who 
according  to  Camden  "preferred"  one  of  the 
early  Loncs  to  a  "  good  mairia^,"  had  himself 
married  Eleanor,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Berkeley 
of  this  very  Beverstone  (a  castle,  the  ruins  of 
which  are  still  remaining  near  Tetbury,  Co.  Glou- 
cester). In  deeds  in  my  possession  relating  to 
this  Lord  Hungerford.  of  A.11. 1430  and  thereabouts, 
Ifind  "Robert  Long  as  his  feoffee  and  confiden- 
tial friend,  associated  with  Wm.  Lord  Botreaui, 
Sir  Humphrey  Stafford,  Sir  John  Stourton,  and 
others.  IbebeTe  this  "Eobert  Long"  to  be  the 
earliest  to  whom  that  pedigree  has  been  traced 
with  certainty.  He  was  MP.  for  Wilts  in  1433, 
and  ea  the  names  of  his  two  wives  are  on  reoord,! 
would  suggest  (and  it  ia  simply  a  suggestion)  that 
it  may  have  been,  not  he,  but  his  father,  who  was 
the  "  Long,"  said  to  have  been  brought  out  by  the 
then  all  powerful  influence  of  the  Hungerforda  in 
the  county  of  Wilto.  Lord  Hungerford,  the  Trea- 
surer, may  have  introduced  lAe  father  to  Bever- 
atone  Castle,  there  to  take  unto  himself  a  wife 
out  of  the  same  nest  of  young  ladies  from  which 
he  had  chosen  one  for  himself  It  may  assist  the 
solnlioQ  of  this  obscure  question  to  add,  that  this 
Eleanor  Berkeley  (Countesa  of  Arundel,  and 
widow  of  Lord  Hungerford),  being  sister  of  Sir 
Maurice  Berkeley  of  Beverstone,  by  her  will, 
A.I1. 1465  (Nicolas'  Tetl.  Vet.,  p.  279),  bequeathed 
money  to  Ttaomaa  Berkeley,  a  vounger  son  of  her 
brother  Sir  Maurice;  and  there  is  a  Thomas 
Berkeley  named  in  a  pedigree  by  La  Neve  (Sort*., 
voL  i.  Coll.  Arm.)  as  the  husband  of  "Ehiabeth 
Seymer,"  granddaughtet  of  "Edmund  Seymer, 


Berkeley  quarterinK  Seymer. 

Of  "  sum  lande  had  for  Long,"  as  Leland  a&js, 
"  by  Hungreforde's  procuration,"  I  hare  one  or  two 
nobcea,  hut  not  at  South  WrazhalL  The  Hun- 
gerfords  had  nothing  in  South  Wrazhall  except 
nzteen  acres  adjoining  Atworth,  and  an  "advow- 
»on  worth  61."  The  first  notice  I  have  (J  tlie 
Longa  having  land  in  Wraxhall  is  in  the  Kolls  of 
Parhament  (it.  467),  which  contun  — 

■•  II  *  12  H.  TI.  (A.o.  14S3).  A  Pedtioa  to  the  Ctvwn 
Ihiiii  th«  Abbtm  and  Convtint  of  Shaftaaborf  [to  wliaai 
Wraxhall  belonged]  and  Robert  Long  for  LiocoK  to  Bofaer 
Long  U>  give  to  toe  Abbes  and  Uonvent  lands  worth 
I  marks  per  onnnm  in  Attewsrde,  BntdeTDrdc,  snd  Wrax- 
hall, wbich  he  held  under  the  Abbess  and  Convent  in 
exchange  for  certain  other  lands  and  tenements  io  Wrox- 
bill  and  Bradeford  vgrth  x  marks  per  uinum,  to  be 
pvai  to  the  said  Robert  Long  b;  tba  Abbess  and  Con- 
vaDt  in  exchange  for  ever  by  the  lame  service  as  he  lield 

I  had  always  supposed  that  the  Longs,  haring 
been  tenants  of  Wraxhall  manor  under  the  abbey 
of  Shaftesbury,  had  paid  for  it  at  the  dissolution ; 
but  a  novel  ide»  has  occurred  to  me,  which  I 
throw  out  for  the  consideration  of  the  Vicar  of 
Bradford.  He  will  find  io  Hutchins's  Dortet  ^Ist 
edit.,  App.  to  Toh  ii.  pp.  616,  617)  several  noticw 
of  property  belong^g  m  maietiet  to  the  monastery 
of  Shaftesbury  and  the  Berkeley  family.  Is  it 
posnble  that  the  Berkeleya  may  also  have  had 
some  nioiett/  inlereel  in  Wraxhall  which,  by  the 
marriage  with  a  lady  of  the  Berkeley  family,  c&me 
to  the  Longs  F  If  this  point  could  be  establi^ed, 
my  explanation  of  the  South  Wraxall  "  di£cul^ 
would  stand  thus:  viz.  That  the  lady  was  a 
Berkeley  of  Beverstone;  that  the  Berkeleys  had 
some  joint  interest  with  Sfaafteshury  Abbey  in 
the  manor  of  Wraxhall :  That  Lord  Hunprford 
(ftom  his  own  wife's  family)  had  (delicntely)  ob- 
tained a  partoer  for  Master  Long  (the  fatAer  of 
Robert,  the  M.P.  for  Wilts,  m  a.d.  1433) ;  and 
that,  by  some  arrangement  with  the  Abbey,  the 
Berkeleya'  joint  interest  in  Wraxhall  was  finally 
severed  from  that  of  the  Abbey,  and  become  the 
lady's  fortune.  In  this  way  the  meaning  of  the  very 
cuiBor^  notes,  both  of  Leland  and  Camden,  about 
the  onginal  rise  of  a  well-known  Wiltshire  family 
still  owners  of  Wraxhall  manor,  would  be  made 
out;  and,  after  four  hundred  years'  interval,  it 
would,  at  last,  appear  how  "  Long  "  was  not  only 
"  preferred  to  a  good  marriage,"  but  also  "  had  eam 
lande  by  Hungreforde's  procuration." 

With  the  small  exceptions  of  such  trifling 
matters  as  Abuiy  and  Stonebenge,  I  do  not  know 
anything  in  Wiltshire  that  has  tormented  the 
archteologists  of  the  county  moi«  than  this  "  South 
Wriohall  monument." 

J.  E.  Jacksox,  Htm.  Canon  of  Boatol. 

L^h  Delamei^  Cbippcnlum. 


DigiiizedbyCjOOy  IC 


**a.vn.  Jmwa*,7i.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


PLICA  POLONICA. 
(4'»  S.  Tii  475.) 

I  saw  a  womui  suffering  from  this  affection  in 
Berlin  in  ]858,  and  I  heara  a  clinical  lectura  de- 
livered npoQ  the  case  bj  Prof,  Baienspning,  a 
mBo  of  high  reputatdoii.  Her  hair  was  matted 
«ad  felted  together  in  the  moat  iutricAte  manner, 
and  foIm(^d  a  kind  of  n&tural  pad  or  cnshion  several 
inches  in  thiclmesa  and  B;rnuuetricBll;  placed  upon 
the  to^  of  her  head,  but  projecting  beyond  it  to 
ft  considerable  distance  all  round.  A  milkmaid 
would  have  found  snch  a  pad  inralnable.  Be- 
Jiind,  however,  the  hair  was  gathered  into  two 
ttiiB,  one  of  wMcb  was  three  or  four  inches  long, 
and  the  other  perhaps  ten,*  Dr.  BaienspninK 
bade  us  particimrlj  note  that  the  hur  for  an  ini£ 
And  a  half  or  two  inches  above  the  scalp  was  not 
matted  together,  but  that  for  this  distance  every 
individual  hair  was  normal  and  free,  whilst  there 
was  no  exudation  of  any  kind  visible,  and  thescalp 
itself  presented  a  perfectly  natural  appearance. 
When  the  btur  was  taken  hold  of,  there  was  no 
complunt  of  tenderness,  either  in  the  hair  itself  or 
in  the  scalp. 

Dr.  Barouprung  then  told  us  that  he  had  re- 
«enil5  been  to  Prussian  Poland  for  the  express 
purpose  of  investigating  the  so-called  disease: 
that  be  bad  seen  some  hundreds  of  caaes  of  it,  ana 
that  they,  one  and  all,  had  presented  the  same 
characters  as  the  case  then  before  us.  Some 
writers  had  described  the  Plica  as  an  affection  of 
the  scalp  which  furnished  an  exudation  glueing 
the  hairs  together,  but  this  we  had  seen  to  be  in- 
correct Others  considered  it  to  be  a  disease  of 
the  hairs  themselveL  from  which  a  glutinous 
matter  ezoded ;  but  this  he  had  never  found  to  be 
the  case.  Otheis,  again,  regarded  the  presence  of 
fungi  as  the  real  source  of  the  whole  mischief  but 
no  TuDgi  had  ever  been  discovered  b^  him.  In 
Poland  he  had  found  the  general  opinion  to  be 
that  there  was  an  internal  disease,  the  Plica- 
polonica  disease  (Weichselzopfkrankheit),  of 
which  the  matted  and  felted  state  of  the  hsir  was 
merely  the  outward  and  viable  sign,  or  rather  con- 
sUtuted  the  crisis.  Whenever,  therefore^nybody 
living  in  a  part  of  Poland  where  the  Plica  was 
common  felt  a  little  out  of  sorts,  het  immediately 
mshed  to  the  conclunon  that  he  dtber  was  going 
to  have,  or  bad  already  got,  the  Plica-polonica 
disease.  He  would  then  go  to  some  old  woman, 
shepherd,  or  parson  in  the  neighbourhood  who 
had  ^ined  a  reputation  for  skill  in  the  treatment 
of  this  affection  (for  medical  men  in  Poland  seldom 


*  HencatheGsnDsntuuneof  thsdlwiss,  Wdekidiof^i 
Waehta  nuaiiiDg  TiituU,  and  Zapf,  piEtsil.  though  it 
would  sson  that  die  fint  part  of  the  word  la  sometimes 
written  WUMd. 

t  Or  she.    Both  mslei  and  females  appear  to  vaf&z 


have,  the  di^saded  disease.    A  lock  of  h(ur  (dog's 

or  horse's)  would  then  be  nven  him,  with  direc- 
tions to  wear  it  next  his  s£in,  either  on  his  cheat 
or  in  one  of  his  armpits,  for  a  certain  length  of 
time.  If  the  lock  of  hiur,  at  the  expiration  of  the 
lime,  was  found  to  have  become  tangled  and 
matted  (as  of  course  it  almost  invariably  wonld 
be  found,  in  conieq^uence  of  the  constant  friction, 
and  of  the  moisture  of  the_part8  in  which  the  hsir 
was  placed) — then  the  patient  was  declared  to  be 
suffering  &om  the  disease,  and  he  was  told  be 
could  not  be  cured  unless  the  disease  were  brought 
to  a  crisis — in  other  words,  unless  a  Plica  could 
be  produced  upoa  his  bead.  For  this  purpose  his 
hesid  was  kept  conttaniU/  covered  up,  his  hair  was 
never  cut,  and  sudori£cs  were  freely  administered ; 
so  that,  as  might  be  expected,  he  found  himself  ere 
long  in  poasaeaion  of  his  much-coveted  Plica.  But, 
when  he  had  it,  it  was  not  long,  the  professor  con- 
tinued, before  hequite  as  eagerlj  wished  to  get  rid 
of  it  again,  though  he  but  seldom  gave  effect  to  his 
wiflh,  OS  he  was  afraid  to  hove  the  msss  of  hwr  re- 
moved, lestthe  internal  disease  *  should  return  with 
redouUed  violence  and  kill  him.  Dr.  Bocensprung 
had  nevertheless,  he  said,  removed  the  hair  in 
several  cases  vrithout  the  occurrence  of  any  ill 
effects ;  he  had  always  token  the  precaution,  how- 
ever, of  cutting  off  the  hair  liCUe  by  little.  If 
this  account  of  the  disease  were  correct,  the  lec- 
turer continued,  it  was  evident  that  the  Plica 
could  be  produced  at  will,  and  accordingly  he  had 
succeeded  in  producing  it  in  several  of  Ms  hospital 
patients.  The  means  he  had  employed  were  pre- 
dsel^those  mentioned  above  as  adopted  in  Poland ; 
and  if  the  Plica  occurred  only  or  chiefly  in  Poland, 
it  was,  he  said,  merely  because  it  was  only  or 
chiefly  in  Poland  that  pains  were  taken  to  pro- 

In  concln^on,  Dr.  Barensprung  observed  that 
we  had  daily  before  oar  eyes  genuine  instances  of 
Plica,  although  we  were  probably  unaware  that 
they  were  such.  He  eJluded  to  the  matted  state 
of  the  hair  so  common  in  long-bured,  uncared-for 
dogs,  and  to  that  of  the  wool  in  sheep. 

If  this  is  the  true  view  of  the  matter— and  I 
believe  that  it  is  the  true  view— how  can  we 
account  for  the  fact  tba^  even  by  recent  eminent 
medical  writeis,t  the  hair  is  described  as  being 
glued  tc^ether  by  a  secretion  exuding  &om  the 
scalp ;  that  the  hair  and  scalp  are  said  by  one  or 


*  The  patient  whom  I  saw  complsined— slthoocb  she 
had  avery  floa  Plica,  snd  ought  to  nave  been  curaa— of  a 
nomber  M  aches,  pains,  diasgreeabla  lensatioa*  and  feel- 
ings, whlijk  Dr.  Blnaspnmg  observed  might  well  be  re- 
feited  to  hysteri*,  dyBpepaia,  or  both. 

t  See  DvnstfAt,  Maladiet  dc   la  Piau    n>sHs,  ISST, 

«.  E58),  sod  Htdmes'  Surgtrt  (London,  1864,  Iv.  762.) 
t  docs  not  appear  that  these  writers  lud  tymaelvas  aver  1 
SMoscsssofthedisaM.  ,7ea  b:JV~.C)Ot^lC 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


[4'»S.TII.  Jrai!4,'71. 


aOtex  of  tliew  wtit«n  to  become  acntelj  iennbU 
and  tender,  and  that  th«  (calp  u  said  to  "  blend  OB 
the  dightaet  touch  "  F  *  Dr.  BuMiipnmg  did  not 
enter  unmthie  part  of  the  qoeetjon;  be  contented 
biauelf  irith  dwcribing  wh&t  be  hiaiMlf  had  seen 
In  luindreda  of  cues.  Hj  awn  impression,  hov- 
sver,  is  tJwt  Mmetimee  an  ordiinrr  inflammfttoiy 
afiectioo  of  the  soalp  accompaniea  bj  ezadation 
(taA  u  Ecaama)  coems  oa  m  a  person  who  has 
airtmdi/  beoome  poaMased  of  a  Plica  in  the  way 
ftbare deacribedf ;  or,again,thstapeiaon,alreail7 
baring  such  an  nfieetiau  of  Uh  aatif,  fanriee  be 
kas  tM  nica  diBeaae,  and  allows  bia  bui  to  be- 
Mue  matted.  In  ather  eaae  there  -would  be  an 
•zndatiam  glueing  the  blurs  together,  and  there 
Toold  be  tenderness  of  the  aoup,  vnich  irould 
laadily  bleed ;  and  ^et  the  exudation,  the  tender- 
nesa,  and  the  bleeding  would  have  nothing  in  Hie 
worid  to  do  with  the  fbnnation  of  the  Plica. 

If  I  Bead  this  aecoont  of  Dr.  Bareupnmg's 
Tiow  J  to  "  N.  &  Q."  it  is  because  I  look  upon  it 
rather  as  tlie  recnd  of  a  singular  popolu  supersti- 
tion than  as  the  history  d  a  real  disease. 

F.  Chaxob. 


Jbi  this  disease  (Pol.  OwmAiee,  Oer.  Weiclud- 
titpf,  Jvdena^)  the  hair  also  is  characterised  by 
"Tsoal  IwgUi,  '     '  "  "  ' 


*n?in 


_  ..  „.  L,  I^  becoming  thickened,  and  l^ 

loss  of  Instre.    The  disease  is  not  confined  to  the 
scalp. 

"The  faair  kisee  tts  lostre,  and  anwais  thickeiKd, 
Btftenad,  or  dlitmded  by  a  c^atJooiu  fluid  of  a  reddi^  or 

brownish  colour. TLe  hair  ii  matted  or  igglati- 

nated  in  different  wayB^-Bomotimea  in  single  locks  of 

TMrioofl  thickneSfl  and  length,  Aflembling  ropes. 

OeesnonallT  ttie  hair  is  stock  together  In  one  m»a  or 
eve.    Id  other  fna^neei  It  Is  ftlted  into  a  mass  or  cake 

ef  Tarloni  siua. The  hair  often  acquires  >  great 

length.    Instances  of  its  reacbinz  the  length  of  some 
yards  have  been  adduced."  (Copaknd.) 

It  occurs  prindpftUy  in  Warsaw,  Cracow,  and 
Landomir ;  most  frequently  on  the  baaka  of  the 
Vistula  and  Dnieper.  It  is  also  found  in  Lithumia, 
Volhynia,  the  Ukraine,  Tartary,  and  Hungary ; 
but  is  very  rare  in  France,  Germany,  Holland  and 
Switzerland.  Ttiere  are  two  cases  of  plica  polo- 
nica  in  England :  the  first  in  the  middle  of  the 
last  century,  the  last  (discovered  by  Dr.  Beigil)  in 
1866.  A  memoir  of  these  is  recuded  m  ^liioto' 
phioal  Tnmtactioiu,  May  28, 171^  and  in  Tran- 


a  tendcncj  to  produce  socb  a  skin 


■  year— after  _  _., 

aopiouB  notes  at  the  tim^  and 


sadiont  of  Patholoj/iotd  Sodity,  vol.  xvii.  I  doubt 
much  whether  any  one  of  the  diseases  of  the  hair 
mentioned  by  Qftlen  is  represented  by  plica  polonictt. 
In  tliis  disease  I  have  seen  seTeral  q)ecuaeaa  of 
hair  in  which  thewhole  growth  (adhwed  together) 
has  been  remored  entiie.  K.  S.  Chabvock. 

Gray's  Inn. 

THE  TOADSrOHE. 
(4n>  S.  viL  324, 898,  484.) 
An  aeeoont  of  t^o  toadstone,  its  genontaon^ 
nature,  and  proparties,  will  \k  fcnmd  ander  ila 
Latin  appeUation — Bt^omtu  k^—ot  its  Tsrioiis 
synonyms  in  most  of  the  cM  treatises  De  Qemrni* 
si  Lapidibus,    The  following  paemgee  an  inteFest- 
'n  themselves,  and  mtij  save  H.  S.  C.  tbe  time 
trouble  of  aoeiaag  fat  raro  and  nnfiBdaUe 
booker— 

"  Borax,  Nosi,  Crapondfanu;  are  lynonymona  naims  of 
tb«  same  Mom,  wUcb  is  extracted  fron  a  toad.o'wUch 
then  an  two  spseiss  the  white,  iMA  b  As  best,  and 
rarely  found  ;  the  other  is  blaok  er  doa,  with  a  cant- 
lean  glow,  having  in  the  middle  the  similitode  of  an  tjt, 
and  must  be  taken  Out  while  tbe  d««d  toad  is  yet  pant- 
lag,  and  these  are  better  than  those  that  are  txtiaeted 
mm  It  after  a  long  ceatinaaiioe  In  &6  gnmnA.  Tti>y 
.waoderfnl  eficacj  in  pofsDna.    ForwhoeratMS 

poison, let  him  swaUow  this;  which  bcingdoiin, 

rolls  about  the  bow^  and  drives  oat  evsty  'p^sonoos 
loality  that  Is  lodged  in  the  intestines ;  and  than  paats 
bro'  the  fundament  and  is  pressrv'd.  It  la  an  ezeeUnt 
remedy  tor  the  Mtas  of  rqitUss,  and  takss  awi^  fswa. 
If  it  be  made  into  a  lotion  and  tatao,  it  is  a  gnat  bdp 
in  disorders  of  tbe  Momsch  and  nins;  andiome^itbas 
tbe  same  eObct  if  eairied  about  one."— The  Hunr  tf 
SlontM,  be.,  by  Camillas  Leonardus,  ALD.  London,  Bro, 
1760,  p.  77. 

I  transcribe  another  account  from  the  curious 
English  translation  of  tlie  Thaumalofraphia  S»' 
turaUt  of  Johannes  Joostouiu^  a  Polish  phym- 

"  Toads  produce  a  stone ;  with  their  own  image  some- 
times. It  never  grows  but  in  those  that  are  very  old, 
LUim.  I.  B.  tingvl.  In  the  ftmily  of  Lammu  there  is 
one  kept  I)iit  is  Ereater  than  a  hanl  ant.  LrtmBwa  de 
otcHiL  l  3.  c  80.  It  is  proved  to  dissolve  tomoon  IbaC 
arise  from  bitlngs  of  vstMuKnu  beasts,  if  yon  rab  it  oil 
often.  The  Lc^ii  Bufonua,  called  Gmfei-imu,  tbe  Swedes 
ciironidee  write  of  it,  it  weighed  6  pbysicall  pounds  and 
8  oimccs,  2  drams  lesse;  Craiiia  Annal.  Sierie.  1.  11, 
p.  B,  0.  87.  Tbe  words  are  theae  : — '  After  the  jeyftill 
Urtfa  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  of  the  Tlrmn  HmTi  the 
Mother  of  Qod,  anno  1473  -,  after  the  Urth  of  St.  Jolm, 
the  37  of  June,  B«rchtaldas  Orattaraa,  dwtUlag  then  at 
HoDstach,  in  the  afternoon  went  into  a  wood,  which  th^ 
call  the  Vale  of  DIpachia,  to  cat  poles  to  mate  hoops  fin- 
vcaseHs.  In  that  ^ace  he  beard  a  UsalBK  and  a  frsat 
noise  by  a  river  in  that  TSlley,  and  wban  be  stood  a  tarr 
off  to  see  what  the  matter  was,  he  saw  an  Incredible  heap 
of  serpent*  and  vipeis,and  toads  lying  twtaed  togetlwr- 
As  nen  as  ha  could  eeDjednre^  It  was  a  grsatig  quntity 
than  a  great  washing  tub  could  oont^n.  Se  was  ragfalal 
and  durst  so  no  neerer,  yet  he  cut  a  boDgh,  and  marked 
thepUce  there  hi  theconfinui  that  day  be  caate  twioe 
back,  and  beheld  that  conventicle  of  serpent^  and  he 


fouod  thai  dl,  ■UauN  Mgalbar  ap«o  >  haap :  vharefbrs 
ha  hit  Uun  and  went  homa,  concealing  tba  niattcr  Tot 
tbree  6aya  j  when  be  returned  to  the  Tood,  he  Gnad  that 


fonioa,  which  _.  _,, , ._    .. 

^th  him  home,  keeping  it  for  JU>me  farthi 
after  t  hat  Grstterua  cama  into  the  town  (about  a  100  jeaiea 
idnca),  tlie  atone  ww  naed  anccaafaU;,  for  a  moa  and 
btutiwitfoUawea.  ThealdeataDimeof  thebooeeofGrat- 
teriana  keeps  thl«  toadgtom,  and  he  will  not  lend  it, 
especially  to  atrangoi^  nMtar  «  mwb  cf  GO  oi  100  liTcm.' 
AmongBt  the  oth^vertuea  it  la  observed  that  it  '■■■"' 
▼or  8M«t  (bfSe  agtfnat  malinant  tiaaann,  th..  . . . 
Tmfpiwift  CboIoric^orariapcla^aHiatem^uid  bubOB. 
d  fin  cattal  that  an  bmritshed.    The}'  an  owd  to  heat 


IJtef  aay  it  prarsilB  agaliat  incbanboenW  of  witebat^ 
opesiallj  ^  gltaal  bellied  woDUB  ud  ebildna  banitchad. 

SvaocBasTooapply  it  to  OPS  bewitched,  it  aweatamMi; 
direptb  In  the  plague  it  is  iHid  to  the  heart  to  strengthen 
it.  It  draws  poyeon  oat  of  the  heart,  and  oat  of  carbun- 
clcis  and  peMiIent  eoro.  It  cocsiunes,  dieaipatei.  and 
aoft«iu  ■llhardnaae,  t^mon^^  end  Tarioaa,' — AaBMory 
9f  At  WonOafid  Thmot  of  NnlMn,  be,  ^mdni  imto 
BHgliMk  by  a  i-eno  of  Qya%,  &1,  London,  16G7, 
p.  115. 

Anolhw  ^ysiciut  at  tke  Mine  p^od — m  e^trit 
Jari  in  kda  ie»j — wu  not  sati^ad  witli  Imusm-, 
bat  damd  put  Iha  matter  to  the  teet  of  actual  ob- 
■errstion  abd  experioieal;    Tliia  U  his  aecoont : — 

"La  pierM  de  crapant  qne  qoelquea-vns  appallent 
borax,  chSoalte,  batracMte,  on  erapaadlne.  do  mot 
franecda  ciapaat,  et  lea  aoljea  gnatreiiN^  aK  appelWa  par 
be  Germaisa  (^MmMrm.  Cta  e'etf  m  brait  TolgMi^ 
qn'eUea  aoM  jett<ea  bora  par  dst  Tieax  ciuanta :  quo; 
que  lea  autres  estiment  qae  e'en  eat  le  crane.  Je  me 
sonuiens.  Ion  qne  j'eslois  enfant,  d'anoir  prii  vn  vienx 
crapaut,  et  ranoirmiairar  vn  dr»p  ronge,  affin  de  poonoic 
auou  cesteplerrn  :  (carl'on  raeonteqall  na  rend  point  aa 
piana,  que  lore  qo'il  eat  reposi  snr  vn  drap  nrage,)  mais 
aprta  BDoir  obiers^  tauta  la  nuict,  le  crapaat  na  jetta 
~~    -'  '       ■  '4,  i'ay  l«n3(0ar«  OTBo  poui  badi- 

umi  1  uu  iBConte  de  la  pierra  de  crapaut  et 
le.  11  me  eemble  qa'on  !a  pent  rappaiter 
t  entre  la  pierra  Mellarie  plaa  obacore : 
(ear  elle  a  dea  taehes  abacnrea,  et  la  oenleiir  de  la  piene 
■tallaris,  at  ca  n'est  qoe  sa  couiear  cendr^  et  giiae  retire 
■or  la  ronga).  Ella  eat  conaexe  conune  on  cEil,  et  de  raotie 
«oal^  eUe  eat  applanie,  ou  creos^  Qoelquea-rn  appellent 
celle^il  batmchite,  lea  oiiCrea  brontia  ou  ombria." — Le 
Parfaict  JoailUa;  m  Butoirt  df  Fierrtnut,  *e,  Com- 
poal  par  Aoaalim  Bo6c«  da  Boot,  Hve.   A  L^dd,  164^ 


[tederati  Belgii,  banc  geounam  u  ardent!  Caodebe  pro- 


See  also  a  long  BC«OBDt  of  ths  stone  in  Joaniiia 
De  LftaL  D*  Oemmu  el  Xi^mJAiu  K*m  duo,  ^., 
Bro,  Lugd.  Bat.  1647.  This  wnter  cooaiden  that 
BoetioB  (De  Boot)  haa  wiongfollj  coofoanded  the 
•'toadstane  "  with  the  "gRrationiuni."    He  adds: 

"Fracdpuam  Qlina  virtatcm  pmdlcat  contra  vertlgi- 
oein  capitia,  al  parti  dolenti  appBcetnr,  ant  braehfo: 
mioiu  compartam,  eotrtia  plamitiduB,' ddiqnia  animi  et 
morbum  eadneiim.  Docnlt  me  Vii  Nobiliaspin*  Wilhet 
mnB  BozweUus  Sereniadni 
apad  Uluat.  et  polentis 


Mauj  similar  passages  might  be  transeribed, 
the  aumots  often  doing  little  mure  than  dting  or 
refenicg  to  the  statements  of  their  predecessor. 
I  mav,  however,  bribre  concluding,  suiamon  a 
Danish  phvsiciaii  to  give  ns  the  results  of  that 
rare  and  aiiEcult  process,  especially  where  the 
marvellous  is  concerned — personal  observation  : — 

"  Bufoaiua  Lapis,  ab  aliia  Chelonitis.  Batiachitea  et 
Crapaudiua  vocatur ;  Gecniaiiia  EiotUn-SUin,  quia  fama 
tert  ab  antiquis  bufonibus  eructaii,  quod  experientia 
falaum  esse  doenit  A 
tor  fiutgi  instar  la  sa 
baronain,  ut  vulgo  cr 

"  Cammeinistnr  ad  tomoras  et  InflatioQes  i  vt 
Bsimalibiu  illatus  qua*  contactn  et  adfHcta  diaeotit, 
cnjus  axemplum  is  contubemaH  vidi,  qui  oom  inter  alias 
plantaa  £salaai  ma^onm  collegisBet,  ac  inter  uadican- 


Rwia  Mi^  Britan.  ras  ageas 
I  D.D.  Oidinea  geoeralas  Con- 


&icnit|  subito  intaiauit  ad  miraculum  usque,  sed  petito 
annulo  ab  astante  qni  Ispidem  bnnc  tenebat,  et  loce 
tnmido  aliquDtiee  aSHcto,  intra  horam  detamuit  loflatiD. 
Pnaeote  veneno  sodare  et  coloram  matare  femnt,  qoe- 
circa  contra  venena  ejus  pulvis  eihibetur.    Contra  cal- 

generari  tiOBj>ormittat.'^--^unus  Wonaiauam,  («t  Bii- 
lona  SmmJiarionim,^,  aiiOiiLaWorrn,ilei.Dact^&c. 
Iblio.  AmsUd.  (apat  L.  and  D.  Elzevirtos),  166G,  p.  UI7.) 


nw  wii 

its  genuineness — forbeliefis  a^reatthingin  these 
matters — before  he  invokes  itSTirtuea  tAprerentthe 
formatioD  of  calcuku,  to  dissipate  a  tumour,  orto 
"g^ve  fore-warning  against  venom."  Anoldwiiter, 
copjing  from  others  still  older,  indicates  the  means 
by  which  the  character  of  the  stone  may  be  settled 
beyond  question,  and  which  yoor  correspondent 
wih  hare  no  dii&culty  in  puttii^  into  requisition : — 

know  whether  tbe  tude-tlone  be  the  right 
and  perfect  itone  or  not.     Hold  the  stone  before  a  Hxh^ 
-  "--"  be  may  see  it,  and  if  it  be  a  right  and  trae  atone 
will  leap  toward  it,  and  makeas  though  be  woald 
t,  Heenvietheo  modi  that  avui  ebould  havetliat 

-A  TAmufiad  itfbtoWe  rAtiw,  hy  T.  Lupton,  4to. 

London,  1586,  booki. 

I  need  not  remind  H.  3.  C.  that  the  sttuta  hk 
his  ring  is  that  "  pndotM  jewel,"  which,  won  in 
the  hMd  of  the  "ugh  and  venomous  toad,"  is 
nsad  by  Shakespeare  (At  You  Like  U,  Act  U. 
"     '  ~  as  an  apt  (mnbol  of  the  eweetneie  of  "  the 

adversHy.''    The  analogy  is  imfortunately 

not  baaed  on  soentifio  truA.  In  an  »niiwipg  litUa 
wMk  the  Ber.  R.  H.  Newell  remadia  upoa  Utis 
passage:— 

•■The  stone  diatingnldied  bv  the  name  of  the  reptile 
and  called  Toad-tlnm,  Crapmtiin,  £raJ(Biu(«'n,  has  bew 
diaeoveiad  to  be  nothing  but  the  Ibaal  tooth  lA  the  bm- 
wolf,  or  aome  flaMootbed  fish  not  uaf^oeat  in.  sor 
iaiaud,  M  wall  as  aarenl  other  countries."^  7Aa  Zoetoga 


DigiiizedbyV-jOOy  IC 


jNUXf'S  Affu  nusiaiiaa. 


l4"S.¥lJLJinreM,"7I, 


e/lli€  EHgluh  Fottt  corrtdtd  hg  the  Writiiy  tf  Moden 
yalvidil*.  nndl  Svo,  London,  1849,  p.  ISO. 

See  rIso  on  the  earns  point  Pennant's  BriiiA 
Zoology,  iii.  IS. 

Some  fuTther  renuuks  apon  the  supposed  virtues 
of  the  toadatone  -will  be  found  in  The  Hittory  and 
Poetry  of  linger  Eingi,  bj  Charles  Edwatds,  Svo. 
Eedfleld  (U.S.),  1866,  p.  107. 

William  Bates,  BA. 


PROPHECIES  BT  N03TBADAMDS  AND  OTHERS 
ON  THE  FALL  OF  PABIS. 
(4"  S.  vi.  S&i,  370,  396,  606.) 

The  aabject  of  French  popular  |a«phedes  of 
impendinK  national  caliunities  remaina  still  un- 
exhaosted,  although  there  has  been  a  good  deal 
ot  writing  ahout  it  of  late.  If  I  mistake  oo^  the 
fint  reference  to  it  in  "  N.  ft  Q,"  bore  my  siffna- 
ture.  Kj  attention  was  attiacted  to  the  subject 
hy  a  little  brodutre  which  I  picked  np  on  a  six- 
penny stall  here  in  Melbourne.  The  title  of  this 
Tolume,  which  is  obviously  a  pedlar's  chap-book, 
ia — 

"Le  Lirra  de  touta  las  Proph^et  et  Pi^etioiu, 
Pntiitt  Pr^nmt  rt  ATcnlr.  (1>™  M).  Connd^nble- 
mSDt  augmenl^  et  soivla  d'one  Lettte  snt  la  ProzimiU 
de  1r  Fin  da  Monde,  pai  M.  le  Cbanoun  Bdmusat,  et  de 
laPriiredePioIX.    PbHs,  1849," 

Perhaps  a  brief  account  of  this  curious  little 
budcet  of  oracles  may  be  of  some  interest  to  your 

The  collection  ranges  from  Isaiah's  prophecy 
ag;umt  Jerusalem  (chap,  xxii.)  down  to  the  pre- 
dictions of  the  seers  of  tiie  reTolutiouaty  year 
1848,  All  the  beat-known  oracular  utterances  of 
these  latter  days — such  as  those  of  Cazotte,  Ma- 
dame Lenormand,  the  Nun  of  Blois,  Lady  Hester 
Stanhope,  and  CbBteaubriand— are  included ;  and 
taken  as  a  whole,  and  read  by  the  light  of  recent 
events,  it  is  impossible  to  deny  that  there  is  a 
etiBiige  reality  and  an  arresting  interest  in  the 
little  book.  Take  the  prophecy  &om  IsMah,  for 
example.  In  our  Enghsh  version  the  tiUe  of 
chapter  xxii.  is  "The  Burden  of  the  Valley  of 
Vwon,"  and  it  is  c^uoted  with  an  obvious  sub-re- 
ference to  the  conung  doom  of  the  proud  and  gay 
capital  of  France.  In  your  last  volume  (p  fi£)), 
Ub.  Q.  a.  Sala  has  shown  how  strikingly  the 
predictions  contuned  in  the  sixth  chapter  of  Jere- 
miah would  apply  to  the  ^ege  of  Paris  by  tiie 
Prussians;  but  there  is  a  still  more  remarkable 
coincidence  of  statement  in  Isaiah's  prophecy  of 
the  sack  and  fall  of  "  the  tumultuous  city,  the 
joyous  dty,"  whose  "rulers  are  all  fled  together," 
and  of  which  "  the  houses  have  been  broken 
down  to  fortify  the  walL"  Another  remarkable 
drcumstance  which  the  hook  presents  is  that, 
though  it  has  been  evidently  compiled  for  popular 
drcolation  in  France,  it  eveiywhere  ptedicta  the 


decline  of  the  national  glory  and  the  ruin  of  the 
empire.  This  is  exactly  the  oppodte  of  what  one 
would  be  sure  to  find  in  a  spurious  collectiaa  of 
oracles.  Thus,  the  fall  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  is  indicated  in  these  terms : — After  I^os 
the  Ninth  there  shall  be  ten  more  popes,  who  aio 
each  indicated  by  a  Latin  symbolical  deugnatioo, 
and  then — 

"  In  mnKcntiane  exlremft  Roouuue  Eodeaa  ndd>Il 
Pstras  Bomaniu,  qui  paicat  oves  in  mnllda  tribulAtioni- 
bui,  qnibns  tranwetu,  drUat  aenlicDllis  diraetor,  ct 
jndex  tremendoa  jodicatnt  populnm. 

Agun,  Jean  de  Vatiguerro  in  the  thirteenth 
century  predicts  "  the  spoliation,  devastatitm,  and 
pillage  of  that  most  famous  city  which  is  tha 
capital  and  mistress  of  the  whole  kiiwdi»n  of 
France."  Atthe  sometime,  "toute  I'^userdana 
tout  I'uniTers,  s^n  pers&utte  d'une  mam^  la- 
mentable et  douloureuse,  et  s^ra  ddpouillte  et 
priv^  de  tons  ses  biens  temporels."  The  chief 
of  the  Church,  moreover,  is  to  change  his  rera- 
dence,  and  (this  is  striking)  "  I'^glise  n'aont  p<nnt 
de  ddfenseur  pendant  vmgt-dnq  mois  et  pln^ 
parce  ijue  pendant  tout  ce  temps,  il  n'y  aura  m 

tape  m  empereur  i.  Rome,  ni  regent  en  EVance." 
i  is  speciaUv  mentioned  that  "Loiraine  ahall 
shudder  over  her  spoliation,  and  Champagne  shall 
be  piUs^  and  devastated."  But,  when  all  Qwse 
cslamitieB  shall  be  overpast^  "a  yonns  captive 
prince  shall  recover  the  crown  of  the  miea,  and 
shall  extend  his  dominion  over  all  the  univene. 
Once  established,  he  shall  destroy  the  sons  of 
Brutus  and  their  isle,  so  that  their  memory  diall 
pass  into  everlasting  forgetfulness" — anevilanguij 
for  England. 

This  young  prince,  who  is  to  deliver  FVanca 
from  her  utt«nnoBt  depths  of  tribulation,  reap- 
pears in  very  many  of  these  prophecies.  In  several 
of  them  he  appears  as  the  ust  remaining  sdon  of 
the  "  vieil  sang  de  la  Cap,"  which  would  aeenr 
to  point  to  a  restoration  of  the  Bourbona. 

Madame  Lenormand,  the  seerass  of  the  fint 
Napoleon's  days,  predicted  in  veiy  powerful  lan- 
guage the  utter  destruction  of  the  "modem  Car- 
thage, modem  Babylon,  the  guilty  city  of  Paris." 
It  should  fall  a  piey  to  "a  crafty  conqueror,'* 
whom  its  cowBidice  and  indifference  vrould  rendei 
more  resolute  to  ruin  it ;  and  the  end  should  be 
that  Paris,  destroyed  by  foreign  invaders  and  in- 
ternal dissendons,  would  fall  once  more  into  the 
"  narrow  limita  of  the  ages  of  barbarism." 

The  general  tenor  of  the  predictions  is  of  the 
same  cast,  and  the  last  impression  left  on  the 
mind  of  uie  reader  of  the  book  ia  tha^  all  sur- 
plusage of  undesigned  error  allowed  for,  there  ia 
always  in  the  world  a  large  floating  mass  of  unin- 
spired but  perfectiy  authentic  prophecy.  It  i^ 
however,  only  after  its  fulfilment  that  any  pto- 
phecv  can  be  proved  genuine.  B.  Blub. 


Dgnzeo  by  Google 


4"'8.T1I.Joiib2*,71.] 


KOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


A  NOBTH  LAXCASHIRE  SONG, 
(i"  S.  vii.  428.) 
Thia  quaint  uid  tnmoroiu  ditty  was  formeiljr 
Terypo^ulai  in  Soutli  Laneaahire  and  in  Cheehire. 
Even  still  it  ia  fivquently^  ami^  by  fanueta'  sons 
and  daughters  whilst  driving  in   gprin^carfa  on 
pic-nic  Bicutaions  to  Dunham  Park,  Roathenie 
Uear,  Belle  Vue,  Ac.    Indeed,  only  a  few  moutha 
ago  I  saw  a  gentleman  make  his  dibut  before  a 
Weat-Riding;,  Yoikehiie,  audience  at  a  "  Penny 
Beading,"  amging  thia  song  to  the  beat  of  his 
ability.     So  tnorongh  was  the  appreciation  and 
hearty  the  laughter  at  eong  and  singer,  one 
both,  that  he  declared  he  would  never  appear 
public  again.    The  South  LancaaMre  version 
much  like  the  one  given  by  Ub.  Moksis,  allowing 
for  the  difference  of  dialect,  except  that  the  anxious 
mother  advises  Mm  to  "pat  on  his  flne  clothes 
and  his  new  yellow  hose,"  in  order  to  captivata 
the  affections  of  the  fui  sez.    But  the  ChesJ!iii« 
version,  obtuned  from  Nantwich  seventeen  years 
ago,  which  I  ^ve  verbatim,  is  by  for  tiie  best  I 
have  seen.    It  la  entitled — 

"AifrDifRKanAo/a  Wi/i. 
"'I  am  UiM  mother,  and  thM  art  1117  aan, 
Come  lUUo  to  pareot's  advlai. 
Fat  on  thy  b«t  clothes  and  th;  aweet  jdlow  bow. 
And  go  out  and  seek  tbee  a  vifb— Uiee  muN  1 

Aje  thee  miut,  inre  thee  mmt. 
Go  oat  and  seek  thee  a  wlA — thee  maat ! ' 


His  swuet  f  ellov  hose,  as  well  u  hil  clothes ;' 
Be  Icnked  like  a  eeatleman  bom — he  did ! 

^e  be  did,  nre  be  did. 
He  looked  like  a  gantlonan  bom— be  did  I 


When  aha  hi  ^  . 

Aye  she  did,  san  she  did, 
.  She  fait  him  a  slsp  in  the  bee— she  did ! 
''  A*  Robio  was  walking  the  street  <an  day. 

Thinking  of  nothing  bat  fblks. 
He  happened  to  kisi  &  irlfe  of  a  priest  I 
She  bad  1dm  pat  into  tbe  ntnrW   nhn  did  1 

Aye  she  did,  sure  siie  did, 
She  had  him  pat  into  tbe  steeks— ebe  did  I 
'  Kow  Bobin  sat  sobbing  and  B 

And  kicked  up  a  temble  be , 

'  If  this  is  tbe  way  tbe  men  get  tiieiT  wives, 
lllgobomeand  UvewltbrnvmotlHr— I  will  I 

A7*IwUI,snreIwil), 
111  go  home  and  hve  wiUi  my  mother—I  wilt  I ' 
'  So  come  lake  down  the  tabor,  and  play  ns  a  tone. 

And  take  down  the  mMt  fiom  the  sbelf. 

For  we  shall  have  mnsie  and  dancing  In  &U, 

For  Bobin'B  a  man  oThinuelf— hels  t 

Ay«bets,snrab«ls, 
For  Bobin'B  a  man  of  himself-be  is ! 


I've  ntoiled  my  beat  clothes  and  my  sweet  ydlow  bi 
And  111  never  more  seek  for  a  wife— I  won't  I 


Johh  Hiobor. 


KIPPEB. 
(4*  S.  viL  409.) 


tnnata  in  theii  treatment  of  a  daaa  of  words 

closely  allied  to  k^iper.    The  idea  of  something 

"-"'•'"■' ^thing  turned  auddeoly  or  sticking 

common 

.  . ., ihe  form 

of  the  things  named,  otMtff  and  jti'ioom;  and  to 
Jibt,  from  the  action  of  a  horse  or  boat  in  starting 
aside  from  a  direct  course.  On  both  sides  of  th? 
common  border  of  England  and  Scotland,  a  cow 
with  a  crooked  horn,  that  ia,  vrith  a  bom  abruptlv 
y^"*  "Towards  or  downwards,  is  called  a  kmptt 


cow;  the  tomed-up  plate  of  a  man's  shoe  la  a 
k^ipk  toe-plate ;_  aturned-up  nose  a  kippit  noso, 
&0.  A  stick  with  a  tnraea  handle  b  always  a 
"  pbby  "  stick, 

HalUwel!  gives  gA-Jiih  as  the  name  of  the  milter 
of  the  salmon  in  the  North.  Jamieson  (Etum. 
Diet,  of  Scot.  I/O^.  Suppl.)  says  gib  (g  han^  ia 
used  m  Ettrick  Forest  to  denote  the  beak  or 
hooked  upper  lip  of  the  male  salmon. 

I  think,  then,  it  may  be  fairly  concluded  that 
the  word  fdpptr  is  only  a  corrupt  form  of  g^btr, 
A  ^>p^  saunon  ia  a  salmon  with  a  k^pit  nose. 

Those  who  know  how  the  word  lamer  is  prO' 
aoonced  in  Scotland  will  recognise  it  m  the  fol- 
lowing verse,  which  I  have  met  with  in  Watson's 
CAoice  CoUeaUon  of  Comic  and  Sariout  ScoltPoema 

a 706,  1700,  1711),  in  a  description  of  "  The 
ythesome  Wedding,"  which  is  said  to  be  "  the 
first  of  the  sangs  of  the  Lowlands  to  be  met  with 
in  print": — 

And  there  will  he  wwllibbei  Pesttle, 
and  ploackle-reet  Watt  1'  the  Hill ; 


Though  Jamieson  fuled  to  see  tbe  true  meaning 
of  tbe  word  ki^tr,  his  explanation  of  it  contains 
matter  of  interest  He  says  (Supplement):  — 
"Sij^  originally  denoted  salmon  m  the  state  of 
spawning,  and  was  synonymous  with '  reid  fische.' " 
The  title  of  an  Act  of  James  IV.  (1503),  c  7?, 
"of  slauchter  of  redde  fish,  01  kipper." 
Skinner  thinks  the  word  denotes  youngsalmon, 
or  fry,  from  Belg.  Hp^  =  to  hatch.  Smw  ia 
piopetV  ^e  name  given  to  the  male  fisn ;  the 
female  la  called  a  roan,  or  roaner,  on  the  Border. 
We  read  in  Acta,  Hen.  VIL  c.  31,  «  That  no  person 
take  and  fyl  any  salmons  or  trowtes  not  beymg  in- 
season,  bemg  kepper  salmons,  fa  kappei.  tsowteft     , 

:nzeabyVjOOylC 


S44 


NOTES  AJfD  QUERIES. 


L4"'S.vn.  Josssi.Ti. 


ahedder  ulraoiu.  oi  sltaddei  txmrtea";  sud 
Jtot.  Pari.  50  Edwwd  in.  (Cowel),  "  that  _. 
salmon  be  tftken  between  QiBvesend  and  Hecolej- 
upon-Thames  in  Mpper-ttme,  tIi.  between  the  In- 
Tention  of  the  Cross  (3  Mk?)  and  the  Epiphany." 
Thoilu  DoBBoir,  B.A. 


.     3  salmon  wben  [unfit  to  be  taken,  and 
the  time  when  the;  aie  so  cooeideted."     Kip- 
pered JW-Tmnn  STQ—^ 

«  Sslmoii  ipliC  open,  Mltcd,  tuA  dried.  The  vard 
A^iper  at  first  denoted  a  Bah  itnmedlitelj  after  t~ 
iiig  WMon ;  aad  n  soeli  fish  an  not  good  for  f 
fimh,  Qaj  wan  oraillr  ouied  and  lumg  up.  Vftmaat 
the  word  propulj  ilmuHMij  a  spawning  ulmon  canie  to 
DUao  ■  salted  amd  diied  ulmoiu"— Jamieeon's  SeoL  DieL 

Dr.  J.  forthec  suggeita  that  tlw  word  i^iptr 
ai»7  liter»]ly  msan "beaked " fish  fixHn  the  Scotch 
v«id  Aip,  a  hwi^  ■  jutting  point ;  nd  I  aui^ow 
that  tbua  constnud  the  name  ezpieMBa  the  «p- 
puunuce  of  the  fi^  out  <^  aeeeoD. 

It  is  hardlv  likely  that  thie  woid  hae  hbj  eeit- 
nection  wUh  the  P'^i"**  w«fd  "  keeper  " 

Paialev  "'  ^ 

Sipe  (ftom  the  SazMt  Qpe), 
"AbaakMorasgiumadaaf  oalen,  broad  tttba  aid, 
and  nammai  by  dagrMi,  nied  in  Orfocdebire  and  otbM 

(«rta  of  ^DBland  for  the  taking  of  flah,  and  fi»hitnr  ynik 
thoae  anginas  ia  called  kipping.  We  i«ad  that  no  saJnioa 
rfiall  be  takes  between  Graveeend  and  Henley-npon- 
^i«™  IB  kiifwtimt,  ™.  betwen  the  Sri  of  May  and 
toeEpiphMj.   ant  Pari.  60  Ed.  III."    (Jacob's  law 

G.  M.  T. 

THE  DOKB  08  BOCKDISHAM'9  MOTHEE. 

(4*  8.  Tii.  468.) 
It  has  long  been  reckoned  amongst  the  ex- 
ploded Bcandals  of  history  that  thia  brilliant  and 
nccomphflhed  countMs,  who  played  so  prominent 
a  part  in  the  court  of  James  I.,  was  originally 
a  kitchenmMd  of  mean  descent  This  abeMd  story 
has  lately  been  reproduced  by  Mr.  Hepworth 
Dixon  with  so  nwny  drcunutantial  details  with- 
outa  shadow  of  foundation,  that  one  ie  almoat 
Afraid  of  correcting  ooe  of  tiie  Uundese  in  hia  nat- 
ratire,  for  fear  of  being  supposed  to  aequiMee  in 
the  rest.  Those  who  write  on  histtaical  en^ecte 
in  the  flfsrit  of  the  song  at  the  muaie  ImIIl  "that 
eveiy  dodge  ia  fair  which  will  make  a  good  senaa- 
t*OTi,"  scaieely  deaene  aaneus  rotation.  The 
pMigieas  of  \?Uien  and  Beaumont  in  the  third 
■volume  of  Nichols's  LtiettUrMrt  am  kwem- 
plete  and  require  smne  eonectuMB:  buttheparmt- 
oge  of  Anthony  Beaumeot,  the  iadiH  of  t^ 
^ntes^  *'-p9«im  ia  the  Visitation  of  " 


Mb.  Oabddies  is  mistaken  in  euppowng  that 
there  is  any  doubt  about  the  mBiriage  of  Ladj 
Villiers  to  Six  William  Beynerj  for  t£e  marriafn 
took  place  at  Ooadbj  on  June  19,  1006,  aadu 
duly  recorded  in  the  paiish  register.  Feck,  the 
anuquary,  extracted  &om  the  Goadby  i«fi;iatBtB 
all  the  entries  of  the  Villiers  Eamily,  andtbM 
were  reprinted  by  Hichols  (VoL  ii.  p.  196).  Tl» 
following  extract  from  these  registeis  euppliM  «■ 
amusing  illustration  of  Mr.  Dixon's  recklBSsieas  o£ 
statement:  — 


It  is  clear  from  this  entry  that  Sdsbd  tlQun 
manied  Sir  William  Plelding,  one  of  the  priiun^ 
knights  in  Ldcesteishire,  and  afterwards  £uf  of 
Denbigh,  in  the  next  jrear  aftsi  the  deatii  of  ha 
father,  Sir  Oeor^  V)Ih«8,  and  some  time  before 
her  mother  mamed  her  third  hnsbeod.  Sir  ThiMnas 
Conmton.  But  what  doee  Mr.  Hepworth  IKxoa 
say  aoont  it  1*  — 

"  A  '  littla  man,  a  dnmkaid,  and  a  fiial,'  ^t  Thomas 
Com^ton  was  Oia  butt  of  his  county,  and  the  makcspnt 
of  his  village  green.  Bat  what  were  eucta  things  M  B 
paient  with  her  foiu  tnail  childran— Jolm,  George.  Kit, 
and  8M*m,  Co  feed  and  clothe  7  She  kseir  that  he  wn 
rich,  and  tjxat  was  enongh  for  her." 

I  should  like  to  know,  by  the  bye,  what  endwoe 
there  is  of  the  great  riches  of  ^Thomta  Comigbaa. 

Tbwabb. 

Since  my  note  was  written,  I  hsTe  found  evi- 
dence of  the  second  mainage  of  I«dyYIJliers.  Ina 
pedigree  {State  Paptri,  Domadie,  xc  10),  whidi  is 
proved  by  intemu  evidenoe  to  hays  been  drswD 
up  as  early  as  1617,  BiM^n^nun'e  moiliBr  is  said 
to  have  been  married  Uie  second  time  to  Sir  "W. 
Ranger.    There    are  other  misspellings  in   Uie 

Ssdin^eo  that  the  name  may  be  idMitical  wiUi 
ir  'W.  Eeyner.  If  it  ia,  she  must  have  manied 
very  soon  after  her  hushend'a  desth,  sod  the 
name  "Maria  Villiers"  in  the  list  referied  to 
must  have  been  left  miooii«eted.  As  she  had  no 
special  bequest  in  SirW.  R^rnw's  will,  die  mast, 
if  he  ia  the  husband  in  question,  hare  bew  en- 
titled to  her  dower  out  of  his  lands  eaothet 
argument  against  her  extreme  poverty. 

I  would  take  this  opportumty  of  piant 
two  misprints  or  nuswntings  in  my  note  at  pTlTO. 
In  the  pedigree  there  should  be,  of  course,  do 
horizontal  hne  connecting  Niekidaa  Beaamimt 
with  Mary  Beaumont ;  and  the  date  at  whii^  Sir 
George  Villiera  wss  eud  to  bs  focnteen  yeott  md 
more  is  Nov.  28,  not  Nov.  3, 1C61. 

S,  &.  GAXDISXEt. 


0  by  Google 


»  S.  VII.  jDira  24,  "71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


545 


SOKNET  QTJEKIES. 
(i"  8.  Tii,  466.) 
Mb.  Bouohike  will  find  the  sonnet  on  tlie  Nile 
in  ia<  Ufe  and  Letttri  of  Keats,  by  R.  iloookton 
MDnea  (Moion,  1848),  L  99.  In  a  letter  to  hw 
trotherB  from  HampBtoad,  Feb.  16,  1818,  Keata 
'writes:  "The  Weiieaday  before  last,  Shelley, 
Hunt,  and  I  each  wrote  a  sonnet  on  the  river 
Hile."  The  sonnets  of  Shelley  and  Hunt  are  well 
toiown  aa  magnificent  spocamens  of  their  claaa  of 
poetry.  Keats',  which  was  certMnly  least  auo- 
cetaful  of  the  three,  and  is  not  mduded  in  his 
Foein$,  ruiM  as  follows:  — 


We  c«ll  thse  fruitful,  raid  that  lerj  whita 
A  desert  filli  onr  seeing's  inward  (pm: 
None  of  matt  nations  aioce  the  world  btgu. 
Art  thou  »  fruitful  ?  or  dtwt  thou  b^nila 
Those  men  to  honoar  thee,  who  worn  with  U^ 
Ren  tbem  a  space  'twixt  Cairo  and  Decan  T 
Oma^dukbncieserTl   They  wwl j  do  j 


^-jdtbelt    Thondett  bedew 

Green  nuhea  lilw  onr  rirenit  and  do«t  taste 

The  pleasant  ann-rise.  Green  ialu  hast  tlioa  too. 

And  to  the  lea  as  happily  dost  hiate." 

This  would  Beam  to  have  been  not  the  imiiji 

instance  of  a  poetical  tournament  of  the  kind 

between  these  highly-gifted  men.    Both  Leigh 

Hunt  and  Keats  wrote  a  sonnet  each  on  the  gi«a»- 

hopper  and  cricket;  Leigh  Hunt's  beginninfc:  — 

X  Green  little  vanlter  in  the  tansy  gnw,"— 
andEeata' — 

"  The  poetry  of  earth  is  never  dead." 

I  quite  agree  with  Me,  BoTJcancB  that  Mr. 

Jtosaetti's  ver^on  of  the  lino  from  the  Adonait  of 

Shelley  is  a  mislakB.    The  emphasis  belongs  to 

the  word  "wild,"  not  to  the  conjunction  "And." 

G.  J.  Db  Wildb. 

Mb.  Johathak  BoTJCHnai  qnestions  the  cot- 
iBctness,  as  regards  rhythm,  of  Wr.  Eoeeetti's 
alteration  of  around  to  roand.  In  defence  of  Mr. 
EoBBotti'a  reading,  if  it  reqmwa  any,  in  the  firat 
rface  I  beg  leave  to  say  that  this  accompushed 
MlitoT  haa  a  precedent  in  e»rlier  editions.  I  have 
one,  pubUshed  by  Milner  and  Sowerby,  giving  the 
Une  m  question  the  same  as  Mr.  Rosaetti.  And  m 
the  second  instance,  I  cannot  M^reewith  Sui. 
BotroHiBK  in  bis  correction,  and  I  do  it  with  the 
leaa  reluctance,  as  Ma.  Bouchibb  ia  so  far  unde- 
ciied  himself  aa  to  aak  other  opinions.  The  line 
in  debate  is  a  most  perfect  Alexandrine;  and 
ttuoughout  the  whole  poem  Shelley  has  preserved 
the  (Jose  of  his  stanzas  unvaried  by  increase  or 
decrease  of  ayUablea.  If  a  had  been  prefixed  to 
rmetd,  it  would  have  been  an  exception;  and  I 
cannot  help  thinHng,  -mith  due  deference  to  Mb. 
BOT70SIKE,  an  unpleasing  one.    The  eraphasiB  on 


"  And,"  as  the  lino  now  nma,  ia  aEght,  and  its 
weight  ia  on  the  "wild  winds,"  then  on  the  pause 
at  maad;  the  first  syllable  of  the  second  member 
of  the  veise  anaweia,  but  with  a  mnch  stronger 
accent,  to  the  "And"  of  the  first.  "nusHnraa: — 
«  And  ttia  wHrf  innA  flew  maid,  ioebing  in  th^  dii«fljf." 

It  is  the  only  instance  in  the  elegy  of  two 
monosyllables  sounded  knig  coming  together— 
"  wild  winds,"  and  the  aupeiflHiws  a  to  roimd, 
would  to  my  ear  be  very  inharmonioas. 

J.  A.  G. 

Cariabrooke,  

GERMAH  LTJTHEEAN  CHUBCH,   DUBLIN. 
(3-*  a  X.  892,  484.) 

By  the  kindBOSs  of  a  Wend  I  have  been  lately 
finnMied  with  a  copy  of  the  following  document 
whidi,  as  I  have  oeea  informod,  has  never  ap- 
peared in  print,  and  wbidi,  unless  I  am  miataken, 
will  be  deemed  interesting  by  many  of  your 
reffitdera: — 

A   Short  Stattmat  of  the  Genua  ChanA  and 


"  It  WIS  ahout  the  ]>ear  1698  that  a  Ur.  Liditenstan 
came  to  Dublin  to  try  if  he  could  find  a  congregation  of 
Genome.  Ha  sacoeeded  in  collecting  a  smell  mintlwr, 
who  agreed  to  recave  him  >e  thrir  minister,  and  pay  him 
ft  salary  by  volnntory  S[ 


sabscriptioD ;  bat  ai 


M  ablet 


and*ti7  to  raise  sataciipSoos,  which  he  did ;  and  leceiyil 
a  good  iieai,iriiicii  wis  afterwaida  applied  to  (he  bnildiDg 
of  the  church  and  dwaUing-house  for  the  minister  m 
Foolbeg-street.  In  the  year  1706  a  Mr.  Kfflinghmm 
mBcrtSed  bias ;  and  nnder  his  directing  the  chorch  rad 
house  were  buUt  about  the  year  1725.  It  appeus  lliat 
■bout  this  time  he  got  a  yeariy  giant  from  the  King^ 
royal  paUnt,  which  was  renewed  to  hu  "affMSors,  bat 
wSnirer  ™ted  by  P«rll«nent  or  the  Irish  Govont- 
ment.  As  T>efore  stated,  the  ooogregation  has  been  con- 
tinwallv  sraaU,  and  most  of  them  poor :  only  one  or  two 
wen  able  to  oontribnte  fbr  the  npholding  the  chnreh  anfl 
ministry:  of  whidiwaa  a  Mr.  Pelster,  who  Bcmtribnted 
Uberelly  nearly  fifty  yeara,  and  at  last  left  m  his  wj" 
5001.  for  the  poor  of  the  German  church;  by  which  he 
coold  not  melm  only  what  ere  called  panpers,  but  tte 
poor  who  attended  the  diurch  eervKi^bnt  oonid  contit 
bMe  very  little  for  npholdlag  it.  The  fore-meationod 
beaiMit  oune  to  the  church  Si  the  year  1770,  when  a 
Mr.  Holler  was  nuuister;  who  had  al«)  been  appomted 
bv  Mr.  FeJster  execntor,  to  act  after  the  death  of  Mra. 
Pelster,  which  happened  In  1789.  Piom  that  tune  the 
interest  of  said  money  hae  been  used  by  nunister  and 
ehnrehwerden,  as  it  haa  been  wanted,  for  ohenty  and 
anhohUngsaiddiurd..  In  the  ye«- 1806  I  was  appointed 
DSnist^Tand  was  premised  100/.  salary  per  year,  es  ^ 
yna  no  one  who  would  aneage  for  less.  This  ssme 
shoTdd  be  mado  up  in  the  foUowingway  ittat  is  to  »y, 
MW.  from  Oevaniieat.  the  «*>>"  Jyj«*?^lfeSl?",i 
whatw- wwitiB«*eiild  be  added  frwn  the  inlerertrf 
Sdiaeow/TWi  was  kq*  I*  imtn  im ;  but  tromttat 
dmelhointribation  oeased.  as  most  of  the  <~ff^^!^ 
had  died,  and  no  new  setUew  did  coraei  ~  ^»J  tSSi, 
not  receive  my  flill  "alary  any  more,  wily  ^^^*  ,j 


loui  of  It,  to  fliklib  aome  haoan  btlougiiig  to  m7  fuoily." 
Appended  to  this  document  there  u  i  note  to 

the  lollowing  effect : — 
"  This  ia  m;  father't  own  writjoe.    I  bave  only  to  add, 

that  when  the  other  f^miU  to  chintio  bom  Government 

mre  alopped,  mj  fathet's  aalary  wag  likaniw  wittulrawn. 

— C  M.  SHULiK." 

AifciKKT  Riddles  (4*  S.  rii  614.) —The 
answer  to  the  fint  riddle  is  certainly  the  moon,  u 
eugffMt«d.  The  second  is  rather  a  prophecy  than 
a  nddle,  and  refen  to  the  overthrow,  soon  after 
the  Reformation,  of  the  celehratad  "Rood  of 
Cheater,"'fom]erIy  a  favourite  object  of  pilgrimage. 
This  croM,mentioiied  in  Piers  tha  FUnomim,  paae.  t. 
L  469  (B  test),  stood  bedde  the  "  sacred  Dee," 
AS  Tennyson  oUls  it,  in  a  spot  to  which  it  gRTB 
the  name  of  Rood-m'e  or  crosa-ialand,  now  cor- 
rupted into  Roodee  in  the  attempt  to  assimilate 
the  latter  part  of  the  word  to  the  name  of  the 
lirer.  The  prophecy  merely  asserts  the  downfall 
of  this  cross,  and  was  probablr  written  aoou  after 
the  cTent.  Waiike  W.  Skeat. 

1,  Cintra  Terrae«,  Cambridge. 

SuH-Diit  iNSCBipnoNS  (4*  S,  vii.  256,  377, 
622.) — At  Middleburg,  the  capittd  of  Zealand, 
in  the  island  of  Flushing,  there  is  a  fine  old  town- 
talL  built  1488  by  Charles  the  Bold,  ornamented 
■with  twenty-five  coloasal  statues  of  counts  and 
countesses  of  Flanders.  Above  the  &ce  of  the 
clock  affixed  to  this  building  there  is  the  inscnp- 

"  Fneteramt  et  Impntantnr." 
Nodoubf'Periuntet  imputantur"  already  quoted 
in  "  N.  &  Q."  is  to  be  preferred. 

It  has  struck  me  that  part  of  the  tenth  Terse  of 
the  ninetieth  psalm  might  form  another  solenm 
inscription  for  a  clock  or  sun-dial— 

"  Sooa  paaseth  it  awaj,  and  wa  aie  gone  " ; 

"  Irrevocable  I  Iricpanbte." 

Round  the  clock  at  Eeir  House,  near  Dunblane, 
ilie  seat  of  Sir  William  Stirling  Maxwell,  the  fol- 
lowing striHng  inscription  appears : — 

"  Honis  ait  T^e'a  abafta,  and  one  cornea  winged  with 

II.B.S. 
John  Dyke  (4*  S.  vii.  232,  363,  443,  624.)— 
Mb.  Jackson  knows  tlie  old  proverb,  tluit  "  two 
blacks  don't  make  a  white,"  and  it  is  needless  to 
Jjring  forward  instances  of  bad  grammar  in  Shake- 
speare, Pope,  and  Bvron  to  escuae  the  same  faults 
in  Dyer.  If  he  had  written  such  poetry  as  tiitata 
ve  might  pardon  him  a  slip  in  grammar  now  and 
OiVn ',  but—to  quote  another  vulgar  adage— Mb. 


As  for  tha  linnet,  of  course  Byer  used  the  word 
geilow  as  an  epithet  without  any  intention  of  ond- 
tbologically  distinguishing  the  bird  bom  the  green 
or  brown  land.  The  twittering  of  the  linnet  sug- 
gests nothing  poetical  or  pensive,  in  hannonj  with 
the  "pnrple  evening,"  and  the  bird,  beug  an 
earlv  rooster,  does  not  sing  at  that  time  at  all 
Ana  now  I  tiunk  we  had  better  let  poor  Dyn  rest 
in  his  obscurity.  Jatdkk 

Rood  ScBsxirs  nr  Suffolk  Ghubches  (4"  S. 
vii.  143,  267,  Sl&WAllow  me  to  remind  Vx. 
MiSBR  with  regara  to  his  Idndly-intended  oon- 
tribution,  that  it  will  be  most  desirable  (as  indeed 
he  will  have  learned  from  the  endleea  controveny 
on  the  ui^appily  destroyed  Starston  freeco,  this 
original  copy  of  which  ia  now  known  to  be  o' 


doubtful  accuracy)  to  verify  the  statements  and 
inscriptions  sent  to  him  befca-e  ^nting  them,  since 
skilful  draughtsmen  like  Mr.  Watling,  and  even 


clergy,  are  not  always  quite  accurate  in  copying 
legends  or  skilled  io  reading  the  coiitn>ct«d  and 
indistinct  words. 

Posmbly  Mb.  Mabsh  might  obtun  valuable 
asmstaDce  from  Mr.  E.  L.  Blackbim,  F^S.,  who 
in  his  professional  duties  as  architect  haa  for  many 
years  been  compiling  tha  Histoiy  of  the  Rood- 
screens  of  SuffoDi  and  other  counties  from  pa-tomd 
inspection,  and  some  time  since  issued  a  proapactna 
of  a  forthcoming  and  evidently  very  careful  wo^ 
on  the  subject.  StnTOLs  AsnguAKT. 

"  The  Obeatbst  Clbbxs  abe  hot  the  Wisest 
Mbii"{4*S.  viL409.)— 

"  The  mteet  clerkea  bin  not  the  wyeest  men, 
Aa  wnilom  to  the  wolf  thus  apako  the  marB." 

This  is  the  only  passage,  so  far  as  I  can  remem- 
ber, in  the  Canterbwy  Tala,  containing  an  allusion 
to  any  incident  in  The  SiOory  of  Eeynard  the 
Foxe.  Mr.  Thomas  Wright,  in  bis  note  on  the 
above  lines,  says :  — 

"  Tb«  fable  of  the  wolf  and  the  mare  ia  fannd  in  the 
Latin  faopean  collections,  and  in  the  eaily  French  poem 
of  Rtaard  It  ConlTtfait,  from  whence  it  appeals  to  have 
been  taken  into  the  English  Bryiani  tht  Fox." 

Now  it  ia  quite  true  that  the  story  occura  in 
Reynard  le  Contrefait  and  in  other  early  poems; 
but  it  certainly  did  not  come  into  the  English 
Seynard  from  the  French  poem  just  mentioned. 
Cazton  translated,  as  we  all  know,  from  the  Dutch 

g'ose  HiUorit  van  Heijnaert  de  Vot,  printed  at 
ouda  in  1479,  and  his  translation  is  for  the  most 
part  futhful,  fully  justi^ing  his  own  statement : 
"  I  haue  not  added^  ne  mynusshed,  but  haoe  t<A- 


o  exception  to  the  fidelity  frith  which  be 


*»S.TU.JirM  54,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


M7 


hks  "folvwed  hiB  copje."  It  may  be  obaeired 
thftt  Chaucer  appears  either  to  hnve  had  an  im- 
peifect  acqiuuDtanca  vith  the  fable,  or  to  haTe 

a  noted  from  mamory ;  for  it  was  not  the  mare  at 
il,  but  Rejnaid  himsQlf  who  thna  addreeeed  the 
■vroit,  the  maie  havinff  quietlj  trotted  away  with 
ber  foal  aa  acMu  as  ^e  had  abown  Isegnm  die 
price  wliich  was  written  on  hei  hoof. 

F.  NoBOAix. 

Montaigne  (£m.,  liv.  i.  oh.  ixiv.)  quotes :  — 
"  Mugu  magnoi  elerico*  Don  sunt  migiB  magaot)  Mpi- 

And  his  editor  (ed.  Didot,  Patia,  1802),  the  poet 
Segnier'a  tranalt^on :  — 

"  Lta  ploi  grands  dera  ne  Kmt  pu  lea  ^ug  fios ." 
Jaxes  Ksowi-bs. 
SresEr  Folk  Lobb  :  The  Slowwobm  (4'*  S.  rii. 
427.) — In  Norfolk  the  sajiiig  is — 

"  iranakee  codM  hear  and  alova  coold  tet, 
Nor  man  nor  beaat  wonld  ever  be  Enu." 
The  slow-worm  is  known  as  the  Wmrf-worm 
OTerywhere.  Q.  A.  C. 

"Fkom  CLoes  10  Ct09H,"KT0.  (4*  8.  ya  472.) 
M.  D.  has  sent  you  a  refined  copy  of  the  proverb 
in  question.  The  (niginal,  I  venture  to  think,  is 
tlie  better  of  the  two:  "There'a  nobbnt  three 
g«Derations  atween  clogs  and  cl(^' 


"ISb"  AMD  " Eh "  (4""  S.  npauim ;  rii. 69, 193, 
204.)  —  I  have  been  prevented  by  &  long  illneas 
Irom  noticing  Db.  Dixon's  replv  to  me  b^ore.   Uy 

"  language,"  of  which  he  complainB,  is  simply  that 
of  the  facts.  I  am  sorry  they  do  not  accommodate 
tbemselyeB  to  Sb.  Dhoh's  hjpotbesiB,  but  surely 
that  is  no  fault  of  mine.  It  appears,  however,  that 
the  real  combatant,  conveniently  uielteiiug  him- 
self tmder  Db.  Duok's  buckler,  is  "the  author  of 
several  learned  works  and  the  professor  at  a 
foreign  university,"  and,  moreover,  "one  of  the 
most  diatinguisbed  scholars  and  philologists  of  the 
age."  WeU,  "non  omnes  onmw  scimua."  This 
gentleman  may  perhaps  be  a  profeeaoi  of  geology 
or  of  oriental  languages,  hut  certainly  not  of 
French;  and  thereiore  (especially  as  we  do  not 
know  who  he  is)  I  hope  one  may,  without  want 
of  courtesy,  question  his  authonty  when  it  is 
opposed  to  that  of  all  the  philologists  of  France. 
It  will  he  remembered  that  I  before  asked  Ck. 
Uixoir  where  he  "  discovered  "  "  ha  science,"  "  te 
droiy'  BnA  "6s  philosophie."  He  now  informs 
us  that  these 'phenomena  are  "very  common  in 
French  Switzerland  and  elsewhere,"  as  well  as  on 
the  visiting  cards  of  some  of  hie  acqutuntance  (bad 
'cess  to  the  engravers !)  j  and  adds  that  "  Docteur 
it  droi^"  in  the  newspapers,  is  as  frequent  as  "  Doo- 
teurra  droit"  In  thapresenceof  tbeseatatemenls 
I  admit  Db.  Dixon's  rights  as  a  discorerer,  bat 


demur  to  the  value  of  the  discoveries ;  eepedaOy 
aa  the  accomplished  Littrd,  after  working  iode- 
fatigably  on  his  ffreat  dictionary  for  twen^-fonf 
years,  seems  to  have  been  entirely  ignorant  ^t 
them.  Perhaps  the  ineoimu  professor  would  ob- 
ligingly communicate  them  to  him  for  insertion 
in  the  "  Supplement."  I  have  often  read  with 
great  interest  Db.  Dixoh'b  valuable  contributiotis 
on  ballad  literatnre  in  "N,  &  Q.,"  hut  I  eubml^ 
that  this  case  of  "Jiand  en"  comes  under  quite 
another  category.  J.  Pahtb. 

Eildiie  Gardeiu. 

In  the  SoecUer  dp  Ja  Foj/,  ov  dS/enie  de  la  oon- 
festioit  de  foy  de»  £glue»  riformia  de  France,  by 
Pierre  du  Moulin  (1619),  this  word  and  its  com- 
pounds are  very  frequently  met  with.  Thus,  in 
sec  X.  p.  86,  "  Es  nous  ont  laissd  I'Euan^le  It 
Escritures,  poui  estre  coLomne  &  appuy  de  nostra 
fby,"  is  mven  as  a  translation  of  the  passage, 
"EvangeUum  in  scripturis  nobis  tradiderunt,  fnn- 
damentum  ft  columna  fidei  noBtres  futurum" — ^g 
plainly  meaning  "  dans  les."  But  I  have  not  as 
yet  noticed  any  reference  in  youi  columns  to  the 
words  itquele,  ^iguellei,  Sec.,  compounds  of  £»,  and 
implying  "  Aint  JBX|uels."  Here  is  a  line,  &om 
the  same  work,  wmch  shows  its  own  significap 


pai  plus  oontnurelk  la 
nix.  nODueaax,  tmilt  le 
t .  •  •  dans  lesqaeb,"  etc. 


"  Ha  Bfment  qae  le  ioor  n' 
DQict  qne  lea  andana  condh 
pape  r^le  tout  &  otdonua  de 

Then  again:  — 

"  Dae  ^1i«a  partimli^Te  eat  aojetts  k  ener,  mesDu  ea 
ce  dont  il  a'at^l,  &  Dfanoir  t  bire  do  temcmatrancea,  et 
vser  (user)  de  ceoBarea,  iiqtalla  (dons  leaqaelles)  se 
eommettent  dei  lanlea.'* 

H.  W.B. 

Datb  op  Chaocbb's^ibth  (4"  S-vii.  412, 478.)' 
Mb.  FnairivAij.  speaks  of  Chaucer's  "  Boke  of  the 
Duchesse"  as  "essentially  the  work  of  a  young 
hand,  of  a  man  under  thir^."  I  will  not  pause 
to  conader  how  few  men  of  such  an  age  could 
have  written  one  of  the  most  melodious  and  hawd- 
ina  poema  that  ever  was  penned,  but  I  aak  per- 
nuaaion  to  call  the  attention  of  your  correspond- 
ents to  a  difficulty  in  the  chronology  of  this  poem. 
Chaucer  describes  the  duke  as — 

"  A  wonder  welfarlng  kaight,  .  .  . 

Of  good  mokell,  and  Hght  yong  tlierto. 

Of  the  age  of  fbor  and  tweDtie  jete." 
The  Duchess  Blanche  died  in  1S39 — an  undis- 
puted date;  and  in  that  year  John  of  Oaunt 
according  to  the  received  date  of  his  birth,  would 
be  twenty-nine,  not  twenty-four.  His  friend 
Chancer  can  hardly  have  faOed  to  know  his  age, 
which  is  attested  Dy  Froisaait  and  other  histo- 
rians, but  not  (so  far  as  my  researches  have  in- 
formed me)  by  any  State  docnment  otherwise  than 
inferentially.  The  first  mention  that  I  flikd  of 
him  is  in  one  of  the  JioAdi  OMOnmAtbrforM  Mot- 

Dgnzeo  by  Google 


htdiea  bad  to  dnide  aBong  dem)  until  JoW, 
lS4a(llBt.Exil.MiA.KEiw.UI.)  Tfam  tvo 
aitriaa  mvf,  kowova,  be  btkan  u  confirQMtoiy 
•TideDee  of  John  of  Qsmifi  birth  in  1340,  em- 
MdflBKg  tiao  that  Edmund,  who  -wm  Mrtnl;  hia 
yooBgai  brother,  mis  bant  in  1341.  How  dull 
we  aceoDntfor  we  five  jeais'  discnpaBCTbetweai 
the  dates  ?  H«tn»wt*im«- 

"HeastofHeibis"  (4*^  S.  tU.  302,  S99, 463.) 
Among  the  able  writers  who  have  aniated  to  gire 
coneDCj  to  thia  phnse,  is  Mr.  Anthoirf  IVollope, 
ax.gr.:  — 

"Inherheirt  ofheutiUn.  Gnmtlj  hated  Mn.Fron- 
die— that  iB,  vitb  die  1011  of  hMnd  one  Chiiitnii  hdy 
■nswi  (wndf  to  fcel  towards  aBotfaei-.'—fVH^y  PoTWK- 


GuTTOir  (4*  B.  viL  964,  446.)  — Perimpa  flie 
queriat  meant  to  aalc  yiiy  an  iron-bnilt  tonet- 
niip  waa  «ndled  "  Qhttaa."  If  ao,  he  will  find 
that  bis  qatftj  haa  afready  been  answered  by  my- 
self and  others  in  pievious  Tolumes  ot"  N.  &  Q.," 
but  as  I  have  not  now  got  them  at  hand  I  am  nw- 
ftble  tmgive  the  exact  reference.  I  ntay,  however, 
briefly  say,  that  the  name  of  "  GUtton  "  baa  been 
preaerred  ia  the  nary  since  the  beguming  of  tiie 
century,  when  Mr.  Wells  built  at  l^athBm  a  ship 
of  fifty  gnne,  which  he  named  "  Olatton,"  after 
the  Huntingdonshire  parish  of  that  name,  near  to 
StdHon,  of  which  he  was  the  loid  of  the  manor. 
The  greater  portion  of  the  pariah  of  Glatton  still 
belongs  to  his  deecendant,  w.  Wells,  Eaq,  M.P., 
•of  Hdme-wood.  A  full  description  of  tie  Glat- 
ton  will  be  found  in  Mi.  Beed's  Our  Irmdad 
iSftqM.  I  have  often  been  amoaed  st  seeing  the 
word  nnsprinted  "  tlie  Gfaitton." 

CTrrHBKBT  Bkde, 

Glatton  is  a  parish  io  Buutingdoiuhice,  and 
nve  name  to  H.M.S.  Glatton,  50,  in  which  C^t. 
(afterwazds  Sir)  H.  TroUope  ei^aged  a  flench 
frigate  squadron  on  July  13, 1796,  off  Golee.  (See 
James's  Naval  HuL,  i.  SAL)  I  remembat,  aa  a 
very  little  bov,  occasional  visite  paid  to  the  gallant 
old  man  in  Ins  quiet  hcmie  at  Freshfcnd,  near 
Bath,  where  he  prided  himMlf,  with  jnatice,  on 
tiie  beauty  of  his  gnidea. 

Was  not  Lord  Sandwich,  First  Ijoid  of  the 
Admiralty^  connected  with  Hunts? 

Hackshzix  K  Waloott,  RD.,  KS-A. 

UuDnnrxLL,  mux.  Loma  (4"  S.  -m.  889.) — 
The  first  of  the  family  of  Hoaely  liring  at 
Uaidaiwell  in  the  eightaenth  century  waa  an  ad- 
]Nnnt  of  the  House  tf  Staart,  who  raiaed  a  troop 
of  bone  in  1716,  and  waa  made  prisoner  at  Pree- 
tea.     After  mmy  adrantnraa  be  mcoaeded  in 


windi  hia  dootondnala  retnoed.  A  *bort  tinM 
before  tihe  nnig  of  1746  Pnnce  Obariea  Bdwud 
riatad  Mr,  Hoeely  at  HaidenweU.  The  jwian 
was  landed  from  the  T««el  which  had  brought 
him  from  France  somewhere  about  Saltfleetby  by 
a  man  who  was  known  to  the  writer's  gtajod- 
father.  Dnring  this  visit  the  prince  went  to  lin- 
Mln,  and  with  Ida  Baaal  rechlearoeas  appeared  at 
an  entertunment  where  his  preeence  excuted  sa»- 
pidon,  and  wo«ld  have  led  to  hia  detention  had  it 
not  been  for  the  vigUaiice  of  his  boat,  who  aeeoB- 
panied  him  from  HaidenweU.  Ammwst  other 
Jacobite  relies  which  have  been  handed  down  in 
hia  bmily^  the  writer  has  in  hia  fiitrfamnn  on  old 
tky-biue  nbbon  of  the  Gart«r  which  waa  woni  bf 
the  prince,  and  left  by  him  at  MaidenwelL  Mr. 
Moeely  died  suddenly  about  the  time  of  the  rionc 
of  174S,  fimm  the  mortification  of  an  old  wauu 
received  In  1716.  The  anthoritiea  tliinVng  thai 
bis  coffin  hod  been  filled  with  stones,  and  that 
Mr.  Moaely  himself  had  gone  to  join  the  iiisn> 
gents,  bad  him  disinterred  and  expoeed  to  pnblie 
-riew.  The  MosbIvb  being  Catholics,  it  u  not  liko^ 
that  the  pariah  books  will  contaui  any  re^stei  d 
baptisms,  thongh  tbey  may  of  boriaU.  Aboal 
thirty  ^eara  anw  there  woe  a  stone  in  the  wa^  in 
the  inside  of  Farforth  church  recording  the  death 
of  one  of  Idr.  Moaely's  danghtets.  E.  S.  O. 

Obiittubm  o*  Nbwabk,  Bakohwib  (4'*  6.  *ii. 
S4S.) — I  have  not  ee«i  Burke's  Sm-mttapt  tm 
thia  year,  and  do  not  precisely  nnderrtand  from 
H.'s  eonmimieation  what  arras  are  now  attributed 
to  the  above  family ;  bnt  in  the  volume  for  1M6 
thejr  are:  Qaartem,  let  trad  4th,  gales,  a  Smbo 
ermine;  Snd  and  Srd,  a  chevron  betweeo  three 
croeaes  pattje.  Crest :  an  cnniDe,— bearingB  whidi 
can  only  appeTtain  to  the  deBcendante  from  tin 
marriage  of  Malcolm  CrauFard  of  Greenock  with 
Maijorf,  dong^itar  and  barese  of  John  Barclay  of 
Kilbimie. 

I  notice,  too,  that  the  pmaent  baronet  ie  styled 
"of  KilUnne";  and  in  the  "Lineage"  QuentiB 
Oranfttrd  of  Nswark,  the  father  of  the  first  baro- 
net (created  17S0),  isc«lled"adesoendantof  tbe 
CraufOrds  of  Eilbimie."  The  ermine  feete  and 
the  chevron  and  crosees  patt^  ore  qusrteied  by 
Sir  Hew  Crawfard-PoHok,  Bart.,  who  it  appeals 
to  me  ie  alone  entitled  to  the  deai^^mrticai  "of 
Knhimie  " ;  bnt  I  write  under  correction. 

Betham,  in  hia  Barcmttage  (voL  iv.,  Appendix, 

?.  16),  gives  a  abort  acooont  of  the  Newark  famly; 
ut  oltnough  the  then  baronet  is  called  "of  Bjl- 
bnntey,"  the  pecUgree  ia  notcairied  beyond  the  first 
baronet,  and  the  aniM  ore  ttere  i^Ton  aa  Aiwen^ 
a  buck's  head  erasedgnles,  whidi  are no^  I  think, 
the  bearings  of  tiie  ^biniie  family. 


lu-S-TII.  Jum24,'71.] 


nOTJGH  AUD  f^UKaiES 


The  Ber.  C.  H.  Onnford,  rector  of  Otdcwinibkl, 
in    WaHBstenhiiB    (whose   father,    the  £unaua 

majoc-Gaaeral  Robert  Craufiud,  waa  a  son  of  Sii 
Alexander,  the  firat  baronet),  in  a  (publnhed) 
sermon  preached  "on  the  occa^n  of  his  eecond 
xnamage,"  mada  the  followia^  extnwrdinaiy  state- 
znents  respecting  hia  fijoily :  — 

"  As  regaids  m?  ancoab?,  I  vQl  now  only  aay  tbat, 
not  uncoaDBCtcd  with  the  hsreic  Willacy*  I  an  at  least 
collaterally  allisd  to^  iT  not  liaeelly  deaeinded  bom,  the 
ancient  Lorda  o(  Craofind,  who  niled  tbtii  broad  domauu 
in  all  the  majealy  of  Ibndal  stala  before  Uu  many  auA- 
rooBU,  who  DOW  swarm  the  peerage,  had  eprouted  firom 

"^  "*  "  H.  a.  G. 

"The  Shbobs  o*  PABWAssoa"  (4""  S.  vii.  410, 
448.) — The  author  of  this  little  volume  was  Wll- 
liani  Woly.  (See  mj  communication  to"N.  &Q.," 
4:'^  S.  ii.  408.)  Perhaps  the  moat  intereetiiig  posm 
in  the  Toluine  is  "  A  Description  of  Buuigga 
"WeUs."  In  the  same  author'B  Shtionu  ofStOe^ 
1768^W6  have  a  poam  on  "  Vauxhall,"  and  another 
on  "  Wliite-Conduit  House."  Wo^  was  fond  of 
wridng  about  th««e  old  places  of  amusement,  and 
hia  descnptioiu  are  valuable  recwds  of  the  paat 
Edvabd  F.  Rdeuvli. 

Ou>  SooiOB  NsmpAPxas  (4f^  S.  viL  3&0.) — 
The  (ddesteziataaB  Scotch  newqiuwr,  barnag  the 
official  BUj^nrgk  OaseOe,  is  HtB  Sdiiibmyh  Juan- 
wff  CowatO,  which  VBS  eslaUi^ad  on  Decem- 
ber 15, 1718:— 

"  It  was,"  B«TS  AndrewB,  iu  his  Butory  of  Brilith 
JaatmSim  (i,  287),  "ths  propMty  of  three  paitnorB, 
John  Uosaman,  Janet  M'fiwan,  and  Williaa  Brown,  and 
■  sold  at  tha  aJNBt  of  the  said  James  H'Kwan  and  WU- 
Ijan  firown,'  The  piivUtige  wu  nautad  to  Jamei 
H'Ewen,  itationer,  biugess,  of  excloslvehr  printing  news 
in  EdinlinTeb  on  Mondavi,  Tusidavi,  and  Tlnindaya,  on 


Noel  a 


tha  aagiamilw'  prior  t^'pubticalion.' 
t^wBiit  bad  been  iu  exist«Dee  for  some  yean  prior  to 
this  date.  The  Scoub  paper  which  staiub  next  on  the 
list  is  the  Aierdttn  Joanal,  wliicb  was  estaJjlislMd  in 
1716  after  the  battle  of  CuUoden,  of  which  No.  1  contains 
an  aceonnt.  The  publication  was  suspended  for  ^boat  two 
yoM,  bnt  it  baa  baen  pnblisbed  n^iilwly  since  1718." 
AXEXABSBE  PaISBSOIT, 

Bamalgj. 

"Cahxbebbet  Talks,"  EWTioir  of  1561  (4*  S, 
m,  422.) — Fblaqids  can  be  referred  to  a  copy  of 
this  edituti,  if  h»  will  cooimnoisate  with  me. 

Qm,  Clvlow. 

87,  CaTersham  Boad,N.Tr. 

Jott«  FoeTK  OB  WoaDSLBY,  1779  (4*  S.  viL 
4ia)— To  the  name  of  Joha  Foster  of  Wordsley 
there  is  added  a  note,  tiut  be  was  a  memfaerof  an 
andent  Leicerterrfrire  family,  noticed  by  Nichols 
b  hia  history  of  that  county.  Are  the  Leicester- 
sluie  Fosten  related  to  the  Festers  of  KyhaH, 
who  iitterKUKiied  with  tlM  StateOa,  and  whoM 

■  Wallaai's  methar  waa  a  doiightui  of  Hugh  Cranbnl 


pedigree  is  given  in  Blore's  Sullaadf  In  Bloie 
the  arms  of  the  Buirells  are  given,  bat  not  those 
of  the  FoateiB.  F. 

La  CASAOOI.B  (4""  S.  i 
the  Spanish  caraeet.    Jc 
it  as  "an  oUique  tread  of  a  I: 
Cb^sol  say :  "  Terme.  do  man^ 
rona  ou  demi-rond  qu'on  f^t  faire  h  uu  chevaL" 

Motley  probably  made  use  of  this  hippie  term 
to  denote  the  custom  which  obtaioa  at  coarb,nervBr 
to  turn  one's  back  upon  the  sovereign ;  and  thenoe 
the  awkward  obligation,  when  initiate,  to  with- 
draw performing  a  semi-circle  after  making  the 
usual  ''  Salam  alaSram,  alukmn  salam."  This 
mode  of  retirement  is  sometimes  attended  with 
ludicrous,  if  not  seiioua  conaequmces,  as  I  onco 
witnessed ;  an  unfortunate  foreign  military  attache 
(one  of  hia  spurs  having  got  entangled)  taking 
what  the  French  call  hunicffoualy  "  un  billet  de 
partsETe,"  to  the  no  smaU  glee  of  the  mischief*" 
tovEsg  yoKn^paDceneB  pm«nL 

I  have  seen  th«  tntm  tatmeoier  used  otherwise 
than  in  the  irumige.  When  that  brilliant  voons 
naval  officer,  the  ^ince  de  Joinville,  appoarea  with 
his  &igate  be&re  San  Juan  d'Dlloa  at  the  taking 
of  Ver^-Crua,  a  French  newspapw  said:  "Le 
jrance  est  VKin  crinemeet&iiQ  atraeoUr  LaBella- 
Poule  an  vua  des  forts." 

There  waa  another  kind  of  evotation  is  dancing 
much  in  vogue  at  the  court  of  Catherine  de  Uo- 
dicis.  It  was  of  Italian  origin,  as  its  name  tmplleB, 
La  Pmmu  (from  jPmw  for  Padaoa),  It  canaated 
in  a  alow  majeatic  step :  hemce  wo  say  in  French, 
"  se  pavaaer,  moicher  d'one  mani^  grave." 

P.  A.  L. 

'Bxovassrij,  Badqes,  Mottob,  bto,  (S^  S. 
pMwm;  4^^  S.  iil  194,  312,  390.)— I  have  iiot 


noticed  any  reply  to  the  inquiir  reapecting  t 

iug  and  onpn  of  the  pigtail,  saidby  SsBi 

(p.  312)  to  be  worn  by  the  o  ~ 


21st  Begiment,     I  understand  that  it  is  die  23id 
Royal  Welsh  Fusiliers  who  wear  this  pecnliar  ap- 
pendage, and  not  the  2tst  North  Britiah  Fusiliers. 
The  28th  Regiment,  familiarly  known  as  the 
Slaters,'*  being  attadced  in  firont  and  leai^  &ced 
about,  aud  iu  that  novel  position  repelled  the 
Lcquired  the  diatinctiou  of  wear- 
in  front  and  mar.    (See  Stoc- 
q.ueler'e  BritiA  S(Mer,  p,  85.) 

The  34th  Regiment  have  had  confirmed  to  them 
the  laurel  wreath,  bnt  were  unable  to  prove  its 
in^,  as  the  regimental  records  were  lost  about 


Jkhhoite  Akks  (4'»  S.  vi.  458,  563.)— Tha 
arms  of  Dr.  Edward  Jennar  of  Berkeley,  acc<ad- 
ing  to  FodiD<du  in  his  Biographical  AaecdoUi  <f 
Dr.  Jamer,  ware—"  Az.  two  swords,  erect  in  cher- 
ron^atgen^  hilta-BBd  poDuneiaor,  between. Quee 

Digiiizec  by  Vn *-'*-^!^  I *-" 


NOTES  AND  QUEIBIES. 


[4»S.T!I.  JtrsB  84,-71. 


between  torn  fleurs'de-lu.  Cieat:  a  grejhoiuid 
acgaut,  uble.  Uotto:  "In  pretiDin  peMevero." 
On  Ida  father's  tomb,  in  Berkele;^  church,  same 
anna  impaling  Eeftd.  H.  KCobfhut, 

Lasi  Oriskblxxvbs  (i'*  8.  tiL  476.) — The 
ballad,  with  its  music  and  histoir,  ia  pnatad  in 
GhaDpell's  Rypuiar  Mume  of  th«  Olden  Time 
(i,  2§0^.  The  picture  ia  not  ezpltuned  by  it  unless 
tbe  "  dead-colU  colour  "  of  the  kdj's  uce  Da  cod- 
ndeied  to  typify  her  coldness  to  her  lover :  — 


"  'ner  Bet  thee  np,  thej  took  thee  down. 

They  served  UiB       

Thv  foot  might  n< 
And  yet  tnon  Tranldit  not  lore  me." 


It  ODce  touch  tne  Eroand, 


HiremarrBPBE. 

"  OB  "VxBSXs"  (4"' S.  viL 475.)— 
A  word  with  a  Binilar  significnon  as  the  above, 
yis.  "to  be  overahaded,  and  pronounced  as  if 
written  owmered,  is  in  common  use  in  North  Lan- 
cashire. Jahbs  FnABSDir, 

Uilnmr, 

"St."  asbbevutbd  to  "T."  (S"*  8,  pamm; 
4"-  S.  vii.  479.)— In  Norfolk  parlance  "it"  ia 
Keneiall;^  ebbrevisted  to  f  oi  fe.  I  was  wtuldng 
for  a  train  at  a  rulvraj  station  this  afternoon ;  as 
soon  OS  it  came  in  sight,  a  boy  called  out  "Here 
U  come."  O.  A.  C, 


bride  of  EUertou,  in  Heskelv  co.  Cumberland,  who 
died  in  1677,  was  the  last  descendant  of  Adam, 
second  aon  of  Odard  de  Logea,  aecond  baron  of 
Wigton  (circa  1206).  NuraoD. 

Tm  Chetboh  (4"^  S.  tu.  408,  467.)— Eobson, 
in  voL  iii.  of  his  Sriliah  Seratd,  after  describing 
a  bezant^  which  ia  believed  to  represent  a  coin  of 


"  That  iti  latcDdnetloa  Into  coat  amour  is  rappoKd 
to  have  taken  place  at  the  time  of  the  Pint  Craaade,  or 
Hoi;  War,  lod  noce  benu  by  the  dcsoeDdanU  of  the 
CbainpiDna  of  Chriitiamty  In  that  and  the  succeeding 

S.  P.  mOT  have  had  thia,  or  a  mmilar  passage, 
in  bis  mind,  when  he  asked  hia  chevron  que^. 

Evxbtbodi'b  BTrsmxss  is  Nqbosi's  BusnTEas 
(4<^  8.  vii.  463.)— I  oOen  wish  that  a  list  were 
made&om  vour  earlieat  pages  downwards,  of  que- 
ries which  nave  never  been  in  any  way  answered. 
The  truth  of  this  proverb  would  abundantly  ap- 
peal thereby. 

As  to  its  antiquity,  I  can  carry  it  back  at  leaet 
SHj  years  before  Lokd  LTTTKtroM'a  reference — to 
Walton's  Complete  Angler,  where,  part  i.  c.  ii,  he 
•ays, "  I  nmember  that  a  wiae  truai  of  mine  did 


oanally  aay,  'That  which  ia  everybody's  bnaiiieas 
is  nobody's  bunnees.' "  VrHCKHi  8.  Leajt. 

Sib  Hob.  KiLuaaBw:  BuSLAiciCHi  (4**  8.  viL 
4£4.) — The  State  Papers,  domeetdc  and  forelKDt 
entecially  the  latter,  oi  the  latter  part  of  the  reign 
of  James  L  and  the  early  part  of  Charlea  I.,  are 
fall  of  notices  of  Pliilip  Bnrlamachi  He  -waa  a 
great  capitalist,  with  correspondents  in  different 
commercial  centres  in  Enrope,  who  waa  much 
employed  by  the  government  to  transmit  oaa- 
siderable  sums  of  money  abroad  for  the  lue  of 
ambaasadots  and  for  uie  payment  of  troops; 
occasionally  also  to  sdvance  the  sums  required. 
In  this  way  his  name  is  frequently  to  be  found  in 
the  issue  Irnks  of  the  Exchequer. 

S.  B.  Oabdikeb. 

lnQie^ounmtj^tlieIUiyalInftiiutitmofa>niKaO, 
juat  iaaued  to  the  members  and  subscribers,  ia  a 
■'  Memoir  of  the  Family  of  Eilligrew,"  written  by 
Mr.  Martin  Killigrew  in  1737  or  1738.  Thia  may 
perhnpe  afford  some  information  which  may  \» 
acceptable  to  Mb.  Hbss£L8.  After  disposing  of  the 
elder  branch  of  the  family,  |the  writer  proceeds 
to  apeak  of  the  younger;  and  insamoch  aa  tha 
Journal  has  not  a  veiy  wide  circulation,  and  may 
--'^'e  by  non-membeia,  peibaps 
usual  courtesy,  will  allow 
me  to  tiespass  upon  his  space  with  the  foUowing 
extract:—^ 

"  CoQcernlcf;  (be  younger  branch  of  the  familv,"  tbe 
writer  aaj^  "That  Thomas  and  Svmon,  eons  of  Siiioho 
Eilligrew,  2°^  Governor  of  PeoSennia  Cutle,  were  ia 
great  esteem  with  Queeo  |£Uubeth  and  aoqnired  a  great 
ertate.  Sir  Robert  Eilliiraw  wai  aty*  beadoTUiB  2"^ 
biancb,  Ylce  Cbsmberlun  to  King  Charka  y  Snt'a 
Qn«n,  and  left  bis  great  possesions  to  bit  efahot  ion. 
Sir  W"  Killigrew  ;— several  younger  «ons  maldng  rreU 
figorea  in  y  world,  and  four  fine  dangbter^  bmed  fi>r 
their  Wit  and  BeanU-,  and  from  thence  pnfored  in 
marriage,  one  to  j'  Eiil  of  Yormoatli,  another  to  Lord 
Shannon,  a  third  to  Berkeley  Lord  Fiti-Harding,  and  j' 
other  to  Qodoiphin  of  ComwalL  Y*  said  yoonger  snu 
of  V*  said  Sii  Bobert  making  tbdr  way  at  Coort  by  their 
Wit,  w^,  for  want  of  pmdenoe,  was  y*  ruin  of  j'  Kami 
branch  of  this  family,  Btlll  exeepling,  with  jiu*  regard 
to  his  memory,  Henry,  one  of  y*  youngest  bods  of  y*nid 
Sir  Robert,  bred  to  y>Chnicli  and  of  great  Estoem  thereiD, 
Governor  to  y*  Earl  of  Devonihiie'e  boos,  since  by  King 
William  created  Ihike  of  DevODlbire,  also  Preceptor  to 
y<  lata  Duke  of  York,  King  James  y*  2°',  by  style  of  D' 
Killigrew,  Maalsr  of  y  Savoy  and.  Prebend  of  Weat- 
minster,  who  had  two  Mns,  Hanry  and  James,  boUl  bred 
to  the  Sea.  His  aon  Heniy,  a  man  of  strict  bonor,  by 
long  service  arrived  to  eommand  y*  Fleet  of  England 
under  King  Wm.,  iay*  late  war  with  France  well  known 
by  y*  DBma  of  Admiial  KilligTSW,  whoae  yonnger  brother, 
Jamea,  B,t  21  years  of  im  was  hoooored  withy*  connnand 
of  b  men  of  war  in  y<  Straights ;  where  about  the  bdght 


of  L^bom  ho  met  with  and  en^ged  S  French  n 

war,  bigger tha "^' ^----t->. '•■-. 

tains  proVedCc 
ha  took  01 


er  than  sin-  of  his,  and  yet  tho'  two  of  his  Cap- 
red  Coward*  and  would  not  eoroe  to  hia  aisiBt- 


. ofthel 

bntat  theazpeoaeof  hlsownUA^aodUiat  ofmoatofUa 
r,ai)  glorious  an  I^  did  y<  II       "         """ 


yumt  Jamea  ElUt- 


aS-VIL  JtraaJl,?!.] 


NOTES  AKD  QUBEIE& 


gmr  nuka ;  w^  two  Cowlid  Captalm  for  7*  pnwmt  from 
J*  death  of;'  aud  Comiiunder  eaopsd  Ponuliment;  bi;'' 
BODW  years  ifler,  apon  a  second  mlabehSTiaiir,  wen  eoi 
demned  and  shot  at  PlTinontli.  Siiby  was  the  name  1 
one  of  them."* 
Hammeramith.  JosH  Maclbak. 

"Eonaa"  (4*  S.  vii.  43L>— That  this  word 


its  modem  sense  br  Queen  Elizabeth,  passae  all 
bounds  of  belief.  With  all  her  faults  she  did  not 
make  dllj  uameaning  lemarks;  and  suielj  it 
would  have  been  utterlj  aiUj  in  her  to  aaj  abe 
did  not  wish  a  low  ruffian  to  succeed  hei  on  the 
throne.  One  cannot  accept  the  Italian  Scaramelli 
as  good  authority  for  aiplsiniiig  an  obacuie  sajing 
of  the  dying  qneen.  Does  anj  Engliah  writer  of 
the  time  mention  that  Elizabeth  used  the  woid 
roi^A, as  reported  bjlk.MotleyP  {Unittd Ntlher- 
loMdt,  iv.  138.)  ^d  the  won  been  common  in 
her  daj,  we  should  suieljmeet  with  U  in  writings 
of  the  period ;  it  would  not  haye  lain  dormant  for 
more  uian  two  hundred  yean.  A  word  that  has 
escaped  the  notice  of  Naies,  Wright,  and  HalU- 
weli  (see  Naree'  QioMory,  ed.  1859)  canpot  have 
been  in  uae  during  the  seventeenth  century ;  and 
unless  some  ^ood  English  authority  be  produced 
for  Queen  Elizabeth  hanng  used  this  word  rough, 
I  must  altogether  disbeUeve  that  she  did  so.  If 
ehe  Dtteied  any  word  havinfr  that  sound,  it  might 
pcsaiblj  have  been  tuff.  The  "tuff,"  although 
tvom  by  men  of  the  upper  class,  was  in  Queen 
^Elizabeth's  time  an  especially  female  article  of 
dress,  and  the  queen  might  have  said  "  I  will  have 
no  ruff  to  succeed  me,''  just  as  now-a-days  one 
might  say  "  I  will  have  no  petticoat  goremment." 
I  must  however,  wait  for  some  better  authority 
than  that  of  the  Italian  Scaramelli  before  I  can 
believe  that  Queen  Elizabeth  used  either  the  word 
rough  or  ruff  when  consulted  as  to  her  wishes 
respecting  her  successor  on  the  throne.     Jaxdbk, 


^t<»natttmi<. 
S0TE8  OS  BOOKS,  ETC. 
Till  Hols  Biblt,    according  to  tht  AuAoHud  Veriion 
(AJ>.  1611) ;  mlh  on  JSxplanaiwu  and  Critical  Com- 
mentary, and  a  Bmiion  of  Ikt  Thnulatian  bv  ftildpt 
and  other  dergt/  of  the  Jnglitan  Church,     Edited  ba 
P.  C.  Cook,  MAt  Canon  at  Exeter.    Vol.  /,  Part  I. 
Getiait,  Exod^.      Vol.  I.,  Part  II.  LeBiticm,  iViiR- 
bert,  Deuteroitotn!/.     (Hurray.) 
The  Sposkec  did  good  servile  to  the  cause  at  rellgtong 
trath  when  be  broDsht  ander  tbe  notice  of  the  beads  of 
the  Chnroh  the  adTisabUity  of  providing  ■  Commenlsry 
upon  the  Sacred  Books,  in  which  the  latest  jnlbrrnatioD 
might  be  made  accessible  to  men  of  ordinary  culture : 
M  that  every  educated  man  should  have  accees  to  some 


•  "Wade  was  the  name  of  the  other.  They  were  shot 
in  Plymonth  Sound  in  1702  for  cowardice  in  Beobow's 
Action  with  Du  Caaee,  in  the  West  Indies,  and  were 
buried  in  Charles  Chnreb,  Plymonth." 


won  in  wueh  he  mifibt  Bad  an  •xplanation  of  any  diffl- 
cnJtita  which  bis  own  mind  ml^t  Boggeat,  as  weA  aa  of 


ibjectiona  raised  aninst  any  particalar  book  «r 
passage.  The  want  of  anch  Commentary  has  indeed  been 
long  and  deeply  felt  by  large  dosses  of  intelligent  Church- 


men.  Bat  It  Is  ■  fu  easier  matter  to  pmnt  ont'a  want  thui 
to  devise  the  meana  of  (applying  it;  and  it  wasnotmidl 
■ftar  long  and  anzloiu  consideration  that  the  Archbishop 
of  Totk,  and  the  companv  of  divines  who  were  bsn- 
dated  with  him  in  the  endeavoor  tt>  organise  a  plan  fbr 
tlie  eSh^oal  cartyinff  oat  of  the  great  o^ect  propoaed  by 
the  Speaker,  saw  th&  way  to  ovsroomiog  the  difficulties 
with  which  the  andertaking  was  anoooipaased.  Hot  the 
least  of  these  was  the  neecBrity  of  keeplag  the  Commen- 
tary within  the  limits  which  woold  make  it  acceesible  to 
those  for  whom  it  was  more  especially  intended  j  and 
boondlees  as  is  the  sabject.  It  has  been  decided  to  com- 
prise the  Text  and  Commentary  in  eight  volnmee. 
Another  dtfficnlty  arose  fioia  tbe  neoessity  of  treatioff 
sabjecta  requiring  a  good  desl  of  mesxch,  historical  aid 


SQch  studies.    This  has  been  01 .  ._ ^ 

aoles  or  essays  to  the  end  of  the  boolu  ot  chsplsn  to 
which  they  refer,  where  they  can  be  fbnnd  by  these  who 
desire  them.  To  a  CommitU^  formed  for  tlie  purpose, 
was  left  the  selection  of  the  writers  of  the  variooa  leetiaia 
of  the  whole,  bdng  divided  into  mgbt  sections— and  c^tbe 
general  editor.  TaBliaOa  Important  dn^  was  entinsted 
to  the  Rev.  F.  C,  Cook,  Canon  of  Exeter  and  Preacher  of 
Lincoln's  Inn,  with  whom  are  associated,  as  a  small  Com- 
mittee of  KeDvence  in  cases  of  difflcol^,  the  Archbishop  of 
York,  with  the  Beeias  Frofesson  of  Divinity  of  Oxford 
and Cambfidge.  Theteztselectedaatlieba^ofUie Com- 
mentoiT  ia  uie  Anthorised  Tenion  from  the  edition  of 
1611.  The  first  section  of  tiw  Commentary  is  now  belhra 
ns,  forming  a  volume  (in  two  Farts)  of  apwarda  of  nine 
hundred  pages.  The  Book  of  Gemetit  ha*  been  tbe  woA 
of  the  Bishop  of  Ely;  fmbi,^  (he  twentieth  cbaptsr, 
of  the  editor  1  the  ronalnder  of  that  book,  and  LevUiait, 
of  tbe  Eev.  Samnel  Clark,  TIcar  of  Bredworden;  while 
yiantert  and  Deuteroaomy  have  been  the  Joint  labour  of 
the  Rev.  T.  E.  Eapin,  Warden  of  Queen's  College,  Bir- 
mingham, and  the  Rev.  J.  F.  Thmpp,  M.A.,  late  Vicar  of 
Barrington.  From  what  we  have  Chns  ilaled,  it  will  be 
readily  seen  how  great  are  the  claims  of  this  New  Bible 
Commentsry  to  general  acceptance,  and  the  oaliafoction 
with  which  Its  appearance  cannot  fail  to  be  hailed  by 
those  earnest  Chnrchmen  who  have  long  felt  the  want 
of  snch  a  galde  to  the  profitable  study  of  the  Holy 
Scriptures. 

One 


BiufngMeal  JUfercuct,  nnlaining 
id  Nairn,  together  aith  a  Clamfied  In 
icai  Ititeraturr  nf  Europe  aiid  Aster 


Low.) 

There  is  one  fact  stated  in  this  title-page  which  mnst 
commend  the  book  to  gCDeral  attention,  namely,  that  it 
contains  one  handred  uonsand  names,  so  that  whoever 
conaalta  It  for  information  respecting  any  man  who  has 
ever  made  himself  a  name  from  Julias  Caear  to  Edmnnd 
Cnrll,  may  be  pretty  sure  of  finding  io  it  fA«  more  oro- 
'  dale*  OTtd  faeti  ia  the  lifo  of  the  iDdividnal  In- 
after,  and  m  addition  a  reference  to  the  works  of 
recondite  natnrc,  in  which  fuller  information  may 
d  if  needed.  It  is  thiswliich  gives  a  peculiar  and 
most  nsefU  character  to  the'  Dictionary,  not  of  dmple 
Biography,  but  of  KoKraphical  RcArence.     How  great 


itowed  Dpon  Its      . 


NOTES  AUD  QUERIES. 


[l*  e.  Vn.  3mm  M,  71. 


rpintioD  nnrbclMmedfrani  hi>pnhee,whldiriioold 
carefiillj  nad.  Bnt  tha  book  to>  asMher  v«7  aaeltl 
ftttnra.  It  is  npcOcnnted  by  a  HUiogrqA*  of  BJo< 
gnpbr  in  tin  abape  oT  thrae  dnaad  ladexea  of  Woib 
vpoo  mognphr.  The  first  i«  an  Intac  of  Goneral  Bie- 
grapblea  claued  aCMtdbiK-to  tte  Intgnagag  Id  whieh  tkaf 
an  wrttlaa ;  tba  next  af  Rotiaaal  BiofenpUei  afia^ed 
In  CanntiieB.  and  mbdlirided  Into  PnrriDcea  and  Qtne; 
and  tlie  last,  of  CtanorParticiifBTBioenpMnanaiwed 

Xbctically  aad  ■ecording  to  Oonntnea  and  Citica. 
layiiig  betOre  our  readeia  tbese  noUa  lIloBtratiTe  at 
Om  objects,  ecope,  and  eictcnt  at  (he  work  in  qntsttoo,  it 
is  scarcelj  necwssry  that  we  rfiBiild  give  onr  opinion 
tliat  it  is  a  book  wtiich  m  deaiined  to  take  a  pflrmuiaiit 
and  fonmoM  place  amimg  biDgT«[M<ial  taxt  boaki  and 


Tit  mU  iMout    a  liHigoaan.      Bi/  Frederic  Edm. 

(Ei^&Cs.) 

Written  in  a  bri^  and  fihaunt  atjla.  and  full  of 
pntstiail  nmnnon  wnM,  thia  book  will  bs  loimd  a  most 
TalaaUs  eompamcm  to  an;  wbo,  chilled  by  tbe  cold,  and 
wvaried  b7  tbe  Iragth  of  odt  EogUah  winter,  maj  wish 

.-  _^ ^  jj,  Egypt  witkoot  indnlgisg  in  (bat  mat' 

a  DragomaD. 


£Mtit&  oad  SCBtA  HatBrical  BoBadi.    Edited,  ni 

Iittnd^tim,  SoUt,  cud  Olouaryfiir  the  Use  ofSchnoU, 
tyAKfaorMUaun,UjL|lateStnaeDtorChriBtCliQrch, 
Oxfted,    (Longmaiu.) 

A  -irril-eDnKdeMd  «w^  on  Uu  nature  of  popular 
poatiy  preparw  tha  nadar  for  tba  explauatoi?  aketabea 
wjtb  which  the  aaveral  '""■■''t,  eeleclad  hy  the  editor, 
an  inUvdao^  Theaa,  with  the  iUoatrated  notai  and 
l^o«ait7.  fonn  ■  littla  Tslame  for  which  every  icbool- 
br^  into  whose  baade  it  nmy  be  plaoed  will  ackaowledga 
his  obligiticnis  te  Ht.  ICilnaa. 

Remaria  and  8*ggatKna  m  lie  SelMmt  far  tkt  Comfit- 
(ton  q^  8l.  PobTi  CaOttdnJ.  By  GvxgB  EdaiaDd 
Street,  A.R.A.  Ac  (Rivingtona.) 
A  Lmer  to  U(  F^ery  Jteo.  the  Dean  of  81.  PaoTl,  prinitd 
al  Ihe  Jbneit  of  Ou  Eriaiti^  Commute,  for  lie  dm- 
sMm  list.  FoMCt  Cathedral  By  F.  H.  Sutton, 
vleacof  Thaddingworth.  (Kivingtons.) 
The  fomer  of  them  pamphtete  troate  of  the  propoaed 
mnial  deooratioii  of  St.  Panra  {  and  who  has  a  betlei 
rigbt  to  be  heaid  on  uuh  a  eal^ect  than  Mr.  Street  1 
whilit  Mr.  Sotton'a  letter  is  principally  taken  up  with 
dJBciLsafBg  the  ityle  of  painted  glass  that  shonld  be  intra, 
daced  into  tha  Cathedral.  Both  eonlrrbnlions,  as  well  ae 
our  own  colomns,  testify  to  tbo  variely  of  opinion  that 
exists  on  these  sabjects.  We  tboronglily  B^rnia  with 
if  r.  Btre«t  when  be  aseerts  that  no  one  knowi  what  Wicn 
intended  to  do  in  the  way  of  decoratiaD,  otherwise  liow  is 
thie  variety  of  opinioii  to  be  aocounled  for  ?  nay,  the 
very  works  carried  on  dnring  the  kst  few  years  within 
tba  building— now,  happily,  to  be  hU  undone— witness  to 
not  a  f^  and  by  no  means  inezpansivs  leaps  in  the  dark. 
Without  endorsing  all  Mr.  Street's  c^tinione — we  confess 
tofeariog  thattheobjectianitatedat  p.]3  tothecanying 
OBt  of  his  deaiini  would  prove  iuaupetRide— we  eaxnratly 
trvst  that  theConunittee  will  lisl«Q  to  his  words  of  warn- 
ing. For  onr  own  pert  wa  sbonld  like  to  see  the  works 
at  pnaent  confined  to  freeing  the  walls  of  their  wretched 
ooBts  of  point,  deaning  tbe  windows,  asd  the  removal  of 
tbe  OTgaus;  for.  only  when  these  operations  shall  have 
been  complisted,  will  it  be  known  tenv  Ut  the  Cathedral 
will  adaut  of  mural  deeoiUlon  and  tbe  tzoloiion  of  broad 
daylight. 


read  ■  paper  "  On  the  Dale  of  the  Nativity,"  ctmodsing 
In  datailtiia  facts  ofthatoeeurrenee,  and  tbe  gov^mment 
of  Cyrenius  and  the  Census  of  Cosar,  as  reconled  la  die 
Gospel  and  by  Joeephns.    Tbe  vartens  eelipssa  and  aatao- 


Lord  to      . 

^ring  of  2  before  tbe  Christian  Em. 

STEiSBnaon  IjBBAitT. — The  UnivBrdty  of  Ozftnl, 
br  a  decree  in  convocation,  has  anthorised  the  deiuuMtcj 
o?  the  press  to  contrihato  copiaa  of  saeh  works  printad  Iry 
themas  they  may  tbiiA  fit  141  tbe  iibiaiy  of  the  Daivec- 
ai^  of  Sbaahuigh,  and  that  tha  Tolnme  so  preaented  by 
them  be  bound. 

The  Bistoricu:.  Soi;FBrT.~-TUs  Society  held  its 
sixth  Meeliag  far  tiie  SessioD  in  the  Scottish  Corpora- 
tioQ  HsU,  Crane  Court,  Fleet  Street,  on  Hooda^  eremng. 
Sir  Johu  Bowring  in  the  chair.    Tbe  fellowuig  papers 


1  the  Records  of 


to  1600,"  by  J.  H.  Cowper,  Bsq.,  Fellcnr  of  the  SoMly ; 
and  "  An  Official  tnacenran  Baspootug  the  Doalb  aad 
BnrnI  of  Prinosas  Mary,  Daaghlei  of  King  Janea  L", 
bv  Colonel  Chester.  Fallow  of  the  Sodety.  An  interaatinr 
discussionfollowed-  The  papers,  it  was  agread,  shoald 
be  included  in  the  Society's  Transadions. 

Mr,  S.  K.  Townbhert)  Mater  has  rrngned  tbe  ofi- 
torsbip  of  the  lUuelmted  Bemtie, 

Us.  Grote.— It  has  been  truly  said  that  by  the  dsalli 
of  George  Grate  this  country  has  been  robbed  of  obs  of 
its  chief  literary  omsments.  Bern  in  I7M  at  Bedn>- 
haminKant,Hidh 
tbe  future  hktorian  of  Q 
ing-hoDse  in  his  sixteeolb  year,  devoting  all  his  spare 
time  to  classical  studies.  How  profonnd  a  Qreek  aeholir 
he  became  hia  Hiitory,  as  wdl  known  in  Owmaw-  aa 
Eoglaad.  end  of  which  the  firat  volno*  apptarad  in  IMS, 
sufficiently  tettHlea.  Plato  amd  tht  oOtr  qemtmimt  of 
Soerata  was  completed  md  patdiA^  in  18(6,  tmt  iu- 
fortunately  the  Arittitle  will  remain  an  naGniahed  work, 
only  one  volnme  being  ready  for  the  pWB.  Mr.  GrMe 
WB3  a  tjnstee  of  the  British  Husenm,  and  hia  portiait  ky 
Millais,  in  thia  year's  exhitntion  of  tbe  Koyal  AcMteny, 
as  Vice-Chsncellor  of  London  University,  testifies  to  the 
grstitnde  felt  by  members  of  Convocation  for  their  cbam- 

Mr.  Bolton  Comet's  LrnsAiir.— The  sals  of  the 
library  of  the  lal«  Mi.  Bolton  Comsy  was  oondnded  la 
BataTday,at  the  Boaou  of  Hens.  Sotheby,  Wilkinaon,  A 
Hodge.  One  of  the  chiaf  featurea  waa  the  coUaallan  of 
early  voyages  and  travels  and  works  rclatiag  to  Aioeiiea, 
all  of  which  excited  nnidi  competition  and  brooght  vary 
high  prioee,  aa  will  be  seen  from  the  following  qoota- 
tion;— <S18)  Basanier,  Histoire  Notable  de  la  Floride, 
168E,  S6f.— (710)  Champlain,  Voyages  en  la  Nonvaile 
France,  1627,  3il.  l(bi.~(S13)  The  cdebnted  Letter  «f 
Columbos,  being  the  first  iirinted  document  known  relat- 
to  America:,  consisting  of  four  leavra,  1498,  116/.— (SI4) 
Hiatorie  del  Fernando  Colombo,  1571,  16(.  I6i.— <USI) 
Endso,  Suma  de  Geographia  qae  trsta  de  todas  las  Par- 
tidas  del  Mundo,  the  flrstl>aok  printed  in  Spsnish  rehtting 
to  America,  1619,  66/.— (1SD4)  Enwdelle,  Nova  Franeia, 
160»,  871.— (12aS)£scobar,RaaaiKemdel  Cavallerod  Cid, 
1612,  16/.- (lS4i)  F>obisher,  Tnie  Duooarea  of  the  UU 
Voyages  of  Diseoverie,  1678,  671- (1*12)  Gilbert's  Dis- 
course of  a  Diacoveriefbr  aNewPaamge  to  Cataia,  1576,46/. 


l-^S.  VII.  JuMX  24,71.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


— (1107)G«ldniiitli,ndnScMchuBLi 
Dr.  GobumiUi,  aodin  his  Autogrftph,  3f 
Struige  ud  Daiig«        " 
tvris   Anglerii  Ofc 

M»iiniili*ni   '" 

82/.  10..-™     . 

C^ief*  de  Vac»,  1655,  39£  lOi.— (2488)  Ovifldo,  Hial 


Eidatoluom,  1530,  431.— {21U) 
TraDsj^Tani  Cnuiis  a  Secretis  Euistala, 

?tOO)  NiiSez,  La  Belacioo  de)  Alnar  St  ~ 
■ca,  1655,  39£  10..~(2488)  Ovifldo,  Hi 
;  Indiaa,  1547,  29/.  10..— (2623)  U  PortoUno,  1490, 
84/.  lOi.— (2904)  Schonten'a  SelBtion  of  a  Wonderful! 
Voiage,  1618,  22/.— (3029)  Smith's  Dascription  of  New 
England,  IGIO,  ibl.  10>. — (3329)  Viithenm,  Itinerario, 
1618,  30L— (8355)  TnpntiuB  (AmerieosV  Paesl  Noaa- 
mcnte  lUtitnatl,  at  Naoa  Uaaio  da  AlbWios  Vespotlo, 
1607,157/.    l:hetMdaa>i»iUiBali«KlwaaS,U»/.9*.6iL 


St. — Tht  KBfing,  "Set  koK  Ou 
aaatitr,"  i.   mitictd  by  TertuBiem  la  a  remari  current 
among  the  healhai.     Sea  "N.  &  Q."  3'^  S.  i.  488. 

C.  &.  D. — DtmatpM  comet  vjaa  ditcovertd  by  Dr.  Donatt 
ofFloreiKt,  Just  2,  186S,  aid  mu  viiiblt  a  Ilagland  in 
the  md  of  SepternbtT  and  itt  October  tfdiatym: 

Tafkstbt  PoBXEUza. —  Th*  ipecimai  alluded  to  at 
p.  eil,  it  to  it  tee»ai  Mr.  Gilterft,  Bernard  Street, 
*   Sovihampion. 

M.  T.  (Frome-Selwood.)— iVo  nirtin>lBr(  ^  Jdat 
EiMgelou  art  gicat  in  Maiaiitg  an4  Bray'iSaxtef. 

Jambb  Gilbbbt. — C^.  JSdiBard  Sttriinp  mt  ThomoM 
Bamet-  wot  lit  « TUmidinr itfTbt  timet,"  at  rtohrfn 
Themat  CorfyU'i  LHb  ef  John  SterHnf,  ed.  1S51,  p.  16; 
F.  K.  ITwif  I  Fourth  EMata,  iL  177  |  anf  CSsk/T.  Ko- 
gnplucal  Diotiooaiy. 

pAUkimss  haeebten  deeerihtd  in '^'S.  iQ."  1*<S.^ 
87, 172,  2S1  ;  8«  a  i  262. 


vyi-<i 


diMtUSrftM 


C.  E.  B.  (Feckham)  ttundd  have  etaltd  ahert  he  pichcd 
tg)  tueh  a  queer  word  at  Projcjo;  ;  for  ae  hi  face&naly 
uofi,  "  it  u  BD(  to  be  fo>Bid  in  tte  AeaMiw  ofcre,  or  tke 
earA  baaaOt,  or  Que  mten  wadtr  (Ac  eiwOt."  It  lotAe 
hie  a  rattle  eormptian  of  Progeny. 

T.  X'GoArn.—Tht  error  it  mite  emaabk.  Aiu/  one 
taneeethatititamerfGpofOupen. 

F.  W.  B.  (Bath.)— .^a  ElSni^  afitiBa  of  Bwmt'i 
Toetat,  17Sfi,  ii  wORDirn.  The  firit  edition  ma  printid 
at  KSmarmi*  ta  1786  ;  eat  tke  teeeml  etHtion  at  £ifi»- 
bur^  bf  ITm.  Omek  ta  1787. 

C.A.W.(,atrFai.)-FbrA>  edUumioftMemaedt 
la  Boi6e't  mtrk  oa  TtJnMatr  Serrltnde  conenll  Brunei, 

«ii(.  1862,  UL  711.    AnJSmgHth  eOtiom  

1736. 


WORKS  ON  ABT. 


Hn  mdr.alUi  muCntlau,  i  TalLSn.  Ul 

A  HISTORY  of  PAINTING  in  ITALY,  bam 

tbt  Ind  In  the  uth  Cmlua^  »  X.  A.  OOKS  hA  O.  B. 

CATALCABBU^. 

A   rnSTOHY   OF  PAINTING  IN  NOETH 
1TAI.T.  vmitt,  n 


MEMOIRS    OF    THE    EARLY   ITALIAN 


HANDBOOK  of  PAINTING;  the  Italian,.  Ger-  . 


tut  Hilt  In  ■'Udi  tiiii  bi 


JOBS  KtrSSAT,  ADoMdaMfat 


byCiOO«^[C 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES. 


C4<k  S.  Til.  JtiKK  S4,  TU 


rPHE  APOCRYPHAL  OOSPELS  and  othai  DOCU- 

JL  UaimftiUlH  to  ttaHtSTOKT  of  CHRIST.   TniluUMIMa 

■Tlw  'TWdon  li  nil  tncnKd.  u4  Uu,  tmulltDT'l  FrulnimiDI 

Hit  K«wnJi*nvT  of  th 
MultiH«."-J^iir 


Pila  ;>.  *A,  oDini  (TO,  dMk. 

THB  LE6ENII8  and  THBOHIES  of  the  BUDD- 


HUTS  COHFABED  vHjb  QITTORT  ud 


■"SM*^  J4?£e^Jf'  f"^  (^  Oanua  otFR.  DIBZ.  villi 
Hornln^ii  i^^n.  ndud  u  oh  iI^Sk.  tMta  Jt  £anid  li 


AS  INTBODUCTIOK  to  Uie*CFBABUUR  of  the 


BOPF9    COMPABATIVE    ORAKMAE    of  the 
FilM  111.  liL,  no.  doth. 

QABNETT'S  IJNGUISTIC  ESSATa— Th«  Phi- 

'i^lE'^^BSS'tS^hUB^  *'^'  '^'^BABD  QABMETT.    EdIM. 
LATHAM'S  FHILOLOaiCU.  BSBArB-^PrlM  to,,  m.  doth. 
PHILOLOGICAL,     ETHNOGRAPHICAL,     aai 

0*«  MS^^Bj^O.  L&THAU,  M.D..  F  JL8,,  EdltDr  of  John- 

Cnnni  aro.  doth,  pilct  M.  U. 
TEE  XOBAN.     Translated  from  the  Arabic,  with 

Sift^^il^fi^.  ROD  WM^^lS  ,  B^mTofBLES^hS^ 


WILLUUS  «  NOBQATC  LmloaudEdliiliiuilu 


THE  PICTIOHABT  of  BIOOItAFHICAX 
BEFEBEHCE. 

BtL.B.  PHILLIPS,  F.RJk.S.    Contunt  One  Handid 
llKnuuid  Names,  and  .     .    «      .        . 


1  ToL  large  8to,  pp.  1 


THE  QE0ROIC8  OF  VIBGIL. 

TrauaUted  by  B.  D.  BLACEUOKE,  UJk^  Antba  U 
"  Loiiui  Dotne,"  ^  Small  post  Sro,  iioth  extra,  4i;  U 
"  Ttm  h  a  pnuhiT  °<ronX  »hj  up.  la  iIIiIbb  to  Drjea  mi 


"  ^10  tmulatoi  conblim  the  quallAadau  of  i  jfpo  k 


A  CLABSIFIEB  CATAIOOUE 

SCHOOL,   COLLEGE,    TECHNICAL,  AXI> 
OEIVEBAL  EDTTCATIONAL  WOBKB 

In  Uae  In  Great  BiitalD,  aitanged  accoidinslto  Siil9«i.<. 
The  ehort  leading  title,  with  the  autlior,  pnoe,  Biie,  ud 
pnblUber,  ot  nearly  10,000  Edocatlonal  Worka  will  ba 
riven,  tmagfii  eo  that  one  can  tell  at  a  glance  wbit 
Edacitional  Works  are  DOir  STallable  on  any  given  mb- 

iMt.  A  irork  of  tbia  kind  hae  nt — ""' — "" " — '"' 
n  1  TOL  Sto,  S<.  6d. 


LomfoaiaAMFSOHId 


7,  BOH,  a  UABS: 


BST0H,1M,FlMt8BHt. 


INDEX. 


FOURTH   SERIES.— VOL.  VII. 


A.  on  StmSord  funilf.  387 

A.  (A.  M.  B.)  im  "  Ii'»  ■  f«r  cty  to  Locb  Aw»,"  42 

Luke  dwtUiDgi  od  Loagb  Mncli,  4S 
Abhba  DCi  the  Btr.  H.  ¥.  Carr,  137 

Cirr  (Biahop  Mordccii),  465 

GenoiD  Lathena  churcb,  Dublin,  S4S 

Iriib  cor  ^nd  noddy,  23 
Accidents  Compenutian  Bill,  2S0,  373,  4Ge 
AccoiuUDce,  thi  aie  of  the  wotU,  49  S 
A.  (D.)  ia  DomeHJi}'  nprewnlatiTCS,  SOS 
Adam  of  Orlcton,  bishop  of  Wincbulsr,  S3,  308 
Addia  (Jofan)  on  blink  ver.  wiok,  460 

ChiDcer*  "  Sbipmso,''  SOB ;  "  Scluxt,'  361 ; 
■'Afwr  ooD,"  "Stoor,"  3B6i  "  Col-Fvi,"'  snd 
■■  GUtotbad,"  418 

CbSTluiuKO,  343 

"  Dolopitbos,  Iho  King  lod  Sena  WJM  Men,"  1 1 1 

DtTil  buling  bu  wife,  400 

Usrki,  Udiop  of  Csrildo.  1 90 

Poatr;  of  tb«  clouds,  397 

Point  d<  Tics,  449 

IiaUhs(,440 

Schoolnuuter  ibrnd  in  SUffi>rd>hirt,  465 

"  Stoiring  in  tbdr  own  grarj,"  £72 

Slotj  of  ■  lUtne,  SOO 

Vw:  r«H!:  fuH,  294 

Wum  =  wsdthj,  84 
AJTSDt  HjDin,  its  tnno,  41,  133,217 
£iolus  (Aleundw).  Gnek  post,  221,  292 
A.  (G.)  on  "Owll  that  lovut  ths  bodiiig  iky,"  S92 
A.  (G.  E.)  on  Sjrdnoy  Godotpliin,  462 
Aiagar  (Alfnd)  «i  "  Absslom  ud  Acbitopbel,'  53S 

"B««t  of  hB«t»,"399 
A.  (J.)  on  Uortimcr,  Evl  of  Uarch,  209 
Albansj  snd  AmondeviUe  familj  anna,  234,  312,  373 
Albert  (Prinoe),  ■  pncliul  engriTer,  20 
Alceitii,  Ur.  Leightm'a  pictnre  uf,  512 
Alcock  (Bp.  Jobn),  family  and  amu,  132,  334 
Alford  (Dr.  Henry),  dssn  of  CinterbDry,  de^b,   67, 
87 


AltiisofstoiMin  tb*  ABglioanebnrcb,  162 
Altiliom,  ■  coin,  143 
AnwriGan  literary  nno,  Ihoir  woallb,  47 
Amiss  (E.)  OD  Dandy  rolla,  534 
Ammergan  paasloo  plaT,  29S,  487 
AnsrkiU,  bvauiite  vifa  of  Akhir,  321 
ADir-Ealli,  page  of  the  emperor  of  HiodDilaii,  385 
Angelo  (Michael),  "  Lut  Judgment,"  258 
Anglesey  (Marquis  of),  anecdote,  196 
Anglo-Scolna  on  William  Baliol,  432 

BothweU  (Francia,  Earl  of),  177 

BmM  (Robort),  bimes  and  coSn-sails,  379 

FrsBST :  Frisel,  330 

Laird,  who  is  one?  243 

Priory  of  St  Etlieman,  376 

Soger  (Sr  William),  Knt.,  242 

Spitten  Laiid,  310 
"  Anima  Cfarislt.'  i»  anthoi,  322,  374,  906 
Anne  (Queen),  fifty  nn 


Anne  of  Danmi 


1,  188 


rt  of  Jamea  I.,  engraTlng,  iS3' 


ABOurmoM  Work! : — 

Barnes  (Betty),  her  History,  342 

BertnuMJ,  or  Hsmmn  of  a  Mortbumbrlan  Nobtt- 

man,  95 
Cooftasioua  of  a  Gamsuar,  474 
CoKlliiid,  satirical  poem,  161,  270 
Essays  od  tba  Sonress  of  Pleasiu*  from  Litorsiy 

CompsutloDi,  4T4 
Essaja,  Diiriiw,  Hon),  and  Political,  418 
Exerdsss,  Instrnttire  and  EnterlainiDg,  40S 
First  Imprsesions,  or  a  Day  in  India,  26C,  354 
Fox's  Martyn,  a  saliro,  383 
Uiitory  of  Edward  II.,  IGBO,  29S 
Jesnmy  (Jenny),  her  History,  342 
Juhnson  (Dr.  Simael),  Life,  43 
Judgment  oo  a  Threefold  Order  of  Bishops,  493 
Lay  of  the  Scottiali  Fiddle,  16 
Lexiphanes,  IS 

Hary  Hsgdalen's  Tears  wip't  off,  95 
Mela  Britannkna,  76 
Memoirs  of  an  Old  Wig,  474 
Xapoleon,  the  First  Book  of,  tSS". 


>yCiOO«^IC 


Anonynoni  Work* : — 
PlmiDg  Ueluichol;,  54 
Poems  on  tbe  Foot  Lut  Tbingi',  539 
Borne  in  [he  Ninetcenili  Ontury.  33 
Shrobs  of  PuniisBds,  4 1 0.  4*8,  549 
Thirtf  Letters  on  Vmrioiis  Subjecte,  474 
TfaooghM  of  Patncias,  97 
Volame  of  Smoke  in  Two  FoWa,  474 


Wen 


^15 


Wbitabill,  or  tbe  D>;b  of  George  IV.,  15 
Anulip.  abp.  of  Culerbarj,  linca  on  hii  death,  364 
Aneoa  ^gate,  kcoouqu  dF  ira  wrack,  SOS 
A.  (0.  5.)  on  Bidgir,  166 

L>  Cincale,  34 
Ap  Coillaa  on  GrantbRm  inn  aigas,  440 
Applegalh  (AagnetDi),  bii  d«tb,  ]  S3 
Anbio  nnmenlB  in  Welle  catbednU.  SSS,  375 
Arbnthnot,  its  pronnnciatioa,  342,  419 
Aihuthnot  (Dr.  Aleiender).  8 
An  (Joui  d'),  her  deilh,  409,  508 
Archiiological  Inatilntt,  collection   of  miIj  printed 

books,  433 
Acche  (Elizabeth  de  1').  hoc  drwm,  409 
Areber  bmilj,  387 

Archer  (Georm),  H.D.,  his  fsmilj,  3S5 
Araber  (T.  H.  S.)  od  tbe  wrack  of  the  "  Temple," 

Archir's  Coact  in  Kent,  its  owners,  41 

Aiden  familj  of  Wilmcote,  co.  Warwidi,  lie,  169 

Are;!!  familj,  its  hietor;,  316 

Armonr,  old  funiliee  nitbont  coat,  344,  430,  481 

Aniold  (Df.  Thomas),  aUnsion  to  a  great  nun,  309, 

353 
Art,  themodem  nee  ofthowoid,  89,  224,347 
Arthnrian  localities,  SSI 

Arthur's  Wain,  constellation  of  tbe  Gmt  Bear,  513 
Acnndel  castle,  origin  uf  tbe  name,  234 
Anmdello  caatle  in  Pisdmont.  234 
A  (S.)  on  epigram  bj  Sairnel  Bogen,  388 

Rt^era  (Nebamiah),  77 
AshbancT  famit;  oF  Fnnieu,  131,  327 
Aihmoltan  Unenm,  lecture  an  it,  67 
A.  (T.)  on  the  meaning  oC  hg,  317 
Alh^t'e  prophecj  fnlBltea,  76 
AtUnsoD  (6.)  on  Hoganb'a  bcok-plates,  304 
Atkinaon  (J.  0.)  on  Britiah  scjthad  chsriota,  4<0 
Clerdand  foneral  nsages,  398 
Sheffield  fotk-lorr,  439 
"  Skarring  npoD  a  gliiTe  glatlon,"  S65 
A.  (T.  S.)  on  B.  P.  BoninglDT,  artist,  141 
G.  Campbaosen,  artist,  IS8 
"  The  Prodigal  Son,"  a  print,  150 
Attic  talent,  its  valne,  363 
A.  (T.  V.)  on  the  veto  at  papal  doctioni,  163 
Andlej  (Ralph)  oF  Sandbach,  1 1 
Antetll  (Madlle.),  dancer,  portrait,  323 
Anrora  borealis,  106 
Anstin  fsmilf,  343 ;  artne,  TS 
Austin  (T.),  jnn.,  on  "  The  Lamentation  of  a  Gianer,* 

376 
Aotomaton  cheae-playor,  63 
Arerj  funilf  pedigree,  161,  388 
A™i7  (Paraon),  ■■  Swan  song,"  30,  148,  388,  433 
A.  (W.  K  A.)  on  aotomaton  chus-plajv,  S3 
D J  j(  fonemla,  348 


A.  (W.  E.  A.)  on  tea,  aarlr  Dotka  of,  139 

Witchcraft  in  1868,  53 
Axon  (W.  E.  A.)  on  tbe  first  book  printed  in  Han- 
chestor,  64 

"  Hlomsaleml  mj  happie  home,"  ISl 

Uaee  on  tbe  hnnun  ear,  334 

BeasoDs  tor  g<dng  to  church,  99 
Ajna  familf  snnuuje,  386,  447,  507 

■  B 

B.  (A.)  00  "  Sommnm  jos,  sanuna  uyuiia,"  40O 
Bahel,  the  builders  of,  316 

Batriee'  bells,  31,  45,  133,  301,  291 

Bacon  (Franoie),  Baron  Vemlam,  his  Queen's  ctninial- 

ship,  188,  391 
Badger,  a  corn-dealer,  166,  345 
Badwell  Aah  cbnrcb  screan,  517 
Bailea  (John),  longsrit;,  154 
Bail;  (J.)  on  Bar.  Nehsmiah  Rogers,  179 
Balnbiidga  (H.  A)  on  LaaTonworth  family,  364 
'     HaraldHi  cmt,  535 
Sdb;  ^milj,  516 
Baker  (Hn.  fiarwick)  on  Wm.  Fenwick,  335 
Baliol  (Siz  Wm.),  302,  433,  606 
Ballad  aire,  tnulitioaal,  355 
BalUd  printers'  sneoBMion,  187 
Ballasall>7,  origin  of  the  name,  176,  313 
Balloon  poet  and  the  siege  of  Pnis,  207,  370,  S75 
Balloons  and  newspapers,  141 
Balljcollilan,  co.  Tipperai;,  122 
Bannister  (J.)  on  Cornish  spoken  in  Deronahira,  353 
Baptism  for  the  dead,  107,  263,  377 
Baptismal  cnstonu  in  llie  Highlands,  51,  367 
BaptisU  (Joannes), "  Camtnentar;  on  ArisMleT  34S 
Baifaadoa  parish  renters,  387.  496 
Barber  (H.),  MJ).  «n  Bishop  Jdin  Fell,  363 

Lanouhire  bamtl  ensirans,  331 
Barber  (John),  king  of  Thmtle  Hall,  1 19 
Barbers'  fbrfmt*,  32 

Barker  and  Bnrford's  panoramas,  S79,  432 
Barklej  (C.  W.)  im  ebuches  in  Roman  eain|^  24 
Bacnea  (Or.  Albert),  hU  death,  47 
Bamingham  chnn^  acraao,  SIT 
Bams,  nediamt,  96,  334 
Banm  Baillie,  his  duties,  73 
Bar-Point  oo  an  aztraccdinar;  memoiy,  471 
BairaU  (A  E.)  on  Uadlle.  Anrstti,  83^ 
fianington  (B.)  on  "Stewing  in  their  <m  gnrrr  523 
BsiTow  in  heraldrj,  474,  527 
Baskerrille  (Thomas),  portrait,  439, 486 
Bates  (A.  H.)  on  anooymoas  worka,  474 

ElaUnga,474 
Batea  (Wm.)  do  Hw  anroia  hon^  1«6 

Bookworm  rtnga*.  346 

"  Eikon  Banlike,"  its  atrthor,  21 S 

Ecatalia  of  Caldarv,  193,  S60 

Fraaar^  gallei7  of  portruta,  111 

Hair  growing  after  death,  IS) 

Harver  (Rar.  JaOMa)  and  Sogaidi,  259 

Hont  VaUiiea,  135 

Nioholwn  (Rantsn)  "Baian,''  S86 

Pamliea,  wo^  on,  19, 17T  % 

Bajal  t^ogiapby,  10 

" -  BimahdoniiDicl)t,483] 


ffimooideaai 


"  Codes 


■es),aDc«Dd,4aS 


;yCiOOC^Ie 


iBdniBiiwiRUDtiotiHnaictudi  T  V  r 

QnMi«irHanio.iB>,J"ijia.imLf  x  ji  i, 

Batbs  and  welk  of  Britain.  467 

BuUr  (CImriM)  on  ■  Dntcb  Dempaper,  339 

B.  (C.  W.)  OD  "  Com™  to  grirf,'  596 

B.  (D.)  on  Chevisiahce  n  cbe>imie«,  447 

IJrum,  ui  «T«iiiig  p>r^.  5S6 
Beale  (J.)  on  Billamllef,  176 

Ctunbui  HpUnn^  74 

CrjpWgnphy,  291 

Tfiiwald  HiU,  Isl>  of  Mid,  92 
BMr-biitiiig,  133 
Baua'  «us.  a  phut,  356,  950,  420 
B«atda  (WO  OD  Laird.  329 
Beancbimp  funilf  amu,  219,  34S,  442 
Beandflrk  (Juam  Lord),  3 
BouuDont  (Mary),  molber  <d  the  lit  Dnke  of  Bnoldng- 

ham,  469,  544 
"  Bcautia  of  England  and  Walea,"  jSmt,  34 
B«ck«t  (Tbomaa  k),  nnudnna,  33,  171,  195,  266, 

395,  464 
Beckfbrd   (Wn.),  HbdIbt^  tmubtioii  of  "  Talbok," 

35,  113,  174,244 
Bceqoeral  (U.),  hia  deatb,  375 
B«d«  CCothbert)  on  Ohiistmai  mnmnMn,  An.,  53 

Fimeh  pigMDS  driren  to  England.  341 

Glatton,  a  sUp.  543 

''Aaitofh«uia,'54e 

BMd^lioaf  or  Bediongh  £unil7, 361 

Wotbet  ujing,  399 

Weat  Hlgbland  cnslomt,  50 
Bfdell  (Bp.  Wm.),  da«M>dalila,  104,  199 


a  local 


397 


Pishrnnen  of  ttM  olden 

BieUiOTen  (Lonis  tou),  pareIItBg^  257,  353 

BelgiquB  on  MfdJcal  Onl«r  of  St.  John,  235 

Bell,  th<  pasiing,  388,  499 

Ball-barp.  a  mnaical  instnuDtnt,  208 

Bell-ringing,  110,388 

Belli  oF  St-  Feter'i  at  RonMj  ErRnlin  at  He 

GL  Panl'a,  London,  tbmr  waigfat,  1 1 ;  6t  ITMbaal'i, 
CoTBDlrT,  45;  l^end  on,  96;  uaedota  ofoiH    '  ''" 
Boyal  Eichu^  llOj  mamorUl,  at  St  D« 
Stepw;,  511 

"Bdle  0>)  I><uiM  saiu  HerGl,"  ponn,  SS4,  399 

Bdta  (B.  B.)  en  Eing>a  eoU^a,  Hmt  Tork,  SS9 
Ward  bmllr  armi,  373 

B«rkekr  bmil;  arma,  537,  538 

BariicbinsM  (OSU  too),  5tfg 

Bairi«k  (J<din),  angrannp,  355 

Bezant,  a  eaa,  206 

B.  (F.)  on  the  Pat«non  basilj,  60 

B.  (H.  E.)  00  Hudenwril,  nsu  Loath,  389 

Bible,  the  Blsbopa'  Tenioo  OMd  bj  tlM  tn 

tlie  anthorlaed  Tervon,  74;  nrinon  of  tbe  aoUnn'sed 
Tenioo,  181 ;  the  Vnlgata,  ad.  1516,  344;  Hit  (enp. 
James  I.,  534;  works  on  ila  Ustoij,  935;  CriUMl 
Commentai;,  551 

Biblv  Ulnatntiona,  11 

Bibliod  Anhaological  Bocaatr,  103,  BS3 

Blbbthecar.  Chetham.  eo  baftiam  fti  tb*  d«ad,  107 
Goido'i  Anrora,  print,  118,  ttS 
"  One  iwalbnr  don  not  mab  a  ■annur,"  293 
Panpblrt,  lli  atjiinlogj,  439 
"  Veritu  lo  paleo,"  313 

Biffla  and  piffln,  533 


EX  557 

Bilbo  OD  the  descent  of  Daniel  O'Connall,  349,  485 
Bills  aetnallj  presented,  32, 132,  3S9 
Bilaton  legend,  71,  197,  846 
Bingham  (C.  W.)  on  the  bookwomt,  65 

ChnicbUI  (Mrs.  Marj),  334,  534 

Longeriif,  280 

Uemorj  of  smdls,  413 

PortDgofse  copper  coio,  344 

Samplers  poesj,  136 

Thread  baltons,  94 
"  Kograpbia  Briumdea,"  1747-66,  Eippis'*  copf,  340 
Biographical  Reference  D)ctionai7,  181,  403,  651 
Biognphiea,  vrong  data  in,  46,  80, 1^  370 
Birch  frunilr,  534 
Birt  (Peter),  pedigree,  128 
B.  (J.),  Glatgaa,  on  the  Utltonic  e^ntaph,  94 
"  (J.  H.)  on  I^Hout  of  ieMta,"  S" 


in  Amdd'B  allnsion  ti 


k  great  n 


CaroMUtea,  363 

Cromwell  nota,  439 

Drjiden's  agnematt  for  bit  Vii^,  197 

Edwaida  (George),  388 

Fenen  (LadT)i  baUad  of,  445 

JamkMO  (Alexander),  919 

Pa^r  (Robert  and  Thomai),  4TS 
Blackett  (S.t*ay\  his  d«th,  228 
BbKk&iin'  UieUre,  183 

Blackie  and  Son  mi  datas  in  biiigia[JiiB,  46,  133 
Blaekleach  (Bp.  Hnan),  of  Sodor  and  Man,  34 
Blades  (Wm.)  on  Ihe  bookworm,  263 
Blair  (O.)  on  Enamoaied,  as  a  verb,  429 

Ewald's  Tiawa  on  tbe  ApocaljpM,  175 

Faiij  cbingellt^  383 

Hampshire  oonntr;  chon^jard,  1 74 

HSltf,  tbe  German  poet,  174 

Jonea  (Sir  Wilb'am)  "  Alcalo  Ode,*  454 

UatDiin  (Rer.  C.  R),  454 

Uemor7  of  smells,  413  ■ 

Prophecies  bj  Moetiadamna,  &&,  542 

Songs  and  IwlUds,  398 

'Tbe  world's  jndgment,"  la.,  456 
Blur  (Bobert),  "  Tbe  Qn-n,"  441 
Blinchard  (E.  L)  oo  Baron  mcholBon,  327 
Blaaklaj  tenilr.  141 
BknldiBopp  (E.  L.)  eo  Oeorge  Daald.  69 

Cnrioni  engraTtng,  95 

Eastern  atoiy,  1 31 

French  weed  fsr ''  to  ride,"  431 

Grantbui  inn  Ngni,  343 

St  Wnl&an,  S70 

Simonides,  179 
"  Blink,"  v  "  wink,"  their  ooiract  n**,  335,  459 
Block  books,  their  hislotj,  13,  191,  217,  33S 
Blood,  a  shower  of,  47 
BloebMud,  origin  of  the  rtoj,  29 
Bine  books,  122,  199 
Blue  Laws  of  OunDecticnE,-lG,  64, 191 
B.  (U.  A.)  on  cornipt  English,  143 

"  Whether  or  no,"  485 

mnk  or  blink,  335 
Boaae  (Q.  C.)  on  the  Ber.  SAa  Entr,  59' 

Foote's "  Pietj  ia  Fattens,"  161       V^  I 

Bobadil,  Ben  Jimsool  bnlly,  MB,,-,   '  k   C  nt^XlQ    C 
Bocase  tree,  534  t,  ^i.izea  o, '-i vvvv^  iv 


558 


Bodlniil  htm?,  draat'HHH  U,  47;  ilidui  USS.  406 
BatrarbmUj,  11,  179 
B^MW  (Jaeob),  "  Threefold  Life  of  Men,"  66 
Boll*  (Bioherd)  tf  Heagb,  hie  bnu,  405,  4B6 
Bootbjx  on  FiUUnUsme,  506 
Bampute  (NmpoUaa), "  The  Fine  Book,"  4SS 
BooiDgUn  (B.  P.),  utkt,  141,  502 
BoDwieke  (Ambroie},  hii  Life,  114 
■    I,  111,  147,343 


HI  flj-le«i 
Booki  prinlalf  prloted,  the  eulint,  13 

Bmki  rMentl;  pnbUtlied : — 

AbboU  on  the  KeTiuDn  of  Che  Englub  Bible,  467 
Alfred  (KiDg),  VcnioD  of  Gregotr'i  Pulonl,  3D1 
ADdmre'e  Aulunie  of  Bueoene,  40) ,  443 
Aoeon'i  Dimmetic  Almuuk  for  1871,  86 
Adiboe'a  Owninnil  Beprinti,  508 
Asn'i  Lucuhire  Polk-Scoig,  374 
Biitej  oa  lbs  Anglicin  Epiecopate,  467 
Butbolomew'i  Student's  Atlu,  35 
Bible,  tba  Aatborieeil,  withi  CommeDtiirr,  551 
BloomfieM  (Boberl),  CorreapandeDci!,  433 
BoDwicke  (Ambnee),  bie  Ufa,  114 
Bookwerm,  115,  154,  SS7  ' 

Bojd'e  BemiDiacencee  of  FMj  Yeare,  31 6 
Brooke  on  the  Vopaj  JodgmeDt,  467 
Calendar   of  Suis   Papers,  Doawttio,  Eliiabelh, 
1601-1603;     Forngn,   EUiabetb,     1564-5; 
FmeigD  and  DomeaCic,  HenrjVIII.;  Colonial, 
Eait  iDdies,  China,  aod  Japan,  1617-1631, 
180 
Camden  Hisoellaaj,  rot.  vi.,  354 
Carr'e  Stary  of  Sir  Bicbard  Wtiittlngtsa,  39 
Chaneei'a  Caalerbajy  Tala,  the  Prdof-os,  354 
Chronicles  and  Htmoriali  of  Great  Britain  aod 
Ireland;  Hardj'B  Catalogue  of  Hauriali,  335; 
Winiam  of  Midioeebnrj ;  Hittorio  DnDmeate  of 
lielaod,  380 
Claude  the  Colportear,  47 
Cuack'e  Hiatorr  of  Kerry,  354 
Dame  Earopa'a  School,  131 
DavoDpoit,  Lard-LieDtenant  and  High-Sberi^  439 
Debrett'a  Illaetrated  Hanie  of  Commooi,  153 
Debrttl'a  Peerag*  and  Bamoataga,  1 14 
Delapierre,  La  Panidie  ch«  lee  Greca,  &c^  S96 
Deaduuiel'a  Treatiu  on  Nataral  Philonphj,  134 
netimiBry  (Librarj)  of  Engliah  Langnage,  35 
EatljEngliah  Text  Society :  EnglaDdiDtha  Beign 
of  Heoi7  Vin.  A  Sopplicaeyon  for  tba  Baggara, 
315 
Eden,  The  Nile  without  a  DngoBma,  553 
Ei^ilb'i  Crowland  and  Batgh,  274 
Fairbolc'a  Bamblea  of  an  Arohmlo^t,  3*4 
FeltOD'a  Gnide  to  Tnnbridga  Wella,  487 
Fiahwick'a  Chapelrj  of  Gooenargh,  IS3 
Fonjth'a  Novela  aod  Noreliela,  346 
Gibta'ii  Calalogoe  of  Anglo-Saxon  ADtiquitiaa,  467 
Gill'a  Notice*  of  the  Jews,  S6 
Goddard'i  Wooderfal  Storica  from  Northern  Landa, 

46 
Qraham's  Hialofical  View  of  LilorAnre,  487 
Haydn'a  DJctionarjF  of  Ditea,  1 1 5 
Haydn'a  DJctionarj  of  Science,  67 
Herald  and  QenealOEiat,  227 
Hero  and  There  in  England,  422' 


Bwk*  r«Miitlr  pnUlsliMl  w- 

Hood's  Poetical  Worka,  by  Bemttl,  18 1 

Ihne's  Hittorr  of  Rome,  133 

J(wa^  Londoii,  iCa  Beoiarkable  Plaen,  114 

Johnetoo'e  Atlaa  of  Britiah  Hialoy,  B6 

Joaeph  of  Arimath!*,  201 

Jnnioa'  Handwriting,  431 

Eeble^  Cbriatian  Tear,  67 

Eoit,  a  new  HlattKy  of,  354 

Lok(Hentj),  Poe™,401 

M'Cauland's  Bnilden  of  Babel,  316 

Uacdonild'*   Napoleon,   Empress   Zagiait,  &£^ 

116 
Hacfie'a  Cdonial  Qaestiona,  115 
Machan'a  Biatoi7  of  Trigg  Uinor,  487 
MaoPheiwn  on  Oar  Bstba  and  Wells,  467 
Uarkhan's  Tearea  of  the  Beloved,  401 
Ulliaaa'a  EngUah  and  Scotch  Ballads,  SSS 
Milfbrd'a  Tales  of  Old  Japan,  237 
More— The  Hoaiehold  of  Sr  Tbomaa  More,  47 
New  Teatament,  with  Anslyaia,  Notee,  Ac,  46 
O'Driacotl'a  Uemoir  of  Daniel  Uadue,  467 
Paliesy,  The  PruTocathma  i^  Madame  Palissy,  47 
PaNgraphical  Dictionary  and  Gramnuu',  316 
Padur'a  Leetore  on  the  Asbmolean  Unacnin,  67 
Phillips'B  Diollonary  of  fiiognphical   Betarence, 

181,  403,  551 
Pliny  the  Yoongtr,  Letters,  86 
Pope  (Alex.),  Works  by  £lw'm,  86,  295,  508 
Powell  (Maiy),  Maiden  and  Harried  Life,  47 
Qainoey's  Sequel  to  the  English  Opiom  Eater,  152 
Baoe'e  Elemente  of  Psychology,  448 
Itsea'e  Psrliamantary  Record,  47 
Boshton  00  Shiksspeare'a  Enphniam,  527 
Seottiah  Litorglo  of  the  iHgn  of  James  VL,  S07 
Soon  CSr  Walter),  "The  Pirate,"  3S;  "Forrtnes 

of  Nigel,"  153  ;  "  PeToril  of  (he  Peak,"  274  ; 

'-Qoentin  Dnrward."  354;  Gilbert's  "  Beminis. 

eences,"  381 ;  Lcckbait'a  Life  of  him  Abridged, 

448 
EeUar'a  Passion  Play  of  BsTaria,  487 
Shafteabnry  (lat  Earl  of).  Life  by  Christie,  447 
Shiptoo  (Mother),  Life  and  Death,  25 
Smiddy'i  Essay  to  tfae  Dmids,  Ao,  487 
Smith's  Synooyms  Diacriniinatad,  336 
SUwart'a  worln  on  Angling,  381 
Street  m  the  Completion  of  St.  Paol's,  952 
StnbbiT*  Charters  <rf  English  Batiaj,  346 
Sutton  on  Uw  Conpletini  of  St.  Paul's,  552 
runbs'e  Year  Book  of  Facts,  1 81 
Toltemnche's  Spanish  Towns  and  Spanish  Pictuea, 

134 
Tnnsaetiona  of  ths  Historical  Sodety,  327 
Twiedton'a  Pccma  in  the  Craven  Dialed,  374 
Vangbsn  (Henry),  Silarist,  Works,  401 
Wanon's  Hislo^  of  English  Poetry,  bj  Hstlitt, 

937 
Wesley  (John)  on  Carative  Electricity,  487 
White's  Ci«ll  Service  Histoij  of  England,  86 
Winn's  Battles  of  Bpeioheren,  Gam,  &«.,  112 
Wratialaw'a  Diary  of  the  Embassy  of  Gm^  of 

Bohemia  to  Louis  XI.,  237 
Xaoophon,  by  Sir  Akx.  Grant,  354 
Yorkshire    Archcological     and     TapognphicBl 

Jonmal,  67  -.  j 

Bookworm,  its  ravagea,  65,  168,  262,  346,  *'1jCX)Q  IC 


iBdeiBnippleBieBlw  IheKoKund!  T  W  1 

qutiH.«UbH<>.iu.Jnlfii.i!:i.;  ^  "   ^ 

BnUon,  a  gUM,  35,  16T,  305,  89B 
Bwtni  church,  Bicliird  Bolls's  bnn,  409,  486 
Bothndt  (FniKia  Stcwut,  Eirl  of),  63,  177 
Boaebiar  ( Jonatbui)  on  Uicanlij  mat  Culjla,  51 3 

Mdli^ra'a  ■>  Comadica,"  365 

Sonnat  qnario,  4$6 
Boughs  befon  dooiB,  107 
Boanie  mi  Croft  famiUta,  356 
Boraj  (John),  ftmijy,  1 1,  179 
Boven  Edl  eaUtes,  Essei,  199 
Bowman  (Robert),  an  allegrd  mntaDiriut,  33,  87 
Bowa  and  cnrtsi«,  109,  S20,  330,  444 
B07  blthop  of  th«  Propaganda,  2 1 
Boyd  (E.  L.)  on  "  Whan  ItaUa  dolh  poyaon  nam,"  446 
Boyla  (E.  M.)  on  John  Boiej,  II 

Iriah  HouK  of  Commona'  IliU,  323 

Eilligraw  (Eliiabatb),  358 

Monming  papar,  308 

Slawkanbffgios'  "  Traatiaa  on  Koaat,*  125 


nick  fan 


I,  104 


Bojie  (Sir  Robert),  visit  to  Inland,  2S3,  352 

BiTiie  moDBf,  236,  SI3 

Braa  (A.  K)  oo  ■-  Thlit;  da^  bath  Saptcmbar,"  5SS 

Braham  church,  Yorkibire,  357 

Bnmfield  church  aorani,  516 

Bnda,  ica  aiaga  in  1624,  53 

a  (R.  B.  D.)  on  tha  calaeombe  of  Paria,  22 

Briant  (F.  D.)  00  ths  53nd  regiawDt,  46 

BrickiDfBBb7lDii,493 

BridgeliDC  Duna,  408 

Britiab  Uosaam  Raadiog-room  nicraDcc,  403 

Britten  (Jama)  on  "DDnglial  Donglaal  tender  and 

Epithala  of  the  mootba,  445 

"  God'l  bibj,"  235 

GriQubn  (htdj'),  her  gma,  119 

Bolciu  laTitai,  333 

Shannroit,  a  plant,  244,  463 

Sheffield  dtli-loni,  299 

Stiohvittve,  446 

Trerarii'  "  Otete  Harhall,"  163,  4C3 

TDodoniam,  origin  of  tha  term,  210 
Brocaa  (Dr.  Theophilni),  daui  of  Killala,  137 
Broderick  hmil;,  474 
Broken  bridge,  an  exhibitioo,  160,  295 
Brooka  (John)  on  Grantbam,  iJiiu  Bloatoirn,  44* 
Bnioka  (Shlrle;)  on  liars  on  the  homan  ear,  !64 

"  The  Phlloeopber  and  btr  Father,"  369 
Brooks  (Ber.  Thomas),  biography,  342,  417 
Bnnigb  (John  CargiH),  librarian  of  Ibe  LoDdon  Institn- 

tim,  402 
BroQgham  (Lord)  «nd  the  stciy  of  Hn.  Nightingale, 

277,  330,  353,  376,  378,  402;  his  bast,  202 
Brown  (Tom),  epigram  on  Dr.  Fell,  283 
Bronrae  (Sir  Anthony),  creat,  304 
Browne  (C.  E.)  on  Mary  Rant'a  prophecy,  535 

Voltaitiana,  431 
Browne  (Sr  Thomas)  of  Arcber'a  Conrt,  1 1 
Braf«  (Ri^Krl),  bonea  and  coffin-oula,  297,  378 
Bmytre  (La)  and  the  bookseller's  dangbter,  307 
B.  (T.  H.)  on  wrecks,  305 

Portrait  pamting,  324 
'Buckingham  (Geo.  Villiers,  1st  Ihike  of),  bis  mother, 

469,  544 
Buckley  (Rer.  T.  A.  'Wm.)  cluaieal  acboiar,  534 
Bnckton  (T.  J.)  on  Zodiac  of  Dsndarah,  65 


Boff  (A.)  00  Sic  Edwin  Sudya  and  tba  Inshopi,  359 

Industries  of  England,  444 
Bmnbo,  or  Rambo,  a  drink,  512 
Bnrff,  its  derivation,  283,  379,  445,  486 
Bnrford's  panoramia,  279,  432 
Bnq^ne  (Sr  John),  lines  to  Lord  Palmentoi,  340) 

linee  by  him,  451 
Barhunubi  (Philip),  noticcLl,  454,  550 
Bnniet  Thonma),  satire  on  Dean  Swift,  418 
Bama(Robert),  relics  and  letters,  449 ;  ercor  in  "  Anid 

Lang  Syne,"  386,  501 
Burton  (Miss  Rachel),  satirist,  443,  SIS 
Basw:ha  (Eiil  Vanden)  on  J.  Loois  Vims,  536 
Bnllsr  (Charles),  Bine  and  Red  Books,  133,  199 
Butler  (Gen.),  order  agiinit  the  ladies  of  New  OrladDf, 

363 
Bnllar  (Mrs.  Mery),  a  ceDteoirian,  ISO 
Buttery  (Albert)  on  Christ's  portrait.  24 

Hsnry  VIII.  and  the  Golden  Fleece,  283 

Stamp  on  [Hctaia  canvas,  195,  243 
Bnttons,  laws  relating  to,  73;  thread,  94 
B.  (W.  C.)  on  John  Dsniaon'a  Sermons,  162 

Beanty  bnt  aUo-deep,  177 

Chap  books,  302 

French  mystsij.pUy,  184 
B.  (W.  D.)  on  "  Capridons  Wiay,"  259 
B.  (W.  I  )  on  a  brau  in  Boston  cbnrch,  405 

St.  Volfnn,  444 

Wa]plinu,a23 

B.  (W.  a.)  on  a  while'a  rib  «t  Sorrento,  36,  B4 
Byion  (George  Gordon,  6th  Lord),  the  yonng  gallant 
Howard  in  "Childe  Harold,"  438  1  review  of  bia 
"  EngUsh  Baidt,"  23,  lOG,  197,  361,  441 


C.  on  catliedral  beUa,  11 

Brongbam  (Lnd)  and  Voltaire,  352 

Danby  (Earl  of)  and  Ijxi  Arlington,  363 

Ghost  alary.  453 

Kingatm  (Earl  rf)  and  Oldham,  389 

London  in  October,  510 

Tme  enjoyment,  493 
Calais  and  ^r  Gilbert  Talbot  la  1513,  139 
Caldan),  the  EcsUIica,  21,  123,  198,  351 
Caliban,  origin  of  lbs  name,  66, 175 
CalTsry,  caUed  the  Meant,  63,  103,  315,  372 
Calvin  (John)  and  Serretna,  141 
Cambridge,  new  edition  of  the  Univanity  "OrdilU' 

tiona,"  153 
Cambridge  PbJIologicsl  Society,  336 
Camden  Socie^,  goDeral  meeting,  403 
Cameron  (Donald)  of  Loehiel,  portrait,  257,  334 
Campbell  (Lord),  life  of  Lord  Lyndbont,  380,  373, 

466 
Camphanien  (G.),  artist,  ISS,  313 
Gtnadiaa  oovsl,  26 
Can-can,  a  dtnoe,  108 
Canioa  the  poet,  hia  fragments,  363 
Canning  (George)  and  Lord  Dudley,  131 
CannM,  ila  derivallw,  58.  150 
Canterbnry  (On^),  bia  "  Will,"  a  tale,  257 
Capara  and  mntton,  190 
"         ■     ■  '34,  149, 343,  S49 


Cul^la  (Thcmu)  ud  Lord  MauaUj,  S13 

Cirinlilw,  hiatorial  noticea,  363 

Cankkbkckar,  nliei  at,  loa 

Curler  (Dr.  Benj),  coDTersiiMi  to  RoDwnt<m,  97,  130, 

333 
Cumtben  (Robsrt),  diplomi  oF  LLD.,  S82 
Cirtar  (Jofaa),  hii  dnwinga,  3S 
Carthew  (G.  A.)  on  lagil  Wmu  Ump.  Jimei  I.,  S 
Omrj  (R«T.  H«nrj  FrMeu),  137 
Cirj  (MordBui),  biihop  of  EilUli.  334,  376,  46S 
0«J  (Dr.  Robert),  •  Palaolop.  Chronicm"  143,  371 
Cannon  (Giicomo),  "  Uomoin,"  326,  4S0 
CataoooibaafPiru,  32 
Cithednls,  old  cutomii,  3S0 
Catlef  (Ann),  utnui,  41,  317 
0«T«i  (John),  a  etntemrian,  SOI 
C.  (C.)  oD  a  Bcriptii,  301 

Gnliot  and  Gaieo,  270 

JaaiHMD  (Alsxaudor),  319 

La  CaiMolo,  343 

Uouuenr,  mantiear,  311 
C.  (C.  D,)  on  Aqd*  Chapman,  334 

Compeliton  for  Ibe  ScotUth  crown,  363 

Ltt  (Rot.  Timolhy),  monoinent,  304 

SUK-in-tbo-Wold,  344 
C.  (C.  G.)  on  BoBlon  :  Ombn,  398  K 

C.  (C.  H.)  ea  Lord  Plaaket  and  the  boor-gbX,  93 
C.  (E.)  on  canons  precnraors  of  the  Ptstendor,  1 39 

Hontagn  (Lad;  Uarj  Wonlej),  ballad,  207 

Odo  of  Anhur  Grcj,  375 
a  (K  B.)  on  "  Th<  Maid  of  Rjo,'  390 
Ctllioi  (BcnvoDDto),  anna,  366 
Oolticiim,  tbe  doctrim  of,  349,  533 
Ogntanariaulgni.     Sh  Lfln^enljr 
Oanunie  art,  WDik  dd  it,  336 
CartodDO,  in  meaDing,  19,  400 
Camntca,  row  edition  of  "  Don  QDizola,"  37S 
0.  (F.  W.)  on  La  Caracole,  149 
C.  (O.)  OD  T.  Bukerrillo'.  pottnut,  439 
C.  (G.  A.)  OB  fblk-kr^  tbo  >Iowwanii,  547 

LmM  cmmnoDiilaoaa  Ump.  Jamei  I.,  83 

luting  in  EUnlon  chordi,  245 

St.  abbnvlatcd  to  T,  550 
0.  (G.  H.)  OD  Lord  Plnnkat,  365 
C.  (H.)  OD  Ibe  plant  Liogna  AnBcria,  333 

Trtreiia' "  Grate  Heiball,'  333 
CbunncD,  binta  to,  SS,  176 
ChalkotT  (Bp.  Bicbard), "  Qardan  of  tlie  Eonl,'  513 


ClK)pdnh493 
Plica  Polonica,  Kba 
Bealm,  lla  difhrant  forma,  370 
»T,479 


41 

Cbaiboo  de  Torra,  a  Liage  legend,  7 
CbaiiDts,  Britiab  MTtbed,  95,  340,  333,  460,  S03 
CbMlaougDe  famtlr  anna,  75,  ISO,  400 
Cbarlea  I.  and  tbe  "  Eikm  Barilika,'  i  ;  hia  eli 

abilUng  ^ana,  55,  148,  443,  4S«;    gnnrtb  o 

hur  after  dMtb,  36,  83,   130;    bi«  ribbon  ol 

OaTtar,  S«3,  440 
Cbarha  IL,  poreelaia  maniortal  of,  37;  at  Ualpv, 


Chanuek  (R.  S.)  on  Bnrff  or  bnrf,  486 
CbeF^w=StrigoliDm,  377 
Cbigoont,  4l8 
Coldingham  priory,  311 
De  Sayo  familj,  372 
Cnennibar,  ita  deriiation,  19,  loS 


DOTOI 


1,506 


Don,  u  a  load  prefix,  104 
£a  and  En,  59 

Falls  of  FoTera  and  Glammn,  178 
GUtton.  ita  deriration,  446 
Ho)^  Mogan,  481 
Lotbiag  luid,  19 
Mac,  a  palronymie,  333 
Pannfteraan,  &e.,  6U 
Plica  Polonica,  540 
Saiaecn,  a  aomuiH,  306 
Segdonna,  Saggidiu,  &&,  600 
Tratbamp,  113 
Cbartan  of  Engliah  biatorj,  246 
Cfaattcrton  (Tbomai)  knowledga  of  Anglo-Siion,  378; 

nuannMntatBriatot,979 
Cbancer  (GeoBrej),  lioa  in  tbe  "  Sbip^nan,"  308;   pco- 
Woe  to  hia  "  CantarbnrT  Tilea,'  354 ;    adit.  1 561, 
423:  "Schoo,"  361;  "Afler  oon,"  "  Stom,"   386; 
"Col-Foi"   and    "Gattolbed,'   41S;    Works,  adiu 
Stowa,  1561,  493j  dale  tf  tain  birth,  338, 41S,  4TS. 
647 
ChanTinisma,  oriRin  of  the  word,  408 
Cbawban  explained,  74 
C.  (H.  B.)  on  plctDce  of  Alccstia,  913 


BriUab  acjifaad  chariots,  332 

Dwnw,  437 

Daniel  (George),  1  IS 

French  war  aonga,  10 

Ovid,  >'  Hetam."  xUL,  S54,  531 

"  Pan  of  an  angel'a  wing,"  444 

Tr>ptfl"VirBU,'33S 
C.  (H.  C.)  on  ■  motnst,  1S69  and  1871,  ISl 
C.  (Q.  D.)  on  Cigoli's  paintiDg  of  SC  Fiands,  370 
Cbeera  (Sir  Hanry),  the  aUtnaiy,  46 
Chaka  (Ladr  Euex),  nnpablithad  latter,  406,  468 
Cbdmsbrd  fLoni)  on  "  Heart  of  bearta,*  362 
CbeFst«>,  eaUed  SCrienelg,  34,  377 
Chsrrj  (J.  L.)  on  "  the  bitter  and,"  33 

Print-diateni'  eataloguts,  143 
CbMS  in  England  and  Cbina,  34, 127 
Cheater  (J.  L.)  on  B.  HarlwKl'*  loDg  iDoiinibe«T,  99 

Kpua's  eofj  of  "  Biographia  Britanniaa,''  340 

irigbUngale(LadT},.330 
Cbotareeld  (Lnd),  bnllul  oa  the  Order  of  tlw  Batb , 

S07 
Cbethsm  Booie^  and  tbe  Fomeaa  Coocher-book,  74, 

310 
CbaTtaaaace,  its  meaning,  343.  447 
Chsmn  oa  armorial  shields,  408,  467,  660;  the  mili- 
tary, 476 
CbigMM,  antiqnitr  of  ladies',  93,  S6I,  336,  418,  481 
Cliild,  why  doaa  a  Deirlj-bom  coa  cry  r  Stl,  S8t,  394, 

465 
Child  bom  on  tho  annirenaty  of  iu  pi 

458 
Childran's  games,  141,  371,  413,  B06,  59S_1 
Cbina,  intrvdnction  of  cbaa  into,  34,  137 
China  mania,  73,  443 


oogle 


gturU^^Sih  Hii.l«3,Ju[irVl"l.} 


CbineM  rnddara  of  abipa,  162 

C.  (H-  M.)  on  coDMcntmE  rsgimcntal  coloun,  Sa2 

Chowder,  «  utoutj'  dbh,  8S 

Cbriit  (Jntu),  portrait,  24 

Christ-ciwi  ABC,  418  - 

Chriatuiu  mammora  uij  ploagU-nltcliers,  52,  S4S 

Chriolmu  oral,  33 

Christmu  idioolbaj  piocts.  US,  SOI,  3SI,  463 

Cbnwiole  of  onnli  In  1870.  25 

Chrooologer  of  tbs  Cilj  oi  London,  133 

C.  (H.  S.)  on  todMOD*  ring,  324 

Chnrcb,  >ocn«  rouoiu  for  going  thcrt,  99 

Church  (W.  M.  H.)  D>i  Aiutia  Umiij,  342 

Anns  of  Jennonr,  S5 
ChnccbM,  dedicatioD  of,  38S,  4S0,  505;  6!ijBtiioaiB 
in  London,  112;  in  Sorrej,  dntrojed  m  16BS,  476; 
within  Ronun  camps,  24,  333 
Churchill  (Lord)  on  Uighlon  curiwilorM,  418 
Cliurchill  (Mn.  Harjr),  mcinonil  in  UiiitnM  cburch, 

234,  417,  S84 
0.  (U.  W.)  ona  Littin  prorerb,  56 
Cigoli  (Lowia),  ptiutin?  of  "Su  Franci),"  270 
Cindanlla  and  th<  glass  ilippor,  196 
Cipher  writing,  15S,  291,  377 
Cistercian  nionutaries  in  EDglanJ,  141,  268 
C.  (J.)  on  Biihop  John  Alcuck,  122 

Narill  (Geo.),  Lord  Lilimer,  bia  w'tk,  96 

Moel  CTheodosia;,  124 
C.  (J.  H.)  on  Dr.  M  llliun  King,  388 

"  Bolliad,"  Kilb  noUa,  340 
C.  (J.  L,}  on  Lord  and  [judr  Dorne,  263 
C.  (J.  H.)  00  gnalB  biting,  352 
C,  (J.  B.)  CO  cryptography,  155 
CUrka  (Un.  Harriet),  her  longeiitj.  51 1 
Claikc  (Hjd«)  on  Uod  ■billings,  187 

Male  and  female  nambem  and  letlera,  407 

Midai,  origin  of  the  name,  429 

Soeraing,  361 

Thnndei',  429 
CUrka  (Somer*),  jnn^  on  eompletioo  of  St.  Panl'i,  241 
Clarry  on  a  newlj-hora  child  erjlng,  389 

Cunpbell  (Lonl),  Lifa  of  Lord  Lyndhnrat,  373 

Hood  and  Lord  Ljtton,  429 

NkhoUoo  (■'  Baron  -),  33T 


.373 
Clebnma  (Wm.),  of  Tippenur,  arnw  and  fninllj,  123, 

Cleopatra:  «u  she  E^rptian  or  Greek?  493 
Clercland  (Barbara,  Dacbexs  of),  66 
Clanlaod  funeral  nugee,  293 
CliTe  (Kittj),  letter  to  Mi»  Pope,  2 
Clock,  an  aitronomical,  322,  350     - 


Ciodhi 


J,  fiia 


CIoBM  ehop  E3  Crocker;  ibop,  429,  506 

Clanda,  the  poelr;  of  the,  319,  397,  518 

Cljne  (Norral)  ou  pronunciation  of  Artaothnot,  430 

C.  (H.  U.)  M  pictnra  of  Lidj  Oreenaleerei,  475 

C.  (0.)  on  goremora  of  Jainfiwi,  1 89 

Miniature  painter  letup.  Chicles  1.,  454 
Cobblen'  lainpt  in  Itilj,  11,  133,  243 
Cocker  (Edward),  ^  The  Pan'a  Gallant^,"  407 
Codd  (Mca.  Shirle;  Mune),  a  centenarian,  160 
CofiiM-honiea  of  London,  5 
Coins,  aleTen-abilling   pieces   of  Charles  L,  55,  1*8, 

442,  486;  deiiarinx  of  Drntiu,  aen.,  95,  143,  148; 

altiliam  and  obDloB,  143;  Ponngaeee  copper,  344 


Coldingbun  priorf,  1538,  187,  311,  379 

Cole  bmilj,  124,  201 

Coleridge  (8.  T.),  noticed,  209 

Colet  (John),  darn  of  SI.  Paul's,  28 1 

Coliile  (F.  L.)  on  Robert  Keek's  portrait.  13 

Common  Prajer  Book  of  the  Church  of  England,  edit. 

1723,  109;   the  Sealrd   Book  photo- lincograpbiMil, 

47;  Stnrt'a  edition,  1717,  2S3,  351 
Cock-flgh^Dg  a  century  ago,  108  ' 
Congreaaiaiial  library,  153 
Congreie  (Wm.),  who  was  "  Dori.  "?  363 
Conoectiant,  its  "  Blue  Laws,"  16,  64,  191 
Contois  deGned,  492 
Coustabk  (Henry),  passage  in.  333 
Couslantine,  bis  character,  303.  349 
Constantinople,  the  UjiII  of  Waters,  112;  a  new  Olto- 

mandab,  181 
Conway,  origin  of  the  name,  61 
Caok(Capt.),  hie  thrashes,  187 
Cwke  (Chr.)  on  London  churches,  1 13 
Cookaa,  Cookesey,  end  Cooke  families,  11,  310,  523 
Oookea  (H.  W.)  on  Cookea  {amiliea,  1 1 
Corbett  bmily  of  Chaddesle;,  408 
Cor  Caroli,  a  double  siar,  IS 
Cork  Cnvierian  and  Arcbcologicd  Society,  47 
Camell  family,  343,  446 
Coraej  (Bolton),  sab  of  his  library,  552 
Cornish  spoken  in  DeTonshiie,  11,  126,353;  Gtossur, 

126 
Cornab.  on  Our  Lady  of  Haljwell.  47.5 
Couell  (W.  H.)  on  ilroderick  fainily,  474 

Cottle  U>e  poet,  493 
Cotterill(H.B.)t»tbepaetrjof  the  clouds,  319 
Cottle  (Amce),  poem,  "  The  Milton  Gallery,"  453 
Cottle  (Josepb)  of  Bristol,  liia  family,  493 
Couch  (Edward),  bis  IcmgeTity,  ISO,  200 
Coueb  (T.  Q.)  on  generations  within  living  meaKOT, 

337 
Courteniy  (Wm.  de).  26S 
Courtney  (W.  P.)  on  Bor.  Samuel  Henley,  174 
"  CoDtumier  of  the  Order  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Uarr," 

322 
CoTtuIIT,  balls  of  St.  Michael's,  49 
Cowper  (J.  M.)  on  Benjamin  Citier,  1 50 

Bumbo  :  clod  beef,  512 

"  The  Time.'  Whistle,"  by  R.  C,  97 

"Whether  or  no,"  378 
C.  [R.),  Cork,  on  baptism  for  the  dead,  377 

Bookworm,  462 

Nile  and  tlie  Bible,  314 

Piehler,  a  gem  engrarer,  397 
C.  (B.)  OenL,  author  of  "  Tlie  Time,'  Wlihtlf,"  97 
Cracow  uniieraity,  its  criginal  docomeots,  336 
Crag,  a  local  1(01,360 
Ccanfurds  of  Newark,  baronets,  343,  ,513 
Crawford  (John)  ou  blink  ver.  wink,  459 
Crawley  vtr.  Crawley,  a  probate  case,  239 
Cnightoo  (Dr.  Robert),  on  the  Council  „C  Florence,  143 
CresiB,  (stumpttoo  ol  more  th.rn  one,  257,  353,  443, 

505 
CrispinuB,  his  arms,  469 
CritHism,  untutored,  271,  387 
Critics  dascribed,  490 

Crirelli  (Carlo),  life  and  works,  161,  370        -^ 
Croft  family  of  Croft  castle,  256  ' 


>yC00^Ic 


1  QiKTifla.  vfn  itnn^H^mH. 


Cnmwell  Fainilj,  429,  461 

Crcmnll  (Oliver),  letter  u  the  Emptr«  BnlUii  Uc 
bunct,  199,  231;  irKizatinl,  374;  boDM  00  Briltoo 
Bi»,  468;  letter  of  Feb.  4,  1650-1,  474;  snppcaed 
dncenduiti,  246,429;  roediU,  49S;  ipFoinCmeat  of 
Thomu  Sqidh  u  medal  meker,  S15 
Croqnie  (Allnd),  >.(.  Duiel  Uadiw,  213 
Comity  (Jama)  rai  an  old  hilbd,  323 

Goldvnitb  (Ollrer),  inedited  riegj,  66,  131 

"  HiXory  of  Edwud  II.,  1680.'  29S 
Cnnrluid  abbe;,  its  biitarr,  274 
Cnwqaitl  (Alfred),  i.t.  Allced  Bear;  Faimter,  214 
Ornil^haiik    George),  illiutratiaiu  in  Bcac«e'i  "  Norel- 

i»ti'  Librarj,"  40 
CiTptognpbr,  155,  291,  377 
C.  (T.)  on  Bp.  GibaoD's  vife  uid  niotber,  76 
C.  (T.  E.)  on  the  canal  of  Xerxe.,  97 
C.  (T.  W.)  aa  Hoollj,  the  German  poet,  244 

UilloD  (Jaao  de).  49S 

"  Pen  of  an  angel'a  wing,' 312 

"  SteiriDg  in  their  oini  gravj,"  3T9 
Cncumber,  its  deriiation,  19, 108 
Oal,  Cosl,  a  local  pre6i,  495 
Cninble,  iia  derinljon,  4S2 
CDDuingham,  oHgin  of  the  annuuiK,  321,  347 
Ctmningbain  (F.)  on  lines  omilt^  In  "  Comu,"  3S4 
Con-alonei  iii  deriTation,  61 
OnTier  (Clementine),  biaeraphj,  408 
C.  (W.),  Sichmond,  od  London  ci>fln  bonsee,  5 
C.  (W.  A.  B.)  on  '■  Bna  lioc  locari  deUt,"  &c^  149 

The  Sept  DBgint,  S15 
C.  (W.  D.)  on  Sjdnej  Godolphin,  3G4 
0.  (W.  M,  H.)  00  AiuLia  familj,  75 

ATerage  of  human  lire,  10 

ChirleDUgne  arms,  75 

Danbfgc^  monnnieDl,  54 

Bampdenfamil;,  189,  441 

Henldic,  409 


Pipe  Roll,  5  Stephen,  236 
CTRnn  on  orders  of  knighthood,  101,  441 
Soog,  "  Linriger  Uoratioe,"  398 


D.  on  High-jinks,  a  tipej  meniinent,  427 

Hemor7arBnie11e,4l4 

UovrniDg  nntine-paper,  378 

Thnnderer  of  "  the  Timeo,"  524 
Dacin-  (Andre*),  noticed,  427 
Dalby  (J.  W.)  on  Georpe  Daniel,  63 
D'AJmejd*  (Don  Franfob:,  101 
DaliTmple  (Jo)in),  noticed,  286,  463 
Dudf  rollf ,  534 
Daniel    (George),  editor   of   Ctrnii^rUnd'e    "  Biitidi 

Tbeeire,"  63,  84,  1)3 
Duiata  court  head-dreaa,  34 
Dante  lileratBre,  354 
Danrin  (C.  B.),  his  theor;  in  Jara,  533 
Dalo,  discreponcles  in,  9 

Ovib}gn4  (^  John),  monument  ftt  Briie-Nortoo.  54 
DsTiee  (T.  L.  0.)  on  pronnncialiou  of  Greek  and  Latin, 
173 

"  The  Poetic  llirnir,"  177 
Dairee  (Abp.  Wm.),  fond  of  pnnnirg,  106 
Dajkln  (F.  M.)  on  the  Birch  fimll/,  S34 


D.  (E.  A.)  on  Bniff  or  bnrf,  379 

False  quantities,  380 

HameAocksn,  335 

Phrase.  "  Comes  to  grief,"  429 

Song,  "  Old  woman,  old  wonisn,"  196 

Wra;  (DanW),  373 
Deacon  (Wm.  Frederick),  "  Warrenlana,"  IS 
"  Deaf  old  woman,"  lines  on,  75, 196 
Dean  <&  A.  H.)  m  Cfariitmsi  piecea,  462 
Dealb  bj  torture  for  imimted  bereaj,  305 
De  Bobnn  famil;,  24,  ISO 
Deed,  sndent  Scottish,  19 
De  Foe  (Daniel),  qaotaliom  is  "Bobinsoo  Crusoe," 

426 
Defoe  (Mere;)  of  Manchater,  34 
De  Is  Side  (G.)  od  the  marine  rose,  46 
Demoniacs,  worki  on,  109 
Den,  u  a  local  bmunalien,  397 
Denuiua  of  Drtuos,  ten.,  cwn,  95,  354 
Denbigh,  origin  of  lbs  name,  £1 
Deniaon  (John),  his  woifci,  162 
Dennoy  (Andrew).  Greek  couplet,  "6 
Denton  (Sir  Aleunder),  lursliat,  323 
"  De  profundis,"  its  earlj  use,  495 
Darbj  (Heorj  Stanley,  4lh  Earl  o(),  anecdote,  38S 
Dett;  (Thomas  Stanley,  2nd  Earl  of),  EUi  King  of 

Uan,  S50 
"  Dtr  relegitto  Kobbold."  55 
D.  (E.  S.)  on  Maldenwell,  »ar  Louth,  548 
Deril  besU  hia  wife,  35,  400 
Dexter  (Timotb;),  Amerieu  merchant,  174 
D.  (F.  H.)  on  '•  Pigs  may  3;,"  ic,  41 
D.  (G.  F.)  oh  opiUph  In  Wing  chnrch,  53 
D.  (H.  P.)  on  Epigram :  "  Aa  Cjril  and  Kathan,"  4«S 

Epigrsm  on  the  Walcheren  elpediticai,  18 

Fell  (Dean  Samael),  35! 

Fnnning  and  jesting  on  namea,  3 13 

Tillers  of  BQgar,  224 

Winter  esjing,  18 

Wraj  (Daniel),  37S 
D.  (H.  W.)  on  China  manU,  73 

Derbj  porcelain,  75 
Dili  (Baitolomao),  diicorerer  of  the  Cape  Boole,  101, 

195,  313 
Dibdin  (E.  B.)  on  Beast  j  sleep,  419 

Bhur  (Bobert),  "  The  Grave."  441 
Dibdin  (Dr.  T.  F.).  "  Bibliographical  Deramaron,''  35* 
Dkkena  (Chirtoe),  copjrighte  of  bU  worka,  134 
Dies  (D<nuu  Jallana),  Portognesa  beaal;,  M 
Digsmms.  414,  481 
Dighton  (Robert),  csricatnrlat,  418 
Diaraeli  (Isaac)  ini!  (amilj,  300 
Dia-BjMTiC,  its  old  aud  modern  luenning,  186,  294,  3TT 
Ditchfield  (J.  B.)  on  "  M&noirei  da  Casanora,"  480 
DUon  (S.)  on  "  After  me  the  deloge,"  188 

BallaJ  of  Lad;  Ferrera,  334 

Guiiot  and  Goiie,  333 

Hair  growing  aftef  death,  130,  315 
Diion  (Jaows  Heorr)  on  Ballad  pruitera'  BucCMsioDs  , 
187 

Bjron's  "  English  Barde,"  106,  351 

Certosino,  Its  meaninfi,  1 9 

Cobblere'  lamps  in  Italj,  11 

ConTiiial  ainga,  58 

'■ta"and"En,':  193 

Qeronda  oonrent,  25S 


byCnOOgIC 


DiioD  (JuDM  Hnn7)  oa  Muchntar  dup-booka,  1 10 

lusiilc  ad  nnun  LaDanDiunaeni,  IS4 

PotUn  or  tba  uotUmtd  eoantiaa,  96 

Soripdt,  146 

S*in  ipring  K»g,  331 

"  Tba  HaaTiDg  of  iha  L,cad,"  AS 

WvacniKt  An  Imjieilid  Laltar,  14S 
D.  (U.)  00  BabjkauD  bricki,  493 

Bcu-baitiog,  136 

Bnntj  ilaap,  143 

Chinaaa  niddan  of  ihipi,  163 

DeliDealioni  c^  tha  dragon,  IS 

EaUtica  of  Caldano,  133 

Gip^  oodcarj,  121 

B*imtdi7  of  Smith  ianiiliaa.  43 

Inkatand  of  Wadgwooil  wara,  163 

Ear  (JobaX  portrait,  173 

Uacarooo.  iu  dariTation,  364 

Haibnrj  Dan,  >  famtd  home,  S35 

UUitarr  charron,  47S 

P.  A.  L.'a  eomnmniation-,  158 

PooU,  or  moQlha  of  atruma.  12 

Pranrbs,  406 

Pninpa,  low-hacM  aliota,  3S9 

Scripdt,!01 

SuniaiiMs  in  DomtadtT  Buok,  330 

Tha  Grecian  band,  513 

Tom  Tiddlar'a  gnnnd,  57 

Yorktbin  Fn^ar-bouk,  13 
DobaoD  (Tbocnaa)  on  tha  maaning  of  Kippar,  343 
"  Dodunentoa  Anbic«,"  303 

DSlliDgar  (Dr.  J.  J.  iKutiui  tod),  Otford  degru.  4S7 
"  Dolopathoa;  or,  the  King  and  the  SoTen  Wiia  Uan," 

Dootaadaj  Book,  ita  innumM,  330;  in  landoviier'a 

npreuDlaliTaa,  208 
Don  DD  EasUrn  ilorj  of  a  beaTj  slub,  12 

War  mtdali,  13 
Doona  (Dr.  John),  "Pouna,"  494i  latter  in  Walton's 

Ufa  of  him,  936 
Don,  >  fiunilj  name,  ila  dariration,  453 
Domo  (Lord  and  Ladj).  393 
DoDglaa    (W.    S.)    as    Bnma'    "Bicht    Goda-WllUa 

Waocbt,"  SDl 
Donr,  or  Dnr,  a  local  pnBi,  33,  193 
Donr  cutla,  amagglars  bung  in  front  of  it,  364,  445 
Downing  (Mra  Harriet),  Irlih  poaleai,  US,  389 
Dout  (Ltwii),  hii  agr,  40S 
Dojll  on  Eogliab  qnean  bariod  at  Porto  ^no,  308 
Spanior'a  "  Hfinn  of  HaaTanlj  Baantr,"  320 
Dragon,  aarliast  delinealioD,  13,  135, 174,  200,  344 
Dnunat,  political  aatirical,  491 
Dramatie  Alnuna^  for  IB71,  86 
DicDBaD  (W.  B.)  on  gipaioi  in  Irtlaod,  110 
DmidieaJ  biatorf,  487 

Dnim,  an  anning  partr,  iti  danntioo,  453,  536 
Dnimianrig  (tha  Laird  of).  190,  310 
Dnu7  Lant,  the  Bear  tivam,  .S63 
Drjdan  (John),  paaaags  in  "  Abaaltm  and  Aeliilophel,'' 

D.  (T.),  on  Gao^  London,  444 
Dnwta  (D.  Jacobo),  eolleetioa  of  ptotorat,  364 
DnbUn,  Gemiaa  Lutheran  chnnh,  345 
Dndlej  and  Ward  (John,  Dnd  Viacoont),  portrut,  335 
Dngdals  (Wm.),  aUnaiona   in    hia    "Histotj   of    St. 
Paol'a,"  281 


Don,  aa  a  hical  prafix,  104 

DnnkiD  (A.  &),  on  barbara'  forfidia,  23 

BaUoooa  and  oevapapen.  141 

Dour  or  Dor,  a  iooal  prefix,  158 

Laieashin  witohea,  504 

Pandiaa,  work  on,  105 

EMiariaa,  in  Snrraj,  35 
Dnnkin  (Edwin)  on  priota  of  Stooahaogo,  36 
Dankin(KH.  W.)onFeoekchDretar^Btar*,  238 
Dann  (Sanh),  a  canlanarian.  159 
Dor,  or  Door,  a  local  pnfii,  23,  158 
Dutch    newipaper,     1653,    339;     periodic*],    "  Oju 

Eniw,"  153 
D.  (W.)anGolleoliooafor  hiatorjof  laoa,  519 

Ua>T  Qnoeo  of  SoMa'  impriMmmenta,  536 

Scotch  nawapapna,  390 

Thnnuoa  (Jamea),  a  droiil,  401 
D.  (W.  G.)  on  the  Ola^ow  noddj,  165 

Goat  B.  inoaqnitoei,  416 
D.  <W.  T.  T.)  on  Charlca  II,  at  Milpu,  395 
Djar  (Sir  Edward),  -'  ^la  Idjllia,"  494 
Djer  (Jobn),  poal,  233,  353,  443,  S34,  546 
E^r  (Sunoal),  bia  portrut,  333 
DjniDDd  (E.)  on  Caij'a  "  PalmJogia  Chronica,"  871 

Btihop  Hordocai  Car;,  376 


Ear,  Uma  on  lb«  hnman,  235,  364,  334,  369 

Eaateni  ator7  of  a  hnTf  ilab,  12,  131 

Eating  to  axcaaa,  439 

Ebon^tun  oa  tha  Bhombna  and  Somi,  376 

EelipHi,  popnlkT  method  of  obaerring,  473 

EcaUtica,  woika  on,  31,  133,  193,  350 

E.  (D.  C.)  00  Robert  da  Comrn,  19 

Edward  I.,  mtnitfti  of  hU  daogblcr*,  304 

Edwari  IL,  "  Hialorr,"  398 

Edward  IV.,  letier  datail  Dec  10,  1460,  239,  313,  417 

Edward  the  Conftaaor  and  tbe  rin;;,  474 

Edwarda  (George),  A  D.  1545,388,464 

Effon"AgT(fflnglo  differ,"  518 

Bookworm,  468 

Pbelpa  (E.  S.),  "  Gatea  Ajar,"  4S3 

Boacoe'a  "  Life  of  Wilhun  Roaeoe,"  471 
BffBaaaa  cm  Sir  Thmaa  Sewall,  376 
E.  (G.)  on  Bobadil,  20S 

Congrara  and  Wjcherler,  486 

Hampden  familf,  279 


MDa,  it*  orarflowinga,  186 

Pfiea  Polonlca,  475 

Length  of  bair  in  men  and  women,  475 

Bapentant  thief,  490 

WvIUngtoQ  (Duke  of),  anecdote,  490 
;.  (0.  F.  S.)  oo  *■  'Tia  batter  to  have  loved  and  loat,' 
376 
Egartoo  (Sir  Cbarlas),  Knt^  II 
^ga  aa  an  article  of  food,  409,  464 
E.  (H.  T.)  on  "  The  Sfanba  of  FaraaBna,"  410 
"  Eikco  Baailike,"  anthonbip,  9,  235 
Eirionnach  do  quotationa  in  "  Bobinaoo  Cmaof,"  436 
E.  (K.  P.  D.)  on  cantenariana,  159 

Diax  (Bartohmaa)  and  th*  Capo  ronle,  195 

._■_..    -  --ntflitj,  43 


Sninrt  of  chattela  nndar  an  heriot,  30ft-~i 


oogic 


Mr,  daiigbler  of  Kbg  Jofan,  fatr  muiiigt,  SIOS 

mpau,  1  plane,  243,  314 
EliubUb,  diaghlar  of  Edward  L,  man-iigs,  204 
EliialMth  of  LuKaster,  mMTiajfs,  SaO 
Ella  ae  the  oldot  iimi  ia  EngUod,  464 
Elkcamba  (H.  T.)  on  lee«id  on  twil*.  95 
EUoM  on  cobb W  lamp  ia  ItaJj,  34S 

Parku  (J«Mpb)  memon  ud  orTapoDdmct,  74 

"  Point  dc  Tica,"  356 

Soog:  "  Ggod;  bMllad  ala,"  44 

'•-'---'-    -      ■      •  ■    ■         ■ire.311 


CbepMoMEtUigluicl,  S90 
EUil  f  J.  H,)  m  cfjpujgiaphj,  377 
Ellu  Globn),  DuBcalkDMO*  wriUr,  5 
Ellii  (B.  B.  W.)  00  Ajiarkala,  wth  of  Akbv,  sai 

Barbarous  mamcn,  2S1 

Bibliotheca  lodica,  54 

DoQDft  Juliana  Diu,  34 

"  DocamoiihB  ATabicot,"  303 

Manaolewn  and  tovii  UMvknllM,  385 

Poppa  Bai,  or  Qusoii  of  Uiarali,  190 
£1m  (Dr.  Kail)   aa  "  ManJiaot  of  Vaoic*;"   Un. 
Domiiiig,  142 

"  XimaD  cf  AUmu*,"  two  puMgw,  350 
EnalDonred,  aa  a  rarb,  4S9 
Engnnsg,  a  coriooi,  95;  earlj,  13,  191,  SI7,  332; 

iUal,510 
Enigma:  "  Cadinf  dm  hibM  mmn  Mpnlcbmn,"  513 
EdI;  (Bct.  Jobn),  liognphr,  55 

■pigrami; —  , 

Brown  (Ttmi)  oo  Dr.  Suniwl  felt,  2S3 
Fnocb  cock,  54 
Jackson  (C;ril)  nod  Katban  Wetberell,  321,  390, 

442, 518 
Walchtren  aipedition,  IS 

BpiUplu  :— 

Bailei  CJohii)  of  XorthampUn,  254 
Bird  (Ura.  Sotaniuh),  at  Slidnaporo,  280 
CoUa  (Thomai),  in  Wing  diurcb.  53 
Baron  (Bei.  Thoaiaa^  at  Sloko  Uolj  Croai,  94 
HoTonbam  church,  Wutmorclaad,  33 
Portland  (Richard  Weston,  lit  Earl  of),  325 
Stanley  (Sir  Tliamaa),  190,  292 
E.(B.>on  "Streak  of  ulTectea,"  486 
Eric  on  the  Dnke  of  Kent  in  Canada,  86 
E.  (K  B.  W.)  on  mnmmj-hiuitiDg,  491 
EfM  (Lotbar),  Iragedj  on  Huj  QuMn  of  Scou,  533 
Erskine  (John),  editor  of  Mb  "  Inrtitata,"  364 
Erikine  (Thomai,  Lord),  digappdotad  of  a  Ifgae;,  510 
Ea  and  £n,  59,  193,  264,  547 
Eipodan  on  A'Bockct'a  roaideroia,  395 
Oonningham  innianMs  347 
Laiid  or  lord,  328 
Pennjtemn,  CaottoH.  ale,  219 
Skkla  Bojrno:  Bojim  Uomj.  313 
Bate  on  Indnglriai  of  England,  289 
Erana  (John)  on  coin  of  I>)m>rina,  354 
Ewald  (H.  G.  A.)  and  Iha  ApocalfiiH,  175 
Exhibitico,  Inloiutiona],  of  1867,  67, 153,  181,  203, 

396,  355,  401 
E.  (T.  C.)  00  the  comploUoD  of  St.  Paal'a,  185 
Bjf*  (Brnthon  Van),  "  Adontioo  of  tho  Lamb,"  150 


F.  00  Calvin  and  Semtna,  141 

Foaler  (John)  of  Wordslej,  549 
Nile  and  the  Bible,  421 
F.  S  (W.)  on  the  boakwami,  168 

Cnnninjihim,  origin  of  the  •Bmanio,  221,  5S4 
"  The  Sonter  and  hia  Sov,-  467 
Facta  in  nneipecled  places,  297,  378 
Faklherbe  (G^n^nl),  noticed,  131 
Fairiii  conrt-houia  dealrojed,  508 
Fairfax  bmil;  pedigiea,  257 
Fairfotd  windows,  47 
Faiiy  cb«iReling>,  383 
Falkknd  (Lord),  noticed,  494 
Falknai  (T.  F.)  on  nwlrical  rerrion  of  the  Paahns,  305 
Falls(Hr.),  bispnii,  107 
FamiUee  without  coat  annour,  344,  420,  481 
Faradar  (Jamea),  pedcalrian  (tat,  140.  266 
•■  Farceor  (le)  dn  Jour  et  de  U  Knit,"  12 
Fanham  (Loid),  roemoir,  227;  nuDOacripti,  246 
Famn  (EUu),  hooH  in  Green  Etna:,  189 
Faussart  (Sister  Gnillemelte),  135 
Pall  (John),  biihop  of  Oxfnd,  283,  352 
Fall  (Samuel),  dnn  of  Christ  Chnrch,  283,  SU 
Female  lalnt  TapraanitBd,  66, 150 
Fondles:  Boancbamp,  318 
FenoUn.  or  Fendlea  (Sir  Wm.  da),  daitghtv  Hatgaiet, 

13,323,318,437,505 
Fenwick  Camilj,  33 
FenwiiJc  (Ladj),  her  disintermont,  33 
Fanwick  (Wm.),  major  of  Hnll,  biographj,  23S 
Fergussoo  (J.)  on  tie  completion  of  St.  Psol'i,  390 
Pernio  (T.  P.)  on  engraving  of  Anne  of  Denmark,  533 
Fenw  (Nicliolas)  and  Gooiga  Boggle,  490 
Forren(Lad7),  ballad,  209,  334 
Fern;  (B.)  on  St.  Paul's  cathedral,  itscompletkm,  344, 
460 

Start's  Book  of  Comnuo  Frajer,  283 
F«t  in  the  Sarar  arms,  32,  104 
Fetter-lock,  a  csgniiance  of  the  Long  bmUj,  42S,  536 
F.  (G.)  on  bean'  aara,  SSO 
Fictko  and  fact,  494 
Ficnnea  familT  pedigree,  438 
FiUalpetT,  121,180,  199 
Findoma  flowers,  194,  313 
Finklej,  ■rcbRolegical  discoreries,  528 
Flab  and  the  baik  "  PrDTidaDce.'  492 
Fiebermen  in  the  olden  time,  174 
Fishwtck  (H.)  on  Btdgn,  245 

FrcaC  on  tbo  ohorteat  daj,  73 

Saarbrtlck  custom,  174 

Stilts=Enitch«s.  243 
Fili-HamTS  (Bobert),  ganaalogj,  222.  293 
Fitibopkina  on  a  black  cnont/j  l^and,  I  ST 

Fonanl  flowers:  Goldsmitb,  436 

Jesli,  445 

Old  joktt,  131 

EchoofanaMer  abroad  in  Staffbrdihire,  311 

Siorj  and  its  expansion,  33 
FiU-Mchard  on  panning  and  jesting  oo  Dimes,  107 

Ricliard  Flantagenet,  150 
Filutratheme  (Mr.),  506 
F,  (J.)  on  the  sigu  of  the  Zodiac,  344 
F.  (J.  T.)  on  babies'  bells,  31  <  > 

BoA  of  Common  Pnjer,  (d.  1722,  H1|j(^X)Q|C 


*,  witli  Ko.lag.Jili'U,  1 


S) 


F.  (J.  T.;  on  bnrff  or  barf.  379 

Cobbltn'  lunpa  in  lUIj,  138 

Gigulic  tin  BinRing  tnmipeti,  530 

Gon,  its  dnintion,  SB 

"  Mar;  U*gd*lcii's  tun,"  its  uiUioc,  95 

Monl  pwating  ia  Suntim  cborch,  40 

Print  <i  tha  Pradigil  Son,  56 

Sh*rd.  or  nhani,  103 

Willi  cithadnl.  ita  Anbio  nDDunlt,  376 
F.  (J.  W.)  on  New  Ze«l«nJ  medMl,  137 


W«m 


I,  131,  4 


Flag,  tha  new  German  imperi*!,  3S2,  416,  S03 

Fltnueh  bmiliu,  their  anne,  11,  310 

Flemith  fiohaniiHi  ia  England,  S13 

Flenr7  (Abb£  da),  litter  to  Cud.  Gaallcrio,  69 

Florin,  th«  goldni,  208 

Ftf'fiiliiDg,  artificial,  161,  SfiS 

Fljn  (DiTid)  ou  lbs  boj-biabop  at  Ctuiitmae,  SI 

Fog,  meaning  of  the  word,  96,  316,  351,  466 

FoIkLor*:— 

Ague  chamu,  443,  483 

American  folk  lore,  91,  SS 

Blackbird*  ainclDg  before  Cfariatmaa,  186 

Froet  on  the  eborteat  daj,  73 

Fnneral,  51,63,  331,  £98 

Gabriel  homidi,  299 

Garlio,  its  anli-witchcraft  prapertioe,  SOC 

Gnvee  open  on  Sondaji,  471 

liisb:  Crawte;  nr.  Crairlej,  399 

Ein^re  anpentitioos,  93 

Mew  moon  and  the  nuldi,  445 

New  jear  snperstition,  299 

Sheffield  folk  lore,  399,  439 

Slow  womi,  437,  547 

Soeeiing.  361 

Staabrdshice  folk  lore,  91 

Summer  riinrdl  and  the  great  bear,  300 

Teeth  Iblk  lore,  SS 

Thnoder,  428 

Toade  cnre  g  lend  ulir  swelling,  210 

Weather  sajrings,  299,  300,  343,  419,  445 

Winter  sajing,  18 
Foolo  (Sainnel)  MS.  of  "  Pietj  in  Pattens,"  161 1  cha- 
racters in  bis  "ChrTsal,"  186 
Ford  Abbej  sale  ol  peintinp,  475 
Ford  (J.  W.)  on  tbe  game  of  Oa>bn,  306 
Foreigner  on  a  German  Etjniological  Dictionary,  303 
Forrest  (C.)  sen.  on  black  wax,  443 
Foiiter  (Dr.  Thomas),  "  Anlhologia  Borealis  et  Ana- 

tralie,"  160 
Fortaoe  thealre,  183 

Foacolo  (Ugo),  remoral  of  hii  remaine,  528 
Foster  (John)  of  Wordslej,  410,  549 
Foooders'  kin,  pedigrees  of;  389 
Fonntains  sbtxr,  141,  269 
Fowler  (J.  T.)  on  Foontaina  ibbaf,  369 
"  Fdi'h  Uaitjn,"  a  satire,  383 
F07«i,  the  falbi  of,  62,  17S 
Fra  (Gaston)  on  ichoolboj  wordi,  44 
France,  its  reigning  beaatlea,  437 ;  ctAns  of  the  Bepnb- 

■  lies,  473,  526 
Francis  (Sii  Plillip),  a  Jnnins  claimant,  431,  453,  489 
Franklin  (Benjamin),  Uuiat  wruth,  1S9 
Fnsar  or  Filicl  familia,  55,  179,  330 
"Fraser'a  Magaune,"  peitraita  circa  183S,  31,  311 


is  alleged  lelta  to  Prinos 


Frederick  king  of  Fiosu 

Charln  Stnart,  117 
Frers  (G.  E.)  on  Sir  John  Powell,  466 
FrettoD  (W.  G.)  on  bells  of  Sl  Ulchael'i,  Corvitiy,  46 
Fridij  tree,  or  non-eaccess,  123,  199 
Pritwell  (Hain)  on  Chignons,  326 

"  Gentleman  of  the  Pavement,"  341 

Old  families  irithoat  coat  aimoar,  430 

"  Stewing  in  their  own  gnivj,"  187 

Tennjion  and  CongreTe.  301 
P.  (R.  J.)  on  Dorer  castle,  364 

Scot's  HiU  in  Kent,  433 
Frock  ohnrch  regialer,  its  reooverj,  232 
Frosts,  ssTere  ones,  18 
Fraila,  wild,  in  Gemanj,  233 
Fr;  (Fiancis)  on  Tjndale's  New  TesUmenl,  30 

Bishops'  vereion  of  the  Bible  nied  bf  tbi  trans< 
Utors  of  the  Aatborised  Veiaion,  74 
F.  ^S.  fi.)  on  Horan  fimil/  aimi,  454 
F.  (T.  P.)  on  the  marriage  <^  the  Duke  of  Uaochater, 
364 

Tlnpablisbed  letter  of Easai,  406 

Fnlham  porcelun  dishes,  37 
Fallam  (G.  T.)  on  tlK  Janne;  familj,  312 
Fnller  (Wm.),  bishop  of  Lincoln,  puentagr.  257,  351 
Fonenl  cuatoms  in  the  Highlands,  51,367;  in  Lan- 
cashire, 331 ;  at  CleTeLu>d,  396 
Foneral  Sowers,  436 

Fomess  Abbe;  and  the  Chellum  Socielj,  74,  310 
FnraiTaU  (F.  J.)  on  Chaucer's  birth,  413,  Work*, 

493 
Fast  (Sir  Edward),  his  sword,  77 
Fust  (H.  Jenaer),jan.  on  Jennoor  (amilj,  152 
F.  (W.  G.)  on  plans  in  "  Beauties  of  EogUnd  and  Walea,' ' 

34 
F.  (W.  H.)  on  tbe  memory  of  smslls,  414 


G.,  EdMtirgh,  on  Lord  Erskine,  510 

"  Foi's  Uartrrs,"  a  satire,  388 

Hamasncken.  a  legal  term,  357 

Judicial  oaths,  309,  440 
■       Uar's  year,  186 

«  The  Deaf  Old  Woman,"  75 

The  Sonter  and  his  Sow,  36t 

Wolfe  (Gen.)  and  the  20th  fool,  53 
G.  (A.)  on  Dr.  Benjamin  Carier,  180 

Hilarion'i  servant,  the  sage  crow,  17B 

"  Poems  on  the  Foot  Last  Things,"  535 

"  The  Song  of  Solomon,"  515 

Wearer's  art,  244 
Gabriel  honads,  399 

Gainsbonmgh  (Thomas),  "  Bine  Boj,"  237, 366,  391 
GaiDsbargh  legend,  251,  457 

Gsirdner  (J-imes).  on  Icller  of  Edward  IV.,  329,  417 
Galileo,  his  letter.  13,  113 
Galimatias  =  nonseose,  174 
Gamse,  cbilJnn's  141,  371,  415,  506,  523 
Ganthe  (Hanese)  of  Dantiig,  283 
Gantillon  (P.  J.  F.)  on  Denn/'a  Greek  traoslatiaB,  76 

EjMgram  bj  Owen,  292 

Hood's  po«ni,  393 

Trench's  Hnlscan  Lectures,  7S 
Gardiner  (S.  B.)  on  FfaiUp  Barlamaohi,  550 

Doke  of  Buckingham's  mother,  469,  544 
Gardner  (J.  D.)  on  Skedaddle, 351  (     (ItlQ  lp 


I  qonin,  wiui  Ha.  IM.  Job  ii.  i* 


OaHie,  iU  inti-irilcbcnft  praptrtiM,  KK 

OuTon.  k  unill  bone.  49« 

Gupcj  (  Win.)  DD  tha  lut  or  (ha  Phntngenel?,  !T  1 

GiUb,  Ills  of  Man,  409.  tS4 

GattJ'  (Dr.  A.  I  on  Bitkn's  panaramiu.  *!ti 

Uwj  Qaani  of  Seola'  nptiiit;  in  EnsUnd,  461 
Gitlj  (BlargarH)  m  bibln'  lifllH.  45 

Ballad  oT  Ladj  Fnrtn.  209 

Set-drajnn  delineated,  ISS 

Son-dial  qoeriei,  399 
Giddee  (D.)  oa  tbt  nwuilne  of  lo-.  S  t6 
Gem  qoeiy.  3S3,  3'J7 


i,3S1,4 


Gsneritiuiu  within  living  memory,  387 

Ointleinen,  u  OMd  in  the  arinj,  79 

■'  Gentlemen  of  the  Pavement,"  341 

George  IV.,  hi*  iMt  daje,  4 13 

German  EtjmolDrical  Diclionarr,  303,  380,  456 

Gmnan  imperial  Sifc.  32!,  416,  S03 

Gannan  pince  inquired  after,  235 

Oamuni  of  the  fint  and  nioaleenlb  centurica,  87 

Geronda  convent,  95  !i 

■■  Gcaehichta  dca  beiUhnilan  Berggeista  Gnam*  auT  den 

SndeleD,"  55 
G;.  00  Arundel  and  Arandetlo,  234 
G.  (C.  U.)  on  SbaabnTK  lilwatT,  283 
Gheelln  Beljtiain,  IhehomsofmadaHn,  91 
GharkiB,  ita  dtrixtion.  IU,  103 
G.  (H.  J.)  OD  amu  of  G«anu  of  Perclir,  1 1 1 
Ohoat  itory:  Lord  Heeling  453 
G.  (H.  S.)  OD  Albanej  and  AiDoitdnillt,  23i 

Alcdck  <BUiop),  hii  arms,  334 

Boonw  and  Crufc  families,  aiS6 

Cbermn,  4S7 

Cookeaa;  familj.  523 

Cotbett  fimilj,  408 

Cranfurda  of  Ne«aik,  Uraieti,  548 


Dora,  a  fan 


0,453 


Heraldrf,  the  barnnr.  474 
Gibbi  (H.  U.)  on  bsbiei'  bells,  133 

fioTe7(JahD),  179 

MaDoacript  Uon,  539 

Ombre,  a  game,  167 
Gibaoa  (Bp.  Edmund),  mo(b«r  and  wife,  76 
QibaoD  (WiUiun  Sdno}),  bis  death,  48 
Gilbert  (James)  oDOCOTirial  song,  151 

Himel  (Nicholas),  64 

PiaDoforle,  its  first  public  exhibition,  143 

Refbnnbillin  1831,  113 

Local  timrDamenla,  105 
Giiaiei  in  Ireland,  110;  Ib^rcaokay,  1 3 1 
G.  (J.  A.)  on  bell-Hnging,  388 

Cmnoidanoe  of  thooght,  93 

CirighlOD  (Dr.  Robert),  142 

Eggs  u  an  article  of  hoi,  409 

Gigantic  o>,  159 

Marriages  before  twetre  o'elock,  364 

SooDet  qoeriet,  545 

"Stewing  in  their  own  graTj,"  373 

TbomaoD  (James)  s  Druid,  SS5 
Gbdh,  its  dariialion,  454 
GUmma  mlerfall,  62,  ITS 
Giaa  on  the  English  InTaaioo  of  SwiturUnd,  3S 
Glallen,a  prarinctilism,  121;  its  meaning,  364,446, 

494,848 
GlcDoaini  (James,  Earl  oQ,  Irtler  to  Jsmea  VI.,  90 


Gnats,  their  bite,  !58.  359.  416.  505 
Godolpbin  (SjdiKT),  364,  462.  507 
Gedolphin  (Sfdne;,  Earl  of),  364 
•<  God's  bdij,"  iis  meaning,  SS-l 
Ootding  (C.)  oa  Glatton,  its  nMning,  44S 

SaRblk  nod  screens,  267 
poldnmid  (Jalisn),  present  to  the  UniTwdtjf  of  Londcn, 

336 
Guldsmith  (OliTer),  Elwrj  on  J.  r.  Sleigh,  9,  66,  84. 

131;  his  tomb,  426 
"  Good  night,"  ftr.,  atsniss  on,  96 
Goosnargb  chapdrj,  its  bielurj,  193 
Gars,  erected  oniiren,  113 

Goras.  its  emblematical  meaning,  3S3,  379,  467,  935 
Curt  (Vucannt)  on  the  familir  of  Piennes,  438 

Monming  writing  p»ii«r,S78 

Scottish  gnsrd  of  Kmnce,  455 

Smyth  fimilj  of  Iraland,  122 

"  Son  nertr  selling  en  the  Biitish  dominHnn.''  39S 
Gianthaia.  alias  Blnetown,  44;  inn  eigne,  343.  440 
Onaebnnh(B.  &)onWorcsBteishinabenK>'anu*,410 
G.  (R.  C.)  on  "  Thie  ean  night,'  Ac..  133 
G.  (R.  E.)  on  Bnbene'  "  Judgment  of  Pans,"  364 
Grecian  bsnd.origin  of  tha  term,  193,513 
Greek  and  Boman  literature,  479 
Greek  pronnnciation.  13,  173 
Gieen  (G.  M.)  on  book  oraamantatloD,  147 

Cirlo  CrtTelli.  170 

Carrier  (Baitjamin),  190 

GaliWi  letter,  113 

Stmonidea  and  the  Codei  Sinsiticiii,  179 
Greene  f  Lwljr  Kstlierine),  Itmp.  Charles  tL,  2 
Greene  (R.),  "  Tha  Prodigal  Son, '  407 
Greanowif  family,  535 
Greensleeres  (Ladj).  her  piclnrc,  475,  550 
Gregoij  (Bsnurd),  editor  of  "The  Satirist,"  327 
Gretlej  (Sit  Nigel^  porcelain  msnnftetorj,  T9 
Grey  (Arthur),  ode  lo,  207,  375 
Griffiths  (E.)  on  Bihiea,  lonp.  James  t„  534 
Orimstnn  (Ladf  Anne),  grars  in  Tewin  churcbrard, 

76,  128,  173,  195.273.309 
G.  (R.  J.).  OR  ■'  The  Plain  Dealer,"  467 
Graaart  (A.  B.)  m  the  Rer.  Tbonas  Brooks,  417 

Egsrton  (SirCharlsi),  knt.,  13 

Falkland  (Lord),  Dr.  Donne,  sod  E.  Djer,  494 

Uogao,  or  Hogheni,  481 

Vinghsn  (Henry),  allusion  in  bis  poem,  II 
GroU  (George),  his  lieslh,  552 

Goaltsrio,  (Card.),  papers  in  the  British  Museum,  69 
Gnido  Caols^,  lines  oa  bis  '  Anm,"  13,  113,221, 

293 
Onlld  of  Literature  and  Art,  26 
Goisoand  Guisot,  their  prunundstlon,  US,  270,  333 
Gnlsao  (E.)  on  Daronshin  words,  4t9 
Gnn.  its  deriTalion,  97,  149 
G.  (W.)  00  Medicrat  barm,  324 

Neneoien  in  Cumberland,  &c,  360 

Punning  and  Jetting  on  names,  106 
Gwja  (John  Fraoi>c«B),  sals  of  pointings,  479 
Gwjn  (NeU),  letter  to  Hr.  Hyde,  3 

H  * 

H.  on  English  descent  of  Dinlel  O'CooneR  342 
H.,  DMm,  on  Sin  and  ihe  Whiteboya,  124 
a,  T^irreg,  on  the  long  rrctonhip'ol  B.  "  " 
H.  (A.)  on  Chanccr'a  birth,  413, 


SMinMo„96  ■ 


Index  BopcAemmio  tlia  HoW 


H.  (A.)  on  ediurial  ocntauviu,  40S 

Gherkin  and  cncnniber,  108 

Henldic,  489 

"  Tlmon  of  Aihens,''  two  puugw,  463 

Wud,  u  ■  penoul  uma,  350 
Hkbeis  CorpDB  Act  piiaed  w  ■  j<^  161 
Hiir  growing  sfter  daUta,  06,  S3,  130,  SSS,  390,  815, 

Halkett  (Swniul),  bia  dwtb,  3B1 

Hall  (H.)  oD  G6U  TOD  Baiktungw,  509 

HiUUJ.  C.  T.)  on  pirodiM.  177 

H*)]  (Wm.)  uudiaoBtr.  893 

HilliwaU,  (J.  0.)  on  HS.  notn  Id  "  BMiagh't  SiOorj 

of  the  WMld,"  86 
Ibinal  (Nicholu),  trench  lotbir,  64 
HuDoJn,  the  jiei  pfer  of,  84 
Hunceneken,  *  liw  turn,  357,  334 
Hunpden  hmilj,  189,  278,  383,  441 
HampBiun  conctrj  chnrcbjard,  174 
Hueocka,  funilj  of  Combnurtin,  189 
Handel  (G.  V.),taoeaio  tor  iha  hup,  307 ;  "  Maaaiah," 

304,349 
Hercoart  (Van.  Cbailea  Oacn^  Varnoo,  his  daUh),  SS 
Huh  taking  Tengeauoa  on  minkjiid,  359,  898 
Harland  (Rer.  Bi^X  ^  t<>>^g<^i  99 
Harmiin  (Sir  John),  his  death,  3(5 
Hiiri«r  (Thomu)  on  Motbw  Bed  Cap,  388 
Huria  (Joseph),  icUiI,  3 
Haniaoa  (Anna)  on  Amaricu  natisnal  ami,  '^ 

Fiodeme  flovera,  1 94 
HanisOD  (Joseph),  jaiL,  en  balUd  "  Notting,"  163 
Hirriaon  (Wm.)  on  king  or  qnaen  cf  the  lila  of  Utit, 

249 
Harroi'  School,  ila  fmiBder,  804;  taneaiteiuiy,  487 
Hart  (Mrs.),  actress,  3,  198 
Harveis  (Robeit),  genealogr,  23S 
Han-ej  (Ladj  Eliiabltb),  3 
Hastings  (Lord),  a  glioat  ttorj,  453 
HaTct^  (F.  T.)  on  ihe  Sanini  micaa],  65 

Vulgate  Bible  of  1516,344 
Hafdon  (B.  R.),  painter,  pediETee,  55,  143 
HajdoQ  (Ftftnk  Scott)  on  B.  a  HafdoB,  143 
Haj-m  (N.  F.),  "  History  of  Music,"  23 
B.  (C.  G.)  on  lines  on  Abp.  Adaalm,  3G4 
H.  (E.)  on  tapestry  portraita,  511 
Heanley  (R,  M.)  on  epithets  of  the  rnontbt,  419 
"  Heart  of  Ijearts,'  the  phnue,  363,  S99,  463,  548 
Hearth  lai,  113 
Haavea  letters,  139 
Hebrews  ii.  16,  a  new  readii^,  313 
Heliogabalos  and  cobmba,  5SS 
Helmstey  tttne,  41,  133,317 
Helab;  (T.),  on  Ashbnmers  of  Fotneaa,  337 
Pasley  or  Paslewe  hinllf,  210,  593 
"  Seven  Stan  "  inn,  Manchaatar,  367 
Shakapeare  and  Arden,  118 
Smith  bmiliea,  17S 
Btafnj  (U.  W.),  on  Charles  I.'s  deven  ahllliag  piecea, 
486 
Che«  in  China,  IS8 
Crests,  their  proper  use,  353 
Cromwell  (Oliver),  474,  481 
Nomisnulic,  526 
Parie  librariea  and  mnnrnna,  331 
SJtnon  (TlKino),  medallist,  SIS 
TeadaloDe  ring,  399 


Sml^  (Bar.  Sunoel),  35,  113,  174,344 
Henr;  VIL,  marriage  of  his  danghtar  Uaiy,  389 
Henry  VIII.  and  the  Golden  Fleara.  383,  370 
Henidic  qaeries,  12,  146,  409,  483 
Heralds'  Visitation  of  Oxford,  355 
Herbert  family  of  Mnckitiaa,  13 
Herbert  (Richard)  of  London,  anceatry,  494 
Herbs  and  leaTee,  noteiets  on,  SOS,  348,  446 
Herefordshire  msDor-honsaa,  387 
Heriot,  seizors  of  ohattals  under  one,  302 
Heriz  family  of  Withcote,  oo.  Ltiwstar,  125 
Hennentrnde  on  the  Adraot  Hymil,  133 
Avery  pedigraa,  161 
fialiol  (William),  506 
Beauchamp  amu,  443 
Becket's  murderers,  464 
Bows  and  cnKaey^  320 
Clarence  family,  150 
Chaucer's  Inrth,  113,  547 
DeBohnnfamjiy,  ISO  ' 

Edwardo  (George),  464 
English  qnoen  hnried  at  Porto  Finn,  375 
English  princajBBB,  their  msrriagaa,  530 
"  From  clogs  to  clogi,"  etc.,  547 
Jndicia]  oaths,  354,  50S 
"  Lady  GreenaleeTas,"  a  ballad,  550 
Latimer  (Geo.  NeiiUe,  Lord),  his  wifs,  319 
Long  family  of  Wr«t»ll,  486 
Uacdnff,  Thane  of  Fife,  132 
Maids  of  honour,  441 
Mora  familT,  401 
Mortinier  pedigree.  333 
Paalewa  bmily,  354 
Placard=slDiiiacher,  389 
St  Jane  of  Valois,  301 
Smith  (Bev.  William),  a.d.  1539-1556,  77 
StaSbrd  (Abp.),  origin  of,  50O 
Suffolk  (Charlea  Brandon,  Dnka  of), 

230 
Wnlfrnna,  13 
Herrey  (Robt.  F.),  "  CencMilaDcea,'  1*2,  467 
HerTey,Duko  of  Orleans,  anoeslry,Jfce.,  123 
Harvey  (Re«.  James)  uid  Wm.  HBfiuib.  2S5 
Heaketh  (Bp.  Huan),  of  Sodor  and  Man,  84 
HoshIs  (J.  H.)  on  Sir  Robert  Killigrw,  fta,  4fl 
H.  (F.  C.)  on  American  national  aong,  78 
AnoedolBS.  196 
"  Anima  Christi,"  374 
Bears'  care,  350 
Bill  artnally  presented,  133 
Bookworm,  its  nragea,  65 
Bntler'a  Blue  and  Red  Books,  190 
Carrier  (Benjamin),  333 
Charm*  for  agne,  483 
Chiistma*  carol,  33 
Cistardan  abbeys,  369 
Dsafold  woman,  196 
Dedication  of  chnrcfaa.  480 
Dr^oo  delineations,  125 
Egg*  a*  an  article  of  food,  484 
EcsUtica  and  AddoloraU,  193 
Elecampane,  314 
Engliah  Teinflcation,  464 


bjGoogle 


m 


H.  (F.  C.)  on  Gflna,  id  cmUapitie  ngolfi 
Hail  growisg  iftn  daath,  B3 
HokulMM^MO 
Hola  in  tba  Will,  an  im  ugn,  201 
UCanods,  149 
LisealDibin  driDldsg-tong,  S27 


1,484 


HtdioU  Otdar  of  SL  Joho,  294 
MtuMinto  prinU.  483 
U«mt  Calnrj,  63,  215 
Houming,  «  black-«dg(d,  writuig  paptr,  S07 
Mnnl  piiDting  in  SuntoQ  churcb,  40,  410 
Nitiiitr  of  ODr  LbiI,  ftut  of  the,  235 
NtUim  (Lord),  ojJniDii  of  Gumui  gentrali,  74 
''Pinoa  tad  Bicon,"  ■  »Dg,  171 
FNt  propbtdei,  151 
Pbuird,  it!  lignificalioii,  445 
Propbcda  of  Tbomiu  Hirtin,  33 
Propbecr  of  Orvd,  63  , 

St.  Angoitin's  Sennoni,  17 
St  Jaua,  or  Jouna,  of  V*loii,  150 
St  Panl,  tba  Gnt  hermit,  112,  245 
St  Ttaomu  of  VlilaDovi,  4S1 
St  WdITtu,  26S 
Scriputa,  146 

Shaenrort,  a  pluit,  2S.  332.  S27 
"Tha  HwTiiig  of  tba  Laid,'  14S 
"  Tboogh  laM  U  dgbt,  to  nwmor;  dear,"  1 73, 3: 
Tatragnul  iimriptwD,  379 
Titian  of  ugar,  1 10 
Valoat  papal  alaotion*,  369 
Walla  aithadra],  tu  AraUo  luiDinali,  375 
"Wlittherorno,"286 
H.  (F.  H.)  on  "Fint  Impcaations, 


854 


Daj  in  India,' 

SanuD  Uiuat,  177 
H.  (G.  J.)  OD  tha  nUI  of  ElUabath  Talbot,  384 
H.  (H.),  Porlmaiilh,  on  Olirar  tbe  Bpj,  66 

PnDcb-lulla  of  Gaocga  III.,  33G 

Sasdovn  Caatla,  Ua  <tf  Wgbt,  179 

Watefaca  of  diatingiusbad  men,  369 
Hibbiu  —  liltia  aft  or  nairt,  510 
tlio  at  oblqna  on  book  onianKiitaiioii,  147 

SnpetilatioD  in  Suffolk,  210 
Higdao  (Ralpb),  "  Poljcroaiooo,''  42S 
Uighlaod  cuatoma  at  birtba,  marriagta,  and  fncerala, 

50,367 
Hlgaon  (John)  oo  cbilditD'a  gamea,  S2S 


BUI  (Lord  Artbnr),  pun  oo  him,  107 
Hind'a  HI]],  naar  GodalmiDg.  iiwcripUoii,  344,  379 
HiDtm  <Chirl«),  no  Dr.  Johnson'a  watch,  151 
Hiitorical  Sooiatj  meetiog,  592 
EiUorj  rapaaliiig  ilaalf;  360 
H.  (I.  W.)  OD  tba  BleaUaj  funil;,  141 
H.  (J.)  cm  Lwd  Bjim'i "  Engliab  Barda,"  23 
Cancan,  a  danc*,  108 
Uanlal  aqoaUtj  of  the  him,  223 
"  Tba  greitaat  clarka  Dot  tba  iriaeat  men,"  4U9 
H.  (J.  F.)  on  a  French  Weilejan  bfagaiino,  325 
H.  (U.)  on  Harriet  Garke'i  longerilr,  511 
Bnh  in  tba  Wfill  an  ioa  liim.  123.201.320,310,417 


■A.  t^onlei,  Wlui  No.  18i,JiiljU,l«-L 

Hodgkin  (J.  E.)  on  tha  antiqnilr  of  cbigoaiB,  361 
Notes  oo  flj-laane,  3SS 
St.  Valentine,  133 
Hogas,  galloping  and  drinking,  430,  461,  534 
Hogartb   (Wm.),    book-plalee,   304  ;  [rint    of    Lerd 

LoTat  3S5  ;  TigDatta,  355 
Hogg  (Jamea),  long  "  SilmeD;,"  393 
H^  (Robert)  on  George  London,  505 
Hdeni  lanatns  —  Yorkihire  fog,  333,  380 
Hok  (H.  F.)  on  Adam  de  Orlelon,  53,  308 
Block  Boaka,  13,317 

Huirr  VJIL  and  tba  Golden  Fleece,  370 
Holt  (H.  F.),  hU  daath,  S81 
HiJlt;  (L,  C.  H.),  German  poet,  174.  244 
Qoljwcll:  OiirLadj'afHolfwell.475 
HotiKBopathj  Dotic«d  bj  UUton  and  Hippocratea,  94,109 
Hood  (Thuiua),  "Addreaa  to  Ur.  CroM,"  472 ;  "  L*e 

Ebon,"  32,  197i  Wnki,  ISl 
Hook  (Theodora),  ttorj  aacribwi  to  bun,  73,  196,  314 
Hooker  (Uaria)  on  Mango  Park  and  the  mso,  440 
Hopkynt  (D.  D.),  oo  Ladj  Grimiton'e  graTa,  128 
Hnan  Eunilj  arms,  454 
Hoakjna-Abrabalt  (John)  on  lothing  land,  19 
Eonia  of  Commons,  ■paeohn  after  midqj^t,  402 
"  Honss  thai  Jack  bnilt,"  ita  original  model,  23 
Honnet  (Jean)  ofUgnt  Valerian,  135 
Htnrlinton  (Robert),  a  centenarian,  120 
Homa  abba;  register,  S58 
H.  tB.)  on  "  Cold  as  a  dog's  mm,"  114 
H.  (8.)  on  the  meamag  of  Fog,  96 
H.  (5.  H.  A.)  on  R.  F.  Henef,  143 
H.  (T.)  on  tba  "  fretftil  parcnpioe,''  453 
H.  (T.  A.)  on  Eer.  John  Macgowan,  38S 
H.(T.  C.  G.)on  tba  patronjniio  "  ing,"  105 
Hnnw  (Datid),  pedigree,  71 
Hnngaribcd  famUr,  425,  43fi,  536 
HnncdoD  eharab,  go.  Hartford,  250 
Hooidoa  honae,  ca  Hertford,  350 
Hunt  (J.  B.  Leigh)    "  Leiann  Honn  in  Town,"  36, 

133,  198i  "The  Months,"  336 
Hnolariin  Clob,  36 

Hmband  (B.  A.)  on  negro  prorerba,  43 
Htubandmaa,  its  meaning,  255 
Hnak  (W.  H.)  on  CanTiiial  aonge,  294 

Ctannell  (OliTor)  medali,  495 

"  Tba  Golden  I^pfao,"  218 

"  The  HeaTing  of  tbe  Lead,"  30O 
H.  CW.)  on  the  Bodleian  USS.,  406 

Ciitidsm  on  "  Horcbant  of  Venice,"  37 1 

Ci«a«ell  (Olirer),  teeter,  291 

EUw-abillittg  i4ecaa  of  Charles  f.,  443       - 

Sampler  pocaj,  331 

Selenca  and  art,  334 
B.(X.)  on  the  Hall  of  Waters,  113 
H;de  (H.  B.)  on  Da  Saya  famtlj,  S7S 
Hj-jinas,  a  ttpij  merriment,  437 
Hjmnolcg]' :  "  Guide  nia,  O  thoa'  great  Jtborah,"  S3; 

"Adwnt,"    41,    183,    317;  *•  Janualem  1  my 

bapp7  home,*  41,  151;  "The  Lord  is  nj  SbejK 


"  310; 
298,  376 


"The 


1.  (C.  P.)  on  Latin  piwarb,  419 
"  Salens  est  SHus  qnl  noTlt 
War  medals,  S94 


patnay"  81*  i 


BappLfmoil 


lat,  JnlT  IS,  1 


S! 


I  (H.  M.)  on  kUtngoinl  irucription,  344' 

Indua,  tbeit  aUlU;,  43, 149 

IndiutriM  of  Engknd,  309,  SB9,  441 

lofuita,  thdr  nuniigc,  105 

"  lug,"  ■  local  tHminition,  105 

Inkituid  of  Wadgwooa  w»n,  163,  37a 

Inntc  Ttmplar  on  the  nccidanta'  compeasitioa  lull,  4 

WillUnu  (Pbilip),  initepbor,  S36 
Imu,  udent,  in  Engluil,  287,  334,  464,  510 
Inscription  at  Hinda  Hill,  neu  Godaloiing,  344,  37 
Ion  on  Ilia  Roger  familj,  S44 
"  Ipomrdon,"  a  prcM  romance,  3S5 
Iriih  HoQM  of  Comnwna'  lisu,  333 
Inland,  bistoric  docaineatii,  3S0;  Ronnd  Toiren,  4 
Inland  (Alax.)  on  Leigb  Hnnt'i  "Leisnn  Honn,* 
Ifiifa  biabopt,  strange  fee  paid  bj  them,  161 
[riih  ear  mi  noddf,  S3, 163 
Irish  IbrEntnrts,  21, 109 
Iriah  Itgtodi,  "  Lebiv  u  Hnidn,"  399 
Iriih  lagiuuiin  in  Itio  do  Janeiro,  403,  486 
Iriib  manoacdpti  belonging  to  Lhvjd,  43 
Iriih  "pronncial  characleriatica,''  319,  3S0 


Iilea  of  the  Sirens,  337 

lulj,    aoliqiurian     eiciTaliona   in,   47;    it!   didactic 

poelij,  149 
Iran  on  an  UMDjimoa  work,  33 
UwJua  (Prloce  Pnockler),  77 


143 

,    ,  H"  BofiH  money,  236 

amich  familj,  176 
Jackion  (J,  E.)  on  tbe  fottcr-look  u  a  cognizance,  536 

Bair  gnmiog  after  deatb,  476 

Uoon  (Sir  George),  467 
Jaduon  (Stepben)  on  the  Brokon  Bridge,  160 

"  Aliqoando  dormlut  boom  Homenu,"  54 

Craiea  aaying,  187 

Comberland'a  British  Tbaatrc,  84 

D;*r  (John),  tbe  post,  353,  534 

Hob  in  the  wsU,  310 

Euhmir,  Iti  anoient  boildinga,  1 10 

Nama,  signlEcant,  30 

ITwholson  (Benloa),  "  Baron,"  IS 

Oonwced  or  Umered,  475 

"  Owll  that  loreat  tfas  boding  iV},"  190 

Paradioa,  261 

"Pigam«rflj,'Ao.,41 

Bsasuna  for  going  lo  chnrch,  100 

Sawney  Beans,  Ihe  man-ealer,  77 

Tbotnson  (Jainei),  why  called  a  Dmid,  97 

Tr»pp'«  "Virgil."  337 
Jamaica,  goremora  of,  1720-1760,  189 
Jainei  L,   legal  commoo-placea  In  his  reign,  5,  S3; 
Earl  of  GIsncaim's  letter  lo  him,  90;  Scottish  litnr- 
gie*  of  his  reign,  907 
Jamas  lU.  of  Scotland,  bonas  of  lila  aaauainaUoD,  397 
Jamicson  (AIn.),  matbematidan,  142,  919 
Jtnney  family,  SIS 

Jarris  (J.  W.)  on  book  onuuncntation,  111 
Jaydte  on  John  Djer'a  "  Grongar  Bill,"  444 


nlbnot  and  BnlhTen,  342 

Baiigh=rnffiBn,  431,  551 

" Well-nigh"  for  "almoit,'  332 

Wiay  (Capriciona),  466 
J.  CB.  T.)  on  Indoaliies  of  England,  209 
J.  (C.  S.)  on  falis  qnantitits,  SBO 

Spentsn  Panope,  S83 
Jenkioa  (John),  a  centenarian,  320,  533 
Jennoni  family,  55,  152,  949 
Jeremiah  (J.)  on  Britiab  aeythed  chariots,  S40 

Tsnl^,  iU  deriTBtion,  60 

Vea«:  hew,  109 
Jertaoldsr  cv  YsitaoUer  (Lord),  304 
Jceten  in  ship- board,  209 
Jata  Dnneordtd,  36 1 
Jasnit  manuBcripta,  353 
Jewiah  msrriage  ringa,  495 
J.  (H.  F.)  on  French  Wtaleyan  Magazine,  397 
Jingle,  an  Iriih  backney-coacb,  164 
J.(J.)inn.onb.de.r,166 

DoriTation  of  cucumber,  108 

Kaccarine,  ita  meaning,  315 

"The  Brolten  Bridge,"  295 
J.  (J.  C.)  on  tba  Block  Books,  151,  332 

Book  ornamenlaLien,  343 

Dodley  and  Ward  (Lard),  portrait,  335 

Uediatal  seals.  493 

Pictnre  of  a  female  saint,  96 

Ponelain  query,  210 

Scena:  acui^,  414 

Serrict  book,  496 
J.  (L)  on  bell-harp,  208 
Joan,  danghtsr  of  Edward  I^  marriage,  304 
Jobeon  (Mary),  her  marrellona  case,  76 
Johnaon  (Dr.  &muelj,  walcb,  55,  191,  243;  anecdote, 

207 ;  reaidence  at  Staple  Inn,  933 
Johnaon  Cinb  at  St.  John's  Gale,  Clsrkenwell,  87 
Jokes,  some  old  ones,  121 
Jonea  (St  ffm.),  "Aliaic  Ode,"  494 
Jonee  (Wm.  Henry)  on  tbe  fetwc-lock  cocniitan,  433 
Jonaon  (Banj.)  and  tbe  Blackf.iar.'  ibeatn,  183)  the 
conjoint    proprielonhip    in  his    Worka,    280;    the 
Criapinns  of  ■'  The  Poetaaler,"  469 
Jwph  of  Arimsthea,  201 

Joeephns  on  Gen.  Bntler'a  order  against  Udiea,  363 
Joy  (Gdmtind)  on  ecstatica,  31 

SsmiJer  pnetiy,  130 
Jalien  (Hona.),  letter  to  Cardinal  Gtiiltario,  70 
Junins  liandHriting.  431,  453.  469,  523 
J.  (W.  C.)  on  profcasioas,  496 


E.  m  folk  Ion  in  Ssmsz,  427 

K.  (A.  C.)  00  the  modem  uae  of  Ibe  word  Art,  8 

E.  (A.  F.)  on  dedication  of  eharche*,  388 

Lines  on  mathematioi,  389 
Kalendia  =firat  fruits,  495 
K.  (A.  B.)  on  tbe  "  Bridea  of  Enderby,"  322 
Kashmir,  Ita  ancient  bnildinga,  110,266 
Kay  (John)  of  Bury,  portrait.  143, 173 
K.  (C.)  on  the  wife  of  John  Tradeacant,  384 
K.  (0.  S.)  00  dasrendantt  of  Bishop  Bedell,  199 

Iriih  fotCaitares,  109 

Laird,  a  poitloner  of  land,  12   . 

Tayhn'  (Bp.  Jeremy),  descendant*,  290 


Jooi^le 


L  rj  u  £;  J^ 


StmU  (Jobn),  "  U  Be)l«  Dune  utu  Uird,"  334,  399 
Kfibo,  a  Tbabui  pbili>6<>ph(r,  93,  2S6,  331 
Keck  (Bobert),  portrait,  IS 

Enghll«7  (T.)  on  »llfgorj  of  "  The  F«erie  Qaeen,"  I ; 
nal  pnsDDs,  49,  SIT;  tjpognphicil  emn,  383 

Milton's  Poemi,  nolo  miuing,  931 

HiltOD'a  "  Riven,  iriK! '  &r.,  137 

FboDii  Perk  idiI  FaaCuDebleia,  SOT 

PriDter'a  btot,  S09 
K<l1r  (Wm.)  on  MkclWi  picton  Of  tbe  FnsniuH,  SI4 
KelsHll  (Cbulte).  "  Heli  Britumiciu,"  76 
Eempe  (John),  ebp,  oF  CuteiWj,  uma,  931 
EaDCoH  cburcb,  Oifordshire,  moDUDeDt,  140 
Kmnad;  (H.  A.}  on  Cheu  ic  Eogltiid  end  China,  I!T 

Angelo  (Uicbsel)  "Lut  Judgment,"  398 

Consola  defined,  493 

SingnUr  he  paid  by  Iritli  biibo^e,  161 
Kent,  a  new  biatoiy  of,  354 
Kent,  hiitoi?  of  the  Weald  of,  Sli 
Knit  (Chirln)  on  »  Chlteani  ec  Eepagae,"  1 58 
Sent  (Doke  of)  in  Ctuuda,  86 
Keny,  HiatDry  of  the  Kingdoin  of,  354 
Kenaf  (John),  mitbematidan,  3S3 
K.  (G.  B.)  on  eptbtts  of  tbn  ini!Dth9,343 
Killigceir  (Elizabeth),  Vucanntese  Shannon,  358,  464 
Eitligrew  (Sir  Robert)  familj,  454,  550 
KiDdt  (Hermann),  on  Accoictance,  492 

Froita,  nild,  id  Germanj,  S33 

Hunt  (Leigb),  "  The  Mmtha,"  336 

Notdeu  on  herbs  and  leaves,  SOS 

Simmg  (Wm.  Gaorne),  his  d«tb,  406 
King  (Henrj)  on  Orid,  "  Melam.  liii.  354,*  455 
King  (P.  S.)  on  Mont  Cenia  lannel,  10 
King  {Dr.  Wm.),  Judge  of  the  Irish  Cnnrt  of  Adminllf , 

King  (Dr.  Wm.),  Principal  of  SI.  MiTj  Hell,  Oifori,  389 

King's  College,  New  York,  S89 

Klngaloir  (John),  the  Kebmond  reelnae,  513 

KingatMl  (Wm.  4Ib  Eul  oO,  iHognphy,  389 

Kiiuala  (De  Conrcj,  Lonl),  deaamdintB,  75 

Kintfn  aopantiliona,  93 

Kipper,  ila  deriiation,  409, 943 

Kitk  Smlon,  origin  it  Ibe  name,  44,  148 

K.  (J.  A.)  on  pusages  in  Shellef,  455 

Kneeling  in  pmjer,  437,  507 

Knight  of  the  Bolj  and  Etqnire  of  the  Bodj,  their 

daties,  99      ' 
KnigbC  of  Iniahowen  on  Mataulej'a  Whda,  335 
Knight  of  Horar  on  the  Ovter  of  Chirlea  I.,  440 
Knight  (HraO,  celebrated  singer,  8 
Knighthood!   "Ordre  Imririalo  AaiaUqne,"  &c,  78 

and  foreign  orders,  1 00 
KnighiB  of  Malta,  100, 101,  197,  345,  441 
Knowlee  (E.  H.)  on  Boelty,  Uie  German  pool,  244 

Kaccarine,  its  meaning,  336 

Solala,  in  parish  regliiiers,  314 

Walpole'e  nail-bnuh,  526 
Knox  (John),  hooae  at  Edinbnrgh,  360 
Kobold  of  GiSben,  9S 

L 
L.  (A.)  on  nntntored  crilieiim,  387 

Vese:  bese;  teaze,  8S4 
L.  (A.  E.)  on  Bp.  Hdu  Blacklaacb,  34 

Bezant  and  florin,  SOS 

Fomesa  Abbey  and  the  Cbatham  Soeie^,  74 


L.  (A.  E.)  on  Gates,  lale  of  Man,  409 
Kirksanton,  148 
Uani  biihops,  bnrial  plaoe,  I!3,  134 

Plough-bole,  If" 


'  SodeU 


96 


Stanley  (Tbomaa),  biebop  of  Sodor  and  Han,  M 
Winter  saying,  84 
Laird,  or  lord,  13, 179,  843,  310,  SS8 
Lamb    (Cbailes),     "  Complete    CornapandMte     and 

Worka,"  3S 
Lamb  (J.  J.)  <n  Phi- Beta-Kappa  Society,  96 
Lambda  on  topc^rapbical  woika,  496 
LaDcashire  faneral  folk-lore,  63,  831 )  its  old  timbar 

ha1lf,448 
Ludgren  (J.  H-)  dd  Oerman  etymologiotl  dietienaiia^ 

380 
Landor  (W.  S.),  letters  on  Cbatterton'i  mmnimsit,  879 
Lane  (yice-admiial  Lionel),  death,  76 
Llngley   (Rer.   Samnel)    DJ).,   tiandation   of    "Tbi 

Iliad,"  36a 
Lappage  (Thomai)  of  Dantiig.  SS3 
Larch  den  on  cryptography,  377 

Pedigrees  ik  foander's  kin,  339 
"  Last  Han,"  two  worka  ao  entitled,  141 
Latimer  (George  Neiill,  Lord),  his  wile,  96,  198,  919, 

442 
Latin  pronancialion,  13,  S5,  ITS 
Unranoe  (L.),  "  The  Song  of  Solomon,"  515 
Lanrio  (Anne),  aliai  Mrs.  Fergoaaco,  491 
Lausanne  Miasal,  134 
"  Law,  physic,  and  diTinity,"  compared,  99 
L.  (C.  A.)  on  Ombre:  Boston,  305 
L.  (E)  on  lines  on  Ibe  hnmu  ear,  339 
Lean  (Vincfnl  S.)  on  "  ETBrybody's  boiniesa,"  4e,  SSO 
Latbart  (W.  D.),  116.  History  of  St.  Pancra^  36 
Lsavenworth  tamily,  364 
Lte  (F.  G.)  on  Hampden  family,  333 

Prayera  fiir  the  dead,  389 
Lee  (Eev.  Timothy),  mongmeol,  304 
Leeds  (Danby,  Dufca  of),  "  Letters,"  363 
Leea  (Ednln)  on  marine  mse,  45 
Legal  commoa-placa  fenp.  Jamea  L,  9,  83 
Leigbton  (Robert),  petition  on  behalf  of  bin  &imly, 


S47 

Lely  (Sii 

Gibb 


'  Peter),  life  and  works,  !9B;  n 
>,  939 


Lenfsetey  (Mra,),  a  centenarian,  358 
Lenihan  (Manrice)  on  Kdward  Cocker,  407 

Canilan's  portrait  and  sknlls,  80 

Clebome  fairiily,  477 
L'Eatrango  (T.)  on  Ofid,  "Metam.  liii.  354,''3S1 
Laneelli^a  latlioe,  177 
L.  <F.  0.)  on  eiltaordinary  inarriagea,  361 

Heraldic  qnery,  409 
L.  <H.)  on  old  volunteer  corps,  284 
L.  (H.  W.)  oD  Mitt  Farren's  honae,  189 

"Jack"  Barton,  518 

Hart  (Mra.)  aetnss,  1S8 

Linea  by  Sir  John  Bnrgojne,  340,  461 
Lhwyd  (Edw.),  Iiiah  msniiBCrlpta,  4S 
Lichfield  catbedril,  painting  of  the  Omdfiuon,    S 
Uebig  (Baron)  on  I^ncb  scientific  men,  830 
Life,  average  term  of  human,  10 
Ligbtlbat  (Rev.  Joseph  Barber),  canon  of  St.  Panh, 


153 
Light  of  ligbta,"  naa  of  Iba  pbmat, 


t,S9&4«a  r 


Wl 


„«.187 

L.  (J.)  OD  "  Tb«  irind  hai  «  lanpiuf;*,''  463 

L.  (J.  D)  <n  HaDdd'i  -'  UtMib,"  Ud 

L,  (J.  H.)  m  Fnnch  word  ugnifiing  "  to  lUDd,"  437 

L.  (K.)  on  lign  of  "  Tbo  Halo  ia  tbo  Wall,"  1S3,  301 

Lli^  (GoDTgo)  on  DiMi  traps  aod  ipriof  gniu,  409 

SkTcd  bj  ■  fiah,  492 
Lock  (G.  J.  S.)  OD  omtomi  it  manugoi,  &e^  367 
Loduf  ■  OidiDit;,  1 13 
Lat&t  (W.  J  )  OD  Loiio  poem  on  VMthonooki,  36 

Jlomcrial  Tona  of  Ibo  mocthi,  386 

SuSbrd  (Abp.),  funilj,  353 
Logci  (Bogor  do),  <ie«niduU,  590 
Uk  {Haiii7),  Poem.,  401 

London,  iu  Sftj  now   cburebn,  IIS;    Its  oolobntod 
cbaractor*  uid  romsrkoblo  plua,  114i  iU  ohrooo- 
logcr,  133;  cbaaeo  in  tbo  lumH  of  its  straots,  S46  ■ 
London  lad  Uiddlnon  Arcbaological  Sodotir,  381 
London  Corponlion  Llbruj,  SooiDd  Boport,  87 
London  Inttilution,  its  Dov  librvlui,  403 
London  (GMrgo),  |«rd*ntr,  335,  335,  444,  505 
Long   lunilj  of  Bijntoo,  76,  385;  eogniuiicc,  433, 

4B6,  536-538 
Longnitj,  nmukablo  ostg,  38,  56,  97,  99,  130,  139, 

300,  254,  380,  301,  330,  398,  408,  Stl,  533 
LofniM  badlj,  303 
Lotfaiir  on  Do  Lomin*,  303 
Lolbing  Und,  its  dorirntioD,  19 
London  eu-ldom,  nbcjuwr,  304 
Looijh  lloch,  like  dntllinjn  on,  43 
Loni)  XIV.,  bb  nif;,  3G 
Low  (Suniaoo),  jnn^  hii  de^h,  338 
L.  (P.  A.)  on  "  Aptt*  moi  1*  ddofe,"  310 

BoDJngtop,  (B.  P.),  503 

Bookworm  nviga,  347 

Cnoti,  909 

Onninjihuii  fsmilf  iKint,  348 

Diu  (BsrtotoRiio),  313 

DoTti  Cutlt,  445 


"El"! 


"  En."  364 


"  EngMW  Anm,"  t 

Hdr  gmwing  after  desth,  390 

EmUot  (Sir  GrAfttj),  epiliph  od,  504 

La  Caracole,  949 

"  MoDueor,  monnear,"  484 

UoaqnitoM,  909 

PabDcretoD  (Lord),  dismissal  Irom  office,  496 

FaDorsroas  in  London,  439 

Patnaon  bmilj,  364 

Psol  ooiiectian  of  lictnrai,  419 

Pdnt  do  nee,  380 

St.  Vilantioe,  536 

Stafford  (Ab^  Jofan),  350 

"  Slewing  in  tboir  own  groTj,"  372 

■>  Ttw  mor*  1  loam  Iho  Ion  I  think,"  447 

•*  To  ride,"  ahsuK*  of  an;  Fraocb  word  for,  S04 

Vmigonr  pigeons,  419 

"  When  phikntphtn  ban  doM  tbetr  wast,"  44S 
L.  (S.)  on  Sptten  Laird,  190 
L.  (8.  E.)  OD  Hob  in  the  Well,  310 

Hoino  abbaj  register,  358 
LL  (U  C.)  on  the  montil  etgDaJitj  of  the  saxei,  334 
Lake  (Sit  SunooiX  IctWr  book,  143 
Ljdiai^  on  a  wbter  aajlng,  84 


Ljco  (Jubn),  (annder  of  Harrow  Scboc^  304;  dmdii 

rial  liind.  487 
LTtUltoD  (Lord)  on  "  the  bitiv  tod,"  S3 

Campbell  (Lord),  life  of  Lord  Ljndbnnt,  380 

"  Ererrbodr'*  bosinaa,"  453 

Hudel'i "  Hessiab,"  349 

SdMobOMter  abroad  in  SuSbrddiIre,  180,  374 
Ljttoo  (Lord), "  Engene  Aram,"  439,  504 


H.  CO  Cranfnrds  of  Newark,  bironeta,  343 

Mac,  ■  patranrmio  preBi,  230,  333 

McAlpincliD,  189,390,417 

Haearooa,  ita  deHiation.  364 

Uieaalaj  (Lord)  and  Tbomai  Cirljle,  513;   baUadi', 

SS5,  364 
HuGibe  (W.    B.)  on  Charbon  do  Tom,  a  Liege 
legend,? 

Cblgnona,  antiqnitj  of  ladice',  93 

IrUi  legiooiriea  in  Rio  da  Jaoelro,  403 

Politiol  sadrieal  dtamas,  491 

Bdgninjc  beanliei  ia  France,  437 
McCartncj  (Dinial),  his  titnordiDarT  momorT',  4T1 
WC.  (E.)  on  Vaaa:  feeao,  109 

Wraj  (Cipiiciau),  466 
UcC.  (B.)  on  Farodiee,  361 
MacCalloch  (Ugar)  on  the  Stoij  of  Blnabeird,  39 

Uinx  Uihops,  353 

Saiots'  emblems,  305 

Two  centenirians  of  the  ssme  name,  393 
Hacdnff,  Tbuta  ofriTo,  133 
McEwan  (A.  L.)  on  a  rsmirkaUe  clock,  333 
Mwfiowun  (Rev.  John),  author  of  " The  Shaier,'  383 
UcCratl)  on  a  newlr-boni  child  djing,  394 

Poetrj  of  ibe  clonds,  518 

"  The  Unica'  Might,"  Ik.,  446 
M'GrigOr  (A.  B.)  on  Honnt  Calvarj,  62,  315 
H'llDrailh  un  "  As  eold  as  a  maid's  knee,"  43 

NuiaOTf  tale,  43 
Mclliaine  (Juper  S.)  on  Hebrew*  ix.  16,  513 
M'K.  (J.)  OD  Col,  Conl,  495 
HaeUrm  (Urs.   Charles),   acholanlup  in   Edinburgh 

UnlTai«lj,  638 
Uacloan  (Sir  John),  bis  knighthood,  67 
Maclean  (St  John)  on  Atot;,  at  Enrj  (anuliei,  388 

Kllligraw  faDlilf,  SSO 
UacUae  (Daniel),  drawings  in  Fiua's  Migiaine,  918, 


314; 


r,467 


Hacphall  (D.)  on  ood-BghUng  a  centarj  ago,  108 

KiDtfn  supsrstitiona,  93 
Uacra;,  (J.)  on  Liebig^  laalimgn;  to  French  literati, 
330 

Uarr,  QnMO  et  Soots,  533 

Poril7arthockiuds,397 

Proomwiition  of  Arbothnot,  430 

Strarimrg  library,  130 
Haginn  (Dr.  Wm.),  "  Whitebill,"  IS 
Hahomtnedaniam  as  a  branch  of  the  chorch,  195 
HddsDwell,  oar  Lonth,  3S9,  548 
H^da  of  honour,  liiti  of,  343,  441 
Uaintoiea  (Uadama  de),  cormpoodenca  with  Qn«a 

Anne^ISS 
U.  (A.  J.)  on  Ladf  Giimaton's  griTo,  173 
Makmehnr  on  Qnnn  Argenis,  a  poem,  140 

Bookworm,  168  /  -  I 

Camos  the  post,  363  izea  by  t-nCXW  IC 


1  J\  U  JS  JL 


{S 


Ki.uE,Jibi3.i«n. 


PnmuDCialioD  of  Qrttk  ami  Latin,  IS 
Bbombiu  iDd  Scuna,  13S 
"  Stmk  of  (ilTBT  wa,"  3M 
Hale  ftDd  famale  namban  lod  IMIcn,  407 
Han,  Isle  of,  boiial  place  of  its  Uabopa,  I  S3 ;  coBt  of 
the  Gatoa,  409,  434 ;  anoeiaain  of  ita  buhapi,  184, 
SeS;  titll  tf  King  or  Quen  of,  24*,  339;  Tjawald 
Hill,  92 
tba  ti»[a  and  ipriiig  gnoi,  409 
Han'a  aoimal  naiura,  430,  4S4 
HaDba;  (W.  J.)  on  Charts  L'l  dbbm  of  Um  OuUt, 


34S 
HMMbuter,  the  fint  book  prioUd 
110;  "  TIm  Earm  SUn"  inn,  S 
UanchtiUr  (Robert,  3rd  Duka  of),  marriage  364 
UaDalanghtar  and  cold  inn,  36S 
lfana>l  (J.)  on  Elecampane,  343 

Fiodenie  flomrs,  313 
Hani  cats  aod  fowls,  96 
HaibiiT7  Dnu,  a  famed  hone,  535 
Haroh  (Uortimer,  Eail  of),  kia  wbh,  309 
UanUga  cnabnia  in  tl»  HighUnda,  SO,  967;  Id  Abu- 
deanahin,  55;    of  infanf,    105;    not  atlowod  aftai 
tnolre  o'clock,  364 
Uairiagta,  aitraordlnarj,  361 
Uania^  of  Engliili  princosiu,  303,  989,  309,397, 

5!0 
Harriot  (Ber.  Tbomas),  283 
Mar's  roar  uplainod,  1S6 
Uanh  (W.)  on  the  "  Ailoratim  <i  Oa  Lamb,"  ISO 

Crivelli  (Cula).  a;o 

"  Usaiager  dea  Sdencea  el  dee  Arts,"  343 

Bood  icnens  io  Snllblk  «hiirehea,  143,  516 

Sainta'  emblsma,  421 

Samplers,  525 
Uanhall  (Edw.)  m  St.  Angutias,  259 

Dedioalion  itf  ehnrcliee,  4B0 

Fog,  ita  [neanini;.  316 

Gf^inaD  prince,  335 

Passage  in  St.  Ignalios,  39 
Uantto  (John),  aliai  Criapuwi,  469 
Hartia  (Jdin),  M.  P^  bis  armorial  pnn,  Igl 
Uartin  (Thoroaa),  hi*  propbedes,  83 
Uarr,  tba  Blesaad  Virgin,  her  "Draair,"  341;   HS. 
Honrii  635;  painting  representing  her  death,  40 
173,946,  see,  410,  £17 
Har;  Queen  of  Scots,  csptiiitr  in  EDglaad,451,  536: 

Qemuui  tragedy  on  her,  533 
Masej  (P.  E.)  on  Fiidaj  tret,  199 

Uediaral  bams,  924 

St.  Michael's  Moaati,  200 

Shop  ugns  in  Vienna,  306 

Whale's  rib  at  SonentA,  [80 
Mason  (C.)  on  clergj  in  Staps^  V^^i  ^82 
Mason  (Captain  JoIid),  265 
Mason  (ffir  John),  his  descndanti,  365,  420,  495 
Massacre,  barbarous  one  Id  India,  101,  231 
Masson  (GusUvo)  on  the  Gnalcerio  p.nptts,  C9 

Key  to  "  Le  Grand  Cjrua,"  149 
Mathematics,  lines  on,  389 
Haturin  (Bev.  0.  R.}.  noticed,  454,  524 
Maond  =  a  hamper,  429,  506 
Hannder  (Samuel),  noticed,  613 
Ma«we11  (Jame.),  Paisley  poet.  244 
May-day  cnatoms,  430,  02S;  M  0ilbrd,4U 


May  (Qsra^X 

Mayor  (S.  R.  T.)  on  A'Becket'i 

Hair  growing  alter  death,  66 

Heliotypy,  54 

Henley's  Eogliah  "  Valbek,"  35 

Lamb's  CorraspondBiee  and  WoAa,  35 

QuieksBTer  fogntaios,  85 

Shakapeu^'a  death :  sooal  gOMalogT,  S3 
M.  (C.  W.)  on  moaqniloes,  50S 

*■  Thoo^  kit  ts  sight,  to  manwy  dev,"  5« 
M.  (K)  on  a  poem,  "  Let  them  tear  hun,"  &&,  111 
Means,  moiiiUth  at,  514 
Medallic  qooryi  614 

M.  (E.  E.)  on  Trench's  HnlsMn  LecCnrta,  198 
Memory,  an  eittaordlnaiy  iastanca,  471 
Mendsz  (M.),  "  Epistle  to  John  Ellla,"  5 
MoDTil  or  MennU  family  pedigne,  389 
Morcsi  (Andmr),  deed  of  an  award,  19 
Me^  (Thnnaa),  biahop  of  Carlisle,  86. 190 
"  Mess^r  dse  Sdewca  et  dM  ArM^"  343 
Metberingham,  6r«  at,  494 
Meynell  (Pliilip)  on  the  Hennla  or  Mtnaila,  389 
Meziotinia  prinla,  408, 483 
M.  (F.)  on  FraiMiU  whI  Jamas,  453 
W.  (F.  D.)  00  Kalendis,  495 
U.  (F.  W.)  on  Beethono'a  parwitage,  2S7 

DMurina  of  Dmns,  sen.,  923 
M.  (G.  W.)  oil  Balph  Audley  ef  Saodkuh,  11 
M.  (H.)  on  Sir  John  Mason,  495 
M.  (H.  0.)  on  Hertert  of  Mnckmsi,  19 
Michel  (Fnuidnqne)  on  Alaaca  and  LomiDt.  9B1 

Correspondence  cf  Queen  Awe  sod  Majame  da 
Maintenon,  1 88 

NapoleaD'lIL,405 

Hew  Song  from  Paris,  73,  158 

Treason,  a  cry  to  atms,  363 
Midas,  origin  of  the  nwne,  429 
Middle  Templar  on  the  prefix  "  Mae,"  220 
Middloton,  siDgnlv  cnstom  at,  1 19 
Middleton  (A.)  on  derivation  of  Kipper,  409 
Middleton  (A.  B.)  on  Gaiiisboroogh'a  ■  Bloe  B^,'  394 

Prints  of  Stoneheoge.  197 
Miller  (Jesiaii)  on  venes  by  James  Montgomeij,  3S1 
Milon  (Jean  do),  pbywcian,  works,  495 
Milton  (John)  and   bomteopathy,  54;    eptaph  attri- 
buted to  bim.  94;  Poems,  "RiTei«,iii»el"&e.,  137; 
fourteen  lines  omitted  in  "Comoi,"  384;  bis  folk 
lore,  514 ;  Kedgbtlsy's  edition  of  his  "  Poems,'  531 
tlinerra  press,  its  history,  141 
Minialore  painter,  D.  D.  O,  454 
Misealead  nsum  Lansannensem,  124 
M.  (J.),  Edinbursh,cia  Dr.  Arbnthnot.  8 

Coldingbam  priory,  187 

Frederick  of  Pmuja,  ali^  letter,  1 1 7 

Hume  (DaTid),  pedigree,  71 

JamM  Eirt  of  Glencaim,  letter,  90 

Loudon  carldoni,  abeyinca,  904 
M.  (J.),  Keaark,  on  mummers,  121 
M.  (J.  C.)  on  French  word  tignifying  "  to  stand,''  43T 
M,  (J.  F.)  on  Frsser'e  Magaiine  portraits,  31 

Lancashire  funeral  folk  lore,  63 
M.  (J.  H.)  on  Denarius  of  Drusos,  sen.,  95 
Mu  on  tho  siege  of  Breda,  53 
K.  (M.)  on  Galilee's  letter.  13 
Mo.  (J.)  on  goree,  467 


byCnOOgle 


Mom  Vnllnr  dooribed,  3 

Uoiuicar,  mMuiimr,  in  doqUg  ua,  13B,  311,  484 

HoDt  GsdI*  tuDiul  cwnplctcd,  10 

Mont  Vd^riea,  135 

UonUga  funilj,  304 

Montign   (Ladf    Huy  Wortttj).   lalten,    194,    S93i 

bmllad  on  Anhui  Onj,  201,  37S 
MaQtgDmaTj   (Judu)  «Dd  Lord  Bjroa,  S3,  106;  Ui 

aulj  Tena,  3S1 
UonUia,  epitlisU  oa  the,  348,  419,  443j   nuDorial 

veraM,  386,  464,  Sas 
Hontpnuitr  (HuienoiMlta  it),  SOS 
MiMCl,  thl  new,  ind  tb*  Duldii,  44S 
Moor  Full,  Hcrtrordihin.  engnTinut,  SOS,  390 
Moon  (C.  T.  J.)  an  Iba  Man  fiunilj,  S36 

Stoekwatl  tDgi]a,  370 
Moon  (Sir  Qeorge),  Snl„  76,  467  , 

Mmtc  (Tbomu),  the  pott  of  Irclud,  317,  357:  poem, 

"■nuBing,"  13B 
Mosrlud  Ltd  oa  biil  Bctmllr  pnnDt«d,  S3 

Goldsmitbi  iocdilcd  £lrfEj,  9,  B4 

HvTtnbun  cboich,  tpufdi,  32 

PntHidec'i  cradiid,  S3 

ScfaoolmuHr  abmd  Id  Suffia^hin,  lai,  374 

SpooD  intcriptioD,  74 
HomIm  (Cbrab^a*), "  Uum,"  1JS9 
Hon  bmilr,  SS6,  401 
MorKiD  (Prof.  Aagoatu  ds),  hii  dolb,  S74 
Itoigiu  (OoUiiDi)  on  Dr.  JohnMo's  <rUcb,  SS 

Jewiali  minings  ringi,  495 
Iforptafn  (H.)  on  Joddout  ann*,  519 

Begimontal  badfiei,  ic,  549 
Mama  (J.  P.)  od  Aibbantera  of  Fnracu,  131 

NtwiT  boiii  cblld  crjing,  394 

Oldluid  (John),  >  nutiii  poel,  15S 

Song,  a  Norlb  Lanouhin,  4S8 
Monii  (Robtit)  DD  tha  pissing-Ml,  499 
Mortitt  (J.  B.  S.)  and  Inn  eajoymtnt,  493 
Uortiner  (Sii  Edmnod  d*},  p^igne,   13,  393,  318, 

437 
Morton  (Edwud)  on  Sir  Stcpbon  Prodor,  455 
UoTTiU*  (Count  da),  letter  to  Card.  GualMrio,  69 
Morwell  (Sir  mebard),  noticed,  3SS 
HoBle;  (Sir  Onrald),  but.,  bii  dath,  487 
Uowlj  family  of  Maidiovall,  389,  548 
Ma»)uiI0Ps  in  Eoglind.  358,  SS3,  416,  505 
Motbcr  Djunnable,  or  Bad  Cap,  g33 
Motbar  Bed  Cap,  a  tiga,  233 
Motto;  ''  Candor  iUnns,"  534 
Uonniiig,  emit,  357^  or  blackedgad  nper,  S09,  SOT, 

378,  443 
Hanntabaiik  of  tba  last  ccDtsry,  303 
U.  (P.)  ou  Isaac  Diaiatii,  300 

U<uou  (Sir  John),  365 
M.  (B.)  OD  "whatbar  or  no,"  3S6 
U.  (T.)  DO  Sir  Ptter  Lalj's  lifa  and  woiki,  S58 

TamijaosiaiM.  431 
M.  (T.  A.)  on  Sarigny'a  "  Tmitiaa  on  OMigUiooi,*  13 
Hnm,  a  stroog  ion  of  beer,  4S9 
HDmnian,  Chriitmaa,  S3,  S4S 
Knmiti;  busting,  491 


T<r*alla,78 
Uoakan  (Prince  pDanklar},  77,  267 
M.  (W.  T.)  on  Bnnii'a"Aiild  lang  ijn*,"  386 

Grecian  bend,  123 

"  Hio  liber  eat  m  qno,"  Ito.,  109 

JobnaoD  (Dr.  Samnal),  anecdote,  307 

Hamor;  of  amalli,  481 

Poat  imphaciea,  233 

Seottiib  dead,  19 

Smraj  churcliea  detlrojad,  476 

Wonar'a  ait  poaar,  149 
U7(n>i  on  Kaoa;  acvn^  359,  415 
U.  (V.  S.)  on  Biabop  Bedall'a  daacanduti,  104 

Car;  (Biabop  Mordacil),  SH 

Creata  legally  aaanmad,  357 

Fuller  (Bp.  Wm.),  panntiga,  357 

Habcu  Corpna  act,  161 

Hymn:  ■'  Gnida  rm,  0  tbon  giaat  JcboTab,"  38 

Naale  not  Olfeila,  &c,  35 

O'Mallar  (Sir  Samoel),  bart.  9 

Marrlaga  of  infrmti,  105 

SnraU  (Sir  TboH'Ba),  305 

Swifl  (Godwin),  104 
Mjittry  plaj  of  the  Reeniraelion  in  Frmeb,  184 


Tutional  WDg,  I9S 

"Ariiel  Brilannii'e  Km,  arUa!"  75 

Smoking  illt^,  198 
N.  (A.)  on  altar  ilab  in  Norwich  catbednl,  48S 
Naeearine,  ita  meaning,  336,  315 
Nakajntai,  philoHipUoal,  359,  375 
Hamaa,  aignificant,  3D;  cJtangeii  of  in  Ireland,  41 ;  pn- 

ritan  changes  of,  430,  526 
Napoleon  HL.  lilsraij  contribution,  405 
Naah  (P.  W.  H.)  on  medaliic  qnery,  514 
National  Gallerj,  Annual  Report,  181 
NatiTity,  faaat  of  Ibe,  early  notico,  143,  32.^ 
Naylor  (Cbarlea)  on  a  hubaroua  massacre,  101 

Bestbaren  (L.  Ton),  353 
K.  (B.)  on  Poijtan  cbangei  of  naniee,  536 

■'  Whether  ot  no,"  378 
N.  (B.  £.)  on  Lbwyd'a  Iri>b  inaiiDacripta,  43 
Nesle,  not  O'Neale  familj,  35 
Segro  pro»etb>,  43 
Null  (E.  D.)  on  Niobotaa  Forar  and  George  Baggla, 

490 
NeiU'a  "  Hiatotj  rf  Virginia  Company,"  enatiun,  401 
Malaon  (Horatio,  Lord),  opjnim  ot  German  gananll,  74 
Satia  on  "  a  beast  witliin  nt."  430 
Naphiile  OD  the  Slue  Laws  of  ConnaclicDt,  64 

Fhi-Bata-K>ppa  Sucielv  of  Baaton,  320 

Toadaloae  ring,  484 
Nmbitt  (John).  M.  P.,  366,  391 
Nawfomidland,  its  cod  Biherj.  429,  486 
"  New  Monthly  Uigaiine,"  ila  edilora,  475 
Kewecme  (W.)  on  Sir  John  Harman  Whitfield,  365 
Kewepaper,  as  old  Dutch,  339;  early  SootCiBti,  390 
Newton  (Ber.  John),  lines  on  a  sampler,  273 
Svir  Zealand  medal,  197 
N.  (1-  A.)  on  SapdowD  GaUk,  325 


d  by  Google 


Joom  (B«n).  propnaUnbip  of  Ui  Workt,  13(1 
KicliolMa  (RcDton),  "  Biroo,'  IS,  SS6,  337 
NifChtin^  (Ladj  EliitbMb),  atorj  of  her  dwib,  ST7, 

330,  3S3,  «0a 
ITilc,  iti  OTBrflowinfri,  ISS,  3U,  4S1 
KimTod  m  BkUjcolitan,  &f.,  153 

FiUtiuiieri  (Bobert)  or  Hurin,  333 

Hnriy,  Duk*  of  Orleuu,  133 

HartMBl  (John),  «94 

Loga  (RoKtr  da),  SSO 

Sear»  "  Hulorr  of  the  Virgioi.  Comp«uij,"  UO 
If.  (J.  G.)  00  Hum  Ukinj;  Tenpanca  cfti  muddDd,  259 

UboDtdiwik  of  tba  lut  caatarr,  303 

Wud,  u  >  panoDil  luunv,  396 
H~a.  on  th«  pUmt  Lingua  uucria,  394 

SmoklDg  ill«gil,  393 
MobU  (T.  C.)  oD  B«i  Jdukki,  133 
NoddT,  u  Irith  vchida,  33,  163,  3ST 
Nos]  (TbMdMii),  wife  of  Vueonnt  lA^imbltdm,  1 34 
NoDo  bmui,  340 

NgrfoUk  (Eliubctb,  Dncliin  oF),  h(c  will,  384 
Norg>te(F.)  Oa  "Tbit  greatuc  clerki  not  lbs  wiiat 

■nan,"  S46 
Kornun  (Edward)  oa  coincidcnoa  of  Ihoncbt,  198 
Noniua  (G.  J.)  on  Birker'a  prnionmu,  379 
Nonnui  (Lotiin  Jolii)  on  Bitmtrclc  anlidpaUd,  379 
Noiwmeu  in  Cnmbn-lind  «nd  WBtmoraluid,  SGO 
Nonhunpton,  tba  Rode  of  Ih>  Wall,  134 
HorllimptonBhin  feuti,  475 
Northnnibariuid  (Eirla  oQ  that  wivaa,  S7 
NorthDmberlaDd  (Robert  da  ComTD,  Eul  of).  IS 
Norwich  cUbadnl,  nmarkiible  ilMr-ilib,  360, 399,  435 
Nntradamm  (Ifidiul),  prophcctM  on  tha  foil  of  Piii*, 

MS 
"  Koln  and  Qaariaa,"  Spaoiib,  SOS 
Non^  (Saiaidiiii  da  la)  of  Hont  Val^rin,  135 
Koni,  a  iliDg  word,  89 
NDTdlita  of  tba  sigbtaentb  eentnry,  346 
S<ijm  (T.  H.),  Jan.,  oa  Sic  Wnt  Stuibapo'ii  portrait, 
159 


Nanai7  rbjma,  "  Tbere  waa  a  liCtla  IB 

Nnnarr  tsla,  43 

M.  (W.)on>ta.rd,  oribam,199 

N.  (W.  L.)  aa  "  Antljologia  Bornlis,'  J 


Oiklar  (J-  H.  J.)  CO  ■  ramarkabla  clock,  350 

DiMprit,  394 

Pboniz  throna,  368  ■ 

Seanai  8caii«,334 

ThoDiwa  (Jamea),  a  Droid,  3S5 
Oathi,  jddioial,  309,  394,  440,  505 
Oboliu,ae(iil,  143 
aC.  (W.)  oa  Hn.  Dawning,  389 
O'Cuolan  (Torlotigb),  portniU  iDd  sknlla,  80 
O'Couiell  (Daniel),  hit  Engliib  dcwoit,  143, 349, 444, 


OhT«r  lb«  S|>r,  66 

(nuilof  (Sir  Samoal),  hart.,  ofeo.  Uajo,  9 

Ombre,  a  guna,  99,  l«7,  903,  398 

Omaga  oo  atom  allan  in  Eagliib  chudHa,  I6S 

0-<L  (U.)  oa  the  nrcD  wooden  of  Iha  world,  S67 

Oom  (Ura.),  piamat,  aiD,  379 

Oomored,  ot  timand,  ita  mfaoing,  475,  550 

O'Raffert;  (Padd;),  Hogs'aaoog,  473 

Ord  (Chief  Baron),  portnit,  389 

Orletoo  (Adam  da),  53,  151 

Orral,  the  jvopbecj  of,  S3 

Ontis  on  aumiinulio  qaerj,  143 

Olid  "  UaUm!  xiii.  354,"  459,  921 

*  Owl!  that  loTeat  tba  hading  akj,"  a  peon,  190,  893 

Ox,  a  gi^notie,  159 

Oifocd,  tba  Henldt'  VUutioa,  355;  Mtj-4*j  mteo. 


P.  m  Sir  Robert  Bc^la,  383 

Uarriiga  of  priocttatB,  309 

Old  familice  witboot  coat  amKor,  344 
P.  (Arafaa).0D  new  mooa  and  Iba  maids,  445 

Sacgar,  ita  derieatica,  453 
P.*  OD  ChignODi,  481 
a,  481 
'Daclina  and  Fall,"  ad.  1819,  481 

dBDisiB  nnpnbliahtd  latter,  453 

KnJghtBofCharleal..  481 

Stfubnrgh  library,  473 

Samamee  of  officials,  483 

Woreeetar  arms,  463 


■■  (A.)  « 


r,  493 


Pagoj  (Harcellin)  on  "Chttsani  en  Eapagnc,"  371 

Punting,  a  mnnl  one  in  Stantoo  chnnli,  40,  173, 
345,368,410,497,  517 

Palmer  familj'  of  Bath,  76,  389 

Palmentoo  (Heniy,  Snd  Viacoant),  lioea  on  hi*  mar- 
riage, 340 

Pabooilaii  (Haorj  John,  3rd  Vueomit),  dismiaia]  fram 
office,  496;  Tiaita  to  Faria,  134 

PampUat,  ita  etjmologj,  439 

Panoramaa.  Barker  nod  Barfbrd'a,  379 

P.  (A.  0.  V.)  OD  Rokaibjr  the  apn,  344 
St.  Woirran,  163 
Saidan'a  balbda,  496 

Paper,  mooming,  or  blukadged,  309, 307 

Papwoilh'a  "  Oidiaarjr  of  Briliab  Aimociala,"  47 

Pardon  tn  1660,  a  fngment,  486 

Parallel  puaage^  438 

Paiii  catacomls,  33;  pigeon  poet,  18S,  391,  419;  ill 
libiariaa  and  mnacDma,  331;  pfopheciei  oo  iU  Ul, 
M2 

Park  (HoDgo)  and  the  moee,  39S,  440 

Parkar  (Bobart  and  Ttaomae),  388,  475 

Farkee  (Joee^),  Uemoira  and  Cormpcodoiee,  '4 

Faroehial  regiaten,  their  hialorj,  9  9 

Parodiaa,  woili  on,  15, 105,  177,  3G1,  396,  491 

Paiilef  piert,  or  break-atone,  399 

PeatgniJif,  work*  on,  316 

Paalej,  or  Paslewe  familj,  310,  354,  533 

Paaiion  ^71,475,  487 


db,  Google 


Falcbin,  ita  dtriTitioD,  2) 
Fatamit;,  24 
htenoo  (A.)  on  i 

Old  Scotch  H 

Shnd,  or>h*ni,'lds 
Pntmon  (Eobert),  "  OU  Mortriitj,"  fiunilj,  60,  26* 
PitMraoQ  (W.  H.)  on  J.  Citid,  k  ceDt«Mriui,  301 
Fad  V.  ud  the  Vencduig.  S3  6 
Psnlit  fBioil J  of  Ampoit,  20 
Fmjne  (J.)  on  •'  E»"  ud  "  En,"  59,  HT 

BoiliD,  its  protmnciitiDD,  519 

TjndHle'B  Nbh  TeeUmsat,  129 
P.  (C.  R.)  m  Bwon'i  Qac«n  CoDnBckhip,  168 

HiliHon'i  soTBOt,  Ihe  ng«  crow,  1 12 

Phonii  throm,  96S 

TreTwii'  "  Grel*  HwbtU,"  36S 

WbM  Gtltki  arc,  491 
P.  (D.)  on  the  uma  of  B«uicbunp  fcoiily,  342 

Ansa  of  ButTranto  Cellini,  266 

Bnn  in  Boabm  chorcb,  486 

Fendleai  BMUCbunp,  31S,  SOS 

Fart  in  tbs  Sktdj  anna,  lot 

Gennu  impariil  flag,  323,  S03 

Jenkim  (John),  a  centeurian,  533 

Orders  of  knighthood,  100 

Pariah  i^iattra,  197 

Speoter'e  "Fsorie  Qdmh,"  176 
Peai'  irea,  God   Almigh^'s,  18 
Paarson  funiijr  of  Kippennjaa,  36 
Peck  (BcT.  Samoel),  282 
Peel  (Sir  Bobert),  ula  of  his  [dctons,  218,  336,  4l] 

the  "  Chapean  da  Failla,"  302 
Palagioa  on  ague  cfainns,  443 

Artificial  fl J. Ashing,  161 

China  mania,  442 

Cook  (Captain),  ihniahes,  187 

Hibbita,  911 

Uenorj  of  imella,  I78 
■  Newly-bom  child  crjing,  311 
Pennytaraan,  ot  Pennylar™!,  60,  819 
Farcha  (Counta  of),  tlmr  anna,  111,231 
Parc7  Anecdotal,  alliuioiis  in,  197 
PeriodioUa  of  Great  Britain,  536 
Paraiau  mannacript  of  great  beautj,  87 
P.  (£.)  on  eleTan  shiiUng  pieces  of  Charlea  I.,  5S 
Pearson  (A.  Herford)  on  Blno  Bodca,  122 
Pearson  (j.)  on  btani'  eara,  350 

Fog,  ita  meaning,  216 

Marina  rose,  ISO 

Oeniered,  or  tJmered,  550 

Pooia,  or  Tnonthi  of  streams,  113 

Roaeroarj  need  at  fnnsrals,  4G4 

"  Sktrring  npon  a  glava  glattan,"  ISl 
Peacock  (Edward)  on  the  ATery  family,  433 

British  acjthed  chariots,  332 

Sin  at  Metheiingham,  494 

Gsinabargh  legend,  251,  457 

Ganthe  (Hsueae)  and  T.  Lappige,  283 

Gnala  and  moaqniUwa,  505 

Haiined  stddiere,  495 

Foam,  "  Whinny  Moor,"  63 

Pnritan  changes  of  names,  430 

St.  Wolfrao,  335,  SOS 

SudlofI  le^isler,  496 

Sbeenrert,  it«  atynology,  151 


0n 


Peacock  (Edward)  on  stilts  =  crulchaa,  314 
Pangelty  (Wm.)  on  Qoeen  Aigenii,  245 

Chiidran's  games,  271 

Great  Bear  and  aninmer  ninfail,  300 

Pickalliarriiig,  421 

Story  aacribed  to  Thaodore  Hook,  73 
Ferry  (J.)  on  the  anthorship  of  "  Bertrand,"  9S 

Bear  tarem  in  Dmry  Lana,  363 

Bookworm,  367 

Ken9(Jobn),  malhenistieian,  333 

Farodias,  261 
Petlat  (Charles)  on  tha  hookwDim,  461 
P.  (F.  C.)  on  an  old  Oxford  efiptaa,  331,  449 

Samplais,  46S 
P.  (H.)  on  the  Long  family  of  Baynton,  76 
Phelpa  (E.  S,),  "  Tha  Galea  Ajar,"  452 
Plti-Beta- Kappa  Society  of  Bcelw,  96,  S30 
Philip  NoMon,  iu  ancient  ion.  334 
Phillifa  (Sir  Tbemaa)  on  the  Uragon,  174 
Pbonli  Park  in  IreUnd  acd  Fontain^laaa,  20T 
PhcHiii  throne,  a  legMid,  163,  368,  401,  164 
Photography:  the  war  and  "  The  Times,"  94 
Pianoforte,  aarly  mnice,  143 
Rchler  (Mr.),  gem  engrarer,  333,  397 
Fickel-herring,  a  droll  or  Metry  Andrea-,  355,  i2 1 
Pickering  (B.  M.)  on  book  omsmtntation,  147 
Pickfgrd  (John)  on  Lady  Fenwick'i  dirinteiment,  33 

"  It's  a  far  eiy  to  Loch  Awe,"  1 49 

Eempa  (John),  abp.  of  Canterbury,  331 

Soripwt,  or  Chriatmas  piece,  351 

"  She  look  ttia  cnp,"  Ice,,  63 
^dou   (J.  A.)  on  Liud  Broagbam'i  Aatobiognphy, 
277 

Bine  laws  of  ConnecticDl,  16,  191 

Chepst<7w  ^  Estrighoial,  377 

CBn-stooe,  Tenby,  &c.,  61 

Freocb  word  aigDifying  "  to  stand,''  4-SS 
Pigeon  p«t  to  Paris,  185,  391,  419 
Pigsona,  carrier  or  tiTagenr,  294;  drirea  from  Franca 


by  ll 


T,  341 


Piggot  (John),  jon.,  on  A'Backett'a 

BBnow  eipbined,  537 

Cod  fishery  of  Xewfonndland,  486 

Cornish  spoken  in  Daronihire,  126 

Crifolli  (Carlo),  life  and  works,  161 

Ldj'i  monnment  by  Gibbona,  535. 

Hesqaitoee  in  England,  358 

Omim,  a  game,  167 

Phraae,  "In  the  itran,'  482 

Bailway  match,  SSO 

"  Tlie  Dnam  of  Holy  Mary,'  341 
Finkertoo  (Wm.)  on  Iiiih  car  and  noddy,  163 

Porcelain  memorial  of  Cbarlaa  II.,  37 
Pipe  Boll,  S  St^tn,  236 
Pitt  (Mrs.  Miiy),  a  centenarian,  159 
I^tta  (Ur.),  ballad  printv,  1ST 


482 

Placard  or  stomacher,  389,  445 
Plioe  (J.)  on  Dnr  or  Donr,  33 
PlBDily,  ita  meaning,  42,  173 
Plica  Pi.lindca,  a  disease,  475,  S39 
PlaB-plim,  origin  of  the  phnue,  364 
Plane  li-bola,  ita  meaninf,  f> 


byGooi^le 


■w 


I  Indn  Blll>l>l«nnil 


Plragb-wilclxn,  CbriMmu,  5! 

Plownun'i  (Pim),  "  Credo,"  85 

Plmnptn  (Bn.  Dr.),  nle  of  bi*  libruj,  1S3 

Plonknt  (Lord)  on  Tima  ud  tbg  hour.gUu,  93,  269 

Pn.  (J.  A.)  m  htvth  Ul  bdladi,  112 

Pa.  2  (J.  A.)  00  umpltn'  poaij,  I SS 
Pmid  in  us.  "  How  Artwr,"  989 

PointdaTia,  S55,  380 
PolUrd  (W.)  on  Udj  Griiiulaa'a  gwie,  273 
Pollock  (W.  F.)  00  bluk-cdged  paper.  308 
PoDHobT  (H.  F.)  OD  tlie  Cbtnon,  467 

Drum,  u  emiiDg  partj,  453 
Poole  (C.  R.)  on  A'Becketl'i  niarJenn,  172 
Poota,  or  moatbi  ofatreama,  IS,  113 
Pope  (Alex.),  Worki  b]>  Elrin,  86,  299,  506 
Pop*  (Hiaa),  actnaa,  2 

Pi^  of  BoDte,  Tato  at  thetr  election,  1 63,  269 
Poppa  Bai,  or  Quean  of  Misrule,  190 
PotcalaiD  quetj,  210i  maitDfiGtorj  at  Chorcb  Gtralrr, 

79  j  memor^  of  Charln  II,  37 
Ponii[Hiw,  Ihe  fntfal,  4S3 
PortUod  (Blchaiil  Weatno,  lit  Earl  of),  325 
Porlo  Fioa,  burial-place  of  aa  Engliib  queen,  208, 

375 
Fortr^t  FUDIiag  in  irateT'Ooloum,  324  ' 

Fotlen  of  the  Dorlbcra  eounliea,  96 
Powell  (Siz  Jobo),  469,  507 
Fo<r«r  (C.  W.)  OD  tba  ilnit  pie  and  na 
Foaer  (D.)  no  Jeaiiit  maniiKripIa,  393 
Power  (E.  E)  oa  Ur.  Wjodbun  and  Ibe  reporUra,  83 
P.  (P.)  00  a  black  coontrj  IrgaDd,  24S 

BoA  oraanWDUtioD,  III 

Bookworm,  16S 

Cacnmberand  gfaeckin,  19 

BnmgluuD  (Lwd)   and   the   Nightingale   mona 
nietit,378 

Kneeling  in  praj".  S07 

Knight  and  eaqi 


mtj,  236 


117 


Nile,  ila  oveiflowi 
Parodiea,  work  on,  109 
Pbooix  Ihrooe,  401 

Itc^al  Eiohaage  lidl,  1 1 0 

Stanley  (Tbottua),  biebap  of  Sodor  and  Mao,  301 
Prajara  for  the  dead  in  ohorcfajaidi  doring  1700.1800, 

389 
P.  (B.  B.)  <m  Tbonua  Baakarrille,  486 

'•  Ei  lace  hicalltun,"  913 
P.  (B.  C.  A.)  OD  Comiab  apoheo  in  Dennahin,  1 1 


FiiDt-daalara'  catalogoea,  143 

Prior  (B.  C.  A.)  on  nop,  a  billiard  ball,  SIS 

Proctor  (Sir  Stephen)  of  Fonntaiaa  Hall,  455 

Prodigal  Son,  a  cotli^  pnot,  56.  150 

FrofeiaioD  e=  bnainesi,  dcGoed,  496 

Pioj^DT,  ita  maaoing,  993 

ProphecSaa,  bj  Tbomaa  Uartin,  33  {  "  Fnnch."  33 ;  poet, 
43,  161,333;  of  Orval,  63;  in  a  r^taler  of  the  ail- 
toanib  oentorj,  233;  Uar;  Bant'a,  5S9|  Koatra- 
damoa  and  otbcn,  643 

Proaodj,  366.     See  vaiiong  Rta^ngt 


FioTMb*  ftnd  TltnUM  :- 


AhemI  aa  Dick  Snuth  aaid  when  be  swallowtd  the 

diilieloot,9 
All  friaods  loand  tbe  vrekio,  9 
Aa  oold  u  ■  maid'a  knee,  43,  114 
Baga,  or  Bap  I,  44 
BeuiiT  but  akin  deep,  177 
Beaatf  aWp.  113,  419 
Bitter  end,  83,  85 

Bora  oa  tbe  lop  of  Radlej  wiihoat  a  ahirt,  231 
ChUeanz  en  Eapa^oe,  198.  271 
Cbekt  chicken,  more  batcUing,  9 
Comeatogilef,  429,  SS6 
Dog-a  noae  cold,  43,  114 
£t  faoara  scribenda,  209,  893 
Eierybod]''*  bnainess  ia  nobodj'a  bniuueai,  453, 

590 


547 

Oentkaieii  of  tie  p«T«nent,  34 1 

God'a  baby,  339 

Good  ^r,  and  Dear  Sir,  335 

Ha  amilea  like  ■  basket  of  chip),  9 

Hiberaia  ipui  Hibemiomi,  472 

Hii  own  opinion  waa  hia  law,  105 

Horae  djing  of  tbe  laehioni,  321 

It'a  a  far  cr;  to  Lochawe,  42,  149 

It'a  all  MM  aide,  like  Bridgnorth  election,  9 

Noble  aa  the  race  of  Shenkin  and  line  of  Hjir>7 

Todor,9 
One  awallow  doea  not  make  a  anmrner,  39S 
Once  and  again,  333 
Faint  coata  nothing,  406 
Fecca  fnrtlter,  77 

Pan  of  an  aDgel'a  wing,  333.  313,  444 
Pigi  niaj  flj,  bat  tliey  at*  not  F»ry  likelj  birds,  41 
Point  do  Tioe,  259,445 
Shropahin  aajinga,  9, 131 
Stawiag  in  their  own  %<wj,  1B7,  273,  379,  523 
Straw:  In  the  Mraw,  407,  483 
Streak  of  ailTcr  aea,  390,  445,  486 
Sanunum  jaa,  inmnn  injnria,  400 
Tba  Deril  beata  hia  wife,  35,  400 
The  evidanca  of  lonr  enemj  in  joar  favour,  bc-, 

96,419 
Tbe  greateat  clarka  iiot  the  vieeat  men,  409,  S46 
The  aoQ  nerer  aeti  on  the  British  domlnioaF,  S 10, 

993,  398,  483, 
Thunderer,  456,  934 
Tnmccat  never  be  ricli,  406 
Troth  lie*  at  the  bottom  of  tbe  well,  IDS,  19S   . 

313 
Uaefal  aa  a  ahin  of  beef,  &c.,  9 
■'  Well  nigh  "  for  ■'almoit,"  232 
Whether  or  no,  143,  386,  378.  485 
Winnot  there  be  gkrikea  i'  Obcron,  187 
Winter  aajinga,  18,  84 
Frowett  (C.  G.)  on  Accidenta'  Compenaatioa  Bill,  466 
Plnnkat(Loid),  196 
"  Wbethar  or  nn"  386  , 

P.  (S.)  on  the  cborron,  408   .         k   C  ndtlQlC 


PamiB,  OT  dancing -Bbots,  3B!) 
"  Potich,'  B  pni[^t,  S3 
PmiGt-UdJa  of  G«rgii  III.,  336 
PanniDg  ruid  jMing  on  nimts,  106.  313 
Paritui  chuigM  of  nunn,  130,  S36 
P.  (W.)  DO  UMMjiDOiu  vorki,  342,  408 

BtlUd,  "  Tbc  baroD  Kiwd  babiod  &  trtt,"  307 

Bibl<illutnticHii,ll 

Cnttr  (John),  his  drmningt,  3S 

ObugH  of  ii>n)u  in  IrtUnd,  4 1 

GcMk  ud  Romui  IJtentarr,  4TS 

Gkm  tUlag,  439 

Htliogibnlns  ud  coWebi,  933       ' 

Hogu,  haating  ind  drioking,  430 

"Icthoitniw.'iO: 

LoDdoo  (G«org«),  girdcDsr,  33S 

Uom,  >  irning  beer,  4S9 

Memcriil  tableti  *t  St.  Boact'i  ehorcb,  473 

StwDif  Bsu,  tbe  miD-oiter,  IBO 

Sacigt,410 

"  Thoufth  loit  to  aighl,  to  munorr  dear,"  jG 

Whita  Town-  of  London,  483 
P.  CW.  H.)  on  HcDlc/i  Englub  "  Vilhek,"  344 

Si*«  *nd  diB  WUtaboji,  269 

Witchn  io  IraUnd,  137 
Pfcrort  (Jimn)  od  Dr.  Johnaon's  nUnh,  343 
Pjumidi  ukd  the  Nik,  186 


Q.  (Q.)  «  BritMh  i^tlwd  durioti,  93 
Qdu*  (DuM),  wUcbmikar,  403 
"  Qotan  Argrala,"  >  poem,  140,  143 
QoidullTR  fannuini,  SS 
Quia  (Ljud)  od  Uaj-dij  castoma,  430 

QaoUtlmu  :— 

A  gWinc  ilia  bending  o'sr  tbe  (lotm,  96 

A  [Brtr  la  ■  parlosr,  36 

Aliqnudo  dormilat  bonoa  HoDMrni,  34 

For  anddeo  jojra,  lika  gcMt,  confooiid  at  fint,  436 

God  mada  niM  and  nun  nuda  DNoaj,  41,  IfiS, 

131 
Hio  llbar  «at  in  quo,  &t.,  109 
In  tha  Bena  Ught  thtf  baala  npoa  tha  thnoa,  124 
](  did  not  koinr,  poor  fool,  369,  446 
IM  tbmn  tMir  kim,  &e^  1 II 
No  F«nt-Dp  Ithaca  coolneli  jov  paw«n,  1S4 
Mor  thon  ait  not  m;  flnt  lara,  4S9 
Ibu  boa  Tooui  dabM,  an  dotnna  longa?  96, 149 


SapiMti  Mt  filiDa  qui  at 
Still  gGdM  tbe  gaatia  a 


till  gGdM  tbe  gaatia  atnamlat  «B,  393 
Talk  not  to  DM  of  hegltnda  and  latitoda,  3CS 
T1ia>otioai<ftliojiutaiiialliwaat,&c..  163 


Wheat  jaitirdiji  look  backward*  with  a  amile,  1 34 
Wttj  ai  Fliminius  Flaccns,  344,  441 
WinUr'e  cold  bluti  are  gona,  495 


R  (A.)  on  Prioca  Paecbler  Mnskin,  266 

Foat  propbecisg,  191 

Seren  wondua  of  Wain,  143 

Shrofabire  aajinfta.  131 
Badediffe  (Koell)  on  Joan  d'Aro,  409 

Gallmatiaa,  174 

Hantal  eqiulitj  oC  Ibe  aaua,  97 

Portrait  of  Lord  Spjule,  410 

St.  Thomaa  of  Villanova,  431 

StalU(Jacqius),  77 
lUlwaj  match  in  1841,  380 
BaWgh  (Sir  Waller),  marginalia  in  hit  "Hiitorie  ot 

the  World,' 36 
Ranalagh  (Coiea,  Banot  of),  134,  301 
Rant  (Uirj),  bar  prophecf ,  939 
Bamaga  <C.  T.)  on  Fimocia,  Earl  of  BothweU,  62 

Bnnu'a  latica  and  lattan,  449 

lalta  of  tbe  Sirani,  337 

Lamia  (Anna),  aliat  Hn 

Uou  Vnllar,  3 

Pataiiona  of  Baltimore  and  "  Old  HortalilT,*  3 1 8 

Bnina  of  Terlna  and  Naceria,  539 

Kgnat  foDod  at  Bain,  300 

"  Varitaa  in  pnte^"  108 
Ratdifiii  (Thomaa)  on  tha  Attle  taltnt,  363 

Balloona  and  aiega  of  Paria,  307,  S70 

EpiUph  on  Ura.  Sosannah  Bird,  ISO 

Lancaabira  witehta,  311 

TwentjFoinlaofFiatj,  510 
RayDST  (Wm.)  on  an  andeot  cottom,  438 
K.  (C.)  M  Albanar  and  AtnondaTiUe,  378 

Cnata,443 
B.  (C.  J.)  an  Hampden  familr,  379 

Ord  (Chief  Baron),  portrait,  389 

Stenbold  and  Hopkina,  334 
Baadinga,  nriooa,  in  poata,  33,  197,  299 
Btadjhoof  or  Badiongb  Eunilr,  361 
Bealm,  ita  dJArant  fcnnt,  370,  919 
BabdlioDrf  1749,  397 
Bad  Book,  a  maBuciipt,  133,  199 
BadariA,  ok  Sniraf,  39 
BabnBlUin  1831,113 
Ba^mnt,  tba  ^t^'aeoeDd,  46 
B^tmantal  liad|Ba,  mottosa,  &c,  949 


Digitized  by  Cji OOQ  I C 


BJchird  dh  meduBT«I  bu-na,  95 

Bidiird  111,,  latobioeriplij  of  hia  natiinl  laD.ISO,  271 

Bkburd  of  CirencMter,  liiilonin,  332 

Riddlen,  iDcUnt,  SI4,  £46 

Sidt.  lh«  kbceoci  of  «dj  French  wori,  "  to  ri.l.','  431, 

436,504 
Btiabantt  (Dr.  £.  P.)  on  ths  Ainat  Iijmn,  41 

Cknliad  (Bartnn,  Dodnu  oQ.  66 

Godolphin  (Sjdnej).  507 

H*jm'i "  Bittorr  of  Uniie,'  SS 

Old  KOKS  and  billtdi,  506 

"Tbo  Sbrnbs  of  Phmou,"  549 
BiDg,  ■  MdibKM,  3S4,  399,  4B« 
Eioi*,  Jowiih  muriigo,  435 
Bio  de  Jinein),  its  Irish  1cf;ionariei,  403,  4S« 
E.  (J.)  on  "  Et  finn  Kribonda,"  4c,  SflS 
B.  (J,  Ck.)  on  Falla  of  Fojtn  ind  GUmmi,  62 

Fog.itBineimng,  816 

Gale).  lale  of  Man,  464 

"Goda  willio-wanoht,"  S02 

PiTOiiaciitioa  of  Arbotfanot  and  Botbno,  419 

SegdoimB,  Saggidim,  &o ,  499 
B.  (J.  B.)  on  Aahbanwn  of  FimMf,  SiT 
B.  <E.)  on  the  ballad  ••IBaiaij,'  3S3 
B.  (I..)  oa  tk  daatrinp  rf  Cdtkiain,  535 

Snu&Iiig  illrgd,  S6S 
R.  (L.  C.)  on  "Ooorgt  GaaterbniTV  Will,"  237 

Chnitbaa  wiUrb  Bocaan  eamfs,  333 

Jimlnaii  (Alouiidor),  M.A.,  143 

Pot  jnphedea,  41 

Stmplei  poMj,  331 
Bobartt  (Aikow)  on  John  Djv,  448 
Bobinson  (C.  J.)  on  Vico-admlnl  Lionel  Ltoo,  76 

Manor  hoiuaa  of  HnoArdahln^  337 
BtMnaoo  (S.)  on  liim  on  Gnido'*  "  Aaron,"  13 
BocbMtu  OaaUs  kau,  134;  hatpHal,  21 
Bocbolcr  (John  WUmot,  Earl  of},  3;  partnit  of  liU 

dinghlar  Anna,  259 
Bocbaatar  (Uwnnoa  Sfda,  EaH  of),  2 
Bode  of  tlie  WaU,  Nortbamptoo,  134 
Boear  (J.  C.)  on  Ajns,  v>d  Frara  itmaoo,  447 

Cmikabaiik'B  iltoitnitioaa,  40 

Dngtti  dotinaatad,  136 

Honldic,  146 

Bof^  (Sir  Wm«mX  165 
Rogoi  (Sir  Williain),  Knt,  82,  165,  242, 244 
Bogara  (Dr.  Charlsa).  on  biogn^tical  datoi,  80 

Laird  or  lord,  175 

■'  Piddj  O'RaBljrtj,"  a  aoni,  472 

Bogcr  (Sir  William),  Sot.,  82 

St  Lnurd,  108 
Kogsn  (Nebamiih),  rtcai  of  Haning,  77,  179 
Rogsn  (Samnel),  eptgraa,  368 
Bokaabj  ths  apiea,  844 
"  Bolliad,''  BDggealad  uDotaCod  adition,  340 
Boman  paTomant  in  Hark  Lanr,  Loodoo,  403 
Bonafna  (Patrick),  arUat,  122 

Rood  (creena  in  Snflblk  ehnrchaa,  148,  267,  516,  54« 
Boacoe  (Wm.)^  aala  of  Ma  booka,  471 
Bog,  tko  marins,  45,  152 
BoaemaiT  QBed  at  fonarala,  106,  343,  464 
BoaafamiljofWigtoi^irc,  110 
Boas  (C.)  oa  a  word  lor  TbooMt  Moore,  367 

PhniBe,"InlheBl«w.-4e2 
RoaiettI  (Daote),  picturo  of  Lady  GraeBataarea,  475 
RosMtti  (W.  M.)  on  SboUsj'a  "  Deinoii  of  the  World,"  24 


Roofih  >=  ruffian,  originof  iha  i*tTd,431,  551 
Rowdon  (B.)  on  apigram  "Cjnl  and  Kalfaai,''  442 
Rojal  Aoad«i)7,  Burlington  Houe,  lioaa  in  ths  domad 

gallarr,  96,  SSO 
Royal  Albert  Hall,  396.  316 
Rojal  awnt  to  Iba  Iridl  Chmdi  bill,  S5S,  441 
Royal  bauasboUi  of  King  DaTid  aad  Qoaan  Vietoria 

428 
Bora]  Ifpograpbr,  30 
Boyc*  (DATidj  on  BcUgottiM  buw,  408 

Gloneoatnshlrs  fM  Ion,  4TI 

Pardon.  1660, 496 

Slov-on-lha-WDld.  430 
R  (B.)  on  an  old  drinkinft  nog,  324 

"  Postic  Mirror,'  177 
R.(S.)Dn"Ea"aDd''En,"194 

Guido'a  Aurora,  print  of,  331 
Rnthvan,  iti  pronnnciatioa,  343,  419 
Bnafaworth   (John),  Index  to  hli  ■■  Hictorkal  Collsc- 
tHHU,"  14S 

Boaacll  (Chaiba)  on  Fanlet  fanuly  of  Amport,  SO 
Roasdl  (J.  F.)  m  the  padieraa  of  Fairfax,  357 
Bnat  (J.  C.)  on  Paalm  iilii.,  210 
B.  (W.  F.)  00  atary  of  a  Matoa,  900 
BnaaeU  (W.  P.)  on  "  The  CenciHad,"  870 


S.  on  Childnn'i  gamaa  in  Sootland,  141 

Darwin's  Ihsorr  in  JaTa,  533 

Discnpancdaa  in  datas,  9 

Eqairalent  foroign  titled,  113 

Euuale  (Loida),  ducandanta,  75 

Ordcraofknighlhood,  197 

Snmamsi  of  oSdala  in  tha  Waat  ladiaa,  406 

Taafe  Camilj,  476 

Wrack  of  "  The  Tampls  '  brig,  410 
a  (A.)  on  boc^  amamaotalioD,  HI 

Friday  tree,  133 

Flamlah  flaharman  in  England,  513 

St.  Joaeph'i  era,  96 

"  Stnak  of  lilnr  sea,"  445 
Saarbr^  enataan,  107, 174,  394 
a«»^  hoaa*,  S40 
8a|a,  FBHrkga,  494 
Saggar,  ita  darifation,  452 
Saint  abbrsTiated  to  T,  479,  550 
SL  Alban'a  Abbsj,  its  reitonlioa,  3SS,  467,  537 
St.  Albana  (Charls  Baaoderk,  lat  Diko  of),  3 
St.  Anthony,  angraTinga  of  bis  lonptatiooa,  408,  4SS 
SuAaglMtiM,"aplsD^peccata,''SS9;  aannoM,  17 
St.  Benal'a  chmh,  Panl's  Wharf,  manuHial  taUib,  473 
St.  £loy,  or  Eligin*,  hit  aaniMo,  305 
St.  Elphegt,  angnTing,  483 
St.  EthamaD'a  friotr,  304,  376 
Si.  Qothlaka,  ngraring,  483 
St.  IgsatJoa,  paiaago  attribatad  to  hfan,  39 
St,  Jan*  or  Joanna  of  Valob,  56, 150,  301 
St.  John  on  Sire  and  tbo  Wliiteboya,  401 
St.  Jotai,  BMdioal  <^ar  of,  S3S,  394 
St.  Joseph's  en,  aong  on,  96 
St.  Joan  of  Dalmatia,  angraving,  483 
St  Laoiaid,  two  iS  the  nania,  108 
Si.  Uichaal's  Moontaof  Coimtall  and  BritUa;,  13S,  SO- 
St  Panorai,  Laatfaart'a  HS.  Hiatnry,  36     , 
St.  Paul,  Ilia  fint  barmit,  112,  '^^^^.^i(^X)Q  IC 


'j<iiru,iin.} 


St  Furs  ndKdnO,  iH  ecmflMicB,  18S,  341,  344,  MI, 

494,  460,  SiS2 
St  Swithln  DO  flcUco  and  l«ct,404 

Pn^tn  pliji,  479 
St.  TbooiM  <f  Villuura,  4SI,  461 
Si.Vlkiiai»,13a,5S6 
St.  mmis,  u  Iri^  sunt,  396 
St  WdI&u,  16S,  S69,  339,  444,  905 
Siinti'  raiUtmi,  309,  431 
S>t>  f Gm.  Angnttiu)  en  doinlioa  of  Gna,  97 
SUkdd  (Wm.),  Brj«uit4t-Uir,  S36 
Suaplsr  pooy,  !1,  1S6,  320,  373,  331,  469,  935 
Sonuna  (Bei.  Btobvi),  ImgniCr,  56,  97, 197 
Swnaoa  (W.).  antbor  of  "  Tb*  CoaaVimi,"  161,  370 
SwicUliDiD  Od  Un.  Cutbain*  Zqifajr,  363 
Sudm  (&)  oa  Kd  foiud  in  Iil«  of  EI7,  334 

Stmt's  cditioTi  of  tha  ComcnoD  Pnjicr,  351 
S*Ddawn  CmU«,  I>1b  .rfWigbt,  103,  176,  335 
GuidwCt  ngiatw,  496 
Suidr*  (Sic  Edwin)  uid  tbe  biihopa,  359 
Sni^Ml,  n  Holj  Grml,  301 
8>  (A.  P.)  on  Iba  dianotar  of 
B«cket'i  ninrdwan,  195 
Epgimm  I  *■  Al  Cjril  and  Kithu,"  350 
Lidj  Grinuton'i  gnn,  76,  139,  195 
Sapiton  church  icrean,  517 
Sineoi,  lU  dariTiUioD,  306 
SuMbnmnvl  on  "  Anima  Christi,"  S06 

Liiuigical  qnerj,  495 
Sanun  miwal,  64,  177 
Satehall  (T.)  on  Index  to  Buihwortb'a  "  ColIecluKU," 

149 
Sarignr  (F.  C.  iron),  "  Treatiu  on  ObligiUou,"  13 
Sanle  (Heoit),  Tice-chaiDb«l^  3 
Sawnay  Baan,  tha  maa-eaUr,  77, 180 
Sits,  or  Da  Saja  famit;,  133,  373,  333 
S.  (C)  on  bilU  actoallr  pnsented,  369 

"  Th*  itrait  gate  and  uairow  vaj,"  31 1 
Waid,  ai  a  pareonil  uinM,  481 
Scunala,  ita  prorindal  uia,  310 
Sccna:  acanj,  SS9,  334,  414 
Sehandel  (Pacnu  no),  bia  dialb,  35 
Sohootmiatir  abroad  In  Staffiiidahira,  ISI,  ISO,  199, 

311,  374,  465 
SeotUnd,  lut  of  ita  klnp,  995;  sarlj  qnaent  of,  344; 
oompititon  foe  tha  Ooira,  363,  446;  Sooietj  of  An- 
tiqDariei,  47 
S«i>tt  on  tbe  cau  of  Uarj  JobiOO,  76 

Eobold  of  GiSlMn,  96 
Scottidanu  in  Amanci,  159 
Scottiah  gnaid  of  Fane*,  455 
Sco^ah  iwnpapan,  earlinl,  390,  549 
Scottiah  aocietia*,  73 

Scil[dt  or  CluiiUDaa  achoel  [nace,  149,  SOI,  351,  463 
Soma  (Sir  Carr),  Bar!.,  3 

ScndAr  (G.  da),  Kej  (o  ••  La  Grand  OjTna,'  44, 149 
Send^rr  (MidanuiMlle  de),  44 
S.  (C.  W.)  oa  tha  bookworm,  168 
"Anhnr'a  alow  wain,"  5)3 
ran>dUa,361 
"  Pnnch  "  a  [mpbet,  33 
a  f  D.)  00  bell-rii^iing,  1 10 
E>  (E.)  on  WinchotetDoDinDi  aoag,  140 
Seal  (bond  in  (he  lala  of  EIj,  334 
Seali,  antiqoa  haada  in  msdiaTal,  493 
Seam  tit  straw  and  baj,  439,  506 


Scats  not  oaiiied  awa;,  531 

Sqtdooaa  mcoastarr,  395,  499 

Sai&rth  (C.)  on  "  A  partj  in  a  parionr,''  36 

3.  (E.  L.)  OD  a  lorgotlan  HomerUt,  363 

HowlinaoD  (Bobart),  a  emtenariaa,  ISO 

Iiidi  Doddf,  165 

TwiM  (B.)  "  ToQi  in  IieUnd,'' 367 
&alb7  bmltr,  516 

Saldao  (Jcdin),  eoDtetion  of  ballads,  496 
Septnagint,  works  oa,  915 
Senn  Weoden  of  Valea,  14S,  367 
Stw«11  (J.)ea  Gainaboroogh'a  "  Bins  Boj,"  337,  366, 

391 
Srwall  (Sir  Thoma*),  puvnlage,  309,  376 
Sam,  their  mental  aqnalilj,  97,  333 
S.  (F.)  on  "  God  Dude  man,"  Sec,  11, 3S1 

HandaTs  Usaaiab,  304 

Sipibeards,  330 

"  Tb*  Heaving  of  th*  Lead,"  148 
S.  (F.  H.)  on  tbe  bookworm,  263 

Kbdin^  "  Bibliegnpbiea]  Decameron,"  356 


iTatalj-print 
■  funUj  of 


itedbf 


a.  13 


Jj  of  Wgtonahin,  110 
SmTlh  (Jantes)  of  WhitehiU.  515 
S.  (Q.  H.)  on  Hiddlelon  cnalom,  119 
Sudwell  (Tbonai),  peat,  3 

Sbaftaahuj  (Antboa;  Aahl^  Coopar,  let  Earl  of),  447 

Shakspaara  (William),  traditJOD  of  hia  death,  52;  and 

tbe  Ardan  bmil;,  118, 169;  his  acqoaintanea  wiih 

L;lj'a  "  Enphnaa,*  524;  Works,  earl;  aditioos,  181 


Merchant  of  Ventoa,  142,  37 1 

Timon  of  Athens,  Act  ir.  bc  3 ;  "  Ton  want  nucA 
ef  meal,"  3S0,  465 
Shannon  (Francis  Bofle,  Vlscomit  of),  S5S,  4S4 
Sbsrd  =  cow^dong,  105,  199 
Shaiman  (Jnllan)  on  babj's  eorais,  31 

Bacon's  Qneen'a  coonselahip,  391  t 

I^wa  reapscting  bnttoni,  73 

Uanalanghlar  and  Cold  iron,  36S 

Nona,  a  alang  word,  85 

Parodisa,  woik*  on,  16 

PhiloM^iuod  nakedoaea,  375 
Sharp*  (Biobaid  Smrtoo),  noticed,  55,  148 
Sbaw  (Sunnd),  en  the  bookworm,  168 

Soipait,  I4S 
Shearea  (laaao)  «n  Bei^j.  Franklin^  laorel  wreath,  189 

War  nwdala,  131 
Shearwort,  a  plant,  35,  ISt,  344,  333,  463,  537 
HiefiUd  Calk  lore,  399,  439 
SbellBj  (P.  B.),  "Demon  of  Ihe  World,"  34;  "  Qaea- 

lien,"  455;  "  OzjrmandiaB,"  456;  "  Adonaia,"  456 
SbewaD  (W.  H.)  on  Iba  great  bear  and  sommer  fall,  379 
Shield  (Wm.),  song ,"  Healing  of  the'Lead,"  55,  148 
Shillings,  lim,  187 
Ships,  Obinee*  rnddere  of,  163 
Sbipton  (Hothsr),  life  and  death,  25 
Sbiriar  (E.  Ph.)  m  Irish  folk  lore,  399 


Iriab 

Stanhope  (Sit  WlUiam),  353 

Stadman  fiuoil?,  335 

"  Thonghts  of  Patricins,"  ita  author,  97 
Sumglea,  its  deriTatko,  IS6 

Shop  aigna  in  Vienna,  306  /-  ~~-  r 

ShortboBM  (J.  H.)  on  adoraiog  »*U«,  tHeo  by  V^t  C)  C^  Q  I C 


Etinnsbtn  ujings,  9,  131,  SSI 

Sicilua  tjnnt,  431 

Sekle  BojDo,  336,  813 

KgutarlH,  SD  DdjacUva  <v  nwui,  44,  IT<,  331 

SjgDboud  ftr  tMtoUUan,  330 

SigDst  roand  >t  Biin,  300 

Simnu  (Wm.  GOnnra),  hi*  datb,  406 

SimoD  (Ttaomu),  appiHnUiMnt  u  mediltiit,  SIS 

SmooidM  (CmaCutiiw)  ud  tb*  "  C«l*i  Sautfeu,' 

77, 179 
Simpon  (W.  Bpurow)  ta  Dngdak'i  St  PWT*,  881 
PnnBiDS  Bad  jcMide  on  nunn.  lo« 


TMth  f<ift  1m«,  «6 
Siniu,  the  Isica  of  tlie,  3ST 
Sn  ud  the  WHUbojt,  124, 999,  401 
S.  (J.)  on  Lord  ByroD'a  "  Enf^lab  Bai4i,'  SS 

5.  (J.  R)  on  Williun  Baliol,  302 

Skiifc  (a  B.)  OD  tlie  Hon.  CMtaerin  Siatbeott,  «4 

Tenick  (Bichud),  bulM  if  Lgndoo,  104 
Sksit  (W.  W.)  00  Ds  Bofam,  !4 

Cbattertoo'a  koowMga  of  AbeIb-Sumi,  378 

it  and  En,  60 

Biddln,  udcnt,  546 
Skodaddle,  its  drntMion,  351 
Skating  =  ilidiog,  lai,  369 
Sbwkabogiiu' "  TreitM  <ra  Sett."  135 
Sbigh  (John)  on  -  Eikon  B«i]ik«,"  9 

Witmri,  orWjnoeJl  (Btv.  TTionBu),  191 
SWgh  (Jwejii  Fenn),  Qoia«irittf>  El^  on  him,  9 
Skm-nonn  BQperalilion,  427 

6.  (L.  V.)  on  CfnuTirfKiw,  408 

a  (M.  A.)  tti  lunplen'  ponf.  136 
SnuUI-poi  in  Viiea,  1723,  301 
SOHlb,  the  memorj  of,  I7ti,  413,  481 
Smith  funllna,  lh>  faenldry  of,  43,  179,  313 
Knith  (Hnbtit)  on  John  King^,  the  raclma,  913 

Stodnun  nunilr,  239 
Smilh-rW.  A.)  on  «  Tkongh  lort  to  mght,'  (te.,  244 
Smith  (Dr.  Win.),  Im^i.  15S9-I55S,  77 
Smith  (W.  J.  B.)  on  bibin'  bell»,  iSI 

Inkitand  of  Wedgwood  Hire,  171 

Hnmman:  waits,  S43 

Toadstooo  rin^,  484 
Smoking  illogd,  I9S,  »S.  35> 
SiDTth  family  of  Ireland,  121,  ]25 
Smjth  (James)  of  Whilehiil,  515 
anjtli  (J.  J.)  DB  Smjth,  alia,  Heii  of  WMio»t«,  135 
SDaiz  on  fire  third-poinCtd  spina,  132 
Soop,  a  aonod  made  b;  a  billiard  bait,  SIS 
SodtAaa  Albertomm  Aatiqaomm,  SC 
Sodal,  monnwat  to  the,  361 
Soldini,  nnimed,  in  1659,  495 
Solata,  in  paiirfi  ngjrtns,  314 

Bong!  and  BaU»di:— 

Amtiioui  nationil  n^  1 1 ,  78,  Its 
Ariul  ariiel  firitania'g  hdi,  an* I  7t 

Arthmian  baUadi,  478 


Bridca  of  Uans  Endet^,  333 

Bring  US  in  good  ■!«,  fc^  334 

BompK  SfiiJn  Jono,  179 

Cbrlatniaa  caiol,  33 

Cotambial*  tbam  m  wU*  aod  wOd,  11, 78.  in 


Bongs  ftnd  B>U»di:— 

Cimi  Boger  ta  me  aa  thou  art  mj  ton,  438 

Danish  boj'i  soog,  24 

Death  and  the  Udj,  SOi 

DmgUs!  DongUa!  tender  and  tni^  83 

Drinking  song,  454,  537 

Dnlce  Domnm,  140 

Farren  (Ladf),  309,  884 

French  conTJTul,  SBj  "O  men  Kcnl  la  Eiim  mg 
pitmt,'  73,  115;  war,  145, 158 

Goody  bottled  al^  44 

On;  (Arthor),  the  footann,  307 

GntmlMm  (Ladr),  475,  5S0 

Id  antmnD  m  ihcnild  drink,  bofi,  294 

EHmeor,  bj  Jtrnm  Begg,  SIS 
Iiaoriger  BtaratilK,  334,  398 
Hwtb  LanenUn  M>g^  486,  54S 
Kotting,  168 

O  happy  oonntty  Hfct  pan  like  ik  air,  431 
Order  of  the  Bath,  by  Lord  Cbmtofidd,  SOT 
Paddy,  or  Peggy,  (VBdMy,  473 
PartonandBHoo,  171 

PlMUint  KDg,  333 

fiobin  in  aarch  of  a  wifi,  543 
Staan  Vin  Toght,  64 
KmilM  to  Holly,  410 
Songi,  oM,  and  ballade,  398,  506 
Swan-songofFanonATOT,  30,  148,388,433 
Swiie  apriog  emig,  331 
The  Bann  Hood  behind  a  tree,  387 
The  Be;  and  Oe  MtaOa,  947 
The  Coontiy  Lils,  437 
The  Otddeo  Pippin,  318 
The  Heaving  of  lb*  Lead,  93, 148, 860 
The  Heir  of  Linna,  473 
The  Panpei'a  Difra,  365 
The  Soota  and  his  Sow,  361,  467 
The  Thonght,  cr  a  Soog  of  Simiks,  410 
The  Tnu  Hayde  <^  the  Sonth,  390 
Tin  Tnu  Toper,  S8 
Wu  Kogi,  10,  14S,  158 
Whinny  Moor,  83, 133 
SoanaC  qneiiee,  450,  545 
Sothenn  (C.)  m  De  Says  w  Say  bmily,  383 
Toller  (Uihsp  Tm.},  351 
Han,  rang  or  Queen  id,  339 
SoDthcete  (Hon.  Cttberine)  in  1786,  64, 177 
"    on  Ajn  Amily  snniame,  886 

Caiy^  "  Patasologia  Chronica,'*  148 
Children's  geoMS,  415 
Cooke:  Cookce:  Coi^cMj,  310 
flemish  ftmiliae  anna,  310 
Fnear  and  Fiiaal  Eunilias,  55 
flares  tiking  Teogguos,  398 
Hood  (Thomu),  and  Tariott*  nadiogi,  31 
PouHD  fslmly,  of  Eippaonas,  36 
Penhe  (Ooonts  of),  tbiir  irms,  331 
Prosody,  395 
Gootd^  sootetio,  73 
Smljth&mllie8,313 
Spanish  "  Notca  and  Qaerio,'*  903 
Spenser  (Edmnad),  allegory  in  the  "  Fseria  QaeaD,*  I ; 
railpeinmaiiiit,49,  ITS;  typi^iapbieal  amn,  383; 
the  poet  of  Ireland,  317;  bia  Puope,  983 
Spins,  the  Gts  English  of  tUid-potnted  dal&  39, 181 
^tteo  bird,  190,  810  -^~  ,  ,  ^.^i  vvjQlC 


Spoioi  imcriptioli  t  Etwill  Hall,  Owtj^iUn,  74 
&  (P.  W.)  oD  >  gsm  qnerj,  SSS 
'  Sun-dill  inioriptuiai,  US,  SS4 

SpTob  (2Bd  Lord),  Dotiad,  410 
S.  (B.  B.)  <n  "  Heut  of  tmrti,-  463 

Sna-diil  insctiptioDi,  546 
a  (S.  H.)  mi  baptiam  for  tba  SmA,  363 

BsskA's  miudaran,  896 

Facto  in  itt»ipfC«<id  plana,  S97 

Haiiloo  (Bar.  Jiriu),  liua  «  a  aamplar,  S73 
S.  (T.)  on  Sir  Jebn  ?tmt^  M7 
StaSbrd  ftmilj,  S87 

Sufflvd  (Jobn),  abp.  of  Oantartiiiir,  hmilj,  iU,  »0, 
soo 

Stomp  cai  Kctnn  cam*,  97, 19S,  S4S 

Stood,  Iha  abaenca  of  anj  Fnncll  word  aigmTjiog  "  Co 

iMad,''  378,  43S 
Stonhaps  (Sir  Wm.),  portialC,  369,  858 
Stonliir  (Deu)  CO  MuiUc'i  pistnna  it  tba  Pra^gal 

Son,  130 
SUolay  (St  John),  aeoond  king  of  Uao,  M9 
StonlcT  (Thonat),  biibop  af  Sodor  Mkd  Man,  96,  901 
SUnlar  (Sir  Thomu),  Cf''*!''.  '^i  991 
Storkii  (Liatit.  Col)  OQ  Mnotint  of  Olinr  Cnmnll, 


;,  40,  179,  94S,  368, 


974 

Stanbm  Cboreh,  mnnl 

410,497,617 
StoUnwnti,  lufa,  2S3,  373,  989,  418,  481 
SUlDC,  tlorj  of  o«>,  136,  900 
S.  (T.  C.)  OG  the  .dream  of  Eliiabctb  da  TAicba,  409 
Uatlon  and  capeia,  190 
WordiwoTlh,  Cooilabla,  &e^  233 
SCedmaa  fatnil;,  369,  335 
Sulla  (Jacqaei),  artiat,  77 
Slcpbma  (F.  G.)  on  "Eaaaji,  DiTiot,  Moral,"  &t. 

418 
Stepej  ;«ri«b,  iU  dargf,  S83i  nwBarial  btUa  al  Si. 

DoDitoD'a,  61 1 
Storlliie (Capt Edirafd), " Thmiwat <rf 'The  rimM,'" 

468,  534,  663 
StaraluM  (Thccnaa),  Tanion  of  Pt.  Ixniii.  46, 934 
SUTOUon  (JttiD  Hall),  hia  •■  Cnuj  Talw,*  154,991 
StawardicD  (TbM),  JDB.,  oi  Bmnhaa  diBcdi,  3S7 
ODlMt*DdGiiiae,'333 
Jaatan  m  ahipbaud,  909 
"  Tba  Hob  la  iht  Wall,'  417 
Stilto  =cnilcbca,  943,  814 
StockwcU  aonli,  270 
Stone  (W.  GO  on  bmk  otnaaaatotion,  '147 

»«7afiiMD>,  300 
Staaabeiigs,o1dpriiitaaf,  86,  179,  197 
Story  and  it*  Hpanaiona,  39 
Stow-in  tbe- Wo  Id,  ita  Drat  dioccaa,  844,  490 
Strait  gaM  and  narraiT  wa;,  93.  396,  811 
atraabnrs  [ibnry,  Ito  laatontiai,  190,  393,  448,  487, 

S5S;  HKMt'a  Catatogna,  473 
Street  (E.  £.}  on  "  The  DnQ  baato  hia  wife,"  36 
Stnet  \G.  £.)  aa  tbe  oompMion  of  St  FaolV  4S4 
fiUart  (Cbttlta  Edward),  gnuldaai  of  Jamaa  H,  an 

alidad  letter  of  tba  Kioc  «r  Pnuaa  lo  bin,  1 17 
Stuart  (Jama  Franda  Bdwatd),  hd  of  Jaaa  U.,  bi« 

birth,  191 
Start  (J^n),  aditlOD  af  tba  OaannaB  Pra^ar,  98*,  3S1 
tjtiag  ttaUj,  9S4 

tiflblk  (Charlia  Brandon,  Duke  of),  330 
anuner  runftll  and  tba  Great  Bear,  300, 379 


nn-dial  inaeriptiou,  965,  .194,  S77,  399, 508,  999, 
546 
SarDamca  of  officdata  In  tba  Weat  ladiaa,  406,  483 
Snnt7  chorabaa  dtatrqrad  in  1668,  476 
"  Soaan  and  Bebecca,"  ito  wreck,  306 
S.  (W.)  on  Mtoft  Fables  hj  Bowick,  349 

"  Danish  Bi^'a  Song,"  94 

Gladh,  ila  deriratlon,  464 
S.  (W.  A.)  on  Biitiih  u^tbad  ahaiioto^  4«0 
Sweating  (W.  D.)  on  raeona  for  going  to  cbmdi,  100 

Beotoibip  of  Ngbt}-oiui  jean,  98 
S.  (W.  H.)  on  Faradaj'a  pedaatiiao  feat,  966 

Hatnige  of  Enelieh  princcaaaa,  969 

Uonroii^  wrillDg  paper,  109         ^ 

'Norwich  catbeJnd,  iU  alter  dab,  3«0 

Fbileaophieal  nakadnau,  376 

"  Tbe  Prodigal  Son,"  407 
Swift  (Godwin),  104 

Swift  (Dean  Jonathan),  utin  co  hin,  418 
Swill  Bpring  taof,  981 

S«it»rland  inradad  t?  the  EogCah  in  1375,  S« 
Sfon  Hooaa  nima,  408 


T.  on  pariah  ra^atara  at  Barbadua,  4M 

Tufa  fudlr,  476 

Talbot  (Etiaabetb),lMr  will.  864 

Talbot  ISt  Gilbert)  and  Calais  in  1919, 139 

Taoooek  (a  W.)  cb  Britiah  Kjtbed  obariaU,  503 

TaF«li7pictraiU,611 

TiTcma,  inns,  &e.,  ooHeMloni  te  thttr 

Tajlof,  not  Tijlnr,  Gunilj,  36 

Taylor  (Bp.  Jeram;),  daacendanta,  143,  990,  516 

Tijlor  (John)  on  NorUuunptooibire  fenta,  475 

T.  (B.)  on  Picbkr,  a  gam  an^nr,  397 


519 


T.  (0.  B.)  on  " 

T.  (C.  £.)  on  Engliah  rsrsi£calion,  390 

Tea,  iU  aarlj  bm.  139 

Teeth  folk-lore,  85 

TeetotalUeie' aignboard,  390 

"Tenpla'  brig,  ita  wreck,  366,  410 

Tanbr,  its  derivation,  60,  61 

TennjBon  (Alfred)  and  Congran,  SOI,  376,  iW 

Tennjaooian,  431 

Tariu,  ita  raina,  539 

Terriek  (Bp.  Biehard),  biognpbj,  104 

Tew  (Edmund)  co  "  Ih*  hictar  and,"  U 

Conitantine,  cbaowtcr  al,  303 

Ka-sprit,  188,  877 

'  Hia  own  opinion  was  hit  law,"  105 

Klbei,  »  Thebin  phlloiopber,  S3,  331 

Honnt  Calnrr,  lOS,  379 

Orlaton  (Adam  de),  151 

patebin,  ita  meaning,  3 1 

Pietaa  tbe  PkiBgbnan'a  Creda,  85 

Popular  mathed  of  obMrn^  eelipa«,  479 

Pronanciatian  of  Oraek  and  Lata,  1 73 

Boh  stalemeato,  933,  989 

St.  Ignatins,  paMeg*  attrihotad  to  hki,  39 

Soana:  Soan^,  334 

Strut  gate  and  narrow  way,  98 

"  Veritas  in  pnteD."  ])B 
Tewan  on  nuuriages  of  EngUih  prioceMee,  308 

Dnke  of  Bnckmgbam's  motbo',  M4  /  ~~-  ■ 

KUli™,^.ainiHl«i]ta,»Uby(^nOO<^le 


t  UORIH,  WlUl  Mo.  lU,  jBlf  U,  im. 

nodi)  DO  '  to  lUnd,"  no  Fnneh  «vd  oc- 

fiBg,  278 

sli  (Abp.)  Hoban  Lactam,  379 

bp,  B.  CO,  "  HdIhw  Lactum"  qootad,  7S, 

e 

i^alonlniffix,  113 

(H.  H .}  00  llwaiiUr'i  "  Bdlwk,"  361 

(Sir  W.  C.)  OD  hiiUrj  npnUiij!  iudf,  Jf  I) 

"  GraU  HertwII,*  qBotaO,  1 SS,  SOB,  333,  4G3 

or,  Cannll,  iu  hutorj,  487 

[Jmh  la)  od  dU  bilkd*.  473 

.  gita  and  Dvrgw  way.  BSfi 

gigutio  tin  aioging,  SSO 

I  DO  Lord  Braoghun'i  oollcga  rriand,  376 

LO  "  La  Gnod  Cjrna,"  44 

I  <■■  bom  aod  cnrtaaTa,  330 

.)  on  ^  Joho  Muon,  4S0 

IT7  Uaaart  da  la^  447 

iMnaa,  Jan.)  «a  Plainly  :  "  BampBr  Squira 

Dta,"  173 

rtick  ouitoni,  107 

W.)  on  Capt.  John  Umoo,  26S 

Points  aF  Pietjr,"  610 

ibard),  "  Tout  ia  Iraluid,'  163,  S67 

I  00  tbe  Bird  Caga  Walk,  95 

p  on  piotara  caotaa,  19S 

F.)  OQ  JoaniKa  BapliaU'i  "  Ariilatla,'  34i> 

)  OD  didactic  poalrj  of  Italy,  149 

and  Goiiot,  proniiDditioa;  I4S 
Vm.),  orthograplij  of  hia  ".Nair  TcataiMnt,' 


.)  on  Albuy  uid  AmondaTill*,  SIS 
die,  147 
iajatOircrd,  511 


I,  139 

(Tfaaodora),  atorj  aacritxd  to  him,  314 

ja^491 

Hlaj,  or  MUD  booaca,  340 

ciuia  io  Amariea,  1 59 

daw  cf  "  Tha  Tiinaa,'  456 

W.)  on  Tmolhy  DeHar,  17* 

V 
bat,  135 

Mr.),  a  moQDtabank,  302 
ataij),  SIniiat,  Worlo,  401  j  alluiiao  a 

babin'  balla,  133 
and  cartaiaa,  109,  444 
aack>ii,334 

bt  of  llghta,"  463 
iagala  (Lady),  330 
rsblp  of  elgbty-Do*  jaui,  97 
I  ouuiucoK  (Hon.  Catbarina),  177 

Villagai'  "  Livaa  aF  U»  Saint*,"  S93 
Vocdane  co1nD»>,  508  '    '.■.,-„iIf> 

I  Vcnwt  (Uanu»),  lilh^^,  fOt-^  C) C  J *^  1 1 


db,  Google 


