This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


i 


NotM  ud  QbvIm,  laly  97. 1901. 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 


ineDtuin  of  Sntercommunicatton 


FOB 


LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


"When  found,  make  a  note  of." — Captain  Cuttle. 


NINTH     SKRIES.— VOLUME    VIL 
January — June  1901. 


LONDON:  | 

rVBLUHID  AT  THB 


OFFICE,    BREAM'S    BUILDINGS,    CHANCERY    LANE,    EG 
By  JOHN  0.  FRANCia 


HotM  and  Qneriet,  July  37.1901. 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 

%  ^tVium  of  gntercommnniatton 


n% 


LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


'  Wh«B  fovnd,  aukka  a  bo%«  of."— CAnAW  OOTffLli 


No.  158.  [»''.',7i.]  Saturday,  Januaby  5,  1901.         { j;:^^^::^. 

CHATTO   &^  J^l^^^US^SJ^W  BOOKS. 

ECCENTRI0ITIB8  of  GENIUS:  Memories  of  Famous  Men  and  Women  of  the  Platfonn  and 

th€  gttige.    My  Major  T.  R  PuNU.    With  91  Pertmif.    Demy  Sto,  doth,  gilt  top.  11<. [fan.  17. 

A  MISSING  HERO,    ^y  Mrs.  Alsxandcb,  Author  of  *  The  Wooing  o't'    Crown  Svo,  oloth,  eilt 

top.  6g. [/w».Y0. 

UERMINAL;  or,  Master  and  Man.   By  £milb  Zola,  Author  of  *The  Downfall/  Ac.  Edited, 

with  Ml  latrodacttoa.  by  IWNS8T  A.  VIZBTBLLY. ___^»-_____ [/on.  10. 

The  INIMITABLE  MRS.  MASSINGHAM:  a  Romance  of  Botany  Bay.     By  Hebbbbt 

tt>MP rot*.  Aathor  or  •  A  yrae  L»»co  to  «  Far  Land.'   Crown  8vo,  oloth.  gilt  top.  6*. __«___^ 

The  FOURTH  GENERATION.    By  bir  Waltbb  Bbbabt,  Author  of  *The  Orange  Girl/  &o. 

THIK1>  KDtTlOW.    CtowB  StO.  cloth.  gUt  top.  Cl. 

The  MAN  that  CORRUPTED  HADLEYBURG,  and  other  Stories  and  Sketches.    By 

MABKTWA.IIC.    With  a  FrMiUtpiooa  by  Lndos  Hltchooek.    THIBO  EDITIOIC.    L*rown  8to,  doth.  ffUt  top.  Oa. 

"  AS  a  Watch  in  the  NIGHT":  a  Drama  of  Waking  and  Dream.    By  Mrs.  CampBbll 

PlJAltD.  Aathor  of  •  MadMne  laao.'  Jte.    Crown  Bto.  doth,  gilt  top.  6a. 

AS  LUCK  WOULD  HAVE  IT.    By  William  Wbstall,  Author  of  '  With  the  Bed  Bagle/  &c. 

Crowu  8yo.  doth,  gilt  top,  9». _^__        -__^^« 

The  BAG  of  DIAMONDS,  and  THREE  BITS  of  PASTE.    By  Gbobgb  Manyillb 

FBKW.  Aathorof'ACrtmaonCrlmo.'Jte.    Crown  8to.  doth,  gUt  top,  to.  , 

PHILIP  WINWOOD :  a  Sketch  of  the  Domestic  History  of  an  American  Captain  in  the  War  of 

Independenee.    ByHOBBRT  NBILSON  STBPHBNS.    With  6  mntratJona.    Crown  8to.  doth,  gUt  top,  Oi. 

The   "PRETTY  POLLY":  a  Voyage  of  Incident.    By  W.  Clabk  Russell,  Author  of  'The 

WrcdL  of  tht "  Oroavenor. "'  4te     With  12  IllattraUona  by  O.  B.  Boberfon.    Small  demy  8to.  doth.  gUt  edgaa.  69. _«_—.-_ 

The  SMALL- PART  LADY,  fto.    By  Gbobqb  a  Sims,  Author  of  '  The  Dagonet  Ditties,*  &o. 

Crown  8to.  doth.  U,  9d.  

The  ADVENTURES  of  TYLER  TATLOCK,  Private  Detective.   Belated  by  Diok 

DOWOTAW.  Author  of  •  A  DatectI  Te'»  Trinmpha,'  ttc.    Crown  8to,  cloth,  3$.  Od. 

The  CLOISTER  and  the  HEARTH.    By  Chablbs  Rbadb.    a  Labqb-Typb,  Finb-Fafeb 

HDITION.    Pott  8yo.  doth.  tM.  not ;  laather,  S$.  not. 

EUINDLEY  CROSS ;  or,  Mr.  Jorrocks's  Hunt.    By  Robbbt  Subtees,  Author  of  <  Mr. 

Sponge  »  Sporting  Tonr.'   With  7»  Illnstrmttona  by  JOHN  LBBCH.    A  WBW  BDITIOW.    Poat  8to,  doth.  1$, 

LONDON   MEMORIES :    Social,   Historical,   and   Topographical.     By  c.  W. 

HBCKBTHORH ,  Author  of  •  London  SonTonlra.'  Jte.    Crown  8to,  doth,  gilt  top.  6«. 

BY  SIR  WALTER  BESANT:-  * 

liONDOH.    With  US  Ulttitratlona.    Demy  8to.  doth,  7«.  ftl. 

w BSTMUf SI BH.    With  Etched  Pronttaptece  by  F.  S.  Walker,  m4  180 ninatrotloaa.    Demy  8to,  cloth.  7«.  9d. 
MUUTH  LONDON.    With  Etched  Fninttupleoe  by  F.  S.  Walker,  ana  118  lUaatmUona.    Demy  Sro.  doUi.  gUt  top.  Ut 
yirrx  YBAIW  ago     with  lU  lUnttmtTona.    crown  8to.  doth.  St.  M.    "'"""^    ^"'  ■^"' '»'~» ■"*  ^^'  *~- 

JKEUSALBM  t  the  pty  of  Herod  and  Mladln.    By  WALTER  BliSANT  and  &  H.  PALKBB.    FOVBTH  EDITION,  With  A  MeW  Chapter  S 
Map,  and  11  maatimtlun*.    ^ma^^  demy  8to,  doth,  7i  9d. vnapier,  ■ 

The    GENTLEMAN'S    MAGAZINE.    One  Shilliog  Monthly.     amtenU  for  JANUARY:^ 

NAOMI.    By  JohaStaflbrd.-'nie  PfiCSslAN  BiCENrMNAUY.    By  W.  Miller,  1CA.-.TRACKBBAT'8  WOMEN      By  Edward  M&B«n - 

The  COMSrCKJK  LOUE.     Bt  E.  B.  Uebora,  HA.-0>UNTBT  FABSONAOES.    By  t£ji£r   ]£  O.  W^lM   M.£^ 

MimDEBS.    By  a  PMrvnat  W»pao«.~An  OLD  HIOH  TOWN  and  an  OLD  PA^cT  %  t^y  iituer^V'MVlPAl^B 

9t  Albtrt M. H|Mmn.-.WBilT.pyiUmEAN  LAWTCBBS  JhttiaFAtfT.    Byl^  w£UW-l3^&  AlKSljfc    By  Syl^J  Urffi. 

London:  GHATTO  k  WINDUS,  111,  St.  Martin's  Lane,  ^«0, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9*8.vii.  jAy.s.iwi. 


BOOK-PLATES. 
JUST  PUBLISHED.  Part  IV.  Vol.  IV.  Third  Series,  price  2t.  W. 

MISCKLLANEA       GENEALOGICA 
ET  HBRALDICA. 
With  Two  Armorial  Book-Platea  of  the  Dnkes  of  Gordon,  described 
bj  Clarenoeax  Kioff  of  Arm*,  and  Onuit  of  Arms,  with  iuigt%riug,  to 
irUllam  Chetter.  U  Edward  IV..  Ac. 

London  :  MITCHELL  A  HUGHES,  140,  Wardovr  Street.  W. 


(J 


o 


NS    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES.      Engraved 

on  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MORINO. 

Fcap.  dto.    Printed  direct  from  the  Oriclnal  Blocks  on  Hand-made 
Paper,  bound  in  artlsUo  boards,  124.  Ocf.  ne(. 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Bngrraved  on  Copper. 

B7  THOMAS  MORIMG. 

Uniform  with  (he  above.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Plates 

on  Hand-made  Paper,  86«.  net. 

THOMAS  MORIMO. 
The  De  la  More  PreM,  02,  High  Hoi  bom.  London.  W.C. 


MOW  HBAOY,  SECOND  BOITIOM,  HBVISBD  and  AUGMENTED, 
prioe  Slzpenoe. 

ASTRONOMY      for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A.  F.&.A.S. 
O.  8TONEMAN,  SO,  Warwiek  Lane.  B.C. 


f;;.ENTLBMANLY     YOUTH     WANTED     for 

\J  RRCKErARlAL  WUliK.  One  deslroui  of  obtalninir  an  Inttvht 
Into  the  rontine  of  a  Printing  OfBce  preferred  — Applj,  or  tend  L&rucn* 
iars,  to  F.,  Atheofpom  Press,  Braam'a  linlldlngs.  E.u. 

lULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

for  Searches  and  Authentic  Information  respecting 

ARMORIAL    BEARINGS   AND   FAMILY    DK8CBNT8, 

with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artistic  ProdocUon  of 

HERALDIC  PAINTING  AND  ENGRAVING. 

Book-Flates,  Seals.  Dies,  Signet  Ringn.  Llrery  Itottons,  Crested  NoM- 

Paper,  VlsiUug  and  luvitatlun  Cards,  «e. 


82.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Park). 


QAKD8 


FOR    LIBRARY    CATALOG UBtt. 

CARD  CABINETS  in  Polished  Oak,  Ac. 
ADJUSTABLE    BOOK    SHELVING, 

PAMPHLET    aad    MSS.    BOXES, 
and  many  SpeelaUties  of  Use  In  Libraries  and  Mnsenms. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— 8DGAR— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 


LIBRARY    SUPPLY    CO.,    Mannlftetarers. 
Itl,  Queen  Vietorla  Street,  London.  B.C. 

BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  sup* 
plied,  no  matter  on  what  Snb)eoc.  Acknowledged  the  wortd  oT«r 
aa  the  must  espert  Bookfladers  e&taot.  Please  tiate  wunu.— BAJLUtV 
Great  Bookshop.  1446.  John  Bright  Street,  Birmingham. 

IRSr    EDITIONS    of    MODERN    AUTHORS. 

indndlng  Dickens,  Thackerajr,  Lever,  Ainsworth ;  Books  lllile- 
trated  by  O.  and  R.  Cruikshank.  Phix,  Rowiandson.  Leech.  *o.  The 
largest  and  ehoieeet  Colieouon  offered  for  Hale  in  the  World.  Ohua- 
lognes  Issaed  and  sent  poet  free  on  applioation.  Hookn  bonghc.~ 
WALTER  T.  SPENCER,  27.  New  Oxford  Street,  London,  W.C. 


BCHWBPPB8  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  InteraaUonal 
ExhiUtton,  Paris,  1800. 

SGHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda 

THESE  WATERS  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  ToDic> Water,  Gioger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continue  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

/    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:—    ^ 
\  SGHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,  > 


In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS. 


ATHENiEUM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  Athtnmtm,  NoU$  and  Qmctwh,  ao..  is 
prapared  to  SUBMIT  EttTlMATEtt  tor  aU  kinds  of  RuuK.  NEWS, 
and  PERIODICAL  PRINTINO.— U,  Bream's  Bvildtnga.  ChaMorr 
Lane,  EC. 


T 


^HE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER-PAD. 


p»rfee< 
Pookel 


ScHWEPPES,  LTD..  LONDON,  MaLVERN, 

OLASOOW.  LIVERPOOL,  BKIMTOL.  SYDNEY,  and   MELBOURNE. 


M.  LeaoenbaU  Street.  London,  E.C. 

Contains  halrtcsa  paper,  over  wbleh  the  pen  sUps  with 
trevaom.  Sispvnee  aaeh.  it.  ptr  doien.  ruled  or  plala.  Met 
Sise.  Sa.  per  dotea.  mJed  or  plain. 

Antbor*  shunio  note  that  The  Leadeahall  Preaa,  Ltd. 
responsible  for  the  loss  of  MaS  l>r  Are  or  otnerwlse. 
shonJd  bo  retained. 

S~TICKPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Gnm  for  sticklnf  in  Scraps,  Joining  Pbpera.  Ae.  dd.  na4  Is.  with 
strong,  neefnl  Bmsb  (not  a  Toj).  Send  two  stamps  to  eoter  postage 
for  a  sample  BotUe,  laelttding  Brash,  fhetory.  Sngnr  Leaf  Comrt, 
Leadenhail  Street,  E.C.    Of  aU  Stationers.    Sttekphast  PasM  atleka. 


THB   DA'WTT    OP   A   NBW    OBNTUBY 
SHOULD    SBB   EVISBY    ONIQ   FOS8BS8SD    OF 


DEBRETT'S 


PSERAGB  (with  Index  to  Courtesy  Titles), 
BARONETAQfi  (with  Index), 
Kl^IOHTAQfi  and  COMPANIONAGE, 
1901  EDITION  NOW  READY. 
Increued  to  OYsr  3,000  p«icef.    Includes  all  recent  Honours,  the  numerous  alterations  caused  by  the  Boer  War  and  1 
Qeneral  Kleotlon.    An  Appendix  of  Koyal  Warrant  Holders.    Cloth  gilt,  3U.  Hd. ;  or  in  9  vols.  Itft.  M.  each. 

1901  EDITION  NOW  KEADY. 
DBBRETT'S    WAISTCOAT    POCKET    DIARY. 

THE  HANDIEST  DIABT  FOtt  THB  POCKET.    Scarlet  paste  grain,  gUt  edges,  U. 

London :  DEAN  ft  SON,  LIMITED.  160a,  Flost  Street,  £.€• 


8tts.viLJA>j.6.i9oi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


1 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  JANUARY  6,  1901. 


CONTENTS.  — No.  158. 
KOTBS:— Darey  Lever,  1— School  Teachers  in  Kent,  3— 
The  Dmnalds— Wine  in  the  Early  Church,  4— '•  Collate  "— 
An  Adulterate  Quotation—"  Busticneas"— Two  of  a  Nam^ 
in  a  Family— **  A  still  small  voice  "—Scottish  Dance,  6— 
American  Orthography  —  "  Deal "  —  Ancient  Marriage 
Custom— Folk-lore  I  Devil's  Dam,  6— Balegh's  Signature 
—Topographical  Error,  t. 

QUERIES  :-GoM  Florin,  7— Elegy  imiUtIng  Gray's— Long 

—  Asbeton— Auterac  —  Mrs.  Evbrett  Oreen  — Source  of 
Quotations— Daisy-Names-Cowper  FAnaily- king,  Trans^ 
lator.  8  — "Saranlne"  — Three  Estate  in  Parliament- 
Acacia  in  Freemawnry—*' Kitty- witch  "-Irish  Wills- 
Area  of  Churchyards -Owen  of  Lanark,  0. 

BBPLIBS:— "Shimmozzel,"  10  — Skulls  at  Westminster- 
Detached  Sheet,  11— "English-speaking"- Healing  Stone 
—Latin  Motto  — Latin  Lines- Ytfomanry  Records- Lamb 
and  the  *Cbampion' —  Petition  to  Parliament,  13  — 
Angier,  Anger,  or  Aungier  Family-"  five  o'clock  tea  "— 
••Hawok"— Lincoln's  Inn  Fields— "  Musha,"  13~Movable 
Stocks— Camden  Ancestry- Rechabites,  14— "Wig"— Bun 

—  English  Accent  v.  Etymology  —  Counting  Another's 
Buttons- St.  Hugh's  Day— Columbaria  — Sir  J  Borlase 
Warren,  Bart.- '^Dude,"  1»-Early  Steam  Navigation- 
••  Owl  in  Ivy  bush  "—Simon  Fraser,  IH— Qurnev  Papers— 
Grindlefrvd  Bridge  —  "  Combination  "—Age  of  Entry  at 
Inns  of  Court— Scanty  Wedding  Dress,  17-Troy  Weight 
for  Bread— Mile  End  Pottery- Col.  Moorhouse— "  Viva  " 
—Nursery  Rlmea— ''To  keech,"  18-*  Wedded,'  19. 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS  t-Headley's  'Problems of  Evolution' 
—Burke's  •  Peerage  and  Baronetage '— *  Debrett's  Peerage ' 
— *  Whitaker's  Almanack  '^*  Englishwoman's  Year-Book.' 

Nodoea  to  Correspondents. 


DARCY  LEVER. 

Philip  Kent,  being  a  great-grandson  of 
Darcy  Lever,  the  last  lineal  male  represen- 
tative of  the  main  line  of  the  Levers  of 
Alkrington  Hall,  Lancashire  (whose  eldest 
daushter,  Mary  Isabella  Lever,  married, 
thiraly,  a  son  of  Dr.  Edward  Nares,  the  anony- 
mous author  of  *  Thinks  I  to  Myself),  and 
heioe  acquainted  with  certain  incidents  in 
the  Uvea  of  Darcy  Lever  and  Dr.  Edward 
Nare5s,  touching  whom  inquiries  have  been 
made  either  in  *  N.  &  Q.'  or  elsewhere,  holds 
the  pen  to  narrate  those  incidents  to  the 
best  of  his  knowledge  and  ability,  hoping 
and  rather  expecting  that  they  wOl  interest 
the  reader. 

Darcy  Lever,  whose  work  on  seamanship 
long  held  its  own  as  the  standard  work  on 
that  art,  and  is  still  quoted  as  an  authority 
in  more  modern  books  on  seamanship,  was 
the  elder  son  of  John  Lever,  clerk  in  holy 
orders  and  nephew  of  Sir  Ashton  Lever, 
Knt.,  the  founder  of  that  Leverian  museum 
which  we  read  of  in  White's  *  Historjr  of  Sel- 
bome,'  and  in  the  foot-notes  of  Sir  John 
Hawkins  appended  to  his  edition  of  Walton's 
*  Angler.'  oir  Ashton  owned  broad  aci^es  at 
Qraat  Lever,  Little  Lever,  Daroy  Lever, 


Middleton— the  burial-place  of  the  family-^ 
and  in  other  parishes  near  Manchester,  and 
drew  from  them  at  one  time  an  income  of 
30,000/.  a  year.  The  family  pedigree  that 
hung  in  the  hall  at  Alkrington»  and  was  re- 
printed in  the  third  volume  of  Baines's  '  His- 
tory of  Lancashire,'  carries  the  line  back  to  a 
Baron  de  Lever  in  the  reign  of  the  Conqueror, 
and  is  for  that  very  reason  open  to  the 
gravest  suspicion.  Nor  does  it  appear  that 
any  member  of  the  race  in  any  way  distin- 
guished himself  as  did  brave  John  Philpott, 
the  pirate-queller,  the  great  forefather  ot  the 
Philpotts,  whose  name  still  lives  in  Philpot 
Lane,  E  C.  One  Lever,  however,  did  marry 
a  Miss  Bvron  of  Rochdale,  which  may  be 
deemed  a  kind  of  distinction,  at  least  by  the 
admirers  of  'Childe  Harold'  and  *The  Giaour.* 
Sir  Ashton  set  his  heart  on  collecting  all 
sorts  of  strange  birds  and  beasts  from  all 
quarters  of  the  globe  and  enshrining  them 
at  Alkrington  HalL  now  the  Bishop  of  Man- 
chester's palace.  His  hobby  cost  him  so  dear 
that,  what  with  selling  and  mortgaging  his 
land,  his  net  income  at  the  close  of  his  life  in 
1786  did  not  exceed  3,000/.  a  year.  He  died 
suddenly.  Having  quarrel!^  with  his 
nephew  Darcy,  and  by  his  will  entailed  the 
wreck  of  his  fortune  on  his  younger  nephew 
for  life,  with  remainder  to  Darcy  for  life, 
he  relented  in  Darcy 's  favour  and  sent  for 
him.  The  young  man  sped  to  Alkrington  ; 
but  as  he  entered  the  room  in  which  Sir  Ash- 
ton awaited  him,  the  old  man,  rising  from 
his  chair,  fell  to  the  ground  and  breathed 
his  last.  The  old  will  took  effect,  and  Darcy 
had  to  wait  twelve  years  before  the  death  of 
his  ten -years-younger  brother  John  brought 
him  his  3,000/.  a  year  for  life.  On  his  death 
in  1840  the  land  passed  under  the  entail  to  a 
distant  kinsman  named  Bradshaw,  who  sold 
the  Hall  to  the  Ecclesiastical  Commissioners 
for  the  housing  of  the  then  new  bishop. 

As  the  manner  of  the  birth  of  any 
thoroughly  good  and  sterling  work  is  a 
matter  of  literary  interest,  be  it  added  that 
Lever's  *  Seamanship '  was  the  fruit  of  actual 
experience  before  the  mast.  After  the  breach 
with  his  uncle,  and  a  freezing  failure  on  tho 
stage  of  the  Manchester  theatre,  he  took  a 
berth  as  an  able  seaman  aboard  a  merchant- 
man bound  from  Liverpool  to  Calcutta,  and 
performed  the  outward  and  homeward 
voyage  twice;  so  that  he  did  not  write  his 
*  Seamanship '  as  a  bookish  landsman  '*  all  at 
sea  "  when  on  the  ocean  wave. 

The  book,  which  is  profusely  illustrated 
with  steel  e^jgravings  of  ships  and  their 
tackle,  including  an  elaborate  chapter  on 
knots  of  every  kindj  with,  pl«Aj^^  Vi  xaaiwJti^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9**'  s.  vii.  jan.  f,.  1901. 


cost  him  upwards  of  l,GOO^.j  small  part  of 
tvhich  ever  found  its  way  back  into  his 
purse.  But  he  always  felt  justly  proud  of 
his  handiwork.  It  is  said  by  his  descendants 
that — except  as  an  actor^  when  he  was  fairly 
hooted  off  the  stage— he  never  failed  in 
aught  he  undertook  :  and  he  played  the  flute 
so  skilfully  that  Nicholson,  the  flautist  of  the 
day,  was  glad  to  play  duets  with  him.  Ho 
was  also  intimate  with  the  elder  Charles 
Mathews. 

He  married  a  Miss  Murgatroyd,  with  a 
fortune  of  20,000^.  invested  in  the  sliares  of 
the  Aire  and  Calder  Navigation  Company, 
made  descendible  as  land  by  Act  of  Parlia- 
ment, as  the  writer  of  these  lines  knows  to 
his  advantage;  for  thus  a  part  of  Miss  Mur- 
gatroyd's  20,000/.  eventually  found  its  way 
into  his  pocket. 

He  grieves  to  say  that  his  great-grandfather 
eyed  the  family  pedigree  with  deep  distrust, 
and  would  ''poke  fun"  at  it  across  the  walnuts 
and  the  wine.  The  Lever  crest  is  a  cock 
perched  on  a  trumpet  and  crow^ing  to-  salute 
the  rising  sun— a  pun  on  the  name  {lever). 
Darcy  Lever  affirmed,  over  his  cups,  that  the 
cock  should  have  been  a  goose,  because  the 
founder  of  the  family,  a  nameless  vagabond, 
stole  a  goose  from  a  common  and  was  caught 
in  the  act  by  her  owner,  who  gave  chase, 
shouting,  "Leave  'or  1  Leave  'er !"  whence 
his  surname  and  that  of  his  posterity. 

The  novelist  Charles  Lever  claimed  kin- 
ship with  the  Alkrington  Levers ;  but  they 
proudly  rejected  his  claim— Heaven  knows 
why— and  there  is  no  trace  of  his  name  or 
ancestors  in  the  pedigree,  which  is  remark- 
ably meagre.  A  Mr.  John  Orrel  Lever  went 
80  far  as  to  claim  descent  from  Sir  Ash  ton, 
who,  though  married,  died  without  issue,  as 
we  have  seen. 

John  Lever  died  without  issue,  and  Darcy 
outlived  both  his  sons,  the  elder  of  whom. 
John,  a  midshipman  in  the  navv,  wasdrownea 
off  Cadiz  during  the  Peninsular  War.  The 
younger,  too,  named  Darcy,  died  young, 
coslebs  et  sine  prole. 

Mrs.  Lever,  born  Murgatroyd,  held  the 
motherly  rein  so  tight  that  two  of  her 
daughters  ran  away  from  her  as  soon  as  they 
had  a  chance.  The  eldest,  Manr  Isabella, 
ran  away  with  the  solicitor  son  of  a  wealthy 
hop -dealer  named  Springett,  of  Finchcox, 
near  Goudhurst  in  Kent,  and,  in  wedlock, 
bore  him  two  children  :  a  son  who  married, 
but  whose  posterity  is  extinct,  and  a  daughter 
named  Stephana,  who  in  1837  married  John 
Clarke  Kent,  only  son  of  Benjamin  Goolden 
Kent,  of  Levant  Lodge,  Worcestershire.  Mary 
Jsftbella  Springett  (born  Lever)  married,  aiter 


her  first  husbands  deatli,  Major  Austen, 
of  Taywell,  Kent,  and,  when  again  left  a 
widow,  Lieut.  George  Adams  Nares,  a  son  of 
Dr.  Edward  Nares,  rector  of  Biddenden, 
Kent,  and  sometime  Professor  of  Modern 
History  in  the  University  of  Oxford.  He 
wrote,  as  every  reader  of  Macaulay's  *  Essays' 
knows  full  well,  that  *  History  of  Burleigh 
and    his    Times'  which    weighed    so    many 

Sounds    avoirdupois    in    Macaulay's    scales* 
[e  also  wrote— it  is  an  open  secret  now — 
'Thinks  I   to   Myself,'  and    a    book    called 

*  Heraldic  Anomalies.'  He  was  a  son  of 
Mr.  Justice  Nares,  a  puisne  judge  of  the 
old  Court  of  Common  Pleas,  who  had  two 
other  somewhat  distinguished  sons :  one. 
Archdeacon  Nares,  author  of  the  well-known 

*  Glossary  of  Old  English  Words  and  Phrases' 
that  bears  his  name ;  the  other  that  doctor 
of  music  whose  anthems  are  sometimes  still 
heard  in  our  churches  and  college  chapels. 
But  Dr.  Edward  Nares  enjoys  the  unusual 
distinction  of  having  been,  before  his  second 
marriage  with  a  Miss  Aaams,  the  hero  of  a 
little  tale  of  true  love  that  Macaulay  little 
dreamed  of  when  he  laushed  at  the  heaviness 
of  the  doctor's  style.  The  tale  is  brief  and 
will  bear  telling.  When  first  ordained  Ed- 
ward Nares  took  a  curacy  near  Woodstock, 
and  visited  the  then  Duke  of  Marlborough 
and  his  household  at  Blenheim  Palace.  One 
of  the  duke's  daughters^  Lady  Charlotte 
Spencer  Churchill,  fell  m  love  with  the 
young  curate,  who  shortly  afterwards  traus' 
ferred  himself  to  the  curacy  of  Hendon, 
Middlesex,  then  a  sweetly  pretty  country 
village,  far  from  the  smoke  and  din  of  the 
ever- waxing  leviathan,  London.  One  day, 
as  Mr.  Nares  returnea  from  his  afternoon 
walk,  his  landlady  met  him  at  the  door  of 
his  lodgings  and  told  him  with  an  air  of 
mysterj;  that  a  lady  was  waiting  for  him  in 
his  sitting-room.  In  he  walked,  and  there 
sat  Lady  Charlotte.  The  duke  wisely 
hastened  the  marriage  now  inevitable ;  and 
the  bride's  fortune  of  20,000^.  was,  of  course, 
settled  on  herself  for  life,  and,  subject  to  her 
husband's  life-interest  should  he  survive  her, 
on  the  children  born  to  them.  There  was 
but  one,  a  girl,  who  afterwards  married  her 
cousin.  Lord  Henry  Spencer  Churchill,  and, 
after  his  death,  Mr.  Whately,  Q.C.,  some- 
time leader  of  the  Oxford  Circuit,  till  Mr. 
Huddleston  **  pushed  him  from  his  stool,"  and 

rr  old  Mr.  Whately  travelled  the  circuit 
formerly  led  without  receiving  even  a 
single  brief.  Such  are  the  chances  and 
changes  of  life  at  the  Bar. 

Another   of  Darcy   Lever's   daughters  — 
Bessie,  the  beauty  of  a  bevy  of  beaatifol 


9^avn.jAK.5,i9oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


■iaters— ran  away  with  a  private  Jioldier 
named  Hendrik,  and  soon  died  of  a  broken 
h^rt^  leaving  one  little  daughter— sole  off- 
spring of  the  unhappy  marriage— to  the  care 
of  the  chikFa  maternal  kiusfolk,  who  reared 
her  gentler  and  married  her  to  an  Anglican 
clergyman  named  Simpson,  sometime  rector 
or  yicar  o!  a  gmall  parish  in  Yorkshira  Tlie 
writer  of  the^e  lines  knows  nothing  of  the 
fat«  of  the  children  of  this  marriage. 

Darcy  Lever's  youngest  daughter  Dorothy 
married  a  Mr.  Goldie,  of  Edinburgh,  Writer 
to  the  Signet- a  sounding  "addition,"  equiva- 
lent to  Southron  "solicitor";  and  on  her 
father'a  death  in  1840  t^me  in  for  all  he  had 
to  leave— his  cash  and  goods  and  chattels, 
including  tho  pedigree  that  hung  conspicuous 
in  the  entrance  hall  of  the  mansion.  The 
•ole  child  of  this  marriage  became  the  wife 
of  a  capUin  in  the  army  named  Scott^  who 
tacked  his  fatlier-in-law*^  surname  to  his 
own,  and  thenceforth  figured  as  Capt.  Goldie- 
Scott  or  8eott-Goldie,  now  deceased.  Whether 
there  was  issue  born  of  this  marriage  i^ 
beyond  the  writer's  ken.  But  such  issue,  if 
»ny,  TOu&t  evidently  rank  equally  with  the 
d^cendants  of  Bessie  and  of  Mary  laabella 
as  living  representotives  of  the  last  of  the 
Levers  of  Alkriiij^ton*  unless  indeed  the 
sovereign  (the  fountain  of  honour)  should 
§ee  fit  to  choose  one  of  them  to  take  pre- 
oedence  of  the  re^t— a  contingency  which 
may  safely  be  neglected. 

The  chief  living  representatives  of  Darcy 
Lever  through  his  eldest  daughter  Mary 
iHabella^  bom  Lever,  but  auccessively 
Springeit,  Austeni  Narea,  by  marriaga  are 
Fhiltp  Kent,  eldest  aon  of  John  Clarke  Kent, 
who  married  Mary  Isabella,  Lever's  only 
daughter,  Stephana  Klizabeth  Springett ; 
Philip  Kent's  sole  surviving  child,  John 
Philip  Lever  Kent ;  and  J,  P.  L  Kent*s  only 
Mill— as  yet  —  familiarly  known  as  "little 
JackJ* 

Ernes tf  the  only  other  surviving  son  of 
John  Clarke  Kent,  has  surviring  issue: 
Charles  Kent,  and  divers  daughters  by  his 
wife  Marj\  eldest  daughter  of  the  late  Itichartl 
lAwson,  rector  of  l^pton-on-Severn^  who 
married  a  Miss  Malcolm,  niece  of  the  well- 
known  voluminous  writer  Sir  John  Malcolm. 

Thesse  Kents  seem  tcj  be  in  no  wise  akin 
to  their  namesakes  of  Eaat  Anglia,  whose 
arina  they  bear  Their  origin  is  Welsh, 
and  their  true  name  Gwent,  reminiscent  of 
John  of  G went.  They  intermarried  with  the 
Pembrokeshire  Perrofj^  and  in  that  respect 
claim  kindred  with  Jane  Austen,  the  novelist^ 
who  had  Per  rot  blood  in  her  veins»  and  wha^se 
f(fcr-4waj^  oouaiD,  Major  Auutpn,  of  Taywell^  j 


married  Darcy  Lever's  eldest  daughter,  who 
finally  exchanged  the  name  of  Austen  for 
Nares. 

The  Captain  Kares,  R.N.—afterwarda  Sir 
Georije— of  Arctic  voyage  renown,  is  a  scion 
of  this  Narea  family.  Whether  he  sprang 
from  the  loins  of  .\ir-  Justice  Nares  through 
the  archdeacon,  or  through  the  doctor  of 
music,  cyf  that  name,  "  this  deponent"  cannot 
say*  but  the  reader  who  cares  to  know  roay 
easily  ascertain,    ^'oji  omma  p^Bntmiis  owiwej. 

Nor  is  this  the  place  to  npeak  of  the  East 
Anglian  Ken t»— genuine  Kents— not  Owenta 
innocently  mistaking  themselves,  and  mis- 
taken even  by  the  College  of  Heralds  for 
such,  but  true  Kents,  and  lieaded  in  the  ta^t 
generation  by  Sir  Charles  Eggleton  Kent,  who 
had  a  seat  in  Norfolk.  See  the  *  Baronetcy.' 
The  writer  of  these  Unas,  a  true  Gwent,  albeit 
with  Lever  and  Perrot  and  other  blood  to 
boot  in  his  veins,  wishes  to  give  to  all  their 
due  and  to  have  his  own,  but  not  to  deck 
himself  with  plumes  that  don't  belong  to 
him.  It  was  not  hia  fault*  but  rather  the 
Heralds',  that  the  lion  coupe  and  rampant  of 
the  Eant  Anglian  Kents  stands  coupe  and 
rampant  on  his  sole  surviving  silver  spoon, 
wherewith  he  stirs  the  tea  that  inspires  this 
drvapation,  which  might  be  lengthened  almost 
ad  hUlum.  But  one  must  consult  the  reader'i 
lihitHm^  and  enough  is  ba  good  as  a  fea^t. 

Philip  Kknt, 


SCHOOL-TEACHERS  IN  KENT.  irS-ieia 

The  following  extracts  are  from  the  volumea 
in  the   Cathedral    Library    at    Canterbury 

relating  to  the  Visitations  of  the  Archdeacona 
of  Canterbury, 
St  JohnVin-Thanet  (Margate).— 

liiSO,  "  We  present  that  Thomas  Deale  suffereth 
in  Kifl  hotjie  a  school nmstar  t<i  teach,  and  at«o  being 
a  vtctualer  auffereth  htm  to  remain  in  hit  house, 
and  not  fr^itient  divine  service  on  the  sabboth 
dav."— Fol.  m,  1577*85. 

1591.  ^'  John  AUo|H^  for  teac^hinR  without  lireiiBe 
in  thfs  church  of  ^t.  John's."— FoL  «a  l5«4-95. 

lillM,  "  Th^t  otje  Mr*  Johnson  teacheth  children 
And  kcetwjth  J*cbool  in  the  said  imrish,  having  no 
license  in  that  behalf."— Fol  IGl,  In8l  SKJ. 

1608.  "  That  iliere  ir  one  t«acheth  in  the  ^mrish 
upon  request  made  to  him,  but  not  meaninsr  to  con* 
linue  his  teach ing«  unless  he  obtain  Licensa  from  the 
Or*linar>%'*-Fol.  119,  ItiOl-a 

The  following  weems  to  show  that  the 
children  wore  taught  in  the  church  : — 

1599.  "  ^^a^|fa^et  Cates^  the ^ife  of  Charles  Cateit 
for  a  ratler  and  ftcoldcr,  coming  into  the  church  and 
miiiuiiing  the  schoolmaster,  in  evil  words  and  throw- 
ins  a  stone  at  him  in  the  church  fttnon^t  the 
cl|il4rei|," 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [e««  s.  vii.  jak.  a,  looi. 


St.  Peter's-in-Thanefc.— 

1618.  **  Francis  Warde  for  teaching  Rchool  in  the 
parish  abovesaid  without  license."— Vol.  for  1617-19, 
fol.  98. 

On  30  May,  1618,  "  A  marriage  license  was  granted 
to  Francis  Warde,  of  St.  Peter's  in  Thanet,  school- 
master; and  Mary  Copnin  of  St.  Lawrence  in 
Thanet.  To  marry  at  St.  Peter's."— Canterbury 
Marriap:e  Licenses,  i.  435. 

St.  Lawrence-in-Thanet  (Ramsgate). — 
1578.  "  That  John  Duckett  doth  teach  children  in 
our  parish  without  license."— Fol.  5,  1577-85. 

1612.  **  Lewis  Rogers  for  teaching  in  our  parish, 
being  neither  allowed  by  the  Ordinary,  nor  having 
the  consent  of  our  Minister  and  Vicar  thereunto, 
contrary  to  the  Statute  in  the  case  provided, 
whereby  both  our  children  are  rudely  and  igno- 
rantly  instructed,  and  our  Minister  his  small  means 
of  maintenance  amongst  us  deducted.  We  desire 
he  may  desist  upon  pain  to  answer  for  his  pre- 
sumption."—Fol.  57,  1610-17. 

1613.  **We  present  Lewis  Rogers  of  the  same 
parish  of  St.  Lawrence,  schoolmaster,  for  a  common 
ale-house  haunter  and  gamester.  "—Fol.  109. 1610-17. 

1615.  '*  We  have  one  Bartholomew  Martingale,  a 
schoolmaster  sometime,  that  hath  stood  excom- 
municate a  quarter  of  a  year  at  least."- Fol.  216, 
1610-17. 

Hothfield  (Charing  Deanery).— 

1596.  **  We  have  a  poor  man  who  hath  taught  a 
small  time  who  is  not  licensed.  He  hath  X)romised 
to  provide  a  license  before  the  next  court  day ;  if 
he  do  not,  we  will  and  do  present  him  ;  his  name  is 
Mr.  Thomas. "-Fol.  12. 

1507.  "  That  John  Gibson's  wife  teacheth  without 
a  license." 

On  8  Feb.,   1596/7,  she   appeared  in  court 
and  stated  "that  she  teachetn  none  but  some 
few  children  to  knit  and  sew  "  (fol.  18,  vol. 
for  1596-1600,  Charing  Deanerj^. 
Reculver. — 

1619.  "  We  answer  to  the  38,  James  Peircy  doth 
teach  without  allowance  for  ought  we  know  and  is 
sometimes  of  sober  conversation." 

On  3  November  he  appeared  in  the  arch- 
deacon's court  and  confessed  "  that  his  wife 
by  the  minister's  consent  teacheth  two  or 
three  children  their  horn -books,  but  he 
teacheth  none  himself"  (vol.  1619-21,  fol.  11). 
Akthur  Hussey. 
Tankerton-on-Sea,  Kent. 


The  Dan  aids.— For  many  years  I  have 
been  puzzled  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  curious 
myth  of  the  Danaids.  I  felt  sure  it  must  be 
a  nature  myth,  but  what  it  was  I  could  not 
conjecture.  After  I  had  written  my  note  on 
'Nature  Myths'  (9'*»  S.  vi.  441),  light  at  last 
came  from  an  unexpected  source.  On  p.  950 
of  Roscher's  *Mythologie'  I  found  an  en- 
graving from  an  archaic  vase  now  at  Munich 
representing  several  of  the  Danaids  pouring 
yr^ter  into  a  vessel.    Tb}a  is  followed  qn  tbe 


next  page  by  an  engraving  of  a  relief  in  the 
Vatican  which  represents  the  same  subject, 
the  amphora  being  evidently  the  source  of  a 
stream.  Hence  the  Danaids  must  denote 
water-carriers  or  conveyers  of  water  of  some 
kind.  But  what?  I  found  that  Preller,  in 
his  *Griechische  My thologie,' describes  them 
as  "  Quellennymphen."  Let  us  first  see  what 
the  myth  tells  us.  We  learn  that  Danaus 
and  i^jgyptus  were  brothers,  grandsons  of 
Poseidon  and  Libya.  The  Danaids  were 
the  fifty  daughters  of  Danaus  by  different 
mothers.  They  were  all  wedded  on  the  same 
day  to  the  fifty  sons  of  ^gyptus,  and  with 
one  exception  they  all  slew  their  husbands 
on  the  wedding  night,  each  of  them  being 
supplied  with  a  weapon  for  the  purpose. 
The  Danaids  being  represented  as  water- 
bringers  may  be  explained  as  the  canals  of 
the  Delta,  which  at  the  time  of  the  inunda- 
tion simultaneously  overwhelm  the  lands 
which  embrace  them,  which  are  represented 
by  the  sons  of  i^gyptus.  The  Danaid  who 
did  not  slay  her  bridegroom  would  be  some 
canal  which  does  not  overflow,  such  as  that 
which  supplies  the  Fayoum.  Thus  this  seem- 
ingly repulsive  story  is  not  a  bloody  tragedy, 
but  receives  an  easy  explanation  as  a  nature 
myth.  Another  somewhat  analogous  myth 
may  be  briefly  referred  to,  though  the  ex- 
planation is  not  new.  The  Lapithse  who 
light  with  the  Centaurs  in  the  mountains  of 
Thessaly  wage  war  by  hurling  huge  frag- 
ments of  rock  upon  their  foes.  They  may 
represent  the  mountain  torrents,  which  bring 
down  vast  boulders  as  they  descend  to  the 

Clains,  cont<»nding  with  other  streams  swifter, 
ut  stoneless.  Isaac  Taylor. 

Wine  in  the  Early  Christian  Church. 
—In  that  very  curious  early  Christian 
romance  the  *Acts  of  Xanthippe  and 
Polyxena,'  two  maidens,  Polyxena  and 
Rebecca,  after  parting  with  the  Apostle 
Andrew,  whilst  wandering  into  the  moun- 
tains meet  with  an  ass-driver, 
**  who  seeing  them  said,  *  Ye  are  not  of  thin  country, 
and,  as  I  see,  ye  wear  not  its  dress.  Command 
therefore  of  your  servant  to  eat  bread  and  to  receive 
one  piece  of  silver,  that  ye  may  remember  your 
servant  when  ye  buy  brea^.*  And  he  made  haste 
and  took  the  sacks  off  his  asses  and  spread  them  on 
the  ground  and  made  the  maidens  to  sit  upon  them, 
and  said  to  them,  *  Seeing  that  the  wine  which 
your  servant  carries  is  Greek,  tell  me  of  what  faith 
ye  are,  that  thu^  we  may  taste  of  it*  Polyxena 
said,  '  Wo,  brother,  taste  no  wine,  and  are  of  the 
God  of  Paul.*" 

The  ass-driver  then  tells  them  that  he  had 
been  a  disciple  of  Philip  the  Apostle  of 
Christ,  "and  seeing  how  all  the  thought 
of  his  tefl^cher  w^  toward  the  pqpr,  Jip  bft<} 


9*  8.  vn.  Jan.  6, 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


sold  his  goocia  and  spent  the  produce  !n  dis- 
tributmg  brearl  and  wine  to  the  poor.  He 
h*fl  been  expelled  from  one  of  the  cities  for 
being  a  Chmtian  "  (xxxi  and  xxxii.).  This 
atory  data«,  it  is  believed,  from  the  third  cen- 
tury. Does  the  reply  of  Polyxena  indicate 
that  Christiana  of  those  days  were  abstainprs 
frpmw\n&1  If  jso,  what  h  to  be  said  of  the 
distribution  of  bread  and  wine  to  the  poor  by 
the  disciple  of  Philip!  Are  we  to  re(;^ard 
that  act  afl  well-me«nin{r,  but  uninstructed  ? 
Or  was  abstinence  from  wine  the  custom 
only  of  women!  Or  is  it  mei-ely  to  be 
regarded  as  pei*aonal  to  Polyxena  and  her 
companion  T  The  story  is  not  without  ascetic 
exaggerations  in  its  incidental  references  to 
"  tho  filth  of  marriage"  (xxxi*). 

WiMJAM  K  A,  Axon. 
Hu]eh«tt«r. 

"  GoLLATE."^Thia  verb,  as  a  synonym  of 
th#  somewhat  rare  cottaiifm^ "  to  take  a  slight 
repast/^  appears  at  least  once  in  literature  :— 

"B<?fore  we  ent«r  this  room,  thern  i**  another^ 
where  any  on«  who  pl^oaea  may  cnllate."— lidy 
Potuffi^t  (1741)*  *  Correspooilenpe  between  the 
Countess  of  Hartford  md  the  Countess  of  Potijfnst ' 
(laOSJ,  voL  ii,  p,  304. 

Here  we  have  a  back-formation,  as  in 
burgle^  edit,  greed,  jell,  jeopard,  Thomaa  Fuller's 
pillor.  and  the  American  nasi.  F.  H. 

Maries  ford 

Ait  Adulterate  Qpotatiok.— Coleridp:e, 
in  Sou  they 's  ^Omniana'  flBlSX  vol  li.  p.  17, 

has,  "Low  cTinninpj,  habitual   cunidity. 

mltdonmniie  the  human  face."  Henry  Nel- 
Ron  Coleridge,  editing  his  uncle's  *  Literary 
Remains'  (1836-3X  substitutes  coaT»fm  for 
tho  word  orijfinally  used  and  emphasized  by 
italics;  and  the  *  Oxford  Dictionary/  under 
*Coftr8€Ji/  is  misled  by  his  soph  iiti  eat  ion. 
Rather  frequent  are  the  proofs  that  he  did 
not  labour  under  hypertrophy  of  literarj' 
GOfiBctence.  CcUed&nmnhe  naust  wait  till  the 
*  Dictionary '  is  followed  by  a  supplement. 

F.  H. 
Marl^ard, 

"R0STlcNESS.""Tt  is,  perhaps,  not  quite  fair 
to  an  author  to  judge  him  by  the  report  of  his 
Qtt#ranee«  passed  through  the  medium  of  a 
shorthand  note-taker  We  regularly  do  it, 
of  eourwe,  in  reference  to  statesmen  and  others 
in  public  position  who^ie  opinions  and  actions 
are  being  constantly  submittefl  through  the 
presfi  for  con  sid  e  ra  tion  and  d  hen  ssion .  He  re, 
however,  while  the  general  tenor  of  a  given 
deliverance  or  the  bearin$^  of  a  line  of  action 
may  be  regarded  as  definitely  expressed  and 
finalty  ascertained,  the  details  are  necessarily, 
Mul  quite  properly,  left  in  abeyance.    We  do 


not  hold  a  speaker  to  the  minuiiw  of  bis 
diction  or  the  hy^pothesea  underlying  any 
particular  conclusion  he  has  reached  till  he 
has  supervised  the  report  of  opinion  or  state- 
men  t  a  n  d  san  c  ti  goed  i  ts  a  p  pearan  ce.  Carly  le 
did  not  himself  superintend  the  publication 
of  his  lectures— defive red  in  London  about 
1637— on  the  *  History  of  European  Literature 
and  Culture,^  and  both  he  and  his  biographers 
thought  they  had  served  their  immediate 
purpose  and  then  been  finally  departed  from* 
But  they  were  found,  apparently  well  re- 
ported, among  the  papers  left  at  his  death, 
hj  one  of  Carlyle's  auditors,  and  they  were 
published  in  1892  by  Messrs,  Cur  wen,  fcane  h 
Co.,  Bombay,  Speaking  of  John  Knox,  one 
of  hifi  favourite  heroes,  Carlyle  is  represented, 
at  p.  145  of  this  work,  as  mentioning  the 
"natural  rusticness"  of  the  Reformer,  of 
whom  he  says  other  inevitable  and  charac- 
teristic things.  "Rusticness,"  rather  than 
"rusticity,"  is  probably  what  occurred  to 
the  lecturer  in  the  press  of  the  moment, 
speaking  as  he  did  from  notes  and  not  from 
manuscript.  Thomas  Bayke. 

Two  OF  A  Name  in  One  Family,— As  there 
have  been  several  instances  of  this  in 
*  N.  *k  Q.*  of  late  from  registers,  itc,  perhaps 
the  following  contemporary  instance^  which 
has  iust  met  my  eye,  may  be  worth  recording. 
In  the  Standard  of  10  Sept,  1900.  is  a  notice  of 
an  inquest  at  Ton  bridge  on  a  father  and  three 
daughters  who  were  burnt  to  death  in  that 
town.  The  names  of  the  two  elder  daughters 
were  Hilda  Jessie  Tattam,  aged  sixteen,  and 
Hilda  Georgian  a  Tattam,  aged  tw^elve. 

W,  R,  Tatb. 

WatiKile  Vicarajf©,  Haleswortla. 

"  A  STILL  SMALL  VOICE,"    1  KlNGS  XIX.  IS.— 

Tt  does  not  say  much  for  knowledge  of  the 
Bible  in  our  days  that  a  bmik  is  in  its 
"twenty-ninth  thousand  in  England  and 
America,"  in  which  the  errafuw*  in  the  passage 
which  follows  remains  uncorrected  i  — 

**  When  Mo^ts  was  on  the  mountain  it  waa  after 
the  variouB  physical  csointnotionsiLnd  Trtanifestations 
thut  he  heard  tha  'KtlU  nm&lL  voice,^  the  vfiice  of 
hia  ^wn  rouI  through  which  the  in^uU^  Gfid  waa 
«p©akinK-"— *  la  Tanewilh  the  Intinite^*  p.  lOfi,  by 
Ralph  Waldo  Trine  (London,  George  Bell  k  ^uns, 

J9QQV 

R,  M.  Spkkce,  D.D. 
Manse  of  Arbutbnott,  N.B. 

Scottish  Dance.  (See  9^  S.  vi.  404,)— In  ail 
probability  the  dance  mentioneff  by  W.  C,  B. 
which  he  f^aw  at  Hull  wa.^  the  Highland 
dance  called  **Ghillie  Galium,''  a  favourite 
competitive  dance  at  clan  gatherings:).  It  is 
one  difficult  of  executioii^  a^  tW^^  BiX%  m^  ^ 


6 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9«>»  s.  vii.  jaJt.  5.  looi. 


be  thirteen  steps  in  it,  and  the  object  is  to  I 
dance  in  such  a  manner  on  the  boards  of  a 
raised  stage  as  not  to  touch  the  crossed  broad- 
swords. John  Pickfobd,  M.A. 
Newbourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

American  Orthography.— Americans  may 
spell  in  English  as  they  feel  disposed,  but  one 
cannot  but  wince  at  the  mess  they  have  made 
of  Mr.  John  Morley's  orthography  in  his 
*  Oliver  Cromwell.'  Here  are  a  few  examples : 
Counselor^  marvelous^  offtnUy  mold^  center^ 
luster^  icepter^  manoeuver, 

Herbert  Maxwell 

*'  Deal."— Having  occasion  to  look^for  this 
word  in  the  *H.E.D.,'  I  was  surprised  and 
disappointed  to  find  the  following  under  it 

(vol.  iii.  p.  66,  col.  1):  **3.  Cards t  a  single 

round  or  ^amo  marked  by  one  distribution  of 
the  cards,  obg,)"  Surely  this  exhibits  a  re- 
markable want  of  technical  knowledge  in  the 
person  responsible  for  this  statement,  as  well 
as  a  deficiency  in  research.  I  refer  to  classing 
this  meaning  of  the  term  as  obsolete.  The 
application  of  the  word  deal  in  its  wider 
sense,  as  above,  is  of  daily  occurrence  wher- 
ever cards  are  played  and  English  spoken. 
And  it  is  so  employed  properly.  What  other 
word  extant  is  better  or  more  significant  for 
the  purpose?  /fane?  is  frequently  substituted, 
but  it  is  not  nearly  so  good  a  term.  Games 
occur  in  which  there  is  no  "hand  **  (2)  at  all, 
but  there  is  always  a  *'  dealing  "  of  some  kind  ; 
and  in  some  games  there  are  several  hands 
dealt  at  different  times  in  the  one  "deal "  (ii.). 
Handy  besides,  is  confusing— it  is  applied  in 
so  many  senses  :  (1)  The  part  of  the  limbs 
holding  and  playing  the  cards,  (2)  the  cards 
held,  (3)  the  player  holding  the  cards,  (4)  the 
plav  of  the  cards,  and  (5)  the  direction  of 
right-hand  and  left-hand.  Deal  has  only  the 
two  senses  in  a  card  game  :  (i.)  the  dealing, 
(ii.)  the  whole  procedure  and  play  connected 
with  the  distribution  (as  above) ;  and  if  in 
the  description,  &c.y  it  be  restricted  to  the 
larger  sense,  and  dealing  to  the  contracted 
sense,  there  will  be  no  misunderstanding. 
(See  Cavendish's  *  Piquet,*  8th  ed.,  1892,  p.  2, 
heading.)  To  give  authoritative  examples  of 
its  current  use,  Law  69  of  the  present  code 
(1864)  of  whist  majr  bo  referred  to,  in  which, 
"should  they  decide  that  the  deal  stands 
good."  the  reference  to  sense  (ii.)  is  unmis- 
takable ;  and  likewise  in  the  corresponding 
Law  84  of  the  later  bridge  code  (1895). 
Again,  in  the  revised  code  of  piquet  (1881-2) 
in  Law  71  (besides  a  dozen  other  similar 
instances  in  the  same  code  of  laws) :  "  The 

Cirtie  is  won  by  the  player  who  makes  the 
Pfhest  scQre  in  six  deals.^    A  placer  ci^nnpt 


score  in  the  dealing  (i.) ;  he  scores  during  the 
deal  (ii.).  It  is  understood  that  the  late  Henry 
Jones  ("Cavendish")  was  the  draftsman  of 
these  the  awjcepted  laws  of  piquet  (which 
critics  consider  a  much  better  drawn-up  code 
than  the  whist  code),  and  there  was  no  higher 
authority  in  the  kingdom  than  himself  on  all 
the  details  relating  to  whist  and  piquet,  as 
well  as  some  other  games.  He  was  a  roost 
particular  and  correct  writer,  and  in  *  N.  ck  Q.,* 
0^  S.  vi.  447,  he  contributed  an  article  upon 
the  misuse  of  terras  in  card  games.  This  is 
a  case  in  which  a  new  and  expressive  word 
for  havid  (4)  and  deal  (ii.)  is  much  wanted. 

J.  S.  McTear. 

Ancient  Marriage  Custom  in  North- 
UBfBERLAND. — Tho  following  custom  is  still 
observed  at  Holy  Island  (or  Lindisfarne)  and 
Baraburgh,  and  at  Kyloe  and  Belford  it  only 
died  out  in  recent  times.  After  a  marriage 
service  has  been  performed,  the  couple  pass 
out  through  the  churchyard,  and  the  bride 
is  jumped  or  lifted  over  a  stone.  The 
ceremony  is  believed  to  confer  good  luck. 
The  stone  is  called  the  "  petting  stone,"  and 
should  stand  at  the  entrance  to  the  church- 
yard ;  but  whereas  at  Bamburgh,  though 
still  called  the  petting  stone,  it  is  now  a  low 
stool  which  is  placed  at  that  point  for  the 
occasion,  at  St.  Mary's,  Holy  Island,  the  old 
petting  stone  has  been  moved  from  the  en- 
trance to  a  position  near  tho  east  window  of 
the  chancel,  and  the  jumping  is  performed 
there.  The  bride  is  jumped  by  two  selected 
male  friends.  This  stone  is  verjr  ancient, 
having  been  the  socket  of  a  cross  said  to  have 
been  connected  in  some  way  with  St  Ethel- 
wold,  the  Saxon  bishop.  The  above  note  has 
been  furnished  by  a  valued  friend  of  mine 
who  knows  Holy  Island  and  the  Northum- 
brian coast  perhaps  as  well  as  any  one  living. 
I  myself  have  witnessed  this  ceremony.  1 
hope  that  some  correspondent  of  *N.  &  Q.* 
will  be  able  to  give  further  information  on 
the  subject.  Philip  Norman. 

Folk-lore  :  a  Devil's  Dam  in  a  Cossack 
Stanitza.— On  the  eve  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
turjr  it  is  rather  startling  te  come  across 
stories  of  contemporary  demonology  which 
seem  borrowed  from  mediaeval  records.  Such, 
however,  is  the  character  of  an  anecdote 
quoted  by  the  St.  Peteishurg  Police  Gazette  of 
18  November,  O.S.,  from  the  Kazhek  news- 
paper, as  given  below.  The  details  are  not 
very  savoury,  but  the  serious  student  cannot 
afford  to  be  too  squeamish  :— 

"Galiugteva  Stanitza  (village).— On  29  October 
a  rumour  got  abroad  here  that  a  Cossack  widow- 
WPOTOO,  Kozlovtzeyi^  by  m^iqe,  seventy  yenrs  of  ag^ 


»»aviLjAs.8.i90i.j       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


hmd  given  birth  ki  a  devirs  irnp,  exactly  like  the 
porlraitSQfsuchin  iropu  br  i>i  i^  t  u  res,  T  h  is  »t  ran  ge 
Dewsapreaci  like  wildfire  to  ihts  adjoining  villnKi^Si 
uidthe  folk  Mfiiied  it  amon^  theuiHclves  that  the 
old  woman  hail  been  bewitched  (*BpoiU/  aa  they 
terra  it)  thirty  yeara  beforehand  that  the  unclean 
■pirit  TRhJch  p<i*Bea»ed  her  had  been  driven  out  at 
ui«t»  giving  WAV  Ui  a  conrae  ol  various  treatments. 
The  villaj{B  eli^er  (Ataman)  decided  that  a  formal 
protocol  on  the  subject  should  be  dra^Ti  up.  The 
old  wouiftu  was  summoned,  and  upon  being  quea- 
tioned  she  deposed  that  she  had  long  been  ailing, 
fcod  DOW,  after  swalbwifig  a  do&e  of  three  Horta  of 
ine^smG  in  a  miiture,  she  was  taken  ehort  [ineensfl 
19  a»  terrible  as  holy  water  ti>  the  devil  and  his 
ftdjuncta]^  and  jroing  out  into  the  backyard  slio  liad 
a  mottotj*  and  *  dropped'  in  this  unnatural  way 
a  fetus  enclo<ied  io  a  niembrane.  This  she  ahowed 
to  her  son  [above  all  person b  !j,  a  Cossack  of  the 
Sod  Reserve,  He  ripped  open  the  membrane  and 
pulled  out  a  little  five  creature,  like  an  imp  or 
dei<lL  Not  liking  the  look  a  of  such  a  '  brother/  he 
knocked  it  on  the  heaii  and  buried  it.  Women 
aeut  on  his  indications  dug  up  the  newborn  devils 
washed  it,  and  brought  it  to  the  police  station.  On 
in^iiecfion  it  prnv^  to  be  a  queer-iooking  little 
animal  about  the  size  of  a  bat  or  '  Pledermans  * 
with  four  i^tawjt,  a  abort  Uil,  and  a  body  covered  with 
grejiab  haira.  This  '  devil '  was  sealed  up  in  a  jar 
of  spirits  of  wine  and  forwarded  to  the  authorities, 
along  with  the  jirotocol,  tf>  the  Mosdoksky  district, 
for  med  ical  i  n v  eist  iga  t  ion . " 

I  hardly  dat*e  to  breathe  such  an  idea^  but 
mj  pity  ia  for  the  poor  little  devil,  who  was 
scotched  before  he  had  hati  a  fair  trial 
Perhaps  in  the  *'  Zoo "  he  might  have  de* 
veloped  into  something  of  interest, 

H,  E.  M. 

St.  Potenburg. 

Baleoh's  SiGXATtmE.— May  I  add  one  more 
to  the  nuroeroua  noleson  tbia  subjecbl  There 
is  in  thia  library  a  copy  of  Bernarfiino  Rocc-a*s 
'  Discorsi  di  Guerra'  {4to.,  Venic-e,  1582X  bear- 
iog  on  the  title-page  the  signature  W.  Kalegh 
and  in  the  same  writing  the  motto  **  Mtdium 
M^ija*^  ThU  i^  another  piece  of  evidence, 
if  any  were  needed,  in  favour  of  Ralegh  rather 
than  Raleigh  or  any  other  form- 

The  book  also  contain;]  the  si|? nature  of 
George  Carew,  and  h  bound  in  hmp  vellum 
stamped  with  arras,  Or,  three  lions  passant 
sable,  which  I  am  told  are  the  arms  of  the 
Carew  family. 

For  Ralegh's  name  see  7">  S*  i*  252,  396, 
455;  X.  102,  345,  491;  xl  77,  195. 

W.  R,  B.  Prideaxjx, 

Roral  CoU^geof  Phyaiciana,  H.W. 

A  TopooRAPHicAL  Ehror.— It  m  curious 
with  what  peraintency  the  newspapers  con- 
tiiiiie  to  apeak  of  SL  James's  Catholic  Church, 
with  itij  adjacent  prejabytery,  as  fltill  situate 
in  Spanish  Place,  wheixsas  the  present  fine 
buihiing  stand>«.  of  course,  in  George  £5treets 
liarybbone.    The  shell  of  the  former  edifice 


at  the  northern  corner  of  Spanish  Place  for 
years  presented  a  sorry  spectacle.  Few  can 
have  regretted  the  final  disappearance  of  the 

grim  old  walls.    Their  site  is  now  occupied 
y  the  inevitable  block  of  "mansions,'^  of 
which  there  are  many  in  the  parish, 

C£€iL  Clarke. 
Authors'  Club,  S.W. 


Ws  muat  request  correspondents  desiring  infer* 
mation  on  family  matter*  of  only  private  intereat 
to  affix  their  name^  and  addressee  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  anawers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct. 

The  Gold  Florin,— The  origin  of  the  gold 
florin  present.^  a  problem  on  which  further 
light  is  desirable.  O.  Villani  states  that  it 
was  first  issued  in  Florence  in  a.p,  1252,  and 
this  tfeema  to  be  pretty  generally  accepted. 
It  is  accepted,  for  instance,  in  Murray's 
'Dictionary,'  Le  Blanc,  however  {ed*  Amst 
1692,  p,  147),  emphatically  asserts  that  the 
florins  are  much  more  ancient  tlian  Villani 
thought^  and  quotes,  in  proof  of  this*,  a  men- 
tion of  gold  florins  made  in  a  deed  of  gift 
to  a  Confrerie  des  Clercs  at  Pontoise  dated 
MLXvni.  He  quotes  another  authority,  too^ 
which,  however,  is  entitled  to  less  weight. 
Apart  from  these  authorities,  there  seems  to 
be  unmistakable  evidence  of  the  early  exist- 
ence of  the  gold  florin  in  France.  De  Saulcy'a 
collection  of  mint  documents  begins  with 
1180,  and  the  t*econd  of  them  (vol-  i.  p.  115) 
contains  instructions  in  regard  to  the  weight 
and  standard  of  some  whicti  were  then  about 
to  be  issuecL  Tlie  presumption  is  that  if  any 
earlier  mint  docutnents  could  be  found, 
florins  would  be  mentioned  in  them  also. 
They  are  described  as  **  florins  d'or  appele?, 
florences."  That  might  seem  at  first  si^ht 
to  connect  them  with  the  city  of  Ho- 
rence.  The  word  fiorenjci^  however,  is 
currently  used  as  appliefl  to  a  cross  with 
lilies  at  the  end  of  each  Itinb,  such  as  many 
early  French  coins  bear.  There  is  a  difliculty 
in  believing  that  the  Florentine  money  couhi 
have  been  current  throughout  Europe,  and 
copied  by  other  statea,  in  the  twelfth  century 
or  earlier,  as  it  was  in  the  fourteen thj  as 
Florence  was  then  a  comparatively  un- 
important citj;  even  in  Italy  itself.  Borghini, 
too  {*  Discorsi  della  Moneta  Fioi^ntina, 
vol,  iii,  p,  a04X  is  y^t^  emphatic  in  the 
opinion  that  no  gold  was  struck  by  any 
Italian  city  before  1252,  the  striking  or  gtild 
being  then  regai-ded  as  a  prerogative  of  **  the 
great  princes  of  the  world*'*  He  thinks,  at 
the  same  time,  that    the   early    Florentine 


8 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»^  s.  vii.  jan.  5, 1901. 


silver  coins  were  called  "  Fiorini,"  as  the 
Sienuese  were  called  "  Sannesi/'  the  Fm&n 
"Pisani/*  and  so  on.  Nothing,  of  courfie, 
could  be  more  natural  than  that  the  French 
should  have  put  their  Hly  on  their  coins^ 
they  are  known  to  have  used  it  in  their  coat 
of  arms  at  any  rata  as  early  as  1147— and  that 
the  coin  should,  from  the  stamp,  take  the 
name  of  "florin,"  as  the  "moutons,*'  "crowns/^ 
<fec,,  of  later  yeanj  took  their  names  from 
their  stamps^  It  would,  however,  be  a 
mtigular  coincidence  if  the  two  florins  carae 
into  exijatence,  to  begin  with,  without  any 
connexion  with  each  other  Perhapa  some  of 
your  correspondent's  can  throw  some  light  on 
the  matter.    Wiluam  Warrand  Carlile. 

Elegy  miTATrNG  Gray's.— In  the  'Annual 
Anthology '  for  1800  (a  volume  to  which 
Coleridge  made  various  original  contribu- 
tions) there  is  a  poem  entitled  *An  Elegjr, 
written  in  a  London  Churchyard/  It  is  in 
the  same  metre  as  Gray's  elegy,  about  the 
aame  length,  and  gracefully  done.  Can  any 
one  supply  author's  name^  and  aay  if  the  poem 
baa  ever  been  illustrated  1  Replies  direct 
would  oblige.  W,  C  Bketenson. 

T«ddmgtonf  Middlesex* 

Long.— Can  any  one  inform  me  aa  to  the 
name  of  the  mother  of  Constance  Long,  wife 
of  William  Fitzmauriee^  twentieth  Lord  of 
Kerry  ?  Her  father  was  William  Long,  "of  a 
Yorkshire  family/''  Kathleen  W aud. 

Castle  Ward,  Downpiitrick. 

William  Asheton  was  admitted  to  West 
minster  School  on  28  January,  1774,  Can 
anjr  rejwier  of  '  N.  &  Q.'  assist  me  in  obtaining 
information  relating  to  him  1       G.  F,  K.  B. 

Joseph  Auterac  was  admitted  to  West- 
minster School  on  i  June,  1774,  I  shall  be 
glad  to  hear  of  any  further  particulars  con- 
cerning liim,  O,  F,  H,  B- 

The  LATE  Mrs,  M.  A.  Everett  Greejt.— 
Is  not  there  some  error  in  the  parentage  of 
this  lamented  lady  as  given  in  the  '  Diet.  Nat 
Biog/]  Mrs.  Green  is  stated  to  have  been  a 
daughter  of  the  Rev.  Robert  Wood  a  Wesley  an 
minister,  which  Robert  is  said  ty  have 
been  the  younger  son  of  the  Rev,  James  Wood, 
Presbyterian  minister  of  Cbowbent,  in  Lan- 
cashire. This  last  was  a  local  celebrity, 
better  known  as  "  General  Jemmy  Wofjds," 
from  his  leading  a  company  of  volunteers  to 
the  help  of  tlie  Government  in  the  war  with 
the  Pretender  in  1715,  "Generar*  Woodn 
was  born  in  1672  and  died  in  1759);  Mrs. 
Green  was  born  in  1818  and  died  in  1897— the 
three  generations  tbiu  covering  225  years* 


But  surely  an  intermediate*  generation  must 
have  been  omitted.  I  nndernband  that  Mrs, 
Green  herself  succeeded  in  tracing  her 
pedigree  back  to  the  thirteenth  century. 
Has  this  pedigree  been  printed?  It  would 
be  of  some  interest  in  this  locality  (near 
Leigh),  where  so  many  of  her  ancetstors 
flourished,  W,  D.  Fink. 

Lowton,  Newton-le-WiJlowa,  Lancashire* 

SoUKcis  OF  Quotation,—!  should  be  much 
obliged  to  1>6  told  the  source^i  of  the  follow- 
ing quotations.    Their  date  will  not  be  later 
than  the  early  part  of  the  last  century  * 
L  Elood  hfl  had  viewed,  but  then 

It  flowed  in  combat, 

2.  Battle  over,  sleep  in  clover, 

W  ho  so  happy  as  wo  in  camp  ? 

3.  How  hapjjy*s  ttie  soldier  who  Uvea  on  his  pay 
And  Bpeiida  h&tf-a^crown  out  of  sixi>&t]ce  a  day  t 

4.  Thou  ca nit  Dot  name  one  tender  tie 
But  hero  diaaolv'd  ita  relics  lie, 

5.  Beats  the  strong  heart,  the  lesa  the  lips  avow, 
G,  He  died  and  bequeathed  to  his  eon  a  good  naine, 

Which  unspotted  descended  to  me* 
7,  For  he  had  heard  of  battles,  and  he  longed 
To  follow  to  the  field  a  warlike  lord. 

G.  a  M,  B, 

Shemeld, 

[No,  7  is  slightly  altered  from  Homers  'Bonglas/ 
Act  L] 

Daisy-Names,  —  Can    any   on©   give    the 

derivation  of  the  following  local  folk-name« 
for  the  ox-eye  daisy  {Canjsanthamim  hu- 
cantk€m%mi) :  eaten -aroea  (Lancashire),  crazy 
Bets  (Wiltshir^X  Dutch  Morgan  (lale  of 
Wight)?  M£<;AJf. 

CoT^^TEE  Family.— In  the  *  Heralda'  Visita- 
tion of  Berkshire  of  1623'  it  is  recorded  that 
Sylvester  Cow  per,  of  Bray,  Berks,  married 
Marj*,  daughter  of  John  Norriij,  of  Braj, 
and  that  their  children  William,  Noma, 
Francis,  Mary,  and  Elizabeth  were  living  in 
1623  and  were  then  unmarried.  In  *List  of 
Berkshire  Wills/  published  by  the  Oxford 
Society,  it  ia  recorded  that  Sylvester  Cow  per 
died  in  1594.  In  'Visitation,  1604-6/  no 
men  tion  is  m  ad  e  of  th  e  f  am  ily ,  Can  any  one 
throw  light  tu  show  what  became  of  the 
above-mentioned  children  % 

Arthur  L^  Coofer, 

Read  1  UK, 

King,  the  Trakslator  op  the  Erse  Old 
Testament.  "-"La  Vie  de  Guil*"  Bedell, 
Kveque  de  Kilmore  en  Irlande.  Traduite  de 
I'Anglois  do  M.  lo  Docteur  Burnet  par 
L.  D.  M.  A  Amsterdam,  chez  Pierre  Savouret, 
Marchand-Lihraire  dans  le  Kalver-atraat, 
M.BC.LXXXVIL/'  ia  a  very  interesting  little 


9»aviLjAN.6.i8oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


9 


book,  because  Louis  du  Mesnil,  the  trans- 
lator, dedicates  it  "A  Monseigneur  Fran9ois 
de  Harlai  De  ChanvcUon,  ArchevSque  de  Paris" 
and  expresses  the  belief  that  he  may  propose 
to  the  French  prelates  as  a  model  tnose  of 
the  Anglican  Cnurch.  and  presents  the  life 
of  Bedell  to  the  archbishop  in  order  that 


M*^clat  de  ses  vertus  rejalisse  jusqu'en 
France,  et  que  par  I'union  de  son  exemple  au 
Vdtrt  [«tcj  1  ancienne  discipline  paroisse  bien- 
t^t  en  sa  premiere  vigueur."  On  p.  120  it  is 
stated  that 

*'on  avoit  d^la  traduit  en  Irlandois  le  nouvcau 
Testament  et  la  Liturgie ;  mais  jugeant  que  le  vieil 
ne  devoit  pas  dtre  plus  cach^  il  chercha  quelqu'un 
qui  postedit  bien  cette  langue  pour  le  traduire. 
De  1  avis  du  Primat  et  de  quelques  autres  il  jetta 
lea  yeux  sur  un  nonim^  Ktngj  c'^toit  un  homme 
%g6  d'environ  70  ans,  qui  s'^toit  converti  quelques 
ann^  auparavant,  et  qui  passoit  pour  le  meilleur 
^rivain  en  Irlandois  de  son  temps  en  prose  et  en 
vera ;  nonobstant  Ics  d^fauts  de  son  education  et 
cet  ige  si  avanc^,  notre  Ev^ue  le  trouva  capable 
de  travailler  h  son  ouvrage,  et  afin  de  lui  donner 
nne  sainte  Emulation,  il  lui  donna  les  ordres,  le 
ponrv^t  d'un  benefice  et  le  pria  de  commencer ;  ce 
int  sur  la  version  Angloise  au'il  travailla,  parce 

2a*on  ne  pouvoit  trouver  d'Irlandois  qui  entendit 
%  langne  originale." 

According  to  the  life  of  Paul  King  in  the 
'Dictionary  of  National  Biography,'  the 
baptismal  name  of  the  translator  was  Mur- 
tagh,  and  he  was  Paul's  uncle.  No  mention 
is  made  of  Murtagh  King  in  the  biographies 
of  Bishops  Bedell  and  Burnet  in  that  collec- 
tion. Did  he  translate  the  whole  of  the  Old 
Testament!  Has  any  other  part  of  his 
writings  in  prose  or  verse  been  preserved  or 
published  I  Palamedes. 

"Saranine."  —  The  latest  addition  to 
Oxford  journalism,  the  Pt)^,  in  its  second 
nuoaber  has  occasion  (p.  99)  to  rebuke  a 
critic  who  described  it  as  being  "clothed  in 
a  bilious  purple  cover,"  and  informs  its 
readers  that  **as  a  matter  of  fact  the  colour 
was  saranine."  What  is  the  origin  of  this 
name?  Surely  it  has  nothing  to  do  with 
Madame  Bernhardt  ?  Q.  Y. 

Three  Estates  in  Parliament.— I  always 
understood  that  the  Three  Estates  of  the 
Bealm  consisted  of  the  Lords  Spiritual,  the 
Lords  Temporal,  and  the  Commons  in  Parlia- 
ment assembled.  This,  however,  was  ob- 
viously not  the  opinion  of  Cromwell's  Parlia- 
ment of  1657.  For  in  their  "  Humble 
petition  and  advice,"  Article  VIL  (which 
relates  to  revenue),  it  is  laid  down  **and  this 
not  to  be  altered  without  the  consent  of  the 
Three  Estates  in  Parliament."  There  were, 
as  we  know,  no  bishops  in  Cromwell's  House 
of  Lords,  and  it  follows,  I  suppose,  that  *'  the 


Three  Estates  "  can  mean  nothing  else  but  the 
Protector,  the  other  House,  and  the  House  of 
Commons.  Burghclere. 

[See  H'^  S.  iv.  136,  269,  409 ;  v.  9 ;  viii.  62,  103, 
14.3, 262,  especially  the  references  in  vol.  viii.,  where 
the  subject  of  the  Estates  of  the  Realm  is  fully 
dealt  with.] 

The  Acacia  in  Freemasonry.— Can  any 
reader  inform  me  as  to  the  significance  of 
the  acacia  which  is  always  put  in  the  funeral 
wreaths  for  Freemasons?  I  have  asked 
several  Freemasons,  but  they  have  not  been 
able  to  tell  me,  while  admitting  the  acacia  is 
never  omitted.  Also,  is  there  any  one  of  the 
numerous  species  of  acacia  which  is  used  in 
preference  to  others  ?  W.  M.  Norman. 

"Kitty- WITCH."— Forby,  in  his  'Vocabulary 
of  East  Anglia,'  mentions  in  his  account  of 
Kitty-witch  : — 

•*  It  was  customary,  many  years  ago  at  Yarmouth, 
for  women  of  the  lower  oraer,  to  go  in  troops  from 
house  to  house  to  levy  contributions  at  some 
season  of  the  year,  and  on  some  pretence,  which 
nobody  seems  to  recollect,  having  men's  shirts  over 
their  appjarel,  and  their  faces  smeared  with  blood. 
These  hideous  beldams  have  long  discontinued 
their  preambulations ;  but  in  memory  of  them,  one 
of  the  many  rows  in  that  town  is  called  Kitty- 
witch  Row. 

Will  any  one  inform  me  as  to  what  time  of 
the  year  this  custom  was  held,  or  supply  any 
particulars  respecting  it  ?         G.  F.  Pratt. 

Stanley  Public  Library,  King's  Lynn. 

Irish  Wills.— Where  are  Irish  wills  kept. 
1600-1760?  How  could  I  get  extracts,  and 
what  would  be  the  expense  { 

(Mrs.)  J.  H.  Cope. 

Sulharostead,  Berkshire. 

The  Area  of  Churchyards.— Was  there 
any  customary  or  authorized  size  for  these,  or 
did  it  depenJ  entirely  on  the  generosity  of 
the  donor  of  the  land  for  the  site  of  the 
church  and  churchyard  ?  Did  the  number 
of  the  inhabitants  of  the  parish  affect  the 
question?  I  had  always  understood  that, 
when  a  pious  donor  founded  a  church  and 
endowed  it,  a  specific  part  of  the  land  was 
set  apart  as  a  consecrated  burial-ground,  and 
the  rest  became  glebe  land.    W.  B.  Gerish. 

Bishop's  Stortford. 

Robert  Owen,  of  New  Lanark.— Owen 
married  30  September,  1799,  Anne  Carolina 
(not  Caroline),  daughter  of  Dale  Dale,  mer- 
chant and  philanthropist,  Glasgow.  The 
'Diet.  Nat.  Biog.,^  vol.  xlii.  p.  451,  mentions 
three  sons  :  (1)  llobert  Dale,  (2)  Daniel  Dale, 
and  (3)  David  Dale.  Of  Robert  Dale  Owen 
a  separate  biography  is  given ;   '*  the  other 


10 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       {9»s.viLjA».6,Mei. 


two  bieci^iQe  professors  in  Anierican  colleges." 
I  sh^l  he  obliged  by  any  biographical  details 
of  David  and  Daniel.  I  may  mention  that 
when  David  Dale's  mansion  house  in  Glasgow 
was  sold  by  his  five  daughtera  in  1823,  the 
signature  of  one  of  the  ladies  to  the  convey- 
ance was  witnessed  by  "  Daniel  Dale  Owen 
and  Richard  Owen,  sons  to  the  said  Robert 
Owen,"  To  the  signature  of  Mrs.  Owen  (who 
signed  at  Seafield  Baths,  near  Leith)  one  of 
the  witnesses  was  "William  Owen,  of  New 
Lanark  Mills."  What  became  of  Kichard  ? 
William,  I  presume,  was  not  a  son. 

WILLIAM  George  Black. 
Bamoyle,  Bowanhiil  Gardens,  Glasgow. 


%t9]m. 


"SHIMMOZZEL." 
(9^»»  S.  vi.  266,  371.) 
It  is  evident  that  many  who  undertake  to 
write  on  Hebrew  words  anglicized  into  slang 
are  not  sufiicicntly  acquainted  with  that  com- 
plex subject,  and  cannot  follow  the  evolutions 
and  contortions  of  the  terms  now  becoming 
current. 

Take  the  word  shimmozel,  for  instance.  The 
common  herd  so  pronounce  it  whereas  the 
great  majority  of  Jews  say  ahlemozel,  which 
is  a  corruption  of  schleckt  (German,  bad) 
mozzelj  t.e.^  misfortune,  as  contrasted  with 
mozzel  touv,  Heb.,  good  luck. 

I  hear  tlie  word  meidocher  very  often.  It 
is  always  used  in  a  good  sense,  meaning  work 
or  business.  If  it  has  become  a  slang  word, 
it  is  a  new  experience. 

Shofxd  may  certainly  be  slang,  but  the 
connexion  between  a  cab  and  the  Hebrew 
noun  for  blackguard,  or  the  Hebrew  adjective 
for  low  in  stature  or  degree,  is  difficult  to 
understand  or  follow. 

Cdser  is  another  example.  It  does  not 
mean  a  bad  crown  piece,  but  a  good  one.  In 
certain  synagogues,  happily  few  in  number, 
the  ancient  practice  is  retained  of  announcing 
pecuniary  oiferings  in  Hebrew,  so  as  to  keep 
closely  in  touch  with  the  beloved  language 
of  the  worshipper.  Surely  in  this  instance, 
when  a  man  oflfers  '*half-a-caser,"  he  does 
not  mean  a  bad  half-crown. 

English  slang  is  indebted  to  these  svna- 
gogues  for  another  peculiar  term,  kt/oosh, 
signifying  a  trifling  affair,  a  matter  of  no 
moment.  The  evolutions  of  the  word  would 
puzzle  a  Skcat.  Originally  it  meant  eighteen- 
pence,  a  trifling  amount.  It  is  still  used  in 
that  sense.    It  consists  of  two  words,  the 

futtural  cAt=eighteen,  and  bo8h  —  &  penny, 
n  Hebrew  letters  are  often  used  as  numerals. 


The  guttural  letter  ch  is  eight,  the  vowel 
i  is  ten.  Eight  and  ten  make  eighteen.  The 
Hebrew  for  penny  is  poshetj  abbreviated  into 
posh,  afterwards  6o»A.  Conseguentijr,  kybosh  is 
eighteenpence  good  in  Jewish  aflairs,  some- 
thing of  no  value  in  ordinary  transactions. 

Here  is  another  word  in  common  uue, 
holbose,  signifying  householder,  person  of  some 
importance.  In  correct  Hebrew,  as  found  in 
the  Prayer  Book,  it  is  bahna-ol  hob-bah-yiu^ 
phonetically  transliterated.  Many  such  words 
are  heard  in  Jewish  houses,  but  persons  of 
refinement  eschew  them  as  vulgar  utter- 
I  ances. 

I  The  use  of  Hebrew  or  Yiddish  words  in 
ordinary  conversation  depends  for  its  amount 
wholly  on  such  factors  as  birthplace,  educa- 
tion, or  environment.  English -born  Jews 
know  but  few,  and  these  few  they  rigorously 
avoid.  Speaking  for  myself,  a  Londoner  from 
my  birth,  and  imbued  with  intonse  British 
feeling,  I  hold  in  disfavour  anything  non- 
English.  And  yet,  strange  to  say,  I  have  at 
times,  in  the  company  of  family  and  friends, 
conversed  in  a  mixed  dialect  of  pure  English, 
Hebrew,  and  Yiddish  —  a  conglomeration 
wholly  unintelligible  to  persons  not  of  the 
Jewish  race. 

A  short  time  ago  a  lady  of  good  taste  and 
education  was  talking  in  my  presence,  and 
detailing  her  annoyances  with  her  servant. 
This  was  her  mode  of  expressing  her  expe- 
rience: "My  dear,  I  have  such  shivenev 
(heart-breaking)  with  my  shickser  (female 
servant).  I  cannot  stand  more  of  her  chutzpa 
(impertinence).  I  must  shik  (German  acAtcAin, 
send)  her  away.  I  tell  her  repeatedly  things 
she  must  not  do,  and  she  will  do  them  dovia 
(absolutely  in  despite)."  Vexation  aroused 
the  speaker  to  such  intensity  that  she  broke 
out  in  emphatic  terms  for  which  she  could 
not  readily  find  English  equivalents. 

M.  D.  Davis. 


Mr.  Platt's  list  of  Anglo-Hebraic  slang 
words  is  most  interesting,  but  incomplete. 
He  might  have  added  deenar  (shillingX 
kifjosh  (eighteenpence),  kokum  (cleverness) 
from  D3n  (a  wise  manX  metaea  (bargain)  from 
n^^^^iJ^  (a  find),  kosher  (a  drop  of  rumX.  the 
rum  used  for  Passover  being  o.p.,  specially 
selected  and  refined,  "ie'3=pure.  I  always 
understood  a  shoful  was  a  four-wheeler, 
being  "  low  "  in  construction.  Mr.  Platt's 
explanation  of  caser  is  ingenious,  but  too 
philosophical.  "in3  =  crown  j  caser  malchuth 
=crown  of  glory.  The  transition  from  crown 
to  five  shillings  is  natural,  but  not  sublime. 
This  word  is  in  demand  in  those  svnagogues 
where  schnodering  (offerings)  is  still  in  vogua 


9»  8.  VII.  Jan.  a,  1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


11 


Babbi  Ptoses  tchnoden  (oflfera)  &  oojer^flve 
shillings.     I   have  often   heard    dealers   in 
Petticoat  Lane  say  to  one  another,  **I  will 
give  you  a  caaer  fur  it,''  /.e,,  a  crown  piece. 
M,  L.  R.  Breslah, 

I  ventQit)  to  submit  to  Mr,  James  Platt, 
Jun^  that  it  is  mther  to  the  credit  of  the 
•H.KD/  than  otherwise  that  it  only  con- 
tains one  word  of  Yiddi^th  slang,  and  to  sug- 
gest that  Mr  J.  S.  Farmer  will  be  delighted 
to  have  for  his  *  Slang  and  its  Analogues* 
any  number  of  exact  quotations  for  such 
words.  ^  Q.  V. 

SEmiLS  FOUND  IH  VlCTOHlA  BtRBET,  WeST- 

MtNsTEE  (9"*  8.  vi,  428).~I  think  that  light 
can  bo  very  easily  thrown  upon  what  appears 
to  be  darVnefis  concerning  the  finding  of 
these  skulk.  I  have  in  my  possession  a  map 
or  plan,  which  belonged  to  Mr.  H,  K  Abra- 
ham, giving  the  immediate  neighbourhood 
of  the  then  projected  street  now  known  a^ 
Victoria  Street.  The  date  of  the  map  is  1845, 
and  the  gentleman,  if  not  the  actual  de^siRner 
of  the  street,  wa«,  as  1  believe,  the  architect 
of  isome  of  the  eariient  buildinRs  there  for  the 
Westminster  Improvement  Commissioners. 
The  line  of  the  street  here  given,  if  not  quite 
the  one  eventually  followed,  is  at  least  near 
enough  for  the  purpose  in  view*  If  a  line  be 
drawn  from  the  south-east  angle  of  Christ 
Church  railings  in  a  straight  line  acros.*i 
Victoria  Street  to  the  private  door  of  No.  07, 
and  thence  to  the  south-eaat  comer  of  the 
Hotel  Windsor,  the  triangular  space  within 
these  lines  will  give  us  appro ximately  the 
portion  of  the  churchyard  absorbed  by  the 
new  str^t  when  it  was  made.  It  tlierefore 
seems  clear  that  the  skulls  and  bones  found 
in  the  way  described  must  have  been  once 
laid  to  Teat  in  the  churchyard,  either  Nince 
Christ  Church  was  built  and  dedicated  in 
184.3  or  in  the  days  before,  when  the  ground 
was  attached  to  the  New  Chapel  that  used  to 
fitand  here.  Presumably  the  portion  of  the 
burying-g round  required  was  cleared  of  all 
huioan  remains,  but  of  course  it  is  possible 
that  Home  escaped  oi^servatton  and  were  left 
under  the  new  roadway  when  made.  That 
some  of  the  bodies  here  interre<l  had  come 
to  an  untimely  end  is  probable,  for  the  net- 
work of  unsavoury  courts  and  alleys  about 
this  spot  in  those  days  is  well  known^  and 
was  doubtless  a  legacy  left  to  the  city  tvom 
the  evil  old  sanctuary  days.  We  have  only 
to  remember  the  Qreat  and  Little  Almonry, 
the  New  Way,  Old  and  New  Pye  streets, 
Desn  Street^  Orchard  Street,  Dacre  Street, 
Coofier  Btr^t,  Buck  Lane,  and  sooie  very 


questionable  places  further  along.  Paradise 
Row  and  Fu peon's  Kow  (close  to  Palmer^s 
VilJaso),  where  quarrels  were  of  almost  hourly 
occurrence,  to  feel  that  violent  deaths  were 
not  likely  to  Im  fow  or  far  between.  And 
further,  when  the  street  was  first  opened  for 
traffic,  and  for  many  jeai-s  afterwards,  it  was 
avoided  by  pedestrians  on  account  of  the 
bad  locality  througli  which  it  was  pierced, 
robberies  being  then  very  frequent.  The 
spot  where  the  remains  alluded  to  were  found 
was  beyond  all  doubt  part  of  the  churchyard, 
and  this,  I  think,  accounts  for  their  being 
found.  May  1  say  I  am  always  delighted 
when  I  see  our  "  American  cousins "  taking 
an  interest  in  thinas  concerning  the  past  of 
London?  W.  E.  Haelahd-Oxlky. 

14,  Artillery  Buildings,  Victoria  Street,  S,  W. 

This  is  nothing  new.  A  great  deal  of 
Victoria  Street,  Westminster,  is  built  upon 
arches.  After  the  absolute  clearing  away  of 
a  large  district  that  was,  until  then,  one  of 
the  plague-spots  of  London,  the  strai^ht^  wide 
road  now  existing  ^as  formed.  It  is  raised 
some  ten  or  twelve  feet  above  the  former  land 
leveL  Shortly  after  its  formation  a  number 
of  "  carcasses  "  were  built.  These  now  form 
the  brick  skeletons  of  many  of  the  present 
houses.  The  speculation^  however,  did  not 
prove  a  success  from  a  financial  point  of  view  ' 
and  so  it  <mme  about  that  these  "carcasses 
remained  unfinished  Imildings  for  many  years. 
In  between  the  blocks  of  half-built  reaiciencea 
the  plots  were  simply  waste  land,  showing 
here  and  there  evidences  of  the  foundations 
of  deatroyetl  houses.  In  1855  some  lad*(  dis- 
covert human  bones  upon  a  spot  that  had 
evidently  at  one  time  been  a  graveyard.  It 
was  situated  about  one  hundre<J  and  fifty 
yards  down  tlie  Btrwt  (coming  from  the 
Abli«?y)  and  uptm  the  left-hand  side.  By 
grubbing  the  soil,  skuHs  and  human  bones  of 
all  de.scriptions  were  unearthed.  These  finds 
the  youngsters  used  Us  break  up  and  sell  for 
old  oonea  at  a  market  price  of  one  halfpenny 
a  pound  in  certain  rag  -  and  -  bone  shops 
situated  in  the  adjacent  Great  Peter  Street 
and  St  rut  ton  Ground,  S.W,  I  lived  in  the 
immediate  neigh bourliood  at  the  time,  and 
have  seen  sackfuls  of  thesa  grim  relics  of 
departed  humanity  dug  upon  that  particular 
wpot  and  thus  disposea  of*  HAfiRY  Himb, 
Fair  Park,  Escelwr, 

Detached  Sheet  (y^  8.  vi.  266).— Let  me 
take  pity  on  the  twice  unfortunate.  The  late 
pMOF.  I)e  Morwax  a.Hked  fiom  what  work  had 
become  tletached  a  sheet  which  he  described. 
This  query  was  not  indexed,  and  I  cannot 
trace  any  reply,  although  I  have  iearched. 


12 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9^  s.  vii.  Jan.  5, 1901. 


The  professor  was  one  of  *  N.  <k  Q/s '  most 
esteemed  contributors,  and  was,  above  all  j 
things,  mathematical,  logical,  and  exact ; ' 
therefore  it  is  the  more  fitting  that  his  un- 
answered query  should  receive  a  complete 
reply,  and  that  his  stray  sheet  should  he 
restored  to  its  rightful  home.  It  belongs  to 
Dr.  Adam  Littleton's  *  Latin  Dictionary ' ;  in 
my  copy  (4th  ed.,  1715)  the  signatures  do  not 
correspond,  so  that  the  professor's  sheet  must 
be  of  another  edition.  This  sheet,  however, 
forms  the  last  few  leaves  of  the  volume.  The 
inscription  in  memory  of  the  Great  Fire  is 
mentioned  in  Southey's  *  Doctor,'  1848,  p.  547. 

W.  C.  B. 

"English-speaking"  (9"»  S.  vi.  486).— 
Bentham,  I  think,  suggested  the  phrase  to 
me,  and  I  used  it  freely  in  *  Greater  Britain ' 
before  "  the  seventies,"  viz.,  in  1868. 

Charles  W.  Dilke. 

Healing  Stone  (9**»  S.  vi.  370,  477).— Mr. 
•  Carter  does  not  say  what  especial  diseases 
the  tomb  at  Christchurch,  ]Mon.,  had  the 
reputation  of  curing.  There  are,  I  believe, 
other  examples  of  healing  tombs  scattered 
up  and  down  the  kingdom.  One  thirteenth- 
century  specimen  I  have  a  note  upon  is  to 
be  found  at  Newington,  Kent.  Usuallv  the 
tomb  or  stone  indicated  the  site  of  the  shrine 
of  some  local  saint  or  anchorite.  May  not 
this  be  the  case  at  Christchurch  ? 

W.  B.  Gbrish. 

Bishop's  Stortford. 

Latin  Motto  (9**»  S.  vi.  469).— In  the 
'Glossary  of  Latin  Words'  in  the  'Record 
Interpreter,'  by  Charles  Trice  Martin,  the 
word  **  filiatio  "  is  given  as  meaning  "  sonship, 
subjection,  obedience;  used  of  monastic 
houses."  Arthur  Hussey. 

Tankerton-on-Sea. 

Latin  Lines  (9"*  S.  vi.  410).— Like  Whim 
I  should  be  glad  to  know  the  source  whence 
I  got  some  lines  now  long  ago.  They  are 
as  follows,  and  appear  to  go  very  well  with 
those  given  by  Whim  :— 

Bonuni  vioum  cum  sapore, 
Bibit  abbas  cum  priore, 
Sed  conventuR  de  pejore, 
Semper  solet  bibero. 

Thos.  Wainwrioht. 
Barnstaple. 


the  records  he  possesses  of  the  Derbyshire 
Yeomanry.  With  a  little  trouble  and  research, 
and  M'ith  a  good  index,  he  could  make  them 
interesting  and  very  valuable  for  the  county 
historian  and  genealogist.  He,  like  Mr. 
Fellows,  will  be  surprised  at  the  same  families 
and  names  continuing  even  in  these  days  of 
changes.  He  will  probably  find  the  old  com- 
missions preserved  :  and  the  old  uniforms  are 
not  unlikely  to  be  found  in  family  portraits. 

Handpord. 

•The  Earl  of  Chester's  Regiment  of  Yeo- 
manry Cavalry  :  its  Formation  and  Services, 
1797  to  1897,'  written  by  Frederick  Leary, 
was  privately  printed  for  the  officers  of  the 
regiment  in  1898.  It  is  a  valuable  record, 
well  illusti-ated.  I  find  the  following  titles 
in  Mr.  Fortescue's  *  Subject  Index  of  Modern 
Works  in  the  Library  of  the  British  Museum ': 

.  Cooper  (W.  S.),  *  A  History  of  the  Ayrshire  Yeo- 
manry.'   Edin.,  1881. 

Fellows  (G.),  *  History  of  the  South  Notts  Yeo- 
manry Cavaliy.*    Notts,  1895. 

Thomson  (J.  A.),  *  History  of  the  Fife  Light 
Horse.*    Edin..  1892. 

c.  w.  s. 

Charles  Lamb  and  *  The  Champion  '  (9** 
S.  vi.  442).— The  key  to  the  first  epigram 
quoted  is  to  be  found  in  Solomon's  '*  Balm 
of  Gilead,"  an  empiric  preparation  much 
advertised  in  the  early  years  of  the  present 
century.  Samuel  Solomon  was  a  quack 
doctor  residing  in  Liverpool.  Taking  the 
few  old  directories  I  happen  to  possess. 
I  find  in  1796  he  is  described  as  "surgeon,'* 
in  1803  as  "doctor."  while  in  1811  he  is 
styled  "Samuel  Solomon,  M.D."  He  lived 
in  various  parts  of  the  town,  finally  building 
for  himself  a  large  house,  with  extensive  and 
beautiful  gardens,  in  Kensington,  about  100 
yards  from  where  I  now  write.  He  called 
his  house  "Gilead  House."  He  advertised 
extensively,  and  found  his  profit.  His  name 
and  specific  are  commemorated  in  three 
mean  streets,  near  to  his  former  abode— 
Gilead,  Balm,  and  Solomon  streets,  in  the 
order  of  their  importance.  J.  H.  K. 

Liverpool. 

The  epigram  *  On  a  late  Empiric  of  "  Balmy  " 
Memory '  relates  to  Dr.  Solomon  and  his 
Balm  of  Gilead.  Concerning  them,  see 
*  N.  &  Q.,'  2»'»  S.  iii.  187,  236  ;  3"»  S.  ii.  36. 

W.  C.  B. 


Yeomanry  Records  (9^^  S.  vi.  269,  397).— 
The  'History  of  the  South  Notts  Yeomanry 
Cavalry,  1794  to  1894,'  by  Geo.  Fellows, 
captain    and     hon.    maior,    illustrated,  was 

Sublished  in  1895  by  Thos.  Forman  &  Sons, 
fotts.    Mr.  Drury  certainly  should  publish 


Petition  to  Parliament  (9**»  S.  vi.  470).— 
The  first  of  such  petitions  in  1780  was 
presented  by  Sir  George  Savile  to  the  House 
of  Commons  on  8  February,  1780,  on  behalf 
of  the  gentlemen,  clergy,  and  freeholdem  of 
the  county  of  York.    After  referring  to  the 


9»  8.  viL  jax.  5. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


13 


expensive  and  unfortunate  war  in  which  the 
nation  had  been  en^ged  for  several  years, 
and  to  the  diminished  resources  and  growing 
burdens  of  the  community,  the  petitioners 
praved  that  before  any  new  burdens  should 
be  laid  upon  the  country  effectual  measures 
might  be  taken  by  the  House  to  inquire  into 
and  correct  the  gross  abuse  in  the  expenditure 
of  public  money,  to  reduce  all  exorbitant 
emoluments,  to  rescind  and  abolish  all 
sinecure  plsMses  and  unmerited  pensions,  and 
to  appropriate  the  product  to  the  necessities 
of  the  State  in  such  manner  as  to  the  wisdom 
of  Parliament  should  seem  meet. 

Petitions  in  similar  terms  were  received 
from  the  counties  of  Hertford  (11  February), 
Middlesex,  Chester,  Sussex,  Surrey,  Hunting- 
don, Bedford,  Essex,  Somerset,  Wilts,  Glou- 
cester, Dorset,  Cumberland,  Norfolk,  Devon, 
Berks,  Bucks,  Kent,  Nottingham,  Cambridge, 
Hereford,  Northumberland,  Hants,  Suffolk, 
Derby,  and  some  of  the  Welsh  countias,  and 
from  London,  Westminster,  York,  Newcastle, 
Bristol,  Bridgwater,  Heading,  and  Notting- 
ham. 

On  11  February  Edmund  Burke  introduced 
his  well-known  Bill  for  the  better  regulation 
of  his  Majesty's  civil  establishment.  Both 
Bill  and  petitions  afforded  matter  for  frequent 
debates  throughout  the  session  of  1780.  Cf. 
•Parliamentary  Register,'  vol.  xvii.  (sub  tit 
*  Petitions '  in  index)  :  also,  on  the  subject  of 
ftinecures,  vol.  xvL,  where  a  complete  list  of 
Civil  Service  expenditure  is  given. 

W.  JR.  Barker. 
In  February,  March,  and  April,  1780,  about 
forty-one  petitions  from  divers  parts  of  the 
oonntry  were  presented  to  the  House  of 
Commons,  complaining  of  abuses  in  the 
expenditure  of  public  money  (see  the  printed 
•Journals'  of  that  House,  vol.  xxxvii.,  index, 
•Public  Money').  Of  these  petitions,  the 
wliest— from  Yorkshire,  York,  Bristol,  and 
Nottingham— were  presented  on  8  February, 
1780.  That  from  Bristol  prayed  for  a  "  just 
and  necessary  reformation  in  the  puolic 
expenditure."  H.  C. 

Anoier,  Anoer,  or  Aunoier  Family  (9**»  S. 
tL  169).— There  is  a  note  in  the  Gentleman's 
Magazine  for  1825  (vol.  ii.  p.  686)  relating  to 
the  Kentish  family  of  Aucher.    It  states  that 

"the  third  quartering  in  the  Bowyer  arms  (Erm.. 
in  chief  three  lions  rampant)  is  the  coat  armour  of 
Sir  Hewitt  Aucher,  of  Bishopsboume,  Kent,  Knt. 
and  Bart.  It  was  borne  by  Robert  Aucher,  M.A., 
Priest,  of  Queen's  College,  Oxford,  third  son  of  Sir 
Anthony  Aucher." 

Sir  Anthony  Aucher,  Bart,  of  Bourne,  Kent 
(died  1698X  married  as  his  second  wife  (after 


1648)  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas 
Hewitt,  Knt.,  and  by  her  had  a  son,  Sir 
Hewitt  Aucher,  Bart.,  who  died  without  issue 
in  1726,  and  is  buried  in  Bishopsboume 
Church.  Sir  Anthony  s  daughter  and  eventual 
sole  heiress  married  Sir  Edward  Bowyer,  Knt. 

J.  A.  Hewitt. 
Port  Elizabeth,  South  Africa. 

"Five  o^clock  tea":  When  Introduced 
(9^  S.  vi.  440).— At  Westerton,  near  Elgin 
(now  the  property  of  one  of  the  sons  of  the 
late  Lord  Bute),  a  cousin  of  mine  used  to  live 
in  the  early  fifties.  I  recollect  an  aunt  going 
to  visit  them,  and  telling  me,  on  her  return, 
that  they  had  "tea  before  dinner"  in  the 
drawing-room.    This  was  before  1853. 

George  Angus. 

St.  Andrews,  N.B. 

"  Ha  WOK  "  (9*»»  S.  vi.  387).— When  James  IV. 
got  201.  white  silver  "  to  cast  in  hawok^"  was 
it  not  that  his  Majesty  might  indulge  m  the 
sport  of  falconry  or  hawking?  A  C€wt  of 
hawks  was  unhooded  for  the  chase  of  the 
heron  in  its  flight.    Ha/oc=heLwk,  A.-S. 

J.  L.  Anderson. 

Edinburgh. 

Does  not  "cast  in  ha  wok  "  allude  to  money 
used  in  the  "  scatteration "  of  largesse^ 
"  havoc,"  in  the  sense  somewhat  of  waste  ? 

J.  HOLDEN  MacMiCHAEL. 

Lincoln's  Inn  Fields  (8^*»  S.  iv.  425}.— A 
correspondent  of  *  N.  <k  Q.,'  Mr.  C.  A.  Wajid, 
under  the  above  reference,  wrote  :— 

**  There  will  soon  be  a  multitude  of  minor  relics 
disengaged  when  Holywell  Street  is  thrown  into 
the  Strand— that  dear  old  gilded  crescent  moon, 
with  a  face  in  the  inner  curve,  for  instance.  If  we 
do  not  act  promptly  these  things  will  be  suddenly 
knocked  down  some  late  winter  evening,  and  the 
rubbish  cart  destroy  in  a  moment  all  further  chance 
of  antiquarian  record." 

Your  correspondent  will  be  gratified  to 
know  that  the  London  County  Council  acted 
promptly  so  soon  as  it  had  acquired  the  house 
to  which  the  sign  in  question  was  affixed,  and 
had  it  removed  for  safety  to  Spring  Qardens, 
where  it  remains. 

I  should  like  to  know  what  has  become  of 
the  carved  angle-post  to  the  house  on  the 
south  side  of  Holywell  Street,  at  the  corner 
of  a  passage  way  leading  to  the  Strand,  which 
was  pulled  down  a  few  years  ago. 

John  Hebb. 

"Musha"  (9'»»  S.  vi.  448).— Mr.  A.  L.  May- 
hew  asks  what  is  the  Irish  form  of  this  word, 
familiar  to  readers  of  Irish  novels.  The  Irish 
form  is  rtiaise  or  maiseadh  (riming  with 
Sussia\  derived  from  ma  (if),  u  (is),  and  e  or 


14 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       9«»  s.  vii.  Jan.  5.  i«oi. 


eadk  (it).  The  original  meaning  was  there- 
fore "  if  so,"  but  it  is  commonly  used  in  the 
sense  of  "well  then."  See  Canon  Bourke's 
'Easy  Lessons  in  Irish/  1896,  p.  52. 

James  Platt,  Jun. 

This  interiection  in  colloquial  Anglo-Irish 
represents  the  Irish  niaiseaah^  if  so  be,  then, 
therefore— t.tf..  nia  is  se  (O^Reilly,  *  Irish 
Dictionary,'  ed.  O'Donovan,  p.  346  ;  P.  Ken- 
nedy, *  Evenings  in  the  Duffrey,'  p.  402). 

A.  Smythe  Palmer. 

S.  Woodford. 

Movable  Stocks  (9"»  S.  vi.  405).— This 
mobility  is  confirmed  by  the  statement  that 
**  an  incorrigible,"  named  Samuel  Tisdale,  was 
"dragged  around  the  town  [of  Shrewsbury] 
in  the  stocks,  by  a  mob":  this  occurred  in 
1851,  as  nearly  as  can  be  ascertained. 

A.  Hall. 

Manv  years  ago  (it  was,  I  think,  in  1861)  I 
saw  the  performance  of  'King  Lear'  at 
Sadler's  Wells  Theatre,  then  under  the 
management  of  Mr.  Phelps,  who  enacted  the 
part  of  Lear.  I  can  remember  the  movable 
stocks  being  brought  upon  the  stage,  and  the 
Earl  of  Kent  being  placed  in  them  (Act  II. 
sc.  ii.).  Probably  movable  stocks  were  keut 
in  most  castles  in  feudal  times  for  punish- 
ment. No  doubt  in  the  edition  of  Shakspere 
by  my  late  friend  Halliwell-Phillipps  tnere 
would,  be  found  a  pictorial  illustration  and 
much  curious  information  on  the  point.  He 
once  told  me  that  his  own  special  copy  of  his 
fiftv-guinea  Shakspere.  which  he  hfitd  copi- 
ously annotated,  was  destroyed  by  fire  at  a 
repository  where  he  had  housed  it. 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 

Newbourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

There  was  a  pair  of  movable  stocks  in  the 
church  of  Northorpe,  near  this  town,  some 
fifty  years  ago.  Whether  they  are  preserved 
in  the  present  day  I  have  no  means  of  know- 
ing. Edward  Peacock. 

Dunstan  House,  Kirton-in-Lindsey. 

Camden  Ancestry  (9^*»  S.  vi.  430).— Agnes 
Strickland  in  her  'Queens'  mentions  that 
Sir  Henry  Curwen,  of  Workington,  with 
whom  Queen  Mary  of  Scots  sojourned  a 
brief  time,  was  cousin  of  Queen  Catherine 
Parr,  Queen  Mary's  aunt  by  marriage.  By 
the  same  maternal  descent  (through  his 
mother  Agnes,  daughter  of  Sir  'Ihomas 
Strickland,  of  Sizergh,  and  Eolith  Neville, 
of  Thornton  Briggs)  Sir  Henry  was  con- 
nected by  blood  to  Mary  and  her  cousin 
Elizabeth,  Ralph  Neville,  Earl  of  Westmor- 
land, grandfather  of  Cecily,  Duchess  of  York, 
being   their   common   ancestor.      Thus   Sir 


Henry  Curwen  was  Queen  Mary's  cousin  in 
the  fifth  degree.  Camden,  being  his  nephew, 
was  therefore  a  kinsman  of  the  two  rival 
queens.  There  was  a  Camden  family  at 
Battersea  in  the  last  century.  John  Camden 
of  that  place  had  two  daughters,  coheirs. 
The  elder,  Elizabeth,  married  in  1788  James 
Neild,  High  Sheriff  of  Bucks  in  1804  (a  well- 
known  philanthropist  and  prison  reformer 
of  the  nay).  In  an  article  in  the  '  Book  of 
Days '  upon  his  son,  John  Camden  Neild,  it 
is  statea  that  his  mother  was  "a  direct 
descendant  of  the  renowned  antiquary  of 
the  same  name."  Upon  what  authority  that 
statement  was  based  I  do  not  know,  but 
among  the  descendants  of  Harriet,  younger 
daughter  of  John  Camden,  of  Battersea,  who 
married  John  Mangles,  of  the  Manor  House, 
Hurley,  Berks,  I  nave  found  it  generally 
believed.  The  descent  may  possibly  be  from 
Camden's  father  through  his  son  Sampson, 
who  was  married,  M'hile  the  antiquary  was 
not.  In  the  register  of  St.  Augustine's  Church, 
London,  is  the  record  of  a  marriage  between 
Sampson  Camden  and  Avis  Carter^  4  Septem- 
ber, 1575.  In  the  printed  *  Visitation  or  Lon- 
don, 1633-5 'appears  a  short  pedigree  begin- 
ning with  Richard  Camden,  of  Mappowder, 
CO.  Dorset,  and  ending  with  his  son  Richard, 
who  married,  first,  Koda,  daughter  of  Ion 
King,  of  Eaton  ;  secondly,  Sarah,  daughter 
of  John  Dayrell,  of  Calehill  in  Kent.  I  much 
desire  to  clear  up  the  question  whether  the 
Camdens  of  Battersea  were  kin  to  "  Camden 
the  nourice  of  antiquity."  It  is  a  subject  of 
great  interest,  and  I  would  welcome  any 
light  thrown  uix)n  it. 

Francis  P.  Leyburn  Yarker. 
3,  Addenbrooke  Place,  Cambridge. 

Mr.  Curwen  is  correct  in  assuming  that 
'  Camdeni  Epistolte,'  1691,  small  4to.,  contains 
a  notice  of  Camden's  father,  Sampson  Cam- 
den. I  have  this  scarce  book,  and  will  be 
pleased  to  hear  from  Mr.  Curwen. 

A.  Iredale. 

Torquay. 

The  Rechabites  (9*»»  S.  vi.  261).— The  real 
status  of  these  Rechabites  seems  equivocal. 
We  are  told  in  2  Samuel  iv.  2  that  they  were 
of  the  sons  of  Benjamin,  so  Jews  of  pui-e 
blood.  But  in  1  Chronicles  ii.  we  find 
them  classed  with  the  sons  of  Judah  (v.  3), 
which  follow  on  to  David,  with  several 
named  Caleb ;  so  Caleb  son  of  Hur  or  Hor, 
ending  with  the  Kenites  that  came  of  Hamath, 
the  father  of  the  house  of  Rechab  ;  then  ch.  iii. 
reverts  to  David's  own  sons.  All  argument 
fails  if  the  reference  to  the  Kenites  is  called 
an  interpolation.  A.  H. 


9*  a  vu.  Jan.  5. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


15 


0^^  S.  vi.  454).^At  the  last  reference  we  are 
a«iked  how  the  aetiteiice  Egainst  a  fraudulent 
baker  was  carrier!  out,  when  ho  had  been 
sentenced  ta  the  jtidwium  doym^  or  punish- 
ment by  hurdle.  "The  culprit  wa^  drawn 
upon  a  hurdle  from  Guildhall,  through  the 
UQOJit  populous  and  most  dirty  streets;*,  with 
the  defective  loaf  hanging  from  his  neck " 
(*  Liber  Albus/  intmd.,  p.  ci).  See  roy  note 
to  'Hers  Plowman/  Text  C,  paasuft  iv.  1.  79. 
Walter  W.  Skeat, 


The  offending  baker  was  tie^I  (seated)  to  a 
com  Dion  hurdle,  to  which  two  borsen  were 
attached  ;  uauallj^^  a  deficient  loaf  was  hung 
round  the  culprit*i«  neckband  then  "he  way 
drawn  from  the  Guildhall  to  hi«  own  houi^, 
through  the  great  streets  where  there  be 
most  people  asisembled  and  through  the 
Kre&t  streets  that  are  most  dirty*'  (* Liber 
Album*).  J,  G,  WallacE'James,  M.B. 

H&ddingtoQ,. 

English  Accent  and  Etymology  (9^  S' 
vi,  207,  335,  455).— The  question  was  not 
which  pronunciation  of  inundate  is  the  be^st, 
but  which  is  moiit  ct>mraon.  Undoubtedly 
inundaie  is  preferable  every  way,  but  when 
I  pleaded  for  the  retention  of  the  r  sound  in 
certain  worda  I  was  lauglied  at— and  what  in 
the  use  of  opposing  cusLom  1  We  must  follow 
the  vagaries  of  fashion,  even  if  fashion  would 
have  us  call  them  vagaries,  as  probably  it 
will  do  soon.  C  C.  R 

CouNTiKG  Another's  Buttons  (9^  S.  v, 
496  ;  vi.  30,  273,  371,  456).— When  a  school- 
boy I  was  sometimes  offered  a  horoscope  by 
a  comra/le,  who  had  prejiared  a  list  of  trades 
and  professions  numbered,  e.gf.^  (1)  soldier, 
(6)  draper,  (SO)  lawyer,  ttc.  Another  time 
I  was  offered  a  roll  in  ascribed  with  a  similar 
list,  my  future  career  being  determined  by 
the  name  at  which  I  ceased  to  unfold  tlie 
roll.  Great  was  my  boyish  wrath  at  finding 
myself  cast  for  a  **  tot-hunter/'  a  slang  term, 
1  believe,  for  a  rag  picker  av  sorter.  Somo 
of  us  used  to  half  believe  in  this  mild  amateur 
jugglery.  FEAHcifi  E  Maechant* 

Hnxlou  HilL 

The  idea  appears  to  be  raentionerl  in  Shake- 
speare. In  'Merry  Wives/  IIL  ii.,  the  Hont 
of  the  Garter  says  :  **  He  will  carry 't,  he  will 
carry 't ;  ^fig  in  ku  Ifuitmiat;  ho  will  carry  %" 

H.  P.  L. 

St.  Hugh's  Day  (9"^  S.  vi.  409).— The 
''Mpec^ial  liturgry  "  or  Proper  Mass  of  St.  Hugh 
may  he  found  in  any  complete  printed  Sarum 
}{ksal  or  in  any  ^Q^apbte  M>S.  made  sub- 


sequent to  the  introduction  of  the  festival. 
It  may  be  readily  consulted  in  Dick  in  son's 
edition  of  '  Missal e  ad  Usum  8arum/  Burnt- 
island Press,  1801-83,  cols.  D71,  972.  Under 
the  term  "special  liturgy'*  your  correspond- 
ent would  prolmbly  include  the  Breviary 
Office  with  Its  proper  lessons  on  tlie  life  of 
St,  Hugh,  for  which  sea  Proctor  and  W^ords- 
worths  *Saruni  Breviary/  Camb.,  1886, 
fascic,  iil,  cols,  1059-1070.  So  much  for  the 
"  Proper  "  portions.  The  other  portions  of 
the  sBrvicej^  were  from  the  tJommon  of  a 
Confessor,  for  which  see  the  above-named 
Missal,  coL  700*,  and  Breviary,  fascic.  ii 
col.  4m.  J.  T.  F. 

Wiaterton,  Doncaster. 

Refer  to  *K,  &  Q.,*  g"'^  S.  xi.  27B  |  7^^  S.  vil 
348,  454  J  8^S.  xi.  307  |  xii.  71. 

EvEEAED  Home  Colemak, 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

COLUMBARIAj    AnCIENT    DoVE     OR     PiGEON 

Cotes  (2^  S.  vi.  389,  478).— There  is  a  very 
fine  columbarium  of  the  fourteenth  century 
at  Gar  way  on  the  river  M  on  now,  close  to 
the  interesting  Norman  church  dedicated  to 
St.  Michael.  G.  F.  K.  B. 

See  paper  on  *  Pigeon  Houses  in  Hereford- 
shire and  Gower,'  by  Alfred  Watkins,  road 
at  the  (Jiuucester  annual  meeting  of  the 
Archaeological  Institute,  15  August,  1890 
(Arck.  Joum.^  vol.  xlviii,  pp,  29-44), 

T.  Cann  Huohes,  M.A. 

lADc&ater, 

Sir  Johh  Boelase  Ware  en,  Bart.,  1753- 
im%  (9*^  S.  vi.  490).-!  find  that  the  Lmidrm 
Mngazin^^  vol.  xxi,  p.  528,  i-ecords  the  mar* 
riage  on  14  Nov,,  1752,  of  **John  Borlaco 
Warren,  Esq.;  of  Stapleford,  near  Notting- 
ham, to  "hXv^n  Bridget  Hoseir';  and  that  the 
(reniieman's  Mamnine^  vol,  xxiii,  p.  445, 
recorfls  the  birth  on  3  Sept*,  1753,  by  the 
*'  Lady  of  John  Borlace  Warren,  Esq.  ;  of  a 
son.*'  H.  C. 

"Dude"  (d^^  8.  vi.  450).-As  I  lately  ex- 
plained the  etymology  gf  this  word  in  the 
Atkenfjtiiifi^  perhaps  I  may  l>c  allowed  to  make 
a  few  remarks.  I  stater!  that  it  is  obviously  a 
shortened  form  of  the  Low  G.  Dndcn-dop  or 
Dttden-kop^  a  blockhead.  A  few  criticisms 
folio  wed  J  mostly  (as  it  seems  to  me)  irrelevant^ 
the  latCJit  of  them  being,  however,  exactly 
to  the  point.  The  writer  showed  that  the 
shortened  form  dude  also  occurs  in  German, 
but  is  not  given  in  any  of  the  smaliRr 
dictionaries.  It  is  noted,  nevertheless,  in 
the  great  dictionary  hy  Grimm,  who  explains 
it  hy  the  l^t,  "stupidus^"  and  refers  i^s  tQ 


16 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p*  s.  vn.  jau.  6.  iwi. 


the  Low  G.  Dvden-dop  and  Dvden-kop  as  being 
fuller  forms.  The  literal  sense  of  puden-kop 
is  stupid  or  lazy  head  ;  and  duden  is  allied  to 
the  English  dodder  and  dawdle,  and  (more 
remotely)  to  the  verb  to  dote.  It  follows  that 
the  correct  pronunciation  of  G.  dude  is 
(^cia,  riming  (nearly)  to  intnider,  the  clipped 
form  being  pronounced  as  dood.  But  every 
reader  who  was  unaware  of  its  German  origin 
would,  of  course,  pronounce  it  like  the  English 
-^ued  in  endued,  for  the  simple  reason  that 
final  -ude  is  commonly  so  pronounced,  unless 
an  r  precedes  it.  Of.  nude,  exude,  solitude.  I 
think  we  may  safely  conclude  that  there 
never  was  a  dandy  with  such  a  surname  as 
Dude;  neither  is  the  sense  of  "dandy"  the 
primary  one.  It  was  transferred  from  the 
thick-headed  man  to  the  empty-headed  one. 
There  is  not  much  to  choose  between  them. 
WaltePw  W.  Skeat. 

Perhaps  about  1880  it  was  the  fashion 
among  New  York  dandies  tt>  say,  **  How  dew 
you  dew?"  If  so,  they  may  have  been  at 
first  called  deiv-dexvs,  which  would  s(X)n  be 
shortened  into  deivds.  1  first  heard  the  word 
in  1887  from  an  American,  who  pronounced 
it  to  rime  with  imbued.  M.  N.  G. 

I  have  nothing  new  to  say  about  this  word 
itself,  but  the  following  may  be  interesting 
as  to  the  pronunciation  of  dodo,  which  is 
referred  to  in  Palamedes*s  note.  In  Prof. 
Daubeny's  amusing  little  posthumous  volume 
of  'Fugitive  Poems  connected  with  Natural 
History  and  Physical  Science'  (1869)  there 
are  some  verses  on  the  *  Fate  of  the  Dodo,'  by 
Prof.  Forbes,  the  first  and  last  of  which  are 
as  follows  :— 
Do-do,  Vasco  de  Gama 

Sailed  from  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope  with  a  crammer. 
How  he  had  met,  in  the  Isle  of  Mauritius, 
A  very  queer  bird  M'hat  was  not  very  vicious. 

Called  by  the  name  of  a  Do-do, 
And  all  the  world  thought  what  he  said  was  true. 

Do-do  !  alas  there  are  left  us 
No  more  remains  of  the  Didus  inept  us  ; 
And  so.  on  the  progress  of  science,  all  prodigies 
Must  (lie,  as  the  palm  -  trees  M'ill   some   day  at 
Loddiges' : 
And  like  our  wonderful  Do-do, 
Turn  out  not  worth  the  hullabaloo. 

This  "ornithological  romance"  is  followed 
by  "  the  first  verse  of  a  ditty  intended  to  be 
sung  in  opposition  to  Prof.  Forbes*s  verses 
on  the  Do-do,  at  one  of  the  dinners  of  the 
Red  Lion  at  Oxford,  1847,"  which  fixes  the 
date,  and  shows  that  the  pronunciation  then 
varied  : — 

Of  all  the  queer  birds  that  ever  you*d  see, 
The  Do-do  8  the  queerest  of  Columbidse, 
For  all  her  life  long  she  ne'er  sat  on  a  tree, 


And  when  the  Dutch  came,  away  went  she. 
Tee-wit,  tee-woo,  I  *d  have  you  to  know 
There  ne'er  was  such  a  bird  as  our  famed  D€>-do. 

Anonymous. 

If  Palamedes  would  like  to  see  the  little 
book,  and  will  send  me  a  postcard  with  his 
address,  I  shall  be  happy  to  lend  him  my 
copy.  J.  P.  Owen. 

72,  Comeragh  Road,  W. 

Early  Steam  Navigation  (9"»  S.  vi.  368, 
458).— " fionour  to  whom  honour  is  due"; 
"Justice  to  Ireland."  Your  esteemed  corre- 
spondent Mr.  George  Marshall,  of  Liver- 
pool, claims  the  Royal  William  of  Liverpool 
to  have  been  probably  the  first  real  passenger 
steamer  to  have  crossed  the  Atlantic  without 
coaling.  Now  he  has  overlooked  the  fact 
that  the  Sirius  of  Cork,  about  750  tons,  sailed 
from  that  port  on  4  April,  1838,  and  arrived 
at  New  York  22  April,  and  the  Great 
Western,  1,600  tons,  took  her  departure  from 
Bristol  8  Apnl,  and  reached  New  York  on 
the  23rd,  while  the  Royal  William  did  not 
sail  from  this  country  till  July  5  following. 

The  New  York  Weekly  Heinld  of  28  April, 
1838,  reported  the  arrival  of  the  Sirius  in  the 
followinfir  terms : — 

"The  Sirius!  The  Sirius!  The  Sirius  !—NothinK 
is  talked  of  in  New  York  but  about  the  Sirius. 
She  is  the  first  steam  vessel  that  has  arrived  here 

from  England,  and  a  glorious  boat  she  is Lieut. 

Roberts,  R.N.,  Commander,  is  the  first  man  that 
ever  navigated  a  steam  ship  from  Europe  to 
America." 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

"Owl  in  ivy  bush"  (9"»  S.  vi.  328,  396).— 
In  a  fireside  favourite  of  mine,  Hain  Friswell's 
*Varia:  Readings  from  Rare  Books,'  an  owl 
in  an  ivy  bush  conventionally  treated  forms 
the  quaint  headpiece  to  two  of  the  essays. 

H.  E.  M. 

St.  Petersburg. 

The  phrase  "  to  look  like  an  owl  in  an  ivy 
bush  "  IS  found  on  p.  65  of  the  1813  edition  of 
Ray's  *  English  Proverbs,'  and  can  probably 
be  traced  through  earlier  editions  of  the  same 
work.  Richard  H.  Thornton. 

Portland,  Oregon. 

Simon  Fraser  (8^**  S.  x.  156,  223 ;  9^  S. 
vi.  157,  338,  433).— I  feel  sure  that  all  corre- 
spondents of  'N.  <fe  Q.'  will  aeree  with 
Gnomon's  pithy  sentence  promulgated  at 
the  last  reference,  viz.,  "  Strict  accuracy  in 
matters  of  historical  detail,  however  appar- 
ently trivial  the  incident,  is,  1  assume, 
essential  to* N.ifeQ.'" 

In  Hone's  *  Table  Book,'  ed.  1866,  at  p.  119, 
is  a  portrait  of  Simon,  Lord  Lovat,  together 


9*s.vii.Jak.5,i9oi.)         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


17 


with  a  relatioa  of  how  the  picture  was  an 
etching  by  Hogarth  himaelf,  I  aasumei  from 
his  pfunttd  portrait  of  Lord  Lovat  i' — 

*'  The  shcirt  stay  of  Lovat  at  St.  ALbauB  allowed 
the  artist  hut  scanty  opportunity  uf  providing  the 
tn^ieriakls  for  a  curnpleto  picture ;  hence  some  car- 
penter wan  employed  on  tho  instant  to  ^lue 
together  some  lieiil  boards,  and  tdane  down  one  Aide, 
which  ifi  evident  from  the  back  beiog  in  the  ueual 
rough  itate  in  which  the  plank  leaves  the  sawpit. 
The  paiiUin^  [italics  i^re  minej^  from  the  iliinnc8a  of 
the  priming  grounds  beam  evident  ])rf)of  of  the 
baste  with  which  the  jjortrait  was  acooitiplitlied.*' 

This  will  answer  Mr,  Kobertson's  query  on 
p*  157;  The  whole  article  in  the  'Table 
book  *  is  welt  worth  peru^aL 

Feancis  W*  Jacksok. 

Papers  op  HuDsoy  Gurkey  (9^  S,  vi.  468). 
— The  Twelfth  Report  of  the  Kiatoricai  Manu- 
scripts Commi^iiion,  Appendix  IX.,  gives  a 
calendar  (pp,  116-164)  of  "a  valuable  collec- 
tion of  MSB.  belong! tig  to  the  trustee?*  of  the 
late  Mr.  Hudson  Gurney,"  **in  the  libmry  of 
Mr,  John  Henry  Gurney  at  Keswick  Hall," 
The  appendix  in  question  is  dated  1891,  and 
your  correspondent  would  probably  find  that 
the  papers  to  which  she  refers,  asi  well  as 
those  reported  ouj  are  still  in  Mr.  Gurney *s 
posae^aton.  Q.  V* 


Gehsdlefobd  Bridge  (S"* 
have  not  yet  seen  any  reph 


S.   iL  88).  "I 
to  the  above 


have  not  yet  seen  any  reply  to  the  above 

guention,  so  I  submit  the  following,  which  I 
nd  on  p.  364  of  vol.  vii.  (1852)  of  the  British 
Arch.  Soc.  Beport : — 

"Alm<3flt  every  hill  ccntajniojz:  a  barrow  has  a 
Haxoa  namet  some  of  them  after  their  gods,  e.g., 
fcfetterlow  near  Farwich,  and  this  is  of  a  piece  with 
other  namea  of  ptaces  about,  auch  as  GrindJeford 
Bridge  {ttrendel)»  Throwley,  Thor'a  Cave»  and  ijer- 
ba,pii  Grindon." 

Charles  Drubit, 

''Combination''  (9"*  R  vi.  470).— As  several 
of  the  pupils  had  '*  passed  from  Addition  to 
Mttlti plication,"  it  may  be  allowable  to  stir- 
miae  that  those  ©ngap^ed  on  "Combination" 
were  practising  the  twofold  process  of  adding 
a  number  of  lines  together  and  then  sub- 
traeting  the  same  lines,  in  succession,  from 
the  Aum  and  the  separate  results.  This  is 
only  a  sugpeationi  but  it  is  based  on  the 
knowledge  that  such  exercises  in  elementary 
arithmetic  are  given.  Thomas  Bayne. 

According  to  the  'H.E.DV  combination  is 
another  name  for  the  arithmetical  rule  com- 
monly called  alfiguiion, 

Walter  W.  Skbat. 

AciE  OP  Entry  at  Inns  of  Court  (9*^  B,  vi,  j 
107,  185,  278,  333).— I  would  a<ld  to  my  reply 
to  Frajtcs&ca  at    the  last    reference  the 


following  extract  from  Act  III.  ac»  L,  p.  27, 
of  Thomas  Nabbe8's  "Toten ham- Court,  a 
pleasant  Comedy.  Acted  at  the  private  hou«e 
in  SaHabery 'Court  "  (1^39,  4to);— 

Jam[e6\  How  shall  we  spend  the  day  S&m  f 
Sam,  Let 'a  home  to  our  studies  and  put  casefl« 
Jam.  Hangca&eii  and  bookea  that  are  8i>oyrd  with 
them.  Giv  e  me  Johfi^ion  and  Shak^itpmre  ;  there  '• 
learuuig  for  a  gentleman.  I  tell  thee  Sam^  wore  it 
not  for  the  dauoinK-?icbooleand  Playhouses,  I  would 
not  Htav  at  the  Innes  of  Court  for  the  hopes  of  a 
<fht«fe  Juatice-ship. 

** James"  and  "Sam,"  are  raspectively  de- 
scribed in  *'The  Persons"  (i*e,  diujnatit 
2)trsonw)  as  "  A  wild  young  Gentleman  "  and 
"  A  fine  Gentleman/'  both  "  of  tiie  Innes  of 
C^urt.'' 

I  may  also  refer  to  Paul  Hentzner,  the 
German  traveller,  who,  in  his  *  Journey  into 
England  in  the  Year  1598,*  as  published  in 
English,  states  that  there  are  fifteen  colleges 
within  and  without  the  City  of  London,  nobly 
buiit^  with  beautiful  gardens  ad  joinings  the 
three  principal  c)f  which  are  the  Temple, 
Gray's  Inn,  and  Lincoln's  Inn,  and  that 
"in  these  colleges  numbers  of  the  young  nobUity, 
gentry*  and  others,  are  educated,  and  chiefly  m 
the  study  tif  physic,  for  very  few  apply  themselvea 
to  that  of  the  law,'*  xxr   -r    n    \t 

Scanty  Wedping  Deebs  (O^h  g,  vi.  429).— 
It  was  a  vulgar  error  that  a  man  was  not 
liable  for  the  oride's  debts  if  he  took  her  in 
no  other  apparel  than  her  shift  —  that  is, 
without  common  clothes  on  her  back. 

Bacon's  *  Abridgment' tells  him  that  "the 
husband  is  liable  for  the  wife's  debts,  bistam^ 
he  acquires  an  absolute  interest  in  the  per- 
sonal estate  of  the  wife*';  he  therefore  con- 
cludes that  if  she  has  no  estate^  he  is  not 
liable,  and  therefore,  with  more  care  than 
refinement^  he  lets  the  world  know  that  the 
bride  brings  hira  nothing.  J-  S.  Burn,  in 
his  'History  of  the  Fleet  Marriages,'  records 
the  fact  that  "  the  woman  ran  across  Ludgate 
Hill  in  her  shift,"  and  aflds  ;— 

"The  Daily  Jottmal  of  8th  November,  1725, 
mentions  a  similar  exhibition  at  Ulcomb*?,  Kent, 
during  tiie  same  year.  The  registers  of  Chillem 
All  tiaints,  WjUb,  under  date  October  17,  171*, 
R-cord  the  marriage  of  John  Bridmore  and  Ana 
S<?llwrKid,  who  WM  married  in  her  smcKck,  without 
any  clothes^  or  head-gier  on." 
At  Whitehaven,  in  17ffC,  a  woman  stripped 
herself  to  her  shift  in  the  church,  and  in  that 
condition  she  stood  at  the  altar  and  was 
married.  In  Lincolnshire,  between  1838  and 
1844,  a  woman  was  married  enveloped  only  in 
a  sheet.  A  few  years  ago  a  similar  marriage 
took  place:  the  clergyman,  finding  nothing 
in  the  rabrie  about  the  woman's  dress  thought 


18 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9»8.vn.  Jan.  6.1901. 


he  could  not  refuse  to  marry  her  in  her 
chemiae  only.  At  Kirton-in-Lindsey  there 
•wm  A  popular  lielief  thttt  the  woraan  must 
be  actudly  nude  when  she  left  her  rasidence 
for  the-t  of  her  intended  hu'shand,  in  orcier  to 
relieve  him  from  lier  debts,  and  a  case  of  this 
kind  occuri'ed.  The  woman  left  her  hoyHc 
from  a  bedroom  winrlowj^tark  naked,  and  put 
on  her  clotbea  as  she  ^tood  upon  the  top  of 
the  ladder  by  which  she  accompli  bed  her 
deioent.  The  notion  of  a  marriaKe  in  a 
chemise  wa^  prevalent  at  Cottenham,  in 
Cambridgeshire,  recently. 

EVERAED   FIOME  COLEMAK. 
71,  Brecknock  Eoad, 

A  number  of  smock  marriages  in  America 
between  1724  and  1789  are  %'ery  fuUy  de- 
scribed in  Alice  ^f  orse  Earless  *  Customs  and 
Faabious  in  Old  New  Enj?land,*  p.  78.  At 
New  York,  in  1784,  a  man  under  sentence  of 
death  waa  pardoneil  on  marrying  on  the 
gallows  a  woman  clad  only  in  a  shift  I  do 
not  know  if  the  '  Life  of  Guatavus  Vassa'  is  a 
good  autliority  for  tins,  M,  N.  G, 

Troy  Weight  for  Bread  {9^^  S.  vi.  4(j8).— 
The  following  extract  from  *TUe  Assise  of 
Bread/  publishe<l  in  ir>Oi,  explains  the  use  of 
troy  weight  in  connexion  with  bread  :— 

"Note  also,  that  this  Assise  of  all  aortea  of 
bread,  ought  alwaies  to  hee  approued  by  the  Traye 
weigh t|  deriucd  from  the  g mi iiennf  wheats:  whorool 
two  graineSfr  taken  m  the  niirUlrfit  of  the  ear©, 
nmkeih  the  ivL  parte  of  a  Sterling  peny:  iiij. 
Kraines  maketh  the  ei^ht  parte  of  a  peny  t;^terUiii^ : 
eight  graines  make  the  fourth  imrie  of  a  xmny 
Bterlinji;,  and  two  an<1  thirtie  uraint^a  of  whoate^ 
make  the  whole  Sterliiij^  l>eny.  Twentieof  which 
pence,  make  the  ounce  Iroy,  x\-d,  three  quarters  of 
Wii.  ounce,  xd.  halfe  an  oun<?e,  tlue  pence  a  t^uarter 
of  an  ounce,  and  ijd.  oh.  lialfe  a  quart cr  of  an  ounce, 
which  weiifbt  bclnK  iiaiued  Troy  wciaht^  seruoth 
onlv  to  wey  Uread,  It  old,  Siluer,  prottTou«  JeweK 
and  EUectuariea,  of  which  weigh tej  there  la  but 
xij.  ounces  to  the  pound/' 

The  statutory  use  of  trny  weight  in  relation 
to  the  assize  of  bread  contitiued  from  the 
reign  of  Henry  11.  to  that  of  Queen  Anne, 
but  was  repealed  by  8  Anne,  cap*  ID,  which 
enacts  that  from  1  May,  I71D,  tbo  "Assi^ 
shall  be  set  in  Averflupoijs  and  not  Troy 
Wei^^bb/'  EmvARD  M.  Boer.uo. 

The  Library,  OuiI<3haih  llC. 


So  iDUch  on  the  ftubject?  nf  troy  wpight, 
and  bread  being  weighed  by  thin  weight,  ha^j 
already  appeared  in  '  N.  &  Q.,'  that  I  do  nob 
think  anything  mora  remains  to  be  said.  See 
4"*  S.  ix,  447,  514  ;  8'^  8.  x.  255,  278,  aO.\  338, 
383*  EvERAitD  Ho>iE  Coleman, 

Mile  End  Gate  Pottery  (Q^*^  S.  \d.  488).— 
Surely  one  need  not  look  for  a  pottery  where 


there  was  more  probably  a  "  public "  whose 
proprietor  wa^j  named  Sinclair,  and  who, 
ambitious  of  fame,  put  his  name  upon  the 
bottle  which  contained  a  liquor  (call  it  rum) 
which  he  sold,  and  marked  his  bottlea  just  as 
modern  publicans  and  chemists  often  do, 

0. 

LlEtJT.-COL.   MoOEHOUSE  {Q^^  S,   vi,  410).— 

CoL  Mark  Wilka,  in  his  '  Historical  Sketches 
of  the  South  of  India,'  voh  iii.  p.  125,  sayi  of 
Lieutv-Col  Moorehouae  Uie}:— 

"  He  had  risen  from  the  ranks,  but  nature  herself 
had  made  hitn  a  geutlemarr ;  uueducated,  ha  had 
made  himself  a  man  ef  scienee  :  a  career  of  iiuinter- 
rupttrti  distinction  had  commanded  general  reepeet ; 
and  hia  amiable  character  ujuvoraal  attachment." 
W.  a  L.  Floyd. 

**yrvA"  (9'^*  S,  vi.  266,  311,  3S I,  451).— Pray 
let  me  correct  two  printers*  errors  in  ray  letter 
on  this  subject.  I  wrote  **Stuhbin8,"  not 
"SlubbinV  a«  the  irreverent  nickname  of 
St.  Alban's  Hall  in  my  time;  and  it  was 
"  trama,"  not  ^"^  trains,"  that  I  said  annihilated 
distiince  in  Oxford  nowadays.  We  have  not 
yet  got  {as  in  «ome  South  American  cities)  to 
traina  careering  through  the  main  streetij  of 
Oxford.  But  I  am  not  sure  if  the  ir responsible 
ru8h  of  the  motor-car  is  not  worse.  May  I 
add,  with  reference  to  "New"  ver^uf!  **New 
College,"  that  one  often  hears  the  abbreviated 
form  used  by  men  of  other  colleges,  but  never 
(so  far  m  I  know)  by  New  College  men  them- 
selves? ThiJ*  fact  may  serve  to  reconcile  the 
somewhat  conflicting  opinions  of  your  other 
corre5*poudentH. 

Oswald  Hunter-Blais,  0*S.B. 

Oxford. 

Certainly  we  did  not  shout  "  On,  St  Ed- 
mund, on  I"  when  I  was  at  St.  Edmund  Hall, 
1B63-Cj6,  I  never  heard  of  any  traflition  to 
the  eflect  that  this  river-cry  had  ever  been 
used.  Sorae  eight  ye^rs  after  I  had  left  Die- 
ford  I  was  rebuked  by  an  Oxonian,  junior  to 
myself,  for  speaking  of  **New"  insteaju  of  New 
Cidlego.  George  Akgus, 

Ht.  AndrewKi  N,B. 

Nursery  Eimes  (9^'*  S.  ^i.  27,  93,  216,  491). 
—It  is  nob  Haiti  well  that  must  be  blamed  for 
changing  "njaidis''  into  "men"*  in  the  rime 
Mr.  Lelakd  quotes.  The  version  I  have  been 
familiar  with  in  popular  speech  all  tny  life 
long  is 

Hub  a  dub  dub,  three  men  ia  a  tub. 

C.  C.  B. 


"To  keech"  (9^  S.  vi.  40S).— Archdeacon 
Nares,  in  hit*  *  Glossary  of  the  Works  of  Eng- 
lish Authors,'  describes  kee^^  as  a  maa^  of 
fat  rolled  up  by  the  butcher  in  a  lump.    In 


fl*  8.  viL  Jak.  6, 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


19 


•  Henry  VIII.'  tlie  term  is  applied  in  contempt 
to  Wolsey,  because  he  was  the  son  of  a 
batcher  :— 

I  wonder 
That  such  a  keech  [as  Wolsey]  can  with  his  very  bulk 
Take  up  the  rays  &  the  b^neticial  sun 
And  keep  it  from  the  earth. 

William  Toone,  in  hU  *  Etymological  Dic- 
tionary/ says  that  a  fat  man  in  the  North  is 
called  keech-belly  :*= 

Thou  whoreson  obscene  J  greasy  tallow  keech. 
*  King  Henry  IV.' 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

•  Wedded  '  (9^  S.  vi.  209, 334).— It  is  difficult 
to  think  that  your  correspondent  China  is 
serious  in  the  suggestion  that  the  man  is 
biting  the  woman^s  finger.  I  have  heard  of 
a  courageous  Australian  who  wrote  direct 
to  the  late  Lord  Leighton.  putting  to  him  the 
same  question  as  Cuina  has  asked,  and  who 
got  for  a  reply  that  the  theory  of  the  "  bite  " 
was  wholly  due  to  the  lively  fancy  of  Mr. 
Punch.  Alex.  Leeper. 

Trinity  College,  University  of  Melbourne. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  &c. 
Problems  c/ EvoltUum,   By  F.  W.  Headley.    (Duck- 
worth &  Co.) 
Mr.  Hkadley  has  written  a  book  of  great  interest 
which  seenjs  a  good  deal  more  lucid  than  many 
att«mpt8  of  the  sort  to  deal  with  natural  selection. 
He  wages  war  against  the  Laniarckians,  and  adopts, 
with  differences,  Weismann's  theory  of  the  germ- 
plasm.    Compromise  between  these  two  schools  of 
investigation,  which  is  pronounced  inipossible,  wo 
believe  to  be  the  right  line  to  take.    Here,  at  any 
rate,  Mr.  Headley  seems  to  us  unfair  to  the  neo- 
Liunarckians ;  but  the  matter  is  so  intricate,  and 
the  difficulties  on  both  sides  so  great,  that  they 
cannot  be  conveniently  discussed  in  the  course  of  a 
review.    No  theory  of  evolution  is  yet,  we  hold, 
■atasl^tory— that  is,  sufficient  to  explain  the  data 
with  whicn  we  are  confronted  in  the  habits  and 
crowth  of  plants  and  animals.     Meanwhile  free 
inquiry  is  assured,  and  may  well  be  fostered  by  a 
book  like  this,  which  is,  we  must  add,  well  enough 
illustrated  to  give  some  idea  of  the  early  stages  of 
life.     Of  more  general  interest,  and  a  good  deal 
kn  difficult  for  the  lay  reader  to  understand,  is 
the  section  of  the  book  which  deals  with  problems 
of  human  evolution.    Here  the  author  says  much 
with  which  we,  after  some  study  of  the  subject, 
are  in  full  agreement,  and  says  it  with  a  clearness 
of  exposition  unfortunately  not  common  in  men  of 
science.    A  strong  race  results  from  a  struggle  with 
htfd  physical  conditions ;  the  fighters  are  the  fittest. 
and  all  advanced  civilizations  lead  to  a  growth  ot 
luxury  and  an  enervation  of  the  majority  of  indi- 
▼idnalss  which  must  result  in  a  fall  before  a  body  of 
poom  am  wbo  !»▼•  to  work  harder  to  Mm  » 


living.  The  only  power  which  makes  up  for  the 
enfeebled  remnants  of  natural  selection  in  a  highly 
civilised  body  is  "ultra^rational"  religion.  But 
the  toleration  which  reli^on  necessitates  does  both 
ffood  and  harm  to  a  nation  considered  physically. 
Men  alone  have,  unlike  animals,  the  privilege  of 
going  wrong,  and  they  make  unsuitable  unions 
without  immediate  punishmenti  The  weaklings 
which  result  are  not  exposed  by  Spartan  mothers, 
but  preserved  by  humane  doctors.  On  the  other 
hand,  **  Conscience  is  the  tribal  self,'*  as  is  well 
explained  here,  and  its  office  is  to  save  a  nation 
from  disintegration  by  advocating  altruism.  But 
if  in  religion  morality  is  included  (and  here  we  are 
dealing  \iith  religion  as  understood  by  anthro* 
Iiologists),  the  system  of  taboo,  which  Mr.  Headley 
ably  discusses,  must  also  be  so  classed,  as  he  con* 
eludes.  Taboo  8up|>orts  the  rights  of  marriage  and 
of  property— that  is,  of  monogamy.  And  such  a 
system  is  often  unfair  to  women,  as  Euripides  said 
lone  ago.  The  point  whether,  women  being  admit- 
tedly much  more  numerous  than  men,  such  a  taboo 
as  monogamy  imitiies  is  not  unnatural,  might  be 
fairly  advanced  by  an  Eastern  mind,  but  could 
never  be  considered  in  the  West.  Mr.  Headley 
does  not  touch  on  it  here. 

We  are  unable  to  acquiesce  in  the  statement  that 
alcohol,  on  the  whole,  *' tends  to  maintain  the 
phvsical  strength  of  a  nation,  and  at  the  same  time 
helps  to  develope  the  moral  qualities  on  which 
civilization  depiends."  The  merit  of  alcohol  as  a 
killer  of  the  untittest  has  been  often  advanced.  To 
this  Mr.  Headley  adds  that  individuals  who  are 
able  to  resist  it,  or  drink  without  getting  drunk, 
reach  a  higher  standard  than  they  could  possibly 
attain  if  such  temptation  was  not  put  before  them. 
But  this  advantage  is  not  to  be  set  against  the 
numbers  ruined  bv  excessive  indulgence ;  and  this 
is  the  more  true  because  the  poorer  classes  have, 
we  believe,  the  largest  families,  and  also  drink  the 
most.  It  is  thev  who  largely  recruit  the  nation 
with  hardy  children,  and  have  no  qualms  as  to 
insufficient  incomes. 

Nor  can  we  share  the  author's  optimistic  belief 
that  **  Europeans  have  not  cut  off  any  stock  that 
showed  promise  of  a  noble  development."     The 

Erocessot  black  yielding  to  white  may  be  inevitable, 
ut  the  reasons  for  the  invasion  of  savages  appear 
to  many  minds  pretty  evidently  as  desire  for  gain. 
We  do  recognize  a  large  amount  of  feeling  against 
such  appropriations  of  territory  ;  indeed,  the  widely 
expressed  view  that  such  aggressive  x)Coplcs  are  a 
divinely  appointed  scourge  seems  specially  adapted 
to  meet  this  protest  against  extermination  of  the 
darker  peoples.  Mr.  Headley  concludes  his  most 
stimulating  volume  by  a  study  of  the  causes  and 
results  of  conservatism  in  China. 


A  OeneaJoffical  and  Historical  Dictionary  of  the 

l*ttra>ge  and  Baronetage,  dbc.     By  Sir  Bernard 

Burke.  Edited  by  Ashworth  P.  Burke.  (Harrison 

&Sons.) 

As  the  first  issue  for  the  twentieth  century,  Burke's 

*  Peerage '  for  19ul— the  most  indispensable  of  all 

works  of  the  class  to  the  genealogist,  the  historian, 

and  the  man  of  the  world— contains  an  introduction 

of  special  interest  and  value.    This  is  naturallv  the 

work  of  the  editor,  under  whose  zealous  and  loyal 

direction  the  book  has  been  much  simplified.    In 

itself  the  past  year  has  been  "phenomenally"  event- 

fuL     Proofs  of  the  havoc  for  which  war  is  partly 

responaible  meet  us  oa  ^yer^  U»»5i% 


20 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*  s.vilJas.  5.1901. 


titles  which  the  pdst  year  has  seen  exting^iiishcd  is 
that  of  the  Duke  of  Edinburgh,  which  exjiired  with 
the  decease  of  the  Duke  of  iSaxe-Coburg  and  (votha. 
Our  royal  family  has  also,  it  is  shown,  contributed 
to  the  Moloch  of  South  Africa  Prince  Christian 
Victor,  while  among  the  illustrious  dead  figure 
names  such  as  those  of  the  Dukes  of  Argyll,  Wei* 
lington,  and  Westminster,  and  others,  down  to  the 
late  Lord  Chief  Justice,  Lord  Russell  of  Killowen. 
It  is  not,  however,  with  these  ♦hat  Mr.  Ash  worth 
Burke  8i)ecialiy  concerns  himself,  though  their  dis- 
appearance, even  when  so  recent  as  that  of  the 
Larls  of  Donoughmore  and  Portarlington,  is 
necessarily  chronicled.  It  is  in  dealing  with 
the  growth  of  the  peerage,  esj)ecially  during  the 
century  which  has  this  week  expired,  that  matter 
of  greatest  interest  and  moment  is  opened  out.  A 
century  all  but  a  few  days  has  elapsed  since,  on 
22  January,  1801,  the  meeting  took  place  of  the 
first  Parliament  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Ireland.  At  that  time  — to  deal 
with  temporal  and  excluding  spiritual  peers- 
there  were  in  Garter's  roll  only  266  peers  with 
seats  in  the  House,  as  against  the  5*23  which  now 
it  comprises.  Among  those  in  the  former  list  which 
have  now  disappeared  Mr.  Burke  mentions  the 
four  royal  dukedoms  and  the  historic  titles  of 
Ancaster,  Dorset,  Bridgewater,  Buckingham,  Corn- 
wallis,  Oxford,  Chatham,  Liverpool,  St.  Vincent, 
Sackville,  and  Sydney.  It  is  pointed  out  that 
some  of  the  titles  which  now  appear  in  the  roll 
were  in  1801  under  attainder,  andT  that  others  have 
merged  in  higher  titles.  In  addition  to  these,  two 
titles  have  in  the  course  of  the  century  fallen  into 
abeyance  and  seventy  more  have  become  extinct. 
Five  titles  are  held  by  peeresses  in  their  own  right. 
The  definite  result,  when  all  allowances  have  been 
made,  is  that,  of  the  266  peers  on  the  roil  of  1801, 
155  remain  the  same  in  1901.  Once  more  it  is 
pointed  out  how  much  of  the  story  of  England  is 
told  in  names  such  as  Wellington,  Seaton,  Gough, 
Raglan,  Napier,  Wolseley,  Roberts,  Nelson,  St.  Vin- 
cent, Exmouth,  Hood,  Erskine,  Brougham,  Sid- 
mouth,  Grey,  Peel,  and  Russell,  besides  those 
which,  like  Melbourne,  Palmerston,  and  Beacons- 
field,  are  now  missing  from  the  list.  Special  atten- 
tion is  drawn  to  the  creation  of  the  dukedom  of 
Fife,  with  its  remainder,  in  case  of  default  of  male 
issue,  to  the  daughters.  Other  particulars  in  olenty 
are  given.  Meantime  the  work  retains  all  the 
features  that  have  raised  it  to  its  proud  pre- 
eminence and  render  the  mere  mention  of  its  name 
enough  to  commend  it  to  our  readers.  Its  genea- 
logy IS,  of  course,  its  special  feature.  Such  recent 
additions  as  the  key,  a  simple  and  practical  guide 
to  that  most  difficult  of  matters,  precedence,  deserve 
mention.  There  is,  in  fact,  no  respect  in  which 
change  or  improvement  is  to  be  sugg^ted  or  hoped. 

Dthrttff*  Peerage  and  Titles  of  Courtesy,    (Dean  k 

Son.) 
SuFPLYiNO  in  a  handsome  sha^ie,  fitted  for  the 
shelves  and  convenient  to  handle,  all  that  requires 
to  be  known  concerning  the  |>eerage  of  the  United 
Kingdom  and  much  supplementary  information. 
*DeDrett's  Peerage'  appeals  to  a  general  and 
necessarily  large  public.  It  is  illustrated  with  no 
fewer  than  700  armorial  bearings.  Among  special 
features  is  a  complete  list  of  high-class  London 
olubs,  with  their  addresses,  with  others  in  the 
ooantry  or  abroad  which  are  largely  frequented  by 
titled  EngliihmeiL    None  of  the  intonnation  indis- 


pensable, indeed,  to  a  trustworthy  peerage  is  want' 
ing.  In  this  case  also  many  changes  have  had  to 
1k3  made,  and  the  list  of  peers  for  the  twentieth 
century  showii  many  notable  alterations.  Debrett 
has  the  proud  privilege  of  having  been  issued  for 
one  hunared  and  eighty-eight  years. 

Whitaker^s  Ahnaiiackfor  1001, 
Is  common  with  other  annuals,  *  Whitaker's  Alma- 
nack' has  to  chronicle  many  changes.  A  new 
House  of  Commons  renders,  as  is  said,  certain  pages 
almost  unrecognizable,  and  the  sections  devoted  to 
the  peerage,  the  knightage,  and  the  service  lists 
have  been  greatly  disturbed  by  the  war.  A  sad 
feature,  which  appears  for  the  first  time,  is  the 
casualty  list  in  South  Africa,  occupying,  with 
commissioned  ofiicers  only,  sixteen  closely  printed 
columns.  An  epitomized  history  of  the  last  cen- 
tury appears  in  an  appendix,  and  miscellaneous 
statistical  tables,  many  of  high  value,  are  given  for 
the  first  time.  Not  here,  even,  does  change  end. 
Our  readers  will,  however,  be  in  a  condition  to 
judge  of  the  novelties  introduced,  since  the  work 
must  forthwith  be  in  every  hand.  A  correspondent 
points  out  that  the  information  on  ^Time'  is  not 
quite  accurate,  and  complains  about  the  index. 

The  Englishwoman's  Tear-Book  and  Directory^  1001, 

By  Emily  Janes.  (Black.) 
The  third  year  of  the  new  issue  and  the  twenty- 
first  year  of  the  general  issue  of  this  publication 
have  been  reached.  Few  alterations  in  construction 
easily  to  be  distinguished  are  apparent,  but  every 
article  has  undergone  revision  by  competent  hands, 
and  the  whole  appeals  directly  to  the  class  for 
which  it  is  intended. 


We  must  call  spedal  aUention  to  llie  following 
notices:^ 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  nam« 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub- 
lication, but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Wk  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privateljt 

To  secure  insertion  of  communications  corre* 
spondents  must  observe  the  following  rules.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answer- 
ing queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previous 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 

Rut  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exact 
eading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repeat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  com- 
munication *^  Duplicate.*' 

H.  K.  G.  ("John  Wilson.  Jun.,  Esq."). -This 
form  seems  on  the  whole  preferable  to  '*John 
Wilson,  Esq.,  Jun.,"  but  the  matter  is  optional 

J^OT/CK, 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addressed  to 
"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries '  "—Advertise- 
ments and  Business  Letters  to  "The  Publisher"— 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  ELC. 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  return 
communioatioDS  whioh,  for  any  reason,  we  do  not 
print;  and  to  thii  rule  we  qm  make  no  ezoeptioa« 


VIS.  m  jas.  6. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


7TU  A  THSNjEUU  for  Dtumber  tO  eoniaim  Ariida  on 

Tta«  KAEOMESS  DB  BODB. 

Tk*  JBW  U  LO.NDUN. 

KUURASAJi  Ud  8ISTAN. 

ALIKM8  in  SIXTBBNTH-CBNTURT  LONDON. 

TWO  BOOKS  of  F&BNCH  T&AYBL. 

Tb«  OXFORD  BMOL18U  DICTIONAKT. 

▲MONO  th«  BBKBERB  of  ALOBaiA.. 

NBW  NOVBL8 :- Jou  Xeir  of  CiaiRneU ;  Bceond  Lore. 

8PO&T8  Ud  PASTIMES. 

CUaiSTMAS  BOOKS. 

BIBLICAL  LITBRATU&B. 

BUGLIBH  and  IRISH  HISTORY. 

TALIS  of  ADVBNTURB. 

SCHOOL-BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  MBW  BOOKS. 

Tk«  BOOK  SALBS  of  1900  (   Tbe  HBAD  MA8TBRS'  COMFBRBNCB. 

Tbo  TWO  RRADFORDS  {  SALBS  -,  ROHBRT  MBLVILLBS  RIDM. 
AUO— 
LITBBABY  GOSSIP. 
BCIBIVCB:-Tli«  Ut»  oC  Pislrari  LIbmrj  ToMko ;  SoelotlMt  MootlDgB 

Next  Weok  i  OoMlp. 
FINB  ART9i-Fr«Mh  ArddUeU  ud  8evI|Aora;  Library  TaMei  Mr. 

F.  R.  PlekerHUl  >  Noim  from  Rome  s  OoMlp. 
MUSIC :— Utemrj  Table ;  OoMlp ;  Perf ormaDoee  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  I— The  Week  i  John  Sbakapeare,  of  logon,  and  OUbert,  of  St. 

RcldgeUi  Ooaaip. 


Tlu  A  TURN  MUM  for  Dtumbtr  16  coHtains  Articles  on 

UK.  LBSLIB  STBPHBN  on  the  BNOLISH  UTILITARIANS. 

A  BOOK  OB  PIKB  and  PRRCH. 

SOME  RBMINISCBNC8S  of  OXFORD. 

TIM  80URCB8  of  BNOLISH  HISTORY. 

MBW  NOVKLS :— A  Scholar  of  his  College ;  Jnlle  :  Madame  Bohemia  ; 
Mamberune  and  Namber  Two ;  Derrymoonc  (  H»t«,  tbe  DestroTer ; 
Fneadsaipaad  F11II7 ;  Tae  Vltluof  luinbeth ;  A  Woman's  Harden  •, 
A  Deiachod  Pirate  i  The  Thing*  that  coaat  -,  La  Paix  dee  Champc. 

CHRISTMAS  BOOKS. 
BOOKS  ABOUT  the  WAR. 

OUR  UBRARY  TABLB-UST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
WALTON'S    BOOKS;     MI4!l     ANN     SUSAN     HORNBRi     SALBS; 
TBXNYSON'S  POEMS;  The  COST  of  LITURGICAL  M8S. 


UTBRARY  GOSSIP. 

BCIBNCBs-ScleaUfleMannalsi  Aatronomleal  Notes ;  Soeletleei  Meet- 
ings Next  We«k  i  Gossip. 

riBB  ARTS:— The  Clnqae  Ports  1  Christmas  Books;   Art  for  the 
Narsery ;  Romaey'o  Portrait  of  John  Wesley ;  Gossip. 

MUSIC  I— The  Week ;  Goeeip  1  Perf  ormaness  Next  Week. 

IMLAMA  I— Lea  Theatres  d«  la  Poire;  Geestp. 


The  A  THENjEUM  for  Deeembir  ti  contains  Articles  on 

SIR  RUTUBRFORD  ALC1»CK  in  CHINA 

A  HIttTORY  of  BTRBPLBCHASING. 

80MB  SCOTCH  RBMINI8CBNCB8. 

PKUF.  DOWDBN'8  PURITAN  and  ANGLICAN. 

KICHBLIBU  snd  bis  INFLUENCE. 

TWO  BOOKS  on  BDVCATION. 

PAPERS  of  HENRY  VIII. 

NBW  NOVELS :-Foes  in  Law;  An  American  Woman:  Miss  CleTe* 

land's  C««mpaninn;  Son  of  Jnditta;  The  Ontcast  Emperor;  From 

the  Scoarge  of  the  Tongne. 
BOOKS  on  WAR. 
SHORT  STORIBd. 
CLASSICAL  PHILOLOGY. 
RECENT  VBKSB. 
CHRISTMAS  BOOKS. 
BOOKS  abont  SOUTH  AFRICA. 
LOCAL  HISTORY. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
IZAAK  WALTON'S  BOOKS ;    A  NBW  THBORY  as  to  HUCHOWN  | 

Tbe   DATB   of   KINO    ALFRED'S    DBATH ;    MUTILATION   oC 

EIGUTBENTH ' CBNIURY      LBTTBRS;    The    EDITING    of    a 

CLASSIC. 

Alm>- 
LITERARY  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE :-Mediesl  Books;    Geographical  Notes;  Chemical  Notes; 

Societies ;  Msetlngs  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
FIN  B  ARTS  :-f(torles  of  the  High  PrlesU  of  MemphU ;  Library  Table  t 

Annuals  -,  Cbnstmas  Itooks ;  Gossip 
MUSIC :— Lafond's  Life  of  Garat ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA :  -  Shall spearean  Literature ;  Gossip. 


The  A  THESACUMfor  December  8  contains  Articles  on 
MR.  LESLIE  STEPHEN  on  the  ENGLISH  UTILITARIANS. 
A  LIPS  Of  OB  WELL,  tbe  EXPLORER. 
A  GARDENING  BOOK. 

FRENCH  SOUUCI£S  for  EARLY  ENGUSH  HISTORY. 
NBW  NOVELS i-A  VUler's  Daughter;   A  Year  of  Life:    Lotc  in  a 

Milt;  As  a  Watch  in  the  Might:   Pride  of  England;   My  Lady 

Cinderella;  One  of  Onrselres;  The  Inimitable  Mrs.  Mssslngham  ; 

A  Rogue  in  Lure  \  The  GubUn ;  L'Henrenx  Manage. 
BOOKS  ABOUT  the  WAR. 
CHRISTMAS  BOOKS. 
BOOK8  of  TRAVEL. 
SHORT  STORIES. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB.-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 
A  RBCLAMATION;  MR.  H4RE'S  AUTOBIOGRAPHY;  The  MUTILA* 

TION    of    HUKACB    WALPOLB'8    LETrERS:    SALBS;     JOHN 

BARBOUR  and  SIR   JoHN    RAMSAY  ;    The  PRONUNCIATION 

Of  "DUDE"  in  AMERICA. 


LITBRARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE  i-Huxler's  Life ;  Societies ;  Meetings  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 

FINB  AR'i^t— Romoeyst  the  Grafton  Galleries ;  Society  of  Paiatert 

in  Water  Colours  ;  Notfs  from  Rome;  Sales;  Gossip. 
MUSIC: -The  Week;  Gossip;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  .—Helena  Faudti  Gossip. 


The  ATHENJSUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 

^OHN    C.    VBANCISk    AthenBam    Office,    Bream's  Buildings,    Chancery  Lane,  E.C* 

And  of  all  New^ager.tf. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9»^8.vii.Jan.6.i9oL 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DEPARTMENT 

TfiB  rOLLOin^O 

MAGABIHBS  AND  T  TD'D  A  "D  V    PHBTIPQ  WITHDIlAlV^  FROM 

KKVIUWS.  JLlii>£lr AJK  X     vUlliJSlM  CIKCULATIOM, 

POSl?  1GB  FRBB  to  any  part  of  the  XJaited  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

Until  further  notice :~ 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATS. 


».   d. 

7    « 

Longman's       ... 

13    0 

MacmUlan't      ...        .*. 

10    tf 

National  Keview 

16    0 

Nineteenth  Century  ... 

7    « 

Pall  Mall          

b    0 

Revue  dee  Deux  Mondet 

16    0 

Scribner't          

9    0 

Temple  Bar      

raa  AJiaua 

«.  d. 

...      6  0 

...      7  6 

...     15  0 

...     16  0 

...      8  6 

...   ao  0 

...      7  6 

...      7  6 


Argney    ...        .*.        «• • 

Blackwood's      » ». 

Oentury  

Contemporary  Review         .* *. 

ComhiU 

RiiglUh  Illustrated 

fortnightly  Review 

Harpers... 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
Edinburgh       7    6 1  Quarterly  7    6 

The  terms  will  be  U,  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Subscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  BookstaUa  to 
have  the  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  than 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAT  COMMENCE  AT  ANT  DATS. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  Railway  BoohttalU,  to  fchieh  placet  they  will  heforwao'ded  oarriage  free, 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  Pawijbe4  osm 

OBN'TURY  MAGAZINE.  The.    VoU.  17,  20.  and  2i ...   each  8  «  ...  3  6 

ATALANTA  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  6 8  0  ...  8  6 

LONDON  BOCIETY.    *J  vols.  f«>r  1891          16  0  ...  8  6 

avols.  forl^W         16  0  ...  3  « 

CASSBLL'S  MAQAZINB.    Vul.  for  December,  189.^  to  May,  1^99.    Illustrated ...  3  6 

■■ Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated        ...  3  6 

OHAMBBRS'S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURB,  SCIBNOB.  and  ARTS.    Vol.  for  1893 9  0  ...  3  6 

—  Vol.  for  1896 9  0  ...  8  6 

. Vol.  for  189ti 9  0..  3  6 

—  Vol.  for  1b97 9  0  ...  3  6 

Vol.  for  1898 •  0  ...  8  6 

' Vol.  for  1899 •  0  ...  3  6 

QUIVER  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  April.  1898 ...  8  6 

— November.  Ie9^  to  April,  1«99 ...  3  6 

May  to  uct4>b«r.  1»99          ...  3  6 

aOOD  WORDS.    Vols,  for  1888.  189i,  1894.  1895.  Ib96,  1897.  and  1898         7  6  ...  3  6 

SUNDAY  MAQAZINB.    Vols,  for  18tt9,  1892,  1894,  Ie95,  1898.  1897,  and  189i       9  0  ...  3  6 


W.  H.  SMITH  k  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186.  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Railway  Bookstalls,  to  which  places  Subscribers  can  be  traniferred,  free  of  eharge. 

ProtptetMt  of  r«niw.  Ike  s«n(  fret  upon  application  to  186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

Pilattd  tor  JOHN  BDWARO  FBANCIS,  Atkeavam  Ptsm.  Braam's  Baildlafs.  Chaaeery  I«ae.  B  a  i  aad  PoUlaked  bf 
JOSM  0.  f  AAMCU  at  Brma  I  BiUlaisfs,  Gbaaoarr  Laae,  £o.-«st«i^,  Immmr^  «» iftil.  ^ 


NOTES   AND   QUERIES: 

%  ISP^Mtrm  ol  IntercoinwttniraUon 


FOB 


LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC, 

"When  found,  make  a  note  of.*'— Captain  Cuttle. 


No.  159.  [a'AVJ.]  Saturday,  January  12,  1901.        { 4SS:,i:7JSZ^. 

OXFORD    UNIVERSITY    PRESS. 
CELTIC    FOLKLORE:    WELSH    AND    MANX. 

By  JOHN  RHYS,  M.A.  D.Litt.,  PriDcipal  of  Jesus  College,  Oxford. 
2  vols.  8vo,  2U. 

BAGHDAD  DURING  the  ABBASID  CALIPHATE.     From  Contemporary 

Arabic  and  Fenian  Souron.    By  Q.  LB  STBANOB.    With  8  Plant  (and  K«yt).    8vo,  buolcram,  gilt  top,  ie».  net. 

OLD-ENGLISH   GLOSSES.     Chiefly  UnpubUshed.     ANECDOTA   OXON- 

IRlfHIA.    Series  IV.  Fart  XI.     Bdited  by  ARTHUR  S.   NAPIBR,  M.A.  Ph.D.    Small  4to,  paper  covert.  lbt»i 
clotb.  17«.  6tf. 

STUDIES    in    EUROPEAN    LITERATURE.     The   Taylorian  Lectures, 

1H89-18M.    Delivered  by  8.  MALLARM^.  W.  PATRR,  W.  P.  KER.  H.  BROWN.  A.  MORBL-FATIO,  B.  DOWDBN, 
T.  W.  KOLLBSTON.  W.  M.  ROSiBTTI,  P.  BOURQitr,  0.  U.  UBRFORD,  and  U.  BUTLBR  OLARKB.    7«.  6d. 

A  STUDENT'S  PASTIME.     Being  a  Select  Series  of  Articles  reprinted  from 

*  Motet  and  Queriet.'    By  W.  W.  SKBAT.  Litt.D.    Crown  8vo,  7«.  6d,  net. 

MARLOWE'S  TRAGICAL  HISTORY  of  DR.  FAUSTUS,  and  GREENE'S 

HONOURABLB  HISTORY  of  FRIAR  BACON  and  FRIAR  BUNGAY.    Bdited  by  A.  W.  WARD,  Litt.D.    Fourth 
BditloD.  Rerited  and  Bnlarged.    Crown  8vo,  6s.  6d. 

mSTOSIGAL  PRIMER  of  FRENCH  PHONETICS  and  INFLECTION. 

By  M4UOARBT  8.  BRITTAIN.  M.A..  French  Lecturer  in  Victoria  College,  Belfatt.     With  Introductory  Note  by 
PAGBT  TOYNBBB,  M.A.    Bxtra  fcap.  8vo,  dotb,  2$.  id. 

A    NEW    ENGLISH    DICTIONARY    on    HISTORICAL    PRINCIPLES. 

Fonnded  mainly  on  the  Materialt  collected   by  the  Philological  Society.     Imperial  4to.     Bdited  by  J.  A.  H. 
MURRAY,  LL.D.,  and  UBNRY  BRADLBY.  M.A. 

TkmbU  Section,  QBJSEN-QYZZEBISI,  bt. ;  Complete  Fart,  QliASS-OGAOH-QYZZBBN,  lit,  6(f.    By  Mr. 
HBKBY  BRADLBY. 

Doable  SceUon,  INVAIiID— JITW,  &t.    By  Dr.  JAMBS  A.  H.  MURRAY. 
YoL  lY.,  now  ready,  containing  the  Lettert  F  and  G,  half-morocco,  21,  I2s,  6d, 


ALSO    PUBLISHED    BY    HENRY    FROWDE. 
ANTHOLOGY  of   FRENCH  POETRY,   Tenth  to  Nineteenth   Centuries. 

TrutUted  by  HBNRY  OARRINGTON.  M.A.,  Dean  of  Rocking.    Crown  8vo,  cloth.  2f.  M. 


«  « 


Complete  Catalogue  post  free  on  application. 


London:  HXNRY  FBOWPB,  Oxford  University  Press  Warehouse,  Amen  Corner^  £«C. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (9-8.vii.jak.  12.1901. 


o 


Engraved 


NK    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES. 

oa  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MOHINO. 

Feap.  4to.    Printed  direct  from  the  Orisliud  Blocks  on  Hftnd-made 
l^per,  boand  in  arUstic  boards,  li*.  M.  net. 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Engraved  on  Copper. 

By  THOMAS  MOKIMO. 

Uniform  with  the  above.    Printed  direct  from  the  Orifinal  Plates 

on  Uand-made  Paper,  2ft«.  net. 

THOMAS  MORING. 
The  De  la  More  PreM.  &i',  Hi^h  Hoi  born.  London.  W.C. 

^I^HB     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER-PAD. 

JL     (The  IJIaDJBMHALL  PRBM8.  Ltd.,  Pabilsbers  and  Printers, 
M.  LwuienhaU  Street.  I/ondon,  E.iS.t 

Contains  hairless  paper,  over  which  the  pen  alips  with  perfect 
freniom.  Sixpence  each.  t$.  per  dosen.  ruled  or  plain.  Mew  Pocket 
8ixe.  St.  per  docea,  ruled  or  plain.  ..«_,. 

Auttaun  should  note  that  The  LeadeahaU  Press,  LU.,  cnnnot  be 
fMpuaslbie  lor  the  loss  of  M»8.  by  Are  or  otaerwlse.    Duplicate  copies 


STICKPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
'Onm  for  stickiuff  In  Betmpe,  Joining  Papers.  *e.  M.  and  U.  with 
stronff.  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy).  Bend  two  stamps  to  cover  postage 
for  a  sample  BotUe,  including  Brush,  factory,  Sugar  Loaf  Court, 
LeadeaJuui  Btreat.  B.C.    of  aU  Stationers.    Stlekphast  Paste  sticks. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— SUGAR— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  W.C. 


BCHWEPPBS  ^ATBRS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  International 
Bxhlbltlon,  Paris,  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesbbda. 

THESE  WATERS  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continae  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 


/  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER  >- 
\  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS, 

ScHWEPPES,  LTD.,  LONDON,  MaLVERN, 

OLaSOOW.  laVBKPOUL.  BK18T0L.  8Y1>NBY,  and  MKLBUUUNB. 


•} 


Ij^OR  SALE,  NOTES  and  QUERIES,  from  1875 
to  Date.  25  Vols,  bound,  the  rest  unbound.— Address  offers  to 
J.  TAYLOR,  21.  Danbnry  btreet,  Isllnfton. 

HARLEIAN    MISCELLANY,  26  vols.,  nice 
condlUon.  as  issued,  1«.  — LOWES  Bookshop,  New  Street, 
Blrminfbam. 


G 


ENTLEMANLY 

SRCRETAKIAL  WORK. 


YOUTH    WANTED     for 

One  desirous  of  obtalnlnf  an  Insff he 
into  the  rouUne  of  a  frintiog  Office  prtsferred.— Applj,  or  send  parucu- 
lars,  to  F.,  Athenvum  Press.  SreAm'a  Bulldlnts,  KC. 

(^ULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

^^  for  Searches  and  Authentic  Information  reepeetiaff 

AUMOBIAL   BBARINGS   AMD  FAMILY   DBSCBMTB, 

With  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artlstle  Produettoa  of 

HBRALDIC  PAIMTING  AMD  BMORAVIMO. 

Book-Plates,  Seals,  Dies,  Bifnet  Rings.  Uivrj  Buttons.  Crasted  Nota- 

Paper,  Visiting  and  luYltation  Oards,  *«. 


02.  PICCADILLY,  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Park). 

r^ARDS  FOR  LIBRARY  CATALOGUKd. 

^  CARD  CABINETS  in  PoUshed  Oak,  fto. 

ADJUSTABLE    BOOK    SHBLVIMO, 

PAMPHLET   and    MS8.    BOXES. 
and  many  Specialities  of  Use  in  Libraries  and  Museums. 


LIBRARY   SUPPLY    CO.,    Maautseturers, 
181,  Queen  Victoria  Street,  London,  £.0. 

BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  sup- 
pUed,  no  matter  on  what  Subjeet.  Acknowledged  the  world  over 
as  th«  musi  expert  Boukilnders  e&tant.  Pleu«  tteie  wante.— BAKMH'8 
Great  Bookshop,  14-10.  John  Bright  Street.  Birmiagham. 

AGENCY  FOR  AMBfUCAN  BOOKS. 

GP.   PUTNAM'S  SONS,   PUBLISHERS   and 
•  BOOKSBLLERS. 

of  27  and  29,  West  SSrd  Street,  New  York,  and  S4.  BEDFORD  STREET, 
LONDON,  W.C,  desire  to  call  the  atteaUon  of  the  READING 
PUBLIC  to  the  excellent  facilities  presented  bj  (heir  Branch  House  la 
London  for  liUing,  on  the  most  fsTourable  terms,  orders  for  their 
own  STANDARD  PUBLICATIONS,  and  for  ALL  AMERICAN 
BOOKS. 

Catalogues  sent  on  applleatioa. 


ATHEN^UM     PRESS.— JOHN    EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  Atkmmum.  Notes  mnd  OtMrte*,  *e..  I 
praparwi  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  all  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEWS 
and    PERIODICAL   PRINTING.—U.  Bream's   Buildings,   Chaaoery 
Lane,  RC. 


THE    DAWN    OF    A    NEW    CBNTUBY 
SHOULD    SEE   EVERY    ONE   POSSESSED    OF 


DEBRETT'S 


PEERAGE  (witli  Index  to  Courtesy  Titles), 
BARONETAGE  (witli  Index), 
KMIQHTAGE  and  COMPANION  AGE, 
1901  EDITION  NOW  READY. 
Increased  to  over  2,000  p«tffet.    Includes  all  recent  Honours,  the  numerous  alterations  caused  by  the  Boer  War  and  a 
Ueneral  Election.    An  Appendix  of  Uoyal  Warrant  Holders.    Cloth  gilt,  31«.  Hd, ;  or  in  3  volt.  ltf«.  Otf.  eSfOh 

1901  EDITION  NOW  READY. 
DEBRETT'S    WAISTCOAT    POCKET    DIARY. 

TUK  HANDIKST  DIABY  FOK  THB  POCKET.    Scarlet  paste  grain,  gilt  edgee,  U 

London:  DEAN  6c  SON,  Limited,  160a,  Fleet  Street,  E.C. 


9^  8.  viL  Jak.  12. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


21 


LOSDON,  SATURDAY,  JANUAHY  if.  190U 


CONTENTS. -No.  150. 

90TBS :— Bthiopic  *  History  of  the  Blessed  Men.'  21  -  Shake- 
speariftiUL,  22~Lotterie8 — Btymology— Best  Book  of  the 
Nineteenth  Century.  23— Regiments  at  Culloden— Snuff — 
*  D.N.B.'  and  Portraits.  24~BattIe  of  Fontenoy— Barliest 
Printed  Bulogy  of  Sliakespeare.  2o— Papers  of  1796— 
Indexes  to  *N.  ft  Q..'  26  — Voluntary  Mutilations  in 
France— Moon  Lore,  27. 

QUBRIBS  :~King's  Preachers  of  Bdward  VI.— QuoUtion— 
Sir  W.  F.  Carroll  — Lines  on  the  Skin— Date  Wanted— 
Genealogical  Trees  — Col.  Williams  —  Boulder  Stones  — 
Grierson  of  Dublin.  27  —  "  Roker  "  —  Teddye  Family  — 
Flogging  at  the  Cart  Tall  — Thomas  Scott— Nicholson— 
••  Codrington  "  —  *•  Churmagdes  "  —  "  Peaky  -  blinder  "  — 
Surnames  —  Sir  J.  Douglas  —  Arundel :  Walden— Scotch 
Names  in  Froissart.  28— Norman  Architecture— Sainthill 
Family— "Petering"  — Memoirs  of  Methodists  —  Flower 
Divination— Messiter—**Twopenny  Tube  "— '•  Thackeray's 
bed  books  "—Hawkins  Family  —  Btymology  —  Poem  by 
Dr.  Hatch—**  In  the  swim  "— AIsopp,  29. 

RBPLIBS  :-Passage  in  Chaucer.  30— Installation  of  a  Mid- 
wife. 31—*  Go  to  the  Devil.'  Ac.— Pitched  Battle.  33— Max 
Mttiler  and  Westminster  Abbey—"  Frail "— **  Blackstrap  " 
—The  Title  of  Bsquire.  .33— Yeomanry  Beoords— Grave  of 
George  Heriot— Sir  R.  Moray— Rev.  T.  Campbell— **  John 
Company  "—Baster  Magiant,  34— Author  and  Reference 
for  Verses— Watch-chain  Ornament  — Ballywhaine— Date 
of  Cmciflxion— "  Let  them  all  come  "—Nature  Myths.  35 
—George  Abbott^  M.P.—**  Gallimaufry  "—Acbill  Island. 
36— J.  Mervin  Nooth  — Julius  Cssar.  37  — The  Penny— 
Margtrry,  34. 

ROTIIS  OH  BOOKS :-Bllis's  Lorris  and  Clopinel's  'Ro- 
mance of  the  Rose'  —  * Photograms '  —  ** Useful  Arts" 
Series—*  Man  '—Reviews  and  Magazines. 

Notices  to  Correspondents. 


THE   ETHIOPIC   'HISTORY  OF  THE 

BLESSED  MEN.' 
As  a  pendant  to  the  Syriac  history  of 
Zozimus,  by  Jacob  of  Edessa  (9^*>  S.  vi.  261), 
the  'History  of  the  Blessed  Men  who  lived  in 
Uie  Days  of  Jeremiah  the  Prophet '  is  note- 
worthy. This  has  been  translated  from  the 
Ethiopic  by  Dr.  E.  A.  Wallis  Budge,  and  is 
included  in  his  "Life  of  Alexander  the  Great 

a  Series  of  Translations  of  the  Ethiopic 

Histories"  (London,  18(K)).  According  to  this 
narrative,  when  Zedekiah,  the  wicked  king, 
made  an  idol^  Jeremiah  was  sent  to  rebuke 
him.  The  king  caused  the  prophet  to  be 
cast  into  a  pit,  from  which  he  was  rescued, 
and  removed  the  sacred  objects  from  the 
ark  in  the  Temple.  Then  Jeremiah  and 
the  saints  of  Jerusalem  were  carried  by 
the  aogels  to  an  island  in  the  sea,  where 
there  was  a  mountain  in  which  there  was 
no  pain,  sorrow,  hunger,  cold,  fiery  he>at, 
injustice,  &c.,  but  love  and  peace  between 
every  man  and  his  fellow.  Whilst  this 
fiuthfal  remnant  enjoyed  the  felicity  of  the 
Fortunate  Xdee^  Darius  sent  the  Jews  back 


to  Jerusalem.  Then  he  was  conquered  by 
Alexander,  the  two-horned,  who  demanded 
from  the  priests  and  people  the  scarlet 
cloak,  the  symbol  of  royalty  of  the  kings 
of  Judah.  This  was  refused,  but,  after 
slaying  the  priests,  Alexander  wore  the  cloak 
for  three  days  and  then  laid  it  down  again. 
Alexander  visited  the  Island  of  the  Blessed. 
The  inhabitants  there  told  him  they  were  of 
the  people  of  Israel,  of  the  tribes  of  Levi  and 
Judah,  and  kinsmen  of  Jeremiah.  They 
lived  upon  the  fruit  of  the  trees,  which 
Alexander  saw  laden  with  fruit.  Few  details 
are  given  here,  but  they  are  supplied  at  a 
later  point  in  the  history  of  a  monk  called 
Qerlisimas,  who  lived  in  a  cave  near  Jordan, 
and,  having  read  in  the  '  Book  of  Alexander  * 
of  the  saints  in  the  Fortunate  Islands,  had  a 
strong  desire  to  visit  them.  After  many 
prayers,  an  angel  was  sent  to  be  his  guide ; 
and  when  he  was  weary  of  walking  a  lion 
carried  him  to  a  sea,  and  thence  he  was 
transported,  in  the  same  fashion  as  Zozimus, 
to  the  island.  The  remainder  of  the  story 
closely  resembles  the  Syriac  narrative.  The 
land  is  without  pain,  and  by  some  miraculous 
second  sight  the  blessed  men  "have  seen  and 
known"  the  events  in  far-off  Palestine— the 
Annunciation,  the  slaughter  of  the  Innocents, 
the  Crucifixion,  and  thespreacl  of  Christianity. 
After  the  long  conversation  in  which  all  this 
is  set  forth,  Gerasim&s  goes  to  his  appointed 
dwelling-place,  and  in  the  morning  says  to 
his  host,  "If  the  blessed  come  to  seek  me, 
say  unto  them,  *  Gter&simas  is  not  here  with 
me.*"  This  instigation  to  falsehood  excites 
indignation,  and  Gerasimas  has  to  return  to 
his  own  land,  where  he  writes  an  account  of 
his  travels.  The  further  details  as  to  the 
sinless  life  of  the  people  of  the  Blessed 
Islands  are  practically  identical  in  the  two 
narratives ;  but  the  setting  is,  as  will  be  seen, 
quite  different,  and  in  the  Ethiopic  story  the 
Ilechabites  are  not  named.  The  Greek  re- 
cension of  the  narrative  of  Zozimus  is  printed 
in  the  'Anecdota  Apocrypha'  (1893)  of  Mr. 
M.  R.  James,  and  an  English  translation  by 
Mr.  W.  A.  Craigie  appears  in  the  supple- 
mentary volume  of  the  "  Ante-Nicene  Chris- 
tian Library  "  (1897).  There  are  versions  in 
Slavonic,  Ethiopic,  and  Arabic,  as  well  as  in 
Syriac.  The  Slavonic  identifies  the  Blessed 
Men  as  Brachmani. 

Dr.  Wallis  Budge's  collection  of  Alexander 
traditions — in  which  the  Macedonian  is  some- 
times transformed  into  a  Christian  monarch — 
is  a  remarkable  volume.  The  student  of 
folk-lore  and  legend  will  find  in  it  a  mine  of 
interesting  matter.     William  £.  A.  Axon. 

Manobester. 


22 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [y**  s.  vii.  jax.  12,  looi. 


SHAKESPEARIAN  A. 

*  As  You  him  It;  IL  vii.  m-7  (H^  H.  w  03, 
283,  362  ;  vii.  £03  ;  9^^  S.  vi.  364).— 
He  that  a  fool  doth  very  wiiely  hit 

Doth  very  foolishly,  a!tlio«^h  Jie  ijmart. 
Seem  «euso!esii  of  tlie  Iwb ;  if  not. 
The  wise  mnu'A  folly  is  nDatomLzu^d 
Even  by  tliu  &qtmndenng  glances  of  the  fool. 

Leat  any  reaikrs  new  to  *  N.  *k  Q*/  from  the 
want  of  references  at  the  last  i-eference  given 
above,  should  suppose  that  the  passage  under 
review  had  not  been  previously  diacusaed^  I 
have  supplied  Me.  E.  Meeton  Dey's  omui- 
si  on. 

I  am  glad  to  find  that  he  thinks  with  rae 
C8t»i  S.  V.  362)  that  Theobald's  addition  in  not 
necessary  on  the  score  of  being  needed  to 
supply  the  place  of  a  ]ackin|E  foot^  the  want 
of  tne  foot  neing  already  sufhciently  supplied 
by  a  pause.  He  differ*  fi\>m  ine  m  placing 
the  pause  after  "bob."  No  doubt  wg  have 
the  ordinary^  pause  after  a  colon  there ;  bot, 
dear  me*  if  the  ordinary  pause  marked  with 
a  colon  wei-e  sufticient  to  supply  the  place  of 
a  foot,  we  should  have  lines  of  four  feet  by 
the  hundred  I  1  placed  the  prfus©  at  the  end 
of  the  line,  the  very  elliptical  expression 
**if  not"  making  a  lengthened  pause  both 
natural  and  necessary  there.  I  heartily  con- 
gratulate Mr,  Det  on  his  very  original  and 
very  ingenious  argument  that  witti  or 
witnout  Tlieoljald's  addition  the  meaning  of 
the  passage  U  the  same.  Paradoxical  though 
this  seems,  and  as  at  first  perusal  of  his  note 
1  thoujjht  it^  ho  proves  to  demonstration  the 
proposition  which  he  announces  in  these 
terms :  "  The  one  reading  is  an  atBrmative, 
the  other  a  negative  statement  of  the  same 
thought,"  At  the  same  time  1  am  glad  that, 
while  proving  that  Theobald 'a  innovation  is 
not  the  nonsense  which  some,  and  I  among 
them,  thought  and  called  it^  Mr,  Bey  gives 
his  vote  in  favour  of  the  original  text 

a  M,  Spence,  D.D, 

Manse  of  Arbuthnott,  N,B. 

Me,  Meeton  Dey,  after  quoting  Johnson's 
interpretation  of  this  much-vexed  passage, 
proceeds,  "With  the  meaning  practically 
settled,"  4rc.  I  beg  to  demur  to  this  entirely. 
I  have  never  understood  how  Johnson  and 
other  critics  could  thus  turn  the  argument 
upside  down.  The  key  to  the  argument*  as 
in  many  other  difHcult  passages,  is  supplied 
by  the  context.  For  it  is  an  answer  to 
Jaques's  own  question,  **  Why  must  they  most 
laugh  who  are  most  galled  by  the  fool's 
lolly  i "  Why  1  Because  if  they  pretend  not 
to  notice  the  hit,  the  fool  will  lay  thetr  folly 
bare  by  hm  squaadering  glances  to  the  eom^ 


pany.  The  argument  being  abundantly  clear, 
it  is  strange  that  so  many  critics  should 
import  into  the  text  what  is  not  there,  with 
the  rej^ult  that  the  speaker  is  made  to  stultify 
himself  completely.       Holcombe  Inoledy* 

*  Kim  Heney  v./  V.  ii.  12  (Queen  laabera 

speech  to  Henry  at  the  conference  to  discuss 
the  terms  of  pcace),"The  First  Folio  reads  : 
So  hajjpy  bo  the  insue,  brother  Ireland, 
Of  this  good  day  and  of  this  gracious  mei^ting^ 

For  "  Ireland,"  which  is  pure  nonsense,  the 

^cond  Folio  (followed  by  the  Third  and 
Fourth,  and  by  all  subsequent  editions)  reads 
"England."  But  if  Shakespeare  wrote  this, 
by  wliat  conoeivable  freak  of  transcriber  or 
compositor  could  a  reading  so  simple  and 
intelligibte  have  been  tortured  into  the 
"  Ireland  "  of  the  Folio  ?  There  is  nothing  ia 
the  context  to  suggest  or  to  explain  such  & 
blunder,  and  the  natural  inference  therefore 
ia  that  the  corruption  conceals  the  original 
text  I  olfer  the  suggestion  that  the  play 
house  MS*,  from  which  Ueminge  and  Cond^ 
printed  this  play,  read 

8o  happy  be  the  kane  to  our  land. 
"To  our  land,"  illegibly  written,  might   be 
misread  b^h  ** Ireland *'i  "brother"  would  then 
be  inserted  jmtri  ffratm  from  the  preceding 
speech  of  the  French  king  :— 

Eight  joyous  aro  we" to  behold  your  face, 

Most  worthy  brother  England, 

Percy  Simpsok 

*The  Wintee's  Tale,'  L  ii.  138-43,  — In 
these  reflections  the  kin^  is  endeavounng  to 
prove  to  liimself  that  hm  perception  i*^  qoI 
at  fault— that  love  lends  him  the  power  to 
disco^'er  the  truth  : — 

ASeetloD  1  thy  intention  stabfl  the  contre. 
Nothing  can  remain  hidden  from  the  search- 
ing power  of   love  — from  its   penetrating 
intensity  : — 

Thou  doit  make  possible  things  not  to  held. 
Com  muni  catest  with  dreams. 

Even  the  apparently  impossible  iflcompa«sedt 
as  when  in  dreams  the  spirit  seems  to  anni- 
hilate time  and  space  in  its  quest  for  know- 
ledge regarding  a  loved  one.    As  an  illustra- 
tion of  the  poet's  thought  may  be  instanced 
the  prophet  J  c  dream  of  Calpurnia  (*  Julius 
Gsesar,'  II.  ii.X  wherein  she  tnrice  cried  out^ 
"  Help,  ho  !  they  murder  C^sar  !  **    Leontes 
had  been  a  prey  to  jealous  fancies  in  his 
dreams,  which  now  occur  to  him  ia  the  ligbt 
of  a  revelation  :^ 
With  what^ii  unreal  thou  coaotivtt  art, 
Aod  fellow' st  nothing  t  then  'ti»  very  credent 
Thou  niayst  co-join  with  something. 

Affection  has  the  power  to  aijcompliih  tfaiq 


9»8.viljan.12,)90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


28 


when  coactive  with  such  unrealitiesas  dreams ; 
then  it  is  very  credent  that  it  is  able  to 
arrive  at  the  truth  when  it  has  something 
real,  such  as  actions  and  the  like,  to  deal 
with. 

We  have  a  hint  in  these  lines  that  the 
jealousy  of  Leontes,  which  has  appeared  to 
be  the  growth  of  a  moment,  really  antedates 
the  present  time  in  half -suspicions  arising 
from  uncomfortably  vivid  dreams. 

E.  Mkrton  Dby. 

•The  Winter's  Tale,'  II.  i.  174-9.— 

CaraiUo*B  flight, 
Added  to  their  familiarity 
(Which  was  as  gross  as  ever  touched  conjecture, 
That  lack'd  sight  only,  nought  for  approbation 
But  only  seeing,  all  other  circumstances 
Made  up  to  the  deed),  doth  push  on  this  proceeding. 

The  note  in  the  *New  Variorum'  is  as 
follows : — 

**  *  Coniecture  *  is  the  subject  of  *  touch'd,'  not  the 
object.  Their  familiarity  was  as  clear  as  conjecture 
could  reach,  that  lacked  no  proof  but  sight. 
8chmidt  here  interprets  *  touch  by  move,  aroi«e, 
with  *  conjecture'  in  the  accusative.  But  it  was 
Dot  the  grossness  which  aroused  conjecture,  but 
conjecture  that  estimated  the  amount  of  grossness." 

For  the  king's  idea  as  expressed  by  "fami- 
liarity" we  should  go  bact  to  I.  ii.  108-18, 
"  paddling  palms,"  ibc.  This  the  king  saw,  or 
imagined  he  saw,  and  his  suspicions  were 
aroused  thereby.  That  which  *Mack'd  sight 
only"  was  "the  deed."  It  was  with  the 
criminal  act  that "  conjecture  "  was  concerned. 
The  thought  is  confused  by  taking  "fami- 
liarity," as  Dr.  Fumess  does,  to  mean  a 
supposed  criminal  relation.  It  is  the  criminal 
relation  which  is  to  be  established  by  "  this 
proceeding";  but  "their  [gross]  familiarity," 
so  Leontes  tells  us,  is  one  of  the  proofs  of 
such  guilt,  "Camillo's  flight  "being  the  other. 
As  the  proof  cannot  be  the  same  thing  as 
that  which  is  to  be  proved,  we  see  that 
"^imiliarity  "must  be  restricted  to  the  mean- 
ing plainly  indicated  by  the  king— the  acts 
that  aroused  suspicion,  "touch'd  conjecture." 
These  acts,  in  themselves  suflScient  proof  to 
the  king,  "lack'd  sight  only"  of  one  more, 
"the  d«Bd."  The  suggested  inversion  could 
have  been  obviated  so  easily — "as  e'er  con- 
jecture touch'd  " — that  one  must  believe  the 
present  reading  cannot  have  this  meaning. 
E.  Meeton  Dey. 

St  Louis. 

Lottbbies.— It  may  be  worth  notice  that 
the  royal  proclamation,  "Imprinted  at  London 
in  Pater  noster  Rowe,  by  Henrie  Bvnneman," 
as  to  "A  very  rich  Lotterie ^enerall,  without 
9BjrBlaBckeB.,....towardea  the  repantion  ot 


the  Hauens,  and  strength  of  the  Kealme,"* 
really  belongs  to  the  ninth  year  of  Elizabeth 
(for  which  year  Lord  Crawford's  *  Handlist  * 
gives  no  entry).  The  copy  in  the  Bodleian  is 
an  example  of  one  of  the  two  editions  of  "  a 
Chart  thereof  [$c,  of  the  lottery]  published  in 
August,  1567,"  referred  to  in  a  proclamation 
of  9  Jan.,  1568[-9l  A  copy  of  the  other 
edition  is  transcribed  by  A.  J.  Kempe  in 
'The  Loseley  MSS.'  (1836),  pp.  188  $qq.  Not 
only  is  the  imprint  completed  by  the  words 
"anno  1567,"  but  also  the  chart  is  headed 
with  a  most  gorgeous  woodcut,  some  20  in. 
by  12}.  Mr.  Kempe  gives  a  reproduction  of 
this  enticing  representation  ot  the  prizes — 
plate,  money .  and  tapestry— as  a  frontispiece 
to  his  book.  Several  other  documents  relating 
to  the  lottery  of  1567-9  are  reprinted  by  Mr. 
Kempe ;  and  he  has  a  note  on  some  other  early 
lotteries  which  will  repay  perusalj  to  say 
nothing  of  a  most  charming  selection  from 
the  ** posies"  of  the  "adventurers." 

O.  O.  H. 

Etymology  and  Whist.-— In  some  respects 
etymology  is  not  unlike  whist.  It  is  of  no 
use  to  play  at  it  till  you  have  learnt  the 
rules  of  the  game.  A  novice  may  win  a  trick 
when  he  holds  the  cards:  that  is  to  say, 
when  the  facts  are  accessible  and  the  deduc- 
tion is  obvious.  A  skilful  player  may  be 
baffled  when  the  cards  are  against  him  ;  that 
is  to  say,  when  the  facts  of  the  case  are 
obscure  or  indiscoverable.  But  he  knows 
better  than  to  play  the  fool. 

A  simple  instance  may  suffioa  Given  the 
Latin  forms  cedere,  cessunij  cessdre,  and  the 
French  cesser,  and  a  novice  may  easily  guess 
at  the  origin  of  the  English  verb  cease.  But 
he  may  easily  come  to  grief,  in  company 
with  Dr.  Johnson,  over  the  word  surcease.  It 
is  not  derived,  as  he  says,  from  F.  sur  and 
cesser^  but  is  connected  with  the  F.  sursis,  a 
delay  or  respite,  being  derived  from  the 
Latin  sufyersedere.  Several  of  our  authors 
have  been  caught  in  this  pitfall. 

Waltee  W.  Skeat. 

The  Best  Book  of  the  Nineteenth  Cen- 
TUEY.— This  is  an  invidious  topic,  but  Sir  W. 
Besant  has  faced  it  in  Harmsworth's  Magazine^ 
and  others  may  scent  quarry  as  well  as  he. 
The  good  knight  awards  the  palm  to  Carlyle's 
*Past  and  Present,'  but  in  so  doing  tilts 
against  a  windmill.  The  superiority  of  a 
book  (as  of  all  things'!  must  be  relative,  and 
therefore  restricted.  Influence  is  Sir  Walter's 
scale,  but  this,  too,  is  of  necessity  limited.    By 

•  Copies  of  wVikYv  «ktfe  Vn  V>ckft  "^cvSKs^  ^x»w«xft.^ 
Bodleian,  and  Quwitfa  CoW  <io\Vi^\ASK»  cS.\.w2yKSB»c 
tions. 


24 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9-»  s.  vil  jak.  12, 1901. 


"best"  I  presume  is  meant  most  superior  and 
influential,  but  which  is  the  book  combining 
these  qualities  ?  Surely  not  any  of  Carlyle's 
books.  Superior  they  are  in  cleverness,  self- 
assertion,  dojrmatism,  and  ni*edless  obscurity 
of  style ;  influential,  too,  within  a  certain, 
but  limited  area ;  but  overtop  all  others  by 
either  quality  they  most  assuredly  do  not. 
Moreover,  influence  spells  popularity,  and 
no  single  book  Carlyle  ever  penne<l  was  or 
possibly  could  be  popular.  If  popularity  be 
the  measure  of  best-ness,  then  Carlyle  never 
has  had,  nor  will  have,  any  chance  in  the 
race  with  Scott  and  Macaulay  and  Dickens  as 
competitors.  Their  grooves  may  differ  from 
his,  but  the  test  is  there  all  the  same- 
superiority  of  wider  influence.  Nor  is  the 
test  of  matter  less  conclusive.  Ruskin 
appnmches  him  nearest  under  this  head,  and 
assuredly  the  radius  of  his  influence  is  less 
restricted  than  Carlyle's.  Has  not  society 
been  captivated  from  base  to  summit  by 
his  peerless  eloquence,  or  the  simplicity  of 
his  diction,  or  the  wisdom  of  his  ethics? 
*  The  Stones  of  Venice '  has  impressed  a  mul- 
titude where  *Past  and  Present'  has  in- 
terested a  group.  But  I  am  far  from  maintain- 
ing that  even  Buskin's  works  are  the  "best "  of 
the  centur>.  They  are  so  of  their  kind,  as 
Carlyle's  are  of  his,  and  Darwin's  and  New- 
man^s  and  Tennyson's  are  of  theirs.  But  no 
one  book  of  any  one  author  focuses  in  itself  all 
the  excellences  of  all  other  books— the  bril- 
liancy of  Macaulay,  the  grasp  and  range  of 
Gladstone,  the  poetry  of  Keats,  and  the 
supreme  use  of  language  of  Ruskin.  I  confine 
the  inquiry  to  English  nineteenth-century 
literature.  And  yet  Sir  Walter's  thesis 
demands  such  predicates.  Had  he  qualified 
it  as  sui  generis  only,  I  had  no  dispute  with 
it ;  because  he  formulates  it  uneaui vocally  I 
demur  to  it.  Unique  of  its  kind  *Past  and 
Present'  undoubtedly  is  (as  is  *  Sartor  lle- 
sartus ') ;  the  best  book  of  the  century  it 
undoubtedly  is  not— either  in  matter,  influ- 
ence, or  style.  The  theory  that  it  \h  so  is  as 
untenable  as  the  now  famous  **  hundred  best 
books  "  contention.  The  best  book,  or  num- 
ber of  books,  of  the  century  is  that,  or  are 
those,  which  appeals  or  appeal  most  to  each 
reader  individually.  J.  B.  McGovern. 

St.  Stephcu's  Rectory,  C.-on-M.,  Manchester. 

[Such  discussions  arc,  we  think,  rather  futile.] 

Regiments  at  Culloden.— As  the  recently 

published  works  of  Mr.  Lang  and  Mr.  Terry 

give   no  clue  to   the  moflern   numerical   or 

territorm]    designations    of    the    regiments 

ivhich  took  part  in  the  battle  of  Culloden,  I 

Mro  drawn  up  the  following  list,  M'hich  may 


prove  useful  to  some  readers  of  *  N.  <k  O.'  (i 
IS  noteworthy  that  both  Mr.  Lang  ana  Mr 
Terry  write  "  Blyth  "  for  Bligh)  :—B.umnhre\ 
Bland  s  Dragoons,  3rd  Hussars  ;  Cobnam  i 
Drag(X>ns,  lOth  Hussars  ;  I^rd  Mark  Ker? 
Dragoons,  11th  Hussars  ;  St.  Clair's  Roya 
Regiment.,  1st  Royal  Scots,  Midlothian 
Howard's  Regiment,  3rd,  the  Buffs,  Easi 
Kent ;  Barrel I's,  4th,  Royal  Lancaster 
Wolfe's,  8th,  Liverpool  ;  Pultene^^'s,  13th 
Somersetshire  ;  Price's,  14th,  West\orkshire 
Bligh's,  20th,  Lancashire ;  Campl^ell's,  21st 
Scots  Fusiliei-s,  Ayr  ;  Sempill's,  25th,  Scottish 
Borderers  ;  Blakeney's,  27th,  Inniskilling 
Fusiliers  ;  Cholmondeley's,  34th,  Border 
Carlisle ;  Fleming's,  36th,  Worcestershire 
Monro's,  37th,  Hamj)shire ;  Ligonier's,  48th 
Northamptonshire.  James  Wolfe,  the  future 
hero  of  Quebec,  was  not  in  his  father's  regi- 
ment, the  8th,  but  was  at  Culloden  as  a 
captain  in  the  4th  Regiment,  and  employed 
on  the  staff  as  brigade  major.  His  account 
of  the  battle  is  to  be  found  in  Wright's  *  Life 
of  Wolfe,'  p.  84.  He  has  been  represented  b\ 
some  writers  as  a  lieutenant-colonel  at  Cul- 
loden, but  he  was  not  even  a  major  until 
1749.  W.  S. 

Snuff.  (See  9'*»  S.  vi.  460.)— The  opinion 
expressed  at  the  above  reference,  to  the  effect 
that  snutiing  is  "a  filthy  habit,"  recalls  twci 
passages  in  the  *  Memoirs  of  Eighty  Yeai-s, 
by  the  late  phvsician  and  "  parable- poet,' 
Dr.  Gordon  Hake.  At  p.  104  he  tells  a 
sparkling  anecdote,  showing  how  George  IV. 
illustrate  the  method  of  cleanly  snuff-taking : 
and  at  p.  228  he  describes  his  own  *' snuff- 
mull  "  —  one  presented  to  him  in  187r)  by 
Rossetti,  and  now,  undoubtedly,  duly  prizecl 
as  an  heirloom— and  then  defends  snufiing 
with  a  certain  air  of  scientific  reasonableness. 
He  says : — 

"And  would  you  know  the  reason  of  niy  per- 
Histence  in  takinf?  snuff?  It  not  only  wakes  u|i 
that  torj)or  so  jirevalent  between  the  nose  and 
the  hrain,  making  the  winKS  of  an  idea  uncurl  like 
those  of  a  new-norn  butterfly,  but  while  others 
sneeze,  and  run  at  the  eyes  and  nose,  my  schneiderian 
membrane  is  im))ervious  to  weather,  or,  to  be 
explicit,  I  never  take  cold  in  my  head." 

As  a  transcript  from  experience  this  has  a 
value  of  its  own,  for  although,  as  a  matter  of 
course,  there  is  an  element  of  waywardness 
in  the  passage,  it  is  not  mere  chaff  and 
nothing  more.  Thomas  Bayne. 

*  Dictionary  of  National  Biography  '  and 
Portraits.— The  *  D.X.B.'  is  a  model  of  what 
such  a  work  should  be,  and  now  that  it  is 
completed  a  separate  alphabetical  index  of 


«»&viljan.i2.i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


28 


when  coactive  with  such  unrealities  as  dreams ; 
then  it  is  very  credent  that  it  is  able  to 
arrive  at  the  truth  when  it  has  something 
rea],  such  as  actions  and  the  like,  to  deed 
with. 

We  have  a  hint  in  these  lines  that  the 
lealousy  of  Leontes,  which  has  appeared  to 
be  the  growth  of  a  moment,  really  antedates 
the  present  time  in  half-suspicions  arising 
from  uncomfortably  vivid  dreams. 

E.  Merton  Dst. 

*The  Winter's  Tale,'  II.  i.  174-9.— 

Caiuillo's  flight, 
Added  to  their  familiarity 
(Which  was  as  gross  as  ever  touched  conjecture, 
That  lack'd  sight  only,  nought  for  approbation 
But  only  seeing,  all  other  circumstances 
Made  up  to  the  deed),  doth  push  on  this  proceeding. 

The  note  in  the  *New  Variorum'  is  as 
follows  : — 

•*  •Coniectare*  is  the  subject  of  *  touched,'  not  the 
object.  Their  familiarity  was  as  clear  as  conjecture 
could  reach,  that  lacked  no  proof  but  sight. 
Schmidt  here  interprets  *  touch  by  move,  aroiue, 
with  *  conjecture'  in  the  accusative.  But  it  was 
Dot  the  grossness  which  aroused  conjecture,  but 
conjecture  that  estimated  the  amount  of  grossness.'' 

For  the  king's  idea  as  expressed  by  "  fami- 
liarity" we  should  go  back  to  I.  ii.  108-18, 
"  paddling  palms,"  &c.  This  the  king  saw,  or 
imagined  he  saw,  and  his  suspicions  were 
aroused  thereby.  That  which  *Hack'd  sight 
only"  was  "the  deed."  It  was  with  the 
criminal  act  that "  conjecture  "  was  concerned. 
The  thought  is  confused  by  taking  "fami- 
liarity," as  Dr.  Fumess  does,  to  mean  a 
supposed  criminal  relation.  It  is  the  criminal 
relation  which  is  to  be  established  by  "  this 
proceeding";  but  "their  [gross]  familiarity," 
80  Leontes  tells  us,  is  one  of  the  proofs  of 
such  guilt,  "  Camillo's  flight" being  the  other. 
As  the  proof  cannot  be  the  same  thing  as 
that  which  is  to  be  proved,  we  see  that 
"familiarity  "  must  be  restricted  to  the  mean- 
ing plainly  indicated  by  the  king— the  acts 
that  aroused  suspicion,  "touch'd  conjecture." 
These  acts,  in  themselves  sufficient  proof  to 
the  king,  "lack'd  sight  only"  of  one  more, 
"the  deed."  The  suggested  inversion  coulcl 
have  been  obviated  so  easily — "as  e'er  con- 
jecture touch'd  "—that  one  must  believe  the 
present  reading  cannot  have  this  meaning. 
E.  Merton  Dey. 

St.  Louis. 

Lotteries. — It  may  be  worth  notice  that 
the  royal  proclamation, "Imprinted  at  London 
in  Fkter  noster  Rowe,  by  Henrie  Bynneman," 
as  to  "*  A  very  rich  Lotterie  generall,  without 
sny  Blaackes towardes  the  reparation  of 


the  Hauens,  and  strength  of  the  Realme,"* 
really  belongs  to  the  ninth  year  of  Elizabeth 
(for  which  year  Lord  Crawford's  *  Handlist  * 
gives  no  entry).  The  copy  in  the  Bodleian  is 
an  example  of  one  of  the  two  editions  of  "  a 
Chart  thereof  [$c.  of  the  lottery]  published  in 
August,  1567,"  referred  to  in  a  proclamation 
of  9  Jan.,  1568[-9l.  A  copy  of  the  other 
edition  is  transcribed  by  A.  J.  Kempe  in 
*  The  Loseley  MSS.'  (1836),  pp.  188  sqq.  Not 
only  is  the  imprint  completed  by  the  words 
"anno  1567,"  but  also  the  chart  is  headed 
with  a  most  gorgeous  woodcut,  some  20  in. 
by  12j.  Mr.  Kempe  gives  a  reproduction  of 
this  enticing  representation  ot  the  prizes — 
plate,  money,  and  tapestry— as  a  frontispiece 
to  his  book.  Several  other  documents  relating 
to  the  lottery  of  1567-9  are  reprinted  by  Mr. 
Kempe ;  and  he  has  a  note  on  some  other  early 
lotteries  which  will  repay  perusal,  to  say 
nothing  of  a  most  charming  selection  from 
the  ** posies"  of  the  "adventurers." 

O.  O.  H. 

Etymology  and  Whist.— In  some  respects 
etymology  is  not  unlike  whist.  It  is  of  no 
use  to  play  at  it  till  you  have  learnt  the 
rules  of  the  game.  A  novice  may  win  a  trick 
when  he  holds  the  cards :  that  is  to  say, 
when  the  facts  are  accessible  and  the  deduc- 
tion is  obvious.  A  skilful  player  may  be 
baffled  when  the  cards  are  against  him  ;  that 
is  to  say,  when  the  facts  of  the  case  are 
obscure  or  indiscoverable.  But  he  knows 
better  than  to  play  the  fool. 

A  simple  instance  may  suffice.  Given  the 
Latin  forms  cedere,  cessuiUj  cessdre,  and  the 
French  cesser^  and  a  novice  may  easily  guess 
at  the  origin  of  the  English  verb  cease.  But 
he  may  easily  come  to  grief,  in  company 
with  Dr.  Johnson,  over  the  word  surcease.  It 
is  not  derived,  as  he  says,  from  F.  sur  and 
cesser,  but  is  connected  with  the  F.  sursis,  a 
delay  or  respite,  being  derived  from  the 
Latin  supersedere.  Several  of  our  authors 
have  been  caught  in  this  pitfall. 

Walter  W.  Skeat. 

The  Best  Book  of  the  Nineteenth  Cen- 
tury.— This  is  an  invidious  topic,  but  Sir  W. 
Besant  has  faced  it  in  Hamuwortks  Magazine, 
and  others  may  scent  quarry  as  well  as  he. 
The  good  knight  awards  the  palm  to  Carlyle's 
*Past  and  Present,'  but  in  so  doing  tilts 
against  a  windmill.  The  sup)eriority  of  a 
book  (as  of  all  things^  must  be  relative,  and 
therefore  restricted.  Influence  is  Sir  Walter's 
scale,  but  this,  too,  is  of  necessity  limited.    By 

•  Copies  of  which  are  in  the  British  Museum, 
BodleiaD,  and  Queen's  Coll.  collections  of  proclama- 
tions. 


26 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     19*  s.  vil  Jan.  12. 1901. 


vrote  of  *Liicrec6'  as  ***Te«lved  to  live 
&D other  age"  in  Shakespeare's  work  (see 
Sidney  Lee*!*  *  Life  of  William  Shakespeare/ 
p.  78);  and  Shakf^Mpeare  wa.^  euloiri^ed  by 
name  as  the  author  of  *LucrecG^  in  gome 
venjej*  prefixed  to  *  Willobie  hi^  A  visa,'  which^ 
according?  to  Mr,  Lee  {'Life/  p,  155),  "  waw 
Hcen^d  for  publication  on  Sep.  3,  1594,  and 
wa§  pubLinbed  inimefliately,"  See  aha  Mr. 
Thompson  Cooper's  life  of  Clarke  in  the 
*I>.N.B/  Alex  Leefeil 

Trinity  College,  Uaiversily  ot  Melbourno. 

1796.— Turning  over  some  family  paperHj  I 
came  acrosa  an  old  pocket-book  which  had 
belonged  to  my  grandfather.  It  is '  Kearsley's 
Gentleman  and  Tradesman's*  Pocket  Lc^lger, 
for  the  Year  1706/  published  by  G.  Kearaley, 
46,  Fleet  Street,  "price  U.  M.,  bound  in  red 
leather  with  pockeUi  for  notes."  As  it  repre- 
sents in  many  wayst  an  obsolete  state  of  things, 
a  few  notes  may  be  interesting. 

The  Law  Terms  and  Essoign  Days  are  set 
out  in  the  ancient  form,  acconJing  to  octaves, 
fifteen -days,  and  morrow  a ;  there  were  no 
flittin^s  in  Westminster  Hall  on  2  February 
(Purification  of  St.  Mary  the  VirginX  Ascen- 
sion Day,  and  Midsunaraer  Day.  "Marriages 
are  forbidden  from  the  first  Kunday  in  Advent 
till  after  Twelfth  Day,  and  from  the  beginning 
of  Lent  to  Low  Sunday," 

Dates  are  gi^^en  of  the  dividend  days  at  the 
South  Sea  House  in  Thread  needle  Street, 
where,  however,  no  business  was  done  on 
Saturday  after  on©  of  the  clock.  Hackney 
coach -hordes  w^ere  not  to  be  leas  than  14 
hands  high ;  drivers  were  fined  if  they  had 
no  check -Htring»  and  the  licensed  number 
was  to  be  fixe<l  on  the  fore-tjtandard  of  a 
mourning- coach.  "Hackney  Coach  fares  from 
different  parts  of  the  town  to  various  places 
of  plea**urtj";  the.se  places  are  Drury  Lane, 
Covent  Garden,  ami  Haymarket  Tlieatres,  the 
Opera  House,  Ranelagh,  Vauxhall,  Sadler's 
Wells,  AstleyX  and  the  Circus.  One  point 
of  departure  is  the  Obelisk  in  Fleet  Sti'eet. 
Bates  of  watermen  plying  upon  the  river 
Thames  :  the  following  occur  in  the  list  of 
places : — 

To  Limehouao,  New  Crane,  Shad  well  and  Ratoliffe 

crow. 
To  the  Hermitage  and  Rotherhithe. 
To  Twickenhftm  and  Ttde-*?nd  t^wn. 
Frotn  BillingB^'ate  to  8t.  Havkiur'a  Mill. 
'J^ii  Ljimbeth,  Vftuxhal!,  or  Marble  Hall.* 

England  container!  8  million  inhabitants 
and  39  million  acres ;  land  in  tiOage  was 
only  about  10 J  million  acres ;  corn  grown  in 

*  There  wkh  vk  Marble  Hill  at  Twiekenham ;  see 
*N.  tQ./2*'SpV.  370. 


our  own  country  was  estimated  to  produce 
2,000  million  pounds  of  bread  ;  many  other 
details  are  given. 

Certificates  for  hair  powder  were  1/.  l^g,  each. 
Members  of  the  royal  family  and  their  im* 
mediate  servants  were  exempted ;  so  also 
were  ]>ersonH  in  the  army»  navy,  and  volun* 
teers ;  also  clergy  whose  annual  income  was 
less  than  100/.  on  an  a^'eraj^e  of  seven  years* 
The  same  exemption  applied  to  preachers  of 
Dmentingctmgregations,  to  Dissenters  in  pre- 
tended holy  orders^  and  to  those  of  the  Popiah 
religion.  If  a  man  had  more  than  two  un- 
married daughters,  he  was  to  pay  for  no  more 
than  two.  Lists  of  those  who  took  out  certi- 
ficates were  to  be  fixed  on  the  market  crosHf 
and  on  the  church  or  chapel ;  if  there  were 
no  church  or  chapel  in  the  place,  then  on  the 
next  church  or  chapel.  Penalty  for  UHing 
hair  powfier  without  certificate,  20/.  Makers 
and  retailers  of  "sweets,"  made- wines,  me- 
theglin  or  mead,  had  to  take  out  an  excise 
licence.  Customs  and  excise  duty  had  to  be 
paid  on  cocoa-nuts. 

No  letter  could  be  franked  by  a  member  of 
Parliament  if  it  weighed  more  than  1  oz., 
and  he  had  to  be  in  the  post  town  at  the  time 
the  letter  was  posted  ;  he  could  only  send  ten, 
and  receive  fifteen,  free  letters  in  a  day.  No 
letter  sent  to  or  from  persona  in  the  army 
and  navy  was  to  be  charged  more  than  Id. 

Innkeepers  or  others  on  whom  soldiers  were 
billeted  were  to  receive  lOd.  a  day  for  each  ;  a 
soldier  could  be  supplied  with  live  pints  of 
beer  or  cider  in  a  day. 

Instructions  for  the  management  of  sheep 
and  swine  contain  some  dialect  words. 

The  Kings  of  Franceend  with  "Lewis  XVL, 
beheaded  January  21,  1793,'^  and  no  notice  is 
taken  of  a  ny  au  bseq  uen  t  go  vcr  n  me  n  t.  Austrian 
rulers  appear  as  "  Emperors  of  Germany." 

A  bishop  on  translation  pays  no  fees  to  the 
House  of  Lords  unless  ha  be  translated  to 
Canterbury,  Y'ork,  London,  Durham,  or  Win- 
chester, 

The  House  of  Commons  numbered  558. 
George  Hose  was  Clerk  of  the  House  of 
Lords,  and  Henry  Oowper,  a^istant.  John 
Nichols  was  printer  of  the  votes  of  the  House 
of  Commons,  and  John  Bellamy  was  the 
housekeeper. 

There  i^  scope  for  much  annotation,  which 
I  leave  to  others.  W,  C.  R 

I^rDKXEs  TO  *  K,  ^  Q.'— For  a  dozen  yearia  I 
have  regartled  with  sorrow  on  my  shelves  a 
set  of  N.  tfc  Q.'  complete  all  bat  the  Inde^ 
to  the  Third  Series,  For  tho  encouragement 
of  those  contributors  who  are  in  the  like  case, 
I  may  eay  that  the  deaideratum  hm  been 


9»  &  vn.  Jan.  12. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


27 


supplied  me  by  Mr.  Franci;?  Edwat^s,  of  High 
Street,  Mar>ietx)ne,  I  have  hml  to  pay  close 
on  nix  pounds,  surely  »  record  price.  I  un- 
derstuna  that  some  of  the  other  Indexes*  are 
scarcely  leas  rare.  The  moral  to  he  dedu<^ed 
i%  Keep  your  General  Indexes  of  'N.  lic  Q/ 

H.  T, 

[The  fint  fir©  Indexes  are  all  excewtvely  rar^i 
*nd  the  Fifth  is  now-  as  rare  aa  the  Third,  A  few 
c«)|»ie9  of  the  Fourth  may  be  hvtd.  pric«  three 
nuneaa.  The  others  caa  oaly  be  obtained  by  a 
oai^y  cbaDoe.] 

VOLUMTABY  MUTILATIOKS  IN  FRANCE.—The 

mogjstratea  of  Moisaac  are  engaged  in  in- 
veitigfttitig  cases  of  voluntary  mutilation 
prmctised  by  a  band  of  quacks  and  sharpers 
111  tlie  distnctof  Quarcy  on  young  conscripts. 
By  meAns  of  a  bandage  these  quacks  produced 
aochyloeii.s  of  the  toes,  causing  iniir  mi  ties  that 
oece^itated  the  discharf^e  of  the  young  men, 
or  at  any  rat©  their  transfer  to  the  auxiliary 
serri^ea.  Each  of  these  operations  brought 
the  operator  a  fee  of  from  1.000  to  1,500  francs. 

J.  L.  H, 

McM>ir  Lore.— The  following  was  mentioncrl 
to  me  lAtel^  as  an  aid  in  recognizing  whether 
the  moon  is  on  the  *'wax*'or  the  "  wane," 
It  may  be  Dew  to  some  of  your  readers. 
When  the  creacent  appears  placed  as  a  C,  it  is 
creteem^^  on  the  increase.  When  turned  the 
opposite  way,  so  as  to  form  the  loop  of  the  D, 
it  la  on  the  atfcrease* 

J,  H.  Ri\^ett-Cakwac, 


Wi  loutft  request  cQrreapondeiit«  detiring  infer- 
iiiatfOD  oti  famuy  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  namea  and  addreaee*  to  their  queriesi 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addre«aed  to  them 
directs 

Ki2fc'9  Preacher  appointed  by  Edward 
VL^^ — Is  there  any  account  of  the  k infers 
preachers  appointed  by  Edward  V^I.  1  Is 
there  a  monograph  on  the  subject  t 

A,  W,  Oxford. 

2U0TATI0K.  —  Wanted    reference    to    the 
»wing  lines,  said  to  be  by»lioch ester  :^ 
I  bate  all  kings  and  the  throne*  they  «it  on. 
From  the  King  of  France  to  the  Cafiph  of  Britain. 

W,  Crook  E. 
I^offton  House,  Charlton  Kingt. 

Sir  Wiluam   F.   Carroll.— This  dintin- 

Sutshed  sailor  (1764-1882)  rose  to  be  a  Bear- 
dmiral,  K.C.B ,  and  Lieutenant-Governor 
of  Greenwich  Hospital.  Whom  did  he 
marry  I    I  should  be  much  obliged  to  any 


correspondent  who  would  tell  me  her  name, 
and  anything  more  about  her  family  that 
may  be  known.  Juliak  Maihshalu 

Lines  on  the  Skin.  — Will  any  rcarler 
kindly  tell  me  where  a  copy  of  the  lines  upon 
*  The  Skin '  may  be  found  1  They  begin,  if  I 
recollect  rightly, 

There  *n  a  akin  wHthin  and  a  skin  without, 
The  skitL  within  is  the  akin  without, 

N.  K,  K 

Date  Wanted.— Kindly  inform  me  what 
day  in  the  present  stylti  of  i-eckoning  is  the 
equivalent  of  "the  morrow  after  Corpus 
Chriati  day  "  in  the  year  1543, 

Thomas  Soothwell. 

Narwicb, 

Genealogical  Trees.— Where  can  I  see 
some  good  examples  of  genealogicis  of  say 
eighteen  to  twenty  generations  arrange*!  as 
trees  with  branches  and  leaves  I 

Chevron. 

GRiFFrrH  Williams,  Colonel  Commandant 
at  VVoalwich,  who  died  17 BO,  married  Anne 
Sherlock.  Who  was  she,  and  where  was  she 
married  ?  H.  M.  Batson. 

Hoe  Benham^  Newbury, 

BouLPER  Stones.— About  two  mites  south 
of  High  Bentham^  Yorkshire,  on  Burn  Moor, 
are  some  boulder  stones.  The  largest  is 
locally  known  as  the  "Great  Stone  of  the  Four- 
etones,"  The  six-inch  Ord  nancy  Survey  map 
shows  near  by  some  others  called  Fours  tones 
and  a  *'  Clap  Stone,"  Half  a  mile  east  of  the 
GreAt  St^jne  is  one  called  ** Queen  of  the  Fairies 
Chair.'*  At  t fie  summit  of  the  pans  leading  to 
Slaidbum  is  another  stone  called  the  "Stone 
of  Greet." 

Can  you  give  any  informatioti  as  to  the 
history  of  these  stones  I  Most  of  tliem  are 
p robably  of  k  1  acio^l  b i r t h  a o d  d eposi t,  S m i t h 's 
Old  Yorksliiro'  gives  some  historical  notes 
of  other  stones  in  Yorkshire,  and  promises 
more  in  succeeding  volumes,  but  there  is 
nothing  about  these.  I  should  be  glad  of  any 
information  or  reference  to  works  in  which 
they  arc  described,  J.  R, 

Orierson  of  DuBLm.— Can  any  reader 
l^ive  a  reference  to  a  pedigree  of  the 
Griersnns  of  Dublin  ?  The  patent  of  king's 
printer  in  Ireland  was  held  by  members  of 
this  family  for  many  yeai^.  Possibly  a  list 
of  the  king's  printers  is  available  for  refer- 
ence, and  tills  would  give  the  successive 
GrierHi>ns  who  held  the  patent.  The  Orier- 
sans  were  connected  with  the  D'Arcys  of 
Hyde  Park,  co.  Westmeath,  who^e  arms  are 
quartered  ^^  ith  tho^se  of  Griersonj  which  aro 


28 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9«»8.vii.  Jan.  12.1901 


Scotch,  aa  the  name  would  imply,  William 
Grierson,  of  Dean  stow  n,  co.  Dublin,  is  named 
in  the  D'Aj'cy  pedigree.  Certain  particulars 
which  help  ai-e  to  Be  found  in  the  article  in 
the  *  D.N.B/  on  Constant ia  Grierson.  Wil- 
liam GrierROn,  of  Deanstown  (above  referred 
toX  had  three  daughters.  The  eldest,  Martha 
^  James  D^Arcy,  of  Hyde  Park ;  another, 
Dorothea  =  William  ifoore,  Esq.  (marriage 
licence,  1768,  *  Dublin  Grants  Index'):  and  the 
other  (name  not  a3oertaiDed)=a  Grierson. 
It  is  believed  that  the  Grieraons  went  from 
England  to  Ireland  first  as  kin^s  printers. 
There  are  many  Griersone  mentioned  in 
'Dublin  Diocesan  Wills/  in  Yicars'a  *Iiiah 
Marriages/ and  in  the  '  Dublin  Grants  Index.' 
One  or  two  entries  are  also  to  be  found  in 
the  selections  from  the  registers  giveo  in 
Hughes's  'Church  of  8t  Werburgh,  Dublin/ 
and  the  *  Church  of  St.  John  the  Evangelist^ 
Dublin/  SiGNU. 

**  RoKER."— At  a  manicnrist'a  in  Bond  Street 
I  hear  the  word  *'  roker  "  used  for  a  cherry- 
wood  stick  employed  in  cleaning  the  nail.  I 
have  looked  in  the  *  Century  Dictionary/  and 
can  find  no  trace  of  any  "rok"  root  with 
any  Ssuch  meaning.  The  manicurists  tell  me 
tlmt  the  word  is  always  cserl  in  their  tmde^ 
and  is  "roker"  and  not  '* raker."  Can  any 
of  your  readers  lielp  me  ?  C.  Rossell. 

[Rok€=rak6  in  a  not  very  oteanly  ften^  was  occa- 
sionally ueed  atty  yeara  ago  m  tho  West  Biding,  j 

Teddye  Family.— Roger  Glanville,  buried 
at  Ash  burton  in  1800.  married  at  Ash  burton, 

12  Aprih  1765,  Mary,  daughter  of Teddye. 

Is  anything  known  of  her  family  1 

a  L.  G. 

Floooing  at  the  Caet  Tail.— I  remem- 
ber my  father,  when  I  was  a  boy,  seventy 
Years  ago,  pointing  out  a  man  to  me  whom 
he  had  seen  flogged  at  the  cart  tail  up  the 
principal  street  ot  this  town.  I  presume  this 
would  be  done  by  order  of  the  nrngistrate^s,  as 
a  punishment  for  some  offence.  Can  any 
reader  say  for  what  ofiencea  this  punishment 
was  applied,  and  when  it  became  obsolete  ? 

J.  W.  W. 

Halifax. 

[S«e  G*"*  S.  vi.,  vii.,  viii,  poft^im ;  l"^  K  v.  7,  205, 
445.J 

TnoMAS  Scott.— Can  any  reader  tell  me 
the  names  of  the  descendants  of  Thomas 
Scott,  the  hvmn- writer  and  Unitarian  minister 
of  Ipswich?    Died  1775.  H,  W, 

NiCH0Ls03€,  —  The  car^^r  of  Sir  Francis 
Nicholson  (Hj60-1728)  may  bo  traced  pretty 
well    through   his    public   life   in   America 


from  the  publications  of  the  N.  Y.,  Md.,  Va., 
S,C.,  and  Nova  Scotia  Historical  Societies 
and  State  documents.  Can  you  help  me  to 
materials  bearing  on  his  early  life  and  on  the 
closing  years,  1725-2B1 

U.  W.  SoaiMEKVILLE. 

"  CoDRiNGTOK."— Dr.  Guthrie  in  1844  wrote 
thus  to  his  wife :  "  Finding  that  I  would  be 
uncomfortably  confined,  I  took  up  my  posi- 
tion on  a  chair  in  fronts  having  my  hat  on 
my  head,  my  Cod  ring  ton  close  buttoned  up  to 
my  throat.  Was  a  Codrington  a  jacket  or 
coat  ?    What  is  the  word  derived  from  1 

M.A.OX0N. 

[An  origin  la  suggested  from  Admiral  Bir  Edward 
Codrington  or  his  aon  Admiral  Sir  Henry  John 
Codrington,  similar  to  that  of  Spencer.] 

"CimRMAC-DES."— What  is  the  meaning  of 
this  word  I  It  occurs  in  the  presentments  at 
the  Courts  Leet  of  Southampton.  *' Three 
ekmmagdei  were  prejsented,  two  of  them 
because  they  had  no  present  employment ; 
both  were  required  to  put  themselves  imme- 
diately to  service,  or  to  leave  the  town." 

Hellier  K.  H.  GossiLm. 

Benj^a  Hall,  Hertford. 

"  Peaky-blindeh.^'— Has  the  use  of  this 
word  in  the  Midlands  as  a  synonym  for 
Hooligan  been  recorded  in  '  N,  &  QJl 

B.  D.  MOBELBY, 

SuBSAMES.— Perhaps  you  or  some  of  your 
readers  can  inform  me  when  surnames  were 
first  introduced  into  England — I  mean,  when 
say  Peter  de  Courtenay  may  have  dropperl  the 
de.  I  imagine  it  was  between  the  middle  of 
the  thirt4^nth  and  the  middle  of  the  four- 
teenth centuria'i.    Geobge  H.  Courtenay. 

Sir  Jameb  Douglas.— Can  any  reader  of 
*  N,  St  Q.'  inform  me  if  the  good  Sir  James 
Douglas,  the  friend  of  King  Kobert  Bruce, 
was  a  natural  son  7  Touraine. 

Arundel  :  Walden.— Was  the  name  of  the 

town  of  Arundel  in  Sussex  derived  from 
Arendal  in  Scandinavia?  Also  the  name  of 
Walden  in  Essex  from  Valdai  en  in  Norway, 
from  which  p]ace  St.  Olaf  is  Eiaid  to  have 
fiwl  ?  T.  W.  C. 

Scottish  Namis  m  Feoissart.— Has  any 
serious  attempt  ever  been  made  to  identify  the 
mis  rendered  Scottish  names  which  appear  in 
Lord  Bcrners's  version  of  Froissart  ?  In  the 
account  uf  the  battle  of  Gtterhum  alone  there 
are  at  lejuit  a  dozen  which  might  be  variously 
interpreted.  At  the  British  Museum  are  two 
copies  of  Froissart  in  manuscript,  difi^ering 
considerably  both  from  each  other  and  from 


9i^  s.  va  JA.V.  12. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


29 


Lord  Bamem.  Can  anybody  tell  me  where 
there  are  other  good  and  early  raftnufjcripta 
which  could  be  consulted  1  Johneii  mentinns 
aD  unmutilated  c*>py  at  Bre^ktL  but  there 
must  bo  many.  If  it  has  not  already  been 
done,  it  might  be  interesting  to  collect  for 
comparisoii  the  various  readings. 

G.  s.  a  s. 

XoBMAN  AE€HrrEcrr0RE.— What  is  the  most 
exhauitive,  up-to-date  book  upon  Norman 
architecture,  and  by  whom  pubHshedt 

SainthiUi  oe  St,  Hill  Family,  —  Can 
your  readers  give  me  information  relative 
to  any  Sainthillji  or  St  Hills  living  at  the 
present  time,  or  any  details  of  memberi^  of 
auch  family  living  in  the  eighteenth  century  1 
They  were  originaliy  a  Devon  shire  family,  but 
a  branch  settled  in  Middlesex  and  another 
branch  in  the  Barbadoea*  I  shall  be  very 
glad  of  any  information  that  ia  sent  direct  to 
lo©,  C.  Saiktbill, 

m,  Beaufort  Gardetu,  BM. 

'*pETKEjya"— la  not  this  a  new  word? 
What  are  the  derivation  and  meaning  of  it? 
It  occurs  in  the  Amdmiy  of  22  Dec,  1900  : 
'*  A  sen^e  of  the  petering  out  of  the  autumn 
season,  the  year,  the  century,  sits  heavily  on 
literary  chroniclers."  W.  B. 

|To  run  short  or  give  out  like  an  exhausted  fuae, 
originally,  perhaps,  American  mining  slauff,  which 
Mark  Twwn  and  other  writera  have  made  familjar, 
Uied  in  Stevenson,  *  VaihniB  Letten)/  pp.  171^  348, 
**  Ftet«r  "  looks  like  the  aacnei  word  us  '*  petaird/^ 

Memoibs  of  Eablt  METHODrsT  Preach  EBB, 
— I  have  several  named  portraits  of  Wesley  an 
Methodist  preachers  removetl  from  the  con- 
nexional  magazine.  Can  some  reader  refer 
me  to  any  list  or  book  which  will  inform  me 
aa  to  the  dates  and  places  of  their  births  aod 
deatha  I  C.  Kikq. 

Union  Street,  Torquay, 

[The  Wesleyan  Methodist  Book -room,  2j  Gmatle 
Street,  City  Road,  E*C*,  seems  the  likelioat  place 
to  apply  for  information.  Ther«  is  a  oonnexional 
edit'orj 

Flower  Divination,— Id  '  N,  ife  Q.,'  6^^*  S. 
viit>  liM,  Mi^  Busk  say  a  that  in  Spain  the 
daisy  is  called  by  the  people  *^  Bemmequer, 
malmequer"  (he  or  she  loves  me,  loveii  me 
noi),  because  of  the  augury  of  its  petals.  Is 
thiji  phrase  actually  ui^ed  a^  a  daisy -name,  or 
H  it  merely  used  by  Spanish  children  when 
pulling  off  the  petals  to  read  their  augury  1 
The  above  custom  is  a  very  old  unei  und  is 
prevaleat  in  many  countriea  with  varying 
formula :  in  England,  '"  He  lovea  me,  he 
lorw  me  Dof;  in  Germany^ ''  Er  liebt  mioh, 


er  Hebt  mich  nicht "  ;  in  Spain  OX  ^^  above  ; 
in  France,  "II  m'aime  un  pen,  beaucuup, 
passion  nemen  t,  pas  du  tou t. "  Can  any  reader 
give  rae  similar  formulm  used  in  any  other 
countries  by  children  when  plucking  off  daisy 
petals  %—t.g,,  the  custom  is  still  alive  m  Italy 
and  Wales,  but  I  am  ignorant  of  the  form  of 
words  used.  Megan. 

Messitee,  a  SuenamEp— Whence  derived ! 

C.  C.  B. 

"  Twopenny  Tube."— When  and  whem  was 
this  now  familiar  nickname  for  the  Central 
London  Railway  first  used  1  A,  F,  R. 

[We  fiincy  that  it  was  first  printed  by  C  I*  O.  in 
a  journal  caUed  the  LondonerJl 

"Thackeray's  bed  books.*'— I  shall  be  glad 
to  know  what  these  are,  and  why  they  are 
so  called.  F.  M,  T, 

Hawkins  Fa  MiLY.—JamesFynraore,  writing 

to  his  brother  William,  a  solicitor  in  Jamaica, 
under  date  1765,  speaks  of  '*my  sister  Haw- 
kins living  at  Kensinpttm."  As  he  writes 
"  my  "  instead  of  *'our,'*  she  may  have  been  a 
sister-indaw,    I  should  like  Uj  identify  her, 

R,  J.  Fynmore* 
SandgatOi  Kent, 

ETYMOLor,Y."Is  there  in  any  Celtic  lan- 
guage a  word  which  would  serve  as  the  root  of 
the  following  name^  of  rivers  and  burns  1^ 
Nethy.  Nethan,  Nith,  Nid  or  Nidd,  Nittane- 
head,  Nochty  in  Glennochty,  Invernoth  or 
Invernorth  (meaning  a  fortJ),  Inverythan» 
Fowneid  (/w?p  itself  means  a  burn).  Nether- 
dale,  where  nethtr  do(*s  not  mean  lower.  If 
the  n  reprR&ent  the  Gaelic  article,  the  same 
root  would  servo  for  Ythan,  and  perhaps  for 
Bithnie  and  Balbithnie.  John  Milne, 

Poem  by  the  late  Dr.  E.  Hatce,— Wanted 
the  whereabouts  of  a  poem  by  Dr,  Hatch 
containing  the  lines 

8aiuti^  of  the  marts  and  busy  streets, 
tiaiots  of  the  »quaUd  Iftnes, 

They  appeared  poHthumouslv,  but  are  not 
given  in  the  *  Remains '  edited  hy  his  son, 

J.  A.  Ollis. 

"  In  the  fiswiM." — Can  you  or  any  of  your 
contributors  tell  me  the  origin  of  the  common 
Euglisii  phraso  "In  the  swim"?    Is  it  j^iood 
English^  or  is  it  slang  %    What  is  its  origin  ] 
Edward  Wakkkield. 

Geojicie  Alhopp  w^fts  admitted  to  West- 
minster School  on  S.'V  February,  1782.  ^  I 
abould  be  plad  to  obtain  any  infrjrmaHon 
concerning  nim,  G,  F*  R,  B. 


30 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     p*s.vil  Jan.  12.1901. 


NOTE  ON  A  PASSAGE  IN  CHAUCER'S 

•  PROLOGUE.' 

(9^»»  S.  vi.  365,  434,  463.) 

The  proposed  reading  hrcegelees  (gown- 
lesti)  has  been  declared  out  of  the  Question, 
but  not  on  reasonable  grounds.  With  re- 
gard to  the  sound  of  the  g  in  hroegel^ 
Vernon,  in  his  *  An^lo-Saxon  Guide,'  gives  the 
following  rule :  "(?  is  never  soft ;  when  placed, 
however,  between  two  of  the  vowels  cp,  «,  t,  or 
J/,  or  at  the  beginning  of  a  sj'Uable,  &c.,  it  has 
the  sound  of  y.  But  ne  adds  in  a  note :  "  It  is 
likely  that  n  before  e  or  t,  and  (like  h)  at  the 
end  of  a  syllable,  was  guttural,  as  it  often  is 
in  German  and  always  in  Dutch."  Murray 
(*Encyc.Brit.')8ays:  "TheOld  English {7 beside 
the  sound  in  *  go  *  had  a  guttural  sound,  as  in 
the  German  tag^  Irish  magh^  and  in  certain 
positions  a  palatalized  form  of  this  approach- 
ing Vi  as  in  *you '  if  pronounced  hj/ou  or  ghi/ou." 
And  again  :  '*  The  dialects  differed  in  phono- 
logy, the  Northern  retaining  the  guttural 
values  of  k^  g,  and  8c."  Ellis  states :  "  It  is 
possible  that  there  was  a  tendency  in  those 
times  [Anglo-Saxon]  to  pronounce  g  final  or 
medial  as  f/A,  just  as  the  Upper  Germans  now 
do,  and  the  Duteh  pronounce  their  g  in  all 
positions."  Sweet,  in  his  'Anglo -Saxon 
Header,'  gives  the  g  in  question  the  sound  of 
f/  as  in  "you,"  but  he  is  dealing  with  one 
dialect  only,  and  has  the  Qualification  that 
the  pronunciation  of  the  letters  has  been 
determined  with  "  considerable  certainty." 

According  te  Ellis,  "  in  the  thirteenth,  four- 
teenth, and  fifteenth  centuries  it  is  almost  a 
straining  of  the  meaning  of  words  te  talk  of 
a  general  English  pronunciation."  Different 
versions  of  words,  as  eyren  and  eggys,  lie  and 
Itgge^  gate  and  yate,  miich  and  mucheU  existed 
in  different  districts  at  one  period,  and 
still  exist,  except  the  first.  As  the  g  re- 
tained its  guttural  sounds  in  the  four- 
teenth century  (whatever  may  have  been 
the  Anglo-Saxon  original),  there  is  nothing 
more  likely  than  that  Chaucer,  reading 
hrcegel,  for  instance,  in  the  poem  *  Judith,' 
should  give  the  g  a  guttural  value,  which 
is  more  to  the  point  than  the  correct  pro- 
nunciation, even  if  it  could  be  ascertained 
beyond  doubt.  The  spelling  of  hrcegelees  is 
sufficiently  like  recckelees  to  make  tlie  one 
easily  mistaken  for  the  other,  either  with  or 
without  the  initial  A  in  the  former.  The 
form  rail  occuriing  in  the  twelfth  century 
(r(Pt/  also  occurs  as  roeilhus  in  Wrights 
'Vocabulary,'  No.  13)  does  not  prove  the 
other  form  obsolete,  as  it  is  well  known  that 


words  persist  a  long  time  in  poetry  and 
speech  after  they  have  disappeared  from  prose 
writing.  Gate  and  yate  show  the  persistence 
of  two  forms  of  a  word,  the  one  in  writing,  the 
other  in  local  speech.  Yate  is  not  in  the  list 
of  words  in  Jonnson's  '  Dictionary,'  yet  it  is 
still  used  in  Lancashire  and  in  Scotland.  It 
was  also  known  to  Johnson  as  used  in  the 
language  of  rustics,  as  he  mentions  when 
treating  of  the  letter  g. 

As  to  the  contention  that  an  emendation 
is  not  required,  if  any  one,  not  in  the  position 
of  Dr.  Sangrado,  will  read  the  lines  con- 
cerned and  think  for  himself,  he  will  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  recckelees  is  not  an  ap- 
propriate word,  as  did  Ten  Brink,  Skeat  (1889), 
and  Ellis ;  and  lie  will  further  agree  with  the 
last  named  that  "  cloysterlees  was  only  a  gloss 
which  crept  into  the  text  from  y.  181  and 
renders  that  line  a  useless  repetition,"  and 
is  therefore  not  Chaucer's  doing. 

Chaucer  relates  that  the  monk  held  two 
**  texts"  directed  against  monks  to  be  ground- 
less. He  acknowledges  that  both  apply  to 
himself:  the  first  from  his  being  a  hunter, 
the  second  from  his  being  recckelees;  but  he 
holds  that  the  conclusion  in  each  case  does  not 
follow.  That  is  to  say  :  though  a  hunter,  the 
conclusion  that  he  is  not  a  holy  man  is  false ; 
though  recckelees,  the  conclusion  that  he  is  like 
a  fish  out  of  water,  and  therefore  doomed  to 
destruction,  is  inaccurate.  His  opinion  of  the 
two  sayings  is  endorsed  by  Chaucer  in  1.  183. 
Now,  it  is  surely  a  hopeless  case  for  a  monk 
or  any  man  to  acknowledge  himself  to  bo 
reckless,  and  then  deny  that  he  does  wrong. 
It  is  necessary  that  the  word  recckelees  should 
have  such  a  meaning  that  the  monk  could 
acknowledge  it  was  applicable  to  him,  and 
yet  leave  him  a  character  to  defend  ;  that  is, 
it  could  not  be  reckless.  The  word  is  used  in 
a  saying  evidently  different  from  that  con- 
cerning hunting,  whereas  "reckless"  would 
apply  as  well  to  a  hunting  monk  as  to  a 
cloisterlees  one,  or  better.  If  '*  reckless  "  were 
ever  the  word,  the  separate  consideration  of 
hunting  is  manifestly  unnecessary.  In  the 
description  of  the  monk  prominence  is  given 
to  two  features— namelj'',  his  love  of  hunting 
and  his  love  of  fine  dress  ;  so  that  it  is  appro- 
priate, or  rather  necessary,  for  him  to  hold 
that  hunting,  fine  dress,  and  being  out  of  a 
cloister  were  cither  not  faults  in  a  monk  or 
trifling  ones. 

"  Gownless  "  as  a  meaning  suits  the  passage 
well.  Like  '*  being  a  hunter,"  it  conveys  a 
reproach  to  a  monk,  not  to  other  men  ;  and  a 
monk  could  acknowledge  himself  to  be  gown- 
less  without  acknowledging  himself  to  be 
doomed  to  destruction. 


»»aviLjAK.i2.i«n.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


83 


Max  MiiLLER  and  Westminster  Abbey 
(9"»  S.  vi.  446,  495).— Perhaps,  as  a  P.S.  to 
what  has  appeared,  the  following,  from  Mrs. 
pliphant's  'Life  of  Piincipal  Tulloch,'  may 
be  of  interest  :— 

"  Dean  Stanley  had  made  the  canons  innovation 
of  establishing  a  kind  of  singular  lectureship  in  the 
nave  of  the  Abbey  of  Westminster,  at  which,  from 
time  to  time,  various  notable  persons,  not  eccle- 

nastics  of  the  Church  of  England,  had  apv>earod 

The  Principal  had  been  asked to  be  one  of  these 

lecturers,  but  he  had  disliked  the  idea  of  appearing 
under  xufTerance,  so  to  speak,  in  a  place  where  his 
orders  were  not  acknowledged,  or  his  position 
allowed,  solely  as  a  sort  olprot^gd  of  the  Dean.'* 


However,  Mrs.  Oliphant  adds,  the  Dean 
had  his  way,  and  Tulloch,  referring  to  his 
lecture,  wrote  to  his  wife  : — 

"  I  had  an  uncomfortable  feeling  not  only  as  to 
the  strangeness  of  holding  forth  m  Westminster 
Abbey,  but  as  to  my  being  an  unauthorized  person 
there." 

The  service  took  place  in  the  nave,  imme- 
diately after  the  three  o'clock  Evensong, 
which  had  been,  as  usual,  chanted  in  the 
choir,  and  lasted,  Tulloch  writes,  "with  the 
Dean's  short  prayer,  and  the  singing  of 
the  hymn,  just  an  hour  altogether." 

George  Angus. 
St  Andrews,  N.B. 

"Frail"  (9"»  S.  iv.  436,  507  ;  v.  51, 158  ;  vi. 
378).— In  the  victualling  ((/amisona)  of  the 
8hi|)^sent  into  Norway  for  the  Maid  (domicella) 
of  Scotland  in  1290,  payments  were  made 
{inter  'Uia)  :— 

"Pro  dimidio  quarterii  gruellae  avena},  iij^.  iuyl, 

Pro  XX  libris  j  quarterio  zingiberis,  xxij.'^.  xd, 

Et  pro  ij  fraellis  ncuum,  et  pro  ij  fraellis  racc- 

morum,*  xiiii/f.     Et  ij  libris  croci,  x/f.    Et  pro  uno 

gurdo   ginjgebrade,    ponderis    xxviijli..  xlij/* Et 

pro  xriij  clatibus  circa  biRqu3rt  in  navi.' — J.  Steven- 
son, •  Documents  illust.  Hist.  Scotl.'  (1870),  i.  140. 
See  also  pp.  188,  188. 

The  prices  and  wages  noted  in  both  the  docu- 
ments referred  to  are  of  great  interest.  What 
was  the  gt-uella  avena  f  Some  of  it  was  used 
by  the  envoys,  "  et  residuum  dederunt  mari- 
narii  pro  Doo,t  quia  corruptum."  The  items 
as  to  "gingerbread  "and  biscuit  may  bo  worth 
noting  by  possessors  of  the  *  H.E.D.* 

An  earlier  instance  occurs  in  the  Patent 
Rolls,  1  Henry  III.  (Twenty-sixth  Deputy- 
Keeper's  Rep.,  67).  On  12  December,  1216, 
Ereminus  Bekin  received  a  safe -conduct, 
•*  ad  yeniendum  in  Angliam  cum  uno  frahello 
wcidi^  et  quod  indo  auferat  mercandisas  ad 
valentiam  prsedicti  frahelli."  Q.  V. 

•  So  printed,  for  rticenorum,  raisins, 
t  What  18  the  exact  meaning  of  this  odd  ex- 
preniioii? 


"Blackstrap":  Origin  of  the  Word(9"» 
S.  vi.  505). — See  blacksti-ap  and  blackwine,  s.v, 
*  Black'  in  the  *KD.D.,^and  the  quotations 
therewith,  one  of  which  explains  that  black- 
wine  or  blaakwuifn  was  port.  Sherry  was 
white  wine.  The  word  blackstrap  has  not 
been  confined  to  port  alone,  and  the  meaning 
of  the  second  syllable  has  yet  to  be  declared. 
Arthur  Mayall. 

When  "  the  *  N.E.D.'  did  not  arme  to  the 
rescue"  with  this  word,  R.  B.  should,  like 
Mohammed  under  similar  circumstances,  have 
gone  to  the  dictionary.  He  would  there(p.  890, 
col.  3)  have  found  black  strap  explained,  with 
four  quotations  ranging  from  1785  to  1842. 
In  three  of  these  the  name  is  written  as  two 
words,  the  form  adopted  in  the  dictionary, 
where  the  phrase  is  treated  in  a  group  or 
"  specialized  combinations,"  with  black  cattle, 
black  coaly  Black  Country ^  black  sugar^  Black 
Watchy  and  the  like.  M. 

The  Title  of  Esquire  (9«>  S.  vi.  387,  452, 
470).— I  do  not  propose  to  intervene  with 
regard  to  this  delicate  question,  but  I  think 
Mr.  a.  C.  Fox-Davies  is  led  into  error  with 
regard  to  surnames  by  what  is  nevertheless 
a  laudable  enthusiasm. 

English  surnames  were  originally  assumed 
by  individuals  or  conferred  oy  custom,  and 
they  have  never  been  fixed  by  law  or  regis- 
tered by  a  competent  authority— there  being, 
in  fact,  no  such  authority.  Down  to  quite 
recent  times  persons  have  spelt  their  names 
according  to  their  own  sweet  wills,  and  at 
the  present  day  illiterate  persons  may  be 
met  with  who  spell  their  names  diflferently 
on  different  occasions.  The  fact  seems  to 
be  that  any  person  may  call  himself  by  any  • 
surname  he  chooses  without  a  breach  of 
law,  but  that  no  one  who  has  known  an 
individual  by  one  name  is.  under  any  obliga- 
tion to  adnress  him  by  another,  unless 
directed  so  t^  do  (in  effect)  by  royal  letters 
patent. 

I  do  not  desire  to  commend  the  practice 
of  altering  or  adding  to  patronymics,  but  at 
the  same  time  the  tact  should  not  be  lost 
sight  of  that  there  is  absolutely  no  legal 
obligation  in  the  matter,  and  that  in  recent 
years  no  disability  of  any  kind  has  attached 
to  a  person  bearing  what  may  be  loosely 
de8cril)ed  as  a  "false"  name,  though  false  it 
strictly  is  not  if  it  has  l>een  permanently 
adopted.  James  Dallas. 

Is  the  word  "Esquire"  a  real  title,  seeing 
that  we  use  it  only  as  a  suffix,  like  "D.L."  or 
"J.P."?  These  initials  are  expressive  of 
quality  or  rank ;  thus  ^*  Yeoman  "  is  not  a 


34 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*  s.  vii.  jak.  12. 1901. 


title,  nor  even  is  "  Gentleman  "  a  title.  Dod 
the  infallible  ranks  "  Esquires  "  as  No.  136 
in  his  scale  of  precedence,  thus  :  **  Esquires 
by  office,  including  all  officers  of  the  naval 
or  military  forces,  who  are  styled  esquires  in 
their  commis.sions." 

It  is  understood  that  Her  Majesty  signs 
the  first  commission  so  granted,  and  it  con- 
stitutes an  official  distinction,  but  the  public 
are  content  to  class  officers  as  "  Gentlemen." 
The  Quoen  has  recently  created  Sir  J.  B. 
Paul  an  Esquire  by  appointment ;  but,  as 
his  knighthood  grants  an  exact  title,  it  has 
to  be  shown  that  the  **squireship"  constitutes 
an  elevation. 

Novels  of  the  last  century  describe  a 
"Squire  Jones,"  he  being  the  local  landowner. 
I  have  known  villagers  dub  such  gentry  as 
"Lords,"  it  being  the  survival  of  the  manorial 
lordship,  formerly  of  baronial  rank. 

Fitz-Glanvil. 

Yeomanry  Records  (9***  S.  vi.  269, 397 ;  vii. 
12).— I  have  compiled  a  MS.  list  of  regimental 
histories,  as  curiously  no  such  index  to  this 
kind  of  literature  exists.  In  it  I  find  *  Wor- 
cestershire Yeomanry  Cavalry,'  published 
1843,  and  *  Nottingham  Yeomanry.' 

(Mrs.)  J.  Hautenville  Cope. 

Sulhamstead,  Berkshire. 

The  Grave  of  George  Heriot  (9^*»  S.  vL 
170,  272,  373).— It  seems  unwise  to  take  the 
extract  from  the  Edirthurgh  Courant  too 
seriously.  Georee  Heriot  was,  of  course, 
buried  in  the  ola  church  ;  there  is  nothing 
definite  to  show  what  happeneiJ  to  his 
remains  in  1721  when  that  church  was  pulled 
down.  The  minutes  of  the  Board  of  Com- 
missioners for  building  the  present  church 
record  two  destinations  for  the  coffins  and 
bodies  which  wore  unearthed  in  the  process 
of  digging  the  new  foundations.  The  majority 
were  removed  to  vaults  prepared  for  them 
under  the  "  Tabernacle  "  until  the  new  vaults 
should  be  ready,  and  the  remainder  were 
interred  in  a  "  trench  between  the  old  wall 
on  the  north  side  of  the  churchyard  and  the 
new  foundations."  A  proposal  to  use  the 
"new  churchyard  "  (that  in  which  the  work- 
house was  subsequently  erected)  was  rejected 
by  the  Commissioners.  It  seems  unlikely, 
therefore,  that  Heriot's  coffin  can  have  been 
there;  and  it  is  worth  noticing  that  the 
extract  quoted  does  not  sav  that  the  coffin 
had  been  discovered.  I  fancy  the  writer 
simply  assumed  that  it  was  in  the  graveyard 
which  had  been  in  use  since  1608.  The  fact 
that  nothing  more  seems  to  have  been 
heard  of  the  matter  points  to  the  same 
conclusion.    It  is  most  regrettable  that  the 


lists  (made  in  1721)  of  all  the  coffins  which 
were  moved  have  not  survived. 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  state  that  there 
were  probably  three  persons  bearing  the 
name  "George  Heriot  living  in  this  parish 
of  St.  Martin's  at  the  same  time:  first,  he 
whose  grave  is  in  question  ;  second,  one  who 
was  married  to  a  certain  Frances  Jelon  in 
1612/13  (she  appears  as  a  widow  in  1624); 
third,  a  George  Heriot^  Esq.,  whose  wife 
Alice  was  buried  in  the  church  in  September, 
1621.  It  would  be  interesting  to  know 
whether  there  was  any  connexion  between 
these  three  gentlemen,  but  in  the  face  of 
those  forty  children  of  one  father  this  seems 
a  vain  hope.  J.  V.  Kitto. 

St.  Martin's  Vicarage,  Charing  Cross,  W.C. 

Sir  Robert  Moray  (9"»  S.  vi.  507).— There 
is  no  known  engraved  portrait  of  this  worthy, 
I  think  I  may  safely  say.  There  may,  of 
course,  be  a  painted  likeness  of  him  some- 
where, which  has  never  been  engraved,  though 
it  is  not  very  probable. 

Julian  Marshaxl. 

Rev.  Thomas  Campbell,  LL.D.  (9**»  S.  vi. 
507).— The  portrait  of  this  divine  mentioned 
by  Mr.  Ernest  Radford  is  jinknown  to 
Bromley  and  to  Evans.  I  do  not  know  it, 
and  I  should  think  it  must  be  the  likeness  of 
some  other  person.  I  can  find  no  record  of 
the  portrait  of  any  clergyman,  of  that  period, 
engraved  by  James  Parker. 

Julian  Marshall. 

"John  Company"  (8^»»  S.  i.  475  ;  ii.  37, 116). 
—In  Andreas  Spurrraann*s  *  Travels  to  the 
Cape  of  Good  Hope,  the  South-Polar  Lands, 
and  round  the  World,'  translated  freely  from 
the  Swedish  (Berlin,  1784),  at  p.  347,  the 
following  passage  occurs  : — 

"Further,  I  know  that,  as  airaple  Hottentots  and 
Indians  could  form  no  idea  of  the  Dutch  Coiniwiny 
and  its  government  and  constitution,  the  Dutch  in 
India  had  given  out  that  this  was  one  mighty  ruling 
prince  who  was  called  Jan,  or  John,  witn  the  sur- 
name Company,  which  also  procured  for  them  more 
reverence  than  if  they  could  have  actually  made 
the  i)eople  understand  that  they  were,  in  fact,  ruled 
by  a  company  of  merchants." 

J.  F.  R-N. 

Easter  Magiant  (9"*  S.  vi.  508).— "  Easter 
giant,  Easter  ledges,  Easter  magiants,  or 
Easter  mangiants  =  /*oZy(7onwm  6M^o?^i"(see 
William  Miller,  'Dictionary  of  English  Names 
of  Plants,'  1894,  p.  40).  Polygonum  bistorta 
would  prove  a  very  nasty  ingredient  in  a 
pudding.  1  believe  that  the  word  "Easter- 
man  giant,"  Easter  mangeant,  applies  to  some 
aromatic  herb  allied  to  tansy  or  camomile. 
See  Britten  and   HoUand,   '^Dictionary  of 


»*  8.  vn.  Jan.  12. 1901]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


35 


Eoglish  Plant  Namej^/  18HCj,  p.  ]64»  and 
Gardm€r»'  Chrojtkk,  12  Sept»  1S74,  p.  344; 
IS  Sept,  1874,  p.  355  (special) ;  26  Sept.,  1874, 
p.  403  (also  apeeial). 

Maxwell  T.  Masters. 

I^  there  twssibly  some  asisaciation  either 
with  the  Eastern  Magi,  or  the  fact  that 
**  pnesentrng  e^gs  to  our  f rieods  at  Easter  is 
Majcian*'?  Vidk  'Dictionary  of  Phrase  and 
Fabler'  Authue  Mayall. 


AtJTBOR  AKD  Reference  for  Verses 
Wanted  (8***  a  vi.  469).  — The  querist  will 
find  the  wanted  line^*,  though  hardly  a^ 
gooted,  in  Thoiuas  Moore's  'A  Dream  of 
Hindositan*  (Locker- Lam pson*s  'Lyra  Ele- 
gantiarnm/  1891  edition,  p.  229),  The  squib 
does  not  appear  in  the  common  editions  of 
Moore,  J.  A*  OLLia. 

Watch-chain  Ornament  (9'^''  S.  vi.  409^ 
436X— Mk.  AsTLEY  will  find  a  full  account  of 
his  friend ^a  ornament,  a  common  cliarm 
against  the  evil  eye,  in  Mr.  Elworthy^s 
'  Evil  Eye,'  p.  255  tt  uqq.^  and  in  the  same 
writer*^  recently  iaaaed  book  'Horns  of 
Honour/  W,  Ceooke. 

A  hand  with  the  two  middle  fingers  flexed 
on  the  palm  in  a  very  common  ainubt  again f^t 
£ascination  and  other  perils.  It  ib  the  mano 
comuta,  or  horned  hand,  which  is  ho  often 
seen  in  the  flesh  in  Southern  Italy,  especially 
in  Naples.  Mr  A^tley  is  referred  to  chap,  vii, 
of  Elworthy's  *  The  Evil  Eye/ 

St.  S  wits  in, 
[Madj  replies  received.] 

Ballywhaine  (9^  a  vi,  209,  412).—!  do 
not  understand  the  application  of  ''  British  '^ 
to  a  word  but  the  nearest  English  equivalent 
of  f^din  should  be  w&ng,  otherwise  in{y.  Cf. 
A,-S,  mang^  IceL  van(ft\  Ger  Angtr^  Goth. 
waggs,  meaning  meadow.  The  etymology  of 
tbaiie  words  seems  to  be  quit^  obscure. 

H.  P.  L, 

The  DATg  o?  the  Crucifixion  (9^  S.  vi. 
306j  412).— No  reason  is  given  for  connecting 
the  lunationii  with  the  "  seventy  days  Ijefore 
Pasch/'  so  the  question  remains  why  the  Itina- 
Uoos  applied  only  to  1  Tishri,  excluding  the 
other  months,  all  distinguished  as  rosA  kod^sk^ 
sometimes  including  two  days*  observance. 
Her©  we  may  note  tne  Roman  observance  of 
acclainiing  the  new  moon  by  sounding  the 
calendic,  ^&  cat  and  o  vel  vocando."  Clearly 
the  moon  wa.»  looked  for,  A.  H. 

'*Let  them  Atx  comb"  (9**'  S,  vi.  42G),— 
Thftckenay  and  Dickenii  have  i^npplied  anti 


Altamont  in  'Pendennis  <'chap.  xxxvii.), 
when  finally  brought  to  book,  exclaims,  **Let 
'em  all  come  on  and  try  what  they  can  do 
against  a  British  wailor"  ;  and  at  that  critical 
moment  in  the  career  of  Mr.  Pickwick  when 
Mfi*.  Bardell  flung  hor  arms  around  his  neck, 
causing  him  to  ejaculate,  **  If  anybody  should 
come^"  the  lady  rejoined,  *'Uh,  let  them 
come ;  1 11  never  leave  you." 

Ali^eed  F.  Bobbins. 


Nature  Myths  (9**^  S.  vi.  441),— Canon 
Taylor's  note  opens  up  a  large  subject,  of 
which  an  adequate  discussion  could  hardly 
be  permitted  within  the  limita  of  *N.  tk  Q.' 
The  explanation  suggesteil  by  your  corre- 
spondent of  the  origin  and  meaning  of  the 
myths  of  ancient  Hellas  is  attractive  to  poetic- 
ally minded  people,  but  it  may  be  doubted 
if  it  rei5ts  on  any  solid  ba.si8.  I  will  confine 
myself  to  one  of  Canon  Taylor's  examples— 
that  of  the  myth  of  Antieu**,  the 

**  son  of  the  aea  and  the  earth,  a  mighty  giant 
living  in  Libya*  whose  strenj^h  waa  iavincihie  m 
long  OA  ho  remained  in  conLaet  with  his  mother 
earth,  but  who  when  lifted  up  from  her  bofioiti 
and  held  iu  the  air  was  easily  crushed," 

This  myth  Canon  Taylor  snpposes  waa  de- 
rived from  Africa,  and  he  explains  it  by  the 
simoom,  or,  aa  he  incorrectly  spelU  it,  the 

**  simoon,  a  gleAiitio  column  of  Band  which  stftlkt 
through  the  desert,  and  can  only  last  bo  long  aft 
bv  contact  with  the  earth  it  C4in  obtain  freah  sup- 
plier of  sand,'' 

Now,  a  conclusion  can  only  be  logically  cor- 
rect if  it  is  based  on  correct  premises^  and  in 
this  case  the  premises  are  in  cor  recti  as  the 
simoom  is  not  a  column  of  sand,  but  a  acorching 
wund.  I  will  t^uote  the  definition  of  it  from 
the  Arabic  lexicon  of  Mr.  E.  W,  Lane,  whose 
authority  cannot  easily  be  disputed  :— 

*'  A  violent  and  entirely  hot  wind,  generally  occur- 
ring In  the  spnnj^  and  gutnmorT  in  Eprypt  and  the 
Egyptian  ^cHert,  uaually  pmceedinj?  from  the  »outh^ 
east  or  south-Boulh-eastj  prradually  darkening  the 
air  to  a  deep  purple  hue,  whether  or  not  (according 
to  the  natiire  of  the  tract  over  which  it  blows) 
accompanied  by  cloud li  of  du^t  or  aand,  and  ali 
length  entirely  concealing  the  sun;  but  seldom 
lasting  more  than  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or 
twenty  roinotes.'* 

It  will  be  seen  that  Canon  Taylor  has  con- 
fused the  wind  with  the  clouds  or  pillars  of 
sand  which  it  occasionally  raises,  and  which 
are  generally  known  in  the  Soudan  as  8haitans 
or  devils.  Thin  mistakedoes  not  entirely  vitiate 
his  explanation,  which  he  may  justly  say 
rests  on  tbings  and  not  on  names^  but  it  b 
odd  that  a  myth  should  have  passed  from 
Africa  into  Hellas,  and  yet  be  entirely  un- 
known to  the  people  among  whom  it  is  sup* 


cip»ti0iifl  of  thk  pbrnfie.     The  illui^trious  I  posed  to  hare  arlgiuated.    I  have  liTed  long 


36 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»*  s.  vn.  jan.  12. 1901. 


{LtnoTigst  Arabs,  and  fiava  been  in  more  than 
one  simoom^  but,  so  far  from  ovolvJug  myths^ 
the  first  thought  of  All  or  Jafir  is  t<)  wrap  up 
his  head  in  his  ahha  or  hiik  or  knJHlfen,  or 
whatever  may  bo  the  moat  convenit^nt  gar- 
ment at  hand,  and  throw  himself  on  the  sand 
with  his  nostril  a  close  to  the  ground,  and  thus 
escape  as  far  as  possible  the  oiasting  elFect  of 
the  scorching  blizzard.  The  name  of  aimoora, 
or,  ai  the  Arabs  voealizo  it,  mjmbity  ia  derived 
by  them  from  a  root  signifying  poison,  and 
they  look  on  it  as  a  poisonous  wind  and 
nothing  more. 

As  for  Atlas,  I  have  many  time«  sailed 
through  the  Btraits  of  Gibraltar,  and  can 
conceive  it  poaaible  that  some  pot^tical  Greek 
may  have  given  the  name  of  Atlas  to  the 
range  from  a  fancied  resemblance  to  the  giant 
who  in  his  mythology  bore  up  the  heavens 
on  his  shouldera.  But  I  should  doubt  if  the 
giant  of  the  myth  originated  with  the  moun- 
tain, which  probably  received  its  Greek  name 
long  aft«r  the  myth  was  established.  1  can- 
not really  see  much  difference  between  Canon 
Taylor's  theory  and  those  of  the  lat«  Prof. 
Max  Miiller  and  Sir  George  Cox.  Cakok 
Taylor  asserts  that  Zeus  is  the  sky,  but  will 
not  suppose  with  Max  Miiller  that  Athene  is 
the  dawn.  One  supposition  seem8  just  as 
likely,  or  unlikely,  as  the  other.  No  one  ever 
can  give  a  conclusive  explanation  of  the 
Greek  myths-  Tho^e  in  which  Semitic  names, 
such  as  Cadmus  or  Adonis,  occur,  may  be 
reasoD&bly  supposed  to  have  been  derived 
from  Eastern  sources  ;  tfie  others  were  either 
of  primieval  Aryan  origin,  or  were  inherited 
from  the  autochthuns  of  Thessaly,  Thi'ace,  or 
the  Peloponnesus,  or  finally  were  due  to  the 
inventiveness  of  tlie  Greek.s  themselves. 

W.  F\  Peideaux, 

It  was  supposed,  some  time  since,  that  the 
theory  of  nature  my  thy  had  been  abandoned. 
Bub  these  speculations  never  die.  Some  people 
cannot  believe  in  pure  injagination.  They 
think  that  all  fablea  are  atlegurtcah  But,  if 
the  Greek  fables  are  to  be  no  interpi^eted^ 
there  is  no  dilticuky  in  explaining  other 
things  in  the  same  way.  Volney,  in  his 
*  Ruins,*  has  explained  all  the  known  religions 
of  the  world,  including  the  Christian  religion, 
as  nature  myths.  I  did  not  read  carefully 
what  he  has  written^  for  1  do  not  like  the 
theory,  nor  do  I  believe  in  it  in  any  form. 
But  I  noticed  that  he  had  explained  them  so. 

E.  Yardley. 

Any  student  may  i>ecnmo  saturated  by 
a  study  of  works  by  the  lie  v.  Sir  G.  W.  Cox, 
Bart,,  &c. ;  his  *  Manual  of  Mythology,^  a  small 
educational  volume^  deals  largely  with  such 


sunuiae^.  As  a  small  contribution,  I  would 
sugge^it  that  the  pictured  hes^d  of  Medusa  is 
founded  on  a  study  of  the  ocfo^ms ;  we  have 
the  normal  oval  cuttlefish,  witfi  the  eight 
suckers  vibrating  as  if  actually  in  water, 

A.  Hall. 

Geo  Roi:  Abbott,  M,P.  for  T  am  worth,  1640-9 
(9^"^  8.  vi,  4M),— His  will,  proved  1(540  in  the 
C.P.C.  (54  Fairfax),  would  possibly  throw  some 
li^ht  on  the  queries  asked.  As  he  is  stated 
to  have  been  a  native  of  Yorkshire,  and  as 
we  know  he  was  born  in  or  about  lOOCI  (he 
died  2  February,  IC4B/9,  in  his  forty-fourth 
year),  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  entry 
at  Gray's  Inn,  10  Slay,  1024,  of  "George,  son 
and  heir  of  George  Abbott,  of  the  City  of 
York,  Esq./'  refers  to  him.  It  certainly  does 
not  refer  to  his  contemporary  George  Abbott, 
M.P.  for  Guildford  (witn  whom  he  is  so  of  t-en 
confused),  who  w^as  son  of  Sir  Maurice 
Abbott,  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  and  who 
was  baptized  14  June,  1601,  at  St  Stephen's. 
Coleman  Street,  Ijondon,  where  he  vvas  ouried 
14  November,  1645,  having  died  intestate  and 
without  male  issue  at  Salamanca. 

G.  E.  C. 

"  QaLLIMAUFEY  "  (9^  S.  vi.  408,  404),— 
Thanks  to  Ma.  Mayall,  it  ij*  now  possible 
to  make  out  what  is  meant.  It  turns  out  that 
the  mli'  in  eaUnaijWe  is  not  a  " preposition " 
in  the  grammatical  sense,  but  is  merely  a 
prefix.  The  latest  French  etymological 
dictionary  is  that  by  Hatzfela,  Darme- 
ateter,  and  Thomas,  pubHshecJ  at  I'aria,  and 
only  just  completed.  It  is  not  free  from  some 
remarkable  errors  (e.iy.,  the  meotion  of  "A.-S. 
;«/(?/'  g.v,  *Lai,'  No.  2),  but  it  contains  an 
admirable  treatise  on  the  formation  of  the 
French  language  by  way  of  preface.  At 
p.  B2  we  are  told  that 

**<"«,  rah  ra/ii  ^oltf  chart  are  different  fc^rme  of  a 
Ruttiic*  nf  obHi^tirc  orgiu,  ffmnd  onl^  in  French  in 
Proven ^^1.  It  ujtuaU^  hh^  tk  depreci&lory  $eiis«,  as 
iti ;  raliOtittr,  rMhrnhoyir^  reUemhrcdatHf.,  rfilt/Qurrhoti^ 
eaiiwittiih  rhanvafij   r<}litnm^an   {Norm Ml   ca/i/Jia- 

In  Darmesteter  s  *  Historical  French  Gram- 
mar,' English  edition,  sect.  S94,  subsection  6, 
it  is  called  **€yi/-,  a  particle  of  unknown  origin 
which  appears  in  the  forms :  ca-^  tal-y  mti-, 
cafejti-,  foa"-,  e/mH-^"*  I  beg  leave  to  recom- 
mend most  strongly  this  iiighly  scientific 
work.  Walter  W.  Beeat. 

ArniLL  Island  (9^^  S.  vi,  4B0).— We  have 
no  old  form  of  this  name,  and  therefore  its 

*  The  word  used  is  ncttiAlly  "  euffixe  "i  evidently 
a  slip  of  the  p^n  for  '*  prefix e."  For  it  invariably 
iKnuei  at  the  be^iauiag ;  aever  at  the  «nd. 


9»aviLjAN.i2,i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


37 


meaning  cannot  be  positively  detorminefi 
Bat  if  a  guP!>3  may  bo  liazardecl  it  is  iKwinibly 
from  edehaiU,  a  **  yew  wckkI/'  which  in  a  fertile 
source  of  Irish  names  j  among  which  arc 
Youghal,  Auphall,  Oonulnll,  and  in  the 
plural  Auf;:hiK  A>?lnlly,  and  Aghilla.  The 
form  Oghill,  which  in  the  name  nf  about 
twenty  t>[}wulaTid^  h  the  coinmoneMt. 

Isaac  Tayi/)R. 

Dr,  J*  Mervtjt  NooTn  (9'*'^  S.  vl  470). —In 
thelhtof  '"Officers  of  the  Howpitals  for  the 
Forcea  in  North  America'  in  1776  Br.  John 
Mervin  Nooth  appears  both  as  &  "  Physician 
Extraordinary"  and  as  a  "Purveyor/*  He 
waH  author  of  *An  Account  of  tli©  Medi- 
cinal Virtues  of  the  Prineifml  Mineral  Waters 
of  Great  Britain/  8vo,  1789,  W.  S. 

In  Cheriton  (Kent)  Churchyard  there  is  a 
memorial  to  James  Nooth,  Esq.,  late  pay- 
maijter  of  the  Dorset  Militia,  who  died  at 
Sand  gate  30  Decern  I  >er,  1814,  aged  seven  tjr- 
ofie.  It  also  states,  *'  Till  the  latter  part  of  hia 
life  he  practiiied  the  profession  of  a  burgeon." 

li  J,  l\ 

JULTIJB  C-asAE  (9""  S.  vl  407,  474).— In 
the  National  Porti-ait  Gallery  (Room  III.) 
there  is  a  portrait  by  Van  Soraer  of  Sir 
Juliua  C»3ar  (Adelmare),  Knt.,  Ma^iter  of  the 
Rol  la  On  th  e  f  ram  e  is  w  ri  tte  n  a  n  1  lor t  s  k  etc  h 
of  the  life.  His  father.  Dr.  Uafssar  Ad ol mare, 
from  Padua,  and  was  Court  Physician  to 


the  Queens  Mary  and  Kii^abeth*  It  was  ^*  by 
oomtiiand  of  Mary  I."  that  Dr.  Ctesar  Adel- 
mare  '"dropped  the  family  name,  and  became 
k n o wn  aa Csesar  only.*'  The  m other  of  C^sa r 
A/Ielmar  (or  Ad  el  mare)  was  daughter  to  the 
Duke  de  Cesarini^  from  whom  ne  had  the 
name  of  Ciesar  :— 

'*  In  December,  1757,  Sir  JuUuw  Cw»u.r*»  colkction 
uf  mftnuscripla,  whieh  hafi  lon^  beoi)  pr&'^en'ad  in 
tli«  f&inil^,  was  sold  by  r^iibhc  auction  by  Bam. 
Pat ersoTi.  By  ih^  lapse  of  time  and  tho  tlucay  of 
th*j  family,  they  had  fnUeii  into  the  hatidi^  of  liotiie 
urn  n formed  porsons,  and  were  on  the  tioinl  of  belni? 
•old  by  weight  to  a  ahee&emoDgier,  as  wa3te-]»aper, 
for  the  vam  of  ten  poaudii ;  but  g^nio  of  them  hap- 
pened to  b«  shown  to  Mr.  Pater&on,  who  instantly 
dis-zovered  thttjr  value.  He  then  digested  iint^vsti^rly 
csi^  iilogue  of  the  whole  coUcctJoUp  and  distriUutrng 
it  in  sttver&l  tbotiaauda  of  the  mont  interesting  heads, 
caii-i^d  them  to  be  sold  bv  auctiou»  which  proved 
3m^."— Chalmera's  'Biog.  l>ict.,'  1813- 

Betides  the  li^es  of  Sir  Julius  C^sar  and 
his  brother  Sir  Thomas,  tltere  i%  in  the  *  Diet. 
Nat.  Biog.'a  short  biography  of  JuHum  Cmsar 
(16fj6-1712X  phyaician  anri  musical  composer, 
who  lived  at  Boche^iter, 

"only  koowii  as  the  author  of  three  convivial 
oatche*  whkh  ajipeared  m  the&ijtth  edition  of  the 
*Pi«aiiiit  Magical  CoEXipamoa'  (1720).     He  was 


probably  the  same  JulinR  Cieiar  who  waa  the  son 
of  JoAeph  Cmaar,  a  Krandsnn  of  Dr*  Gerard  C{t?sar 
of  Canterhury,  who  k  sene rally  aiipvtosed  to  have 
been  grandson  <jf  8ir  Thomas  Ctt?sar, 

The  ijccond  instance,  as  quoted  by  Mb. 
Wn^ON,  of  a  Juliu.H  Cic^sar,  Maj4ter  of  the 
Kolh,  1815,  \H  seemingly  a  mi^itake  aa  to 
date.  The  third  J  ulius  he  mentions^  cheraiat 
student^  who  passed  hi?*  exarainationn  in  (I 
think)  IflTO,  is  at  present  ia  buaine?^  nt  the 
West -End  of  I^ndon  a^  a  chemist  (vuk 
*  London  Directory  % 

Hbrbert  B,  Clayton. 

30,  Renfrew  Road,  Lowtir  Kenninj^ton  Lane. 

There  i»  an  interesting  account  of  the 
family  of  Chester  of  Bush  Hall,  co.  Hert», 
and  a  notice  of  Sir  Julius  Coesar^  to  be  found 
in  Burke's  'Commoners,'  voL  ii.  pp.  16-21 
(1836).  It  is  there  said  that  "the  family  of 
Cte^ar  was  of  Italian  origin,  and  it^  an  castors, 
under  theaurnameof  Adelmare^  aprungfrooi 
Ademar,  Count  of  Genoa  and  Admiral  of 
France  in  the  jear  1080,  had  been  lotig 
settled  in  the  city  of  Treviso.^*  The  aame 
authority  says  that  "Sir  Julius  CiCi^ar  waa 
born  at  Tottenham  in  1557,  and  hy  the 
Queen's  deRire,  i.e.,  Elizabeth,  adopted  the 
latter  name"  as  a  surname.  His  second 
wife  wa«  a  niece  of  the  great  Lord  Bacon, 
and  he  diet!  in  1636.  Thi.n  ancient  family 
apparently  became  extinct  in  the  male  Hne 
about  1770. 

The  family  of  Chester  of  Bush  Hall  was  in 
eniHtence  in  1830,  and  in  the  bot)k  above 
mentioned  may  be  found  much  illustrative 
information  of  it  and  the  Ctesar  family. 
There  in  no  mention  of  this  family  in  Burke's 
'Landed  Gentry,*  but  a  pefJipree  is  given  of 
the  family  of  Chester  of  Chicheley  Hall, 
CO.  Bucks,  perhaps  col  laterally  descended, 
though  their  arms  are  quite  d liferent* 
Chicheley  is  a  village  near  Newport  Pagnell, 
and  1  can  weli  remember  the  monuments  of 
the  Cliej^ter  and  C&vg  families  in  the  church, 
anfl  UKcd  to  entertain  the  idea  that  the  name 
Chester  was  in  some  way  denved  from  that 
of  Ctesar.  No  doubt  much  further  informa- 
tion might  be  obtained  in  Clutterbuck'a 
'Hertfordsihire^  and  other  works. 

John  Pick  ford,  M.A. 
New  bourne  Rectory,  Woodb  ridge. 

I  think  the  Cji*sars  were  connected  with 
the  Vanlores  and  Alexanders  of  Heading. 

(Mr.**.)  J.  HAUTEyVlLLE  Coi'E. 
ki^ulhanmtead,  Berkiihire. 

The  two  lawyers  named  Sir  Julius  CiKsar 
were  one  man.  As  Master  of  the  Bolls 
he  married  a  third  wife,  Mrs,  H ungate ; 
he  died  in  1636^  and  the  date  given  as  1815 


38 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [^  s.  vii.  Jan.  12, 1901. 


is  an  erTOr,  to  which  I  drew  attention  at 
9*^  S.  vi.  331,  under  the  heading  of '  Vanishing 
London;'  A.  Hall. 

The  Penky  (9*^  S.  vi.  430X— It  will  be  found, 
upon  refereneo  to  Kadinps  S\nnala  of  the 
Coinage  of  Grmt  Britain/  vol.  ii,  n,  9*^,  tliat 
a  proclamation  was  issued  on  2ft  July,  1797, 
to  give  currency  to  a  new  coinage  of  cojpt^r 
rnoney  of  penny  and  twopenny  pieces.  Theae 
latter  were  the  fit's fc  and  IdJit  copper  two- 
penoy  pieces  that  were  struck  by  authority, 
and  tbey  were  coined  by  Jfensrs.  Boulton 
<k  Cq,»  of  Soho  Mint  at  Birmingham,  in  1797. 
The  base  copper  coins  were  withdrawn  from 
'^rculation  at  this  date^ 

F,  G.  Hilton  Pbice. 

If  Mr.  Mtlne  has  not  access  to  tbe  larger 
works  on  English  coins  {such  as  TI.  Rudingls 
*  Annak  of  the  Coinage  of  Great  Britain  and 
its  Dependencies,'  third  ed,,  London,  1870), 
be  will  lind  moHt  of  the  information  be  eeeks 
at  p.  113  of  a  most  charming  duodecimo, 
'Tbe  Story  of  the  British  Coinage,*  by 
Gertrude  B.  Rawlinga  (London,  I898X  which 
he  may  purchase  in  London  for  tbe  "  nimble 
ninepence."  Q,  V, 

Copper  twopenny  pieces  were  only  coined 
in  one  year^  namely,  1797*  They  are  by  no 
means  rare,  but  a  good  s}>ecimen  easily  sells 
for  two  shillings,  Tbe  price  for  specimens 
in  a  fairly  ^ood  state^  of  preservation  varies 
from  one  shilling  to  eighteen  pence, 

Chas,  F.  FoftSHAw,  LL.D. 

Margery  (9^^  S.  vi.  151,  352,  455).— Marget 
— not,  probably,  "Margett"— is  a  common 
contraction  for  Margaret  in  the  Scottish  pro- 
vinces. Illustrations  will  probably  be  found 
in  the  character-studies  of  Mrs.  Olipbant^ 
Miss  Ethel  F.  Heddle,  and  other  writ^era  of 
Bcottisb  fiction.  I  have  various  acquaint- 
ances christened  Margaret^  whom  I  invariably 
call  "  Marget "  in  keeping  with  prevalent 
practice.  The  owners  of  the  name  would 
uncjuestionably  think  there  was  something 
amiss  if  they  were  suddenly  addressed  as 
Margaret  by  f  ri  en  dor  acq  u  ai  n  tance.  Ma  rjory 
is  contracted  to  *^  Madge." 

Thomas  Baynk. 

In  reply  to  the  query  as  to  whether  Mar- 
gett  is  tbe  equivalent  of  Margaret,  it  may  be 
stated  that  *£tigligh  Surnatnes/  p.  7fl,  gives 
Margetts  as  one  of  the  many  variants  of  the 
name,  Arthur  Mat.\ll. 

Margett  is  constantly  used  in  Scotland,  at 
least  by  the  humbler  classes,  for  Margaret. 

George  AHotrs. 
gt.  Andrews,  N.B, 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  Ac. 

Tht  fipmawe  of  the  Roiv.    By  W.  LorriH  and  J, 
Clopinel     Englished    by   F,   8.    Ellis,     3    vols* 
{Dent.) 
Three    lovely   littl©    volumes   of    the    "Temtile 
Claasicn"  ana  occapied  with  a  translation  by  Mr. 
F,  J^.  Ellis  i>f  the  lamoua  *  RomanoB  of  the  Rose ' 
C  Lo  Roman  de  la  Ro»e  ')  of  GiiJllaum*^  Lorrls  and 
Jean  d&  Meun^  known  m  Clopiael  (the  Halt).     A 
flufHc]C50tly  formidable  task  is  eoaayed  by  one  who 
Kt^eka  to  rend«3i-  lata  English  verse    a    mediseval 
niaaterpiecre  which  belon^a  to  the  thirteenth  ceo- 
tury,  and  is  longer  by  8,000  linea  than  the  *  l>ivin© 
Comedy.'    Chancer,  it  is  well  koonn,  began   this 
labour  and  loft  it  unfiniahed,  the  mrt  undoubtedly 
hia  extending  to  no  more  than  1,705  Imea  out  of 
22,074t  and  that  wrongfully  a  as  joined  bim  carrying 
the  work  no  further  than  tbe  jfiyi^tli  line.     Mr. 
Ellis,  however,  is  not  a  man  e/isily  to  be  daunted. 
To  him  we  owe  an  entire  rendering  in  verse  of 
'  Keynard  the  Fox/  and  to  him  also  is  largely  due 
tb©  rendering  of  the  *  l^geuda  A  urea/  or  ^Golden 
Legend/    From  Mr.  EUi^i  atjcardingly,  w©  receive 
what  we  believe  to  be  the  firat  comiilete  rendering 
that  has  eoni©  within  ken.    Begujied  by  his  aub- 
jeetj  Hr.  EUis  has  gone  on  doln^a  little  daily  until 
tbe  entire  poem,  with  a  utodihed  termination,  Is 
before  ua  in    a   fluent,  able,   &nd    most    readabb 
version.   This  is  a  great  work  to  have  actiompUshed. 
Among  men  who  rank  as  scholars  there  are  few 
who  know  the  *  Roman  de  la  Ro^e*  otherwise  tlian 
by  report.     Readers  of  thirteontb-oentury  Frenl;^h 
are  ft^w  both  in  tbia  country  ftnd  abroad,  and  the 
average  student  of  Chaucer  even  is  not  likely  to 
have    followed    very    closely    a    trauaiation   that 
appeals  more   etroogiy  to   pbilolofEiata    than   any 
other  el  ass.     An  idea  prevails  that  the  work  is  dull, 
allegorical,  and   mysterious.      That   it  is^   in   fact, 
quite  other  is  shown  by  8ir  Walter  Be^unt ;  but 
everybody  is  not  ao  familiar  as  be  should  be  with 
*Tlie  French  Humourists/    That  there  ia  a  deep 
allegorieal    meaning   nnderneath  the  long  dream- 
poem  19  belli  bv  tiiose  beat  calculated  to  judge, 
including  Mr.   Ellis.      We    may,   however,    recall 
HaKlitt's  —  waa    it    not    his?— encouragement    to 
readers  of  iSijenser  to  take  heart  since  the  allegory 
will  not  bit^a.    The  book  is  written  in  what  was  in 
mediaeval  times  a  favourite  form>  that  of  a  drejim. 
It  dilfi^rs  from  most  works  of  its  cliui  and  epoi^h  in 
substituting   cheerfulness  for  tbe    melancholy    in 
wbieh  much  early  wra'k  is  steeped.     The  short  first 
part,  indeed,  of  Guillaume  de  Lorris  might  easily 
pass  for  a  lovesick  vision  of  a  youth.    The  assump- 
tion is  that  it  was  writt-on  by  a.  lad  of  little  over 
twenty.     In  the  second  portion  wo  have  atri kingly 
misogynistie  sentiment  and,  as  was  to  be  expccttj, 
severe  attacks  upon    an    ignorant  and  licentious 
priesthood.    At  anv  rate,  tiie  entire  work  can  be 
easily  and  pleiBantly  read  in    Mr.  ElUa'a  transla- 
tion.    How  this  rendering  baa  been  accomplished 
it  is  not  easy  lo  show.    Mr,    EUis^s  poetry  has  a 
Morrisian  quality,  and  runs  on  with  an  agreeable 
flow  of  oicellence.     It  is  accordingly  difficult — im- 
possible, indeed— to  find  a  passage  cajiable  of  being 
quoted  within  limits  such  as  wo  are  compelled  to 
observe.     VVe  may  aay,  however,  that  as  regards 
invective  against  woman  we  have  to  go  to  *  8Wmaon 
Agonistes'  to  find  eondemnation   equally  severe. 
Through  all  praiae  heri  eayi  our  cynii^  poeU 


V  8.  viL  Jas.  12. 1901.J       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


39 


E'en  though  no  beauty  ahe  po«fieaa. 
By  Nat  tire  atumpeii  with  iiglirieaa, 
Fear  not.  Imt  prai^o  her  fairy  fac^i 
Her  perfect  form  and  ungel  gractj, 
Aod  liRhtly  flh«'U  believe  yciur  word, 
For  never  yet  hath  wonmii  heard 
Her  beauty  praiied  without  delight. 

LI,  10,401*7. 

ConeeminK  the  altered  termination,  we  know  not 
what  lo  tmy,  Tlitttihe  close  of  the  origiiialiKtinauitcd 
to  modern  iiLate  h  true,  Mr,  Kills  aeelci  to  ni&ko 
hi»  work  fiopular,  and  there  ftre  good  reaeona  why 
he  fthould  not  shock  hh  readers.  When,  as  in  the 
pre*eQt  e&ae,  a  book  reprt.'fleniB  tho  spirit  of  an 
epoch,  we  are  diaposed  to  think  we  «hould  aec  it  aa 
it  i»  ID  iU  trae  colours.  Tiit^re  are  limits,  liow  ever, 
which  should  not  he  yns^'d,  Liko  other  voliimefi 
of  the  **  Temple  Cloaaita,"  tho  boiiks  are  oxiiui^Jte, 
The  14£0  edition  of  the  original  hot  Rome  quaint 
and  rude  <ie«iBii«  of  much  intereflt^  which  are  repro- 
duce in  the  r  ranch  edition  of  Pierre  Marteaiu 

Pheto^rami  of  the  Ytar  1900.  (Dawbam  &  Ward,} 
05C5  more  an  eminently  creditable  jaroduet  of  the 
year  ia  presented  in  the  Photofjram.  In  land&capea 
£iiglish  and  American  photographers  attain  uiar- 
Telloufl  effects  of  difltanco,  and  many  of  the  viewi 
^reo  have  the  softneaa  of  the  beat  engravinKa,  If 
ti^re  subjects  are  on  the  whole  less  ijucce§j!fut,  it 
ia  be(!au9e  good  mode  is  are  not  always  attainaljlc. 
£Spac«  faiU  us  to  deal  with  the  eubject^  generally, 
but  Enany  of  them  are  of  reniarkabie  beauty. 

We  have  received  many  part«  of  the  "Useful 
ArU  Scriea*'  (Daw barn  k  Ward),  among  which 
Jtmdry  tmd  TrijikH^^  by  Mr,  Alec  Teague;  AfUrrH' 
m€ni  of  tht  IfmtJi€f  bv  C  G,  Leland  ;  and  Stone 
CuffiTw  and  Polishinff^Dy  Mr.  George  Day^  doaerve 
special  mention, 

Mem:  (J  M^n.th!y  Hetcnrd  of  Anthropolofftftd 
Sdemee^  pnbliahed  under  the  direction  of  tho 
Anthropologjcat  Inatitute,  makaa  a  aueoeaaful  first 
•.ppearance.  It  aims  at  l^ing  a  monthly  notice  of 
pciofrresii  in  the  various  branches  of  anthroixilogical 
■tady,  and  will  devote  moat  attention  to  those 
mmttera  which  are  Jea^t  adeuuately  dcatt  with  in 
existing  period  Lcals*  In  adnition  to  other  illus- 
tralions,  the  opening  number  has  a  coloured 
■     "  idr        ■         '    '    * 


__^_  of  a  Bnddhist  wheel  of  life  from  Japan,  a 
fnO  explanation  of  which  u  given  by  Mr*  N,  W, 
Thomvi-  Among  other  contents  are  an  account 
by  Mr.  Henry  Raiford  of  a  gmU<^he  imttern  on  an 
Etrnacan  [lotflherd,  a  description  of  nativu  smoking 
pifrea  from  Natal ,  and  an  esitay  by  Dr.  Charlea 
i>aviea  on  consanguinity.  Man  bids  fair  to  be 
popular.  Our  only  objection  is  the  colour  of  the 
cover,  which  retidera  the  letterpresa  u^xtn  it  diliieult 
to  aged  i^ht. 

FotXown^G  an  example  set  by  the  C&t-nhtff^  the 
Fortmahiiif  supplies  an  account  of  il»  fotttidation 
and  of  its  successive  editors.  There  is  nothint^  in 
thia  very  start  ling^,  and  to  many  of  us  the  informa* 
lioii  conveyed  is  not  altogether  now.  It  is  needless  l<i 
tay,  however,  that  the  record  Is  honourable,  and 
that  the  list  of  contributors  to  the  magai^ine  during 
its  entire  career  if*  briiltant.  There  ar«  a  few  of  the 
articles  in  it  which  are  non-controversiai  in  charac- 
ter. Among  them  may  be  included  the  tt  ihutes  to 
Sir  Arthtir  Sullivan  or  Mr*  Vernon  Bkckbum  and 
Mr*  CoiarDi  Corr,     We  sr«  scacoeiy  prepared  to 


hear  from  Mr.  Blackburn  that  Sullivan  had  '*  some- 
what oat  lived  his  period,**  thou|jh  it  is  a  fact  that 
iU  health  had  interfered  with  hii  later  effor|a.  In 
his  cose,  moreover,  there  was  Hcarcely  **  a  cruel 
advance  of  y^ars  "i  Hullivan  was  younger  than  many 
men  still  in  active  employment,  Mr.  Cart's  tributo 
to  Sullivan's  iierBonat  charm  is  handsome  and  elo- 
quent. Mr,  Arthur  Svmons  does  full  justice  to 
'The  Painters  of  Seville'  Senex  speaks  in  terms 
of  eKtrcme  eidoio^  '>f  Mr.  Stephen  Phillips's  new 
drama  of 'Herod.'  xMorediacnnnnatingisthe  homage 
paid  to  Lord  Hosebery's  *  Napoleon '  by  Judge 
O'Connor  Morris.  Lord  Rosebery  is  charged  with 
putting  too  much  faitii  in  the  recently  published 
memoirs  of  Gourgaud.  Judgo  O'Connor  Morris's 
estimate  of  Napoleon  is  that  he  was  "a  Hannibal 
in  war,  a  Charlemaifne  in  peace/'  Mr,  Frederic 
Harrison  bci?tnwa  what  sccma  rather  extravagant 
eulogjr  upon  Mr.  "Maurice  Hewlett/'  whoso  recent 
work  is,  however,  anfficiently  reniarkabie.    '  A  For* 

Sot  ten  Pr<3phet/by  Mr.  W,  S»  Lilly,  discusses  Sir 
ohn  Byle<!,  some  characteristic  utterances  of  M-hom 
are  tiuoted.— In  common  with  olher9»  we  wondered 
what  the  Xtnitefnth  Canhirfi  would  call  itaelf  when 
the  advent  of  the  twentieth  put,  so  U}  sjteak,  its 
nose  out  of  loint.  The  answer  comes.  It  ia  to  be 
called  tho  Xineietiifh  Cettfitrj/  ajtd  A  fter.  Against 
this  it  may  be  urged  that  the  full  name  will 
never  be  employed  outside  the  ofSce,  and  that  a 
•'Twentieth  Century"  rival  of  some  sort  is  sure  to 
apji-ear.  A  frontiapjece  by  Sir  Edward  J*  Poynter. 
a  ho  wing  a  Janiform  head  from  a  Greek  coin  of 
Tenedofl,  is  supplied-  The  first  article  for  tho 
century  consists  of  a  poem  by  Mr.  Stephen  Phillips, 
entitled  *  Midnight,  December  .list,  I9()0.'  '  Euk- 
land's  Peasontry-^Then  ami  Now,'  by  Dr.  Jessopp, 
holds  that  the  condition  of  the  farm  labourer  at  the 
outset  of  tho  past  century  wa<i  in  the  main  happier 
than  now  it  is.  The  labourer  is  now  better  clad 
Emd  better  fed  than  his  predecessors,  who,  however, 
were  much  more  gay  and  light  hearted^  Aa  to  the 
farm  labonrer  of  the  futui*e,  Dr.  Jessopp  haa  some 
doubts  whether  such  a  being  wilt  exist.  Lady 
Ponaonby  sends  a  second  instalment  of  '  The  Role 
of  Woman  in  Society.*  It  is  very  agreeable,  but  not 
wholly  encouraging  reading,  especially  when  it 
deals  with  the  Lngltshwomcn  of  to-day.  Writing 
on  'Hooliganism,'  Mr.  John  Trevarthen  fails  to  see 
that  its  fipread  is  due  to  the  total  abolition  of  dis> 
tipline  as  regards  youth.  Discipline  is  what  converts 
the  yokel  into  the  hero.  It  is  now  done  away  with 
as  regards  the  boy»  with  the  reJiultfi  that  we  witness. 
Mr,  Henry  Jephnon  suggests  *  A  Day  of  Purificja- 
tion,'  for  the  approach  of  which  he  will  have  to 
**  wait  a  little  longer.'*  Mr.  John  Collier's  varying 
ideas  of  *  Human  Beauty '  repay  careful  perusal  — 
Under  the  oditorfihip  of  Mr.  < wcorce  R.  Halkett,  the 
PaU  Mail  opens  with  an  extcllent  account  of 
Clumber,  by  tho  Duohi^ss  of  Newcastle.  This  is 
illustrated  by  photographs  by  llic  Duke.  Some  of 
these  repmdiieo  pictures  from  tho  galleries^  the 
most  interesting  of  which  is  Dobsoni*  portrait  of 
William  Cavendish,  the  great  first  duke.  It  «howi 
a  fine  and  thouji^htful  face.  We  fihoiild  have  been 
glad  of  a  comjmnion  pir^tnre  of  the  even  more 
interesting  first  duchesSi  **Ma(i  Mejc  of  Newcastle/* 
as  she  wa^i  irreverently  called  by  the  ribalda  of  the 
Ccmrt.  A  characteristic  letter  of  Hen  Jfi»naon, 
appealing  for  aseislanee,  is  cinoteil,  A  frontispiece 
to  tho  number  consiflta  of  a  delichtful  photogravure 
of  Gainsboroagh*B  *  tlountesa  of  Lin  coin. '  Madame 
Mftrie  ran  Voorit  haa  cui  exoelient  coutributioD 


40 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     [y*^  s.  vii.  Jan.  12, 1901. 


upon  Rodin,  the  great  sculptor.  Misw  EUzabelh 
•  Robins  deacribea  *  A  Visit  to  Car*e  Name,'  &  sur- 
prisiiiKly  bold  eitciirsioo  for  a  lady,  M  r.  John  Foator 
Frase?a  account  of  *  The  New  Hoii»e  of  Commons ' 
iii  i }  luatratod  by  carimtures,  M  n  W  i  □  alon  ^  pen  eer 
Chorchill  vindicates  the  Uritish  officer.  Mr.  Wil- 
liam Archer  tftkea  an  optimistic  survey  of  thtj 
drama,  and  Mr,  Max  Boerbohin  expounda  vhat  ia 

*  The  Spirit  of  Caricature/— A  ^mp^f  in  St^rihnefn 
on  Augoate  Rodin,  the  scul|>tor,  reprodutea  all 
but  e3tactly  tlio  lUuBtratiotia  Kiven  in  that  (already 
noticed)  in  the  Full  Mali.  This  is  comprehensible 
enough,  the  most  familiar  work  beinj;  naturally 
the  moat  easily  acceaaibly.  Mr.  Horton  give*  a 
verj  readable  account  of  'Modern  Athens,'  to 
which  Mr.  Lin  son  supplieR  atjuie  ajipetixing  illus* 
trations.  M  r*  Henry  James  ha<^  a  uhai^cteriat  ically 
delightful  eaaay  on  *  W  ineheftter|  Rye,  and  **  Dun  is 
Duval,"*  with  a  capital  view  of  Mormaid  Street, 
Rye.  *  Russia  of  To-day'  continue  very  interesit- 
ing.  The  views  of  Tittis  and  the  Georgian  Road  are 
very  striking.  Four  more  paiicrB  have  to  apnea r, 
when  the  whole  will  doubtless  be  issued  in  book 
form.  *A  ComimriBQt]  of  the  Arraiea  iu  China'  Is 
instructive  ami  important.  The  entire  number 
is  of  very  varied  interest,— The  CornkUl  makes  a 
■imrt  with  the  new  century.  Its  most  interesting 
paper  ia  Mr.  George  M,  Smith's  *  Account  of  the 
Birth  and  Parentage*  of  the  magazine,  which 
are  due  to  him.  Besides  being  a  moat  readable 
paper,  it  is  a  genuine  contribution  to  our  knowledge 
of  1  itera  ry  h  ia  to  ry .  *  W  i  t  h  the  Hu  n  treas, '  a  charac- 
ter istic  poem  by  George  Meredith,  stands  first 
a  man  (J  the  contents.  'More  Light  on  8t,  Helen:*,' 
which  is  editud  by  Sir  Herbert  Maxwell,  will  ho 
read  with  esctreme  interest  by  the  adniirera,  now 
innumerable,  of  Napoleon  Bupaparte.  Mrs.  Rich* 
mond  Hitch lu  supplies  No.  2  of  the  '  Black atick 
Pai»ers.*   Mr.  Andrew  Lang  sunds  a  brilliant  paper ^ 

*  Examinations  in  Fiction/  Dr.  A.  Conan  Doyle,  in 
'  The  Military  Leasons  of  the  War,*  answers  his 
critics.  Sir  Henry  M.  Stanley  shows  how  on  one 
oecaeion  be  acted  as  missionary,  Tho  Rev.  W,  H. 
FJtchett  begins  au  account,  at  once  dramatic  and 
pjctucostiue,  of  the  great  Indian  Mutiny.  Urbanus 
Sylvan,  whose  inversion  of  a  name  wo  the  more 
regret  now  that  we  know  how  great  a  man  he  is, 
sends  from  Stamford  the  first  of  a  serica  of  *  Pro- 
vincial Letters.*  A  truly  appetizing  bill  of  fare  is, 
it  is  seen,  provided  for  the  new  year.  Other  novel- 
ties are  promised  in  what  remains  the  most  at- 
tractive and  etitertaining  of  magazines.— In  the 
GtnHf.maji'H  Mr,  K.  Perronet  Thoniijson  deacrilies 
the  very  myalerious  '  Addineley  Murders.'  '  An 
Old  High  Town  and  au  Old  Palace,'  by  Mr.  Percy 
Fitzgerald,  deal  resmctively  with  Boulogne  and 
Kew.  Mr.  Albert  M,  Hyamaon  has  a  jKiper  on 
'False  Messiahs,'  who  have  been  sutiiciently 
numerous,— 'Summering  in  Canadian  Backwoods,' 
in  Longman- a,  is  a  pleasant  piece  of  descriptive 
writing.  Of  more  immediate  mt<?feat  is  *  Nature  in 
London,' by  Mr*  Dewar,  some  of  the  statements  in 
which  we  can  confirtii  from  personal  observation. 
'Quotation/  by  Mr.  H.  VV.  Fowler,  in  Rood,  but 
scarcely  an  adequate  treat tticnt  of  a  great  subject. 
In  *  At  the  Si^^n  of  the  8hip'  Mr,  Lang,  who  in 
always  entertaining  and  not  seldom  controversial, 
attacks  once  mare  the  cult  of  book-iilatce.  —  In 
Cuiim^fs  Ma^a'Jtf^  ap|iears  the  first  inatalm^iint  of 
Mr.  Budyard  Ri tiling's  story  *  Kim,'  The  cover 
bai4  a  striking  portrait  of  Mr*  Kipling;,  The  cou- 
teati  geiitir&Uy  ore  amusing  and  the  illustrationB 


numerous.— Caasell's  y^w  Pcnnu   Maffaziae    la   a 
inarvei  of  cheapness. 

Mr,  R,  W,  BtyNS,  F,S.A.,  of  Worcester,  who 
died  recently  at  an  advanced  age,  was  au  authority 
on  Worcester  jioreelain,  which  he  did  much  to 
improve.      He  was  an   ocoasional  contributor  to 

*N.&g/         ^^ 

Wc  mu3t  taii  ^ecuU  atimii<m  to  the  ffMowing 
notices  :-^ 

On  all  comnuinicationa  must  be  written  the  name 
and  iM^idreujf  uf  the  sender,  not  neceasarily  for  pub- 
lication, but  aa  a  guarant,cre  of  good  faith. 

Wk  cannot  under tako  to  answer  queries  privately^ 

To  secure  insertion  of  commimioations  eorre- 
s|.Kjndents  must  observe  the  following  rules.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  |iai>er,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
auch  address  as  he  wishes  lo  ai>j>ear.  When  answer- 
ing ijueriea^  or  making  notea  with  regard  to  previous 
entries  in  the  paper,  contribntora  are  r^uested  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exact 
heading,  the  aeries,  volume,  and  page  or  pogea  to 
which  tbey  refer.  Correapoudenu  who  tejmaX 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  i^m- 
raumcatiou  *' Duplicate." 

HiceARD  Lawson-.- 1,  Blackfriara  was  »o  named 
after  a  brotherhtiod  of  bia<;k,  preaching,  or  Domi* 
nican  friars,  founded  by  Hubert  de  Burgh  in  P221, 
and  removed  in  1276  from  their  house  in  Hol- 
boriii  near  Lincoln's  Inn,  to  the  church,  precinct, 
and  sanctuary  between  Ludgate  Hill  and  the 
Thames,  and  extending  westward  from  Castle 
Baynard  (St,  Andrew's  Hill}  to  tlie  Fleet  riven 
"2.  The  first  bridge  at  Black  friars,  erected 
from  the  designs  oi  Robert  Mylne,  of  Edin- 
burgh, was  opened  Sunday,  10  Nov.,  J  769.  It 
was  first  called  Pitt  Bridge.  There  was,  we  be- 
lieve, no  wooden  bridge  there  cxeept  the  tem|>orary 
atrnotura  existing  between  iStiU  and  1869,  ^hon  the 
present  bridge  was  being  built.  —  S.  Blaekfriara 
Theatre^  fonnded  by  James  Burbage  in  1596-7^ 
stood  in  the  precinct  of  the  BlackfHars.  On  5  Aug,, 
l\j^^  after  a  troublous  cxiatenee,  it  was  jmUed 
down.  Part  of  the  ground  on  which  it  stood  is 
slill  called  playhouse  Yard,  The  above  informa- 
tion is  from  Wheat  ley  and  Cuuniughao/s  'London 
Old  and  New/  where  further  i>ttrticulare  may  be 
found. 

QiVEiusT.- Btmd  cardi  which  has  not  turned  up 
in  your  letter. 

D.  M„  Philadelphia  ("Three  Best  Novels").— 
All  such  inquiries  strike  us  as  futile. 

Col.  RivETrCARNAi!  ("Suffolk  Leather  Case ")• 
— Has  not  been  received, 

CojtiiniKSiJtf.M.— 9tk»  S.  vi.  503,  eoL  L  L  2fi,  for 
"  Falmouth  "  read  J^^amworth, 

NOT/CS, 

Editorial  Communieationa  should  be  addressed  to 
"  The  Editor  ot  '  Notea  and  Queries '  " — Advertise- 
ments and  Business  Letters  to  "The  Publisher"— 
at  the  0£ce,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane»  E.C. 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decliiie  to  return 
oommtmioations  which,  for  any  reasoni  we  do  not 
print ;  &iid  to  this  rule  we  eaa  make  no  exocptioii. 


kxuvn 

».    d. 

raa  ajijiuv 
$.  d. 

7     6 

Lontpfnan's        

6    0 

13    0 

MaciniilHirs      

7    6 

lU    tf 

National  Kcview         

16    0 

16    0 

Niu«teentii  Ceutary 

16    U 

7    « 

Pall  Mall           

«    0 

6    0 

Revue  dea  Deux  Mondet     

30    0 

16    0 

Scribner't          

7    6 

9    0 

Temple  Bar      

7    6 

vn.  Jan.  12, 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

Messrs,  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBPARTMBNT 

TKx  TOLLOwnre 

MAOAZINBS  AND  T  TPP  APV    PHPTPQ  WITHDRAWN  FROM 

KBV1BW8.  iJii>JCWii£W  I     vUriJBjD  CIRCULATION, 

JTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

Until  further  notice  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


jod'a      

porary  Review         

I 

lUastrated 

htiy  Review 

• f 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE, 
rgh       7    6 1  Quarterly  7    0 

be  terms  will  be  li.  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Subscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalls  to 
he  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

QBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BB  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  than 
jVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAT  COMMENCE  AT  ANT  DATE. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

V.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  tke  Railway  Bookttallt,  to  which  plaeei  they  will  be  forwarded  oarriage  free, 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  PubUjhed   offered 

UBY  MAQAZINB,  The.    VoU.  17,  20,  and  32      each  8    6  ...  J  1j 

(LNTA  MAQAZINB.    Vol,  6     8    0  ...  3  6 

ON  SOCIETY.    2  volt,  for  1891          16    0  ...  3  6 

'J  voli.  for  1»92         16    0  ...  3  6 

ILL'S  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1898,  to  May,  1899.    Illustrated ...  3  6 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       ...  a  « 

[BBRS'S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITERATURB.  SCIBNOB.  and  ARTS.    Vol.  for  1892 9    0  ...  3  « 

Vol.  for  1895 9    0  ...  3  « 

Vol.  for  1896 9    0  ..  3  « 

Vol.  for  1»97 9    0  ...  3  « 

Vol.  for  1898 9    0  ...  3  « 

Vol.  for  1899 9    0  ...  3  « 

BB  VOLUME.    November,  1897,  to  April,  1898 ...  2  6 

November,  1898,  to  April,  1899 ...  2  « 

May  to  October,  1899  ...    a    8 

)  WORDS.    VoU.  for  1888,  1892,  1894,  1895,  1896,  1897,  aud  1898         7    «...    2    H 

lAX  MAQAZINB.    VoU.  for  1889,  1892, 1894.  1895,  1896.  and  1898      9    0    ...    2    6 


W.  H.  SMITH  k  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186.  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  BaUway  BookatalU.  to  which  placet  SubKsriben  can  be  transferred,  free  of  charge. 

FrotpteUu  of  Termt,  4fc.,  s«U  fru  upon  applieaUon  to  186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9»  s.  vil  Jan.  12, 1901. 

NOW  READY. 

THE       LIBRARY. 

A  Quarterly  Beview  of  Bibliography  and  Library  Lore. 
Edited  by  J.  Y.  W.  MAC-ALISTER. 

In  Collaboration  Tfvith  LEOPOLD  DELISLB,  CARL  DZIATZKO,  MBLVIL  DEWE7, 

RICHARD  GARNBTT. 

VOLUME  I,  bouLd  in  red  clotb,  price  }2t.  net. ;  or  in  4  Parts,  Zt.  net  per  Part. 

VOLUME,  I,  contains  the  following  Portraits  .— 
RICHARD  GARNETT,  RICHARD  COPLEY  CHRISTIE,  HERBERT  PUTNAM,  KARL  DZLATZKO. 

JlsOf  among  others,  the  following  Articles : — 
The  EDINBURGH  EDITION  of  SIDNEY'S  ARCADIA.    By  H.  R.  Plomer. 
SOME  PRIVATE  PRESSES  of  the  NINETEENTH  CENTURY.    By  H.  R.  Plomer. 
THREE  BINDINGS  with  LITTLE  GIDDING  STAMPS.     By  Cyril  Davenport. 
KING  CHARLES  Vb  EMBROIDERED  BIBLE.    By  Cyril  Davenport. 
ENGLISH  ROYAL  COLLECTORS.    By  W.  Y.  Fletcher. 
The  KING'S  PRINTER  at  SHRBWSBDRY.    By  W.  H.  AUnutt. 
WOODCUTS  in  ENGLISH  PLAYS  PRINTED  BEFORB  1660.     By  A.  W.  PoUard. 
The  "POOLING"  of  PRIVATE  LIBRARIES.    By  G.  Soames  Layard. 
The  BRITISH  MUSEUM  REVISED  RULES  for  CATALOGUING.    By  H.  B.  Wheatley. 
ARCHITECTURE  for  LIBRARIES.     By  Beresford  Pite. 
HOW  THINGS  are  DONE  in  ONE  AMERICAN  LIBRARY.    By  F.  M.  Cninden. 

Other  Contribution«  by  L.  Delirie,  Dr.  Gamett,  W.  H.  J.  Weale,  M.  H.  Spielmann,  J.  L.  Boose,  B.  F. 
Strange,  R.  Proctor,  &c,  

NOW  READY. 
Vol.  II.  Part  No.  5,  price  3«.  net. 
FRONTISPIECE :— PORTRAIT  of  LEOPOLD  DELISLE. 
The  QUOTATIONS  in  WALTON'S  ANGLER.    By  Austin  Dotson. 
ENGLISH  COLLECTORS  of  BALLADS  and  BROADSIDES.    By  W.  Y.  Fletcher. 
HOW  THINGS  are  DONE  in  ONE  AMERICAN  LIBRARY.    (Concladei.)    By  F.  M.  Cmndeo. 
The  JUVENILE  LIBRARY.    By  W.  B.  A.  Axon. 
A  MEDITATION  on  DIRECTORIES.     By  A.  W.  Pollard. 
The  GUTENBERG  BIBLE.    By  R.  Proctor. 
SOME  OLD  INITIAL  LETTERS.    (Illustrated.)    By  Oscar  Jennmgs. 

REVIEWS  — BOOK-PRICES   CURRENT— A   CABOT    BIBLIOGRAPHY— NOTES   on   BOOKS    and 
WORK. 


London:  KEGAN  PAUL,  TRENCH,  TRUBNE II  k  CO.,  Limithd, 
Paternoster  House,  Charing  Cross  Road,  W.C. 

Pilatod  by  JOHN  VDWARD  FRANCIS,  Athea«am  Prett,  Braan's  Balldlnft.  Cbaamrr  Lm*.  B.0.  i  u4  PibUaktd  bir 
JOHN  0.  PAAMCU  tt  Brmnt  BaUolnf*.  dUMnottj  Um,  X.c.--ail«r4«y.  Jmnurf  It,  imi,^^^  ^ 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 

%  S^Mmn  af  j|ntercommuutation 


FOB 


LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


**Wlien  found,  make  a  note  of."— Captain  Guttle. 


No. 


160.  rNi-™! 


LBbbusJ 


Saturday,  January  19,  1901.        { 


PBIOS  FOtTBPEHOB. 
M9giitir$d  —  m  Ntm$pmpmr» 


ARCHIBALD  CONSTABLE  &  CO.,  Ltd. 


MOW  READY  AT  ALL  BOOKSELLERS'  AMD 
LIBRARIES. 

STUDIES  IN  PEERAGE  AND 
FAMILY  HISTORY. 

By  J.  HORACE  ROUND,  M.A., 

Author  of  *  The  Commane  of  LondoD,'  *  Feudal 
England,*  kc. 

Demy  8to,  cloth  gilt,  496-xzxi  pp.  I2t,  6d.  net. 

As  a  recognised  authority  on  peerage  history  the 
author  has  dealt  with  the  origin  and  descent  of 
seToral  titples  of  honour,  and  has,  in  some  cases,  cri- 
ticised the  right  to  bear  them.  The  revival  of 
interest  in  heraldic  art  has  led  him  to  enlighten  the 
public  on  the  value  of  grants  of  arms,  and  he  has  also 
endeavoured,  by  selected  instances,  to  illustrate  the 
interest  of  fkmily  history  and  the  light  it  can  be 
made  to  throw  on  that  of  the  nation  at  large. 

THE 


INDEX 


OF 


ARCHiEOLOGICAL 
PAPERS 

For  1899 
18   NOW    READY. 


A  mSTOBY  of  EDUCATION.    By 

THOMAS  DikVIDSON,  Aatbor  of  *  Aristotle  and  the 
Andent  Bducatlooal  IdeaU,'  *  BouMeau  and  Bdooation 
according  tu  Nature,'  Ac.  Grown  8vo,  bi.  net. 
'  A  thoroughly  able  and  scholarly  work  by  a  writer  of  the 
first  rank.  The  range  of  knowledge  and  thought  shown  in 
his  work  is  remarkable,  and  yet  he  is  able  to  write  luddly 
and  brightly."— i/ri<uA  Wtekly, 

The  MIND  of  TENNYSON:  his 

ThoughU  on    God,  Freedom,  and    Immortality.     By 

B.  UBBSHBY  SNBATU,  Ph.D.,  Professor  of  Philosophy 

in  Yale  University.    Crown  8vo,  bt.  net. 

**  Admirably  sums  up  for  us  Tennyson's  philosophic  ideas 

and  the  creed  he  had  ultimately  arrived  at.    Since  Mr. 

Stopford    Brooke's   comprehensive    survey   of    Tennyson, 

nothing  so  excellent  has  been  written  on  the  poet's  ideas." 

ifptetator, 

CHALMERS  on  GHABITT.    A 

Selection  of  Passages  and  Scenes  to  illustrate  the  Social 
Teaching  and  Praciloal  Work  of  THOMAS  CHALMBBS, 
D.D.   Arranged  and  Bdited  by  N.  MASTBBMAN.  M.A  , 
Bighteen  Years  Member  of  the  London  Oharity  Organ- 
ization Society,  and  sometime  Quardian  in  the  Parisn  of 
Kensington.    With  a  Frontispiece.    7«.  6^  net. 
**This  is  a  very  valuable  book.    It  tells  us  in  the  first  pari 
what  Ohalmers  taught,  and  in  the  second  part  what  he  did. 
We  have  here  before  us,  disencumbered  of  Scotch  rhetoric 
and  the  preacher's  repetitions,  perhaps  the  greatest  contri- 
bution that  has  been  made  by  one  man  in  modern  times  to 
social  sdenoe."— Mr.  Bsrxabo  Bosakqubt  in  the  Londomr, 

DANTE'S    TEN     HEAVENS.      A 

study  of  the  *  Paradiso.'    By  BDMUND  Q.  GABONBB, 

M.A.    Second  Bdition,  Bevised.    DemySvo,  12«. 

**  As  a  help  to  the  minuter  study  not  of  Dante  only,  but 

of  what  has  always  been  regarded  as  the  most  obscure  part 

of  Dante's  writings,  it  is  hardly  too  much  to  say  that  no 

more  valuable  work  has  appeared  in  Bnglish."— ^tA«iurum. 

WAR  and  LABOUR.     By  Michael 

ANITOHKOW.    Demy8vo,18«. 
**  A  thoughtful  study  of  the  relation  of  war  and  labour, 
and  one  which  is  likely  to  attract  no  little  attention." 

Ob$«rver. 

A     B07AL    BHETOBICIAN 

(JAMBS  VI.  I.).    Bdited  with  introduction  and  Notes 
by  U.  S.  KAIT.  Fellow  of  New  College,  Oxford.    Fcap. 
8vo,  3>.  9d.  net. 
"  It  was  quite  worth  while  to  put  together  this  little  book 
of  selected  specimens."— <d>peaAer. 


X  WHITEHALL  GARDENS,  WBSTMIN8TBR. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9«^8.viljan.i9,i9oi. 


THE         BDINBDRGH         REVIEW. 
Mo.  385.    JANUARY,  1801.    8to.  prloe  6a. 
1.  The  CAV8RS  of  the  AMERICAN  CIVIL  WAR. 
8.  LANDSCAPE:  8YMB0UU,  IMAGINATIVE,  and  ACTUAL. 

8.  SOPHIA  DOROTHEA. 

4.  The  EARLY  HISTORY  of  FOX-HUNTINO. 

6.  RECENT  APPRECIATIONS  of  OLIVER  CROMWELL. 

6.  VELAZQUEZ. 

7.  FICTION  and  POLITICS. 

a  The  CORRESPONDENCE  of  CICERO. 

9.  MADAME  DU  DEFFAND  and  HER  FRIENDS. 
10.  The  SITUATION  In  IRELAND 

IL  OUR  SOUTH  AFRICAN  TROUBLES. 

LONGMANS,  GREEN  *  CO.  London,  New  York,  and  Bombay. 

THE    ENGLISH    HISTORICAL    REVIEW. 

X  Edited  by  S.  R.  GARDINER.  D.CL.  LL.D.,  and 

REGINALD  L.  POOLE.  M.A.  Ph.D. 
No.  01.    JANUARY,  1901.    Royal 8to,  price 8«. 

The    EARLY  HISTORY    of  BABYLONIA.     By   Sir  Henry   H. 

Howorth.  K.C.I.E.    IT.  The  Barlleit  Semites. 
CANON  LAW  lo  ENGLAND :  a  Reply  to  Dr.  MaeooU.    By  Prof. 

Maitiand,  LL.D. 
A  SPANISH  ACCOUNT  of  DRAKE'S  VOYAGES.    By  G.  Jenner. 
The  FOREIGN  POLICY  of  ENGLAND  UNDER  WALPOLB.    By 

BaaU  WUIlams.    Pan  IV. 
r  —  Nolei  and  DoeumeiU*.      8.— Rmew*  cf  Booka.     4.  —  Notitts    <tr 

Ptriodieal  FubUeationM. 

LONGMANS,  GREEN  *  CO.  London.  New  York,  and  Bombay. 


ONE    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES.      Engraved 
on  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MORING. 

Feap.  4to.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Blockt  on  Hand-made 
Paper,  bound  in  artiatie  boardt,  ISs.  Si.  net. 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Engraved  on  Copper. 

By  THOMAS  MORING. 

Uniform  with  the  aboTO.    Printed  direct  from  the  Orlffiaal  Platea 

on  Hand-made  Paper,  SS*.  net. 

THOMAS  MORING. 
Hie  De  la  More  PreM,  82,  Hiffh  Hoi  bom.  London.  W.a 


MOW  READY,  SECOND  EDITION,  REVISED  and  AUGMENTED, 
prloe  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A.  F.R.A.S. 
O.  8T0NBMAM,  80,  Warwick  Lan«,  E.O. 


MOW  READY,  BBOOND  EDITION,  REVISED  and  ENLARGED. 

THE  PENNY  CHRONOLOGY:  a  Series  of 
Important  Date*  in  the  Hittory  of  the  World  from  the  Reign  of 
DaTid  to  the  Present  Time.  Second  BdiUon.  By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B. A. 
FR.A.B. 

O.  8T0NEMAN,  88,  Warwick  Lane,  E.O. 

Mew  BditlOB,  price  Two  ShililoKS. 

riBLESTIAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    of 

VJ    Aftronomy.    Ninth  Edition     With  8  Plate*.    By  W.  T.  LYNN, 
B.A.  F.R.A.B. 

"  Has,  we  are  glmd  to  lee.  reached  a  ninth  edltloa,  which  eaabie* 
VbiM  ezeelleat  introdoetion  to  the  facM  of  mntomomj  to  be  brooffht  ar 
to  date"— Onar^ien. 

■DWARD  BTAMFOKD,  98 and  37,  Cockapar  Street.  Charlaf  OroM.  b.  W. 

STICKPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Gnm  for  itickinff  in  Scrape.  ]olninf  Papers.  *e.  9d.  and  1«.  with 
■troDf,  aeeini  Bnuh  (not  a  Toyi.  Send  two  etampe  to  co^er  poetafe 
tor  a  lample  Bottle,  laoindinir  Bnuh.  Factory,  8n«ar  Loaf  Conrt, 
Leadenhall  Street,  B.C.    Of  all  Stationers.    Stickphast  Paste  sticks. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— 80QAK— TEA 

104,  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  W.C. 


r;j.ENTLBMANLY     YOUTH     WANTED     for 

vX  SECRETARIAL  WORK.  One  deslroos  ot  obtaining  an  iaslcht 
into  the  routine  of  a  Printing  Office  preferred.— Apply,  or  send  partie*- 
lars,  to  P.,  Atheoeam  Press,  BroAm's  Balidings,  E.C. 

pULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

^^  for  Searches  and  Authentic  Information  respeetinff 

ARMORLAL   BEARINGS    AND  FAMILY    DESCENTS, 

With  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artlsttc  Prodnccioa  of 

HERALDIC  PAINTING  AND  ENGRAYINO. 

Book-plates,  Seals,  Dies,  Siffaet  Rings.  LlTery  Buttons,  Creit«d  NoM- 

Paper,  Visiting  and  InTitation  Oards.  «e. 

(tt.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Park). 

pAKDS    FOR    LIBKAKY    CATALOGUES. 

^  CARD  CABINETS  in  Polished  Oak,  4e. 

ADJUSTABLE    BOOK    SHELVING, 

PAMPHLET   and    M88.    B0XB8, 
and  many  Specialities  of  Use  in  Libraries  and  Mneeoma. 

LIBRARY    SUPPLY    CO..    Mannfhetwers, 
181,  Queen  Victoria  Street,  London,  E.C. 

BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  sup- 
plied,  no  matter  on  what  Snbjeet.  Aeknowledired  the  wofM  over 
as  the  mo«t  aspert  tfoonanders  estaat.  Please  •t«te  Tints  iMiynilTI 
Great  Hook^hop,  14-16,  John  Bright  Street.  Birmingham. 

FIKSr  EDITIONS  Of  MODERN  AUTHORS. 
including  Dickens.  Thackeray.  LoTcr.  Ainsworth;  Books  illne-  ' 
trated  by  G.  and  R.  Cruikshank,  Phis,  Rowlandsoa.  Leech,  *e.  The 
largest  and  cholceet  Collection  offered  for  Hale  in  the  World.  Ca»> 
log nes  issued  and  sent  po«t  free  on  appUcaaon.  Books  bosurhs.— 
WJLLTRB,  T.  SPENCER,  27,  New  OzfonTStreet.  London,  W.a 


prepared 
aadPEi 


THENiEUM     PRESS.— JOHN     EDWARD 

FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  Athmmmm,  NMm  mmd  Qhstms.  *e..  la 
«d  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  aU  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEWS. 
PERIODICAL  PRINTING.— 13,  Bream's  Bnildinga.  OhMoaiT 
EC.  ' 


THE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAFER-PAD. 
(The  LEADENHALL  PRESS.  Ltd.,  Publishers  and  Prtateis. 
M,  LaadenhaU  Street.  London.  Ji.0.  i 
Contains  hairisse  paper,  over  which   the    pen  sUps  with    aMrffeet 
freedom.    Sizpeaee  each.    it.  vr  dosea.  ralee  er  plala.    F      ^    ' 
Siae,  8s.  per  dosea,  ruled  or  plain. 

Autbors  should  note  that  The  Lsadeahall  Prase,  Ltd.. 
rasponalMe  tor  the  loss  of  M88.  oy  Are  or  otherwiae.    Dupllei 
should  b«  retained 

SCHWEPPES  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  Intemattonal 
Exhibitloa,  Paris,  1600. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppes^oda. 

THESE  WATERb  (Soda,  Seltser,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Touic-Water,  OiDger  fieer.  Dry  Oiiurer 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  foroveraceutuij. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continue  to  be  supplied  to  the  Qaeen. 

/  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER  >-.  ^ 
^SCHWEPPES  SPARKLINO  MALVERN, ( 
I  In  SPLITb,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  j 

ScHWBPPES,  LTD.,  LOWDOH,  MaLVBRN. 

OLAMOW,  UTBBFOOJU.  BRISTOL*  STIlNaT,  Mi  KlLBOinm 


» a  vn.  jAif.  19, 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


41 


LONDON,  SATVBDAY,  JANUARY  19,  1901, 


CONTENTS. -No.  160. 

VOTB8 1— Vifloountciefl  without  Barony,  41— Wordsworth- 
lana,  43— *N.  k  Q.' :  Oorreotiont  in  Indexes,  43-**  Wlao  " 
— 01oTe>  At  the  Bucharist  —  FomiAtton  of  Burnames  — 
Qlpey  Weddlng-Boglish  Orayettonea,  Miaoroa— **  Right 
here'*'— New  SenM  of  **  Garland,"  46— B.  Pocooke,  1704-65 
— Unimbllthed  Venes  hw  Jonaon— Chrayestone  at  Waltham 
Abbey  —  MiraculouB  Bolt  —  Burns'i  'Tarn  Glen,'  4tf  — 
Nottingham  and  Notta  — Lighta  and  Buried  Treasure— 
Byil  Bye,  47. 

QUBRIBS :  —  ** Anoe  Mariole"— Leghorn— ** Glen"  and 
**  Olene  "— Greatorex  —  Grant  —  Book  for  Children,  47— 
••  In  the  John  Trott  way  "— Ohayaaee  Family—*  *  Hooligan  " 
— Searchen  of  Leathei^-J.  8.  Kipling:- J.  M.  W.  Turner- 
Broom  of  Poole— Paschal  Moons  — Beardshaw—** Bijou*' 
as  Christian  Name,  48  — Steere— **Lyngeir'— 'Colburu's 
New  Monthly  Magazine'  — A.  Wharton  —  Ulrickstadt— 

Suaint  Custom— Vulgar  Use  of  **  Bight  "—F.  Woollery— 
dward.  Prince  of  Wales,  1453-71.  49. 

BBPLIBS  :-Ipplepen,  60— Simon  Fraser—Fanfulla— Litur- 
gical Language  of  the  Greek  Church— Count  Peoohio— 
"  Butty,"  61— ••  To  palmer  "—Duke  of  Bolton's  Regiment 
—Pall-mall  and  Golf,  63— Daisy  Names— Ten  Command- 
ments In  Rime— **Frabbed*'— *  Paddle  your  own  Canoe,' 
63— Raonton  Family— Worcestershire  Folk-lore— William 
Morris  as  Business  Man— Dutton  Family,  64— Margaret 
of  Bavaria- -Trunk"  or  *•  Box "  — Waller -•* Gone  to 
Jericho,"  66— John  Pearson,  66  — Language  to  conceal 
Thought*  67— Orisln  of  Current  Phrases— Coat  of  Arms— 
Lyme  Bejgis— Auuior  of  Verses,  68. 

NOTBS  ON  BOOKS :-Napler's  *01d  Bnglish  Glosses*- 
Plomer's  *  History  of  BngUsh  PrinUng'— **Chitwick 
Shakespeare  "  —  *  Dr.  Johnson's  Table  -  TwXk '  —  *  Clergy 
Directory  and  Parish  Guide'— *Celtia*—*  Folk-lore.' 

Mr.  Copley  Christie— Rev.  W.  R.  Tate. 

Notices  to  Correspondents. 


VISCOUNTCIES     OP     ENGLAND,     GREAT 

BRITAIN,   OR   THE   UNITED    KINGDOM, 

UNACCOMPANIED  BY  ANY  BARONY. 

Thb  recent  creation  (December,  1900)  of 

two  visconntcies  (Qoschen  and  KidleyX  one 

wiihoiU  and  the  other  vfith  a  barony  attached 

thereto,  seems  to  call  for  some  remarks  as  to 

what  has  been  the  (general  practice  in  regard 

to  the  creation  of  viscountcies. 

From  the  institution  of  this  dignity  in 
1440  down  to  the  accession  of  James  I.  (1603) 
sixteen  English  viscountcies  were  created,  all 
but  the  last  two  having  been  conferred 
either  on  a  haron^  or  on  the  husband  of  a 
mo  jure  baroness^  though  in  some  cases  (as  in 
the  existing  viscountcy  of  Hereford)  the 
barony  held  by  the  grantee  has  not  followed 
the  devolution  of  the  viscountcy.  These 
sixteen  creations  were  Beaumont^  1440; 
Boarchier,  1445:  Lisle  (Talboti  1451; 
Berkeley,  1481 ;  Lovell,  1482 ;  Lisle  (QreyX 
1483 ;  Welles,  1487 ;  Lisle  (Brandon),  1513 ; 
Lisle  (PlantagenetX  1523 :  Rochford  (BoleynX 
15S5;  Fitzwalter  (RadclyfifeX  1^35:  Beau- 
champ  (SesrmourX  1536;  Lisle  (Dudley), 
154S;  Hereford  (DevereuxX  1550;  Montagu 
(BrownejL  1553;  and  Howard  of  Bindon 
(Howaroji  1650.    With  respect  to  Montagu, 


the  grantee's  grandmother,  Lady  Lucy 
Nevill  (of  whom,  however,  he  was  not  the 
representative),  was  a  coheir  of  the  barony 
of  that  name  ;  while  with  respect  to  Howard 
of  Bindon  (which  seems  the  most  anomalous) 
the  grantee  held  higher  rank  than  that  of  a 
baron,  being  the  younger  son  of  a  duke. 

It  was  not  till  the  reign  of  James  I.  that, 
save  as  above  stated,  anv  commoner  was 
raised  to  a  viscountcy  of  England.  Even 
then  the  viscountcies  thus  conferred  were 
always  accompanied  by  a  barony^  save  in 
three  cases  to  female  grantees— viz.,  Maid- 
stone in  1627 ;  Bayning,  a  life  peerage,  in 
1674 ;  and  Oorbet,  also  a  life  peerage,  in  1679. 
The  nrst  persons  under  the  degree  ot  a  baron 
whom  James  I.  created  viscounts  of  England 
were  the  notorious  favourites  Robert  C!arr, 
created  in  1612  Viscount  Rochester :  Gfeorge 
Villiers,  created  in  1616  Viscount  Villiors ; 
and  Jonn  Villiers,  created  in  1619  Viscount 
Purbeck.  This  sort  of  creation  continued 
more  than  100  years— viz.,  till  the  accession 
of  George  III.  (1760),  save  only  that  the 
viscountcy  of  Leinster.  conferred  in  1747  on 
the  Irish  Earl  of  Kilclare  (who  was  not  a 
baron  of  England  or  Great  Britain),  was 
itnaccompanied  by  any  barony. 

During  the  forty  years  that  elapsed  from 
the  accession  of  George  III.  to  the  end  of  the 
eighteenth  century  (1760-1800),  among  the 
numerous  viscountcies  of  Great  Britain  con- 
ferred on  commoners  the  following  six  were 
granted  without  any  barony  attached  to 
them— viz.,  the  viscountcy  of  Gourtenay. 
1762:  that  of  Pitt  (with  the  earldom  of 
Ghatnam),  1766,  the  grantee's  wife  being  a 
8110  jure  baroness ;  that  of  Howe,  1782,  the 
grantee  being  Viscount  Howe  in  Ireland ; 
that  of  Keppel,  also  in  1782,  the  grantee 
being  son  of  an  earl ;  that  of  Hamilton,  1786, 
the  grantee  being  Earl  of  Abercorn  in  Scot- 
land ;  and  that  of  Hood,  1796,  the  grantee's 
wife  boin^  a  suo  jure  baroness  and  he 
himself  being  an  Irish  baron. 

In  1805,  however,  the  practice  of  conferring 
on  a  commoner  a  viscountcy  of  the  United 
Kingdom,  without  any  barony  attached  to  it, 
may  be  said  to  have  nad  its  real  beginning, 
when  in  that  year  the  Right  Hon.  Henry 
Addington  was  thus  created  Viscount  Sia- 
mouth.  A  summary  of  the  twenty-nine  vis- 
countcies (excluding  Scotch  and  Irish)  which 
at  present  (January,  1901)  exist  as  the  prin- 
cipal or  only  title  shows  that  eleven  of  them 
were  created  without  any  barony  annexed, 
inasmuch  as  the  grantees  themselves  were 
already  barons,  though  in  two  cases  (Here- 
ford and  St.  Vincent)  the  bai*ony  thus  held 
is  not  now  vested  in  the  existing  viscount* 


42 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     »*  s.  vil  Jan.  19,  iwl 


These  are  Hereford,  1550:  St.  Vincent, 
1801 ;  Exmouth,  1816  ;  Combermere,  1827  ; 
Hill,  1842;  Gough,  1849;  Portman,  1873; 
Wolseley,  1885;  Knutsford,  1895;  Esher. 
1897;  and  Cromer,  1899.  Seven  other  ot 
these  viscountcies  were  conferred  ttntJi  a 
barony  annexed— viz..  Bolinsbroke,  1712  (to 
which  may  be  added  St.  John,  1716,  now 
united  therewith);  Cobham,  1718 (the grantee 
in  this  case  being  himself  also  a  baron) ; 
Falmouth,  1720;  Torrington,  1721  :  Melville, 
1802;  Canterbury,  1835;  and  Ridley,  1900. 
Thus  all  the  grantees  of  the  above-named 
eighteen  viscountcies  either  possessed  or 
received  baronies.  As  to  the  remaining 
eleven  viscountcies,  they  were  conferred 
vnthout  any  barony  annexed,  though  granted 
to  a  person  who  did  not  posuscss  one ;  but  in 
two  cases  (Hood  and  Hampden)  a  barony  has 
subsequently  devolved  on  the  holder  of  the 
viscountcy.  These  are  Hood,  1796,  as  to 
which  creation  see  above ;  Sidmouth,  1805  ; 
Hardinge,  1846;  Halifax,  1866,;  Bridport, 
1868,  the  grantee  being  an  Irish  baron ; 
Hampden,  1884;  Cross,  1886;  Hambleden, 
1891:  Peel,  1895;  Llandaff,  1895;  and 
Goschen,  1900. 

There  are  also  four  existing  viscountcies 
(all  without  any  barony  annexed)  which 
appear  in  the  roll  of  tne  House  of  Lords 
(1900),  and  which  were  conferred  on  Scotch 
or  Irish  earls,  being  the  titles  under  which 
their  now  holders  sit  in  that  house.  These 
are  Leinster,  1747,  as  above  stated  ;  Gordon, 
1814;  Hutchinson,  1821;  and  (Jiancarty, 
1823,  the  respective  grantees  being  the  Earl 
of  Kildare,  afterwarats  (1766)  Duke  of  Lein- 
ster in  Ireland;  the  Earl  of  Aberdeen  in 
Scotland,  the  Earl  of  Donoughmore  in  Ire- 
land, and  the  Earl  of  Clancarty  in  Ireland. 
G.  E.  C. 

WORDSWORTHIANA. 
Ths  late  Walter  Pater  in  his  fine  apprecia- 
tion of  Wordsworth  (first  published  in  1889) 
wrote :  "  Of  all  poets  equally  great  *  he 
[Wordsworth]  would  gain  most  by  a  skilfully 
made  anthology.''  There  the  critic  only 
stated  a  i^ct  which  must  have  appeared 
obvious  to  all  who  have  ever  struggled  through 
Wordsworth  in  the  mass.  In  the  second  edi- 
tion (1890)  of '  Appreciations '  a  foot-note  tells 
OS  that  two  men  eminently  qualified  for  the 
task,  Matthew  Arnold  and  Prof.  Knieht,  had 
each  edited  a  selection  from  Wordsworth, 
perhaps  (I  know  not)  taking  the  hint  from 
Pater.  Mr.  Pater's  appreciation  is  dated 
1874.  In  1885  there  appeared  in  Mr.  Walter 
Scott's  "Canterbury'^  series  a  little  book 
of   selections   from   Wordsworth,   with   an 


introduction  by  Mr.  Symington,  which  intro- 
duction and  selections  have  been  deservedly 
praised.  Here,  then,  we  have  three  Words- 
worth anthologies,  of  which  we  may  call 
Arnold's  the  "  official "  one — it  has  been  used 
as  a  text-book  by  the  Royal  University  of 
Ireland.  I  am  not  quite  certain,  but  I  think 
another  book  of  selections  has  since  appeared. 
The  honour,  however,  of  having  been  the 
first  culler  in  the  garden  of  Wordsworth,  or 
at  least  the  first  to  put  his  name  to  a  Words- 
worth anthology,  was  J.  Hine — a  man  of 
whom  I  know  nothing  save  what  he  tells  of 
himself  in  the  preface  of  his  book,  an  octavo 
of  326  pages  published  ("  a  new  edition  ")  by 
Moxon,  1834.  The  book  is  entitled  'Selec- 
tions I  from  the  Poems  |  of  |  William  Words- 
worth, Esq.'  This  book  must  have  been 
common  enough :  it  was  "  designed  chieflv 
for  the  use  of  schools  and  young  persons  : 
which  fact  would  surely  not  have  seemed 
sufficient  reason  to  Mr.  Pater  for  overlooking 
it,  had  he  been  aware  of  such  a  work.  In 
any  case,  Mr.  Hine's  book  must  have  exercised 
a  very  wide  influence  at  a  time  when,  to  say 
the  least  of  it,  Wordsworth's  genius  was  not 
widely  recognized.  This  selection  contains 
all  my  favourites,  in  addition  to  book  i.  of  the 
'  Excursion '  and  long  extracts  from  books  iv., 
vi.,  and  vii.  That  the  little  work  is  worth 
all  the  space  which  I  am  here  devoting  to  it 
lovers  of  Wordsworth  will  admit  when  I 
say  that  it  is  quite  probable  we  have  here 
an  anthologv  made  in  great  part  by  the 
poet  himself,  or  at  least  one  which  was 
almost  certainly  submitted  to  him  before 
publication.  Mr.  Hine  mentions  "  an  oppor- 
tunity of  communicating  with  the  poet";  and 
Wordsworth's  own  assuredness  in  speaking  of 
his  work  may  (such  is  my  opinion)  be  detected 
in  the  preface  :  "  Mr.  Words  worth's  poetry  is 
Philosophy  set  to  Music."  Hear  this,  again  : 
*' As  soldiers  are  trained  to  the  most  stately 
motions  to  the  sound  of  music,  so  does  the 
poet  put  into  like  stately  motion  his  bat- 
talions ;  hence  a  poem  and  an  army  are  objects 
that  captivate  all  beholders/'  The  italics  are 
mineu  and,  if  that  phrase  be  not  by  Words- 
worth, it  is  surely  not  unworthy  of  him. 
Again  :  "[Who]  sympathises  with  all  parts  of 
Clod's  creation  so  deeply,  widely,  and  highly, 
as  he  ? "   Let  me  quote  one  longer  passage : — 

"The  people  of  the  present  a^  seem  to  be  in 
danger  of  living  too  fast ;  we  had  whipped  our 
horses  into  a  maxim  am  velocity  years  ago,  and  were 
in  danger  of  coming  to  a  stand-still  for  want  of  fur- 
ther impulse,  when  our  steam  vessels  and  carriages 
set  us  all  afloat  and  in  motion ;  and  who  shall  say 
when  and  where  we  are  to  stop  ?  But  of  what  use 
are  or  will  be  all  these  advantages  in  art  or  science  ? 
Are  men  better?  are  men  wiser?  are  they  happier 


'  8.  viL  jak.  19.  Moi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


43 


If  the  answer  be  yes,  I  deny  it.    If  I  am  asked  to 
be  patient,  as  we  are  only  beginning,  I  will  be 

Ctient  and  hope  in  future  for  what  has  not  yet 
BO  attained.  I  speak  of  the  community.  Cer- 
tainly our  inventions  have  hitherto  been  misunder- 
stooa  or  misapplied.  If  all  the  improvements  in 
seienoe  had  lessened  human  toil  but  one  hour  in  the 
day,  it  would  be  something ;  instead  of  this,  human 
t<m  has  been  prolonged;  and  allowing  all  the 
adrantagee  possible,  we  roust  take  care  that  our 
rekwities,  our  momenta,  our  rail-ways,  and 
inclined  planes,  do  not  scare  away  the  muses  and 
the  graoee.  Although  the  early  and  middle  part  of 
life  delight  in  a  little  bustle  and  noise,  the  latter 
part  demands  rest,  tranquillity,  and  comfort ;  for 
which  purposes  the  cultivation  of  poetry  will  come 
in  for  the  greatest  consideration  :  nature  will  have 
her  course.  It  is  time  that  the  heads  of  our  states- 
men were  occupied  with  this  question ;  the  bulk  of 
the  community  are  ready  to  take  it  up:  let  not 
philosophers  and  the  learned  be  backward  in  its 
examination." 

[s  not  this  reminiscent  of   Ruskin  in  one 
li  his  moods,  or  of  Arnold  on  Wordsworth  ?— 

He  ffrew  old  in  an  age  he  condemned. 
He  looked  on  the  rushing  decay 
Of  the  times  which  had  sheltered  his  youth. 
Felt  the  dissolving  throes 
Of  a  social  order  he  loved. 
Outlived  his  brethren,  his  peers, 
And,  like  the  Theban  seer. 
Died  in  his  enemies'  day. 
Dr, 

What  shelter  to  grow  ripe  is  ours? 
What  leisure  to  grow  wise  ? 

It  is  quite  pK>ssible  that  Matthew  Arnold 
mew  of  this  little  book  when  he  made  his 
lelections.  To  conclude,  and  to  illustrate 
low  little  Wordsworth  was  appreciated  about 
hia  time,  may  I  ask  if  you  nave  ever  heard 
>f  *  Wordsworth's  Horse*?  Here  it  follows, 
f  you  can  find  a  little  space  for  it  bo  canter 
D.  It  was  the  work  of  a  Dublin  physician, 
noe  Gong  ago)  a  contributor  to  *  N.  A  Q.' 

Wordsworth's  Horsk. 
Will  Wordsworth  was  a  steady  man, 

That  lived  near  Ambleside, 
And  much  he  longed  to  have  a  horse, 

Which  he  might  easy  ride. 

It  chanced  one  day  a  horse  came  by, 

Of  pure  Arabian  breed. 
Gentle  though  proud,  and  strong  of  limb : 

It  was  a  gallant  steed ! 

Full  manv  a  noble  rider  bold 

This  gallant  steed  had  borne ; 
And  every  one  upon  his  brow 

The  laurel  wreath  had  worn. 

Those  noble  riders  dead  and  gone. 

And  in  the  cold  earth  laid. 
The  pliant  steed  by  Wordsworth's  door 

Without  an  owner  strayed. 

No  more  ado;  the  steed  is  caught ; 

Upon  him  Wordsworth  gets ; 
The  generous  courser  paws  and  ream, 

Ana  'gainst  the  bridle  frets. 


"  He 's  too  high-mettled,"  Wordsworth  says, 

**  And  shakes  me  in  my  seat : 
He  must  be  balled,  and  drenched,  and  bled. 

And  get  much  less  to  eat." 

So  balled,  and  drenched,  and  bled  he  was. 

And  put  on  lower  diet ; 
And  Wordsworth  with  delight  observed 

Him  grow  each  day  more  quiet. 

And  first  he  took  from  him  his  oats. 

And  then  he  took  his  hay ; 
Until  at  last  he  fed  bim  on 

A  single  straw  a  day. 

What  happened  next  to  this  poor  steed 

There 's  not  a  child  but  knows ; 
Death  closed  his  eyes,  as  I  my  song, 

And  ended  all  his  woes. 

And  on  a  stone,  near  Rydsl  Mount, 

These  words  are  plain  to  see,— 
**  Here  lie  the  bones  of  that  famed  steed. 

High-mettled  Poesy."  (1840.) 

Thomas  Auld. 


'NOTES  AND  QUERIES':  CJORRECTIONS 
IN  GENERAL  INDEXES. 

The  foUowins  list  of  errors  and  omissions 
in  the  QeneraT  Indexes  may  be  of  use  to 
other  readers,  and  spare  them  some  waste  of 
time  :— 

First  Series. 

P.  11  b.  Bartholomew,  St.,  the  Less,  for 
iv.  read  vi. 

P.  58  b.  Funeral  Customs,  add  ii.  259. 

P.  Q2  a.  Insert :  Gote,  see  Sculcoates. 

P.  62  b.  Gray's  'Elegy,'  omit  ii.  347,  and 
insert :  passage  in,  i.  150 ;  ii.  347. 

P.  88  D.  Monmouth,  capture,  for  328  read 
358,  and  omit  324. 

P.  106  a.  Amicus  Plato,  add  484. 

P.  108  a.  Vox  et  prseterea  nihil,  add  419. 

P.  110  a.  Cum  grano  salis,  for  66  read  88. 

P.  115  a.  Roccna  de  Camponis,  read  Cam- 
panis. 

P.  119  b.  Sculcoates  Gate,  read  Gote. 

P.  133  b.  Tennyson,  'In  Memoriam,'  for  277 
read  227. 

P.  134  a.  Thompsons  of  Yorkshire,  for  ix. 
read  x. 

P.  140  b.  Water  cure,  see  Hydropathy. 

P.  142  a.  Whichcote,  for  482  read  488. 

Second  Series. 

P.  8  b.  Whole  Dutjr  of  Man,  see  Packington. 

P.  35  b.  Centenarianism,  see  Longevity ; 
add  ix.  438. 

P.  66  b.  Gipsies,  funeral,  for  124  read  442. 

P.  74  b.  Hensley,  read  Wensley. 

P.  89  a.  Liddle,  read  Liddell. 

P.  91  a.  Longevity,  see  Centenarianism ; 
for  X.  376  read  x.  377. 

P.  105  b.  Insert :  Number  666,  see  Beast. 


44 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [^  s.  vii.  jak.  19.  iwi. 


p.  118  b.  The  references  under 'Roast 'and 
'Rule '  should  be  together. 
P.  148  a.  Terence,  *  Adrian/  read  *  Andria.' 
P.  155  a.  Insert :  Wensley,  see  Hensley. 

Third  Series. 

P.  1.  Under  'Classified  Articles'  add 
Tavern  Signs. 

P.  8  b.  Whole  Duty  of  Man,  see  Packing- 
ton. 

P.  14  a.  Insert :  Beans,  see  Ballot. 

P.  37  a,  b.  Church  with  thatched  roof,  refer- 
ences should  be  together. 

P.  47  b.  For  Dienlacres  read  Dieulacres. 

P.  61  a.  Fracastorius,  'Syphilus,'  read 
•Syphilis.' 

r.  62  b.  Funerals,  offerings,  «ee  Burial. 

P.  65  b.  Insert :  Goethe,  see  Gothe. 

P.  76  a.  Hunt  of  Cottingbourae,  read  Col- 
lingboume. 

P.  76  b.  I^nez  de  Castro,  "hia  works,"  read  : 
works  relating  to  her.  Cross-references  might 
be  made  under  Inez  and  De  Castro. 

P.  77  a.  Inkborough,  *.«.,  Inkberrow. 

P.  84  a.  Larboard,  add  ix.  254,  437,  501. 

P.  87  b.  Longevity,  ii.  319,  read  318. 

P.  96  a.  Monumental  Inscriptions,  481,  read 
408. 

P.  99  a.  Nicsean  barks,  omit  99. 

P.  101  b.  Orbis  Sensualium  Victus,  read 
Pictus. 

P.  103  a.  Pair,  meaning  set,  add  xi.  45,  46, 
124,  207,  327,  466. 

P.  109  b.  Portraits  of  criminals,  add  x.  450. 

P.  112  b.  Never  a  barrel,  add  ix.  258.  Omit 
xii.  44. 

P.  116b.  Insert:  One  half  his  prayer,  x. 
416. 

P.  117  a.  Studious  of  ease,  add  x.  39. 
„         The  floor  of  sand,  add  99. 
„  The  lucky,  add  iii.  48. 

P.  132  b.  Simile  ;  *^  tapestry  "  and  "  trans- 
lations "  are  the  same. 

P.  133  b.  Smith  of  Snenton,  for  327  read 
112. 

P.  134  b.  By  the  side,  add  299. 

P.  137  b.  Stangate  Hole,  for  521  read  529. 

P.  144  b.  Translations  and  tapestry,  add 
ix.  120,  145. 

P.  148  a.  Insert :  Voiture,  v.  425. 

P.  154  b.  Wroxeter  dinders,  add  427. 

Fourth  Series. 

P.  1.  Classified  Articles,  add  Tavern  Signs, 
Tennysoniana. 

P.  28  b.  Bores = boars,  for  503  read  523. 

P.  51  a.  Dilligront,  reiad  Dilligrout. 

P.  75  b.  Hebrews  ix.,  for  261  read  269. 

P.  84  a.  Johnson,  Dr.  Samuel,  bull  of  his, 
for  311  read  301, 


P.  92  b.  Longevity,  after  ix.  insert  36  ;  and 
for  ix.  130  read  131 ;  and  see  Parr. 

P.  98  a.  Mazes,  for  38  read  34. 

P.  104  a.  Nan&n,  for  Birtz  Martin  read 
Birts  Morton. 

P.  108  a.  The    words   from    *  Orkney  '    to 

*  Orleton '  should  be  inserted  after  *  Onssa.' 

P.  143  a.  "Mrs."  Smith  (poker)  is  an  error  ; 
the  entries  should  be  placed  together  under 

*  Smith,  Mr.,'  in  the  line  above. 

P.  149  a.  Stalling  of  "  Yatton-com-Somer- 
set,"  i.e.,  in  the  county  of  Somerset. 

Fifth  Series. 

P.  1.  Classified  articles,  add  Bells,  Medals, 
Mottoes,  Tavern  Signs,  Tennyson. 

P.  12  a.  Insert :  Auld-wife  nake,  see  Haka 

P.  25  a.  Insert :  Hart's  Index,  see  Index 
Expurg.  Angl. 

P.  60  b.  Fisher,  Bp.,  censure  "  of,"  read  by. 

P.  71  a.  Insert :  Hake,  Auld-wife,  L  468 ;  iL 
154. 

P.  96  a.  Monfeti,  read  Moufeti. 

P.  97  b.  Insert :  Moufeti. 

P.  109  b.  Insert :  Priests'  Hiding-Places,  see 
Secret  Rooms. 

P.  129  a.  Sandloft,  read  Sandtoft. 

P.  139  b.  Songs  :  insert  *  The  Lark,'  ii.  348, 
376. 

Sixth  Series. 

P.  1.  Classified  Articles,  add  libraries, 
London. 

P.  104  a.  Insert :  Priests'  Hiding-Places,  see 
Secret  Chambers. 

P.  123  b.  Secret  Chambers,  for  ix.  read  x. 

P.  124  a.  Insert :  Seventh  Son,  see  Lanca- 
shire Custom. 

Seventh  Series. 

P.  13  a.  Bible :  insert  Hebrews  (ix.  27X 
X.6. 

P.  37  a.  Centenarianism,  see  Longevity. 

P.  63  a.  Games,  see  Sally  Waters. 

P.  89  a.  Matriculation,  add  ix.  388,  516. 

P.  97  b.  The  items  under  '  Oxford '  need 
better  classification. 

P.  98  a.  Insert :  Papey,  see  St.  Augustine. 

P.  122  a.  Insert :  Sarah  Waters,  see  Sally. 

P.  143  a.  Insert :  Waters,  see  Sally. 

Eighth  Series. 

P.  1.  Classified  Articles,  add  Nursery 
Rhymes,  Tennyson. 

P.  44  b.  Insert :  Daily,  see  Service, 

P.  89  a.  Insert :  Morris,  see  Nine. 

P.  110  a.  Rainfall,  see  Shower. 

P.  122  a.  Shower,  see  Rainfall. 

The  lists  of  Classified  Articles  might  be 
extended. 

The  form  Gothe,  under  which  the  name 
Goethe  is  entered  in  most  of  the  ^arly  in- 


9»8.viljan.i9.i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


45 


dexeSt  ia  unusual  in   English    books.     The 
■ame  may  be  said  of  Boh  ma  W.  C.  B. 


"  Wi»a"— Under  the  heAdin^  '  Huish  *  (9^^ 
S.  Ti.  492)  we  are  informed  that  "if  we  cut 
off  [from  the  A,-S.  klwtsc]  the  *  family '  prefix, 
WB  hav^  A,-S.  wise  or  itn/itc,  a  piece  of  land." 

We  may  reasonably  object  to  thh  arbi- 
trary method  of  manufacturing  Anglo-Saxon 
ghost' words,  particularly  when  they  do  not 
even  possess  the  poor  merit  of  being  cor- 
rectly formed.  If  we  cut  off  from  hlw-tsc  the 
prefix  ^itf,  denoting  "family."  as  seen  in 
klw-Mcipe  and  other  compounds,  the  result 
is  -tie,  the  common  modern  English  -ink 
There  is  no  such  word  as  A.-S.  tmse  or  tm/$c, 
and  consequently  it  cannot  mean  "  a  piece  of 
land."  Then  we  are  told  to  "compare  the 
L.G,  mi$che^  which  will  by  no  means 
improve  matters  ;  for,  as  pointed  out  by 
Eluge,  i.v*  ^Wiese,'  this  represents  an  older 
form  wU-ha^  diminutive  of  wu-.  The  i  was 
ori|rinally  long  ;  and  the  i  in  -ise  was  always 
abort 

The  invention  of  bogus  forms  is  easy 
etiough,  but  no  wise  man  will  regard  them  ; 
neither  does  the  pro<jess  inspire  respect, 

Walter  W.  Seeat. 

Qw(Tm  WORK  m  gelebbatiko  the 
EucHARis^T. — This  curious  custom  is  men- 
tioned by  Daniel  Rogers  (1573-1652)  in  his 
'Treatise  of  the  Two  Sacrament^*  seoond 
editioD,  1835,  p,  tie  :— 

*'For  90  they  we^re  white  jjlovea  when  they 
nacddle  with  the  Elementfl,  and  touch  them  not 
witli  their  bare  bands,  pretending  more  reverence 
to  be  in  a  beasU  skin,  thun  a  mans  naked  ha.nct ; 
•o  some  thinke  it  too  homely  perhaps  to  breake  the 
bread  with  their  handfl,  in  eoin][iarisan  of  cutting  it 
with  a  knife.*' 

RrcnAED  H.  Tbokkton, 

FortUod,  Orfifon, 

FoRMATloK  0?  SuENiMEa.— A  cuHous  in- 
stance illustrating  their  origin  from  local 
names  has  come  under  my  notice.  At  a  large 
mill  near  here  the  watchman  is  generally 
known — not  only  to  his  mat^s^  but  to  others— 
as  Harry  Pool.  Hia  real  name  is  Harry  Old- 
fidd,  but  be  is  a  native  of  Poole,  near  Otley. 
LioKEL  Cress  WELL. 

Wood  Hall,  Calverky. 

A  Gipsy  Wedding,— I  cut  the  following 
from  the  Bptffmrth  Bdh  of  17  Nov,,  1900, 
Growle  ia  a  small  market  town  about  six 
nulea  from  this  place : — 

"An  eitrftorditiftty  marriaf^  t8  reported   from 


"AH  eiirftornmary  mamaf^  »  reported   f 
&inrle  on  the  old ^ fash ioned  Romany  lines.     It  ap- 
art tkat  two  T»cr^ona.  anxioua  t/i  be  jniiifid  together 
rlif%  oaiiied  reapectively  Wiliiam  Wombwell  and 


pwnt 

difc 


Catherine  Haley j  who  objected  to  pay  marria^ 
fees,  reeorled  to  the  gipay  custJ-jm  of  jumping  over 
the  broomatick.  The  uewa  of  their  intention  soon 
became  known,  tkn^  a  good  company  a^embled  to 
witneRs  the  ceremony.  Catherine,  who  aeemed  to 
have  the  matter  in  hand,  issued  all  inatructiona, 
and  appointed  a '  handler  of  the  broom.'  At  a  ffiven 
sifjnar,  WiUiflm  and  Catherine,  with  hands  Jirmly 
claajr>ed,  took  a  run  jiimp,  and  the  deed  was  done. 
The  bridegroom  ie  over  seventy  yean  of  age,  but 
hale  and  hearty." 

C.  C.  B, 
Epworth, 

English  Gravestones,  Minorca.— The  fol- 
lowing passage  occurs  in  M*  Gaaton  Vuillier's 

*  Forgotten  Isle<  translated  by  Frerlenc 
Breton  (1696).  I  send  it  to  you  in  the  hop© 
that  some  Englishman  who  visits  Port  Mahon 
may  be  induced  by  it  to  endeavour  to  secure 
copieH  of  theae  insert  pt ions  to  the  memory  of 
long-dead  Englishmen  :— 

"  Pasiing  along  the  street*,  1  was  often  atruck 
by  the  coloiir  and  strange  shape  of  some  of  the 
paving-Btone«  used  for  repairioK  piirnoees.  They 
were  mueb  larger  and  darker  than  t-he  othera.  I 
(lueationed  the  ^kaaaers-by  without  elicit jnc  any  in- 
formation \  and  It  waa  not  until  after  I  had  left  the 
ialand  that  I  learned  that  these  stones?,  which,  it 
appeared,  had  vexed  the  soul*  of  several  geologists, 
were  obtained  from  the  de«erted  English  cemeteriea 
in  the  auburbH  of  the  town,  A  friend  of  mine  had 
the  curiosity  to  turn  flome  of  thetii  over,  and  there, 
«till  pldn  to  be  seen,  were  the  EngUeh  inacdptionB, 
The  Mahoueae  had  had  at  least  the  grace  to  turn 
the  faces  downwards.  Many  of  the  memorial  tableta 
were  sent  out  from  England  during  the  British 
oceu|Mition  by  the  families  of  those  who  died  on  tbo 
island.  No  one  walking  through  the  bright  cheerful 
thorougbfarca  would  have  itnagined  that  be  waa 
treading  on  tombitonefl,"— P.  89. 

ABTAItTE. 

**  Right  here."— The  above  should  be  an 
'*  Americanism,"  if  there  be  one ;  but  it  U 
common  in  the  old  metrical  romances — €,g,^  in 

*  Kyng  Aliaaunder/  L  4131  {■ — 

Knyghtis  nymeth  kopo 
To  Bulaifall  my  deatrere ; 
And  abide Ih  me  ryght  here. 

H.  R  L, 

A  New  Sense  of  "  GAitLitND."  (Bee  9*^  8. 
vi.  245,  337.)— Will  you  allow  me  to  supple^ 
ment  my  former  note  with  another  instance 
of  this  une  of  *' garland"  at  Birchiogton,  in 
the  Isle  of  Thanet,  from  the  *  Visitations  of 
the  Archfieacoo  of  Canterbury  *  in  the  Cathe- 
dral Library  at  Canterbury  ]~ 

"  Birch  in  gton,  162S.— %Tohn  Crampe  for  that  ha 
(to  the  profanation  of  the  tsabbath  and  evi|  example 
of  otherB,  he  being  a  sworn  officer)  did  on  Eaater  day 
last  paat  teen  or  mend  hedges  or  an  heflgc.  And 
likewise  for  that  he  on  the  Hunday  next  after  Whit- 
sunday, not  only  absented  himself  from  divine  ser- 
vice in  hi  a  pariah  church  both  forenoon  and  afternoon, 
but  also  (which  was  worse)  misafjent  and  profaned 
the  fiarae  ijftbbath  day  by  being  with  hie  son  and 


46 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     (9»8.vilja».i9.i»i. 


daughter  dancing  at  a  garland  at  the  house  of 
George  Bennett  in  the  afternoon  of  the  Sunday 
aforesaid  with  much  other  company." 

Arthur  Hussey. 
Tankerton-on-Sea,  Kent. 

Richard  Pococke,  1704-65.— The  *Dict. 
Nat.  Biog./  vol.  xlvi.  p.  12,  states  that  this 
traveller 

"was  the  son  of  Richard  Pococke,  LL.B.,  rector 
of  Colmer,  Hampshire,  and  afterwards  head  master 
of  the  King  Edward  VI.  Free  Grammar  School, 
and  curate,  under  sequestration,  of  All  Saints' 
Church  in  Southampton." 

This  statement  is  not  quite  correct.  The 
traveller's  father,    Richard    Pococke,    LL.B. 

(b.  1666,  d.  1710),  was  never  rector  of  Colmer  : 
)ut  the  traveller's  grandfather,  Richara 
Pococke,  LL.B.,  was  rector  there  from  19  July, 
1660.  to  20  March,  1718/9,  the  date  of  his 
death.  See  the  parish  registers  of  Priors 
Dean  and  Colmer,  edited  by  the  Rev.  Thomas 
Hervey  (Colmer,  1886).  This  rector  is  men- 
tioned in  the  *  Diet.  Nat.  Biog.,*  vol.  v.  p.  49, 
where  for  "  Elmore  "  (in  1.  12)  read  Colmer  or 
Colemore.  Cf.  *  N.  ife  Q.,*  2-^  S.  vii.  129  ;  7"»  S. 
xii.  406.  H.  C. 

Unpubushed  Verses  by  Ben  Jonson.— 
A  letter  was  printed  under  this  heading  in 
Williis  Cun^ent  Notes  for  September,  1851, 
vol.  i.  p.  68,  in  which  the  writer  said  : — 

**A  copy  of  Heliodorus'  'Ethiopian  History* 
lately  came  into  my  ijossession,  on  the  title-page  of 
which  was  the  autocrat  >h  of  *  Ben  Jonson,  tanquam 
explorator.'  On  the  marj^rin  of  a  subsequent  page 
is  a  translation  in  the  poet's  handwriting,  suggested 
as  an  improvement  of  the  text,  which  is  here 
subjoined. 

Inevitable  fate  to  shun 

Thou  tak'st  a  world  of  toil : 
For  this  you  left  your  native  home, 

And  Nile's  unrivalled  soil. 
Take  courage,  friend,  for  I  will  give 

Th'  Egyptian  fields  again 
To  thy  despairing  eyes  ;  till  then 
Our  guest  thou  shalt  remain." 

The  writer,  who  signs  himself  "A.  F.  W., 
Feltham,"  adds  that  he  purchased  the  book 
from  Mr.  VVillis. 

Having  in  my  possession  a  copy  of  Under- 
downe^s  translation  of  'An  .Ethiopian 
Historie,*  published  by  Francis  Coldocke  in 
1587,  whicn  is,  I  believe,  the  earliest  extant 
edition,  I  looked  up  this  pasHage,  and  found 
it  on  folio  33.    The  verses  run  as  under : — 

To  shunne  the  destinies  f*ure  decree 

thou  takest  all  this  toile  : 
And  therefore  leanest  the  fruitefull  coast 

of  Nylua  fertile  soile. 
Haue  a  good  heart,  for  I  will  gcue 

the  blakish  field  os  aj^ine 
Of  jEgypt  vnto  thee,  till  then, 

9Ur  fnend  thou  shalt  remaine, 


It  would  be  interesting  to  know  where 
A.  F.  W.'s  volume  is  at  present  located.  The 
lines  quoted  by  him  have  rather  a  modem 
twang.  W.  F.  Pbidkatjx. 

Qravestone  at  Waltham  Abbey.  (See 
9*^  S.  vi  296.)— The  first  two  lines  of  the 
epitaph  on  the  Eev.  Isaac  Colnett  at 
Waltham  Abbey  are  the  earlier  part  of  an 
epitaph  written  by  Qarrick  for  his  friend 
Laurence  Sterne,  who  died  in  1768.  The 
quatrain  is  as  follows  : — 

Shall  Pride  a  heap  of  sculptured  marble  raise 
Some  worthless,  unmoum  d,  titled  fool  to  praise. 
And  shall  we  not  by  one  poor  gravestone  learn 
Where  Genius,  Wit,  and  Humour,  sleep  with  Sterne? 

John  I^ckford,  M.A. 
Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

A  Miraculous  Bolt.— According  to  the 
Paris  journal  Le  Temps  of  11  November,  1900, 
the  church  of  St.  Leonard,  situated  thirteen 
miles  (vtngt  kilometres)  from  Limoges, 
possesses,  amongst  other  historical  curioei- 
ties,  a  bolt  which  enjoys  a  great  repute  in 
the  localitv.  Young  wives  unblessea  ^with 
offspring  have  boundless  confidence  in  it. 
They  repair  to  the  cha)3el  where  it  is  pre- 
served, and,  touching  it  with  the  hand,  malce  a 
neuvaine  on  the  saint's  tomb.  But  on  Tuesday, 
6  November,  1900,  being  St.  Leonard's  day, 
the  clergy  of  the  parish  made  a  neuvaine  in 
favour  of  the  Empress  of  Russia,  who  desires 
to  have  a  son.  This  ceremonv  took  place  at 
the  request  of  Count  Alexeief,  Qrand-Master 
of  the  Ceremonies  at  the  Court  of  the  Tsar. 

J.  L.  Hexlis. 

Penzance. 

BuRNs's  *Tam  Glen.— In  the  "Golden 
Treasury"  volume  of  *  Scottish  Song,'  ed. 
1874,  Mrs.  Carlyle  gives  the  third  stanza  of 
Burns's  *Tam  Glen  Hhus  :— 

There's  Lowrie,  the  laird  o'  Drumeller, 

**  Good  day  to  you,  brute !  **  he  comes  ben : 
He  brags  and  he  blaws  o'  his  siller. 
But  when  will  he  dance  like  Tam  Glen  ? 

The  second  line  of  this  stanza  manifestly  im- 
plies that  the  salutation  quoted  is  that  of  the 
uncouth  laird  to  the  youn^  lady  with  whom 
he  wishes  to  ingratiate  himself.  One  can 
hardly  wonder  that,  if  this  presentation  is 
correct,  his  suit  was  a  signal  failure.  But  the 
reading  is,  of  course,  absurd ;  even  an  un- 
sophisticated rustic  would  not  be  guilty  of 
such  hopelesslv  low-bred  vulgarity  as  is  im- 
plied in  the  form  of  address  as  it  stands. 
What  the  laird  says  is,  unquestionably,  "Good 
day  to  you  ! "  The  young  narrator,  recording 
it,  imitates,  somewnat  petulantly^  no  doubt, 
the  harsh,  unrefined  tones  in  which  the  ad* 


«•  &  vn.  ja».  19.  MOW       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


47 


is  mwdB,  and  then  eKcl^lmi  "  Brute  !  '* 
AS  ^  parenthetical  commentary  on  the 
speakers  manner.  This  givea  the  line  in  this 
reasotiabJe  form : — 

**  Good  d^j  to  yoa  "— brut« !— be  oomea  ben, 
Thomas  Baynb. 

NoTTiNaHAH  Aim  Notts.  -  The  former 
place-name  ia  freqiaently  abbreviated  "Notts," 
and  waa  given  in  this  way  even  in  '  N.  &  Q/ 
(anie^  p.  1%  cols.  1  and  2).  This  is  incorrect 
"Notts  "13  an  abbreviation  for  Nottingham - 
shire,  and  not  for  the  connty  town  (or  city)- 

LlOETS  fliaif  OYER  THE  pLACE  WHERE  TEEA- 

8I7SK  IS  BUEIBD. — In  th©  republic  of  Colombia 
tbeae  are  said  to  be  seen  in  the  dusk,  a  blue 
gleam  indicating  silver ;  hut  if  the  h'ght  be 
yellow^  gold  may  be  expected  beneath.  The 
flame  takes  the  snape  of  the  receptacle  which 
contains  the  hoard.  At  8an  Felipe,  an  estate 
in  the  north  of  ToUma  (Colombia),  the  former 
owner  frequently  observed  luminous  rays 
over  a  certain  spot.  One  day»  as  ho  was 
riding  near  the  place,  his  mule  suddenly 
stumbled  and  threw  him.    On  examining  the 

ground  to  find  the  cause  of  the  accident,  ho 
^  iacoirared  that  the  aniinal  had  put  her  foot 
into  a  hole  wherein  there  was  an  earthenware 
pot  filled  with  old  Spanish  gold  pieces. 

Ibaquj^ 

Thb  Evil  Eyb.— The  following  extract  is 
from  the  Daili^  Graphic,  28  December,  1900  : 

"  When  M.  Zo\m  produced  th&t  uripteMtnnt  but 
inpeec^bly  ftccarate  story  of  French  village  life, 
'  Ia  Terr«/  be  waa  aocuiea  by  a  good  ndiiny  peotile 
of  luvin^  coloured  bis  picture  too  highly.  Tht? 
sniientitiDii  revealed  in  the  tale  of  the  murder  of 
an  old  mftn  of  Heventy-two  o,i  Angers  in  n  atriking 
ex&mple  of  the  iDtellectual  level  of  Jacques  Boii- 
faomitie.  The  old  uiui  was  reputed  to  be  the  po«- 
■ewor  of  thai  in^ooveniant  organ,  the  evil  eye,  and 
tiro  young  peaAeLotJi  ji>orguadea  tbemBelre^  that  he 
had  Senriiched  their  cattle.  They  therefore  deter- 
mioed  to  put  the  Borceror  out  of  the  way,  eet  uiwn 
fatm,  beat  him  to  death  with  sticks,  and  then,  for 
fear  that  he  should  come  to  life  airain^  stabbed  hint 
through  the  heart*  and  nearly  severed  his  htuul 
from  his  body.  The  moat  curious  point  of  all  is, 
bowevert  that  the  |.jeaaaQtry  In  the  ueighbourhood 
are  «aid  to  bo  eutirely  on  the  side  of^the  young 
men,  vbom  tbey  regard  as  public-spirited  person's, 
who  have  lueritonously  performed  an  unplea^sant 
duty.  Probably,  if  the  truth  were  known,  thtsy 
vouLd  find  many  iympathiHors  in  man]^  lands,  for 
tbe  beLiof  in  and  fear  of  the  evil  eye  is  deep  and 
widevpread.  Indeed^  an  aLmoat  precisely  si ui liar 
CMS  oocnrred  in  Ireland  but  a  few  year«  Bgo/' 

Joseph  Colunson. 

^lee  1^  S.  L  ^!8;  iiL  m;  3^  S.  vi.  4^;  %\\.  261, 
3lX  365;  %*  H.  L  193;  &^  a  i.  ^M,  374;  ii.  9:);  x. 
306;  li  a  293;  xii,  118,  515;  6*»*  B.  i.  114;  8***  S. 
fiiL  140;  tx.  402;  x.  416;  2i.  24&] 


Wi  nrns!  rBoueal  corretpondenta  deflirin^  infor- 
mation on  famfly  matters  of  only  private  uiterest 
to  aMx  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queHea, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct. 

"AnCE     MAEIOLE"     in     a     CHABT£H."Thi8 

term  occurs  in  a  ver^  interesting  catalogue 
of  the  got  Mia  of  Abbot  Nicholas  of  Weatmin- 
ster.  who  held  the  manor  of  this  pariah.  He 
died  1387.  I  have  reafton  to  believe  from 
the  context  that  the  phraae  denotes  geese  or 
awaniit,  but  am  uncertain  on  this  point, 

J,   Cf.  LlVESEY, 

Denham,  Bucks. 

Leghorn.— How  did  Li  vorno  become  trans* 
formed  to  Leghorn?  Satlora  are  charged 
with  thill  change,  but  Evelyn,  in  his  '  DiaryJ 
spelk  it  Livorno  and  Ligome  in  1644,  and 
Leghorne  in  1672,  H.  O.  H. 

Llanbedr,  R.S,U.,  Merioneth. 

"Glex"  AND  "GLENE-^'-In  *  The  Oxford 
English  Dictionary '  (vol,  iv,)  *  Glen  '  is  given 
aa  a  Scottish  woid,  and  translated  ^^a  daf- 
fodil," on  the  authority  of  Janiieaon*  No 
etymon  in  there  suggested  for  it,  A  little 
below,  on  the  mmQ  page  (216)^  'Glene*  is 
registered,  and  athliaterl  to  "yXiivry,  the  ball 
or  pupil  of  the  ejre."  May  it  not  oe  that  gUn 
was  also  peciantically  taken  from  the  same 
rooti  £,  Littre  has  a  long  list  of  the  dif* 
ferent  uses  of  o??7^ee=litLle  eye,  as  the  nara© 
of  a.  flower,  and  records  among  its  meanings 
**  (Eillet  de  F&que«,  le  narcisae  des  poetes, 
A^arcnsiis  jfoeticuif.''  If  an  Easter  pink  be 
calleti  an  *' eyelet'  in  France^  a  daflxidil  ha« 
m  much  rijjht  to  be  caHed  an  "eyeball"  in 
the  nortli  ot  the  i^le  of  Britain, 

E.  S.  DoDOSON, 

John  Anthony  Greatohex  waa  admitted 
to  Wenim Ulster  School  on  23  June*  17S2.  Can 
correfipoodente  of  *  N.  vfe  O.*  give  me  any 
information  concerning  himf     G*  F.  R  B. 

Grant. —  Lewis  Grant  was  admitted  to 
Westminj4tc!r  School  on  26  June,  I7ft0,  and 
Richard  Grant  on  16  January,  1786.  I  should 
bo  glad  of  any  help  in  identifying  these 
Grants,  G,  F.  U.  B. 

Book  vhr  Chili>ren.-  Can  you  or  any  of 

your  rea^lers  let  nve  know  the  title  and  jmb- 
liiiher  of  Ii  IxK^k  for  chihl  ron  in  which  a  little 
girl  called  Dot  tie,  accompanied  bv  a  black 
cat  called  Flulfy  and  a  wooden  doll  called 
Patty,  b4>th  gift-ed  with  speech,  had  many 
adventures  by  means  of  the  magic  carpet 
mentioned  in  the  '  Arabian  Nights   aa  trans- 


48 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      P*  s.  vn.  Jan.  i9.  iwi. 


porting  those  who  sat  upon  it  to  whatever 
place  tney  wished  to  goi  I  have,  unfortu- 
nately, forgotten  both  the  title  and  the 
author's  name.       ,  Castlemore. 

"In  the  John  Trott  way."  — Arthur 
Young,  in  his  'Farmer's  Calendar,'  1804  edi- 
tion, p.  103,  writes :  "  Claying  or  marling 
seldom  or  never  answers  where  you  go  on 
immediately  with  a  course  of  ploughing  in 
the  John  Trott  way."  Who  was  John  Trott, 
and  what  were  his  ways  1 

K.  Hedger  Wallace. 

[John  Trott  is  a  signature  used  by  Steele  in  the 
Spectator,  No.  296,  8  February,  1712,  No.  314, 
29  February,  1712,  and  elsewhere.  It  also  occurs 
occasionally  in  the  Walpole  correspondence  (see 
8*»»  8.  xi.  289).  Goldsmith's  *The  Clown's  Reply' 
begins  :— 

John  Trott  was  desired  by  two  worthy  peers 
To  tell  them  the  reason  why  asses  had  ears. 
In  1728  Bolingbroke  appended  the  signature  John 
Trot  to  some  letters  in  the  Craftsman.  Joan 
Trot  is  used  by  CoUey  Gibber  in  his  '  Apology '  (see 
8^^  S.  xii.  95).  Some  connexion  between  John 
Trott  and  jog  trot  seems  intended  by  Arthur  Young.] 

Chavasse  Family.  —  Can  any  of  your 
readers  oblige  by  informing  me  where  I 
can  find  any  biographical  details  respecting 
members  of  the  Chavasse  family?  Some  of 
those  whose  deaths  occurred  in  the  early 
part  of  the  eighteenth  century  were  Homan 
Catholics,  and  one,  I  believe,  was  a  godson 
to  Lord  Derwentwater. 

W.  Brooke  Smith. 

7,  Inglewood  Road,  West  Hampstead,  N.W. 

"Hooligan." — Information  is  requested  as 
to  the  origin  of  the  term  "  Hooligan." 

M.  E.  Smith. 
35,  Sutton  Road,  Walsall. 

[You  have  probablv  seen  the  suggestion  that  the 
word  originally  used  was  '^Hooley's  gang."  See 
also  9^  S.  ii.  W,  316.] 

Seabchers  of  Leather. — Can  any  of  your 
readers  say  what  were  the  duties  of  the 
above-named  officers  appointed  by  the  Courts 
Leet?  G.  Phillips. 

Oakham. 

John  Stewart  Kipling,  of  Furnival's 
Inn.— When  the  daughters  of  David  Dale  in 
1823  sold  their  father's  Glasgow  house,  Mrs. 
Mary  Dale  or  Stewart  attended  at  the  police 
court  in  Hatton  Garden,  in  presence  of 
Allan  Stewart  Laing,  Justice  of  Peace,  and 
James  Aspinall,  notary  public,  to  make  a 
declaration  "that  she  was  noways  coacted, 
compelled,  or  seduced  to  concur"  in  the 
conveyance;  **  whereupon  John  Stewart  Kip- 
ling, of  Furnival's  Inn,  London,  Kentleman." 
appeared,  in  conformity   with   the  Scottish 


conveyancing  of  the  time,  as  procurator  for 
the  p)urchaser  of  the  house,  and  asked  and 
took  instruments  in  the  notary's  hands.  Was 
John  Stewart  Kipling  any  relation  of  Mr. 
Rudyard  Kipling  ] 

William  George  Black. 
Ramoyle,  Dowanhill  Gardens,  Glasgow. 

J.  M.  W.  Turner.  —  Is  the  drawing  of 
Wanstead  House  in  existence  which  J.  M.  W. 
Turner  exhibited  previous  to  his  entry  as  a 
Royal  Academy  student  in  1789  ? 

John  T.  Page. 

West  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 

John  Broom,  of  Poole.— Capt.  Cook,  on 
one  of  his  voyages  in  which  he  touched  at 
Newfoundlana,  is  said  to  have  sailed  in  a 
ship  owned  by  John  Broom,  of  Poole,  or 
pernaps  built  by  him,  and  to  have  been 
accompani^  on  this  voyage  by  John  Broom's 
son,  another  John  Broom.  Can  any  one  help 
me  to  corroborate  this  minor  detail  of  his- 
tory? H.  M.  Batson. 

Uoe  Benham,  Newbury. 

Paschal  Moons.  —  In  Keim's  '  Jesus  of 
Nazara,'  vol.  vi.  p.  240,  reference  is  made  to 
a  table  published  by  a  Prof.  Wurm,  giving 
the  dates  of  all  the  Paschal  full  moons  and 
new  moons  during  the  rule  of  Pontius  Pilate 
in  Judaea.  Where  in  this  country  can  any 
copy  of  this  table  of  Prof.  Wurm  be  in- 
spected? A.D.T. 

Beardshaw  or  Bearde-shawb.— Richard 
Beardshaw  in  1618  was  churchwarden  at  St 
James's  Church,  Grimsby,  and  had  children 
baptized  there,  and  he  and  his  wife  Frances 
were  buried  there.  When  and  where  were 
they  married?  Alderman  William  Beard- 
shaw in  1646.  1657,  and  1658  was  Mayor  of 
Grimsby.  When  and  where  was  he  buried  1 
Barnsley,  Ecclesfield,  and  Lincolnshire  refer- 
ences to  this  surname  are  particularly  desired, 
and  any  reference  ante  1700  will  be  much 
appreciated  and  gratefully  acknowledged. 
Direct  communication  preferred. 

Henry  John  Beardshaw. 

27,  Northumberland  Road,  Sheffield. 

"Bijou"  as  a  Christian  Name. — A  young 
lady  recently  signed  herself  in  a  local  journal 
as  "  Bijou,"  in  response  to  letters  of  sympathy 
in  a  personal  bereavement.  Is  this  a  solitary 
instance  of  the  use  of  this  word  amongst  ua 
as  a  Christian  name?  French  mothers  fre- 
quently call  their  ofifepring  "  mon  bijou  "  as 
an  Irishman,  in  its  Celtic  equivalent^  dubs 
his  sweetheart  "  me  jewel " ;  but  I  have  never, 
up  to  above  example,  come  across  its  adoption 
by  British  families  as  a  Christian  pre-name, 


«»8.viljak.i9H90i.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


49 


tfaough  I  h^ye  met  with  it  as  a  term  of  endear- 
mecit  on  this  dde  the  Channel 

J.  R  McGovEEN* 
Coti-M.,  MaEeheeter. 

Steere.^1  am  anxions  to  learn  something 
of  the  antecedents  of  this  family.  There  waa 
a  Bishop  of  Ardfert  of  thia  name  about  250 
veara  ago,  and  his  daughter  married  David 
Croabie,  of  Ardfert  Abbey,  ancestor  of  the 
firat  Earl  of  Glandore  (ext), 

Kathleix  Waed, 

Castk  Ward,  Downpatrick, 

**LYNOKLL."~In  *Lybrt!ua  Disconus'  one 
finds  the  above  word,  usually  in  connexion 
with  a  ahieJd,  e.^.,  L  2&6»  "of  which  leogell 
and  trappes^i  L  861,  "  waa  lyngell  and  trap- 
pare";  L  1,274^  "lyngell  armes  trappur  was 
and  wyeh-  It  app^ira  that  the  shoemaker*a 
thread  (see  *  N.  £  Q.,'  B^^  S.  v.  187)  does  not 
exhaust  all  the  meanings  of  the  *' little 
tongue  " ;  but  I  have  looked  through  glos- 
saries in  vain.  H.  P.  L. 

'CoLBtran's  New  Monthly  Magazine.'— 
By  whom  were  the  papers  contributed  to 
Cot&^m's  New  Monthty  Magamm  under  the 
respective  titles  '  The  Managers  Note- Book  ' 
and  *Eecords  of  a  Stage  Veteran  *  ]  I  have 
b^u^  the  names  of  John  Poole  and  W,  G. 
Baymond  mentioned  in  connexion  with  both. 

AliTHoifY  Whaeton.— In  1596  he  was  at 
linooln  Ckfllegej  Oxford,  Was  he  identical 
with  Anthony  Wharton,  B,A.»  ordained 
WO^-B  by  the  Bishop  of-  London  and  licensed 
to  serve  Breamore,  Hants,  1626,  died  there 
1661  (P,C.a  102  May)  ?  A.  C.  H, 

[Foster^fl  *j4luniiii  Uxonjenaes'  BuptiUes  the  fol* 
loving  additional  Dfirticullar^ :  **  Mdtric.  entry 
6Not,»  1396,  aged  13;  B,A.,  12  Fob.,  1001/2."] 

ULBrcKsTAixr.— In  the  *  Annual  Register' 
for  1773j  at  p,  106,  occurs:  **TheKoyal 
Academy  of  Sciences  at  U 1  ricks  tad  t  elected 
Mr.  Banks,  his  companion  Dr,  Solander  (who 
ii  by  birth  a  Swede),  and  Dr*  Lewis^  a  famous 
Elnglish  chemist,  members  of  that  learned 
bodj."  May  I  ask  where  is  Ul  ricks  tad  t  ] 
I  have  oonsolt^  various  gazetteers  and  guide- 
books to  Sweden  of  modern  and  of  earlier 
datei  bnt  cannot  find  it.  Can  aoy  of  your 
raaderi  help  me?  I  iind  an  Uiriksdal,  a 
palace  named  after  Ulrika,  queen  of  K&rl  XL. 
which  wa^  l&ter  converted  into  the  lloyal 
Military  Academy  at  Stockholm.  As  there 
are  seven  fioyal  Academies  of  Sweden  at 
Stockholm,  perhaps  the  *  Annual  Register' 
mftde  a  confusion  between  the  Eoyal 
Affifflftfny  oi  bekuce  and  the  Royal  Military 


Academy,  and  then  put  Ulrick-stadt  for 
-dal»  "Stadt'*  is  German,  of  course,  not 
Swedish.  Ebwaud  K  Mokbis. 

The  Univareity,  Melbourne. 

A  QcFAiNT  Custom.— 

"Thft  Dinner  beinff  served,  Ssir  Oliver  waa  the 

fayeat  Man  in  the  Comy*aiiy.  The  Bridegroom  and 
Sri  do  sitting  by  the  side  of  each  other,  the  oM 
Gentleman  onnerved,  *UdB-heari,  oda-hoart  !  what, 
dine  with  the  Bride  the  finit  Day  1  A  fine  Bride- 
groom, a  fine  Brid«irroom  1  It  wan  the  Fashion » 
when  1  was  married,  to  8t«nd  behind  the  Bnde'e 
Chajr  with  a  Napkin^  and  serve  her:  Serve  her  To- 
day, flhe '11  serve  you  always  after.' **— John  Sheb- 
beare,  *  Matrimony'  (1754).  vol.  ii.  p.  40  U7e6). 

At  the  risk  of  betraying  ignorance  by  the 
question,  I  wi^h  to  aafe  when  and  where,  if 
ever  and  anywhere,  there  existed  such  a 
custom  as  is  here  mentioned. 

The  novel  quoted  above,  which,  on  ita  first 
publication,  made  a  great  stir,  and  for  which 
Its  author  was  imprisoned,  was  originally 
entitled  *The  Marriage  Act*  The  unsold 
copies  of  it,  with  its  name  changed  to  *  Matri- 
mony,' were  issued  in  1755,  as  the  so-called 
second  edition.  F.  H. 

Marlesford. 

TuLOAB  ilisnaE  of  '*RiGnT,"— 

■"I  have  no  right  to  main  tain  idle  vagrants.**— 

Smollett,  'Humphry  Clinker  ^{1771K  *  Works  MlBOft), 

vol.  vj.  p.  SS. 
^*  I  dan^t  see  as  how  women  have  any  right  to  b« 

trampled  on,  whether  at  home  or  abrcmd/— Eleanor 

Sleath,  *The  Briatol  Heireas  '  (1809),  vol  i*  p.  209> 

How  far  back  is  "to  have  a  right,"  in  the 
sense  of  "  ought,"  traceable  ?  F.  H. 

Mark^ford. 

Fban<jks  Woolleky. — This  lady  waa  an 
actress  of  some  eminence  in  the  latter  t^rt 
of  the  eighteenth  century  (aee  *  Thespian  Dic- 
tionary ').  She  ia  said  to  have  been  niece  of 
William  WouUery,  an  eminent  West  Indian 
planter,  who  diea  at  Bristol,  I  April,  1789.  She 
married,  from  the  stage  in  Duolin,  Mr,  J.  H. 
Cottinghara,  an  Irish  barriHter  of  good  family, 
I  should  be  glad  to  know  who  her  parents 
were,  and  anything  of  her  career  beyond 
what  is  stated  in  the  *  Thespian  Dictionary/ 

Sigma  Tav* 

EnwARP,  Fbihck  of  Wales,  1463-71.— Is 

there  any  contemporary  record  of  the  per- 
sonal appearance  of  "  holv  Henry's"  unhappy 
son?  One  account  calls  him  **a  goodly 
feminine  and  well- featured  yonng  gentle- 
man '' ;  but  was  he  f lark  or  fair  I  The  ad- 
mirable article  on  Edward  in  the  *I),N,B.* 
disdains  details  so  trivial— if  any  such  details 
have  come  down  to  us.  It  is  now  generally 
admitted*-ia  it  not  1— that  the  young  prince 


50 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      »*  s.  vil  jax.  i9.  iwi. 


fell  on  the  field  of  Tewkesbury,  and  was  not 
barbarously  done  to  death,  after  the  battle, 
by  the  royal  brothers  of  the  White  Rose  fac- 
tion. A.  R.  Bayley. 


IPPLEPEN,  CX).  DEVON. 
(9">  S.  vi.  409.) 

The  etymology  of  this  place  is  an  outcome 
of  that  peculiar  phase  of  J ewish  dispersion  to 
which  we  owe  some  of  our  most  valuable 
national  characteristics,  notably  our  fitness 
for  colonization  and  trade. 

The  decaying  village  of  Ipplepen,  upon  the 
trackway  from  Hamoaze  and  Tatnai's  to  the 
East,  is  one  unexplored  mass  of  antiquity. 
Over  200  names  ot  Phoenician  places,  and  of 
people  even  now  of  strong  Levantine  type, 
with  strange  interconnexions  between  them, 
centre  in  or  near  it,  while  the  stone  axe, 
unique-shaped  celt,  and  cop^r  cake  found  in 
or  near  my  own  grounds  indicate  its  life- 
history  at  over  forty  centuries.  During  some 
forty  years'  residence  near  the  weird  old  place 
these  considerations  have  pressed  on  me 
until,  with  the  help  of  a  moderate  knowledge 
of  Semitic,  so  as  to  sort  out  the  fossils  of 
speech,  ana  the  aid  of  some  kindly  scholars 
hailing  from  the  British  Museum— among 
them  a  chief  rabbi— I  have  ventured  to  give 
(much  condensed)  an  outline  of  hoar,  yet,  I 
submit,  tolerably  continuous,  antiauity. 

After  the  Exodus  the  tribes  ox  Dan  and 
Asher  fell  into  line  with  the  Syrian  shorefolk 
who  had  for  ages  carried  on  the  tin  trade 
between  Tyre  and  her  daughter-namesakes 
Ha  Maoz,  now  Plymouth,  and  St.  Mawes, 
now  Falmouth^  still  Kerek  Roads.  When 
Tyre  fell,  Gaddir,  now  Cadiz,  came  in.  From 
these  centres  ships  laden  with  com,  wine,  oil. 
pottery,  and  tools,  as  barter  for  wool  ana 
skins,  traversed  both  sides  of  the  British 
Isles.  Like  the  Hudson  Bay  folk,  they  put 
in  shore  every  night,  and  thus  at  the  mouth 
of  every  river  (whether  it  were  a  Nore  or 
Yare)  sprang  up  a  factory  (mtshal)  or  inn 
(lun)  to  shelter  and  feed  the  crews  and  store 
up  inward  and  outward  freight.  Tents  (ohel^ 
the  Cornish  wheal)  were  usea  up  stream. 

We  have  thus  permanent  residents,  to 
whom  came  women  and  children,  with  some 
kind  of  religion — in  fact,  Jews  could  not 
dispense  with  circumcision  and  the  Sabbath, 
however  dark  they  might  keep  them.  But 
the  religion  was  somewhat  mixed,  for  up  to 
the  time  of  Hosea  Baal  had  apparently 
been  permitted  to  flourish,  and  at  Elijah  s 
•acrifice  the   people   had   passed  from  the 


false  to  the  true  without  change  of  pcwition. 
Here,  too,  in  England  was  there  confusion, 
for  with  us  at  Ipplepen  are  the  remains 
of  a  great  Baal  temple  under  Baal  Tor, 
with  its  lustration  rock-cut  tank,  and  its 
boundary  still  known  as  Edgelands  Lane, 
Nay,  there  still  exists  in  the  place  the  nona- 
genarian descendant  of  the  Baal  pnest  who, 
till  forty  years  ago,  held  the  temple  site  by 
descent ;  and  he  bears  his  ancestral  nam^ 
hardly  altered  to  Ballhatchet  from  its  original 
form  Baal-achad— Baal  only,  or  Baal  is  one. 
The  false  here  again  parodied  the  true,  for  this 
is  a  blasphemous  allusion  to  "  Hear,  O  Israel, 
declared  by  the  holiest  lips  which  ever  spoke 
on  earth  to  be  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment. The  name  of  the  prophet  Joel  (Jo-El» 
Jahweh  is  El)  shows  that  Baal-achad  is  a 
variation  to  suit  the  jingle  dear  to  the  Semite, 
and  a  frequent  Hebraism. 

And  now  to  the  name  of  Ipplepen,  its  first 
syllable.  In  Joshua,  chap,  xyii.,  are  the  xiames 
of  various  Syrian  towns  with  their  suburbs 
—the  word  is  naphath  (A.V.,  towns ;  Sept, 
villages;  Heintz,  "  daughters /;).  Amonp 
them  is  •*D6r,"a  royal  city,  which  E:^ki^ 
chap,  xxvii.,  classes  with  Aradus  (now  Ruad, 
with  us  as  Ryde)  as  supplying  Tyre's  stoutest 
rowers  and  warriors.  This  district  was  called 
Naphath  Dor,  and  under  thisstvle  her  people 
brought  four  daughters  to  our  shores :  Apple- 
dore  in  Devon  and  Kent  and  on  the  borders 
of  Somerset,  and  Appuldorcombe  in  that 
Phoenician  sanctuary  the  Isle  of  Wight 
This  corruption  to  Apple  occurs  many 
times ;  funniest  of  all  in  a  stormy  pl«5e  m 
the  west  of  Scotland  where  apples  will  not 
grow,  and  Applecross  means  Naphath  Rosch, 
the  district  of  the  headland,  like  Ross-shire. 

We  have  found  Ipple  ;  we  have  yet  to  find 
the  last  syllable  of  Domesday  Ipplepina. 
Baal  and  Ashtoreth  were  worshipped  jointly, 
the  lady's  pet  name  on  Maltese  steles  being 
Pen  Baal,  the  face  of  Baal.  She  has  a  temple 
a  mile  from  Ipplepen,  called  on  the  Ordnance 
map  Pen  Ball.  The  whole  district  was  prac- 
tically consecrated  to  the  pair  of  deities,  and 
was  thus  called  Naphath  Pen— the  distnct 
of  the  Face  (i.e.,  Baal),  from  which  the  Ipple- 
pina is  taken. 

One  of  the  strange  interconnexions  may,  if 
your  space  permit,  be  noticed.  There  are 
several  copper  oaks  —oaks  of  cobr,  the  grave. 
A  weird  survival  of  one,  pulled  down  two  y.e»w 
ago,  overlooked  a  field  called  **Kennion. 
Now,  we  learn  from  Genesis  xxiiL  18  that 
Machpelah  was  Abraham's  "kennion,"  his 
purchased  possession. 

To  show  that  this  interconnexion  is  common 
to  Ireland  as  well,  may  I  append  a  few  Irish 


»^  8.  VIL  Jan.  10, 190L]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


51 


immee  evidently  given  by  a  Semitic  employer  J 
McCarthy,  city  man,  root  cartha;  Malonv, 
inn,  lun;  Mahony,  house,  me'on;  M*Beth, 
hooae,  beth;  McDona,  masters,  lords,  adon; 
Healy,  tent,  Ohel;  Cassidy,  saints,  cha  sidi; 
while  Newry,  the  rouncf  towers  (of  which 
2,000  exist  in  Sardinia),  is  nuoroghe, 

Mr.  Arnold  White,  in  his  *  Modem   Jew* 
(1899X  mourns  that  so  few  of  the  present 
nation  of  ^  the  Not  Yet  ^  care  for  their  modern 
history.    Surely  a  great  field  exists  for  it. 
W.  G.  Thorpe,  F.S.A. 

Middle  Temple. 

[By  reference  to  7*^  S.  ix.  6  Mb.  Thorps  will  see 
tnkt  Attention  was  drawn  eleven  years  ago  to  bis 
Phomician  identification.] 


Simon  Feaser  (8«»  S.  x.  156,  223 ;  ^^  S.  vi. 
157.  338,  433;  vii.  16).— "Strict  accuracy  "is 
nnaoubtedly  essential :  and  no  less,  I  think, 
in  •*  honour  to  whom  nonour  is  due."  The 
^  relation  of  how  the  picture  was  an  etching 

by    Hogarth    himself from    his    painted 

portrait  of  Lord  Lovat,"  quoted  from  Hone's 
'Table  Book,'  is  copier]  into  that  entertaining 
work  from  the  catalogue  of  Mr.  Horatio  Rodo, 
who  had  the  picture  on  sale  (30  in.  by  25  in.) 
in  1827.  It  came  from  the  collection  of  Dr. 
Webster,  a  physician  at  St.  Albans,  who 
attended  Lord  Lovat  during  his  stay  there  on 
his  way  to  London.  It  is,  perhaps,  well  to 
hare  the  original  authority  for  this  sort  of 
statement  Julian  Marshall. 

Fanfulla  (9"»  S.  vi.  408).— This  worthy  is 
a  character  in  Massimo  D'Azeglio's  novels 
'  Ettore  Fieramosca '  and  *  Niccol6  de'  Lapi,' 
playing  a  considerable  and  gallant  part  in 
the  latter.  He  is  a  daring  soldier  of  fortune, 
and  after  one  of  his  many  wounds  takes 
refuge  in  St.  Mark's  and  becomes  a  monk 
under  the  name  of  Fra  Giorgio  da  Lodi.  It 
is  fifty  years  since  I  read  the  book,  but  I 
think  the  clang  of  spear  and  shield  brought 
him  again  into  the  field.  In  the  end,  receiving 
blows  from  a  comrade  by  way  of  penance,  he 
received  one  too  many  and  died  thereof. 

Aldenham. 

LiTUBGiCAL  Language  of  the  Greek 
Church  (9*»»  S.  v.  515  ;  vi.  118).— In  Mr. 
Armstrong's  communication  for  "  Hagios " 
read  'Af  tos.  Richard  H.  Thornton. 

Portland,  Oregon. 

The  liturgical  language  of  the  Greek 
Churcti  is  late  or  mediaeval  Greek,  as  a 
learned  native  of  Greece  informs  us ;  that 
of  the  Russian  Orthodox  Church  is  Cnurch- 
SlaTooic,  according  to  the  medieval  liturgies 
tranalaled  from  toe  Greek  by  Cyrillus  and 


Methodius,  the  celebrated  apostles  of  the 
Slavs,  who  founded  a  Slavonic  literature 
during  the  ninth  century  by  their  translation 
of  the  Holy  Scriptures  from  the  Greek  into 
the  Church-Slavonic  language.  X. 

Count  Giuseppe  Pecchio  (9"*  S.  vi.  308, 395). 
— I  have  been  unable  to  find  the  memoir  of 
Pecchio  (the  biographer  of  Foscolo)  in  the 
Monthly  Repository,  1835,  p.  590,  referred  to 
by  V.H'.I.L.I.C.I.V.  Will  your  correspondent 
be  good  enough  to  verify  the  reference  ? 

John  Hebb. 

"Butty"  (9"»  S.  vi.  409,  496).— Perhaps  it  is 
worth  while  to  say  that  any  connexion  with 
deputy  is  obviously  impossible.  When  a  word 
is  shortened,  the  accented  syllable  remains  : 
so  that  the  shortened  form  of  deputy  would 
be  depHy,  which  would  pass  into  deppy  or 
dettyy  probably  the  former.  The  douoiet  of 
cdpttai  is  not  pittle,  but  catUe, 

rTeither  can  butty  be  short  for  abettor  ;  for 
the  short  form  of  abettor  is  the  common  word 
better,  one  who  bets.  There  is  no  "  A.-S.  bote  " ; 
for  tne  A.-S.  word  has  no  final  c,  and  the  o 
is  long ;  whence  the  modern  English  boot. 
But  there  is  a  remote  connexion,  for  our 
booty  is  from  F.  butin,  which  is  from  some 
continental  cognate  of  A.-S.  boU 

Walter  W.  Skeat. 

When  one  man  speaks  of  another  as  his 
butty,  does  he  not  mean  one  who  worked  with 
him,  side  by  side  ?  Is  not  this  the  sense  of 
butt,  as  in  butt-end,  butted,  and  the  like  ?  See 
9"^  S.  V.  336,  443,  where  examples  are  given 
of  butted,  meaning  end  to  end,  side  hj  side. 
Not  long  ago  an  aged  Worcestershire  ditcher, 
speaking  to  me  of  nis  fellow-workman  on  the 
same  piece,  said,  "  He  was  my  butty,"  "  He 
worked  butty  along  o'  me."  W.  C.  B. 

In  the  Black  Country  the  expression 
"butty  collier"  is  used  to  describe  a  man 
who  contracts  with  the  proprietor  of  a  coal- 
pit to  get  and  raise  coal  to  the  bank  at  so 
much  per  ton.  The  coal  remains  the  property 
of  the  collierv  proprietor,  who  himself  puts 
it  on  the  market.  In  the  Midlands  generally 
the  meaning  of  butty  is  a  fellow-workman, 
partner,  or  close  associate.  In  the  Cannock 
Chase  aistrict  stall-men,  who  work  in  twos 
and  threes,  divide  their  earnings  equally 
after  paying  their  underbands,  and  often 
describe  each  other  as  their  butty. 

Mr.  W.  H.  Duignan,  of  WalaalJ,  an  authority 
on  such  points,  thinks  the  root  of  the  word 
butty  is  Anglo-Saxon  {bot,  boot),  the  original 
meaning  of  which  was  profit,  advantage.  The 
root  is  found  in  sucn  words  as  hedgebote^ 
housebote,  Jlrebote,    The  word  bot  has  grown 


52 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9-»s.viljan.i9,i90l 


in  meaning  ^.nd  application,  e.g.^  booty, 
bootless. 

In  ironworks,  where  two  men  freauently 
manage  a  forge,  one  superintending  by  day 
and  the  other  by  night,  each  often  describes 
the  other  as  his  fmtti/. 

In  the  same  Black  Country  district  there 
is  one  rather  curious  use  of  the  expression 
butty,  A  man  and  woman  living  together 
irregularly  sometimes  describe  each  otner  as 
his  or  her  butty,  and  other  people  would  so 
describe  such  relations.      C.  T.  Saunders. 

Birmingham. 

"To  PALMER"  (9"»  S.  vi.  470).— Edie  OchU- 
tree,  returning  from  his  impressive  inter- 
view with  Lord  Glenallan  (*  The  Antiquary,' 
chap,  xxix.),  suddenly  encounters  a  group  of 
eager  peasantry  engaged  in  characteristic 
sports,  and  the  scene  recalls  his  earlier  days  : 

"The  shout,  the  lauf^h,  the  exclamations  of 
winners  and  losers,  came  in  blended  chorus  up  the 
path  which  Ochiltree  was  descending,  and  awakened 
m  his  recollection  the  days  when  he  himself  had 
been  a  keen  competitor,  and  frequently  victor,  in 

Smes  of  strength  and  agility *At  that  time  of 
.y/  was  his  natural  reflection.  *I  would  have 
thought  as  little  about  ony  auld  paimering  body  that 
was  coming  down  the  edge  of  Kinblythemont  as  ony 
o'  thae  stalwart  young  chiels  does  e'enow  about 
auld  Edie  Ochiltree." 

Derived,  no  doubt,  from  the  "  palmer."  whose 
professional  devotion  took  him  to  the  Holy 
Land  and  made  of  him  a  revered  wanderer 
on  his  return,  the  word  was  applied  to 
vagrants,  whose  movements  were  aimless 
except  in  so  far  as  they  might  secure  means 
of  subsistence.  Walking  aimlessly,  infirmlv, 
clumsily,  are  all  notions  readily  deducible 
from  this  source.  Thomas  Bayne. 

To  palmer--i,e.^  to  go  about  feebly,  like  an 
old  palmer— is  duly  explained  in  Jamieson, 
with  a  quotation  from  Scott's  'Antiquary.' 
It  has  no  analogy  with  munter,  for  there 
is  no  such  substantive  as  saunter ;  and  even 
if  there  were,  it  would  not  mean  the  Holy 
Land,  but  a  person.  Compare  pcUmer-worm^ 
Joel  i.  4.  Walter  W.  Skeat. 

The  term  is  packed  with  interest  to  the 
student.  Setting  aside  the  '*  palmare,  or 
pylgry  me  "—which  the  *Promptorium  Parvu- 
lorum'  gives  as  **peregrinu8  et  peregrina;," 
used  in  contradistinction  to  the  Roman  civisy 
and  forming  an  earlier  parallel  to  our  Middle 
Age  '*  denizen,"  when  the  word  meant  one 
who  was  not  a  native  —  as  antedating  the 
meaning,  but  not  the  derivation  required, 
and  passing  by  the  question  as  to  whether 
the  palmer  was  so  called  because  '*palm" 
meant  cross  or  because  it  meant  staff  (Ualli- 


well  asserts  the  former),  one  finds  from 
Jamieson  that  "  To  pawmer  "  =  "  to  go  from 
place  to  place  in  an  idle,  aimless  way?^  This 
phase  of  meaning  is  said  to  owe  its  origin  to 
the  time  when  pilgrimages  had  fallen  into 
contempt,  and,  whether  the  "  palmer  "  used  a 
Pahm-ted  (Ger.)  or  no,  it  is  certain  that,  being 
a  wandrirufnuin,  he  used  a  staff.  One  may 
take  one's  choice  of  the  contu$,  feruUiy  or 
fustis,  but  so  long  as  the  use  of  a  staff  be 
necessary,  then  one  may  infer  that  the  user 
walks  infirmly  ;  and,  of  course,  "  to  palmer  in 
bauchles  "  (old  shoes,  or  even  with  lumps  of 
snow  under  the  feet)  intensifies  the  condition. 
A  study  of  the  staffs  depicted  in  the 
National  Gallery  will  repay  observation,  and 
one  knows  the  stage's  traditional  method 
of  portraying  the  bent  form  and  shambling 
gait  of  the  pilgrim.  Arthur  Mayall. 

Duke  of  Bolton's  Regiment  (9**»  S.  vL 
508).— This  regiment  was  probably  levied  by 
Charles  Powlett,  Marquis  of  Winchester, 
created  Duke  of  Bolton  by  William  IIL  in 
1689.  In  a  communication  printed  in  *N.  &  Q.,' 
2"'*  S.  i.  68,  is  a  letter  dated  11  JuncL  1696, 
concerning  the  capture  in  Romney  Marsh 
of  the  unfortunate  Sir  John  Fen  wick,  in 
which  it  is  said  :  "  Here  is  now  in  towne  one 
Ensigne  Scroop,  belonging  to  the  Duke  of 
Bolton's  regiment  of  foot,  who  says  he  thinks 
verily  'tis  S'  John  Fenwick  that  is  here." 

The  duke  had  married  the  illegitimate 
daughter  of  Emanuel  Scrope,  Earl  of  Sun- 
derland, and  was  one  of  the  staunchest  sup- 
porters of  William  III.  It  was  a  usual  thing 
to  name  the  regiment-s  in  those  days  after 
those  who  had  raised  them.  For  instances 
the  Royal  Horse  Guards  (Blue)  were  called 
the  Oxford  Blues,  and  sometimes  Lord  Ox- 
ford's Horse,  raised  by  Aubrey  de  Vere,  the 
twentieth  and  last  Earl  of  Oxford,  who  com- 
manded the  regiment  at  the  battle  of  the 
Boyne  in  1690.  John  Pickford,  M.A. 

Newbourne  Rectory,  WoodbridKe. 

Pall-mall  and  Golf  (9**»  S.  vi.  444).— 
There  is  but  one  authoritative  book  on  pall- 
mall,  *  Lo  Jeu  de  Mail,'  by  Joseph  Lautnier 
(Paris,  1717).  It  is  very  rare.  Dr.  R.  C.  A. 
Prior  abridged  it  in  his  *  Notes  on  Croquet ' 
(Williams  &  Norgate),  1872  ;  but  "  the  trans- 
lation seems  inaccurate  and  is,  in  places,  un- 
intelligible." At  least,  so  said  Mr.  A.  Lang  (IX 
some  years  ago,  in  a  morning  paper.  There 
is  no  resemblance  in  that  game  to  cricket, 
extremely  littlo  to  croquet,  and  less  to 
golf.  FdHa-cordfi,  or  (more  properly)  the 
giuoco  delta  corda^  is  first  described,  in  his 
I  *  Trattato  del  Giuoco  della  Palla,'  by  Antonio 
^  Scaino  da  Sal6,  Yinegia,  mdly^  and  has  been 


»*8.viljak.i9,19oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


53 


treated  again  and  again  by  various  hands, 
down  to  my  own  in  my  'Annals  of  Tennis.' 
4tOi  1878.  This  game,  in  fact,  is  simply 
tennis  {not  lawn -tennis).  I  find,  however, 
nothing  ahont  pcUla-gpagata  in  Scaino's  book, 
nor  do  I  remember  meeting  with  the  name 
befora  I  should  be  ^lad  to  see  a  good  ex- 
planation of  it,  if  any  is  to  be  had.  It  may 
oe^  a  modem  variant.  I  would,  however, 
raise  a  humble  protest  against  "  a  connected 
account "  of  any  of  these  games  being  pub- 
lished in  the  restricted  space  available  in 
•N.  &  Q.,'  which  might  easily  be  filled  for 
lome  months  to  come  oy  such  a  publication. 
JuuAN  Mabshall. 

Daisy  Names  (9"»  S.  vii.  8).  — Mr.  Prior 
C  Popular  Names  of  British  Plants,'  p.  57) 
BOggests  that  crazt/  or  craisey  is  a  corruption 
otChrUt's  eyey  but  he  gives  it  as  a  Wiltshire 
name  for  the  buttercup.  Scientifically,  this 
has  been  appropriated  for  an  exotic  species 
of  inole  (Inula  oculus  Christi)^  and  doubtless, 
like  other  popular  names,  is  loosely  applied 
to  various  wild  flowers.  There  has  always 
been  an  uncertainty  in  our  floral  nomencla- 
ture; thus  in  the  eighteenth  century  what 
we  know  as  forget-me-not  was  called  scorpion- 
grass  and  mouse-ear,  one  of  the  bugles  being 
known  as  forget-me-not  because  of  its  bitter 
taste.  Our  heartsease  has  filched  its  name 
from  the  wallflower,  which  long  ago  earned 
its  older  title  because  of  its  cordial  properties ; 
and  apparently  Linnseus  did  not  detect  the 
theft^  oecausehe  applied  the  mediseval  Latin 
name  of  the  wallflower,  viola^  to  the  race  of 
pansies.  Apparently  in  classical  times  viola 
denoted  both  violets  and  wallflowers. 

Since  writing  the  above  I  happened  to  read 
the  following,  a  case  in  point,  m  the  current 
number  of  the  Oai-deneri  Chronicle : — 

"  Bermada  Buttercup.— -An  inqoiry  was  recently 
made  as  to  the  correct  name  of  this  i^ant.  We  find 
from  a  communication  to  the  Journal  of  Horti- 
culhtrt  that  a  variety  of  Oxalis  is  so  called.  Pre- 
daely—not  a  Buttercap,  and  having  nothing  to  do 
with  Bermuda.  No  wonder  people  like  popular 
names  I" 

Herbert  Maxwell. 

Ten  Commandments  in  Rime  (9"»  S.  vi. 
460X~The  following  version  was  copied  from 
the  rosters  of  the  parish  of  Laneham,  Notts, 
in  April,  1852.  It  is  signed  "  Richard  Chris- 
tian, 1689'';  he  was  vicar  at  that  time.  It 
appeared  in  *  N.  &  Q.,'  !•*  S.  v.  607  :— 

ELave  thou  no  other  Gods  Butt  me. 
Unto  no  Image  bow  thy  knee 
Take  not  the  name  of  God  in  vain 
Doe  not  thy  Sabboth  day  profaine 
Honour  thy  &ther  and  Mother  too 
And  see  y*  thou  no  murder  doo 
ffipooi  vile  Adnltry  keep  the  oleane 


And  Steale  not  tho  thy  state  be  meane 
Bear  no  ffiilse  Witness,  shun  y^  Blott 
What  is  thy  neighbour's  Couet  not. 
Whrite  these  thy  Laws  Lord  in  my  heart 
And  Lett  me  not  frorti  them  depart. 

EVERARD  Home  COLEliAN. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

The  following  might  possibly  interest 
F.  R.  P.,  who  asked  for  information  about 
the  Ten  Commandments  :— 

"  An  old  English  Version  of  the  Lord's  Prayer, 
made  b^  Pope  Adrian,  an  Englishman,  about  the 
year  1156,  to  oe  learnt  by  the  younger  people. 

Ure  fadyr  in  heaven  rich 

Thy  name  be  halyed  ever  lich 

Thou  bring  us  thy  miohel  blisc 

Als  bit  in  heaven  y  doe 

Evead  in  yearth  been  it  alsoe 

That  holy  breade  that  lasteth  ay 

Thou  send  us  this,  ilke  day 

Forgive  us  all  that  we  have  done. 

As  we  forgive  each  other  on 

Ne  let  us  tall  into  no  founding 

But  sheld  ous  from  the  foule  thing.    Amen." 
Christian  Ma^zine^  1761. 

A.  J.  Kino. 

One  of  Dr.  Isaac  Watts's  *  Divine  Songs.* 

H.  E.  M. 
St.  Petersburg. 

"  Frabbed  "  (9"»  S.  vi.  ArtO).—Frab,  to  worry, 
harass,  is  given  in  the  *H.E.D.'  Frab.  to 
struggle,  fight,  argue,  contend,  worry,  fret 
fidget,  irritate,  excite,  is  given  in  the  *  E.D.D.' 
Hence  it  is  doubly  a  "  dictionary  word."  I 
also  find  it  in  the  'Century  Dictionary'  and 
in  Webster.  But  in  the  present  instance  it 
looks  as  if  the  gentleman  might  just  as  well 
have  said  *' rubbed."  Perhaps  he  combined 
this  with  "fretted."       Walter  W.  Skeat. 

'Paddle  your  own  Canoe'  (9"»  S.  vi, 
450). — This  song  was  written  and  sung  by 
Harry  Clifton,  music  arranged  by  M.  Hobson, 
and  was  very  popular  about  thirty-four  years 
ago.  It  lies  before  me.  The  words  of  the  first 
four  lines  are  accurately  quoted  by  Mr.  John 
T.  Page.  The  remainder  of  the  first  verse  is  : 
My  wants  are  small,  I  care  not  at  all 

if  my  debts  are  paid  when  due  ; 
I  drive  away  strife  in  the  ocean  of  life 
While  I  paddle  my  own  canoe. 

There  are  five  verses  in  all,  and  the  chorus 
is:— 

Then  love  your  neighbour  as  yourself 

As  the  world  you  go  travelling  through  ; 
And  never  sit  down  with  a  tear  or  a  frown, 
But  paddle  your  own  canoe. 

There  is  another  song  by  the  same  author 
which  was  equally  popular  about  the  period 
named,  entitled  *  Work,  Boys,  Work.*  One  of 
the  verses  I  venture  to  quote :— 


54 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9»8.vn.jAK.i9.uiOL 


PiscoQtaqtdd  people  s^y  aU  work  s^r\(\  lltt^o  play 

Will  make  a  l^qy  a  l^loplf  head  as  a  rule  ; 
You  can  answer  them,  and  say,  never  work  and 
always  play 
Will  make  him  both  a  blockhead  and  a  fooL 

Alfred  Chas.  Jonas. 

The  original  words  of  the  song  may  be  seen 
in  Harper's  Magazine  for  1854.    Each  verse 
winds  up  with  the  line  as  above,  whence  it 
became  a  popular  saying  :— 
Voyager  upon  life's  sea, 

To  yourself  be  true, 
And  whate'er  your  lot  may  bo, 
Paddle  your  own  canoe. 

J.  HOLDBN  MacMiCHAIL. 

Naunton  Family  (9"»  S.  vi.  508).— For  the 
articles  respecting  this  family  which  have 
appeared  in  *  N.  &  Q.*  see  4***  S.  iii.  456 ;  v. 
353  ;  8"»  S.  vi.  408  ;  ix.  287. 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Worcestershire  Folk-lore  (9^  S.  vi.  410, 
490).— I  can  ^ive  a  similar  instance  from  India. 
Soon  after  Sir  John  Lawrence  arrived  at  CaJ- 
cutta  as  Viceroy,  he  used  every  now  and  then 
to  receive  from  the  chief  town  of  the  district 
where  I  was  magistrate  letters  containing 
scraps  of  paper  charred  to  tinder.  He  sent 
them  to  me  to  know  what  they  meant.  They 
were  as  new  to  me  as  to  him,  but  after  some 
confidential  inquiries  I  discovered  that  such 
missives— as  might  be  expected — implied  any- 
thing but  a  benediction.  A.  D.  C. 

William  Morris  as  a  Man  of  Business 
(9">  S.  vi.  406,  495).— Mr.  Wardle  has  not 
succeeded  in  resolving  mjr  puzzle.  There 
ai'e  details  and  details,  and  it  does  not  follow 
that  neglect  of  detail  is  one  of  the  secrets  of 
success  because  some  men  of  pre-eminent 
ability  have  succeeded  in  spite  of  their  neglect 
of  certain  comparatively  small  matters  which 
might  have  engrossed  too  much  of  the  atten- 
tion of  smaller  minds  than  theirs.  We  have, 
however,  heard  of  horses  being  lost  for  want 
of  a  nail,  and  of  armies  being  crippled  for 
want  of  boots.  But  Mr.  Mackail  was  speaking 
of  Morris  purely  as  a  man  of  business—in 
fact  (in  Mr.Wardle's  wordd)as  the  "organizer 
of  a  great  manufacturing  industry."  And 
amons  the  details  he  had  in  mind  it  is  clear 
that  Dookkeepirjx  and  accounts  generally 
were  included.  To  say  that  Morris  succeeded 
in  business  because  he  neglected  these  is,  U> 
speak  plainlv,  ridiculous.  Mr.  Breslar's 
remarks  on  this  subject  are  very  much  to  the 
point.  Details  must  necessarily  \\e  left  to 
chance  on  special  occasions  of  great  urgency, 
but  habitual  neglect  of  them,  in  business  at 
any  rate,  usually  spells  ruin.    Qenius  may 


IMMsibly  supceed  in  defiance  of  this  rula  but 
genius  itself  h^-s  been  defin0d  ^  an  innnito 
capacity  for  taking  pains.  C  G-  B. 

"Neglect  of  detail  is  one  of  the  secrets  of 
success."  This  thought  mav  have  been  sug- 
gested by  a  maxim  of  Rochefoucauld  :  **  Ceux 
qui  s'appliquent  trop  aux  petites  choses 
deviennent  ordinairement  incapables  des 
grandes."  I  doubt  whether  the  French  maxim, 
or  its  English  echo,  is  true.  Rochefoucauld, 
however,  in  using  the  word  ordtnairemefU^ 
allows  that  there  may  be  exceptions.  Napoleon 
Bonaparte  was  one  of  the  most  successful  and 
greatest  of  men,  yet  he  was  remarkable  for 
his  application  to  little  things  and  his  care  of 
detail.  E.  Yardley. 

The  late  Canon  Liddon  in  one  of  his  sermoni 
said  that  only  a  small  mind  thought  disr^ard 
of  details  the  mark  of  a  large  one.  Dean 
Swift  asked  :— 

Wrapt  up  in  Majesty  Divine, 
Does  God  regard  oo  what  we  dine  ? 
So  the  foolish  man  in  Job  (Vulgate)  xxiL  14 : 

Nubes  latibulum  Ejus,  nee  nostra  considerat. 
Compare  St.  Matthew  x.  29,  30.      W.  C.  B. 

DuTTON  Family  (9"»  S.  vi.  409,  617).— With 
regard  to  Lord  Sherborne's  suggestion  that 
the  Duttons  used  the  fret  on  their  coat  of 
arms  prior  to  the  battle  of  Poictiers  (1356X  I 
beg  to  quote  the  following  from  the  *  Complete 
History  of  England,'  vol.  i.  p.  226  :— 

**  But  the  most  remarkableiinstauce  of  honour  and 
valour  was  the  Lord  James  Audley,  who,  having 
vowed  to  be  foremost  in  the  battle,  performed  his 
word  and  confirmed  it  with  nianv  wounds,  for 
which  the  Prince  having  rewarded  him  with  600 
marks  a  year  fee  simple  in  England,  he  presently 
gave  it  to  four  of  his  esquires  who  had  undergone 
the  same  dangers  with  him.  The  Prince,  knowing 
it,  asked  him  whether  he  did  not  accent  his  gift. 
He  answered,  Yes,  but  those  men  had  deserved  it 
as  well  as  himself  and  had  more  need  of  it.  The 
Prince  was  pleased  with  his  reply  and  gave  him  500 
marks  more,  as  if  he  was  resolved  that  so  much 
worth  sliould  not  go  unrewarded." 
And  my  Lord  Audley  (says  Dr.  Gower),  as  a 
further  and  perpetual  memorial  of  their  merit, 
enjoined  them  to  bear  on  some  part  of  their 
coat  of  arms  his  own  proper  achievement, 
Qulcs,  a  fret  or,  which  honourable  distinction 
has  lien  constantly  observed  by  these  four 
distinguished  familias— viz.,  Dutton  of  Dut- 
ton,  Delves,  Foulhurst.  and  Hawkestone.  Dr. 
Gower  also  observes  that  it  was  owing  prin- 
cipally to  the  valour  of  these  illustrious 
warriors  that  Edward  the  Black  Prince,  Earl 
of  Chester,  gained  the  immortal  battle  of 
Poictiers. 

There  was  at  Doddington  in  Cheshire,  in 


»*8.viLjAir.i9.i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


55 


1770^  a  group  of  statues  as  large  as  life  repre- 
senting Lord  Audley  and  these  four  cele- 
bratea  warriors.  I  cannot  recall  where  I  read 
that  the  Button  who  distinguished  himself  at 
Poictiers  was  Sir  Hugh  Dutton,  but  ho  must, 
I  think,  have  been  either  a  son  or  a  nephew  of 
the  Sir  Thomas  Dutton  referred  to  by  Lord 
Sherborne.  Sir  Thomas  was  born  in  1314 
and  died  in  1381.  He  had  six  sons—viz.,  Peter, 
Thomas,  Lawrence,  Edmund,  Henry,  and 
William — the  first  three  of  whom  died  s.p. ; 
and  Edmund  was  the  ancestor  of  the  present 
Lord  Sherborne's  and  many  other  illustrious 
families.  The  present  representative  of  the 
Dutton  family  is  my  cousin,  John  Rowe 
Dutton,  of  Chester,  born  1881,  who,  according 
to  the  pedigree  in  my  possession,  is  twenty- 
eighth  in  direct  lineal  descent  from  Hollo,  and 
heir  male  of  Odard  (or  Huddard),  Lord  of 
Dutton,  who  came  to  England  with  William 
tlie  Conqueror.  Charles  Stewart. 

22,  Glouceet^r  Road,  Stoke  Newington,  N. 

Margaret  of  Bavaria  (9"»  S.  vi.  369,  453, 
495). — A  memorandum  in  my  copy  of  Ander- 
son's *  Royal  Genealogies '  (1736),  which  some 
former  owner  has  annotated,  may  interest 
Megan.  Over  against  Margaret's  death, 
19  April,  1483  (Table  384),  is  written  "  let.  23," 
but  DO  authority  for  the  statement  is  in- 
dicated. If  correct,  it  would  yield  1459  or 
1460  as  her  birth-year,  which  is  not  incon- 
sistent with  other  dates  given  in  *  L'Art  de 
Verifier.'  Thus,  although  Margaret  would 
be  but  a  child  at  the  time  of  her  marriage, 
6  January,  1472,  N.S.,  the  birth  of  Louise,  the 
eldest  of  her  children,  11  September,  1476, 
would  not  be  remarkable.  Cnild- marriages 
were  common  enough,  and  this  Louise  was 
early  married  and  early  a  mother.  She  was 
contracted  to  Charles  of  Orleans  16  February, 
1487, 0.S.,  and  their  eldest  child  Margaret  was 
bom  in  1491  (Anderson),  when  Louise  was,  at 
most^  little  more  than  fifteen— the  age  of  the 
widow-mother  of  our  Henry  "VTI. 

C.  S.  Ward. 
Wootton  St.  Lawrence,  Basingstoke. 

"Trunk"  or  '/Box"  (9t»»  S.  vi.  503).-My 
experience  as  a  little  boy  going  to  board ing- 
iichool  for  the  first  time  by  no  means  confirms 
the  correspondents  who  think  that  these 
names  are  synonymous.  At  that  woeful  hour 
I  was  accompanied  by  a  large  trunk  covered 
with  cowhiae  having  the  hair  outside,  and 
filled  with  underclothing  and  similar  matters. 
This  was  called  a  **  hair-trunk,"  and  considered 
more  or  less  sacred  to  myself  and  the  nurse  of 
that  group  of  the  boys  to  which  I  belonged. 
I  had  likewise  what  was  named  a  **  box  ^  or 
*"  pUybofXt*  of  which  I  had  the  key,  and  which 


my  mother  had  filled  with  toys,  play-books, 
fruit,  new-laid  eggs,  and  cakes.  Immediately 
on  my  arrival  the  difference  in  my  accom- 
paniments and  the  turpitude  of  big  -  boy 
nature  were  borne  in  upon  me  in  a  manner 
which  is  indelible :  my  "  hair-trunk "  was 
respected,  but  of  my  "box"  the  key  was 
captured  in  a  twinkling,  my  cakes  ancf  other 
delicacies  were  eater),  my  oranges  were  peeled, 
and  my  eggs  (without  the  ceremony  or  cook- 
ing) were  sucked  before  my  eyes.  Only  one 
egg  and  the  shells  of  the  others  were  left  for 
me.  Both  **  trunk  "  and  "  box  "are  still  in  my 
possession,  and  everybody  known  tome  recog- 
nizes the  difference  implied  by  their  respective 
names :  so  that  while  every  trunk  made  of 
wood,  but  not  otherwise,  is  a  box,  it  is  by  no 
means  right  to  call  every  box  a  trunk.     O. 

Waller  (9^  S.  iii.  165, 352 ;  iv.  11,  57, 97).— 
At  9"*  S.  iv.  11,  in  reference  to  a  misapprehen- 
sion of  Dr.  Johnson's  as  to  Waller's  meaning, 
I  ventured  to  maintain  that  "the  centre, 
both  in  the  lines  quoted  and  in  certain  pas- 
sages of  other  poets,  means  not  the  centre 
of  the  earth,  but  the  earth  itself,  con- 
sidered in  the  old  astronomy  as  the  centre  of 
the  universe.  I  am  glad  to  find  this  interpre- 
tation confirmed  by  Prof.  Masson  in  a  note 
(which  I  had  not  seen  when  I  wrote  my 
explanation)  on  Milton's  *  P.  L.,'  i.  686 : 
" '  Kansacked  the  centre.'  The  centre  or  in- 
terior of  the  earth,  say  the  commentators 
unanimously.  Not  so.  Centre  here  is  the 
earth  itself  as  a  whole,  not  its  interior  merely. 
In  old  literature  the  earth,  as  the  supposed 
centre  of  the  universe,  was  frequently  called 
*the  centre*  par  excellence."  Reference  is 
made,  in  illustration,  to  *  Troilus  and  Cressida,' 
I.  iii.,  one  of  the  passages  ouoted  in  my  note 
on  Waller,  as  an  example  ox  this  usage. 

C.  Lawrence  Ford,  B.A. 
Bath. 

"Gone  to  Jericho  "  (9"»  S.  vi.  405).— The 
suggested  explanation  of  this  familiar  phrase, 
as  quoted  from  the  Property  Market  Review 
by  your  correspondent,  had  already  appeared 
in  Brewer's  *  Diet,  of  Phrase  and  Fable,'  1895, 
together  with  another  explanation,  a  trifle 
more  plausible,  based  upon  2  Sara.  x.  5  and 
1  Chron.  xix.  5.  These  would-be  expositions, 
as  well  as  the  (almost  trivial)  one  put  forward 
in  Chatto  &  Windus's  *  Slang  Dictionarv,' 
1874,  appear  to  me  to  be  "all  abroad."  The 
expletive  "  Go  to  [not  Gone  to]  Jericho  !"  has 
always  been  useci  as  a  mild  form  of  "Go  to 

! "  a  place  said  to  be  paved  with  good 

intentions.  There  are  many  persons  who  are 
ashamed  to  "go  the  whole  hog"  in  respect 
of  using  bad  language,  who  yet  indulge  in 


56 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*  s.  vn.  jak.  19.  iwl 


what  one  may  call  "'milk-and-water"  exple- 
tives, which  mean  the  same  things  but  do  not 
sound  quite  ao  bad.  If  1  mij^bt  be  ao  bold, 
I  would  aubmit  that  the  vulgar  expletive 
"  Go  to  Jericho ! "  (a  aaying  which  probspbly 
had  its  birth  in  pre-Reformtttion  times)  was 
baaed  upon  the  parable  of  the  Good  Sama- 
ritan ;— 

"A  certain  man  went  down  from  Jeruaalem  to 
Jerictiu,  and  foU  among  thiev^^,  which  stripped  htm 
of  his  raiment,"  &c.-^Luk€  x,  30* 

Here  we  have  a  angles tive  description  of  a 
very  dangerous  locality,  to  which  (in  default 
of  a  worse)  spiteful  peraona  might  wtah  an 
antagonist  tem|K>rarvly  deported.    About  the 
time  of  the  Crimean  War  a  highly  popular 
expletive  waa  "  Go  to  Berraondsey ! '     This 
diatrict  was  then,  perhaps  even   more  than 
BOW,  a  noted  resort  of  extremely  bad  cha- 
racters, and  thus  formed  a  mild  substitute 
for  a  warmer  if  more  permanent  residence 
for  one's  enemy  "later  on,"    I  do  not  know 
if  this  phrase  is  still  in  vogue,  but  I  think  it 
has  bad  its  day.    T  often  fancied  it  was  a 
happy  thought  which  entered  the  mind  of 
George   Augustus  Sala^   who   exploibed   the 
expression  so  far  as  to  introduce  it  in  one  of 
the  tale^s  told  by  the  *  Seven  Poor  Traveller  ft,* 
beitig  the   Christmas  number  of  Hmimkold 
Words,  1854 ;  and  so  it  got  into  the  pantomimes 
of  that  date.    Many  or  our  proverbial  phrases 
are,  I  believe,  baaed  upon  a  Biblical  origin  ; 
as,  for   example,    T   have    alwaTs    thought 
**  Qone  to  the  dogs  "  was  a  sort  of  allusion  to 
the  sad  fate  of  Jezebel,  though  it  may  have 
referred  rather   to    the   story   of    Lazarus. 
Thet*e  used  to  be  a  little  witticism  perpe- 
trated by  the  "slangy"  newspapers  about 
sixty  yeara  ago :  "  The  King  of  Prusaia  has 
gone  to  Pot(adam)."   Perhaps  in  time  to  come 
this  may  be  quoted  as  being  the  origin  of  the 
expression    "  Gone    to   pot."     It    would    be 
interesting  to  search  out  some  very  early  use, 
in  old  plays  or  poetry,  of  "  Go  to  Jericho  !" 
Herbert  B.  Clayton. 
39,  Renfrew  Road,  Lower  Kennington  Lpane, 

The  alleged  origin  of  the  saying  "Gone  to 

Jericho,"  aa  quoted  by  your  corresywndent 
from  the  Pro/)ertt/  Market  J^eviciv  of 
29  September,  1^00,  has  long  been  familiar 
to  me  in  Morant's  *  Essex '  and  the  *  Ambu- 
lator.' In  the  fifth  0  793)  edition  of  the  latter 
work,  p.  41,  we  find  the  following  : — 

"  Black more^  a  village  in  Eartex,  between  Oogar 
and  tngatestono, eevon  miles  from  Chelmsford.  An 
aocicjnt  Priory  atood  near  the  church.  *It  is 
reported,  sava  Morant,  '  to  have  been  one  of  Kinp 
Henry  the  Eighths  pleasure  houaea,  and  dia^^uised 
by  the  name  of  Jerieho  ;  »o  that  when  thU  laaoivioua 
prinee  had  a  mind  to  repair  to  hia  courteseanfli  the 
Q%ot  wor4  amoiq^  hi«  courtiers  wa^i  that  hfi  waa 


fnn&  to  Jericho.'  Here  was  born  hia  natural  eon 
Itjnrv  FiLzrov,  Duke  of  Richmotid  and  Someriet, 
and  itarl  of  Nottingham,  the  friend  and  eonipanion 
of  the  gallant  and  accomplished  Earl  of  Surry » 
whose  poetry  makes  anch  a  dietmguJBhed  %ure  in 
the  literature  of  the  16th  century.  Thia  ancient 
atructnre  waa  repaired,  and  ackmo  additiona  made 
to  it.  about  70  ¥ears  ago  [i.c^  <^iTta  1723],  by  Sir 
Jacob  Ackworth,  Batt.,  whose  daupchter,  lady 
Wheate,  sold  it  to  the  present  f=  1793]  posaesaort 
Richard  Preston,  Esq.  The  river  Can,  which  partly 
surround  a  the  garden » ia  still  [1793J  called  here  tfU 
Rii^T  Jordan.^* 

The  real  origin  of  the  saying,  which  is, 
however,  rather  "Go  to  Jericho  J"  we  must 
I  think*  attribute  to  the  parable  of  the  Good 
Samaritan  in  the  New  Testament,  Indeed, 
I  have  sometimes  heard  it  as  "Go  to 
Jericho  and  fall  among  thieves  !  " 

Hotten'B  *  Slang  Dictionary,*  to  which  your 
correspondent  refers,  gives  **  Jericho  *'  as  the 
name  of  "an  improper  quarter  of  Oxford." 

W,LR.Y. 


The  phrase  "Qone  to  Jericho"  bears  the 
meaning  rather  of  consignment  to  perditioa 
or  penal  exile  than  of  deportation  to  a  plea- 
sure house,  such  as  the  Jericho  of  Henry  VIIL 
was,  albeit  the  phrase  may  have  been  sug- 
gested to  that  monarch's  courtiers  by  the 
original  allusion  to  Jericho  in  2  Sam,  x,  5 : 
"And  the  king  said,  Tarry  at  Jericho  until 
your  beards  be  grown,  and  then  return,** 
whence  it  became  a  proverbiaJ  saying  **to 
stay  (or  tarry)  in  Jencho  (until  one^s  beard 
is  grown)"  — I.e.,  to  wait  in  retirement  or 
obscurity  until  one  grows  wiser  :— 
Who  would,  to  curbe  Buch  insolence^  I  know. 
Bid  Kuch  young  boyes  to  stay  in  Jericho 
Until  their  boarda  were  grown,  their witJi  more  staid. 
Heywood,  'Hierarchies  iv.  208. 

Hall i well  does  not  cite  an  instance  of  the 
phrase,  but  says  "  Jericho,  a  prison.    Menoe 
the  phrase  to  wish  a  person  in  Jericho," 
Let  them  all  goe  to  Jericho, 
And  n'ere  he  seen  of^ine. 
Mercuriws  AtUit^Uit,  1648,  quoted  in  the 

Athenmtm  of  U  Nov.,  1874,  p.  645, 

J,  H OLDEN   MacMiCHAEL. 
Wimbledon  Park  Eoad, 

If  Mb.  March  am  can  obtain  from  the 
writer  in  the  Propertjf  Market  Meview  evi- 
dence that  will  hejir  out  his  extremely  novd 
theory,  I  have  no  doubt  Dk.  Mctreay  will  be 
delighted  to  see  it.  Pending  the  production 
of  such  proof,  we  may  be  content  with  what 
has  already  been  written  in  *  N*  &  Q^ 
7"^  S.  ix.  343,  394.  Q.  V. 

John  Pearson  (9«*  S.  vi,  446,  51&).— If  I 
had  troisted  to  recollection.  I  should  not  have 
made  Pearson  Bishop  of  Chester  in  1662.  I 
copied  mechanically  from  the  liat  of  Maiigaiiet 


9*  8.  vn.  Jan.  19, 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


67 


professors  in  the  appendix  (p.  17)  to 
Hustler's  'Qradnati  Cantahrigie  rises/  1823. 
Id  the  same  appendix  (p.  12)  Pearson  ia  made 
Bishop  of  Chichester  (instead  of  Cheater)  in 
1672  (t>.,  167i/3),  I  am  glad  that  I  have  thus 
unintentionaUy  been  driven  to  point  out 
the  need  of  a  thoronghly  revised  and  com- 
plete  edition  of  our  lists  of  Cambridge 
grsdnateg.  Our  present  list«  bei^in  with  1659 
and  end  with  1884,  and  are  very  carelessly 
compiled,  at  least  as  far  a^  the  seventeenth 
century  goes,  I  may  notice  that  W.  L.  Manael 
for  twelve  years  neld  the  mastership  of 
Trinity  with  a  bi^hopde. 

John  K  B.  Mayor. 

Laitguage  to  conceal  Thought  (9^  S.  vi 
388v  432,  476),— It  is  diificalt  to  name  with 
absolute  certainty  the  writer  who,  in  modern 
times  at  least,  first  made  use  of  this  phrase, 
which  is  worthy  of  ^[achiavelli  and  reminds 
Hi  of  Sir  Henry  Wotton's  definition  of  an 
Ambai^sador,  "  Legatus  est  vir  bonus  peregrt^ 
missus  ad  mentiendum  Reiptiblicfe  cau.s§/'  as 
we  6nd  it  in  Izaac  Walton's  sketch  of  the 
knight    The  biographer  gives  the  following 
translatioE:   "An  Ambassador  is  an  honest 
man,  sent  to  lie  abroad  for  the  good  of  his 
Country »"  and  adds,  "  But  the  word  for  lift 
(being  the  hinge  upon  which  the  Conceit  was 
to  turn)  was  not  so  exprest  in  Latine,  fm 
would  admit  (in  the  hands  of  an  Enemy  e.spe- 
cially)  so  fair  a  construction  aa  Sir  Henry 
thought  in  English/*    But  eight  years  after- 
wards **  Jasper  Scioppius,  a  Romanist,  a  man 
of  a   r^tless  spirit^  and  a  malicious  Pen," 
comiog  across  the  sentence  and  taking  the 
words  aa  they  were  written,  ma<le  some  bitt<*r 
remarks  a^mst  th^  king  and  his  amba.'^ador, 
who  was  then  at  Venice,    James  was  very 
angry  with  Sir  Henry,  and  the  latter  hacj 
much  ado  in   regaining    the    royal   favour, 
which   he  only  accomplished  after  writing 
two  apologies^   one  in  the  "universal  lan- 

fuage  and  another  in  the  vernacular,  ad- 
re^ed  to  King  James,  It  seems  rather  hard, 
bovever«  on  Scioppius  to  blame  him  for  failing 
to  see  that  there  was  a  play  upon  words  in 
tfie  English  translation  oc  the  Latin  sentence. 
From  one  ambassador  let  us  turn  to  another. 
That  the  phrase  is  now  so  well  known  is  to 
be  attributed  to  Talleyrand,  who  became  ac- 
quainted with  it  as  follows.  "  I  learn,"  says 
For-Hter  (*  Goldsmith,*  book  iii*  chap.  i.  note), 

''from  the  valuable  and  well-conducted  Nt^e^  and 
Oiieriet  (L  83)  the  ctirious  fact,  that  foor  vears  nfter 
toM  mnark  had  thuft  been  mad«  Hy  Gomsmith,  it 
w»»  npeated  fay  Voltaire  (from  wKniti,  no  doubt , 
lkll«7iwid  alterwarda  Blob  it)  in  Mb  satiric  little 
dialiMe  of  *Le  Chapon  et  la  Pouturde'  ('  il^^uvre^ 
QnipUlHi'  ipd^  £9, 8f^  ed.  |S2a},  whera  the  eapoO| 


complaininK  of  the  treachery  of  men,  sayi,  'Ds 
n'emplojent   lea  paroles  que  pour  d^iser   leun 

This  extract  clearly  shows  whence  the  dip- 
lomatist derived  the  ejcpression  which  he  has 
made  notorious. 

I  have  now  to  make  known  an  interesting 
d i aco very ,  Th e  third  n u  m ber  f>f  Gol d smi th's 
Bets  which  treats  of  the  uae  of  lancfuage  and 
contains  the  phrase  under  discussion,  is  dated 
20  October,  1759,  the  very  year,  strange  to 
say,  in  which  Butler^s  *  Remains*  first  ap- 
peared, as  Mr.  Appersdn  has  infonued  us. 
Hut  what  is  still  more  remarkable,  and  con- 
clusively; shows  whence  Goldsmith  derived 
his  inspiration,  is  the  fact  that  he  had  re- 
viewed this  same  work,  only  four  months 
before,  in  the  Critical  Bevteto  for  1  July,  1759 
fPorster,  book  ii.  chap,  vi.).  It  is  imposf?ible 
Uy  resist  tbB  conviction  that  he  borrowed  the 
idea  from  the  author  he  had  so  recently  been 
studying,  though  Young's  line«  had  been 
published  many  years  before  thi^  date  * 

That  Young  was  indebted  to  Dr.  R.  South 
is  manifest  from  a  passage  quoted  from  one 
of  his  sermons,  the  last  sentence  of  which  is 
this  :— 

**In  abort,  this  aeema  to  be  the  true,  inward 
judgfueot  of  all  our  fx^litick  na^^,  that  stieech  waa 
given  to  the  ordinary  sort  of  men  whereby  to  com- 
munieate  their  mind  ;  but  t<i  wise  men,  whereby  to 
conceal  it," 

**  which  Young,  speaking  of  precisely  the 
same  court  influences^  afterwards  condensed 
into  this  couplet  :— 

When  Nature*s  end  of  language  is  docUDed, 
And  men  talk  only  to  conceal  their  mind/* 
Forstor  (book  iv,  chap,  xiv.)  does  not  mention 
when  this  particular  sermon  wan  delivered. 
According  to  Lowndes,  a  collected  edition  of 
South's  sermons  was  not  publi^ihed  until  1823, 
But  several  of  them  must  have  been  printed 
in  pamphlet  form  soon  after  they  were  de- 
livered, as  waj?  the  fashion  of  the  time,  I 
possess  a  goodly  number  of  such  discourses 
in  two  large  voluraes,  and  very  interesting 
rea^ling  they  afford,  for  they  are,  with  scarcely 
an  exception,  much  more  political  than  re- 
ligious. One  of  them  ia  **  A  Sermon  Preached 
before  the  Queen,  and  both  Houses  of  Parlia- 
ment :  at  the  Cathedral  Church  of  8t  Paul's^ 
Nov.  12,  1702,  Bfling  the  Day  of  Thanks- 
giving/' ckc,  **by  the  Right  Reverend  Father 
in  God  Jonathan,  Lord  Bishop  of  Exeter."  It 
was  "printet^  for  Tho.  Bennet  at  the  Half- 
Moon  in  St.  FauFs  Church-yard,  1702,"  and 


*  In  the  list  of  Golds  mi  tb'a  books  we  find  he  h«d 
"  Young^s  Works,  4  vol.  1762,"  and  "Soutb^a  Ser- 
mons, 4  vol." ;  no  date  given  in  catalogue  of  sale. 
&&6  f ouster. 


58 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*  s.  vil  jak.  19, 1901. 


on  the  last  page  contains  a  list  of  advertiae- 
Tneiit«,  among  which  is  the  following :  "Thirty 
Six  Sernjona  and  Di^course^  upon  several 
Occasions,  by  R.  South,  D.D.  In  three 
volumes,"  As  Young  was  only  about  eighteen 
years  of  age  at  this  date,  it  follows  that  he 
borrowed  not  only  the  idea,  but,  almost  the 
very  words,  from  the  **  noble  preacher  "  men- 
iionod,  to  whom  we  are  therefore  indebted 
for  the  phrase,  hia  use  of  which  is  so  well 
c!x plained  in  his  own  eloquent  language. 

Mr.  F*  Aba  MS,  in  an  excellent  note,  has 
happily  quoted  from  Dionysius  Cato,  but  I 
feel  sure  that  he  will  be  plea.<ied  to  read  the 
following  words  from  St.  Augustine's  *En- 
ehiridion  ad  Lauren tium,'  chap,  xxii,  :— 

"Et  utique  verba  propt^rea  aunt  iustituta,  non 
per  quae  9e  iuvicem  hofiiineB  fallani,  sed  per  qnm 
m  a^tteriua  quiique  notiti&m  cogitationaa  auaa  per- 
ferat" 

JoHK  T.  CURRV. 

OSIGIN    OF    CqREENT    pHEASfiS    (9"*    S.    vL 

486),— I  do  not  know  when  the  title  **  Empress 
of  India  '*  was  first  HUggested,  but  the  wtory 
of  the  official  document  put  forth  by  Sir 
Andrew  Clarke  in  1872  cannot  be  quite  cor- 
rect, for  I  believe  I  am  right  in  saying  that 
in  1872  that  officer  ^^as  not  Governor  of  the 
Btraits  Settle  me  nts*  At  anv  rate,  I  am  quite 
Bure  that  when  I  sailecl  from  Brindiai  far 
Alexandria  in  the  autumn  of  1873,  in  the 
P.  and  O,  steamer  Ceylon,  Sir  Andrew  Clarke, 
with  Lady  Clarke  and  an  A.D.C,  also  sailed, 
on  the  former*a  way  to  take  up  the  governor- 
ship, as  I  then  understood.  Sir  Andrew  can 
harrlly  have  reached  Singapore  before  No- 
vember, 1873,  and  therefore  1874  seems  a 
likelier  date  for  the  alleged  document. 

Abgink. 

Coat  of  Aems  (9^  S.  vi.  349,  415,  497).— 
Me,  John  Kadcliffe's  allusion  to  the  arras 
of  Burnaby  of  Watford,  co.  Northampton, 
prompts  me  to  say  that  there  is  in  Watforfl 
Church  a  monument  to  Susanna  Eyton  (ok 
6  June,  1631),  daughter  of  **  Thomas  Burnttbie 
Lord  of  Watford,^  It  contains  several  .shields 
of  arms,  of  which  I  shall  be  h^ppy  to  furnish 
readings  to  AYEAriR  if  desired. 

John  T.  Page. 

Went  Haddon,  Nortliampton shire. 

Lyme  Regis  (^^^  S,  vi,  387,  515).— I  should 
be  much  obliged  to  Mr,  Radford  if  he  could 
give  me  the  reference  to  the  South  Kensing- 
ton art  catalogue  in  which  this  piece  of 
tapestry  is  mentioned.  I  understand  that  it 
is  supposed  to  reprei^ent  the  marriage  of 
Henry  VIL,  and  that  it  was  pre^entetl  to  the 
ahurcn  by  the  late  Mr.  Edward  Peek  in  1886, 

G.  F.  H  B, 


Author  of  Veeses  Wanted  {9"^  S.  vi,  507), 
—The  lines  are  by  S,  T.  Coleridge.  The 
querist  will  find  them  in  Pickering  s  Aldine 
edition,  1S34,  vol.  iii.  p.  33  L  W,  T, 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  *a 

Did  ^nglUh  Qlo^ts.   Edited  by  A.  S,  Napier,  PIlD, 

(Oxford,  Clarendon  Prefla.) 
Fkw  people,  as  their  eye  glancefl  down  the  trim 
and  well- ordered  columns  of  uti  Anglo-Saxon 
dicticinary^  realtao  the  varied  and  ovit-of-the-way 
aourcea  from  which  the  word*  have  been  brought 
togetber  No  incoDBiderable  number  have  been 
quarried  out  of  the  MSS,  of  mediieval  Latin  writert 
which  Anglo-Saxon  acribes  had  interlined  for  their 
own  or  their  pupils*  bene  Jit  with  words  from  their 
mother  tongue  to  elucidate  the  hard  worda  of  the 
original,  in  very  much  the  same  way  as  that  adopted 
in  the  Hamiltonian  system  of  teach inj;  a  Ianj?uag« 
or  in  Dr,  Giles's  "^cnbi,"  An  immense  amount  of 
thia  raw  maieriaU  of  the  hi^jhcat  valno  for  leiico- 
(5Taphy*ha8  here  been  brought  togellietby  Dr.  Napier 
in  the  last  iftaua  of  the  "  Anecdota  OxocitenaLa." 
From  MSS.  of  Aldhelm,  Beda^  and  others— sixty- 
two  in  number— he  haa  made  an  important  collec- 
tion of  these  Rlosses*  and  edited  them  with  the 
moat  judicious  and  con&cicntioiia  care.  That  the 
transcription  and  interpretation  of  interlinear 
gloa^fl  jaataek  attended  by  gpecial  difficulty  was 
proved  by  the  bJnnders  made  by  Mr.  Thoma« 
Wright  in  edilin|f  his  *  Vocabulanea,'  and  eveu  hy 
Wiilcker  in  re -editing  them,  Mafjy  such  hivue*  of 
bis  predecessors  are  incidentallii^  recorded  in  Dr. 
NapieHi!  valuable  notes.  There  is  a  whole  gatt«ry 
of  ghoat-word^,  for  instance,  f^till  haunting  our  b«at 
An^do-Saxon  word-books  which  have  originated  in 
mere  m is undemtan dings  of  glosaei.  Such  is  Idt, 
medicine^  which  has  passed  muster  with  moat  oi 
the  lexicographers,  baaed  on  ^*  niedicinie,  /a^  ^*  43b2), 
due  to  their  not  recognizing  this  as  an  abbreviation 
of  the  customary  word  Icmiwigt.  Another  is  geda/^ 
fury,  in  Hall  and  Sweet,  founded  on  the  entry 
"  deiar amenta,  ^Bf/o/u"  (418),  which  is  only  a  com* 
pendioun  form  of  geilofunaa.  Similarly  a  non- 
existent riC^  ferocita«,  m  LeO|  has  boen  iivolviKl 
from  "  ferocitatem,  rey'  (2085),  which  is  short  for 

Some  of  these  imaf^nary  words  have  arisen  from 
a  gloss  being  displaced  and  so]mrated  from  its 
**  lemma**  or  the  word  it  was  intez\dcd  to  explain. 
Thus*  ill  Wright- Wiilcker,  rircnne,  to  smoke^  has 
got  divorced  from  its  true  mat«  turi^tare  and 
attached  to  a  neighliouring  word  Diant^  with  tho 
curious  result  that  Rktn  was  long  believed  lo  be 
an  c>!d  EngUeh  goddess  corresi  ion  ding  to  Diana. 
In  the  same  way  fftj(7,  a  twig  or  shoot-,  in  Leo  and 
Hall,  i^firang  from  a  misunderstanding  of  tagum, 
togum  (inin^h).  as  if  it  globed  iTtmittibii^t  when  it 
really  tMjlonged  to  /cii/w  (4603).  So  Toller's  i^er«f  ipe, 
married  8tate»  and  t.fio*s  Mwinti^  palma»  rest  upon  a 
misreading  of  fer^ip*.  (3506)  and  nwintla  (4486K  To 
the  same  cause  may  be  ti^^^d  the  fiseudo- vocable 
xraeiAli:  deep  (in  Totler-Roawortb)*  or  yv^llc  (in  Leo), 
which  baa  been  evolved  out  of  %n  wdicum^  a  mei-e 
misreadinc  of  niwdicuvi  (^rttn/fp),  **in  fuado  pro- 
fundo'Ml&t2). 

More  pardonable  is  the  error  caused  by  the  aomo- 


•»8.vilja».mm«i.i      notes  and  QUERIES. 


59 


what  •nigmAtical  entry   "  uas,  a.  paolus,  fcUeU,  lias  as  yet  shown  no  strong  tendency  to  concerted 

(ydc/'*(51i2).  Most  editors  have^  naturally  enough,  action.     We  are  glad,  accordingly,  to  take  Mr. 

taken  bifdd  to  be  synonymous  -with  faUeU,  and  have  Floroer's  book  as  a  step  in  the  right  direction,  and 

defined  it  as  a  **  vessel,"  connecting  it  with  hyden,  to  own  it  the  best  work  in  its  class  that  we  possess. 

Dr.   Napier,  however,  holds   that  it  is  onlv  vtu  We  should  be  sorry,  however,  to  look  upon  it  as 

which  IS   glossed   by  /(zttl^^  and   that  hydu  was  tioal.    Concerning  John  Day  a  good  deal  of  infor- 

intended  to  elucidate  8,  Paulus  as  being  the  an-  --'■'-—    --  *  -^      '"»- —     --   --»- r_-L„_^i_ 

Donncer  (beadle)  or  preacher  of  the  Gospel.  He 
might  have  added— for  it  is  not  obvious  to  every- 
body—that the  allusion  is  to  the  apostle  being  *'  a 


choaen  vessel,"  vas  electionit  (Vulg.,  Acts  iz.  15).  The 
editor  rejects  Leo*s  pcecig,  cunning,  on  the  ground 
that  it  depends  upon  pacigere^  which  is  itself  a 
miswriting  of  ptetigere^  the  gloss  upon  ccUlidt  (4980) ; 
Imt  surely  some  such  form  is  postulated  by  the 
Scottish  pawky.  In  cucedreaw,  redivivus,  Leo  has 
maoulactured  a  monster  by  running  two  words 
into  one,  i.e.,  cuced  raw  (quickened  corpse),  which 
form  the  gloss  on  cadau^r  rediuiuum  (2213). 

These  instances  are  enough  to  show  how  warily 
and  circumspectly  an  editor  must  pick  his  steps 
through  the  hidden  pitfalls  with  which  interlinear 
flosses  abound.  Dr.  Napier  is  eminently  keen- 
sighted,  and  if  he  gives  a  word  his  imprimcUur  we 
feel  that  we  may  have  full  confidence  in  his  judg- 
ment and  sagacity.  Many  of  his  foot-notes  contain 
valuable  matter  for  the  etymologist.  We  may 
instance  his  remarks  on  **occa,  eavj  fecUh,'*  i.e,,  a 
harrow,  where  he  makes  it  plain  that  "fallow*' 
means,  not  the  yellowish  soil,  as  Prof.  Skeat  and 
others  have  thought,  but  land  ploughed  or  broken 
Qp  by  the  harrow  (A.-S.  f taiga ;  cf.  Kluge,  «.v. 
•Felge'). 

A  Short  HiHory  of  English  Printing,  1478-1898,    By 

Henry  R.  Plomer.  (Kegan  Paul  k  (Jo.) 
To  the  *'  English  Bookman's  Library"  of  Mr.  Alfred 
Pollard  Mr.  Plomer  has  added  *A  Short  History 
of  English  Printing.'  That  the  epithet  **  short "  i« 
well  merited  none  will  doubt,  considerably  lesa 
than  three  hundred  pages  serving  to  carry  the 
aooonnt  of  English  pnnters  from  William  Caxton 
to  William  Morris.  Brief  as  it  is,  however,  it 
supplies  almost  all  that  is  known.  Caxton,  of 
oonrse,  stands  apart,  and  all  concerned  with  biblio- 
naphical  studies  are  bound  to  know  the  life  by 
Blades,  to  say  nothing  of  previous  lives  by  CharlcE 
Knight  and  others.  Printing  in  England  has 
been  neglected.  It  was  established  here  later 
than  in  most  European  countries,  and  after  ite 
birth  it  experienced  a  long  period  of  decrepitude. 
While  the  EUzevirs  were  giving  to  the  world  the 
mafshksM  volumes  which  are  still  the  delight  of 
the  bibUophile,  our  printers  were  issuing  works 
only  less   contemptible  in    respect  of  paper  and 

Sint  than  those  of  some  obscure  German  presses. 
obody  has,  accordingly,  cared  to  do  for  the  pro 
dactions  of  the  Enslish  press  what  Renouard  did 
for  the  Alduses,  Willems  for  the  Elzevirs,  Mr. 
Christie  for  Dolet,  and  other  writers  for  th<^ 
Etiennes  and  the  Didots,  the  Cazins,  the  PlantinB, 
sod  even  for  Pierre  Marteau  and  other  less  re- 
nowned printers  of  the  Netherlands.  So  much 
Hranoe,  indeed,  prevails  concerning  many 
isb  printers  that  it  seems  probable  that  we 
never  be  able  to  recover  lost  headway.  Not 
insensible  are  we  to  the  service  that  has  been 
rendered  in  England  by  the  publication  by  Prof. 
Arber  of  the  Registers  of  the  Stationers'  Company 
op  to  HMO  and  to  other  contemplated  obligations 
onbiipart.  We  have  also  a  Bibliographical  Society 
vfaich  does  tooMthiiig  in  a  fragmentary  way,  but 


ination  is  supplied.  There  are  other  sixteenth- 
century  printers  who  remain  names  and  little  more. 
Mr.  Plomer,  who  is  one  of  the  most  erudite  of  our 
bibliographers,  says  — which  is,  of  course,  true — 
that  *^the  art  of  printing  in  England  had  never  at 
finy  time  reached  such  a  point  of  excellence  as  in 
Paris  under  the  Estiennes,  in  Antwerp  under 
Plantiu,  or  in  Venice  under  the  Aldi."  He  might 
have  added  in  Florence,  and  subsequently  in 
Lyons,  under  the  Giunti  in  Milan,  and  in  many 
other  places.  When  the  book  reaches  a  second 
edition,  we  should  like  a  chapter  —  not  very 
closely  associated,  it  must  be  owned,  with  the 
subject  —  concerning  the  English  books  printed 
«ibbroad  during  the  period  of  the  Commonwealth. 
Some  of  them  are  before  us.  including  the  first 
and  highly  esteemed  '  Metnode  et  Invention 
Nouvelle  de  dresser  les  Chevaux,*  printed  in 
Antwerp  in  1657.  The  volume  has  for  frontis- 
piece a  good  portrait  of  William  Morris.  Other 
|)or traits  are  those  of  Caslon,  Baskerville,  and— 
fault  de  mieux,  we  suppose— Sir  Roger  L'Estranffe. 
It  reproduces  many  printers'  marks  and  facsimiles 
of  types,  and,  by  special  permission,  two  pages  from 
Kelmscott  Press  productions.  Country  presses,  or. 
as  Mr.  Plomer  elects  to  call  them,  **  provincial 
presses,"  are  also  dealt  with,  and  due  honour  is  done 
to  the  Glasgow  press  of  Foulis  and  to  the  Edin- 
burgh presses  of  Ballantyne  and  Constable.  The 
renowned  modem  presses  of  Eyre  &  Spottiswoode 
and  Whittingham  come  naturally  within  the 
Acheme. 

Julius  CcBsar;  Two  Otntltjnen  of  Vtrona.  With 
Introductions  and  Notes  by  John  Dennis.  (Bell 
&  Sons.) 
Two  more  volumes  of  the  "Chiswick  Shakespeare" 
have  appeared  under  the  editorship  of  Mr.  John 
Dennis,  and  with  the  illustrations  of  Mr.  Byam 
Shaw.  The  qualities  of  accurate  text,  clear  and 
legible  type,  and  pretty  exteriors  are  as  notable 
in  these  as  in  the  previous  volumes,  and  the  suc- 
cessive books,  which  are  suited  for  almost  every 
purpose,  are  specially  suited  to  bo  slipped  into  the 
pocKet  when  tne  possessor  is  going  to  one  of  those 
performances  of  Shakespeare  wnich  are  now  happily 
coming  once  more  into  fashion. 

Dr.  Johnson's  Tablt-TalL    (Gay  k  Bird.) 
This  little  work,  not  to  be  confounded  with  the 

*  Johnsoniana '  or  the  *  Beauties,'  has  been  edited 
by  Mr.  Potter  Briscoe,  and  included  in  the  pretty 
series  of  the  **  Bibelots."  The  selection  is  well 
made,  and  the  source  is  in  every  instance  indicated. 

Tht  Clergy  Directory  and  Parish  Guide  for  1001, 

(Phillips.) 
This  best  and  most  indispensable  of  guides  to  the 
clergy  appears  earlier  than  usual,  no  doubt  as  a 
tribute  to  the  new  century.  It  retains  easily  its 
supremacy,  showing,  in  the  case  of  the  *  Alpha- 
betical List  of  the  Clergv,'  qualification,  order, 
and   appointment,   with    dates ;   and    in   that   ot 

*  Parishes  and  Parochial  Districts,'  diocese,  popula- 
tion, incumbent,  annual  income,  and  patron.  It 
has  also  a  patrons'  list,  showing  the  dvBtitvXyoXvm.  ^\ 


60 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     l«*  s.  vn.  Jah.  la,  laa. 


Church  livings,  the  diocesan  and  cathedral  estab- 
lishments, and  a  list  of  societies,  charitable,  educa- 
tional, and  missionary.  No  work  of  its  class  is 
more  serviceably  arranged. 

HiRBEBT  Fry's  HoycU  Guide  to  the  London 
Charities  (Chatto  k  Windus),  one  of  the  handiest 
of  annuals,  has  reached  its  thirty-seventh  issue. 
It  is  edited  by  Mr.  John  Lane,  and  discharges 
admirably  the  function  for  which  it  is  intended. 

Thi  Photo-Miniature  (Dawbam  &  Ward)  is  a 
monthly  periodical  intended  as  a  medium  for 
information.  Few  numbers  appear  from  which 
something  new  may  not  be  learnt.  No.  19,  on 
photographing  children,  is  of  special  excellence. 

Cdtia  is  the  title  of  a  new  periodical,  the  first 
monthly  number  of  which  has  appeared.  It  aims  at 
bringing  into  close  contact  the  Celtic  inhabitants  of 
Ireluid,  Wales,  Cornwall,  Brittany,  the  Highlands, 
and  the  Isle  of  Man.  and  advocates  the  use  of 
the  Celtic  dialects.  The  first  part  is  published  of  a 
dictionary  of  the  two  surviving  Brythonic  and  the 
three  Gaelic  dialects.  It  may  be  obtained  from  the 
Celtic  Association,  97,  Stephen's  Green,  Dublin. 

The  paper  of  most  note  in  the  current  number  of 
Folk-Lore  is  Prof.  Savce's  account  of  the  popular 
beliefs  of  Cairo,  which,  though  chiefly  of  Monam- 
medan  growth,  yet  show  the  impress  of  Pharaonic 
£gypt«  Among  the  comic  tales  recorded  in  the 
article  is  one  telling  how  a  dentist  drew  an  aching 
tooth  by  tying  it  to  the  sufferer's  foot  and  then 
giving  him  a  blow  from  behind.  "  The  fellow  drew 
away  his  head,  and  the  tooth  fell  to  the  ground. 
He  cried:  *0  sons  of  Cairo,  learned  and  under- 
standing ones  I  the  tooth  is  extracted  from  (my) 
back  r  It  is  perhaps  worth  remembering  that  a 
similar  tooth-drawing  story  is  current  in  Lincoln- 
shire. F.  J.,  a  village  matron  whose  conduct  gave 
rise  to  much  gossip  in  the  earlier  half  of  the  nine- 
teenth century,  once  inveigled  her  husband  into 
letting  her  tie  a  clock-weight  to  a  troublesome 
tooth.  This  accomplished,  she  dashed  the  weight 
on  the  ground.  *'  Cot  flies  tooth  i'  a  crack.  My 
wo'd.  didn't  he  saay  a  thing  or  two  as  soon  as  he 
ooula  speak !  Awiver,  toothaache  was  gone,  sewer 
enif." 

Thb  folk-lore  brought  together  in  Mduaine  is  of 
permanent  value  to  all  anthropologists  and  ethno- 
logists; and  the  varied  information  stored  up  in 
the  pages  of  the  hUermidiaire  cannot  fail  to  be  of 
service  to  every  one  who  occupies  himself  with 
historic  and  prehistoric  research. 

The  KcUendar  of  the  Royal  Institute  of  British 
Architects  is  a  businesslike  compilation,  which  ought 
to  be  very  useful  as  a  book  of  reference ;  and  the 
Library  Journal  should  prove  interesting  to  all 
people  concerned  in  the  training  of  the  general 
mass  of  the  population  through  the  development  of 
free  libraries.  

With  much  regret  we  have  to  chronicle  the 
death,  after  a  long  illness,  of  Mr.  Richard  Copley 
Christie,  a  frequent  and  valued  contributor  to  our 
columns.  Born  in  1830  at  Lenton,  NotU,  the  second 
son  of  Lorenzo  Christie,  of  Edale,  Derbyshire,  and 
Ann,  daughter  of  Isaac  Bayley,  of  Lenton  Sands,  he 
matriculated  at  Lincoln  College,  Oxford,  April, 
1819,  proceeding  B.A.  1853  and  M.A.  1865,  and  was 
call^  to  the  dqx  at  Lincoln's  Inn,  6  June,  1857. 
He  took  a  first  class  in  law  and  history,  and 


became  in  1896  Hon.  LL.D.  Victoria.  He  was 
professor  of  history  at  Owens  College,  Manchester, 
1854-66,  and  of  political  economy  1865-66,  and  in 
1898  he  endowed  the  institution  with  60,00(V.  As 
Chancellor  of  the  Diocese  of  Manchester  from  1872 
to  1893,  he  was  one  of  the  few  laymen  called  upon 
to  preach.  President  of  the  Chetham  Society  since 
18»,  of  the  Record  Society  of  Lancashire  and  Cheshire 
1883-95,  and  of  the  Library  Association  of  the  United 
Kingdom,  he  was  also  a  governor  of  Owens  College 
and  of  the  Royal  HoUoway  College.  A  man  of  deep 
I  erudition  and  varied  accomplishments,  he  is  re- 
i  sponsible  for  *  Old  Church  and  School  Libraries 
of  Lancashire,'  1885;  '  Diary  and  Correspondence  of 
Dr.    John    Worthington,'    vol.   ii.   part  ii.,  1886; 

*  Bibliography    of    Dr.     J.    Worthington,'    1888; 

*  Annales  Cestrienses,'  1887 ;  *  Letters  of  Sir  Thomas 
Copley,'  1897.  His  great  work  was,  however,  the 
'Etienue  Dolet,  the  Martyr  of  the  Renaissance,' 
1880,  reprinted  1899,  and  translated  in  1886  into 
French.  At  his  residence,  Ribsden,  Windleaham. 
Surrey,  where  he  died  on  the  9th  inst.,  he  had 
a  fine  library,  including  many  works  printed  by 
Dolet,  of  which  books  ne  was  a  zealous  collector. 
Mr.  Christie  married,  in  1861,  Mary  Helen,  daughter 
of  Samuel  Fletcher,  Broomtield,  Manchester.  He 
was  from  1887  to  1897  chairman  of  Sir  Joseph 
Whitworth  &  Co.,  Limited. 

We  have,  to  our  regret,  to  chronicle  the  deaths 
under  very  painful  circumstances,  of  the  Rev. 
William  Roddam  Tate,  of  Walpole  Vicarage, 
Halesworth,  Suffolk.  He  seems  to  have  been  a 
victim  to  the  lamentable  depreciation  in  eocleaias- 
tical  property,  and  was  a  frequent  contribator  to 
our  columns.  He  was  educated  at  King's,  London, 
ordained  priest  in  1873,  and  appointed  to  the 
vicarage  he  held  in  1882. 


We  must  call  specicU  attention  to  the  folhmng 
notices  ;— 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  namfl 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  neoeesarily  for  pub- 
lication, but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Wi  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately. 

To  secure  insertion  of  communications  corre- 
spondents must  observe  the  following  rules.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answer- 
ing queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previous 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exact 
heading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repeat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  oom- 
munication  **  Duplicate." 

J.  H.  MacM.  ("Portmanteau-word").  —  This 
term  was  invented  by  Lewis  Carroll  to  explain 
words  that  he  formed  on  the  composite  system. 

NOTICE. 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addressed  to 
"The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries '"—Advertise- 
ments and  Business  Letters  to  "The  Pablisher"— 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Boildings,  Ghanoery  Lane,  S.C. 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  retain 
communications  which,  for  any  reason,  we  do  not 
print ;  and  to  this  role  we  can  make  no  azoeptioo. 


»*  8.  VIL  Jan.  19,  1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


JlkM  ATUBNJEUM  for  January  li  contains  Articles  on 

TWO  CBLTIC  POB-rs. 

IMkDfMO  nOCVUMXm  Ol  BMOLUH  HISTORY. 

UADAQABCAB.  aad  MAUIUTIU8. 

ABBRDBBM8HIBB  PLACB-MAJCBS. 

ypnmtiMi  of  HAMMUBA.BL 

OBiniTAL  STUDY  In  BB&UN. 

XBW  BOTBLS-.-Dr.  North  and  hU  Friends;    The  Inner  Shrine 

Deacon  BndbfBrj. 
mUTABY  BOOKS. 
RHBOLOOY  nnd  FOLKLORB. 
Urnm  TBSTAMBMT  LITBaATUBB. 
SHOBT  ST0BIB8. 
CLASSICAL  FHILOLOOT. 
rOLmCAL  BOOMOMY  nnd  HISTOBY. 
OVB  UBBABY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
SOPBUS  SCBAMDOBPH  ;  OOPYRIOHT  in  SBRIAL  MATTKR  ;  The 

THBOBIBS  ••  to  HUCBOWN  :  A  BBULAMATIOM ;  DKATH  of 

KUO  ALFKBD. 


LITBBABY  GOSSIP. 

■CIBBCB^-Si.  Klldn ;  Mcdicnl  Books ;  Oeocrmithlcnl  Notes  i  Boeieties ; 

MeMlngs  Next  Week  ;  Oosalp. 
FOCB  ABTS  :-Scottlah  Mnrkct  Crosses  t  Ubrmrj  TsMe  (  Gossip. 
KCBIC :— The  Week »  Goeslp  t  Feffoimenees  Next  Week, 
i  Goeslp. 


7%«  A  THENAiUM  for  December  99  ooniains  Articles  on 

The  BABONBSS  DB  BODB. 

Ihe  JBW  In  LONDON. 

KHUBABAN  nnd  SISTAN. 

ALIBHS  la  SIKTBBNTH-CBNTURY  LONDON. 

TWO  BOOKS  of  FBBNCH  TBATBL. 

The  OXIO&D  BNOUSH  DICTIONABY. 

AMONG  tke  BBKBBBS  of  ALGBRIA. 

BBW  MOTBLB  :-4ena  Kelr  of  OnigneU ;  Second  Lore. 

nomrs  na«  pastimbs. 

CBBIBTMAS  BOOKS. 
KBLKAL  UTBBATCBB 
MWI.IBH  wsA  IRISH  HISTOBY. 
tUJH  •!  AiyTBMTUBB 


OVM  UBBABY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
Tin  BUOK  BALBS  of  ItOO;  The  HEAD  MASTBB8'  CONFBRBNOBi 
11«  TWO  BBADFOBOS ;  SALBR  ;  BOBBBT  MBLYILLB'S  BIDS. 


UIBBABT  GOSSIP. 

KnaCB^-Tbe  life  of  Pnstenr  {  LIhmrj  Tnhle «  Sodettes  i  MeeUngs 


The  A  THBNjEUMfor  January  B  contains  Article*  on 

The  OXFORD  BOOK  of  ENGLISH  VBR8B. 

The  RULBK8  of  the  SOUTH. 

A  CAPTAIN  Of  the  SIKHS. 

The  STURT  of  FU)RBNUB. 

OLD  BNOLISH  GL088BS. 

The  NSW  PAPYKI. 

NBW  DANTB  UTBRATURB. 

A  SYRIAN  SECT. 

NBW  NUVBL6:-PreJadfed:  God's  Lsdi  The  Sway  of  PhUlppnt 
Strimctown  on  the  Pike  {  Committed  to  his  Conrge ;  Amonr,  Amour. 

AMERICAN  HISTORY. 

TRANSLATIONS. 

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LITERATURE. 

SOOTTIrtH  HIHTORY. 

BOOKS  for  CHILDRBN. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

The  ARGON AUTii  uf  the  NBW  AGS;  The  BOOK  SALES  Of  igOO; 
CHARLBd  LAMB  as  n  LANDED  PROPRIETOR  i  The  DATE  Of 
KING  ALPRBU'8  DEATH;  DANTB  TRANSLATION  SEEN  In 
IMOi  ANOTHBR  NBW  THEORY  as  to  HUCHOWN ;  PAPERS  of 
WILLIAM  PSNN ;  The  SECOND  CASKET  LETTBR. 

LTTBRARY  GOSSIP.  " 

BCIBNCE  :— Books  on  Bleetrieltjr ;  Botnnicnl  Lttemtnre ;  Astronomlonl 

Notes  i  MeeUogs  Next  Week  t  Gossip. 
FINE  ARTS  :-Libr*rT  Table  {  The  Society  of  Oil  Painters  i  Ronnn 

Brtinln  in  IWOi  Gossip. 
MUSIC :— Ufe  of  Beethoren  {  Goeslp  >  Performanoes  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-Herod ;  The  Likeness  of  the  Night ;  Goeslp. 

The  A  TUHNAiUM  for  December  ft  contains  Articles  on 
SIR  RUTHERFORD  ALCOCK  In  CHINA. 
A  HIMTORY  Of  STEEPLBCHASING. 
HOME  SCOTCH  REMINISCENCES. 
PROF.  DOWDBN'S  PURITAN  nnd  ANGLICAN. 
KICHBLIBU  and  hU  INFLUENCE. 
TWO  BOOKS  on  EDUCATION. 
PAPERS  of  HBNRY  VIIL 
NEW  NOVELS :— Foee  In  Lnw ;  An  Americnn  Woman  -,  Miss  Qere- 

land't  Cumpaalon  i  Son  of  Judith ;  The  Outcnst  Bmperor  i  From 

the  tfconrge  of  the  ^Fongue. 
BOOKS  on  WAR. 
SHORT  STORIES. 
CLASSICAL  PHILOLOGY. 
RECENT  VERSE. 
CHRISTMAS  BOOKS. 
BOOKS  about  SOUTH  AFRICA. 
UX!AL  HISTORY. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
IZAAK  WALTON'S  BOOKS;    A  NEW  THBORY  as  to  HUCHOWN  : 

Tbe    DArS   of   KINO    ALFBBD'S    DEATH;    MUl'ILATION    ol 

BIO HTBBNTH. CENTURY      LETTERS :    The    EDITING    of    a 

CLASSIC. 


mi  UKni-Ttrnth  Anhlteeu  nnd  Senlptors;  Ubrary  TuMe;  Mr. 

F.B.nekenglU    Betas  from  Rome ;  Goeslp. 
MEOC  r—Ufenarr  Table :  Goealp  {  Performanoes  Next  Week. 
SBAMA :— Tlo  Week }  John  Shakspenre,  of  Ingon,  nnd  GUbert,  of  St. 


LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE :— Medical  Books;  Geoginphical  Notes;  Chemical  Noteet 

BoeleUes ;  Meetings  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
FINB  ARTS :— Stories  of  the  High  Priests  of  Memphis ;  Libmry  Table  i 

Annuals ;  Cbrlstmas  Books ;  Gossip. 
MUSIC  :-Lafond'8  Life  of  Garat ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-Shakspearean  Litemture ;  Gossip. 


The  ATHENJEUM,  every  SATURDAY^  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
iOHM    C,    F&AJNCI8,    Athennam    Offioct    Bream's  Baildings,    Chancery  Lane,   B.O. 

And  of  aU  Newsagents. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*8.viLjAif.i9.i90L 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DEPARTMENT 


THE  fOLLOWDTG 


MAQAZINB8  AND 
BBVIBWS, 


LIBRARY  COPIES 


WITHDRAWN  FROM 
OIROULATION. 


POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

Until  further  noUoe  :— 


MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


AMKVU 

7    6 

Longman's       

13    0 

Macmillan's     ...       ... 

10    6 

National  Review 

1«    0 

Nineteenth  Century ... 

7    « 

Pall  Mall           

b    0 

Revue  des  Deux  Mondee 

16    0 

Scribner*!         

9    0 

Temple  Bar      

nOLAMMVU 

c  4. 
...      6    0 
...      T 
...    16 
...    16 
...      8 

...  ao 

...      7 
...      7 


Argoey 

Blackwood's      

Century 

Contemporary  Review        

Oomhill 

Bogllsh  Illustrated 

Fortnightly  Review 

Harpe?s 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
Bdinburgh        7    6 1  Quarterly  7    6 

The  terms  will  be  U,  6d.  per  annam  less  to  Sabscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalls  to 
have  the  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  than 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAY  GOMMENGE  AT  ANY  DATE. 


A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 


OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 


W.       H.       S 


M    I    T     H      & 

186,  STBAND,  LONDON, 


SON, 


And  at  the  Railway  BookttalU,  to  which  placet  they  will  be  forwarded  earriage  free. 


THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED. 

OBNTURY  MAQAZINB,  The.    VoU.  17,  30,  and  22      

ATALANTA  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  «     

LONDON  BOCIBTY.    2  vols,  for  1891         

a  vols,  for  1893         

OASSBLL'S  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1898,  to  May,  1899.    Illustrated 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       

CHAMBBRS'S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURB,  SCIBNCB,  and  ARTS.    Vol.  for  1893.. 

Vol.  for  1896 

Vol.  for  1896 

Vol.  for  1897 

Vol.  for  1898 

Vol.  for  1899 

QUIVBR  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  April.  1898 

November.  1898,  to  April,  1899 , 

May  to  October.  1899  

GOOD  WORDS.    Vols,  for  1888, 1893,  1894,  1895,  1896,  1897,  and  1898         

SUNDAY  MAQAZINB.    VoU.  for  1889,  1893, 1894, 1895, 1896,  and  1898      


PatOltlMd    Oftf«i 


«.  4, 

2  • 
8  € 

3  6 
8  € 
2  6 
2  6 
S  6 
8  € 
8  6 
8  6 
8  6 
8  6 
2  6 
2  6 
2  6 
2  6 
2  6 


W.  H.  SMITH  k,  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Railway  Bookstalls,  to  which  places  Subscribers  can  be  transferred,  free  of  ohaige. 

PmptetHt  of  r«rnu,  4e.,  Mat  frm  upon  applieation  to  186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

PilBted  bj  JORM  BDWARD  FRANGIS,  Athsamm  Press,  Braaa  s  BuUdlnffs,  ChMe«7  laae,  KG.  i  aa4  PabUsked  bv 
JOMN  0.  raAMOZS  St  Bctaa's  BaUAlags,  Chaaeerr  LMe,Xo.-SMHri^,  imnmrt  U»  UOL 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 

%  "Slitlimvx  of  IntercommnnirRtton 


FOB 


ITERARY     MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


''When  loiuid,  make  a  note  of."~OAPTAiH  Cuttlb. 


>.  161.  [B^'aVJ]    Satubday,  Jamuaby  26,  1901.   r,::^^:^:;}^^- 

DTHERAN'S  PRICE  CURRENT  OF  LITERATURE. 

ttONTHLT  CATALOGUE  OF  FEE8H  PURCHASES  IN  SECOND-HAND  BOOKS.) 
ISSUED  FOE  OVER  FIFTY  TEARa 

No.  604,  JUST  PUBLISHED  for  JANUARY,  includes 

DOES  on  BIBLI06BAPH7  and  in  SPANISH  LITERATURE. 

Post   free   on    application    to 

HENRY    SOTHEBAN    &    CO., 

Booksellers,  Publishers,  and  Bookbinders  ; 
General  Agents  for  Bookbuyers  at  Home  and  Abroad. 

LIBRARIES  AND   BOOKS  BOUGHT, 

VALUED  FOR  PROBATE,  OR  ARRANGED  AND  CATALOGUED. 
ALSO   ENGRAVINGS,  MANUSCRIPTS,  AND  AUTOGRAPH  LETTERS. 
Thejr  are  at  all  times  prepared  to  Inspbct,  Valub,  and  Pubohabb  Libbabibb  or  smaller  CoUectioDs 
Books,  also  Kugravings  and  Autographs,  either  in  Town  or  Couotry,  for  their  full  Cash  value,  with 
moval  without  trouble  or  expense. 

140,  STRAND,  W.C.  (near  Waterloo  Bridge); 
37,  PICCADILLY,  W.  (opposite  St.  James's  Church). 

Telegraphic  Address :  Booncnr,  Lomdon.  Codes :  Uhioosk  and  ABC. 

Foanded  in  Tower  Street,  City,  1816. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (9«»s.vn.jAK.a8.i90L 


WITCHCRAFT  AT  COGGKSHALL,  ESSEX, 
in  leW:  beiof  the  NamtlTe  of  Ker.  J.  Bovs,  MinUt«r  of  that 
ParUh,  printed  from  hit  Manntcrtpt  in  the  poHOMion  of  the  Publisher. 
8to,  pp.  :a.    Limited  to  Fifty  Copivi.    te.  post  free. 

▲.  KUBSBLL  SMITH,  34,  Great  WindmlU  Street,  London,  W. 


O 


NE    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES. 

on  Wood.    B7  THOMAS  MOaiMO. 


Bngrayed 


Feap.  4to. 


Printed  direct  from  the  OrUrinal  Bloelis  on  Hand-made 
Fiiper,  bound  In  artlitie  boards,  12«.  ftf .  net. 


FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Engraved  on  Copper. 

B7  THOMAS  MORINO. 

Uniform  irith  the  abore.    Printed  direct  from  the  Oricinal  Plates 

on  Hand-made  Paper,  26«.  net. 

THOMAS  MOaiMO. 
The  De  to  More  Press,  62,  Hiffh  Holbom.  London.  W.O. 


rPHE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS 


PAPER- PAD. 

(The  LBAUBMHALL  P&BSS.  Ltd.,  PnbUshert  and  Prlatera, 
to,  liMrtenhsIl  Street,  Loadw,  B.O.i 
Contains  halrisss'  paper,  over  which   the   pen  slips  with   perfect 
freeaom.    sizpenee  each.   &■.  per  doien.  ruled  or  plain.   New  Pocket 
Mm,  Ss.  per  dos^,  ruled  or  plain. 

Author*  should  note  that  The  Leadeahall  Presa,  Ltd.,  cannot  be 
respcoaible  for  the  loss  of  MSB.  or  Are  or  otherwiae.  Duplieate  copies 
should  be  rotalaed. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEB— SUGAB— TEA. 

104,  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 

BCHWBPPB8  WATBRH  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  International 
Bxhlbltton,  Paris,  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesbodav 

THESE  WATERS  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
AlOi  ftCffcc.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continue  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

/    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:— 
\  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVEBN, } 
I  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  ) 

ScHWEPPES,  LTD.,  LONDON,  MaLVERN, 

OLASOOW,  LIVBBPOOL.  BHISTOL.  SYDNBY.  and  MBLBOURNB. 


GENTLEMANLY  YOUTH  WANTED  for 
SBCRBTAKIAL  WORK.  One  desirous  of  obCalidnc  an  laHiM 
Into  the  routine  of  a  Printing  Office  preferred.— Apply,  or  eead  ianJaa> 
laim,  to  F.,  Athencum  Press.  Bream's  Bnildlaffs.  KC.  r^^i^ 

nULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

^^  for  Searches  and  Authentic  Information  respecttng 

ARMOaiAL  BBA1UN08   AND   FAMILY    DB8CBM1B. 

with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artlstle  ProduotloB  of 

HBRALDIC  PAIMTINO  AND  BNGRAVINO. 

Booli-Platee,  Seals.  Dies,  Signet  Rings.  Lirery  Buttooa,  Ccected  Molt> 

ll^r,  VislUiff  and  Inntation  Cards.  *e. 


«.  PICCADILLY,  LONDON  (opposite  the  Owen  Park). 

OOKS.— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS    tup- 

pUed,  no  matter  on  what  Subjeot.    Acknowledged  the  wortd  v^ 

as  the  most  espoft  Buokttnders  extant.    Please  itate  waati      

Great  Bookshop.  14-10,  John  Bright  Street,  Birmingham. 

AOBNCY  FOB  AMBUICAN  BOOBS. 

P.   PUTNAM'S   SONS,   PUBLISHERS  and 

BOOKSBLLB&S. 

of  rr  and  9.  West  tSrd  Street,  New  York,  and  94,  BBDFOBD  8TBBR, 
LONDON,  W.C.  desire  to  call  the  attention  of  the  KBADIlie 
PUBLIC  CO  the  excellent  faeiliUes  presented  by  (heir  Braaeh  Howe  ti 
London  tor  fllling,  on  the  most  fsTourable  terms,  ordara  for  their 
own  STANDAKD  PUBLICATIONS,  and  tor  AT.T,  AMUUGAH 
BOOKS. 

Catalogues  sent  on  appiieatiosi. 


G. 


ATHEN^UM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS,  Printer  of  the  Ailummim,  Wotta  mnd  Qmmiu,  *e..  to 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  BSTIM ATB8  for  all  kinds  of  BOOkTmb^ 
andPSaiODICAL    P&INTINO.— 18,   Bream's    Buildings,    ChaMVf 

STICKPUAST    PASTE    is   HEAPS   better 
Oum  for  sticking  in  Seraps.  Joining  Papers,  *e.    M.  and  Is.  wtth 

strong,  useful  Brush  (not  a  To7).    Send  two  f 

„- —    .__._.._  ^  g,^^      yj^  

Stattoaers.    Stlekphaet  Paeie  etleka. 

MOW  BBADY.  SECOND  BDITION.  &BVI6BD  aad  AUOMBMTBQ, 
prioe  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the      YOUNtt, 
B7  W.  T.  LYNN.  B.A.  F.R.A.8. 
O.  STONBMAll.  80,  Warwick  Lane.  B.C. 

NOW  BBADY.  8B0OND  BDITION,  BBVI8BD  aad  BMLABOID. 

'PHE    PENNY    CHRONOLOGY:    a    Series    of 

1.     Important  Dates  In  the  Hlstoir  of  the  Worid  from  tha  BelgaaC 
Darld  to  the  Present  Time.    Second  BdlUon.    B7  W.  T.  LYMNTBlA. 

O.  BTONBMAN,  80.  Warwick  Lane,  B.a 


THB   DAWN   OF   A   NEW   CENTUBY 
SHOUIiD    SEE   EVBBY    ONE   POSSESSED    OF 

DEBBETT'S 

PAERAQE  (with  Index  to  GourteBy  Titles), 
BARONSTAQJG  (with  Index), 
KNIQHTAQS  and  COMPANIONAQE, 
1901  EDITION  NOW  READY. 
Increaaed  to  over  2,000  pages.    Inoludea  all  recent  Honours,  the  numerous  alterations  caused  by  the  Boer  War  and 
General  Hleetion.    An  Appendix  of  Boyal  Warrant  Holders.    Oloth  gilt,  3U .  6c(. ;  or  in  2  vols.  Ittf.  W.  each. 
1901  EDITION  NOW  READY. 
DE  BRETT'S    WAISTGOAT    POCKET    DIARY. 

THK  HANDIBSI  DIABY  FOB  THB  FOCKBT.    Scarlet  paste  grain,  gilt  edges,  U. 
London :  DEAN  dc  SON,  LiMiTBD,  I60A,  Fleet  Street,  E.a 


8P^  8.  viL  Jak.  28. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


61 


Thb  saddest  task  that  has  yet  fallen 
to  Notex  and  Queries  is  the  record  of 
the  national  loss. 

Bom  24  May,  1819 ;  died  22  January, 
1901*  These  are  the  eimple  outlinca  of 
fact  which  an  empire's  love  and  an 
unparalleled  historic  record  have  filled 
in  until  a  pictoi-e  is  constituted  the 
noblest,  the  grandest,  the  most  splendid 
a|x>n  which  the  world  has  ^azdd.  The 
reign  has  been  longer— as  it  has  been 
more  brilliant— than  that  of  any  pre- 
vious sovereign.  At  present  Britain 
may  say  with  Queen  Constance, 

To  rtjfi  aad  to  the  state  of  my  great  grief 
Let  kings  usemble. 

All  rivalries  and  jealousies  are  for- 
gotten,  the  rulers  of  the  whole  world 
of  civUizfttion  bring  homage  and 
tribute.  Ko  chronicle  attests  a  state 
of  aSaira  so  solemn,  so  sorrowful.  Our 
thoughts  are  wholly  occupied  with  the 
iDustrious  dead.  Yet  even  when  so 
absorbed  what  temptation  to  swelling 
pride  presents  itself !  What,  beside 
Victoria,  are  Semiramis  and  Cleopatra  ? 
What  even  is  our  own  Elizabeth,  who 
presided  over  the  birth  of  empire,  com* 
pared  with  the  Queen  who  haa  borne 
ila  full  state  and  burden  1 

That  the  tragedy  of  recent  days  has 
ihortened  and  clouded  her  life  there  is 
cause  to  fear.  Her  personal  empire 
has,  however,  been  that  of  peace.  Con- 
spicuous  and  exceptional  as  in  all 
r^pecta  has  been  her  career,  its  chief 
gloiy  is  that  it  hag  maintained,  in  a 
time  when  licence  prevails,  the  purity 
of  womanhood,  the  sanctity  of  the 
^mily.  On  the  wisdom  of  Victoria. 
her  recognition  of  the  principles  of 
constitutional  rule,  the  gain  to  her 
councils  of  her  personal  sway,  history 
will  speak.  The  meanest  of  her  sub- 
jects know,  however,  how  her  per- 
sonal life  has  been  worthy  and  pnr^ 
how  it  has  been  founded  on  morality 
and  established  in  righteousness,  an 
eicample  of  the  i)riDciples  on  which 
national  greatness  is  founded  and  li^afe- 
guarded.  As  queen^  as  wife,  as  mother, 
m  all  that  i^  typical  of  England  at 
its  best,  she  claims  and  receives  our 
homage,  our  admiration,  our  tears. 


londoaW  ^satvmdav,  jANUAny  «.  imj. 


CONTENTS. -No.  161, 
VIGTOBI^  RBGINA  BT  IMFSS4TRIX, 

NOTES  :—Speawr,  'Locrltjci/  anil  'Solimui,'  6I-Miib»1]1- 
m*ii  Legeon  ol  Job,  ft3-St.  Clement  Dnnei,  e4— "Keet,"* 
fi5  —  *'  InHurjTCtlon  *  —  Bum*,  6tt  —  UiMni  FflJk-lnre  — 
'*  Moneij  truuted/*  67. 

QUKKlsa : -PliaHimVfl  '  Toun  In  W4l««,'  ftT-BUnkftt»— 
Tiukbame  Famfly— Sorji^tit  Clccirge  Hill  — D'Auvergne 
FAmily-'Uotto  far  Lnundty  Pon^b— Burke  nu  M&1vem~> 
'♦Attur  Acw1."-RiMe  mnd  ZofiJ  Ffcnilll«v  68— Whutely*! 
'  Logie  '  —  Monolltb  In  Hyde  P^k  — JAm«i  Gtvigm  — 
QeoTgfi  Qoldlng  Graiffea— "KuleiTPiEye  '— OM  London 
Tftvemi -Heraldic -Boca  Chl»— 6biJ{wpe»rlftn  Alluiion 
—  Wftter  In  Deatb  Cbvnber,  09  — Qotti^gfi  ol  SprmttoOt 
HortbamptonAliIre,  70. 

REPL  IBS:  —  Bern  en  Fkh  lly  —  " '  Clutiom  "  —  Col .  Moor- 
bQiis«»  TO-Gcorga  KUot- Irish  WlIU— G^wlof^-Fiiuy 
-*"lniiiidate"-*D.N.B.;  Jl-Strlklng  the  Anvil- Biwly 
Line*  on  Cricket —  "  Hattock,*'  72  — Monkeyi  —  Dvt;y 
Lever— Pbb«lQiiua,  73—**  Crying  *  notcbell ' "— ObAraoi^ 
— QuotatiooB,  74  —  Bectorm  nf  Sutkm  QoLdield— "  Phtlo- 
BcrlbliPdui"— The  Bellnun— "  Lftnted  &le"— Amutd  uid 
Darrmnd  —  Simon  FrMer  —  Corpus  ou  SblpboArd,  7S  — 
Soutilab  Du)c«--*' HuiiAg4ii«  "—Arnold  of  Rugby,  70~ 
**Qiit1*r-*nipe"— Author  of  Llnea- "  Th&mp/'  77— Fok- 
n&mtJi — lAymen  rending  In  C«LbiMlnl«,  78. 

KOTfiS  ON  BOOKS  =  -  Murniy"B  *  Oiforrf  fingUflh  Di*^ 
y  onury  '  -  Fr»ter'i  *  Goldtn  Bongh '  —  *  Norwood  At>ll«- 
nBDxa  Heoord/ 

IVoycu  to  Oorreipondf nti. 


EDMUND  SPENHER»  '  LOCRINl!,*  AND 

'KELlMUa.' 

Several  years  ago,  when  I  first  began  to 
read  Spenser,  I  noticed  that  his  wHtings 
generally,  biit  esp)ecially  *  The  Faerie  Queene;,' 
had  exercised  a  remarkable  influence  over 
Marloire ;  and  further,  that  the  anon^rmous 
play  of  •  Loerine  *  copied  whole  lines  and  even 
stanzas  of  the  same  poet's  minor  poems,  with 
little  or  no  attempt  at  variation.  However, 
as  the  parallels  X  was  able  to  gather  did  not 
bear  directly  upon  the  subjects  I  had  in  hand, 
I  contented  mjrself  with  merely  taking  a  note 
of  them,  and  then  let  them  rest.  But  some 
time  ago,  at  the  instigation  of  the  late 
Dr.  Grosart,  I  obtained  a  copy  of  another 
anonymous  play,  ^Selimiis,'  and  I  very  soon 
discovered  that  my  Spenser-'  Locrine'  parallels 
were  of  rather  more  importance  than  I  had 
suspeoterl ;  and  a  close  and  searching  exami^ 
nation  of  *Selimus^  revealed  to  me  the  fact 
that  X  was  at  work  on  a  tragedy  from  the  pen 
of  Christopher  Marlowe. 

'Selimus,*  I  need  hardly  say,  is  generally 
supposed  to  have  been  written  by  Robert 
Greene  :  and,  as  regards  *  Locrine,^  everj-body 
knows  tbe  play  has  been  assigned  to  Marlowe 
as  well  as  to  Shakeapeare.j 


62 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*  s.  vil  Jan.  26.  iwi. 


My  copy  of  'Selimus'  does  not  hint  at 
any  relationship  between  the  tragedy  and 
'  Locrine,'  and  therefore,  when  I  found  that  it 
actually  repeated  lines  of  the  latter  which  I 
had  traced  to  Spenser  years  ago,  my  interest 
was  arousea.  1  worked  the  two  plays  against 
each  other  and  with  Spenser  for  all  they 
were  worth,  and  the  results,  especially  as 
concerns  ^Seliraus,'  are  nothing  less  than 
startling. 

When  I  had  got  sufficient  material  together 
to  enable  me  to  form  some  opinion  of  the 
real  relationship  of  the  two  plays,  I  commu- 
nicated with  Dr.  Furnivall,  and  he  went  over 
a  portion  of  the  evidence  with  Mr.  Daniel,  who 
was  not  slow  to  discover  other  material  in  cor- 
roboration of  my  statements,  with  the  result 
that  I  was  advised  to  get  my  parallels  into 
print  at  once.    Hence  the  present  uaper. 

Without  further  preface,  I  will  at  once 
direct  attention  to  the  parallels  in  Spenser, 
'Locrine,'  and  *Selimus,  merely  remarking 
that  it  will  surprise  many  to  find  that  such 
gross  repetitions  of  Spenser's  work  have  not 
been  detected  long  ere  this. 

I  will  commence  with  a  few  parallels  in 
Spenser  and  *  Locrine '  that  are  not  repeated 
in  *  Selimus '  :— 

A  mighty  Lvon,  lord  of  all  the  wood. 

Having  his  hunger  throughly  satisfiae 

With  i^ray  of  beasts  and  spoyle  of  living  blood. 

Safe  in  his  dreadles  den  him  thought  to  hide : 

His  stemease  was  his^rayse,  his  strength  his  pride, 

And  all  his  glory  in  his  cruell  clawes. 

I  saw  a  Wasp,  that  fiercely  him  defide, 

And  bad  him  battaile  even  to  his  jawes ; 

Sore  he  him  stong,  that  it  the  blood  forth  drawes, 

And  his  proude  heart  is  iild  with  fretting  ire : 

In  vaine  ne  threats  his  teeth,  his  tayle,  his  pawes. 

And  from  his  bloodie  eyes  doth  sparkle  fire. 

*  Visions  of  the  Worlds  Vanitie,'  1591,  stanza  x. 

Compare : — 

AU.  A  mighty  lion,  ruler  of  the  woods, 
Of  wondrous  strength  and  great  proportion, 

Traversed  the  groves,  and  chased  the  wandering 

beasts: 
Long  did  he  ran^e  amid  the  shady  trees, 
And  drave  the  silly  beasts  before  his  face, 
When  suddenly  from  out  a  thorny  bush 
A  dreadful  archer  with  his  bow  y-bent, 
Wounded  the  lion  with  a  dismal  shaft : 
So  he  him  struck^  that  it  drew  forth  the  blood, 
And  iiU'd  his  furious  heart  with  fretting  ire. 
But  all  in  vain  he  threat'neth  teeth  and  paws, 
And  spark  let  h  fire  from  forth  his  flaming  eyes, 
For  the  sharp  shaft  gave  him  a  mortal  wound. 
So  valiant  brut«,  the  terror  of  the  world. 
Whose  only  looks  did  scare  his  enemies. 
The  archer  Death  brought  to  his  latest  end. 
O,  what  may  long  abide  above  this  ground, 
In  state  of  bliss  and  healthful  happiness  ! 

^Dumb  Show,*  L 
Note  that  the  last  two  lines  of  Ate's  speech 
Are  from  '  The  liuines  of  Time '  (U.  668-9)  :— 


But  what  can  long  abide  above  this  ground 
In  state  of  blis,  or  stedfast  happiuesse  ; 

that  its  second  line  is  from  stanza  vii.  of  the 
'Visions  of  the  Worlds  Vanitie';  and  that 
the  context  of  the  latter  is  copied  again  in 
another  part  of  the  play.  But  I  will  quote  :— 

High  on  a  hill  a  goodly  Cedar  grewe, 
0/  wondrotu  UHf/th^  awl  streigM  proportion^ 
That  farre  abroad  her  daintie  odours  threwe ; 
Mongst  all  the  daughters  of  proud  Libanon. 

Spenser. 

BrtUtu,  Even  as  the  lusty  cedar  worn  with  years, 
That  far  abroad  her  dainty  odour  throws, 
'Mongst  all  the  daughters  of  proud  Lebanon. 

*  Locrine,'  L  L 
Casually  I  mav  drop  the  remark  that  the  line 
in  Ate's  speech. 

Whose  only  looks  did  scare  his  enemiea, 
parallels  a  bit  of  *  Selimus '  :— 
Chers.  Whose  only  name  affrights  your  enemies. 

L.185. 
The    writer    of    'Locrine'     cribbed    from 
'Selimus,'  here  and  elsewhere,  as    I    shall 
show. 

Stanza  vi.  of  the  'Visions  of  the  Worlds 
Vanitie'  is  also  pressed  to  do  service  in 
*  Locrine ' : — 

An  hideous  Dragon,  dreadful!  to  behold, 
Whose  backe  was  arm'd  against  the  dint  of  sjieare 
With  shields  of  brasse  that  shone  like  burnisht  golde. 
Strove  with  a  Spider  his  une<^uall  peare  ; 
And  bad  defiance  to  his  enemie. 
The  Bubtill  vermin,  creeping  closely  neare. 
Did  in  his  drinke  sned  povson  privdie ; 
Which  through  his  entrailes  spredding  diversly, 
Made  him  to  swell,  that  nigh  bis  bowells  brost. 
And  him  enforst  to  yeeld  the  victorie. 
That  did  so  much  in  his  owne  greatnesse  trust. 

Thus  in  '  Locrine '  :— 

Ate.  High  on  a  bank,  by  Nilus'  boisterous  Btreams, 
Fearfullv  sat  the  Egyptian  crocodile, 
Dreadfully  grinding  m  her  sharp  long  teeth 
The  broken  Dowels  of  a  silly  fish. 
His  back  was  arm'd  against  the  dint  of  spear. 
With  shields  of  brass  that  shined  like  bumish'd 

gold : 
And  as  he  stretched  forth  his  cruel  paws, 
A  subtle  adder  creeping  closely  near, 
Thrusting  his  forked  stmg  into  his  claws, 
Pri\Hly  shed  his  poison  through  his  bones. 
Which  made  him  swell,  that  there  his  bowels  biuvt. 
That  did  so  much  in  his  own  greatness  trust. 


Mark  what  ensues,  and  you  may  easily  see 
That  all  our  life  is  but  a  tragedy. 

*  Dumb  Show,' IIL 
As   in    the    case   of   the  previous    'Dumb 
Show,'  so  here  the  conclusion  of  Ate's  speech 
is    under   obligation    to   another    poem   of 
Spenser's : — 

For  all  mans  life  me  seemes  a  tragedy. 
Full  of  sad  sights  and  sore  catastropheea. 
*  The  Teares  of  the  Muses,'  1501,  IL  lff7-& 

And  the  author  of  *  Locrine '  ia  bo  enamoored 


9*  a  vn.  Jan.  36. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


68 


of  the  phrsfling  that  he  repeats  it  in  the  last 
speech  by  E^triW,  Act  V.  sc.  iv.  Of  course, 
too.  Ate's  "Eflryptian  crocodile"  is  identical 
with  the  reptile  described  in  stanza  iii.  of  the 
•  Vimons  of  the  Worlds  Vanitie.' 

T  turn  now  to  Spenser's  *  Ruines  of  Rome,' 
a  poem  that  was  evidently  a  favourite  of 
Marlowe's,  who  haw  taken  suggestions  from  it 
for  several  of  the  speeches  in  *  Tamburlaine.' 
This  poem  is  also  copied  in  *  Selimus '  as  well 
a8  in  *  Locrine,' and.  very  curiously,  the  two 
plavs  crib  identical  lines  from  it  and  agree  to 
tack  on  to  those  lines  other  matter  which  is 
not  present  in  Spenser.  But  T  will  deal  with 
a  purely  Spenser-*  Locrine '  parallel  before  T 
bring  in  *  Selimus '  and  Mariowe,  just  to  show 
how  flagrantly  the  playwriter  deals  with 
Spenser's  work  : — 

O  that  I  had  the  Thracian  Poets  harpe, 
F*>r  to  awake  ont  of  th*  infemall  shane 
Tho*e  ant-iqTie  Cfesars.  sleepinp  lontj  in  darke, 
The  which  thi«  anncient  Citio  whilome  made ! 
Or  that  I  had  Amphions  instrument 
To  qaicken  with  his  vitall  notes  accord. 
The  stoDie  loynte  of  these  old  walls  now  rent. 
By  which  th*  Ausonian  light  might  be  restor'd. 

Stanza  xxv. 
Compare  :— 

O  that  I  had  the  Thracian  Orpheus'  harp. 

For  to  awake  ont  of  the  infernal  shade 

Those  nelv  devils  of  hlack  Erehns,— 

That  miirht  torment  the  damned  traitor's  soul ! 

O  that  I  had  Amnhion's  instrument, 

To  QTiickon  with  his  vital  notes  and  tunes 

The  flinty  joints  of  every  stony  rock, 

By  which  the  Scythians  might  be  puninhed. 

•Locrine,*III.  i.  6-12. 
"Notes  and  tunes"!  Does  th&t  accord f 
The  author  of  'Locrine'  never  reaches  any- 
thing like  the  lei'el  of  Spenser  when  he 
attempts  to  vary  that  poet ;  he  tears  every- 
thinjr  to  tatters.  We  shall  have  an  opportu- 
nity later  on  of  contrastins;  his  methods  with 
those  of  Marlowe  and  'Selimus.' 

Charles  Crawford. 
{To  be  cofUintted,) 


A  MUSSULMAN  LEGEND  OF  JOB. 

The  following  is  a  condensed  translation  of 
jotes  contributed  to  the  *  Turkestan  Litorarv 
Mwoellanv'  (Shomik)  for  1900  by  Mr.  M. 
BmdovsH. 

Near  Jelalabad,  Andizhanski  district,  pro- 
ymoeof  Ferghana,  are  certain  mineral  sprinjjs 
n»  the  mountains  known  as  the  sprinj?s  of 
Khazret- Ayoub — i.e ,  holy  Job.  According:  to 
local  tradition,  more  than  five  thousand  years 
•©)  the  righteous  Job,  with  his  wife,  eleven 
jooji,  and  three  dauorhters,  lived  in  happiness 
jgdaffiaence  in  the  Kugartski  valley.  Shaitan 
WttX  joitloas  of  the  saint  whom  he  could 


not  lead  astray,  told  the  Lord  God  that  Job's 
righteousness  and  faith  would  vanish  if  he 
were  afflicted  by  adversity.  Accordingly,  the 
saint  was  delivered  over  to  temptation,  and 
deprived  of  children,  substance,  and  health. 
His  body  was  covered  with  wounds  which 
swarmed  with  worms  and  exhaled  a  foul 
odour,  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  valley 
compelled  him  to  seek  refuge  in  the  mountains. 
There  lay  Khazret  -  Ayoub  in  sickness  for 
seven  years,  but  remained  faithful  to  God. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  came  an  angel  from 
God  with  a  message  of  mercy.  The  angel 
took  the  sufferer's  hand,  whereupon  the  worms 
fell  from  his  wounds  on  the  ground.  A  hot 
soring  gushed  forth  where  his  right  foot  was 
planted  :  the  saint  bathed,  and  the  wounds 
were  healed.  This  spring  is  known  as 
Chashma-i-shifo,  the  fount  of  healing.  Ayoub 
took  seven  st«ps,  and  where  his  left  foot 
stopped  a  cold  spring  burst  out.*  He  drank 
a  draught,  and  felt  completely  restored.  This 
spring  is  called  Ckaskma-t-doifa,  the  fount  of 
internal  purification.  Rejoicing  in  sound 
health,  Khazret  -  Ayoub  noticed  a  heap  of 
worms  on  the  ground,  which  had  lately 
infested  his  wounds,  and  drew  his  staff  round 
them.  Like  Aaron's  rod  or  the  staff  in 
*Tannhauser,' Job's  staff  broke  into  foliage  and 
became  a  beautiful  mulberry  tree  :  the  worms 
crawled  thereon,  fed  on  the  leaves,  spun 
cocoons,  and  yielded  the  first  silk  for  dress 
material.  The  angel  pointed  out  to  Ayoub's 
wife — Bibi-Rakhima,  who  had  tended  him 
through  long  years  of  suffering — a  spring  of 
warm  water  near  at  hand.  She  bathed,  and 
recovered  all  the  charms  of  vouth.  This 
spring  received  the  name  of  Kiz-htdah^  the 
fount  of  virginity. 

The  saint  settled  here  permanently,  as  the 
springs  furnished  all  he  needed  for  the  house- 
hold. He  left  an  account  of  his  life  on  a 
large  stone  which  lay  near  the  fount  of 
virginity,  but  unfortunately  this  was  shat- 
tered by  robbers  in  search  of  supposed 
treasures  left  behind  by  Ayoub.  The  frag- 
ments have  long  since  been  carried  away  by 
pious  pilgrims  to  the  saint's  shrine  in  the 
mosque.  On  the  walls  round  the  tomb  are  hung 
different  stones  and  horns  of  mountain  sheep 
left  by  pilgrims.  Near  the  tomb  of  Bibi- 
Rakhima  lies  a  stone  in  the  form  of  a  cradle 
of  the  locality ;  a  sterile  woman  of  honourable 
character  has  only  to  sit  on  it  for  a  short 
time  to  obtain  power  of  bearing,  and  the 
many    gaily  -  coloured    rags    adorning    the 

•  As  these  flprinpra  are  45  arAhtwt  apart.,  Joh  must 
have  made  considerable  atrides  to  cover  the  jfround 
in  seven  naccs,  as  the  narrator  observes.  An  arthin 
equals  2  ft.  4  in. 


64 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»^s.vn.jAN.  26,1901. 


neighbouring  trees  form  the  grateful  oflfer- 
ings  of  women  whose  prayers  have  been 
heard. 

On  the  road  leading  to  the  springs,  which 
are  much  visited  by  Russian  and  other 
invalids,  is  the  tomb  of  Umala-khodzha- 
sheikh,  accordine  to  tradition  a  descendant 
of  Khazret-AyouD  and  the  ancestor  of  some 
fifty  inhabitants  of  the  place,  who  enjoy  the 
revenue  of  the  mosque  alter  a  certain  portion 
has  been  allotted  for  maintenance  of  the 
building  and  tombs.  These  worthy  folk 
trace  their  genealogy  by  documents.  Umala 
himself  is  not  honoured  as  Khuzrtt^  holy. 

It  is  evident,  remarks  Mr.  Brodovski,  that 
Central-Asian  Mussulmans  have  connected 
Biblical  narratives  with  different  localities 
in  Turkestan.  The  founder  of  Islam  intro- 
duced into  the  Koran  the  names  of  Hebrew 
prophets  and  heroes,  and  with  the  spread  of 
Islam  these  have  become  associated  with 
certain  spots.  Thus  the  Mussulmans  point 
out  at  Samarcand  the  tomb  of  the  Prophet 
Daniel,  at  Osha  the  throne  of  King  Solomon, 
at  the  village  of  Sariam  (Chimkent  district] 
the  tomb  of  St.  Mary  and  even  of  Enoch,  and 
near  Jelalabad  the  tomb  of  the  much-suffer- 
ing, patient  patriarch  Job.  The  faith  of  sick 
Moslems  in  the  efficacy  of  the  springs  is 
intensified,  and  the  guardian  of  the  mosque 
and  tombs  reaps  a  considerable  profit.  The 
silkworms  have  not  been  forgotten,  and 
furnish  a  thriving  industry  for  the  district 
Feancis  p.  Maechant. 
Brixton  HilL 


ST.  CLEMENT  DANES. 
In  the  Morning  Post  for  26  December,  1900. 
there  appeared  an  article  on  the  'Strana 
Churches,*  in  which  the  writer,  Mr.  Austin 
Brereton,  asked  why  the  dedication  to  St. 
Clement  should  arise  from  the  fact  (a  fact 
which,  I  may  observe  en  oa««an<,  is  very  ques- 
tionable) that  "Harola  and  other  Danish 
kings"  are  buried  in  that  church.  In  the 
issue  of  the  same  journal  for  28  December  an 
able  writer,  signing  himself  H.,  contributed  a 
letter  in  which  he  pointed  out  that  there  were 
two  possible  explanations  of  this  dedication. 
This  letter  is  so  interesting  that  I  would  beg 
permission  to  quote  it  in  full.  Firstly,  the 
writer  says, 

"  like  the  famous  church  at  Hastings,  St.  Clement 
Danes  was  dedicated  during  the  Pontificate  of  Pope 
Clement  II.  (Suid^er,  Bishop  of  Bamberg,  a  Saxon, 
A.D.  1046-7),  and,  in  compliment  to  him,  was  named 
after  his  patron  Pope,  St.  Clement  I.  (a.d.  93-101), 
known  as  Clemens  Romanus,  to  whom  the  famous 
Basilica  of  San  Clemente,  near  the  Colosseum  at 
Rome,  is  dedicated.  (2)  Because,  as  is  represented 
in  the  frescoes  of  the  ninth  century  on  the  walls 


of  San  Clements,  Clement  I.  was  martyred  at 
Kertch  in  the  Crimea,  a  country  which^n  the 
very  loose  googra])hical  terminolo^  of  Western 
martyrologieR,  may  have  been  incluoed  in  the  term 
'  Dacia,'  a  country  which  at  one  time  certainly  ex- 
tended as  far  as  tlie  Dniester.  The  confusion  in 
the  chroniclers  between  *  Daci '  and  *  Dani '  (Danes) 
is  well  known,  as  is  also  the  fact  that  a  Teutonic 
language,  descended  from  the  Gothic,  was  spoken 
in  remote  parts  of  the  Crimea  as  late  as  the  six- 
teenth centui-y.  In  support  of  this  theory  I  may 
add  that  in  the  *Nibelungen  Lied'  (Aventiure  22, 
SUnzas  133S>48)  Hawart  and  Trine  of  Tenemarke 
(in  the  twelfth  century  certainly  Denmark)  are 
coupled  with  Russians,  Greeks,  Poles,  Wallachs. 
Knights  from  Kief,  and  Pechenaers  (Don  Cossacks) 
as  attending  the  court  of  Attila,  the  only  Middle 
German  at  which  was  Trufrit  of  Diiringen 
(Thuringia).  Here  a  confusion  between  Dacia  and 
Dania  may  well  be  suspected,  more  especially  as 
down  to  the  end  of  the  classic  period  the  Danes 
were  certainly  known  as  Cimbri  to  all  the  nations 
of  the  Mediterranean  and  Roman  world,  while  the 
Crimea  was  known  as  the  Tauric  and  Jutland  as 
the  Cimbric  Chersonese,  another  possible  source  of 
error,  Kertch,  moreover,  being  anciently  known  as 
Kherson.  I  am  not  aware  whether  this  explana- 
tion of  the  connexion  of  St.  Clement  with  the 
*  Danish '  church  in  the  Strand  has  ever  before  been 
suggested,  and  I  should  much  like  to  know  if  in  any 
of  the  early  charters  connected  with  it  *  Daci,' as  so 
often  in  the  chroniclers,  is  written  for  *  Dani.'  A 
dedication  to  Saint  Clement  Dacorum  (of  the 
Crimea)  would  not  seem  misplaced  to  any  on«  who 
was  acquainted  with  the  Roman  San  C1em«nte, 
which,  before  its  destruction  in  1064  by  the  Norman 
Robert  Guiscard,  must  have  been  one  of  the  moat 
famous  churches  in  Rome,  and  remarkable  especially 
for  its  frescoes  with  the  history  of  it«  patron.  Simi- 
lar dedications  derived  from  Roman  churches  may 
be  found  in  St.  Paul's,  in  St.  Gregory  by  St.  Faith's 
in  its  immediate  neighbourhood,  and  at  St.  Cosmas 
and  St.  Damian  in  the  Blean,  near  Canterbury,  to 
take  the  first  early  ones  which  come  to  hand,  and  it 
is  well  known  how  close  the  connexion  between  Eng- 
land and  Rome  during  the  whole  Saxon  period  was." 

As  the  Question  raised  by  this  writer, 
though  hignly  interesting  in  itself,  is  ob- 
viously unsuited  for  discussion  in  the  columns 
of  a  daily  paper,  I  will  endeavour  to  answer 
it  through  the  medium  of  *N.  &  Q.' 

I  am  not  sure  of  the  existence  of  any  early 
charters  connected  with  the  church,  the 
foundation  of  which  may  probably  be  ascribed 
to  a  much  earlier  date  than  that  assigned  to 
it  by  H.,  but  in  legal  documents  the  almost 
invariable  designation  of  the  building  is 
'*  ecclesia  Sancti  dementis  Dacorum.^  I  will 
take  an  example  or  two.  In  the  Harleian 
MS.  No.  708,  containing  minutes  from  In- 
quisitions post  mortem  relating  to  Middle- 
sex, of  which  a  copy  was  printed  in  the 
Topographer  and  bfenealogist^  L  621,  the 
following  extracts  occur : — 

"  16  Edw.  III.— Thomas  de  Craweford  harbour 
tenuit  de  Re^  in  capite  quoddam  tenementum  oum 
pertinentiis  in  paroebia  Sancti  Clomeatis  JMooram 


9^  8.  Vll.  Jan.  26, 1901.1        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


65 


extra  Bams  Novi  Templi  London,  in  liberum 
■ocaniom  per  servioium  xviijrf.  per  annnm  ad 
•eaccarinm  Regis  solvend.  Quodque  Johannes  filius 
dicti  Thomae  est  hseres,  kcsJ'—Y.  231. 

•'  17  Bdw.  IIL— Rogerus  le  Marshall  tenuit  die 
quo  obiit  in  dominio  8uo  ut  de  feodo  de  Reire  in 
libemm  socagiam  mesuaginm  cum  pertinentiis  in 
^rochia  Sancti  Clement  is  Dacorum  extra  Barram 
Novi  Templi  London.  i>eT  servitium  vj.  ferr. 
•qaomni  cum  clavis  ad  ea  pertinen.  et  iiijrf.  ad 
•cacoarinm  RcMps  pro  omni  servitio  annuatim 
reddend.  Qaodgae  Johanna  et  Johanna  sunt  filiae 
et  hsredes,  &ca.^— F.  2:»b. 

This  last  inquisition  gives  a  curious  instance 
of  a  man  having  two  daughters  of  the  same 
name,  and  it  also  possesses  other  interesting 
features  on  which  I  do  not  now  propose  to 
enter. 

Sarrounding  the  church  was  a  small  col- 
lection of  houses,  which  was  known  as  a 
"vicus."  This  "vicus,"  which  was  some- 
times known  as  "Vicus  Dacorum"  and 
sometimes  as  "Vicus  Sancti  dementis,"  is 
frequently  mentioned  in  early  records.  I  may 
refer  to  the  following  entries  in  Messrs. 
Hardy  and  Page's  *  Calendar  to  the  Feet  of 
Fines  for  London  and  Middlesex,'  vol  i., 
Na  48  (7  Henry  IIT.),  p.  16;  No.  73  (14 
Henry  IILX  p.  18  ;*  No.  103  (17  Henry  m.), 
p.  20;  No.  150  (23  Henry  III),  p.  23;  and 
No.  409  (44  Henry  in.),  p.  41.  That  in  these 
documents  "  Daci "  was  equivalent  to  •*  Dani," 
or  was  perhaps  an  abbreviation  of  "  Danici," 
is.  I  think,  clearly  proved  by  another  name 
which  occasionally  is  met  with  in  the  fines. 
This  is  "  Densemanestret,"  No.  108  (18 
Henry  ITT.),  p.  20 ;  No.  180  (23  Henry  m.X 
p.  25 ;  Na  258  (31  Henry  III.),  p.  30  :  or 
*l>en9chemanparosch,"No.441  (50  Henry  ITT.), 
p.  43.  This  was  evidently  the  street  or  parish 
of  the  Danish  men,  and  was  the  English 
equivalent  of  the  Latin  "  Vicus  "  or  "  Parochia 
Dacorum." 

A  map  of  the  Strand  in  those  days  would 
have  shown  another  church  and  village  to  the 
westward— the  church  of  the  Holy  Innocents, 
wiih  its  encircling  "  Vicus  Innocentium.*  To 
the  north  was  the  hamlet  of  Aldwych,  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Clement  Danes,  and  to  the  south 
the  highway  leading  to  Charing,  and  known 
aa  the  "Vicus  de  Stranda,"  or,  shortlv,  as  "la 
Htraunde."  From  Charing  the  '*  Vicus  de 
WoRtmonasterio  "  led  by  the  "  Regalia  Strata," 
or  King  Street,  to  the  Palace  and  Abbey  and 
w  moor  beyond  which  held  the  drainage  of 
Tothill  and  St.  Ermin's. 

W.  F.  Prideaux. 
ntinagate. 

•  In  thw  fine  is  recorded  a  conveyance  to  Walter 
SyagMjiw,  who  may  have  been  an  ancestor  of 
«|»  to  Mmball,  whose  Inq.  p.ni.  is  noted  above. 


"  Keel."— It  is  well  known  that  there  are 
more  words  than  one  siaelt  keel  in  English, 
two  of  which  have  sometimes  been  mixed  up 
or  confounded.  These  are  keel\  the  bottom 
timber  or  ridge  of  a  boat  or  ship=L.  carina, 
and  keel\  the  local  name  of  a  kind  of  river 
and  canal  boat  now  or  formerly  used  on  the 
east  coast  of  England  from  the  Tyne  to  the 
Yare  and  the  Norfolk  Broads.  The  latter 
has  the  interest  of  being,  if  not  descended 
from,  yet  cognate  with  the  three  cedkis  or 
cj/ulas  in  which,  tradition  said,  Hengst  and 
Hors  first  brought  their  forces  to  Britain.  In 
preparing  the  article  on  this  word  keel  in  the 
*  Dictionary*  I  have  received  from  Me.  R. 
Oliver  Heslop,  of  Newcastle,  a  distinguished 
authority  on  Northern  words  and  things, 
whose  'Northumberland  Words'  is  one  of 
the  most  important  of  the  splendid  series 
of  local  glassaries  published  by  the  English 
Dialect  Society,  an  account  of^  the  keel  used 
on  the  river  Tyne.  This  contains  much  more 
information  than  I  am  able  to  incorporate  in 
the  *  Dictionary ';  and  as  I  think  it  important 
to  place  the  whole  upon  record,  for  the  benefit 
of  present  and  future  inquirers,  I  venture  to 
send  it  to  *  N.  &  Q.,'  to  which  I  will  refer 
readers  of  the  *  Dictionary '  for  more  detailed 
information.  J.  A.  H.  Murray. 

The  following  is  Mr.  Heslop's  account  of 
the  keel : — 

The  old  coal  keel  of  the  Tyne  was 
originally  a  carvel-built  vessel,  about  forty- 
two  feet  in  length  by  nineteen  feet  in  the 
beam.  It  was  used  for  carrying  coals  from 
the  staiths  or  **  dykes  "  erected  on  the  banks 
of  the  upper  waters  of  the  Tyne  to  the 
ships  lying  in  the  lower  parts  of  the 
harbour,  and  was  therefore  adapted  for 
navigating  the  shallows  of  the  higher  reaches 
of  the  river.  It  carried  eight  chaldrons  of 
coal  of  53  cwts.  each,  making  a  cargo  of  424 
cwts.  of  coal,  and  when  thus  loaded  the 
draught  of  a  keel  was  about  four  feet  six 
inches. 

The  keel  had  one  square  sail  carried  on  a 
light  mast,  which  could  be  unshipped  to 
allow  of  passage  under  the  arches  of  the 
Tyne  Bridge.  In  the  absence  of  a  fair  wind, 
in  the  deeper  parts  of  the  river,  the  keel  was 
rowed  by  the  united  exertion  of  the  four 
"hands"  who  formed  the  crew,  and  were 
familiarly  spoken  of  as  the  *' keel-bull ias." 
The  rowing  was  done  by  one  heavy  oar, 
which  was  worked  over  the  starboard  side 
of  the  bow  by  three  of  the  crew,  whilst  the 
skipper  kept  the  course  or  steered  by  means 
of  a  lighter  oar,  called  the"swape,"  worked 
by  him  on  the  aide  opposite  to  the  lar^e  oar^ 


66 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*  a  vn.  jan.  26.  iwi. 


and  used  near  the  stern.  In  shallow  waters 
an  alteniative  method  of  propulsion,  called 
"setting,"  was  adopted.  This  was  done  by 
means  of  long  poles,  called  **  puoys,**  which 
the  keel  men  shot  down  to  the  pottom  of  the 
river  and  thrust  upon  with  their  shoulders. 

About  the  forties  or  earlier  the  square  rig 
had  become  almost  entirely  displaced  by  the 
introduction  of  the  fore-and-aft  rig  on  a 
single  lowering  mast.  The  jib  was  carried 
from  the  stem  without  a  bowsprit,  and  the 
trisail  was  stretched  from  a  very  long  sprit 
fastened  to  the  lower  part  of  the  mast.  About 
the  same  period  carvel  building  became 
superseded,  and  keels  of  clinker  build,  then 
introduced,  have  continued  to  this  day. 
Yeiisels  of  smaller  cargo  capacity  than  the 
keel,  but  modelled  on  its  lines,  were  also 
introduced  with  clinker  building,  and  these 
are  now  termed  "  wherries." 

As  the  coal  seams  lying  on  the  western 
outcrop  of  the  field  became  worked  out,  and 
collieries  were  developed  with  means  of 
direct  shipment,  and  as  railway  transit  was 
introduced,  the  number  of  keels  diminished 
annually,  so  much  so'  that  at  the  present  day, 
as  far  as  the  trade  of  coal  shipment  is  con- 
cemed,  they  are  practically  superseded.  Yet 
"  keels  "  of  modem  build  are  still  in  use  for 
conveying  coal  to  riverside  manufactories 
and  carrying  their  products. 

"  Keel-boat,"  found  in  some  Acts  of  Parlia- 
ment,  is  a  pleonasm  unknown  in  the  spoken 
language.  To  a  Tynesider  "keel -boat" 
sounds  ridiculous ;  he  talks  of  "  a  keel " 
invariably,  and  of  a  "keel" only. 

"  Keel,"  a  measure  of  coal— eight  Newcastle 
chaldrons  or  twenty-one  and  onp-fifth  tons, 
originating  in  the  quantity  carried  by  a  keel, 
is  not  yet  quite  obsolete.  Sailing  vessels  for 
certain  Baltic  and  Spanish  Mediterranean 
ports  are  still  occasionally  chartered  "  t/>  load 
a  full  and  complete  cargo  of  fso  many]  keelfl 
of  coal."  Coke,  a  lighter  substance  than 
coal,  when  reckoned  by  the  keel,  is  calculated 
as  a  measure  of  fifteen  tons.  But,  for  freight- 
age purposes,  the  usage  of  referring  to  ships 
as  of  so  many  keels  burthen  has,  since  1863, 
gradually  become  disused,  and  to-day  all 
sales  of  coals  and  coke  are  made,  and  all 
steamers  are  chartered,  by  the  ton.  And  yet 
the  charges  made  for  "trimmage"  on  the 
river  Tyne  and  at  Blyth  for  all  classes  of 
vessels  are  still  computed  by  the  keel. 

R.  Oliveb  Heslop. 

"Insubribction."— A  curious  use  of  the 
terms  insurrection  and  inmirg^s  is  to  be 
noticed  in  a  book,  "  La  Guerre  de  la  Suc- 
oesaion  d'Autriche,  par  le  Major  Z — ,"  pub- 1 


lished  by  the  military  library  of  Chapelot, 
of  Paris,  the  successors  of  Baudoiu.  The 
Hungarian  universal  service  of  ancient  days 
was  called  in  Hungarian  Latin  (then  the 
official  language)  indifferently  by  the  names 
mtlttia  or  tnsurrectio.  The  French  author, 
who  is  said  to  be  the  well-known  military 
writer  Commandant  Weil,  translates  ^  in- 
surrectio  personalis,  that  is  "  personal  service," 
in  many  passages  by  the  French  insurrection, 
and  seems  to  suggest  that  Frenchmen  in  the 
present  day  can  understand  insurrection  as 
used  for  a  general  rising  on  the  side  of  the 
Crown,  as  well  as  in  the  usual  fashion  for  a 
rising  against  the  Crown.  D. 

Bttrns.— Flome  time  ago  I  met  with  a  book 
that  had  belonged  to  the  poet  Bums,  with  a 
number  of  notes  in  his  handwriting.  It  is  a 
thin  qusrto,  in  the  original  binding,  and  en- 
titled "  The  Patriots :  or,  an  Evening  Proapect 
on  the  Atlantic.  In  which  some  Noted  Political 
Characters  are  delineated  :  with  Strictures  on 
Ladies  who  hfeve  distinguished  themselves  in 
the  Fashionable  Modes  of  Gallantry.  London, 
1777."  There  is  no  author's  name  to  it,  but  a 
note  by  Bums  says,  "  By  John  Inglis.  School- 
master, Canonorate,  Edinburgh,  an  Essay  to 
procure  from  Goverfnlment  a  place  or  pen- 
sion." At  the  foot  of  the  first  page  of  the 
preface,  which  appears  to  have  been  written 
with  a  view  to  allay  the  rebellious  spirit  of 
the  Americans  and  induce  them  to  return 
to  the  obedience  of  their  king  (George  IILX 
is  the  following  note  of  Bums's : — 

"We  should  imagine  the  author  an  Amerioao, 
he  was  a  Scotchman.  I  do  not  know  if  he  was 
anhamcd  of  hia  country,  his  country  might  well  be 
ashamed  of  him." 

Further  on  in  his  preface  the  author 
praises 

"  a  (rlorious  band  of  men — who  will  long  adorn  the 
British  annals— viz..  Lord  N— th.  Lord  George 
O— ne,  the  acute  and  ingenious  M'  Alexander 
W—ne,  Solicitor,  Hon—  H—  D— s,  Lord  Advocate 
for  Scotland,"  &c. 

Bums  has  written  in  the  margin  opposite : — 

"  Infernal  Villains.  No,  they  are  the  ministers 
of  him  who  is  called  y*  beet  of  Princes  k  he  is  no 
doubt  as  much  so  as  he  is  the  Wisest" 

At  the  end  of  the  preface,  opposite  to  "gracious 
sovereign,"  Burns  writes : — 

'*  Whom  Junius  calls  y*  best  of  Princes,  a  man 
whoso  Wisdom  is  only  to  be  ejqualled  by  his  Virtue 
&  we  do  not  know  w«*»  of  his  Virtues  we  should 
admire  most,  his  humanity,  contempt  of  money,  or 
love  of  Peace.  The  clergy  may  truely  say  y*  he  has 
a  saving  knowledge." 

After  the  preface,  on  a  blank  page,  the  poet 
has  written : — 


••avu.j«.».iwj.i      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


67 


Thott  lotny  Ped^t,  let  thy  Awkward  mue© 
With  ceoBured  pmso  w*  ffatt^riefi  abuse 
To  lub  and  not  be  fell  in  thee  *&  an  Art, 
ThoQ  ne'er  luiwi'fit  any  but  thy  Scbi>olboyB  emart 
If  ...»..*  immortAlwork«  thou  would  at  descry  [iricj 
P^t«Dd  'Us  be  that  writ  thy  Poetry. 

Then   Ibllov   two   linoa   scrawled    throughj 
which  appear  to  read  thus  :— 

Aloi  he  never  had  veme  in  |)ret«nce 
Or  loved  commecded  rtiimit;:  senoe* 

At  p.  10  U  *' J.  S.  304/*  and  at  p.  50  :— 

They  swear  I  am  lo  good 

I  hug  them  till  I  aqueeze  their  blood. 

Swift. 

Ptobftbly  referred  to  as  plagiarisms  from  the 
writiDgs  of  Swift. 
At  the  end  Biiri]s  writea  i— 

''The  poor  AQthor  expected  he  would  at  ]ea«t  be 
mado  a  CommiaeioDet  of  Excise  for  wnttng  tbit 
eicelletit  Poem.  He  died  on  the  Ig^  of  Feb'?  1786 
(without  obtaining  either  plate  or  peoaion)  at  Eight 
in  the  Evenipg  of  a  coaaum^jtion.  Almoat  the  whole 
InopcvHioti  wae  found  by  him  ujaaoldj  and  was  dia- 
wmdoi  to  a  Snuflf  8hop.  This  copy  may  very  weU 
be  looked  on  as  a  curioaity.  There  ii  not  1  believe 
another  extant*'* 

Aato^raph  at  the  beginning  of  the  book, 
;*Laing,  Edin^  1819—5^^743.^  This  ioterest- 
ing  ToIiuDe  was  bought  by  an  American. 

Heney  T,  Wake. 
^^tchley,  Derby. 

LdZARD  FoLE-LOKE,  —  Mohammed  would 
pot  eat  of  the  large  lizard,  for  *'  he  thought 
it  might  have  been  the  bea^it  into  which  a 
party  of  the  Children  of  Israel  were  changed ; 
OQt  he  said  there  waf{  no  harm  in  others 
eating  it"  This  tradition  is  quoted  by  Sir 
William  Muir  in  his  'Life  of  Mahomet' 
(London J  1877,  p.  537)*  This  is  a  legend 
which  I  do  not  remember  to  have  met  else- 
where. William  K  A  Axon, 

Maoebeater. 


This  is  all  nonsense  (as  a  matter  of  his- 
tory). It  is  merely  a  nfcAanffe  of  the  story 
told  of  Attorney  -  General  Noy  (1577-1634), 
and  also  of  Lord  Egerton,  wliich  is  found 
in  many  old  collections  of  fa^tim  and 
popular  stories.  It  appears  in  Valerius  Maxi- 
mus,  and  also  in  Indian  tales  bearing  on  the 

*  Bindibad.*  In  some  of  the  tale»  it  is  the 
precocious  child  who  suggest*  the  ingenious 
defence-  Probably  it  would  take  too  much 
space  to  enter  into  its  ramifications,  but 
reference  may  be  mad©  to  the  article  in 
Clous  ton's  'Popular  Tales  and  Fiction' 
(1887),  ii.  Ij  and  further  analogues  may 
be  found  in  the  references  given  by 
Oeaterley  to  cap.  118  in  his  edition  of  the 
*Gesta  Romanorum'  1872  (Berlin),   Jacobs's 

*  iEsop/  i*  264,  and  Oesterley's  edition  of 
Pauli^s  *  Schimpf  und  Ern«t ' (Stuttgart),  1866, 
No-  113,  p.  485  \  but  it  is  only  fair  to  warn 
the  reader  that  many  of  these  references 
really  refer  to  another  story  of  money  trusted, 
the  subject  of  the  story  of  Boccaccio's  '  Deca- 
meron/ Day  viii.  No.  10. 

A.   COUJKGWOOD  LfiE. 
Waitbam  Abbey,  Kaaex. 


"MoHTY  TB0STED,"— In  PubUc  Opinion  of 
21  December,  1900  (no  source  quoted),  there 
is  giyen  a  story  of  how  Lord  Brougham 
obtained  his  fimt  brief,  which  \h  shortly  as 
follows.  He  offered  to  conduct  the  case  of  an 
innkeeper  to  whom  three  men  hflLd  entrusted 
%WM.  for  safe  custody,  and  only  to  be  paid 
over  to  all  three  jointly*  (Jne  of  them 
obtained  back  the  2.000^.  from  him  by  a 
plausible  excuse,  and  the  two  others  then 
claimed  it  in  an  action  at  law.  Brougham's 
defence  was  that  the  money  would  be  repaid  on 
the  Court  ordering  to  be  produced  all  the  three 
men  according  to  the  bargain,  which  was 
not  done. 

"  Qy.  Franklin. 


We  must  requeat  correapondentB  deairing  infor- 
mation on  finmOy  matters  of  only  priviito  interest 
to  adix  their  nameH  and  addr^B&a  to  their  ^ueriee, 
in  order  that  the  anAwere  may  be  addressed  to  theni 
direcL 

A  Karb  Edition  of  Pehn ant's  'Toues  iir 
Wales/  — Pen  nan  k  the  antiquary,  issued  a 
special  edition  of  his  *  Toui*s  in  Wales.*  It 
excelled  his  two- volume  ordinary  quarto  edi- 
tion in  two  particulars— in  the  profusion 
and  character  of  its  Elustrations  and  the 
printing^  it  being  on  a  larger  and  better  quarto 
paper  with  wider  margins  to  the  letterpress. 
It  was  made  up  into  twenty  volumes.  The 
Snowdoniftn  section  was  formed  into  a  work 
by  itself.  Besides  many  engravings,  the  other 
illustrations  were  hand- pain teu  drawings 
of  Welsh  scenery,  local  views,  local  anti- 
quarian remains,  armorial  bearings  in  heraldic 
colimrs  of  Weiiih  pertionage^  and  families  of 
distinction,  with  numerous  sketches  of  things 
of  historical  and  antiquarian  interest.  Many 
of  the  drawinga  were  admirable  works  in 
water  colour.  The  whole  was  the  sole  work, 
for  each  copy,  of  Mr.  Griffi^th,  Pennant's 
artist  and  companion  in  travel.  Only  twelve 
copies  of  the  *Tour*  and  ten  of  'Snowdonia' 
were  issued.  I  append  a  list— given  me  by 
Sir  Thomas  Phillipps,  F.S.A.,  Middlehill, 
Worcestershire,  the  well-known  antiquary— 


68 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»*  s.  va  Jax.  ae,  iwl 


of  the  posiesaora,  who  I  presymo  W6r«  the< 
original  subs^criberi*.  Sir  Thoma!?  brought  a 
very  fine  copy,  bound  in  red  morocco,  in 
twenty  volumes,  for  exhibition  to  the  annual 
general  meeting  of  the  Cambrian  Archieo- 
logical  Association  at  Bolgelly  in  1S50.  I 
haa  the  pleasure  of  spending  some  time  with 
Bir  Thomas  Pbiltipps  at  liis  residence  at 
Mirldlehill  in  1856-7.  The  following  ia  the 
lijft  with  which  he  kindly  supplied  me:— 
Tour^  Snoifdonm.  In  ike  pon^tM^imt  of 

1      ^"        I      ...       Thomas  Pennant,  Esq. 

1      ".        1      ...       K  \\.  Trent  Chiawell,  Eaq. 

1      ...        1      ...       Richard  Bull,  Maq. 

1      ...       1      ,..       Sir  W.  W.  Wytiti,  Bart. 

1      -.'        I      ,.,       Anthony  Store r,  Esq. 

1      ,-.        1      ...      Sir  William  Burrell. 

1      ...       —     ...       Lady  Lloyd. 

I      ...       —     ,..       Bes troy ed  by  Mr,  Pennant. 

1      ...       1      ...       Destroyed  l^  Mr.  Chiawdl. 

^     .--        2      ...       R^nnain  in  Mr.  Chiawell's  poa- 


3 


1      ,..       Gave    Mr*    White   the   book 

seller. 
—     ...       Robson    the  bookseller    hod, 
which,  being  defective,  he 
destroyed. 

My  query  v^  Who  are  the  happy  possessors 
at  the  present  time  of  this  rare  work,  and 
where  is  Sir  Thomas  Pbillipps's  copy  ? 

I  saw  in  the  library  at  \Vj-nnstay,  in  1876, 
two  volumes  of  Sir  Watlcin  W.  Wynn's  copy* 
being  evidently  the  only  portion  of  it  saved 
from  the  great  fire  that  occurred  there. 

Thos.  W.  Hancock. 

Blankets.  —  In  the  Gloht  newspaper  for 
29  December,  1900,  is  an  article  on  *  Blankets,' 
giving  an  account  of  thera  from  a.b.  1340, 
with  suggestions  as  to  the  name  of  the  first 
maker,  "Thomas  Blanket,"  and  wliere  he  lived. 
Bristol  is  named,  and  also  Worcester.  Near 
the  latter  town  there  is,  or  was  many  years 
ago,  an  old  country  house,  about  a  mile  on 
the  north  side  of  the  town,  which  was  called 
"  The  Blankets,"  and  for  many  ye^rs  was  a 
boa rdLn^^' house.  Can  any  of  your  readers 
supply  information  about  the  association  of 
the  name  with  Worcester  and  the  manu- 
facture of  blankets  ?  P*-M. 

TiNKHAME  Family.  ™  Edward  Glannlle 
married  at  Ashburton,  24  October,  1703, 
Uharitj,  daughter  of Tinkhame.  Is  any- 
thing further  known  of  her  connexions  T 

G.  L.  G. 

Sbejbant  Okorge  Hill,  17 16-1 80S. —Who 
were  the  parents  of  this  learned  lawyer? 
The  *Dict.  Nat.  Biog.,*  vol  xnxl  p.  393,  merely 
says  that  he  was  "  of  an  old  Northampton- 
shire family,"  which  was  apparently  settl^ 
at  HothweU.    To  this  family  belonged  An  no 


Hill,  mother  of  the  wife  of  Thomas  Perev 
(1720-1811),  Bishop  of  Dromore  (see  Nichols* 
*  Lit.  Illustr.,'  vol,  vi.  p.  582).  Serjeant  Hill 
joined  the  Middle  Temple  5  January,  1733^ 
and  was  called  to  the  bar  27  November,  174L 
He  was  not  admitted  at  Linc^^ln's  Inn  until 
25  April,  1765,  H,  a 

D'Auvergnb:  Family.  — Can  any  of  your 
readers  inform  me  where  I  can  obtain  par- 
ticulars of  the  above  family  1 

Admiral  Philip  D'Auvergne,  Prince  of 
Bouillon^  died  in  1816,  and  was  buried  in 
St.  Margaret^s  Church,  Westminster.  He  wa.H 
descended  from  the  Rev.  Edward  D'Auvergne^ 
rector  of  Great  Hallingbury  in  1705,  who 
was  son  of  Philip  D'Auvergne,  of  Jersey. 
There  was  also  a  General  Philip  D'Auvergne, 
born  in  1763  and  died  at  Delhi  in  1818,  whme 
daughter  married  Col,  Barnard,  of  Dun  mow. 
If  any  authentic  pedigree  exists  of  this 
family,  I  shall  be  much  obliged  for  the  refer- 
ence. IKKES. 

Motto  foe  Laundry  Porch.— I  should  be 
much  obliged  to  any  one  wlio  would  suggest 
a  good  motto  to  be  inscribed  on  the  porch  of 
a  laundry.  C  J,  B. 

Burke  on  Malvern.— In  1817  John  Cham- 
bers published  his  *  General  History  of  Mal- 
vern, and  placed  upon  the  title-page  this 
motto :  *'  I  like  your  Malvern  hiUa,  they 
look  like  a  gre-at  oack-bone  to  the  county  of 
Hereford, —  Burke,"  On  p.  vli  the  author 
states  that  thi»  raying  was  reported  to  him 
by  Dr.  Woody  at  t,  of  Worcester,  to  whom 
Mr.  Burke  made  the  remark  when  they  were 
both  under  the  mulberry  tree  in  the  garden 
of  the  Rev.  James  Birt,  Canon  Residentiary 
of  Hereford,  Master  of  St,  Catharine's  Hos- 
pital, Ledbury,  and  Vicar  of  Lydney.  This 
was  "in  the  year  1800,  the  year  before  Mr. 
Birt  died."  This  is  a  confuaea  account,  for  it 
does  not  say  where  the  garden  was,  whether 
at  Hereford.  Ledbury,  or  Lydne^^ ;  and  Ed- 
mund Burke  died  in  1797.  As  this  sentence 
is  often  quoted  in  books  about  Malvern,  it 
would  be  well  to  ascertain  its  real  origin. 
The  families  of  Woody att  and  Ha.sling8  were 
connected  C  D.N.B.,*  xxv.  112  a). 

W,  C<  B. 

**Attitr  Acad." — Minsheu  gives  **  Inter- 
lopers in  trade  If  Attur  Acad,  pa  mT  What 
is  the  meaning  of  the  reference  1 

W.  Crooke, 

Langton  Houses  Charlton  Kinge. 

Rose  and  Zor21  Families.— By  the  will  of 
W>  Stewart  Rose,  who  died  at  Brighton, 
%1  May,  1641,  he  leaves  everything  to  his 


9*B.vn.jAK.a6.iwi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


69 


Wife,  ^^lareella  Oondulmer,  save  what  may  be 
choaCD  by  his  brother  and  sister.  The  eon  of 
MArcella  was  **  Count  Zonsi  of  Brighton."  Of 
'What  familjr  was  hel  And  where  can  I 
abtmn  information  regarding  hia  present 
repmsentativel  D,  Rl.  11. 

Abchbishop  Whately's  '  Loorc/— Lowndes 
quotes  the  editions  as  follows:  Lond.,  1827, 
8voj  IS36,  9vo,  aixthj  1844,  8vo,  eighth, 
revised;  1S50,  8vo,  ninth,  J.  W.  Parker; 
1857,  ppat  8v^  (i^id. ;  Lond.,  1848, 12mo,Luiu- 
ley;  Oxford,  1846.  12mo,  abridged  by  J. 
HiQd,  Talboys.  Allibone  thus  :  1826,  8vo ; 
1829,  8vo,  third;  1848^  12mo,  ninth;  1850, 
demy  8vo,  tenth ;  1857,  crown  8vo,  new  ; 
2f^*;"^»  1^^7,  12mo,  abridged  by  Eev,  Saml. 
Hind,  Talboys ;  1864^  post  8vo.  Can  any 
paader  rectify  these  discrepancies  1  My  own 
edition  is  as  foUowg :  "llepriuted  from  the 
iiinth  (8vo)  edition,  J.  W.  Parker,  1855."  The 
internal  evidence  showa  that  this  was  the 
second  edition  by  Parker.  F,  M, 

HolfOLITH    WITS    CUP-MABKINGS    IN    Hy1>E 

PAEK.—Recently  I  noticed  in  Hyde  Park, 
Bear  Albert  Gate,  a  monolith,  with  what 
app^red  to  be  *'cQp-njarki "  near  the  top 
m  the  atone.  The  Hecretary  to  the  Board  of 
TV  orks  has  been  good  enough  to  makeinauiries 
aa  to  ita  hiatoiy,  and  informs  me  that  although 
no  record  is  available  in  the  office,  there  is 
reason  to  believe  that  the  monolith  was  found 
on  a  mopr  in  Corn  wall  or  Devonshire,  to- 
gether with  a  number  of  other  sunilar  st>iie«, 
and  was  broaght  up  to  London  and  placed  in 
its  present  position  in  1860  or  thereabouts, 
under  the  ordf^rs  of  the  late  Mr  Cowper- 
Temple  when  First  Comiuisaioner  of  Works, 
Perhaps  some  of  your  readers  may  know 
aome thing  more  of  its  history,  which  to  those 
who,  like  myself,  are  collecting  information 
relating  to  cup-marked  stones  will  be  of 
intereat.  J.  H,  Bivett  Oaekag, 

Colonel  and  A,D.C.  to  the  Queen. 
Edbkm  Wild«ck,  SwitzefUod, 

James  Geang^  was  admitted  to  West- 
minater  School  on  13  September,  1784.  I 
should  be  glad  of  any  information  concerning 
binu  G,  F.  R.  B. 

Geoece  Goldibtg  Gheavtss  was  admitted 
to  Westminster  School  on  I  June,  1769.  Any 
information  concerning  his  parentage  and 
career  would  be  of  use*  Q.  F,  11.  B, 

^  KjmvoairE."— This  word  occurs  in  a  letter 
rritteo  by  Sir  Henry  Blake,  Governor  of 
Hong  Kong,  to  Prof,  Rhya,  and  communicated 
by  m  laUar  to  Man :  a  MantMy  Rewrd  of 


Anthropological  Sciemce^  the  first  number  of 
which  appears  the  first  month  of  this  century* 
Sir  H.  Blake  telh  us  that  "  knievogue,"  or 
little  saint,  was  the  name  given  to  a  atone, 
now  not  even  in  the  shape  of  a  human  figure, 
and  in  two  or  more  pieces,  an  object  of 
reverence  in  the  island  of  Inishkea,  south  of 
the  Mullet,  since  it  had  the  power  of  calming 
the  sea  in  great  storms  when  the  fishermen 
were  in  danger  of  their  lives,  by  bein^  brought 
out  from  its  flannel  cover  and  carried  to  the 
se^.  Itwanoncetbe  really  paramount  object 
of  worship  in  the  island.  Now%eanany  Irish 
scholar  tell  me  what  is  the  etymology  of  the 
word  **knievogue"?  Sir  H.  Blake  exfjlains 
the  word  as  meaning  **  little  saint.*'  I 
wonder  if  I  am  right  in  supposing  that 
"knievogue"  represents  Irish  naa^vk-6gh^ 
the  Ble-jsed  Virgin,  A-  L.  Mayhew, 

Ujcford. 

Old  London  Taverns,— What  was  the 
exact  location  of  the  "Five  Bella  Tavern** 
in  the  Strand,  "behind  the  new  church" 
(St.  Mary's)?  Where  were  "The  GriiHn 
Tavern  "  (1754)  in  Holborn,  and  "The  Temple 
Fating -House"  (1755)  near  Temple  Bar  I 
Has  any  one  a  print  or  drawing  of  any  of 
theae  buildings  1  J.  RosB  Robektson, 

Toronto,  Canada. 

Heraldic. — Can  any  of  your  readers  tell 
me  to  what  family  the  following  arras  belong, 
viz,,  a  chevron  engrailed  between  three 
mascles,  tinctures  unknown?  They  appear 
on  a  seal  to  a  deed  dated  at  Norwich,  1678. 

Sigma  Tau. 

Boca  Chica*— A  small  i>icco  of  land  with 
two  or  three  cottages  on  it^  situated  at  the 
mouth  of  the  river  Blyth  m  Northumber* 
land,  is  known  by  this  name.  Can  any 
correspondent  throw  a  light  on  the  mean- 
ing and  history  of  this  name  ? 

Johnson  Baily, 

Shakespeabian  AixtraioN.— 

There  was  a  ladv  once,  *tis  nn  old  story ^ 

Thai  would  notl>e  a  queeu,  that  would  she  not. 

For  all  the  mud  in  Egypt. 

'  Hen.  VIII.,'  n.  iii.  92. 

No  edition  known  to  me  states  the  source  of 
this  '*  old  story/'    What  classic  mentions  iti 
James  D,  Butler, 

Pitcher  of  Water  in  Death-Chamber,— 
In  some  parts  of  Antioquia  (Republic  of 
Colombia)  a  pitcher  of  water  is  left  standing 
in  the  deceased  s  rot^m  for  a  week  after  the 
death,  in  case  the  spirit  should  return  and 
wish  to  drink.  Has  this  anything  to  do  with 
the  Hebrew  custom  of  putting  water  for 
Azrael  to  wash  his  sword  iu^    m  ^aj^\v  (^j&k^ 


70 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p-»B.vn.  Jan.  26.1901. 


it  is  done  to  prot^ent  another  death  taking 
place  in  the  mme  house.  There  are  many 
descendants  of  Jews  in  Antioquia,  "new 
Christiana''  from  Spain  in  the  eady  Spani&h 
days.  The  type  of  face  and  character  la  well 
preserved.  Ibaqu£. 

GoBSAOE  OP  Sfratton,  Noethamfton- 
BHtBB.  —  Where  can  any  information  be 
obtained  of  this  extinct  family  I 

(Mrs.)  J.  Hautkstvtixb  Cop*, 

8ulbGuiiBtaad|  Berks. 


BEENEBS  FAMILY. 

{B*-^  S.  vi,  231,  278,  453.) 
The  property  held  by  the  Barrow  family 
in  Islington  was  the  manor  of  Newington- 
Barrow,  at    present   known    as    Highbury , 
which  subsequently  came  into  the  possession 
of  the  Knights  Hospitallers  of  St  John  of 
Jerusalem.     Thi.^    family    became    extinct 
with  Dame  Alice  of  Barrow  about  1277.    I 
cannot  find  that  the   Berners  family  inter- 
married with  the  Islington  Barrows.    Maud, 
the  daughter  of  Walter  Barrow  of  Fitzwalter, 
belonged  to  an  Essex  farailv. 

There  can  be  no  reasonable  doubt  that  the 
Bernera  family  held  the  manor  of  Iseldon 
long  prior  to    the  marriage   of    Ralph   de 
Berne rs  with  Maud  Barrow,    It  is  recorded 
in  the  Black  Book  of  the  Exchequer  that  the 
Bishop  of  London  certified,  on  the  occasion 
of  the  collection  of  an  aid  levied  in  1 2  Henry  II. 
for  the  marriage  of  the  king's  daughter,  that 
Ralph  de  Bernierea  held  the  half- part  of  a 
knight's  fee  of  the  Bishop  of  London  as  of  his 
castle  of  Stortford.  No  place  is  named  wherein 
this  and  other  knights   fee^  were  said  to  lie, 
but  from  subsequent  books  of  knights'  fees 
it  is  gathered   that   they  lay  in  Islington, 
and   the   date   of   their   creation    must    bo 
referred  to  the  reign  of  Henry  I.,  and»  in 
fact,  in  that  compilation  of  knights^  fees  con- 
tained in  the  boolc  known  as  ^  Testa  deNevill/ 
ftnd  having  reference  to  the  times  of  John, 
Henry  III.,  and  Edward  I.,  this  knight's  fee, 
as  it  subsisted  at  a  period  of  less  than  a  cen- 
tury after  the  compilation  of  the  Black  Book, 
is,  amongst  others,  thus  described  :— 
^*6cu|age  of  the  county  of  M]ddleBe3t.....,Also  cf 

tb©  biahoprick  of  LondoQ......And  for  tht  half  fit  of 

Ralph  de  Bemers  in  liddm^,*^* 

Moreover,  in  the  inquisition  of  Sir  Balph  de 
Berners,^  taken,  after  his  decease,  on  25  Jan., 

1297,  it  is  stated  :— 

*  'Tcflta  do    KeviU;   Middlesex   (613K   P-    360, 
p^nhtd  copy. 


"  The  fltwne  Sir  Ralph,  on  the  day  be  died,  held 
hifl  manor  of  Y'ttldon  with  the  appurtenances  of  the 
Lord  Bishop  of  Loodon,  by  the  service  of  hai/  a 
hiiffht'^  /f«  and  two  shilUn^  rent  jj&p^able  at  the 
qastie  of  tbe  same  bishop  of  htortfora.* 
This  half-knight's  fee,  which  is  recorded  morB 
than  a  hundred  vears  before  the  marriage 
of  the  third  Ralph  de  Bemers  with  Maud 
Barrow,  can  only  be  referred  to  the  manor 
afterwards  known  as  Iseldon -Bemers  and 
now  as  Barns  bury. 

Mr.  Toralins  modestly  termed  his  book  a 
*  Perambulation,'  but  it  is  really  a  valuable 
histor>%  compiled  by  a  trained  lawyer  who 
knew  exactly  the  meaning  of  the  word 
"evidence,"  and  who  based  his  statements, 
not  on  the  uncorroborated  assertions  of  pre- 
vious chroniclers,  but  on  first-hand  axamma- 
tion  and  oollation  of  our  public  records.  He 
takes  every  manor  in  Islington  in  turn,  aiid 
deals  with  ^ch  in  what  I  must  consider,  with 
deference  to  your  old  and  valued  correspond- 
ent A.  H.,  a  very  methodic^  manner ;  but  I 
must  admit  that  his  book  is  rather  hard  read- 
ing, and  that  the  ** purple  patches"  of  mingled 
fact  and  fiction  which  adorn  the  "  popular  " 
local  histories  of  the  present  day  are  lament- 
ably absent.  W.  F.  Pribbaux- 


"  Cluzzom  "  (9^  S,  vi.  506),— This  word  is 
given  in  the  'E.D.D.'  under  'Clossem**  The 
second  meaning  is  "  to  seize,  clutch,  snatch  ; 
to  appropriate."  A  South  Notts  quotation 
runs,  ^'Tho  farmers  took  the  land  bit  by  bit, 
till  they  *d  clozzumed  the  hull  parish.'*  The 
form  clmmvi^  with  the  meaning  "  to  grasp  in 
a  tight  embrace,  to  squeeze,"  is  attributed  to 
West  Yorkshire,  and  the  Quotation  (from  Mr. 
Addy*s  'A  Glossary  of  Words  used  in  the 
Neighbourhood  of  ^Sheffield  %  "Cluzzum  me 
to  th^,  lad  ! "  is  given.     Aethue  Mat  am. 

During  many  years  I  have  frequently  heard 
this  verb  to  clusom  (not  clunoni)  playfully 
used  by  a  lady  long  resident  in  London,  but 
bom  and  bred  (1830-62)  in  Northamptonshire, 
where  I  believe  it  was  then  common.  She 
would  say,  for  instance,  in  allusion  to  a  per- 
son who  was  covetous  or  selfish,  that  he  (or 
she)  wanted  to  "clizzom"  (or  "clizzom  hold 
of")  everything,  which  is  very  similar  in 
meaning  to  that  mentioned  by  C.  C*  B. 

'^  W.  L  R.  V. 

LiEOT.-CoL.  MooftnousE  (9*^  S,  VL  410  ;  viL 
18).— He  was  not  buried  at  Madras,  as  your 
correspondent  J,  H,  L.  thinks.  He  must  have 
been  a  popular  officer  at  Fort  St  George,  for 
when  the  news  of  his  death  r^.ched  the  fort^ 
application  was  made  by  his  friends  to  the 
vestry  of  St*  Mary^s  to  permit  his  body  to  be 


•-8.vn.jAK.a6.i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


71 


brouffht  down  from  Bangalore  and  buried  in 
the  charch.  The  application  was  granted,  as 
the  vestry  proceedings  record  ;  but  probably 
the  gr^t  distance  prevented  the  project 
froni  being  carried  out.  His  body  was  ouried 
outside  the  Bangalore  Fort  No  monument 
marks  its  resting-place.  Col.  Moorhouse  was 
married  at  the  Fort  church  in  1785.  No 
children  are  recorded  to  have  been  bom  or 
baptized  between  that  date  and  the  date  of 
hia  death,  1791.  In  Mrs.  Penny's  book  on 
Fort  St.  George  the  date  of  his  marriage  is 
given  as  1736 ;  this  is  a  printer^s  error. 
Frank  Penny,  LL.M.,  Senior  Chaplain. 
Fort  St.  George. 

GsoBos  Eliot  (9"»  S.  vi.  287).— As  no  reply 
80^r  has  appeared  to  the  inquiry  by  Q.  v., 
might  I  remind  him  that  Ruskin  expresses 
an  almost  similar  sentiment  at  the  conclusion 
of  Letter  ii.  in  *  Fors  Clavigera,'  '*  To  do  your 
own  work  well,  whether  it  be  for  life  or 
death"?  Richard  Lawson. 

Urmston. 

Irish  Wills  (9"»  S.  vii.  9).— Copies  or  ex- 
tracts can  be  had  at  the  Record  Office  in 
Dublin,  which  is  near  the  Four  Courts  ;  but 
they  cannot  be  bespoken  by  post.  Some  one 
has  to  search  the  indexes,  and  find  the  refer- 
ences and  bespeak  the  copies  or  extracts,  and 
pay  the  fees  for  them  before  they  are  given 
out.  The  charges  made  at  the  office  are  1«. 
for  liberty  to  search,  U.  for  each  record  pro- 
duced, and  6c^.  per  "folio,"  ue.,  seventy-two 
words,  for  copies  or  extracts. 

F.  E.  R.  Pollard-Urquhart. 
Craigstoii  Castle,  Turriflf.  N.B. 


tiger   couchant Motto^  "Pausey,  pour 

accomplir."      See    Burke's    *  Gentry,'    1849, 
vol.  iii.  John  Radclifpe. 

"Inundate" (9^  S.  v.  396,  497;  vi.  62, 112, 
192,  218,  261, 364).— Be  it  observed  that  Long- 
fellow accented  intmdate  on  the  second  syllable 
in  his  rendering  of  the  *  Paradiso,'  c.  iv.  119 : 

**  0  love  of  the  first  lover,  0  divine." 

Said  I  forthwith,  "  whose  speeon  inundates  me." 

St.  Swithin. 

The  *D.N.B.'  (9"»  S.  vi.  466,  618).— There  is 
yet  another  side  to  this  question.  Mr.  George 
Smith  has  expended  some  160,000/.  on  pro- 
ducing the*  Dictionary  of  National  Biography.' 
I  understand  that  the  Clarendon  Press  may 
easily  spend  nearly  as  large  a  sum  on  the 
'New  English  Dictionary '  oef ore  they  have 
issued  the  last  part.  In  neither  case  aid  the 
publishers  expect  anything  but  a  heavy  loss 
when  they  undertook  the  work.  At  the  same 
time,  it  is  the  duty  of  those  who  wish  similar 
enterprises  to  be  possible  in  the  future  to 
use  every  endeavour  in  order  that  the  loss 
may  be  as  small  as  possible.  No  one  would 
suggest  that  every  correspondent  who  wishes 
a  smgle  item  of  information  should,  for  that 


Genealogical  Trees  (9"»  S.  vii.  27).— 
Chevron  will  find  a  specimen  tree  in  Strohl's 
•  Heraldic  Atlas '  (Stuttgart,  1899X  and  pro- 
bably in  many  other  heraldic  works.  Strohl's 
example,  however,  runs  to  some  half  a  dozen 
generations  only.  I  have  a  much  larger 
specimen,  showing  the  descent  of  the  Dukes 
d  Neuchatel,  drawn  up  by  my  friend  M.  J. 
Grellet,  President  of  the  Swiss  Heraldic 
Society,  which  I  shall  be  ^lad  to  send  to  your 
correspondent  for  inspection. 

J.  HT  Rivett-Carnac, 
Colonel  and  A.D.C.  to  the  Queen. 
Schlou  Wildeck,  Switzerland. 

Passy  or  Passey  (9^»»  S.  vi.  429).— The  arms 
of  the  family  of  Passy  or  Pawsey  of  Hawsted, 

in  SuflTolk  (which  came  originally  from  France,  navmg  "thoroughlv  ransacked  tne  iintish 
and  sunered  much  during  the  persecution  of  Museum  or  the  Bocileian."  The  *  Dictionary  ' 
^©Huguenots,  a  branch  of  it  emigrating  exists  precisely  for  the  use  of  persons  unable 
to  England  shortly  after  the  massacre  of  St. :  to  ransack  those  and  other  libraries,  and  I 
Biutholoii^w  in  1668X  are.  Gules,  a  crass  vair  |  venture  to  think  that  if  inquiry  were  made 
between  four  lions  rampant  or.     Crest,  a   it  would  be  foimd  that  copies  are  available  in 


item,  empty  his  pocket  and  load  his  shelves 
with  either  of  these,  literally,  monumental 
works.  But  your  correspondents  have  all  of 
them  some— and  manv  of  them  very  much — 
influence  with  the  authorities  entrusted  with 
the  management  of  public  libraries.  In  season 
and  out  of  season,  and  by  every  possible 
pressure,  such  authorities  should  be  driven 
to  show  their  appreciation  of  the  enlightened 
patriotism  that  has  given  us  two  works  un- 
equalled in  the  world,  and  to  buy  both  books. 
Surely  the  terms  oflfered  by  Smith,  Elder  & 
Co.  are  easy  enough  ;  and  a  subscription  of 
two  guineas  a  year  buys  the  *  New  English 
Dictionary  '  in  its  monthly  parts.  I  sincerely 
hope  that  you  will  gallantly  do  your  share, 
as  you  have  done  in  the  past,  in  indirectly 
creating  a  public  opinion  that  will  make 
people  ask  for  each  of  these  books  in  the 
public  libraries  of  their  own  towns,  and  (as 
the  pill-men  say)  see  that  they  get  it. 

Q.  V. 

It  is  difficult  to  avoid  a  certain  feeling  of 
sympathy  with  the  complaint  of  Mr.  John  T. 
Page.  But  surely  there  is  a  vast  difference 
between  consulting  the  *  Dictionary '  and 
having  "thoroughly  ransacked   the    British 


72 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [g*8.viLjAK.ae>.Moi. 


many  oentres,  but  are  overlooked  by  careless 
workers.  Probably  there  is  not  a  county  in 
England  which  does  not  contain  in  a  public 
or  semi-public  library  a  copy  of  this  great 
work.  In  my  district  there  is  a  copy  in  the 
Free  Library.another  in  the  Devon  and  Exeter 
Institution,  Exeter,  and  another  in  the  Free 
Library  at  Plymouth  ;  and  I  will  venture  to 
say  there  is  no  one  with  literary  tastes  in  the 
countv  of  Devon  who  could  not  through 
friends  or  by  the  expenditure  of  a  shilling  or 
two,  obtain  any  information  he  desired  from 
the  '  Dictionary.'  without  clogging  the  pages 
of  *  N.  A;  Q.*  with  replies  to  queries  which  are 
no  longer  justified  by  the  state  of  our  national 
biography.  Would  not  *  N.  «k  Q.'  do  well  to 
collect  and  publish  a  list  of  the  centres  where 
the  *  Dictionary  of  National  Biography,*  the 
'New  English  Dictionary,'  and  the  new 
*'  Dialect  Dictionary  *  can  be  consulted  7 

Jambs  Dallas. 
Lympstone,  South  Devon. 

Striking  the  Anvil  (9"»  S.  vi.  367,  452).— 
Db.  Wallace-James's  excellent  and  faithful 
description  of  the  blacksmith  and  his  assistant 
as  they  labour  respectively  with  small  ham- 
mer and  sledge — or  forehammer,  as  we  call  it 
in  Scotland— prompts  a  reference  to  Burns's 
animated  delineation  of  the  same  scene  in  his 
*  Scotch  Drink.'  The  picture  is  of  a  smithy 
interior  on  a  winter  evening.  The  young 
ploughmen  have  assembled  for  the  sharpen- 
ing of  their  "  irons  "—their  coulters  and  their 
socks— and  one  or  other  of  these  stalwart 
"swankies"  readily  wields  the  forehammer 
to  assist  the  laborious  toil  of  "  Bumewin,"  or 
Burn-the-wind,  the  blacksmith.  Some  Scotch 
drink  in  a"lugget  caup"  near  by— in  a  wooden 
bowl,  that  is,  with  ears— is  useful  towards 
supply  of  additional  energy  and  spirit ;  and 
the  proceedings  are  thus  set  forth  : — 

When  Vulcan  gies  his  bellows  breath, 
An'  ploughmen  gather  wi'  their  wraith, 
0  rare !  to  see  thee  fizz  an'  freath 

r  th'  lugget  caup ! 
Then  Bumewin  comes  on  like  death 

At  ev'ry  chaup. 

Nae  mercy,  then,  for  aim  or  8t«el ; 
The  brawnie,  bainie,  ploughman  chiel 
Brings  hard  owrehip,  wi'  sturdy  wheel. 

The  strong  forehammer, 
Till  block  an'  studdie  ring  an'  reel 

Wi*  dinsome  clamour. 

Thomas  Bayne. 

Perhaps  the  following  translation  from 
Bishop  Lowth's  *'  Isaiah/  made  originally  in 
1778,  may  prove  illustrative.    The  supposable 


The  carver  eDCourafceth  the  smith  ; 

He  that  smootheth  with  the  hammer,  him  that 

smiteth  on  the  anvil : 
Saying  of  the  solder.  It  is  good ;  .      ,    „ 

And  he  fizeth  the  idol  with  nails,  that  it  shall  not 

move.— Isaiah  xli.  6,  7. 
As  is  well  known.  Bishop  Lowth  was  one 
of  the  first  to  draw  attention  to  Hebrew 
poetry,  though  many  advances  have  been 
made  since  his  day.  Is  the  word  "soldering," 
or  '*sodering,"  as  used  in  the  A.V.  ] 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 
Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

Early  Lines  on  Cricket  (9^*»  S.  vi.  506).— 
The  volume  to  which  your  correspondent 
refers  has  just  come  into  my  possession,  now 
clad  in  a  neat  coat  of  calf.  The  lines  on 
cricket  had  cauglit  my  eye,  and  I  thought  of 
copying  them  out  for  *  N.  <k  Q.,'  when  I  found 
that  W,  I.  R.  V.  had  anticipated  me.  I  was 
hesitating  about  the  two  words  which  have 
lost  their  last  letters,  but  I  have  no  doubt  his 
reading  is  right.  The  date  I  suppose  to  be 
not  later  than  1700.  The  name  is  written  at 
the  foot  of  three  separate  pages,  and  is  un- 
doubtedly "  John  Reeves,  1748/'  At  the  foot 
of  sig.  Ee  i.  is  an  old  recipe,  written  in  capital 
letters  of  varying  size :  "Yarrow.  TheLeieives 
chewed  in  the  mouth  ease  the  toothach." 

Referring  to  the  book  itself,  it  is  Richard 
Jugge's  quarto  edition  of  1553  (not  1552) : 
but,  in  comparing  this  copy  with  another  of 
the  same  issue,  I  nave  noted  some  variations, 
which  would  be  more  interesting  to  the 
Bibliographical  Society  than  to  the  general 
reader,  so  no  more  of  them  here. 

C.  Deedes. 

Brighton. 

A  very  curious  poem  on  cricket,  dated  1773. 
consisting  of  seventy  quatrain  stanzas,  entitled 

*  Surrey  Triumphant,'  may  be  found  in  Evans's 

*  Old  Ballads,'  vol.  iv.  pp.  323-35  (1784).  It  is 
intended  as  a  parody  on  *  Chevy  Chace,*and 
purports  to  have  been  written  by  J.  Dun- 
comoe,  M.A.  The  game  appears  to  have  been 
a  very  protracted  one,  as  it  is  said 

This  game  did  last  from  Monday  mom 

Till  Wednesday  afternoon, 
For  when  bell  Harry*  rune  to  prayers 

The  batting  scarce  was  (Tone. 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 
New  bourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

"Hattock"  (9^^  S.  vi.  308,  413,  497).— 
Grimm  countenances  the  use  of  Hackelnberg 

I  for  the  Wild  Huntsman  in  connexion  with  the 
Low  Saxon  legend  concerning  a  sixteenth- 

I  nnnt-jirv  mAstAr  of  the  hounda  of  the  Duke  of 


•*8.viljak.26.i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


T3 


toulitioDB  G^ll  the  mighty  sportumaD  Hackel- 
b^rend,  Hackelbemd,  HackelberK,and  Hackel- 
blfick.  See  vol,  iii.  p.  921  (S  tally  brass's  edi- 
tion). Id  *  Legends  and  Tales  of  the  Harz 
MoimtaiDs^'  by  Toofie  Lauder,  he  is  Hackel- 

berg  (pp.  123-5).  &T.  SwiTHlN. 

MoKKETs  (9**  S.  vi,  507),—*  Monkeys  in  the 
New  World'  appeared  in  Cajssell'a  "^Natural 
History/  voL  i. 

EvERAKD  Home  Coleman. 

n,  Brack  noek  RqwlL 

Dabcy  L&yee  (S***  S.  viL  1).— It  is  no 
doabt  obliging  in  Mh,  Philip  Kent  to  have 
given  the  readers  of  *N,  it  Q.'  so  much  infor- 
mation about  the  Levers  of  A^krington  Hall. 
In  s<3me  respect«j  however,  it  is  deficient,  aa 
he  himself  says,  irom  want  of  knowledge  :  a 
reference  to  the  not  very  recondite  pages  of 
Barkers  *  Landed  Gentry  '  would  have  made 
bia  notes  fuller  and  more  accurate.  In  cas^e 
any  reader  should  have  an  interest  in  the 
matter,  I  give  the  following  as  taken  from 
Burka  I  am  not  responsible  for  it.  It  sets 
forth  rather  curious  intermarriages  of  fatnilies. 

Darcy  Lever  had  by  his  wife  Elizabeth 
Murgatroyd  five  daugnters ;  of  these  the 
thiixr,  not  the  youngest,  Franeea  not  Dorothy, 
married  Architmld  Watson  Goldie,  W,S.  The 
sole  child  of  this  marriage^  FrancerS  Elizabeth, 
married  £rst,  not  a  captain  in  the  army,  but 
« ftnrgeon  in  the  army,  who  happened  to  be 
ber  own  cousin,  Dr,  Thomas  Ooldie  Scot,  He 
did  not  tack  his  father-in-law's  name  on  to 
hia  own.  His  mother  wan  Helen  Goldie,  the 
sister  of  his  wife's  father,  who  had  married  a 
Dr.  William  Scot,  private  physician  to  the 
RAJab  of  Tra  van  core  and  secret^iry  to  the 
Medical  Board  at  Madras}.  Thomas  Goldie 
Scot  died  in  1874,  and  his  widow  married  in 
1S83  another  cousinn,  though  not  so^  nearly 
related — the  Rev,  Michael  Maude  Simpson, 
rector  el  Us  worth,  co,  Durham ;  of  him 
bereafter. 

The  other  daughter  of  Darcy  Lever  whom 
M&.  Kent  mentions,  Be^ie^  married  Patrick 
Hendrick,  and  had  by  him  a  daughter,  who 
married  the  Rev,  Michael  Henry  Simpson, 
vicar  of  Tow  law,  co,  Durham.  The  issue  of 
thia  marriage  was  the  above  -  mentioned 
Jlichael  ifaude.  who  married  Mrs.  Goldie 
ScoL^  the  granddaughter  of  his  gi^eat-grand- 
^ther. 

Another  curious  fact  in  the  family  history 
is  that  the  Lstsue  of  the  marriage  between 
Frances  Elizabeth  Lever  and  Thomas  Goldie 
Scot^  Archibald  Murgatroyd  Goldie,  married 
Ellen  Gcrtrude»  fourth  daughter  of  the  above- 
mentioned  Rev.  Michael  Henr^F'  Simpson,  ao 
tiiat  matb^  and  «an  have  married  a  orother 


and  sister,  Mrs.  Simpson  of  Craigmuir,  co. 
Kirkcudbright  (a  property  which  was  pur- 
chased by  the  Goldies  m  1679),  is  stilL  so  far 
a^  I  know,  alive,  J.  B.  P. 

In  his  most  interesting  note  Me.  Phiup 
Kent  has  given  us  some  valuable  information 
about  Lever  which  would  have  been  of  use 
to  his  biographer  in  the  ^  D.N.B.*  (see 
vol.  xx3tiii.  p,  140).  In  this  notice  I  fancy 
Mr,  Kent  will  find  some  facts  new  to  him, 
which  may  probably  induce  him  to  give 
us  some  more  exact  facts  and  dates.  His 
antipathy  to  exact  dates  and  titles  has  given 
me  some  trouble  to  find  what  he  calls 
Lever's  'Seamanship.'  No  doubt  he  refers 
to  *The  Young  Bea  Oflicer  s  Sheet  Anchor,* 
1808.  I  have  looked  at  the  copy  in  the 
Bodleian,  which  is  in  the  original  boards  and 
uncut.  It  is  a  quarto,  with  a  f ull  -  page 
engraved  plate  drawn  by  the  author  to  each 
of  the  hundred  and  eleven  pages*  I  can 
quite  Wieve  it  cost  the  1,000/.  mentioned,  and 
was  well  worth  it  too.  So  thoroughly  is  the 
work  done  that  I  feel  certain  it  can  never  be 
aupersede<L 

WiU  Ma,  Kent  refresh  his  memory  with 
my  note  h^^  B,  iv.  13),  and  then  tell  us  if  he 
still  thinks  the  plates  are  engraved  on  steel  1 
To  my  eye  they  are  engraved  on  copper.  If 
he  still  thinks  they  are  steel,  and  will  give 
his  proofs  to  the  "  best  of  his  knowledge  and 
ability,''  he  may  establish  a  very  early 
example  of  steel  engraving, 

Ralph  Thomas. 

In    another  form   Darcy   Lever—"  D'Arcy 

Lever" — is  the  pen-name  of  a  present  day 
writer  whose  name  appears,  I  believei  in 
'  Who*a  Who '  for  1900  and  l&Ol.  This  name 
was  taken,  it  is  said,  from  his  association 
with  the  Lancashire  parish  of  Darcy  Lever, 
near  BoJton.  N.  P.  L, 

Sir  Lawkehce  Pabeinham  (9^^  S.  vi.  429). 
—He  was  the  son  of  Sir  Thomas  de  Pabenham, 
of  Pabenham  and  Then  ford,  co,  Northampton, 
and  was  eleven  years  old  at  his  father's  deatli 
in  1344.  He  died  in  1398,  leaving  an  only 
daughter  Catherine,  who  carried  his  estates 
in  marriage  to  Sir  William  Cheyne,  of  Fen 
Dittun  ( see  Bridges's  '  History  of  North- 
amptonshire'Jl  W  D.  Pink. 

Sir  Lawrence  Pabenham  was  the  son  of 
Sir  Thomas  (d.  Septemljer,  1344)  and  Alice, 
daughter  of  —  Ufford.  his  wife,  and  grand- 
son of  John  (d,  1331)  ana  Elizabeth,  daiigiiter 
and  heir^s  of  Nicholas  de  CrioU  and  Margery 
de  Clifford.  His  first  wife  was  Elizabeth, 
daughter  of  John  de  Engayne  and  Amicia, 
daughter  of  Walter  da  Fauconborg,  and  sister 


74 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      P^s.  vil  jah. 2b,  i9oi. 


and  coheir  of  Thomaa  Engajne  (d.  $.p.  1367), 
of  Blatherwick,  co.  Northarapton.  The  second 
wa«  Joan,  daaghter  of  Sir  Gilea  de  Albany 
(D'AubeneyX  and  great  -  granddaughter  of 
David  de  Strathbogie,  Earl  of  Atholl  Issue 
by  first  wife-  Catherine  (d.  17  June,  1436), 
wife  of,  first,  Sir  William  Cheney,  of  co.  Cam- 
bridge ^  second  Sir  Thomas  Aylesbury.  Bj 
the  second— John  (d.  ^.p.  14S6},  and  Eleanor 
(d,  1432),  wife  of  John  Teringham,  of  Tering- 
hani.  Authorities  vary  on  certain  pointe, 
and  some  of  the  information  is  from  MSS, 
The  arma  are.  Barry  of  aix  argent  and  azure  ; 
on  a  bend  gules  three  mullets  pierced  argent. 
John  Radcliffe, 

"Crying  *  notch  ell '"  (9^  S.  vi.  488}.— To 
announce,  as  if  by  crier,  one's  irresponsibiHty 
for  notches  or  debts  contracted.  The  allusion 
is  obviously  to  the  notches  cut  in  a  tally- 
stick,  according  to  the  ancient  form  of 
recording  debts,  a  custom  so  ancient  indeed 
that  tally -sticks  have  been  found  in  the 
Aquitanian  caves  of  Peri^ord  in  Southern 
France.  See  *  Reliquise  Aquitanicfle,'  by  Lartat 
and  Christy,  1665,  pp.  183-201.  The  connexion 
of  "notchell"  vrith  "uichelV  or  ^^pigeon- 
hole,"  is  strikingly  apparent  in  the  following : 

"There  is  ati  Officer  in  the  Exchequer  called 
Clericufl  Xihiloruiri  [?J,  or  the  Clerk  of  the  Nichills, 
who  maketh  a  Roll  of  al!  Bueh  sums  aa  are  nicheird 
by  the  Sheriff  upon  their  estreats  of  the  Green  Wai, 
when  such  surna  are  set  on  perBOUs  either  not 
found,  or  not  found  sol vi tile. "—Fuller,  *  Worthies/ 
ohap.  xxv.,  quoted  '  N.  k  Q./  7*^  S.  viiL  416, 

"There  ia  an  illaBt ration  of  a  modern  flat  Tally- 
stick  belonging  to  a  Turf*cutter,  or  Broom -maker, 
or  perhaps  a  ohepherd.  lately  picked  up  on  the 
heath  at  Wishmoor,  near  B^Miot,  on  the  con6neB 
of  Bi^rkft,  by  C.  Coojier  King,  Esq.^  R.M.Art,**— 
*  Reliquise,'  ihid. 

J,  HoLPEN  MacMichael. 

The  custom  and  the  ivortl  have  been  con- 
aidered  in  *  N.  &  Q.,'  3^  S.  x.  loa  :  1^  S.  viii, 
268,  416  \  8^  S.  ii,  526  ;  iii.  98.        W.  a  B. 

Job  Charj^qck  (9^  B.  vi.  389,  437).— In 
reply  to  Me.  W.  Gkooke,  Charnock  arrived 
in  India  in  1656,  bat  was  not  admitted  into 
the  Company's  iiervice  till  1658  (ftee  Mra. 
Penny'ti  book  on  '  Fort  St.  George/  cliap.  xii,, 
3,  120).  Thiy  information  is  derived  from  a 
iJit  of  the  Company '«  servants  *'in  the  Bay/' 
i.€.^  at  the  factory  on  the  Hoogly,  in  16^9, 
which  in  now  in  the  record  room  at  Fort 
St.  George,  There  is  nothing  hero  to  hIiow 
how  he  wa.s  employed  (luring  the  two  years 
before  he  was  taken  into  the  service,  nor  iij 
there  any  mention  that  he  lived  in  Fort 
St  George,    The  probability  is  that  he  was 


I 


aervice,  and  that  when  he  was  taken  into  the 
service  he  was  sent  by  the  Governor  of  Fort 
St.  George  to  the  Bay,  and  that  he  remained 
there  till  he  wa^  driven  away. 

Frank  Pekny,  LL.M.,  Senior  Chaplain, 
Fort  iSL  George, 

QuoTATioKs  (9^^  S.  vi.  489),— The  greater 
part  of  the  second  quotation  has  already 
appf^Ared  in  the  second  volume  of  this  series, 
p.  221,  in  an  eattract  from  Robert  Barton, 
who  gives  no  reference.  He  applies  the 
words  to  James  I.,  who  had  recently  died. 
Burton,  it  may  be  mentioned,  had  a  habit  of 
borrowing,  without  acknowledgment,  from 
his  contemporaries,  especially  from  Joseph 
Hall  and  Camden.  This  is  a  cAse  in  point 
The  latter,  after  quoting  from  **Giraldu3 
Carabrensis,  a  man  well  Dome,  and  better 
lettered,  of  that  house  from  whence  the 
Giraldines  of  Ireland  are  descended,  and 
secretary  to  King  Tohn/'  writes  as  followi  in 
his  chapter  on  *  Epigrammea '  :— 

'*  He  that  miwle  the  veree  fQllowmg  (aome  ascribe 
it  to  that  Giraldua)  could  adore  both  th*i  isuiiiie 
riiine  and  the  Bunne  aettiog,  when  he  cnatd  bo 
i^IeaiSy  honour  Kin^  Henry  the  second  then 
dfjpiirttod,  and  King  Richard  aucceediog. 

Mira  cano^  Sol  occubuit^  nox  nulla  Bequuta,"" 
It  would  appear  from  this  mssajee  that  the 
authorship  of  the  line  was  doubtful  in  Cam- 
den*«  days.  I  hope,  however,  that  the  refer- 
ence to  Giraldua  will  induce  aome  learned 
reader  to  examine  that  writer^s  worka  and 
favour  U8  with  the  result    John  T.  Cosby, 

"Ubi  lapsus?  quid  feci,"  is  the  motto  of 
the  Earl  of  Bevon^  probably  adopted  by  the 
Fowderham  branch  after  the  loss  of  the 
earldom  of  Devonshira  It  is  quoted  by 
Gibbon  in  the  *  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  iloman 
Empire,'  **De  male  quiesitis  vix  gaudet 
tertius  h seres"  is  quoted  by  Walsingham, 
*  Hiat, '  p,  260,  Constance  Russeix. 

Swallow  field. 

4,  "  Ubi  lapsus  1  quid  feci/'  is  the  motto  of 
Courtenay,  Earl  of  Devon.  I  do  not  know 
the  origin,  which  is  probably  historical.  In 
the  fifth  quotation,  evidently,  **  pjcres  "  should 
be  kiPvu.    The  author  is  Juvenah 

Julian  Maeehall. 
2.  Mira  can  a  :  aol  ocoubuit ;  nox  nulla  aecuta  eftl^ 

Seea^^B.  X.  186. 
5.  I>e  male  qua'sitis  vix  gaudet  lertiuB  hicres  [not 

See  1"  8.  ii.  167  j  ix.  600;  x,  113,  216; 
4**"  8,  iv.  266  ;  Eamage,  *  Beautiful  Thoughts 
from  Latin    Authors,'  second  edition,   1869, 


»*  a  vn.  Jah.  28.  ifloi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


75 


p.  840,  The  earlieafc  oocurretice  seems  to  bci 
ia  Walmngham*s  *  History/  The  author  of 
neither  of  the^te  ha«  been  dincovered.  One 
feela  the  loss  of  the  late  Rev.  Ed.  Maesball. 

W.  U.  B, 

Hectors  of  StrrroK  CoLDFiELa  Wakwtck* 
9HIBE  (9**  S.  viV  aaft,  458y— John  Burerps, 
f^Qcated  at  St.  John*g  CoHe^e^  Camhridjr^*. 
M.D.  Leyden,  Bector  of  Sutton  Coldfield 
(iei7X  Prebendary  of  Lichfiold  fl625\  "an 
hontfit  man  and  a  scholar,"  is  perhaps  hpst 
known  by  hh  Mb  answer  0631)  to  Br 
Willi  am  Ames's  reply  (1622)  to  Binhop  Thomas 
Morton's  *  Defence  of  the  Three  Innocent 
Ceremonies'  (1617).  Burgesl^i  sister  Ann 
married  John  White,  the  **  Patriarch  of 
Dorchester,"  who  on  the  publication  of  this 
treatise  by  his  "  wrivea  Brother"  '* seriously 
recaramended "  it  to  hia  Dorset  friends, 
etide&voQHng  his  utmost  '*to  put  one  of 
those  Bookes  into  the  hands  of  ever>^  one  of 
the  Clergy,"  and  **  prevailed  with  Mawt^r 
Archdeacon  Fitiherbert  to  recommend  the 
Booke.*'  Bnrgesdiedin  1635,  aged  seventy-four, 
and  was  succeeded  as  rector  by  the  commenta- 
tor Anthony  Bureesse,  who  was  not  related  to 
him  (v. '  Reliquia!  BRxterianie ').  Dr  Cornelius 
Barges,  iKtmetime  Chaplain  in  Ordinary  to 
Charles  L,  and  in  1643  White's  colleague  in 
preeiding  over  the  Westroinster  Assembly, 
was  a  native  of  Batcombe,  Somerset,  and  a 
brother  of  John  Burges.  Their  father  wm 
John  Barges,  but  whether  of  Rutton  Cold- 
field  I  do  not  know.  The  "  Patriarch  of  Dor- 
chester" was  an  ancestor  of  John  Weslev. 

J,  H,  W. 
SUvertoQ  Rectory,  Eneter, 

"Pbiloscriblkbius"  (9^^  S.  vi,  490),— This 
wm  James  Moore  Smith's  pseudonym  in  the 
Da  Uy  Jau  mal  i  n  1 7  SS. 

Constance  Russell, 

The  Bellman  (9^^  S.  vi.  S50,  417,  471).— In 
the  parish  raster  of  Folkestone  occurs  the 
followinir  burial:  "ITKl—Oct  30.  Gilieon 
L*dd,  Bellman  for  the  Night."        R,  J.  R 

"LAjrrEO  ale"  (9*^  B.  vi.  367,  411,  493).— 
The  medicinal  virtue  of  urine  having  cropped 
up  under  this  head,  its  use  a<i  a  cosmetic  may 
also  be  noted.  An  old  man  in  my  native 
fjJlage  who  followed  tbp  unsavoury  occupa- 
tion of  a  "  muck-major ''—that  is,  collecting 
horae-dong:  from  the  roads— had,  at  seventy 
year*  of  age,  hands  as  smooth  and  soft  as 
any  lady's,  and  he  attributed  this  to  the  fact 
that  he  washed  them  every  day  in  his  own 
nrmB-  C  C  B. 

Ammamb  anb^  Dabhahb  (S**"  S.  vi,  449),— I 
•end  the  fbUowing^  not  aa  an  aaswer,  but  to  i 


help  C.  C.  B.  in  his  inquiry,  Mr.  J,  L*  Chester 
gave  a  pe^H gree  of  the  D*Aranda  family  in 
the  Muetiiansa  Genealogka  ei  I/eraidioa^ 
voL  i.,  N  B-,  p.  83,  and  said,  "It  was  un- 
doubtedly of  French  origin,  although  the 
later  mem  ben?  of  it  appear  to  have  given  the 
name  a  Spanish  termination,"  The  first  entry 
is  Rev.  EHe  D*Arande,  minister  of  the  French 
Church  at  Southampton,  1633.  The  name 
may  be  derive<l  from  some  locality  in  France, 
or  the  family,  before  they  resided  in  that 
country,  may  have  come  from  A  ran  da  in 
Spain.  John  Radcliffe. 

SmoN  Fkasek  (8^  a.  X,  156,  223  :  9«*  S.  vi. 
157,  33B,  435;  vii.  16,  51),  —  May  T  be  per- 
mitted to  aupialpmenfc  what  was  fiaid  anU^ 
p.  IBl  The  original  of  the  portrait  in  the 
*  Table  Book '  was  a  half-length  from  the  oil 
painting  by  Hogarth  done  at  St.  Albans. 
As  mentioned  in  the  *  Table  Book,'  there  was 
a  second  likeness  of  Lovat,  a  full-length 
etched  by  Hojrartb,  and  in  this  will  be 
notic^  the  difference  as  to  the  position  of 
the  buttonholes  of  the  coat,  and  also  that 
the  satirical  insignia  are  wanting.  This 
portrait  may  be  seen  at  p.  552.  book  ix,, 
vol  iv.,  of  Knight's  'Pictorial  History  of 
England,'  and  underneath  it  are  the  following 
words  :  "Lord  Lovat.  From  a  drawing  made 
by  Hogarth  the  morning  before  his  lordship's 
execution,"  Feancls  W,  Jacicson. 

I  am  aware  that  Hogarth  painted  Simon, 
Lord  Lovat,  but  T  am  not  aware  of  any 
artist  or  engraver  who  has  ever  put  on 
paper  or  canvas  Simon  Fraaer,  eldest  son  of 
r^ord  Lovat,  colonel  of  the  78th  Highlanders, 
who  fought  at  Quebec,  1759-60.  This  pic- 
ture is  wanted  for  historical  purposes,  and 
the  print  shops  and  galleries  of  the^  world 
have  been  searched  for  it  in  vain.  Pictures 
or  prints  of  Thomas  Carle  ton,  the  first 
(Governor  of  New  Brunswick,  and  Brigadier- 
General  Cornwall  is,  the  first  Governor  of 
Nova  Scotia,  are  also  wanted  for  the  sanxe 
purpose.  The  Govern mpnts  of  Nova  Scotia 
and  New  Brunswick  will  give  a  good  price 
for  anv  or  all  of  these  pictures. 

J.  Robs  Robehtson, 
Toroisto,  Cannda. 

CoRi'SE  ON  Shipboard  (9^''  S,  vi.  246,  313, 
374,  437,  49S)-— The  tl^et  was  polluted  with 
the  presence  of  the  unburied  body,  I  feel 
sure  that  f  never  said  anything  contrary  to 
this,  but  r  have  not  tho  number  of  *  N.  *fe  Q,' 
which  contains  my  first  answer.  It  was 
necessary  that  the  dead  body  should  be 
buried  with  proper  ceremony  before  jEneas 
visited  the  infernal  regions,  otherwise  the 


76 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     19*8.viljah.  26,1901. 


deities  of  those  re^an«  would  have  been 
ofleDiled,  Virgil  distinctly  &aya  that  the  body 
of  Misenus,  after  beinp?  rirownad*  lay  on  the 
shore.  Anybody  who  reads  carefully  the  first 
235  lines  of  the  sixth  book  of  the  'i^neid*  will 
have  no  doubt  about  the  matter. 

E,  Yardley, 

The  belief  that  a  corpse  will  bring  pollu- 
tion and  disaster  to  a  ship  in  which  it  is 
carried  is  widespread  among  sailors.  The 
passage  which  W.  C.  B.  cites  from  Plutarch 
shows  that  the  belief  is  also  an  ancient  one. 
Thit  as  accuracy  is  of  more  than  ordinary 
importance  in  the  pages  of  *N.  ik  Q.,'  it  ia  as 
well  to  point  out  that  the  passage  in  Virgil 
to  which  W.  C.  B.  reft^rs  is  not  by  any  means 
relevant  The  point  there  is  that  the  eorpjis 
amiri  lay  on  the  ahoi*e  unburied,  and  so 
braught  a  curse  upon  those  whose  duty  it 
was  to  perform  the  funeral  rites. 

AliEX.  LZEPBB, 

Trinity  Collie,  University  of  Melbomnse 

Scottish  Dakck  (S***  S.  yI  404  ;  vii.  5).— 
Thin  dance,  referred  to  as  "  Ghillie  Galium/' 
would  appear  to  be  the  saltatory  exercise 
popularly  known  {in  this  country  at  l(^44t)  as 
the  "sword  danca"  T  fancy  some  local 
(Southern)  misapprehension  exists  as  to  its 
character.  Sometimes  in  our  streets  a  pair 
of  itinerants,  clafi  in  the  "garb  of  ancient 
Gaul "  (so  called),  perform  on  a  favourit-e 
"  pi  tch,  ^'  Th  ese  rep  u  ted  "  Hi  gh  1  and  era  "  carry, 
the  one  the  "pipes,"  with  gaily  adorned 
"chanter,"  the  other  a  hoard  of  about  18 in. 
square  and  a  couple  of  weapons — swords, 
invariably,  so  far  as  I  have  ohaerved,  old 
"  regulation  "  naval  cutla'^sefi  or  light  cavalry 
sabres,  the  blades  of  both,  whether  sabres  or 
cutlasses,  being  more  or  less  curved,  but — and 
this  is  importantas  illustrating  my  contention 
—with  the  Jfais  of  the  blades  in  the  same 
plane  as  the  hilt  hand -guards*  The  exercise 
is  presented  by  these  weapons  being  disposed 
on  the  board  lair!  on  the  ground  in  the 
form  of  a  sal  tire,  the  performer  then,  to  th© 
sound  of  the  bagpipes,  proceeding  to  execute 
certain  saltatory  evolutions — his  legs  clad  in 
the  orthodox  chequered  socks,  and  his  fe**t 
protected  by  substantial  brogues  —  within 
the  angles  for  men!  hy  the  St.  Andrew's  CrosJi. 
The  blade-s  being  flat  on— parallel  with — ^the 
platform,  and  the  legs  and  feet  substantially 
covered,  it  is  obvious  that  the  element  of 
danger,  the  risk  of  incurrinir  a  wound,  is, 
practically,  wholly  absent.  Now  this  risk, 
with  the  dexterity  by  which  the  danger  is 
avoided,  constitutes  the  essential  character  of 


Callu  m  "  this  feature  is  con  spicu  ou  s.  Eeaders 
should  appreciate  that  the  weapons  must  be 

the  ancient  glaive  ^ioAr«  =  claymores,  the 
"regulation"  aword  of  our  Highland  regi- 
mental officers.  In  this  weapon  the  edge,  not 
the  jfatf  of  the  blade  is  in  the  plane  of  the 
highest  convexity  of  the  basket  guard,  dome- 
shaped  when  the  claymore  is  laid  flat  on  a 
fiat  surface  ;  thus  the  keen  eilge  is  uppermost, 
at  right  angles  to  the  floor,  not  parallel  with 
it,  as  in  the  case  of  ordinary  cutlasses  or 
sabresj  so  that  the  risk  of  receiving  a  cut 
when  pirouetting  within  the  angles  formed 
by  the  crossed  blades  is  obviously  ever 
present— a  risk  perceptibly  increasecl  when 
the  dance  is  |>erformed,  as  at  the  clan 
gatherings  mentioned  by  your  reverend  and 
esteemed  correspondent,  with  the  legs  and 
feet  of  the  performer  absolutely  bare.  I 
submit,  then,  that  the  so-called  sword  dance, 
as  displayed  in  our  metropolitan  thorough- 
fares and  at  our  popular  watering- places- 
Brighton,  for  instance,  pre-eminently — is  not 
the  "Ghillie  Calluin"  at  all,  nor  even  a 
plausible  imitation  of  it  Gkomon. 

Temple. 

"Rokagate"  (9^^  S.  T.  613).— Spalding,  in 

his  *  Memorials  of  the  Troubles  in  Scotland,' 
thus  alludes  to  Monroes  harsh  rule  in  Aber- 
deen in  T640  r  "  He  causes  put  up  betwixt  the 
crosses  a  timber  mare,  whereon  runagate 
knaves  and  runaway  soldiers  should  rida 
Uncouth  to  see  sic  discipline  in  Aberdeen." 

W.  S. 

Aenold  of  Rugby  (9"^  S.  vl  446,  491,  612). 
^T  must  enter  a  strong  protest  against  the 
growing  innovation  of  "finding"  a  Jewish 
progenitor  for  every  man  who  attains  front 
rank  in  literature,  politics,  or  art.  This 
absurd  practice  adds  a  new  terror  to  life  and 
em  bitters  the  pu  rsu  i  t  of  d  is  ti  n  c  tion  *  1 1  al  most 
makes  a  non-Jew  torn  resolutely  from  "a 
<»reer,"  To  know  beforehand  that  some  idiot 
is  carrying  in  his  pockets  your  genealogical 
tree,  which  he  has  ruthlessly  stolen  from  the 
gardens  of  Judea,  is  enough  to  make  the 
grapes  of  success  turn  sour  and  almost  to 
dispose  you  to  prefer  "otium  cum  dignitate** 
to  a  large  space  in  the  *  D*K,B/  The  nresent 
writer,  fortunately,  need  not  look  backwanls 
or  forwarrla.  He  is  a  Jew  who  will  not  get 
into  the  National  Portrait  Gallery.  Ho  far 
he  is  safe.  But,  joking  apart,  this  sort  of  thing 
does  consideraole  harm  to  the  Jewish  name. 
I  will  cite  an  example.  8ome  years  ago  a 
clever  writer  in  the  JV^w  Age^  in  order  to 
bolster   up  some   fatuous   anrtinient   about 


9*  8.  VIL  Jan.  26. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


77 


aoiTv  Guy  Fawkes  died  in  1606.  Some  one 
has  oeen  denied  the  pleasure  of  inventing  a 
Hebrew  lineage  for  him.  It  was  said  of  Lord 
Houghton  that  as  soon  as  any  one  obtained 
notoriety  he  found  himself  invited  to  Milnes's 
famous  breakfasts.  It  is  time  this  "Jewish 
paternity  business "  ceased  to  be  a  prenatal 
desideratum  of  social  or  political  advance- 
ment. Jews  do  not  hanker  after  it.  They  do 
not  want  to  masquerade  in  borrowed  plumage. 
Of  Matthew  Arnold  I  am  convinced,  from  what 
I  know  of  his  writings,  that  he  was  the  last 
man  to  conceal  his  identity  with  Jews  had 
such  existed,  and  from  what  I  knew  of  him  in 
the  flesh  it  was  impossible  to  conceive  so 
erroneous  an  impression. 

M.  L.  R.  Breslar. 
Percy  House,  South  Hackney. 

In  a  signed  essay  on  'The  Study  of  Celtic 
Literature,'  originally  published  iii  the  Corn- 
hill  Magazine  (see  the  number  for  April,  1866, 
p.  4831,  Matthew  Arnold,  in  explaining  his 
attitude  towards  the  subject  of  his  sketch, 
alludes  with  some  pride  to  Jewish  ancestors, 
and  seems  to  hint  at  the  derivation  of  his 
funily  name  from  Aaron.    His  words  are  :— 

"  I  must  surely  be  without  the  bias  which  has 
•o  often  rendered  Welsh  and  Irish  students  extra- 
vagant ;  why,  roy  very  name  expresses  that  peculiar 
Sernitico-Saxon  mixture  which  makes  the  typical 
Englishman,*  Ac 

The  distinguished  writer  may  have  been  mis- 
taken in  his  suj)posed  Semitic  descent,  of 
which  he  could  passess  no  documentary 
evidence,  as  he  was  discoursing  on  times  and 
race-fusions  Ion jr  anterior  to  the  acje  of  family 
pedigrees.  Still,  his  half-sportive  remark 
may  have  led  to  the  inference,  now  authori- 
tatively contradicted,  that  his  traceable 
ancestors  were  of  Jewish  origin.    H.  E.  M. 

St.  Petersburg. 

[Did  not  Matthew  represent  the  Jewish  element 
and  Arnold  the  Saxon  in  the  above  allusion  ?] 

The  pedigree  of  Arnold  of  Rugby  will  be 
found  in  that  of  'Arnold  of  Lowestoft  in 
Com.  SuflTolk,'  vide  'Suflfolk  Manorial  Fami- 
liea,'  by  J.  J.  Muskett,  vol.  i.  pt.  x.  pp.  385-7. 

HA.  W. 

•*OutTI5R-8NIPE"  O**"  S.  vi.   127,  215,  452).— 

We  now  hear  "gutter-snipe  "  in  Scotland,  but 
it  has  probably  been  brought  from  beyond 
the  Tweed  in  comparatively  recent  times. 
"Gutter-blood  **  is  an  old  friend,  occasionally 
used  by  Scott  when  it  is  requisite  that  some 
intolerable  upstart  should  be  put  into  his 
place  by  Uie  candid  criticism  of  an  acquaint- 
ance. Up-Mtting  "airs"  are  speedily  reduced 
and  dispersed  by  reference  to  lowly  origin, 
«Dd  tba  reiniiuierilMt  the  pretentions  egotist 


is  a  mere  novus  homo^  one  risen  out  of  the 
canaille,  a  regular  "  gutter-blood."  Jamieson 
says  that  in  the  north  of  Scotland  the  word 
is  used  to  describe  one  whose  ancestors  on 
both  sides  have  for  generations  belonged  to 
his  native  district.  Thus  it  is  practically 
eouivalent  to  autochthones  or  aborigines. 
Tnat,  however,  is  a  remote  and  divergent 
consideration.  With  reference  to  actual 
puddling  in  mud,  it  may  be  added  that  the 
term  is  sometimes  used  as  a  nickname  for  a 
scavenger  or  roadman.  An  old  acquaintance 
of  the  writer's,  long  gone  to  his  fathers,  was 
thus  known,  in  the  district  whose  pathways 
profited  by  his  labours,  as  "Aula  Gutter- 
blude."  Thomas  Bayne. 

Authorship  of  Lines  Wanted  (9"*  S.  vi. 
488).— Rear-Admiral  Preble,  U.S.N.,  in  his 
*  History  of  the  United  States  Flag,'  published 
at  Boston,  1880,  p.  156,  states  that  the  lines 
were  written  by  Campbell,  the  poet  of  hope. 
His  version  is : — 

United  States  !  your  banner  wears 

Two  emblems— one,  of  fame  ; 

Alas  !  the  other  that  it  bears 

Reminds  us  of  your  shame. 

Your  standard's  constellation  types 

White  freedom  by  its  stars  ; 

But  what  *8  the  meaning  of  your  stripes?— 

They  mean  your  negroes'  scars. 

In  reply  to  this  bitter  epistle  the  Hon. 
George  Lunt,  of  Massachusetts,  wrote : — 
England  !  whence  came  each  glowing  hue 
That  tints  your  flag  of  meteor  lieht,— 
The  streaming  red,  the  deeper  blue, 
Crossed  with  the  moonbeams'  pearly  white  ? 
The  blood,  the  bruise— the  blue,  the  red- 
Let  Asia's  groaning  millions  speak  ; 
The  white  it  tells  of  colour  fled 
From  starving  Erin's  pallid  cheek. 

The  cry  that  comes  across  the  sea 
From  your  low  cabins  reaches  me 
Like  a  Banshee's  wild,  despairing  wail, 
Brought  on  the  surging  northern  gale, 

Connemara ! 
Men  stagger  as  they  try  to  stand 
Upon  your  famine-stricken  land, 
And  women  lying  down  to  die 
Bare  icy  breasts,  because  their  babies  cry 

Connemara ! 

In  acknowledgment  Campbell  sent  a  splendid 
copy  of  his  works  to  Mr.  Lunt. 

Alfred  F.  Cdrwen. 

**Thamp"  (9"»  S.  vi.  488).— Halli well  says 
that  in  Yorkshire  thimpy  means  damp.  As 
regards  the  meaning,  perhaps  damp  is  a  more 
exact  equivalent  than  soft,  except  where  soft 
is  used  as  descriptive  of  weather  that  is  damp. 
In  the  derivation  of  "damp"  one  does  not 
get  thy  but  ^  appears,  as  well  as  cZ,  in  the 
M.H.G.  dampf  tampf,  Thamp  is,  no  doubt,  a 
good  dialect  word.  Abthur  MAXi^W^ 


78 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p-^s-viljah.  28,1901. 


Fox-names  (9"*  S.  vi.  446).— I  used  to  know 
an  old  earth-stopper  in  the  Quorn  country 
who  never  referred  to  a  fox  except  as  "  sly 
Reynolds."  This  name  is  indeed  comroon 
among  rustics  who  (as  I  used  to  do)  follow 
the  fox  afoot.  The  origin  of  the  name  is 
obvious  enough.  C.  C.  B. 

Laymen  reading  the  Lessons  in  Cathe- 
DRAJJH  (9^*»  S.  V.  376,  466)  —In  the  Anglican 
Cathedral  at  Adelaide  the  lessons  on  Sunday 
mornings  are  read  regularly  by  a  layman. 
In  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,  Melbourne,  the 
lessons  are  occasionally  read  by  laymen. 

Alex.  Leepeb. 

Trinity  College,  University  of  Melbourne. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  &n. 

The  Oxford  EnglUh  Dictionary/.  Edited  by  James 
A.  H.  Murray. —Vol.  IV.  Green— Ovzzem.  By 
Henry  Bradley,  Hon.  M.A.Oxon.— Vol.  V.  /n- 
vcJid—Jtw,  (Oxford,  Clarendon  Press.) 
The  new  vear  brings  with  it,  according:  to  promise, 
two  double  jtarts  of  the  great  English  dictionary, 
the  advance  in  which  is  of  the  most  encouraging 
nature.  Under  the  care  of  Mr.  Bradley,  the  first 
portion,  extending  over  135  pages,  or  405  columns, 
concludes  the  fourth  volume,  covering  the  letters 
F  and  G.  The  part  now  first  issued  comprises 
4.238  words  and  16,204  quotations,  as  against  1.715 
words  and  1,610  quotations  in  the  *  Century  Dic- 
tionary,* the  most  advanced  and  important  of  com- 
petitors. As  regards  etymology,  the  instalment 
has  about  the  same  number  of  words  of  Teutonic 
and  Romance  origin,  together  with  some  words, 
chiefly  in  gymn^  gj/n-i  and  gi/ry  of  Greek  derivation, 
and  others,  in  (nia^  g^iara^  guaiac,  giiano,  &c., 
redolent  of  Spanish  and  Portuguese  exploration 
of  America.  Oreen^  the  first  word  in  the  part,  is 
used  in  many  senses,  by  Shakes])eare  especially,  as 
connected  with  wan  or  pale,  in  which  sense  we  are 
bidden  cf.  the  Greek  yXeup^c  an<l  **  in  the  green- 
sickness." See  also  "in  the  green  tree"  and  to 
"  keeT>  the  memory  green."  Of  the  **  board  of  green 
cloth  "  a  full  history  is  given.  The  first  use  quoted 
of  this  as  cc|uivalent  to  a  billiard-table  reacnes  us 
from  Cambridge.  For  **  green-eyed  monster  "  there 
iR  no  citation  earlier  than  Shakes|>eare.  Milton 
has  "  green-eyed  Neptune."  The  fp-rt/  in  ffreyhwind 
has  no  connexion  with  the  adjectival  or  substantival 
use  of  grey^  and  its  source  is  unknown.  Curious 
information  is  supplied  under  .vrw/iroT?.  (?rt>/has 
a  notable  and  an  interesting  history  and  develop- 
ment:  the  earliest  use  quoted  of  "come  to  griei" 
is  from  Thackeray's  *NewcomeR.*  Griffin,  in  the 
Anglo-Indian  sense  of  a  newcomer,  is  of  uncertain 
origin.  Its  use  in  a  kindred  sense  goes  back  to  the 
close  of  the  eighteenth  century.  There  seems  no 
hint  of  its  being  derived  from  the  name  of  some 
individual.  Another  word  of  unknown  origin  is 
f/rilAe,  a  young  salmon.  Grima/kin=ca,t  is  con- 
nect urally  derived    from    grey,   adj.,   and  mafkin. 

KltiilrAArtAotta  Vioa  flit^mti.  Ti/fttll'iiik  na  4  Via  viomA  /\f  a  AAn«1 


with  the  verb  closely  connected  with  it,  gr^md, 
Orit,  in  the  use  "  the  true  grit,"  seems  to  reach  us 
from  America.  Grizzle=to  fret  is  older  in  dialectal 
use  than  any  instance  advanced.  The  derivation 
of  grog  from  Admiral  Vernon's  grogram  cloak, 
advanced  bv  Grose,  is  favourably  regarded.  On 
the  origin  of  groin,  T)art  of  the  human  body.  Prof. 
Skeat  has  an  interesting  note.  Groom=ma,n  child 
or  man  is  said  to  be  of  difficult  etjrmology,  there 
being  no  trace  of  the  word  in  any  Teutonic  lan- 
guage. The  present  sense,  a  man  who  attends  to 
horses,  was  only  contextual  until  the  seventeenth 
century.  The  development  of  grovtl,  grovellinp, 
seems  to  involve  some  difficulty.  Other  words  in 
this  part  that  repay  close  attention  are  groitse,  gnih, 
grtidge,  gu^nt,  miHd,  and  g^i^h.  Gun  ofTers  sitecial 
attractions.  In  addition  to  the  prefatory  matter 
indispensable  to  the  volume,  Mr.  Bradley  gives  a 
valuable  introduction  to  the  letter  G. 

In  the  part  under  the  direct  charge  of  Dr. 
Murray  the  letter  I  is  finished  and  J  is  carried 
half  way.  The  innumerable  words  in  in  are  dis- 
posed of,  the  letter  ending  with  the  word  izzard, 
an  old  name  for  z.  Among  the  Latin  words  in  tr 
intrudes  what  is  called  "  the  great  word "  iron, 
special  attention  being  directed  to  the  combinations 
ironclad  and  IronHidta.  The  history  of  iron  itself 
is  difficult,  and  its  origin  is  anything  rather  than 
clear,  some  of  the  early  forms  appearing  very 
remote  from  that  now  prevalent.  It  is  very 
striking  to  find  the  phrase  "the  iron  entered 
into  his  soul"  due  to  a  mistranslation  of  the 
Hebrew  into  the  Latin  of  the  Vulgate,  the 
literal  meaning  of  the  Hebrew  being  that  his 
person  entered  into  iron  —  that  is,  chains. 
Ironclad  was  first  officially  used  in  England  in 
1866.  Irormde  dates  back  to  Edmund  II..  but,  as 
applied  to  Cromwellian  troopers,  was  a  nickname 
01  Rojjalist  origin.  Among  words  the  origin  of 
which  is  confessedly  difficult  are  Irisih  and  tri"=to 
affect  with  weariness,  &c.  It  is  declared  to  be  the 
roost  troublesome  of  pronouns,  and  its,  originally 
written  tV'x,  has  an  edifying  history  of  its  own, 
dating  from  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century. 
Ittt  was  not  admitted  in  the  Bible  of  1611, 
nor  does  it  appear  in  any  work  of  Shak&speare 
published  in  his  lifetime.  Few  parts  of  the 
*  Dictionary '  are  more  interesting  than  that  deal- 
ing with  the  letter  J,  the  growth  of  which  is 
exceedingly  curious.  Jach  in  its  various  senses 
occupies  many  deeply  interesting  pages.  We  have 
failea  to  note  the  word  Jacl'-w—e  for  a  strapping 
woman  of  no  virtue,  which  is,  or  was,  in  dialectal 
use  in  the  North,  and  is  curious,  as  applying  a 
masculine  word  to  a  feminine  object.  The  d  in 
jaundice,  the  origin  of  which  is  jav7ie,  yellow,  is  a 
phonetic  accretion,  as  in  abound,  wvvd,  thvnder, 
&o.  Jaw  is  another  word  the  origin  of  which  is 
difficult  to  trace,  as  is  that  of  jeer.  No  satisfactory 
origin  for  jerry-lmi/t,  jf.rry-buifder,  &c..  has  been 
found,  one. put  forward  in  the  press  deriving  it 
from  a  Liverpool  firm  of  builders  not  standing 
investigation.  In  picking  out  a  few  plums  from  a 
work  which  abounds  in  such  we  cannot  but  impress 
ui>on  our  readers  the  importance  of  securing  oppor- 
tunities of  universal  access  to  a  work  the  import- 
ance and  utility  of  which  cannot  be  over-estimated. 
Every  literary  institution  should  be  compelled  to 
subscribe.    We  should  bo  glad  to  participate  in  a 

■nltaimA   fnt*  nivwi/linar   nrtniAa    fr\i*   aii^K    villa «va   inafi. 


9*8.viljan.26.i9oi.j       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


79 


be  given  for  preservation  and  guardianship.  In  the 
full  sense  of  the  word  it  is  a  national  undertaking. 
Government— such  Governments  as  we  get— will  do 
nothing  to  encourage  work  of  the  class  or  workers 
such  as  those  to  whom  it  is  owing.  A  great  univer- 
sity is  prepared  to  bear  much  of  the  cost,  but  in 
so  doing  6nds  its  educational  resources  crippled. 
Everything  that  private  co-operatioA  can  do  to 
lighten  cost  should  be  done,  to  prove  to  those 
to  whom  the  book  is  due  that  their  labours,  if 
norecognized  by  the  State,  are  at  least  held  in 
highest  account  by  scholarship.  We  have  received 
the  fourth  volume  in  its  half -morocco  binding,  and 
shall  seek  an  opportunity  of  saying  something 
farther  about  it. 

The  Golden  Bough :  a  Study  in  Magic  and  Rdiyion. 
By  J.  G.  Frazer,  D.C.L.  Second  Edition,  Revised 
and  Enlarged.  3  vols.  (Macmillan  &  Co.) 
No  satire  upon  the  modern  craze  for  instancing  the 
best  dozen,  score,  or  hundred  books  can  better 
show  the  futility  of  such  things  than  the  fact  that 
from  all  the  lists  we  have  looked  over  with  amuse- 
ment, not  wholly  untinged  with  contempt,  the 
name  of  Dr.  Frazer's  *  Golden  Bough'  has  been 
absent.  Some  books  of  enduring  value,  such  as 
Darwin's  *  Origin  of  Species,'  have  necessarily  been 
included  in  lists  made  up  generally  of  works  of 
purely  temi)orary  and  ephemeral  reputation,  with 
which  the  next  generation  will  no  more  concern 
itself  than  the  average  man  concerns  himself  with 
**  the  snows  of  yester-jear.**  Yet  a  book  of  genuine 
importance  such  as  this  has  alwa^  been  overlooked. 
Neither  final  nor  conclusive  in  its  argument  is,  as 
its  author  will  admit,  *  The  Crolden  Bough.'  It  is 
none  the  less  epoch-marking,  and  is  the  most  im- 
portant contribution  yet  made  to  a  knowledge  of 
primitive  creed  and  culture  and  to  what  may 
perhaps  be  called  a  hvdrographical  survey  of  the 
world  of  mystery  and  darkness  in  the  midst  of 
which  man's  life  is  cast.  Recognition  of  its  merits 
was  at  first  confined  to  a  limited  circle.  When  in 
18B0  the  first  edition  saw  the  light,  it  attracted 
little  attention  outside  those  already  interested 
deeply  in  the  class  of  speculations  with  which  it 
dealt.  Some  of  those  who  purchased  it  on  the 
strength  of  its  title  or  the  commendation  they 
heard  fall  from  competent  lips  were  in  a  position 
similar  to  the  men  who  under  a  like  kind  of 
delusion  bought  'The  Diversions  of  Pur  ley.' 
8k>wly,  however,  a  sense  of  its  transcendent 
interest  and  merits  spread  abroad,  and  a  second 
edition,  augmented  to  double  the  bulk  of  the 
original,  appears  within  eleven  years,  in  answer 
to  a  persistent  and  earnest  demand  on  the  part  of 
•choUra. 

The  book  is  not  wholly  original.  Dr.  Frazer 
hails  as  his  master  Robertson  Smith,  the  well- 
known  author  of  *The  Religion  of  the  Semites,' 
and  he  owns  that  without  the  works  of  the 
late  W.  Mannhardt  on  the  living  superstitions 
of  the  peasant  his  work  could  scarcely  have 
been  attempted.  His  way  had,  moreover. 
been  prepared  for  him  by  scores  of  keen-eyed 
travellers,  who  had  observed  and  collected  such 
superstitious  practices  as  form  the  base  of  all 
prunitive  reli^on,  and  gatherers  and  sorters  of 
folk-lore  practices,  the  full  significance  of  which 
thoM  who  first  collected  them  were  far  from  com- 
pteheiiding.  In  a  ix>rtion  of  his  task  he  had  been 
to  some  extent  anticipated  by  Dr.  Tylor.  whose 
^MmitiTO  Ciiltiire»'  the  leoond  edition  oi  which 


appeared  in  1873,  remains  an  authority.  Without 
going  further  into  the  question  of  indeotedness,  we 
may  dismiss  the  long  list  of  Dr.  Frazer's  prede- 
cessors. Great  as  are  the  additions  he  has 
made  in  the  second  edition  now  published,  they 
are  not  exhaustive  of  his  own  collections  even, 
since  he  expresses  a  wish,  which  will  be  generally 
reciprocated,  that  he  may  before  long  meet  the 
reader  again  in  the  fields  he  has  traversed. 

Especially  important  are  the  additions  that  have 
been  made,  since  the  appearance  of  Dr.  Frazei-'s 
first  ediiion,  to  our  knowledge  of  the  habits  and 
practices  of  the  inhabitants  of  Central  Australia. 
Prominent  among  them  is  *The  Native  Tribes  of 
Central  Australia '  of  Spencer  and  GiUen,  to  which 
we  drew  attention  (see  9**»  S.  iii.  3^).  Dr.  Fra/.er 
has  also  been  privileged  with  access  to  a  work, 
unpublished  as  yet,  on  Australian  folk-lore,  l)y 
Miss  Mary  E.  B.  Howitt.  Mr.  W.  W.  Skeai's 
recently  published  work  on  the  Malay  Peninsula, 
with  which  personally  we  are  unfamiliar,  is  also  a 
source  of  supplementary  information.  Important 
and  numerous  as  are  the  additions  from  these  and 
other  sources,  they  add  little  or  nothing  to  tlie 
main  thread  of  Dr.  Frazer's  argument  or  assump- 
tion. The  central  idea  was  thoroughly  and  con- 
vincingly worked  out  in  the  first  edition,  and  tlie 
explanation  of  the  significance  of  the  Rtx  nemorum 
and  of  the  mystery  of  the  Arician  trees, 
in  whose  dim  shadow 

The  ghastly  priest  doth  reign. 
The  priest  who  slew  the  slayer. 

And  shall  himself  be  slain, 

remains  what  it  was— a  masterly  and  imaginative 
piece  of  reasoning  and  analysis.  We  use  the  word 
tmayiiuUivt  advisedly,  sioce^  as  says  K.  O.  Miiller, 
imagination  must  always  m  historical  inquiries 
'*  supply  the  bonds  that  link  together  the  broken 
fragments  of  tradition.'  What  is  the  nature  of 
the  most  important  departure  that  has  been  made 
is  shown  in  the  change  in  the  second  half  of  the 
title.  In  the  original  this  stands,  *A  Study  in 
Comparative  Kehgion.'  It  now  runs,  *  A  Study  in 
Magic  and  Religion.'  The  conclusion  now  stated 
is  that  '*  the  movement  of  the  higher  thought,  no 
far  as  we  can  trace  it,  has  been  from  magic  through 
religion  to  science."  Nothing  is  dogmatically 
advanced,  and  Dr.  Frazer  is  not  only  aware  tliat 
much  that  he  states  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  deti- 
nitely  or  finally  established,  but  is  disinclined  to 
tie  himself  down  to  any  absolute  assertion.  As 
regards  science  even,  he  holds  that  **at  bottom 
the  generalizations  of  science,  or,  in  common  par- 
lance, the  laws  of  nature,  are  merely  hypotheses 
devised  to  explain  that  ever-shifting  phantasma- 
goria of  thought  which  we  dignify  with  the  high- 
sounding  names  of  the  world  and  the  universe. 
In  the  last  analysis  magic,  religion,  and  science  are 
notliing  but  theories  of  thought ;  and  as  science  has 
supplanted  its  predecessors,  so  it  may  hereafter  be 
itself  superseded  by  some  more  perfect  hypothesis, 
perhaps  by  some  totally  diiferent  way  of  looking  at 
the  phenomena— of  registering  the  shadowu  on  the 
screen— of  which  we  in  this  generation  can  form  no 
idea." 

What  are  the  general  purpose  and  contention  of 
Dr.  Frazer's  work  we  must  suppose  our  readers  to 
know.  If  they  are  personally  interested  in  folk- 
lore, they  cannot  well  be  ignorant.  If  they  arc 
otherwise,  they  have  no  excuse  for  remaining  so. 
Space,  at  least,  utterly  faila  us  to  supply  tVi<b  Vw^^hi* 


80 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (9»  s.  vil  jak.  an.  imi. 


ledge.  We  have  not  reftd  afresh  the  first  edition, 
and  cannot  precisely  say  where  the  additions  are 
to  be  found.  They  seem  to  be  spread  over  the 
entire  book.  Some  of  the  new  matter  is  more  con- 
troversial than  the  old,  and  much  of  it  also  more 
conjectural  where  all  is  necessarily  conjecture. 
8tili.  when  conviction  does  not  necessarily  and 
inevitably  follow  perusal,  the  disposition  to  read 
and  study  afresh  is  never  wanting.  One  of  the 
subjects  which  strike  us  as  entirely  new,  and  which 
on  reference  we  fail  to  trace  in  the  first  issue,  is 
what  is  said  concerning  the  Jewish  festival  of  the 
Purim  and  the  attempt  to  coonect  it  with  the 
great  Babylonian  festival  of  the  new  year  called 
Zakmuk  and  the  8acean  festival  and  its  mock  king 
Zoganes,  held  at  Babylon  during  five  days  of  the 
month  Lous.  This  leads  on  to  the  question  whether 
by  the  destruction  of  an  efiigy  of  Haman  the  modem 
Jews  have  kept  up  a  reminiscence  of  the  ancient 
custom  of  crucifying  or  hanging  a  man  at  this 
festival;  whether  they  may  at  an  earlier  epoch 
have  regularly  compelled  a  condemned  criminal  to 
play  the  tragic  part,  and  whether  accordingly  Christ 
perished  in  the  character  of  Uaman.  We  see  no 
confirmation  of  this  idea,  but  are  in  no  sense 
entitled  to  speak  upon  it.  Other  supi)ositions  or 
views  connected  with  this  subject  do  not  invariably 
commend  themselves  to  us,  but  they  are  propounded 
so  tentativelv,  and  with  such  an  avoidance  of  speak- 
ing ex  coUhtara^  that  they  beget  a  minimum  of  op- 
position. Almost  all  that  is  said  with  regard  to 
Jewish  observances  or  rites  seems  to  be  new.  What 
is  advanced  upon  the  legends  of  Sesostris  and 
8emiramis  and  concerning  Phoenician  and  Baby- 
lonian deities  a])pears  first  in  the  present  work, 
much  of  it  being  derived  from  Francis  Charles 
Movers,  who  remains  an  authority  on  things 
Phoenician.  An  interesting  appendix  on  seclusion 
from  sun  and  earth  comes  as  a  valuable  supplement 
to  what  is  said  earlier  in  the  book  on  the  treatment 
of  girls  on  arriving  at  pubertj.  As  the  book  is 
practically  double  its  original  size,  it  is  natural  that 
there  should  be  much  new  matter  inviting  com- 
ment. With  small  portions  of  this,  taken  almost  at 
random,  we  have  incidentally  dealt.  With  no 
thought  of  participating  in  harvest  labours,  we 
have  gleaned  a  few  sheaves,  and  we  can  but  advise 
our  readers  to  enter  into  the  same  fields.  We 
have  neither  intention  nor  disposition  to  carry 
Dr.  Frazer's  argument  further  than  he  himself 
takes  it,  and  there  are  points  at  which  we  feel 
inclined  to  break  away  from  him.  We  still  regard 
the  book  as  one  of  the  most  important  and  repre- 
sentative of  modem  times,  the  most  sincere,  earnest, 
and  competent  effort  yet  made  to  reconcile  together 
the  various  forms  of  worship  of  productive  force,  to 
explain  the  significance  of  blood  rites,  and  to  show 
with  what  shuddering  fancies  humanity  has  tilled 
the  void  around  it.    The  index  is  quite  inadequate. 

The  Record  of  tht  Winter  Mtetinqn  and  Summer 
Exairifions,  ISdU-lOUO,  of  the  Upper  Norwood  Athe- 
naeum contains  an  account  of  good  work  well  done. 
Many  fresh  places  were  visited.  These  included 
Christ's  Hospital,  where  Mr.  tStalley  took  the 
members  through  the  buildings;  also  Lincoln's 
Inn  and  the  two  churches  of  8t.  Pancras.  Among 
summer  excursions  were  visits  to  Oxford.  Favers- 
ham,  Loughton,  Cobham,  and  Enfield.    There  is  a 


to  the  proprietors  of  the  lUuatrated  London  NeiM, 
the  OraphiCf  and  others,  for  their  help  in  illustrating 
the  Record.  The  illustrations  include  the  long- 
threatened  old  gateway  of  Lincoln's  Inn,  to  which 
we  wish  a  long  life.  We  congratulate  Mr.  J. 
Stanley  and  Mr.  W.  F.  Uarradenoe  on  the  careful 
way  in  which  they  continue  to  edit  this  interesting 
Record, 

The  fourth  volume  of   *Musgrave's   Obituary* 

iL-^-Pa),  edited  by  Sir  Oreorge  J.  Armytage,  Bart., 
r.S.A.,  is  now  being  issued  to  the  members  of  the 
Harleian  Society.  The  fifth  volume  of  this  ex- 
haustive work  is  in  the  press,  and  the  sixth  and 
final  volume  in  the  transcriber's  hands.  The 
Society  is  also  issuing  to  the  members  of  the 
Register  Section  Vol.  I.  of  '  The  Registers  of  Bath 
Abbey,'  containing  the  christenings  and  marriages 
recorded  there  from  1669  to  1800,  edited  by  Arthur 
J.  Jewers.  The  second  volume,  which  is  in  the 
press,  will  give  the  burials  for  the  same  period,  with 
an  index  to  the  whole. 

The  twenty-fourth  volume  of  *  Archseologia  Can- 
tiana,'  being  the  transactions  of  the  Kent  Archso- 
IcMpcal  Society,  just  sent  to  the  members,  has  been 
edited  by  the  Rev.  Canon  C.  F.  Routledge,  F.S.A. 
It  contains  the  second  and  concluding  part  of  the 
valuable  monograph  by  Mr.  W.  H.  St.  John  Hope 
on  *The  Arohitectural  History  of  the  Cathednd 
Church  and  Monastery  of  St.  Andrew  at  Rochester,' 
illustrated  with  several  large  plans,  beautifully 
drawn  and  coloured.  Other  leamea  papers  are 
contributed  by  Mr.  George  Payne,  F.L.S.,  F.S.A., 
the  Rev.  G.  M.  Livett,  Lord  Northbourae,  the  late 
Mr.  George  Dowker,  F.G.S.,  Mr.  A.  A.  Arnold, 
F.S.A.,  &C.  The  volume  is  well  illustrated,  and  a 
copious  index  is  given. 


We  mtut  call  spedeU  attention  to  the  /ollowin§ 
notices:— 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  name 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub- 
lication, but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Ws  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately. 

To  secure  insertion  of  communications  corre- 
spondents must  observe  the  following  rules.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answer- 
ing queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previous 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 
put  in  ixarentheses,  immediately  after  the  exact 
heading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repeat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  oom- 
munication  **  Duplicate." 

A.  Cooke  ("Motto  on  Seal").-This  is  Welsh— 
"  Remember  me," 

AOTICE, 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addreeaed  to 
"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries '  "—Advertise- 
ments and  Business  Letters  to  "The  Publisher "— 
at  the  Oliice,  Bream'sBuildings,  Chancery  Lane,  E.C. 


.  8.  vn.  Jan.  ».  1801.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


The  ATHSNjBUU  for  January  19  contaim  ArticUi  on 

mrXIISOM  la  th«  SOUTH  SEAB. 

Tto  TKUTH  ABOUT  OMAR. 

CI1U8T*8  OOLLBOB,  CAMBRIDOB. 

OUBK  PLANT.  STOMB,  Ud  AMIMAL  W0B8UIP. 

BUTO&T  of  HBWPO&T  PAQMBLL. 

BUUGAnOMAL  BOOKfl. 

•rOKTB  nd  PASnifXS. 

GEBBK  PHIIXMOPHT. 

BBCBHT  TBBSB. 

UieLZBH  PHILOLOGY. 

UUB  UBIiA&T  TABLB-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

n»  LATB  BISHOP  of  LONDON ;  DU.  CRBIOHTON  M  a  0LAS8 
TBACHBaj  "PUIB  orf  la  LITBllAKT  BNOLI8H  >  CHAN- 
CBLLOH  OHHISTIB  {  Ttaa  THBORIBS  as  to  HUCUOWN ;  UlL 
MUSJM  OOIT  TTLBR  ;  Ta«  INUOUPUHATBD  ASSOCIATIUM  of 
HBaO  MASTB&S. 


UTBHART  GOSSIP. 

8CIBMCB  :~Ubfar7  l^bto;  Atlww  aad  Map«i 


ffIlBAKTB:--aUppmdaie  Funltan;  Books  lOr  Stadoatt;   Dadley 

Oallciy  lAaOMapo  BzhlUtfoa ;  (Salo ;  Gossip. 
HCSiO:— Tka  Wook ;  Gossip ;  Performaaeas  Neat  Week. 
UKAMAr-AB  AatOffaph  Flar  of  PhlHp  MMslogeri  Aa  Uakaowa 

Bscly  AUaaloa  to  ttbakspcars  t  Gossip. 


ru  ATBitNAiUM/or  January  6  contains  ArtideM  on 

Iks  OXPOBO  BOOK  Of  BNGLISH  TBBSB. 

TW  &ULBK8  Of  tke  SOUTH. 

A  CAPTAIN  Of  tko  SIKHS. 

Tfeo  SIOliT  Of  PLOHBNCB.  * 

OLD  HNGLUH  GLOSSES. 

Ike  NMW  PAPT&L 

BBW  DANTE  LITBHATUBB. 

A  STEIAN  SBOT. 

BBW  NOTELi-.-PnJvdfOd:  God's  Ladt  The  Swaj  of  PhUlppa-, 
milin'i  111 e« tke nkO)  Oofloaltted tohlB Ouurge i  Amoar,  Aaioar. 

AMBBICaW  HISTOHT. 

TBANSLATION8. 

BOUOOBAPHIOAL  LITBHATU&B. 

SOUniSH  HUTOBT. 

aOOSE  tm  CHILDBBN. 

OOm  LIBBABT  TABLB.—LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

Be  ABOONAUTS  of  the  NBW  AGBt  The  BOOK  8ALBS  Of  1900, 
CHABT»BS  LAMB  as  a  LANDED  PEOP&IBTOilt  The  DATE  of 
XING  ALPKHDV  DEATH;  DANTE  T&AN8LATI0N  SEEN  In 
lS0i  AMOTHBB  NBW  THBORT  as  to  HUCHOWN,  PAPERS  of 
WILLIAM  PBNN  i  The  SBOOND  CASKET  LBITER. 


I  i— Beeka  oa  Btoetrleltf ;  Boteatoa  Llteiatare  i  Astroaomloel 

NeiBSi  Meeilafs  Nest  Week ;  Gossip. 
POIB  ABTSj-Uhrarr  Thbto)  The  Society  of  OU  Palaters  t  Romaa 

BrlalalBltoOi  Goeslp. 
MUBJC  :->LISe  ef  Beethoyea  >  Goselp ;  Perfsnnaaces  Neat  Week. 
IMLAMA:-Hef«d  i  The  likeaees  of  the  Night  -,  Goesip. 


The  A  THBNJBUM  for  January  It  eontaint  Articlu  on 

TWO  CELTIC  POETS. 

LEADING  DOCUMENTS  of  ENGLISH  HISTORY. 

MADAGASCAR  aad  MAURITIUS. 

ABERDEENSHIRE  PLACE-NAMES. 

RECORDS  Of  HAMMURABL 

ORIENTAL  STUDY  In  BERLIN. 

NEW  NOVELS  :-Dr.  North  aad  his  Friends ;    The  Inner  Shrine 

Deacon  Bndhnry. 
MILITARY  BOOKS. 
BTHNOLOGY  and  FOLK-LORE. 
NEW  TESTAMENT  LITERATURE. 
SHORT  STORIES. 
CLASSICAL  PHILOLOGY. 
POLITICAL  ECONOMY  and  HISTORY. 
OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 
SOPHUd  BCHANDORPH  ;  OOPTRIGHT  In  SERIAL  MATTER  i  The 

THBORIBS  as  to  HUCHOWN  ;  A  RECLAMATION  i  DKATH  of 

KING  ALFRED. 

Auo- 
LITERARY  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE :— St.  Kllda ;  Medlonl  Books « Geofiaphlenl  Notes  -,  Soetetlcs ) 

Meetings  Next  Week  ;  Gossip. 
FINE  ARTS  '.—Scottish  Market  Crosses ;  Ubiary  Thble ;  Goeslp. 
MUSIC :— The  Week ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Neat  Week. 
DRAMA :— The  Week ;  Gossip. 

The  A  THENMUa  for  December  t9  oontaine  ArtieUe  oh 

The  BARONESS  DE  BODE. 
The  JEW  in  LONDON. 
KHURASAN  and  SISTAN. 
ALIENS  In  SIXTEENTH-CENTURY  LONDON. 
TWO  BOOKS  Of  FRENCH  TRAVEL. 
The  OXFORD  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY. 
AMONG  the  BERBERS  of  ALGERIA. 
NEW  NOVELS :- Jean  Keir  of  CtalgaeU ;  Second  Lore. 
SPORTS  and  PASTIMES. 
CHRISTMAS  BOOKS. 
BIBUCAL  LITERATURE. 
KMGUBH  and  IRISH  HISTORY. 
TALES  Of  ADVENTURR 
SCHOOL-BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  Of  NEW  BOOKS. 
The  BOOK  SALES  of  1800;   The  HEAD  MASTERS'  OONFBRBNCB  i 
1-he  TWO  BRADFORDS  i  SALES  t  ROBERT  MELVILLE'S  RIDK. 

AUM- 

LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE :-The  Life  of  Fhstenr ;  Ubtary  Tkble }  Societies  i  Meetings 

Next  Week ;  Goeslp. 
FINE  ARTi* -.-Preach  Architects  and  Sealptors;  Ubrary  TkUet  Mr. 

F.  R.  Plekersgill    Notes  from  Rome  -,  Gossip. 
MUSIC :— Llbnuy  TsUe ;  Goeslp  i  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  -.—The  Week ;  John  Shakspcare,  of  Ingon,  and  Gilbert,  of  St. 

Bridgets  I  Gossip. 


I%e  ATHEN^UM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 

JOHN    C    FBANC18,    Athennom    Office,    Bream's  Buildings,    Chancery  Lane,   B.C\ 

And  of  all  Newngents. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9-  8.  vil  jan. 


SMITH,  ELDJBR^JCO/J^UBLICATK 

THB  "HAWOBTH"  EDITION  OF  THE 

LIFE  AND  WORKS  OF  THE  SISTERS  BRONTE 

In  7  voU.  large  orowQ  8vo,  oloth,  gilt  top,  tt«.  each ;  or  in  set  oloth  bludiag,  gilt  top,  21.  dt.  the  Set. 

WITH  PORTRAITS  AND  ILLUdT RATIONS,  liioludiog  View*  of  Places  de«orii>ed  la  the  Works,  repr 
Photograph*  •peolallr  teken  for  the  purpose  oy  Mr.  W.  R.  Blind,  of  Duffleld,  Derby,  la  coojunctloa  with  Mr 
Kebitk,  of  Deroy.  Medalists  of  the  Ruyai  Photographic  Society,  latroduoiious  U)  the  Works  are  suppl 
HUMPHRY  WaRU,  aad  au  iutroduouoa  aad  Noiet  to  Mrs.  Oaakell'i  *Life  of  Charlotte  firoate '  by  Mr.  CI 
dHORf  RR,  the  emiueut  firoute  authority. 

*«*  AlBo  the  LIBRARY  KUITION.  7  voU.  each,  ouatalalng  5  Illuitratioaa,  large  crowa  Sv^o,  bt.  each.  Th' 
BDITION,  7  vols,  ■mall  pott  8vo,  limp  cloth,  or  oluth  boards,  gilt  top,  2s.  Qd.  each.  And  the  POCKET  BDIl 
■mall  foap.  8vo,  each  with  Frontispiece,  bound  in  ciuth,  with  gut  top,  i$.  M.  per  volume;  or  the  Set,  in  gold-l( 
case,  12*.  <jd. 

THB  BIOGBAPHICAIi  EDITION  OF 

W.    M.    THACKERAY'S    WORKS. 

In  13  vols.,  large  crown  8vo.  cloth,  gilt  top,  tt«.  This  £iew  and  Revised  Rditlon  comprises  additional  i 
hitherto  unpublished  Letters,  Sketches,  and  Drawings,  derived  from  the  Author's  original  MS6.  and  Note-Bool 
volume  includes  a  Memoir  in  the  form  of  an  Introduction  by  Mrs.  RICHMOND  RITCHIB. 

V  TUK  THIRTEEN  VOLUMES  ARK  ALSO  SUPPLIED  IN  SET  CLOTH  BINDING,  GILT  TOP, 
%*  A.  Jhroapeetut  of  the  EixUont  voith  UpecitMH  Hages,  will  bt  sent  post  free  on  application. 


The   CATHOIiIC    BEACTION. 

Portrait  and  Index  to  tlie  7  vol*.    li«. 


WORKS  BY  THE  LATB  JOHN  ADBINQTON  8TM0NDS. 
The  RENAISSANCE  in  ITALY.    New  and  Cheaper  Edition.    7  vols,  large  crown 
The  AGB  of  the  DBSPOTS.    With  a  Portraiu    Is.  6d.  |  ITAIilAN  LITBBATUBE.    2  vols.  1^. 
Tbe  BEVrVAIi  of  liBABNING.    7«.  6rf. 
The  FINB  ABTS.    Is.  <kf. 

SKETCHES  and  STUDIESinlTALY  and  GREECE.  3  vols,  large  crown  8vo,7 

*?*.  1?  P^^P^rt"*  t*^*  We'^  Bditiou  of  Lhe  Ute  Mr.  J.  d.  Symonds*  three  volumes  of  travels,  *  Sketches 
Greece,  Sketches  and  Studies  in  It*ly,'  and  *  Italian  Byways,'  nothing  has  been  changed  except  the  order  oi 
For  the  convenience  of  travellers  a  topographical  arrangement  has  been  adopted. 

SHAKESPEARE'S  PREDECESSORS   in  the  ENGLISH  DRAMA. 

Cheaper  Kdition.    Large  crown  8vo,  7«.  M. 
%*  This  Volume  is  uniform  with  the  Mew  Bditlons  of  the  Tntvel  Sketches  and  *  The  Benaissanoe  in  Itt 


WORKS  BT  THB  LATE  J^ATTHEW  ARNOLD. 


Second  SSdition.    Crown  8vo, 


PASSAGES  from   the   FBOSB  WHITINCkS  of 

MATIHBW  ARNOLD.    Crown  gTo.YrM.     ^•»^*-"'"«    "* 
Vontent$:—i.  Literatar*— S.  Poliuet  and  Society—^.  PhilosophT  aad 
Uttligloa. 

LAST  ESSAYS  on  OHUBCH  and  BEIiIGION. 

with  a  PrelBce.    Crown  8to,  7«. 
MIXED  ESSAYS. 

»a. 

CVm<en<«:-I>emoor«c7  —  Kquallt7  — Irish  Catholicism  and  British 
LlbermliBiu— Porro  Unum  est  Mecessariain-A  Ualde  to  KoKlisb  Llterm- 
ture-Faililand— A  French  Critic  on  Milton— A  French  Critic  on  Ouetho 
— Oeorire  Hand. 

IiITEBATUBE  and  DOGMA :  an  Easay  towards 

a  Ikstter  Apprehvntlon  of  the  hible.    Popular  Jtdluon,  with  a  New 
Preface.    Crown  8to,  2m.  W. 

GOD  and  the  BIBIiE:   a  Sequel  to  'Literature 

and  Dogma.'   Popular  Kdition,  with  al4ew  Preface.    Crown  8tu. 
2«.  6d. 


ST.  PAUL  and  FBOTESTANTISM :  ^ 
Esaajs.    Popular  SdiUon,  with  a  New  Preface.    Cro 
{    _  CotUtnta :— St.  Paol  and  Protestantism— PnritanUm  ant 
-Modem  Dissent— A  Comment  on  Christmas. 


CUI/rUBE  and  ANABOEnT :  an  Essa: 

oal  and  ttodal  Criudsm.    Popular  KaiUon.    Crown  e 

IBISH  ESSAYS,  and  Others.    Fopulf 

Crown  8to,  it.  <UL 

On   the   STUDY   of    CELTIC    LITE 

Popular  Bdiuon.    Crown  8to,  la,  (M. 
On  TBANSIiATING  HOMEB.    FopuL 

Crown  8to,  :u.  6ii. 

FBIENDSHTP'S    GABLAND.     Seooo 
Hmall  orown  8vo,  bound  in  white  cloth,  4j.  Od. 


WORKS  BY  LESLIE  STEPHEN 


HOUBS  in  a  LIBBABY.    Bevised,  Bearran«ed. 

and  cheaper  Kdltion.  Wim  Addidonal  Chapters,  3  vols,  crown  8to 
8«.  each. 

The  LIFE  of  SIB  JAMES  FITZJAMES 

BiKPHKN.Bart..Jt.C.«.L.a  Jud^e  of  the  Hifh  Court  ^jSkuoe! 
Hr  his  Brother,  LBSLIE  STEPHKN.  With  2  Portraits.  t»ocond 
Kdition     Dem7  8to,  Id*. 


LIFE  of  HENBY  FA WCETT.  With  i 

tmits.    Fifth  ftdlUon.    Large  crown  8to,  12«.  6d. 

The    SCIENCE    of  ETHICS:     an   E 

Kthleal  Theury,  as  Modiflod  by  the  Doctrine  of  iSv 
8ro.  104. 

A  HISTOBY  of  ENGLISH  THOUGj 

KlOHlKl£M-UCKNltiK\.    Second  EdiUon.  2  vols 


%•  Mtssrs.  SMITH,  ELDER  Sf  CO.  toUl  be  happy  to  fonoard  a  CA  TALOGUE  qf  their  Publications  postfrtt  o 


FOTES    AND    QUERIES: 

%  yUMnm  oi  Inter^mmnnuattoii 


FOB 


ilTERARY    MEN,     GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


''When  fonad,  make  a  note  ot"— Captain  Guttlb. 


To.  162.  [sLSS.]  Saturday,  February  2,  1901.        { 


Psxos  FouBpnrox. 

Rtfitttnd  M  m  Nmnpapmr. 


MACMILLAN    &    CO/S    LIST. 

A  NBW  AND  ABBIDGBD  BDITION. 

THE  LIFE  OF  EDWARD  WHITE  BENSON 

QCBeOme  Archbithop  of  Canterbnry).    By  hit  Son,  A.  O.  BBNSON.    Bxtra  orown  8vo,  8f .  ed,  net.    [Beady  immtdiaUfy. 

LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  PHILLIPS  BROOKS. 

By  Prof.  ALEXANDBB  V.  Q,  ALLBN.    With  PortralU  and  Illiutratioai.    In  2  voU.  gilt  topi,  8vo,  30t.  net. 
STANDARD.—**  Affords  a  most  Interesting  picture  of  one  who  not  only  fasdnated  men  by  his  oratory,  but  al 
Uanltted  them  by  his  suggeetiveness." 

SBCOND  BDITION,  BBVISBD  AND  BNLARQBD, 

The  GOLDEN  BOUGH:  a  Study  in  Magic  and  Religion.    By  J.  G.  Frazer, 

D.O.L.  LL.D.  Lltt.D.    In  3  vols.  8vo.  2idt.  net. 
SPEAKKR.^**  Badlant  with  the  lights  that  make  an  ancient  darkness  Intelligible ;  and  It  will  probably  be  looked  back 
^ipco  tj  cor  suooeesors  as  one  of  the  few  really  significant  books  produced  In  the  ambitious  last  years  of  the  nineteenth 

••tury.* 


WILLIAM  SHAEESFEASE :  Poet,  Dramatist,  and  Man.    By  Hamilton  W. 

MABIB.    With  9  Photogravures  and  100  Illustrations  In  the  Text,  8vo,  21t.  net. 


A  NBW  ISSUB.  containing  all  the  ORIQINAL  BT0HINQ8. 

BORDER  EDITION  OF  THE  WAVERLET  NOVELS. 

Bdited  by  ANDBBW  LANQ.    In  24  Fortnightly  Volumes.    Orown  Svo,  tastefully  boimd  in  blue  cloth,  gilt,  6s.  each. 
▼oL  I.-'WAVEBIiBY.    With  12  Btchlngs.  VoL  II.-QUY  MANNEBING.    With  10  Btchings. 


WORKS   BY  THE   LATE   F.  W.   H.   MYERS. 


The  RENEWAL  of  YOUTH,  and  other  Poems. 

FottSvo,  7t.^. 
8UNT  PAUL.    Globe  Svo,  2#.  U. 

UPE  of  WORDSWORTH.    Crown  Svo.  U.  (^, ; 
leweA,  It. 


ESSAYS  CLASSICAL.    Globe  Svo,  6*. 
ESSAYS  MODERN.    Globe  Svo,  St. 
SCIENCE  and  a  FUTURE  LIFE,  and  other 

Bssays.    Globe  8vo,  5«. 


THE   GENTUBT  MAGAZINE. 


*rlee  1«.  id.     Annual  Snbseilptloa,  post  tree, 
The  FEBRUARY  KumJber  eontai$t^~- 
At  RBLPIMG  HAND  in  BAST  LONDON.    B7  Sir  Walter  : 

wltk  DrmwiB«8  bj  Joseph  Fenneil  nnd  L.  BaTcn-UiU. 
AT  THI&D  HAUD:    a  PsycholOKlcml  Inqnirj.     By  WlUism  Dean 


1W  FIOPLB  U  the  TOP  of  the  WORLD  -.  a  Tonr  through  Siberia  in 

a«fchofAndT((e.    Bj  Joans  Stadlias.    First  Paper. 
As  IM0LI8H  PA8BI0H  PLAY.    Bv  Bebecca  Hardlnff  Davis. 
Asi  naarons  eCher  Stories  and  Articles  of  General  Interest. 


MAGMILLAN'S   MAGAZINE. 

Priee  Is.    ContmUs  for  FRBRUART, 

1.  The  SINN  KB  and  the  PROBLBM.    By  Erie  Parker.    Chaps.  U-U. 

2.  FBBNCH  and  ENGLISH.    By  George  H.  Ely. 

3.  WHEN  the  BIG  FI8H  FEED. 

4.  RHODESIA  and  NORTHWARDS.    By  8.  C.  Nortls.  ^   ^ 

5.  The   MISSIONARY    in   CHINA    and    BLSEWHB&BL        By  H.  C. 

Maodowall. 

6.  SOMETHING  ABOUT  CHRISTV  HOSPITAL. 

7.  The  POUCB-OFFICER'S  TALE.    By  U.  Fielding. 

8.  VITAL  STATISTICS.    By  Benjamin  Taylor. 

9.  The  CARDINAL'S  AGENT.    ByOerald Brenan. 


MACMILLAN  4c  CO.,  Limited,  London. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9>^s.vilfib.2.iml 


o 


,NE    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES.      Engraved 

on  Wood.    B7  THOMAS  MOKIMO. 

Fwp.  Uo.    Prlntod  diroet  from  the  Orlfflnftl  Blocki  on  Huid-inado 
Pftper,  bound  in  artUUo  bonrds,  UU.  Oct.  net. 

FIFTY    B00K-PLATB8.     Engraved  on  Copper. 

Bj  THOMAS  MOaiMO. 

Unllonn  with  the  abore     Printed  direet  from  the  Original  Plates 

on  Uandr-made  Paper,  M«.  net. 

TUOMAt)  MO&IMO. 
The  De  la  More  PreM,  U,  High  Holbom.  London,  W.C. 

WANTED,  the  HEKALDIC  MANUSCKIPT 
(tae.  XVIU.)  of  PBDIOUBK  of  the  POMFHBr  FAMILY  on 
VeUom.  about  18  pagee.  wltb  PoU-Page  UliutraUon  of  JUng  Bdward  L 
It  is  mentioned  br  Hoiaoe  Walpole  in  his  Letters,  and  was  sold  some 
time  baeh  at  aaotton.  Good  price  paid  for  this  MS.— AMTIQUAIUAM, 
ia»  Olenarm  Bead,  Oapton,  M  B. 

MOW  &BAOT,  8B00ND  BDITIOM,  BBVISBO  and  AUOMBMTBO, 
price  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       Y  O  U  N  U. 
Bj  W.  T.  LYMN.  RA.  F.li.A.8. 
O.  STONBMAM,  S9,  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 


NEWSYENDORS'      BENEVOLENT 
PBOVIDBNT  IMSTITUTIOM. 
Pstron: 
The  Bight  Hon.  the  BABL  of  BOSBBB&Y,  K.Q. 


and 


The  Bight  Hon.  LOBO  OLBMBBK. 
Sir  W.  J.  BICHMOMO  OOTIOH. 
Bstabllshed  in  109  tor  granting  Pensions  and  Tempocary 
CO  nriaapals  or  assistanu  engaged  as  vendon  of  newspapera. 
A  Uonauon  of  Ten  Qoineas  consUtues  a  Viee-Pre^dent 
three  votes  for  life  at  aU  elections.    Baoh  donation  of  Three 
gires  a  vote  at  aU  eleeUons  for  life.     BTorj  Annnal  81 
snutled  to  one  vote  at  all  electiens  in  respect  of  eaeh  PIt* 


glTSS 

""'se 
U 


Kvery  man  and  woman  throoghoat  the  United  Kingdom, 
publisher,  wholesaler,  retailer,  employer  or  employed,  la  ei 
oecome  a  member  upon  pajment  of  Ave  Shillings  annuallj  or 
Ottineas  for  Life,  prorided  that  he  or  she  Is  engsged  in 


sewspapers. 

Ttae  Annuitanu  now  number  thlrty-atz,  the 
the  women  201.  per  annum  eaeh.    These  Pensii 


engsged  in  tae  sale  of 


B 


Second  Bditlon,  price  Fourpeaee. 

RIEF      LESSONS      in       ASTRONOMY. 

By  W.  T.  LIMN,  B.A.  F.B.A.S. 

huon  without  bsinf  in  aaj  way  dry 


Fund"  pruTldee  pansloas  for  one  man  W. 

remporary  Belief  is  glTcn,  not  only  to  Members,  but  to 
their  serw " "^ ■'-^  ' ' 


"  Oomiwrn  a  great  deal  of  laf  01 
or  techmoal."— KsnImA  Mmreun 


O.  STOMBMAM,  89,  WarwicK  Lane.  B.C. 


Mew  Bditlon,  price  Two  Shillings. 

tiELESTLAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    of 
/    Astronomy.    Ninth  BdiUoa.    With  S  Plaiss.    By  W.  T.  LYMK, 
BJL  F.a.A.S. 

"  Has.  we  are  glad  to  see,  reached  a  ninth  cditioo,  which  enables 
this  excellent  inuoduetion  to  the  facts  of  astroaomy  to  oe  brought  up 
to  aate."— &tMird«aa. 

lUWABD  BTAMFOHIi.  Maud  n,  Ooeaspur  Street,  Ohanng  Oross.  S.W. 

STIGKFHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Qua  for  sticking  in  Scraps,  Joining  Papers,  ftc  Od.  and  1<.  with 
strong,  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy^  Send  two  stamps  to  cover  postage 
for  a  sample  Bottle,  including  Brush.  Faetory.  Sugar  Loaf  Uourt, 
Itsartenhsil  street,  B.O.    Of  all  stauoners.    Sockptaast  Paste  sticks. 

WM.      (&      GEO.      LAW. 

GOFFKE— SUUAK— T£A. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W^C. 

8CHWBPPB8  WATBBS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  International 
BxhiMtion.  Paris,  1800. 

SGHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

ochweppesboda 

THESK  WATEKt)  (SoQa,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  9to.,kc.}  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  bad  the  patronage  of  Ko^alty, 
and  oontinae  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

I    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER :~ 
SGHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN  J 
In  SPL1T8,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS. 


reoeiTinc 
the  women  Ml.  per  annom  eaeh.    These  Pensions,  now  amc~ 
dOOl.  per  annum,  are  all  paid  from  the  diTidends  arislnK 
invested  capital  of  the  InsUtation. 

The  "Boyal  Tietoria  Pension  Fond"  was  established  In 
provides  pensions  of  301.  a  jear  each  for  fonr  widows  of 

The  -FimneU ^  

iromanaoi. 

Temporal.  _        .  . , 

or  their  serranu  who  may  be  recommended  for  aselstanee  by 
Laqniry  is  made  and  relief  awarded  in  aeoMdaaee  with  the 
saeh  ease.  W.  WILKIB  J0MB8,  ~ 

Memorial  UaU  BnUdinffs,  Varrlngdon  Street,  ao. 


BUUKSELLERS'  SEASIDE   HOLIDAY  HOME, 
49.  BOTAL  PABADB.  BASTBOUBMa 
The  above  Home  has  been  eotabUshed  for  the  oeaeSt  of  Bookaeilera. 
their  Assistants,  and  PamUies.    Suites  of  Booms,  or  siaitle  Badrooma. 
oan  be  had  furnished,  with  oookiag  and  sttenrtanee,  at  vary  niuisieii 

*" s  per  week. 

Home  is  replete  with  every  comfort,  and,  tadnf  the  son  trou. 


The 


enarminff   realdenoe   for   thoee  deal  ring  rest  and  a 
tortnlf  ht's  sojourn  at  this  most  lovely  ssaside  reeort. 

All  partienJars  and  forms  of  appUsatloa  can  be  had  of  the  Beumatj, 
Mr.  One.  LASLMBa,  at  the  London  Offlee.  a,  Paternoster  Bow,  MO. 


c 


'ULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

for  Searehee  and  Authe&tle  Infonaatfon  respeedoff 

ABMOBIAL   BBAJEtlMOS   AND  FAMILY   OHSCBMT8, 

with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artistic  Produottoa  of 

HBKALDIO  PAIBTINO  AND  BNOBATUIO. 

Book-Platee,  Seals,  Dies.  Slfnet  Binfs,  Livery  Buttons,  Crested  Hote- 

Paper,  Vlaitlaff  and  Invitation  Cards,  *e. 


OS,  PICOADILLT.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Park). 

Ij^IRSr  EDITIONS  of  MODERN  AUTHORS, 
includlnff  Dickens,  Thackeray,  Lever,  Alnsworth;  Books  illus- 
trated by  O.  and  H.  Unukstaank,  Phis.  Bowlandsoa.  Leech,  Ac.  The 
larfest  and  choicest  CoUeoUon  olIiBred  for  Hale  in  the  World.  Oaa- 
locoes  issued  and  sent  port  free  on  appUeauon.  Books  bouirht.— 
WALTBB  r.  SPBNCBB,  ij.  New  Oxford  Street.  London,  W.U. 

BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BuOKS  sup- 
pUed,  no  matter  oa  what  Subject.  AekaowleSf  ed  the  world  over 
as  th«  most  sapert  Soonanders  eatant.  PIsmc  •i«ie  wante.— haBJUIV 
Great  Bookshop,  14-16,  John  Bncht  Street,  Birmincham. 


ATHENJfiUM     PRESS.— JOHN     EDWARD 

I\.  FBANCIS,  Prtnter  of  the  Aihmmumi.  JMss  mmd  QMriss.  Ae..  U 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  BdTIMATBS  for  aU  kinds  of  BOOK.  NBWS. 
and  PBKIODICAL  PBINTINO.-U,  Bream's  Buildlnn.  Chanearr 
Lane,  B.C. 


'^rHE 

A     (The  J 


ScHWEPPES,  LTD.,  LONDON.  MaLYERN, 

OLASGOW.  LITBBPOUL,  BBISTOL,  SYDNBY,  and  MBLBOUBNB. 


AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER -PAD. 

I  LBaDBNUALL  PBBSS.  Ltd. ,  PuMlahen  « 
N.  liMaaahall  Street.  London,  KO.t 
coataiu  bairi«iss  paper,  over  which   U«   pea   slips  wit 
fre«Mom.    Sixpence  saeh.   6$,  per  dosea.  ralee  or  plain.   Mi 
Slse.  U.  per  dosen,  ruled  or  plsln. 

Authur»  should  note  that  The  lita-fleuhall  Tteei.  Lts..  < 
responsible  for  tbe  loss  of  MS8.  by  flra  or  olherwiaa.    "^     ' 


perfect 
rPMhel 


» B.  viL  Fn.  2, 190L]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


81 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  FBBRUARY  f,  1901, 


CONTENTS. -No.  102. 

BOTB8 :— OftTdftge  and  Pillar  Tax,  81~Doubtf  al  Paraagei 
in  Chaoeer,  8>-%ie  Abbot  of  Westminster*!  Plot.  laOV,  M 
— *ll.  *  Q.   in  FicUon— *'Oaba,"  86— Corpse  Suoerstilion 

—  Law's  'Kensington  Palace ' ~ Defoe's  Last  Male  Oe- 
gooodiuit  — **Oauolio" —Jew  and  Israelite  —  Living  in 
Tbree  Centuries,  84— Botanical  Ohristening,  87. 

QUBBlilS  s— Van  der  Meulen  and  tluchtenburg— Heraldic 

—  Veiiiiatius  and  bis  *  Ohristeid '  — Barbant  —  Dresden 
AsMD- **The  Bverlasting  Qospel,"  87  —  ** Oarterly " — 
Bafford  Flamiiy- *Oospel  of  Labour '—Albert  the  CKxid— 
Dr.  Johnson- Rhododendrons  and  Oleanders  -"Life  not 
all  beer  and  skittles  "—Funeral  Cards— Cromwell  Family— 
Haldane  Stewart—**  Humbuz  "— Morwood  —  **  Selfode  ^'— 
"Longs  of  Lcmdon "  —  **  Under  weigh"  —  Definition  of 
Gratitude— Bishop  of  London's  Funeral— Throgmorton,  89 

«  —Authors  Wanted,  90. 

BBPLUBS :— TroT  Weight  for  Bread— Poem  attributed  to 
Miltoo,  90  — version  of  Lines- Two  of  a  Name  in  One 
Fkmily- TrentaU  91— Sir  J.  B.  Warren— Carriages  v.  Pack- 
saddles  —  Flemish  Weavers  —  Braseaose,  Oxford— Uphill 
Zing— Downing  Street,  93— John  Bright  or  *  Craniord ' 
— '^*  lleaf  "  —  Medisval  Tithe  Bams  — Atwood  Family— 
KilUng  Pigs— Sir  J.  Douglas,  93— Title  of  Bsquire— "  To 
keeoh'^'  —  Herman  Architecture- **  Peaky-blinder,"  94— 
Cbaooer  Note— Scotch  Names  in  Froissart— Medallions  on 
Jag— "Ancemariole"— BtoQ  College  and  Ham  Hunting 
-Suffolk  Name  for  Ladybird,  9&— Boll  of  Guild  Merchanu 
— **  Five  o'clock  tea  "—Paschal  Moons— Moon  Lore— Date 
Wanted— Unclaimed  Poem  by  Ben  Jonson,  96— Surnames 
— Doke  of  Bolton's  Begiment,  98. 

NOTBS  ON  BOOKS  :-l)orbett's  *  Successors  of  Drake  '^ 
*Le  Dix-neuvidme  Siteie '— Gross's  *  Sources  and  Litera- 
ture of  Bnglisb  History/ 

Noticea  to  GorrespondenU. 


with  a  proviso  that  the  tax  should  be  higher 
if  the  eable  did  Dot  face  the  street 
In  the  year  1250  an  inquisition  was  made 


GAVELAGE  AND  PILLAR  TAX. 

On  a  previous  occasion  I  maintained  that 
the  A.-S.  gafol^  tribute,  was  a  secondary 
meaning  oi  gofol^  a  fork,  otherwise  a  pair  of 
princii>als  shaped  like  a  fork  or  an  inverted  V, 
which  in  primitive  houses  extended  from  the 
floor  to  the  ridge-tree,  the  change  in  gender 
indicating  a  change  in  meaning.*  I  have 
now  discovered  other  evidence  which,  I  hope, 
will  remove  any  doubt  that  may  still  exist  as 
to  tluLs  identity. 

In  the  year  1200  King  John  granted  a 
charter  to  the  burgesses  of  Scarborough 
declaring  that  they  should  have  all  the 
customs  and  liberties  which  the  citizens  of 
York  had.  The  charter  further  declares  that 
"for  every  house  in  Scarborough  whose  gable  is 
tamed  towards  the  street  they  shall  pay  to  us  4a{. 
yearly,  and  as  regards  the  houses  whose  sides  face 
the  street,  6rf.  yearly."! 

Here  then  we  have  a  tax  imposed  on  town 
houses  whose  gables  {gabula)  faced  the  street, 

•  9*  8.  v.  31,  2ia 

t  "  £t  ipai  db  imaquaque  domo  de  Escardeburg 
cnhiB  gabalnm  est  tomatum  adversus  viatn  nobis 
Mident  aingnlis  annis  qaataor  denarios,  et  de  illis 
doaoibos  quaram  latera  versa  sunt  versus  viam  sex 
deparioa  perannoip."— '  Rotoii  Chartarom' (Hardy), 
parti,  p.  40. 


A  jury  was  impanelled,  and  they  on  their 
<)aths  said 

'*that  the  Abbot  holds  eiffht  messuages  with  the 
appurtenances  which  the  King  claims  against  him 
as  his  demesne,  where  the  capital  messuage  of  the 
Abbot  is  situate,  and  he  renders  to  the  King  yearly 
in  the  name  of  gabelage  Qd,  The  said  eight  mes- 
BuageSj  while  they  were  separate,  yieldea  to  the 
King  in  gabelase  by  the  year  dtf.  10a.;  but  now,  as 
they  are  inoluaed  in  one  messuage,  they  ou^ht. 
according  to  the  custom  of  the  borough,  to  vield 
in  the  name  of  one  gabelage  {nomine  uniua  ChibtUaaii) 
6c{. ;  for  the  custom  of  the  borough  is  such,  that 
if  any  burgess  inclose  in  one  eight  messusf  es  or 
more  yielding  gablage  [«ic]  severally,  he  shall  yield 
one  gablage  only,  that  is  6a."* 

Let  it  be  noted  that  the  tax  is  here  called 
gabrdagium^  being  with  great  probability  de- 
rived from  gabulvm^  the  gable  or  forked  end 
of  a  house.  We  may  infer  from  the  charter 
of  1200  how  the  sum  of  Zs,  \0d,  charged  on  the 
eight  messuages  was  made  up.  The  houses  on 
seven  of  the  messuages  had  their  sides,  and 
not  their  gables,  turned  to  the  street,  and  so 
rendered  Qd,  each.  The  remaining  house  had 
its  gable  turned  to  the  street,  and  therefore 
rendered  Ad, 

It  is  obvious  that  the  abbot  had  been  try- 
ing to  evade  the  tax,  or  to  pay  less  than  his 
just  share  of  it.  He  was  doing  what  people 
did  a  long  time  afterwards,  when  thev  bailt 
up  windows  in  their  houses  to  evaae  the 
window  tax.  There  was  no  legal  reason  why 
a  man  should  not  have  had  only  one  window 
in  his  house,  in  order  to  pay  tax  on  that 
window  and  no  more.  And  there  was  no 
legal  reason  why  the  Abbot  of  Citeaux  should 
not  have  turnea  his  eight  messuages  into  one, 
and  by  doing  so  have  defeated  the  collectors 
of  the  revenue.  Of  course  I  am  not  con- 
cerned here  with  the  morality  of  the  thing. 
As  regards  the  charter  of  King  John,  it  looks 
as  if,  some  time  before  the  year  1200,  the 
burgesses  of  Scarborough  had  been  trying  to 
evade  the  payment  of  gavelage  by  making  it 
appear  that  if  they  built  their  houses  con- 
tiguously, or  turned  the  sides  of  the  houses 
to  the  street,  they  would  not  be  liable  to  pay 
this  tax.  One  of  the  objects  of  the  charter 
seems,  therefore,  to  have  been  to  defeat  this 
attempt,  and  to  assess  at  a  higher  rate  the 
persons  who  had  thus  been  trying  to  evade 
payment. 


*  *  Yorkshire  Inq.,'  Record  Series  (Yorkshire 
Arch.,  &a,  Association),  voL  i  p.  2L 


82 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       P*  s.  vn.  feb.  2, 1901. 


Now,  if  it  can  be  proved  that  the  gables  of 
houses  invariably,  or  even  usually,  raced  the 
street,  we  shall  know  for  certain  that 
gahvlagium  was  a  tax  on  gables.  Any  book 
on  English  domestic  architecture  will  produce 
evidence  that  in  old  towns  or  cities  the  gables 
faced  the  street.  The  document  known  as 
'  Fitz-Alwyne*s  Assize.'  dated  1189,  shows  that 
the  gables  of  London  nouses  faced  the  street."*^ 
Du  Cange  defines  gabtUum  as  (1)  "frons 
sedificii "  and  (2)  "  census,  tributum."  In  the 
fifteenth  century  the  *  Catholicon  Anglicum  * 
explains  "gavelle  of  a  howse"  by  the  word 
fronttspicium  —  t.c,  front  view.  And  the 
*  Ramsey  Chartulary '  of  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury shows  that  to  speak  of  houses  which  had 
doors  opening  on  the  street  was  tantamount 
to  speaking  of  dwelling-houses. t  As  the 
dooi*s  were  in  the  gable  ends,  it  is  easy  to  see 
that  taxing  doors  was  virtually  the  same 
thing  as  taxing  gables.  The  difierence  there- 
fore oet  ween  the  RomeLXi  ostiariumy  or  door 
tax,  and  the  later  gabtdagium,  or  gable  tax,  is 
only  nominal. 

Gavelage  appears  to  have  been  payable  in 
Scarborough  as  late  as  1697,  for  in  that  year 
De  la  Pryme  thus  describes  a  ceremony  which 
was  performed  there : — 

'*  The  town  is  a  corporation  town,  and  tho'  it  is 
very  poor  now  to  what  it  wa8  formerly,  yet  it  has  a 

who  is  commonly  some  poor  man,  they  haveing 

no  rich  ones  amonfl;8t  them.    About  two  days  before 

Michilmass  dav  the  sayd being  arrayeid  in  his 

gown  of  state,  he  mounts  upon  horseback,  and  has 
his  attendants  with  him,  and  the  macebear[er1 
carrying  the  mace  before  him,  with  two  fidlers  and 
a  base  viol.  Thus  marchins  in  state  (as  bi^g  as  the 
lord  mare  of  London),  all  along  the  shore  side,  they 
make  many  halts,  and  the  cryer  crys  thus  with  a 
Strang  sort  of  a  singing  voyce,  nigh  and  low,— 

Whayl  Whay!   Whay! 

Pay  your  gavelage.  ha ! 

Between  this  and  Michaelmas  day, 

Or  you  *11  be  fined,  I  say ! 
Then  the  fiddlers  begins  to  dance,  and  caper,  and 
plays,  fit  to  make  one  burst  with  laughter  tnat  sees 
and  hears  them.  Then  they  go  on  again,  and  crjrs 
as  before,  with  the  greatest  majesty  and  gravity 
immaginable,  none  of  this  comical  crew  being  seen 
as  much  as  to  smile  all  the  time,  when  as  spectators 
are  almost  burst-en  with  laughing. 

'*  This  is  the  true  origin  of  the  proverb,  for  this 
custom  of  gavelage  is  a  certain  tribute  that  every 

house  pays  to  the when  he  is  pleased  to  call  for 

it,  and  he  gives  not  above  one  day  warning,  and  may 
ctbll  for  it  when  he  pleases. "t 


*  Riley,  'Munimenta  Gildhallse  Lond.,*  p.  xxx. 

t  *'  Item  quaeiibet  domus,  habens  ostium  apertum 
versus  vicum,  tam  de  malmannis,  quam  de  cotman- 
nis,  et  operariis,  inveniret  unum  hominem  ad  love- 
bone,  sine  cibo  domini,  prseter  Ricardum  Pemdome," 
&c.    Cited  by  Vinogradoff,  *  Villainage,'  p.  460. 

X  *  ^iary  of  Abraham  De  la  Pryme  *  (Surtees  Soc), 
p.  126.  The  proverb  to  which  he  refers  is  the 
^*  Scarburg  Warning." 


We  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  the 
houses  in  Scarborough  which  paid  gavelage 
were  town  houses,  belonging  to  ourgesaes  and 
fishermen.  We  do  not  Know  their  sizes,  bat 
it  would  have  been  manifestly  unjust  to  tax 
a  small  house  at  the  same  rate  as  a  large 
house,  and  I  have  shown  that  in  ancient 
Wales  houses  were  valued  by  the  number  of 
**  forks  "  which  they  contained.*  But  I  am 
not  concerned  with  the  sizes  of  houses  now. 
I  am  merely  proving  that  gavelage  was  a  tax 
imposed  on  "gables." 

The  evidence  which  I  have  produced  is  of 
the  very  best  kind,  and  I  submit  that,  on  con- 
sidering that  evidence,  it  is  no  longer  possible 
to  maintain  that  the  A.-S.  gafolf  tribute,  is  a 
derivative  of  the  verb  to  give.  Some  of  the 
best  dictionaries,  however,  have  so  derived 
it,  without  hesitation.  So  far  as  I  know, 
Kluge  and  Lutz  are  the  only  modem  etymo- 
logists who  have  escaped  this  pitfall.  In 
their  'English  Etymology '  (Strassburg,  1898) 
they  content  themselves  with  mentioning 
the  Late  Latin,  Italian,  French,  and  Spanish 
forms  of  the  word,  and  refer  it  to  a  Teutonic 
substantive  gcUmla,  The  Latin  gabcUug^  a 
fork  or  gibbet,  is  of  course  a  cognate  form. 

S.  O.  Addy. 
(To  be  continued.) 


DOUBTFUL  PASSAGES  IN  CHAUCER. 

In  the  'Canterbury  Tales '  edited  by  Thomas 
Tyrwhitt  several  passages  are  given  up  in 
despair  as  inexplicable.  I  do  not  know 
whether  any  one  has  since  solved  thetu^  bat 
I  offer  such  explanation  as  occurs  to  ma 

In  'The  Miller's  Tale'  (3692)  we  are  told 
of  Absolon  that 

Under  his  tonge  a  tretoe  love  he  here. 
For  thereby  wend  he  to  ben  gracious, 
of  which  Tyrwhitt  declares  "what  this  can 
be  I  know  not."  This  I  conjectured  was  an 
error  of  transcription  or  typography,  and 
should  have  been  not  trewe  love,  but  a  tri  or 
triple  leaf  or  clover,  which  borne  under  the 
tongue  conferred  the  gift  of  eloquence  or 
persuasion.  Thus  Johann  Prsetorias  in  his 
'Riibenzahl '  writes  :— 

"  Here  the  third  Grace  or  Aglaia  happily  occurs, 
she  who  leads  thee  and  me  to  cheerful  confidence 
(zu  GemiU?ie)t  and  places  in  our  hands,  or  under  th» 
tongue,  the  third  leaflet  to  perfect  this  happily 
begun  and  merry  Clover-leaf." 

In  a  chap-book  tale  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury given  by  Mr.  John  Ashton  we  are  told 
how  a  dumb  woman  recovered  her  speech  by 
having  an  aspen-leaf  laid  under  her  tongue. 
But  unfortunately  three  leaves  were  applied^ 

♦  9^  S.  v.  2ia 


g»  &VIL  Feb.  %  1901.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


83 


which  caused  her  to  talk  in  triple  measure. 
The  three  leaves  here  indicate  the  trefoil. 

The  miller  also  asks  Absolon  why  he  has 
risen  so  early : — 

Why  rise  ye  so  rath?  ey  henedicite. 

What  eileth  you  ?  some  gay  girl,  God  it  wote, 

Hiath  brought  you  thua  upon  the  viretote, 

Tyrwhitt  declares  that  the  meaning  of  vire- 
tote  is  unknown.  But  virer  {tot\  Old  French, 
a  sea-term^  means  to  **  heave ''  or  "  put  about 
quickly";  m  short,  the  miller  means  a  sudden 
cnange  in  the  steady  habits  of  Absolon. 

In  L  3331  of  the  same  tale  we  are  told  that 
Absolon  at  times  would 

Playen  songes  on  a  small  ribiblet 
Thereto  he  sang  sometimes  a  loud  quinible. 

Tsrrwhitt  informs  us  that  what  &rtbMe  was 
is  not  known,  and  that  a  ^inible  is  ''  a  musi- 
cal instrument.''  The  ribtble  was,  however,  a 
Jews'harp— in  Italian  W6e^and  rt6t5a— which 
was  often  accompanied  by  the  voice,  not  with 
words,  but  in  guttural  humming,  as  I  myself 
have  often  done  when  a  boy.  As  a  quinible 
was  sun^  it  certainly  could  not  have  been  a 
musical  instrument.  It  was  probably  the 
quinario  or  verse  of  five  syllables,  or  a 
qnintetb 

In  '  The  Knighte's  Tale '  we  are  told  of  the 
horrors  of  the  temple  of  Mars  :— 

All  full  of  chirking  was  that  sory  place. 

Tyrwhitt  defines  cAtrKn^  as  chirping.  Here 
he  is  certainly  wrong.  Ghirrina  is  an  old 
English  word  for  chirping,  used  by  Herrick, 
but  chirking^  Anglo-Saxon  {vide  HaJliwell),  is 
the  mixed  sounds  of  animals,  such  as  howling 
or  roaring. 

In  the  'Prologue'  we  are  told  that  a  cook 
could  ix>wder  "  marchant  tart^  and  galingale" 
Tyrwhitt  declares  that  ne  cannot  tell  what 
aalinQole  was.  In  the  French  dictionary  of 
fioyer  ffcUingale  is  defined  as  "  Calangue  ou 
guangue."   It  refers  to  gcUanga,  arrowroot. 

Tyrwhitt  declares  that  he  cannot  explain 
the  expression  gat-toothedin  'Prologue,'  1. 470. 
He  hsd  evidently  never  heard  of  a  '*  goat- 
toothed  Irishman  "  in  reference  to  the  noted 
prominent  Celtic  teeth.  ^^Gaty  a  goat" 
(Nominale  MS.,  Halliwell). 

Tyrwhitt  explains  citole  rKniehte's  Tale,' 
1900)  as  " probably  a  kind  of  dulcimer."  But 
it  is  defined  by  Halliwell  as  a  kind  of  musical 
instrument  with  chords,  and  an  Anglo-Norman 
word.  It  was,  in  fact,  a  variety  of  the  guitar  or 
dtbem^  and  the  same  as  the  Italian  citkara. 
A  dulcwter  is  a  tambourine  or  tympanum. 

Tyrwhitt  defines  dreint  in  ^The  Miller's 
IMe'  as  "drenched."  But  it  is  clearly,  as 
the  context  proves,  the  Anglo-Saxon  for 
drowned,  as  shown  by  HalliwelL 


In  *The  Reve's  Tale,'  3929,  we  are  told  of 
the  miller  that 

By  his  belt  he  bore  a  long  pavcuie, 

which  Tyrwhitt  defines  as  "some  weapon 
of  offence."  But  the  pavade,  Old  French 
pavois,  was  a  large  shield,  and  not  a  weapon 
of  offence  at  all. 

Two  lines  further  on  we  are  told  that 
A  joly  popper  bare  he  in  his  pouche. 
This  popper,  according  to  Tyrwhitt,  was 
"probably  a  pistol"!  It  was  much  more 
probably  a  wine-flask,  like  the  Italian  poppa, 
as  it  is  called  "joly  and  was  carried  in  a 
pocket.  Popper  is,  however,  defined  by  Halli- 
well as  a  dagger.  In  justice  to  Tyrwhitt,  I 
may  mention  that  I  have  very  frequently 
seen  in  Italy  pocket-flasks,  made  of  glass  or 
majolica,  in  tne  form  of  pistols.  They  are 
invariably  antique,  often  of  the  sixteenth 
century.  They  must  have  been  made  in 
great  numbers,  since  thev  are  even  now 
extremely  common,  and  [  know  where  more 
than  one  can  be  bought. 

In  *The   Man  of  Lawe's  Prologue,'  4515, 
there  is  the  line 

Though  I  come  after  him  with  hawehake, 
of  which  Tyrwhitt  declares  that  "neither 
the  reading  nor  the  meaning  of  this  word  can 
be  determined."  Certainly  this  was  the 
hauberk  or  haubergeon — "  fief  de  hauberk,"  or 
knight's  feudal  service.  The  hauberk  was 
borne  by  a  squire  after  his  lord.  Hence 
haubuck,  a  mere  bearer  of  burdens,  a  lout. 

In  'The  Man  of  Lawe's  Tale,'  1573  [5173?], 
we  have : — 

In  the  castle  non  so  hardy  was 
That  any  tohile  dorste  therein  endure. 

While  evidently  means  time,  but  Tyrwhitt 
suggests  that  it  should  be  vnght. 
In  the  same,  1.  5202,  we  have 

Fy,  mannish,  fy  ;  o  nay  by  God  1  lie  I 

Fy,  fendliche  spirit  I 

According  to  Tyrwhitt,  moMnish  means 
"  thou  human  thing  !"  But  the  mannish  was 
a  goblin,  like  the  German  Mdnnjchen,  and  not 
human  at  all. 
In  *The  Frere's  Tale,'  6959,  the  sompnour 
Rode  forth  to  sompne  a  widowe,  an  olde  ribibe, 
of  which  Tyrwhitt  says  it  was  **probably 
some  shrill  musical  instrument."  The  word 
ribible  was,  as  noticed  above,  at  one  time 
applied  to  the  Jews'  harp,  and  ribibe  to  a 
kind  of  fiddle.  "Vitula,  a  rybybe  (Nomi- 
nale MS.)."  "  Vitula  was  often  inter- 
changed in  jest  with  vetula,  hence  the 
term  was  applied  to  an  old  woman  in 
Chaucer,  Skelton,  and  Ben  Jonson"  (Halli- 
well). I  conjecture  that  the  resemblance 
between  rit*ha^  rybybe,  ribible,  and  rtbecca  or 


84 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       19«>8.vilfbb.  2,1901. 


rebfw,  is  all  dne  to  the  fact  of  the  am  all 
original  violin*  which  was  round,  and  shappd 
like  a  Jews'  harp.  Hipkins  and  all  other 
leading  writers  on  the  subject  have  pointed 
out  the  greafc  confasion  or  interchange  of 
names  which  has  existed  regarding  musical 
insfcnimentJ?. 

In  'The  Clerke'ji  Tale,*  8412,  Tyrwhitt 
explains  "  gan  a  chert  to  make  "  as  to  "  affect 
a  manner. "  B  u  t  e  xac 1 1  y  i  t  si  gn  i  fies  to  aflsu  m  e 
a  Inok  or  expression  of  the  face^  as  in  Italian 
eera,  the  countenance. 

In  'The  March  an  te^s  Tale*  there  occurs  the 
Hue 

They  can  n  en  so  niuch  craft  on  Wad«'a  boto, 
Tyrwhitt  confesses  he  cannot  explain  the 
allusion.  Nor  can  I ;  but  Wade  was  a  great 
Yorkshire  giant,  who  built  the  Roman  road, 
probably  for  a  bote  or  messenger,  or  for 
mesHagea. 

In  '  The  Pardoner*si  Tale,'  1244  [%  we  have 
1  recke  never  whan  that  they  be  he  tied 
Though  that  their  souli  gon  a  bUk-twried. 

"I  rPally  cannot  guess  what  it  raeans," 
says  Tyrwhitt.  It  is  an  old  joke,  still  com- 
mon in  America,  from  going  to  a  funeral 
dressed  in  black.  "Though  their  souls  be 
damnefl."  Condemned  souls  appear  as  angels 
of  rlarkneRS,  the  saved  as  clad  in  light.  It  is 
iuch  a  common  negro-minstrel  joke  to  spea,k 
of  att-ending  negro  funerals  as  "going  a- 
black- burying,"  that  T  think  it  may  be  the 
variation  on  an  old  traditional  joke. 

In  the  same  tale*  12,411,  waferere§  may 
mean  **  sellers  of  wafers  or  cakc-*i^"  but  from 
the  context  it  appears  to  mean  "  wayfarers  " 
or  vagabonds. 

In  'The  Monke's  Tale,'  14,375,  we  have 
And  ahe  that  helmed  waa  in  atarke  ptourefi 
And  wan  by  fntx«  toune^  atrdnge  and  tourei 
Shal  on  hir  had  now  were  a  mfrtmite. 

What  vitremite  means  Tyrwhitt  cannot 
telL  Is  it  not  a  mitre  of  paper,  a  fooVs  cap, 
Latin  miidla  f  Mit^ra  in  ItAlian  is  "a  sheet 
of  paper  made  in  the  form  of  a  mitrr,  put  on 
the  head  of  a  malefactor  condemned  to  stand 
in  the  pillory,"  ViiremiU  probably  means 
in  full  a  peaked  paper  hat,  from  tf^fa,  a 
peak,  top,  or  summit,*'  diminutive  mterdfa^ 
thoui?h  a  word  may  be  said  for  the  derivation 
of  tntre  from  vetriuola,  a  conical  drinking 
glass,  like  a  fo^Fs  cap  reversed,  Chaucer  was 
familiar  with  Italian. 

In  *The  N^onne  s  Preeste's  Tale '  Tyrwhitt  !a 
much  puzzled  over  the  term  a  col- foxe^  but 
cannot  suggest  its  true  derivation.  Col  is 
simply  cunning,  as  in  the  Italian  coffiioTUtre^ 
to  deceive,  French  emonn^r.  Colle,  a  sham  or 
//a  3idnii0rlnterpretii  this  "  a  coal-black  fox," 


I  offer  these  as  conjectures,  and  shall  be 
glad  if  any  students  of  Chaucer  will  amend 
them,  Chakles  Godfrey  Leland. 

Florence, 

[It  is  unforttmat-e  that  Mh.  Lkijind  follows 
Tyrwhitt*B  conaectitive  aumberinir  of  the  different 
Tales,  aa  this  makes  it  difficult  i^  find  his  quota- 
tiojiA  in  Pbop.  Rkiat*s  edition  or  the  Aldine 
Chaticer,  where  the  linen  in  each  Tale  are  sepa- 
rately numbered.  The  Aldine  glossary  is  by  Dr. 
Richani  Morria, 

QitimMe  (^  MilleHs  Tate  *)  is  df^fined  by  Dr.  Morris 
fta  a  part  nunp  or  plaved  a  fifth  above  the  air. 

In  the  *  Prologue*  Pbof.  Skeat  aays  the  cook  wa» 
to 

Poudre-niarcfaant  tart  and  galingale. 
Dr.  Morris    erplatna   gf^iiigal?  aa    sweet  cypcnm, 
though  the  refereTice  should  be  to  voL  ii.  p.  13, 
L  3S1  f Bot  38), 

Mr.  LFT.ANO*a  explanation  of  a  dulcimer  (under 

*  Kfiighte's  Tale  *)  as  a  tambourine  is  nurely  wmn<r. 

Id  the  firat  quotation  from  'The  Reve's  Tale' 
Pbof,  Ski^at  reads 

By  his  belt  he  baar  a  \on^panade. 

The  Aldine  gloRsarv  defines  hawfhake.  ('Man  of 
Lftwe*fl  Prolopnie'j  as  *'  plain  fare  (literally  baked  or 
drred  hawpi  or  hedipe-bernpR),** 

For    WaHe'fl    boat     f ' Mart^hante's    Tale*)    see 

*  N,  &  Q.,'  9th  S.  i.  4fl8 ;  ii,  m,  2.5a] 


The  Abbot  or  Westminster's  Plot,  1399.— 
Only  a  few  week«  after  the  usurping  acoes- 
fiion  of  Henry  IV.  in  1399  a  formidable 
in  HU  r  recti  on  ensued,  sunport^  by  many 
influential  nnblemen,  and  onRinatinK  in  a 
conspiracy  de\daed  by  the  Abbot  of  We«t- 
niinRtnr.  The  prime  con apira tors  were  Sir 
John  Holand,  a  valiant  knight*  uterine 
brother  of  Richard  TT.  and  brother-in-law 
of  Henry  TT.»  who  bad  been  degraded  from 
the  title  of  Dute  of  Kxeter  to  that  of  Earl 
of  TTuntinjrdon  ;  Thomas  Hoi  and,  his  nephew, 
who  had  been  degraded  from  the  title  of 
Duke  of  Surrey  to  that  of  Earl  of  Kent ;  and 
Edward  Flantapfenet.  who  had  been  deirraded 
from  the  title  of  Duke  of  Au merle  to  that  of 
Earl  of  Rutland— 

AiiTfierle  that  wa«, 
But  that  ia  loat  for  l^einjc  Bichard^a  friend. 

Many  other  pernons  of  distinption  were,  in 
adth'tion,  leaRued  tosceth^r  in  order  to  restore 
the  deposed  Kinp  Richard  IT. 

The  plot,  according  to  the  hiafcoric  imafd- 
nation  of  Sbaksperp,  was  concocted  by  tb© 
Abbot  of  Westminster  and  the  Bishop  of 
Carlisle  (Thomas  Merkes),  to  whom  Auraerle 
iR  represented  as  saying  : — 

Yoo  holy  clonrympn-  i«  there  no  plot 
To  rid  th«  realm  of  this  pomicioun  blot? 

'  Richard  n.,' IV.  i. 

A  priest  named  Magdalen  or  Mawdelaine« 
'*wno  in  face,  size  and  sight,  and  limb* 
strongly  reaembled  Richard  II,,  was  inttraeted 


9*8.viLSkB.2,noi.)        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


85 


to  peraoDate  the  deposed  monarch,  and  was 
dmfted  up  in  royal  robes  and  escorted  by 
these  nobles.  The  primary  object  was  to 
seize  the  new  kin^  at  a  tournament  at 
Oxford,  l3ut  this  failed,  and  a  strong  body 
of  conspirators  and  their  retainers  marched 
to  London.  Thence  they  proceeded  to  Ciren- 
cester.   As  Froissart  says  :— 

"  They  came  to  a  stronpr  town  called  Soncestre, 
which  had  a  bailiff  attached  to  Kinjr  Henry  for  the 
guard  of  the  town  and  defence  of  the  adjacent 
part*," 

and  by  the  same  authority  the  bailiflF  is 
called  "a  valiant  and  prudent  man,  and 
much  attached  to  King  Henry."  He  collected 
all  the  forces  he  could  muster,  amounting  to 
some  two  thousand  men,  and  completely 
defeated  the  insurgents,  who  did  not  number 
more  than  three  hundred.  The  Earls  of 
Huntingdon*  and  Kent  were  slain,  with 
many  other  leaders  of  the  insurrection,  and 
their  heads  sent  as  a  present  to  Henry  IV. 
and  the  Londoners  "  in  two  panniers,  aa  fish 
is  carried,  by  a  varlet  on  horseback  "  ;  and  the 
heads  of  the  Earl  of  Salisbury  and  Lord  de 
Spencer  were  also  forwarded  to  the  same 
quarter.  To  this  gruesome  present  Shakspere 
refers  : — 

Northumberland.   The  next  news  is,  I  have  to 
London  sent 
The  heads  of  Salisbury.  Spencer,  Blunt  and  Kent. 
ShUer  Fitzwater. 

FUtwater,  My  lord,  I  have  from  Oxford  sent  to 
LcHidon 
The  heads  of  Brocas  and  Sir  Bennet  Seelv. 

*  Richard  n.,'V.v. 

We  read  in  Jewish  history  of  the  heads  of 
Ahab's  sons  being  laid  in  two  heaps  at  the  en- 
trance to  Jezreel  as  an  acceptable  pre„sent  to 
Jehu,  and  in  after  ages  of  the  head  of  John  the 
Baptist  having  been  presented  to  her  mother 
by  the  daughter  of  Herodias,  but  one  scarcelv 
expected  such  a  present  to  have  been  offered 
in  later  times  "to  rejoice  the  king  and  his 
Londoners,"  as  Froissart  observes.  The  date 
of  this  is  January,  1400. 

The  remains  of  the  younar  Earl  of  Kent 
were  reinterred  at  Mount  Grace  Priory,  in 
Yorkshire,  a  Carthusian  house  which  he  had 
founded,  having  been  removed  from  the 
Abbey  c^  Cirencester,  where  they  had  been 
buried  ;  but  the  exact  place  of  his  tomb  at 
Mount  Grace  is  unknown.  The  priory, 
founded  in  1397,  was  one  of  the  nine  Car- 
thusian houses  in  England,  and  remains 
one  of  the  roost  interesting  ruins  in  this 
country.    In  it  may  be  seen  the  remarkable 

•  Frow|i»rtj  in  asaertinfr  that  Sir  John  Holand, 
Eui  cif  HuntiDfrdon,  was  slain  at  Cirencester,  must 
h^TOog.  sjhe  was  beheaded  at  Fleshy  in  Essex, 


difference  existing  between  the  arrangements 
of  a  Cistercian  or  Benedictine  monastery  and 
of  a  Carthusian  priory. 

It  may  be  worth  noting  that  Aumerle,  who 
so  narrowly  escaped  from  the  meshes  of 
the  conspiracy  and  its  punishment,  sub- 
sequently became  Duke  of  York  ;  and  he  it 
was  who  said  to  his  cousin  Henry  V.,  on  the 
eve  of  the  battle  of  Agincourt : — 

My  lord,  most  humbly  on  my  knee  I  beg 
The  leading  of  the  vaward. 

*Henry  V.,'IV.  iii. 

He  fell  valiantly  upon  St.  Crispin's  Day, 
25  October,  1415,  one  of  the  very  few 
Englishmen  that  were  slain,  if  we  may 
believe  Shakspere  :— 

[Herald  pre^ent^  another  paper.] 
Edward  the  Duke  of  York,  the  Earl  of  Suffolk, 
Sir  Richard  Ketly,  Davy  Gam,  esquire  : 
None  else  of  name  ;  and  of  all  other  men 
But  five-and-twenty. 

'Henry  V.,' IV.  viii. 

As  to  the  prime  inventor  of  the  plot,  the 
Abbot  of  Westminster,  what  his  fate  was  I 
cannot  say,  but  most  probably  it  was  a  violent 
death.  Shaksp)ere  thus  indirectly  alludes  to 
it:— 

Percy.  The  grand  conspirator,  Abbot   of  West- 
minster, 
With  clofir  of  conscience  and  sour  melancholy 
Hath  yielded  up  his  body  to  the  grave. 

•  Richard  II.,' V.vi. 

Thus  did  the  Abbot's  plot  fail  in  effecting 
the  overthrow  of  King  Henry  17.,  and  result 
in  the  destruction  of  those  who  combined 
for  the  purpose.  Henry's  whole  reign  was 
disturbed  by  insurrections  and  conspiracies, 
and  never  were  the  words  of  Shakspera 
"  Uneasy  lies  the  head  that  wears  a  crown," 
applied  with  greater  truth  to  any  sovereign 
than  to  Henry  Bolingbroke. 

''John  Ptckford,  M.A. 

Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

*  N.  &  Q.'  IN  Fiction.— 

"  As  she  sipped  a  cup  of  tea  she  studied  the  room 
in  which  she  sate  and  found  it  as  distinsruinhed  and 
orifrinal  as  its  mistress.  There  was  a  Chippendale 
cabinet  and  a  Chippendale  bookcase  gleaming  with 
classics  in  English,  French,  and  German,  and  a  long 
set  of  NcffiH  and  QiiericM."—*  The  Mantle  of  Elijah,* 
by  Israel  Zangwill,  book  ii.  chap.  ix. 

J.  L.  Heelis. 

"  CABA."-The  *  H.E.D.'  notes  this  as  "U.S.," 
giving  a  citation  dated  1885.  The  word  occurs 
in  chap,  xxxiv.  of  Charlotte  Bronte's  *Villette' 
C1853):  "The  patterns  for  the  slipfjers.  the 
bell -ropes,  the  cabas  were  selected,  the  slides 
and  tassels  for  the  purses  chosen."  A  cabcL, 
in  Philadelphia,  used  to  mean  a  hand-bag  or 
satchel  carried  by  a  lady.    It  hsA  bQ«QL%\x<^- 


86 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9-»8.viLFKB.2,ifloL 


gested  that  the  word  is  a  malformation.  Some 
one  had  imported  an  invoice  of  cabas  from 
France,  and  sold  them  at  so  much  a  caba.  I 
cannot  vouch  for  this  personally,  but  it  seems 
not  unlikelv.  Richabd  H.  Thornton. 

Portland,  Oregon. 

Corpse  Superstition.— In  the  Republic  of 
Colombia  (S.A.)  dead  bodies  in  country 
places  are  frequently  left  lying  about,  tied  to 
Damboos,  in  front  of  the  cnurch  door,  await- 
ing the  open  parish  coffin  and  bearers  to 
carry  them  to  tne  cemetery.  Church  service 
is  not  performed  as  a  rule,  though  bells  are 
rung. 

It  is  considered  dangerous  for  infants  to  be 
brought  near  one  of  these  corpses,  the  body 
being  said  to  impart  its  own  chilliness  to  the 
child,  which  will  probably  pine  and  die, 
unless  bathed  in  decoctions  of  certain  herbs 
gathered  in  the  full  moon.  Delicate  persons 
as  well  as  children  are  supposed  to  be  in- 
fected by  coming  near  a  corpse ;  and  pregnant 
women  must  not  be  in  the  house  with  one. 
People,  when  they  wish  to  avoid  helping  at  a 
funeral,  excuse  themselves  by  remarking 
that  **  they  have  a  small  family  at  home,  and 
consequently  are  afraid  of  touching  a  corpse." 
Anybody  who  has  come  from  a  house  wnere 
a  death  has  lust  taken  place  will  on  no 
account  be  admitted  into  a  sick-room  nor 
allowed  to  handle  a  baby. 

In  Antioquia  the  moment  a  death  takes 

glace  the  body  is  removed  from  the  bed  and 
id  on  the  ground,  in  the  belief  that  should 
the  corpse  be  left  on  the  bed  the  soul  will 
not  go  to  heaven.  Ibaouj^. 

*  Kensington  Palace,'  by  E.  Law.— In 
this  useful  guide  there  is  a  misprint  on  p.  93. 
The  date  on  the  portrait  of  a  child  is  163^^ 
not  1664.  The  pictures  are  mostly  described 
from  the  point  of  view  of  the  spectator. 
But  this  principle  has  been  overlooked  in  one 
or  two  cases.  "Left"  is  wrong  in  Nos.  5 
and  98,  but  would  be  right  in  Nos.  67,  68, 
93.  97.  Probably  these  defects  will  not  be 
leit  in  the  next  edition.       E.  S.  Dodgson. 

The  Last  Male  Descendant  of  Daniel 
Defoe.— The  funeral  of  Mr.  James  William 
De  Foe,  the  last  descendant  in  the  male  line 
of  Daniel  Defoe,  the  author  of  'Robinson 
Crusoe,'  took  place  at  Bishop  Stortford 
cemetery  on  12  Jan.  The  difference  in  the 
spelling  of  the  name  is  explained  by  the 
family^  having  reverted  to  the  original  name 
De  Foe,  of  which  Defoe  is  merely  a  corruption. 
The  late  Mr.  De  Foe  was  the  great -great - 
great-^^randson  of  the  immortal  Daniel,  and 
was  eighty 'tyro  years  of  age  at  the  time  of 


his  death.    The  above  particulars  may  be 
worth  preserving  in  the  pages  of  *  N.  <fe  Q.' 
Frederick  T.  Hibgame. 
1,  Rodney  Place,  Clifton. 

"QAUCHo."~In  the  new  volume  of  the 
*  H.E.D.'  this  word  is  described  as  "  probably 
from  some  native  South  American  language." 
This  is  correct.  According  to  Lentzner 
C  Te-soro  de  Voces  Hispano-Americanas,'  1892X 
it  belongs  to  the  Araucanian  language  ot 
Chile.  Gachu  in  Araucanian  means  **  cama- 
rada,  amigo."  There  is,  I  believe,  only  one 
other  Araucanian  word  in  English,  ani]  that 
has  never  been  correctly  explained  in  any 
English  dictionary.  The  word  I  mean  is 
poncho^  which,  according  to  A.  Febres  ('  Dic- 
cionario  Araucano')  and  D.  Qranada  (*Vo- 
cabulario  Rioplatense '),  is  poncho  or  pontho 
in  the  original  Araucanian. 

Jas.  Platt,  Jun. 

Jew  and  Israeute. — An  eminent  friend 
of  mine  in  the  Education  Department  is 
anxious  to  induce  writers  upon  specifically 
Jewish  matters  to  adopt  some  fixity  of 
principle  in  respect  of  the  usage  of  the  words 
^Jew,^'  "Hebrew,"  and  "Israelite."  He 
contends  that  they  are  by  no  means  identical 
themselves  in  shades  of  meaning,  and  might 
easily  be  confined  to  the  particular  variation 
of  modes  of  thought  to  which  they  were 
originally  assigned.  He  would  like  to  use 
the  word  "  Jew^*  only  in  a  spiritual  sense  when 
discussing  purely  religious  phenomena.  I 
presume  Jewish  pnilosophv  would  be  included. 
That  is  well  enouph.  I  fail,  however,  to  see 
his  points  of  differentiation  as  well  as  he 
does  himself  with  regard  to  "  Hebrew  "  and 
"  Israelite. "  "  Hebrew  '*  he  desires  to  apply  to 
"  nationality,"  which  at  the  present  time  is 
but  a  figment— a  splendid  ngment  of  the 
Zionistic imagination — while  "Israelite"  is  to 
be  confined  to  the  idea  of  race.  Personally. 
I  detest  the  word  "  Israelite,"  and  never  shomd 
use  it  in  my  work.  It  always  makes  me 
imagine  that  my  people  may  become  the 
sport  of  parties  in  this  country. 

M.  L.  R.  Breslajl 

LrviNo  IN  Three  Centuries.— Instances  of 
this  cannot  be  so  numerous  that  reference  to 
them  in  '  N.  <&  O.'  would  demand  too  much 
space.  The  following  is  taken  from  the 
Qlasgow  Evening  Citizen  of  2  January  : — 

"Mrs.  McEwan,  who  resides  at  Bridgend,  In- 
verkip,  and  who  was  bom  near  the  Glenlean 
Powderworks,  between  Sandbank  and  GlendameL 
one  hundred  and  two  ^ears  ago^  was  in  her  usual 
health  yesterday,  and  is  now  hving  in  her  thinl 
century.  Mrs.  McEwan  had  several  visitOFS  yester- 
day, who  wished  her  a  happy  new  year,  bat  did 


9»kviLFtt2.M0L]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


87 


not  ftdd  *  ma^y  retuma  of  the  season.'  She  re^ldea 
mth  her  youngest  daughter,  Mrs.  ilcLean,  who, 
•Ithough  abc^ut  sixty-five  years  of  aae,  is  ao  outworker 
on  the  Ard^wati  estnte.  Mn^  McEwan  can  now 
reftd  without  the  aid  of  ipectacles,  the  uae  of  which 
abe  diacarded  about  t«n  years  aj?o»  She  h  rather 
dcftf,  but  Hm  all  her  other  faculties,  and  aE^igta  in 
thm  worli  of  the  house  while  her  daughter  is  ni  work. 
Her  hoalMtid,  who  died  when  over  eightv  years  of 
age,  waa  a  native  of  Olekidarnel^  and  at  the  time  of 
tbeir  marriage  and  till  his  death  was  employed  in 
the  powder- milla.  Mrs-  McEwan'*  grandmother 
was  one  hundred  and  three  years  of  age  when  she 
di«d,  And  her  Kreat-grand  mother  one  hand  red  and 
fiv©  Tear«.  Mrs,  McEwan  is  in  excellent  health, 
and  mm  bar  appearance  may  even  break  tho  latter 
record.  Her  family  J^hav^e]  resided  in  the  Glen  loan 
divtriGt  of  Ar^Uanire  for  the  past  five  hundred 


EOBEET  K  GaEDOTEE. 

2S^  X^ang^ude  Road,  Glasgow. 

[W«   fancy  instances   of    the    kind   are  fairly 

A  Botanical  CsRii^TENiHG.— The  January 
Dtiitiber  of  the  St  Mark's  Parisk  Ma^azine^  a 
monthly  record  of  the  church  thus  D&med  in 
Coborg  Eoad,  Carabcrwell,  containa  the  fol- 
lowing notice  of  a  baptisto  which  is  perhaps 
unicme  in  its  way :  **Dec.  3 :  Violet  Rose  May 
Ivy  Stocking."  *  May  **  is  a  popular  name  for 
the  bawtbom  ;  so  that  four  plant-names  have 
beea  given  to  this  sprig  of  humanity  with  an 
ill- matched  surname,  prevented  iL'^elf  from 
being  botanical  bv  the  final  sellable,  I  en- 
clo^  a  fragment  of  the  publication  containing 
tbe  notice.  F.  Adams, 


Wb  miut  reqaest  correspondenta  desiring  infor- 
iiiatioa  on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  miSx  their  names  and  addretsaea  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  an«were  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct. 

YaX  DIR    MeITLEK  A5B    HucBTElTBirBG.  — 

Can  any  of  your  readers  suggest  the  date  and 
Bubject  of  a  gallery  picture  aaid  to  be  by  Van 
der  Meolen^  neprenenting  the  siege  of  a  town 
fortifiefl  by  walla  and  ditches,  ana  apparently 
lying  not  far  from  the  seacoa^t?  Numerous 
cavalrip^  and  infantry  support  the  siege.  The 
toene  is  probably  Flemish,  Is  it  known  for 
wbom^  another  gallery  picture  representing 
1km  fliege  of  Namur  by  Huchtenburg  was 
paintern  Portraits  of  Williara  III.  and  Lord 
Church  ill  on  horaeback  appear  in  the  fore^ 
ground.  H. 

HfERAL.Dic. — The  assintanoe  of  your  readers 
is  aolicited   in   identifying   some   coats  of 
loimd  CHI   an    ancient    leather  cover 


in  the  vestry  of  Sweffling  Church,  SuSblk. 
The  difficulty  consists  in  the  tinctures  not 
t«ing  indicated  in  the  tooling  on  the  leather. 
Furtner^  the  coats  are  somewhat  common 
ones,  and,  diflferenced  by  tinctures,  are  borne 
bj^  several  families.  Still  the  combination  of 
five  coats  or  quarterings  may  enable  some 
of  your  readers  to  identify  the  family  to 
which  they  belong,  and  thus  assist  in  assign- 
ing an  approximate  date  to  the  leather  coven 
The  arms  may  be  those  of  a  priory  or  some 
eccleaiastic,  Sweffling  is  near  Saxmundbam, 
and  the  locality  may  assist  in  determining 
the  question.  1.  A  lion  rampant.  2.  A 
chevron  between  three  mullets.  3.  A  cross 
fleury.  4.  A  bend  dexter.  5.  Three  pikes 
impaling  the  same.  Each  of  these  on  a 
separate  shield.  1  and  2  are  repeated  on  the 
cover,  indicating  that  they  are  the  dominant 
arms.  J.  H,  Riyi^tt-Caenac* 

Schloa^  Wildeck,  Switzerland. 

Velmatius  and  his  *  Chiusteid/  —  Can 
any  reader  suggest  the  reason  why  this  work 
wag  placed  on  the  *  Index  Librorum  Prohibi- 
torum  '  in  the  year  1603?  The  poem,  a  extra- 
position of  about  eight  thousand  iinea  in  Latin 
hexameters,  is  one  of  the  precursors  of  '  Para- 
dise Lost.*  I  know  little  about  Velmatius, 
and  cannofc  tell  whether  my  edition  of  his 
work  (Venice;,  1538)  is  the  editio  princes  or 
not.  KicHAEO  H.  TnoEJiTON. 

Portland,  Oregon. 

[So  far  as  we  know,  yours  is  the  first  and  only 
edition.] 

Chaeles  Baebandt  (or  BarbantX  organist 
to  the  Bavarian  Embassy,  London,  in  1764. 
Is  anything  known  of  his  life  and  works 
beyond  what  is  to  be  found  in  *  D.N.  B.' and 
Gil  low's  *  Bibliographical  Dictionary  of  Eng- 
lish Catholics^?  S.  G.  Ouli>. 

The  Drespen  Ambn.— Will  any  one  oblige 
me  with  its  history?  S.  G.  Ould. 

*'The  EvERLASTiKa  Gospel,"— Where  can 
I  find  an  account  of  the  alleged  reception  of 
the  golden  plates  containing  the  '^  Everlasting 
Gospel  *'  by  the  monk  Cyril  from  an  angell 
The  va'^t  amount  of  literature  on  this  Gospel, 
in  connexion  with  the  life  of  John  of  Parma 
and  Joachim,  w^hich  is  available,  does  not  tell 
thest4)ry  of  CWril.  W.  A.  L. 

Hackeneack,  Sew  Jersey,  U.S. 

[Concerning  what  is  called  in  *Lg  Roman  de  ]« 
Rose*  "the  goapel  perdurable,"  othtrwiae  the 
**  Euanijeliiim  E  tern  urn  sive  Euongelium  ISpiritua 
Hancti,  it  may  be  worth  while  to  consult  bkeat'a 
•  Chauc€r»'  i.  447,  note  on  line  7102,  and  Southey** 
'  Book  of  the  Church,*  ehap.  xi  It  ia  not  pr^tonaed 
that  you  wiU  find  ther^  what  yon  n^ekj] 


88 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       p*8.vilf«b.2,i«oi. 


*'CARTERLY-"~Thi8  word  occurs  in  Prof. 
Raleigh's  'Milton/  p.  173:  "8ternhold  thrust 
gome  of  the  Pa&lms  of  Da.\nd  into  a  carterly 
inetre.''  I  suppose  this  is  a  ranved  use  of 
the  word  "  cartorly/*  defined  io  *  H.E.D/  as 
meauing  **  like  or  befitting  a  carter,  clownish, 
booriyhi  rude,  ill-bred,'*  the  last  quotation 
for  which,  datefl  1844,  ia  taken  from  Sir  E. 
Deriugs  works.  Can  any  of  your  readers 
give  a  quotation  for  the  word  between  1644 
and  19(X),  exclusive  of  its  appearance  in  the 
later  editions  of  Cotgrare  and  Florio  1 

A.  L.  Mayhew. 

Oxford. 

Bafford    Family     in     Somersetshire.— 

Bartholoooew  Safford,  Itector  of  Enmore  in 
1613,  had  three  sone  clergymen,  two  of  whom 
were  ejected,  viz.»  Thomas  from  Isfield  and 
Bartholomew  from  Bicknoller,  in  1662.  There 
were  two  James  Saffords  at  Bridgwater  in 
1658,  when  one  iasued  a  token.  Dr.  Jedid^ja 
Saffard  (of  Taunton)  took  his  degree  in 
physic  at  Utrecht,  and  published  a  work  on 
dysenterj;  at  Bristol  in  1689,  where  he  died 
1712,  leaving  six  children.  Of  these  Bartholo- 
mew, a  mercer  of  Christ  Church,  Bristol 
voted  in  1721,  and  Joseph,  apothecary,  in 
1734.  In  17&0  Safford  &  Son  appear  in  a 
d irecto ry  as  apo th ecaries.  I n  1 792  Joseph ,  son 
of  Joseph,  Gent.,  of  Bristol,  aged  twenty -one, 
matriculated  at  St  Edmund  s  Hall,  Oxford, 
There  was  a  Joseph  Safford,  surgeon  and 
coroner,  1807-1 1 ;  and  Thomas  JeflFery  SaflPord, 
a  dentist,  died  there  in  1811,  Any  infor- 
mation concerning  these,  and  whether  and 
how  related ;  or  Christopher  Safford,  who 
emigrated  to  Virginia  in  the  Treasurer  in 
1613;  Thomas  Safford,  who  went  to  New 
Ipswich  in  1638  ;  or  Joseph  and  Silas,  sons  of 
Joseph,  who  were  in  Plymouth,  Mass,,  in 
1700,  will  be  thankfully  received, 

J,  BuRnAM  Safford. 
48,  Groftvenor  Road,  S.VV. 

'The    Gospel    of    Labour'— Can    you 

kindly  tell  me  the  author  and  publisher 
of  *The  Gospel  of  Labour*  (a  description 
of  the  sculptures  of  Giotto's  Tower)? 

C.  A  B. 

Albert  the  Good.— The  obituary  notice 
of  the  Prince  Consort  which  appeared  in  the 
Athencsum  of  the  SL-it  of  December,  1861, 
contains  the  following :  **  What  the  word 
Duty  wa^i  to  Arthur  the  Great,  the  word 
Progi^esa  was  to  Albert  the  Good.**  Is  this 
the  first  instance  in  which  this  phrase,  after- 
wards adopted  by  Tennyson  in  his  dedication 

r%f  *Tha  TrTirllu  r^f*U^  Uiw.^  i  „. ^. 1  ? 


Ds.  Johnson.— Did  Dr.  Johnion  ever  write 
his  surname  Johnstone?  I  have  an  old  co^y 
of  the  works  of  Claud ian  in  Latin,  16mo,  in 
the  original  vellum  binding,  and  printed  at 
Cologne  in  1613.  On  the  top  of  the  title- 
page,  in  a  small,  upright,  cramped  hand,  is 
'' Samuel  Johnstone,  iiarket  Boa  worth,  1733," 
and  at  the  end  of  the  poems,  before  the 
annotations,  the  following  note  in  the  same 
writing,  via, : — 

''Cl  audi  an  aecoiii  to  posfiess  the  Ma^jes^  and 
purity  of  the  Au|?ustan  age  uniniemipled  by  th« 
execrahle  language  of  his  own  ;  in  hitn  Poetry  mAy 
be  said  to  have  re%ived— and  with  him  to  have  ogftin 
sunk  into  her  long  dormant  statft  of  wretchefdneaiil. — 
S,  Johns  tone,  Market  Bob  worth,  Jan.  19,  A,d.  1733.'* 

The  volume  has  also  other  autographs,  ^*E 
Libri**  Caroli  May"  and   "Jacob  Jefferson, 
Oxon.,  Queen's,  1743,"        Henhy  T.  WakE. 
Fritchley,  Derby. 

Rhododendrons  and  Oleandees,— 1  have 
a  very  early  edition  of  *  The  Christian  Vear,' 
In  the  poem  for  the  third  Sunday  in  Advent, 
to  the  Une 

Thoae  btoaaoma  red  aod  bright, 
there  is  appended  a  foot-note  :— 

"  Rhododendrons,  with  which  the  weatem  bank  of 
the  lake  [of  GaBleel  is  said  to  be  clot  had  down  to 
the  water's  edge*" 

I  see  that  in  an  edition  publijibed  in  1889  the 
word  **  rhododendrons  is  here  changed  to 
*' oleanders/'  When,  and  by  whom,  was  the 
alteration  mad  a  ana  is  it  justified  hy  facts  1 

W.  T.  Lykk, 

Black  heath. 

P'hc  forty -sixth  edition  (Parker,  13ij5J  m^e» 
'*  Rhodo*lendroDa  " ;  the  hundred  and  third  tParker, 
IS67)  substitutes  "  Oleanders/'] 

**LlPE    IS  NOT   ALL  BEER  AND   SEITTLIS."— 

Will  you  or  one  of  your  readers  kindly  inform 
me  what  author  first  used  this  raying  1 

Maeciarit  Jaceson. 

Englewood,  N.J. 

Funeral  Caeds,— What  is  the  date  of  the 
earliest  known  printed  funeral  card,  and 
what  books  contain  references  to  (juaint 
exatDples  with  peculiar  ponies  and  epitaphs 
printed  thereon  1  H,  J.  B. 

[We  have  an  impression  that  printed  notepaper 
anticipated  printed  cards,] 

Cromwell  Family.— Sir  Gregory  Cromwell, 
a  younger  son  of  Henry,  second  baron,  1592, 
married  Frances  GritHn,  of  the  Bmybrooke 
line.    Is  it  known  if  they  had  any  family  I 

A.  Hall. 

The   IIev.   James   Haldanb   Stewaet*— 


9»s.viLFo.2,woL]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


89 


Owen,  of  New  Lanark ;  another.  Mary, 
married  the  Rev.  James  flaldane  Stewart, 
of  Percy  Chapel,  London.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Stewart  signed  the  conveyance  of  David 
Dale's  Qiasgow  mansion  house  in  1823.  Any 
biosraphical  details  of  Mr.  Stewart  will  be 
welcome.  Were  any  children  born  of  the 
marriage?  William  Qeoroe  Black. 

Ramoyle,  Dowanhill  Gardens,  Glasgow. 

'*  HuMBUZ."— I  find  the  following  entries  in 
letters  from  a  resident  Fellow  of  Magdalene 
College,  Cam  bridge,  dated  respectively  16  July, 
1777,  and  26  July,  1778  :— 

**I  desire  she  will  remember  my  Lectures  in 
honemanship,  as  I  am  now  become  a  Hum  -  Buz 
af^ain  in  College  and  may  not  have  y*  pleasure  of 
giving  her  any  more  of  some  time." 

*'  Riding  alone  by  way  of  a  ride  with  a  College 
Hum-Buz  is  the  deuce  and  all— besides  there  are 
hardly  any  Collage  Hum-Buzzes  left  to  ride  with." 

Is  a  humbuz  an  individual  now  known  as 
an  **  old  fogev,"  and  among  the  lower  orders 
as  a  "*  codger  ?  and  did  the  word  change  long 
after  into  ""humbug,"  used  in  apparently  quite 
a  different  sense,  as  by  Dickens  m  *  Pickwick'? 
Albert  Hastshorns. 

IHumhuzz,  in  the  'H.E.D..'  is  applied  as  a  local 
naoM  to  a  cockchafer,  ana  also  characterizes  a 
species  of  bull-roarer.  It  does  not  seem  to  have 
moch  to  do  with  the  matter,  but  Ben  Jonson  has, 
in  *  Oberon,' 

"Buz"  quoth  the  bluefly, 

"  Hum  "  quoth  the  bee, 
which  at  least  brings  together  the  hum  and  buzz.] 

Mr.  Vkrnon  S.  Morwood.— Can  any  reader 
of  '  N.  &  Q.'  kindly  say  if  Mr.  Vernon  S.  Mor- 
wood, the  author  of  'Facts  and  Phases  of 
Animal  Life '  and  several  other  works,  is  still 
living  1  Those  who  ought  to  know  seem  to  be 
doabtful.  Hubert  Smith. 

Brooklynne,  Leamington  Spa. 

"  Selfodk."— The  following  passage  occurs 
in  a  list  of  tenants  and  their  holdings  at 
Hedgeley.  in  the  parish  of  £glingham  in 
Northumberland : — 

"  De  qualibet  selfode  iii  dietas  vel  iij  denarios, 
ezceptis  selfod  propriis  Joh'i  de  Somervile  in  terra 
sua  comorantibus,  et  si  extra  terram  suam  moram 
faciant,  facinnt  servicium  "  (1290-1). 

I  cannot  arrive  at  any  explanation  of  selfode, 

J.  T.  F. 

"The  lungs  or  London."— -I  wonder  if 
any  readers  of  ^N.  Je  (j.'  can  tell  us  for 
certain  who  invented  this  happy  phrase.  A 
correspondent  of  a  weekly  jounial  which 
devotes  much  of  its  space  to  metropolitan 
historical  matters  is  disposed  to  attribute 
the  same  to  the  great  Earl  of  Chatham,  the 
rsoord  of  whoee  melancholy  sojourn  at  "Wild- 


woods"  is  writ  large  upon  the  annals  of  Hamp- 
stead.  The  '  Eocyclopeedic  Dictionary '  quotes 
the  opinion  expressed  by  Brewer  that  the 
words  first  came  from  the  lips  of  Windham 
during  a  Parliamentary  debate  upon  the  sub- 
ject of  Hyde  Park  encroachments  in  the  year 
18^38.  Can  any  anterior  claim  to  the  existence 
of  the  term  be  established?  It  would  be 
curious  were  the  expression  traceable  to 
Ilampstead's  famous  recluse;  for,  of  all 
suburbs,  that  is  assuredly  the  most  favoured 
in  the  matter  of  breathing-spaces  whither 
the  half-stifled  citizen  may  mount  at  will  and 
be  tempted  to  **crow  like  chanticleer." 

Cecil  Clabkb. 

[In  8*»»  S.  ix.  93  J.  H.  W.  stotes  that  Mr.  Wind- 
ham assigned  its  origin  to  Lord  Chatham.] 

**  Under  weigh."  — This  vicious  locution 
has  alread  V  been  dealt  with  in  *  N.  <&  Q.,'  and 
need  not  be  discussed  again.  I  shall,  how- 
ever, be  obliged  to  any  reader  who  can  tell 
me  when  it  came  first  into  use.    F.  Adams. 

Definition  of  Gbatitude.— Who  firsts  and 
when,  defined  gratitude  as  an  expectation  of 
favours  to  come  7  Hay  ward  (*  Letters/  ii.  207) 
quotes  it  in  1869  as  an  Irishism.  W.  T. 

[Hazlitt,  in  his '  Wit  and  Humour,'  gives  it  to  Sir 
Robert  Walpole,  1674-1746.] 

The  Bishop  of  London's  Funeral.— I  send 
this  from  thePa^^  Mall  Gazette  (17  Januarv) : 
"The  Greek  Archimandrite  and  Dr.  Adier, 
the  Chief  Rabbi,  wearing  their  black  gowns 
and  gold  chains,  walked  in  together  and  took 
their  places  in  the  choir.''  Has  a  Jewish 
rabbi  ever  attended  an  English  bishop's 
funeral  before]  Also:  " Standingcrosier  in 
hand  in  the  Archiepiscopal  throne.  Dr.  Temple 
pronounced  the  Benediction."  This,  too  (same 
paper),  may  interest,  as  showing  the  present 
"  use  "  as  to  an  archbishop's  employment  of 
his  cross.  iBAGui. 

Fbancis  Throgmokton.— I  am  in  search  of 
particulars  concerning  a  person  of  this  name 
who  was  a  prisoner  in  Shrewsbury  in  1697-8. 
for  what  onence  I  am  unable  to  say,  but  I 
suspect  he  was  a  recusant.  In  one  of  his 
letters  from  the  prison  to  the  bailifEs  of  the 
town  he  writes  : — 

'*  If  your  worshipful  hearts  had  intelligence  how 
my  Laay  Throgniorton,  mv  half  sister,  her  Majestjr's 
delight,  and  my  lady  Sciamore,  mv  cousin  germain 
by  the  mother,  her  Majesty's  bedfellow,  came  unto 
roe  to  visit  me  in  the  Mareshalseye  when  1  was  there 
a  prisoner  and  had  by  strange  accident  lost  all  my 
lands,  in  disguised  attire  sitting  by  my  side  when  I 
was  in  habit  and  maintenance  of  a  gentleman,  and 
in  what  manner  they  wept  and  serried  to  see  my 
distressed  ruin  and  restrained  distress,  doubtless  it 
would  have  moved  you  onto  pity  and  comiMration." 


90 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       (g«»8.viLFKB.2,i90L 


The  only  Lady  Throgmorton  to  whom  the 
prisoner  could  have  referi-ed  must  have  been 
Elizabeth  Throgmorton,  afterwards  the  wife 
of  Sir  Walter  Ralegh,  daughter  of  Sir  Nicholas 
Throgmorton,  Knt,  by  Anne,  daughter  of  Sir 
Nicholas  Carew,  Knt.  Can  any  of  your 
readers  identify  the  Shrewsbury  prisoner 
by  the  above  clue?         William  Phillips. 

Shrewsbury. 

Authors  of  Quotations  Wanted.— 
And  Judgment  at  the  helm  was  set, 
But  Judgment  was  a  child  as  yet, 
And  lack-a-day !  was  all  unfit 
To  guide  the  boat  aright.  C.  C.  B. 

Cold  water  is  the  best  of  drinks, 

The  temperance  poet  siugs ; 
But  who  am  I  that  I  should  have 

The  very  best  of  things  ? 

The  prince  may  revel  at  the  pump. 

The  peer  enjoy  his  tea ; 
Whisky,  or  beer,  or  even  wine. 

Is  good  enough  for  me. 

C.  C.  B. 

Beneath  a  portrait  of  William  Cuming,  M.D., 
painted  by  Thomas  Beach,  engraved  by  William 


oharp: 


Rien  rechercher.— Rien  rejetter, 
Ne  se  plaindre  de  Personne. 

W.  G.  Boswell-Stone. 


ftirlits. 


TROY  WEIGHT  FOR  BREAD. 
(9"»  S.  vi.  468 ;  vu.  18.) 
The  "Proclamation  for  Waightes"  of 
1588,  quoted  by  Q.  V.,  is  of  great  interest, 
as  a  sequel  to  the  statute  of  Henry  VIII., 
1532,  ordering  that  butcher's  meat  shall  be 
sold  by  "  waight  called  Haver-du-pois."  This 
was  the  first  statute  recognition  of  it.  For 
more  than  a  thousand  years  the  Roman  libra, 
increased  to  16  oz.,  has  been  the  commercial 
weight  of  England,  the  basis  of  all  our 
measures,  yet  it  was  all  along  ignored  by  the 
statute,  oiuy  obtaining  scant  recognition  as  a 
weight  of  15  tower  or  troy  ounces  (which  it 
never  was).  However,  in  the  nineteenth 
century  it  gradually  acquired  statuteauthori  ty 
and  definition,  and  its  rival  the  troy  pound 
has  disappeared,  only  surviving  in  the  tables 
of  schoolbooks  and  almanacs,  along  with  a 
troy  apothecaries*  weight  which  was  abolished 
in  1864.  1  will  now  try  to  answer  Q.  V.'s 
questions  seriatim. 

1.  The  reason  for  bread  not  being  sold  by 
averdepois  weight  was  that  from  1266  down 
to  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
if  I  mistake  not,  it  was  subject  to  the 
provisions  of  51  Henry  III.,  the  Assize  of 
Bread,  which  fixed  a  sliding  scale  of  weight 


for  bread  according  to  the  price  of  the  quarter 
of    wheat,  the  weight  of  the  farthing  loaf 
being  stated  in  shillings  and  pence,  20d.  being 
the  equivalence  of  one  ounce  tower,  and  no 
change  being  made  when  tower  weight  ^ 
superseded    by  the  so-called    troy    weight 
This  sliding  scale,  or  rather  its  maximum, 
was  in  force  in   1617,  when  complaint  was 
made  that  bakers  could  not  keep  bread  up 
to    the    assize    weight   of    17  oz.    for    the 
pennv  loaf  (*  Liber  Albus  *).    Now  this  17  oz. 
weight  for  a  penny  was  the  equivalent  of  the 
6«.  lOd,  (82  dwt.=47„oz.  tower  weight)  fixed 
in    1266   as    the    minimum    weight   of   the 
farthing  loaf.    As  late  as  1811  bread  appears 
to  have  been  weighed  by  a  long  troy  ixjund 
of  7,600  grains,  the  peck  loaf  being  16  lb.  of 
this  weight=17lb.  6  oz.  averdepois  (Kelly  s 
*  Universal  Cambist '),    This  long  troy  pound 
appears  to  have  been  the  Amsterdam  troy 
pound  =  7,595  grains,  which  had  become  the 
Scottish-Dutch  pound,  and  probably  came  on 
from  Scotland  into  England.     In  1813  "the 
Lord  Mayor  ordered  the  price  of  bread  to 
rise  half  an  assize"  (*H.E.I).'),  that  is,  half  a 
grade  of  Henry  III.'s  sliding  scale  or  some 
modem  amenament  of   it,  For  in  1813  the 
quartern  or  quarter-peck  loaf  cost  1«.  6cL 

2.  Troy  weight  was  used  in  other  countries 
for  bread  as  for  other  goods,  both  the  old 
French  pound  (2  marcs  de  Troyes)  and  the 
Amsterdam  pound  above  mentioned  being 
true  troy  pounds.  But  the  so-called  troj 
pound  of  England  was  not  really  troy ;  it 
was  probably  the  Amsterdam  apothecaries 
pound =5,787  grains. 

3.  As  to  when  bread  became  aver  depots,  I 
shall  be  glad  of  exact  information.*  It  pro- 
bably became  amenable  to  the  common 
commercial  weight  when  it  ceased  to  be  under 
Henry  Ill.'s  assize  statute— perhaps  about 
the  same  time,  1824,  that  our  weights  and 
measures  were  subjected  to  judicious  reform, 
and  the  ancient  correlation  of  weights  and  of 
measures  of  capacity  was  re-estabushed  on  a 
sound  basis.  Edwakd  Nicholson. 

1,  Huskisson  Street,  Liverpool 


A  Poem  attributed  to  Milton  (9***  S.  vi. 
182,  238,  292).  —  Ancient  writers  have 
bequeathed  to  us  many  names  with  indefinite 
localities ;  ancient  place-names  existed  to 
which  legends  became  attached,  all  subiect 
to  successive  fluctuations.  So,  when  modem 
map-makers  extend  Helicon,  they  obliterate 
Parnassus ;  but  the  writer  of  the  epitaph 
now  under  discussion  describes  a  **  two-topt 
mount  divine,"  meaning  Parnassus  as  a  whole. 

[•  Seeofi<e,p.l&] 


'&YU.Bta.2.i90i.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


91 


A  reversioD  to  first  princi plea  will  perhaps 
jUBtiiy  the  author  by  showing  how  the 
tradition  of  Helicon  nrst  arose.  We  start 
with  iXifrtrm^  **  to  wind,'*  so  we  get  tAticos, 
'^aboaadiog  with  eddies/*  and  Helicon,  a 
winding  stream  like  the  Mseander ;  the  pre- 
emption follows  that  the  favoured  "  peak '^ 
wma^  ELamad  from  the  river,  not  vice  versd. 
Helicoo's  ** harmonious  stream'^  in  said  to 
have  furnished  the  source  of  two  fountains 
or  springs,  including  (among  others)  the 
Hippoorenes  with  its  own  separate  and  dis- 
Qoraknt  legend  connected  witli  Pegasus, 

To  analyze  too  closely  is  to  destroy  the 
ch&rm^  for  the  bouquet  evaporates. 

A.  Hall. 

Oow|>er,  amongst  others,  confounds  the 
mouBtaiti  with  the  spring  :— 

Not  Briadley  not  BHdg«w&ter  would  essay 
To  turn  tha  course  of  Helioon  that  way. 

•Table  TftlkJ 

UHton,  I  think,  only  mentions  Helicon  once 
in  bis  English  poetry,  and  there  he  h 
ambiguous  :-- 

Here  be  tears  of  perfect  raoao 
Wept  for  theo  in  Helicoii, 
^Epitaph  OD  tbe  Marchioness  of  Winchester.' 

One  would  have  expected  on  rather  than  m. 
Helioon  may  be  found  in  his  Latin  poetry, 
9^d  appears  to  be  a  mountain  there,  ^  As 
tMs  matter  has  been  discussed  before,  it  is 
possible  tb&t  t  am  saying  nothing  new. 

E.  Yaedlby. 

OOMFLETE  VeKSION  OF  IaNEB  W ANTED  (9^ 

S.  V.  396).^ The  Brituk  Bookmaker  for  March, 
18844  stated  that  the  "poem "  of  which  your 
correspondent  Mr,  R.  M,  Ross  desires  the  full 
text  was  from  the  pen  of  Mary  Packard 
EoOina^  and  was  published  in  an  American 
periodica).  Good  IlQumk^eping,  I  send  the 
Hues  as  reproduced  in  the  Bookmak^^  though 
with  ft  feeling  of  doubt  whether  the  full 
taxi  is  worth  all  the  space  it  demands  : — 

P^y,  what  did  T,  Buchanan  Read  ? 

And  what  did  E.  A.  Poe? 
What  volumes  dtd  Eli^ur  Wright! 

And  where  did  K  P.  Eoe? 

It  Thomaa  Hardy  nowadays  t 

la  Rider  Haggard  polo  T 
Is  Minot  Savace?  Oscar  Wilde  ? 

And  Edward  Everett  Hale? 

Waa  lAorenco  Sterne?  was  Heniiann  Griinm? 

Waa  Edward  Youur  ?  John  Gay  ? 
Jonatbais  Bwift  ?  aod  old  John  Bright  ? 

And  why  was  Thomaa  Gray ! 

Waa  John  Brown  ?  and  jb  J.  R.  Green  ? 

Chief  Juatiee  Taney  guito? 
la  William  Black?  B.  D.  Blackmore! 

Mark  Lemon  I  H.  JL  White! 


Was  Francia  Ba<:on  lean  in  streaks? 

John  Kutklinc  vealy  ?    Pray, 
Was  Hogg  mucn  given  to  the  pen  ? 

Are  Lamb'ft  Tales  sold  to-day  ? 

I>id  Mary  Manes  Dodge  juat  in  time? 

DidC.  a  Warner?    How? 
At  what  did  Andrew  Marvell  so? 

Does  Edward  Whymjier  now? 
What  ^odiea  did  Rose  Terry  Cooke? 

Or  Richard  Bojfle  beside  ? 
What  Kave  the  wioked  Thomaa  Pnino, 

And  made  Mark  Akenaide  ? 

Waa  Thomas  Tickell-ifth  at  aU? 

Did  Richard  Steele,  1  aakT 
Tell  me,  has  George  A*  Sala  auH? 

Did  William  Ware  a  mask  ? 

Does  Henry  Cabot  Lodge  at  home  ? 

John  Home  Tooke  what  and  when  ? 
la  Gordon  Uumming?    Has  G.  W. 
Cabled  hia  friends  again  ? 

Alex.  Lkeper. 
Trinity  College,  University  of  Melboome, 

Two  OF  A  Name  in  One  Family  (9**^  S, 
vli.  &).  —Tills  occurrence  is  aot  of  extreme 
rarity-  I  have  five  daughters  who  have  the 
same  fjame— viz.,  An gharad— their  full  naraea 
being  (1)  Ruby  Angharad  Gertru*K  (2)  Irene 
Clare  Angharad,  (3)  Phyllis  Gwenllian  An- 
gharad, (4)  Rosamund  Angharad  Kathleen, 
and  (5)  Sybil  Helen  Angharad  ;  all  being 
naoaed  after  a  literary  relative.  I  have  aeen 
it  stated  in  print  that  a  noted  sausage- maker 
in  the  Citv  has  three  eons  named  William 
the  first  William  the  eecond,  and  William 
the  third  ;  which  is  very  odd  if  true. 

Magisteate. 

TRKHfAL=** Month's  Mind"  f9^  S.  vi.  104 
195, 295, 414).—"  Trental  '*  was  a  common  word 
in  the  pre-Reformation  Bcottiah  Church.  In 
the  *  Accounts  of  the  Lord  High  Treasurer  of 
Scotland '  (published  by  authority  of  the 
Lords  Commiasioners  of  Her  Majeaty*a 
Treasury,  Edm.,  1877)  we  find,  amongst 
other  entries  of  a  similar  character,  the  fol- 
lowing : — 

A.D.  1495,  **Iiem  to  the  preiatifl  of  Striuehn  to 
say  a  irenUle  of  meaais  for  the  King,  xxs,*' 

*'  Item  Ithe  xi%'i  dftjf  of  Juoii)  to  preiatia  to  Bay 
three  trentsle  of  me«ais  for  the  King^  iij/i." 

"  Item  (tba  xviij  day  of  March)  to  the  preiJitiB  of 
Sanct  Nicholas  Ktrk  m  Abirdene,  to  B*y  a  t  rent  Ale 
of  rneasis  of  Saner t  Sebastiane  for  the  Kintf,  xxi».** 

*'  Item  that  samyn  day  (the  xxv  day  of  Aprile)  to 
%Schir  Andrti  to  g^r  say  a  trental©  of  mesaia  of  Sanct 

1497.  *'  Item  (the  3(3? vii  day  of  Auguflt)  giffen  to 
the  chanonnis  of  Uambuakyitneth  toaay  iiij  trentaha 
of  meaaia  for  the  King,  be  the  King^a  command, 
iiij^*6/^ 

The  price  of  a  trental  of  maeaes  was  twenty 
shillings ;  of  a  single  mass,  eightpence, 

Auohterarder* 


92 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9«»  s.  vil  Feb.  2.  iwi. 


Sir  John  Borlase  Warrek,  Bart.  (9'^  S- 
VI.  490;  viL  15).— He  had  no  elder  brothers 
(though  such  are  mentioned  in  the  *D.N.B.'X 
but  was  himaeU  the  eldest  san  aod  heir  of  John 
Borlase  Warren,  by  Bridget  (oot  "Anne,"  as 
in    the  *D.N,B'),    daughter    and  coheir    of 
Gervase   Kossell,    of   Radeliffe  -  upon  -  Trent, 
Notts,    and    was    born    2    Septembei-,    and 
baptized  5  October,  1763,  at  Stapleford,  in 
that  county.     His  parents  were  oiarried  (less 
than  a  year  before  his  birth)  14  November, 
17G2,  at  Risley,  co.  Derby.     Hia  father  died 
6  AuRUfit,  and  was  buried  10  August,  1763<  at 
Staple  ford,    aged    sixty -three.     His    mother 
marriefi  seconaly,  I  February,  1764,  at  Staple- 
ford,  the  Rev,  Graham  Chappell,  of  Oraton, 
Notts,  where  she  was  buried  May,  17S5,  aged 
fifty -eight.     The    grandfather  of    Sir    John 
wag   Borlaae  Warren,  M,P,  for  Nottingham 
1734-41,   who   was  baptized    25    September, 
107 7,  at  St.   MaryX   Nottingham,   and   was 
buried   15  May^  1747,  at  Stapleford,  having 
married  (Lie.  Vic. -Gen.,  26  November,  1698) 
Anne,  daughter  of  Sir  John   Harpur,  third 
baronet,  of  Caike  Abbey,  co,   Derby.    This 
lady,  as  *'  Mrs.  Warren,  the  wife  of  the  late 
Borlace  Warren,  Esq.,"  was  buried  at  Staple- 
ford  3  April,  1752,  and  her  Christian  name  of 
Anne  not  betn^    specitied^  she  is  confused 
with  her  ion's  wife,  Bridzet,  by  the  authorities 
mentioned  by  H,  C,     The  great-grandfather 
of  Sir  John  was  Arthur  Warren,  who  pur- 
chased the  Stapleford  estate  in  1674,  and  who 
was  sometime  Sheriff  of  Notts,     He  married 
26  June,  1376^  at  St.  Bartholomew's  tlie  Less, 
London,  Anne,  siater  and  coheir  of  Sir  John 
Borlase,    second    baronet,    and    wa.s    buried 
29  November,  1697,  at  Stapleford,  where  his 
widow   wa?i  subsequently  buried  21  August^ 
1703.     If  fl-  C  wants  further  particulars  of 
this  family  (of  which  I  am  a  descendant).  I 
might  be  ablo,  and  should  in   that  case  be 
very  happy,  to  supply  them.  G,  E.  C. 

Full  particulars  of  the  descent  of  the 
Borlaces  and  Warrens  will  be  found  in  a 
series  of  papers  by  W.  C  Borlase,  iL P.. 
contributed  to  the  Genealogist^  vols.  ii.  and 
iii,  (New  Series).  W.  D,  Pink. 

Low  too,  N«wtOD*le*  Willie  wa. 

Caeriaoes  V,  Pack-saddles  (9^  S.  vi.  503).— 
I  feel  sure  that  the  *'  bedd  "  that  belonged  to 
the  wain  wasi  tlie  body  which  is  still  called 
"  the    bed "   in    Herefordshire,    and     which 


cart-body,  too  heavily  laden  behind,  tilt  back 
with  load  and  driver,  while  the  wheels 
went  on. 

Though  the  pack-hon^e  was  the  best  mc^ns 
of  conveying  merchandise  over  bad  or  hilly 
roads,  or  by  bridle  paths,  the  two-wheeled 
wain  and  the  four- wheeled  waggon  were  the 
farmer's*  vehicle^a  even  on  the  worst  roatls. 
A  hundred  and  twenty  years  ago  Arthur 
Young,  travelling  in  the  North,  noted  three 
fanners'  vehicles  broken  down  on  eighteen 
miles  of  turnpike  road.       Thos*  BlashuX. 

Flemish  Weavers  {9"'  S.  v,  288,  362,  442) 
—I  am  told  tlmt  a  painting  repreaentine  John 
Kempe  appeared  in  the  Royal  Academy  a 
few  years  a^o.  I  shall  be  gla<i  to  know  if 
such  a  painting  or  any  portrait  of  him  exists ; 
and,  if  so,  where,        Frep.  HrrcHn^-KEMP. 

6,  Beechfield  Road,  Catford,  S.K 

Brasenose  College,  Oxford  (9^^  S.  vi.  50&). 
—This  house  was  founded  in  1509  by  William 
Smyth,  Bishop  of  Lincoln— whose  father. 
Robert,  lived  at  Widnes— and  Sir  Richard 
Sutton,  Knt,  of  that  ilk.  A  Matthew 
Smyth,  B.D.,  was  last  Principal  of  Brasenose 
Hall  (1510-12X  and  fii-st  Principal  of  the 
newly  erecterl  Ckillege  (1512-48).  RN.C. 
bears  the  arms  of  the  ae©  of  Lincoln,  between 
tha'je  of  Smyth  and  Sutton  respectively,  on 
her  escutcheon.  The  rare  phenomenon  of  a 
coat  of  arms  tripartite  pale  ways  is  also  found 
among  Oxford  colleges  at  Lincoln  and  G.C.C 

A.  R.  Batlit. 

St.  Mftrgarel's,  Malvern. 

For  the  origin  and  meaning  of  the  name, 
and  a  long  explanation  by  the  Editor,  see 
*  N.  ±  Q.;  1'^  S.  viii,  mi  ;  6^  S.  iv,  367,  542. 

EvEitARD  HOUG  0OL£HAN. 
71,  Brecknock  EoAd. 

The  Uphill  Zigzag  (9**"  S.  vi.  388,  493).— 
My  experience  leads  roe  to  a  pretty  confident 
belief  that  the  zigzag  line  taken  by  horses 
in  going  up  hill  arises  from  instinct,  not 
from  training.  1  have  had  many  conversa- 
tions on  the  matter  with  farm  servants  in 
this  neighbourhood  who  have  had  much  to 
do  with  liorses,  and  I  never  heard  of  a  case 
in  which  horse**  had  been  taught  to  do  this, 
Edwabd  Peack>ck, 

Duns  tan  Houbc,  Kirton-iu-Lind^y^ 

Downing   Street   (9'*»   S.    vi.   384).— The 


would  be    removable.      In    Normandy    the  '  following  extract  from  the  will  of  Sir  Qeor^e 
market  cart  of  the  small  cultivators  has  a|  Downing.  1083  (Muskett's  'Suffolk  Manonal 

uor\ai*o.V\1o  Krwiv    af\  f.liaf.  if  a  four  omnll  rviiru  ai*£i      1?.. .w.:i:^..  '\     ,^i\^i-^^   «-^  T^A.amam/v  Q.hv»a^4-  • 


separable  body,  so  that  if  a  few  small  pigs  are 

taken  to  market  it  can  be  lifted  off  and  set 

down  with    its   live  burden  for  inspection 

where  there' are  no  pens.    I  haye  seen  such  a 


Families  ),  relates  to  Downing  Street  :— 

**  Sir  George  Downing,  of  East  Hatley.  co.  Cam- 
bridge,  Knight  and  Baronet,  24  Au^t,  lOSSb— My 
V>od]}  to  be  vntemd  in  the  Vault  whioh  I  have  made 


9»&VILFnk8,imL] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


93 


the  Chftocel  at  Croydeo,  in  the  County  of 
Cambridge,  by  the  body  of  my  wife  Frances 
Downing.    To  my  soot  George iDownins,  Esq.,  and 

William  Downing House  in  or  near  King  Street, 

in  the  CitT  of  Westminater,  lately  called  mmpden 
Houae,  which  I  hold  by  lease  from  the  Crown,  and 
Peaoock  Court,  which  I  hold  of  the  Collegiate 
Chnrch  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster;  all  of  which 
are  now  demolished  and  rebuilt  or  rebuilding,  and 
called  Downing  Street,  to  Edward.  Viscount  Mor- 
peth, and  to  Sir  Henry  Pickering,  Baronet,  my  son- 
m-law,  in  tnut,  and  also  my  houses  in  St.  James's 

J.  H.  Rivett-Caenac. 

JoHH  Bbioht  oe  •Ceajiford'  (9**»  S.  vi. 
445).~Precisely  the  same  anecdote  is  recorded 
io  the  Kaleidoscope  (a  Liverpool  publication)  of 
8S  March,  1825,  bat  it  was  then  tacked  on  to 
I*  a  Liverpool  gentleman  long  deceased.''  It 
is  a  conceit  of  which  doubtless  both  Mrs. 
Gaskell  and  John  Bright  would  disavow  the 
aothorahip.  Richard  Lawson. 

Urmston. 

'•HiAF"  (9"»  S.  vi.  508).— The  •H.E.D.' 
settles  the  question.  There  one  finds  that 
^^heal"  means  '*  accustomed  pasture  ground 
(of  sheep)."  It  is  a  modification  of  he/t.  haft. 
"^Haft"  means  '*  settled  or  accustomed  pas- 
tare  ground."  A  connexion  is  indicated  with 
G.  he/ten^  to  fasten,  attach,  O.S.  htfiian^  to 
make  fast  When  a  mallet  is  hafted  it  is 
fitted  with  a  haft,  or  a  haft  is  fixed  in.  The 
Dictionary  gives  this  suggestion  as  associated 
with  tftie  derivation.  Ualliwell  says  "  heave  " 
means  ^'a  place  on  a  common  on  which  a 
particular  flock  of  sheep  feeds."  **  Eaves," 
which,  according  to  the  'E.D.D.'  has  the 
meaning  ^the  ed^  or  skirts  of  enclosed 
Rroond, '  though  similar  in  sound,  is  a  dif- 
ferent word,  and  conveys  neither  tne  idea  of 
fixity  nor  yet  association  with  common  land. 
Arthur  Mayall. 

"Heaf"  is  stated  in  the  *N.E.D.'  to  be  a 
modification  oikeft,  itself  a  form  of  haft,  *'  to 
establish  in  a  situation  or  place  of  residence, 
to  locate,  fix  ;  mec,  to  accustom  (sheep,  cattle) 
to  a  pasturage. '  This  word  is  of  uncertain 
origin,  possibly  connected  with  O.S.  heftian, 
to  make  fast  (  =  0.  he/ten,  to  fasten,  attach). 
In  February  we  shall  hope  to  see  whether 
Dr.  Wright's  *E.D.D.'  has  any  further  light 
on  the  point.  O.  O.  H. 

M»DiiBVAL  Tithe  Barns  (9"»  S.  vi.  309,  397, 
496).— There  is  a  fine  tithe  barn  at  Beartstye, 
a  farm  standing  on  the  high  ground  about 
Olid  way  between  Lindfiela  and  Ardingly, 
oa  Sussex.  It  is  built  of  sandstone,  and  roof^ 
with  Horsham  slata  The  external  dimensions 
are  67ft  6in.  by  a4ft.  6in.,  all  walls  2ft. 
thick.    There  are  four  hattreaaes  on    both 


north  and  south  sides,  with  a  projection  of 
2  ft  4  in.  and  2  ft.  wida  I  should  be  pleased 
to  forward  a  photograph  of  the  barn  if  it 
would  be  of  any  use.  W.  Sharp. 

Eythorne,  Kent. 

Atwood  Family  (9**^  S.  vi.  409, 510).— I  sus- 
pect that  by  Little  Bury  iti  meant  Littlebury, 
and  by  Stamford  Rivers,  Stanford  Rivers, 
a  parish  in  Essex  near  Chipping  Ongar. 
Many  years  ago,  when  a  bov,  tne  old  place 
was,  as  I  remember,  a  dilapiaated  farmhouse 
on  the  banks  of  the  little  river  Roding,  or 
Roothing,  which  'flows  into  the  Thames  at 
Barking  Creek.  There  were,  I  think,  some 
fragments  of  stained  glass  in  the  windows. 
John  Pickpord,  M.A. 

Newboume  Rectory,  WoodbridRe. 

KiLUNo  Pigs  in  the  Wane  op  the  Moon 
(fi^  S.  vi.  426,  616).— In  the  Republic  of 
Colombia  wood  for  building,  timbering 
mines,  making  fences,  &c.,  also  the  vines, 
the  stalks  of  which  are  used  for  binding  the 
latter,  are  always  cut  in  the  wane  of  the 
moon,  the  first  three  days  being  allowed  to 
pass  before  cutting.  Wood  cut  with  the  moon 
crescent  is  said  to  last  only  three  years, 
whereas  that  cut  while  it  is  in  the  wane  lasts 
seven,  the  trees  in  the  waxing  of  the  moon 
being  full  of  sap.  Trees  are  always  pruned 
in  the  wane  ;  also  human  hair  is  cut  at 
the  same  time  lest  it  should  fall  off. 

iBAOUi. 

For  many  instances  of  this  and  kindred 
superstitions  see  Frazer,  *  Golden  Bough,' 
second  edition,  ii.  155  seqa.         W.  Crooke. 

Langton  House,  Charlton  Kings. 

Sir  James  Douglas  (9"'  S.  vii.  28).— The 
good  Sir  James  of  Douglas  undoubtedly 
was  born  in  wedlock,  son  of  Sir  William 
"le  Hardi"  and  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
Alexander  the  Steward,  grandfather  of 
Walter  the  Steward,  who  married  Marjory, 
daughter  of  Robert  I.  of  Scotland,  and 
mother  of  Robert  II.,  her  only  child.  The 
name  of  Sir  James's  wife  is  unknown,  though 
he  left  a  legitimate  son  William,  who  suc- 
ceed him  ;  but  his  natural  son,  Archibald 
"  the  Grim,"  became  far  better  known  than 
William.  He  was  Lord  of  Galloway,  and  in 
1389,  although  illegitimate,  became  third 
Earl  of  Douglas  in  succession  to  Earl  James, 
who  fell  at  Otterburn.  It  is  not  clear  how 
he  was  allowed  to  assume  the  earldom.  To 
the  estates  he  succeeded  under  the  entail 
effected  upon  the  resignation  of  Hush 
Douglas  the  Dull  (a  priest)  in  1342.  His 
succession  was  disputed  b^  ^vc  ^WkK^XxsL 
Drummond,  huaband  ol  ^\t  i^m^^  i^\«t 


94 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       p^s-vilfkb.  2,1901. 


Tgabel,  but  Drummond's  claim  was  voided  by 
Parliament  in  Holy  rood,  April,  1389  (see 
*Act«  of  Parliament  of  Scotland/  i  557). 
Shortly  afterwards  Archibald  appears  as 
Earl  of  Douglas.  Eerbeet  Maxwell. 

Jaraea  de  Douglas — the  good  Sir  Janaes  of 
the  legend— was  the  eldest  son  of  Williara  de 
Duglas  (the  Hardy),  who  died  in  York  Castle 
in  1302,  by  his  first  wife,  a  daughter  of  Wil- 
liam de  Keth,  See  Sir  Robert  Douglas's 
*  Peerage  of  Scotland '  (ed.  Wood,  1813).  vol.  i. 
p.  420.  A.  li  Bayley. 

St.  Margaret's,  MalFcm* 

The  Title  of  Esquiek  (9*^  S,  vL  S87,  452, 
471  ;  viL  33).— I  think  we  may  well  ask  if  the 
ruling  received  through  Richmond  Herald  is 
more  authoritative  than  the  direct  official 
statement  of  Garter  King.  1  know  of  a  case 
in  which  Mr.  A.  C,  Fox-Davie&  hesitates  to 


prescription  is  embodied  in  the  following  note 
attached  to  Me,  Fox-Davies's  'Information 
Form  ':— 

"  The  following  are  Esquires^  and  should  b©  so 
deacribcd.  The  term  is  not  used  in  *  Armorial 
FamiUe«'esee|>t  in  such  cases :  The  aona  of  Peers  ; 
the  flona  of  Baronets ;  the  sons  of  Knights ;  the 
eldest  isons  of  the  younger  sons  of  Peera,  and  their 
eldest  soofl  in  i>eri>etuity  ;  the  eldest  aon  of  the 
elde^^t  eon  of  a  Knight^  and  hia  eldest  eon  in  per- 
petoity  ;  Com  pan  ions  of  the  Orders  of  Knighthood  j 
the  Kings  of  Arms  ^  the  Heralda  of  Arma  j  Officers 
of  the  Army  and  'Navy  of  the  rank  of  Captain  and 
Tip  wards;  bhetiffs  of  Counties,  for  life;  J,P.s  of 
Counties  whilst  in  Comminaion;  Berjeantfi-at'Law  i 
Queen's  Counsel ;  Serjeants -At-Arai a  ;  certain  prin- 
oij>al  Officers  in  the  Queen's  Household }  Doputy- 
Lieotenants  and  Comtnis^ioners  of  Lioutenanoy ; 
ComTniasioners  of  the  Court  of  Bankruptcy  ;  Masters 
of  tho  j^upreme  Court ;  those  whom  the  Qneen^  in 
aiiy  Crommisaioh  or  Warrant,  styles  Esquire  [and 
anjongat  these  are  Rc»yal  AcademiciflusJ,  and  any 
person  who,  in  virtue  of  hia  Office,  takos  precedence 
of  £l«q  aires. 

"  Genlleman  :  This  deacrtption  is  used  fhroughoul 
lAc  hook  in  its  ancient  and  strictly  legal  and  correct 
interpretation,  namely,  a  person  eotitied  to  bear 
arms  ;  and  it  occurs  in  every  such  instauce  wher« 
there  is  no  other  description.  ^ 

To  me  it  seems  unreasonable  that  one^a 
knighted  confectioner  or  coal-dealnr  should 
transmit  the  title  of  E^^quire  to  hi^  eldest  Hon 
in  perpetuity,  that  any  other  trade^iman  who 
19  a  magistrate  should  have  a  right  to  it,  and 
that  men  of  generations  of  professional  an- 
cestry—gentlemen who  may  be  Fellows  of 
their  Colleges  and  in  good  social  position- 
should  nob  be  allowed  to  have  any  right  to  the 
same  distinction.  There  is  no  uj^e  in  q  nibbling 
over  '^tlie  grand  old  name  of  geatleman  ^'— 


now  generally  used  in  jury  lists  to  deacribe 
retir^  shopkeepers.  If  Esquire  be  inferior 
to  Gentleman,  then  Gentleman  ought  to  in- 
clude it  J  if  it  be  superior,  then  it  ought  not 
to  be  conceded  to  people  who  may  be  social 
inferiors  of  those  to  whom  it  is  denied. 

St.  SwiraiK. 

Fitz-Glak\^l  asks,  "Is  the  word  Esquire 
a  real  title,  seeing  that  we  use  it  only  as  a 
f^uffixl"  I  find  from  old  family  papers  of 
James  I/s  time,  and  contemporaneous  records, 
that  Esquire  was  a  title,  used  as  an  afiix  to 
the  name.  An  old  memoir  of  Nicholas  Ferrar, 
of  Little  Giddine,  states  that  his  father,  who 
was  already  a  "Gentleman  *'  of  the  Yorkshire 
Farrar  family,  was  granted  in  1588  by  Queen 
Elizabeth,  for  rjpecial  service  rendered  to  her, 
a  special  coat,  of  arms  and  crest  and  the  title 
of  ^*  Enquire^"  MiCHAEL  FEfiRAB. 

Little  Giddingf  Ealing. 

"To  KEECH  "  (9^  S.  -vi.  40S  J  viL  18) —Both 
the  Northamptonshire  glossarists,  Miss  Baker 
and  Hernberg,  give  keeeh  as  meaning  to  dip 
or  ladle  out  water  or  other  liquids,  Misa  Baker 
also  adds  two  other  meanings :  (1)  "  The  fat 
of  a  slaughtered  beast  rolled  up  read^  for  the 
chandler^';  (2)  "a  large  oblong  or  triangular 
pasty,  made  at  Christ  mas,  of  raisins  and 
apples  chopped  together/"  I  have  myself 
known  the  word  as  applied  to  some  such  con- 
fection as  the  foregoing  ever  since  my  early 
childhood,  /ieeckes  were  always  made  tri- 
angular in  my  experience,  with  a  bird  shaped 
in  dough  sitting  on  the  ridge  in  the  centra 
Two  currants  were  stuck  on  to  form  the  bird's 
eyes.  If  either  of  these  fell  out  in  the  baking 
it  wa^  considered  very  unfortunate.  Keechis 
were  always  made  at  Christmas,  and  one  was 
allotted  to  each  of  the  ^young  children  of  the 
household,  I  still  retain  in  my  possession  a 
letter  written  to  me  when  I  was  away  at 
school  in  the  sixties  by  my  dear  departed 
motheri  in  which  she  rallies  me  on  being 
"  too  big  for  a  keech  '*  when  I  ahidl  return 
home  for  the  Christmas  holidays. 

John  T.  Page. 

Woat  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 

NoRMAK  AECHiTEcrrrHE  (9^^  S*  vii-  S9).— 
For  architectural  works  of  every  possible  kind 
consult  Mr.  Batsford,  94,  High  Holborn,  W.C. 
He  has  by  far  the  most  exhaustive  collection 
of  books  of  that  kind  in  England. 

Hahry  Hems. 

Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

"pBAKY-BUimER"  (0^  S.  vu,  28).— The 
**  larrikins,"  "  rufflers,"  or  "  hoodlums  "  of  the 
Midlands  are  thus  known  from  a  custom  they 
adopted  of  wearing  the  peak  of  their  cap 


»»8.vilpeb.2.i9oi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


95 


dr^wB  down  over  their  eyes  when  at  their 
neCarioiis  practices.  The  phrase  was  probably 
SQg^ted  by  the  game  of  "hood  roan -blind, 
fts  to  Scotland  the  person  who  hoodwinks 
another  in  *^  blind  man's  buff"  is  called  a 
"  billy-blinder  ":  "Ay,  weel  I  wot  that  'g  little 
ahort  of  a  billy-blinaer.  An  a'  tales  be  true, 
yours  is  na©  lie"  (*  Perils  of  Man,*  iii,  387). 
J*  Holder  MacMichael. 

Niyrm  out  a  Passage  in  Chaucer's  *Peo- 
LOOUR'  CSi^  8.  vi.  365,  434,  463  J  vii.  30).— I 
think  A.  C  W«  has  hardly  kept  pace  with  the 
incr^i^  of  knowledge  as  to  the  phonetics  of 
Anglo-Saxon  and  Middle  English.  There  m 
DO  proof  that,  in  Huch  a  collocation  of  letters 
M  TO«,  «ffe,  tff«,  the  g  had  any  guttural  sound 
at  all  approacntng  that  of  the  g  in  go  ;  and 
that  ia    no  donbt  why  Dr.    Sweet  in  his 

*  Anglo-Saxon  Primer/  now  marks  all  such  gfs 
with  «  dot  BBd  dii^ects  us  to  pronounce  them 
as  y.  And,  at  an  earl^^  date,  all  such  groups 
passed  into  a  mere  diphthong,  the  e  disap- 
pearing at  together,  if  not  final.  This  is  why 
Dr,  Sweet,  in  his  "^  History  of  English  fesounda/ 
pp.  293-4»  gives  as  Middle  English  forms 
aach  monosyllables  as  haii,  ^n<iil,  fayr,  faiitj 
nayi  (ioaplie^  in  the  verb  na^lm),  jmiin,  tail, 
payle,  6fuin,  This  was  early,  universal,  and 
in  all  dialects^  so  that  the  supposition  that 
auoh  a  word  as  rail  was  still  aissyllabic  in 
GbftQoer^s  time  is  quite  out  of  the  question. 
The  word  rati  was  already  si>elt  hrmgl  in  the 

*  Blickliog  Homilies,*  and  even  hrml^  as  in 
Thorpe *s  *  Diplomatarium,'  p,  170,1.  10,  A. D. 
ft24.  The  notion  about  Chancers  reading 
Anglo-Saxon  poems  with  inteUigence  is  quite 
new  to  meu  Wai*ter  W.  Skeat. 

Scottish  Names  in  Froissart  (9^''  S,  vii. 
88X — ^The  following  extract  may  interest 
G.  S.  C.  S.,  though  it  relates  not  to  a  Scottish, 
but  to  an  English  family.  It  is  taken  from  a 
letter  written  in  18S0  by  Robert  Surtees,  the 
hi'itoria.n  of  the  County  Palatine  of  Durham, 
to  Sir  Cuthbert  Sharp,  the  author  of  *  A 
Histor^r  of  Hartlepool  ':— 

**Ti«  »  stt^nRe  cniatake^  and  may  amuse  yon  in 
Frmooe,  thftt  Froissart  mentionv  n  Baron  Aveqgle, 
wiict,  iwverthelew,  evidently  had  the  full  u*e  of  his 
^sftMt  and  could  see  to  l&y  on  his  blows,  iLiid  tbis 
turiH  oat  to  bo  literally  the  Baron  of  Ocle^*~Se© 
0ml  Taylor's  'Life  of  Surtees,'  edited  for  the 
Sorteea  Socie^  by  the  Rev.   James  Raine*  1852, 

Edwaud  Peacjock. 

MEDJJJJOifS  oif  Juo  (9"^  S.  vi.  190).— I  find 
that  at  6^  B,  x.  348  a  plate  was  described 
bearing  the  same  heads  and  letters,  but  with 
the  addition  of  an  inscription  in  Dutch  refer- 
ting  to  tbe  prosperity  of  the  house  of  Orange. 


This  inscription  was  translated  at  p,  376,  but 
the  letters  were  left  unexplained.  With  this 
clue,  however,  one  can  guass  that  P-W.  and 
F,S.W.  are  the  initials  of  some  prince  and 
princess,  and  that  PVOR  represents  P.  V,  OR, 
I.e.,  Prince  of  Orange  Pa^sibly  D.  5  (or  on 
the  plate  D.V.)  may  mean  "fifth  Duke."  I 
shall  be  glad  if  any  oorrespoodent  can  help. 

W.  C.  B. 

**Ancb  mabiole"  in  a  Charter  (9*^  S.  viL 
47).— If  there  be  reason  to  believe  that  the 
phrase  denotes  geeae,  we  should  read  aum 
lauciM);  but  I  can  make  nothing  of  rnarioh 
in  this  connexion.  J.  T.  F, 

Durhortii. 

Eton  College  and  Eam  Hunting  (9^'^  S. 
vi.  230,  374).— I  have  just  com©  across  a  con- 
tempoi-ary  account  of  this  "  solemnity  "  in  the 
Noi-tmch  MtrciiTif  of  8  August^  1730  (reprint 
No.  43,  7  July,  1888),  from  which  it  appears 
that  the  custom  of  "blooding'*  a  novice 
obtained  in  thia  "  sport,"  as  well  as  in  those 
of  foxhunting,  otterhunting,  and  deerstalk- 
ing, 80  recently  quoted  in  '  N.  *k  Q,'  (ut^ 
'  Otter  Hunting  ;  Christening,^  e^*^  S.  vi*  270, 
334).  "  His  Royal  Highness  the  Duke"  was. 
presumably.  William  Augustus,  Duke  of 
Cumberland,  the  second  son  of  George  H., 
who  was  born  in  1721  :— 

"Eton,  Aueust  L— ^This  Day  was  celebrated  the 
Anniverearv  Diversion  of  bontinp  the  Ram  by  the 
Ktliolarg  :  What  made  the  Solemnity  more  rerniirk- 
able  WM  that  his  Hoyal  Highness  the  Dyke  was 
pl&as'd  to  honour  it  with  hi>]  Presence  ;  tho  Ciiptam 
of  the  iSchool  presented  him  with  a  Ram  Cluh,  with 
which  hig  Royal  Highness  struck  thu  tirst  t^troke. 
His  Royal  Higfhne^s  was  in  at  the  Death  of  the 
Kan  I  \  and  bis  Club  was  blood^'d,  accord  in  (?  to 
Cufitoiti.  There  was  after wartb  a  Speoeh  made  by 
the  Captain,  at  which  the  Duke  was  also  nrcsont  \ 
He  then  proceeded  to  see  the  Chitj)iktl,  t  nu  HaU, 
the  Library,  the  SSchooU  snd  the  Long  Chamber, 
and  it  was  generally  observed,  that  his  Royal  High- 
nesa  returned  to  U  indsor  very  well  pleased." 

G.  Yarrow  Baldock. 
South  Hackney. 

Suffolk  Name  for  Ladybird  (9^'  S,  v. 
48,  154,  274  ;  \i.  255,  417).— It  may  not  be 
genei'&lly  known  that  the  ladybird^  or  May 
bug,  is  named  after  the  Virgin  Mary*  Possibly 
it  i^  an  unconscious  survival  of  the  old 
mediffival  reverence  which  has  protected 
this  pretty  insect  from  the  cruel t>^  which 
children  but  too  often  love  to  exercise  over 
hel  pless  li  V  in  g  c  rea  tu  res.  **  Ladub  ird  [ ;  lady^ 
meaning  Our  Lady,  i.e.,  the  Virgin  Mary, 
4"  bird ;  ci  German  Marienkd/er^  lit.  Mary- 
beetle] "  (John  won 'a  *  Univ,  Cyclop,/  New 
York,  1895).  **  Ladybird.  The  name  ia  appa- 
Fen tly  a  modification  of  ladybug^  lady  referring 


96 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9«»  s.  vil  peb.  2. 1901. 


to  the  Virgin  Mary,  as  the  German  name 
Marienkdfer  suggests "  (Chambers's  *  En- 
cyclop./  1895).  We  have  all,  even  in  this 
wilderness  of  bricks  and  mortar,  heard  the 
children  sing,  or  chant  (to  the  music,  I  need 
scarcely  remark,  of  "  Boys  and  girls,  come  out 
to  play  "),  the  old  rime  as  quoted  by  several 
correspondents  of  *N.  &  Q.';  but  the  ladybird, 
like  tne  butterfly,  has  been  compelled  to 
retreat  as  the  modern  builder  marches  for- 
ward, and  so  it  is  we  may  now  have  to  go 
**a  little  way  out"  before  we  meet  with  tne 
insect  or  hear  the  familiar  rime.  That  the 
ladybird  has  been  sometimes  employed  as 
a    messenger  between   sweethearts    can    be 

E roved  by  reference  to  the  old  poets.  Says 
lay  :— 

This  lady-fly  1  take  from  off  the  grass. 
Whose  spotted  back  might  scarlet  red  surpass  ; 
Fly,  lady-bird,  north,  south,  or  east,  or  west, 
Fly  where  the  man  is  found  that  I  love  best. 

•The  Shepherd's  Week,  Thursday.' 

Heebert  B.  Clayton. 
39,  Renfrew  Road,  Lower  Kenuington  Lane. 

In  Cheshire  we  were  taught    to   say  as 
children  : — 

Ladybird,  ladybird,  fly  away  home ; 
Your  house  is  on  fire,  your  children  all  gone. 
All  but  one,  and  her  name  is  Ann, 
And  she  lies  under  the  frying-pan. 

Megan. 

Apropos  of  "  Ladybird,  ladybird,  fly  away 
home,"  the  child  rime  referred  to  in  my  reply 
at  the  last  reference,  I  may  mention  the 
parody  by  Charles  Lamb,  called  *  Another 
Version  of  the  Same,'  commencing  :— 
Lazy  bones,  lazy  bones,  wake  up  and  peep  ; 
The  cat 's  in  the  cupboard,  your  mother 's  asleep, 

the  original  MS.  of  which,  on  one  page  quarto, 
was  discovered  some  years  ago,  quite  acci- 
dentally, as  a  wrapping  for  a  lock  of  William 
Hazlitt's  hair.  W.  I.  R.  V. 

"  Cusha-cow  **  is  used  in  Selby    district ; 
**  Cushy-cow-lady  "  in  Lancaster  district. 
Lionel  Cress  well. 
Wood  Hall,  Calverley,  Yorks. 

The  Roll  of  Guild  Merchants  of 
Shrewsbury,  1231  (9^*^  S.  vi.  508).--I  pre 
Hume  Mr.  Sneyd  knows  what  is  said  as  to 
these  rolls  in  the  tenth  appendix  to  the 
Fifteenth  Report  of  the  Historical  MSS.  Com- 
mission (pp.  7-9).  Possibly  Shirley  printed 
1231  instead  of  1232.  O.  0.  TL 

*  Five  o'clock  tea**:  When  Introduced 
(9***  S.  vi.  446  ;  vii.  13).— Many  years  ago,  in 
1854,  at  my  first  curacy,  Oaklev  in  Bedford- 
shire, the  then  Duchess  of  Bedford,  who 
occasionally  resided  at  Oakley  House  in  the 


parish,  used  to  give  sometimes  four  or  five 
o'clock  teas,  to  which  I  was  invited,  and  I 
believe  that  was  not  the  earliest  date  of  their 
institution.  I  have  been  in  my  present  living 
twentv-eight  years,  and  have  never  even  seen 
a  nobleman  or  an  M.P.  here,  so  there  is  not 
much  chance  of  being  honoured  with  such 
invitations.  John  Pickford,  M.A. 

Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

Paschal  Moons  (9"»  S.  vii.  48).— Prof. 
Wurm's  table  of  Paschal  new  and  full 
moons  will  be  found  on  p.  407  of  Wieseler's 
*  Chronological  Synopsis  of  the  Four  Gospels,' 
Bell  &  Daldy,  1864.  C.  S.  Taylor. 

Banwell  Vicarage. 

Moon  Lore  (9"»  S.  vii.  27).— It  is  indeed 
news  that  the  C- shaped  crescent  moon  is 
waxing.  It  is  just  the  reverse.  I  have 
heard  the  formula, 

Luna  mendax, 
Orescens  decrescens, 
Decreecens  nrescens. 

Sherborne. 

Is  there  not  a  strange  reversal  in  the  note 
under  the  above  heading  ?  When  the  moon 
is  "  on  the  wax  "  she  is  in  the  west,  near  the 
sun  at  its  setting.  The  crescent  is  then  on 
the  sinister  side,  opening  dexter,  like  the 
loop  of  D  ;  when  "  on  the  wane  "  the  crescent 
is  dexter,  opening  sinister,  as  in  a  C— in  each 
case  the  precise  opposite  of  your  corre- 
spondent's reading. 

James  R.  Bramble,  F.S.A. 
[Others  write  to  the  same  effect.] 

Date  Wanted  (9"*  S.  vii.  27).  — Corpus 
Christi  Day  is  the  Thursday  after  Trinity 
Sunday,  and  is  therefore  the  sixtieth  day 
after  Easter  Sunday.  In  1543  Easter  fell  on 
25  March,  and  the  sixtieth  day  aft-er  it  was 
Thursday,  24  May,  or  Corpus  Christi  Day. 
The  morrow  after  it  was  Friday,  25  May. 
Walter  W.  Skeat. 

I  find  from  *The  Chronology  of  History,' 
by  Sir  Harris  Nicolas,  second  edition,  p.  65, 
that  Easter  Day  fell  on  25  March,  1543,  con- 
sequently Trinity  Sunday  would  fall  on 
20  May,  and  the  F^te  Dieu  (or  Corpus 
Domini  or  Corpus  Christi)  would  fall  on 
24  May.  A.  L.  Mayhew. 

[Other  replies  acknowledged.] 

An  Unclaimed  Poem  by  Ben  Jonbon  (9^ 
S.  iv.  491 ;  v.  34,  77,  230,  337,  477 ;  vi.  96,  430, 
477).— I  confess  I  was  not  aware  that  there 
were  two  Sir  Henry  Goodyers,  and  I  should 
be  obliged  to  Mr.  Simpson  if  he  would  kindly 
give  the  authority  from  which  he  derives  his 
very  precise  information.    I  refer  eepeciaUy 


g*8.yn.  FBB.2.igoi.i 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


97 


to  the  dates.  Before  writing,  I  consulted 
nnmerotis  books  of  reference,  including  the 
*D.N,Bm*  but  found  no  notice  of  either  of  the 
knights.  I  have,  however,  come  across  a  note 
in  the  new  edition  of  Walton's  *  Lives '  (Dent 
A  Co.X  vol.  i.  p.  72,  which  shows  clearly  the 
family  relationship,  but  furnishes  no  dates. 
Strange  to  say,  it  contains  the  same  epitaph 
we  have  been  discussing;,  but  it  is  quoted  from 
Weever's*  'Ancient  Funerall  Monuments* 
0631 X  and  applied  to  the  wrong  Sir  Henry. 
As  Mr.  Austin  Dobson  has  "  contributed  the 
supplementary  notes,"  and  we  all  know  how 
carefully  he  writes,  I  am  not  at  all  sorry  to 
find  myself  in  such  good  company.  A  distin- 
guished member  of  the  present  Government, 
sneaking  in  this  city  a  few  weeks  ago,  cited 
the  proverb, "  A  man  who  never  makes  a  mis- 
take will  never  make  anything";  but,  after 
this  correspondence,  I  think  there  will  be  no 
excuse  for  confounding  the  two  Goodyers  and 
attributing  the  epitaph,  written  on  the  uncle, 
to  the  nephew  ;  for  the  "  tetrastich ,"  as 
Camden  calls  it,  was  in  the  first  edition  of 
his  *Remaines'  (1606),  as  it  is  without  the 
asterisk  which  he  prefixed  to  the  portions 
added  to  the  second  (1614).  That  settles  the 
matter ;  and  Mr.  Simpson  is  irresistible  when 
he  says  that  the  lines  were  written  on  the 
first  Sir  Henry.  But  lam  not  at  all  inclined 
to  accept  his  somewhat  pontifical  declaration 
when  he  denies  that  they  are  by  Jonson. 
They  are,  at  the  least,  quite  as  good  as  some 
of  the  occasional  pieces  printed  in  the  folio  of 
1616.  and  the  fourth,  which  wo  are  informed 
decasyllabic,"  admirably  sums  up,  in  well 


choeen  epithets,  the  character  of  a  man  whom 
it  must  have  been  an  honour  to  know.  But 
Ms.  Simpson  says  that  the  epitaph  *'does  not 
even  refer  to  Jonson's  friend,**  for  which  as- 
sertion he  furnishes  no  evidence  whatever, 
the  very  thing  we  want  in  'N.  &  Q* 

Now  I  consider  it  extremely  probable  that 
the  poet  was  acquainted  with  Sir  Henry  Gkiod- 
yer  the  elder.  Camden's  friends  were  Jonson's 
friends;  for  the  master  was  justly  proud  of 
his  distinguished  pupil,  and  introduced  him 
everywhere  to  those  whom  he  loved  and 
honoured  ;  and  they  were  many.  It  is  quite 
clear  from  the  old  historian's  lan(;uage  that 
"Sir  Henry  (5oodyer  of  Poles  worth,  a  knight 
m^roorablp  for  his  vertues,"  was  one  of  these 
friends.  If  in  nothinar  else,  they  shared  in 
their  sympathy  with  Mary,  Queen  of  Scots  ; 
for  Camden,  if  not  a  partisan,  was  certainly 
a  firm  believer  in  the  innocence  of  that  most 
lovely  and  unhappy  lady,  whoso  story  it  is  a 


*  WesvOT^B  name  is  mentioned  in  Epigram  xviii. 
Bm  braoflelf  was  an  epigrammatist  of  note.    See 


sorrow  to  read.  Why  should  not  Ben  Jonson 
have  known  and  loved  this  good  knight,  and 
been  the  "affectionate  friend  of  his  (who) 
framed  this  tetrastich,"  said,  in  a  borrowed 
epithet,  to  be  "  crude,"  but  which  is  "  short, 
and  sufficient,"  and  full  of  tender  feeling? 
Though  young,  ho  was  a  married  man,  and 
his  great  abilities  were  not  unknown.  In  the 
year  following  the  uncle's  death,  if  Mr. 
Simpson's  dates  be  correct,  the  great  comedy 
'Every  Man  in  his  Humour  *  was  acted,  and 
what  the  author  must  have  been  for  years 
before  he  could  produce  such  a  masterpiece 
any  one  can  infer.  The  beautiful  epigram 
(xxii.)  on  his  first  daughter,  whose  name  was 
Mary,  must  have  been  written  in  his  early 
youth,  of  which  there  is  plain  proof  in  the 
lines,  which  are  **  octosyllabic."  I  firmly 
believe  that  Jonson  was,  at  that  time, 
capable  of  composing  even  the  epigrams 
(Ixxxv.-vi.)  on  Sir  Henry  Goodyer,  first 
published  in  1616,  in  which  year  he  became 
Poet  Laureate  ;  but  when  they  were  written 
is  another  matter  that  cannot  now  be  dis- 
cussed. What  is  most  remarkable  is  the 
almost  perfect  resemblance  of  character  in 
these  two  worthy  knights,  whom  T  honour 
for  their  kindness  to  the  men  of  letters  of 
their  times  From  this  cause,  and  from  their 
bearing  the  same  names,  has  arisen  the  con- 
fusion. 

I  cannot  help  thinking  of  Becky  Sharp 
when  Mr.  Simpson  thrusts  Webster's  'Dic- 
tionary '  into  my  face  and  bids  me  look  for 
the  meaning  of  the  word  "spill."  Now  he 
must  not  blow  hot  and  cold.  This  word 
occurs  in  the  poem,  a  part  of  which  he  quoted 
to  show  that  Giflord  was  no  judge  of  lyrical 
poetry,  and  that  Ben  Jonson,  on  this  occasion, 
wrote  balderdash.  But  since  T  gave  an  ex- 
tract from  Mr.  Swinburne's  *  Study '  he  has 
apparently  modified  his  opinion,  and  dis- 
covered, so  to  speak,  that  "  she,  who  was  an 
ugly  old  hag  at  nijfht,  rose  a  beautiful  maid 
in  the  morning."  The  change  is  all  the  more 
astonishing  when  we  learn  that  he  is  familiar 
with  the  book,  and  has  "always"  been  dis- 
satisfied with  the  phraseology  of  one  of  the 
sentences  quoted.  That  does  not  concern  me. 
The  illustrious  writer  is  still  among  us,  and 
would,  if  addressed,  be  willing,  I  am  sure,  to 
disentanjfle  the  "knot "which  has  troubled 
Mr.  Simpson  all  these  long  years. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  use  of  the 
word  "spill"  is  the  great  flaw  in  the  poem 
mentioned.  It  is  equivocal  in  meaning,  and, 
for  that  reason,  should  have  been  avoided. 
Before  commenting  on  it  in  my  last  note,  I 
consulted  the  sixth  edition  of  Dr.  Johnson's 
•  Dictionary,'  1786,  in  two  mighty  volumes^ 


98 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9«»s.vilpeb.  2,1901. 


which  Miss  Sharp  could  scarcely  have  lifted 
(her  *  Dixonary '  was  an  abridgment  of  this), 
aad  found  the  word  with  its  various  signi- 
fications, supported  by  suitable  quotationa, 
among  which  are  the  very  linea  raentioned. 
Let  Eten  Jonson  himself  be  the  Court  of  Ap- 
peal In  *  Underwoods'  there  is  *  An  Epigram 
to  the  Household/  in  which  the  old  bard 
complains  that  the  sack  granted  hira  by  the 
ting  had  not  been  forwarded.  The  twelfth 
line  runs  as  follows  :— 

*Twere  better  apiii^  a,  butt,  than  spill  hh  mum. 
With  an  interesting  note  from '  Anonymiana, 
London,  1809,  I  conclude.    The  writer  says  : 

"  There  is  an  hexameter  vors*  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment: *Husl>and»»  love  your  wivea,  and  bo  not 
bitter  agaiuBt  them '  (Col,  liL  19).  But  this  does 
not  run  so  well  aa  the  following:— 
BenjamiUt  Immortail  Jonson,  most  highly  renowned. 
This  though  ie  not  accidentali  but  was  made  on 
puriio&o." 

The  book  was  written  by  Dr,  Samuel  Pegge- 
I  may  add  that  I  have  seen  Dr,  Jeaaopp's 
little  book  on  Dr.  Donne,  but  have  been 
unable  to  consult  Mr.  E,  Gmse'a  more  com- 
plete history  of  that  patriarch  and  poet 

John  T.  Ct/RRy. 
iiverpooL 

SuTtNAMBB  {9^^  S.  vii.  28).-  If  thi«  guestion 
had  been  le^s  indefinite,  a  more  definite  reply 
would  have  been  poii.sjble»  Surnames  grew 
out  of  descriptive  appellations,  and  the  date 
at  which  they  orifcinated  varied,  according  to 
the  locality  and  the  person's  rank  in  life.  In 
the  South  we  first  find  them  at  the  bef^inning 
of  the  twelfth  century.  In  the  Northern 
counties  they  were  not  universal  at  the  end 
of  the  fourteenth  ;  and  in  remote  parts  of 
Wales,  in  the  mining  dbtricts,  and  in  the 
slums  of  Glasgow  they  are  still  unknown. 
They  were  first  used  by  the  barons  and 
franklins,  then  by  the  tradesmen  and  artisans, 
and  lastly  by  the  labourers.  Nor  is  it  always 
easy  to  determine  whether  a  name  has  become 
a  surname.  If  John  Wilson's  son  is  callod 
Johnson,  and  not  Wilson,  then  Wilson  is  still 
a  description,  and  not  a  surname. 

Isaac  Taylor. 

Duke  of  Boltojw's  Regimen^t  (9^"*  8.  vi.  508 ; 
vii.  52).  —  Accorfling  to  Air,  Dalton's  'English 
Army^  Lists  and  Commission  Registers,' 
voh  iii.  pp.  67-8,  there  were  two  regiments 
of  foot  known  as  the  Duke  of  Bolton^.  The 
first  was  raised  in  Hampshire  by  the  Marquis 
of  Winchester  (afterwards  first  Duke  of 
Bolton)  in  March,  1699,  and  was  disbanded 
in  1697.  The  second  was  raised  in  Yorkshire 
and  proceeded  to  the  West  Indies  in  lG90»and 
wa?  there  disbanded  after  the  Peace  of  Kys- 


wick.     The  marquis  was  appointed  colonel 
of  both  regiments  8  March,  1689. 

G.  F.  R  B. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  &c. 

Th€  SucetAnors  of  Drake,     By  Julian  S,  Corb«tt. 

{Longmans  4  Co.) 
Ma.  CoRBim  has  coDstitiited  him  self  th«  historiaii 
of  the  Elizabethan  navy  and  its  heroea.  In  May, 
1898,  he  iaaoed  in  two  volumes  *  Broke  and  the 
Tudor  Navy  I  witha  Hi&tory  of  the  Rise  of  Euglaud 
HR  It  Maritime  Power/  which  was  followed  in  June 
of  the  same  year  by  *  Papery  relating  to  the  Navy 
during  the  SpanUh  War.  15B5-L*  To  tbeee  work* 
*  The  Succe88or»  of  Drake'  comes  ns  a  com  pie  m  en  t. 
carrying  the  r&cord  to  the  death  of  Elizabeth  ana 
the  Btoppage  of  the  naval  war.  Though  leaa 
gratifyinff  to  the  national  pride  than  the  eiploita 
of  the  years  immediately  preoedent,  includiixg  the 
constant  singeing  by  Drake  of  the  King  of  Sfiaio'e 
beard  and  the  destruction  of  the  '*  Invincible 
Armada."  and  though  barren,  in  a  flcnBc,  of  result, 
the  iTiciacnts  now  depicl-ed  ara  sufiScientlv  strikinjc 
and  heroic.  Between  the  wreck  of  the  **  Invioeible 
Armada"  and  the  approach  of  the  "Invisible 
Armada"  atteropts  of  Spam  to  effect  a  landiog  in 
England »  or  otherwise  to  injure  us,  were  continuous. 
Even  more  numeroqa  were  the  efibrta  of  EngUab- 
meu— we  will  not  say  to  retaliate,  aince  they  were 
oonHiantly  the  a^^rcsiorfi,  but  to  repeat  the  deeds 
of  Drake ;  to  capture  the  rich  L^imnish  pae«eflsjonB 
in  the  West  Indies,  and  to  aeize  the  richly  laden 
galleons  which,  for  fear  of  the  Eoaliah  **  pirates  "— 
the  use  of  the  term  is  almost  to  be  iustified,  even 
though  they  were  not  the  original  aggressors— 
scarcely  dared  show  their  noees  out  of  port.  The 
IHjriod  occupied— that  between  15S8  and  the  acces- 
sion of  James  L^  which  put  ao  end  to  the  war  with 
6pain— ia,  as  Mr,  Corbeit  saya,  one  '*of  brilliant 
failures."  Deeds  of  highest  valonr  were  accom- 
plished, and  Englishmen,  accustomed  to  constant 
auccesfl,  learned  to  deepije  their  foe  until  there 
were  aearcely  any  odds  they  were  not  prepared  to 
face.  tSo  mismanaged,  however,  were  matters  at 
home,  and  such  were  the  ev4Ia  of  divided  ooun^ls 
and  commands,  that  the  resulte  achieved  were 
practically  uurenmnemtive ;  and  the  indignities 
to  which  Philip  was  subjected  were  calculated 
to  waken  rather  than  weaken,  t«  arouec  that 
monarch  from  his  lethargy,  and  to  provoke  him,  as 
finally  was  done,  into  a  stem  resolve  to  revenge  at 
any  cost  the  contempt  with  which  he  had  oeen 
treated. 

Among  the  events  recorded,  the  most  important, 
if  not  the  moat  heroic,  wa«  the  occupation  of 
CadiK*  Seeli?y  has  called  this  **  the  Trafalgar  of 
the  EUzabethao  war,"  Nothing  practically  came 
of  it  except  the  creation  of  a  Sfmniah  6eet, 
the  occnpation  of  Ireland,  the  attempted  lannch- 
ing  ii^inat  England  of  thr&e  Armadas,  the  forma- 
tion of  naval  stations  down  the  length  of  the 
Channel,  and  the  establishment  at  8luyft — prac- 
tically within  our  defensive  armour — of  t^pinola, 
one  of  the  ablest  and  moat  adventurous  of  Spanish 
command  era.  Mr,  Ckirbett'a  own  estimate  is  that, 
""*  so  far  from  being  a  crowning  aneoeaS}  it  was  rather 
an  irretrievable  miscarriage,  that  oondemoed  the 


9k&yiLFBB.2,igoi.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


99 


wmr  to  ao  inefficient  conclusion."  With  this  brilliant 
feat— for  such,  whatever  its  results,  it  was— it  is 
weU  to  compare  the  deeds  of  Chimberland  at  Puerto 
Rico  and  the  capture  of  a  Spanish  carrack  at 
Cezimbra  Road,  the  latter  a  stupendous  feat,  since. 
in  addition  to  being  three  times  as  big  as  any  vessel 
of  the  attacking  force,  the  carrack  in  question  was 
manned  by  a  fresh  and  picked  crew,  was  imme- 
diatelv  under  the  guns  of  a  formidable  fort,  and 
had,  in  addition,  Uie  support  of  galleys  twice  as 
nomeroufl  as  the  English  neet.  It  is  not,  of  course, 
for  the  first  time  that  these  deeds  are  recorded, 
the  particulars  being  supplied  in  the  *  Naval  Tracts 
of  Sir  William  Monson  in  Churchill's  'Collection 
of  Voyages  and  Travels.'  Monson,  whose  share  in 
the  deeds  he  depicts  was  highly  honourable,  wrote, 
however,  from  distant  memories,  and  is  scarcely 
trustworthy  as  an  historical  authority.  Drake 
dded  daring  the  period  with  which  Mr.  Corbett 
deals,  and  the  most  noted  among  his  successors 
indnde  Essex  and  Ralegh.  Howard  of  Effingham 
(the  Lord  High  Admiral),  Lord  Thomas  Howard, 
Sir  Francis  Vere  (Colonel-General  of  the  English  Low 
Country  Brigade).  Sir  George  Carew,  the  Earl  of 
Camberland,  Sir  Richard  Leveson,  Lord  Mountjoy, 
Monson,  and  verv  many  others,  are  vividly  de- 
picted. Ralegh,  whose  intellectual  greatness  is  con- 
ceded, IB  the  subject  of  severe  stricture,  though  it 
is  owned  that  to  judge  him  with  confidence  is  im- 
possible.   *'  His  name  has  never  held  a  real  place 

in  the  roll  of  our  great  admirals Ralegh  never 

did  anything  on  the  sea  that  Essex  did  not  do 
better ;  there  is  nothing  that  Ralegh  ever  wrote  on 
the  naval  art  that  cannot  be  matched  hy  something 
as  sagacious  and  far-sighted  from  the  hps  or  pen  of 
Essex.''  On  the  whole,  however,  it  is  conceded 
that  on  Ralegh,  above  iJl  others,  fell  the  mantle  of 
Drake.  Mr.  Corbett's  book  is  brightly  and  well 
written,  and  his  narrative  is  animated.  Admirable 
iUnstrations  in  photochrome  of  Elssex  and  other 
wort^es,  and  process  reproductions  of  Ralegh 
and  Cnmberlana,  together  with  maps  and  other 
deaigna,  add  to  the  attractions  of  a  readable  and 
trustworthy  volume,  embodying  the  fruits  of  much 
research  in  quarters  that  have  only  become  acces- 
sible within  recent  years. 

Le  ZHx-nettviime  SiSde.  (Librairie  Hachette. ) 
It  may  hardlv  be  said  that  a  book  such  as  this 
is  impoesible  elsewhere  than  in  France.  Nowhere 
elae,  however,  so  far  as  we  recall,  has  any- 
thing of  the  kind  been  attempted.  In  a  single 
Tolnme  of  some  four  to  five  hundred  pages  we  have 
here  portrayed  the  manners,  the  arts,  and  the 
ideas  of  France  during  the  past  century.  The 
work  is  essentially  national.  Other  couutries, 
except  so  far  as  their  history  is  interwoven  with 
that  of  France,  are  unmentioned.  The  work  is 
devoted  to  the  development  of  French  ideas,  the 
raoord  of  French  accomplishment,  the  exposition  of 
Frsnch  genius.  It  is  neither  political,  controversial, 
nor  in  the  active  sense  historical.  From  the 
period  of  Napoleon  to  that  of  Pasteur  the  progress 
and  influence  of  France  are  traced,  the  whole  being 
sooompanied  by  some  hundreds  of  illustrations  of 
social  and  political  scenes,  combats,  domestic  in- 
tenon,  art  and  social  life,  together  with  portraits 
of  the  most  distingiushed  actors  in  tne  long 
drama  of  history.  The  change  wrought  by  a 
long  period  of  time  is  more  sensiDle  in  the  deveiop- 
ssQt  of  m  nation  than  of  an  individuaL  Some 
•eoraa  or«  pBrfaH>»»  hundreds  exist  who,  having  been 


bom  in  the  eighteenth  century,  have  managed 
to  draw  breath  in  the  twentieth.  Perceptible 
enough  is,  of  course,  the  influence  of  time  upon 
such,  connecting  as  it  does  the  infant  with  the 
centenarian.  It  seems  nothing,  however,  beside 
that  of  the  century  which  has  seen  the  intro- 
duction of  gas  ana  electricity,  of  railways  and 
telegraphs,  and  the  application  to  daily  life  of 
the  magical  discoveries  of  science.  This  subject 
would  lead  us  further  than  we  can  go.  It  will 
convey  some  idea  of  the  change  that  has  been 
wrought  when  we  think  that  the  past  century, 
which  at  its  outset  knew  no  better  method  of 
bridging  space  than  by  the  primitive  and  clumsy 
expedient  of  the  semaphore,  ends  with  a  dream, 
less  wild  than  appeared  at  the  outset  some  that  have 
been  realized,  of  entering  into  direct  communication 
with  Mars. 

So  far  as  the  book  before  us  is  concerned,  the 
representatives  in  France  of  the  nineteenth  century 
are  assumed  to  be  Hu^,  Pasteur,  Delacroix,  Rude, 
and  Berlioz,  a  selection  that  no  one  could  have 
dreamed  of  making  at  the  middle  of  the  century. 
The  selection  may  pass,  though  we  fancy  that 
others  might  have  been  selected  whose  influence 
is  destined  to  be  more  permanent.  With  this  it  is 
presumptuous  for  Englishmen  to  deal.  Napoleon  is, 
of  course,  the  most  potent  and  abiding  influence 
by  which  this  volume  is  permeated.  He  is  not 
directly  named,  however,  as  such,  just  as,  if  we 
were  asked  to  name  the  principal  blessings  with 
which  we  are  surronndea,  we  should  probably 
neglect  to  count  the  air,  without  which  our 
existence  would  cease.  A  stormy  history  is  that 
which  has  to  be  recorded.  In  the  year  1801  the 
waters  had  scarcely  subsided  after  the  great 
Revolutionary  storm.  Yet  the  century  was  to 
witness  five  further  revolutions,  a  hostile  occupa- 
tion (with  which,  patriotically,  the  compiler  does  not 
occupy  himself  overmuch),  and  the  supremacy  of 
the  Cfommune,  to  which  is  due  the  destruction  of 
some  of  the  noblest  and  most  beautiful  of  French 
monuments.  These  shocks  have  been  survived,  and 
the  intellectual,  artistic,  and  social  life  of  France 
shows  now  scarcely  a  trace  of  their  influence.  That 
peace  even  in  the  most  martial  of  countries  has 
"her  victories  no  less  renowned  than  war"  is 
proved  in  the  fact  that  the  frontispiece  to  the 
volume,  recording  the  century's  triumphs,  consists 
of  a  portrait  of  the  great  chemist  Pasteur  in  his 
laboratory. 

Beginnmg  with  the  Consulate  and  the  Empire, 
the  book  deals  in  its  opening  chapter  with  the 
Tuileries  and  the  Elys^,  the  earliest  of  the  full- 
page  illustrations  oeDicting,  respectively  after 
Delaroche  and  Isabey,  Napoleon  crossing  the  Al])8 
or  visiting  manufactories  in  Rouen,  or  the  arrival 
of  the  diligence  in  the  court  of  the  "  Messageries." 
This  period  closes  with  a  view  of  the  degraded  and 
discrowned  statue  of  Napoleon  lying  supine,  and 
the  portrait,  by  Delarocne,  of  Napoleon  himself 
sitting  solitarily  and  moodily  on  the  rocks  of 
St.  Helena.  A  changing  procession  of  rulers  then 
begins  afresh  with  the  apotheosis  of  Louis  XVIII. 
from  the  cupola  of  the  Pantheon.  "  'Twere  long  to 
tell  and  sad  to  trace"  the  progress  of  the  ever- 
changing  phantasmagoria  of  rulers,  as  shown  in 
reproductions  of  State  pageants  or  the  designs  of 
caricaturists,  the  succession  of  State  functions  being 
varied  by  grim  pictures  of  barricades  held  by  boys 
and  half -naked  narridans.  A  tragic  episode  is  con- 
stituted by  the  last  days  of  the  unfortunate  Em- 


100 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9»8.viLito.  2,1901. 


peror  Maximilian.  Of  more  literary  interest  are 
the  second  chai>ter,  which  is  on  the  salons,  and  the 
third,  on  the  tine  arts  and  the  theatres.  Amon^ 
the  illustrations  to  the  third  chapter  are  the  studio 
of  Horace  Vernet  and  reproductions  of  *  Les 
Glaneuses  *  and  the  *  Angelus  '  of  Millet,  the 
*  Coucher  de  8oleil '  of  Rousseau,  the  *  Marshal 
Ney'  and  the  *  Chant  du  Depart'  of  Rude,  the 
reading  of  a  play  at  the  Comedie  Fran^aise,  and 
many  other  things  of  equal  interest,  including  a 
splendid  series  of  portraits.  It  is,  indeed,  dilficult 
to  convey  an  idea  of  the  value,  the  beauty,  or  the 
interest  of  a  volume  which  is  a  credit  to  the  pub- 
lisher, and  constitutes  the  tinest  souvenir  yet  issued 
of  the  glories  of  a  century  too  near  us  still  for  its 
claims  to  be  impartially  discussed  or  its  measure 
accurately  taken. 

The  Sources  and  LUercUure  of  Eiiglish  History  from 
the  Earliest  Times  to  about  1485,  By  Charles 
Gross,  Ph. D. Harvard.  (Longmans  &  Co.) 
To  Dr.  Gross  of  Harvard  University,  the  author  of 
a  *  Bibliography  of  British  Municipal  History,'  we 
are  indebted  for  the  most  serious  attempt  that  has 
yet  been  made  to  supply  us  with  a  scientitic  account 
of  the  sources  and  treatment  of  our  history.  Verv 
arduous  and  difficult  of  accomplishment  is  the  task 
undertaken— so  much  so,  that  it  was  supposed  to 
await  concerted  and  co-operative  effort.  Nothing 
of  the  kind  being  forthcoming,  and  our  progress  in 
this  important  held  of  bibliography  being  in  arrear 
of  that  of  almost  every  civilized  country,  Dr.  Gross 
has  made  an  earnest  beginning,  which,  while  it 
puts  in  no  claim  to  completeness,  is  at  least  credit- 
able accomplishment  and  will  lighten  greatly  the 
labours  of  those  who  come  after  the  author.  It 
deals  but  slightly  with  manuscript  sources,  which 
have  received  special  attention  from  the  late  Sir 
Thomas  Du£fus  Hardy,  Mr.  8.  R.  iScargill  Bird, 
and  others  connected  with  the  Record  Oiiioe.  A 
systematic  survey  is,  however,  taken  of  ''the 
printed  materials  relating  to  the  political,  consti- 
tutional, legal,  social,  and  economic  history  of 
England,  Wales,  and  Ireland,"  Scotland  being,  for 
special  reasons,  left  out,  so  far  as  regards  her 
mediaeval  government  and  institutions.  Worthless 
and  obsolete  treatises  have  been  omitted,  a  few 
untrustworthy  works  being  mentioned  in  order 
that  the  reader  may  be  cautioned  against  them. 
It  is  in  consequence  of  valued  suggestions  from 
important  quarters  that  Dr.  Gross  has  gone  further 
than  Dahlmann-Waitzand  Monod,  and  has  given  an 
account  of  the  contents  and  a  brief  estimate  of  the 
value  of  the  books  instanced.  This  estimate  is  not 
invariably  his  own.  In  the  case  of  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth  he  thus  quotes  the  opinion  of  Miss  Kate 
Norgate,  an  excellent  authority,  that  his  '  History 
of  Britain '  is  '*an  elaborate  tissue  of  Celtic  myths, 
legends,  and  traditions,  scraps  of  classical  and 
Scriptural  learning,  and  fantastic  inventions  of  the 
author's  own  fertile  brain,  all  dexterously  thrown 
into  a  pseudo-historical  shape."  From  this  quota- 
tion it  will  be  seen  that  our  author  is  no  believer 
in  the  legends  of  King  Arthur  and  Merlin,  for  which 
the  *  History '  of  Geoffrey  is  largely  responsible.  For 
the  *  Historia  Brittonum  *  of  Nennius  he  has,  with  re- 
serve, something  more  to  say.  Though  of  little  value 
as  an  historical  source,  it  is  of  some  importance  for 
the  study  of  early  British  mythology.  In  expressing 
unfavourable  opinions  Dr.  (>ross  mia  at  least  the 
coura^  of  his  convictions.  He  thus  speaks  of  an 
historical  work  by  a  famous  Queen's  Counsel  as 


'*  an  unreliable  compilation."  At  the  same  time  be 
characterizes  the  *  Trial  by  Combat '  of  our  contri- 
butor Mr.  George  Neilson  as  **a  scholarly  work 
which  has  superseded  John  Selden's  *  The  Duello.'" 
How  important  a  task  is  accomplished  may  be  seen 
from  what  we  have  said.  Its  enduring  value  depends 
upon  the  trustworthiness  of  the  opinions  expressed. 
We  know  no  work  in  which  so  much  is  done  for  the 
student,  though  Lowndes  (* Bibliographer's  Manual') 
gives  a  short  summary  of  some  few  b<K)ks,  and  refers 
one  occasionally  to  authorities  such  as  the  Retro- 

S active  Review.  In  the  case  of  a  famous  Peerage 
r.  Gross  says  it  should  be  used  with  caution.  The 
most  comprehensive  of  works  of  the  class  he  in- 
stances is  the  *  Complete  Peerage'  of  G.  £.  C[oka]meJ, 
and  as  the  most  exhaustive  treatise  on  heraldi^  he 
names  that  of  John  Woodward  and  George  Burnett. 
There  is  an  immense  amount  of  information,  and  to 
render  it  available  requires  a  huge  index,  which 
happily  is  provided.  The  book,  which  occupies 
between  six  and  seven  hundred  pa^,  is  an  out- 
come of  the  interest  recently  inspired  in  biblio- 
graphy. That  its  arrangement  is  the  best  we  can 
conceive  we  will  not  say.  It  is,  however,  a  work 
of  much  importance. 


We  hear  with  much  regret  of  the  death,  at 
Hastings,  of  Mr.  Basil  Woodd  Smith,  D.L.,  chair- 
man of  the  Hampstead  bench  of  magistrates,  and 
during  many  years  an  occasional  contributor  to 
our  columns. 

We  must  call  special  attention  to  the  following 
notices:^ 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  name 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub- 
lication, but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

We  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately. 

To  secure  insertion  of  communications  corre- 
spondents must  observe  the  following  rules.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answer- 
ing queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previous 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exact 
heading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repeat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  oom- 
munication  *'  Duplicate." 

Gw ALIA.— You  should  apply  to  the  authoritiea 
who  gave  the  certificate,  explaining  the  dream- 
stances. 

M.  R.  P. —  English  aversion  to  use  such  plain 
words  is  a  feature  of  these  latter  days  which  many 
have  noticed. 

F.  W.  Rogers.— We  cannot  answer  such  ques- 
tions.   Apply  to  a  bookseller. 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addressed  to 
"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries '  "—Advertise- 
ments and  Business  Letters  to  "The  Publisher"^ 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  E.C. 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  retom 
oommunioations  whioh,  for  any  reason,  we  do  no^ 
print ;  and  to  this  role  we  oan  make  no  szoeptioii. 


»^  8.  vn.  vn.  a.  UNO.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OP  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


TkM  A  rUBNjtiUM  for  January  96  eontaim  ArtieUi  on 

KKSOSOe  of  the  If  AVY. 
ItoOOTBAM  8T0BIB8. 


I TBNIOB  ia  tta«  f 


CHMTURY. 
Of  Aroodj:  A  Miuinf 


nW   MOTBLB^-Tte  WaMnl ;    A 

Bmoi  TIM Umton  of  Loto  i  Fomiaau  Uoiuui. 
AMIUCAM  UTBRATUaB. 
OIMBALOOIOAL  UTBaATUaB. 
OUBMTAL  UTBRATUBB. 
■ATAL  and  MILITARY  BOOKS. 
AimQUAUAM  LITBKATU&B. 
GC&  LURARY  TABLB-LUT  of  ZIBW  BOOKS. 
Mr.  r.  W.  K.   MYBRSi    HUOHOWN ;    AOB-LIMIT  la 

OKAOB  SCHOOLS  i  The  DUG  do  BROOLIB ;  BALB8. 


Attroaomioal  Hotel;   Sodetle*} 


LI1XBABY  eoSSIP. 

-Bceeet  PebUeetioiit ; 

I  Jlezt  Week ;  Goeelp. 
rUB  AKT».— noBMnAitj  Mew  Priste ;  Silee  i  Ooerip. 
HUUC  ^-LUe  of  WagBer ;  Qneea  vietorla'e  AppredaUoa  of  Mnsic  ead 

-Mabie'e  file  of  Shakeepeaie ;  Beeeat  Flaje;  Oocalp. 


7A«  ATUtCNAiUM  for  JaxMary  IS  contaim  ArtieUs  on 

TWO  CBLTIC  FOBTB. 

LBADOIO  OOOUMBNTS  of  BMOUSH  HISTOBY. 

HADAOASCAB  aad  MAURITIUS. 

ABBRSBBHSHIRB  PLACB-NAMBB. 

RBOOKOe  aC  HAMMURABL 

ORUMTAL  RUDY  la  BBRLIM. 

BBW  ■OTRLS.— Dr.  Hoith  aad  hie  Frleade;    The  laaer  Shrlae; 

Ileiiia  Bwdhpy. 
MOLTCART  BOOKS. 
nMSOL0»l  aal  lOLK-LORB. 
HBW  TBSTCAMBHT  LITBRATURK 
•■ORT  BTOBIBB. 
CLAMiCAL  FHILOLOOY. 
rULmCAL  BOOBOMY  aad  HISTORY. 
OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
BOTBUS  SCHASIDORPH  -.  OOPYRIOHT  la  8BRIAL  MATTBR  {  The 

-rwanataa  m  to  HUCROWH ;  A  RBULAMATION  i  DBATH  of 

XOie  ALPRBD. 


IT  OO0SIP. 

L KUda;  Medleel  Booke; OeofxaphloJ Hotet {  Sodettee t 
MeoOiWilleat  Week ;  Ooidp. 

IBARIB.    BeewiehMafketCroeeee;  lihraiyTftMet  Goeelp. 
>-TheWeek}  Ooeelpi  Ferfomaaeee  Next  Week. 


Tfu  ATHSNAiUM  for  January  19  oofttainit  ArtieU*  on 

STBVBNSON  la  the  SOUTH  8BAS. 

The  TRUTH  ABOUT  OMAR. 

CHRIST'S  COLLBOB,  CAMBRIDOB. 

OKBBK  PLANT,  STUNK,  ftad  ANIMAL  WORSHIP. 

HISTORY  of  NBWPORT  PAONBLL. 

BDUOATIONAL  BOOKS. 

SPORTS  ead  PA8TIMBS. 

ORBBK  PHILOSOPHY. 

RBCBNT  VBRSB. 

BNOLISH  PHILOLOGY. 

OUR  UBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

The  LATB  BISHOP  Of  LONDON ;  DR.  CKBIOHTON  as  a  CLA88 
TBACHBK:  -FIRB  OUT"  In  LITBRaHY  BNOU8H :  CHAN- 
CBLLOR  CHRISTIB}  The  THBOBIBS  as  to  HUCHOWN ;  DR 
MOSB8  OOIT  TYLBR ;  The  INCORPORATBD  ASSOCIATION  of 


Alw>- 


HBAD  MASTBRS. 
LITBRARY  GOSSIP. 

8CIBNCB :— Library  Table;  AtlaMe  aad  Mape;  Sodetlee;  MeetlaRe 
Next  Week ;  Oowlp. 

FINB  ARTS :— Chippendale  Puraltare ;  Booke  for  Studente ;   Dudley 

GaUery  LandMsape  Bzhibltloa  ;  Sale ;  Goedp. 
MUSIC  :-The  Week  ;  Goeelp ;  Performaaoee  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-Aa  Antofiaph  Play  of  PhlUp  Maeelnger;   Aa   Uaknowa 

Barly  AUnaloa  to  Shakepcare ;  Ooaclp 


T/u  A  THSNAiUMfbr  January  5  contain$  Articlu  on 

The  OXPORO  BOOK  of  BNGLISH  VBRSB. 

The  RULBKS  of  the  SOUTH. 

A  CAPTAIN  Of  the  SIKHS. 

The  STORY  of  PLORBNCB. 

OLD  BNGU8H  GLOS8BS. 

The  NBW  PAPYKL 

NBW  DANTB  LITBRATURB. 

A  SYRIAN  SBCT. 

NBW  NOVBLS:-Preindfedi  God'a  Lad;  The  Away  of  PhlUppa; 
Strtnfftowa  on  the  nke ;  Committed  to  his  Cnarge ;  Amoor,  Amour. 

AMBRICAN  HISTORY. 

TRANSLATIONS. 

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LITBRATURB. 

SCOTTISH  HISTORY. 

BOOKS  for  CHILDRBN. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB.-LIST  Of  NBW  BOOKS. 

The  ARGONAUTS  of  the  NBW  AGB ;  The  BOOK  SALES  Of  1900; 
0HARLB8  LAMB  ae  a  LANDBD  PROPRIBTOH ;  Tbe  DATS  Of 
KING  ALFRBO'S  DBATH;  DANTB  TRANSLATION  8BBN  la 
IMO;  ANOTHKR  NBW  THBORY  ae  to  HUCHOWN;  PAPBRS  Of 
WILLIAM  PBNN ;  The  SBOOND  CA8KBT  LBTTBR. 


LITBRARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIBNCB  :— Booke  on  Bleetridty ;  Botanical  Literature ;  Aetronomloal 

Note* ;  Meetiogt  Next  Week ;  Goeelp. 
FINB  ARTS :— Llbr^rr  Table ;  The  Sodety  of  OU  Palntere ;  Romaa 

BrltalBlBlMX);  Goeelp. 
MUSIC :— Life  of  BeethoTon ;  Goeelp ;  Performanees  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-Herod ;  The  Llkeaeee  of  the  Nlffht ;  Goeelp. 


The  ATHENjBUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 

JOHH    C    FRANCIS,    AthaiuBain    Office,    Bream's  BoildiDgs,    Chancery  Lane,   E.C. 

And  of  all  MewiagentB. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [»*  8.  vil  fir.  s 


Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBFARTMBNT 


TKB  lOUOWDTG 


MAOAZINBS  AND 
BBVIBW8. 


WITHDRAWN  FROM 
OIROULATIOSr. 


LIBRARY  COPIES 

POSTAQE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  ann( 


Until  farther  notioe  :— 
MAOAZINBS,  SIX  WBBE8  AFTBU  DATB. 


«.  d. 

7    6 

Longman's       

13    0 

Maomillan's      

10    6 

National  Review        

16    0 

Nineteenth  Oentory 

7    6 

Pall  Mall          

6    0 

Revue  del  Deux  Mondei     

16    0 

Soribner't          

9    0 

Temple  Bar      

Argoey 

Blackwood's      

Oentttry 

Contemporary  Review 

OomhiU ...       

BngUsh  Illustrated  ... 
Fortnightly  Review  ... 
HarpeiPs 

QUARTBRLT  RBVIBWS,  THRBB  MONTHS  AFTBR  DATB. 
■dlnburgh       7    6 1  Quarterly  

The  terms  will  be  U,  ed,  per  annum  less  to  Sabsoribers  living  sofficiently  near  the  Booki 
have  the  Magasines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BB  PAID  IN  ADVANCB,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  peri( 
TWBLVB  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subM>ril 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSORIPTIONS  MAT  GOMMENGE  AT  ANT  DATE. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFBRBD  AT  QRBATLT  RBDUCBD  PRICES  BT 

W.      H.       SMITH&SO 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  tke  Railway  BoeksUUU,  to  which  place*  they  will  be/crwardcd  carriage  free. 

THB  BOOKS  ARB  NBW  AS  PUBLISHBD. 

OBNTURT  MAOAZINB.  The.    Vob.  17,  30.  and  83      

ATALANTA  MAOAZINB.    Vol,  6 

LONDON  BOOIBTY.    a  vols,  for  1891         

a  vols,  for  189a         

OASSBLL'S  MAOAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1898,  to  May,  1899.    Illustrated  . 
Vol.  for  June  to  November.  1899.    Illustrated       


CHAMBBB8*S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURB,  SCIBNCB.  and  ARTS. 

Vol.  for  1895  ... 

Vol.  for  1896  ... 

Vol.  for  1897  ... 

Vol.  for  1898  ... 

Vol.  for  1899  ... 

QUIVBR  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  April.  1898 

November,  1896,  to  April.  1899 

May  to  October.  1899 

GOOD  WORDS.    VoU.  for  1888, 1893.  1894.  1895.  1896.  1897.  and  1898 
SUNDAY  MAOAZINB.    Vols,  for  1889.  1893.  1894,  1895,  1896.  and  1898 


Vol.  for  1892.. 


«.  d. 

8  6 

8  0 

16  0 

15  0 


9  0 

9  0 

9  0 

9  0 

9  0 

9  0 


7    6 
9    0 


W.  H.  SMITH  iL  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186.  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  mt  over  600  Railway  Bookstalls,  to  which  places  Subscribers  can  be  transferred,  free  of  charge. 

PtotptctHt  of  Jcmu,  ^.,  seat  fr§e  upon  application  to  186,  STRAND^  LONDOS. 

•FMaled  hf  JOHM  BOWARD  FRAMCXa.  Atk«amAPi«iav^Bra»'«^«&iBi^»«^^^<>M<«1  ^^>^  >  O.  t  aad  PaUlskad  by 
JOMM  a  nLkIICI8atBNam*aBalMlBC».GtaaBMr|  UttA,lL^-  " 


i    NOTES   AND    QUERIES: 

%  yUbtsm  0l  Intortommttnicauon 


'i\ 


FOB 


B  LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


**WliMi  fonad,  make  a  note  of."— Captain  Cuttls. 


No.  163.  [?,Sf.]  Saturday,  February  9,  1901. 


i     Pbiob  FouRPXiroK. 

(   Etfiitmrtd  aa  m  Ntm$pi^0r. 


C«^ 


LLBT0N*8    HERALDIC    OFFICE 


AMMOaikL   BB4aiN0«   AMD   FAMILY    DBSCBMT8. 

wllk  ft  IcfanM  D«putamt  for  the  Artiftle  ProdnetlM  of 

HBBALDIO  PAUrmfO  AMD  BMORATINO. 


nm.  ttffBct  Riag*.  Utott  Batton*.  Cnttod  Noto- 
>,  Ylilttaff  and  InTiUtlon  CtetU,  *e. 


tS.  nOCAUILLT.  LONDON  (oppoalte  tho  OrMB  Park). 


HOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  aup- 
pitod.  M  aattor  oa  wbat  Sabjeek.  Aekaowl«dc«d  the  worid  OT«r 
••  «^  M«M  .apart  B<M>hflad«ra  .Btaac  Pleu.  ttaia  waau.— H AKBK'8 
<i— i  N*rta.iMp,  14-lf,  Joka  Brlchc  tKroat,  Blrmlarham. 


AOBNOT  FOR  AMBiaCAN  BOU&tt. 

GP.   PUTNAM'S   SONS,   PUBLISHERS   and 
•  BOOKSBLLBBS. 

•t «  aW  S^  W«M  OH  8ir«a(,  Mew  York,  and  S4,  BBDPOKD  8TKBBT, 
MMDOir.  W.C,  dartre  to  eaU  the  attaaUoa  of  the  KBADING 
rCrBUO  to  A*  eieellmt  laeUiilM  pr«eeated  by  thalr  Brmaeh  HoaM  la 
ler  iUiaff,  ea  the  aost  tavoarable  tenat,  ordera  for  their 
k  nAKUAliD  PUBLICATIONS,  aad  for  ALL  AMBBICAM 
BKB. 

Oataiofraee  aeat  oa  appiieattoa. 


ATHBNiCUM      PKKiSS.— JOHN     EDWARD 
FBAMCU.  Pilaier  of  the  Athmmum.  N*t0$  end  QmtrU$,  *o  .  is 
MM  !•  BUBMTT  BSTIMATBt)   for  all  klade  of  BOOK.  MBW8, 
PNBIODICAL   PBIMTIMG.— IS,  Braaoi'e    Balldtaffs,   Chaaeerj 

i,mc 


THE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER- FAD. 

X    (The  LBADBNHALL  I^MmiB.  Led  .  Pabitahora  aad  Knatert 
M.  liMiiMhall  Street.  Loadoa.  B.0  ; 
CHMae  hainoM  paper,  over  whleb   th«    p«d   tllM  with    ixTfert 
toaMOHL    aupcwee  eaeh.    U.  per  doaea.  raled  or  plala.    New  Poeket 


Aaiatn  ahoaid  aete  that  The  Leadeahall  Preee,  Ltd..  caaaoi  be 
'^'t  ler  the  iom  of  MM  by  ire  or  etherwiae.    Daplicate  copim 


ICKPHAST    PASTE    is   HEAPS  better  than 


finiCKPI 

O  Q«Bfor 


la  8empe,  JolaiBff  Fapera.  *e.   6d.  aad  1«.  with 

^ taot  a  Toji.    Bead  two  naaipe  to  eover  poetage 

tm  a  MBBla  Bottle,  tactillag  Brash.     Faetory.  dagar  Loaf  Coart, 
toadMhaildueet.  B.C.    Of  all  Htaiioaers.    iMekphast  Paste  stlefcs 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

OOFfSS— SU»A&— TEA. 

104,  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  W.C. 


O 


,NE    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES. 

oa  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MORINO. 


Engraved 


Feap.  4to.    Prlated  direct  from  tiie  Original  Blo^s  on  Hand-made 
Paper,  boand  in  artistie  boarda.  U«.  6d.  net. 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Engraved  on  Copper. 

By  THOMAS  MORINO. 

Uniform  with  the  abore.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Platae 

on  Hand-made  Paper,  n*.  net. 

THOMAS  MORINO, 
The  De  la  More  Prese,  U,  High  Hoi  born.  London.  W.O. 


NOW  RBADY,  SBOOND  BDITION,  RBVI8BO  and  AUOMBNTBO, 
price  Sizpeaoe. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       Y  O  U  N  O. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  RA.  F.R.A.8. 

O.  BTONBMAN,  10,  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 


Secoad  Bditioa,  price  Fourpenee. 

RIEF       LESSONS       in       ASTRONOMY. 

Br  W.  T.  LtNM.  B  A    F.R.A.S 
"  ConToys  «  ereat  deal  of  latormetton  withoot  oeine  in  any  way  dry 
ori«caniGid  "—KtttHah  Mmrewrt 

O  STt)NEMAN,  19,  Warwick  Laae,  B.C 


H' 


New  Bditioa,  price  Two  Shlllinga. 


/  CELESTIAL    MOTIONS :    a    Handy    Book    of 

V/*    Astroaomy.    Miath  Bditioa     With  S  PiaiM.    By  W.  T    LYMM, 
K^  F.R.A.ft. 

"  Hu  we  «re  gied  to  tee  roacbsd  a  alnth  sdluon,  which  eaables 
thla  excellent  Introduction  to  the  facts  of  astroaomy  to  be  bruaichi  up 
tiihte 


BUWARD  STAMFOKD.  S0aad  ft,  Oockapnr  Street.  Ghana*  Oroos.  8  W. 

8CHWBPPB8  WATBRA  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  International 
Bxhlbltioa.  Paris,  1900 

SGHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

OchweppesOoda. 

THESE  WATERb  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continue  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

/    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:— 
^SGHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN, |> 


In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS. 


ScHWEPPBS,  LTD.,  LONDON,   MaLVERN  , 

OLABGOW,  LIVIBPOOL,  BRIBTOL,  ftYDHlX,  «b4  >ftB&;Mi\3^Ueca 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       p»8.vilfkb.9,i»ol 

Crown  8vo,  pp.  620,  cloth,  Persian  morocco  back,  top  edge  gilt,  5*. 

CLASSICAL  AND  FOREIGN  QUOTATIONS, 

Law  Terms  and  Maxims,  FroverbSi  Mottoes,  Phrases  aad  Expressions 
in  French,  German,  Greek,  Italian,  Latin,  Spanish,  aad  Portuguese, 

WITH    TRANSLATIONS,  REFERENCES,  EXPLANATORY    NOTES  and   INDEXES. 

By  WM.  FRANCIS  HENRY  KING,  M.A.,  Ch.  Ch.,  Oxford. 


London:  J.  WHITAKER  &  SONS,  12,  Warwick  Lane,  E.C. 

WHITAKER'S 

ALMANACK. 

THE    BEST, 

THE    MOST    COMPLETE, 

THE    CHEAPEST,    and 

THE    MOST    USEFUL    ALMANACK 
IN    EXISTENCE. 

1901. 

Sewed,  456  pages.  Is. 
Half  bound,  with  Sapplement,  776  pages,  2$,  6d. 


London :  J.  WHITAKER  &  SONS,  12,  Warwick  Lane,  E.C. 


9»&yiL  Feb.  0,1901.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


101 


LOUDON,  SATURDAY,  FEBRUARY  9,  1901. 


CONTENTS. -No.  163. 

V0TB8 :— Spenaer*  'Locrine,'  and  'Sellmus,'  101— Horace 
Walpole  and  hit  Rdltora,  103 -Superstitious  Cures,  104— 
•'J'al  vicii"— Poiwn  in  Beer  —  Kemarlcahle  **  Century" 
Incident— Syriac  Interrogative  — "Tapping?  "  and  **'np- 
blng  "  — Formation  of  a  Place-name,  106— 'Ambrose 
Gwlnett*— ••  B*jard,"  Name  for  a  Horse— *•  The  power  of 
the  dog,"  106— ]jog  and  Qamekeoper,  107. 

QUBRIBS  :-Oul.  H.  H.  MitoheU-OI«i  Legend,  107 - 
"Oehldore  "  —  **  Inoculation  "  —  Portrait  of  Lord  Mayor 
Thorold  — Gladstone  SUtue  — Royal  Standard  —  Car(yle 
oo  Fools — Suwarroff  and  Mass^na- *  Much  Ado  about 
Hothins.'  106-*  Lasca '— Mrs.  M.  A.  Clarke -B.  0.  Col- 
nan — Butcher— Currency  before  Coinage— Shakespeare— 
"  Time  was  made  for  slaves  "— Marylebone  Cemetery,  109 
—  Henry  VII.  —  *•  Clubbing  the  batUlion  "  —  Authors 
Wanted,  110. 

RBFLIBS:— Leghorn,  110— Poem  by  Dr.  Hatch-**  Insur- 
rection "  -Margaret  of  Bourbon— Markings  on  Hones,  HI 
—Acacia  In  Freemasonrv  —  Voyage  to  Canada  in  1776- 
"Churmagdes  "—Area  of  Churchyards,  113— Lines  on  the 
Skin  —  Ipplepen.  Devon,  113  —  **  Kitty-witch  "— **  Hooli- 
gan"—Barly  Routes  between  Paris  and  London— Salute 
at  Fontenoy,  114— Ktymology  and  Whist  —  Monolith  in 
Hyde  Park— Simon  Fraser— Dncoln's  Inn  Fields— **  Viva  " 
— Usk  Castle,  116— Whifflers  and  Whiffling- Columbaria— 
-Owl  in  Ivy  bush**  — ** Twopenny  Tube,"  116-D'Au- 
▼ergne  Family— Van  der  Meulen  —  Rhododendrons  and 
Olcsuiders  -  Heraldic  —  Age  of  Matriculation  —  Dutton 
Family.  117— William  Morris  as  Business  Man— Movable 
Stocks,  118. 

HOTBS  ON  BOOKS  :—Dauze's  'Index  Bibliographique'- 
Pkyne'e  *  Blizabethan  Voyages  to  America'— Reviews  and 
Majgazines. 

NoUoM  to  Comtpondents. 


EDMUND  SPENSER,  *  LOCRINE/  AND 

*SELIMUS.' 

( Cotit  inibtd  from  p.  63. ) 

I  POINTED  out  that  the  author  of  *  Locrine,* 

whom  I  suspect  to  be  Robert  Greene,  boldly 

copied  from  Spenser's    minor  poems.     The 

farther  and  ioint  relation  of   *The  Ruines 

of  Rome '  with  that  play  and  with  *  Selimus  * 

now  calls  for  attention.     I  will  so  arrange 

the  various   quotations   as    to   show    their 

matoal  dependence  on  each  other,  and  will 

cite  passages  from  Marlowe's  *  Tamburlaine ' 

to  iliastrate  the  contrast  between  the  methods 

of  appropriation  and  of  assimilation  in  the 

two  aispnted  plays.     It  will  be  seen  that 

Spenser  and  *  belimus '  account  for  every  line 

of  the  quotation  I  shall  bring  from  '  Locrine,' 

and  that  *  Tamburlaine '  and  '  Selimus '  agree 

to  u»e  the  word  "darted,"  which  *Iiocnne* 

alters  to  "shot" 

StL  If  SelimuB  were  once  your  emperor 
I'd  dart  abroad  the  thuaderbolU  of  war. 
And  mow  their  heartless  sqaadroos  to  the  ground. 

Were  they  as  mighty  and  as  fell  of  force 
As  those  old  earth-bred  brethren,  which  once 
Heaped  hill  on  hill  to  scale  the  starry  sky, 
Wbso  Briaraui,  arm'd  with  a  hondreth  iuuid% 


Flung  forth  a  hundreth  mountains  at  great  Jove ; 
And  when  the  mouHtrouB  giaut  Monichus 
Hurled  mount  Olympus  at  great  Mars  his  targe, 
And  darted  cedars  at  Minerva's  shield. 

*  Selimus,'  IL  418-20,  and  2431-38. 

Humhtr,  How  bravely  this  young  Briton,  Alba  ■ 
nact, 
Darteth  abroad  the  thunderbolts  of  war. 
Beating  down  millions  with  his  furious  mood, 
And  in  his  glory  triumphs  over  all. 
Moving  the  massy  squadrons  off  the  ground  I 
Heaps  nilLs  on  hills,  to  scale  the  starry  sky : 
As  when  Briareus,  arm'd  with  an  hundretn  hands. 
Flung  forth  an  hundreth  mountains  at  groat  Jove : 
As  when  the  monstrous  giant  Monychus 
Hurl'd  mount  Olympus  at  ^^reat  Mars  his  targe. 
And  shot  huge  cedars  at  Mmerva's  shield. 
How  doth  he  overlook  with  haughty  front 
My  fleeting  hosts,  and  lifts  his  lofty  face 
Against  us  all  that  now  do  fear  his  force  ! 
Like  as  we  see  the  wrathful  sea  from  far, 
in  a  great  mountain  heap'd,  with  hideous  noise. 
With  thousand  billows  beat  against  the  ships, 
And  toss  them  in  the  waves  like  tennis  balls. 

*  Locrine,'  II.  v. 
Thus  in  Spenser : — 
Whilom  did  those  earthborn  brethren  blinde 

To  dart  abroad  the  thunderbolts  of  warre. 

And,  beating  downe  these  walls  with  furious  mood 

Heapt  hils  on  hils  to  scale  the  starry  skie, 
And  fight  against  the  gods  of  heavenly  berth, 
Whiles  Jove  at  them  his  thunderbolts  let  flie ; 
All  suddenly  with  lightning  overthrowne. 
The  furious  squadrons  downe  to  ground  aid  fall, 

•  •••••• 

And  th'  Heavens  in  glorie  triumpht  over  all : 
So  did  that  haughtie  front,  which  heaped  was 
On  these  Seven  Komane  Hils,  it  selfe  upreare 
Over  the  world,  and  lift  her  loftie  face 
Against  the  heaven  that  gan  her  force  to  feare. 

Like  as  ye  see  the  wrathfull  sea  from  farre 
In  a  great  mountaine  heapt  with  hideous  nojrse, 
Eftsoones  a  thousand  billowes  shouldred  narre. 
Against  a  rocke  to  breake  with  dreadtull  poyse, 

•  •••••• 

Tossing  hup^  tempests  through  the  troubled  skie. 

*  The  Ruines  of  Rome,'  stanzas  x.,  xi.,  xii.,  and  xvi. 

"  Shot "  is  a  mean  word  to  put  in  the  place 
of  "darted,"  and  the  "tennis  balls ^'  of 
'  Locrine '  strike  me  as  being  somewhat  of  an 
anomaly.  They  certainly  do  not  add  grace 
to  the  image  of  Spenser.  Now  the  phrasing 
of  '  Selimus,'  which  is  altered  in  *  Locrine,'  is 
the  phrasing  of  *  Tamburlaine,'  which,  of 
course,  borrowed  from  Spenser : — 

Caaroe,   What  means  this  devilish  shepherd,  to 
aspire 
With  such  a  giantly  presumption. 
To  cast  up  hiUs  against  the  face  of  heaven. 
And  dare  the  force  of  angry  Jupiter  ? 

*  1  Tamburlaine,'^  U.  vi.  1-4,  Dyce. 

Tamb.  As  Juno,  when  the  giants  were  suppress'd, 
That  darted  mountains  at  her  brotVi^t  ^qn«. 

*  i  TamV)\u\Mnft;  ^ .  \.  ^Yir-\^ 


102 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»»8.vilfbb.9.uoi. 


Tt^nd}.    Thou    [Jove]    h^at    procur'd    a   greater 
eoemy 
Thau  he  tkat  darttd  mouutaias  at  thy  heiad* 

*2  Tamburkine,'  tV,  i,  132-33. 

•  Here  let  me  aay  that  there  are  !?ieveral 
other  passages  in  Marlowe  that  could  be  cited 
to  show  that  he  wa8  an  admirer  of  'The 
Kuinea  of  Rome  * :  and  in  one  cswe  he  seems 


an   indirect  allusion    to   Spenser 


to    make 
himself  :- 

Ab  that  brave  sonue  of  AeaoHj  which  by  eharmes 
Atchiev'd  the  golden  fleece  in  Colcbid  laud. 
Out  of  the  eanh  ^ng^iidred  men  of  armes 
Of  drains  teeth,  aowne  in  the  oaored  sand^ 
80  this  brave  towne  that  In  youthlie  daiei 
An  hydra  waa  of  warriours  glorious^  &c. 

*  The  Ruiue^  of  Roine/  stanKn  x. 

When  Marlowe  alludes  to  the  fable  he 
does  so  in  the  precise  phraseology  of  *  The 
Euinea  of  Rome/  and  ne  makes  Meander 
attribute  it  to  **the  poets."  Surely  he  was 
thinking  particularly  of  Spenser.  But  I 
will  quote  :— 

Mtaii.  Like  to  the  cruel  brothem  of  the  earth, 
Sjprung  of  the  teeth  of  dragon*  venemotifl. 
Their  carele«ft  sworda   sbaU  lance   their   fcUowa* 

throats, 
And  make  11a  triumph  id  their  overthrow. 
Myc^tea.  Waa  there  such  brethren »  Bweet  Meander, 
aay, 
'  That  sprung  of  teeth  of  dragonn  venemouA? 
Mf^an.  Bo  poeta  aay,  my  lord. 
Muc-  And  t  is  a  pretty  toy  to  be  a  poet. 
Well,  well,  Meander,  thou  art  deeply  read. 
And  having  thee,  1  have  a  jew^el  nure, 

*  I  Tambnrlftine/  II.  ii.  47-fi6. 

Of  course,  I  claim  that  the  coincidence  of 
*13elimus'  and  *  Tamburlaine '  borrowing 
identical  material  from  the  i^ame  poem  of 
SpeQaer  is  an  argument  in  favour  of  the 
Marlowe  authorship  of  both  plays.  But  I 
deny  that  the  same  argument  can  hold  f;€K>d 
in  respect  to  'Locrine/  which  copies  *JSeli- 
mus  ^  almost  as  outrageously  as  it  does 
Spenser,  The  author  of  *Locrine'  merely 
happened  to  discover  that  *Selimu3^  had 
obtained  a  small  portion  of  its  material  from 

*  The  Ruines  of  Rome/  and  he  followed  suit, 
but  with  less  discretion  and  infinitely  less 
ability. 

The  following  are  a  few  of  the  many 
identities  that  can  be  brouj^ht  together  from 

*  Selimua '  and  *  Locrine.'  I  could  fill  pages 
with  such  parallels  ; — 

Acmnat,  Fortune  doth  favour  everjr  bold  assay. 
And  ^t  were  a  trick  of  an  unsettled  wit 
Because  the  beea  have  siingi^  with  them  alway, 
To  fear  our  mouthi  i[i  honey  to  embay, 

\Selmiua/ S26-29, 

//p^.  Ho  iB  not  worthy  of  the  honeycomb 
TTItat  £thtin0  the  hii^es  bec&u§e  the  becsa  have  atings* 


BaJ.  Now  BajoKet  will  ban  another  while. 
And  utter  curaes  to  the  concave  sky 
Which  may  infect  the  airy  ceffioui. 

Send  out  thy  furiea  from  thy  fiery  hall  j 
The  pitile&a  Krynnii  arm*d  with  whips 
And  al!  the  damned  moneitcri}  of  black  holL 

More  bloody  than  the  Anthropophad, 
That  fill  their  hungry  Btomacha  with  men*e  flewh, 
*Selimua;il.  1!S00'1803;  1330-^2;  and  1421-22L 

Thus  copied  in  a  speech  of  '  Locrine' ; — 

Hum.  Where  may  I  damn*  condemn,  and  ban  my 
fill 

And  utter  oursei  to  the  ooncave  »ky 
Which  may  infect  the  airy  regiona. 

Gome,  fierce  Erynnis,  horrible  with  anake« ; 
Come,  ugly  furiea,  armed  with  your  whips; 

Or  where  the  bloody  Anthropophapi 
With  greedy  jaws  devour  the  wandering  wights, 

IIL  vL 

No  author  repeats  himself  in  this  slavish 
manner,  nor  would  he  imitate  a  whole  scene 
of  one  of  his  own  plays  as  *  Locrine/  IV.  ii., 
imitates  11.  1874  to  1990  of  *Selimus.'  The 
action,  the  order  of  the  speeches,  the  incident 
itself,  and  the  conceits  and  sayings  by  which 
it  is  helped  out  are  all  remembered. 

Now  we  come  to  *  The  Faerie  Queene,'  and 
to  the  evidence  which  not  only  demolishes 
the   theory  of   a   common    authorship    for 

*  Locrine '  and  *  Selimus,^  but  proves  that 
Marlowe  must  have  written  the  latter  play. 

*  Selimua '  is  fall  of  *  The  Faerie  Qneene ' ; 
but  *  Locrine,'  so  far  as  I  have  been  able  to 
discover,  never  once  borrows  from  Spenser's 
poem.  That  is  very  strange,  for  Spenser 
tells  the  story  of  Locnne  at  some  length  in 
book  ii.  canto  x.  Beyond  that  coincidence 
I  have  not  been  able  to  find  an  v thing  in  the 
shape  of  verbal  or  other  parallel,  except  in  a 
few  cases   where    'Locrine'    borrows    from 

*  Selimus,'  The  age  of  miracles  is  ceased.  If 
the  author  of  *  Selimus  ^  were  ako  the  author 
of  *  Locrine/  why  does  be  habitually  amd 
borrowing  from  Spenser's  ji;reat  poem !  The 
answer  is  plain  i  he  is  a  different  man  from 
the  author  of  *  Selimus' — a  man  who  had 
never  read  *  The  Faerie  Queene.* 

The  first  three  books  ^  of  '  The  Faerie 
Queene'  were  published  in  1590,  the  same 
year  which  saw  the  publication  of  'Tam- 
burlaine/  But  a  portion  of  the  poem  w^as  in 
circulation  as  early  as  1588,  some  Hues  of 
book  ii  being  accurately  cited  by  Abraham 
Fraunce,  that  year,  in  nia  *  Arcadian  Rhe- 
torike/  (See  Dyce'e  note,  p.  6^  col  %  Mar- 
lowe's *  Works,*)    '  Seiimas    was  printed  in 


Locrine,'  V^  2.      l^M^  *  Jjocrine'  in  the  following  y^n    There 


9*s.vilfbi.9.i9oi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


103 


i«  an  entry  of  'Locrin©'  in  the  *  Stationery' 
Registers  *  under  date  20  July ^  1604,  but  none 
of  *Selimofl/  either  there  or  elsewhere. 

I  have  said  that  *Selinitis'  is  full  of  *  The 
Faerie  Uneene/  Here  m  an  incomplete  list 
of  words— some  of  tbero  very  rare  in  the 
literature  of  the  time— and  in  moat  cases  it 
can  be  ahown  that  they  occur  in  parallel 
passases  of  the  play  and  the  poem.  The  list 
IS  confined  to  worJs  that  occur  in  the  first 
three  books  of  *The  Faerie  ^tieene.*  I  will 
follow  the  list  wp  by  illuatrationa  :— 

Assays,  battleous,  besprent,  bless  (for 
UissX  carke,  (to)  character,  chrystaline, 
dolorous,  dre^riment^  embay,  endamaged, 
enhance^  faitour,  fantastic,  game  (=luat, 
veneryX  pushing,  gyre,  hugy,  hurtle,  hurtling, 
fewd  (=ignorantX  (to)  ma^k,  peirsant,  puis- 
nnce,  reave,  rebutted,  recomfort,  re- vast, 
minate,  smouldring,  steel-head,  stent,  sur- 
quedry,  thrillant,  tomb- black,  tronked,  un- 
e&th^  valiance,  vermeiL  w  array, 

Charles  Crawfoed. 
(T^  be  eoniinved.] 


HORACE  WALPOLE  AND  HIS  EDITORS. 

{CoMmued/rom^S,  vL  483.) 
IlTTEB  2,263  (Cunningham'g  ed.,  vol.  viii, 
fr^OlX  addressed  to  the  Hon.  H.  S,  Conway, 
•Mfinjt  printed  in  Wright's  collected  edition 
of  the  '  Letters'  (London,  1840,  vol  vi.  p.  197X 
»itfr  the  date  ** Strawberry  Hill,  Sunday, 
Aig,  27,  1783,*'  a  date  which  was  adopted  by 
Ccmuitigham,  Aug.  27,  however,  in  1783 
M  not  on  Sunday,  but  on  Wednetflay, 
Horace  Walpole  himself  states  that  the  letter 
*ii  begun  on  Sunday,  so  that  there  is  no 
QQeation  about  the  day  of  the  week : 
'Though  I  begin  ray  letter  on  and  have 
o»ted  it  Sunday,  I  recollect  that  it  inay  miss 
lou  if  jou  go  to  town  on  Tu^day,  and  the  re- 
fore  I  BhsJl  not  send  it  to  tne  ptMt  till 
to-morrow."  The  letter  was  almost  certainly 
written  in  July  and  "begun "on  the  27th  of 
tkat  month,  which  fell  on  Sunday.  Accord iijg 
lo  the  present  arrangement  of  the  letter:^ 
Bonoe  Walpole  is  represented  as  writing 
opth  to  Conway  and  to  Lady  Osaory  on 
toe  aame  day  (27  Aug,)  two  quite 
oifavut  atatements  as  to  the  visit  of  a 
ttrtain  Prince  de  Hessenstein  to  Strawberry 
flilL  To  Conway  (in  the  letter  under  dia- 
cQMion)  he  writes  :^ 

**  The  Pnoce  d'HessenAtain  has  written  to  offer 
^iTiiii — I  don^t  know  wheo.  I  have  answered 
w  Dflta,  and  endeavoured  io  Urn  it  its  meamoK  to 
Ih  ifafiitait  cen«e  I  oould,  by  propofliDg  to  give  him 

To  l^f  0»or7  (to  whom  he  hmJ  not  pre-  j 


iriously  written  since  4  Aug.)  he  says  (Cun- 
ningham's ed,,  vol,  viii.  p.  400),  "  A  Prince  de 
Hessen stein  ha**  lately  been  to  dine  here." 
The  letter  to  Conway  and  the  letter  to  Latiy 
Oasory  obviously  then  cannot  have  been 
written  on  the  same  date, 

At  the  beginning  of  the  second  portion  of 
this  letter,  dated  ** Monday  morning,"  Horace 
Walpole  writes  :— 

"As  I  was  rising  tbia  morning,  I  received  an 
expreas  from  your  daughter  [Hon.  Mrs,  Bainerl 
that  she  will  btitig  Madame  de  Gambia  and  Lftdy 
Melbourne  to  dinner  here  to-morrow." 

The  dates  of  this  letter  are  pretty  clearly 
fixed  by  a  passage  in  Wal file's  letter  to  Earl 
Harcourt  of  5  Aug.  of  this  year,  which  evi- 
dently refers  to  the  same  dinner  party. 
Writing  on  that  day,  he  says  (Cunning nam  a 
ed.,  vol.  viii.  p,  397)  :— 

**Maf3amede  Cftnibia  dined  with  me  kit  woeki 
and  who  do  vou  think  came  with  her?  Dions 
de  Pailifrn  of  the  next  rcign.  Yon  will  guesd 
who  I  mean  when  I  tell  you  fihe  was  a  little  em- 
barrussed  with  sitting  over  ag&inat  a  picture  that 
cost  m©  ri > I jre  than  t h ree  h u nd red  nh Hi in(f9.  M adame 
de  Carnbis»  who  is  not  yet  deen  in  the  Chroiiitiue 
ScftudftleuBe,   tellinf^  me  what  and  whom  she  had 

already  Hoeni  aald^  and  Vai  vu  le de ,*     I 

replioti,  without  looking  up,  *  II  eat  fort  beau/  *' 

Walpole  here  speaks  of  the  dinner  party 
(previously  mentioned  to  Conway)  as  having 
taken  place  " last  week/*  which  would  exactly 
fitTuesday^  29  July — that  is,  the  "to-morrow" 
of  the  second  halt  of  the  letter  (that  dated 
*' Monday  morning").  The  **  Sunday"  on 
which  the  first  part  was  written  would  there- 
fore be  Sunday,  27  July- 

The  above-quoted  passage  from  the  letter 
to  Conway  as  to  Mrs,  Uamer's  bringing 
Madame  de  Cambiii  and  Lady  Melbourne  to 
dinner  at  Strawberry  Hill  serves  to  reveal 
the  identity  (hitherto,  I  believe,  unknown)  of 
the  "  Diane  de  Poitiers  "  of  the  letter  to  Lord 
Harcourt  of  5  Aug.  with  Lady  Melbourne 
(Elimbeth  Milbanke,  daughter  of  Sir  Ralph 
Milbanke,  fifth  baronet,  of  Halnahy,  York- 
shire, and  wife  of  Peni.ston  Lamb,  Viscount 
Melbourne).  Lady  Melljourne,  at  this  time 
thirty  years  of  age,  was,  as  Horace  Walpole 
says  elsewhere,  ^^at  the  bead  of  the  fashion, 
or  t&n^  as  they  were  called  "  (*  Last  Journals,' 
vol.  ii,  p,  448).  Her  position  was  partly  due 
to  her  nusband^s  wealth  and  splendid  house 
in  Piccadilly,  ivhich  enabled  her  to  give 
magnificent  entertainments,  and  partly  to 
her  ]iersonal  and  mental  attractions.  Wal* 
pole's  pseudonym  for  her  was  due  to  the  fact 
that  sne  was  at  this  time  the  object  of  a 
passing  fancy  on  the  part  of  tK^  ?t\v\c^ 
of  Wales,  wno  bad  \ata\\  A\aTn\^s^\  ^\tu. 
liobiasan,and  had  not  ^et  qeftT^twc\u%N^>3^ 


104 


NOTES  AND  QXJERIE8.       [9*  s.  vn.  Fn.  9.  i»i. 


Mra.  Fitzherbert  Wraxall  id  his  *  EemiDi- 
scencea'  (e*Jl.  1884,  vol.  v.  p.  370)  writes  thus 
of  Lady  Melbourne's  brief  reign  :— 

**The  Prmce»,  =  . transferred  hia  affe«tiona  to  Lady 
Melbourne,  no  l<mi;er  in  her  final  youth  when  she 
becftme  the  object  of  bi&  ud mi  ration.  She  might, 
neverthelflsa,  well  challenge  such  a  preferencfi.  A 
com marj ding  fi^re^  e^coeeding  tho  middle  height, 
full  of  grace  and  dignity,  an  an i mated  crmntenance, 
intcUijjeiit  features,  captivating  manners  and  con- 
vertatinn  :  all  the»e,  and  many  other  attractlonstf 
eDlirened  by  cotiuetoN  niet  in  La.dy  Melbourne." 

Froio  Horace  Wal pole's  designation  of 
Lady  Melbourne  as  '*  Diane  de  Poitiers  oftht 
next  reCffn,'^  it  is  clear  that  the  dinner  at 
Strawberry  Hill  took  place  while  the  Prince 
of  Wales  wag  under  tne  influence  of  L^y 
Melbourne's  attractions.  It  will  be  noticed 
that  Madame  de  Gambia,  who  was  "  not  yet 
deep  in  the  Chronique  Scandal euse/'  men- 
tiona  among  the  persons  already  seen  by  her 
one  whose  name  h  left  blank  by  Walpole : 

'*  J^ai  vu  le de -/'  Tfiia  mysterious  per- 

sKinage  was  evidently  -^le  Prince  de  Galles." 
The  Prince  of  Wales,  then  just  upon  twenty- 
one,  might  well  be  described  as  being  **fort 
beau,"  and  he  might  equally  have  oeen  a 
trying  subject  of  conversation  in  the  pre- 
aence  of  "Diane  de  Poitiers  of  the  next 
reign." 

*^ Diane  de  Poitiers"  m  also  derfcribed  aa 
having  been  "a  little  erabarrasseiJ  with  sit- 
ting over  against  a  picture  that  ca<;t  me 
nxore  than  three  hundred  shillings."  This 
remark  is  connected  with  a  chapter  of  Horace 
Walpole*s  family  history.  In  17fiO  his  great- 
niece  Lady  Man  a  Waldegrave  (daughter  of 
the  Duchess  of  Glouce^ster  by  her  first  hus- 
band, Earl  Waldegrave)  received  a  pro- 
posal of  marriage  from  the  Earl  of  Egremont, 
one  of  the  richent  noblemen  of  the  day.  The 
match  was  publicly  announced  and  the  settle- 
ments were  prepared.  Lortl  Egreraont's 
conduct,  however,  gave  so  little  satisfaction 
to  his  intended  wife  that  she  broke  off  the 
engagement.  Horace  Walpt^le  writen  thus  to 
Mann  on  24  July,  1780  (Uunningham's  ed., 
vol.  vii.  pp*  421-2):^ 

**Imu8t  notify  the  rupture  of  our  ff rent  matvh^ 
which  I  announced  in  my  last.  Lfird  Kgremont, 
who  proves  a  mnnt  wcirthIt!S9  yniin|i^  felhm',  and  in 
as  weak  as  irre^oluie,  has  Wliaved  with  no  mudi 
oeglect  and  want  of  attentiuti,  that  Lady  Maria 
heroically  totik  the  reHolution  of  writing;  t4»  Che 
Duehofw  [of  Ulfiucenterl,  who  wa«  in  the  euuntry,  to 
deaireher  leave  liihreaK  off  the  match.  TheUuehefiM, 
who  had  diBJiked  the  conduct  of  her  future  BOii-in- 
law,  but  could  not  refu^  her  canftent  to  ah  ad  van- 
tAgeou^  a  match,  f^ladly  a^entcd  i  but  the  foolieh 
boy,  by  new  iudiacretinn^  haa  drawn  nnivemal  udium 

on  h/fUMt?If.    ^Th  injif'Anlrlv  TiTihlihhfld  ihf*  riiiitiira.  hut, 


off  the  nmtch,  and  condetnoa  him  ton  timea  mort 
than  would  have  Ifeen  the  case  if  he  had  told  the 
truth,  though  he  was  guilty  enough  in  giving  th« 
provocation." 

Walpole  states  in  hi^  'LEkst  Journals' 
(vol.  ii.  p.  448X  though  not  in  his  'Letters^' 
that  Limi/  Melbourne  was  directly  responsible 
for  the  rupture  of  Lord  Egremont's  match 
with  Lady  Maria  Waldegrave. 

Two  years  before  the  Conway  letter  (in 
1761)  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds's  grou^  of  the 
three  Ladies  Waldegrave  (in  which  Lady 
Maria  is  the  figure  represented  holding  the 
skein)  was  exhibited  at  the  Royal  Academy. 
This  picture  of  his  three  great-uieces  waa 
executed  as  a  commission  tor  Horace  Wal- 
pole, According  to  the  'Description  of 
Strawberry  Hill,'  it  hung  "  over  against  the 
chimne^^ "  in  the  "  refectory  "  at  Strawberry 
Hill.  In  this  room,  no  doubt,  Walpole  enter- 
tained his  guests  at  dinner  on  the  oci^^ion 
in  question.  Lady  Melbourne  might  well  be 
embarrassed  at  finding  herself  opposite  to 
the  portrait  of  the  lady  whom  she  had  been 
the  means  of  depriving  of  a  brilliant  match. 
It  is  thus  possible  (1)  to  assign  to  Horace 
Wal pole's  letter  t4i  Conway  its  right  data 
(27  July,  1783)  and  its  right  ^Imce  in  the 
series  oi  his  *  Letters  *  (between  ^los.  2,250  and 
2,257  in  vol.  viii,  of  Cunningham^s  ed.) ;  (2)  to 
give  the  key  to  Horace  Walpole^s  enigmatical 
oescription  uf  his  dinner  party  at  Strawlierry 
Hill  Helen  Toykbee. 

(7^0  be  c<mimuid,j 


Superstitious   Curbs   for   Diskase.— In 

Colombia  (South  America)  I  collected  the 
following  :^ 

Cure  for  leprosy,  —The  leper  must  get 
naked  inside  the  hide  of  a  freshly  killofl  oi. 

Throat  complaints  are  cured  by  a  Jt  ve  pigeoQ 
split  and  placed  on  the  thi*oat.  The  same 
application  is  made  to  the  head  for  brain 
fever. 

llheumatistn  is  beneBted  by  a  diet  of 
roast  hens  having  black  skins.  These  are 
bred  and  sold  on  purpose  for  remedies. 

Erysipela-s  is  cured  by  the  comb  of  a  black- 
skinned  hen  freshly  cut  off  and  rubbed  over 
the  place. 

Stye  in  eye.— Wax  out  of  the  hunian  ear, 
or  the  inside  of  a  common  house-fly,  placed  on 
the  navel.  Styes  are  said  to  be  caused  by 
swallowing  the  dust  frt>ra  moths*  wings.  As 
there  is  no  glass  in  the  windows,  plenty  of 
thcHe  insects  find  their  vpay  into  cupi  of 
coJfee  and  chocolate  after  dusk. 


g»  &  vn.  Fn.  9.  mi.}        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


106 


a  man  eating  a  piece  every  day)  for  the 
disease  "£1  Qallico''  (the  *' French  disease'')- 

Snakes  steeped  in  spirits  of  wine  are  good 
for  rheumatism. 

Beans,  a  particular  hard,  large,  and  shiny 
sort,  carried  in  the  pocket  keep  off  hsemor- 
rhoids.  So  does  a  sloth -skin  placed  on  the 
Mddle. 

Paerperal  fever  has  a  chance  if  a  charcoal 
fire  be  made  in  the  patient's  room,  the 
windows  being  closed,  and  incense  and 
lavender  burnt  thereon.  Ibaou^. 

[For  the  pigeon  cure  see  9*^  S.  v.  226,  343 ;  vi.  12.] 

"J'ai  T6cu."--ThLs  is  the  well-known  mot 
iA  the  Abb^  Siey^  when  asked  what  he 
bad  done  during  the  Terror.  I  believe  it 
it  generally  understood  to  mean  that  he 
tbooght  it  an  achievement  to  have  saved  his 
life.  But  is  it  not  possible  that  another  and 
perhaps  a  higher  sense  may  attach  to  the 
vords,  or  at  least  have  been  in  the  mind  of 
the  author  of  them  when  he  gave  the  witty 
rnlyt  In  Montaigne's '  Essays,'  III.  xiii.  326, 
ed.  Hachette,  1892,  we  find  the  following 
brief  dialogue:— 

"'le  n'ay  rien  f&ict  auioard'huy.'  *  Quoy  !  avez 
9om  nw  oeseu?  c'est  non  sealement  la  fonda- 
MQUQe,  maU  la  plus  illustre  de  voe  occupcUiom,' " 

TheAbb<$  would  probably  be  familiar  with  this* 
••  well  as  with  Horace's  lines,  Od.  iii.  29 : 
Ule  potens  sui 
IjBtnsqae  deget,  cui  licet  in  diem 
Dixisse  *  VixL* 

C.  Laweence  Foed,  B.A. 
Bath. 

FoisoK  IN  BEEE.-This  new  evil  recalls 
attention  to  the  obsolete ''  beer- taster."  John 
Shakspere,  father  of  our  great  dramatist, 
vas  appointed  ^  ale  conner^  at  Stratford  on 
10  April,  1557,  and  it  is  characteristic  of  him 
that  he  was  fined  for  non-attendance.  The 
office  is  Latinized  as  gustator  cerevisicBj  so  not 
specifically  a  **  barley-brew."  In  the  present 
eeotory  we  learn  tnat  the  Mayor  of  Dun- 
stable is  officially  "beer- taster"  for  that 
noted  i^aoe,  but  his  worship  declined  to 
operate,  so  an  inspector  was  instructed  to 
tike  samples,  and  to  e£fect  the  tasting  after 
doe  analysis  !  In  London  (City)  the  office  is 
linited  to  an  inspection  of  the  measures. 

A.  Hall. 

A  Remark  ABTiE  "Cbntuey"  Incident.— 
ibe  following  from  the  Manchester  Guardian 
•ems  worth  noting : — 

"Somewhere  in  the  Highlands  twins  were  bom  at 


iWaeetaog  of  thecentnries,  with  the  odd  result  (says 
mSi,  Jameift  CktuUt)  that  one  opened  its  eyes  in  the 
psiiiiuth  and  the  otlier  in  the  twentieth  oentaiy. 
Ii  li  sorely  tlie  moet  reioarluiib;^  of  fdl  'century' 


incidents.  There  are  two  men  in  England  who  will 
read  of  the  birth  of  these  century  twins  with  special 
interest— one  a  peer  of  the  realm  and  the  other  a 
member  of  the  House  of  Commons.  The  peer  owes 
his  peerage  to  the  fact  that  he  was  born  fifteen 
minutes  before  his  brother ;  the  M.  P.  missed  an 
earldom  by  beins  born  fifteen  minutes  late.  The 
peer  is  Lord  Durnam  ;  the  M.  P.  is  the  Hon.  F.  W. 
Lambton,  member  for  South-East  Durham.  Both 
were  bom  on  June  19, 1855,  the  earl  coming  into  the 
world  fifteen  minutes  before  his  brother.  Those 
fifteen  minutes  were  worth  an  earldom  and  90«U00 
acres  to  the  lucky  baby." 

W.  D.  Pink. 

Palestinian  Syriac  Interrogative.— The 
pronoun  or  adjective  ^^'^  =  "  which...  ?  "  or 
"  what...  1"— with  its  feminine  KTH— is  re- 
gistered in  the 'Thesaurus  Syriacus,'«.y.j and 
also  in  Sch  wally'8*Idioticon/p.  117.  but  neither 
authority  cites  any  plural  form  ol  this  word. 

Examples  of  its  plural  Iv^'^  may  now  be 
found  in  'Palestinian  Syriac  Texts/  ed. 
Lewis  and  Gibson  (1900),  at  p.  56  (1  Thess.  iii. 

9)  and  p.  58  (1  Thess.  iv.  2).  The  \hr\  which 
appears  in  the  Qospel  Lectionary  at  Matt.  xix. 
18  is  almost  certainly  not  the  demonstrative 
(  =  "  these"),  but  another  way  of  writing  the 
above  plural,  for  the  sense  of  the  passage 
demanas  an  interrogative  there.  £.  B. 

"  Tapping  "  and  "  Tipping."— The  historian 
of  vails  will  need  to  note  a  portion  of  the  pro- 
ceedings at  the  meeting  of  the  London 
County  Council  on  23  Nov.,  1900,  to  deal  with 
the  annual  applications  for  music  and  dancing 
licences.  A  restaurant  licence  was  opposed 
on  the  ground  that  the  waiters  were  not  paid 
a  living  wage,  and  this  is  a  report  of  what 
followea : — 

*'  Three  waiters  testified  that  emergency  waiters 
were  paid  only  2^.  &/.,  that  no  food  was  given  them, 
and  tnat  they  were  not  allowed  to  ask  for  tips. 
Mr.  Gill,  Q.C.,  asked  one  of  these  witnesses 
whether  the  management  objected  to  them  asking 
a  customer,  after  dinner,  whether  everything  had 
been  as  he  desired,  or  whether  he  wished  for  a 
toothpick.  (Laughter.)  The  witness  was  under- 
stood to  intimate  that  such  a  course  would  not  be 


quite 
distinct  from  tipping.    ( Laughter. ) " ' " 

It  is  a  distinction  which  in  practice  is 
without  a  difference,  but  it  is  well  to  have  it 
officially  explained.      Alfred  F.  Bobbins. 

Formation  of  a  PLACB-NABiE.— For  the 
la«t  three  or  four  years,  in  crossing  the  South 
Eastern  Railway  station  enclosure  at  Charing 
Cross,  I  have  heard  the  waterman  or  a  cab- 
man call  out  "  Klondyke."  I  thought  it  must 
be  the  nickname  of  some  fiidveivtvvTouv^  c»X^- 
man  who  had  been  there  and  \v«A  t^Wtxv^* 


106 


NOTES  AND  QXJERIE8.       p^  s.  vn.  Feb,  9.  i« 


At  last  I  asked  the  policeman,  who,  smiling, 
said.  "It  is  just  a  name  for  a  part  of  the 
yard  whence  the  cabs  are  most  called" — a 
sort  of  golden  preserve,  I  suppose.  They  (the 
cabmen)  have  their  right,  in  turn,  to  stand 
in  "Klondyke."  Soon  they  will  forget  the 
origin  of  the  name.  R.  B.  S. 

•Ambrose  GwiNETT,*  A  Dram  A.— Much  about 
Ambrose  Qwinett  has  already  appeared  in 
•N.  &  q,;  b^  and  8^»»  S.  See  also  the 
AthencBum,  1881,  ii.  337,  401.  I  have  a  copy 
of  the  chap-book  "The  Life  and  Adventures 
of  Ambrose  Gwinett.  London,  J.  Catnach, 
printer,  2  &  3,  Monmouth  Court,  7  Dials," 
8vo,  4  leaves,  and  yellow  cover.  There  are 
three  coarse  woodcuts,  the  first  of  which, 
roughly  coloured,  showing  him  hanging  in 
"chains"  (really  an  iron  framework),  is  re- 
produced, plain,  on  the  cover.  My  copy 
oelonged  to  Richard  Smith,  a  well-known 
Bristol  surgeon,  whose  interest  in  executions 
has  been  mentioned  in  *  N.  &  Q.,'  2"**  S.  ii. 
250.  He  had  it  bound  with  *The  Cries  of 
Blood,'  1767,  and  the  volume  contains  his 
heraldic  book-plate. 
Among  other  insertions  are  two  playbills. 

(1)  Theatre  Royal,  Bristol,  Tuesday  even- 
ing, 4  January,  1831,  "  the  new  Drama  ca]le<] 
Ambrose  Gwinett ;  or,  a  Sea-side  Story,"  fol- 
lowed by  the  musical  farce  *  Rosina '  and  the 
nautical  drama  *  Blue  Anchor.' 

'*  On  Friday,  the  celebrated  Mr.  Mathews  will  be 
at  home,  in  his  last  new  entertainment  called  the 
Comic  Annual,  and  a  new  farce  called  Before  Break- 
fast." 

The  actors  are — Gentlemen :  Burton,  Butlen 
Chew,  Chippendale,  Gardner,  C.  Jones, 
M'Keon,  Martyn,  Mason,  Murray,  Romer, 
Selby,  F.  Wilton.  Ladits :  Mrs.  Chippendale, 
Miss  Gliddon,  Miss  Honey,  Miss  Kenneth, 
Mrs.  Owen,  Miss  Romer,  Mrs.  Selby. 

(2)  Theatre,  Swansea,  Monday  evening, 
14  August,  1837  ;  the  favourite  tragedy  of 
'Brutus':  the  *  Irish  Tutor';  and  a  new 
domestic  drama, '  Ambrose  Gwinett.'  Between 
the  pieces,  several  songs,  and  a  dance.  Tickets 
of  Mr.  Elsbee  Shaw,  at  Mrs.  Penhor wood's, 
3,  Couch's  Buildings,  and  of  the  Miss&s 
Jenkins,  Wind  Street. 

The  actors  are — Gentlemen:  Chamberlain, 

Cowle,  W.  Dowton,  jun.,  Edmonds,  Grainger, 

Hughes,  Jones,  M*Mahon,  Manley,  Roberts, 

Sharpe,  Elsbee  Shaw  Master  Webster,  White, 

Would s.    Ladies :   Mrs.  and    Miss    Bartlett, 

Mrs.  Cowle,  Mrs.  Hard  wick,  Mrs.  David  Lee, 

Miss  Webster,  Mrs.  Woulds. 

Sowething   might  be  said,   I  apprehend, 

about  such  names  as  DowtOD.  Honey,  Romer, 

^Jbjr,  and  Webster.  W.  C.  B. 


"Bayard,"  Name  for  Horse.— On  13 Ji: 
1275,  Edward  I.  issued  a  mandate  to  Em< 
Bechet  to  deliver  to  Maurice  de  Credo 
the  king's  horse  Bayard,  the  king  hav 
given  the  said  horse  to  him— Pat.  Roll,  3  Ed 
m.  20  (10),  in  Deputy-Keeper's  Forty -fou 
Report,  76.  O.  O.  E 

[See  *Bay8water,*  ^  S.  xii.  405;  9*»»  S.  L  13, 
154,293;  v.  356,  441,  506.] 

"The  power  of  the  dog."— In  the  *Flor€ 
Espafiola'  of  Melchior  de  Santa  Cruz 
author  has  an  anecdote  of  Cardinal  Pe 
Gon9alez.  That  prelate  noticed  that  one 
the  priests  in  his  retinue,  a  Biscavan,  can 
a  short  swor^J  under  his  cloak.  The  cardi 
reproved  him,  and  told  him  that  it  ^ 
wrong  for  a  cleric  to  carry  arms.  The  J 
cayan  replied  that  he  earned  the  weapor 
defend  himself  if  he  were  attacked  by  a  d 
The  cardinal  said  that  in  case  he  saw  a  < 
running  at  him  he  should  begin  to  rec 
from  the  Gospel  of  John.  The  priest  ackn< 
ledged  that  tnis  was  a  good  way,  but  held 
the  dagger,  "because  there  are  some  d 
who  do  not  understand  Latin.'**  The  wi 
reply  of  the  priest  does  not  quite  reconcile 
to  tne  cardinal's  suggestion,  for  even  if 
concede  the  efficacy  of  an  evangelic  lecti 
John's  is  the  least  appropriate  of  the  Gasp 
since  it  is  the  only  one  in  which  there  is 
mention  of  the  dog.  The  fact  is  that  i 
story  was  an  old  one  when  Santa  Cruz  hei 
it,  and  it  had  been  somewhat  damaged 
transmission.  In  the  '  Laughable  Stories 
the  learned  Bar  Hebrseus,  a  curious  be 
which  has  been  translated  by  Dr.  Wa 
Budge,+  there  is  one  of  an  actor  who  hean 
man  saying  to  his  companion  :— 

**  When  thou  art  travelliue  by  night  and  woald 
that  the  dogs  should  not  molest  thee,  shout  in  th 
faces  the  Psalm  wherein  occur  the  words  'And  n 
my  only  one  from  the  mouth  of  the  dogs.'  And 
said  to  him,  *  Nay,  but  let  him  take  a  stick  also 
his  hand,  for  all  dogs  do  not  understand  the  Psali 
although  there  may  be  among  them  some  who  n 
them.    —Bar  Hebrseus,  dxviii. 

The  verse  alluded  to  is  the  curious  oi 
**  Deliver  my  soul  from  the  sword  :  i 
darling  from  the  power  of  the  dog  "  (Psa 
xxii.  20). 

This  is  the  translation  of  the  Prayer  Boc 
the  Authorized  and  the  Revised  Versioi 
Dr.  DriverJ  uses  "my  only  one"  for  "e 

*  *  Floresta  Espanola,'  por  Melchior  de  Sat 
Crux  (Bruxelles,  1614)«  p.  10.  I  have  describ 
Southey*s  copy  of  this  curious  book  (now  in  i 
possession)  in  the  Library,  vol.  x.  p.  289. 

t  *  Laughable  Stories '  of  Gregory  Bar  Hebrx 
I  London,  1899). 

t  *  The  Parallel  Psalter,'  by  Rev.  S.  R.  Drii 


9i*s.viLFMi.9.iwi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


107 


soul,"  and  explains  it  as  a  poetical  phrase 
for  '*uiy  life.  It  is  the  word  employer!  u) 
Judges  xi.  34  for  an  only  dauRhter.  That 
which  our  versions  style  *' power,"  and  for 
which  Bar  Uebrseus  substitutes  **  mouth,"  is 
literalljr  **  hand."  Hence  Dr.  Robert  Young  h 
rendenng, 

Deliver  from  the  sword  my  soal, 
From  the  i>aw  of  a  dog  mine  only  one. 

William  E.  A.  Axon. 

The  Dog  and  the  Gamekeeper.  —  Le 
Petit  Tetnps  (supplement  to  the  Paris  journal 
Le  Temps)  or  12  December  is  responsible  for 
the  following  dog  story,  which  *'  si  non  vero  e 
ben  trovato. 

An  incident  has  just  occurred  which  gives 
matter  for  thought.  M.  X.,  the  owner  of  a 
■mall  villa  in  the  environs  of  Paris,  had  a 
dog— a  Great  Dane— an  intelligent  and  faith 
fnl  animal.  M.  X.  was  very  fond  of  his  dog, 
tpd  it  was  a  blow  to  him  when,  having  sold 
his  house  in  order  to  return  to  Paris,  he  wa^ 
obliged  to  separate  fn>m  the  dog.  A  friendly 
pmekeeper  agreed  to  take  it,  but  it  followe<j 
itt)  new  master  disconsolately.  Having  been 
wed  to  live  in  a  garden,  the  dog  did  nor 
Msily  adapt  itself  to  a  different  existence. 
The  gamekeeper,  who  was  not  tender- hearted, 
grew  tired  of  feeding  an  animal  with  such  art 
appetite,  and  resolved  to  get  rid  of  it.  Ancl 
tou  is  how  he  set  to  work. 

He  fastened  a  heavy  stone  to  the  dog'd 
Deck,  put  it  on  a  boat,  and  rowed  toward.^ 
the  middle  of  the  river  Marne.  When  the 
ooftt  was  in  mid-stream  the  gamekeeper  took 
the  dog  in  his  brawny  arms  and  threw  it  into 
the  water.  The  rope,  which  was  not  a  good 
one,  broke,  and  the  animal,  after  making  a 
plonge,  came  to  the  surface.  It  swam 
towards  the  boat,  and  had  nearly  reached  it 
when  the  pitiless  man  struck  it  over  the  head 
vith  an  oar.  A  stream  of  blood  spouted 
forth  and  slightly  tinged  the  water.  The  dog 
roomed  towards  its  executioner  ;  the  river 
bank  neemed  to  it  too  far  off.  The  keeper 
became  more  furious  with  his  victim.  He 
hid  not  put  down  his  oar,  and  now  brandished 
It  like  a  windmill  to  strike  a  mortal  blow. 
But  his  violence  made  himlase  his  equilibrium, 
and  he  fell  into  the  water.  He  did  not  know 
how  to  swim,  and  would  certainly  have  been 
drowned  if  the  dog,  who  was  much  better 
than  the  man,  had  not  seized  him  by  his 
teeth  and  supported  him.  The  gamekeefwr 
«Hild  thus  lay  hold  of  the  boat,  which  the 
current  had  not  had  time  to  carry  away 
daring  the  rescue  of  the  keeper ;  and  this 
time  tne  bank  was  reached. 

This  saving  of  the  man's  life  modiBed,  as 


may  be  supposed,  the  feelings  of  the  game- 
keeper for  his  dog.  He  dressed  the  wtmnd 
macie  by  the  oar  in  the  head  of  the  poor  and 
forgiving  animal,  and  tended  it  quite  pater- 
nally. And  when  relating  the  story  he  adds 
that  only  death  shall  separate  him  from  the 
creature  to  whom  he  owes  his  life. 

J.    LORAINK  HeELIS. 


We  must  request  correspondents  deRiring  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  anil  addrensee  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct.  

Col.  Henry  Hugh  Mitchell.-  The  date 
of  the  birth  of  my  grandfather  Col.  Henry 
Hugh  Mitchell  is  given  in  the  short  account 
of  him  in  the  *D.N.B.'  as  1766(?).  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  he  was  born  9  June,  1770.  He 
was  remarkable  as  being  the  only  officer 
under  the  rank  of  general  mentioned  in  the 
Waterloo  despatch ;  and  though,  when  in 
command  of  three  regiments  on  the  right 
under  a  heavy  fire  all  day,  he  escaped  with- 
out a  scratch,  he  caught  a  severe  cold,  which 
eventually  caused  his  death.  He  entered  the 
army  as  ensign  in  the  101st  Foot,  November, 

1782,  and  was  promoted  lieutenant  14  June, 

1783,  and  served  in  India  during  that  year. 
Was  it  unusual  for  a  l>oy  at  that  period  to  enter 
the  army  at  the  early  age  of  twelve,  or  are 
there  other  instances  ?  I  have  traced  several 
of  his  brother  officers,  but.  owing  to  the 
lamentable  lack  of  dates  in  Burke's  '  Landed 
Gentry,*  &c.,  I  have  not  been  able  to  ascertain 
their  ages.  H.  S.  Vade-Walpole. 

[For  child  commissions  in  the  army  see  8***  8.  viii. 
421,  498;  ix.  70,  198,  355,  450.] 

Old  Legend. —  Can  anybody  put  me  on 
the  track  of  a  quaint  olcf  legend— French,  I 
think  ;  at  least,  I  saw  it  some  years  ago  in 
the  jR€vit€  des  Deux  -il/omfc*— somewhat  to  the 
following  effect?  A  rather  fractious  personage, 
being  in  difficulties,  invokes  some  deity  or 
Plaint  and  implores  his  aid.  The  deity  or 
saint  relieves  him  from  his  straits,  and 
furthermore  presents  him  with  a  bugle-horn, 
telling  him  that,  shouhl  he  again  at  any  time 
require  help,  he  need  only  wind  a  blast  on 
that  horn,  and  he,  the  deity  or  saint,  would 
at  once  come  to  his  support— alwaj's  provided 
that  the  fractious  i)ersonage  will  for  the 
future  live  peaceably  and  shun  all  wanton 
broils.  Emboldened  bv  this  gift  and  promise, 
but     neglectful    of    tlio    condition     thereto 


jittachen.  the  fractious  personage  very  soon 
plunges  into  fresh  quarrels  w\tu  aXV  v\ov\&  ^1 
f )eopie,  and   of   courae  la  vwj  w^n  Sxi  \wi- 


108 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9«^8.vilfeii.9,i«l 


commoDlv  hot  water.  He  then  winds  his 
horn.  The  deity  or  saint  appears ;  our  hero 
claims  his  aid,  but  his  patron  refuses  it, 
reminding  him  of  the  violated  condition  that 
his  protdgd  should  lead  a  peaceable  life  ;  and 
he  straightway,  and  very  properly,  abandons 
him  to  his  fate. 

This  is  but  an  imperfect  outline  of  the 
story;  still,  I  think  it  is  perhaps  sufficient 
to  lead  to  its  identification  by  any  person 
acquainted  with  the  legend.  I  should  be 
grateful  to  any  one  who  would  supply 
a  correct  version  of  the  tale  and  state 
where  it  occurs.  Convinced  that  it  is  a  locus 
clamcus^  I  am  a  little  ashamed  to  have  for- 
gotten where  it  is  to  be  found. 

Patrick  Maxwell. 

**  OcHiDORE."— This  word  occurs  with  the 
meaning  "shore-crab"  in  Kingsleys  'West- 
ward Ho !  \  chap.  ii.  p.  44.  I  can  find  no 
instance  of  its  occurrence  elsewhere.  I  should 
be  glad  if  any  of  your  readers  would  kindly 
tell  me  whether  "  ochidore  "  is  a  Devon  word. 
Query  etymology  ?  A.  L.  Mayhew. 

Oxford. 

"Inoculation."— In  *She  Stoops  to  Con- 
q^uer*  (I.  ii.^  Mrs.  Hardcastle  says:  "I  vow, 
since  inoculation  began  there  is  no  such 
thine  to  be  seen  as  a  plain  woman."  The  play 
was  first  acted  in  1773.  Goldsmith  died  in  1774. 
Jenner  was  at  that  time  twenty  -  1^wQ  years 
old,  and  is  stated  to  have  begun  to  think  of 
inoculation  in  1780.  His  first  experiment  on 
a  human  being  was  in  1791,  but  the  play 
speaks  of  the  system  as  an  established  and 
approved  practice.  The  discrepancy  must 
have  been  noticed  before ;  but  how  has  it 
been  accounted  for?  There  is  the  additional 
interest  that  Goldsmith  himself  was  much 
marked  by  smallpox,  which  was  a  great 
trouble  to  him  through  life.  M. 

[The  *  H.E.D.*  quotes  under  the  date  1722  from 
the  London  GazeUe,  6045/8,   "A  child    has   been 

inoculated  with  the  matter.    Five Children  have 

been  inoculated  of  the  Small  Pox."  See  also 
Havdn's  *  Dictionary  of  Dates,'  »,v.  *  Inoculation,' 
ana  *  Vaccination  before  Jenner,'  *N.  &  Q.,' 6'*»  S. 
vii.  440 ;  viu.  228,  414 ;  7^  S.  ix.  365 ;  8*»'  S.  vii.  265, 
331,  377.] 

Portrait  of  Sir  John  Thorold,  Bart., 
Lord  Mayor  op  London.— I  shall  be  glad 
to  know  if  I  can  trace  through  your  valuable 
paper  whether  there  is  in  existence  a  portrait 
or  print  of  Sir  John  Thorold,  Bart,  Lord 
Mayor  of  London  1710;  and,  if  so,  what 
would  be  the  best  means  of  obtaining  a 
copy]  R.  C.  C.  Hockley. 

OLAD8TONE  Statue.  —  I   possess   an   en- 
e^taving  by  W.  Boffe  of  a   statue  oi  Mr. 


Gladstone  by  J.  Adams-Acton.  The  figu/e 
is  in  academic  robes  and  holds  a  scroll  in  its 
left  hand.  When  was  it  marie,  and  where  is 
it  now  1  Is  it  in  bronze  or  in  marble  ?  ^^^ 
ing  f  n)m  the  features,  it  was  cast  or  sculptured 
some  time  in  the  early  seventies. 

J.  B.  McGovERN. 

Royal  Standard.  —  Will  any  one  who 
knows  inform  me  what  the  "  breaking  of  the 
royal  standard"  means?  In  the  Standard 
of  25  January  is  the  following  :  *'  His  Majesty 

shortly  afterwards  went  on  board  the 

Alberta,  the  royal  standard  being  broken  at 
the  main  as  he  stepped  on  to  the  deck." 

A.  Biddell. 


Carlyle  on  "mostly  fools."— I  should 
be  much  obliged  if  you  could  tell  me  where 
in  Carlyle's  works  or  letters  he  says  people 
are  "mostly  fools,"  or  words  very  much  to 
that  effect.  I  cannot  find  the  reference  in 
books  of  quotations.  George  Weston. 

[At  7"»  S.  iv.  276  it  was  shown  that  Carlyle  uses 
the  phrase  "twenty-seven  millions,  mostly  fools," 
in  Nos.  V.  and  VL  of  the  *  Latter-Day  Pamphlets.'] 

SuwARROPF  AND  Massbna.— I  shall  be  much 
obliged  if,  for  a  literary  purpose,  you  will 
kindly  tell  me  where  the  following  passage  is 
to  be  met  with  :— 

"During  the  armistice  following  the  batUe  of 
Zurich,  Frince  Suwarroff  and  General  Maaeioa 
spent  several  days  in  conversation  in  the  Italian 
language.  On  one  such  occasion  the  Russian 
general,  alluding  to  certain  confiscations  of  art 
treasures  which  had  been  sent  to  France,  concloded 
by  saying,  *  Tutti  Francesi  sono  ladroni ! '  '  Oh,' 
exclaimed  Massbna,  *  tutti?'  *  Tutti,  no  forse,' 
replied  Suwarroff,  smiling;  'tutti,  no,  ma  buona 
parte  [Buonaparte].' " 

Korsakoff  was  defeated  by  Massbna  on 
25  September,  1799,  and  Suwarroff  only 
appeared  later  on  the  scene.  I  cannot 
trace  an  armistice  after  the  battle  of  Zurich. 
The  episode  quoted  by  me  is  said  to  be  found 
in  Scott's  *  Life  of  Napoleon.'  I  cannot  trace 
it  there,  and  no  index  exists. 

J.  Macbeth  Forbes. 
5,  Gluny  Place,  Edinburgh. 

*MucH  Ado  about  Nothing.'— Can  any 
reader  of  *  N.  ds  Q.'  oblige  me  with  the  refer^ 
ence  where  a  line  of  *Much  Ado  about 
Nothing '  is  quoted,  "  If  her  breath  were  as 
terrible,"  &c.,  with  a  reference  to  the  *Pro- 
tesilaus  *  of  Anaxand rides  ?    I  want  the  con- 

I  tributor's  name,  but  have  failed  to  find  the 
piassage  in  the  index  of  *'  Shakespeare  Cri- 

'  ticisras.'  W.  Theobald. 

Budleigh  Salterton. 

l^We  fail  to  find  such  referenoe.  There  is  a  n&^ 
on  tViQ  \iii<ft  vii^iaAii«n.'«  *  Varioram  Shakeqieara.'] 


«*&viLF«B.9.i90i.)        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


109 


*Lasca/— Can  any  one  tell  me  where  I 
may  obtain  an  American  poem  called  (I 
believe)  *Lasca'?  It  is  a  tale  of  the  Wild 
West,  and  relates  how,  in  a  stampede  of  cattle 
across  the  plains,  a  Mexican  girl  saves  the 
life  of  her  lover  by  throwing  herself  on  his 
body  when  the  horse  on  which  they  are  both 
riding  stambles  and  the  cattle  rush  over 
ony  and  riders.  The  girl,  of  course,  is 
illed.  T.  Z. 


To 


Mrs.  Mary  Anne  Clarke.  —  I  shall  be 
obliged  if  you  can  give  me  any  information 
concerning  the  above-named  lady— as  to  her 
date  of  birth,  maiden  name,  date  of  marriage 
and  death.  She  lived  in  tne  reign  of  King 
Geoige'IIL,  I  know,  and  was  intimate  with 
the  king's  second  son,  the  Duke  of  York. 
One  of  the  heralds  of  the  College  of  Arms 
thinks  the  whole  matter  relating  to  her  was 
threshed  out  in  your  pap)er. 

S.  B.  TUDBALL. 
The  Queen,  Bath  Road,  Bouraemouth. 
[See  1*  S.  iv.  398,  493:  4«»»  S.  xi.  484 ;  xii.  454 
©*  8.  xL  308,  373 ;  8»^  S.  vii.  408.   See  also  *  D.N.B.'] 

Edmund  Craven  Colman  was  admitted  to 
Westminster  School  on  18  July,  1812.  I 
should  be  glad  to  receive  any  information 
about  him.  G.  F.  R.  B. 

Butcher. — Thomas  Butcher  was  admitted 
to  Westminster  School  on  15  January,  1776, 
and  James  Qunniss  Butcher  on  26  May.  1780. 
Oan  any  correspondent  of  *N.  «&  Q.^  give 
oie  particulars  concerning  them  ? 

a  F.  R.  B. 

Currency   before  Coinage.— That  ^reat 

monetary  authority  Lord  Avebury    writes  : 

^  The  banking  schemes  of  ancient  E^ypt  were 

in  copper,  circulated  by  weight."    There  was 

DO  coinage,  so   some    undefined  weight  of 

copper  was  the  unit  of  barter.     Well  and 

good ;  but  it  is  difficult  to  reconcile  this  with 

the  conclusions  of  Birch  and  Wilkinson,  for 

the  latter  writes  of  "  the  ordinary  scales  for 

wdghing  the  rines  of  gold  and  silver  that 

wrved  for  money.      We  are  all  familiar  with 

the  graphic   scenes    portraying  the  actual 

opemion  thus  definedT.    Of  course,  the  pro- 

porUon  of  size  is  not  evident :  still  the  talent 

u  reputed  to  have  consisted  ot  gold.   Possibly 

copper  was  utilized  for  the  construction  of 

^eights.    Can  this  be  explained  ? 

A.  Hall. 

Shakebpsarb's  Letters.— I  possess  a  book, 
J^  338  pages,  which  has  a  title-page  as 
follows  :— 

J^  Tour  in  QuMt  of  Genealogy,  through  several  / 
nMiof  WaloB.  SomenetsbiiB,  and  Wiltabire,  id  a  / 


Series  of  Letters  to  a  Friend  in  Dublin,  interspersed 
with  a  Dtisciipiion  of  ^luuthead  and  tSi>ouehuiige, 
together  with  Various  Anecdotes  and  Curious  Frag- 
ments from  a  Manuscript  Collection  ascribed  to 
8bake8()eare,  by  a  Barrister.  Loudon,  published  by 
iSherwood,  Neely,  and    Jones,   Paternoster   Row. 

isn." 

The  following  is  taken  from  p.  29  :— 

"  On  our  return  from  the  morning's  ramble,  I 
was  tempted  to  enter  an  auction  room,  where, 
amongst  other  articles,  books  were  selling,  in  the 
Catalogue  said  to  have  belonged  to  a  i>er8on  lately 
dead,  who  had  left,  as  1  was  informed,  very  little 
more  to  pay  for  his  lodgings,  which  he  had  occupied 
for  three  months  only.  He  was  a  stranger,  had 
something  eccentric  and  mysterious  about  him, 
passed  on  for  an  Irishman,  but  was  suspected  to 
have  been  one  from  North  Wales.  I  bought  two  or 
three  printed  books,  and  one  manuscript  quarto 
volume,  neatly  written,  importing  to  be  verses  and 
letters  that  passed  between  Shakespeare  and  Anne 
Hathaway  whom  he  married,  as  well  as  letters  to 
and  from  him  and  others,  with  a  curious  journal  of 
Shakespeare,  an  account  of  many  of  his  plays,  and 
memoirs  of  his  life  by  himself,  &c.  By  the  account 
at  the  beginning,  it  appears  to  have  been  copied 
from  an  old  manuscript  in  the  hand-writing  of  Mrs. 
Shakespeare^which  was  so  damaged  when  discovered 
at  a  house  of  a  gentleman  in  Wales,  whose  ancestor 
had  married  one  of  the  Hathaways,  that  to  rescue 
it  from  oblivion  a  process  was  made  use  of  bv  which 
the  original  was  sacrificed  to  the  transcript. 

If  genuine  the  extracts  are  very  curious  and 
interesting.  What  is  known  concerning  this 
book,  and  what  opinions  have  been  expressed 
as  to  its  authenticity  ?  Also  can  any  of  your 
readers  describe  the  process  above  referred 
to  by  which  the  **  original  was  sacrificed  to 
the  transcript "  ?  Has  the  whole  manuscript 
ever  been  published  ?  T.  Turner. 

Norwich. 

[The  work  is  by  Richard  Fenton,  for  whom  see 
*Dict.  Nat.  Biog.'  It  is  a  humorous  production, 
and  may  be  classed  with  the  Ireland  forgeries.  See 
*N.  &  Q.,'  3^S.  ii.  331.  See  also  1-*  S.  viii.  190; 
6»»»  S.  V.  279,  339 ;  OeiU.  Mag.,  xci.  ii.  644 ;  Halkett 
and  Lain^'s  *  Dictionary  of  Anonymous  Literature.' 
Fenton,  1/46-1821,  was  known  to  Goldsmith,  John- 
son, Garrick,  and,  in  later  yeats,  to  W.  Lisle  Bowles 
and  Sir  Richard  Colt  Hoare.] 

"Time  was  made  for  slaves."— A  writer 
in  the  Belgian  TtmeSy  referring  to  the  clocks 
at  Antwerp,  says  that  there  is  inscribed  on 
one  of  them,  "  Time  was  made  for  slaves." 
Where  can  this  inscription  be  seen,  and  what 
is  the  origin  of  the  saying  ? 

Dudley  Walton. 

[The  saying  is  first  traced  in  Buckstone's  bur- 
lesque 'Billy  Taylor,'  produced  at  the  Adelphi 
about  1830.    See  6'^  S.  ix.  78.] 

Marylebone  Cemetery.  —  Lysons,  in  his 
'Environs  of  London,'  vol.  iii.  p.  253,  men- 
tions as  standing  in  MaT^\eboii^V2.^vxi^\«r5  \)ck^ 
tomb  of  Capt.  ThomaaButW  ^\^'«\vq^\^^\. 


110 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9*  s.  vil  fo.  9.  iwi. 


Portland  Street  in  1769,  and  **  wlios©  daughter 
Mary  married  James  Winder"  in  this  tomb 
still  in  existence,  or  is  there  any  lengthier 
record  of  its  inacriptiun  1  Any  information 
which  might  lead  to  the  identification  of  this 
Thomas  Butler,  who  took  the  name  of  Cole 
without  royal  licence,  will  be  valuable. 

H.  M.  Batsoi^. 
Hoe  B^Dham.  Newbury, 

Henry  Vt I.— Wanted  a  history  of  thiu  king 
and  hia  followers  before  he  ascended  the 
throne  of  England,  K  E.  Cope. 

"Clubbinq  the  battalion/'— What  ia  the 
earliest  instance  of  this  phrase,  meaning  a 
bungled  movement  on  parade— getting  the 
men  mixed!  'Advice  to  Officers,' 1782,  has 
the  following  :— 

**  A  good  adjutant  should  he  able  lo  pHy  aa  matiT 
tncks  with  a  regiment,  an  Hre^liiw  eaiti  with  a  p&cK 
of  oardn.  There  is  one  in  particular  that  I  would 
recommend,  namely,  that  of  dispersinj^  and  falling 
in  again  by  the  coloura ;  whlob  you  will  find  eit- 
tremely  useful  wheneTer  you  contrive  to  oluh,  or 
otherwiae  to  ooufodo,  the  battalioo/' 

The  'Oxford  English  Dictionary'  giveji 
only  a  reference  to  a  speech  in  Parliament  by 
Mr.  Windham  in  1806;  iu  which  be  alluded 
to  the  phrase  as  an  expression  well  known  in 
the  army.  W,  S. 

Authors  of  Quotations  Wanted.— 

And  BDAtohingi   as  the^r  [#e.  the  yearsj  go,  whole 
f  ragmen  to  of  our  being. 

A.   O.   PRrOKAHD. 


Ubi  liber tai,  ibi  patria. 


Luck. 


%i$iitu 


LEGHORN, 
(9^  8.  vii.  47.) 
H.  O.  H.  doubts  the  received  opinion  that 
Livorno  has  been  corrupted  into  Leghorn  by 
English  sailors.    In  favour  of  the  accepted 
view  it  may  be  stated  that  the  forni  Leghorn 
is    not    French,   (German,    or    Italian,   but 
exclusively    English;   also  that  sailors   are 
especially    ^rone    to   make   foreign    names 
intelligible  in  their  own  language— in  fact» 
to  originate   folk^tymoloffiea.     A   few   in- 
stances may  be  given.    Thus  the  old  Greek 
name  of  Euripu^  which  became  Nevripo^  the 
narrow  channel  betw^n  the  island  and  the 
mainland,  was  assimilated  by  Italian  sailors 
into  Negroponte,  the  "black  bridge,"  which 
has  been  extended  to  be  the  modern  d&sig- 
rmlion  of  the  island   of  Euboea.     Atise  des 
Chasmn,  the  "  BAy  of  Afosquiloea,"  has  been 
turned  b^  Easlkh  milora  into  Nancy  Couains 


Bay.  They  have  also  changed  l-'jung- 
S41ang,  the  Malay  name  of  an  island  off  the 
Malay  Peninsula,  which  means  "Salang  head- 
land, into  Junk- Ceylon,  converting  the 
meaningless  vocables  into  syllables  not 
wholly  unfamiliar.  This  is  much  the  same 
as  h&H  occurred  in  the  case  of  Livorno.  In 
like  manner  As  Deaiertas,  the  appropriate 
Portuguese  name  of  some  small  uninhabited 
isles  near  Madeira,  has  been  corrupted  into 
The  Deserters  by  English  sailors,  who  have 
also  turned  Rio  d'Angra^  the  "river  of  the 
bay,"  in  West  Africa,  into  Danger  River— a 
very  appropriate  name.  Mombaim,  the  name 
of  a  temple  of  Devi,  the  great  mother,  was 
turned  by  the  Portuguese  into  the  more 
intelligible  sound  Rombaini,  and  the  English 
in  turn  made  it  into  Bombay,  Galla^  "the 
stone/'  the  Singalese  name  of  a  rocky  cape  in 
Ceylon,  was  made  by  the  Portuguese  into 
Point  de  Galle,  the  "cock  cape,  and  the 
town  adopted  a  cock  as  its  crest.  By  the 
change  of  Setubal  into  St.  Ubes  English 
sailors  have  canonized  a  new  saint,  and  have 
given  a  local  habitation  to  an  old  one  by 
changing  Hagenes,  the  Norae  name  of  one 
of  the  Scilly  Isles,  into  St.  Agnes.  Another 
Norse  name,  drtguls  eg^  the  **isle  of  the  strait/' 
afterwards  became  Anglesey,  the  "isle  of  the 
Angles,"  which  it  never  was.  The  Welsh 
name  Aber-maw,  the  **  town  at  the  mouth  of 
the  Maw,*'  was  made  intelligible  to  English 
eai-s  bv  being  converted  into  Barmouth  ;  and 
a  well-known  case  is  that  of  Burgh  Walter. 
so  called  because  it  was  a  castle  of  Walter  or 
Douay,  which,  when  the  bridge  was  built 
over  the  Parret^  became  Bridgewater.  Less 
familiar,  perhaps,  is  the  case  ol  Martin  Win- 
gaarcl,  a  Dutch  sailor,  whose  name,  given  by 
Adrian  Block  to  an  island  off  the  coast  of 
Massachusetts,  was  afterwards  turned  by 
English  oodfisners  into  Martha's  Vineyard. 

laAAC  Tayloe* 
This  Is  certainly  not  a  nautical  corruption^ 
Not  only  is  the  old  French  name  Ligouroe, 
but  Ligoroo  formerly  disputed  the  apellinK 
with  Livorno  in  Italian, as  Ligumusdid  with 
Li  burn  us  or  Li  barn  um  in  Latin.  I  find  the 
following  three  items  in  *  II  Perfetto  Dittio- 
nario  '(Ttalian  and  Latin),  Venice,  16^  i  P.  260, 
**Ligorno,  porto   di  Toscana :    Libumum''; 

£594}  *'  Liburnum :  Naue  leggiera,  & 
igomo " ;  p*  595,  "  Ligurnus.  portus : 
Liuorno,  nor  to."  (8ee  also  *  Diet  de  TrevoujL,' 
Hofmanns  *  Lexicon  Universale,*  Cluvier'a 
*  In  trod,  in  Univ.  Geoeraphiam,*  and  Vene- 
roni*s  'Diet.  Ital.  et  Franc.')  We  have  a 
familiar  example  of  the  I  ike  cun^tonantai 
mutation  in  the  lt6,hB,n  pfir^oh ;  and  as  to  the 
epenth^itic  B^^vtoA^  Qur  ancestors  had  a  p^^ 


»»8.viLF«.9.i9oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Ill 


vokiDK  habit  of  intruding  it  where  it  was  nt>t 
want^  ;  *'  Chonamoda  dicebanfe,"  &c.  Here, 
however,  tber@  is  no  question  of  pronuaeia- 
tion,  as  in  Catullus'!}  epigram;  but  in  this 
conoexion  I  take  occasion  to  ob^ierve  that 
the  aoceutaation  i  have  been  used  to  all  my 
life  jft  Leghorn'— that  of  the  etymology— not 
Leg'horn^  which  aggravates  the  corruption, 

F.  Adams. 
H.  G,  H.  may  be  glad  to  know  of  a  note  of 
mine  on  thij*  subject,  9*^  S.  iii.  484.  After 
writing  it  I  found  that  the  late  Alex.  J.  Ellis 
had  treated  the  matter  moat  exhaaativelj  in 
his  gre^t  work  the  '  Hii^tory  of  Early  English 
Pronunciation/  1869.  He  quotes  the  same 
iuthority  aa  I  did,  Rear- Admiral  Smyth,  to 
iho«'  that  the  English  form  of  this  name  was 
deritred  from  Greek  and  Italian  spellings  of 
the  tjixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries: 
Greek  Legorooy  Italian  Ligorno,  &c. 

J.  Platt,  Jun. 

POKM  BY  THB    LATE  Dr.   E.   HaTCH    (9^  S. 

ni  29X— The  line 

8^nU  of  the  mwris  and  busy  BtreeU 
is  found  in  a  poem  called  *A11  Saints/ 
printed  in  a  collection  of  aacred  poems 
«atiUed  'Towards  Fields  of  Light,'  by  the 
Hw.  Edwin  Hatch,  D.D.,  published  by 
nodder  4  S  tough  ton,  1890,  p.  64. 

A.  L.  Mayhbw. 

**LNscjRftKCTioK"  (9^  S.  vii.  66),— Coraman- 
[Wot  Weil  informs  us  that  Frederick  11,  writes 
ij^ French  of  *'lea  inaurg^s  hong;roia"  for 
m  general  rising  ol  Hungary  on  the  side  of 
toe  Crown*  Editor, 

Maboar^t  of  Bourbon  {B'^  S.  vi.  289,  397i 
^J.— Mboah  will  doubtless  have  noticed 
the  mistake  ante,  p.  55,  At  that  place  the 
N«ding  ghould  read  Bourbon^  not  "Bavaria," 
*ith  referencea  as  above.         U.  S,  Ward. 

HoisBa  WITH  Four  White  Stockings  Toll- 
fWi  (9^  S.  vi,  607)."Your  eonmpondent's 
<|ttery  ha^  suggestefJ  reference  to  some  notes 
™*le  for  me  many  vears  since  in  India  by 
(Apt,  W,  Lee  regard  in  K  the  native  view  of 
Jirlra  on  horseif.  I  find  that  the  pinch 
*jj*ai^  or  horse  with  five  white  points,  a 
*nite  face  and  four  white  stockings,  the  sort 
™  liOfiB  good  for  a  circua,  is  highly  prised  in 

The  following  notes  on  the  propitious 
*jd  Qnpropitiou)}  marks  may  be  of  interest, 
*n€w  go  very  far,  in  the  native  mind,  in  the 
taction  of  a  horse  j  and  at  a  fair  a  European, 
voo  k)oks  to  other  points,  may  often  pick  up 
290od  horae  cheap,  whicn  no  native  will  bid  ) 
far  OQ  aoooviit  of  its  unlucky  nuwkinga,  / 


One  of  the  niosfc  important  i«  the  feather, 
or  curl,  to  be  found  on  the  aide  of  a  horse's 
neck  near  the  mane,  sometimes  on  one  side, 
sometimes  on  the  other.  If  thia,  the  khaumri^ 
points  forwards,  /.tf.,  towarda  tlie  head,  thia  is 
a  horse  to  buy.  But  a  ffiiather  pointing  to- 
wards the  tail  is  a  mmpan^  or  female  snake, 
and  this  constitutes  abi>ut  aa  bad  an  aV^,  or 
blemish,  e^  a  horae  can  posaeaa, 

A  forward  curl  on  one  side  cancels  a  sawwan 
on  the  other,  and  tl^e  Uorae  will  do.  Two 
forward  curls,  one  on  each  side,  send  up  the 
value  hugely,  whOst  no  native  will  think  of 
buying  a  horse  which  has  developed  two 
6amp(ing. 

Of  all  the  propitious  markinga^  the  deo- 
kuntA  ranks  the  highest.  Thii*  is  a  curl 
sometiraea  found  at  the  bottom  of  the  throat, 
near  the  chest.  If  thin  "god4ike  throat" 
mark  exists,  it  cancek  most  of  the  other 
blemishes,  even  a  couple  of  mmpan^. 

The  most  aerioua  of  all  blemishes  is  the 
sij/f$k  talu,  or  black  ronf  to  the  mouth,  and 
with  this  even  tlie  deo-kunth  will  hardly  help 
the  horse  through. 

Another  fatal  ai^  is  a  small  star  on 
the  forehead  of  the  horae.  Its  fatality 
depends  on  whether  it  is  small  enough  to  be 
covered  h^  the  ball  of  a  man's  thumb.  If 
it  is  of  fair  tize  and  cannot  be  so  covered, 
it  has  little  evil  significance;  but  if  it  is 
diminutive,  the  horse  is  almost  valueless  for 
the  native  market. 

Colours  count  for  something.  In  Arabs^  a 
blue  grey,  which  as  time  goes  on  gets  bleached 
white,  ranks  high&^t ;  then  bay  with  black 
points.  Chestnut  comes  last,  horses  of  this 
colour  being  generally  supposed  to  be  tiresome 
and  vicious, 

J,  H.  RivettCabnac,  Colonel. 
Soh]o$»  Wildeck, 

The  following  well-known  aaylngs  seem  to 
be  against  rather  than  in  favour  of  a  horse 
with  four  white  stockings  : — 

Quo  white  leg,  buy  a  home  ; 
Two  white  lega,  try  a  horae  ; 
Three  white  k^^,  look  about  him  ; 
Four  while  lega^  do  witbout  him. 

Four  white  legs,  keep  him  not  a  day  ; 
Three  white  leg9»  send  him  aoon  away  * 
Two  white  legs,  sell  him  to  your  friend  ; 
One  whit«  teg^  kee^  hin)  to  hia  end, 

Stapleton  Mabtik. 
The  Fira,  Norton,  Worcester. 

According  to  the  following  passage  from 
*Li  CarretiiV  by  Fredt'ric  Mistral,  the  Pro- 
vencal poet,  the  freetlom  was  not  only  of  tolla, 
but  of  the  rule  of  the  road  :— 

"PAr  la  r^lo  dou  tnn,  Vv/xfe  \v^tcv«iv%  mw  n\^\ 
usage,  qu'^ro  res^teta  de  iout\\  \ou  ^^tt^XN.^  ^"qa 


112 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  .     i«»8.vilfbb.9,i9ol 


»oun  davanB  avi^  li 


pM  bl»nc,  one  daval^Bo 
O  que  niaunt^e«,  ^vi^  lou  ilre,  par^iH,  de  i>^  ae  leva 
dou  triD-  E  d'aqui  lou  pFouv^rbi :  'Quau  v^  li  qu&tre 

**  By  the  ru.U  of  the  nM^d  there  w&g  Devertheleaa 
ftn  old  custom  which  waa  reBjjeeted  by  alh  the  carter 
who«e  leader  had  four  whit©  stocltingB*  whether 
going  downhill  or  ut>hiU»  had  the  right,  it  apiie»r», 
not  to  leave  the  road  [that  ia  the  narct^w  pavedT  jiart, 
when  Ihtj  rest  wa«  in  a  bail  atate].  And  thence  the 
pruverb  :  *  Who  haa  four  white  feet  can/  it  is  eaidj 
*  pass  everywhere/ " 

I  hap©  light  will  be  thrown  on  the  arigiti  of 
this  privibge  to  four  white  feet  The  old 
catchy  "  Why  does  a  piebald  horae  not  pay 
toll  r  seema  to  «how  tnat  it  was  oot  peculiar 
to  France.  Ebwaeu  Nicholson* 

1,  Huskieaan  Street,  LiverpooL 

The  Acacia  in  Fits  esc  asobtry  (9*^  S,  vii,  9). 
—The  **  several  Free  masons  "  who  have  been 
appealed  to  by  Mr-  Normak  must  have  been 
iingularly  unlearned  in  the  traditional  lore 
of  the  ancient  order  not  to  have  been  able  to 
enlighten  biro,  1  am  betraying  no  secret  as 
a  Past  Master  of  thirty -five  years'  standing 
in  generally  informing  the  uninitiated  that 
it  is  repulad  to  recall  a  tragedy  ;  it  signifies 
a  remote,  unknown,  and  liable  bo  be  forgotten 
site.  To  the  vastly  preponderating  majority 
of  the  "  brethren  or  tne  mystic  tie  "  the  worda 
in  the  ritual,  *'  and  having  planted  a  sprig  of 
acacia  to  mark  the  spot,'"  will  recur  as  an  all- 
significant  r^uion  why  that  particular  shrub 
or  tree  should  auggeat  aiisociation  with 
funereal  rites.  Gnohok, 

Temple. 

According  to  Folkard  ('Plant  Lore*)  the 
acacia  used  oy  Freemasons  is  not  a  true  acacia, 
but  MMniti  pseudacad^  or  American  locust 
tree*  The  practice  of  dropping  twigs  of  this 
tree  on  the  eoflins  of  the  brethren  seems  to 
h a V©  origi  I lated  i n  America.  Th e  A e^ieta  ieyai 
is  Imputed  to  have  yielded  the  shittim  wood 
of  Scripture,  which  waa  much  used  in  the 
building  of  the  Ark.  Hence,  perhaps,  the 
reverence  Freemaijons  pay  to  the  acacia 
generally*  G.  C*  B. 

I    SU| 

male^  ^  _..^   ._ 

Free  and  Accepted  Masons,  when  the  master 
of  his  lodge  will,  if  a  competent  Ma»on,  in- 
struct him  in  the  meaning  of  that  and  other 
symbols  used  in  Freemasonry.  In  th©  mean- 
tira©  consult  *N.  k  Q./  5^**  S,  i*  57,  197,  316, 
457  ;  ii*  157  J  V.  276 ;  S*  S.  i.  433,  524. 

Basil  A.  Cochrane. 

Major  Wiluams's  Voyagb  to  Can  aba  in 
1776  (3^8,  xiL  402;  9^^  S.  i.  54,  89),^For  tlie 


suggest  that  your  correspondent,   if  a 
B,  should  join  the  Ancient  Fraternity  of 


'  N.  &.  <^.y  I  Fihould  like  to  correct  an  error 
concerning  Major  Williams  occurring  at  the 
last  rpferenc©.  Following  the  interesting 
note  signed  li.  B.  B.,  8^^'  S.  xii,  40%  there 
appears  in  this  number  a  statement  by 
F.  A*  W,  relating  to  th©  voyage  of  the 
Charming  Nancy  to  Canada  in  1776,  with 
a  body  of  artillery  on  boaixi  under  the  com- 
mand of  a  certain  Major  Williams*  The 
name  of  this  otiicer  was  not  Edward,  as 
aUted  by  F,  A.  W.,  but  Griffith  Williams. 
Some  account  of  him  is  to  be  found  in 
Hadden's  *  Journal  kept  on  the  Campaign,* 
and  a  few  more  details  may  be  given  here. 
He  was  an  elder  brother  of  George  Williams, 
chief  mag iiit rate  of  Kewfoiindland,  who 
married  Mario  Munier,  of  a  French  refugee 
family.  Thi.s  George  and  his  wife  were  the 
Erandparents  of  the  late  Sir  Monier  Monier 
Williams,  and  one  of  their  sons,  George  also 
by  nam  ©J  accompanied  Major  Griffith  Wil  Hams 
to  America  on  this  voyage  in  t776,  although 
he  waa  at  th©  time  only  eleven  years  of  age. 
In  the  year  following,  at  the  capitulation  at 
iSaratoga,  it  was  this  small  boy  who  carried 
the  flag  of  truce  to  the  camp  of  the  victorious 
party.  H©  was  afterwards  a  colonel  in  the 
20th  Regiment  and  M.P.  for  Ashton-under- 
Lyne,  and  died  in  1850.  His  uncle,  Griffith 
Williams,  died  Colonel  Commandant  of  Wool- 
wich in  1790,  leaving  no  male  Lssue. 

H,  M*  Batson. 
Hoe  Beuham,  Newbury. 

''  Churmagdes  "  (B^  S.  vii.  28).— llie  dialect 
form  of  cAare  or  char  being  ckoor  in  Hamp- 
shire (in  the  I«Ie  of  Wight  cAur)^  as  in  the 
counties  west  thereof,  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  churfnaf/des  were  '*$uch  yonge  Wemen 

..., ..called    Charr  Wemen. as  are  in  noe 

service."     See   *H.E.U.^   s,v,    'Charwonaan/ 
Shakespeare  refers  to  this  type  as 

The  maid  that  milka 
And  does  t  he  meanest  chares* 

*  Antony  and  Cleopatra,*  IV,  xv.  75. 

Charmaidi  however,  is  not  in  th©  *  H.E.D.' 

F.  Abams. 

The  Area  of  Churchy asd®  (9^»*  S.  vii.  9X— 
Som«  light  is  thrown  on  th©  Question  of  the 
origin  of  ancient  churchyards  oy  that  which 
belongs  to  the  extensive  wold  parish  of 
Kirby  Grindalythe  in  the  East  Riding  of 
Yorkshire.  The  churchyard  is  large— amply 
sufficient  for  the  requirements  of  the  five  or 
six  thorjMB  and  tt^s^  th©  townships  which  the 

Carish  contains,  and  whose  needs  are  served 
y  th©  church  and  churchyard  at  Kirby, 
whicli  is  the  most  central,  but  not  the  largeat 
or  most  populous  of  them.    The  DotioeaUe 


s&km   0f   enaarmg  an   acoumte    record    inUhm^  at  lL\rb^  GtiMalythe,  which  loiJEesit 


9*  s.  viL  FBI.  9. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


113 


ao  iDstractive,  is  that  outside  the  wall  of  the 
extensive  churchyard  there  is  evidence,  chiefly 
to  the  west^  of  ancient  interments.  To  explain 
them  two  theories  may  be  advanced.  One 
18  that  the  church  vara  was  originally  un- 
enclosed, burials  taking  place  anywhere  on 
the  wold  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  church, 
only  the  portion  more  densely  buried  in  being 
afterwards  walled  round.  The  other  and 
more  probable  theory  is  that,  before  the 
erection  of  the  church,  or  even  p)erhaps  in 

Ere -Christian  times,  this  central  spot  in 
^nndalythe,  the  ^'district  of  the  ffreen  dale,*' 
was  conveniently  selected  as  the  place  for  the 
interments  of  the  people  of  the  neighbour- 
hood. Here,  where  the  graves  were  thickest, 
»  preaching  cross  was  first  erected,  and  after- 
wards, at  some  period  before  the  Norman 
Conquest,  the  earliest  church  was  built. 

The  churchyard  at  Kirby  Grindalythe  will, 
I  think,  help  to  throw  light  on  the  formation 
of  some  of  the  oldest  churchyards,  those  of 
later  origin  being  perhaps  explicable  by  Mb. 
Qkm8H*8  theory.  Other  churchyards  with 
uterments  beyond  the  walls  may  exist  else- 
'ttere.  Isaac  Taylor. 

It  would  appear  that  certainly  so  early 
tt  about  A.D.  760  spaces  of  ground  ad- 
)wning  churches  were  enclosed  and  conse- 
cratedfor  burial,  and  by  a  canon  of  the  ninth 
century  every  grave  was  to  be  esteemed 
«cred,  to  be  adorned  with  the  sign  of  the 
crojB,  and  to  be  preserve  from  trespass 
Md  violation  by  dogs  and  cattle.  jVSiny 
Jurehyapds  have  a  historv  far  older  than 
toe  churches  which  stand  in  them,  being 
wigiDally  places  appropriated  to  religious 
jwemblies,  divine  service  being  performed 
were,  until  at  length  the  church  was  added 
for  greater  honour  and  convenience.  It  has 
oewi  noted  as  a  curious  fact  that  in  a  large 
n^jority  of  cases  the  churchyards  are  on  the 
north  side  of  the  church  and  on  the  north 
ode  of  the  road  leading  to  them.  There  is  a 
f'Jpratition  amongst  many  old-fashioned 
tolk  that  the  north  side  of  the  churchyard  is 
^  sacred  than  the  rest  of  the  consecrated 

Qnd.  **To  be  buried  there,"  wrote 
randus,  the  great  fourteenth  -  century 
gpcledastic,  '*is,  in  the  language  of  the 
wteni  counties,  to  be  buried  out  of  sanc- 
wy."  Hence  the  position  was  largely 
•Ppropriated  to  the  graves  of  suicides,  un- 
wp^zed  persons,  and  excommunicates. 

.The  Emperor  Justinian  made  a  law  (pos- 
mj  legalizing  an  existing  custom) 

IjUt  none  thall  preaame  to  erect  a  church  until 
gywshap  of  the  diooeae  hath  first  been  acquainted 
■mwito,  and  shall  oome  and  lift  up  hia  hands  to 


and  erect  the  symbol  of  our  salvation,  the  venerable 
and  truly  precious  rood."— Sir  R.  Philliniore,  *  Eccl. 
Law/  p.  1761. 

The  service,  therefore,  for  the  consecration  of  a 
churchyard  prior  to  tne  actual  church  erection 
in  volves  theexistenceof  across,  possibly  simply 
of  wood.  An  Irish  canon  of  the  eighth  century 
published  by  D'Archery  seems  more  explicit, 
tor  it  directs  a  cross  to  be  set  up  wherever 
there  is  consecrated  ground  to  mark  the 
limits  as  well  as  the  sanctity  of  the  place. 
One  of  the  constitutions  of  William  of  blois. 
Bishop  of  Winchester,  made  in  1299,  says : 
"  Let  a  handsome  cross  be  erected  in  every 
churchyard,  to  which  the  procession  shall  be 
made  on  Palm  Sunday."  For  more  interesting 
information  upon  the  same  subject  see  a  pajper 
by  Mr.  Crawfurth  Smith,  entitled  *The 
Cfnurchyard  and  its  Accessories,*  contributed 
recently  to  the  Architectural  Association, 
66,  Great  Marlborough  Street,  W. 

Harry  Hems. 
Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

Lines  on  the  Skin  (9"'  S.  vii.  27).— It  may 
be  of  assistance  to  N.  K.  R.  to  know  that  the 
author  of  these  lines  was  named  Power,  and 
was,  I  believe,  a  native  of  Atherstone.  I 
believe  they  begin  as  follows,  and  not  as 
quoted  :— 

There's  a  skin  without  and  a  skin  within, 
A  covering  skin  and  a  lining  skin^ 
But  the  skin  within  is  the  sain  without 
Doubled  and  carried  complete  throughout. 

L.  Lloyd. 

Ipplepen,  CO.  Devon  (9""  S.  vi.  409;  vii.  50). 
—I  do  not  feel  qualified  to  deal  with  the 
whole  of  the  article  at  the  last  reference,  but 
must  protest  against  the  effort  to  make  out 
certain  well-known  Irish  family  names  to  be 
Semitic.  Before  venturing  upon  such  deli- 
cate ground  as  this,  Mr.  Thorpe  should  at 
least  have  made  his  comparisons  with  the 
genuine  Gaelic  forms  of  these  names,  instead 
of  with  the  English  phonetic  spelling  of  them. 
Thus,  excluding  McBeth,  sometimes  angli- 
cized Beton,  which  is  Scotch,  and  of  doubtful 
origin,  the  correct  Irish  orthographies  of  the 
names  in  question  are  as  follows :  MacCar- 
thaigh  for  McCarthv,  MacDonnchadha  for 
McDona,  O'Caiside  for  Cassidy,  O'h-Eilighe 
for  Healy^  O'Mathghamhna  for  Mahony, 
0*Maol-Eoin  for  Maiony.  Still  older  forms 
are  to  be  found  in  the  Ogham  inscriptions, 
by  the  aid  of  which,  for  example,  McCarthv 
can  be  proved  to  be  derived  trom  the  Irisn 
equivalent  of  the  historic  name  Caractacus. 
Jas.  Platt,  Jun. 

On  this  8ub]ect  "Mil  Pates-^kx^i^^  tloKr^ 


mna,  and  oonseenito  theplaoe  to  Qod  bypnyer,  /  (7**»  S.  ix.  6),  to  which  the  ISAW/Ot  t^lecv  toajj 


114 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9*  8.  vii.  fkb.  9 


be  read  with  profit.  £  would  slm  call  atten- 
tion to  a  note  by  Dr.  Neubaubr  (7"*  S.  iii. 
96),  in  which  many  other  identifications  of 
EngliAh  names  with  Hebrew  words  are  pro- 
pounded. He  holds  that  London  is  the 
dwelling  of  Dan,  and  Guildhall  the  house  of 
lepers  (Qeled).  Scarcely  one  of  his  etymo- 
logies is  more  "funnj;"  (to  use  Mr.  Thorpe's 
word)  than  the  identification  of  Apple-  with 
Naphath.  Dr  Neuba iter's  note  called  forth 
at  the  time  a  reply  in  Truth,  which  took  liim 
seriously,  and  spoke  of  him  impertinently. 
In  revenge  the  doctor,  as  I  remember, 
proposed  to  explain  Mr.  Labouchere's  name 
trom  Hebrew  LabAsh-Or,  "  clothed  in  light," 
^nonlucendo,  0.  B.  Mount. 

"Kitty- witch"  (9"'  S.  vii.  9).— In  Folk-Lore. 
1898,  vol.  ix.  p.  366, 1  inserted  a  query  upon 
the  above.  I  there  assumed  that  they  were 
simply  loose  women  who  held  a  species  of 
carnival  or  saturnalia  on  a  certain  day,  which 
does  not  now  appear  to  be  known,  and 
suggested  that  originally  the  custom  had 
some  especial  significance.  Could  it  be  that 
it  alluded  to  some  mediaeval  attack  upon  the 
town,  wherein  the  women,  in  the  absence  of 
the  men  at  sea,  fought  with  and  beat  off 
the  invaders?  The  men's  shirts  might 
simplv  be  symbolical,  or  might  have  been 
actually  worn  on  the  walls  to  deceive  the 
enemy.  The  account  of  any  such  invasion 
was  unfortunately  not  forthcoming ;  the  only 
semblance  of  such  that  I  have  been  able  to 
trace  was  the  attack  by  the  followers  of  Kett 
in  1649,  but  the  storj'  was  probably  older 
than  this. 

Dr.  W.  Zindema  {Folk-L(yre,  1899,  vol.  x. 
p.  246)  stated  that  a  parallel  existed  in  the 
"  Hartjesdag  "  at  Amsterdam  upon  the  Mon- 
day followinR  August  16  (the  Assumption  of 
the  Virgin  Mary),  when  the  men  anci  women 
of  the  lower  classes  exchange  their  attire  and 
sp)end  the  day  drinking. 

I  have  made  considerable  local  inquiry  with- 
out success,  the  custom  apparently  having 
fallen  into  desuetude  some  time  prior  to  last 
century.  W.  B.  Qerish. 

Bishop's  Stortford. 

"Hooligan"  (9^»»  S.  vii.  48).  — Mr.  Paul 
Taylor,  on  making  inquiry  once  concerning 
the  source  of  this  term,  acquiesced  in  the 
statement  ventured  upon  by  a  "gentleman 
in  court "  to  the  effect  that  it  was  probably 
attributable  to  a  comic  song  in  vogue  several 
3'ears  ago  at  the  lower-class  music-halls,  which 
was  sung  by  the  Brothers  Hooligan  (Sun, 
IS  August,  1898J.    This  testimony,  however. 


21   November,  1900,   will  prove   of 
value : — 

•*  You  are  right  about  the  *  Hoolijjans.* 
several  times  in  Australia,  seven  or  eight  y< 
the  song  you  refer  to,  and  it  was  widely 
with  the  Larrikins.    The  first  verse  goes  li 
and  it  has  a  rowdy,  rousing  chorus  :— 
There  *s  a  family  living  near  us— 

The  Hooligans ! 
Always  in  some  terrible  fuss 

Are  the  Hooligans. 
Never  known  to  tell  a  lie, 
They'd  sneak  yer  teeth  and  say  *  Goodb; 
They  could  dnnk  the  Carlton  Brew'ry  dr 
Could  the  Hooligans. 

Chorwi, 

Yah  !  the  Hooligans  ; 

Yarr-h  !  the  Hooligans  ; 
They  are  never  quiet,  no, 
Always  in  some  riot,  so 

Yah  !  the  Hooligans  ; 
They  are  the  boys  that  kick  up  the  n 

In  our  back  yard." 

One  can  only  hop)e  the  Editor  of  *  ^ 
will  not  be  so  molested,  but  the  writ 
signs  himself  Tomp,  ends  his  int< 
communication  with  the  threat  t 
"shall  be  happy  to  drop  in  and  sing  i 
J.  HoLDEN  MacMic 

Routes  between  London  and 
(9"*  S.  vi.  406).— I  do  not  gather  ' 
Mr.  Hems  is  particularly  intere> 
the  above,  but  if  he  is  he  may 
know  of  three  very  interesting  work 
I  possess,  which  give  all  the  conter 
routes : — 

(i.)  A  Journey  to  Paris  in  the  Year  169 
Martin  Lister.  The  Third  Edition.  Londc 
Tonson,  1699.    8vo. 

(ii.)  Le  Parisien  ^  Londres,  ou  Avis  aux 
qui  vont  en  Angleterre,  &c.,  &c.  Am 
Maradan,  1789.    2  vols.  ISmo. 

(iii.)  Galignani*8  New  Paris  Guide,  or  S 
Companion  through  the  French  Metror 
Paris,  Galignani.  13th  Edition.  [The  date 
my  copy,  but  appears  to  be  circa  18*20.] 

Edward  Heron-^ 

The  Battle  of  Fontenoy,  1745  (£ 
25).— The  salute  at  Fontenoy  was  at  ( 
famous.  From  your  correspondent's 
would  seem  to  be  sadly  forgotten.  Th( 
old  story  is  told  by  Voltaire.  The  Fre 
saluted  were  certainly  not  "Louis 
Dauphin,  Marshal  de  Saxe,  Due  de  R 
iStc."  Saxe  was  so  ill  that  he  was  u 
sit  his  horse,  and  gave  his  orders  from 
When  Ligonier's  Guards  came  face 
with  those  of  France,  they  salutec 
moving  their  liats.  The  Count  d( 
banne,  the  Due  de  Biron,  and  the  o 


»*8.vii.fbb.9.i90i.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


115 


"Gentlemen,"  was  the  reply,  "we  never  fire 
first.  Fire  yourselves  [  '*  Fontenoy  was  a 
defeat,  but,  like  mc^t  defeats.,  there  was  little 
that  the  losers  need  be  ashamed  to  re- 
member. 

The  seven  Irish  reginient:^  were  in  red,  with 
white  breeches.  One  would  suppose  that 
this  colour  had  remained  since  the  dajH  of 
Sarsfield.  The  Royal  Regiment  of  Irelaud 
(1,400  strong  after  Limerick^  of  whom  all  but 
about  seven  were  true  to  their  cause)  pro- 
bably wore  red  coata.  Certainly  at  Cremona 
(1702)  the  immortal  brigade  would  have 
donned  red  coats  had  they  had  time  to  don 
any  coata  at  all.  But  red  must  have  been 
something  more  than  a  tradition  in  the 
French  army  in  1745.  Tho  famous  Mousqne- 
tairesj  were  only  '^Gria"  and  **Noir"  from 
the  colour  of  their  honie^.  The  "  Noir  "  were 
formed  from  the  cardinal^s  guards^  whose 
colours,  as  those  of  the  Ijeague  before  them, 
wore  scarlet.  The  Irish  exiles  doubtless  re- 
tained their  distinctive  uniform  till  1794, 
when  six  regiments  were  received  into  British 
wrvica  to  &  soon  disbanded. 

We  hadlv  want  a  history  of  the  Irish 
Brigade.  No  Englishman,  of  course,  could 
write  it  impartially,  but  Judge  O  Connor 
Morris,  for  instance,  might  well  set  his  hand 
to  the  work.  George  Marshall. 

Seftun  Park,  Liverpool 

Etymology  ai?d  Weist  (9"'  S.  vii.  S3),— It 
may  interest  Prof,  Skeat  to  know  that  long 
before  Dr,  Johnson's  *  Dictionary'  appeared 
in  1755,  Bailey,  in  his  *  Dictionary  '(my  edition 
h  of  1727),  gave  the  correct  derivation  of 
wrcoMc,  Fr.  mrmoir^  pa«t  part,  jrwrai«  (cf. 
«*»»>,  auh\  It  is  Htran(?e  that  Dr,  John.son 
overlnobed  this  :  probably  a  caae  of  Hofjiefus 
domitam.  It  is  well  that  Prof,  Skeat  has 
called  attention  to  thin. 

Michael  Ferkae. 

UtUeGiddiflg,  Ealing. 

MoKOLiTH  WITH  Cop-markings  ik  Hyde 
Park  {9*S,  vii.  69).— I  have  seen  it  laid  down, 
W where  I  cannot  recollect,  that  the  monolith 
•bich  CoL-  Carnac  mentions  is  an  ancient 
otnblein  of  phallic  worship.  Is  thifi  correct  I 
Cin  CoL  Caen  AC  tell  us  where  the  other 
nmilar  stones  are  placed  7 

W,  H.  Qdarrell. 

Smos  Feassr  (8^  S,  x,  166,  S23  ;  B^^  S.  vi" 
157,338,  433  ;  vii.  16,  51,  75).— It  is  a  mistake 
^soppo«^  that,  "as  mentioned  in  the  ^ Table 
wL^  there  was  a  second  likeness  of  Lovat, 
•  foil-length  etched  by  Hogarth."  There  is 
no  ntch  etching  in  existence.  The  error  has, 
Prtaps,  bad  110  origiu  m  tJie  fact  th^t  there 


were  later  copi^  by  other  hands  from  sketches 
made  by  Hogarth  at  the  tri al  of  Lo vat,  formerly 
in  the  pofsseasion  of  Horace  Walpole,  Infor- 
mation of  thia  kind,  in  such  booKs  as  Hone's 
and  Knight's,  is  usually  second  hand,  and  rarely 
to  be  trusted  for  technical  accuracy.  It  is 
better  to  seek  for  that,  in  the  preaent  case, 
for  example,  in  the  works  of  J.  Nichols  and 
S.  Ireland,  Juljait  Marboaxl, 

Facing  p.  16,  voU  ii  of  the  *  History  of 
English  Dress.'  by  Georgians  Hill,  maj  be 
seen  a  portrait  engraved  on  steel  of  **  Simon 
Fraser,  Lord  Lovat,  Chief  of  the  Clan  Fraaer," 
and  underneath  is  engraved  **Iie  Clare  pinx'; 
Cook  aculp'"  (London,  Hichard  Bentley  Jk 
Son,  1893).  The  portrait  is  a  half-length,  and 
represents  him  habited  in  complete  armour, 
excepting  a  large  flowing  wig  covering  his 
heaaand  falling  on  his  armour.  Where  the 
original  picture  is  I  cannot  aay,  but  I  have 
an  idea  that  the  engraving  has  done  duty  in 
former  years  in  other  publications. 

John  I'lOKFORD,  M.A. 
Newbourn©  Rectory ,  Woodbridgo* 

Lincoln's  Inn  Fields  (8"*  S.  iv,  425  ;  9**  S. 

vii,  13). — The  angle-post  referred  ttj  by  Mr, 

Hebb  as  being  formerly  in  Holywell  Street 

is  now  to  be  found  in  the  Guildhall  Museum. 

Andrew  Ouver. 

"  Viya"  (9*^  S.  vi  266,  31 L  391,  451  ;  vii" 

18),— It  is  not  quite  true  that  one  never  hears 
'New  "  for  "  New  College  "  from  a  New  Col- 
lege man,  though  it  i$}  true  that  the  abbrevia- 
tion is  considered  improper,  A  fourth -year 
man  recently  down  from  Oxford  shows  me  a 
note  from  a  New  College  tutor  in  which  the 
sentence  occnrs,  "I  hope  to  see  you  at  New 
this  evening  ''  I  have  corDpiled  a  long  list 
of  Oxford  undergraduate  alang,  but  it  is 
perhapi  hardly  of  sufHcient  general  interest 
for  these  columns,  C,  C.  B, 

UsK  Castle  {d*^  S,  vi.  489).— I  tranacribe 
the  following  from  Wirt8ikes's  *  Rambles  and 
Studies  in  Old  South  Wales/  published  in 
188L  While  confirmhig  the  tradition,  it 
leaver  Mr.  Page's  request  for  proof  un- 
answered :— 

"U[s,^.,  Uak]  is  a  oostle  among  caatles^  «ven  in 
Wales,  bci^uie  inone  of  its  rooms  the  humLibacked 
tyrant  Richard  IlL  was  born.  I  am  perfectly  &irare 
tha^t  thiii  fiict  It  denied  by  the  over- uatrt leu lar 
nowftday^ ;  but  there  i*  no  comfort  to  he  had  in 
this  world  if  we  do  not  put  down  the&«  iconocTmtd* 
VI' ho  have  fl buttered  William  Teir&  i^rrow  and  pared 
the  apple  ntory  lo  an  empty  core,  who  have  ground 
Pocahontas  nod  Barbara  Frietchie  under  the  same 
li^ly  milliiionc^  and  who  ^wWV  yi^^^**^^^^  \'^^''^'*  ^\^^^ 
hington  never  cruB*«d  tW  \S«\ft.iNistit^-  "XV^ 
Bhy>  subtle,  and  UooA^  Bi\t\ift.t^  '^*^\5«iT^ 


/ugly  mi 
Washin 
pmnd, 


116 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       (9*8.vilf«b.9.i»l 


in  tbo  fifteenth  ceiitmy,  a,nd  lei  ub  believe  he  wan 

bom  here;  it  is  certain  he  niarned  Ann  if  evil* 
wboae  father  was  Lord  of  Aberpivenny  Can  tie  under 
Henry  VV'-V.  70, 

The  erudite  United  Stateji  conml  iu  Rilent 
m  to  Edward  IV, 'b  alleged  birth  in  the  cattle. 

The  following  trandfttioii  from  William 
Wy  rceater,  aa  rendered  by  Hearne»  maj^  asaiat 
my  esteemed  friend  Mr,  Page:— 

^*  Tbe  Generation  of  the  most  Illuitrioue  Prinoet 

Richard  Duke  of  York^"  Ao J'  Tbe  Lord  Edward* 

ibe  aecond  &i>n  of  the  lUuatrious  Prince  Ricrfaord^ 
was  bom  in  the  City  of  jUm^n,  on  the  27th  April  in 
th«  year  1442*  in  the  afternoon,  the  14th  hour 
ftod  45  minutes  (45  minutes  past  '2  o'clock  a.m.., 
April  28th)," 

In  a  iiotet  apparently  by  Hearna  qnotinjt 
the  text  of  the  *AnnaJa/  our  author  savs 
that  Edward  was  born  **on  Monday  the 
2Sth  April,  1442"  (not  saying  where),  two 
hours  after  midnight,  and  adds  naively ; 
*'Qui  conceptua  e*it  in  camera  proxima 
cai>ellie  palacii  de  Hatfield  ^^  {p.  462), 

in  the  *  Annals,'  written  Hubfieqyently  to 
the  ''Account  of  the  Generation  of  the  Family 
of  York/  W.  Wyrceater  records,  **  On  Monday 
the  2nd  of  October  [1452],  KichartJ  (j5on  of 
EicharcL  Duke  of  York)  waa  born  at  Fotherin- 
gay."  I  extract  from  *  The  Chronicles  of  the 
white  Rose  of  York '  (London,  Eohn,  1845),  , 
noteu,  pp.  213-4,  Gnomok*     | 

Whifflers  and  Whiffling  (4**"  S.  xii,  284, 
354,  mi,  410,  525), —The  whiffler  h  men- 
tioned ne^r  the  beginning  of  the  fifth  act 
of  *  Henry  V.,'  where  "the  a  eep- mouthed  sea^' 
iH  *Mike  a  mighty  whiffler  *fore  the  king.** 
We  are  told  that  the  whiffle  wafl  originally  a 
kind  of  axe,  but  that  the  whifflers  in  Norwich 
carried  a  sword  of  lath  or  latten,  I  find  in 
chap,  viii-  of  the  appendix  to  George  Borrow 'ti 
*  The  liomany  Rye    the  followiog  passage  :— 

"Nobody  can  u^e  his  fists,  without  beinp  taught 
the  uae  or  them,  by  tbo^  who  have  themflelve^ 
bc«t]  taught,  no  more  than  any  one  can  whiMc, 
without  being  taught  by  a  master  of  the  i^rt.  Now 
let  any  man  of  the  present  day  try  to  wbitHe. 
Woulcf  not  any  one»  who  wiEiheu  to  wbiB^le,  liave 
to  go  to  a  maj^tur  of  the  art  ?  Ai^uredly  I  but  where 
would  he  find  one*  at  the  present  day?  Thu  last  of 
the  whitHers  lian^ed  himself  about  a  fortnight  ago 
on  a  bell- rope  in  a  church  Hteeplu  of  *■  the  om  town,* 
from  pure  ^rief  that  there  waa  no  further  demand 
for  the  exhibition  of  his  art,  there  being  no  demand 
for  whiffling  iiinee  tho  di^coutinuance  uf  Guildball 
bftuqiieta.  \Vbifiiing  ia  \oAt.  The  old  chap  left  hU 
iword  behind  him  ;  let  any  one  take  up  the  old 
chapel  awordi  aod  try  to  whiffle/^ 

Borrow  was  a  Norfolk  man,  and  *The 
Baamnj  liyB*  ajipeared  in  1857.     One  sees 


who  twirls  an  ornamental  ntaff,  aometimee 
throwing  it  in  the  air  and  catching  it  again. 
The  'Century  Dictionary  *  gives  us  :  "  Drum- 
major  One  who  directs  the  evolutions  of  a 
band  or  drum-corpsi  in  marching  (U.S.)*"  In 
the  English  Army  Keguktions  (lB44}/'The 
Mnsic  of  Slow  and  Quick  Time  is  to  be  prac- 
tiwed  under  the  direction  of  the  Drum*Major'* 
{*H.E.D/>.  In  the  ILS.  army  the  motions 
of  the  drum- major's  staff,  held  vertically  or 
horizontally,  are  signals  for  the  conduct  of 
the  line  of  march.  In  processions  not  of  a 
strictly  military  character  the  drum -major 
performs  many  fantastic  tricks  with  his 
staff, and  is  apparently  an  unintentional  copy 
of  the  ancient  whiffler. 

EiCHAEB  H.  Thornton. 
Portland,  Oregon, 

COLUMBAEIA,    AnCIBNT     Dove     OR     PlGi;OK 

Cotes  (9^  S,  vi.  389,  478  :  vii.  16),— I  believe  I 
am  correct  in  stating  that  there  is  an  old 
dove-house  on  the  boundary  of  Little  Glem- 
ham  Park,  Suffolk.  The  '^commodious  Manor 
House  of  Clopton  Hall "  was  adverti&ed  to  ba 
sold  at  Ga rr a wav*8  Coffee- House  in  1806*  with 
"  forecourt,  garaens.  fishponds,  orchard,  dove- 
cote, farmyard,  and  suitable  outbuild  in  ga." 
In  the  Sun  newspaper  of  4  September,  1799, 
the  lease  of  Crawley  Farm.  Witney,  Oxford- 
shire, was  advertised  to  be  dispo«^  of,  and 
among  the  attractions  mentioned  is  a  "  dove- 
house.'^  In  conclusion  I  cjuote  from  Selden's 
*  Table-talk,*  under  *  Cooacienee  *: — 

^*  Some  men  make  it  a  Case  of  ConRcieDce^  whether 
a  Man  may  have  a  Pigeon-houae,  because  his  f^geonn  . 
eat  other  Folk'n  Com.  But  there  is  no  »uch  thing 
aa  l"kinacietic«  in  the  Business ;  the  Matt«r  i«, 
whether  he  be  a  Man  of  nucb  Quality,  that  tbe 
Ktate  allows  him  to  have  a  Dovf?hou»e;  if  »o. 
t  tie  re  V  an  end  of  the  bu*iineaa  :  hi^  F*igeoiifi  have  a 
right  to  eat  where  they  iijeajia  themselvea," 

H,  Sire. 

There  is  a  largo  columbarium  at  Alciston^ 
part  of  which  is  now  used  as  a  chick  en -house, 
the  remainder  being  roofiess.  There  is  also  a 
circular  one  opposite  Pateham  Church,  Both 
are  in  Sussex,  W.  Sbarf. 

*'OwL  IK  IVY  RUSH  "  (9"*  S.  vL  328,  396  ;  vii. 
16).— I  have  a  copy  of  the  second  edition  of 
jlay'»  *  Proverbs,'  Cambndffe,  1678,  and  under 
letter  O  in  the  *  Alphabet  of  joculatoQ% 
nugatory,  and  rustiek  proverbs '  the  follow- 
ing is  given  :— 

To  look  like  an  owl  in  an  Ivy-buth. 

w.  s. 

"Twopenny  Turk"  (9*^  S.  vii.  29),  -  I 
,  remember  reading  in  the  Daiiu  Chronide,  a 


9»  a  VIL  Fn. »,  1901.] 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


117 


ductor  had  originateci  the  nickoatne  "Two- 
penny Tuba"  W.  GuRZON  Yko. 
Rtchmoad,  Surrey, 

D'AovERGNS  Family  (9*  S.  viL  ^8).— Tho 

MArquin  de  Monclar  has  been  good  enough 

to  Bend  as  a  notice  on  the  pawble  relatione  of 

the  D'Attvergnes  with  the  Diichy  of  Bouillon, 

from    which    it    in     clear     that    no   Jersey 

Bauvi^rane  could  have  the  slightest  right  to 

the  titte  of  Prince  de   Bouillon,     The  last 

duke  died   in   1806,  and   the    CongreaB    of 

Vienna  reiected   the  claims  of  two  French 

nobles  to  tn©  duchy  on  grounds  of  date  which 

would  have  been    still    more   fatal  to  the 

Jersey  Protestant  family.  Ebitob. 

Van  dkr  Meui.en  {9^^  S,  vii.  87). -There 
are  many  of  hii  aiegea  (Dutch  wars  of 
Loaift  XIV.)  at  VersaiUea  which  answer  to 
tbe  description.  D* 

Khododendrons  and  Oleanders  (9**"  S, 
viles).— The  oleander  grows  wild  in  Pales- 
tifle;  not  so  the  rhododendmn.  But  perhaps 
the  oleander  was  once  called  ** rhododendron," 
which,  otherwise  than  botanically,  it  is. 

D. 

HiEALujc  (B'^  S.  vL  170).— lb  is  asked,  "  Do 
Aaiarican  families  keep  up  heraldic  bear- 
iugi  t"  I  a  n  s  wer,  Cer tai  nly ,  1  n  d  eed ,  i  t  wo  u  Id 
fee  strange  if  they  did  not,  seeing  that  they 
iretbedejjcendantaof  people3(European)  with 
whom  the  bearing  of  arms  has  been  a  custom 
^or  oftQturie^.  The  custom  of  bearing  coat 
*nnoiir  reached  America  with  the  arrival  of 
Jhe  earliest  European  colon i^tii,  and  here  it 
w  eotitinued  ever  hIticq.  There  is  no  differ- 
^<^  between  American*  and  Europeana  so 
^t  u  the  mere  bearing  of  arm^i  goes,  but 
in  the  manner  iu  which  ai  rai*  are  borne  by 
the  two  kindred  peoples  there  is  a  total 
difier^nce. 

In  Great  Britain  and  other  parts  of  Europe 
the  bearing  of  armsi  in  regulate<i  by  j^pecial 
1*^  I  here  there  are  no  such  laws  ;  nence 
*rm«are  borne  at  the  individual  will  of  any 
citizen  of  the  United  States,  The  conse- 
quence is,  that  while  some  coats  are  borne 
m  accordance  with  the  laws  of  heraldry, 
otnefs  are  not ;  but,  after  all,  Americans 
^  EH>t   singular    in    that^    as    every  btxlj 

The  above  refers^  of  course,  to  the  white 
^Ktericans  of  European  origin  and  to  family 
AnQ«.  The  armei  of  the  United  States  (as  a 
MtionX  of  the  different  states,  and  their 
^tiei  ref^t  on  a  distinct  legal  basis,  having 
WnsMamed  by  legislative  acts.  Home  of 
^m  are  heraldfic  in  design,  others  are  not, 
m  all  M^  known  to  the  hw^  and  b^  it  exk% 


while  the  existence  and  recognition  of  in- 
dividual or  family  arras  are  but  matters  of 
custom— a  costora,  however,  too  ancient  and 
too  firmly  implanted  in  Americana  to  be 
eradicated.  Of  course,  well-bred  men  never 
make  a  great  display  of  cfjat  armour ;  yon  will 
not  see  it  blazoned  large  upon  their  coaches  ; 
but  if  you  are  asked  to  their  houses  you  may 
find  it  engraved  upon  their  plate  or  within 
the  covers  of  their  oooks. 

I  know  of  no  roll  of  arms  devoted  exclu- 
sively to  Pennsylvania  families,  but  Glenn's 
'Merion  in  the  Welsh  Tract'  gives  some 
arms  with  pedigrees,  chiefly  pertaining  to 
offshoots  from  the  ancient  Cymric  families, 
Pennsylyanian. 

RS^-^T  find  that  Zieber*s  'Heraldry  in 
America,'  published  by  the  Bailey,  Banks 
h  Biddle  Company,  of  Philadelphia,  in 
1895,  gives  some  arms  borne  by  Pennsylvania 
families.  *  America  Heraldica,'  Brentano 
Bros.,  New  York,  1886,  does  the  same,  but 
the  number  given  is  not  large. 

AOE   OF    MATEICULATrON   (9^  S.    Vl,  508).— 

Instances  of  early  matriculation  have  been 
collected  at  1^^  S.  ix.  388,  616  ;  x.  117,  198. 

W.  C.  B. 

DuTTON  Family  (9^  S,  vi.  Am,  617  ;  vii, 
54V— Since  I  last  wrote  on  the  Dutton  family, 
I  have  read  what  QrmerocI  says  about  the 
legend  of  the  four  esquires  iu  his  *  Miscellanea 
Palatina/  1851  (not  pubHshed).  That  most 
competent  antiquary  is  clearly  of  opinion  that 
there  is  no  authentic  foundation  for  the 
story.    This  is  what  he  says  {p.  43) :  — 

'Mt  is  proper  to  add  that  Dr.  Gower  h*»  mtaWd 
iu  his  *  Sketch  of  Cheshire  Materials'  (p.  47)  that 
Di3tton  and  the  other  Enquires  of  Lord  Audley 
added  '  frets'  to  their  arms  out  of  deferonce  to  the 
wish  of  Lord  Audley  in  1350,  but  this  remark  is 
ajmeoded  to  a  citation  from  Daniel!  [Keanet** 
collectiou)  without  any  aiitheuticalion*  It  correct, 
it  would  not  disprove  use  by  Duttou  ;  but  it  is 
observed  by  Lysous  that  neither  Dutlon,  who  was 
Sheriff  of  Oheahire  in  1356,  the  year  of  Poictiera, 
nor  any  other  of  the  traditional  Esquires  are  even 
named  m  such  by  Froiaaart,  or  by  any  of  the  old 
Engliah  bistoHaua  " 

It  is  much  to  be  wished  that  Mr,  Stewart 
could  find  out  when  and  where  the  story  first 
appeared.  The  details  have  all  the  air  of 
truth,  but  at  present  it  is  one  of  those  legends 
which  those  keiow  most  about  who  arc  furthest 
removed  in  point  of  time  from  the  indjcjated 
date.  Srerborke 

I  suppose  the  authority  for  the  statement 
quoted    from    the    *  Complete     History    of 
Erjgland  '  is  Berners's  *  Froissart."    But  what 
proof   is    there  that  T)i^.    Oow^.i?*  lut\N\^t^ 
loformatioQ  about  t\\e  on%m  ol  xX\?i  ^''  ^t^'C^ 


118 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9*  a  vii.  feb.  9. 1901. 


on  the  arms  of  the  four  esquires  is  correct? 
The  reference  is  Berners*s  '  Froissart,'  chap, 
clxv.,  clxvii.,  and  clxix.  (** Tudor  Transla- 
tions," 1901,  vol.  i.  pp.  381-2,  383-4,  385-6). 

S.  L.  Petty. 
Ul  version. 

William  Moreis  as  a  Man  of  Business 
(9'»»  S.  vi.  406,  495;  vii.  54).  — Dr.  Swift's 
question  as  to  dinner  has  a  parallel  in  one 
asked  by  a  Scottish  cook,  and  told  in  my 
hearing  by  the  late  Dr.  Littledale.  It  was 
Friday,  and  no  fish  had  been  prepared  for 
him  :  the  cook,  on  being  remonstrated  with, 
scornfully  inquired  if  **  the  Almighty  liadn't 
ither  things  to  dee  than  to  be  keeking 
intil  Dr.  Littledale's  stamach  to  see  if  it 
contained  fish  or  fowl."  But  it  is  somewhat 
unlucky  to  speak  of  Dr.  Swift  as  though  he 
had  no  regard  for  detail,  and  thus  bracket 
him  with  **  the  foolish  man  in  Job,"  for  never 
was  there  a  writer  who  had  more  absolute 
knowledge  and  command  of  detail  in  most 
unexpected  (quarters.  See  all  through  his 
works,  especially  in  *  Directions  to  Servants.' 
And  his  daily  life,  his  devotions,  his  money 
matters,  his  regulation  of  his  catnetlral,  were 
all  exact  and  particular  to  a  hair. 

Ibaou^. 

I  must  confess  that  the  parallel  which  I 
pointed  out  is  not  exact.  The  maxim  of 
La  Rochefoucauld  has  no  relation  to  detail. 
It  relates  to  trifies.  E.  Yardley. 

Movable  Stocks  (9^*»  S.  vi.  405;  vii.  14).— 
The  stocks  at  Beverley  were  movable,  and 
fitted  into  sockets  near  the  market  cross. 
They  are  dated  1789,  and  are  preserved  in  a 
chamber  at  St.  Mary's  Church  at  Beverley 
They  were  used  as  recently  as  1853.  (See 
Andrews's  *  Bygone  Punishments,'  1899.) 

W.  B.  Gerish. 

Bishop's  Stortford. 


peDultimAte  volame  is  continued  in  this,  no  better 
system  beins,  indeed,  to  be  obtained.  The  lota, 
8,441  in  all,  numbered  consecutively  from  the 
previous  volume,  are  entered  under  the  names  of  the 
sales  and  in  the  order  in  which  these  took  place, 
the  number  in  the  sale  catalogue  being  given  at  the 
end  of  each  paragraph.  No.  I2,151  thus  appears  in 
the  sale  of  M.  EL  II  Champon.  It  consists  of  the 
*(£uvre8  Di verses'  of  M.  de  Cyrano  Beriperac, 
Paris,  Charles  de  Sercy,  1658-^4.  The  separate 
works  comprised  in  the  volume  are  mention^ ;  its 
condition,  in  a  morocco  binding  by  David,  is  de- 
scribed ;  and  its  number  in  the  sale  catalogue  (1,017) 
is  given  in  brackets.  Then  follows  the  price,  33  fr. 
In  order  to  trace  the  work,  the  purchaser  of  the 
*  Index  Bibliographique'  looks  under  Cyrano  de 
Bergerac,  where  he  is  referred  to  the  nomber 
12,151,  which,  as  the  enumeration  is  consecutive, 
is  ea8ily  found.  So  different  are  the  prices  obtained 
for  books  in  Paris  and  in  London  that  a  study 
of  this  work  for  all  concerned  with  the  sale  of 
books  is  almost  indispensable.  It  is  s^reatly  to 
be  commended  also  to  the  bibliophile,  wno  always 
loves  to  find,  or  to  believe  that  he  has  obtained, 
a  rarity.  The  bibliographer  will  find  his  way 
to  the  work  without  our  direction.  Facilities 
of  intercourse  have  a  tendency  to  approximate 
prices  in  the  two  cimitals,  but  the  disparity  remains 
remarkable.  A  difference  between  the  volume  of 
M.  Dauze  and  *  Book-Prices  Current,*  with  which 
we  have  previously  compared  it,  is  characteristic : 
English  books  are  of  rarest  occurrence  in  French 
sale  catalogues,  while  in  English  catalogues  French 
books  are  abundant.  Every  effort  is  made  in  the 
preliminary  matter  to  render  the  work  intelligible 
to  Englishmen,  and  all  abridgments  and  technical 
terms  employed  are  therein  supplied,  together  with 
their  English  equivalents. 

Vouagei   of  the  Elizahtthan  Seamen  to  America. 

Edited  by  Edward  John  Pavne,  M.A.    Second 

Series.  (Oxford,  Clarendon  rress.) 
Skven  years  have  elapsed  since  Mr.  Payne  issued 
the  first  volume  of  his  selections  from  *The 
Principal  Navigations*  of  Hakluyt,  a  work  the 
ai)f)carance  of  which  we  warmly  welcomed  (see 
8"  S.  v.  339).  That  volume  contained  the  voyages 
of  Hawkins,  Frobisher,  and  Blake.  It  had  a  prefa- 
tory chapter  giving  a  trustworthy  and  an  animated 
account  of  the  early  phases  of  maritime  discovery. 
A  second  series,  now  issued,  is  occupied  with  the 
voysige  of  Sir  Humfrey  Gilbert,  whose  evil  star 


lfgii%Ctl]xtttatt%, 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  &c. 

Index  Bihiiographit/ue.    Par  Pierre  Dauze.    (Paris, 

R^l)ertoire  des  Ventes  Publiques  Catalogu6es. ) 
On  the  appearance  of  the  third  volume  of  the 
*  Index  Bil)Ii()graphi([iie*  of  M.  Pierre  Dauze,  one  of 
the  most  indefatigable  and  trustworthy  of  French 
bibliographers,  we  drew  attention  to  the  merits  of 
the  work  and  the  difficulties  that  impeded  its 
apijearance  (see  9^  S.  iii.  39).  That  tnese  diffi- 
culties, though  combated,  have  not  Iteen  overcome 
is  shown  in  the  fact  that  the  fourth  volume,  not 
lone  issued,  carries  the  record  no  further  than 
30  September,  1897.  The  present  volume  is,  how- 
evifr,   much  larger  than   its  Dredocessor.  the  470 


conquered  all  the  benign  influences  of  the  **  Vimn 
Queen  *' ;  the  vovage  of  Amadas  and  Barlow ;  the 
two  voyages  of  Thomas  Cavendish— or,  as  Hakluyt 


unifonnly  prints  it,  Candish— the  first  one  of  the 
most  prosperous  ever  undertaken,  the  second  no 
less  hapless,  ending  in  the  death  of  the  captain  or 
** general";  and  Raleigh's  'Discovery  of  Guiana.' 
An  introduction,  neither  the  least  interesting  nor 
the  least  stimulating  portion  of  the  work,  deals 
with  the  characters  of  the  various  navigators 
and  the  results  of  the  explorations,  while  short 
prefaces  to  each  of  the  voyages  supplv  connecting 
links  between  the  various  portions  o!  the  work. 
To  those  who  do  not  possess  *  The  Princi|)al  Navi- 
gations, Voyages,  Tramques,  and  Discoveries  of  the 
English  Nation  *  of  Hakluyt,  or  any  of  the  various 
reprints,  these  volumes  offer,  in  a  convenient  and 
an  attractive  form,  an  aupetizins  selection  from  the 


o*&viLF«B.9.i9oio        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


119 


a  f«w  coarse  words  or  pbro^eSj  the  separate  works 

ax«  f&ithfully   reprinted,  and  a   few    explanatory 

Ddtei  prove  tliat  the  whole  is  lq tended  for  a  popular 

edit  ion.    Gilbert  in  the  most  pious  of  phraso  where 

all  are  pious,  aad  CavendLih  the  most  open  in  the 

»vowaI    of    the    crtieltiefl    practised.     Toe    piety, 

though  it  had  little  influence  in  colouring  actions, 

vas    neither    hypocritical    nor    skin-deep.     As    ts 

iKJdf  "  Few  passages  in   Engltah  story  are  better 

known   than  that    part  of    the  present  narrative 

wkich  d^acnbea  Gilbert  as  sittinz   abatt  on  the 

deck  nf  the  Sg^iireL  with  a  book  in  his  hand, 

efaeering  thoee  in  the  Hind  by  reiterating,  *  We  are 

■a  ne&r  lo  heaven  by  oca  as  by  knd,^  "    Tbe  wanton 

deatraction  of  prorjerty  and  life,  fromprehensible 

enough  in  tbe  ease  of  the  Spaniards,  ia  equaliy 

injuaicious  and  incomprebensibk ;  and  the  uae  of 

Ibumhiacrews  to  extract  knowledge  the  victin^a  in 

many  caaes  did  not  |>osseBS  must  nave  led  to  rtiany 

a  fruitless  undertaking.    Raleigh  is  careful  tii  insiflt 

on    the    mod  a  ration    and    fair   dealing    which    he 

observed  towards  the  natives.     Hia  account  is  not, 

bow^e^er,    always    conviucing.     The    volume    con- 

cladea  with  (Javendisb's  last  letter  written  to  feir 

Triitrmm  GoiKes,  a  very  Interesting  and  painful 

docameoL 

luE  first  part  has  appeared  of  a  roiefiuc  of  OoMeirs 
Budmied  Hv^ory  of  Bitgland.  This  part,  which, 
eiUfiding  to  eighty  pasea,  ia  a  man'et  of  eheapnesa. 
14  profoiely  illustrated,  and  contains  one  colon  red 
tniraviog  presenting  the  signature  of  Magna  Charta* 
Miny  of  tbe  illuetrations  are  fuH-ptHje,  The  same 
inn  Msns  a  memorial  number  of  their  P^nny  Ma^a- 
M)«, 'Victoria,  4,jueen  and  Elmpr^ss,' whioh  seems 
^iBcd  to  an  immense  cireulatton. 

Tn  Potiir  ami  Art  Coii^or  begins  this  year  a 
hn  Tolame.  A  marked  improvement  id  the 
duaeter  of  the  illustrations  is  apparent,  and  manv 
ti  Hm  contributions  bave  value  and  interest  botn 
irtittie  and  antiquarian* 

Tn  LQirary  supplies  a  capital  portrait  of  ^t. 
Uofjold  Delisle,  tne  doym  of  librarians,  accom- 
laaied  by  a  short  memoir.  In  *  Un  Certain  Quo- 
Utkim  in  Walton's  *^  Angler,"'  Mr.  Austin  Dobson 
prww  that  Xaaac  Walton  was  not  influenced  by 
llw  advice  oi  the  celebrated  Dr.  Routb,  who, 
It  11  tme^  was  not  bom  till  a  couple  of  centuries 
Uter,  to  verify  bia  quotations,  Ko  far  astray  doe-"i 
WilU}n  go  in  this  respect  that  when  his  memory 
fuli  bim  be  avowadly  improvises.  It  ntuat  b^ 
recoenbered  that  in  bin  day  facilities  of  verification 
wets  not  many.  Mr.  W.  Y.  Fletcher  has  a  good 
p^  QQ  'Collectors  of  Hroad^iides/  the  moat 
wttiMfit  of  whom  in  theae  later  days  is  the  Earl  of 
CtiTfoid.  Writing  on  *The  Juvenile  LibrarVt* 
Mr.  W,  £.  iL  Axon  draws  attention  to  early 
eootHbations  of  T.  Lb  Peacock,  Fox,  the  famous 
Mibir  for  Oldham,  and  De  Quincey.  These  are 
coriflu and  jnteresllng.  Mr,  Robert  Proctor  w rites 
•wwerniag  the  latest  a^lditiotis  to  our  knowledge  of 
'The  Gutenberg  Bible,'  Some  good  reproductions 
<n  ftroQ  by  Mr.  Oscar  Jennings  of  initial  letters 
nun  inennabnla  and  early  works  of  the  sixteenth 
ptMy.  Mr.  U.  R  Plomer  tells  the  sad  story  of 
SjBphin  Valienger,  and  Mr.  A.  W.  Pollard  sends 
aJladitatioD  on  Directoriea'and  'Notes  on  Books 
"rfWotk,* 


111  btvit  munb 


ih€  ExLibrU  Socki^^    (Black.)— 
it  of  this  periodica/j  Mtili  edited 


by  Mr.  W.  H.  K.  Wright,  gives  tba  particulars  of 
the  recent  winter  meeting,  and  quotes  in  full  the 
speech  delivered  by  Sir  James  Balfour  Paul,  the 
Lyon  King  of  Arms,  From  this  it  seems  that  the 
condition  of  the  Society  is  still  prosperous,  and  that 
the  opposition,  concerning  which  some  rumours  had 
been  heard,  is  wholly  trivial  in  influence,  JSorae 
discuftsion  took  place  at  the  meeting?  as  to  the 
expediency  of  converting  the  Jmirncd  of  the  Society 
i  n  to  a  q  uartc  rl  ^.  Tbi  s  seom  e  an  exce  He  n  t  idea.  It 
ia  Rcarcely  ixwwible  for  one  man,  however  exemplary 
may  be  his  assidnity  in  the  discharge  of  his 
lunctions*  to  bring  forward  with  punctuality  a 
dozen  publications  in  a  year.  This  task  has,  how- 
ever j  boeu  impoaed  on  Mr,  Wright  for  a  decade. 

The  most  intoreating  article  in  the  Fortmohliy 
conaiats  of  Mr.  Andrew  Lang's  eommenU  on  'The 
Golden  Bough/    While  ji elding  a  warm  tribute  to 
Dr.    Frawr    for    the    erudition    displayed    in    his 
book,   to  which  we  referred  but  a  fortnight  ago 
(see  atite^  p.  79),  Mr.  Lang  di^aentfl  from  the  main 
argument,   and    also    from    some   subsidiary    con- 
clusiona.    As  the  author  of  'Custom  and  Myth/ 
*Mytb,  Ritualism,  and  Religion,'  and  other  works 
of  the  class,  Mr*  Lang  ia  entitled  to  speak.     We 
claim  no  canaeiti^  to  enter  into  the  fray,  but  ahall 
watch  with  keen  Interest  for  Dr.  Frazer*B  rejoinder. 
To  this  extent  are  we  jiartisaus  of  his,   that  we 
ahall  bci  sorry  to  have  to  give  up  the  ingenious  and 
Lieautiful  theory  he  has  originated  and  eloquently 
expounded.    Mrs,  (?)  Virginia  M,  Crawford  writes 
on  Coventry  Patnjore,  and,  though  warmly  eulo- 
gistic,   substitute    the    language    of    sanity   for 
that  of  extravagance,  which  haa  been  constantly 
employed  in  sj^eaking  of  him.    It  seema  likea  return 
to  commcn  sense  to  hear  that  distinction  of  thought 
sometimes  failed  him  in  verse,  and  that  his  ear 
vffould  at  times  *' be  satisfied  with  the  commonaat, 
the  most  obvious  of  rhymes,  and  he  could  tolerate 
a    triviality    of    language   quite   out    of    harmony 
with  his  theme."    M  r.  Maarten  Maartens  sends  a 
brilliant  picture  of  feminine  perversity,  and  Geoi^e 
Pas  ton    gives    some    *  Eighteenth  -  Century    Love- 
flitters,*  which  have  a  rather  aorrowful  interest. 
Mr.  Rudyard  Kipling^a  *  Railway  Reform  in  Great 
Britain, '  which    opens    the    number,  ia   a   vastly 
FkUiuning  squib,— Alone,  ao  far  as  our  observation 
tixterids,  among  monthly  magazines,  the  Nineteenth 
Cenlnrj/  appears  with  a  mourning  cover  and  with 
several  pages  also  in  mourniug.     It  has  a  sonnet  on 
the  illustrious  dead  by  Kir  Theodore  Martin,  and  some 
further  praise  of  the  praised  of  all.    Bir  Wemyss 
Reid    also,    in    his    customary    monthly    record, 
writes  on  *  The  Uueen,'  and  is  severe  upon  "  the 
Ministry  of  M i seal culat ions,"  attributing  her  death 
—in  part,  at  least— to  the  recent  strain  upcm  her 
powers.    It  is  not  often  that  the  public  is  afforded 
such  an  insight  into  the  life  of  an  Oriental  potentate 
aa  is  furnished  in  *  Mv  Ways  and  Days  in  Kurope 
and  in  India,' by  the  Maharajah  Gaekwar  of  Baroda. 
His  Highnesses  time  is,  according  to  his  own  account, 
fully  occupied,  and  the  record  of  hia  proceedings, 
nubiic  and  private,  is  most  honourable.    Dr.  A. 
o  my  the    Palmer,    in    a    notahls    contribution    to 
primitive  culture  and   general  aeholarship,  asks, 
'  What  were  the  Cherubim?'    Not  easy  ia  it  in  a 
phraae  or  two  to  sum  up  his  concluaions*     In  their 
primitive  conception^  however,  they  were^  he  s^"^^ 
^'personifications    of    thos«   wmda  1&^om\b.\i\(:   Xa^ 
vfigetatioQ  wbiiih  were  cho^ii  to  v^otjaxiXi  a.^^  ^^^^asc^ 


120 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9-  s.  vil 


fcioiL"  Thia  supremely  valuable  paper  is  an  out* 
oome  of  Dr.  Smythe  Palmer's  favourite  Babylon i&a 
atudiea,  t<»  which  readers  of  ^N.  &  Q/  Are  more 
indebted  than  most  of  them  are  aware.  Under 
*Uur  Absurd  System  of  puniabing  Crime/  Mr, 
Robert  Anderflon^  C-li.,  plead*  for  more  aevere 
punishment  of  habitual  criminabi  liud  condemns 
the  hysterical  tjeeudo  aentimeuiBLLiam  to  wbicb 
we  are  subject.  Prof.  Fleming  shows,  in  a  paper 
humiliating  to  an  Englishman  to  read,  what  are 
the  official  obetmctions  to  electric  progress.— In 
the  Ptdl  MaU  the  late  Charley  Yriarte  dealfi  with 
*Tho  Kiae  of  the  Romantic  School  in  France.* 
This  i&  naturally  illustrated  from  the  works  of  G^ri- 
cault,  Delacroix,  Dia^^  Roujiseau,  CoiitupCs  Corot, 
Daubignyt  and  other  eminent  [jainters.  An  account 
is  given  of  '  The  Order  of  "  the  Oniona,"  *  which 
would  now  be  caUod  a  log-rolling  society,  and  such 
matters  as  the  drees  of  the  rapitus  are  treated.  Mr. 
George  A*  Wade  i^i^ea  o.  full  description  and  his- 
tory of  10,  Downing  Ktreet^  a  place  the  mention  of 
which  ia  apt  to  pr^uce  a  tingling  senaalion  In  the 
cheeks  of  Englishmen,  '  The  Dress  I  femalej  of 
the  Ninetffentn  Century  *  is  illustrated  from  photo- 
graphs by  Mrs.  Lai  lie  (Jharles.  Mr.  A,  ik  Ualoa 
depicts  *  The  Life  of  a  V\ar  Correspondent.'  Mr. 
Quiller-Coueh^  writing  on  *  The  Novel  in  the  Nine- 
teenth Century,'  is  bright^  as  he  ia  bound  to  be«  but 
indulges  in  tbose  frivolous  coroparisous  between 
things  essentially  unlike  which  are  a  vice  of 
ntodem  criticisni.  Mr.  Alfred  Kin  near,  in  'The 
Ways  of  the  World/  is  arausing.—' Lawful  Plea* 
a  urea  *  is  the  title  Mr.  George  M.  ^imith  gives,  in  the 
OoTTiAt/Zj  to  the  legal  trials  he  has  undergone  in  his 
Hong  e3[penen«e  crt  management  or  proprietorship 
of  various  periodicals.  He  has  been  singularly 
fortunate.  We  remember  being  present  by  sub* 
poena  at  more  than  one  of  the  le^l  caaea  he 
describes,  and  feel  that  the  result  in  one  case, 
at  leasts  would  have  been  difi^erent  had  not 
tJa^e  conduct  of  the  defence  grossly  and  griev- 
ously uiiacarried*  lo  none  of  the  casea  was 
Mr.  Bmitb  peraonallv  reanonaible  for  any  offenoe. 
tSir  Herbert   Mai  well  edits   the   second  part  of 

*  More  Light  on  Ht*  Helena,'  by  Miss  Dorothy 
Mauael  PleydelL  The  present  instalment  is 
pleaaanter  reading  than  was  the  previous.  Mrs. 
Riebmond  Ritehie  continues  her  '  Bkckstiek 
Papers.'  A  vigorons  B.nd  stirring  account^  by  the 
Rev.  W.  H,  Filchett,  of  *Tbe  Great  Mutinv '  is 
occupied  with  tbe  revolt  at  Delhi.  '  On  the  Plea- 
sures of  Teieture/  by  Mr,  Oscar  £ve,  ia  occupied 
with  the  pleasures  of  toueh.  We  can  soarcely 
agree  with  the  writer  in  his  conclusion  that  *'  the 
employment  of  the  touch  sense  as  a  means  of  artistic 
pleasure"  involvea  tn  it«i  pursuit  no  exfiensoi  but 
ahould  hold,  on  the  contrary,  that  indulgence  in  it 
ia  one  of  tbe  costliest  of  enjoymenta.  Much  that 
is  of  immediate  and  vital  interest  is  involved  in 
other  pai.>ers,  with  which  we  may  not  deal.— The 
contents   of   S^^ribjitt^s  are    few,    but    important. 

*  Russia  of  To-day:  Central  Asia,'  is  Qntshed.  It 
ends  with  a  gratifying,  if  rather  unexpected^  tribute 
to  the  civiliz^ing  iniluence  in  Asia  exercised  b^  that 
power.  Thai  most  picturesque  of  existing  trench 
mediieval  citiee,  Carcassonne,  is  considered,  and 
so  me  admirable  illuatrationsoneredof  a  place  whicht 
better  than  almost  any  other,  ureacrves  for  ua  tbe 
M^torea  of  feudal  Europe.     *  Punishment  and  Re- 

Mf^mata  in  t  7h  in  A  *  ^oa  fa  ■a.t'.i  ■tiU^f.rkPi  1  v  uri  t.  h  nn  Jt  nf  t  h  a 


cem  us,  but  are  of  great  general 
'  number  is  excellent,  but  reaches  uj 
further  comment.— In  the  QtntUman 
Cord  ley  writes  pn  *  Bhakespeace** 
(Jeorgiana  Hill  on  *  Diplomatic  Ett 
Seventeenth  Century,'  Mr.  H,  M 
*The  Flays  of  John  Ford  '  and  M 
Rubin  s  toi  n.  '  The  Re  vol  t  of  t  h  c  f:5ia  te 
Jebb,  presents  the  atrugglea  of  the 
Royal.  '  Tales  of  the  Mist '  consists 
of^  dangers  and  escapes  on  the  Cu 
Westmoreland  hills.  — Madame  dc  8t 
ject,  in  l/pngman'fi,  of  No.  V.  of  M 
'Women  of  the  Salons."  A  vivacic 
given  of  this  remarkable  woman,  so 
of  her  eijoch*  whose  chance  of  r 
nosition  she  once  occupied  depends  i 
Mr.  John  IsaheH  gives  a  very  in 
curious  account  of  *  Fishes  and  the 
'At  the  ^ign  of  the  Hliip'  Mr.  l^ni 
with  Dr.  Prajicrs  Mi  a  Id  en  Bough/ 
treats  more  fuUy  in  the  Forfni^h 
breaks  out  into  narrative,  and  te 
eminently  melo<ira  ma  tic  story  of  'T 
8iiot,*  which  ahould  surely  furnish 
a  dramatist. 


Wt  mu^  call  special  atUntion   io 

On  all  communications  must  be  wri 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  neces 
licatiou,  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  fs 
W^E  cannot  undertake  to  answer  44 ut 
Tq  secure  insertion  of  communi 
spoudenta  must  observe  the  foUowi 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written 
slip  of  Tiaper,  with  the  signature  of  1 
such  address  aa  he  wishes  to  appear, 
ing  i^ueries,  or  making  notes  with  regf 
entries  in  the  i>a|5er,  contribut<irs  ar 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  aj 
noading,  tbe  series,  volume,  and  |iajj 
which  they  refer.  Corres|x>udent* 
queries  are  requested  to  head  thi; 
munioation  *^  Duplicate.*' 

H.  B.  S.  {'*  Disraeli  •l.-^The  Eat 
field,*  by  Proud c  (seventh  edition,  Jjan 
probably  tis  good  a.^^  anything  extant, 
the  real  intimate  hiogranhy  is  not 
though  in  tbe  hands  of  Lortl  Kowt^ 
of  no  edition  of  Disraeli^a  lettcra. 

Nkmo.— 
Great  is  the  crime  in  man  or  wur 
Who  flteals  the  goose  from  off  tht 
But  who  shiill  I  Jead  that  man'^  c 
Who  steals  the  common  from  tht 

Authorship  unknown,    ^ee  7"^  S.  vi 

27a 

NO  TICK. 

Editorial  Communications  ahould  I 

**The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries 

ments  and  Business  Lettet^  to  '*  Tht 

at  the  Udiee,  Bream  s Buildings, C banc 


t»&viLFn.9.i9oi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


The  ATHKNAiU^/or  February  t  coniainM  ArtieU*  on 

POLITICAL  TH10RIB8  of  the  MIDDLB  AOB8. 

UFB  of  PHILLIP.4  BEOOKS. 

lUL  BOUKDV  8TUDIXB  In  PBBKAOB  ud  OBNBALOOT. 

Mm  AMTHOLOOT  of  FRBNCH  POBTRT. 

DOmftDAY  and  FBTDAL  STATISTICS. 

GUMm  Ln-BRATUKB. 

IBWX0VBL8:— The  Minor  Ouiont  Free  to  Senre;  Lore  liM  no 

Rtr  i  Tontitlon  Moitolle. 
BOOM  urn  the  WAR. 
KHOOL-BOOXS. 
TALBS  of  ADVBNTITRB. 
BBLICAL  CRITICISM. 
B0OX4  of  TRATBL. 

QUE  LIBRARY  TABLB-LI8T  of  HBW  BOOKS. 
MLTIBRY'S  BIBUOORAFHY  ol  the  '4S;  HUOHOWN  ;  BOROBR'B 

'UMURB';  BALB. 
UTIEAKT  0088IP. 

KmiGI:— AtCronomiflnl    Lttenfiwe;  ChemlenI    Mofeeo;    SoeieUee: 
MmU^  Next  Week ;  Ooaelp. 

im  ABTB :— Olorfione  ;  Llbimry  Tftble ;  Royal  Ami»mj  -,  OoMlp. 

lnmc>-a«noker's  Life  of  Chopin;  Yerdl;  Poijoaymoiis  Opems; 
Goalpi  Perforaaneee  next  Week. 

tAXA-HMOBfie  OB  the  Thenira  In  Fnnee  and  BnRland ;  Ubimry 


TktATHRffjSUMfw  January  19  eontauu  ArticUi  on 

mTlRBOH  la  the  SOUTH  SBAB. 

na  TEUTH  ABOirr  OMAR. 

CaiBTB  OOLLBOB,  CAMBRIDOK 

tttUK  PLANT.  STUMB,  and  ANIMAL  WORSHIP. 

Litton  of  NBWPORT  FAOM BLL. 

KKJCAnOMAL  BOOKS. 

VOBIB  aad  PA8TIMB8. 

sua  PHILOSOPHY. 

ttOHTYBBBB. 

»OUBH  PHILOLOGY. 

ODl  UBEARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

^  UT8  BISHOP   of  LONDON ;  DR.  CRBIGHTON  aa  a  CLASS 

TUCHBRi    "FIRB  OUT"   In  LITBRARY  BNOUSH;  CHAN- 

CILLOR   CHRI8TIB;   The  THBORIBS  aa  to  HUCHOWH;  DR. 

V08I8  OOIT  TYLBR;  The  INOORPORATBD  ASSOCIATION  of 

RU0MA8TBR8. 

JfliUEY  ooesip. 

*^CI>.Iibffar7  TaUe;  Atlaaee  aad  Mapa;  SodeUet;  Meetlnirs 

Hot  Week  tOoaalp. 
'^4m>^ailppeadaie  Faraitore;   Books  tor  Stvdentcs    Dudley 

OiUny  LaBdaeape,BxhiUtioa  ;  Sale ;  OoMip. 
>^>-ne  Week ;  Ooaalp ;  Performaaoea  Next  Week. 
^tJU:-Aa  Aatofimph  Play  of  Philip  MaMlnger;  Aa  Unknown 

"■y  ABartaa  to  Shafcapeare :  Ooaalp 


TTu  A  TUENjKU  \t  for  January  fS6  contains  Article*  "n 

RB00RD8  of  the  NAYY. 

The  GOTHAM  STORIES. 

WINCHB8TBR. 

BNOLAND  aad  YBNICB  In  the  8BYBNTBBNTH  CBNTURY. 

NBW  NOYBL8:-.The  Wastrel;   A  Prlncese  of  Aroady;  A  Mlaalnff 
Hero ;  The  Learen  of  Lore ;  Fortnnau  Roman. 

AMERICAN  LITBRATURB. 
GBNBALOGICAL  LITBRATURB. 
ORIENTAL  LITERATURE. 
NAYAL  and  MILITARY  BOOKS. 
ANTIQUARIAN  LITERATURE. 
OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
Mr.  F.  W.  H.   MYERS;    HUCHOWN;    AGE-LIMIT  In    HIGHER- 
GRADE  SCHOOLS;  The DUC  de  BROGLIB;  BALES. 
Auo- 
LITBRARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE:— Recent  Publications;    Astronomical  Notes;   Societies i 

MeetinfB  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
FINE  ARTS :— Roman  Art ;  New  Priato ;  Bales ;  Gosalp. 
MUSIC :— life  of  Wasaer ;  Qneea  Ylctoria's  AppredaUoa  of  Music  and 


DRAMA  :-Mable's  Life  Of  Shakespeare ;  Reovnt  Plays ;  Gossip. 


The  ATUBNAiUM  for  January  It  oontaine  Articles  on 
TWO  CELTIC  POETS. 

LEADING  DOCUMENTS  of  ENGLISH  HISTORY. 
MADAGASCAR  aad  MAURITIUS. 
ABERDBBNSHIRE  PLACE-NAMES. 
RECORDS  Of  HAMMURABL 
ORIENTAL  STUDY  la  BERLIN. 
NBW  NOYBLS:-Dr.  North  aad  Ms  Frieads;    The  Inner  Shriac; 

DeaooB  Bradlmry. 

MILITARY  BOOKS. 

ETHNOLOGY  aad  FOLK-LORE. 

NBW  TESTAMENT  LITERATURE. 

SHORT  STORIES. 

CLASSICAL  PHILOLOGY. 

POLITICAL  BOONOMY  and  HISTORY. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

S0PHU8  8CHANDORPH  ;  COPYRIGHT  in  SERIAL  MATTER  ;  The 

THBORIBS  aa  to  HUCHOWN  ;  A  RBCLAMATION ;  DEATH  of 

KING  ALFRED. 

Aug— 
LITBRARY  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE :— St.  Kllda ;  Medical  Books ;  Gecffraphlcal  Notes ;  Societies ; 

Meettncs  Next  Week  ;  Oosilp. 
FINE  ARTS :— Scottish  Market  Crosses ;  Library  TaUe  ;  Gossip. 
MUSIC :— The  Week ;  Goeslp;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA :— The  Week ;  Gossip. 


ne  ATHENjEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    C.     FfiANCIS.    AthenaBum    Office,    Bream's  fiaildings,    Chancery  Lace,   E.0 

ADd  of  all  A'ewsageots. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9»8.vilfd.  0,1901. 
Meaars.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DEPARTMBNT 


TKK  louowzve 


MAOAZIHBS  AND 
BBVI1SW8. 


WITHDRAWN  FBOM 
OIBOUIATION, 


LIBRARY  COPIES 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 


Until  farther  notioe  t— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


Argoty 

Blaokwood't     

Century 

Contemporary  Beview 

OomhtU 

BngUtb  Illuttnted  ... 
Fortnightly  Beview  ... 
Uarpe^t 


...  7  6 

...  18  0 

...  10  6 

...  16  0 

...  7  a 

...  6  0 

...  16  0 

...  9  0 


Longman's       

Meomlllan't     

National  Beview 
Nineteenth  Century  ... 

Pall  liall  

Bevue  dee  Deux  Mondes 

Scribner*!         

Temple  Bar      


«.  d. 
6    0 


7 

15 
16 

8 
90 

7 

7 


QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
Bdintmrgh       7    6 1  Quarterly  7    6 

The  terms  will  be  It,  6d.  per  annam  less  to  Sabsoribers  living  safficiently  near  the  Bookstalls  to 
have  the  Magasines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  than 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  sabicribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinaed. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAT  OOMMENOIB  AT  ANT  DATS. 


A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.       H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  Railway  BookitdlUt  to  which  plaee$  they  will  he  forwarded  earriage  free, 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED. 

OBITTUBY  MAOAZINB.  The.    Vol*.  17.  90,  and  32      

ATALANTA  MAOAZINB.    Vol.  6     

LONDON  tiOGIBTir.    3  voU.  for  1891         

a  volt,  for  1803         

OASSBLL'S  MAOAZINB.    Vol.  for  D«cember,  1808,  to  May,  1899.    Illustrated 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       

OHAMBBBS'S  JOUBNAL  of  POPULAB  LITBBATUBB,  SCIBNCB,  and  ABTS.    Vol.  for  1893... 

Vol.  for  1896  . 

Vol.  for  1896  . 


PaUlibed  Of 


each 


Vol.  for  1897  ... 
Vol.  for  1898  ... 
Vol.  for  1899  ... 


QUIVBB  VOLUMB.    November.  1897,  to  April.  1H98    ... 

November,  1»98,  to  April,  1899    ... 

May  to  October.  1899  

GOOD  WOBDS.    VoU.  for  1888,  1893, 1894. 1895,  1896,  1897,  and  1898 
SUNDAY  MAOAZINB.    VoU.  for  1889,  1893,  1894.  1895, 1806,  and  1898 


W.  H.  SMITH  k,  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186.  STRAND,  LONDON. 

Aad  at  over  600  Bailiray  BooketalU.  to  which  placet  Subscribers  can  be  transferred,  free  of  charge 

PntptetHi  of  Term,  4«..  stiil  /tm  a^oii  ajp^icoMon  to  186.  STRAND^  LONDOS. 

f»Mt9d  tr  JOHN  MDWARD  FRANCM.  AUiSMattPrseii^RresB's  Bnlldtnirs.  Chanoeiy  Lue.  R  C. ;  and  PaUlshed  b* 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 

i  P^Mnm  of  liiuerfommnnuatiDn 


roB 


LITERARY     MEN,     GENERAL    READERS,     ETC. 

"When  foTud,  make  a  note  of."— Captain  Cuttla. 


No.  164,  [b^^'™.]  Saturday,  February  16,  1901.       { M!i^l^^!J^. 

HENRY    SOTHERAN    &    CO., 

BOOKSELLERS    AND    LIBRARY    AGENTS. 

KEW  BOOKS,  MAGAZINES,  and  NEWSPAPERS,  inclading  FOREIGN  LITERATUREi 

sapplied  promptly  on  discount  ternis. 

BOUND  BOOKS.— Their  stock  is  large  and  varied  ;  and  customers  can  rely  on  the  BINDING  OF 
THEIR  OWN  BOOKS  being  execated  with  every  care  for  their  instmctions.  STRONG 
CHEAP  BINDING  for  Public  Libraries  and  Book  Societies. 

SECONDHAND  BOOES.-Their  MONTHLY  CATALOGUE  (known  as  SOTHERAN'S  PRICE- 
CURRENT  of  LITERATURE),  published  in  the  middle  of  each  month  for  over  fifty  years, 
will  be  sent  on  application.  They  guarantee  all  diligence  in  FINDING  BOOKS,  however 
unimportant  or  obscure,  and  execute  with  discretion  COMMISSIONS  AT  AUCTION. 

EIPQBT  DEPARTMENT.— To  this  all  the  above  points  apply  ;  but  they  will  be  glad  to  give  any 
ioformation  as  to  terms  or  details,  or  references,  if  desired,  to  a  olienUle  unusually  representative 
throughout  the  world. 

ENGRAVINGS  and  AUTOGRAPHS.— A  considerable  collection  of  these  will  be  found  at  their  West- 
End  House,  37,  PICCADILLY,  and  special  Catalogues  are  there  issued  occasionally. 

LIBRARY  ARRANGEMENT.— They  can  give  expert  attention  to  the  complete  FITTING-UP  of 
PUBLIC  or  PRIVATE  LIBRARIES,  including  the  supply  of  LIBRARY  FURNITURE; 
and  to  the  ARRANGEMENT  and  IMPROVEMENT  of  existing  Libraries,  and  the  execution 
of  a  LIBRARY  CATALOGUE. 


BOOK-BUYING    DEPARTMENT. 

They  can  always,  at  short  notice,  inspect  and  value  Libraries  or  smaller  Collections  of 
Books,  in  Town  or  Country,  and  remove  them  on  purchase  for  cash,  without  expense  or 
trouble  to  the  SeUer.    THEY  ALSO  VALUE  FOR  INSURANCE  OR  PROBATE. 


CENTRAL  HOUSE:     140  (late   136),   STRAND,   W.C;  near  Waterloo  Bridge. 
WEST-END  HOUSE :  37,  PICCADILLY,  W.,  opposite  St  James's  Church. 

lilignipfaic  AddreiB :  Bookmsn,  hojSDON,  Codes :  Unicode  ic  A  B  C.  Founded  mTo^ei^Uoi^X^C^X.^  A'^^^^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      {9«''8.vu.fh».i6.i»oi. 


3  Toll.  4to,  Ulnstnted,  r*d  baeluam,  gUt.  price  I0«. 

THE   LITTLE   BISD   BOOK   OF 
BRISTOL. 

Pttbliihed  under  Uie  Authority  of  the  Counoll  of  the  Ctty  and  County 
of  Bristol. 

Bdiied  by  FRAN0I8  B.  BIOKLET, 

AMistant  In  the  Department  of  MfiS..  British  M ueenm. 


Thii  important  hUtorical  resistor,  orifrinated  in  1344.  eoTors  a  period 
of  IfiO  years,  and  records  the  liberties,  franchises,  and  consUtutions  of 
the  town,  many  eeeleslastlcai  foundatinns.  and  a  most  interesting  series 
of  trade  gnUda.  The  Tolnmes  throw  great  light  on  the  habiU  and  life 
of  the  cftisens ;  and  to  the  student  of  philology  many  euunplef  are 
alforded  of  archaic  and  obsolete  words. 

To  all  interested  in  eariy  municipal  history  these  Tolnmes  contain 
much  of  interest  and  importance. 


Bristol:  W.  CROFrON  HBMM0N8.  BT.  STEPHEN  8T&BBT. 
Lottdon :  80THBBAM  ±  CO.  Booksellers.  STRAND. 


O 


,NB    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES.      Engraved 

on  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MORING. 

Foap.  4to.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Blocks  on  Hand-made 
Paper,  bound  in  artistic  boards,  lis.  (kL  net. 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Engraved  on  Ck)pper. 

By  THOMAS  MORINO. 

Uniform  with  the  abore.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Plates 

on  Hand-made  Paper,  2S«.  net. 

THOMAS  MORmO. 
The  De  la  More  Press,  fiS,  High  Holbore.  London.  WO. 


NEW  EDITION,  price  Two  ShUiings. 

/CELESTIAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    of 

y^    Astronomy.    Ninth  Edition.    With  S  Plates.    By  W.  T.  LYNN, 
B.A.  F.E.A.S. 

'•  Has,  we  are  glad  to  see.  reached  a  ninth  editioa,  which  enables  thU 
•zoellent  introduction  to  the  fheu  of  astronomy  to  be  brought  up  to 
date."— Onorrfian. 

SAMPSON  LOW  *  CO.,  St.  Dunatan'a  House,  Fetter  Lane,  BO. 

STICKPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Oum  for  sticking  in  Scraps,  loining  Papers,  Ac.  U.  and  It.  with 
•trong.  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy).  Send  two  stamps  to  coTcr  postage 
lor  a  sample  Bottle,  ineiading  Brush.  Faecory,  Sugar  Loaf  Court, 
LeadenhaU  Street,  E.O.    Of  aU  Stationers.    Stickphast  Paste  sticks. 

WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFF££— S  OGAIU-TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 

SOHWBPFBS  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  Intemattoaal 
Exhibitioa,  Paris,  1900. 

SGHWEPPE8  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda. 

THESE  WATERd  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &Cm&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continue  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

(  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:—  ^ 
^SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,  > 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QDARTS.  J 

ScHWEPPES,  LTD.,  LONDON,  MaLVERN, 

OlU^/eotr,  LlTMtWOOL,  SaiBTOL,  BYDKMY,  Sb4  MBLBOUBMB. 


B'^ 


PRIVATE  SECRETARYSHIP  to  a  GENTLEMAN 
WANTED  br  a  BAJL&I8TEB.  affed  SS  (B. A.  Ozon.  with  Hononrs), 
to  replace  a  similar  appoiBtm<>nt  jnst  terminatinir.  ExoeUent  tM«i- 
monials  from  present  employer.— Applv  by  letter  to  C,  care  of  Messrs. 
Hepworth  *  Co  ,  l&,  South  Street.  Finsbury.  E.C. 

GOES,  M88.,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HoDGSUN  ic 
00..  Auctioneers  of  Books  and  Literary  Property  of  erery 
description.  Libraries  and  smaller  Colleetions  carefuUy  Uatalofued 
and  promptly  offered  for  Sale.  Paekinir  and  KemoTal  arranged  for. 
Valuations  made  for  Probate  or  other  purposes.  Auction  Komns.  U». 
Chaneery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end).    Established  1809 

/^ULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

^^  for  Searches  and  AutheaUc  Information  respeetiac 

ARMO&IAL    BBAJLINOS   AND   FAMILY    DESCENTS, 

With  a  Separate  Department  for  the  ArtisUe  Prodaetion   of 

HERALDIO  PAINTING  AND  BNORAVINO. 

Booh-Platea.  Seals.  Dies,  Slffnet  aings.  Urery  Buttons,  Created  Hote- 

Faper,  Tlalting  and  Inritation  Oards,  *e. 

8S.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Oreea  FariL). 


OOKS.— ALL    ODT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS    sup- 

'  pUed.  no  matter  on  what  Subject.  Acknowledged  the  world  orer 
as  the  most  expert  Bookflnders  extant.  Piess«  suite  wants.— BAKEB'S 
Great  Bookshop.  14-16,  John  Bright  Street.  Blrmiaghaas. 


B^ 


FIRST    EDITIONS    of    MODERN    AUTHORS, 
including  Dickens.  Thackeray.  LoTcr.  Alnsworth;  Books  lUns- 


by  O.  and  R.  Cruikshank,  PhU.  Uowiandson.  Leech,  te.  The 
largest  and  choicest  Colleotlon  oSiBred  for  Sale  in  the  World.  Oa»- 
logues  issued  and  sent  port  free  on  appllcaUon.  Books  boaght.— 
V^LLTER  T.  SPENCER.  27,  New  OzfoiTStreet.  Loadoa.  W.a 

and 


N 


EWSVENDORS'      BENEVOLENT 

PROVIDENT  INSTITUTION. 

Patron : 

The  Right  Hon.  the  EARL  of  ROSEBEEY.  K.G. 


The  Right  Hon.  LORD  GLENESK. 
Sir  W.  J.  UCHMOND  COTTON. 
Established  in  U89  for  granting  Pensions  and  Tampoiary  Aaalsvanee 

to  principals  or  aasistaau  engaged  as  readCMv  of  a 

.A  Donauon  of  Ten  C 

three  TOtes  for  life  at  a 

glTos  a  Tote  at  all  eiecttons  for  life.  ETcry  Annual  Babaeriber  ia 
entitled  to  one  Tote  at  aU  eleotiens  in  respect  of  caeh  FIts  ShlUiiigs  eo 
paid. 

Erery  man  and  woman  throughost  the  United  Kingdom,  whether 
publisher,  wholesaler.  retaUer,  employer  or  employed,  is  entiUed  ta 
become  a  member  upon  payment  of  nre  Shillings  aaanaUy  or  Thiae 
Guineas  for  UIm,  proTided  that  he  or  she  U  engaged  ia  the  sale  of 


utaau  engaged  as  readCMv  of  aewspMers. 

"en  Guineas  constitutes  a  ▼loe-Prs«ident  and  giTos 

at  aU  elections.    Bach  donation  of  Three  Gumeao 


now  number  thirty-elx.  the  men  reeelTing  ai.  and 


newspapers. 

The  Annuitants  .w.,  ..^»«.  .»..,-.^,  »„ 
the  women  SOL  per  annum  each.    TiMee  Pensloas.  a 
800L  par  annum,  are  aU  paid  from  the  dlTidends 
iATOsted  capital  of  the  Instttntion. 

The  "Royal  Tictorla  Pensioa  Fund"  was  established  ia  ISST.  It 
proTides  peasieas  of  SOL  a  year  each  for  four  widows  of  aewsToadot*. 

The  "Fimacis  Fuad"  proTidee  pennons  for  one  man  »L  and  tmm 

Temporary  Relief  is  glTen,  not  only  to  Members,  but  to  aewBraadon 
or  their  senraau  who  may  be  reoommeaded  for  assisiaaee  by  Mombera. 
Inquiry  is  made  and  relief  awarded  in  acoordanoe  with  the  martte  of 
•Mh  ease.  W.  WILKIE  JONES,  Seetetary. 

Memorial  HaU  BuUdings.  farriagdoa  Street.  E.C. 


ATHENE  UM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Priater  of  the  Atkmmuwt.  AM*«  mnd  Qmmtt,  fte..  is 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  ali  kiada  of  BOOK.  NEI^s! 
aad^ERIODlCAL  PRINTING.— U,  Bream's  BuUdiags.  Cteaeenr 
lAae,  E.C. 


'^PHE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER-PAJ). 

X    (Tta«  LEADEN  HALL  PRESS.  Ltd..  Pubilshaia  aad  Prlafiera 
50.  Leeaeahall  ScraoK.  Loadoa,  E.0.> 

Coataios  hairless  paper.  Ofor  which  Us  pea  sUns  with  perfeet 
firoMom.  8txp«nc««Mh.  »«.  per  doien.  raled  or  plala.  NewKikat 
Sise,  is.  per  dosen,  ruled  or  piala. 

Author*  should  note  that  The  LeadenhaU  Pnaa,  Ltd.,  eaaaot  to 
respuaaiblc  tor  the  loss  of  MdS  oy  Are  or  otherwlaa.    ITipheaia  ispiu 


g»  8.  vn.  Feb.  18,190!.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


121 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  FEBRUARY  18,  1901, 


J 


CONTENTS. -No.  161 

HOTBS :— Bxecntions  at  Tyburn  and  Blsewhere,  131— Jesse 
and  8e1w3ni,  122  -Father  of  Baatace  fltz  John,  123  — 
**Band7-legffed  "— "  Knook-kneed,"  124  —  *•  Billycock  "— 
** Better  to  bave  loved  and  lost"— "  Manurance"— Fore- 
ooart  at  Ashbamham  House,  125 -Human  Remains  at 
Machen— Memorial  ti*  Buskin- Relic  of  Handel— Book  of 
Common  Prayer— Heads  or  Tails,  124- Lodge  and  White, 
Lord  Mayors  of  London— Mint  Price  of  Ck>ld,  127. 

QUBRIB8  t~'*Le  treoente  oariohe  "—Serjeant  Bettesworth, 
127  -•  The  Thirteen  Olub '- **  Pat  a  spoke  In  tbe  wheel  "— 
Stanbory  of  Devon  and  Oom wall —** Bull  and  Last"— 
Mohan  of  Wollaston— Hamilton— High  and  Low;  Con- 
servative and  Liberal— Forth  Family  and  Arms— Mackin- 
tosh—Joamallstio  Brron,  128— Byfleld  Family— Daven- 
port-Hulme  —  "So  long"  —  Waurom  —  Friar's  Orag, 
Derwentwater  —  Duration  of  Life  in  Seeds  —  Hultson 
Family— J.  J.  Morier— Ohinese  Discovery  of  America- 
Waller  Family,  ia9-"Nunty."  130. 

MBPLIB8 :  —  Nature  Myths  — **  Shimmonel "  —  Ohavasse 
Family,  190 -Lamb  and  *The  Champion '—**  Smous  "— 
Welsh  MS.  Pedigrees.  131— Losses  in  the  American  Civil 
War— Seneca  and  Oalen :  Translations,  132— Achill  Island 
— Barly  Steam  Navigation—**  Pin  and  Bowl  "  133— Woore, 
fn  Salop— ** Thackeray's  bed  books"— Sir  W.  F.  Carroll, 
134— Broken  on  the  Wheel— Andent  Marriage  Custom- 
National  Nicknames— Healing  Stone— Wine  in  the  Rarly 
Church  —  *•  Roker  "  —  WyvilT  Baronetcy,  136  —  Easter 
Ma^Uuit- Quaint  Custom— Boulder  Stones,  13fl— **  In  the 
swim  "  —  Beardshaw  —  Sohool-Teaohers  in  Kent— Corpse 
on  Shipboard —  **  Bijou "  as  a  Christian  Name,  137  — 
Deftnition  of  Gratitude,  138. 

NOTKS  ON  BOOKS:— The  *  New  English  Dictionary'- 
*  An  Bngllsh  Miscellany '— '  Acts  of  the  Privy  Oounofl  '— 
ShuekbiurKh's  Translation  of  Cicero's  Letters—*  History  of 
Bariy  Italian  Literature.' 

NoUeas  to  0(»Tespondent8. 


9ott%. 

EXECUTIONS  AT  TYBURN  AND 
ELSEWHERE. 

Ungbbtaintt  exists  as  to  the  period  when 
execations  first  took  place  at  Tyburn,  and  as 
to  the  actual  site  of  the  gallows.    The  subject 
was  before  the   readers   of   'N.    &   Q/   in 
I*  S.  iL,  2»*  S.  iii.,  and  4*^  S.  ii.,  and  on  the 
second  of  these  occasions  reference  was  made 
to  the  execution  of  William  Fitz  Osbert,  called 
"  Longbeard,"   at   Tyburn,    in    1196.     This 
being  an  early  period    in    London  history, 
during  which  the  usual  place  of  death  was 
at  the  Elms  of  Smithfield,  I  have  carefully 
eumined  all  mention  of  the  execution  by 
chroniclers  and  historians,  and  think  it  may 
oe  well  to  record  the  evidence  in  *  N.  &  Q.,' 
nther  than  leave  it  to  oblivion  in  my  note- 
hook. 

Rrst,  as  to  the  site  in  Tyburn.  The  area 
0^,  the  ancient  Domesday  manor  is  undeter- 
nuned,  and  its  extension  along  the  old  Roman 
Way  ^now  Oxford  Street)  is  ntill  an  unsettled 
JoestioiL  Its  eastern  boundary,  correspond- 
M  with  Tottenham  Court  Road,  is  accepted, 
oDt  its  western  limit  is  disputed.  For  al- 
UOQ^  another  Dcmeedaj^  aumor,  viz.,  Lile- 


stone,^  may  be  proved  to  have  reached  down 
to  the  same  Roman  Wav,  and  to  have  ex- 
tended along  it  from  the  bourn,  where  is  now 
Stratford  Place,  to  the  other  Roman  Way 
corresponding  with  Edgware  Road,  yet  there 
is  very  good  reason  to  believe  that  Tyburn 
manor  stretched  westward  across  the  West- 
bourne  (or  Bayswater)  district.  Could  this 
be  established,  it  would  appear  that  Lilestone 
was  an  intersecting  manor,  and  that  Tyburn 
manor  lay  both  eastward  and  westward  of 
Lilestone.  But  this  difficult  question,  which 
awaits  further  research  for  its  solution,  I  do 
not  venture  to  discuss,  and  refer  to  it  only  as 
affecting  the  place  of  the  earliest  Tyburn 
executions. 

In  this  connexion  I  suppose  it  is  generally 
imagined  that  at  the  execution  of  Ix>nj;beara 
and  others  the  gallows  were  erected  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  hamlet  which  clustered  around 
—or  at  least  was  not  far  removed  from— the 
little  church  of  St.  Johnt  by  the  side  of  the 
old  road  where  it  was  crossed  by  the  Ey 
Bourn  or  Ty  Bourn.  Yet  as  this  place  was 
so  far  from  London  (some  three  miles  from 
the  Tower)  when  we  have  first  mention  of 
Tyburn  as  the  place  of  execution,  it  has  been 
suggested  that  the  gallows  may  have  been  set 
up  just  within  the  limit  of  Tyburn  manor 
— that  is  to  say,  just  beyond  the  walls  of 
St.  Giles's  Hospital,  where  it  is  certainly 
known  a  later  execution  did  take  place. 
This  would  have  reduced  the  distance  by  a 
mile.  On  the  other  hand,  a  valued  contributor 
to  these  pages— who  allows  me  to  ventilate  the 
idea— thinks  itpossible  that  at  the  meeting 
of  the  Roman  Ways,  where  is  now  the  Marble 
Arch,  the  powerful  lords  of  Tyburn,  the  De 
Veres,  may  have  exercised  tneir  manorial 
right  of  the  gallows,  and  that  the  place  thus 
established  may  have  become  that  of  execu- 
tions generally.  This,  of  course,  involves 
the  conclusion  that  the  site  was  m  Tyburn 
manor.  Those  who  do  not  so  hold  conjecture 
that  the  name  which  here  distinguished  the 
road,  the  lane,  and  the  turnpike  was  brought 
thither  by  the  gallows  from  the  hamlet, 
whence  they  were  removed  as  London  grew. 
It  may  even  be  thought  that  "Tyburn** 
became  a  name  for  the  gallows,  as  "The 
EUms  "  had  formerly  been. 

It  was  on  6  April,  1196  (7  Richard  I.),  that 
William  Fitz  Osbert,  called  Longbeard,  the 
patriot-rebel  who  suffered  for  resistance  to 
onerous  taxation,  was  dragged  at  the  tails  of 
horses  from  the  Tower  to  Tyburn^  and  there 
hanged  on  a  gibbet.    Whetner  this  inhuman 

*  =LiB8on. 

t  The  predeceasoT  ol^wrj\tJboxi%C\»»3tOcu 


122 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      P^  s.  vil  Feb.  le.  i9oi. 


cruelty  was  prolonged  over  the  distance  of 
three  miles  to  Tyburn  village,  or  of  three 
and  a  half  miles  to  the  meeting  of  the  old 
roads,  could  scarcely  have  made  a  difference 
to  the  poor  victim,  who  must  have  been— 
or  so  let  us  hope — relieved  of  consciousness. 
How  is  the  barbarity  recorded]  The  con- 
temporary chronicler  Ralph  de  Diceto,  Dean 
of  St.  Paul's,  has  "equorum  ministerio  per 
mediam  civitatem  trahitur  ad  furcas  prope 
Tibumamy  Roger  of  Wendover,  another 
contemporary,  uses  the  same  words,  and 
therefore  may  be  thought  to  have  borrowed 
them,  though  in  doing  so  he  confirmed  the 
record.  He  merely  seeks  to  improve  the 
Latinitv  of  the  place-name,  which  very 
curiously  he  renders  Tilmrdriam.  From 
these  two  contemporary  chroniclers  is  de- 
rived the  fact  that  Longbeard  was  hanged  at 
Tyburn,  wherever  in  that  manor  may  have 
been  the  very  site  of  the  gallows.  Any  other 
evidence  is  less  important  than  theirs ;  and 
Tyburn  being  clearly  named  as  the  place  of 
execution,  it  is  difficult  to  understand  how 
any  historians,  e.j/..  Stow  and  Lambert,  if 
inaeed  these  chronicles  were  before  them, 
could  have  substituted  Smithfield  for  Tyburn. 
The  chroniclers  would  not  have  written 
Tyburn  if  they  meant  Smithfield. 

Gbrvasse  of  Canterbury,  another  contem- 
porary, has  simply  "  ad  ulmos  tractus,"  with- 
out any  positive  designation  of  the  place. 
And  as  "  The  Elms  so  long  indicated 
the  common  place  of  death  at  Smithfield, 
was,  indeed,  a  name  for  it,  it  is  probable  that 
the  words  of  Gervasse  have  been  misunder- 
stood. It  may  be  that  by  **  Elms  "  he  simply 
meant  gallows,  for  it  is  evident  that  the 
tree's  name  was  so  applied.  Also  it  can  be 
shown  that  elms  (which  abounded  in  the 
London  district)  grew  at  Tyburn,  for  a  later 
chronicler,  Adam  Murimuth,  recording  the 
execution  of  Mortimer  in  1330,  places  it  in  one 
MS.  *'apud  Elme8,"and  in  another  "acJ  ulmos 
de  Ty bourne  "  (ed.  Sir  Edw.  Maunde  Thomp- 
son, p.  62). 

William  of  Newburgh,  also  a  contemporary 
recorder  of  Longbearas  execution,  has  merely 
**patibulo  appensus  est";  and  similarly 
Roger  of  Hoveden,  "  trahitur  ad  patibulum.^' 
Matthew  Paris,  a  later  chronicler,  has   "ad 

tUmetv/ni  per  medium  Londoniee  trahitur 

et  suspensus  est  per  catenam  in  patibulo  " 

Now  let  us  see  how  the  historians  read  the 
chroniclers.    Holinshed  (1577)  has  :— 

"William  with  the  lonK  beard  (alias  Fitz  Osbert) 
was  from  thence  [the  Towerl  drawn  with  horees  to 
the  place  oi  execution  callea  the  Elnwi^  and  there 
banged  oa  a  gibbet, " 

Thus  the  Tudor  historian  does  not  name  the 


place  ;  neither  do  the  later  historians  Sp)eed, 
Hume,  Henry,  Turner,  Stubbs,  or  Freeman. 
Palgrave  (Introduction  to  '  Rotuli  Curiie 
Regis,'  1835)  has  :— 

"William  [Fitz  Osbert]  wa«  dragged  over  the 
rough  and  flinty  roads  to  Tyburn,  where  his  lace- 
rated and  almost  lifeless  carca^  was  hang  in  chains 
onthefa/xUdm" 

It  is  clear  that  this  writer  had  decided  that 
"the  fatal  elm"  or  gallows  was  at  Tyburn. 
Lineard  also  (1849) :  "  Fitz  Osbert  was  hastily 
tried,  condemned,  dragged  at  the  tail  of  a 
horse  to  the  elms  at  Tyburn,  and  hanged  in 
chains  with  nine  of  his  followers."  Our  latest 
authority,  the  'Dictionary  of  National  Bio- 
graphy' is,  so  it  appears  to  me,  scarcely  fair 

in  its  aeduction :  "William  Fitz  Osbert 

was  dragged  through  the  city  to  the  Elnis  (at 
Smithfield),  and  tnere  hanged  in  chains." 
The  parenthesis  is  the  dictionary's,  and  cannot 
be  said  to  be  warranted,  for,  as  we  have  seen, 
Gervasse,  the  contemporary,  although  he  has 
"  the  Elms,"  does  not  say  they  were  at  Smith- 
field,  nor  does  M.  Paris  (though  Mr.  Luard,  his 
editor,  has  thus  annotated)  nor  vet  Holinshed, 
who  uses  similar  terms.  The  dictionary 
ignores  the  contemporary  record  of  Ralph  de 
Diceto  and  Roger  of  Wendover  to  the  effect 
that  Fitz  Osbert  was  hanged  at  Tyburn; 
and  I  think  it  must  be  allowed  that,  view- 
ing their  record,  Palgrave  and  Lingard 
have  properly  concluded  that  the  place  was 
Tyburn,  although  it  is  difficult,  if  not  impos- 
sible at  present,  to  determine  the  very  site  of 
the  gallows.  W.  L.  Rutton. 

{To  be  continued,) 


JESSE  AND  SELWYN. 

In  1843  John  Heneage  Jesse  published 
*  George  Selwyn  and  his  Contemporaries.'  It 
contained  a  large  number  of  letters  addressed 
to  Selwyn,  and  very  few  (I  think  only  eight) 
from  Selwyn.  The  latter  are  such  as  might 
very  probably  have  been  written  in  draft  and 
then  copied  ;  one  is  endorsed  as  a  copy. 

As  the  publication  of  Selwyn's  letters  to 
the  Earl  of  Carlisle,  first  by  the  Historical 
MSS.  Commission,  and  since  by  Mr.  Roscoe, 
has  again  directed  attention  to  Selwyn,  it 
may  be  well  that  I  should  state  what  I  have 
heard  concerning  the  source  of  Jesse's  publi- 
cation. 

Early  in  the  last  century— probably  about 
1825  or  a  few  years  afterwards — some  papers, 
relating,  I  believe,  to  the  private  estate  of 
George  III.,  were  wanted,  and  as  it  was  sup- 
posea  that  they  might  be  at  the  office  of  the 
Commissioners  of  Oind  Revenues,  Works,  and 
BuWdva^^^  m^  ifiLtiher^  who  was  then  a  junior 


9-s.vilfkb.i6.i8oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


123 


clerk  in  that  office,  was  directed  to  make  a 
search  for  them.  In  the  course  of  that  search 
he  came  upon  two  locked  boxes  which  gave  no 
external  indication  of  their  contents,  and 
about  which  no  one  knew  anything.  They 
were  opened,  and  were  found  to  contain  papers 
relating  to  Selwyn,  who  had  been  Surveyor- 
General  of  Crown  Lands,  <fec.,  and  to  have 
inside  the  lids  directions  in  his  handwriting 
that  in  case  of  his  death  they  should  be 
delivered  to  his  executors.  They,  or  the 
survivor  or  representatives  of  them,  were 
duly  informed,  but  failed  to  take  away  the 
boxes,  which  remained  at  the  Office.  It  was 
from  these  papers,  as  my  father  told  me,  that 
the  letters  puolished  by  Jesse  were  derived. 
In  the  preface  he  says  : — 

**To  those  who  have  kindly  and  liberally  per- 
mitted the  editor  to  avail  himself  of  the  letters  in 
their  possession,  the  editor  t^kes  this  further  oppor- 
tunity of  expressing  his  sincere  thanks." 

But  my  father's  impression  was  that  the 
publication  was  unauthorized,  and  was 
resented  by  the  Carlisle  family.  Of  this, 
however,  I  have  no  proof. 

In  the  first  paragraph  of  his  preface  Jesse 
refers  to  Selwyn's  nabit  of  preserving.  "  not 
only  every  letter  addressed  to  him  during 
the  course  of  his  lon^  life,  but  also  the  most 
trifling  notes  and  unimportant  memoranda." 
The  contents  of  the  boxes  were  of  this  miscel- 
laneous character.  A  few  unimportant 
flocuments  were  taken  by  my  father,  and  are 
now  in  my  possession.  The  only  one  of  any 
interest  is  a  scrap  in  the  handwriting  of 
Horace  Walpole,  which  is  as  follows  : — 

pUESiR,— Do  send  rae  the  3^  vol.  of  Rousseau  ; 
{ake  fare,  for  a  few  leaves  of  this  2^  are  loose. 
{ *m  this  instant  goinj?  to  Strawberry-Hill ;  I  don't 
know  how  to  ask  you  to  go  and  dine  there,  but  if 
TOQ  should  like  it,  I  will  bring  you  back  as  soon 
a>  we  have  dined.  Yrs. ,  &c. . 

H.  Walpole. 

I  am  not  sure  whether  the  second  word  is 
'"^ir,  or  Sn,  or  St. 

Whether  Jesse  returned  the  MSS.  he  had 
niade  use  of  I  do  not  know.  From  what  is 
^aidinMr.  Roscoe's  letter  to  the  Athenceum 
It  would  seem  that  he  did  not. 

Some  of  the  Selwyn  papers  still  remain  at 
the  Office  of  Woods  ;  but  as  there  is  a  que^ition 
'fho  is  entitled  to  them,  the  public  are,  very 
properly,  not  allowe^i  to  examine  them, 
bly 


know,  nor  whether  J.  H.  Jesse  was  a  clerk  in 
the  Office  before  he  obtained  a  clerkship  in 
the  Admiralty.  J.  F.  Rotton. 


y  Jesse  published  all    that   were  of 
•oterest  and  fit  for  publication. 

Edward  Jesse,  J.  H.  Jesse's  father,  was  a 
<^wk  in  the  Office  of  Woods,  <fec.  He  was 
appointed  Deputy-Surveyor  of  Royal  Parks 
■nd  Palaces  before  1830.  Whether  he  then 
«»8e(J  to  be  a  clerk  in  the  Oecel  do  notj 


THE  FATHER  OF  EUSTACE  FITZ  JOHN. 

My  suggested  identification  of  the  father 
of  Eustace  fitz  John  in  *N.  <fe  Q.'  nineteen 
years  ago  (5^**  S.  xii.  83),  which  the  writer  of 
the  article  on  Eustace  in  the  'Dictionary  of 
National  Biography'  was  afraid  to  adopt, 
has  been  recently  confirmed  by  some  new 
particulars  to  be  found  in  Mr.  Round's  valu- 
able *  Calendar  of  Documents  in  France,' 
Rolls  Series,  published  last  year  (i.  253). 

The  received  pedigree  of  the  Burkes  is 
completely  overthrown ;  it  was  obviously 
fictitious,  and  can  now  be  replaced  by  one  on 
a  sure  foundation,  but  still  showing  a  hitherto 
unsuspected  connexion  between  Eustace  and 
William  fitz  Aldeline. 

It  is  the  mill  of  Viem  (Vains,  near  A  vranches), 
given  to  the  monks  of  Mont  St.  Michel  by 
Robert,  Count  of  the  Normans,  which  has 
revealed  these  facts,  or  rather  confirmed  my 
suggestions.  It  appears  that  at  the  time  of  the 
count's  death  in  1035,  when  he  was  returning 
from  Jerusalem,  Abbot  Suppo  (1033,  ob.  4  Nov., 
1061),  in  spite  of  the  opposition  of  the  monks, 
sold  this  mill  to  Ranulf  the  moneyer.  *'  But 
afterwards,  in  the  time  of  Aboot  Ranulf 
(lOGl-8),  the  mill  came  to  Gualaran,  son  of 
[the  above]  Ranulf— other  heirs  failing  "—as 
the  memorandum,  not  contemporary,  asserts, 
"and  was  bought  [back]  from  him  at  a  high 

f)rice.  Some  fifteen  years,  more  or  less,  later 
1076],  the  said  John  [fitz  Richard]  suddenly 
claimed  the  mill  and  seized  it  without  making 
any  proof  of  his  right,  the  Abbot  Ranulf 
vigorously  resisting."  The  matter  was  brought 
before  the  king  by  the  abbot,  who  obtained 
judgment  in  his  favour.  This  is  undoubtedly 
the  John  fitz  Richard  I  took  to  be  the  nephew 
of  Waleran  and  father  of  Eustace  fitz  John 
long  ago,  and  whom  I  think  so  still— the  John 
"monoculus"  of  the  printed  pedigrees,  so 
called  from  a  misreading  of  a  passage  in  the 
*Chron.  of  Roger  de  Hoveden,'  where  his  son 
Eustace  is  described  as  **luscus  et  proditor 
nequam,"  unleSvS,  indeed,  both  were  one-eyed. 
If  we  could  trust  the  memorandum  in  the 
'  Register  of  Mai  ton  Priory '  made  in  the  time 
of  John  de  Vesci  (1254-88),  John  had  a  brother 
named  Serlo— viz.,  Serlo  de  Burgh  or  de 
Perabrocke— but  what  we  know  about  him 
from  the  history  of  Fountains  Abbey  would 
place  him  a  generation  later.  I  cannot 
explain  the  reason  why  John  fitz  Richard 
should  have  given  tV\e  t\l\\es^  ol  ^sltlVyw^^^xcl.^ 
in  Norfolk,  to  the  diat^nt  akibe^  o\  QX^vj^c^V^Xy 


124 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES-      [9^  s.  vn.  f.b.  le.  iqol 


unless  he  were  related  or  indebted  to  the  Abbot 
Serlo,  who  until  1072  had  been  a  monk  at 
Mont  St.  Michel.  If  not  a  brother  of  John, 
Serlo  must  have  been  some  relative,  for  a  few 
days  after  the  death  of  Eustace  in  Wales, 
Henry  II.  confirmed  all  the  lands  of  Serlo  to 
Eustace's  son  and  heir,  William  "  de  Vesci." 

It  may  possibly  be  new  to  some  readers  of 
'N.  ifeC^.'  that  William  fitz  Aldeline  was  a 
Yorkshireman,  and  not  in  any  way  connected 
with  William  de  Burgh,  with  whom  he  had 
long  been  identified  by  the  heralds.  Who  he 
reaXiy  was  I  found  many  years  ago  from  Uarl. 
MS.  800;  and  the  late  Mr.  Holmes,  editing 
this  MS.  for  the  Yorks.  ArchcBologiccU  JaumaY, 
xii.  139,  did  the  same  in  1894.  The 
anonymous  author  of  '  The  Norman  People ' 


has  identified  Aldeline,  William's  father,  with 
a  contemporary  namesake  at  Aldfield,  near 
Ripon,  but  it  has  yet  to  be  proved,  and  he 
knew  nothing  about  his  being  lord  of  the 
manor  of  Thorpe  Audliii,  near  Pontef ract,  so 
called  after  him  to  this  day. 

It  may  be  worth  while  mentioning  here 
that  Aldel;7i  is  a  very  old  misreading  of  the 
letters  in  for  an  m,  a  thing  easily  done  in 
mediaeval  MSS. 

I  append  a  pedigree  necessary  to  make  aU 
this  more  clear.  It  is  only  Serlo  de  Bureh  and 
Agnes  de  Valoines  who  do  not  stana  very 
satisfactorily  the  test  of  probable  dates. 
Agnes  must  have  been  much  more  than  sixty 
in  1185  C'plusquam"  in  the  record),  and  her 
niece  Agnes  was  then  sixty. 


Ranulf  the  moneyer  (of  Caen)  boaght  the  mill  of  Viem,  1035^.. 


Waleran  fitz  Ranulf  of  Caen,  1066,  cam» 
over  with  the  Conqueror,  had  lands  in 
Essex,  &o..  the  tithes  of  which  he  gave 
to  the  Abbey  of  St.  Stephen  at  Caen ; 
had  the  mill  of  Viem ;  dead  1086. 


Richard,  father  ofep 
John,  so  brother  or 
brother-in-law    of 
Waleran :  qy.  dead 
1086. 


John  fitz  Wale-=T=. 
ran     had      the 
baronv  in  Essex, 
&c.,1066;  living 
1091  ^ 


,\ 


Conan  had 
the  mill  of 
Amblie  near 
Caen,  1066; 
had  a  dau. 


John,  ''  nepos  Walerami,"  1086,  held« 
among  other  manors  Saxlingham  in 
Norfolk,  the  tithes  of  which  John  "fitz 
Richard''  gave  to  Gloucester  Abbev 
before  1104 ;  seized  the  mill  of  Viem,1076. 


Qy.  Serlo 
de  Burgh 

orde 
Pembrocke. 


Robert  Juliana  (qy.=William  de        Pain=T=Sybil   Beatrix,' 


Doisnell 


Juliana,! 

dau. 
and  h., 

1166. 


dau.of  John) 
had  the 
fief  of 
Waleran 
her  grand- 
father, 
1190. 


Hskstings, 
1190. 


fitz 
John; 
dead 
1137. 


^William  fitz  Alde-=pEu8tacia  de 


dau.  and 
h.  of 
Ivo  de 
Vesci. 


line,  of  Thorpe 
Aualin,  co.  Yors. 
The  king's  dapif  er, 
and  in  1176  his 
deputy  in  Ireland. 


Ralf .  qy. 
d.  $,p. 


Courtenay 
(qy.  dau.  of 
Reginald) 
m.  2  Lucas 
fitz  John. 

71. 


Cecily, 

m. 
Roger. 
Earl  of 
Here- 
ford. 


Agnes, 
widow  of 
Hubert  de 

Mont- 

chenesy ; 

St.  60, 1185. 


=Eustace  fitz^ 

pAgnes. 
dau. 

William 

John  gave 

fitz 

rent  in 

of 

John. 

Saxlineham 
to  Glou. 

Wm. 

fitz 

d.  Jufy, 

Nigel. 

HOT. 

A^ee, 
widow 

of  Roger 
de  Va- 
loines; 

aeUfiUand 
more, 
118S. 


William  "de« 

Vesci," 
son  and  heir ; 

d.  1185. 


Richard) 

fitz 
Eustace, 

Con- 
stable of 
Chester. 


John  "  de  Cour-»Emma 
tenay"  of  Hurst- 
Courtenay,      co. 
York,  d.  s.p. 


Eustace  de  Vesci  in< 
exchange  gave  his 
lands  in  Saxlingham 
to  Adam  de  Carlisle. 


Westminster. 


Matilda,  m. 
Adam  de  Carlisle. 


A.  S.  Ellis. 


"  Bandy-legged  "= "  B^nock-kneed."  —  The 

old    maxim,    "  Don't    be    too    sure    about 

anything,"  applies   here.     Ninety -nine  men 

out  of  every  hundred  would   say  at  once 

that    "  bandy  -  legged  "  =  "  bow  -legged  "  — 


I.e.,  with  the  concavity  inwards— but  the 
'E.D.D.'  does  not  admit  this  fact.  Ite 
assertion  is  in  accordance  with  the  heading 
given.  From  the  point  of  view  of  the  afore- 
said ninety -nine,  the  '  H.E.D.'  makes  matters 


9i*  &  viL  F«.  16. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


125 


worse,  for  it  asserts,  in  parenthesis,  that 
Huloet  identified  "bow-legged"  with  "knock- 
kneed."  The  resulting  situation  is  so  distress 
ing  to  one's  ideas  as  to  be  almost  pathetic, 
and  there  does  not  seem  to  be  any  definite 
conclusion  to  the  question  as  to  how  one 
stands  in  this  case.  Such  etymology  as  there 
is  for  "  bandy  "  is  on  the  side  of  ^*  knock  " ; 
and  if  the  question  of  the  term  as  applied  to 
a  dog's  legs  be  taken  up,  there  is  no  decisive- 
ness in  this  respect,  because  dogs  have  two 
pairs  of  legs,  the  fore  legs  bowed  and  the 
nind  legs  knocking,  as  regards  the  hocks. 
While  one  cannot  be  too  grateful  for  full  and 
exact  information,  it  is  sad  to  see  one's 
lifelong  ideas  sharing  the  fate  of  Troy  and 
** the  Maypole  in  the  Strand ."  One  has  dou  bts 
of  the  Qow  Chrom.  "Time  will  doubt  of 
Rome."  Aethur  Mayall. 

"Billycock"  Hat.— It  is  odd  to  find  the 
Edinburgh  Review,  in  its  first  number  of  the 
century,  giving  the  stamp  of  its  authority 
to  the  following  etymological  crotchet 
(pp.  103-4)  :— 

"Later,  Mr.  Thomas  William  Coke,  famous  in 
Norfolk,  and  afterwards  Lord  Leicester,  brought 

his  hounds  into  the  county  [Essex] Mr.  Coke 

himself,  besides  being  a  fox-hunter,  is  now 
remembered  by  many  as  a  friend  of  agriculture ;  it 
is,  however,  forgotten  by  most  persons  that  he  was 
the  inventor  of  the  *  Billy  Coke*  hat." 

"Forgotten  "  !  How  many  persons  ever 
bew  it  1  We  have,  indeed,  evidence,  on  the 
canvas  of  Gainsborough,  that  Coke  wore  a 
broad  •  brimmed  hat;  but  broad  -  brimmers 
were  invented  long  before  Coke  was  born 
(1752),  and  at  the  commencement  of  the  reign 
of^  George  III.  (1760)  cocked  hats  were  worn 
with  an  average  breadth  of  brim  of  6 '/s  inches 
(see  Planch^'s  'British  Costume,'  1847  ed., 
p.  400).  In  default  of  a  view  of  Gainsborough's 
pftintiDg,  I  cannot  know  what  was  the  exact 
ihape  or  set  of  Coke's  hat.  It  is  hard,  how- 
ever, to  believe  that  he  was  its  "  inventor  "  or 
designer ;  and  the  assertion  in  Brewer's 
^Phrase  and  Fable'  that  the  "Coke  hat"  is 
still  known  among  hatters  does  not  prove 
that  hats  of  the  pattern  worn  by  Coke  were 
n*nied  after  him  by  his  contemporaries,  far 
^  that  there  was  ever  such  a  designation  as 
J  **  Billy  Coke  "  hat.  The  notion  is  incredible, 
'or  when  anybody  possesses  two  Christian 
wmes  the  first  in  order  is  that  by  which 
hei«  called,  except  in  very  rare  instances, 
inomas  William  Coke  would  therefore  have 
been,  among  his  familiars.  Tommy  Coke, 
w  to  break  through  rule  is  an  easy  feat  for 
the  etvmology-guesser ;  and  in  the  present 
<>Me  the  next  step,  the  assumption  of  a 
carruption  of  "Bmy  Coke"  to  ^bm^rcock, 


is  equally  easy.  Dr.  Murray  either  ignores 
or  passes  over  all  this,  merely  hazarding  a 
suggestion  that  **  billycock  "  is  a  corruption  of 
**  bully-cocked,"  a  term  certainly  applied  to 
cocked  broad  -  brimmers  in  1721.  Unfortu- 
nately, he  is  unable  to  adduce  any  example  of 
**  billycock"  antecedent  in  date  to  1862.  Such 
a  corruption  is,  at  any  rate,  more  feasible  than 
that  affirmed  by  the  late  t)r.  Brewer,  and 
there  is  a  possibility  of  earlier  instances  of 
**  billycock^'  coming  to  notice ;  but  we  may 
be  quite  sure  that  "Billy  Coke"  never  had 
existence  save  in  the  etymologaster's  crooked 
conceit — the  same  conceit  that  fabricated 
huffetier^  to  cite  a  notorious  instance  of  word 
derivation.  F.  Adams. 

**Bettee  to  have  loved  and  lost." — 
What  Dr.  Currie  considered  "the  last-finished 
ofi&pring  of  Burns's  muse"  was  his  tender  and 
haunting  address  to  Jessie  Le wars  — the 
steadfast  friend  of  his  declining  days— under 
the  title  "A  health  to  ano  I  loe  dear."  The 
following  stanza  of  that  lyric  is  expressed 
with  the  poet's  customary  felicity  of  diction 
and  decisive  intensity  of  feeling  :— 
Altho'  thoa  maun  never  be  mine, 

Altho'  even  hope  is  denied  ; 
Tie  sweeter  for  thee  despairing; 
Than  onght  in  the  world  beside. 

There  is  no  intention  of  saying  here  that  the 
author  of  *  In  Memoriam '  drew  upon  Burns 
for  the  sentiment  of  one  of  his  most  popular 
stanzas  :  nor  shall  surorise  be  expressed  even 
at  an  aamission  of  inaoility  to  grasp  kinship 
of  idea  in  the  two  passages.  But  there  need 
be  no  hesitation  in  asserting  that  the 
luxurious  tension  of  hopeless  love  is  not 
better  depicted  anywhere  than  in  these 
thrilling  lines  of  Burns.      Thomas  Bayne. 

"  Manurance."— In  my  copy  of  the  *  Tithe 
Award  for  Sedgeford '  this  word  twice  occurs 
in  the  sense  of  tenure  or  occupation.  John- 
son (1755)  says  of  it,  "an  obsolete  word, 
worthy  of  revival."  Probably  it  never  was 
quite  obsolete,  as  its  use  in  1842  serves  to 
show ;  but  none  of  the  more  modem  diction- 
aries gives  it,  and  the  editors  of  the  *  H.E.D.' 
may  be  glad  to  know  of  this  instance  of  its 
survival.  Holcombi  Inoleby. 

FORECOUET,       &C.,      ASHBURNHAM       HOUSI, 

Westminster.— The  mention  of  the  fore- 
court to  Clopton  Hall  in  my  reply  to  the 
query  re  *  Columbaria'  {anU^  p.  116)  calls  to 
my  mind  the  paved  forecourt  at  Ashburn- 
ham  House,  Westminster,  and  naturally  also 
brings  back  recollections  of  the  house  as  it 
appeared  in  1881,  before  alt/ftxaA.\o\i^  ^\vwv  \ 
I  made  measured  dravriii^^  lot  ^Xm^l^.  \>a».N^ 


126 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9^  s.  vii.  Feb.  i6,  1901. 


always  regretted  the  removal  of  an  old 
entrance  gateway  with  a  porter\s  room, 
through  which  one  passed  into  the  forecourt 
paved  in  geometric  pattern  with  two  kinds 
of  stone  of  differing  tint.  When  the  entrance 
door  and  the  garden  door  at  the  back  stood 
open  in  summer  time,  it  was  pleasant  to 
catch  a  glimpse  suggesting  the  terraced 
garden  beyona  the  partly  paved  court  at 
the  back.  There  was  an  interesting  classic 
summer  -  house  built  against  the  garden 
boundary  (the  wall  of  the  south  cloister 
walk),  directly  opposite  the  doorwavs  of  the 
house— an  ideal  place  to  sit  in— and  I  regret 
that  this  feature  was  also  removed. 

The  external  accessories  of  this  house, 
linking  it  so  well  with  the  past,  seemed  to 
me  to  give  it  an  additional  interest,  but  I 
suppose  the  paved  forecourt  must  remain  as 
it  was.  H.  SiHR. 

Human  Remains  pound  on  Rood-loft 
Stairs  at  Machen,  Monmouthshire.  —  I 
quote  from  the  Echo  of  16  October,  1900  :— 

"  During  the  renovation  of  the  ancient  church  at 
Machen,  near  Newport,  some  plaster  was  removed 
from  the  west  side  of  the  building  and  two  built- 
up  doorways  were  disclosed.  On  pulling  down  the 
masonry,  stairways  leading  to  the  rood-loft  were 
discovered,  and  within  the  space  two  human  skele- 
tons were  found.  The  churcn  records  do  not  throw 
any  light  on  the  matter,  except  that  for  over  200 
years  nothing  seems  to  have  been  known  of  the 
existence  of  the  stairways.'* 
Some  further  corroboration  of  this  rather 
strange  discovery  would  be  useful. 

W.  B.  Gerish. 

Bishop's  Stortford. 

Memorial  to  John  Ruskin.— A  memorial 
to  John  Ruskin  has  been  placed  in  the  church 
of  St.  Paul,  Heme  Hill.  It  consists  of  a  tablet 
of  coloured  marble,  with  inscription,  sur- 
mounted by  a  medallion  portrait  in  white 
marble  by  Mr.  Brindley.  The  inscription  is 
as  follows  : — 

"John  Ruskin,  M.A.,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.,  born  in 
Bloomsbury,  Feb.  8,  1819.  Brought  to  28,  Herne 
Hill  by  his  parents  in  1823.  He  dwelt  in  Herne 
and  Denmark  Hill  for  fifty  years.  His  Iat«r  days 
were  chiefly  lived  upon  the  shore  of  Coniston  Lake, 
yet  under  the  roof  where  he  grew  up  he  had  a  home 
m  this  parish  to  the  end,  the  house  having  passed 
into  the  possession  of  his  cousin  and  aaopted 
daughter  Joan  and  her  husband  Arthur  Severn. 
Died  at  Brantwood,  Jan.  20, 1900.  Buried  at  Conis- 
ton, Jan.  26,  190().  *  The  words  of  the  wise  are  as 
goads,  and  as  nails  well  fastened  are  the  words  of 
masters  of  assemblies.' " 

N.  S.  S. 


Handbl:    a  Relic  — a  precious  relic  of 

Handel  was  shown    by  Mr.  Shedlock    last 

Saturday  at  the  meeting  of  the  Incorporated 


Society  of  Musicians.  The  relic  is  a  book 
of  harpsichord  pieces,  written  by  Handel's 
friend  Johann  Krieger,  organist  at  Zittau 
for  more  than  half  a  century,  and  published 
at  Nuremberg  in  1699.  The  copy  was  pre- 
sented to  Handel  by  the  composer.  It  is  one 
of  the  earliest  examples  of  music  printing 
extant,  and  was  evidently  greatly  cherished 
by  Handel.  Mr.  Shedlock  traced  its  history, 
showitig  how  it  was  given  bv  the  great  com- 
poser as  a  rare  gift  to  his  friend  Bernhard 
Granville,  brother  of  Mrs.  Delany,  from 
whom  it  descended  to  Major  Bevil  Granville, 
who  himself  lent  it  to  Mr.  Shedlock.  On 
the  title-page  it  is  described  as  "  Anmuthige 
Chavili  Terburg";  and  at  the  end  of  the 
preface,  which  is  in  the  old  German  character, 
are  the  words  **  Zittau,  20th  December,  1699. 
Christ  year  running  to  an  end."      N.  S.  S. 

Book  of  Common  Prayer.— Now  that  a 
reprint  of  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer  has 
again  become  necessary,  it  would  be  inter- 
esting to  know  why  Messrs.  Eyre  &  Spottis- 
woode  have  in  very  recent  years  altered  the 
punctuation  of  the  Lord's  Prayer.  In  all 
older  issues  the  King's  Printers  and  the 
Oxford  and  Cambridge  Presses  alike  printed : 
"Thy  will  be  done  in  earth.  As  it  is  in 
heaven."  For  some  reason  or  other  the  first 
named  now  print:  "Thy  will  be  done,  in 
earth  as  it  is  in  heaven."  The  initial  capital, 
which  in  the  Prayer  Book  marks  a  pause 
and  a  fresh  lead  by  the  minister,  is  aban- 
doned in  the  word  "as,"  while  the  point 
is  placed  after  "done,"  instead  of  after 
"earth."  The  result,  when  the  minister 
is  reading  or  singing  from  a  five -year -old 
service  book,  while  the  choir  and  con- 
gregation are  provided  with  new  books, 
resembles  the  confusion  which  is  caused 
when  the  clergy  ignore  (as  nine-tenths  of 
them  do)  the  same  pauses  marked  by  capitals 
in  the  confession  in  the  Communion  Service. 
In  the  latter  the  capita-l  initials  do  not  all 
follow  points,  and  it  is  hard  to  say  for  what 
those  who  ignore  them  think  they  are  there. 

A.  T.  M. 

Heads  or  Tails.— A  legal  correspondent 
of  the  Siandfird  (28  Jan.),  discoursing  of  the 
privileges  of  our  queens  consort,  says  : — 

"It  is  necessary  to  mention  one  other  carious 
class  of  property  which  is  vested  in  the  Queen 
Consort.  The  sturgeon  and  the  whale  are  known 
as  Royal  fisli,  and  when  they  are  cast  upon  the 
coast  of  England  they  are  both  usually  said  to 
belong  to  the  Crown.  This  is  not  strictly  true. 
The  sturgeon  belonj^  to  the  King,  but  in  the  case 
of  the  whale  the  fish  is  divided  between  the  King^ 
and  his  Consort.  The  King  takes  the  head  and  the 
(^uoexv  t\x«  Uil.    The  old  writers  justify  this  divinon 


«*  &  viL  p««.  16. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


127 


on  the  ground  that  the  Queen  needs  the  whale -^    reference  to  this  matter.    Acoording  to  Heath, 
tail  to  furnish  her  wardrobe  with  whalebone  ! "  j^^  ^as  father  of  the  dramatic  writer  contem- 

The  old  writers  should  have  known  thar  I  porary  with  Shakespeare.  His  will  was 
baleen  (to  adopt  the  spelling  of  Ogilvie  s  |  proved  in  1585  (P.C.C.  Brudenell,  29),  the 
'Comprehensive  English  Dictionary')  comes  sentence  as  to  same  being  entered  at  fol.  26 
from  the  head  and  not  from  the  tail  of  the  \  of  same  register.  W.  I.  R.  V. 

The  Mint  Price  of  GoLD.—The  present 
Mint  price  of  gold,  as  we  all  know,  is 
3/.  17«.  10 Jd  per  ounce.  It  has  stood  at  that 
figure  since  the  last  reduction  of  the  guinea, 
that  to  2l8.  in  1717.  By  a  table  published  in 
Harris's  'Essay  on  Coins'  (part  ii.  p.  2).  it 
appears  that  tne  weight  of  20«.  in  tale — that 
is  to  say,  of  the  pound  sterling  in  silver,  as 
fixed  by  43  Elizabeth  — was  3oz.  17dwt.  10  gr. 
As  the  provisions  of  43  Elizabeth  were  in 
force  in  1717.  when  the  transition  to  the 
gold  standara  in  England  may  be  said  to 
have  been  definitely  effected,  one's  first  im- 
pression, on  glancing  at  these  figures,  would 
naturally  be  that  there  is  an  organic  con- 
nexion between  them,  or  perhaps  that  they 
are  different  expressions  of  the  same  fact. 
Their  similarity,  however,  appears  to  be  due 
to  the  purest  coincidence.  The  pound 
sterling  in  tale,  which  was  at  the  Conquest 
11  oz.  5dwt.  troy— it  was  the  Tower  pound — 
was  brought  down,  by  successive  reductions, 
by  the  end  of  Elizabeth's  reign,  to  the  above- 
named  figure,  3  oz.  17  d wt.  10  gr.,  and  remained 
at  that  figure  till  the  date  of  the  adoption 
of  the  present  monetary  ratio  between  gold 
and  silver,  which  fixed  the  silver  price  of  the 
ounce  of  gold  at  3/.  178.  lO^d. 

William  Warrand  Caslile.  * 
Haillie,  Largs,  Ayrshire. 


whale,  which,  pace  the  legal  correspondent,  i?s 
not  a  fish  at  all.  St.  Swithin. 

Sib  T.  Lodge  and  Sir  J.  White.  Lord 
Mayors  of  London.— It  appears  from  a 
carioas  and  interesting  contemporary  entry, 
doubtless  in  the  autograph  of  John  Stow, 
the  antiauary,  which  I  recently  chanced  U^ 
meet  with  at  fol.  46  b  of  a  MS.  of  a  miscel- 
laneous character,  chiefly  by  earlier  hands, 
contained  in  the  Archiepiscopal  Library  at 
Lambeth,  and  numbered  306,  that  the  first 
Lord  Mayor  of  London  who  wore  a  beard 
was  Sir  Thomas  Lodge,  and  also  that  his 
immediate  successor  in  the  mayoralty',  Sir- 
John  White,  not  only  did  the  like,  but  was 
the  first  to  discard  the  ancient  four-cornered 
'*  bonnet."  as  worn  by  all  his  predecessors 
therein,  in  favour  of  a  round  cap,  weighing 
less  than  four  ounces.  Thinking  it  will 
interest  your  readers,  I  give  a  transcript  as 
follows  : — 

"1563 
syr  Thomas  lodge  beynge  mayr  of  london  ware  a 
beard,  k  was  y"  fyrst  that  (beynge  mayr  of  london) 
cvar  ware  any  y»  whiche  was  thowght  to  niayny 
l»eople  very  stray nge  to  leve  y«  cumly  aunsyent  cus- 
tom of  shavyn^  theyr  beards,  nevartheles  he  wart 
p  comlv  auncient  bonet  w*  iiij  coruars  as  all  othar 
hw  predysesowrs  had  done  before  hym,  this  S  T. 
wjoge  brakse  [=brack8=brags]  and  prof  esse  to  be 
banqwe  rieoute  [=banknipt,  Fr.  banqueroute  = 
oynkraptcy]  in  his  inaioralitie  to  the  grete  slandar 
oJy«  citie  but  y«  next  vere  afftar  ser  John  whit 
»*ynge  mayre  ware  botne  a  longe  beard  &  all  so  a 
^vnd  cape  fw=cap]  y»  wayed  not  iiii  ounces 
Whiche  senjyd  to  all  men  (in  consyderacion  of  y* 
•undent  bonyt)  to  be  very  vnconily/ " 

.The  words  from  "this  S  T.  lodge"  to  "y« 
^tie"  (inclusive)  appear  to  have  been  sub- 
J^aently  added  by  Stow,  and  probably  taken 
from  another  entry  by  him  at  fol.  70  a  of  the 
W'ne  MS.,  under  the  like  date,  in  which  it  is 
s^tefl  {inUr  alia)  that  "  ser  Thomas  lodge  (to 
)'*  great  slaunda*  of  y«  wholl  city)  in  y"  ende 
w  his  maioralitie  proffessyd  to  be  banqe- 
rowpte.'' 

This  Sir  Thomas  Lodge,  it  may  be  added, 
nad  during  his  mayoralty  a  somewhat  serious 


We  must  request  correspondents  desiring  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  maybe  addressed  to  them 
direct.  

"Le  trecente  cariche."— In  a  letter  of 
1651,  from  a  schoolboy  to  his  brother  at 
Oxford,  I  find 

'*  they  have  bin  more  fruitfull  unto  me,  then  that 
tield  m  Sicilv,  called  le  trecente  cariche,  the  field 
uf  three  hundred  Loads,  so  called  because  it  returns 
the  Sower,  three  hundred  for  one  year." 

I  presume  this  field   is  a  commonplace  de- 


Quan^ri  u^^^.h  O  ":*^  -^ived  from  some  book  of  extracts  or  reading- 

SfTiJ^^Sl  V   ^^r   >•'  '*^'P^^^i",«  ^^5    book  of  the  time.    Can  any  of  your  reader 
Kra,'rh?te  guide  me  to  the  source  of  it3, 

gown.     The  above  statement  as  to  Lodge  |     Serjeant   BETTfia\^oiaLTH.— ^^^  \  «j^  \\ 
P'ofeasiiig  to  be  baolrriip^  do  doubt  beara  I  some  one  of  your  maii^  toey&Qt^  oiwi  ^N^>(5ftft 


J.  R.  Maorath. 


128 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       (9«^  b.  vn.  fkb.  le.  i90i. 


Christian  name  of  Sorieant  Bettes worth,  the 
"booby  Bettesworth  commemorated  by 
Swift,  whose  biographers  have  much  to  say 
of  him,  but  do  not  sufficiently  identify  him  i 
Edward  B.  Tylob. 
Oxford. 

*The  Thirteen  Club.'— I  shall  feel  obliged 
if  you  can  tell  me  how  I  can  obtain  tnis 
recitation.  H.  B.  Stunt. 

12,  Akerman  Road,  Brixton,  S.  W. 

**PUT    A  SPOKE    IN    THE  WHEEL."— What  is 

the  original  meaning  of  the  expression,  "I 
will  put  a  spoke  in  his  wheel "?  Did  it  first 
mean  to  help  or  to  iniure  a  man  1  I  think 
now  it  is  popularly  used  in  the  latter  sense. 

Harold  Lewis. 
Bristol. 

["Both  which  bills  were  such  spokes  in  their 
chariot  wheels  that  made  them  drive  much 
heavier."  See  !•»  8.  x.  5i.  See  also  l-^  S.  viiL  209, 
351,  676 ;  ix.  601.  The  phrase  certainly  implies  the 
idea  of  an  obstruction.] 

Stanbury  of  Devon  and  Cornwall.— 
Any  notes  respecting  this  ancient  family  will 
oblige.  Some  years  ago  an  elaborate  pedigree 
was  compiled  for  a  member  of  the  family, 
but  all  trace  of  it  is  lost.  Perhaps  some  one 
may  know  whether  it  still  exists.  R. 

"  Bull  and  Last."— Can  any  one  curious 
in  signs  explain  the  meaning  of  this  sign  at 
a  public-house  in  the  Highgate  Road  ?  It  is 
not  named  in  the  'History  of  Signboards,' 
by  John  Camden  Hotton,  1866,  nor  in  the 
'Tavern  Signs*  in  the  various  volumes  of 
•  N.  <k  Q.'  EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

MoHUN  OP  WoLLASTON.— Pedigree  wanted. 

(Mrs.)  J.  H.  Cope. 
Sulhamstead,  Berks. 

Hamilton. — I  want  information  on  the 
subject  of  William  Hamilton,  of  Liscrooney, 
King's  County^  whose  daughters  Elizabeth 
and  Jane  (coheiresses)  married  respectively  a 
father  and  son,  i.e.,  Sir  Thomas  Crosbie  and 
David  Crosbie,  successive  owners  of  Ardfert 
Abbey.  David  died  in  1717.  I  am  anxious 
to  know  to  which  particular  branch  of  the 
Hamilton  family  William  Hamilton  belonged, 
and  should  be  glad  also  to  learn  the  name  of 
his  wife  and  those  of  her  parents. 

Kathleen  Ward. 

Castle  Ward,  Downpatrick. 

High    and    Low:     Conservative    and 

Liberal.— I  was  recently  conversing   with 

AD    octogenarian    labourer    concerning    the 

ejection,  and  I  noticed  that  he  never  once 

used  either  of  the  words  which  in  the  present 


day  designate  the  two  great  political  parties. 
The  only  terms  he  knew  them  by  were  "  The 
High  Party  "  =  Conservatives,  and  "The  Low 
Party  "= Liberals.  Were  these  titles  at  all 
general  at  the  beginning  of  last  century  ? 

John  T.  Page. 
West  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 

Forth  Family  and  Arms.— In  the  Office 
of  Arms  in  Dublin  Castle  the  arms  and  crest 
described  below  are  on  record  to  "  Cap*  Sam* 
Forth  of  CoP  Wolesley  Reg*  of  Horse."  Arms, 
Ermine,  a  harp  or  Between  three  martlets, 
two  and  one,  gules.  Crest,  On  a  wreath  or 
and  gules,  a  naked  dexter  arm  embowed, 
encircled  by  a  coronet  or,  the  hand  grasping 
a  broken  sword,  hilted  of  the  same.  The 
date  of  the  arms  is,  I  am  officially  informed, 
temp.  William  IIL  One  of  my  great-grand- 
fathers was  John  Forth,  Lieutenant  R.N., 
who  died  in  1790,  aged  seventy.  He  used,  on 
an  armorial  seal,  arms  and  crest  the  same  as 
those  above  described  (except  that  the  harp 
is  crowned  and  the  crest  issues  out  of  a 
mural  crown  instead  of  a  wreath) ;  the  arms 
impaling  the  following  :  Arms,  A  sal  tire  gules 
(or  argent?):  on  a  chief  azure  three  crescents 
fesseways.  Motto  (on  scroll  below  the  shield^ 
"  Le  fort  se  soumottra  jamais."  The  family 
legend  recounted  to  me  years  ago  was  that 
the  Forth  arms  were  granted  to  a  Samuel 
Forth  for  service  to  his  king  in  battle, 
whence  the  charge  of  the  royal  harp  of 
Ireland  ;  also  that  for  the  same  service  the 
king  made  him  a  knight  banneret  on  the 
battlefield,  whence,  perhaps,  the  coronet  on 
the  crest.  Is  anytnmg  known  of  this  Capt 
Samuel  Forth,  of  Col.  Wolesley's  Regiment 
of  Horse,  in  connexion  with  any  battle 
fought  by  William  III.,  either  in  Ireland 
or  in  the  Low  Countries?  Also,  To  what 
family  appertained  the  arms  impaled  with 
those  of  Forth  on  my  great-grandfather's 
seal  described  above  ? 

John  H.  Jossblyn. 

Ipswich. 

Mackintosh. — I  want  the  names  of  the 
wife  and  all  the  children  of  Alexander 
Mackintosh  (third  son  of  Laughlan  Mackin- 
tosh, of  Deviot,  and  Anne,  daughter  of  CJolin 
Mackenzie,  of  Redcastle,  married  in  1687X 
Can  any  correspondent  of  *  N.  <fe  O.'  kindly 
assist  me  ?  Wm.  Jackson  Rgott. 

Dundrum,  co.  Down. 

Journalistic  Errors.— Why  do  our  jour- 
nalists so  often  make  blunders  when  dealing 
with  matters  literary  ?    Thus  the  late  (3eorge 
Augustus  Sala.  in  his  interesting  article  pub- 
\  Wauod  Va  t.\i^  DqaIm  Telegraph  of  24  January, 


«*avn.Fn.i6.i»oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


129 


speftkn  of  'For  the  Term  of  his  Natural  Life/ 
br  Marcus  Ward  (nc),  a  inhtake  also  made  in 
tfi©  last  summer  number  of  the  Argoij/.  A 
week  or  two  ago  id  the  €helt€nham  Examiner 
the  writer  of  the  *  Lady's  Ijotidon  Letter' 
upoke  of  "Oabrielle  d'Aonunzio'*  as  if  that 
famous  decadent  were  a  woman.  A  writer 
even  more  recently  in  the  Free  Lam^e  ascribes 
Wanhiu^ton  Irving's  phrase  **the  almighty 
dollar  *"  to  Lincoln.    And  so  on, 

CarngASTER- 

[They  have  not  tinne— often,  too,  not  the  equip- 

niKJt — to  bo  aocurate.] 

Byfield  Family,— Richard  Byfield,  vicar  of 
Stratford-on-Avon,  left  two  sons— Nicholas, 
bomi  1579,  died  1622  (father  of  the  well-known 
Adoniram  ByfieldX  and  Richard,  born  1538, 
died  1664,  Can  any  of  your  readers  tell  me 
how  Nathaniel  Byfield,  born  1607,  died  1664, 
was  related  to  the  vicar  of  Stratford  ?  Was 
he  his  son  I  J,  H,  W. 

DAVUflTOET-HuLME,— I  should  be  glad  to 
know  whether  James  Davenport  -  Hulme, 
H,D  (1772  lfl40X  of  Manchefjter,  has  anv 
Qeseendanta  now  Uvlng.  He  had  five  chil- 
dren,  who  all  died  unmarried  except  John 
Khodes  Davenport-Hulme,  M,D,  (bora  1803; 
died  1871,  at  Durban,  Natal),  who  married. 
1833^  Maria,  daughter  of  James  Walkden,  of 
Minifield,  Notts,  solicitor,  and  who  in  1834 
w  appointed  a  special  magistrate  to 
Jamaica,  where  his  three  children,  John 
^odei,  James  Walk  den «  and  Elizabeth 
-^oe,  were  born,  I  also  wish  to  know 
whether  James  paveoport-Hulme^H  siijtera, 
Aqil6  Bulme,  wife  of  Thomas  Brookes,  of 
M&tLohester,  and  Hannah  Hulme,  wifo  of 
•oieph  Deville,  have  left  descendants.  These 
pvttcalars  are  from  Sleigh's  '  History  of  the 
AttFient  F^nsh  of  Leek/ 

Albyn  Ltell  HBAnB, 
^W  Corner,  Blundellsande. 

''So  LO!fo,"^What  is  the  derivation  of  this 
^presalon,  much  used  now  as  a  salutation  t 

H.  G,  H. 

!^  6*  8,  it  67,  I9i,  496;  iii,  18,  for  vanoua 
«V*o*tioiiaJ 

Wafrom. — In  an  apprenticeship  indenture 
jaUd  less  one  of  the  parties  is  described  as 

^  Waurom  ia  the  county  of  Hertford,  yeo- 
oiin.*  Bein^  unable  to  trace  such  a  place  in 
J^y  gazetteer,  history,  or  directory,  I  should 
■^irateful  for  an  explanation,  M.  F. 

^  FifAB's  Crag,  Dbewentwater.— This  crag 
ttp&pularly  called  Square  Coppy  End.  Can 
^7  %ht  be  thrown  on  the  dedvation  and 
"Oetuing  of  **  Copp/- "  ?   /#  it  &t  &II  connected  I 


with  kopje  1    It  may  be  mentioned  that  in 

the  local  dialect  a  footstool  is  a  **  coppy- 
stiihl,"  COCKBHOT. 

Duration  of  Life  in  Seeds.— There  is  a 
saying  in  Kent  that  ox-eye  seeds  and  thistle 
seeds  live  for  ever.  We  also  know  that 
wheat  will  germinate  after  centuries  of  death 
in  life  in  mummy  ^wrappings.  Is  this  ioog 
duration  of  life  in  seeds  unusual?  Is  it 
known  how  long  the  vitality  will  last  in  the 
seeds  of  Bdti^  perennig^  the  common  daisy  of 
our  lawns  and  fields  1  Meoan, 

[For  '  Mummy  Wheat  ^  see  S^  8,  I  iS4.  363,  479; 
ii,  55.  1S7, 296 ;  ili.  246  ;  B**-  8.  iv.  274  ;  and  ref©reao«s 
further  back,] 

HtriTaoN  Famh-y,— Any  notes  as  to  the 
Huitaon  or  Huteson  family  will  be  thankfully 
received.  Col.  John  Huitson  (eighteenth 
century)  bore  coat  armour,  but  no  crest,  I 
have  looked  through  several  worka  on  crests, 
but  am  unable  to  find  one  assigned  to  the 
name.     Perhaps    some   of    the    readers    of 

*  N,  tfe  Q/  might  assist  me  in  this,  and  also 
tell  me  the  origin  of  the  name,  which  is 
said  to  be  Danish.  R* 

James  Justikian  Moeier.— Is  there  any 
reason  why  in  the  list  of  his  works  in  the 

*  Dictionary  of  National  Biography  '  *  The 
Adv^enturesof  Hajji  Babaof  Ispahan  in  Eng- 
land '  (London,  1828,  8vo,  2  vols.)  is  omitted  1 
This  book  was  reviewed  by  Sir  Walter  Scott 
in  the  Quarterlt^  Beview  for  January,  1629 
(vol.  XXX ix.  73^99),  It  was  published  by 
Bentley  in  1835  as  No,  xlv,  of  his  set  of 
**  Standard  Novels,''  and  a  cheap  edition  of  it 
in  yellow  boards  wa«  producea  by  Ward  ^ 
Lock  in  1856.  In  the  same  list  no  mention  is 
made  of  Morier's  'Oriental  Tale,'  Brighton 
(1839)  8vo.  For  'Martin  Troutroud,  or  the 
Frenchman  in  London,*  read  'Martin  Tout- 
rond  :  a  Frenchman  in  London  in  1831/ 

G,  F  R.  B, 

Ghihebe  DmcovERY  OF  America,— Can  any 
one  inform  me  if  there  is  any  trustworthy 
evidence  of  a  Chinese  document  having  been 
found  in  one  of  the  Government  buildings  of 
Pekin  during  the  present  occupation  oi  the 
city,  tins  document  giving  an  account  of 
the  American  continent  having  been  dis- 
covered by  the  Chinese  at  a  period  long 
anterior  to  the  time  of  Columbus?  I  rather 
think  I  saw  a  notice  of  the  above  in  one  of 
the  English  papers  within  the  last  three  or 
four  months.  Elaitd. 

Waller  FAMrLY,--Eaatlv6  ccitLtiftiLV'c«i  %n«c 
been  found  between  Aluwd  4q  N^^i^^t^  cjJl 
Kewark,  who  died  in  W^^  ^xA  tV^  ^tk&^  o\ 


130 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       va^  s.  vil  Feb.  i6,  i90l 


Waller  which  wa,H  settled  in  Kent  in  the  four- 
teenth cjenturj  ?  Any  details  of  these  Kentish 
Wallers  before  1056  will  be  valued,  including 
the  parentage  and  descent  of  their  various 
wives.  I  have  copie-s  of  Berry's  pedigrees  of 
Waller  in  his  Kent  and  Hant^  genealogies. 

H.  M.  Batsoh. 
Hoe  B^uhsni^  Newbury, 

'^NirNTY,*'— I  daregay  there  are  many  of 
your  readers  who  have  never  heard  of  the 
word  nunti/.  In  dialect  it  is  used  in  many 
parts  of  Lngland  from  Northumberland  to 
Sussex.  It  is  known  in  Cumberland,  York- 
ahira,  Nottinghaniahire,  the  counties  of  Lin- 
coln, Leicester,  Northamptoti,  Warwick, 
Shropshire,  in  East  Anglia  and  Kent  It  in 
lased  in  a  bewildering  number  of  senses  which 
are  difficult  to  refer  to  an  original  i-adieal 
meaning.  It  is  generally  applied  to  dress, 
when  it  may  mean  stiff, formal^  old-fashioned, 
precise,  neat,  trim,  aho  dowdy,  Jilovenly, 
shabby,  scanty.  It  is  also  used  of  persons, 
when  it  may  mean  dapper,  chubby,  fat,  stout, 
thickset,  fthort ;  or  it  may  mean  ill-tempered, 
angry,  cross,  sulky.  It  also  has  the  meaning 
of  bandy,  convenient,  snug*  Can  any  of  your 
reA^lery  suggest  what  was  the  ground  idea  of 
this  word  nuntyy  which  has  auch  a  surprising 
development  of  apparently  contradictory 
aenseg?  I  can  find  no  evidence  that  the 
word  waa  ever  used  in  literary  English^  nor 
can  I  find  anything  to  illustrate  it  from  the 
cognate  languages,  1  should  be  glad  £o  dis- 
cover the  etymology  of  this  Protean  adjective* 

A*  L.  May  HEW, 

O^rford. 

NATURE  MYTHS, 
(9*^  S,  vi.  441  ;  vii,  35,) 
I  WISH  to  add  to  Canon  Taylor's  interest- 
ing  set  of  these  one  of  the  myth  of  Br ia reus, 
which  flashed  ujjon  m©  a  few  years  ago  as 
I  saw  Briareus  in  the  sky,  brandishing  his 
score  ("hundred  "  is  merely  a  poetical  exag- 

f  oration)  of  long  black  arra«  out  to  the  very 
orizon,  and  ob^'iously  feeling  for  something 
there  with  their  flickering  taper  ends.    Our 
vulgar  age  calls  him  an  Aurora  Boreal  is.    On 
this  occasion  his  body  was  exactly  like  that 
of  a  giant  cuttlefiKh  slightly  south-e^st  of  my 
meridian,   with  strrsams  of   luminous   sepia 
pouring  into  his  centre  like  torrents  over  a 
precipice,  and  the  waving  arms,  like  thoi^e  of 
some  titanic  devil-fish,  extended    in  every 
direction  across  the  sky  to  the  limits  of  sight, 
ihe  finger-like  ends  "  wiggling,"  as  the  U)ys  I 
saj^,  moat  suggestively.    It  was  evident  that 


not  all  the  gods  on  Olympus  together  could 
have  stood  up  against  him^  and  apparently 
he  was  reaching  for  them. 

While  on  this  subject,  may  I  add  that  it 
seems  to  me  Mr,  Spencer  takes  a  wrong  view 
of  the  process  involve*!,  in  disfavouring  nature 
myths  on  the  ground  that  they  imply  an  in- 
teliectnai  curiosity  about  causes  and  eflTects 
which  savages  do  not  possess]  The  aavage 
who  saw  w^hat  looked  tike  a  ship,  a  city,  a 
monstrous  beast  or  reptile,  or  a  many  armed 
liveij?  lieing  reacliing  after  some  one  or  some- 
thing up  in  the  sky,  and  called  it  the  Argo^ 
or  Asgard,  or  the  Chimsera,  or  Briareus,  was 
not  conscious  of  any  abstruse  logical  process, 
or  of  any  more  intellectual  curiosity  than  if 
he  saw  a  new  animal  on  the  mountain  side 
and  called  it  by  some  new  name  to  describe 
or  identify  it.  He  was  simply  naming  a  thing 
he  supposed  he  saw  ;  he  could  hardly  help 
trying  to  do  it  What  other  explanation  was 
there  i>ossible  to  him  than  that  these  were 
real  objects,  only  far  away  and  gigantic  and 
supernatural  1  And  once  placed  in  the  cate- 
gory of  realities,  what  more  natural  and 
inevitable  than  for  story-tellers  to  develope 
increasingly  minute  accounts  of  their  rela- 
tions and  adventures  1  these,  of  course,  fol- 
lowing the  form  and  fashion  of  the  earthly 
experiences  known  to  the  i-elaters       F,  M. 


"  Shimmozzel  "  (9^  S,  vi  266, 371  ;  vii.  10).— 
In  his  interejiting  letter  at  the  last  reference 
Mr.  Davis  says,  **  Connexion  between  a  cab 
and  the  Hebrew  noun  for  blackguard  is 
difficult  to  understand  or  follow."  The 
explanation  is  given  by  Henry  May  hew  in 
the  third  volume  of  his  '  London  Labour  and 
the  London  Poor,*  p.  361,  "The  hansoms,"^ 
he  says,  "are  always  called  showftdis  by  the 
cabmen  ;  ^how/ull  in  slang  means  counterfeit, 
and  the  skow/uH  cabs  are  an  infringement 
on  Hansom's  patent."  JSko/til  is  applied  in 
English  slang  to  other  things  besides  cabs. 
but  always  with  the  same  connotation  of 
worthlessness  It  is  applied  to  forged  bank^ 
notes  ("  shof  ul-finnufs  or  "shoful-pennifs^X 
to  bad  money,  to  mock  jewellery,  to  plate  that 
masquerades  m  silver,  to  patched  clothing,  to 
a  rackety  beershop,  to  an  unsteady  woman, 
*fec.  Jab,  Platt,  Jun, 

Chayasse  Family  (9^^  S.  Yii,  4S>— In  isas 
Thomas  Chavasse  was  in  practice  as  a  fiurgeoti. 
at  23,  Temple  Row,  Birmingham.  This  Thomas 
Chavasse  was  M.R.C.S.Eng.  and  L.S.A.  1822, 
FR.C.S.  1844.  He  subsequently  lived  at 
Wylde  Green  House,  Birmingham,  at  which 
I  address  his  son  (at  present  of  22,  Temple  Row, 
^^  BiTmin%Vi8bXXi^  TW&aft  Frederick   Chavasae 


9^  S.  VIL  Feb.  16. 1901.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


131 


lived.    Dr.  T.  F.  Chavasse  is  M.D.Edin.  1878, 
M.B.    and    C.M.    1876,    F.R.C.S.Edin.    1878, 
M.R.C.b.  and  L.S.A.  1876.     He  is  J.  P.  for  the 
<»"nfy  of  Warwick.    Pye  Henry  Chavasso, 
widely  known  as  author  of  books  for  mothers, 
was  in  practice  at  12,  The  Square,  Birming- 
fe^S'^o*^®    ^***    M.K.C.S.  and   L.S.A.   1833, 
t.K.C.S.  1852.  Samuel  Chavassewas  M.R.C.S. 
1M2,  and  practised  at  100,  New  Hall  Street. 
Birmingham.     Howard  Sidney   Chavasse  is 
m  practice  at  Sutton  Coldfield.    He  is  L.S.A. 
1893,andL.R.C.P.  and  M.K.C.S.  1894.  The  Rpv. 
Francis  James  Chavasse  was  of  CC.C,  Ox- 
ford, B.  A.  1869,  MA.  1872,  deacon  1870,  ordained 
pnest  1871  by  the  Bishop  of  Manchester,  Com- 
nussioner  for  Travancore  1890,  for  Kiushiu 
18d3,  Examining  Chaplain  to  the  Bishop  of 
Exeter  1896,  Principal  of  Wycliflfe  Hall,  Ox- 
ford, 1889,  Lecturer  in  Pastoral  Theology  at 
Cambridge  1898.  He  resides  at  Wycliffe  Lodge, 
Oxford,  and  was  formerly  curate  of  St.  Paul's, 
Proton,  1870-3  ;   vicar  of  St.  Paul's,  Upper 
H*wav,   1873-8;    rector    of    St.   Peter-le- 
fl&iley,  Oxford,  1878-89  ;  Select  Preacher  at 
Oxford  1888-9,  and  at  Cambridge  1893. 

The  Rev.  Horace  Chavasse  was  of  Worcester 
College,  Oxford,  B.A.  1824,  M.A.  1827,  and 
^a8  ordained  deacon  in  1826  and  priest  in 
Ui28.  He  was  instituted  to  the  vicariate  of 
Rushall,  near  Walsall,  in  1842. 

The  Rev.  Ludovick  Thomas  Chavasse  was  of 
St  Peter's  College,  Cambridge,  B.A.  1851,  M.A. 
1854.  He  was  ordained  deacon  by  the  Bishop 
of  Manchester  in  1852,  andjpriest  the  follow- 
ing year  by  the  Bishop  of  Worcester.  He  was 
inducted  vicar  of  St.  Saviour's,  Camberwell, 
1^'  ?^^  ^^  formerly  curate  of  Christ 
Uurch,  Birmingham;  Wendover,  Bucks; 
ot  Peter's,  Coventry;  and  St.  Matthew's, 
i^enmark  Hill.  He  was  vicar  of  Rushall, 
otaffs,  from  1862  to  1867. 
_    ,  Chas.  F.  Forshaw, 

Bradford. 


3«.,  of  that  interesting  publication  entitled 
'Solomon's  Guide  to  Health,'  published  by 
Mathews,  18,  Strand,  and  all  Booksellers," 
was  advertised  on  3  January,  1801,  with  an 
'*  extract  of  the  character  given  of  this  work  in  the 
Sun,  iS'/ar,  Courier,  Albion,  Timea,  Daily  Advert uttr^ 
Mornimj  Chronicle,  and  most  of  the  literary  journals 
in  Europe.  We  have  the  satisfaction  of  announcing 
another  edition  of  Dr.  Solomon's  incomparable 
*  Guide  to  Health,'  a  book  which  has  met  with  the 
most  extensive  sale  of  any  medical  production 
we  ever  heard  of.  The  best  and  most  approved 
remedies  are  pointed  out  for  the  various  disorders 
on  which  it  treats,  as  well  as  directions  for  general 
health,  highly  interesting  to  persons  of  every 
denomination." 

B.  D.  MOSELEY. 
Burslem. 

CoL.  Prideaux  will  find  all  the  epigrams 
transcribed  by  him  from  *  Poetical  Recrea- 
tions of  the  Champion  '  (9^''  S.  vi.  442)  in  the 
collected  edition  of  Lamb  published  bjr 
Moxon  in  1876,  with  Mr.  Percy  Fitzgerald  s 
name  as  editor  (vol.  vi.).  I  am  afraid  it  will 
need  further  evidence  than  the  initials 
**  M.  L."  to  make  us  accept  the  lines  with 
which  he  concludes  as  tne  composition  of 
Mary  Lamb.  J.  A.  R. 

"Smous"  (d^^  S.  vi.  409,  493).— This  word 
is  very  uncommon.  I  had  met  it  only  in 
Macklin's  comedy  until  recently.  In  *  South 
African  Recollections/  ch.  ii.  (1899),  Mrs. 
Lionel  Phillips  says,  "Even  the  wandering 
*Smou8e'  had  not  penetrated  so  far."  Did  she 
get  the  word  from  Macklin  ? 

Richard  H.  Thornton. 

Portland,  Oregon. 

Welsh  Manuscript  Pedigrees  (9^''  S.  iv. 
412,  483;  v.  109,  358).— Permit  me  to  add  to 
my  contributions  on  this  subject.     I  am  in- 
debted  to  Mr.  Edward  Owen,  of  the  India 
Office,   for  information    respecting    another 
most  valuable    MS.    (Harl.    1969)    which    is 
written  in  precisely  the  same  form  as  Peter 
Ellis  (Harl.    28,033"  and  28,034),    Harl.   2299, 
and    the    Hengwrt    MS.    (in    the    Peniarth 
Library),   and   is  clearly   derived   from    the 
same  source  or  from  the  same  authorities, 
quit-e  a  distinct  sot  of  authors  from  that  of 
*The  Golden  Grove  Bo(^'  David  Edwards, 
«fec.     Harl.  1969  is  very  superior  to  both  2299 
and  the  Hengwrt  copv,  inasmuch  as  it  con- 
tains many  additional  references,   but  it  is 
not  so  valuable  as  Peter  Ellis,  which  contains 
many  more.     On  the  outside  of  the  former 
Chari^s    Lamb    and    *The    Champion'   cover  of  this  MS.  is  written  "G.  H.  Welsh 
(9**  8   vi.  442 ;  vii.  12). — Solomon  wrote  the    and    some    English    pedigrees,    written    bv 
Guide  to  Health.'     "An  entire,  new  and    Griffith  Hughes   95  25  5/1969,  IS/V  H."      U 
d^gant  edition,  in  one  pocket  volume,  with  I  contains  about  000  pa^en^  a\\v\  HViva^  v^'Ow^v 
•0  elegant  portrait  of  the  author,  price  ouiy  /MSS.  are  bound  up  witVv  *\\,.    lX»  \vw^  \a^c\^ 


LL.D. 


The  ancestor  of  the  family  was  a  French- 
n^an,  a  Roman  Catholic,  and  godson  and 
«^tAry  to  Lord  Der  went  water.  I  have  a 
Pwigree  of  the  earlier  members  of  the  house 
*nd  of  such  of  the  later  ones  as  are  ancestors 
"fmyown.  Such  biographical  details  as  I 
also  have  are  at  Mr.  Smith's  service,  if  he  will 
Communicate  with  me  concerning  those  per- 
sonjj  aboiit  whom  he  desires  information. 

J.  Sargeaunt. 
Keform  Club. 


132 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [»*  s.  vil  Fn.  w.  iwi. 


of  eon  ten  ta,  of  the  leading  pedigreea,  those  of 
t be  fifteen  tribes,  and  two  indices  (one  of 
pedigrees,  the  other  of  places),  both  in  the 
handwritinff  of  Handle  Holme,  in  whose 
col  lee  tion  th  is  M  B.  w  aii  f  on  nd.  1 1  ia  e  vide  n  tl  v 
merely  written — that  ih^  copied— by  Griffith 
Hnghea,  for  it  cnn tains  no  8ign»  of  original 
workf  and  is  of  an  earlier  date,  though  it  includes 
his  own  pedigree  (at  p,  239),  in  which  h©  de- 
Bcnbea  hiraaelf  as  "  Deputy  to  the  Office  of 
Arma,"  Mr.  Owen  informs  me  that  he  found 
a  date  1637  at  folio  220. 

Mr,  Hughes,  of  Kinmel  Park^  hag  been  so 
kind  a^  to  give  me  a  good  account  of  the 
writer,  from  which  it  appears  that  in  1634  he 
compiled  a  pedigree  of  Sir  Peter  Motton,  and 
fifty -five  years  later  one  for  Sir  John  Con- 
way»     Harl  2006^  pedigrees  of  the  nobility 
and   othera    (1665X   was   compiled    by    him 
and   Ran  die  Holme.     The   greater  part   of 
the  pefJigrees  are  not  brougnt  down  to  the 
period  of  Peter  Ellis,  and  in  ^ving  the  pedi- 
gree of  Peter*8  parents  Peter  is  not  included. 
As  Griffith  Hughes  wa^  of  a  later  generation, 
this  shows  that  he  was  not  the  compiler  of 
the  book:  but  it  is  quite  clear  that  both 
Peter  anci   himself   copied    from    the    same 
origin  alt  for  not  only  are  most  of  the  pedi- 
grees  in  identical  words  and  forms,  but  the 
authorities  given  in  the  margin  are  precisely 
the  same  and  are  given  in  the  same  order. 
I   ventured  to  suggest^  in  an  article  in  the 
Arehwologia  Cambrmii$,  that  Mr,  Edwards,  of 
Chirk,  was  the  original  of  Peter  Ellis  :  and 
this  MS,  confirms  the  idea,  for  wbUst  all  the 
authorities  referred  to  by  Peter  Ellia  are  to 
be  found  here,  there  is  no  mention  of  Mr, 
Edwards.    The  first  authority  in  G.  Hughes, 
as  in  Peter  Ellis,  2299,  and  the  Hengwrt  MS.,  is 
always  Edward  Pules  ton,  who,  I  take  it,  was 
the  copyist  of  Ed  wards  of  Clurk,    Much  of 
this  work  is,   I   think,  copied    direct   from 
GrifStb  Hieratboc,  especially  a  pedigree  of 
the  issue  of  Owen  Glendower,  which  has  the 
addition  of  the  issue  of  his  son  Jevan  to  the 
third    generation,    when    Catherine    verch 
Edwarti  ap  Robert  ap  Jevan  married  Griffith 
Hierathoc.    Henry  Vll/s  pedigree  terminates 
with  his  father.     I  see  from  the  unfinished 
catalogae  of  the  Peniarth  Libi^ry  that  the 
works  of  Griffith   Hierathoc  and  Simwvnt 
Vachan  are  largely  represented,  though  when 
Mr.  Wynne  kindly  gave  me  permission  to  see 
them  Mr.  Evans  in  formed  me  that  they  were 
not  there,  so  that  I   had    ray  journey  for 
nothing  :  and  I  am  not  very  much  surprised 
to  sae  that  Mr.   Evans  ha^  rearranged   the 
MSB.  so  that  those  in  which  I  am    chiefly 
mierested  &nd  which  bear  upon  the  subject 
af  my  communication  &re  wholly  omitted. 


Possibly  Mr.  Evans  has  not  yet  made  up  his 
mind  how  to  account  for  his  extraordinary 
error  in  mistaking  No,  96  for  Robert 
Vaughan's  autograph.  It  is  a  pity  he  should 
have  disarranged  the  library,  for  it  displace* 
old  landmarks  and  confuses  the  work  of 
greater  antiquaries.  Goodness  knows  that 
Welsh  MSS,  are  confusing  enough.  His  work 
should  have  cleared  up  many  doubts.  The 
issue  of  such  a  volume,  too,  without  an  index 
is  distressing.  If  a  great  portion  of  the  use- 
less matter  had  been  cut  out,  the  whole 
might  have  been  issued  within  a  reasonable 
compass.  I  call  it  ''useles?s"  because  it  is 
valueless  for  philological  purposes,  and  only 
of  interest  to  the  illiterate  Welshmen  of 
the  present  day,  who  know  their  language 
from  wretched  patois,  or  at  best  from  the 
poor  translation  of  the  English  Bible^  which 
stands  in  the  same  relation  to  ancient  Welsh 
that  Luther's  dialect  does  to  the  myriad 
languages  of  Germany —only  a  little  better 
than  the  lingo  of  the  (Jhristy  Minstrels-  The 
sooner  mo^iern  Welsh  is  forgotten  the  better ; 
it  is  onlj  a  hindrance  to  poor  people.  I 
write  this  with  the  utmost  respect  tor  the 
ancient  Welsh,  which  Mr  Evans  doe^  not 
appear  to  understand.  A  grand  collection 
like  that  of  Peniarth  deserves  to  be  properly 
edited  or  catalogued.  Pym  Yeatman, 

25.  West  leth  Street,  New  ^ork. 

Losses  ik  the  American  Civil  Wae  (9*^  S. 
vi.  ^%  436).— On  this  subject  see'  Kegimental 
Losses  in  the  American  Civil  War,  1861-5/ 
by  Wm.  F,  Fo^,  Lieut,-Col,  U.S.V.  (Albany, 
N,y,,  Albany  Publishing  Co,  1893);  'Numbers 
and  Losses  in  the  Civil  War  in  America^ 
1801-65,'  by  Thos,  L.  Livermore,  colonel  of 
volunteers  V  Boston  and  New  York.  Hough- 
ton, Mifflin  k  Co.,  1900),  See  also  Mul hall's 
*  Dictionary  of  Statistics*  (London,  Routledge 
k  Sons,  im%y  American. 

Skneca  and  Galen  ;  Teaks lations 
Wanted  (9'^'^  S,  vi  387)*— Them  is  an  English 
translation  of  '  Natural  Questions  '  (not 
annotated)  in  ^*  The  Workea  of  Lucius  Annmui 
Seneca.  Newly  Inlarged  and  Corrected  by 
Thomas  Lodge,  D.M.R  London,  Printed  by 
WOli:  Stansby.  1610,"  Lodge's,  I  think,  is 
the  only  English  translation  of  'Natural 
Questions.'  The  book  is  somewhat  scarce.  It 
is  not  unlikely  that  a  copy  would  be  found  at 
Wejjitell  3  (New  Oxford  Street)  or  at  Quaritch's 
(Piccadilly). 

Mr,  Aubrey  Stewart  in  his  preface  to  his 

translation  of  *  Seneca  on  Benefits*  (OecKrge 

Bell  &  Sons,  1687>,  p,  v,  saya^  "Since  Lodgers 

edition  ffol.,  1614),  ^^  complete  translation  of 

|BeB«c&\v^  Wu  ^ublUbod  m  Engl&ad/^    I 


••^s.vn.Fn.ie.iwi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


133 


thiiik  th»t  a  translation  of  '  Natural  Quej- 
tiana'  is  not  included  in  the  Bohn  series. 
Messrs,  Gamier  Fr^rtju  {PariB,  1885)  have 
mbUabed  "(Euvres  Completes  de  Sdneque(Le 
PhOosopheX  a^ec  la  Trad  action  Fran^aise  de 
h  Oolfaction  Panckoucke."  It  is  in  four 
Tolnmesif  costing  in  paper  covers,  according 
to  the  publishers'  list,  fourteen  franca,  I 
boa^ht  my  bound  copy  sorae  twelve  year« 
Ago  m  Paris  for  twelve  francs,  new,  Messrs, 
G«.mier  publbh  a  similar  volume  containiiij^^ 
tho  'Tragedies  de  St^n^ue.* 

The  "Manual  of  Claaaical  Literature, 
frtjfD    the   German    of    J.    J,    Eschenburg 

with  Additions.****, by  N.  W.   Fisk© 

Fomh  Edition Philadelphia  .„„,  1844/* 

which  gives  Ust«  of  translations  into  modern 
wigua^  (not  always  compIeteX  mentions 
ofie  onHnished  tran  Nation-  of  the  works  of 
Galen  into  German  only. 

Robert  Pierpoiht, 
St  AmlmX  WarringtoB, 

AsaiLL  IsLAKB  i^  B.  vi.  489 ;  vii.  36),-- 
™t  is  mentioned  in  the  *  Annals  of  Loch 
tX  or  *  Book  of  the  O'Duigenans,'  under  the 
}w  1233,  as  £ccuiil,  and  in  the  *  Annals  of 
wje  Four  Majiters,*  under  the  same  year,  as 
£fimiL  Tbetie  forma  would  not,  1  think, 
yidd  '*ea|s1e,"  In  Irish  ec^  mc,  mean  a  horse, 
»od  aii'l  a  corner  recess  :  but  how  to  con- 
strae  them  in  compound  I  do  not  know- 
Irish  dictionaries  are  not  comprehensive. 
Theie  arei  or  lately  were,  eagles  in  Achill, 
tat  I  flhould  think  a  yew- tree  never  grew 
were.  W.  H.  Duionan* 

Achill  (o^f^)  means  '*  church  ford/*  a  being 
ope  of  the  forms  of  aih^  a  ford,  in  composi* 
^iL  The  ford  is  across  the  sound  near 
KiHavnet  Castle*        (Mrs,)  M.  O^Hanuh*?. 

The  IautoU,  Walthatiwtow, 

Eably  Stbam  Navigation  (9"^  S.  vi.  368, 
J*ft ;  vii*  18),— Me.  Eveeabd  Home  Colkmah 
H^  read  too  much  into  my  note*  I  certainly 
inteuded  to  make  no  hotheaded  claim  for 
^o^rpooL  I  merely  said  that  the  Liverpool 
%«!  William  and  the  Bristol  Great  Western 
^ere  probably  the  first  real  passenger  steamers 
focfotg  without  recoaling.  There  is  notliing 
in  the  claim;!  of  the  Sirius  U:t  we^iken  this 
^^pstion*  In  those  early  days  it  made  a 
*«ded  difference  whether  you  left  from 
l^flgUnd,  particularly  from  Liverpool,  or 
from  the  south  of  Ireland,  Tlie  8irius  sailed 
mm  Qofiemtowo  (*'  the  Cove  of  Cork,"  as  it 
*i«  then),  and  arrived  a  few  hours  before  the 
Great  Western,     In  no  sense  could  she  be 


from  Ireland  was  her  first  and  last.  The  Royal 
Wiiiiara  returnerl  with  passengers  (at  150 
dollars  each)  and  mails,  and  was  the  pioneer 
of  a  regular  Atlantic  service.  The  *  Atlantic 
Ferry '  deals  fully  with  the  Sirius,  and  yet 
tabulates  the  Royal  William  as  the  first 
passenaer  steamer*  If  I  had  no  other  object 
than  that  of  advancing  local  claims  at  any 
C4}st^  the  Sirius  would  serve  the  purpose  as 
well  as  any  other  steamer-  for  John  Laird 
was  tlie  leading  spirit  of  the  Steam  Navigation 
Company  that  chartered  her*  By  the  way,  it 
ia  difficult  to  see  why  "justice  to  Ireland" 
should  be  urged  in  the  matter.  The  Sirius 
was  built  and  engined  in  Scotland  and  owned 
in  England,  The  name  of  her  captain, 
Roberts,  is  not  reminiscent  of  Ireland,  It 
is  true  she  aailef]  from  Queenstown,  bat  under 
the  ci  re  urn  stances  I  venture  to  say  that  makes 
no  difference.  Geokgk  Marshall 

S«fton  Fftrk,  Liverpool* 

" Pth  and  Bowl"  as  ah  Inn  Sign  (8^^  S.  ix. 
424  ;  XL  34,  120).—"  Pin  "  here  is  in  the  singu- 
lar, because  the  corner  pin  in  the  ancient 
game  of  skittles,  ninepins,  or  kayles,  as  they 
were  variously  called,  was  the  key  of  the 
situation.  The  sign  was  put  up  to  signify 
the  attractions  of  a  bowling-green,  whence 
such  a  resort  was  designated  a  **  greenhouse  " 
or  "garden 'house,'' and  denoted  the  "enter- 
tainment" provided  by  a  tavern  rather  than 
that  of  an  inn.  The  order  was  reversed  in 
the  case  of  the  "  Bowl  and  Pin,"  a  tavern  in 
Upper  Thames  Street  in  1781,  where  the  Cat 
and  Fiddle  Society  held  their  monthly  meet- 
ings C  Banks  ColL  Admission  Tickets,^  B.M., 
portfolio  1)*  It  ia  noteworthy  that  there  waa 
a  "  Three  Bowls  "  in  Drury  Ijane,  near  Craven 
House  (see  *  Bagf ocd  Bills,'  KM.,  fol.  36, 
No.  156;  Harl  MS.  5,931)  and  a  "Skittle- 
ball  and  Two  Pins"  in  Bedfordbury  (VBeau- 
foy  Tokens,'  No.  137);  and  it  is  of  special 
intej'est  to  find  the  only  survi\4nff  instance 
in  London  of  the  "  Corner  Pin,"  unless  it  has 
lately  been  effaced,  at  No.  2,  Goswell  Road, 
formerly  Goswell  Street,  the  ancient  highway 
between  London  and  Merry  Islington,  which 
"pleasant  rural  village"  it  preceded  in  the 
attractions  of  its  pleasure  resorts  for  pros- 
perous "  cit."  and  easily  huffeel  flat- cap.  Stow 
m  his  '  Survey '  (p,  160)  alludes  to  these 
attractions : — 

"Thon^  irom  the  farther  end  of  Alders^ate 
street,  straight  north  t^^  the  bar,  is  called  Goswell 
struct,  replenishod  with  fiTnall  tenements,  cottagea 
and  alleyj?^  garden a^  banqueting^ houses,  and  bowl- 
ing-places. 

The  game  of  bowls  has  been  traced  to  a. 
period  as  early  aa  1^40,  a.nd  Tacrti^ttW  wA 


(«lied  arealp&aaepgeFdtaam^r*  Th&t  crossing  /naagiBtrntea  have  otteu  pto\\\\a\^  ^%  %%m^ 


134 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»^  s.  vn.  Feb.  le.  1901. 


to  be  played  at  all,  probably  because  it  is  a 
comparatively  unathletic  one.  In  the  reign 
of  Richard  II.  it  was  so  forbidden,  because  it 
was  found  that  the  lower  orders  neglected 
the  more  manly  and  useful  practice  of 
archery,  a  precedent  which  may  perhaps  be 
cited  in  favour  of  a  more  equable  apprecia- 
tion of  the  relative  value,  in  modern  times, 
of  the  billiard-room  and  the  rifle  club,  or  of 
hooliganism  and  gymnastics.  The  **  Bowl'* 
Tavern  in  St.  Giles's,  Bloomsbury,  is  said  to 
have  taken  its  sign  from  the  custom  of  pre- 
senting a  bowl  of  ale  at  St.  Giles's  Hospital 
to  criminals  on  their  way  to  execution  at 
Tyburn  (Stow,  p.  164) ;  but  such  an  un- 
pleasant origin  is  not  usual  with  London 
signs.  Is  it  not  more  probable  that  it  was 
adopted  to  denote  the  game  of  bowls,  or,  more 
probably  still,  to  commemorate  the  revived 
legality  of  the  ancient  game,  after  being  so 
frequently  suppressed  ?  Strutt  ('  Sports  and 
Pastimes,'  erJ.  1810,  4to,  Introd.,  p.  xliv) 
remembered  that  in  the  year  1780  the  magis- 
trates caused  all  the  skittle-frames  to  be 
taken  up,  when  the  devotees  of  the  game 
found  a  subterfuge  in  the  game  of  **  nine- 
holes,"  which  they  called  "  oubble  the  ius- 
tice,"  in  the  belief  that  they  had  hoodwinked 
the  magistrates.  In  1796  one  of  the  frames 
used  in  the  old  game  of  skittles  is  alluded  to 
by  a  writer  as  to  be  seen  utilized  as  a  window 
in  an  old  hall  at  Ribchester,  near  Blackburn. 
It  was  2  ft.  square,  made  of  oak,  and  "jointed 
together  very  strong,"  with  the  general  rules 
to  oe  observed  cut  upon  it,  which  were  then 
very  legible.  Within  the  frame  were  these 
lines  :— 

Bowie  stroDge,  hitt  the  frame  without,  and  misse 

the  frame  within. 
The  King,  Two  Lordea,  with  their  attendants,  the 
game  will  bringe. 

A.D.  1^6  {Gent.  Mag,,  Aujf.,  1796,  and 
Qen.  Joumu,  1693). 
J.    HOLDEN   MacMiCHAEL. 
Wimbledon  Park  Road. 

WooRE,  IN  Salop  (9^*»  S.  v.  128,  236  ;  vi.  33, 
157,  218,  312).— Prof.  Skeat's  suggestion 
(9*  S.  vi.  312)  that  Woore  represents  Anglo- 
Saxon  wor,  "which  seems  to  have  meant  a 
p<x)l,"  is  not  supported  by  the  forms.  Woore 
18  unmistakably  Wavre  in  *  Domesday,'  which 
also  records  three  other  Wavre,  a  Wavre  tone, 
and  a  Wavretren.  I  think  it  impossible  that 
these  forms  can  have  any  reference  to  wur. 
That  word  is  in  itself  unsatisfactory  :  Toller- 
Bos  worth  omits  it  altogether,  ana  Sweet 
(* Anglo-Saxon  Dictionary')  gives  the  word 
without  any  meaning,  except  in  compound, 
&ad  then  it  seems  to  point  to  a  "  moor."  I 
think  the  credit  of  interpreting  Woore  is  due 


to  Mr.  Henry  Harrison  (9^  S.  vi.  33),  who 
suggests  that  Wavre  refers  to  the  aspen  or 
wavering  poplar,  also  to  quaking  or  waver- 
ing grass  ;  and  this  seems  to  be  the  construc- 
tion adopted  by  continental  philologists, 
Waver  being  as  common  a  place-name  in 
France  and  Belgium  as  it  is  here.  Waifre 
(the  Anglo  Saxon  form  of  Waver)  only 
appears  in  the  dictionaries  as  an  adjective, 
meaning  wavering,  quivering,  but  all  Anglo- 
Saxon  dictionaries  are  necessarilj[  imperfect 
The  use  of  the  word  as  a  substantive,  and  its 
application  to  a  tree  or  plants  of  wavering 
habits,  seem  very  likely 

Prop.  Skeat  writes  (v.  Harrison's  'Place- 
Names  of  the  Liverpool  District,'  s.  *  Waver- 
tree').  "Chaucer  has  wippletree  for  the 
cornel-tree,  meaning  waving  tree,  and  the 
Anglo-Saxon  wctfer =a\w&yH  on  the  move, 
vibrating  ;  waver-tree  would  be  a  splendid 
word  for  an  aspen.''  Waver  seems  to  have 
survived  in  a  dialectic  form,  as  the  word  in 
still  applied  to  young  timberlings  left  stand- 
ing in  a  fallen  wood  (Halliwell's  'Dictionary 
of  Archaic  and  Provincial  Wonls,'  s.  'Waver'). 
Having  been  drawn  up,  and  being  thin,  they 
naturally  roll  about  with  the  wind  ;  hence 
the  name.  The  change  from  "  waver"  to  "  war" 
or  "  woore  "  I  should  attribute  to  the  fact  that 
after  the  Conquest  u  was  commonly  written 
for  V  between  vowels  or  before  re.  The 
'  Domesday  '  Wavre  being  written  Waui-e,  the 
spelling  ultimately  prevailed. 

W.  H.  DUIGNAN. 

Walsall. 

"Thackeray's  bed  books"  (9"^  S.  vii.  29). 
—Does  this  refer  to  the  opening  sentences  of 
the  second  of  the  '  Roundabout  Papers,'  that 
on  '  Two  Children  in  Mask '  1— 

**  Montaigne  and  Howeirs  *  Letters'  are  my  bed- 
side books.  If  I  wake  at  night,  I  have  one  or  other 
of  them  to  prattle  me  to  sleep  again.  They  talk 
about  themselves  for  ever,  and  don't  weary  me.  1 
like  to  hear  them  tell  their  old  stories  over  and 
over  again.  I  read  them  -in  the  dozy  hours,  and 
only  half  remember  them." 

G.  L.  Apperson. 

Sir  William  F.  Carroll  (9"»  S.  vii.  27).— 
Sir  William  Fairbrother  Carroll  wa«  the  sor» 
of  David   Carroll,  Esq.,  barrister-at-law,  of 
Uskane,    co.    Tipperary,   born    28    January, 
1784,  at  Glencarig,  co.  Wicklow.     He  married, 
3    August,    1813,    Martha    Milligen,    eldest 
daughter     of     Vice -Admiral    Sir    Richard 
Daores    and     Martha   Phillips    Milligen   his 
wife,  son  of  Richard  Dacres,  secretary  to  the 
garrison   of  Gibraltar,  descended   from  the 
family  of  Dacres  of  Leatherhead,  in  Surrey, 
supposed  to  be  a  branch  of  the  line  of  Dacre 
^olm^'^otX.Vv.   loHNA  was  two  sons  and  seven 


y^8.viLFBB.i6.i90i.)        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


135 


daughters;  the  eldest  son,  WilHam,  died  a 
liea tenant  R.N.  Lady  Carroll  wa§  sifter  of 
Capt.  Sidney  ColpoyH  Dae  res,  R.N,  niece  of 
James  Richani  Dacres,  Vice- Admiral  of  the 
Red,  and  cousin  of  Bear- Admiral  Daerew. 
John  Radcuffe. 

In  an  old  *  Knightage'  in  my  possession 
(dated  1856)  he  is  stat^  to  have  married  in 
1813  Martha,  daughter  of  Adrairal  Sir  R. 
Dacre%  aC.H.  \V,  D.  ?ikk. 

Broken  on  the  Wheel  (9^^  B.  vi.  2in,  314, 
373,  455,  513).—  ^^  It  was  in  UBS  that  the  la«t 
instance  of  a  sentence  of  breaking  on  the 
wheel  occurred,"  So  coinnaences  chap.  xix.  of 
*Meraoira  of  the  Sans^onn/  the  here<Htary 
executionerji  of  France.  In  thi,^  instance 
the  populace  of  Versailles  prevented  the 
sentence  being  earriecl  into  effect,  Thev 
rescued  the  prisoner  and  burnt  the  scaffblff. 
Henry  San-^on  says  that  the  old  criminal 
legislatiun  of  France  inflicteri  tfiij^  putnHh- 
ment  in  one  hundred  and  fifteen  kinds  of 
crime.    He  adds  :— 

"From  1770  to  1780  I  find  in  my  grand father'a 
notes  tkat  Qul|>rita  broken  on  the  w  hocsl  wero  fjir 
more  namerou*  than  those  who  peril! Iitjd  hy  the 
no'JW — I  fconid  fill  half  a  vulumo  with  the  iiamea 
of  culj^fiu  who  wer©  broken.  The  wheel  atway« 
excited  The  disigust  of  the  public  al  large,  and  all 
thejpetiiiutmfjf  the  depuliefl  ta  the  fc^Utea- Genera  I 
ij»  1*89  asked  for  its  abolilloa,'*— '  MeniQirt  of  the 
!»Mont;  p.  182, 

Mr.  filbert  Hartshorne,  in  his  grue'sotne 
little  bcMjk  entitled  *  Hanging  in  Chains' 
(Xew  York,  Ca^siiell  Publishing  Com  pan  Ji 
1893),  jjtatea  that  the  last  sentence  of  break- 
ing on  the  wheel  wa-i  carried  out  at  Vienna 
in  1786.  He  does  not  give  his  authority  for 
the  statement.  W.  K.  W^ilson. 

Ancient  Maebiaoe  Custom  in  Noetu- 
uHBERLAJiD  (9th  ^  ^i  s)  _in  1874,  and  in 
several  year>i  previous  to  this,  I  a^ni^tted  in 
jumpiog  a  bride  over  the  jumping -atone 
placed  at  the  entrance  of  the  purcli  of  the 
church  at  Woodhorn.  Northumberland.  This 
performance  took  place  as  the  l>ridal  party 
J^ere  leaving  the  church.  Its?  omission  would 
M?ebeen  considered  very  unlucky. 

J.  B.  W 

National  Nicknames  (S)*'^  S.  iv,  28,  *},  212, 
238,  296,  401).  — Re^idRnt^  in  the  Western 
State  of  Oregon,  U.S.,  ai'e  known  in  the 
btates  as  •"Web-feet,"  rain  being  as  pro- 
jerbial  there  as  in  Manchesiter  or  Fort 
William,  N.B.  They  are  ako  calletl  **  Moss- 
hcks.''  Mom  growa  abundantly  iJi  that 
particular  stata,  and  as  Oregonians,  taken  a^i 


mo^s  grows  upon  their  backs.  One  bushv 
kind  of  raoss  is  often  to  be  seen  there  on  oalc 
trees,  looking  for  all  the  world  like  a  man's 
long  beard  or  a  horse's  tail.  There  is  also  a 
rarer  species  that  runs  from  tree  to  tree  like 
a  spider's  web  in  continuous  lengths  of  fully 
thirty  or  forty  feet.  Earey  Hems. 

Fair  Pflirk,  Exeter, 

Healing  Stone  (9^^  S.  vi.  370,  477  ;  vii,  12), 
—Dr.  Williato  Wright  gives  an  account  of 
two  inscribed  stones  in  Syria  reputed  to  pos- 
sess healing  properties.  Of  one  at  Hamath 
be  writej* :— 

**  We  were  toM  that  a  great  many  rheumartic 
people  bad  been  cured  by  stretching  themselves  on 
this  stone,  aod  onr  informants  aflaiLred  ua  that  it 
wasi  equaUy  efiicacioua  to  the  true  believer  calling 
on  the  nanie  of  Mohammed,  and  to  the  unbelieving 
Xri^ara  mtitt^rinj;  the  names  of  St»  George  atjd  th« 
Virgin  Mary.  The  inscTibed  jmH  was  simply  cut 
off  tne  stone  and  carried  to  the  8erai.  It  would  be 
interestlnjg  to  know  if  the  remaining  fmrt  lo«t  its 
healing  virtue  when  the  inscription  waa  cat  oC"— 
'  Kjnjnre  of  the  Hittites/  p.  140. 

The    inscription    is    now    at    the    Imperial 

Museum,  Constantinople,  Of  an  inscription 
at  Aleppo,  since  destroyed  by  the  MoHlems  to 
prevent  ita  falhng  into  profane  hands,  Dr. 
Wright  says,  on  the  authority  of  Mr.  Bos- 
cawen,  that 

'*  the  stone  was  worn  away  by  the  fi€op1e  rubbing 
their  eyes  aii^ainst  it  in  order  that  th^sy  n^ight  be 
cured  of  ophthalmia*"— /cf em,  p.  143. 

F.  W.  Read. 

Wine  is  the  Early  CnmsTiAN  Church 
(^^^  S.  vii.  4)." Will  Mr.  Axon  kindly  supple- 
ment his  note  by  telling  ma  what  be  means 
by  **  earli/  Acts  "  1  Custom. 

**  RoKER  "  0^  S,  \ai.  28}  -^To  "  roke  about " 
i^  a  common  expreasion  in  Sussex  for  search- 
ing for  anything,  or  for  tprning  ovar  an 
accumulation  of  any  aort  of  objects.  Thus  a 
curiosity  dealer— a  good  fiiend  of  mine— of  ten 
Hays  w^hen  1  visit  his  establishment,  **  Well, 
I  'ni  busy  now  ;  I  '11  leave  you  to  roke  about. ^' 

E,  E.  Street, 

Chicheater. 

The  word  is  extremely  common.  For  more 
than  fifty  years,  and  to  the  present  day,  I 
hav«  heard  said  and  say,  '*  Roke  out  the  fire," 

Ituke  the  firebars,"  **I  want  to  roke  out  my 


pipe,"  **Can*t  YOU  roke  out  the  rat  with  ygtir 
stick  1 "  <fcc.  The  word  it*  obviously  the  same 
as  to  Take.  It  was  used  in  the  sense  of  the 
editorial  note  in  my  school  many  years  ag 

H.  P. 

Wyvill  Baronetcy  (9^  S.  vi.  489).— The 
baronetcy  of  Wyvill  ip^not  coimdet^  ftTL^xutiX^ 


T 


iwhde^  are  considered  slow,  ifc  is  aapposed !  but  dormant.    On  the  de&ib.  q^  "i\j&itioa^'^^> 


136 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      r»*  s.  vil  fkb.  le,  1901. 


the  leventh  baronGt,  in  1774,  the  title 
would  fall  to  the  isAue  of  Darcy  Wyvill, 
th©  brother  of  the  fifth  baronet,  as  follows  : 
1,  William  ;  2,  Edward  ;  3,  Hale.  William 
settled  in  America^  and  Burke  aaya  that  hi^ 
descend  an  t8»  if  not  barred  by  alienage,  being 
American  subjeeta,  are  entitled  to  the  title. 
Edward  had  a  non  Clirintopher,  who,  accord- 
ing to  Burke,  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
the  sixth  baronet,  and  inherited  the  Burton 
Constable  property,  but  Burke  gives  no  par- 
ticulars respecting  his  birth,  4c.  Foster's 
'York  shire  Pedigree* 'does  not  endorse  Burke's 
opinion  respecting  the  husband  of  Elizabeth 
wyvill  l>eing  the  son  of  Edward  Wyvill, 
which  doubt  would  require  clearing  up  before 
it  can  be  said  their  i^ue  can  claim  tne  title. 
If  the  first  are  barred  out  and  the  second 
have  no  claim ^  the  title  falU  to  the  igsue  of 
Hale»  whose  son  Luke  died  in  1747.  , 

John  Radcliffk.     I 

Eastbe  Maoiant  (9^^  S.  vi.  508 ;  vii.  34J. 
—  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  "herb 
pudding,^'  in  which  Easter  magtaot  ts  an 
important  ingredient,  formed  one  of  the 
maigre  dishes  in  Lent  or  Holy  Week.  It 
would  be  eminently  wholesome,  as  it  is  com- 
posed of  Easter  ledges  [?J,  young  nettles,  and 
almost  any  young  green  to  be  found  at  that 
fteason,  such  as  oandelion  leaves,  sorrel,  wild 
spinach,  primrose  leaves^  ladies'  mautle,  J^c., 
in  minute  quantities  all  chopped  t^igether, 
mixed  with  a  pint  or  so  of  real  groaU  (rice  is 
now  frequently  aubatituted),  tied  in  a  cloth, 
and  boiled  some  hours.  When  served  a  raw 
egg  is  well  incorporated  with  the  mixture. 
I  nave  never  eaten  it  in  the  south  of 
England,  but  in  Paris  something  tasting 
like  it  may  be  met  with.  The  leaf  of 
the  Easter  magiant  is  not  unlike  that  of  the 
dock,  the  stems  being  pink  when  drawn 
from  the  ground,  and  the  flower  is  also  pink. 
It  is  usually  found  on  moist  ground,  and 
springs  up  in  March  or  April.  In  his  descrip- 
tion of  Westmorland  ('Beauties  of  England 
and  Wales  ^)  Hodgson  speaks  of  the  plant 
for  which  Mr.  Curwen  inquires  as  '''the 
Alpine  bistortf  Easter-ment-gian/'     M.  N, 

The  'E.D.D.^  makes  a  suggestion  which 
aeems  plausible  Doubtless  Mr.  Curwen 
can  see  a  copy  of  that  work.  If  not,  I  hope 
he  will  give  the  directors  of  the  nearest 
public  library  no  rest  till  they  buy  one. 

O,  O.  H. 

A  QcAiHT  Custom  (»""  S.  vii.  49),— At  Sir 
Charles  Orandison  s  wedding 

''  IF&  frere  called  to  dinner.    It  wttA  &  sumptuoui 
pne.    Mr*  SeJby  wms  verj  orderlyi  u|H>n  the  whole  t 


But  he  remembered,  he  eaid,  th&t  when  Ae  wu 
married  fand  he  called  upon  his  Dame  to  oonfirm  it) 
he  was  ohliged  to  watt  on  his  Bride,  aod  the  Com- 
paDy ;  and   his  insisted  upon  \U  ^hftt  ^ir  Charles 

should.     vNo,  no,   no,'  every  one  aald But  Sir 

Charlea,  with  an  air  of  gaiety  tbat  infinitely  be- 
came him,  took  a  napkin  from  the  butler...... 8ir 

Charles  was  the  modes  teat  servitor  that  ever  waited 
at  table...... Then  going  to  Mr.  Selby:  '  Why  don't 

you  bid  me  rsaume  the  nspkin,  sir?  '  No,  no  ;  we 
see  what  you  can  do }  yonr  conformity  ia  enongb  for 
me.  You  may  now  sit  down  when  yon  please.  You 
make  the  waiters  look  awkward.'  He  took  his 
eeat,  thanked  Mr,  Selhy  for  having  renrinded  him 
of  hi^  duty,  a»  he  called  it,  and  was  all  HimHelf>  the 
most  graceful  and  obli|jiDg  of  men,'*—'  The  Hiitory 
of  Sir  Charles  Urandison*  (Dublin  reprint,  1753, 
voL  vi.  pp.  33S-9}. 

The  cust-om  muat  have  been  allowed  to 
drop  by  Sir  Charles*a  time,  or  he  would  never 
have  waited  to  be  "reminded,"  being  far  boo 
near  perfection  for  that.  Mr,  Selby  would 
have  been  niarrie<i  doubtless,  about  the 
beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

BouLDEK  Stonic-^  (9^'^  S.  vii.  27).— Though 
I  cannot  answer  J.  R.*8  query,  I  may  stale 
for  his  information  (which  may  a^isist  nim  In 
his  inquiries)  that  I  have  myself  seen  two 
very  in  teres  ting  examples  of  these  stonea. 
One  waa  at  Wink  field,  near  Windsor,  on  the 
margin  of  a  lane  nearly  oppcMite  to  the 
surgery,  where  then,  forty  years  ago,  liv^ 
my  old  friend  Dr.  O.  Wani.  He  was  a  very 
good  geologist,  and  informed  me  that  it  was 
undouotadly  of  glacial  origin,  and  of  the 
'*puddingstone"  or  **  congkimerate "  order, 
Tne  other  was  at  Streatley-on-Thames,  Omon, 
and  Uy  on  the  edge  of  the  road  (near  the 
mill)  which  led  from  the  bridfje  into  the 
village.  Both  stones  were  of  nimilar  appear- 
ance externally,  roughly  speaking,  nearly 
circular  in  form  and  (writing  from  memory) 
about  one  foot  aix  inches  or  two  feet  in 
diameter.  Dr.  Ward  assured  me^  with  regard 
to  the  Winkfield  stone,  that  there  was  no 
natural  iitone  deposit  or  stratum  of  that 
order  within  eighty  or  a  hundred  miles  of 
the  place,  io  that  its  position  there  was  a 
mystery,  except  on  the  theory  of  glacial 
action.  Eijwabb  P,  Wolfeestaw. 

There  are  various  local  tales  relative  to 
these  isolated  stones  found  up  and  down  the 
country.  Tho^e  in  a  field  near  Marsden,  a 
village  in  Bed  ford  shire^  are  known  as  the 
I>evir!$  Jump.  The  J  stand  a  long  way  apart> 
and  the  story  goes  that  Lucifer,  making  a 
hurried  escape  from  the  locality,  went  off 
with  a  tremendous  hop,  skip,  and  a  jump. 
Further,  the  exact  spots  where  Belial's  clovea 
feet  touched  ipother  earth  on  that  particular 


9*  &  vii  Feb.  16. 1901.J       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


187 


occ&sioo  ha^e  ever  aince  been  indieated  by 
the  bouldera  in  qtiestioD,  This»  of  course, 
TDust  h&ve  been  pnor  to  hk  Satan tc  majesty's 
last  visit  to  the  northern  fringe  of  Dartmoor. 
It  18  a  portion  of  every  Devonshire  person's 
creed  that  it  was  thereabouts,  or^  to  be  exact 
as  regards  locality,  "at  North  Lew,  the  Devil 
died  of  cold,^*  and  was  duly  buried  beneath 
itii  old  viliaee  cross.  Hakry  Hemb. 

Fair  Pkrk,  Exeter. 

Most  of  the  atones  referred  to  by  your  cor- 
respondent J.  R.  are  boundary  cros^ea  and 
stones  between  the  counties  of  York  and 
Lancaster.  The  boundary  line  in  this  locality 
is  curiously  sinuous*  Answers  to  several  of 
his  questions  are  given  on  Rennet's  map  of 
Lancashire,  date  1 829.  If  your  correspondent 
happens  to  live  in  this  locality,  I  could  show 
him  other  maps  giving  much  curious  infor- 
mation on  the  subject.  Hen  by  Tayloe. 
BirkluidA,  Eoathport. 

Is  there  any  known  limit  to  the  power  of 
glacier  action  in  depositing  boulders,  as  to 
their  size  or  weight  I  One  speculates.  Were 
the  monoliths  at  Carnac  so  accumulated  for 
sub'^uent  adjustment  in  alignments?  So 
with  the  tremendousearth-fast  atones  at  Ave- 
bur3%  thu£  treating  Stonehengeaa  more  recent. 
It  appears  that  one  section  there  has  lately 
falkn  ;  what  will  be  the  amount  of  force 
required  to  repla<je  it  1  A.  Hall. 

'"In  the  swim  "{9*^  S.  vii.  29).— This  phrase 
1%  one  fears,  bad  English,  in  so  far  as  it  has 
inquired  a  saup^on  of  vulgarity  which  in  the 
hit  place  perhaps  it  did  not  posse4as,  since 
iti&tnought  to  have  originated  from  aiiglens 
lifiiig  in  luck  when  they  find  a  swim  or 
**ichool"  of  ^ah*  Thus  it  has  come  to  mean 
faiin^  in  the  popular  current^  either  in 
opinion,  speculation,  or  fashion— dam«  le 
■lOBBflffl^tl,  in  the  vogue  with  others-  It  is 
pmble  that  the  phrase  was  sugg€.sted  to 
Mglers  by  the  Eastern  metaphor,  '*  To  swim 
ui  golden  lard^*'  meaning  to  be  prosperous  : 
''midj  gentle  sir,  when  you  do  come  to  swim 
M>  gaiden  lard  "  (B.  Jonson,  *  The  Fox,'  L  i.). 
**  Cotton  tree,  who  knowa  nearly  everytKjdy  in 
tuCftwitn  of  European  society. -....informs  him 
MJ^i  Lucy  Annerley  is  the  daughter  of  Sir 
Jootji  Stevens"  (A  C.  Gunter,  *  Mr.  Potter 
rf  Texas,'  book  iii.  xiv.). 

J.  HoLDis  MacMiceael. 

Wbubledon  Park  Roa4. 

Webster  gives  it  as  colloquial,  and  says  the 
meaning  is  **  to  be  in  a  favoured  position  j 
to  be  associated  with  others  in  active  affairs," 
The  *  Imperial  Dictionary'  also  classes  the 
phrase  in  the  mme  way,  and  describee  "  tbej 


swim "  as  "the  current  of  social  or  business 
events ;  the  tide  of  aifaira  ;  the  circle  of 
those  who  know  what  is  going  on-"  The 
'  Dictionary  of  Phrase  and  Fable '  gives  the 
origin  as  fi-om  an  angler's  phrase,  and  says, 
"  A  lot  of  fish  gathered  together  is  called  a 
swimf  and  when  an  angler  can  pitch  his 
hook  in  such  a  place  he  is  said  to  be  *  in 
a  good  swim/  "  Arthur  May  all* 

Beasdshaw  or  Bearde-shawe  (9*'=  S.  vii. 
48).— Ralph  Parsons  Beardshaw  was  for  many 
vears  in  practice  as  a  surgeon  at  36,  Wood- 
nause  Lane,  Leeds.  He  became  a  member  of 
the  Hoyal  College  of  Surgeons  of  England 
and  licentiate  of  the  Society  of  Apothecaries 
of  London  in  1840.  In  1S28  there  were  six 
families  of  Beardshaw  resident  in  Sheffield. 
These  were  George,  a  publican  ;  J,  &  Son, 
saw  manufacturers  and  general  merchants  ; 
John,  fork  manufacturer  ;  Jonah,  fork  manu- 
facturer ;  William,  stag  and  horn  bone  scale 
cutter ;  and  William  6i  Son,  table  -  knife 
manufacturers.  In  1641  there  were  but  four 
families  of  the  name— namely,  J.  &  Son  and 
William  afore  mentioned,  and  George,  knife 
manufacturer,  and  William,  publican. 

Ghas,  F.  Fobbhaw,  LL.D. 

Bradford. 

School  -  Tbacharh  ih  Kent,  1578-1619 
(9^*^  S,  vii,  3).— In  the  *  Calendar  of  State 
Papers  '  there  is  a  letter  from  the  Lieutenant 
of  Sandgate  Castle,  dated  26  February,  1623, 
complaining  that  Richard  Harris,  the  under- 
porter,  keeps  scliolara  in  the  castle,  and 
refuses  to  produce  his  authority  for  so  doing. 

R.  J.  Fykmore. 

Sandgate. 

Corpse  on  Shifboabd  (9^'^  8.  vi.  246,  313 
374,  437,  492 ;  vii.  75).— Your  correspondents 
are  so  far  right  that  I  cannot  claim  this 
passage  of  Virgil  as  an  instance  of  '*  corpse 
on  shipboard";  but  I  think  it  is  to  some 
extent  a  testimony  to  the  existence  of  the 
same  superstition.  For  we  must  abide  by 
Virgil's  words.  First,  the  cause  of  pollution 
was  the  funus,  which  all  explain  as  the 
presence  of  the  dead  body  —  dead,  not 
''un buried."  Burial  would  not  affect  death. 
Sec^mdly,  the  dead  bofly  polluted  the  whole 
fleet,  and  not  merely  the  persons  concerned, 
whether  on  sea  or  shore*  It  cannot  be 
suppii^ed  that  everybody  in  the  fleet,  and 
Dooody  else,  was  responsible  for  the  burial. 
Me.  Yakdley  seems  to  have  overlooked  his 
own  previous  reply.  W.  C.  B. 

**  Bijou  "as  a  Chuistian  Nai^lb^^^  S,  n\v 
48J.— Possibly  the  uae  ol  ikm  Sxi^^^^vA  \s».^ 


138 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9^  s.  vii.  feb.  le.  1901. 


be  traced  back  to  the  preposterous  spectacular 
play  *  Babil  and  Bijou,' produced  in  London 
about  1870.  E.  Rimbault  Dibdin. 

Definition  of  Gratitude  (9^^  S.  vii.  89). 
— The  Rev.  James  Wood,  in  his  *  Dictionary 
of  Quotations,'  attributes  "  Gratitude  is  with 
most  people  only  a  strong  desire  for  greater 
benefits  to  come  "  to  La  Roche. 

Everard  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  &c. 

A  New  EngUnh  Dl'^tionartf  on  HUtorircil  Principles' 
Edited  by  Dr.  .Jjiniea  A.  H.  Murray. —Vol.  IV- 
F  and  G.     By  Henry  Bradley,  M.A.     (Oxford. 
Clarendon  Prcrss.) 
In  returning,  accortling  to  ]»romi8e,  to  the  fourth 
volume  of  the  great  (li(.'tioriary— which  is  due  to  the 
patient  and  ])ersistent  eflbrt  and  the  unparalleled 
erudition  of  Dr.   Murray,  Mr.   IJradley,  and  their 
collaborators,  an<l  to  tlio  loyalty  and  munificence 
of  a  noble  university,  which   lias  gone  some  way 
towards  urii)i)ling  temporarily   its  own   resources 
in    order    to    execute    a    national    enterprise — we 
aim  T)rincipally  at  recording  progress  and  dwelling 
afresn    upon   claims    on   recognition.      The   space 
we  can   spare  to  notice  new  works  is  obviously 
and     avowedly    insignificant.       So    far    as    that 
limitation     permits     and     our     own    philological 
knowledge  extends,  we  have  drawn   attention   to 
the  appearance  and  contents  of  successive  parts, 
including  the  parts  comprised  in  the  present  volume. 
Were   wo  ever    so    disposed  —  which  our  readers 
know  is  far  from   being  the  case— to  insist  upon 
the  8U])posed  omniscience  of  the  reviewer,  there 
would  be  something  like  indecency  in  pitting  our 
own  acquirements  or  knowledge  against  the  col- 
lective judgment  of  the  beat  English  scholars.     Our 
functions  have,  consequently,  been  those  rather  of 
the  taster  than  of  the  censor.     Such  they  remain. 
With  the  appearance  of  the  fourth   volume,  and 
the   knowledge   that   the   fifth  will  almost  imme- 
diately   be    given    to    the  world,    the    work    has 
made  great   and    recognizable   advance.      By   the 
close  of  the  present    year    half    will,    it    may  be 
hoped  and  supposed,  be  in  the  hands  of  the  sub- 
scribers.    By  this  time,  then,  surely  the  dictionary 
should  be  known  and  generally  accessible.     It  is 
with  a  feeling  akin  to  dismay  that  we  find  corre- 
spondents who  ignore  its  existence  or  insist  upon 
the  impossibility  of  obtaining  access  to  it.     With 
something  more   than   dismay  do  we  sec  a  groat 
newspaper  undertaking  to  commend  and  circulate 
a  dictionary  of  foreign  (if  kindred)  growth,  which 
is    indeed  a   most    respectable,  creditable,  useful, 
and   interesting  work,  but  no  more  like  our  own 
dictionary  **  than  I"— we  may  not  now  say  *' we"— 
**to  Hercules."     When  first  the  huge  labour  was 
begun,   and  one    part   slowly  succeeded    another, 
there    was    excuse    for    seeking   a    stopgap,    and, 
while    waiting    the    best,    putting    uj)    with    the 
good.      We  owned  to  feeling  for  a  while  despair 
of  Beeing  so  much  of  the  work  in  type  as  would 


period  is   now  long   past.      Not   one  day  passes 
on    which    we    do    not    refer    once    or    oftener 
to  the  i)ortion   now  in   our  possession,   and  it  is 
with   ineffable  content  that  we  see  that  portion 
continually  enlarged.     No  longer  are  we  able  to 
satisfy    ourselves    with    the    meagre    information 
accorded  in  the  dictionaries  it  is  now  sought  to 
popularize.     Not  far  off  are   the    days    when    we 
had  to  content   ourselves  with  the  dictionary  of 
Richardson,  which,  imperfect  and  ill  arran^^d  as  it 
was,  was  an  immense  advance  upon  anything  that 
had  gone  before.     Now  in  stately  row  stand  on  our 
shelves  all  the  recently   i)ubli8hed    works    which 
private  industry  and  energy  have  supplied.     Very 
creditable  are  these,  and  none  will  grudge— we  least 
of  all— that  due  recognition  and  recompense  should 
be  awarded  to  all.    Having  once,  however,  consulted 
the  new  dictionary,  we  nnd  it  merely  tantalizing 
to  turn  to  others.    From  the  particulars  supplied 
in  j)refatory  notes  we  have  given  statistics  of  the 
differences  between  this  and  previous  dictionaries 
as  regards  the  number  of  words  used  in  each  and 
that  of  the  illustrative  quotations.     At  a  risk  of 
re])etition  we  state  that  in  the  letter  G  we  advance 
from  1,312  words  and  3,783  quotations  in  Johnson  to 
15.542  words  and    63,061  quotations    in    the    new 
dictionary.   These  figures  give,  of  course,  but  a  faint 
idea  of  what  is  the  real  gain  to  the  student.    For 
the  first  time  we  now  have  the  genuine  history  of 
the  word,  in  its  first  appearance  in  the  langua^ 
its  growth,  and  its  disappearance  if  it  have  dis- 
api>eared.     It  would  be  invidious  to  make  com- 
parisons,   and    we    have    no    wish    whatever    to 
deT)reciate  the  works  to  which  some  are  in  the 
haoit  of  trusting.      We  do  but  bear  testimony  to 
the  value  of  the  book  before  us,  on  which  we  are 
now    accustomed    to    rely.      We    open    the   book 
absolutely  haphazard,  and  stumble  on  the  substan- 
tive "ghost."    We  find  first  the  various  forms  it 
has  assumed  in  the  process  of  development,  the 
derivation  from  the  West  German  languages,  the 
cognate   forms,    the    explanation,    the     historical 
record,  and  the  fourteen  principal  meanings  assigned 
it,  including,  of  course,  the  recent  and  much  dis- 
cussed word,  a  "sculptor's  ghost."     In   the  form 
"  gnst"  we  find  it  employed  in  Old  English  or  Anglo- 
Saxon  as  early  as  the  ninth  century,  and  in  what 
may  perhaps  be  called  familiar  use  in  the  eleventh. 
How   many  quotaticms  are  given  in  the  four  and 
a  half  columns  devoted  to  it  we  have  not  time  to 
count.   They  include, of  course,  Shakespeare's  "That 
affable,   familiar  ghost,   Which   nightly  ^ulls  him 
with  intelligence.'    Turning  to  any  other  dictionary, 
\vc  find  in  place  of  this  full  and  flowing  stream  of 
information  a  small  rill,  and  with  such  we  are  no 
longer  to  be  contented.     We  therefore  i)rotest  in 
the  name  of  scholarship  against  the  attemi)t  in  in- 
fluential quarters  to  substitute  another— any  other- 
work  for  this.    Littre  in  France  is  in  the  way  of  being 
supplant-ed.    A  century  and  mor*^  must  i>as8  before 
any  similar  fate  can  attend  our  English  dictionary. 
It  is  scarcely  too  much,  indeed,  to  say   that  any 
future  work,  when  that  is  needed,  will  but  follow 
the  lines  of  this.     Some  little  trouble  is  involved 
in  mastering  the  system,  so  as  to  render  easy  the 
task  of  reference ;  labour  is,  however,  well  sj)ent 
in  the  effort,  and  the  remuneration  is  princely.    We 
have  already  said  that  every  centre  of  population 
should  be  ]>rovided  with  the  work.    It  seems  worth 
while,    nn^reover,   to   insist  upon  the   exi)ediency 
of    individual    subscription.      By    the    system   « 


render  it  of  practical  utility  to  ourselves.    That  \  moi\tVv\^  v^^^^^^ts   now  eatfkblisUed  the  expense 


9-'S.vilpbb.i6.i90i.)        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


139 


is  trivial  to  those  who  are  able  to  afford  any  books 
whatever.  Those  who  have  once  known  the  advan- 
tages attending  possession  and  consultation  will  be 
little  disposed  to  abandon  either. 

An  English  Miscdlany.    Presented  to  Dr.  Fumivall 
in  Honour  of  his  Seventy-fifth  Birthday.  (Oxford, 
Clarendon  Press.) 
Proceedings  in  honour  of  Dr.  Furnivall,  the  well- 
known  F.  J.  F.  of  our  columns,  have  been  in  pro- 
gress since  12  July,  1899,  and  h&ve  resulted  in  a 
tribute  to  that  eminent  scholar  as  novel  in  this 
country  as  it  is  gratifying.    No  English  writer  has 
stronger  claims  upon  recognition  such  as  is  now 
affbroed;  none  has  worked  with  more  unstinted 
energy,  with  more  disinterested  motive,  more  self- 
denying  zeal,  and.  let  it  be  added,  with  more  con- 
spicuous success.    We  have  to  go  back  to  the  period 
of  the  Renaissance,  to  the  time  when  learning  was 
a  passion,  to  find  an  instance  of  a  devotion  to 
letters  such  as  Dr.  Furnivall  has  shown.    In  recog- 
nition of  his   services.    Profs.    Ker,    Napier,   and 
Skeat,  representing  English    studies    in    London, 
Oxford,    and   Cambridge,    began   a  movement   in 
which,  from  the  first,  America  and  Germany  took 
an  active  share,  and  towards  which  French,  Dutch, 
and  Scandinavian  scholarship  has  also  contributed. 
The  offering  comprises  a  portrait  of  Dr.  Furnivall, 
DOW  in  preparation,  the  presentation  of  a  boat, 
and  other  things,  of  which  the  present  volume  is 
the  most  striking.     This  is  somewhat  more  than 
an  album  anUcorum ;  it  is  what  is  called  in  Ger- 
many a  Ftstachrift  in  Dr.  Furnivall's  honour,  to 
which  scholars  have  been  ipvited  t<o  contribute. 
Most  handsomely  have  they  responded  to  the  call. 
So  far  as  our  knowledge  of  such  things  extends, 
there  are  two  volumes  in  English  literature  which, 
though  different  in  nature  and  intention,  approxi- 
mate in  some  respects  to  this.    The  first  is  *  Jon- 
I0DU8  Virbius ;   or,   the  Memory  of   Ben  Jonson 
rerived   by  the  Friends   of   the  Muses,'  a  work 
edited  by  Dr.  Bryan  Duppa,  Bishop  of  Winchester, 
and  published  in  1638,  a  few  months  after  Jonson's 
death.    It  consists  entirely  of  elegiacal  poems  in 
WtoQT  of  Jonson  by  Lords  Falkland  and  Buck- 
Hunt,  Sir  John  Beaumont,  Henry  King,  Thomas 
Miy,  William  Habington  (the  author  of  ^Castara'), 
Edmund  Waller,  James  Howell  (of  the  *  Familiar 
Letters'),  John  Cleveland,  Jasper  Mayne,  Owen 
Felth&in,  and  very  many  others,  some  of  no  less 
repDtation.    A  similar  tribute  was  paid  the  famous 
^Bchess  of  Newcastle  in  **  Letters  and  Poems  in 
Hoooor  of  the  Incomparable  Princess  Margaret, 
l^tchess  of  Newcastle.    Written  by  several  Per- 
IjOBBof  Honour  and  Learning.  In  the  Savoy,  1676." 
This  seems  to  have  originated  with  the   Senate 
^  the  University  of  Cambridge.     Writers  in  it 
jocladed  Jasper  Mayne  (who,  it  seems,  wrote  in 
Joth  oonipilations),  George  Etherege,  Henry  More, 
Thomas  Hobbes,  Jno.  Glanville,  Thomas  Shadwell, 
wop  Pearson,  and  the  like. 

From  these  works  the  present  volume  differs  in 
"Ong  written  while  the  recipient  of  homage  is 
u^e  and  well,  and  in  not  being  confined  to  verses 
io  his  praise.  Such,  naturally,  appear.  Prof.  Skeat, 
{0 a  pretended  extract  from  an  old  MS.,  imitates 
mimoroasly,  and  applies  to  Dr.  Furnivall,  a  well 
nown  pasnge  in  Chaucer.  Prof.  Saintsbury  and 
[be  Rev.  Scopford  A.  Brooke  send  also  verses. 
mt  of  the  ooDtributions  deal,  however,  seriously 
vith  matten  of  literary  or  philolosical  interest. 
•eoannieroui  and  to  short  an,  for  the  most  part, 


these,  that  to  describe  them  would  be  but  to  give 
a  catalogue  raiaomU  of  the  contents  of  the  book. 
A  large  number  of  the  articles  deal  with  dramatic 
subjects.  Mr.  Sidney  Lee  sends  a  valuable  paper 
on  *  Shakespeare  and  the  Elizabethan  Playgoer,'  Mr. 
W.  A.  Crai^ie  writes  on  *  The  Gos])el  of  Nicodemus' 
and  the  *\ork  Mystery  Plays,'  Mr.  Pierce  Butler 
on  *  The  Origin  of  the  Liturgical  Drama.'  Herr 
Ewald  Fliigel  on  'Udall's  Dialogues  and  Inter- 
ludes,' M.  Jusserand  on  *  Pageants  and  Scaffolds 
Hye,'  Mr.  Arthur  F.  Leach  on  *  Some  English  Plays 
and  Players,'  Mr.  M.  W.  MacCallum  on  'The 
Authorship  of  the  Early  **  Hamlet/"  and  Mr.  G.  C» 
Moore  Smith  on  *  "  King  John"  and  '* The  Trouble- 
some Raigne."'  Prof.  Herford  sends  a  scene  from 
his  translation  of  Ibsen's  *  Love's  Comedy,'  Mr. 
Henry  Bradlev  writes  on  *  Some  Prehistoric  River 
Names,"  Mr.  J.  Earle  on  'The  Place  of  English  in 
Education,'  Dr.  Garnett  on  'The  Romance  of  the 
Lily,'  Mr.  Gollancz  on  'The  Quatrefoil  of  Love,* 
Prof.  Ker  on  *  Panurge's  English,'  Prof.  Napier  on 
'  The  Franks  Casket'  and  other  subjects,  M.  Gaston 
Paris  on  '  Aniadas  et  Idoine,'  Prof.  York  Powell  on 
*  Beowulf,'  Mr.  W.  H.  Stevenson  on  *  English  in 
English  Schools,'  Prof.  Skeat  on  *  Andreas'  and 
'  Fata  Apostolorum,'  Mr.  Paget  Toynbee  on  '  Dante,' 
and  Mr.  H.  Sweet  on  'Shelley's  "  Alastor.' 
We  have  given  some  only  of  the  names,  leaving 
very  many  distinguished  writers  unmentioned. 
The  mere  list  quoted  shows,  however,  how  hope- 
less would  be,  in  the  space  at  our  disposal,  the 
attcmj)t  to  supply  any  criticism  or  comment  upon 
articles  every  one  of  which  challenges  serious  con- 
sideration. They  constitute  "chips"  from  some  of 
the  finest  literary  workshops  in  two  continents, 
and  they  are  a  monument  to  Dr.  Furnivall  the 
most  gratifying  and  honourable  that  a  worker  such 
as  he  can  well  receive. 

ArtH  of  fhe.  Privy  Council  of  EnglaiuL    New  Series. 

Vol.  XXL   A.D.   1591.     Edit'ed  by  John   Roche 

Dasent,  C.B.  (Stationery  Office.) 
The  contents  of  the  present  volume,  like  those  of 
its  ])redeces8or8j  are  taken  from  the  MS.  known  in 
the  Council  Office  collection  as  Elizabeth,  vol.  ix., 
and  cover  the  time  between  25  March  and  30  Seyj- 
tember,  1591.  The  event  of  most  importance  with 
which  the  volume  deals  consists  of  the  dispatch  to 
France  of  two  expeditions  intended  to  assist 
Henrjr  IV.  in  his  combat  with  the  League.  Few 
historical  periods  are  more  familiar  than  this  to  the 
student.  These  expeditions,  respectively  under  the 
conduct  of  Sir  John  Norris  ana  Lord  Essex,  were 

Srincipally  drawn  from  the  forces  in  the  Low 
buntries.  Their  dispatch  furnishes  Mr.  Dasent 
with  the  ojmortunity,  of  which  he  avails  himself, 
to  compare  the  Netherlands  as  a  source  of  supply  of 
troo^is  in  the  sixteenth  century  with  India  at  the  end 
of  the  nineteenth  century.  Very  edifying  subjects 
of  study  for  the  Englishman  of  to-day  are  furnished 
in  the  manner  of  raising  troops  for  service  abroad 
and  in  the  contemplation  of  the  rapacity  of  our 
officers  and  the  difficulties  that  beset  the  private 
soldier  in  his  efforts  to  secure  his  pay.  The  con- 
ditions of  jjayment  were,  indeed,  such  as  to  facilitate 
and  encourage  dishonesty  on  the  part  of  the  cap- 
tains. Another  matter  of  high  interest  consists  in 
the  abortive  attempt  to  capture  the  Spanish  ijlate 
fleet.  There  is,  of  course,  much  troubfe  v{\\,Vv  \^«vi- 
conformists.  Much  is  \\eard  ol  \.Vielfe«wT^\et'^  v40\ 
grounded,  of  invasion,  and  atrVtt  otdcr*  «bT^  \gLNw\ 
/  to  Sir  Frauncea  Brack,  Sir  3  ohn  OWbett » wi^.  ox3a«» 


140 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,      [u*  s.  vii.  feb.  le.  1901. 


to  guard  againat  farther  desoenU  of  the  Spaniardi, 
Among  the  duties  assigned  our  sea  captams  was 
that  of  preventing  the  importation  of  French 
wme<a,  apoken  of  ojcam  aa  Rochel  wine.  The  pre- 
cinut  oF  the  Bla:;k  Friara  is  uaid  to  be  **  EioiaoTn  to 
her  Majesty's  subjects,  on  accoimt  of  the  "great 
heapes  of  soil  and  filth  laid  there,  which  in  hot 
weather  in  very  dangeroua  to  breed  infection." 
Leave  under  certain  realriction^  is  given  to  flar- 
man  Buckhold,  a  i^oldatnith.  to  erect  there  an 
edifice*  A  noteworthy  coincidence  ia  that  William 
Hacket  is  tortured  to  make  him  confess  his  crimes, 

and  that ^  Udall  is  condemned  as  guilty  of  felony. 

Thorn  aa  Uacket  was  the  publisher  of  tiie  '  Ralph 
Hoistiir  Doiater'of  Nicholas  Udall,  thiit  rarciit  of 
bcMiks.  There  ia  juat  a  posaibility  that  the  intimacy 
between  the  fatbena  was  oontifmed  in  the  children. 
Among  the  misceUaneoua  contents  is  a  romantic 
abduction  in  Wales. 

The  Ldtters  0/  Cicero.     Translated  by  Evelyn  S. 

Shuckburgb,  M.A.  4  vols,  (Bell  &  Sons  J 
Tux  latent  addition  to  '*  Bohn'a  Libraries ''  — in 
every  way  worthy  of  the  companionship  into  which 
it  is  thruat—ia  a  complete  translation  of  Cicero's 
letters,  compriaing  the  whole  eitant  correapood- 
encBi  arranged  in  chronological  order.  So  early  as 
1561  some  of  the  epiatlea  of  Cicero  were  translated 
into  English,  Since  theo  there  have  been  seen  the 
weU* known  renderings  of  William  Melmoth  and 
Dr*  William  Heberden  and  the  selection  by  Mr. 
Jeans.  None  of  tbeae  i3»  however,  absolutely  com- 
plete, the  Brutua  kttera  having  been  brought  to  light 
dnce  the  time  of  Heberden,  and  the  ]>resent  will 
henceforward  be  reg&rded  aa  the  authoritative  edi. 
tion.  E^ch  volume  is  ushered  in  by  an  introduction 
explamiug  the  historical  conditions  existing  at  the 
time  wheu  the  letters  were  written,  and  com* 
muuicatitig  such  particulars  as  are  known  concsern- 
ing  Cicero^  correspondents.  We  have  not  to  dwell 
afresh  upon  the  character  of  the  lottera^  important 
for  the  light  they  cast  upon  history  at  the  most 
dramatic  and  important  period  in  Roman  annals, 
and  profoundly  intoresting  for  the  revelation  of 
character  which  they  furnish,  nor  have  we  to 
itid^  again  the  |veraonality  of  a  man  who,  though 
he  inspires  confiicting  sentiments,  ia  never  regarded 
with  ludifierence.  Mr.  Shuckburgh  apologizes  for 
not  giving  a  rendering  into  French  of  the  passages 
of  Greek  with  which  Cicero  was  accustomed  to 
interlard  his  lett-era  to  Atticua.  An  apology  ia 
surely  unnecessary «  for  the  plan  ia  uureaaooable  and 
inept.  It  may  justly  be  pleailed  in  defence  of  this 
habit  of  quoting  Greek,  that  to  At  tic  us,  who  lived 
many  years  in  Athens,  Greek  was  practically  a 
mother  tongue,  and  it  is  pmseible  that  the  passagea 
Gioero  quot*«  mav  be  from  the  writings  of  Atticus 
himMH^  Afiart.  from  their  inherent  importance, 
the  letters  must  be  studied  by  all  intereated  in 
Renaissance  literature.  Their  influence  uix>ii  the 
eptstolaEy  style  of  the  humanists  ia  abundantly 
evident    The  translation  is  admirably  executed. 

JTke  Hisiory  0/  EaHy  Italian  LUercUure  to  the  DtcUh 

of  Dante.    Translated  from  the  German  of  Adolf 

Gaspary  by  Herman  Oelsner,  M.A.   (Bell  &  Sons.) 

W*  have  here  yet  another  important  addition  to 

**3ohn*&  Standard    Library"  m  a  translation    of 

part  of  the  opening  volume    of    flerr   Gaspary *a 

Bdmir&hle  history  of  early  Italian  literature.    Now 

tn^t  3  cli^e  kuowl^de  of  Dant«  has  become  an 

JiOportABt  pAtt  of  a  literary  ©qnipmeat,  it  ii  ysn- 


bable  that  the  works  of  the  predecesaors  of  that 
great  writer  will  receive  the  attention  hitherto 
denied  them  in  this  country.  Some  familiarity 
with  the  early  Italian  poets  ia,  indeed,  indis- 
pensable to  all  who  seek  to  follow  the  renaissanc* 
of  It; tiers.  It  may  furnish  some  encouragement  to 
the  atudy  to  aay  that  the  Italian  language  of  the 
thirteenth  and  fourteenth  centuries  otters  no  such 
difficulties  a^  beaet  the  Engliah  and  French  of  the 
same  epoch.  VVhat  will  specially  commend  the 
volume  to  a  lar^e  claaa  of  readers  ia  the  fact  that 
nearly  half  of  it  is  occupied  with  the  study  of 
Dante.  This  portion  forma  an  ei cello ot  introdac- 
tion  to  a  knowledge  of  the  *  Commedia,'  though 
rather,  |>erhap&,  to  its  plan  and  eiecution  than  10 
ita  poetif^l  merit*  The  volume  contains  the  author^s 
latest  bibliographical  and  critical  notes,  ISS7-90. 
In  behalf  of  it  It  is  claimed  that,  though  a  portion 
only  of  a  larger  work,  it  is  complete  in  itself.  A 
tranalatiou  of  the  remainder  of  the  work  is,  it  !• 
pleasant  to  learn,  in  contemplation. 


Fhiuoloqy  has  suffered  a  serious  loss  by  the 
death  of  Dr.  Fitzedward  Hall,  under  the  signature 
F.  H.  our  fregiient  contributor.  He  was  bom  in  the 
State  of  Kew  York,  and  educated  at  Harvard.  In  tb« 
eonrae  of  a  wandering  and  singularly  adcenturous 
life,  which  iocluded  au  months  impriaoimient  with 
a  small  garrison  in  Saugor  during  the  Indian  Mutiny, 
he  acquired  an  ejcemiilary  knowledge  of  Sanskrit 
and  Persian.  Of  the  former  language  he  was  pro- 
fessor at  Government  College.  Ben  area,  and  after- 
wards at  King's  College,  L<mdon.  He  also  became 
librarian  at  the  India  Office.  The  degree  of  D.CL. 
was  conferred  upon  him  on  7  July,  IwO*  For  thirty 
years  he  has  lived  in  retiremeut  among  his  booka^ 
rendering  inestimable  service  to  philology  generally 
and  to  the  *  New  English  Dictionary  ^  in  particular. 


We  must  eoM  sptcinl  eUiention  to  the  foUowmff 
nolicM : — 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  nam» 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub* 
lication,  but  as  a  guarant'ee  of  good  faith. 

We  cannot  undertake  to  answer  tjueriea  pri^'Stely  • 
To  secure  insertion  of  €omiimnkmtions  corra^ 
spondents  must  observe  the  foiiuwiag  rules,  L^^ 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  aeparat.^ 
sUp  of  najjer,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  aa<J 
such  address  oa  he  wishes  to  apjkear.  When  anj?w&  ir- 
ing  ciueries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  prerioxj» 
entries  in  the  t>aper,  contributors  are  requested   t4> 

Eut  in  jiaren theses,   immediately  aiter  the  exB^c^ 
eading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages    to 
which    they    refer.     Correspond  en  te    who   repeats 
queries  are   requested    to    head   the    second  com* 
munication  *^  Duplicate.*' 

Inn  £9.— Please  aend  lisune  and  addreaa.  LotC^ 
awaits  you. 

NOTICE, 

Editorial  Coram unicationa  should  be  addresaed  i» 
**  The  Editor  of  *  Notea  and  Queries ' "— AdverUia- 
mentaand  BuHtneas  Letters  to  "The  Pubiishef'— 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  EC 

We  b^  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  r^tora 
,  comm\a\\Qa.t\Q\vft  which^  for  any  reason,  we  do  noi 
\  ptmx  V  ^^^  ^  ^^>^  "c^^  "Ri^  c*^\euiJkQ  ii<^  exception. 


•»8.viLFra.i6.i90i.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

Crown  8to,  pp.  620,  oloth,  Persian  morocco  back,  top  edge  gilt,  5s. 

CLASSICAL  AND  FOREIGN  QUOTATIONS, 

Law  Terms  and  Maxims,  FroverbSi  Mottoes,  Phrases  and  Expressions 
in  French,  German,  Greek,  Italian,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  Fortugruese, 

RTITH    TBAN8LATI0NS,  BEFERENCES,  EXPLANATORY    NOTES  and   INDEXES. 

By  WM.  FRANCIS  HENRY  KING,  M.A.,  Ch.  Ch.,  Oxford. 


London:   J.   WHITAKER   &   SONS,    12,    Warwick   Lane,   RC. 

WHITAEER'S     PEERAGE. 

A  COMPLETE   PEEHAGE,   BABONETA&E,   KNIGHTAGE   AND 

COMFANIONAGE. 

WMtaker's  Peerage  contaiDs  everythiDg  nsually  sought  for  in  a  work  of  the  kind,  with  many  particulars 

not  to  be  found  elsewhere. 

ENLARGED    AND    IMPROVED. 

FRIGE   TWO   SHILLINGS   AND   SIXPENCE. 

Or  fall  royal  blae  roan,  gilt  edges,  4s.  6d.  net. 


WHITAEER'S    ALMANACK   FOR    1901. 

This  has  been  again  enlarged  by  sixteen  pages,  and  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  information 
'"Btaioi  the  Members  of  the  New  Parliament,  the  newly  constiiuted  London  borough  Councils,  and  the 
"^Uodon  School  Board,  also  a  variety  of  other  interesting  Articles  on  subjects  of  Qeneral  Interest. 

Crown  8?o,  paper  covers,  Is. ;  or,  with  Appendix,  half  bound,  2s.  6gU 


Undon:  J.  WHITAKER  &  SONS,  12,  Warwick  LiWift,  ^.^. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [••  a  vil  pkb.  le.  i90l 

OXFORD    UNIVERSITY    PEESS. 
An  ENGLISH  MISCELLANY  presented  to  DR.  FURNIVALL 

in  HONOUR  of  his  SEVENTY-FIFTH  BIRTHDAY.  ContainiDg  Contributions  from  Fifty 
Scholars.  With  Portrait  of  Dr.  Furnivall  and  10  Plates.  Edited  by  Profs.  W.  P.  KBR,  A.  8. 
NAPIBR,  and  W.  W.  8KEAT.     Demy  8vo,  cloth  extra,  gilt  top,  21#. 

List  of  Contrilmtori.—'iieMn.  Brooke,  Beecblng,  Bradley,  Brandl,  Bright,  Brown,  Bulbriqg,  Butler,  Cralgie,  Barle, 
Blnenkel,  Elton,  Fliigel,  FOrster,  Garnett,  Oollancz,  Gammere,  Hart,  Hem  pi,  Henneman,  Herford^Holthauten,  JuMerand, 
Ker,  Kluge,  Eoeppel,  Leach.  Lee,  Liddell.  Littlehales,  Logeman,  MacCallum.  McCormick,  Mather,  Jan.,  Matthews,  Mead, 
Moore  Smith.  Morris,  Morsbach,  Napier,  Neilson,  Paris,  York  Powell,  Priebscb,  Salntsbury,  Skeat,  Stevenson,  Sweet, 
Toynbee.  Ward,  and  Wtilker. 

CELTIC    FOLK-LORE:   WELSH    and   MANX.     By  J.  Rhys, 

M.  A.  D.Ltitt.,  Principal  of  Jesus  College,  Oxford.     2  vols.  8vo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  2U. 

PREVIOUSLY  PUBLISHED. 

STUDIES  in  the  ARTHURIAN  LEGEND.    By  the  same  Author. 

Svo,  cloth,  12«.  6d, 

MARLOWE'S  TRAGICAL  HISTORY  of  Dr.   FAUSTUS,  and 

GREENE'S  HONOURABLE  HISTORY  of  FRIAR  BACON  and  FRIAR  BUNOAY.  Edited  bj 
A.  W.  WARD,  Litt.D.     Fourth  Edition,  Revised  and  Enlarged.     Crown  Svo,  cloth,  6«.  6^. 


STUDIES    in    EUROPEAN    LITERATURE.     The    Taylorian 

Lectures,  1889-1899.  Delivered  by  S.  MALLAKMfi,  W.  PATER,  W.  P.  KBR,  H.  BROWN, 
A.  MOREL-FATIO,  E.  DOWDEN,  T.  W.  ROLLESTON,  W.  M.  ROSSBTTf,  P.  BOURGET, 
C.  H.  HERFORD,  and  H.  BUTLER  CLARKE.    Crown  Svo,  buckram,  7s.  6d. 


BAGHDAD  DURING  the  ABBASID  CALIPHATE.     From  Con- 

temporary  Arabic  and  Persian  Sources.    By  G.  LE  STRANGE.    Svo,  buckram,  gilt   top,   with 
S  Plans  (and  Keys),  16<.  net. 

**  It  is  not  easy  to  give  an  adequate  idea  of  the  extreme  difficulty  of  the  work  which  Mr.  Le  Strange  has  acoompUahed  ^ 
no  one,  indeed,  uuacqutiuted  wltb  Arabic  and  Persian  chronicles  can  conceive  thn  Innumerable  obstacltrs  to  sucoaia.    It  i» 
enough  to  say  that  success  has  been  achieved  with  a  completeness  that  is  amazing,  and  the  unlearned  may  be  asaurecS 
that  they  possess  in  this  volume  the  fullest  and  most  accurate  account  of  the  topography  of  Baghdad  that  a  severe  scrotin-^ 
of  all  known  Bastern  sources  can  supply.    Of  the  industry  and  critical  insight  displayed  by  the  author  it  is  diffieaX'i 
to  speak  without  becoming  fulsome."— i^peetator. 


ALSO    PUBLISHED    BY    HENRY    FROWDE. 

SPEECHES  of  OLIVER  CROMWELL,  1644-1658.    CoUect&a 

and  Edited  by  CHARLES  L.  STAINER,  M.A.,  Christ  Church,  Oxford.    Crown  8vo,  cloth»  ^, 


AT  the  GATES  of  SONG.     Sonnets  by  Lloyd  Mifflin.    With 

Portrait.     Small  4to,  cloth,  6t. 


COMPLETE   CATALOGUE  POST  FREE  ON  APPLICATION. 


London ;  HENRY  FROWDE,  Oxford  University  Press  Warehouse,  Amen  Corner,  B.C. 


JPHiited  b/  JOHN  RDYTkRD  FRANCIS.  Athenaeum  Prsss,  Brcam't  BoUdinffs.  Chanaery  I<«M,  B.C.  {  aad  Pablished  kf 
loss  C.  F&AMCIfl  at  Bream's  Baii4)Ats»QtMA«STi  \ja«,1lV^.— SolMur^cf ,  lUriMry  M,  18QL 


i 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 


LITERARY     MEN, 


FOB 

GENERAL 


READERS,     ETC. 


"Wlwn  foaad,  make  a  note  of."— Captain  Cuttlb. 


No.  165.  KS.]  Saturday,  Febbuaby  23,  1901.       \ 


Prios  FoimPKiroK. 

Xefittertd  a$  a  Ntwtpaptr. 


•yHB    CORONATION    of    QUEBN    VICTORIA. 

FOR  BALB  a  Oop7  of  tb«  TIMBA.  SeooBd  Vdltloa,  Jane  28.  1898. 
wlBted  !■  Gold,  eoatelBlng  a  Fall  Aeooant  of  tb«  Qaeea's  Coroaatlon 
m4  a  DwertpUoB  or  Um  Bioto  CMTtagea  of  Marsbol  Soalt  and  th« 
«cker  ▲mboMadort.— OfSsn  reqnestod  to  Z.,  ▲tbonvom  ProM.  Breom'i 
BaildlBCt.  Ckoaeenr  Looo.  B.C. 

PRIVATE  SECRETARYSHIP  to  a  OBNTLBM  AN 
WANTBD  1»T  a  BAARI8TBR,  ag«d  88  (B.A  OxoB.  with  Hononn). 
to  replOfM  a  almUar  appnlntB^nt  Jost  tennloatlnic.  BxeeUent  tosti- 
■oaial*  from  preoont  •mplojer.— ApplT  by  letter  to  C,  eare  of  Meesn. 
Hepwortli  *  Co  ,  Ifi,  Boath  Btroet,  RasbaiT.  B.C. 


B^ 


>OOK8,  M88.,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HoDOSON  & 

9  CO.,  Aoetloaoers  of  Books  aad  Llterair  Property  of  erery 
dwcrlpMoa.  Ubrortes  aad  smaller  OoUecttoas  earefally  Uatalogned 
tmA  promptly  oflbred  for  Bale  FmIiIbr  aad  HemoTal  arnuiged  for. 
TaloaOoae  made  for  Probate  or  uther  parpoees.  Aaction  Booms,  118, 
Ghaaeery  Laae  (Fleet  Street  ead).    Established  1800. 

liULLBTON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

^^  for  Searches  and  Aatbentle  Information  respeeting 

A&MO&IAL    BBA&IN08   AND   FAMILY    DE8CBNT8. 

with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artlstte  Prodaetloa  of 

HB&ALDIC  PAINTING  AND  BNO&AYINO. 

Beok-Plates,  Seals,  Dies,  Blgoet  Rings  Livery  Battens,  Crested  Note- 

Faper,  Ylsltlng  and  Inritatlon  Cards,  *e. 


8*.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Oreea  Park). 


^^^ 


J— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS    sup- 

fUed,  no  matter  oa  what  Sabjeet  Acknowledf ed  tbt  world  orer 
•ith*  mmx  vspert  B'loftfladers  «staat.  Pleue  lute  wsau.— BAKBR'S 
Btstt  BooMiop,  14-M,  John  Bright  Street.  Birmingham. 


a. 


AOBNCT  FOR  AMBKICAN  BOOKS. 

P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS,   PUBLISHERS  and 

BOOKSBLLBRS, 
«(9>sd  a.  West  nrd  Btrvet,  New  York,  and  84,  BBDFOKD  8TRBBT, 
LOBDON.  W.C,  desire  to  caU  the  atteaUon  of  the  KBADINO 
'OBUC 10  th«  ezeelleat  flaclliUss  presented  by  their  Branch  HoaM  in 
I<«4os  fbr  fllllair,  oa  the  most  tsToorable  ttrms,  orden  for  their 
on  STANDARD  PUBLICATIONS,  aad  for  ALL  AMBRICA.N 
Boots. 

Ostaiogmet  sent  oa  appileatioa. 


8  Tols.  tto,  lUostcated,  red  boekram,  gilt,  ptloe  80s. 

THE  LITTLE   BED  BOOK   OF 
BBISTOL. 

hWifcsd  nader  the  Aothorlty  of  the  CooneU  of  the  City  aad  Oovnty 


Bdited  by  PBANCIS  B.  BICKLEY, 
AsslMaBt  la  the  Departmeat  of  MSS.,  British  Mnsevm. 


J^  iapenaat  historical  register,  originated  in  18U.  oorers  a  period 
|^ilO;«tn,  end  reeords  the  liberties,  franchises,  aad  eonstitationB  of 
a*  isva,  amay  eeeloslasttcal  foaBdatioas.  aad  a  most  interesting  series 
wtndegsiida  The  Tolamee  throw  great  light  oa  the  habiu  aad  life 
^ns  emasas;  aad  to  the  etadeat  of  philology  maay  examples  are 
■■Nad  of  srehale  aad  obeolete  words. 

To  au  iatereeted  la  cariy  maaleipal  history  these  Tolnmes  ooataia 
•««h  oliBiirast  aad  iBvonaaee. 

MiM;  W.  dOFION  HBMMONB,  BT.  8TBPHBM  STBBBT. 
flOTEBBAM  *  00.  Bookedlm,  8TBAN1X 


NEW  VOIiUME  OF 
MB.  B.  B.  GABDINBB'S  '  COMMONWHAIiTH.' 


THE 


AND 


HISTOEY  OP 

COMMONWEALTH 

FHOTEGTOHATE, 

1649-1660. 

By  SAMUEL  RAW80N  GARDINER, 

M.A.  Hon.  D.O.L.  Oxford,  Litt.D.  Oambridge,  &c. 

Vol.  III.  1054-1656.    With  6  Maps.    8vo,  21«. 


LONGMANS,  GRBBN,  k  00., 
London,  New  York,  and  Bombay. 


XUST  FUBLISHBD,  royal  8to,  doth,  prioe  12«.  ed.  net. 

ILANDAFF   CHURCH   PLATE.     By  GEORGE 
A    RLBY  HALLIDAY,  F.R.I.B.A.,  Diocesan  Sorreyor  for  Uaadaff. 
WithSQIUastratloas 

Loadon:  BBMROSK  *  SONS,  Ltd..  23,  Old  Bsiley;  aad  Derby. 


O 


NE    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES.      Engraved 

on  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MORINO. 

Feap.  4(o.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Blocks  on  Haad>made 
Paper,  boond  La  artlstlo  boards,  18s.  M.  aet. 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Engraved  on  Copper. 

By  THOMAB  MORINO. 

Uaiform  with  the  abore     Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Plates 

on  Hand-made  Paper,  8&i.  net. 

THOMAS  MORINO. 
The  De  la  More  Press,  82,  High  Holbom.  London.  W  C. 


TBNTH  BDITION.  prioe  Two  ShUllngs. 

CELESTIAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    of 

Astronomy.    Ninth  Edition.    With  8  Plates.    By  W.  T.  LYNN, 
B.A.  F.R.A.S. 

"  Has,  we  are  tlad  to  see.  reached  a  ninth  edition,  which  enables  this 
exoellant  introdaetion  to  the  facts  of  astroaomy  to  be  brooght  np  to 


0 


SAMPSON  LOW  *  CO.,  St.  Dnastaa's  Hovse,  Fetter  Laae,  B.O. 


Seeoad  Bdltion,  price  Foorpenoe 

RIEF      LESSONS       in       ASTRONOMY. 

By  W.  T.  LYNN.  B.A   F.R.A.8. 
"  Conveys  a  great  deal  of  latormstlon  wlthoat  being  in  any  way  dry 
or  UHSbnical."— ir«n(MA  Jf •reurv 

Q.  8TUNBMAN.  89.  Warwick  Laae,  B.C. 


B 


T^HE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER- PAD. 
.     (Tbs  LBADBNUALL  PRB88.  Ltd  .  Pabllshers  and  Prlnten. 

90.  Leedenhmll  Street.  London,  B.O.) 
Contalos  balriess  paper,  over  whleb   the    pen   alips  with    perfect 
freedom.    Sixpencs  each.    &«.  per  dosea.  raled  er  phtln.    New  Pocket 
Slse,  8«.  per  dosea.  raled  or  plain. 

Avtiior*  shonid  aoie  that  The  Leadenhall  Press,  Ltd.,  eaaaot.  b% 
responsible  for  the  loss  ot  MM.  b^  f^ra  or  Q«a«tw\aa.  V>uVCi«nM^  t^wNM^ 
shoold  be  retaiaed. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»*  s.  vil  fkb.  23,  xooi. 


Every  SA  TURD  A  F,  of  any  £ook§eUer  or  Neumayent, 
Price  THREEPENCE. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OF 

ENGLISH   and  FOREIGN  LITERATURE 

and  the  DRAMA. 


The  A  TUBNjEUM  for  Fdnruary  16  eontaitu  Articles  on 

PKOF.  SA.INTSBURY'B  HISTORY  of  CRITICISM. 

HISTORY  and  TOPOGRAPHY  Of  BAGHDAD. 

A  BIBLICAL  BNCYCLOPfDIA. 

8BUANTIC8. 

RUMANIA  in  1800. 

Tlie  ORBBK  M88.  on  MOUNT  ATH08. 

MBW  NOVBLS :— In  the  Name  of  n  Woman ;  The  Pride  of  Race  iThe 
Heart  of  the  Andent  Wood ;  Rachel  Penrote.  Christian ;  A  Way- 
side Weed :  A  Wheel  of  Fire ;  Marked  with  a  Cipher. 

LOCAL  HISTORY. 

BIBLICAL  LITBRATURE. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB  -LIST  OF  NEW  HOOKS. 

DR.  FITZBDWARD  HALL;  ACCESSION  and  CORONATION; 
The  "CHARLES"  of  HORACE  WALPOLE'8  "TKIUM- 
VIRATB";  UNIVERSITY  EXTBNSION  ;  HUMAN  SACRIFICE; 
The  CANONIST  HUOUTIO ;  The  MILTON  BIBLK. 

Alto- 
literary  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE :— Recent  Puhiioations ;   SocieUe*;  Meeting!  Next  Week; 

Ooesip. 
FINE  ARTS  :— lUutrated  Books ;  The  New  Gallery  ;  Sales;  Gossip. 
MUSIC :— The  Week  ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-G08Slp.  

The  ATHBSjEUMfor  February  9  contatne  Articles  on 

The  SUCCESSORS  of  DRAKE. 

A  NEW  STUDY  of  KNOX. 

The  NEW  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY. 

JOURNALISM  DURING  the  FRENCH  REVOLUTION. 

HENRY  BARROW,  SEPARATIST. 

BARBOUR,  the  WALLACE,  and  the  BRUCE. 

SHORT  STORIES. 

ITALIAN  TOWNS. 

FRENCH  CLASSICS  and  TRANSLATIONS. 

EGYPTOLOGICAL  BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE— LIST  Of  NEW  BOOKS. 

MR.  J.  C.  JBAFFRB80N ;  The  DOVBS  at  PUOGMORK ;  The  ETY- 
MOLOGICAL PEDIOREB  of  HUCHOWN;  "NEW  NOVELS"; 
The  MILTON  BIBLE;  SALE. 

Alao— 

LITBRARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE :  -Chemical  Books ;  Societies ;  Meetings  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 

FINE  ARTS :— The  Painters  of  Florence ;  Monographs  on  Artists  ;  The 
Royal  Academy  ;  A  Century  of  Water  Coloan ;  Notes  from  Rome ; 
Gossip. 

MUSIC:— New  Mnsic;  Date  of  Chopin's  Birth;  Chopin  at  Stailbrd 
House;  Gossip i  Performances  Next  Week. 

DRAMA :— lliree  Plays  for  Puritans ;  The  Week ;  Gossip. 


OFKICK  for  ADVEKTISKMENTS. 
Bream's  BuildiDgs,  Chancery  Lane,  E.G. 


PubUshed  by  JOHN  C.  FRANCIS, 
BroAm  *a  BuildiDgs,  Chancery  Lane,  E.C. 


N 


EWSVENDORS'      BENEVOLENT 

PROVIDENT  INSTITUTION. 

Patron: 

The  Right  Hon.  the  EARL  of  ROSEBBRY,  K.O'. 


and 


The  Right  Hon.  LORD  OLBNE8K. 
Sir  W.  J.  RICHMOND  COTTON. 

Established  in  1888  for  granting  Pensions  and  Tempotnry  Asatsinee 
M>  principals  or  asslstanu  engaged  as  rendors  of  newspapers. 

A  Donauon  of  Ten  Guineas  constitntes  a  Vloe-Presiaent  and  glTss 
three  votes  for  life  at  all  elections.  Bach  dmiation  of  Three  Quinees 
fives  a  TOte  at  aU  elecUons  for  life.  Every  Annual  8abserio«r  is 
sntitled  to  one  vote  at  all  elaotions  la  respeot  of  each  Fire  Shilliags  so 
paid. 

Every  man  and  woman  throughout  the  United  Kingdom,  whetfier 
pubUsber,  wholesaler,  retailer,  employer  or  employed,  is  eaUtled  «• 
become  a  member  upon  payment  of  Five  Shillings  annaally  or  Three 
Guineas  for  Life,  provided  that  he  or  she  Is  engaged  in  n«  sale  of 
newspapers. 

The  Annuitants  now  number  thirty-aix,  the  men  reeelTlng  SSI.  and 
the  women  301.  per  annum  each.  These  Pensions,  now  amomntlag  to 
HOOI.  per  annum,  are  all  paid  from  the  dividends  arising  from  Che 
luTested  capital  of  the  Institution. 

The  "Royal  Victoria  Pension  Fund"  was  established  in  UB7.  U 
provides  pensions  of  XM.  a  year  each  for  four  widows  of  aewsveadort. 

The  "  Francis  Fund  "  provides  pensions  for  one  man  SU.  and  eoo 
iromanaM. 

Temporary  Relief  Is  given,  not  only  to  Members,  but  to  newvTemdora 
or  th«r  servants  who  may  be  recommended  for  assistanee  by  Member*. 
Inquiry  is  made  and  relief  awarded  In  aeoordanee  with  the  merits  of 
saoboase.  W.  WILKIE  JOMI 

Memorial  HaU  BuUdiags,  Farrlngdon  Street.  B.O. 


ATHEN^UM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  Athtnmtm.  NoU$  amd  OaisrM*,  Jte  .  is 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  all  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEWS. 
and    PERIODICAL    PRINTING.— U,   " 


Lane,  EC. 


Bream's   BnUdings,   Chaaeery 


STICEPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Gum  for  sticking  In  Scraps,  Joining  Papers,  Ac.  M.  and  1«.  with 
strong,  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy).  Send  two  stamps  to  cover  poeage 
(or  a  sample  Bottle,  including  Brush.  Factory.  Sugar  Loaf  Conn, 
Leadenhail  Street.  E.C.    Of  all  stattoners.    Stiekphast  Paste  sttcfcs. 


WM.      &      GEO.      LAW. 

COFFEE— SUGAR— TEA 

104,  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 


8CHWEPPE8  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  Intonatioul 
Exhibition.  Farts,  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda; 

THESE  WATER8  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Uthia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
Tbey  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continae  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

/  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER :—  ^ 
^SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,! 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  j 

SoHWBPPES,  LTD.,  LONDOV,  MaLYBRN, 

OLAflOOW,  UTEBPOOL.  BBUTOJU.  SYOaiJIY,  Md  KBLEaUIUII. 


«*s.vilfb».23,i90i.)       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Ul 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  FEBRUARY  MS,  1901, 


CONTENTS. -No.  165. 

HOTBS :  — Oavelage  and  Pillar  Taz«  141— Spenser,  *  Loorlne,' 
and  •Selimas,'  143-Pamilv  of  Sir  FrancU  Mitchell,  144- 
Plnts  of  Plays  -  Prohibition  of  Wine  among  Hebrews, 
145  —  Qreek  Pronunciation  —  *  Rule.  Britannia,'  148  — 
*'Caendo"=-*Oercando— Ohanges  in  Country  Life— Shake- 
speare and  Vondel,  147. 

QUBRIB3 :— ^hipt  of  War  on  Land,  147 -Source  of  Quota- 
tfoo  —  Butter  Family  —  **  Bougies  "  :  **  Bugsries  "  -  Sack 
and  Sugar-**  Belongs  with  "—verses  on  the  Irish  Famine 
—••  Jeber's  cooks  "  -Lay  Canon- J.  B.  Poster— J.  Poulis— 
F.  N.  Fortune— Source  of  Lines— Abraham  Blder,  148— 
Qaeeting  Beast  —  May-water  —  John  Parr  —  **  Four-and- 
rive  "  —  Visiting  Tiolcets  -  Oockade  of  House  of  Saxony 
—  Chisel  Marks  —  Sarson  Stones  —  Verses  on  the  late 
Queen— Battle  of  Seetabuldee—**  Rouen"  and  '*Suoce- 
danenm."  149— Author  of  Recitation  —  Malt  and  Hop 
Substitutes— King  and  Queen  Bqual -Public  Mourning. 
150. 

KBPLIBS  :— Ugo  Foaoolo  in  London,  160 -Unclaimed  Poem 
by  Ben  Jonson.  161— Qrierson  of  Dublin— Gtold  Florin- 
Date  Wanted,  163— Moon  Lore— Dr.  Creighton's  Funeral 
—Bright  or  *  Onntord  '—Serjeant  Hawkins— Old  London 
Taverns- Boca  Chica,  164— Portrait  of  Sir  J.  Tborold  — 
*N.  k  Q."  in  Fiction  — •*  Galluses  "—Braces  — Arundel: 
Walden— W  Beadle— Rose  and  Zorzi  Families— Oossage 
of  Spratton— Blankets,  166— Language  to  conceal  Thought 
—J.  M.  W.  Turner,  156— **To  palmer"— "Let  them  all 
come  "— Brasenose  College,  Oxford— **  Lanted  ale,"  157— 
Ralegh's  Signature— Flogging  at  the  Cart  Tail,  158. 
HOTBS  ON  BOOKS  :  -Rhys's  *  Celtic  Folk-lore  *  -  Bourl- 
not's '  Canada  under  British  Rule  '-Keller's  *  Madagascar' 
— *  Quarterly  Review '— *  Bdinburgh  Review '— *Man.' 
Hotices  to  Correspondents. 


GAVELAGE  AND  PILLAR  TAX. 
{Concluded  from  p,  82. ) 
Jacob  Grimm,  in  his  book  on  the  antiquities 
o!  German  law,*  quotes  a  document,  made  in 
the  year  889  and  confirmed  in  993,  relating 
I      to  the  decima  trihuti^ 

"quasde  partibos  orientalium  Francorum  ad  fiscum 
domlQicum  annuatim  persolvi  solebat,  qusB  secun- 
dam  ilioram  linguam  sltora  vel  osterstuopha  voean- 
uir." 

He  does  not  know  what  osterstvopka  means, 
hut  says  that  if  stauf,  a  stoup,  a  cup,  be 
meant,  we  ought  to  read  stoupm  instead  of 
t^impha.  He  thinks  that  the  word  refers  to 
J,  tax  paid  at  Easter.  As  regards  steora, 
^Qge  has  suggested  a  connexion  between 
toe  modern  German  Steur,  tax.  and  O.H.G. 
^^roy  a  post,  pillar ;  and  Huopha  in  oster- 
f^vop^  appears  to  have  the  same  derived 
meanins,  so  that,  to  put  the  combined  word 
into  an  English  form,  we  might  call  it  Easter- 
Jtoop,  ».«.,  Easter  tax  (or  taxes).  The  Late 
AAtin  ttopharius^  which  Du  Cange  quotes 
"om  an  old  glo8sary,t  appears  to  mean  a 


*  'Deutsche  Rechtaalterthiimer/  1854,  p.  298. 
Ute  LatiD  forms  of  stiura  are  sttura  ana  steyra 
(DoCangB). 

t  The  words  quoted  are,  "  Tributarius  Romanus 
«t  StqphMiui  nominator  qui  oensum  Kc^  Bolvit"  | 


man  who  was  taxed  by  the  stoops  or  posts 
of  his  house,  as  the  gabutarius  was  a  man 
who  was  taxed  by  the  gables  of  his  house. 

Not  only  do  Euglish  mediaeval  records  tell 
us  of  gafol  and  gcU>iUagivm^  but  on  the  Con- 
tinent we  meet  with  forcagtum,  which  also 
seems  to  mean  fork-tax.^  In  addition  to 
forccLgium,  Du  Cange  gives  forcha^iwia^ 
forciagium^  <fec.  He  says  that  forchagiwm,  ia 
a  tribute  exacted  from  every /itrcta,  or  house, 
and  that  it  means  the  same  as  /oagiwm^ 
hearth-tax.  He  also  mention s/orcta,  which, 
perhaps  mistakenly,  he  regards  as  a  tax 
extorted  by  violence ;  and  he  defines /orca^tca 
as  a  tribute  which,  in  his  opinion,  was  paid 
on  booths  {stationes)  at  fairs,  such  booths 
having  been  supported  by  "  forks."t 

That  peasants'  houses  were  supported  by 
"forks,"  even  in  classical  times,  may  be 
seen  from  passages  in  several  authors.  In 
particular  I  would  refer  to  the  following 
description  of  a  cottage  in  Seneca,  *Epist.,' 
90:— 

"  Furcse  utrinque  suapensse  fulciebant  oasam : 
spissatis  ramallDUR,  ac  fronde  congeata,  et  in 
proclive  disposita,  decursus  imbribus  quamvis 
magnis  erat.  Sub  his  tectis  habitavere  securi. 
Gulmus  liberos  tezit:  sub  marmore  atque  auro 
servitus  habitat." 

Here  we  have  a  small  cottajge  supported  by  a 
"  fork "  at  either  end,  and  apparently  con- 
sisting, like  an  ordinary  booth,  of  one  bay. 
Such  a  cottage  may  have  been  strange  to  the 
eyes  of  the  philosopher,  and  he  drew  from  it 
a  lesson  in  morals  by  comparing  the  slaves 
who  dwelt  beneath  marble  and  gold  to  the 
free  men  whose  bodies  were  sheltered  by  a 
roof  of  thatch  held  up  by  wooden  "  forks,  t 
If  in  our  days  it  seems  difficult  to  under- 


From  what  source  does  the  Late  Latin  stuiva^ 
tribute,  come?  And  what  is  the  origin  of  tho 
English  verb  to  stump  up,  to  pay  cash  ?  The  word 
"stoop"  is  common  enougn  in  the  Midland 
counties.  When  1  was  a  boy  there  was  an  inn 
m  Dronfield  called  "The  Blue  Stoops."  Posts  of 
wood,  painted  blue,  stood  in  front  of  the  principal 
entrance.    Wackemagel  has  stUpe,  staupe,  a  post. 

*  "Dedi  Majori-Monasterio decimas  omnium 

meorum    reddituum praetoi    talliam    meam    et 

Forcagium."  "  Forchctgtum,  Census  qui  a  singulis 
furciis  seu  domibus  exigitur,  idem  quod  Foagium " 
(Du  Can^). 

t  "Tnbutum,  ut  opinor,  quod  pro  statione  in 
nundinis,  quse  furcis  fulciebatur  habenda,  pensi- 
tabitur."  Cf.  "  Et  faciunt  in  nundinis  Sancti 
Cuthberti  singuli  ij  villani  unam  botham." — *Bol- 
don  Book'  (burtees  Soc),  p.  4.  "Boothage,"  of 
which  an  example  ia  given  in  the  *N.E.I).,*  may 
be  also  compared. 

X  I  quote  the  passage  in  Seneca  from  Facciolati's 
'  Lexicon '( English  edition,  1828),  9.  v.  casa^  and  do 
not  know  to  what  part  ol  iVi^  vjoxV^^  ox  \ft  n<V^ 
time,  it  refers. 


142 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9^  s.  vn.  Feb.  23. 1901. 


stand  that  men  should  have  been  taxed  by 
their  pillars  or  "forks,"  we  must  remember 
that  these  wooden  posts  were  the  most 
striking,  as  well  as  the  most  costly,  parts 
of  peasants'  houses,  the  walls  being  composed 
of  sticks  and  mud,  which  could  be  removed 
from  time  to  time,  like  a  worn-out  coat,  and 
renewed. 

I  am  tempted  to  suggest  that  the  Latin 
stips,  genitive  stipis,  a  contribution  in  small 
coin— a  word  which  is  only  found  in  the 
oblique  cases — may  be  connected  with  sttpeSf 
stipitisj  a  post.  It  is  a  curious  fact  that  the 
Late  Latin  stips  and  stipes  both  mean  a 
fork  or  gibbet.  For  the  former  word  Du 
Cange  quotes  a  document  of  the  year  027, 
and  for  the  latter  a  document  of  the  year 
863.  There  seems  to  be  an  unmistakable 
connexion  between  the  'RomvLfx  columnarium 
and  ostiarium  and  these  later  taxes.  More- 
over, it  is  at  least  possible  that  pillar  tax 
and  door  tax  are  older  than  the  time  of 
Cicero.  I  advance  the  suggestion  about  stips^ 
however,  with  hesitation,  because  there  seem 
to  be  philological  objections  to  it,  and  because 
the  opinion  of  an  ancient  writer  is  against  it. 

In  Smith's  *  Dictionary  of  Greek  Antiqui- 
ties '  it  is  said  that  columnarium,  mentioned 
by  Cicero,  "  was  probably  imposed  by  the  lex 
sumpitiana  of  Julius  Caesar,  and  was  intended 
to  check  the  passion  for  the  building  of 
palaces,  which  then  prevailed  at  Rome."  No 
authority^  however,  is  cited  in  support  of 
this  opinion,  nor  is  any  proof  given  that  the 
pillar  tax  mentioned  bv  Cicero  differed  in 
any  respect  from  the  columnarium  levied  by 
Metellus  Scipio  in  Syria,  in  b.c.  49-48. 

At  first  sight  gavelage  seems  to  have  been 
imposed  on  the  houses  of  the  Scarborough 
burgesses  without  regard  to  size.  But  it  is 
possible  that  only  a  selda*  or  booth  fronting 
the  street,  was  intended  to  be  taxed.  In  the 
borough  of  Whitby,  in  the  same  neighbour- 
hood, we  read  of  a  man  granting  an  annual 
rent  of  38.  out  of  the  selda  and  tne  solariv/ni 
(upper  room)  of  his  house  towards  the  street, 
with  power  to  distrain  on  the  whole  of  his 
house  (*'  per  totam  domum  meam  ")  in  case  the 
distraint  on  the  selda  and  solarium  were  not 
suificient.t  At  Pontefract  in  1258  there  were 
120  seldce.l    And  the  Hundred  Bolls  of  1279 

*  A.-S.  selde,  a  porch.  Cf.  wirUeradd  and  mmor- 
selde  (8weet).  The  mediieval  selda  usually  meant  a 
shop.  Cf.  also  the  Lucken  Booths  or  shops,  which 
formerly  stood  in  Edinburgh. 

t  **  In  selda  et  solario  domus  mejB  in  Hakelsougate 
in  Whiteby  versus  vicum."— *  Whitby  Chartulary' 
iAtkiuBon),  i.  20. 

t  *  Yorkahire  Inq.'  (Yorkshire   Arch.    Society, 
Record  tieriea),  i.  30.    For  seldce  in  Winchester 


show  that  there  were  many  seldce  in  Oxford, 
with  or  without  solaria.  iNow  if  these  seld(E 
were  mere  booths,  consisting  of  a  single  bay 
each,  one  can  understand  how  gavelage  would 
fall  on  them  with  equal  incidence.  Equality 
of  taxation  at  Scarborough  may  thus  imply 
equality  of  size  in  the  burgage  tenements,  but 
it  must  be  admitted  that  the  point  remains 
obscure. 

I  have  no  direct  evidence,  either  English 
or  continental,  showing  that  houses  were 
taxed  by  the  number  of  the  "  forks  "  or  posts 
which  tney  contained  ;  but  it  is  improbable 
that  such  a  cottage  as  the  one  escribed 
by  Seneca  would  bear  the  same  burden  of 
taxation  as  a  house  supported  by  many 
"  forks,*'  or  by  man^  columns,  either  in  town 
or  country.  In  ancient  Wales  we  have  proof 
that  houses  were  supported  by  rows  of 
^^gavaelSf  forks,  or  columns,"  ana  that  such 
houses  were  valued  by  the  number  of  gava^ls 
which  they  contained.*  S.  O.  Addy. 


EDMUND  SPENSER,  *  LOCRINE,*  AND 
^SELIMUS.* 
{GoiUinxi^l  from  p.  103.) 
"Battailous"  is  a  word  that  occurs  many 
times  in  Spenser,  and  the  phrase  '^  battailous 
array  "  is  used  by  that  poet  three  times  in 
the  first  three  books  of  *  The  Faerie  Queene,' 
I  will  quote  one  case  only,  and  cite  a  passage 
under  the  phrase  to  show  the  exact  meaning 
that  Spenser  attached  to  it  :— 
Glistring  in  armes  and  battailous  array. 

Book  11.  canto  vii.  stanza  xxxvii. 
Glistring  in  arines  and  warlike  ornament. 

Book  II.  canto  xi.  stanza  xxiv. 
Compare  :— 
To  toss  the  spear  in  battleous  array. 

*SeUmus,M.  158. 
Spenser    constantly    uses    "vermeil"   for 
"vermilion,"  and  the  passage  in  'Selimus' 
which  follows  suit  is  almost  an  exact  repe- 
tition of  a  line  of  '  The  Faerie  Queene '  :— 
How  oft  that  day  did  sad  Brunchildis  see 
The  green  shield  dyde  in  dolorous  vermelL 

Book  IL  canto  x.  stanza  xxiv. 
And  dye  my  shield  in  dolorous  vermeil. 

•  Selimus,'  1.  744. 
Even  such  a  common  word  as  "  gushing  " 
owes  its  presence  in  'Selimus'  to  Spenser  :— 
And  made  an  open  passage  for  the  gushing  flood. 
Book  I.  canto  ix.  stanza  xxxvi. 
Make  thou  a  passage  for  thy  gushing  flood. 

'  Selimus,'  1.  253. 
"Gyre"  has  a  peculiar  meaning  attached 

where  linendrapery  was  sold  see  Morgan's  'Eng- 
land under  the  Norman  Occupation,'  p.  160. 
*  tSeebohm's  *  English  Village  Community,'  p.  230. 


9*&viLFn.23,i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


143 


to  it»  and  it  is  a  word  that  occurs  but  rarely 

in  poets  of  Spenser  s  time  : — 

Ne  thenceforth  his  approved  skill,  to  ward 

Or  strike,  or  hurtle  rownd  in  warlike  gj/re^  &c. 

Book  II.  canto  v.  stanza  viii. 
*'To  hurtle  rownd  in   warlike  gyre"  is  to 
skirmish   wheeling  round  the  foe,  trying  to 
strike  him    with    advantage   (vide    Upton). 
Also  see  fiook  III.  canto  i.  stanza  xxiii. 

•*  Hurtle  "  and  "  gyre  "  are  used  in  the  same 
connexion  in  *  Selimus '  :— 

These  are  the  hands  which  Af^^a  once  did  use 
To  toss  the  spear,  and  in  a  warlike  Ryre 
To  hurtle  my  sharp  sword  about  my  head. 

*  Selimus,' 11. 1489-91. 

To  "come  hurtling  in"  means  to  come  in 
with  a  rush,  in  a  threatening  manner  : — 
Who,  all  enniR'd  with  smart  and  f rantick  yre. 
Came  hurtling  in  full  fiers,  and  forst  the  Knight 

retyre.  Book  I.  canto  viii.  stanza  xvii. 

Here  the  Polonian,  he  comes  hurtling  in 
Under  the  conduct  of  some  foreign  prince, 
To  fight  in  honour  of  his  crucifix  ! 

*  Selimus,'  11.  644-46. 
Tomb-black  :— 

To  decke  his  herce,  and  trap  his  tomb-black  steed. 
Book  II.  canto  viii.  stanza  xvi. 
And  who  are  these  covered  in  tomb-black  hearse  ? 

To  celebrate  his  tomb-black  mortuary. 

•  Selimus,'  U.  1265  and  2007. 
The  rare  word  "  tronked  "  occurs  twice  in 
Spenser's  first  three  books,  and  Todd  derives 
it  from  the  Latin  truncatus^  maimed  or 
mangled  (see  Spenser's  works,  *  Faerie 
Qneene,'  Book  XL  canto  v.  stanza  iv.,  Rout- 
ledge).  But  it  was  from  the  following  un- 
noted passage  that  the  author  of  ^  SelimuH ' 
adopted  his  word  : — 

Heemott  off  his  left  arme.  which  like  a  block 
pid  fftll  to  ground,  deprived  of  native  might ; 
Lup  strearoes  of  blood  out  of  the  truncked  stock 
Forth  rashed,  like  fresh-water  streame  from  riven 

rocKe.  Book  I.  canto  viii.  stanza  x. 

^^itness,  the  earth,  that  sucked  up  my  blood. 
Streaming  in  rivers  from  my  tronk^  arms  ! 

*  Selimus,'  11.  1484-85. 

Mr.  Daniel  has  called  my  attention  to  the 
^  that  in  the  following  passage  the  late 
Dr.  Grosart's   edition    of    'Selimus'    prints 

wray"  for  "warray,"  and  he  cites  as  his 
wthority  for  the  correction,  not  only  a  quota- 
tion made  from  the  play  by  Capell,  who  writes 

jarray,"    but    the   passage    from  Spenser 
^hich  I  will  adduce : — 
]^t  after  Ninus,  warlike  Belus'  son, 
jje  earth  with  unknown  armour  did  array. 
Then  first  the  sacred  name  of  King  begun. 

*  Selimus,'  11.  323-25. 
^t  tbem  long  time  before,  great  Nimrod  was. 
That  fint  the  world  with  sword  and  fire  warrayd ; 
And  after  him  old  Ninus,  &c. 

Book  L  canto  v.  atuazA  xlviiL 


Note  that  the  playwright  uses  sacred  in  the 
sense  of  cursed.  The  same  meaning  is  attached 
to  the  word  in  one  or  two  cases  in  Spenser. 

Now  for  a  few  parallel  passages  in  Spenser 
and  *  Selimus '  that  are  not  repeated  or  nearly 
related  to  passages  in  the  acknowledged 
work  of  Marlowe : — 

Now  hath  the  sunne  with  his  lamp-burning  light 
Walkt  round  about  the  world. 

Book  II.  canto  ix.  stanza  vii. 
Twice  fifteen  times  hath  fair  Latona's  son 
Walked  about  the  world  with  his  great  light. 

*  Selimus.' 11.  41-2. 
Deepe  written  in  my  heart  with  yron  pen. 

Book  I.  canto  viii.  stanza  xliv. 
Which  nature  hath  inscribed  with  golden  pen. 
Deep  in  the  hearts  of  honourable  men. 

*  Selimus,' 11.  218-19. 

As  when  a  wearie  traveiler,  that  straves 

By  muddy  shore  of  broad  seven-mouthed  Nile, 

Unweeting  of  the  perillous  wandring  wayes. 

Doth  meete  a  cruell  craf  tie  crocodile 

Which,  in  false  grief  hyding  his  harmefull  guile, 

Doth  weepe  full  sore^and  sheddeth  tender  tears,  &c. 

Book  I.  canto  v.  stanza  xviii. 
Even  as  the  great  E)m)tian  crocodile 
Wanting  his  prey,  with  artificial  tears 
And  feignM  plaints,  his  subtle  tongue  doth  file, 
'T  [sic]  entrap  the  silly  wandering  traveller,  &c. 
*Selimus,' 11.  448-55. 

And  make  his  carkas  as  the  outcast  dong. 

Book  II.  canto  viii.  stanza  x  xviii. 
Shall  make  thy  carcase  as  the  outcast  dung. 

*  Selimus,^  1.672. 
O  Thou,  most  auncient  grandmother  of  all. 

Which  wast  begot  in  Dsemogorgons  hall. 

Book  I.  canto  v.  stanza  xxii. 
Black  Demogorgon,  grandfather  of  Night, 
Send  out  thy  furies  from  thy  fiery  hall. 

*  Selimus;  11.  1319-20. 
O  hatefull  hellish  Snake  !  what  Furie  furst 
Brought  thee  from  baleful!  house  of  Proserpine,  &c. 

Book  III.  canto  xi.  stanza  i. 
O  hateful  hellish  snake  of  Tartary, 
That  feedest  on  the  soul  of  noblest  men,  &c. 

'Selimus,' 11.  1909-14. 
As  gentle  shepherd  in  sweet  eventide, 

A  clqud  of  cumbrous  gnattes  doe  him  molest,  &c 
Book  I.  canto  i.  stanza  xxiii. 
And  like  a  shepherd,  'mongst  a  swarm  of  gnats,  &c. 

*  Selimus,' IL  2477-78. 
As  he  had  traveild  many  a  sommers  day 
Through  boyling  sands  of  Arabic  and  lynde,  &c. 

Book  I.  canto  vi.  stanza  xxxv. 
Now  as  the  weary  wand'ring  traveller 
That  hath  his  steps  guided  through  many  lands. 
Through  boiling  soil  of  Africa  ana  Ind,  kc. 

*Selimus,' 11.  2523-25. 

Thus  far  I  have  proved  that  both  *Locrine' 
and  *Selinius' were  acquainted  with  Spenser's 
*  Ruines  of  Rome,'  that  both  copied  the  poem^ 
though  not  in  the  ^ame  mawiv^t^  ''\«cr«\a^ 
filching  from  Spenser  m  V5i^  moa^,  \»x^\aft«^ 


144 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9^  s.  vn.  feb.  23.  i«ol 


manner,  and  never  redeeming  its  faults  of 
plagiary  by  any  qualifying  touches  of  original 
treatment,  except  such  as  are  often  of  the 
moat  ridiculous  character.  The  author,  in- 
deed, does  not  stop  to  consider  whether  or 
not  Spenser's  descriptions  will  applv  to  things 
in  his  play,  but  steals  with  the  haste  of  a 
bungling  robber.  I  have  also  shown  that  'Seli- 
mus '  is  copied  in  *  Locrine '  in  the  same  bold 
fashion  as  Spenser  is,  and  that  Marlowe, 
whilst  taking  images  from  'The  Ruines  oi 
Rome/  agrees  with  '  Selimua,' and  diflTers  from 
'  Locrine,  in  his  phrasing.  Neither  will  it  be 
overlooked  that  I  have  not  been  able  to  show 
that '  Locrine '  was  under  any  obligation  for 
material  to  'The  Faerie  Queene.'  If  the  two 
plays  were  by  one  writer,  we  should  catch 
glimpses  of  Spenser's  great  poem  in  both  ; 
the  absence  of  such  material  in  'Locrine' 
renders  the  theory  of  a  common  authorship 
a  psychological  impossibility. 

I  turn  now  to  the  joint  relation  of  'Seli- 
mus '  and  Marlowe  with  Spenser. 

As  was  usual  at  that  time,  '  Selimus '  was 
printed  without  its  author's  name  being  men- 
tioned in  the  title-pa^e.  It  was  allowed  t^) 
remain  in  neglect  until  the  late  Dr.  Grosart 
took  it  in  hand,  and  included  it  amongst  the 
works  of  Greene  in  his  "Huth  Library," 
1881-6.  It  has  since  been  made  accessible  in 
Dent's  "  Temple  Dramatists,"  1898. 

Dr.  Grosart  saw  that  the  play  was  a  work 
of  uncommon  power ;  and  as  he  had  traced 
in  it  two  passages  that  are  quoted  in  '  Eng- 
land's Parnassus'  as  being  by  Greene,  he 
hastily  assumed  that  Greene  was  the  actual 
author  of  the  play.  Unfortunately  for  this 
conclusion  there  is  nothing  in  '  Selimus '  to 
suggest  Greene  :  and,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  its 
atheism,  its  bold  advocacy  of  the  doctrines  of 
Machiavelli,  its  style,  and  its  phrasing  are 
totally  dissimilar  to  anything  that  can  be 
found  in  that  writer's  known  work. 

Again,  the  editor  of  '  England's  Parnassus,' 
which  was  printed  in  1600,  and  consists  of 
quotations  from  English  literature  up  to  that 
year,  was  not  always  correct  in  his  assign- 
ments of  passages  that  he  quotes.  He  actually 
gives  to  Greene  three  passages  that  belong  to 
Spenser,  and  he  makes  similar  mistakes  in 
regard  to  other  authors.  Moreover,  it  must 
be  borne  in  mind  that  several  years  had 
elapsed  between  the  deaths  of  Greene  and 
Marlowe  and  the  publication  of  'England's 
Parnassus';  and  as  Marlowe  and  Greene  were 
friends  and  inseparables,  it  is  excusable  that 
the  author  of  the  anthology  should  attri- 
bute his  'Selimus'  quotations  to  Greene 
instead  of  to  Marlowe.  Of  course,  too,  the 
absence  of  the  aathor*s  name  from  the  title- 


page  is  a  circumstance  that  would  lend  itself 
to  such  an  error  of  attribution. 

Charles  Crawford. 
{To  he  C4mtinited.) 


THE  FAMILY  OF  SIR  FRANCIS  MITCHELL. 

I  SEE  in  an  old  volume  of  your  most 
interesting  paper  that  some  one  asks  about 
Sir  Francis  Mitohell,  his  ancestors  and 
descendants.  Sir  Francis  was  dis-knighted 
and  fined  for  malpractices  in  1621,  the 
House  of  Commons  having  revenged  itself 
on  him  because  it  could  not  reach  Bucking- 
ham and  the  King,  who  were  really  behind 
Mitohell  and  were  getting  the  chief  share  of 
profits  from  the  monopolies. 

There  were  two  sons  or  grandsons  of  John 
Mitohell,  of  Essex,  Francis  and  Lawrence. 
Francis  was  made  Clerk  of  the  Market  in 
May,  1603 ;  Lawrence  was  made  Bailiff  of 
the  Market  in  1608.  In  1612  Francis  Mitohell 
married  Cicely,  daughter  of  H.  Wentwortk 
Esq.,  of  Essex.  He  was  then  described  as  of 
They  don  Garnon,  Essex.  Mr.  Went  worth 
married  again,  and  his  wife,  by  will  dated 
1630,  leaves  money  to  "  Francis,  Philip,  and 
Cicely,  children  of  her  lato  daughter-in- 
law  Cicely,  wife  of  Francis  Mitohell,  Com- 
missioner." This  settles  the  names  of  the 
children  of  (Sir)  Francis.  In  'Inquisitions,' 
Essex,  1634,  Sir  Francis  is  shown  as  the 
brother  of  Lawrence  Mitohell,  who  is  his 
executor. 

The  writer  of  the  memoir  of  (Sir)  Francis 
has  mixed   him  up  with   quite  a  different 
Francis  Michell.    The  other  Francis  was  the 
son  of  Humf rev  Michell,   of    Old  Windsor, 
Berks,  and  of  Dorset,  M.P.  first  for  Poole 
and  tnen  for  Windsor,  Survej^or  of  Windsor* 
Castle,  1570  to  1598.     This  Francis  of  Old 
Windsor  became  secretary  to  Lord  Russell, 
the  great  Lord  Deputy  of  Ireland,  and  went> 
with   him    to    Irelancf  in   1594.    There   are 
constant  references  to  him  in  State  papers, 
and  he  was  subsequently  employed  on  diplo- 
matic missions  abroad   by   Lord  Salisbury. 
This  Francis  had  a  son,  entered  at  Gray's 
Inn  in  1613  as  "Humfrey,  son  and  heir  of 
Francis  Michell,  Esq.,  of  Old  Windsor"  (who 
had  entered  Gray's  Inn  himself  on  13  August 
1590).      Francis    married    the    daughter  ot 
Humfrey  Speccott,  of  Speccott,  Devon,  and 
his  son,  the  younger  Humfrey,  is  mentioned  in 
the  will  of  his  grandfather,  Humfrey  Michell 
M.P.  for  Windsor)  dated  1598.    The  direct 
descendants  of  Humfrey  of  the  Old  Windsor 
family  went  to  Ireland.     John   Michell,  of 
the  younger  branch  of    Humfrey's  family, 
waA  MP.  for  Windsor   in   the  eighteenth 


••8.vn.F«B.23.i90i.)       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


145 


century,  and  he  founded  the  Michell  scholar- 
ships of  Queen's  College,  Oxford,  and  left  the 
College  land  at  Old  Windsor,  which  it  now 
possess^. 

I  have  entered  fully  into  the  relations  of 
Francis  Michell  of  Old  Windsor,  for  there 
has  always  been  confusion  about  the  two 
men,  Francis  Mitchell  of  Essex  and  Francis 
Michell  of  Old  Windsor,  for  they  were  both 
much  before  the  public  at  the  same  period 
of  history,  and  it, is  therefore  necessary  to 
explain  who  their  brothers  and  sons  were, 
in  order  to  prove  their  individuality. 

With  regard  to  the  descendants  of  (Sir) 
Francis  I  believe  I  can  satisfy   your  corre- 
spondent.     In    1660    Francis    Mitchell,    of 
Kilkenny,  petitioned  about  certain  matters, 
and    I    find    that    Philip    Mitchell   died    in 
Dublin,   1687.      I    have   little   doubt    these 
gentlemen   were  the  sons  of  (Sir)  Francis. 
The  Rev.  Thomas  Mitchell,  of    Dublin,  in 
the  early  part  of  last  century  registered  a 
pedigree  with  Ulster  King-at-Arms  showing 
nis  descent  from  Francis  Mitchell,  of   Kil- 
mallock,  an  officer  in  the  army,  who,  about 
1700,  married  a  daughter  of  Col.  Holmes,  of 
Kilmallock.    The  Rev.  Thomas  Mitchell  did 
not  claim  any  arms.    I  believe  the  family  of 
this  eentleman  are  all  dead.    I  think  Francis 
Mitchell,  of  Kilmallock,  was  son  of  Francis 
of  Kilkenny,  who  was  son  of  (Sir)  Francis. 
In  Bnrke's  *  General  Armory '  there  is  this 
entry  of  arms  allowed  : — 

"Mitchell  (MouDt  Mitchell,  Leitrim)  allowed  by 
McCulloch,  Ulater  1760,  to  Patrick  Mitchell,  of 
Bordeaux,  in  the  Kingdom  of  France,  merchant, 
P^t- grandson  of  Lawrence  Mitchell,  Esq.,  of 
Fiugal,  CO.  Meath." 

It  appears  more  than  probable  that  this 
Lawrence  was  the  brother  of  (Sir)  Francis, 
for  all  the  Mitchells  left  Theydon  Garnon 
&nd  Essex  in  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  and  I  have  shown  gentlemen  of  the 
nme  name  then  appearing  in  Ireland.  It  is 
probable  that  all  the  descendants  of  (Sir) 
Francis  and  Lawrence  Mitchell  have  died 
out,  for  none  of  the  present  families  of 
Mitchells  I  have  been  able  to  trace  have 
the  characteristic  family  names,  which  were 
oontinaed  down  to  last  century  in  the 
families  1  have  mentioned.  Your  corre- 
spondent must  not  confuse  any  Michells  or 
Mitchells  who  bear  arms  with  the  descendants 
of  Sir  Francis  Mitchell,  for  that  gentle- 
nan  had  no  arms,  and  those  granted  by 
McCulloch,  Ulster,  to  Patrick  Mitchell,  of 
Bordeaux^  are  the  arms  of  the  Michells 
of  Old  Windsor  with  a  little  fancy  em- 
bellishment. Neither  Sir  Francis  nor  Law- 
nooe  llitcheU  was  in  an^  w&y  connoted 


with  the  Old  Windsor  family,  who  have  a 
coat  of  arms  of  three  leopards'  heads  erstsed, 
granted  to  Humfrey  Micnell,  of  Old  Windsor, 
in  1581,  in  substitution  of  the  ancient  arms 
of  his  family  (three  escallops)  borne  by  Sir 
John  Michell,  of  Yorkshire  and  Berkshire 
(1424),  his  immediate  ancestor.  S. 


Plots  of  Plays.— Playgoers  have  prover- 
bially short  memories,  and,  provided  they 
are  amused,  care  very  little  as  to  whether 
the  piece  presented  to  them  is  new  or  old. 
A  farce  entitled  *  Le  Coup  de  Fouet,'  by  MM. 
Hennequin  and  Duval,  has  been  recently 
produced  at  the  Nouveautes,  Paris,  in 
which  the  hero  Barisart,  in  order  to  conceal 
his  infidelities  from  his  wife,  invents  the 
legend  that  thei-e  is  a  gay  man  about  town 
exactly  like  him,  for  whom  he  is  con- 
tinually being  mistaken.  The  wife  turns  the 
tables  upon  ner  husband  by  aflFecting  to 
believe  this  legend,  and  recalls  to  his  mind 
endearments  and  caresses  bestowed  upon  her 
by  him  of  which  he  has  no  recollection.  The 
critics  have  acclaimed  this  idea  as  a  novelty, 
but  it  is  as  old  as  the  hills,  or,  to  be  more 
precise,  it  is  more  than  half  a  century  old. 
In  the  year  1847,  or  perhaps  earlier,  a 
piece  was  brought  out  in  Paris  by  MM. 
Anicet  Bourgeois  and  Eug^ne-Marin  liabiche, 
entitled  *  Deux  Gouttes  orEau,'  in  which  the 
same  idea  was  employed.  The  piece  was 
published  in  1847  in  the  "  Bibliotheque  Dra- 
matique,"  tome  xlv.,  and  was  translated  and 
adapted  for  the  English  stage  by  Hubert 
Lille,  and  was  first  performed  at  the  Hav- 
market  Theatre  on  30  June,  1854,  with  Mr. 
Buckstone  and  Mrs.  Fitzwilliam  in  the  prin- 
cipal characters.  The  dramatic  critic  of  the 
Athenaevm^  describing  the  piece,  identifies  it 
as  having  been  taken  trom  the  French 
comedy  'Deux  Gouttes  d'Eau,'  and  goes  on 
to  say,  "A  pleasure-loving  husband  makes 
his  wife  believe  there  is  another  Richmond 
in  the  field  of  Vauxhall  and  Cremorne  so 
like  himself  as  to  cause  serious  scandal" 
{AthenoBum,  8  July,  1854,  p.  852). 

Some  idea  may  be  formeld  how  old-fashioned 
the  piece  is  from  the  fact  that  the  hero  is 
described  as  wearing  a  brown  overcoat  or 
"  talma  "  (so  called  from  the  great  actor),  and 
another  character  is  taken  for  a  military  man 
on  account  of  his  spurs  and  his  "  muscovites," 
the  latter  being  his  side- whiskers.  If  the 
play  were  reproduced  it  would  require  a 
glossary.  John  Hebb. 

Prohibition  of  "  Heathen  "  Wine  among 

THE  Hebrews.—Iu  the  *  GVvtomcX^^  ol^^x^- 

J  ojeeV  edited   b^  Di.  Qa^V^x,  \^^^,  ^^  VS^x 


146 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [»*  s.  vil  Fn.  23. 1901. 


there  is  an  account  of  the  manner  in  which 
by  the  deep  counsel  of  Balaam  the  Israelites 
were  diminished.  This  was  a  method  by 
which  the  Hebrews  were  induced  to  visit 
a  camp  of  the  beautiful  women  of  Moab  and 
Midian.  by  whose  blandishments  they  were 
induced  to  become  idolaters.    We  read  :— 

"Before  her  was  placed  excellent  strong  wine. 
She  would  then  say  to  him,  *  Drink  this  cup  of  wine 
for  my  love,  and  I  will  present  thee  with  any 
precious  ornament  thou  mayest  wish.'  At  this 
time  the  wine  of  the  heathen  was  not  yet  a  pro- 
hibited thing." 

Of  the  prohibition  here  implied  there  ap- 
pears to  be  no  record  in  the  Scriptures. 
The  incident  may  be  a  traditional  version  of 
the  transaction  recorded  in  Numbers  xxiv. 
and  XXV.  William  E.  A.  Axon. 

Manchester. 

Greek  Pronunciation.— Much  has  been 
written  about  Erasmus's  pronunciation  of 
Greek.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  collocation 
of  Latin  and  Greek  words  in  the  colloquium 
•Echo' throws  some  light  upon  his  method 
of  pronouncing  both  languages.  I  have 
transcribed  all  the  Greek  words  which  serve 
as  the  echoes  of  the  Latin  words  preceding 
them. 

echo — €x«>.  onus— o  vovj. 

invisos — lo-ws.  ariolari — kdpoi, 

eruditionis— ovois.         byssinos — o-tvos. 
solos— oAws.  astrologi— Aoyoi.^ 

monachos— axos.  grammatici— ciic^. 

semideos— 8€os.  famelici — kvKoi, 

sacerdos— KcpSos.  Cicerone — ovc. 

episcopi— KOTTot.  Ciceronianus— avovs. 

It  would  seem  from  the  above  list  that 
Erasmus's  pronunciation  of  ancient  Greek 
must  have  resembled  the  modern  pronuncia- 
tion. The  tendency  to  iotacism  is  manifest 
in  the  riming  of  -ot  with  the  Latin  -i. 
Again,  the  practical  identification  of  the 
sound  represented  by  omicron  and  omega  is 
remarkable.  It  is  also  clear  that  Erasmus 
pronounced  the  Latin  c  before  a  vowel  as 
hard  :  thus  scLcerdos  rimes  with  iccpSos. 

Much  may  be  learnt  as  to  the  pronuncia- 
tion of  ancient  Greek  at  different  times 
from  inscriptions.  I  cite  a  few  instances 
taken  from  McClure's  *  Christian  Inscriptions/ 
which  probably  date  from  about  300  to  400 
A.D. ;  tne  last  is  from  Orelli. 

P  represents  the  Latin  v :  thus  'OKrapiWrf 
=  Octavilla  (De  Rossi,  No.  69). 

ov  is  used  to  express  Latin  short  u,  as 

^FtjfjLovki=Eoffmli ;    in  Lucretius    we    have 

durateus. 

Kir€  represents  /ceirai,  as  in  Mod.  Gk.    So 

€TeAi(60rj=:iT€\€t(a$ri^  fo tacism   of  ct  (Kircb- 


hoflF,  9541) :  thus,  too,  Si/TroccrTovs  represents 
dejyositus  (De  Rossi,  85),  and  oo-cicus^oo-iais 
(KirchhofF,  9524). 

#c  is  used  in  the  same  epitaph  to  represent 
Latin  c :  iraK€=pace, 

V  is  omitted  in  Kti>(rTavTii/o7roArTi<ro-a, 
Modern  Greek  shows  a  strong  tendency  to 
slur  over  v  in  unaccented  syllables. 

IIciicci'Tcii^s  (Orelli,  6724)  represents  Picen- 
tinse.  H.  A.  Strong. 

University  College,  Liverpool. 

*  Rule.  Britannla  ' :  its  Authorship.— I  do 
not  think  the  famous  question  of  the  author- 
ship of  '  Rule,  Britannia,*  has  been  referred 
to  in  '  N.  &  Q.'  since  the  appearance  (in  1895) 
of  M.  L^n  Morel's  *  James  Thomson,  sa  Vie 
et  ses  (Euvres,'  which,  according  to  Mr. 
Seccombe  in  the  account  of  the  poet  in  the 
'Dictionary  of  National  Biography,'  consti- 
tutes *'a  pattern  biography  both  in  respect 
to  exhaustive  research  and  sound  literary 
criticism.*'  It  is  certainly  an  indispensable 
work  to  all  admirers  of  Thomson,  and  should 
be  translated  into  English.  With  regard  to 
*  Rule,  Britannia,*  M.  Morel  admits  that  the 
question  of  its  authorship  between  Thomson 
and  Mallet  cannot  be  settled  on  external 
grounds,  but  points  out  that  the  internal 
evidence  is  decisive  in  favour  of  Thomson, 
from  the  number  of  passages  in  close  and 
even  verbal  accord  with  lines  from  his  other 
works.  Thus,  compare  the  first  strophe  with 
the  following  passage  from '  Liberty '  (part  iv- 
'  Britain,'  11.  460-2)  :— 

Since  first  the  ruflhin^  flood, 
Urged  bv  Almighty  Power,  this  lavour'd  Isle 
Turned  flashing  from  the  continent  aside ; 

and  these  lines  from  *  Britannia*  (191-4):— 

This 
The  native  power  for  which  you  were  designed 
Bv  fate,  when  fate  designed  the  firmest  state 
That  e'er  was  seated  on  the  subject  sea  ; 

and  1.  199  :— 

For  this  these  rocks  around  your  coast  were  thrown. 
Again,  in  *  Liberty  *  (*  Britain,*  11.  515-16)  we 
have :— 

0  happy  land ! 
Where  reigns  alone  this  justice  of  the  free ! 

the  resemblance  of  the  idea  in  which  to  that 
in  the  second  strophe  of  ^  Rule,  Britannia,' is 
obvious,  as  is  also  that  in  the  third  strophe 
about  the  oaks  to  the  following  in  *  Britan- 
nia *  (11.  201-2)  :— 

For  this  your  oaks,  peculiar  hardened,  shoot 
Strong  into  sturdy  growth. 

In  the  fifth  strophe  the  words 

And  every  shore  it  circles  thine, 
\  TeievtYn^  t/o    the   maritime   supremacy   of 


»*  s.  viL  Fn.  23. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


147 


Britaiii,  remind    us  at  once   of   a   line   in 
*  Summer '(431):- 

Hence  rules  the  circling  deep,  and  awea  the  world. 
The  well-known  refrain 

Britons  never  will  be  slaves 
<^rs  a  remarkable  analogy  to  a  line  in  the 
Castle  of  Indolence '  (ii.  303)  :— 

Those  wretched  men  who  will  be  slaves. 
And  the  eulogium  at  the  end,  on  the  match- 
teas  beauty  of  the  British  fair  and  the  manlv 
hearts  to  ^ard  them,  may  be  compared  with 
the  foUowmg  two  lines  in  *  Liberty  ^0  Britain,' 
473-4):— 

Such  the  fair  guardian  of  an  isle  that  boasts, 
l*rofiiae  as  vernal  blooras,  the  fairest  dames. 

Perhaps  it  may  be  of  interest  to  note  that 
M.  Morel,  whilst  admitting  that  'Liberty  '  is 
a  tar  inferior  poem  to  the  'Seasons,'  does  not 
regard  it  as  deserving  of  the  unsparing  con- 
oemnation  of  Dr.  Johnson,  who,  he  thinks 
there  is  reason  to  believe,  did  read  it  after 
all,  and  who  rightly  disapproves  of  Lyttel- 
tons  abridgment  as  unwarrantable. 

"Caendo''=Cercando— Looking  over  the 
oxi (A errata  at  the  end  of  Skeat's  'Chaucer,' 
1  find  the  following  :  "  For  caendo  read  cer- 
^ao.  This  emendation  suggested  by  Prof, 
aer  is  clearly  right.  But  ^caendo '  is  so 
«Pwt  in  the  Chaucer  Society's  copy."  I  would 
wbmitthat  "caendo"  is  correct.  The  word 
tt  recognized  by  the  dictionaries.  Petrocchi 
gv€8  it,  with  authorities,  in  the  parte  inferiore 
OT  his  *N6vo  Dizionario  Universale'  (1887), 
*J.a  jt  is  found  in  Davenport  and  Comelati's 
wition  of  Baretti  (1868)  as  a  verb  defective. 
1  do  not  see  very  well  how  "caendo"  can  be 
•  form  of  "oercando";  "endo"  can  scarcely 
come  out  of  "ando."  Further  investigation 
•wtns  necessary.  Akoine. 


temptation  to  which  the  newer  generation 
have  given  way.  By  a  "cheap  and  nasty" 
imitation  of  what  is  supposed  to  be  "  tne 
fashion,"  they  have  given  up  at  once  a  strong- 
hold of  self-respect  and  historic  and  be- 
coming picturesqueness. 

Another  noticeable  change  should  also  be 
recorded.  Ten  years  ago  unsophisticated 
and  spontaneous  out-of-door  dancing  still 
took  place  in  the  village  street  on  summer 
evenings.  It  was  unpremeditated  and  un- 
announced ;  a  tin  whistle,  a  tambourine,  or 
perhaps  a  concertina  supplied  the  music ; 
men  danced  with  their  wives,  girls  with  girls, 
boys  with  boys.  It  was  the  natural  expres- 
sion of  a  joyous  spirit,  finding  and  making 
its  own  relaxation  when  the  heavy  day's  work 
was  done.  Little  by  little  this  has  been 
given  up.  The  labourer  finds  no  delight  in 
his  work,  and  demands  that  a  course  of  enter- 
tainments with  an  up-to-date  programme 
should  be  provided  for  him  by  others.  The 
traditional  village  sports  and  games  are 
handed  down  no  longer.  A  drab  machine- 
made  uniformity  is  becoming  universal. 

W.  C.  B. 

Shakespeare  andVondel.— In 'The Taming 
of  the  Shrew,'  Induction,  scene  ii.,  the  words 
"  I  see,  I  hear,  I  speak  "  seem  almost  to  have 
been  imitated  in  J.  v.  Vondelen's  '  Palamedes ' 
(Amsteldam,  1625)  by  the  phrase  "Ick  hoor, 
the  tnird 


ick  denck,  ick  sie,"  in 
Darde  Handel.' 


scene  of '  De 

E.    S.  DODGSON. 


Changes  m  Coitntry  Life.    (See  7^»»  S.  ii. 

|66;  xi.  422 ;    8">    S.   ii.    264 ;    viii.    485.)— 

when  I  came  to  my  present  country  parish 

jD  .Worcestershire  ten  years  ago,  there  were 

"^ng  in  it  sir  or  seven  old  women,  not  all 

^dowji,  who  indoors  in  the  daytime  always 

^ore  old-fashioned  white  caps,  covering  the 

whole  head  and  fitting  tight  round  the  face, 

^th  a  frilled  edge.    One  or  two  of  these 

«P8  might  have  a  raised   point  or  peak  at 

we  back.    Of  these  ancient  village  dames 

only  one  survives.    I  chronicle  the  fact  here 

»^ase,  together   with    the   disuse   of   the 

Jockfrock,  it  marks  the  total  abandonment 

« t^  old  peculiar  provincial  costume.  I 

Advertuieiiient6.  tallymen,  and  the  parcel 

post  have  united  to  make  irresistible  the  I 


We  must  request  oorrespondents  desiring  infor- 
mation on  famuy  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct. 


Ships  of  War  on  Land.— In  a  small  work 

on  Swedenborg  ("Emanuel  Sweden borg 

by  the  Rev.  John  Hyde,  1878 ")  I  find  the 
following : — 

**In  1718^  Svedborg  [i.e.,  Swedenborg]  assisted 
CharleR  XII.  in  his  assault  on  Frederickshall,  a 
Norwegian  fortress,  by  inventing  a  mode  of  carry- 
ing two  galleys,  five  large  boats,  and  a  sloop,  over- 
land for  fourteen  miles  from  Stromatadt  to  laorf jol." 

Two  centuries  and  a  half  before,  the  capture 
of  Constantinople  by  the  Turks  was  assisted 
in  a  similar  way:  "During  a  single  night 
seventy  galleys  of  two,  three,  and  five  benches 
of  rowers"  were  dragged  two  leagues  over- 
land along  a  specially  constructea  road  of 
greased  planks.  What  was  Sweden borg's 
method  ?  Was  it  a  copy  of  the  Turkish  plan  \ 
Charles  XII.  of  Sweden  waa  m  TwtVl^^  \iQ\» 
many  years  before  17  la.  ^ 


148 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [^  s.  vn.  fi 


Source  of  Quotation.— I  like  to  "verify 
my  quotations,    and  should  be  glad  if  any 
correspondent  would  tell  me  where  these  lines 
occur,  quoted  from  memory  :— 
I  saw  a  falling  leaf  soon  strew 
The  soil  to  which  it  owed  its  birth  ; 
I  saw  a  bright  star,  falling  too, 
But  never  reach  the  quiet  earth. 
Such  is  the  lowly  portion  blest. 
And  such  ambition's  foil'd  endeavour— 
The  falling  leaf  is  soon  at  rest, 
While  stars  which  fall,  fall  on  for  ever. 

S.  S. 

RuTTER  Family.  —Parentage  and  birthplace 
wanted  : — 

1.  Joseph  Rutter,  poet,  1635-40,  friend  of 
Ben  Jonson  (*  D.N.B.'  known). 

2.  Samuel  Rutter,  Bishop  of  Sodor  and  Man, 
1661-3  C  N.  &  Q.,'  3^  S.  iii.  30). 

3.  John  Rutter.  M.A.,  nonjuring  priest, 
1716  C  N.  Jc  Q  ,'  3^  S.  iii.  243-4).     WT  C.  B. 

"Bougies":  ** Buggies."— I  find  the  fol- 
lowing in  a  letter  from  an  undergraduate  at 
Caius  College,  Cambridge,  of  29  August,  1767: 

"  I  have  been  somewhat  more  gay  and  idle  than 
I  should  have  been  this  last  fortnight  in  making 
parties  to  go  on  the  water,  and  in  riding  out  to  New- 
market and  the  country  round  ahout  Cambridge  in 
little  one-horse  chaises,  which  they  call  Boughs." 

Is  the  vehicle  thus  named  the  original  of 
**  bug^y,"  which  now  comes  back  to  us  from 
America  1  Albert  Hartshorne. 

Sack  and  Sugar.— In  the  same  letter  it  is 
stated  that  during  the  intervals  of  examina- 
tion by  the  Master  and  Fellows  for  a  number 
of  exhibitions  at  Caiua  College,  worth  from 
3/.  to  10^.  a  year  each, 

"it  is  customary  with  us,  and  has  been  so  ever 
since  the  days  of  Dr.  Caius,  to  have  sugar-roll  and 
sack  standing  in  the  hall,  and  battledores  and 
shuttlecocks  to  divert  ourselves  with  while  we  are 
not  engaged  with  the  Fellows." 

Is  "sugar-roll"  sugar-candy ;  and  is  not  this 
a  late  survival  of  the  once  universal  habit  of 
taking  sugar  with  dry  Spanish  wine,  after  its 
first  use  had  passea  trom  medicinal  em- 
ployment] Fafytaff  exclaims,  "If  sack  and 
sugar  be  a  fault,  God  help  the  wicked  !  " 

Albert  Hartshorne. 

"Belongs  with."— James  Russell  Lowell 
concludes  his  article  on  Thoreau  in  *My  Study 
Windows '  with  this  sentence  :— 

**  He  belongs  with  Donne  and  Browne  and  Novalis ; 
if  not  with  the  originally  creative  men,  with  the 
scarcely  smaller  class  who  are  peculiar,  and  whose 
leaves  shed  their  invisible  thought-seed  like  ferns." 

Is  "  belongs  with,"  used  as  here  in  the  sense 
of  ''ranks  with/'  a.  liter&ry  Americanism  ] 

Thomas  Bayne. 


Verses  on  the  Irish  Famine. 
one  direct  me  to  the  full  text  c 
perhaps  by  Thackeray,  that  appet 
our  Irish  famine  of  1845-7  ?    It  con 

What's  to  be  done  at  all,  Mr.  Commis! 
Here's  a  lot  of  praties  wouldn't  plazo  1 
"Earlies"  and  "lumpers,"   **cups" 
praties 
Gone  to  the  divil. 

AlFR] 
Rathgar,  Dublin. 

"Jeber's  cooks." 

"And  though  the  Cockatrice  bee  v 
out  remedy  whilest  hee  lyueth :  yet 
dead  and  burnt  te  ashes,  hee  loseth  a! 
&  the  ashes  of  him  are  good  for  Al 
namelye  in  turning  and  chaungingof  m( 
not  seene  the  proof  therof,  and  yet  1 
one  of  Jeber's  cokes." 
So  Gerard  Legh  in  his  *A 
Armorye,'  1568,  fol.  61.  Will  ai 
why  Jeber's  cooks  are  so  called  ? 

Wm. 

Lay  Canon.— What  are  the  m 
origin  of  the  office  of  a  lay  canon 
English  cathedrals  does  the  office 

K( 

[For  petty  canons  or  vicars  choral 
368,  474.] 

John  Edward  Foster,  born  13 
1804,  was  admitted  bo  Westminstc 
12  February,  1816.  Can  any  co 
give  me  particulars  concerning  ] 
*  Westminster  School  Register '  ? 

G. 

J.  FouLis  was  admitted  to  \ 
School  on  13  March,  1801).  Can 
spondent  of  *  N.  tfe  Q.'  help  me  to  id 

G. 

F.  N.  B.  V.  B.  Fortune  was  i 
Westminster  School  on  26  June,  18 
be  triad  to  obtain  any  inforraatioi 
him.  G. 

Source  of  Lines  Wanted.— 

Plays  are  a  mirror 
By  which  men  may  see 
How  bad  they  are, 
How  good  they  oiijrht  t( 

Abraham  Elder.— Who  was 
Elder,  Esquire,"  who  appears  o 
page  as  author  of  *  Tales  and  Lej 

I  Isle  of  Wight,'  published  1841,  se< 
1843,   with    illustrations     bv   Ro 

I  shank  ]  One  of  the  legends,  '  1 
Newtown,'  is  almost  literally  (in  it 

[  identical  with  llobert  Browning's 

\  ot  licbOi^^Mi^  ovjX^  \v\  "^tosq.    Brc 


»*8.vilfbb.23.i9oi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


149 


mmtake  oat)  published  *  Dramatic  Eomances/ 
in  which  the  VPied  Piper'  appe^re^J,  in  1845, 
It  wunld  b©  interesting  to  know  whether  he 
wm  at  all  indebted  for  his  motif  to  the  book 
named.  I  do  not  remember  to  have  seen  it 
stated  whence  he  derived  the  idea,  and  th© 
iMemblanee  in  the  details  o£  both  prose  and 
lyrical  narrative  U  sotnewhat  striking, 

H.  B.  W 
TThe  Pied  Hper  of  Hamelln  *  api>pared  in  *  Dra- 
matic Lyrics*'  publisbed  in  1842,  three  years  before 
'pTimttk  Romances.*  Mr,  Arthur  BymnTis,  in  hia 
Intrudnctioij  tci  the  Study  of  Browning'  (1886), 
ttji  with  referonce  to  the  '  Pied  Pij»er  :  *'  Mr. 
Browrning^'s  authority  for  the  at ory— which  i^  told 
LE)  ruiuiy  qtinrteri— Tvaa  North  Waaloy'ft  *  Wonders 
of  Ihe  Liitte   World/  1678,  and  the  books  there 

Questing  Beast.— What  is  the  ^'quei^ting 
mat''  mentioned  in  Malory  1        Stdden'T. 

^  May- WATER. — Tbia  m  rain  which  haa  fallen 
ja  May,  and,  if  caught  in  a  clean  ve-^-^l  and 
oouldl,  it  h  an  infallible  remedy  for  sore 
^mm  man  or  bea^iL  Such  at  leaj^t  is  the 
Wief  of  our  keeper,  a  Welshman.  Is  the 
notioD  a  general  one,  or  ia  it  confined  to 
*^ale,'!?  Jeannik  S,  Popham. 

Piu  Mft^naii,  Llanrwrst,  North  WaJeF, 

John  Parr,  Mayor,  1773.— With  what  city 
or  town  was  the  above  connected  ?  I  possess 
m  copy  of  Tate  and  Brady's  '  New  Version 
<3f  the  Pisalma  of  David,'  published  in  1771, 
^ch  hia  nam^  office,  and  the  year  stamped 
^  the  top  side.  He  gave  it  to  hisi  daughter 
J**ry  on  New  Year's  Day,  1779.      J.  P.  B, 

Kottitigharo, 

"  Four- AHi>-Fi  VE."— 

^^y,  ask  tne  not  about  the  Four-ftud-FiTe, 
it  it  not  Btran^e  eaouch  to  be  alive  7 
1  am  so  buaiea  with  that  daring  thought. 
Hour  ihould  I  care  about  the  Fuur'audl*  ive  ? 

^i^  paniage  occurs  in  E.  Le  Gallienne's 
Orii^nal  Paraphrase  of  the  Rubaijat  of 
ymr  Khayyam/  Can  any  one  explain  what 
^*  meant  by  "the  Four-and-Five''?  Is  it 
perhaps  an  allusion  to  some  rule  laid  down 
in  fe  Koran?  L.  &  M. 

I^e  eanuot  vouch  for  Mr.  Lo  naUienne'a  ori^n- 
W  or  hi«  Oriental  knowledge.  We  imagine, 
■oje^w^  the  refereoce  to  be  to  the  four  elements 
^liresensea,  aa  iiAnal  in  Peratan  poeU,  The  phrase 
*i  be  found  in  Mr,  Whinfield's  *  Omar,*  tbouKh 
K  we  think,  in  FilzGerald'a.J 

^rriNG  TicxETS.— 1  have  recently  come 
f^TOsa  an  old  bookseller's  label  which  I  think 

*  »oithy  of  notice.  It  is  headed  "  Hook  ham's 
^rtajating  Library/^  opposite  Stafibrd  Street, 


neatly  engraved  and  printed,*-  It  would  be 
interesting  to  know  the  date  when  **  visiting 
tickets"  (by  which  I  conclude  are  meant  the 
pi-eaent-day  **  cards  ")  came  into  general  use^ 
and  something  of  their  history.  Was  the 
term  "  ticket  '*  in  general  u.se  in  the  pa^t,  or 
is  it  the  unique  expression  of  Mr,  Hook  ham  ? 

P,  C.  D.  M, 

Dover, 

[See,  under  *  Visiting  Cftrda/  8^»*  S.  iv,  486  :  vi  67, 
lie,  196,  272,  a?2  J  viiLlSS;  ix.  172,  475  ;  x,  245.) 

OocKADE  OP  House  of  Saxony.— Can  any 

of  the  readers  of  '  N.  dt  Q/  tell  me  the  colour 
of  the  cockade  of  the  house  of  Saxony  ? 

Cyclops, 

Chisel  M  ar£3«—  Can  any  readers  of  *  K,  <fe  Q J 
inform  nie  where  there  can  be  found  any  flis- 
sertation  on  or  description  of  the  tool  or 
chisel  marks  on  worked  stones  of  our  ancient 
eccle^iiastical  buildings  peculiar  to  the  various 
periods?  W,  H.  L. 

[For  numeroan  article*  on  maioiiR^  marks  flee 
8*^  a  vii.  208,  334,  416;  viii,  18,  Wl,  198,} 

"Sasson  Stones  "—The  stones  composing 
Stonehenge  are  known  locally  as  Sarson 
stones.  What  is  a  Sarson  stone  1  A  friend  who 
is  a^^quainted  with  the  neighbourhood  of  Salis- 
bury Plain  informs  me  that  **  Sarson  stona" 
is  used  in  that  localitj^  to  describe  stones 
deposited  by  glacial  action,  and  suggests  that 
the  name  is  a  corruption  of  Saracen,  Sarrazin, 
or  foreign^that  is  to  say,  not  native.  I  am 
not  satisfied  witli  this  explanation,  and  should 
be  glad  to  be  further  enlightened  on  tlie 
subject.  John  Hebb. 

[Large  boulder  atones  are  called  ^iarseoa  io  Wilts. 
See  Haiawell,  and  alflo  7*^  £j.  iv.  206,  316.] 

y ERSES  ON  THE  DeaTB  OF  QUEEN  VICTORIA. 

^Will  any  reader  who  has  written  poems  on 
the  above  kindly  send  me  copies  for  insertion 
in  my  *'In  Memoriam"  volume  1  He  will  by 
so  doing  greatly  oblige 

Chas,  F,  Foeshaw,  LKD. 
Hanover  Square,  Bradford. 

Battle  of  Seetabdldek-— A  set  of  prints 
of  the  battle  of  Seetabuldee,  India,  was  pub- 
lish ei  J  by  Bdward  Or  me,  of  Bond  Stri^et^ 
London,  date  2d  January,  18^3.  How  many 
are  in  the  set  ?  Where  can  a  set  be  seen  or 
obtained  ?  Arthue  L.  Cooper. 

Reading. 

** Rouen  ''  and  "Suocedanedm."—  In  Arthur 
Young's  ^Farmer  s  Calendar^*  new  edition,  1804, 
there  is  the  fQlh>wing  sentence  on  p.  97: — 

*  Upon  Incloattd  farms,  wVv^vftlWttafcYve  uItqw.-il 


WW  Bond  btreet,  and  atlvertises      Vjsifcmgj^^^y  jjQa„p^,,,a^4  ^tj  l^  ,i^^^\v  ^^TeatftT^VaxiK^^wax- 
Dcfcets,  {jomjmmeot  U^rda,  Book  Pmtes,  *feCj  /  My  possible  on ioeklarma,  tW ife«»e\>, a& XViai  tes^ 


160 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9-  s.  vil  fkb.  23. 1901. 


their  lamba,  should  b«  drawn  from  the  flock  of  ewes* 
and  put  to  thia  food,  Ufjon  whieb  &u  entire  reliance 
may  bo  had:  and  let  it  be  remembered,  that  all 
turnipa  should  b«  cooaumed  thi.^  Tnoi>th,  which 
circumstance  will  prove  the  vaat  importance  of 
reservfcd  grass  m  a  tm-cedaneitm,'' 

The  work  was  intended  for  farmers 
generally.  Were  the  two  words  I  place  in 
Italics  common  and  in  general  use?  Roiitn 
is  &  Suffolk  term,  I  believe, 

R,  Hedger  Wallace. 

Author  of  RficiTATiosf  Wanted, —  Some 
few  months  ago  I  heard  a  recitation  com- 
mencing 

Smile  on  the  world,  and  it  will  Bmile  on  you. 
I  have  tried  in  all  quarters  to  discover  the 
author  or  a  work  giving  this  piece  ;  perhaps 
some  one  can  help  me.  H,  T ,  S. 

Malt  and  Hop  Substitu^bs,— What  was 
the  '*bagage**  of  Gascoigne's  brewer  ('The 
Steele  Glas")t  D. 

King  akd  Queen  Equal,— How  far  back 
must  we  go  to  find  a  king  placing  on  a  throne 
beside  his  own,  on  a  level  with  and  indis- 
tinguishable from  it,  a  subject  in  the  shape  of 
a  Qu^n  C!onsort  ?  Ed  warn  and  Aiexand  ra  sit 
side  by  aide  in  state  as  did  William  and  Mary, 
but  Mary  was  Queen  Regnant,  not  Consort. 
Yet  I  fancy  that  medieval  precedents  can 
be  found,  or  else  our  child  legends  and  child 
games  would  not  differ  a.^  they  do  from 
modern  English,  French,  and  German  prac- 
tice, D, 

Public  Mourning,— The  men  servants  of 
the  ordinary  British  householder  used  tfi  be 
put,  at  great  cost,  whenever  the  death  of  any 
cousin  or  any  prince  gave  a  decent  excuse, 
into  a  mourning  now  never  seen.  The 
ordinary  livery,  and  the  plain  clothen  of  the 
butler,  were  replaced  by  rough  dull  black 
(perhaps  worsted)  liveries,  with  black  epau- 
lets and  aiguUlHtti,  This  custom  survives 
in  continental  Europe.  The  last  time  I 
remember  it  at  home  was  at  the  doatli  of 
the  Princess  Sophia.  Is  it  wholly  extinct 
her«f  ^_^ D. 

UGO  FOSCOLO  IN  LONDON. 

(B^  S,  vi,  326.) 

Amokg  the  paper !i  left  by  Foscolo  at  his 

death,  which   were  the  sole  inheritance  of 

his   daughter  —  who    bequeathed    thera    to 

her    father's   faithful   friend    the   Canon ico 

RiegQ,    from    whom    they    were   purchased 

in  1834— now  preaefved  in   the  Aceademla 

L&bromca  at  Leghorn^  are  some  vetoes  ia 


English  addresse^l  to  Foscolo,  They  are 
print-ed  in  the  appendix  to  the  first  volume 
of  *01i  Amori  di  Ugo  Foscolo  nelle  sue 
Lettere.'  pp.  .567 -8»  and  are  apparently  by 
a  ladv,  whose  identity  the  editor  has  vainly 
endeavoured  to  ascertain.    The  verses  are  as 

follow  Ji  I  — 

To  Uoo  FosooLo. 
Busy,  curious,  wandering,  Strauger, 
Tim? ugh  BoncI  Street  a  daily  raoger, 

Chuaiijg  orry  Belle  that  tiiea  ; 
How  I  'm  bleat  to  find  thy  dwelhnjf, 
Since  with  flame  my  bosom  *fl  swellmg 

K-judled  by  thy  piercing  eyea  ! 
Oft  I  Se  felt  their  beama  auick-glAneing, 
That  the  Daudy-throng  advaneing 

Frora  the  crowd  of  Nymphs  they  lamed 
To  the  little  ifroui>e  of  Beauty, 
Where,  with  traiterous  shew  of  dutFi 

All  their  fatal  splondour  buroed. 
Ah  !  then,  gentle  Stranj^r*  hear  me ! 
Drop  their  Irina^d  lida  when  aear  me, 

Fity  for  ray  fate  to  shew  ; 
Or  if  Pity*8  glowiog  Brother, 
Love,  can  touch  thee  for  anotheri 

Give  lue  soon  thy  mind  U>  know. 
Valentines'  aweet  day  tomorrow 
ShaU  oonfirra  ray  bli^s  or  sorrow. 

Close  to  Coudu it-street  ahalt  meat 
Thy  Laura  in  a  new  French  Bonnet, 
Boui^  of  roay  love  nimn  it 

And  rosy  aandata  to  her  feet. 

By  satin  robes  of  snowy  whiteaeiw 
And  II  muff  of  sable  brightnesa 

1  bhdil  atand  qonfeat  to  view  ; 
But  how  vain  the  smartest  drea«e», 
Till  mv  ear  my  fond  heart  blesses 

Witfl  some  tender  word  from  thee. 

Be  that  day  then,  dearest  Stranger, 
In  Bond -street  onw  more  a  Ranker, 

Trembling  Laura  there  to  meet ; 
And  if  kindred  maaton  moves  the« 
For  the  maid  who  fondly  Invea  thee. 

Ble«s  her  with  thy  accenta  sweot  I 

hkXTBJL. 

Foscolo  appears  t^D  have  taken  the  invita- 
tion seriously,  and  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Dacre, 
dated  December,  1822,  he  tells  her  that  he 
has  had  her  translation  of  Petrarch's  sonnet 
'Chiare  fresche  e  dolci  ac<jue '  read  to  him  b? 
a  lady,  a  re«l  lady,  una  mtlady^  whom  h©  had 
met  under  singular  circumstances,  who  recited 
poetry  admirably,  and  who  was  herself  a  bit 
of  a  poet,  tin  fantino  jmef^tm  C  E  pistol  ario,'  iii. 
82-3).  This  persi^n  the  author  of  *Gli 
Amori  *  identifies  with  the  Laura  of  the 
poetical  epistle  to  Foscolo,  but  has  not  been 
able  to  ascertain  her  name. 

The  lines  are  evidently  written  by  a 
woman  who  knew  Foscolo's  address  (Fcweolo 
at  one  time  had  chambers  in  Old  Bond 
Street)  and  was  acquainted  with  hia  person 
aivd  habits.  Is  thei-e  any  possibility  of  dis- 
i  cjoverav^  ^\v(^  ^^a  ^w»\    tA  «Quld  scaroely  be 


9*  8.  VIL  Feb.  23. 1901.]         NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


151 


Lady  Dacre,  whose  polished  style  would  not 

readily  lend  itself    to    the    composition    ot 

society  verses;  and  it  does  not  appear  that 

any  one  of  the  four  sisters  Russell,  with  whonj 

Foscolo  was  intimate,  had  any  poetical  talent, 

although  they  appreciated  poetry.     Foscolo 

^as  patronized  by  Lord  and  Lady  Holland, 

and  must  have  been  acquainted  with  most  of 

the  distinguished   persons  who    frequented 

Lady  Holland's  receptions,  among  whom  wen- 

several  "literary  ladies,"  as  Byron  scornfully 

terms  them,  who  were  capable  of  composing 

the  verses  addressed  to  Foscolo. 

It  is  Dot  improbable  that  the  authoress  of 
the  verses  was  Maria  Graham,  afterwards  thc^ 
^'de  of  Sir  Augustus  Callcott,  the  painter,  t<.) 
whoDL  in  a  letter  dated  3  February,  1821, 
Foscolo  promised  to  send  one  of  the  edition 
of  sixteen  copies  of  his  essay  on  Petrarch,  in 
which  he  observes,  with  intention,  that  he  ha,s 
endeavoured  **  to  disclose  the  hitherto  mysteri- 
ous heart  of  the  most  coquettish,  most  saint- 
hke,  lady  Laura,''  la  civettusinia^  santissima, 
»w<i>nnaZaum  CEpistolario,'  p.  561,  Orlan- 
ami  &  Mayer,  od.  1864). 

.  Maria  Graham's  first  husband  was  a  captain 
^the  Royal  Navy,  and  with  him  she  spent 
some  time  in  Italy  in  1819,  which  visit  she 
described  in  a  book  entitled  *  Three  Months 
m  the  Mountains  east  of  Rome,'  published  in 
1820.  She  was  the  authoress  of  several  other 
jorks,  the  most  popular  being  *  Little  Arthur's 
History  of  England.* 

The  vicar  of  Turnham  Green,  in  a  com- 
munication  to  *N.  «k  Q.'  (4^'»  S.  xi.  447) 
referring  to  an  inquiry  in  *  N.  <k  Q.'  in  1871, 
states  that  Ugo  Foscolo  died  in  a  house  long 
occupied  by  the  late  Dr.  (JoUer  on  the  north 
side  of  Turnham  Green  Road,  opposite  Chis- 
wick  Lane.  Dr.  Coller's  house,  which  is  still 
standing,  and  is  now  No.  100,  Ch  is  wick  High 
fioad,  was  formerly  part  of  an  inn  with  the 
sign  of  "The  King  of  Bohemia."  This  inn  was 
Jvided  into  three  tenements,  the  doctor's 
00086  being  in  the  centre.  The  vicar  gives 
JP  interesting  account  of  the  disinterment  of 
Foscolo's  body,  which  was  found  to  be  well 
preserved,  the  features  being  recognizable  by 
persons  who  had  known  him  in  life. 

John  Hebb. 

Much  interesting  information  concerning 
Ugo  Foscolo  may  be  found  in  *N.  &  Q.,' 
^"'S.  ii.  238  :  vii.  528  ;  viii.  107,  255  ;  xi.  447, 
particularly  his  residence  in  his  latter  days 
^  Turnham  Green,  where  he  died  in  1827. 
He  was  burierl  in  Chiswick  Churchyard, 
whence  his  body  was  exhumed,  forty-four 
2^  afterwards,  in  1871,  and  reinterred  at 
wta  Crooe^  Florence.    It  is  stated   that 


though  Foscolo's  remains  were  interred  in  a 
common  earth  grave  at  Chiswick,  they  were 
found  quite  perfect,  and  the  features  recog- 
nizable. The  soil  must  have  been  of  a  very 
antiseptic  nature. 

In  a  little  memoir  of  Ugo  Foscolo  prefixed 
to  an  extract  from  his  famous  poem  *  1  Sepol- 
cri,'  the  dates  of  his  birth  and  death  are  given 
as  1777  and  1827.  This  occurs  in  a  well-chosen 
selection  of  Italian  poetry,  *I  Poeti  Italiani 
Moderni,'  edited  by  Miss  Louisa  Merivale, 
published  by  Williams  <k  Norgate  in  1865. 
Ugo  Foscolo  instances  in  fine  language  his 
own  feelings  on  seeing  the  tombs  of  Machia- 
velli,  Michel  Angela  and  Galileo  in  the  church 
of  Santa  Croce  at  Florence,  and  now  his  own 
remains  repose  amongst  those  of  the  mighty 
dead  :— 

A  egregie  cose  il  forte  animo  accendono 
W  urne  de*  forti.  o  PindemoDte !  e  bella 
E  santa  fanno  al  peregrin  la  terra 
Che  le  ricetta.    lo,  quando  il  nionumento 
Vidi  ove  posa  il  corpo  di  quel  grande 
Che  temprando  lo  siiettro  a'  regnatori 
Gli  all6r  ne  sfronda. 
Lord  Byron  in  *  Childe  Harold's  Pilgrimage,* 
canto  iv.,  published  originally  in  1818,  after 
an  interval  of  several  years  from  the  issue  of 
the  first  canto,  has  beautifully  alluded  to  the 
place  of  interment. 
In  Santa  Croce's  holy  precincts  lie 
Ashes  which  make  it  holier,  dust  which  is 
Even  in  itself  an  immortality, 
Though  there  were  nothing  save  the  past,  and  this, 
The  particle  of  those  sublimities 
Which  have  relapsed  to  chaos :  here  repose 
Angelo's,  Alfieri's  bones,  and  his, 
The  starry  Galileo,  with  his  woes  ; 
Here  Machiavelli's  earth  return'd  to  whence  it  rose. 

Stanza  liv. 
John  Pickpord,  M.A. 


An  Unclaimed  Poem  by  Ben  Jonson  (9^**  S. 
iv.  491  :  V.  34,  77,  230,  337.  477 ;  vi.  96,  430, 
477 ;  vii.  96).-—"  On  the  mind  of  an  adversary,*' 
Matthew  Arnold  once  said,  "  one  never  makes 
the  faintest  impression."  Criticism  of  Mr. 
Curry's  diffuse  and  inaccurate  article  is  not 
a  gracious  task,  but  silence  would  be  mis- 
interpreted. 

The  Goodyere  family.— My  information  was 
derived  from  the  Rev.  F.  C.  Cass*s  valuable 
r)arish  history,  *  Monken  Hadley,'  1880.  The 
two  Sir  Henrys  are  fully  dealt  with  on 
pp.  145-51.  If  Mr.  Curry  requires  the 
original  authority  for  the  date  of  the  elder 
Sir  Henry's  death,  it  is  Harleian  MS.  757, 
folio  145.  The  younger  Goodyere  dabbled  in 
verse- writing  ;  for  a  cataloj^ue  of  his  efforts 
see  a  note  by  Mr.  G.  F.  Warner  in  H.  A. 
Bright's  *Poeina  irom  S\v  Y^e^tv^m  X^K^nj'^ 
J'apers/  Roxbarghe  C\\x\i  eA,,  \«11 ,  \i^.  '»i-^- 


152 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*  s.vil  fee.  23,1901. 


The  Goodyere  epitaph.—"  Short  and  suffi- 
cient" Mb.  Curry  calls  it,  and  for  once  1 
cordially  agree  with  him. 
An  ill  year  of  a  Goodyere  us  bereft, 
Who,  goue  tp  God,  much  lack  of  him  here  left. 
Of  such  a  Muse  as  that 

Man  wauU  but  little  here  below, 
Nor  wants  that  little  long. 

Mr.  Curry,  noticing  that  a  Sir  Henry  Good- 
yere was  celebrated  in  Jonson's  *  Epigrams/ 
assumed  that  he  was  also  the  subject  of  the 
epitaph.  That  was  a  mistake,  but  it  certainly 
seemed  to  establish  a  link  between  Goodyere 
and  Jonson.  On  the  strength  of  this  sup- 
posed identity,  Mb.  Curry  assigned  the  verses 
to  Jonson.  Admitting  the  collapse  of  his 
main  argument,  Mr.  Curry  now  tries  to  re- 
construct it  substantially  as  follows.  (1)  Jon- 
son wrote  verses  equally  bad,  or,  as  he  prefers 
to  put  it,  "  at  the  least  quite  as  good."  (2)  It  is 
"quite  clear"  that  Goodyere  was  Camden's 
friend;  so  it  is  "extremely  probable"  that 
he  was  Jonson's.  Both  assertions,  though 
possible,  are  not  yet  proved:  and  if  they 
were,  they  would  not  cfecide  the  question  of 
authorship.  (3)  Jonson  was  a  married  man. 
This  stimulated  "tender  feelings,"  which 
found  vent  in  epitaphs.  (4)  Jonson  wrote 
'  Every  Man  in  his  Humour '  the  year  after 
the  epitaph  (t.c,  in  1596).  This  play  was  a 
masterpiece,  therefore  he  must  nave  done 
good  work  long  before.  The  argument  suffers 
here,  either  from  over-subtlety  or  from  in- 
coherence ;  but  if  the  date  has  anything  to  do 
with  it, '  Every  Man  in  his  Humour '  was  acted 
in  1598,  as  Jonson  himself  tells  us.  Mr.  Curry 
appears  to  have  been  again  misled  by  Gifford. 
To  sum  up,  we  have  not  a  shred  of  proof  that 
Jonson  wrote  the  lines,  but  merely  a  series  of 
flimsy  surmises.  First,  Mr,  Curry  announces 
that  ne  could  not  find  any  notice  of  the  elder 
Goodyere  in  "  numerous  books  of  reference"; 
then,  intuition  supplying  the  place  of  know- 
ledge, he  decides  that  Gfoodyere  was  "  a  man 
whom  it  must  have  been  an  honour  to  know  "; 
and,  lastly,  he  puts  the  triumphant  question, 
"Why  should  not  Ben  Jonson  have  known 
and  loved  this  good  knight,"  and  written  the 
epitapli  ?  Well,  the  go<xl  knight  appears  to 
have  dabbled  in  treason,  and  certainly  ruined 
the  family  estates,  and  I  am  not  so  sure  about 
his  character  as  Camden  and  Mr.  Curry  are. 
In  the  folio  of  1616  Jonson  published  a  col- 
lection of  occasional  verse.  1  have  tried  to 
show,  in  an  analysis  which  I  believe  to  be 
exhaustive,  that  the  omission  of  any  poem 
written  before  that  part  of  the  volume  went 
to  press  can  be  explained  (9"»  S.  v.  338).  If 
Joaaoa  did  perpetr&ts  the  Goodyere  epitaph,  I 
^hy  did  he  Afterwa,rdHBnp^re^it\  It  was  not 


lost,  for  Camden  had  printed  it  in  1605  ;  and 
what  finer  compliment  could  Jonson  have 
paid  than  to  print  side  by  side  the  verses 
commemorating  the  two  members  of  the 
family  ?  Waiving  all  other  objections,  such 
an  omission  is  under  the  circumstances 
decisive. 

'  Underwoods '  (2).  —  My  opinion  of  this 
poem  was  expressecl,  I  had  hoped,  with  clear- 
ness in  *N.  «fe  Q.,'  9"»  S.  v.  339.  Apparently 
not,  to  judge  from  some  cloudy  verbiage 
about  blowing  hot  and  cold,  midnight  hag^ 
and  knots  which  trouble  me.  Mr.  Curry 
must  have  read  my  suggestion  with  some 
carelessness.  If  he  will  re-read  pp.  98  and  99 
of  Mr.  Swinburne's  *  Study,'  contrasting  Her- 
rick  with  Jonson,  and  pointing  out  how  far 
the  disciple  outstripped  the  master,  and  then 
compare  the  statement  on  p.  100  that  com- 
petent judges  "  will  acknowledge  that  it 
would  be  difficult"  to  name  songs  of  the 
period,  including  Herrick's,  ''at  least  as 
beautiful "  as  "  On,  do  not  wanton  with  those 
eyes,"  perhaps  he  will  explain  how  these 
seemingly  opposite  judgments  are  to  be  re- 
conciled. Mr.  Swinburne  is  commenting 
on  Gifford's  critical  extravagance,  and  the 
context  seems  to  reauire  the  reading  "it 
would  not  be  difficult." 

As  to  "  spill "  a;nd  its  absurd  substitute,  I 
am  sorry  to  have  underrated  Mr.  Curry's 
knowledge  of  the  language,  but  I  think  the 
mistake  was  a  fair  deouction  from  the  strain 
in  which  he  wrote.  He  connected  the  phrase 
with  a  realistic  picture  of  Jonson's  personal 
appearance,  his  '^  huge  bulk  of  body,  bloated 
with  sack,"  and  it  did  not  occur  to  me  that 
any  one  who  knew  the  meaning  of  "spill" 
could  do  this. 

Twere  better  spare  a  butt,  than  spill  his  muse, 
on  which  he  now  rests  his  case,  explains  the 
source  of  his  confusion.  In  that  passage 
Jonson  quibbles  with  the  word,  and  tne  con- 
text makes  the  double  meaning  clear.  In 
'  Underwoods '  (2)  there  is  nothing  equivocal. 
So  much  so  that,  for  a  poem  of  Jonson,  Mr. 
Swinburne  finds  in  it  "exceptional  grace  of 
expression";  and  Mr.  Curry  actually  quotes 
this  tribute,  with  the  magnanimous  remark, 
**  I  refrain  from  any  comment "  1  I  cited  the 
poem  to  illustrate  the  incompetence  of  a  critic 
who  found  supreme  lyric  power  in  its  wire- 
drawn emotion  ;  the  absurd  love  scene  in 
'  Poetaster,'  Act  IV.  sc.  vii.,  is  hardly  more 
artificial.  I  had  no  conception  that  there  was 
anything  to  criticize  in  the  use  of  the  word 
"spill."  It  is  difficult  to  do  justice  to  Mb. 
Curry's  exploits  with  this  "tetrastich." 
,  First  he  react  into  it  a  grotesque  suggestion 
\  vihicVi  \&  iioX»  V()  \^  ic>^\id  \>V\AtQ ;  then  he  re- 


«*  S.  VIL  Fib.  23, 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


153 


wrote  the  text,  turning  it  into  utter  bathos  : 
and  to  give  the  crowning  touch  to  this  pro 
cedare,lie  cited  approvingly  Mr.  SwinburneV^ 
complaint  about  the  careless  editing  of  Jon 
son's  text.    Certainly  the  general  condition 
of  the  text  Is  far  from  satisfactory,  but  it  i« 
devoutly  to  be  hoped  that  we  shall  be  spare*  I 
any  further  samples  of  this  method  ot  cor 
recting  it.  Percy  Simpson. 

Qrierson  of  Dublin  (9"*  S.  vii.  27).— Ac 
cording  to  *The  Imperial  Dictionary  of  Uni 
yersal Biography  '  the  office  of  Kings  Printer 
in  Ireland  was  conferred  by  patent  on  Mr. 
Qeorge  Grierson  by  Lord  Carteret  in  recog 
nitioD  of  the  eminent  services  rendered  Ui 
literature  by  Qrierson's  wife  Constantia.  Her 
maiden  name  would  seem  to  be  unknown, 
but  she  was  of  humble  parentage  and  born  in 
County  Kilkenny.  Though  forced  to  earn 
her  living,  she  had  at  the  early  age  of  eighteen 
"-almost  unaided— become  versed  in  French. 
AAtin,  Greek,  and  Hebrew.  She  wrote  some 
poems, and  edited  amongother  works  those  of 
Terence  and  Tacitus.  The  latter  she  dedi- 
cated to  Lord  Carteret,  himself  a.  scholar  of 
great  attainments.  She  died  in  the  year  1833, 
at  the  early  age  of  twenty-seven,  it  is  much 
to  be  regretted  that  no  modern  writer  has 
given  us  a  life  of  Lord  Carteret,  afterwards 
w)rd  Granville.  I  should  be  most  grateful 
for  information  concerning  his  second  wife* 
^y  Sophia  Fermor,  eldest  daughter  of  Lady 
romfret  (of  the  Hertford  and  Pomf ret  corre- 
spondence). Lady  Sophiadied  after  childbirth, 
»t  the  early  age  of  twenty-four.  Her  rare 
charms  and  gifts  are  alluded  to  in  the  letters 
of  Ladv  Mary  Wortley  Montagu,  as  also  in 
those  of  Horace  Walpole.  She  is  credited  with 
hemg  the  Tantalus  of  Horace  Walpole,  and 
wirtainly  his  letters  contain  no  passage  more 
hneor  touching  than  that  which  briefly  re- 
counts her  death.  There  is  reason  to  think 
that  the  appreciation  of  intellect  in  women 
which  led  lx)rd  Carteret  to  confer  patronage 
on  Constantia  Grierson  was  not  without  a 
determining  influence  in  the  selection  of  his 
second  wife.  Harriett  McIlquham. 

Possibly  a  reference  to  Blackburne's  *Illus- 
tnous  Irishwomen,'  1877;  Timperley's  *  His- 
f^  of  Printers  and    Printing,'   1839  ;    and 

fkl  •  f^''  ^"^  ^-  ^'  '  ^'^  ^'  ^'^'^  "i*  ™*y  furnish 
toe  information  required. 

JEvERARD  Home  Coleman. 
71.  Brecknock  Road. 

The  Gold  Florin  (9*»»  S.  vii.   7).— I  sent 
^•»Q.'of  6  January,  containing  my 
'^  reference  to  the  origin  of  the  gold 


uery 
orin. 


authority  on  questions  connected  with  the 
history  of  currency  in  the  Middle  Age^,  and 
he  has  sent  me  in  reply  the  subjoined  in- 
formation, which  I  have  his  permission  to 
forward  to  you  : — 

"Lea  difii^rentes  dates  donnas  par  Le  Blanc, 
Saulcy,  et  d'autres  com  me  se  rapportant  k  des 
pi^es  d'or  appellee  francs  ou  florins  sont  complete- 
men  t  erron^es.  Je  me  suis  adress^  k  un  savant  de 
Pontoise  au  sujet  de  la  donation  cit^  par  Le  Blanc 
et  rapport^e  k  Tan  1068.  Cest  1968  qu'il  faut  lire, 
et  c'est  la  date  des  archives  de  la  vilfe.  Du  resta, 
ces  quatre  pieces  sont  des  francs,  auxquels  on  donne 
Tappeliation  g^n^rale  de  florins.  Le  franc  a  ^l^ 
frapp6  en  1361  par  Jean  II.  Les  documents  mon6- 
taires  de  Saulcy  sont  remplis  de  fautes.  L'auteur 
n'y  a  mis  aucune  critique,  et  T Academic  des  In- 
scriptions I'a  durement  coudamn6.  11  cut  mieux 
valu  corriger  les  fautes  de  dates.  Tout  ce  qui  est 
ant^rieur  k  Philippe  le  Bel  est  absolument  sujet  k 
caution,  car  on  ne  tenait  pas  alors  de  registres  de 

Froc^  verbaux.    Les  florins  ou  royaux  donnas  k 
ann^e  1180  sont  de  1280  sous  Philippe  III.  ou  de 
1290  sous  Philippe  IV." 

That  of  course  settles  the  matter.  The 
error  in  the  date  quoted  by  Le  Blanc  is  no 
fault  of  his.  The  authority  he  quotes,  the 
*  Histoire  du  Vicariat  de  Pontoise.'  is  in  the 
British  Museum,  and  the  date  is  there  as  he 
gives  it.  In  regard  to  De  Saulcy's  mint  docu- 
ments, Shaw's  'History  of  Currency'  (ed. 
1897,  p.  3)  refers  to  those  in  question  without, 
apparently,  any  suspicion  of  their  inaccuracy. 
William  Warkand  Carlile. 

[We  are  much  obliged  to  the  distinguished  French 
authority  on  numismatics  for  his  contribution  to 
the  subject.] 

Date  Wanted  (9^*»  S.  vii.  27,  96).— Surely 
the  two  replies  given  cannot  be  regarded  as 
an  adequate  answer  to  Mb.  Southwell. 
The  date  of  any  and  every  Church  fast  or 
festival  day  in  any  and  every  preceding  year 
is  very  "common  knowledge."  A  cursory 
j*eference  to  such  a  readily  accessible  au- 
thority as  Sir  H.  Nicolas's  *  Chronology,'  <kc., 
mentioned  by  your  correspondents,  gives  Fri- 
flay,  25  May,  as  "the  morrow  after  Corpus 
Ohristi  Day  "  in  the  year  1543.  But  that  is 
by  no  means  all,  as  it  appears  to  me,  that 
Mr.  Southwell  desired  to  know.  He  formu- 
lates his  desire  explicitly  :  "  What  day  in  the 
present  style  of  reckoning  is  the  equivalent 
[italics  mine]  of  *  the  morrow  after  Corpus 
Ohristi  Day '  in  the  year  154.3  ? "  An  analogy 
illustrates  the  query  :  take  the  difference 
l>etween  the  so-called  **  old "  and  "  new " 
(present)  Lady  Day,  Midsummer  Day,  St. 
James's  (oyster-grotto)  Day,  Michaelmas  Day, 
kc.^  the  style  enacted  in  1752  giving  in  each 
instance  the  date  so  many  —  now^  1901,, 
thirteen— days  earlier  tWrv  \\ve>  ^axaa  ^yr!0^ 


to  H  de  Vvmne,  probably  the  beat  living  ^  day  in  the  obsoleto   Ht^\^  Q.  1«^^  SX.  'Ocv^X. 


154 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [««» s.  vil  fkb.  23.  i9ol 


Mr,  Southwell  desires  the  equivalent  of  the 
same  da^  of  1543  in  the  present  year  1901). 
I  submit  that  this  analogy  su guests  the 
formula,  "The  dav  after  Corpua  Christi  Day 
in  1543  "  having  been  ascertained  to  be  Fri- 
day, S.'^  May,  ^5-13  =  12^  or>  in  other  wordy, 
we  arrive  at  the  fact  that  the  equivalent 
"  morrow  "  for  the  present  year  is  Saturday^ 
12  May.  Should  Me.  Southwell  daiire  to 
know  the  equivalent  of  the  morrow  of  the 
actual  holiday  in  this  year.  Cor  puss  Chris  ti 
being  Thursday,  6  June,  morrow  Friday, 
7  June,  by  the  same  formula  7  June- 13^ 
25  (May),  we  arrive  at  Saturday,  g5  May, 
1901,  or,  by  an  odd  coincifJeneei  the  iiame  day 
AS  in  1543  itself.  Gnomon. 

Temple, 

Moon  Loek  (9^  S,  vii,  S7,  96),— I  wonder  no 
correspondent  has  given  you  the  frerman 
"saws  "—viz.,  "  Ab  nehmend/'  when  themoi>n 
wanes,  from  the  outer  curve  of  the  script  A^ 
and  *'Zu  nehmend/*  when  it  waxes*  from  the 
outer  curve  of  the  script  3.  I  have  never  had 
any  other  guide  to  the  condition  of  the  moon, 
EmvAED  Heron  Allen. 

The  BiBHOP  of  London's  Funeral  (9^  S. 
vii.  89).— Ibaou^  says  that  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury  held  his  cro^s  while  pronouncing 
the  benediction*  Is  thia  a  modern  "uae"i 
I  ask  because,  ha%4ng  often  attended  functions 
in  which  Cardinal  Manning  toi>k  part,  1  never 
saw  him  carry  hiscros^i.  It  was  always  carried 
before  bini— I  have  two  or  three  times  carried 
it  myHelf— and  held  before  him  while  he  gave 
the  blessing  with  his  riglit  hand,  bis  left 
holding  the  paHtoral  a  tan  or  crook.  The 
archiepiscopal  cross  (unlike  the  processional 
cross)  IS  carried  with  the  figure  thereon  facing 
the  archbishop,  as  is  mentioned  by  Tha  :^keray 
in  his  account  of  the  aecond  funeral  of  Napo- 
leon L  It  may  be  noted  that  in  mass  and 
office  of  the  dead,  whether  at  funerals  or  not, 
no  blesnin^  at  all  h  given,  ThiH  is  a  vestige 
of  earlier  time8,  as  the  blessing  now  given  at 
the  end  of  mass  does  not  appear  until  the 
tenth  century.  To  this  day  ttie  Carthusians 
omit  the  blessing  and  the  prayer  preceding 
it  at  all  masses*  George  Angus. 

^t.  Andrews,  N,B. 

P.S,^  am  aware  that  in  windows  or 
pictures  archbishops  are  represented  as  hold- 
ing their  crosses,  but  was  this  pre-Hefortnation 
practice  ?  I  have  read  that  St.  Thomas  a 
Beckett  took  his  cross  from  the  cro^s- bearer 
just  before  going  for  the  last  time  into  the 
cathedral,  but  was  this  usual  ? 


staff;  the  archbishop  was  probably  quite  right 
in  giving  the  blessing  **  crosier  in  hand," 
But  if  his  grace  held  his  archiepiscopal  cross, 
iitill  miscalled  a  **  crosier "  by  some,  he  wa« 
quite  wrong.  Whether  an  archbishop  should 
use  the  crosier  outside  his  own  diocese  I  am 
not  very  sure,  J*  T.  F* 

DurhftTD. 

John  Brigut  or  '  Cranforu  '  (9"*  S.  H  445 ; 
vii.  93),— in  to-day's  (S  February)  NewcasUs 
Chronich  the  enclosed  paragraph  occurs  :— 

**  A  chftrftcterifitic  story  i«  told  of  the  late  WtlUAm 
Ord,  of  Nunuvkirk,  who  never  took  much  painJi  with 
his  dr^HH.  when  in  London  on  one  acctLsion,  ft 
friend  of  hin  asked  him  why  he  wore  w  fihabby  % 
coat.  '  Oh,'  aaid  Mr.  Ord,  *  tiobody  knowa  me  hera» 
The  same  friend,  nice  ting  him  in  Newcastle  tu^ 
sequently,  and  sotiitig  that  he  had  not  changed  his 
attire,  aaked  him  the  same  question.  *  Ob,'  wa*  the 
reply,  *  everybody  knows  me  here  T  " 

Mr,  Orde  (not  Ord)  died  in  1842, 

R-  Welforb* 

Serjeant  Hawkins  (3*^  S,  iii  428  ;  4^*^  S.  L 
295,  3TB  ;  9^  S.  vi.  188,  250,  S74,  371,  492).— It 
seems  that  the  Serjeant's  father  was  at  any 
rate  not  John,  second  son  of  Sir  Richard 
Hawkins  (knighted  1687),  named  at  the 
fourth  reference  ;  for  this  knight's  will,  dated 
4  August  and  proved  12  November,  1687, 
P.C.C.  138  Foot^  shows  that  hia  son  John  was 
still  a  minor  in  1687  (cf  Foster^  *  Alumni 
Oxon,,  1500-1714,'  p,  676,  No.  22).  The  will 
names  Marcham  (Berks) as  the  knight's  birth- 
place, and  mentions  his  father  in-law  Richard 
Hackct,  sons'in-law  Mathew  Bluck  and 
Richard  Webb*  sons  Richard,  John,  and 
Mathew,  daughter  Jane,  and  other  persons 
(cf.  Harl.  Soc,  pub.,  vol.  Kxiilp.  66;  vol.x^iv. 
pj).  165,  175),  As  the  knight  bv  his  wUl  en- 
tailed his  *  lands  in  Oxfordshire*  upon  hia  sons 
successively,  he  is  possibly  identicAl  with  th© 
**8ir  Richard  Hawkins,  Knt,,of  Middle  Aston, 
Oxfordshire,'*  named  in  Gutch,  Wood's  '  Col- 
leges and  Halls  ^  (Oxford,  1786X  appendix, 
p,  324,  as  being  father  of  Richard  Hawkins, 
of  St,  Edmund  Hall  (cf,  Foster,  abi  itipra, 
No.  37).  H,  C, 

Old  LoNiKiN  Taverns  (9**^  S,  vii,  69).— 
John  Di prose,  in  his  '  Account  of  the  Parish 
of  Saint  Clement  Danes  in  1734 '  (London. 
1868),  says:  **This  strt«t  [Hollowel  Street] 
runs  up  to  the  May  Pol©  in  the  JStrand,  where 
is  *Five  Bell  Tavern,'  which  is  a  thorough- 
fare into  the  Wich  Street,  and  near  it  is  a 
small  alley  called  Sallett  s  Alley  "  (i.  288). 
EvERARB  Home  Colxmak. 

71,  Bre<:knook  Road. 


If  the  J^aii  Mfdl  Gazette  used  the  word       Boca   Chica   {^^  B,  vii*  69).— £<m*  thiea 
*cixmwt''  propetlj'i  bb  meaning  the  pastoral  \  m^\i^  ""^  amal\  nnsixtW**     It  is  exotic,  being 


9*  8.  VIL  Feb.  23, 1901.]  NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


155 


Bp&niah ;  yet  the  English  equivalent  is  not 
unknown  in  the  topography  of  our  south 
coant^  the  sandi  on  the  north  aide  of  Portland 
Ba^  at  the  Fleet's  mouth,  near  Weymouth, 
being  called  Soaallmouth  Sands,  I  am 
i^orant  of  the  history  of  the  deaignatioo 
mv%u  to  the  piece  of  land  at  the  raouth  of 
tn«  Blyth,  Perhaps  all  the  history  consists 
in  the  fact  that  somebmly  who  owned  and 
built  on  the  land  gratified  a  whim  bv  naming 
It  Boca  Chica  in  allusion  to  the  embouchure 
of  the  river,  F.  Adams. 

BocaChim  ("narrow  entrance"),  ^^H  known 
by  Admiral  Vernon's  attack  on  Cartagena 
(in  the  West  Indies)  in  March,  174h  The 
uanie  is  probably  used  coniraemorafciveiy  at 
the  mouth  of  the  Blyth  —  like  the  many 
Portobelloa  in  England  or  Scotland  called 
after  another  exploit  of  the  aame  admiral. 

R.  B. 

UpUUL 

Boca  ckka  means  in  Castilian  either 
•* little  mouth  "  or  **  mouth  of  little  ^rl." 

E.  S.  D0DG8ON. 

Boca  ckka  i$  Spanish^  and  me^ns  "little 
niouth,"  In  the  case  of  a  river  having  two 
aioatha^  or  harbour  with  two  entrancej*,  one 
l»f|er  than  the  other*  the  smaller  would 
te  bom  chka^  the  larger  ^jm  ^nmlt. 
Perhftp  there  is  a  Boca  Grande  near  the 
ame  locality.  In  any  case,  why  nam^  in 
»P4msh  ?  G.  S,  Faery. 

PosTRACT  OF  Sir  Jobk  Thoeold»  Bart., 
LoED  Mayor  or  London  (9"*  S,  vii.  106).— 
There  is  no  known  engraved  portrait  of  thia 
^orthj^.  There  may  be  a  picture ;  but,  if  so, 
^  ^nnt  from  it  has  ever  been  published, 
Thfl  City  would  be  the  most  likely  covert  to 
dmw  iu  quest  of  such  a  picture. 

ifuLiAK  Marshall. 

'K.  h  Q/  nr  Fiction  (9'**  S.  vii,  85),— If  it 
w  not  referring  back  too  far,  one  may  quote 
iromMr.  Austin  Dobson's  *The  Last  Despatch ': 
{Apropos^  I  *v©  tKe  lovelieat  bo3C 
For  Dolding  N<ite«  and  Queritit  /) 

AUTHUR  MaYALL, 

nie  colotin  are  graduoJly  fading  from  our  con- 
«*M  elections — indeed ,  the  very  la  fit  number  of 
wiat  excellent  tjeriodicarl,  Xofcj*  aiul  Qu>€.rifjff  con- 
lAiDtoi  a  grave  aisnuBsion  as  to  what  are  the  colours 
Thi^  c^didateft  of  di^T^retit  parties  ahouM  use, 


*|>  ^f  (BTirybody  did  not  know  the  Tory  true  btoe, 
^  whig  orange,  the  Radical  red."—'  The  Ivory 
u»t^  by  Mortimer  Collins,  vol,  i,  chap.  xi. 

_  a  KiKG, 

**QAUtmB8"^  Braces  (9^^  S.  vi.  330,  393).^ 
A  Qiiiitary  officer  who  had  spent  roany  j^gbts 


in  India  informed  me  that  the  word  in 
Hindustani  for  bnices  for  the  suspenston  of 
trousers  was  gai^tt^^,  same  as  in  Lowland 
Scotch,  A.  G.  Rkid, 

Auchterarder* 

Arui^pel:  Waldek  (9***B,  vii, 28).— Arundel » 
from  del  J  a  valley,  and  Arun^  the  name  of  the 
river  which  runs  through  iL  The  derivation 
of  Arun  is  obscure.  Walden  from  wald,  a 
woodland.  JoHK  Rajx^liffe. 

William  Bkadle  (9**'  8,  i,  288),— As  to  my 
query  at  this  reference  alx^ut  the  identity  of 
Wm.  Beadle,  whose  daughter  Alice  married 
about  1 605  Gabriel  Throckmorton,  of  EI  ling  ton, 
Hunts,  r  have  recently  discovered  that  the 
name  should  l>e  Bedell^  and  that  Wm.  Bedel] 
was  of  iStachden  (Little  Staughton  1%  co.  Bed$, 
and  that  he  had  a  brother  or  son  Edward 
Bedell,  of  Easton,  co.  Hunts,  I  have  noted 
the  additional  correspondence  about  the 
Bedell  family  — viz.,  9^^  S,  ii,  268;  iii,  149, 
298  ;  iv,  75,  but  it  has  not  helped  ro©  to 
identify  Wm,  Bedell  of  Stachden,  I  should 
like  to  communicate  with  Me.  J.  J.  Howard 
(or  a  member  of  his  family),  who  wrote 
the  query  about  Wm.  BedeD  in  '  N,  &  Q.,' 
6^  8.  ii.  8. 

C.  WiCKLIFFK  ThEOOOIOETON. 
3#9,  Broadway,  New  York. 

Rose  and  ZoEzr  Families  (9^  S,  vii.  6S).— 
Six  articles  have  appeared  in  *  N,  &  Q/  re- 
specting W,  Stewart  Rose,  for  wdiich  see 
I't  8.  X.  9  ;  3"^  S.  ii.  251  ;  iv.  290,  345  ;  T^'^  S.  x. 
309,  436.  EVEEARD  HoME  COLEMAN. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

GOSSAGI  OF  SpEATTOK,  NORTHAMPTONSHIRE 

(9^^  B.  vii,  70).— When  I  was  at  Guilaborough 
Grammar  School  in  the  late  aixties,  I  well 
remember  a  boy  namefi  Gossage,  who  hailed 
from  the  village  of  Creaton>  which  \ie^  about 
a  mile  from  Spmtton  in  this  county.  I  hardly 
think  the  family  can  be  extinct^  for  I  under- 
fitand  it  wa«  represented  at  Cre>aton  in  quit© 
recent  years.  Probably  a  letter  addresHecl  to 
the  incumbent  there  would  gain  further  in- 
formation. John  T.  Page. 
West  Huddoti,  Noi'thamptcinAhire. 


Blajikets  (9^  S.  vii,  68),— Blanket  a  name 
haa  ever  been  aj^sociated  with  Bristol,  but 
the  author  of  the  ** Turnover  Pstge"  in  the 
Qlotte  for  29  December,  1900,  ia  incorrect  in 
assuming  that  authentic  write  113  record  that 
blanket^  were  first  made  by  Thomafi  Blanket 
in  Bristol  in  1340.  Records  exist  showing 
that  the  brothers  Blanket— of  whom  John 
appears  to  have  been  the  oldest  of  the  tht^ 
—were  merchante  of  ct^iVX  ^t^A  x^ic^^si^m 


156 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9«^  s.  vil  Feb.  23, 1901. 


Bristol  at  a  still  earlier  dale.  Beyer,  an  old 
and  truat worthy  writer,  aaya  :— 

**Now    an   enteritrismg  burc^cHa   of   Bri^toL.-*». 
began......  to  in  traduce  into   Brisito]  a   new  manu^ 

facturo,  which  eveuiu&liy  gave  him  a  name,  and 

immortalized     hia     fame .TJiomaa,     henceforth  i 

known  as  Thomaa  Qlankot  {blanrkelle,  a  white 
cloth),  set  up  loom»  in  hia  house  .....and  hired 
tre^vers  to  make  a  better  kind  uf  fabric  (i.e.^ 
fiuperjor  to  bluett*  russet- fiildine:^,  and  a  istrir^ed 
cloth  for  flervants,  eaUtd  Bri^t<»I  cot  ton  )*  bleached 
in  the  wool,  eloBe  woven,  almoat  like  felt,  and 
fairly  water  proof-  As  a  matter  of  coursor  thertt 
was  an  outcry  against  this^  the  authorities,  and  the 
wcaVKiu  ill  particular,  not  likhig  to  «e&  foreign  and 
better  skilled  artisans  broniht  into  their  town.  Ho 
the  njayor  and  bajlitfe  levied  a  rate  ui>on  thenj  for 
setting  up  their  machmea.  The  king,  now  ever,  had 
iuoT«  pempicacity  than  they,  and  by  the  following 
Itttter  relieired  the  young  manufaoturora  of  thei 
impolic  r^ic]  burden.  It  Ib  addresaed  to  the  mayor 
and  bailLfTs.  [Here  it  is  given  in  €xtfji^o.]  At  eon- 
■iderable  length  it  decrees  that  no  let  or  hindrance 
la  to  be  Riven  to  '  Thomas  Blanket  and  others,  bur- 

ge^e-s  of  the  said  town  of  Bristol that  they  shall 

ereot  such  machine!^  as  they  like,  and  there  shall  be 
no  hindrance  nor  reproach  {eaittmnia]  gTV(*n  them 
for  thus  doing.'  '* 

From  the  fact  that  this  letter  in  dated 
25  November,  1339,  it  is  evident  that  Blanket 
and  hift  brothers  (named  Kdmund  and  &!  ward 
respectively)  must  ha^e  begun  their  new  trade 
at  least  mme  little  time  before  that  date. 
Blanket  bears*  the  reputation  of  having  been  a 
good  and  pious  (Jliurehman,  He  was  a  great 
benefactor  to  hifi  pari^^h  church  of  St. 
Stephen,  Bristol,  and  fimnded  one  of  the 
seven  chantries  in  it.  He  wa^  buried 
witbin  the  venerable  fabric,  and  in  1886  it 
fell  to  the  lot  of  the  writer  of  thene  lines  to 
place  therein  a  flight  ni era o rial  to  tbe  dis- 
tinguished citizen  in  question. 

That  friend  to  humanity  upon  a  rainy  day, 
tbe  mackintosh,  it  is  to  be  asisumed  de- 
rived  its  name  much  aa  did  the  blanket  A 
story  ha^  been  told  (I  think  by  Punch)  that 
a  certain  member  of  an  ancient  Scotch 
famiJy  journeved  to  London  for  the  fit^t 
time.  Arrived  a.t  hia  hotel,  the  canny  Scot 
got  into  a  dispute  with  hl*^  cabman  over  the 
proverbial  "  saxpence.^'  "  Cabby  "  at  last 
got  so  demonstratively  abunive  that  his  fare 
turned  on  him  indignantly,  exckiaaing,  *'Sir, 
are  you  aware  I  am  The  Mackintoahl  With 
a  withering  look,  Jehu  eyed  the  npeaker  up 
and  down,  and  then  slowly  delivered  bim- 
9 elf  :  **  I  don*t  care  if  you  are  a  bloomirjp 
umbrella;  I  intend  to  have  that  'tanner'!" 
And  he  got  it.  Harry  Hems, 

Fair  Park»  Ejcetor. 

The    word    baa    been    known    since    the 

fourteenth  century.    If  the  article  derived 

Jt^  n^mefrom  the  individual,  then  the  word 


was  precisely  the  same  six  hundred  yean 
ago  as  it  is  now-^a  state  of  things  that  k 
extremely  unlikely.  The  *  H.E.D.'  says, 
*^Tbe  Thomas  Blanket  to  whom  gossip 
attributes  the  origin  of  the  name^  if  he 
really  ex  in  ted  ^  doubtless  took  his  name  from 
the  article.^'  Many  other  authorities  concur. 
ARTnoa  May  ALL. 

Haydn  {*  Dictionary  of  Date^*)  gives  the 
"Thomas  Blanket"  legend,  but  wisely  adds, 
"  Thi^  in  doubtf  ub"  In  'Things  not  Generally 
Known '  (second  neriea),  Timbs  tersely  says, 
without  any  qualification,  ''Blankets  are  so 
calletl  from  their  having  been  first  made  in 
1340,  by  one  Thomas  Blanket,  of  Bristol." 

John  T.  Page. 

West  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 

From  the  information    communicated    to 

*  N.  &  Q.'  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  three 
brothers  named  Blanket  were  engaged  at 
Bristol  about  1340  in  the  manufacture  of 
coarse  woollen  cloths,  for  which  the  city  was 
then  famous.  The  subject  has  been  fully 
discussed  in  *N.  6i  Q.,^  and  if  your  corre- 
spondent is  interested  in  tiie  matter,  he  is 
referred  to  3"»  S.  ii.  318,  359,  308  ;  iii,  177,  S33, 

EvEEABD  Home  Oolemak. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Lanooagb  to  conceal  Thoi^oht  (9*^  S.  vi. 
36B,  432,  476 ;  vii  57).— The  quotation  from 
South  will  be  found  in  the  first  volume  of  his 

*  Sermons  preached  on  Several  Occasion^/ 
edition  in  7  vols.,  Oxford,  1823,  p.  234.  It 
wan  preached  at  Westminster  Abbey,  30  April, 
1676.  G.  H    Thompson. 

Alnwick. 

J.  M.  W.  Turner  (9^  S,  vii.  48).— I  aim 
nnablti  to  answer  Mr.  Page's  query,  but  T 
think  I  can  usefully  add  to  it.  Hamerton 
says:  "Turners  first  picture  was  exhibited 
in  1787,  he  being  then  twelve  years  old.  The 
subject  of  this  picture  wa«f  Dover  Castle." 
On  referring  to  the  Koyai  Academy  cata- 
logue for  thatyear*  I  find  W.  Turner,  '*  at  Mr. 
G.  Turner's,  Waltham'Stow,'*  contributed  two 
drawings ;  No.  471,  *  Dover  Castle,'  and 
No.  601,  "View  of  Wanstaad  house,  the  seat 
of  Sir  James  Tin  ley  Long."  In  the  two 
following  years  no  person  named  Turner 
exhibited,  hut  in  1790  J.  W.  Turner,  of 
Maiden  Lane,  Covent  Garden,  was  repre- 
sented by  No.  644,  *View  of  the  Archbishop's 
Palace,  Lambeth,'  and  there  was  also  a  picture 
by  G.  Turner,  No.  S4,  *  Charing  Cman.'  Next 
year  the  latter  became  B.  Turner  and  the 
former  W.  Turner,  under  which  style  he  con- 
tinued to  exhibit  annually  until  and  tuclad- 
^  iu^  1301,  although  be  had  become  an  Abso- 


»*  8.  VIL  Feb.  23. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES 


157 


ciAte   in   1799.     In    1802    he   blossomed    out 
suddenly  and  splendidlv  as  Joseph  Mallord 
WO  Hani  Turner,  Eftq,,  K.A.,  and  m  he  con- 
tinued   to    the    end    of    the  clmptar.     My 
ftdditional    query    ih    this:    What    evidenc^, 
have  we  that  tne  W.  Turner  of  1787  was 
identical   with  the   J.    W.    Turner   of  1790 
knd  the  W.  Turner  of  following   years?    I 
hesitate  to  disjient  from  a   writer  so  care- 
ful a^  Haroerton,  but  Turner'?*  age  at   the 
time,  the  address  given,  and   the  lapse  of 
two  years   before  hia  name  (with   the  right 
iddresi)    appeared    in    the  Eoyal  Academy 
catalogue,  make  one  scepticai    The  diction- 
aries of    Graves    and    Bryan    both  confirm 
my  view.    I    should    add    that  among  the 
vinous  Turners  who  exhibited  towards  the 
cloae  of  the  eighteenth  century  there  was 
another  W.  Turner,   who  in  17Q2  dwelt  at 
No.  129,  Shoreditch,    G.  Turner  was  a  fre- 
^aent  exhibitor,         K  Rimbaolt  Dibdin. 

**To  palmer"  (B^  S.  vi.  470 ;  vii.  52).^PRor, 
SlEAt^s  appropriate  reference  to  the  prophet 
Joel's  mention  of  the  palmer- worm  called  to 
©y  mind  what  Izaak  Walton  says  in  the 
^me  conoexian  :— 
**liKaUtell  you  whht  A[drovaudua...atid  othera 

f*y  t^f  the  Pftl  m«r- worm  or  Caterpillar tha?.  thia 

^  caileti  &  nilgrim  or  fialmer  worm,  for  hii  very 
JiMideriDg  life  and  varioiiJi  food;  not  contentiof; 
Jimielf,  aa  othert  do,  with  any  one  certain  nlace  for 

aii  ^bofie^  nor  any  eertain  kind,. of  fet^din^,  but 

*in  btjLdty  »xid  disorderly  wander  up  and  downi 
*fld  nflt  endure  to  be  kept  to  a  diet,  or  fixed  to  a 
Pftrticalar  pLa45e/* 

By  the  light,  at  any  rate,  of  this  descrip- 
tion, the  mining  of  the  word  "palmer"  is 
rendered  plain.  Douglas  Owen. 

*'Lirr  THEM  ALL  COME  "  (Q^  S.  vi,  426  ;  vii- 
351— An  earlier  anticipation  of  thijj  than 
ttther  of  the  instanc&n  pointed  out  by  Me, 
Alpiid  R  Robsiks  is  to  be  found  in  the 
fillet  *Let  'am  Cbme'  by  Charles  Dibdin  the 
yoonger,  in  which  a  Britinh  soldier  and  sailor 
eipr^i  a  desire  for  inva^iionj  exclaiming  :  — 
Let  em  comet  if  restjlv'd  to  nttack  ; 
The  bat  wav  to  eonie  they  their  brain  a  need  n*t  rack ; 
loey 'd  tnucD  better  stUffy  the  way  to  get  hack  J 

^t  'm  come,  let  'em  oome ;  we  their  force  [forcea  ?1 

Tk  ^^~: 

^"*3)  Etdke  Imnds,  for  together  we^ll  conquer  or 
die. 

K   RlJffBADLT  DlBDrtC. 

The  origin  of  this  London  catch -phrase, 
which  was  especially  rampant  during  the 
»Jter  part  of  1898,  can  hardly  be  saiH  to  date 
*^in  the  instances  given  bv  Mr.  Robbius, 
^ of  which  is  "Let  them  all  come  on,"  and 
*w  tether  "I^t  them   (xsme^'*  wifcbotifc    tiie 


"alU"  whereas  the  invariable  form,  if  one 
remembers  rightly,  was  "  Let  'em  all  come," 
It  in  said  to  have  originated  at  a  London 
music- hall  J  and  alno  from  being  the  motto  of 
a  Hammersmith  (Ud.)  "Toilet  Cluk" 

J.  HoLDEN  MacMiciiabx*. 

Brasenosk  College,  Oxfobd  (d^B.  vi.  509  ; 
vii.  92).  -  In  the  account  of  B  rase  nose  Uolle^ 
given  by  James  Ingram  in  vol  ii.  of  his 
VMemoriala  of  Oxford  '  (Oxford,  1837)  is  the 
following:-^ 

**  William  Smyths  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  with  whom 
the  design  of  founding  this^  coUege  Aeems  to  have 
originated,  was  the  fourth  son  of  Koliert  ^myth  of 
Peel  house,  in  Wfdne«ta  [*icj,  a  townahip  in  the 
pariah  of  Prewrot,  in  the  county  paktine  of  Lan- 
caster. Of  the  precia«  time  of  his  oirth  and  other 
early  fiarticulars,  nut  with  standing  the  patient  and 
jierseverinK  researches  of  Mi\  Churton,  no  rsertain 
mformation  haa  heen  obtained-  nor  after  much 
discussion  is  it  known,  from  the  number  of  peraona 
of  buth  hiB  names,  at  what  college,  or  callef^ei, 
either  in  Oxford  or  Cambridge,  he  prosecuted  hia 
atudiea.  VVe  find  him*  however,  a  bachelor  of  law 
at  hia  institution  to  the  reetorv  of  Cheahunt,  in 
Hertford  ah  ire»  June  14,  H92  ...Jn  the  beginning  of 
the  year  15fB  be  acema  to  have  adjusterl  his  plan  of 
rebuilding  Brazenui^e  hall,  and  enduwing  it  aa  a 
college,  with  the  aftai^itanue  of  Sir  RiLhard  Sutton.'* 

A  foot-note  says  :  — 

"The  charter   is    dated  Jan.  15,  ti   Hen.  YIIL 
(1511-12).    8ee  a  tiescnption  of  it  in  Mr.  Churton'i 
work,  p.  292.     There  are  copies  of  it  in  the  BolLa^ 
chafH^U  in  Rymer,  and  in  Yate.^* 
As  to  Smyth's  death,  will,  Ac,  Ingram  says: 

**The  will  of  Bi  a  hop  Smyth  ia  dated  W  Dee,, 
1513>  and  the  probate  Issued  on  the  laat  day  oi 
January  following.  He  died  on  the  2nd  of  that 
month,  at  Buekden,  according  to  Mr  Churton  ;  but 
was  boned  in  the  n&ve  of  his  cathedral  at  Lincoln, 
near  the  west  end," 

A  foot-note  says  : — 

**  Browne  Willis  says  that  bishofi  Hrnytb,  as  well 
as  Atwater  and  Lon^land,  died  at  the  episeapal 
palace  at  Wohurn.  vkia  '  Survey  r>f  Gathedrala,* 
p,  G2,  Lonl,  1730." 

ROBEET   PlEBPOINT. 

"Lanted  ale*'  (0^  H.  vi,  367,  411,  493; 
vii.  75}.—  May  I  be  allowed  to  add  that  I  was 
once  told  by  a  monthly  nur^e  that  if  ladies 
were  "to  follow  the  custom  alluded  to  their 
handi  would  alwava  be  soft  and  white,  and 
they  would  never  lie  troubled  with  chapped 
fingers  or  chilblains  1  M*  B. 

I  have  not  read  Eourke^  *8catologtc 
Rites/  but  he  can  hardly  have  told  there 
what  may  surprise  some  readers,  that  a 
strong  trace  oi  the  widely  diffused  urine 
superstition  (of  which  the  discovery  of  phos- 
phorus wai3  one  result)  existed  in  the  heart 
of  New  England  forty  jea-ta  ^%^.  axvd  \^ 
perhaps,  aot  extmct  >'et,   In  m^  tvaX\Nt^  X^^tx 


158 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»*  s.  vii.  feb.  23,  looi. 


in  Connecticut  it  was  a  general  custom  to 
administer  doses  of  urine  ti»  new-born  babies, 
partly  to  "clear  out  the  syfttera/'  but  in  part 
with  a  vague  idea  of  communicating  the 
traits  of  the  voider  of  the  urine  to  the  small 
victim,  as  it*  shown  by  ftlwayij  selecting 
another  child*s  urine,  and  that  a  apeciallv 
vigorous  or  promi'^ing  child.  I  myseff 
furnished  some  for  thin  purpone  when  a*  l>oy 
of  eight  or  nine,  on  the  express  grouncl  (bm 
explained  by  my  mother)  that  1  was  the 
intellectual  prodigy  of  the  town.  I  regret  to 
aay  that  on  this  banii?,  judging  from  the 
outcome,  the  poor  infant  cannot  have  been 
much  benefited.  Of  course  professional 
nurses  were  unknown  in  this  country  village, 
neighbour  women  fulfilling  the  function.  So 
the  old  women,  those  Btubb<jrn  conservators 
of  raiHty  superstition,  had  unchecked  power 
of  perpetuating  the  traditional  idea.  F.  M. 
Hiirtford,  Connecticut 

Dn  Owen,  in  his  *  Sanctorale  Catbolicum/ 
speaking  of  St.  Ivo,  after  whom  8t  Fvea  in 
Huntingdonshire  is  named,  remarks  :  "  Bale 
gloats  over  the  scandal  that '  Saint  Ive's  water 
wan  in  these  dayes  [about  1012]  very  wholwom 
for  the  f e  m  y  n  y  n  e  ge  n  de  r/  '*  Many  pi  as  tere  rs, 
all  the  world  through,  wash  their  hands 
res^ularly  in  urine  to  keep  them  fmra  cracking. 
Urine  into  which  a  hot  cinder  has  been 
dropped  is  commonly  believed  to  be  a  sure 
cure  for  obstinate  cases  of  ringworm. 

Habey  Hfm3. 
[Tbia  subject  will  now  be  dropped.! 

Ralegh's    Signature    (9^    S, 


tail  of  a  GATt.  This  abominable  aud  common 
punishment  was  abolithed  soniewhens  about  the 
year  1820,  and  since  that  tima  none  have  been 
flogK^d  save  those  who  richly  d^aened  iL'' 

Much  information  regard  ingthis  cruel  cub  torn 
is  containe<l   in   *  Bygone   Punishmentst/  by 
William  Andrews.    ^       Cbas.  H.  CboucH. 
Nightiogalo  Lane,  W&nstead. 


7).- 


Although  Sir  Walter  wrote  Ralegh,  his 
descendants  aoon  changed  the  mode  of 
spelling  their  name  to  Raleigh,  The  title- 
page  or  a  book  in  my  poase^sion  reads  i — 

'*  An  Abridziijent  of  8ir  Walter  lUlejgh^i  Hiatory 
of  the  World,  hrs  Premonition  to  Princes,  also 
some  Genuine  Re  main  a  of  that  Learned  Knighl, 
Published  by  Phihj>  Raleiah,  E*quire,  the  only 
Urand-Son  to  Sir  Walter.  To  which  m  added  An 
Account  of  the  Aathor'*(  Life,  Try^.  und  Death. 
London,  Printed  by  W,  Onley,  for  Ralph  Smith, 
at  the  Bible  under  the  Piazza  of  the  Hoyal  Ex- 
change in  Cornhilh  mocgel" 
Facing  the  title-page  in  a  half-length  portrait 
of  Sir  Walter  in  an  oval»  the  border  of  which 
reads,  "The  Effigies  of  the  Honorable  and 
Le^rnod  Knight  S^  Walter  Ralegh,'*  In  all 
other  places  in  the  book  the  name  i8  given 
Raleigli.  B.  B. 

Floocing  at  the  Caht  Tail  (9^''  S.  vii.  28). 
— The  following  note  from  the  M/me^  Weekly 
Timei  of  20  Augutit,  1897^  may  be  interesting : 

**  It  is  staled  thai  the  death  has  ooi  ancd  i;;  E^«a 
of  a  maa  named  Cowell,  who  boasted  that  he  was 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  An. 

OeUk  Folk-lore. :  WtM  and  ifaiiar.    By  John  Bhy«, 
M.A.,  D,Litt,,  &c.     2  tola.    (Oxford,  Clarendon 
Presa.) 
A  MONO  the  Westero  and  Northern  Oeltfi,  naturally 
the  i&teat  to  come  und&r  the  influence  of   L&lin 
dviUzAtion,  trftdittons  and  superatltion  hnger  long. 
How  much  the  folk-lore  of  W  a.lm  and  Ireland,  the 
SeoUiah  iaknds,  Britlanj^,  Com  wail,  and  the  Iile 
of    Man  haa    in    conimoti    in  well    known   to  the 
fliudont.     One  of  the  most  indefatigable  and  en- 
liKhteaed  of  fotk4oruita,   the  Prluclml  of  Ji^ufi, 
who  ia  aUo  the  Profe^wir  of  Celtiu  in  the  Univeraity 
of  Osrford  and  the  author  of  onmeroua  books  fin 
Webh  Hiibje<;t»»  whli^h  have  won  much  recogoitioQ 
and  provoked  some  hoetiBty*  has  collected  during 
the  pa«t  thirty  years  eo  much  of  Welsh  folklore 
as  the  i^ieojile  poBaesfied  and  were  willmff  to  im[>art. 
Hifl  ambition  wa«  to  produce,  if  poaajble^  a  work 
annlogons  to  Campbeira  *  Poptikr  Tale*  of  the  V\' eat 
Hi«hland».'    The  exec  at  ion  of  the  scheme  haa  been 
tedious  and  difficult.     From  the  mouthfl  of   his 
fellow -conn  try  men  he  could  extract  plenty  of  scraps 
of  fitories,  hut  very  few  single  atonoe  of  any  lenpio, 
and  yearft  were  occupied  in  fitting  his  aeouisiUont 
into  their  proper  context.     His  roaearcheii  were 
undertaken  later  than  waa  desirable,  and  il  ia  only 
in  the  more  diatlDclly  WeUh    count iea,   auch  aa 
Uamarvoni  that  they  have  been  productive.    When 
a  Bchootmaater  in  Aiigle^ey  he  had  himself  oppor- 
tnnitiea  for  noting  things  of  interest ;  he  grew  up 
under  the  influencee  around  him  without     having 
ac(iuir**d  the  habit  of  observing  anything^  except 
the  Habbatht"  and  he  can  only  hope  that,  now-  that 
"  the  baleful  influence  of  Robert  Lowe  has  g^ven 
way  to  a  more  euHghtened  aystem  of  public  instruc- 
tion/^ hia  fiuecesBora  will  do  better.    Such  stories 
as  he  has  collected  are,  however,  of  distinct  value, 
and  by  their  aid,  and  that  of  his  own  comments, 
we  are  able  to  link  Welsh  aunerstitione  concerning 
fairy-lore  with  those   prevalent    in    other    Celtic 
criuntries^-    Fairies  In  Wales,   it  must  be  remem- 
bered, are  almost  invariabljr  lake- dwellers,   and 
have  something  in  common  with  njermaid*.    Their 
homes  are  generally  near  slreama  or  the  lak^n  with 
which  Wale^  is  aoundantly  provided.    It  is  from 
the  lake  that  the  hardly  won  bride— not  insensible 
to  human  wooin^%  hut  more  an  x  ion  a,  it  appears,  to 
remain  aA  a  hiiiidmaiden  than  as  a  in istresa— draws 
the  flock]^  and  herds  of  marvellous  worth  that  make 
her  spouse  a  ^lort  of  pastoral  millionaire ;  and  it  is 
to  the  lake  she  retreat«  when,  by  misadventure 
and  not  hy  design,  he  hits  her  with  iroji,  a  i  irvum- 
atsnce  which,  she  haa  always  told  him,  will  drive 
her  away  with  her  herds  and   their   ddsceDdaots 
con  St  i  tu  t  i  n^  his  weal  t  h ,    1 1  in  almost  alwa^  in  the 

ciiat;cfcvoUi   of    iLt)   hu«b^k3icl   tO   ihroVV  ^   bsidl^^  wVOT 

a  horse  that  the  bit  strikes  his  wife.    She  does  not 


^Iie  last  w4ividu&I  to  he  |)ublicly  whipped  9,X»  the  \  '\uNan».>Q\.^  Vmsix  miLioe^  ood  sometimee  looks  «ft«r 


i»»8.vilfkb.23,i9oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


159 


and  provides  for  her  children,  but  the  divorce  is 
final.   The  cause  of  the  fairies'  dislike  of  iron  would 
be  curious  to  trace.     For  their  objection  to  the 
knowledge  of  their  name  being  communicated  some 
explanation  is  afforded.     It  is   strange  that  the 
name  should  not  seldom  be  P^nelop,  so  spelt  and 
BO  pronounced.    In  innumerable  points  what  is  told 
concerning  them  corresponds  with  what  is  gener- 
ally known.    The  manner  in  which  to  detect  and 
get  rid  of  a  fairy  changeling  is  the  same  over  most 
parts  of  Britain,  and  the  readiness  of  the  ''  fair  folk  " 
to  reward  cleanliness  and  punish  sluttishness  is 
the  same  as  it  was  in  the  time  of  Shakespeare. 
As  a  rule,  in  Wales  fairies  are  not  malevolent  and 
scarcely  mischievous.      We   seldom    hear   of   any 
aliempt  to 
Mislead  night-wanderers,  laughing  at  their  harm, 

or  other  forms  of  elfin  persecution.  Different  ideas 
prevail  concerning  their  language  (though  they 
Knerally  speak  that  of  the  neighbourhood),  their 
food,  or  their  stature,  since,  though  sometimes  they 
are  scarcely  bigger  than  guinea-pigs,  yet  at  others 
they  marry  mortals  and  have  lull-sized  children. 
As  to  the  animal  shapes  taken  occasionally  in 
Wales,  as  in  other  countries,  much  is  said ;  and 
there  is  a  Manx  monster,  the  Lioar  Manninagh, 
who  iDdulges  in  a  culpable  taste  for  the  Manx 
women.  We  have  marked  for  comment  scores  of 
particulars,  but  have  no  space  to  deal  with  such 
nuittcrs.  As  a  collection  of  folk-lore  stories  the 
volume  has  abundant  interest,  and  the  information 
OQ  subjects  such  as  the  folk-lore  of  wells,  fairy 
vavs  and  words,  and  the  like,  has  great  literary 
Ma  scientific  value.  A  knowledge,  indeed,  of  the 
work  will  be  of  service  to  all  who  study  English 
literature  from  the  time  of  Chaucer  to  that  of 
^jiakeapeare  and  Beaumont  and  on  to  Herrick, 
Sir  John  Mennis,  and  the  Duchess  of  Newcastle. 

Conodo  wider  British  Rule,  1760-1900.  By  Sir 
John  6.  Bourinot,  K.C.M.G.  (Cambridge,  Uni- 
versity Press.) 
^^  volume  of  Sir  John  George  Bourinot  is  one  of 
the  beet  4.nd  the  most  serviceable  of  the  **  Cam- 
widgfi  Historical  Series"  to  which  it  belongs. 
9^rk  EiQoe  1880  of  the  House  of  Commons  of 
(^da,  and  ex-president  and  honorary  secretary 
^  ttie  Royikl  Society  of  Canada,  Sir  John  has 
{Jpawiy  contributed  to  the  same  series  'The 
|>uldert  of  Nova  Scotia,'  and  to  the  "  Story  of  the 
^^Esoni^  leriee  *  Canada,'  together  witn  other 
*«jrb  dealing  with  British  North  America.  A 
^esoendant,  as  we  presume  from  his  name,  of  the 
'reach  colonizers  of  the  country,  and  a  member, 
as  We  gather,  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church, 
he  oomes  of  a  family  that  has  participated  in  the 
makiog  of  the  history  he  narrates,  and  is  able 
^  speak  of  the  influence  of  wise  legislation  in 
^^DQuering  racial  difficulties.  An  introduction 
deaU  with  the  French  discovery  and  settlement  of 
^'Mada,  until,  in  1763,  the  Treaty  of  Paris  **  closed 
1^0  interesting  chapter  of  French  dominion  on  the 
iMois  of  the  St.  Lawrence  and  in  the  valleys  of 
{Je  Ohio  and  the  Mississippi.*'  The  foundation  of 
l^fax  put  an  end  to  the  Acadian  period  of  Nova 
^tian  settlement.  Then  followed  the  passage  of 
the  Quebec  Act,  allowing  the  free  exercise  of  the 
Oatbolic  religion— one  of  the  first  of  the  wise 
"Maaores  wiudi,  while  we  have  lost  and  been  at 
Wwith  the  Amerioan  colonies,  have  made  Canada 
<ne  of  iho  moet  loyal  portiona  oi  the  Empire.    A 


deeply  interesting  chapter  is,  naturallv,  that  which 
tells  of  the  settlement  in  Canada  of  the  United 
Empire  Loyalists.  Most  interesting  of  all  is  the 
description  of  the  processes  which  resulted  in  con- 
federation. With  tnese  things  the  average  Fnglish- 
man  is  unfamiliar,  and  a  perusal  of  this  volume 
will  enlarge  the  intellectual  horizon  of  most 
readers.  1  here  are  few  pages  in  our  history  more 
honourable  and  satisfactory  than  those  which  tell 
of  our  conquest  of  the  sympathies  and,  we  may 
add,  the  afiections  of  a  people  alien  in  birth  and 
different  in  religion.  Mistakes  have  been  made, 
and  the  colony  has  more  than  once  been  imperilled 
by  obstinate  councillors  and  incompetent  generals, 
the  supply  of  whom  seems  inexhaustible.  hHr  John's 
record  is  wholly  satisfactory,  and  he  is  able  to  end 
it  in  a  blaze  of  triumph  with  the  account  of  the 
share  of  Canadian  troops  in  our  South  African 
struggle. 

Madagascar.  Maurititu,  and  the  other  Ea^t  African 
Islands.  By  Prof.  D.  C.  Keller.  (Sonnenschein 
&Co.) 
A  DOZEN  years  ago  Prof.  Keller,  a  devotee  of  natural 
science,  visited  the  Sevchelles,  the  Mascarenes,  and 
Mauritius.  The  result  of  his  observations  is  now 
included  in  a  book  which,  apart  from  its  more 
serious  pretensions,  forms  an  excellent  and  trust- 
worthy guide  to  the  £ast  African  archipelago.  He 
has  been  indebted  to  the  labours  of^M.  Alfred 
Grandidier.  whose  monumental  work  on  Madagascar 
obtains  full  recognition  at  his  hand.  We  are 
assured  by  the  translator  that  no  work  is  in 
existence  which  gives  so  complete  and  trustworthy 
an  account  of  the  islands  studding  the  ocean  to  the 
east  and  south-east  of  Africa.  This  estimate  we 
are  prepared  to  accept.  In  geological,  botanical, 
zoological,  and  ethnological  respects  the  book  seems 
all  that  can  be  desired.  It  is  illustrated  by  coloured 
maps  and  very  numerous  illustrations,  some  of  them 
from  photographs  by  the  author,  others—and  these 
the  beat— from  the  iJerue  04n4rcdt  dea  Sciences. 
Some  photographs  by  other  travellers  have  also 
been  turned  to  account.  In  dealius;  with  the  his- 
tory of  Madagascar  the  author  is  influenced  by  the 
anti-English  sentiment  which  we  have  learnt  to 
expect  from  books  of  German  provenance.  That 
English  missionaries  were  responsible  for  the 
murder  of  King  Radama  II.,  which  is  more  than 
hinted,  we  are  not  prepared  to  believe.  That  our 
Government,  after  leading  the  inhabitants  to  con- 
fide in  it,  was  false  to  its  trust,  and  declined 
to  stir  a  finger  in  their  behalf,  is  more  easily  to 
be  credited.  So  distinct  an  animus  is  shown  by 
our  author  that  we  should  decline  to  take  anything 
on  his  warranty.  His  book  contains  much  that  is 
interesting  to  the  folk-lorist,  and  gives  curious  infor- 
mation concerning  matters  such  as  "Blood  Brother- 
hood" and  "Fady,"  which  is  the  native  name  for 
taboo.  Civilization  seems  to  have  exercised  an 
unsatisfactory  influence  upon  the  Hovas,  who  have 
begun,  like  tne  Japs,  to  substitute  English  attire 
for  native  dress.  We  sympathize  with  the 
Malagasy  rather  than  Prof.  Keller  when,  with 
naive  and  unconscious  self-revelation,  he  says, 
d  propos  of  tal}00t  "  When  I  was  going  to  shoot 
the  great  lemur  (Indris),  called  by  the  Malagasy 
hdbakotay  my  guide  seized  my  weapon  with  the 
cry,  '  Fady.'  And  when  in  spite  of  this  I  brought 
the  animal  down  [!],  all  hoapitaA\Vj  .vo.  \>aft  n-^ibiJ^ 
where  I  lived  was  withdrvwii  itoift  ni^.^'  V:,aii«ABt- 
ing  the  inherent  waiitoiiiieaa  ol  Wi^  «a\i  «:cA  n>cl^ 


160 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [jj*  a  vn.  Feb.  23,1901. 


fact  that  the  beast  is  held  sacred  as  being  the  abode 
of  the  spirits  of  their  ancestors,  and  also  as  the 
progenitor  of  the  Malagasy  race,  the  punishment 
did  not  err  on  the  side  of  severity.  The  views  of 
tropical  scenery  are  excellent.  There  are  also  some 
striking  portraits  of  native  women. 

Napoleon's  captivity  is  the  subiect  in  the  Quar- 
terly Review  for  January  of  an  article  which  has  been 
no  doubt  suggested  by  Lord  Rosebery;'s  striking 
book.  It  does  not  contain  much  that  is  new,  but 
Napoleonic  literature  has  become  so  vast,  and  is 
growing  so  rapidly,  that  we  are  grateful  to  a  com- 
petent person  like  the  present  writer  for  giving 
within  the  limits  of  a  few  pages  the  results  of 
careful  study  of  the  authonties.  We  rarely 
find  Crabbe  held  up  for  admiration  in  these 
days,  and  are  therefore  glad  to  have  an  estimate 
of  the  man  and  his  work  oy  one  who  is  in  general 
sympathy  with  both.  To  us,  much  of  Crabbe  s  verse 
is  painful  reading,  and  here  and  there  we  come 
upon  passages  of  commonplace  quite  unworthy  of 
him,  but  he  is  rarely  dull  in  the  ordinary  sense  of 
the  word.  All  he  wrote  was,  we  imagine,  with  the 
purpose  of  pointing  out  that  much  of  the  sorrow  of 
the  world  might  be  avoided  by  a  steadfast  clinging 
to  moral  order.  Poetry,  we  are  well  aware,  should 
not  be  a  sermon  in  disguise,  but  one  cannot  but 
have  a  certain  reverence  and  liking  for  one  who 
used  such  faculty  as  he  had  on  the  side  of  justice. 

*  Virgil  and  Tennyson :  a  Literary  Parallel,  shows 

Eeat  familiaritv  with  both  the  earlier  and  the 
ter  bard,  and  orings  out  in  a  way  we  have  never 
seen  done  before  some  very  striking  similarities. 
Tennyson  knew  his  Virgil  well,  but  there  is  no 
reason  to  suppose  he  ever  consciously  imitated  him  ; 
for  to  be  like  Viq^il  in  careful  preparation  and  self- 
restraint  is  not  imitation.  The  paper  on  *  Michelet 
as  an  Historian'  gives  the  great  Frenchman  a 
higher  place  than  we  can  concede  to  him.  As  to  his 
style.  It  is  not  likely  that  its  merits  will  be 
exaggerated.  He  was  also  an  incessant  student, 
but  the  inferences  he  drew  were  constantly  markea 
by  political  and  religious  partisanship  unworthy  of 
a  serious  historian.  There  are  appreciative  papers 
on  Prof.  Huxley  and  the  Amir  of  Afghanistan,  both 
of  which  will  repay  careful  reading. 

The  Edinburgh  Review  for  January  is  somewhat 
heavy,  but  nearly  everything  in  it  is  worthy  of 
attention.  The  paper  on  *  Cicero '  shows  remark- 
able acquaintance  with  the  literature  of  the  subject. 
The  wnter  takes  a  more  kindly  view  of  the  orator's 
personal  character  than  we  can  consent  to  do,  but 
It  must  ever  be  borne  in  mind  that  in  estimating 
the  men  who  flourished  when  the  Roman  Republic 
was  in  its  death  agony  great  allowances  have  to  be 
made.  Mommsen^  estimate,  to  which  the  present 
writer  draws  attention^  is,  we  believe,  on  the  whole 
unprejudiced.  Had  Cicero  not  written  works  on 
philosophy  and  used  forms  of  rhetoric  which  will 
always  be  attractive  to  certain  minds,  we  may 
safely  assume  he  would  now  have  suggested  little 
except  to  a  few  specialists.  '  The  Early  History  of 
Foxhunting '  is  by  some  one  who  is  master  of  the 
literature  of  the  subject.  It  seems  that  there  are  at 
the  present  time  about  300  packs  of  hounds  kept 
for  this  sport.  The  writer  hesitates  to  make 
any  estimate  of  the  money  directly  and  indirectly 
expended  on  this  amusement.  We  have  heard  it 
reckoned   at   upwards   of   a    million  and  a  half. 

*  Velazquez'  contains  a  highly  compressed  body 
of  jnlormaktiou,  but  is  too  full  of  dry  detail  to 


interest  the  ordinary  reader.  The  literature  re- 
lating to  Cromwell  grows  so  rapidly  that  those 
reviewers  who  have  anything  to  say  find  no 
little  difficulty  in  keeping  up  with  it.  We  have 
here  what  seems  to  be  a  fair  estimate  of  Mr. 
Morley's  recent  book.  It  must  be  remembered, 
however,  that  it  is  the  production  of  a  politician, 
not  of  an  historian.  *  Fiction  and  Politics'  deals 
with  the  political  novel,  and  we  have  also  a  well- 
written  article  on  the  sad  fate  of  the  wife  of 
George  I.  As  we  have  not  examined  personally 
the  documents  at  Lund  which  are  assumed  to  prove 
her  guilt,  we  are  not  in  a  position  to  controvert  the 
conclusion  here  arrived  at. 

Man :  a  Monthly  Record  of  Anthropological  Science, 
—The  second  part  of  the  new  anthropological  pub- 
lication is  an  advance  upon  the  first.  One  ot  the 
most  interesting  communications  is  that  by  Mr. 
A.  L.  Lewis,  a  Treasurer  of  the  Anthropological 
Institute,  *0n  the  Damage  recently  sustainea  by 
iStonehenge.'  It  is  illustrated  by  desig^ns  show- 
ing the  results  of  the  fall  in  January,  1797,  and 
those  of  that  at  the  end  of  the  last  century.  The 
necessity  of  underpinning  the  stones  and  taking 
other  methods  for  tneir  preservation  is  insisted  on. 
Mr.  C.  H.  Read,  F.S.A.,  President  of  the  ArchsBO- 
logical  Institute,  sends  an  account  of  *  Relics  from 
Chinese  Tombs,'  which  also  is  illustrated.  The 
Oxford  Boden  Professor  pays  a  tribute  to  Max 
Miiller.  Important  contributions  are  also  supplied 
by  Mr.  Sidney  Hartland,  F.S.A. 

Messrs.  Pickering  k  Chatto  have  issued  three 
opening  parts  of  an  illustrated  catalogue  of  rare  and 
curious  i)lays,  which  seems  likely,  when  complete, 
to  be  an  interesting  bibliographical  possession. 


We  must  call  special  attention  to  the  following 
notices  :— 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  name 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub- 
lication, but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Wb  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately. 

To  secure  insertion  of  communications  corre- 
spondents must  observe  the  following  rules.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answer- 
ing queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previous 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exact 
heading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repeat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  seoond  com- 
munication *'  Duplicate." 

Errata. —P.  134,  coL  2,  1.  22  from  bottom,  for 
'*Mask"  read  Black.  In  the  Index  to  the  last 
volume  (p.  547)  **Southey  (Thomas)"  should  be 
Southey  {Robert), 

IVOT/CE. 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addressed  to 
"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries '  "—Advertise- 
ments and  Business  Letters  to  **The  Publisher "— 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Laoe,  £.0. 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  deoUne  to  return 
oommunicationB  which,  for  any  reason,  we  do  not 
print ;  and  to  this  mle  we  oan  make  no  ezoeption. 


fl»8.viLito.23,i90i.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBPARTMBNT 

THE  JPOLLOWnrG 

MAOAZmBS  AND  TTDPAPV     PriDTIPC  WITHDRAWN  PROM 

KBVIRWS.  LllDRiXMXl     vUlTlJSlO  OIROULATION. 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 


Until  further  notice  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


AfKOly 

BlMkwood't      

Cmtory 

CoQiemporary  Review 

OornbUl 

iDglub  lUnttrated    ... 

maighUy  Review  ... 


unvM 

$.    d. 

«.  d. 

7    6 

Longman's       

6    0 

13    0 

Maomillan's      

7    6 

10    6 

National  Review        

15    0 

16    0 

Nineteenth  Century 

16    0 

7    6 

Pall  Mall          

8    6 

6    0 

Revue  dea  Deux  Mondet     ... 

30    0 

16    0 

Soribner't          

7    6 

9    0 

Temple  Bar      

7    6 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
7    6 1  Quarterly  


7    6 


The  terms  will  be  It,  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Subscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalls  to 
ha?e  the  Magaanes  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCB,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  than 
TWkLYB  months.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAY  COMMENCE  AT  ANT  DATE. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  8TBAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  ike  Bailway  Bookitallt,  to  which  placet  they  will  be  forwarded  earriage  free. 


THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED. 


Pnblished    Offered 


dlTURT  MAOAZINB.  The.    Vols.  17,  30.  and  23      

A7AUNTA  MAGAZINE.    Vol.6     

WIDOH  BOCIBTY.    3  i^oli.  for  1891         

3  voU.  for  1893         

CASSILL'S  MAOAZINK.    Vol.  for  December,  189li,  to  May,  1H99. 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated 


each 


$.    d. 

8    6 


Illustrated . 


OHAMBBRS'S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURK.  SCIBNCB.  and  ARTS. 

Voi.  for  1896 

— Vol.  for  1896 

— Vol.  for  1897 

Vol.  for  1898 

— Vol.  for  1899 

QmVBI  VOLUMM.    November.  1897.  to  April.  1898 

November,  1898,  to  April,  1899 

— May  to  October.  1899  

MOD  WORDS.    VoU.  for  1888, 1892,  1894. 1895, 1896, 1897,  and  1898         

■VIBAI  MAaAZUIB.    Vols,  for  1889.  1893,  1894, 1895, 1896,  and  1898      


Vol.  for  1893... 


«.  d. 

3   e 


W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 
lad  at  OfW  600  Railway  Bookstalls,  to  which  placet  Subscribers  can  be  transferred,  free  of  charge. 
I  </  Temu,  4«.,  amafruupon  appUeation  to  186,  HTJiAND,  LONDON, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [«>««•  8.vilf».  23,  iwl 
A   SELECTION    FROM 

SMITH,  ELDER^&^O/SJJBRARY  BOOKS. 

«'A  'DICTIONARY  OF  NATIONAL  BIOGRAPHY'  OF  WHICH  THB  COUNTRY  MAY  BE 
JUSTLY  ?B,OVD."— Quarterly  Review, 

'•ABSOLUTELY  INDISPENSABLE  TO  EVERY  WELL-FURNISHED  LI BRARY."— r»m«f . 

DICTIONARY   OF   NATIONAL   BIOGRAPHY. 

Edited  by  LESLIE  STEPHEN  and  SIDNEY  LEE. 

In  63  vols.  15«.  each  net  in  cloth ;  or  in  half-morocco,  with  marbled  edges,  20«.  net. 

NOTB.-The  DICTIONABT  of  NATIONAIi  BIOOBAFHY  ia  also  suppHed  upon  the  system 

of  payment  by  instalments.    Full  partioulars  upon  application. 

ROBERT  BROWNING'S  COMPLETE  WORKS.    Cheaper  Edition.    Edited 

and  Annotated  by  AUQUSTINB  BIRRKLL,  K.C.  M.P..  and  FKKDKRIO  G.  KBNYON.    2  voU.  lai^  orown  8to. 
bound  in  cloth,  gilt  top,  with  a  Portrait- Prontltpfeoe  to  each  Volume,  It.  M.  per  vol. 

%*  Also  Uie  UNIFOBM  EDITION  of  ROBBRT  BROWN INQ'S  WORKS,  in  17  volt,  crown  8vo. 
bound  in  Seta,  4/.  St. ;  or  the  Volumes  bound  separately,  bt.  each. 

ELIZABETH  BARRETT  BROWNING'S  COMPLETE  WORKS.    Cheaper 

Bdltion.  1  vol.  with  Portrait  and  a  Facsimile  of  the  MS.  of  *A  Sonnet  from  the  Portuguese,'  large  crown  8vo, 
bound  in  cloth,  gilt  top,  7s.  ed. 

V  Also  the  UNIFORM  BOITION  of  Mrs.  BROWNING'S  WORKS,  6  vols,  small  crown  8vo,  6t.  each. 

MISS  THACKERAY'S  WORKS.  Unifonn  Edition.  Each  Volume  illustrated 

by  a  Vignette  Titli^Paige.    10  vols,  large  crown  8vo,  8«.  each. 

LIFE   and  WORKS  of  CHARLOTTE,   EMILY,  and  ANNE    BBONTE.. 

TUB  **  HA  WORTH  "  BDITION.    7  vols,  large  crown  8vo.  cloth,  gilt  top,  6<.  each  ;  or  in  Set  cloth  binding,  gflt  t<»b 
21.  2$.  the  Set.    With  Portraite  and  Illustrations,  including  Views  of  Places  described  in  the  Works,  reproduced  fitnM^ 
Photographs  specially  teken  for  the  purpose  by  Mr.  W.  B.  Bland,  of  OufBeld.  Derby,  in  conjunction  with  Mr.  Qt 
Barrow  Keene,  of  Derby,  Medalists  of  the  Royal  PhoU^^phic  Society.     Introductions  to  the  Works  are  supplio     "* 
by  Mrs.  HUMPHRY  WARD,  and  an  Introduction  and  Notes  to  Mrs.  Gaskell's  'Lite  of  Charlotte  Brontd*  bv  f 
CLBMBNT  K.  SHORTKR,  the  eminent  Bronte  authority. 
%*  Also  the  LIBRARY  BDITION,  7  vols.,  each  containing  5  Illustrations,  Urge  crown  8vit,  b*.  each.    The  POPULA.'B 
BDITION,  7  vols,  small  post  8vo.  limp  cloth,  or  cloth  boards,  gilt  top,  2».  ed.  each.    And  the  POOKBT  BDITION,  7  vol^^ 
small  fcap.  8vo,  each  with  Frontispiece,  bound  in  cloth,  with  gilt  top.  It.  td.  per  Volume ;  or  the  Set,  in  gold-letterad  eky^li 
onse.  12t.  td. 

MRS.   GASKELL'S  WORKS.    Unifonn  Edition.     7  vols.,  each  containing 

4  Illustrations,  3s.  (id.  each,  bound  in  cloth. 
%•  Also  the  POPULAR  BDITION,  in  7  vols,  small  pott  8vo,  limp  cloth,  or  cloth  boards,  gilt  top,  3t.  M.  each.    A.nd 
the  POOKBT  EDITION,  in  8  vols,  small  foap.  8vo,  bound  in  cloth,  with  gilt  top.  It.  9d.  per  Volume ;  or  the  Set,  In  gold- 
lettered  cloth  case,  14t.  

W.    M.  THAOKERAY'S    WORKS. 

The   BIOGRAPHICAL   EDITION.      13  vols,  large  crown  8vo,  cloth,  gUt  top,   6/. 

This  New  and  Revised  Bdliion  comprises  additional  material  and  hitherto  Unpublished  Letters,  Sketches,  and 
Drawings,  derived  from  the  Author's  Original  MSS.  and  Note- Books ;  and  each  Volume  includes  a  Memoir  in  the 
form  of  an  Introduction  by  Mrs.  RICHMOND  RITOHIB. 

%•  THB  THIRTBBN  VOLUMBS  ARB  ALSO  SUPPLIBD  IN  SBT  CLOTH  BINDING,  GILT  TOP,  31.  18t. 
%*  A  Prospectus  of  the  Bdltion,  with  Specimen  Pages,  will  be  sent  pott  free  on  application. 

The  STANDARD  EDITION.      26  vols,  large  8?o,  10#.  6d.  each.     This  Edition  con- 
tains some  of  Mr.  Thackeray's  Writings  which  had  not  previously  been  collected,  and  many  additional  Illustnttoaa- 

The   LIBRARY   EDITION.     24  vols,  large  crown  8vo,  handsomely  bound  in  dotb^ 

91. ;  or  half-russia,  marbled  edges,  13/.  13t.    With  Illustrations  by  the  Author,  Richard  Doyle,  and  Frederick  Wsltar ^ 
%*  The  Volumes  are  sold  separately.  In  cloth,  7t.  6^.  each. 

The  POPULAR  EDITION.     13  vols,  crown  Svo,  with  Frontispiece  to  each  Voluma«» 

scarlet  cloth,  gilt  top,  32.  St. ;  or  half-morocco  gilt,  bl.  lOt. 

\*  The  Volumes  are  sold  separately,  in  green  cloth,  5«.  each. 

The  GHEAFEB  niLUSTRATED  EDITION.    26  toU.  bound  in  doth,  il.  ih.  ^ 

or  handsomely  bound  in  half-morocco,  Hi.  8s. 

%*  The  Volumes  are  sold  separately,  in  cloth,  3t.  6tf.  each. 

The  POCKET  EDITION.     27  vols,  bound  in  cloth,  with  gilt  top,  1«.  6(i.  each. 

%*  The  Volumes  are  also  supplied  as  follows :— 

The  NOVELS.    13  vols,  in  gold-lettered  i  The  MISCELLANIES.     14  vols,  in  gold- 
cloth case,  ait.  I        lettered  cloth  case,  ait. 
»«•  Mmrs.  SMITH,  ELDER  ^  CO.  wUl  be  happy  to  forward  a  CA  TALOGUE  </  their  Fublieationt  poitfrm  en 
London  :  SMITH,  ELDER  &  CO.  15,  Waterloo  Place,  S.W. 

Priated  bv  JOHN  IDWAao  FBAM0I8,  Athsaaaa  Press.  Bream's  BaUdlDgs,  GShaaesty  Laat.  B.a  t  aad  Fahllshed  by 
JOHM  0.  FAAM0I8  at  Bream  s  BoUdlaffs.  Ohaaeerf  Uuu,  B.a— flMarisr*  fliknunf  n,  UOL 


NOTES   AND    QUERIES: 

%  SUMom  ai  Intercommnniation 


roB 


LITERARY     MEN,     GENERAL    READERS,     ETC. 


**Wlien  fonxid,  make  a  note  of."— Captain  Guttle. 


No.  166.  [ISS.]  Saturday,  March  2,  1901. 


{ 


Pbiob  Foubpknok. 

Btgi^trtd  a$  a  Ntwtpapmr. 


MACMILLAN    &    CO.'S    NEW    BOOKS. 

SECOND  AND  CHEAFBK  EDITION,  WITH  ADDITIONAL  CHAPTERS. 

WEST  AFRICAN   STUDIES. 

By  the  late  MART  H.  KINOSLBT.    With  Portrait,  Illastrations,  and  Map.    Extra  crown  8vo,  7#.  6<2. 
A  NBW  I88UK,  CONTAINING  ALL  THB  ORIGINAL  ETCHINGS  BY  FAMOUS  ARTISTS. 

THE  BORDER  EDITION  OF  THE  WAVERLET  NOVELS. 

Edited  bj  ANDREW  LANG. 
Crown  8vo,  tastefully  bonnd  in  blue  doth,  gilt,  Of.  each. 
LATBST  VOLUMBS. 
The  ANTIQUARY.    With  lO  Etchings.      I  ROB    ROY.    With  10  Etchings. 


A  NBW  AND  ABRIDQBD  EDITION. 
THE  T.TTJTn  OF 

EDWARD    WHITE    BENSON. 

(Sometime  Arohbbhop  of  Canterbury.)  By  his  Son, 
A  0.  BBNSON.      Bztra  orown  8vo,  8s.  6d.  net. 

SECOND  IMPRESSION  NOW  READY. 

WILLIAM  SHAEESFEABE:  Poet, 

Dramatist,  and  Man.  By  HAMILTON  W.  MABIB. 
Wftb  9  Photogravures,  and  100  Illustrations  in  the  Text. 
8?o,  aij.  net. 

noOND  IMPBBSSION,  BBVISBD,  NOW  READY. 

PBO    GHBISTO    ET    EGGLESIA. 

Crown  8to,  gilt  top.  is,  M.  net. 


NBW  VOLUME  NOW  RBADT. 

MAOMTT.T.AN'S  LIBBABY  OF  IINOLISH 

CIiASSICS. 

The  COMPLETE  ANGLER,  and  the 

Lives  of  Donne,  Wotton,  Hooker,  Herbert,  and  Sfinder- 
son.  By  IZAikK  WALTON.  Demy  8vo,  cloth  elegant, 
3s.  ed.  net. 

HIGHWAYS  AND  BYWAYS  SEBTBS. 

New  Volume. 

EAST   ANGLIA.    By  WiUiam  A. 

DUTT.     With  Illustrations  by  JOSBPH   PBNNBLL. 

Extra  crown  8vo,  doth  elegant,  6«. 
WORLD.—**  Of  all  the  fascinating  volumes  in  the  *  High- 
ways and  Byways '  Series,  none  is  more  pleasant  to  read 

Mr.  Dutt,   himself   an  Bast  Anglian,    writes   most  sym- 
pathetically and  in  picturesque  style  of  the  district." 

BVEBSLBTY  SEBTES.— New  Volume. 

EASTHWOBE  out  of  TUSCANY. 

Being  Impressions  and  Translations  of  MAURICE 
HBWLBTT,  Author  of  *The  Forest  Lovers.'  Third 
Edition,  Revised.    Globe  8vo,  6s. 


HAGMILLAN'S  MAGAZINE. 

Pvleslj.    QmUnU  for  MARCH. 
\  ^-^a  TlCtUiLLX. 

I  ^iXilSAQE  ot  WO&Dd     Bf  SLrOoartenay  Boris,  K.C.B. 
l-^lUlfREIICa  P&IfiOIia  ud  THBIK    WMATBS.      By  Cspt. 

^  ^^fSwBR  vai  tba  PHOBLXlf .    By  Brie  Parker.    Chaps.  16-18. 

}  m\u,  IDWAJUM  (L  B.  Kll-lflM>. 

l  »e  ?MtING  at  1^  QUBBN. 

I  KQtrs  Hd  loTTTH.    BjW  A..  Atkinson. 

^  jl  tVLm^&a.  of  Mii:PiitR 

a  %^^'^^^  T&UTT.    hf  ft  Viit  imperial  Yolnnteer. 


THE  GENTURT  MAGAZINE. 

lUastrated.    Price  Is.  id.    Annnal  Subscription,  post  free,  16«. 

TU  MARCH  yumber  eouUtins— 

BURABHI.    By  Flora  Annie  Steel. 

IMPRESSIONS  of  JAPAN.    By  Rt.  BeT.  Henry  C.  Potter.  LL.D. 

The  FLIGHT  of  the  EMPRESS  DOWAGER    By  LnelU  Miner. 

DOWN  the  RHINE.    Worms  to  Coblenz.    By  Aagastlne  BirreU,  K.C. 

Pictures  by  Andr^  Castaif  no. 
The  PEOPLE  St  the  TOP  of  the  WORLD :  a  Tonr  through  Siberia  in 
Search  of  Andr^.    II.    By  Jonas  Stadlioff. 

And  numerous  other  Stories  and  Articles  of  General  Interest. 


MACMILLAN  &  CO.,  Limited,  London. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    (9»8.vilmaboh2.woi. 


2  ToU.  4to,  lUoitnted.  red  baekxmm,  gUt,  prlo«  S0«. 

THE   LITTLE   BED   BOOK   OF 
BBISTOL. 

PablUhed  undar  the  Avthority  of  the  Uonnell  of  the  Citj  and  Coontj 
of  Bristol. 

Bdited  by  FBANCI8  B.  BICKLEY, 
AstUUuit  ia  the  Oeputment  of  MBS.,  BritUh  Mtueom. 


lltu  important  historioal  refitter,  orifrinated  in  19U.  eoTen  a  period 
of  160  jeara,  and  records  the  liberties,  franchises,  and  constitutions  of 
the  town,  many  eedesiasUcal  foundations,  and  a  most  interesting  series 
of  trade  frnilds.  The  Tolumes  throw  great  light  on  the  habiU  and  life 
of  the  cltisens  i  and  to  the  student  of  philology  man  j  examples  are 
afforded  of  archaic  and  obsolete  words. 

To  all  Interested  in  earlj  municipal  history  these  rolomes  contain 
much  of  interest  and  importance. 

Bristol:  W.  OBOPTON  HBMMONB.  ST.  STEPHEN  8TKBET. 
London :  SOTBBBAM  ft  CO.  Booksellers.  STEAMD. 


O 


,NE    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES.      Engraved 

on  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MOUIMO. 

Foap.  4to.    Prtated  direct  from  the  Original  Blocks  on  Hand-made 
Paper,  bound  ia  artistio  boards.  I2«.  dd.  net. 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Engraved  on   CJopper. 

By  THOMAS  MOBISg. 

Uniform  with  the  above.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Plates 

on  Hand-made  Paper.  26«.  net. 

THOMAS  MOBIMO. 
The  De  la  More  Press,  52.  High  Holbom.  London.  W  C. 


MOW  BBADT.  BBOOND  EDITION,  BBYISBU  and  ENLABGBO. 

^PHE    PENNY    CHKONOLOGY:    a    Series    of 

X  Important  Dates  in  the  History  of  the  World  from  the  Belgn  of 
Darld  to  the  Present  Time.  Second  BdiUon.  By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A. 
F.U.A.S. 

O.  STONBMAM,  89,  Warwick  Lane,  E.C. 

NOW  BEADY,  SE00ND:BDITI0N,  BBVISED  and  AUGMENTED, 
prloe  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNa. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN.  B.A.  F.B.A.S. 
O.  BTONEMAN.  88,  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 

TENTH  EDITION,  prioe  Two  Shillings. 

CELESTIAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    of 

<J  Astronomy.  Tenth  EdlUon.  With  8  FUtes.  By  W.  T.  LYNN. 
B.A.  F.B.A.S. 

"  Has,  we  are  glad  to  tee.  reached  a  ninth  edition,  which  enables  this 
excellent  introduction  to  the  facu  of  astronomy  to  be  Drought  up  to 
date.'— (iNortf  ion. 

SAMPSON  LOW  ft  CO.,  St.  Dnnstan's  House,  Fetter  Lane,  BC. 


C 


STICKPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Gum  for  sticking  in  Scraps,  Joining  Papers,  ftc.  9d.  and  1«.  with 
strong,  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy).  Send  two  stamps  to  oo'ver  postage 
tor  a  sample  Bottle,  including  Brash.  Factory,  Sugar  Loaf  Court, 
Leadenhail  Sureet,  B.C.    Of  aU  Stationers.    Stickphast  Paste  sticks. 

SCHWEPPES  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  International 
Bxhibiuon.  Paris,  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

OchweppesOoda. 

THESU  WATEKb  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continue  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

/    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER  :— 
\  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN, } 
I  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  ) 

ScHWEPPBS,  LTD.,  LONDON.  MaLVERN, 

OLASQOW.  LIVaaPOUL,  BKISTOL.  SYONET.  aad  MBLBOVBME. 


nnHE    CORONATION    of    QUEEN    VICTORIA. 

FOR  SALE  a  Copy  of  the  SUN.  Second  Edition.  Jane  28.  lOi. 
printed  in  Gold.  oontaininK  a  Fall  Aoeoant  of  the  Queen's  Coronation 
and  a  Description  of  the  State  Carriages  of  M*>fH%i  Soolt  and  the 
other  Ambassadors.— Oflisrs  reqaested  to  Z.,  Athencum  Praoa.  Bzeamis 
Buildings.  Chanoerj  Lane,  EC. 

GRAPHIC     (The),     FINE    COMPLETE     SET. 
Numbers  as  nice  as  New.   U. ;  oost  neariy  601.    Weighs  haU-toa. 
—LOWE'S  BOOKSHOP.  New  Street.  Birmingliam. 


PRIVATE  SECRETARYSHIP  to  a  GENTLEMAN 
WANTED  br  a  BAaRISTER.  aged  8S  (B.A.  Oxon.  with  Honons), 
to  replace  a  similar  appointment  Just  terminating.  ExcaUmt  testi- 
monials from  present  employer.— ApplT  by  letter  to  C.,  oai«  of  Mesan. 
Hepworth  ft  Co  ,  16.  South  Street,  FlasbiuT.  &0. 

BOOKS,  M8S..  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  & 
CX).,  Auctioneers  of  Books  and  Literary  Property  of  erery 
description.  Libraries  aod  smaller  CoUeettons  carefully  Catalogued 
and  promptly  oflbred  for  Sale.  Packing  and  Remoral  arcaaged  for. 
Valuations  made  for  Probate  or  uther  purposes.  Auction  Bomas,  lU. 
Chancery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end).    BslabUshed  1809. 


C 


^ULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

for  Searches  and  Authentic  Information  reapeetiBg 

ARMORIAL   BEARINGS   AND   FAMILY    DESCENTS. 

With  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artlstie  Produetioa  of 

HERALDIC  PAINTING  AND  ENGRAVING. 

Book-Plates.  Seals.  Dies,  Signet  Rings.  LiTory  Buttons.  Crested  Nole- 

Paper,  Visiting  and  InTitatton  Oarda.  4ke. 


92.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Ora«n  Park). 


FIRST  EDITIONS  of  MODERN  AUTHORS, 
Indading  Dickens,  Thackeray.  LcTor,  Alnsworth ;  Books  illus- 
trated by  O.  and  R.  Croikshank.  Phis.  Rowlandson.  Leech,  te.  The 
largest  and  choicest  Colleetion  offered  for  Sale  in  the  World.  Osia- 
logues  issued  and  sent  post  free  on  appUeation.  Books  bought.— 
WALTER  T.  SPENCER.  27,  New  Oxfox^Street.  London.  W.C. 

BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  sup- 
plied,  no  matter  on  what  Subject.  Acknowledged  the  worid  otct 
as  thr  most  expert  Bnokflnders  nxtant.  Please  ttate  waau.— HAKHR'S 
Great  Bookshop,  14-16.  John  Bright  Street,  Birmingham. 


prepw«d 
andPBl 


THENiKUM      PRESS.— JOHN     EDWARD 

FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  AUunmum.  N«Us  and  Qwsriss.  4e..  is 
.Vd  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  aU  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEWS. 
PERIODICAL    PRINTING.— 13.  Bream's    Buildings.    ~ 

I.  EC 


VO  LET,  41,  HARRINGTON  ROAD.  BRIXTON, 

semi-detached  VILLA,  well  situated,  close  to  Railway  ( 


and  Trams ;  in  thorough  repflUr.    Bath-room  and  erery  conTunleaes. 
Kent  42/    10*.  including  use  of  Fixtures —AppI    ^     ~ 
House  Decorator.  317.  Coidharbour  Lane,  Brixton. 


to  B.  HAJRMEB, 


THE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER- PAD. 
(The  LEADBNUALL  PRESS.  Ltd..  Publishers  and  PrlnSers. 
SO.  Leadenhail  Street.  London.  E.C.) 
Cootaiot  hairless  paper,  over  which   th<>    pea   sUps  with    perfset 
freedom.    Sixpence  saeh.    U.  per  tfosen.  ruled  or  plain.    New  Poeket 
Sixe,  Ss.  per  dosen.  ruled  or  plsln. 

Autbor»  should  note  that  The  Leadeahall  Prasa,  Ltd..  canaot  Se 
responaible  for  the  loss  of  MS8  by  Are  or  otherwiae.  Daplleata  eepiss 
•honid  be  retained. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 


CUFFES— SUGAft— TEA 


104,  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  W.G. 


9*  8.  vn.  mabch  2, 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


161 


UD^OOlf,  SATUBDAV,  MAMCMt,  1301. 


CONTENTS, -No,  16a 
HOTBS  t— Faniiutlc  FJetlon,  161—''  Knavish  "  Sbftketpesn 

Correction B   ia   Imlbxea,  tM  — Empire  mid  Klaffdom  of 

Arid  — "  H  EJtchUig  a*M>at "— "  To  trunk  up  "  — **  Bi^sonie  " 

— Mmotsw  inri  Lomlou  Dfibria—  Ferdinand  VI L— "  B&rted  " 

— IjoiKloti  £><enioj{;  Pufrtrs— **  Knlghta  of  the  Moon,"  ICS 

—  Queflti*  aj><l  the  Gwt«r  —  Oenerml  BWgh  —  Sarigne — 

DIfdicU'b  Letter!,  166. 

QUERIES ;-' '  Pftulle  '*— OibKjn  Cmltf-Lmnetit  for  Chuuoer 

— E.   F<»fe«r(rill "  J-    ¥*  Fox  —  Sarly  French    *  Pilgrim's 

^  *  18T  —  Population  of   T<ywnii  —  '  *  Wfthbllna  '*  — 

h  Pwnlly— CoU  Cooper-*' Mary's  Ohippel/' IflS 

— Bu4r  HetliodlcM  And  pAHfh  Cbureh— LtwiilonChui^hea 

— B1>DclieMS«'Hiid&mf  Bont^miJi  —  Hariei-rullnif  to  Old 

I9ti«^pam -- *  Iau  of    Ricbmoiul    Hlir— R.   Smith,  of 

Srtsiol--9fir£euii  of  the  Ciit«ry— "  Cnnlle  CommlftiiloiiN  *' 

-Fwgvunb— Bow  Family,  lOti-^Tolpatohery/'  170. 

IBPUiS:  — Bcftrchvrv   ol    Lewthtf  -  Wiue  la  the  Eftrty 

Cburcii— QuoUCionii^  I  fo— Dresden  Am  ?n— A  chill  lit  And 

_BboiSDdeitdmnj  aurl  Olftandera— liidepecdent  Oompaiky 

of  lDTiil!d«-- Ftin«jnal    ChjhIi  —  Area  of  Churohvarfia  — 

"Clubbtnf  the  hattuJlon,"  Ifl— OefinlrJijn  of  GratUud«- 

*'  The   pfjwer  of  the  rtqa  '*  -  Govtraor  HayneJt'i  Of*nr1- 

fBtbiT  —  Hon-la  w  a  JCa-i  of   Buaine^a  -  *'  Wlaev"   IH- 

Sl  Otei»«nt  Danet— **KnJevnnuis"— naroy  Lever,   113— 

FUbSic  MournluK  —  Outlaw   Faxoily,   ITi  — VUltation  of 

9cif|olk  —  Kote  on  ChauDer,  17&— *Five  o'clook  tea'*— 

Or.  Jiihnion— Mntt<)  for  Laundry  Poroh— Royal  Stnndanl 

-D'Auiergne   Family,    176  —  Lftat   Uak   OeaMndunt  of 

XkXot—'  Boot-Worlil '  -  WbAtely  b   '  Logic '  —  "  Pimll "  — 

"Bmten-Kift" -Gladstone  Statue,  117— Whltgift'i  Hoa- 

piul,  Croi^don— Jeise  and  Selvtryn,  178. 

lOflBS  fill  BOOKS  :-Grant'i  ''The  French  Monarohy*- 

ItnuUU'H     ■  Ulerary    History    of    America'  —  Sioeker'i 

*lMa§aMfmoi  HaQdwrlblng'— *  Whitaker'i  Pe«rAgi;/ 

tflltei  to  Ui9TTt»pOC|deiltB. 


FANTASTIC  FICTION. 

So3{£  fm^meDta  of  the  '  Ambian  Nigbta  ^ 
iH  to  be  found  in  the  *  Pleaaant  Nights '  of 
Str&p&rola,  who  wrote  before  the  *  Arabian 
3f igh ts '  were  k uo w n  in  E u rope,  Bu  t  Strapa- 
^i&  might  have  got,  and  is  uuppo^ed  to  have 
Epti  jiome  of  his  stories  directly  from  the 
^t  It  isj,  however,  strange  to  find  the 
latne  atoriea  iii  the  '  Arabian  ISTights  'and  in 
^fefblk  traditions  of  the  north  of  Europe, 
V"®  Persian  tales  are  excellent,  and  some- 
{inies  hardly  inferior  to  tbeir  Arabian  cousins, 
tot  they  nodonbtedly  have  bad  aome  French 
*^ditioni  to  them,  made  by  the  hand  of  their 
traii^slator  into  that  language.  The  Turkish 
JtoKm  seem  to  be  more  genuinely  Oriental, 
tsat  for  the  most  part  have  less  fancy.  One 
^ight  have  supposed  that  superior  people 
*OTald  have  thought  the  Arabian  and  Per- 
^««i  tales  charm ing»  even  though  they 
<^'Wlered  them  to  oe  mere  trifles.  Some 
P^ple,  however,  are  not  charmed  by  tliem. 
B^bp  Atterbury,  writing  to  Pope  on  the 
JBoject  of  the  Ai*abian  tales,  expresses 
'•iinself  thus  :— 

'To  read  thode  two  volumeg  through,  liking 
"leni  ai  little  tm  I  do,  would  be  i^  terrible  penance. 
*•  wiQ  jMfer  helLare  that  you  have  any  keeii  relieh 


of  them.  Who  th&t  Petit  de  la  Croiae  is,  the  pre- 
tended author  of  them ^  I  cannot  tell,  but,  observing 
how  full  they  ^ire  in  the  descriDtioa  of  dress,  t%c,,  I 
cannot  help  thinklnii^  them  the  product  of  some 
woman's  iniagiuation/' 

The  reference  bo  Petit  do  la  Croix  seems  to 
show  that  the  bifshop  was  alluding  to  the 
Persian  tales,  of  which  Petit  de  la  Croix 
was  the  translator.  Although*  as  has  pre- 
viously been  remarked,  a  few  samples  had 
been  picked  up  by  Straparola^  and  perhaps 
by  otnera,  the  greater  treasures  of  Oriental 
fiction  wore  not  disclosed  to  Europe  before 
the  latter  part  of  the  seventeenth  century* 
The  French  then  turned  their  attention  to 
the  East,  and  also  began  to  give  heed  to  the 
marvellous  stories  which,  coming  originally 
from  the  East^  lay  latent,  preserved  by 
tradition,  amongst  all  the  nations  of  Europe. 
D*Herbelot^  the  autlior  of  the  *  Bibliotheque 
Orientale* ;  Galland,  translator  of  the*  Arabian 
Hights* ;  Petit  de  la  Croix,  translator  of  the 
Persian  tale^  and  the  Turkish  tales ; 
Perrault,  collector  of  folk-tales ;  Madame 
d'Aulnoy,  writer  of  fairy  stories  foundad  on 
folk-tales;  Anthony  Hamilton,  also  author 
of  fair^  stories  founded  on  folk-tales,  and 
traveatier  of  the  *  Arabian  Nights,'  were 
all  contemporaries,  and  died  about  the 
beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century  or 
twenty  years  later,  M.adame  d'Aulnoy  in 
her  fair^  tales  was  indebted  to  Straparola 
and  Basilej  but  she  must  also  have  had 
access  to  other  folk -stories,  for  there  is  a 
strong  resemblance  between  her  work  and 
Northern  folk -stories  which  are  not  in  the 
small  collection  made  by  her  contemporary 
Perrault.  Count  Hamilton's  story  of  *  Flour 
d^Epine*  is  almost  entireljf  manufactured 
out  of  a  couple  of  Scandinavian  folk-tales. 

After  the  time  of  Galland  there  arose  a  host 
of  writers  who  deluged  the  world  with  imita- 
tions of  Eastern  stories.  Members  of  the 
French  Academy,  gentlemen  and  ladies  of 
quality^  lawyers  anoabbt's,  all  wrote  after  this 
manner.  Often  the  plan  waa  to  divide  the 
series  into  one  thousand  and  one  fragments, 
though  fortunately  the  authors  seldom  got 
through  more  than  one-fifth  of  their  in- 
tended labours.  Voltaire  was  affected  by  the 
Oriental  mania,  and  wrote  'Zadig- and  other 
Eastern  tales.  Ca^^tte  had  a  hand  in  the 
continuation  of  the  *  Arabian  Nights,*  and 
is  responsible  for  some  inferior  fairy  stories  ; 
but  he  was  really  inspired  when  he  wrote  his 
*Diable  Amoureux.'  Afterwards  came  the 
*  Vathek '  of  Beck  ford.  True  genius,  though  it 
may  occasionally  be  a  little  extravagant,  is  al- 
most al  ways  allied  to  good  taste.  In  *  Vathek ' 
taste  and  genius  are  equally  conspicuous;  and 


162 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    f9«»  s.  vn.  mauch  2  1901 


this  is  the  only  tale  written  in  imitation  of 
Oriental  fiction  which  e^quals,  and  perhaps 
transcends,  what  it  copies.  In  works  like 
Bunyan^s  *  Pilgrim's  Progress,'  Swift's  *  Gulli- 
ver's Travels,  and  Voltaire's  romances,  the 
marvellous  is  only  used  as  a  means  to  some 
instructive  end.  Many  have  been  the 
voyages  to  the  sun  and  to  the  moon;  and 
very  dull  they  generally  are.  If  one  adds 
the  *  Undine'  of  La  Motte  Fouque  to  *  Vathek' 
and  the  *Diable  Amoureux,'  tne  three  most 
beautiful  modern  prose  stories  dealing  with 
the  marvellous  will  have  been  brought  into 
conjunction.  Cazotte  says  that  he  wrote  the 
*  Diable  Amoureux '  in  one  day.  Beckford 
wrote  his  '  Vathek '  in  an  exceedingly  short 
time.  Both  these  authors  lived  to  the  age  of 
eighty,  and  though  they  wrote  much  besides, 
neither  of  them  has  produced  anything  ot 
vitality,  or  worthy  oi  vitalitv,  except  the 
above-mentioned  works,  whicn  occupied  so 
very  small  a  portion  of  their  time. 

Wieland  in  *  Prince  Biribinker,'  a  story  in 
*Don  Sylvio  von  Rosalba,'  has  travestied 
fairy  and  fantastic  fiction ;  but  his  story, 
though  somewhat  obscene,  is  itself  very  gooa 
fantastic  fiction..  Mus«eus  did  not  originate 
his  stories,  although  indeed  it  is  said  that  he 
invented  one  of  them  concerning  Riibezahl 
in  order  to  explain  the  name.  But  he  col- 
lected some  excellent  traditions,  and  put 
them  into  very  go<)d  form.  Hoffmann  was  a 
most  original  writer.  The  best  of  his  fan- 
tastic stories  is  the  *  Golden  Pot.'  Wild 
fancy  is  there  blent  with  a  strain  of  genuine 
humour,  and  the  union  of  the  supernatural 
impossibilities  with  the  possibilities  of  real 
life  is  generally  well  executed.  The  most 
inartistic  thing  in  the  story  is  the  conclusion, 
where  a  Gk^rman  student  of  modem  times  is 
carried  awav  into  an  impossible  fairyland. 
The  unbridled  imagination  of  Hoffmann 
went  too  far.  Even  these  marvellous  stories 
should  beconsistent  with  themselves.  Granted 
the  supernatural  machinerv,  the  rest  should 
not  be  incongruous.  But  Hoffmann  made  his 
story  impossible  on  any  hypothesis.  Hauff 
wrote  two  good  stories,  the  Dwarf  with  the 
Long  Nose '  and  the  *  Cold  Heart ' ;  but  the 
rest  of  his  supernatural  work  is  mediocre. 
Especially  absurd  are  his  imitations  of 
Onental  fiction.  Almost  in  every  line  he 
displays  his  utter  ignorance  of  the  East.  He 
might  have  corrected  his  blunders  by  a  care- 
ful perusal  of  the  *  Arabian  Nights,'  even 
though  he  never  had  the  opportunity  of 
riding  upon  a  camel. 

The  name  of  Washington  Irving  occurs  as 
the  writer  of  some  of  the  most  charming 
Eastern  stories,  for  his  Moorish  stories  may 


be  called  Eastern,  though  the  scene  of  them 
is  in  Spain.  But  he  old  not  invent  them. 
They  are  really  Eastern.  He  simplv  told 
them  again,  improving  them  with  his  own 
8tyle,  grace,  and  humour.  These  Eastern 
stories,  and  indeed  all  stories  of  the  fantastic 
kind,  are  the  most  difficult  things  to  do  wdl 
and  the  easiest  things  to  do  badly.  Of 
Washington  Irving's  other  fantastic  fiction 
the  same  may  be  said  as  of  his  Oriental 
tales.  He  did  not  invent  his  stories,  but  he 
clothed  them  with  a  charm  peculiarly  his 
own.  E.  Yardlby. 


SHAKESPEARE  THE  "KNAVISH"  AND 
RABELAIS. 

Although  ingenuity  has  almost  been  ex- 
hausted in  eulogy  of  Shakspere,  yet  from 
his  own  days  to  ours  there  nave  been 
some  discordant  voices.  Within  about  forty 
years  of  his  death  we  have  a  reference  to 
'*the  knavish  Shakspere."  As  this  is  not 
mentioned  in  the  volumes  of  allusions  to  him 
issued  by  the  New  Shakspere  Society,  it  may 
be  desirable  to  call  attention  to  it 

The    first    edition    of    Thomas    Blount's 
*  Academy  of  Compliments'  is  dated  in  the 
British  Museum  Catalogue  29  January,  1654, 
that  is,  according  to  our  present  reckonings 
1655.     There  was  a  second  edition  in  166S 
with  additions,  a  third  in  1664,  a  fourth  ia 
1670,  and  a  fifth    in    1683.      The    book    is 
pedantic,    but    contains    some    noteworthy 
matter.    For  the  present  it  is  enough  to  cito 
the  Shaksperean  reference.     Blount,  in  addi- 
tion  to  a  treatise  on  'English  Rhetorique^* 
gives  examples  of  "  commonplaces,"  formulas, 
instructions  for  addressing  letters,  a  collectioxi 
of  letters  intended  apparently  as  models  o^ 
epistolary  style  or  else  for  service  as  a  conci.' 
plete  letter-writer,  and    instructions    as   t>o 
'^  superscriptions  for  letters  to  be  addresse<l 
to  all  sorts  of  persons." 

One  of  the  letters  reads  :— 

LXXVII, 

To  a  Friend  upon  his  Marritige. 
Sir,— I  have  of  late  with-held  from  you  -e.lm^ 
Characters  of  my  hand,  though  not  the  weU-wisli^ 
of  my  heart,  conceiving  you  as  close  in  the  purs^s.m 
of  your  fair  Daphne^  as  Phctbus  was  of  his,  when  t^lm 
breath  of  his  mouth  disordered  her  disheveled  hs^i  mr 
For  I  perceive  you  have  now  ran  so,  as  happily  '^u 
take  the  Virgin  prize ;  may  you  be  ever  rautiiAJ-  My 
hapPX*    There  now  only  remains  the  metamorpho^F^^f 

I  not  into  the  Beast  with  two  backs,  whion   tM^e 
[navish  Shakespear  speaks  of)  but  of  that  mc^M^ 
ingenious,  two  into  one,  unus^  una  into  unum,whi^^h 
you  have  hinted  so  modestly  in  yours.    Your  betpk^^^ 
I  hope  (before  the  arrival  of  this  Paper)  will  be  (XX^- 
verted  not  only  into  Bays,  but  Roaemary^  which    «* 
one  fragranoy,  due  to  her  perfeoUona  (u  yon  h^^w 


9*  a  viL  BiAEOH  2, 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


163 


9M  I  doubt  not)g:iven  her  a  true  character)  more 

than   the  Pen  gave  Apollo's  Mistress.      Let   this 

therefore  suffice  to  give  you  both  the  Parabien  or 

HymeiCa  honours  and  felicities,  and  to  let  you  know 

1  shall  both  expect  and  be  ambitious  to  wear  a 

sprig  in  honour  of  her,  nor  will  I  fail  heartily  to 

commend  you  both  to  the  great  President  of  the 

wedding  ot   Cana  in   Galilee^  that  he  may  turn 

the  bitter  WcUers  of  your  long  expectation  into  the 

Wtnc  of  a  happv  and  content^  life,  made  up  with 

the  blessing  of  a  good  and  pious  posterity ;    in 

which  devotion  I  affectionately  rest 

Sir,  Your  humble  SeriHitU, 

H.  T. 

The  quotation  in  from  la^o's  speech  in  the 
fiwt  scene  of  *  Othello/  The  letter  of  H.  T. 
and  the  speech  of  lago  are  alike  conceived  in 
a  vein  of  humour  that  is  somewhat  discon- 
certing to  the  squeamish  stomachs  of  more 
modem  times. 

So's  phrase  is    Rabelaisian,  for  in   the 
chapter  of  the  '  Life  of  Gargantua*  we 
read  that  he 

"en  son  eage  virile  espousa  Gargamelle,  fille 
do  roy  des  Parpaillos,  belle  guouge,  et  de  bonne 
troigne.  Et  faisoyent  eulx  deux  souuent  ensemble 
Is  bnte  a  deux  dos,  ioyeusement  se  frottent  leur 
Isrd,  tant  que  elle  engroissa  dung  beau  filz,  et  le 
pourta  iusques  a  lunzieme  moys.** 

The  words  in  Shakspere  are  a  more  literal 
rendering  of  the  phrase  of  Rabelais  than  is 
the  ?ersion  of  the  prince  of  Rabelaisian  trans- 
lators Sir  Thomas  Urquhart.    On  turning  to 
Dr.  Howard    Fumesss   excellent  variorum 
edition  of  '  Othello/  a  reference  to  Gargantua 
^  be  found.    Voltaire  made  it  a  reproach 
to  Shakspere  that  he  had  employed  so  coarse 
^  expression.  It  was  not  the  indecency,  but 
the  coarseness  that  repelled  him,  we  may  pre- 
^n)e,and  he  was  apparently  unaware  that 
the  words  were  to  be  found  also  in  a  French 
ciassic.  But  let  us  be  just  to  Voltaire.   Whilst 
'^^  criticizes  Shakspere,  he  acknowledges  his 
Renins,  and  speaks  of  'Othello'  as  a  '* belle 
^'^edie."    It  is  perhaps  useless  to  speculate 
^bether  Shakspere  had  read  Rabelais  or  had 
*^eard  the  phrase  in  conversation. 

Meanwhile  to  the  unknown  H.  T.  belongs 
rOe  distinction  of  being  the  onlv  man  who 
■^Hg  spoken  of  the  "  knavish  "  Shakspere. 

William  E.  A.  Axon. 


L 


SHAKESPEARE'S  BOOKS. 
{Continued  from  9^  S.  vi.  466.) 
A  WW  vears  ago  I  called  the  attention  of 
^^  Manchester  Shakspere  Society  to  some 
^jsaages  in  Florio's  *  Montaigne'  to  which 
Shakespeare   probably    alludes,   and    which 
^^  not   then   noticed    by    the   commen- 
tators.   I  quoted  the  passages  in  which  **  dis- 
^J<tt«e  of  reaaon  **  occurs,  but  I  knew  that 
the  phrase  appears   in    the  works  of  old 


authors  published  long  before  1603.  It 
would,  in  fact,  be  easy  to  fill  many  pages  of 
'  N.  «k  Q.'  with  extracts  from  them  containing 
this  phrase,  but  a  few  examples  may  suffice. 
Hooker  uses  it  several  times  in  his  'Eccle- 
siastical Polity ' : — 

"  Philosophy  we  are  warranted  to  take  heed  of  ; 
not  that  philosophy  which  is  true  and  sound  know- 
ledge attained  by  natural  discourse  of  reason,  but 
that  philosophy  which  to  bolster  up  heresey  or  error 
casteth  a  fraudulent  shew  of  reason  upon  the 
simple,  which  are  not  able  to  withstand  such 
cunning."— Book  iii.  8. 

"We  agree  with  those  men,  by  whom  human 
laws  are  defined  to  be  ordinances,  which  such  as 
have  lawful  authority  given  them  for  that  purpose, 
do  probably  draw  from  the  laws  of  nature  and  God, 
by  discourse  of  reason  aided  with  the  influence  of 
devine  grace.  —Book  iii.  8. 

**  Whatsoever  the  mean  be  they  know  it  by,  if 
the  knowledge  thereof  were  possible  without  dis- 
course of  natural  reason,  why  snould  none  be  found 
capable  thereof  but  only  men,  nor  men  till  such 
time  as  thev  come  unto  ripe  and  full  ability  to  work 
by  reasonaole  understanain^  ?  The  whole  drift  of 
the  scripture  of  God,  what  is  it,  but  only  to  teach 
theology?  Theology,  what  is  it,  but  the  science  of 
things  aevine  ?  Wnat  science  can  be  attained  unto, 
without  the  help  of  natural  discourse  of  reason?"— 
Book  iii.  8. 

"The  mysteries  of  our  religion  are  above  the 
reach  of  our  understanding,  above  the  discourse  of 
man's  rea>son^  above  all  that  any  creature  can  com- 
prehend."—Book  V.  63. 

But  these  books  of  the  *  Ecclesiastical  Polity  ' 
were  published  only  a  few  years  before  1603 : 
book  iii.  in  1595  and  book  v.  in  1597,  while 
books  vi.,  vii.,  and  viii.,  from  which  I  have 
not  Quoted,  were  published  after  1600 ;  there- 
fore I  will  give  a  few  extracts  from  an  older 
book,  *  The  Academie  of  Philosophie,'  written 
by  Peter  de  la  Piimaudaye,  m  which  the 
"Epistle  dedicatorie  to  theKing" (of  France), 
not  the  translator  T.  B.  C.'s  "  Epistle  dedica- 
torie," concludes  in  these  words : — 

"I  beesech  God  to  preserve  your  Majestie  in 
great  prosperitie,  increase  of  honor,  and  continuance 
of  a  long  and  happy  life.  At  Barre  in  the  moneth 
of  Februarie  1577.**^ 

Here  are  some  instances  of  **  discourse  of 
reason  "  from  Primaudaye : — 

"By  the  grace  and  help  of  God,  the  mind  is 
able  to  confirme  itselfe  against  any  passion  through 
discourse  of  reason  before  it  be  in  force,  and  during 
the  veheroencie  thereof,  to  fortifie  itselfe  against  it. 

"  He  was  endued  with  an  excellent  and  quicke 
snirite,  apt  to  conceive,  and  with  a  firme  memorie, 
aole  to  retaine  them  altogether :  and  this  may  be 
seene  in  many.  But  the  perfection  of  these  two 
great  gifts  of  nature,  is  a  good  and  sound  judge- 
ment, proceeding  from  Dondoring,  and  from  a 
firme  discourse  of  rea^ton  lightened  by  the  spirit  of 
God,  and  bv  the  same  spirit  purged  from  error, 
illusion,  and  all  vaine  opinion,  which  are  usual  in 
man,  and  hinder  him  from  judging  aright  of  the 
truth." 


164 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9- s.  vil  mar< 


"  The  merchant  sailinf?  on  large  and  terrible  io^fl, 
may  rearse  profitc  by  his  trafficke,  but  bought  with 
th&  perill  Qf  hia  111©^  ami  hazard  of  hia  f^prtaine 
patnmonie.  Neither  can  this  be  douQ  except  he 
na^e  firat  Iaid@  a  good  ground  of  hh  voiage  upon  a 
aura  dMCourse  of  remsoUf  aod  upon  the  direction  of 
a  good  &Dd  wise  pilot.'^ 

-The  tnoat  seDeible,  common  and  true  opinion 
which  the  wisest  amonpt  the  Philoaophera  had  of 
the  souIp,  ia  that  which  dividelh  it  into  two  |*artH 
onely,  under  which  all  the  rest  are  compns&d : 
the  one  being  spiritual  and  iotelUgible,  where  the 
discmirm  of  reason  ia ;  the  other  brmtlan|  which  ia 
the  sensual  1  will  of  itself  wandering  and  disordered, 
where  all  motions  crtDtraric  to  reason,  and  all  evill 
deal  res  havo  their  dwellini;!:." 

**The  aoule  of  man  {aa  Pythagoras  said)  i&  com^ 
pounded  of  undersiandmgf  knowledge*  opinion  and 
eenee,  from  which  thmgs  all  knowledge  and  artB 
proceedi  and  of  which  man  ia  ccUM  rectsojiabk, 
that  ii  apt  to  di^tcoursG  by  rtwiony 

"  The  nature  of  man  is  like  to  a  imire  of  balance. 
For  if  ho  be  not  guided  with  knowledge  and  reason 
unto  the  better  part,  of  it  aolfe  it  ie  carried  to  the 
woorae*  And  although  a  man  be  well  bome,  yet  if  he 
have  not  hi«  jodgenient  fined,  and  the  dist^oitr^n^ 
pari  qf  Am  7nitid  purmd  xpitk  fM  retMmm  of 
phiio^Qphm,  it  will  fall  often  into  groaga  faults  such 
as  beaeem  not  a  prudent  man." 

I  have  now  cjuoted  a  few  of  the  many 
paeaagea  in  Pn  maud  aye's  book  in  whicn 
this  phrase  occurs,  Primaudaye  also  uses 
**  discourse  "  m  connexion  with  other  word  a, 
such  as  ^'diseournes  of  philosophy/*  '*  dis- 
coursing of  the  mind,"  *'  discourse  of  reason 
and  judgement";  and  Hooker  uses"  diacourse 
of  wit":- 

**Our  lives  in  this  world  are  partly  guided  by 
rulea^  and  partly  directed  bv  examples.  To  con- 
clude out  of  general  rules  ana  axioms  h^  diiiraitrm 
of  wit  our  duties  in  every  fmrticular  action,  is  both 
troublesome  and  many  times  so  fuU  of  ditficulty, 
that  it  maketh  deliberations  hard  and  ted  ions  to 
the  wisest  men."—"  Eoelesiafitical  Polity,*  book  v. 

Discourse  of  reason  may  mean  the  use  or 
exercise  of  reason,  and  the  line  in  '  Hamlet ' 
in  which  it  occurs, 

O  God  {  a  beast  that  wanta  dimounA  of  reason, 
may  signify 

0  God  \  a  beast  that  wants  tht  tue  of  reason* 

Although  ill  many  of  the  books  publii^hed 
diiring  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth  '^^  dia- 
courae  of  reason"  often  occurs,  in  others  it 
never  appears.  Now,  as  this  phrase  is  found 
frequently  in  many  old  authors  long  before 
Shakenpeare  wrote  any  of  his  plays,  I  think 
ii  is  reasonable  to  conclude  that  at  that 
time  "  discourse  of  reason  '*  was  often  uaed 
in  conversation  by  educated  men  and  women. 
At  some  future  time  I  intend  to  give  my 
reason  for  believing  that  this  phrase  was 
known  to  Hooker  before  he  went  to  Oxford, 
and  to  Shakejipeai'e  in  the  days  of  his  youth 
at  Stratford -on 'Avon.  W*  L.  Rushton. 
(To  &€  tiomiitmtd,) 


*  Notes  akd  QuERiEfl':  Corei 
Oenjsral  Indexes.  (See  antt^  p.  4 
thanks  arf?  due  to  W.  C.  B.  for 
About  eight  ye^ra  ago  I  sent 
I  i.s  ti  b  u  t  i  t  n  e  ve  r  a  p  peared .  I  no  w 
few  additional  errors  and  omissions 

First  Series. 

P.  1.  Classified  Articles,  add 
Medals,  Milton^  Newspaper;^. 

P.  53  b.  Twenty-one  references 
Falconer)  are  iQisplace<L  They  sh 
the  letter  F,  ana  not  Families,  i 
sent. 

P.  64  b.     Hampstead,  for  v.  8  re^( 

P.  77  a.  Lady- Bird,  insert  254. 

P.  133  b-  in  Memoriam,  read  2i 
of  277. 

P,  140  a,  Warrington,  for  249  rea< 

R  144  a.  Witchcraft,  after  Hi 
insert  x.  144. 

Second  Sekies. 

P,  1.  Classified  Articles,  add  . 
Bible,  Irish,  Junius,  London,  Milter 

P.  48  a.  D^Auvergne,  for  195  read 

P.  90  b.  City  arms,  for  ix.  rea^i  x. 

P.  97  a.  Medals,  Pretender,  adt 
V.  148,417;  ix,  152,  412. 

P.  121  a.  Not  lost,  but  gone  befon 

P.  141  k  Stella  and  Dean  Swift,  i 

Third  Series. 
P*  L  Classified  Articles^  a.dd  Lone 
P.  83  a.  Knives,  their  history,  for 
2S7, 
P,  107  b.  Pinnock,  for  499  read  44 
P*  128  a.  Serjeants'  rings,  iv-  252  \ 

Fourth  Series. 
P.  L  Classified  Articles,  add  Be 

Coins,  Hymns,  Inscriptions,   Irelai 

Junius,  London,  Marriage,  Medals,  M 

Mottoes,  Scottish, 
P.  14  a.  Belsoni,  read  Belzoni. 
P.  35  a.  Caricatures,  for  iv,  294 

494,     Amencan,  ix.  37  omitteil. 
P»  64  a.  Rheumatism  i^cipes,  add 
R  05  a.  Font  at  Dunino,  tor  42R  n 
P,  121  a.  Praje^n,  ii.  40y  incorrect 

vol.  ii.  and  Fourth  Series. 
P.  13D  b-   Bedesdale,  read  lletlesda 
P.  133  b.  St.  Cyriacus,  for  vii.  reat 

Fifth  Series, 
P.  1.  Classified  Articles,  add  Hyn 
don,  Miltoniana,  Tavern  Sigas, 

Sixth  Berfes. 

P*    L     Classified    Articles,    add 
Medals,  Mottoes,  Ta\  ern  bigns, 

P.  36  a.  Busby,  ii,  455  omitted. 

R   43  a.   Clarke  or  Clark,  Jerei 
vi  read  v. 


9*  S.  Vn.  March  2, 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


165 


p.  106  a.  Green  bai^  for  200  re&fl  220. 

P.  138  a.  Trousers  for  ii.  read  iii.  ;  for  54 
read  58. 

Eighth  SEfums. 

P.  1-  Classified  Articles,  Parallel  Passages 
tielete.  Evirard  Homb  Coleman. 

71,  Ereckiiock  Road« 

The  Empire  a^d  the  Kingdom  of  Arles,— 
I  have  cut  the  following  from  a  review  in  the 
icodbni^  of  2  February  of  **  My  First  Voyage 
&ud  my  First  Lie.  Ketated  by  Alphonse 
Daudet  to  Robert  H.  Sherard."  It  ia  a  curious 
example  of  how  hi.<(torical  traditiocs  Burvive, 
aod  as  «uch  is  well  worthy  of  a  place  in  your 
colamns  :— 

J'  There  are  no  better  fellows  in  the  world  than 
the  ^ees  of  the  Rhone,  with  their  eyea  clear  and 
Kp«rkling  like  the  white  wine  of  Condrieu,  &  place 
on  the  b&Dk^  of  the  Rhone,  the  Dative  place  of 
Jolt  of  thetii.  DurinK  my  voyage  on  the  Bonnar- 
dell^  1  Qied  tc  amuse  niyielf  by  watching  them 
»t  their  work  on  the  bargea  whicb^  like  our  steatoer, 
were  Bomg  up  the  river.  1  could  aee  them  seated^ 
wre-legged,  on  the  leader  of  a  string  of  niwleB, 
^mn  through  in  visible  fords  the  sturdy  animak 
wbiUowed  huge  barges  laden  with  barrels  of  wine 
w»a  blocks  of  quarried  »ttjne.  Now  and  again  the 
own  »t  the  tilfer  would  liommand  in  a  loud  voice, 
»oi»rding  aa  the  boats  were  to  go  to  the  right  or  to 
the  left:  *£mpt^ri/,^.,..^iaum£!'—{EmpiTet  Roy- 
*ui!t6V-whicb  to  the  mariners  of  the  Rhone  aigni- 
wM,  Fort  or  Starboard*  These  terms  are  derived 
miy  tlie  ancient  appellations  with  which  in  the 
Middle  Ages  they  diatinguiflbed  the  ahorea  of  the 
^i«dotn  of  Aries  and  of  the  Empire  of  Germany, 
JJtii  magic  sound  of  these  Provencal  ayllablea^  which 
fw  sii  hundred  vears  have  rung  out  ever  the  same 
^  the  winds  of  the  Rhone.  Emp^f  Riautne/ 
J^pite!  Kingdom!  Even  to-davi  when  I  hear 
tiie-tn-for  these  term  a  are  still  uaed  by  the 
*3i*nneri  of  the   Rhone— the  same  emotiooa  take 

ASTARTE. 

"HuTCHTNo  ABOUT,"— I  heard  thia  phrase 
J»r  the  first  time  a  few  days  ago.  It  was 
'^  to  ex  press  the  action  of  a  person  moving 
ntwMit  wittiin  hi"!  clothing  to  accomraodate  a 
tight  or  ill-fitting  garment  to  his  body  :  **I 
**^  hutchin'  about  m  ray  shirt.*' 

"To  TRUNK  UP,"— The  same  speaker  sub- 
8€<lti6atly  delighted  me  by  saying,  u  propos  of 
*  ti^velling  menagerie,  **  The  elephants  went 
P*^t  i  garden  with  cabbagea  in  it,  and  did 
^<*t  thf-y  truok  them  up  !'^  **To  trtink  up" 
struck  me  aq  bein^  worthy  of  a  place  among 
^fJ*  forcible  English  idioms  of  Bunyan  and 
other  wribers,  whose  choice  of  words  was 
^*hiitluenc6d  by  a  claa^ical  education. 

/*Bjgc0Mi." —Recently  a  labouring  man 
^ttmrk^,  "  It  becomes  you  to  be  here,  when 
^  ain  trimmiTi^  these  rose*i.  to  see  if  I  am 
WBDg   them  nght/'  meaning    that   it    was 


advisable  that  I  ahould  be  present  This  us© 
of  *' become'*  is  rather  quaint,  but  correct 
enough,  I  imagine,  Ijt^colk  Green. 

Moscow     AND    LONIKJN     DEBRIS,— In     the 

Proper t^f  Market  Rtvieto.  £6  January,  is  a 
short  notice  of  the  late  Mr.  J,  H,  Salter,  the 
last  proprietor  of  St.  Chad^a  WelL  Near  the 
forgotten  spring  were  the  huge  dust  and 
cinder  heaps  at  Battle  Bridge*  These  wero 
sold  to  the  Russian 9,  who  converted  the  ddbrU 
into  building  material  for  the  reconstruction 
of  Moscow  after  the  historic  conflagration  of 
IB\%  so  graphically  illustrated  by  VassiH 
Veres tch agin,  "  Holy  Mother,  white- walled 
Mascow,"  is  thus  partly  rebuilt  from  the 
refuse  of  our  metropolis. 

Francis  P,  Marchakt. 
Brixton  Hill. 

FiEDiNASD  YIL— As  the  last  edition  of 
the  *  Encycbpsedia  Britannica '  has  been 
reprinted  on  terms  such  as  to  secure  a  very 
wide  circulation,  it  is  as  well  to  point  out 
slips  when  one's  attention  is  called  to  them, 
so  that  they  may  be  corrected  when  a  new 
edition  is  being  prepared.  One  of  these  I 
met  with  recently  on  having  occasion  to  refer 
to  the  account  of  Charles  IV,,  King  of  Spain, 
His  famous  (or  infamous)  son  and  heir,  after- 
wards Ferdinand  VIL,  is  three  times  in  the 
article  in  question  called  Frederick,  Charles 
made  no  attempt  to  recover  the  throne  after 
the  expulsion  of  Joseph  Bonaparte,  but  con- 
tinued in  retirement  at  Rome  (where  he  had 
gone  in  1811),  and  died  there  in  18ia  The 
'Annual  Register^  gives  the  exact  date  as 
20  January,  but  the  *  Nouvelle  Biographie 
Geoerale^  puts  it  2S  November, 

W.  T,  Lynn. 

Blackheatb, 

**  Barted/' —  On  p,  3  of  the  Pall  Mall 
Gazstte  for  li  February  the  words  "  He  was 
bart-ed  in  1841  "^  occur.  The  verb  to  bart. 
meaning  to  make  a  baron et^  is  not  im booked 
in  the  'll.E,D.,*  though  fmrt,  as  a  noun  is, 

E.  S,   DODGBOH, 
[We  eiueerely  hope  that  it  never  will  be,  any 
more  th^n  to  mo^e,] 

LoNi>ON  EvEKiNG  Papers,— Perhaps  it  may 
be  of  future  interest  to  note  that  the  Sun 
was  the  only  evening  paper  published  in 
London  on  the  day  of  tlie  Queen's  funeral, 
2  February.  Ibagu£ 

'*  Knights  op  the  Moon."— Among  some 
old  letters^  ifec,  left  by  a  gentleman  who 
resided  for  a  time  in  London  over  a  century 
ago^  I  found  a  pasteboard  card,  3§  in*  by 
2f  in.,   bearing    the    following    copperplatj© 


166 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [»«» s.  vil  makch  2,  iwi. 


impression,  the  personal  names  and  dates, 
however,  being  written  in  :  "  Knights  of  the 
Moon,"  on  a  circled  garter  or  belt,  surrounded 
by  radii,  these  rays  forming  an  eight-pointed 
star  similar  to  that  of  the  Order  of  the  Garter. 
In  the  centre  of  the  circle  formed  by  the  belt 
above  mentioned  appears  a  crescent  moon. 
Then  comes  "Instituted  Octor.  13,  1781." 
After  this  follows  the  name  of  the  *' knight"  : 

"Sir was  created   Knight  of  this 

Order  Novr.  2^,  1785.  Sir  John  Thompson, 
President."  The"knights"  numbered  over  700. 
I  fancy  this  "  Order  "  was  some  London  club 
or  brotherhood,  but  as  I  kno^v  nothing  about 
it,  and  am  curious  to  learn,  I  shall  be  much 
obliged  by  some  light  being  thrown  on  the 
subject — unmixed  with  "moonshine." 

An  American. 

Queens  Members  of  the  Order  of  the 
Garter.— TVm^A  for  February  21st  does  well 
to  make  the  following  contradiction  of  the 
mistake  made  in  most  of  the  pap)ers  that 
Oueen  Victoria  and  Queen  Alexandra  are 
tne  only  Queens  who  have  been  members  of 
the  Order  of  the  Garter  :— 

**  Queen  Alexandra  is  the  first  Queen  Consort  who 
has  worn  a  blue  ribbon,  but  every  Queen  of  Eng- 
land, from  Mary  I.  downwards,  has  been  a  member 
of  the  Order,  as  a  sovereign,  on  ascending  the 
throne,  becomes  ipno  facto  a  Knight  of  the  Garter. 
William  IV.  had  m tended  to  confer  a  blue  ribbon 
upon  Queen  Adelaide,  but  for  some  reason  or  other 
the  idea  was  abandoned." 

N.  S.  S. 

General  Bligh.  (See  ante,  p.  24.)— Neele's 
engraved  plan  of  the  battle  of  CuUoden, 
which  is  to  be  found  in  Home's  'History 
of  the  Rebellion,'  gives  the  name  Bligh  cor- 
rectly enough,  but  Home  himself  writes 
Bly  tn,  and  this  misspelling  has  been  repeated 
by  several  writers. 

Thomas  Bligh  was  a  cavalry  officer  who 
became  lieutenant  -  colonel  of  the  6th 
Horse,  from  which  he  was  promoted  to  the 
colonelcy  of  the  20th  Foot  in  December,  1740. 
He  was  raised  to  the  rank  of  brigadier- 
general  in  May,  1745,  and  was  employed  for 
some  time  in  that  capacity  in  the  north  of 
England,  taking  possession  of  Carlisle  at  the 
end  of  December,  when  the  rebel  garrison 
surrendered  to  the  Duke  of  Cumberland. 

Bligh  was  removed  from  the  20th  Foot  to 
the  12th  Dragoons  in  April,  1746,  was  pro- 
moted to  the  rank  of  major-general  in  1747, 
and  at  the  end  of  that  year  was  removed  to 
the  2nd  Irish  Horse.  This  was  the  old 
6th  Horse,  the  regiment  in  which  he  had  been 
Jieutenant-colonei,  originally  the  7th  Horse, 
and  since  1788  designated  the  5th  Dragoon 
Guards.    For  a  long  period  they  were  popu- 


larly known  as  the  Green  Horse,  from  their 
"full  green  "  facings,  waistcoats,  breeches,  and 
horse  furniture,  the  trumpeters  wearing  also 
coats  of  "full  green." 

In  1754  Bligh  was  promoted  to  the  rank  of 
lieutenant- general,  and  in  1758  he  was  en- 
trusted with  the  command  of  an  expedition 
for  a  descent  on  the  coast  of  France.  The 
attack  on  Cherbourg  was  a  success,  but  that 
on  St.  Malo,  in  September,  was  a  disastrous 
failure.  The  retreat  ill  became  the  colonel 
of  a  regiment  whose  motto  was  "Vestigia 
nulla  retrorsum."  Bligh  was  loaded  with  re- 
proaches, and  in  Octooer  he  was  succeeded 
m  the  colonelcy  by  John  (afterwards  Earl) 
Waldegrave. 

Another  misspelling  which  has  been  re- 
peated is  the  name  Burrel,  which  should  be 
Barren.  W.  S. 

Sarigfe,  Zoological  Term.— The  pronun- 
ciation of  this  zoological  term  is  figured 
incorrectly  in  all  our  dictionaries,  viz.,  as 
two  syllables  (sahreeg)  instead  of  three 
(mh-ree-gav).  The  stress  should  be  upon  the 
last  syllable  (gay).  The  etymology  presents 
features  of  unusual  interest.  The  *  Encyclo- 
psedic'  and  *  Century'  dictionaries  merely 
state  that  sari^ui  is  from  Brazilian  mrigueya^ 
but  a  much  fuller  account  of  the  word  is 
given  by  Felix  de  Azara  in  the  first  volume 
of  his  'Historia  Natural,'  1802  (xxiv.  236). 
He  shows  that  the  short  form,  sarigu^^  is  the 
name  of  a  tribe  of  Indians  in  Paraguay,  and 
that  the  long  form,  sarigueva^  the  name  of 
the  opossum,  means  "  Xefe  de  los  Sarigu^." 
This  IS  obviously  a  case  of  what  we  now  call 
totemism.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  worth 
noting  that,  although  from  what  has  been 
said  above  it  appears  that  mrigueya^  and 
not  sarigud,  is  the  proper  name  for  the  animal 
yet  the  oldest  Portuguese  writers  on  Brazil 
mvariably  use  the  shorter  form.  Thus  Gan- 
davo's  *  His toria' (1576)  has  "Outro  genero  de 
animaes  ha  na  terra,  a  que  chamam  cerigoes," 
Similarly,  Gabriel  Soares  in  his  *  Noticias  do 
Brazil'  (1587)  has  "Serigo^  e  um  bicho  de 
tamanho  de  um  gato  grande."  I  may  add 
that  the  editions  I  use  of  these  two  most 
fascinating  works  are  those  published  in  the 
third  series  of  the  Revista  Trimensal  of  Rio 
de  Janeiro.  Jas.  Platt,  Jun. 

Disraeli's  Letters.  (See  antCy  p.  120.)— 
Two  volumes  of  Disraeli's  letters  nave  ap- 
peared :  (1)  *  Home  Letters  in  1830  and  1831,' 
published  in  1886,  and  (2)  'Correspondence 
with  his  Sister,'  1886  (John  Murray).  The 
B^ond  volume  has  as  motto  on  its  title-page^ 
i^^Yortiv  iv^W.  ^\^"»\ft^  wA  \t  \a  a  valuable 


«-*  8.  vn.  maboh  2. 19010    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


167 


record  of  the  thoughts  and  feelings  animat 
mg  the  writer  as  he  developed  out  of  a 
precocious  society  novelist  into  a  statesman 
of  the  first  rank.  From  the  first  he  is  confi- 
dent of  his  future,  and  the  easy  deliberation 
of  his  occasional  critical  survey  is  very 
refreshing.  Sir  Robert  Peel,  e.g.,  "attacking 
his  turbot  most  entirely  with  his  knife"; 
Stran^ord  considered  as  "an  aristocratic 
Tom  Moore";  Bulwer's  mother-in-law  as 
^'something  between  Jeremy  Bentham  and 
Meg  Merrflies";  Mrs.  Norton's  rival  Lady 
Emmeline  Wortley,  with  "person  more 
beautiful  than  her  poetry,"  are  all  pithy 
with  that  Quality  of  epigrammatic,  hyper- 
bolical truthfulness  which  characterizes  an 
energetic  and  vivacious  intellect  reaching  out 
towards  greatness.  The  letter  dated  8  Decem- 
ber, 1837,  telling  of  his  notorious  maiden 
speech  in  the  House  of  Commons,  is  a  very 
candid  statement,  and  is  signed  "Yours, 
D— -,  in  very  good  spirits."  Writing  on 
6  February,  1845,  Disraeli  says  in  reference 
to  Gladstone's  retiring  speech  as  President 
of  the  Board  of  Trade,  "  Gladstone's  address 
was  involved  and  ineffective.  He  may  have 
an  avenir,  but  I  hardl v  think  it."  Altogether 
the  book  is  singularly  free  from  anything 
weak,  mean,  or  deUberately  uncharitable, 
and  constitutes,  in  its  own  way.  a  treasury 
of  autobiography,  criticism,  and  history. 

Thomas  Bayne. 


Wi  rnuBt  request  correspondents  desiring  infor- 
mation on  famuy  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
m  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
oirect. 

"'Paulib."— From  the  *E.D.D.'  material  it 
appears  that  this  is  not  an  uncommon  word 
in  the  south  of  Scotland  and  Northumber- 
J»na.  It  is  used  especially  of  lambs.  A 
pwdie"  is  one  of  the  inferior  lambs  of  a 
^  *  sickly  or  deformed  lamb.  It  is  also 
jaed  as  an  adjective,  as  "  a  paulie  lamb,"  and 
figuratively  of  human  beings,  "a  paulie 
^ture."  The  word  is  also  pronounced 
.  pwlie."  I  can  find  no  instance  of  the  word 
^°  early  Scottish  literature.  Query,  the 
ethology?  A.  L.  Mayhew. 

Gibson  Cbaio. — I  have  an  engraving  of  a  pic- 
wreof  Elizabeth  Throgmorton,  Lady  Raleigh, 
fogmved  by  R  Bell  from  an  original  picture 
g  the  possession  of  James  T.  Gibson  Craig, 
«q-  I  should  like  to  find  out  the  address  of 
*r*Craig,  or,  if  heiadasJ,  that  of  any  of  Ma 


heirs,  as  I  wish  to  discover  the  whereabouts 
of  the  original  picture. 

C.  WicKLiFFE  Throckmorton. 
349,  Broadway,  New  York. 

Lament  for  Chaucer.— I  should  be  very 
much  obliged  if  any  of  your  readers  could 
identify  the  author  of  the  following  lament 
for  Chaucer.    It  occurs  in  a  i)oem  called  *The 
Cownseyl  of  the  Trynite,'  in  an  unnamed 
volume  of  old  English  sacred  poems  : — 
And  eke  inyn  maystcr  Chawncers  now  is  graue, 
The  noble  rethor  poet  for  verry  certeyne, 
That  worthy  was  the  laurer  to  haue 
Of  Poetrye  and  the  palme  atteyne, 
That  made  fyrst  to  dystylle  and  reyne 
The  golde  dewe  dropes  of  speche  and  eloquence, 
In  to  owre  tunge  thorow  his  excellence. 

And  fondo  the  floures  fyrst  of  Retoryke 
Owre  rude  speche  only  to  enlumyne, 
That  in  owre  tunge  was  neuer  non  hym  lyke. 
For  as  the  sunne  doth  on  heuene  shyne 
In  mydday  spere  down  to  us  by  lyne, 
In  whos  presence  no  sterre  may  appere, 
Ryght  so  hys  dities  with  owten  eny  peere, 

Euery  makyng  with  his  lyghte  disteyne 

In  sothfastnesse  who  so  taketh  hede, 

Wherfore  non  wondre  thoro  myn  herte  pleyne 

Upon  his  deth  and  for  sorowe  bleede 

For  wante  of  hym  now  in  myn  greet  neede, 

That  shuld  alias  conneye  and  dyrecte. 

And  with  his  supporte  amend  and  correcte 

The  wrong  traces  of  myn  rude  penne, 
Ther  as  I  erre  and  go  not  lyne  ryght, 
But  for  that  he  ne  maye  me  not  kenne. 
I  can  no  more  but  with  alle  myn  myght, 
With  alle  myn  herte  and  myn  inward  syght, 
Preye  for  hym  now  that  be  in  hys  cheste 
To  god  aboue  to  3eue  his  sowle  good  reste. 

Maude  G.  May. 
[References  to  Chaucer  like  the  foregoing   are 
frequent  in  Occleve  and  Lydgate.] 

Richard  Fotheroill  was  admitted  to  West- 
minster School  on  17  January,  1820.  He  was 
born  21  May,  1806,  and  is  said  to  have  died  in 
1821.  I  should  be  glad  to  ascertain  his  parent- 
age and  the  exact  date  of  his  death. 

G.  F.  R.  B. 

John  Fox  Fox  was  admitted  to  Westminster 
School  on  8  January,  1787.  Anv  particulars 
concerning  his  parentage  and  career  are 
desired.  G.  F.  R.  B. 

*Thb  Pilgrim's  Progress':  Early  Edition 
IN  French.— I  seek  to  identify  an  unfamiliar 
and  probably  scarce  edition  of  *  The  Pilgrim's 
Progress'  in  French,  my  copy  of  whicn  un- 
happily lacks  the  title-page. 

The  following  details   are  submitted   not 
merely  to  assist  ray  quest,  but  in  the  belief 
that  the  perennial  interest  which  invests  the 
immortal  allegory  wWV  maV^  \i>afeT£i  ^^^swvaa 
to  your  readers.  TheAitWe  A\xod^\taa  x^^axi» 


168 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [g«^  s.  vil  march  2.  iwi. 


its  frontispiece,  a  well-conceived  and  carefully 
finished  copperplate  engraving  representing 
the  pilgrim,  with  ample  slouch  hat,  a  pilgrim- 
bottle  slung  from  his  waist,  and  a  substantial 
bundle  on  his  back,  lifting  the  ring-shaped 
knocker  of  a  door  which  admits  to  a  winding 
uphill  path  (with  sundry  houses  of  rest  on  the 
way),  which  leads  (in  virtue  of  an  accom- 
modating perspective)  by  easy  stages  to  the 
Celestial  City  in  the  not  remote  background. 

Over  the  door  is  inscribed  "Heurtez  et  il 
Vous  Sera  Ouvert !  "  The  finish  and  detail 
of  the  picture  are  in  marked  contrast  with  the 
rude  and  barbarous  embellishments  of  the 
early  English  editions.  But  the  main  interest 
centres  in  the  nine  pages  of  **  Preface  au 
lecteur  Chretien,"  written  apparently  while 
the  "illustrious  dreamer"  was  still  in  the 
flesh.     Says  the  writer  :— 

"  L*Auteur  de  ce  Trait6  est  un  Ministre  AngloiR, 
nomm^  Jean  Bunian,  Pasteur  d'une  Eglise  dans  la 
Villa  de  Bedfort  en  Angle terre,  oil  il  fait  luire  sa 
lumi^re  devant  les  hommes,  non  seulement  par  ses 
excellens  enseignemens,  mats  aussi  \}Ar  la  puret^ 
d'une  vie  sainte  k  exemplaire,  ayant  bon  t^moign- 
age  de  tons,  comme  S.  Jean  le  disoit  de  Demetrius, 
3  Ep.  V.  12.  Mais  quand  on  ne  le  connoitroit  pas 
d'ailleurs,  ce  petit  Ecrit,  aussi  bien  que  tons  les 
autres  qu*il  a  mis  au  jour,  dont  quelques-uns  sont 
du  radme  genre  que  ce1ui-ci,  sufnroient  ikjuf  faire 
connoitre  la  profonde  intelligence  k  la  coiinoissance 
qu'il  a  dans  les  choses  Spirituelles  k  Divines." 

Following  this  eulogium  of  the  author  comes 
a  brief  analysis  or  scheme  of  the  work,  and  a 
defence  of  the  use  of  emblem  and  allegory  in 
a  book  of  this  kind,  coupled  with  the  state- 
ment that  the  author  himself  at  first  experi- 
enced a  misgiving  in  respect  thereto, 

"mais  qu'enfin  il  ceda  aux  avis  de  quelques  per- 
sonnes  sages  k  pieuses,  qui  luy  conseillorent  de 
mettre  son  Ouvrage  sous  la  presse,  k  de  le  re- 
pandre  dans  le  monde,  comnie  une  amorce  pour 
gagner  quelques  &mes." 

This  the  translator  must  have  learnt  from 
Bunyan's  familiar  rimed  apology,  which  is 
omitted  from  this  edition. 

His  final  allusions  are  valuable,  as  indicating 
the  phenomenal  popularity  the  book  had 
already  attained.    He  remarks  :— 

**Certes,  sMl  est  auasi  bien  re9u  des  Francois, 
comme  il  I'a  ^t^  des  Anglois,  qui  Tont  tellement 
gout^,  qu'il  s'en  est  fait  plusieurs  Editions  on  Angle- 
terre.  dans  peu  de  terns,  le  Tradiicteur  n'aura  pas 
lieu  ae  se  repenlir  de  sa  peine,  ni  I'lniprimeur  de  sa 
d^pense ;  k  cela  pourra  encourajjer  I'un  k  I'autre  k 
donner  encore  au  Public  un  autre  Ouvrage,  de  notre 
Auteur  (qui  est  comme  la  suite  de  celui  ci)  intitul^  ; 
•  Le  Voyage  de  la  Chr^tienne  k  de  ses  Enfans.'  Au 
reste,  il  est  bon  d'avertir  qu'on  a  d^ja  vu  une  Tra- 
duction Francoise  de  cet  Ouvrage,  qui  a  ^t^  im- 
prim^  en  Hollande,  il  y  a  plusieurs  annees ;  mais 
comnie  elle  a  M  faite  par  un  VVallon,  qui  parle 
Flamendj  en  Fran9ois,  elle  est  si  mauvaise,  qu'on  ne 
la  pent  hre  qu'avec  degout.    C'est  pourquoi  Ton  a 


cru  faire  plaisir  aux  bonnes  ames,  d'en  faire  one 
autre  toute  nouvelle,  qui  f  ut  un  peu  plus  Francis©. 
If  from  these  scanty  data  any  reader  can 
help  me  to  the  name  of  the  translator,  and 
the  dates  of  the  first  and  subsequent  editions 
(if  any),  I  shall  esteem  myself  his  debtor. 

Charles  Kino. 

Torquay. 

[The  first  French  translation  recosnized  by  biblio- 
flraphers  is  anonymous.  It  is  entitled  '*  Voyage  dn 
Chretien  et  de  la  Chr6tienne  vers  rEtemit6  Bien- 
heureuse,  traduit  en  fran^ois.  Neufchlitel,  1716, 
in  8vo."  Reprinted  B^le,  1728,  2  voU.,  12mp; 
CJolmar,  1821.  12mo;  Valence.  1828,  12rao.  "  Le 
P^lerinage  a'un  nomm6  Chretien,  ^rit  sous 
TAU^gone  d'une  Songe,  traduit  de  VanKlais  (jjar 
Robert  Estienne),"  appeared  at  Paris,  Savoye  («jc), 
1772,  in  18mo.  Other  editions  were  issued  in  1793, 
1820,  1824,  1825.  The  early  editions  were  printed 
abroad,  presumably  because  the  book  was  regarded 
in  France  as  heretical.] 

Population  of  Towns.— Can  any  readers 
of  *  N.  &  Q.'  refer  me  to  any  work  or  article 
dealing  with  the  populations  of  English 
towns  prior  to  the  official  censuses  ]  The  onl^ 
matter  I  can  find  so  far  is  that  in  Macaulay  s 
famous  third  chapter  on  'The  Condition  of 
England  in  1685.'  Student. 

"  Wabbling."  —  On  p.  486  of  his  *  First 
Principles'  Herbert  Spencer  uses  what  he 
admits  to  be  an  inelegant  word,  "  wabbling." 
At  first  I  took  this  to  be  a  printer's  error, 
until  reading  lower  down  the  same  page  I 
found  the  word  "  wabbling"  repeated.  How 
long  has  the  change  trom  **  wobbling" 
to  "wabbling"  been  m  current  use  I  Wno 
was  the  first  literary  genius  to  discover  itt 
What  did  it  originate  from  1  Was  it  borrowed 
from  the  peculiar  motion  of  a  spinning-top  t 
M.  L.  K.  Breslar. 

Brandreth  Family.— For  the  purpose  of 
obtaining  some  genealogical  information,  I 
should  like  to  learn  the  addresses  of  any  of 
the  children,  or  other  relatives,  of  Mrs. 
Brandreth,  who  was  a  daujehtor  of  the  late 
Henry  John  Shepherd,  Q.C.,  Bencher  of 
Lincoln's  Inn,  Recorder  of  Abingdon,  dec. 

W.  Geo.  Eakins. 

Osgoode  Hall,  Toronto,  Canada. 

Col.  Thomas  Cooper.— Where  can  in- 
formation be  obtained  concerning  Thomas 
Cooper,  a  colonel  in  Oliver  Cromwell's  army, 
whose  family  possessed  land  in  Oxfordshire  ? 
I  seek  also  genealogical  information  as  to 
the  descendants  of  the  family. 

Arthur  L.  Cooper. 

Reading. 

"  Mary's  Chappel."— I  have  an  old  concert 
ticket  by  W.  Hogarth,  engraved  by  Jane, 


»-'S.vilmaeoh2.i90L]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


169 


which  bears  the  legend  "Mary's  Chappel, 
Five  at  Nij[ht."  Above  this  inscription  is  a 
representation  of  a  party  of  masicians  playing 
various  instruments.  I  should  be  grateful  if 
any  reader  of  *  N.  &  Q.'  could  tell  me  what 
"  Mary's  Chappel "  this  refers  to.    A.  W.  F. 

Eably  Methodists  and  Pabish  Church.— 
I  have  read  somewhere  that  John  Weslev 
compelled  his  class  -  leaders  to  attend  cul 
services  in  their  parish  church,  on  pain  of 
dismissal  from  office.  Can  anv  reader  give 
an  instance  bearing  on  this  ?  No  doubt  there 
were  fewer  services  to  attend  then. 

Ibagu^. 

London  Churches. — Is  any  account  pub- 
lished of  the  monuments  and  brasses  in 
LfOndon  churches]  (Mrs.)  J.  H.  Cope. 

Blackheads.— In  the  *H.E.D.'  one  finds 
blackhead  only  as  the  name  of  a  bird.  In 
*  Beauty  Culture.'  by  H.  Ellen  Browning 
(London,  1898),  tne  term  blackheads  occurs 
several  times  as  the  name  of  some  defect  in 
the  human  skin,  e.g.,  pp.  130,  134,  138.  On 
pp.  139  and  140  the  following  passage  serves 
as  some  sort  of  a  definition  ot  tne  word  : — 

**  For  those  who  are  already  afflicted  with  black- 
heads, the  best  plan  is  to  bathe  the  face  for  ten 
minates  in  hot  water  with  sub-carbonate  of  soda  in 
it.  This  opens  the  pores  and  softens  the  scarf- 
skin.  Then  squeeze  out  the  objectionable  little 
black  points,  and  apply  an  astringent  lotion  after- 
wards to  close  the  pores.  A  little  emollient  cream 
is  excellent  to  heal  and  soothe  any  symptom  of 
inflammation.'' 

Before  this  wortl  finds  its  way  into  the 
supplement  of  the  dictionary  of  Murray 
and  Bradley,  will  it  be  possible  to  quote 
some  earlier  authority  for  its  use  and  a 
clearer  definition  ?  E.  S.  Dodoson. 

rrhis  word  is  obviously  intended  to  indicate  what 
is  known  as  acne.] 

Madame  Bontkmps.— Can  any  of  your 
waders  direct  me  to  a  portrait  or  print  of 
Madame  Bontemps  (1718-68),  who  translated 
Thomson's  'Seasons'  into  French  prose? 
Readers  of  Gibbon's  autobiography  will  re- 
n^ember  her.  M. 

Hakd-bulino  in  Old  Title-pages.— Has 
ajttention  ever  been  drawn  to  the  fact  that 
wie  ^ing  of  lines  in  old  books  is  done  by 
^d  I  That  this  was  the  case  is  proved  by 
toe  frequent  unevenness  of  the  work.  Here 
^  there  one  can  see  that  the  ink  gave  out 
pefore  the  line  was  ended.  Almost  all  the 
fcitle-pages  of  seventeenth-century  sermons 
fre  haQd-mled,  the  page  being  set,  as  it  were, 
^  a  frama  In  some  cases  the  ruling  is 
^^^fried  through  the  volume  in  this  fashion. 


I  may  cite  as  examples  the  1623  and  1632 
Shakspeare  Folios,  Svdenham's  'Sermons' 
(1637),  and  Wase's  dictionary  (1662).  In 
the  last  instance  the  page  is  ruled  into  three 
columns.  This  work  must  have  been  done 
after  the  printing,  while  the  book  was  in 
sheets,  and  it  must  have  employed  many 
workmen.  Richard  H.  Thornton. 

Portland,  Oregon. 

*  The  Lass  of  Richmond  Hill.'— The  Daily 
Telegraph  of  Monday,  25  February,  has  the 
following  :  — 

**  Mr.  John  A.  Langston  writes  to  point  out  that 
the  real  lass  of  Richmond  Hill  was  a  *  daughter  of 
W.  TAnson,  of  Hill  House  (locally  called  The  Hill), 
in  Richmond,  Yorkshire.  She  married  in  1787  Mr. 
L.  M*Nally,  who  composed  the  words  in  her  honour. 
Hook,  the  father  of  Theodore,  set  them  to  music, 
and  the  song  was  sung  by  Incledon  at  Vauxhall 
Gardens.' " 

Has  Miss  I'Anson  been  mentioned  in  *  N.  &  Q.' 
as  being  the  real  lass  of  Richmond  Hill  ? 

A.  N.  Q. 

[See  1"  S.  ii.  103,  350 ;  v.  453 ;  2»*»  S.  ii.  6 ;  xi.  207 ; 
^  S.  xi.  343,  362,  386,  445,  489:  b'^  S.  ix.  169,  239, 
317.  495 ;  x.  69,  92,  168,  231,  448 ;  xi.  52 ;  xii.  315 ; 
6"*  S.  ii.  HI ;  8"»  S.  v.  181.] 

Richard  Smith,  Surgeon,  of  Bristol.— I 
shall  be  much  obliged  if  your  correspondent 
W.  C.  B.  will  give  me  information  concerning 
the  above,  together  with  full  particulars  of 
his  heraldic  book-plate  mentioned  in  the  note 
entitled  * "  Ambrose  Gwinett,"  a  Drama ' 
{antey  p.  106).  George  C.  Peachey. 

Brightwalton,  Wantage. 

Sergeant  op  the  Catery.  —  What  was 
this  office  ?  E.  E.  Cope. 

[The  Catery  is  the  office  connected  with  the 
supply  of  the  royal  household.] 

"Cradle  Commissions."— Can  any  of  your 
readers  state  any  facts  as  to  when  first,  and 
how,  these  commissions  were  granted  to 
infant  children  of  directors  and  their  friends 
of  the  Honourable  the  late  East  India  Com- 
pany] A.  F. 

Feroaunt. — Alan  Fergaunt  is  enrolled 
among  the  Anglo-Norman  nobility,  the  second 
name  being  probably  a  personal  adjunct.  Are 
its  origin  and  meaning  known  ?  A.  H. 

Roos  Family.— In  1667-70  the  Lord  Roos 
obtained  an  Act  for  a  decree  of  divorce  from 
his  wife  Anne  (daughter  of  the  Marq^uis  of 
Dorchester),  and  for  the  "  illegitimation  of 
the  children  of  the  Lady  Anne  Roos  " ;  and 
by  another  Act,  one  "  for  the  Lord  Roos  to 
marry  again,"  the  children  of  his  former  wife 
were  disabled  from  inheriting  lands  or 
honours.    Can  any  of  the  readers  of  '  N.  &  Q.' 


170 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    P*  s.  vii.  march  9, 1901. 


say  if  there  were  children  of  the  Lady  Anne 
R008  (beyond  the  Lady  Frances,  who  died 
in  1659)  actually  precluded ;  and,  if  so,  are 
there  any  traces  of  their  descent?       A.  M. 

"ToLPATCHERY."— Trench  (*0n  the  Study  of 
Words,'  p.  223),  speaking  of  **  comic  words " 
for  which  their  authors  did  not  intend  more 
than  a  very  brief  existence,  cites  "tolpatchery  " 
of  Carlyle.  Will  some  reader  of  *  N.  &  Q/  say 
where  the  word  occurs  in  Carlyle's  writings  ? 
Sknoa. 

SEARCHERS  OF  LEATHER. 
(9^^  S.  vii.  48.) 

Searchers  of  leather  exercised  their  func- 
tions by  the  authority  of  various  Acts  of 
Parliament.  The  principal  Act  was  passed 
in  5  Elizabeth,  cap.  8.  It  regulated  the 
dressing  of  leather,  and  imposed  conditions 
upon  sale  and  use.  The  clauses  relating  to 
searchers  (abridged)  read  as  follows  :— 

"  And  be  it  further  enacted  for  ye  trewe  exe- 
cution of  this  estatute,  yt  ye  Maire  «  aldermen  of 
ye  City  of  London  uppon  payne  to  forfait  x\M  for 
euerie  vere  that  they  malke  default  [half  to  the 
Queen  &  half  to  the  informer]  shal  yearelv  appoint 
fower  or  more  expert  persons  to  be  searchers,  who 
shalbe  swome  to  do  their  office  truly.  Which  said 
serchers  shal  by  vertue  of  this  act  fower  times  in 
the  yere  at  ye  least  make  true  search  k  view  of  and 
for  all  bootes,  shoes  buskins  and  other  wares  and 
thinges  whatsoeuer  made  of  tanned  lether,  in  al  and 
euery  house  k  houses,  place  and  places  within,  & 
withm  iii  miles  of,  ye  saide  citie,  and  make  true 
presentment  in  writing  of  euery  default  in  the 
making,  selling  or  putting  to  sale  of  any  boots, 
buskins,  startups,  snoes,  bridles,  saddles  or  other 
things,  stuffe  or  ware  made  of  lether  contrary  to 
the  true  meaning  of  this  estatut." 

Then  follows  a  clause  which  answers  Mr. 
Phillips's  question  :— 

"All  other  Mayors,  Ac,  &  al  Lordes  of  liberties, 
f aires  and  markets  shal  uppon  like  paine  of  x\.li 
euery  yeare  that  they  make  default,  appoint  & 
swere  yerely  ii,  Iii,  or  more  personnes,  of  tne  most 
honest  &  skilfull  men  within  their  seueral  offices  or 
liberties,  by  their  discretion  to  serch  and  viewe 
within  ^e  precinct  of  theire  said  offices,  liberties  and 
aucthorities ;  and  shal  haue  a  marke  or  soale  pre- 
pared for  that  purpose  and  shal  seale  or  mark  such 
lether  as  they  shal  find  sufficient  and  no  other.  And 
if  the  sayd  searchers  or  any  of  them  do  find  anie 
leather  sold,  or  offred  to  be  sold  or  bought,  to  be 
searched  or  marked,  insufficiently  tanned  or  curried, 
or  any  bootes,  buskis,  shoes,  startuppes,  slippers, 
brydles,  saddles  or  any  thing  made  of  leather  in- 
sufficiently tanned  curried  or  wrought,  it  shalbe 
lawful  to  the  searchers  to  sease  as  forfaited  al  such 
leather,  Bhoe%  and  wares  made  of  lether,  and  retaine 
the  same  until  the  same  be  tried  by  sixe  expert  men 
appointed  by  such  m&ior,  lord  of  libertie  or  Vvis 
aumcieDt  depatye,  the  said  triall  to  be  within  ftfteeu 


daies  after  such  seysour  at  ye  furthest  upon  ye 
othes  of  the  said  triers." 

Leather  and  leather  goods  forfeited  in  Lon- 
don and  three  miles  beyond  were  to  be  valued 
in  Guildhall,  and  the  value  divided  into  three 
parts  and  distributed— one-third  to  the  seizer, 
one-third  to  the  Corporation,  and  the  remainder 
among  the  poor  of  **the  newe  Hospital  of 
Saint  Bartholomews  "and  other  Door  houses 
holders,  at  the  discretion  of  the  Mayor  and 
four  aldermen.  Similar  goods  forfeited  in 
the  country  were  to  be  valued  in  common 
hall  (if  a  borough),  or  in  some  open  place 
appointed  by  the  lord  of  the  liberty  where 
no  common  nail  existed,  and  the  value  dis- 
tributed in  thirds:    (1)  to  the  first  seizen 

(2)  to  the  poor  and  in  deeds  of  charity,  and 

(3)  to  the  commonalty  or  the  lords  of  the 
liberty,  as  the  case  might  be : — 

"And  be  it  enacted  that  al  iustices  of  assise,  of 
gaol  deliuerye  &  of  the  peace  and  stewardes  of 
f  raunchises,  leetes  and  lawoaies  within  their  seueral 
precinct«,  jurisdictions  &  liberties,  and  the  Maior  of 
London  &  al  other  maiors  bailifes  &c.  shal  enouire 
of  al  the  premisses  in  theire  sessions,  leet  or  lawdaye, 
and  here  &  determine  the  same.'' 

The  foregoing  extracts  are  from  '  RastalFs 
Statutes,'  1679,  and  the  variations  in  spelling, 
and  the  apparently  indifferent  use  of  "  an<P 
and  "<k,"  arise  from  the  exigencies  of  the 
compositor,  working  with  a  large-faced  black 
letter  on  a  double-columned  octavo  page. 
RiCHD.  Welford. 

Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 


Wine  in  the  Early  Christian  Church 
(9***  S.  vii.  4,  135).— Ci/STOS  is  mistaken  in  his 
quotation.  I  did  not  use  the  phrase  *'earlv 
Acts  "  which  he  attributes  to  ma  My  words 
are  "that  very  curious  early  Christian  romance 
the  *  Acts  of  Xanthippe  and  Polyxena.'"  That, 
I  think,  is  an  accurate  description  of  the 
document  I  was  quoting.  My  note  was  in- 
tended, if  possible,  to  elicit  information,  and 
not  to  provoke  controversy. 

William  E.  A.  Axon. 

Manchester. 

Quotations  (9"»  S.  vi.  489 ;  vii.  74).— "Est 
rosa  flos,"  (fee.  The  version  given  as  from 
Burmann  appears  to  be  incorrect.  Burmann 
in  his  *  Anthologia '  (1773),  lib.  v.  ep.  217,  gives 
the  following : — 
Est  rosa  iios  Veneris,  cujus  quo  furta  laterent>, 

Harpocrati  matris  dona  dicavit  Amor. 

Inde  rosam  mensis  hospes  susi>endit  amici, 

Convivse  ut  sub  ea  dicta  tacenda  sciant. 

It  also  appears  in  Wernsdorf 's  *  Poet«  Latini 
Minores,  Lemaire's  edition,  Paris,  1 826,  vol.  vii. 
\^5.    "  Amicia^"  however,  takes  the  place  of 


Y 


9-*  8.  viL  mabch  2. 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QXJERIES. 


171 


dm^;   sed    Stuckius    rectiua    amicis,"     The 
authoi*  of  the  epigram  api>ears  to  be  unknown. 
In  additioii  toinfarrnation  already  printed, 
I  Dot©  that  '"Dg  male  quEesitis  non  gaudet 
tertiua  hjeim"  may  bo  found  in  the  'Adagia' 
of  Erasmus  and  others^  ».v,  **  Ultio  malefacti  '* 
(p.  729  of  the  edition  of  1670).   It  also  appears 
on  p.  77a    Compare  "  Male  partoni  di^perit " 
tPkutUi, '  P(Kn,,'IV.  ii.  22) :  abo  **  Male  parta, 
male  diJabuntur"  (quoted  byCieem/Fhilipp/ 
^  ^^\§  %  *^™  ^  Pt^et  "  neseio  quem/'  attri- 
buted by  Festua,  'DeVerborumSignificatioDe/ 
lib,  xiv^  g^^  *  Partus/  to  Ntevius); 

-Robert  Pieepoint* 
tWlea  V,  saying  of  Luther:  "I  war  not 
with  the  dead.'*  You  will  find  the  required 
merences  in  *Der  TreppeHwitz  der  Welt- 
Kmhichte,'  von  W,  L.  Hertslet,  3  Auflage^ 
Berlin,  1886.  Dil  G.  Kruegek 

Jferbo. 

[Tfee  MutimeQi  is  Tirgirft  ^— 
KaUuin  cum  victia  oertfcmeii  et  aethare  cmm. 
*^iieid/  XI.  im.] 

Tffi  DRESDEtf  Amen  (9^^  S.  vii.  87).— Before 
considering  the  history  of  an  expreaaion,  one 
must  aa^rtain  that  the  expression  exista. 
^t  is  the  Dresden  Amen  ?  Is  it  religious, 
»m  used  in  the  primary  sense  of  the  main 
^oiri^orin  a  aecondan'  sensei  as  associated 
^m  the  teoets  of  the  Gnostics  1  Is  it  fieura- 
ti^  and  bearing  upon  Napoleon's  military 
e^riences  at  Dre*»den,  which  nearly  proved 
dmJ  for  hira  I  U  it  artistic,  as  applied  to 
Mine  Dresden  gallery  presentment  of  the 
%ptian  god  Amen,  Amun,  or  Ammon  T  Or 
tt  It  a  raifitake  for  "  Annen-/  which  occurs  five 
ftrnei  m  combinations  of  street  or  place  names 
^  Uitsdeo  1  Upwards  of  two  hours'  unsatia- 
^tfity  research  prompts  one  to  ask  for  a 
*«^  reference.  Abthur  May  all. 

AmLL  ISLAKP  (9'*'  S.  vi,  489;  Vll.  36,  133). 
^ihe  present  written  form  of  this  place- 
°*n^  i*  undoubtedly  a  result  of  the  angli- 
^M  process  of  writing  Gaelic  names  as 
Pronoanced.  With  due  deference  to  Canon 
Uitioe'b  guess  (anU^  p.  36),  I  would  suggest 
^fttt  aeuil  ( =  eagle)  is  a  more  probable 
wn^atbn.  Albert  Go  ugh. 

^Bhododekdkoss  and  Oleanbers  (9«"  S. 
^88, 117).— Modern  travellers  have  shown 
™  10  Keble's  note  **  rhofJodendruna"  ia  a 
S^takefor  "oleanders/'  See,  for  example, 
ine  '  ■ "  " 
History  of 


f^kf^'Sinm  and  Palestine,''! 860,  ^^3717^; 
m^tmia^s  'N'atural    H'»>^«-"''''^  '^f  fr^^"   i*;ui«* 


417, 


the   Bible,* 
J-  T.  F. 


l^rrENDENT  Company  of  Inyalids 


(9'^ 


Chester  in  November  of  1757  a  company  of 
in%^alida  was  imported  into  the  town,  and  as 
they  received  (and  returned)  nome  rough 
usage,  they  were  not  so  decrepit  as  their 
name  might  imply.  Richard  Lawbon. 

Urtiiston. 

Funeral  Cards  (9*^  S.  vii.  88).- Printed 
tickets  were  issued  to  those  invited  to  attend 
the  funeral  of  0 livery  the  Lord  Protector. 
Copies  are  very  rare.  I  have  seen  one  in 
private  hands,  and  I  think  there  is  another 
in  the  British  Museum  Library,  but  of  this 
I  am  not  quite  certain.  lo  the  interesting 
collection  oi  printed  broadsides  in  the  library 
of  the  Society  of  Antiquarian  there  is  a 
funeral  ticket  dated  30  September,  170S.  It 
is  thus  describe  in  the  catalogue  :— 

'*610,  Funeml  ticket,  seakd  and  addressed  to 
Mr,  John  Hodgetta,  desiring  hira  to  ftceom|mriy 
the  CorpB  of  Robert  Foley ,  Eeq.*  to  the  Church 
of  Old  Swinford." 

I  have  before  me  one  of  these  tickets 
inviting  my  collateral  ancestor  Samuel 
Woodruife  to  the  funeral  of  Mr,  N.  Dealtry,  of 
Gainsborough,  which  took  place  in  the  parish 
church  of  that  town  on  Thursday,  16  March, 
1758,  It  is  grimly  pictorial ;  black  hangings, 
banners,  a  skeleton  with  hourglass  and  dart, 
and  Time  with  his  scythe  a  ad  symbolic 
serpent,  surround  the  inscription.  At  the 
base  is  a  funeral  procession.  This  ticket 
was  issued  "  by  W.  Stephenson,  Undertaker^ 
opposite  Exeter  Exchange  in  the  Strand." 
Edward  Peac?ock. 

DuQStivti  Houa^T  Kirton  in-Liodsey. 

The  Area  of  CnuRcn yards  (9*'^'  S.  vii,  % 
112). — The  church  at  Norton,  ne^r  Evesham, 
stands  in  a  grass  field  which  forms  part  of  the 
glebe.  Until  about  1844  there  was  no  fence 
or  mark,  except  at  the  east  end,  to  separate 
the  churchyard,  which  could  only  be  known, 
and  that  but  in  part,  by  the  grave- mounds. 
At  the  date  mentioned  a  sunk  fence  was 
made  on  the  south,  but  to  this  day  the  only 
1x)undary  on  the  north  and  w&nt  la  an  iron 
hurdle-fence,  fixed  and  maintained  by  the 
vicar  of  his  own  accoi^,  at  his  own  expense, 
and  existing  only  at  his  will.  One  is  re- 
minded of  Wordsworth's  description  : — 

Where  holy  ground  begins,  unhallowed  ends, 

In  marked  by  no  distinguishable  line. 

W.  C.  B. 

**Clubbin(;  the  battalion  "  (9^  S.  vii.  110). 
— This  was  tho  technical  phrase  for  inverting 
or  altering  the  order  of  companies  in  field 
evolutions,  in  days  when  the  consecutive 
numbers  of  companieii  weni  '^TKjeA,    \t\  HJw^ 


K  ^■'^^''*'•^'^^  *  ^jBiirtM^  I    ur    ±rt  vjLuiua  {^'-  t  present  field  exercise  da^ibm^  \^  \m^c^^^, 
'^n.m,  im^-^Banng  m  food  riot  in  Man-  j  When  the  relative  poiVuon  ol  com^i^mea'm 


172 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [»*  s.  vil  march  2,  iwi. 


battalion  or  sections  in  a  company  is  changed, 
as  constantly  happpna,  the  order  is  restored 
by  telling  off  the  battalion  or  company 
afreah,  Heblbejit  Maxwell. 

Definition  of  Gratitude  (9*"^  S.  vii,  89, 
138).— Madame  de  S6v\f^n6  wrote  in  1(171 
(Letter  156):  *' L*in gratitude  attire  les 
reproches,  com  me  la  reconnaissance  attire 
de  nouveaux  bienfaits."  V.  R 

One  of  La  Rochefoucault'a  maxims  (305) 
is  "Gratitude  with  most  men  is  a  strong 
secret  desire  to  receive  greater  benefits. 
Another  one  (230)  hq.a  practically  the  same 
idea,  "  Gratitude  in  often  like  the  honesty  of 
traders  :  we  pay  our  debta  to  get  future 
credit"  Constance  Russell. 

8  wall  Oft' field,  Reading. 

"The  power  of  the  imo"  (p^^B.  vii.  106> 
— Mn.  Axon  hm  hardly  recognized  the  mean- 
ing of  the  cardinaVa  reference  to  the  Gospel 
of  St.  John*  That  portion  of  the  first  chapter 
wliich  deals  with  the  mystery  of  the  Incar- 
nation, **Verbnm  caro  factum  est,"  was 
nsed  as  a  charm  against  wit<^hcraft,  posses- 
sion, storms,  evil  eye,  Ac  See  *  N.  ife  Q.,' 
&^  B-  viii.  490  ;  ix.  37,  156,  215  ;  9^  S.  iv.  515, 
where  references  to  interesting  instances  may 
be  found.  W.  C,  B. 

GoVERNOH  HATKEa-S  GRANDFATHER  (9*^  S. 

vi.  88,  515)-— I  missed  the  first  of  these  queries 
or  would  have  answered  it  sooner^  as  I  sup- 
pose £  am  batter  posted  in  the  various  Haines 
genealogies  of  England  than  any  one  eke 
livings  I  have  long  pedigrees  of  the  Heading 
family  and  of  the  Herts  and  Essex  family. 
Nicholas  Haynes  was  certainly  not  the  father 
of  Governor  John,  as  he  only  left  one  son, 
Richard,  who  was  buried^  as  your  corre- 
spondent observes,  21  April,  1634.  Richard 
left  only  a  daughter,  Susan,  who  married 
Edward  Hopkioson  in  1631,  One  daughter 
of  Nicholas  married  into  the  Kay  family  of 
Woodsotti,  Yorks.  Nicholas  and  his  brothers 
John,  William  I  and  Thomas  were  Yeomen  of 
the  Guard  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  held 
%'arious  offices  under  her  as  Purveyor  of  Sea 
Fish,  Sergeant  of  Catery,  Yeoman  of  the 
Toils,  Purveyor  of  Grain,  Overseer  of  Mea- 
dows. The  other  brother,  Christopher,  was 
an  in  o  keeper  at  Arnndeh  None  left  children, 
unle^ss  it  were  WilKam,  if  he  is  to  be  iden  titled 
with  the  William  Haynes,  citizen  and  mer- 
chant tailor  of  St  Dunstan  in-therEasfc,  who 
left  a  lar^e  and  fiourishing  family  (to  whom 
tlie  Beoedict  and  Henry  mentioneil  belonged) 
d/  HAclrney  and  Chisini^don  and  Godstone. 
This  family  also  died  out  in  male  line,  Thoma- 


(at  the  age  of  fourteen)^  coming  in  ae  heir  to 
iier  brothers 

The   name    Haines  (in  various  spellings) 
occurs  in  Essex  and  Herts  from  the  earliest 
times.    Governor  Haynes's  graDdfather  was 
probably  John  Haynes  of  "  ye  Milles,"  Much 
Hadhan^,  wliose  will  (20  July,  1551,  proved 
m  October,  155-)  is  in  the  Commissary  Court 
of  Essex  and  Herts.    Governor  John's  father 
would  then  lie  George  Haynea(will  9  Novem- 
ber, 1584,  proved    4  January,  1584/5)  by  an 
earlier  wife  than  Agnes  Alles,  of  Aldbury, 
whom  he  married  by  licence  in  1571,    There 
is  a  great  deal  to  be  found  out  about  this 
family  from  the  Manor  BoUs  of  Much  Had- 
ham  and  neighbouring  manors,  as  well  as 
from    the    various    church    registers.     The 
Haines  wills  in  the  P.C.C.  and  Es^ex  and 
Herts  Courts  are  quite  numerous.    The  name 
appears  from  the  earliest  times  with  the  "a.** 
Both  the  Reading  and  Essex  families  used 
the  arms,  with  crescents  and   the  heron  as 
crest.     Richard    Haines,    of   Rea*ling,  very 
possibly  came    from    Essex  or  Hert^s.     My 
own  family  has  used  a  coat  identical  with 
that  of  Hezekiah  Haynes,  major-general  of 
Cromwell's   army,   since  1680.      I    shall   be 
happy  to  give  any  of  your  correspondents 
further  particulars  on  any  subject  connected 
with  the  name  Haines,  or  1  can  refer  them 
to  my  book  published  last  year  and  reviewed 
in  your  columns.  C.  Reo,  Ha  INKS. 

Uppingham. 

William  Moreis  ab  a  Man  of  Business 
(9*^  S.  vi.  406,  495  ;  vii.  54, 118),— iBAuyA  saya, 
"It  is  somewhat  unlucky  to  speak  of  Dr. 
Swift  as  though  he  had  no  I'egard  for  detail, 
and  thus  bracket  him  with  the  foolish  man 
in  Job."  He  has  missed  the  point  of  my 
communication.  These  two  were  put  together 
not  on  account  of  their  own  regard,  or  dis- 
regard, of  details,  but  because  they  both 
spoke  as  if  it  were  part  of  the  necessary 
magniiicence  of  God's  character  wholly  to 
neglect  them.  Doubtless  the  dean*s  regard 
for  his  dinner  made  him  anxious  to  beneve 
that  God  did  not  regard  it.  W.  C.  B. 

'*  Wise  "  (9^^  B.  vii.  45).— I  fear  that  your 
genial  correspondent  is  labouring  under 
something  like  a  delusion  as  to  this  word. 
He  dties  me  too  much  honour,  I  modestly 
disclaim  the  credit  of  "  manufacturing  "  A.-S. 
MFtac=  meadow  land  (marshy  or  otherwiseX  for 
the  simple  but  sufficient  reason  that  it  occure 
in  several  A.-B>  land -charters,  and  reappearB^ 
as  wyssk^  in  Middle- English  documents,  i& 
duly  recorded  in  the  latest  published  part^ 
of  Prof,  Toller's  *  Anglo-Saxon   Dictionary,* 


^/j^  who  tn&rried  John  Evelyiij  of  QodatOQe\w^fe  bi^  te&ax«iwra&  1<k  vta  oocurrauoe  aro 


»*  8.  VIL  March  2, 1901.]      NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


173 


given  in  both  the  Tranmctiotis  of  the  Philo- 
logical Society  (Lonclon)  for  1898  and  Anglm^ 
vol.  XX.  1898/  valuable  periodical  publications, 
which  your  corresponcfent  may  see,  but  appa- 
reotly  does  liot  read.  Then  there  is,  besides, 
tb©  indisputable  evideDce  of  place-names 
(and  surnames)  embodying  or  consisting  of 
the  word  both  in  England  and,  as  to  the 
eontinental  equivalent,  in  Low  Qerman  dis- 
tricts. 

When  your  correspondent  objects  to  my 
etymological ly  dividing  kiwisc  or  higtmsc 
thus :  hiig)-wi$c^  he  is  on  somewhat  firmer 
pound,  for  Eluge,  in  his  '  Stammbildungs- 
whre,'  took  the  suffix  here  to  be  -t^c;  but 
that  was  so  long  ago  as  1886,  and  I  contend 
tiiat  the  bal&nce  of  the  evidence  and  all  the 
mbability  are  now  in  favour  of  our  "  Huiah  *' 
l*nd-uamea  containing  the  A^-S.  land* word 
yic,  not  merely  the  adjectival  suffix  -uc. 
YoGir  correspondent  mentions  hiw-scipe,  but 
Iw  i|nore3  the  fact  that  the  word  is  also  found 
«  kf-icipe  (just  as  A/wo^member  of  a  family, 
ftb  occurs  aa  kiga},  &nd  that  kiwi^  m  like- 
wise found  with  -gw~^ 

The  objection  to  the  comparison  with  Low 
Oenuan  wiscki  or  ttfM^?r=modern  High  Ger- 
iDio  WuM^  '*  meadowland/^  is  frivolous  and 
JfboUy  uncalled  for.  I  wonder  what  Jelling- 
nana,  one  of  the  collaborators  in  PauFa  great 
*Qnindriss '  of  Oermanic  philology  and  a 
Low  German  specialist  living  in  a  Low  Ger- 
fflma  district,  would  say  to  it !  In  the  article 
in  Anglia^  1898,  already  referred  to,  he 
loauuces,  under  A.-S.  wise^  several  Low  Ger- 
^n  place-names  in  m^i^  and  wtgc/u^  and 
rightly  ignorea  KlugeV  theoretical  Low  Qer- 
■mo  wms.  It  seems  to  me  that  some  of  our 
*tyiB<5logigt8  require  to  take  to  heart  a  recent 
^ttersDco  of  one  of  our  most  eminent  Old 
i^gitsh  scholars.    He  says  :-- 

/*1|he  ret&tion  of  fuodamcn tally  kindred  stgnifioa- 
tim  baa  not  yet  been  syatematicd^lly  studied  to  any 
Jflfficient  extent,  and  until  this  la  done  and  phib- 
wgtet*  leave  off  *  taking  care  of  the  Bounds  and 
'^^^Mltiie  tenA«  take  care  of  jtfteU,'  there  muat  be 
^y*t«ol  coDtraversy  and  unscientific  method  amid 
*"wi  parade  of  rigour  and  uniformity." 

It  oiusty  I  am  afraid,  Ije  said  that  your 
jsteimed  corresjpondent's  opinions  would 
^wpire  respect  in  a  much  g reciter  degrt« 
«*Q  they  do  if  they  did  not  so  often  carry 
^taintof  over-haste  and  ill -consideration, 
Ja  coniequently  result  in  more  or  lesa 
traded  withdrawal  Excessive  recantation 
•*ist  to  show  philology  in  a  bad  light  to  the 
stines.  Hv,  Hakbison. 


«ttl«7. 


thn  Zekschrifl  /  deuische  PhUologie^ 


St.  Clement  Dakks  (9"^  S.  vii.  64).— In  a 
work  by  J,  J.  A.  Worsaae,  F.S.A.,  entitled  *  An 
Account  of  the  Danes  and  Norwegians  in 
England.  Scotland,  and  Ireland/  London, 
1852,  the  following  remarks  are  made  upon 
our  Danish  invaders  and  their  connexion 
with  the  foundation  of  the  church  of 
St.  Clement  Danes  :— 

"  ApproiMjhing  the  city  from  the  west-end,  through 
the  ^rea^t  atreet  called  'the  gtratid/  we  aee^  clo«e 
oBtside  the  old  gate  of  Temple  Bar,  a  church  caltod 
St*  Clement  Danes,  from  which  the  surrounding 
pariah  derives  ita  name.  In  the  early  part  of  the 
middle  agea  thi«  church  wa*  called  in  Latin 
*  Eccteaja  Samti  Clemeotia  Danornm,'orthe  Dauea' 
Church  of  t^t.  Clement.  It  was  here  that  the  Danes 
in  London  formerly  had  their  burial-plaee,  in  which 
reposed  the  reniflioa  of  Canute  the  (.Treat's  won  and 
successor,  Harold  Harefoot,  When,  in  1040,  Hardi- 
canute  ascended  the  throne  after  his  brother  Harold^ 
he  caused  Harold's  eorpee  to  be  diainterred  from  ita 
tomb  in  Westminster  Abbey  and  thrown  Into  the 
Thames,  where  it  was  found  by  a  fisherman,  and 
after wardii  buried,  it  is  aaid,  *  in  the  Danes'  church* 
5^ard  in  London/  From  the  churchyard  it  was 
subsequently  removed  into  a  round  tower  which 
ornamented  the  church  before  tt  was  rebuilt  at  the 
<tlc*e  of  the  seventeenth  eentury.  It  has,  indef^d, 
been  supposed  by  some  that  this  church  was  called 
after  the  Danes  only  because  ao  nmnv  Danes  have 
been  buried  in  it ;  hut  &i  it  in  situated  close  by  the 
Thames,  and  must  have  originally  lain  ontside  the 
dty  walls,  in  the  weatem  suburbs^  and  ooii<5equently 
outside  of  London  proper,  it  is  certainly  put  beyond 
all  doubt  that  the  Danish  merchants  and  mariners 
who,  for  the  sake  of  trade,  were  at  that  time 
eatabliahed  in  or  near  London,  had  there  a  place  of 
their  own  m  which  they  dwelt  tegether  as  fellow 
countrymen.  Here  it  ahould  also  oe  remarked  that 
this  church,  like  others  in  commerciat  towns^  aA, 
for  instance,  at  Aarhuus,  in  Jutland,  at  Trondhiera, 
in  Norway,  and  even  in  the  City  uf  London  [in  East- 
cheap),  waa  consecrat-od  Xi^  St.  Clementj,  who  waa 
especially  the  aeaman*s  ]:»atron  s&tnt.  The  Danes 
natui^lly  preferred  t^^  bury  their  dcmd  in  thia 
church,  which  was  their  proper  parish  church." 

EvEBA.fiD  Home  Coleman. 

71 1  Brecknock  Road. 

"  Knievooue  "  (a**"  S.  vii.  69), -If  Mr.  May- 
hew  will  refer  to  a  little  volume  of  mine, 
*  Jacob  at  Bethel/  p- 101  (he  will  find  it  in  the 
BodleianX  he  will  seeaome  notice  of  thi^  fetiah 
and  its  place  in  folk-lore.  The  absurd  spelling 
kniet^ofpie  see  ma  to  stand  for  neevoge^  which 
I  suppose  in  Irij^H  would  be  neamh-ogh^  con- 
nectea  with  neamh^  heaven,  and  meaning 
**the  little  sacred  thing." 

A.  Smytbe  Palmer. 

S,  Woodford. 

Daecv  Lever  (9**  S.  viL  U  73).— I  posiaeaa 
a  copy  of  Darcy  Lever's  w^ork  referr^dl  to  by 
;  Mr.  Ralpe  Thomas.  The  fuU  title  is  ^The 
.  Young  Sea  Office r'8  Sheet  AnchoT^  cue,  ^.  1^^ 
'  to  the  Leading  of  lligvi^u^  «iw\  U*  ^VTarfiXAssait 
j  Soamaaship,'    Londoti,  \W^.    Oxi^  oV   \N\^ 


174 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9-»8.vii. 


tables  of  contents  is  headed  *  Seamanship,' 
and  another  *  A  Key  to  Ringing  and  Seaman- 
ship. Mr.  Kent  was  therefore,  I  think, 
justified  m  describing  the  work  as  **  Lever's 
Seamanship." 

Doubtless  the  one  hundred  and  eleven 
tull-pa,ge  illustrations  are  on  copper,  for 
liinperJev,  in  his  *  History  of  Printers  and 
PnntinK,'  says :  "  Messrs.  Perkins  &  Co.,  of 
rhiladelphia,  introduced  into  liondon,  in  the 
y^."*  1819,  a  mode  of  engraving  on  soft  steel, 
which,  when  hardened,  will  multiply  fine 
impressions  indefinitely." 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Mr.  Kent  appears  to  equate  Kent  with 
Q went,  which  is  generally  traced,  like  Kennet, 
to  Celtic  ceann,  a  head,  while  Gwent  is  very 
possibly  a  survival  of  Venta.  But  who  was 
''PliS  ^^  Gwent  1  Are  we  to  abstract  the  town 
of  Ghent  from  Belgium  ? 

Admiral  Sir  George  Strong  Nares  derives 
from  the  justice,  also  Sir  George,  who  died 
in  1786,  having  married  Mary,  daughter  of 
Sir  John  Strange,  Master  of  the  Rolls ;  hence 
the  baptismal  name,  not  inherited  by  Dr.  James 
Nares  the  musician,  a  younger  brother  of 
the  justice,  nor,  by  consequence,  by  Arch- 
deajcon  Robert  Nares,  F.R.S.,  I  believe  the 
'*  Glossarist,"  who  was  the  musician's  son. 

These  details  are  from  a  p^igree  kindly 
furnished  to  me  by  the  admiral,  with  whom 
I  claim  a  family  connexion.  A.  H. 

Mr.  Philip  Kent  will  find  a  curious 
eflFusion,  ascribed  on  contemporary  authority 
to  his  kinsman  Archdeacon  Nares,  in  Tuck- 
welFs  *  Reminiscences  of  Oxford,'  p.  180. 

P. 

Public  Mourning  (9^^  g  y^  i5o)._A  re- 
markable feature  during  the  present  mourn- 
ing was  the  retaining  of  the  black  shutters 
at  the  places  of  business  on  the  day  after  the 
burial  of  the  Queen  at  Windsor ;  and  in  some 
cases  they  were  not  taken  down  for  several 
days  beyond.  There  seems  to  have  been  a 
general  reluctance  to  remove  these  outward 
signs  of  sorrow.  N.  S.  S. 

DuTTON  Family  (9*^  g  ^i  409^  g^y  ^^  ^^ 
117).— I  think  that  there  can  be  little  doubt 
that,  with  one  exception,  the  four  esquires  of 
Lord  Audley  at  Poitiers  afterwards  bore  the 
fret  as  part  of  their  arms,  but  I  do  not  think 
the  Duttons  bore  a  fret  because  a  Dutton 
was  one  of  these  esquires. 

In  the  first  place,  is  it  not  questionable 
whether  they  would  have  been  allowed  to 
bear  the  fret  as  a  quartering?  for  it  would 
-^nftar  as  if  their  claim  to  bear  it  so  was  from 


having  married  an  heiress  whose  father  bore 
this  fret.  Further,  the  arms  of  Dutton  of 
Hatton  were  Quarterly,  argent  and  gules: 
in  the  second  and  thira  a  fret  argent.  Ana 
Gules,  a  fret  argent,  were  not  tne  Audley 
arms,  but  the  arms  of  the  very  ancient  family 
of  Le  Fleming. 

Then,  again,  the  fact  that  the  Lords  De- 
spencer  bore  before  Poitiers  Quarterly,  argent 
and  gules,  second  and  third  a  fret  or,  over  all  a 
bend  sable,  would  point  to  there  having  been 
a  family  who  bore  these  arms  without  the 
bend  sable.  What  family  was  this?  Most 
likely  it  was  Dutton,  for  we  find  that  some  of 
the  Cheshire  Duttons  bore  Quarterly,  argent 
and  gules;  in  the  first  and  fourth  a  bend 
sable,  in  the  second  and  third  a  fret  or, 
while  other  Cheshire  Duttons  bore  Quarterly, 
argent  and  gules,  over  all  a  bend  saola 

I  have  long  thought  that  the  tradition  that 
Sir  Thomas  Dutton  of  Dutton  was  one 
of  Lord  Audley's  esouires  arose  from  the 
Duttons  bearing  a  tret  in  their  arms.  I 
cannot  find  any  proof  that  they  held  under 
the  Audleys.  Who  then  were  the  four 
esquires  ?  Were  they  not  Sir  John  Delves  of 
Delves  and  Doddiugton.  Sir  John  Hawk- 
stone  of  Wrinehill  and  Astbury,  Sir  Robert 
Fouleshurst  of  Barthomley,  and  (Sir)  Richard 
de  Snede  of  Snede  and  Tunstall  and  Brad- 
well?  Delves  bore  the  Audley  fret  on  the 
chevron,  Hawkstone  on  the  fesse.  Foules- 
hurst in  the  field.  Sir  John  Delves  was 
the  son  of  Richard  de  Delves,  the  con- 
stable of  Lord  Audley's  castle  of  Helegh, 
in  Staffordshire,  and  I  think  he  himself 
held  also  the  same  post,  and  held  lands  under 
the  Audleys.  The  Hawkstones  held  under 
the  Audleys,  near  the  latter's  castle  of  Red 
Castle,  in  Shropshire.  Barthomley,  the  home 
of  the  Fouleshursts,  was  close  to  Helegh 
Castle,  and  I  think  the^  also  held  lands 
under  the  Audleys.  With  respect  to  the 
Sneyds,  the  late  Ralph  Sneyd  of  Keele  used 
to  say  that  he  had  proof  that  Richard  de 
Snede  was  one  of  the  four  esquires  of  Lord 
Audley  at  Poitiers.  You  will  see  what  I  say 
is  confirmed  in  Ward's  'History  of  Stoke- 
upon-Trent,*  p.  79.  In  an  old  pedigree  of  the 
Trenthams  or  Rocester  Richard  oe  Snede  is 
said  to  have  been  one  of  these  esquires;  and 
this  pedigree  being  about  three  hundred  vears 
old,  the  tradition,  it  would  seem,  was  in  being 
within  two  hundred  and  fifty  years  after 
Poitiers.  But  why  did  not  the  Sneyds  bear 
in  their  shield  the  Audley  fret  ?  Because  they 
had  a  right  to  use  the  Audley  arms,  viz..  Gules, 
a  fret  or,  being  descended  in  the  male  hne 
from  Liulf  de  Alditheley.  Also  Richard  de 
Snede  might  have  quartered  the  arms,  as  hia 


9-8.vilmaboh2.i9oi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


175 


mother  was  Idonia,  the  daughter  and  heiress 
of  Qiles  de  Audlev,  the  executor  of  the  will 
and  supposed  brother  of  Nicholas,  third  Lord 
Audley.  So  it  was  that  Richard  de  Snede, 
instead  of  bearing  a  fret  in  his  arms,  bore 
the  fleur-de-lis  on  the  fesse  point  by  the  side 
of  the  handle  or  "sned  "  of  the  scythe.  The 
Snevds  held  all  their  lands  under  the 
Aucileys,  and  when  they  made  grants  to 
Hulton  Abbey  they  alwavs  did  so  with  the 
"assent"  of  the  "chief  lord"  Audley  or 
Alditheley.  Even  to  this  day  Ralph  Sneyd 
of  Keele  is,  I  believe.  Lord  Audley  by  tenure. 

I  ought  to  have  mentioned  that  the 
Chanus  or  Cheyneys  of  Wighterston,  in 
Cheshire,  bore  tne  Audley  fret  in  a  bend, 
Sir  Alan  Cheyney  being  one  of  the  heroes  of 
Poitiers.  G.  Sneyd. 

Chastleton,  Oxon. 

I  do    not   think    the    exploits   of    Lord 
Audley  and  his  four  esquires  at  the  battle  of 
Poictiers  should  be  considered  a  legend,  in- 
asmuch as  they  are  most  circumstantially 
related   by  Froissart  and  other  historians. 
The  fact  that  the  names  of  the  esquires  are 
not  given  by  Froissart  does  not  make  the 
story  less  authentic.    Dr.  Gk)wer  gives  their 
names  as  Dutton  of  Dutton,  Delves,  Foul- 
hurst,  and  Hawkestone,  and  states  that  Lord 
Audley  requested  them  to  bear  on  some  part 
of  their  coat  of  arms  his  own  proper  achieve- 
ment, Oules,  a  fret  or.    It  seems  to  me  that 
there   ought   to   be   no  great   difficulty  in 
proving   whether    they  complied  with    his 
request ;  and  if  it  can  be  shown  that  the 
families  named  did  not  use  the  fret  until 
alter  the  battle  of  Poictiers,  the  coincidence 
would  be  so  remarkable  as  to  prove  con- 
clusively that  the  fret  was    used  in    com- 
memoration of  the  battle.    I  have  seen  the 
following  description  of  the  Dutton  coat  of 
arm« :  Quarterly,  gules  and  azure ;  in  the 
QTSt  and  fourth  quarters  two  lions  passant 
w  (by  riffht  of  descent  from  RoUo,  Duke  of 
Normandy) ;  in  the  second  and  third  quarters 
a  fret  or.    Crest,  Out  of  a  ducal  coronet  or  a 
piome  of  five  ostrich  feathers,  argent,  azure, 
or,  vert,  and  gules.  Over  the  crest  ^*  Poictiers.*' 
Motto,  "Servabo  fidem."    This  surely  points 
jo  a  Dutton  having  been  at  Poictiers.    Sir 
^mas  Dutton  was  forty-one  years  old  at 
we  time  of  the  battle  (1366),  but  does  not 
*Ppear  to  have  been  knighted  until  1362.    It 
j^possible  that  he  may  have  been  the  esquire 
'Bferred  to  by  Dr.  Qower.    In  a  deed  dated 
J341  he  is  described  as  "  equitator,"  whatever 
^t  may  mean.    He  was  Sheriff  of  Cheshire 
90  and  33  Edward  III.,  the  first  of  which 
«ftei  I  take  it  would  be  after  Poictiers.    I 
'Boald  be  ^fiad  to  hear  from  any  of  your 


readers  as  to  the  esouires  Delves,  Foulhurst. 
and   Hawkestone,  wno   served    under  Lorcl 
Audley  in  the  battle.      Charles  Stewart. 
22,  Gloucester  Road,  Stoke  Newington,  N. 

Visitation  of  Suffolk  (9*^^^  S.  vi.  509).— 
The  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  1664,  was  finished 
in  1668.  According  to  Gatfield's  *  Guide  to 
Heraldic  Works,'  the  MS.  of  Bysshe's  Visi- 
tation, 1672,  is  in  the  British  Museum  (Harl. 
MS.  1103),  which,  if  complete  and  as  exten- 
sive as  that  of  1664,  would  be  the  better  one  to 
publish.  According  to  Gutch's  *  Collectanea 
Curiosa,'  vol.  ii.  p.  245,  Mr.  Fenn  had  another 
valuable  MS.  Under  *  Account  of  Visitation 
Books '  it  says : — 

"An  Alphabetical  list  of  the  Arms  and  Crests  of 
the  Gentry  of  the  County  of  Sufi'olk,  as  well 
ancient  as  modem,  collected  from  the  best  authors 
and  most  authentic  manuscripts  by  the  Rev.  Joseph 
Bokenham,  rector  of  Stoke  Ash  and  Little  Thorn- 
ham  in  Suffolk,  1713,  4to,  the  largest  collections  for 
this  county  perhaps  extant.  It  contains  a  list  of 
730  coats  of  arms.  A  true  copy,  1765,  with  addenda 
bv  Mr.  Fenn.  The  original  was  in  Mr.  Martin's 
library,  but  disposed  of  m  his  lifetime." 

If   this  could   be  found  and    published,  it 
would  be  of  use  to  the  inquiring  public. 

John  Radcliffe. 

Note  on  a  Passage  in  Chaucer's  '  Pro- 
logue '  (9^  S.  vi.  365, 434,  463  ;  vii.  30).— Prof. 
Skeat's  contention  that  there   is    no  proof 
that  the  g  in  ege^  &c.,  had  a  pronunciation  ap- 
proaching that  of  g  in  go  may  be  correct,  but 
there  is  some  evidence  that  it  had  that  sound 
or  the  sound  of  the  Dutch  g.    In  *H.E.D.,' 
with  regard  to  the  origin  of  drag,  the  follow- 
ing occurs  :    "  Perhaps  a  special    Northern 
dialect  form  in  whicn  the  g  has  been  pre- 
served instead  of  forming  a  diphthong  with 
the  preceding  a,  as  in    English  generally." 
Dighel  (*  H.ETl).')  is  given  in  several  forms, 
the  g  and  h  being  interchangeable  :  dygel^ 
difde,  dtgley  and,  as  late  as  1275,  digele  ;  also 
diegelnessa,  dihlice,  digelness,  digeliche^  dighell- 
ness,  dthelnessfy  and,  in  1275,  digenlicke.    From 
which  it  may  be  inferred  that  g  was  pro- 
nounced as  tne  Dutch  g.     The  contention 
that  the  g  changed  early,  universally,  and  in 
all  dialects,  is  untenable,  since  dtgel  retained 
it  till  1275.    It  also  involves  proving  an  im- 
possible negative — that  there  were  no  dialects 
but  what  are  now  accurately  known.    There 
are  three  possible  sources  from  which  Chaucer 
could  obtain  the  word  hrcegel :  A.-S.  manu- 
scripts, Latin  and  A.-S.  vocabularies,  peculiar 
dialects  of  which  there  are  no  written  records, 
in   which    the    word    remained    dissyllabic. 
Since  recchelees  is  the  only  word  unknown  in 
the  passage,  and  there  is  a  parallel  passage 
that  indicates  its  meaning,  it  should  not  be 


176 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [»*8.vn.MAROH2.i«oi. 


impossible  to  determine  the  word.  When 
probable  sources  yield  no  result,  possible  ones 
may  well  be  considered.  Eoketless  (roket, 
a  gown)  may  be  itientionefl ;  it  is  not  unlike 
recetkss^  proposed  by  Ten  Brink. 

A.  C.  W, 

"FiVK  o*CLOcK  tea":  When  Intedduced 
(9^  S.  vi.  446  ;  vii.  13,  96).— The  Westminster 
GazttU  of  23  January  (p.  2)  quotes  a  speech 
of  Jlr,  Gladafconeij  made  shortly  after  the 
accession  of  Queen  Victoria  m  1837,  in 
which,  speaking  of  her  gracious  Majesty, 
he  said,  "and  has,,  over  her  evening  tea, 
discussed  the  probability  of  Whig  or  Tory 
ascendency,"  At  what  hour  did  Qi^eat  Anna, 
whom  three  realms  obeyed,  take  tea  1 

K  S.  Dodgson; 

Dk  Johnson  (9*^  S.  vii.  88),— la  Boswell's 
*Life/  under  year  1777,  is  inserted  a  letter 
from  Johnson  to  Bos  well,  in  which  he  says  of 
the  latter's  wife,  **1  hope  she  knows  my  nama 
and  does  not  call  me  Johnston"  Bos  well 
adds  a  note  that  Johnson  is  the  English 
formation ,  "  Joknstofi  the  Scotch.  My  illus- 
trious friend  observed  that  many  North 
Britons  pronounced  his  name  in  their  own 
way,"  V.  R. 

Motto  fob  Laukdey  Pouch  (9"'  S.  vii.  6S). 
—If  a  Greek  motto  is  desired,  Nausicaa  will 

fjrhaps  provide  two  or  three  to  clioose  from* 
would  suggest  the  last  four  words  of  these 
lines  (*  Odyssey/  vi.  60,  61)  i— 

teal  Bi  (TOi  avTf^  fot/cc,  ^€Ta  wfimTOnriv  €Oi*ra 

with  the  slight  change. 

Or,  if  Latin  m  preferred,  may  I  venture,  after 
long  disuse  of  the  Gradug,  a  paraphrase  of  a 
common  proverb,  "Ne  coram  popttlo  tegmina 
fceda  laves''?  A.  T /M, 

The  best  motto  which  cwcurs  to  my  mind 
would  he  **  Out,  damned  spot !  out^  I  aay  ! "  but 
perhaps  this  would  be  too  plain  for  some 
neighbourhoods, _  John  Wesley's  line  in  his 
sermon,  *^  Cleanliness  is  indeed  next  to  godli- 
ness," might  be  appropriate.  Perhaps  neater 
still  would  be  Gay  s  lines  : — 

In  bmtitv  faults  oonspicuouA  ^row, 
Tho  Amallefit  apeak  ii  aeen  on  snow. 

W,  H.  QUAREEU* 

May  I  suggest  as  a  Scriptural  motto  for  a 
lauDcfry  porch,  ^*  Wash  and  be  clean  '* 
(2  Kings  V.  13)?  Dean  Buckland  chose 
ihe»e  words  as  the  text  of  his  sermon  at 
Westminster  Abbey  on  the  day  of  thanks* 
f^ving  ior  the  cmmtion  of  the  cholera  m 


ia49,  and  his  selection  of  them  gave  oSenct 
to  some  timid  folk  ;  but  the  choit^e  was  i 
happy  one,  and  the  words  are,  I  think 
equally  suitable  to  0.  J.  B,*s  purpose. 

J.  A.  J.  HousDKir* 
CaDonbury. 

The  inscription  over  the  Pump  Room  a1 
Bath  might  serve  :  ''Aptcrroif  ph  v5*yp.  Iti; 
taken  from  Pindar's  *01ymp,,'  I,  i.,  and  meani 
**  Water  is  best,"  Arthue  M  ayall. 

Royal  Stahdard  (9"'  S,  vli.  108), —  II 
evidence  based  upon  observation  l?e  per 
mitted,  there  appears  to  be  no  reason  whi 
one  should  not  assert  that  when  a  standari 
is  "  broken  "  it  in  unfurled  after  being  hoisted 
The  flag  is  made  into  a  bundle  and  held  ii 
that  form  bv  the  cord  attached  to  the  lowe 
cornei\  which  cord  is  then  looperl  so  that  th 
bundle  can  be  loosened  and  opened  out,  froa 
the  deck  of  the  vessel  or  any  other  convenien 
point,  by  a  slight  pull  on  the  cord.  Thi 
leaves  the  cond  attacned  to  the  upper  come 
free  to  do  the  work  of  hoisting  and  hold  in  | 
and  the  flag  is  in  its  place  ready  to  be  nn 
furled  at  the  desired  moment.  The  verb  "  ti 
break  "  in  this  connexion  is  used  in  the  sami 
figurative  sense  as  when  one  speaks  of  the 
day  breaking,  or  of  a  bud  breaking  ioto 
flower.  Arthur  Mayall 

A  flag  is  **  broken  '*  when  it  is  run  up  to  the 
truck  or  peak,  as  the  cjue  may  be,  in  a  roU^ 
and  unfurled  when  in  position. 

Herbert  Maxwell. 

D'AuvBRGNE  Family  (9*^  S,  vii.  68,  117).- 
I  do  not  know  whether  your  corresponden 
seeks  information  concerning  the  ori^na 
French  family  (the  "elder''  branch,  of  whicJ 
that  noble  old  warrior  Marshal  Tureune  w& 
the  most  illustrious  member),  or  the  Jeree; 
family,  the  "cadet"  branch.  With  regan 
to  the  latter,  I  fear  little  historical  evi 
dene©  exists.  In  the  *  D.N.B.*  there  is  a  Hf 
of  Edward  D'Auvergne,  military  historiai: 
chaplain  to  the  Scots  Guards,  IQai,  whc 
belonging  to  the  Jersey  branch  of  th 
D'Auvergne  family,  claimed  descent  from 
cadet  of  the  last  reigning  Due  de  BouilloE 
With  respect  to  the  old  stock.  La  Tou 
d^Auvergne,  I  could  furninb  the  names  o 
several  works  ;  amongst  others  the  *  Histoir 
Geneaiogique  de  le  Maison  d'Auvergne 
justifit^  par  Chart  res,  Titres,  Histoire 
Anciennes,  et  autres  Preuves  Authentique^ 
par  EtienneBaluzej  Parish,  1708  (which  work  wa 
suppressed  immediately  after  publication  b 
order  of  the  French  king),  Tne  iat^ftt  worl 
,  I  believe,  published  concerning  the  family  i 
Wiit\t.\^  *  aQ^l«ftl^a^x\'fe\kx1Ek^3^^pu^      BouiUoi 


9»8.vilmabch2,i90i.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


177 


ei  les  Manoserite  qu'il  a  laisg^,'  par  S< 
Cauet^  Evreox,  1900.  There  is  also  much 
information  to  be  found  in  the  *  NouveHe  Bio- 
graphie  Qen^rale/and  other  French  work«  of  a 
»i[D i) ar  character.  Should  your  corres pon den t 
care  to  drop  me  a  Hue,  I  should  be  pleai^ed  to 

SlacB  at  hia  service  any  in  formation  I  may 
ftve  handy.  As,  however,  all  the  works  I 
bave  aeeti  treating  of  this  subject  are  in 
French^  1  should  Tike  to  know  whether  a 
translation  would  be  essential 

Herbert  B.  Claytom, 
3i,  Renfrew  Boad,  Lower  Keuniiigton  Lane. 

The  story  of  the  chequered  career  of  Philip 
ti'Auvergne,  titular  Duke  of  Bouillon,  who 
v&s  at  the  same  time  a  peer  of  Franee  and  a 
Britiah  admiral^  is  fairly  well  known.  See 
Birke'i  *  Vicissitudes  of  Families/  1869; 
Aosted's  'Channel  Islands'  (Allen,  1893). 

J.  L.  Andeeso>% 

If  your  corre§pondent  Ihnes  will  write  to 
loe,  I  think  1  can  give  him  the  information 
he  asks  for.       C.  P.  Lb  Corku,  Col.,  F.S.A, 

Li  lUfue  Manor,  Jersey, 

The  Last  Male  Dbsuenpakt  op  Dahtel 
DiFOE  (9^  S.  vii.  86).— It  appears  that  a 
mrviving  sister  of  the  decea^  ia  in  receipt 
4  a  Government  pension  on  account  of  her 
Mppcsed  descent^^but  the  details  have  not 
been  proved.  It  is  known  that  the  prefix 
"De"  is  an  imposture,  for  one  Foe  or  Fooe. 
of  E!ton,  Northamptonshire,  was  father  of 
£h©  butcher  James  Foe*  of  Cripp legate 
^bose  eminent  ion  named  Daniel  assumed 
the  noble  ])refix.  He  had  two  sons,  of  whom 
Baniel  emigrated,  and  his^  descendants  have 
been  reported  in  America ;  the  younjj;er 
8(m,  known  very  notoriously  as  "Norton," 
W  a  Bon  namea  Samuel  (no  doubt  after  the 
progenitor  Dr.  Annesley),  who  died  in  1782^ 
*ncl  two  grandsons,  of  whom  Joseph  was 
ftecnted  as  a  hoinicide  in  1771,  while  Jamas 
wr?i?ed  and  left  two  married  daughters, 
I  do  not  know  that  any  authentic  pedi- 
gtee  has  been  carried  further,  so  have 
^rded  a  very  respectable  family  named 
Baker  as  the  true  representatives  of  the 
withor  of  *  Robinson  Crusoe ' ;  one  is  a 
ckric^  whose  name  may  be  traced  in  the 
P^gy  List,-  and  who  is  perhap^i  in  posses- 
sion of  fuller  details.  A.  H, 
[See  abo  7**"  S.  iii.  4G0 ;  iv.  191.] 

■Book-Woeld'{9*^  S*  iv.4S,  9b,  251).— I  am 
fflach  obliged  to  Mb.  Origor  anti  M,  W.  for  the 
fnformation  given,  but  must  lean  to  belief 
iQ  Mr,  Gbigoe,  he  is  so  circuraatantiaL  I 
should  be  glad  to  know  more  of  the  ^  Lords  of 


the  quotation  appeared  in  the  Pall  Mall 
Gazette;  and  also  for  information  as  to  the 
'  Poet,'  as  I  have  been  unable  to  trace  their 
whereabouts,  which  accounts  for  my  latenesn 
of  appeal  again  to  the  ubiquitous  *N.  k  Q.* 
Richard  Hemmino, 
Anlwkk. 

Aechbishop  Whately's  'IjOGIc'(9*^S- vii 
69).— The  following  extract  from  a  communi- 
cation which  appeared  in  *N.  ilrQ/,  1'^  S.  xii, 
508,  may  be  of  as-^i stance  to  F.  M.  :— 

"The  only  t^erfect  colle<;tion  of  tho  works  of 
Arthhiahop  XVhately  extant,  is  that  m  the  library 
of  thfi  Royal  Dublin  Society,  To  this  collection  his 
Grace  has  mainlr  coutributcd  by  don^tiona,  aud 
has  promifted  to  maintAifi  it  by  a  dbuation  of  every 
future  publication." 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

** Frail"  (^^^  S.  iv.  436,  5€7  ;  v.  51,  168; 
vi,  378;  vii.  my  —  Gruetla  avemt  is  oatmeal^ 
hence  our  modern  "gruel"  A  mirdm  of 
"gingebrade"  or  *'gingebrar"  (see  *N.E.D.'  on 
the  lost  word)  must  he,  I  think,  a  gourd  of 
preserved  ginger,  which  may  have  weighed 
28  ib.,  seeing  that  gourds  sometimes  weigh 
30  ]b.  I  cannot  explain  the  bad  oatmeal 
being  given  **pro  Deo,*'  or  the  word  **  weidiie." 
**  Hacemorum  is  the  usual  and  right  form  ; 
racfJmtis^  a  cluster  of  grapes,  is  a  classical 
word.  "  Frails  "  of  figs  and  of  raisins  occur 
frequently  in  Durham  Account  Rolls. 

J,  T.  F. 

Durham. 

"  BE.iZEN>S0FT  "  (9'^^  B.  ii.  80).— Th©  Berlin 
folk  use,  for  the  same  sort  of  people  who  are 
said  to  be  called  "  brazen-sof t "  in  the  Mid- 
land a,  the  adjective  hrmmnkliittrig  (pron. 
brdjc%-Miitmim\  BfUgt^i  being  your  brain, 
and  kluter{g  —  cmtt^\  Soup  or  pori'idgc  is 
contemptuously  so  styled  when  there  are 
clots  in  it.  Now  the  sounds  of  s  and  if  are 
nearly  related  ;  I  Vieg  leave  to  invite  more 
competent  scholars  than  I  am  to  answer  the 
question  whether  they  are  not  inberchanj^e- 
able  in  some  English  dialects  :  the  Scottish 
capercailzie  is  certainly  pronounced  either  i/i 
or  lu  Dr^  G.  Kbueoee. 

Berlin. 

Gladstokk  Statue  (9*  8,  vii.  108).— The 
statue  atxiut  which  Me,  McGovern  inquires 
was  erected  in  one  of  the  niches  in  St,  George's 
Hall,  Liverpool,  in  1870.  It  is  6  ft.  H  in.  in 
hnijrlit,  and  cut  from  a  block  of  Grestela 
ni;ulil<^  s' lifted  froni  the  Carrara  quarries 
by  tlic  Jaculptor  himself.  It  was  modelled  ya 
Kome  and  tirnahe*i  in  Lftxidou,  awd  ^^\xrvw\\» 


Ubottr/  by  Mac&rJAi^  iionty  the  date  when  i  progre^is    Mr,    Gladstotiei  ^ft^rfe  '^t.   Kw^?^- 


178 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9-»  s.  vil  march  2,  iwi. 


Acton  upwards  of  twenty  sittings.  This  well- 
kia  own  sculp  tor  h  as  recen  tl  y  exeeu  ted  aiio  th  er 
statue  of  Mr,  Gladstone  for  Bkckbiirn.  In 
the  Dailv  Chronicle  of  18  April,  1899,  appeared 
a  "  talk '  with  Mr.  Adams- Ac  ton  concerning 
his  Gladstone  statues.  The  folio  \sfing  ex- 
tract therefrom  may  possibly  interest  Mr, 
McGovERPT  :— 

'*  I  worked  with  the  great  ftdvantaRe  of  having 
known  Mr.  CHadBtotie  for  ahtuxt  Hve-and- thirty 
vpara.  Going  Imck  that  length  of  titne,  1  was  in 
BotQij,  the  holder  of  a  Royal  Academy  travelling 
acholarahip*  Then  I  came  to  England,  and  wan 
engaged  ut>on  aomc  buaU  in  LiverpooL  Mr,  Glad- 
atone  had  been  npeakiog  there,  ana  it  wan  decided 
that  a  Btatue  of  him  shoiild  h^  ereeted  in  SSt,  (George's 
Hall,  1  was  a»ked  to  undertake  it...., .and  he  gavd 
me  qiiito  a  number  of  sittings— at  least  twenty,  1 
fthould  think,  I  went  back  to  Rome  to  Bni&h  my 
modelj  and.  aa  it  happened,  Mr,  Gbdstc»ne  viaited 
Rome,  and  I  had  other  sitting^s  from  him  and  other 
talks  with  him.  You  could  not  coneeivo  a  greater 
treat  than  t-o  have  him  ait  to  you.  He  was  charm - 
lug,  even  when  he  was  busieat ;  anci,  indeed,  it  was 
an  advantage  to  work  on  him,  if  I  may  so  express 
it,  while  he  also  was  at  work.  He  wa.=i  Chancellor 
of  the  Eichequer,  and  at  Carlton  House  Terrace, 
where  be  then  lived,  he  put  on  the  rohes  of  that 
office,  in  order  that  I  might  have  the  better 
picture.*' 

I  have  a  full-page  engraving  of  this  statue, 
which,  I  think,  came  from  the  Oiupkic.  There 
WBM  a  smaller  one  in  the  Ilhmirated  Lomion 
Mews  of  91  May,  1870.  I  have  also  in  my  col- 
lection a  steel  engraving  by  E.  Roffe,  and  a 
group  in  bronze  by  Mr,  Adams- Acton  entitled 
*^The  Widow's  Cruse.'  John  T.  Page. 

West  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 

This  is  in  8t.  George's  Hall,  Liverpool.  The 
figure  is  represented  in  the  robes  of  tlie  Chan- 
cellor of  the  Exchequer.  It  is  in  marble.  The 
statue  wa«(  unveiled  on  16  September,  1870. 
Joaeph  Hublmck  was  Mayor  of  Liverpool  and 
was  present,  Huxley,  Holies  ton,  antl  many 
eminent  persons  were  also  there.  The  cost 
wats  defrayed  by  a  somewhat  small  number  of 
persona.  Some  of  th©  subscribers  are  living 
m  Liverpool  now.  Thob,  White. 

Woitgiff's  Hospital,  Ceoydok  (B^  S.  vi. 
341,  383,  402,  423,  479,  513).— It  seems  un- 
desirable that  the  explanation  on  *The 
Admonition  to  Parliament '  should  be  allowed 
to  rest  OM  if  there  were  any  real  doubt  with 
regard  to  the  authorship.  It  is  true  Cart- 
wright  wrote  a  subsequent  piece  called  ^  A 
Second  Admonition  to  the  Parliament/  which 
second  piece  wa^j  reprinted  in  1617  with  the 
original  **  Admonition  to  the  Parliament 
holden  in  the  I3yeare  of  the  reigne  of  Queene 
^J/2»beth  of  Biassed  Mem  one.  Begun  anno  I 
1370  mid  ended  J571J'  In  this  reprint  the! 
^»o  pieces  anp  mt  forth  in  sugc^saaioB  i  t\ie 


*  Admonition '  itself  follower!  by  the  *  Second 
Admonition  ^  published  by  Cartw right.  This 
latter  contains  a  passage  in  which  the  former 
is  referred  to,  which  shows  c*>nclusively  that 
Uart  Wright  did  not  write  the  *  Admonition': 
"  The  pei-sona  that  are  thought  to  have  made 
them    (i,e,,  two  treatises,  in  which  form  the 

*  Admonition  ^  originally  appeared)  *'are  laid  m 

no  worse  prison  then  Newgate the  men 

that  set  upon  them  are  no  worse  then  the 
Bishops,"  This  corresponds  witli  th©  accouDt 
given  by  Brook,  and  also  with  that  in  the 

*  At  heme  Cant,' :— 
*' Cart w right  [nay  the  writers  of  the  *  Athene  1 

returned  to  Eitglaml  about  November,  157*2.  Jchn 
Field  and  Thomas  Wikos  .....were  at  that  jieriod 
con ti Tied  In  Newgate  for  writing  the  farnoiis  *  Ad- 
monition to  the  Parlianient.'  Mr.  Cartwrig ht  vtsiiad 
them  in  prison  and puhliahed  a  *  Second  Ad- 
monition to  the  Parliament.'  Dr,  Whit  gift  rieiilie<J, 
and  Cartwright  a^jn  answered  Whiteift.  Hhh 
controversy  oocujued  the  attention  and  absorbed 
the  sympathies  of  all  the  reformed  chnrebes.*^ 

See  also  No.  3  of  the  list  of  CartwriKiit^s 
works  at  the  end  of  the  article  on  Thoina* 
Cart  Wright,  where  what  I  have  stated  above 
is  further  confirmed,  and  the  authorship  of  the 
original  ^  Admonition '  again  ascribed  to  Field 
and  VViloox,  I  have  e^Lamined  at  the  Britiih 
Museum  the  reprint  of  1617,  from  which  I 
made  the  above  extract  and  copied  the  bead- 
ing prefixed  to  the  *  Admonition.' 

S.  Aebcott, 
Kaling, 


Reference  should  have  been  made  to  a  long 
and  original  communication  in  ^N.  ^  Q./ 
V^B,  ix.  501.  W.  0,  E 

Jesse  and  Sklwtn  (9'^  B.  vii,  122).— Aa  the 
grandson  of  Edward  Jesse    and    nephew  of 
J,  H.  Jesse,  I  would  wish  to  protest  againat 
the  groundless  assertion's  of  Me,  Hdttok  th&t 
the  latter  improperly  made  use  of  documents 
which  he  had,  presumably  with  the  assistance 
of  his  father,  abstracted  from  the  OtKce  of  the 
Commissioners  of  Land  Revenues^  ^c    Ms. 
BoTTON  says,  "Whether  Jesse  returned  the 
MSS.  after  he  had  made  use  of  them  I  do  not 
know/'    Also,  ^*My  father's  impression  w*a 
that  the  publication  wag  unautnori^ed,  and 
was  resented  by  the  Carlisle  family.    Of  this. 
however,  I  have  no  proof."    Mr-  Eottoh  telli 
us  that  ^^some  of  the  Selwyn   papers   ^till 
remain  at  the  Office  of  Woods ;  but  as  there  i» 
a  question  who  is  entitled  to  them,  the  public? 
are,  very  properly,  not  allowed  to  examine 
them."    I  coraially  endorse  the  '*  very  pro- 
perly," seeing  that  Mr.  Rotton  ingenuously 
admits  that  a  few  unimportant  document* 
L  v^ere  taken  by  his  own  father  and  are  still  in 
\  Vtva  ^^^^^\Qu^   '^'vi'Qiixd  l^ism.  held  the  olfio0 


V  s.  vn.  makch  2. 1901]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


179 


f  Deputy-Surveyor  of  Koyal  Parks  and 
"klaoee  until  1830,  when  he  retired  on  a 
tension.  J.  U..  Jesse  was  not  a  clerk  in  the 
>ffice  before  entering  the  Admiralty. 

Alpbed  F.  Curwkn. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  &c. 
The  French  Monarchy  (1483-1789).    By  A.  J.  Grant, 

M.A.    2  vols.    (Cambridge,  University  Press.) 
Ik  common  with  some  others  of  the  "  Cambridge 
Historical  Series,**  to  which  it  belongs,  *  The  French 
Monarchy  *  of  Prof.  Grant  suffers  from  the  draw^- 
huk  that  the  canvas  is  too  small  for  the  subject. 
It  is,  no  doubt,  convenient  and  useful  to  have  a 
tommarv  of  the  events  that  took  place  between 
the  death  of  Louis  XI.  and  the  advent  of  the  Revo- 
lation.    The  main  purpose  of  the  author  is,  more- 
OTer,  carried  out.    Those  who  study  his  pages  will 
have  a  fair  idea  of  the  growth  and  development  of 
the  monarchy,  and   may  see  that  the  extent  to 
which  the  Revolution  was  a  complete  break  with 
the  past  has  been  over-estimated  by  others  besides 
the  participants  in  it.    That  the  main  purpose  of 
the  series— to  be  useful  to  those  already  grounded 
to  some  extent  in  European  history— is  fulfilled 
ctnnot  be  said.    A  record  of  political  and  historical 
vmatA  is  given,  but  the  developments  of  thought 
and  the  underlving  influences  to  which  (Dourt  and 
•ociety  were  subject  are  not  traced.     A  tribute  to 
the  Dower  of   Kabelais   over   French   thought  is 
yielaed,  and  the  influence  of  Montaigne  is  asso- 
ciated with  that  of  Michel  rHospital.    No  trace 
u,  however,  found  of  the  influence  of  the  libertins. 
who   during    and    subsequent    to    the    wars    of 
KligioD    played    a    significant    part    in    French 
history.    The  word,  even,  is  not  mentioned.    The 
treatment  of  the  mignoiis  of  the  Court — becoming 
CQough  in  a  book  intended  for  youth— is  scarcely 
adequate  to  the  requirements  of  present  days.    In 
Uie  condition  of  Spain  during  the  period  of  the 
Reformation  we  find  no  trace  of  the  influence  of 
tha>t  relentless  persecution  of   the   new  learning 
^ch  left  Spain,  alone  among  the  kingdoms  of  the 
West,  in  a  sleep  so  profound  that  the  trumpet-blast 
niledf  to  rouse  it.     It  would  be  easy  to  multiply 
ooussions  of  the  kind,  on  which,  however,  we  have 
no  wish  to  dwelL    To  assert,  as  is  said  in  vol.  i. 
^47,  that  the  Emperor  Maximilian  died  in  1715,  is 
w  coarse  onlv  an  oversight,  though  it  should  have 
he^  detected  in  time  to  oe  included  in  the  errata. 
f^i  Grant  estimates  a  million  and  a  quarter  livres 
gjthe  time  of  Henri  IV.,  sav  1503,  as  eMtiualling 
^OOOf.  (see  L  165)  in  modem  oays.    This  is  surely 
^  extravagant   computation.     The   livre  in  the 
time  of  Charlemagne  was  the  equivalent  of  a  con- 
■Klerable  sum,  but  its  value  must  by  the  sixteenth 
century  have  very  greatly  diminisned.     It  is  in- 
jnect  to  speak   of   Montgomery,  to  whom 
wh  of  Henri  IL  was  attributable,  as  a  Scotch 
■^^t.    His  grandfather,  Robert  de  Montgomery, 
*tt  a  Scotchman,  but  his  father,  Jacques  de  Mont- 
pnery,  was  Sire  de  Lorges,  and  the   Comte  de 
MoDtromery,  to  whom  the  accident  was  due,  is 
ylled  in  the  chronicle  "Lorges.**     We  have  not 
^t  on  word*  sach  as  the  ^*  Abbey  of  St.  Gene- 
^^"ve.'*  Dr.  Gnmt  has  consulted  many  trustworthy 
""" — ,  a  Ikt  of  which  he  gives  in  a  bibliographiou 


note  in  his  second  volume.  The  utility  of  his  work 
would,  however,  be  greatly  augmented  by  an  ex- 
pansion of  his  scheme— a  matter  presumably  not  in 
nis  hands— and  by  a  more  scrupulous  revision  of 
proofs. 

A    Literary    History    of  America,     By    Barrett 

Wendell  (Fisher  Unwin.) 
Mb.  Wendell  is  Professor  of  English  at  Harvard, 
and  therefore  his  book  is  entitled  to  all  respect  as 
coming  from  one  who  is  in  a  position  of  autnority. 
It  has  the  advantage  of  being  written  ably  and  in  a 
style  which  is  creditably  clear  and  free  from  Ame- 
ricanisms. In  the  explanation  of  literary  move- 
ments, their  causes  and  developments,  the  writer 
is  at  his  best,  and  this  best  is  distinctly  good.  It 
was  a  happy  idea  to  interpose  in  these  pages  some 
idea  of  contemporary  literature  in  Englana,  as  the 
inspiration  of  writers  on  the  further  side  of  the 
Atlantic  was  notably  derived  from  the  mother 
country,  long  after  considerations  of  political  Ufe. 
national  character,  and  language  had  loosened 
the  old  ties.  But  the  English  matter  is  far  too 
lengthy. 

In  Franklin  Prof.  Wendell  ingeniously  dis- 
covers an  eighteenth  •  century  prototype  of  the 
American  humourists  whose  peculiar  tyx)e  of  fun 
has  added  so  much  to  the  gaiety  of  nations.  But 
Cotton  Mather,  with  many  religious  writers  of  his 
age  — the  Hartford  wits  and  their  successors  — 
cannot  really  claim  much  space  or  interest  to-day 
as  writers  of  literature.  Tnis  is  evident  from  the 
fact  that  many  of  their  writings  are  out  of  print 
now  in  America.  Cue  cannot  get,  it  appears, 
Wigglesworth,  for  all  his  contemporary  popularity ; 
or  Joel  Barlow,  or  Fr^neau,  or  Timothy  Dwight's 
poems  ;  and  in  the  face  of  such  testimony  it  is  idle 
to  consider  their  writings  at  any  length.  Once  in 
the  century  we  have  just  left,  interest  grows,  of 
course,  and  we  deal  with  poets  and  prose  writers 
whose  names  are  househola  words  in  England. 

In  this  section  Mr.  Wendell  is  never  dull ;  but 
we  are  unable  often  to  agree  with  him.  Equations 
and  comparisons  are  introduced  which  can  only 
be  regarded  as  fantastic  and  a  serious  menace  to 
the  formation  of  right  judgments.  Such  a  lack  of 
balance  has  been,  we  regret  to  say,  a  characteristic 
of  some  recent  English  criticism  too,  which  is 
rather  disquieting.  We  hear  of  "Thucydides, 
Livy,  or  Webster.**  Poe  is  compared  with  Mar- 
lowe in  an  astonishing  paragraph,  yet  justice  is  not 
done  to  his  orisdnality  and  his  genius,  for  he  has 
claims  to  both  these  qualities  which  put  him  above 
many  of  the  writers  here  lauded.  And  surely  a 
caution  should  have  been  added  as  to  Griswold*s 
remarks  on  him.  As  to  Irving*s  *  Sketch-Book,*  in 
formal  style  it  is  said  to  be  above  notable  things  of 
Hazlitt,  Scott,  and  Shelley.  "Its  prose,  in  fact, 
has  hardly  been  surpassed,  if  indeed  it  has  been 
equalled,  in  nineteenth  -  century  England.**  This 
judgment  surprises  us,  and  will,  we  think,  surprise 
many  others.  To  begin  with,  Irving*s  is  a  consciously 
imitative  style,  and  its  ease  is  an  elaborateness 
which  lacks  fire  everywhere.  We  say  plainly  that 
he  cannot  rank  with  the  great  masters.  Lowell  is 
considered  at  length,  but  nothing  is  said  of  his 
English  popularity,  which  has  recently  been  said 
to  surpass  that  of  any  poet  of  the  century  !  Not 
with  ua  does  his  *  Commemoration  Ode '  at  Harvard 

I  form  his  chief  title  to  be  called  ^«\>.    ^^vi<svi\!\ 
point  to  shorter,  in  no  w\&e  sycaAeniv^  VXi\ii\B^  Y"^^ 
'Above  and  Belo^r,'  mth  \\a  YiiifcL  iwAft  ^1  %Bs^Yi»r 


180 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     i»»8.vn.MAacH2,M0L 


tioD ;  und  *  The  Court  in*,'  a  plain,  sweet  idyl  of 
man  and  maid  which  ia  racy  of  the  soil,  free  from 
the  elaboration  whioh  suggeaU  a  teaser  T^tmyson,  a 
Wordawortli  manqnd.  The  *  Fable  for  Cf  ibtcs  *  Mr. 
Wendell  does  weU  %a  quot«  in  eatirnatin^?  certain  of 
the  bigger  men  ;  it  la  rank  and  wild  at  times,  but 
too  good  to  be  neKlected,  for  instance »  on  Bryant 
and  Cooiier.  Whitnian'j»  oddity  i»  much  dwelt  on, 
but  it  is  pleaaant  to  find  a  recognition  of  bis  great 
work  in  regarding  nothing  as  com  mod  or  unclean. 
Hj«  rhythm  instead  of  rime  and  bis  strange 
tbougbts  have  had  diaiiu^iahed  followers,  not 
here  noted,  and  it  ia  an  easy  thing  to  make 
fun  of  him  in  taking  phnues.  That  hia  cccen- 
tricity  ib  "^ decadent**  we  are  not  at  all  atire. 
The  hiBloriane  and  the  philo&opbera  are  more  aatiw- 
factorily  treated  than  tbe  men  of  letters.  Park- 
man,  though  he  did  not  satisfy  B|)eeialiBU  on 
Acadia^  waa  a  thorough  and  scientific  worker, 
deserving  high  i>raise.  6nch  notice  as  he  gets  hero 
is  judicious  ;  but  why  the  writer  Buddcnly  turns  oflf 
to  discuss  Gibbon,  and  say  things  that  have  been 
better  said  many  timeSt  we  do  not  know.  These 
•comparisons  are  overdone,  and  a  little  more  ppace 
<le voted  to  the  subject  proper  would  have  by  no 
means  been  wasted.  On  one  point  Prof.  Wendell 
is  certainly  right— his  mfuaaL  to  deal  with  living 
writers,  though  it  is  plcELSing  to  find  incideu tally 
high  praise  of  Mark  Twain's  wonderful  *  Huokle- 
b&rry  Finn.' 

One  achievement  of  our  cousins  deserves  pro^ 
minent  notice,  without  a  doubt.  The  United  States 
baa  produced,  and  ia  i^roducing,  fine  oratory ;  ela- 
borate, fterhaps,  but  atill  worthy  of  envy  over  here. 
Mr.  \V  en  dell  thinks  that  America  has  more  artistic 
cooacienee  than  we  have,  and  writea  better  short 
stories  too.  In  these  and  in  new3pa];)er«i  (which  he 
considers  i^ith  admirable  spirit  and  judgment)  the 
literary  output  of  the  future  over  there  is  to  find 
ita  rac^t  cfiective  form.  We  only  hope  that  art 
^11  not  lead  to  a  loss  of  natnralnesa.  These  pa^es 
have  aonie  persistent  affeotationa  of  language^  which 
tend  to  make  them  tedioua.  Mere  cleverness,  too, 
haj  led  the  writer  to  exaggerate  some  of  his  points, 
Thia  ia  a  venial  fault  \  but  i>rectogity  of  langnage  ia 
BO  peatilent  and  so  prevalent  that  it  needa  to  be 
checketl.  We  ahould  add  that  there  is  a  biblio- 
graphy of  authorities  at  the  end  of  the  volnme, 
which  is  not  vef?  complete  so  far  as  England  goes. 
The  late  Frof.  Tyler^s  work  on  the  literature  of 
America  gets,  as  it  deserves,  high  commendation. 

Tht  Lang%tagr.  of  Htt^ulioritinf.     Ey  Richard  Dims- 

dale  Miocker.  (Soaneuschem  &  Co.) 
TiLAT  handwriting  is  to  some  eiitent  an  index  of 
character  is  easy  of  acceptance.  Whether  a  EK^ience 
of  gFaphology  has  been  mastered  is  another  matter. 
We  do  not,  at  leoat,  believe  that  any  opfjortunitv  of 
forming  an  opinion  on  the  subject  is  fnrnishiid  when 
the  handwriting  of  people  alrczidy  distinguished  is 
alone  taken.  Given  autographs  such  as  William 
Bhikkc^l^eare,  Victoria  fL,  Ptetro  Paolo  Rubena, 
Charloj^  Dickens,  J.  Ruskin,  A.  Dumas,  and  Ellen 
Terry,  it  ia  not  difficult  to  tell  their  characters, 
Mr.  8toeker  has  supplied  the  charactera  of  variotis 
people  who  have  cunaulled  him,  and  in  every  case 
nia  pronouncements  seem  to  have  been  productive  of 
eratiSeation.  This  brtngs  to  our  mind  Goldsmith's 
line, 

Who  peppered  the  highest  was  surest  to  pLeaae. 
Miss  Evelyn   Millard  declares  herself   delighted,  y 
Misa  AlmA  MursAy  t,hmkB  th^t  most  of  wh&t  la  laid  \ 


is  true,  and  Miss  Olga  Nethersole  decLarea  hit 
estimate  comforting.  A  fairer  teat  wonld  be  to  give 
the  handwriting  with  no  simature.  If  then  the 
reading  corresponded  with  what  is  known  concern- 
ing  the  individual,  we  should  be  in  a  better  position 
to  judp  of  the  worth  of  our  author's  coachuaiona. 
To  make  such  an  experiment  valuable  there  should 
be  no  chance  of  identification.  We  are  not  posing 
as  sceptics,  and  are  denying  nothing,  but  we  shoum 
like  to  have  evidence  other  and  Detter  than  we 
possess. 

WhkaJter'8  Peeragt  for  tU  Year  2301.    (Wliitaker 

k  iSona.) 
Thk  fifth  issue  of  this  peerage  and  directory  of  the 
titled  classes  ia  ao  thoroughly  up  to  date  aa  to 
chronicle  the  death  of  her  late  gracious  Majesty 
and  to  supply  a  full  list  of  New  Year's  honomra* 
The  illness  of  the  editor  has  not  interfered  with 
the  value  or  dimensiona  of  the  work,  which  con- 
tains many  new  features  and  thirty  pages  more 
than  the  previous  volume.  The  cbanKea  to  be  noted 
are,  of  coursci  the  same  as  thoee  in  similar  works 
with  whiob  we  have  already  dealt. 

Mr,  Fryar,  of  Batb^  offers  i^ratia  to  purchaser! 
of  his  *  Isiac  Tablet '  a  reproduction  of  the  complete 
set  of  Tarot  keys  iihistrating  the  Sanctum  Regnum. 
The  plates  are  before  us,  but  to  pronounce  an 
opinion  upon  them  reci aires  a  species  of  knowledge 
we  do  not  claim  to  itosaeas.  To  the  initiated  theee 
things  may  overflow  with  light,  hut  our  darkiie^  is 
impenetrable. 


Wt  must  coil  ^xcicd  tUtentian  to   tks 
noticea  :— 


followm§ 


On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  i 

and  addreiS  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub- 
lication, but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

We  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately. 

To  secure  insertion  of  communications  corre- 
spondenta  must  obeerve  the  following  rnJes,  Let 
each  note^  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  pai>er,  with  the  aiguature  of  the  writer  and 
such  aadress  as  he  wis  lies  to  appear.  W  hen  amiwer- 
ing  queries^  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  pre  nous 
entries  in  the  paper »  contributors  are  reqneat^d  to 
put  in  jjarentheBes,  immediately  after  the  eiftCS 
heading,  the  series^  volume,  and  page  or  pi«M  to 
which  they  refer,  Uorrespondenta  who  c«peal 
queri^  are  requested  to  head  the  second  ooiii- 
munication  '"  Duplicate,*' 

P£RCY  Emery  {''  Life  of  Spartacufl''},~Vou  will 
find  all  you  want  to  know  in  £>niith's  *  Dictinnarr 
of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography  and  MytboloKft^ 
a  book  to  bo  found  in  all  libraries  of  refertenoc* 
You  will  there  »ee  what  classical  authoriUet  caa 
be  consulted. 

C^  Clakee. — A  good  deal  la  added  to  the  Bdilor'^ 
work  by  not  giving  references,  aa  the  rules  request- 

NOTICE. 
Editorial  Communications  ahould  bci  addrened  U> 
**  The  Editor  of  '  Notes  a^id  Qaeriea ' "— Advan^Me- 

ments  and  Business  Letters  to  '*  The  Publisher^— 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  i^ane,  KC- 
We  beg  leave  to  atate  that  we  decline  to  r«tiicti 
commnnications  which,  for  aay  reason,  we  do  ii<^ 
"^^cmt^  andlia  \lb6&t^  wq  oaa  make  na  exceptioa. 


viL  mabch  8. 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBPARTMBNT 

TKB  TOLLOwnre 

MAOAZINBS  AND  T  T|>P  APV     PUDTIPQ  WITHDBAWN  PROM 

£BVIBWS.  iJlI>£liil£li  I     UUlTlJilO  OIBOULATION, 

iTAOE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices   annexed^ 

Until  further  notice  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WBBES  AFTBU  DATR. 


rxK  AjnruM 
».    d. 

7    6 

lod'i      18    0 

r 10    6 

porary  Review         16    0 

1 7    6 

lUottnted 6    0 

htly  Review 16    0 

1 9    0 


«.  d. 

Longman*!       6  0 

Macmillan'i      7  6 

National  Review        15  0 

Nineteenth  Century 16  0 

PaUMall          8  6 

Revue  dee  Deux  Mondee     30  0 

Soribner't         7  6 

Temple  Bar      7  6 


QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE, 
rgh       7    6  1  Quarterly  7    6 

le  terms  will  be  1<.  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Sabsoribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalls  to 
le  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

7BSCRIPTI0NS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  than 
VB  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAT  COMMENCE  AT  ANT  DATS. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

J,      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

Afid  at  ike  Railway  Bookstalls  ^  to  which  places  they  will  he  forwarded  earriage  free, 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  PubUjhe4  ot^rtA 

JRY  MAQAZINB,  The.    VoU.  17. 20,  and  22      each  8  6  ...  2  6 

UITA  MAGAZINE.    Vol.  6     8  0  ...  3  6 

ON  SOCIETY.    2  voU.  £or  1891          16  0  ...  3  6 

2  voU.  for  1892         16  0  ...  3  6 

ILL'S  MAOAZINB.    VoL  for  December.  1898,  to  May,  1899.    lUuttrated ...  2  6 

— — Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illuitrated       ...  2  6 

IBBRS'S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURB.  80IBN0B,  and  ARTS.    Vol.  for  1892 9  0  ...  3  6 

Vol.  for  1896 9  0  ...  3  6 

Vol-  for  1896 9  0  ..  3  6 

Vol.  for  1897 9  0  ...  3  6 

Vol.  for  1898 9  0  ...  3  6 

Vol.  for  1899 ...   ...  9  0  ...  3  6 

IB  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  April.  1898 ...  2  6 

November,  1898,  to  April,  1899 ...  2  6 

May  to  October.  1899  ...  2  6 

D  WORDS.    VoU.  for  1888. 1892,  1894. 1896,  1896, 1897,  and  1898         7  6  ...  2  6 

UT  MAOAZINB.    VoU.  for  1889,  1892, 1894,  1896, 1896,  and  1898      9  0  ...  2  6 


W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

lad  at  over  600  RaUway  BoolutalU.  to  which  placet  Snbtoriber*  can  be  tTansUrrod,  Vrae  ol  c^haxi<b. 

Pntpeetmt  of  Ttmu,  Sfc,,  Mmtfreeupom  appUaOion  to  186,  HTHAND^  LONDON. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,    [o- s.  vii.  mabch  2.  i»i. 

Crown  8vo,  pp.  620,  doth,  Persian  morocco  back,  top  edge  gilt,  5«. 

CLASSICAL  AND  FOREIGN  QUOTATIONS 

Law  Terms  and  Maxims,  Proverbs,  Mottoes,  Phrases  and  Expressions 
in  French,  German,  Greek,  Italian,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  Portuguese, 

WITH    TRANSLATIONS,  REFERENCES,  EXPLANATORY    NOTES  and   INDEXED 

By  WM.  FRANCIS  HENRY  KING,  M.A.,  Ch.  Ch.,  Oxford. 


London:   J.   WHITAKER   &   SONS,    12,    Warwick    Lane,    E.a 

WHI  TAKER'S     PEERAGE. 

A   COMPLETE  PEERAGE,   BARONETAGE,   KNIGHTAGE   AND 

COMPANIONAGE. 

Whitaker's  Peerage  contains  everything  usually  sought  for  in  a  work  of  the  kind,  with  many  particular! 

not  to  be  found  elsewhere. 

ENLARGED   AND    IMPROVED. 

PRICE   TWO   SHILLINOS  AND   SIXPENCE. 

Or  full  royal  blue  roan,  gilt  edges,  48.  6d.  net. 


WHITAEER'S    ALMANACK   FOR    1901. 

This  has  been  again  enlarged  by  sixteen  pages,  and  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  informatio'! 
contains  the  Members  of  the  New  Parliament,  the  newly  constituted  London  Borough  Councils,  and  tM 
new  London  School  Board,  also  a  variety  of  other  interesting  Articles  on  subjects  of  General  Interest. 

Crown  8vo,  paper  covers,  Is.  ;  or,  with  Appendix,  half  bound,  28.  6d. 

London:  J.  WHITAKER  &  SONS,  12,  Warwick  Lane,  E.G. 

Printml  by  JOHM  MDWASLD  FRAMCIS.  AtlMMB«m  Ptom,  lkNKB'%  B«li4lBit,  Olwawwy  lAM.  B.O.  lUi  r«Ulak««  bf 
JOMK  C.  FaAMOIB  tt  Bravn't  BvU^Bgt,  Cbaaowi  \^a»,^C   mnwifwi,  MareK  t^  im. 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 

%  IffLeMum  ai  |nkrcommnmatian 


FOB 


LITERARY     MEN,     GENERAL    READERS,     ETC. 


"When  found,  make  a  note  of."— Captain  Cuttle. 


No.  167.  [jia  Saturday,  March  9,  1901.  { 4g'^!:°X'^. 

OXFORD    UNIVERSITY    PRESS. 

CELTIC  FOLKLORE :  Welsh  and  Manx.    By  John  Rhys,  M.A.,  Principal 

uf  Jetut  College,  Oxford.    2  voU.  bvo,  cloth,  2is. 
MANCHESTER  GUARD/AN.—**  Prof.  Rbyi  has  wisely  adnpted  the  cumulative  method,  and  piled  itory  on  itory 

with  the  result  that  be  almoat  persuades  us  tu  a  rooUid  belie!  in  lairyland This  boolc  must  ever  remain  a  mine  to  the 

■todent  of  primitive  culture The  chapter  devoted  to  *  Place  Name  Stories'  is  one  which  no  student  of  the  Mabinogion 

OiD  afford  to  Degl«  ct.    It  is  the  only  thing  written  in  the  BngUsh  language  worth  reading  on  the  subject.'* 

An  ENGLISH   MISCELLANY  PBESENTED   to  DR.   FUBNIVALL  in 

HONOUR  of  his  SBVKNTY- FIFTH  BIRTHDAY.    Containing  Contributions  from  Fifty  Scholars.    With  Portrait 

of  Dr.  Fumivall  and  10  Plates.    Demy  8vo,  cloth  extra,  gilt  top.  21s. 
ffOTBS  and  QUERIES.  —**  Articles,  every  one  of  which  challenges  serious  consideration.   They  constitute  *  chipe '  from 
noe  of  the  finest  literary  worlcsbops  In  two  continents,  and  they  are  a  monument  to  Dr.  Fumivall  the  most  gratifying  and 
itoooQrable  that  a  worlcer  such  as  he  can  well  receive." 

BAGHDAD  DURING  the  ABBASID  CALIPHATE.    From  Contemporary 

Arabic  and  Persian  Sources.  By  O.  LB  STRANQB.  8vo,  gilt  top,  buckram,  with  8  Plans  (and  Keys),  1««.  net. 
SPECTATOR.—''  It  is  not  easy  to  give  an  adequate  idea  of  the  extreme  difficulty  of  the  worlc  which  Mr.  Le  Strange 
°**  sooompllshed  ;  no  one,  indeed,  unacquainted  with  Arabic  and  Persian  chronicles  can  conceive  the  innumerable  obstaclen 
^ntocess.  It  is  enough  to  say  that  success  has  been  achieved  with  a  completeness  that  is  amazing,  and  the  unlearned  mny 
(>«  tsittred  that  they  possess  in  this  volume  the  fullest  and  most  accurate  account  of  the  topography  of  Baghdad  that  h 
*^^«re  scrutiny  of  all  known  Bastem  sources  can  supply.  Of  the  industry  and  critical  insight  displayed  by  the  author  it  In 
°'«culi  to  speak  without  being  fulsome." 

A   NEW    ENGLISH    DICTIONARY    on    HISTORICAL    PRINCIPLES. 

Founded  mainly  on  the  Materials  collected  by  the  Philological  Society.    Bdited  by  J.  A.  H.  MURRAY,  LL.D.,  and 
HBNRY  BRADLBY,  M.A. 
Reissue  in  Monthly  ParU.    No.  XXI.  CLOACA-COGNIZANCE,  imperial  4to.  3s.  6d. 

A'OTES  and  QUE Rf EH.—* 'It  seems  worth  while  to  insist  upon  the  expediency  of  individual  subscription.    By  the 
'Ist^m  of  monthly  payments  now  established,  the  expense  is  trivial  to  those  who  are  able  to  afford  any  books  whatever." 


ALSO  PUBLISHED  BY  HENRY  FROWDE. 

SPEECHES  of  OLIVER  CROMWELL,  1644-1658.    CoUected  and  Edited  hy 

CHARLBS  L.  STAINBR,  M.A.,  Christ  Church,  Oxford.    Crown  8vo,  cloth,  Os. 

Al  the  GATES  of  SONG.    Sonnets  by  Uoyd  HifBin.    With  a  Portrait. 

Small  4toi,  cloth,  «s. 
MAIL  and  EXPRESS  {Mr.  R.  H.  Btoddabt):— **  Here  is  a  new  poet,  an  American,  who  has  won  instant  recognition. 

' Hit  faults  ar«  condoned  by  many  excellent  qualities,  and  by  one  in  which  he  has  no  superior  among  living  American 

t^<>«ts.  if  indeed  an  equal— a  glorious  imagination." 

AUTHOLOGY  of  FRENCH    POETRY.    Tenth  to   Nineteenth   Centuries. 

Translated  by  HBNRY  CARRINGTON.  M.A.,  Dean  of   Uockiiig.    With  a  Prefatory  Note  by  the  Countess  K. 
HARTUIBNQO-CBSARBSCO.    Crown  8vo,  doth,  2s.  Od. 


London:  HBNRY  FROWDB,  Oxford  University  Press  Waiehouae,  Am^ Cotti^t,^.^. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    (»»  8.  vil  mabch  9.  iwi. 


NEW  VOIiUMB  OF 
MB.  S.  B.  GABDOTEB'S  '  COMMONWllAIiTH.' 


THE 


AND 


HISTORY  OF 

COMMONWEALTH 

PROTECTORATE, 

1649-1660. 

By  SAMUEL  RAW80N  GARDINER, 

M.A.  Hon.  D.O  L.  Oxford,  Litt.D.  Cambridge,  &c. 

Vol.  III.  1054-1656.    Witb6Mapt.    8vo.  21«. 


LONGMANS,  GRBBN,  ft  CO., 
London,  New  York,  and  Bombay. 


2  ToU.  4to.  illnstmted,  red  bneknun,  Kilt,  price  90j. 

THE   LITTLE   BED   BOOK   OF 
BBISTOL. 

Pablished  ander  the  Authority  of  the  Council  of  the  Citjr  and  Coaatjr 
of  Brtetol. 

Edited  by  PBANGIS  fi.  BICKLBY, 
Aeaistant  In  the  Department  of  M88..  British  Mueevm. 


O' 


This  Important  historical  refrister,  orlirlnated  la  1344,  corers  a  period 
of  ISO  years,  and  reeords  the  liberties,  franchises,  and  oonstitntlons  of 
the  town,  many  eeeleslastical  foundations,  and  a  most  Interesting  series 
of  trade  g^ds.  The  rolnmes  throw  great  light  on  the  habits  and  life 
of  the  eftisens ;  and  to  the  stndent  of  philology  many  examples  are 
allbrded  of  archaic  and  obsolete  words. 

To  all  Interested  In  early  municipal  history  these  rolnmes  contain 
much  of  intetast  and  Importance. 

Bristol:  W.  CBOFrON  HBMM0M8,  BT.  8TBPUBM  8T&BBT. 
London :  SOTRB&AN  ft  00.  BookseUers,  8TRAMD. 

iNB    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES.      EDgraved 

oa  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MOKIMO. 

Fcap.  4to.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Blocks  oa  Hand-made 
Paper,  bovnd  ia  artistic  boards,  1S<.  Orf.  net 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     EDgraved  on  Copper. 

By  TH01CA8  MORlSo. 

Uniform  with  the  abore.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Plates 

on  Hand-made  Paper,  26s.  net. 

THOMAS  MORmO. 
The  De  la  More  Press,  62,  High  Holbom,  London.  W.C. 

NOW  RBADT,  SBOOND  EDITION,  RBYI8BD  and  BMLAROBD. 

»^rHB    PENNY    CHRONOLOGY:    a    Series    of 

X.  Important  Dates  in  the  History  of  the  World  from  the  Kelgn  of 
Darid  to  the  Present  Time.  Second  BdlUon.  By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A.. 
F.R.A8. 

Q.  8T0NBMAN,  8B,  Warwick  Lane,  B.O. 

q^HE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER- PAD. 

X     (Tb«  LBADBNH^LL  fRBtiS.  Ltd..  Pnbllshers  sad  Printers. 
M,  Leadenhall  8ir«e(.  London.  B.C.) 

Contain!  hairless  paper,  over  which  thr  pea  slips  with  perfect 
treeaom  !«ixpence  each.  i».  per  dosen.  ruled  or  plain.  New  Pocket 
Sise,  S«.  per  dosoBt  ruled  or  plaia. 

▲nttoors  should  aoie  that  The  LeadenhaU  Preee,  Ltd.,  caaaoi  be 
responsible  tor  the  loss  of  M88  by  fire  or  otherwiee.  Duplicste  copies 
should  b«  rtttsiaed. 

STICKPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Gum  for  sticking  In  Scraps,  Joining  Papers,  Ac.  «d.  and  1«.  with 
strong,  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy>.  Send  two  stamps  10  cover  postage 
for  a  sample  Bottle,  including  Brush.  Factory.  Sugar  Loaf  Court, 
LaadeahaU  Street.  B.C.    Of  aU  Stationers.    Stickphast  Paste  stleks. 

WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— SUGAR— TEA 

m,  NEW  OXfORD  STREET,  W.G. 


WANTED  to  PURCHASE  the  following  Works: 
West's  Antiouitles  of  Fumess,  1774-1822;  Beck's  Aattquitiee  of 
Furness ;  Nicholson  s  and  Bums's  Antiquities  of  Fumees ;  Lonsdale 
Magazine ;  UUerston  ParUh  Magasiae.— Apply  to  JOHN  8.  8AWBJBY. 
20,  Buckiersbnry.  E.C. 

'pUE    CORONATION    of    QUEEN    VICTORIA. 

FOR  SALB.  a  Copy  of  the  SUN,  Second  BdlUoa.  Jane  ».  I8», 
printed  in  Gold,  containing  a  Full  Account  of  the  Qneea'o  CorooaUos 
and  a  Description  of  the  State  Carriages  of  Marshal  Soult  and  the 
other  Ambassadors. -Offers  requested  to  Z..  AtheaKum  Frees.  Bream's 
Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  B.C. 

OOKS,  MS8.,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 

*  CO.,  Auctioneers  of  Books  and  Llteiary  Property  of  OTery 
description.  Libraries  and  smaller  OoUeetions  carefully  catalogued 
and  promptly  offered  for  Sale.  Packing  and  Remoral  artaogod  for. 
TaluaUons  made  for  Probate  or  other  purpoees.  AuetioB  Boosns,  lU. 
Chaacery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end).    Established  1800 

IJULLBTON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

^^  for  Searches  and  Authentic  laformatioa  respaetiBf 

ABMO&LIL   BBARINOS  AND  FAMILY   DB8CBHTB. 

with  a  Separate  Departmeat  for  the  ArUstlc  Productioa  of 

HERALDIC  PAINTING  AND  BNORAVINO. 

Book-Plates,  Seals,  Dies,  Signet  Rings.  Llrery  Buttoaa.  Qreated  Nois- 

Paper,  Ylsltiag  and  laTltattoa  Cards,  fte. 


B^ 


92,  PIOCADILLY,  LONDON  (opposite  the  Oraea  Park). 


OOKS.— ALL    OOT.OF-PRINT    BOOKS    sup- 

.,  BO  matter  oa  what  Subject.    Acknowledged  the  world  orer 

as  the  most  expert  Bookiinders  extant.    Please  sute  waata BAJLERV 

Great  Hookuhop,  14-16,  Joha  Bright  Street,  BInniBgbaas. 


H^ 


AGENCY  FOR  AMERICAN  BOOKS. 

GP.   PUTNAM'S  SONS,   PUBLI8HBBS  and 
•  BOOKSELLERS, 

of  27  and  29,  West  2Srd  Street.  New  York,  and  24.  BEDFORD  STREET. 
LONDON.  W.C.  desire  to  call  the  atteatioa  of  the  KEADIXO 
PUBLIC  to  the  excellent  tacilitioe  preaented  by  their  Branch  House  is 
London  for  fllUag.  on  the  most  tsTourable  terms,  ovdora  for  tbelr 
own  STANDARD  PUBLICATIONS,  and  for  ALL  AMRRICAM 
BOOKS. 

catalogues  sent  on  application. 


ATHENJEUM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  AtK0i%mum.  Mte«  mttd  <t«srM«,  fte..  Is 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  all  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEWS, 
and  PERIODICAL  PIUN'TING.— 18.  Bream's  BuUdiags.  Chaaeery 
Lane,  E.C. 


SCHWBPPE8  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  iBtaraaaoaal 
SxhiMtloB,  Paris,  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda. 

THESE  WATERb  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potaaa,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Touic- Water,  Qmger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continue  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

/    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:— 
^SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,! 
I  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  J 

ScHWEPPBS,  LTD.,  LONDON,  MaLVKRN, 

^OLha»OW,lAYE&POOIi,  BRIETOL,  SYOIIBT,  aai  MELBOUUIB. 


9»&vilmabot9.i9oi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


181 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  MARCH  9,  1901. 


CONTENTS. -No.  167. 

NOTBS  -.—Alexander  Pym.  181— Verbt  out  of  Proper  Names, 
182— Karly  References  to  Donne,  183—"  Verdure  "—Water- 
vole.  184—"  Folio."  '* Quarto"— Point deGalle—Maohyn'8 
'DiAry.'  186- Southey  and  Swedenbors  —  Ireland  and 
Kn>K8.  186. 

QDBRIB3  :-Aocesslon  of  Bdward  VII. -Mrs.  Arbuthnott— 
"Pixe"-John  Foy— Campbells  of  Ardklnglass— "Our- 
tana"— J.  W.  11.  Painter— *  Ode  to  the  North  Cape'— 
Prtntcr'.j  Proof  of  Poems,  187 -"Kybosb"— Allusion  in 
Woninworth— Ships  moving  without  Sail  or  Wind— Bell- 
ringing  ac  Wakes— Hume's  Portrait— Thackeray— Author 
of  Hymn— Walton  Relio  —  Dame  Ann  Combe,  188— His- 


tory of  Seals— BplUp 
tects  -••  fieen  "— Jf 
Church.  189. 


of  John  Nichols— Jewish  Arohi- 
at  Puis  — Monuments  in  Qilllng 


RBPLIBS:— Doubtful  Passages  in  Chaucer,  189  — Mussul- 
man Legend  of  Job— "Money  trusted."  190  — Count 
Peochio— D'Auvergne  Family  —  Mediaeval  Tithe  Barns— 
Chavasse  Family—**  Tapping^'  and  "Tipping  "-Ralegh's 
Signature,  191—"  Carterly  "—Simon  Fraser— Men  wearing 
larrlngs— Cap  of  Maintenance— Latin  Lines— Suwarroff 
Mid  Mass^na.  193  — National  Flag  — Horses  with  Four 
Whit*"  Stockings -Book  of  Common  Prayer— Bonaparte 
BAllad.  lJ«-"Nunty"-The  Dog  and  the  Qamekeeper— 
8ir  James  Douglas— Friday  Superstition— Serjeant  Hill— 
MarKery.  194  — Monolith  with  Cup-markings— Reference 
for  Verses  —  Orientation  In  Interments —  "  Petering  " — 
Karly  Lines  on  Cricket  —  Archbishop  Ussher,  195— The 
Blessing  of  the  Throats— Friar's  Crag,  Derwentwater— 
Broken  on  the  Wheel— Eton  College  and  Ram  Hunting, 
19$—*  Bssence  of  Malone  *- "  Jury  "—Lay  Canon— Instal- 
latton  of  a  Midwife -Old  Legend.  197— "J'ai  v^u"— 
Serjeant  Bettes worth— Sir  J.  S.  Warren—"  Attur.  Acad." 
—Authors  Wanted.  198. 

HOTBS    ON    BOOKS  :— Campbell's  'Superstitions  of  the 

Highlands  and  Islands  of  Scotland  '—Magazines. 
Xr.  F.  S.  Bills. 


ALEXANDER  PYM. 

The  eldest  surviving  son  of  the  well-known 
"patriot "  inherited  Brymore  upon  his  father's 
death  in  August,  1643,  but  very  little  appears 
to  be  known  of  him.  The  late  John  Forster, 
in  his  'Statesmen  of  the  Commonwealth,' 
erroneouMly  states  that  he  was  M.P.  for 
Poole  in  the  Short  Parliament  of  April-May, 
1B40,  and  that  he  died  not  long  after  his 
father.  He  survived  his  father  not  far  short 
of  twenty  years.  In  the  *  Calendar  of  the 
Comm.  for  Advance  of  Money,  under  dates 
^aryinff  between  1643  and  1647,  various  sums 
are  ordered  to  be  paid  him  "on  account  of 
Ijis  arrears "  as  captain  of  horse.  And  in 
January,  1646,  an  order  in  Parliament  directed 
theHettlement  of  the  lands  of  Thomas  Morgan, 
^  Heyford,  co.  Northants,  and  of  Sir  John 
jJ^ton,  Bart.,  of   Furness,    co.    Lancaster, 

notorious  papists  and  delinquents,"  on 
iJTistees  in  behalf  of  the  children  of  John 
jym.  It  is  doubtful  to  what  extent  the 
lamily  of  Pym  benefitofl  by  this  order.  The 
*i(low  of  Morgan  claimed  a  prior  right  under 
*  conveyance  from  her  husband  made  as  far 
*^k  as  1637,  and  the  tenants  on  the  estate 
Jjfuaed  to  i»y  their  rents  to  any  one  but 
^  old  Uadlord.    In  1649  AlexAnder  Pym 


petitioned  the  Parliament  for  help  in  getting 
in  the  rents  then  in  arrear,  but  with  what 
result  is  not  known. 

Alexander  Pym  served  the  oflBce  of  Sheriff 
of  Somerset  in  1650-1.  He  is  included  by 
Prynno  among  the  secluded  members  of  the 
Long  Parliament  who  were  living  when  tlie 
Rump  returned  on  7  May,  1659,  and  were  by 
that  body  refused  read  mission  to  the  Parlia- 
ment House  (see  appendix  to  Prynne's  *  Con- 
scientious, Serious,  Theological,  and  Legal 
Quaeres,*  «kc.).  This  is,  I  believe,  the  sole 
authority  for  Alexander  Pym's  M.P.-ship,  but 
it  will  probably  be  deemed  sufficient  evidence 
of  the  fact.  Prynne  must  have  been  well 
acquainted  with  Alexander  Pym,  and  is  hardly 
likely  to  have  been  mistaken  in  enumerating 
him  among  the  "secluded"  M.P.s.  But 
neither  the  constituency  he  representod  nor 
the  date  of  his  election  is  known.  He  is  cer- 
tainly not  mentioned  in  the  'Commons* 
Journals '  as  being  present  in  the  Long  Parlia- 
ment at  any  period  from  its  commencement 
to  the  "Purge"  of  December,  1648,  so  that  it 
is  likely  that  he  was  one  of  the  "  recruiters  " 
returned  on  the  eve  of  the  last-named  event. 
Some  time  back,  in  the  pages  of  *N.  «&  6.* 
(8^*»  S.  V.  330),  I  enumerated  some  six  or  eight 
vacant  seats  for  the  filling  up  of  which  writs 
were  ordered  in  the  years  1647  and  1648,  but 
to  which  no  returns  are  known.  Three  of 
these  were  for  Cornish  boroughs— at  Camel- 
ford,  Penryn,  and  Newport  respectively.  I 
now  suggest  that  Alexander  Pym  was  elected 
for  Newport.  The  writ  for  this  borough,  in 
the  places  of  two  members  deceased^  was 
ordered  on  1  March,  1648.  The  election  did  not 
take  place  until  7  November  following — just 
one  month  before  the  Purge — when  Prynne 
(as  we  learn  from  himself)  was  one  of  the 
members  returned.  Assuming  Alexander 
Pym  to  have  been  his  colleague,  the  lateness 
of  his  election  will  sufficiently  account  for  his 
non-mention  in  the  'Journals.'  I  think  it  the 
more  probable  that  he  was  M.P.  for  Newport 
from  the  fact  (which  I  gather  from  Mr.  A.  F. 
Kobbins's '  History  of  Launceston ')  that  Pym's 
brother-in-law,  Sir  Francis  Drake,  Bart.— an 
active  supporter  of  the  Parliament— then 
resided  at  Werrington  Park,  near  Newport, 
and  exerted  considerable  influence  in  that 
borough,  for  which,  indeed,  he  was  himself 
returned  as  M.P.  after  the  Restoration. 

Pym  does  not  seem  to  have  gone  back  to 
Westminster  in  March,  1660,  when  the  re- 
entrance  into  the  House  of  the  secluded 
members  was  enforced  by  Monk.  At  all 
events,  there  is  no  mention  of  him  in  that 
connexion,  although  h\a  bxoVVvet  V^W\\ft&— 
M.P.  for  Boeralston  aixieel^l— ^^^^^  ^^Xjqxu* 


182 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9«»  s.  vn.  maech  9,  i9oi. 


In  others  of  Prynne's  lists  of  secluded 
members,  printed  early  in  1660,  Alexander 
Pym's  name  does  not  appear.  For  what 
reason  I  do  not  know,  Charles  Pym's  name 
is  absent  also.  The  latest  mention  of  Alex- 
ander Pym  that  I  have  come  upon  is  on 
10  February,  1660,  when  he  was  nominated 
by  the  Rump  Parliament  a  Commissioner  of 
Assessment  for  Westminster.  Not  impro- 
bably he  died  about  this  time.  It  is  certain 
that  he  did  not  live  long  after  the  Restora- 
tion, his  brother  Charles  being  in  possession 
of  Brymore  when  created  a  baronet  in  July, 
1663.  W.  D.  Pink. 

LowtoD,  New  ton-le- Willows. 


VERBS  FORMED  OUT  OF  PROPER  NAMES. 
(SeeO^S.  vi.  248,312.) 

The  following  is  a  list  of  such  verbs.  If 
lesser-known  technical  terms,  which  are  pro- 
bably numerous,  as,  for  instance,  to  "  albert- 
type,"  to  "  talbottype,"  be  omitted,  while 
better -known  formations,  such  as  to 
"kyanize,"  "macadamize,"  are  included, 
there  will,  I  think,  be  no  difficulty  about 
making  such  a  list  complete. 

To  be  alexandered. — To  be  hanged.  This 
expression  arose,  according  to  the  Rev. 
Charles  Rogers,  LL.D.  (see  Royal  Hist.  Soc., 
vol.  viii.,  1880),  from  the  harsh  and  merciless 
manner  in  which  Sir  Jerome  Alexander,  an 
Irish  judge,  and  founder  of  the  Alexander 
Library  at  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  carried 
out  the  duties  of  his  office  (*N.  &  Q.,'  9^  S. 
V.  513). 

To  bant — The  Banting  ti'eatment  was  a 
dangerous  remedy  for  obesity,  in  some  cases 
leading  to  its  disciples  being  crippled  for 
life.  It  consisted  in  reducing  supei^uous  fat 
by  living  on  meat  diet,  and  abstaining  from 
beer,  farinaceous  food,  and  vegetables,  ac- 
cording to  the  method  adopted  by  William 
Banting,  a  London  undertaker,  once  a  very 
fat  man  (born  1796,  died  1878).  Of  this 
method  and  its  origin  there  is  a  full  account 
in  Chcmibers^s  Journal  for  1864,  p.  268. 

To  bink. — Among  commercial  travellers  a 
"  binxer  "  or  **  binkser  "  is  a  slang  term  for 
that  type  of  bagman, 

"  the  gushing  x)er8onage,  with  shiny  hat  and  loud 
voice,  who  scours  the  country,  establishing  a 
character  for  being  the  nuisance  of  the  callmg. 
His  want  of  tact  and  manners,  and  the  number  of 
his  kind  now  on  the  road,  has  generally,  it  is  said, 
changed  the  demeanour  of  tradesmen  towards 
commercial  travellers  from  a  kind  of  courtesy  im- 
plying welcome  to  something  exactly  the  reverse." 
-ai^,  21  December,  1897. 

The  word  probably  had  its  origin  in  a  one- 
aet  farce  by  Stirling  (Joyne,  entitled  *Binka 


the  Bagman.'  Binks  is  there  depicted  as  a 
bragging,  blustering  upstart,  a  "bounder," 
although  his  deportment  during  commercial 
transactions  is  not  alluded  to,  his  vulgar 
behaviour  being  there  confined  to  the  inn  at 
which  he  puts  up. 

To  bishop.— To  murder  by  drowning,  from 
a  man  named  Bishop,  who  in  1831  drowned 
a  boy  in  order  to  sell  his  body  for  dissection. 

To  bokank%  or  "  to  vanish  in  a  bokanhiJ*— 
Dr.  Walter  Balcanqual,  Dean  of  Durham  in 
the  time  of  the  Civil  Wars,  fled  precipitately 
from  the  city  after  the  battle  of  New  burn, 
for  fear  of  the  Scots. 

To  bowdlerize. —  To  expurgate,  in  editing 
a  book,  all  such  words  and  passages  as 
are  deemed  offensive  or  indelicate.  Dr. 
Thomas  Bowdler  having,  in  1818,  published 
an  expurgated  edition  of  Shakespeare.  "  No 
profane  hand,"  says  a  contributor  to 
*N.  &  q:  (4"»  S.  vi.  47),  "shall  dare,  for  me, 
to  curtail  my  Chaucer,  to  bowdlerize  my 
Shakespeare,  or  to  mutilate  my  Milton." 

To  boycott— To  refuse  to  deal  with  a  person, 
to  take  any  notice  of  him,  or  even  to  sell  to 
him.  The  term  arose  in  1881,  when  C^pt 
Boycott,  an  Irish  landlord,  was  thus  ostracized 
by  the  Irish  malcontents.  St.  Paul  exhorts 
Christians  to  **  boycott "  idolators  (2  Cor.  vL 
17),  and  the  Jews  Tboycotted  the  Samaritans 
(Dr.  Brewer,  *  Diet,  of  Phrase  and  Fable '). 

To  buncomize.— To  talk  twaddle.  This  is  said 
to  be  a  journalistic  phrase.    The  word  "  bun- 
combe" is  stated  m  Barr^re  and  Leland's 
dictionary  to  be  neither  from  a  town  named 
Buncombe   (Bartlett*s  'Americanisms')  nor 
from  a  North  Carolina  senator  of  that  name 
(Hotten's    *  Dictionary  of  Slang'),  for  lonff 
before  these  explanations  arose  it  was  usual 
in  New  England  to  express  great  approba- 
tion or  admiration  of  anything  by  calling  it 
"bunkum,"  and  this  was  derived  from  the 
Canadian-French  "Le  buncum  sa"  ("H  est 
bon  comme  9a "),  "It  is  good  as  it  is."   There 
was  a  negro  song  fifty  or  sixty  years  ag<^ 
with  this  refrain,  "Bomsell  ge  mary,  lebrunenm. 
sa."    This  is  presumed  to  be  negro  Canuck — 
French   for    "Ma'm'selle  je  marie,   elle   es*^^ 
bonne  comme  9a "  {i^id). 

To  burke.— To  murder  by  suffocation.    ThL^ 
word  originated  with  the  name  of  an  Irisl^M.  - 
man  who  first  committed  the  crime  in  182:9 
in  Edinburgh,  with  the  view  of  selling  thm< 
body  for  dissection.    He    was   hanged   tbm« 
same  year.    To  burke  a  question  is  therefow-e 
to  strangle  it  in  its  birth  and  cause  it  to  1=»6 
shelved  ;  to  get  rid  of  it  by  some  indir©<3t 
manoeuvre,  as  to  burke  a  Parliamentary  qu^^- 
tion  ;  and  the  word  seems,  through  its  simi- 
loiTYt^  to  the  word  "  balk,"  to  have  putal^eo 


9*  s.  vn.  maboh  9. 1801.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


183 


somewhat  of  the  meaning  of  that  word. 
"'You  don't  mean  to  say  that  he  was 
burkeiJ,  Sam?'  said  Mr.  Pickwick." 

To  calvimze. — To  imbue  with  or  teach  the 
doctrines  of  John  Calvin. 

To  daguerreotype. — To  photograph  after 
the  process  invented,  or  rather  perfected,  by 
Louis  James  Mande  Daguerre,  ot  delineating 
objects  by  the  chemical  action  of  light  upon 
polished  metal  plates  (1789-1851). 

To  dempster.— To  hang.  Old  cant,  from 
"dempster,"  the  executioner,  so  called 
because  it  was  his  duty  to  repeat  the  sentence 
to  the  prisoner  in  open  court.  This  was  dis- 
continued in  1773  (Barr^re  and  Leland). 

To  dewitU — Evidently  with  a  play  upon 
the  name  as  if  it  were  *'do  it."  John  De  Witt, 
the  Dutch  statesman,  was  murdered  by  the 
populace  at  The  Hague  (1625-72). 

To  diddle, — To  cheat  or  overreach,  from 
Jeremy  Diddler  in  Kenny's  farce  of  *  Raising 
the  Wind/ 

To  be  drurycd.— Bishop  Hall,  in  his  sermon 
'Pharisaisme  and  Christianitie,'  preached 
**at  P^ules,"  1  May,  1608,  uses  this  curious  ex- 
pression :  ^ "  Devout  young  gentlemen  whose 
ndre  patrimonies  have  been  druryed  by  the 
Jesuits,"  and  adds  :— 

**  Pardon    the  word,  it  is   their   owne usual 

amon^t  them  to  Bifftiify  B^^iled  and  wip't  of  their 
inhentance ;  from  the  example  of  M.  Henry  Drury 
of  Lawthnll  in  Suffolk  so  defeated  by  the  Jeaaites.^' 
-*N.&Q.,'d»»»S.  i.  194. 

To  tndaooU,—To  act  like  a  constable  of 
that  name  who  arrested  a  woman  whom  he 
mistook  for   a   prostitute.     Subsequent  in- 
vestigation, however,  showed  that  the  con- 
stable's name  ought  not  to  go  down  to  pos- 
terity as  that  of  an  oppressor  of  womankind. 
To  ertutvantze.  —  To  advocate  the  subjec- 
tion of  the  Church  to  the  State.    Thomas 
Eraatus,    a    German    physician,    contended 
originally  for  the  principle  that  all  authority 
shottki  be  denied   the   Church    in    matters 
Meeting  civil  rights  (1624-83). 

S  To  galvanize.— hnigi  Qalvani,  the  Italian 
^yiiologist  and  discoverer  of  galvanism,  was 
>m  1737  and  died  1798. 
To  gasconade.— To  boast.    The  inhabitants 
J*  Gaacony  have  always  been  noted  for  their 


To  gerrymander. —A  political  slang  Ameri- 
canism, meaning  so  to  divide  a  country  or 
^tion  into  representative  districts  as  to 
Pveone  special  political  party  undue  advan- 
^  over  the  others.  From  Elbridge  Gerry. 
Jno  adopted  the  scheme  when  Governor  of 
JlBHnchiiaetts.  Gilbert  Stuart,  the  artist, 
*<^9Ung  at  the  map  of  the  new  diatribution^ 
^th  a  litiJ^  invention  converted  it  into  a 


salamander.  "  No  !  no  ! "  said  Russell  when 
shown  it;  " not  a sala-mander,  Stuart;  call  it 
a  Gerry-mander."  [See  6'*^  S.  xi.  246,  378; 
7"'  S.  xi.  308  ;  xii.  34,  131  ;  S^^  S.  i.  136.] 

To  (/od/reij.— To  murder,  in  allusion,  it  is 
said,  to  the  fate  of  Sir  Edmond  Godfrey; 
but  Lord  Macaulay  refers  the  verb  to  the 
tragic  death  of  Michael  Godfrey,  Deputy 
Governor  of  the  Bank  of  England,  in  July, 
1695  :— 

**  While  they  were  talking,  a  cannon  ball  from  the 
ramparts  laid  Godfrey  dead  at  the  King's  feet.  It 
was  not  found,  however,  that  the  fear  otbeing  God- 
freyed— such  was  during  some  time  the  cant  phrase 
—sufficed  to  prevent  idle  gazers  from  coming  to 
the  trenches.  —*  History  of  England/  chap.  xxi. 
rN.  &Q.,'9»hS.  iv.  445). 

J.  HOLDEN  MacMiCHAEL, 
{To  he  corUintied.) 
.  [Such  words  have  been  discussed  in  *  N.  &  Q/ 
from  time  to  time,  e.g.^  *  Proper  Names  turned  into 
Verbs,*  6***  S.  vi.  345,  and  many  other  references. 
Words  ending  in  -ize  are  being  daily  formed ;  it 
would  be  better,  perhaps,  to  restrict  the  list  to 
words  more  directly  made  out  of  proper  names, 
such  as  to  horace  in  the  reference  just  made.  Infor- 
mation about  many  of  the  words  will  also  be  found 
in  the  *  H.E.D.*] 

REFERENCES  IN  EARLY  ENGLISH 

LITERATURE  TO  DR.  DONNE. 

In  the  course  of  my  somewhat  desultory 

reading  I  have  come  upon  several  references 

in  our  early  literature  to  Dr.  Donne,  which. 

with  the  kind  permission  of  the  Editor  ot 

*  N.  <fe  Q./  I  shall  reproduce  here. 

In  *  Sir  Lucius  Gary,  late  Lord  Viscount  of 
Falkland,  His  Discourse  of  Infallibility,  tbc.,' 
1651,  there  is  the  following  passage  (p.  107): 

"  For  we  seeing  nlainlie,  that  in  the  purest  ages 
many  of  the  chiefest  Doctors  have  contradicted 
some  of  her  [Church  of  Rome]  Tenets,  without 
suspicion  of  Horesie,  are  not  able  to  conceive  how 
a  ooctnne  should,  from  being  indifferent  in  one 
age,  become  necessarie  in  another,  and  the  contrarie 
from  onely  false,  Hereticall, 

As  time  makes  Botches  Pox, 
And  plodding  on  will  make  a  Calfe  an  Oxe, 
especially  if  that  way  had  allwaies  been  walkt  in, 
which  you  now  speak  of.*' 

Against  the  lines  quoted  in  the  above  extract 
the  reference  is  given  on  the  margin  "  Dr.  D." 
They  are  to  be  found  in  the  second  of  Donne's 

*  Satires.' 

Edmund  Qayton,  in  his  'Pleasant  Notes 
upon  Don  Quixot,'  1654,  p.  35,  refers  to  Donne 
in  the^e  terms  (the  lines  quoted  are  from  his 
poem  on  *  The  Storm  ')  :— 

"  Especially  since  the  loss  of  that  famous  Hyliard 
[the  painter],   made  more  famous  by  the  Incom- 
parable expression  of  the  dead  Author, 
A  YvatviV,  c^t  «^^, 
By  Hyliard  drawn©,  \a  YJotOi  «w\v\«Xox'^  > 
By  a  worse  painter  rc\a(V©" 


184 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9«»  s.  vii.  makch  9,  iwi. 


Francis  Osborn,  in  his  address  'To  the 
Header'  ('Advice  to  a  Son/  1673),  links 
Donne's  name  with  those  of  Buckingham  and 
Butler  in  these  terms  :— 

"This  breeds  matter  of  wonder,  why  so  many 
should  hazard  their  Fame,  by  running  and  yelping 
after  those  prodigious  Wits  of  this  last  Age,  S 
[Buckingham],  D  HDonne],  H  [Hudibraa,  as  Butler 
was  sometimes  styled]." 

And  again  (p.  68)  :— 

"This  made  the  Lord  Chancellor  Egerton  the 
willinger   to   exchange    incomparable    Doctor    D 
[Donne]  for  the  less  sufficient,  though  in  this  more 
modest,  Mr.  T.  B." 
Who,  may  I  ask,  was  "  Mr.  T.  B."  ? 

Sir  Richard  Baker,  in  his  '  Chronicle  of  the 
Kings  of  England,'  first  published  in  1644, 
thus  writes  of  Donne  (I  quote  from  the  folio 
of  1684,  p.  427) :~ 

**  And  here  I  desire  the  Readers  leave  to  remem- 
ber two  of  my  own  old  acquaintance,  the  one  was 
Mr.  John  Donne  [the  other  was  Sir  Henry  Wotton], 
who  leaving  Oxford,  lived  at  the  Inns  of  Courts,  not 
dissolute,  but  very  neat ;  a  great  Visitor  of  Ladies, 
a  great  frequenter  of  Playes,  a  great  Writer  of  con- 
ceited Verses ;  until  such  time  as  King  JamesXRking 
notice  of  the  pregnancy  of  his  Wit,  was  a  means 
that  he  betook  him  to  the  study  of  Divinity,  and 
thereupon  proceeding  Doctor,  was  made  Dean  of 
Pauls :  andbecame  so  rare  a  Preacher,  that  he  was 
not  only  commended,  but  even  admired  by  all  that 
heard  him." 

In  'The  Epistle  Dedicatory '  to  'A  Dis- 
course upon  Monsieur  Pascall's  Thoughts,' 
1688,  by  Joseph  Walker,  the  translator,  we 
have  this  allusion  to  Donne : — 

"I  desire  as  Dr.  Donn  did,  to  swim  like  a  Fish, 
quietly  to  my  Long  Home." 

I  shall  be  elad  to  know  in  what  part  of 
Donne's  works  Walker  found  his  simile. 

In  a  little  volume  of  'Essays  on  Several 
Subjects,  written  by  Sir  Tho.  Pope  Blount,' 
1692,  the  writer  refers  to  Donne  in  these 
words  (p.  61)  :— 

"But  on  the  other  hand,  if  Learning  happens 
to  be  in  the  possession  of  a  Fool,  'tis  tiien  out  a 
Bawble,  and  like  Dr.  Donne^^Sun-Dicd  in  the  Grave, 
a  trifle,  and  of  no  use." 

The  reference  is  to  a  passage  in  Donne's  poem 
*  The  Will':— 

Therefore  I  *ll  give  no  more,  but  I  *11  undo 
The  world  by  dying ;  because  love  dies  too. 
Then  all  vour  beauties  will  be  no  more  worth 
Than  gola  in  mines,  where  none  doth  draw  it  forth ; 
And  ali  your  graces  no  more  use  shall  have, 
Tnan  a  sun-dial  in  a  grave. 

The  last  two  lines  are  cited  by  Dr.  Ferriar  in 
his  'Illustrations  of  Sterne.'  The  citation 
suggests  Sterne's  appropriation  of  the  idea 
in  a  passage  from  *  Tristram  Shandy ': — 

**I  verily  believe  I  had  put  by  my  father,  and 
left  him  drawing  a  sun-dial,  for  no  better  purpose 
than  to  he  buried  under  ground." 


In  *The  Letters  of  the  Reverend  Father 
Paul,' 1693,  the  translator,  "Edward  Broken, 
liectorof  Sundridgein  Kent,"  refers  to  Donne^ 
in  his  *  Preface  to  the  Reader,'  as  follows  : — 

"A  very  excellent  Person  [Dr.  Donne],  and  a 
very  good  Friend  of  Father  PauFs  was  once  of  the 
Mind,  that  a  Man  could  not  well  be  called  a  Reader, 
till  he  had  read  a  Book  over." 

Further  on,  in  the  same  preface,  Brown  again 
refers  to  Donne. 

In  a  collection  of  *  Letters  of  S'  Francis 
Bacon,  Baron  of  Verulam,'  kc.,  1702,  the 
editor,  one  "R.  S.,"  of  the  Middle  Temple, 
refers  to  Donne  in  a  foot-note  to  one  of  the 
letters,  thus : — 

**  I  could  not  in  good  Manners  pass  over  in  Silence 
mjr  Lady  of  Bedford ;  so  much  celebrated  for  both 
Twit  and  beauty]  by  that  rare  Wit  of  his  Time 
Doctor  Donne." 

A.  S. 

"Verdure."— It  would  be  interesting,  and 
it  would  be  of  literary  importance,  if  it  could 
be  shown  that  the  plurai  form  "verdures" 
has  standard  authority  in  the  sense  of 
"  pastures."  An  apparent  example  occurs  in 
the  ballad  'John  Hay's  Bonnie  Lassie'  as 
given  in  Allan  Ramsay's  (reprinted)  *Tea- 
Table  Miscellany,'  i.  68.  According  to  this 
version,  the  opening  couplet  of  the  fourth 
stanza  reads  thus : — 
But  if  she  appear  where  verdures  invite  her, 
The  fountains  run  clear,  and  flowers  smell  the 
sweeter. 

This  reading  is  also  given  in  Johnson's  'Soots 
Musical  Museum,'  probably  in  deference  to 
Ramsay.    Robert  Chambers,  apparently  re- 
jecting "verdures,"   reads      where    verdure 
invitelier,"  both  in  his  *  Scottish  Songs  prior 
to  Burns '  and  his  '  Scottish  Songs  Collected 
and  Illustrated,'  2  vols..  1829.*    Other  editors 
follow  Chambers,  but  tne  text  thus  given  is 
unsatisfactory.    If  it  were   possible  t^)  say 
that  "  invite    is  in  the  subjunctive  mood,  the 
reading  would  be  indisputable,  but  the  diffi> 
culty  begins  when  this  possibility  is  seriously^ 
examined.    If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  claus^^ 
is  in  the  indicative  mood,  as  Herd  assumes  in^ 
his  'Scots  Songs,'  "invites  "  is  prohibited  bw^ 
the  necessities  of  the  rime.    If  only  Ram8ay'=- 
"verdures"  were  passable,  the  crux  woul^^ 
finally  disappear  from  a  fine,  but  not  specially 
Scottish  pastoral  ballad.     Thomas  Bayne. 

Water-vole.— This  is  the  name  of  a  rodei a 

of  the  genus  Arvicola,  better  known  as  tj 

water-rat,  though  it  is  not  really  one  of  tl        ) 
Muridie.  What  is  the  derivation  of  the  aecoi — "mc 
part  of  the  word  ?    The  *  Encyclopiedic  Dub.  c- 
tionary '  says  that  the  etymology  is  doabtfi^=vil 
but  suggasts  a  connexion  with  wold,    T  Mw 


9»&vilmabch9,i8oi.]    NOTES  AND  QUEREES. 


185 


German  name  of  the  animal  h  Wiihlniaui, 
uid  I  would  rather  «uggoet  that  "  vole  "  is  ' 
derive*!  from  imhlmi^  t*j  dig  or  burrow,  a^  tViia 
^eems  to  nuit  the  liabits  of  thecrtua-ture,  which 
is  a  vegetable  and  root  feeder.  Todd'^t  *  John- 
son '  has  the  wurd,  but  the  only  reference  it 
^ve«  ia  to  Thomas  Bellas  *  History  of  British 
Quaiirupeds^^  the  first  edition  of  which  ap- 
peared in  1837,  W.  T,  Lynn, 

[Hefi  Prxjf,  SIceat'a  account  of  vo/«  in  W^  8,  in  223.] 

"Folio,"  "Quarto,"  &g.— I  venture  to 
think  that,  if  no  one  else  will  move  in  the 
matter,  librarians  should  enter  their  protent 
Against  the  present  absurd  system  of  indicat- 
ing the  sizes  of  books.  Of  course,  in  the 
first  instance  the  words  ^o/to,  quarto^  octavo^ 
were  terms  of  form -notation  and  not  of  size- 
notation  ;  still,  so  long  as  the  wordi  are  used  in 
a  rough  general  sense  there  is  not  much  harm 
done.  What  I  complain  of  is  the  tirenome 
division  and  subdivision  of  the  term^  till  to 
the  general  public  there  arises  a  bewildering 
confusion  :  certainly  many  a  book  would  be 
differently  defined  by  different  men. 

I  take  from  a  batch  of  booksellers-  cata- 
logues now  before  me  the  following  specimens, 
csoufining  myself,  for  the  sake  oi  brevity,  to 
octam  only :  Octavo  (small,  medium,  square, 
octavo),  crown  octavo  (large*   small,  extra. 
wide,  crown),  demy  octavo,  post  octavo  (small 
pott),  foolscap  octavo  (large,  extra,  foolscap), 
pott  octavo  (extra  pott),  royal  octavo,  imijerial 
oetavo.     The  catalogues   were  all   English  ; 
liftd  foreign  ones  been  included,  some  other 
TMieties  would  have  had  to  be  introduced. 

In  the  library  I  have  the  honour  to  be  con- 
nected with  the  plan  has  long  been  adopted 
of  indicating  in  the  catalogue  the  sizes  of 
nKidern  booKs  by  the  inches  of  height  and 
*idtb  (e>0.,  6  in.  by  4in.X  which  miphfc  be 
■^mphfied  by  giving  the  height  onlv,  since  in 
tli^  great  mass  of  books  thert*  in  mum  the  same 
proportion.  A  book  would  be  called,  e.£^.,  six 
iDcfiea  when  of  clear  six  and  under  seven. 
•Wioaa  who  wish  for  greater  precision  might 
p'e  the  dimensions  in  millimetres,  but  per- 
"*P*  for  mmt  people  a  reckoning  by  incnes, 
^bj^  half- inches,  would  suffice.  R.  B. 

iTablea  of  sizes  of  books  are  Kiveii  in  6^i*  B.  xi.  164 
*a*J  m    S©e  also  6**'  S,  m.  373 ;  7**  S.  n.  407,  5lG  j 

PoOTT  Dfi  Qalle.—  Apropos  of  Leghorn, 
^iSfOH  Tayixjr  refers  innt€,  p.  110)  to  the 
^Ofruptions  that  have  befallen  other  place- 
^m%  and  writes:  **Galla,  Hhe  atone»'  the 
oiftgalese  name  of  a  rocky  cape  in  (Jeylon, 
*to  made  by  the  Portuguese  into  Point  de 
Qille,  the  '  cock  cape,'  and  the  town  adopted 


I 


a  cock  as  its  crest."  I  do  not  know  who  first 
sugge^ited  the  above  derivation  for  the  name 
of  Galle,  but  it  is  tdlerably  venerable,  and  it 
is  about  time  it  wore  laia  to  reat^  for  it  ia 
utterly  untenable.  The  Sinhalese  name  is 
Gal  la,  whereas  a  rock  or  *4tone  in  the  same 
language  is  gala  (with  only  one  ^  and  short  a). 
There  nave  betm  various  sugg&stions  as  to 
the  origin  of  Gal  la,  but  even  the  beat  native 
scholars  appear  to  be  unable  satisfactorily  to 
solve  the  mfficulty.  The  statement  that  the 
Portuguese  made  the  Sinhalese  name  into 
"Point  de  Galle"  is  incorrect  and  absurd. 
The  earliest  Portuguese  writers  on  India 
agree  in  calling  the  place  the  port  of  Gale  or 
Galle,  and  the  village  or  town  was  invariably 
referred  to  by  the  Portuguese  as  Gale  or 
Galle  (the  a  being  somotimes  written  d  to 
show  that  it  was  pr<mounced  long).  The 
rocky  point  on  whico  the  Portuguese  fort  of 
Galle  was  erected  was  called  Ponta  de  Galle, 
and  the  Dutch,  who  ousted  the  Portuguese 
from  Ceylon,  transferred  this  name  to  the 
town  itself,  sometimas  writing  it  as  one  word, 
"Puntogale,"  After  the  British  seizure  of 
Ceylon  the  place  continued  to  be  called  Point 
de  Galle  for  many  yeara,  but  it  is  now  known 
simply  as  Galle  (pronounced  like  Gaul)-  Yule, 
in  '  Hobson-Jobson '  <^.v,  *  Galle,  Point  de*), 
aays,  "The  Portuguese  gave  the  town  for 
cresit  a  cock  {Gailo\  a  legitimate  pun."  I 
doubt  the  statement^  and  believe  that  the 
Dutch  were  the  first  Ui  adopt  the  cock  crest. 
The  pun  may  be  legitimate,  but  it  is  very 
farfetched.  Donalp  Fergui^on. 

Croydon. 

Machyk's  *Diahy,'  !55a-6a.— At  p.  310  of 
this  *  Diary,'  as  edited  by  Nichols  for  the 
Camden  Society  from  the  Cotton ian  MS. 
(Brit.  Mus.)  Vit.  F.  r.^  we  find  the  following 
curious,  but  (owing  to  injury  by  fire)  un- 
fortunately imperfect  entry : — 

'*  1563  The  XKVJ  day  of  June  ther  waa  taken  in 
Dystaffe  lane  the  tieraun  of  Abchyreh©  be-»yd  Lon- 
don a  tone ......  he  hiivyntf  a  wyff,  atid  wher  that  he  la 

a-bowU^.^«..havo  hys  pleBLBiir  ou  hep,  «nd  offered  her 
aatten  moneys  and  the  [ila*e  [ap-jponted,  and  she 
mad  her  fryiidea  fawaro]  of  yt,  and  ao  Ihey  atoii  in  a 
pldsca  tyll  he  had  mad.... ..on  with  gowne  aod  jakett, 

ftnd  downe  with  ho»se " 

I  have,  however,  recently  chanced  to  meet 
with,  in  Lamb.  MS.  30fi,  fol-  71b,  a  contem- 
porary entry,  apparently  by  John  Stow,  the 
antiquary,  which  not  only  practically  sup- 
plies the  missing  portions  as  above,  but  also 
throws  further  light  on  the  subject,  as 
follows  :— 

"  Anno  1563.  y*  36.  of  Jiioe  w  as  a  inynysiter  panion 
of  sont  mark'  aWlvort^he,  o!  fient  iiiartyns  in  Jar- 
nmngarlane*  it  of  one  nthar  benitice  in  y*  cui\Uw^ 


186 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [»*  s.  vil  march  9.  iwi. 


takyn  at  dystaffe  lane,  vssynge  an  other  mans 
wjne  as  his  owne,  whiche  was  dawghtar  to  ser 
myles  partryge  &  wyffe   to   wyllyam    stokebrcgo 


aboute  his  knes,  his  gowno  &  his  (kyvar  knave)  natt 
borne  afiftar  hyni  w*  niyche  honor,  but  he  lay  not 
longe  ther,  but  was  defy  veryd  w*  owt  punyshment, 
k  styll  Inioyed  his  beneffysis,  they  were  greatly 
blamed  that  aprehended  hym,  and  comitted  bym." 

The  "parson  "  referred  to  was  George  Bar- 
ton, A.M.,  appointed  to  the  rectory  of  St.  Mary 
Abchurch  by  Queen  Elizabeth,  12  March, 
1660/1,  and  depnved  of  the  same  May,  1567. 
He  was  rector  of  St.  Swithin,  London,  from 
some  time  after  19  April,  1554,  until  1561,  and 
of  St.  Martin  Pomeroy,  London,  1560-68. 

I  may  add  that,  having  collated  the  extract 
from  the  Camden  Society's  edition  as  above 
with  the  original  (imperfect)  entry,  I  find  in 
the  printed  text  several  errors  both  of  com- 
mission and  omission.  W.  I.  R.  V. 

SOUTHEY    AND     SWEDENBORG.— Writing    to 

his  friend  Grosvenor  C.  Bedford  under  date 
6  July,  1805,  Robert  Sou  they  treated  his 
correspondent  to  a  supposed  extract  from 
the  teachings  of  Emanuel  Swedenborg,  with 
comments,  7nore  *?to.  by  the  transcriber.  On 
the  same  day  Soutney  wrote  from  Keswick 
to  Miss  Barker  informing  her  that  ho  was 
"studying  Sweden  borgianism  for  Don 
Manuel,''  t.c,  for  his  book  which  appeared 
anonymously  in  1807,  in  three  volumes,  as 
"Letters  from  England,  by  Don  Manuel 
Alvarez  Espriella,  translated  from  the 
Spanish,"  wherein  letter  Ixii.  is  headed 
'Account  of  Sweden  borgianism.'  The  ad- 
herents of  Swedenborg  appear  to  have 
ignored  the  letter  at  the  time  of  its  appear- 
ance, and,  indeed,  throughout  the  remainder 
of  the  nineteenth  century  !  But  in  the  open- 
ing months  of  the  new  century  this  defect 
has  been  remedied  by  the  Rev.  James  Hyde, 
librarian  to  the  Swedenborg  Society  and  com-  j 
piler  of  the  coming  *  Bibliography  of  Sweden- ' 
Dorg,'  who,  in  the  New  Church  weekly  journal 
Morning  Light  for  19  and  26  January  and 
2  February,  "  goes  for  "  Don  Manuel  and  his 
"translator  "  in  due  form.  This  task  involves 
notice  of  the  sources  of  Southey's  informa- 
tion— or  misinformation — including  some  of 
the  few  known  facts  concerning  an  obscure 
little  society  of  illtmiinds  "formed  in  the 
north  of  Europe  during  the  year  1779,"  but 
removed  later,  oy  '*instructions  from  heaven," 
to  Avignon  in  the  south  of  France.  The 
threefold  article  well  deserves  perusal  by 
those  interested  in  such  byways  of  religious 
history  and  controversy. 

Charles  Higham. 


Ireland  and  Frogs.  —  Most  people  are 
aware  that  Ireland  can  lx)a8t  a  complete  im- 
munity from  all  venomous  reptiles,  even  the 
comparatively  unobjectionable  specimens, 
such  as  adders,  snakes,  slow- worms,  ana 
toads,  which  abound  in  England,  being  un- 
known in  the  sister  isle.-  But  it  is  not  so 
generally  known  that  this  really  remarkable 
exemption  (traditionally  ascribed  to  the  exer- 
tions of  Ireland's  patron  saint,  St.  Patrick) 
formerly  extended  to  that  harmless,  but 
scarcely  necessary  animal,  the  common  frog. 
Frogs  were  actually  unknown  in  Ireland,  at 
least  during  histonc  times,  before  the  begin- 
ning of  the  eighteenth  century.  About  that 
penod  a  certain  Dr.  Qwyther,  a  physician 
and  Fellow  of  Dublin  University,  and  pro- 
bably an  Englishman,  brought  over  with  him 
from  England  a  number  of  frogs,  in  order  to 
introduce  the  species  into  Ireland. 

These  he  established  in  the  ditchas  of  the 
university  park,  but  apparently  they  shared 
the  dislike  to  living  in  Ireland  then  almost 
universal  amongst  natives  of  England.  At 
any  rate,  they  did  not  thrive  in  their  new 
abode,  and  soon  all  died,  leaving  no  offspring 
behind  them. 

The  indefatigable  Dr.  Gwy  ther  then  sent  to 
England  for  some  bottles  of  frog -spawn, 
which  he  threw  into  the  same  ditches.  This 
second  experiment  was  crowned  with  a  suc- 
cess which  it  scarcely  deserved.  The  spawn 
developj3d  duly  into  frogs,  which  lived  and 
multiplied,  though  not  at  first  with  great 
quickness.  So  late,  indeed,  as  the  year  1720 
not  a  frog  was  to  be  seen  anywhere  in  Ire- 
land except  in  the  neighbourhood  of  that 
cradle  of  their  race,  tne  university  park. 
But  within  six  or  seven  years  more  tliey  had 
spread  over  a  spa^e  of  fifty  miles,  and  by 
degrees  they  tooK  possession  of  the  whole 
country.  Tne  writer,  being  Irish,  can  t(\stify 
that  at  the  present  day  they  are  quite  as 
abundant  in  Ireland  as  in  any  other  part  of 
the  British  Isles. 

Dean  Swift  in  his  works  alludes  more  than 
once  to  the  rapid  spread  of  what  he  calls  **  the 
colony  of  frogs."  In  a  poem  written  in  1726 
he  represents  the  shade  of  St.  Patrick  as 
lamenting  over  Irish  degeneracy,  and  de- 
claring that  the  frogs  had  been  sent  by  him 
as  a  national  judgment  :— 

As  you  grew  more  dejgenerate  and  base, 
I  Bent  you  millions  ofthe  croaking  race. 

Ireland  has  certainly  no  great  cause  for 
gratitude  to  Dr.  Gwyther,  who  was  probably 
influenced  by  that  misguided  species  of 
patriotism  which  introduced  the  rabbit  into 
Australia  and  the  sparrow  into  America, 
w\\\\  d^ig^ot^Jola  vesults  in  both  cases.    His 


Vn.  March  9, 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


187 


d  of  signalizing  the  opening  of  a  new 
y  seems  to  suggest  rather  a  dangerous 
ent  at  the  present  epoch.  Let  us  hope 
16  next  few  years  will  not  hereafter  be 
ibered  as  the  time  when  the  blood- 
r  mosquito  or  the  murderous  rattle- 
was  naturalized  in  England  by  the 
ms  of  some  home -sick  exile  from 
il  climes !  Camilla  Jebb. 


noflt  reauest  correspondents  desirmg  infor- 
on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
*  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 


Accession  of  Edward  VII.  —  On 
lay,  the  28th  of  February,  the  English 
I  Catholics  .in  Paris  commemorated 
ng's  accession  by  the  celebration  of 
nass    at    the  church  in   the  Avenue 

At  the  close  of  the  mass  the  National 
n  was  sung.  Do  readers  of  *  N.  &  Q.' 
»f  any  similar  celebrations  ? 

N.  S.  S. 

Arbuthnott — I  have  a  miniature, 
ntly  by  Andrew  Plimer  or  some  artist 
>poch,  of  a  Mrs.  Arbuthnott.  a  woman 
irkable  beauty.    It  is  a  well-executed 

Are  there  any  means  of  tracing  the 
J?  T.N. 

E."— This  word  appears  to  be  used  in 
)arts  of  England  m  oaths  and  impre- 
phrases.     "What  the  pize  ails  'em?" 

the  pize  is  the  matter  ? "  are  phrases 
ard  in  Northamptonshire,  Suffolk,  and 
"  Pize  lit  on  't ! "  is  heard  in  North 
ast  Yorkshire.  "  A  pize  upon  it ! " 
6  upon  thee  ! "  appear  often  in  the 
»f  Smollett's  novels.     Can  any  of  your 

suggest  an  etymology  for  "pize"? 

A.  L.  Mayhew. 
i. 

ndale's  four-volume  edition  of  Ogilvie's 
il  Dictionary'  defines  pize  as  "an  annoying 
:ward  circumstance  :  often  used  inter- 
ily  or  as  a  mild  oath/'  and  gives  the 
>n  as  *'0.E.  pewe,  j^eizCt  peazey  a  weight,  a 

FoY  was  admitted   to  Westminster 
on  15  January,  17(>6.    I  should  be  glad 
in  any  information  concerning  him 
G.  F.  R.  B. 

•BELLS  OF  Ardkinc; LASS.— Can  any  of 

iaders  who  possess  information  on  the 

of   the    Campbells   of   Ardkinglaas 

ae  information  on  the  subject  ?    Also 


have  any  of  them  ever  seen  a  work  called 
*  Genealogies  of  all  Branches  of  the  Camp- 
bells,' by  James  Duncanson,  published  at 
Inveraray  in  1777?  Neither  the  Bodleian  nor 
British  Museum  library  possesses  the  book. 
NiALL  D.  Campbell. 
28,  Clarges  Street,  W. 

"CuRTANA."  — In  1689  William  George 
Richard,  Earl  of  Derby,  petitioned  the  Court 
of  Claims  to  be  allow^  to  carry  before  their 
majesties  at  their  coronation  the  sword  called 
curtana,  by  reason  of  his  tenure  of  the  Isle  of 
Man  (see  p.  228,  Kenyon  MS.).  Was  the  claim 
allowed  ?  What  kind  of  sword  is  curtana  ? 
Richard  Lawson. 

Urmston. 

r*S.  Edwardi  Confessoris  Angl.  Regis  gladius, 
vel  ensis,  qui  in  Regum  Anglorum  coronatione  a 
Cestrensi  Comite  prsefertur  inter  duos  ^ladios 
alterum  lustitise  temporalis,  alteruni  spintualis. 
Matth.  Paris.  *  de  Apparatunuptiarum  Heurici  III.' 
anno  1236."  See  Ducange,  s.v.  *  Curtana.'  There  is 
also  a  full  account  in  the  *H.E.D.'] 

J.  W.  M.,  A  Painter.  —  The  owner  of  a 
small  picture,  rather  Dutch  in  style,  but 
apparently  under  Venetian  influence,  repre- 
senting Christ  in  the  kitchen  of  Martha  and 
Mary,  desires  to  find  out  by  whom  it  was 
painted.  On  the  stool  by  the  table  in  the 
kitchen  are  the  initials  J.  W.  M.,  with  the  date 
1758  (sic)  below  them.    In  Nagler's  *Mono- 

frammisten '  it  appears  that  Johann  Wilhelm 
Leil,  a  painter  born  at  Altenburg  in  1733, 
wlio  died  in  Berlin  in  1805,  si^ed  his  works 
by  these  initials.  Is  it  known  if  he  produced, 
or  copied,  a  painting  representing  the  afore- 
said scene  from  the  Gospel  ? 

E.  S.   DODOSON. 

*Ode  to  the  North  Cape.'— Would  some 
reader  kindly  inform  me  who  wrote  an  *  Ode 
to  the  North  Cape  *  ?  It  is  many  years  since 
I  read  the  lines,  which  I  fancied  were  written 
by  Longfellow  J  but  neither  in  *  Birds  of 
Passage  nor  *  Poems  of  the  Sea  *  could  I  find 
it.  I  do  not  forget  *The  Discoverer  of  the 
North  Cape,'  but  the  piece  I  have  lost  is 
more  of  a  soliloquy  than  a  narrative. 

A.  J.  Beobie. 

Printer's  Proof  of  Poems.— A  parcel  of 
books  I  recently  had  from  town  was  wrapped 
up  in  some  proof-sheets  of  poems  (pp.  1-128). 
These  are  really  very  fine,  some  of  tnem,  and 
worthy  of  a  poet  of  high  repute.  Thev  begin 
with  a  long  poem  in  blank  verse  called  *Sir 
Launcelot,'  and  some  of  the  other  poems  are 

*  Ode  on  the  Return  of  Sprinc,*  *  A  Ballad  of 
Remorse,'    'Tale   of   the    Coloured   8hAU.< 

*  The  Monk;  *  Sleep '  '  On  \X\e  X^iiOciwci^Bcii?, 
Mystery    and    YreaWeaa    ol   \ivi^     ^waa 


188 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9»»8.vil  march  9.1901. 


sonnets,  &c.  If  any  of  your  readers  could 
tell  me  the  author  of  these  and  the  title  of 
the  book  containing  them,  I  should  be  much 
obliged.  The  merit  of  the  poems  struck  me 
much.  F.  B.  DovETON. 

Karsfield,  Torquay. 

Anglo-Hebrew  Slang:  "Kybosh.''  (See 
ante,  p.  lO.)— It  is  explained  that  hybosh  is  a 
slang  term  for  eigh teen-pence.  I  should  like 
to  be  informed  whether  kybosh  and  kyebosk 
signify  the  same  thing,  the  latter  word  is 
used  by  Dickens  in  describing  a  scene  in 
Seven  Dials  :— 

"•What  do  you  mean  by  hussies?'  interrupts  a 
champion  of  tne  other  party,  who  has  evinced  a 
strong  inclination  to  get  up  a  branch  fight  on  her 
own  account.  (*  Hooroar,  ejaculates  a  pot  -  boy 
inparenthesis,  *  put  the  kyebosk  on  her,  Mary !  ^) 
*  What  do  you  mean  by  hussies?'  reiterates  the 
champion."—*  Sketches  by  Boz,'  chap.  v. 

What  is  the  meaning  of  the  phrase  "  to  put 
on  the  kyebosk "  ?  I  think  I  remember  the 
question  having  been  asked  before  and  that 
no  satisfactory  explanation  was  given,  but 
cannot  find  the  reference.  John  Hebb. 

[Henley  and  Farmer,  *  Slang  and  its  Analogues.' 
quote  the  passage  and  give  meaning   "  to  stop, 
*' silence,"  or  **  run  down.^'J 

Allusion  in  Wordsworth.— To  whom  does 
Wordsworth  allude  in  *  The  Warninij ,'  a  sequel 

to  poem  xxxii.,  *  To upon  the  birth  of  her 

firstborn  child '  ?— 

The  crown 
Of  Saxon  liberty  that  Alfred  wore, 
Alfred,  dear  Babe,  thy  great  Progenitor  ! 

F.  O. 

Ships  moving  without  Sail  or  Wind.— 
In  the  *  Life  of  Gar  rick,'  by  Tom  Davies,  1780, 
1  find  the  following  : — 

"Mr.  Pritchard,  an  honest,  good-natured  man» 
the  husband  of  the  great  actress,  had  laid  out  a 
scheme  to  relieve  infirm  players.  But  little  hopes 
could  be  expected  from  a  projector  who  proposed  to 
build  a  ship  which  could  move  on  the  water  without 
cither  sails  or  wind."— II.  305. 

Was  the  proposal  ever  published ;  if  so, 
when  and  where  can  I  find  it  ? 

EvERAiiD  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Bell-ringing  at  Wakes.— Were  bells  rung 
at  these  ?  In  *  Memoirs  of  P.  P.,  Clerk  of  this 
Parish,  by  Mr.  Pope,'  but  incorporated  in 
Dean  Swift's  *  Works'  (London,  1776,  vol.  iv. 
p.  212),  is  the  following : — 

**I  was  acquainted  with  every  sett  of  bells  in 
the  whole  country:  neither  could  I  be  prevailed 
upon  to  absent  myself  from  wakes,  being  called 
thereunto  by  the  harmony  of  the  steeple." 

Ibaou^ 


Hume's  Portrait.  —  Can  any  of  your 
readers  kindly  indicate  the  present  where- 
abouts of  the  portrait  of  David  Hume,  the 
historian,  as  painted  by  Ramsay  in  1766,  of 
which  a  mezzotint  was  prepared  and  pub- 
lished by  Martin,  price  5«.  each,  in  1767  i 

M. 

Thackeray.— Why  was  Thackeray's  draw- 
ing of  the  Marquis  of  Steyne  suppressed  in 
the  second  and  later  editions  of  Vanity 
Fair'?  Richard  H.  Thornton. 

Portland,  Oregon. 

Author  of  Hymn  Wanted.— Who  is  the 
author  of  the  under-mentioned  poem,  and 
where  can  I  obtain  a  book  containing  itl 
I  am  only  in  possession  of  a  line  or  so.  It 
commences  thus : — 

I  was  wandering  and  weary 
When  my  Saviour  came  unto  me ; 
The  days  were  long  and  dreary. 

Each  verse  ends  :— 

0  silly  soul,  come  near  Me, 
My  sheep  should  never  fear  Me, 

1  am  the  Shepherd  true. 
There  are,  I  think,  four  other  verses. 

Ed.  J.  Alexander. 

A  Walton  Relic— In  the  Evening  Standard 
a  short  time  ago  I  noticed  the  following  para- 
graph :— 

**  In  an  old  curiosity  shop  near  Westminster  is 
a  fishing-bag  formerly  belonging  to  Izaak  Walton, 
bearing  his  initials  and  the  date  1646.     It  is  be- 
lieved to  have  come  out  of  one  of  the  old  houses 
recently  demolished  near  the  Abbey.    It  was  filled 
with  old  letters  and  other  papers." 
The  relic  has  since  changed  hands,  and  I 
fortunately  have  had  the  opportunity  of  in- 
specting tnia  unique  fishing  creel,  which  is 
made  of  stout  leather  and  is  a  most  interest- 
ing specimen  of  seventeenth-century  work- 
An  inscription  upon  it  runs  thus:  **J.  D« 
Anderson,  1646,  from  his  friend  Izaak  Wal- 
ton," near  which  are  the  initials  I.  W. ;  and. 
upon  the  inside  of  the  lid  the  letters  again, 
appear,  as  if  impressed  upon  the  leather  withm 
a  hot  iron.     Can  any  of  your  readers  thro^wr 
light    upon    this   friend    of   Izaak    Walton^ 
"J.  D.  Anderson"]  Allan  Fba. 

Calice  House,  Newnham,  Kent. 

Dame  Ann  Combe.— I  shall  feel  greatly 
obliged  for  any  information  concerning  the 
family  of  Dame  Ann  Combe.  In  the  Dailt/ 
Mail  of  10  December,  1900,  appeared  the  fol- 
lowing :— 

**  Buried  Cotfin-lida  revive  an  Old  ScandaL— Cor- 
poration workmen  excavating  for  drainage  came 
upon  the  lids  two  or  three  feet  below  the  surface. 
A  coat  of  arms  was  plainly  visible  on  each  lid,  sou 
one  of  them  bore  the  following  inscription:— 


9»8.vilmaech9.i90i.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


189 


"•Here  lyeth  buried  the  boddy  of  Dame  Ann 
Combe,  the  dutiful  and  respectful  daughter  of  her 
father,  late  of  Ashenden,  lu  the  county  of  Essex, 
Esquire,  and  the  beloved  wife  of  Richard  Combe, 
Hemel  Hempstead,  in  the  county  of  Hertford, 
Knight,  April  XT'**,  1658.* 

"This  find  seems  to  establish  the  truth  of  a  story 
which  much  excited  the  district  some  twelve  years 
ago.  The  then  vicar  of  Hemel  Hempstead,  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Robinson,  was  accused  of  having  removed 
some  of  the  coffins  from  the  vault  in  the  church." 

What  has  become  of  the  coflfin  and  body  of 
Dame  Ann  Combe  ?  F.  T.  Cansick. 

Oulton,  Salisbury  Road,  Bamet. 

HisTOBY  OP  Seals.— Mr.  T.  Hudson  Turner, 
in  a  paper  of  'Remarks  on  Personal  Seals 
during  the  Middle  Ages '  {Arck.  Joum,^  v.  1), 
says: — 

**  A  catalogue  of  the  subjects  of  all  intaglios  of 
which  ancient  impressions  are  known  to  exist  in 
England  would  form  a  curious,  and  possibly  valu- 
able, contribution  to  glyptographical  knowledge." 

This  was  written  in  March,  1848.  Has  any 
such  catalogue  since  appeared  1  I  am  aware 
of  the  hanasome  volumes  of  'Catalogues  of 
Seals '  issued  by  the  British  Museum  authori- 
ties. My  present  inquiry  relates  especially  to 
the  question  of  the  use  of  intaglios  as  seals. 
T.  Cann  Hughes,  M.A.,  F.S.A. 
Lancaster. 

Epitaph  op  John  Nichols.  —  Will  any 
reader  of  'N.  <k  Q/  ohlige  by  giving  the 
epitaph  of  John  Nichols,  printer  and  author 
ot  the  '  History  of  Leicestershire '  ?  It  is  in 
the  church  of  St.  Bride,  Fleet  Street.  He 
was  the  successor  to  William  Bowyer,  printer, 
»nd  died  Sunday,  26  November,  1827. 

H.  Thompson. 

Moorgate  Street,  Leicester. 

Jewish  Abchitbots.— Can  any  reader  of 
N.  &  Q.*  inform  me  whether  there  were  any 
jell-known  Jewish  architects  in  the  Middle 
Ages  and  Renaissance  ?  Also,  were  there  any 
Jewish  architects  in  England  from  1750  to 
1850,  and  what  were  their  names  1 

Citizen. 

"Been."— I  have  had  a  discussion  lately 
^ith  a  friend  as  to  the  proper  pronunciation 
of  this  word.  He  assorts  that  bean  "  is  the 
correct  way  of  pronouncing  tlie  word,  whilst 
I  am  of  opinion,  supported  by  Webster's 
Wionary,  that  "bin"  is  the  proper  and 
general  mode  of  pronunciation.  I  have  not 
the  advantage  of  being  able  to  refer  to  the 
H.ED.,'  but  perhaps  some  reader  of  this 
Rnery  will  do  me  the  favour  of  enlightening 
Qte  on  the  matter.  A.  K.  Belungham. 

[The  *  H.B.D.'  gives  for  the  i^ast  fiarticiple  two 
Ii'^Qiiciatioiit:  mn,  bin.     The  long  italic  vowel 


Manuscripts  at  Paris.— Will  any  of  your 
readers  who  have  obtained  facsimiles  of 
documents  in  the  Paris  archives  be  so  cood 
as  to  furnish  me  with  the  name  and  address 
of  a  firm  of  photographers  which  executes 
such  work  ?  Seiriol. 

Monuments  in  Gilling  Church.— I  have 
before  me  an  engraving  of  a  curious  monu- 
ment existing  in  1848  on  the  north  side  of 
Gilling  Church,  Yorkshire.  It  is  said  to  be 
over  the  grave  of  the  founder.  His  arms  are 
on  a  shield  on  the  right-hand  side  as  you  look 
at  the  picture.  They  consist  of  three  birds 
(possibly  martlets)  on  a  bend  across  the 
shield.  Can  any  Yorkshire  antiquary  say 
whom  the  monument  is  meant  to  com- 
memorate?   T.  Cann  Hughes,  M.  A.,  F.S.A. 

Lancaster. 


DOUBTFUL  PASSAGES  IN  CHAUCER. 

(9^h  S.  vii.  82.) 
A  terrible  mistake  has  crept  into  Mr. 
Leland's  curious  and  most  scholarly  article 
in  col.  1  of  p.  83  —  a  mistake  which  he 
himself  eluciaates  in  the  last  lines  of 
p.  83  and  the  first  lines  of  p.  84.  The 
rubible  was  identical  with  the  early  fiddle 
known  as  the  rubebe^  ribecca^  rebeck,  &c., 
all  of  which  took  their  origin  from  the 
earliest  known  bow  instrument  (pace  the 
Chinese  ur-hin\  the  Moorish  rebdo,  which 
was  introduced  into  Europe  by  the  Moors 
vid  North  Africa  and  Spain,  and  by  the 
Goths  vid  Gtermany.  Note  in  this  connexion 
the  line  of  Baba  Tahir : — 
I  will  string  my  rebdb  with  two  strands  of  thy  hair. 
It  was  not  a  Jews'  harp,  though  the  old 
prints  give  it  the  outline  of  that  unmelodious 
instrument.  I  have  sheaves  of  notes  on 
this  instrument.  The  curious  should  consult 
M.  Laurent  Grillet's  monumental  work  'Les 
Anc^ti-es  du  Violon '  «fec.  (Paris,  1901.  vol.  i. 
p.  127),  and  the  eruaite  work  of  Sandys  and 
Forster,  *The  History  of  the  Violin  *  (London, 
1864).  At  p.  44  of  the  latter  occurs  this 
passage  :— 

**A  gay  young  clergyman  of  the  time  of  Ed- 
ward II.}  when  he  goes  out 

He  putteth  in  his  pawtener 

A  kerchief  &;  a  comb, 

A  skewer  &  a  coyf 

To  bynd  with  his  loks, 

And  ratyl  in  the  rowhyhle 

And  in  non  other  boks 
Ne  mos." 

But  the  learned    Sandys    does   not  give  a 
locus   cldssicus   for    his  quotation,  which  I 


190 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9*  s.  vn.  march  9.  iwi. 


have  chased  liir  years,  but  never  caught. 
The  word  ruhiUt  occurs  again  in  Chaucer, 
in  connexion  with  the  Idle  Apprentice  in 
*  The  Cook^s  Tale.' 

Another  grave  error  has  crept  in  anent 
the  dulcimer.  The  dulcimer  is  identical  with 
the  cemlndo  played  by  the  central  figure  in 
the  familiar  bands  from  Blue,  Red,  Green, 
and  Yellow  Hungary,  which  interrupt  con- 
versation at  the  m<Kiern  **  rout." 

**  A  pocket  pistol  "  a-s  a  terra  for  a  flask  is 
universal,  b«t  the  gla^sa  or  earthenware  tlaak 
in  the  shape  of  a  piijtol  with  a  cork  in  the 
muzzle  is  not  **  invariably  antique/'  I  saw 
two  recently  in  Wardour  Street,  made*  I  dare 
awtsir,  within  twelve  months  in  Venice  or 
Bavaria.  You  can  get  them  in  the  Frezzariaj 
and  in  the  Marienstraase  at  Munich  in  any 
quantity.  Edward  Heron-Allen, 

It  is  curious  to  have  Chauffer  credited!  with 
a  knowledge  of  arrowroot  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  his  **  gal  inhale"  is  galanga,  8,ud 
very  little  that  it  is  Alpinia  gala^tga  a  species 
of  ^ingiberaceie;  used  for  the  same  purposes 
as  Rinaer,  It  occurs  in  the  glossary  at  the 
ena  of  Prof.  Henslow's  'Medical  Works  of 
the  Fourteenth  Century  '  with  a  reference  to 
Chaucer,  and  in  the  *Alphita'  glossary  as 
follows  :  **  Galanga,  ciperus  babi  Ionic  us  idem  ; 
gall  et  anpl.  galyngaie."  In  some  old  raedical 
works  it  IS  met  with  as  Maranta  *jalanga, 
which  may  have  led  your  correspondent  to 
confuse  it  with  arrowroot.  G,  C,  B. 

I  think  Me.  Lrland  is  wron^in  saying  that 
Tyrwhitt  was  incorrect  in  defining  *'chirking  " 
a-^  chirping.  The  late  Dr.  Morris  gives  it  that 
definition,  anrl  adds  also  ''  creaking,"  In  *  The 
Sompnoure's  Tale,'  tK3  7,  we  have 

And  ki^t  her  Bwete,  and  chirkith  as  a  sparwa 

With  hii  lippes. 

In  'The   Personal  Tal^'  section  *De    Ira,* 
occurs  "chirfcyng  of  dores*';  and  in  'The 
House  of  Fame,*  Liber  Tertius,  852-3, 
Thi«  house  waa  also  ful  of  gygges, 
And  also  ful  eke  of  chirkyngea. 

"Gfygges"are  given  in  Dr  Morrises  glossary 
as  "irregular  sounds  product  by  the  wind. 
Mr.    pobson     has,    in     *The     Maltworm's 
Madrigal/ 

The  sparrow  when  he  npieih  his  Dear  upon  the  tre«, 
He  beateth'to  his  littk  wing  t  he  chirketh  lustily. 

The  root  idea  throughout  is  that  of  whistling. 

The  Tromptorium  l*arvulorum'  givei^  ^*Chvr- 

kyn,  sifjilo;'  and  "Chyrkynge,  Kfoilnttts.''  the 

notes  on    "Chyrk^n"  and    **Cherkyn"  are 

in  teres  tin^t  as|>ecially    the    statement    that 

in  connexion  with  the  line  under  notico  the 

term  is  used  "  to  exprm^  generally  a  disagto^ 


able  sound."  The  sound,  however,  made  by  a 
cart-wheel  need  not  be  ai??ai3!reeable,  aa  those 
who  have  heard  the  "hillside  rouaic"  from 
the  brakes  and  wheels  of  qnarrj"  waggons 
whistling  under  the  stress  of  their  heavy 
blocks  of  atone  can  testify.  HalliweO  gives 
"  Chirk,  to  chirp,"  and  says  it  is  applied  to 
the  noi-ses  of  various  animals.  The  '  ri.E.D/ 
confirms  the  preceding  statements,  and  further 
draws  a  distinction  oetween  "  chark  **  (0*K 
cmrcian),  which  is  associated  with  iiricf-fr*, 
and  **  chirk,"  which  is  used  to  express  a 
thinner  sound. 

In  the  short  summer   nights,  when   the 
sparrow  talks  in  his  sleep  he  unconsciously 
reproduces  the  vocal  inflexions  of  the  nighl^ 
ingale.    There  is  hut  a  difference  in  sou  no. 
Arthuk  Mayalu 


A  MuBsi/LMAN  Legend  of  Job  (9""  8.  vii. 
63).— A  few  friendly  notes  on  this  interesting 
contribution  by  Mr*  March akt  may  not  oe 
out  of  place  here. 

In  line  8  "  Khazret-Ayoub— t.ff,,  holy  Joh," 
is  surely  a  mistake  for  Hazrat  Ayoub  (no 
hy]?henX  bis  highness  Job,  Musulmans  (not* 
as  in  the  title,  with  **  in  middle  of  word), 
when  speaking  of  the  ancient  prophets,  in- 
variably prefix  the  word  Hazrat  to  the  name: 
Hazrat  Ay^h,  Eaa:rat  Ibrihim,  Hazrat  Daiid, 
ikc,  just  as  they  invariably  say  Kazrat  Isa 
(,Tesus)  and  Hazrat  Muhammad-  "Like 
Aaron's  rod  or  the  staff  in  *  Tan nhauser,*  Job's 
staff  broke  into  foHage."  The  Musulmans 
believe  that  it  wa8  a  serpent  into  which 
Aaron's  rod  was  changed.  "Uroala  himself 
is  not  honoured  as  Khazret,  holy."  This  was 
because  he  was  not  an  ancient  prophet, 
but  a  modern- descendant.  Hazi'ut  is  a  lemi- 
nine  substantive,  not  an  adjeetivei  holy.  Cf, 
ecctlenza  in  Italian.  Michael  Ferrab. 

Little  Giddinf?*  Ealing. 

"MoHET  tbustkb"  (9^  S.  vii.  67).— The 
first  brief  obtained  by  Lord  Brougham  was 
for  the  defence  of  a  criminal  at  the  Circuit 
Court  of  Justiciary  at  Perth,  His  lordship 
was  then  an  advocate  at  the  Scottish  Bar. 
The  agent  who  employed  him  was  the  late 
Mr,  Thomas  Gibson,  writer  in  Perth,  who 
afterwards  became  a  farmer  at  Bel  hie.  H© 
used  in  his  latter  days  to  refer  with  pride  to 
the  fact  of  Ids  having  been  the  first  to  retain 
the  future  Lord  Chancellor,      A.  G.  EEin. 

Auchterarder. 

See  a  version  of  this  story  told  of  the  great 

St  Ives,  son  of  Hclor,  in  *  Lcs  Vies  tlen  Saints 
de  Bretagne,'  by  Dom  Guy- Alexis  LoMaeaa, 
divtloTL  18S7^  vol  iii*  pp*  8-10.    Bt  Ives  was 


9*  8.  vn.  maech  9, 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


191 


Cou  Hekey  Hugh  Mitchell  (9"*  S,  vii. 
107)  was  not,  m  supposed,  the  only  officer 
below  the  rank  of  general  mentioned  in  the 
Waterloo  dispatch.  "The  Engineers  and 
Artillery,  commanded  by  Col  Smyth  and  Sir 
George  Wood  respectively,  gave  me  much 
sat  infection/  or  to  that  effect^  is  a  paragraph 
from  the  dispatch.  This  Col.  Smyth,  after- 
^anrls  Major-Qeneral  Sir  James  Carraichael 
Smyth,  Bartwf  wa«  Governor  of  the  Bahamas, 
RobifDqueiifcly  of  British  Quiana,  where  he 
died  in  1838*  Field-Marshal  Sir  John  Forster 
Fitzgeraldj  who  died  at  ao  arivanced  ago 
mme  quarter  of  a  century  back,  was  gazetted 
fto  ensign  at  twelve  years  of  age.    D:  F.  G* 

pJUNT  GitJSKPFE  Pecchio  (Q^^  S.  vi,  308, 395  ; 
vii.  51).— Monsieur  Pecchio  (as  he  liked  to  be 
called)  was  not  a  count  though  Sydney  Smith 
in  Ihe  amusing  tale  of  his  wedding  terms  him 
ooant  {^ee  *  Memoir  of  Eev.  S^'dney  Smith,' 
^oL  i.  pp.  176-7).  He  married  Philippa, 
aaiaghter  of  the  late  Beniamin  Brooks  bank, 
of  Hekugh  Hall,  co.  V^ork.  As  her  family 
did  not  approve,  the  bridegroom  having  no 
^ney,  the  wedding  took  place  from  Sydney 
Smith's  house  at  Foston.  His  widow  never 
chaoged  the  fashion  of  her  dress  after  his 
dmth.  1  remember  her  in  the  early  sixties 
(whea  all  women  wore  large  crinolines  and 
Mi»ll  sleeves)  in  a  short,  tight  skirt  with 
pttftd  tops  to  the  aleevea.  He  wag  an 
^xoellent  and  charming  man,  quite  unlike 

^B'AuvEBGNB  Family  (9^''  B.  vii,  68,  117, 
n^l— In  reply  to  Mk.  Aii^deeson  it  is  nec^- 
fp  toP*^J^t  o*^t  that  the  communication  to 

?i.  (fe  Q,'  from  a  high  authority  on  French 
iwnOy  descenta,  the  Marquis  de  Monclar 
mk,  p,  117)^  shows  that  P.  Dauvergne,  what- 
fi^erhe  was,  waa  not  either  "titular  Duke  of 
watllon  "  rior  "a  peer  of  France,"  whatever 
f*>tt  roay  mean.  The  term  "  peer  of  France  " 
^  only  use^l  in  France  of  tnose  who  were 
^bers  of  the  Upper  House  during  the 
««*o!utiooarymonarchyofJuly— i.e,,between 
J%,  183IJ,  and  February,  184a  D, 

MEDLIiVAL  TiTlfE  BabNS  (9^  S.  vj,  309, 
^.  Am ;  vii,  93), —There  is  in  Mr.  Charles  G. 
wpers  *The  Bath  Road  *  a  good  iUusti-ation 
wone  still  to  be  seen  at  Harraondsworth  :— 

."An  ancient  tithe  barn Bt&niling    next   the 

JJj^b,  via  once  jiart  of  an  obscure  Priary  standinj^ 
•**».  The  *Gotliic  B&ni'  is  bailt  precisely  on 
T^^iutiflal  linfift,  with  navt^  and  a  tales,  and  is 
?f^iit«tl  of  the  tit  be  bams  now  re  main  in  j^  in 
JJWmw,  hmn^  on©  hundred  and  ninety-one  fe«t  in 
iJTOMid  tbtrty^cij^ht  f^ot  in  breadth.  The  walla 
JJNit  of  a  rongh  kind  of  congjomenite  foaad  in 
*•  kmli^  mad  (sailed  pitridini^'stonc,...Thg  in- 


torjor  of  the  bam  i^  a  vast  niais  of  oak  eolumns  an 
ot^ien  roofing," 

The  illustration  referred  to  is  of  this  interior, 
liJCHARP  Lawson. 
Urmstoii. 

Chavasse  Family  ^Q"^  8.  vii.  48,  130).— Db* 
FoRSHAW  ought  to  know  that  the  Right  Rev, 
Francis  James  Chavasse  does  not  now  reside 
at  Wycliffe  Lodge,  Oxford,  but  at  The  Palace, 
Abercromby  Square,  Liverfsjol,  by  virtue  of 
his  office  as  Bishop  of  Liverpool.  Strict 
accuracy  m  an  essential  in  *  N,  ife  Q.^ 

T,  Cakk  HuGBEa,  M.A. 

Laacaater. 

Dr.  Foeshaw  has  unaccountably  omitted 
to  state  that  the  14 ev,  Francis  James 
Chavasse,  sometime  Principal  of  WyclilTe 
Hall,  Oxford,  and  brother  of  Dr.  Chavetsse., 
of  Birmingham,  is  the  present  Bishop  of 
Liverpool.  For  the  sake  of  historical  accu- 
racy m  *N.  ik  0/  this  should  appear.  A 
cousin  of  the  bishop's  was,  some  few  yeai-s 
since,  a  resident  tutor  at  Oxford— possibly 
is  now.  He,  I  suppfjsie,  is  a  son  of  Dr,  Pye 
Chavasse.  U.  T.  Sauhdirb. 

Binninghain, 

"Tapping  "  akd  "TiPPiNti  '^  (9*^  B.  vii,  105). 
— May  one  suggest  that  theie  is  an  important 
difference  between  "  tapping  "  and  *^  tipping," 
in  that  the  former  is  done  by  the  waiter  and 
the  latter  by  the  visitor?  Presumably  the 
waiter  taps  the  visitor's  pocket ;  and  the 
analogy  lies  in  such  expressions  as  "  tapping 
a  ctk^k,  '* tapping  the  treasury,"  and  *^ tapping 
telegraph  w^ires.  But  there  is  an  overlapping^ 
even  in  the  derivation  ;  for  Webster,  under 
*  Tip,'  v,t,,  with  a  meaning  '*  to  bestow  gifts 
upon,"  compares  **  L.G.  Uppen,  to  tap,  Sw. 
tijjpdf  and  E,  tapy  to  strike  gently." 

Akthur  Mayall. 

Mr.  Gill,  KC,  was  perfectly  right.  **  Tap- 
ping" is  the  opposite  to  **  tipping,"  it  being 
the  demand  or  hint  for  a  debt,  I^^b-"*  or  **tip." 
It  is  very  common  to  hear  a  man  say  to  his 
comjianion  in  the  street, on  l>eing  asked  what 
a  third  person  wanted,  "He  wanted  to  tap  me 
for  a  fiver.'*  The  allusion  is  to  the  tap  on  the 
shoulder  from  the  old-time  sheriif' s  officer, 
perhaps  latt-erly  confu^wd  with  a  beer  tap; 
quite  different  wonJs,  of  course.      H,  P.  L, 

Ralegh's  Si*; nature  (if^'  S.  vii.  7,  l.'aS),— 
The  statement  of  your  i^orrosnonflent  R,  R, 
as  to  the  descendants  of  Sir  Walter  having 
changed  tht*  mode  of  spelling  their  name  to 
*'  Rjilei^li "  is  not  altogether  cotcect.  TVx^a 
signatures  of  \\i%  sou  Ca'c©'^.^  ei.w\  ^V  VJ^a 
latter^^  children  and  ^T:aiidc\\Adt^u^  Yos^tv 


192 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9*^  s.  vil  makch  9.  iwi. 


ably  appear  m  "Rulegh,"  Faanimilea  of  all 
will  be  fouini  in  Misc.  GeneaL  it  HertjUd.^ 
ed.  Howard,  ii.  (1869-76X  155-7.  Amongst 
them  iH  that  of  *' Phillip  Halegh/'  although 
hia  name  as  the  publi^hor  of  the  'Abndg- 
ment '  U  uotef]  &»  '*  Raleigh  "  ou  the  titlo- 
page.  The/ Abridgment'  was  the  work  of 
Laurence  Echarrl.  The  frontispiece  portrait 
of  Sir  Walter  is  a  copy  of  one  first  pub- 
lished in  the  1617  edition  of  his  '  Hiiitory  of 
the  World/  It  wau  through  the  children  of 
Sir  Walt©r*s  brother  Carew  that  the  name 
"  Raleigh  "  waa  permanently  adopted  aa  the 
family  patron ymit;, 

J,  N*  Beushfield,  M.D, 

**Carteely'*  (9"*  S.  vii.  a8).— The  Rev.  T. 
Lewi^  O.  Daideft,  in  his  *  Supplementary  Eng- 
H&h  Gloamry,'  defines  this  word  aa  **  pertain- 
ing to  the  cart,  and  so  rustics  clowniah."  He 
gives  the  following  quotation  for  its  use  in 
that  sense  :— 

**  Thence  aptoutc^ih  that  obaci«ne  apii«lUtloii  of 
Hapfiing  8&tiaea,  with  the  dralib  of  the  carietii/ 
hoblobs  thtsreabouts*"  —  Nashe,  '  Lent^Ei  i^taffe' 
(H»rL  Misc.,  vi.  ISO). 

EVERABD  Home  CoLEMAlf. 
71,  Bracknock  Road, 

Simon  Feaber  (S^^  S.  x.  im,  223  ^gth  y^  ^* 
157,  338,  433;  vii,  16,  51,  75,  116). —The  Ret. 
JoHif  PiCKFoRD  is  right  The  portrait  of 
Lord  Lovat  in  Mib^  Hiirs  work  appeared  at 
an  earlier  date  in  Thomson's  *  History  of  the 
Jacobites '(1845),  R.  B. 

Upton. 

My  query  is  yet  unanswered.  I  have  Lord 
Lovat'ij  picture,  and  want  the  picture  of 
Simon  Fraser,  his  eldest  hou,  who  fought  at 
Quebec  in  1759.  F,  W.  J.  has  evidently  mis- 
apprehended the  object  of  my  quest. 

J,    Moss   ROBEETSOK. 

Toronto,  O&nada. 

Men  wearing  EAREiNca  (9^  S,  v.  8B,  191. 
321,386;  vL  35).— 

"HiH  d&t-k  f^kin  and  the  small  gold  rings  in  hlii 
oara,  HO  tniiQh  affectod  by  Welah  sailors,  gave  him 
a  foriiiKii  look,  which  rather  added  to  the  attrac- 
livene^e  of  hie  j>er8onaI  apjrjeiarance,'' — '  Garthowen/ 
by  Allen  Raine,  p.  12. 

C.  C.  B. 

Cap  of  Maintenance  (!•*  B.  vi,  324  ;  4*^  S* 

ii.  560  ;  viii.  399,448,  520  ;  B^*^^  S.  v.  288,  415).— 
1  must  a|jolo^ixe  for  again  intnxlucing  this 
hardy  perennial  into  the  pagps  of  *  N.  &  t^,'  ; 
hut^  ^  notwitliHUmding  all  the  information 
previously 


fiven,   there  are   two  questionn 
still    desiire   enli||htounieu^    if 
pomibh.     Firstj   How  did  this  velvet  audi     "I'tvc  tinitn,  wjncli  l  tiaa  assumoti  to  De  in  ! 
eemine  cAap^au  /^et  it^   name  of  ^^  Cap  of  \  miiAii\WiLu\i\\^&\A^^i^^i^ 


Maintenance  "  ?    Second,  Why  was  it  <M,rrift 

before  the  King  at  the  recent  opening  c 
Parliament  I  It  forms  no  pai-t  of  the  regalif 
and  does  not  appear  at  a  coronation. 

J.  B.  R 

Latin  Lines  (9'"''  S,  vi.  410,  474  ;  vii.  12i; 
The  verses  to  which  Whim  refers  are  found  \ 
a  curious  dog- Latin  poem  printed  in  Wiight 
'Keliquiffi  Antiquse,'  and  reprinted  (1847)  \ 
Du   Merira  "Poesies   Populaires  Latine^  c 
Moyen  Age,'  p.  214,    The  poem  describe?* 
drinking  bout  in  the  abbey  of  Gloucester  :- 
Quondam  f uit  factuii  fe&lujj, 
Et  voeatus  ad  comaietatiii^i 
Abbaa,  prior  d&  Glowceslrna, 
cnni  lotus  fatnilia, 

Abbaa  ire  aede  siirsurn, 
Et  PrioriB  juxta  ijwum  ; 
Ego  aemper  stavi  dorsum 

inter  raa^alllia ; 

Vinuni  venit  sanffuinstis 
Ad  Prioris  et  Abbatis  i 
Nihil  nobis  panpertatis, 

st?d  od  dives  omnia. 

Then  they  drink  a  "currinum"  togetb 
whatever  that  may  be,  and 

Dixit  AbbiiA  ad  Prioris, 

Tu  es  horno  boni  nioria. 

Quia  aettni-ier  saniom 

n]ih)  daa  consilia. 

Post  c^mpletnm  rediere, 
El  curriuufli  conibibere, 
Polavemnt  usque  fie  re 

propter  [xitus  plurima> 

Prior  dixit  ad  AV^batia, 
Ipsi  hab«nt  vinuni  satis ; 
Vultia  dare  iianpertatis 

no9ter  potus  omnia? 

Shortly  after  this  come^  the  catastniphu  \— 
Abbas  yomit  et  Prioris ; 
Vomis  cadit  super  fioris  ; 
Ego  pauper  steti  fori  a, 

et  nou  aum  libtitia. 

Then  apiwara  the  *'  Antistis,"  the  bishop,  aj 
uses  the  sharp  end  of  his  crook.  The  writi 
who  *'  stoo<i  back  among  the  raacalry,"  loo 
on  with  grim  pleasantry, 

RicHAJio  H.  Thoehton 
Portland,  Oregon, 

SuwARHOPF  AND  Mas^mna  (O'*'  S,  vii,  108) 
This  happy  X'epartee  seem.^  to  be  one  of  thi 
TimU  which  are  repeat-ed,  like  an  air  or  tu: 
with  variationi^,  the  utt4^ranoL*  itself  bei 
the  main  thing,  and  the  circumstaiKi??* 
time,  place,  and  [xsrson  being  but  the  ^ 
ting.  Tf*e  version  given  by  >In,  Fokuej^ 
new  t4>  me,  and  1  cannot  locate  it ;  hiit  I  i; 
give  two  other  versions,  if  tliese  will  be 
any  use  or  of  any  interest. 

The  ftnitn,  which  I  had  assumed  to  be  in  t 


9«»S.VIL  March  9. 1901.]       NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


193 


'Biographia  Lttemria,'  No.  2  of  Satyrane's 
Letters  (p,  255,  Beir«  edition,  1870)  ;— 

"When  BuoDftpart-e  waa  in  ItAly,  having  beep 
imt^led  by  some  instance  of  |>eirfiiiyT  he  aaid,  in  & 
loud  and  vehement  tpne,  in  a  pablic  (xim|>atiy,  *  'Tia 
a  true  proverb.  *'gli  It&li&ni  tuUi  ladrojii  (i.e.,  the 
If  alian;^  are  &1I  pltmderern).  A  la^ly  h&d  the  coura^ 
to  rep^  '  Non  tiitti,  nm  buoim  parte  *  { Not  all,  hut 
a  ^ooa  part,  or  BuonatHkfte).  Thia.  I  confess, 
sounded  to  my  eara  as  one  of  the  good  thingfi  that 
mtirht  have  b^n  said." 

It  will,  of  course,  be  remembered  tbat  Napo 
leon  was  a  Corsican. 

I  forget  where,  but  I  have  seen  somewhere 
another  turn  given  to  this  incident,  the  occa- 
sion of  the  remark  and  repartee  being  a  con- 
ver^tation  on  Italian  banditti,  and  the  ques- 
tion being  addresseti  by  Napoleon  to  the  lady 
a**  a  sort  of  insolent  jeat,  "Pray»  madam,  are 
«/^  your  countrymen  robberal^ 

The  other  and  briefer  version  I  transcribe 
from  Catherine  Taylor's  'Letterti  from  Italy,' 
vol.  i.  p.  239  (Murray,  1840),  In  a  letter  on 
Pasquinades  she  say.s  ;  — 

"At  the  time  when  the  French  were  in  poasession 
of  Rome,  the  caustic  jester  [PaaquiH J  thus  welcomed 
them:  — 

1  Francesci  aon  tutti  ladri. 


Non  ttitti— ma  btumiii  parte  I " 
It  U  just  possible  that  the  yanae  form  of 
repartee  may  have  occurred  to  more  than  one 

Jerson  quite  independently ;  but,  as  Dr. 
ohnson  observes  in  his  *  Life  of  Waller,* 
"Pointed  axioms  and  acute  replies  fly  loose 
about  the  world,  and  are  assigned  to  those 
whom  it  may  be  the  fashion  to  celebrate." 

In  *^ Secret  Memoirs  of  Napoleon,^  by 
Charles  Doris  (1896),  p.  119,  may  be  seen 
another  clever  pun  at  the  expense  of  the 
Corsican.  C.  Lawkknce  Forll  B,A. 

Bath. 

Charlotte  Eaton,  in  her  *  Home  in  the  Nine- 
teenth Century*  (Eohn.  1852),  vol  ii.  p.  120, 
says  that  one  of  the  mmba  affixed  to  the 
statue  of  Pa.Hquin  wm^  '*  1  Francesi  son'  tutti 
larlri  *' ;  the  answer  affixed  to  the  statue  of 
Marforio  was,  "Non  tutti— ma  Buana  parte/' 
It  is  not  said  when  this  squib  appeared,  Mrs. 
Enton  was  a  niece  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  and 
published  her  book  about  1820.  If  the 
Russian  warrior  ever  used  the  words,  lie 
pn>bahly  lj<>rrowc(i  them  from  the  Uoman 
wit.  M,  N.  G. 

Vol.  i.  p.  494,  *  Life  of  Tennyson,*  by  his< 
son  (1897),  roa^ls  i  "What  plea-ned  my  fath«ir 
was  the  replj  of  the  Italian  lady  U*  Napo- 
leon, who  said  to  her,  'Tutti  Italiaiii  souo 
perfidi  !*— *Non  tutti,  ma  Buona  parte."' 


The  National  Flag  (9"»  S.  v.  414,  440, 
457,  478 ;  Supplement,  30  June ;  vi.  17,  31, 
351,  451,  619).— -Once  thrashed  out,  always 
thrashed  out,  does  not  appear  to  be  the 
motto  of  the  Standard.  During  the  past 
month  various  letters  have  appeal^  in  that 
paper  about  *Our  National  Flag/  That 
subject,  undoubtedly  of  great  interest  and 
moment  at  the  present  day,  was,  however, 
fully  discussed  at  the  above  references. 

S.  S.  J. 

Horses  with  Four  White  Stockings  Toll- 
free  (9"*  S.  vi.  507  ;  vii.  111).— It  is  noticeable 
that  the  breeders  of  Clydesdale  horses  have 
apparently  changed  their  views  in  recent 
years  regarding  the  colours  of  their  animals. 
A  few  years  ago  the  preference  was  for  black 
legs  and  faces,  with  as  little  white  in  them  as 
possible.  This  fashion  has  ceased.  In  the 
magnificent  animals  yoked  to  the  lorries  in 
Glasgow  streets  white  faces  and  white  stock- 
ings are  at  present  probably  in  the  majority. 
The  same  thing  was  observable  among  tne 
entire  horses  exhibited  at  a  show  of  Clydes- 
dales at  Glasgow  on  6  February.  Variety  in 
colour  is  now  apparently  allowed,  if  it  is 
not  actually  cultivated.  The  modern  expert 
would  appear  to  ignore  the  old  scruples  as 
to  white  faces  and  stockings,  four  of  the 
latter  being  now  no  rarity  whatever. 

Thomas  Bayne. 

Book  of  Common  Prayer  (9'*»  S.  vii.  126).— 
If  your  correspondent  had  referred  to  the 
Revised  Version  of  the  New  Testament  he 
would  have  found  a  similar  change  in 
St.  Matthew  vi.  10,  which  now  reads  :  "Thy 
will  be  done,  as  in  heaven,  so  on  earthy 
which  is  virtually  the  old  reading  of  this 
clause  of  the  Lorcfs  Prayer  in  St.  Luke  xi.  2, 
Authorized  Version.  The  Revised  Version 
omits  it  altogether  from  the  text  of  St.  Luke, 
but  retains  it  in  the  margin.  There  is,  by 
the  way,  another  and  a  more  startling  change 
of  punctuation  in  the  Revised  Version  of 
1  Corinthians  xv.  32,  which  now  reads  : — 

**  If  after  the  manner  of  men  I  fought  with  beasts 
at  Ephesus,  what  doth  it  profit  me?  If  the  dead 
are  not  raised,  let  us  eat  and  drink,  for  to-morrow 
we  die." 

C.  C.  B. 

Bonaparte  Ballad  (9^^  S.  vi.  349).— I  have 
a  miserable  -  looking  broadside,  bought  in 
Shoreditch  some  years  ago,  and  entitled 
'Deeds  of  Napoleon,'  on  which  are  printe<l 
two  ballads,  one  being  *TheIsleof  St.  Helena/ 
referred  to  by  Mr.  W.  H.  Patterson.  It  has 
six  stanzas,  instead  of  the  five  quoted  by  him 
The  arrangement  of  the  couplets  U  o^vU^ 


194 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     p*^  s.  vil  mahch  9,  iwi. 


the  text ;  but  I  c&nnot  say  that  I  fiud  it  a 
much  more  literary  or  intolligible  production 
than  the  version  he  givers,  I  shall  be  glad 
to  aetid  it  to  him  for  ingpectioOi  if  he  cares  l-o 
aeeiL  Herbert  K  Clarke. 

11,  Queen 'a  UoRdj  Beck  en  ham. 

"Nunty"  (9*^  S.  vii,  130).— This  word  was 
familiar  to  me,  from  my  earliest  recollections, 
in  East  Yorkf^hire.  It  was  mof^t  comrootily 
used  by  women  in  describing  articlejj  of  dress, 
and  I  think  the  ra&in  idea  was  that  of 
skimpinefts  or  scantiness.  A  bonnet  or  a 
jacket  that  seemed  too  small  for  the  wearer, 
and  whose  trimniins^rs  were  tame  and  insuffi- 
cient,  was  said  to  be  "nunty,"  Applied  to 
,pen4ons,  it  generally  meant  stumpy,  stunted, 
insignificant.  W.  C.  B. 

The  Dog  and  the  Gamekeeper  (9"^  S.  vii. 
107).— The  etorv  is  sufficiently  ancient  and 
well  known  to  have  become  included  among 
a  series  of  such  anecdotes  in  a  small  handbook 
of  Welsh  and  English  for  day-school  use.  In 
the  Welsh  version  the  species  of  the  dog  is 
not  named,  the  river  is  tlie  Seine,  and  many 
of  the  details  given  in  L€  Petit  Tertips  are 
missing ;  but  we  have  the  pleasing  additional 
information  that  the  animal  was  highly  grati- 
fied to  have  saved  its  master. 

Jeafnie  S.  Popham. 

There  is  a  would-be  Italian  quotation  in 
the  first  paragraph  of  this  contribution  that 
calls  for  correction.  One  knows  "Se  non  h 
veto,  egli  e  state  un  bel  trovato,"  from  Doni's 
'  I  Marmi^*  and  "  Se  non  ^  vero,  h  molto  ben 
trovato,"  from  Bruno's  *Gli  Eroici  Furori,' 
quoted  UHU ally  without  "molto";  but  "si 
non  vera  e'^  (three  mistakes  in  four  words), 
within  quotation  marks^  one  does  not  find, 

A:RTEUR  JfAYALL, 

SiE  James  Douglas  (9*^  8.  vii,  28,  93).— I 
find  that  the  *D.N*B/  creates  considerable 
havoc  among  the  Douglas  marriages  given  in 
Sir  Robert  Douglases  *  Peerage  ol  Scotland  * 
(ed.  Wood,  1813),  vol.  i.»  and  agrees  with  Sir 
Her  BEET  Maxwell  in  preferring  Elizabeth^ 
daughter  of  Alexander  the  Steward,  to  a 
daughter  of  William  de  Keith,  as  the  first 
wife  of  Sir  William  "le  Hardi"  and  mother 
of  the  good  Sir  James,  Barbour  calls  Jaiue^, 
High  Steward  of  Scotland,  the  hero's  '*eme,'* 
or  uncle.  The  aforesaid  *  Peerage,^  moreover, 
ffives  Elizabeth  Steward  to  another  William 
de  Douglas,  Lord  of  Lug  ton  and  ancestor  of 
the  Earls  of  Morton,  A,  IL  Bayley. 

Hi.  Margaret*fi,  Mahom* 

A  Friday  Superstition  (9^*<  S,  vi.  265,  373, 
454).—  Few  servants  care  to  enter  a  new 
aituation  on  Friday >    That  I  kueir,  but  wqm 


surprised  to  find  there  was  also  something 
about  Saturday.  With  difficulty  I  got  at  the 
reason-  ''Of  course  ? Aw  did  not  believe  it^ 
but- — ''  They  looked  at  each  other  and 
shook  their  heads.  It  was  that  Saturday, 
though  "no  harm  to  the  servant,  was  unlucky 
for  the  mistress,  and  a  girl  coming  in  on  that 
day  would  not  do  to  keep."  These  aervanU 
hsJd  been  quite  twenty  years  in  London,  one 
from  Hants  and  the  other  Huntingdooahire. 
They  said  all  servants  knew  about  Satur- 
days. IbaouI 

[We  fiod,  on  iiiqairy,  the  idea  ia  generaU  A 
servant  who  arrives  on  Saturda^^  is  sure  to  run 
away.  ] 

Seb^ieant  George  Hill,  1716-1808  (9**  S, 
vii.  68).— His  father  was  the  Hev.  Kathanid 
Hill,  ALA.,  sometime  rector  of  Waddington, 
CO.  Lincoln  (aged  about  ten  years  at  the 
Heralds*  Visitation  of  Northamptonshire  in 
1681),  who,  on  the  death  of  his  elder  brother 
Edward  Hill,  8  April,  1709,  succeeded  to  the 
family  estate  of  liothwell,  co.  Northampton, 
where  he  died  28  ApriL  1732,  leaving  by  his 
wife  Elizabeth,  only  daughter  ana  heir  of 
Stephen  Lodington,of  Wadding  ton  aforesaid, 
the  said  George  Hill  a,s  his  eldest  sou  and 
heir.  He  was  born  at  Waddington  in  1716, 
and  died  21  February,  1808,  aged  ninety -two, 
being  buriefl  at  llothwell,  A  full  account  of 
this  family  of  Hill  is  given  in  the  Gerwfdf^ut 
(New  Series),  vol,  xv.  O,  E.  C. 

MargKBY  (9^  S,  vi.  151,  352,  455  ;  vii.  38). 
—At  9*^  S.  vi,  455  Mr.  John  T.  Page  asks 
whether  Margett  is  a  variant  of  Margaret 
These  names  were  certainly  at  one  time  con- 
sidered distinct^  no  identity  being  recognized 
l>etween  EliKabeth  and  Isabel ;  between 
Margaret,  Maryet,  and  Margery  ;  between 
Gelian  and  Julian;  between  Agnes  and  Anne. 
The  passage  I  cite  is  from  the  black-letter 
case  of  ifariot  w,  Mascal,  Common  Bench, 
Hilary  Term,  29  EHz.  It  throws  light  also 
on  the  use  of  two  names  or  words  in  baptism, 
the  two  (or  more)  being  counted  as  one 
Christian  name;  and  on  change  of  name  at 
one  s  confirmation  :^ 

'*  Le  Ley  .....nij  voile  suffer  ftscuii  ehoae  d'eatre 
alt«r  ©n  le  Chriatian  nome  de  home  ^lucujc  ion  %'oile 
breifment  reporieri  k  primes  cat  d'cstre  a^rec  q'mi 
ne  i>oit  aver  detiK  nomes  Chriaiiims  a  iiji  terti|«  eins 
Tioit  aver  deux  |>arol9  tm  pluwors  pur  nii  iiome.  come 
Thonms  Maria  Wingfield.  &  ThoTiias  Maria  eat  le 
nome  de  BapLiHmo,  &  Wingfield  lo  aurtiome,  H 
isHint  lat  de  John  FitK  Ralph  CbamlK?rlent  John 
Fitz-Rjilph  ml  Ic  n<»me  de  BaptUtne,  &  Cliaaiberlen 
lo  II liter  nonie*  ql  noma  no  i>oiot  estre  alter,  mtnmi 
([■un  *»oit  Bap ti  1*0  per  un  nosroe,  k  apre»  cionlinDe 
P  fluter,  en  iiael  Case  ad  eatre  t^nui  q'  le  nome  de 
Ba[>tiKine  o«*t  a  respects  alter,  &  1©  nome  ii©r  auel 
&&t  cotillmie  dst  le  noaie  del  i>er8ou,  Actd  aom^  doit 


9»  8.  vn.  mabch  9, 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


195 


le  person  confirme  tout  temps  apres  user  &  nemy 
le  nome  de  Baptisroe.  Et  sur  c  eo  ad  estre  agree  que 
Elizabeth  k  Isabel  n'est  ou  poient  eatre  un  nome  in 
26  L  Ass.  p.  16,  &  30  1.  Ass.  29,  est  a  voyer  oue  Mar- 
raret  Maryet  ou  Margery  vary  &  sont  aivers,  & 
^  1.  Ass.  p.  16,  Gelian  k  Julian  soit  (sont)  tenus 
severals.  &  en  c  e^tt  Case  grant  al  uu  ne  serra  prise 

r&nt  a  le  auter,  k  Agnes  k  Anne  ne  sont  un  conje 
appere  33  H.  6,  19  H.  6."— Anderson's  Reports, 
ed.  1664.  p.  212. 

"Eins"  is  nevertheless,  "issint"  likewise, 
and  "  nemy  "  not. 

RicHAED  H.  Thornton. 
Portland,  Oregon. 

Marget  or  Margett  is,  of  course,  a  very 
common  form  of  Margerv.  Is  there  any  con- 
nexion between  it  and  Alargetting,  so  familiar 
to  the  readers  of  Nicholas  Ferrar's  *  Memoirs,* 
or  with  Margaretting,  a  post  town  in  Essex  ? 
Michael  Ferrar. 

little  Gidding,  Ealing. 

Monolith  with  Cup -markings  in  Hyde 
Paek  (9"»  S.  vii.  69,  116).— By  far  the  finest 
example  of  a  cresset  stone  in  Europe  I  con- 
sider to  be  the  seven-cupped  one  in  the  ancient 
fifteenth  -  century  church  of  St.  Martin  at 
Lewannick.  in  North-Eastem  Cornwall.  A 
measured  arawing  of  it  by  myself  appeared 
in  the  Buudirig  News  for  13  June,  1879. 

Harry  Hems 

Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

The  relaticm  of  monoliths,  such  as  those  of 
Hyde  Park,  Stonehenge,  Carnac,  &c.,  to  phallic 
worship  is  a  large  question  treated  of  in  the 
extensive  literature  on  megalith ic  remains  to 
^hich  Fergusson  and  many  others  liave  con- 
tributed. I  have  not  a  copy  of  the  paper 
*t  hand,  but  I  think  the  subject  was  briefly 
noticed  by  me  when  drawing  attention  to 
moDoliths  and  cup-markings  in  India,  vide 
'N.AQ.;  'Ancient  Masons' Marks,'  8^»»  S.  vii. 
334.  Recent  research  goes  to  support  the 
view  referred  to  by  your  correspondent.  Un- 
iQckily,  no  information  is  available  as  to  the 
companion  stones  in  Cornwall  or  Devonshire 
mentioned  by  the  Board  of  Works.  My 
query  was  inserted  in  the  hope  of  tracing  the 
locality,  and  of  obtaining  other  details. 

J.  H.  Rivett-Carnac. 
Colonel,  A.D.C.  to  the  King. 
Schlow  Wildeck,  Switzerland. 


Author  and  Reference  for  Verses 
Wanted  (9"»  S.  vi.  469).— The  lines  are  to 
be  found  in  the  collected  poems  of  the  author 
w  'Lalla  Rookh,'  in  a  poem  entitled  'A 
Dream  of  Hindostan.'  M. 

^ttgalore. 

Orientation  in  Interments  (9"»  S.  vi.  167, 
^%  336)l— There  are  four  modern  churches 


(Anglican)  within  a  mile  of  each  other  in 
London,  to  my  knowledge,  which  do  not  lie 
east  and  west:  St.  Michael's  Star  Street, 
Paddington  (north  and  south) ;  St.  Mark's, 
Marylebone  Road  (north  and  south) ;  St. 
James's,  Paddington  (altar  at  west  end) ;  and 
Christ  Church,  Lancaster  Gate  (north  and 
south).  Ibague. 

"Petering"  (9"'  S.  vii.  29).— It  seems  tome 
that  the  term  "petering  out"  was  originally  ap- 
plied to  the  exuding  of  crystals  of  lime  from 
new  or  damp  walls.  It  is  extended  in  Western 
America  to  the  giving  out  or  exhaustion  of 
various  things,  such  as  the  season,  one's 
courage,  a  vein  of  ore  in  a  mine,  (fee.         M. 

Mangalore. 

I  first  heard  this  expression  in  1891,  when 
the  house  surgeon  at  a  hospital  I  was  con- 
nected with  answered  an  inquiry  as  to  the 
condition  of  a  patient  in  whose  case  I  was 
personally  as  well  as  officially  interested  by 
saying,  **  I  am  terribly  afraid  she  will  peter 
out  before  morning."  The  phrase  struck  me 
so  much  that  I  made  a  note  of  it. 

E.  E.  Street. 

Chichester. 

To  "  peter  out,"  originally  a  miner's  phrase, 
is  from  petrus  (Lat.),  a  rock,  and  is  said  of  a 
mine  or  lode  when  the  bed-rock  is  reached, 
and  consequently  the  supply  has  ceased.  The 
American  equivalent  of  the  phrase  "to  be 
down  on  one's  luck "  is  "  to  be  down  on  the 
bed-rock,"  t.e.,  penniless,  so  that  "to  peter 
out"  means  to  diminish  gradually  and  then 
cease.  J.  Holden  MacMichael. 

Early  Lines  on  Cricket  (9**^  S.  vi.  506 ; 
vii.  72).— It  may  be  well  to  note  that  the 
Gentleman's    Magazine    for    October,    1756, 

&489,  contains  some  verses  entitled  *The 
ame  of  Cricket.'     John  Kersey's  *  General 
English  Dictionary,'  third  edition,  1721,  has 

"  Cricket a  sort  of  play  with  a  ball." 

Astarte. 


Portrait  of  Archbishop  LTssher  (9**»  S. 
V.  188).— I  am  anxious  to  see  the  catalogue 
of  the  sale  mentioned  by  S.  A.,  and  I  should  be 
very  glad  if  your  correspondent  can  say  where 
it  may  be  consulted.  I  may  mention  that  the 
Bodleian  Library  possesses  a  portrait  of  the 
archbishop,  a  half-length,  which  was  ex- 
hibited at  South  Kensington,  1866,  No.  639. 
It  is  by  an  unknown  artist.  Another  was 
exhibited  at  the  s^me  place  by  the  Archbishop 
of  Armagh,  1868,  No.  670.  a  bust,  30  in.  by 
24  in.  A  portrait  of  him  by  Lelywas  engraved 
by  Miller.  W.  Roberts. 

47,  Lansdowne  Gardens,  S.W, 


196 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9«»8.vil  march  9,1901. 


The  Blessing  of  the  Throats  (9"*  S.  v. 
169, 273 ;  vi.  197).— The  following  from  a  letter 
ifi  the  Tablet  of  2  February,  entitled  *The 
Blessing  of  St.  Blaise,'  would  seem  to  show 
that  some  form  for  blessing  the  throat  on 
that  particular  saint's  day  (3  February)  is  of 
more  or  less  ancient  origin  : — 

**  The  old  custom  of  blessing  water  on  the  Feast 
of  St.  Blaise  is  still  annually  performed  on  Feb- 
ruary 3rd  at  St.  Mary's  Abbey,  East  Bergholt 
(Colchester).  This  custom  is  now  over  two  hundred 
years  old,  and  the  rite  now  used  is  that  given  in  the 
Bollandists,  the  relic  of  the  saint  being  dipped  into 
the  water.  The  water  thus  blessed  is  distributed 
and  taken  for  the  cure  of  sore  throats,  or  as  a  pre- 
^rvation  from  all  diseases  connected  with  the 
throat,"  &c. 

The  writer  goes  on  to  say  that  this  is  a 
more  convenient  form  than  that  of  giving 
the  blevssing  with  cross  candles,  as  is  the  cus- 
tom at  one  or  more  London  churches.  Another 
custom,  prevalent  still  in  some  parts  of  Eng- 
land, is  that  of  administering  a  little  of  the 
wine  left  in  the  cruet  after  mass  to  children 
8u£fering  from  whooping  cough,  a  disused 
chalice  oeing  employed  for  the  purpose.  It 
would  be  interesting  to  know  whether  this 
was  a  pre-Reformation  custom. 

Frederick  T.  Hibgame. 

Friar's  Crag,  Derwentwater  (9^  S.  vii. 
129).— "Ooppy-stool'*  has  little  or  nothing  to 
do  with  the  cferivation  of  the  name.    "  Cop," 
of  course,  means  a  hill,  peak,  or  crest ;  and 
"coppy  "  has  the  meaning  of  coppice  in  Cum- 
berland.   Most  likely  this  is  tne  derivation 
wanted  :    but  when  did    the    name  Square 
Coppy  End  first  arise,  and  was  there  a  square 
coppice  near  the  crag  at  the  time  ?    The  use 
of     end  "  may  be  found  in  Kerridge  End  in 
Cheshire,  and  perhaps  too  in  Endon,  in  more 
than  one  county.  With  the  former  the  follow- 
ing   interesting    epitaph,  dated    1750,  from 
Prestbury  Churchyard  is  associated  : — 
Beneath  this  stone  lies  Edward  Green, 
Who  for  cutting  stone  famous  was  seen. 
But  he  was  sent  to  apprehend 
One  Joseph  Clark,  ot  Kerridee  End, 
For  stealing  deer  of  Esquire  Downes, 
Where  he  was  shot  and  died  o'  th*  wounds. 
Arthur  Mayall. 

"  Coppy  "  is  simply  coppice. 

Alfred  T.  Curwen. 
Harrington  Rectory,  Cumberland. 

Country  labourers,  at  least  in  Worcester- 
shire, commonly  speak  of  a  coppice  as  a 
"coppy";  they  have  an  idea  that  coppice 
(coppies)  means  two  or  more  such. 

W.  C.  B. 

^Broken  on  the  Wheel  (9^*»  S.  vi.  251,  314, 
373j  455,  513;    viL  135), — As  the  inntances 


of  breaking  on  the  wheel  recently  quoted 
are  taken  from  the  last  century,  I  give, 
from  memory  merely,  one  that  took  place  in 
one  of  the  Austrian  Slav  provinces  about 
thirty  years  back.  The  punishment  had  not 
been  inflicted  for  a  goo<i  many  years  in  the 
province,  owing  to  popular  prejudice,  but  in 
this  case  seems  to  have  been  generally 
approved.  Two  discharged  soldiers,  one  of 
whom  was  named  Alexiry,  had  outraged  and 
murdered  a  family  of  young  girls  living  in 
a  secluded  farmhouse.  Alexiry  was  the  tirst 
to  bo  executed,  his  right  shoulder  being  first 
broken  with  a  small  mace,  and  the  other 
joints  crushed  in  succession,  the  culprit  being 
finally  dispatched  by  blows  upon  the  abdo- 
men. Ue  showed  courage,  and  seems  to 
have  rapidly  become  insensible.  His  com- 
panion, a  Jew,  had  to  witness  this  scene 
before  his  own  turn  cama  and,  probably 
because  of  his  unpopularity,  his  tortures  were 
prolonged.  I  remember  being  impressed  at 
the  time  by  the  peculiarly  ghastly  account 
of  his  punishment,  but  have  forgotten  his 
name.  The  report  was  in  more  than  one 
English  newspaper  somewhere  about  1870, 
but  I  made  no  note.  J.  A  Goodchild. 

Bordighera. 

The  Universal  Spectator'  of  19  February, 
1810,  is  responsible  for  the  following  : — 

**  A  man  and  his  wife,  convicted  of  having  falsely 
accused  a  Jew  family  of  assassination,  were  on  the 
25th  of  last  month  broken  on  the  wheel  at  Aix-la- 
Chapelle." 

J.  N.  Brushfield,  M.D. 

Eton  College  and  Ram  Hunting  (9"»  S. 
vi.  230,  374  ;  vii.  95).— The  Sportsman's  Mtuja- 
zine  ;  or.  Chronicle  of  Games  and  Pastiriies, 
No.    16,    Auj2;ust,    1824    (which    commences 
vol.  iii.  of  the  periodical),  has  as  a  frontis- 
piece an  engraving,  *The  Ancient  Game  of 
Kam    Hunting,  as  practised    by  the    Eton 
Scholars.'     It  represents  a  number  of  the 
boys  armed  with  heavy  clubs,  pursuing  tlie 
unhappy  animal.    In  the  background  is  a 
view    or    the    college   and    river.     A    brief 
description  occupies  p.  1  of  the  text,  which 
is  principjally  from  the  Rev.  Mr.  Cole's  MSS. 
in  the  British  Museum.    The  substance  of  it 
is  that  the  custom  was  observed  at  election 
time,  about  the  beginning  of  August ;  that 
the  ram  was  hunted  '*'  from  the  coll^Ke  play- 
grounds, as  far  as  he  would  run."    The  ooys 
aimed    at    knocking    the    ram    down,   with 
bludgeons  bought  for  the    purpose,  and  it 
was  afterwards  "made   into  a  pasty,  and 
served  up  in  the    hall."     The    period    Mr. 
Cole  refers  to  was  about  the  middle  of  the 
eighteenth  century. 
\     5ll^,  ^Kwoc^*^  %\iL^)^ltion  that  the  Duke 


9M'aviLMABOH9,i9oi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES 


197 


of  Cumberland  was  alluded  to  in  the  N(yr- 
wich  Mercury  is  correct,  as  it  is  stated  in  the 
Sportsman*s  Magazine  that  "the  late  Duke 
of  Cumberland  was  present  at  one  of  these 
huntings,"  W.  T.  Spencer. 

'Essence  of  Malone'  (Q'-^  S.  vi.  488\— 
"  Another  Essence  of  M alone  ;  or,  the 
'Beauties'  of  Shakespear's  Editor.  Second 
Pirt.  By  Qeorge  Hardinge.  Lond.,  1801,  8vo, 
pp.  186.^  George  Hardinee  (1744-1816)  was 
the  son  of  Nicholas  Hardinge  ;  educated  at 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge ;  made  senior 
justice  of  the  counties  of  Brecon,  Glamor- 
gan, and  Radnor ;  and  in  1789  appointed 
Attorney-General  to  the  Queen.  His  life  is 
Kiven  in  his  miscellaneous  works,  published 
By  John  Nichols  in  1818. 

John  Radcliffe. 

"Jury"  in  Nautical  Terms  (9^»»  S.  v.  267, 
426).— In  *  Peregrine  Pickle,'  published  in  1751, 
the  grim  commander  Commodore  Trunnion 
addresses  his  lieutenant  Hatchway,  who  has 
a  wooden  leg,  as  a  **  jury-legged  dog."  In 
'The  Pirate,'  the  date  of  which  may  b^  1702, 
in  the  quarrel  on  board  the  pirate  schooner 
the  carpenter  observes  : — 

" '  Jack  Jenkins  was  not  a  chip  the  worse,'  said 
the  carpenter ;  *  I  took  the  lee  on  with  my  saw  as 
well  as  any  loblolly- boy  in  the  land  could  have  done 
—heated  my  broad  axe,  and  seared  the  stump— 
ay  by  — !  and  made  a  jury-leg  that  he  shambles 
about  with,  as  well  as  he  ever  did— for  Jack  could 
never  cut  a  feather.'  "—Chap,  xxxiv. 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 
Newbourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

"Man^anterie  "  (9"»  S.  vi.  169).— 

*' MandcarUerie,  s.f.  (du  lat.  mane^  matin;  can- 
'tt»^,  chanter).  Ecole  sp^ciale  qui  ^tait  attachi^e  aux 
Piroisses,  et  dans  laouelle  on  iustruisait  les  enfants 
de  chceur."— *  Grana  Dictionnaire,'  par  Napoleon 
Undais,  14«  ^it,  Paris.  1862.  In  the  *  Comple- 
ment' 

Robert  Pierpoint. 

The  Abbot  of  Westminster's  Plot  (9'**  S. 
viL  84).— It  is  curious  to  reflect,  on  a  review 
of  the  circumstances  connected  with  this 
lonuidable  conspiracy  against  Henry  IV.. 
that  the  same  sanguinary  practices  in  regara 
to  the  collection  and  thereafter  the  display 
01  "human  heads"— on  a  milder  scale,  it  is 
troe— were  being  carried  out  in  England 
^nder  the  first  king  of  the  house  of  Lan- 
cJteter,  in  1400  and  1401,  as  were  occurring 
at  the  same  time  in  Syria  under  Timour, 
^fiperor  of  the  East.  Thus  at  the  sack  ot 
^ppo,  11  November.  1400,  while  Timour 
Jjas  conversing  with  the  doctors  of  law  and 
the  cadhis  of  the  city,  the  streets  of  Aleppo 


emptory  command  to  his  soldiers  that  they 
were  to  produce  an  adequate  number  of 
heads,  which,  according  to  his  custom,  were 
curiously  piled  in  columns  and  pyramids. 
Again,  at  Bagdad  in  the  following  year, 
22  July,  1401,  he  erected  a  pyramid  of  ninety 
thousand  heads  on  the  ruins  of  the  city. 
It  is  of  Timour  that  Gibbon  observes  :— 

"  The  conquest  and  monarchy  of  the  world  was 
the  first  object  of  the  ambition  of  Timour.  To  live 
in  the  memory  and  esteem  of  future  a^es  was  the 
second  wish  of  his  magnanimous  spirit.  — *  Decline 
and  Fall,'  chap.  Ixv. 

The  comparison  was  then,  as  it  is  now, 
**  Better  fifty  years  of  Europe  than  a  cycle 
of  Cathay."  F.  E.  Manley. 

Lay  Canon  (9^^  S.  vii.  148).— A  minor  or 
petty  canon,  or  a  vicar  choral,  is  not  a 
layman,  but  a  lay  vicar,  or,  in  other  words,  a 
songraan,  is.  Mr.  Orby  Shipley  thus  defines 
lay  vicar  (*  Glossary  of  Ecclesiastical  Terms ') : 

**A  deputy,  in  a  cathedral,  of  a  canon  or  pre- 
bendary, to  perform  those  duties  which  a  layman 
may  do,  such  as  singing  in  the  choir.  They  were 
originally  in  minor  orders.  They  are  sometimes 
members  of  the  inferior  college  in  a  cathedral,  and 
sometimes  merely  part  of  the  foundation  at  large." 

Possibly  a  lay  canon  may  be  a  variety  of  the  ' 
lay  impropriator.  St.  Swithin. 

Installation  of  a  Midwife  {^^^  S.  v.  475 ; 
vi.  9,  177,274,336,438).— Would  Mb.  Peachey 
be  good  enough  to  inform  me  if  the  so-called 
chimerical  "Opinicus"  was  the  crest  of  the 
Barber-Surgeons,  and  the  only  one  known  ? 
"The  head  and  wings  of  an  eagle,  the  fore 
part  of  a  lion,  the  hind  part  of  an  ass,  and 
the  tail  of  a  camel."  Other  combinations  are 
given  by  various  persons.  The  meaning  is 
said  to  be  "  the  eagle  to  represent  swiftness, 
the  lion  courage,  the  ass  patience,  and  the 
camel  endurance."  Were  there  any  arms 
or  motto  attached  to  the  Barber-Surgeons  ; 
and  are  they  still  in  existence?  I  believe 
they  were  first  known  as  "  chirurgeons "  in 
the  style  of  the  period. 

Richard  Hemming. 
[The  Barber-Surgeons  still  possess  their  hall  in 
Monkwell  Street.] 

Old  Legend  (9"*  S.  vii.  107).— Oberon  gave 
to  Huon  of  Bordeaux  a  magic  horn,  which, 
sounded  gently,  had  the  power  of  making 
people  dance  involuntarily;  and  the  elf-king's 
tune  is  said  in  popular  tradition  to  have  that 
effect.  When  the  horn  was  sounded  loudly, 
it  brought  Oberon,  though  he  were  a  thou- 
sand miles  away,  to  the  assistance  of  Huon. 
See  Wieland's  *  Oberon,'  canto  ii.  stanzas  49, 
50.      Oberon    waa   ai\^t>N».Td%  wcv^x^    V\\X\ 


'^^^eamed  with  blood  through  Timour  a  per- 1  Huon,  but  did  not  ^ViatvAow  \vvtCL  ^Tv\i\\^^ 


198 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9»»  s.  vn.  march  9.  iwi. 


and  I  think  that  the  cause  of  his  anger  was 
different  from  that  mentioned  in  the  query. 
Hut  the  story  of  Huon  of  Bordeaux  is  both 
old  and  French,  and  strongly  resembles  in 
some  respects  the  legend  inquired  for. 

E.  Yardley. 

".J'ai  vecu"  (9'*'  S.  vii.  105).— The  tempta- 
tion to  improve  the  sayings  of  famous  men  is 
only  natural,  and  no  one  has  suffered  more 
from  such  supposititious  interpretation  than 
the  great  Puritan  abbe  of  tne  Revolution, 
and  without  reason.  Of  all  the  men  of  the 
time,  he  was  the  most  clear-headed,  simplest, 
and  most  unaffected.  No  one  better  than  he 
knew  his  own  mind  and  the  significance  of 
his  words ;  and  to  ^raft  an  inner  meaning 
on  his  moU  is  entirely  to  misunderstand 
Sieyes.  Scores  and  scoi-es  of  deputies  who 
voted  for  the  king's  death  might  have  been 
credited,  just  as  truly  and  just  as  falsely, 
with  the  La  mort  sans  phrase"  tradition- 
ally ascribed  to  the  abb^. 

So  with  *M'ai  v^cu,"  of  which  literal 
translation  is  the  best — even  "I  existed  "is 
too  rhetorical.  Mignet,  in  his  'Notices 
Historiques'  (vol.  i.  p.  81),  says,  "Lorsqu'un 
de  ses  amis  lui  demanda  plus  tard  ce  qu'il 
avait  fait  pendant  la  Terreur,  *Ce  que  j*ai 
fait/  lui  r^pondait  M.  Sieyes,  *  j*ai  vecu.*" 

Happily,  in  this  instance,  we  are  not  left 
in  doubt,  since  Sieyes  lived  to  repudiate  the 
invidious  meaning  attached  to  the  words 
(see  Sainte-Beuve's  art.  in  L),  It  is  their 
entire  directness  and  improvisation  that,  for 
one  reason,  gives  value  to  his  historical 
sayings.  Philip  North. 

Serjeant  Bettes worth  (9^  S.  vii.  127).— 
His  Christian  name  was  Richard.  He  sat  in 
the  Irish  Parliament  from  1721  to  1727  as 
member  for  the  borough  of  Thomastown  in 
the  county  Kilkenny,  and  from  1727  until 
his  death  as  member  for  the  borough  of 
Middleton  in  the  county  Cork.  In  1732  he 
was  appointed  third  serjeant-at-law  in  Ire- 
land, and  in  1738  became  second  serjeant. 
He  died  on  31  March,  1741.  The  University 
of  Dublin  conferred  on  him  in  1725  the  degree 
of  LL.D.  horuyins  causd.  Further  information 
as  to  Bettesworth  will  be  found  in  the 
Journal  of  the  Cork  Historical  and  Archaeo- 
logical Society  for  1895,  p.  117,  and  for  1897, 
p.  265.  F.  Elrington  Ball. 

Sir  John  Borlase  Warren,  Bart.  (9'**  S. 
vi.  490;  vii.  15,  92).  —  In  *The  Georgian 
Era,'  vol.  ii.  p.  210  (1833),  it  is  stated  that 
this  distinguished  admiral  was  educated 
at   yVinchester.      Mr.    Mackenzie    Walcott, 


p.  443  (1852X  states  that  he  was  a  commoner, 
giving  his  date  as  1772,  and  adding  that  *'he 
removed  from  Mr.  Princep*s  school  at  Bicester 
to  Winton."  In  confirmation  of  this  I  find 
the  name  of  Warren  upon  the  Winchester 
Long  Rolls  for  1768-72 ;  but  these  dates  and 
statements  are  in  conflict  with  the  statement 
of  the  writer  in  the  *D.N.B.'  that  Warren 
entered  at  Emmanuel  College,  Cambridge, 
23  September,  1767.    Which  is  correct? 

C.  W.  H. 

"  Attcr.  Acad."  (9^*^  S.  vii.  68).— I  send  this, 
as  it  may  interest  and  be  of  use  to  readers  of 
*N.  &Q.' 

Attur.  Acad.,  an  authority  given  in  Minsheu, 
1627,  under  'Interlopers  in  trade,'  refers  to 
*  The  Atturneyes  Academie.'  See  under  Ex- 
chequer No.  4687.  *  The  Attorney's  Academy,' 
Lond.,  1547,  8vo,  was  by  Thomas  Powell  or 
Powel,  printer,  who  dwelt  in  Berthlet's  house 
Fleet  Street.    It  is  said  he  removed  to 


Dublin. 


John  Radcliffe. 


Authors  of  Quotations  Wanted  (9'**  S. 
vii.  90).— 

Cold  water  is  the  best  of  drioks. 
See  8***  S.  xii.  332,  where  two  versions  of  these  lines 
are  given,  but  no  author's  name.  W.  C.  B. 

(9*»»  S.  vii.  110.) 
And  snatching,  as  they  [the  years]  go,  whole  frag- 
ments of  our  being. 
This  seems  to  me  an  attempt  at  recalling  Pofie'a. 
lines  :— 

Years,  following  vears,  steal  something  every  day^ 
At  last  they  steal  us  from  ourselves  away. 
Pope  was  imitating  Horace  :— 

Singula  de  nobis  anni  prsedantur  euntes. 

Book  ii.  Epistle  ii.  line  5(i. 
E.  Yardi^y. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  &c. 

Superstitions  of  the  Highlands  and  Islo/mU  of  Si 
land.  By  John  Gregorson  Campbell,  Minister 
Tiree.  (Glasgow,  Maclehose.) 
Students  of  the  superstitions  of  the  Scottish  Hi^^ 
lands  know  how  much  information  on  the  subj^^ 
is  due  to  that  indefatigable  worker  the  late  R^*^ 
John  Gregorson  Campbell.  The  present  collect"^ 
was  made  during  thirty  years,  from  1861  to  1^2 
and  much  of  the  matter  was  in  hand  when  ^^ 
J.  F.  Campbell  of  Islav  published  his  *  Popi^^ 
Tales  of  the  West  Hignlands.'  It  now  sees 
light  for  the  first  time,  and  is  to  be  succeeded  tr^, 
second  volume  on  *  Witchcraft  and  Second  S::^^ 
in  the  West  Highlands,'  if,  which  is  scarcely  t«iO  i 
doubted,  the  reception  of  the  present  volaim^  i 
such  as  to  encourage  the  publication.  The  cont^^M?^ 
ftx^i  dwvved  wholly  from  oral  sources,  no  t^nut 


inrtV-  %    iir  .  ''"*^'    ifitti;Keii/.iw     ^fir  a.iv:uvs  Wt^  dwvved  wholly  from   oral  sources,  no  m^nui 

Wiwam  of   Wykemm    and   his   (JoUogea,'\\v\iiw\/iiN^t\v^\\\v^\»^xi.x^v»»^'^^ 


9»s.vilmabch9.i90i.)     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


199 


dealinR  with  the  subject,  and  written  correspond- 
enoehavixig   also,    after   due   deliberation,    been 
omitted.     £ong   a   resident  in  Tiree,  a   frequent 
traveller  in  the  north-western  and  central  High- 
lands, and  possessor  of  a  full  knowledge  of  the 
spoken  language  of  the  people,  Mr.  Campbell  has 
escaped  most  of  the  dimculties  by  which  his  pre- 
decessors were  beset.    A  principal  cause  of  error 
on  the   part  of   previous  writers  has  been.  Mr. 
Campbell  holds,  ignoraoce  of  Gaelic  and  Highland 
feelings  and  modes  of  thought,  together  with  a 
bal>it  of   thinking  in  English,  and  a  consequent 
inability   to    **  eliminate    from    their   statements 
thoughts  derived  from  English  or  classical  litera- 
ture, or  to  keep  from  confusing  with  Celtic  beliefs 
ideas  derived  from  foreign  sources  and  from  ana- 
l(»ous  creeds  existing  elsewhere."    Another  matter 
of  equal  importance,  on  which  he  does  not  dwell, 
IB  the  fact  that  his  profession  and  his  intimacy 
with  the  Highlanders  enabled  him  to  conquer  the 
reticence  of  the  Celt  in  talking  concerning  night 
visions  and  fears.    Most  of  the  beliefs  mentioned 
are  familiar  to  the  folk-lorist,  and  are  illustrated 
in  works  dealing  with  Irish,  Welsh,  and  Manx 
Buperstitions.    special  advantage  attends,  how- 
ever,  the  authoritative  form   they  assume  here. 
Aa  a  rule,  belief  in  the  fairies  as  still  existing, 
with  which  the  volume  opens,  is  passed.'    Peasants 
hclieve.  as  Chaucer  believed  five  hundred  jears 
ago,  tnat    fairies,    though    once    they    existed, 
have  now  disappeared.     A  few  people,  however, 
"till  think    it  worth  while    to   take  precautions 
against  them.    Fairies   seem  more  mistrusted  in 
^tland   than    in    Ireland.    Lasting   good   never 
comes  of  their  interference,  and  we  seldom  hear 
of  a  pesisant    becoming   enriched,    though    such 
g|>es  are  known,  by  the  capture  of  an  elnn  bride. 
The  word  gith  (pronounced  «Ae6>=peace,  is  that 
"Om  which,  on  account  of  the  noiselessness  of  their 
°K)Tenient8.  the  names  given  to  fairies  are  generally 
aerived.     In  size  the  fairies  extend  from  beine^s 
that  can  crawl  through  a  keyhole  to  others  capable 
of  forming  nuptial  alliances  with  mankind.     With 
'^rd  to  their  stealing  of  women  and  children,  the 
'Deans  of  detecting  fairy  changelings  by  means  of 
^pty  egg-shells,   &c.,  the  beliefs  are    the   same 
^soem  generally  prevalent  in  other  countries. 
fairies  have   often   some   deformity,  a   frequent 
blemish  in  the  fair  sex  being  the  existence  of  but 
^  nostril.    A  very  interesting  series  of  stories 
has  heen  collected,  and  the  volume  exercises  much 
^ucination    over  the   reader.     On   subjects   such 
^divination,  spells,  the  devil,  &c.,  much  interest- 
^  information    is    given.      While   scientifically 
^rou^h  in  treatment,  the  book  is  indeed  admir- 
^ly  suited  for  general  perusal. 

Verdi,  whose  recent  decease  has  removed  one 

^  the  most    notable    figures   in  Italy,   occupies 

*  prominent   place   in    the   March   reviews   and 

"iiSKaziQes.    The  estimate,  naturally,  varies  little, 

*^  most  writers  draw  attention  to  the  separate 

J^ters  of  his   name,  which   in   the   worst  days 

^  Italy   made    that   name   a  war   cry.     In   the 

f^nigkUy    Mr.    Cuthbert    Hadden    pronounces 

*al8taff,*   when    the    age    of    the    composer   is 

^Ken  into  account,  almost  miraculous.    Another 

JSW:t,  taboo  to  us,  but  generally  discussed,  is 

ti?*  ttvil  list  and  the  Hereditary  Revenues  of 

^.  Crown.*    liei>arting  far  from  the  subjects  he 

^^l^iQahbr  selecU,  M.  Maurice  Maeterlinck,  in  his 

^  (U  HivV  gives  lu  a  Btrikii^  and  it  nuky  aimo0t 


i 


be  said  dramatic  account  of  the  proceedings  of  the 
queen  bee  in  her  destruction  of  her  rivals.    This 
forms  the  fourth  chapter  of  a  forthcoming  book 
on  *  The  Life  of  the  Bee.*     We  may  indeed  learn 
'*some  lessons  of  wisdom,"  as  Isaac  Watts  would 
call    them,  from    the    study    of    this    monarchy 
of  bees — lessons  instructive  and   edifying,  if  not 
wholly  consoling.     Mr.  Stephen  Gwynn  supplies 
*  A  Specimen  of  Mediseval  Irish  Poetry,'  and  Miss 
Helen  Zimmern  gives  a  picture  of  *  Victor  Em- 
manuel III..  King  of  Italy.'    As  a  rule,  the  best 
portion  of  the  contents  consists  of  the  articles  on 
the  late  Queen,  the  relations  between  England  and 
Ireland.  South  African  politics,  and  the  defenceless 
state  of  Britain.     With  these  matters  we  cannot 
possibly  deal  beyond  commending  the  essays  to  the 
attention  and  study  of  our  readers.— In  the  Nine- 
teenth  Century  Mr.  Edvard  Grieg  contributes  the 
article  on  Verdi,  whom  he  places,  as  most  would,  in 
front  of  Bellini  and  Donizetti,  and  also  of  Rossini. 
He  goes  so  far,   indeed,  as  to  class  him  on  the 
whole  side  by  side  with  Wagner  as  **  the  greatest 
dramatist  of  the  century."    Warm  eulo^  is  be- 
stowed, but  in  the  *  Falstaflf '  traces  of  the  influence 
of  age  are  discovered.    Mrs.  Marj^aret  L.  Woods 
gives  a  readable  account  of  that  interesting  per- 
sonage Maria  Holroyd,  best  known,  we  may  sup- 
pose, in  connexion  with  Gibbon.    Mr.  Henry  Arthur 
Jones  writes  on  *The  Drama  in  the  English  Pro- 
vinces,' against  which  we  have  nothing  to  urge 
except  that  *'the  provinces"  is  only  a  slang  term 
employed  by  that  which,  by  the  use  of  another 
slang  term  of  its  own  invention,  is  called   **the 
profession."      York,    Lincoln,    Nottingham,    and 
Chester  are  no  more  provinces  than  London  is  a 
metropolis  to  them,  even  if  it  may  be  such  to  Mel- 
bourne or  Brisbane.     An  earnest  playgoer  thirty 
yeafs  ago,  Mr.  Jones  noted  the  decline  oi  the  stock 
company,  with  its  leading  men,  leading  juveniles, 
leading  ladies,  and  so  forth.     He  has  much  to  say 
concerning   the  changes    that   have  subsequently 
arrived.     His  chief  complaint  is  that  throughout 
England  **  the  art  of  the  drama  only  exists  as  the 
parasite  and  hanger-on  of  popular  amusement," 
and  that  we  have,  in  fact,  no  distinct  drama  at  all. 
Mr.  Philip  Alexander  Bruce  gives  *  Some  American 
Impressions  of  Europe,'  by  which  we  should  do  well 
to  profit.— The  Pcul  Mcul  practically  opens  with 
what   is   called    *A   Character   Study'   of    Pope 
Leo  XIII.,  by  the  Vicomte  E.  M.  de  Vogii6,  of  the 
Academic  !Fran9aise.    The  estimate  of  the  Pope  is, 
naturally,  high.    M.  de  Vogiid  regards  him.  indeed, 
as  the  first  man  in  Europe   since  the  death   of 
William  I.  of  Germany.    The  illustrations,  repre- 
senting the  surroundings  of  the  Pope  and  proceed- 
ings, domestic   or  official,   in   the   Vatican,  have 
abundant  interest.     *Mens  Dress'  is  an  amusing 
article,  but  will  not  appeal  very  directly  to  the 
majority  of  our  readers.    A  description  of  *  Castle 
Howard,'  the  seat  of  the  Earl  of  Carlisle  and  the 
great  pride  of  the  East  Riding,  is  by  Lord  Ronald 
Sutheriand  Gower.    It  will  be  read  with  interest, 
at  least  by  Yorkshiremen,  and  is  admirably  illus- 
trated.     There   are    reproductions   of   some   fine 
Sicturcs,  among  which  we  fail  to  trace  *  The  Three 
laries ' ;  perhaps  it  is  no  longer  at  Castle  Howard. 
An  interview  withPaul  Kruger  reproduces  ])ortrait8 
and  autograph  of  the  ex-president.     It  hajs  already 
attracted  much  attention,  but  is  outside  our  limits, 
as  is  the  *  English  and  French  iu  Ab^waViiYo.*  <A  W\. 
Herbert  Vivian.   Sir  B«\>©t\,  ^o\\  dea\»  \.x^wOMi.\\\.Vj 
with  the  notion  ol  BignaWra^  \jO  '^wc^    ^Sx  ^«£^awx. 


200 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9- s.  vn.  mabch  a,  iwi. 


Maxwell  is  responsible  for  *  Victoria  the  Well 
Beloved.*  A  beautiful  picture  by  Gainsborough  of 
Mrs.  Robinson  (Perdita)  is  reproduced.— 5^mwic/« 
opens  with  *  Alone  the  East  Coast  of  Africa,'  by 
Mr.  Richard  Harding  Davis.  This  describes  the 
result  of  a  steam  trip  from  Durban  up  to  Zanzibar, 
ports  at  which  bubonic  plague  existed  being  left 
unvisited.  Not  too  much  a  friend  of  England  is 
Mr.  Davis  counted.  What  he  says  about  the 
relative  prosperity  of  countries  under  English, 
German,  and  Portuguese  rule  is  pleasant  reading 
for  us.  Portuguese  rule  is  depicted  in  grim  colours. 
Zanzibar  is  aescribed  as  a  terrestnal  paradise. 
*  Among  the  Immigrants'  gives  a  good  account  by  pen 
and  pencil  of  the  Russian  and  Polish  popuktion  that 
flocks  to  America.  Mr.  Henry  Norman  contributes 
a  fifth  paper  on  *  Russia  of  To-day.'  Mrs.  Gilbert's 
stage  reminiscences  are  agreeably  continued.  *  The 
Transformation  of  the  Map '  shows  the  changes  in 
maps  which  have  been  witnessed  in  the  course  of  a 
single  lifetime.  Mr.  Brander  Matthews  has  a  thought- 
ful paper  on  the  *  English  Language  in  America.' — 
The  Comhill  opens  with  a  very  interesting  his- 
torical pajver  by  Mr.  C.  H.  Firth  on  *  The  Sick  and 
Wounded  in  the  Great  Civil  War,'  a  new  subject, 
on  which  a  great  scholar  supnlies  some  valuable 
information.  Under  the  title  My  Mother's  Diary ' 
Mrs.  Mary  Westenholz  ^ves  what  professes  to  be  an 
account  of  experiences  during  the  Prussian  invasion 
of  Schleswig-Holstein.  Theseare  obviously  fictitious, 
but  are  deeply  moving.  The  Rev.  W.  H.  Fitchett 
sends  another  brilliant  picture  of  incidents  con- 
nected with  the  Indian  Mutiny.  A  very  encourag- 
ing account  is  supplied  by  Mr.  C.  J.  Coniish  of 
'The  Results  of  Wild  Bird  Protection.'  We  had 
no  idea  that  so  much  ^in  had  attended  an  Act  as 
yet  inadequately  administered.  Mr.  G.  S.  Street 
does  full  justice  to  Anthony  TroUope,  a  delightful 
novelist  at  present  under  a  cloud.  Trollope  is 
defended  from  the  charge  brought  against  him  by 
an  eminent  pundit  that  he  is  not  creative.  'A 
Londoner's  Log-Book,'  No.  II.,  is  a  clever  piece  of 
social  satire.  *The  Christian  Scientist'  is  also 
brieht  and  humorous.— The  Gentleman^ a  has  a  good 
ana  readable  article  on  *  The  Cat  and  the  Moon,' 
which  we  commend  to  our  readers.  Its  author,  the 
Rev.  George  St.  Clair,  should  not,  however,  mis- 
quote Ben  Jonson.  Miss  Georgiana  Hill  has  an 
excellent  paper  on  Gondoraar,  the  Spanish  Am- 
bassador to  James  I.,  to  whose  malign  influence 
England  owes  what  may  almost  be  regarded  as  her 
crowning  humiliation,  the  royal  murder,  at  the 
bidding  of  Spain,  of  Raleigh.— The  lighter  contents 
of  Lof^fmans  are  delightful,  e8j)ecially  *  Concerning 
Tod  and  Peter.*  Miss  Dempster  contributes  *  The 
First  of  the  Hundred  Days.^  *  Bacteria  and  Salt' 
is  scientific  and  sufficiently  startling.  Mr.  Lang 
is  amusing  in  *  At  the  Sign  of  the  Snip,'  and  also, 
as  he  sometimes  is,  a  trine  severe,  though  in  good- 
natured  fashion.  His  note  on  the  coquUle — 
In  Vienna's  fatal  walls 
God's  finger  touched  him  and  he  dipped— 
is  excellent. 

Mr.  E.  S.  DoDdsoN  has  printed  a  short  and 
satisfactory  reply  to  the  criticism  on  his  LeiijUir- 
ragan  studios  of  Dr.  Schuchardt.  There  is  much 
philological  interest  in  this,  but  the  matter  is  too 
|)ersonai  to  appear  in  our  columns.  It  is  included 
in  a  pamphlet  with  his  *  The  Verb  in  the  Second 
Book  in  uuipuskoan  Bask,'  a  subject  on  which 
Mr,  DodgBon  is  a  high  authority. 


With  much  regret  we  hear  of  the  death  of  Mr. 
Frederick  S.  Ellis,  an  old  friend  and  a  warm  sup- 
porter of  *  N.  &  Q.,'  whom  we  saw  but  a  few  w^eeks 
ago  in  his  customary  health.  A  brother  of  Sir 
Whittaker  Ellis,  he  was  closely  connected  with 
Richmond.  In  early  life  he  was  with  Thomas 
Rodd,  the  bookseller,  whom  he  succeeded.  His 
business,  once  conducted  in  King  Street,  W.C., 
close  to  the  old  Garrick  Club,  was  removed  to 
Bond  Street,  where,  under  the  name  Ellis  & 
White,  it  is  carried  on  by  his  nephew  and  late 
I)artner.  Many  years  ago  he  retired  and  settled 
at  Torquay  until  his  death,  which  took  place  at 
Sidmouth.  A  ^reat  friend  of  Dante  Rossetti,  whose 
poems  he  published,  and  of  William  Morris,  he  was 
well  known  and  highly  prized  in  literary  and  artistic 
circles.  In  the  publications  of  the  Kelmscott  Press 
he  took  an  active  share,  editing  for  it  the  Chaucer— 
perhaps  its  noblest  production— the  Shelley,  the 
Keats,  and  many  of  its  most  prized  works.  Ellis 
translated  *  Reynard  the  Fox,^  the  *  Roman  de  la 
Rose,'  and  'The  Golden  Legend.'  and  wsa,  up  to 
his  death,  engaged  in  preparing  English  versions  of 
mediaeval  works.  He  also  compiled  an  elalx>rate 
*  Shelley  Concordance.'  He  was  the  possessor  of 
paintings  bv  Rossetti  and  E.  Bume-Jones,  and  at 
his  home,  tne  Red  House,  Chilston,  Torquay,  he 
had  a  few  priceless  books.  In  jpublishing  Kossetti's 
works  he  was  influenced  by  friendship  rather  than 
the  hope  of  profit.     Few  men  were  indeed  of  a 

g sutler  or  more  unselfish  disposition,  and  his  death 
as  left  a  void  not  easily  filled. 


We  must  ccUl  specicU  cUterUion  to  the  foUowinQ 
notices  ;— 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  name 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub- 
lication, but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Wb  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately. 

To  secure  insertion  of  communications  corre- 
spondents must  observe  the  following  rules.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answov 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previou 
entries  in  tlie  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exset 
heading,  the  series,  volume,  and  i)age  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  re))eat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  com- 
munication **  Duplicate." 

Ivan  Morris  ("  Sibyl  or  JSybil ").— Sibyl  is  right. 
The  other,  though  frequently  employed' since  the 
appearance  of  the  novel  so  called,  u  incorrect. 

Errata.— P.  142.  col.  1,  1.  27,  for  *  Dictionary  of 
Greek  Antiquities  read  Chreek  atul  Roman  Anti- 
quities; p.  155,  coL  1,  L  23,  for  "of  little"  read 
oh  little, 

NOTICE. 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addressed  to 
"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries '  "—Advertise- 
ments and  Business  Letters  to  "The  Publisher "~ 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  K.C. 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  return 
communications  which,  for  any  reason,  we  do  not 
print ;  and  to  this  rule  we  oan  make  no  exoeptioiL 


vilmabch9,i9oi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN   LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTjS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


A  THKSJRVM  for  March  S  eontaini  Artida  on 
T8  on  CELTIC  FOLK-LOKB. 
<DIKR  AUTOBIOOaAPHIBS. 
RITANT8  of  the  PHILIPPINES. 

;b'b  nbw  rook. 

WING  of  GOOD. 

ELS  :-The  tacrad  Fount ;  The  BeUeTinjr  Bishop ;  The  Man 
»rgot ;  The  Tray edf  of  a  Pedigree. 

:ax.  romances, 
l  litbkature. 

lAKY  TAHLB-U8T  of  MEW  BOOKS. 

BLLI8;    CAViL;    The  SPUING  PUBLISHING  SEASON; 

•HENRY  BARROW.  SEPARATIST.' 
Albo— 
Y  GOSSIP. 

^— Georire  FrnncU  Fitzgerald ;  Phjalc*  and  Mathematles; 
»pologlcal  Notes ;  Astronumical  Notes ;  Societies ;  Meetings 
feeh ;  Gossip. 

TS:-New  Pablications -,  The  Burlington  Fine-Aru  Club; 
Gossip. 

The  yttmk  ;  Gossip ,  Performances  Next  Week. 
-The  WeelL ;  Gossip. 


THENAiUhi  for  February  16  eontaini  Articles  on 
nrrsBURYii  history  of  criticism. 

and  TOPOGRAPHY  of  BAGHDAD. 
AL  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 
CB. 

i  In  1800. 

OL  MS8.  on  MOUNT  ATHOS. 

rSLS :— In  the  Name  of  a  Woman ;  The  Pride  of  Baoe  ^The 
of  the  Ancient  Wood  -,  Rachel  Penrose,  Christian ;  A  Way- 

eed  i  A  Wheel  of  Fire ;  Marked  with  a  Cipher. 

ISTORY. 

L  LITEIiATURE. 

KAFHY. 

RARY  TABLE -LIST  OF  NEW  BOOKS. 

ZEOWARD     HALL;      ACCESSION      and     CORONATION; 

"CHARLES"  Of  HORACE  WALPOLB'S  "TRIUM- 
TE" :  UNIVERSITY  EXTENSION  ;  HUMAN  SACRIFICE  ; 
AN0NI8T  HUOUTiO  ;  The  MILTON  BIBLE. 

Aug — 
lY  GOSSIP. 

::-Beceat  Pnblcations;  Societies;  Meetings  Next  Week 
P- 

1X8 :— niustrmted  Books;  The  New  Gallery ;  Sales;  Gossip. 
-The  Week  ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
.-Ooeslp. 


The  A  THUKjfiUMfor  February  25  oontatiM  ArticUa  on 

A  LITERARY  HISTORY  of  AMERICA. 

THE  GERMAN  PEOPLE  and  the  REFORMATION. 

The  NEW  EDITION  of  the  GOLDEN  BOUGH. 

CICERO  in  ENGLISH. 

NEW  NOVELS  :-The  Sun  Maid ;  The  Bishop's  Gambit ;  The  After- 
taste ;  Le  Frlquet ;  ue  Fanidme ;  La  Cadette. 

CANADA  and  the  UNITED  STATES. 

ANTHOLOGIES. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

DR.  SCARTAZZINI;    The   MS.   'BOOK   of   CUPAR';   The  SPRING 

PUBLISHING    SEASON;     HUCHOWN ;     MONKS    and     THEIR 

CATALOGUES;  The  KELMSCOTT  PRESS. 

Atso— 
LITERART  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE :— Aatronomioal  Books ;  Societies ;  Meetings  Next  Week. 

FINE  ARTS :— Society  of  Painters  in  Water  Colours ;  Sales ;  Gossip. 

MUSIC :— The  Week ;  Gossip  ;  Performanoes  Next  Week. 

DRAMA  :-The  Week ;  Gossip. 


The  A  THKNjEUMfoT  February  9  contains  Articles  on 

The  SUCCESSORS  of  DRAKE. 

A  NEW  STUDY  of  KNOX. 

The  NEW  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY. 

JOURNALISM  DURING  the  FRENCH  REVOLUTION. 

HENRY  BARROW,  SEPARATIST. 

BARBOUR,  the  WALLACE,  and  the  BRUCE. 

SHORT  STORIES. 

ITALIAN  TOWNS. 

FRENCH  CLASSICS  and  TRANSLATIONS. 

EGYPlX)iX)GICAL  ^OKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE— LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

MR.  J.  C.  JBAFFRE80N;  The  DOVES  at  FROGMORE;  The  ETY- 
MOLOGICAL PEDIGREE  of  HUCHOWN;  "NEW  NOVELS '*} 
The  MILl'ON  BIBLE;  SALE. 

Alio— 

LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE :  -Chemical  Books ;  Societies ;  Meetings  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 

FINE  ARTS :— The  Painters  of  Florence;  Monographs od  Artlsu  ;  the 
Royal  Academy  ;  A  Century  of  Water  Colours;  Notes  from  Rome ; 
Gossip. 

MUSIC:— New  Music;  Date  of  Chopin's  Birth;  Chopin  at  StafTord 
House ;  Gossip ;  Performanoes  Next  Week. 

DRAMA :— Three  Plays  for  Puritans ;  The  Week ;  Gossip. 


The  ATHENJEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    C.     FRANCIS,    Athenaeum    Office,    Bream's  fiaildings.    Chancery  Lane,    B.C, 

And  of  all  NewaageDts. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9^  s.  vil  march  «.  i 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBPARTMBNT 


THK  FOLLOWING 


MAGAZINBS  AND 
BBVIBWS. 


WITHDRAWN  FROM 
OIBOULATION. 


LIBRARY  COPIES 

POSTAGE  FREE   to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices   annex 


Until  further  notice  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


Argosy    ...        

Blaokwpods      

Century 

Contemporary  BeWew 

Oomhiir. 

Bnglish  Illustrated   ... 
Fortnightly  Review  , 
Hari    ' 


tnigbtl: 
pers ... 


«.  d. 

7    6 

Longman's 

13    0 

Macmillan's      

10    « 

National  Review 

16    0 

Nineteenth  Century  ... 

7    tf 

Pall  Mall           

6    0 

Revue  des  Deux  Mondee 

16    0 

Scribner's          

9    0 

Temple  Bar      

Bdinburgh 


QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
7    6 1  Quarterly  


The  terms  will  be  it,  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Sabscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Booksta 
have  the  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribe 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAT  COMMENCE  AT  ANT  DATE. 


A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.       H.       SMITH       &       S0^ 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  Railway  Jiookstallt,  to  which  places  they  will  be  forwarded  oa/rriage  free, 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  Pubujhed 

CBNTURY  MAGAZINE.  The.    VoU.  17,  20.  and  a*i      

ATALANTA  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  6     

LONDON  SOCIETY.    2  vols,  for  1891         

3  vols,  (or  1893         

CASSBLL'S  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1898,  to  May,  1899.    Illustrated ... 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       

CUAMBBRS'S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURB,  SCIBNCB.  and  ARTS. 

Vol.  for  1896 

Vol.  for  1896 

Vol.  for  1897  ^ 

Vol.  for  1898 

Vol.  for  1899 

QUIVER  VOLUMB.    November,  1897,  to  April.  1898    ... 

November,  1898,  to  April,  1899    ... 

May  to  October.  1899  

GOOD  WORDS.    Vols,  for  1888.  1893,  1894. 1895,  1896,  1897,  and  1898 
SUNDAY  MAGAZINE.    Vols,  for  1889.  1893, 1894,  189d,  1896.  and  1898 


each 


Vol.  for  1893.. 


W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  18G,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Railway  Bookstalls,  to  which  places  Subscribers  can  be  transferred,  free  of  charge. 

Frotpeetus  of  Temu,  4c..  sent  free  upon  application  to  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 


Prlated  by  JOHN  BDWAKU  FKANCI8.  Atheaeam  PreM.  llraami  BaildlBKS,  Chanoerj  Laas.  B  C. :  and  PublUhed  by 
iOUM  O.  FHAMUIS  at  Bream's  BoUdings,  Chancery  Lus.  lUi.'SaiMrdmy,  March  9, 1901. 


NOTES   AND    QUERIES: 

%  SUMttm  0t  inurtommnniattttn 


lOB 


LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 

"WlMn  fomid,  nuke  a  note  ot"— Captain  Cuttli. 


No.  168.  [b'^SS.]  Satubday,  Mabch  16,  1901.         {  '"^  kou.pb,o.. 


Bsgitttrwd  m§  m  Nwwtpmpmr, 


SOTHERAN'S  PRICE  CURRENT  OF  LITERATURE. 

(ICONTHLT  CATALOGUE  OP  FEESH  PUECHASES  IN  SECOND-HAND  BOOKS.) 

No.  606,  JUST  PUBLISHED,  for  MARCH,  consists  of  a 
COLLECTION   of  BOOKS  in   ENGLISH   LITERATURE, 

liHdadiiig  SHAKBSPBARE'S  WORKS,  First  Folio  Bdition;  Ditto,  Second  Folio  Edition;  Ditto, 
FoQith  Folio  Bdition;  Ditto,  Halliwell .  Phillipps's  Bdition;  BROWNING  (Robert),  CORBBCTBD 
^BOOFSHBBTS;  BURNS  (Robert).  FORMS,  First  Edition;  BTRON  (Lord),  ORIGINAL  MANU- 
8CSIPT8;  Ditto,  COLLECTION  of  RELICS;  CAXTON'S  GOLDEN  LEGEND,  1493;  DICKENS 
(Gbttloi),  LIFE,  Extra  Dlostrated  ;  DHAMATISTS  of  the  RESTORATION,  printed  on  VeUam; 
nuiSCOTT  PRESS  PUBLICATIONS;  ROSSBTTI  (Dante  Gabriel  and  Christina),  WORKS  by; 
lUJBKlN  (John),  WORKS  by;  SCOTT  (Sir  Walter),  WAVERLBT  NOVELS,  Complete  Set  of  the  First 
Editions ;  TENNYSON  (Lord),  First  Editions  ;  &c.,  &c.,  kc 

Post  free  from 

HENR7    SOTHERAN    &    CO., 

Booksellers,  Publishers,  and  Bookbinders; 
General  Agents  for  Bookbnyers  at  Home  and  Abroad. 

LIBRARIES  AND  BOOKS  BOUGHT, 

VALUED  FOB  PBOBATE,  OR  ARRANGED  AND  CATALOGUED. 
ALSO  ENGRAVINGS,  MANUSCRIPTS,  AND  AUTOGRAPH  LETTERS. 


140,  STRAND,  W.C.  (near  Waterloo  Bridge); 

37,  PICCADILLY,  W.  (opposite  St.  James's  Church). 

Tcbgnphie  AddraM  i  Boourav,  Lomox.  Codes :  Uhicosb  and  ABC. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,  pi^  s.  vn.  mahch 


NBWSVBNDORS'      BBNBVOLBNT 
PBOTIDBMT  IMSTRUnOII. 
Fttnm: 
TU  Blffht  Hon.  tha  B4KL  of  BOtUBBT,  X.O. 


and 


TU  Blffht  Bob.  LOKD  OLEIIB8X. 
Sir  W.  J.  UCHMOMD  OOTTOM . 

IWhllihod  to  MM  for  gmatJag  I ^.  _ 

to  jffitoeipalo  or  MolitMtu  engagod  m  Tendon  of  aoirtpspon. 

A  Donation  of  Tea  Ontoeaa  eonititncet  a  Vlee-Praeident  and  fiTea 
three  Tocet  for  life  at  all  eleetlone.  Batii  donation  of  Three  Omaeaa 
glTee  a  Toce  at  all  eleetlone  for  life.  Krerj  Ananal  Subeerlber  la 
entitled  to  one  Tote  at  aU  eleetlone  to  reipeet  ef  eaeh  flT*  ShUliafe  m 


Bferj  1 


MbUaher.  wholeealer,  retailer,  employer  or  employed,  U  entitled  to 
beeome  a  member  upon  payment  of  flTe  ShUliage  aanuallT  or  Three 
Ovtoeae  tor  life,  promed  that  he  or  ehe  la  enfaged  to  the  aale  of 


papere. 

The  Annnltante  now  number  thlrty-eto,  the  men  reeelTinff  SN  and 
the  women  XM.  per  annnm  eaeh.  Iheee  Penalone,  now  amonnttoK  to 
800L  per  annnm,  are  all  paid  from  the  diTideade  arlainir  from  the 
toveeted  capital  of  the  Insdtntion. 

The  "Koyal  Vlotoria  Penaion  Fund"  wae  eetabllehed  to  UBT.  It 
proTldee  peneieae  of  XM.  a  year  eaeh  for  fomr  widow*  of  newiTendora. 

The  "nrnneis  Fond"  proridee  peneiona  for  one  man  tU.  and  one 
woman  901. 

Temporary  Relief  1*  glTen,  not  only  to  Memben,  but  to  newiTeodore 
or  their  lerranu  who  may  be  reoommended  for  aaelelaaoe  by  Membera. 
Inoolry  la  made  and  relief  awarded  to  aeeordaaee  with  the  meriu  of 
eaeh  eaae.  W.  WILKIB  JOMBB,  Beeretary. 

Memorial  Hall  BnUdinff*,  Farrlngdon  Street.  B.O. 


t$.  nefL    A  fow  Coplee  done  on  Larfe  Paper,  Half-«-OaiBea  net. 

OIBLIOGRAPUY    of    COLBRIDQB.      A    List, 

■^  -  -    -         •  vleal  Order,  of  the  Pnbliehed  aad  PrtTately 

,  ineladiag  his  Contribntlona  to  Annnalt. 


JL>   arranged  to  Chronological  Order,  of  the  Pnbllehed  and  PrtTately 

i  Wrlttogs  of  Coleridge,  inelndiag  his  Contrtbntlons  to  Annuals. 

Poethamons  PuMlcatlons.  Ac     By  the  late   KICHAKD 


Prtoted  Wrlttogs  of  Coleridb< 

Pertodicals,  Posthamons  Pu „.        .       -       - 

HBKNK  SHEPHIi&D.    ReTised,  Correeted,  and  Bnlarged  by  Colonel 
W.  r.  P&IDBAUX.  G8.I. 

"A  deeign  admirably  oarrled  onV—aUmdard  "The  book  has 
erldently  oeen  prepared  with  great  oare."—  WutmimMUr  OmetU. 
"  Thanks  of  all  lOTers  of  litetatare  are  due  to  Colonel  Prtdeaui  for  the 
able  manner  in  which  he  haa  oarrted  out  thU  labour  of  Ioto."— 
FykMieriT  Cireukar. 

FRANK  H0LLIM08.  7,  Great  TumitUe,  Holbom,  W.C. 


I^HB    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER -PAD. 
.    (Th«  LRADBNHALL  PRB88.  Ltd.,  Publishers  sad  Prtnters. 

M,  Laadenhall  8tr«ei.  London.  B.0.> 
Contains  halritse  paper,  orer  whieh   th«    pen   tiips  with    perfect 
freedom.    8lxpcne«  eaeh.    b$.  per  dosen,  ruled  or  plain.    New  Pocket 
Sise,  8s.  per  dosen,  ruled  or  plato. 

AuUor»  should  note  that  The  LeadenhaU  Pteae,  Ltd..  cnnnot  be 
respooaible  l«r  th«  toss  of  MniS.  by  Are  or  otherwise.  Duplicate  eupiM 
should  b«  rsiatoed. 

WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— 8DGAR— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 


BCHWEPPBS  WATRRS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  International 
RxhibiUon,  Paris,  MOO. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Schweppesboda 

THESK  WATER8  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade.  Tonic-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continue  to  be  supplied  to  the  Queen. 

ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:—  \  pj; 
\  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,  >  I  ^ 
{  In  SPLlTb,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  )  I  q 


BULL    FAMILY.— WANTED    any    11 
TION  eoneemlne  the  PAMILT  of  HBMRT  BUi; 


a^    TION  eoneemlnt  the  PAMILT  of  HBNRT  BVI^ 

for  Ameriea  in  the  Ship  Ji  

Twenty.flTe  Years  of  An.    , 

of  Rhode  Island. -BBRNARD  QUARITCH,  16,  PlcoadiU] 


ip  James,  Julj  IS,  iaS8,  and  wna  th 
Ace.    He  afterwards  (1080-00)  heei 


GENTLEMAN  with  experience  UNDl 
RBSBARCH  WORK  of  any  kind  at  BrtUsh  M«i 
where.  Oeaealoffles  traoed;  extraeu  made:  tcmoalal 
moderate. -OHUVR8,  Lenham  Hoose,  Leaham  iiflad,  8a> 

'THE    CORONATION    of    QUEEN    V. 

FOR  8ALB.  a  Copj  of  the  SUN.  Second  Edition,  i 
printed  in  Gold,  oontaininf  a  Fall  Aoeonnt  of  the  aneea 
and  a  Description  of  the  State  Carriaffes  of  Marshal 
other  Ambassadors.-Oflhrs  requested  to  Z.,  Atheasum  I 
Bolidiars,  Chancenr  i'aae.  E.C. 

BOOKS,  MS8.,  &c.— Messrs.  U.  U.  HOJ 
CO.,  Auctioneers  of  Books  and  Litermry  Props 
description.  Libraries  and  smaller  Culleetions  oarefni 
and  promptly  oflered  for  Sale.  Packing  and  Remo-ral 
Valoatlons  made  for  Probate  or  other  purpoees.  Anetio 
Chancery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end).    RsiabUshed  1809. 

/JULLETON'S    HERALDIC    ( 

^^  for  Searches  and  Authentic  Informatloa  reepee 

ARMORIAL   BKARINCM   AND   FAMILY    D£SC 

With  a  Separate  Department  for  the  ArUstie  Prod 

HBRALDIO  PAINTING  AND  BNORAVING 

Book-Plates,  Seals,  Dice,  Signet  Rings.  LiTcry  Bnttone.  ( 

Paper,  Visiting  and  InTitaUon  Cards,  4te. 


82.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green 

FIRST  EDITIONS  of  MOUhRN  A 
including  Diekeos,  Thackeray.  Lever,  Ainsworthi 
trated  by  G.  sod  K.  Cniikshaok,  Phis,  Kowlandson.  Le4 
Ivgest  and  choicest  CoUeeUon  offered  for  («ale  in  the  ' 
logues  issued  and  seat  port  free  on  appUcauon.  Boo 
WALTBR  T.  BPRNCBR,  ij,  New  Oi ford  Street,  London, 


BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOC 
plied,  no  matter  on  what  Subject.  Aoknowtedged  U 
as  thf  must  expert  Buosanders  viiaat.  Please  iLste  wsab 
Great  Bookshop,  14-18,  Joha  Bright  Street,  Birminghaas. 


O 


NE    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATES. 

on  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MORINO. 


Fcap.  4to.    Printed  direct  from  the  Original  Blocks  on  ] 
Paper,  bound  la  arUstlc  boards,  12«.  id.  aet. 

FIFTY    BOOK-PLATES.     Engraved  or 

By  THOMAS  MORINO. 
Uniform  with  the  abore.    Printed  direct  from  the  Orif 
on  Hand-made  Paper.  »s.  net. 

THOMAS  MORING. 
The  De  la  More  Press,  62,  High  Holbom.  London, 


C^ 


TENTH  EDITION,  price  Two  ShUUogs. 

1ELEST1AL     MOTIONS:    a    Handy 

Astronomy.    Tenth  Edition.    With  8  Platea.    By  1 
B  A.  F.R.A.S. 

"  Has,  we  are  Klad  to  see.  reached  a  ninth  edition,  whid 
excellent  Introduction  to  the  tacts  of  astronomy  to  be  ii 
date."— Owirriian 

SAMPSON  LOW  ±  00.  St.  Dunstan's  House,  Fetter  I 


ATHBNiEUM      PRESS.— JOHN     I 
FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  Atfun4n$m.  SoU»  and  Q» 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES   tor  aU  kinds  of  B( 
and    PERIODICAL    PRINTING.— Ul.   Breams    HuUdini 
,E.C 


ScHWEPPES,  LTD.,  LONDON,  Ma^LVBRN, 
OLAMOOW,  UVM&POOL,  BRISTOL,  BYIMIBT,  mA  MBLBOVBMU. 


QTICKPHAST    PASTE    is    HEAPS   be 

O    Gum  tor  sticking  in  Scraps,  Joining  Papers.  *e.    M 
strong,  nsetul  Brush  mot  a  Toy*.    Sead  two  stamps  te  i 


BotUe.  indndlng'  Brush.    Ikeiory.  Hmmr 
- ».   SttokphaaThM 


«!tt«avB.a    Of  aU  Btatioaera. 


•i^aviLMABCHie,i90i.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


301 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  MARCH  16,  1901. 


CONTENTS.-N0.  168. 

VOTBS  t— DanieiAnA,  aoi— Spenser,  *Lncrine.'  and  *Seli- 
nuu,'  a03  — Fint  Lady  Banister— Vanishing  London: 
OhrUt's  Hospital— Mannfngham  and  'TwelftE  NiKht  '— 
■.  Hamley  —  '*  Plnhoen/*  a  Qhost  •  word  —  **  Anyone  "  : 
**  BveryiHie.*'  905  —  **  Distinct "— Comb=>Cockade— Iiiter- 
wUns  Lesal  Action  —  Ctianffed  Sites  of  Towns— Words- 
worthiana,  906-Sir  R.  Peel,  M7. 

QUBRISS  1— **Lattermint"  —  Gun  Reports— *  Bijou  Alma- 
nack'—Oatak»ue  of  Miuical  Instrnments— Ri»od  Well. 
Bdtnburgh,  207  —  "  Carriuk  "  —  **  Noble  "  —  Oonfldentlal 
War  Dispatchea— Bishopric  of  Mons  Maranus— Old  Mar- 
rtage  Custom  in  Yorkshire -Son  of  Lord  Byron— Inicrip- 
tluo  In  Kiaiiel  Onurch  -Cltfrord  t  MorUmer  1  Waller.  :<08 
— 'DeTll's  Pulpit '—Statue  in  Soho  Square —  "  Momiiig 
OI017"— Wall  Calendars  with  Shakespeare  Quotations- 
Had  (ihutar,  909-**  Peer  "^Minnow,  210. 

UPLIBSt- Bxecutions  at  Tyburn  and  Elsewhere,  310— 
Battle  of  Fontenoy,  211— Inoculation,  212— "Curtaiia"— 
Savanoff  and  Mass^na  —  Welsh  MS.  Pedigrees  —  Lamb 
and  *The  Champion '  — Acacia  in  Freemasonry,  213  — 
Movable  Stocks -Flogging  at  the  Cart  Tail  —  **  Kouen  " 
lad  "Soocadaneum.^  214  — Motto  for  Laundry  Porch- 
Halt  and  Hop  Substitutes— Dresden  Amen— "Peridot," 
315—  Columbaria  —  Yeomanry  Records  —  Throsmorton— 
**8kniy,"  ai«— Ipplepen,  217  —  Uuicson  Family—"  Two- 
peany"Tube"-"Cf8ha,"  218. 

ions  ON  BOOKS:  — Dr.  Gardiner's  *  History '  — Mr. 
Bsekethom's  *  London  Memories  '  —  *  The  Mind  of  the 
Oeatury  *  —  **  Chlswick  Shakespeare  "  — '  Winchester  '  — 
'Inglisb  Catalogue  of  Books.' 

lotfaes  to  Cormpondents. 


DANTEIANA. 

1.  *  Infkrno/  xii.  4  et  «w/.  ;— 

Qaal  e  quella  ruina  cbe  nel  fianco 
l>i  qua  da  Trento  T  Adice  percosse. 

A  puzzling  question  of  locality  is  broached 
bere.  Gary  makes  no  attempt  to  solve  it, 
therein  justifying  his  wisdom,  but  Plumptre 
knows  no  such  reticence  : — 

"The  scene  referred  to  is  probably  that  of  the 
judilip  known  as  the  Slavini  (=^recipice)  di  Marvo 
in  the  gorge  of  the  Chiusa,  running  from  the  Adi^e 
leiOMthe  slopes  of  Mount  PastelH).  The  landslip 
tt  described  in  the  *  History  of  Verona '  by  Delia 
Corte  as  having  happened  in  1309,  without  either 
vrthquake  or  tempest." 

Scartazzini  supplies  alternative  surmises,  but 
passes  no  opinion  on  either : — 

'*  Seoondo  gli  uni  Dante  allude  al  varco  apertosi 
dtU'  Adige  a  tra verso  le  falde  del  Monte  Pastello 
nellnogo  detto  la  Chiusa,  e  che  6  chianiato  H  Slarini 
i\  karro ;  secondo  altri  alia  rovina  di  Monte  Barco 
preno  Rovereto." 

Somewhat  oracularly,  but  rightly,  Lombardi 
•dds,  after  giving  the  Monte  Barco  con- 
jecture :— 


altri  (juesta  ruina  in  altra  jNirte; 
naoTnnqne  na  poco  importa." 

iioite  80.    It  matters  htth  wlwre  the  scene 


of  the  allusion  lay ;  of  more  importance  is  it 
that  it  furnishes  the  probable  dates  (as 
Plumptre  observes)  both  of  the  poet's  visit  to 
Verona  and  of  the  composition  of  the  pas- 
sage, if  not  of  the  entire  canto.  This  is  my 
sole  motive  for  touching  upon  it  here. 

2.  Ibid.,  17  :— 

Tu  credi  che  qui  sia  il  Duca  d'  Atone. 
Gary's  rendering  of  this  line  is  a  sample  of 
his  general  looseness  of  translation  : — 

Thou  deem'st  the  King  of  Athens  here, 
which  he  emphasizes  by  his  notes  : — 
"  Duca  (T  Atcne.    So  Chaucer  calls  Theseus  :— 
Whilom,  as  olde  stories  tellen  us, 
Thero  was  a  duk,  that  highte  Theseus. 

•  The  Knighte's  Tale.* 
And  Shakespeare :~ 

Happy  be  Theseus,  our  renowned  duke. 

*  Midsummer  Night's  Dream.' " 

iEgeus,  not  Theseus,  was  King  of  Athens. 
Dante  dubs  the  latter  "duke''  in  the  sense  of 
leader,  as  law-giver  and  administrator,  and 
both  Chaucer  and  Shakespeare  follow  in  his 
wake,  each  making  "  copy  "  of  him  after  his 
own  bent.  The  chequered  career  of  this 
legendary  hero  lent  itself  easily  to  diversity 
of  poetic  treatment. 

3.  IbuL,  40-43  :— 

Da  tutte  parti  V  alta  valle  feda 
Tremo  si,  ch*  io  pensai  che  V  universe 
Sentisse  amor,  per  lo  quale  ^  chi  creda 
Pill  volte  il  mondo  in  caos  converse. 

Is  this  a  reference  to  the  cosmic  theory  of 
Empedocles  condemned  by  Aristotle  in  his 
*  Physics '  and  '  De  Anima  *  i  The  e  chi  creda 
(=e8t  qui  credat)  lends  itself  presumably  to 
the  inference,  and  most  an  no  ta  tors  maintain 
the  allusion.  But  there  is  a  danger,  in  read- 
ing into  every  chance  phrase  systems  and 
theories,  of  over-crediting  an  author  with 
knowledge  of  which  he  is  utterly  unconscious. 
Tlius  Mr.  Bosanquet  (*  Psychology  of  the 
Moral  Self,'  p.  50)  quotes  Shakespeare  in 
proof  of  the  difficulty  of  initiating  psycho- 
logical self-consciousness,  though  I  question 
the  poet's  acquaintance  with  that  branch  of 
mental  science.    The  lines  are  : — 

Cos,  Toll  mo,  good  Brutus,  can  you  sec  your  face  ? 

Iir\it,  No,  Cassius ;  for  the  eye  sees  not  itself, 
But  by  reflection,  by  some  other  things. 

I  do  not  suppose  for  a  moment  that  any 
psychological  arrifre-j)en$^e  lurked  in  Shake- 
speare's mind  when  he  penned  these  matter- 
of-fact  lineSj  which  wore  a  simple  statement 
of  a  certain  impossibility  in  the  absence  of  an 
external  agency.  No  man  can  get  outside 
himself  to  discover  what  manner  ot  vaa.wV\^ 
is ;  the  vision  depeiida  upon  «^  ixntTot  qH  ^qisv^ 
sort.    Shakeapeavc  wAcawVi  ivo\X\\i\^  xxvov^  \}cva.\\ 


202 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,   p^s-vn.  march  16.1901 


this.  Dante,  however,  knew  his  Aristotle 
well  enough  to  make  Virgil  quote,  or  refer 
to,  the  cosmic  nonsense  of  Empedocles. 

4.  Ibid.,  *tl'%  :— 

Chiron  preae  uno  strale,  e  con  la  cocca 
Fece  la  oarba  indietro  alle  mascelle. 

Plumptre  says  :— 

'*  Raskin's  note  on  this  passage,  as  showing  that 
what  Dante  wrote  was  not,  as  with  second-rate 
artists,  the  work  of  a  deliberate  invention,  but  the 
description  of  what  he  had  actually  seen,  as  in  the 
visions  of  the  night,  is  eminently  characteristic— 
•M.  P.,'iii.8." 

So  it  is,  like  most  things  Ruskin  wrote  or 
uttered,  and  like  many  things  equally  far- 
fetched. Dante  was  certainly  not  a  second- 
rate,  but  he  was  in  many  instances  a  second- 
hand artist— as  most  artists  unavoidably  are. 
And  as  to  "  deliberate  invention,"  what  is  the 
whole  poem  but  such?  It  was  as  much  a 
vision  of  the  day  as  of  the  night,  and  in  both 
cases  descriptions  of  what  he  had  not  seen. 
But  Ruskin  would  not  have  been  Ruskin  had 
he  not  been  outr^. 

5.  Ibid,,  107  :— 

Quivi  ^  Alessandro,  e  Dionisio  fero. 

Plumptre  heads  a  long  and  instructive  note 
on  this  and  subsequent  lines  with  a  curious 
sentence  •* — 

"  The  list  of  the  tyrants  who  are  singled  out  from 
among  thousands  as  types  is  interesting  as  furnishing 
data  tor  a  study  of  Dante's  historical  sympathies." 

Had  the  dean  written  ''antipathies"  the 
sentence  had  been  more  intelligible,  for  such 
the  selected  list  shows  them  to  have  been. 
But  of  more  importance  is  the  question 
touching  the  identity  of  Alessandro.  Is  he 
Macedonian  or  Thessalian  ;  Alexander  the 
Great  or  Alexander  of  Pherse?  It  is  more 
than  a  case  of  Utnim  honim  mavis  accij)e. 
The  weight  of  evidence,  in  my  judgment, 
inclines  towards  him  of  Macedon.  That 
Dante  speaks  favourably  of  him  elsewhere 
(*  De  Monarchia,'  ii.  9;  *  Oonvito,*  iv.  11)  "  non 
e  di  molta  importauza,"  as  Scartazzini  ob- 
serves. He  was  the  worse  sinner  of  the  two, 
and  the  entire  'Commedia'  is  constructed  upon 
gradations  of  guilt  and  merit.  Possibly  Dante 
^may  have  changed  his  estimate  [of  the 
Macedonian  monarch],  and  been  influenced 
by  his  favourite  Lucan,"  as  Plumptre  ob- 
serves, but  the  poet's  independence  of  judg- 
ment militates  somewhat  against  the  con- 
iecture.  The  dean  himself  is  of  opinion  that 
^'  Alexander  is  probably  not  the  Macedonian 
c'onguoror,  but  the  Thessalian  tjrrant  of 
Phene."  Bat,  of  course,  neither  this  nor  its 
convene  opinion  brings  us  finality. 


6.  /6td.,  118-20  :— 

Mostrocci  un'  ombra  dall'  un  canto  lola, 
Dicendo :  Colui  fesse  in  grembo  a  Dio 
Lo  cor  che  in  sul  Tamigi  anoor  si  coU. 

A  special  interest  attaches  to  this  passage, 
"  as  one  of  the  few,"  to  use  Plumptre  8  words 
again,  "  in  the  '  Commedia '  which  bring  ui 
into  contAct  with  English  history."  It  is  also 
the  first  of  its  kind  ;  the  next  one  (*  Pw*b' 
vii.  130)  will  confront  us  with  our  Henry  111. 
The  well-known  incident  needs  no  recapita- 
lation  here,  but  the  value  of  the  passsjse  « 
indirect  evidence  of  Dante's  having  virited  , 
England  will  bear  repetition.  In  his  memoit- 
able  article  ^Did  Dante  study  in  Oxford  I' 
{Nineteenth  Century,  June,  1892)  Mr.  Qlid- 
stone  wrote : — 

*'  The  mere  mention  of  the  Thames  by  Duite  ii  i     { 
notable  fact;  for  nowhere  else,  outside  of  IUI7, 
does  he  name  a  river  theretofore  so  unknown  to 
fame  and  of  such  secondary  importance,  anlenm 

connexion  with  his  own  travels The  introdnctioB 

of  the  Thames,  and  its  association  with  a  local  ood- 
temporary  incident,  crowns  the  presumptive  e?i- 
dence  derivable  from  his  other  references  to  EnglsiKLi 
all  coloured  with  local  interest,  and  all  of  them 
contemporary  with  his  own  life. 

Nobody  with  any  pretension  to  historicil 
criticism,  of  course,  doubts  nowadays  th«* 
Dante  did  study  at  Oxford,  as  ho  had  done  «A 
Paris,  though, />er«e,  mere  references  to  foreigE^ 
localities  oo  not  establish  a  presuroptimi  ol 
personal  acquaintance  with  such.  Scott  wrotj 
admirably  of  Manxland,  as  Shakespeare  diA 
of  Italy  ;  yet  Scott  had  never  visited  the  ©!»• 
nor  Shakespeare  the  other.  With  Daat^ 
however,  the  case  ^  differs  materially ;  liv 
allusions  prove — directly  some,  indirectly 
others— actual  intimacy  with  the  region* 
touched  upon.  But  what  does  the  poet  meftO 
precisely  oy 

Lo  cor  che  in  sul  Tamigi  anoor  si  cola? 
That  the  organ  was  exposed  for  public  venei*' 
tion  on  some  column  at  the  head  of  Londoo 
Bridge?  If  so,  I  hold  with  Mr.  Gladstone 
(/or.  cit,)  that  **  we  learn  this  on  the  (I  believe) 
solitarv  testimony  of  Dante."  Or  did  herefeff 
in  Barlow's  sense,  to  its  being  "held  in  honoor 
on  the  Thames  "—as  it  would  be  when  resting 
in  Westminster  Abbey  ?  The  latter  is  the 
more  probable  of  the  two  views.  It  is  worthy 
of  note  that  Viilani  (vii.  39)  perpetuates  the 
former  theory.  Scartazzini  quotes  him  ss 
writing  thus  :— 

'*Adoardo  fece  porre  il  cuore  del  detto  109 
fratello  in  una  coppa  d'  oru  in  su  una  colanns  in 
capo  del  ponte  di  Londra  sopra  il  finme  TamigL* 

Mr.  Gladstone  probably  had   this  sentence 

before  him  when  penning  the  line  cited  above^ 

from  which,  it  appears  to  me,  not  Dante,  bo^ 

\\*\\\»bm,  "^^lA  ^"^^  %^aLt\M)t  ol  the  soppontaon* 


9*  a  vn.  March  16. 1901.]   NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


203 


'*In  anl  T&migi''  is  too  indefinite  an  expres- 
sion to  locate  the  de^itory  of  the  relic—least 
dp  all  on  London  Bridge. 

7.  To  whomdoes  Scartazzini  allude  C  Dan  to- 
logiai'  p.  406)  at  the  close  of  the  following 
•entencet— 
"  Tra  gli  imitatori  di  Dante  vanno  annoverati  i 
'  poeti   di  tutti  i   secoli   posteriori,  incom 


Ddo  dal  Petrarca.  11  quale  soggiacque  mal 

4o  all'  influenza  della  noesia  Dantesca  nelle 

*Rime,*  e  ai  feoe  iroitatore  di  I>ant«  nei  *  Trionfi/  e 


A  ^daino  al  poeta  geniale  cui  oggi  1*  Italia  accorda 
u  pnmo  poato  tra'  suoi  poeti  vivenii." 

J.   B.  McGoVERN. 

8t.  Stephen's  Rectory,  C.-on-M.,  Manchester. 

P.S.— Since  writing  the  above  the  news 
has  been  received  of  Dr.  Scartazzini's  death. 
The  event  is  an  irreparable  loss  to  Danteian 
Hteratnre,  and  should  at  least  be  recorded  in 
*N.  ft  Q.'  His  judgment  did  not  always 
eommena  itself  to  students  of  his  favourite 
author,  but  he  leaves  no  peer  amongst  them 
in  industry  and  scholarship. 


EDMUND  SPENSER,  '  LOCRINE,'  AND 

*8EUMUS.* 

{Continued  from  p,  144.) 

Hablowe  not  onlv  borrowed  much  from 
*The  Faerie  Queene,  but  what  he  borrowed 
finqnently  parallels  or  is  marked  by  signs  of 
fthe  same  cnstinctive  character  as  are  to  be 
ohienred  in  ihe  adaptations  of  Spenser  in 
'SeUfflos.'  These  marks  and  these  parallels 
Uv^  as  I  take  it,  of  sufficient  authority  in 
themaelves  to  establish  a  common  authorship 
far*8elimua'and  the  work  that  goes  under 
Ihrlowe's  name.  Fortunately,  however,  we 
Imits  very  strong  corroborative  testimonv  in 
hvoar  of  Marlowe's  claim,  as  I  shall  snow 
hrther  on. 

Note  how  'Faustus '  and  *  Selimus'  borrow 
bodnd  material  from  the  same  canto  of 
Spenser's  poem,  and  how  this  material  helps 
to  give  expression  to  the  atheism  that  is 
nmpant  in  both  plays. 

The  following  partly  describes  the  appear- 
Uoe  of  Sir  Trevisan  after  his  escafje  from 
the  Miscreaunt :— 

iftfovle  reproch  of  knighthoodes  fair  degree 
About  his  neck  an  hempen  rope  he  weares, 
That  with  his  glistnng  armes  doeii  ill  agree. 

Book  I.  canto  ix.  stanza  xxii. 
Compare  :-- 
'       Kttbought,  Mostaffa,  I  beheld  thy  neck, 
8s  often  folded  in  my  loving  arms, 
ii  foal  disgrace  of  Bashaw's  fair  defirree 
With  a  vJHe  halter  basely  compass^. 

*Selimu8,'lL  2227-30. 

The  rope  was  put  about  Sir  Trevisan's  neck 
W  the  Misereann^  who  was  uaing  aJi  his 


wiles  to  tempt  the  knight  to  destrov  himself. 
In  'Faustus'  we  are  to  imagine  Mephisto- 
philis  or  the  Evil  Angel  acting  similarly  with 
the  Doctor,  and  with  the  same  motive  :— 

Then  gan  the  Villein  him  to  overcraw, 

And  brought  unto  him  swords,  ropes,  poison,  fire. 

And  all  that  might  him  to  perdition  draw,  kc. 

Stanza  1. 
Compare : — 

'*  Faustus,  thou  art  damn'd ! "  then  swords,  and 

knives. 
Poison,  guns,  halters,  and  envenom'd  steel 
Are  laid  before  me  to  despatch  myself. 

Dyce,  p.  88,  col.  1,  ed.  1001. 

When  his  victims  showed  signs  of  waver- 
ing, the  Miscreaunt,  to  draw  them  to  perdi- 
tion, would  show  them 

painted  in  a  table  plaine 
The  damned  shosts  that  doe  in  torments  waile. 
And  thousand  feends,  that  doe  them  endlesse  paine 
With    fire  and  brimstone,  which  for   ever   shall 
remaine.  Stanza  xlix. 

Marlowe  did  not  believe  in  hell :   with  him 
it  was  "  a  trifle  and  mere  old  wives'  tale ''  (see 
Dyce^  p.  87.   col.   1),  and    Faustus  further 
calls  it  a  '*  fable  "  (same  page  and  col.).  More- 
over, Spenser's  description  of  the  torments 
of  the  aamned  is  remembered  in  the  speech 
of  the  Evil  Angel,  p.  133,  col.  2,  commencing 
Now,  Faustus,  let  thine  eyes  with  horror  stare,  &c. 
(Compare  *Selimus'  with  *  Faustus,*  as  well 
as  with  Spenser  :— 
No,  no,  I  think  tho  cave  of  damned  ghosts. 
Is  but  a  tale  to  icrrify  voung  babes  ; 
Like  devils'  faces  scord  on  painted  posts. 
Or  feignM  circles  in  our  astrolabes. 

Lines  428-31. 

The  comparison  could  be  carried  much 
further,  but  what  I  have  said  will  serve  to 
show  how  intimately 'Selimus'  can  be  con- 
nected with  'Faustus.'  In  *  Selimus'  Corcut 
the  Philosopher  seems  to  be  a  first  faint 
shadowing  of  Dr.  Faustus,  just  as  Rarabas 
of  'The  Jew  of  Malta'  is  the  full  develop- 
ment of  Abraham  the  Jew  poisoner. 

A  long  string  of  parallels  could  be  adduced 
to  show  how  closely  Marlowe  copied   *The 
Faerie  Queene'  but  I  have  only  room  to  deal 
with    those   that   connect    themselves  with 
'Selimus.'    Yet  here  is  one,  noted   by   Mr. 
Bullen,  which  may  be  fitly  com|)ared   with 
some  of    the  coincidences   I    have   brought 
fmm  'Selimus '  and  Spenser  :  — 
He  lowdly  brayd  with  beastly  yelling  sownd. 
That  all  the  tieldes  rebellowed  againe  : 
As  ffreat  a  noyfle,  as  when  in  Cymbrian  plaine 
An  heard  of  bulles  whom  kindly  rage  doth  sting, 
Doe  for  the  milky  mothers  want  complaine, 
And  till  the  tieldes  with  troublous  bellowing. 

Book  L  canto  viii.  atM\ia»T\. 
1  '11  make  ye  loar,  \)mX  eailYv  icvbh^  «c\iQ  \qt\X\. 
The  far-resounding  tormeivtA  ^«  «>aA\»iYCk  \ 


204 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9»8.vilmibce 


A8  when  an  herd  of  lusty  Cimbrian  bolls 
Run  mourning  round  about  the  females'  miss, 
And  stung  with  fury  of  their  following, 
Fill  all  the  air  with  troublous  bellowing. 

•  2  Tamb./  IV.  i.  p.  63,  col  1,  Dyoe. 

Note  the  following  :— 

As  when  almightie  love,  in  wrathful  mood, 
To  wreake  the  guilt  of  mortall  sins  is  bent, 
Hurles  forth  his  thundring  dart  with  deadly  food, 
Enrold  in  flames,  and  smouldring  dreriment. 

Book  I.  canto  viii.  stanza  ix. 

And  will  you  not,  you  all-beholding  heavens. 
Dart  down  on  him  your  piercing  lightning  brand, 
Enroll'd  in  sulphur,  and  consuming  flames? 

And,  in  Thy  justice,  dart  thy  smouldring  flame,  &c. 

'Selimus,^  11.  132!^31  and  1446. 
And  bullets,  like  Jove's  dreadful  thunderbolts, 
Enroll'd  in  flames  and  fiery  smouldering  mists. 

*  1  Tamb.,'  U.  iii.  p.  15,  col.  1. 

Lo !  I  the  man  whose  Muse  whylome  did  maske. 
As  time  her  taught,  in  lowly  shepheards  weeds. 

*  The  Faerie  Queene,'  opening  lines. 
Jove  sometime  masked  in  a  shepherd's  weed. 

*  1  Tamb.,'  I.  ii.  p.  12,  col.  1. 
Poor  prince,  thou  thoughtest  in  these  disguised 
weeds 

To  mask  unseen 

hiding  my  estate  in  shepherd's  coat. 

'  Selimus,'  11.  2061-^. 

Their  scepters  stretcht  from  east  to  westeme  shore, 
And  all  the  world  in  their  subjection  held. 

Book  1.  canto  i.  stanza  v. 
Ay,  though  on  all  the  world  we  make  extent, 
From  the  8outh-pole  unto  the  Northern  Bear's, 
And  stretch  our  reign  from  East  to  Western  shore. 

*  SeHmus,'  11.  21-3. 
Stretching  your  conquering  arms  from  east  to  west. 

'2Tamb.,'I.  iii.  p.  47,  col.  2. 
So  from  the  East  unto  the  furthest  West 
ijhall  Tamburlaine  extend  his  puissant  arm. 

*  1  Tamb.,'  III.  iii.  p.  25,  col.  1. 

The  word  "  glut "  with  its  variants  occurs 
so  many  times  in  Marlowe's  work  as  to  con- 
stitute a  feature  by  itself  and  a  mark  by 
which  he  can  be  known.  Note  how  it  comes 
in  in  *  Selimus'  and  *  Tamburlaine,'  although 
Spenser  does  not  use  the  word  in  the  parallel 
passage : — 

**  But  if  that  carelesse  hevens,"  quoth  she,  ^'despise 
The  doome  of  just  revenge,  and  take  delight 
To  see  sad  pageaunts  of  mens  miseries,"  £c. 

Pitifull  s])ectacle  of  deadly  smart, 

Pitifull  spectacle,  as  ever  cie  did  vew  ! 

Book  II.  canto  i.  stanzas  xxxvi.  and  xl. 
O !  you  dispensers  of  onr  hapless  breath, 
Why  do  ye  glut  your  eyes,  and  take  delight 
To  see  sad  iiageants  of  men's  miseries  7 

Pitiful  spectacle  of  sad  dreeriment ! 


Zeno  {vieufmg  the  dead).  But  see,  anot 

spectacle! 

Ah,  wretched  eyes,  the  enemies  of  my  he 

How  are  ye  glutted  with  these  grievous  o 

And  tell  my  soul  more  tales  of  bleeding  r 

*  1  Tamb.,'  V.  i.  p. : 

Observe  how  beautifully  Spenser 
by  both  plays  in  the  following  case, 
that  the  first  line  of  the  ^Selimui 
repeats  a  different  part  of  Spenser  :- 
0  Thou,  most  auncient  grandmother  of  a 
Book  L  canto  v.  sta 
As  does  *  Tamburlaine '  in  line  6  :— 
Enwrapt  in  coal  biacke  clowds  and  filth} 
Book  I.  canto  xi.  sta 
But  I  will  quote,  and  clinch  the  p 
the  two  plays  more  tightly  directly 

Bajazet,  Night !  thou  most  ancient  gn 
of  all. 
First  made  by  Jove,  for  rest  and  quiet  sle 
When  cheerful  day  is  gone  from  th'  ea 

haU; 
Henceforth  thy  mantle  in  black  Lethe  ste 
And  clothe  the  world  in  darkness  infemi 
*  Selimus,' 1] 
0  lightsome  Day;,  the  lampe  of  highest  Jc 
First  made  by  him  mens  wandring  wayes 
When  Darknesse  he  in  deepest  dongeon  < 
Henceforth  thy  hated  face  for  ever  hyde. 
And  shut  up  heavens  windowes  shyning  ^ 
Book  I.  canto  vii.  stan 
Add  three  lines  from  the  precedin 
to  complete  the  parallel  with  '  Tamb 
Now  let  the  stony  dart  of  senceiesse  Cold 
Perce  to  my  hart,  and  pas  through  everie 
And  let  etemall  night  so  sad  sight  fro  me 

Compare : — 

Bajazet.  0  highest  lamp  of  ever-living , 
Accursed  day,  infected  with  my  griefs. 
Hide  now  thy  stained  face  in  endless  nigh 
And  shut  the  windows  of  the  lightsomeh 
Let  ugly  Darkness  with  her  rusty  coach. 
Engirt  with  tempests,  wrapt  in  pitchy  ck 
Smother  the  earth  with  never-fading  mist 

Then  let  the  stony  dart  of  senseless  cold 
Pierce  through  the  centre  of  my  wither'd 
And  make  a  passage  for  my  loathed  life. 

*lTanib.,'V.  i.  p.  3; 
Here  is  the  completion  of  the  parali 
speeches  in  both  plavs  are  made  by 
zeth,  who  has  been  deprived  of  liis 
and  who  is  in  a  state  of  the  utmost  c 
and  misery.  The  association  is  not 
of  mine ;  it  is  an  association  deli 
made  by  the  author  of  *  Selimus,'  w 
course,  Marlowe  himself.    But  I  will 

Bajaztf.  That  woeful  emperor,  first  of  r 
W^hoin  the  Tartarians  locked  in  a  cage 
To  be  a  spectacle  to  all  the  world, 
Was  ten  times  happier  than  I  am. 
For  Tamberlaine  the  scourge  of  nations,  A 


9*8.vilmaboh16,i90li    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


205 


funiliar    with    the    spectacle    of  Bajazeth 
**  lock^  in  a  cage."      Chablbs  Crawfobd. 
(To  be  continued,) 


The  First  Lady  Bareister.— The  Sphere 
for  March  9th  contains  a  full-page  illustration 
of  the  swearing-in  of  Mile.  Chauvin,  the  lady 
barrister,  who  made  her  first  appearance  on 
the  23rd  of  February  before  M.  Magnaud,  the 
President  of  the  Tribunal  at  Chateau -Thierry. 
The  Sphere  states  that  the  judge,  in  welcom- 
ing ^nie.  Chauvin,  said  that 
'*  the  law  which  had  accorded  her  the  right  to 
practise  had  not  been  received  with  equal  enthuai- 
Mm  by  all  her  male  confreres.  The  Chateau-Thierry 
Tribunal,  on  the  contrary,  applauded  that  law.  as 
il  would  energetically  applaud  all  measures  tenaing 
to  emancipate  woman.    That  was  why  he  enter- 
^Ded  the  nope  that  at  an  early  date  a  law  would 
oe  passed  which  would  allow  women  to  sit  in  the 
orainary  tribunals  as  judges.  It  was  with  this  hope 
that  he  welcomed  to  the  bar  of  his  court  the  first 
vonuui  who  had  come  to  plead  before  it." 

A.  N.  Q. 

Vanishing  London  :  Christ's  Hospital. 
-The  Standard  of  March  7th  contains  the 
following  :— 

"The  beginninj^  of  the  end  has  already  been 
jwnmenced  in  gnm  earnest  at  Christ's  Hospital. 
Tbe  Unten  suppers  of  this  year  will  be  the  last 
wat  will  take  place  in  the  historic  building  in 
««wrate  Street.  The  coloured  windows  have 
JjTOMy  been  removed,  and  a  few  weeks  hence 
Jw  fine  organ  wiU  be  dismantled.  It  is  intended 
woyerhaufit  thoroughly,  and  then  to  erect  it  in 
«e  large  hall  at  Horsham.  The  organ  an  old  Blue 
!••  promised  to  jjresent  will  be  placed  in  the  chapel 
ocoune  of  erection." 

N.  S.  S. 

Manningham  and  'Twelfth  Night.'— I  do 
^  think  attention  has  been  called  before  to 
^e  following  parallel : — 
.  ^aifoii.  Now,  as  thou  lovest  me,  let  mo  see  his 

(^mm.   Good  Master  Fabian,  grant  me  another 

^.  /  lything. 

w.  I>.,inot  desire  to  see  this  letter. 
j/m.  This  is,   to  give  a  dog,  and  in  recompense 
^n  my  dog  again.  *  Twelfth  Night,*  V.  i. 

Manningham's  *  Diary/  26  March,  1603  :— 


rent  at  the  time,  the  parallel  furnishes  some 
slight  additional  evidence  that  'Twelfth 
Night '  had  not  long  been  written,  and  there- 
fore that  the  occasion  when  Manningham 
saw  it  actefl  in  February,  1601/2,  was  that  of 
its  first  performance.  G.  Crosse. 

3,  Pitt  Street,  Kensington. 

Edward  Hamley,  B.C.L.  (born  1764).— 
The  'Diet.  Nat.  Biog.,*  vol.  xxiv.  p.  238,  seems 
to  be  in  error  in  assigning  the  oeath  of  this 
scholar  and  poet  to  1837.  His  death  was  an- 
nounced in  the  Gejit.  Mag.  for  1835,  p.  441 ; 
and  an  inscription  in  Stanton  St.  John  parish 
church,  his  burial-place,  states  that  he  died 
7  December,  1834.  He  was  the  elder  of 
the  two  sons  of  Thomas  Hamley,  rector  of 
St.  Col  u  nib- Mai  or,  Cornwall,  by  his  second 
marriage  with  Mary,  sister  ox  Richard  Mant, 
D.D.,  rector  of  All  Saints',  Southampton.  (Cf. 
Harl.  Soc.  publ.,  vol.  xxxv.  p.  340,  where  for 
'*  Hambey  '^  read  Hamley;  *Dict.  Nat.  Bioc.,' 
vol.  xxxvi.  p.  96.)  His  younger  brother,  Giles 
Hamley,  of  Bow  Churcnyard,  Cheapside,  and 
Newington,  Surrey,  died  in  1808  (see  Gent, 
Mag.  for  1808,  pt.  i.  p.  563).  The  Hamley 
pedigree  in  Maclean's  *  Hist,  of  Trigg  Minor,' 
vol.  li.  pp.  550-1,  errs  in  creating  two  distinct 
persons  out  of  his  only  half-brother  Thomas 
Tregenna  Hamley  (born  1759).  H.  C. 

"  Pinhoen/'  a  Ghost  -  word.— The  *  En- 
cyclopiedic  Dictionary '  describes  this  as  "  a 

gurgative  oil  derived  from  Curcaa  multijidtts." 
V  way  of  etymology  it  adds  **  native  name." 
Tnis  looks  as  if  the  editor  of  the  dictionary 
took  it  to  be  Indian  or  negro,  whereas  it  is 
merely  Portuguese.  Its  interest  consists  in 
the  fact  that  it  is  what  Prof.  Skeat,  in  his 
brilliant  article  on  *Mazame'  (9'**  S.  vi.  206), 
calls  a  ghost- word,  the  record  of  a  blunder,  a 
singular  coined  from  a  plural.  The  Portuguese 
singular  is  pinhao.  The  English  singular, 
pinhoen^  is  an  incorrect  deduction  from  the 
Portuguese  plural  jrinhoens.  The  word  as  a 
term  of  pharmacy  occurs  in  very  old  b(x>ks. 
Thus,  in  the  English  translation  of  Acosta's 
Naturall  Historic,'  1604  (iv.  xxix.  289),  I  find, 


_  _  _       "  There  are  a  thousand  of  these  simples  fit  to 

••MrF^'cUCurle^tlild  meT^^^^  j  P^^f^^vt' 'f^^T'''  ""^  ^"n  "ti:"i^n  ^  T""^ 

«HJ  Queenes  kinsman,  had  a  dog  which  he  doted  !  9^^^^,.^\^''^^-\  ^^^^  ."«"*"X  *^t®  full  phrase 
!J»  Wsoemuch  that  theQueene  understanding  of  !  ^^  Pinhoous  do  Brazil,  and  the  puihoen  as 
? 'poeated  he  would  graunt  hir  one  desyre.  and  Brazilian  is  mentioned  by  W.  Piso  in  his  *  De 
3!.ll!l!?.y.i^^y®  *',^^  ^^r'" ''^  ^^i^l^  ^^^  Rcb.    Nat.    Indiarura,*    1648,    iv.     xl.      The 

editors  of  the  *  N.E.D.' may  be  glad  to  know 
of  these  instances  of  its  uso. 

J-\s.  Platt,  Jun. 

"Anyone 


J*«hould  have  what  soever  he  would  aske. 

^amided  his  dogse;    he  gave    it,    and    * 

jMam,*  qaoth  he,  ^vou  promised  to  give  n 

*«yt«.'    *  I  will,'  quothe  she.     *  Then  I  lira 


_  ,    quothe  1 
Pvememydogagaine.'" 


Nowe 
me  my 

jiray  you 


H,  as  we  may  assume  from  the  way  in  which 
toningham  introduces  it,  the  anecdote,  to 


Everyone."—  Mt.\\Q>\%Vv  \.Vv^ 


»L:^GI!"; —  ...w..^-*^  .^  -"«  anecdote,  to  dictionaries  give  eac\\oiA\e^^V.v4o^TL\iT%»vs^^^ 
'^  )»mkmpeMreevideDtlyaUude3,  waa  cur-  /  as  two  words,  1  tViink  \\,  vj\Sl  ^ish^A  "^^  ^r 


208 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9*s.vilmabohim9ol 


mitteci  that  wlien  they  are  meant  to  signify 
a  })er8()n,  the  logical  and  better  method  of 
writing  them  is  that  of  their  synonymes, 
"anybody "and  "everybody/' 

J.  S.  McTbar. 

"Distinct."— In  Macmillan's  Magazine  iov 
March  there  is  an  interesting  article  by  Sir 
Courtenay  Boyle  on  the  *  Coinage  of  Words/ 
in  which  many  severe  things  are  said  about 
some  neologisms  to  which  the  writer  has  an 
antipathy.  One  of  these  unfortunate  words 
is  the  adjective  "distinct''  used  in  the  sense 
of  clear,  unmistakable.    Sir  C.  Boyle  says  :— 

"  UseleRS  and  wrong  is  the  employment  of  dxH- 
finct  in  tlie  sense  of  clear  or  Utcidta :  nothing  could 
be  more  slovenly  than  to  write  a  f/ufinct  ^urcejix  for 
dtrUtdUy  Kucctaifid" 

"Useless,"  "wrong,"  "slovenly "—why  in 
the  world  are  sucn  opprobrious  epithets 
hurled  at  this  extremely  inoffensive  use  of  a 
respectable  adiective  ?  May  I  be  allowed  to 
offer  my  humble  protest  against  this  unjust 
judgment?  I  feel  the  more  called  upon  to  do 
so  as  I  live  in  Oxford  ;  and  I  may  truly  say 
that  among  members  of  the  University, 
whether  graduates  or  undergraduates,  this 
use  of  "distinct "  is  probably  of  hourly  occur- 
rence, and  always  produces  a  distinctly 
Fleasant  efiFect  on  the  mind  of  the  hearer, 
always  hear  it  with  joy.  And  whv,  1  should 
like  to  ask,  does  it  occur  in  Sir  C.  Boyle's  list 
of  hateful  neologisms?  This  usage  is  not  a 
thing  of  yesterdav.  It  has  the  authority  of 
careful  writers.  Neither  Lord  Macaulay  nor 
E.  A.  Freeman  was  "  slovenly "  with  his 
pen.  If  Sir  C.  Boyle  will  consult  '  H.E.D.' 
(as  he  ought  to  have  done),  ne  will  see  («.u. 
'  Distinct,  3  c.)  that  the  usage  has  the  sanction 
of  these  eminent  authors.  It  is  a  distinct 
enrichment  of  our  language 

A.  L.  Mayhew. 

Oxford. 

Comb  -  Cockade.— In  August,  1660,  William 
Harrison,  alx)ut  seventy  years  of  age,  steward 
to  Viscountess  Campden,  walked  from  Camp- 
den  to  Charring  worth,  in  Gloucestershii"o,  a 
distance  of  about  two  miles,  to  receive  some 
rents.  He  disappeared,  but  on  the  highwav 
were  found  a  hat,  a  hatband,  and  comb  which 
had  belonged  to  him.  ''The  hat  and  comb 
being  hacked  and  cut,  and  the  band  bloody, 
his  friends  supix)sed  him  to  be  murdered. ' 
(From  the  *  Account'  published  hy  Sir  Thomas 
Overbury  in  1670.)  The  comb  must  have 
been,  not  any  comb  for  the  hair,  but  that 
which  we  now  call  a  cockade,  worn  on  the 
hattf  of  menservants  whose  masters  hold 
office  under  the  Crown.  "Comb,"  according 
to  the  'N.RD./  w&s  used  of  the  cre*t  ot  a 


helmet,  and  "  cockade  "  is  so  called  from  its 
resemblance  to  a  cock's  comb,  but  no  instance 
is  given  of  **  comb  "  in  this  sense. 

W.  C.R 

An  Interesting  Legal  Action.— The  fol- 
lowing statement,  which  appeared  in  the 
Manchester  Guardian  of  23  February,  de- 
serves, I  think,  a  place  in  *  N.  <k  Q.*: — 

**The  antiquity  of  our  constitution  and  the  com- 
plexity of  our  land  laws  could  not  be  better  illu- 
trated  than  by  a  case  which  was  decided  on 
Thursday,  after  a  hearine  of  many  days,  in  the 
Chancery  Division  of  the  High  Court.  The  aotioa 
was  brouf2;ht  by  the  Lord  of  the  Manor  and  Soke  of 
Rotliley^  in  Leicestershire,  to  recover  a  fine  of  a 
shilling  in  the  pound  on  the  purchase  money  paid 
for  twenty-two  acres  of  land,  called  the  '  Wongs,'  at 
Grimston,  a  village  near  Rothley.  The  qaeetioo 
whether  the  Lord  of  the  Manor  had  a  right  to  im- 
pose this  fine  involved  an  elaborate  inquiry  into  the 
nature  of  the  mediaeval  land  tenure,  especially  of 
*  tenure  in  ancient  demesne,'  and  into  the  hiBUxf 
and  customs  of  the  Manor  of  Rothley  and  its  ap- 
purtenances from  the  Norman  Conquest  down- 
wards. Mr.  Justice  Cozens -Hardy  began  his 
judgment  by  citing  Domesday  Book  to  show  that 
King  William  I.,  and  Edward  the  Confessor  before 
him,  held  the  Manor  of  Rothley,  and  finally  decided 
against  the  plaintiff  on  the  strength  of  *a  com- 
position and  agreement  made  between  the  Master 
of  the  Templars'— who  long  held  Rothley,  and 
built  the  round  church  there— 'and  the  reeve  of 
Grimston  for  himself  and  for  the  men  of  the  tanie 
vill,'  in  the  year  1245.  The  case  will  be  highly 
interesting  to  students  of  mediaeval  history." 

A.  F.  R 

Towns  which  have  changed  their  Sitb. 
—The  town  of  Tamalanque,  mentioned  by 
the  earlv  Spanish  historians  of  New  Qranad% 
changeci  its  site  three  times,  and  has  finally 
been  lost.  General  Joaauin  Acostai  in  hu 
'  (Jompendio  Historico  del  Desubrimiento  de 
la  Nuevo  Revno  de  Granada,'  p.  174,  note,  says 
he  has  found  the  true  account  of  the  matter 
in  a  work  called  ^  Floresta  de  Santa  Marta,' 
by  D.  Nicolas  de  la  Rosa  (1680).  Thia  is  w 
odd  it  seems  worth  making  a  note  of.  fie 
says  (1  translate) : — 

*'  Tiic  chan;;eR  were  made  by  the  audaoity  of  a 
former  parish  priest,  who,  when— as  fre^uentiV  hap- 
pened—^e  got  into  hot  water  with  his  flock  and 
t>ecame  un pleasing  to  them,  used  boldly  to  carry  gB 
the  imrish  images  into  the  forests,  and  also  the 
bells :  he  took  a  portable  altar  with  him  on  which 
to  celebrate,  would  hang  the  bells  up  in  the  nearest 
tree,  and  order  that  they  should  be  rung  in  the 
Harae  manner  as  for  the  vigil  of  a  feast.  In  thia 
way  all  the  neighbourhood  were  obliged  to  pack  ap 
and  remove,  and  build  a  new  Tamalanque  near  the 
priest  and  the  treasures  of  the  church,  which  vrere 
more  valuable  than  their  own  houses." 

IbaguI 

WoRDswoRTHiANA.  (See  anfe.  p.  42.)— The 
notion  of  a  Wordsworth  anthology  is  older 
I  WiOiXv^T.  ^«X«i^«  «B»K3,  It  ia  Latent  even  in 


»k  a  viL  iciacu  18,  M01.1    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


207 


Jeffrey's  famous  article  in  the  Edinburgh  Re- 
vino  of  November,  1814,  the  article  beginning 
with  the  classic  exclamation,  ^'This  will  never 
do!"    In  the  penultimate  paragraph  of  the 
criticine  the  reviewer  comments  on  the  poet's 
pNBfsistent  perversion  of  his  talents,  admit- 
ting the  splendid,  but  occasional  results  of 
their  exercise,  and  he  regretfully  observes, 
**  While  we  collect  the  fragments,  it  is  im- 
possible not  to  mourn  over  the  ruins  from 
which   we  are  condemned    to    pick    them." 
Hasiitt  also,  in  his  lecture  on  'The  Modern 
Poets,' alludes  to  "the  noble  materials  thrown 
away"    in    'The   Excursion,'    while   in    his 
'Boand  Table '  (1815-17)  he  reflects  that  to 
tbe  poet  "the  great  and  the  small  are  the 
nine;  the  near  and  the  remote;  what  appears 
•nd  what  onlv is."  In  the '  Noctes  Ambrosiantv' 
for  1881  (vol.  iii.  p.  234)  emphasis  is  laid  on 
Wordsworth's  "  passages  of  surpassing  excel - 
kooe,"  passages  independent  ot  the  fact  that 
**  Wwdsworth  cannot  conceive  a  mighty  plan," 
for  while  "  his  mind  has  man}^  noble  visions 

tbev  come  and  go,  each  in  its  own  glory." 

In  the  first  volume  of  the  essavs  that  he  pub- 
lithed  in  1870,  under  the  title  *  Among  my 
Booki,'  James  Russell  Lowell,  writing  on 
Shiksspeare,  introduces  incidentally  at  p.  171 
this  passage  on  Wordsworth  :-— 

"Wordsworth  had,  in  some  respects,  a  deeper  in- 
■iht,  and  a  more  adequate  utterance  of  it,  than 
tty  MQ  of  his  jceneration.  But  it  was  a  piecemeal 
iHilhtaiid  atterance:  his  imagination  was  feminine, 
lot  niscnliDe ;  receptive,  and  not  creative.  His 
"Vprpoenw  are  Egyptian  sand-wastes,  with  here 
tWi  there  an  oasis  ot  extjuisite  greenery,  a  grand 
^iB,  Sphinx-like,  half  buried  in  drifting  common- 
Iw«^  or  the  solitary  Pompey's  Pillar  of  some 
(<>vwiiig  thought.  But  what  is  the  fate  of  a  |K)ct 
vhoowns  the  quarry,  but  cannot  build  the  poem? 
uotheoentury  is  out  he  will  be  nine  parts  dead, 
^linmortal  onljr  in  that  tenth  ]»art  ot  him  which 
vmcladed  in  a  thin  volume  of  *  beauties/  Already 
"qoo  his  felt  the  need  of  extracting  this  essential 
ml  of  him." 


PpohaWy    Lowell's    reference    is    to   Hine's 
^vme  of  1834,  mentioned  by  Mr.  Auld. 

THOMAS   BaYNE. 

Sa  Robert  Peel.— Concerning  this  emi- 
^t  iitatesman  the  following  is  quoted  from 
Orerille's  *  Joumar  in  the  Adin&urgh  Review 
for  October,  1874,  p.  543  :— 

**(Md  Sir  CLobert,  who  must  have  been  a  man  of 
ueeediDg  shrewdness,  predicted  that  his  full 
Mviet  would  never  be  developed  till  he  was  in 
tte  liigfaest  place,  and  had  the  sole  direction  of 
wn ;  and  his  brother  LAwrence,  who  told  this  to 
wry  de  Res,  said  that  in  early  youth  he  evinced 
UK  nine  obstinate  and  unsocial  disposition,  which 
B>>  noes  been  so  remarkable  a  feature  of  his 
cksnctsr.* 

On  which,  in  his  copy  of  the  Review  now  in 
■Qy  poasenioo,  Lawrence  Feel  comments  thus  : 


"  I  could  never  have  said  anything  of  the  kind,  as 
I  never  thought  it ;  had  no  opiwrt unity  of  jud^ngof 
my  brother  in  *  his  early  youtn,*  as  ho  was  thirteen 
years  older  than  myself ;  and  1  cerUinly  never  heard 
my  father  express  such  an  opinion." 

W.  H.  David. 


entries. 

We  must  reouest  correspondents  desiring  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct.  

"  Lattermist."— In  *Endymion/  book  iv. 
1.  r)76,  Keats  mentions  together  "savory, 
latten/untf  and  columbines."  What  is  the 
meaning  of  "  lattermint,"  and  can  any  other 
example  of  the  word  be  citeil  ? 

Henry  Bradley. 

Clarendon  Press,  Oxford. 

Gun  Reports.— During  the  sad  royal  pro- 
cession from  Cowes  to  Portsmouth  the  report 
of  the  guns  was  only  slightly  audible  at 
Southsea,  and  not  at  all  so  at  Chichester, 
fifteen  miles  distant,  yet  at  Croydon— seventy 
miles  ~  the  "  booming  "  was  quite  distinct. 
Can  any  of  your  readers  explain  this  ? 

A.  D   H. 

[The  sound  was  distinctly  audible  at  Harrow 
W  eald.    Currents  of  air  might  be  responsible.] 

*  Bijou  Almanack.*— Can  any  of  the  readers 
of  *  N.  &  Q.'  inform  me  in  which  magazine 
and  in  what  month  during  the  last  year  there 
appeared  a  |)age  with  illustrations  of  'The 
Bijou  Almanack,'  a  tiny  illustrated  book, 
al>i)ut  three-(j[uartei's  of  an  incli  long,  in  a 
case  and  with  a  small  magnifying-glass  ? 
Bijou  almanacs  came  out  in  1837  or  there- 
abouts. The  Unmlstakable. 

Catalogue  of  Musical  Instruments.— 
There  was  a  sale  by  auction  of  the  collection 
of  musical  instruments,  <tc.,  of  the  late  Sir 
William  Curtis,  which  took  place  on  23  May, 
1827,  the  auctioneer  being  a  Mr.  Musgrave. 
If  any  reader  of  *  N.  *fc  Q.'  has  the  catalogue,  I 
shall  be  very  glad  to  see  it.     I  particularly 

I  wish  to  learn  the  prices  realized. 

Arthur  F.  Hill. 

i      140,  New  Bond  Street,  W. 

'  Rood  Well,  EniNBURciH.— In  *  Kites  of 
I  Durham '  chap,  xv.,  we  find  the  legend  of  the 
hunted  liart  and  the  holy  roo<l  from  which 
Holy  rood  derived  its  name,  and  we  are  told 
that "  in  the  place  wherin  tnis  miracle  was  so 
w  rough  to  do  til  now  spring  a  fountaine  called 
the  Rude  well."    Can  tl\\»  >we\V  Vj^  W-wVix^v^vW 


208 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,   [o*  s.  vil  mabch  mj,  uol 


••  Carrick.**— A  finaDcial  diary  of  a  former 
citizen  and  Sheriff  of  Exeter  (1631-43),  fienes 
me^  contains  the  following  items  : — 

"1633,  Nov.  28.  m' Clement p'miseth  to  send 

me  a  Rtaffe  carrick." 

"  1639,  Sept.  3.  m'  Abraham  Sherwill  sent  mo  a 
carrick  stick  for  a  token." 

The  *  H.E.D.'  throws  no  light  upon  the  term, 
but  the  'E.D.D.' notes  two  examples  of  its 
use  in  Scotland,  for  a  stick  for  playing  hockey 
or  any  similar  game.  (Confirmed  by  an  entry 
in  Jamieson's  *  Scottish  Dictionary. )  As  the 
writer  and  his  family  were  Devonians,  it 
would  be  interesting  to  learn  how  the  term 
was  imported  into  their  county.  The  same 
diary  includes  another  entry  in  which 
*^ carrick"  is  again  mentioned,  but  in  an 
entirely  different  sense : — 

**1640.  June  '29.  Paid  m""  White  a  L<mdonner 
xxxiij*  for  a  ]iarcell  of  Carrick,  or  Cheny,  vix.,  a 
basin  &  ewre,  1 1  dishes  of  severall  sizes,  &  a  vinegar 
spowt 1.  13." 

No  dictionary  that  has  been  consulted  affords 
any  explanation.  Possibly  it  may  be  traced 
back  to  the  A.-S.  carr.A  rock. 

T.  N,  Brushfield,  M.D. 

"  Noble."— I  should  esteem  it  a  favour  if 
any  of  your  readers  would  inform  me  as  to 
the  meanin(<  of  the  word  "  noble  "  in  a  Swiss 
genealogical  tree.  It  occurs  repeatedly  in 
one  now  before  me,  between  the  fourteenth 
and  seventeenth  centuries.  No  other  title  is 
given,  and  it  would  be  interesting  to  know  its 
meaning.  The  verbiage  is  French,  and  the 
places  most  frequently  mentioned  are  "Agy  " 
and  "Yverdon.  Swiss  Connection. 

Confidential  DisrATciiEs  to  the  War 
Office.— Can  any  of  your  readers  give  me 
the  history  and  origin  of  dispatches  to  the 
War  Office  being  confidential,  e.ff.^  from  the 
Commander-in-Chief  in  the  field  ? 

Cyclops. 
[See  yh  S.  vi.  107.] 

BiSHOPEic  OF  MoNs  M  ARAN  US.— Can  any 
of  your  readers  tell  me  the  whereabouts 
of  any  bishopric  called  Mons  Maranus? 
1  have  an  episcopal  seal  with  the  legend 
'*S.  petri  epi  Montis  Marani,"  and  a  repre- 
sentation of  the  Annunciation— a  figure  of 
Gabriel  kneeling  before  the  Virgin,  who 
stands  on  the  left.  A  label  with  "Ave" 
floats  between  them.  Chevron. 

Old  Marriage  Custom  in  Yorkshire.— 

In   the  fifties  (and  I  don't  know  how  long 

before)  the  privilege  belonge^l  to  the  two  top 

boys  of  King  Edward  VI.'s  School  at  Giggles- 

wicJc  of  attending  the  marriages  of  persons 

of  the  upper  classea  in  any  of  the  neigVvbour- 


ing  churches,  and  of  reciting  one  of  Martiaft 
nuptial  odes  or  epigrams.  As  soon  as  the 
marriage  ceremony  was  finished  the  two 
boys  joined  hands  and  barred  the  paasage 
between  the  altar  and  the  vestry  where  tne 
register  was  to  be  signed,  stood  face  to  face 
with  the  happy  pair,  recited  their  ode 
together,  and  were  generally  rewarded  with 
a  guinea.  Does  sucn  a  custom  prevail  else- 
where ?  J.  B.  W. 

A  Son  of  Lord  Byron.— In  Mr.  William 
Sharp's  '  Life  and  Letters  of  Joseph  Severn,' 
on  pp.  207-8,  there  is  a  letter  dated  "  June  88 
ri846?]"  from  George  Gordon  Byron»  in 
which  the  writer  states  that  he  is  **  engaged 
at  present  in  writing  a  life  of  the  late  Lord 
Byron,"  and  he  concludes  by  stating  **in 
confidence  "  that  he  is  "  the  son  of  the  author 
of  *  Childe  Harold.' "  Mr.  Sharp  adds  a  foot- 
note, *'  The  *  Life  of  Byron '  is  by  no  means 
apocryphal,  I  understand,  though  the  MS. 
has  not  yet  come  to  light,  and  perhaps  never 
will."  Ls  anything  known  of  this  individual 
or  of  his  projected  work  ? 

W.  E.  WiLBOir. 

Inscription  in  Rinnel  Church.  (See  7* 
S.  xii.  309.)— Looking  over  an  old  volume  of 
*N.  &  Q.,'  I  find  the  following  inscriptioiL 
recorded  : — 

While  Rirss  f[:row8  green  and  water  rina  clear, 
Let  nane  but  Ogilvys  be  buried  here. 

I  am  induced  to  inquire  whether  this  in- 
scription has  yet  an  existence,  and   wher^ 
llinnel  Church  is  situated,  for  I  have  searchecJ 
through  several  topographical  dictionaries  o£ 
Scotland  without  being  able  to  find  the  name 
of  the  i^lace.     Many  years  ago  it  was  said 
that  Cortachy,  in  Forfarshire,  was  the  burial- 
place  of  the  Ogilvys,  and  so  in  fact  it  was. 
The  last  two  Earls  of  Airlie,  however,  do  not 
lie  there,  for  one  died  in  Manitoba,  and  his 
son— "that  gallant  soldier,"  as  Lorn  Roberti 
justly  called    him—fell   recently    in   South 
Africa.    I  can  remember  meeting  them  both 
at  the  gathering  of  the  Clan  Ogilvy  at  Clovii 
in  Fortarshire.  in  1866,  and  the  band  playing 
the  old  Scotch  melody  *The  Bonnie  House 
of  Airlie.'  John  Picktord,  M.A 

[Perhaps  Kinncll  Cliurch,  on  Lunan  Water,  ii 
intended.    It  is  iu  Forfarshire.] 

Clifford:  Mortimer:  Waller.— In  Berry's 
'Bucks  Pedigrees'  there  is  an  unusually 
careful  chart  of  the  Waller  family,  in  which 
it  aopears  that  Henry  Waller  married  Alice 
(le  Mortimer,  and  his  grandson  Thomas 
Waller  married  Catherine  de  Clifford,  the 
latter  marri^e  being  probably  about  the 
^>,'^T  \^*^.    r  «wx  desirous    to   trao^  the 


9»  8.  viL  bcaboh  16. 1901.]   NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


209 


pftreDtase  of  these  two  ladiaa.  Can  any 
reader  of  *N.  &  Q/  inform  me  of  the  toarri^e 
of  a  Clifford  or  a  Mortimer  to  one  of  these 
Wallem,  who  were  first  of  Hockerton  and 
later  of  Groombrirlge,  Kent?  Any  clue  to 
tie  family  of  either  would  be  of  value. 

H,  M.  Batson. 

*Thie  Devil's  Pulpit/  — Docm  anybodj^ 
know  aiAEht  of  a  work  entitled  *The  Devil  h 
Pulpit,'  By  the  Rev.  Robert  Taylor,  B.A„ 
pablished  by  the  Freethought  PubliBhing 
Company  1  It  compriaes  a  ierie^  of  lectures 
rletiveren  by  an  ex-clerpiymari  at  the  Rotunda, 
Blaetfriarsi  Road,  in  the  year  1830,  the  object 
bein|?  to  show  the  Scripturtjs  to  be  astro- 
Domieal  altegones,  and  to  establish  that  they 

tre  of  no  historical  signification, 

Syimbolio. 
[See  e*^'  a  I.  3S7,  472 ;  xL  78,  396.] 

Stati/e  ly  Soeo  Square.— The  statue,  said 
to  bave  b^n  of  bronze,  and  variously  de- 
»ribed  as  King  Charles  IL  and  the  Duke 
of  Monraouth,  which  forraerly  stood  in  the 
oentre  of  Soho  Square^  has,  I  am  informed, 
raceatly  disappeared,  and  ih  ^d  to  have  been 
trinrferred  to  one  of  the  housew  in  the  square. 
Will  Mr,  Mills,  of  Xo.  24,  So  ho  Square,  inquire 
*«  to  itg  whereA^Kints  ?  I  do  not  mean  to 
injpate  that  Mr*  MilU  h&s  appropriated  the 
statae,  but  I  appeal  to  him  as  a  friend  to  art 
^tid  Artists.  JoMK  Hebb. 

*'HoRKINc  Gloey/*— What  variety  of  con- 
ylviilu«  is  it  to  which  this  name  is  given  in 
^Bv  En  gland »  and  what  is  the  colour  of  itt* 
Mwer?  a  a  B. 

Wall  Calendail*i  with  Quotations  from 
SsitisPEARE.— In  the^e  rK>pular  chronologi- 
**!_  remind ers  (such  usenil  adjuncts  to  the 
anting- table)  one  has  at  lea^t  a  right  to 
■*«naie  accuracy  of  reference,  CHTJCscially  when 
Mie  production  i«  vouched  by  an  im[K*rtant 
JJ  well-known  firm.  On  tne  morning  of 
Wednefdaj,  21  Nov.,  1900,  on  my  removing 
Jhe  ftdhesdVA  «lip  of  the  preceding  day,  my 
Oilendar  of  Appropriate  Quotations  ^  —  all 
Proclaimed  as  from  Shake-^ppaie's  works— 
JBi.'^ed  the  line  *'  The  spn^oh  of  peace  that 
J^rs  such  grsjce,"  reference  *'  *  -2  Henry  Vf .,' 
1*  -  i. "  Proceed  i  n  g,  acco  rd  i  rj  g  to  m  y  i  n  vari  able 
CBstom,  to  follow  Dr.  Houth's  wholeHome 
■dvice  and  verify  the  quotation,  I  waw 
^m*We  to  Had  the  line,  or  indeed  any  passage 
*oihe  effect  cite^I  at  the  refeT-ence  given  :  and 
1  have  since  searched  not  only  all  the  histrm- 
^  plays,  but  the  Concordance  itself,  with  a 
hkjreroit 

_A  more  intereating  instance  of  erroneous 
^'fawnoe  w«8  diecJcSed  ^  week  hter.     The 


quotation  presented  on  the  following  Wed- 
nesday, 2B  November,  ran  :— 

**  Evory  ntaa  haa  a  bn(;^  harijrioe  before  him,  in 
which  h©  puts  his  neighonur*si  fatuta;  and  another 
Whhid  him  in  whioh  he  wtowa  his  own," 

vouched  "'Coriolanus,'  Tl.  i."  Reference  to 
play  in t Heated  and  anotlicr  search  in  the 
Concordance  produced  the  like  negative 
result  to  the  preceding  experience. 

I  thereupon  wrote— conhning  myself  t-o  this 
individual  false  "light" —to  the  compiler, 
with  whom  on  previous  occa-sions  I  haci  had 
a  courteou.s  and  more  or  less  satisfactory 
correspondence,  en cloHing  a  stamped  directed 
envelope  for  reply.  I  have  not  yet  received 
the  desired  explanation,  although  my  letter 
has  been  courteously  acknowledged. 

I  have  called  this  a  moi*e  interesting 
instance  for  this  reason.  In  the  Evening 
N^ews  for  ^fonday,  15  May,  1882  (no  reference 
to  source  or  author  given),  the  following  lines 
appeared  :— 

From  our  necks,  when  Life'a  journey  heEfina, 

Two  Hai^kfl  JOTB»  the  Father,  auj^tjcnds; 
The  one  for  our  nwa  projmr  sins. 

The  other,  for  Bins  of  our  friends* 
The  firat,  man  immediately  throws 

Out  of  si^ht,  nut  of  mind,  at  his  ba^k  I 
The  m  her  he  keei>a  ^nentb  hi.s  nose 

And  tif>tos  every  aiiJ  in  the  sack  ! 

With  infinite  paius  I  traced  the  idea  to  old 
/Ksop.  In  *  Fables  of  yEsop/  tranf^latefl  and 
edited  by  the  Rev.  George  Fyler  Townsend 
(Routledges  edition  of  18H(]),  on  p.  135  I  find 
a  fable  entitled  *  The  Two  Bags,'  told  thus  t— 
'^  Every  man,  aciordin^'  to  tw\  ancient  legi^tid^  is 
lioni  into  the  wr>Hd  with  two  bsi^S!*  nuRipend**d  from 
his  neck— a  »ma11  btiK  in  front  full  of  his  neigh l>our»* 
fftulU,  iLUfi  a  large  hJiff  behind  Jilled  with  his  own 
faults.  Heuee  it  irt  that  inon  ure  ijuick  to  see  tha 
faults  of  othcni,  aud  yut  aro  often  blind  to  their 
own  failings." 

Some  one  or  moi^e  of  your  readers  could  no 
doubt  help  me  to  trace  the  origin  of  the 
metrical  version  of  this  mo  nil  trndition. 
Will  such  a  courteous  reader  kimlly  do  sol 

At  the  same  time,  returning  to  the  main 
objei't  of  my  query^  1  as^k,  Whore  doejj 
Shakespeare  coine  in  ?  Where?  And  echo — 
this  time  irot  Hibernian — accurately  enough 
respond.^  with  a  repetition^  Where? 

(iSOMON. 
Temple. 

Ned  Shuter.— What  arc  the  dat^'H  of  the 
birth  and  death  of  this  actor,  a  disstinpuished 
comedian  in  the  reigns  uf  Ct^arpos  IL  nod  l\l.^ 
who  seems  to  liave  btH*n  renowned  for  his 
marvellous  play  of  feature  f  He  is  described 
by  Dr.  Doran  in  his  nmuHinp;  b^vok  *Tl\e\t 
Majesties'  Bervant^,'  tv  rea\  nt\diuia  va  pi\T\ic>^ 
in  chap,  xxxyu,  eiiUUed  '¥Att^  Oan^^nHq^- 


210 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,   p^-s-vilmabci 


ward,  Shuter.'  Looking  over  *  Elegant  Ex- 
tracts in  Poetry/  publisned  in  1796,  the  con- 
cluding portion  of  which  contains  a  large 
collection  of  prologues  and  epilogues,  I  find 
an  epilogue  (117)  "intended  to  be  spoken  by 
Mr.  Shuter  in  the  Character  of  a  School- 
master with  a  Rod  in  his  Hand.'  The 
probable  date  may  be  1785.  After  warning 
the  ladies  against  playing  cards  on  Sunday, 
it  thus  concludes  :  — 

And  now,  my  pupils,  what  you've  learnt  this  night 
Go  teach  to  others,  and  you  Ml  then  do  right : 
Be  you  to  them  the  same  indulgent  tutor, 
And  come  next  year  to  see  youi*  friend  Ned  Shuter. 

John  Pickfoed,  M.A. 

Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

[Shuter  is  supi>osed  to  have  been  born  in  1728,  of 
obscure  parents,  in  the  house  of  a  chimney-sweep 
named  Meritt  in  Vine  Street,  St.  Giles's,  London. 
He  died  1  November,  1776,  and  was  buried  in 
St.  Paul's,  Co  vent  Garden.] 

"Pebr"=a  Minnow.— Hall i well  gives  this 
as  a  Somerset  word.  It  is  also  said  to  be 
known  in  Derbyshire.  A  glossarist  gives  the 
following  rime : — 

When  the  corn  is  in  the  ear. 
Then  the  perch  will  take  a  peer. 

I  should  be  ^lad  to  get  further  evidence  of 
the  use  of  this  word  in  Somerset  or  Derby- 
shire, and  to  hear  of  its  use  elsewhere. 

A.  L.  Mayhbw. 
Oxford. 


EXECUTIONS  AT  TYBURN  AND 

ELSEWHERE. 

(9^  S.  vii.  121.) 

I  HAVE  read   Me.    Rutton's  remarks  on 

'Executions  at  Tyburn  *  with  great  interest. 

I  think  it  would  simplify  all  the  questions 

he  starts— several  of  which  he  answers  most 

clearly— if  he,  and  any  one  who  attempts  to 

follow  him  in  a  difficult  field  of  research, 

could   begin   by  defining  the  terms  of  the 

inquiry.     What  does  he  mean  by  Tyburn  ] 

1.  Tyburn,  at  the  time  of  the  Domesday 
Survey,  was  a  manor  which  extended  from 
Rugmere,  now  Bloomsbury,  westward  to  the 
brook  of  Tyburn. 

2.  Tyburn  was  a  brook  which  ran  from 
Hampstead  to  the  Thames. 

3.  Tyburn  was  a  parish  which,  contrary 
to  the  rule  in  Middlesex,  comprised  two 
manors  :  one  of  them  was  Tyburn,  and  stood 
east  of  the  brook:  the  other  Lilestone, 
which  stood  west  or  the  brook,  but  east  of 
Edgw&re  Road. 

4,  Tyburn  was  a  place,  a  village,  what  \u 
Australia  is  defined  as  a  township— a  word 


which    does    not   imply  that    it 
houses  or  inhabitants. 

When  Mr.  Rutton  speaks  of  T 
years  after  Domesday,  to  which  of 
does  he  refer]  Ralph  the  Dean, 
quotes,  evidently  means  the  thin 
tne  brook.  He  says  "prope  T 
which  may  mean  the  town  of  Ty 
that  we  have  evidence  that  then 
later  there  was  no  such  town  • 
"  Prope  Ti  bur  nam  "in  its  simple  b 
"near  the  Tyburn."  Roger  of  \ 
improvement  Tiburcinam  does  not 
question.  Ralph  cannot  mean  the 
himself  an  ecclesiastic,  he  would 
so — **  Prope  ecclesiam  Sancti  Joha 
Tiburnam,"  or  something  of  the 
can  hardly  have  intended  the 
Tyburn,  which  the  old  road  em 
what  is  now  Tottenham  Court 
left  at  the  Marble  Arch,  having  ( 
brook  at  what  is  now  St.  Maryiel 
If  Mr.  Rutton  must  have  a  spot 
that  where  Long  beard  was  hangec 
cult  to  see  why  he  cannot  accept  s 
ture  to  think  is  the  plain  trausla 
dean's  Latin,  prof^  Tiburnam, 
Tyburn,"  on  the  western  road  ( 
way. 

That  in   1196  there  was  no  tc 
point  at  which  the  road  crossed  t 
is    pretty   certain.    The    Domesd 
says  nothing  of  a  church  either 
Lilestone.    The  first  mention  of 
of  St.  John  by  Newcourt  is  duric 
copate  of  William  of  St.  Mary, 
years  after  Longbeard  s  death.    It 
that  a  bridge  may  have  been  mad 
the  church  was  ouilt  about  the 
Previously   it    would    seem    that 
crossed  a  little  higher  up  the  strei 
two  greens,  Lissou  or  Lilestone  ar 
ton,  faced  each  other  at  the  cross 
it,  one  east,  the  other  west  of  Edg 
This  road,  the  ancient  Watling  Si 
a  boundary  as  well  marked  as  t 
itself,  better  than  the  Tyburn, 
divided  the  two  manors  of  one  pa 
1  have  never  found  any   part 
(parish  or  manor,  or  of  Lissou  n 
of  Edg  ware  Road. 

In  1400,  on  23  October,  the  chi 
old  road,  at  the  crossing  of  the  T 
abandoned  and  pulled  down,  \» 
Bray  brook's  leave,  and  thecha|>el  < 
higher  up  the  stream,  near  Lissou 
made  parochial. 

It  is  evident  that  no  town  or  v 
by  the  Tyburn  where  the  old  roa< 
im  \Aai^.   '^^^Qwa^  (i.  696)  say* 


9»&viLMA»jHi«,ifloi.]   NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


211 


parishioners  oomplained  of  the  standing  of 
their  parish  church  near  the  public  highway 
or  road  leading  towards  Acton,  on  account 
of  which  it  was  robbed  of  books,  vestments, 
images,  bells,  and  other  ornaments. 

tio  that  at  the  end  of  the  fourteenth  cen- 
tury, two  hundred  years  and  more  after  tlie 
hanging  of  Liongbeard,  the  highway  from 
Su  Giles's  to  the  southern  end  of  the  £dg- 
ware  Road  was  still  lonely  and  deserted,  and 
passengers  going  westward  preferred  to  steer 
tor  St.  Mar^^s,  higher  up  the  bourne,  and 
thence  by  Lisson  Green  across  the  Edgware 
Bead  to  Faddington. 

The  manor  of  Lilestono  was  early  granted 
to  the  Hospitallers,  as  is  now  marked  by 
St  John's    Wood,  the  northern   end.    The 
manor  house  stood,  I  think,  where  Queen 
Charlotte's  Lying-in  Hospital  stands  now.  The 
wmthem  part  of  the  manor  was  evidently 
almost  deserted  down  to  the  end  of  the  eigh- 
teenth century,  and  the  names  of  the  fields 
which  comprised  what  is  now  the  Portman 
tttate  give  us  the  reason.    In  the  small  dis- 
trict bounded  on  the  east  by  the  Tyburn,  on 
the  south  by  the  old  road,  now  Oxford  Street, 
•od  on  the  west  by  the  Edgware  Road,  we 
find  that  fields  in  1512  bore  tlie  following 
osmee  (L.  Larking,  *  Hospitallers,'  Cam.  Soc., 
1857):   Great    Gibbet  Field,  Little   Gibbet 
Rdd,  Hawkfield,  Tassal  Croft,  Boys  Croft, 
^vze  Crof t^  Brockstand,  and  Shepcott  Haws. 
Here  then  we  have  a  rough,  furzy  piece  of 
^oond,  with  at  least  two  gibbets,  each  no 
doabt  bearing  its  malefactor  in  irons— a  place 
^  badger-baiting,  a  mews  for  falcons  and 
I        oeroeU,  a  hut  for  a  shepherd,  and  a  patch  of 
luaotation.    As  they  were  let  on  lease  by 
^e  Lord  Prior  at  8/.  a  year,  these  fields  in 
we  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  belongcl  to   the 
g*nor  of    Lilestone,  Lisson,  or  St.  John's 
"Ood.    For  these  and  other  reasons,  some  of 
which  arc  set  forth  in  my  *  History  of  London ' 
VL  822,  jkcX  I  fail  to  follow  Mr    Kutton 
^hen  h(»^  says    that    the  boundary  of    the 
P^hof  Tyburn  (or  docs  he  mean  the  manor, 
w  that  of  Lilestone  ?)  is  ill  defined  on  the 
•est,  or  when  he  sees  goixi  reason  to  place 
I*rt  of  Tyburn  west  of  Edgware  Koad. 

He  has  also,  as  I  venture  most  difiidently 
^. 8ugge?»t,  been  misled  by  "a  valued  con- 
^QU)r,''  whom  he  does  not  name,  into  sup- 
Pwing  the  Veres  were  ever  lords  of  Tyburn. 
«obert  Vere,  fifth  Earl  of  Oxford,  died  the 
•ine  year  as  that  of  Longbeard  s  judicial 
QiQnler,  at  which  time  he  was  tenant  of  the 
^*«t«m  half  of  the  parish,  the  Domesday 
"^Wior  01  Tyburn,  whose  western  boundary 
^t8  formiHl  by  the  brook.  He  was  not  lord 
^  the  manor,  which  he  roDted  from  the  Lady 


Abbess  of  Barking.  He  had  none  of  her 
manorial  rights  of  the  gallows ;  and  as  to  the 
lease,  he  gave  it  to  one  of  his  younger  chil- 
dren, the  lady  who  married  William,  eldest 
son  of  the  Earl  of  Warren  and  Surrey.  The 
subsequent  history  of  the  lease  is  detailed  by 
Lysons. 

I  hope  Mb.  Rutton  will  pardon  these  re- 
marks. His  paper  is  so  valuable  and  so 
interesting,  so  suggestive  of  further  inquiry, 
that  I  feel  bound  to  offer  him  the  notes 
gathered  many  years  ago  for  a  different 
purpose.  W.  J.  Loptie. 

The  Battle  of  Fontenoy,  1745  (9^  S.  vii. 
25,  114).— I  beg  that  your  correspondent  will 
pardon  me  for  saying  that  I  do  not  think  he 
has  been  quite  just  to  me  in  assuming  that 
I  am  oblivious  of  the  "famous  salute  at  Fon- 
tenoy." On  the  contrary,  if  Me.  Marshall 
had  recorded  in  *  N.  &  Q.'  that  I  purposely 
omitted  all  reference  to  the  subject,  and  for 
the  sole  reason  that  I  entertain  the  belief 
that  there  is  no  foundation  in  fact  for  the 
graceful  salutes  attributed  by  Voltaire  to 
Lord  Charles  Hay  and  the  Count  d'Auteroche, 
it  would  have  been  a  statement  of  the  simple 
truth.  However,  in  connexion  with  the 
matter  I  request  permission  to  mention 
that  Mr.  John  Morley,  M.P.,  in  his  delightful 
work  entitled  *  Voltaire'  (London,  Chapman 
&  Hall  J  1872),  states  that  the  author  of 
the  *Histoire  de  Charles  XII.'  1731,  wrote 
that  ''history  is  after  all  nothing  but  a 
parcel  of  tricks  that  we  play  the  dead  " ;  and 
m  support  of  this  theory  I  may  remark  that 
I  appreciate  Voltaire's  story  of  Lord  Charles 
Hay  s  exclamation  and  Count  d'Auteroche's 
reply  thereto  as  a  mere  fabrication. 

With  regard  to  the  assertion  that  Marshal 
de  *'  iSaxe  was  so  ill  that  he  was  unable  to  sit 
his  horse,  and  gave  his  orders  from  a  litter," 
will  Mr.  Marshall  kindly  allow  me  to  direct 
his  attention  to  *  Tlie  History  of  France,'  by 
M.  Guizot,  translated  from  the  French  by 
Robert  Black,  M.A.,  vol.  v.  pp.  119-21  (London, 
Sampson  Low  &  Co.,  1876)  ?  It  is  only  right 
to  add  that,  according  to  John  Cornelius 
O'Callaghau,  the  Irish  Brigade  at  Fontenoy 
consisted  of  «/>,  and  not  seveyi  regiment**,  as 
stated  by  Mr  Marshall. 

We  do  indeed,  as  suggested  by  your  corre- 
spondent, want  a  more  complete  history  of 
the  immortal  Irish  Brigade  than  the  one  now 
in  existence.  We  want  a  work  similar  to 
Gibbon's  great  histcjry,  "so  famous,"  says 
Mr.  John  Morley,  "for  its  splendid  breadth 
of  conception  and  industrious  elaboration  of 
detail.' 

Li   conclusion,  1  taa.>j  \»  ^Tm\\Xft^  \» 


212 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [g*8.viLMA«cHW,iwL 


remark  that^  as  Mb.  Marshall  has  referred 
to  the  defence  of  Cremona,  in  the  winter  of 
1702,  by  the  immortal  Brigade  (only  the  i-egi- 
raents,  by  the  way,  of  Dillon  and  Burke  were 
engaged),  perhaps  the  following  lines  from 
Dr.  A.  Conan  Doyle's  *  Cremona,nn  his  really 
charming  *  Songs  of  Action  '  (London,  Smith, 
Elder  A  Co.,  1898),  will  not  be  inappropriate 
on  the  present  occasion  :— 

Major  Dan  O'Mahony  is  in  the  barrack  B(iuare, 
Ana  just  six  hundred  Irish  lads  are  waiting  for  him 
there  ; 

iSays  he,  "  Come  in  your  shirt, 

And  you  won't  take  any  hurt, 
For  the  morning  air  is  pleasant  in  Cremona.'' 

All  the  weary  day  the  German  stormers  came. 

All  the  weary  day  they  were  faced  by  fire  and  flame : 

They  have  filled  the  ditch  with  dead, 

And  the  river 's  runnin^c  red  ; 
But  they  cannot  win  the  gateway  of  Cremona. 

Just  two  hundred  Irish  lads  are  shouting  on  the 

wall ; 
Four  hundred  are  lyins  who  can  hear  no  slogan  call ; 

But  what 's  the  odds  of  that, 

For  it 's  all  the  same  to  Pat 
If  he  pays  his  debt  in  Dublin  or  Cremona. 

Says  Greneral  de  Vaudray,  "  You  Ve  done  a  soldier's 

work ! 
And  every  tongue  in  France  shall  talk  of  Dillon  and 
of  Burke ! 
Ask  what  you  will  this  day, 
And  be  it  what  it  may, 
It  is  granted  to  the  heroes  of  Cremona." 

"Why,  then,"  says  Dan  O'Mahony,  "one  favour 

we  entreat): 
We  were  called  a  little  early,  and  our  toilet 's  not 
complete. 
We've  no  quarrel  with  the  shirt, 
But  the  breeches  wouldn't  hurt. 
For  the  evening  air  is  chilly  in  Cremona.' 

Henry  Gerald  Hope. 
119.  Elms  Road,  Clapham,  S.W. 

Abraham  Hay  ward,  in  his  essay  entitled 
*  Pearls  and  Mock  Pearls  of  History,'  quotes 
from  a  letter  written  by  Lord  Charles  Hay, 
in  which  Lord  Charles  said  that  when  he  was 
near  enough  to  the  enemy  to  be  heard,  he 
callefl  to  them  in  French  that  he  hoped  they 
would  stay  where  they  were  till  he  and  his 
men  came  up,  and  not  run  away  as  they  had 
done  at  Dettingen  two  years  before ;  then, 
turning  to  his  troops,  he  bade  them  hurrah. 
Doubtless  Voltaire's  informant  thought  this 
address  too  sarcastic,  and  gave  it  a  more 
courtly  turn.  It  has  been  said  that  Ligonier  s 
division,  which  Lord  Charles  headwl,  was 
driven  back,  not  by  French  artillery,  but  by 
Irish  musketrv.  However,  every  one  will 
believe  as  he  thinks  proper.  M.  N.  G. 

Mr.  Marshall  may  be  interested  to  learn 

that  Dr.  Conan  Doyle  delivered  a  lecture  to 

PA^  Jriab  I4terary  Society^  aboi^t  three  years 


ago,  at  the  Society  of  Arts,  Adelphi,  on  ^The 
Irish  Brigade,'  in  the  compilation  of  which 
he  used  the  fruit  of  much  recent  research. 
He  said  he  hoped  shortly  to  embody  it  in  a 
book.  Any  one  acquainted  with  this  author's 
writings  in  fiction  or  history  would  conclude 
that  no  better  qualified  person  could  under- 
take such  a  duty.  J.  8.  C. 

There  is  a  good  account  of  this  act  of 
gallantry  at  the  battle  of  Fontenoy,  and  of 
the  battle  itself  in  1745-'Suppo8inR  a  work 
of  fiction  to  be  admissible  as  e\*iaence— in 
*  L.  S.  D. ;  or.  Treasure  Trove,'  by  Samud 
Lover,  published  in  1844.  The  novel  is  illus- 
trated by  the  author,  and  one  engraving 
depicts  Marshal  Saxe  carried  on  a  litter  at 
Fontenoy  on  the  shoulders  of  his  soldiers, 
as  the  Black  Prince  was  at  the  sack  of 
Limoges  in  1371.  The  great  French  general 
Marshal  Saxe  is  represented  in  the  story  m 
a  very  brave  man,  but  one  of  licentious 
habits,  and  the  scene  of  it  is  laid  parUyin 
Ireland  and  partly  on  the  Continent.  The 
Irish  Brigade,  of  course,  figures  in  the  story, 
which  brings  in  the  rebellion  of  1745. 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 

Newbourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

Inoculation  (9"^  S.  vii.  108).— The  practice 
of  inoculating  smallpox  is  very  old  and  was 
introduced  into  England  from  the  East.  It 
was  first  described  in  English  by  Kennedy  in 
his  *  Essay  on  External  Remedies,'  p.  153 
(London,  1715),  in  which  he  was  rather  against 
the  practice.  An  account  of  it  as  carried  out 
among  the  Turks  was  communicated  to  the 
Royal  Society  by  Woodward,  and  appears  in 
the  Transactions,  vol.  xxix.,  1717.  As  is  well 
known.  Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu  was 
the  first  who  persuaded  the  profession  in 
England  to  adopt  it.  She  was  inoculated  in 
1717,  and  the  practice  was  employed  for  th^ 
first  time  in  England  in  1721.  Amidst  much, 
controversy  it  became  more  general.  In  1754 
it  was  fairly  established,  the  movement  beinz 
greatly  strengthened,  partly  by  the  royal 
children  being  inoculates]  in  that  year,  and 
partly  by  the  declaration  of  the  College  of 
Physicians  :— 

*'The  College,  having  been  informed  that  false 
re}^>ort8  concerning  the  auccess  of  inoculation  in 
England  have  been  published  in  foreign  countriei, 
think  proper  to  declare  their  sentiments  in  the  fol* 
lowing  manner,  viz. :  That  the  argrumenta  which. 
at  the  commencement  of  this  practice,  were  urged 
against  it  have  been  refuted  by  experience  ;  that  it 
is  now  held  by  the  English  in  greater  esteem,  and 
practised  among  them  more  extensively  than  ever 
It  was  before ;  and  that  the  College  thinks  it  to  be 
highly  salutary  to  the  human  race." 

^     lli  ^\>^}tv^«^»^  \bi^  CU^tOQA  was  of  gTMt 


fl*S.VIL  March  16. 1901.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


213 


antiauity  ;  it  was  called  '*  buying  the  small- 
pox. It  was  vaccination  that  was  introduced 
by  Jenner,  t.0.,  inoculation  with  cowpox, 
which  has  entirely  replaced  the  older  small- 
pox inoculation. 

For  further  information  M.  may  refer  to 
Crookshank's  *  History  and  Pathology  of 
Vaccination,'  vol.  i.,  1889. 

W.  R.  B.  Prideaux. 

Royal  College  of  Physicians. 

[Many  other  replies  received.] 

**  Curt  ANA  "(O'**  S.  vii.  187).— At  the  corona- 
tion of  Her  late  Majesty  in  1838  the  Sword  of 
State  was  carried  oy  Viscount  MellK)urne  ; 
the  Cartana,   or  Sword  of   Mercy,  by  the 
Duke  of  Devonshire  ;  the  pointed  Sword  of 
Spiritual  Justice  (or  "  second  sword  ")  by  the 
Dake  of  Sutherland  ;  and  the  p>ointea  Sword 
of  Temporal  Justice  (or  "  third  sword  ")  by 
the  (then)  Marquess  of  Westminster.    The 
(}urtana  was  the  first  sword.    The  Sword  of 
State  was  offered  by  Her  Majesty  on   the 
altar,  and  was  subsequently  "redeemed  for 
one  hundred    shillings    by    Viscount    Mel- 
bourne "    At  one  of  the  earlier  coronations 
—I  think  that  of  William  III.— the  hundred 
shillings  were  overlooked,  and,  as  every  one 
vragin  ceremonial  dress,  were  not  forthcoming 
for  some  time,  a  messenger  having  to  be  dis- 
patched   for    them    before  the  service  was 
proceeded  with.  H.  B. 

SUWARROFF  ANI>  MaSKENA  (9**»  S.    vii.    108, 

192):— **Non  tutti — ma  Huona  parte  "is  also 
Riven  by  Story  in  his '  Roba  di  Roma '  (edition 
of  18W,  p.  212),  where  it  is  followed  by  another 
^*^Q8tic  pasquinade  on  the  French,  at'that  time 
Plonderingltaly— 

In  tempi  men  le^^adri  e  piu  feroci 
8'  appicavano  i  ladri  in  ru  le  cn>ci ; 
In  tempi  men  feroci  e  piii  le^iadri 
8'appicano  le  croci  in  aw  i  ladri. 
)j||^ times  less  pleasant,  more  fierce,  of  old 
Utt  thieves  were  hung  u^wn  the  cross,  we*rc  told  ; 
I  It  times  less  fierce,  more  pleasant,  to-day, 
^P'iswi  are  bnng  upon  the  thieves,  they  say- 
alluding  to  the  Jjegion  of  Honour  instituted 
a'jout  that  time.  R.  ii. 

tpton. 

Welsh  Manuscrii»t  Pedkjrees  (9»''  S.  iv. 
*12,  4a3  ;  v.  109,  358  ;  vii.  131).— It  is  some- 
what disconcerting  to  find  a  corresjwndent 
?i'^-  &  Q-'  writing  that "  the  sooner  modern 
♦jelih  is  forgotten  the  better."  This  sort 
01  obscurantism  ill  becomes  a  goiitlenmn 
Jho professes  to  be  devoted  to  "old  Welsh." 
He  ought  to  know  that  modern  spoken 
^'oota  are  the  only  key  to  ancient  literary 
^ipUkges.  As  an  Englishman  who  has 
•«iuire4  both  old  and  modern  Welsh,  and 


knows  the  value  of  both,  I  protest  af|;ainst 
Mr.  Pym  Veatman's  dictum.  If  he  is  not 
forgotten  till  "  modern  Welsh  "  is,  he  will  be 
fortunate.  John  Hobson  Matthews. 

Town  Hall,  Cardiff. 

Charles  Lamb  and  'The  Champion'  (9"' 
S  vi.  442;  vii.  12,  131).— Your  correspondent 
J.  A.  R.  is  of  opinion  that  further  evidence  is 
needled  before  tlie  iinesprintecl  in  the  *  Poetical 
Recreations  of  the  Cnampion,'  which  are 
subscnbed  with  the  initials  "  M.  L.,"  can  be 
accepte<l  a.s  the  composition  of  Mary  Lamb. 
Certainty  on  this  point  is  doubtless  im- 
possible in  the  absence  of  the  original  manu- 
script, but  I  submit  that  internal  evidence  is 
strongly  in  favour  of  my  conclusion.  This 
opinion  is  shared  by  a  literary  correspondent, 
who  is  one  of  the  first  authonties  on  Lamb  in 
England,  and  who,  after  consulting  the  ori- 
ginal files  of  the  Chnmpian  in  the  Newspaoer 
Room  in  the  British  Museum,  informs  me  that 
in  the  Saturday  edition  of  that  paper,  which 
first  printed  tlie  *  Lady's  Sapphics,'  the  lines 
are  signed  **  M.  S."  On  the  next  daj',  how- 
ever, the  initials  wei-e  alteretl  to  "  M.  L.,"  and 
my  friend  arlds,  **  One  can  see  Lamb  liurrying 
round  to  ThelwalFs  office  to  put  the  matter 
right." 

I  regret  that  I  overlooked  the  fact  that  the 
epigrams  were  reprinted  in  Mr.  Percy  Fitz- 
gerald's edition  of  Lamb.  Perhaps  J.  A.  R. 
may  be  able  to  say  whether  the  reprint  was 
made  direct  from  the  Champion  or  from 
the  *  Poetical  Recreations.*  A  criterion  may 
be  found  in  the  apparent  fact  that  Thel- 
wall  in  reprinting  *Tne  Unbeloved  '  drt)pped 
out  a  line  of  the  original.  Reing  at  present 
abroad,  I  am  unable  to  verify  this  circum- 
stance. 

My  friend  further  informs  me  that  the 
Latin  verse**  to  Haydn  were  signed  "Carl- 
agnulus,*'  and  thrown  <)|)en  to  all  readers  as 
an  exercise  in  translation.  This  seems  to 
have  been  an  early  example  of  the  **  Literary 
Compi^tition ''  which,  between  Saturday  and 
Tuesday,  stimulates  so  many  active  brains  in 
these  busy  times.  But  in  the  case  of  the 
ijhamfiinn  it  was  a  failure,  for  when  next 
week  came  round,  only  one  version  had 
tuined  up,  an«J  that  was  signed  "  C.  L." 
Perhaps  tlie  attraction  of  "the  guinea's 
stamp"  was  wanting.        \V,  F.  Prideaux. 

Davos-Platz. 

The  Ac.\(.'Ia  in  Freemasonry  (O*^*'  S.  vii.  9, 
112). — Apart  from  any  special  craft  signi- 
ficance, your  correspondent  will  find  that  in 
ancient  Egypt  the  acacia  tree  is  connected 
with  the  doctrines  of  th^  \twwvoxV«^\VJ  ^\  "Ocv^ 
soul,  reaurrecUQn,  and  i^tYva^^  xotvrw^^^\^^> 


214 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [»«» 8.  vil  maboh  ii 


In   the  atory  of  Anpu  and   Bata  (Flioders 
Petri© s    'Egyptian    Tales,*    Second     Series, 

&p.  48-57)  the  acacia  tree  is  clearly  the  link 
B tureen  a  deceatfed  body  and  itj»  soul    The 
passage  runs  :— 

'^And  thb  ia  wh&t  sb&ll  Qome  to  pass,  Ihat  I 
draw  t>ut  my  soul,  and  I  eh  all  put  it  upon  the  tQ|> 
of  the  flowera  of  the  acacia^  and  when  the  acocidi 
is  cat  down  or  faUa,,,  ...*' 

One  of  the  vei^ions  ef  the  legend  of  I«ia 
and  Osiris  mentions  that  at  each  f^pot  ^^hei-e 
the  former  interred  a  limb  of  Osiris^  .she 
placed  a  sprig  of  acacia  to  mark  it.  Thin 
talliea  with  the  reference  given  by  your  corre- 
spondent Gnomon.  I  regret  that  I  cannot 
Jay  my  hand  on  the  exact  reference.  Perhaps 
one  of  your  correspondentiJ  can  help  me. 

Red  CRoas. 

Movable  Stocks  (9^^  S,  vi,  405  ■  vii.  U, 
US),— 'Two  tipright  atones,  with  holes  which 
were  evidently  used  for  the  insertion  of  stocks, 
will  be  found  by  the  roaflHide  of  a  village 
not  far  from  Buxton.  I  was  unable  to  obtain 
the  name  of  this  place.      Andekw  Oliveh. 

A  very  interesting  account  of  a  pair  of 
these  now  in  use  in  India  by  an  English 
magistrate  is  to  be  found  in  a  very  recent 
number  of  Tt^tk^  with  appropriate  fulmina- 
tions  against  the  practice, 

EuwARD  Heeon^Ajllek. 

Flogging  at  the  Caet  Tail  (9**'  S,  vii.  28, 
]  r^S), — A  later  example  of  this  mode  of  punish- 
ment is  recorded  in  'Revelations  of  Prison 
Life,'  by  CoL  Chesterton  (second  edition, 
p.  135),  He  was  appointed  Governor  of  Cold- 
oath  Fields  Prison  m  18^9,  and,  as  one  of  his 
duties,  had  to  attend  personally  to  those  who 
were  sentenced  to  be  whipped  in  public.  He 
"had  not  been  two  ye^rs  in  office ''  when  he 
received  a  warrant  that  he  "  should  cause  '*  a 
criminal  convicted  of  rob}>ery  "  to  be  publicly 
whipped  for  the  space  of  one  hundred  yards/' 
and  he  gives  a  j^raphic  description  of  the 
whole  of  the  proceedings.  The  man  was 
'*  made  fast  by  his  wristi  to  the  cart's  tail," 
and  the  cat  was  admintstorpfl  by  the  public 
executioner  Thi«  took  pi  ace  eilht^r  iii  IHZO 
or  the  following  year. 

T.  N.  BRUSHFIEtU,  M,D. 

I  came  across  the  following  in  Henry 
Vizetellys  *  Glances  Back  through  Seventy 
Years,*  vol  i,  p.  &.  Henry  Vize telly  was  biirn 
in  1B20,  and  tiie  few  words  which  I  quote 
refer  to  hia  youthful  days,  1853-9  :— 

'*  Oulpritfl  gUtUy  of  petty  thefts  frani  abopkee|>ers. 

whic'h  a  few  y^&ra  iircvioimly  had  mnkeii  as  cnpit-al 

offences,  w^re  then  fre^iuantly  |>uni«ihed  with  the 

JAsht  ABa  I  ivcoU&at  seeing  one  ot  these  delmquents 

whipped  At  &  €Att-B  fcaij,  under  a  broiliug  «uq,  along 


the  diwty  road  between  Ken ninffton  Turn 
the  Elephant  and  Caatle  at  Newlngton, 
Apiration  Btreamiug  down  the  pariah  co 
face  9M  he  admiQittered  the  regulation 
The»e  public  flogging*  were  of  frequent  oc 
in  the  ijondon  anburba,  and  were  only  at 
after  the  Dews|ianera  had  protested  enei 
aftainat  iuch  brutalizing  exhibitioua,'' 

Hekbeet  B.  Cla 
3B,  Renfrew  Road,  Lower  Kennington  \a 

The  following,  drawn  from  the  Leea 
ligm^^r  of  23  February,  1801, 1  ihial 
case  referred  to  by  J.  \V.  W* : — 

'"  At  Wakciield  Quarter  Sessions  Wm. 
wan  ordered  to  be  puhUcly  whipped  at  Hi 
Saturday  afternoon,  February  iM,  for  hav 
about  the  town  of  Halifax  and  its  rieigbl 
pretending  to  be  deaf  and  durab^  and  p 
palunatry  and  fortune- tell Lng,'' 

In  the  same  issue  of  this  journal  i1 
stated  that  at  Sheffield  a  man  way  ] 
whipped  for  deserting  his  wife  and 
and  leaving  them  chargeable  to  th 
funds.  William  Andi 

Royal  Institution,  Hull- 

"Houen"  and  **Succedai*eum"(9i 
\A^).-~Ittmen  is  an  unusual  spelling 
ivord  "row en,"  a  not  uncommon  Kast. 
term  for  the  aftermath  or  after  gras^  o 
meadows.  So  the  word  is  explai 
Muors  *  Suffolk  Words'  (1823).  *^] 
also  occurs  in  Tusser^s  ^  Husband i 
1580);  see  Glossary  to  the  E.D.S, 
(1878).  The  word  also  occurs  in  tl 
"  rawing ''  in  Tusser»  with  which  comf 
'  Promptoriuuj '  form  **  raweyne/'  In 
'Latin  Dictionary'  J1699)  I  find  " 
Paseuum  stifnda  et  kerbu  voluntariis 
iitmJ'  In  Richardson's  *  Dictionary  '  (€ 
the  follow^ing  is  cited  from  Holland's 
bk.  xviLi.  c.  '2S :  "The  rowen  grasse  af t4 
commeth  up  so  thick e  and  nigh  for 
and  forrage,  that  ityeeldetb  asgreata 
as  the  crops  of  hay  before."  The  Lat 
succedantum  means  a  substitute^  a  mf 
in  default  of  the  proper  thing.  For  it 
rence  in  English  literature  see  'Th 
ford  Dictionary  '  (1892),  where  the  ns< 
sv  uifl  is  well  illustrated  by  many  quot 
A,  L,  AIai 

Oxford. 

Hoiien  or  rmpen  is  "a  term  ma^le  u* 
Kignify  attci*-giusis  or  the  hay  ruad 
this  sort  of  grass"  (lUWs  *Uyclop{etl 
*Kouen,'  which  your  correspondent  u 
instructive),  Halliwell  in  his  *  Diet 
notices  roiveujif  after-grass,  as  a  Suffwlli 
but  rowsn  must  hav(5  b<M?n  widely  > 
outside  the  "silly  county/*  for  it  is 
in  Bailey's  and  Johnson's  Engliah  i 


y^  8.  VIL  March  16, 1901.]     NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


215 


as  in  CoWs  and  Littleton's  EDglish-Latin 
dictionaries.  Johnson's  reference  to  Tusser, 
who  wrote  his  book  of  husbandry  in  East 
Anglia,  is  chap,  xlvii.  stanza  25.  As  to  sue- 
cedaneiMfi.  a  substitute,  a  word  used  by  the 
ancient  Latin  jurists  and  now  naturalized 
among  as,  it  was  sufficiently  common  in 
Arthur  Young's  days  to  find  a  place  in 
Johnson's  dictionary,  where  it  is  defined  as 
'^that  which  is  put  to  serve  for  something 
else";  but  it  was  certainlv  not  a  word  that 
the  ordinary  farmer  woula  understand. 

F.  Adams. 
115,  Albany  Road,  CamberwelL 

The  inference  is  that  the  grass  was  to  be 
reserved  and  the  sheep  fed  on  turnips,  after 
which  the  grass  would  prove  a  good  suostitute 
or  tuccedaneum.  "  Rouen  "  or  "  roan  "  is  whin, 
gorse.  or  furze.    Halli  well  says  "  Roan  "  means 

1.  The  town  of  Rouen.  2.  A  clump  of  whins." 
See  also  'Winter  Food  for  Cattle,'  'N.  &  Q.,' 
8"»S.  xi.  406.  The  Suffolk  word  "rowens^' 
means  after-grass,  or  the  second  crop  of  hay. 
Vide  fialliwelL  Asthub  Mayall. 

Motto  for  Laundry  Porch  (9"»  S.  vii. 

68|    176).  —  I    offer    with    some    confidence 

Oeorgic  i.  387  :— 

£t  studio  incassnm  videas  gesture  lavandL 

(Jnecuwm,  for  the  labour  is  of  weekly  renewal.) 

R.  D.  Blackmore  translates  :— 

Then  deeper  still  into  the  breakers  dash, 
And  frolic  in  extravagance  of  splash. 

He  has  a  better  rendering  in  one  of  his 
early  novels.    Where  ?      A.  O.  Prickard. 

Malt  and  Hop  Substitdtes  (9**»  S.  vii. 
lW).^Baffage  means  rubbish  (see  the  *H.KD.,' 
art.  *  Baggage ').  Qascoigne  probablv  alludes 
to  ^  the  wicked  weed  called  hops,  against 
which  public  opinion  ran  hi^h.  Andrew 
Boorde  in  1542  notices,  in  his  'Dyetary' 
(x.  256X  the  consumption  of  hopped  beer  **  to 
the  detryment  of  manv  Englysshe  men"; 
and  the  old  song  of  the  '  Lx-ale-tation  of 
Ale '  expresses  the  sentiment  very  strongly  : 

The  ho 
Broiiffht  over  against  law,  and  here  set  to  sale. 


The  hop  'a  but  a  weed 

ouffht  over  against  law,  and  nei 

Woold  the  law  were  renewed,  and  no  more  beer 


brow'd. 
Bat  Beer  hath  its  name,  'cauae  it  brings  to  the 

bier 

And  therefore  (if  ancient  records  do  not  fail) 

He  that  first  brewed  the  hop  was  rewarded  with  a 

Anofonnd  his  Beer  far  wore  bitter  than  Ale. 
This   song   is   quoted   more   at   length   in 
Soathey's  '  Commonplace  Book,'  first  series. 

F.  Adams. 

The  word  boffoge  does  not  mean  some  special 
ingredient  naed  by  brewers  for  the  adultera- 


tion of  beer,  but  any  rubbish  used  as  a  sub> 
stitute  for  the  proper  thing.  The  word  is 
explained  under  tne  article  'Baggage,'  in 
•N.E.D.'  and  *E.D.D.'  These  useful  works 
of  reference  seem  to  be  very  generally  ignored 
by  the  majority  of   the  correspondents  of 

N.  (&  Q.'  who  make  inquiries   about  the 
meaning  of  English  words. 

A.  L.  Mayhbw. 

Oxford. 

The  Dbesden  Amen  (9"»  S.  vii.  87,  171).— 
The  word  "  amen  "  sung  to  the  first  five  notes 
of  the  ascending  major  diatonic  scale  is  com- 
monly known  to  Church  musicians  as  the 
Dresaen  Amen.  Why  ?  How  was  it  identified 
with  Dresden  ?  Was  it  always  an  amen,  or 
was  it  a  typical  cadence  borrowed  from  a 
more  extended  composition  1  Was  it  used  as 
an  amen  in  Catholic  or  in  Lutheran  services  f 
Was  it  only  a  final  amen,  or  was  it  used 
throughout  the  service?  I  meant  all  this 
to  be  understood  when  I  wrote,  "Will  any 
one  oblige  me  with  its  history  ?"  Mr.  Abthub 
Matall  may,  if  he  please,  find  the  musical 
notes  in  Dr.  Charles  W.  Pearce's  Christmas 
Cantata  (at  the  end  of  the  third  number),  or 
as  No.  650  of  the  (Presbyterian)  Church 
Hymnary,  edited  by  Sir  John  Stainer. 

S.  G.  OULD. 

The  Dresden  Amen  is  the  beautiful  musical 

Ehrase  in  constant  use  in  the  Court  Church, 
Dresden.  It  was  much  admired  by  Mendels- 
sohn, who  introduced  it  in  his  *  Reformation ' 
Symphony^  and  also  by  Wagner,  who  quoted 
it  in  his  music-drama  *  Parsital.'  It  was 
composed  by  Johanu  Gottlieb  Naumann,  a 
well-known  Dresden  composer,  who  was  bom 
in  1741  and  died  in  1801. 

William  H.  Cumminos. 

"Pbkidot,"    "Perited,"    or     **Piudod" 

i9**»  S.  vi.  348,  414j.— Having  looked  up  the 
ive  articles  referred  to  by  Mr  Coleman, 
I  am  moved  to  make  corrections  as  to  an 
important  mistake  in  two  of  them  (8^  S. 
i.  180,  296),  where  the  peridot  is  said  to 
be  ''a  kind  of  emerald"  and  ''distinguished 
from  the  emerald  or  beryl  by  not  containing 
glucina." 

Now,  far  from  that  being  so,  the  peridot  or 
chrysolite  has  nothing  in  common  with  an 
emerald  whatsoever,  beyond  their  being  both 
silicates.  Speaking  from  the  jeweller's  point 
of  view,  the  emerald  is  a  first-class  precious 
stone,  the  jxsridot  a  fourth-class  one ;  and, 
from  the  mineralogist's,  neither  crvstalliza- 
tion,  composition,  nor  matrix  is  the  same. 
What  your  correspondent  may  have  been 
thinking:  of  is  the  "paricito^"  wa.  «iLtc«««3« 
1  rare  wd  vsX^aAltAib  uXati^  V^qs^^  \sl  ^scs&ti^^ 


216 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9«»8.vilma«oh 


mines.  Here  the  crj^stallization  and  matrix 
ar6  ideaticat ;  but  it  la  not  tempting  to 
the  eyea,  being  of  a  dun  colour,  without 
brilliancy  or  transparency,  though  some 
small  apecimena  have  been  found  which 
resanable  an  opaaue  cairngorm. 

There  h  auotner  strange  mistake  about 
emerald%_  viz.,  calling  them  Peruvian.  Now, 
there  neither  are,  nor  ever  were,  emerald 
mines  io  Peru,  the  only  known  mines  pro- 
ducing—or which  ever  have  produced— really 
fine  emeralds  being  those  of  Muzo  and 
Somondoco,  near  Bogotd  in  Colombia  (see 
specimens  in  Kat  Hist  Museum).  I  ran 
.  tnis  misnomer  to  earth  once,  after  con^sider- 
able  trouble  (since  one  person  copies  from 
another),  when  I  was  writing  a  paper  on 
emeralds  (which  I  hope  to  publish). 

In  his  *  Mineralogy  '  I  found  Phillips  spoke 
of  Bogota  as  being  "in  Poru"(!).  He  then 
cheerfully  proceeds  to  class  these  stones  as 
"Peruvian  emeralds/'  Ib^gu£ 

CoLUitBAaLA,  Ahctekt  Dove  oe  PiaEON 
C0TE3  (9th  s^  yi  389^  47Q  .  yJL  15,  116).— Two 
other  instancei  mav  be  named— one  at  Lady 
Place,  Hurley  (of  which  a  picture  is  given  in 
Jesse's  '  Favourite  Haunts'), and  one  at  Burn- 
ham  Abbey,  Bucks,  K  B. 

Upton* 

Yeoman fiY  Recobds  (9**"  S,  vi.  269,  397  j 
vii,  12,  34). — ^The  following  volumes  of  yeo- 
manry records  are  included  in  the  library  of 
the  Royal  United  Service  Institution,  accord- 
ing to  the  full  catalogue  compiled  in  1896  :— 

Qu^n*«  Own  Royal  Regiment  of  StaSbrdshire 
Yeomanry.  By  P,  G.  Webster.  Svo.  Lichfield, 
1870. 

ffistorical  R&card  of  the  Shropshire  Yeoniarvry 
Cavalry.  Compiled  by  CoL  WiDjcfield.  Svo.  Sbrews- 
biiry,  1888. 

lat  West  York  Kegiment  of  Yeorjumry  Cavalry : 
ita  Formation,  &c.  By  W.  Sheardown.  Svo.  Don^ 
cftBter,  1^2. 

North  Somepaet  Regimept  of  Yeomanry  Cavalry. 
8va,    Bath,  1850. 

_  There  is  ako  a  threepenny  monthly  maga- 
line  entitled  the  Veojuanfy  Mecord^  pubJiabed 
by  Mr.  C,  M,  Wood  at  the  Clock  House, 
Arundel  Street,  Strand,  W.C. 

G.  Yarrow  Baldook,  Major. 
At  intervals  during  1871-2  Mr  W.  Shear* 
down  contributed   to  the  Poncaster  GazttU 
some  yeomanry  records^  which   were  after- 
wards  isijued    in    pamphlet    form,   entitled 
*  The  1st  West  Yorkahire  Regiment  of  Yeo- 
manry Cavalry  ;  it**  Formation  and  Services  ; 
with   Brief  Notices  of  other  Regiments  of 
West    Riding    Volunteer    Cavalry.*      What 
should  aha  Be  useful  to  those  intereated  la 
msetted,  a  fcabte  oi  thirty  rogimenta  oi  ^eo- 


manry  in  twenty-eight  counties,  in 

much  information  appears  to  be  ffiv 
pamphlet  as  in  volumes  of  a  much  i 
tentioua  get-up.  Kichaeb  L 

UrmBtotL 

Ought  not  the  following  volun 
included  in  this  listl  Its  title-page 
"  Memoranda  |  relative  to  the  I  Wor* 
Yeomanry  Cavalry,  f  now  the  Queen's  0» 
by  f  Other  Archer,  6th  Earl  of  Plymouth 
I  Qow  under  the  command  of  j  Lieat, 
Hon.  Robert  Henry  Clive,  M.P.  j  Loud 
Pp.  viil-lL>4(9m,  bySiitt.). 

J.  B.  Wimjj 

Frakcib  Thedgmortok  (9^  S.  V 
There  waa  a  victim  of  tbijs  name 
in  1583-4 ;   to  all  appearance  he  w 
of  the  notorious  recuiant  Sir  Geor 
wife  namefl  Katherine  Vaux.     In 
the  Lady  Throgmorten  whom  be  cal 
sister"  would  oe  Anne  Carew,  wi 
brother,  Sir  Nicholas  of  Paulerapi 
the  "lady  Scidmore"  might  have  \ 
Throgmorton    of   Corse,    who    mai 
James  Scudamorej  a  noted  person  n 
by  Spenser,  and  father  to  the  firat  * 
so  a  distant  cougin  to  Francis  Thrc 
This  seems  plausible  ;  but  there 
others  so  named  then  living.     Th 
specified  would  be  uncle  to  Elizab 
of   Sir   Walter    Raleigh,    but   nevi 
"'Lady    Throgmorton,     thougli   a 
honour  to  the  queen.  A« 

Highbury,  N, 

"Skilly"  {9*^  8.  vi.  306,  378,  3: 
may  trust  my  memory,  one  stanxa  < 
entitled  'The  County  Jail,'  which 
heard  on  board  ship  forty  years  ag 
worded  i — 

Then  each  went  marching  round  the 

To  get  hia  county  allowance  of  grab  ; 

We  blowed  our  mm  out  like  a  sail 

With  skilly  and  whack  in  county  jail 

Whacky  I  think,  means  dry  bread, 

prison  luxury;     I  am  accustomed  ti 

skinmf gaiety  with   the  meaning   of 

thin,  applied  to  a  pennon,  and  ^ki 

that  of  scanty— e.jy.j  "  She  is  a  skin 

"  What  a  skinny  penn'orth  T'      F.  . 

Skilly ^^killagalttQT&kiUigoltt  are  n 
prison  and  workhouse  words.  The 
were»  much  used  also  by  sailors, 
poor  broth  served  to  prisoners  it 
also  oatmeal  and  water  in  which  i 
been  boiled.  Hence  gkillygalee  or  b 
drink  mad©  with  oatmeal  and  su 
served  to  seamen  in  lieu  of  cocoe 
a^  \ft\4*  I'a  sailors*  slanp  skillet - 
[  cooV.    \%  n^V  ikvlUt  TSi»T^\^ieiV^  ta  h. 


s»&yiLMABaiii6.igoi.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


217 


derived  from  0*F,  egcudiett€=&  little  platter, 
than  from  Schdkf  There  is  also  a  North- 
Country  word  skile^  which  may  throw 
light  on  the  aubject  SkUe,  (I)  verb^to 
separate;  (2)  Biibs.,an  iron  aliceforakimmiag 
the  fat  off  broth.  May  not  this  word  be  a 
doe  to  the  whole  thing?  s^killy  meaDing 
anything  poor  from  which  the  best  has  been 
taken,  separated,  or  "  skimmed  "—some- 
thing, in  tact,  of  the  strength  and  quality 
of  what  in  Notts  i«  called  "  huaband*a  tea." 

I  am  much  interested  in  ikiUy-an-jPoch 
1  have  only  beard  it  used  once  in  my  life,  and 
that  was  twenty -five  years  ago  in  Gtoucester- 
ahire,  A  country  servant-girl,  who  certainly 
had  oever  been  out  of  the  county,  applied 
it  to  a  skim  cheese,  which  ie  commonly  called 
i  tkim  DkL  Skilly-an-fjaack  (alias  skilly -^n- 
¥hat;k)  aeeras^  therefore*  not  to  be  a  Lan- 
cfcihir©  dialect  expression  only,  as  A.  M. 
infers.  Hees  Keeke. 

Goiforth,  Cumberland. 

The  word  skill j/  seems  to  be  an  equivalent 

toaco/v— i.e.,  mean,  stingy,  shabby— so  applied 

to  a  thin  pottage.    See  skile  in  Halliwell,  and 

cL  the   greasy    Joan   who    keds    the    pot, 

Swedish  ikiijoj  to  divide,  which  is  the  basis 

of  our  word  shiiiing—Bo  something  divided, 

no  doubt  a  very  thin  coin  at  first    We  know^ 

^hat  our  silver  pennies  were  so  split  up  into 

nAjf pence  and  farthings,  and,  judging  from 

the  Scottish  currency,  where  one   shilling 

n^fikes  a  half-sovereign,  twenty  pence  being 

OI16  pound  Scots,  it  may  be  ansumed  that  the 

silver  penny  grew  into  a  nominal  sbillinp, 

"^ith  tne  surviving  idea  of  "division,"    To 

jhu  add  Swedish  skala^  to  peel,  for  scaiy^ 

Greek  tn^akkat.  A,  Hall. 

Ifplkpen,  CO.  Devon  (9^^  S.  vi.  409  ;  vii.  50, 
][13)l— I  am  at  a  loss  to  understand  how  Mr. 
Tboipe  has  arrived  at  the  meanings  of  the 
iriih  names  given  in  his  reply,  ante^  p.  50. 
The  following  are,  I  believe,  the  generally 
^«epted  meanings  and  derivations  of  the 
P^tteat  forms  :— 

MicGftrthy. — This  surname  is  derived  either 
™tt  earths  (—a  pillar)  or  from  eatAmch^  the 
pnitive  case  of  catkair  (=a  city).  If  the 
m^  is  the  correct  derivation  the  word 
''^tAnicA  would  denote  the  founder  of  a  city. 

M&edana  is  an  anglicized  form  of  Donoch, 
*hich  is  in  turn  derived  from  dom?ujck 
(jSund^y).  This  Donoch  was  the  ancestor 
^  the  MacDonough,  Lords  of  SHgo. 

Mabooy^CMahony,  MacMaboo^and  Mahon 
•J*  lU  derived  from  MatbghabhuinC  =  bearof 
*y  pliin),  *  ^^  of  Tnrlogh  MiSr,  monarch  of 
•D  htland,  1072-86. 

Hedy  ind  Hely  are  ^uglichGd  forms  of, 


OTi-Eiligh,  a  Leinster  sept  descended  from 
Eile  righ  dhearg  (eil^ik=U>  accuse),  or  Eile 
the  Red  King. 
Newry   was  formerly  known  as  Inbhar- 

cinn-tragha  (=the  yew  tree  at  the  head  of 
the  strand).  From  an  entry  in  the  *  Annals 
of  the  Four  ^faHte^s '  we  learn  that  the  town 
wa^  so  named  from  a  yew  tree  planted  by 
St,  Patrick.  The  entry  ia  as  follows  :^ 
**A.D,  1162.  The  monastery  of  the  monks  at 
lubhar-cinn-tragha  was  burnt,  with  all  its 
furniture  and  booka»  and  also  the  vew  which 
St,  Patrick  himjielf  had  planted.  lubhar- 
cinn-tragba  was  afterwards  shortened  to 
lubhar  (pronounced  Yure),  by  prefixing  the 
contracted  form  (n)  of  the  article  ait;  and  by 
the  operation  of  the  process,  adopted  after 
the  invasion,  of  endeavouring  to  write  Irish 
names  as  pronounced,  we  obtiun  the  present 
form. 

Nure,  a  shortened  form  of  Newry,  is 
another  example  of  the  anglicizing  pi-ocess 
of  writing  names  as  pronounced, 

I  propose  doling  witb  the  surnames 
Malony,  M*Beth,  and  Cassidy  on  a  future 
occasion  —  always  supposing  that  your 
columiTs  will  be  open  for  a  continuation  of 
the  discussion. 

The  foregoing  information  has  been  taken 
from  O'Hart's  'Irish  Pedigrees,'  Joyce's 
*  Irish  Names  of  Places '  and  *  Irish  Local 
Names  Explained,*  *  Irish  Family  Names*  (in 
vol.  Kxi.  of  Irish  Archieological  and  Celtic 
Society's  publications),  and  *  Annals  of  the 
Four  blasters,'  edited  by  J.  O' Donovan, 

Albert  Gough, 

Holywood,  CO.  Down. 

Reference  is  made  to  7^**  S.  iii»  96;  but  I 

can  scarcely  think  that  Dr.  Nbubaukk  should 
be  taken  seriously.  It  will  be  noted  that  he 
wafl  ridiculing  the  Anglo-Israel  mania,  and 
cited  a  few  impassible  etymons  by  way  of 
^Tduetio  rid  abfiurdiim.  True,  when  taken  up 
by  Truthy  he  stuck  to  his  guns,  in  order  to 
castigate  Mr.  Labouchere ;  but  I  take  it  as 
^*  all  in  fun/'  A.  H. 

Me.  Thorpe,  i-eplying  to  a  query  on  the 
etymology  of  the  above,  states  it  t-o  be 
Jewish,  and  incidentally  cites  several  Irish 
patronymics  as  having  been  first  given  by 
some  Jewish  employer,  my  own  (Molony) 
being,  according  to  him,  derived  from  Semitic 
Ifm,  an  inn.  Mr.  Platt  (ante^  p.  113)  very 
properly  points  out  that  such  an  etymology 
tor  thtwe  Irish  oania^  could  only  be  sugge^t<jd 
by  one  unacquainted  with  tliem  in  their 
Gaelic  forms,  and  ss^yn  that  Molony  is  cie rived 
from  O'Maoi  Ko\n.  Co\i\d  W  \^  i&\^\^\\\^ 
it  for  Maloae  \     A.t  b.ii^  tbA/^  m'g  Baio^^  V% 


218 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [»*8.viLMABCHi6,i9ia. 


derived  from  O'Maol  Dhomnaigh,  the  deacen* 
daiats  of  Maol  Dhomnaigh^  a  man  who  was 
mnol^  tonsured  for  a  purpose,  saint,  or  insti- 
tution, which  in  thin  instance  was  dhomnaigh^ 
the  Ghurch=one  devoted  to  the  Church.  It 
appears  often  a«  Muldowney  in  the  State 
Papers,  Ump.  Elizabeth,  and  is  called  by  the 
Irish  peasantry  Mallowney  to  the  present 
day.  H.  Molony* 

HuiTSON  Family  (9^  S,  vii.  129).— A  family 
bearing  the  name  of  Huteson  existed  in  North 
Lincolnshire  doring  the  last  hundred  years. 
One  of  them,  Ann  Huteson,  was  married  at 
Whitton,  29  November,  1765,  to  Nathaniel 
Eftston  \  she  died  23  December,  1831,  aged 
eighty-six.  In  1664  one  Roger  Hutson^  of 
Plymouth,  was  master  of  the  ship  called  the 
Little  Hunter  (B,  Randolph,  *  Arch i pel ^o,' 
1R87*  p*  34).  Huitson  is  another  form  of 
Hewitson.  W.  U.  B, 

1  consider  this  merely  a  variant  of  He  wit- 
son,  a  common  North-Country  name,  and 
probably  of  Danish  origin. 

AJ.FKED  T,  CURWEN, 

"Twopenny  Tube"  (9**^  S.  vii.  29,  lie),— In 
'  San  Toy,*  a  piece  now  running  in  London, 
one  of  the  characters,  Li,  a  Cbtnatnan,  calk 
this  the  * '  t  wopenn  y  d  rai  o , "  Ib aou  fi, 

*'Caba"(9*^  S.  vii,  as\—MH.  Thornton  is 
probably  right  in  regarding  this  singular  as 
a  roal forma tiont  like  pea.  According  to  the 
sixth  edition  of  the  '  Dictionnaire  de  I'Aca- 
demie  Francaise^  (1335)  eaku  meant  only  a 
rush  basket  for  figs,  or  (in  fun)  an  old  carriage, 
Htapper'fl  exceUent  Dictionnaire  Sy noptique ' 
compares,  as  regards  etymology,  Spanish 
tapam^  capficho^  Portuguese  <^^^  h^t  prefers 
a  Latin  root  cga  from  mpert.  This  common 
peasants'  worn  r^ahat.  was  subjected  to  a 
fashionable  craste  in  the  early  part  of  the 
nineteenth  century*  I  extract  the  following 
from  Lady  Morgan's  '  The  Easter  Reeoss '  (in 
*  Dramatic  Scenes  from  Real  Life,'  voL  ii, 
p.  74,  London,  1833)  ;— 

Ltxdy  Alice  {lurimti^  to  Aky:<in(irin^).  Alex* 
andrine^  bring  mo  down  my  caha^  I  muBt  have 
oainething  to  toae  theaa  thiDK9  in. 

Afi^  DamcrtpaitJniH/iri  hf.r  ^cork}*  Af.oJlia^!  Have 
Srou  really  a  rafnu*  t  why,  1)e  Vii?ux  told  nm  thire 
waa  not  one  yet  in  England  ;  that  it  was  ouly  men- 
tioncd  in  the  laBt  Btvue  FashwnMe. 

Ladif  Alif^e.  Neitlier  there  m,  aave  and  ej^reiit 
mine*  It  was  uent  me  b^  that  dear  CVimtessc  ne 
Crover-iieur*  Ihrnbi  (dencnption  of  rahai*\.  "  Voili  ! 
votre  cabaa,  ch^r«  beile— mot  ditgraoieuit  k  i»ro* 
noncor,  maiJi  objeL  k  fairu  furaur,  icL  Je  voiis 
Fent'ow  en  p^iJlei  tress^  au  joar»  double  en  soie 
itwe,  moiriie.    Cest  tr^  simple  nmi»lmdvBl\ne\ite, 


Banqtiier)  k  ia  fille,  qui  vieot  d^^fiouMr  1e  Prince 
de  PotemklOT  ^tait  un  cah&a  en  r^iUe  de  cordonoet 
blanc*  ayant^  en  pla^  de  chaqtio  nmud,  de  la  maille, 
uuo  tourquoiae ;  rint^fieur  double  au  moire  bleu 
c^leate  ;  et  au  bout^  deux  auperbes  glands,  ni^fi|i|i 
de  or^pines  blancbes,  et  k  tilet  en  perlM*^ 

Would   not  a  complete   edition  of   L^dy 
Morgan's  works  now  be  worth  editinfff 

St.  FeUnbiug. 


Ptifillnuimi, 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  *c 
HUIgtU  of  the    Commonrtxalth    and    Proitctoraie^ 

m'^lim.    By  Samnel  Rawaoo  Gardin«r.  M,A. 

-Vol.  111.  im-iOSG^    (Longmana  4  Co.) 
Dk-  GAni>t^TiR  had  indulged  at  one  time  in  the 
hope  that  tbe  tblrd  volume  of  thia  portion  of  Ui 
great  work  would  cover  the  eventa  up  to  the  imtftl- 
Tatlon  of  Uiiver  CromwelU  Jo  i€o^.  in  Wo«tminat«i^= 
HalU  "under  tbe  provinionaof  the  *  HnmbiePetttioi^B 
and  Advice.'"    Instead  of  tbia,  it  carriea  Cromwal 
no  further,  as  regards  hia  con t mental  ]pK)Ucy,  thaa^ 
the  arranj^enient  with  Mazarin  for  the  eie^  mad  tb^^j 
aurrender  to  tbe  En^li^hof  Dunkirk,  then  m  ib«p<i^^ 
seaaion  of  Spain,   The  eventJ^  foreign  and  domesii^^ 
deatt  with  during  thia  period  are  too  numero^k^^a 
and    ]naT>ort4Lnt  to  admit  of  aummary  treAtmeti  .^m 
Under  tne  latter  head  they  comprise,  to  fip«ak  aan^a 
of  matters  of  primary  imf^Kirtaiice^  the  dtssolatic^^ 
of  the  Parliament  of  J 654,  the  eatabliahment  of  *^^^z 
Major^fenerabp  and  the  Cromwellian  setibtDis^^ 
of   Ireland ;    undor    the   former  the    min 
eTpeditiona  under  Fenn  and  Yenablee  to  ] 

and  Jamaica  31  i^ke^B  triumphain  theMedit#rL 

the  breach  with  Hpain,  Cromweira  defenoe  of  •'-^  \ 
ProtD«t&Dt  iotereat,  hla  eepooaal  of  tbe  cauae  of  I 

VandoiB,  and   hia  efforta  towards  eetahlialilq^^^ 
Proteataut   lea^e  with  himftelf  aa  ita  h«ML  ^ 

troublouB  time  in  all  senaea  it  waa  :  a  time  of  )^"3^ 
against  hia  life,  which  nothing  but  the  vigilMif^^*^^^ 
hia  i>oti<ie  defeated ;  of  wranfftes  with  hit  Pb— aHJl^- 
ment,  while  such  wm  allowed  to  exist ;  of  ref'va^/ 
on  the  part  of  those  with  nice  coDaeieaceat  ^wtft 
among  tlie  judgea,  to  carry  out  hia  deoiaiooi;    mad 
of  Gonatant  efforts  on  Cromweirt  p4Lrt  to  r 
the  persecuting  rage  of  his  frienda  and  to  i 
the  iseal  of  fanatioa   of   every  degree.     Of  _„ 
matters,  and  of  innumerable  others,  Dr.  Q§xdimr 
gives  an  account  the  lucidity  and  impartia^tf  ^ 
which  are  alike  conspicuoiiB.    Much  light  Jiasbsetfe 
caat  during    recent    years  upon  the  nertoni  «ic% 
events  with  which  he  deala..    3Jost  of  to  is  baa  bwitfB 
incorporated  into   his  volume,  nothing   giTiot  ^» 
better  idea  of  the  t borough neas  of  hia  work  taa^^ 
ibe  manner  in  which  recent  publications  have  \m^^ 
employed*    The  ai^pearaiicie  of  '  The  NarrattTs  op*^ 
(leneral  Venablea '  haa  enabled    him    to  givt  i^^ 
animated  account  of  the  terrible  mismanagsmsQ'^^ 
that  diatinguiahed  the  Woat    Indian   expeditioBi^    ' 
One  of  the  moat  interesting  |fr»rtlona  of  the  folaii^^ 
LJ^  that  which  deeoribea   the  di»runtion   betwtt^^ 
Cromwell  and  the  Parliament  of  1651.    The  dii|Hit^^ 
aprang  from  no  variance  on  matters  of  detail    V^ 
waa  not  even  a  dispoto  between  mitit«ry  and  dvu- 
go  ve  rnm  e  n  t.  It  arose  from  aatat«ti]iaiilike| 
by  f3ach  of  the  oon tending  parties  of  tJie  ( 


9»8.vilmaboh18.i»i.)    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


219 


Miuon  of  the  other.  Desiring  in  his  heart  to  defend 
the  Protectorate  hy  laws  andnot  by  arms,  Cromwell 
■till  found  military   despotism  thmst  npon  him. 
Cmmwell.  Dr.  Gardmer  says,  was,  in  truth,  "  the  heir 
and  sncceasor  of  Strafford— like  Strafford,  throwing 
himself  open  to  the  charge  of  apostasy,  and,  like 
Strafford,  shifting  his  instruments  and  nis  |)olitical 
combinations  for  the  sake  of  the  people,  whom  he 
aimed  at  governing  for  their  best  advantage."    A 
second  parallel,  which  has  often  previously  been 
iDstitnted,  between  Charles  I.  and  Cromwell,  when 
each  of  them  contended  against  the  same  antagonist, 
"a  Parliament  resolved  to  subject  all  other  institu- 
tions in  the  State  to  its  sole  will  and  pleasure,"  com- 
mends itself  to  him.    "  The  difference  between  the 
tiro  men  lay,  in  the  first  place,  in  the  support  given 
by  Charles  to  a  system  of  external  obeaience  and 
oonfonnity,  whereas  Oliver  strove  for  a  system  of 
the  utmost  practical  liberty  in  thought  and  belief ; 
and,  in  the  second  place,  in    Charles's  habit   of 
Alinginx  to  formsl  legality,  whilst  Oliver,  having  an 
army  at  his  back,  preferred  to  break  OY)enly  through 
the  meshes  of  the  law  when  they  entangled  his 
feet.     Charles,  when  necessity  arose  or  appeared 
to  arise,  fumbled  over  the  knot  of  his  destiny  in 
his  effort  to  unloose  it ;  Oliver  hacked  at  it  with 
his  sword."    The  saddest  chapter  in  the  book  is, 
tiatnrally,  that  on  the  Cromwellian  settlement  of 
rreland.     It  is  shown,  however,  that  this  was  in  its 
conception  due  to  the  Long  Parliament,  and  was 
«ketcned  out  before  Cromwell  was  in  a  position  to 
tuake  his  might  felt.    Parliament  it  was  which,  in 
1642.  decreed  the  confiscation  of  the  estates  of  the 
labels,    "setting   aside   from    the    forfeited   land 
2,500,000  acres  for  the  Adventurers  who  advanced 
inoney  for  the  reconquest  of  Ireland."    It  was  at 
C7romwe11*s  instigation  that  the  Act  for  the  satis- 
faction of  Adventurers  and  soldiers  was  passed, 
l>at  Cromwell   "had   not  sufficient  acquaintance 
-with  the  Irish  problem  to  treat  it  as  a  whole,  even 
fitim  the  English  point  of  view."    A  general  trans- 
plantation, the  effect  of  which  would  have  been  to 
crowd  a  verjr  large  majority  of  the  Irish  nation  into 
a  rocky  and  inhospitanle  district,  in  which  it  would 
he  impossible  for  it  to  find  adequate  sustenance, 
wan  feared.    After  long  hesitation  the  good  sense 
oi  Cromwell  perceived  that  the  scheme  was  im- 
practicable,   it  is  pleasant,  however,  to  turn  away 
from  a  record  of  folly  and  ineptitude.    How  recur- 
rent  are   conditions   is    more  than   once   shown. 
Speaking  of  the  time  when  courts  -  martial  were 
Attablished  for  the  puri>ose  of   trying  the    Irish 
rebels.  Dr.  Gardiner  sajrs :  **  So  the  renewed  struKgle 
was  carried  on  in  all  its  horror.    As  in  the  days 
when  Brace  was  holding  out  against  the  officers  of 
Kdward  I.,  the  men  who  were  thieves  and  mur- 
derers to  the  one  side  were  heroes  and  ])atriots  to 
the  other."  How  much  alteration,  it  may  be  asked, 
is  Dcoessary  to  fit  these  words  to  to-day  ?  In  regard 
to  the  small  measure  of  success  which  attended 
Groroweirs  interference  on  behalf  of  the  Vaudois,  it 
it  shown  to  be  due   to  s)>ecial  circumstances  in 
CrmnwelVs  diplomatic  relations  with  France,  which 
vers  unlikely  to  recur.    The  last  words  in  the  text 
detl  with  the  refusal  of  Cromwell  to  renounce  his 
MRQined  right  to  take  up  the  cause  of  the  Huguenot, 
Aprapoe  of  which  Dr.  Gardiner  says  :  "The  seeds 
vnich  were  nltiroatelv  to  come  to  an  evil  fruitage 
Q  the  Ktvocation  o^  the  Edict  of  Nantes  were 
MiDg  vmrittinglv  sown   by  the  self -constituted 
Pratoetor  of  the  Protestant  world. "   Dr.  Gardiner's 
■M  eMrtribstiott  to  history  maint^ina  the  high 


level  to  which  he  has  accustomed  us.  The  maps 
include  England  and  Wales,  showing  the  districts 
assigned  to  the  Major-Generals  ;  Ireland  as  divided 
by  the  Act  of  Satisfaction ;  the  Vaudois  valley ; 
and  the  lands  surrounding  the  Baltic.  There  are 
also  plans  of  the  attack  on  San  Domingo  and  Tunis 
and  Porto  Farina. 

Lotulon  Memories,  Social,  Historicai,  and  Tope- 
ffraphicai.  \Ky  Charles  William  Heckethom. 
(Chatto&  Windus.) 
Mr.  Hecketiiorn's  work  is  a  companion  volume  to 
his  *  London  Souvenirs,'  on  the  merit  of  which  we 
have  already  spoken.  It  eossips  pleasantly  con- 
cerning features  of  old  London  now  obliterated,  on 
wells  and  springs,  priories  and    religious  houses 

Senerally,  conflagrations,  frosts,  tempests  and 
oods,  and  kindred  subjects,  and  is  always  read- 
able and  sometimes  instructive.  All  that  we  can 
urge  against  it  is  that  political  bias  is  too  apparent, 
and  that  the  language  of  condemnation  employed  is 
continually  too  violent.  When  Mr.  Heckethom 
asks,  **  What  sort  of  women  and  girls  were  they 
who  placidly  listened  to  Shakespeare's  plays  in 
their  coarse  originality?"  we  dissent  entirely  from 
the  conclusion  he  would  have  us  draw,  and 
answer,  "  Every  whit  as  pure-minded  and  good  as 
those  who  listen  to  the  ]>roblem  plays  of  to-day." 
The  arraignment  of  our  ancestors  is  ferocious  :  "in 
manners  they  [our  ancestors]  wore  barbarians,  and 
in  morals  reprobates.  In  science  they  were  not 
worthy  to  tie  our  shoe-strings.  The  periods  in  our 
history  which  are  considered  the  brightest  in  our 
national  intellectuality,  what  did  they  produce? 
Chiefly  plays  and  iK)em8  which,  instead  of  adding 
to  human  progress,  demoralized  the  Court,  and 
through  that  the  whole  nation,  down  to  its  very 
dregs.  Nothing  irill  eltt^e  man  but  science. 
The  italics  are  our  own.  Neither  religion  nor 
culture,  according  to  Mr.  Heckethom,  will  ele- 
vate a  nation.  Only  the  steam  -  hammer  and 
hygiene!  All  through  the  same  intemperance  of 
language  prevails.  When  describing  the  penance 
undergone  for  witchcraft  in  1440  by  the  Duchess  of 
Gloucester,  Mr.  Heckethom  says  of  the  [Lord] 
Mayor,  Sheriffs,  and  Companies  of  London,  **  Fools 
all  of  them  for  taking  a  part  in  a  farcical  punish- 
ment for  an  imi)ossiDle  crime."  We  sympathize 
with  some  of  Mr.  Hecket horn's  views,  but  we 
dislike  his  method  of  advocacy. 

The  Mind  of  the  Cmtnry.     Reprinted  from  the 

Daili/ Chronicle.  (Fisher  Un win.) 
How  far  these  articles,  reprinted  from  the  Daily 
Chronicle,  represent  the  mind  of  the  century  we 
will  not  presume  to  declare.  As  a  rule  the  canvas 
is  too  small  for  the  picture  to  take  a  permanent 
place  in  a  gallery.  Take  the  question  of  poetry, 
the  subject  of  which  comes  first  in  the  volume, 
Mr.  Lionel  Johnson,  who  discusses  it,  seeks  in  less 
than  eight  pages  to  deal  with  the  poetry  of  Eng- 
land, France,  Germany,  Italy,  and  to  some  extent 
with  that  of  America  and  Scandinavia.  So  far  as  a 
newspaper  article  is  concerned,  this  may  be  well 
enough,  though  even  then  it  can  have  no  special 
significance.  When  it  is  sought  to  make  of  the 
whole  a  permanent  record,  its  inadequacy  becomes 
obvious.  A  few  phrases  — such  as  **the  sombre 
negations  of  Leopardi,"  "  the  bright  impieties  of 
Heine,"  "that  magnificent  anouv^^^  V^^\\.  ^VC\V 
man,"  and  **  Byrow,  the  \eaa\.  '^tlecX,  oil  ^^c«^\.  v^"^"^ 
—do  little  to  viviiy  &  aumtcAr^  \xi  '^V\^'^L^iv\a^»^ 


320 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.   [i^s.vilmabchH 


name  and  no  mote.  The  Procrustean  treatment 
necesiary  to  the  ac^sompUahment  of  the  scheme  is 
f*tal  to  ita  value.  Thumb -nail  encyclo|xtdias  are 
Dot  as  yet  mdlspeaBabk  in  a,  world  eveu  where 
people  have  not  tune  for  accuracy. 

The  FirH  Part  of  Kbw  Hmru  IV*;  The  Sf.rQJid 
Part  of  Kinif  Htury  IV .  With  Introductions  and 
Not««  by  John  JL>eQni8.  (Bell  &;  Sona.) 
Tkk  two  lateat  issues  of  the  "  Chiswick  Shake* 
mare'*  oottslat  of  the  first  and  second  parts  of 
*Kjtig  Henry  IV.;'  repriut^^d  from  the  Cambridge 
text  with  the  vaLoable  ititrodtic lions  and  notes  of 
Mr*  Dennis  and  the  quaint  and  eiiective  illustra- 
tions of  Mr,  By  am  Shaw.  The  volumes  keep  up 
their  beauty  and  value »  and  the  edition  is  the 
prettiest  that  haft  been  ispued  iu  this  aize.  The 
teict  IB  wotiderfuUy  clear  and  IcKible,  and  our  only 
complaint  againat  the  work  la  tnat  it  is  almost  too 
beautiful  for  the  drudgery  to  which  a  handy  edition 
of  IShakesi>eare  should  be  assigued, 

Wincht^^.     By  R.   Townaend   Warner.    (Bell  k 

Hons.) 
Of  the  series  of  "  Handbooks  1<j  the  Crreat  Public 
BchoolSt'*  of  which  three  or  four  successiye  voiumos 
have  appeared,  this  u^ion  Wiuchefiter  by  Mr. 
W^amer,  a  late  soholart  is  the  moat  interesting 
and  readable.  Winchester  is  not  ouly  the  oldest 
of  our  great  public  schools,  it  is  also  the  moat 
pleaaanlly  Bituated,  and  il  can  boast  the  possession 
of  the  quaintefit  and  most  pictureeque  cuitoma 
and  traditiona.  Mr.  Warner  ia  juAtihed  in  eotn- 
plaining  of  the  difficulty  of  writing  a  book  for 
two  classes  of  readers,  one  class  of  which  knows 
all  that  is  to  bo  known,  while  the  second  seeks 
information  on  matters  the  most  familiar  to  the 
other.  Such  difficulty  is  inherent  in  tba  series. 
By  the  aid  of  copious  illuatrationa  he  conveys  an 
excellent  idea  of  the  buildings  and  proceedingd  at 
*'the  mother  of  schools."  A  Bei>arate  portion  of 
his  volume  is  devoted  to  school  '* notions^'  and 
cnatomsi  the  former,  as  is  known  to  all  Wyke- 
hamistSg  indicating  the  school  language.  It  is 
inte^restmgi  but  not  unexpeoted,  to  tinu  in  this  many 
gooil  old  Kiiglish  words  which  have  dropped  out 
of  use  elsewhere.  *'  Swink,"  for  hard  work,  recalls 
thus  not  ouly  Chaucer,  who  is  quoted  by  Mr. 
Warnerj  but  Milton,  whose 

t^jwitkked  hedger  at  bis  supper  sat. 

Most  of  the  information  now  supplied  is  acces^^ible 
in  other  works,  of  which  a  goodly  number  were 
issued  ID  connection  with  the  celebration  in  18^^  of 
the  tive  hundredth  anniveraary  of  the  openini;  of 
the  school.  8ome  uti published  historical  matter 
hft«t  however  J  been  obtained  from  the  Verney  M8i5. 
iu  the  shape  of  suhoot  letters  of  the  seventeenth 
century* 

71i€  Enpiiih  Catalogue,  of  Bookj*  for  1000,    (Sampson 

Low  &  CoO 
This  annual,  the  most  indispensable  of  all  to  the 
lover,  the  purchaser,  and  the  seller  of  booke^  puts 
in  once  more  its  appearance.  If|  as  has  been  ^id, 
the  war  has  in^ue  need  unfavourably  the  product  iou 
of  books,  no  trace  of  such  effect  is  to  bo  found,  the 
latest  volume  having  the  customary  dimensions. 
Some  new  features  present  themselves^  such  oa  a 
Jjniiof  tiiepriacip&l  puhliah&r»  iu  the  United  States, 
and  a  Uat  of  works  on  angJing,  fish,  and  tiahing^ 


which  Bunpkments  the  *Bibliotheca  Pisa 
issued  in  1883  by  Mr.  T,  SatchelL  A  never- 
welcome  is  once  more  heartily  renewed. 

Thk  March  part  of  Mait^  including  Nos.  Tt 
b&a  many  articles  of  interest^  some  of  then 
trated,  Mr,  Henry  Balfour,  discoursing  on  J 
lia»  gives  us  some  deaigna  of  boomerangs. 
Fawcett  has  some  valuable  notes  on  the  D^j 
Madras,  an  outcast  Jungle  people  occupyii 
forests  about  V^i^aKSpatam.  Mr.  Ed  go- Part 
deala  with  Maori  relics  from  New  ZgoXmi 
with  feathered  arrows  from  the  New  Hel 
Mr.  C.  M.  Woodford  writes  on'Tattmng/am 
some  striking  illustratione  of  that  art.  It  is 
able  that  the  spelling  of  words  such  as  ia^toOf 
*c.,  should  be  fixed  on  a  definite  basis. 

Dr,  William  K.  A.  Axcix  has  reprinted  fn 
Tranm^tiom  of  the  Lancashire  and  Cheshire 
quarian  Society  Simwjtf  Pyrhan^n  Wd^h  7*f 
Hon  of  Martiaf^f  Epigram  ofthf  Happy  Lift. 
It  IS  taken  from  a  unique  broadHide  iu  the  Ch 
Library,  one  of  the  treasures  of  which  it  is,  hu 
interest,  and  supplements  the  information  gi 
the  *D.N.B/  concerning  the  translator.  I 
Axon,  an  excellent  Judte,  says,  it  has  claimi 
the  tihilologist,  the  bibliographer,  the  antii 
and  the  lover  of  literature. 


Wt  mtMl  t^l  $ipu,iaX  allEntimi  to  the  foi 
twtkts:— 

On  all  com  muni  o&tioDs  muat  be  wiitten  th< 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  oeoessari  ly  fo 
HcatioUj  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 
Wjc  cannot  undertake  to  answer  querioi^  pri^ 
To  secure  insertion  of  communications 
apondcnta  must  observe  the  following  rolei 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  k  ie] 
slip  of  napev,  with  the  signature  of  the  srriu 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  Whjen  m 
ing  (queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  fl 
entries  in  the  rjai>er,  contributors  are  ret 
put  in  ija  ran  theses,  immediately  aft^r  \ 
headiog,  the  aeries,  volume^  and  |iage 
which  they  refer.  Correa|.>ondenis  wl 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  skJ 
munication  *'  IhipUcate." 

E.  T.  liRYDCiKS.— A  "Duoh"  man  ini| 
learned  in  the  theology  of  Duns  8col| 
teen th -century  divine,  who  was  fuliowedi 
by  ritany  "Scutists,"  as  Eraemxui  ternipf 
the  works  of  the  latter  or  any  good  cnc  ll 

H,  G.  H.  r'Orientatiou  of  Churchea  i  Jn  Eng 
—  Von  will  find  the  subject  discuasedj^ in  tii 
of  '  N.  Sl  Q.'  Hee  ^'^  H.  xii.  165  ;  «*^'  ^■^5.  r.  35 
under  varioua  headings  the  indeses  f^iwoerally 

CoHiUfjENDCM.  —P.  17K,  col.  I,  I  ^4f0^  for 
read  of.  m, 

AfJTWE,  jj[ 

Editorial  Uommunicationa  should  biAibaddrt 
"The  Editor  of  'Notes  and  Queries  T  "^Ad^ 
ments  ami  Business  Letters  to  "TheiiPnblu 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chane-ft&iy  Li£ 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  de'^ljll^  io 
communications  which,  for  any  reas' jUwl  W 
^rint ",  «nA  \x\  \\i\%  txiU  we  can  make  r|i^gxQg 


^b.vilicabch16,i9ql]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENQLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITEKATURE,  SCIENCE 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


TkM  ATHSNjUUMfor  March  9  eontaim  ArtieUt  on 

PU0HB8  •  f  OUVBK  CROMWBLL 
JI.CBOKTUII  OOLUSi  on  BNQLISH  UTMRhTVKB. 
kOT  ud  PABLB  Im  PdYCHOLOOT. 
tm  mTSOHBUT  to  UR.  FURMIVikLL. 
■ir  BOTBLflz-Aaae   Maawarlnc;  A  Narrow  War-.   A   Path  of 
Tlif  ■•  i  Trowem  i  May  ^UTrrTTll•  Brno's  Heaj ;  UU  Lordship's 


MULBooCHIMA. 

rSABTUIB  LITBRATUUB 

'SICAM  rHILOLO'«Y.  . 

«  WAB  aad  tho  AKMY. 

•  M  UBRABT  TABLB-U8T  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

k.  TKAU.  OP  FIOS  "  :  SIB  HAlUlY  SMITU ;  AHCHBI8H0P  SPOT- 

TUWOOD aad  VATHBB  JOHN  UOILVIB ;  The  THO (rBADOUBS ; 

Tho  '•  CHABLB8  "  of  HOKACB  WAUHILBI)  "  TKIl  BCYIRATB  "  ; 

SALBti  TboSFBJKO  I'UBLUUIKO  8BASON. 

AUM- 

VBAET  OOeSIF. 

^MKKEi—Ubnrj  T>be;  I>r.  O.  M.  Dawson;  A*tronoml.al  Notes } 

isilstiSB }  Moooags  Neat  Wook  i  Ooos  p 
.SBARTBt-MoitiiiMr  Moapcs's  Improssioas  of  the  War;  Wator- 

OileusatMoosra.  Akbow's;  lUr  O.  tf.  Measom  -,  Sales ;  Moms  from 


MmCi-Vkm  W«ik ;  Gossip ;  rerfornaaoos  Neat  Week. 
ft4MA  :-0«ealp. 


V»  ATHENjAUM  for  Fdbruary  23  contains  Articles  on 

LRBBABY  HUTOBY  of  AMBKICA. 
■I  QBBMAM  PBOPLB  and  the  KBFURMATION. 
hsBBW  BDinON  of  the  OOLDBN  BOUGH. 
■Clio  la  BNOLISH. 
SVBOVBLB:— The  Bvo  Maid;  The  Bishop's  Gambit;  The  After- 

IHMi  LePrlqnei:  i<e  AmiOmei  LaCadette. 
•BIAOA  and  the  UNITBU  STA IBS. 
-SmOLOOIBS. 

»iniUBKABT  TABX«B-UBT  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
M>  K4BTAZIINI :   The  MS.     BOOK  of  CUrAK';   The  SPRING 
fraUBHIMG    SBAxMlN;     HUCHOWN;     MONKS    and    THBIR 
UX4L0OUB8:  TheKBLMSCOIT  PRB8S. 

Also- 

UinUAT  GOSSIP. 

mwa  i-AlroaoMlcal  Books ;  SocleUes ;  Meetings  Next  Week. 

'BB  ABll  I   Bodety  of  Painters  la  Water  Colonrs ;  Sales ;  Gossip. 

It^WG^-Ihe  Week ;  Gossip ;  Performaaoes  Next  Week. 

ll*UAi-.The  Week ;  Gossip. 


Jfu  ATHKNJSUM  for  March  f  contaim  Arixeimn  on 
¥VUOT.  RHYS  on  CBLTIC  FOLK-LORB. 
BOMB  BOLDIBB  AUTOBIOGRAPHIBS. 
The  INHABIFANrs  of  the  PHILIPPINB8. 
M.  FRANCB'S  NBW  HOOK. 
The  MBANINO  Of  GOOD. 
NBW  NOVBLS  :-The  Haered  Fonat ;  The  RelleTiaff  Bishop  i  The  Man 

who  Forgot ;  Tne  Tragedy  of  a  Pedigree. 
HIBTOKICAL  ROMANCBS. 
ORIRN  FAL  LITBRATCRB 

OUR  LIBRARY  TAHLB-LI8T  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
MR.  F.  S.  BLLIK;   CAVIL;   The  SPRING  PUBLISHING  HK\<<ON  i 

SALB;  -HBNRY  BARROW.  SBPARAFIST.' 
Alm- 
LITBRARY  G088IP. 
801BMCB  :-George  Fkaacls  Fltxgerald;  Physlea  aad    Mathemstles 

Anthropological  Ntites ;  Astronomical  Notes ;  Societies ;   Meetings 

Next  Week ;  Gooslp. 

FINB  ARTS: -New  PabUeatlons;  The  BnrUngton  Fine-Art*  Ola»>  i 

Sales ;  Goselp. 
MUSIC :— The  Week ;  Gossip ;  Performaaoes  Meat  WeA. 
DRAMA  :~The  Week ;  Gossip. 


The  A  I  UBSAiUM  for  February  16  contains  ArUde*  "H 

PROF.  SAINTSBURY'B  HISTORY  of  CRITICISM. 

HISTORY  aad  TOPOGRAPHY  of  BAGHDAD. 

A  BIBLICAL  BNCYCLOPJ£DIA. 

SBMANTICS. 

RUMANIA  In  1900. 

The  GRBBK  MBS.  on  MOUNT  ATH08. 

NBW  NOVBLM  :-Ia  the  Name  of  a  Woman ;  The  Pride  of  Mace  t  The 
Heart  of  the  Ancient  Wood ;  Rachel  Pearose,  Christian ;  A  Way 
side  Weed;  A  Wheel  of  Fire;  Marked  with  a  Cipher. 

LOCAL  HISTORY. 

BIBUCAL  LITBRATURB. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TAHLB-LIST  OF  NBW  HOOKS. 

DR.  FITZBUWARD  HALL;  A0CB8SI0N  aad  COBONATION  , 
The  "CHARLBS"  Of  HURACB  WALPOLB'rt  "TiclUII- 
VIRATB":  UNIVBRSITY  BXTBNSION  ;  HUMAN  SACRIFICB  ; 
The  CANONIST  HUG UTIO;  The  MILTON  BIBLB. 

Al40- 

LITB&ARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIBNCBt-Reoent  Fubloatlons;   BooeUes;  Meetings  Next  Wrek  ; 

Gossip. 
FINB  ARTS  :-IUnstrated  Books;  The  New  Gallery ;  Sales;  Gossip. 
MUSIC  :-The  Week ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  t-Goeslp. 


The  ATHENjEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    C    FBANCiS,    AihensBum    Office^    Broaoi's  BuildlDgs,    Chancery  Lane,    E.r. 

And  of  all  Neweagents. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  v^B.YiLUAmmv^wsL 

Grown  Svo,  pp.  620,  oloUi,  Persian  morocco  back,  top  edge  gilt,  5«. 

CLASSICAL  AND  FOREIGN  QUOTATIONS, 

Law  Terms  and  Maxims,  Proverbs,  Mottoes,  Phrases  and  Expressions 
in  French,  Gterman,  Greek,  Italian,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  Portuguese, 

WITH    TRANSLATIONS,   REFERENCES,  EXPLANATORY    NOTES  and   INDEXES. 

By  WM.  FRANCIS  HENRY  KING,  M.A.,  Ch.  Ch.,  Oxford. 


London:  J.   WHITAXER   &  SONS,    12,   Warwick   Lane,   KC 

WHI  TAKER'S     PEERAGE. 

A   COMPLETE   PEERAGE,   BABONETAGE,   KNIGHTAGE   AND 

COMPANIONAGE. 

hiraker's  Peerage  contains  everything  asoally  Bought  for  in  a  work  of  the  kind,  with  manj  partioi.l*'* 

not  to  be  found  elsewhere. 

ENLARGED    AND    IMPROVED. 

PRICE   TWO   SHILLINOS  AND   SIXPENCE. 

Or  full  royal  blue  roan,  gilt  edges,  48.  6d.  ^^^ 


WHITAKER'S    ALMANACK   FOR    1901. 

This  has  been  again  enlarged  by  sixteen  pages,  and  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  iofbnn^*^^'^ 
oontaiDs  the  Members  of  the  New  Parliament,  the  newly  constituted  London  Borough  Connoils,  aa^  ^"^ 
new  London  School  Board,  also  a  variety  of  other  interesting  Articles  on  subjects  of  General  Inter00^* 

Crown  8vo,  paper  covers,  Ig.  ;  or,  with  Appendix,  half  bound,  28.  6dL 


London:  J.  WHITAKRR  &  SONS,  12,  Warwick  Lane,  E.O. 


PHattd  br  JOHN  BDWAKD  FHAMCU.  Attvunm FrtM.  Bimm't  BmUdii^i.  CTiaBwry  Uaa.  B.a  i  vU 
/OHM  C.  FMAMUU  M  BNUa't  BMMi»mGteamn  \M%,^C.-8«tw«qr«  Mmwk  IS.  iaOL 


rOTES    AND    QFERIES: 

%  PeHnm  ttt  Inurrommnniatton 


RARY     MEN, 


FOB 

GENERAL 


READERS,    ETC. 


**Wlien  found,  make  a  note  of."~CAPTAiN  Cuttlb. 


CNdtth"! 
81CBIE8.J 


Saturday,  March  23,  1901. 


(    Pbiob  Foubpshos. 


S  SYSTEM  of  PHYSICAL  TRAINING. 

BBCBR  ADAM,  pabUthed  12«.  M.    FIRST  EDITION 
I  ALB  tt  POLDBN,  Ltd.,  3,  Amen  Corner,  London,  B.C. 


iONATION    of    QUBBN    VICTORIA. 

I  Oop7  of  the  8TJN,  Second  Edition,  June  28.  188S, 
containing  a  Fall  Account  of  the  Qneen'*  Coronation 
on  of  the  State  Carriafe*  of  Marshal  Sonlt  and  the 
or*.— Offers  reqneited  to  Z.,  AUienaeom  Press,  Bream's 
oery  Lane,  B.C. 

ITER  WANTED  to  work  at  BRIXTON 

ate  Terms  and  Qoaliflcations,  in  first  instance,  to  BBTA. 
s.  Bream's  Bnlldings.  B.C. 


H   MIDDLB-CLASS   FAMILIES, 

1800— Collector  of  Pedicrees  and  Pedigree  Byidence 
es.-Address  RBCORD  AGBNT,  50,  Beecroft  Road, 
>n,  SB. 


GB   (or   would  SOB-LET  for  THREB 

),  a  HOUSE  in  South- West  Suburb  {S6l.  rental)  for  a 
le  Country,  or  Seaside,  not  more  than  flftrflye  miles 
^ppl7  P.,  Athenaeum  Press,  Bream's  Buildings,  B.C. 

kiss..  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 

tioneers  of  Books  and  Literary  Property  of  erery 
bivles  and  smaller  Collections  carefully  Catalogued 
iflisred  for  Sale.  Packing  and  Remoyal  arranged  for. 
e  for  Probate  or  other  purposes.  Auction  Rooms,  Hi, 
Pleet  Street  end).    BaUblished  1809. 


TON'S     HERALDIC    OFFICE 

arches  and  Authentic  Information  respecting 

JlL    bearings    and    FAMILY    DE8CBNT8, 

irate  Department  for  the  Artistic  Production  of 

&ALDIC  PAINTING  AND  ENGRAVING. 

Us,  Dies,  Signet  Rings,  Lirery  Buttons,  Crested  Note- 

i^sper,  Visiting  and  Inritation  Cards.  Ac. 


:aDILLY,  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Park). 


-ALL    OOT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS    sup- 

natter  on  wliat  Subject.  Acknowledged  the  world  oyer 
srt  B«>okfladers  extant.  PleaM  atate  wants.— BAKER'S 
,  14-10,  John  Bright  Street,  Birmingham. 

AGENCY  FOR  AMERICAN  BOOKS. 

UTNAM'S   SONS,    PUBLISHERS   and 

BOOKSELLERS, 
etSSrd  StrMt.  New  York,  and  34,  BEDFORD  STREET, 
;.,  desire  to  call  the  attention  of  the  READING 
excelleni  facllltlea  presented  by  their  Branch  House  in 
ling,  on  the  most  tarourable  terms,  orders  for  their 
RD     PUBLICATIONS,     and    for     ALL    AMERICAN 

Catalogues  sent  on  application. 


TTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER -PAD. 

DBNHALL  PRESS,  Ltd.  Publishers  and  Printers, 

»,  Leaaenhail  Street.  London.  E.O.) 
iese  paper,  orer  which   the    pen   slips  with    perfect 
isee  eaeh.    &».  per  dosen.  ruled  or  plain.    New  Foeket 
lea,  ruled  or  plain. 

lid  nose  that  The  Laadenhali  Press,  Ltd..  cannot  be 
the  loM  of  MS8.  by  fire  or  otherwise.    Duplicate  copies 


TSTBSW  VOLUMB  OF 
MB.  8.  B.  GABDINXB'S  'OOMMONWXAI/FH.* 


THE 


AND 


HIBTOBY  OF 

COMMONWEALTH 

PBOTECTOBATE, 

1649-1660. 

By  SAMUBL  RAWSON  GARDINBR, 

M.A.  Hon.  D.O.L.  Oxford,  Litt.D.  Oambridge,  ftc. 

Vol.  III.  1654-1666.   With  6  Maps.    8vo.  21«. 

LONGMANS,  QBBBN  ft  CO., 
London,  New  xork,  and  Bomtwy. 


O 


NE    HUNDRED    BOOK-PLATBS.     Bngiaved 

on  Wood.    By  THOMAS  MORINO. 

Feap.  4to.    Printed  direct  from  the  Orlirlnal  Blocks  on  Hand-made 
Paper,  bound  In  artistio  boards,  12s.  fkt.  net. 

FIFTY    BOOE-PLATBS.     Engraved  on  Copper. 

By  THOMAS  MORWO. 

Uniform  with  the  abOTO.    Printed  dlreet  from  the  Original  PlatM 

on  Band-made  Paper,  tt«.  net. 

THOMAS  MORING. 
The  De  la  More  Press.  62,  High  Holbom,  London,  W.O. 

NOW  READY.  SECOND  EDITION,  REVISED  and  BNLA&OBU. 

l^HB    PBNNY    CHRONOLOGY:    a    Series    of 

X     Important  Dates  In  the  History  of  the  World  from  th«  Betn  of 
DaTld  to  the  Present  Time.    Second  Edition.    By  W.  T.  LYNn7b.A. 


F.R.A.8. 


O.  STONEMAN,  39.  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 


NOW  READY,  SECOND  EDITION,  REVISED  and  AUGMENTED, 
price  Slzpenee. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A.  F.R.A.8. 
G.  STONEMAN,  SB,  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 


ATHEN^UM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  Atkmmum.  NoUa  and  QMtms,  te.,  la 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  tor  all  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEWS. 
and^ERIODICAL  PRINTING.— IS,  Broun's  Buildings,  Gbaneery 
Lane,  E.C. 

STICEPHAST    PASTE    is   HEAPS  better  than 
Gum  tor  stteklag  in  Scraps,  Joining  Papers,  *e.   W.  and  Is.  with 
strong,  neetnl  Brash  (not  a  Toy).   Send  two  stamps  to  cover  5^«Mi«a 
for  a  sample  BoMn.  iacluAint  Bruk.    Yitftnri,  %««Mr  \AiSL  ^^nve^^ 
Leadenhafl  Street,  B.C.  Ot«A\SWtionet%.  ^xi«aLVnn«.¥%a>*«ibsx%. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9«^8.  vilmabch23.i9ol 


Mvery  SA  TURDA  F,  of  any  BookadUr  or  Newt'igent, 
Price  THREEPENCE. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

iOURNAL  OF 

SNQLISE   and   FOREIGN  LITERATURE 

ai\d  the  DRAMA. 


The  A  rUENjUUAt  for  March  16  contaim  Articles  on 

DU.  OABDIMB&'S  HISTORY. 

THE  ROXANCB  of  LAST  CBMTVRY. 

MR.  WRATI8LAW  on  MR.  SWIMHURNB. 

BRISTOL  RBC0RU6. 

8RLBCTI0N8  from  DR.  CRBIOHTON'S  WRITINGS. 

NEW  NOVELS:— That  Sweet  Bnemy:  The  Lost  Land;  The  Sin  of 
JMper  Stnndish ;  The  Olrl  at  the  Halfway  Houie  ;  Two  Sides  of  a 
Qoestlon  i  Aocordiaji  to  Plato ;  Naomi's  Exodus ;  The  Mayor  of 
Llttlejoy ;  The  Master  Passion ;  Lays  of  Donbt. 

FRENCH  LITERATURE. 

SHORT  STORIES. 

SPORTS  and  PASTIMES. 

LAW  and  POLITICS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

SIR  EDWARD  MALBT9  •  BHIFTINO  SCENES  ' ;  The  ROYAL  HIS- 
TORICAL SOCIETY i  The  SPRING  PUBLISHING  SEASON; 
SALE. 

Aug— 

LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

RCIBNCE :— Life  of  Sir  John  Fowler;  Geogmphloal  Notes;  Astro- 
nomical Notes ;  Societies ;  Meetlnfs  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 

FINE  ARTS  :-The  Cretan  Script ;  The  BIjth  BnRraTlngs ;  Sale  ; 
Gossip. 

MUSIC :— The  Week ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 

DRAMA  :-The  Shakspeare  First  FoUo ;  Gossip. 


Tht  ATHI£N AHUM  for  March  9  eontaim  ArticUi  on 
SPEECHES  of  OUVER  CROMWELL. 
MR.  CHURTON  COLLINS  on  ENOUSH  LITERATURE. 
FACT  and  FABLE  in  PSYCHOLOGY. 
THE  FESTSCHRIFT  to  DR.  FURNIVALL. 
NEW   NOVELS:— Anne  Maiawaring:  A  Narrow  Waj:   A  Path  of 

Thorns  :  Treweni ;  May  sllTcr ;  The  Bmnis  Head ;  His  Lordship's 

Whim. 
BOOKS  on  CHINA. 
BYZANTINE  LITERATURE. 
AFRICAN  PHILOLOGY. 
The  WAR  and  the  ARMY. 

OUR  UBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 
"  A  FRAIL  OF  FIGS  "  ;  SIR  HARRY  SMITH ;  ARCHBISHOP  SPOT- 

TI8WOOD  and  FATHER  JOHN  OGILVIB  t  The  TROUBADOURS ; 

The  ••  CHARLES  "  of  HORACE  WALFOLEV  "  TRIUMVIRATE  " ; 

SALES  i  The  SPRING  PUBLISHING  SEASON. 
Auo— 
LITERARY  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE :-Librar7  Table;  Dr.  G.  M.  Dawaon;  Astronomical  Notes; 

societies ;  MeeUngs  Next  Week ;  Gossip 
FINE  ARTS : -Mortimer  Menpes's  Impressions  of  the  War;  Water- 

Colours  at  Messrs.  Affaew's ;  Sir  G.  6.  Measom  ;  Sales  ;  Notes  from 

Rome ;  Gossip. 
MUSIC  :-nie  Week ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-Goeslp.  

OFFICE  for  ADVBRTISBMENT8. 
Bream's  Bnildings,  Chancery  Lane,  B.C. 


PubliBhed  by  JOUN  C.  FRANCIS, 
BretuD*t  BaildiDga,  Chancery  Lane,  B.C. 


N0TB8  AND  QUBRIB8.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 
to  NOTES  AMD  QUERIES  free  by  poet  is  10s.  8<f.  for  8U  Meaths; 
or  ao«.  M.  for  Twelre  Months,  indudlnff  the  Volume  ladex.-JOHH  C. 
FRANCIS.  Note$  and  Queries  Office,  Bream's  BaildlnKs,  Chancery  Lsas. 


N 


BWSVENDOBS'      BBNBVOLENT 

PROVIDENT  INBTITUTIOM. 


and 


The  Right  Hen.  the  EARL  of  ROSBBBRT,  X.e. 


The  Rifht  Hon.  LORD  OLBNEBX. 
Sir  W.  J.  RICHMOND  COTTON. 


Established  in  18»  for  giaatlnc  Pensions  and 

io  principals  or  assistants  engafed  as  Tendors  of 

A  Donation  of  Ten  Gnineas  constitnies  a  Tic 


jwspapon. 

▼ieo-Presidant  and  gtves 

three  Totes  for  life  at  aU  elections.  Each  donation  of  Tkree  oJaim 
fires  a  TOte  at  aU  elections  for  life.  Erery  Annual  Smbaertbar  Is 
eadtted  to  one  Tote  at  aU  eieotioBs  in  respeot  of  eaeh  Flw  sumaga  so 
paid. 

Erery  man  and  woman  throughout  the  United  Kingdom,  wtaHMr 
publisher,  wholesaler,  retailer,  employer  or  employad,  is  esMiHed  ta 
become  a  member  apon  payment  ol  Rre  Millings  annually  or  Itoee 
Ided  that  he  or  she  U  ongagad  in  &•  «le  et 


Guineas  for  Life,  proridi 
aewspapers. 
The  Annuitants  now  number  thirty-six,  the  ma 


B    i»i.MMi— M—   uvTC    Biuuuvr   ■■iir»y-i^,  tmna  imam 

romen  aOL  per  annum  eaeh.  These  Feasioas.  i 
per  annum,  are  all  paid  from  the  dlTidenda 
ited  capital  of  the  Instttation. 


renelyini  WLt 


tOOL  I 

iuTOSted  capital  o 

The  "Royal  Vletoria  Pension  Fund"  was  eetabHehert  in  vms.    u 
proTldes  pmsions  of  XW.  a  year  eaeh  tor  four  widows  of  aewarandMn. 

The  "Fraaels  Fuad"  prorides  pensloas  lor  oae  asaa  ML  aai  mm 
woman  aoi. 

Temporary  Relief  Is  girea,  not  only  to  Membars,  bat  to  aawaTasiden 
or  their  serranu  who  may  be  -**'^ -"r*  *n-  tfTiitaaiit  Tij  1 


Inquiry  is  made  and  reUef  awarded  in  aeeordanee  with  the  ■aiWa  aC 
•adi  case.  W.  WILKIE  JOMMB,  BmaWaj. 

Memorial  HaU  BuUdings,  FUrrlngdoa  Stnet,  B.a 

BOOKSBLLBRS'  SBA»IDB   HOLIDAY  HOMB. 
49.  ROYAL  PARADE,  BA8TB0UBNB. 
The  aboTo  Home  has  been  established  tor  the  beaatt  of  BoOkaanera> 
their  AselstaBts,  and  Fsmllies.    Suites  of  Rooms,  or  eiagla  nsiiiiiuii. 
can  be  had  furnished,  with  cooking  aad  snendinee,  at  Tery  ■Mdanta 
chargesper  week. 

The  Home  is  re]riete  with  erery  oomfort.  aad,  tadag  tha  ana  tnmn, 
forms  a  most  charming   resldanoe   for   those  deotriag  rant  aad  a 


tona^ht^  ^^i^?*^ 
Mr. 


iharming 
imatthU 


tlOToly 


llpartlculars  and  forms  of  appUoatioa  can  be  had  of  tha  Sacmaiy, 
Oao.  Laxku.  at  the  London  Oflea.  a.  Pateraoctar  Bow.  B.& 


Soeond  Edlttoa,  price  Fourpoace 

BRIBF      LB8S0NS      in       ASTRONOMY. 
Br  W.  T.  LYNN.  B.A    F.R.A.8. 
"  Oonreys  a  irrsat  deal  of  inforasauon  without  beins  ia  any  w»y  dry 
or  lechaioal."— K«N<««A  MfrvNTf . 

O.  STONEMAN,  SB.  Warwick  Laae.  B.C 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFPEE— «OQAR— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 


SCHWBPPES  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  lat 
Exhibition,  Paris,  UOO. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda. 

THBbU:  WATBKb  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Poiasfi,  LittuA, 
LemoDade,  ToDic-Wacer,  GiDger  Beer,  Diy  flitigAr 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  beenoelebrated  for  oyeracenturj. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 
and  continae  to  be  supplied  to  the  Qaeen. 

/    BNGLISH  NATURAL  TABLB  WATBR^- 
^SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN, [ 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  J 

iScHWBPPBS,  LTD.,  LONDON,  MaLYBRN, 

OLASOOW,  LIVaaPOOL,  BaUTOL,  SYIMIET,  ai 


9«»s.vilmibch2s.1901.]   NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


221 


mNDQN,  SATVRBAr,  MAMCff  iS,  mi. 


CONTENTS* -No.  169. 

HOT^ :— Mrt.  Jocdfto  In  Dublin,  321-Anlmftle  In  Fenpl«-f 
In«i{le«.  2*2-- St.  ftfctTfck's  Dny-Rrrfllnr&pence  of  1S;»7— 
N «;wJ! paper  fttiii  ManEiLzlne  SUlbtice,  223  —  EL  Condt'  de 
dtoerts— Blue  B**rd  — '^Zirelsn"'  or  ♦'Zejiha"  —  Wsarfl 
Ft Ak- lore*  TM  —  Anlmftl  Suiserstitlotia  in  IntUa  —  King 
AlwAfd  YU.'n  Title  In  Soollinti  -Arabs wid  Odil  Number** 
225— "Lo^^'— ^TliomM  Fletcher,  Poet/  if^, 

QU£Rll£S;--AnQnpnDua  Voy&gea  atnl  Tniviflb— Araerfcnii 
SpelUng  -  Br*«Ung  -  The  Orb-**Capt.  Bock"  — "At 
Iffb^  as  ^  trtrel"— Odd  If  umbers^  ^iT— Aathor  of  V^rteB 
Tinted-*' QIIVb  L»p  "— Sir  A.  Bmlxuon— IHah  Hurps 


WMii*d-*'Ours  L»p" 

A  City  -  Mirtt -'^To  tit  bodkin " ~ RduiAn  Stet+lywil 


W«L|ffat« — Jobnaon,  Siaerlff  or  London,  326—*'  Foalri^*' : 
"  Lock  Btm  '■ :  "  Cblficlieper  "  —  GufttlanEnoU  —  NHl  G  wjn 
— Mary»  Countesfl  li-^  Front — Haulston  Famiiy  — Walpole'i 

liHPLIESr-Journyiittiq  Bmtrfe.  330  -  Arundel :  Wnlden— 
Snwitmif!  uid  Mmi»^u&— Mm.  Arbuthuot  —  Bl«hop  of 
Loodoo'i  Fuaenl,  331  —  Bpitupb  of  J.  NfclioU  —  Simon 
PruKT  —  Alliuiion  In  WordHWorth —Author  of  Hymn 
WvQtvl  —  "  Bob-biiw  ;  "  —  Liunb  JottiQijii.  212  —  8*fford 
Paniilii'— ChlMl  Marki—Footprlnta  of  Goda— "So  lonif,'* 
233  —  Quc-iitiiiK  Beiftst  —  *'  Le  trwente  caHcbe ' '  —  ByflieM 
Ppmiif — "  S*.rjnm  3Lfme-H."  2'^— BntBeoo^e,  Oxford— Sur- 
DMi&ei— Fnll-miLli  uvi  Golf— Poem  nttributed  fco  Milton— 
Hulmp— Shi™  of  War  od  LflOil,  235— Title  of  Bsqutre— 
*'B*tter  to  have  loved  and  lost"— Comitini^  Amnther'B 
Bmtont- OM  London  Tiveras,  :!3iQ— Dat-a  Wanted  — 
Autiior  of  BeellAtion— *'  In  the  «wim  "—Dr.  JobnBon— 
'*  Bartt:?<1/'  ^^J— Cbftucerliici  PaaBftge— **  Jtber'i  cooki"- 
Rigb  and  t^vf—' '  Rok«r  '*  —  "  Oftendo  '*^Oeroando,  SKSS— 
Col.  Thonaa*  Oooper^  33©« 

HOTKS  ON  BOOESi-HiiTbottleftBdOftJblfto't 'Dictionary 
of  Frencb  and  ItaUan  Quotationi '— B^ldon's  "Eobert 
Ld^uIb  SttevensoD'— MjigiuJnoi. 

HcHicoi  to  Oorrevpondeota, 


MRS.  JORDAN  IN  DUBLIN. 
St>  little  do  we  know^  save  what  is  told  ub 
ill  the  pa^es  of  Sir  JouFih  Harrington  and 
Tate  Wilkinson,  cif  Mrs,  Jordan*a  novitiate 
(t.c,  the  period  when  .she  figui-ed   as   Miaa 
fmncis),  that  it  seems  fitting  the  following 
pikrticiilars  should  be  embalmed  in  the  columns 
o!  'N,  &  Q/   They  were  found  quite  recently 
hy  the  writer^  while  making  a  careful  ex- 
amination of  the  playhouse  an nouneem en ts 
h.  a  curious  volume  of  miscellaneous  London 
md  Dublin  newspapers  of  the  latter  half  of 
tbe  eighteenth  century^  one  of  the  treasures 
i^tbe  National  Library  at  Dublin. 

So  for  as  Hibernian  journalism  was  con- 
^msA^  space  was  too  restricted  and  too 
Suable  ID  those  days  to  permit  of  any  save 
^  ^ery  occasional  theatrical  notice ;  but^  as  if 
to  compensate  for  this  to  posterity,  advertise- 
■a«Dts  were  lavish  in  casta  of  performances— 
JO  much  so  that  one  could  wish  for  a  new 
niftory  of  the  Irish  sta^e,  compiled  after  the 
approved  manner  of  Gen  est.  Readable  it 
ti^igbt  not  be>  but  it  could  hardly  fail  to  be 
^uch  more  exhaustive  and  no  less  trust- 
^iwthy  than  Uhetwood,  Victor,  Hitchoock, 
^  the  rest 


Gilliland,  writing  in  1807,  is  barely  able  to 
teU  us  that  Mrs.  Jordan's  de&ut  on  the  sta^e 
was  made  in  Dublin,  as  Miss  Francis,  and  in 
the  character  of  Phcebe  in  '  Ah  Yon  Like  It' 
Mr.  J.  Fitzgerald  Molloyt  in  his  *  Romance  of 
the  Irish  Stago,^  ^oes  so  far  as  to  say  that  the 
event  took  place  in  1776,  at  the  Crow  Street 
Theatre,  and  that  Owenson,  the  father  of 
Lady  Morgan,  played  Oliver  on  that  occasion. 
What  autTiority  exists  for  this  statement! 
Assuming  the  correctness  of  Mrs,  Jordan's 
generally  accepted  birth -date  of  1762,  and 
remembering  that  her  friend  Sir  Jonah  Bar- 
ring ton  puts  her  age  at  seventeen  at  the 
time  of  her  dSut,  I  sec  little  reason,  person- 
ally, to  believe  that  she  had  taken  to  the 
boards  before  the  year  1779.  My  first  trace 
of  her  is  at  the  benefit  of  O'Keeffe,  at  Crow 
Street^  on  90  Mayj  1780,  when  *The  Governess^ 
— a  pirated  version  of  the  ballad  opera  of 

*  The  Duenna'— was  performed,  with  a  topsy* 
tu  r V  y  -li  k  e  cast.  The  charac  te  rs  w  ere  assigned 
as  foMows;  IJfauK  the  governess,  Mr,  T. 
llyder;  Sophia,  Mr,  Owenson;  Flora,  Mr. 
Johnson ;  Enoch  Isachar,  the  Jew,  Mrs. 
Heaphy ;  Octavio,  Mrs.  Thompson;  Don 
Pedro,  Mrs.  Hoskin  ;  Father  Paul,  Mrs* 
Logan  J  Lopez,  Miss  Francis  ;  Lay  Brother, 
Mrs.  O  Neil ;  iLorenzo,  Mrs,  Johnson. 

One  hai-dly  knows  whether  it  is  to  this  pre- 
cise period  or  to  some  earlier  performances 
of  *  The  Governess '  that  Sir  Jonah  Barring- 
ton  refers  when  he  says,  in  the  course  of  his 
charming    account   of   Mrs,  Jordan  in   hia 

*  Personal  Recollections  of  his  Own  Times': — 

*'  Mr,  Daly  about  thiis  limB  resortuil  to  ii,  singular 
apfsclDS  of  theatricat  entertain ment,  by  tb^  noveHy 
whereof  he  proposed  to  rival  bm  (^mpetitorti  at 
Kmock  Alloy— namely,  that  of  rf.v^rsimj  characitrs^ 
the  men  performing  the  fematfi  and  the  females  the 
male  parts  in  comedy  and  o|>era.     The  opera  of 

*  The  Governess '  waa  played  tu  thb  way  for  several 
night*,  the  jmrt  of  Lop^iC  by  MitMS  Francis.  In  this 
lingular  and  unimportiiut  chraraoter  the  versatility 
of  her  talent  rendered  the  piece  attractive,  and  ths 
aeasou  concluded  with  a  strong  anticixmtion  of  her 
future  celebrity,'* 

As  to  the  popularity  In  Dublin  at  this 
period  of  these  Ikmi^  entertainments  there 
can  be  no  question.  Ever  and  anon  one 
remarks  tlie  recurrence  of  *The  Beggar^s 
Opera '  with  a  quaint  reversal  of  characters : 
e.g.,  at  Smock  Alley  on  1  November,  1784, 
Miss  Farren  (announced  as  from  the  Hay- 
market)  actually  made  her  first  appearance 
there  as  Macheath  to  the  Lock  it  of  Mrs.Gemea 
and  the  Filch  of  Mrs.  O^ReUly. 

In  the  advertisement  of  the  City  Theatre, 
Hmock  Alley,  for  19  February,  1782,  Miss 
Francis  is  announced  to  play  Adelaide  iu 
Jephijon'a  tragedy  ot  ^T\\ei  Go\nit*  lA  "^^x- 


222 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9^  s.  vn.  march  23,  iwi. 


bonne.*  On  the  28th  following  she  appeared 
a8  Charlotte  in  *The  Gamester'  for- J.  P. 
Kemble's  benefit,  and  on  16  April  was  the 
Selima  to  his  Bajazet  in  'Tamerlane.' 

Apparently  the  stately  John  Philip  played 
Gloster  for  the  first  time  on  any  stage  at 
Smock  Alley  on  24  April,  when  Miss  Francis 
was  the  Lady  Anne.  On  the  29th  following 
she  appeared  as  Miss  Ogle  in  *The  Belles 
Stratagem,'  and  on  2  May  as  Louisa  in  *  The 
Discovery.'  Four  nights  later  she  was  seen 
as  Maria  in  *  The  School  for  Scandal.' 

For  production  on  14  May,  1782.  occur 
announcements  of  "  a  new  comic  opera,  never 
yet  performed,  *The  Contract.'  Before  the 
overture  an  occasional  prologue,  spoken  by 
Miss  Francis."  The  whole  was  to  conclude 
,with  *  Catharine  and  Petruchio,'  the  name 
parts  by  Kemble  and  Miss  Francis.  Evi- 
dence exists  to  show  that  Garrick's  farce  was 
subsequently  performed  with  the  leading 
characters  so  sustained,  but  grave  doubts 
must  be  entertained  as  to  the  production  at 
this  time  of  *The  Contract'  Certain  play- 
house announcements  occur  much  later  m 
the  year,  showing  that  the  performance  of 
the  opera  had  been  indefinitely  postponed. 
It  was  the  work  of  Robert  Houlton,  an 
English  physician  practising  in  Dublin.  In 
Barker's  *  Complete  List  of  Plays,'  1803,  'The 
Contract'  is  given  under  'Robert  Houlton, 
M.B.,'  as  ''  acted  at  Dublin,  1783,  not  printed." 
A  later  entry  under  the  same  name  runs 
"  '  The  Double  Stratagem,'  CO.,  altered  from 
'The  Contract.'  Acted  at  Capel  Street 
[Dublin!  1784,  not  printed." 

With  her  performance  at  Smock  Alley  on 
IG  May,  1782,  of  Maria  in  Burgoyne's  musical 
comedy  of  '  The  Maid  of  the  Oaks,'  my  trace 
of  Miss  Francis  ends.        W.  J.  Lawrence. 


ANIMALS  IN  PEOPLE'S  INSIDES. 
It  is  astonishing  to  find  to  what  an  extent 
the  belief  in  animals,  other  than  recognized 
entozoa,  living  in  people's  insides  prevails 
in  some  places.  Tlie  following  stories  were 
all  gravely  related  to  my  informants,  as 
matters  of  fact  about  which  there  could  be 
no  doubt  whatever,  within  twenty  miles  of 
Leeds. 

1.  A  woman  statecl  that  her  husband  was 
"  that  afflicted  with  pains  in  the  body,"  that 
they  called  in  the  doctor,  who  said  that  he 
could  do  nothing  for  him.  They  then  asked 
if  he  would  object  to  their  consulting  a 
London  doctor,  and  the  local  doctor 
assentotl.  When  thc^  "  London  doctor"  came 
ho  brouglit  another  with  him.  They  would 
not  look  at  the  patient  till  they  had  received 


two  guineas.     The  wife  said  that  they  must 
have  put  something  into  his  throat  so  that 
they  could  see  right  down  into  his  body,  for 
they  said  he  had  something  "wick"  in  his 
inside,  and  it  had  as  many  hairs  as  we  have 
on  our  heads.    But  they  cfare  not  "  operate," 
for  fear  of  the  live  tning  making  for  the 
patient's  throat  and  suffocating  him.     It  was 
tairly  quiet  when  he  ate  dripping  and  bread, 
but  if  he  took  an^thinz  else  it  would  tap^ 
tap,  tap  in  his  inside  till  they  could  almost 
hear  it.    Now  and  then  it  seemed  to  come  aJl 
in  a  lump  on  his  bodv.    The  ladv  to  whom 
this  experience  was  related  said,  *  Could  ^ou 
not  have  squeezed  the  breath   out  of  itf* 
The  woman  said  they  had  tried  many  a  time, 
but  it  was  alwavs  too  sharp  for  them.    Some 
one  suggested  tnat  the  doctor  might  "clarify" 
(chloroform)  the  man,  and    then  it  would 
"  happen  "  (perhaps)  clarify  the  beast  at  the 
same  time,  in  which  case  they  could  "operate" 
without  risk  of  suffocation. 

2.  A  young  woman  was  ill,  and  the  doctor 
said  she  haof  consumption.  As  he  could  not 
do  her  any  good,  they  consulted  a  herbalist, 
who  said  she  had  no  consumption  about 
her.  It  was  an  "  askard  egg  "  tnat  she  had 
swallowed  some  time  when  drinking  cold 
water.  As  long  as  it  was  an  egg  it  did  no 
harm,  but  as  she  grew  it  grew,  and  the 
herbalist  said  that  she  would  never  be  well 
till  she  got  rid  of  it.  He  advised  that  she 
should  stand  with  her  mouth  open  over  a 
piece  of  roasting  meat  when  it  began  to  smell, 
and  said  that  the  askard  would  then  oome 
out  to  get  at  the  meat.  But  as  soon  as  this 
happened  she  wa^  to  shut  her  mouth  directly) 
or  the  askard  would  "  laup "  back  again. 
The  askard  did  come  out,  and  tried  to  run 
away  ;  but  the  mother  and  daughter  pursued 
it,  tne  one  with  the  poker  and  the  other  with 
the  tongs,  and  it  looked  "  right  wicked "  at 
them.  The  narrator  was  firmly  convinced  of 
the  truth  of  this  story,  having  seen  the  askard 
in  a  bottle  of  spirits  in  the  herbalist's  window. 
It  was  impossible  to  convince  her  that  the 
story  coula  not  be  true,  because  she  had  seen 
the  askard,  and  there  was  nothing  more  to 
be  said.  But  her  mother  had  often  thrashed 
her,  when  she  was  a  girl,  for  drinking  cold 
water  out  of  the  pump. 

3.  There  was  a  "  traveller,"  who  had  "en- 
joyed very  bad  health  "  for  two  years.  At 
last  he  cured  himself  by  getting  beastly 
drunk.  He  went  to  bed  and  vomited  co- 
piously, afterwards  falling  asleep.  On  waking 
tie  found  a  live  creature  hopping  about  wheiv 
lie  had  been  sick.  Now,  if  he  had  only 
vomited  in  an  ordinary  way  the  thing  wooU 
never  have  come  up ;  but  in  this  OMe  th 


9»S.  VII.  March  23. 1901]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


223 


neature  was  drunk  too,  and  could  not  help 
meii.  My  informant  asked  if  they  had 
ept  the  animal  in  spirits ;  the  reply  was, 
1  didn't  hear,  but  the  man  has  never  ailed 
ny thing  since." 

4.  A  roung  man  of  seventeen,  educated  at 
Board  school  and  quite  intelligent  on  most 
abjects,  declared  lately  to  my  nephew  that 

mui  who  lived  next  door  had  had  a  live 
hing  in  his  inside  like  a  monkey,  but  with 
ight  lees  and  a  head  the  size  of  a  billiard 
wl,  ana  every  now  and  then  the  thing  rose 
p  into  his  throat  and  nearly  choked  him  * 
nd  so  he  suffered  much  inconvenience  until 
le  consulted  a  herbalist  at  Bradford,  whose 
reatment  was  so  successful  that  the  eight- 
^ed  creature  is  now  on  view  at  the  ner- 
Muist's,  preserved  in  a  bottle  of  spirits. 

My  informants,  who  are  in  a  position  to 
know,  say  that  these  stories,  related  in  all 
wrioasness  to  them,  would  be  fully  believed 
by  a  large  majority  of  the  population  in  the 
nwghbourhood.  J.  T.  F. 

Dorham. 

St.  Patrick^s  Day.— Twelve  months  ago, 
by  Qaeen  Victoria's  command,  all  Irish  regi- 
ments and  Irishmen  serving  in  the  army 
were  permitted  to  wear  the  shamrock,  and 
Sunday  last  being  the  first  St.  Patrick's  Day 
parade  of  the  Royal  Irish  Guards  since  their 
formation,  both  officers  and  men  wore  sprigs 
of  shamrock  on  church  parade.  On  their 
Jjetum  from  the  service  they  found  that  Oueen 
Alexandra  had  thoughtfully  sent  four  ooxes 
containing  shamrock  to  be  distributed  to  the 
''jen.  The  men  at  once  removed  the  sprigs 
Jbeyhad  in  their  coats,  placing  those  received 
from  the  (Jueen  in  their  stead.  By  command 
of  the  King  a  sprig  was  sent  to  him  from 
Covent  Garden.  This  was  the  four -leaved 
*JMunrock,  which  is  supposed  to  have  a  special 
significance.  Perhaps  some  readers  of  *  N.  &  Q.' 
can  enlighten  us  further  in  regard  to  this. 
A  wreath  of  shamrock,  by  special  permission 
of  the  King,  was  placed  on  the  sarcophagus 
of  Queen  Victoria  at  Frogmore  by  the  Royal 
Monster  Fusiliers.  The  deputation  consisted 
of  General  J.  W.  Laurie,  M.P.,  Col.  Johnston, 
Capt.  Macpherson,  and  Sergeant  CuUilane 

N.  S.  S. 

An  Early  Reminiscence:  1837.— Let  me 
chronicle  a  retrospect  of  more  than  sixty- 
wjree  years,  though  rather  faint  and  indistinct. 
^  Sunday,  18  July,  1837,  when  only  a  child 
w  «ix  years  of  age,  I  accompanied  my  father, 
]fho  resided  at  Congleton  in  Cheshire,  to 
i^don,  distant  168  miles,  then  an  event  in 
•ny  one*8  life.  We  left  at  10.30  p,m,  in  a 
«^  called  the  Bed  Rover,   which  started 


from  Manchester,  and  we  had  secured  inside 
places.  The  coach  ran  through  Newcastle- 
under- Lyme,  Stone,  Tam worth,  and  Lichfield, 
arriving  in  the  morning  at  Coventry,  ninety- 
one  miles  from  London,  where  we  breakfasted. 
The  journey  was  then  pursued  vul  Daventry, 
Towcester,  and  Stony  Stratford  ;  and  then, 
on  a  lovely  summer  afternoon,  we  arrived  in 
London,  having  seen  the  great  city  from 
Highgate  Hill. 

We  put  up  at  the  "  Golden  Cross/'  ('haring 
Cross,  then  a  noted  inn  for  coach  travellers  ; 
and  well  do  I  remember  the  bedroom  looking 
out  upon  the  extensive  stables  and  the  back 
of  St.  Martin's  Church.  The  coffee-room 
was  fitted  up  with  boxes,  and  the  little  tables 
in  them  were  firmly  screwed  down.  Dickens 
has  given  a  graphic  description  of  this  inn  of 
about  the  same  date  in  *  David  Copperfield.' 
David  gets  but  poor  accommoflation  until  he 
meets  with  his  friend  Steerforth,  who  insists 
upon  better  quarters  being  found  for  him. 
The  interview  between  David  and  Peggotty 
occurs  in  the  same  room,  and  Little  Enrly  is 
represented  as  listening  on  the  outside— a 
scene  which  Phiz  has  ofepicted.  Since  1837 
I  have  never  entered  the  "Golden  Cross," 
though  I  have  often  been  tempted  to  do  so, 
to  see  what  alterations  have  been  made. 

On  20  June  in  that  year  the  great  bell  of 
St.  Paul's  had  announced  the  decease  of 
William  IV.,  the  last  son  of  George  III.  who 
was  ever  to  reign  in  Great  Britain  ;  and  the 
proclamation  of  Oueen  Victoria  followed 
shortly.  William  iV.  was  always  a  popular 
king,  and  I  can  remember  a  very  favourite 
song  in  those  days— who  the  author  was  I 
do  not  know,  but  the  song  began  : — 
The  King  is  a  true  British  sailor 

As 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 

Newbourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

[The  ** Golden  Cross"  of  which  you  speak  is  not 
now  in  existence.] 

Newspaper  and  Magazine  Statistics. — 
The  *  Newspaper  Press  Directory '  for  1901 
gives  some  interesting  statistics.  There  are 
now  published  in  the  Tnited  Kingdom  2,488 
newspapers,  distributed  as  follows  :— 


England- 
London 
Country 

Wales     ... 

Scotland... 

Ireland    ... 

Isles 


456 

1,488-1,944 

108 

235 

181 

20 


Of  these  there  are  196  daily  papers  published 
in  England,  7  in  Wa\fe»,  \^  Va  §)QiO\\»JcA>'i^VDL 
Ireland,  and  5  \t\  t\\e  T^t\V,\^\\\^\«9..    '^V^  ^^wN. 
edition  of  the'DuecUirj'  ^\^^>)Tfb«ycek^\w\}cv%X 


224 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9«»  s.  vil  march  23,  iwi. 


year  in  the  United  Kinedom  551  journals ; 
of  these  14  were  issued  daily— viz.,  12  in 
England  and  2  in  Ireland.  Of  those  now 
established  and  circulated  no  fewer  than 
247  are  issued  daily.  The  press  of  the 
country  has  more  than  quadrupled  during 
the  last  fifty-five  years.  The  increase  in 
daily  papers  has  been  still  more  remarkable, 
the  daily  issues  standing  at  247,  as  against  14 
in  1846. 

There  are  now  published  in  the  United 
Kingdom  2,446  magazines,  of  which  at  least 
536  are  of  a  decidedly  religious  character. 
In  1846  it  is  estimated  that  only  200  maga- 
zines were  in  existence.  The  journalist  has 
a  great  responsibility,  for  he  can  say,  "  Quae 
regio  in  terris  nostri  non  plena  laboris?" 

Editor. 

El  Conde  de  Caserta. — As  a  correspond- 
ent of  the  Royal  Academy  of  History  at 
Madrid,  I  venture  to  correct  some  mistakes 
which  any  Spaniard  would  observe  at  once  in 
reading,  m  the  Times  of  16  February,  the 
leading  article  on  the  royal  marriage  cele- 
brated at  Madrid  on  St.  Valentines  Day. 
The  father  of  the  bridegroom  is  not  '*the 
Duke,"  but  the  Conde^  t.c,  Count  or  Earl,  of 
Caserta.  It  might  be  said  of  him,  but  not 
of  his  son,  **he  has  borne  arms  on  the  Carlist 
side,  and  was  once  responsible  for  a  Carlist 
proclamation."  Lower  down  the  son,  now 
consort  of  the  heiress  apparent  to  the  throne 
of  Spain,  is  described  as  the  Carlist  prince." 
But  he  nas  always  been  a  loyal  servant  to 
King  Alfonso  XIIL,  as  a  member  of  his  army. 
Moreover,  even  his  father,  nominally  pre- 
tender to  the  throne  of  Naples,  has  abjured 
Spanish  Carlism  in  practice. 

E.  S.   DODGSON. 

Blue  Beard.  —The  Daily  News  of  28  Feb. 
gives  the  following  account  of  Comte  Qilles  de 
Hais  (who  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  original 
of  the  legendary  Barbe  Bleue),  which  may  be 
worth  while  rescuing  from  the  unindexed 
columns  of  a  daily  newspaper.  The  para- 
graph gives  a  fairly  full  description  ot  the 
tacts,  but  does  not  explain  clearly  how  the 
Comte  became  accused  of  wife- murder.  The 
sacrifice  to  the  devil  is  not  alluded  to  in 
the  English  version  of  the  legend  :— 

'*M.  Lelire  furnishes  an  interesting  paper  on 
Blue  Beard  to  the  Revue  des  Revues,  That  legendary 
person  was,  he  says,  no  mere  wife-murderer.  We 
all  know  that  his  real  style  and  title  was  Comte 
Gilles  de  Rais,  but  it  is  new  to  us  that  he  was,  for 
his  time  and  from  youth  upwards,  a  man  of  ex- 
quisite culture.  He  was  first  married  at  the  age 
of  sixteen  in  1420,  and  celebrated  his  wedding  by 
theatrical  mysteriea  at  Angers.  The  subiect  was 
the  'PasaioD  of  Christ,*  and  the  author  ol  tVi© 
iiiMlogues  WM  the  Bishop  of  Angers.    Two  canoTv^ 


Slayed  the  parts  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  and  St.  Mary 
[agdalen.  The  names  of  the  dramatis  peraonoi  were 
placarded  on  the  breasts  of  the  players.    Lawyers' 
clerks  were  engaged  in  the  minor  parts,  and  then 
there  were  dancing  girls  brought  at  great  expeow 
from  Spain.    The  success  of  the  Angers  mysterieg 
was  such  that  Gilles  de  Rais  set  up  as  an  impre- 
sario, trained  a  company  of  players  and  dancing 
gvpsies,  and  went  round  the  west  of  France  with 
tnem,  stopping  at  all  the  great  towns  and  castki. 
His  farcical  plays  and  ballets  became  the  rute.  Hib 
favourite  mystery  in  after  years  was  '  The  Siege  of 
Orleans,'  in  which  he  made  his  cUbut  as  an  actor. 
It  was  a  grand  scenic  drama,  and  he  himself  wai 
the  hero,  which,  it  appears,  was  not  claiming  too 
much.    The  cost  was  so  greAt  of  horses,  housmgi, 
costumes,  musicians,  fireworks,  and  machinery  tut 
he   soon  found  himself   ruined.     His  nextHjf-kiii 
obtained    a   decree   withdrawing    from    him  tin 
management  of  his  estates.     He  then  became  the 
legendary  Blue  Beard.    Probably  to  hide  the  mowi 
otadvancing  years,  he  dyed  his  hair  and  beard.  At 
any  rate,  he  plunged  into  alchemy  to  recover  hii  lost 
fortune,  *  raised  tne  devil'  by  his  incantations,  and 
sacrificed  to  him  the  hearts  of  his  successive  wives 
and  of  the  village  children  near  his  castle.   Blue 
Beard  was  at  the  siege  of  Orleans  with  Joan  of  Arc, 
and  went  there  with  her  from  Tours.    He  mav  hsve 
thought  that  she  dealt  in  the  Black  Art,  ana  owed 
to  it  ner  success  in  bringing  Charles  VII.  to  RheimL 
But  in  his  play  he  allowed  her  but  little  of  the 
glory  of  forcing  the  English  to  raise  the  siege." 

JOHK  HiBB. 
[The  life  of  Gilles  de  Raiz,  or  de  Retz,  Maishil 
of  France,  is  given  in  the  *  Biographies  G^n^rales'  of 
Hoefer  and  Michaud,  and   the  particulars  of  hii 
strange  career  are  to  be  found  in  other  workal 

"Zareba"  or  "Zeriba."— This  word  htf 
l)ecome  so  well  known  of  late  that  g6(>| 
graphers  apply  the  expression  "ZarebaLancL 
or  "Zareba  Country."  to  the  northern  slope  of 
the  Nile-Congo  divide.  The  *  Encvclojiedic 
Dictionary '  says  of  it :  "A  word  which  came 
into  use  in  the  early  part  of  1884,  during  the 
military  operations  in  Egypt,  to  denote  w 
enclosure.  The  date  ^ven  must,  however, 
be  taken  as  that  at  which  the  word  beaunj 
general  in  English,  rather  than  that  at  whicb 
it  came  into  use.  as  I  find  it  in  use  long  beft»«i 
in  an  old  perioaical,  Miza  Cook*s  Journal  fof 
March,  1862,  in  an  article  entitled  *Sl»ve 
Hunts  of  Dar  Wadey  and  Dar  Four.'  The 
quotation  is  as  follows:  "The  Sultan  h»« 
planted  a  zerybeh,  or  circular  enclosure  with 
two  issues."  J  AS.  Platt,  Jon. 

Lizard  Folk-lore.— -The  folio  wing  extracts 
from  an  old  note-book,  relating  to  sup©*"' 
stition  in  India  regarding  lizards,  were.  1 
think,  contributed  by  Mr.  Vidal,  of  the 
Indian  Civil  Service,  to  the  Pioneer  many 
years  ago,  and  were  noted  by  me  at  the  tim^  • 

"  Hindus,  whether  they  believe  any  linrd  Ip  b« 
vetvorcvoxsAQT  tloXi^VaiN^  «om.e  wonderful  snpantittoo* 


II.  Mart,,  23.  ipoi.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


225 


9.fn  m  which  a  lizard  can  {yreftetit  itself  to 
jy,  wife  t»r  nvard,  are  so  mftiiy  in  number, 
iftt  Uke  a.  man  or  woman  all  his  or  her  life 
ham.  Men  will  be  glifcd  to  hear  that  if  a 
li  on  their-  noeee.  it  h  lucky,  Bnt  the 
ine  betwWn  joy  and  p^ief  ia  ho  very  thin 
w  lizftrd  touches  the  tip  of  the  noae  the 
extremdv  calami  to  ua.  Men  alao  may  or 
le  pleiMieci  to  hear  that  if  a  lizard  falls  on 
cheelc  they  will  be  blessed  with  a  pi^ht 
deeeaaed  relations.  But  the  Uickicjit 
ftll  ui  for  a  lizard  to  f&tl  on  the  Bote 
Th  foot,  for  then  all  hi«  enemies  will 
mh.  This  is  an  event  which  I  fear 
ely  to  happen  to  many  of  uBj  unleaa  we 
*  st&nd  on  our  heads.  Ladiea  will  be 
now  that  if  a  lizard  falls  on  their  left 
y  will  nieot,  not  their  decea^sed  rel&tivea, 
E»eloved.  There  will  be  mi^ry  if  one  falU 
jght  eye ;  but  £trtt^^wi^<3Wa  ma^  be  ooa^ 
he  thought  that  a  lizard  on  their  left  eye 
in  Bi^  that  they  will  in*Mjt  their  abaent 
Lai*tly»  immense  wealth  and  a  son  are 
ho«e  left  foot  a  liiard  falls ;  and  she  will 
^min  if  one  falls  on  her  toe-nails.'* 

J.    H.  RrVETT'CARNAa 
STITI0N8     RELATrxa     TO    AkTMALS    IK 

As  a  pendaQt  to  the  lizard  auper^ 
the  following  further  extracts  from 
book  may  be  of  interest  They  were, 
tiblwhed  nearly  thirty  years  ago  in 
ntal  S/iort£nef  Mafjazine^  and  were 
J  taken  down  from  the  mouth  of  an 
sd  "  native  :— 

I  blood  useful  for  young  infant.  When 
attiM^ked  with  o^e,  t ho  blood  and  some 
nilk  mi^ed  tO)^etber  and  given  to  drink  to 
,  the  aicknesii  will  go. 
monkey  is  useful  for  magic.  The  monkey 
led  on  Snndny.  Drink  a  tittle  blood«  take 
ri  and  make  to  c^\\  The  magic  could  not 
t  man. 

?k't  leg  useful  for  deaf  man-  It  mav  be 
h  oil,  and  when  any  fjerson  i-oidd  not  hear 
the  oil  will  be  dropped  a  little  into  the 
an  w^ill  be  (mred, 

leful  for  a  woman.  This  will  lie  killed  on 
Take  out  both  eyes.  The  left  will  be 
the  right  OS  welL  Keep  the  dust  of  the 
ow  some  of  the  dust  on  a  w'oman*s  gar- 
d  she  will  love  you ;  and  when  you  want  to 
f  her,  til  row  dust  of  left  eye,  and  ahe  will 
off  by  pronouncing  some  magic  words, 
farniant  atltrms  thai  a  wolf -skin  ttossesses 
a€)  in  thi^  way.  If  a  man  with  a  tom-tom 
ide  of  wolf-akjn  proceeds  to  a  1:1  lace  where 
enemy  is  f«rforming  on  one  uiEuk^  of  sheep- 
he  ordinary  manner,  and  commences  to 
eoemy^s  instrument  is  at  onco  silenced, 
lan  can  make  it  emit  soimd  whilst  the 
vibralea," 

J.  H,  Rivett-Cabkac. 

Edwabd  Vn/s  Title  ik  Sootlanb. 
House  of  Commons  on  Monday  lagt 
k  winhed  to  know  whether,  in  view  of 
Umt  no  iiovarei^n  baan'/?^  the  name 
fti  had  hitherto  reigned  in  Scotland, 


injitmctlons  would  be  given  to  omit  the  wordw 
"  the  Seventh  "  in  all  document^n  running  in 
the  name  of  Hia  Most  Gracious  Majesty  King 
E<lward  relating  to  Scotland  alone,  Mr. 
■J.  A.  Dewar  called  attention  to  the  fact  that 
the  oath  of  allegiance  taken  by  hon.  members 
waa  to  King  Edward,  and  not  to  King 
Eflward  VIl. :  and  Mr  Pirie  asked  whether,  if 
a  rigorous  rule  were  enforced  an  to  the  wonia 
"the  Seventh,"  a  precedent  would  not  be 
created  which  had  not  been  adhered  to  in  the 
similar  case  of  Willianj  IV.  Mr.  G.  Murray 
—the  Lord  Advocate— in  replyi  fitat^d  that 
it  had  been  decided,  after  full  consideration, 
that  His  Majesty's  title  shall  be  given  a» 
Edward  VII.,  and  that  writs  paH^^ing  the 
Signet  and  other  documents  running  in  the 
name  of  the  Crown  in  Scotland  shall  hear 
that  title.  In  the  time  of  William  IV.  sum- 
mon aes  always  ran  in  the  name  of  William  IV., 
and  the  Lord  Advocate  candidly  confessed 
that  he  had  in  vain  endeavoured  to  ^nd  a 
Scottish  grievance  in  the  matter.  His 
Majesty  was  proclaimed  EdwanI  VIL,  and  it 
would  oe  inconvenient  to  have  at-atute«  of 
Edward  VIl.  cited  in  Scotland  as  statutes  of 
Edward  L  A.  N,  Q. 

Akabs  and  Odd  Numbers.  —  Sometimea 
in  the  quiet  of  roy  own  study  I  smile 
at  the  absurd  fancies  of  other  men,  for- 
getting that  I  too  cannot  plead  aljsolnte 
mim unity.  I  used  to  know  a  very  worthy 
gentleman  who  never  atirred  abroad  without 
carrying  a  piece  of  coal  in  his  pocket  for  luck,  ^ 
yet  ne  invariably  threw  it  away  the  moment 
ne  sat  down  to  take  a  hand  at  whist  or 
cnbbage'  Another  had  a  mortal  aversion  to 
a  baby^s  crying  at  breakfast  time  ;  this  spelt 
bad  luck  for  him  the  whole  day,  Jewish  dames 
of  a  bygone  school  went  continually  in  fear 
of  the  evil  em  To  countei-act  its  attacks 
upon  their  offspring  they  resorted  to  many 
devices,  among  which  were  the  quasi -religious 
ones  of  tacking  "  meauxoun  "  (chat ins)  to  the 
lintels  of  the  door  way  si,  and  of  fixing 
^'caraires"  round  their  children's  throats. 
Now  my  own  idiosyncrasy  is  in  favour  of 
odd  numbers.  How  I  acquired  the  barm- 
lea"?  tmssion  happenetl  in  this  way.  Among 
ray  schoolfellows  was  a  Turkish  lacJ,  who  was 
the  iirst  to  point  out  to  me  a  curirms  law  of 
numliers.  We  would  take  a  strinf^  of  fig  urea 
at  random,  which  we  added  up  in  line  tiU 
they  totted  to  a  resultant  number  nine  or  not 
If  tney  "showed  up"  nine  we  declared  them 
lucky  ;  if  not,  not.  For  example,  take 
numbers  187245=^  \  b^t  txaitoV^X'^  X^'^^^^. 
So  ingrained  is  t\\m  me«jv\'a^esift  \\^\V^*^ 
I  never  buy  &  raW^a^  t\cVfe^  nsiV^Vq^V  ^ssi;^ 


226 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9- s-vilmakch  23.1901. 


mitting  its  number  to  this  ridiculous  scrutiny. 
Many  a  time  I  have  puzzled  myself  as  to  the 
origin  of  this  silly  habit ;  yet  it  would  appear 
that  the  affection  for  number  nine  displayed 
by  this  lad  reached  Turkey  vid  Arabia.  Ac- 
cording to  the  anonymous  author  of  'Table 
Talk;  published  in  1836  by  Charles  Knight, 
long  residence  in  Cairo  by  the  famous 
traveller  J.  L.  Burckhardt  had  also  rendered 
him  susceptible  to  the  strange  fascination  of 
odd  numbers.  He  spent  many  years  collecting 
a  storehouse  of  Arabian  sayings  illustrative 
of  the  manners  and  customs  of  this  en- 
lightened people,  but,  strange  to  say,  he 
stopped  short  at  the  number  999,  **  adopting," 
says  my  authority,  *'a  notion  prevalent  among 
the  Arabs  that  even  numbers  are  unlucky, 
and  that  anythinp;  perfect  in  its  quantity 
is  particularlv  affected  by  the  evil  eye." 
Whereupon  the  writer  proceeds  to  give  an 
instance  that  came  under  his  own  notice.  At 
that  time  there  lived  in  Islington  a  wealthy 
cowkeeper  named  Rhodes,  wno  made  many 
futile  attempts  to  keep  1,000  cows  on  his 
premises  in  a  thriving  condition  at  one 
time,  but  was  invariably  baffled.  He  could, 
however,  keep  999  without  exTOriencing  any 
loss  of  stock.  A  similar  prejuaice  the  author 
discovered  to  prevail  in  his  joumeyings 
through  the  remoter  districts  of  France,  Spain, 
Italy,  and  Switzerland.  Jews  have  for  ages 
paid  special  veneration  to  the  number  seven 
and  its  multiples,  though  a  strong  partiality 
for  minyan,  or  number  ten,  has  b^n  fostered 
by  the  Kabbis  in  the  dicta  of  '  Ethics,'  vi.  9. 
Tnus  prayer  is  impossible  in  synagogue 
without  a  quorum  of  ten.  I  was  teld  a  runny 
story  about  this  the  other  day  by  a  scholarly 
contributor  to  *N.  <k  Q.*     Some  years  ago, 


bein^  in  Prague,  he  strolled  one  Sabbath 
evening  inside  the  old  synagogue  to  have  a 
quiet  look  round.  Suddenly  the  voice  of 
prayer  startled  him  out  of  his  musings.  The 
oeadle  had  mistaken  him  for  a  regular 
worshipper  who  was  late  in  arriving  to  form 
the  regulation  number  or  minyan, 

M.  L.  R.  Bbeslar. 

"  Loo."— I  do  not  know  whether  the  follow" 
ing  meaning  of  log  has  yet  been  recorded 
besides  that  of  a  ship's  log  or  the  American 
expression  log-rolling.  Judging  by  the  emi- 
nent architect's  commendation  of  the  rule,  it 
might  be  described  as  a  kind  of  beneficent 
Ring  Log  in  trade.  In  Mr.  T.  Blashill's 
thoughtful  paper  before  the  Surveyors'  In- 
stitution on  25  February  {Transactions^ 
vol.  xxxiii.  part  vi),  the  following  paragraph 
occurs  on  p.  231  ;— 
"In  the  tailoring  trade,  among  othetB,  there  \a  s. 
contrivance  myateriousXy  called  a  'log.'    The  l«k\\oi 


works  either  on  day-work  or  on  piece-work,  bat  his 
l>iece-work  is  done  under  the  disguise  of  day-work, 
at  so  much  per  hour.  Every  part  of  a  garment  has 
l>een  valued  and  estimated  in  time,  and  is  paid  for 
by  the  artificial  hour.  If  he  finishes  a  *  daVs  work  * 
in  advance  of  the  clock,  he  can  leave  with  nis  day's 
pay.  If  he  is  hehind  the  clock,  he  must  put  in  more 
t  ime.  But,  as  I  understand,  he  cannot  he  sweated 
in  a  fair  shop  that  adopts  the  log.  There  is  no 
individual  bargaining.  In  arranging  for  day-work 
the  wage  varies  according  to  individual  aptitude, 
both  parties  ha  vine  in  their  mind  some  reference  to 
the  cost  of  work  oy  the  log.  I  see  no  insuperable 
difficulty  in  devising,  for  any  branch  of  the  building 
iadustry,  a  log  that  may  act  as  a  standard  day.'' 

FRiLNcis  P.  March  ANT. 

'Thomas  Fletcher  (1664-1718X  Poet,' Ac. 
— Under  this  heading  in  the  *Dict.  Nat. 
Biog.,'  vol.  xix.  p.  321,  two  distinct  persons 
are  evidently  confused,  viz., 

1.  Thos.  Fletcher,  of  Wirley  Magna,  Staf- 
fordshire :  born  1664 ;  married  Catherine, 
widow  of  Thos.  Richards  of  Cannock ;  died 
1718.  See  further  Burke's  '  Landed  Gentry,' 
ninth  edition,  vol.  i.  p.  526. 

2.  Thos.  Fletcher,  D.D.Oxon.  1707,  author 
of  *  Poems  on  Several  Occasions ,'  Lon- 
don. 1692,  Svo  (see  Brit.  Mus.  Cat.  Printed 
Books),  who  became  second  master  (1701) and 
Fellow  (1711)  of  Winchester  College,  and  to 
whom  apparently  the  biography  was  meant 
to  relate.  Owing  to  the  confusion,  the  details 
of  his  parentage,  birth,  marriage,  issue,  and 
rleath  are  all  given  wrong.  He  was  buried 
on  12  August,  1713,  in  Winchester  Cathedral, 
where  on  the  floor  of  the  nave  there  is  a 
long  monumental  inscription  to  him,  ending 
thus : — 

Natus  Avingtonise  prope  Win  ton.      1666. 

Ecclesiae  Wellensis  Prebendarius       1696. 

Scholse  Winton.  Didascalus  1701. 

Obiit  1713. 

It  has  been  said  that  he  married  **a 
daughter-in-law  of  Mr.  Masters,  formerly 
Fellow  of  New  College,  and  afterwards 
parson  of  Holton,  near  Oxon."  (Hearne's 
'Collections,'  by  Doble,  Oxford  Hist.  Soc., 
vol.  i.  p.  291).  This  "  Masters"  was  William 
Master,  rector  of  Holton  1684-1703  (Foster's 
*  A.  O.,  1500-1714,'  p.  987,  No.  4),  of  whose 
family  some  details  are  given  in  Hasted's 
'Kent,'  vol.  iv.  p.  122,  n.  (a),  and  who  appears 
lis  a  scholar  (1662)  in  Kirby's  *  Winchester 
Scholars.'  Mr.  Kirby  seems  to  err  in  stating 
that  he  became  rector  of  "Halton,  Bucks. 
The  reference  by  Mr.  Doble  {uhi  supra,  p,  389) 
to  the  elder  brother,  Edward  Master,  D.CL., 
the  civilian,  is  probably  a  mistake. 

Thos.  Fletcher,  D.D.,  had  three  sons,  who,  , 
like  their  father,  were  Winchester  schdars,  ^ 
v*\z.,'YVvom«i&,^Vvo\Qecame  Bishop  of  Dromot%^ 


9^  SVn.  March  23. 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


227 


Dean  of  Kildare,  1746  ;  and  William,  who  on 
Philip's  death  in  1765  succeeded  to  the 
deanery  of  Kildare.  See  further  Cotton's 
•Fasti  Eccl.  Hibem.'  and  Kirby's  'Win- 
chester Scholars';  but  Cotton  erred  in 
saying  (vol.  v.  p.  146)  that  the  brothers 
Thomas  and  Philip  were  father  and  son  (cf. 
Gent.  Mag,,  1780,  p.  123).  And  Mr.  Kirby 
seems  to  err  in  saying  that  William  was 
Prebendarv  of  Durham  :  he  was  Preben- 
dary of  Christ  Church,  Dublin,  and  also  of 
St  Patrick's,  Dublin.  H.  C. 


Ws  mast  request  oorrespondents  desirixijif  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct.  

VOYAGBS  AND  •  TRAVELS  IsSUED  ANONY- 
MOUSLY.—Will  the  authors  of  the  under- 
mentioned works  (or  their  representatives) 
favour  me  with  the  writers'  names,  for  use  in 
my  *  Bibliography  of  Australasia'  ]— 

Lives  and  Vosrages  of  Drake,  Cavendish,  and 
Dampier.    Edinburgh,  1831. 

Circam  navigation  of  the  Globe.  Edinburgh, 
I896u 

Perils,  Pastimes,  and  Pleasures  of  an  Emigrant. 
By  J.  W.  [?  Wyldl    London.  1849. 

Reoollections  of  a  Ramble  from  Sydney  to  South- 
wpton.     London,  1851. 

Diary  of  Travels  in  Three  Quarters  of  the  Globe. 
liy  ao  Australian  Settler.    2  vols.    London,  1856. 

life  and  Adventures  in  the  South  Pacific  By 
^  Roving  Printer.    New  York  [and  London],  1861. 

^bin  and  Gushing  both  ascribe  this  last 
^ork  to  John  B.  Jones,  of  Baltimore  and 
Philadelphia.  It  is  an  account  of  a  whaling 
cruise  in  the  Emily  Morgan,  of  New  Bedford, 
1849-54.  Allibone  does  not  give  this  work 
to  J.  B.  Jones,  but  credits  him  with  several 
others  published  during  the  period  of  the 
Toyage  when  (?)  he  would  have  been  absent. 

A  Cruise  in  the  Pacific,  from  the  Log  of  a  Naval 
OflScer.  Edited  by  Capt.  Fenton  Ayuner.  2  vols. 
London,  186a 

The  '*  Mary  Ira  ":  Narrative  of  a  Yachting  Expe- 
dition.   By  J.  K.  M.  [?Munro].    i^ndon,  1%7. 

Twelve  Years'  Life  in  Australia,  1859-71. 
P  London,  1872.1 

,  Olimpaea  of  Life  in  Victoria.     By  a  Resident 
imrs.  J.  H.  Kerrl    EdinburKh,  1872. 

Rouffh  Notes  of  Journeys  in  Syria Australasia, 

«c,  1888-73.    London.  1875. 

Sketches  of  Australian  Life  and  Scenery.  By  a 
Thirty  Years'  Resident.    London,  1876. 

Um  die  Welt  ohne  zu  Wolleu.     WiirzburK,  1881. 
^  In  Soatlieni  Seas,  a  Trip  to  the  Antipodes.    By 
"PetroL"    Bdinborgh,  18&. 
.  Farthest  East,  Honth,  and  West.    By  an  AngJo- 
^ikdiaa  Globe  Trotter.    London,  1S92, 


Seventy  Years  of  life  in  the  Victorian  Era, 
embracing  a  Travelling  Record  in  Australia,  &c. 
London,  1893. 

Parts  of  the  Pacific.  By  a  Peripatetic  Parson. 
London,  1896. 

E.  A.  Petherick. 

Streatham. 

An  American  Invasion.— In  a  new  and 
costly  book,  written  by  an  Englishman  of 
high  repute,  printed  by  one  of  the  foremost 
English  firms,  and  issued  by  publishers  of 
well- won  position,  I  find  such  terrible  ortho- 
graphic heresies  as  theater,  center,  fiber,  tra- 
veler, (fee.  With  these  things  I  have  to  put 
up  in  books  printed  in  America ;  I  have  not 
previously  seen  them  in  books  of  English 
genesis.  Who  is  responsible  for  so  deplorable 
an  innovation— the  author,  Sir  Walter  Besant. 
or  the  printers,  Spottiswoode  &  Co. ;  and 
what  can  be  done  to  resist  so  objectionable  an 
invasion?  H.  T. 

Brawling.— Are  Dissenting  places  of  wor- 
ship protected  against  brawling  in  the  same 
way  as  churchesY  A.  N.  Q. 

The  Orb.— I  shall  be  obliged  if  you  or  any 
of  your  readers  will  inform  me  what  the  orb, 
carried  by  the  sovereign  in  his  left  hand, 
symbolizes.  E.  Hulton. 

[As  a  symbol  of  sovereignty  the  orb  or  g^lobe  is  of 
Roman  origin.  It  appears  in  a  Pomi^eian  wall- 
painting  representing  Jupiter  enthroned,  and  also 
m  sculpture.  It  presumably  symbolizes  the  govern- 
ment of  the  globe,  or  universal  empire.] 

"Capt.  Rock."— Can  any  of  your  i*eaders 
direct  me  to  an  Irish  book  of  legends  dealing 
with  the  history  of  "Capt.  Rock"?  Daniel 
Maclise  painted  a  well-known  picture,  en- 
titled *The  Installation  of  Capt.  Rock.*  I 
am  not  certain  whether  Capt.  Rock  is  a 
legendary  or  an  actual  personage. 

J.  A.  Cooling. 

[It  was  a  fictitious  name  assumed  by  the  leaders 
of  certain  Irish  insurgents  in  1822.1 

"  As  RIGHT  AS  A  TRIVET."— I  ask  the  ongin 
of  this  phrase,  so  often  used. 

The  Unmistakable. 

[The  trivet,  to  be  a  good  one,  must  be  right- 
angled.    See3^8.zi.  360,361.] 

Odd  Numbers.  —  It  is,  I  suppose,  idle  to 
ask  for  the  origin  of  the  belief  held  by  the 
famous  Brian  O  Linn  that  there  is  "  luck  in 
odd  numbers,"  but  has  any  plausible  reason 
been  given  for  it?  Mr.  Warde  Fowler 
C  The  Roman  Festivals,'  p.  3,  note)  refers  to 
Schwegler  for  information  on  the  Hub\e(Cit^ 
but  I  have  not  accean  to  t\v\a  ^i\\«t,  \Vcvw 
the  explanation  givoum  Dt,^t^^«^^''^^si^' 


228 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.   [9«»s.vn.MABCH  23.1901. 


of  Fhra.He  and  F'able,'  but  thiw  refera  only  to 
Pythagoran,  with  whom  the  idea  in  not  now 
Hup  posed  to  have  oriKinatetl.  C.  C.  B, 

[See  '  Araba  aikd  Odd  Numbers/  an/e,  p.  !^.] 

Author  op  YEimES  Wajnteb.— A  snaall  MS, 
book  in  a  private  collection^  entitled  'Ane 
Example   Booke  as  Folio wis^   1617/  haa  on 
each  leaf  a  large  capital  letter  drawn  and 
ornamented    id     ink     with    a    pen.      Each 
capital  letter  is  intended  to  form  the  begin- 
ning of  a  quotAtion,  pcenerally  in  verse-    The 
letter  T  has  the  following  :— 
The  preLtie  LarU  climinf^  the  vi Iking  cleir 
Ghautes  with  a  cheir,  heir,  peir.  I  ncir  my  deir 
then  stoupiii^  thence,  aeomiiig  hir  foil  to  Re  we 
Addwo  she  sayia,  &dew0  deir,  deir  ad  ewe. 

The  letter  B  has  three   versas  of  six  lines 
each.    The  first  verse  begins : — 
Breake  Jieavy  hart  and  rid  me  of  thia  ii&ma 
•    This  pa  me  thftt  still  increaaoth  day  hy  day 
By  day  with  iigbs,  kc. 

The  la'^t  verse  ends  with 
And  yet  I  live  and  liviD|;  feele  more  smart 
And  amartiag  cry  in  wa me  hreake  heavy  hart* 
The  letter  S  has 

E>t*aiti^B  Hod,  Komia  Rowm,  Natherlandis  Relief 
heavHiua  Jemi  erthis  Joy^  worldb  wonder,  naturiB 
chaif, 

eight  lines  in  all,  and  beneath 

"this  isqu'in  EUaebethia epitaf." 

Are  these  verses  known  I  B,  K,  L. 

"  GrLL'9  Lap."— This  is  a  prominent  cluster 
of  trees  on  a  hill  about  thi*ee  miles  south  of 
Hartfield,  in  Sussex.  What  is  the  meaning 
of  "Lap"!  Gill  is  supposed  to  be  derived 
from  GfuildoruSj  a  Roman  general,  buried  at 
Glynde,  near  Lewes.  Gilre  Lap  is  said  to 
have  been  one  of  his  way  posts* 

H.  G,  H. 

SiE  Anthony  Braba8oij,  —  Would  you 
kindly  inform  me  at  what  date  Sir  Anthony 
Brabason,  Bart.,  lived,  and  who  is  his 
present  representative,  as  I  see  it  stated 
that  a  Mr.  Higgins,  under  the  will  of  his 
maternal  grandfather  Sir  Anthony  Brabason, 
took  the  name  of  Brabaaon  ?  This  Higgins 
died  in  1864.  I  cannot  find  any  trace  oF  this 
Sir  Anthony  Brabaaon  in  any  genealogical 
books,  Richard  Dash  wood, 

Irish  Haeps,— In  the  *  National  Music  of 
Ireland*'  by  Michael  Uonran,  p,  214,  there  is 
a  statement  that  at  the  period  of  the  Revolu- 
tion, '*  when  lists  were  made  of  the  effectn 
or  property  of  the  proscribed  adhei-ents  of 
James  II.,  it  was  found  that  nearly  all,  even 
t/w  Anglo-Norman  families  of  the  Pale,  pos- 
ffo»ifed  one  Irish  h^vp. '"    I  am  anxious  to  know 


if  thia  list  is  printed,  and  if  so,  in  what  work; 
or  if  not  pnnted,  the  title  of  the  MS,  ana 
where  it  is  preserved*  I  shall  be  gla^l  to 
hear  of  any  really  ancient  harps  that  are 
preserved  in  country  houses  in  Ireland  or 
Scotland-  Kobert  B,  Arsistroko, 

6,  Randolph  Cliff,  Edinburgh, 

What  constitutes  a  City?  — Can  any 
reader  of  *  N,  &  Q,'  tell  rae  the  qualifications 
of  a  community  which  entitle  it  to  be  galled 
a  city  in  England  —  putting  aside  the  new 
method  of  creating  such  by  letters  patent 
under  the  Great  Se%l  ?  Does  a  city  cease  to 
be  so  if  the  bishopric  attached  to  it  has  been 
dissolved,  €.(?.,  for  nine  hundred  years!  la 
Westminster  a  city  because  it  has  been  an 
episcopal  see,  or^  because  it  is  so  styled  in 
writs  from  the  Crown  ?    R.  F.  J.  Bawter, 

ChriBt  Church,  Ok  on, 

tOoasiilt  *H,E.D,*  under  'City,*  See  abo  3^  S. 
ii.  25  and  7**^8.  vii,  427.] 

Maeat,  (See  2"^'  S,  viii,  2m.}-C&n  W,  B,  C^ 
Li%*erpool  (your  correspondent  in  1859),  or  a 
relative,  kindly  say  if  the  materials  upon 
which  was  based  the  "  investigation  lately 
taken  at  Edinburgh,"  and  reported  in  the 
Glasgow  Star  of  4  March,  1793,  are  still  in 
existence  and  can  be  seen,  or  can  anything 
still  be  learnt  concerning  them  1     Veritas. 

'*To  SIT  bodkin."— What  is  the  meaning 

of  this  phrase?  Gloucestershire. 

[The  term  is  applied  to  a  team  ol  three  hnrtei, 
two  of  which  are  abraaat  and  the  third  in  frooi^  It 
is  thence  transferred  to  the  central  fi|^re  when  three 
persona  ait  in  a  hansom  or  other  vehicle.  It  ap 
parently  Bug|e4t»  that  the  fii^re  so  seated  Bhoutd 
make  itself  nat  aa  a  bodkin  :  but  eonsult  *  E.D.O.' 
and  the  '  aE.D^  See  aim'N.  &  4/  7"-  S,  viii.  27, 
76,  )1«;  ix,  14 1  8^"  8-  xi.  mf,  354,  4^;  xii  114.] 

Roman  Steelyard  Weights.— Can  any 
one  refer  me  to  instances,  in  public  museums 
or  private  hands,  of  steelyard  weights  of 
Roman  age  in  the  form  of  male  or  femald 
heads!  I  know  of  two  in  the  British 
Museum,  of  on©  ploughed  up  in  the  parish 
of  Haversham,  ne-ar  Newport-Pagnelli  Bucks, 
and  of  another  found  on  the  cliff  at  Walton- 
on-the-Nasse,  Essex.  Are  the  la^t  two  now  in 
pu blic  in s titu tion si    If  so,  w h ere  1 

T.  Cann  Hughes,  M.A- 

Robert  John&on,  Sheripp  or  LomjoH, 
It) 1 7. —Can  any  of  your  readers  give  the 
parentage,  birthplace,  exact  date  and  the 
place  of  death,  and  tlie  correct  arms  of  the 
above ;  also  the  name  and  parentage  of  hU 
wife?  Mr.  Cokayne,  in  his  valu&Ble  work 
I* The  Lord  Mayors  and  Sheriffs  of  London: 
^VWl-\^i^a^  ^%H  ft«i^\^t«s\\U^  unable  to  furtush 


9^8.vilmaiich23,i90i.]  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


229 


these  particulars,  except  as  regards  the  arms 
— concerniDg  which,  however,  I  have  some 
doubt.  There  appears  to  be  a  difficulty  in 
the  matter,  which  it  would  be  well  to  solve, 
if  possible.  E.  C. 

"Fouleice":  "Lock Elm":  " Chincherer." 
—"Foulrice"  is  in  common  use  in  Rutland- 
shire to  designate  the  shoots  of  the 
dogwood  (Comus  sangutnea).  The  second 
syllable  is  evidently  cognate  with  the  Ger- 
man Heis^tmg,  Does  the  first  syllable  convey 
the  same  idea  as  mnauinea  ?  In  an  old  Ger- 
man dictionary  (Kaltschmidt,   1855)  I  find 

under    '  Twig  ^    "the    bloody    ,"  "  der 

rothblatterige  Kornelbaum."  And,  lastly,  is 
the  name  "  oloody  twig "  still  in  use  in  any 
Enelish  dialect  for  the  dogwood  ? 

"Lock  elm  "  is  in  common  use  in  Rutland 
to  designate  the  Ulmus  campestrts  vtminalis. 
What  is  the  etymology  of  "  lock  "  ? 

A  friend  of  mine  informs  me  that "  chin- 
cherer "  is  of  common  occurrence  in  old  East 
Anglian  registers  as  a  trade  appellation.  Is 
it  possibly  a  corruption  of  the  French  quin- 
caillin',  ironmonger  ?  G.  Christian. 

Uppingham. 


Antonio  Guadagnoli.  —  What  is  known 
about  the  above?  I  gather,  from  a  rather 
long  poem  by  him,  *  11  Naso,'  in  the  *  Teso- 
retto  della  Poesia  Italiana '  (Firenze,  G.  Bar- 
wra,editore,  1899),  that  he  flourished  between 
1798  and  1858,  and  appears  to  have  been  a 
medical  man  as  well  as  a  poet,  as  he  says  in 
the  course  of  this  poem  :— 

Adzi.  vi  ^uro  sulla  mia  parola— 

Pkrola  di  poeta  e  di  dottore, 
and  to  have  been  celebrated  for  the  extra- 
ordinary size  of  his  nose,  of  which  he  declares, 

il  qnal,  se  non  mi  gabbo 

Si  puo  chiamare  di  tutti  i  nasi  il  babbo. 

1  can  find  no  entry  with  regard  to  Gua- 
^^oli  in  the  British  Museum  Catalogue. 

John  Hebb. 

JA  short  sketch  of  Guadagnoli  will  be  found  in 
^  eighth  volume  of  the  new  edition  of  '  Meyers 
Jwi^ersations  -  Lexikon.'  His  poem  *  II  Naso  *  is 
"^ted  to  be  translated  from  Heyse.] 

Nell  Gwyn.— Can  any  of  your  readers 
Jindly  inform  me  if  there  are  any  notable 
«e8cendantfi  of  Nell  Gwyn  now  living,  and 
wie  name  of  such  ?  Curious. 

[There  is  one  ducal  family  at  least  which  owns 
^descent.] 

Mary,  Countess  de  Front.— There  is  a 
'>f»88  in  the  Roman  Catholic  church  of  Dover 
Jl^cted  to  the  memory  of  Mary,  Countess  de 
'^fOQt  It  is  Buppoaecf  that  she  was  the  sister  i 


of  Sir  Thomas  Fleetwood,  and  that  she  died 
about  sixty  years  ago.  Her  body  was  re- 
moved from  the  vaults  at  Moorfields  last 
year.  Can  any  one  put  me  in  the  way  of 
finding  out  her  history  ?  J.  E.  Laws. 

RouLSTON  Family.— I  should  be  glad  of 
any  information  about  this  family,  which 
was  of  some  importance  at  Helperby  (Braffer- 
ton),  CO.  York,  a  hundred  years  or  more  ago. 
The  Braflferton  registers  were  unfortunately 
destroyed  by  fire  in  1790.  Any  references  to 
printed  or  MS.  pedigrees  of  the  family  which 
may  be  in  existence  are  desired. 

Bernard  P.  Scattbroood. 

Moorside,  Far  Headingley,  Leeds. 


Horace  Walpole's  Letters  to  Mann.— 
While  the  new  edition  of  Horace  Walpole's 
correspondence  is  being  prepared  it  is  very 
desirable  that  the  source  of  the  published 
letters— whether  from  the  original  letters  or 
from  a  transcript,  and  if  the  latter,  from 
whose  transcript— should  bo  settled.  As  re- 
gards the  letters  to  Mann,  Lord  Dover,  in  his 
preface  to  the  first  series  of  these  letters, 
published  in  1833,  says  :— 

"  He  [Walpole]  had  them  copied  very  carefully 
in  t^ree  volumes,  and  annotated  them  with  short 
notes  explanatory  of  the  persons  mentioned  in 
them,  with  an  evident  view  to  their  eventual  pub- 
lication. It  is  from  these  volumes  that  the  present 
publication  is  taken." 

These  volumes  were  contained  in  the  box 
which  Walpole  directed  to  be  preserved  un- 
opened until  one  of  Lady  Walaegrave's  sons 
should  attain  twenty-fiveu  and  then  to  be 
delivered  to  him.  This  happened  in  1810. 
A  curious  memorandum  is  in  my  possession 
relating  to  a  collection  of  extracts  from  these 
letters,  which  were  destroyed  in  the  same 
year  1810.    It  is  as  follows  :— 

"11  Dec,,  1810.— To  Mr.  George  P.  Harding.— 
Understanding  that  the  collection  of  extracts  of 
letters  from  Lord  Orford  to  Mr.  Horace  Mann  at 
Florence  (which  extracts  were  in  the  possession  of 
my  Father,  the  late  Mr.  Kirgate,  at  his  death)  were 
not  intenaed  by  his  LordsEip  to  be  either  tran- 
scribed or  printed,  I  hereby  authorize  and  desire 
you  will  destrov  the  same  extracts  in  the  presence 
of  the  Honourable  Mrs.  Damer,  the  executrix  of  his 
Lordship.— Eleanor  Thomas. 

**  12  December,  1810.— The  extracts  above  referred 
to  were  destroyed  in  the  presence  of  us. — Anne 
Seymour  Damer,  Greorge  Perfect  Harding.  W  itness, 
M.  Hoper(?)." 

The  paper  is  endorsed,  "Memorandum  con- 
cerning the  destruction  of  extracts  of  letters 
of  Lord  Orford,  <fec.,  by  J.  Kirgate." 

This  memorandum  is,  I  think,  evidently  the 
original.    I  am  not  sure  bow  it  qaxqa  vdXa  vq^^ 
possession,  but  1  \.\iuv\l  1  loxmi^  \\.  «Aasm^^ 
some  tracts  boug\it  b^  ma  oi  '^^  ^cJto^  "^js^- 


230 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.   [9-»  a  vil  mabch  23,  iwi. 


keld,  the  well-known  bookseller,  of  306,  Clap- 
ham  Hoad. 

What  was  the  reason  why  Horace  Walpole*s  ' 
surviving  executrix  should  wish  these  extracts 
to  be  d  e  st n  >y  ed  ?  Were  t  he  ori  gi  n  al  s  d  es t roy ed 
by_  Hoi-ace  Walpulel  Did  thesao  extracts  con- 
tain pasj^ages  omitted  from  Horace  Walpole^a 
transcript  I  Walpole'B  own  preface  to  the 
letters  s^peakn  of  them  m 

**  present Bfl  to  the  reader  with  scarce  miy  ^-ariation 
or  omis^ionSt  but  what  private  friendahiijfl  and 
private  liistorsr.  tir  th«  sre&t  haste  with  which  the 
tetters  were  written  I  made  iadbpedfiably  neccsEiary*" 

J,   F.  ROTTON. 
Uodahiiini^ 

itirlils* 

JOtJRNALlSTIC  EKRORS, 
(9*^  S.  vii.  12S.) 

VouE  iiuggestion  that  blunders  of  journal- 
ists are  due  to  their  not  having  time  or  the 
nece«aary  equipment  to  be  accurate  will  be 
approved  by  all  who  have  been  behind  the 
scenes  at  a  newspaper  office,  but  a  recital  of 
some  notorious  blunders  may  guard  the  un- 
wary against  the  ridiculous  aasmnption  of 
infallibUity  affected  by  so  many  nevvapapera. 
I  do  not  allude  to  what  are  obviously  mere 
misprints,  such  as  when  the  Mominr/  Pmt 
announced  at  the  head  of  it^  fashionable 
intelligence  that  Lord  Palmei^ton  had  gone 
down  into  Hampshire  with  a  party  of  fien<]!4 
to  shoot  peasants,  but  I  refer  to  blundera  due 
to  crnss  ignorance  of  a  pietentious  order, 
Parhapai  the  best  instance  was  when  one  of  the 
** young  lions"  of  the  Daily  Teletjraph  m  a 
leading  article  on  u  me  rated  the  great  masters 
of  Greek  sculpture  as  Pheidias,  Praxiteles, 
and  Milo,  ignorant  of  the  fact  that  Milo  is 
not  a  sculptor,  but  an  island.  The  IHnms  was 
even  worse  when,  mistaking  Prussia  for 
Austria,  it  devoted  a  whole  learJer  to  dis- 
cussing why  Prussia  had  joined  theZollverein, 
The  Satu7miy  Review  once  explained  at  ^reat 
lengtli  that  the  population  might  be  nourishe^J 
gratuitously  on  young  larubii,  if  killed  un- 
weaned  before  they  had  begun  U\  crop  grass, 
having  therefore  cost  nothing  to  feed.  Many 
other  instances  will  doubtless  occur  to  your 
readerw.  Isaac  Taylok. 

The  question  propounded  here  is  ^rave  and 
charged  with  large  issues.  The  journalist 
naturally  claims  tne  privilege  of  alfusiveness 
WA  one  of  the  perquisites  of  his  craft,  and 
at  any  rate  no  pi'ote^itation  is  likely  to  have 
the  effect  of  j^s training  him  in  his  use  of  it. 
The  fHiitonal  nafe  is  very  raucli  to  the  puv- 
pone;  JQarualintM  must  produce  "  copy  "  and 


they  are  not  always  in  the  position  of  being 
able  to  verify  quotations,  even  if  their  in- 
clination would  lead  them  to  make  the 
attempt.  Unfortunately,  their  mis&ppreheii- 
sions  and  misquotations  have  in  many  cases 
the  inconvenient  quality  of  permanence* 
Both  journalists  and  novelists  contribute  to 
the  interesting  i-esults  known  as  ''  tiie  mock 
pearls  of  Hteratuie."  To  take  an  instance  at 
random  :  Miss  Thomeycroft  Fowler  speaks 
somewhere  in  *Tbe  Farringdons '  of  '*an  ode 
to  one's  mistress's  eyebrow^*'  and  '''an  od©^ 
sucli  a  phantom  composition  is  certain  to  be 
for  many  young  entliusiasts  in  the  immediate 
future.  Again,  readers  of  the  newspapers 
have  recently  talked  to  weariness  of  Chris- 
topher Smart  and  his  newl^'  discovered  *  Song 
to  David,'  They  have  received  the  im^t^saion 
from  the  reviewing  journalist  that  this  iioe© 
has  hitherto  been  absolutely  neglected— eiren, 
perhaps,  that  its  existence  was  altogether  un- 
known—and they  feel  no  necessity  for  further 
investigation.  As  a  man's  newspaper  guides 
his  politicsj  ^i  apparently  it  is  doing,  or  is 
on  the  point  of  doing,  for  his  literary  know- 
ledge  and  opinions.  He  does  not  know,  and 
prooably  does  not  care,  whether  or  not  the 
oracle  to  which  he  pins  his  faith  offers  him 
the  results  of  sudden  and  imperfect  examina- 
tion :  the  finished  product  is  before  hi  no,  aad 
it  serves  his  purpose.  Thomab  BavNE. 

Gla^gpw. 

**  Charity  would  have  saved  Dr- Johnson  from 
describing  Gray  as  'a  barren  rascal."'  Thus 
a  writer  in  the  Dailff  Jieton  for  I  March, 
under  the  heading  *Tne  Curse  of  Collins.' 
But  it  was  Fielding  the  doctor  so  described. 
Mr  A,  B^Walkley  two  years  ago  went  into  this 
very  matter  at  a  column  s  length  in  the  Daii^ 
Uhronide.  Macaulay  makees  the  same  mistake 
as  the  Dailjf  NewsBcnhe.  Sometimes  blunders 
are  due  to  printers,  proof-readers,  editors,  not 
to  writers  themselva*.  I  wonder,  for  instancei 
whether  Lewes  or  a  printer  or  proof- reader  is 
really  responsible  for  the  following  blunder  in 
the  *' prolegomena ''to  *  History  of  Philosophy,' 
p.  cxi;  **we  cannot  conceive  the  contrary  of 
a  truth  after  its  necessity  has  been  demon- 
strated, but  we  can  distinctly  conceive  that 
17+9  =  25  &€/{)re  verification," 

CEITrCASTEE- 

[la  not  (JiilTiCASTEK  wroag  in  thin  laat  instance 
and  is  not  "2a  intonded  ?J 

One  uf  the  mast  eKtraordinary  joumaJindc 
errors  I  rmnember  to  have  seen  is  the  pub 
lioatiun  in  tho  (juceft  newspaper  a  few*  weeks 
since  of  the  fior trait  of  tlic  Black  l*rinoo  as 
,  tW ''  ¥i\'^t  Vvuic<^  uf  Wales."  C,  O.  B. 


9^  s.  viL  mabch  23, 1901.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


231 


Arundbl:  Walden  (9^»»  S.  vii.  28,  155).— 

Mr,  Raikjupfe  says,  at  the  last  reference, 

that  the  derivation  of  Arun,  the  name  of  the 

river  which  runs  through  Arundel,  is  obscure. 

That  it  should  be  obscure  is  no  wonder,  as  it 

w  probably  nothing  but  a  mere  antiquarian 

figment,  invented  to  account  for  the  name  of 

Amndel.    On  old  maps  the  river  is  called  the 

Tarant,  which  is  a  corruption  of  the  name 

given  it  by  Ptolemy.    Other  river-names  are 

also  antiquarian  figments;  among  them  is 

the  Kentish  Eden,  invented  to  explain  the 

g*me  of  Edenbridge,  really  a  corruption  of 

Ead helm's  Bridge,  which  crosses  a  river  pro- 

l»bly  called  the  Avon.  The  Penk  in  Staflford- 

shire  is  also  a  ghost-name,  invented  to  account 

for  the  name  of  Penkridge,  which  is  the  Celto- 

Min penno-crucivm  (Cymric,  Pm-ycrug,  the 

^headTof  the  mount").    TheKom'is  a  name 

invented  to  explain  the  name  of  Komford, 

which     probably     means     the    "wide"    or 

roomy  '  ford.    Better-known  instances  are 

the  Cam  and   the  Isis,  on  which  our  two 

ancient  universities  stand.    The  Cam  was  a 

name  given  to  the  Granta  so  as  to  explain 

the  name  of  Cambridge,  and  the  Isis  became 

a  gh^t-name  for  the  Upper  Thames,  obtained 

oy  the  erroneous  conjecture  that  Thamesis 

'jas  a  nver  formed  by  the  junction  of  the 

inatn^  with  an  imaginary  stream  called  the 

""    Verily  the  antiquaries  are  as  guilty  as 


Isis. 


J^e  genealogists.    Sham  names  are  as  baB  as 
tne  sham  pedigrees  which  Mr.  Round  exposes. 
Isaac  Taylor. 

SuwARROPF  and  Masskna  O^*^  S.  vii.  108, 
183,  213).— M.  N.  G.  quotes  (awte,  p.  194) 
?ome  words  from  ray  mother's  book,  *  Ilome 
^  the  Nineteenth  Century.'  The  quotation 
Jf  correct,  but  M.  N.  G.  goes  on  to  say  that 
^rs.  Eaton  was  a  niece  of  Sir  Walter  Scott." 
^m  is  not  the  fact.  My  mother  was  a  great 
"end  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  and  I  have  many 
setters  from  him  addressed  to  her.  If  M.  N.  G. 
i«a8  any  desire  to  know  who  she  was,  he  can 
{worm  himself  by  obtaining  a  copy  of  *  Water- 
^  Days,'  published  by  Bell  &  Sons,  Covent 
^en.  Charles  O.  E, 

folcthorpe  Hall,  Stamford. 


liATON. 


I  FraDcesci  son  tutti  ladri ; 
Non  totti— ma  buona  parte, 


^  a  familiar 
iorm8. 


story,  and  occurs 


in    many 
H.  T. 


^Mrs.  Arbuthnot  {^^  S.  vii.  187). —  The 
^1^  Arbuthnot  inquired  about  was  tlio  wife 
!^  Mr.  Charles  Arbuthnot,  who  is  referred  to 
g  the 'Diet.  Nat.  Biog./  vol.  ii.,  and  in  Sir 
Herbert  MaxweU's  *Life  of  the  Duke  of  ^ 
"«Uuigtai^»  vol  Ii  pp.  296,  375.  R,  B, 


The 


Bishop  of  London's  Funeral  (9*^*^  S. 
vii.  89,  164).— With  reference  to  this  query, 
Fosbroke  in  his  work  on  British  monachism 
depicts  from  a  Saxon  MS.,  circa  1066,  the 
figure  of  a  bishop  holding  a  crosier ;  also 
another  figure  of  a  bishop,  painted  on  the 
walls  of  the  chapter-house  of  York  Cathedral, 
is  portrayed  holding  his  crosier  in  the  act  of 
l)enediction.  Again,  there  was  a  figure  of  a 
bishop  in  the  east  window  of  Trinity  Hall 
Chapel,  Aldersgate,  of  "St.  Basil  the  Great," 
holding  a  crosier  while  in  the  act  of  giving 
the  benediction.  In  Paul  Lacroix's  *Vie 
Militaire  et  Keli^ieuse '  is  a  plate,  engraved 
in  1522,  representing  Pope  Urban  II.  presiding 
at  the  Council  of  Clermont,  in  1095,  holding 
the  crosier  while  giving  the  benediction. 
Another  instance  appears  therein  in  a  minia- 
ture from  the  *  Chants  Royaux'  by  '*  Maistre 
Jehan  Marot"  in  a  MS.  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury. This  figure  appears  again  to  portray 
a  Pope.  Of  course,  in  the  great  majority  of 
representations  of  this  subject  bishops  are 
generally  depicted  holding  the  pastoral  staflF 
or  crook,  but  there  are  not  wanting,  apparently, 
instances  where  the  crosier  is  to  be  found.  It 
would  almost  appear,  from  the  instances  here 
quoted,  that  the  use  of  the  crosier  on  certain 
occasions  is  principally  associated  with  the 
highest  ecclesiastical  dignitaries. 

Melville. 

I  did 
bishop 

the  Fall  Mali  Gazette  as  to  this/  Though  1 
was  present,  I  could  not  see  the  archbishop 
when  the  blessing  was  given,  and  hoped  some 
other  reader  of  *  N.  &  Q.'  might  have  done  so. 
What  I  saw  was  what  Father  Angus  de- 
scribes as  being  correct,  viz.,  his  being  pro- 
ceded,  both  coming  and  going,  by  his  cross- 
bearer,  who  carried  the  cross -staff.  The 
archbishop  himself  certainly  held  nothing  of 
the  sort  then,  nor  did  I  see  any  other  attend- 
ant with  the  crosier.  But  there  might  have 
been  a  crosier  in  the  choir ;  if  not,  ne  must 
have  taken  the  cross-staff  in  his  hand  when 
blessing.  Would  not  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury  be  right  in  using  his  crasier  in 
the  diocese  of  London  whilst  the  see  was 
vacant?  As  to  the  stained -glass  and  other 
i-epresentations  of  archbishops  holding  crosses 
—including  the  archbishop  blessing  a  bell- 
founder  in  the  York  window— see  remarks 
by  J.  T.  F.  and  others  in  6"»  S.  xi.  6,  96,  192. 

Ibague. 

On  the  first  day  of  this  year  a  special  ser- 
vice for  beginning  the  nevj  c^tv^iWT-^  ^%&  \v^<\ 
in  Canterbury  Cat\\edra\,  a.V>  \v\\\e\\  \X\^  ^ixc^cv- 
bisliop  of  Canterbury  waa  pt^a^wV*  «a\^  %^n^ 


not  say  "of  myself"  that  the  arch- 
had  held  his  cross,  but  quoted  from 


232 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [»*  s.  vn.  mabch  23.  iwi. 


an  address  from  the  archiepiscopal  throne ;  ])atient'8  case  was  more  feigned  than  real,  and  aro^ 
and  at  the  close  of  the  service,  standing  in  the  «  Principallv  from  bis  apprehension  of  danger  on 
throne  with  the  cross  in  his  hand,  the  arch-    '^eachmg  London. 


bishop  pronounced  the  blessing. 

Akthur  Hussey. 
Tankerton-on-8ea,  Kent. 

Epitaph  op  John  Nichols  (9*»»  S.  vii.  189). 
— Permit  me  to  correct  an  error  in  this  querjr. 
John  Nichols,  F.S.A.,  the  apprentice  to  Wil- 
liam Bowyer,  printer,  and  subsequently  editor 
of  the  GeniUmarCs  Afagazine  for  fifty  years, 
died  on  Sunday,  26  November,  1826,  not  1827. 
which  day  fell  on  a  Monday.  He  was  buiieci 
in  Islington  Churchyard,  in  a  grave  near  to 
the  house  which  saw  his  birth,  where  the 
remains  of  his  parents  and  seven  children,  all 
of  whom  died  before  him,  are  deposited. 

EvERAKD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Simon  Fraser  (8^  S.  x.  156,  223 ;  9^»»  S.  vi. 
157,  338,  433  ;  vii.  16,  51,  75,  115,  192).— It  is 
not  easy  to  know  what  Mr.  J.  Ross  Robert- 
son means  by  the  ''picture  "of  Simon  Fraser, 
which  he  wants     If  he  wishes  to  find  an  oil 

Eicture,  I  cannot  help  him.  If  by  "  picture  " 
e  simply  means  "  portrait,"  I  can  tell  him 
that  two  prints  exist  which  represent  Simon 
Fraser  of  Lovat,  Brigadier  -  General  (ob, 
1777).  One  is  a  mezzotint  by  J.  Watson,  in 
an  oval  frame,  after  an  original  bv  J.  Scouler, 
and  was  scraped  in  the  year  after  Fraser's 
death.  The  other  is  a  medallion,  etched  by 
T.  Worlidge.  Neither  of  these,  I  believe, 
would  be  very  hard  to  find  at  one  of  the 
greater  print-dealers'  stores. 

Julian  Marshall. 

I  possess  the  whole  series  of  Hogarth's 
engravings  from  the  original  plates,  oound 
in  an  immense  volume,  which  is  interesting 
as  having  been  presented  to  my  late  father 
by  Count  d'Orsay  in  the  year  1840.  The 
explanations  of  the  subjects  of  the  plates 
are  by  John  Nichols,  Esq.,  F.S.A.  In  thife 
collection  there  is  a  full-length  portrait  of 


''Hogarth  said  himself  that  'this  portrait  was 
Ukcn  in  the  attitude  of  relating  on  his  fingers  the 
number  of  the  rebel  forces,  "  Such  a  general  had  so 
many  men,"  &c.,' and  remarked  that 'the  muscles 
i)f  Lord  Lovat's  neck  appeared  of  unusual  strength, 
more  so  than  he  had  ever  seen.' 

"  When  the  plate  was  finished  a  printseller  oflFered 
its  weight  in  gold  for  it.  The  impressions  could 
not  be  taken  off  as  fast  as  they  were  wanted,  though 
the  rolling  press  was  at  work  all  night  for  a  week 
together.  For  several  weeks  afterwards  Hogartli 
is  said  to  have  received  at  the  rate  of  twelve  pounds 
a  day." 

C.  A.  Pynb. 

35,  Beverley  Road,  Anerley. 

Allusion  in  Wordsworth  (9^  S.  vii.  188). 
—The  lady  to  whom  Wordsworth  addressed 
the  poems  '  Upon  the  birth  of  her  firstborn 
chila,  March,  1833'  (xxxii.  and  xxxiiL  of 
'  Poems  of  Sentiment  and  Reflection  *),  ^m 
his  daughter-in-law,  the  wife  of  his  eldest 
son  John,  tlien  vicar  of  Brigham.  This 
lady  was  a  member  of  the  Curwen  family  of 
Cumberland,  a  family  claiming  descent  from 
the  Saxon  kings.  This  will  explain  the 
allusion  to  "  Alfred "  in  the  passage  quoted 
by  F.  C.  John  Hutchinson. 

Middle  Temple  Library. 

Author  of  HyjiN  Wanted  (9**»  S.  vii.  188).- 

I  was  wandering  and  weary 

When  my  Saviour  came  unto  me,  &c. 

There  were  seven  verses  in  all  in  the  hymn, 
called  'The  True  Shepherd,*  which  is  by 
F.  W.  Faber.  It  is  to  be  found  in  'Hymns 
selected  from  Faber '  (London,  Daldy,  Isbister 
<fe  Co.,  56,  Ludgate  Hill,  1875),  and  might  be 
obtained  of  Mr.  Higham,  bookseller,  Y&rriDg' 
don  Street.  R.  A.  Potts. 

14,  St.  James's  Terrace,  Regent's  Park. 

rVery  numerous  replies  to  the  same  effect  are 
acknowledged.  One  of  many  copies  of  the  poem 
has  been  sent  to  Mr.  Alexander. J 

"  BoB-BAW  ! "  (9^^  S.  ii.  226,  354.)— Germa.^ 


Simon,  Lord  Lovat  [seated  in  a  chair].    Drawn  I  mothers  use  the  same  interjectional  bah-bo^ 


from  the  Life  and  Etcli'd  in  Aquafortis 'by  Will"" 
Hogarth.  Publish'd  according  to  Act  of  Parliament, 
August  25"»,  1746." 

The  size  of  the  plate  is  14  in.  by  9^  in.,  and 
the  following  description  of  it  is  given  by 
Mr.  Nichols : — 


(a  as  in  far)  or  ba-ba  (short  a),  in  order  *^ 
deter  their  babies  from  doing  somethic^  ^ 
nastv  or  tasting  some  offensive  substance.  ^ 
think  most  of  our  interjections  expressit^^ 
contempt  or  disgust  begin  with  a  labi-^^ 
sound :  bah,  jxvh,  ixih,  signify  contempt^ 
French   ft\ 


"  The  portrait  of  Simon,  Lord  Lovat,  here  riven  p/iUi\   English    fU,  French    /Sr",  disgust ;  piL^^ 

was  drawn  by  Hogarth  in  1746,  at  the  White  Hart  Englisli  pooh-pooh.  I  must  leave  it  to  physi-^^ 

Inn  in  St.  Albans,  where  his  lordship  rested  on  hia  loifist.s  t^  anomint  for  thft  natural  reason  - 
way  to  town  from  Scotland,  and  where  our  artist 


was  invited  by  Dr.  Webster,  a  physician  of  that 

place,  for  the  express  purf)ose  of  oeing  introduced 

to  his  lordship.    Hia  lordship  rested  two  or  three 

days  at  St.  Albans,  and  was  under  the  immediate 

care  of  Dr.   Webster,  who  seemed  to  think  ViVb 


account  for  the  natural  reason  • 
Dr.  Q.  Krueoer. 


logiats 
this. 
Berlin. 

^oioi  hkXLB  Jottings  (9^  S.  vi.  481).—    ^ 
T\x\a ''''  \wito  vi\\Xv  \s^\i>j  VrsKQsi»"  Iuia  left  to  w^   * 


»*8.vilmaboh23.i9oi.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


233 


quest  after  one  or  more  of  such  friends,  named 
^ce  or  Peace,  which  practically  arises  from 
the  identi^  of  that  fnend  who  gave  Charles 
Lamb  his  first  lift  in  mercantile  life. 

Elia  describes  one  such  as  Joseph  Paice.  a 
director  of  the  South  Sea  Company,  "who 
took  me  under  his  shelter  at  an  early  age 
and  bestowed  some  pains  upon  me";  see  the 
essay  on  *  Modern  Gallantry.'  A  deceased  rela- 
tive of  "Joseph  Paice  "  defines  this  as  giving 
lAmb  "  the  run  of  his  counting-house,"  a  nice 
opening  for  a  young  clerk  on  leaving  school, 
as  preparatory  for  something  better  that  might 
be  found  for  him.  Canon  Ainger  discredits 
the  supposed  value  of  Mr.  Paice^j  patronage. 

However.  Walter  Savage  Landor  presented 
one  of  his  books,  dated  1840.  to  a  Mr.  Peace, 
as  "from  the  author"  to  a  friend  of  Charles 
Lamb.  Joseph  Paice  died  in  1810,  and  well 
deserves  a  niche  in  the  *  Dictionary  of  National 
5J^SE^P*y  •'  ^*8  ^*^®ro  a  later  genuine  friend 
of  Elia  who  can  be  identified  ;  or  is  there  some 
confusion  in  similar  names  ?  A.  Hall. 

Highbury,  N. 

Safford  Family  in  Somersbtshirb  (S'"*  S. 

nL  88).— The  following  description  of  the 

book-plate  of  ''Joseph  Safford,  Surgeon,"  in  my 

collection,  may  aflTord  a  clue.    Style ;  wreath 

and  ribbon.    Arms :  Lozenfey  (?  Fusilly)  or 

and  vert,  a  lion  rampant  arg..  a  label  for 

aiflference  (eldest  surviving  son).    Crest :  A 

aemi-lion  rampant  arg.    Motto  :   "  Omnibus 

fijdelis."     The  approximate  date  would    be 

*  780.    I  shall  be  glad  to  know  if  the  owner 

^^as  identical  with  the  Bristol  surgeon  and 

*>Wner,  1807-11.         George  C.  Peachey. 

BrightwaltoD,  Wantage. 

^^  The  Rev.  James  Cutting  Saflford  was  B.A. 

2--^m8    Collie,  Cambridge,   1822,    and    was 

^txJamed  deacon  in  1823  by  the  Bishop  of 

^•-jincolnj  and  priest  the  following  year  by 

^iJne  Bishop  of  Norwich.    He  was  appointed 

^Qcar    of    Mettingham,    in    the   diocese    of 

^SJorwich,  in  1824,  and   perpetual  curate  of 

-^-Iketshall  St  Lawrence,  Suffolk,  in  1840. 

^      The  Rev.  William  Chartres    Saflford   was 

^5?Jte  scholar  of  C.C.C,  Cambridge,  B.A.  1862, 

^^lA.  1866.    He  was  ordained  deacon  in  1852, 

^^d  priest  in  1863,  by  the  Bishop  of  Chester. 

:ge  was  rector  of  Christ  Church   with  St. 

:^wen*s,    Bristol,    from    1855    to    1859,    and 

wrpetual  curate   of   Stoven,  Suflfolk,  from 

■^  to  1866,  when  he  was  appointed  rector 

^.Attleborough,  which  living  he  held  about 

^••^years.      Chas.  F.  Forshaw,  LL.D. 

Chibbl  Masks  (9^  S.  vii.  149).— Among  the 


i 


occurs  to  indicate  the  work  done  by  Tyneside 
antiquaries  in  the  elucidation  of  masons' 
marks.  Permit  me  to  add  the  publications 
of  the  Society  of  Antiquaries  or  Newcastle 
to  the  lists  already  given.  The  Archceologia 
jElianOy  vol.  xiv.,  contains  a  plate  of  over 
one  hundred  and  fifty  marks  found  on  the 
castles  of  Northumberland,  while  numerous 
descriptions  and  pictorial  illustrations  of 
these  curious  sj'mbols  occur  in  the  society's 
Proceedings.  For  example,  in  vol.  i.  p.  120 
is  a  plate  of  thirty-six  marks  found  on  the 
walls  of  the  Castle  of  Newcastle;  vol.  ii. 
p.  247  shows  marks  at  Rose  Castle,  the 
palace  of  the  Bishop  of  Carlisle;  vol.  iii. 
pp.  122  and  144  reproduce  marks  at  Aln- 
wick, Morpeth,  Cororidge,  and  Northaller- 
ton churches,  Newminster  Abbey,  Dinsdale 
Manor  House,  Kirkoswald,  and  Pontefi'act 
Castle ;  vol.  iv.  p.  34,  marks  at  Chillingham 
Castle ;  vol.  vii.  p.  97.  marks  on  the  walls  of 
Newcastle.  The  fifth  volume  of  the  new 
'  History  of  Northumberland '  has  an  appen- 
dix of  eight  quarto  pages  depicting  masons' 
marks  found  at  Warkworth  Castle. 

Richard  Welford. 

The  late  Mr.  Qeorge  Godwin,  F.S.A.,  editor 
of  the  Builder,  collected  a  number  of  these 
marks  and  published  a  volume  on  the  sub- 
ject. For  a  list  of  authors  consult  the 
'Dictionary  of  Architecture,'  published  by 
the  Architectural  Publication  Society,  and 
the  Interm^diaire  or  French  *  N.  &  Q.' 

John  Hebb. 

Footprints  of  Gods,  Ac.  (9"»  S.  vi.  163, 
223,  322,  391).— San  Luis  Beltrdn  (Luis  de 
Granada),  one  of  the  early  Spanish  mission- 
aries to  wnat  is  now  the  Republic  of  Colombia, 
is  said  to  have  left  his  footmarks  on  a  great 
stone  in  the  river  Magdelena.  This  stone, 
however,  cannot  be  recognized  now,  the 
excuse  being  that  the  water  has  turned  the 
stone  upside  down,  and  that  the  footmarks 
are  (no  doubt)  on  the  side  next  the  ground. 

iBAOU^. 

[In  Dr.  Murray's  play  of  *  Andromache  *  Thetis  is 
supposed  to  have  left  her  footprint  near  her  shrine.] 

"  So  LONG  "  (9'»»  S.  vii.  129).— There  seems 
to  be  a  consensus  of  opinion  at  the  references 
given  that  this  is  peculiarly  a  sailor's  phrase; 
and  as  one  correspondent  points  out^  it  can 
hardly  be  a  salutation,  as  it  is  used  only  at 
parting.  Mr.  Frank  Bullen,  at  the  conclusion 
of  his  *  Cruise  of  the  Cachalot,'  says,  "And 
now,  as  the  sailor  says  at  parting,  *  So  long ' "; 
and  it  would  appear  to  be  a.  ia.x^H«^VV  ^^^xs.- 
liarly  appropriate  to  \»\\e  \\e\s&\\MA^&  ^V  ^ 


ya«.w4  jttAjuuj  v»- o.  vu.  i4y;.— iimouK  wie  I  iiariy  appropnaXie  w  \»ue  \\c\?&\\i\xs\^»  vjv  ^ 
^«»onal  rafereoao9  under  this  head  uotliing  I  sailor's  lite,  used  a»  it  \b  VoaVfiajfti  oi''  %qkA- 


234 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.   [»*  s.  vn.  march  23.1901. 


bye,"  to  aignify  the  meeting  again  aoon»  like 
ftu  remir.  It  ia  common  not  only  on  the 
coasts  of  Bouth  America  {among  the  English! 
Uut  also  in  South  Africa  among  the  English 
and  Dutch,  anrl  in  London.  It  is  hardly 
likely  that  it  h  traceable  t4>  Jewish  originj 
forming  a  corruption  of  the  Hebrew  word 
*VSelah"(aod  bless  you). 

J,  R  MacMilhael. 

I  first  became  familiar  with  this  valediction 
at  Malta  in  the  seventies.  It  was  then  in 
common  uim  among  the  Maltese  of  Valetta, 
but  was  by  them  pronounced  **sah-lahng. 
I  at  that  time  took  it  to  bo  a  local  form  of 
the  Arabic  "  salaam  "^  and  my  surprise  was 
gre^t  when,  on  returning  to  England  in  the 
eighties,  I  founri  the  phrase  prevalent  in 
London.  John  Hob4^on  SiATTUBws. 

Town  Hall,  Cardiff. 

If  this  expression  for  good-bye  is  not  short 
for  "  So  long  as  we  are  separated,  farewell  !  '* 
can  it  be  that  it  is  a  corruption  of  Irij^ih  i/aan 
=  health  1  Gaelic  speakers  in  Eire-land  com- 
monly salute    by  raying   £^rtfltn~i«ai^  health 


with  thee,  for  farewell 


E.    S,    DODGHON. 


SUEariNG  Bkast  (B^^  S.  vii,  149).— Student 
know  the  mention  of  the  "questing 
beast"  in  '  Morte  d'Arthur/  i.  17,  iv.  12,  x,  13, 
and  X.  63,  Globe  Edition.  At  the  third 
reference  occur  the  words  "the  glatisant 
beast — that  is  in  English  to  say  the  questing 
beast."  At  the  last  refei'ence  one  finds  "the 
beast  Glatiaant^  which  was  a  wonderful  beast, 
and  a  great  signification,  for  Merlin  prophesied 
much  of  that  beast."  "  Glatisant "  is  the  equi- 
valent of  the  F,  glapmini^  meaning  yelping  or 
yapping.  From  xii.  14  one  may  infer  inat 
the  "questing  beast"  is  typical  of  an  unfor- 
giving or  unfriendly  spirit ;  or,  succinctly,  of 
contention.  It  was  only  after  the  Saracen 
Fiblamides  became  reconciled  to  Tristram 
that  he  was  christened  ;  and  he  had  vowed 
(x.  63)  not  to  be  ehristened  until  he  had 
** achieved  [cf.  ad  cainU  venire.  *H.E.D./  n.tf. 
VAchieve  ^]  the  l>east  Glatisant. 

Ajithue  May  all. 

The  "questing  beast"  is  described  in 
*Morte  cfArthur/  ix.  12.  It  was  called 
Glatisant,  and  had  a  head  like  a  serpen t\  a 
body  like  a  leopard's,  a  lion's  haunches,  and 
the  feet  of  a  hare,  and  in  its  body  there  was 
a  noise  like  that  of  thirty  couple  of  hounds 
questing.  This  beast  was  the  quest  of  Sir 
Palamides  the  Saracen,  C.  C.  B. 


"Lk  thEckntb  VAUWHt:"  W^'  K  vii.  127).  - 
The  ^ehoolboy  of   J(j51   htwt   probably  V^n\ 


section  iv.  letter  ii*    James  Howell,   in  an 

epistle  dated   20  Jan.,  1624,  and   wldressed 
*^To  R.  Brown,  Esq.Jrom  London,"  observe* : 

"There  canuol  bt  a  more  pregnant  proof  hereof 
than  tho&e  Seeds  of  Love^  which  I  have  long  aincp 
cftflt  iQto  vour  Breast,  wbaoh  have  thriven  m  well, 
and  in  that  exuberajice,  that  they  have  been  more 
fruitful  to  Tsie  tliao  that  Field  in  SicHi/  call  d  Le 
tr€cmte  rudrkht^  The  Fkfd  of  S^  LomU,  ao  called 
becauae  it  returuB  the  Sower  300  for  one  yearly; 
BO  plentiful  hath  your  Ijove  been  to  me." 

This  firat  part  of  Howell's  *  Letters "  appeared 
in  1645,  and  was  at  once  popular. 

William  E.  A.  Axon. 
Mancb^ter. 

Does  this  proverbial  expreaaion  not 
merely  allude  to  the  im menae  fertility 
of  Sicily,  8o  reputed  among  the  ancients  aa 
to  cause  the  island  to  be  called  tlie 
granary  which  could  supply  the  Romans 
with  ita  superabundant  corn  and  other  pro- 
ducts of  a  fi-uitful  aoill  As  to  the  specified 
*'  trecente  cariche,"  their  final  source  may  be, 
naturally^  traced  in  the  Gospel  parable  of  the 
aower  well  kno\^*u  to  the  mind  of  a  schoolboy, 
who  moreover^  in  this  case,  muat  also  have 
been  familiar  with  their  meaningLn  ItaJisn. 

Oxford. 

Byfield  Family  (9^*  S,  vii.  1S9).— Has  your 
correspondent  referred  to  *  N.  ^  Q.,'  !•*  S.  iii. 
303,  where,  in  a  note  by  the  Editor,  particulars 
are  given  of  a  tract  in  the  Britisn  Museum 
written  by  the  Rev,  Adoniram  Byfield ;  also  to 
7*^'^  B.  ici/485,  where  he  wiU  find  particulars 
of  the  will  of  the  Kev.  Richard  Byfield  and 
that  of  hii4  son,  who  bor©  the  same  Christian 
name  ]  These  references  may  not  furnish  an 
an  Si  we  r  to  his  question,  but  may  be  of  interest 
to  him.  EvEEARD  Home  Colemah, 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

In  the  Stratford -on- A  von  register  of  bap— 
tisms,  printed  by  the  Parish  Register  Society ^^ 
1  find  tlie  followm^  entry  :  ''  16  March  1601/^^ 
Nathanael  filius  Richaroi  Bifield  vicar." 

E.  A.  F£T. 

**SAESOJf  SfONEa"  (flth  a  viL  149).— Here  ^5 
an  instructive  paragraph  about  them  fro^^L 
Mr  Edgar  Barclay's  'Stouehenge,'  pp.  5-6:^ 

**The  out<er   lintel  drc'le  und   outer  horee-ftlfc^^De 
were  tiompoaed  of  rock^  naitied  *  SarseD»»*  brou^Mii 
from  the  neigh boiirhood  of  Avebury,  al^Ut  twfcmfy 
itiile!^  north  of  i^tonehengOt   where  they  ooour      in 
iargt^  numbi^ni  oa  a  singulfir  natur&l  phtiiium«tK»ii, 
boiilderB  iying  dteiily  embedded  in  the  soil  of  vile 
tihftlk  (lowEi^.    To  the  north-east  of  the  vilU|^  of 
Avpiiury  thfr  laud   is  thickly  strown  with   these 
I  iKJultlers,  found  on  the  ^uintiiit  and  in  the  hollo iw 
\  \A  VW  Afiv*\v ',  tUtiii:  ttin^earam^e,  sttsiti^ting  flw^li^  ^'f 

w  uaiM 


'Grey 


9»8.vilmarch23,i9oi.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


235 


VVeliiers*;  some  valleys  are  so  choked  with  Iheni 
■A  to  be  of  a  pener^t  jfroy  tint,  jL4eologifit«  nape  these 


'  8iliciQ»«  Grit,*  or  *  Tertiary  Saod-Htonefl** 
Th«f  hsvv  coGcifncitily  been  nam^d  Driiid-fltoite^, 
Tfa«  moit  s&tiflfzbctory  d«Hvatton  of  the  nunic 
Bftrseiu  or  8>aseiiB  is  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  word 
for  ii  rock  or  itone^  a^a^  pL  ^jj^h  or  f^^^^^aj^.  *  The 
people  where  the  dtone*  are  found/  »aya  Frof.  T»  R. 
Jone»t  'call  them  Sa^enHorHa^satifi,  ^m  that  perhftjis 
the  word  Sarflena  id  no  other  than  the  Aligh>-Kiixon 
word  for  rock  projierly  prooouiicod.*  Other  deriva- 
tions have  been  proposed,  Saroeen  softened  to 
8&rsenp  and  the  Latin  ^axQ,^  stone  [mey 

It  is  the  btue-HtoneH  at  Stonebeiige^  and  not 
the  S&Fiieus,  which  are  unraatchable  in  the 
geolog^r  of  Great  Britain.        St,  Swithik, 

The  full  geological  history  of  these  atones 
is  given    by   Prof.  Thoa.    Rupert   Jonea  in 
WSu  Mofi.^  1886,  and  GcqL  Mug,,  February 
and  March  of  the  present  ye^r.    The  latter 
papers  are  supplementary  to  the  one  of  1886, 
A.^  Prof,  Jonea  is  ike  authority  on  the  subject,  i 
ex&mplea  and  localities  given  are  reliable. 
C.  Davies  Sheebokn, 
5iO,KJDB*iHoaa,8,W, 

Beasekosk  Coulege,  Oxford  O"'  S.  vi.  509; 

vii  9^   157).— To  the  quotations  from   Dr. 

Ingram's  VMemorials  of  Oxford'  given  at  the 

last  reference  with  regard  to  William  Smyth, 

Bishop  of  Lincoln,  may  be  added  the  follow- 

ing  from  the  *  D.N.B/:— 
**  Bmyth'e  biographer,  Chtirlon,  after  completely 

digproving  Wood^s  assert) r»ii  that  8in3f'th  wa^  a 
!  lalgranl  troni  Oxford  \*2  Cambridge*  inclines  to 
j  identify  him  with  William  Hmyth^  a  commoner  of 
[       Uncoln  College  in  1478.     He  would  then  probably 

be  about  eighteen  yeara  old/' 

And  further  on  we  read  ; — 

*' Three  of  his  ne|ihewa  he  marie  archdeacMins  in 
^il  diooeie,  aT*poi:ntiT];[f  one  of  them,  WitHam 
Hnnrtb,  Archdeacon  of  Liucntn,  to  the  moat  valuable 
prehend,  it  ia  vatd,  in  England.  Another  of  them, 
Gilbert  fimytht  he  made  a  prebendary  in  tlSB, 
'Jwly  six  veare  beforo  he  took  sub-deacon's  orders, 
gait  hew  Smyths  the  last  Princijml  of  Braa^noBe 
Bill  and  the  iirfit  of  Braaeooge  Colle|;e,  in  all  pro- 
^kohiEtj  a  relation  of  the  hiBhop*  was  presented  by 
^im  to  a  prebend  in  Uocoln  Cathedral  in  1503, 
^:liDiigh  he  wais  not  ordained  sub- deacon  till  lol2. 
j-^e  of  Bishop  Smyth'a  last  acU  was  to  grant  a 
*^aie»  probably  on  beneficial  ternia,  of  the  manor 
^f  Kettleham  in  Linoolnahire  to  Richard  Smyth, 
^(mhllQie  a  kinsman.  Churton  complains  that  in 
^iiiyth^H  lime  the  cathedral  of  Lincoln  waa  *  peo|iled 
J*"itts  j>er3ona  of  th^:  name  of  VV*illiam  Smytn,*and, 
*tt>m  what  we  know  of  the  biehop'fi  uare  for  bis  kioB- 
^«n,  it  ia  not  unfair  to  au&]:K;et  that  mo^t  of  them 
JPfre relatives  whom  he  indemnified  in  thia  way  for 
*tie  diversion  of  the  bulk  of  his  proi>erty  to  hia 

i      ^i%e," 

I  A.  11.  Bayley. 


SniHAJils  (^  S,  vii.^  98).-- 1  believe  the 
^Tjiui^  claim  that  their  name  is  the  oldest 


the  Hev,  G,  K,  Frynne,  tho  venerable  vitar 

of  St,  Peter*a,  Plymouth,  writes  me:— 

"  Prynne  m  the  only  family  name  which  occurs 
in  the*  Anglo-Sanon  Cbronicle,'  which  is  the  otde*it 
historical  record  wo  have  of  Kngliah  hi  story .  It 
was,  it  opjioars,  the  family  name  of  the  last  kini?  of 
Kent.  The  name  has  l>een  a  pelt  variouply.  Laud, 
in  his  defence^  in  the  same  written  speech,  flpelh  it 
in  three  way«,  ^  Pryn,  Prynn,  and  Prynno,*  in 
alluding  U.^  one  and  the  aanie  person,  ie.^  thefamoUH 
William  Prynne,  the  leading  counsel  against  him. 
I  do  not  think  it  ever  could  have  had  a  *de'  Ijefore 
it,  as  that  prefix  to  names  was  introduced  into  this 
country  with  the  Norman  Conquest,  and  could 
hardly  have  been  applicable  to  an  Anglo  Saxon 
name.  1  believe  a  iKiok  was  published  at  Bath  a 
few  years  a^o,  entitled  *  8waenswick,'  which  givea 
much  fuller  information  relative  to  the  very  ancient 
surname  of  Prynne/' 

HAfiEY  Hkms, 
Fair  Park>  Rjceter. 

Pall-mall  and  Golf  (9*''  S.  vi.  444  ;  vii.  5g), 
—An  article  on  the  'Game  of  Pall-mall/ 
accompanies]  by  four  illnstrationR  (two  of 
the  mallets,  and  two  of  the  postures  of  the 
player)  from  Lauthier,  by  Mr.  Henry  B, 
Wheat!e3\  will  be  found  in  the  Antiqvarif  for 
April,  1881.  KicHARTi  Lawson. 

urmston, 

A  Poem  attributed  to  Milton  {d^^  B.  vi. 
182,  238,  293  ;  vii  fiO).— Chaucer,  in  the  begin- 
ning of  the  second  book  of  *The  House  of 
Fame/  has  the  linen  :— 

that  in  Parnassus  dwel 
Beayde  Helicon  tht  clere  wel. 
The  *^in  Parnaasus  '*  of  Uhaucer  may  be  cora- 
pared  with  the  **  in  Helicon  ^'  of  Milton  i  and 
we  may  be  sure  that  the  later  poet  in  his 
epitaph  meant  Helicon  to  be  a  mountain .  In 
'  Paradiue  Lost '  he  mentions  the  Aonian 
mount ;  and  this  must  be  Helicon,  which  is 
in  Bceotia.  Chaucer  in  the  above  lines  shows 
great  ci:)nfudon.  He  thinks  Helicon  to  be  a 
Fountain  near  Parnassus,  But  Parnassus  is 
in  Phocis,  and  its  fountain  is  Castalia.  Heli- 
con i!*  in  Bo*otia,  and  with  it«  risers,  Per- 
me^sus  and  Olmeius,  and  itis  fountains, 
Hippocrene  and  Aganippe,  is  described  by 
Milton  as  "mediis  Helicon  in  undis,^^ 

E.  Yardley. 

Davenpoet-Hulme(9^''S-  vii.  129).— Baines's 
'Lancashire'  fumiahes  a  pedigree  of  the 
Hulme?^  of  Hulrae,  in  the  county  of  Lan- 
caster. Other  particulars  of  families  bearing 
the  name  of  Hulme  will  be  found  in  *N.  &  Q. ' 
,3*^*  S,  vi, ;  6^^  S.  xi. ;  7''^sS.  ii.,  iii, ;  and  8^*^  8.  xii, 
EvERARD  Home  Colemak* 
71,  Brecknock  Road, 

Ships  of  Wau  oh  "Lkhb  V^^^.  V\v,\M^.-- 


«t  rmani  as  m  surnamo.    My  vers"  old  friend  (  Perhaps  it  is  worth  ^\V\\e  to  TtveiuWou  'V^ra^ 


236 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9^  s.  vii.  march  23. 1901. 


conveyance  of  ship^  across  an  isthmus  ;  s«(* 
Barboitr'H  *  Bruco,'  x\\  272,  and  the  nutcj.  The 
note  says  that  the  sarae  fchinfi;  had  been  done 
in  1098 ;  and  1  refer  to  further  information 
to  be  found  in  Ty  tier's  '  Hhtory  of  Scotland/ 
L  368,  Walter  W,  Skeat. 

A  notable  instance  ia  that  of  the  Turks  at 
the  siege  of  Valetta,  when  they  drew  their 
galleys  across  country  from  one  of  the  nuir»cu 
m  the  south  uf  Malta  to  tbe  head  of  the 
Grand  Harboiar,  The  kniehts  ooramanded 
the  mouth,  but  not  the  head,  of  the  harbour 
with  their  guns.  H.  P.  L. 

Without  being  able  to  answer  K.*s question, 
I  can  refer  him  to  a  paftsage  in  Baring- 
Gould's  *  Study  of  St  Paul,^  which  will  pro^ 
bably  be  of  interest  to  him  : — 

'*  ^hipa  from  Italy  reac^hed  the  port  of  Lechiaum, 
and  on  rollers  were  dra^-n  by  oxen  along  &  straight 
and  ©veil  raad,  five  milea  long,  to  DioJctis,  where 
they  were  again  floaterl  to  continue  their  voyage  to 
the  East.  f)r,  if  the  veesela  were  too  large,  then 
their  lading  was  transferred  to  pack-horses,  turn- 
brilfl,  and  the  backs  of  porters,  to  be  carried  aaroaa 
the  isthmus  and  re-shipped  at  the  other  imrt,"— 
F.  242. 

St.  SwiTiiiN. 

The  Title  or  Es^juirk  (9^**  S.  vL  3ST,  452, 
471  ;  vii.  33,  &4).— At  the  last  reference  there 
ia  a  quotation  from  Mb.  Fox-Davies's  work 
on  '  Armorial  Famiiia^'  affirming  that  the  de- 
scription of  gentleman  throughout  that  book 
is  limited  to  its  ancient  and  legal  interpreta- 
tion, namely,  a  person  entitled  to  bear  arms. 
Does  the  application  of  that  term  to  persons 
in  parish  registers  and  other  public  docu- 
ments in  the  seventeenth  century  constitute 
proof  that  tbuse  who  were  there  so  described 
were  entitled  to  bear  arms]  Inquirer. 

'*  Bettek  to  have  loved  and  lost"  {&"'  S. 
™.  I26j.— 'I  pointed  out  long  ago  in  *  N.  Jb  Q.* 
the  r^.1  origin  of  Tennyaon^s  lines  : — 

'Tis  better  to  have  loved  and  lost 

Than  never  to  have  tov^id  at  all. 
In  Coflgreve's  *  Way  of  the  World  ^  3^f  ra.  Mar- 
wood  says,  **  Tis  better  to  be  left  than  never 
to  have  De«n  Wed,"  E.  Yaedlky, 

CouNTiNa  Anotiibr's  Buttons  (9^**  S.  v. 

496;    vi.   30,  273,  371,  456;  vii,   15).— Girk 

count  plum  and  cherry  stones  to  see  if  sonie 

man's  name  comes  exactly  to  the  number, 

either  full  Christian  and  surname,  or  initials 

and  surname.    If  there  be  a  stone  too  many 

or  too  few  for  this,  "  he  loves  me  not/*   Other 

girls  look  on  and  guess  from   the  number 

of  stones    who    it    is,      I    often    saw    this 
done  in  Yorkshire  about  thirty  years  ago, 

fPl  a  B/b  cassock  Is  not  the  latest  fa^Vvon\iu  Qn¥5«Mk!i  ^twvu^iu'i,  of  Ifillyi^*^  'Fife 
Appamntly,  for  T  f^w  one  bv  an  np-to-d&teXSViWm^  Rx^»R.T\V«wa^i  ^^^  i^Xk  tsc^cimSauic, 


London  tailor  the  other  day  with  no  buttons 
at  all,  and,  on  imeverently  inquiring  "how 
the  anple  got  in/'  was  informed  ^^no  one 
wore  buttons  now,"  and  that  said  cassock 
was  *'  absolutely  Sarum;"  Ibaou^. 

Old  London  Taverns  (0"»  S.  vii.  69, 154).— 
Although  the  **  Five  Bells  Tavern  "  was  behind 
the  church  of  St.  Mary-le-Strand,  the  sign 
commemorated  the  inauguration  of  the  ring 
of  bells  belonging  to  the  older  church  of 
St.  Clement*a.  The  former  church  still  has 
one  bell  only,  which  gave  its  sign  to  the 
**One  Bell  Inn,"  described  in  the  London 
Btfefiinq  Post  of  1  May,  1718,  as  situate 
"  behind  the  New  Church  in  the  Strand,  near 
the  Maypole"— a  noted  coaching  inn,  where 
in  1741  the  Richmond  stage  coach  put  up. 
It  is,  I  ana  afraid,  improbable  that  Mr. 
Robertson  will  be  able  to  obtain  print  or 
drawing  of  either  this  *'Five  Bells"  or  of 
the  ''  Grittin  "  in  Holborn.  Neither  of  these 
having  been  coaching  inns,  they  had  little 
chance  of  being  perpetuated  in  print,  and  as 
ordinary  tavern  resorts  they  do  not  appear 
to  have  possessed  enough  fame  or  interest 
to  have  come  under  the  notice  of  either 
Hogarth  or  Bunbory.  Diprose  in  his  'St 
Clement  Danes,*  quoting  (p.  2^8)  R.  Seymour's 
*  Tendon  and  Westminster '  1734»  says,  "  Holy- 
well Street,  commonly  called  tbe  backside  of 
St.  Clement^  a  place  inhabited  by  divers 
salesmen  and  piecebrokers.  This  street  runs 
up  to  the  Maypole  i?i  the  Strand,  where  is 
the  *  Five  P*ell  Tavern,*  which  is  a  thorough- 
fare into  Wyich  Street"  There  was,  accord- 
ing to  Larwood  and  Hotten'a  'History  of 
Signboards,'  a  '*Ship  and  Fox"  next  d«x)r 
but  one  tcj  the  "  Five  Bell  Tavern,"  near  the 
Maypole,  but  this  is  the  only  mention  there 
made  of  this  house.  There  was  a  **  Bell 
Yard  "  on  the  east  side  of  Drury  Lane,  by  the^a 
new  cburckso  late  as  IB13  (see' John  Lockie'^ 


Topog,  of  London  *  of  that  year). 
The" Griffin ^^  in  Holborn  was  in  FuUer'ss- 

(Ful  wood's)    HentSj  a   narrow   paved    coui 

opposite  the  end  of  Chancery  Lane,  which  i  . . 
1720  Strype  describes  as 

*^  a  filace  of  good  resort,  and  taken  up  by  ooffcLi-  . 
houses,  ale-houeEis,  and  bouses  of  entertainment,  ^^c: 

reaioD  of  its  vicinity  to  Gray's  Inn At  the  upfma^ 

end  of  the  court  is  a  im&sagc  into  the  Castle  Tavecr-s 
a  houae  of  Gonaiderablo  trader  as  is  the  GolcL^e/ 
GrifBn  Tavern,  on  the  W6st  iii<li\  which  also  hath^  s 
passago  into  Fnl wood's  Rents." 

At  the  "Griffin  Tavern,**  in   Holborn,  seal- 
scriptions    were    taken    for    '*a    lAetxMwMto 
Print  of  the  Princess  Elizabeth,  afterwarcb 
Queen  of  Kngland,  done  by  Mr.  Faber,  froao 


i 


9«*  8.  VIL  March  23, 1901.]      NOTES  AND    QUERIES. 


287 


and  th©  other  half  on  Deliveiy."  The  print 
was  a  whole  length,  twenty  iuclies  by  four- 
teen (Dfiih/  Adtmiii€7\  4  FebrUiiry,  \  742), 

There  was  a  *'Teraple  Exchange  Coffee- 
bouitey^^  where  the  "  Monthly  Meetini;  of  the 
Society  for  promoting  English  Protestant 
Working  Schools  "  was  held  {Dfiilu  AdvtriiMi\ 
26  Febr aary,  1 74S).  Here,  says  Whea tley ,  the 
Fire  of  London  stopped  ;  and  four  of  Uold- 
smith's  lettem  (in  1757-1758)  are  dated  from 
this  house,  which  ceased  to  be  a  coffee- houtje 
about  the  year  1810.  Whether  or  not  this 
was  immediately  within  the  precincts  of  the 
Temple  one  cannot  say,  but  it  waa  certainly 
"near  Temple  Bar,^  The  ** Temple  Coffee- 
house*'was  in  Devereux  Courts  Strand,  and 
was  in  1803  frequent^  by  **  gentletnen  of  the 
law"  ('The  Picture  of  London  in  1803,' 
p.  354).  J.  H-  MacMiohaieu 

WimbledoQ  Park  RoiM]. 

Datb  Waited  O^"^  S,  vii  27,  96,  153). -The 
first  two  replies  which  have  appeared  agree 
that  the  **  morrow  after  Corpus  Chriati  Day/' 
in  the  year  1543  a.b.,  fell  upon  25  May.  This 
date  is  no  doubt  a  correct  one,  but  only  so 
according  to  the  Julian  style  of  reckoning, 

Qnomok^s  reply  recognizes  the  inade<}uaoy 
of  those  first  two,  but  it  seems  that  m  at 
tempting  to  find  the  equivalent  date  accord- 
ing to  the  Qregorian  sjtyle,  he  has  assumed  too 
great  a  dtficrence  at  that  time  between  the 
two  styles  (supposing,  of  course,  the  Gre- 
gorian style  to  have  been  then  exiatent)^  and 
he  has  also  gone  in  hi»  calculation  in  the 
wrong  directioD,  deflucting  the  numlier  of 
days  of  difference  instead  of  adding  it.  Is  it 
not  simply  thus  1 

Juftt  as  at  the  present  time  (when  the 
difference  between  the  two  styles  is  thirteen 
days)  the  equivalent  of  25  December,  old 
style,  is  7  January,  new  stvle  (being  called  in 
nhitaker^s  Almanack  '  Old  Chrifiima^  I^ay), 
80  likewise  in  1543  (when  the  diffei'ence  be- 
tween the  two  styles  was  but  tan  days)  the 
equivalent  in  that  year  (and  its  anniversary 
every  year  afterwards)  of  25  May,  old  style, 
would  bo  4  June,  new  style. 

Thos.   C.   NfYDDELTON* 

St.  AlbuiBL 


Has  ONOitON  at  the  last  reference  really 
understood  aright  Mr.  Southwell's  phrase 
**in  the  present  niyle  o/f^k<miti{f"'l  Burely 
this  does  not  mean  "  in  the  present  fftar. " 
The  "  preisent  style  of  reckoning"  is  the  Ore- 
goriau^  which  was  not  established  until 
15  ()ctober,  1582  (in  the  old  style  5  October, 
jdifferenca  of  ten  days).  But  had  the  ro- 
wrm  Qome  to  pass  forty  fears  sooner^  the 
B»m>w  M^er  Cotpus  Christi  D^y  In   1*543^ 


S5  May,  would  have  fallen  ten  days  earlier 

than  by  the  then  reckoning,  the  ociuation 
being  ^5-10—15,  ^t%,  l."*  May.  Is  not  this 
what  Mr.  Southwell  wanted  to  know? 

F.  Adams. 

Author  of  Recitation  Wanted  (9^**  S.  vii. 
150).-^ Is  not  H.  V.  S.  thinking  of  the  little 
poem  *The  Way  of  the  World,'  beginning  :— 

L&ugh,  and  the  world  l&ugliB  with  70U; 
Weep,  and  you  weep  alone  ? 

It  will  be  found  in  *  Everybody's  Book  of 
Short  Poems '  (Saxon  k  C?o,),  p.  S9,  where  it 
is  stated  that  the  authot^hip  is  claimefl  both 
by  Mrs.  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox  and  Col.  J.  A. 
Joyce^  a  curious  literary  coincidence. 

Charles  R  Behham. 

Oolcheater« 

"In  the  swim"  (9*»"  S.  vil  29,  137),''There 
is  a  fable  that  tells  how  a  sharp  shower 
washed  apples  and  stroet  refuse  together  into 
the  guttter.  and  rolled  thera  along  to  the 
river.  As  they  went  bobbing  up  and  down 
on  the  current,  a  delighted  cry  ascended, 
"  How  well  we  apples  swim  ! "  It  did  not 
come  from  an  apple,  of  course.  \¥hen  people 
are  spoken  of  as  being  **  in  the  swim,'*  it  is 
frequently  implied  that  they  are  among 
suiToundings  tnat,  according  to  old-fashioned 
notions,  are  not  theirs  by  right ;  they  are 
in  the  position,  in  fact,  of  that  which  tried 
to  pass  itself  off  as  an  apple.  Perhaps  the 
fable  may  have  had  something  to  do  with 
the  birth  of  the  phrase.  H.  8.  W. 

Ur,  Johnson  (9^^  S.  vii.  88,  176).— As  a 
pendant  to  BoswelVs  remark  about  "John- 
ston" as  the  Scottish  pronunciation  of  his 
hem's  name,  it  may  be  stated  that  it  is  not 
impossible  to  hear  it  expressed  in  that  form 
in  Scotland  at  the  prasent  time.  I  have 
m^'self  hea^rd  it  so  pronounced  from  the 
pulpit  more  than  once.  Our  form  of  the 
surname  is  ^*  Johnston  "  or  "  Johnstone,"  and 
the  lapse  in  speaking  of  the  lexicographer 
is,  after  all,  not  very  remarkable.  Besides, 
Johnston  in  both  forms  is  a  name  of  dis- 
tinction in  the  annals  of  Scottish  literature, 
art,  and  statesmanship.       Thomas  Bayne. 


**Barted"(9^^  S.  vii.  165).— It  should  lie 
needless  to  point  out  that  such  abbreviations 
as  bert ,  knt.,  esq.,  gent.,  are  not  nouns,  but 
merely  s^igns  of  nouns,  and  their  use  collo- 
quial J  y  is  decidedly  vulgar,  while  the  attempt 
to  turn  them  into  verbs  can  only  be  charac* 
berized  as  the  height  of  silliness^  atid  (iMv 
Editor's  protest  k  one.  w\\\cl\\  ^^etx  \qn^^  ^\ 
English  undeftl^^  muat  \ie&^^\\i3  eiT\AOT^- 


238 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  C9«'S.vil  march  23. 1901. 


NOTK   on    A     pAW«Ar,E    IN  CllAlH;KI{*l4    *  PilO- 

LOtJUK '  iU^  B.  vi,  mb,  4^4,  4m  ;  vii,  m,  95, 
175).— I  should  not  have  replied  further  upon 
this  pointy  if  it  were  not  that  the  whole 
point    of  ray   argument   has  been  entirely 
mis^^ed.    What  I  said  was  that  **  in  such  a 
collocation  of  letters  as  *jBge^  egt,  ige,''  the  g 
had  no  guttural  sound,  but  wa^  a  mere  glide. 
In  the  reply   we  are  referred  to  the  verbs 
dfcm  and    amw,  and    to    the   M.K  digkd^ 
which  have  nothing  at  all  to  do  with  the 
question.    In  the  case  of  draff  and  draw  the 
A. -S.  form  WHS  dragan^  containing  r^a  ;  and 
in  the  case  of  M,E.  dighel^  which  never  came 
down  into  the  fourteenth  century  at  all,  the 
A,'S.  form  was  diegd^  containing  itge,  with  a 
long  le,  which  makes  a  good  deal  of  di  fibre  nee. 
It  is  notoiious  that  the  A,-B.  ag-  came  out 
quite  differently  from  A^-S,  teg- ;  the  former 
became  aw-^  and  the  latter  ay-.     See  Sweety 
*Hist.  E.  Sounds,'  pp.  293-4.    Chaucer^s  lan- 
guage belongs  to  tne  fourteenth    century » 
and  his  pronunciation  belongs  to  the  same 
period.    There  is  not  a  single  instance  of  his 
adoption  of  an  A,-S.  forra^  nor  any  evidence 
that   he  ever  saw  an  A.-S.  text  or  that  he 
could  liave  understood  a  sentence  of  it.    If 
there  is,  let  us  have  it :  only  it  must  be  con- 
vincing. Waltee  W,  Skeat. 

**  Jeber's  cooks  "  (9^"^  S.  vii.  148).— For  infor- 
mation about  Geber,  Qebir,  or  Jeber  see 
'  Encyclopaedia  Britannica,*  9th  ed.,  i.  463-4, 
art  *  Alchemy  in  Arabia,'  and  x.  125-6, 
art,  *Geber* ;  or  '  Chambers's  Encyclopedia,' 
arbs,  'Alchemy*  and  _  *(jebirJ  The  Arab 
bearer  of  this  name  is  the  author  of  the 
okleat  treatise  on  chemistry  that  the  world 
possesses^  and  a  manuscript  in  Arabic  by 
Iiim  is  among  the  treasures  of  the  Biblio- 
theque  Nationale,  Paris. 

Gerard  Legh  is  said  in  the  *  D.N.B,'  to 
have  been  proficient  in  various  branches  of 
science,  which,  according  to  your  corre- 
spondent's quotation,  included  alchemy  ;  for 
Legh  there  humorously  likens  his  work  in 
the  laboratory,  melting  metal,  (fee,  for  trans- 
mutation, to  that  of  a  cook,  F.  Ajdams. 

"  One  of  Jeber*s  cooks  '*  is  a  jocular  name 
for  an  alchemist.  The  reference  is  to  tlie 
Arabian  alchemist  Geber,  who  flourished  in 
the  eighth  century.  The  writer  means  that 
he  had  been  an  alchemist  himself. 

Waltee  W.  Skeax 

HiGR     AND    Low  :     Uonsehvative    and 

LiBEMAL    (B^^    S.    vii.    128).— During    recent 

^e&r&  I  hMve  on  gereral  occasions  h^td  the 


^^"^"^^^  ^'/rfj  Partj"used  in  ref6i^nc&  loxBdUm  ^m  Iq^^  ^^V  \lc^,  1861 -79X 
t^e   Tories  by  a  hdy  of  my   acquaintance, \mGW^«&    ^^   ^aasoL-i    ^j^^^^Xk^  ^sA 


long  resident  in  London,  but  who  was  bom 
and  bred  (1830-52^  in  Northamptonshire,  the 
county  from  whicn  your  querist  writes.  She 
appeal's  to  have  learntit  in  her  girlhood  from 
her  father,  who,  she  said,  "  always  supported 
the  High  Party  "  at  Parliamentary  elections, 
in  wliicb,  as  was  usual  in  those  days,  he  took 
a  keen  interest  I  do  not  remember  to  have 
elsewhere  heard  the  term  so  applied,  although 
I  should  think  it  was  formerly  generally 
used  in  such  respect  in  at  least  the  county 
referred  to.  W.  I.  R.  V. 

In  and  since  the  early  fifties  I  have  been 
accnatomed  to  hear  "  High  Party  "  and  **  Low 
Party  "  from  the  lips  of  an  old  lady  who  was 
born  in  1810^  and  lived  most  of  her  life  in  a 
Midland  town  where  the  rivalry  between 
Tory  and  Whig  raged  furiously  in  the  earlier 
years  of  la-^t  century.  And  I  have  distinct 
recollection?*  of  hearing  the  same  terras 
applieil  to  candidates  at  elections  when  I 
was  at  school,  up  U)  1860.  I  can  have  no 
doubt  that  "High"  and  '*  Low "  were  in 
common  use  in  the  above  connexion,  though, 
except  from  the  old  liidy  mentioned,  I  have 
not  heard  them  for  many  years.     W.  B.  H. 

"RoK£r"  (9**'  a  vii.  28,  135).— This  won! 
used  to  be  on^  of  the  "  notions "  or  peculiar 
expressions  constituting  the  school  dialect  or 
slang  of  Winchester  College.  It  meant  a 
ruler  for  drawing  lines  or  measuring.  Its 
verb,  to  roke^  was  used,  if  ray  memory  fail  not, 
in  the  sense  of  to  /Jtti-«— the  fire,  for  instance 
^with  more  rime  than  reason. 

K.  S.   DODGSON. 

*'CAEHDo"  =  CKRCA>rDo  (9"^  S.  vii.  147).— In 
Prof.  Sk cat's  *  General  List  of  Errata,*  printed 
in  the  *  Oxford  Chaucer,'  vol.  vi.  p.  406,  occurs 
**for  raen^ifi   read   ceiy^nnda^'^    Caendo^   how- 
ever, is  not  a  mistake.    It  was  used  in  early  ^ 
Italian    as    the    equivalent    in    meaning  of  I 
eercando^  as  may  be  seen  from  the  follow — 
ing  entry  in  Florio*s  '  Italian   Dictionary '  r 
**GVie?«fo,   used  for  reraindo,  there  being  nc» 
more  nse<l  but  the  ground  of  this  word,  aoc^ 
ever  with  the  verb  anddre.''    Of  course  ther^" 
is  no  reason  to  suppose  that  caendo  is  thjfli 
phonetic  equivalent  of  mrcajuio. 

A.  L.  Mayhew. 

OsforcL 

As  Signor  F.  Coscia,  the  Italian  Universi^ni 
teacher  of  Oxford,  kindly  informs  me,  ca«i-«c 
is  simply  borroweo  from  the  Spanish  ctienda^ 
Latin  aid^ndo^  and  only  occurs  in  Italian  f 
a  S  nan  is  it  loan  -  word.  I  find,  however,  ii 
tbe  large  Italian  dictionary  of  Tommaseo  e 
-  -^  -    ..     .  .  whicA 


0«^S.  VII.  March  2),  1901.]     NOTES   AND    QUERIES. 


239 


words,  "  CaendOj  e  cajendo=cercando  ;  non  ha  ' 
questo  verbo  se  non  questa  voce  del  gerundio, 
e  per  lo  piu  s' accompagna  col  verbo  andare^' 
(t.e.y  this  verb  is  only  used  in  this  gerundive 
mood,  and  mostly  together  with  the  verb 
andarcy  to  go).  H.  EIbebs. 

Oxford. 

Col.  Thomas  Cooper  (9^  S.  vii.  168).— 
If  your  correspondent  will  turn  to  *  N.  <k  Q.,' 
3"*  S.  xi.  417,  491.  he  will  find  some  informa- 
tion which  may  oe  of  service.  I  will  supply 
him  with  a  MS.  copy  should  he  have  any 
difficulty  in  referring  to  the  articles  in 
question.  Everard  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Koad. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  &c. 

Diriwnary  of  Quotations  {French  and  Italiaai).  Bv 
Thomas  Bentiold  Harbottle  and  Col.  Philip  Hugo 
Dalbiac.  (Sonnenschein  k  Co. ) 
Concerning  the  need  that  existed  for  a  book  such 
as  is  here  supplied  there  can  be  no  question.  In- 
quiries after  such  have  been  made  in  our  columns, 
and  we  have  ourselves  lived  in  constant  need  of  a 
work  of  the  class.  Of  the  competency  of  the  two 
compilers  for  the  task  undertaken  there  is  also  no 
doubt.  Col.  Dalbiac  was  responsible  for  the  first 
volume  of  the  series,  and  Mr.  Harbottle  for  the 
second.  For  the  former,  which  constitutes  the 
most  important  and  serviceable  dictionary  of  Eng- 
lish quotations,  see  *  N.  &  Q.,'  8^^  S.  ix.  359;  for  the 
latter,  which  is  the  best  existing  guide  tc  ^■i--:'n\ 
quotations,  see  8^**  S.  xii.  518.  ft  was  uii.  .  >'j: 
hoped  to  include  in  a  third  and  final  voluntr  £m.l^< 
pean  quotations  generally.  This  was  ntiiur:illy 
found  impossible.  Yet  one  more  volume,  otcupleii 
with  German  and  Spanish  quotations,  is  *^u]1  tn  bt^ 
expected.  This  is  a  matter  on  which  the  reader  k 
to  DC  congratulated  ;  and  if  the  forthcoming  volume 
is,  as  it  is  bound  to  be,  equal  to  its  predeces- 
sors, it  is  sure  of  a  cordial  welcome.  The  wit 
and  wisdom  of  Sancho  Panza  will  in  itself  fill  up  no 
inconsiderable  space,  while,  to  take  a  solitary  book 
in  a  language  such  as  the  German,  full  of  pregnant 
utterances,  Goethe's  Conversations  with  EcKermann 
is  in  itself  a  mine. 

Turning  to  the  present  volume,  we  find  it  is 
admirablv  rich  in  both  Italian  and  French  quota- 
tions. Aosolute  completeness  is  never  to  be  hoped. 
There  are  pages  of  Montaigne  in  which  each  con- 
secutive sentence  is  a  gem  of  thought  or  langua^ 
Molidre  is  practically  inexhaustible,  as  are  Raoelais, 
Voltaire,  I^lzac,  to  say  nothing  of  La  Rochefou- 
cauld, La  Bruy^re,  Chamfort,  and  a  score  others.  A 
volume  of  *  Pens^'  from  Balzac  has  already  been 
ffiven  to  the  world.  In  a  second  edition  we  shall 
hope  to  see  u  quotation  or  two  from  Kivarol,  such 
as  "  Cet  heureux  pouvoir  des  mots  qui  sillonne  si 

1>rofondement  Tattention  des  hontmes  en  ^branUnt 
ear  imagination  " ;  and  we  commend  the  insertion 
of  Amolphe's  observation  to  Agnes  (*  E^le  des 
Femme8,^IIL  ii.)— 

l>a  cot<^  de  la  barbe  est  la  toute-puiB8ancc  ; 
the  **La  joie  de  Tesprit  en  marque  la  force"  of 


Ninon  de  I'Enclos  (we  quote  from  Barbey  d'Aure- 
villyandSainte-Beuve);  and  Voltaire's  observations 
ou  what  are  called  sacred  verses, 

Sacr^  ils  sont ;  car  personne  n'y  touche. 

We  might  continue  long.  Our  desire  is  not,  how- 
ever, to  trace  inevitable  omissions,  but  to  recom- 
mend to  our  readers  a  work  of  solid  value  and 
merit.  We  have  tested  the  book  again  and 
ligain,  and  are  grateful  and  surprised  at  its 
fulness.     The  translations   and   explanations   are 

SBnerally  useful  and  adequate.  Now  and  then, 
ut  rarely,  the  reader  would  probably  be  thank- 
ful for  xurther  information.  Li  the  case  of 
""  La  venue  des  coquecigrues  "  of  Rabelais  a  simple 
translation  is  scarcely  enough.  The  average 
reader  should  be  told  that^  the  co^ueciffrue  being  an 
imaginary  animal,  the  penod  indicated  is  **  never." 
[n  the  Italian  section  materials  are  less  overwhelm- 
ing. We  fail  to  find  who  first  said  "  Traduttore, 
traditore ! "  and  cannot  straight  off  supply  the 
omission.  There  are,  of  course,  numerous  quota- 
tions from  Dante,  among  which  we  do  not  find  the 
immortal  passage  beginning 

Ricorditi  di  me  che  son  la  Pia : 
Siena  mi  fe,  disfecemi  Maremma. 

In  these  days,  however,  there  is  no  means  of  satis- 
fyirig  a  Dantophile  short  of  quoting  the  entire 
*  Divina  Com  media.'  There  is  less  need  of  a  hand- 
book to  Italian  quotations  than  for  one  to  French. 
The  present  is,  however,  welcome.  We  (gladly  hail 
the  new  volume,  and  place  it  at  hand  by  its  fellows 
for  constant  reference.  The  indexes  are  all  that 
can  be  desired,  and  the  cross-references  seem  to  us 
better  than  in  the  previous  volumes. 

Robert  Loum  Stevensoti:  a  Life  Stiuly  in  Criticvtm, 

By  H.  Bellyse  Baildon.  (Chatto  k  Windus.) 
Mr.  Baildon  was  Stevenson's  schoolfellow  in  1864 
and  1865  at  the  day-school  of  Mr.  Robert  Thom- 
son, M.A.,  Frederick  Street,  Edinburg^h,  and  en- 
{'oyed  a  certain  amount  of  juvenile  intimacy  with 
lim.  Since  Stevenson's  death  Mr.  Baildon  has 
written  concerning  him  in  Temple  Bar^  lectured  on 
him  in  Ensland  and  Scotland,  and  contributed  to 
Englinche  Studient  edited  by  the  late  Prof.  Koel- 
bing,  of  Breslau,  a  series  of  articles  in  English. 
He  has  now  issued  what  claims  rather  to  oe  a 
critical  estimate  of  Stevenson  than  a  life,  and  has 
enjoyed  the  exceptional  advantage  of  having  it 
issued  by  Messrs.  Chatto  &  Windus,  the  publishers 
of  Stevenson's  best  books,  in  the  same  shape  as 
Stevenson's  own  works.  A  book  seeing  the  light 
under  such  conditions  is  likely  to  share  a  measure 
of  the  popularitv  enjoyed  by  the  works  with  which 
it  deals,  a  result  to  which  the  inclusion  of  two 
admirably  characteristic  portraits  of  Stevenson  will 
further  contribute.  Not  specially  novel  or  im- 
portant is  what  Mr.  Baildon  has  to  tell  us  concern- 
ing Stevenson's  personality.  Of  the  opportunities  of 
visiting  the  author  of  *  Catriona,'  *  Weir  of  Her- 
miston,'  and  *The  New  Arabian  Nights'  which 
were  afforded  him  he  was  unable  to  avail  himself, 
and  he  has  consequentlylittle  to  add  to  what  has  been 
said  by  others  more  happily  situated.  Mere  scraps 
of  information  concerning  Stevenson's  quaint  and 
delightful— if  in  a  sense  rather  perverse—individu- 
ality are  welcome;  and  it  is  interesting  to  find 
him,  even  in  early  school-days,  collaborating  with 
Mr.  Baildon  in  a  novel,  the  plot  of  which  waa  ot 
,  the  true  Stevensonian  tyye^itAiwssQftXMsa^^^^aAASA^ 


240 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9*  s.  vil  mabch  23, 1901. 


and  its  ch&rmct@ra  including  *'a  monetroufl  N&gro 
of  colosaal  villiLiny."  Some  few  lines  of  verse 
written   by  Stevenson  at  the  age  of  tMrteen  are 

S'ven,  togetJier  with  extracts  ffom  his  letters  of 
ter  date.  The  bulk  of  the  volume  is  made  up  of 
criticism,  ueuftlly  sound  enoug^h,  of  StevcTison'fl 
writings.  There  is  the  imrallel  already,  il  ia  sad 
to  thinks  inevitable  between  ^tevenaou  and  Seott ; 
there  is  an  explanatiou  of  Steven  son's  attitude 
towards  Bums,  with  which  hia  critic  does  not 
symmthi^e.  There  is  much  praise  of  Stevenson's 
*Child'a  Garden  of  Verses,'  Is  it  quite  exact  that 
the  cow  in  Scotland,  aa  deaoribea  by  Stevenson 
in  lines  quoted  hy  hie  critic, 

Walks  among  the  meadow  graaa 
And  eats  the  meadow  flowers? 
We  are  not  always  in  accord  with  the  opinions 
ex|}reased  by  Mr,  Baildon,  but  he  says  much  that 
is  judicious  and  some  tbiugs  that  are  valuable. 
Re  can  scarcely  be  famLliar  with  Scott  when  he 
Btjbftka  of  a  "Bailie  Nicol  Jarvie  or  a  bagald 
Cratur."  What  seems  here  to  be  a  pmper  name 
should,  of  courset  be  *Vthe  Dougal  creature"  or 
'*  the  IXiugal  cratur/'  **  The  creature  Dou;^  *'  Rob 
Roy  bimself  calls  him.  The  IjcKik  is  agreeably 
written,  and  may  be  read  with  pleasure  i»nd 
advantage, 

TiiK  Idler  maguj&ine  has  now  |>assed  into  the 
hands  of  that  enteii^riaing  drra  Mesara.  Daw  barn  k 
Ward,  untie r  whom  it  is  hkely  to  obtain  augmented 
popularity*  Its  illustrations  are  excellent.  The 
contents  consist  principally  of  tiotiou,  but  there  are 
8ome  articles  of  permanent  interest. 

The  LtJtih  Mtniuru  has  celebrated^  by  the  reissue 
of  the  number  for  7  March,  ISOl,  the  fact  that  the 
newspaper  has  been  for  a  hundred  years  in  the 
hands  el  the  Baincs  family.  The  number  reprinted 
contains  the  announcement  that  the  pajter  bag  been 
purchased  by  Edward  Baincs,  Tliis  lon^  proprietor- 
ship of  a  journal  by  the  same  familv  ia  rare,  and 
almost  unique*  W e  ba  ve  had  pc rson al  acq ualn t^nce 
with  many  members  of  the  family,  fionj  the  founder 
onward,  and  can  bear  testimony  to  the  aeal  and 
ener^  that  have  secured  the  newspaper  its  exem- 
plary nosition  in  country  journalism.  It  would  be 
possible,  did  apace  permit,  to  extract  much  inter- 
esting  matter  from  tlie  number  now  reprinted. 

Among  other  papers*  Foik-Lort  for  March  con- 
tains an  instructive  r^mitni  of  the  old  Irish  (!a6twf  or 
aeosci..  The  actions  which  are  still  esteemed  to 
h&  essentially  unlucky  in  the  British  Islands  and 
W*eateni  Europe  have  yet  to  be  brought  together, 
but  there  is  no  reason  to  doubt  that  at  some  future 
day  anthropologist*  will  show  that  ta^n  beliefs 
were  anciently  of  great  power  among  our  pre- 
decessors. Another  paper  on  the  folk-lore  of  South - 
West  Wiltshire  mentions  "  trap  "  as  a  Fahn  tsunday 
amusement :  **  The  young  men.  with  the  elders  to 
watch  them,  would  *  beat  the  ball '  up  Cow -down 
and  then  play  trap**'  Was  this  ball  game,  like  so 
many  others  in  Europe,  India,  and  elsewhere,  a 
degraded  form  of  religious  obiervance  ooanected 
with  nature  worship? 

The  February  number  of  the  Librwry  Jomiml 

deak  wJth  several  imeationa  worthy  of  conddera- 

tiotjt  »mong  which  *' Should  libraries  buy  only  the 

best   bof^t  or  the  best  books  that  people  i?ill  i  < 

rendf"  im  of  senom  importiuce,     The  epreskd  ol^ 


education  in  both  America  and  the  British  Empire 

shows  only  too  clearly  how  few  brains  have  a  r^ 
aptitude  for  recognizing  tho  artistic  value  of  tnte 
literature  or  for  absorbing  scholarly  instruction, 
and  the  head  of  a  free  library  is  bound  to  remem- 
ber that  the  general  reader  cares  only  for  amuse- 
ment and  relaxatian.  His  mental  energies  are 
already  overtaxed  by  the  demands  of  aocial  exiav 
ence,  and,  though  far  from  being  a  dullard  m 
matters  which  give  his  inborn  tendencies  proper 
play,  he  is  incapable  of  fijcing  attention  ou  any 
book  which  requires  serious  effort  of  mind. 


aaaix  as  a  ''  mother-naked  man,"  the  papers  of 
me  de  Pompadour,  Rudyard  Kiplin^s  *  Jungle 
i,*  and  the  derivation  of  the  woi9  **blu4** 


Th£  htiermidiairt  deals,  as  heretofore,  with  the 
niost  diverse  subjects,  aueh  aa  the  statue  represent- 
ing Desaix  as  a  ^'^TnntTinr.nQL^nurl  mM«i  **  i^V.m.  «.««^ ^  „( 

Madame  f'    ~ 

Books,'  _,   ,„.  „__ 

*  N,  k  Q.'  itself  does  not  afford  its  readers  a  wider 
range  of  information. 

The  February  number  of  the  AfUiqnary  couUins, 
amon^  other  articles  of  merit,  a  description  of  the 
htivrgtcal  fan  and  a  fifteenth-century  life  of  Su 
Dorothea.  In  the  issue  of  the  same  magazine  for 
March  appears  part  of  a  paper  on  the  treatment  of 
our  prisoners  of  war  a  century  ago,  which  ia  worth 
attention  ;  while  in  the  '  Notes  of  the  Month '  there 
is  a  description  of  the  fragment  of  a  curious  mortar 
found  near  the  remains  of  a  Roman  villa  lately 
discovered  at  Kothley,  Leicestcrahire.  ''The  mortar 
was  of  pot t-ery- ware,  the  inside  being  lined  with 
small  fiiiits  pressed  into  the  clay  before  baking." 


Wt  must  call  special  aUetUKm  to   iht  Mlomno 

On  all  communieations  must  be  written  the  Dame^ 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub 
licatioHi  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith, 

W£  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queriee  primtptir  m  _ 
To  secure  insertion  of  communications  c 
spondents  must  observe  the  following  rules,  l« 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separat 
slip  of  pai:Kjr^  with  the  aignature  of  the  writer  ai^^ 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answes^, 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  prerio^^-^ 
entries  in  the  pai>er,  contributors  are  retiue,^ted        ^ 

put  in  ijaren theses,   immediately  after  the _ci 

headingi  the  series,  volume,  and  jmg^  or  page:5  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  t«pi^s»t 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  oc^to- 
muni  call  on  ^'  Duplicate,'^ 

M.  L.  R,  B.  (**Credat  Juda^us  Apolla*'L  — X^i§ 
has  already  been  diH^naaed  in  9^  Ji,  in,  S36and  l^t«r 
references.  Modem  acholara  do  not  believe  in  tht 
resolution  of  Ape  Ilea  into  apdU. 

W,  L.  K  (**  Peace  with  honour '*).  — This  ha 
already  been  considered ;  see  5*  S.  jr  386  •  fi<*  R  r. 
346,  m I  vL  mi  vii,  6g,  355.  ^^^^^^ 

NOTiCS. 

Editorial  GomintmicatioaB  should  be  addnve^to 

The  Mitor  of  Notes  and  Queries '  "-Advarti*- 
mentfi  and  B^^eu  letters  to  *'Tbe  Publisbfr"- 
at  the  Uffice,  Bream  s  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  E.C. 

W©  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  n?tui» 
communications  which,  for  ajiy  rwason,  we  do  not 
'  pmi\i  V  w\^  V>  \.^ii3i  tub  we  can  make  no  exoeptio& 


9»  S.  VII.  March  -23.  1901.)      NOTES   AND    QUERIES. 

Crown  8vo,  pp.  620,  clotb,  Persian  morocco  back,  top  edge  gilt,  5«. 

CLASSICAL  AND  FOREIGN  QUOTATIONS, 

Law  Terms  and  Maxims,  Proverbs,  Mottoes,  Phrases  and  Expressions 
in  French,  German,  Greek,  Italian,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  Portuguese, 

WITH    TliANSLATIONS,  REFERENCES,  EXPLANATORY    NOTES  and   INDEXES. 
By  WM.  FRANCIS  HENRY  KING,  M.A.,  Ch.  Ch.,  Oxford. 


London:   J.   WHITAKER   &  SONS,    12,    Warwick    Lane,    E.C. 

WHITAKER'S    PEERAGE. 

A   COMPLETE   PEERAGE,   BABONETAQE,   KNIGHTAGE   AND 

GOHPANIONAGE. 

Whitaker's  Peerage  contains  everything  asoally  soagbt  for  in  a  work  of  the  kind,  with  many  particulars 

not  to  be  found  elsewhere. 

ENLARGED    AND    IMPROVED. 

PRICE   TWO   SHILLINGS   AND   SIXPENCE. 

Or  full  royal  blue  roan,  gilt  edges,  48.  6d.  net. 


WHITAKER'S   ALMANACK   FOR    1901. 

This  has  been  again  enlarged  by  sixteen  pages,  and  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  ioformatioD, 
ooQtains  the  Members  of  the  New  Parliament,  the  newly  coostituted  London  Borough  Councils,  and  the 
new  London  School  Board,  also  a  variety  of  other  interesting  Articles  on  subjects  of  General  Interest. 

Crown  8vo,  paper  covers.  Is. ;  or,  with  Appendix,  half  bound,  28.  6d. 


London :  J.  WHITAKER  &  SONS,  12,  Warwick  Laii«^  1S..Q.. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [»*  s.  vil  march  23,  iwi. 

"  The  Qarden&rt*  Chronicle  has  faithfully  held  to  its  promises.  It  is  still,  to-day,  the  beet  gaxdening 
journal,  being  indispensable  equally  to  the  practical  gardener  and  the  man  of  science,  because  each 
finds  in  it  something  useful.    We  wish  the  journal  still  farther  success." — Garten  Flora,  Berlin,  Jan.  15 

"The  Gardeners*  Chronicle  is  the  leading  horticultural  journal  of  the  world,  and  an  historical 
publication.  It  has  always  excited  our  respectful  admiration.  A  country  is  honoured  by  the  possessioQ 
of  such  a  publication,  and  the  greatest  honour  we  can  aspire  to  is  ta  furnish  our  own  country  with  s 
journal  as  admirably  conducted." — La  Semaine  EorHcole,  Feb.  13, 1897. 

"  The  Gardeners'  Chronicle  is  the  most  important  horticultural  journal  in  the  world,  and  the  most 
generally  acknowledged  authority.** — Le  Monitew  d'Hortieulture,  Sept.,  1898. 


The   Oldest  Horticultural   Newspaper. 

THE 

iL  GARDENERS'    „\t 
"^      CHRONICLE.    - 

(The   'Times'   of  Horticulture.) 
FOR  SIXTY  YEARS  THE  LEADING  JOURNAL 


Its  Contributors  oomprise  the  most 

Experienced  British  Gaxdeners, 

and  many  of  the  most 

Eminent  Men  of  Science 

at  Home  and  Abroad. 

IT  HAS  AN  INTERNATIONAL  REPUTATION  FOR  ITS  ILLUSTRATF  €)N8 

OF  PLANTS. 


Specimen  Copy  post  free  on  application  to  the  Publisher, 

H.  G.  COVE,  41,  Wellington  Street,  Strand,  London. 

Telegraphic  Address-OARDCHRON,  LONDON.  Telephone  No.  1543  GBRIUBD.  Jj^ 

*^*  May  he  ordered  of  aU  Booksellere  and  NevosagenU^  and  at  the  Railway  BoohUik        ^ 


Fiinted  b/  JOHN  BDWARD  PE\NC18,  Attwuseum  Vt«%%,  ftwMtf  %%oS\AVftt»,CliM(Berr  Um.  E.a  t  Md  P«Mlih«i  bf 
/OHM  0.  FKAMCIB  ttt  Bratm't  B«a«LnC»,  CtaAMH  \A9U,lL<^.-a«Mgr4n|,  Umi<ek  U,  VHL 


NOTES   AND   QUERIES: 

i  IBUhmn  oi  |nUr(«mm»nt(Btt«n 


LITERARY     MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


*WkM  kmai,  make  •  iwto  at**— Capt^h  Oumd. 


No.  170,  [b"^.]  Satuedat,  Mabch  30,  1901.         { 


PrnMom  FouBPBvoK. 


MAOMILLAN  &  CO/  S  LIST. 


IMPORTANT  NEW  BOOK  ON  CHINA. 

A  TEAR  in  CHINA,  1899-1900.    By  CUve  Bigham,  C.M.6.,  late 

Attach6  to  H.M.  Legatdon  at  Peking.   With  lUastratioiiB.   8to,  8«.  64.  net    ^Beady  on  Tuetday. 

VOL.  III.  NOW  RBADT. 

The  SCIENTIFIC  MEMOIRS  of  THOMAS  HENBT  HUXLET. 

Edited  by  Prof.  Sir  MICHAEL  FOSTER,  K.C.B.  M.A.  M.D.  LL.D.  F.R.8.,  and  by  Prof.  B.  RAY 
LANKESTER, M.A. LL.D.  F.R.8.  In  4  vols.  Vol.  I.  25«.  net;  Vol.  II.  S0#.  net ;  YoL  IIL  90s.  net 
(Bold  in  Sets  only.)  

RECENT  DISCOVERIES  IN  CRETE. 
NOW  READY,  4to,  lOs.  6d. 

The  ANNUAL  of  the  BRITISH   SCHOOL  at  ATHENS. 

No.  YI.  SESSION  1899-1900. 
*  *  The  Contento  include  the  Pieliminary  Reports  (1)  by  Mr.  ARTHUR  BYANS  on  <The  PALACE 
^t  KN08S0S';  (2)  by  Mr.  D.  G.  HOGARTH  on  <The  DICTAEAN  CAYS.'    Both  are  the  fullest  state- 
'^^cits  yet  published,  and  are  abundantly  illustrated. 


58,000 

Copies  sold. 


ILLUSTRATED  PRESENTATION  EDITIONS  NOW  READY. 

ELIZABETH  and  her  GERMAN  GARDEN.    Extra 

Grown  8to,  Illustrated  Edition,  white  buokram,  gilt  edges,  8#.  6d,  net.  Ordinary 
Edition,  6i, 


27,000     The  SOLITARY  SUMMER.     By  the  Author  of 

'  Elisabeth  and  her  German  Garden.'    Extra  crown  8vo.    Illustrated  Edition, 
Copies  sold.  white  buckram,  gilt  edges,  8#.  6d,  net    Ordinary  Edition,  6«. 


1 


MAGMILLAN'S  MAGAZINE. 

Prtoelj.    Omtemtt/or  APMZL. 
UrSRATUaB  Ud  DBMOCBACY. 
'^  BBCRSr  of  IBBLAND.    Bj  StephMi  Owyim. 
VnTDOB  IB  SHAKlSPaAUrS  mSTOST.     Bj  J.   L.   Btty. 

BearyVIII. 
Ike  CZHSUB-SCHBDVLB.    By  0«orge  Biaet. 
tCABimiO  HOUSB. 

a  tka  ADVAMCa    B7BnattD»WMB(L«aidea'tHorM). 
IW  laLAKD  fl<  «te  OUaaBMT.    By  ChtflM  BdmurdM. 


Ihi  SDilim  sad  «te  PROBLBIL    By  Brio  Fftrker.    (Conoltttioa.) 
Ihi  MAM  is  «te  RAMXS.   By  Om  who  bM  Serrwl. 


THE  GENTUBT  MAGAZINE. 

Uliutntad.   Frioe  U.  U. ;  Annml  SubMripOoa,  poK  free,  ie«. 
Th$  APRIL  KumkertMttamt:— 
FBBSON AL  KBMnilSGBMOBS  of  QUBEN  VICTU&IA. 
D'&I  ud  L    XL    By  IrrlBic  BMheUer. 
"D0U3B."   ByJohaLottaorLonff. 
DOWN  the  BHINB.    in.   Kobleu   U>    Hotterdam.    By  AafUMiiae 

BliTeU.K.C.   FieMret  by  AadM  Gtatal(iie. 
The  CRAOX  la  the  HBADBOABD.    By  Bdwln  Am  DU.  Avthor  of 

'  DeeeoB  Brndbnry.' 
OLD  MAMO&  HOUSB  OABOBNS.    By  Bom  Studlsh  Nichols. 
And  nomeiou  other  BloilM  and  AitMlM  «t  Q%TwnV.VBiiKc«i9(.. 


MAOMILLAN  M  CO.,  LIMITED,  LondoiL 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9»8.vilmabch30.i80L 


0 


MABCH  MUMBBR  NOW  RBADY. 

MORING'S        QUARTERLY. 
An  Illiutt»t«d  Journal  devoted  to  Art,  ArehaDoloffy  and 
Heraldry. 
Price  U. ;  hj  post,  1«.  Sd.    Mo.  XVII.  commences  a^New  Series. 
ConUnts. 
F&BNCH  ART  of  the  PAST  at  the  PARIS  EXHIBITION.    lUttstrmted. 
The  Rr)MAN  OAMP  at  RIKDOS  WALO     Illiutrated. 
OLD-WOELH  NABCB-PUNNINO. 
NOTB8  on  BXTRA-PAROCHIAL  RBOI8TER8. 
The  "NBW  GBNBALOOY." 

The  DB  LA  MORE  PRBSS,  52.  High  Holbom.  London,  W.C. 

TBNTH  EDITION,  priee  Two  ShilUngs. 

CELESTIAL     MOTIONS:     a    Handy    Book    of 
Astronomy.    Tenth  Edition.    With  9  Plates.    By  W.  T.  LYNN, 
B  A.  F.R.A.S. 

"  Has,  we  are  clad  to  see.  reached  a  ninth  edition,  wiiieb  enables  this 
•xeallent  Introdnedon  to  the  facts  of  astronomy  to  be  brought  np  to 
date."— OMordtan. 

SAMPSON  LOW  ft  CO.  St.  Dnnatan's  Hoom,  Fetter  Lane,  B  C. 
NOW  READY.  SBOOND  EDITION,  KBVI8ED  and  BNLAROBD. 

THE    PENNY    CHRONOLOGY:    a    Series    of 
Important  Dates  in  the  History  of  the  World  from  the  Reign  of 
Darid  to  the  Present  Time.    Second  Edition.    By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A. 

O.  STUNBMAN,  39,  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 

MOW  RBADY,  SECOND  EDITION,  RBVI8BD  and  AUOMBNTED, 
price  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A.  F.R.A.S. 
O.  8T0NEMAN.  89.  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 

Second  Bdlttoa,  priee  Fonrpenee 

BRIEF       LESSONS       in       ASTRONOMY. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN.  B.A   F.R.A.8 
"OOBTeTS  affreatdsal-ol  taformation  wlthovt  b«inc  in  any  way  dry 
or  Mctanieal."— X«nl««4  Mmrewt 

O.  STONEMAN.  89,  Warwick  Lane.  B.C 

BOOKSELLERS'  SEASIDE  HOLIDAY  HOME, 
48.  ROYAL  PARADE.  BABTBOURNB. 

The  abOTe  Home  has  been  established  for  the  benett  of  Booksellers, 
their  Asrtstanu.  and  Families.  Suites  of  Rooms,  or  tingle  Bedrooms, 
earn  be  had  furnished,  with  eooking  and  atteadaaee,  at  very  moderate 
charges  per  week. 

The  Home  is  replete  with  erery  comfort,  and.  fladng  the  sea  front, 
forms  a  most  charming  residence  for  those  desiring  rest  and  a 
toitaight'i  sojourn  at  Hat  most  lorely  seaaide  resort. 

All  particulars  and  forms  of  applicatioa  can  be  had  of  the  Secretary, 
Mr.  Oao.  Luuna,  at  the  London  Offloe,  28,  Paternoster  Row,  B.C. 

STICEPHAST    PASTE    is   HEAPS  better  than 
Oum  for  sticking  in  Sermpa,  Joining  Papers.  *e.    Si.  and  U.  with 
strong,  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy).   Send  two  stamps  to  ooTerpoeiage 

' pie  Bottle,  iaeluding  Brush.     Faetory.  Sugar  Loaf  Court, 

1  Street,  B.C.    Of  aU  StatiOMr^     -^  -^  _  ^— ^  — 1  -^ . 


■GHWBPPBS  WATBRA  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  Intaraatloul 
Exhibition,  Paris.  1900. 

SGHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda. 

THESE  WATERS  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
A  le,  &c.,  &o.)  bare  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 


(    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:— 
\  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN, 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS. 

S0HWSPFB8,  LTD.,  IiONDOH,   MaLYBRN, 
OLAB0OW,  LITMMFOOL.  XBifTOL.  8YOMBT,  aad  MBLBOTJUIB. 


•I 


NOTICE.— FRIDAY  NEXT  being  GOOD 
FRIDAY,  NOTES  and  QUERIES  will  be 
published  on  THURSDAY,  at  lo  o'clock.— 
ADVERTISEMENTS  should  be  at  the  Office 
not  later  than  5  o'clock  on  TUESDAY  After- 
noon. 


NOTES  AND  QUER[E8.-The  SUBSCRIPTION 
to  N0TE8  AND  QUBRIBS  tree  bj  post  Is  10*.  S<l.  for  StX  MOBtkB; 

or  Ks.  6d.  for  Twelye  Months,  indndiof  the  V<dame  lodes JOUH  Q. 

F&A^CI8.  yous  and  QuerUs  Office,  Hraam's  BoUdlncs,  Ctaamrj  Um. 

T^HE    CORONATION    of    QUEEN    VICTORIA. 

FOR  8ALB  a  Copj  of  the  SUN.  Seooad  Vdltlon.  Jom  28.  tm, 
printed  In  Gold.  oontainlnK  a  FnU  Acooant  of  the  Qaeea*s  Goroasiiea 
and  a  ])eseriptton  of  the  State  Ourlayes  of  Marshal  Sovit  aad  tfes 
other  Ambassadors.— Offers  requested  to  Z..  AtbeiuNua  Prees.  Braus^ 
Buildings,  Chancery  Lane.  B.C. 

BOOKS.  M8S.,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 
00.,  Auctioneers  of  Books  and  Literary  Propertj  of  vmj 
description.  Libraries  and  smaller  Collections  carefallj  Ostalsfssi 
and  promptly  offiore^  lor  Sale  Packiair  and  Kemoral  arraarsd  isr. 
Vaiaations  made  for  Probate  or  other  purposes.  Anctioa  E/oomM,  US, 
Ohaacery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end).    Bstablished  ISOQ 


c 


ULLETON'S    HERALDIC     OFFICI 

tor  Searehes  aad  AutheuUe  laf onnatioB  nwpeeiiBff 

ARMOBLAL    BBA&INOS   AND   FAMILY    DKBCBNTB. 

With  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artistic  ProdneUoa  eC 

HBRALDIC  PAINTING  AND  BNORAVINO. 

Book'Flatee,  Seals.  Dies,  Slf  net  Rings.  Lirery  Buttons,  Crested  Vm- 

Paper,  Visiting  and  InTitatton  Cards,  *e. 


0>.  PIOOADILLT,  LONDON  (opposite  tJM  OraM  Park). 


BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  sup- 
plied,  no  matter  on  what  Subject.  Acknowledged  U«  wofM  «*« 
as  th«>  must  sspert  H<kiii finders  eitant.  Please  tr«ie  waata.— UAUIV 
Great  Bookshop,  14-10.  John  Bright  Street,  Birmiagham. 

FIRST  EDITIONS  of  MODERN  AUTHORS, 
iaeluding  Dickens,  Thackeray,  Lever,  Ainsworth;  Boeki  Diss- 
trated  by  O.  and  R.  Crulkshaok,  Phix,  Rowlandson.  Leech,  Ac  TM 
largMt  and  choicest  Collection  oflhred  tor  Sale  ia  the  World.  GmS' 
logues  issued  and  sent  post  free  oa  applicatioa.  Books  ksviK.' 
WALTER  T.  SPBNCBR,  27,  New  Oxford  Street,  Loadoa.  W.C 

EXCHANGE  (or  would  SUB-LBT)  for  TUBtt 
MONTHS,  a  HOtJSB  la  South- West  Saburb  (561.  rsalsl)  for  s 
Resideaoe  in  the  Country,  or  Seaside.— Apply  F..  Athea^oB  ttm 
Bnams BuUdiags,  B.U. 


ATHEN^UM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  AUunmum.  KMumnd  fkmH$M,  As.  k 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  B8TIMATB8  for  all  kinds  of  BOOK.  MVI. 
aad  PBRIODICAL  PRINTINO.— U,  Bream's  BnUdiags,  ChsssnT 
Laae,  B.C. 


THE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPBR-PAD. 
(Ths  LBABBNHALL  PBB88.  Ud..  Pabllahanaad  riielii 
M,  LMtaeahall  Street.  Loadoa.  B.C.) 
Centaint  hairless  paper,  over  which   the   pea   sUps  with   scHari 
freedom     Kiipeaee  eaeh.    5«.  per  dosea.  rated  er  plain.    MewFsiM 
Sise.  8«.  per  dosea,  ralad  or  plala. 
ABthon>  should  aoie  that  The  Leadenhall  Preea,  Ltd..  eaaasi  N 

respoaalble  tor  the  less  of  MS6  by  Are  or  otherwise.    

should  be  r«talaed. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

(X)FF£S— 8U0AB— TBA. 

104,  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  WX. 


maboh3o,i9oi.]    notes  and  queries. 


241 


ON,  SATURDAY,  MABCff  SO,  190U 


CONTENTS. -No.  170. 
e  lint  Norwich  Printer,  Ml— BzeoatioiM  at 
I  Bltewhere,  242  —  Genealogical  R«wearch  in 
4— Sandwich  Men— "Qui  vlve?"  346-Pope'8 
\  Use  —  Whitman's  **  Hexameters  "—Queen's 
iford  — Mock  Bullfight  on  Ohristmae  Bve  — 
Barberini.  246. 

"Juggins"  — "Non  terra  sed  aquis'*  — Dr. 
«on— "Tout  lasse— t.out  casse^tout  passe*'— 
—  Old  Feudal  Rights,  Ac.  — St.  Christopher 
ter  — Brcckenridge,  247  — Green  of  Wyken— 
rn  Book  '-Disguise  of  Man  as  Woman -'Author 
•n  Wanted— Orowned  Heads— Oomio  Dialogue- 
welding  and  Brillat-Savarin,  24d  — Morsay, 
Marsay  —  "  Colpeara  "  —  Barl  of  Hyndfdnrs 
-Nursery  Rime— John  Jones  the  Regicide,  249. 
Thackeray— Bishop  of  Mons  Maran us— Daisy 
nfidential  War  Dispatches— "Ance  maHole 
id- Fi  ve, "  S-M)— Margaret  of  Bavaria —Jfargaret 
,— Lines  on  the  Skin  — "Mad  as  a  hatter"- 
the  Irish  Famine  —  Oradle  Commissions  — 
e  Famdv,  251  —  Woore.  in  Salop  -**  Wise  "— 
-Barly  Steam  Navigation.  262  —  Leghorn — 
ioknames  -Blackheads— Berners  Family,  253- 
id  -Whifflers  and  Whiffling -**  Bull  and  Last," 
speare  the  **  Knavish  "-Worcestershire  Folk- 
indy-legged,"  266  -  Henry  VIL  -  Whitglffs 
Croyion,  256  —  London  Evening  Paper  — 
-  Doubtful  Passages  in  Chancer,  267  —  **  The 
gro  boy  "— "  Put  a  spoke  in  the  wheel  "—Gun 
eneca  and  Galen —  "  Rouen  "  and  **Suoceda- 
I 

BOOKS  :— Bezant's  •  Bast  London '  —  Oolyer- 
s  *  Marriage  Registers  of  St.  Dunstan's.  Step- 
iperx's  *  Greek  Thinkers '— *  Byegones  relating 
fcnd  the  Border  Counties '  —  *  Ooutts  ft  Co.'— 
3ns  of  the  United  Bmpire  Loyalists'  Association.' 


NY   DE  80LEMNE,   THE   FIRST 
NTER  AT  NORWICH  (1665-80). 
,  in  his  *  Typographical  Gazetteer' 
mentions    two    works  printed    at 
by  Ant.  de  Solerane,  and  now  pre- 
1    the    library  of  Trinity  College, 

0  which  thev  were  bequeathed  by 
op  Usher.    These  are  (1)  "  De  CL. 

Davids    uut   den    Franchoyschen 

1  Nederlandtschen  ouerghesett  door 
Dathenum Tot  Noorwitz  ghe- 

Anthonium   de   Solemne.     Anno 
.";  (2)"Eenen  Calendier  Historiael 

c    geduerende mdlix."    Mv  old 

J.  Stewart,  of  King  William  Streetw 
lent  me  many  years  ago  a  copy  ot 
o  (bound  together),  from  which  I 
e  full  titles :  what  became  of  it  after- 
enow  not,  but  it  was  believed  to  be 
one  then  known  to  exist,  excepting 
it  Dublin.  I  have,  however,  a  strong 
an  that  it  passed  into  the  hands  of 
am  Tite :  and,  if  so,  it  was  bought  by 
Mr.  B.  Quaritch  (for  96/.)  at  the  sale 
^  Titers  library  in  1874.  Hence,  if  I 
mistaken,  there  are  only  two,  or  if 
mart's  copy  was  not  that  which  Sir 
had,  there  are  to  this  da^y  only  three  ^ 


copies  known  to  exist;  and  the  present  abiding 
place  of  only  one  of  the  three  (or  two)  is 
Known.  The  Dublin  volume  has,  moreover, 
bound  with  it  a  third  work^  of  which  no  other- 
copy  has  yet  been  heard  of,  viz.,  "Het  Nieawe 
Testament,  in  Nederduytsohe  na  der  Griek- 
scher  waerney  t  ouergeseU^  met  de  An  notatien 

August.  Marlorati Gearuct  int  Jaer  1568.'' 

Of  this  last  Cotton  remarks  that  although  it 
has  neither  the  name  of  the  printer  nor  place 
of  printing,  **  there  cannot  be  the  slightest 
doubt  that  this,  as  well  as  the  other  two,  is 
the  product  of  Anthony  Solemne*s  press.'' 

We  learn  further  from  the  first  volume  of 
the  *  Gazetteer '  that  the  library  of  T.C.D. 
possesses  another  work,  "  Het  tweede  boeck 
van  de  sermoenen  des  wel  vermaerden  Pre- 
dicants B.  C^melis  Adriaenssen  van  Dor- 
drecht  nueerstmael  in  Druck  uutgegeven, 

buyten  Noirdwitz,  1578."  The  printer's  name 
does  not  appear,  and  the  expression  *' buy  ten- 
Noirdwitz^'  may  seem  rather  doubtful;  still, 
as  (Jotton  justly  says,  "from  the  similarity 
both  of  type  and  general  appearance  I  have 
no  hesitation  in  adiudgin^  it  to  the  press  of 
Antony  Solempne.  This  volume  appears 
to  be  unique ;  at  all  events,  I  have  never  yet 
heard  of  a  copy  in  any  library,  public  or 

Erivate,  nor  found  mention  of  it  in  any 
ibliographical  work,  English  or  foreign. 
A  "broadside,"  also  unique,  in  the  Bod- 
leian Librarv,  sums  up  the  account  of 
Solemne  ana  the  early  Norwich  press  in 
Cotton's  first  volume.  The  title  is  "  Certayne 
versis  written  by  Thomas  Brooke,  Gentleman, 
in  the  tyme  of  his  imprysonment  the  daye 
before  his  deathe,  who  suffered  at  Norwich 
the  30  of  August,  1570,  imprynted  at  Norwich 
by  Anthony  de  Solempne,  1570";  but  when 
his  second  volume  appeared,  in  1866,  we 
find  that  Cotton  had  heard  from  Mr.  Boone 
(of  Bond  Street)  of  two  more  books,  viz.,  *  A 
Confession  of  Faith  by  the  Ministers  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  Switzerland  and  in 
France,'  Nordwitz,  by  Antonius  Solemne, 
1568,  and  "  A  History  of  the  Wars,  Troubles, 
and  Uproars  in  the  Netherlands,  &c,  Ge- 
druckt  tot  Noortwitz  (1580),  na  de  oopie  van 
Basel,  anno  1579."  The  titles  of  these  two,  it 
will  be  observed,  are  given  in  English,  doubt- 
less as  they  were  sent  to  Cotton  by  Mr.  Boone ; 
but  they  are  evidently  both  Dutch  books, 
although  I  know  nothing  of  the  first,  nor 
what  has  now  become  of  it;  but  the  second 
can  be  no  other  than  the  '  Henricipetri 
Cronyc '  which  is  -  now  in  the  Bodleiui, 
another  copy  having  been  bought  by  the 
British  Museum  in  December.  1871^  and  s^ 
third  appearing  in  MfiASXE.  mv^  h.  "^^ws^f  ^ 
catalogue  of  1887. 


242 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.   [9«»  s.  vii.  mabch  30.  i9ol 


Laatl3%  we  are  told  that  Mr.  Stewart  had 
in  one  of  hia  catalogues  (1863)  another  book 
entitled  'Divioorura  Openira  Tabula;  Tableau 
de  rOSuvrede  Dieu/  said  tt)  have  been  printod 
in  Latin,  French,  Dutch »  and  English  about 
the  year  1569.  Cotton's  account  is  not  very 
clear,  but  he  says  that  Mr.  Stewart's  copy 
was  "  in  Frencli  and  Latin,"  and  that  no  copy 
of  the  Dutch  or  English  version  is  known. 
The  author,  Ant.  Corranus,  seems  to  have 
been  a  man  of  some  note  in  hia  day,  having 
bcsen  at  one  time  a  lecturer  in  divinity  at 
Oxford,  and  afterwards  at  the  Terapfe  in 
London  ;  he  was,  moreover,  a  prebendary  of 
St.  Paul's,  He  is  several  times  mentioned  by 
Bishop  Grindal  in  his  letters  to  Secretary 
Cecily  and  more  will  be  found  of  him  in 
Strype's  '  Life  of  Grindal'  I  cannot  find  any 
catalogue  of  Mr.  Stewart  in  which  the 
Freaeh-Latin  version  ia  mentioned  nor  any 
clue  to  its  present  abiding  place. 

Fk.  NOEOi^TE. 

P.S*— Cotton  says  (18et6,  p.  158) :  ''  A  copy  of 
the  Psalter  of  1G72  [sic]  was  sold  by  auction 
in  London,  in  January,  1863,  for  twenty 
pounds,"  Surely  this  must  be  a  mistake  ;  1 
never  heard  ot  a  Psalter  with  the  date 
1572,  nor  can  I  find  any  sale  catalogue  for 
January,  166Sf  containing  anything  of  the 
kind, 

EXECUTIONS  AT  TYBUEN  AND 

BLSEWHERK 
{OatUinrnd  from p-  Its.) 

Thk  barbarous  execution  of  William  Wal- 
lace, the  renowned  leader  of  the  Scots 
against  the  domination  of  Edward  I.  of 
Enj^lami,  was  carried  out  (23  August,  1305) 
at  "The  Kims."  This,  the  only  contem- 
porary indication  of  the  olace  of  de-ath,  is 
found  in  the  '  Annales  Lonaoniense^  ^  ('  Chro- 
nicles of  the  Reigns  of  Edwards  L  and  II,'), 
where  the  trial  and  condemnation  of  the 
unfortunate  Scot  are  recorded  at  some  tent^th. 
The  sentence  is,  "detrahitur  a  palatio  VVest- 
monaaterii  usque  Turrim  Lomioniarum,  et  a 
Tarri  usque  AUesate,  et   sic    per    medium 

ci  vi  tatis    usque    Ehnes i  bide  t  n    s  u  s  pen  - 

datur,"  Jec.  Observing  the  route  "  from  the 
Tower  to  xildgate,  and  thence  through  the 
middle  of  the  City  to  the  Elnis,^'  it  can 
scarcely  be  doubted  that  the  Elms  were  the 
Elms  of  8mith&eld« 

Other  chroniclers  of  the  time  do  not  par* 
ticularize  the  place,  Adam  Murimuth  has 
simply,  **  1305.  Hoc  anoo  fuit  tractus,  sus- 
decapitatus,   WUlelmus    Waleya 


pensus^    et  ^ 

apad  Londonias.      And  the^Flores  Histon-iesi^ ae  iurn  ijonaomarum  usque  ad  uioidi 

arum/   which   bear  the  name   ilatthew  ot^difeT^^aouiii^^tibidemsuspensus' (Murimiitlii 


Westminster,    have,   "Hie    vir    Belial    [the 

writer   is  evidently  hostile] per  plateai 

Londonise  ad  caudas  equinas  tractus  usque  ad 
patibulum  altissimum  sibi  fahrica^tuoi,  qua 
laqueo  suspensus*"  Then  follow  the  deUib 
of  savage  vengeance  wreaked  on  the  body  of 
the  captive,  begun  indeed  while  be  was  yet 
living  (*^  seraivivua  "), 

Certain  historians  have  b^n  content  to 
leave  the  indication  of  place  as  they  foaad 
it— f.g.,  Holinshed.  Stow*  Speed,  Rapin, 
Henry.  Turner;  others  define  the  locality. 
Thus  Hume  places  the  execution  at  Tow«r 
Hill,  and  Lingard  haa  *'  the  Elms  at  Tyburn"; 
while  Ty  tier  (*  History  of  Scotland  'X  Charles 
Knight,  and  the  *  Dictionary  of  Natioaal 
Biography'  have  — as  I  think,  with  better 
judgment— represented  that  Wallace  suffenad 
at  the  Elms  of  Smithfield.  This  at  tlw 
time  was  the  common  place  of  execution,  and. 
considering  that  every  poisible  indi|^nity  ana 
cruelty  was  allotted  Wallace  by  his  fiercely 
vindictive  conqueror,  it  would  seem  that  Um 
gibbet  of  the  vilest  malefactor  was  de«med 
fittest  for  him. 

John  Stow^s  reference  to  this  place  of  eifr 
cution  has  after  the  lapse  of  300  years  becomi 
so  picturesque  that,  though  it  is  probablj 
well  known,  I  may  be  allowed  to  repeat  k:— 

"This  IB  Smithfield  pond  which  of  old  timet  ni 
cikUed  Horse  Fool,  for  that  men  WR.tered  hm^a 
there,  Aud  w^a  Or  gr^t  w&ter.  In  the  8ih  d 
Hetiry  ^'  [1418-10}  &  new  bailding  w»a  mad*  in 
the  wefit  part  of  Smithfield  betwixt  the  said  pooi 
ftnd  the  River  of  the  Welk^  or  Tuniemill  Brooke, 
in  a  place  then  called  the  Elmes,  for  that  there  irtv 
many  elm- trees  ;  and  tliie  bad  been  the  place  ofttt- 
cntion  for  offenders ;  since  the  which  tiiiie  ti* 
hnildtng  there  hath  h^eri  ^o  i]ier«a«ed  that 
remaineth  not  one  tree  growiog.^' 

This  interesting  description,  written  nearly 
200  years  after  tne  removal  of  the  gibbet  from 
the  Smithfield  elms,  we  take  at  its  value;  ui^ 
having  no  earlier  account  of  the  place,  we  do 
value  it  It  would  appear,  however*  lh*t 
during  the  long  period  when  Smithfield  w« 
the  common  place  of  executions,  th^ 
occasionally,  perhaps  when  the  oondemn^d 
had  special  importance,  were  conducted  &i 
Tyburn.  For  we  have  yet  to  notice  t«o 
hangings  at  T|^bnrn  earlier  than  14 IS. 

Roger  Mortimer,  Earl  of  March,  wis  for 
high  treason  eatecuted  at  Tyburn,  t&  Nov\ 
13S0.  The  contemporary  evidence  resta  solely 
on  the  chronicle  of  Adam  Mui-imuth,  id  one 
copy  of  which  we  have  ''Comes  Marchia 
suspensus  apud  Elmes  super  communi  ftirca 
latronum  "i  and  in  another  copy  is  foimcl 

*  *  Com  es  Marc  hiie,  d  ictus  liogeni  s tn^tiis 

est de  Turn  Londonianim  usque  ad  ulouv 


DOW    : 


ilmabch3o,i9oi.]   NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


243 


EL  M.  Thomi>8on).  Geoffrey  Baker, 
temporary,  gives  no  farther  indica- 
l>he  place  than  "apnd  Elmes,"  and, 
imnth,  he  says  that  the  ^bbet  was 
imon  to  malefactors,  which  almost 

to  think  that  ordinary  criminals 
m  then  executed  at  Tyburn  as  well 
nithfield.  And,  again,  it  must  be 
j  that  Murimuth  could  not  have 
ently  written  Tyburn,  Other  chro- 
^alter  of   Hemin^burgh  (or  Hem- 

Knighton,  Walsmgham,  Fabyan. 
do  not  help  us  to  fix  the  locality  oi 
r's  execution. 

istorian  Holinshed  has :  '*He  [Mor- 
as at  London  drawne  and  hanged  at 
lonplace  of  execution,  called  in  those 
e  Mines  and  now  Tibome^  as  in  some 
>  find."  Even  making  allowance  for 
300  years  old,  Holinshed  is  here  ob- 
d  a  stiff  argument  might  be  waged  as 
waning.  Does  he  or  does  he  not  apply 
mes  and  "  Tibome "  to  the  same 
That  he  does  seems  to  be  the  general 
Ation.  Daniel  (1706)  has :  *' Mortimer 
;ed  at  the  common  gallows  at  the 
w  called  Tyburn."  Speed  (1652)  has : 
le,  the  common  place  of  execution, 
ed  the  Elmes."  Rapin  (1732)  has : 
►urn."  Hume  (1763)  has:  "at  the 
I  the  neighbourhood  of  London." 
.823):  ''at  a  place  called  the  Elms 
lum."  Lineard  (1849):  *'atTjrbum, 
as  it  is  said,  who  honoured  with  his 
at  celebrated  spot."  The  honour  is 
ible,  and  also  the  priority,  for,  as 
34  years  previously  William  Fitz 
ad  \>een  put  to  death  at  Tyburn  ;  the 
owever,  may  not  have  been  the  same, 
the  *  Dictionary  of  National  Bio- 
adopts  the  general  conclusion  that 
er  was  conveyed  through  the  City 
Tower  to  Tyburn  Elms,  and  there 
Irawn,  and  quartered,  like  a  common 
)r." 

bert  Tresilian,  Chief  Justice  of  the 
mch— who  with  Sir  Nicholas  Brem- 
Lord  Mayor  of  London,  and  other 

had  supported  the  young  kin^, 
II.,  in  resisting  the  control  of  his 
Duke  of  Gloucester  and  Parliament 
his  triumphant  enemies  put  to  death 
n,  19  Feb.,  1388.  His  offence,  con- 
n  and  sentence  are  fully  set  forth  in 
t  official  French  of  the  '  Rolls  of  Par- 
iii.238) :  the  sentence  runs  thus  :  "Le 

t  Tresilian feust  de  lui  amesner 

Tour,  ii  d'illeoq*s  lui  treyner  p'mye  la 
Lonndres,  &  avant  tan  g'as  Fonrchee  i 
me,  &  Uleoq'a  lui  pendre  par  le  cool"  I 


And   Henry  Knighton,  contemporary,  thus 

ch  ronicles :      ''  Bobertus     Tressylian dis- 

tractus  est  de  turri  Londoniensi  per  medium 
civitatis  usque  ad  Tybume  ad  furcas  et  sus- 
pensus  est."  Froissart,  also  of  the  time,  varies 
as  to  the  mode  of  execution,  and  has  :  ^*  Sir 
Robert  Triuylian  was  delyured  to  the  hang- 
man, and  so  ledde  out  of  Westmynster,  and 
there  beheeded,  and  after  ha'ged  on  a  gibet" 
Here  the  place  is  not  defined,  nor  is  it  by  the 
other  contemporaries  Thomas  of  Walsingham 
and  William  of  Worcester.  The  latter  has : 
"  Bobertus  Trisilian,  Justiciarius  tocius  An^lise, 
extractus  est  a  sanctuario  Westmonasterii  per 
Thomam  Wodestoke  ducem  Gloucestrise,  et 
postea,  cum  aliis  militibus,  tractus  et  sus- 
pensus  erat." 

The  later  chroniclers  or  historians  who 
mark  Tyburn  as  the  place  of  Tresilian's  exe- 
cution are  Grafton,  Holinshed,  Stow,  Speed, 
Daniel,  and  Rapin ;  while  it  is  passed  un- 
named by  Hume,  Henry,  Turner,  and  lingard. 
Our  latest  expositor,  the  '  Dictionary  of 
National  Biography,'  places  it  at  Tyburn. 

The  sentence  on  the  unfortunate  ex-Lord 
Mayor,  Sir  Nicholas  Brembre,  follows  in  the 
'  Bolls  of  Parliament '  that  of  Tresilian.  The 
words  are  repeated,  save  that  the  gallows  are 
referred  to  as  **ditz  Fourches,"  i.e.,  the  above- 
said  ^'Fourchesde  Tybowmtr  Yetitissathered 
that  the  execution  was  not  carried  out  at 
Tyburn.  Knighton  has:  "Idem  Nicholaus 
apud  Tofivrtkul  decapitatus  est."  Froissart 
says  that  he  was  "  beneeded  toithout  London," 
perhaps  meaning  Tower  Hill.  Walsingham 
IS  not  careful  to  name  the  place,  but  indicates 
that  Brembre  was  hung  according  to  the 
sentence  passed  on  him.  William  of  Wor- 
cester does  not  notice  his  execution.  Grafton 
(who,  however,  wrote  after  the  lapse  of  the 
greater  part  oi  two  centuries)  says  that  Sir 
Nicholas  was  "bedded  with  his  own  axe  which 
before  he  had  devised,"  not  mentioning  place. 
Holinshed  repeats  these  words,  but  errs  in 
saying  that  the  mode  of  execution  was  in 
accordance  with  the  sentence.  Stow  asserts 
that  the  unfortunate  knight  was  "  beheaded 
with  the  same  axe  he  had  prepared  for  other." 
And  yet  again  Daniel  (1706)  repeats  the  same 
remarkable  circumstance,  for  which,  however, 
though  thus  four  times  related,  I  have  not 
found  contemporary  evidence.  Ba^in  (1732) 
says  that  the  execution  was  by  hanging  at 
Tyburn,  where  Judge  Tresilian  and  "other 
knights  and  gentlemen  "  met  the  same  fate. 
Lingard  and  others,  perhaps  perplexed  by 
the  varying  evidence,  are  discreetW  silent  as 
to  the  place  of  execution,  ^xid  uxi«2\^  N^^ 
*  Dictionary  of  Natioiial  'KvoM^.p\v^ '  wcwcXa 
Stow,  andj^quotinfe  tVve  d««A!vv  iifeXkX«as»  Vcwsx 


244 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.   [9*8.  vilmaboh30,i«l 


the   'Rolls  of   Parliament^'  concludes   that 
aeconJingly  it  waa  carried  out  at  Tyburn. 

The  reader^  if  aiifficiently  interested  on  the 
pointf  will  make  his  own  deduction*  The 
w  ri  te  r^  g  u  id  ed  by  th  e  con  tem  poraries  K  n  i  gf  h  ton 
and  Froissarfc,  and  inclined  to  Grafton's 
**  hedded  with  his  own  axe,"  though  ita  source 
be  wanting,  thinks  it  most  probaole  that  the 
past  Lord  Mayor  of  London  ("faux  chivaler 
de  Lou ud res,"  as  termed  by  his  enemies)  was 
finally  allowefl  the  dignity  of  decapitation  on 
Tower  Hill  **  without  London/*  as  recorded 
by  Knighton  and  Froiusart.  At  this  time 
(1388),  however  (if  on  a  subject  so  Rrav©  a 
trivial  pun  can  be  pardoned),  hanging  waa  in 
fulJ  swing  at  Tyburn.  For,  besides  Chief 
Justice  Tresiiian,  we  have  of  "other  knij^hts 
and  gentlemen "  such  names  as  Sir  John 
Balisbury*  8ir  James  Bern  era,  John  Lord 
Eeaucharap  (of  Holt),  John  Blake  of  the 
King's  Houseliold,  and  Thomas  ITske,  Under- 
Sheriff.  All  these,  says  Daniel,  in  part  quoting 
William  of  Worcester,  **  were  drawn  and 
hanged  [apparently  at  Tyburn]  for  the  same 
crimes/'  the  support  of  a  worthless  young 
sovereign  already  hastening  towards  ruin, 
and  in  revolt  against  restraint  which  was 
only  t^o  necessary,  however  unworthy  may 
have  beet)  those  who  exercised  it. 

W.  L,  fiUTTOK. 
{To  bt  rontintud,) 


GENEALOGICAL  RESEARCH  IN  AMERICA. 

It  will  interest  genealogical  students  to 
learn  something,  which  may  be  unknown  to 
them,  of  the  conditions  under  which  g*^nea- 
logical  researches  may  be  made  in  New  York 
and  other  states  ;  a«  a  rule  the  same  regula- 
tions are  common  to  each  of  them  During 
a  recent  visit  I  went  through  an  apprentice- 
ship which  may  be  of  value  to  others  having 
a  like  object  in  view. 

There  is  remarkable  freedom  for  searchers 
in  most  departments — in  fact,  with  deference 
to  the  wiser  heads  of  the  UA,  it  is  in  aome 
respect«  a  little  too  free.  Any  searcher, 
without  giving  his  name  and  address  (which 
are  practically  requisite  in  all  English  deposi- 
tories), can  enter  the  Record  Room^  take 
down  the  indices  and  refer  to  the  transcripts, 
without  let  or  hindrance  ;  may  take  copies  or 
notes  by  typewriter  or  pen,  and  may  do 
pretty  much  what  he  pleanes.    He  is  requented 


offices  are  often  small  and  inoonvetii^t^ 
they  are  not  overcrowded,  and  eomp&rativdy 
few  persons  seem  interested  in  the  records. 

The  Probate  Office  contains  a  considersble 
number  of    wills,  commencing   about  1661 
generally  conveniently  indexed,  all  those  m 
the  same  name  being  brought  together,  and 
the  Christian    names   given  alpha  be  ticall/i 
with  the  date  and  the  volume  and  page  lii 
which  they  are  recorded.     The  volumes  seem 
perfect,  but  probably  a  large  number  of  the 
original  document-a  are  lost.    There  are  tlis 
li^ts  of  administrations,  of  bonds,  of  letten 
tes  ta  me  n  ta  ry ,  of  gua  rd  ians  h  ips,  of  i  n  veutorte^ 
and  of  other  records.     The  roost  valoabls 
feature  in  this  department  is  the  collectioo 
of  documents  used  in  the  proof  of  each  will 
These,  unfortunately  for  their  safetv,  arenot 
copied,   but  shown  in  the  originals.    Abj 
stranger  can  ca.ll  for  the  papers  relative  to 
any  will^,  and  they  are  at  once  handed  lo  hits ; 
and  be  lakes  them  to  what  part  of  the  room 
he  pleases,  examines  them  along  with  bis  own 
papers,  and  hands  them  back  again,  if  be 
pleases  to  be  so  obliging,  to  the  oiScer  wh 
Itwks  after  them  ;  but  this  officer  takes  do 
cheek  or  receipt  for  the  bundle,  and  catiiKit 
possibly  see  whether  any  of  the  papenj  *» 
extracted,  or  indeed  whether  tlie  bundle  ii 
ever  returned.    Were  &  person  so  dispo^ 
there  is  nothing  to  prevent  him  from  mil- 
appropriating  any  or  all  of  the  documentfl^^ 
One  especially  valuable  clast^  of  p>aper»  u 
that  called   citations   to  proof  of  wills  by 
affidavits  of  executors,  &c.,  containing  the 
names  of  the  heirs  at  law  and  next  of  km  of 
the  deceased,  which  to  a  pedigree  hunter «« 
of  inPHtimable  value^      In  ray  search  I  h*^ 
the  misfortune  to  find,  in    the  very  will  I 
sought,  that  these  docunietits  were  wautiafr; 
this  was  not  considered   surnriMing  by  the 
officer,  nor    wa.s    it.   when   tne  facilitj  for 
making  away  with  the  documents  u  reraem- 
bered.      This   requisite    of    fiiniifihiiig  U>e 
names  of  the  family  must  surely  be  a  siftj 
guard  against  the  payment  of  the  trust  fon<i 
to  improper  persons,  and  it  is  a  regulabs 
whicl)  (omitting  the  facility  for  making  iiwaj 
with  the  record)  miglit  w^ll   be  followed  ^ 
England  ;  but    what  would    be   thouplit  <» 
throwing  oiien  the  wills  and  administr^tioii^ 
to  the  public,  without  charge  of  any  kiad* 
We  should   certairdy  require  additional  *^ 
commodation  for  the  public. 
Another  department  of  the  records  contiiD^ 


to  return  the  volumes  to  the  shelvej*,  but  it       .  ^.  ^.^ ^....,^,^  «„„  ,^,™,„*,^^r,-- 

is  a  request  not  properly  complied  with,  for  '  evidence  of  the  dealings  with  profjerty,  and 

much  time  is  often  lost  in  finding  the  index  '  these  are  divided  into  two  cla^^es,  of  com^ey- 

or  volume  which  a  careless  searcner  has  put   ances  and  mortgages,  under  one  or  other  rf 

back  into  the  first  convenient  opening.  \  ^VAcVv  «bT^  Included  trusts  and  eveiy  ^peaf^ 

No  fees  are  demaDded,  and,  althougVi  tYi^\oi  d«BX\T\\|,  V\\)cw  t«\  ^\ad(^    Tboie  rwocw 


9*  8.  VIL  March  30, 1901.]      NOTES  AND    QUERIES. 


245 


►e^n  about  1676,  and  are  well  indexed, 
livided  into  two  classes  of  grantors  and 
tan  tees  and  mortgagors  and  rnorbgagees.  It 
\om  not  appear  to  be  compulsory,  but  prae 
ic&Uy  every  dealing  with  property  which 
e«^uires  the  aid  of  the  law  to  protect  orasf^ist 
if  IB  here  i^ven  ;  the  lawyeria  laugh  at  the 
lea  of  any  one  omitting  re^iatration.  If  Lord 
r&lsbury  8  foolish  Repat ration  Act  had  been 
Dpied  from  this  models  it  might  now  be  of 
alue ;  but  his  scheme  is^  of  course,  based 
pon  so  many  blunders,  that  it  is  much  better 
bat  it  should  be  left  severely  alone  for  the 
resent 

There  are  societies  which,  upon  being  fur- 
iabed  with  the  details  of  the  position  of  any 
roperty,  will  for  a  small  fee  of  half  a  dollar 
apply  the  name  of  the  gratitee  and  date  of 
he  last  conveyance  in  the  locality  index. 
"he  Title  Guaraotoe  and  Trust  Company, 
f  146.  Broadway,  New  York,  undertakes  this 
pork  by  letter  or  personal  application. 

The  record  index  of  the  date  and  name 
rill  give  that  of  the  grantor,  who  may  be 
anna  in  the  character  of  grantee  with  the 
ate  and  name  of  bis  grantor,  so  that  step 
J  step  the  complete  history  of  the  title  can 
©obtained.  There  are  persons  who  make 
t  a  business  to  make  searches,  at  apparently 
loderate  fees;  a  lawyer  will  require  about 
,VB  dollars  for  a  general  search.  These  deeds 
sad^  to  other  records  which  are  equally  ac- 
aiesble,  as  bankruptcies,  actions  at  law,  <kc. 
ifaeae  latter  are  especially  valuable  in  ques- 
iotm  of  pedigree,  for  each  bundle  contains 
lie  whole  of  the  proceedings,  pleadinj^s,  affi- 
lavita^  reports,  inquisitions,  and  iindings  of 
ill  kinds,  which  in  our  cumbrous  Record 
[)ffioe,  with  its  ridiculous  checks  upon  the 
hoawity  of  its  own  officials,  would  take  a 
leirch  of  weeks  or  months  to  collect— if, 
indeed,  they  could  ever  be  found. 

But  if  in  the  department  of  wUla  and 
records  we  have  much  to  learn  from  the 
American  ofHciab,  they  have  something  to 
learti  from  us  in  the  simjole  matter  of  the 
r^tration  of  births*  marriages,  and  deaths. 
THeip  system  is  cumbrous,  expensive,  and 
Jtt^riy  inefficient  The  indices,  which  in 
England  are  open  to  any  searcher  for 
^  fee  of  !«.,  are  closed  at  any  price;  but 
*<»r  a  fee  of  2s.,  with  a  dime  (10  cents)  for 
>^ei7  additional  year,  the  Health  Depart- 
^^t  will  itself  make  a  search  for  any  one 
?*ine.  But  nothing  like  a  general  search 
*•  permitted,  nor  can  the  names  he  collected 
Jjjjth  a  view  to  selection  or  arrangement,  \ 
The  pari.sth  churches  do  not  show  their 
Jgiiters,  though  they  are  wiJliny  (fchroiigh 
w»«ir  yeatry  clerks)  to  give  certain  detaih ; 


but  these  I  found  to  be  untrue,  on  the  evi- 
dence of  the  Health  Department.  It  is  sur- 
f>riHing  that,  with  an  excess  of  freedom  and 
iberaiity  in  all  the  other  departments  of 
State,  til  is  most  important  to  the  people 
should  be  practically  closed.  Nor  do  the 
cerceteries  give  much  help  in  the  record  of 
burials.  At  the  Greenwood  Cemetery  in 
Bi'ooklyn,  for  the  fee  of  a  dollar,  the  guide^  a 
moat  intelligent  man  (who  would  doubtless 
make  searches  for  Englishmen  by  letter  for 
this  fee)j  found  a  monument  at  once.  At  other 
cemeteries  there  were  no  guides,  no  regis- 
ters, and  no  help  of  any  kind  ;  but  a  weary 
tramp  amidst  miles  of  monuments  was  the 
only  mode  of  attempting  to  find  anything, 

Pym  Yeatman. 
Dakeyne  Cottage,  Darky  Dale,  Derbyshire. 


Sandwich  MEN.—It  would  appear  that 
Charles  Dickens  was  the  first  to  apply  the 
expression  "animated  sandwich"  to  the 
perambulating  advertisements  which  are 
now  known  as  ** sandwich  men.''  In  chap,  ix, 
of  ^Sketches  by  Boz'  Mr.  Augustus,  the  nero 
of  the  dancing  academy,  is  described  as 
"walking  down  Holborn  Hill and  won- 
dering how  he  could  manage  to  get  intro- 
duceainto  genteel  fiociety,"  when  he  met 
'^  an  unstamped  advertiisement  [advertlseTnent^  In 
newapaper^  were  stamped  in  those  days]  walking 
JeisiirelF  down  HolfcK>rn  Hill,  anoomicitie  to  the 
world  that  Signor  BiOismethi.of  IheKitig'aTheatre* 
intended  opening  for  the  Season  with  a  Grand 
Ball" 

Signor  Billsmethi^s  announcement  struck  him 
as  the  very  thing  he  wanted, 
"eo,  he  afcopped  the  unstamped  advertiBemeot— 
an  animated  aandwicb,  compoaed  of  &  boy  between 
two  boards— and,  having  procured  a  ^ery  amall  card 
with  the  Sificuor's  address  indented  thereon,  walked 
straight  to  the  Signor'ji  house,"— '  Sketches  by  Bok,* 
chap.  ix.  p.  22S, 

'Sketch^  by  Boz'  appeared  at  intervals 
during  the  ye^rs  1834-5  in  the  Morning 
Cfiromde  ana  Ntf^junff  Chronidt^  which  fixes 
approximatel.y  the  date  when  the  expression 
'* animated  sandwich"  was  first  employed. 
Thackeray  made  use  of  the  term  **en  sand- 
wich," but  in  a  different  sense,  in  ^Yanity 
Fair,'  and  that  was  Subsequently  to  Dickens. 

JoH^  Hebb. 
[Sec  e*  S.  vnx.  m ;  »""  S-  vi  498.] 

"Qui  VIVE?" — This  sentiners  challenge  has 
passed  into  a  proverb,  and  is  often  used  in  this 
country  almost  as  a  substantive,  "on  the  qui 
viVe*'  being  synonymous  with  "on  the  alert" 
or  "  ready  for  action  if  nec^^^aa-T^  ?  ^^ ^\^^ 
is  its  origin  1  TYie  '^tabTxioid  \i\eM\«i3k3M:^' 
explains  it  to  mean  "^\io  \vie^\  ^>Mi  %tj» 


246 


NOTES  AND  QUERUiici.  i. 


there?"  as  if  one  of  these  expressions  was 
equivalent  to  the  other;  but  few  seem  to 
have  noticed  that,  if  so,  vive  should  be  in 
the  indicative  instead  of  the  subjunctive 
mood.  Vive  la  r^publigue  I  means  "  May  the 
republic  live  !  **  (t.c,  continue)  and  Qui  vive  f 
should  mean  not "  Who  lives  ?  ^'  but "  Who  may 
live  ?  "  The  difficulty  was  queried  in  your  con- 
temporary DlnterrMdiaire^  vol.  xl.  ool.  672, 
for  22  October,  1899,  and  an  answer  by 
J.  Lt.  (col.  896)  seems  to  explain  it.     He 


says  that  the  old  French  challenge  was 
Qui  va  Id?  but  when  many  phrases— -par- 
ticularly military  —  were  introduced  from 
Italy,  this  was  supplanted  by  Chi  vi  va  f 
^=**Who  there  goes?")  which  was  trans- 
tormed  into  French  as  Qui  vive  f 

W.  T.  Lynn. 
Blaokheath. 

Pope's  Epitaphs  in  Use.— In  West  Haddon 
Churchyard,  near  the  east  end  of  the  church, 
is  a  large  stone  bearing  the  following  inscrip- 
tion :— 

H.  J. 
Thomas 
Husband  of  Dorothy  Gulliver 
Ob*  21-'  June.  1793, 
aeedaa. 
To  this  sad  shrine  whoe'er  thou  art  draw  near, 
Here  lies  a  much  loved  Friend  a  Husband  dear ; 
Peace  to  his  gentle  Shade,  and  endless  Rest, 
Who  while  on  Earth,  was  with  ^ood  Temper  blest ; 
This  modest  Stone,  what  few  vain  Marbles  can. 
May  truly  say,  here  lies  an  honest  man. 

Also  Dorothy,  the  wife  of 

Thomas  GulUver 
Ob»  22*  November,  1796, 
aged  65. 
Here  rests  a  Woman,  good  without  pretence, 
Blest  with  plain  reason,  and  with  sober  sense, 
Henceforth  be  ev'ry  tender  Tear  supprest. 
Or  let  us  weep  for  joy  that  she  is  blest : 
From  grief  to  bliss,  from  Earth  to  Heaven  remov'd ; 
Her  memory  honoured,  as  her  life  belov'd. 

The  first  of  the  above  epitaphs  appears  to 
be  made  up  from  Pope's  epitaphs  to  the  Hon. 
Simon  Haroourt,  Mr.  Kowe,  and  Elijah 
Fenton.  Is  the  fourth  line  also  to  be  found 
in  Pope  t  With  regard  to  the  second  epitaph, 
the  first  two  lines  are  from  Pope's  epitaph  on 
Mrs.  Corbet.  The  remaining  four  lines  I 
cannot  at  present  locate,  although  they  seem 
somewhat  familiar.  The  last  two  lines  re- 
mind me  much  of  the  finish  of  Pope's  epitaph 
to  Secretary  Craggs  in  Westminster  Abbey. 

John  T.  Page. 

West  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 

["Oh.  blest  with  temper,"  appears  in  'Moral 
Essays,^  ii.  2ff7.] 

WrriTMAN'fi   "Fexametbrb."  — Those  who 
'"^^^  America  has  no  literature 


«^SS 


will  do  well  to  look   into   Prof.  Wendell's 
*  Literary  History  of  America.'    Many  things 
might  be  said  of  that  work :  for  one  thing, 
Poe  does  not  receive  justice :  and  there  are 
omissions.    In  the  notice  or  Whitman  one 
phrase  is  striking :  "  rhythm  which  sounds  as 
if  hexameters  were  trying  to  bubble  thrcMigh 
sewage."    According  to  Wendell  (and  this  is 
new  to  me.  as  it  may  be  to  some  of  your 
readers).  Whitman  was  not  guilty  of  aflecta- 
tion,  but  could  write  no  better  than  he  did : 
"  His  eccentricity  is  a  misfortune,  for  whidi 
he  is  no  more  to  blame  than  a  lame  man  for 
limping,  or  a  deaf  and  dumb  for  exproBsing 
emotion  by  inarticulate  cries."    This  omy  en- 
courage some  to  attack  Whitman.  I  believe^  if 
a  selection  of  his  poems  were  printed  as  prcM^ 
they  would  find  readers  in  plenty.    What  one 
cannot  bear  is  a  "hexameter^  with  forty- 
five  words  in  it,  or  a  verse  such  as  *'  I  am 
Madrid,  Cadiz,    Barcelona,   Oporto,   Lyoi 
Brussels,  Berne,  Frankfort^  Stuttgart^  Turin 
Florence."     But  if  one  had  any  chance 
finding  beautiful  ideas,  even  one  to  a 
such  as  that  in  the  reference  to  grass  tfs 
beautiful  uncut  hair  of  graves,"  one 
bear  with  much.  Thomas  Auld. 

[See  the  review  ante^  p.  179.] 

Quben's  Collbqb.  Oxford.— Perhaps  it  ma^^y 
be  worth  noting  that  this  college,  found^^ 
in  1340  by  Robert  de  Eglesfield,  has  alwa.^^ 
been  honoured  by  the  patronage  of  que^xu 
consort  and  not  of  queens  regnant.    Quraciiii 
Alexandra  now,  after  the  lapse  of  sixty-thv^es 
years,  occupies  the  position  of  royal  consort 
In  the  hallj  in  addition  to  the  portrait    d 
Queen  Philippa,  hang  those  of  Oueen  CWro- 
line,  consort  of  George  II.,  and  Queen  Char- 
lotte, consort  of  Qeorge  III. 

John  Pickford,  M.A 

Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

Mock  Bullfight  on  Christmas  Evk- 
Boys  in  Colombia  (South  America)  on  Chmt- 
mas  Eve  get  a  bull's  head  and  smear  the 
tips  of  the  horns  with  pitch,  which  they  aet 
fire  to,  and  then,  with  this  on  their  heids, 
personate  a  bull;  the  other  boys  act  as 
toreadoreSy  &c,<,  the  fun  being,  of  course,  not 
to  get  burnt  by  being  gored  bv  the  bull's 
fiery  horns.  I  never  saw  this  done  except 
after  dark  on  Christmas  Eve.  iBAGui 

"Quod  non  fecerunt  barbari  tecuwi 
Barberini."  —  This   episram    is   commonl: 
supposed  to  have  been  airected  against  tb 
Baroerini  family,  who  are  accused  of  makic 
use  of  the  old  materials  of  the  Flavian  ampl 
.  Iho&tre   for   the   purpose   of   building  t 
\  H\mi^\."^Q^^^«X«aT^'^\V3fcT^^  on  the  Qmri 


'&VILMABOH  30,1901.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


247 


OH  &iRQixie.  Tho  accusation  reeU  chiefly  on 
statement  by  Moroni  in  the  *  Dizionario  di 
IradisionB  Storico-Ecclesiastica,'  xv.  24,  who 
laerts  he  had  read  in  a  contemporary  diary 
y  GiacsntoGigli  that  "in  the  night  following, 
m  21  St  March,  1644,  part  of  tlie  Coliseum  was 
oiled  dowu^  that  is  to  say,  three  arcades  and 
half,  and  the  materiaJs  used  to  build  the 
ftlazzo  Barberini,"  Prof,  Gaetano  Bosai,  who 
ia  examined  the  diary  in  question,  which  is 
I  MS^  has  failed  to  discover  an  entry  of 
le  kind  under  the  date  quoted,  or  in  any 
Jier  of  Gigii's  works  to  which  he  has  had 
seeas.  He  nirther  poinU  out  that,  according 
I  an  inscriptii>n  on  an  engraving  of  the 
il&ce,  the  building  wag  completea  by  the 
sar  1630,  or  fourteen  yearn  before  the  date 
the  alleged  entry  in  Gigli^s  diary. 
Prof.  Bosai  considers  that  the  famous  pas- 
Linade  was  intended  to  apply  to  Cardinal 
a£bo  Barberini,  afterwards  Urban  YIII.. 
bo  stripped  the  bronze  from  the  portico  and 
«ne  of  the  Pantheon  in  order  to  provide 
iteriab  for  the  baldacchino  of  the  high 
tar  at  St.  Peter's  and  to  furnish  cannon  for 
e  defence  of  the  Castle  of  St,  Angelo,  He 
tributes  the  authorship  of  the  epigram  to 
flo  Castelli,  ambassador  from  the  Duke  of 
mtoa  to  the  Papal  Court.      JoBir  Rebb. 


QnttifEt 

^K  lUQJSt  r«queet  oorrospoDdeDba  deairm^  infor^ 
tion  OD  family  inAtterv  of  only  private  intereet 

i.SLX  their  DAjnea  and  addreafieR  to  their  queries, 
ord^r  that  the  anawer^  m&f  be  addressed  to  them 

"  JuGGiNB." — This  is  an  English  surname, 
lich,  I  am  informed  by  Bodley's  Librarian, 
CUTS  in  the  Worcestershire  Quarter  Sessions 
>Ui  in  1607,  Since  some  time  in  the  eighties 
e  name  has  been  in  use  in  the  sense  ^' foolish 
How,  simpleton,  one  easily  imposed  upon," 
this  taken  from  any  novel,  plajr,  or  tarce 
which  a  Mr.  Juggins  figures  in  such  a 
opacity  1  If  anv  reader  of  *  N»  iS:  0/  happens 
know,  I  sball  be  glad  if  he  will,  to  save 
oiie^send  a  note  to  me  direct  (address  Dr. 
urmy,  Oxford X  besides  replying  in  these 
Imans,  J.  A.  H.  M. 

**NoN  TERRA  BED  AQUIS."— What  family 
•ei  this  motto?  Is  it  an  English  family 
ottot  W.  R. 

Db.  Foebes  Watson.— I  should  feel  obliged 
r  any  information  about  Dr.  Forbes  Watr 
tL,  the  author  of  a  charming  book  called 
Plowers  and  Gardens.*  He  died  in  1870, 
id  the  book  was  published  ^iter  his  death,  i 


I  should  also  be  glad  to  know  something  of 
J.  B.  P..  who  wrote  a  very  graceful  preface  to 
thebouK.  H,  N,  Ellacombk 

**  Tout  LxmE— tout  CAasE— tout  passe,"— 
Can  anybody  tell  me  if  this  is  the  proper 
order,  or  whence  the  quotation  comes  1 

G,  S.  C.  S. 
[The  order  we  believe  to  be  oorreet^    The  antho* 
rity  was  vainly  Bought  ?**•  8,  x,  36913 

Stonehenoe.— We  were  told  a  few  weeks 
^o  that  the  Druids  taught  that  the  fall  of  a 
lintel  at  Stonebenge  portended  the  death  of 
a  monarch.  Where  was  this  lore  of  theirs 
recorded]  St,  SwrraiK, 

Old  Feudal  Rights,  Ac— Can  any  of  your 

readers  tell  me  the  nanie^  of  books  which 
will  give  me  information  about  curious  rights 
claimed  in  old  Engli^ih  villages  and  towns. 
survival  of  feudal  and  other  customs,  and  of 
land  tenures  and  customs  under  which  some 
properties  are  still  held  ?        Maey  Jeuwe, 

79,  Hurley  Street,  W. 

JPonsult  Blount'a  *  Tenures  of  Land  and  Cuatoma 
of  Manors,*  ed,  Hazlitt  {Heevea  &  Turner,  1874).] 

St.  CaaiSTOPHER  ahd  Laughter.  —  The 
votive  figure  of  St.  Christopher  embossed, 
now  on  view  at  the  Burlington  Fine- Arts 
Club  in  an  exhibition  of  a  collection  of 
silversmiths'  work  of  European  origin,  at 
17,  8a vile  Row,  and  described  as  No.  5  on 
p.  158  of  the  catalogue,  bears  this  inscription 
in  Latin  rimes,  dated  1493  :— 

Chriitofere  s»neta  virtu  tea  aunt  tihi  taute 
Qui  te  mane  videt  tempore  noctama  Hdet, 

Chrmtopher,  thou  hast  ae  many  virtues  for  pmoersij^ 
He  who  Bees  thee  in  the  momitig  luughs  at  night 
time. 

To  what  belief  is  allusion  made  by  this  in- 
scription? E.  B.  DoDOsoN, 

Breckekridoe.— I  am  desirous  of  tracing 
the  line  of  descent  of  my  emigrant  ancestor 
Alexander  B  reck  en  ridge  back  to  the  stock 
from  which  he  sprang,  presumably  Scotch- 
He  "imported  himself  and  his  family  at  his 
own  charges  from  the  north  of  Ireland  to 
Philadelphia"  in  1728,  "and  thence  to  the 
colony  ot  Virginia,"  and  founded  the  South- 
ern family  of  the  name.  Ti-adition  with^  us 
outlines  an  original  residence  in  Ayrshire^ 
whence  the  forefathers  of  our  particular 
line  were  driven  by  persecution,  in  Cove- 
nanter times,  to  the  Breadalbane  district  of 
Perthshire,  later  to  the  island  of  Arran^  and 
thence  to  Ireland.  Ca.w  aw^  of^^  ^^i^^^^v 
iources  of  iof  ormaiioi^v  ot  Y^t€l^Ti'^^^5^^'^^^'e^  <A 


248 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [»*  s.  vii.  march  30  iwi. 


parish  or  otlier  local  records  bearing  on  this  ' 
subject  1   Has  any  one  private  family  records 
or  papers  throwing  lighten  our  early  history, 
ann  asdstiiig  to  identify  the  original  clan  or 
family  name  1      James  M.  Breckeneiiwie. 
Twelfth  and  Spruce  StreeU,  St.  Lc*uig,  iJo. 

G^EKN  Of  Wyken— A  question  was  asked 
in  *  N.  &  Q/  a  few  years  ago  as  to  the  family 
of  Green  of  Wyken,  near  Coventry,  but  1 
cannot  find  the  reference.  Can  the  querist 
or  any  other  reader  give  me  the  dates  of 
death  of  the  following,  who  were  appointed 
trustees  of  Rugby  Scho4>l  in  the  years  given  i 
Henry  Gretm,  16S7 ;  Henry  Green,  1696; 
and  Henry  Green,  17371      A.  T.  Michell, 

E«gby, 

[For  Green  pedigree  consult  8^  S.  x*  270,  371, 
570^  &c.] 

*  Child's  Owjf  Book.'  — Can  any  of  your 
readers  tell  me  who  originally  compiled  and 
who  first  published  *  The  Child'^  Own  Book,' 
which  was  ianued  about  the  tniddle  of  the 
last  century?  The  only  *  entries  in  the 
Britissh  Museum  Catalogue  that  I  can  find 
here  are  "Tlw  Child's  Own  liogk,  illustrated, 
ninth  edition,  reviged  and  corrected,  with 
original  taley  translated  from  the  German. 
London,  1861," and  an  entry  of  the  thirteenth 
edition,  edited  by  William  TegtR,  1869,  8vo, 
The  book  is  an  excellent  collection  of  all  the 
old  favourite  nursery  tale**.  Thf?  copy  that  I 
have  here  (the  book  was  reprinted  in  Boston 
almost  immediateiy  on  its  firj!it  apf)^«rance) 
is  a  squat,  square  Svo  volume  of  about  600 
pagea.  Chas,  Welsh. 

uOt  Boyhtoo  Htreet,  Bo«toiL  U>8. 

BiacTTiaE  OP  Man  as  Woman.— The  latest 
life  of  the  Chevalier  D'Eon  seem^  to  prove 
conclusively  that  he  was  a  man  disguised  as 
a  woman.  Arc  there  any  other  well-known 
in^^tances  of  men  who  have  panned  as  women, 
and  where  is  an  account  of  them  to  be  found? 
Many  cases  are  known  of  women  dressing  as 
men,  but  the  revei-se,  as  in  the  case  of  D'Eon, 
seems  comparatively  rare.  R.  S. 

AUTHOK  OF  Quotation  Wanted.— Who  is 
the  author  of  the  following  ?  I  came  across 
it  the  other  day,  and  have  been  unable  to 
trace  its  origin.  Whether  it  is  from  poem 
or  ballad  I  cannot  say  :— 

When  the  wine  is  gocKl  ^nd  the  purso  is  full, 
To  the  devil  with  oAre  and  the  hiitigman. 

James  Lanobouenb. 

CfioWNED  Heads,— It  is  to  be  hoped  that 

when  the  head  of  King  Edward  VIl/ appears 

upon  oar  coins  &nd  stamps,  the  example  will 

be  followed  whiQb  was  aet  at  the  l&te  Queen! ^ 


Jubilee,  viz,,  of  representing  the  sovereign 
wearing  a  crown.  It  is  proper  in  itself,  and 
is  capable  of  adding  much  dignity  and  beauty 
to  the  design. 

When  was  the  crown  first  omitted  from 
the  bulk  of  our  coins,  and  what  waa  the 
rea-^on  of  the  omission  t  W,  C.  B, 

Comic  DiALOGUE-BEHMON^—Some  vears  ago. 
at  Rome,  in  a  church  the  name  of  which  I 
cannot  now  recall,  though  1  rather  think  it 
was  that  of  St  Ignatius,  1  witnessed  a  function 
of  the  following  description. 

Instead  of  a  pulpit,  a  sort  of  temporary 
platform  or  stage  nad  been  erected  in  the 
church,  in  full  view  of  the  congregation.    On 
that  platform  two  men  took  their  station,  and 
seated  themselves  face  to  face  in  comfortable  ^ 
easy-chairs.     One  of  these  men  was  attii^ — 
as  a  priest,  the  other  was  dressed  as  a  lay — 
man,  out  both  of  them  were  understood  to  b^ 
really  ecclesiastics  of  the  Order  of  Jesus,  Th^ 
one  who  personated  a  lay  man  was  made  up  ten 
represent  a  dissipated  old  dog  with  a  joll^ 
red  nose  and  every  badge  of  depravity.    H^ 
assumed  the  rdle  of  an  unbeliever  in  Chrii*^ 
tianity .  and,  add ressing  himself  to  the  avo w^m 
prieat^  lie  assailed  theleading  dogmaa  of  th^* 
faith  with   unflinching  audacity  and   muc^ 
broad  humour  ;  so  much  so  that  bis  comic^^ 
though  irreverent  sallies  repeatedly  pro vok^^a 
loud  laughter  on  the  part  or  the  congregati^cD 
—a  hilarity  which  was  not  discouraged      ^ 
repressed.    But,  as  had  been  pre-arranged    ^j 
authority,  all  his  sallies  proved  futile,  t^^-mic 
glanced  off  the  intellectual  panoply  of  *>]ie 
priest  like   water  off  a  duck's  hack,  u«!^ti/ 
eventually  his  reverence  was  triumphant     mU 
along  the  line,  and  the  scoffer,  throwing  ^  up 
his  bands,  became  a  convert  to  Christianity. 
It  was  understood  that  this   merry  concTeit 
was  one  of  the   methods  employed  by    the 
astute  Church  of  Rome  for  the  better  est«5- 
jishment  of  the  faith  and  the  confusion  md 
conversion  of  unbelievers. 

Can  you  or  any  of  your  readers  give  ma 
information  on  this  subject,  more  especially 
on  the  following  points  t  la  or  was  such  fr 
function  practised  in  the  Church  of  Rome  ; 
and  what  was  or  is  it  culled,  if  it  has  or  htdl 
any  special  name  1  When  and  how  difi  it 
originate  ?  Was  or  is  it  confined  to  any  parti- 
cular church  in  Rome  and  to  any  p&rticQlar 
date:  and.  if  so,  to  what  church  and  what 
date?  In  a  word,  any  information  on  tlie 
subject  will  be  thankfully  received » 

Fateick  Majcwell. 

Bath, 

FiELDiNo  AND  Brillat^Savaein,— Acuriout 

\\^\>xiidet  kA  l^tUlat-Savarin  in  the  'FhysiologiA 


'  8.  viL  mabch  30, 1901.]   NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


249 


dtt  Gofit  *  la  still  further  Harkoned  by  his  Eng- 
Jwh  trannktof,  and  &  rather  interesting  ques- 
tion h  left  unsdved.  In  \m  chapter  *  On  the 
Love  of  0<jod  Living'  he  ha»  this  parage  :— 

"  The  mode  of  conducting  their  [nmmed  c^upk*'] 
mmU  has  a  mat  eh&re  io  the  happuiea*  of  their 
uvm.  ThtsJ  obftervation,  though  new  in  FraTJce^  iias 
uoi  escaped  the obeervatioD  of  Fielding,  the  Eogliah 
jnjr»Ji8i.  He  hat  warked  out  the  idei^  tii  liia  novel 
Paroeia/  by  painting  the  diflerent  manner  in  which 
two  ma^rried  coupltia  tinjsh  their  riay.  The  iirat 
hn*l^nd  id  a  lord,  an  eldest  son,  and  therefore  heir 
to  all  the  family  ppoperty ;  tb^seeoad  ii  his  youtiffer 
protber,  the  h unhand  of  Famehh  who  has  been  dia- 
iiihenied  ou  account  of  liia  marria^,  and  lives  on 
oyf-pay  in  a  atate  but  littla  removed  from  abject 
m-erty,"  &c 

^  Mr.  Andemon  corrects  "Fielding"  to 
'  Richardson,"  and  in  m  doing  malkea  it 
vident  that  he  has  not  read  *  Pamela.'  There 
!  not  a  word  of  the  aort  in  the  novels  and 
be  situation  i.i  atterly  incompatible  with  it. 
ameia's  h  113 band  in  not  a  younger  son,  and 
le  very  point  of  the  novel  would  be  lo^t  if 
9  was,  for  it  rest^  on  her  refusal  to  be  the 
istret^  of  a  man  who  can  and  dims  offer  her 
\e  iDotit  >fplendid  position  a^  such,  no  lem 
lan  1,200/.  a  J  ear  and  an  establbhrnent  pro- 
>rtionate.  He  i«,  in  fact,  an  only  son ;  and  && 
a  mother  U  dead,  he  is  the  sole  heir  and 
irner  of  an  estate  no  large  that  Che  Govern- 
ent  m  anxious  to  have  him  became  a  peer, 
id  ofiTers  to  make  him  one,  but  he  prefers  to 
tmaan  a  conn  try  gentleman.  Lantly,  he  has 
sver  been  in  the  service,  and  sio  has  no  pay 
I  all,  half  or  other. 

NoWj  what  novel  did  Brillat'Savarin  have 
1  tnino  t  It  can  hardly  be  liupposed  that  he 
evented  this  mass  of  details  out  of  his  own 
i«ad,  ftnd  he  probably  mixed  up  the  remem- 
iTSDce  of  one  novel  with  the  name  of  another, 
>iit  I  cannot  identify  it,  F.  M, 

MoRSAY,  OE-  Count  Maebat.  — In  John 
Weftley's  'Journals'  (10  Julv,  1776,  and 
4  July,  1778)  mention  is  madeof  Moraay  bm  "a 
thorough  enthusiast.*-  Who  was  he  I  What 
^ki,  if  any,  did  he  publish  T  Is  the  name 
properly  spelt  ^  or  should  it  be  Marsala^  or  Da 
i^iWis?  Fkai*ci3  M.  Jagksow. 

Bow  dan. 

'*CdLi*«ABA."— The  following  appears  in  a 
^1  newspaper.  la  anything  kaowo  of  the 
*s*tom  elsewhere  t 

A  qaaint  ens  torn  la  observed  at  the  Lizard  every 
Bhroire  Tue^ny.  From  dawn  until  noon  all  the 
^  iad  girls  in  the  parish,  with  bar-^keta,  ba^i  and 
J^  (^na^  go  around  from  door  to  dotjf  afiking  for 
^Ipeaim.'  Thi«  ai^iBee  that  every  houeeholder 
f^  put  something  mto  thi^  bag  or  basket,  and  it 
*  tiiiefefl|ij5g  to  eee  the  contents  of  one  of  the»e  | 


oranges,  figs,  potatoes,  turnips,  oabba^s,  herrings, 
e^^  butter^  and  cream  are  included  in  tht)  store. 
The  origin  of  the  auatom— which  does  not  obtain  in 
the  neigh  bo  u  ring  parishes— is  unknown-  It  wai 
iu  eisistence  when  the  old^at  inhabitants  wer« 
children.'' 

R,  Baeclay-Allarbicb* 
Lostwithiel,  Cornwall. 

FiEST  Earl  of  Hysidfoeij'b  Dauohtebb.— 
A  correnpiindent  writes    in    the   Bafiff§Mre 

Journal  of  19  February  as  follows  :— 

'*  I  find  in  an  old  book  the  following  note :  *  Jobtii 
second  Ltird  Carniiehael,  succeeded  hia  grandfather 
in  1672.  He  nmrried  Beatrice  Urummond^  and  had 
issue  sei'en  sous  and  four  daughters.  He  waa 
created  Karl  of  Hyudford  in  1701,  and  died  in  1710. 
One  of  hla  daughters,  Alice,  married  on©  of  her 
father's  tenaotSj  named  Biaeet  or  Biaet,  which  gave 
offence  to  the  faoiilv^  who  contrived  to  have  her 
name  omitted  from  the  peerages  after  the  marriaga, 
though  she  had  been  mentioned  before  it/  *' 

In  both  Crawfurd*8  and  Douglas's  'Peerage,' 
and  in  the  *  Diet,  of  Nat.  Biog.  —  the  available 
works  which  I  have  consulted ^ — only  three 
daughters  are  spoken  of.  Ladies  BeatriK, 
Mary,  and  Ann.  I  should  like  to  know  if 
there  ia  any  truth  in  the  above  statement  as 
to  there  being  a  fourth  daughter,  named 
Alic^.  JOBH  CHRlSTrS. 

A  KtrfisERY  HiMB.  —  Has  this  nursery 
rime,  which  my  mother  used  to  repeat  to 
me  when  1  was  a  baby,  but  which  I  have  not 
heard  or  seen  since,  ever  got  into  print  f 
It  must  be  an  inheritance  from  South  Englandi 
whence  her  line  sprang,  and  whence  she 
draw  many  curious  survivals.  Its  dropping 
out  of  use  and  print  is  due,  of  course,  to  the 
modern  delicacy  about  alluding  to  such 
subjects  at  all  with  little  children ;  hot  in 
country  parts  of  New  England,  even  fifty 
years  a^o,  there  was  not  quite  such  prudish- 
ness  of  idea  :^ 

Jack  and  Gye 
Went  out  in  the  rye, 
And  they  found  a  littk  boy  with  one  black  eve. 
"Come,    Btiys  Jack,  "let's  knock  him  in  the  naad,** 
"No."  aays  Gye,  ^*  let 's  buy  him  some  bread  j 
You  buy  one  loaf  and  1 11  buy  two, 
And  we'll  bring  him  up  as  otner  folks  do," 

Hartford,  Gonn. 

John  Jones  thb  Reqicide-— Where  can 
particulars  of  his  life  be  found  1  He  was  born 
at  Maes-y-Oarnedd,  a  farmhouse  in  the  parish 
of  Llanoedr,  Merionethshire ;  was  sent  to 
Liondon ;  became  servant  to  Sir  Thomas  Mid- 
dleton,Lord  Mayor ;  Joined  CromwelFs  army: 
married  a  sister  of  Cromwell,  Jane^  widow  of 
Roger  Whits  ton.  He  signed  CharW'%  d*ft»A.bi 
warrant,  appeavn  to  \\&v^  \3*Bc^iiiej  "^i^^y^^; 
OeE&ral,  and  in  \^1  Qtciv^iYBat  «al  ^feawsaa^ 


260 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,   m  s.  vii.  march  ao,  1901. 


Ckstle,  At  the  Eestomtion  he  sought  rfsfuge 
near  Maea-y-Garnedd,  in  Uwcblaw'r-Coed,  a 
farmhouse  in  the  pariah  of  Llanenddwyn. 
His  mock  funeral  took  place  at  the  church 
close  to  DyfFryn  Station,  about  five  milea 
north  of  Barraoufch,  On  17  October,  1660,  he 
was  hanged  at  Charing  Cross.        H.  G.  H» 

[There  is  a  biography  of  Jonea  in  the  *D.N.B.' 
(vol  X  SIX.  p.  125).  It  states  I  hat  at  the  Restoration 
be  nrnde  no  attemi>t  to  fly,  but  '*  waa  arrested  on 
2  June,  1660,  aa  he  waa  quietly  walking  in  Fina- 
buiry*"]  ^ 

THACKERAY. 

(9^  S.  vii.  188.) 
The  legend  that  the  original  portrait  of 
the  Marquis  of  Steyne  was  withdrawn  because 
Lord  Ijan^downe  was  offended  at  the  likeness 
which  it  Iwre  to  him  (which  it  undoubtedly 
did)  haii  already  appeared  in  *K.  ife  Q.'  It 
occurred  to  me  to  refer  the  matter  to  pro- 
bably tho  one  person  now  alive  who  could 
speak  authoritatively  on  the  subject,  viz,, 
my  aunt.  Lady  Louisa  Howard,  Lord  Lans- 
d owners  only  daughter.  Her  answer  is  so 
interesting  that  I  think  it  deserves  to  he 
recorded  in  full  in  the  pages  of  *  N.  &  Q.* :— 

Hud  by,  Newbury.  M*reh  15.  1901. 

Dkar  8UBRB0RH1,— I  ATO  aorry  I  did  not  answer 
four  letter  at  once  about  my  father,  aa  no  one  who 
kne^  my  father  could  have  believed  it  for  a  motiiGut, 
but  I  waited  to  aee  if  I  could  reoolletit  anything 
that  might  have  led  to  such  an  absurd  idea.  I 
never  myself  met  Thackeray  at  Lansdowne  House, 
or  heard  of  hsin  there,  but  a  friend  of  mine  tells  me 
flhe  did  so  several  timea  in  his  ial^r  years,  and  J  feel 
aure  the  acquaintauce  beean  lone  after  'Vanity 
Fair '  waa  pubLi«hed.  My  brother  lent  us  the  early 
numbers  to  read  aa  they  came  out,  but  1  did  not 
finieb  it  till  the  edition  of  1S49— whteh  I  imagine 
was  the  first^but  1  never  hesard  a  word  of  any 
tUpfHiaed  Ukeneaa  to  my  father  in  any  of  the  illns- 
trations.  11  an v  such  waa  pointed  out  to  him,  he 
would  have  only  laughed  and  taken  no  further 
notice,  and  I  am  sure  nev^er  imagined  that  the 
character  of  Lord  St«yne,  if  he  had  read  it,  could  be 
pointed  at  him.  I  remember  hearine  at  the  time 
that  Lord  Hertford  was  supposed  to  be  suggested  : 
certainly  no  part  of  it  suits  my  father,  ejtcept 
perhaps  a  t-ai^te  for  pictures  and  the  title. 

1  wonder  who  started  the  idea  in  Nott»  and 
Qmrie'*t  and  what  it  was  founded  on.  1  have  been 
looking  at  the  illustrations  in  my  copy  of  '  Vanity 
Fair,*  m  hories  of  seeing  a  Hken€*9  of  my  father, 
which  would  be  curJous,  as  in  the  caricatures  of  the 
day  he  was  never  a  real  likeneta,  only  a  conven- 
tional sort  of  face. 

I  hope  some  one  will  take  up  and  anawer  in  Notes 

and   Qti^rUftt  but  the  lapse  of  time  reduces  the 

number  of  hia  friends  and  contemporaries  — over 

forty  yeara— Binc!€  his  death,  and  I  am  older  than 

Ae  was. 

Vour  affeclioiratc  autvt, 

L  How^iiiv 


Thus  it  remains  a  mystery  why  Thackeray 

really  did  withdraw  the  first  woodcut  of  the 
Marquis  of  Steyne.  Perhaps  there  may  be 
some  one  still  alive  who,  on  seeing  this  letter, 
may  be  able  to  give  the  real  reason. 

Shxbbobki. 


BiSHoPEic  OF  MoNs  Ma  RAN  US  (9**1  S.  viL 
208),- This  place  h  described  as'*Ville  dee 
Hirpins,  auj.  Monte  AWararw.  dans  le  Napoli- 
tain  (Princip.  OltraX"  in  the  '  Dictionnaire 
de  Gi^ggrapnie,'  jpar  un  Bibliophile  (Paris, 
Firmin  Didot  F  re  res,  1870)— a  good  book  to 
consult  before  writing  to  *  N.  &  Q,' 

Montemarano  is  a  small  city  of  the  pro- 
vince of  Naples,   in    the  Principato    Ultra^ 
marked  on  the  map  about  twelve  miles  east — 

ward  of  AveUiuo,  It  was  made  by  Gregory  VII 

a  bishopric  under  the  Metropolitan  of  Bene 

vento*  F.  Adaiib. 

[Other  replies  are  acknowledged,] 

Daist  Nabies  (B^  B.  vii,  8,  53),'-'Sm  Bewb^  ■ 
BiBT    MAXwmLL*8   interesting    reply  hardl  ; 

touches  local  derivation.  Crai^  m&^  well 
a  corruption  of  Chrmh  ef/e^  aod  it  woulL  ^ 
not  be  inappropriate  to  the  daisy  i  bk,:DBt 
how  about  the  following  BeU  f  If  any  road^^Br 
from  the  counties  mentioned  knows  tKne 
derivation  of  the  names  (for  osf-eye  dais!-^^! 
Crazp  EeU  ( Wil  t^h  i  re),  cat^n-  aroe$  i  Lan  cash  i  r^^^^i 
and  Dutch  Morgan  (Isle  of  Wight),  and  i%.5»nll 
communicate  it,  I  shall  be  grateful, 

Megajt  ^ 

Confidential    Dispatches    in    Time        or 
War  (9^  S,  vii,  S08).— Durinj^  the  retreat      on 
Torres  Vedras  in   1810  W^^i^^'^gto'^  wrot^   to 
Lord  Liverpool,  complaining  of  the  infor^wiDa- 
tion  given  to  the  enemy  through  the  pea.  M- 
cation  in  the  newapapers  of  his  dispatch  fiea 
Lord  Liverpool  replied,  agreeing  with  JL^otd 
Wellington  about  the  disadvantage  of  y>\ih- 
lishing  everything,  and   requesting  hiczi  to 
preimre  duplicate  dispatches,  one  »et  for  the 
Cabinet  only,  the  other  for  publication* 

Heebbrt  Maxwelz. 

"  AkcE  MAKIOLE  "  IN  A  CHARTER  (9**  S.  VjL 

47,  95).— Mr.  Ln^ESET's  query  is  not  lively 
to  elicit  a  reply.    If  he  cannot  evolve  thB 
meaning  of  anct  nmrioh  with   the  contex^'** 
before  him,  is  it  reasonable  to  expect  l\\m^ 
others  will  be  able  to  guess  it  without  mc  t^ 
help ^    Ijet  us  have  the  context 

F.  Abami. 

•  Four- Aim- Five '*  (9^*^  S.  vii.  149X— Thi^ 
mystic  Orientalism  was  invented  m  Mr^^ 
Le  Gallienn©  to  rime  with  the  word  alive.^^1 
^  1\»  wsi^  %Mi^%m\^  \si  U\m  by  quatraiu  Now  11^^ 


ii.mabch3o.i9oi.)    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


261 


field's  text,  where  the  phrase  **  panj 

I  char  arkan  "  is  properly  translatea 

ises  and  four  elements,''  "  elements  " 

in  this  place,  not  earth,  air,  <&c., 

entials,  component  parts,  or  supports 

The  quatrain  is  merely  a  typical 

play  on  the  numerals,  admirably 

I  by  Whinfield  :— 

re,  and  nine  spheres,  eiffht  heavens  made 

)t8  seven  of  six  sides,  as  we  see 
ises.  and/oixr  elements,  three  souls 
is,  but  only  (me,  0  man,  like  thee. 

strain  is  No.  160  in  the  Lucknow. 

in    the    Bombav  lithographs    ana 

in  the  Villon  (Payne)  translation. 

ect  rendering  of  drkdn  throws  Mr. 

)nne's  invention  into  beautiful  relief. 

Y  Persian  locution  of  the  kind    is 

ght-and-Four,"  which    is   recurrent 

.n  poetry  and   refers  to  the  twelve 

I  Muhammad.    Schwamm  (Triiber. 

Edwakd  Heron-Allsn. 

JiET  of  Bavaria  (9"»  S.  vi.  369,  453, 
thank  the  correspondents  who  have 
3n  above.  I  still  hope  that  her  date 
may  be  run  to  earth,  and  shall  be 
if  any  reader  finding  it  will  pass  on 
mation  to  me.  Meoan 

JiET  OP  Bourbon  (9">  S.  vi.  289.  397, 
55  [Bavaria,  in  errorl  111).— -I  thank 
correspondents  who  have  helped  me. 
of  birth  of  above  seems  unattain- 
it  possible  that  it  is  actually  an 
I  am  anxious  to  discover  it. 

Meoan. 

ON  THE  Skin  (9^  S.  vii.  27,  113) 
tten  by  the  late  Sir  Alfred  Power, 
C.B.,  Vice-President  of  the  Local 
ent  Board  of  Ireland.  They  appear 
tary  Rhymes,'  8vo,  London,  1871. 
ks  born  at  Market  Bos  worth,  1805. 
J.  S.  C. 

AS  A  hatter"  (9"»  S.  vi.  448).— 
has  "  to  hatter,"  to  be  confused,  &c., 
violent ;  as  of  a  turbulent  crowd  ; 
&o,  glossed  as  "  fury,  rage."  "  Mad," 
ense,  does  not  mean  insane.  For 
Pepys,  in  his  'Diary,'  describes 
ident  as  making  him  **mad."  As 
o  hat  makers,  it  is  supposed  to 
a  personal  extravagance,  owing  to 
rabundant  prosperitv  of  journey- 
ters,  from  the  high  prices  then 
>r  beaver  hats  or  castors. 

A.  Hall. 

irase    was    evidently  well    known 
about  the  time  that  an  original 


farce  with  this  title  by  Francis  A.  Marshall 
was  published  in  one  act  in  1863. 

J.  HOLDEN  MacMicHABL. 

Verses  on  the  Irish  Famine  (9*^  S.  vii. 
148).— In  the  second  stanza  "Mr.  Commis- 
sioner" replies  somewhat  in  this  way  : — 
Dig  up  your  tuben,  put  them  iu  a  dry  plaoe, 
Plenty  of  straw  put  underneath  each  layer, 
Grind  them  to  pulp,  or  if  you  think  it  better, 

Toast  on  a  griddle. 
Pat  is  overwhelmed  by  this  advice,  and  says 
(according  to  memory) : — 
Murdher  an'  ouns.     Where's  the  straw  to  oome 

from, 
Mill  for  to  grind,  or  griddle  to  roast  them  on? 

The  lines  may  have  appeared  in  PwiuJi, 

W.  H.  Patterson. 
Belfast. 

"Cradle  Commissions"  (9">  S.  vii.  169).— 

In  the  **  Life  of  Charles  Blacker  Vi^noles 

Soldier  and  Civil  Engineer by  his  Son 

London 1889,"  pp.  5-8,  one  reads   of  a 

transaction  in  the  army  similar  to  the  subject 
of  this  inquiry.  Vignoles,  an  infant  born  on 
31  May,  1793,  received  his  commission  dated 
25  October,  1794.  qualified  by  the  (manifestly 
reasonable)8tipulation  "  that  ne  shall  exchange 
to  half-pay  immediately,  as  he  is  too  young 
to  serve!"  Charles  Hioham. 

[See  'Child  Commissions,'  8^  S.  viiL  421,  496; 
ix.  70, 198,  355,  450.] 

D'Auverone  Family  (9"»  S.  vii.  68,  117, 
176. 191).— I  am  indebted  to  D.  for  his  note. 
I  snould  mention,  however,  that  my  com- 
munication was  sent  to  *  N.  &  Q.'  before  the 
Editor's  notice  of  the  Marquis  de  Monclar's 
statement  appeared,  and  must  not  therefore 
be  regarded  as  traversing  what  the  Marauis 
has  said.  D.'s  note  may  not  be  of  the  Jess 
value  because  it  is  negative,  but  it  does  not 
help  towards  a  solution  of  how  this  Philip 
D'Auvergne,  a  British  vice-admiral,  came  by 
the  title  of  Duke  or  Prince  of  Bouillon,  for 
that  he  was  so  styled  is  an  historical  fact. 
In  the  British  *  Navy  Lists '  of  the  period 
I  find,  for  instance,  the  following :— Year 
1804 :  Captains  of  Royal  Navy,  P.  D'Auvergne, 
Prince  of  Bouillon,  appointed  1784.  Ships  in 
Commission,  The  Severn,  44  Guns,  Philip. 
Prince  of  Bouillon.  Year  1808 :  Vice-Admiral 
of  the  Blue,  Prince  of  Bouillon.  Year  1815  : 
Vice-Admiral  of  the  Red,  Prince  of  Bouillon. 
These  are  official  and  continuous  recognitions 
of  the  title  which  a  plain  man  would  like  to 
understand.  Further,  in  the  list  of  sub- 
scribers to  Berry's  *  History  of  Guernsey,' 
London,  1815,  there  app^ax^  N\^-k^\si\\^ 
the  Prince  oi  BouVWoii.    '^q^>  ^>ft»J^  '^^  "^^^ 


252 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [9*  8.  vn.  march  30.  iwl 


explanation  of  the  connexion  of  that  title 
with  thi/i  Philip  TyAiivergne  of  Jersey  1  That 
in  the  point,  for  I  f\o  not  know  that  any 
one,  even  the  admiral  himwelfj  rpgarded  thin 
Philip  &H  by  actual  descent  holding  the 
original  title  of  Duk**  or  Pnncfi  of  Bouillon. 
J  called  hiiD  ''  titular"  partly  on  that  ground, 
and  partly  because  he  may  have  had  the 
name  without  the  revenues-  although  t  have 
reatl  that  after  the  restoration  of  Louis  XVIII. 
he  waii  a^ain  put  in  poa>!e9?*iun  of  the  duchy, 
of  which  he  had  been  de-apoiled  by  Napoleon, 
but  waa  finally  deprived  of  it  by  the  Congress 
of  VioDna. 

May  I  sa^^  that  I  did  not  uae  the  expression 
''peer  of  trance"  in  a  technical  aeunel  At 
the  mme  time,  when  D  says  that  the  term  ia 
only  uaed  there  of  tho^e  who  were  members 
of  the  Upper  House  from  IS30  to  1848,  he 
must  have  forgotten  not  ordy  the  famous  body 
of  the  twelve  Peers  of  France— believed  to 
have  been  instituted  an  far  back  as  the  age 
of  Philip  Augustus,  at  whose  coronation, 
in  1179,  Heory  of  England,  Duke  of  the 
Normana,  as  one  of  them,  was  present — but 
also  the  moi-e  modern  Chamber  of  Peers 
whicii  dated  from  the  chart^sr  of  Louin  XVI IL 
io  1814,  and  out  of  which  the  peera  of  the 
Monarchy  of  July  took  their  rise.  There 
were  certainly  many  heroes  before  Agaraem- 
Don,  J,  L,  Abdeeson, 

Edinburgh, 

WoOEE,  IN  Salop  (9^  S,  v,  128,  236;  vi 
33»  167,  216,  312  J  vii.  134). -- At  the  last 
reference  the  A,-S.  wor,  which  we  know  only 
in  the  compound  wdr-hana^  the  gloss  of 
pkcmanm,  is  ri|?htly  discredited,  if  Prof. 
Kluge's  contention  is  sound.  The  latter 
says,  S.V.  *Auerhabn;  that  the  0.  H,  Gor. 
or-ori-^'huon  corranpondB  to  the  O,  Norse  and 
Swedish  orre^  he^th  cock  (uncompoundml). 
This  word  he  connects  with  Sannk*  vrgany 
ardeo  t,  masculiDet  and  with  Latin  verre^. 
explaining  that  Auon  may  have  been  addea 
to  denote  the  hen  (Ger  IIuh%  neut,)»  More 
probably  it  was  a  tautological  expression, 
like  our  **  sledge-hammer/'  H.  P.  L. 

Bince  Woore  ia  Wairre  in  Domesday,  it  may 
be  worth  while  to  note  that  Wavre  in  Can- 
ton Neufch&tel  appeais  anciently  as  Wnura^ 
which  ia  the  Low  Latin  ittaureia  or  Wfiurmctim^ 
un tilled  or  fallow  land.  This  lends  support 
to  Mr,  Sweet's  suggestion  mentioned  at  the 
last  reference.  Isaac  Taylor. 

**  Wise  "  {9^  a  vii.  45,  172).- 1  do  not  think 

the  condemnation  passed  upon  me  at  the  last 

ji^mrwe  is  justified-     It  is  there  stated  that 

inj^  ^*opiDioBB  oitea  carry  the  taint  oi  over- 


has  te  and  ill-consideration,  and  consequently 
result  in  more  or  less  decided  withdrawal." 
1  beg  leave  to  ask  for  at  least  «om«  of  the 
evidence  upon  which  this  sweeping  charge  is 
based.  As  far  as  I  am  aware,  after  having 
done  much  pioneering  work  with  regard  to 
difficult  words  for  some  thirty  years,  the 
number  of  ray  mistakes  is  by  no  means 
large ;  whereas,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
number  of  my  successes  is  con8i<lei'able,  or 
my  advice  would  not  bo  so  very  frequently 
asked  for  and  taken.  Let  us  have  some 
evidence  of  my  shortcomings. 

Walter  W.  Skbat. 

Brawling  (9"»   S.    vii.    227).— Dissenting 
places   of    worship   are    protected    against 
brawling  in  the  same  way  as  churches,  for 
by  23  Vict.  cap.  32,  sec.  2,  persons  guilty  oE 
riotous,   violent,   or  indecent    behaviour   ii^^ 
i^hurches   and    chapels   of    the    Church    o^E 
England  or  Ireland,   or   in    anjr   chapel  o^K 
any  religious  denomination,  or  in  Englanc:^3 
in  any  place  of  religious  worship  duly  certifieciz5l 
under  the  provisions  of  18  <fe  19  Vict.  cap.Sk^  , 
or  in  churchyards  or  burial-grounds,  on  cor— -^- 
viction  before  two  justices  are  made  liable  te,    ^o 
a  penalty  of  not  more  than  five  pounds,  c>    j)r 
imprisonment  for  any  term  not  exceedii^mg 
two  months.    Section  3  of  the  same  Act  ocBL—ts 
forth  the  mode  of  dealing  with  the  oflfendecr — 


Early  Steam  Navigation  (9"»  S.  vL 
458 ;   vii.  16,  133).— Mr.  George  Marsc 
has  stated  "that  the  Liverpool  Royal  WillL 
and  the  Bristol  Great  Western  were  proba^^^ly 
the  first  real  passenger  steamers  to  cross       the 
Atlantic,"  ana  that  "in  no  sense  could      aahe 
[the  Sirius]  be  called  a  real  pcMsenger  steams  ^r." 
Now  "  passenger  steamer    was  an  expres^^ioo 
I  never  used  ;  but  to  be  satisfied  on  that  i>-^3int 
I  have  inspected,  in  the  office  of  the  Regist::^  Mnr- 
General  of  Shipping  and  Seamen,  the  cisrew 
list  of  the  Sirius  on  her  voyage  from  CoK-lt  to 
New  York  in  April,  1838.   I  find  the  stew«i.rcf'« 
department  consisted  of  three  stewards^  one 
assistant,  two  cooks,  and  a  boy.   Would  seveo 
hands  have  been  required    in  an  ordin«7 
«3argo  boat  of  412  tons  burden  if  there    wen 
no  passengers  ?    I  think  not. 

Now  as  to  "justice  to  Ireland."  The  Sirim, 
it  is  true,  was  built  in  Scotland  for  the  St 
George  Steam  Packet  Company  of  JhbHa 
and  Cork,  for  many  years  past  called  the 
"  Cork  Steam  Shipping  Company."  She  pro- 
ceeded to  Dublin  under  a  builder  s  certifioite, 
where  she  was  registered  under  No.  33  in 
1837.  She  was  subsequently  transferred  to 
Cork,  from  which  port  she  traded.  Being 
Wonsvd^t^  W^  %msll  for  the  Atlantic  Mh 


[LMABCH30.18010  NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


253 


eDQ ployed  carrying  cargo  and  pas- 
Btween  Coi'fc,  ^t  Petei^burR,  London, 
rpcw;)!  until  1347,  when,  according  to 
'^ui  of  21  January  of  that  year,  she 
nded  near  Youghal  and  went  to 
3eing  owned  in  Ireland,  and  trading 
ly  from  it,  3he  was  certainly  entitled 
sidei-ed  an  Irish  vessel 
[ABaHALL  doubts  whether  Lieut. 
Roberts,  R.N.,  the  commander  of 
i,  was  an  Irishman.  If  he  will  turn 
Q.;  2=^  S.  iv,  398,  he  will  find  my 
%u  inscription  from  the  monument 
by  hk  widow  in  the  churchyard 
f;e  West  in  the  county  of  Cork, 
nmences ;— 

:one  CAinmemoratei^  in  tk©  churchyttrd 
V€  paruh,  the  luentJS  and  the  premature 
be  tint  ufficer  \inder  whose  command  a 
el  0V9T  crasged  thp  Atlantic  OceAn,"  Ac. 

think,  I  have  proved  that  the  Sirius 
to  Ireland*  that  ahe  was  a  pasi^en ger 
and  commanded  by  an  Innhman, 
I  and  family,  to  my  personal  know- 

at  this  date  residents  there. 

EvERAED  Home  Coleman. 
:nock  Road, 

LN  (9"^  S.  vii.  47,  no),-See  Walter 
andor's  *  Work;*,'  1876,  viii,  425.  In 
n  'Francesco  Petrarcha,'  after  pro- 
lat  he  himself  would  be  almost  as 
tbbreviate  Francesco  into  Frank  as 
.into  Petrarch,  Landor  goes  on  to 

gliih  lake  strange  ijbertiea  with  Ttalian 
rrhap^  the  human  voice  can  articulat-e  no 
lea  of  sounds  than  the  aylUbles  which 
Livtimo.  Certainlv  the  same  remark  im 
e  to  Lfffhorn,  However,  wo  are  not 
nsure  for  this  depravation  j  it  originated 
&noeae.  the  ancient  maalers  of  the  town» 
aase  in  extremely  harbarous— not  unlike 
sal*)!  the  Trtjubidounj,  With  them  the 
onouncetj  hard^  as  it  always  was  among 
and  Romans,  in  com  moo  for  v;  thua 
%tforo." 

eaisay  on  Petrarcha  was  first  pub- 
the  Foreign  Quarterly  Review^  "July, 
Stephen  Wkeeler. 

AL     NiCKHAMES    {2^^    S.    \T.    28,    90, 

2B€,  401  ;  vii.  135).  ^  Perhaps  the 
colloquial  name^  for  the  variousi 
c,  loay  be  of  interest.  They  are 
from  *  Political  Americanisms/  by 
on,  189(3 :  Ba^lger  State,  Wi^tconsin  ; 
!,  MasJ^achu setts  ;  Bear  State,  Ar- 
Blue  Uen  Htate,  Delaware  ;  Blue 
ladians,  espH^cially  Nova  Scotians  ; 
States  Ohio ;  Ceutennial  State, 
Corn  Cracker  States   Kentucky; 


Cracker  State,  Georgia;  Creole  State  or 
Pelican  State,  Louiniana ;  Empire  State, 
New  York  ;  Hawkeye  Stat«,  Iowa  :  Hoosier 
State.,  Indiana;  Jay  hawk  era,  inhabitants  of 
Kan  sas  j  Key  si  ton  e  S  fca  te,  Pe  nn  sy  I  van  i  a ;  La  nd 
of  Steady  Habits  or  Nutmeg  State,  Connecti- 
cut ;  Little  Rhody»  Rhode  Inland  ;  Lumber 
State,  Pine  Tree  State,  Maine;  Mother  of 
Pre^iflent^,  Virginia ;  Porkopolis,  Cincin- 
nati ■  Sage  Brush  State,  Nevada, 

W.  B.  fl. 

Blackheads  (9^  S.  vii.  169).  —1  am  surprised 
that  this  word  is  not  alreatiy  in  the  '  H,E.D.,* 
aft  it  is  by  no  means  of  recent  coinage-  Black* 
heads  (more  commonly,  perhaps,  called  come- 
dores)  are  due  to  the  overcharging  with  fatty 
matter  of  the  sebaceous  glanda  of  the  8kin> 
The  technical  terra  for  this  disorder  is  acn£ 
piimtata^  The  blackness  in  due  to  dirt  which 
IS  absorbed  by  the  fatty  secretion  of  the 
gknd.  C  C  R 

Nine-tenths  of  the  people  who  are  troubled 
with  blackhead,^  would  not  know  them  under 
the  term  acne.  Blackhead  is  the  general 
name  for  the  dots  which  appear  in  the  pores 
of  many  skins;,  about  the  nose  generally,  ThB 
old  woman's  remedy  is  simple  :  soak  with  hot 
water  and  sq  ueeze  tnem  out.  There  is  another 
belief  that  the  blackheads  of  the  spots  are 
the  heads  of  live  grubs, 

TO08.  Ratclif^s, 

Worksop, 

The  term  "  blackheads  **  is  much  older  than 
1898*  Dr.  Erasmus  Wilson,  F.R.S.,  in  his 
*  Management  of  the  Sktn/  London,  1847, 
while  using  the  term,  also  describes  them  to 
be  *' punctuated  or  spotted  acne."  Halliwell, 
in  his  '  Dictionary  of  Archaic  and  Provincial 
Words,*  ninth  edition,  1879,  speaks  of  them  as 
**  boils."  EvEEARD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknoek  Road. 

This  term  hwi  been  familiar  to  me  from 
childhood  in  E^st  Cornwall  in  the  sense 
editorially  explained,  and  1  believe  it  is  to 
be  found  in  print  in  various  advertisements 
of  "  blood  purifiers,"  Dukheved, 

Bereterb  Family  (9^  S.  yi.  231,  278,  45S ; 
vii.  70).— We  have  no  definite  origin  for  the 
Banow  family  of  Essex,  but  Dame  Alice  of 
Barrow  also  came  from  Essex,  if  we  are  to 
accept  her  progenitor  Deorman  as  the  ex- 
truded owner  of  the  unidentified  Geddesdune 
in  Essex ;  for  L<jndon,  then  as  now,  wa^ 
largely  peopled  from  the  provinces.  Nor 
incleed  need  she  be  the  last  of  her  Barrow 
ckn.  Such  pedigrea^  zx%  Vk^Kji^-es^^r^^  yss.- 
perfect,  and   ytmug&t    wiQ&   ol  ft.  ^TW\K3i*a.% 


254 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,   [o^^  s.  vii.  makch  30. 1901. 


generation  may  bave  settled  away  fram 
Highbury,  True,  she  alienated  the  family 
estates  ill  Middlesex,  but  her  bequest*?  were 
to  the  Churchy  and  safe  from  collateral 
claims.  Yet  Maud  Barrow,  if  of  this  race, 
may  by  her  marriage  have  strengtheaed  any 
claims  held  by  Berners,  and  the  *Teata  de 
Nevil '  dates  after  the  death  of  Dame  Alice. 

A.  H, 

AottiLL  l8LAif  D  (9^**  S.  vi.  4§9 ;  vii,  S6,  IM, 
171).— I  fear  Mes,  O^Hanlon  has  been  im- 
posed upon.  The  value  of  her  communication 
on  its  linguistic  side  I  will  leave  to  Irish 
scholars.  Her  topography  is  quite  astray. 
There  is  no  ford  near  kildaviiefc  Castle,  andj 
it  would  seem,  never  could  have  been,  since 
the  sound  was  formed  in  some  remote  geologic 
period.  You  can  walk  across  the  sound  at 
low- water  spring  tides,  some  three  or  four 
miles  north  i  and,  before  the  (1888)  bridge 
and  causeway  furnished  a  roadway,  some 
traffic  crossed  at  low  water  by  a  ford  about 
five  hundred  yards  south  of  the  modern 
crossing,  the  rest  by  a  ferry  just  north  of 
the  present  structure.  C.  S.  Ward. 

Wootton  St.  Lawrence,  Baaingatoko. 

WhifFLEBS  and  WEIFFLINCr  {4*^  S.  xii.  384, 
354,  397.  416,  526  ;  9">  S.  vil  116).— The  art  of 
the  whiffler-waffler  is  still  known,  though  I 
have  not  seen  the  practice  for  a  number  of 
years.  Whiffling- waffling  was  common  when 
1  was  a  boy,  and  many  boys  could  give  very 
creditable  exhibitions  of  the  art  It  was 
always  done  with  a  stick,  as  thick  as^  but 
shorter  than,  an  ordinary  walking  stick,  I 
bave  seen  it  done  to  the  neat  of  a  lively  jig 
on  the  fiddle.  Some  men  were  great  experts, 
making  the  stick  twirl  in  the  hands  round 
and  about  all  parts  of  the  body — round  the 
head,  behind  the  back,  under  the  tbigh,  the 
whiffling- waffling  being  done  aa  easily  with 
the  left  as  with  the  right  hand.  When  the 
exhibition  was  out  of  doors  the  stick  was 
sent  whirling  high,  the  performer  dancing 
round  a  considerable  circle  before  catching 
it  at  the  right  moment  of  its  de^^cent.  The 
display  was  at  times  remarkably  clever,  and 
was  not  at  all  displeasing. 

ThOS.  EATCLI?rE. 
Worksop* 

"Bull  and  Last"  (B*^  S,  viL  128). -The 
symbol  of  one  trade  or  avocation  was  often, 
and  for  varying  reasons,  adopted  in  addition 
to  the  pre-existing  sign  of  another.  This 
being  the  case,  such  combinations  as  the 
above  present  as  a  rule  — and  the  "Bull 
^prl  Last "  is  probably  no  exception— little 


have  heard  it  said  that  the  "Lasf*  alludes 
to  the  fact  that  it  was  the  last  tavern  in 
Kentish  Town  before  breaking  into  the  open 
country  of  Highgate  and   Hampstead,  out 
this  is  sheer  fancy.    Compound  signs  of  the 
**  Bull "  are  quite  common,  as  the  '*  Bull  and 
Bush,"  the  *^Bull  and  Garter,"  &c.    80  also 
the  shoemaker's  last  lent  itself  to  other  com- 
binations.  as  the  "Last  and  Golden   Still," 
against  the  "Whit^  Hart ''Inn,  South  wark, 
and  a  *'  Jjast  and  Horseshoe "  in  St.  James^a 
Street,    Hay  market,    neither    of    which    is 
mentioned  in   the  'History  of  Signboards.' 
The  "Blue  Last"  was  a  common  sign,  dis- 
tinguishing a  "  house  of  call "  for  the  sons  of 
Bt.  Crispin.    Instances  still  exist  in  Broad- 
way, Ludgate  Hill,  in  Dorset  Street,  Fleet 
Street  (?X  and  in  Clerkenwell ;  and  there  wu 
one  (in  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century) 
in  the  Tyburn  Road.    Thtire  is  a  "Golden 
Last"  two  or  three  doors  from   the  Cord- 
wain  ers'  Hall  in  Cannon  Street;  and  in  the 
*  Vade  Mecum  for  Maltworms'  a  *'Last"i!i 
described  as  situated  at  Old   Bedlam,  and 
another  at  Islington,    The  last  is  not  borne 
in  the  Cord  wain ers'  anna,  so  that  its  adop- 
tion as  a  sign  is  probably  owing  to  its  being 
the  most  indispensable  instruDoeut  of  ihe 
shoemaker's  crart,  rather  than  to  the  censure 
addressed  by  Allies  to  the  cobbler,  *'Ke 
sutor  ultra  crepidam/'  a  proverb  which  no 
doubt  a  son  01  St.  Crispin  resolved  to  re- 
member in  some  degree    when  he  bectni^ 
tavern-keeper  at  the  *TBuU"  in  Kentish  To^ii, 
of  which,  before  it  was  rebuilt,  there  is  xa 
engraving  in  *  Old  and  New  London** 

J.  HoLDEK  MacMichasu 

As  there  is  a  **  Bull  and  Gate "  in  the 
Kentish  Town  Road,  I  imagine  the  sign  of  the 
more  northern  house  was  merely  adopted  to 
show  that  this  was  the  final  inn  along  ^ 
road  for  some  dtstance.  The  original  "  Ball 
and  Last"  must  have  been  considerably olfier 
than  the  *VDuke  of  St.  Albans  "  at  the  comef 
of  Swain*s  Lane.  Thus  there  was  prob&bly 
no  beerhouse  before  reaching  the  now  ex- 
tinct "Fox  and  Crown"  upn  West  Hill- 
The  board  which  chronicled  the  brave  ^° 
timely  act  of  the  landlord  there  in  stoppii^j! 
the  too  rapid  descent  of  our  late  Oaeen* 
carriage  at  that  dangerous  spot^  and  therehf 
no  doubt  preventing  an  accident,  is,  Ithisfc 
now  preserved  at  the  Highgate  Literary  Atrf 
Scientific  Institution.  Ckcii.  Clabes- 

Try  Boulogne  rEst  =  Boulogne 'Sar'SeiB^ 

i  n  con  trad  is  t inc  tion  to  Bou  1  og  n  e-su  r  ■  M  er.  ** 
the  estuary  of  the  Somme  (Boulogne  VOat^*)' 
Cf.  "Bull  and  Bush"  (at  Hampst-e^D^BoU; 


di/ficaltym  to  a  solution  of  their  ongin.    i\\o%TiE  ^uicba^  «JLsci    "Bull    and    MoQtli 


.^1130,19010   NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


266 


Boulogne  mouthX  formerlv  in  St.  Martin's- 
hOrand.     Analogy.  *'Bn]l  and  Gate"  (at 
[entish  Town)=Bouloffne  Gate,  the  entrance 
ito   the  Continent    through  France;  pro- 
%h\e  derivation  ttmp,  Henry  VIII/s  cam- 
ugn  in  Picardy. 
His  breeches  were  of  ragged  woollen 
That  had  been  at  the  siege  of  BullenjBoalogne). 
Butler,  *  Hudibras.' 
Gnomon. 
Temple. 

The  term  *'  Last "  is  probably  a  corruption 
'  leoih^  a  leather  thong  or  rope  which  would 
)  attached  to  the  ring  in  tne  nose  of  the 
lU  for  the  purpose  of  leading  it. 

John  Radcliffe. 

Shakespeare  the  "Knatish"  (9"»  S.  vii. 
8).— Perhaps  "knavish"  is  here  used  in  a 
ayful  sense,  as  we  now  often  use  "  roguish." 
Mwell  says  that  when  Davies  introduced 
m  to  Dr.  Johnson  he  said  "  roguishly  "  that 
r.  Boswell  came  from  Scotland.  JBoswell 
les  not  mean  that  Davies  was  a  rogue.  In 
e  novel  called  *Lena'  the  heroine  Cecil 
raits  her  lover's  proposal  with  a  look  of 
oy  malice,"  but  Cecu's  feeling  for  him  is 
D  reverse  of  malica  M.  N.  G. 

ViiL  Axon's  interesting  note  suggests  the 

98tion,    Was  "  knavish "  never    used    as 

>guish"  is  now,  in  a   humorously  affec- 

late  sense?    H.  T.'s  letter  is,  as  Mb.  Axon 

),  conceived  in  a  vein  of  humour,  and  it 

OS  but  a  slight  ground  on  which  to  found 

arge  of  detraction  of  Shakespeare. 

C.  C.  B. 

)BCEstebshire  Folk-lore  (9**»  S.  vi.  410, 

-Your  first  correspondent  speaks  of  this 

symbol  language  which  is  unknown  "  to 

This  sort  of  language  is  common  in  war 

-our  usual  condition,  that  is— in  South 

can    republics.      Messages,    verbal  or 

3,  cannot  be  delivered,  and  wit  and 

r  must  ^o  to  work  to  find  another  way 

nunication. 

est  instance  I  know  was  in  Mosquera's 

on  in  Colombia  (1860-4),  the  situa- 

Dg  this :  General  Mosquera  in  prison 

.td;    "El  Tuso"  Gutierrez  with  an 

the  way  to  his  relief  had  arrived  in 

a  few  leagues  distant.    Mosquera's 

,  who  was  in  Bogotd,  wished  to  let 

)r  know  the  good  news.    Now  the 

"  El    Tuso  '^  means    "  the    pock- 

Tu80  also  means  a  husk  of  Indian 

h  rather  looks  like  small-pox  marks 

seeds  are  removed.    Cipacird  is  a 

\t  town.     Therefore  Amalia  Mos-| 

laged    to  have  conveyed  to  her] 


father  by  the  jailer  a  green  husk  of  com,  of 
which  she  said  he  was  very  fond,  and  out  of 
which,  on  the  under  side,  she  had  removed 
the  grains,  placing  the  corn  in  a  plate  of 
salt.  So  that  Mosquera^  on  turning  it  over, 
perceived  "a  husk  in  the  salt,"  and  rightly 
read  the  riddle,  "*E1  Tuso*  Gutierrez  is  in 
Cipacird."  iBAOUi. 

"  Bandy-legged  "  =  **  Knock-kneed  "  (9**» 
S.  vii  124).— Bandy  legs  are  crooked  legs, 
and  the  term  is  commoniv  used  both  of  bow- 
legs and  of  knock-kneed  ones.  So  far  as 
my  experience  goes,  however,  the  latter  use 
is,  I  think,  most  frequent,  and  I  should  never 
myself  call  bow-legs  bandv.  Huloet's  identi- 
fication of  "bow-legged"  with  ''knock- 
kneed"  is  absurd.  The  difference  between 
them  is  well  set  forth  in  a  supposed  planta- 
tion song  in  a  tale  of  slave  life  which 
appeared  many  years  ago  in  Tatfa  Magazine. 
I  quote  it  from  memory  : — 

Our  wench  Sal, 

She  hab  two  beau ; 
Dere  *9  bow-lemd  Jim 

And  knock -luieed  Joe» 

To  win  dis  gal 

To  dere  embrace. 
Poor  Jim  and  Joe 

Would  run  a  race. 

Jim  couldn't  run, 

Him  tread  him  toe ; 
De  skin  rub  off 

De  knees  of  Joe. 

Oh.  Sally  she  look  sad, 
And  cry  at  de  disgrace 

Dat  ueder  Jim  nor  Joe 
Was  made  to  run  a  race. 

Littleton  (1693)  under  'Bandy-leg'  has 
"va/flrw«,  varus"  his  definition  of  the  former 
wora  being  '*  that  hath  his  legs  bowed  out- 
ward," of  the  latter  *'  having  crooked  legs 
which  bend  inward."  C.  C.  B. 

"  Bandv-legged  "  is  in  use  on  Tyneside,  but 
in  quite  the  opposite  sense  to  '*  knock-kneed .'' 
A  local  song  gives  :— 

The  space  between  mv  bandy  legs 
Is  about  a  foot  and  a  half. 

•TheWestoeDarUng.' 
R.  B— R. 

When  I  was  an  apprentice  in  the  West 
Riding  of  Yorkshire  during  the  late  fifties  the 
common  and  graphic  definition  of  a  bandy- 
legged man  was  that  he  was  one  who  "couldn't 
stop  a  pig  in  an  entry."  This,  of  course,  meant 
that  the  person's  misformed  lower  limbs  were 
so  bowea  that  a  chance  errant  hog,  meeting 
him  in  a  narrow  passage^  would  eaaxV^ 
escape  capture  by  Tunnma  TOVwefeTL\v\^\^^K^ 


258 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  pr«»s.viL  march  30.1901. 


Henby  VIL  (9^  S.  vii.  110).- See  'Poly- 
dori  Virgilii  Historia  Anglica';  Hall's  and 
Fabyan*s  chronicles  ;  letters  and  papers  of 
Richard  III.  and  Henry  VII.  (Rolls  Series) ; 
Cooper's  'Memorials  of  Margaret,  Countess 
of  Richmond  and  Derby.'       A.  R.  Batlet. 

Whitgift's  Hospital,  Croydon  (9***  S.  vi. 
341,  383,  402,  423,  479.  513  ;  vii.  178).— I  quite 
agree  with  Mr.  Arxott  that  it  is  desirable 
any  doubt  as  to  who  was  the  author  of  the 
'Admonition '  should,  if  possible,  be  removed. 
It  will,  I  think,  be  admitted  that  in  his 
attempt  to  do  so  he  has — unwittingly  no 
doubt— somewhat  changed  his  position.  His 
first  note  does  not  admit  oi  Cartwright 
having  written  any  'Admonition.'  Now  he 
recognizes  at  least  the  fact  that  Cartwright 
wrote  an  'Admonition.'  Mr.  Arnott,  if  I 
may  be  permitted  to  say  it,  has  not  been 
very  happy  in  this  or  his  quotations.  He 
surely  does  not  wish  us  to  ground  our  belief 
in  Field  and  Wilcox  being  the  authors, 
because  "the  persons  that  are  thcraght  [the 
italics  are  my  own]  to  have  made  them  were 
in  prison.'* 

I  am  afraid  I  have  good  cause  to  charge 
Mr.  Arnott  with  a  greater  breach  of  sound 
argument  than  even  this,  for  does  he  not 
say,  with  regard  to  the  quotation  in  ques- 
tion, "  that  it  shows  conclusively  that  Cart- 
wright did  not  write  tbe  'Admonition  '"?  I 
venture  to  assert  that  it  does  nothing  of  the 
kind — in  fact,  the  extract  does  not  prove  any- 
thing but  that  two  men  were  imprisoned 
without  evidence  or  on  very  slender  evidence 
of  guilt.  Against  this  quotation  let  me 
place  '  Histona  Vitae  nostrse  Magistra.  Bodin., 
1674,'  on  p.  237  of  which  will  be  found  a  list 
of  the  books  written  by  Whitgift  and  Cart- 
wright on  the  subject  before  us,  the  first  line 
being  "The  Admonition  first  and  second 
made  by  Mr.  Cartwright."  Surely  we  are 
entitled  to  place  more  confidence  in  this 
than  in  Mr.  Arnott's  extracts.  The  writer 
from  whom  I  quote  would  unquestionably 
have  within  his  reach  evidence  as  reliable 
and  precise  as  the  authorities  named  by  Mr. 
Arnott. 

Is  it  not  somewhat  remarkable,  following 
Mr.  Arnott's  premises,  that  Field  and 
Wilcox  should  have  written  such  a  stirring 
article,  should  have  sprung  the  'Admonition ' 
upon  the  literary  world,  and  as  suddenly 
dropp^  the  matter,  leaving  the  subject  to 
be  rollowed  by  others  ? 

Who  were  Field  and  Wilcox  ?    Is  there  any 

record  oi  these  gentlemen's  controversial  or 

literary   ability   before   or   after  the   date 


Mr.  Arnott's  supposed  proofs  resolve  them- 
selves ?  1.  It  was  thought  Field  and  Wilcox 
were  the  writers.  2.  The  'Athenae'  writers 
say  such  was  the  case.  3.  Brook  says  the 
sam& 

The  first  can,  I  think,  be  put  aside,  for  the 
reasons  I  have  given.  The  second  is  not 
reliable,  because  the  list  of  publicatioDs 
therein  given  is  inaccurate  or  incomplete; 
therefore  I  put  it  away.  We  are  thus  thrown 
back  upon  Brook,  who,  I  venture  to  say, 
is  not  an  author  of  such  pre-eminence  or 
authority  as  to  outweigh  those  I  have  named ; 
and  as  Brook  seems  not  to  have  given  his 
authority  for  the  assertion  in  question,  I 
conclude  he  derived  his  information  from 
sources  1  and  2,  already  disposed  of. 
Readers'  estimation  of  Brook  will  hardly  be 
enhanced  by  Mr.  Arnott's  own  valuation  of 
him,  for  does  it  not  appear  that  "a  pre- 
judiced and  one-sided  writer"  will  require  to 
be  very  much  remodelled  and  recast  before 
he  would  become  "straightforward"] 

Let  me  now  point  to  several  facts  bearinff 
on  the  subject  which  go  to  throw  additional 
doubt,  if  any  remained,  upon  Mr.  Arnott's 
contention. 

In  the  works  of  John  Whitgift  edited  for 
the  Parker  Society,  1863,  we  are  told  Whit- 
gift was  in  September,  1572,  engaged  upon 
the  '  Admonition '  controversy.  The  writers 
in  the  '  Athenae '  state  that  Field  and  Wilcox 
were  in  prison  about  November,  1672.  The 
Parker  Society's  publication  states  that 
"The 'Admonition  comprised  two  parts  or 
treatises,  printed  without  any  author  s  naniei" 
adding,  "  but  understood  to  have  been  written 
by  John  Field  and  Thomas  Wilcox."  Here 
again  we  have  only  supposititious  statement 
Tnis  is  followed  oy  a  more  extraordinary 
assertion,  thus  :  "  It  was  followed  by  another 
similar  piece,  entitled  '  A  Second  Admonition 
to  the  Parliament,'  written,  it  is  supposed,  hy 
Cartwright  himself."  What  does  the  last 
sentence  mean  ?  If  Field  and  Wilcox  actually 
were  the  bond  fide  authors  of  the  first,  why 
say  "  Cartwright  is  supposed  to  have  written 
the  second  himself^*  (italics  by  myself)  t 

Did  Cartwright  dictate  or  inspire  the  first » 
is  perhaps  a  question  hinted  at  here. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  in  both  cases  tb« 
same  hypothesis  is  used.  But  what  is  tbe 
fact?  Why,  the  following  :  "A  reply  to  the 
answer  made  by  M.  Doctor  Whitgifte  »g*^y!, .. 
the  Admonition  to  Parliament  By  Tp- 
If  circumstantial  evidence  was  wantii>£ji 
which  it  is  not,  here  we  have  positive  pro^ 
that  the '  Admonition '  referred  to  was  wntt^ 
\>^  TVvom«A  Cartwright.    Yet  in  the  foce  .<» 


literary   ability   before   or   after  the    datexb^  vtvomaa  vjartwnght.     Yet  in  the  we  w 
of  the  'Admonition'^    But   into  vbat  do\eV\dexic«k  «viOci  «a  vcv\&^V5cl^  \Kx\^ 


vilbiabch3o,i9oi.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


257 


Yj  w©  are  aaked  to  believe,  on  the 
lity  of  even  the  Parker  Society  pub- 
in,  that  "it  in  suppos^eH  "  to  have  f>een 
m  by  Cartwright.  Again,  we  have  "A 
se  or  the  Ecolesiantical  Regiment*  Jec,, 
•d  by  T,  C*  in  his  reply  againJit  D.  Whit- 
Anno  1574/* 

imin^  up  the  evidence  ao  far  produced, 
certain  that  there  h  no  direct  prtx>f 
he  'Admonition'  was  the  product  of 
and  Wilcox,  or  that  they  ever  wrote 
ilinhed  it;  failing  thisi,  the  circum«itan- 
interaptirarj'  (and  otherwijie)  evidence 
luestionably  in  favour  of  Cartwright 
I  written  *The  Admonition  to  Pa rha- 
Alfeeb  Cila3.  Johab. 

DON  Evening  Pafee  (9'**  S.  vii,  165).— 

'  be  interesting  to  note  that  an  evening 

called  The  Suhwbm  in  existence  when 

Victoria  ascended  the  throne.    I  have 

poajjenaion  a  copy  of  thisj  paper  ci>n- 

f  particulars  of  tne  Queen^^  coronation, 

:>nnted  in  gold  and  published  at  six- 

It   beapH  date   "London,  Thur»flay 

igf  June  2d,  163Sp"  and   h   numbered 

John  T.  Pagk. 

H&ddoDf  Northtt^mptonibire. 

Uhm''{B^  S.  vii,  167).— An  example  of 
,me  for  weak  or  deformed  sheep  occurs 
:g*s  '  Brownie  of  Bodsbeck,'  chap.  viii. 
Clave rhouse  asks  the  younger  of  the 
iho|>e  boys  to  state  what  vi*iitorj^  have 
y  been  at  the  farmhouse,  he  begins  his 
hua  ■— 

?1,  ye  pee.  firit  there  waa  Geordie  the  flesiber, 
t  look  away  the  cracks  and  the  pauli^,  and 
?k  It 'lamb,  and  gae  tne  a  penny  for  aetting 
oagh  alHcea  the  lochs." 

rockn  *'  are  the  old  ewe^  the  "  pauliea " 
i  weakHngH  destitute  of  pronjise,  and 
rockit-ltt^mb  '  h  a  cro^^ybred  specimen 
^y  f ace.  The  etymology  of  "'paulie*' 
tf u  1 .  r  n  h  i  N  ac  cou  n  t  of  *  *  pau  I  ie-f  oo  ti  t»  '* 
r,  Jami&^on  Huege^tn  an  ori|?in  of  what 
the  same  word.       Thomas  Bayne, 

word  is  uaed  io  the  Scottish  lowlands 
-ense  of  *'pdl«y."  A  person  who  allows 
id  to  haog  loosely  from  the  wHflt  (aa 
condition  known  as  wrist-drop)  is 
uly  called  "  Pau lie^ hand."     J.  A.  B. 

will  be  a  substantival  form  of  "  poorly." 
^ajihire  one  hearH  it  pronounced  some- 
pau  lie,"  and  some  times  bm  though  the 
liable  rimed  with  '*bowl,"  a^  **powlie/' 
>ll  haa  "  poverly  '*  in  addition  to 
'/*  Jaroieson  fciven  the  verb  '*  to  poor." 
iy  therefore  take  it  that  a  iiuWtantive 
fmow  Iram  the  ^jective  "poorly.^* 


Possibly  "pailie"  is  from  a  different  root 
"  Pallitf "  and  **  poorly,"  capable  of  the  same 
meaning,  have  different  derivations. 

Arthur  Mayaix. 

Doubtful  Passages  in  Chaucer  (9^  8. 
vii.  82.  189).— May  1  be  allowed  to  point 
out  that  an  edition  of  Chaucer  was  published 
in  1894,  in  which  several  of  the  points  dealt 
with  are  explained  ?  The  edition  was  printed 
at  Oxford,  in  six  volttmes.  I  take  the  pointa 
one  by  one* 

1.  Trewe-lQve,  *C.  T./  3692. -The  reference 
is  to  herb-pari«  ;  see  voL  v.  109.  There  is  no 
support  for  any  other  reading ;  the  reading 
trt4eaf  (or  whatever  it  is)  will  not  scan. 

2.  FfVeioof.— Explainetl  in  the  note,  vol,  v. 
p.  110,  The  HUggested  meaning  of  " quickly  " 
will  hardly  do.  The  0,R  for  "quickly  "  was 
not  toi^  but  toM. 

3.  EibiUe,  *C.  T.,'  333  L  -  Explained  in 
vol.  V,  102  as  the  Moorish  rabdh,  preci-^^ely 
as  we  are  now  told  (antt,  p.  189)  it  ought 
to  be.  The  quotation  which  your  corre- 
spondent has  **  chafed  for  yeara"  is  well 
known  to  me.  It  is  from  a  *Poem  on  the 
Evil  Times  of  Edward  11.,'  publislied  by  the 
Percy  Society  in  1649,  p.  8,  The  misprint  of 
ikeiffer  instead  of  gkewer^  a  mirror,  is  some- 
what lingular. 

4.  Chirking^  chirke.  —  Explained  in  the 
Glossary,  vi.  48,  and  in  *H.KD/  There  ia 
no  difficulty; 

5.  ^d/i>w;a^tf.— Fully  explained  in  the  Notes, 
V.37.    See*H.E.D/ 

6.  Gat-iothed.—  Bee  Note«,  r,  44.  The  ex- 
planation from  {lat  gfjat,  is  wrong,  for 
Uhaucer*»  spelling  of  goat  is  ^oot.  He  did 
not  write  in  Northumbrian. 

7.  Citole.  —  The  Glossary  duly  refers  to 

S.  Dreint,  "drownwl"  ;  Glns.sary,  vi.  79. 

9.  Pavadsj  an  error  for  jfamide.  See  note 
V.  117. 

10.  Popper,  **  a  small  dagger";  v,  117. 

11.  Ilawebake;  denote,  v.  141 ;  cf.  *H.E.D* 
Quite  distinct  from  htiuberk  and  from  hfite- 
hu€k ;  see  '  H.E.D.'    Hauberk  would  not  scan. 

12.  Whffl^j  i  e.,  **  time."    See  Glossary. 

13  MaknuL  Tyrwhitfc  ia  riKht,  a^  the 
word  occurs  four  times.  See  Glossary,  vi,  160. 

14.  Rihiht;  see  note,  v.  325, 

15.  Chtre,  *'a  Uxik  "  ;  see  Glossary,  vi.  45. 

16.  Wadk'B  Aole.— Not  **a  messenger,"  be- 
cause the  M.E,  form  of  messenger  was  hode^ 
not  boi£.  If  ^H.E.D.^  is  not  aceesi^ible^  see 
Btrattnann. 

17.  Biuke-heritd ;    see  no^,  ^.  ^a.    "^^. 
This  note  was  fersjt  prmWi  Va  X^ll^^xv^NsaA 
been  frequently  repntil^A, 


268 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.   [9«»8.vu.MA»oH3a,iwL 


18.  Wafereres  ;  see  note,  v.  277.  It  does  not 
mean  "wayfarers,"  but  " waferwomen,"  a 
term  explained  by  Nares. 

19.  Vitremite ;  see  note,  v.  237. 

20.  Coif  ox  ;  see  note,  v.  256.  It  is  pei-fectly 
obvious  that  neither  my  edition  nor  the 
*H.E.D.'  has  been  consulted. 

Walter  W.  Skeat. 

The  difference  between  "chark"  and 
**  chirk "  is  noticeable  in  the  speech  of  pro- 
vincial Scotland.  The  former,  from  O.E. 
cearcian^  gets  the  form  "  jirk,"  and  indicates  a 
rasping,  disagreeable  noise,  such  as  that  pro- 
duced Dv  the  fl^rinding  of  the  teeth  during 
sleep,  while  the  latter  is  pronounced  as 
"  chy rk ''  or  "  cheerik,"  and  applies  to  a  light 
and  piping  sound.  A  woman  with  a  thin, 
tremulous  voice,  or  a  man  similarly  endowed 
—especially  if,  in  addition,  either  is  not  fully 
trusted—is  summarily  dismissed  as  a  "  cheen- 
kin  peaseweep  o'  a  creatur*.''  It  would  be 
difficult  to  ^et  further  than  the  supreme  con- 
tempt implied  in  that  description. 

THOMAS  BaTNB. 

Glasgow. 

"The  spotted  neobo  boy"  (9^  S.  v.  456, 
506  ;  vi.  55).— This  was  probably  the  skin 
disease  called  in  Spanish  carate.  It  is  quite 
common  in  the  Republic  of  Colombia  (S.A.), 
and  is,  I  am  told,  an  affection  of  the  colouring 
pigments  of  the  skin.  The  outer  surface  is 
smooth,  and  there  is  no  pain  nor  irritation. 
Black  people  show  the  results  more  than 
brown  or  white  ones,  but  they  are  all  liable 
to  get  it  as  also  are  some  animals.  They  look 
cklea  or  piebald— the  black  part  blacker 


Manusgbipts  AT  Pabis  (9***  S.  vii. 
There  is  an  elaborate  photographic  studio 
attached  to  the  Bibliotn^ue  Nationale,  so 
that,  so  far  as  that  institution  is  ooncemed, 
there  would  be  no  difficulty  in  obtaining  fac- 
similes. As  to  other  places  in  Paris,  Seibiol 
might  write  to  M.  Lipoid  Delisle  at  the  Bib. 
Nat.  and  ask  to  be  put  in  communication 
with  the  official  photographer. 

W.  Bobebts. 

47,  Lanadowne  Gardens,  S.  W. 

Seneca  and  Qalen:  Tbanslations 
Wanted  (9^  S.  vi.  387 ;  vii.  132).— There  is 
no  translation  of  Qalen  into  English,  bat 
there  is  a  French  translation,  "  (Euyres  Ana- 
tomiques,    Physiologiques   et    M^icales  de 

Qalien,  traduites par  le  Dr.  Ch.  Darem- 

berg,  2  vols.,  Paris,  J.  B.  Balli^re,  1854-6." 
W.  R.  B.  Fbideaux. 

Royal  College  of  Physicians. 

"  Rouen  "  and  "  Succedaneum  "  (9"»  S.  vii 
149,  214).— An  earlier  instance  of  rouen  than 
any  hitherto  quoted  occurs  in  Sir  Thomas 
Elyot's  •Castel  of  Helth'  (1534X  bk.  iiL 
chap.  xii. :  "  As  mylke  hot  from  the  udder,  or 
at  the  lest  new  milked,  ruen  cheese,  sweete 
almondes,"  &c.  In  the  edition  of  1561  it  is 
**ruen  chese,"  in  that  of  1580  **sweteRaeix 
cheese.''  R.  D.  Wimon. 


specE 

than  it  naturally 

much  whiter  also. 


would  be,  and 


the  white 
Ibagu^. 


"  Put  a  spoke  in  the  wheel  "  (9"»  S.  vii. 
128).— The  allusion  is  to  the  pin  or  spoke 
used  to  lock  wheels  in  machinery ;  hence,  to 
put  an  impediment  in  one's  way,  to  act  the 
"  spoil-sport,"  to  interfere  unwarrantably  or 
indiscreetly.  See  Brewer's  *Dict.  of  Phrase 
and  Fable,^  1895. 

J.  Holden  MacMichael. 

Certainly  this  is  accepted  as  meaning  to  do 
another  an  injury — "to  put  another  nail  in 
his  coffin,"  in  fact.  Habby  Hems. 

Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

Gun  Repobts  (9***  S.  vii.  207).— These  were 
fully  explained  and  accounted  for  at  the 
time  by  some  correspondents  of  one  of  the 
newspapers— I  cannot  recollect  which,  but  I 
believe  the  Morning  Post.  The  configuration 
of  the  country  was  the  chief  element,  1 
believe.  Ralph  Thomab. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  &c. 

East  London.    By  Walter  Besant,  M.A.    (Chw         t 

&  Windus.) 
Ikdefatiqable  in  his  explorations  of  London,  S 

Walter  Besant  has  now  begun  afresh  his  labonr^^B 
describing  what  at  present  and  for  a  few  j^mm^ 
longer  may  be  described  as  its  easternmost  port^-—4< 
The  district  with  which  he  deals  is  that  to  the  n^^HDi 
of  the  Thames  which  stretches  from  BishopsBEi^ 
Street  to  East  Ham,  and  includes  the  once-subuj^K^ 
villages  of  Hackney,  Clapton,  Stoke  Newinj^r—toi 
Old  Fordj  Stepney,  Bow,  and  Stratford.    A  ic —  £ia 
less  familiar  to  the  resident  in  Central  and  Vie^mtera 
London  cannot  easily  be  found.    We  ourselv^aE*  in 
days  gone  by  have  explored  the  greater  part  o^  the 
district,  and  have  even  trudsed  to  the  coxMUtiy 
beyond  so  far  as  Romford.    What  a  few  yearv  Mgo 
even  were  green  fields  or  marshy  tracts  are  aow 
covered  witn  houses,  mostly  of  indescribable  ugli- 
ness and  squalor,  and  on  the   entire   part  wit^ 
which  Sir  Walter  is  ooncemed  is  now  settled    ^ 
population  of  two  millions.    Little  enough  is  Umt'^ 
in  the  shape  of  architectural  beauty  or  hi8toric^i«^ 
association   on    which    Sir    Walter   can    ex«rcitp««'^ 
his  practised  pen.     Only  one  piece  of  description^ 
is   furnished  m  which  we  reooghijBe   the   aotbo^^ 
of  *  South  London.*    This  is  caUed  '*The  WaU"      < 
not    London    Wall,    as    is    carefully    expUaiwdr  ^ 
but  that   long  wall   of    unknown    origin  wMd^ 

i\xii%  tAoTv^  \.Yv«  wQitWv  V^axik  of  the  Thames  tad  i^S 


\' 


9*  &  vii  MAwm  30. 1901.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


259 


hotte  E^«x  islAnds  which  were  once  broad  eTpon^^ 
if  mtid  6.1  low  tide^  and  at  hM.  tido  shallow  and 
meleaa  atr^tches  of  water/'  Tra^ellin^  always  on 
QO%  and  ftlonop  we  hesitated  to  eiplom  pl^^^ 
'ir«T7  yard  of  which  seemed  sujcgestive  of  poBsihle 
iolenc«  *nd  crime.  Sir  Walter,  whose  ioumeys, 
re  apmCj  were  not  aoUtary,  fool  a  with  ug,  and  says 
if  the  wall,  which  extends  one  hundred  and  thirty 
nilw :  **  If  on©  ware  to  tall  of  a  murder,  this  would 

m  a  fitting  pi&ce  for  the  crime The  murderer 

m>u1d  choose  the  time  between  the  ^lasaing  of  two 
ihips ;  no  one  conld  po«ath|y  (lee  him  ;  he  would 
:oiMiact  hia  victim  along  the  wall,  converaine 
i|e&9antly  till  the  favonrable  momont  arrived. 
rhe  deed  accompliahed^  he  would  leave  the  wall 
md  itrike  acroAs  the  hetde  till  he  found  a  path 
loading  to  the  haunts  of  man.  Any  secret  or  for- 
[ndden  thing  mieht  be  conveniently  tpansacted  on 
ihe  wall;  it  womd  be  a  perfectly  aiife  place  for  the 
son  jurat  ion  of  conflrjiratora  and  the  concoction  of 
their  plana,  or  it  would  be  a  place  to  hide  a  stolon  trea* 
!ure,..-..or  where  a  hunted  man  could  land  refuge." 
CTn<»nny  indeed  it  iS|  and  there  is  no  attraction 
Deyond  the  sense  of  absolute  soli  tan  ness  that  could 
i«M  one  to  it.  It  is  with  the  working  populat  ion  of 
the  East- End  town  that  Sir  Walter  la  principally 
soncerned.  Of  this  he  writes  sym pathetically  and 
lAree-heartedly.  He  is  happier  tnati  were  we,  for  ho 
Inda  something  to  admire  phyHically  in  thedenizena. 
To  us  a  few  years  aco  the  total  absence  of  anything 
ipproachinj^  to  good  looks  was  appallioK.  It  seemed 
ui  if  the  children  were  born  old.  or  had  not  time  to 
itay  young.  We  know  indeed  few  things  more 
iftddening  than  to  walk  down  those  eudleaa  miles 
of  8treetft»  each  just  like  the  other.  Concerning 
the  Pool  of  Lpondon,  the  docks,  the  Tower  Bridge, 
Su%»  much  may^  be  and  is  said,  and  the  book  is  reaa>^ 
able  and  admirable.  Specially  attractive  are  the 
LUuatrations,  which  include  an  etching  by  Francis 
S.  Walker^  R.E.,  and  characteristic  deifi^^s  by  Phil 
May,  Joseph  Pennell>  and  L.  Raven  Hi  11.  Theae 
^re  numerous  and  well  executed,  and  the  book  is 
attractive  to  the  artkt  as  well  as  the  sociologiit. 
Residents  in  the  West -End  will  find  subject  for 
serious  reflections  in  the  pictures  presented  of  a  life 
so  close  to  them  and  so  apart  from  their  own.  In 
rea^Mng  the  volume^  which  is  handsomely  got  up 
in  all  respects,  we  find  it  dii&cult  to  resist  the 
QondusioD  that  it  was  originally  designed  for  an 
AmeHcaB  public 

The  Mtxrriagt  BegvdtrH  of  Sl  Dun$lmi\  St^fftev. 

Edited  by  Thomas  Colyer-Ferguaaon. — VoL  IIl^ 

1W7- 1719.  ( Pr  i  vately  p  rin  ted  J 
EiOHTEKN  months  after  the  appearance  of  the 
seoond  volume  of  Mr,  Colyer-  Fer^usson^s  meritorious 
labours  the  third  volume.  carr)ring  the  register  up 
to  1713,  sees  the  light.  Materials  enough  for  one 
mere  volnme  exist,  should  it  be  held  desirable  to 
complete  the  re^sters  up  to  the  Hardwicke  Mar- 
riage Act.  We  have  reached  now  in  this  volume 
R  point  at  which  the  tide  of  westward  migration 
bad  begun,  and  few  records  of  great  interest  to  the 
historian  or  the  student  of  literature  reward  the 
aearcb.  Our  own  explorations  failed  to  bring  to 
light  records  of  such  interest  as  we  traced  ip 
dealinK  with  the  previous  volumes  (see  9^  H*  ii. 
279;  iv.  238),  Mr.  Colyer-Fergusiion  points  out. 
however,  that  "on  the  29^»' January »  1717,  Edmund 
Marten,  of  New  College  in  Oxford,  clerk  (snb&e- 
«|uently  Dean  of  Wort^ester),  married  Dame  Ajina- 
Howard,  of  North  ABto%  m  y*'  Goiintj  id 


Oxford,"  and  that ''  on  7*1*  April,  1697,  Mr.  William 
(i reaves  of  Limehouae,  shipwright,  espoused  Eliza- 
betb  Consett  of  Mile  end,"  This  Greaves,  or  Graves, 
was  a  member  of  a  once  well-known  shipbuilding 
firm.  Huguenot  names  remain,  of  course,  ahundant, 
thouj^h  the  indications  are  not  such  as  enable  us  to 
associato  the  bearers  with  any  well  known  refugees. 
In  a  peat  many  case^  the  namr^s  have  nndengone 
modihcation,  a«  Martin o  is  presumably  Marti neau. 
It  is  sincerely  to  be  hoped  that  Mr.  C^lyer-Ferguseon 
wi(l  receive  the  support  that  will  encourage  him  to 
complete  his  loyally  and  earnestly  conducted  task, 
tfia  work,  which,  as  at  the  references  indicated 
above  we  have  said,  is  limited  to  one  hundred 
copies,  can  be  obtained  from  him  at  Womb  well 
Hall,  Gravesend. 

Greek    Thinkern.     By    Prof*    Theodore    Goinper^. 

Vol,  I.  (Murray.) 
Will  the  time  ever  come  when  the  thoughts  and 
speculations  of  the  wise  men  of  ancient  Hellas  will 
have  lost  the  fascination  which  they  have  so  long 
exercised  over  humanity?  Apparently  not,  Ho 
long  as  the  world  lasts  the  profound  intuitions  and 
audttciouH  ratiocinations  of  that  singularly  gifted 
race*  with  its  keen  intellect  and  subtle  imaginings, 
will  throw  a  dominating  glamour  over  the  student 
of  philosophy.  The  world  may  progress,  but  Hel- 
lenism is  never  out  of  date  nor  depoeed  from  its 
pride  of  place.  The  ofiening  days  of  the  twentieth 
century  place  before  the  English  public  the  iirst 
instalment  of  a  new  work  on  this  ever-fresh  theme 
in  a  translation  of  the  *  Griechische  Den ker*  of 
Prof.  Gomtierz,  of  Vienna,  which  appeared  four 
years  ago  at  Leipzijj.  Dr.  <.}omi>er7.  has  devoted 
the  labours  of  a  lifetime  to  this  b [fecial  department 
of  knowledge,  and  possesses  all  the  essential  virtues 
of  erudition,  candour,  analytical  power,  and  sober- 
neas  of  judgment  which  such  a  work  demands.  In 
particulari  he  displays  an  extent  of  reading  which 
IS*  little  short  of  marvelloua,  and  quotes  our  Oxford 
and  Cambridge  scholars  as  JFreely  and  readily  as  he 
does  hia  Irerman  con/rires.  Even  the  byways  of 
English  literature  he  seems  to  have  visited  and 
laid  under  contribution.  Thus,  when  he  would 
describe  the  stilted  antithetical  style  of  the  sophist 
(torgiaa^  he  does  so  hy  means  of  a  very  i^t  ipiolBr 
tlon  f rom  one  of  the  scarcer  eupbuistic  treatises  of 
John  Lyly.  When  we  add  to  these  good  gifts  the 
charm  of  a  brilliant  and  pellucid  style,  a  graphic 
mode  of  presentment,  and  a  wide  sympathy  with 
culture,  n^odern  as  well  as  ancient,  we  have  all  the 
elements  of  a  work  which  ought  to  reoeive  a  cordial 
welcome  from  the  English  reader,  as  no  douht  it 
will.  The  translator,  moreover,  Mr-  Laurie  Magnus, 
who  has  been  heliwd  hy  the  direct  co-operation  of 
the  author,  has  none  his  part  with  such  success 
that  he  is  altogether  forgotten  in  the  t^ruaal, 
which  is  t>^rhaps  his  highest  praise.  We  may  just 
hint  our  dishke  of  the  phrase  that  a  person 
**  coalesces "  two  things,  and  of  the  archaism 
"■  hearkening  a  song.^* 

It  would  ne  manifestly  imt possible  to  give  mni-e 
than  the  barest  outline  of  what  this  well- tilled 
volume  con  tains.  Opening  with  an  introduction, 
in  which  he  ^ves  a  masterly  survey  of  the  e  Sec  Is 
of  it«  environment  on  ancient  Greece,  its  obliga- 
tions to  the  more  ancient  civilijuitions  of  Babylon 
and  Egypt,  and  its  earliest  religious  developmcivt 
through  animism  to  v^\YtV\fe\au\,\>x.<^xn\teri,  i^waa 
on  to  discuss  tht^  naive  apef^\]Ak\»vQ»\i'B^  ol  ^Vv^^a  <2^.  j 

Miletus,    Aiiaximti,ud^ti    ^otwiSaSAu^    aja^    ^'OiJk^t        y 


260 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.   [9«'8.vilmabch3o.mol 


natural  philosopberfi  of  Ionia.  Referring  hem  to 
the  beginainj?  of  adetitiAc  reaearehr  hu  tnakea  tho 
tiUggiaative  remark  that  it  woa  'Va  dauble  bletaing 
for  tho  fre«  progreaa  of  thought  among  the  Greeks 
that  their  jiredaceusors  in  civiliaatioti  possessed  an 
organized  prieathood^  and  that  they  themE^eUca 
lacked  it.  The  Orijhic  aud  Pythagorean  ftya- 
temn  then  eng^age  attention*  Book  II.  in  devoted 
to  the  raetapnyaiciiuia  and  positive- acientiata  from 
Parmenides,  the  founder  of  thedoctntie  of  unity  and 
the  onchaDgeability  of  matter,  down  to  that  suov^Tif 
charlatan  Enip^^doclos,  who  was  nevertheless  the 
father  of  modern  chemiatry.  Book  II L  deaU  with 
the  VAge  of  Enlightentn^nC  which  takes  in  the 
physicians— a  chapter  of  great  interest—the  Atom- 
lata,  ttud  other  pioneers  of  Boiencef  ending  with  the 
fc>ot*hiat3  and  the  historians,  down  to  Thueydides» 
A  notable  pasaago  here  occurs  on  the  Intimate  use 
of  hypothesis  in  scientific  inveatigatioui  when  "  the 
golden  gaesi  is  morning  star  to  the  full  round  of 
troth/' Ior»  as  William  Blake  observed,  "what  i& 
now  proved  w'as  once  all  ima^^ined." 

A  valuable  mass  of  notes  aud  references  is  rele- 
gated to  the  end  of  the  volume*  We  coufesa  we 
prefer  the  older  method  of  eKhiblting  these  ne^es- 
i«kry  aids  at  the  foot  of  the  page.  It  may  detract 
from  the  typographical  ay  m  me  try,  but  it  is  much 
more  coovenieut  for  the  reader.  The  translator  has 
judiciooaly  furnished  a  provisional  index  to  the 
present  instalment.  The  second  volume^  which 
will  deal  mainly  with  the  iniF>ortaut  personalities 
of  Flato  and  Socrates,  wiU  appear  this  yfsar ;  and 
the  final  volume,  which  we  believe  is  still  in  the 
making,  will  follow  in  due  time.  Meanwhile  we 
have  onough  to  secure  our  hearty  commendation  of 
what  wilt  be  a  moa amenta!  work. 

B^egtytit^  rda^ing  to  Wales  ami  t?^€  Border  Counties. 

Vol.   VI.     1  Oswestry   and    Wrexham,    WoodaO 

&CoO 
Much  quaint  information  ia  buried  in  this  periodicalf 
which  haa  now  enjoved  a  life  longer  than  is  vouch- 
safed to  many  publications  of  its  class,  it  is, 
moreover,  useful  aa  a  work  of  reference  in  regara 
to  the  Principality  and  its  borders.  We  weloorae 
ite  prolonged  extsteuce,  and  should  have  nothing 
but  praise  for  it  if  it  would  rectify  the  error  in  its 
title. 

UotUU  it  Cb.,  Bankers^  EdmhuTgh   and  London, 

By  Ralph  RicbardM>n,  F.S.A.Soot.  (Stock.  ^ 
Bsi^fiE  a  ve&r  is  out  a  second  edition  of  Mr. 
Richardson  s  memoirs  of  the  CoutUfOS  has  been 
demanded.  It  bow  appears  in  an  enlarged  and 
amended  form,  and  wUl  doubtless  be  followed  by 
other  editions.  The  plates  are  the  same  as  before, 
and  the  volume  ia  in  all  respects  equal  to  its  pre- 
deceesor.  It  is  rather  deplorable,  however,  that  a 
mistake  in  the  letterpress  so  easily  remedied  as 
that  we  pointed  out  (see  9*^  S.  v.  5u7)  remains  un- 
correctea. 

We  have  received  the  third  volume  of  the  Ammul 
Transactions  of  ihe  United  Empirt  Loyalid»^  ^*«o- 
dalio/n^  issued  at  Toronto  from  the  Cburth  of 
England  Publishing  Company.  In  addition  to  intro- 
ductory matter  giving  the  constitution  and  by-laws, 
with  portriiits  and  memoirs  of  tbe  ofiicers  of  the 
institution^  the  book  fumiahes  various  historical 
Aod  biogrApM(^\  sketches.  Many  of  them  ^^n 
out  matter  Gon^ming  which  tbe  average  Eng- 
UshwAa  kaowM  vet^  mack  leu  than  Ilq  oujiku 


Lady  Dilke  supplies  an  account  of  Samuel  Strong 
and  the  Georgia  Loyalists.  How  many  people 
know,  we  wouaer,  how  loyal  a  state  w^aa  Geor^a ; 
and  how  it  was  recovered  from  tbe  insurgents^  into 
whose  hand  a  it  had  faUen ;  or  have  heard  of  the 
brilliant  defence  of  Savannah  against  the  allied 
"  Whigs'' and  French  t  Loss  of  pniparty  waa  not 
the  most  humiliating  experience  of  tbe  Strongs 
dnrina  tbe  rebellion,  though  that  was  heavy  enough* 
One  of  them,  who  was  credited  with  the  autborahip 
of  some  pamphlets  written  on  the  Government 
side,  was  ''  tarred  and  feathered  and  ridden  on  a 
rail."  The  loyalty  then  so  conspicuously  dispUyed 
still  characterizes  the  Strongs,  three  of  whom 
are  serving  iu  South  Africa.  Much  interesting 
information  concerning  the  Fairfaxes  is  comprised 
in  Lady  Di Ike's  valuable  contribution.  Other 
loyalists  of  whom  an  acconnt  ia  given  in^lndo  the 
Leeple  family,  of  Dutch  extraction,  whose  story  ii 
particularly  roumutic.  The  adventurea  of  the 
Merntta,  originally  De  Meriet,  are  told  by  MIm 
Catherine  Nma  Merritt.  of  Toronto,  Mr*  Edward 
Marion  Chad  wick  deab  with  the  Six  NatioD4 
Indians  as  United  Empire  Loyalists.  Mrs.  Char' 
lotto  Bruce  Carey  deaa  with  the  Bruce  family* 
Dr.  William  (Janniff  depicts  Adolpbuatown,  t£« 
first  set  tie  m  en  t  of  United  Empire  Lo^alista,  and 
Mr*  Walter  Rogers  tolls  tbe  story  of  bis  ancestors* 
suH'erings  for  cTie  oau^e.  It  ia  pleasant  to  !ind  » 
worthy  tribute  at  length  paid  to  the  steadfast  and 
heroic  sons  of  England,  whose  history  for  a  hundroA. 
years  has  been  fitrangely  neglected*  Many  of  ili^fc- 
incidents  recorded  are  eminently  stimulating:,  &n^9 
the  tale  of  suffering  of  the  founders  of  empire  i^K 
Canada  is  worthy  of  a  conspieuuus  plaoe  in  oc^^ 
history. 

We  must  coil  9pecicU  atlmtion  to   the  foUow^^m^ 

noticts .— 

Qn  all  communications  must  be  written  the  na.»^.^B 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necosaarily  for  p*^^c: 
lication,  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 
We  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  rri**ii1 —  — j 
To  secure  iDsertioQ  of  oommunioatioiifl  oor  ^^zl 
Bpoudent*  must  observe  the  following  rulea. 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  he  written  on  a  ranpiii  ^  i 
slip  of  jNiper^  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  j 

such  address  as  he  wishes  lo  a[]pe4ir.  When  ans^  v 
iog  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  prev~s=:^^o 
entries  in  the  pa(>er,  contribut4>rs  are  ni^nrntr  J  j 
put  in  parent neses,  immediately  after  the  i— ■  jj^ 
beading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  ^a^g^^^at  to 
which  they  refer.  Corresjion dents  who  t^^f^e^ 
queries  are  requested  to  bead  tbe  second  '^isoai- 
munication  '*  Dupboate." 

M.  N.  G.  Q*  Cicero  on  Augurs '^).  —  Here  km  tht 
reference :  "Vet  us  autem  illud  Cat-on  is  admodtia] 
scitum  est  qui  mirari  se  dicebat,  ijuod  non  rider&t 
haruBpex  harnapicom  quuni  vidisset "  (Cic,  '  PjV*  ,' 
ii,  24,  51  J. 

^QTtCK. 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  iddroMod  Co 
"The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries  ' ''—AdTWti^^^ 
ments  and  Business  Letters  to  **  The  Publisher  "^^ — 
at  the  Ulfioe,  Bream's  Buildiugs,  Chancery  Lantv  i.^-^> 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  deoliae  to  r*tiL*^ 

oommunications  whiok,  for  any  reason,  we  do  u-^^^^ 

WnnXi  \  wi  V>  tbia  rule  we  oan  make  no  e3toept4oa.^  -^ 


Vn.  March  30. 1901.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA, 


TURNjEUHfor  March  39  oo^taua  ArUeUt  on 

TNGHAM  on  M BDLEYAL  ud  MODBRN  B00MOMIC8. 

MAN  of  the  EIOHTKBNTH  CENTURY. 

!4Dof  BRUNSWICK. 

HI  and  BBYONU. 

lOKon  Che  CONSTITUTION. 

BUI  :-The  Church  of  HumanltT ;  Th«  Letaer  BtU  :  ThU 

f  imth;  Hooondrela  ft  Co.  t  Th«  RedempCloa   of  DftTid 

;  The  Shadow  of  Oilaland. 

KB. 


the  WAR. 

ART  TABLB-LI8T  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

DISCOVERED  DOCUHENTS  of  the  ELIZABETHAN  and 

BAN     PERIODS;      MR.    CHARLES    BUCKLAND ;     SIR 

RD      MALBT'S     'SHIPTINO    SCENES 'i      The    WORD 

L"}   SALE;  'YEOMANRY  or  MOUNTED  INFANTRY  ? ' 

PRINO  PUBLISHING  SEASON. 

Alm 
r  GOSSIP. 

-ABthropoIoffieal  Kotee ;  DUcotcit  of  the  Hawaiian  I 
f;  Early  PortufueM  TrareU;  The  Btymolorj  of 
I    Botanical    Terms;    Sooietlea;    Meetlags    Next  Week; 

rs— Mantegna ;  Mr.  ShaaBon'e  Woiic  at  the  Datch  Gallery ; 
rth  BnirraTioffs ;  Sale* ;  OoeelR. 

>palar  Conoerts ;  Herr  Saoer'e  Pianoforte  Reeital ;  Oo»«ip  ; 
■  Next  Week. 


lelf  '•  the  Man ;  Goesip. 

i  TUBNjKUMfoT  March  9  eontaitu  ArUeU$  on 

S  of  OLIVER  CROMWELL 

ITON  COLLINS  OB  ENGLISH  UTBRATURB. 

FABLE  m  PSYCHOLOGY. 

rSCHRIFT  to  DR.  FURNIVALL. 

ITBLS:— Anne   Mainwarinf;  A  Narrow  Wav;   A  Path  of 


;  Trewem ;  May  bilrer ; 


» Bma'f  Head ;  Hi*  Lordahip'e 


CHINA. 
fCB  LITBRATURB. 

PHILOLOOY. 

and  the  ARMY. 

LARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

..OF  FIGS";  SIR  HARRY  SMITH;  ARCHBISHOP SPOT- 

K)ll  and  FATHER  JOHN  OGILVIB ;  The  TROUBADOURS; 

CHARLES  "  of  HORACE  WALPOLB'S  "  TRIUMVIRATE  "  ) 

;  The  SPRING  PUBLISHING  SEASON. 


;  AttTODomlcal  Nolea 


Y  GOSSIP. 

-Llhr«ry  Fib'e;  Dr.  G.  M.  Daweon 

ee ;  MeettB««  Next  Week ;  Goesip. 

T8:— MorUmer  Meopes's  Impressions  of  the  War;  Water* 

■  at  Meeare.  Agaew's ;  Sir  G.  8.  Meaaom ;  Sales ;  Netaa  ttom 

iOoarip. 

The  Week ;  Goesip ;  Performances  Next  We^k. 

-Oosalp. 


The  A  THBNASUM  for  March  16  containa  ArticUi  on 

DR.  GARDINER'S  HISTORY. 

THE  ROMANCE  of  LAST  CENTURY. 

MR.  WRATI8LAW  on  MR.  SWINBURNE. 

BRISTOL  RECORDS. 

SELECTIONS  from  DR.  CREIGHTON*S  WRITINGS. 

NEW  NOVELS: -That  flweet  Enemy;  The  Lout  Land;  The  Sin   of 
Jasper  Staadlsh :  The  Glri  at  the  Halfway  House ;  Two  Sides  of 
Question ;  AoeordlBK  to  Plato ;  Naomi's  Exodus ;  The  Mayor  of 
Llttlejoy ;  The  Master  Pasaira ;  Days  of  Doubt. 

FRENCH  LITERATURE. 
SHORT  STORIES. 
SPORTS  and  PASTIMES. 
LAW  and  POLITIOS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKB. 
SIR  EDWARD  MALBTV  'SHIFTING  SCENES';  The  ROYAL  HIS 
TORIOAL   SOOUTY:    The    SPRING    PUBLISHING    aiAEOM  i 


LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE :— Life  Of  Sir  John  Fowler;   Oeorraphioal   Notea;  Aatra 
nomieal  Notes ;  Sodetiea ;  Meetlnira  Next  Week  t  Ooaeip. 

FINE  ART8:-The  Cretan  Script;  The  BIyth  BnffraTinga;    Sato; 
Goesip. 

MUSIC :— Tb«  Week ;  Goesip ;  Performances  Next  Weak. 

DRAMA :— The  Shakspeare  First  FOllo ,  Gossip. 


TU  ATHENMVM  for  March  8  contaiMs  Artidn  on 

¥aai9.  RHYS  OB  CELTIC  FOLK-LORE. 

SOME  SOLDIER  AUTOBIOGRAPHIES. 

The  INHABITANTS  Of  the  PHILIPPINES. 

M.  FRANCE'S  NEW  BOOK. 

The  MEANING  of  GOOD. 

NEW  NOVELS  :-The  Haered  Fouat ;  The  BeliovlBC  Blahop ;  Tte  Man 

who  Foivot ;  The  Tragedy  of  a  Pediffree. 
HISTORICAL  ROMANCES. 
ORIENTAL  LITERATURE. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 
MR.  F.  S.  ELLIR;  CAVIL;  llie  SPRING  PUBLISHING  SBABOMt 

BALE;  'HENRY  BARROW,  8BPABATI8T.' 

LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE  :—Oeorg«  Fraaeis  Fltigarald;   Physics  —^    t.-.^ilu, 

Aathropologlcal  Notes ;  AstroBomlcal  Notes;  Societies;  Meetlan 
Next  Week ;  Gossip.  ^ 

FINE  ARTO;— New  Publications;  The  BurlinftoA  lla«-Ana  Glab{ 

MUSIC :— TIM  Week ;  Goesip ;  Perfon 
DRAMA :— The  Week ;  Gossip. 


noes  Next  Weak. 


The  ATHENJEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
rOHN    C.     FRANCIS,    Athemeam    Office,    Bream's  Buildings,    ChancerY  L&ii«,  ^<(^. 

And  0/  aU  Nirffigtmta. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  [g«  b.  vn.  mabch  ao.  imi. 
A   SELECTION    FROM 

SMITH,  ELDER^jy]a;SJJBM      BOOKS. 
THE  NEW  BIOGRAPHICAL  EDITION  OF 

W.  M.  THACKERAY'S  WORKS. 

In  13  ToU.  large  orown  8to,  oloth.  gilt  to^  9t.  eaeh. 

This  New  and  Revised  Edition  comprises  additional  material  and  hitherto  unpublished 
Letters,  Sketches,  and  Drawings,  derhred  from  the  Author's  original  M8S.  and  Note- 
Books;  and  each  Volume  includes  a  Memoir  in  the  form  of  an  Introduction  by  Mrs. 
Richmond  Ritchie. 

*«*  THB  TUIBTBBN  YOLUMBS  ABB  ALSO  8UPPLIBD  IN  BBT  OLOTH  BINDING.  OILT  TOP,  3^.  18<. 
•«*  A  Proip§etiu  of  thg  Edition,  with  iip§eimml\tgm,wm  be  untpo$tfrMimapp^ 

OTHER  EDITIONS  OF  W.  M.  THACKERAY'S  WORKS. 

The  STANDARD  EDITION.      26  voIb.  large  Svo,  10«.  ed.  each.     This  Edition  oon- 

toint  toca»  of  Mr.  Ttaaekeny't  Writing!  whioh  have  not  been  previootly  ooUeoted.  with  many  addltiooal  Illnetrattooe. 
It  hat  been  printed  from  new  type  on  fine  paper,  and.  with  the  exception  of  the  Edition  de  Luxe,  It  b  the  largest 
and  handiomeet  edition  that  haa  been  pnblished. 

The  LIBRABT  EDITION.     24  vols,  large  crown  8yo,  handsomely  bound  in  cloth, 

9{. ;  or  half-niMia,  marbled  edget,  ISl.  13f .    With  lUottrationt  by  the  Author,  BJehard  Doyle,  and  Frederlcli  Walker. 
\*  The  Yolumee  are  told  leparately,  in  doth,  7«.  6tf.  eaoh. 

The  POPULAB  EDITION.     13  vols,  crown  8vo,  with  Frontispiece  to  eaoh  Volume, 

•carlet  oloth,  gilt  top,  3^.  6f. ;  or  half-morocco  gilt,  6^  lOf . 

*«*  The  Volumes  are  told  leparately,  in  green  oloth,  b».  each. 

CHEAPER    ILLUSTRATED    EDITION.      26  vols,  crown   8vo,  bound  in  cloth, 

il.  11«. ;  or  handsomely  bound  in  half -morocco,  Bl,  8«.  Oontalning  nearly  all  the  email  Woodcut  Illuetrationa  of  the 
former  Bditiont  and  many  new  Illuitrationt  by  eminent  Artltte. 

%*  The  Yolumee  are  told  teparately,  in  cloth,  8f .  6tf .  each. 

The  POCKET  EDITION.     27  vols,  bound  in  cloth,  with  gilt  top,  U.  6d.  each ;  or  U. 

in  paper  cover. 

•«•  The  Volumes  are  alao  tuppUed  at  followt :— 

The  NOVELS.    13  vols,  in  gold-lettered  t  The  MISCELLANIES.     14  vols,  in  gold- 
cloth case,  ai«.  I        lettered  doth  case,  2U. 

THB  "HAWOBTH"  BDITION  OF  THB 

LIFE  AND  WORKS  OF  THE  SISTERS  BRONTE. 

In  7  Tolt.  large  crown  8to,  oloth,  gilt  top,  6«.  each ;  or  in  Set  doth  binding,  gilt  top,  21, 3».  the  Set. 

With  FortraiU  and  lUuttrationt.  Including  Viewt  of  Placet  detcribed  in  the  Wcrkt,  reproduced  tnm  Photograpb* 
•pedally  talcen  for  the  purpoee  by  Mr.  W.  B.  Bland,  of  DuAeld,  Derby,  in  conjunction  with  Mr.  O.  Barrow  Keene,  ol 
Derby,  MedalltU  of  the  Boyal  Photographic  Sodety.  Introductions  to  the  Works  are  tupplied  by  Mrs.  HUMPHBY 
WABD,  and  an  Introduction  and  Notet  to  Mrt.  QMkeU't  *  Ufe  of  Charlotte  BrontS*  by  Mr.  CLBMBVT  K.  8HOBTBB. 
the  eminent  Bronti  authority. 

*«*  AUo  the  LIBBABY  BDITION,  7  volt.,  each  containing  6  lUuttrationa,  large  crown  8vo,  &r.  each.  The  POPULAB 
BDITION,  7  volt,  email  pott  8yo,  Ump  cloth,  or  doth  boards,  gilt  top,  2$.  6cf.  each.  And  the  POOKBT  BDITION,  7  voU. 
■mall  foap.  8vo,  eaoh  with  Frontispiece,  bound  in  doth,  with  gilt  top,  It.  6cf.  per  Volume ;  or  the  Set,  in  gold-Iettored  doCh 
case,  ia«.  etL  * 

ROBERT  BROWNING'S  COMPLETE  WORKS.    Cheaper  Edition.    Editeii^ 

and  Annotated  by  AUOU8TINB  BIBBBLL,  K.O.  M.P.,  and  FBBDBBIC  G.  KBNYON.    2  vole,  laige  crown  6n^   ^ 
bound  in  doth,  gilt  top,  with  a  Portrait-Frontispiece  to  eaoh  Volume,  7«.  6cf._per  vol. 

»•*  Also  the  UNIFOKM  BDITION  of  BOBBBT  BBOWNING'S  YfOBXB,  in  17  toIs.  crown  8n>, 
bound  in  SeU,  U,  b». ;  or  the  Volumes  bound  separately,  &r.  each. 

ELIZABETH  BARRETT  BROWNINa'S  POETICAL  WORKS.    Cheapen- 

Bdition.     1  vol.  with  Portrait  and  a  Facsimile  of  the  MS.  of  *  A  Sonnet  from  the  Portuguese,*  large  crown  >v 
bound  in  oloth,  gilt  top,  7«.  (hf. 

%•  Also  the  UNIFOBM  EDITION,  in  tf  vols,  small  crown  8vo,  bt.  each.    This  BdiUon  contains  5  PbrtraiU  of 
Mrs.  Browning  at  different  periods  of  life,  and  a  few  Illnstratlons. 

MISS  THACEERAT'S  WORKS.  Unifonn  Edition.  Each  Volume  illnstrat^s 

by  a  Vignette  Title-Page.    10  vols,  large  crown  8to,  6«.  each. 

London  :  SMITH,  ELDER  k<X}.  15,  Waterloo  Place,  &W. 


maled  tr  JOON  BDWARD  FBAMCIS.  Ath«a»Mk1^T«M.lMUB*%%tSaA&M^ChsyMerf  Leas.  I.e.  i  ead  PeMlsbeMf 


NOTES   AND   QUERIES: 

'^  yUMttm  tti  gnurtommumation 


POB 


LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


*Wlien  found,  make  a  note  o&'*— ^yAPTAiM  Cuttlh. 


No.  171.  [JL'a  Saturday,  Apbil  6,  1901.  { JUSZl^^JT.^. 

OXFORD    UNIVERSITY    PRESS, 

The  COMPLETE  WORKS  of  JOHN   OOWEB.    Edited  from  the  MSS., 

with  IntroducUoDJB,  Notes,  and  Qlossaries  by  Q.  C.  liACAULAY,  formerly  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 
Vol.    II.    CONFBSSIO  AMANTIS.    Prol.-Lib.  V.  1970. 
Vol.  III.    CONFBSSIO  AMANTIS.    Lib.  V.  1971-Lib.  VIIL  and  In  PRAISB  of  PBACB.  iShorUy. 

The  ALFRED  JEWEL.    An  Historical  Essay  by  John  Earle,  VLA.  LLD., 

Rector  of  Swanswick.  Prebendary  of  WelU,  Bawlinaon  Professor  of  AngIo>Sazon  in  the  University  of  Oxford. 
With  IllustraUons  and  Map.    SmalUto.  [ShorUy, 

OLD-ENGLISH   GLOSSES.    Chiefly  UnpubUshed.    ANECDOTA  OXON* 

IBN8IA.    Series  IV.  Part  XL    Bdited  by  ARTHUR  S.  NAPIBR,  M.A.  Ph.D.     Small  4to.  paper  covers,  Ibt. ; 
doth.  17«.  9d. 

The  PILaBIM'S  PBOORESS,  GRACE  ABOUNDING,  RELATION  of  the 

IMPRISONMBNT  of  Mr.  JOHN  BUNYAN.    Bdited,  with  Biographical  Introduction  and  Notes,  by  B.  VBNABLBS, 
M.A.    New  Revised  BdiUon.    Crown  8vo,  with  Portrait,  39.  (M. 

HARLOWE'S  TRAGICAL  BISTORT  of  DR.  FAUSTUS,  and  GREENE'S 

HONOURABLB  HISTORY  of  FRIAR  BACON  and  FRIAR  BUNQAY.    Bdited  by  A.  W.  WARD.  Litt.D.    Fourth 
Bditkm,  Revised  and  Bnlarged.    Crown  8vo,  <W.  6d. 

An  ENGLISB   MISCELLANT  PBESENTED  to  DR.  FURNIVALL  in 

HONOUR  of  his  SBVBNTY-FIFTH  BIRTHDAY.    Containing  Contributions  from  Fifty  Scholars.    With  Portrait 
of  Dr.  Fumivall  and  10  Plates.    Demy  8vo,  cloth  extra,  gilt  top,  3U. 

CELTIC  FOLK-LOBE :  Welsh  and  Manx.    By  John  Bhys,  M.A.,  Principal 

of  Jetu*  College,  OxCord.    3  vola.  8vo,  cloth,  2U. 

STUDIES  in  the  ABTHUBIAN  LEGEND.    By  the  Same  Author.    8vo, 
BiOHDAD  DUBINO  the  ABBASD)  CALIPHATE.    From  Contemporary 

Anbic  uld  PenUn  Sources.    By  a.  LB  STKANOB.    8vo,  gilt  top,  bucknm,  with  8  Plana  (and  Keys),  l«t.  net. 


A  NEW    ENGLISB    DICTIONARY   on    BISTORICAL    PRINCIPLES, 

FOUNDBD  MAINLY  on  the  MATBRIALS  COLLBCTBD  by  the  PHILOLOGICAL  SOCIBTY.     Imperial  Ito. 
Bdited  by  Dr.  J.  A  H.  MURRAY  and  Mr.  HBNRY  BRADLBY. 

Single  Section,  L-Lap  (oommendng  Vol.  VI.).  2s.  «d.    By  Mr.  HBNRY  BRADLBY. 


%*    COMPLETE   C ATA  LOO  C/E  pott  free  on  application. 


London:  HBNRY  FKOWDB, ^Oxford  Univerdity  Preas  WaiehouM,  kmQuCom&x.^.^. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9^s.vii.  April  6,1901. 


BOOKS,  M88.,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  & 
CO..  Auctioneen  of  Book*  and  Uterair  Property  of  erery 
detcrlptloB.  Libraries  and  tmaller  OoUecUoBS  carefully  Uatalogiwd 
and  promptly  oflhred  lor  Sale  Fackinir  and  RemoTal  arraaged  for. 
Valvatloat  made  for  Probate  or  other  porpoeea.  Anction  Roome,  115, 
Ohaaoery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end ).    BatablUhed  1809 


M 


JUST  PUBLI8MBD.  Part  IV.  Vol.  IV.  Third  Sertet.  price  2«.  M. 

ISCBLLANBA      GENEALOGICA 


ET  HBRALDICA. 
With  OonflmiatioB  of  Arnie  and  Crest  to  Meary  Draper,  of  Colbrooke. 
Middlesex,  1571.  and  BnjrraYlnff :  alto  Pedigree  of  Ookayne,  with  Two 
Facsimile  Antographs,  4c. 

London  :  MITCHELL  A  HUOHB8. 140,  Wardour  Street,  W. 


M 


MARCH  MUMBBB  NOW  RBADT. 

RING'S        QUARTERLY. 

An  lUnstiated  Joomal  devoted  to  Art,  Archawloffy  and 

Heraldry. 

Price  1$.  i  by  poet,  U.  Sd.    No.  XYII.  commences  a  New  Series. 

FRBNCH  ART  of  the  PAST  at  the  PARIS  EXHIBITION.    lUnstrated. 

The  ROMAN  CAMP  at  BIRDOS  WALD.    Dlnstrated. 

OLD-WORLD  NAMB-PUNNINO. 

NOTES  oa  EXTRA-PAROCHIAL  REGISTERS. 

The  "NEW  OBNEALOOY." 

The  DE  LA  MORE  PRESS,  53,  High  Holbom.  London,  W.C. 


A  THBNiEUM     PRESS.— JOHN     EDWARD 


FRANCIS.  Printer  of  the  AUunmum,  NoUm  and  Qmn$$,  4to..  is 
preparad  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  all  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEWS. 
^PERIODICAL  PRINTING.— IS.  Bream's  BoUdinffs,  Chaaeery 
Laae.  E.C. 


STICKPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Gam  for  stiekinff  in  Scraps,  Joining  Papers,  *e.  M.  aad  1«.  with 
strong,  asetvl  Brash  (not  a  Toy).  Send  two  stamps  to  cover  postage 
tor  a  sample  Bottle,  inelading  Bnuh.  Factory.  Sugar  Loaf  Oonrt, 
LaadeahalTstreet,  B.O.    Of  aU  Stattdaers.    Stlekphast  Paste  sUeks. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— SUGAK— TEA 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C 

SCHWEPPES  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  Intemattoaal 
ExhiUaoa,  Paris,  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda. 

THESE  WATERS  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  acentury. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 

/  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:—  ) 
\  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN, } 
t  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  ) 

SoHWBFFES,  LTD.,  LONDON,  Malvern, 

OLABOOW,  LtVMBPOOL,  BHUTOL,  8YOMBT.  had  MELBOVRMm. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 
to  NOTES  AND  QUERIES  free  by  post  Is  10«.  M.  for  Six  Meiaths ; 
or  20«.  M.  for  Twelre  Months,  ineludlag  the  Volume  Index.— JOHN  C 
FBANCIS,  XoUt  and  Qveriet  Otbrn,  Bream's  BuUdinffs,  Cteaeory  Laae. 

F ENGLISH  MIDDLE-GLASS  FAMILIES, 
i  A..V.  15SO-1800 -Cnllaotor  of  Pedifrees  and  Padicree  BTUcaes 
iBTltes  Inqalries— Address  HBCORD  AOBMT.  flO,  Baaeroll  Bead, 
Brookley,  London.  6.E. 

LITERARY  and  TECBNICAL  TRANSLATION 
from  French  or  German  undertaken  by  F&BDBIUCK  WHAKION 
MAKRIOTT.  Eaq,  late  Of  the  Indian  Kevenae  Serriee.  ST.  Oateacs 
Parade,  Sonthsea.— Terms  on  applieation. 


c 


^ULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

for  Searehes  and  Authentie  lafonaatioB  raapaeilac 

ARMORIAL    BEARINGS   AND  FAMILY    DB8CBMT8. 

with  a  Separate  Departmeat  for  the  Attistte  ProdaeliM  9t 

HERALDIC  PAINTING  AND  BNGRAVINO. 

Book-PUtee,  Seals.  Dies,  Si«net  Rinfs.  Ur 


Paper,  Vlsitiaff  aad  Urltatloa 


IterrBattt 
loaOarda. 


n.  PICCAUILLT,  LONDON  (opposite  the  Oraaa  Park). 

KUDYARD  KIPLING,  Collectioo  of  12  vols.. 
First  Editions  niee  as  new.  orlglaal  doth  gite.  BteKala.  M. 
100  TOls.  of  Tales.  TrnvaU.  Blofraphles.  *e..  aU  teoad  aaTSwd. 
36«..  eost about  2(N. -LOWE'S  BOOKSHOP.  Now  Street.  Elratl^ikam. 

BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  wp- 
pUed,  no  matter  on  what  Subjeet.  Acknowledged  the  warM  aver 
as  the  most  expert  Bookflnders  sxtaat.  Pleass  luta  wanta.— EAJKERV 
Great  Bookshop,  14-16.  John  Bright  Street.  T'     '     ' 


G. 


AGENCY  FOR  AMBRIOAM  BOOKS. 

P.    PUTNAM'S  SONS,   PUBLISHERS  and 

BOOKSELLERS. 

of  n  and  ».  West  SSrd  Street.  New  York,  aad  24,  BEDFORD  STREST. 
LONDON.  W.C,  desire  to  caU  the  atteatloa  of  ttaa  RRADDIO 
PUBLIC  to  th«  exosllsat  taeilitiss  presented  by  their  Braaeh  Haass  la 
London  for  flllinir,  oa  th«  most  fsronrable  terms,  ordars  for  thstr 
own  STANDARD  PUBLICATIONS,  and  for  ALL  AMERICAN 
BOOKS. 

Oataloffues  sent  on  appliestloa. 

EXCHANGE  (or  would  SUB-LET)  for  THREE 
MONTHS,  a  HOUSE  in  Sonth-West  Suburb  (851.  raatal)  for  a 
Residence  in  the  Coantrj,  or  Seaside.— Apply  F.,  Atheiueum  Press, 
Bream's  BuUdiaffs,  E.C. 

a^HE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPKR-PAD. 
.    (The  LEADEN  HALL  PRESS.  Ltd.,  Pnblishan  aad  Printers. 

M.  LsMieahall  Street.  Loadoa,  E.O.  j 
Contaias  hairlsse  paper,  over  whleh   tha   pen   slips  with   pertsst 
treeaom.    SIxpsaes  each.    is.  por  doiaa.  rated  ar  plain.    New  Pasfcet 
Else.  U.  per  dosen,  ruled  or  pUun. 

Author*  should  note  that  The  LsadaahaU  Press,  Ltd..  caaaot  be 
raspoaalble  lor  ths  loss  of  MSS  by  lire  or  otherwise.  DaplieeM  coaM 
should  b*  ratainsd 

NOW  READY,  SECOND  EDmON.  REVISED  and  BNLARORU. 

'PHE    PENNY    CHRONOLOGY:    a    Series    of 

I  Important  Dates  in  the  HUtory  of  the  Worid  from  tha  BalffB  af 
narid  to  the  Present  Time.    Second  Bdltton.    By  W.  T.  LYNNTRA. 

G.  STONEMAN.  80,  Warwick  Lane,  E.C. 


F.R.A^S. 


Seeoad  Editloa,  pnos  Fourpaaca. 

ORIEF      LESSONS       in       ASTRONOMY. 


By  W.  T.  LYNN.  BA   F.R.A.B. 

lat  deal  of  InformaUen  wltiioat  b«i 
tHHBk  Jf  sreNTt . 

G.  STONEMAN.  W.  Warwleii  Lane,  E.C. 


"  OouTeys  «  arsat  deal  of  InformaUen  wltiioat  baiaa  la  nay  w«y  dry 
ortaohaieal  "—Ktnttak  Jftrettrt. 


TENTH  EDITION,  price  Two  Shlllinffa. 

pELESTIAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    ol 

\J    Astronomy.    Tenth  Edition.    With  S  Plates.    By  W.  T.  LYNN 
B.A.  F.R.A.8. 

"  Has.  we  are  clad  to  see.  reached  a  alath  edItioB,  whleh  eaahlee  thL. 
excellent  Introduction  to  the  fseta  of  astroaomy  to  be  hreufht  ap  ii« 
date."— ChMrdtaM 


&AMPSOM  LOW  *  00.  St.  1 


I'i  Boaaa,  FMnr  LiM»  ■.& 


9^  s.  viL  Apeil  6. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


261 


U&NDOK  SATVBDAr,  APRIL  €,  mh 


CONTENTS. -No,  171. 
KOTBSi^Speiuer,  "LocHtie^*  and  'Selimus/  361  —  Verbi 
formecl  out  of  proper  Niraes,  2H»-Go€k1  VtidAf  and 
Piriley— BibUogrfiphy  of  Kaater— *' Lt-  Hoy  lo  v&iiU"— 
*Tbe  Piiuriio"*  Proijrifjs*;  First  RUtifm,  ^i*4— WeUing- 
too'i  Ccnatifl  Pi.pe'r— A  Legifrid  of  Mu^i^intoti,  Derby sblTi! 
—  Tvr«aUetli-Genturj  Medal  ^  Mrt.  tl  runt  of  L&egAQ  — 
Uoited  BtmH^  Flajf— SinKinK  Ui  Chiircli,  liiJS-Tbe  Can* 
nllMllcm  of  Blhnc  tils'  Dr^ul— t<(>C4l  N^nifi  lor  Oeatlpcdefl 
^jmp&ilieUG  MJiglo— ''  Dcvil'd  brotti,"  3tk5, 

Q1IBBI1CS^-W««kei:  OatUij  t  BrocM  — ApparltloB.  S6J — 
ThB  Friend  of  Pbldl**^"  8<id-Widow  "-BMkinii-HMdi 
fa  Sou^uun  Cbureh— Powdering  Qowix— Caesar  nnd  Pora- 
per — LrtOiiiiOQ  of  Ttje»tre  —  C&Uitirlnc  Street  Tbeatre— 
^h*  D«vU'b  Walk  *— Joan  cd  Are— John  Eoberiy*— K'>ya] 
St*nd*rrf,  36§  -''  Tb^re.  but  for  the  grac*  of  Ood  "— First 
Kliitoti  of  the  'Pilgrim's  Pnogreai '— tto3?»l  SurmiDie- 
Sir  CoroeMus  t3ole — *'  Hnlf  rat  and  ball  vveasel "— Liata  of 
Grwtiiatea— '*  Tli^  Gogelier^  ''—Ranlc  Iiiaarlptloii  found  J  a 
Si,  Paul's  Churebyard-^ir  C^  Scudamorc— GoLlet,  m&. 

BBPLl^ :  —The  late  lira.  BverettrGreen— "  aajwn  SUmei*" 
270  —  SurtiUQi'S  —  St.  Patripk's  D«iy-%^ulgaLr  Ml«Ui«  of 
"Bight"—*'  Hulcblnc  aUiul^"  ^71— Tlfifalwime  Family— 
Haiii«'»  Ptiri rnit  —  Jolui  Parr,  Maynr  —  *'  WabbHug  "  — 
**  Flaboea,*'  a  Qbostrword,  27 S— Din  MArria|(e  Outtutu  la 
Toriiliire— Tofriu!  which  hiv«;  chwigp*!  their  Stiea,  273— 
JieMi6  v^  d^lwyn — Stanbtiry  of  Devon  and  QomwaU  — 
Hadamft  BontetDl^-Bev.  /.  11.  St«w4i^t— Lay  Cjinon— 
" Manuranw "—9t  Clement  Danc<&.  ST4—*' Mary's  Chap- 
pel  "—*  Book- Worlds"  -176  — Hay  watar— '■  Kyboflh,'*  376- 
**  Become  "— D'Auvergne  Family —Authorn  of  Bcmka,  371 
— Lcmduia  Charcbe«t  37i*. 

ICMTSS  OH  BOOKS :-St.  OUlc*!  'Myths  of  Greece'  — 
Dnper's  *  Alfred  the  Orwt  *— Berlewi  mud  Mifmslnes. 

noiloea  tD  Oorrespotideliti. 


EDMUND  SPENSER,  *  iOCEINE^'  AND 
'SELlMUa* 

{Conlhmed  fnmip.  S05.) 
Ik  '1  Tambarkme,'  IT.  iii.,  Djce,  p.  28, 
coL  %  the  Soldan  compares  himself  to  a  pilot  in 
the  h&ven^  viewing  a  strange  ^hip  rent  in  the 
winds  and  shivered  against  the  craggy  rocka  ; 
ind  he  follows  up  his  metaphor  by  the  re^is- 
tfition  of  a  vow,  confirmed  with  holy  Ibis's 
aame.  The  figure  and  the  vow  vvere  sug- 
psted  by  the  folio wiog  stanzas  from  *The 
Faem  Queenej*  which  are  boldly  copied,  yet 
srfaiirably  varied,  in  *  Selimus':^ 

Brihmarl  {vietcini^  th€  raging  iJea),  Huge  sea  of 
Borrow  atid  t^mrMjetuoua  grief c, 
Wberein  my  feeble  Wrke  la  to«fted  long 
Jar  from  t  ho  hupod  haven  of  reliofCf 
Jj'  J^iy  (itjtf  thy  cruel  billoweo  beat  bo  a  trough 
Anil  thy  moyst  rnoatiLaines  each  on  others  tbroog^ 
1-  breatning  to  swallow  ii|>  my  fea^refull  lyfe  ? 
Vi  I '^  thy  eniell  wrath  and  Bpightfnll  wrong 
^At  jengtb  allay,  and  itint  thy  atormy  strifo, 
°^<^  in  these  troabled  bowelk  raignes  and  n 
ryfet 

^^  eU  my  feeble  veee^U,  craxd  and  oraokt 
n^f^Ugh  thy  tttronj*  bniTetsancf  ontrageou^i  blower, 
oS  1^^  endure,  but  needes  it  must  \w.  wrackt 
™  ^<^  roHgb  rodb%  gr  os  the  aandy  ah^owm. 


i  ragetb 


Tbe  whilefl  that  Love  ft  eterea,  and  Fortune  rowes : 
Love  J  my  lewd  fjilott,  hath  a  restlease  minde  ; 
And  Fortune,  boteswaine,  no  nsguraunce  knowes ; 
But  saile  withaaten  stairrea  gainst  tyde and  winde : 
How  can  they  other  doe,  ailh  both  are  bold  and 
blinde  I 

Tbou  god  of  wlndefi^  that  rai^^eet  in  the  seas, 

That  rai^Qcat  ako  in  the  continent» 

At  ladit  blow  up  aonie  gentle  gale  of  ease, 

Tbe  whiuh  may  bnng  njy  eihipt  ere  it  be  rent. 

Unto  the  ffludsome  iwrt  of  her  intent ! 

Then,  when  1  shall  myaelfe  in  safety  see, 

A  table,  for  ct^roall  mouimcot 

Of  thy  groat  giace  and  my  great  ieupardee, 

t4tTL*at  Noptnne,  I  vow  to  hallow  unt4j  thee ! 

Book  HI.  canto  i\\  stanzas  viii.-x. 

Compare  :^ 

^oy.  You  swelling  beaii  of  never-eeasing  care, 
Whose  waves  my  weather-beaten  ship  do  toss : 
Your  boiatrous  billows  too  UDruly  are, 
And  threaten  a  til!  my  niin  and  my  loss ; 
Like  bugy  mountaine  do  your  waters  rear 
Tbcir  loity  tops,  and  my  weak  veiisel  cross. 
Alaa  \  at  length  allay  your  «tormy  strife  ; 
And  cruel  wrath  within  me  raging  rife. 
Or  else  my  feeble  bark  cannot  cndnro, 
Yonr  tlaHhiug  buffets  and  outrageous  blows: 
But  while  thy  foamy  flood  doth  il  immure, 
Kball  soon  be  wrecked  u)>on  the  saudy  shallows. 
Grief,  my  lewd  boat-swain,  stirreth  nothing  sure, 
But  without  star*  Against  tide  and  wind  he  rows, 
And  carea  not  though  upon  Borne  rock  we  split : 
A  reatless  i>ilot  for  the  charge  unfit. 
But  out  alas,  the  god  that  rules  the  aeas, 
And  can  alone  thiB  raging  tempe«t  stent, 
Will  never  blow  a  gentle  gale  of  ease, 
But  suffer  my  poor  vessel  to  be  rent, 

\Selimu3,' U.  1761-80. 

Ivest  it  should  be  imagined  that  the  author 
of  ^Tamburlaine'  would  not  avail  himself  of 
such  lengthy  passages  from  Spenser,  I  will 
prove  that  he  did   so.     Dyce  noticed  the 
repetition  by  Marlowe  of  one  of  the  stanzas 
that  I  shall  adduce— the  first  one ;  but  he 
overlcjoked  the  fact  that  the  continuation  of 
the  speech  in  ^  Tamburlaine '  is  a  free  imita- 
tion of  another  part  of  *  The  Faerie  Queene*: 
Upon  the  top  of  all  his  laftie  crest , 
A  bounch  of  heares  discolonrd  divorsly. 
With  sprint  led  jtearle  and  gold  full  richly  drest, 
Did  shake,  and  secmd  to  dauuce  for  iollity ; 
Like  to  an  almond  tree  y mounted  hye 
On  top  of  greene  SeliniJi  all  alone. 
With  olosaoms  brave  bedecked  daintily ; 
Whose  tender  locks  do  tremble  every  one 
At  everie  little  breath,  that  under  heaven  is  blowne. 
Book  I.  canto  vii,  stanza  xxxii. 

So  forth  she  comoa,  and  to  her  eoche  does  clyrae. 
Adorned  all  with  gold  and  girlonds  gay, 
That  fieenid  as  fresh  as  Flora  in  her  prime ; 
And  strove  to  match,  in  roiall  rioh  array, 
Great  lunoea  golden  cbayre  ;  the  which,  they  say, 
Tile  gods  stand  gazing  on,  when  f^he  does  ride 
To  loves  high  hows  through  heavens  bras-paved 

way, 
Drawne  of  fayre  pecoekss  that  excell  in.  ^MvAa.^ 
And  full  of  Aqius  ^ye^  lKe\t  \.?w^\<ia  <\\»p'N!^'&xi'v\.^^« 


262 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     cih^8.vilapril6,19ol 


In  Marlowe  thus  :— 

Tarr^,  I  Ul  ride  ia  golden  armour  like  the  auti ; 
And  in  my  helm  a  triplo  pltiaie  aha-ll  aprin^, 
Spfttigled  witb  diamonds ^  dancing  in  the  air, 
To  oote  me  Hmperor  of  the  three-fDld  world  ; 
Like  to  an  almond -tree  y- mounted  high 
Upon  the  lofty  and  celestial  moant 
Of  ever*Kreen  B^Unus,  quaintly  deck'd 
With  blEKime  more  white  than  Eryeina's  brows, 
Whoae  tender  bloaaoms  tremble  every  one 
At  every  little  breath   that   thorough  heaven  is 

bloHrn. 
Then  in  my  eoaeh,  like  Satuni*a  royal  son 
Mounted  hia  shining  chariot  |a:ilt  with  firei 
And  drawn  with  princely  taden  through  the  path 
Fav'd  with  bright  crystal  iina  eni-baa\i  with  stars, 
When  all  the  gotls  atknd  ga/ring  at  hi^  pomp, 
So  will  1  ride  through  Hanmrcanda  streets. 

*2  TamburlaintJ,'  IV.  iij.  p.  66,  cola.  1,  2. 

8o  much  ha^  been  attributed  to  Marlowe, 
who  lived  but  thirty  years,  that  it  may  bo 
aiiked,  How  much  more  ?  My  answer  h  that 
1  only  claim  'Sali  urns'  foi*  hi  as,  in  addition  to 
the  plays  and  poema  in  Dyce-  Not  only  so  : 
I  aas^ert  that  Marlowe  had  tio  hand  in  'Titus 
Andronicus*  or  the  various  veraions  of 
*  Henry  TL' ,'  and  I  am  prepared  to  prove 
my  assertion.  In  the^e  tiramas  Marlowe  is 
merely  copied  by  Shakespeare,  who  is  their 
sole  author, 

'  Selimus '  ha^  all  the  appearance  of  bemf; 
an  older  play  than  *  Tamburlaine/  and  there- 
fore it  seems  to  be  the  eldest  of  Marlowe's 
works.  The  construction  **  for  to  "  with  an 
infinitive  occurs  in  *  Selimus  *  no  fewer  than 
thirteen  times,  and  so\'eral  times  the  play  has 
"  for  "  in  the  sense  of  "  because/' and  other  bits 
of  a  phrasing  that  wa»  fast  dying  out.  This 
phraatug  occurs  but  rarely  in  Marlowe's 
other  work,  but  it  is  extremely  common  in 
Spenser,  whom  the  author  of  the  play  imi- 
tates throughout.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  some 
of  these  turns  of  expression  in  ^Selimus' 
can  be  proved  to  have  been  taken  direct 
from  '  The  Faerie  Queene/ 

Like  '1  Tamburlaine/  *  Soli  rails'  was 
written  with  an  eye  to  continuation,  and 
the  remainder  of  the  play  was  to  follow, 
provided  that  Part  L  pleased  the  **  Gentles, '^ 
But  the  **  Gentles"  apparently  were  not 
pleaaed,  for  nobody  has  ever  heard  of  '  Seli- 
mus/  Part  II,  The  author's  own  words  in 
his  Prologue  to  Part  II.  of  '  Tamburlaine '  are 
worth  noting  in  this  connexion,  as  they  show 
clearly  that  this  portion  of  his  great  drama 
would  not  have  been  written  if  t!io  public 
had  Avithheld  their  approval  from  Part  I,  ;— 

The  general  welcomes  Tanjburlatiie  receiv'd^ 
When  be  arrivetl  last  tiiion  the  stage, 
Ilar€  tfiwie  oar  aiUkof  pcu  kin  Steomi  Ptirt. 

It  in  possible^  then,  that  the  first  part  of 
'iSelimus '  proved  to  be  a  bad  ventuv^v  and 


that  Marlowe  resolved  to  change  his  subject 
to  one  presenting  similar  aspects  and  capable 
of  treatment  on  sirailar  lines.  In  *  Tambur- 
laine' we  find  such  a  subject,  and  a  treat- 
ment that  is  identical  in  all  its  features  with 
that  displayed  in  *Selimus,'  even  to  the 
minutest  bits  of  phrasing. 

The  author  of  '8elimus  was  well  acquainted 
with  the  life-story  of  the  Scythian  shepherd, 
whom  he  mentions  three  times  in  his  play. 
Each  time  that  he  alludes  to  Tamburlaine,  he 
alludes  to  him  in  terms  that  instantly  recall 
'  Tamburlaine '  :— 
For  Tamberlaine  the  scourge  of  nations. 

SpruDff  from  great  Tamberlaine  the  Hoytbi&n  thiof. 

'  .SelimuB,'  U,  17M,  i4m 
Marlowe  thus  :— 

Of  Tamburlaine,  that  sturdy  ^Scythian  thief. 

M  Tamb.,U,  i.  y,  7,  col  1 
The  acum  of  men,  the  hate  and  acourjE*  of  God, 

My  lord,  it  it  the  bloody  Tamburlaine, 

A  sturdy  felon,  and  a  base-bred  thief. 

*  I  Tamb,,'  IV,  iii,  p.  2t,  col.  1, 

The  ^  Selimus '  Bajazet  is,  as  I  have  shown, 
a^ssociated  in  the  play  with  his  namesake  of 

*  Tamburlaino' ;  nor  does  it  forget  to  make  a 
passing  allusion  to  Usumcasane^  one  of  Tam- 
burlaine's  devoted  followers.  In  fact^  outside 
myth  and  fable,  and  barring  references  to 
personages  directly  concernea  with  the  play, 

*  Selimus '  makes  allusions  to  only  six  histori- 
cal names  :  Cons  tan  tine,  Mahomet,  the  great 
Sultan  Ottoman  (the  founder  of  the  Ottoman 
dynasty),  Bajaz.et,  Tamburlaine,  and  Usum- 
casane.  The  last  three,  of  course,  have  been 
made  immortal  by  Marlowe.  Prester  John, 
too,  is  mentionerl  in  *  Selimus^  as  well  as 
in  'Tamburlaine,'  but  he  must  be  classed 
amongst  the  myths.  Yet  these  aUnsions  in 
^  Selimus '  show  that  the  author  would  not 
experience  much  trouble  in  passing  from  ood 
subject  to  the  other. 

Tne  Uoaclusiou  of    *  Selimus*    is  neithe«r 
more  nor  less  than  a  forecast  of  'Tarn bur  — 
laine,'  expressed  in  terms  identical  with  thos^s 
employed  in  the  lattor  :— 

Thus  have  we  brought  victonoua  Selimui 

Unto  thfs  crown  of  great  Arabia  i 

Next*  shall  you  aee  hint  with  triumphant  sword 

Dividing  kingdoms  into  e^ual  shares, 

And  give  them  to  his  warlike  folio  we  rs, 

y.  2568-70- 

The  Prologue  to  '  1  Tamburlaine  '  promis«^» 
the  spectacle  of  Tamburlaine 

SSconrging  kingdoms  with  his  conquering  sword* 

and  in  ^several  places  the  play  exhibits  ti'tic 

Scythian  conqueror  dinding  kingdoms  into 

equal  shares  and  giving  them  to  bis  warlilre 

'^toVV^^fticii,    (See  Dyce^  p,  10,  coL  l,  and  &l^e- 


9»s.viLApRn,6.i90i.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


268 


where.)  "Great  Arabia"  h  'Taraburlaine* 
phraseology,  and  the  promiHe  of  the  'Selimua^ 
Conclu«ion  is,  if  I  mistake  not^  UirectJy  a^jso- 
datad  bj  the  author  with  the  sfieech  he  puts 
into  Tarohurlaine's  nioiath  when  that  con- 
queror adUreiiHea  his  ^ictorioua  generals  *— 
But*  rmlile  lord  of  t/trtat  Arttftia. 

'  1  Tamk/  IV.  iii.  i^  2B,  col.  1 
Tomb.  And  fioWi  my  lords  and  loviri||j  folkrwera, 
That  piirchaflM  kingdomB  by  your  martial  deerla* 
Cast  off  your  armour,  iiut  nti  your  scarlet  robefi, 
Mount  up  your  royal  plaeea  of  eatate,  &c. 

'  1  Tamb,/  V,  u.,  pp.  37- H. 

Theae  circumatancea  tell  in  favour  of  the 
priority  of  '  Selimua  *  over  '  Tamburlaine,'  and 
are  worthy  of  consideration.  Moreover,  the 
strange  words  of  Spenser  and  his  i>eculiar 
phiuseolo^y  are  more  prevalent  in  'belimu."^' 
than  in  'Tamburlaine,  and  I  conclude.,  there- 
forei,  that  Marlowe  in  the  latter  play  was 
gradually  drawing  away  fmm  his  master, 
although  still  greatly  under  his  influence.  A 
young  writer  would  more  doady  imitate  hia 
tnaster  at  iirst  than  aft^rwartjg.  But  lot  the 
student  densely  read  the  Prologue  to  Part  I. 
cjf  *Tamburlaine,'  Mid  he  will,  I  thinks  con- 
clude with  me  that  it  is  not  the  production 
of  a  writer  who  was  appealing  to  the  public 
for  the  first  time.  This  Prologue  will  also 
bear  comparison  with  the  Prologue  to 
*  Sell  m  US;  Charles  Crawford. 

{To  be  tQjUinmd.) 


VKRBS  FORMED  OUT  OF  PROPER  NAMES. 
\  (8e©  ^  S.  VI.  248,  312  ;  vii.  182.) 

Tq  ffrei/on/.—To  gibbet,  to  hang*  from 
j^ree  »ucce**ive  hangmen  of  the  name  of 
^aegory.  Hence  the  ''Gregorian  Tree,"  a 
istJae  for  the  gallows, 

To  ftriffUhoijn, — To  restore  an  ecclesiastical 
"Jfjifice  badly,  t.g.^  the  west  front  of  St.  Alban'^ 
Abbey  and  its  window,  when  taken  in  hand 
^^  Lord  Grimthorpe  :  a  word  first  uaed  in 
^^^  AfJtefUFum  of  23  July,  1892. 

^*/ gmllotin,—To  suffer  the  penalty  of  de- 
?^i:>itation  by  means  of  the  instrument 
^Vented  bv  0r.  Joseph  Ignatius  Guillotin, 
*  French  pny sician  during  the  Revolution. 

^^f  jerry- fmild.— To  build  in  an  insufficient, 
f^i^less,  or  hasty  manner.  Jerry  Brothers^ 
?^ilders  and  contractors,  were  a  Liverpool 
***ni  in  the  early  part  of  last  century  who 
^^ed  to  put  up  rapidly  built,  ahowy,  but  ilU 
^^ti%tructed  houses,  so  that  they  gave  their 
^jfc'ine  to  such  work,  first  in  Liverpool,  then 
^Ofoughout  England.* 

r,  g^  7^1  s^  i3t^  507 ;  X.  116;  xiL  sm.  At  the  Imt 
^^hamce  tho  4en^mtion  now  given  Is  disputed,  ] 


To  kmn(.— To  run  away— as  it  were  to  the 
Levant,  the  eastern  portion  of  the  Mediter- 
ranean Sea,  to  escape  one^s  creditors  :  "  Never 
mind  that,  man  [having  no  money  to  stake], 
run  a  levant...... but  he  circumspect  about 

the  man  "  (Fielding,  *  Tom  Jones '). 

7'rt  /«,?/*.— The  slang  word  "lush,"  meaning 
b(H*r  or  other  intoxic-ating  liquor,  in  an 
abbreviation  of  Lu8hington,  the  name  of  a 
Ijonrlon  brewer.  Its  atioption  in  this  Monse 
was  perhaps  facilitated  by  the  fact  of 
Shakespeare  having  used  the  *dd  adjectiva 
"lush,"  meaning  succuient,  rich,  luxuriant :— 

"How  lu«jh  aud  lusty  Ui&  gross  looks 4  how 
^reen  J"-' The  Teiupeat,*  U.  i. 

"They  didn't  look  like  regular  Lunhingtons  at 
all"  — Mayhtjw,  '  Loudon  Labour  and  London  F'oor,' 

T^ti  I i/nck.— To  act  according  to  mob  law, 
to  inflict  nummary  puniahment^  either  with 
no  trial  at  all  or  after  trial  by  an  informal 
and  self-appointed  body  of  men  who  act  as 
an  extemporized  court »  Originally  the  kind 
of  law  administered  by  Charles  Lynch,  a 
Quaker  and  Virginia  planter,  who  in  the 
early  part  of  the  Revolution,  in  conjunction 
with  his  neighbours  Robert  Adams  and 
Thomas  Calloway,  undertook  to  j^roteet 
society  and  support  the  i-evolutionary 
government,  in  the  region  whore  he  lived 
on  the  Staunton  River,  by  punishing  with 
stripes  or  banishment  such  lawless  or  dis- 
affected persons  aa  were  accused  ;  but  the 
death  penalty  was  never  inflicted.  "Lynch 
law  is  an  outoi'eak  of  the  reformatory  spirit 
among  people  of  low  or  recent  civilization " 
(E.  Eggleston,  'The  Gray  sons,*  ch.  xii.  p.  135). 

To  /mjjirk^ — A  transient  phrase,  much  in 
vogue  for  a  few  days  after  the  relief  of 
Mafeking  during  the  Boer  war. 

To  mndijfieh,—  To  place  one  object  between 
two  others  of  a  different  kind,  cnaracter,  &c. 
The  Earl  of  Sandwich,  a  famous  admiral  who 
served  under  both  Cromwell  and  Charles  IL, 
is  said  to  have  l>een  the  inventor  of  the 
sandwich  composed  of  two  pieces  of  brea,d 
and  a  thin  slice  of  ham  or  other  meat. 

To  simpmri.—To  adulterate  milk  by  adding 
water  thereto,  from  a  dairyman  of  this  name 
who  in  the  sixties  w&a  prosecuted  on  this 
account. 

To  tulbiA-Utjm, — To  produce  a  photographic 
image  on  t^e  surface  of  paper  chemically 
prepared.  The  process  was  invented  by  Fox 
Talbot. 

To  thijmaM^  or  to  go  about  ik&nifumq,— 
To  beg  on  St.  Thomas's  Day,  as  is  still  cfone 
in  some  parts  of  the  country,  especially  in 
the  district  of  Almondsburif  arid  E^a^Me^T*.- 
fiekl    Also  to  cteiifceiic*  qii  ^\».  *3Wm^tv^%\iwa 


264 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     [fl^s  vn  Arnne  icoi. 


To  Vandyke,— l^o   ornament    by    forming 
indentations.        J.  Holden  MacMichael. 
Wimbledon  Park  Road. 


Good  Friday  and  Parsley.  —  A  good 
Church  woman,    who    is    also    fond    of    her 

garden,  when  pointing  out  to  a  friend  her 
ne  crop  of  parsley  a  vear  or  two  ago,  ex 
plained  that  it  was  so  plentiful  because  sown 
on  Good  Friday.  This  was  at  Singleton,  near 
Chichester.  J.  R. 

Bibliography  of  Easter  (continued  froni 
9^  S.  iii.  244).— 

April,  1645.  "The  custome  of  the  parish  of 
Tuitnam  (being  that  on  Blaster  day  two  prreat  cakes 
should  be  broken  in  the  church,  and  given  to  the 
young  people)  was  ordered  to  be  forborn,  and 
instead  thereof  bread  to  be  given  to  the  poor." 
Whitelocke's  *  Memorials/  1682,  p.  135  a ;  see  fur- 
ther Brand's  'Popular  Antiquities,  ed.  Ellis  (Bohn), 
1849,  i.  165-6. 

Bisse^Rev.  E.,  of  Portbury.  Resolved  Cheerful- 
ness in  Dangers.  A  Specimen  of  Meditations  during 
Easter  Week,  whilst  in  the  Messenger's  hands. 
8vo.  pp.  30, 1721. 

Wilson,  Henry,  Mathematician  at  Tower  Hill. 
The  Regulation  of  Easter,  or  the  Cause  of  the 
Errors  and  Differences  contracted  in  the  Calculation 
of  it,  discovered  and  duly  considered.  (A  pam- 
phlet.)   1735. 

Macclesfield,  Greorge,  Earl  of.  On  the  Solar  and 
Lunar  Years,  the  Golden  Number,  the  Epact,  and 
on  finding  the  time  of  Easter,  in  a  Letter  to  Martin 
Folkes.    4to,1751.    (See7»»»  8.  iii.  286.) 

Rumsey,  Rev.  L.  H.  The  True  Date  of  the 
Crucifixion  and  Resurrection.    1882. 

Rumsey,  Rev.  L.  H.  To  Find  Easter.  (A 
pamphlet,  printed  for  private  circulation.)    1900. 

Easter  Sepulchres.  See  *  Visitations  of  Churches 
belonging  to  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,'  Camden  Soc., 
1895. 

W.  C.  B. 

"  Le  Roy  le  veult."— On  Friday  morning, 
March  29th,  the  House  of  Commons  was  sum- 
moned to  the  House  of  Peers  to  receive  the 
announcement  of  the  royal  assent  to  the  Con- 
solidated Fund  (No.  1)  Act,  1901.  This  is  the 
first  Act  of  Edward  VII.,  and  for  the  first 
time  for  sixty-three  years  the  phrase  "Le 
Roy  le  veult "  was  usea  in  place  of  "  La  Reyne 
le  veult."  The  words  recited  by  the  clerk  of 
the  House  of  Lords  were,  "  Le  Roy  remercie 
ses  bons  sujets,  accepte  leur  benevolence,  et 
ainsi  le  veult."  N.  S.  S. 

*  The  Pilgrim's  Progress  ':  First  Edition. 
— The  following  extract,  taken  from  the  TtTnes 
of  22  March,  cannot  fail  to  be  of  general 
and  permanent  interest  :— 

"A  perfect   copy   of   the   first   edition   of   the 

'Pilgrim's   Progress'    is    to  be    sold    at   Messrs. 

Sotbeby*B  on  9  May  next.     The  history  of   this 

example  is  interesting.    It  was  at  one  Ume  \n  tbe 

possession  of  the  Fleetwood  family,  and  was  given 


to  Ann  Palmer,  the  great-grandmother  of  the  late 
owner,  Mr.  John  Nash.  Ann  Palmer's  name  is 
written  across  the  title-page,  and  on  the  death  of 
her  husband,  William  Nash,  of  Upton  Coart, 
Slough,  in  1808,  it  was  given  to  his  only  child. 
William  Nash,  of  Langley.  It  afterwards  pama 
into  the  possession  of  the  late  Rev.  Z.  Nash,  vicar 
of  Christchurch,  Hants,  and  he  shortly  before  hii 
death  gave  it  to  the  late  owner.  Until  withio 
quite  recent  years  the  Holford  copy  of  the  fint 
edition  (dated,  like  the  second,  1678)  was  regarded 
as  complete  and  unique,  and  in  1875  a  facsimile  of 
it  was  published  by  Mr.  Elliot  Stock.  But  that 
copy  has  not  the  frontispiece,  in  which  the  author 
was  depicted  as  asleep.  It  is  quite  possible  that 
the  frontispiece  did  not  appear  in  all  the  copies  of 
the  first  issue,  and  its  disappearance  in  the  four 
or  five  other  known  copies,  all,  or  nearly  all 
imperfect  in  the  text,  may  possibly  be  attribated 
to  the  devastating  zeal  of  such  men  as  Ba^^ord  or 
Granger.  The  plate  in  the  Nash  copy,  which  was 
examined  in  1886  by  the  British  Museum  authori- 
ties (and  reported  upon  in  Notes  and  Quene»t 
8  May,  1886),  is  not  part  and  parcel  of  the  tirst  sbeetof 
sixteen  pages,  but  the  paper  used  for  the  ensraTiiiE 
of  the  title-page  is  precisely  similar  in  make  ana 
appearance,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  it 
forms  an  integral  portion  of  the  volume.  This 
plate  differs  in  one  remarkable  particular  from  the 
frontispiece  in  the  later  editions,  inasmuch  at  the 
words  *  City  of  Vanity '  appear  in  it,  in  place  of 
'  City  of  Destruction.'  As  to  the  provenance  of 
Mr.  Holford's  copy  nothing  seems  to  be  knowxL 
It  was  valued  by  Lowndes  in  1873  (see  'Biblio- 
grapher's Manual,'  p.  312)  at  50^.— a  price  which, 
ft  18  scarcely  necessary  to  say,  bears  very  little 
relation  to  that  which  it  would  now  realiase.  There 
is  no  record  of  a  copy  having  been  sold  at  pnbhc 
auction  in  this  country.  The  late  Mr.  W.  E. 
Buckley's  copy  of  the  third  edition  sold  for  19^.  5«. 
in  1^,  a  very  fine  copy  of  the  fifth  edition  realised 
22/.  at  Sotheby's  in  1898,  and  one  of  the  onhr  two 
known  copies  of  the  sixth  edition  realized  24/.  is 
1894.  The  appearance,  therefore,  of  the  unique 
copy  of  the  first  edition  of  this  remarkable  little 
volume  is  an  event  of  no  little  consequenoe  in  the 
book-collecting  world." 

In  regard  to  the  engraving  which  form&^ 
the  frontispiece  in  the  late  Mr.  Nash's  copjr  -m 
it  is  well  to  remind  the  reader  that  npon  thi^ 
examination  of  this  copy  at  the  Britisti^ 
Museum  in  1886  Mr.  Graves  discoverec^B 
under  the  word  "  Destructionj"  which  mark  -= 
the  city  from  which  the  Pilgrim  flies  in  th  ^-' 
plate   of   the  Museum    copy  of    the    thir^ 

edition,  traces  of   the  word  "Vanity"  b „ 

which,  in  Mr.  Nash's  copy,  the  city  is  shon 
This  aiscovery  led  Mr.  Graves  to  sup 
that  the  volume  referred  to  by  the 
was  an  '* advance  cop^r,''  and  that  the  artist: 
blunder  in  thus  naming  the  city  was  in  m 
probability  discovered  by  Bunyan  bin 
who  causea  the  two  editions  issued  in  16 
to  appear  minus  the  plate,  which  was  workfc_3< 
up  anew  for  the  third  edition  issued  in  t*n< 
following  year.    (See  7"»  S.  i.  376.) 

B.\QEAKD  EdGCUXBI* 


9^  8.  VIL  April  6.  1901.]       NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


265 


The  Duke  of  Wellington's  Census 
Paper,  1861.— At  the  Royal  MUitary  Ex- 
hibition at  Chelsea  in  1890  there  was  ex- 
hibited the  great  Duke's  census  paper  of 
1861,  filled  in  oy  his  own  hand.  Among  other 
qaeetions  that  were  answered  by  him  were 
the  two  foUowing:  "Where  bom] "and  "If 
deal  and  dumb,''  to  which  the  answers  were 
"  Ireland— believe  in  Athy  "  and  "  Deaf."  I 
thought  it  extraordinary  that  the  Duke 
shoaid  have  believed  that  Athy  was  his 
birthplace.  He  is  generally  supposed  to 
have  been  bom  in  Dublin  on  1  May,  1769. 

T.  W.  B. 

A  Legend  of  Mugginton,  Derbyshire.- 
I  apoend  a  cutting  from  the  Derby  Mercury 
of  6  March.  It  is  new  to  me.  and  may  possibly 
be  worth  a  place  in  *  N.  <k  Q.*:— 

**  In  the  outlying  hamlet  of  Mugginton  there  is  a 
qnati-PaJladian  chapel,  about  15  feet  square,  which 
is  oonomonly  known  as  Halter  Devil  Chapel.  The 
■tory  is  a  bad  one.  Francis  Brown,  who  had  a  bad 
reputation  both  for  drunkenness  and  for  feeding  his 
horses  at  the  expense  of  his  neighbours,  went  forth 
one  night  to  bnng  home  a  truant  steed,  and,  in 
spite  of  drink  and  darkness,  found  the  animal  with- 
out difficulty.  On  reaching  home  and  bringing  out 
ft  lantern  he  found  the  halter  was  round  the  neck  of 
ft  homed  beast,  which  conscience  suggested  must  be 
the  devil  himself.  He  repented  of  his  evil  deed, 
ftnd  by  way  of  atonement  attached  a  chapel  to  his 
own  little  farm,  which  was  situated  on  a  stretch  of 
land  taken  into  Mugginton  from  the  adjoining 
parish  of  Hulland.  The  grotesaue  attempt  at 
daaaical  architecture  which  the  little  chapel  pre- 
sents contrasts  strang^ely  enough  with  the  farm 
buildings  to  which  it  is  attached.  It  is  said  that 
it  has  never  been  consecrated  or  licensed,  but  a 
curate  officiates  in  it  once  a  month,  and  receives 
the  rental  of  some  17  acres  of  land,  which  form  the 
endowment.  On  a  tablet  in  the  pediment  of  the 
chapel  are  the  lines 

Francis  Brown  in  his  old  age 
Built  him  here  this  hermitage. 
The  register  of  Mugginton  parish  contains  the  fol- 
lowing entry:  •  178l7June  11th,  Francis  Brown,  of 
Hulland  Ward,  buried.  Intakes  Founder  of  Chapel 
in  7th  Intakes  Ward,  to  be  annexed  to  Mugginton 
for  ever,  after  death  of  his  widow,  his  daughter,  and 
her  husband,  Edward  Allen.*  '* 

W.  H.  QUARRELL. 

Twentieth-Century  MEDAL.--The  mayor 
of  the  ancient  Cornish  borough  of  Lostwithiel 
baa  presented  to  the  first  child  born  there 
aariiig  the  present  century  a  silver  medal 
bearing  the  following  inscription  :— 

"Annie  Alexandra  Stephens,  bom  29th  January, 
1901.  The  first  child  born  in  the  Borough  of  Lost- 
^thiel  during  the  Twentieth  Century  and  the  Reign 
of  King  Edward  VII.  Presented  by  Robert  Barclay- 
AlUrdBce,  Esq.,  Mayor  of  Lostwithiel  1899-1901." 

T.  y.  L. 

Wto.  Grant  of  Laogan.— As  considerable 
attention    has   lately  been  given   in    these 


columns  to  this  Scottish  lyrist  and  friend  of 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  it  may  be  well  to  state  that 
her  maiden  name  was  Macvicar,  and  not 
"Macivar,"  as  in  the  "Golden  Treasury" 
volume  of  'Scottish  Song.'  This  is  Mrs. 
Grant's  account  of  her  parentage  and  birth, 
as  |(iven  in  the  autobiographical  fragment 
utilized  in  her  son's  '  Memoirs  of  Mrs.  Grant' 
(Longmans  <k  Co.,  1845) : — 

**  My  father,  Duncan  Macvicar,  was  a  plain,  brave, 
pious  man.  He  was  born  in  the  parish  of  Craignish, 
in  Argyllshire,  and  was  early  left  an  orphan.  Ho 
removed,  when  a  young  man,  to  Fort  William,  in 
Invemcss-shire,  where  he  had  some  concern  in 
farming  along  with  his  relation,  Capt.  Macvicar. 
In  1753  he  married  my  mother,  who  was  a  grand- 
daughter of  Mr.  Stewart  of  Invemahyle,  an  ancient 
famuy  in  the  neighbouring  county  of  Argyll.  Some 
time  afterwards  my  parents  removed  to  Glasgow, 
where  I  was  bom  on  the  2l8t  February,  1755." 

To  this  it  may  just  be  added  that  Mrs. 
Grant's  maternal  grand  -  uncle,  Alexander 
Stewart  of  Invemahyle,  was  the  prototype 
of  the  Baron  of  Brad wardine  in  *  Waverley.' 
Stewart,  saysScott(introduction  to  'Waverley,' 
1829),  "was  a  noble  specimen  of  the  old  Hign- 
lander,  far  descended,  gallant,  courteous,  and 
brave  even  to  chivalry."  It  was  but  fitting 
that  his  grand-niece  should  bo  one  of  the  first 
to  recognize  his  ideal  presentation  in  *  Waver- 
ley,' and  to  express  her  decided  opinion  as  to 
the  authorship  of  that  remarkable  work. 

Thomas  Baynk. 

United   States   Flag. — In  a  volume   of 
'Humorous  Tales  and  Poems,'  published  1824, 
but  written  about  1790,  occurs  the  following : 
The  man  who  whipt  apostle  Paul 
Five  times  forgot  to  give  him  all 
His  lashes ;  sitn  he  gave  no  more 
Than  nine  and  thirty  for  two  score ! 
But  this  obliging  beadle  gave 
One  over  what  Snap  ought  to  have, 
And  to  indulge  his  country  cousin, 
Let  him  have  thirteen  to  the  dozen ! 
Drew  out  and  painted  on  his  back 
A  Yankee-doodle  Boston  jack,* 
Then  set  the  wincing  culnrit  free 
With  thirteen  stripes  ana  liberty ! 

R.  J.  F. 

Singing  in  Church.— I  recently  extracted 
the  following  quaint  notice  from  the  Tirnea 
of  12  January,  1839,  p.  6,  col.  b  :— 

"The  following  Notice  was  delivered  by  the  Rev. 
Dr.  Greenwood,  Rector  of  the  Parish  of  Colne 
Engain,  Essex,  on  Sunday,  the  30th  ult.,  at  the 
Church  of  that  Parish  in  the  course  of  the  afternoon 
service :  '  I  beg  respectively  [itic]  to  give  notice  that  it 
is  not  lawful  for  any  person  of  another  parish  to  sing 

*  A  small  flag  or  colour  used  on  ship-board  for 
ornament  or  use.    Since  the  secession  of  the  Ame- 
rican  colonies  their  characteristic  flag  is  coavvo««d 
of  thirteen  Btripea,  TevtefteTiWT\\^\\v^\i>ocw^wst  ^\  VJtv^ 
United  States. 


266 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p»8.  vilapwi,6.i9bi. 


in  this  Church  without  tonBultiii^  it-  H<  .  Lur,  Vk-ar, 
or  Curate,  nor,  iudeedf  of  any  other  Church  in  ihia 
Kingdom —that 's  the  law.'— Cffte^wj^f/tJjY/  Chr€/KicteJ- 

I  think  thiff  should  have  a  place  in  *  N.  *fc  Q.* 
w.  J.  Gadsden. 
Crouch  End. 

The  Caknthalism  of  Ethwe  the  Dreab. 
—Prof.  Kuno  Meyer  prints  in  tho  current 
part  of  y  Cimmn^dor.  from  the  Rawlin'^on 
M8S.,  an  account  of  the  tribe  of  the  Deaai. 
The  narrative  dates  from  the  latter  half  of 
the  eighth  century,  and  contains  a  notice  of 
an  JHsli  settlement  in  Wales  tlunng  the  third 
century.  There  is  a  curious  statement  as  to 
anthropophagy.  Ethne  the  Dread  was  the 
daughter  of  Crimthand  and  his  second  wife 
Cuiniu»  who  was  the  sij^ter  of  his  first  wife  :— 

"In  the  night  when  Ethne  was  born  Eri,  tha 
druid,  son  of  Baircldd,  was  in  the  stronghold.  *The 
nuftldon  that  hoa  heen  born  to-night/  said  Brip  *  alt 
the  men  of  Insland  shall  know  her,  and  on  account 
of  this  maiden  her  mother's  kindred  will  Bet;so  the 
land  on  which  they  shiiU  dwell.*  When  they  heard 
the  truth  of  that  story  from  the  druid  that  it  was 
through  the  power  of  the  maiden  that  they  would 
obtain  inheritance,  they  reared  her  on  the"  deah  of 
little  boys  that  she  might  grow  nuickly.  Hence 
Ethne  the  Dread  was  her  name,  for  the  little  boy  a 
dreaded  her.** 

No  wonder !  Whether  we  regard  the  story 
as  an  instance  of  folk -etymology  or  not,  the 
reference  to  the  eating  of  human  iJesli  is 
curious  and  interesting;. 

William  E.  A.  Axon. 
Manob  ester. 

Ckntipedes  :  Local  Name.  —  In  vol,  v. 
of  the  *  Cambridge  Natural  History,'  dealing 
with  Peripatus,  myriapods,  and  insects,  pt.  i., 
Mr,  F.  G,  Sinclair,  JLA.,  to  whom  is  due  the 
article  on  myriapods,  writes  : — 

'^  In  Engliah  we  have  the  names  Centipede  and 
Millipede...,. .Of  course  these  are  general  words* 
simply  implying  the  posaesiion  of  a  great  number  of 
leg^,  But  we  have  als^o  among  the  peaaantry  a  name 
for  Centi]>ede^  which  convtsya  a  much  more  accurate 
idea  of  the  rmmber.  The  |>eople  of  the  east  em 
counties  (I  dare  say  the  term  is  more  widely  spreatl) 
eatl  them  *  forty  legs/  This  is  not  quite  accurate 
».....butisa  better  apprDximatioii  than  Centipede. 
But  another  country  has  a  a  till  more  accurate 
term,  I  found  aom^  Scolor^eudra  in  Beyrouth  and 
aalE^l  my  native  servant  what  he  called  them.  He 
^ve  them  what  I  afterw^rdB  found  was  the  common 
Arab  name  for  themj  *  arba  wiU  arbarin/  forty-four 
legB." 

Evidently,  then,  the  author  was  not  aware 
that  the  term  "forty-four  legs"  was  actually 
used  in  this  country*  Fmm  early  childhood 
I  never  knew  them  to  be  called  aught  else  in 
the  limited  circle  of  the  inmates  of  my  parents- 
home.  But  until  I  read  the  remarks  above 
lotedl  had  no  idea  of  ita  rarity.    Since  then 


I  have  bored  my  friends  and  acquaintances 
on  the  subject,  but  without  finding  on©  who 
knows  the  tei-m  *' forty -four  legs."  Many  use 
** forty  legs"  and  some  "twinge.  This  latter,  of 
course,  is  misapplied  when  given  to  the  centi- 
pede ;  properly  it  belongs  to  the  earwig,  to 
which  the  oentipefle  has  a  very  superficial 
resemblance.  No  doubt  I  learnt  the  name 
**  forty  four  legs  "  from  my  father,  who  is  a 
North  Riding  man  ;  and  it  would  be  interest- 
ing to  know  whether  it  still  obtains,  and 
where.  E.  O,  B. 

Sympatueth^  Maoic— In  Uolombia  (S.A.) 

a  woman  who  is  expecting  to  become  a 
mother  must  not  lift  nor  carry  about  a  newly 
born  infant,  lest  by  doing  so  she  sliould  give 
it  a  kind  of  colic,  which  is  supposed  to  be  her 
own  future  pains.  These  pains  would  not 
leave  the  baby  until  her  own  child  had  heen 
born.  For  this  the  i-emedy  is  a  piece  of  tap<? 
first  tied  i-ound  the  woman's  waist  and  then 
worn  by  the  Imby.  This  idea  seems  particu- 
larly odd,  for  it  supposes  a  transference  of 
future^  not  present  pain.  The  superstition 
ha.s  come  under  my  notice  more  than 
once,  and  I  have  seen  the  cure  tried 
successfully.  If  the  woman's  confine- 
men  tisnejirat  hand,  it  does  not  matter  very 
much,  but  if  it  is  some  months  distant  then 
the  baby  with  the  colic  is  in  evil  case^  for  It 
would  probably  die—unless  cured  hj  the 
tape— as  the  pains  must  continue  tin  til  the 
woman^s  begin.  The  mother's  milk  can  be 
driefl  up  by  putting  the  baby*8  damp  clothes 
to  dry  in  the  sun— the  moisture  being  ori- 
ginally mother's  milk-  Drying  in  the  wind 
does  no  harm,  Striking  a  matcli  in  the  room 
wheit)  the  child  is  being  fed  also  dries  the 
milk. 

At  the  birth  of  a  child  the  placenta,  iSc,» 
must  be  buried  where  no  animal  can  get  at 
it,  nor  an  enemy,  otherwise  the  wom&n  would 
suffer.      In    the    'Golden    Bough"   (voL   I 
pp.  53-5)  it  is  the  baby  which  suffers  ;  not  so 
in  Colombia^only  the  mother.     I  heard  of  a 
case  there   where,  otit  of  revengej  another  — 
woman  got  the  placenta  and    put  it  in  an  ^^ 
earthenware  pot^  Keeping  this  day  and  nightz^ 
by  a  hot  fire.     The  woman  who  had   heetw — 
confined  had,  of  course,  a  terrible  fever,  ot^'-m 
which  she   would  have  died  had    not   th^- 
cause  Ijeeu  discovered  and  the  contents  o«^ 
the  oUa  buried.  iBAGui. 

"  Devil's  broth."  —  When  I  was  quite  ^ 
little   boy  in   the  fifties  I  often  heard  th^r- 
neighbouV  women,  wlien  engaged  in  the  m^sssj 

the- time  dvitiea  of  "  neighbouring,"  speak  c=^» 
\  iX\\Vi%H    ^ib^ejt\.\Qtu%H%    a*    "devils    bro^^oKT 


9»8.viLApim,6,i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


267 


This  was  a  sort  of  mixture  of  "  happenings '' 
in  houses,  for  often  the  phrase  was  used  in 
this  way,  "  Yes  !  she  s  made  a  nice  devil's 
broth  of  it ! "  The  comment  on  this  would 
run,  "  Ah  !  you  might  as  well  eat  th'  owd 
devil  as  taste  his  broth  ! " 

Thos.  Ratcliffe. 
Workflop. 

Wk  must  reouest  correspondenU  desiring  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct. 

Webkes  :  Catlin  :  Brocas.— In  Col.  Vivian's 
*  Visitations  of  Co.  Devon '  will  be  seen  the 
statement  that  Richard  Weekes,  of  Hather- 
leigh,  Gentleman  Pensioner  of  Charles  II., 
married  Dorothy,  daughter  of  Philip  Catelyn, 
Esq.,  of  Woolverston  Hall,  SuflFolk.  I  should 
be  greatly  obliged  if  any  of  your  readers 
could  supply  the  date  and  place  of  such 
marriage  or  any  particulars  concerning  the 
said  Dorothy  and  ner  immediat<e  connexions. 
I  have  a  satisfactory  pedigree  of  her  ancestry 
—  thanks  to  DavVs  SulBfolk  Collections 
(Add.  MS.  19,122),  wills,  inquisitions,  and  other 
reliable  sources— and  I  find  Philip's  children 
recorded  as  Dorothy,  bom  1618;  Robert, 
bom  1616  :  John,  born  1619 ;  and  Mary,  who 
married  Thomas  Brocas,  Esq.,  of  Beaurepaire, 
and  was  buried  in  Sherborne  St.  John's 
Church,  Hants,  in  1693  (aged  72-3),  her  son 
Thomas  giving  her  a  most  eulogistic  epitaph. 
One  of  Dorothy's  uncles  was  Sir  Nathaniel 
Catlyn,Knt.,  Recorder  of  Dublin.  Another, 
named  in  an  inquisition,  but  not  in  the  pedi- 
grees, was  Thomas,  who  was  "  son  and  heir " 
and  aged  nineteen  years  in  1601,  but  must 
have  oied  young. 

Some  very  early  Catelvns,  not  given  in  the 
pedigrees,  but  presumaDly  ancestors  of  the 
liichard.  Sheriff  of  Norwich  in  1531,   with 
whom  these  begin,  are  to  be  found  in  a  list 
of  freemen  of  Norwich  printed  in  vol.  iv.  of  j 
J^ast  Anglian  Notts  and  Qtieries,  viz.,  Stephen 
Catelyn  (mercer),  2  Henry  IV. ;  Henry  Cate- 1 
lyn,  2  Henry  V. ;  Richard  Catelyn  (mercer), 
^  Henry  VIII.   **  Richard  the  younger,  gentle- 
tuan  and  lawyer,"  36  Henry  Vlll.,  is  presum- 
ably identical  with  the  sheriff  above  named, 
t^hilip    Catelyn,    of    Woolverston,     married 
^according  to  Blorafield,  Davy,  Ac.)  Dorothy, 

riaughter  of Lawrence,  of ,  oo.  Cam- 

iDrioge.  Among  administrations  at  Somerset 
House  is  one,  dated  1632,  of  Philip  Catelyn, 
^*  nap.  de  parochia  Scti.  Egidii  extra  Cripple- 
QSate,"  by  his  widow  Dorothy  ;  but  I  can  find 


no  Catelvns  in  St.  Giles's  registers  at  that 
time.  I  learn,  however,  from  a  Coram  Rege 
Roll  of  22-23  Charles  II.,  that  either  Richard 
of  Hatherleigh  or  his  son  Richard  did  on 
29  July,  19  Charles  II.,  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Giles,  Cripplegate,  beicome  bound  to  one 
Wm.  Jolly  by*  a  deed  obligatory  for  40/. 
An  entry  in  Hatherleigh  Church  registers, 
"January  26th,  1707,  bur.  Mrs.  Dorothy 
Weekes,"  probably  refers  to  Richard's  wife — 
his  widow,  rather,  for  he  died  in  1670. 

Suffolk  being  as  far  from  Devon  "as  the 
east  is  from  the  west,"  I  have  wondered 
whether  the  journeying  was  Richard's  or 
hers.  On  the  one  hand,  Killigrews  of  Corn- 
wall intermarried  with  Catlyns  of  Suffolk, 
and  may  have  taken  members  of  the  family 
back  with  them  ;  indeed,  there  is  an  adminis- 
tration, 1636,  of  Elizabeth  Catlyn,  of  Launce- 
ston,  spinster,  by  her  mother  Francisca 
Couch  aVs  Catlyn.  On  the  other  hand,  I  have 
just  seen  in  the  IHast  Anglian  Notes  and 
Ofceries  (vol.  ii.  p.  125),  among  *  Notices  from 
the  Great  Court  of  the  Borough  of  Ipswich,' 

1652,  a  "complaint against  Jas.  Cooper, 

Wm.  Baker,  Saml.  Tovell,  and  Richard  Weefees, 
for  that  they,  being  forrainers,and  not  freemen 
of  this  town,  do  nevertheless  hold  free  trade 
in  open  shop  as  free  men  of  this  town."  I  do 
not  know  whether,  even  as  an  unfortunate 
Royalist,  Richard  would  have  condescended 
to  *'keep  shop "  — gambling  was  more  in 
his  line— but  the  entry  affords  at  least  a 
curious  coincidence  of  name  and  date.  I 
may  add  that  the  Richard's  first  child  was 
buried  at  Hatherleigh,  1653,  though  its  birth 
is  not  recorded  there. 

Ethel  Lega-Weekss. 
Leafy  Nook,  Caroline  Terrace,  Brook  Green,  W. 

Apparition.— In  Mr.  William  S.  Childe-Pem- 
berton's  interesting  book  *  The  Baroness  de 
Bode,'  1900, 1  find  at  p.  29  a  note  of  a  curious 
nature,  which  seems  worth  further  inquiry.  It 
is  as  follows  :— 

"  The  editor  has  a  picture  of  the  beautiful  Molly 
Davenport,  his  ^real-grandmother.  IShe  had  been 
'  acreeably  married '  to  his  great-grandfather  Mr. 
John  Shakespear  (a  member  of  Warren  Hastings's 
Supreme  Council  of  India)  on  May  9,  1782.  On 
their  marriage  Mr.  and  Mrs.  8hakespear  proceeded 
to  Calcutta,  where  a  strange  and  supernatural  in- 
cident soon  afterwards  befell  Mr.  Shakespear,  which 
was  witnessed  by  the  Governor-General,  Warren 
Hastings,  and  the  other  Members  of  the  Supreme 
Council.  While  sitting  in  conclave  in  the  Council 
Chamber,  Mr.  Shakespear,  suddenly  looking  up,  ex- 
claimed, *  Good  God  !  there 's  my  father ! '  The 
whole  Council  then  saw  the  figure  of  a  person,  un- 
known to  them,  glide  through  the  Chamber^ 'wKvaVi. 
had  no  outlet,  and  d\&a.YV^^^*  '^VvaX^  xftsst^vy^^T^ 
attracted  the  atteut\OT\  ol  Wv^^o>\xv^Wv?^\)cvfcV^RX» 
that  the  figure  appoat^d  >NeaiT\ti%  «*  >val  q\  ^  \>\Ba.^Qs^- 


268 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      19-'8.vilapiul6,i9oi 


usual  shape,  commonly  known  in  onrday  asa  *  ehini- 
ney-fjot.'  The  Governor-tieneral  was  bo  struck  by 
the  apjjarit Jon  that  he  orilered  a  minute  Ut  be  made 
of  the  matter  and  placed  in  the  record  chest  with  the 
official  dooumenla,  where  it  ia  sairl  to  have  reniainerl 
ever  since.  In  course  of  time  a  shi|>  from  Kngland 
arrived  bringing  the  news  of  the  death  of  Mr.  t^hake- 
»pear'»  father,  and  like  wise  a  cinrgo  of  *  chimney- 
pot^ hats,  the  first  ever  brought  to  India.  This 
incident  is  further  attested  by  the  tradition  of  it 
beiuff  handed  down  by  iive  snccesaive  generaliona  of 
the  family  of  the  Cators  of  Woodbaatwick  --  tbe 
originai  Mr.  Cator  having  been  one  of  the  witnesses 
of  trie  inysterious  apparition  in  the  Council  Cham  her, 
where  he  was  present  as  Secretary  to  Warren 
HaJ  tings." 

Can  this  narration  be  verifiod  by  reference 
to  the  Calcutta  official  documents,  or  is  any- 
thing known  further  of  it  1  Is  not  the  Mr. 
Shake.5pear  above  raentioned  tlie  former 
Bhakespear  of  Langley  Priory  ? 

W.  H,  QUAHKILL. 

The  Friend  or  Phidias.— In  Browning's 
'  Cleon  ^  the  expression  occurs 

Nor  carved 
And  painted  men  like  Phidiai  and  his  friend. 

What  is  the  name  of  the  friend  ? 

Aethue  Matall, 

**  Sod-Widow,"  — There  has  been  a  dis- 
cussion in  the  Athenwuiii  concerning  the 
meaning  of  the  terra  **  grass -widow."  In  the 
United  States  it  means  either  a  wife  whose 
hu^jband  is  all  but  continuously  absent  or  a 
wife  who  is  actually  separated  from  her  hus- 
band, tliough  there  may  have  been,  thus  far, 
no  legal  tiopa ration. 

The  term  "sod-widow*'^^a  woman  whose 
husband  is  dead  —  is  also  in  use  in  the 
United  Statoe,  Can  any  one  give  its 
origin  ?  D,  M. 

Philadelphia. 

[Apparently  a  widow  wbofic  huaband  iis  undor  the 
■odj 

Baskink. — J»  C.  Mangan^in  *  Kinkora/saysr 
**and  the  hosts  of  Baskinn  from  the  western 
wave."    Does  he  refer  to  the  Basks  t 

K   S.    DoDtJSON. 

HjnABe  IN  South AJi  Church,  Warwick- 
SEIRE. — Over  the  east  window  of  the  south 
aisle  of  this  church,  where  was  once  a  cliape!, 
are  two  small  heads,  stuck  there  some  what 
to  one  side  and  with  no  ornamental  con* 
nexioo.  I  have  been  told  a  visitor  to  the 
church  within  the  last  year  stated  his  belief 
that  the^  were  skulls  on*  a  battle-field  during 
the  Civil  Wars,  stuck  there  in  derision  by 
Round  heads  (1),  If  this  shoul  d  meet  h  is  ey  e,  1 
should  be  very  grateful  for  his  information  on 
the  subject,  and  the  authority  on  which  it  is 
faundefL  L.  J.  CARTWRlOHt. 

The  Abbey  ^utlkam. 


Powdering  Gown.— In  *  Pride  and  Preju- 
dice/ chap,  xlviii.,  Mr,  Bennet  says  :  '^I  will 
sit  in  my  library  in  my  nightcap  and^pow- 
dering  gown,  and  give  as  much  trouble  as 
I  can,''  Is  a  powdering  gown  a  dreaaio^- 
gown  in  which  one  sat  to  have  ones  hair 
powderofl  I  If  it  ia,  the  illustrator  of  Dents 
edition  is  in  error,  since  none  of  the  figures 
wears  hair  powder.  The  phrase  is  new  to  me. 

H,  T. 

C.«SAR  AND  PoMFET,— Can  any  of  jour 
readers  tell  me  where  I  can  find  a  summary 
of  the  characters  of  these  two  great  rivals 
contrasted  the  one  with  tbe  other? 

John  Willoock. 

Lerwick. 

Location  of  Theatre.— Which  town  hais 
its  theatre  situated  in  George's  Street!  TQie 
identification  is  required  for  an  item  relatmg 
to  a  theatre  so  called,  that  is,  Theatre  Boyalf 
George's  Street.  W,  W.  A, 


Catherine  Htbkbt  Theatre,— When  __ 
the  Theatre  of  Varieties,  Catherine  Street, 
Strand,  first  opened,  and  what  is  theapproxi- 
mate  date  of  its  being  closed  ?      W.  W,  A- 

'The  Devil's  Walk.'  — What  ©videncje 
exists,  by  way  of  MS,  or  otherwise,  that 
Richard  Porson  was  the  author  of  thiiipoemt 
It  was  once  published  among  the  work^  wf 
Coleridge*  It  is  catalogued  at  the  British 
Museum  under  the  name  of  Person, 

J,   H.  MlTCHtHEB. 

[We  have  alw^iivs  re^^rded  I  hie  poem»  which  first 
apjjeai-ed  in  the  Morntng  Po'il,  as  due  t^i  C(>leridge 
(with  the  excoption  of  the  lst>  2nd.  3rd^ 9th .and  l6Ui 
stanzas,  whicn  were  dietatetl  by  Southey).  It 
appears,  we  believe,  in  moat,  if  not  all,  editiont  of 
Moddgc's  poems.  Bui  see  *  N.  &  Q.  *  3^  B.  ix. 
197,  ann  e9j>ecially  a  long  article  bv  Mk-  C  A. 
Waud,  T^  ii  viii.  161,  and  a  comment  nyCuTiJBKKT 
Bkde,  7*"^  S.  viii,  258.1 

Joan  oi?  Arc. — Did  not  Joan  of  Arc  terra 

the  English  of  her  day  "  gnddams  "  ?    Where 

k  tlie  rof orence  1  and  is  the  same  nickname 

used  of  the  English  by  other  French  neople  ? 

Gkoffrby  lilLU 

[The  terms  an  Knghah  **  (foddaiu ''  and  an  Eaglish 
**  mi  lord"  have  bfjcn  heard  in  recent  days,] 

JoHH  lioBERTS.— He  was  a  director  of  the^» 
late  East  India  Com^ny  in  the  eighieentlnJ 

and  ninetoentii  centuries.  Any  jiarticulars  am^ 
to  his  parentage,  birth,  education,  raarriag^?^^ 
career,  death,  and  burial  would  be  mm.^ 
acceptable  to  me,  C.  Mason, 

29,  Emperot'K  Gate,  8,W. 


HoYAL  Standard,— When  and  why  did 
Vv(\%^  of  E^¥^land  adopt  the  lions  or  leo^ 


i>»8.vilapiul6.i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


269 


"TmERB,    but   FOfi  THE  GRACE  OF  GoD."— 1 

shall  be  obliKeti  if  you  can  tell  me  who  it  was 
that,  when  seeing  a  criminal  led  out  to  execu- 
tion,  remarked  to  a  friend,  **There»  but  for  the 
grace  of  God,  goes  ^— ,"  meaning  himself. 

M.  J.  fEESDALE. 
iDean  Fftrmr,  in  the  fourth  sermon  hi  *  Etyrual 
Hope^'  attributes  this  Haying  to  John  Bradford, 
His  words  are  i  '*  Pointing  to  ft  murderer  on  hh 
way  t<j  execution,  *  the  re,  said  a  gocnl  and  holy 
man.  '  there,  but  for  the  grace  of  God,  goes  John 
Bradford.' "J 

The  First  Editioii  of  the  *  Piuirim's  Peo- 
ORES».*— In  what  year  was  the  Holford  copy 
unearthed?  Macauiay  wrote  hi«  biography 
of  Bunyan  in  1854,  and  state^j^  "  Not  a  dngla 
copy  of  the  first  edition  ia  known  to  be  in 
esFtencQ.  The  year  of  publication  has  not 
been  ascertained,  Stapleton  Maktin. 

The  Firs,  Norton,  WoKest^r- 

[See  antp.,  p.  3S4.1 

Royal  Surname— Since  the  title  of  prince 
and  the  dignity  of  royal  highness  do  not 
d^icend  further  than  to  the  sons  of  younger 
sons  of  the  sovereign,  what  surname  ahould 
be  given  at  registration  of  birth  to  their 
children— Wettin,  Saxe,  or  what  else  1 

J.    MlLi«E, 

SlE  CoENELlus  OoLB.~Wlio  and  of  what 
rank  was  »Sir  Cornelia  a  Cole,  who  married 
in  1827  Rachel,  eldo.'jt  daughter  of  William 
Keed^  of  Tenby  ?  She  diet  J  on  l>oard  her 
hutbftnd's  yacht  in  the  Mediterranean,  and 
was  buried  at  Bristol.  At  which  church  did 
this  interment  take  place  1  Any  partieulara 
as  to  the  family  of  Sir  Uorneliuy  will  be 
acceptable.  Jomk  Hobson  MATTiiEWia. 

Town  Hall,  CftrdiflT. 

"Half  kat  and  halfweaskl":  '*Olo9e- 
BYEB,"— Close-eyed  persion-H  are  looked  upon 
in  various  parta  of  the  Midlands  m  unreliable 
folkf  not  to  be  trusted ,  and  of  such  the  saying 
in  "  Half  rat  and  half  weasel,"  ''  Ulosc-eyed^' 
aigTii6e«  that  the  eye^  are  set  closer  together 
than  in  cununonly  the  ca.^a  I^  this  known 
elsewhere  I  Thos.  Ratcliffe. 

Worksop. 

Lists  of  Oxfoeb  and  Cambkibge  Gead- 
tJATES, — Why  does  each  of  these  commence 
^«with  1G59?  George  C.  Peachxt, 

Bright  Walton,  Wantage. 

*TaE  CoGELERS,"  —  Can  any  reader  of 
*  U.  &  Q.*  inform  me  where  I  can  obtain 
^nll  information  of  the  Busisex  sect  known 
auiHhe  Coglers,"  *Hhe  Cogelers.^'  or  *Hhe 
^^kelers"!  I  possess  the  foHo wing  details, 
'^^'lich  I  should  like  to  Imve  suppwmented. 


The  Cogelers  were  originated  at  Kirdford 
by  one  James  Sirgood.  He  held  religious 
meetings  in  the  cottages  of  poor  persons. 
He  isi  said  to  have  suffered  considerable 
persecution^  many  of  his  followers  being 
diHcharged  from  their  work  and  coin- 
raandetito  leave  their  homes*  The  sect  is 
said  to  venerate  a  manuscript  known  as 
*The  Book  of  Cople,'  which  lays  down  cer- 
tain rules  for  life  and  worship.  Sirgood^  is 
supposed  to  have  written  a  pamphlet  during 
the  time  of  his  persecution  m  defence  of  his 
religious  principles.  I  shall  be  glad  to  know 
where  I  can  get  a  copy  of  this  paper.  Has  a 
history  of  these  people  been  publLshed  1 

Arthur  Beckett. 
Peveiiftey. 

Runic  Iniscription  found  in  St.  Paul's 
UhuejCHYARD.— In  the  year  1852,  in  excavat- 
ing for  the  foundations  of  a  new  warehouse 
on  the  south  side  of  St.  Paul's  Church yard^ 
London,  an  upright  stone  was  found  bearing 
on  its  face  a  curious  delineation  of  interlaced 
animals,  and  on  its  edge  a  runic  inscription* 
A  rubbing  of  the  stone  was  exhibited  by  the 
late  Prof.  Westwood  to  the  Royal  Archseo- 
logical  Institute  on  4  February,  1853,  and 
the  stone  is  figured  in  the  ArcA.  Joum.f  x*  82- 
It  was  also  shown  to  the  Society  of  Anti- 
quaries at  the  time.  The  late  Sir  A.  W. 
Franks  stateti  at  the  Institute  that  he  liad 
used  every  effort  to  obtain  the  stone  for  the 
British  Mu.senra,  but  that  the  owner  of  the 
warehouse  (presumably  Mr»  James  Knowles, 
Jun.)  had  determined  to  build  the  stone  into 
the  wall  of  the  chief  room  of  the  warehouse 
over  the  spot  where  it  had  been.  As  that 
is  nearly  hitv  years  ago  the  ^^a rehouse  may 
quite  likely  have  been  rebuiJt  and  the  stone 
removed.  Can  any  of  your  readers  say  where 
the  stone  is  ;  and  if  it  is  stilt  in  the  wall  of 
the  warehouse,  is  it  so  placed  that  the  runes 
(which  were  on  the  edge  of  the  stone)  can 
still  be  seen  1  T*  Uann  Hughes,  M,A. 

Lancaster, 

Sle  Clembnt  Scudamore,  Sheriff  of 
London  1605^.— Mr.  Cokayne,  in  *The  Lord 
Mayors  and  Sheriffs  of  London,  1601-25/ 
states  that  the  parentage  and  the  companv 
to  which  this  sheriff  belonged  are  notn 
unknown.  Can  any  of  your  correspondents 
supply  the  same  1  £.  C* 

Collet, — Humphrey  Collet,  of  the  parish 
of  St.  Saviour's,  South  wark,  was  M,P.  for 
Southwark  in  1553-5.    His  will  was  ntov^ 
in    P.CC,    1559  (Iwd^aiL  liOciYB^t^^.    '^'ev   ^^e* 
ancestor  of  the  CoWete  qI  ^\^^^^^iei.  Kxv^^O&sst 
family  of  CoUet^  deaceud^i  quV  ^1  Q\QWsft»r 


270 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     P*  s.  vn  apwl  e,  iwi. 


tershire,  was  in  the  seventeenth  century 
located  at  Chelsea.  The  pedigrees  of  both 
are  entered  in  the  Visitation  of  Middlesex, 
1663,  from  which  we  learn  that  they  bore 
arms  similar  to  those  of  the  Collets  of  Wen- 
dover,  Bucks,  the  ancestors  of  Dean  Colet. 
In  what  way  were  they  all  related  ? 

W.  D.  Pink. 
Lowton,  Newton-le- Willows,  Lancashire. 


THE  LATE  MRS.  EVERETTGREEN. 
(9^  S.  vii.  8.) 

My  attention  has  been  called  to  a  question 
asked*  at  the  above  reference  by  Mr.  W.  D. 
Pink,  of  Lancashire,  as  to  an  apparent  error 
in  the  notice  of  my  late  mother,  Mrs.  Everett- 
Qreen,  which  appears  (under  her  maiden 
name  of  Wood)  in  the  *  Dictionary  of  National 
Biography.'  It  is  there  stated  that  her  father 
was  the  Rev.  Robert  Wood  and  her  grand- 
father the  Rev.  James  Wood.  This  is  quite 
correct.  But  the  identification  of  this  Rev. 
James  Wood  (whose  dates  are  1761-1840) 
with  a  Presbyterian  minister  of  the  same 
namcL  eenerally  known  as  "  General  Jemmy 
Woods/*  who  was  born  seventy-nine  years 
before  (in  1672),  is  erroneous.  The  mistake 
is  not  embodied  in  Dr.  Ward's  text  of  the 
life  of  Mrs.  Everett  -  Green,  but  has  been 
introduced  by  the  insertion  of  two  brackets 
after  the  name  of  James  Wood,  viz.,  "(1672- 
1769)  [^.v.],"  which  refer  to  the  life  of 
"  General "  Woods  ^iven  a  few  pages  earlier, 
and  credit  him  with  being  Mrs.  Everett- 
Green's  grandfather,  in  spite  of  the  dis- 
crepancy in  dates  pointed  out  by  Mr.  Pink. 

The  editor  regrets  these  errors  as  much  as 
any  one:  they  had  already  been  noticed, 
and  stand  corrected  against  the  appearance 
of  a  new  edition  of  the  *  Dictionary.* 

Mr.  Pink  is  right  in  thinking  that  Mrs. 
Everett-Green  traced  her  pedigree  back  to 
the  thirteenth  century.  It  was  privately 
printed  some  twenty  years  ago  for  the  use 
of  the  family.  C.  Everett-Geebn. 

"Sarson  Stones"  (9"»  S.  vii.  149,  234).--It 

is  much  to  be  desired  that  '  N.  &  Q.'  shall 

continue  to  be  worthy  of  its  name,  and  not 

become  a  vehicle  of  fibs  and  twaddle.    A 

correspondent  dealing   with  the   origin    of 

the  Sarson  stones,  on  which  he  appears  to 

have  some  actual  knowledge,  unfortunately 

runs  off  into  twaddle  as  to  the  origin  of  the 

name,  about   which    he  has  no  knowledge 

whatever.    He  says,  "The  most  satisiactory 

derivatiou  of  the  name  Sarsens  or  SaaseMi^x^Ki^vt. 


from  the  Anglo-Saxon  word  for  a  rock  or 
stone,  seSy  pi.  sesen  or  sesans"  One  would  like 
to  know  to  whom  this  precious  piece  of  bosh 
is  ''  most  satisfactory,  seeing  that  its  false- 
hood is  not  merely  barefaced,  but  positively 
ludicrous,  showing  that  Anglo-Saxon  voca- 
bulary and  grammar  are  alike  unknown 
to  the  writer.  There  is  no  Anglo-Saxon 
word  sesj  nor  anything  like  it,  meaning  rock 
or  stone.  There  is,  indeed,  no  Anglo-Saxon 
word  in  s  with  any  such  meaning,  except 
the  word  stdn  itself,  the  ancestral  form  of 
stone.  And  if  there  were  a  word  ses,  it  could 
not  by  any  possibility  have  a  plural  sesen  or 
sesans  (save  the  mark  !).  One  might  think 
from  the  way  in  which  charlatans  produce 
"Anglo-Saxon  "words  to  order,  with  impossible 
plurals  for  them,  that  we  were  still  dealing 
with  George  Psalmanasar  and  his  language 
of  Formosa,  and  not  with  the  language  of 
our  own  forefathers,  which  is  now  studied  in 
every  college  and  in  many  a  high  school.  If 
a  correspondent  of  *  N.  &  Q.  has  not  an 
Anglo-Saxon  dictionary  (he  can  buy  Dr. 
Sweet's  for  a  few  shillings),  and  is  quite 
ignorant  of  its  grammaticalinflexions,  surely 
he  can  find  an  educated  schoolgirl  in  his 
neighbourhood  to  whom  he  can  apply  for 
information,  and  who  might  keep  him  from 
venting  his  folly  at  large.  Further  on  we 
are  told  that  Prof.  T.  R.  Jones  propounds  the 
remark  that  "  perhaps  the  word  sarsens  is  no 
other  than  the  Anglo-Saxon  word  for  rock 
properly  pronounced."  Now  I  have  no 
(louDt  tliat  Prof.  Jones  is,  as  another  corre- 
spondent assures  us,  "^  authoiity  on  the 
subject"  of  "the  full  geological  history  of 
these  stones";  but  one  is  sorry  to  see  him 
imperil  his  scientific  reputation  by  flounder- 
ing in  a  science  of  which  he  evidently  knows 
nothing,  and  so  making  himself  a  vehicle  of 
unscientific  error.  I  wonder  what  Prof. 
Jones  would  think  if    an  etymologist,  who 


knew  nothing  of  geology,  were  to  round  off 

logy  of  ckalk  by  suggesting  that 

"perhaps  after  all  chalk  is  a  derivative  of 


cheese,  and  that  coal  is  no  other  than  cheese 
properly  charred."    This  would  be  nearly  asj 
sapient  as  his  "Anglo-Saxon  word  for  rock- 
properly  pronouncea." 

To  stop  the  squirt  of  bogus  "  Anglo-Saxon  ■" 
with  which  your  pages  are  from  time  to  tiso^'^ 
besmirched,  would  it  not  be  desirable  t*^ 
require  from  every  contributor  professing  t.^^ 
supply  Anglo-Saxon  etymologies  a  oerti^*^ 
cate  that  he  had  actually  found  the  words  w- 
an  Anglo  Saxon  dictionary?  I  am  sure  ^ 
should  gladly  submit  to  such  a  rale  ;  and  mt  i 
do  T\o^  doMbt,  would    my  friend    PE^»    o 


\^ 


^.  K.R.  MUBBAY 


9*s.vilapiiil6,i901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


271 


BURSAMES  (9"*  B.  vii  28,  m,  235).— A  corre- 
?&poiidentp  thinks  it   worth  while  to  favour 
*  N,  &  (J/  with  the  fond  fancies  of  a  vener- 
able friend  about  his  own  surname,  to  the 
effect  that  "  Prynne  i«  the  only  family  name 
which  oecurs  in  the  '  Anglo-Saxon  ChrouicH* 
which  ia  the  oldest  historical  record  we  have 
of  English  history.    It  was,  it  appears,  the 
family  name  of  the  last  king  of  Kent/'   Now, 
really,  your  correspondent  ought    to  have 
turned  up  the  *  Chronicle*  before  inflicting 
theae  venerable  figments  upon  *  N.  <fe  Q.'    He 
wonld  have  founri  that  the  last  king  of  Kent 
in  794  was  **  Eadbrvhti  ^am  was  ojier  noma 
neraned  Vrmn  " ;  and  a  high- school  girl  would 
h&ve  told  him  that  Prmn  was  not  a  "family 
name,"  and  that  Prmrt  wa^  not  and  could  not 
have  become  Fiymie.    But  much  allowance 
is  to  be  made  for  people,  venerable  or  other^ 
when  they  rumiuate  upon  their  family  name, 
I  bad  a  respected  fnend  surnamed   Catiin^ 
who  believed  that  he  waa  descended  from  a 
Iloman  Catiline— not  the  notorious  one  com- 
memorated by  Sallust^  but  ^'another  man  of 
the  same  name  ''--who  oame  to  Britain  with 
Julius    Ciesar,    stayed    behind     when    the 
Romans  left  the  island,  married  a  Britiwh 
heiress,  and  bequeathed  hl»  cognomBn  as  a 
surname   to  his  descendant>^,   who»  my  in- 
formant added    with  feelings   '*have  never 
been   very  numeroua/*    And   I  kue^w  a  re- 
spec  table,     if      humble     family     surnamed 
Bttlnam^   who  carried   their  ancestry  much 
farther  back.    My  wife  once  had  a  member 
of  this  family  as  maid,  and  this  maid  confided 
to  a  fellow -servant  the  notable  fact  that  her 
great-grandfather  once  owned  an  ass  that 
spok€5.    **  It  was  perfectly  trtie^  for  it  said  so 
b  the  Bible  ;  her  father  nad  once  nhown  her 
Che  place  where  it  told  all  about  it^  and  he 
Haid  that  that  was  his  own  grandfather,"  Un* 
fortunatel  V  she  could  not  now  find  the  place 
ii  the  Bibloj  and  the  fellow-servant^  being  of 
a   sceptical   turn,  disbelieved   that  any  aws 
ever  i^poke,  and  appealed   to  lier  mist  res**, 
The  latter  showed  her  the  place  in  the  Bible, 
^^tit  told  her  that  that  happened  long  ago  in 
wi©  days  of  miracles  ;  she  feared  it  was  too 
'otig  ago  for  these  Balaams  to  be  connected  \ 
*«ri©  suspected   if  there  was  any  connexion 
*ti   was  with  the  asa  rather   than   the  pro- 
^oet.    A  worthy  Scotch  friend  of  mine  from 
^  berdeenshire  claims  to   belong    by  lineal 
?*-*^Hcent  to  the  oldest  family  in  the  world, 
i^^^fore  which  Balaams  and  Catlina,  and  even 
^  *\?nnes,  must  l*are  nHcreut  head«.    His  sur- 
^^me  is  Adam.    I  suHpcct  that  his  descent 
^^^-Jiri  Adam  is  a  good  deal  more  cert-aia  thin 
?|^at  of  the  Fr^nnes  from  Pi^n*    A  geoluKiH  f , 
^^wev©r,  feniindj   tne   of  a   much    eaiJicr  i 


ancestral  being,  called  Emom,  down  in  the 
Laui-entian  rocks.  He  adds  that  there  are 
still  Eamm  in  the  *  London  Directory.'  If 
IN.  &  Q/ia  really  going  in  for  this  sort  of 
thing,  why  should  it  bother  about  Praen 
and  the  Frynnes,  who,  like  the  rest  of  us,  "are 
of  yesterday,  and  know  nothing/'  when  so 
much  may  be  said,  etymologicalJy  and  his- 
torically, for  the  venerable  Emfmn  and  the 
EaaonsV  J,  A,  H,  Murray. 

Oxftird* 

P.S,— For  the  sake  of  the  sober  antiquarv, 
I  may  add  that  I  after waitis  incidentally 
came  across  the  name  of  a  former  member  of 
the  Balaam  family  under  the  Hp<^lling  Bal- 
ham.  The  analogy  of  Clapham,  Hatcham, 
Peck  ham,  and  tbouaands  oi  other  surnames 
derived  from  place-names  inclines  one  to  take 
this  aa  the  original  form.  But  Balaam  used 
to  be  pronounced  hke  Balham  or  Bahlara  (ray 
grandmother  aaid  the  latter),  and  probably 
some  parish  clerk  who  had  Ui  enter  the  name 
took  It  upon  hira  to  conform  it  tci  the  Bible 
spelling. 

One  surname  was  extingui^ihed  bv  an  Act 
of  the  Scottish  Parliament  abolishing  for 
ever  the  name  of  Huthven  fand  decreeing 
that  the  barony  of  Rutlivcn  slujuld  be  known 
as  the  barony  of  Huntingtower)  in  conse- 
quence of  tlie  attack  on  King  James  by 
Huthven,  Earl  of  Qowne,  in  August,  1600. 

R.  B. 

Upton, 

St.  I^atrick  s  Day  (9*"*  8.  vii.  223).-The 
four-leaved  shamrock  is,  I  suppose,  the  four- 
leaved  clover,  though  it  is  by  no  means  certain 
that  the  true  shamrrjck  was  a  clover.  For  its 
"  si>ecial  significance  "  see  Folkard's  *  Plant- 
Lon^'  or  Fncnd's  '  Flowers  and  Flower-Lore.* 
It  is  scarcely  worth  while  to  burden  the 
column^i  of  *  N.  k  Q/  witli  wliat  is  so  easily 
accessible  in  all  books  of  the  class  of  those 
referred  t4>.  C.  C  B. 

VULiiAH  Mrs^UiSK  OK  **  llUiHT'*  (9*^  S.  vii.  49). 
-The  Wiird  is  in  general  use  here  in  the  sense 
given  in  the  quotations  by  F,  H.  We  say  a 
pcrnon  "liax  no  right"  to  do  a  certain  thing. 
I  do  not  think  it  vulgar  or  a  misuse  ;  it  may 
be  pi"ovincial.  H.  B— R. 

8outh  61iieltla. 

"Hun^nma  aboot"  O***  R,  vii.  165).— If 
Lincoln  CiIiki:n  hearrl  this  expix?8sion  for 
the  fipf^t  time  in  Lincolnshire  but  a  few  days 
ago.  \m  niust  ytardon  me  for  sayinjf*  that  his 
verdancy  '\h  not  autocbt\vm\c.  ^q  \u^  W. 
seems  both  faraiWat  Bbm\  sai\A^%WUi\^  ^  ^"^^jt^ 
confess  I  &m  d\^ap\w3mtM  W  ^t\^  \3tvaX»  m^* 


272 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9^  s.  vil  apbo.  e,  i9eL 


Peacock,  who  has  helped  uh  to  kmin  tho 
speech  of  Mariley  and  Corringhain,  notes 
kutrh  up  only  in  hU  *  Glossary,  and  under 
that  reierN  the  cousultant  to  kitek  up,  which 
in  surely  standard  Englinh.  That  he  glanaes 
"  to  pull  or  push  upward^"  and  he  Rives*  this 
delightful  example  of  ita  use:  *' He  didn't 
wear  gal lowse?!,  soa  he  alas  hed  to  be  hitcliin* 
up  his  breechesJ'  Galloimts  will  ije  accept- 
able to  those  who  are  juat  now  interesting 
themselve^i  in  thiaaynonym  for^'auiypenders," 

St.  Swituin. 

A  phrase  in  con?jtant  use  '*  here  and  every- 
where "  probably  thaio  fifty  years  imst.  In 
old  schoolflay.s  of  "  three-aquai-e  form  '*  cla^sea, 
when  over  certain  lessons  two  classes  joined^ 
the  word  was  in  making  roonj  far  all : 
"  Now  then,  hutch  up  3  "=get  close  together. 
EeiAtless  people  and  cfiildren  are  always 
hutching  filifjtUf  but  the  kut eking  in  clothing 
was  consideretl  to  be  suggeative  of  fleas  and 
BO  forth,  Thos.  Ratuuffe. 

Workaop. 

Hut^h,  v.,  is  a  dialect  forra  of  himch.  Ifunck- 
bti4:ked  ^  humj}-/Mi€ked.  Tli«  dUIect  has  it 
hul^A'kicked.  See  *H,E.D/  under  *  Hunch/ 
Kalliwell  gives  kutc/i,  to  shrug. 

Arthur  Mayall. 

This  is  equivalent  to  our  local  term  Aotch- 
imffibout  yee  unfler  *  Hotch '  in  Miss  Baker's 
*  Glossary  of  Northamptonshire  Words  and 
Phraser.  John  T.  Page, 

West  Hiuldon,  Northamptonshire, 

TiNKHAME  Family  (O*-^  S.  vii.  CJB).— There 
is— <»r  wa,s  in  1877— a  fiamlet  or  grtmp  of 
houses  (some  miles  to  the  north-west  of  the 
ix>st'Ujwn  of  Mattapotsett,  Mass.,  U.S.) 
known  as  Tinkham  Town,  whicli  was  said, 
if  1  remember  aright,  to  have  been  peopled 
by  settlers  of  that  name  from  the  old  Punt«n 
colony  at  Rochenter,  not  far  distant. 

E,  Li£oa-Weekes. 

HuME'a  PoKTRAiT  (9^''  S.  vii.  188J.— Walter 
Savage  Land  or  bought,  in  Bath,  a  jjortrait  of 
David  Hume  which  he  believed  to  be  by 
Ramsay,  and  he  gave  it  to  Thomas  Carlylo. 
But  Landor^«^  pictures  were  not  always  by  the 
artists  to  whom  he  attributed  them. 

Stephen  Wheklee. 

In  the  Scottish  National  Gallery,  Edin- 
burgh, is  a  fine  portrait  of  Hume  in  oils,  half- 
length,  which  mav  be  the  one  inquired  after. 
He  iB  represented  as  wearing  a  scarlet  coat, 
a  point  hice  cravat,  and  lace  ruffles  covering 
his  hands*  There  is  a  small  vignette  of  this, 
engr&ved  by  8*  Fryman,  prefixed  to  voL  i,  of 
the  cabinet  edition,  1834,  of  Hume  and  SmoV- 
JeWti  'HiMtory  ot  England.'    lu  ammbei^V 


'  Dictionary  of  Eminent  Scotsmen '  is  a  long 
memoir  of  him,  but  unaccompanied  hv  any 
engraving,  John  PicxforDj  M.A. 

Newbourue  Rectoi^,  Wotxibridge, 

John  Parr,  Mayor,  1773  (9^  a  vii.  149)- 
Jobn  Parr,  merchant  of  Liverpool,  who  twice 
served  the  oflSce  of  bailiff  of  Liverpool,  was 
mayor  of  that  town  in  1773. 

John  Radcliffe. 

*' Wabbling"  (9"^  S.  vii.  1G8).— Whether 
Prof.  Skeat's  explanation  in  his  'Etym.  Di«?t.' 
of  tmtbble  as  '  ■  a  frequentative  of  ira/>,  whap^ 
to  flutter,"  be  accepted  or  notv  it  is  hardly 
povssible  to  deny  the  cognation  of  the  word 
with  the  pro V  i  ncial  Oer man  wabbdn^  to 
wabble.  \Vabhk  therefore  appears  to  be 
not  only  the  correct  spelling,  but  the  older ; 
for  it  was  nsed  more  than  two  hundred  yeart 
ago  by  Moxon  in  his  *  Mechanick  Exerciaes.' 
(See  quotation  by  Johnson,  who  calls  toahU* 
'*a  low  barbarous  word,"  seemingly  in  ignor- 
ance (if  the  spelling  wMdt,)  Halliwell  gives 
wabidv  as  a  Northern  form,  and  imbUe  as  that 
of  various  dialects;  but  wofMe  may  have 
come  from  the  pronunciation,  ais  formerly 
squobbk  from  sqtm^Ue.  F,  Abamb. 

Halliwell  Webster,  and  *Tbe  Imperial 
Dictionary*  use  the  "w^ab''  formafcion.  The 
fullest  explanation  is  to  be  found  in  the  last. 
A  a  notation  is  given  from  May  hew  i  "(By  stilt- 
wal  king)  the  knees,  which  at  first  are  weak  and 
tvabUy,  get  strong.*^  The  derivation  is  from 
provincial  German  walMi%  to  shake.  A 
well-known  Lancasbira  dialect  eKpre^saion 
runs  "  as  wambly  and  slampy  as  a  bucket  o' 
warp-sizin' "^n  Other  words,  quaking  more 
than  a  jelly.  Arthur  Mayall. 

The  dictionaiies  in  my  posseetsion^  while 
recognizing      "  wabble "     and     "  wabbling,' 
do  not  include  **  wobble '\  and  "  wobbling' 
The    'Encyclopaedic    Dictionary*    describes 
"  wabble  ^'  an  **  a  weakened  form  of  w*rppt€.i^ 
frequent,   of    ?wt/*-to    flutter,  to   beat  Im 
wings'";  and  suggest**  comparisKin  **with  Lev 
German  i&abbdn^  quabbdn= to  wabble;  pfo^ 
vincial  English  rfmMe^=&  bog,  a  qu^mire. 
ita  illustrative  quotation  is  from  the  Timftm 
21  October,  187B  i  "The  wabbling  of  the  sM* 
owing  to  the  imperfect  fit,  has  b^n  the  gie*J 
drawback."     Jamieson    regarded    the  ^od 
with  its  variant  **  waible  **  as  Sa>ttiih,  arid  lo 
his  dictionary  sugg^ts  that  it  is  posi^ibly  ^ 
variety  of  wevil^  to  wriggle.*'     "  Wabblinff, 
and  not  "  wobbling,"  is  the  current  form  ^ 
Scotland  to  day.  Thomas  Bayns- 

\     "  P\^K0F.N,"  A  Gbost-word  (9**'  8.  vii.  3*^ 


9*  8.  Vn.  April  6. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


273 


dissent  from  his  o|)inion  that  ^Wio#m— pine- 
seed  13  not  a  genuine  and  lawful  word  oofch 
in  Portuguese  and  in  English  as  borrowed 
therefrom  in  commerce.    If  pifihmnii  in  its 
legitimate  plural,  m  he  adroita,  is  it  not  the 
cougio  germane  to  Cas^tillan  pifloiie^  ?    And 
ia  not  tne  singular  of  this  piufm  f    Caatilian 
a  is  the  equivalent  of  Castilian  nh,  French 
gn^  and  Catalan  nt/  as  in  mty  ( -  French  fin), 
saunded   ayn   almost    Therefore  pinkoen  is 
f/rima  facie  correct.    Plu  rals  are  not  gen  eral  ly 
mada  before  or  without  their  singular.    In 
modem  writing  it  became  /miAdoi  =pinhaon\ 
but  the  n  is  stUl  resonant  in  the  ending^  and 
the  phonetic  equivalent  to  English  ears  is 
nearly  jnnyaung.    One  needs  only  to  think 
of  French  fngnon  and  Italian  pitjnone  to  see 
that   the   n   han   every  right   to   be   there. 
Pinhoen  would  pass  into  pi-nhoe^  and   then^ 
by  false  analogy  with  other  words  ending 
in  a/m  or  00  {=iiung)y  into  ^'jilulo.    It  would 
be  better  if  the  Portuguese  would  give  up 
the  tiide^  as  a  sign  of  the  omission  of  n^  in 
such  words  as  cdo^  for  instance^  and  write 
ottf/n,   the  equivalent  of  Castilian  can^dog. 
The  "  representing  it  does  not  come  between 
the  a  ana  the  »,  bu t  after  them.    0 the r wise  mo 
would  aing  cano,    Qpmmo^  on  the  other  hand, 
corresponds  to  opinion  in  French  and  Cas- 
tiliatif   and  opinwne  in  Latin   and   Italian. 
The  name  of  the  town  of  Guinuit'deB  may  be 
seen  in  at  least  one  inscription  spelt  Gmnyx- 
m^fv^    There  does  not  seem  to  be  any  need 
for  it  either  in  such  plurals  as  germs^  where 
it  shows  merely  that  the  /  of  gender  (=Cas- 
tilian  gen^ralts)  has  been  left  out.    Whether 
pinhdo  or  pinkoen  comes  from  pint^  through 
pin/io  or  pinJai  directly,  or  has  been  tainted 
m  ite  descent  by  the  formation  of  other  words 
beginning  in  pefi  or  phi^  in  a  larger  question 
for  student^  of  Low  Latin  and  the  medieeval 
Romance  dialects.     It  often  happens  that  a 
foreign   word    in   a   language   remains  un- 
changed for  centuries  in  its  new  hornet  while 
iu   the  ruother  tongue  whence  it  came    it 
ttiidergoesi  the  general  decadence  or  trans- 
foinaatiou.    Pinhoen  is  a  relic  of  old  Portu- 
K^Qese  which  a  Camoes  or  Camoens  would 
certainly  respect.  E.  S.  Dodgson. 

The  Portuguese  singular  in  pinhdo^  plural 
PinhSeSf  the  pronunciation  of  which  latter  is 
wly  rendered  by  Acosta's  pignrjm  quoted 
hjr  Me,  Flatt,  According  to  the  Brazilian 
dictionary  of  Valdez,  the  purging  nuts  ai-e 
'^Hown  as  innhdo  das  Itidias. 

E.  E.  Street. 

Old  Ma&riage  Custom  in  Yorkshire 
ww»  S,  vii,  208).— The  following  facts  about  a 
*^«i^abire  achool  may  bo  given  to  ii/ustrate 


J-  B.  W/s  reference.  Harland  and  Wilkin- 
son s  'Lancashire  Folk-lore '  (ed*  1867,  p.  265) 

says  :— 

"  An  ancient  custom  prevaih  at  Burnley  Gram- 
tiiar  8«hool,  by  which  all  peraon*  morried  at  St. 
Peter's  Church  in  that  town  are  fined  bv  the  boys. 
As  soon  as  a  weddine  in  fix^,  the  pariflh  clerk  in- 
f arras  the  boyu,  ana  on  the  clay  &p|)i>inted  they 
depute  two  of  their  number  to  wait  upon  the 
groomsman  and  demand  a  fee.  There  ia  no  fixeii 
eum  named,  but  enoaj|h  is  got  to  purchase  books 
and  tnaintain  a  tolerable  library  for  the  use  of  the 
pupils.    Former  pupiU  always  pay  a  liberal  fine," 

The  above  Mr.  Wilkinaon  was  an  a^istant 
master  at  the  Hchool.  The  present  Bishop  of 
Carlisle,  in  giving  in  the  Preston  Herald^ 
27  August,  1887,  an  account  of  his  school- 
days at  Burnley^  said:— 

"  As  often  as  there  was  a  marriage  at  the  parish 
church  it  woa  the  dutv  of  the  senior  boy  {^ic\  at  the 
Burnley  Grammar  Hchool  to  wait  upon  the  happy' 
bridegrcKim,  and  rvjquest  a  present  for  himself  and 
school  oompanlonsj  whieh  was  never  denied.  The 
fines  thus  levied  were  devoted  to  library  puni^^^'^^ 
not  the  school  library,  which  wa«  in  the  oak  room^ 
but  the  boys'  library,  which  was  supplied  with  aome 
of  the  best  periodical  literature  then  published, 
such  aa  tho  rtnng  MoffaiifiiS,  StUurtiatf  Maffazijtt^ 
and  Basil  HalFs  titories  of  adventure  and  peril/* 

Another  gentleman,  writing  in  the  same 
paper,  say  a  : — 

"'  Tho  soholars  of  the  Burnley  Gmmmar  School 
hail  the  privilege  of  sendiuf;  two  of  the  head  bovii 
to  all  not«d  weddings  to  dou>and  *  tribute^  from  the 
newly  married  cruii^le,  and  the  funds  were  devoted 
to  the  cricket  club,  which  was  at  that  time  the  only 
one  in  Burnley." 

1  believe  Mr,  R  G.  Hamerton,  another  pupil» 
in  his  autobiography  alludes  to  the  custom  ; 
anrl  I  think  he  Ktatei  that  tho  money  w^  not 
<le voted  to  auch  laudable  objects  as  the  above, 
hut  I  have  not  a  copy  of  the  book  here  to 
refer  to.  I  may  add  that  during  my  head- 
master ship  (1877-97)  I  was  solicited  on 
several  occa.**ions  to  reaucicitate  the  practice  ; 
bub  it  neeiued  to  me  hardly  in  acoordance  with 
the  dignity  of  a  grammar  school,  and  it  was 
never  done  so  far  as  I  know,  I  surmise  the 
custom  ceas©<i  about  IB70. 

J.  Langfield  Ward,  MA. 
Hath. 

Towns  wnrcn  havk  cuanised  their  Sites 
C9^"  S.  vii.  206)."!  hope  your  readem  will 
freely  contribute  to  thi«  list,  and  that  1  may 
yet  succeed  in  convincing  your  incredulous 
correspondent  who  some  years  ago  tried  to 
hold  up  to  ridicule  *Hhe  strange  theory" 
{propounded  by  me)  "  that  as  Old  [river] 
Hull  griMJually  warped  up,  the  inhabitants 
of  the  former  Wyk  moved  off  Uv  \,\m  'ei^a  ^'L 
the  latter  [the  new  U>wn\  ft^eix  V'c^wv^  "Omsw: 
dwelling-bouses  witVi  iWm**  ^%^  "^/^^^  Vl.^^* 


274 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,      [o^s.  viLApRii.e.i»i. 


By  way  of  parenthasia  I  may  mention  the 
fact  that  the  further  evidence  which  waa  to 
give  the  trmp  de  f/rme  to  the  said  stranRe 
iht!orv,  and  was  then  *' shortly"  to  be  pub- 
lishea,  is  still  comiog,  though  seven  years 
have  elapj^ed, 

I  know  of  other  three  towns  that  have 
chitngecl  their  sitas,  namely,  Thorn,  Elbingi 
and  Marien  werder  ^  all  three  in  Prussia 
(cf.  ZdfAckrift  dt»  wmtpreiim&cAen  Gf- 
Mchic/itmfereim,  xxviii.  2);  and  I  remember 
havin|<  re^  of  the  same  kind  of  stranf^e 
bcihaviour  of  a  sixth  town  aornewhere  in 
India,  L.  L.  K. 

Jessb  and  Belwyn  (9"^  S.  vii,  12S,  I78j- 
—  On  the  title-page  of  his  '  Summers 
Day  at  Eamfjton  Court'  (Murray,  1840) 
Jesse  iy  de«cnbed  an  ** Surveyor  of  Her 
Majesty's  Parkft  and  Palaces."  The  preface 
ia  dated  "Hampton  Court,  July  25,  1839/' 
and  at  the  end  of  the  book  is  a  note  stating 
that  "  Persons  may  obtain  permission  to  copy 
the  ^jictures  on  application  to  the  Chief  Com- 
missioner of  Her  ifajesty's  Woods,  or  to  the 
Author  of  thi^  Volume  at  Hampton  Court." 

JowN  T,  Fa*ie. 

W&it  H addon,  Nortkamiitf^nshire. 

Stanbuky  uf  Devon  and  Cornwall  (9*^*' 
S.  viL  128).— In  Lieut-Col.  Vivian'**  *  Visita- 
tions of  Cornwall/  at  pp.  443  and  444»  there 
is  a  pocHgree  of  Stanbuiy 

Jahbs  Peacock. 

8uiidGrkij(L 

Madai«k  BoNTEWFH(fl**'  8.  vii,  16D).— The 
French  translation  of  Thomson's  *  Seasons* 
C  hm  Saisons ')  by  Madame  Bontemps,  with 
plates,  waspublianed  in  Paris,  17*'i9,  and  may 
possibly  be  seen  in  the  library  of  the  South 
Kensington  Museum. 

EvERAED  Home  Coleman. 

71,  HreukucHik  Road, 

TitE  IlEV.  Jamks  Haluane  Stewart  (0^ 
S>  vii.  8B).— This  gentleman  waj^  B.A.  Exeter 
Coll.  Oxon.  1843,  M.A.  lB4a  Ho  wan  ordained 
deacon  by  tlio  Bishop  of  Oxfoi'd  in  1847,  and 
priest  by  the  Bishop  of  Winchester  in  1848. 
He  was  i>erpetual  curate  of  Cmwhurst, 
Surrey .^  from  1850  to  1855,  when  he  was  ap- 
pointed i*ec  to  r  of  Mil  I  b  rook,  Sou  t h  am  p U^ju . 
Chab,  F,  Foeshaw,  LKD. 

Bradfcjrd. 

La^    (Unon    (9^^    S.    vii.    148,    197).— My 

thoughts  w«^re  ^xed  too  exclusively  on  the 

poHt-lleformation    Englitih  Churcli.     Earlier 

ihuii  th&t  a  lay  I u an,  even  as  a  child,  some- 

6imm  enjoyed  the  income  of  a  canonry,  ami 

thmvfure  had  ^omo  claim  to  tlic  titlti  ^)t  Va^ 


canon,  though  he  did  not  keep  the  rw/nf. 
Examples  of  this  will  occur  to  others,  but 
just  now  they  do  not  to  ma     St.  SwithiK- 

"MaNURANCK"  {9^»*  S.  vii,  125),--lt  would 
be  interesting  to  have  more  details— such  as 
the  contexts— showing  your  esteemed  con- 
tributor's reason  for  the  sense  h©  attaches 
to  this  word.  It  occurs  in  the  dictionaries 
with  the  meaning  "cultivation/'  which  is  the 
natural  outcome  of  the  plain  and  direct^ 
though  perhaps  not  well-known,  etymology 
of  the  word  ''  manure,"     Arthijk  Mayaia. 

St,  Clement  Dani^  (9^  8,  vii.  64,  1T3).- 
I  am  sure  youi^  old  and  valued  corres^pondent 
Me  Everard  Home  Coleman  will  forgive  me 
for  pointing  out  that  the  quotation  which  he 
gives  from  Dr,  Worsaae's  book  liai*  no  bearing 
whatever  on  the  question  of  "our  Danish  in- 
vatlera  and  their  connexion  with  the  foun- 
dation of  the  church  of  St  Clement  Danes.'' 
Dr.  Worsaae's  theory,  which  he  pats  as  a 
mattfH"  admitting  of  no  doubt,  is  that  the 
churcli  was  called  after  the  Danes,  not  only 
because  so  many  Dane44  were  buried  in  it^  but 
because  the  Danish  merchants  and  mariners 
who.  for  the  sake  of  tiwle,  were  at  that  tim« 
established  in  or  near  London,  had  there  a 
place  of  their  own  in  whicli  they  dwelt  to- 
gether i%3i  fellow-countrymen,  Dr,  Woniaae 
does  not  specify  the  exact  period  which 
answers  to  that  time,'*  but  it  must  have  been 
long  after  the  time  of  Canute,  when  the 
Danish  invasions  came  to  an  end.  That  the 
Danish  colony  in  Lonflon  had  a  settlement  in 
the  vicinity  of  St.  Clement's  Church  may  be 
taken  for  granted,  but  this  fact  does  not 
answer  the  question  which  was  asked  regard- 
ing the  dedication  of  the  church.  The  corre- 
spondent of  the  Morning  Pmi  whom  I  ouotaj 
stated  that  the  church  was  dedicated  during 
the  pontificate  of  Pope  Clement  IL,  A.a 
104ti-7,  and  was  named,  in  complioieut  to 
him,  after  his  patron  Pope,  Bt  Clement  L 
If  this  theory  is  correct,  and  the  church  was 
not  in  existence  till  IfHO,  the  corpse  of  Harold 
Harefoot  cannot  have  been  buried  in  the 
churchyard  in  1040.  It  seems  to  me  more 
probable  that  tlie  dedication  was  originally 
a  Itoman  one,  like  tho4*e  of  St.  Paul  ana 
St,  Oi^igory,  and  that  the  church  reoeiv^it^s 
specific  designation  from  the  Danes  when  ^m 
settlement  of  that  people  was  formed  in  its= 
neighbourhood.     Scandinavian     dedication^ 

exist  in  London,  as  the  churches  of  St.  Magiiu 

and  St  t)lave  remain  to  tell  us,  but  St.,  CIt=^= 
ment  was  not  distinctively  a  Scandinavia*^ 
saint.  I  am  abroad  at  pi*esent^  and  cann^czz) 
I  look  up  my  references,  but  perhaps  one 
Y^ox^T  ^^vr^x^tA'^XLW  \a^  be  &ble  to 


9"  8.  viL  apbil  6. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


276 


when  the  famous  churches  of  St.  Clement 
at  Hastings  and  St.  Clement  at  Sandwich 
were  built  and  dedicated,  and  if  those  foun- 
dations had  any  connexion  with  the  Danes. 
I  should  also  he  glad  to  learn  the  original 
authority  for  Dr.  Worsaae's  statement  that 
the  body  of  Harold  Harefoot  was  buried  '*  in 
the  Danes'  churchyard  in  London,"  with  the 
Latin  text  of  the  chronicle  in  which  thestatr 
ment  is  found,  and  should  also  be  obliged  for 
references  to  the  "Ecclesia  Sancti  Cleraentis 
Danorum."  In  the  majority  of  cases  thi^ 
qualifying  term  is  certainly  **  Dacorum." 

W.  F.  Prideaux. 

Your  correspondent  has  hit  upon  a  very 
interesting  point  in  his  note  on  the  connexion 
between  the  church  of  St.  Clement  and  n 
settlement  of  Northmen  close  by  it.  But  k 
is  quite  clear  that  the  connexion  oetween  the 
Northmen  and  St.  Clement  was  older  than 
the  pontificate  of  Pope  Clement  II.,  wbo, 
moreover,  only  occupied  the  Papal  throne  for 
nine  months.  Absalon  Taranger,  in  his  book 
on  '  The  Influence  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  Church 
on  the  Norse  Church,'  writers  thus  about  the 
foundation  of  Nidaros,  now  Trondhjem,  by 
Olaf  Tryggevesson  :— 

•*The  foundation  of  Nidaros  was  likewise  an 
important  step  towards  the  strengthening  of  Chrie^ 
tianity  in  tbc  Northern  districts,  and  about  Christnia^s 
909  a  church  was  consecrated  there  to  Clement, 
patron  of  seamen's  voyages."* 

Here  we  find  King  Olaf  founding  a  church  of 
St.  Clement  within  five  years  of  the  time  when 
he  received  confirmation  at  the  hands  of  St. 
iElfheah.     It  is  to   the  great  Viking  who 
kept  his  peace  with  the  England  to  which  he 
owed  his  Christianity,  ana  not  to  any  far- 
away   and    short-livea  Pope,  that  the  con- 
nexion between  St.  Clement  and  the  North- 
inen  is  due.     The  dedication  of  the  church  at 
Kidaros  was  certainly  followed  elsewhere,  foi^ 
«  short  time  after  its  consecration  Olaf  sent 
«  nciission  party  to  Iceland  with  instructions  to 
build  a  church,  with  timber  which  he  supplied, 
on  the  spot  where  they  first  came  to  land.  They 
landed  on  one  of  the  Westman's  Isles,  to  the 
Qouth  of  Iceland,  and  there  on  the  site  of  an 
old  heathen   temple  they  set  up  a  church, 
dedicating  it  in  tne  name  of  the  same  saint> 
"^he  consecration  of  whose  church  at  Nidaros 
^hey  had   attended  before  their  departure. 
The  island  now  bears  the  name  of  KJemens- 
^rlt    And  if  through  the  influence  of  King 
v)laf  and  his  church  at  Nidaros  the  dedication 
t»  St.  Clement  was  carried  as  far  as  Iceland, 


'  Absalon  Taranger,  *  Den  Angelsaksiske  Kirkes 
j^flydelse  paaden  Norske,'  Kristiania,  1890,  forste 


T  Taranger, 


161. 


there  would  be  no  wonder  that  it  should  reach 
London  also.  No  doubt  the  tradition  that 
St.  Clement  suiBfered  martyrdom  by  being  tied 
to  an  anchor  and  cast  into  the  sea  caused  him 
to  be  venerated  by  sailors,  and  the  anchor 
which,  at  any  rate  till  quite  recently,  formed 
the  vane  of  tne  church  of  St.  Clement  Danes 
commemorates  the  legend.  It  would  bo  inter- 
esting, if  it  were  possible,  to  trace  the  origin 
of  Olaf  s  special  veneration  for  St.  Clement ; 
but  beyond  the  facts  that,  according  to  Norse 
tradition,  ho  was  baptized  in  the  Scilly 
Islands,*^  and  that  he  was  certainly  con- 
firmed at  Andover  by  St.  -/h^lfheah,  nothing 
seems  to  be  known  of  the  circumstances  of 
his  conversion.  C.  S.  Taylor. 

Banwell  Vicarage. 

"Mary's  Chappkl '*  (9"^  S.  vii.  168).— This 

is  most  probably  the  chapel  or  church  of 

St.  Mary,   Hog  Lane  (subsequently  Crown 

Street  and  now  Charing  Cross  Road),  which 

Hogarth  also  drew  in  his  plate  known  as 

'  Noon.'      Hogarth    was     apprenticed    to    a 

silversmith  named  Ellis  Gamble  in  the  imme- 

I  diate  vicinity  (Soho).      I  do  not  know  the 

ticket  which  A.  W.  F.  refers  to,  but  he  had 

I  better  compare  it  with  the  easily  accessible 

I  *Noon.*      I   possess   a  curious    emblematic 

I  print  lettered  *  Crown  Street  Chapel,  Soha' 

designed   by  J.  Rees,  and  engraved   by   H. 

Folkard,  260,  Regent  Street;  but  I  am  not 

I  sure  whether  this  refers  to  St.  Mary's  Church 

or  to   a  Wesleyan    chapel    which    used    to 

nourish  in  Crown  Street  or  Hog  Lane. 

Edward  Heron- Allen. 
May  one  point  out  that  **  Jane  "  is  really 
**  Jane  I,"  meaning  Jane  Ireland  ?  The  coun- 
terpart of  the  ticfcet  faces  p.  43,  vol.  ii.,  of 
Samuel  Ireland's  *  Graphic  Illustrations  of 
Hogarth.'  This  information  is  given  in  Mr. 
Austin  Dobson's  *  William  Hogarth  '  (Kegan 
Paul).  The  particular  reference  is  p.  275, 
^here  the  ticket  is  marked  with  a  query  as 
l)eing  doubtful.  Arthur  Mayall. 

*  Book- World  '  (9"»  S.  iv.  48,  95,  251  ;  vii. 
177).— James  Macfarlan's  poem  *The  Lords 
of  Labour'  appeared  in  unabridged  form 
in  the  Pall  Mall  Gazette  of  15  June, 
1889.  I  have  not  a  copy  beside  me  of 
'  N.  &  9.'  with  my  reply  to  a  former  query 
concerning  the  author  of  *  Book  -  World,' 
and  am  consequently  uncertain  whether  it 
in  information   regarding  James   Macfarlan 


himself  or  his  lines  entitled  *The  Poet' 
that  Mr.  Hemming  desires.  Macfarlan 
has  been  dead  thirty-nine  years,  and  is 
now  almost  entirely  forgotten.    WVv^xv  xJcv^ 


TaTai\?^eT,V2^- 


276 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [fl^s.viLApRii.6.i90L 


character  of  his  surroundings  is  borne  in 
mind,  and  the  adverse  fortune  that  was  his 
habitual  lot  during  his  brief  life  of  thirty 
years,  an  additional  interest  pertains  to  his 
verse — verse  that  is  invariaoly  in  all  his 
work  (and  he  issued  several  small  volumes) 
above  the  level  of  mediocrity.  Macfarlan 
was  a  master  of  verbal  melody,  and  to  the 
exalted  thought  and  ricli  fancy  that  charac- 
terized his  poems  he  united  an  appropriate 
though  somewhat  ornate  diction.  I  subjoin 
the  opening  stanza  of  *  The  Lords  of  Labour' 
and  two  typical  verses  from  *  The  Poet ' : — 
TuK  Lords  of  Labour. 
They  come,  they  come,  in  a  glorious  march  ; 

You  can  near  their  steam-steeds  neigh 
As  thev  dash  through  Skill's  triumphal  arch 

Or  plunge  'mid  the  dancing  spray. 
Their  bale-fires  blasse  in  the  mighty  forge, 

Their  life-pulse  throbs  in  the  mill, 
Their  liehtnings  shiver  the  gaping  jzorge, 
And  tneir  thunders  shake  the  hill. 
Ho  !  these  are  the  Titans  of  toil  and  trade, 

The  heroes  who  wield  no  sabre  ; 
But  mightier  conquests  reapeth  the  blade 
That  is  borne  by  the  lords  of  labour. 

The  Poet. 

Love  had  he  felt  in  one  wild  rush  of  dawn. 

That,  bright'ning,  deepen'd  into  lustrous  day, 
Then  slowly  pass^of,  o'er  life's  stern  hills  withd.rawn 
In  sunset  rich  away. 

With  calm,  stem  Nature  in  the  wilds  he  trod— 

Felt  the  commanding  joy  that  awes  and  thrills 
When  some  wild  sun-bursty  like  the  glance  of  God, 
Smote  all  the  wond'ring  hills. 

John  Grigor. 
106,  Choumert  Road,  Peckham. 

In  *The  Poets  and  Poetry  of  Scotland' 
(Blackie)  is  a  short  notice  of  James  Macfarlan. 
Six  of  his  poems  are  also  given,  including 
'Book- World'  and  *The  Lords  of  Labour? 
I  shall  be  pleased  to  send  Mr.  Hemming  a 
copy  of  'The  Lords  of  Labour '  if  he  will  give 
me  nis  address.  John  Patching. 

199,  Ditchling  Rise,  Brighton. 

May-water  (9^*»  S.  vii.  149).— The  notion  is 
very  widely  diflPused.  See  Pepys's  'Diary,' 
28  May,  1667  ;  11  May,  1669.  And  what  says 
the  poet  ? 

With  the  dew  from  May-buds  shaken 

Oft  the  damsel  wets  her  face, 
Oft  she  bathes  her  golden  ringlets ; 

Shines  she  then  with  heavenly  grace. 
Many  an  eye  that 's  red  with  weeping 
Finds  how  fresh  the  dew-drops  are ; 
8oon  beholds  how  friendly  shineth. 
Dim  with  mists,  the  morning  star. 

The  poet  is  Uhland  ;  the  translation  is  mine. 
Walter  W.  Skeat. 
This  belief  is  not  uncommon  in  the  Mid- 
landa,  with  this  difference— that  it  is  attached, 


not  to  the  month  of  May,  but  to  Ascension 
Day  only.  Rain-water  failing  on  that  day, 
caught  as  it  falls  from  heaven  in  a  clean 
vessel,  will  keep  sweet  anv  length  of  time, 
and  is  good  for  many  opnthalmic  troubles 
—  so  it  is  said.  It  is  sometimes  called  '^  holy 
water,"  because  it  falls  on  Holy  Thursday. 

W.  C.  B. 

In  Lincolnshire  June-water,  which  should 
be  caught  as  it  comes  down  from  the  clouds, 
is  a  remedy  for  eye  diseases. 

In  Sweden  the  rain  which  falls  in  May  is 
thought  to  be  peculiarly  beneficial  ^  and  Ger- 
man children  run  out  into  May-rain,  crying, 
"  May-rain,  make  me  tall  '*  (Rochholz, '  Drei 
Qaug6ttinnen,'p.  55).  According  to  the  same 
authority,  April-rain  and  May-dew  are  highly 
esteemed  in  France  (p.  57),  and  Easter-dew, 
in  common  with  midsummer-dew,  is  still 
credited  with  curative  properties  among  the 
Teutonic  nations  of  the  Continent ;  pro^bly 
because  several  solar  superstitions,  properly 
belonging  to  the  spring-tide  eauinox,  or  to 
some  more  ancient  sun-festival  tailing  about 
that  time,  have  become  linked  with  Easter. 
The  summer  solstice,  sacred  among  Christians 
to  the  great  baptizing  saint^  seems  to  have 
been  connected  with  well- worship  and  ot^er 
water  superstitions  for  unknown  a^^ ;  and 
it  would  appear  that  the  spring-tide  rain, 
which  helps  to  feed  and  develope  vegetable 
life  while  the  sun  is  progressing  towards  his 
midsummer  glory,  is  held  by  many  nations 
to  have  eminently  beneficial  qualities.  The 
idea  is  natural  enough,  for  the  waxing 
power  of  the  great  luminary  and  the  spring- 
tide rain  and  dew,  taken  together,  fill  the 
world  with  a  luxuriant  growth  of  blades, 
leaves,  and  flowers  such  as  is  seen  at  no  other 
time.  P.  W.  G.  M. 

T.  F.  Thiselton  Dyer,  in  his  *  English  Folk- 
lore,* says  :— 

**In  the  neighbourhood  of  Banbury,  in  Oxford- 
shire, the  rain  which  may  happen  to  tall  on  Holy 
Thursday  is  carefully  preserved  and  bottled  as  a 
specific  remedy  for  sore  eyes." 

As  Ascension  Day  or  Holy  Thursday  happens 
forty  days  after  Easter  Sunday,  it  is  only  ^ 
on  occasions  that  it  does  not  occur  during^ 
the  month  of  May.  which  mav  account  forsi 
the  extension  of  the  period  for  which  th 
virtue  is  to  be  found  in  the  rain-water  falling 
in  Wales.  Everard  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Anglo-Hebrew  Slang  :  "  Kybosh  "  (9*^  £ 
vii.  188). — Mr.  Hebb  asks  the  meanins  of  \  ~ 
phrase  "  to  put  on  the  kybosh."    It  has 

meanings,    depreciative    and    appreciativ    

\TVv^  lox\xv,w\&\W  wvly  one  in  the  aictioiMHrk lii 


9^  8.  Vn.  April  6, 1901.]        NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


277 


even  in  Henley  and  Fanner,  but  the  latter 
exists,  neverthelma,  I  find  a  good  example 
of  it  in  that  inte  res  ting  book  *  The  Autobio- 
graphy of  a  Oyp^y  *  (189 IX  where  the  young 
thief  aaya  of  the  old  thievm,  "  They  VJ  put  the 
kylxjsh  on  me  in  no  time,"  meaning  that  they 
would  perfect  him  in  liis  profession,  not  tliat 
they  would  stop  or  silence  him.  Similurly* 
k^ffosh  used  alone  has  both  depreciative  and 
appreciative  senses-  One  can  say,  "  That  n 
all  kybosh"  {i.e^  nonsense),  or  ''That's  the 
proper  kybo«ih "  (lU,,  "  the  thing ").  Curiously 
enough,  Hotten  gives  only  the  depreciative, 
whereas  the  *  Century  Dictionary  '  gives  only 
the  appreciative  sense.  Worth  noting  is  the 
ingenious  use  ol  M.  Quibosch  aa  a  proper 
name  by  the  late  O.  A.  Sala  in  one  of  nis 
short  stories  ('The  Grand  Duche«g^)  in  Bel- 
gravia^  186S. 

Lastly,  kybfisk  as  a  dang  terra  for  ei^hteen- 
peoce  may  or  may  not  be  connected  with  the 
above  ;  but  I  should  like  to  add  that,  although 
the  etymology  proposed  for  it  by  Mr.  Davis 
(anttL  p,  10)  is  possible,  there  is  another 
equally  possible  m  the  field.  The  point  in 
diipate  is  the  origin  of  the  second  syllable, 
which  mgnifies  *' pence"  (compare  mfOoJi, 
sixpence),  Mjl  Davis  derives  it  from  jyishet^ 
but  I  have  always  understood  that  it  was 
from  Hebrew  ^2^  the  initials  of  BtMen-StUher, 
J  AS-  PlatTj  Jun. 

77,  St.  Mftrtin^a  Lane,  W.C. 

In  my  schooldays  we  talked  about  "kybosh," 
and  used  the  word  in  various  ways,  A  boy 
teUing  a  yarn  which  the  rest  could  not 
•'awatlow"  would  be  greeted  with  the  derisive 
words,  "Now,  none  o^  yer  kybosh  !"  "It's 
all  ky bosh  ! "  another  would  say*  It  was  also 
used  in  the  sense  of  giving  a  hiding  ;  **  I'll 
givB  him  what  for  I    Pll  give  him  kvbosh  ! " 

I  can't  do  with  him  ;  he  s  so  much  kybosh" 
<^ooling,  nonsense),       Thos.  Ratcliffe. 

Worksop. 

**  Ky bofih  **  is  a  wid  ely  k  n  0  w  o  t rad  e  word .  I 
have  neard  it  used,  practically  every  day,  for 
the  last  forty  odd  years — not  in  one  locality 
only,  but  in  all  parts  of  England.  "  Where  .s 
the  kyboeh  ?"  ^*  You  had  better  kybosh  it  a 
bit^"  IS  a  query  and  recommendation  that 
may  be  constantly  overheard  where  architec- 
tural sculptors  are  at  work,  "Kybo<*h"  in 
"Portland  cement ;  **to  kybosh"  is  to  throw, 
"with  blowpipe  and  with  brush,  this  dark  dust 
into  the  deep  recesses  of  carved  stonework, 
^  that  the  latterls  shadows  may  become 
^tendfied,  and  thua  augment  the  general 
good  effect  of  the  ornamentation.  The  accu- 
tnulation  of  dust  upon  statuary  helps  its 
*PpeftraTice.    A  sculp^r  wotjH  look  ask^Lnoe 


upon  the  Injudicious  intruder  into  his  studio 
wlio  suggested  dusting  his  piaster  casts. 
What  time  floes  in  this  way  to  enhance 
shadow,  judiciously  applied  "kybosh"  does 
for  new  work  in  a  few  minutes.  There  ia 
other  trade  term  for    **  kybanh/'    It  is 


Haery  Hemh. 


"  kybosh,"  pui'e  and  aimpla 

Fair  Park,  Exoter. 

"Become "(9th  g^  y^  i65).-On  Tyneside 
this  word  is  in  use,  but  not  in  the  uense  of 
**  advisable."  *' It  doesn't  become  her  t(j  be 
so  impudent,"  or  it  is  not  becoming  of  her.  I 
should  say  the  labourer  used  the  word  in  the 
s^ense  that  the  person  spoken  to  wa-s  in  hia 
place  or  within  his  rights  in  being  present 

R.  B-H. 

Houth  Shields. 

**  Become  "  is  in  use  amongst  the  older  folk 
here  in  the  same  sense  as  shown  by  I^jnl'oli* 
Qrkisn,  and  alno  in  the  converse  sense.  "  No  I 
it  didn't  become  me  to  have  a  say  in  it."  Not 
long  ago  I  heard  an  old  man  say,  **  [  was 
elacl  be  become  while  I  was  doin'  it,"  In 
fact,  ^*  become  "  is  used  in  various  ways, 

Thos.  Ratcliffe, 

Workacjp, 

D'AuYERONE  Family  {9*^S.  vii.  68,  117,  178, 
191,  £51),— Surely  the  answer  to  the  question 
how  Vice- Admiral  Philip  D'Auvergne  came 
by  the  title  of  Duke  or  Prince  of  Bouillon  is 
that  he  assumed  it.  As  for  ofhcial  recogni- 
tion, there  is  not  much  in  that.  Foreign 
titles  which  would  not  bear  investigation 
have  frequently  been  recognized  by  the 
House  of  Commons,  the  *Arniy  List,'  and  the 
*  Navy  List.*  It  would  be  interesting  if  Mr, 
AKDEitBON  would  give  any  evidence  for  the 
statement  that  "  he  was  again  put  in  posses- 
sion of  the  duchy,  of  which  he  had  been 
despoiled  by  Napoleon,  but  was  finally 
deprived  of  it  by  the  Congress  of  Vienna." 
The  protocols  of  the  Congress  of  Vienna  are 
pubhc  property,  and  the  Duke^  of  Bouillon 
whose  claim  was  investigated  were,  I  believe, 
not  connected  with  the  Channel  Islande 
D^Auvergnes. 

It  is  nut  worth  arguing  the  statement 
about  peers  of  France.  There  can,  I  imagine, 
be  no  doubt  that  the  British  admiral  was 
not  a  peer  of  France  in  any  senne  of  the 
term,  unless  indeed  Louis  X VlIL,  while  in 
England,  may  have  made  his  acquaintance 
and  thought  it  wise  to  please  him,  D. 

Authors  OF  Books  (9^"*  S.  vi.  509).—*  E^say 
on  the  Ruin  and  Recovery  of  Mi^TvklmV^  &.ct^ 
Lond.,  1840,  l^mo»  wbs  wtWiterL  \i^  \it  A-^aa^^ 
Watts  ;  *  A  letter  to  lAm\itvt\  ^^i^V^  ^.0A?^ 


278 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [»*8.vii.  April  6.1901. 


on  the  Latter  Parto!  the  Report  of  the  Select 
Committee/  Ac,  hoxid,,  17RS,  8vo,  by  Capt. 
pJoseph  Price.  John  Radcliffe, 

London  Churches  O^^fS.  vii.  169).— During 
the  year  1854  tlie  Hoeiety  of  Antiquarie8 
mldres^ed  the  Home  Secretary,  praying  him 
to  adopt  raensures  for  securing  eopieH  of  the 
»epulchml  inHcriptions  in  the  gmveyards  of 
the  City  churches  then  aljout  to  be  removed  i 
but  Lorr]  PaJmeri*t<:in  did  not  see  liow  he 
could  interfere*  and  T  doubt  if  anything  in 
that  direction  wm  dona  The  only  work 
witli  which  I  am  acquainted  h  *The  New 
View  of  London,'  in  2  vols.,  1708,  which  gives 
the  prindpal  monumental  inHcriptionsi  in  the 
existing  London  churches  at  that  date.  Your 
valued  correspondent  Mit.  John  T.  Paok 
publif^hed  in  the  J*Jft$t  -  End  New\  lietwoen 
%  October  and  2  Navember,  IS9G,  the  in- 
scription n  in  old  Stepney  Church,  and  from 
17  June  to  12  August,  Il^9<j,  those  which  were 
legible  in  the  churchyard.  Between  1869 
and  1875  Mr.  F.  1\  Can  wick  issued  in  three 
volumes  the  -  Curious  and  Interesting  Epi- 
taphs in  the  Ancient  Church  and  Burial- 
Grounds  of  St.  Pancras,'  *  The  Cemeteries 
and  Churchei  of  St.  Pancraa  Parish,'  and  the 
*  Churches  and  Churchyards  of  Hornsey, 
Tottenham,  Edmonton,  Enfield,  Friern  Bar- 
net,  and  Hadley,*  all  in  the  county  of  Middle- 
sex. EvERARD  Home  Colbman. 

71,  Breeknoek  Boad, 

The  interiors  and  monuments  generally 
are  carefully  described  in  the  late  George 
Godwin's  *  Churchei*  of  London'  (1839),  In 
George  A,  Birches  suxjerh  work  entitled 
'London  Churches*  (1896)  many  of  the 
old  cenotaphs  may  be  seen  in  the  exquisite 
illustrations  it  contains.  Neither  author, 
however,  seems  to  have  noticed  the  ancient 
bi'asAea.  Harry  Hems, 

Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

In  the  ejLrly  seventies  was  published  *  Eccle- 
siastical Antiquities  of  London/  by  Alex. 
Wood»  M.A,,  a  small  8vo  volume  (London, 
Burns  &  Oates)*  If  I  remember  right,  it 
contained  the  information  desired  by  Muss. 
Cope. 

Jerome  PotLABoURQunART,  0,S.B. 


NOTES  ON  B0OK8.  &c, 
Mpihn  &f  Gretcc  Expiaitt^d  and  iJa/e/L     By  G*iorit« 

St,  CUir.    2  vob.    (WiJliamB  &  Norgate.) 
A  mcftsD  title  of  Mr.  8t.  Clair  h  work  deftcribea  it 
^  '**"  ^f^Mtned  history  from  Urftnus  to  Vfetae\ia 
fiiuitjding  the  Ehminiadi  Mysteries  and  th©0\ympi 


Games."  Wide  as  is  the  range  thu«  indicated,  tbe 
two  volume*  irouatitate  hut  half  the  ineditat«?d 
occcimitlishment,  and  are  to  be  auci^eedcd  by  a  cmi- 
lirvu&tiQu  carrying  th6  history  to  the  tinteii  of  the 
'Iliad '  antl  the  ^  Odysaey,'  and  comprising  an 
aceoiint  of  the  BtorieR  of  Thebes,  the  I&lMjunt  of 
Hercuke,  the  voyage  of  the  Argonttul«,  and  oth<?r 
matters-  Discontented  with  the  exTilanationa  of 
myths  hitherto  attemiit&d,  Mr.  Kt.  Clajr  aims  at 
stiowiug  for  the  iirdt  time  that,  so  far  frtim  havifit; 
variuuH  orij^iiia  duo  to  the  vagnries  of  human  faii<;y, 
theHo  niythn  hsue  one  fjommon  basiH  and  are  organie- 
ftUy  eonneijtfld  from  begimiiTiK  to  end,  "This  \msh 
ia,  he  holds,  '*  the  ob«er\'atioo  of  the  seaaons,  the 
qtudy  of  the  heuveiily  bo<1ieB,  and  the  attempt  to 
frame  a  correct  caloiidar/*  Thai  the  myths  «rt 
cloficly  (xinrkeoled  with  astronomical  i^enomeoa 
has  long  been  knoM^n.  The  mere  names  of  s^iele 
siara  And  constellfttious  attest  abiind^intly  this 
truth,  li  IH  u  looK  step  from  perrention  of  thi» 
aeJf  evident  fnct  to  the  acce|itfttice  of  Mr.  i?l,  tJUir'i 
conclusions,  fu  a  piuia^gc  of  hia  |ir«face  he  my^ 
*■  The  secret  of  tireece  ia  an  allegory  of  H^tronony 
and  the  calendar.  The  facts  and  phenomena  of  the 
heavens  were  the  ha^sis  of  the  rc^ligious  system*  The 
priests  were  astronomers,   the   iLstronomera  were 

Iiriest^     The  mythology  is  their  n*cord— a  religioas 
listory  embalmed."    Somewhat  further  on  in  the 
preface  be  niakt^a  two  appeals  to  bin  critics.    One  of 
these  Is  jo  St  ice  itself*     His  lx»ok  is  ttj  be  judgt^i  by 
those  only  who  have  read  it.     A  second  poatulate  is 
that  it  18  to  be  reviewed  hy  those  only  who  under- 
stand astronomy.     With  tho  e&rlicr  condition  *e 
have  complied.     That  we  have  anfficient  knovb  ledge 
of  astronomy  to  icrosp  the  wholt^  ^ignidcaoce  of  h'ii 
argument  we  will  not  say.     Umler  these  condHigns 
we  will  refrain  from  criticism^  and  so  meet  his 
wielioft.    It  is  obviously  impcwaible  to  it  ndy  aitro- 
non;y  afri^b  for  the  purfiose  of  reviewing  a  siEigle 
work.      Besides,  the  power  to  acquire  and  nUin 
Astronomical  knowledge  is  not  univerftally  diSfiiiied, 
and  there  fkv&  those  to  w^hom,  when  the  rei.-eptive 
period  of  youth  it  over,  the  labour  would  be  Irnit- 
leas.    We  will  deal,  aijcordingly,  with  port i out  only 
of  his  work.      Hia  opening   chapters^   which    are 
partly  hiatorical  and  j tartly  eon tro vers sah  are  ex- 
cellent.   Attenipta  to  demonstrate  a  principle  of 
unity  in  mythohigy  have  hitherto  b^en  vain.    Con- 
siatency  is,   however,   Mr,  Hi.  Clair  holds,  to  be 
found  when  once  we  have  the  key»    Nowhere  can 
we  **  take  a  myth  and  find  it  clear  c^nt  from  ail  saso- 
ciations  with  the  myths  around  it.      All  are  but 
parts  of  one  wide -spreading  whole  %  and  the  whole 
mythology  is  a  system/'    The  difj^culties  b^  which 
we  are  confronted  are    Che    same    by   whR-h    the 
ancieiita  were  beset,  and   those  who  receii'ed  the 
mythic  traditions  knew*  even  less  than  we  what  to 
make  of  them.     They  go  back  to  a  time  so  ancient 
that  Herodotus  understandis  llt^^rnllv  the  rape  oC 
Helen  and  the  lieige  of  TroVp  and  Plutarch  hold 
that  the  Egyptians  of  his  nay  did  not  know  the 
meaning  of  their  own  i^^phin^es.     Panaanias  is  al 
one  time  on  the  t>oiDt  of  making  some  revelati< 
eoneerning  the  KkumoiAu  mysteries,  but  receirei^ 
in  a   dream   a  warninii:  that   preveets   him  frorziz 
speaking.     Lu^ian  turna  pioua  mvths  into  Hdicid^ 
with  a  frt^ediim  that  caused  the  Christians  to  claii^B 
hi  m  a«t  an  ally  or  a  believer. 

Dealing  with  the  various  explanations  ftttemple^^ 

Mr.  St.  Clair  shows  how  all,  froni  the  theories ^    ^ 

¥:tix\\^THL\«.T\^%  \ja  Wvowe  of  tho  modem  anthropokgis^K- 

IbKV    Vo    tu^^X   X"^  x«c)^ve«sc^es^%    iiC    the    oi^m 


•'V 


9»s.vilapwj.6,i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


279 


Huhemerism  ih  beiil  still  to  prevail  with  the 
public,  and  to  find  a  certain  sanction  from  Mr. 
Merl>ert  Spencer.  The  views  of  the  naturaliaLs 
&re  still  dear  to  the  writers  in  dictionarif^s ;  ih£i 
lic^iats  now  doubt  the  theories  of  Max  Miiller  -, 
whil«  the  folk-loriaU  are  headed  by  Mannhardt, 
Frazer,  and  Tylor,  and  to  a  certain  extent,  aa  a 
aort  of  tighter  for  his  own  hand— a  modern  Ciow 
Uhrom— by  Mr.  Andrew  Lang.  The  wesakne&a 
in  all  these  syBtema  Mr.  bt<  Clair  shows,  aod 
he  then  propound g  hia  own,  the  nature  of  which 
we  have  already  indicated.  For  the  method  in 
which  this  ia  worked  out  we  must  refer  the  reader 
to  th€  hook.  We  cannot  explain  in  a  column  what 
occupies  seven  to  eight  hundred  pages,  aud  have  not 
enough  knowledge  of  astronomy  to  criticisee  the 
Byffi^nL  We  can  but  say  that  the  book  is  a  re- 
markable product  of  industry^  ingenuity,  and  eru- 
dition. It  overflowM  with  conjecture,  but  it  is  also 
a  mine  of  information  and  a  work  that  may  be 
studied  with  unfailing  gratification  and  delight* 
Some  few  slips  we  trace,  and  one  wliieh  we  assuino 
to  be  a  mistake,  when  '  The  First  Skei«h  of  English 
literature '  is  assigned  to  John  Morley  instead  of 
Henry  Morley* 

Af/rtd  (ht  Urml.   By  Warwick  H.  Draper,  (J^tock.) 

Mr,  0R.1PE11  gives  lis  an  agreeable  moiiogrtiph  on 

King  Alfred  as  a  oontribution   to  the  millenary 

€«kEtiation  of  the  monarch's  death.     It  is  ushered 

m  fay  a  preface  from  the  Bishop  of  Hereford*  and 

accompanied  hy  numerous  illuatrationa  of  varying 

dmees  of  merit.     Of  the  work  itself  it  may  bi 

laid  that  it  improvca  as  it  proctedfl.    The  opening 

iketch,  which  makes  no  pretence  to  complete nesd« 

is  a  little  disappointing ;  the  seven  studies  which 

follow,  and  deal  with  Alfred  in  his  dilTerent  aspects 

ind  in  relation   to  bi^  surroundinp,  are  satiafac- 

tt»ry  and  instructive.      We   are  throughout  in  a 

land  of  miet,  if  not  of  fog,  and  there  is  not  much 

of  which  we  can  be  certain.     The  myth  that  pre- 

aeaia  Alfred  as  the  founder  of  Oxiord  University 

il,  af  course r  unworthy  of  a  raom©nt*8  credence. 

!rho  Taloe  of  the  life  by  Asser,  which  still  continues 

file  chief  source  of  information,  has  been  fiercely 

«ODt«tt«d,    though   a   conaensus   of   opinion   now 

^eclftres  that,  whatever  interpolations  have  been 

made  in  it,  the  basis  is  genuine.    The  destruction 

\ff  £re  of  the    Cottonian    MS.    waa   a   calamity. 

-Am  engraved  facaimile  of  the  heading  aud  open- 

liu;  aentence  was,  however,  prejierve*!  in  the  1722 

coition  of  the  life  by  Asser*  aud  is  reproduced  in 

the  volnnie  before  us.   Mr.  Draper  sees  no  reason  to 

<ioubt  that  the  instructor  of  Alfred  in  letters,  or 

«t  least  the  person  who   insinred    him  with  the 

^eeolation  to  study,  was  his  stepmother  Judith, 

Trincev  of  Flanders,  an   idea   rejected  by  some 

mntboHtiee  aa  preposterous.     He  also  credits  the 

ling  with  the  distrihution   of   the   country  into 

mMrea,  which   Prof.   Freeman  reKarda   as    legend. 

Apart    from    matters    still    in    dispute,    enough 

Teuiaina   to    establish    securely   the    position    of 

Alfred  aa  one  of  the  few  great  rulers,  and  on  this 

liis  latent  biographer  dwells.    The  longest  and  nuitih 

the  meet  remunerative  chapter   in   tho   book    is 

thM  on  '  Alfred  as  Man  of  Letters.'    The  illustra- 

*««a,    thoingh    they    include    some    whimsically 

imiimaatftli^   pietures    by    Westall,    give  also 

■ooiB  |Qod  portraits  and  many  excellent  viewK  of 

«1»to  of  interest.     The  notes  cijmijrise  a  hiblio- 

Hiiphy.    We  find  a  use  of  the  woru  **seii-dog"  4ts 

*  Htm  of  repro»0h,  which  isj  to  say  the  letmt^  uq' 


familiar ;  "  Alfred  had  them  hanged  for  the  aea- 
dogs  that  they  were  "  ;  and  also  a  famous  quotation 
from  Milton  miaarranged  as  a  single  line,  The^w 
are  trifles,  and  we  have  detected  no  serious 
blemiah. 

The  April  number  of  Man  contains  loni?  essays 
on  *  Prehistoric  Egypt'  and  '  (ieorgia  Folk-lore,' 
with  an  illustrated  account  of  Cteladon  ware  from 
Siam  and  of  interesting  articles,  including  a  carved 
stool,  from  Ea.^t  Africa,  Mr,  Sidney  Hartland 
deals  with  the  new  edition  of  Frazer's  Mioldcn 
Bough/  and,  while  admitting  its  great  merits,  is 
not  wholly  in  agreement  with  the  author.  Prof. 
Ehys*s  *  Celtic  Folk-lore  *  and  Mrs.  Qomme^s  *  Old 
English  Singing  Games  '  are  also  disoussed. 

Aeteh  several  articles  on  army  alteration  or 
reform  appears  in  the  Nindetmh  CefUurj/  am 
iotiuiry  by  Mrs.  William  Mahood  after  *The 
Modesty  of  Englisbw^omen,*  Far  too  delicate  a 
matter  is  this  for  us  to  enter  njion.  We  do  not 
see  that  the  ordinary  drawing- room  dress  of  an 
English  lady  is  wholly  inspired  by  the  worship  of 
modesty  ;  but  we  are  not  entitled  to  speak  on  the 
subject.  The  writer  is,  however*  of  opinion  that 
"women  do  many  things  today  which  would  have 
filled  people  wUh  genuine  shame  and  horror 
fifty  years  ago/*  la  it  accident  or  tlesign  that  so 
arrank«a  matters  that  the  next  article  is  on  *  Emigra- 
tion for  (Jeutlewomen 'J  It  is  clear  that  if  young 
gentlewomen  follow  out,  as  is  counselled,  their 
brothers  to  colonial  farms  a  more  ]>rimitive  and 
pastoral  state  of  affairs  will  be  brought  about,  and 
there  will  be  a  revival  of  njodosty  amon^  those 
who  depart,  *  Robert  Browning  the  Muj^ician,'  by 
Miss  A,  Goodrich  Freer^  id  inLeresting  in  its  way, 
but  shove's  that  an  exact  knowledge  of  music  i^a  not 
uece^ssarily  conducive  to  melody  of  versification, 
Home  of  the  greatest  motlem  poets*  Tennyson 
included,  had,  we  believe,  littfe  knowledge  of 
musical  science,  or  indeed  of  the  diflerence  between 
tunes.  The  Count  de  Hoii^sons  bos  an  appreciative 
article  ou/Augujstin  Rodin,*  the  great  sculpt'or. 
it  would  be  the  better  for  illustrations,  though 
these  as  yet  are  not  often  given  in  our  reviews. 
Mr.  W,  H.  Wilkins  writes  on  '  The  First  Queen  of 
Prussia* ;  Mr.  Stephen  Wheeler  on  *  Lord  Cur^ton  in 
India  ^ ;  and  Lady  Priestlev  has  a  very  interesting 
paper  on  *  Thts  Bacteria  Beas  of  Modern  ^sanitation. 
— *  Two  Notes  on  Charlei  Lamb/  by  E.  V.  Lucas, 
which  appoar  in  the  Foriniffhliff,  have  great  interest. 
The  ^iTlier  ia  ooncemed  with  ''the  finely  appre- 
ciative and  cordial  critique"  which,  according  to 
Cowden  Clarke,  Lamb  wrote  for  the  Mominy 
Chrvnittt.  Search  after  this  has  hitherto  been 
vain,  Mr.  Lucai*  maintains,  however,  with  much 
show  of  reason,  that  Clarke's  memory  was  at  fault, 
and  that  the  crititjue  in  question  was  contribntodi 
not  to  the  MoniiH^  C/Aro?i»c/t\  but  to  the  jVitio 
Times.  The  article  unearthed  from  the  latter 
periodical  has^  in  fact,  every  sign  of  Lamb^s  fine 
jiair  aud  appreciative  insight,  whik  the  views 
are  those  to  the  expression  of  which  he  and 
Ijeigh  Hunt  were  accustomed.  Note  XI.  ^luotos 
an  utterance  of  Lamb»  not  previously  reproduced 
by  his  editors,  which  justifies  Thackeray  a  use,  in 
regard  to  Lamb,  of  the  term  *^  Saiut  Charles*/'  Mr. 
Andrew  Lang,  unwearied  in  his  opposition  to  Mr. 
Frazer,  now  shows  the  untenahility  of  the  theory 
as  to  the  Ouuifixion  expounded  in  ^h^  \a\fc  ^\^«\qw 
of  *  The  U  olden  Boug'ia.*  ^4^\Ve.  VtnT^^x^^a  ^  SX. 
in  a  sentence  or  two  to  fehQ'w  yi\>»^  ai*  ^*  -^-mNA 


280 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     t9^8.vn.  apeii.6.isioi. 


r*f  difference,  Th«  lecLuco  on  *  French  Poetry  of 
To-day/  delivered  m  March  l&at  at  the  Taylorian 
iBatitute  by  M>  Emile  Verhaereii,  is  printed.  It 
deals  largely  with  the  work  of  VerlaiTii?,  MallartsH^i 
Mid  Baudelaire,  tkn  indeed  wiili  that  of  Lamartine 
and  Victor  Hugo*  Mallarme  i«  r^arded  aa  a  sym- 
bolist jiar  car^-f/Zcji^rt.  Poeiria  of  thia  i^asaiooate  and 
sensuous  writer,  which  offer  extreme  ditficultv  to 
the  Avera^  Eugliahman.  are  interpreted.  The 
entire  article  is  thouii^htful  and  sugj^estive.  Mr. 
H.  G.  Wells  in  'An tici patio ns'  deala  charac- 
teriBtieally  with  forthooraiiig  meatia  of  joconiotion, 
—As  a  frontispiece  the  Pml  Mall  haa  a  delightful 
reproduction  of  Greuze'fi  t^icture  '  The  Dairymaid,' 
Next  in  order  comes  a  patNsr  by  the  late  Charles 
Yrlarte  on  Jean  Fran^iois  Milletj  who  is  described 
aa  *The  Great  Peasant  Painter.*  This  gives  a 
deeply  in  teres  ting  account  of  the  struggles  of  a 
man  whonr  Fate,  food  ba  aha  is  of  eavage  irony, 
treated  with  except ionat  cruelty.  It  fiui^jpUes  a 
portrait,  pictures  of  his  birthplace  and  residencesj 
and  photograjihs  of  many  of  his  best-known  paint- 
toga.  *  The  Black  City/  by  Sir  W.  B,  Richmond, 
shows  the  pollution  of  London  by  suioky  chimneys, 
which  contiuoea  in  apite  of  all  efforts  at  repres- 
sion. We  hear  til  V  wish  auecess  to  Sir  WiUiam 
in  his  cruaade.  Mr.  Howard  Heusnian  gives  an 
instructive  account  of  *The  Uganda  Railway/ 
Among  the  chances  of  the  workman  or  the  traveller 
figures  that  of  being  carried  off  by  a  lion.  Some 
startling  stories  are  told  Mr.  Lecky'a  'Queen 
Victoria  ae  a  Moral  Force'  has  attractefl  much 
attention*  Mr.  Archer's  * Conversatioo  with  Mr. 
Thomas  Hardy'  has  abundant  iutereat.  Remt- 
jiiscenees  of  Verdi  *  and  '  The  Training  of  our 
Officers'  nwy  atao  be  commended  to  7>erusal.— 
Mr.  A-  E.  Etousman  aenda  to  the  ConiJiill  a  very 
clever  and  amuaiog  *  Fragment  of  a  Greek  Tragedy/ 
Lady  Broome,  who  is  the  possessor  of  a  most 
attractive  style,  describes  *  Interviews*;  and  Mr. 
Aleicander  lanes  Shand  ^ives  a  readable  oceount 
of  *  Monboddo  and  the  Old  Scottish  Judges,*  Mr. 
W.  J.  Fletcher  supiUieg  a  spirited  account  of  the 
fight  in  the  Channel  between  the  Nymphe  and  the 
Cleopatre,  Part  III.  of  *  A  Londoner's  Log- Book ' 
and  Wo.  IV.  of  *  The  Blackstick  Papers*  are  ffiven  : 
and  the  Rev,  Dr,  Fitchett  continues  his  *  Tale  of 
the  Great  Indian  Mutiny/  and  deals  with  the  Esloge 
of  Cawnpore,  *  Australian  Memories/  by  Mr.  F.  G. 
Aflalo,  inspires  a  warm  deairo  in  the  reader  to  visit 
the  mjots  deacribod.  *  The  Gift  of  the  Mahatma/ 
by  Mr.  Horace  Hutchinson,  is  a  striking  niece  of 
imaginative  narrative. — ^  Two  Centres  of  Moorish 
Art,  which  appears  in  MSnUmer^n^  is  by  Mr.  I'M  win 
Lord  Weekes.  It  deala  princijially  with  the  arehi- 
t«ctunil  featurea  of  Moi-ooco,  and  is  admirably 
illustrated  bv  the  author.  The  most  interesting 
spot  depicted  is  EUbat^  a  place  seldom  visited  by 
Lnglishmen,  or  indeed  by  Europeans.  It  ia  im- 
mediately opposite  to  Sa1lee»  of  evil  reputation, 
and  seems,  even  in  theao  days,  to  be  a  not  very  safe 
or  convenient  spot  for  European  travel  or  residence. 
More  convenient  of  occeaa  is  Cordes,  which  is 
described  with  ^n  and  pencil  by  Mr.  Ernest 
C.  Feixotto,  A  view  of  it,  taken  from  the  foot  of 
the  hill  or  mountain  on  which  it  stands,  serves  aa 
frontispiece.  *The  Southern  Mountaineer'  gives 
Rome  atrikinL'  uictures  of  life  jn  a  Virginian  log 
Ciibiii^  We  fail  to  ^rasp  the  signiticance  of  the 
title  *Nattsicim,'  njs&igiwd  a  uketch  of  American 
/f/e,  Mrs.  irilhevt's  *  Stage  Reniini8c<?nces'  m%  <juti- 
tinned.     *The  M^rveh  of  Science'  is  ingeaVouaV^ 


conceived.  *  Skipper/  a  story  of  a  horse,  has 
good  coloured  illustrations.  —  Mr.  Lang  is  at 
his  very  best  this  month  in  *At  the  Sign  of 
the  Ship*  in  Longman\  and  discourses  most 
entertainingly  on  a  variety  of  subjects,  chiefly 
literary.  The  new  book  of  Mr.  Baildon  concerning 
Stevenson  receives  special  attention.  Mr.  Thomas 
C'ooke-Trench  has  an  edifying  and  agreeable  paper 
on  *  Ancient  Herbals.'  Madame  Necker  is  described 
in  *The  Women  of  the  Salons.'  Mrs.  Clement 
^Shorter's  *  The  Dean  of  Santiago  *  is  a  good  Southey- 
like  story,  told  in  spirit-ed  verse.  *^Joe  Thome's 
*'  Vi'let" '  is  touching.— The  most  important  article 
in  the  Oentleman^a  is  Mr.  Karl  Blind's  account  of 
'  Sir  Francis  Barry's  New  Excavations  of  Brochs.' 
Miss  Georgiana  Hill  tells  with  spirit  the  striking 
story  of  *  The.  Queen  of  Denmark  and  CoL  Keith? 
Mr.  Charles  C.  Osborne  gives  an  account  of  Francis 
Osborne,  a  namesake,  if  not  an  ancestor,  whom 
Judge  Parry  has  recently  edited.  Mr.  Ellard  Gore 
describes  '  Some  Recent  Advances  in  Stellar  Astro- 
nomy.*  Mr.  Harold  F,  Hills  deals  with  '  The  Por- 
tuguese Claimant  at  the  Court  of  Elizabeth.'  Many 
other  articles  of  interest  appear  in  what  is  an 
exceptionally  good  number.— The  contents  of  the 
Idler  remain  principally  fiction.  They  include, 
however,  under  the  title  *A  Dash  for  the  North 
Pole,*  a  highly  stimulating  account  by  Capt 
Willman  of  nis  sledge  journey  in  Arctic  regions. 
'  Hernande  de  Soto  *  describes  the  heroic  deeds  and 
adventures  of  the  discoverer  of  the  MississippL  A 
gossiping  and  discursive  paper  entitled  *The 
Philosophy  of  Idling*  replaces  '^The  Idlers'  Club.' 

New  editions  have  been  issued  by  Messrs.  Samp- 
son Low  &  Co.  of  Mr.  W.  T.  Lynn's  admirable 
works  on  'Celestial  Motions,* '  Remarkable  Eclipses,' 
and  *  Remarkable  Comets,*  the  value  of  which  isout 
of  all  proportion  to  the  low  price  at  which  they 
are  publisned. 

Ihrtioes  10  Curnjesgriml^iUitf . 

We  mtut  caU  aptdal  aUention  to  the  fMommi 

notices:— 

On  all  oommunications  must  be  written  the  name 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  for  pub- 
Ucation,  but  aa  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 
We  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately' 
To  secure  insertion  of  oommunioations  cone- 
spondents  must  observe  the  following  rules.  Lrt 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  sepsrste 
sup  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  lod 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answer 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  preriooi 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 

{>ut  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exsct 
leading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repeat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  oon* 
munication  "  Duplicate." 

E.  B.  ("Plow").— Surely  =  plough,  as  in  the 
Authorized  Version  of  the  Bible. 

/NOTICE, 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  address^  ^ 
"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries '  "-Ad verti*^' 
ments  and  Busineas  Letters  to  "The  Publi^h^r'^ 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Lauo,  ^^ 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  n^tant 
QoismraxiiQaitiQnB  which,  for  any  reasoti^  wo  do  ^*^ 
\\feai(»\  «D!i\A>i2b^rQ^^^tMa.vuJke  no  exoeptt^M^ 


aLAPEii,6.i90i.)      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 
THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 
THE  DRAMA. 


UKNMUM  for  March  30  eontaint  Articles  on 

MR.  CHILDBH8. 

of  ORBBCB. 

ON  of  ETHICS. 

bis  "WORK. 

lONATION  OUDBK8. 

X.8:— Lore  and  Honour;  ▲  UtUe  Grtj  8hMp;  ▲ 
»f  Cntlinj  ;  The  Banrivor  ;  Bfin  Spinney ;  Time's  Fool ; 
rnlej ;  RlTal  Claimants. 

lAL  LITBRATURB. 

>N8  of  the  8.P.C.K. 

RT  TABLB— LIST  of  MBW  BOOKS. 

iOOVBRBD  DOCUMENTS   of  the  BLIZABBTHAN  and 

kN   PBRI0D8;  The  WORD   ••  FRAIL";  The  TROUBA. 

The  FIRST  BDrnON  of  '  The  PILGRIM'S  PROGRBS8  ' ; 

I.  YONGE. 

Alto- 
0088IP. 

Beoent  PnbUcations  ;  Societies ;  Meetings  Next  Weeli ; 

:— Mr.  Lerros  at  Carfax's  Gallery ;  The  Newly  Disoorered 

)  The  Blyth  Sale ;  Gossip. 

lo  and  £Beas:  The  Masque  of  Lore;  Popular  Concert; 

oaie  Concert :  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 

he  Revolted  Daughter;  Library  Table ;  Gossip. 


^UKNAHJU  for  March  16  contain*  AHicUt  on 

NBR'S  HISTORY. 
ICB  of  LAST  CENTURY. 
SLAW  on  MR.  8WINHURNE. 
BCORD8. 

J  from  DR  CREIGHTON'S  WRITINGS. 
LS:— That  Sweet  Enemy:  The  Lost  Land;  The  Sin   of 
mdlsh ,  The  Girl  at  the  Halfway  House ;  Two  Sides  of  a 
;  According  to  Plato ;  Naomi's  Exodus ;  The  Mayor  of 
;  The  Master  Passion ;  Days  of  Doubt. 
FERATURE. 
UBS. 
PASTIMES. 

•Lines. 

KY  TABLE— LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

J)  MALBT^    SHIFTING  SCENES';  The  ROYAL  HIS- 

.    SOCIETY;    The    SPRING    PUBLISHING    SEASON; 

Also— 
BOSSIP. 

Jfe  of  Sir  John  Fowler.  Geographical  Notes;  Astro- 
rotes ;  Societies;  Meetings  Next  Wiek  ;  GossliT  ^^ 
-The  Cretan  Script;  The   Blyth  Engravings;    Sale; 

i  Week ;  Gossip;  Performances  Next  Week, 
le  Shakspeare  First  FoUo ,  Gossip. 


The  ATHRNjfiUMfor  March  35  oot^taimt  AtUcUm  on 

DR.  CUNNINGHAM  on  MBDLSVAL  and  MODBRN  ECONOMICS. 

The  GOOD  MAN  of  the  BIGHTBBNTH  CENTURY. 

FBRDINAND  of  BRUNSWICK. 

MOUNT  OMI  and  BBYOND. 

A  NEW  BOOK  on  the  CONSTITUTION. 

NBW NOVELS: -The  Church  of  Humanity;  The  Lesser  Bvil :  This 

^^  "'JB'*^'.*'®^*"'*.  *  *^«  *»•  RwUmpUon   of  David 
Corson ;  The  Shadow  of  Gilaland. 

LAW-BOOKS. 

RBCBNT  TBB8B. 

BOOKS  on  the  WAR. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABL&-LIBT  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

NEWLY  DISOOYBRBD  DOCUMBNTS  Of  the  ELIZABBTHAN  and 
JACOBEAN  PBRIODS;  MR.  0HARLB8  BUCKLAND;  SIR 
BDWARD  MALBTS  'SHIFTING  SCBNBS't  The  WORD 
"FRAIL  "i  8ALB;  '  YBOMANRY  or  MOUNTED  INFANTRY?' 
THE  SPRING  PUBLISHING  SBASON. 


UTBRARY  GOSSIP. 

BCIENCB— Aathropologteal  Notes ;  Disooveir  of  the  Hawaiian  Islands 

I.   iic^«.   Barly  Portuguese   •" '-      ~'^-    

Bocaatoal    Terms; 


16Ui   Barly  Portuguese   Travels;    -fhe   Btymology  of 

* —    « .-..    * Societies;    Meetings   ^ext  Week- 


Afrieaa 
Gossip. 


^'"Jl^'^Vi^'*?"'  *•»•  Shannon's  Work  at  the  Dutch  OaUery 
The  Blyth  Bngravlngs  i  Sales ;  Goeslp.  ' 

^^^-r^vpjiiMr  OoBoerts ;  Herr  Sauers  Planof  arte  Recital ;  Gossip  ; 
Performances  Next  Week.  '^  * 

DRAMA.SeU  's  the  Man ;  Geesip. 


The  ATHBtijEUMfor  March  9  contains  Articles  on 
8PBB0HES  of  OLIVER  CROMWBLL. 
MR.  CHURTON  00LLIN8  on  BNGL18H  UTER^TURB. 
FACT  and  FABLB  In  PSYCHOLOGY. 
THE  FESTSCHRIFT  to  DR.  FURNIVALL. 
NEW  NOVELS  :-AnneMalnwaring:   A  Narrow  Wav;    A    Path  of 

wfim* '  ^'•''•™ '  ****^  BilrerTTne  Emu's  Heai ;  Uls  Lordship's 
BOOKS  on  CHINA. 
BYZANTINB  LITBRATURB. 
AFRICAN  PHILOLOGY. 
The  WAR  and  the  ARMY. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  ot  NEW  BOOKS. 
'•  A  FRAIL  OF  FIGS  "  ;  SIR  HARRY  SMITH ;  ARCHBISHOP  SPOT- 

TI8WOOD  and  FATHBR  JOHN  OOILVIB ;  The  TROUBADOURS ; 

The  "  CHARLES  "  of  HORACE  WALPOLE'S  "  TRIUMVIRATB  "  • 

SALBS  ;  The  SPRING  PUBLISHING  SEASON.  ' 

LITERARY  GOSSIP.  ~ 

SCIENCE :-Ubrary  Table;  Dr.  G.  M.  Dawson;  Aitroaomical  Notes > 

Societies;  Meettngs Next  Week ;  Gossip.         —"»■""»««  "wes; 
FINE  ARTS :-Mortimer  Menpes's  Impressions  of  tlie  War;  Water- 

sSS^SJS^'*'  '^"•'''•'  **'  <*•  »•  **"^«  ■'  *«••  rNeterfroi 
MUSIC  :-The  Week  ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-Goselp. 


The  ATHENAEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREKPKNCR,  of 
HN    C.     FRANCIS.    AthenKum    Office^    Bream's  Buildings,    ChAucfttv  \.wvfe,  ^iCi. 
Aod  ot  aU  Ntwngtau. 


NOTES   AND    QUERIES.        [^  S.  VIL  April  6. 1901. 

Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DEPARTMENT 

THE  lOLLOwnre 

MAGAZINBS  AND  TTDPAPV    PHPTFQ  WITHDRAWN  FROM 

RBViKws.  JLiiDAiiril    vUJriJSiO  circulation, 

POSTAGE  FREE   to  aay  part  of  the   United  Kingdom  at   the  Prices   annexed, 

Until  further  noUoe  :— 
MAGAZINBS,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


JkMMVM 

*.     d. 

7    6 

Longman't       

13    0 

MaomiUan't      

10    6 

National  Review 

16    0 

Nineteenth  Century  ... 

7    6 

Pall  Mall          

5    0 

Revue  det  Deux  Mondet 

16    0 

Scribner-t         

9    0 

Temple  Bar      

...  5  0 

...  7  6 

...  15  0 

...  16  0 

...  8  6 

...  30  0 

...  1  » 

...  7  6 


Argoty 

Blackwood's      ...       ...       ...       ...       ...       ••• 

Century 

Contemporary  Review        

ComhiU 

BngUih  Illustrated 

Fortnightly  Review 

Harpers 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
Bdinburgh        7    6 1  Quarterly  7  » 

The  terms  will  be  1#.  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Sabscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalls  to 
have  the  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  thto 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAY  COMMENCE  AT  ANY  DATE.         

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  QREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.       H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  th^  Railway  Bookitallt,  to  which  place$  they  will  be  forwarded  carriage  free, 

THE  BOOKS  ARK  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  ^^>*jf^  ^ 

,   d.       *< 

OKNTURY  MAGAZINE.  The.    VoU.  17,  30.  and  22      each     8    6  ...  31  < 

ATALANTA  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  6     8    0   ...  «  • 

LONDON  SOCIETY.    2  vols,  for  1891  15    0   ...  3  • 

2  vols,  for  1892         16    U   ...  3  « 

CASSBLL'S  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1898,  to  May,  1899.    Illustrated ...  i  < 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       ...  »  • 

CHAMBBRS'S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURB,  SCIBNCB.  and  ARTS.    Vol.  for  1893 9    0   ...  3  6 

_-  .  -  J  j 

3  » 
S  « 
3* 
3* 
a  « 


Vol.  for  1895  . 
Vol.  for  1896  . 
Vol.  for  1897  . 
Vol.  for  1898  . 
Vol.  for  1899  , 


QUIVER  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  ApHl.  1898 

November,  1898,  to  April,  1899 

May  to  October,  1899 


9  U 

9  0 

9  0 

9  0 

9  0 


GOOD  WORDS.    Vols,  for  1888.  1892,  1894.  1895,  1896,  1897,  and  1898         7    6    ...        \  . 

6UNDAY  MAGAZINE.    VoU.  for  1889.  1892,  1894,  1895, 1896.  and  1898      9    U   ...         ^ 


W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Railway  Bookstalls,  to  which  places  Subscribers  can  be  transferred,  free  of  charge. 

ProipectUB  of  Term$,  ^e.,  moU  free  upon  applieatton  to  186,  HTHAND,  LONiX}A\ 


1  brJOHN  HOWARD  F&AMOIS,  Athea«umVt««.ttMam%)&«A4\an  Chaaeerr  Laa*.  aa  taad  PaUiake*  fef 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 

roB 

ITERARY     MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


^Whem  fraud,  make  a  note  ot"— Captain  Guttlb. 


PUOB  FOUBPSHOB. 


).  172.  [JLbiS.]  Saturday,  April  13,  1901.  { 

HENRY   SOTHEBAN    &   CO., 

BOOKSELLERS    AND    LIBRARY    AGENTS. 

W  BOOKS,   MAGAZINES,  and  NEWSPAPERS,  inclading  FOREIGN  LITERATURE 

supplied  promptly  on  discoant  terms. 

UND  BOOKS.— Their  stock  is  large  and  varied  ;  and  customers  can  rely  on  the  BINDING  OF 
THEIR  OWN  BOOKS  being  executed  with  every  care  for  their  instructions.  STRONG 
CHEAP  BINDING  for  Public  Libraries  and  Book  Societies. 

SOND-HAND  BOOKS.-Their  MONTHLY  CATALOGUE  (known  as  SOTHEBAN'S  PRICK- 
CURRENT  of  LITERATURE),  published  in  the  middle  of  each  month  for  over  afty  years, 
will  be  sent  on  application.  They  guarantee  all  diligence  in  FINDING  BOOKS,  however 
unimporUnt  or  obscure,  and  execute  with  discretion  COMldSSIONS  AT  AUCTION. 

[PORT  DEPARTMENT.— To  this  all  the  above  points  apply  ;  but  they  will  be  glad  to  give  any 
information  as  to  terms  and  details,  or  references,  if  desired,  to  a  clientele  unusually  representative 
throughout  the  world. 

^CRAVINGS  and  AUTOGRAPHS.— a  cousiderable  collection  of  these  will  be  found  at  their  West- 
Bnd  House,  37,  PICCADILLY,  and  special  Catalogues  are  there  issued  occasionally. 

BRARY  ARRANGEMENT.— They  can  give  expert  attention  to  the  complete  FITTING-UP  of 
PUBLIC  or  PRIVATE  LIBRARIES  and  to  the  ARRANGEMENT  and  IMPROVE- 
MENT of  existing  Libraries,  and  the  execution  of  a  LIBRARY  CATALOGUE. 


BOOK-BUYING    DEPARTMENT. 

They  can  always,  at  short  notice,  inspect  and  value  Libraries  or  smaller  Collections 
Books,  Prints,  &c.,  in  Town  or  Country,  and  remove  them  on  purchase  for  cash, 
Uiont  expense  or  trouble  to  the  Seller.  THEY  ALSO  VALUE  FOR  INSURANCE 
:  PROBATE.  

CENTRAL  HOUSE:    140,  STRAND,  W.C,  near  Waterloo  Bridge. 
WEST- END     HOUSE:     37,    PICCADILLY,   W.,    opposite   St.   James's   Church. 


^graphic  Address :  Bookmbn,  London.  Codes :  IInioods  &  A  B  C.  TToundod  'mTo7i«t ^Xx^X^^Vj  A^\^. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    (9*8.vila«ii,i8,hm, 


N 


KWSVKND0H8'   BKNEVOLKNT   and 

■  1  MimnFM  UaU  fiullillbKt,  IS,  Firrlopiilan  «UW«,  LaaiAom,  B.C. 
-Die  Uight  Hob.  tbv  SKKL  o(  ROBKfflEJl¥,  ILB. 


Tbe  mibt  Hon.  tlie  U>1L1>  OLINE^K. 
Sir  W,  J.  RICHMOND  COTfUN,  Jf .  (CbBtnberlElii  t»l  lAiidda^ 
TrBunrir  t 
Tb*  LO»tf>UN  Abct  WKtTKmSTEn  BANK,  LIMITBU. 
3iT,  aiimDd.  W  C 
Tmvteci  {BK-UfflclD  Memb(>r«  of  Q*iiLBal(iec) : 
UR^ttLK^  HE?fJiV    WALTElJL,  Hvq 
HOkALlB  aaUUKH  14Ali.HiHALL,.  Km|.,  H  A.  J.P    It.L. 
ALl'lllSU  HKHKV  HANCE.  E^J   •  t'hftJrmHlol  OoBlliilM**> 
UKAHLli^  AWimV.  iS*4,,  M  A. 
Ul^BCTH  -Thf*  InstUutiuQ  vr^t  eitibllRbdd  la  IKW  In  Ui«  Clt;  «t 
LoildBB,  anilir  Uic  t*r<nJ4l«DCf  «)f   iho   Iftui    A1<]ettQUi    Hnrmvrp    r0i- 
fnutUflr    PvnMiaat    mod    itoiponLrf    Aiatituiee    ui     prLaelpalii    wad 
MHlMaat*  iBmiEwl  M  Yffndon  of  Dt<*ri^p0rfl. 

A  DaaHloa  nf  Ttn  Uulotu  cabiLLiuiB*  a  Vlcv-^mmdent  and  pLfe* 
Ulrae  TotPf  fnr  Ufe  it  ill  i*lec[Joiu.  itmch  ditUBilon  of  Thrtio  Gurnewi 
irlTH  A  vDt»  nt  nil  elAetiaiiH  for  uiq.  Mverj  Aaaiifti  KutMcnber  Ja 
enilUrd  to  odd  tote  »  £ll  filecUoi&i  iti  mtEvct  ul  at^  Five  Hbliilnfli  la 
J»id. 

.ME^ilHBliSHIl'.  -  Hv«r^  tiinu  iitid  fromaii  IhrMiprHoat  the  Unlitad 
Xlniprdora,  wtii'lher  truhlhnhcr,   wbdlfiinlyr,    rfiUikcr,   puiplcVTinr  or   cm- 

T)luTi4l,    lj<  4?t3lnllJMl   [u  iHK-omc  ■<  rii«niiti>f  T  of  IhU  Instil tuLlun,  linil  rfiJCiJI' 

for  Life,  pfoYlddd  LliAl  hf  i>r  flhi!!i  !■  qukk^ckI  In  Lhr  sIUq  fif  □{! w*cAp«m 

TIU!  pnnct^  feiitiLrtii  of  th?  £1  uLei  RTtTcr^lm;  Q|;i^f  uqd  lo  mil  VeoMiaa* 
uv,  tbmL  c*cb  vndldtiK?  ^hbtl  h^vc^  bwo  cl  l>  »  memtpcr  of  th(>  Innltuilon 
tor  nnt,  low  Ehmn  ibd  jmn  prKvdmw  Appilstion,  {^1  dqI  Jqm  ibM 
flilj-nve  ji^n  at  iffc  ,  I  rj  I  fiqimii^d  In  thfi  hJc  of  Bewip»porl  for  ttt  l«Mt 
ten  Ti^n- 

%D  aC^mbreri  ol 

•  ho  11H.7  tH  rreoniinnondr4  for  BMlatuuH  bf  Kambvntif  t)ve  Injtlimion. 
Jnquirr  ip  iq&dn  In  inch  tmmm  hj  VliiUni:  CsommlUDes.  wd  rt<ii^:f  in 
Awarded  ID  »ccufd«an  with  tb*  mfltilB  nod  rwinlrsnvBnti  n(  eftch  c*m 


-Tempnrmrr  rvtlef  L>  |ElTetl  In  oumt  at  dlflHWI,  HOI  oalf 
[  the  I  npiiitutlva.  bnt  Ht  uwmn^dA  t»r  t^tr  Ktmnti 


nmE    AUTHOR'a     hairless     PAFfiR-PAD. 

A     jTh*  LMAllKNKAlX  I'liH^^ft.  Lul  .  fubMih«f«  and  l'rii»i»t« 
H,  IjHJicbhKlJ  AtrveL,  London ,  B.Q.  j 
Contnlni    mirlrfti    paper,    o*ier    wl^icb    ih*-     P^d    illp*    ivltn     ^prf^l 
trMdam     Miiipcnei!  ckch.    fti.  pfli-  dosro.  ralM  «r  pl4in     N*«  E'neket 
Blf«,  it.  pfrddfiib,  rol^  or  plnla, 

AqEiion  ihoai4  npie  that  >i^r  l#MdiDball  Prtw,  Lu-.  cinnQi  14 
rBi]»otinlihl«  io'  thf  I  OH  ui  Mi>itt.  or  ftn  or  ^Monnte.  Uapht^Ki'  copict 
Miovlxi  he  r«lftlsii4 

WM.     &     GEO.     LAW, 

COFPEE— S  UGAK— TE  A 

T04.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.G. 

BihlbLlkUD,  JIlC-Lh,  LUUI 

SCHWEFPIIS  MINEEAL  WATEES  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  oi  GOMFABISON. 

Ochweppes^odav 

THB6K  WATBHb  tSoda,  HclUer,  Fou^,  Litiiia, 
Lemotii&jdG,  Touic-Wat^ri  (i lager  Beer,  Dry  Ging@r 
Alfif  ^c.|^c.jiiuv«  beeDOeiebmied  foTOVfir£kcmitury. 
They  b»ve  always  had  ibe  {jatrouagti  of  Hd>  ally* 

/    ENQLISH  NATURAL  TABLB  WATER  :~ 


^8CHW£PPES  SPAEELING  MALVEBH, 


In  SPLITS,  PIKTSp  and  QUARTS. 


1 

ScHWETFEB,  LT0.,  LOUDON,  MaL7£RN, 

QLASQOW,  UTSfiFOOL,  BRISTOL,  BYDNEY,  ftftl  UMLBOURKB. 


^OTBS  ASD  QUERlKa-The  SUBSCKIPTION 

II  tA  ISOTW  AFD  au  HjllR]4  free  hj  p«ic  li  fO«.  3rf.  lor  ^x  li«niki ; 
«r30i-  Off,  forTwetv^«  Konth*.  tBi!jil4lRf  Uis  Vnlnnw  Indfei.-JlJHJt  C 
FHAJIClt.  ,V*«f<  bM  «i«fM*  Ora»i  J — '         ^ 


LITKHARY  and  TKCHNICAL  TRANSLATION 
rroin  French  or  Oarnaii  undvrt>ltM  hf  FJtBD BRICK  WaAJiT\>K 
KAtiBTOTr.  Evii.titQ  Dl  ^h«  Indln  ticTc&ne  Berrin.  :7,  Lli»i» 
l^ndjB,  Aoa&Qtea.—llernu  on  ftpplLmiLon. 

(lULLBTON'S    HERALDIC    OFFJCI 

^-^  lir  Scmrcbfri  u4  AncbMClc  Inf  ormitlon  i««p«etinf 

AUJiaaiAL    HKAHlKGi^    AM)    FAMILY    I>K£|C£ltn, 

viu  n  flepvite  LNsivrtment  for  tbo  ArtioLie  I'rttdoiiillQft  «| 

KBRALDIC  PAlNttMO  AND  BMOlLAYIMO 

llook-l'lalM,  Bonli,  lfl«,  Mrnet  klof*.  Uverr  noLiM*.  Ghitod  IVHI- 

t^per^  Vliltrlnt  ud  larttaunn  (;»r4«,  *iL 


«.  PICCAUILLV.  tUNDOH  fnpjwflte  thsOnn  PhJk> 

HOOES,  M3H.,  lus.— MDSBra.  H.  H.  HODGfitm  t 
00,.  AMtiftnnn  of  lliMAft  ud  Ubtnrj  l^pcftf  of  ftirr 
dQKripElQD.  Ubnrlei  ud  tnaJtor  OollBdiimi  anlitUr  Ulifi|«i 
4ndi  prompt!;  olfefed  for  tele  I'mekln^  ud  Hcnurnt  mnaa^iA  IH. 
VftlgAU^nB  i&ble  Jar  ProtAln  of  utJiAr  ainfltiht.  AkHw 
tTiaoM  17  LU3  ff  [  tlMt  BLitict  «Dd ).    Btfwt>ft»i  \W». 

HOOKS.— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS  lup- 
ptlD4 ,  no  mftOor  ma  mb$x,  0nbJ«OL.    Ackfttt vl«d icd  ■,««  trorU «iV 
u  Ui^  miiiii  riiirvFt  H  lOkAndftr*  eihnL    I'lteM  A^ta  viuii.— B4U11 


II^IRST  EDITIONS  of  MODERN  AUTHOK, 
lBfilu4LDir  niflien&e  ThKckenr,  Lerer  Mniirftrtb,  HmU  B^ 
tnted  br  ()  tnd  K  Orahkilwnk,  I%|i,  Howl^ndfoo.  Loc^b,  Bf.  m 
1nfi^%«l  mD4  ebo>1iee«t  OoUhUod  offered  tor  H«le  in  ibc  Wnrl^  (»- 
lofttie^  iMoei]  mnd  ical  po«t  fre4  011  »ppU»tlon.  Bofiki  b^fH- 
WAl^TKR  T.  til-KMUfiJH,  ^.  Mfiir  Uiford  Street,  London.  IT  C 


I  CATALOGUE  (No.  6»)  of  CHOICE,   CUftlOUi^ 

KJ    ULIt.   mi    IJLARE    ]KM)IU!,  uuslndlnir  IxnmplM  0I  fUM^ 
C«btur]f  l'r«i*C!R ;  AniitleU^d  MordC(!0  ftfld  Aroiorinl  Hlndinitf  ir-^**^ 
Hldtorj,  TChpof»ph^  Uid  AnUqilUT  ;  F*tnJllr  IfiklorT  U,d  Oh 
KftiiajiiT'iic  uiuh  t'uhJjrALiijni ;  V^ ttcbcfef t  Litcmtur?  ;  abd  im 
f  tent  In  kU  CIm«». 

roit  frve  bfi  ftppUd  lUon  to 


ItUlCM  tILiHIlKJI  MOW  RBADY. 

MORiNQ'S        QUARTERLY. 
Ab  UlnfUmted  Jounul  devofwl  M>  Att,  Amttolnff  u4 
Hoimldrr. 
l*Tlo0  1 4  i  bT  poit,  ]  f .  9d     tf  o,  X  Vll ,  com  in«n«ft  n  Hi*  itflw- 

FiLBNCU  AKrotlb«  PA^T  Kttbfl  PARIB  E^t H IBTTIOIf.    UliiCftfi*^ 

Pbo  ROHTAM  CAMP  Bt  ]l£liiHJ8  WALO     Dlnitinled 

i>LJVWUia.l)  NAMH^I-l^MNiNO. 

NEITB8  on  E\  TRA-^'AHaCULAL  ILBOISTKEUI. 

rhe  'HBW  aENEAtOQW" 

The  OB  LA  HUbB  I'BBBS,  ^,  Kl«ll  Hoi  bom,  LoolM,  W£ 

EXCHANGE   (or  would  SUB>LET)  for  TUHi> 
HOKTtts.  «  H0bB«  la  BaiiUt-Ve«t  init«r«  \9U  wmmPJ 

Retlilenet  In  ihu  UlQWitl7„  W  tMUtdt.  —  A ppl ]r    P.,  AUWWB  fW^ 
Hre^n'A  HULldln^,  8,C, 


THENJSUM      PR  BSE  — JOHN     JCDWAK^ 

PtLAMClB,  Prtmtflr  of  tbe  Aihmtmmm^  Ab|^  «<i4   UnWii,  "^^ 

auuitlt'  fiariMAi^Bii  far  m  kia^a  or  tmO^  HB^ 
*ad    P»lUOiJlCAL    paiKTlKO.-li*  liqAm'i  ~ 

LAn»,  B.0 


ST1CKPHA8T    PAtsTE    \h    HEAPS    better  ^ 

finO'flf,  ttkefml  Unuh  rtiDL  &  I'of  J-  Send  ttrti  ittjapi  lo  0"*<f  pSJT 
for  A  HAaipie  HoiUlA,  lAeJi«dlat  ilniib.  .FMKorT,  Bnnr  Irfit  <?i'<l'^ 
L»4«ftlWll  IKfWt,  ao.    Of  111  tf 


vilapml  13, 1901.1      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


281 


LOUDON^  SATUMDAY,  APMiL  IS,  mi. 


CONTBNTS.-NO,  ITl 

,_*i Verge*'  and  **YArrl,**  »81  —  Bxenitlom  *t 
n  ui<l  Hliwwher*,  mi^Qrvf  Frlam.  Al»cMe«n  — 
cm  r.  BoKW«*n— 3t.  Helerjn  FUyliill  -3**  Oatherhio 
,  28.^— **Wh6m"-=llomfl— Tlio  iliw\  nt  Fontcnoy- 
i^ountrymen'iTan*— InfluefiM— Gftin  of  &  Modem 
ur  Myth— Tithe,  386-Bfltttc(l  Ale.  aSf. 

"  Curtwy-benderw  "— Burn  ham  KAmUy— Tmij^vwtl 
^Oath  of  AllefflMica— WfttoJi  of  Sir  C.  Shnvoll,  '^1 
ufl  KitujTT  —  ^' Y^wkyuKKJilfl  '•  -  (lUmla  Myutury— 
w^e"— G*t«»  nf  Citroliiits  PiiFk»  fidlnlntrgh— Gre«t 
iMori  —  Wi Uinisn?  Dccov*  Llnci^lii,  aJ*a  —  Luttgi  of 
IB— Hev.  R.  Thomeon-SIr  J.  Kyrc-Jevrtili  Asian^ 
a  I4«ta— *'  Shoehortiurl  "—Charter  Condltlomi,  a8S>. 
as -— "  Nol.le  **  —  F*Qti*yc  Fiotioti,  jm^Bi^r^^ 
-41  C«rd»— '"  Nimty/*  U91— Monolith  in  Hyde  I'ftrk  - 
e  ol  Quotation  —  Ifeliiurti  »Jid  FrogH  —  **M^i'rn1iue 
'*— "Carrick"- F*rmt  iti  ^HtullbrM,'  ^rtrj  —  Bjick 
iiumr— An  AmerUaiii  Inviwti^toTi  —  Cunpbellt  of  Ard- 
M»-D»t**  Wfcnted-Dutton  Fftmny^  2ttJ-Bt'll-riDK- 
t  Wakei— 'VAijycrtH' "  :  "  Kveryon** "— R<KJn  FiimUy, 
QoomtiArW  BftlUd  — *' Mmwie*  —  Public  MourHing— 
■b««l  Sbc^t— Dr.  Joha^oit,  LAW^— A  MuMulJUan  Lf^fjcnd 
b^tfklt  ftnd  If  op  Boli«titiJt**»— Morris  nA  a  Mum  *>f 
iflKt— OblM'L  Markii— Vvilihlnit  Lundou  :  ChHit'i 
j:tAl— ShIpN  nf  Wur  im  L*tnl.  2i"i  —  *  Qiiol  IIs^mj^ 
.,  lot  hominw!  valet '*  — lmi[e]Mn,  f!o,  Deioa— *'So 
■•_Oefoc>  Fftintly,  swr— Mri.  Arbiiihuut— BrnBeuaie 
ge»  Oxford—**  9mou»  **— Auth<,»ri  Wftntpcl,  aw*. 
i  ON  BOOKS  I-' A  Ntw  BugJlah  Dictionary  on 
nifial  Fflnclples"  — FitAlner'ii  'Qci««t:h«i  nf  Otlver 
iwelt  ■— ]ijrdBilnwii4  FiUmAuHoe  »'  ChuTlet  Wtltiam 
IniMid,  Duike  vt  Bruuawlok/ 
^rge  Uunmy  Suillii— ]>r.  John  gykei. 
I  to  CorreBpoiiilenU. 


"VERGE"  AND  "YAEO/ 
ME  years  maat  i>a»s  befof^  the  *  H.E*B/ 
be  able  to  give  us  the  history  of  tliejie 
8.      In  the  ineati  while    I  would    dfTiw 
ifcion  (1)  to  the  remarkable  relation  in 

of  their  nieatiiDg^^  between  the^e  words, 
DC  French  or  imported  from  the  French, 
jther  pure  English  j  (£)  to  the  develop- 
t  from  the  first  hgubg  of  both  words,  a 
of  a  uecond  sense  as  a  space  of  ground 

or  enclosed.  During  thts  development 
English  word  remained  tinchangea ;  but 
secondary  sense  cauHed  a  slight  diiferen- 
on — of  the  A*-8.  fTjp^d  or  merd  into  geani 
jnce  also  ^arthX  of  the  French  verj^e  or 
M  into  xmrg^e^  of  the  Latin  virga  into 
lia;  and  yard  remains  exactly  equivalent 
ieh  of  these. 

Ffrr^e^^yard  or  ell.  Vergt  was  long  a 
tnym  for  aWree,  ell ;  and  the  yard  was 
of  the  ella.  Thus  in  GuBrnisey  tner©  were 
eeUs.    The  ij^f/e  a  imltery  tne  linen  ell, 

a  French  aune  reduced  from  44  French 
CM  to  44   English  inches,  ptfftces  de  Toy. 

other?  were  the  tim^jt  a  drnp  of  3  French 


still  in  use :  a  Quemaey  fermer  writes  to  me, 
"  La  perche  est  de  ^ept  verges." 

2,  Fergrc=yard  or  rod*  In  France  the  vetr/e 
was  also  the  rod  or  porch,  BometimeB  the 
square  rod-  Littre  quoteii :  **  a  Ulermont  la 
mine  de  terre  est  de  60  vergues  '* ;  that  is, 
60  French  square  rods,  equal  to  an  English 
acre,  being  sown  with  a  mme  (half  a  lidtier.  or 
two  and  one-?^ixth  bushels)  of  wheat,  that 
extent  is  called  a  Tttiius  in  seed  measure  of 
land*  Sometimes  the  square  i>erfje  h  called 
a  vergee,  but  the  latter  terra  is  genemlly 
reserved  for  the  rood  ;  tm^e  i«  a  rod,  tferfj€e 
a  rood.  In  Cornwall  the  rod,  of  18  feet 
square,  has  the  name  of  a  yard  :  "  Two  goada 
square  is  called  a  yard  of  grtiund  "  (*  H.E*D*'). 
N,B.j  gomd^  fjfiid,  or  ffad  is  only  a  variant  of 
j/ard/  Seefftui/HXD/ 

It  would  seem  that  irn^fje  took  root  in 
England*  This  word  in  *  Eichard  IL,*  I-  L— 
To  the  furl  heat  verge 
That  ever  waa  fiiirveyM  hy  Ettgliah  eye- 
in  probably  the  surveyor's  mnje^  or  rod.  Nor- 
den's  *  Surveior^s  Dialogue  *  was  published  in 
1610,  not  twenty  years  after '  Richard  TT.'  was 
written.  He spealcs of  the  '*  standard  chaino  " 
and  of  the  "  theodelite." 

3,  Vcra^c^y&rd  or  rood.  Just  as  the  rood 
was  a  furrow  long  by  a  rofl  broad,  so  the 
verg^€  was  a  furrow  long  by  a  vtrffe  broad— a 
quarter  of  the  arf^nt  (100  square  perches)  or 
of  theocr^f^  Jioifmmdk  (\i^  square  perches). 
To  this  day  in  Normandy  laud  is  iwikoned 
and  advertised  in  im^gees  : — 

**  A  louor  a|>nest  d^ciNSj  |>our  la  Haint- Michel  pro- 
chaine^  unc  excell&nte  Tcrre  bieii  ulivutee,  con  tenant 
vingt^aept  vergecs,  «ittid«  h  la  Haijee-BAulet,  en 
MATcey.^— Jm*n«o/fi*-^i*at>cAe*,  J 900. 

This  b  also  the  unit  of  land -hold]  ng  in 
Quernsey ;  there  ft  is  the  same  as  the 
Lancashire  and  Irish  rood.  Our  rood  was 
also  called  a  vanMand  :  *'  A  rod  of  land 
which  some  call  a  rix>de,  some  a  yarde  lande, 
and  some  a  farthendele"  (Ilecoroe,  1542,  in 
'H.E.D.^).  In  later  editions  of  Ilecorde  the 
"  yard-Ian  d  "  is  d  ropped ,  Th  is  passage  becomes 
"A  rodd  of  land  which  some  call  a  rood  or 
quarter  of  an  acre," 

4*  FiV^jra^e^'ard  or  quarter- hide.  In  our 
statute  French  ifBrrje.  wblb  also  the  virgate, 
the  fourth  of  a  carucate  or  hide :  "  Quant 
une  horn  me  est  feffe  dune  verge  de  terre 
ii^  dun  autre  de  un  caruo  du  terre  "  (St*itute 
of  Wards,  1300).  Mr.  Maitlaod  (*Domes*lay 
Book  and  Beyond  ^)consider?i  that  the  quarter- 
hide  was  called  a  pmjnie  because  it  was  a 
quarter  (that  i;^,  a  rmrfie)  of  each  acre  in  the 
hide.  That  it  may  sometimes  have  been 
composed  of  a  hundred  or  mot^  tupod-^^Tv^ 


—M\  inches,  and  the  nm*fje  d^Angleterre 
English  feet=36  incbm*    The  term  iflj  is  possibie|bul  lt\%  a^  ^toX^s^^^vX^'^c^^^ 


282 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,    m  s.  vil  apkh-  w,  iwl 


as  a  quarter-acre  having  acquired  the  sense 
of  a  quarter,  this  term  latinized  would  also 
be  applied  to  the  quarter  of  the  hide. 

"In  the  Dutchy  of  Lancaster every  plouph- 

laod  or  carue  is  foure  yard  land,  which  in  latine 

is  called  qucUrona  ierrce^  every  yard  land  thirty 

acres."— Norden,  op.  ciL 

With  quatronoL  terrce  cf.  quarterons  de  terre 

(Littrd). 

I  now  come  to  less  solid  ground  than  when 
treating  of  land  measures,  and  therefore  speak 
with  all  due  reserve. 

5.  rfr.grer=orchard.  Here  yard  as  a  direct 
equivalent  of  ve7ye  disappears,  yet  as  ort- 
yard  it  is  the  equivalent  ot  verger  ;  in  Dutch 
the  equivalent  is  boomgaard  (pronounced 
boniehdrd  with  a  guttural  A),  and  in  Scottish 
the  "yard  "  remains  visible  : — 

"  That  every  Lord  and  Laird  make  Parks,  with 
Deer,  Stanks,  CunninKairs,  Dowcato,  Orchyards. 
and  Hedf^es,  and  plant  at  the  least  an  Aiker  of 
Wood."  —  Stat.  James  IV.  c.  149i,  in  Stewart's 
'Index,' 1707. 

I  will  put  aside^  the  possibility  of  this  word 
verger  oeing  derived  from  verge  as  a  measure, 
ana  accept  provisionally  the  derivation  from 
viridarimn  or  veridarium  (Littr^).  Yet  I 
cannot  forget  the  relationship  of  virga  and 
viridie,  analogous  to  that  of  grow  ana  green. 
Enclosures  were  commonly  made  with  green 
stakes  and  withes,  these  taking  root  and 
forming  a  green  fenced  yard  ;  and  it  is  pos- 
sible that  verge  may  have  become  verger  as 
roche  became  rocher. 

6.  rergrc=yard=court.  Prof.  Skeat  (Supp. 
*Etym.  Diet.*)  considers  that  verge^  in  a 
statute  of  1300.  means  "a  limit.''  The 
statute  is  "De  I'estat  du  seneschals  et  des 
marchals,"  dealing  with  felonies  committed 
within  the  verge. 

"  E  nul  plai  de  trespas  ne  pledront  autre  qe  ne 
soit  attache  par  eus  avant  ceo  qe  le  Roi  isse  hors  de 

la  verge  on  le  trepas  serra  fait hors  des  bundes 

de  cele  verge  ou  le  trepas  fut  fait." 

The  last  part  of  this  sentence  shows  clearly 
that  it  is  bundes  and  not  verge  that  has  the 
sense  of  "  limits."  It  seems  that  verge  from 
yard-land  came  to  mean  a  palace-yard  or  a 
court,  and  became  equivalent  to  the  French 
rottr  and  to  the  Dutch  hof.  The  Binnenhof  and 
Buitenhof  at  The  Hague  are  the  inner  and 
outer  palace-yards  ;  Iiof  also  means  a  garden, 
and  in  the  form  hoef  or  hoeve  a  farm,  possibly 
the  Netherlands  equivalent  of  the  old  English 
boor's  yard-land.  The  word  passed  to  Scot- 
land as  AoMj/f,  and  is  probably  the  root  of 
hope  and  hoppet  in  English.    (See  *  H.E.D.') 

7.  Fer^e=circumference.  Here  the  com- 
pany  of  yard  seems  entirely  lost ;  yet  if  the 
idea  of  circumference  arose  from  the  rmg 


formed  bv  a  flexible  rod,  virga  is  still  directly 
there.  Of.  bague,  ring,  with  baguette^  switch 
rod.    Littre  has  the  following  : — 

"Verge.— 18.  Anneau,  bague  sans  chaton  (ac- 
ception  vieillie).  La  souplesse  de  la  baicuette  on 
verge,  la  facility  de  la  nouer  en  forme  d^neau  a 
d^velopp^  une  autre  acception,  c'est  le  oerde  de  U 
bague  distinct  du  chaton,  c'est  aussi  I'anneaa  qui 
r^unit  les  bagues. 

"  XIV.  C.  Un  annel  oil  il  y  a  un  ruby  it  jour  et  a  eo 
la  verge  un  k  et  un  p  [quoted  from  De  Laborde'i 
^Emaux'l. 

"  XV.  C.  n  m'envoya  une  verse  qu'il  portoit  aa 
doigt  pour  enseigne  (de  Comines).^ 

Thus  verge,  circumference,  edjje,  is  a  rod  bent 

into  a  circle,  a  ring.    The  inaurect  derivation 

from  verge,  a  wand  of  office,  thus  fidls.    In 

the  passaee  from  *  Richard  II.,*  U.  i^  quoted 

by  Prof.  Skeat  as  exemplifjring  this  sense  of 

verge,  the  word  means  the  nng  of  the  crown  : 

A  thousand  flatterers  sit  within  thy  crown. 

Whose  compass  is  no  bigger  than  thy  head ; 

And  yet,  incaged  in  so  small  a  verae. 

The  waste  is  no  whit  lesser  than  thy  land. 

It  is  noteworthy  that  the  space  within  the 
verge  of  the  king's  crown  is  compared  with 
the  space  of  the  kingdom.  Was  the  word 
verge  chosen  because  of  its  other  sense  as  a 
land  measure,  as  in  the  passage  from  the 
first  act  ?  Edward  Nicholson. 

1,  Huskisson  Street,  Liverpool 


EXECUTIONS  AT  TYBURN  AND 

ELSEWHERE. 

{Concluded  from p,  t44,) 

Stow,  as  already  quoted,  gives  us  the  pro- 
bably traditional  description  of  the  Elms  at 
the  west  part  of  Smitnfield,  which,  nearly 
two  hundred  years  before  he  wrote,  had  been 
the  common  place  of  execution.  We  pictore 
to  ourselves  the  melancholy  spot  over- 
shadowed by  the  elms,  betwixt  the  River 
of  tlie  Wells  (or  Fleet)  and  the  large  pool, 
visited  only  by  men  who  came  to  water 
their  horses.  But  we  could  wish  that  he 
had  named  the  place  which  suooeeded  the 
Elms,  Smithfield.  I  think  it  is  the  genenl 
impression  that  St.  Giles's  was  the  place, 
but  for  that  I  have  found  no  evidence.  The 
impression  seems  to  have  been  created  by 
Maitland,  who,  writing  his  ^History  w 
London '  in  1739,  has  (ed.  1756,  ii.  1363)  :- 

**  On  the  removal  of  the  gallows  from  the  Ehw  in 
Smithfield,  about  the  year  1413,  it  was  erected  at 
the  north  end  of  the  garden  wall  belonging  to  th« 
Hospital  opposite  the  Pound,  where  at  preaent  the 
Crown  Tavern  is  situate,  between  the  cndi  w 
8t.  Giles's  High  Street  and  Hog  Lane ;  io  which 

Elace  it  continued  till  removed  to  the  neifhboar- 
ood  of  Tyburn."  ^ 

^Thia  is  closely  followed  by  Plartoii  (im)  to<l 


9»  8.  Vn.  April  13, 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


288 


!)obie  (1829)  in  their  histories  of  St.  Giles's 
Mirish.  Beyond  such  insufficient  authority 
have  found  none  other  showing  tliat 
it.  Giles's  was  ever  established  as  the  general 
»lace  of  executions,  although  twice  chosen 
or  the  special  executions  which  we  will  now 
onsider. 

The  fields  of  St.  Giles's  are  said  to  have  been 
1  1414  the  meeting- place  of  the  Lollards,  who 
ad  Sir  John  Oldcastle  (styled  Lord  Cobham 
i*r»  uxoris)  as  their  chief.  Twenty-five  thou- 
and  of  them  were  to  meet  in  the  fields  on 
he  night  of  14  January,  but  when  the  king 
aUiedont  of  the  City  gates  with  a  strong 
rray  he  found  but  eighty  of  the  so-called 
ebels.  Then  woe  to  the  heretics  !  We  learn 
heir  fate  in  the  chronicle  of  Fabyan,  who 
raa  almost  contemporary  (d.  1511),  thus  :— 

"Sir  Roger  Acton,  knight,  Sir  John  Beverley, 
rieat,  a  squire  called  Sir  John  Browne,  and  thirty- 
ix  more,  after  conviction  uf  heresy  and  treason, 
rere  hanged  and  burned  within  the  field  of 
t.  Giles." 

)ldca8tle  escaped  at  this  time,  but,  captured 
earlv  five  years  afterwards,  was  put  to  death 
rith  barbarous  cruelty.  At  the  end  of  a  long 
eport  of  his  trial  in  '  Rolls  of  Parliament ' 
roL  iv.  p.  108)  is  the  death  sentence  :  — 

"Comme  Traitour  au  Roi  k  k  son  Roialme  soit 
mesn^  k  la  Tour  de  Loundres,  k  d'iUeoques  soit 
■einez  p'my  la  Citee  de  Loundres  tanq.  as  novelles 
irches  en  la  paroche  de  Seynt  Gyles  hors  de  la 
arre  de  Vieille  Temple  de  Loundres,  k  illeoquea 
[>it  pendnz  k  ara  penoant." 

lere  the  indication  of  place  is  **the  new 
lallows  [probably  set  up  for  the  occasion]  in 
he  parish  of  St.  Giles  outside  the  bar  of  the 
>ld  Temple  of  London,"  t.c,  the  old  house  of 
he  Knights  Templars,  which  stood  by  the 
orth  end  of  Chancery  Lane  and  more  than 
alf  a  mile  east  of  St.  Giles's  Hospital, 
tedmayne,  a  contemporary  chronicler,  in 
Memorials  of  Henry  V.'  places  the  execu- 
ion  "in  agrum  Divi  Egidii."  Fabyan  has 
hat "  Lord  Gobham  was  drawn  unto  Seynt 
iyles  felde,  where  he  was  hanged  upon  a  new 
lair  of  gallows  with  chains,  and  after  con- 
amed  with  fire."    John  Bale  (1544)  says  :— 

'  The  Blessed  Martyr  of  Christ,  Syr  John  Oldecastell, 

he  Lorde  Cobham was  drawn  forth  unto  Sa3mct 

iyles  Felde,  where  as  they  had  set  up  a  newe  payre 

>t  gallows then  was  he  haneed  up  there  by  the 

nyddle  in  cheanes  of  yron,  and  so  consumed  aly  ve 
in  the  fyre." 

H&U  and  Holinshed  repeat  Bale,  and  Stow 
does  not  vary.  In  all  these  accounts  we  hear 
only  of  St.  Gliles's  Fields,  which  then  covered 
ft  large  area  quite  outside  London,  and  only 
10  the  words  of  the  Parliament  Rolls  do 
*e  approach  to  any  more  definite  indication 
^  the  gallows  sit^  viz.,  '^outside  the  bar  of 


the  Gld  Temple,"  which  in  the  fields  was  aa 
far  away  as  it  could  be  from  the  hospital — in 
fact,  at  the  opposite  extremity  of  the  area. 
The  next  execution  we  have  to  notice  at 
St.  Giles's  helps  our  conclusion. 

The  long  period  of  168  years— 1418  to  1586 
—passed  without  any  execution  at  St.  Giles's 
of  which  we  have  knowledge.  That  of  1586 
had  a  cause  of  very  difierent  complexion  from 
that  of  1418,  but  they  are  alike  in  having  the 
same  motive  for  the  selection  of  the  place  of 
death.  The  alleged  conspiracy  in  both  cases 
had  been  concocted  in  tne  same  out-of-the- 
wav  fields  of  St.  Giles's ;  therefore  it  waa 
ordered  that  in  those  fields  should  retribu> 
tion  be  exacted.  The  name  of  Babington 
distinguishes  the  plot  to  bring  Mary,  Queen 
of  Scots,  to  the  English  throne  by  the  assassi- 
nation of  Elizabeth  ;  but  in  the  English 
seminary  at  Rheims  lay  the  inception  of  the 
plot,  and  John  Ballard  and  John  Savage 
were  the  emissaries  who  gained  the  co-opera- 
tion of  Anthony  Babington.  a  man  of  good 
position.  Holinshed,  or  rather  his  continu- 
ator,  now  writes  the  contemporary  record, 
and  with  painful  minuteness,  extending  over 
four  full  pages,  he  relates  the  fearful  penal- 
ties metea  out  to  fourteen  of  the  discovered 
miscreants.    The  place  is  thus  indicated  :— 

"A  field  at  the  upper  end  of  Holborn,  hard  by  the 
highway  side  to  Saint  Giles  in  the  field,  where  was 
erected  a  pair  of  gallows  of  extraordinary  height, 
as  was  that  whereupon  haughty  Haman  was 
hanged  for  his  ambition." 

Camden,  also  contemporary,  writes  : — 

"On  20»>»  same  month  [September,  1586]  (a  gallows 
and  a  scaffold  being  set  up  for  that  purpose  in 
S.  Giles  Fields,  where  they  were  wont  to  meet)  the 

first  seven  were  hanged The  next  day  the  other 

seven  were  drawn  to  the  same  place,"  kc, 

John  Stow  and  John  Speed,  both  of  the 
time,  throw  further  light  on  this  execution 
of  1586,  by  locating  it  in  Lincoln's  Inn 
Fields.    Thus  relates  Stow  :— 

"  These  traitors,  fourteen  in  number,  were  exe- 
cuted in  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields,  on  a  stage  or  scaffold 
of  timber  strongly  made  for  that  purpose ;  even  in 
the  place  where  they  were  used  to  meet  and  to 
confer  on  their  traitorous  practices,  there  were  they 
hanged,  bowelled,  and  quartered." 

Then  follow  the  names :  J.  Ballard,  priest ; 
Anthony  Babington,  Esq. ;  J.  Savage,  gentle- 
man ;  and  the  others  To  us  of  the  present 
day  St.  Giles's-in-the-Fields  and  Lincoln's 
Inn  Fields  seem  far  apart ;  the  distance 
between  them  is  quite  naif  a  mile.  But 
if  we  put  out  of  mind  the  now  crowded 
district  and  modern  parochial  divisions,  and 
turn  to  Aggas's  map  of  c.  1560,  the  apparent 
variance  diHapjjeata.  ^ViVjefeiv  ^^,  ^^^% 
Hospital  and  LmcoVtv'a  Iwtv  ^\«i  ^^^^  ^xA 


284 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [»-» s.  vn.  April  w.  iwa. 


although  there  is  certainly  a  dividing  wall 
along  the  eastern  ed^e  of  Drury  Lane,  the 
parish  of  St.  Giles  m  1586  stretched  over 
the  whole  area  then  apparently  known  as 
St.  Giles's  Field  or  Fields  ;  while  the  eastern 
part,  "outside  the  bar  of  the  Old  Temple  of 
London/'  was  evidently  sometimes  called,  as 
by  Stow,  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields.  But  these 
names  do  not  appear  on  the  map  of  Ralph 
Aggas. 

Thus  it  appears  to  me  that  the  open 
fields  of  St.  Giles's  witnessed  the  executions 
of  1414-18  and  1586,  and.  correcting  my 
admission  (ante^  p.  121)  of  tne  general  oelief 
that  "the  new  gallows"  for  Sir  John  Old- 
castle  were  erected  near  the  Hospital  of 
St.  Giles,  I  think,  after  closer  examination, 
that  it  is  more  probable  the  place  (in  con- 
formity with  the  sentence  oi  death)  was 
nearer  to  the  old  house  of  the  Templars  by 
the  north  end  of  Chancery  Lane.  Nor  do 
I  find  that  any  executions  took  place  in 
St.  Giles's  Fields  except  on  the  two  occasions 
when  the  spot  was  specially  selected  for  the 
punishment  of  conspiracies  alleged  to  have 
been  there  devised. 

I  think  that  Tyburn  succeeded  Smithfield, 
because  prior  to  the  transposal,  which  Stow 
assigns  to  1418,  we  have  the  case  in  1388  of 
the  execution  of  Tresilian  and  others  at 
Tyburn.  English  history,  however,  affords 
very  little  evidence  on  the  point,  as  in 
general  it  notices  only  the  execution  of 
nobles  or  notable  people ;  that  of  common 
felons  is  disregarded.  Stow  tells  us  — of 
course  omitting  his  source  of  information — 
that  in  the  cruel  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  72,000 
criminals  were  executed  throughout  Eng- 
land ;  we  wish  that  he  had  named  the 
general  place  of  the  London  gallows.  At 
Tyburn  tne  following  hangings  are  recorded 
by  Hall  and  Holinshed  :— 

In  1534  Elizabeth  Barton,  the  deluded  and 
perhaps  deluding  "Holy  Maid  of  Kent," 
together  with  Kichard  Master,  parson  of 
Aldington,  and  Edward  Barking,  a  monk, 
her  chief  instructors,  and  five  others.  In 
1535  three  Carthusian  priors  refusing  to 
accept  the  king's  supremacy.  In  1536  Lord 
Thomas  FitzGerald  and  his  five  uncles,  Irish 
rebels.  In  1537  those  implicated  in  the 
insurrection,  called  "The  Pilgrimage  of 
Grace,"  against  the  suppression  of  the  reli- 

fious  houses,  among  whom  are  named  Sir 
ohn  Bulmer,  Sir  Thomas  Percy,  Sir  Francis 
Bigod,  and  eight  others.     In  1538  Edmund 
Coningsby  and  Edward  Clifford,  for  counter- 
feiting   tne    king's    signet.      In    1539    two 
serving-men  of  Sir  Adrian   Fortescue,  who  I  - 
the  same  day  was  beheaded  at  the  Tower. \ 


In   1540  the    Prior   of   Doncaster  and   six 
others,  not  accepting  the  king's  supremacy. 
In  1541  Lord  Dacres,  for  killing  a  forester 
when  unlawfully  hunting  deer.    Also  in  1541 
Culpepper  and  Derham,  involved  in  the  sad 
affair  of   Queen    Katharine    Howard.     All 
these  were  hung  at  Tyburn,  and  of  coune 
a  host  of  common  criminals.    Of  the  latter 
we   have  but   one   source   of   informatioo, 
at  least  onlv  one  known  to  me,  viz.,  the  diary 
of  Henrv  Machyn,  citizen  and    merchan^ 
taylor  of  London.    As  a  funeral  furnisher, 
he  is  chiefly  observant  of  such  pageantry, 
but  also  he  seems  diligently  to  have  recorded 
the  executions  of   the  thirteen  years  over 
which  his  diarv  extends— 1550-63.    We  wish 
it  were  not  thus  limited,  for  its  value  is 
considerable.    The  period  does  not  touch  the 
reign  of  Henry  VIIL,  or  probably  the  number 
would  have  been  greater ;  and  as  it  is  we  can 
hardly  think  the  record  complete,  for  141,  the 
number  of  Tyburn  executions  I  have  picked 
out,  is  not  great  for  thirteen  years.     The 
crime  is  not  always  stated,  and  only  two 
of   the   executed   are   distinctly    noted  m 
murderers;    seven    are   coiners,    one    had 
counterfeited  the  Queen's  signet,  three  were 
conspirators,    four    robbers    on     Hounslow 
Heath,  and  the  remainder  generally  thieves 
and    cutpurses.     There    are    executions  of 
felons  also  at  St.  Thomas  k  Watering,  * 
recognized  place  for  the  gallows  on  the  Old 
Kent  Road,  a  mile  and  a  half  from  London 
Bridge  ;  of  robbers  at  sea  by  low- water  mark 
at  Wapping ;  and  special  executions  at  Hjrde 
Park  (Jorner  and  Charing  Cross.    And  during 
Mary's  reign  there  is  the  burning  of  heretics 
at  Smithfield  and  Stratford-at-Bow. 

We  have  now  arrived  at  a  time  when  it  is 
quite  clear  that  the  common  place  of  execa* 
tion  was  Tyburn,  where  we  nave  seen  that 
even  as  earlv  as  1196  the  gallows  had  been 
raised,  and  where,  indeed,  in  1330  thegibbeton 
which  Mortimer  was  hung  was  terooed  b^ 
the  chroniclers  **  communis  furca  latronaoi. 
But  again — we  cannot  escape  the  question- 
what  or  where  was  Tyburn  f  Was  it  originaliy 
by  the  burn,  or  always  at  the  old  cross-rows 
now  markecf  by  the  Marble  Arch  ?— a  lonely, 
desolate  place  even  when  mapped  by  Rocqo0 
in  1746,  nothing  seen  but  the  gallows  at  toe 
cross,  **Tiburn  House  "(the  grand  stand  fof 
viewing  the  death  scene),  a  lesser  construc- 
tion for  the  same  purpose,  tour  trees  (probably 
the  associated  elms),  and  within  the  p^ 
wall  the  place  "  where  soldiers  are  shot" 

It  is  my  hope  that  what  I  have  written  (*^ 
too  great  length,  I  fear)  may  elicit  soije 
facts,  or  at  least  conjectures,  tending  towfti^ 
\>Vve  ^\3A>\oTv  oi  the  question.     The  fiocl  ^ 


Lvn.  APRIL  13, 190L]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


285 


.n  hones  at  Marylebone  Court-Jioase  in 
mentioned  by  Maitland  {ii.  1372)  ten 
afterwardsi  and  noticed  by  Lyaons,  i^f 
negligible  circum.stance^  a^  possibly  it 
point  to  the  graveyard  of  the  littltj 
hj  or  poaaibly  even  to  the  remaini^  of 
cecutea.  But  a  better  clue  aeeiDN  to  He 
J  field -names  **  Great  and  Little  Gibliet 
(^"  which  ffccur  in  the  (?rant  of  Prior 
ra,  4  Henry  VI TL,  to  Blennerha,sset, 
kind^  whic^fi  was  part  of  the  manor 
iieaUine,  belonging  to  the  Knightn 
itallers,  is  now  .  the  Port  man  estate. 
;^rant  ia  quoted  in  Smith's  'Account  of 
lebono'  0S-"^3)»  P-  38,  but  reference  i« 
ed,  Mr.  Loftie^  referring  to  it  in 
ion*{1883X  ii.  226,  !*eems  to  locate  the 
3t  Fields  at  the  south -western  angle 
a  estate,  opposite  to  the  site  of  the 
le  Arch,  whither  at  the  date  of  the 
,  1512,  the  gaJiovfs  had  "travelled  out 
Tyburn,"  One  cannot  but  desire  the 
ttion  ot  the^ae  fields— perhaps  oven  a 
of  them— which  tJie  ancient  palmers  of 
ortman  estate  may  contain, 

W.  L-  RUTTON. 


EY  Friajrs  Church,  Aberdeen  :  its 
wiNQ  Destruction,— Allow  me  to  draw 
fcion  to  the  wanton  destruction  of  this, 
mly  pre- Reformation  church  left  in 
leen,  the  transept  of  the  once  grand 
h  of  Bt.  Nicholas  excepted*  Excellent 
were  drawn,  showing  its  ineorpora- 
(and  perfect  restoration)  as  part  of 
lew  MaHsSchal  College  buildings  ;  but 

J'ean?  of  discussion  tlie  violent,  and  I 
d  ignorant,  party  have  got  their  way, 
he  venerable  ouilaing,  cafletl  by  them  a 
ua  old  thing,  is  to  come  down,  and  a 
hurcb  to  be  erected  close  by.  All  right - 
3d  persons  are  indignant,  but  utterly 
pent  by  the  ruling  iconoclasts,  I  hope  all 
lave  any  reverence  for  the  past  will  at 
let  the  authorities  know  how  indignant 
Feel  at  this  utterlv  wanton  vandal  ism. 
[  trust  other  rea<lers  of  *  N,  *&  Q.*  will 
further  information.  Many  curious 
of  the  past  will  prolmbly  turn  up  when 
ile  work  bet?  in  SI,  and  1  only  liope  the 
leen  Ecclesiological  Society  will  be  on  the 
1  could  say  mom,  but  feel  boo  keenly 
ite  calmly,  F.S.A^ScoT. 

SsoN  ti.  Bos  WELL.— It  may  be  worth 
ling  that  at  the  Whitechapel  County 
I  on  25  January,  among  the  eases  called 
hat  of  Johnson  vei^^un  Bow  well  Neither 
amesake  of  the  lexicogi-ajiher  nor  tlmt  of 
iographer  appeared.    Vharles  Hiatt, 


St.     Helena    Playbill,— The    following 

trauHcHpt  of  a  playbilJ^  printed  on  satin,  of 
performances  at  St.  Helena  may  have  some 
interest,  genealogical  or  other  :— 

8t,  HelGua  Amateur  Theutrf  [sic]. 
Under  the  imLronage  of  Brtgadier  fFeueral  Alex*' 

Walker,  ftovenior»  &e,  Ac.  &€, 

For  the  Benefit  of  Messra.  Charlett  k  C,  Tracy 

On  Monday  Evening  the  15^'*  Heiiteniber,  1823^  will 

be  jierfontjetlp  tn© 

Comeiiy  (in  two  Acts)  called 

Three   Weeka  after  Marriage, 

Si  r  Charlea  Racket ...    . , .    by  M  r.  fJJoU  yer. 

Druraet  ...    ...    .„         Mr.  Driiiu. 

Lovelafse     ...    .„     .„    .,.  Mr.  J.  Doveton, 

Woodley „    ,.,  Mr.  P.  Kay, 

Lady  Racket     .., Mr,  Charlett. 

Mrs.  Drugget    ...     ...     ...  Mr.  Voun^. 

Nancy ,..     ...     ...     ...      ..  Maat^jr  Dnng, 

l)i mi tx  [ffif] ...         M r.  U,  T racy. 

After  the  Cofiiody  (by  moat  particular  deaire») 

C.  Udale  will  give  hia  Imitation  of  Mr.  Kean, 

aa  Duke  of  Gkreter  in  Richard  Ihu  Third. 

After  which,  the  much  aclmiretl  Fartje  of 

Fortune  8  Frolic. 

RoHn  Hough  Head      ...    ,..    Mr,  J-  Dovotou. 

Rattk        ,,.     .,.    ..,    ...     .,,    Mr.  Young. 

Hna^ka       ...    ...     ...    ..,    ...    Mr*  Dring, 

Mn  Frank       ..,      ..    ...    .,,    Mr,  P,  Kay. 

Oown a.  Bag^haw, 

Villagers,  &o» 

Mis»  Nancy ...    Mr,  C.  Tracy, 

IJolly  ...    ...    ,..    ...    ...    ..,    Mr.  R,  BrwJke. 

Margery    ...    ..,    ,.,    ,,.    ...    Mr  Charlett. 

To  be  Aueeeeded  by  the  8ong  of  "  Typpo* 

Ty  Witehettj"  by  Nlr,  Colly er,  in  character. 

To  conclude  with  the  Musical  Entertainment, 

called 

The  Padlock. 

I>on  Diego       -,,    ...    .►.    ...    Mr.  Julio* 

I^eander    ..,    ...    ...    ,,.    ...    Mr,  Kay, 

Mungo       ...    ...    „,    ...    ,*.    Mr,  Stewart, 

Leonora    ...     ,.,    ...    ...    ...    Mr,  C.  Tracy, 

Ursula      ...    ...    .,.    ...    ,-,    Mr,  Dring. 

iJooni  to  be  oi>ened  at  6,  and  tho  Performance  to 

begin    at   7   o'clotk .Lower  and   Upper   Boxea, 

1m.   6fi.     Pit,  4^.     Cialory   [xiV],    1^.   &/ No   half 

price...... Ticltetft  aud  Placea   for  the  Bo:Kea  to  be 

taken  of 
Mr,  Wm.  Tracy »  Box  Book  Keeper,  at  his  House 
every  Day  from  II  till  2, 

W,  E*  Wilson. 

LomxJif  To  POOR  A  PHY :  No.  22,  Catherine 
iSTRKET.— The  house  No.  22,  Catherine  Street, 
Strand,  at  the  corner  of  Little  Catherine 
Court,  ha.**  been  required  in  connexion 
with  the  new  .'jtreet  from  Hoi  born  to  the 
Strand,  and  w  in  courae  of  being  demolished. 
The  hou.*ie,  which  wan  formerly  the  office  of 
the  Ec/to  newspa|>er,  and  haiJ  a  modern  cement 
front,  was  much  older  than  it  appeared  from 
the  H tree t, and  is  atated  to  be  the  .same  wherein 
John  WaMv  an  eminent  mUMieal  infitrutnent 
maker  and  rauH\c  \mVA'iaWt.j  ti^.irin»i^  ftw  \i^wl- 
nesa  in  the  rel^^u  ot  (4^^^  ktvc^^  mtiArx  >^^ 


286 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [«*  s.  vn.  afml  13,  iiwi. 


aign  of  the  "Gold on  Harp  and  Hautboy/' and 
whore  Handel's  i^nneipal  vs^orks  wuro  pub- 
Hshecl  The  premises  were  used  as  a  thenti-e 
about  1842;  and  I  am  inclinecJ  to  think  that 
the  front  was  cemented  at  that  time,  and  the 
decoration  in  the  tympanum  of  the  second - 
floor  windows,  embleraatic  of  the  drama, 
introduced,  which  haa  been  mistaken  for 
Walsh 'j5  sign  the  **  Golden  Harp,"  which  haa 
long  since  diRappoared,  JofiK  Hebb, 

"WHdM'*= Home.— The  change  of  h  into 
wh  m  several  of  our  EngHi*li  dialecta  has 
often  been  noted  in  these  columns.  An 
amuaing  instance  comes  to  rae  from  Moira^ 
near  Ashby-de-la-Zouch,  Moira  is  the  centre 
of  a  colliery  district,  and  is  familiarly  known 
by  the  pitmen  and  their  families  as  '*Wh5m." 
The  story  goe«  that  a  young  woman  found 
crying  on  the  platform  of  Ash  by  station 
explained  that  nhe  had  missed  her  train 
because  the  ticket- clerk,  who  was  fresh  to 
tlie  place,  did  not  know  where  *'  WhiSm  "  waa^ 

a  a  B. 

The  43?fi>  AT  FoNTEXOY,— When  the  42nd 
wore  retiring  before  the  assault  of  the  Irisli 
Brigade  at  rontenoy,  a  sergeant,  seeing  how 
necessary  it  was  tnat  it  should  keep  iU 
ranks  if  it  was  not  to  be  annihilated,  is 
reported  to  have  said,  "  Front  and  rear,  keep 
thegither."  Geofvsey  Hill, 

West -Countrymen's  Tails*— The  blue- 
jackefea  of  H.M,  ships  commissioned  on  the 
east  coast  affect  to  consider  the  West-Country 
men  inferior  to  theniselveJi,  and  say  they 
have  tails.  In  March  the  sliip's  company 
of  ILM.S.  Rodney  turned  over  Ijodily,  when 
that  ship  paid  oft,  to  H.M.S.  Anson,  then  at 
Plymouth,  The  train  from  Chatham  dock- 
yard was  run  west  "in  commission '* — the 
carriages  ne^irest  the  engine  answering  to 
fo*c's'le,  others  nearer  the  centre  to  bertha  for 
men  of  higher  rank»  oflicerH  {in  uniform)  in 
middle  saloon,  and  marines  behind.  The 
engine  ilew  the  "  jack";  the  captain's  pennant 
was  'mid^ihips,  and  the  white  ensign  astern. 
When  the  train  got  into  Devonshire  the 
bluejackets  had  their  heads  out  at  once, 
chafhng  the  people  at  the  stations  and  asking 
abou  t  til  ei  r  tail  s.  Ib  A  a  tr  ^, 

[The  charg*  that  Enghghmen^  and  eapecially  men 
df  Ketit^  have  im\n  bau  Iwt^n  broni^lit  in  Franca  and 
BcotlaacL     Kee  W^  S*  JC*  14S,  '  Cauaatna  AngUcua,'! 

iNFLtTiNZA,— ^It  is  very  well   known  that 

th6  influenza  is  not  an  exclusively  modern 

complaint^   but  I  am    not   sure  whether  a 

cunoas  reference  to  it  by  I3ower,  the  con- 

twuAt4>r  of  FonJun's    chronicle,  Kns   Vieei\ 

DotefL      WriUng  of  the  year  1420,  he  a&^^ 


that  among  those  who  died  in  Scotland  that 
yL^ar  were  i^ir  Heniy  8t.  Clair,  Earl  of  Ork- 
ney ;  Sir  James  Douglas,  of  Dalkeith  ;  Sir 
William  de  Abemethy,  Sir  William  do  St 
Clair,  Sir  William  Cock  burn,  and  many 
others,  all  by  '*that  infirmity  whereby  not 
only  great  men,  but  innumerable  quantity  of 
the  commonalty  perished,  which  was  vulgarly 
termetl  k  Qit/iev}  [le  Quhew  a  vnlgaribus 
dicobatur]"  (Bower,  xv.  32),  Now  qvA  in 
Scottish  texts  usually  represents  the  sound 
of  wh  (properly  aspirated) ;  therefore  it  sf^ms 
that  in  the  fifteenth  century  the  infiuona 
was  known  as  "the  Whew,**  just  as  it  is 
known  in  the  twentieth  century  as  "the 
Flue."  I  have  refrained  from  quoting  at 
length  Bower's  explanation  of  the  cause  of 
the  epidemic,  but  there  seems  little  doubt 
that  tlie  disease  was  identical  with  that  with 
which  we  are  so  grievously  familiar, 

Herbert  Maxwell. 
[For  other  reforencea  to  iufluetiza  a©e  6**^  H.  \iii. 
407. 478 ;  ix.  55 ;  7»^  H.  ix.  68,  Itn,  IM,  207  ;  3c.  332, 378: 
si  446  ;  xii.  51 ;  8«'  H.  i.  126, 194,  356;  ii.  44  ;  vii.  4&) 

Qerm  of  a   Modern  Centaur-Myth-— I 

do  not  know  if  many  readers  of  *  N.  &  O,'  are 
interested  in  such  "old  wives' fables,'' but  1 
cut  the  following  from  the  Piterouriiikii 
LkUfk  {Peftnburg  Zmfi€t)oi  11  (24)  FebrmwT, 
which  borrows  it  from  the  Youg  (S^mth) 
newspaper  :-- 

"  At  Lysaya  Gor^  village,  Eiiaavetgrad  difUict 
(KhcrBou  government),  &  peaiant  woman^  A^- 
fen  A  K— ,  has  heao  brought  t4D  bed  of  a  stf«nf(e 
mam^t^r :  it  m  of  the  female  acic,  and  its  cy^iod 
on  a  of  itK  €!ura  ar^  hutaan,  but  the  fm^  ^mi  the 
other  ear  are  those  of  a  haree.  The  amiB  uri?  behiiKl 
instead  oi  before,  aad  lees,  face,  aud  eara  &re  hftinr. 
Thia  obortion  ia  reported  to  have  lived  set^en  rlayi 
Of  course,  no  importance  is  to  be  attributed 
to  thtH  fantastical  description  of  a  miscarriage 
such  as  can  be  seen  in  any  anatomiou 
museum,  but  the  imaginatise  mragrapliist 
seems  almost  to  hint  at  some  such  unnaturw 
combination  as  is  described  in  the  tenth  book 
of  Appuleius^s  *  Golden  Ass,' although  one  is 
much  less  tempted  to  believe  in  his  suggestion 
of  a  horse  father  than  in  hi.s  dinooverjvof  • 
mare's  nest.  H,  K  M- 

Si.  Fetersborg. 

TiTHB.— 

**  Tithe  waa  originallv  a  rent  charge  pii^  V* 
Tnonaaierien  or  churtrlioa  by  thor^  who  faniidd  y^^ 
laridB.''—' Alfred ^  the  WcBt  Sa^ton  King  «t  ^ 
ErwUflh,'  by  Dugald  MAofadyen,  M.A.,  Boin^-tiiw 
Exnihitiouer  in  Moderp  HiaUiry  on  the  foundation 
of  Morton  College,  Oxford,  1901,  p.  5  {footnote)- 
Mr.  Macfadyen  doc5  not  cite  any  autbointy 
for  his  statement  Surely,  when  tithe  ^'J* 
;ja,\t\  to  «w  d^\ircl^  this  did  not  mean  th*t  tw 
i«k,Tid  \^oT\^^\  \a  >^i&  \i\v^t^l\;   or,   wn^ 


w 


9«*8.vilapril13.i9oi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


287 


land    bclougacl  to  a  luonastory*  surely  tlie 
rent  was  not  limited  to  a  tentfi  of  the  pro- 
duce* William  GEaKGK  Blmk, 
E&moyJe,  Dow&nhiU,  Glasgow. 

BoTTi^KD  AxB :  ITS  Invektiok*— Aloxautlor 
No  well.  Dean  of  8t,  Paul's  in  the  six  toon  th 
oentury,  i^  credited  by  Fuller  with  the  in 
Teoiion  of  the  above.  The  *  Dictionary  of 
National  Biography '  (xli*  245)  alalos  that 
No  well 

"  GshcHi  mueb  itt  the  Asb,  ttad  u  aaid  to  have  ttcoi^ 
dflQtally  invented  bottled  ale,  for  he  uti wittingly 
left  A  bottle  of  ale  in  the  gmsLH  by  thes  nveralde,  fttid 
was  surprtsed  to  find,  a  few  days  later,  its  con  touts 
dforveaoent,*' 

R.   B. 


Wk  ttinflt  rocmost  GorreapondeDl^  desiring  infor- 
mation on  fftmuy^  mattera  of  only  private  interest 
Ui  affix  their  nameg  and  addraeaeB  to  tboir  quorieg, 
in  order  that  the  niiHwen  maybe  addresaed to  th^m 
liiroct. 

"  Sfeeasza  "  AND  SwEDENBOKG.  —  There 
was  published  in  1888  a  one- volume  edition 
if  *  Ancient  Ijegends,  Mystic  Charms,  and 
Superstitions  of  Ireland/  by  Lady  Wilde 
'"Speranza").  Facing  the  title-page  of  tlu« 
irolutne  appear?^  a  list  of  eight  other  works  by 
ibe  »ame  author.  The  last  but  one  of  those 
titles  reads  thus;  "The  Future  Life. 
Sweden borg."  Can  any  of  your  readers 
Biplain  thia  luyaterious  piece  of  information  1 
in  the  year  1853  Mr.  John  Simms^  of  Belfa^t^ 
wued  &  translation  of  Swedeuborg's  *De 
uo^o  ©t  de  Inferno/  renaming  it '  The  Future 
Ufo.'  Had  Lady  Wilde  any  hand  in  this  pubii- 
»tion  1  I  know  of  no  other  work  by  Swetlen- 
borg  published  in  Ireland^  save  the  very 
EU?ely  found  edition  of  *The  New  Jerusalem 
md  ita  Heavenly  Doctrine/  printed  at  Cork 
b  1813,  and  "publishe^l  by  a  Society  of 
piristian  Friends,  for  the  Benefit  of  the 
Institutions  of  Sunday  Schools  and  the 
Sibemian  Bible  Society." 

ClIA^LKS  HXGQAM. 
IfiO,  Grove  Lane,  Loodoa,  S.E. 

Perelle's  Etchings.— I  recently  bought  a 
umber  of  Perelle^s  etchings  of  landscape 
i^nery.  In  some  of  the  plates  a  portion  of 
be  foreground  appears  to  have  been  scraped 
way  and  figures  introrlttced  ;  these  for  the 
lOfit  part  eonni^t  of  an  amorous  couple  in 
ostumet^  of  the  first  half  of  the  eighteenth 
entury.  They  are  grac^ofully  drawn,  much 
fterWatteaas  style,  and  delicately  executed* 
n  tncmt  c&sm  the  background  to  thciie  figures 
dGs&m  to  have  been  re-etched  and  pioc^  to 


the  original  work,  although  the  junction  is 
almost  always  noticeable ;  out  in  one  case  the 
pnncipal  lines  only  of  the  background  are 
titchecf  in  behind  the,  figures,  while  a  horse 
tethered  to  a  tree  close  by  is  left  simply  in 
outline  against  the  white  surface  where  the 
pi  a  to  ba**  never  been  retouched.  When  were 
thcKc  platen  altered  1,  and  of  what  dat«  are  these 
imprea.Hioua  t  I  may  add  that  one  or  two 
have  French  verses  l)elow  in  allusion  to  the 
love  8c«nes.  Chables  L.  Bell. 

73,  Cbesterton  Road,  Cambridge. 

**  CuKTSEY-BENiiEiiS."— An  aged  aunt  of 
mine,  in  speaking  *if  her  having  been  bed- 
ridden for  many  ye^rs,  said  one  day,  **  Oh  ! 
dear,  no  !  I  haven't  used  ray  curtsey-benders 
in  so  long,  I  don*t  believe  I  would  know  how 
to  bo  polite  if  1  should  be  able  to  walk 
again  "—meaning  that  she  had  not  bent  her 
JImees  in  so  many  years.  Has  the  term 
**  curtsey  -  benders  "  any  English,  Saxon,  or 
continental  origin  1 

Wm.  Gushing  Bambuboh. 

EliEabetb,  N.J.,  U.S. 

BuHKHAM  Family.— I  should  be  glad  to 
obtain  information  as  to  the  ancestry  or 
parentage  of  Jonathan  Burnham,  of  Blooms- 
bury  and  Ely  Place,  Hoi  bom,  who  died  in 
ITB?  at  Shirland,  co.  Derby,  and  is  described 
in  the  Genf.  Mag.  as  ^'  an  eminent  distiller  in 
London."  He  Monged  probably  to  the  firm 
of  Burnham,  Lush  t^  Simpson,  of  155,  High 
Holboru,  a^  ho  umde  a  bequest  to  a  Mrs. 
Sarah  Lush.  G.  W.  Wbioley. 

t^outb  Hacknoy,  N.E. 

Transvaal  Dutch,— A  list  of  words  used 
by  the  Boers  with  their  English  meanings 
appeared  in  some  of  the  London  daily  news- 
papers during  1899-1900.  Can  any  reader  of 
'^N.  k  Q.*  furnish  me  with  the  names  and 
datea  of  the  papers  which  contained  such 
lists?  A.  Thomas. 

4,  Manus  Mansion s^  Balham,  8.W. 

OATHOFALLKfiiANcR. — The  oath  book  of  the 
Corporation  of  Wigan,  which  covers  the  period 
from  Queen  Anno  to  Queen  Victoria,  contains 
between  the  years  1799  and  1802  memoranda 
of  the  making  of  the  following  declaration  : 
"I  do  declare  that  I  profess  the  Roman 
Catholic  religion."  Why  was  it  necessary 
to  make  the  above  clnclaration  separate  from, 
but  in  addition  to,  taking  the  oath  of  alle- 
giance? M.  N. 

Watch  belokoinu  to  Sir  C.  Shovell.— 
Can  any  of  the  rea^lers  of  *  N.  &  Q:'  inform 
me  bow  the  watch  belonging  to  Sir  Cloudesley 
Shovell  cam©  into  U\e  W\iA>4  qH  wl^  ^\  'Owi 


288 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [««» s.  vii.  aprh.  13,  iwi. 


Lutti^ls  of  Dunster  (an  old  friend  of  Sir 
Cloudesley'«X  and  ono  who  was  a  descendant 
of  the  8aundersons  ?  The  story,  so  far  as  I 
can  raake  out,  is  tliat  a  man  was  convicted 
for  stealing  the  watch^  tho  loud  ticking  of 
which  betrayed  him,  and  I  believe  he  waa 
hangod.    From  whom  did  he  steal  itt 

The    UlflMISTAKABLE. 

Lusua  N  ATDK^— Representationaof  human 
faces  and  other  objects  sometimes  occisr  in 
the  polished  «ectiong  of  agates  and  other 
minerals.  1  shall  be  greatly  indebted  to  any 
of  your  readers  who  may  have  knowledge  of 
any  specimens  of  these  curious  and  rare 
productions  in  this  country  or  abroad,  or  of 
any  allusions  to  them  in  old  books,  and 
who  will  kindiv  inform  mo  of  such.  I  am 
acquainted  with  the  remarks  on  this  sub- 
ject of  the  late  Mr.  (J.  B.  King,  with  the 
catalogue  of  the  Hertz  collection,  with  the 
single  specimens  in  the  British  Museum  and 
Natural  History  Museum,  and  with  those  of 
Kircher  in  his  'Mundus  Subterraneus '  and 
of  Happel  in  his  *  Relationas  CuriosiEj*  but 
there  must  be  much  more  information  to  be 
gained  if  one  knew  where  to  look  for  it. 

"  YocKTTNGG  ALE."— Stephen  Py  ne,  of  Mares- 
field,  in  the  county  of  Sussex^  fuller,  in  his 
will,    dated     I     February,     1558/9,     proved 


X  March,  1558/9,  bequeaths  to  Joho  Kydder 
**  halfe  a  yockynggalo  of  silver'  and  a  nate," 
The  word  does  not  appear  to  be  in  the 
dictionaries  of  Prof.  Skeat  and  Halli- 
welJ-PhiUipps  under  any  spelling.  If  the 
^Vyockynggale'^had  been  undivided,  one  might 
have  guessed  it  to  be  an  associate  in  some 
way  of  the  hat.  I  have  no  recollection  of 
meeting  with  the  word  before,  and  shall  he 
glad  to  learn  what  it  means, 

Hamtltoi?  Hall,  F,S.A. 

Glamis  Mystery.  (See  6^^  S.  xl  35.)— Can 
any  one  give  the  name  and  date  of  the 
nmgazine  in  which,  M.  Gilchrist  says, "  a  rela- 
tion of  the  whole  matter  appeareri  1  I  hava 
every  reason  to  think  M*  Gilcmrist^b  descrip- 
tion is  connect,  as  it  accords  with  what  a 
venei-ablo  Scottisli  peeress  told  mo  in  the 
early  seventies,  and  which  she  had  from  Loi'd 
Strath  more  himself  He  told  her 
**  that  he  should  Eever  forget  what  he  had  to  fle© 
when  his  turti  came,  and  that  however  the  heir 
miffht  treat  lightly  his  &pfiroa<;httif;  trml,  he  hecume 
a  different  |>er80TJ  afterwards.'* 
What  he  saw  he  did  not  say,  iior  did  the 
venerable  countess  ask.  We  cannot  wonder 
at  this  when  we  know  what  It  was.  If  one 
mifht,   one  would    like    to   know    if   "the 


mental  power,  and  what  its  ways  of  life 
wore.  One  could  better  understand  the  owe 
if  the  bodv  from  the  waist  upwards  hm  been 
human,  'its  being  the  reverse  raakefi  it  a 
curious  problem,  which  doubtlesn  some  stdl 
alive  could  explain  ;  but  that  would  be  too 
delicate  a  matter  even  for  '  N.  &  Q-,'  j^rhap*. 

I  take  this  opportunity  of  renewing  my 
acquaintance  with  'N.  &^  Q.,'  having,  corre- 
sponded on  the  above  subject  at  the  referen^ 
above  given.  I  had  also  the  pleasure  of 
corre^ijondence  direct,  on  family  matteti, 
with  tJie  lady  who  signed  M,  Gilchmst  ;  hot 
1  fe-ar  the  lapse  of  years  has  brought  tU 
inevitable  change,  else  I  should  have  wntteo 
to  her  now,  I  do  not  see  her  name  m  m 
recent  indexes.  F,S.A.Soot. 

[We  h*ve  not  heard  of  Mifi8  GiLciiai^r  for  sctM 
yeara.] 

"Daraynk."  — What  is   the   meaning  i^ 

**  darayne  "  in  the  following  passage  from  wr- 
clay^s  '^Ship  of  Fools,'  sub-title  ^  Of  Hj^m  thit 
m  Jelotts/  vol  i.  p,  168  of  the  EdmburgJ 
©rlition  of  1874  ]  The  elosflary  to  the  mm 
ignores  the  passage,  and  no  meaning  ^^. 
to  the  word  in  the  '  New  English  DictionjfT 
(which  refers  to  "  deraign  ")  makes  anfthiBi 
but  nonsense  of  it  Indeed,  I  hardly  ace  ho*i 
verb  can  fit  there  at  all,  while  1  have  gone 
over  all  the  original  classical  authorities  fnf 
the  story  without  finding  any  proper  uiiue 
of  which  it  can  be  a  corruption* 
The  to  are  of  bras  that  callyil  was  rlamyne 

Coude  not  the  dan>acll  (by  name  Danen)  defefi<ie. 
Bui  that  Jupitt^r  foods  a  cautell  and  trayne 

In  a  eoldeti  shoure  into  her  to  discenda^ 


[**  Darayne  "^rfaimtri, 

Qatm  of  Caroline  Park,  EnoiBURfiH* 
—  These  beautiful  hammei-ed  -  iron  ^t^ 
which  were  taken  away  by  a  tenant  from 
Caroline  Park  at  the  beginning  of  the  m 
century  and  placed  at  Gogar  Lodge,  on 
the  Gla<igow  road,  where  I  have  often  ^ 
thetn,  have  apparently  l>een  removed  m^^^ 
LaHt  Jlay  I  went  to  take  a  photw^mp"  j* 
tliom,  but  found  they  were  gone :  nor  ooaw 
Edinburgh  frion<is  tM  roe  anythinjc  wJ^j^: 
their  present  situatiort-  Ferhai*s  '/^.^H- 
will  enlighten  me  on  the  subject.     iBAGt^^ 

Grilvt  ExrtiBiTiON.—What  was  t\w  ^^ 
of  a  «ea^n  ticket  for  the  Great  ExhimW 
of  is-oi  ?  I  I  ^ 

Wkllmeek  Decoy,  Lincolnshire, -Cjn 
any  of  the  readei-s  of  '  N.  &  Q/  tell  m**  ^^ 
wh'ereaboutfl  of  this  old  decoy  in  Lincoln' 
hire?   It  i«  said  to  be  haunted  by  the  glio^^ 


Being  "  bmi  power  of  speech  ot  any  sort  oi,ol  b»  l^trntet  ^^yiyman  and  hia  dog,  whowetB 


11.  apkil  13. 1001.1     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


289 


>d  there  long  a>go.  It  is  also  said 
J  coy  met!  will  not  go  ntBtt  it  after 
id  will  make  a  lon^  rautid  t<>  avoid 
i  f mines  and  ueta  formerly  used 
ive  long  since  gont*  to  decay,  Some 
readers  may  have  heard  thia  story, 

F.    B.    DOVETON. 
Id,  Torquay. 

s  THE  Lung.'*  of  London.  —  When 
i  expression  first  used?  In  *  Green- 
ir,'  in  *  Sketches  by  Eo^'  the  author 
ced  his  sketch  by  asking  : — 
l>arks  \ye '  the  Uuiga  of  London/  we  wonder 
fenwjeh  Fair  is— a  i^eriodical  breaking  out* 
tm,  &  Hort  of  spring' rash :  a  three  drvyg' 
ich  cooJ*  the  blood  for  six  months  after- 
id  at  the  e3C  pi  ration  of  which  London  is 
M  ita  old  boDita  of  plotldin^  indtiatry^  fus 
and  coniplet'eily  aa  if  nothing  had  ever 
to  disturb  thetn,"— Chap.  xiL  p.  98,  Now 
.ion. 

entlemanh  Magazine,  1827^  p.  124,  the 
>n  is  made  use  of  by  a  correspondent 
bly  Carter— in  quotation  naarke, 
ould  seem  to  imply  it  was  then  of 
igin.  John  Hebb. 

S.  I3C.  m  J.  H.  W,  state*  that  Mr.  Wind- 
the  phrase  in  hia  apeech,  30  June,  1808. 
I  the  encroachments  on  Hvde  Park,  ana 
\M  origin  to  Lord  Chatham,] 

OBERT  Thomson,  LL.D.— On  24  June 
I  Eev.  Robert  Thomson,  LL.D*,  pur- 
le  estate  and  ad  vow  son  of  Longs  to  we, 
geshire.  In  1810  he  presRuted  him- 
6  living,  but  resigned  it  five  years 
itinuing,  howeverj  bo  live  at  Long- 
ill.  He  died  0  January,  1831  (tablet 
ill  chapel,  and  GentiemaTi's  Mfigazine^ 
'),  Dr.  Thomson  married  Charlotte 
Luck,  and  had  i^sue  two  sons,  John 
ry,  and  seven  daughters,  Elizabeth, 
iy  Helen,  Augusta,  Jemima,  Sophia, 
rietta.  I  am  anxious  to  obtain  in- 
1  regarding  Dr.Thomson^s  parentage, 
ving  f  descend  an  t%  and  the  source  of 
»r*s  degree,  which,  so  far  as  I  can 
,  is  not  of  Oxford,  Uambndge, 
,  Dublin,  Edinburgh,  Glasgow^ 
■ews,  or  Aberdeen.  He  seems  to 
some  reputation  in  tiondon  acien- 
es  as  far  back  as  1786  {Gentleman's 
\  xcviii.  i.  fjR3),  A  younger  brother, 
imaon,  B.A.  Cantab,  (St.  John's  ColL) 
L  I7r>3,  0.1).  mm,  a  native  of  Edin- 
led  in  1817  «t  York  Terrace,  Ken- 
fhere  he  harJ  been  **  master  of  a  long 
sd  and  highly  reapect^i  academy  " 
'm's  Mmffazirte^  Ixxxvii.  ii.  571). 

tYUbrmryt  Aberda&u. 


SiE  James  Eyre  {1734-99).— The  Gtntle- 
man's  Magasint  for  1/87,  part  ii.  p.  644^ 
records  the  death,  on  5  July,  1787,  of  the  wife 
of  Sir  James  Eyre,  Knt^  Chief  Baron  of  the 
Exchequer  (17H7)  and  dliief  Justice  of  the 
Common  Pleas  (1793),  Can  any  reader 
supply  particulars  of  this  lady's  maiden 
name  and  parentage  and  the  date  of  her 
marriage?  Sir  Jame€  Eyre  subsequently,  on 
16  April,  1 791 J  married  Mary,  daughter  of 
Henry  Southwell,  of  Wisbech,  Cambridge- 
shire, Esquire  (see  Gentleniari's  MagaziTie  tor 
1791,  part  i.  p.  381,  and  Wateon's  *  History  of 
Wisbech;  1827,  p.  265).  In  the  life  of  Sir 
James  E^re  given  in  the  *  Diet  Kat  Biog./ 
vol.  xviii.  p.  99,  his  marriages  are  not  men- 
tioned. H.  C. 

Jewish  Actors.— I  ara  anxious  to  find  out 
how  many  Jews  and  Jewesses  have  adopted 
the  stage  as  a  profession  in  England  from 
the  earliest  times.  The  names  will,  I  think, 
suffice  for  my  purpose.  8.  J,  A.  F. 

[They  are  very  nutneroua.] 

Official  Lists.— Where  are  to  be  found 
lists  of  the  officials  of  the  Courts  of  Aug- 
mentation (chancellor,  treasurer,  attorney, 
solicitor,  ^c.)  and  Wards  and  Liveries  (master, 
attorney,  receiver,  auditor,  &c.) ;  also  the 
Masters  of  Requests  1  W.  D.  Pink. 

**Shoehorkko."— (Jould  any  reader  oblige 
mo  with  a  reference  to  an  instance  of  the  use 
of  thia  word  t  I  cannot  find  "shoehorn  "as  a 
verb  in  any  available  dictionary.  It  is  so 
used  in  the  following  cutting  from  the  Barrow 
Jiorih-  Western  Daily  Mail  of  6  March  :— 

"It  may  be  true  that  e^^perta  differ  on  all  thing*, 
but  there  must,  naturnUy  b«  a  wider  differeui^o 
between  an  expert  who  knows  hi^  business,  such 
for  in?t4ince  as  a  Commander- in -Chief,  and  a  non- 
expert who  has  had  no  training  for  the  work^  and 
who  ia  shoehomtd  into  a  position  like  that  of  the 
War  Secretary  at  the  capnce  of  the  Prime  Mlniiter 
for  tbe  time  being." 

W.  DUEIE. 

Barrow, 

Charter  Conoitions. — In  the  charter  by 
which  Alan,  E^irl  of  Brittany,  grants  an 
estate  in  Cambridgeshire,  including  the 
church  of  Swave^ey,  to  tlie  abbey  of 
BS.  Sergitia  and  Bacchus  at  Angers,  there 
are  two  conditions  which  seem  to  be  unusual. 
(1)  All  the  offerings  and  fees  belonging  to 
this  church  are  to  he  free  of  episcopal  custom 
and  service,  except  sixpence  at  Easter  for 
chrism  (**praeter  sex  denaritjs  ad  Pascham 
pro  chrismate").  (2)  A  mouk  \%  Ui  iis.U*sKv^ 
the  archdeacoii'^  v\H\t&l\QT\,  uol  \3eR;swvw&  iim&- 
tomary,  bmb  lot  \ovtt  ol  \iVl%  ax^Xx^^^*:^^^  ^^^ 


290 


NOTES  AND   QUERIES.     »*  S.  VIL  April  13.  IflOl. 


honour  of  the  biahop  (Dugdale,  vol  vi. 
p,  1001).  Are  them  conditions  to  he  found 
m  simLlar  charters  ?  W.  M.  P. 


(9"^  B.  vii.  30B,) 

Mv  friend  51.  Jean  Grellot,  tlie  learned 
President  of  the  Swi^s  Heraldic  Society,  ha^ 
favoured  me  with  an  answer  to  fche  above 
queHtiorK  His  note  is  forwarded  in  original. 
Your  correspondent  is  probably  aware  of  the 
By  stem  generally  in  force  abroad,  by  which 
all  the  sons  of  a  count,  or  a  man  with  tlie 
title  of  </«  or  vfm^  take  the  title  of  count  or 
cfe,  their  sons  and  sons'  sons  carrying  on 
the  title  from  generation  to  generation,  so 
that  those  with  titles  are  fairly  numerous. 
The  eldest  son  is  stylod  the  Count  de  X. ;  the 
younger  sons  add  the  Uhristian  name,  Ci>unt 
Alascander  de  X.,  and  so  on.  Foreigners  find 
it  sooaetimes  difficult  to  understand  the  sys- 
tem of  our  country  by  which  the  eldest  son 
succeeds  to  the  title,  tne  younger  sons  bear- 
ing a  courtesy  title  only,  and  their  sons 
becoming  merged  in  the  untitled  raas^.  Ac- 
cording to  the  foreign  system  the  younger 
sons  of  the  Duke  of  Marlborough,  and  all 
their  male  dencendants  from  generation  to 
generation,  would  be  Prince  A.  or  B.  de 
Marlborough,  instead  of  plain  Mr.  A-  or  B, 
UhurchilL  J.  H.  HrvKXT-CAfiNAc, 

SchloM  Wildeck. 

As  to  its  origin,  the  Swiss  nobility  may  be 
divided  into  five  clas-ses  :— 

1.  The  counts  and  Imrons  of  feudal  ages 
who  were  the  sovereign  lords  of  the  different 
parta  of  the  country.  They  only  owed  alle- 
^ance  to  the  emperor.  To  these  belonged 
the  Counts  of  Kyburg,  Habsburg,  Nouchatel, 
Gruy^re,  kci  the  Barons  of  Falkenstein. 
Grandson,  ifec.  Their  sovereign  rights  jMUsaed 
in  the  course  of  the  fourteenth  and  fift-eenth 
centuries  into  the  hands  of  the  republican 
authorities  as  the  counties,  ifec,,  were  absorljed 
by  the  cantons.  All  tha«ie  families  have  long 
since  become  ejttinct. 

2.  The  ministerials,  who  held  feudal  offices 
or  fiefs  under  the  connts  and  barons.  They 
were  lords  of  their  tenements,  in  German 
fferr,  in  French  seignei&i^s.  Their  tenement 
was  called  IferrBchiift,  Menmetirte  (lortJdom,  if 
we  may  say  so).  A  few,  like  the  Hall wy Is, 
the  Blonays,  the  Gingina,  ike,  still  own   the 

cB&tlm  from  which  they  derive  their  name, 
but  tJmy  have  of  course  lost  the   iud\c;i&\ 
nghts  which  they  once  possessed. 


3.  The  patrician  families  which  were  alone 
eligible  for  the  councils  of  some  of  the 
towns,  like  Berne,  Frihurg,  Lucerne,  Zurich, 
6i.c.  These  towns  were  not,  as  they  are  now, 
merely  the  capitals  of  the  canton  j  they  were 
the  sovereign  of  the  country,  which  had  no 
voice  whatever  in  the  government,  being  the 
s  u  h  j  ec  t.  Most  of  t  h  eae  fa  mil  ies  had  acquired 
some  of  tlie  fiefs  once  possessed  by  the 
original  feudal  families. 

4.  TiiG  military  nobility.  Officers  of  the 
Swiss  regiments  in  foreign  service  who  had 
distinguishefl  themselves  were  often  i-aised 
to  the  rank  of  nol>ility  by  the  sovereign  whom 
they  served  (kings  of  France,  eroperora  of 
Germany,  &c.y  On  their  return  home  they 
were  usually  admitted  into  the  ranks  of  the 
patrician  families ;  but  if  the^  had  received 
from  the  foreign  sovereign  a  title  of  count  or 
baroiu  as  was  sometimes  the  case,  the«0  titles, 
though  occasionally  ^iven  by  courtesy,  were 
never  officially  recognized. 

5.  A  fifth  category  may  be  made  for  the 
nobility  of  Neuchatel.  This  canton  was  a 
monarchy  till  1B48,  The  prince  gave  the 
privileges  and  rights  of  nobility  to  persorw 
m  wanted  particularly  to  honour,  usually 
without,  but  sometimes  with  titles  ;  but  these 
concessions  became  perfect  only  when  »pj 

grove*!  of  and  registered  by  the  Council  or 
tate  of  the  prtncipality.  These  titles  were 
here  officially  recognised  as  lat-e  a^  1848,  but 
since  that  year,  as  in  the  rest  of  SwitEerUno, 
they  are  no  longer  officially  admitted. 

All  the  members  of  families  belonging  to 
the  ahove-mentionefl  categories  had  in  former 
times  the  right  to  be  knighted.  Since  the 
formality  of  Icnigh ting  fell  into  disuse  with 
the  di^jappearance  of  the  feudal  system,  they 
were  considered  to  be  knights  by  hereditary 
right.  Nearly  all  these  familie-s  used,  ww 
still  use,  the  prefix  tvjin  or  de,  and  were  styled 
edet  or  noble.  Though  the  modem  ct^stita- 
tions  do  not  recognize  any  rank  of  nobility 
or  distinction  of  |)ersf>ns,  still  the  prefix  w 
officially  used,  it  being  admitted,  by  a  some- 
what liberal  interpretation,  that  it  has  be- 
come part  of  the  name, 

Jkak  Grkllet» 
President  of  the  Swiss  Heraldic  Society. 


Fantastic  Figtiox  (^  S.  vii.  lCl).-^n 
rea^ling  Ma  Yardlby's  interesting  note  on 
tlijs  subject  it  has  occurred  to  rae  U*at  some 
distinction  should  he  made  between  the 
genuine  folk-story  and  the  modern  iraitatioiw 
which  are  due  entii^ly  to  the  inveutivew* 
of  their  au thorn.  Except  in  form,  there  jsWJ 
T^ii&mXiWL'c^  Vsfciveen  *Zadig'  or   *Vakhei 


\ 


«»8.viLArRiLi3.igoi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


291 


The  true  folk-tale,  which  is  the  genuine  out- 
come of  popular  belief^  has  no  claim  to  be 
included  in  the  ranks  ot  **  fantastic  fiction." 

I  am  surprised  to  find  that  Mr.  Yardley 
has  omitted  from  his  list  a  book  which  is  as 
superior  to  *  Vathek '  as  *  Gulliver '  is  superior 
to  '  Peter  Wilkins.'  I  shall  never  forget  the 
eveninf^,  some  forty-five  years  ago,  when  the 
dear  fnend  of  my  boyhood,  Edward  Gruflfydd 
Peacock,  brought  to  my  father's  house  a  copy 
of  a  little  book  whicli  had  just  been  com- 
pleted bjr  his  brother-in-law,  and  which  to  a 
lad  of  sixteen  seemed  filled  with  all  the 
colour  and  glory  of  the  East.  As  one  of  the 
sections  of  this  charming  book  has  lately 
been  reprinted  in  a  separate  form,  I  presume 
that  'The  Shaving  of  Shagpat'  still  finds 
readers ;  and  though  the  taste  for  fantastic 
fiction  may  die  out^  it  may  be  hoped  that  a 
work  in  which  charm  of  diction  and  delicacy 
of  treatment  are  combined  with  the  airiest 
humour  and  with  true  poetic  fancy  will  long 
appeal  to  an  appreciative  circla 

W.  F.  Pridkaux. 

Steere  (9"»  S.  vii.  49).— The  following  refer- 
ences to  pedigrees  of  families  bearing  this 
name  occur  in  Dr.  George  W.  Marshall's 
'Genealogist's  Guide,'  1893  :— 

Steer.— Stonehouse's  *  History  of  the  Isle 
)f  Axholme,'  344  :  Reed's  *  History  of  the  Isle 
»f  Axholme,'  edited  by  T.  C.  Fletcher,  64 ; 
Eastwood's  '  History  of  Ecclesfield,'  207  ; 
N.  A  Q.,'  2»>  S.  iv.  90,  219,  297. 

Steere.— Berry's  *  Surrey  Genealogies,'  34 ; 
iarke's  *Landea  Gentry,'  5supp.;  Dalla way's 
Sussex,'  ii.  1, 334  ;  Burke's  'Colonial  Gentry,' 

.  4.  ASTARTE. 

Funeral  Cards  (9">  S.  vii.  88,  171).— I  have 
lO  doubt  that  funeral  tickets,  the  precursors 
f  funeral  cards,  were  verj'  generally  issued 
3  the  eighteenth  century  on  the  decease  of 
lersons  of  any  consideration,  though  they  are 
low,  so  far  as  my  experience  goes,  extremely 
earce,  being  much  more  likely  to  be  de- 
troyed  than  trade  cards.  Having  never,  I 
lelieve,  missed  a  chance  of  obtaining  one 
rhen  offered,  I  only  possess  eleven  of  these 
ather  gruesome  productions.  They  are  on 
laper,  usually  of  large  size,  some  of  them 
leasuring  as  much  as  10  in.  in  length  by 
in.  in  height.  The  announcement  of  the 
late  of  the  funeral— sometimes  entirely  in 
irint,  sometimes  in  MS.^  sometimes  a  few 
ngraved  words  and  the  particulars  in  MS.— 
I  usually  framed  by  a  border,  more  or  less 
eoorative,  very  symbolical  of  the  future  state 
i  the  bodtf  of  the  defunct,  of  its  conveyal 
o  its  restioff- place,  and  the  ^rief  of  the  I 
mrviwon^  juia  in  one  or  two  casee  conceived  j 


in  the  worst  possible  taste.  These  curious 
productions  were  issued  in  connexion  with 
the  funerals  respectively  of  Edward  Crouch, 
16  May,  1725 ;  Mrs.  Lydia  Benn,  1  May,  1740 ; 
Peter  Theobald,  November,  1742;  Isaac 
Spurrier,  15  August,  1749 ;  Sir  Hans  Sloane, 
Bart.,  18  January,  1763:  Mathew  Pryor, 
27  May,  1753;  Edward  Williams,  12  April, 
1761 ;  Mrs.  Margaret  Smith,  "  18th  inst.,"  no 
date  (about  1770);  James  Batty,  Esq., 
10  March,  1806,  procession  from  Great  Room 
of  the  Society  of  Arts  to  St.  Paul's  Cathe- 
dral. The  wnting  on  this  ticket  is  in  the  hand 
of  Mr.  Graves,  father  of  the  late  Mr.  Graves, 
the  publisher,  of  Pall  Mall,  from  whom  I  ob- 
tained it.  The  other  tickets  have  not  been 
filled  in.  A  well  known  ticket  by  Bartolozzi 
expresses  the  thanks  of  the  executors  and 
family  of  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  for  the  tribute 
of  respect  paid  by  those  who  attended  at 
his  funeral  in  St.  Paul's,  3  March,  1792.  There 
is,  of  course,  the  well-known  invitation  en- 

f  raved  by  Hogarth,  of  which  I  have  only 
reland's  facsimile.         J.  Eliot  Hodokin. 

"Nunty"  (9^  S.  vii.  130,  194).— I  think 
"grumpy"  is  the  nearest  synonym  to  this 
word  as  I  have  generally  heard  it  used  in 
Nottinghamshire  and  Leicestershire.  What 
the  root  meaning  may  be  I  cannot  say. 
Does  the  phrase  "  nun  ting  about "  (=behav- 
ing  in  a  sulky,  dissatisfied,  disagreeable 
manner)  throw  any  light  upon  it  ? 

C.  C.  B. 

It  is  a  strange  coincidence,  which  I  do  not 
think,  however,  fortuitous,  that  here  in  the 
Mark  of  Brandenburg  the  same  word  exists 
with  exactly  the  ^me  meaning  as  the  East 
Yorkshire  vocable.  Nuttig  (pronounced  nut- 
tich)  means  klein^  unbedeutend :  "en  nuttijot 
Kind  ";  "is  det  en  nuttijet  Ding."  It  belongs 
to  the  substantive  die  Nutte^  a  small  child, 
girl,  a  small  marble,  which  exists  also  in 
Hanover.  I  am  inclined  to  regard  the  Eng- 
lish only  as  a  nasalized  form  of  the  original 
one.  Popular  speech  is  very  fond  of  nasaliza- 
tion, especially  before  dentals.  I  may  be 
allowed  to  give  some  instances:  to  split, 
substantive  splint,  is  also  in  German  Spliiter 
and  Splinter ;  to  trundle,  German  dialectal 
word  trudeln=to  roll ;  German  Trutschel  and 
Tnmtschel=c\umsy  fat  woman  ;  gantlope  for 
gatlojie.  As  the  English  lower  classes  speak 
of  the  "  milentai  y  "  insteacl  of  the  military, 
ours  say  *'  viaentiren  "  for  viniiren^  to  search  ; 
"  sich  munffkiren  "  for  Rich  moauiren.  In  the 
Berlin  jargon  the  battalion  of  Gardeschiitzen, 
who,  before  their  tra.tv%feT^t\<i^  \ft  Vk\fe  ^^.-^x^s^^ 
had  been  garmouwV  m  '^«^aiOc«^^  vyc^vv 
once  belonged  to  ¥tu^\»i^,  Hi«t^  ^^^x\wva 


292 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,    in-*  8.  vii.  apkil  13.  woi. 


styled  "die  Neffschandeller."  Under  the 
8ame  influence  the  French  patin^  which  had 
been  imported  by  the  Huguenots  under 
the  Great  Elector,  was  made  into  Pantine 
(HolzpantofifelX  which  now  is  the  correct 
form.  "  Paragon  "  is  in  French  jxirangon ; 
jfomvwn.  Old  French  pepon^  German  die 
Pfeoe  (Kliirbiss).  from  ttcttcui/,  ripe ;  atnsi 
became  in  the  Norman-French  dialect  issint, 
isseint  On  the  other  hand,  ratponce^  German 
die  Bapumel,  das  Bapunzchen,  has  been 
changed  in  English  to  rampion. 

Dr.  G.  Krueoer. 
Berlin. 

Monolith  with  Cup-markings  in  Hyde 
Park  (9">  S.  vii.  69, 115,  195).— If  I  am  correct 
in  believing  that  the  stone  about  which 
inquiry  is  made  is  that  in  the  enclosure  at 
the  eastern  end  of  the  Serpentine,  I  may  be 
able  to  supply  some  information  about  it.  It 
was  erected  in  Hvde  Park  in  1862,  having 
been  excavated  at  Moorswater,  near  Liskeard, 
in  Cornwall.  A  poor  fellow  called  William 
Sandy  was  killed  by  an  accident  during  its 
extraction    on    3   January,    1862,    and    two 

Ehlets  were  published  on  his  death 
iiotheca  Cornubiensis '  of  Boase  and 
»ney.  ii.  622).  It  might  be  well  to 
consult  tnese  and  the  Cornish  newspapers 
of  that  date.  W.  P.  Courtney. 

Reform  Club. 

Source  of  Quotation  (9**»  S.  vii.  8).— 
Blood  he  had  view'd. 

Byron,  *  Corsair,*  canto  iii.  at.  x. 

W.  C.  B. 

Ireland  and  Frogs  (9"'  S.  vii.  186).— There 
is  a  good  deal  of  curious  information  on  this 
subject  in  the  introduction  to  the  Clarendon 
Press  edition  of  Adamnan's  *Life  of  St. 
Columba,'  ch.  ii.  §  6.  It  has  been  thought 
probable  that  the  legend  is  based  on  a 
popular  misinterpretation  of  the  saint's 
name  as  Pad-rekr,  toad  -  expeller  (Kuno 
Meyer  in  Folk-Lore,  v.  302).  In  Fiace's  hymn 
St.  Patrick  is  called  **a  strong  expeller  of 
evil,"  and  that  would  be  a  hint  to  ouild  on. 
The  real  reason  for  the  comparative  im- 
munity from  reptiles  enjoyed  by  Ireland  is 
shown  in  the  note  to  p.  xxxii  in  the  above 
introduction,  continu^  on  p.  xxxiii.  A 
gentleman  from  Newcastle  in  Westmeath 
told  me  in  May,  1896,  that  he  had  often 
heard  it  said  that  St.  Patrick  hit  a  frog 
on  the  back,  and   that  is  why  frogs  have 


journals— that  entitled  *  Summer '—the  Con- 
cord naturalist  says  (p.  200)  :— 

"  The  morning  jaflory  still  fresh  at  3  p.m.  A  fine, 
large,  delicate  bell,  with  waved  border,  some  pure 
white,  some  reddened.  The  buds  open  perfectly  in 
a  vase.    I  find  them  open  when  I  wake  at  4  a.m." 

Again,  at  p.  230  he  says  :— 

"The  Convolmdxu  sepium,  bindweed.  Morning 
glory  is  the  best  now.    It  always  refreshes  nic  to 

see  it I  associate  it  with  holiest  morning  hours. 

It  may  j)re8ide  over  my  morning  walks  and  thoughts. 
There  is  a  flower  for  every  mood  of  the  mind." 
Q.  L.  Apperson. 

This  flower  is,  I  believe,  the  Contfolvulw 
major,  and  is  seen  in  several  colours— pink, 
blue,  white,  <fec.    It  has  an  "early  closing 
habit,  shutting  about  noon ;  hence,  1  suppose, 
its  name,  morning  glory. 

Julian  Marshall. 

In  reply  to  C.  C.  B.,  morning  glory  is 
the  name  generally  given  in  Canada  and 
the  United  States  to  the  common  climbing 
annual  the  Convolvulus  mnjor,  I  suppose 
the  name  is  considered  appropriate  because 
the  blooms  are  fully  expanded  all  the  morn- 
ing, but  close  soon  after  midday. 

Ll.  Lloyd. 

"Carrick"  (9"»  S.  viL  208).— I  was  much 


hopped  ever  since. 
Durham. 


J.  T.  F. 


*' Morning  Glory  "  (9"»  S.  vii.  200).-ln  ou^ 
of  the  ooUeotiona  of  notings  from  Tboreau'^  \U>  ^twi!^>i 


interested    in    this   query  on   carrtcx^  ana 
equally  surprised  to  nnd  it  in  the  diarv  of  « 
citizen  of  Exeter  (1631-43).    Can  this  be  an 
early  example  of  the  ubiquitous  Scot  ?    The 
word,  I  may  safely  say,  is  now  obsolete  in 
Scotland,  and  at  no  time  was  it  more  than 
local.    Some' time  ago  I  got  returns  frooi 
manv    correspondents   about   such    dialect 
words  from  all  quarters.    No  one  knew  any- 
thing about  carricky  not  even  in  my  native 
district,  where  every  boy,  about  fifty  years 
ago.  knew  no  other  name   for    his  shinty 
stick,  always,  if  possible,  a  whin  or  broom 
shoot  with  the  curved  root  portion  as  striking 
part.    Jamieson  was  right  to  limit  the  word 
to    East    Fife.     Of    his    carrickin   I  know 
nothing.     The  *  E.  D.D.'  simply  uses  JamieeOT 
for  carrick.     The  word  seems  to  me  tobe 
nothing  but  a  variant  of  crook.     The  Soot 
dearly    loves    a    good    grip    of    his  worrf^ 
especially  if  there  be  an  r  in  them.  It  womd 
be  quite  natural  for  the  herdboy  to  use  nw 
crook  as  a  hockey  stick.     Readers  of  the 
*E.D.D.*  ought  to  bear  in  mind  that,  wher- 
ever Janiiason  is  the  authority,  the  bulk  oi 
his  matter  has  been  practically  obsolete  m 
Scotland  for  far  more  than  a  generation. 
James  Colyill*- 

Parrot  in  '  Hudibras  '  (9^  S.  vi  388,  ?^ 
41^Y— ^^'^^  ^"et^aMi  that  whatever  •PI^*^*'?^ 


«»^  8.  VII.  April  13. 1001.)      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


293 


Butler  in  the  parrot's  phraues  **  Rope  ^  and 
'*  Walk,  knave,  walk,''  he  wa«  not  the  inventor 
of  thera.  They  were  proverbial,  and  older 
than  Butler,  for  Shakeiipeare  mentions  **  the 
prophecy,  like  the  parrot,  *  Beware  the  rope's 
endT' "  {'  Uomedy  of  Errors,*  IV.  iv.)  j  and  Ben 
Jon^on  introfluces  a  dialaguo  with  a  parrot : 
What  '*  that  you  aay  ?  How,  w;ilk,  knavo,  walk  I 
I  think  you  're  angry  with  lite,  Pol. 

^Mairn^tic  Lady '  (1632),  V.  v. 

W,  C.  B. 

Sack  and  Sugajl  (9^  S.  vii  148K— Sngar- 
pluni8,  candy,  lumps  of  delight,  syrup??,  and 
such  like  deli<mcies,  from  the  yoar  1253,  are 
fully  diecu^sed  in  *  K.  A  Q,/  8"*  S,  iii,  407, 
4^;  iv.  58,  118,  193. 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman; 

An  Ahsricak  Invasion  (9'''  S,  vii,  227),— 
The  refrjponsibility  for  the  "orthographic 
heresies  complained  of  by  H,  T.  rests  with 
brother  Jonathan,  Sir  W.  Bemnt's  book 
having  been  printed  here  from  stereotype 
plat&s  sent  from  America  under  the  American 
copyright  law.  F<  Abahs, 

I  was  glad  to  see  H.  T.*s  prot^t  against 
this  abominable  habit  (manifested  by  some  of 
our  leading  publishers)  of  having  books  by 
English  authors  and  intended  for  English 
readers  publishefl  in  American  spelling.  I 
my  sell  f  remonstrated  with  the  representatives 
of  Mesars,  MacmtUan  &  Co,  in  their  shop  (or 
"«bore,*'  m  I  suppose  they  will  *soon  be  calling 
it)  at  Cambridge  for  printing  their  'Life  of 
Cromwell,'  hy  Morley,  according  to  the 
American  "notions"  of  spelling.  It  is  a 
sign  of  the  times.  To  be  distinctively  Eng- 
lish is  nowadays  stigmatised  as  Chauvinism, 
jingoism,  insularity,  and  what  not* 

Keoinald  Haines. 
Uppingham, 

H,  T.  seems  to  have  forgotten  that  tkeat^^ 
was  so  spelt  in  England  some  three  hundred 
ye^rs  ago.  The  Pilgrim  Fathers*  carried  it  to 
America.  Of  course,  the  word  is  decid^ly 
Qgiy,  but  Ui  accuse  the  Americans  of  having 
per])etrate^l  it  is  absurd.  If  your  contributor 
will  look  back  into  English  books  of  long  ago 
h©  will  find  many  words  spelt  exactly  ^  they 
are  printed  in  America  to-day.  In  '  The 
Whole  Art  of  the  8fcage.»'  1684,  "theatre''  is 
spelt  (hmiier.  S.  J.  A,  F, 

CAHrSELLS  OP  ARDKINOLASa  (^^^  S.  vil.  187). 
—An  account  of  the  AHkingla^^s  family  of 
Campbells  in  Anderson's  *  Scottish  Nation,* 
i  569,  opens  thus  : — 

"  The  Ardkingtiiss  fsmily  wwa  au  old  branch  of 
Ubs  hmmt  of  Az^}(5.    8ir  Valin  (hmpbeU,  the  aoii 


and  heir  of  Jamoe  Ca.in|n>eU  of  Ardkinglass, 
doscended  horn  the  Canipb^lls  of  Lorn,  by  Siary 
hia  wife,  the  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  C^mT^bell  of 
Glenorchy»  was  creftl-ed  a  baronet  io  1670-  The 
family  ended  in  an  beirfeaa,  who  married  into  th© 
Livingstone  fatnllyj  and  was  the  mother  of  Bir 
Jamps  Livings  tone,  baronet,  whose  go»,  Sir  James 
Livingatooe  Campbell  of  ArdkinglasSf  was  for  some 
lime  governor  of  Stirling  Cattle, 

After  telling  of  Sir  James's  appointments 
and  activities,  the  narrative  goes  on  to  say  that 
on  Ills  death  in  1788  he  was  succeeded  by  his 
son  Sir  Alexander,  who  diefl  in  1810,  when 
the  title  and  estate  descended  to  the  next 
heir  of  entail.  Col.  James  Callander,  his 
cousin,  son  of  Sir  Jameses  sister  Mary  Living- 
stone and  Sir  John  Callander  of  Craigforthi 
the  celebrated  antiquary-.  On  CoL  Callan- 
der's death,  without  legitimate  issue,  the 
title  became  extinct.  Thomas  Bayne. 

Being  a  descendant  of  the  CampbeJls  of 
Ardkinglass  and  having  many  notes  concern- 
ing them  from  1493  and  a  complete  descent 
from  1(546,  I  would  probably  be  able  to  give 
Mr.  Niall  D.  Campbell  information  on  any 
particular  point  he  may  require, 

Louisa  Wallace-James* 

Tyne  House^  Haddington,  N,B. 

Date  Wanted  (9^**  S.  vii.  27,  96,  153,  2371— 
Mr,  Myddelton's  communication  at  the  laat 
reference  makes  it  clear  that  no  fewer  than 
four  correspondents,  including  myself,  have 
blundered  over  this  question,  >iy  blunder 
is  astonishing  by  reason  that  before  the 
simultaneous  appearance  of  "the  first  two 
replies  "  I  sent  in  a  solution  of  the  problem 
identical  with  M  r.  SIyddelton's,  giving  the 
date  as  4  June,  which  was  not  inserted. 
Gnomon's  note,  however^  "fogged  "  me^  and 
in  ray  eagerness  to  correct  his  figure^s  I 
unfortunately  lapsed  into  his  error  with 
regard  to  the  negative  sign  used  in  his 
equation  ins  tea*]  of  the  positive — an  error 
that  I  might  have  avoided  merely  by  looking 
at  Sir  H.  Nicolas's  tables.  I  find  there,  for 
instance,  that  in  1627— w^ hen  the  difference 
between  the  styla-a  was  still  ten  days,  as  in 
the  prectKling  century— the  date  of  Easter  is 
given  as  25  March  in  the  Old  and  4  Anril  in 
the  New  Style ;  0»S.  25  May  (a  raontli.  like 
March,  of  thirty -one  days)  corresponds  tlie  re- 
fore  to  NK  4  June  alike  for  1627  and  1543. 
I  apologise  lor  occupying  so  much  space  in 
demonstrating  what  is  soobvious. 

F.  Adams, 

DLrrroN   Family  (9*'^  S.  vi.  409,  517  ;  vii, 
54,  117,  174).— The  Dutt-tjin  who  is  moat  likely 
to  have  been  at  Poictiers^  tho\i%V\  va  X-W^wvts^ 
of  WaWB    rsLlbct    ttmn   m  "Vjot^  Iv^^ifc^ 
retiQue,  would  be  Tbotaa»  d^  ^^Vwj^^  ^^^W 


294 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9»^  a  vil  April  is.  iwl 


wa8  afterwards  knighted,  and  died  in  13*11. 
In  l^Fid,  accorriing  to  tho  Chester  Plea  UoUs, 
he  lia<J  Letters  of  IVuteclion,  being  about  t-o 
ffo  bey  on  (J  sea  in  the  retinue  oi  the  Pritjce  of 
Wales  (the  Black  Prince),  whom  he  had  pro- 
bably  previoufily  accompanieil  in  tliC!  same 
manner.  The  French  and  Gascon  roils  at 
the  Public  Record  Office^  which  I  have  had 
searched  with  regard  tti  the  Duttons  pre- 
vioufily to  Poictners,  do  not  appear  to  throw 
any  light  upon  thera  ;  but  the  military 
accounts  of  that  time  which  are  also  there 
re<xird  a  Hoberfc  de  Dutton  amongst  the  men- 
at-arms  in  Lord  Aud  ley's  TOtinuc,  at  the 
wagof  of  IM,  per  day.  I  am  tohl  that  in 
these  accounts  esquires  are  in  elm  led  under 
the  description  of  men-at-anuH,  and  that  the 
pay  of  an  esquire  was  l^t  per  naj^ 

As  this  Robert  de  Dutton  was  apparently 
of  the  St^fforrlshire  Dufetonat  who  were 
knights  of  that  shire  in  the  fourteenth  cen* 
tury,  his  identity  with  them  might  dispose  of 
the  difficulty  as  suggested  by  the  Rev.  G. 
Shkyd  in  hia  interesting  reply,  that  the 
Cheshire  Duttona  do  not  appear  to  have  owed 
service  to  Lord  Audley,  This  they  certainly 
did  not,  as  they  hekl  m  chief  of  the  king  by 
the  usual  knight's  service. 

With  regard  to  the  derivation  of  the  fret  in 
the  Dutton  arms^  it  appears  that  in  the  roll 
of  tho-^  who  were  present  at  the  siege  of 
Caerlavorock,  in  1300,  Hugh  le  Deapencer  is 
there  recorded  as  bcsaring  similar  arms  to  the 
Duttonst  but  differenced  with  a  bend.  As 
the  Despeneer  family  progenitor  is  said  to 
have  been  a  Dutton.  such  early  recorded  use 
of  the  arms  half  a  century  before  Poic tiers 
is  not  in  favour  of  the  trariition. 

Mb,  8neyd»  I  observe,  describes  the  Dutton 
fret  as  argent.  It  has  always  been  borne  by 
the  family  as  or— "Red,  fretty  yellow/' as  it 
is  described  by  the  Oa^rlaverocTc  chronicler. 
In  ancient  delineations,  Uny.  it  is  in  variably 
shown  as  "  fretty,"  with  each  of  itn  lines  con- 
tinued throughout  the  field,  like  lattice- work, 
and  not  in  its  present  form  of  a  (single)  fret 

M, 

BELL-RINniN(>  AT  Wakks  (9**"  S.  vii,  188X— 

This  in  the  north  of  England  was  a  very 
common  practice,  and  many  examples^  might 
be  quoted.  The  following  is  from  the  church' 
warden  a'  accounts  of  Rochdale  :  **  Aug.  1649. 
Ringinge  on  the  Hushbering  Day,  1a."  The 
wakes  in  many  par  Us  (>f  Lancashire  were 
known  as  *' rush  bearings." 

Henry  Finn  wick. 
I  should  think  the  practice  of  ringing  the 
belh  Bt  A  waice  is  as  old  as  the  festival  \W\i 


are  many  curious  people  nowadays  who 
cannot  be  prevailed  upon  to  absent  them- 
selves from  wakes,  being  called  thereunto  by 
the/w?ftM^  €t  sirepitiis  of  tJie  taverns.  Whilst 
writing  on  the  subject  of  old  wakes  customs 
1  may  mention  one  I  never  heard  of  before 
last  summer  An  old  la<iy  was  my  informant 
She  said  when  she  was  a  child  all  the  houses 
in  Filev  threw  the  doors  wide  open  during 
the  wake,  and  anybody  might  enter  who 
chose.  Cakes  and  tea  were  supplied  to  all 
comers.  Suclj  indiscriminate  hospitality  could 
only  be  practised  at  small  places.  Was  it 
general  in  Yorkshire  villages  1 

B.  D.  MOSKLEY. 

llarBleTi). 

"Akyone,"  *'EvEuyoNK"  (O**"  8.  vii.  205).- 
These  ill-joined  words  have  boon  intruduced 
by  the  ignorance  of  modern  printers^  and  1 
pronounce  decidedly  for  a  repeal  of  the 
union,"  I.  Because  the  pronunciation  prompted 
by  their  form  is  "anyone,"  "everyone^'  to 
which  must  be  addecf  "so-mo-o-ne''  for  the 
still  more  unsightly  "someone."  2.  BecauBe 
in  such  combinations  the  particle  "one"  is 
not  on  all  fours  with  "body."  The  phrase 
'*  any  one,"  for  instance,  is  elliptical  for  "any 
one  of  us,  you,  or  them,''  according  to  the 
context,  which  is  not  the  case  witli  ** any- 
body." 3.  Because  **  uniformity  "—to  use  the 
typographical  term— cannot  be  observed  in 
all  the  combinations  with  "one."  Your  corre- 
spondent ignores  not  only  "some,"  as  already 
indicated,  but  the  particle  "  no."  We  write 
"  nobody,"  but  the  pen  revolts  against  "  no- 
one,"  Not  infrequently,  however,  "^veijr 
one*'  occurs  in  juxtaposition  with  "no  one*  : 
for  example,  "Though  known  to  everyone, 
no  one  believes  it"  With  what  consistency 
could  "everyone"  figure  here  by  the  side 
of  "no  one"?  An  objection  to  the  form — 
"  noone  "  based  on  vocal  collision  is  eauall^~ 
valid  against  "anyone/  "eveiTone,'  anci^B 
"someone."  F.  Adams. 

Your  correspondent  is  doubtless  right,  bu" 
he  is  of  course  aware  that  "  anybody  "  an 
"  everybody  "  wei*e  eacti  written  as  two  woi 
originally.    "Our  rude  forefathers  deemi 
them  two."  C  a  B, 

Roo8    Family  (9«»   S.   viL    im%  —  Jol    ^m 
Manners,    ninth    l*Iarl    and    first    Duke  of 

Rutland,  was  styled  Lord   Roos^  or  Ros, in 

lG7fJ.  The  barony  of  Ros  came  into  tPTI-Jiis 
family  by  the  marriage  of  Sir  Holier t  Mss^  an- 
ners,  Knt,,  of  Etal,  oo.  NorthumberhuiH  _  ^  ,  U) 
Eleanor,  eldest  sister  and  co-heir  of  Etlmu^^^no, 
Ijtyrd  lUis  of  Ham  lake,  Truabutv  and  Beb     ^^oir- 


ucim  aca  waice  is  as  oia  as  tne  leaUval  \\m\\.  \\£f(^  LUis  or  wamiaKe,  iruaout^  ann  nei^     ^uu. 
It  ^till  uuvvivm  in  many  pUeea  \  also  tl\etft  v'tVift  \3(Moti^  ^^aa^  ^^\.  <ai  the  ^mij^  by  th© 


9**  S.  VIL  April  13. 1901.]       NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


296 


i&rrtage  of  Elizabeth,  daughtor  and  heir  of 
dward,  third  Earl  of  lluthirid  j^nd  fifteenth 
ftmn  RooBi  to  Sir  WiUiam  Cecil  (Loi-d 
urlet^hj,  second  Earl  of  Exeter.  His 
ID,  WiUiam,  Ijonl  Eos,  diai  n.p.  in  1618» 
id  the  barony  reverted  to  Francis,  sixth 
art  of  Rutland,  who  contested  with  William 
Bcil  for  the  barony,  but,  not  succeeding  was 
©ated  by  patent  Lorrl  Roa  of  Hamlake. 
is  only  child  Katherine  married,  first,  George 
U Iters,  Duke  of  Buckingham ;  secondly, 
andal  Macdonell,  Earl  of  Antrim;  and  tho 
d  barony  of  Eos  devolved  upon  her,  and 
le  barony  of  Roa  of  Haralake  expired.  The 
rldom  of  Rutland  passed  to  his  brother 
eorge,  who  died  witnout  issue;  then  it  re- 
srted  to  hia  cousin  John,  father  of  the  above 
ihn.  A,  M.  will  see  that  he  had  no  right  to 
e  title  of  Lord  Ros,  I  cannot  find  in  any 
ray  works  on  the  subject  that  Lady  Anne, 
s  wife,  hail  another  cnild  beside  Frances, 
bo  died  7  February,  wm. 

JotiF  Radcuffe. 

BON-APAETK  EALL.voCa"^  S,  vi.  349  :  vii.  I93X 
About  two  years  ago  T  hearfl  'The  Isle  of 
.  Helena' sung  by  a  centenai^ian,  the  late 
r-  Timothy  Haye^^t,  of  Cardiff,  who  well  re- 
srabered  the  time  when  Britain  lived  in 
.ily  fear  (and  Ireland  in  daily  hope)  of  a 
iding  by  *'Boney party/'  Mr,  Haj^ea  shortly 
Iser wards  died,  aged  109  years.  1  knew  him 
til,  and  had  ascertained  liia  age  by  careful 
reatigation.  Johm  Hqbson  MArrnKWrt, 
fown  HiJl,  Cardiff. 

*Mun8Ik"  (B*'^  S.  vi.  428), —  I  have  held 
»r  a  reply  to  this  query,  in  the  hitherto 
in  hope  of  finding  a  mislaid  French  book 
[>i]t  cards  of  which  the  authorship  has 
3ped  my  memory.  My  notion,  offered  for 
at  it  is  worth,  m  that  the  word  is  a  vulgar 
ittish  corruption  of  "Monsieur."  The 
ee  chief  members  of  the  French  royal 
lily  were  "le  roi^  la  reinc,  Monsieur  — 
quote  the  beginning  of  a  sentence  in 
tauet'ii  oraison  fumebre  on  the  Duchesse 
^rlt^ns  —  and  the  lowest  of  the  three 
mrt  cards"  may  have  been  termed 
[onsieur"  in  jocular  allusion  to  this  trio, 
neceisarily  by  a  Frenchman  or  even  in 
,nce,  but  perhaps  in  Scotland. 

F.  Adams. 

'UBUC  MoDENTNa  (9**"  S.  vii*  150,  174).— 
s  Underiakeri'  Journal  for  31  January,  in  a 
rited  leading  article,  laments  the  change 
public  sentiment  such  as  D.  remarks  upon. 

Cmild  manm  of  the  undertakers  of   the   last ! 
fermtion  ktiow  what  we  caU  a  funeml  in  tfaeao 
m,  it  would  turn  them  in  their  very  gmvea^,**.* 


Item  after  item  has  been  abandoned r  Idea  aft«r 
idea  hn»  b^en  dn>]»p©d,  lainb  muflmiip  a  distinct  Iom 
to  our  hii«iiiieBii.  As  an  instance,  a  leading  under- 
t4Lker  in  the  Waist' End*  refornng  to  the  rceeat 
death  of  a  noble  lord,  eontidcd  to  ine :  *  Forty  yeara 
ago,*  bo  said  J  *I  Imricd  a  nseiriber  of  that  family » 
and  the  funeral  bill  eume  U>  1,250/.  Ten  years  later 
1  baried  another,  when  it  came  to  just  over  70W. 
Fifte*?n  yeara  ago  1  buried  a  third,  at  a  ami  of  MM. 
—hut  the  bill  for  this  one  diil  not  rcsach  75/.*  '* 

The  writer  then  pictures  a  funeral  of  the 
past^  and  proceeds  t— 

''The  linilertaUer  ffjrnierly;  took  charge  of  a  home 
immeflidtely  death  entertjd  it^  ibreshold.     In  that 
e^iho^ity  he  i|ra|^d  the  houae,  {iravide<l  fthruud  ami 
^rave  Glotbes,  as  weH  a^  mourninif  for  the  whole 
family.   He  arranged  a  niortuary  chamber,  and  pro- 
videcf  it  with  caniMestieks,  pall,  and  every  neceaaary 
aprmrteriance.  The  f unen*!  wais  a.  ]  la^^eant,  M  nte*  pre- 
ceded the  portiige ;  the  hearse  \va«  drawn  by  four*  aix, 
o  r  oigh t  horae?,  w  i t h  ou  t rid  erj)  and  I  M>5  ti  I  ion  s,    Eae  h 
horse  was  decorated  with  jiulendid  harneas,  plumea, 
and  *  vol  vet  A,*  whilst  the   tjody  wiwj  eiicaM^i  in  a 
shell,  case,  and  oak  cortin,  over  which  wm»  si»read  a 
handflonie  i.>alL     How  few  of  sueb   funeraU  have 
we  to-day  !...... Mutes,  outridern,  and  Tioatilionii  are 

tbingB  of  the  |»ast.  A  hear«e  drawn  by  more  than 
two  homea  in  becomini^  a  novelty.  For  plumes 
there  is  neither  eall  nor  market,  and  the  value  of 
horae  velvets,  pal  la,  and  the  like  will  1>e  appreciated 
when  it  is  mentioned  that  at  the  sale  of  tne  stock 
of  the  late  Mr.  Field,  the  eminent  undertaker^  at 
Aid  ridge's  during  the  past  months  the  hammer  fell 
on  live  iiairs  of  horfje  velvets  at  5^,  for  the  lot— 
whilst  four  excellent  | wills  only  realized  &«." 

la  it  to  he  wondered  at  that,  in  the  existing 
»tate  of  things,  so  touchiugly  pictunfl  in  the 
above  profcfmional  lament,  butlers  and  the 
like,  nowadaye^  sometimea  go  «hort  of  mourn- 
ing] Haeb?  Hems. 

Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

Detached  Sheet  (3*^  S.  vl  266 ;  9*^  S.  vii. 
11).— The  sheet  da^icribecl  exactly  corresponds 
to  that  in  our  copy  of  Littleton  s  curious  old 
dictionary.  The  edition  is  dated  1684.  The 
*DN,B.'  (xxxiii.  3fi6)  seems  to  be  in  error 
about  the  editions—"  1673,  IGIB,  1685,  1695, 
1723,  1735/'  Rose's  *Uio^r.  Diet.'  (ix.  292) 
KJvea  1B78  for  the  first  edition,  W,  CI  B,  .mys 
hin  is  the  fourth*  ITlfj.  Ours  (1^84)  ha«  an 
imprimatur  dated  1677.        E,  H.  Beombt. 

Univeraity  Libntry,  Melbounie. 

Dr.  JoiTNSOH  (9"'  S.  v^ii.  88,  176,  237),-^! 
fancy  Boa  well  was  wrong  in  equating  the 
English  Jokfison  with  the  Scottish  Jf/hmtou, 
Johnson  belongs  to  the  jmtronymic  class  of 
proper  names,  ancl  means  the  son  of  John, 
while  Johmtmi  belongs  to  the  local  class, 
and  originally  denoted  a  person  living 
in»  or  connected  with,  the  tiin  or  t&une  of 
John,  or  St.  John.  Johrwrn  could  not  becottva 
Johfulftn^  thoug\\  thft  Wltet  to\^-\^  ^.^.m^^w^ihS^^ 
be    wliittled    down   lo   t\\R    Ya\?K^V  Icrem. 


296 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [r8.viLAFitiLi3.i90L 


Readers  of  Stevenson^s  lett-er^  wilt  reraa ruber 
that  tliiji  was  the  view  which  that  di^- 
tingtiiwlKsd  writer  took  of  his  own  |jatroiiymic. 
At  finst  sight  S  to  veil  son  would  appear  to 
mean  merely  the  yon  of  Hteplieu,  out  the 
researt^ht^s  of  IL  L.  S.  brought  to  light  the 
f&ct  that  there  wei^  three  place^i  called 
StevenHon — one  in  CunninKham,  another  in 
Peebles,  and  a  third  in  Haddington— and 
that  one  of  the  earliest  forms  of  the  name 
wati  Hievintmim  C*Letters»'  new  ed.,  ii*  359, 
362)*  Notwithstanding  the  more  obvious 
etymology,  it  is  theretore  possible  that  in 
some  caises  Stei^^nmn  may  have  been  planed 
down  from  the  less  euphonious  Siewmt^n^ 
and  similarly  Johrtson  from  JohniUjii.  i  do 
not,  however,  think  that  the  greAt  lexico- 
grapher ever  itd opted  the  latter  torrn. 

Where  shall  I  find  the  origimd  text  of  a 
spurious  epitaph  commencing 
Readeri  have  a  care ; 
Tread  lightly  leit  you  rouae  &  iluniberinir  beiw-  * 

It  I'eadn  like  an  unauthorized  addition  to 
Goldsmith's  poem  *  Retaliation.'  And  why 
is  it  omitted  from    the  life    given    in  the 

A  Mu88ULMAir  Legekd  op  Job  (9*^  S,  vii. 
63,  190).— My  best  thanks  are  due  to  M&. 
Michael  Feheae.  whose  better  acquaintance 
with  Orient*!  suojecta  has  enabled  him  to 
remedy  imperfection  a  in  my  article.  The 
rods  of  Moses  and  Aaron  were  temporarily 
transformed  into  serpents,  a  feat  which ^  to  a 
certain  extent^  was  rivalled  by  the  Egyptian 
Horceret^t  though  the  latter,  I  understand, 
made  u^e  of  real  snakes  skilfully  manipulated. 
The  use  of  Kknm'et  was  literal  translation  and 
transliteration  from  the  Russian  original. 
Franlis  P,  Marchant. 

BrixtouHilL 

Malt  akd  Hop  SumiTiTUTEs  (9^'*  8.  viL 
150,  215). — The  existence  of  hop  substitutes  is 
proved  by  the  plant-names  ^*alehnof/*  **  ale- 
coat,"  ''  gill  ale,"  in  HalliwelL  The  '  H.KD.; 
».?!.  'Alehoof/  has  an  interesting  notice, 
showing  that  the  earlier  hei-hom  (in  Hal H well 
**  heihowp"  t>.,  hedge-hove)  wa-s  supplant^ 
bv  the  word  in  question.  Chambers's  *  Rook 
of  Days '  (ii.  399)  says  that  the  brewing  hop 
was  imjiortetl  from  the  Low  C3oun tries  and 
userl  for  brewing  as  early  as  1428, 

H,  P  L 

WlLUAM   MOREIS   AS  A    MaK    QY    BlTSlKKSS 

(9*^S.  vi,  406, 495  ;  vii.  54, 118, 1 72),- Perhaps  I 
did  not  miss  the  point  »o  entirely  in  W.  C  B.'s 
note,  for  tlw  inipres^sion  it  gave  me  wjis  that 


by  sandwiching  him  between  Dr.  Liddon'i 
sligliting  remark  about  the  man  with  the 
small  mind  and  the  "foolish  maii/^  This 
i oppression  is  confirmed  now  by  hiw  further 
observation  **  tliat  the  dean's  ragard  for  his 
dinner  made  him  anxious  to  believe  that  God 
did  not  regard  it." 

Now  as  to  the  dean's  questioa,  it  is 
&  question,  not  an  al*so]ute  statement, 
and,  I  think,  intended  to  exprete^  scorn 
for  shams.  St.  Paul,  in  a  similar  spirit, 
asks,  "Doth  God  take  care  for  oxeu?''  when 
pushing  his  argument  as  to  the  proper  pay- 
ment of  the  clergy.  As  well  say  he  was 
anxious  not  to  befieve  in  St.  Matthew  x.  29, 
30,  which  W.  C.  B,  quotes.  The  dean  had  a 
very  honest  regard  for  hia  dinner  ;  yet  he 
managed  to  do  without  it  on  fast  days  till 
seven,  instead  of  two,  not  eating  anything 
from  breakfast  till  that  hour  (see  Letter 
Ixxxii.,  18  Februaryi  1710]  also  'Journal  to 
Stella,'  3t)  March,  1710).  If  be  had  had  any- 
thing "  in  between  "  we  should  certainly  have 
heard  of  it  He  says  (Letter  lix.,  5  March, 
1711)  he  hated  Lent,  "difierent  diet«,"  and 
"herb  porridge";  but  the  chief  reason, appa- 
rently, was  because  people  "only  put  on 
religion  for  seven  weeks,  *  Besidfes,  people 
do  not  tri^uble  to  hate  diets  of  which  they  do 
not  partake.  He  ate  the  "  raw  carps "  (Ash 
Wednesday  J  18  February,  1712),  though,  no 
doubt,  he  might  have  nad  turkey,  lise  hia 
host.  Dr,  Swift  surely  deserves  better  thtngi 
than  a  sneer  from  a  Churoh  of  England  miDr 

Ibagitk. 

Chisel  Marks  {9***  S,  vii,  149,  233),— I  do 
remember  my  old  friend  the  Rev.  John  Wood- 
ham  Dunn,  a  good  antiquary,  who  was  vic*r 
of  Wark worth,  in  Northumberland,  showing 
me  these  masons'  marks  at  Wark  worth  Castle^ 
and  telling  me  that  similar  ones  were  to  ^ 
men  at  Alnwick  and  Duns  tan  borough  ca^tl^ 
a  little  further  north.  He  inferred  tram  ihU 
that  they  must  have  been  built  by  the  «a«»® 
craft.    He  was  a  noted  FrT^mason. 

John  Pick  ford,  M.A. 

N6wlM>urne  Rectory,  Woodbridge* 

Yai^ishinc;  London  :  Christ's  HoeFHAi 
(9'*^  S,  vii.  ^5).^I  do  not  unden^tend  m 
moanH  that  are  given  out  at  tlie  disapi^' 
ance  of  this  modern  churchwarden  Go*luc 
building.  According  to  *  The  Pictorial  HwWj 
book  of  London/  Bohn»  1854,  p.  717,  it  i«  f 
Imd,  and  the  hall  which  in  seen  froJi>  t"^ 
street  was  built  in  1825,      RALPn  Tuoha^^ 

Smrs  o¥  War  oh  Land  (9""  S*  vii  W*^ 
235).^ In  907  Oleg,  Lonl  of  Kiev,  dewjendi^ 


Iw  purpan^ly  treated  the  great  dean  unfaitV^  \^^  Y^vm^x  ^\il\  a  ^otilla  of  two  thcaswB' 


«*  8.  vn.  apml  13. 19010     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


297 


boatg  and  advanced  towards  Byzantium. 
Accunling  t-o  t\m  ehroniclen  of  that  timo  he 
had  wheels  pat  utider  hi**  vesseU,  tf^eir  H&ih 
wer^  utifurled,  and,  thu^s  impelled  by  the 
wiud,  they  were  enabled  to  arrive  overland 
at  their  deati nation.  The  Gi*eek  eiiij>eror 
wa^  m  aatoniMhed  axid  olarnied  at  the  sight 
that  he  haatetieil  U>  make  peace  immediately. 

T,    P,   AHMgTRONG. 

"QcroT  UNauAB  calles,  tot  HOMmES 
VALES ''  (7"»  a  iii.  129  j  8^^^  8.  iii  66).— I  have 
diacovered  the  Turkii*h  equivalent  of  this 
proverb  in  a  small  aeventeenth-centtiry  book 
entitled  "Colloquia  FamiliariaTurcico^Latina, 
per  Jacobum  Nagy  de  Harsany  (Berlin,  1672), 

00  the  ven*o  of  the  title-page.  As  *  N.  &  Q.' 
does  not  print  any  thing  in  Oriental  characters, 

1  mast  omit  the  TurTcish  onginal  and  con- 
tent myself  with  giving  Nagy  a  Latin  trans- 
lation of  it,  which  IS  headed  "  Prov,  turcicumj'* 
and  i«  given  thus:  *^(Juantum  quia  lin- 
^arum  noverit,  tot  hominum  vices  sustinet." 

L.  L.  K. 
Ipplipkn,  m,  Devon  (9^*^  S.  vi.  409  ;  vii.  50, 
113,  217>— I  wonder  whether  A,  H.  writes 
'^all  in  fun/'  At  the  third  reference  I 
called  attention  to  Dh,  Nkubauer*s  sportive 
ea.«?ay8  in  Anglo -Hebrew  etymology,  which 
to  my  humble  intelligence  seemed  fully  an 
valoaole  as  those  of  Mr.  Thorpe  ■  alao  to  the 
absurd  blunder  made  by  Truth  in  taking 
them  seriouijly.  And  now  comes  A.  H,  and 
tells  me  with  all  gravity  that  I  am  wrong  in 
taking  them  seriously.  Can  any  one  except 
A*  H,  have  so  rearl  me  upside  down  I  Verily, 
there  is  but  one  A.  H*  C.  B.  Mount. 

"So  LOXG  "  (9"'  S.  vii.  129,  233).— A  di.scua- 
%ion  arose  over  this  phrase  in  189B,  when  it 
wai*  used  by  Mr-  Tree  in  *  Ragged  Ri>bin  '  at 
Her  Majesty^H  Theatre-  I  do  not  think  that 
it  ia  *' peculiarly  a  sailor*s  phrase/'  When  I  was 
at  school,  nearly  thirty  years  agOj  it  was  a 
conimon  expression,  and  we  almost  invariably 
8aid  **So  long"  when  we  otherwise  should 
have  siaifl  "ilu  retmrJ^  S.  J,  A.  F, 

The  Last  Male  Descendastt  of  Daniel 
Defoe  (9**»  S.  viL  86,  177).  — The  distinc^ 
tioD  of  being  the  last  (authenticated)  descend- 
ant in  the  male  line  of  Daniel  Defoe  belongs 
to  the  only  son  of  the  late  Mr.  James  W. 
Defoe,  who^e  deatli  w^as  chronicled  ante^ 
p.  BO.  Thi!4  youth,  Daniel  by  name,  was 
a  sailor  by  profe^ion,  and  predeeca^d  his 
father  in  1896  at  San  Francisco,  at  the  age 
of  twenty -two, 

1  am  indebted  for  this  information  to  Mr. 
Wright,  whoise  researches  in  connexion  with 
the  prepamtioii  of  hiii  monumental  'life  of 


Defoe'  brought  him  into  intimate  relation 
with  his  descendants,  this  young  man  among 
them,  from  whom  he  received  many  letters. 
In  his  dainty  little  volume  entitled  *The 
Acid  [I]  Sisters,  and  other  Poems/  published 
in  1B97,  Mr.  Wright  has  com  mem  or  at^  his 
young  friend's  untimely  fleath  in  some  verses 
under  the  heading  *Tlie  TwoDcfoes.'  1  have 
somewhere  secreted,  with  an  ingenuity  that 
ImMes  all  my  attempts  to  recover  it,  a  cutting 
(probably  from  an  ejirly  number  of  the 
SA'etek)  containing  notices  of  -Tames  Defoe 
and  his  son,  with  portraits  of  both,  the  latter, 
if  memory  serves  me,  attired  as  a  Blue-coat 
scholar 

A.  H.  can  scarcely  have  seen  Mr.  Wright^a 
*  Life  of  Deft:)e,^  the  closing  section  of  which 
contains  copious  particulai-s  of  Defoe's  de- 
scendants and  a  pedigree  of  the  Foe  family 
from  1631  to  1894,  which  in  many  points  is  at 
variance  with  the  statements  of  JL  H.  For 
example,  according  to  Mr,  Wright  it  was 
Norton,  the  novelist*s  younger  son,  who  emi- 
grated to  America,  ana  not  Daniel,  his  elder 
son,  as  A.  H,  asserts.  Again,  the  Samuel 
Defoe  who  died  in  1783  (according  to  Wright) 
or  in  1782  (according  to  A.  H.)  was  the  son  of 
Daniel,  and  not  of  his  brother  Norton,  as 
alleged  by  A,  H. 

Descendants  of  Defoe  through  the  marriage 
of  his  youngest  daughter  Sophia  with  Henry 
Baker,  an  eminent  man  ot  science  (whose 
works  on  microscopy  have  still  authority  and 
value),  survive  in  the  persons  of  the  Kev. 
Henry  Defoe  Baker,  rector  of  Thruxton, 
Hants,  and  his  cousin  the  Rev,  William  Defoe 
Baker,  lector  of  Wei  ton,  Lincolnshire, 

In  making  use  of  the  word  ^*  authenticated  " 
at  the  commencement  of  this  reply  I  spoke 
advisedly,  because  Mr.  W*right  informs  us 
that  three  (out  of  the  seventeen)  children  of 
the  novelist's  younger  son  Norton,  who  emi- 
grated to  Carolina,  were  living  in  1737* 
"'  Their  descendants,"  he  says,  "  are  scattered 
about  the  earth.  One  cropped  up  in  a  Mel- 
bourne i>oat  office  a  year  or  two  back,  but 
nothing  could  be  got  out  of  him  except  that 
he  was  descended  from  the  gi'eat  Daniel." 
Here  is  a  promising  field  for  the  exploitation 
of  enterprising  Antipodeans, 

Charles  Kino. 
Torquay. 

I  hope  Mk,  HiBtMME  is  incorrect  in 
stating  that  Defoe's  last  descendant  is 
dead.  Between  1880  and  18843  1  was  in 
Herts,  near  Bishop's  Stortford,  and  the 
De  Foes  were  then  living  in  Thorlny, 
I  inti^rewted  myself  in  a  UuW  V^>j  ^W^,  \\ 
alive,  must  h%  ^\m.\*  e^\?^W«bia^  ^w\  ^%s^  m^ 


298 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9**  s.  vil  Ama  is.  iwi. 


utmost  to  Met  him   into  Christ's  Hospital    The  teatator^s  cousin  Robert,  son  of    Joho 


De^n   Vttugimn,   alas  ! 


juHt    given   his 
have  given  it 


had  j 
nomination  away,  or  he  would 
to  litfcle  i  Je  Fiwi.  Between  those  dati^s  (18B0-66) 
I  attenili'tj  a  missionary  meeting  in  Bishop's 
Stortford  ;  in  front  of  me  young  De  Foe  sat, 
Bounfi  ajileen.  However,  I  did  not  rouse  him, 
1  intereHtefl  Mr.  Gladstone  for  the  De  Foes, 
for  they  were  in  bad  circuinstance*i,  and  Her 
ffra*noi3.H  Majesty  the  late  Queen  sent  them  a 
hantlHome  pecuniary  present  by  hi«  at!  vice* 
I  exerted  myself  in  the  De  Foes'  behalf  w^ith 
the  concurrents?  of  the  late  vicar  or  rector  of 
Thorley,  Mr,  Vandetmeulen,  Perhaps  some 
Herts  student  of  *N.  ife  Q.'  will  .set  to  work 
and  find  if  the  report  is  true  that  the  la^it 
descendant  of  Daniel  Defoe  has  joined  the 
majority,  M.A,OxoN, 

There  is  no  parish  nametl  Elton  in  Is^orth- 
aniptonshire.  The  village  in  that  county 
where  Daniel  Defoe's  gruiKlfivther  JameH  Foe 
lived  is  Etton.  Therein  an  Elton  in  Hunting- 
'  donshire,  alwiut  eight  miles  from  Peter- 
borough, and  nearly  all  accoantn  of  the 
family  (until  Mr,  Thomas  Wright^s  *  Life  of 
Dante!  Defoe*)  liave  confuted  this  with  the 
much  smaller  village  of  Etton,  where  the  Foes 
resided.  The  name  still  occur^j  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood. In  this  parish,  which  adjoins 
Etton,  there  is  an  olil  couple  named  Foe. 
W,  D»  Sweeting. 

Mnxcy,  Mnrkot  Deeping. 

Mils,  Arbuthnot  (9^'*  S,  vii,  187,  231).— 
Probably  Harriet,  dau,  of  Hon.  Henry  Fane 
ami  wife  of  Higlit  Hon,  Charles  Arbuthnot, 
She  died  in  1R34.  Ther^  is  a  beautiful  en- 
graved portrait  of  her  from  a  picture  by  Sir 
Thomas  t,awrenee,         Qbrald  Ponsonby* 

BRAsENogE  College,  Oxford  (9^  S,  vi.  509  ^ 
vii.  92,  i:)7,  23r)),— William  Smith,  Bishop  of 
Lincoln  at  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  century, 
belonged,  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  to  a  Smith 
family  inhabiting  the  parishes  just  north  of 
the  city  of  Lincohi,  especially  Brattleby. 
South  Carlton,  and  Welton,  I  have  tracefl 
them  by  the  Subsidy  Lists  back  to  the 
beginning  of  the  fourteenth  centurj^  when 
they  were  styled  ''  Faber,"  and  were,  1  pre- 
sume, the  hereditary  smiths  of  the  manors. 
Probably  their  ancestors  had  been  for  count- 
ies** ijenemtions  the  witch-doctors  of  the 
eoun  try -side.  At  the  beginning  of  the  seven- 
teenth century  these  Smiths  were  still 
wealthy  and  powerful,  Richard  Smith,  M,D., 
of  Welton,  purchased  the  manor  of  Potter 
Hanworth,  and  in  1602  devised  it  for  the 
endowment  ofn  free  school  at  Lincoln,    Tfiis 


Smith,  was  a  proctor  of  the  Ecclesiastical 
Court  of  Lincoln,  Bv  his  wife  Anne  he  had 
issue  Faith,  marriecJ  to  Anthony  Monsoji, 
Eso,  ;  Mary»  to  William  Simcotts,  gent.; 
and  Jane,  tho  wife  of  Brian  Smith,  gent. 
(R,0,,  Proceedings  of  Charity  Commissioners, 
HilO).  Of  the  South  Carlton  stock  were  my 
two  great-greiit- uncles  Smith,  one  of  whom 
fought  at  Waterloo  and  the  otlier  at  Trafal- 

far.  I  l>elieve  this  family  is  extinct  now. 
'heir  arms  are :  Argent,  a  fess  dancettee 
Ixstween  three  ro*4es  (or  cinquefoils),  pierced 
gules.  John  Hobson  Matthews, 

Town  HoII,  Cardiff. 

"Smous"  (9^**  S,  vi,  409,  493;  vii*  131),- 
It  should  perhaps  be  noted  that  mumu 
used  to  be  a  common  word  in  South  Africa, 
no  doubt  emanating  from  Holland,  But 
while  ID  modern  Dutch  it  may  be  used  as 
"a  nickname  for  a  Jew,"  and  secondly  "lo 
indicate  a  swindler,"  in  South  Africa  it  meant 
"a  glorified  pecilar,''  a  sort  of  itinerant 
merchant,  who  was  generally  the  country 
commercial  traveller  of  storekeeijers  lixed  in 
the  towns.  No  doubt  "Mr,  Smouse''  knew 
how  to  bargain,  and  x>erhaps  cheat  a  little, 
and  therefore  the  connexion  between  the 
different  meanings  assigned  to  him  in  Holland 
and  South  Africa  shows  them  to  be  not  so 
widely  divergent.  P^ailways  and  the  general 
ofKsning  up  of  the  country  have  seriounl? 
crippled  hini,  and  in  all  probability  ho  will 
die  a  natural  death. 

HoLCOMBK   IKGLESY. 

Authors  of  Qdotations  Wantko  (9**"  S. 
V.  317).— 

They  eat  fixxA  drink  and  scheme  and  i>lod, 

The^  g^  to  uhurch  on  8iinda^ ; 
And  many  are  afraid  of  iMid^ 
And  more  of  Mrs,  Grundy, 
These  lines  are  from    Lonkor'a  *  London   hjn< 
'  The  Jester*!!  Plea,*  G.  A.  M 


Jlliiallxtifoiii. 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  kr. 

A  Nf^tp  Emfiitth  fHetmnarff  on  Iliittoriaii  Prinrii 
Kthted  by  Dr.  *lftiiie«  A.  H.  Murray.— /,  — J 
By  Henry  Bradloy,  Hon,  M.A,     (Oxforih  Cki 
don  Preaa.) 
With  the  new  quarterly  part  of  thi»  £^^ 
tion&ry  beglni  a  new  volume,  the  »i7cth.    The  ' 
duetory  note  to  tbis  reports  with  the  **  prof* 
reisret'^  the  death,  on   1   Feb.,   lUOl,  of  Dr, 
eaward  Hall,  who  had  "  rendered  iiiirfrluable 


^6 


in  all  the  portions  hitherto  puhlifthed  of  tkii^     ^' 
tionary,"    By  what  is  mentioned  as  a  notewc^*^ 
.  I  coind deuce,  "  the  latest  nage  whkh  I'ontaif*- **  ^J 

dispaaition  iva^  the  cau^  of  a  family  \&w%ml.Wdd\\:\<cnA  \a  \\wX  ^witH  which  the  ^Sec^tton  ^^m^dt, 


.«..iwi.i     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


299 


o  Dr.  Fitsedward  Hall's  death  we  have  previously 

sf erred.    The  section,  which  contains  in  all  2,100 

orda,  with  7;I776  illustrative  quotations,  supplies 

)w  words  which  require  to  be  treated  on  an  ezten- 

ive  scale.    The  group  which  occupies  the  greatest 

mount  of  space  is  land,  substantive  and  verb,  with 

lieir  compounds  and  derivatives.    These  take  up 

ine  and  a  half  paf^es.    Lady  and  the  related  words 

11  four  paices.    Attention  is  drawn  to  the  fact  that 

lie  pseudo-etymological  statements  concerning  lad 

re  refuted,  though  the  conjecture  offered  in  their 

laoe  is  owned  to  be  doubtful.    We  shall  have  to 

rait  to  see  what  light,  if  anjr,  is  thrown  by  lass. 

Ve  do  not  trace  the  conjunction  before  1562,  when 

re  have  "  Lymmer  lawdis  and  litle  lassis."    The 

lain  constituent  elements  in  the  English  vocabularv 

re  all  represented  in  the  present  section,  though 

3  number  the  words  of  Greek  and  Latin  derivation 

treponderate.  For  this  statement  we  were  scarcelv 

trepared.     Short  words,  such  as  lace,  lack,  lad, 

ide,  lag,  kur,  lank,  lap,  appear  more  frequent  than 

D  recent  parts.     In  regard  of  many  of  these  facts 

tot  accessible  in   other  dictionaries   are  for  the 

irst  time  given.    A  curious  recent  revival  is  the 

eneral  application   of   the   term   lackland^  first 

mployed  as  an  equivalent   of   sine  terra  in  the 

ase  of   King  John.     Greene,  in   1504,  spoke  of 

tubbing  a  man  "Sir  John  lackland."     Within  a 

onple  of  years  Cardinal  Vaughan  has  spoken  of 

'a   lackland    and    beggared    peer."     A    similar 

ihraae,  **  Sir  John  lacklatin,"  is  earlier  in  use.    No 

mployment    of    larkluslrt    earUer    than    Shake- 

peare  has  been  traced.     Under  ladeti,  past  par- 

idjDle,   we   should  like   to   have   seen   Shelley's 

*  With  white  fire  laden."    In  most  cases  in  which 

.  word  is  used  with  a  literarv  association  that 

lakes  it  memorable  we  would,  have  the  phrase 

iven.    For  scientific  purposes  the  use  may  not  be 

Kessary,  but  science,  though  perhaps  almost  all, 

not  quite  all.    We  should  have  thought  la'di-da 

rlier  in  emplo]rment  than  1883,  but  are  probably 

ong.     We  cannot  find  space  for  the  history  of 

ly,  which,  however,  is  interesting  and  striking. 

ve  we   or  have  we  not  known  "lady  of  the 

-e  "  as  a  substitute  for  *'  lady  of  the  lake  "  ?    In- 

ices  of  combinations  such  as  lady-smock,  lady's 

u  applied  to  flowers  are  numerous.    Lager  beer 

IS  to  be  first  mentioned  in  1853.    LaJcists,  as 

ied  to  the  Lake  poets,  comes  into  use  in  1822. 

y  highly   interesting   illustrations   are   given 

r  lanunl,  lamtntcUicn,    Late  lamented,  now  in 

ent  use.  is  first  used  by  Le  Fanu  in  1885. 

a=a  fabulous  monster,  a  witch,  goes  back  to 

n  the  form  lamya,    A  capital  account  is  given 

vce,  a  word  the  Iiatin  source  of  which,  accord- 

Varro,  was  from  Spain.    We  might  go  on 

Illustrations  or  instances  of  such,  but  can- 

■etend  to  extract  the  contents  of   a  page, 

ne  a  part.    So  worthy  of  study  is  the  work 

e   can  but  repeat  a  wish,  unrealizable  of 

that  we  could  possess  the  parte  in  a  ix)rtable 

at  would  enable  us  to  carry  them  with  us  on 

>n8.     Was  it  not  Dr.  Johnson  who  chose  an 

tic  as  the  proper  companion  for  a  journey  ? 

of  Olii'er  Cromiijell,  16U'1^58.     Collected 
ited  by  Charles  L.  Stainer.    (Frowde.) 
xmie    this   collection   most  gladly.     Mr. 
18  produced  a  work  which  has  long  been 
reuuired.     Of  lives  of  the  Protector  we 

n  late  dajrs  far  more  than  were  required ; 

er  his  letters  nor  his  speeches  have 


received  the  attention  which  is  due  to  them. 
We  need  not  say  that  we  do  not  forget  Carlyle's 
memorable  work.  It  is  a  something  which  can 
never  be  displaced  or  become  obsolete.  Regarded, 
however,  as  a  collection  of  documents,  it  is  in- 
complete; and  the  editing,  though  wonderful  in 
its  way,  is  hardly  of  a  kind  to  meet  any  of  the 
requirements  of  modem  historical  scholarship.  It 
is  tor  the  student,  not  for  the  lover  of  picturesque 
diction,  that  Mr.  Stainer  has  laboured,  and  he  has 
done  his  work  in  a  most  satisfactory  manner.  So 
far,  indeed,  as  we  are  able  to  test  him,  he  has 
left  out  very  little  of  importance.  Those  who  have 
not  worked  among  the  records  of  the  tiine,  printed 
as  well  as  manuscript,  can  form  but  a  faint  notion 
of  how  exasperatingly  Cromwell's  speeches  have 
been  reporteo.  Sometimes  the  sense  is  so  confused 
by  redundancy  or  omission  that  it  is  next  to  im- 
possible as  the  words  stand  to  make  out  what  was 
the  meaning  the  speaker  intended  to  convey:  at 
times  the  reeider,  if  not  very  careful,  is  not  unlikely 
to  come  to  the  conclusion  that  Oliver  said  abso- 
lutely the  reverse  of  what  was  in  his  mind.  The 
editor  has  done  his  best  to  remedy  this  confusion, 
and  has  in  a  great  degree  succeeded,  though  we 
mav  feel  assured  that  we  shall  never  recover  the 
spoken  words  absolutely  as  they  fell  on  the  ears  of 
tnose  who  were  present  at  their  deliverv.  A  great 
move  in  that  direction  has,  however,  been  made ; 
and  as  every  word  that  has  been  added  to  the 
text  as  it  has  come  down  to  us  has  been  enclosed 
in  brackets,  the  reader  can  never  be  misled  by 
taking  a  conjecture  of  the  editor  for  the  orijB^nal 
text.  In  most  oases  we  hold  that  the  practice  of 
reducing  the  spelling  of  other  days  to  tne  modem 
standard  should  be  field  in  the  deepest  reprobation, 
but  in  this  instance  Mr.  Stainer  nas  acted  wisely 
in  doing  so.  No  good  end  could  have  been  served  by 
preserving  the  original  spelling,  which  is^  of  course, 
not  the  Protector's  own,  butonly  the  humed  scribble 
of  the  reporters.  We  feel  that  the  editor  has  been 
somewhat  too  concise  in  the  introductions  he  gives 
to  the  speeches  and  the  notes  at  the  end  ox  the 
volume ;  but  in  a  book  of  this  kind,  if  it  be  a  fault, 
it  is  an  errer  in  the  right  direction.  A  little  more 
might  have  been  done,  with  profit  to  the  reader,  in 
the  way  of  identifying  some  of  the  more  obscure 
persons  with  whom  we  are  incidentally  brought  in 
contact.  Who,  for  example,  was  the  Major  Tulida 
who  was  present  and  spoke  at  the  convention  of 
Saffron  Walden,  and  complained  of  certain  of 
Oliver's  criticisms  ?  It  is  a  strange  name.  Is  any- 
thing further  known  of  him  ?  He  is  quite  obscure 
to  us,  unless  he  was  the  same  person  as  the 
Alexander  Tulidaffe  who  was  an  ensign  in  Lord 
Robartes's  regiment  at  the  beginning  of  the  war ;  if 
so,  perhaps  he  may  have  been  a  Comishman.  The 
speeches  on  the  whole  give  the  impression  of  mild- 
ness, circumspection,  and  an  earnest  craving  after 
conciliation  which  the  great  soldier's  lightning-like 
activity  on  the  field  oi  battle  would  not  have  led 
us  to  look  for.  That  the  speeches  show  great 
concentration  of  thought  and  intellectual  power  no 
one  will  call  in  question,  but  not  many  will  follow 
Mr.  Stainer,  we  think,  in  regarding  the  Protector 
as  **  the  greatest  orator  of  his  time."  This  collec- 
tion does  not  throw  much  light  on  what  Oliver's 
opinions  were  on  the  subject  of  religious  toleration, 
but  those  who  read  between  the  lines  will  probably 
come  to  the  conclusion  that,  though  never  distinctly 
formulated— perhaps  not  «vq\\  v[x  >d^^  qhih  mvoL^^-^ 
they  were  in  advanofa  ol   \iti<&  X}^^^:^   ^V  \o& 


300 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9»8.vn.APBiLi8,u)M. 


time*  We  do  not  believe  he  would  wiUingly  have 
tnolofited  Upuy  ono  fur  the  teniijeriite  expre^lon  of 
fttiy  opinion  whatever  which  he  did  not  re£a.rd  as 
dangerous  to  the  iSbate,  but  it  would  bo  futile  to 
clAim  for  him  the  reasoned  conolu^iotTB  which 
RoKer  Williams  and  Arohbiahop  Leigh  ton  have 
formulated. 

Charity  William  Ferfiinami,  Duke  qf  Bruwswicki 
173»-IS06.  By  Lord  Edmond  Fit^nmuiico.  (Long-  . 
mauft  t  O.) 
At  the  advice  of  Lord  RoBebery  and  Sir  George  I 
Trevclyan,  Lord  Edmund  Fitzmaarlce  has  reisQuld 
iji  booK  form  two  artides  on  the  f&moua  and  unfor- 
tunate Duke  of  Brunswick  contributed  in  ISSft^ 
to  the  Edinhurtjh  7?>f'Jtir,  The  work  thus  oou- 
■tituted  forma  the  best  record  we  poeiiess  concern- 
ing oue  of  the  moit  enlightened  of  potentates 
and  one  of  the  brav««t  ttiid  most  unfortunate  of 
commanders.  Rarely^  indeed,  has  a  contr&at  b&cn 
more  striking  than  tliat  between  the  outset  and 
the  close  of  the  life  of  the  Duke  of  Brunswiek 
been  furniahed  to  the  world.  Nephew  and  favourite 
pupil  of  Frederick  the  Ureat,  bo  won  military  dis- 
tinctioTi  while  atill  little  nmre  than  a  boy  in  the 
Keven  Years'  War,  and  woa  regarded  an  a  spoilt 
child  of  fortmio.  Commandingt  after  the  French 
Hevolutiot)^  the  allied  Austrian  and  Prussian 
armies,  he  fought  with  some  success  against  the 
French  Republican  command cnst  only  to  loae  his 
repntation  and  hia  life  when  in  J 806,  in  command 
of  the  Prussian  forces,  he  confronted  Napoleon 
at  Jena.  Of  this  career  Lord  Edmond  gives 
an  interesting  and  fairly  stimulating  account» 
laying  the  blame  of  failure  partly  u]>on  w*ant 
of  cAfia^^ity  on  the  {mrt  of  the  duke  to  matke  up 
his  mind,  i>artly  upon  the  mutual  jealousies  of 
Prussia  ruia  Austriat  ^^^  Partly  again  upon  the 
inlerference  with  his  plans  from  BerUn,  due  in 
a  great  meaaure  to  the  niisreprcsentalions  of  the 
^mi^r^.  These  causes  were  all  contributory  to  the 
breakdown  of  hi«  schemes  in  1792^S.  When,  how- 
ever, under  a  sense  of  duty,  he  took  the  command 
in  IS06  of  the  Prusaian  troops,  and  opposed  his  star 
to  that,  then  at  ita  zenith,  of  Kapoleonj  he  was  too 
old.  Lamartine,  and  after  him  M.  Louis  Blanc, 
exa£gerat«  into  an  offer^  by  the  oonBtttutional  party 
in  France,  of  the  throne  of  that  country  the  advances 
made  to  the  dake  by  Custiue.  That  the  Duke  of 
Brunswick  won  the  warm  admiration  of  many  of 
the  philosophical  French  Radicaia  is  true.  To  a 
2!«al  for  reform,  however,  the  duke,  like  his  uncle 
and  Voltaire,  added,  on  is  ahown,  "  &  profound 
contempt  for  the  vile  multitude  and  for  the  iter- 
ance of  the  mob."  This  opum:ulc  is  aersriceabte  and 
welcome.  It  is  illustrated  by  two  portraits  of  its 
hero,  one  showing  him  in  1777  and  the  other  near 
the  close  of  his  life,  and  by  a  coloured  map  of 
Central  Europe  in  1736. 

It  is  with  the  deepest  regret  we  record  the  death 
of  Mr,  George  Murray  8mith.    We  had  rec^ved 

Ruehcbeering  accounts  of  his  improvement  in  health 
that  we  had  hoped  that  aU  danger  was  past — 
indeed,  he  had  sufficiently  recovered  to  be  removed 
fr^m  Park  Ljine— but  he  sank  rapidly,  and  died  at 


for  which  he  had  a  natural  taste.  Mr.  Smith,  in  hla 
interesting  reminifcenoeB  which  have  just  been 
pubUahed  iu  the  Corjihifl,  and  recently  noticed  in 
'  N,  A.  Q.,'  gives  a  sketch  of  the  rise  and  progress 
of  his  firm  and  of  the  founding  of  that  maga;dQe. 
It  will  be  alao  remembered  that  in  1S65  he 
founded  the  Pafi  Maff  Oa-^eitef  written  **by 
gentlemen  for  gentlemen."  It  was  in  18S2 
he  conceived  the  jiatriotic  idea  of  publishing  a 
'Dictionary  of  National  Biography.^  With  this 
Atu]>endous  undertaking  hia  name  must  be  for 
ever  identified,  and  to  him  the  British  nation 
owes  a  debt  of  gratitude  which  now,  alas  !  can 
never  be  repaid.  Mr.  8mith*B  death  will  be  keenly 
felt  by  bis  friends  and  all  who  had  buainess  trajis 
actions  with  him.  He  was  generosity  itself  and 
full  of  kindlirieas.  With  him  liaa  poasGd  away  the 
last  of  the  founders  of  the  larjfe  publishing  houses 
of  the  Victorian  era. 

W.  C,  B.  writes  L  "  On  1  Auril  died  at  DoncasUr 
John  %koa,  M.D.Edin.^  aged  eighty-four,  probably 
the  oldest  contributor  to  '  N.  &  Q./  (nee  9**  8.  v, 
89).  He  was  a  pioneer  in  the  work  of  copying 
pariab  registers,  and  of  searching  in  wiU  office*  and 
the  like.  His  knowledge  of  Yorkshire  families  w*a 
extensive  and  minute,  and  out  of  hia  stores  of  notes 
he  gave  freely  to  all  applicants,  Tiitt  number  of 
local  hiatorians  and  autiquaries  who  pmflt^  by  hij 
help,  material  and  pecuniary,  is  pMt  Icoowiti^  He 
delighted  to  aid  promising  young  men  in  obtainiog 
better  eduoation,  but  he  was  of  a  retiring  dis* 
|»oaition,  and  his  many  acta  of  generosity  were 
unostentatiouij.  He  l>elonged  to  a  yeoman  family 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  Barnsky,  but  the  bulk  el 
his  life  was  spent  in  Ltoncaater,  where  he  pracUaed 
for  many  years  aa  a  physician.  He  was  F .RCLF. 
of  London,  and  for  aome  time  F.!:>.A.,  and  a  magt»* 
trate  for  the  borough  of  Don  easier.  He  was  ua- 
married.  The  writer  of  these  lines,  who  know  him 
intimately  for  nearly  thirty-two  /ears,  haa  a  meiss- 
cholv  satisfaction  in  makmg  this  memorial  of  hiiii 
in  tne  i»ages  of  *  N.  &  Q.,'  which  he  read  witi 
interest  to  the  last.'* 


Wey bridge  on  Haturday  tai^t  at  the  age  of  seventy 

The  firm  of  Smith  A,  Elder  wa?i  founded  by 

hiB  father.  It  was  chieUy  aii  Eivnt  Indian  agency  with 


A  gm&U  nublisbing  business  attached.  On  hia  father's^ 
deAth  the  whole  devolved  upon  him,  aud   he  aet  1  i 
ta  truric  mt  omoe  to  develops  la#  publkUiag  fK)CliQii,\ 


We  munt  eaU  special  aUenihn  to  Uu  f^UeKOf 
noiicea  .'— 

To  secure  insertion  of  oommunJcationa  aaft^ 
spondents  muat  observe  the  following  rules.  IM 
each  note,  <]uery,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  aopsratt 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  Signature  of  the  wTiter  iod 
such  aadresa  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  anff^ 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  prsvi^ 
entries  in  the  paper,  contribntora  are  reqnesEsd  bi 

Kut  in  porentneaes,  immediately  after  the  si><^ 
eading,  the  aeriea,  volume,  itnd  |iage  or  ptgpi  ** 
which  they  refer.  Corre*ii>ondenu  who  «P«* 
queries  are  requested  to  iioad  the  second  t:^' 
munication  ^*  Duplicate.^' 

PALAMKUE^.-*The  mistake  you  mention  is  iaF^ 
manuscript. 

CottKiuKNUA.  —  P.    253,   coL  2,    IL    IS,   IS,  f^ 
**  eoroedores  "  read  rommones  ;  p,  273^  cot  It  l» 
for  **  Castilian  "  road  P&rluffnem, 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  d«oline  t<*  f^'ni  ^ 
communications  which,  for  any  reasv^Ui  w^.^  ^^ 
pmV\  vkd\A  Uua  rule  wd  uau  iB*ke  m>  «j;ot!^  ^vu.  -^ 


9»&vilapwl18,i9oi.i     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


Tht  A  THKNAiUMfor  April  6  eontattu  ArUcUi  on 

TOt'JUNO  la  BAKT  AStQLlA.. 

Tto  GORDON  HIOHLAMUSBS. 

■ISTUKY  Of  COLONIZATION. 

SHAJMPHAKB  OBNBALOOY. 

9CX1TTMH  HISTORY. 

MBW  NOVKLS  :-lUrtew  •!  Madle ;  The  FrobUher* ;  Bban  UoMea  ; 
BallMt  I  The  Royal  Uaton ;  The  Balvattoa  Seeker*  -,  A.  Soldier  for 
a  Day. 

LABOUR  aad  STATISTICS. 

MODERN  THEOLOGY. 

OCR  UBKARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

NEWLY  DISOOVBREO  DOCUMENTS  Of    the  ELIZABETHAN  and 
JACOBEAN  PERIODS :  HENRY  of  HUNTINGDON  aad  GEOF- 
FREY   of   MONMOUTH;   EARLY  GOLF  ia  ENGLAND;    PER- 
SIAN PARALLEL  to  Ibe  ARTHURIAN  LEGEND. 
Alm- 

UTBRARY  GOSSIP. 

BCIEMCE-Moior  Yehlelee :  Llbrarr  Tablo ;  Aattaropologleal  Utera- 
tares  Tbe  DlMOTery  of  Jajtltert  SateUltee;  Sodetlee;  Meetlaff* 
Next  Woek ;  Ooerip. 

PIKE  ARTB-Ubiary  IkUe;  The  Whlteckapel  Art  OaUerf;  Royal 
luttCMo  of  Patatert  la   Water  Oeioort;  Reeeat  PriaU;  Sale*; 
Goeelp. 
MUSIC -PopiUar  CoaeerU;  Sir  Joha  Stalner;  Goeelp ;  Perforaanooe 
Neatffeok. 

» ;  Loaely  LlYes ;  Library  Tteble ;  Goeelp. 


TU  ATUHNAiUMfor  March  25  conCatiu  ArtiicU$  on 
mi.  CUNNINGHAM  o«  MEOI£VALaad  MODERN  ECONOMICS. 
Tke  GOOD  MAN  of  the  BIGHTBBNTH  CENTURY. 
nRDIMAMD  Of  BRUNSWICK. 
MOUNT  OMI  aad  BEYOND. 
A  NEW  BOOKoa  the  CONSTITUTION. 
Mew  NOVELS -.-The  Chvreh^  of  Hamaal^;  TbeLeeeer  BtII  ;  Thle 


Body  of  Heath ;  dcoaadrele  *  Co. ; 
Oonea ;  Tte  Shadow  of  GUalaad. 


Redemptloa  of  Darld 


X^^W-BOOKE. 

KaCENTTBEEE. 

HUOKB  oa  the  WAR. 

OUR  UBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

HMWLY  OISCOTERED  documents  of  the  ELIZABETHAN  aad 
JACX>BBAN  PERIODS;  MR.  CHARLB8  AUCKLAND:  SIR 
EDWARD  MALBT'S  'SHUTING  SCENES';  The  WORD 
-FRAIL  ":  SALE:  *  YEOMANRY  or  MOUNTED  INFANTRY  7' 
THE CFttlMe  PUBLISHING  SEASON. 
Aim 

X.JTBEART0088tP. 

•OIEHCE-ABthrepolofieal  Notee ;  DUeorery  of  the  Hawallaa  lelaade 
ka  UI9:  Eariy  Port«f«eee  TimYeUs  "nie  mymolocy  of  some 
Atrieaa    Beiaataal   Tereu;   Soeletlei;    Meettage    Next  Week) 

VXHB  ARTB-Maatena ;  Mr.  ShaaBoa'i  Work  at  the  Doteh  GaUery  i 

The  BIyth  BBgrnTlaiie  {  Salee ;  Ooeilp. 
ECinnC-Poairiar  Oeaeerte ;  Herr  Saaer**  Plaaoforte  Reeltal ;  Goeelp  \ 

PMonaaMeeNext  Week. 
l>EUMA.8elf  e  the  Mas ;  Goeelp. 


Tfu  A  TUSNAtUM  for  March  SO  contaitu  Articln  on 
The  LIFE  of  MR.  CHILDER8. 
The  MYTHS  of  GRBBCE. 
A  DISCUSSION  of  ETHICS. 
TAINB  aad  hie  WORK. 
THREE  CORONATION  ORDERS. 

NEW  NOVELS  :-LoYe  aad    Hoaoar;    A    l.ittle    Grey    8heep;    A 
Hicycle  of  Gather ;    Ihe  HarTlvur ;  MIm  .Splaaey ;  TUae'e  Fool 
Jeha  Towaley ;  BiTat  aalaaoM. 

EDUCATIONAL  LITERATURB. 

PUBLICATIONS  of  the8.P.C.K. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NBW  BOOK8. 

NEWLY  DISOOVBRBD  DOCUMENTS   of  th«t  BLIZABBTHAN  and 
JACOBBAN  PBRIOD8;  The   WORD  '•FRAIL";  llie  TROUBA- 
DOURS i  The  FIRST  EDITION  of  •  Tbe  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESb ' 
MiM  0.  M.  YONGE. 

Atao— 

LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE  :-Reoeat  PabUoatioae ;  Sooletiee ;   MeeUafa  Next  Week  > 
Goeelp. 

FINE  ART8:-Mr.  Lefroe  at  Oarflui'e  Uallery  ;  IIm  Newly  DI«sovered 

Vermeer ;  Tbe  Blyth  Hale ;  Goeelp. 
MUSIC:— Dido  aad  Jioeac:  The  Maeqae  of  Loto;  Popalar  Coaoert; 

PhUharmoalo  Coaoert ;  Oouip ;  Perfonaanoee  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-The  RcTolted  Daughter ;  Ubrmry  Table ;  Goeelp. 


The  ATHENAiUM  for  March  16  contains  AriicUt  on 

DR.  GARDINER'S  HISTORY. 

THE  ROMANCE  of  LAST  CENTURY. 

MR.  WRATISLAW  oa  MR.  SWINBURNB. 

BRISTOL  RECORDS. 

SELECTIONS  from  DR.  CRBIGHTON'S  WRITINGB. 

NEW  NOVELS  r-lliat  Sweet  Baemy:  The  Lo«t  Lead;  The  Sio  of 
Jasper  SlaadUh;  Tlie  Glri  at  the  Halfway  House ;  Two  sidee  of  a 
Queetloa ;  Aceordlag  to  Plato ;  Naomi'c  Exodus ;  The  Mayor  of 
Uttlejoy ;  The  Master  Paaeloa ;  Dayi  of  Doubt. 

FRENCH  LITERATURB. 

SHORT  81X)RIBS. 

SPORTS  aad  PASTIMES. 

LAW  aad  POLITICS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

SIR  EDWARD  MALBTV  'SHIFTING  SCENES';  The  ROYAL  HIS- 
TORICAL SOCIETY;  The  SPRING  PUBLISHING  SMASON  • 
SALE. 

Alm- 

LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE :— Life  Of  Sir  Joha  Fowler,  Geogrmphlcal  Notee:  Astro- 
aomloal  Notee ;  Sodetlee;  MeeUaga  Next  Week  ;  Goeslp. 

FINE  ARTS T— The  Cretaa  Script;  The  Blyth  BagraYiogB;  Salok 
Goeslp. 

MUSIC :— The  Week ;  GoMlp ;  Performaaoes  Next  Week. 
DRAMA :— The  Bhakepeare  First  Folio .  Goeaip. 


The  ATHENJEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    C     FRANCIS,    Atbenseam    Office,    Bream's  Baildings,    Chancery  Lane,   E.G. 

And  of  all  NewsagentB. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    Vf^B.yjLAnn.u,ugL 

Crown  8to,  pp.  620,  doth,  Peraian  morocco  back,  top  edge  gilt,  5«. 

CLASSICAL  AND  FOBEIGN  QUOTATIONS, 

Law  Terms  and  Maxims,  Proverbs,  Mottoes,  Phrases  and  Expressions 
in  French,  Gterman,  Greek,  Italian,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  Portuguese, 

WITH    TKAN8LATION8,  REEEKENCES,  EXPLANATORY    NOTES  and   INDEXES. 
By  WM.  FRANCIS  HENRY  KING,  M.A.,  Ch.  Ch.,  Oxford. 


London:   J.   WHITAKER   &  SONS,    12,   Warwick   Lane,   E.C. 

WHITAEEB'S    PEERAGE. 

A  COMPLETE  FEEOAGE,  BABONETAOE.   KNIOHTAGE  AMD 

OOMFANIONAGE. 

Whitaker's  Peerage  contains  everything  nsoally  sought  for  in  a  work  of  the  kind,  with  many  particoUrs 

not  to  be  found  elsewhere. 

ENLARGED   AND    IMPROVED. 

PRICE   TWO   SHILLINGS  AND   SIXPENCE. 

Or  fall  royal  blue  roan,  gilt  edges,  4s.  6d.  net. 


WHITAEER'S   ALMANACK   FOR    1901. 

This  has  been  again  enlarged  by  sixteen  pages,  and  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  informalio^^ 
contains  the  Members  of  the  New  Parliament,  the  newly  constituted  London  Borough  Councils,  and  tk^^ 
new  London  School  Board,  also  a  variety  of  other  interesting  Articles  on  subjects  of  General  Interast 

Crown  8vo,  paper  covers,  Is. ;  or,  with  Appendix,  half  bound,  28.  6d. 


London:   J.  WHITAKER  &  SONS,  12,  Warwick  Lane,  E.C. 


FHat9d  bf  iOEM  BDWARD  F&AMCI8,  AtiMarom  PreM.  Bcwun's  BoUdiafi.  CtaAaesrj  Lm«,  1.0  (  m4  PsMUhttd  to 
/OHM  0.  VaAMOU  M  Bctm'ft  BtUAtet^OkUMUf  LMsTao.    Jrtwwter.  AfrU  1*.  ISOL  ^ 


NOTES    AND    QUERIES: 


FOB 


LITERARY     MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


*«WlL0n  found,  make  a  note  of."— Captain  Cuttub. 


No.  173.  [b'ISS.]  Saturday,  April  20,  1901.  \  ^^^^^^^ 


DBDICATBD  Bt  GKAOIOUS  PBIVILBGB  DURING  HBR  LIFBTIMB  TO 

HBR    LATB     MAJESTY     QUBEN     VICTORIA, 

SOVBBBIGN  OF  THB  MOST  NOBLB  ORDBB  OF  THB  GABTBB. 


THE  STALL  PLATES 
OF  THE  KNIGHTS  OF  THE 

ORDER  OF  THE  GARTER. 

1348-1485. 

A  Series  of  Ninety  Full-sized  Coloured  Facsimiles.    With  Descriptive  Notes  and 
Historical  Introdactions. 

By  W.  H.  ST.  JOHN  HOPE,  M.A. 

These  Stall  Plates  are  the  Permanent  Memorials  of  the  Knights  of  the  Order  of 
the  Grarter,  set  up  in  their  Stalls  in  accordance  with  the  Statutes.  To  the  Anti- 
quary, the  Herald,  and  the  Genealogist  they  are  of  especial  value  as  contemporary 
coloured  representations  of  the  Arms  and  Crests  of  the  Knights,  and  as  a  chrono- 
logical series  of  examples  of  Armorial  Art  they  are  unrivalled.  No  systematic 
examination  of  them  has  hitherto  been  made,  nor  has  a  single  plate  as  yet  been 
properly  and  adequately  represented  in  colours  in  any  work.  The  Stall  Plates 
are  represented  full  size  and  in  colours  on  Japan  vellum,  in  exact 
lacsimile  of  the  originals,  in  the  highest  style  of  chromo-lithography, 

4rom  photographs  of  the  plates  themselves.  Each  plate  is  accompanied 
fcy  descriptive  and  explanatory  notes,  and  the  origin  and  general  characteristics  of 
"the  stall  plates  are  fully  dealt  with  in  an  historical  introduction.     There  are  also 

included  numerous  Seals  of  the  Knights  reproduced  by  photography  from  casts 

si)ecially  taken  for  this  Work. 

Only  500  Copies  of  the  Work  are  being  printed.     To  be  completed  in  Eight 

^lonthly  Parts,   price  12s.  6d.    net   per  rart.     Orders  will  only  be  accepted 

for  the  Complete  Work.     The  First  Part  will  be  issued  immediately. 

*^*  A  detailed  Prospecttbs  wiU  be  sent  on  application, 
Westminster:    ARCHIBALD  CONSTABLE  &  CO.,  Ltd.,  ^,^Y)i^\i«X\^^T\«cA, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    (9*s.vn.AFRiL20,iwi. 


ryUK    ENGLISH    HISTORICAL    UEVIEW. 

X  No.  62,  APRIL,  ro7»l  8to,  price  it. 

Bdited  by  KEOIMALD  L.  POOLB.  M.A.  i>h.D.,  FaUow  of  MaffdmleB 
Oollef  e,  Mid  Lecturer  in  Diplomatic  in  the  UnlYertity  of  Oxford. 

C9iUmt$. 

1.  Vniatory  NoU. 

2.  ArlicUs. 

MANDBLL  C&BIOHTON.  BISHOP  of  LONDON,    hj  K.  OameU. 

C.B.  LL.D. 
MOICMBBN'B  ROMAN   CRIMINAL  LAW.     B7   J.   L.  Btimcban- 

IMTldson.  LL  D. 
SIR  ANTHONY  HUNOIIRFORD'8  •  MEMORIAL.'    By  Mln  Lanra 

M.  Robert*. 

By 

3.  .\oUs  and  DocwHenU :— Lanfranc  and  the  Antipope.    By  Prof.  Lieber* 

■nana.  LL  D.— The  Laws  of  Breteoll.  By  Mlu  Mary  Bateton. 
Part  iy.~  Barxhal  Colonisation.  ( Continued.;— A  Letter  from 
OUTer  Cromweii  to  hie  8on  Henrr  r  October  13. 1657  >.  By  C.  H. 
firth,  LL.D.— The  Dicpoeition  of  Troops  in  London  in  Mareh, 
1815.    By  James  Bonar.LLD. 

4.  lUnttpa  of  Books.— 6.  Notices  </  Periodical  PublteaUons. 

L0N0MAN8,  ORBEN  *  CO.  London.  New  York,  and  Bombay. 


l-he  FOREIGN  POLICY    of  ENGLAND  under  WALPULB. 
Basil  Williams.    l*art  V. 


I^H 


EDINBURGH         REVIEW. 

No.  386.    APRIL.  1901.    Svo.  price  6«. 
QUEEN  VICTORIA. 

1.  CANADA. 

2.  OUR  NAVAL  POKrriON. 

3.  M.  MAURICE  MAETERLINCK.  MORALIST  and  ARTIST. 

4.  MINISTERS  and  DIRECTORSHIPS. 
i.  The  BNGLIbH  UTILITARIANS. 

6.  The  IRISH  CATHOLIC  CLERGY. 

7.  The  HARLBY  PAPBRS. 

8.  AMERICAN  and  ENGLISH  WORKING  PEOPLE. 

9.  UNIMA6INARY  LOVB-LBTTERS. 

10.  WOODCUTS  and  the  ILLUSTRATION  Of  BOOKS. 

11.  The  NATION  and  the  ARMY. 

LONGMANS,  GREEN  *  00.  London,  New  York,  and  Bombay. 


MARCH  NUMBBR  NOW  READY. 

MORING'S       QUARTERLY. 
Aa  Ulnstmed  Journal  devoted  to  Art,  Archaolofy  and 
Heraldry. 
Price  Is.  i  by  post,  1«.  3<l.    No.  XVII.  commenees  a  New  Series. 

FRENCH  ART  of  the  PAST  at  the  PARIS  EXHIBITION.    Illttstrated. 

The  ROMAN  CAMP  at  BIRD08WALD.    lUostrated. 

OL.D-WORLD  NAME-PUNNING. 

NOTB8  on  EXTRA-PAROCHIAL  REGISTERS. 

The  -NEW  GENEALOGY." 

The  DE  LA  MORE  PRESS,  62,  High  Holbom,  London,  W.C. 

NOW  READY,  SECOND  EDITION,  REVISED  and  AUGMENTED, 
prioe  Sizpenoe. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A.  F.R.A.S. 

G.  BTONEMAN,  38.  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 
TENTH  EDITION,  price  Two  HbiiiinffS. 

/CELESTIAL     MOTIONS:     a    Handy    Book    of 

V^    Astronomy.    Tenth  EdiUon.    With  3  Plates.    By  W.  T.  LYNN, 
B.A.  F.R.A.8. 

"  Well  known  as  one  of  our  best  introductions  to  astronomy." 

(duardian. 

SAMPSON  LOW  *  CO.  St.  Dunttan's  House,  Fetter  Lane.  E  C. 


'THE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER -PAD. 

X     (Th«  LEADEN  HALL  PRB8S,  Ltd..  Publishers  and  Printers, 
M,  Leadealiall  Street.  London,  B.O.) 

K  ontalas  hairless  paper,  over  wnlch  th«  p«o  slips  with  perfect 
IretMom.  Sixpence  eaea.  6f.  per  dosen,  rulea  or  plain.  New  Poeket 
Sise,  3s.  per  dosen,  ruled  or  plain. 

Author*  should  note  that  The  Leadenbali  Press,  Ltd..  cannot  be 
rMpunaible  lor  the  lois  of  M 88.  by  Are  or  otherwise.  Duplicate  copies 
•houm  be  reiainea. 


EXCHANGE  (or  would  SUB-LET)  for  THREE 
MONTHS,  a  HOUSE  in  Soutb-West  Suburb  i6U.  rental)  for  a 
kuatdeace  /o  Che  Ooantry,  or  tseaaide— Apply  P..  Athenvum  Press, 
Bremm  »  BuildingB,  B.V. 


N^ 


OTES  AND  QUERIES.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 

to  N0TB8  Ajro  QUBRIBS  free  by  post  is  10*.  M.  for  Six  MMths ; 
or20«.  9d.  torTwelre  Months,  including  the  Volume  Index.— JOHN  C. 
FRANCIS.  Nous  and  Qtteries  OfBoe.  Bream's  BuMdings,  OhMMary  Lane. 

T'HE    CORONATION    of    QUEEN    VICTORIA. 

FOR  SALE,  a  Copy  of  the  SUN.  Second  Bdition.  Jaae  S.  UM, 
printed  in  Gold,  containing  a  Full  Acconat  of  the  Qnaen'a  Covoaatlea 
and  a  Deecription  of  the  State  Carriages  of  Marshal  Sonlt  and  the 
other  Ambassadors  —Offers  requested  to  Z.,  Athenmum  Preea,  Bream's 
Buildings,  Chancery  Lane.  B.C. 


E' 


LITERARY  and  TECHNICAL  TRANSLATION 
from  French  or  German  undertaken  by  FRBDBRIGK  WHABTUM 
MARRIOTT,  Esq, late  of  the  Indian  RoTeane  Senriee.  Tl,  Gtatraee 
Parade,  Southsea.— Terms  on  application. 

NGLISH   MIDDLE-GLASS   FAMILIES, 

JJi  A.D.  Ufa-1800.— Collector  ol  Pedigrees  and  Pedigree  BTldcaes 
InTltes  Inqniriee.-Addreee  RECORD  AGENT,  80,  Heecreft  Road, 
Brock  ley,  London.  6.E. 

TO  GENEALOGISTS  and  OTHERS.  —  Ansell. 
Badooek.  Blackall.  Blake.  Bailey,  dko. ;  BeUey,  Benrae,  Bam. 
Byrne.  Bower,  Bowers.  Bowyer.  Ac. ;  Biadshaw.  Beckaer.  BuUea, 
Bugden.  carter.  Chaloner,  Clayton.  Connell.  Oomlsh,  BUlstoa,  Haasall, 
Ac. ;  Hazard,  Haines,  Ac. ;  Penn.  nater.  Ponder.  Tilbury.  Woolvea. 
Wyatt 

Complete  Lists  of  above  Wilis  and  Admons.  In  the  P.C.C  Caleadan, 
Somerset  House,  down  to  Year  1800.  Partial  Usts  other  Names;  aad 
niaay  Will  Abstracts.— Messrs.  B.  A  O.  CLAYTON.  10,  Old  Palace  Laac. 
Richmond,  Surrey. 

^ULLETON'S    HERALDIC     OPFICK 

lor  Searches  and  Authentic  Information  retpectlBg 

ARMORIAL   BEARINGS   AND   FAMILY    DB8CBMT8. 

with  a  Separate  Departmeat  tor  the  Artistic  FrodaeUoa  of 

HERALDIC  PAINTING  AND  BNORAVINO. 

Book-Plates.  Seals.  Dies.  Signet  Rings.  Urery  Bntuma,  Created  Neis- 

Paper,  VisitiBg  and  Inritation  Cards,  Ae. 


C 


W.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Farkj. 


BOOKS,  MSS.,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 
CO.,  Auctioneers  of  Books  and  Literary  Property  of  every 
deseriptlon.  Libraries  and  smaller  Collections  oarefaily  caialogaes 
and  promptly  oflbred  for  Sale.  Packing  and  Remoral  arranged  for. 
Valuations  made  for  Probate  or  other  purpoees.  Aactten  Booms,  Wi, 
Chancery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end).    Established  1800. 

BOOKS.— ALL  OUT.OF-FRINT  BOOKS  sup- 
plied, ao  matter  on  what  Subjeet.  Ackaowledgeo  the  world  over 
as  thi>  most  expert  Htosflnders  extant.  Pless^  iiate  wenu.— BABEBI^ 
Great  Bookshop,  14-10,  John  Bnght  Street.  Birmingham. 

CATALOGUE  (No.  68)  of  CHOICE.  CURIOUS. 
OLD.  and    RARE    BOOKS,  including  Rzamplee  of   —       ' 
Century  Presses ;  Artistic  Old  Morooeo  and  Armorial  Bladlan 
History.  Topography  and  Antiquity  \  Family  History  and  T 
Bannatyne  Club  Publlcatiuns ;  Witchcraft  Liteiatore ;  and  I 


Items  in  all  C 

Post  free  on  appUcatioa  to 
GEORGE  P.  JOHNSTON,  »,  George  Street,  Bdinbwgh. 


AOBNCT  FOR  AMERICAN  BOOKK. 

/  '      P.    PUTNAM'S   SONS,    PUBLISHERS  and 

\Jo  BOOK8BLLBBS. 

of  n  and  29,  West  Brd  Street.  New  York,  and  14.  BEDFORD  STRBBT. 

LONDON.   W.O.,  desire   to  caU  the   atteattoa    of  tbe    RBADDfO 

PUBLIC  to  the  excellent  faciliUes  presented  by  their  BraMh  Hoese  la 

London  for  fllltng.  on  the  most  tsTonrable  terms,  evien  for  thetr 

own     STANDARD     PUBLICATIONS,     and    for     ALL     AMBRICAN 

BOOKS. 

catalogues  sent  on  applieatio». 


THEN  iEUM      PRESS.— JOHN     EDWARD 


prepared  to  SUBMIT  IMTIMaTBS  tor  aU  kuida  of  BUOK.  MBW8, 
and  PERIODICAL  PRINTING.— 18,  Bream'a  BelMiaga,  llMaiisrT 
Lane,  EC 


9i»s.viLAFRiL2o,i90i.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


301 


LONDON,  8ATUBDAY,  APRIL  ft>,  JmL 


CONTENTS, -No.  173 

KOTK^  i^Bit  Jamftt  Audl^j  anil  Ma  Fayr  iEtqtilrM,  t'k)!— 
L»Uf-Tol<?a<i»U  301-**  JflTTT  boild  ":  *'  /tirry-buUi/"  :w-^ 
*'€a(wHty":  "♦O*|»eiou*"*— **Th*'rtiloUtit}/'  Si^-GpurKt 
£t4tinde'r«.  Architect— Tho  l*tf?  Mf.  Oerftrf^e  lIurrAy  Smith 
mnti  thp  Authors  for  whom  bt»  PiiMhhed,  301* 

Fa**44<?  la  Pope  — Tbp  "Flying  Dubcbinin"  — Geitlc 
Seabed ut£is  of  the  19i>t  0Afiiu«-'*0ft4t  "^MibcLeaT  Fnmltj 
— W.  Tiertiey  Clirk  — '^Qiiisi  mortul  iKia  raunlent*'  — 
Hi.ireQ,^  of  St.  Bbutithi*  ^  Hwfth-  M^an^T  —  Or.  He^afy 
MaitU.  30a— Ottronihth^a  Stooti— ^The  fijmcljfc^ji  of  MAthen 
— ^'LetlftTi  from  loitU  athI  Kftahmlr' —  RlcbftFd  Heme, 
BluMff  of  Lottdoa  —  "  La  ly  "  »nd  *'  Qonttewom&Q  "  — 
Wrfchfiffil  Hopflforl— Cpo***  Hall— Tbe  '"OrowTi*'  bebiod 
Me  maywl  Hmhmnge  -  Dim S el  Tu vill  - '  Oa ford  U n i veral ty 
Daiendftr/  3Q»-HiigliHh  MeidJwPS  <>f  PurlifttUffiit,  310 

Perelle'i  Ktching^  —  OljimiB  Myettrf  —  Latin  Mwtia  — 
Viiaiibhi^  Loiidyri  — *Th«  Piljjrtin's  Fniii{r«iif  " :  Burly 
Bdlttou  ill  Ff«*iicb  -The  Title  of  BBquire— B*xa  Chloi,  312 
— aotwrt  Jobn§on,  Sh*?rlff  of  LoTidon— B^eel£ttl^1ilJt(fe  — 
Sl^  Aivthony  BmtjJMi'm,  ai;i-"  IiudurrwtiDn  "— *'  Glubbm|$ 
tbfl  trntUHon"— Sutter  FrtmlW— "  LyogeU  " -- Huitflnn 
Fftmllj— Living  in  Tbrt*«i  Uenturii^,  3U  —  lri«cH[>tion  In 
Elunel  Churoh— Aiitlior  of  Verewi  Wantefl  —  tJmwnrd 
Hcftrfii,  3Ut— "Hoot^fi"*  junl  *'  SitooHaneiim ''— Piiiflii^ti^ou 
— I>«iteiMiA.3l<S— Kinp  Bflw&rrt  Vn/R  Title  in  Scotland 
— Rfirnka  SteelyAnl  We^gbti— Ttift  Elfiuiiig  of  th^^  ThrtAU 
—  *'!Jiijjl  or  Sytiil,"  ;11T  — Ugn  VottmUt  In  London  — 
C3otumlj*iia^*'  B#lingfl  with,/*  MH. 

HOTBS  Off  BOOKSi-'StopeH"*  *  Shakeapeare'*  P*iiiny'- 
Ga(M!h'i  *  AbOAte  of  PoUiICA  And  Culture  '  —  Furj^ufton't 
'S^nne  Afpectii  of  BiblioHmphy '  — Enf  tie's  *rci*mt  by 
J*mt*a  ThomBoti /  — - PhUiippe  B  'Frescoes  In  the  Sivtine 
ChApeL' 

iTolleei  to  OorTeMpotidenU. 


SIR  JAMES  AUDLEY  AND  HIS  FOUR 

ESQUIRES. 

iSm  under  *  Dattoti  Family/  9^  S,  vi.  409,  517; 

viL  51,  UT,  174,  293.  J 

Ik  discussing  the  details  of  the  story  of 

Sir   James  Audley  and    his   four   esq u ires 

ftt   Foitierii   it   must   alwa^^s    be    borne   in 

mind  that  the  modern  version  in  the  Rev.  E. 

Hinehliffe's  '  Barthoraley '  (1^56),  and  in  other 

local  histories  of  Clieshire,  is  very  different 

from  the  simple  story  found  in  the  p&^as  of 

Froissart,     Froissart  tells  us  that  Edward 

the  Black  Prince  on  the  battlefield  of  Poitiers, 

on  19  September,  1356,  rewarded   with  fKX) 

marks  the  valiant  knight  Audley,  who  there 

md  then,  in  the  pre^nce  of  five  witnesses 

(whose  names  are  given),  diatribufced  the  gift 

AfDon^  his  four  esquires  (whose  name^  are 

RQt  given X  because  they  had  served  him  so 

freil,  and  saved  his  life  on  that  notable  Hay, 

Jlodero   writers  have   iiaid    that    the    four 

enquires  were  named  Sir  Thomas  Duttoo,  of 

Outton,  Sir  John  Delvea  of  Doddington,  Sir 

Ilobert  Fowleshurst,  of  Ore  wo,  and  Sir  John 

Mawkestone,  of  Wrinehill,  all  of  thom  Ches- 

Hire  kniKhte  ;  also,  that  they  received  gifts 

cif  land  from  Sir  Jaiues  ATidle\%  and  that  oo 

t^hem  was  conferred  the  further  hoaoar  of 


bearing  the  badge  of  Audley,  the  frei  or.  on 
their  coat  armour,  in  recognition  of  their 
services  in  that  battle,  Froissart's  main  idea 
in  recording  the  doughty  deeds  of  the  valorous 
knight  was  evidently  to  show  Sir  James 
Audley  to  have  been  as  raagnanimous  as  be 
wa-H  brave,  and  the  original  story  carries  with 
it  the  simplicity  of  truth;  hut  the  later 
elaborations  of  the  story  liave  doubtless  been 
invented  to  account  for  the  origin  of  the^V^^ 
or  badge  on  the  shields  of  four  familioa 
among  Uheslji re's  "chief  of  men'*  in  ancient 
times  ;  and,  coui^uentlyf  the^e  amplifica- 
tions, not  being  history,  may  be  con.^igned  to 
the  lumber-room  of  legendary  lore. 

The  fabulous  part  of  the  storv  was  current 
long  before  Dr.  Gower  printed  it  in  1774  in 
hi8  'Materials  for  a  History  of  Cheshire 'j 
for  there  is  preserved  at  D<xldiogton  HaU, 
Cheshire,  a  MS.  folio  of  deeds,  pedigrees. 
arms,  &c.^  containing,  inter  aliu^  a  "  Copy  or 
the  Descent  of  Delvea  as  it  appeareth  in  a 
Booke  sometime  belonging  to  William  Flower, 
Esq.,  Norroy  King  of  Arms  "  Ueni/h  Elia^abeth), 
ana  accompanying  that  pedigree  occurs  the 
following  memorandum  i— 

**  Gulea,  a  Fret  Or*  were  the  Armea  of  the  valiant 
Jamea  li^  Audeley,  Rt.,  Baron*  Audley  of  Hel<3gh^ 
to  whom  the  most  renowned  Edward,  aura  timed  the 
Black  Prince,  gave  land^  to  the  yearly  value  of 
6(11  niarks,  To  have  and  to  hold  to  him  and  hia  heirt 
&c.  for  taking  the  French  king,|  aad  other  his 
manly  e^^ploits  at  the  ballail  of  Foytierv,  anno 
Hegni  Reps  Edwardi  tertii,  ^1".^  This  valiant 
mindod  L"*^  Audley  aforesayd,  after  the  receipt  of  so 
bountiful!  a  gift  at  the  Prince  hie  hands,  did  not 
only  of  hia  moat  frank  and  libarall  dia{>0€itioD 
bestow  the  landa  so  given  (of  the  yearly  value  of 
500  marka)  uiion  his  four  E5<]uiara  then  attendant 
upon  hit)i>  but  also  some  part  of  hia  Coiit'Arraoiir# 
in  token  of  hiu  liberall  bounty,  vis;.  The  Fret  Or. 

Button »  of  Dutton,  Eiiq. 

Dolvoa,  of  Doddirif  ton,  Eimi. 

Fowleahurat,  of  Crowe,  Esq. 

Hawkeatohe,  of  Wrinehill,  KaqJ* 

The  date  of  this  memorandum  and  pedigree 
synch  roni/.es  with  the  rebuilding  in  the 
sixteenth  ct^ntury  of  Doddington  Hall,  near 
the  ancient  cas toilet  in  the  park  that  still 
contains  the  dilapidated  eftigies  in  stone  of 
Sir  James  Audltw  and  his  four  esquire« 
Dutton,  Delves,  Fowle^hur^t^  and  Hawke- 
stone,  concerning  which  statues  Dr.  Gower 
thought  "that  oi  Lord  Audley  to  have  been 
original,  and  the  others  to  have  been  made 
in  the  reign  of  Queen   Elizabeth  when  the 


*  It  should  bo  understood  that  8ir  Jamea  Aadky 
waa  called  baron  beoauae  he  hold  nmch  land  In 
Houth  Cheshire  in  barony  tenure^  and  not  becauie 
be  was  .'iUinntunad  to  t*arrin.MK'nl  as  a  twor, 

t  Froissart  doea  not  aay  AacHiAy  eaptured  Kin^; 
John  as  hia  prisoner. 

I  The  t«gna\  year  ol  ^)Q®^laAA^^^Wft*'JSil^^*^;^^- 


302 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9«»s.vii.afbil2M9dl 


mansion  at  Docldingtou  was  built."*  The 
statues,  which  have  been  said  by  Hinch- 
liffe  (p.  10)  to  be  "as  large  as  life," 
were  probably  made  by  order  of  Henry 
Delves,  the  young  squire  of  Doddington, 
temp.  Elizabeth,  to  decorate  the  staircase 
of  the  castellet;  much  in  the  same  wav 
as  John,  Lord  Lumlev,  in  the  sixteenth 
century,  ordered  several  stone  etligies  to  be 
added  to  complete  the  monumental  line  of 
his  ancestors,  as  a  decoration  to  the  north 
aisle  of  the  church  at  Chester-le-Sti-eet,  in 
the  county  of  Durham. 

Now  let  us  examine  these  identifications  of 
the  four  esquires  in  the  light  of  documentary 
history,  and  the  grant  of  augmentation  of 
arms  in  the  light  of  heraldry,  which  has  been 
called  the  "  shorthand  "  of  history. 

Firstly.  Thomas  de  Dutton,  born  in  1314, 
was  forty -one  years  of  age  in  1356.  It  is, 
however,  very  improbable  that  he  was  present 
at  Poitiers,  because  having  been  appointed 
sheriff  of  his  county  on  19  August,  1353,  and 
continuing  in  that  office  in  1356,  it  is  natural 
to  suppose  he  would  have  resigned  his 
shrievalty  in  favour  of  some  one  else  if  h^  had 
been  called  upon  to  leave  England  for  France. 
But  no  such  resignation  is  recorded,  although, 
when  he  was  again  sheriff  three  years  after, 
he  did  resign  his  office  on  30  September,  1359, 
on  going  abroad  in  the  service  of  the  Earl 
of  Chester  (the  Black  Prince),t  for  which  in 
1361  he  appears  to  have  been  knighted. 
Neither  is  it  likely  that  Thomas  de  Dutton, 
whose  lands  were  situate  in  Bucklow  Hun- 
dred, in  North  Cheshire,  was  an  esquire 
attache  of  Sir  James  Audley,  whose  Cheshire 
lands  lay  in  the  south  part  of  the  county : 
and  there  is  no  proof  whatever  that  he  hela 
lands  under  Sir  James  prior  to  1356,  nor, 
indeed,  obtained  any  lands  from  him  after 
that  date.  Nor  are  heroic  deeds  of  tlie  said 
Dutton  at  Poitiers  ever  referred  to  by  Sir 
Peter  Leycester,  the  ijreat  authority  on  the 
history  of  ancient  Cheshire  families,  and 
particularly  those  in  Bucklow  Hundred.  But 
Sir  Peter,  from  his  knowledge  of  ancient 
documents,  however,  does  say  that  "Thomas 
de  Dutton  usually  sealed  with  his  coat  of 
arms,  viz..  Quarterly  ("argent  and  gules],  a 
fret  [or]  in  the  second  and  third  ^;  but  it 
must  be  remembered  that  in  the  time  of 
Edward  III.  quartering,  rather  than  impale- 
nient>  was  the  common  mode  of  indicating 
marriage  with  an  heiress  ;  and,  consequently, 
tlie  fret  or  on  Thomas  de  Dutton*s  seal  was 


*  PenDsmVa  *  Tour  from  Cheater  to  London/  1782, 
IK  t'J. 
f  Cheshire  Kec'ognizauce  Rolls. 


not  an  augmentation    of   arms  at  all,  bat 
simply  the  family  badge  of  one  of  his  wives — 
perhaps  that  of  his  second   wife   Philippa, 
whose  family   was    unknown    to  Sir  Peter 
Leycester.    On    these   counts,   therefore,  it 
does  not  seem  possible  to  reckon  Thomas  de 
Dutton  as  one  of  Sir  James  Audley 's  esquires. 
Secondly.    The   original    coat    armour   of 
Delves  was  the  canting  badge  of  three  delve& 
or  spadefuls  of  earth,  according  to  the  seal  ot 
Henry  de  Delves  attached  to  a  deed  dated  at 
Hunsterton  on  Monday  after  Pidm  Sunday, 
23  Edward  III.  (1349).    But  an  older  brother 
of  the  said  Henry,  named  Thomas  de  Delves, 
sealed  a  deed  at  Betley,  on  Thursday  next 
after  the  feast  of  St.   Francis  (4  October) 
in   17  Edward  III.  (1343X  with   the  family 
arms   and   an   added  chevron  fretty.    Also 
John  de  Delves,  the  eldest  brother,  one  of  the 
traditionary  esquires,  executed  a  deed  con- 
stituting Johan-Peti-Johan  his  attorney  for 
receiving   lands  in  Weston  from  Sir  John 
Griffin,  Knt.,  dated  at  Chester  on    Friday 
next  before  the  feast  of  St.  Michael  (29  Sep- 
tember) in  28  Edward  III.  (13541  to  which 
he    appended    his    armorial    seal,    namely, 
On  a  tilted  shield,  a  chevron  fretty  between 
three  delves,  with  a  demi-heron  issuing  from 
a  coronet  on  a  helmet  as  his   crest,  which 
arms  and  crest  were  borne  bv  his  successors 
at    Doddington    down   to   the   seventeenth 
century.* 

Here  is  unmistakable  evidence  that  the 
"  chevron  fretty  or "  formed  part  of  the 
coat  armour  of  John  de  Delves  at  least 
two  years  before  the  battle  of  Poitiers  was 
fought ;  and  therefore  the  oft-repeated  story 
accounting  for  that  particular  bearing  mast 
be  a  baseless  fabrication.  Nor  is  there  any 
proof  among  the  numerous  charters  relating 
to  the  said  John  de  Delves — no  fewer  than 
twenty-four  in  number  between  the  year 
1343  and  the  year  of  his  death,  1369— that 
he  had  any  grant  of  land  from  Sir  James 
Audley,  although  he  had  grants  of  land  from 
Edward  III.  in  1358  and  in  1359 ;  for  he  was 
an  esquire  of  the  body  of  the  king,  and 
received  the  honour  of  knighthood  in  1362, 
and  the  wardship  of  the  Duchess  of  Bretagnc 
in  1363.  In  1364  he  served  the  king  in 
Qascony;  and  in  1365  the  king  gave  him 
40^.  annually  for  his  good  services,  and  made 
him  judge  of  King's  Bench  ;  while  the  Prince 


*  The  original  deeds  and  seals  above  mentioiied 
are  nob  now  extant ;  but  transcripts  of  the  fonuer  _ 
and  drawings  of  the  latter,  under  the  direction  of  ^ 
the  great  antiquary  Dugdale  when  he  was  Norroy  --^ 
King  of  Arms,  and  his  amanuensis  Gregory  Kin£^ : 
in  or  about  the  year  1664,  are  preserved  at  Dodding— ^ 
\  U>xi  m  \Xi«  M.^.  IqUq  before  mentioDed. 


9^  a  VIL  April  20. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


303 


of  Wales  begtowed  on  hira  lands  worth  100 
marks  for  the  term  of  his  life.  All  these 
MtaiementH  rest  on  the  authority  of  tlie 
Del  vet}  deeda  ;  and  as  John  de  Delves  was  a 
noteworthy  soldier,  he  may  iocleed  have  been 
present  at  Poitiers  without  having  neces^rily 
Di'ien  in  the  train  of  Sir  Jame^  Audley. 

Thirdl3%  Of  Robert  de  Fowle«hur»fc,  who 
died  in  1390,  little  is  known.  Aceording  to 
his  Inquisitio  post  raorfcetn,  he  held  no  lands 
in  the  Audley  barony,  and,  being  no  tenant 
of  Sir  James  Audley»  it  is  ditticult  to  see  how 
he  could  have  been  his  esquire  by  attach- 
ment,  especially  when  it  is  remeoihered  that 
he  had  the  title  of  knight  at  least  seven  years 
before  Poitiers  was  fought ;  for  "  Robert  de 
Fowleshurst,  Knight,"  occura  as  a  witness  to 
the  Delves  deed  dated  Monday  after  Palm 
Bunday,  1349,  already  alludetJ  to. 

ThB/rttty  or  in  the  coat  armour  of  Fowles- 
hurat  of  Crewe  waa  not  an  augmentation, 
bat  waa  borne  in  the  field,  the  arms  being 
Qnles,  fretty  or,  a  chief  ermine  ;  and  as 
Dr,  Orraeroa  pointed  out  long  a^o.  the  same 
bearing  was  used  by  the  Fowlesnursts  (or 
F^llesBursts,  as  the  name  is  also  written)  of 
Edl&ston,  near  Nantwicb,  then  represented 
by  a  Robert  de  FuUeshurst,  a  minor,  of  the 
age  of  sixteen,  in  the  year  1356,  who  was 
no  relation  to  Sir  Robert  Fowleshurst  of 
Crewe* 

Whether  Sir  Robert  served  at  all  in  the 
French  wars  is  not  known ;  but  it  seems 
moet  unlikely  that  he  fought  under  the 
banner  of  Sir  James  Audley  at  Poi tiers. 

Fourthly.  If  Sir  John  Hawkeatone's  fame, 
&s  one  of  the  heroeti  of  Poitiers,  depends  for 
proof  on  the  grant  of  thvi /ret h/  or  decoration 
on  the  fess  of  his  coat  armour,  that  fame 
tnnst  fall  to  the  ground  ;  for  both  he  and  his 
two  brothers  had  that  bearing  on  their 
shields  before  the  year  135$.  This  is  8hown 
In  the  published  *  Visitation  of  Cheshire, 
1560/  pp.  92-3  (Had.  Soc.  pub.),  as  follows  :— 

Sir  Thomas  Hawkestone,  Knt,  who  died 
In  or  before  13&8,  bore  Ermine,  a  fess  gules, 
iretty  or  Sir  John  de  flawkestone,  his 
3'ounger  brother,  living  in  1386,  had  for  arms 
-Krmine,  a  fe^  gules,  fretty  or,  a  bordure 
c^ngrailed  of  the  second;  and  Nicholas 
JUwkestone,  the  youngest  brother,  living  in 
^  Edward  UL  (1352),  bore  Argent,  a  fesa 
soles,  fretty  or^between  three  birds  sable, 

Sir  John  de  Hawkestone  held  in  the  time 
^  Richard  IL  the  manor  of  Small  wood  in 
^eshire,  worth  20/,  per  annum,  subject 
^^  homage  and  service  to  the  heirs  of 
-^ieholas  Audley,  the  son  of  Sir  James  Audley 
T^tiot*  however,  by  grant  or  reward  from  Sir 
^^mes,  but  hy  hmruhip  &£tet  th&  dmth  of  hm  \ 


brother  Sir  Thomas  Hawkestone,  who  had 
obtained  the  said  manor  from  Adam  de 
Drayton  in  24  Edwanrj  III.  (13,10)/ 

Sir  John  Hawkestone^  like  Sir  Robert 
Fowles hurst,  has  no  military  renown  in 
history,  and  therefore  it  seems  a  gratuitous 
assumption  to  say  he  was  present  at 
Poitiers. 

Lastly.  Thia  much  cherished  Cheshiw 
story,  which  Dr.  Ormerorl  nearly  a  hundred 
years  ago  regarded  as  a  doubtful  tradition, 
apparently  onginate^l  at  Doddington,  when 
statues  were  set  up  to  commemorate  the 
supposed  heroes.  But  although  feudal  chiefs 
in  ancient  times  often  granted  a  portion  of 
their  armorial  bearings  to  favoured  followers 
in  battle,  or  to  holders  of  land  under  them, 
yet  the  tradition  that  the  h^ds  of  the 
families  of  Duttoa,  Delves,  Fowles hurst,  and 
Hawkestone  were  so  rewarded  cannot  be 
accepted,  because  it  contradicts  chronology. 

It  may  be  pointed  out  that  two  other  con- 
temporary families  in  the  southern  part  of 
Cheshire  no  re  a  fret  on  their  shields,  namely, 
Trussel  of  War  mine  ham  and  Chanut  of 
Willaston,  near  Nantwich.  Sir  Alan  Chanu 
was  certainly  in  attendance  upon  the  Black 
Prince  at  Poitiers,  and  had  a  grant  of  an 
annuity  of  40/.  by  warrant  dated  February, 
1357  (Cheshire  Recognizance  Rolls):  but  I 
hold  no  brief  for  members  of  these  families 
as  armigers,  or  armour-bearers  of  Sir  James 
Audley,  believing  the  names  of  Sir  James 
Audley  s  esquires,  like  the  names  uf  many 
of  the  world's  worthies,  to  be  still  unknown. 

James  Hall. 

Lindum  Uaiinc,  N«ntwi<^h. 


LALLVTOLENDAL: 
A  BIBLIOURAPHICAL  HKETCK 

Mr,  J.  ScHWALM,of  Rouen,  says  in  a  sketch 
of  Tolendal  contributed  to  the  Leeda  Wee  frit/ 

Mercurt/,  17  Novemljer,  1900  : — 

"  TrophimeCi'rarci.  MAri]aia  of  LAUy»Totot)dal, 
leaiti  mail  zed  son  of  Tnomiis  Arthur,  Baron  of  Tolen- 
diu,  Count  of  Lally,  and  of  Felicity  Craft  on,  wiis 
Itctm  iu  Pane*  March  5,  1751,  and  died  there, 
March  11,  1830.  When  the  French  Revolution 
brofco  out  he  woa  Bint  to  the  Et^ts  (j^'nc^ra.ux  by 
ihe  nobility*  ftnd  sided  with  the  King^s  {Hitty,  He 
wont  to  Switzerland  for  some  timei  and  returned  to 
Fmnee  in  17^2*  waa  arretted,  hut  managed  to  escntio 
from  prison,  and  Hed  to  Kngland,  When  Louis  X\  I, 
waa  mrraifiued  before  the  Convention,  Lally  a»ked 
to  be  allowed  to  return  to  France  in  order  to  pleo^l 
for  febo  King,    That,  however,  being  not  granted  to 

*  See  Ormerod^a  *  Hiatory  of  Cheshire,*  vol.  iii. 
p,  56u 

t  The  Trutt«\  arms  ^-ett   K-Tucat,  It^VVj  ^^^^^ 
on  each  Joint  a  bfeTATtt.    TW  C\\«a\\  ojt\&*  n>«^ 
Los^ngy,  a  \)enA  irftU^  \,l\^ictutes^  ^ciX.  ivxi&\\\. 


304 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,    to*  8.  vii.  apeil  20.  iwl 


hirrii  he  piibliehed  his  defence  in  Londnri.  Upon 
[the  establishmetit  of]  the  Conaulate  he  reapi>ear©d 
in  Paria,  but  kept  from  poll  tics.  He  had  &  hand  iti 
the  publication  of  th*j  memoirs  eonceriiiner  Mane 
Anto i ne tte  attri bii t ed  to  V\'  obe r ( 1 HCM ) .  Lf i^i  i s  X  V 1 IL 
ni^e  lum  a  French  peer  and  Minister  of  t^latc  in 
1815.  The  following  year  he  entered  the  Fi-onch 
Academy  and  devoted  his  timo  to  philimtbropic 
reforms.  .  .1  maj^  add  that  both  bti  and  his  fat  her 
uaed  to  apell  their  name  Tolendai  and  not  ToUen- 
dttl." 

I  may  tjtate  that  Mackintosh  and  Catlyle 
spell  the  narae  Tollendal,  but  &  perusal  of 
title- papfes  justifies  Mr.  Schwalma  remark. 
The  bibliographical  details  here  following 
were  collected  for  a  private  literary  object, 
but  having  been  got  together,  it  aeemed  fitting 
to  let  the  public  have  the  benefit  of  them. 
Th©  pointing  oat  of  any  inaccuracy  or 
omifiaion  would  be  regard ecfaa  a  favour :— 

M^^moire  h  conanlteret  consultation  pour  le  Com te 
de  LaUy-Toleodal,  eapita-ine  de  cavalerie  dana  le 
regiment  des  cuiraBsieris,  poiLrauivaQt  la  justitication 
de  la  M^moire  et  la  Vttnj^eance  de  la  niort  dn  feu 
Comte  de  Lally,  son  p^^re  t30-24  aofltT  1778).  R43iien, 
venve  Beaongre  ©t  fiK  1778,  in  4to.  ^ 

M^  moire  produit  au  conBcil  d^Etat  du  roi  par 
Trophime-G^rardj  Comte  de  Lally-Tolendal,  capi- 
taJne  de  eavalerie  an  regiment  dea  cuirassiers,  dans 
llnBtance  en  caasation  de  I'arret  du  G  niai,  17^36,  tini 
a  eondamnc  h  moi-t  le  feu  Cemte  dc  Lally,  son  p^re. 
Ron  en,  veuve  Beaongrc  et  fila,  1779.  3  parties  en 
3  vol.  in  4to*    Dijon  et  Pans,  ann.  auiv*  in  4to. 

Plaidoyer  du  Comte  de  Lai ly-To lend al cura- 

teur,  k  la  nifimoire  du  feu  Comte  de  LaUy.  son  pere» 
contra  M.  Duv^al  d'EpriSm^niL  Rouen,  veuve 
BeaonEre  et  fila,  1780^  in  4tn.     Paris,  1781,  in  4to. 

Arr^t  1  de  la  cour  i  du  Parlement  \  Qui  suppritne 
un  Injprimi^  ayant  pour  tit  re:  [  Rt^'ponae  du  Comte 
de  LallyToleudal,  Ac,  comnie  ]  contraire  sux 
R^lemena  de  la  Libnalrie  ]  Ex  trait  des  R^gistrea 
dn  Parlement  \  Du  sept  aout  mil  aept  <;eui  qtiatre- 
vingt^un, — **  A  Paris,,  che?.  P.  C  Himon,  Ituprinieur 
du  Parlement  I  rne  Mijgnon  Saint  Andr^  des  Arts,** 
at  e  ri  d  0  f  pa  Tu  1 1  h  1  e  t .   Pari  s  [  1 78 1  ].   Copy  i  n  Bod  lei  an . 

Esaai  Rur  i|ue!qne3  changemeniB  ijn'on  jxmrrait 
faire  d^a  k  prteeut  dan  a  lea  lois  criminellea  de  la 
France,  i>ar  un  honnete  homme,  qui  depuia  qu*il  ]es 
coo  nail  n'est  pas  bien  sur  de  n'fitre  pas  i>endre  un 
jour*    Paris,  1787,  in  8vo, 

M^moire  apolo^tique  de  Lally  -  TolendaL  {son 
p^re).     Paris,  178fl,  in  Svo. 

Obiervations  sur  la  lettre  ^rite  par  M.  le  Comte 
d©  Mirabeau  au  Comit*^  de  rechercbea  eonlre  M.  le 
Comte  de  8aint-Priei!t,  ministre  d'Etat.  Paris, 
1789,  in  8vfi.    Copy  in  Brit.  Mus. 

Rapport  aur  le  jfouvcmement  gui  eonvient  k  la 
France,     PaHa,  171^,  in  8vo.    Copy  in  Brit.  Mua. 

Lettre  I  du  Conite  1  de  Lally- Tolendal  I  an  Pr^i- 
dent  i|  de  VAsaenvbl^e  Nation  ale  [  *S.  (iermaln-en- 
Laye,  10  octobre,  I78ft,  [and]  Lottre  I  du  m^me  J  h 
see  eom  met  tans  \  Neuchatel,  17  oeiobre,  17S9.  No 
place  [1789],  in  8vo.    Nsuchitei  (?J.    Copy  in  Brit. 


Extrait  j  d'une  Lettre  |  deM.  de  Latly-Tolendal  ] 

i  itf  ™'  /a  Cbro tease  do  '  •  *  |  Pour  aervir  a  sa  iuati- 
iScation.  No  place,  J  789,  in  Svo,  This  and  the 
preceding  are  in  the  Bodleian,    Co\iy  in  ?*til.  'SAu&.\  ^t  Vl'^ta  \\\V\Via\4i',  \j&ti.ve  ^^L  le  C.  de 

Pi^cea     justj^cativea  i  tontenant   \   diff4Tm\Usa\\wi.oi?av:v<itlmii^^aaa,  \j3flc^t^^Y^S2^%%^ 


motions  I  de   M.    le  Comte  |  de    LaUy-TolendaL 
Paris  [1789].    Copy  in  Bodleian  and  iu  Biit.  Mna. 

La  Cour  Ph'niere  resauseit^  i*ar  M.  lAlIy* 
TobnflaL     Paria,  1789,  8vo,    Copy  in  Brit,  Mtia. 

Motion.  ...it  rAsaenibl*5e  G^m^ralo  de*  troia 
ordres  du  Baillia^e  de  Donrdana.  [Paris]  1789,  Svo. 
Copy  in  Brit.  Mua, 

Motion  [upon  the  veritication  of  the  powers  of 
the  three  Ordera  in  the  l^t&tes  General]  faite  tians  U 
Chamhre  de  la  Kobleaae,  le  ^  mai,  17^,  imr  un 
dcput'e  de  la  Ville  de  P^rifl  [by  Laity 'Tolendal). 
[Paris]  1789,  Svo.    Copy  in  Brit.  Mus. 

Opioion. sur  la  motion  de  M*  I'Eveque  d^Autun. 

...... ^  juilk^t,   1789.     [Paris,    17891  Svo.     Copy   in 

Brit.  Mua, 

Discoura  du  Comte  de  Laliy-Tolendal  k  I'HLVt-elde 
ViUe,  le  17  juillet,  1789.     Paria,  17S9,  Hvq.     IVo 
copies  in  Brit-  MuSp 

Rapport  [on  the  conatitution  of  the  le^slalivm 
body],  &.G.  (bee  Franoei  Asaembl^  Nationale,  Proc^ 
verbal  de  rAasembl^....., Nationale,  &c,,  torn*  iv,) 

[Paris]  1789,  8vo,    Cony  in  Brit.  Mus, 

Ad  other  edition,  {See  France,  Comniitt«es  and 
Commisgiona,  Coniit^  de  la  Constitution.)  RapportJi 

du  comit'^  de  la  conatitution  pr^aent^  k  TAa- 

semhl^-e  Nationale,  6-31  aodt,  1789  [1789],  8vo,  and 
a  further  edition,    (See  Dugour,  A,  T,,  afterwards 
Gnrov,   A.  A.,   Ecole  de  Politique,  4c,,  torn,  Jti.J 
[1792]  8vo.     Both  editions  [Paria]  in  Brit.  Mua, 

Motion  de  AL  Lally  Tolendal  con t re  le  celibat  [in 
versw].    [Paris  ?  1789]  Svo,    Copy  in  Brit.  Mus, 

Diacoura A  l*A?iaemhl<^    Nationale.,  ,,,13  juil- 
let.  1789,    et   Diacours...  prononc^   4   rHotef-de- 
Ville  de  Paris  le  13  juillet  et......r*p6t<5  k  VAm&a- 

blee  Nationale  k  ta  S^^anee  du  ItL     {S«Q  Franee, 
Asseinbl^e  Nationale,  Procf^a- verbal  de  rAasenjbl^ 

Na  tio  nal  e,  &e»  J  t om ,  i, )   Paris,  1789,  8 vo.    Copy 

in  Brit,  Mna. 

Quint  ius  Cap i toll nu«  |  aux  Romaina  1  Extrait  do 
troifiii^me  Livre  do  Tit«-Li^'e  •  \  Par  M,  de  I^lly- 
TolendaL  [Pans,  1790]  8vo.  Copy  in  Bodleian  ai^ 
In  Brit.  Mus, 

M^moire  |  de  M,  le  Comte  I  de  Lally-Tolenff*!  1 
on  [  Beoonde  Lettre  |  k  &en  com  met  tans,  A  Puriiy 
chez  Dcsenne,  Libraire^  au  Palais  Royal,  jan^,  IWk 
Two  copiea  in  Bodleian,  one  in  BriL  Mu& 

Lettre  ^crite  au  lr*?fl- honorable  Edmond  Bnrfcfc 
niemhre  du  Parlement  d'Augleterre.  Paria,  IW. 
8vo. —Post  Sc  riptum ,  1791 ,  8v  0,  Be  th  in  Bri  L  Jiaa. 
Seeonde  Lettre  |  de  J  M,  de  Lally  ^Tolendal  |  kU. 
Burke  |  A  I^ondres  ;  |  et  se  trouve  ^  Paris  I  (hs 
De^jenne,  Imprimeur  -  Libraire  au  |  Palais  Ro'pl 
Nos,  1  et  2,    Londree,  I7tt2,    Copy  in  Bodleiaa 

Plaidoyer  I  du  ]  Comte  de  Lally-Tolendal  I  powf  I 
Louis  XVl.  I  Londres:  |  et  se  vend  chez  hlmdl^* 
Libraire,  Strand  j  cheis  |  Owen,  Libraire,  PiocsdiUlF  f 
et  chez  I  l>e  Bofle,  Libraire,  Gerrard  St.  1  (Aoaly^ 
dans  la  "  Collectiou  "  de  Dugour  et  dans  le  *  Bin«»H 
Fran^^^ts,')    l^oudres,  1792,    Copy  in  Bodleisa^ 

Souge  d  un  Anglais  hdele  k  «a  |:»at rie  ot  i  sOJ*^ 
(anonyme,  r^'impriiut^'  dana  )a  '^  ColleciicH)  ^f 
nieilleurs  ouv rages  uui  ont  ^te  publica  J^'^Li? 
di^feuse  de  Louis  XVL,"  jiar  Dugour;  P&t\a,  iTw 
2  vols,  Svo:  Londrea,  i™,  8voT  Brit.  Mua tiU 
mentiooa  another  edition,  ^ee  ilngour.  A,  f.i  •** 
afterwards  Gurov,  A,  A,,  Collection  des  mwlf*^ 
ouvrages,  Ac,  torn.  ii.  1793*  Svo.  The  former  i^  ^" 
the  Bodleian. 
Ei^ponse  h  M,  rAbbe  D.,  grand*  vicaire,  *Bt^'" 


9»8.vii.ApniL2o,i9oi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


305 


e-rt  rera.     Londrea,  17S6j  Svo.     Uoj^y  in  BHfc.  Mus. 

Kaflai  sur  k  vie  de  T.  Wetitwortli»  Comte  de 
Rtriiffijrd,  prinei|ia,l  ministry  d'AnelelerrQ  et  lord 
lieiit-ensLnt  d^Jrlande  aoua  le  rL-j.£ne  de  Charlea  1''% 
airi!fi  que  aur  rhistoire  gL*n*rale  d'An|rkterre, 
d'Keosiie  et  d^rUnde  ik  cette  *!'p<niiie.  Londr^s, 
naS  ;  Leipzig,  17^,  in  Evo  ;  Paris.  1814,  Svo,    Bnt 

UtUL 

Uimmte  ati  roi  de  Prunse  pour  N^jlamer  la  liberti 
de  Ui  Fa?eUe.     Paris »  17B3.  Mv-o, 

D^fenne  I  desi  [  Emigrea  Fran^^iR  f  j^dreMee  1  aa  | 
Peuj^e  FratifatH  j  par  |  Trophime-Cit^rTOrd  de  Lally* 
Tolendal  |  A  HamJwnr^  I  C3hes?  P.  F.  Fauche,  Iiti^ 
primmir  Ubraire,  1797  I  Fn  V^mmlmioti  nh&z  T, 
BrentaaiOf  Im|irjmeuret  Libraire  k  BregenzVI  voU4 
Hambourg,  1707,  Svo ;  Paris.  17@7i  Svo :  Londre», 
lTff7,  8iro  :  Paris,  1825,  Svo.  C«>piea  in  Bwileian  and 
in  Brit^  Mue. 

Quatrieme  J  et  Dernl^re  |  Lettre  |  au  |  B^daf^t^ur 
I  fill  f  Cmtrrier  de  LGiidrtt  \  iur  \m  Trois  derniurea 

S factions  relativee  I  aux  Aflkire*  Ecx:lf'«iaBtiiiucs 
e  France  j  I  «t  |  conteiiPint  auiai  la  Dilfenac  des 
^LraetAre»coritre  \  tea  Lihettes  I  Lund  res  |  De  Tlm- 
primerie  de  W.  et  U,  Spilabury,  S  now  hill  f  Se  vend 
cheK  J.  de  Boffo,  Gerrard  ^st.,  Soho  :  [  Dulau*  Boho 
Sq,;  et  aubreJi  librairen  |  [AnonymouB.]  Londres, 
1801,  8vo.    Copy  in  Bodleian. 

Opinion  Bur  le  Projet  d'Adrewe  au  Roi.  pronoacM 
daoB  la  Chambre  de  la  NobleMe[1739].  (8ec  Fmnee. 
Colleetion  de  pidc&a  inl^reaftanteflt  ^^  torn.  x4 
p801]  ivo.    Copy  in  Brit.  Mus. 

pii<K>nri  snr  lea  pouvoirs  k  donner  anic  Com- 

TDiBsaireK  Conci  liatenrs Je  29  niaii  17^0.— Diaoouri 

...... «u r  le  Plan  do.  conciliation  prowte  fmr  le  Roi, 

dti  5  juin,  1789.— Diacoui? anr  I  arrdto  du  Clerf?^ 

dii  6  juin*— Dia<;our«.„.,.sur  l^arri&te  du  Tiers  et 
Bur  la  r^ponne  propoa^  ^lar  noa  uomrois«aires. 
(See  Fmnoe^  Collection  de  pieces  inl^reaiantes,  ^c, 
torn,  iat.)    [laOI  ]  Hvo,     C^py  in  Brit.  Mus. 

Let  ires  an  r«dactaur  du  Omirrier  tU  Lmutr^^ 
[c]Hatrc8  lettrt*H ;  lei  tmu  premi^r^i  ont  ^M  rA- 
J  m  prim  tea  ii  Paria  en  1802].  Londre^,  1802,  8vo. 
Copy  in  Brit.  Mus. 

M^^nioires  concernant  Marie-Antoinette,  archi' 
dnehestie  d'Autriche,  reine  de  France,  Jkc.  [S  volij 
Lcindres,  1804,  8vo,    Copy  in  Brit.  Mua. 

be  It  re  k  MM.  Im  Redact  eurs  du  Joitma/  de 
r^fnpirt.    Paria,  1811,  8vo, 

D^taration  de  M.  Lally-Tolendal  demand ^^  par 
M.  Ferris,  adfninifltrateur-g^'nt^raL    Paris,  1814>  Svo. 

The  manifesto  of  Louis  XV III.  addressed  to 
the  Freocb  natien^  a«  drawn  np  hv  thu  Count  de 
Lally -Tolendal.  iSee  Chateaubnand,  F.  R.  Vicomte 
de,  A  report  on  the  state  of  Franop,  kn,)  1815,  8vo. 
Copy  in  Brit.  Mub. 

Ex  amen  dea  Observations  aur  la  de<?laration  du 
Ron^r^s  de  Vienne  [Cet  **  Examen "  fut  d'al>ord 
imprim^  dans  le  MoniUur  de  Gand].  Paris,  mai, 
mi5,  8va. 

Da  30  Janvier,  1619,  et  dn  Janvier,  1733.  Parii, 
21  ian..  lll5. 

Opinion  lur  la  modification  ap|:jnrt^  au  projet  de 
ki  relative  anx  livres  aalfii^ :  ehambre  dee  pairSj 
Bfence  dti  25  f^vrien  1815.     Bordeaux,  1815,  8vo. 

Opinion  snr  la  R^aolvition  relative  4  rinamovi- 
bilit4$  des  Jujies :  chambre  des  pairs,  s^jin<?e  du 
l&d^oembre,  1815,     Paris.  1810,  8vo. 

ObasTTfttlaiii  tiir  la  declaration  de  plusieura  pairs 
mjttwnm  juMStm  dani  le  Monitor  du  27  no vembrej 


Colleetions  |  des  m^molr^  |  relatifi  f  k  la  R^vn* 
lution  Fran*j^aiae.—M^nioi  reside  Weber  j  ooncemant 
!  Mane-AntoinoLrc  |  Archiduchesse  d'Autriehe  [  et 
Heine  de  France  ct  de  Navarre ;  1  avec  f  dea  no  tea 
et  dca  6cIaircift»ementH  historiiiuea  I  paf  I  MM* 
Berville  et  Barriere  I  Paris  1  Baudonin  Fr^rea,  Im^ 
primeura- Libra] res,  Rue  de  V*augirard  No.  36  ] 
[2  vole.]  1822, 8vo,    Copy  in  Bodleian  and  Brit*  Mub. 

Obeervations  ^r  la  nature  de  la  propri^te 
litt^nire,  pr^ent^^es  k  la  commission  noinmee  par 
le  roi  pour  Teisamen  prtJparatoire  du  projet  tendant 
k  ameliorer,  dans  Umturflt  des  gens  de  lettres  et 
artistes,  la  l^^ialalion  actuelle  flur  lea  dmita  dea 
auteurs  et  de  leurs  b#ri  tiers,  en  Ra  a^ance  du  9  jan* 
vier,  i.^m     Paris,  1820,  4to. 

La  Dame  blanche  de  Bla<3knels,  divertissement 
impromptu  en  troia  actes  pcnr  une  f^te  de  familte 
donn^e  par  troia  enfanta  a  leur  m^re,  rcmr^ent*^ 
it  Saint  Clermain-en-Laye  sur  Tancien  th^Atre  de 
THotcl  de  NoaiUes  en  wjtobre,  1837.  Paris,  1828, 
Svo. 

The   folio  wing  works    toentioned    in    the 

*  Nouv.  Biog.  Gt'n,'  are  without  date  or  place  : 

Opinions  et  Rapports  k  la  Chambre  de  la  noblesse 
et  k  rAssembl^^'e  nationale. 

La  traduction  de  k  'Motion  du  g^nt'-ral  Fite- 
Patrick  jiour  le  B^ncral  La  Fayette.* 

The  'Noiivelle  Biographie  Generale'  alao 
mentionH 

"  qnehjaea  pieces  dts  jtodsie  di^taehee«,  comme  une 

*  Ode  aur  la  mort  de  Mirabeau/  &c, ;  qne  traduction 
de  la  *PHKre  universelle*  de  Pope,  inninnico  en 
1821  avec  la  traduction  do  *l'Essai  sur  1 'Homme'  du 
mfime  podto  T»ar  Delille;  dea  chanaona  joyeuses ; 
une  *  lAjttre  (run  Voyage nr/  imprim^e  k  la  suite 
d'an  recti eil  de  pik-es  relative*  au  monnment  de 
Lucerne.  En  1834  Lally'ToIendsl  lut  k  I'Academie 
Francaii^e  une  tra^^ie  en  cincj  actea,  en  vera,  avec 
dea  ub*e«rs,  inlituiee  *  Tuthfll-TeAmar,  ou  la  reatan- 
ration  de  la  nionarchie  en  Irlande/  qu'il  ne  fit  pas 
iniprimer," 

Opuscules  pertaining?  to  the  'Proot^  eti 
I'lihabilitation  de  la  Mt'moirf*  du  Comte  de 
Lally,'  our  author's  father,  e.xii?t  in  the  Biblio- 
theque  Nationale,  Departernent  des  Trnprimt'^, 
CatAlojcue  dos  factum^  et  d'autres  douumentji 

i'udiciaires  anterieurs  a  1790,  par  A.  Corda. 
Wis,  Plon,  in  B**,  tome  iii.  (1894),  pp^  74-78. 

The  foregoing  bibliography  was  in^  sub- 
stance prepared  at  the  Bodleian  ;  aiiditionei 
received  frorn  Paris  were  then  inserted,  and 
the  whole  afterwards  examined  in  Leipzig 
and  reviged  at  the  British  Museum,  when* 
Mr.  Fortescue,  the  learned  Keeper  of  Print4?d 
Books,  expresaed  hia  belief  in  its  complet^- 
neas,  a  testimony  which  he  kindly  allows  ine 
to  quote.  C.  U  Dove. 

Birkdale. 

[A  list  of  publications  will  be  found  in  *  La  France 
Litter  aire'  of  Qulrard.] 


"Jersybuild"  :    **JiRBy-BU!i.T.''— I    am 
glad   to  see  that  tVv«s  Y^\\xsv  tA  ^'l^.  k  ^ 
cautions   le&dei^  (ante,  p.  ^^^  tc^iC\X!k'%^_^^ 
apocryphal  atalem^i^t  IXmvX.^*'  i^tr^j  "fetw^RJc^^ 


306 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    {9^  s.  vil  apwi.  20,  iwi. 


builders  and  oontmctonj,  were  a  Liverj>ool 

firm  in  the  earl  j''  part  of  last  century,"  which, 
Bs  he  notes,  haa  already  been  refuted  in  the^e 
columns  by  Mb.  J.  F.  Manbergh,  I  may 
add  that:^  after  seeing  the  oriiiinal  letter  to 
this  effect  printed  in  Tnith  in  January, 
18&4,  I  wrote  to  ita  author  asking  for  the 
evidence  on  which  the  statement  was  made. 
In  hia  reply ^  now  lying  before  me^  dated 
18  December,  1885,  the  writer  admitted  that 
no  evidence  wm  producible  ;  be  added  that 
he  was  under  the  impression  of  having  heard 
this  explanation  of  Je}T}/'b%[ild^  from  the 
English  mast€r  at  the  school  which  he 
attend e<l,  but  he  had  subsequently  searched 
for  authority  without  finding  any  ;  and  Sir 
James  Pic  ton,  our  great  Liverpool  authority, 
who  bad  been  consulted,  had  never  heard  of 
it.  He  therefore  could  not  maintaio  the 
reliability  of  the  story,  and  frankly  withdrew 
it  In  preparing  the  articles  on  the  Jerrt/ 
words  in  tlie  *  New  English  Dictionary  ^ 
(section  published  I  January  last)  wo 
made  further  investigation,  with  the  help 
of  correspondents  in  Liverpool,  and  ascer- 
tained that  no  trace  of  any  such  name  as 
Jerry  in  connexion  with  the  building  trade 
could  be  found.  While,  therefore,  it  is  quite 
possible  that  the  clotb- finis  her  *s  je^^l/j  the 
compositor^a  jerrj/  on  an  apprentice  complet- 
ing his  time,  a  jerry- hat,  a  jerry-shop  (or 
Tomand- Jerry  shop),  and  a  jerry-building 
may  all  contain  the  masculine  name  Jerry 
(short  for  Jeremy  or  Jeremiah),  we  are 
reduced  to  the  conclusion  that  "Jerry 
Brothers*"  have  merely  been  invented  t-o 
concoct  what,  in  view  of  its  unsubstantial, 
pretentious,  and  deceptive  character,  we  may 
distinguish  as  a  **  jerry mology  "  (the  m  being 
a  deceptive  insertion  in  the  '*  jerry -ology  "  to 
make  it  more  like  the  re-al  thing)-  We  all 
know  bow  such  become  current.  Borne  one 
wonders  what  can  be  the  origin  of  a  word  or 
phrase.  Another  of  ready  wit  (such  have 
been  in  all  ages)  offers  a  conjecture,  which 
strikes  the  inquirer  as  "very  likely"  or 
"just  how  it  must  have  happened.  He 
PR  peats  it  as  a  brilliant  suggestion.  His 
ail di tor  repeats  it  with  a  prefixed  "  It  is 
said/'  The  next  man  drops  the  *'It  is  said" 
as  rather  spoiling  the  story,  and  retails  it  as 
a  fact.  His  auditor  greedily  takes  it  down, 
and  sends  it  to  ^  N.  ik  Q.^  as  a  valuable  con- 
tribution to  etymology  ;  but  it  is  only  a 
jerry  mology,  after  all, 

A  glance  at  the   *  Dictionary '   wOl  show 

that  the  earliest  connexion  of  Jeiiy  with  the 

bailding  trade  is  its  adverbial  use  in  jerr}/- 

^uiit^  a  dia/eetal  expression  explained  m  t\\G 

'Lonsdale  G/assary,'  1869,  as  "  slightly  or  un 


substantially  built."  This  waa  also  used  by 
Mr,  Riiskin  in  1875  in  *  Fors  Claviffera.'  As 
an  adjective,  quahfying  ** builder,"  "building*' 
7Vj-rf/  appears  in  1681-2,  when  the  *  Lanca^shire 
Glossarj^ '  explained  it  as  "  bad,  defective, 
and  deceptive/"  In  those  days  it  was  still 
written  as  a  separate  word  ;  but  jerrj/  huUd€r 
and  jm^*u  huiMinff  natui'ally  sug^esjtJxi  jernj- 
f/id/d,  wliich  is  exemplified  in  1890.  Earlier 
dates  than  some  of  these  may,  of  course^  be 
found  ;  but  on  the  whole  Ruskin's  execration 
of  "jerry-built  cottages"  in  1875  seems  to 
point  to  the  literary  "coming  out*-  of  the 
word, 

I  need  hardly  point  out  that  **  jerry-built'* 
is  not  strictly  a  verb  **  formed  out  of  a  proper 
name'* ;  the  verb  is  build^  to  which  jerry  func- 
tions merely  as  an  adverb,  as  in  *' badly 
built,"  "unsubstantially  builL"  We  have 
not  found  any  verb  "to  jerry,"  although 
"  jerryism"  appeared  in  1885, 

J,  A.   H,    MURSAY. 

"Capacity":  '* Capacious,"  —  Mr.  Bums, 
M.P.,  lately  used  in  the  Commons  "capa- 
cious "  of  a  man  possessed  of  **  capacity/'  and 
was  laughed  at  for  it  by  a  few  *^*  bloo*!^" 
Napier,  however,  our  consummate  stylist  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  writes,  "  Sir  Arthur 
Well esley,,.... was  endowed  by  natnra  with  a 
lofty  genius,  and  capacious  for  war,"        D. 

[An  inHan^i'e  of  *^  cati&cious  "^   in    this    MDae    is 

S noted  imm  Ga,le,  under  date  1677,  in  *  H*E.D,*  Mm. 
rowning  employs  the  word  in  the  same  nemae,] 


"Theodolite."— Better  late  than  never, and 
I  should  like  to  thank  Prof,  Skeat  for 
correcting  (8^^' S,  viii.  13Ci)  my  inadvertently 
erroneous  spelling  (p.  64)  of  the  name  of  Prof. 
Hunaus  of  Hannover.  Perhaps  I  may  be 
allowed  to  call  Prof.  Skeat's  attention  to 
the  fact  that  be  has  not  corrected  in  the 
third  edition  of  his  *  Etymologic^  Dictionat)^  * 
the  error  in  the  dat<b  of  the  discovery  of 
oxygen  which  I  pointe<i  ont  in  g**^  S.  viii,  204, 

Now  with  regard  to  the  origin  of  that 
puzzling  word  tAeadoliu.  (Orreri/  and  simO&r 
words  would  be  equally  puzzling,  were  it  not 
that  in  that  and  other  cases  we  do  know  ho* 
they  arose)  That  it  came  from  a  proper 
name  is  a  moro  likely  suggestion  than  any 
that  has  yet  been  mide,  and  we  may  hope 
some  day  to  run  Theodulus  down.  But 
surely  it  is  not  necessary  to  supi>ose  that  he 
was  the  actual  divider  of  a  circular  rixn 
(which  was  the  earliejit  form  of  a  theodolite), 
any  more  than  that  Lord  Orrery  was  the 
first  constructor  of  an  orrery,  which  we  know 
that  he  was  not.  Prof,  Skrat  says  there « 
^a^  &  mtkt  ot  the  name  Theodulus.     Tha^ 


V 


9^  8.  viL  A^RiL  20. 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


307 


by  Smith  and  Waoe,  mentions  three.  One 
of  these,  son  of  St.  Nilus,  a  monk  of  Mount 
Sinai  in  the  fifth  century,  had  a  day  marked 
in  his  memory  in  some  calendars,  on 
14  January.  (I  do  not  know  whether  he  is 
the  one  that  Prop.  Skeat  tells  us  is  com- 
memorated at  Zermatt.)  According  to  the 
legend,  he  was  taken  prisoner  by  the  Arabs, 
who  intended  to  sacrifice  him  to  the  morning 
star,  but  he  escaped.  Possibly  the  inventor 
of  an  instrument  to  be  usea  in  observing 
may  have  named  it  after  this  saint,  who  is 
supposed  to  have4ived  just  a  thousand  years 
before  the  earliest  known  use  of  the  word  by 
Thomas  Digges  in  his  *  Pantometria,*  pub^ 
lished  in  1571. 

I  should  like  to  quote  a  passage  from  a 
scientific  book  of  more  than  a  century  ago, 
which  seems  to  show  that  the  word  had  not 
at  that  time  become  familiar  out  of  England. 
It  is  in  the  *  Observationes  Astronomicse '  of 
Thomas  Bugge,  then  Professor  of  Astronomy 
at  Copenhagen,  which  appeared  in  1784.  At 
p.  liii  we  read,  after  an  account  of  the  improve- 
ments in  telescopic  instruments  eflFected  by 
Romer  :  **  Mentem  Roemeri  sequi  coeperunt 
artifices  Angli,  construentes  astrolabia  maiora 
(Theodolite)  et  instrumenta  sequatorialia.'' 
**  Theodolits "  is  evidently  intended  to  be 
taken  as  an  English  plural.     W.  T.  Lynn. 

GsoRGE  Saunders,  F.R.S.,  F.S.A.,  Archi- 
tect (1762-1839).— I  have  had  occasion  to 
look  up  the  biography  of  this  gentleman,  and, 
as  is  commonly  the  case,  I  find  the  references 
to  him  meagre  and  in  some  instances  in- 
accurate. The  *Dict.  Nat.  Biog.'  states  that 
he  died  at  his  residence  in  Oxford  Street,  but 
does  not  give  the  number  of  the  house,  nor 
the  day  of  the  month  on  which  he  died  :  and 
further  states  that  **a  marble  bust  ot  him 
hy  Cheverton  after  Chan  trey  belongs  to  the 
Royal  Society  of  British  Architects."  Saunders 
died  at  his  residence.  No.  252  (now  No.  489), 
Oxford  Street,  on  the  south  side  of  that 
street,  near  the  Marble  Arch,  on  26  July, 
1839.  The  Royal  Institute  of  British  Archi- 
tects possesses  a  small  ivory  bust  of  him  by 
B.  Cheverton,  reduced  from  a  life-size  marble 
bust  by  Chantrey,  formerly  belonging  to  the 
Commissioners  of  Sewers  of  Westminster  and 
part  of  Middlesex,  and  now  the  property  of 
the  London  (bounty  Council. 

Saunders,  who  does  not  appear  to  have  had 
ftn  extensive  practice  as  an  architect,  was  for 
twenty-eight  years  the  chairman  of  the  Cora- 
tniaHtoners  of  Sewers  for  Westminster  and 
tert  of  Middlesex.  He  was  a  Fellow  of  the 
-o^^al  Society  and  of  the  Society  of  Anti- 
^QsrieBi  bat  aoea  not  appear  to  have  been  a 


member  of  the  Royal  Institute  of  British 
Architects,  which  was  incorporated  by  royal 
charter  in  1837  under  the  auspices  of  Earl 
Grey.  He  published  in  1805  a  pamphlet  con- 
demning the  use  of  Flemish  bond  in  brick- 
work, and  contributed  some  papers  to 
Archoeologia  between  1811  and  1833,  which 
were  reprinted.  His  paper  on  the  extent  of 
Westminster  at  various  periods  (Archceologia, 
vol.  xxvi.)  is  interesting  reading  for  an  anti- 
quary. John  Hebb. 

The  late  Mr.  George  Murray  Smith 
AND  the  Authors  for  whom  he  Published 
—The  daily  and  the  weeklv  press  have  ren- 
dered fitting  tribute  to  tnis  eminent  pub- 
lisher, and  the  notice  in  your  last  number 
does  well  to  refer  to  his  generosity  and 
kindliness.  His  relationship  with  his  authors 
was  not  a  mere  question  of  £  s,  d,  but  in 
many  cases  became  one  of  intimate  friend- 
ship. This  had  an  influence  throughout  the 
entire  establishment,  and  it  has  often  been 
my  privilege  to  hear  members  of  his  staflF 
speak  of  the  authors  whose  works  were  being 
published  b^  the  firm  in  terms  almost  affec- 
tionate. This  was  notably  so  in  the  case  of 
Robert  Browning  and  James  Payn*  who,  like 
Dickens,  was  "a  model  editor.  What  Mr. 
Payn  wrote  of  "The  Master,"  in  his  post- 
humous article  in  the  Cf/rnhtll  Magazine  of 
November,  1899,  *An  Editor  and  some  Con- 
tributors,' may  well  be  applied  to  himself: 
"All  men  of  letters  were  akin  to  him,  and 
the  humblest  writer,  provided  he  could  show 
himself  fitted  for  the  calling  he  had  chosen, 
was  as  a  younger  brother.'* 

Those  who  Knew  Mr.  Smith  will  readily 
join  in  the  testimony,  Quoted  in  the  Aca- 
demy of  last  week,  whicn  Sir  John  Millais 
wrote  on  a  slate  when  he  was  dying :  **The 
kindest  man  and  the  best  gentleman  I  have 
had  to  deal  with."  N.  S.  S. 


We  must  request  correspondents  desiring  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct.  

J.  G.  Lemaistre.— The  enclosed  question 
has  been  addressed  to  us  by  one  of  our  con- 
tributors, who  has  asked  that  it  be  submitted 
to  you  for  publication  in  *N.  &  Q.'  should 
you  judge  it  advisable.  He  keenly  desires  a 
reply. 

**J.    G.    LEMAISTKfl;    W)!^    VOXMA^   *K^KSaS»^KS< 

1801.— Pourraitron  io\ucn\t  cv'^^^n^>i\«^T«Q»«v^«ai^^^^ 
biographiquea  but  co  vo^MS^ut  %ii\jLBKa^oco^\^«^<!R«»«* 


308 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    (9»s.viLApim;,!».woi. 


sivement  pabli^ :  *  A  Rough  Sketch  of  Modern  Paris 

written  during  the  last  Two  Months  of  1801  and 

the  first  Five  of  1802'  (London,  1"  Edition  1802, 
2«  1803,  1  vol.  in-8«),  et  *  Travels  after  the  Peace  of 
Amiens  through  Parts  of  France,  Switzerland. 
Italy,  and  Germany,  1806,'  3  vol.  in-8°.— Gomboust. 

If  you  should  think  well  to  accede  to  his 
request  the  Interviddiaire  would  be  very 
grateful.  George  Montoroueil. 

Blanche  Fane,  a  charming  actress,  was  at 
the  Hay  market  Theatre  in  1856  and  January, 
1857.  and  was  the  original  "Little  Treasure*' 
in  tne  piece  so  namea.  She  was  a  beautiful 
woman  and  a  good  actress.  Are  any  par- 
ticulars concerning  her  life  or  her  domestic 
career  obtainable  ?  H.  A.  Bulley. 

Junior  Conservative  Club. 

Pliny.— Which  is  the  best  translation  (for 
scientific  purposes)of  the '  Historia  Naturalis '  ? 

Megan. 

[We  know  of  no  complete  and  satisfactory  trans- 
lation. We  have  ourselves  used  that  of  Philemon 
Holland,  2  vols.,  1601.] 

Passage  in  Pope.— Where  in  Pope's  works 
may  the  following  passage  be  founa  ? — 
The  flying  rumour  gathered  as  it  rolled, 
Scarce  anything  was  sooner  heard  than  told  ; 
And  all  who  heard  it  added  something  new. 

Inquirer. 
[No  such  passage  is  in  the  '  Concordance.'   Do  you 
know  it  to  be  by  that  poet  ?] 

The  "  Flying  Dutchman."— Can  you  put 
me  in  the  way  of  finding  the  original  story 
of  the  "Flying  Dutchman"  or  "Phantom 
Ship"?  William  Newall. 

City  of  London  Club,  Old  Broad  Street,  E.C. 

[Consult  *  N.  &  Q.,'  8*>»  S.  ix.  448;  X.  60;  Scott's 
'Hokeby,'  note  on  canto  ii.  stanza  xi. ;  and  *  Cham- 
bers's Encyclopaedia'  under  *  Flying  Dutchman.'] 

Celtic  Schedules  of  the  1901  Census.— I 
know  that  these  schedules  have  been  issued 
in  Welsh  forms.  Were  schedules  in  the  other 
Celtic  languages  used  in  the  Highlands  and 
islands  of  Scotland,  in  Man,  and  in  the  west 
and  south  of  Ireland  ?  I  should  like  to  have 
information  on  this  subject ;  and  if  readers 
of  '  N.  &  Q.'  could  send  me  specimens  of  these 
Celtic  schedules,  I  should  highly  appreciate 
the  favour.  I  already  possess  the  Welsh 
form.  H.  Gaidoz. 

22,  Rue  Servandoni,  Paris  (VI«). 


Salogast,  and  Bodogast  were  founders  of 
the  Salic  law.    In  Larousse,  under  the  head 

of  Salic,  Gast  de  is  mentioned.    With 

William  the  Conqueror  came  a  knight  called 
Prendergast.  In  the  roll  of  Battle  Abbey  is 
Preuerlirlegast.    Sir    Maurice    do    Prender- 

?;ast  went  to  Ireland  with  Strongbow,  after 
ounding  an  hospital  for  Knights  of  St.  John 
at  Haverfordwest ;  he  afterwards  became 
prior  of  Kilmainham,  near  Dublin. 

H.  Prendergast. 

MacLeay  Family.— Can  any  of  your  readers 
give  me  information  as  to  the  ancestors  of 
Dr.  Kenneth  MacLeay,  Oban,  who  married 
in  1800  Flora  MacDonald,  granddaughter  of 
MacDonald  of  Keappoch,  sixteentn  chief, 
killed  at  Culloden  ? 

Louisa  Wallace-Jamks. 

Tyne  House,  Haddington,  N.B. 

William  Tierney  Clark.— Has  this  emi- 
nent engineer,  the  designer  of  Hammersmith 
Bridge,  left  any  papers  ;  and,  if  sa  in  whose 
possession  are  they  at  present  ?      L.  L.  K. 

"Quod  mortui  non  mordent."— This  is 
given  in  Gordon's  *  Scots  AflEairs '  as  a  "  Latin 
politicall  maxime''  closely  connected  with 
"  Abscindantur  qui  nos  perturbant."  This 
latter  is  surely  a  reminiscence  of  Gal.  v.  12, 
which  is  in  the  Vulgate  "  Utinam  et  abscin- 
dantur  qui  vos  con  turban  t."  But  from  what 
source  is  the  former  taken  ?    J.  Willcock. 

Lerwick. 

RavenjS  of  St.  Eustatius.— That  a  fainilv 
named  Kavene  lived  in  this  little  Dutch 
island  of  the  West  Indies  during  the  middle 
of  the  eighteenth  century  is  known  to  me. 
Moreover,  I  have  heard  that  one  of  its 
members  was  the  governor.  Can  any  one 
give  me  his  Christian  name,  time,  and  the 
native  seat  of  his  family  ?  C. 

Hearth-Money,  1662-89.  —  The  archives 
of  the  Record  Office  contain  no  collectors' 
returns  for  Lancashire  and  Cheshire  later 
than  1674.  Can  any  of  your  readers  explain 
this  deficiency  ?  Was  it  not  compulsory  on 
the  farmers  of  the  tax  to  send  lists  of  names, 
&c.,  to  the  revenue  officers  in  London  1 

H.  Johnson. 


Henry    Harris,    M.D.Edin.  —  Can   Irish 

I  readers  give  any  information  re^ardin^  the 

"  Gast."— Will    you    kindly    explain    the   parentage  and  family  of  this  distinguished 

origin  and  meaning  of  the  terminal  "gast"?   officer  of    the  East    India    Company's   ser- 

It  is  found  in  the  name  Arbogast,  a  Gallic  i  vice?    The  old  *Army  Lists'  show  that  he 

£reneral  in  the  fourth  century  (see  Larousse's  ,  was    appointed    assistant -surgeon    of    the 

^Dictionary  *),    A  M.  Arbogast  now  Uvea  at  [  Company's  Madras  establishment  on  4  July, 

Men  tone,  in  the  south 


M.  Arbogast  now  Uvea  at  I ' 
ath  of  Franco.  WindoRaat,\ 


Windogaat,  \  Vl^^  buuql  ai\«t  ^i^\w^m>3.^V!L«Arvice  roae  to  the 


9»8.viLAi.Kii.2o.i»w.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


309 


mok  of  samor  member  of  the  Medical  Boards 
Madras,  where  ho  died  in  1812.  The  registers 
of  tbe  University  of  Edinburgh  show  that 
he  attended  claiises  after  matriculation  from 
1776  to  1780,  when  he  graduated  as  M .  D,  The 
records,  however,  are  very  meagre,  and  do 
not  mention  more  than  his  name  and  that  he 
came  from  Queen's  County,  Ireland,  In  the 
graduation  li«t  h©  h  enterad  as  "Hen,  Harris^ 
Hibernia./*  and  the  subject  of  his  theain  **  De 
morbis  virginum/'  itc.  A  copy  of  this  is  in 
the  British  Museum. 

Henry  Neville  Haebis, 
Horwood,  £p«am  Eoad,  Guildford. 

GoRONATioJf  Stone.  —  Where  can  an 
authentic  account  of  the  Coronation  Stone 
of  Westminster  Abbey  be  found  ? 

J,  H,  Rivett-Caenac. 

Schloisa  Wildeck,  Aargftu,  Switzerland. 

mee  I'*  a  ix.  l^  328;  2™i  S.  v.  316:  4**^  a  i.  101, 
30& ;  e*^  S.  liL  449 ;  7"*  H,  I  9,  15.  Much  itifortna- 
tioQ  is  supplied  at  the  first  two  referencea,] 

The  Barclays  of  Mathers.— In  the  various 
pedigrees  of  this  family  it  h  stated  that  they 
are  descend eil  from  John  de  Berkeley » brother 
of  Humphry  de  Berkeley,  and  that  John,  dis- 
pleased with  the  liberality  of  hia  brother  and 
niece,  turned  the  monks  of  Arbroath  out  of 
certain  lands,  but  was  obliged,  with  e<»nsent 
of  his  son,  to  give  them  the  mill  of  Conveth, 
Ac,  Where  i^a  the  record  of  this  agreement 
to  be  found  ?  It  is  not  in  the  register  of 
Arbroath  a^  printed  by  the  Bannatyne  Club. 

D,  M,  R. 

'Letters  from  Ikma  akb  Kashmir/ 
written  in  1S70  (London,  George  Bell  *fe  Bons, 
1874X— I  shall  be  glad  to  have  the  name  of 
the  author  of  this  work,  which  appears  to 
be  absolutely  anonymous.  The  letters  were 
from  a  son  to  his  mtherf  and^  I  pre^ume^  are 
authentic,  ,        Ralph  Thomas. 

Richard  Hkrne,  Sheriff  of  Lokuoh, 
161S-19,— Can  any  of  your  readers  furnish 
the  name  of  the  company  to  which  this 
nhcriff  belonged  ?  Mr.  Cok^ne,  in  ^The  Lord 
Mayors  and  Sheriffs  of  London,  1601-25,' 
states  that  it  is  unknown.  E.  C. 

**  Lady  **  and  "  Gentlbwomak."— Is  there  a 

raarked  difference^  in  popular  and  colloquial 

language,    between       lady*'    and    "gentle- 

*oiBan/*    or    can    they    be    used    indiscri- 

minately    if    applied    to   a    well  -  educated 

^oman  of  refinmi  manners  ?    From  ordinary 

English  dictionaries,   whore   synonyms   are 

.Compared  and  distinguished,  I  tail  t-o  gather 

^formation.    The  *U3£ford   Hiyfconcal  Die- 

Hooar^r/  oae  ca^noot  but  rogmt  to  find,  doe« 


not  deal  with  synonymous  words  and  their 
differentiation,  as  lying  outside  its  historical 
sccipe.  L.  G. 

Wright  of  Hops  ford.— Wanted  date  of 
death  of  Thomaa  Wright,  of  Hop«ford,  co, 
Warwick,  who  was  appointed  a  trustee  of 
Rugby  School  in  1602,  and  again  in  1614.  In 
what  parish  is  Hops  ford  1 

A,  T,  MiuHEii. 

Rugby. 

[There  i»  »  Hnpsford  in  North  Warwicksbire, 
iix  and  a  half  niilos  from  Cov&ntry.] 

Crosse  Haxl.— Crosse  Hall  is  mentioned 
in  Cros  ton's  *  County  Familiei^  of  Lancashire 
and  Cheshire'  (1887)  as  being  the  place 
where  the  armour  of  the  county  of  Lancaster 
way  deposited  at  the  time  of  the  threjttened 
Spanish  invasion.  Is  it  Crosse  Hail,  Chorley, 
formerly  the  residence  of  the  Cross  family 
of  Liverpool,  afterwards  used  by  Cobden  as 
a  bleach  -  works,  and  now  divided  into  cot- 
tages 1  Edward  McEnicht, 

Chorley  Public  Library. 

The  '* Crown"  behind  the  Royal  Ex* 
CHANi^E.— I  shaU  be  much  obliged  if  any^  of 
your  readers  can  give  rae  any  information 
about  this  tavern,  which  is  mentioned  by 
Pepys  as  the  meeting  -  place  of  the  Royal 
Society  Club.  In  172^  a  Masons'  lodge, 
afterwards  known  ats  the  Tyrian,  met  here. 
1  particularly  wish  to  know  if  there  is  any 
picture  of  the  building  in  existence. 

James  M.  Bmai.l. 

Wtiat  minster. 

Ban  I  EL  TuviLL.— Can  readers  of  *N,  kO,^ 
give  any  particulars  concerning  himl  In 
1608  appeared  *  E-siJaie^  Politicke  and  Morall/ 
by  D.  T.  Gent  In  the  dedication  "To  the 
Right  Honorable  and  vertnous  Ladie,  tlie 
Ladie  Anne  Harington,*'  the  author  speaks 
of  **  such  idle  boure»,  as  remained  free  to  me 
from  your  impUjymenta."  Can  this  furnish 
a  clue  to  his  identification!    In   1609   was 

gubliahed  another  volume  of  *  Eajiayas,'  by 
K  T.,  and  in  1*329  yet  another,  entitled  *Vade 
Mecum :  a  Manuall  of  Essayes,  Morall, 
Theologicalh'  by  D,  T,,  followed  by  another 
edition  in  1638.  These  are  all  generally 
attributed  to  Daniel  Tuvill,  though  the  late 
Rev.  Thomas  Corser  thought  the  first  named 
came  from  the  pen  of  D.  Turberville,  son  of 
the  poet-  Who  was  Daniel  Tuviil^  and  on 
what  grounds  are  these  works  said  to  be  by 
him  ?  C.  D. 

*  Oxford  UKivEKSitx  Ckix^^^va.!— 'SR\^3ak''^ 
the  date  of  the  firat  m\x^  ol  t\v^  ^^^.\^\^^A^^^:i.^ 
which  nearly  Bvery  tvea\iiT&».tk  ajsrA  ^/^  V^^* 


310 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9»«»s.vilapril2o.moi. 


chase  for  the  pleasure  of  seeing  his  own  name 
in  print,  ana  for  constant  reference,  and 
which  nearly  every  club  and  reading-room 
buys  annually?  An  old  friend  of  mine, 
recently  deceased,  was  the  fortunate  possessor 
of  a  complete  set,  and  I  can  remember  a 
bookseller  in  Oxford  offered  me  a  set  for 
3/.  lOs. ;  but  it  is  always  a  risky  thing  to 
buy  any  very  long  set  of  books.  A  study  of 
the  book  is  interesting  to  an  old  Oxonian, 
showing  the  immense  changes  that  have 
come  over  the  University  and  the  great 
increase  of  its  members.  The  late  Dr.  Bliss, 
Registrar  of  the  University  for  many  years, 
once  told  me  that  not  more  than  half  of 
those  who  entered  ever  graduated.  One, 
however,  finds  much  useful  information 
omitted  which  used  to  have  a  place  in  former 
years. 

On  the  authority  of  Gunning,  *  Remi- 
niscences of  Cambridge,'  vol.  ii.  p.  43  (1855), 
the  *  Cambridge  University  Calendar*  was 
first  publisheof  in  1796,  and  with  the  ex- 
ception of  a  year  has  continued  annually. 
John  Pickford,  M.A. 

Newbourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

[The  first  publication  under  that  name  belongs  to 
1810.1 

Engush  Members  of  Parliament.— May 
I  inform  your  readers  that  I  am  collecting 
materials  for  a  book  on  *  Members  of  Parlia- 
ment for  England,  1708-1832';  and  that  I 
should  be  glad  to  receive  from  those  interested 
in  the  subject  any  biographical  or  genealogi- 
cal particulars  relating  to  such  members  of 
their  families  as  have  sat  in  Parliament? 

W.  R.  Williams. 

Talybont,  Brecknock. 


EXECUTIONS  AT  TYBURN  AND 
ELSEWHERE. 
(9^  S.  vii.  121,  210,  242,  282.) 
I  uiGHLY  appreciate  Mr.  Loftie's  courteous 
reference  to  my  paper,  and  am  glad  to  have 
elicited  his  opinions  on  the  subject  of  Tyburn, 
which  in  connexion  with  London  history  has 
doubtless  had  his  special  study.  I  am  anxious 
to  have  opinions  when  they  varv,  and  in  the 
meantime  reserve  a  personal  decision.    The 
crux  just  now  is  the  extent  of  the  manor  of 
Tyburn,  which  question  1  have  tentatively 
touched  in  dealing  with  my  immediate  sub- 
ject, the  executions. 

Certainly,  in  connexion  with  the  executions. 
Tyburn  in  my  mind  has  been  a  bamVet,  aad 
thatt  I  tbinkf  ia  the  usual  conception.    "iliL. 


LoFTiE,  however,  thinks  it  almost  certain 
that  in  1196,  when  Longbeard  was  han^, 
there  was  no  such  town  or  village,  and  that 
the  chronicler  by  "  prope  Tiburnam  "  meant 
near  Tyburn  stream.  The  "rough,  furzy," 
desolate  tract,  with  the  few  sombre  emis 
growing  alon^  the  brook,  was  doubtless  an 
appropriate  situation  for  the  gallows.  Yet 
not  far  off  may  have  lain  the  hamlet  of 
Tyburn,  of  which  1  cannot  but  think  the 
little  church  of  St.  John  an  indication.  True 
it  is  that  Domesday  has  no  mention  of  a 
church  on  Tyburn  Manor,  but  we  have  evi- 
dence of  one  a  little  more  than  a  century 
after  the  Survey.  And  if  a  church  was  found 
there  in  1198  by  William  of  St.  Mary  when  he 
became  bishop,  is  it  not  very  possible  that  the 
building  and  also  a  group  of  houses  were 
there  but  two  years  earlier— that  is  to  say, 
in  1196,  when  poor  Lonff beard  suffered  t  For 
it  follows  naturally,  I  think,  that  the  church 
had  been  built  to  serve  an  adjacent  hamlet ; 
and  although  a  place  of  worship  may  have 
stood  solitarily  by  the  wayside  for  the  service 
of  the  few  scattered  agriculturists  of  the  dis- 
trict, a  church  is,  I  submit,  more  usually 
found  with  a  village.  Even  if  two  centuries 
later  (a.d.  1400)  St.  John's  stood  alone,  we 
need  not  conclude  that  it  had  been  originally 
thus  isolated.  The  villagers  may  have  moved 
away  from  the  dangerous  high  road  for  the 
same  reasons  which  led  them  to  petition  for 
the  removal  of  their  church.  Tnus  I  take 
the  church  to  be  the  natural  and  usual  evi- 
dence of  a  village  which  may  have  existed  in 
1196,  even,  perhaps,  two  or  three  years  before 
the  building  of  the  church  ;  and  consequently 
it  seems  to  roe  moi*e  probable  that  Dean 
Ralph's  "prope  Tiburnam "  meant  near 
Tyburn  village  than  near  Tyburn  stream. 

The  extension  of  Tyburn  Manor  is  a  more 
important  question  than  that  of  hamlet  or  no 
hamlet,    and    though  *  feeling    insufficiently 
qualified  to  enter  on  it,  I  am  bound  to  offsr 
Mr.  Loftie  such  evidence  as  appears  to  ine 
to  support  a  conjecture  that  the  manor  did 
not  entirely  lie  east  of  the  bourne  (that  is  to 
say    east  of   Stratford   PlaceX  but  that  it  « 
covered  ground  between  Edgware  Road  and    i 
the  Kensington  boundary.    The  evidence  is  -« 
not  of  my  own  finding,  out  will  be  chiefly  ^ 
found  in  the  very  bold,  but  valuable  litUess 
book  *  Paddington  Past  and  Present^*  by  Wm — 
Robins,  1853.     He  (p.  11)  quotes  a  Privates 
Act  of  1733  (not "  1734  ";  it  can  be  seen  at  th€^ 
British  Museum),  by  which  the  Earl  of  Craveir:^ 
obtained  land  (now  Craven   Hill)  at  Bays-  -■ 
water  for  a  Pest  Field,  in  substitution  ro^ 
otVvet  laiid>  bearing  the  same  name»  whidi  ir^ 
y\Q^l  \v^\^Q»CL  '^TQvA'^  Vi «»  former  md  ii^ 


9*  S.VU.  April  20. 1901.)      NOTES  AND    QUERIES. 


311 


the  pariah  of  St.  James,  Westminster,  for  the 
burial  of  persons  who  had  died  of  the  plague. 
The  purchase  of  1733  consisted  of 

'*  two  messuages  situate  in  the  Parish  of  Padding- 
ton  in  the  County  of  Middlesex,  being  parcel  of  the 
Manor  of  Tyburn,  and  called  Byara's  Watering 

Place And  also  six  acres  of  land  lying  and  being 

in  the  common  field   of  Westboum adjoining 

said  messuages,  and  also  a  piece  containing  three 
acres." 

Now  this  land  said  to  be  in  the  Manor  of 
Tyburn  is  three-quarters  of  a  mile  west  of 
the  Edgware  Road,  nearly  a  mile  and  a  half 
wast  of  Tyburn  stream  (or  Stratford  Place), 
and  but  half  a  mile  east  of  the  Kensington 
boundary.  Is  the  description  of  the  site  a 
mistake — one  of  the  miswordings  which  have 
given  rise  to  the  proverbial  facility  of  driving 
a  coach  and  six  through  an  Act  of  Parlia- 
ment t  When  the  driving  is  achieved  I  will 
recognize  its  skill,  but  in  the  meantime  there 
stands  the  Act  with  its  description  of  the 
site,  and  although  one  instance  may  not 
suffice  to  warrant  a  decision,  we  cannot  but 
think  of  the  possibility  of  there  being  estate 
deeds  hidden  away  in  lawyers'  offices  which 
might  reveal  the  same  description  of  locdity. 

The  Local  Act  of  1763  for  the  sale  of  land 
in  Paddington  to  serve  as  burial-ground  for 
the  parish  of  St.  George,  Hanover  Square, 
will  not  oflFer  equal  evidence  to  those  who 
imagine  that  the  name  Tyburn  was  brought 
to  the  locality  by  the  gallows,  because  the 
ground  in  this  case  is  scarcelv  three  hundred 
yards  west  of  the  corner  of  Edgware  Road 
where  the  gallows  were  erected.  The  Act, 
however,  describes  the  land  as  ^'  lying  at  the 
west  end  of  the  field  called  Tyburn  Field," 
and  there  is  also  '*a  piece  of  waste  lying 
between  the  highway  leading  from  London 
to  Uxbridge."  Faulkner,  in  *  History  of 
Kensington '  (p.  413),  recites  the  proceeclings 
of  Parliament  m  1652  relative  to  the  sale  of 
Hyde  Park,  and  there  is  mention  of  a  parcel 
of  enclosed  ground  commonly  called  "Tyburn 
Meadow."  As  it  heis  "the  great  rcmd  to 
Acton"  on  the  north,  it  scarcely  seems 
identical  with  the  above  "Tyburn  Field"; 
but  again,  in  1652,  we  have  the  name  thus 
far  west. 

Mr.  Loftie  advances  against  the  very 
tentatively  suggested  manorial  gallows  of 
the  Veres  (he  does  not  hold  to  the  **  De ") 
that  they  were  never  lords  of  Tyburn,  but 
held  the  manor  under  the  Abbess  of  Barking. 
And  so  said  Lysons  a  century  ago  without 
giving  authority  for  the  statement.  The 
abbess  had  the  manor  at  the  time  of  the 
Domesday  Survey,  but  did  she  continue  to 
iiold  it  mttAi  the  suppression  of  the  hovL^  1 


If  so  I  shall  be  glad  of  the  pi-oof,  as 
the  several  Inquisitions  p  m.  mentioning 
Tyboume  do  not  indicate  the  fact ;  and  in 
the  Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls  (a.d.  1281-92, 

L173)  I  find  that  in  1285  Robert  de  Vere, 
rl  of  Oxford,  had  the  king's  "  promise  "  of 
the  reversion  of  manors  which  he  had  granted 
on  the  marriage  of  his  daughter  Joan  to 
William  de  Warrene,  viz.,  the  manors  of 
Medineham,  Ty bourne,  &c.,  "aW  held  in 
chief:' 

I  have  thought  also  that  there  might  be 
indication  of  the  proximity  of  Tyburn  to 
Kensington  in  the  Inquisition  p.m.  of 
William  Essex,  20  Edward  IV.,  1480.  He 
had  acquired  West  Town,  one  of  the  Ken- 
sington manors,  in  1454  (Loftie,  *  Kensington,* 
p.  64),  and  by  the  Inquisition  his  manors 
were  found  to  be  "Westowne  in  Kensing- 
ton, Brompton,  Chelsea,  Tyburn,  and  West- 
burn."  These  five  are  contiguous  and  in 
sequence,  unless  we  find  Tyburn  out  of  place 
and  bx)k  for  it  far  away  from  Kensington, 
east  of  the  brook  known  by  the  same  name. 
The  greater  part  of  Essex's  estate,  if  not  all, 
had  certainly  belonged  to  the  Veres,  and  in 
this  Inquisition,  as  in  others,  there  is  no 
connexion  indicated  between  Tyburn  and 
the  Abbey  of  Barking. 

But  probably  I  shall  be  corrected  on  these 
points,  and  I  am  willing  to  learn—indeed, 
much  desiring  that  difficulties  should  be 
reconciled.  It  tends  towards  the  western 
conception  of  Tyburn  Manor  that  unless  it 
was  a  fact  the  ground  between  Edgware 
Road  and  Kensington  is  in  the  Domesday 
record  unaccounted  for,  Paddington  and 
Westbourne,  as  manors,  not  then  existing. 
Yet  if  Tyburn  covered  that  ground  there 
would  be  the  awkward  interposition  of  Lile- 
stone  Manor,  leaving  an  outlying  portion  of 
Tyburn  eastward  of  the  brook  (t.c,  between 
Stratford  Place  and  Tottenham  Court  Road). 
For  it  is  a  settled  point,  I  believe,  that  Lile- 
stone  extended  southward  to  the  high  road 
(Oxford  Street).  Are  we  sure,  however,  that 
it  was  so  at  Domesday  time?  It  was  not 
until  long  afterwards  that  the  Knights 
Hospitallers  got  the  manor,  and  as  they 
appear  to  have  extended  their  domain 
northward,  i.e.,  to  Kilbum,  may  they  not 
also  have  stretched  it  southward  ? 

The  grant  of  lease  by  Prior  Docwra  to 
Blennernasset,  in  1512,  of  land  which  ulti- 
mately became  the  Portman  estate,  appears 
to  have  applied  to  a  distinct  portion  of  the 
Hospitallers'  domain.  This  grant  (quoted  in 
Thomas  Smith's  *  Marylebone^'  1833>  wit.\\QMX» 
reference,  for  'wV\\c\v  V  AkOvM  \«i  %x^\ftvVaS>i 
contaiuii  aevevaV  mV>Gt^i&\A.\i^  ^^^-xk»M^^«^  Ss^- 


312 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    i»-»s.vu.APBiLao,i9oi. 


cludinff  "Great  and  Little  Gibbet  Fields." 
Poasiblj'  the  document  itself  might  afford 
further  indication  of  the  position  of  these 
fields.  Could  they  have  been  the  ordinary 
place  of  public  execution  ?  If  so,  then  it  was 
m  Lilestone,  not  in  Ty  bourne,  and  the  fact 
might  be  thought  to  support  Mr.  Loftie's 
reading  of  "prope  Tiburnam  "  as  near  the 
Tyburn,  the  dividing  stream  between  the 
manors.  And  yet  the  chronicler's  words 
would  still  apply  to  a  village  of  Tyburn,  if 
there  were  one.  W .  L.  Rutton. 

It  is  very  important,  as  Me.  Loftie  points 
out,  that  the  different  senses  in  which  the 
word  "  Tyburn "  is  used  should  be  kept  dis- 
tinct. It  is  equally  important  that  each 
should  rest  upon  unaoubted  evidence.  Will 
Mr.  Loftie  be  so  good  as  to  give  his  authority 
for  the  following  statements  ?—l.  That  the 
manor  of  Tyburn  at  the  time  of  the  Domes- 
day Survey  extended  from  Rugmere  westward 
to  the  brook  of  Tyburn.  2.  That  Tybum  was 
a  brook  which  ran  from  Hampstead  to  the 
Thames.  3.  That  the  parish  of  Tyburn 
included  the  manor  of  Tyburn,  east  of  the 
brook,  and  the  manor  of  Lilestone.  west  of 
the  brook,  but  east  of  Edgware  Roaa. 

H.  A.  Harben. 


Perelle's  Etchings  (9"»  S.  vii.  287).— The 
etchings  of  landscape  scenery  with  figures 
referred  to  by  Mr.  Charles  L.  Bell  are  pro- 
bably the  work  of  Nicolas  Perelle  (bom  1638). 
He  was  the  son  of  the  celebrated  engraver 
G;abriel  Perelle,  and  is  the  painter  of  various 
historical  and  landscape  subjects,  but  better 
known  by  his  etchings. 

Emilla.  F.  S.  Dilke. 

Glamis  Mystery  (9"»  S.  vii.  288).  — The 
article  is  probably  one  by  Mrs.  Oliphant  in 
Blackwood;  but  there  have  been  later  articles 
elsewhere.  D. 

Latin  Motto  (9^*»  S.  vi.  469;  vii.  12).— I 
venture  the  following  solution.  Filiatio  is 
dog-Latin,  formed  from  M.E.  fylen^  A.-S. 
fi/lan^ to  foul,  to  pollute.  "Lustrum  sine 
fiiliatione  "  then  would  mean  lustre  without 
defilement.  Dr.  G.  Krueoer. 

Berlin. 

Vanishing  London  (9^*»  S.  vi.  221j  331, 
351,  472). — The  most  probable  derivation  of 
foutonr  seems  to  me  to  be  from  the  French 
foutre^  the  well-known  abusive  term  of  a 
very  general  meaning.  Un  jean  foutre  is 
a  naicahua  worthless  tellow. 

Dr.  Q.  Kb.\3i&qi&b« 

Berlin, 


*  The  Pilgrim's  Progress':  Early  Edition 
IN  French  (9^^  S.  vii.  167).— There  were 
earlier  editions  of  translations  than  those 
enumerated  in  the  Editor's  note  at  the  above 
reference.  In  1879  I  picked  up  at  Edinburgh 
a  copy  (which  is  now  m  the  Bodleian  Library) 
of  an  edition  which  is  unknown  to  Offor  and 
other  bibliographers,  and  is  evidently  the 
translation  by  a  Fleming  noticed  in  the  pre- 
face to  the  book  possessed  by  Mr.  King.  It 
is  a  small  duodecimo,  containing  pp.  302, 
preceded  by  the  publisher's  "Privilegje" 
trom  the  States  of  Holland  and  West 
Friesland,  and  a  preface,  and  followed  at  the 
end  by  a  "Chante  de  Triomfe  d'une  ame 
arrivee  en  le  gloire  celeste."  The  full  title 
runs  thus : — 

"Voyage  d*un  Chrestien  vers  TEtemi^,  ecrit  en 
Anglois,  par  Monsieur  Bunjan,  F.M.  [i.e.  ,^deU 
minifitre]  en  Bedtfort;  et  nouvellement  traduiten 
Francois.  Avec  Figures.  A  Amsterdam  chez  Jean 
Boekholt,  Libraire  pres  de  la  Bourse,  1685.  Avec 
Privilegie." 
The  "  Figures  "  are  wanting  in  this  copy. 

The  translator  speaks  in  his  pi-eface  of  the 
author  as  follows  : — 

"Celuy  qui  Ta  compos6,  est  Monsieur  Jean 
Bunjan,  encore  a  present  digne  k  Fidele  Ministre 
en  Bedtfort,  ville  d*Angleterre ;  un  homme  d*une 
vio  singulierement  pieuse,  Si  devote,  a  qui  comme 
a  Demetrius,  duquel  ^aint  Jean  parle  au  3.  de  Su 
Jean  vers  12,  tous  rendent  tSmoignage:  qui  en  oe 
petit  Livre  non  moins  qu'es  autres  de  ses  dents, 
lesquels  eont  divers,  &  plusieurs  d'iceux  escrits  a 
la  mSme  fa<5on  que  cettuicy,  fait  voir  une  sagesse 
singuliere,  une  experience  extreme,  &  une  vue  pene- 
trante  es  choses  spirituelles." 

This  eulogium  so  much  resembles  that  which 
Mr.  King  quotes  that  it  would  seem  that  the 
later  tran^ator  was  not  above  borrowing 
from  the  predecessor  whom  he  condemned. 

W.  D.  Macray. 

The  Title  of  Esquire  (9'»»  S.  vi.  387,  452, 
470;  vii.  33,  94,  236).— The  term  '*gent" 
occurring  in  records  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, if  not  quite  amounting  to  proof  that 
the  person  so  described  was  entitled  to 
armorial  bearings,  at  least  furnishes  strong 
evidence  of  his  oeing  so  entitled — evidence 
which  could  not  be  set  aside  but  by  proof  of 
the  contrary.       John  Hobson  Matthews. 

Town  Hall,  Cardiff. 

Boca  Chica  (9"»  S.  vii.  69,  154).— Th€= 
following  extract  explains  how  this  name^ 
became  attached  to  a  portion  of  the  port  oWt 
Blyth,  Northumberland.  It  is  taken  fronna 
Wallace's  *  History  of  Blyth,'  1869,  p.  219  :- 

"  About  this  time  (a.d.  1745)  Boca  Chica  receiver 
its  outlandish  name.    Two  seamen  belonging  to  tj 
V\«k)c»  \vbA  ^«tv^  on  board  a  ship  of  war  u 


V 


9-.  8.  viL  apeil  20, 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


313 


port  in  South  America,  in  1741.  The  entrance  into 
the  harbour  was  termed  Boca  Chica  (t.e.,  little 
mouth),  and  was  defended  by  several  forU,  the 
whole  of  which  were  taken  by  the  British  forcea. 
Ihe  seamen  having  returned  home,  in  recountini; 
i5  «gf>*oit8  at  the  siege,  so  frequently  used  tlie 
words  Boca  Chica,  that  one  of  their  companiona 
jocularlygave  the  name  to  the  place  of  their  re&i 
dence.  The  new  name  took  with  the  public,  wha 
at  once  adopted  it,  and  to  this  day  Boca  Chica  hau 
continued  to  be  the  name  of  the  Northern  portion 
of  the  High  Pau^." 

R.  Oliver  Heslop. 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 


Robert  Johnson,  Sheriff  of  London,  1617 
(9^  S.  vii.  228).— Being  interested  in  the  bio 
Rrayahy  and  genealogy  of  the  Lord  Mayors 
and  Sheriflfe  of    London  from    the  earliest 
period  down  to  at  least  the  Revolution  of 
1688,  and    having  made  collections  on  the 
subiect  chiefly  from  original  sources,  I  wa.-^ 
enabled  with  particular  pleasure  to  render 
some  assistance  (con  amore)  to  my  esteemed 
friend  Mr.  G.  E.  Cokayne  in  compiling  that 
masterly  piece  of  sound  and  solid  work  to 
which    your    correspondent    alludes.    Con 
fidering  the  elaborate  nature  of  the  details, 
Its  author  could  hardly  have  failed  to  meet 
with    difficulties    therein  — and    sometimes 
where   least    expected  —  on    points    which 
seemed  to   defy  even  the  most  exhaustive 
r^earcb  in  elucidation.    This  was  the  case 
with  Robert  Johnson  as  above  (among  others) 
m  certain  respects.    On  referring,  however, 
to  my  copy  of  the  book  (presented  by  the 
author),  the  margins  of  every  page  of  which 
are  covered  with  my  numerous  manuscript 
notes— since  placed  at  Mr.  Cokayne's  disposal 
for  a  second  extended  edition— I  find  that  I 
have  added  most  of  the  information  required 
by  K  C,  to  the  following  effect,  viz. :  This 
^sheriff  was  son  (apparently  the  eldest)    of 
John  Johnson,  of  Goldington,  co.  Bedford,  by 
Jooe,  dau.  of  Thomas  Hand,  of  London  ;  and 
^as  probably  born  and  baptized  at  Golding- 
ton m  1563,  but  this  remains  to  be  verified 
by  an  inspection  of  that  parish  register,  for 
which  the  rector,  who  is  himself  quite  un- 
«ioquainted  with  the  early  handwriting,  has 
^mdly  given  me  permission.    As  to  the  wife, 
J  extract  the  following,  written  in  1633,  from 
^  original  MS.  in  folio— the  Funeral  Work- 
fcpok  and  Genealogical  Collections  of  John 
|aylor,    Herald    Painter,    of    Fleet    Street, 
JiOndon,  which  in  the  early  part  of  the  eigh- 
teenth century  belonged  to  Peter  Le  Neve 
Y^rroyX   being  then   known  as  "Taylor— 
Jol.  IL,    and  was  recently  in  my  possession  : 
Alderman  Johnsons  wife  was  a  Compton  of 
Jpo  same  bowse  "  [le,,  as  "  Saray  d :  of  William 


George  Glapthorne  of  Witlesey  in  the  Isle  of 
Eley  m  the  Co.  Camb:].  Her  Christian  name 
was  Jone^'  and  she  was  married  to  Robert 
Johnson  in  or  about  1595.    I  find  also  that 

she  was  daughter  of Compton  of  Stagden. 

CO.  Bedford.     Possibly  she  died  in  childbed 
of  her  only  daughter,  Martha,  who  was  born 
circa  1596,  and  married  6  September,  1614, 
to  Timothy  Middleton,  of  Stansted  Mount- 
fitchet,  CO.  Essex.    I  am  inclined  to  think 
that  Johnson  resided  in  the  parish  of  St. 
Mary,  Stratford-le-Bow,  co.  Middlesex,  rather 
than  at  St.   Mary-le-Bow,   in    the    City  of 
London.    His  administration  of  17  October. 
1626,  in  P.C.C.  describes  him  in  Latin  as  or 
the  parish  of  "  the  Blessed  Mary  Bowe,"  with- 
out giving  either  "  London  "  or  **  Middlesex." 
According  to  a  letter  to  the  Rev.  Joseph 
Mead,    dated     London,    6    October,     1626, 
''  Alderman  Johnson  died  suddenly  on  Mon- 
day [2  October,  1626],  having  eaten  grapes 
at  Bow,  as  he  was  stepping  into  his  coach." 
His  arms  were  Azure,  a  chevron  between 
three  eagles  volant  or  (Harl.  MS.  1049) ;  but 
those  claimed  by  his  brother's  second  son, 
Robert  Johnson  of  London  (Vintry  Ward), 
grocer,  at  Visit.  Lond.,  1634,  and  not  allowea, 
viz.,  Sa.,  on  a  bend  arg.  three  pheons,  are 
ontirelv  different,  although  somewhat  similar 
to  (ancf  the  crest  the  same  as)  Harvey  of  East 
Ham,  CO.  Essex  (see  Visit,  or  that  co.,  1634). 
This   younger    Robert    Johnson,    however, 
entered  ana  signed  his    pedigree    at    such 
first-named     Visitation.      Burte    (*  General 
Armory ')    gives  the   arms   of   Johnson    of 
Goldington,  co.  Bedford,  as  Az.,  a  chev.  or : 
in  chief  two  eagles  volant,  in  base  a  sun  ot 
the  second.  W.  I.  R.  V. 

Breckenridge  (9"^  S.  vii.  247).— If  Mr. 
James  M.  Breckenridge  will  look  at  the 
Ordnance  Survey  for  Scotland,  he  will  find 
East  and  West  Brackenridge  (not  Brecken- 
ridge) about  two  miles  due  west  of  Strath- 
avon  in  Lanarkshire,  and  some  five  miles 
from  the  historic  Covenanting  field  of  Drum- 
clog  and  the  north-east  Ayrshire  boundary. 
in  all  probability  his  family  came  from  there, 
and  he  should  consult  the  registers  ana 
records  of  the  parish  of  Stratnavon  (pro- 
nounced Straven).  G.  S.  C.  S. 

Sir  Anthony  Brabason  (9"*  S.  vii.  228).— 
Anthony  Brabazon  (not  Brabason),  of  New 
Park,  CO.  Mayo,  was  created  a  baronet  of 
iieland  10  November,  1797,  and  died  3  July, 
1  s03.  The  title  became  extinct  on  the  death 
of  his  son  Sir  William  John  Brabazon 
21  October,  1840.  That  eeutkoiwx  V^iX.  Vw'Ck 
sisters,  viz.,  (1)  A\\ce  m^a.T^^  ^\\o    m^xTv^ 


^^-ompton  of  Jondon  Grocer,    who  married  |  Hercules  SUarpe,  and  \iwi  «.  ^o\x  ^tA  ^w»x^ 


314 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9«»8.  vu.apkil2o.iwl 


William  John  Sharpe,  who  in  1841  took  the 
name  of  Brabazon,  having  inherited  the 
estates  of  that  family ;  and  (2)  Sarah,  Baro- 
ness Teynham,  who  died  without  issue 
28  June,  1854.  G.  E.  C. 

Anthony  Brabazon,  Esq.,  of  Brabazon  Park, 
CO.  Mayo,  was  created  a  baronet  of  Ireland 
10  November,  1797.  He  married  in  1776 
Anna  eldest  daughter  of  the  Right  Hon.  Sir 
Capel  Molyneux,  Bart.,  and  had  a  son  Sir 
William  John  Brabazon,  second  baronet, 
M.P.  for  the  county  of  Mayo,  who  died  un- 
married in  1840,  when  the  title  became 
extinct.  Sir  Anthony  Brabazon's  sister 
Catharine  married  Luke  Higgins,  Esq.,  of 
Castlebar,  co.  Mayo,  and  had  a  son  Hugh 
Higgins,  who,  in  1852,  assumed  by  royal 
licence  the  surname  and  arms  of  Brabazon. 
This  gentleman,  formerly  a  captain  in  the 
15th  Hussars,  married  in  1827  Ellen  Am- 
brosia, youngest  daughter  of  Sir  William 
Henry  Palmer,  Bart.,  of  Palmerstown,  co. 
Mayo,  and  Kenure  Park,  co.  Dublin.  Mr. 
Hugh  Brabazon  died  in  1864.  He  had  two 
sons,  viz.,  Capt.  Luke  Brabazon,  R.A.,  who 
was  foully  murdered  by  the  Chinese  in  1860  ; 
and  the  present  Col.  tfohn  Palmer  Brabazon, 
C.B.,  late  10th  Hussars,  aide-de-camp  to  the 
King.  Refer  to  Burke's  *  Extinct  Baronetage ' 
(1838),  p.  601,  and  to  Burke's  'Landed 
Gentry  ^(1858),  p.  124.  D.  K.  T. 

"Insurrection  "  (d^  S.  vii.  66,  111).— 
*  The   noble    Lord    [John    Russell;! 


no  Die  ix>rd  L<ionn  KussellJ  was  unite 
correct ;  he  used  the  term  [insurrection]  without 
reflection,  which,  although  signifying  illegality  in 
this  country,  in  Hungary  signifiea  wnat  was  legaA 
and  right,  for  when  they  made  a  levy  en  masse^  in 
defence  of  their  liberties,  the  Hungarian  term  used 
was  inmrreclio ;  and  when  a  Hungarian  Diet,  in 
1741,  said,  Vitam  et  sanguinem  pro  rege  iiostro,  that 
was  insurrectio  in  the  Hungarian  sense  of  the  word ; 
that  indeed  was  an  insurrection  in  a  good  sense."— 
Mr.  Bemal  Osborne's  speech  in  the  House  of 
Commons,  21  July,  1849,  Hansard's  *  Parliamentary 
Debates,'  vol.  cvii.  p.  791. 

L.  L.  K. 

**  Clubbing  the  battalion  "  (9^  S.  vii.  110, 
171).~The  word  clicb  has  been  much  in  use  in 
the  army.  In  the  '  Directions  how  to  Order 
a  Battalion  for  a  Battel '  which  are  given  in 
the  '  Military  Discipline '  of  1689  we  i-ead  that 
'*  the  musketiers  club  their  muskets  and  fall 
on."  Among  the  prescribed  words  of  com- 
mand was  "Club  your  firelocks."  Bland,  in 
his  'Treatise  of  Military  Discipline,'  1740, 
writes  of  the  men  marching  with  "clubb'd 
arms."  About  the  year  1 760  it  was  customary 
for  sergeants  to  club  their  halberds  as  a  mark 
of  respect  when  addressing  the  seraeanVr 
major:   "A  serjeant  with  a  halbevt  t4\\o\x\A 


club  it."  Soldiers  used  to  club  their  wigs  as 
early  as  in  the  year  1680,  "  with  a  peruke 
tied  up  in  a  knot  ^;  and  soon  afterwards  they 
used  to  club  their  natural  hair.  Cuthbertson, 
writing  in  1768,  says  :— 

"The  hair  of  the  Non-commission-officers,  Drum- 
mers, and  private  Men  look  tightest,  when  turned 
up  behind,  on  a  comb,  and  looeely  platted,  with  a 
black  ribband  or  tape  in  a  bow  knot,  at  the  tye." 

The  military  use  of  the  word  club  with 
reference  to  wigs  and  natural  hair  is  pro- 
bably the  origin  of  the  phrase  "  to  club  men 
on  parade" — to  get  them  into  a  knot,  the 
result  of  ignorance  or  forgetfulness  or  de- 
fiance of  the  rules  of  drill. 

An  interesting  instance  of  clubbing  a  bri- 
gade is  mentioned  by  Col.  Tomkinson,  of  the 
16th  Light  Dragoons,  in  his  *  Diary  of  s 
Cavalry  Officer,  1809-15  ':— 

"  Being  in  a  column  of  half  squadrons,  we  were 
ordered  to  form  Une,  descend  into  the  plain,  and 
pursue  the  enemy.  We  did  not  feel  inclined  to  lose 
any  time,  and  the  ground  being  more  favourable  for 
a  formation  to  the  left  instead  of  to  the  right  (as  it 
ought  in  regularity  to  have  been),  we  inclined  to 
our  left,  forming  on  the  left  of  the  left  half-squadroo 
of  the  12th,  which  clubbed  the  brigade." 

w.  s. 

RuTTER  Family  (9*  S.  vii.  148).-Your 
correspondent  will  find  a  reference  to 
Samuel  Rutter,  Bishop  of  Sodor  and  Man, 
other  than  that  given  by  him,  on  tamiDg 
to  5"»  S.  i.  108. 

EvERARD  Home  Colskav. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

**  Lyngell"  (9">  S.  vii.  49)—Lingel  is  given 
in  Levin's  '  Dictionary  of  English  and  Latin, 
1570  (Camden  Society),  thus  :  a  lingel,  lin^ 
The  index  to  the  English  words  gives  "/tn^ 
a  shoe-tie,"  and  quotes  Richard  Huloets 
*  Latin  and  English  Dictionary,'  1562:  "^ 
gel  or  thange^  lingula."  Trappur,  trappes  will 
probably  be  the  same  as  trappe^  trappat^^ 
and  trappurey,  the  caparison  of  a  horse. 
John  RADcuFn. 


HuiTSON  Fabhly  (9">  S.  vii.  129,  218).' 
There  are  Hutesons,  Hewitsons,  Hewitts, 
and  Hewsons  in  plenty  living  within  a  fe* 
miles  of  this  place,  but  I  do  not  know  any 
living  representatives  of  the  form  Haitson. 

C.  C.  R 

Epworth. 

Living  in  Three  Centuries  (9*  S.  vii 
86).  —  This  happens  to  be  the  most  popwaj 
form  of  centenarianism  at  present^  sod 
accordingly  (as  the  Editor  surmises)  we  find 
not  a  few  in  the  newspapers.  Probably  abont 
pec  cATit.  of  the  cases  reported  nuiJ^ 
^t^iLXxm^.  N^T^  ^\SA^  \ni^s»i  \&  the  nvmff 


V. 


»•  8.  viL  Aran.  20, 1901.)     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


315 


of  those  who  have  ever  lived  to  be  over  one 
hundred  years  of  age.  The  late  Mr.  Thoms's 
book  on  *  Longevity '  is  an  antidote  to  belief 
in  this  craze.  Some  there  are  who  hold  that 
no  one  ever  attains  this  age.  There  may  be  a 
very  rare  ease,  which  was  formerly  as  an 
exception  supposed  to  prove  a  rule.  Cer- 
tainly a  centenarian  (genuine)  is  a  much 
rarer  bird  than  is  commonly  supposed. 

Thomas  Auld. 

Inscription  in  Rinnel  Church  (9^^  S. 
viL  208).— There  was  an  Ogilvy  aisle  in 
Kinnell  Church,  Forfarshire.  With  regard  to 
it  Jervise,  in  *  Epitaphs  and  Inscriptions,* 
vol.  iL  p.  42,  says  :— 

"The  aisle  was  unroofed the  ^n^wine  neces- 
sities of  the  parish  having  led  to  a  disregard  of  the 
injunction  embodied  in  the  well-known  couplet  :— 
As  lang  as  water  runs  clear 
Let  nane  but  Ogilvies  lie  here." 

It  will  be  noticed  he  does  not  say  that  the 
couplet  appeared  in  the  aisle,  or  on  any  monu- 
ment witnm  it. 

The  seventh  Earl  of  Airlie  died  at  Denver, 
Colorado,  but  his  body  was  brought  home, 
and  now  rests  in  a  sweeL  lowen  nook  on  the 
banks  of  the  South  Esk,  beside  Cortachy 
Castle.  That  gallant  soldier  the  eighth 
earl  fell  in  action  at  the  head  of  his  regiment, 
at  Diamond  Hill,  on  11  June,  1900,  and  lies 
in  South  Africa.  ^  D.  S. 

Author  op  Verses  Wanted  (9"»  S.  vii. 
228).— The  two  lines  quoted  as  part  of  the 
epitaph  on  the  great  Tudor  queen  are 
printed  on  p.  379  of  the  second  edition  of 
Camden's  *  Remaines,'  published  in  the  year 
1614.  But  they  stand  alone,  and  are  there- 
fore called  a  distich  by  the  historian,  who 
^oes  not  mention  the  author's  name.  As  the 
Scotch  copvist,  in  addition  to  translating 
them  into  bis  own  idiom,  has  made  several 
changes,  which  are  certainly  not  improve- 
ments, I  will  give  the  lines  exactly  as  I  find 
them  : — 

Spainet  Rod,  Romes  mine,  Netherlands  reliefe  ; 
Earths   ioy,    Enslands    gemme,    worlds    wonder, 
Natures  chiefe. 

Elizabeth  may  have  been  fittingly  de- 
scribed in  poetical  language  as  *'Englands 
gemme,"  but  one  cannot  help  thinking  that 
the  transcriber  was  somewhat  presumptuous 
when  he  altered  the  phrase  and  called  her 
^heavinisJem."  At  all  events,  I  prefer  the 
earlier  version. 

Your  correspondent  savs  that  the  couplet 
given  by  him  is  followed  by  six  more  lines, 
and  that  the  whole  poem  is  entitled  *  Queen 
Elixabeth's  Epitaph.'  I  feel  almost  certain 
thi^  he  wi)l  recognize  most  of  them  in  the  I 


verses  immediately  preceding  the  distich,  so 
I  make  no  apology  for  quoting  them  :— 

VVeepe  greatest  Isle,  and  for  thy  mistresse  death 
Swim  in  a  double  sea  of  brakish  water : 
Weepe  little  world  for  ereat  Elizabeth. 
Daughter  of  warre,  for  Mars  himselfe  begat  her. 
Motner  of  peace  ;  for  shee  brought  forth  the  later. 
Shee  was  and  is^  what  can  there  more  be  said  ? 
On  earth  the  chiefe,  in  heaven  the  second  Maide. 

In  the  margin  of  Camden's  most  interest- 
ing volume  the  name  of  the  author  is  given 
as  II.  Holland.  As  regards  the  couplet, 
some  other  writer  of  the  time  must  have 
composed  it,  for  he  says,  "  Another  contrived 
this  distich  of  her."  John  T.  Curry. 

The  epitaph  on  Queen  Elizabeth  beginning 
"Spain's  Rod,  Rome's  Ruin,"  is  stated  in 
Toldervy's  'Select  Epitaphs'  (1756)  to  be, 
or  have  been  formerly,  in  the  cnurch  of  All- 
hallows  the  Great.  The  above  is  from  a 
note  in  my  possession,  and  I  have  not  now 
access  to  tne  book.  A  reference  to  it  might 
perhaps  give  further  information. 

QiLBERT  H.  F.  Vane. 

The  Rectory,  Wem,  Salop. 

Crowned  Heads  (9"*  S.  vii.  248).~As  a 
general  rule  the  sovereign's  head  appeared 
crowned  upon  our  coinage  from  Eadgar — 
who  was  practically  the  first  king  of  all  Eng- 
land—until  the  great  Civil  War  and  fall  of 
Charles  I.  Thomas  Simon's  magnificent 
head  of  Oliver  Cromwell — king  in  all  but 
name— is  laureated  like  a  Roman  emperor's, 
although  the  shield  of  arms  on  the  reverse  is 
ensigned  by  the  crown  imperial ;  and  this 
type  of  uncrowned  head,  sometimes  entirely 
bare  without  laurels,  has  generally  obtained 
until  the  present  time.  The  principal  ex- 
ceptions have  been  the  hammered  money 
(1660-2)  of  Charles  IL,  all  the  dies  for  which 
were  made  by  Simon  :  Queen  Victoria's 
florins  of  1849  and  1852  (William  Wyon) ;  and 
the  Jubilee  coinage  of  1893  (Thomas  Brock). 
The  crowned  heaa  upon  the  Jubilee  coinage 
of  1887  (J.  E.  Boehm)  was  a  failure  in  every 
sense  of  the  word. 

In  the  earlier  period  we  find  the  gold  coin 
of  James  I.  (1619-25),  of  which  Mr.  H.  A. 
Grueber  says : — 

"  This  is  the  first  instance  of  the  laureate  bust 
on  the  Enelish  coinage.  James  delighted  to  be 
represented  as  the  *  Caesar  Augustus  of  Britain, 
and  he  assumed  this  title  on  his  coronation  medal, 
on  which  he  is  also  figured  in  Roman  dress.  The 
name  first  given  to  this  coin  was  the  Unite,  but  it 
soon  received  that  of  the  Laurel,  from  its  type  of 
obverse." 

It  may  be  noticed  that  prior  tio  t\\^  >axi\ftw 
of  the  crowns  t\\©  V\ead  w^xi  ^o\Xl\^  ^jqJyoa 
is  sometimes  uncrovjiied,  5rai^&NW\^^\ 


316 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,    [s^sviiafril 20.1901. 


appearing  with  his  head  bare,  both  as  a 
child  and  when  full-grown  ;  while  on  the 
gold  hat  piece  of  1591  he  is  seen  wearing  a 
high-crowned  hat.  His  mother,  Mary,  Queen 
of  Scots,  also  is  more  often  represented  as 
uncrowned  and  wearing  a  close-fitting  cap. 
Her  father,  again,  James  V.,  on  the  bonnet 
piece  of  1539  wears  the  fashionable  bonnet 
of  the  period.  A.  R.  Bayley. 

St.  Margaret's,  Malvern. 

**  Rouen"  and  " Succedaneum "  (9*^^  S.  vii. 
149,  214,  258).— As  the  example  of  "ruen 
cheese  "  given  at  the  last  reference  is  likely 
to  raise  a  query  among  many  of  your  readers, 
it  may  be  useful  to  observe  that  it  is  other- 
wise named  eddish,  aftermath,  and  winter 
cheese  (see  the  '  H.E.D.,'  arts.  *  Eddish '  and 
*  Aftermath ').  The  following  is  from  the 
Dictionarium  Rusticum,'  1704,  art. ' Cheese*: 
"  For  your  Eddish  or  Wintei'  Cheese,  there  is  no 
difference  between  it  aoid  your  Summer  Cheese,  as 
to  the  making  thereof  :  only  because  the  Season  of 
the  Year  denies  a  kindly  drying  or  hardning 
thereof,  it  varies  much  in  tAste,  and  will  be  always 
soft ;  and  of  these  Eddish  Cheeses  you  may  make 
as  many  kinds  as  of  Summer  Cheeses,  as  of  one 
Meal,  two  Meals,  or  of  Milk  that  is  Flitten"  (».e., 
skimmed). 

F.  Adams. 

Pagination  (9"»  S.  vi.  147,  258,  373,  411).— 
I  feel  greatly  honoured  that  MR.  Murray 
should  have  been  so  kind  as  to  answer  my 
query  ;  but  may  I  ask  how  the  Americans 
manage  to  use  one  style  of  pagination  — 
the  Arabic  numerals — while  the  English 
cannot 1 

As  regards  the  sizing  of  books,  I  do  not 
write  in  the  interest  of  bibliophiles  or 
bibliognostics,  who  are  supposed  to  have 
readers  like  myself,  and  I  still  submit  that 
learned  leisure,  but  for  hurried  every-day 
the  old  terms  ot  folio,  quarto,  octavo,  <kc.,  are 
obsolete  in  the  present  day.  Still,  I  am  not 
the  less  obliged  for  an  answer  from  so  great 
an  expert. 

As  a  good  thing  cannot  bo  repeated  too 
often,  I  may  perhaps  be  permitted  to  quote 
from  your  own  columns  oi  years  ago  on  this 
subject  the  words  of  a  famous  bibliognostic, 
which  reappeared  in  *A  Handy-Book  about 
Books,  for  Book  lovers,  Book  buyers,  and 
Booksellers,'  attempted  by  John  Power, 
pp.  217  (1870)  :— 

"  Sizes  of  Books  (3"*  S.  viii.  540 ;  ix.  83).— Paper- 
moulds  have  fixed  conventional  sizes  \  but,  since  the 
introduction  of  machinery  for  making  paper,  and 
the  consequent  disuse  of  moulds,  makers  work 
more  by  a  given  number  of  inches  than  by  names 
nf  sizes.  C5>Ji9equently,  the  correct  description  of 
itook  sizes  has  become  impossible,  and  the  trade 
deacribe    the  new  by  the  name  of  the  old  am 


t  hey  most  resemble.  The  true  size  of  a  volume  is 
determined  by  the  number  of  leaves  into  which  a 
single  sheet  is  folded  by  the  binder.  Thus,  a  sheet 
of  '  N.  k  Q.'  has  twelve  leaves  ;  and  although  rank- 
ing as  a  foolscap  quarto,  is  strictly  speaking  a  triple 
foolscap  duodecimo,  and  a  little  too  large  lor  that 
To  determine  the  real  size  of  a  bound  book,  find  a 
>jignature  (a  letter  or  figure  at  the  bottom  of  the 
page)  and  count  the  leaves  (not  pag^s)  to  the 
iiext—say  from  c  to  d,  or  from  3  to  4.  if  you  find 
Kiight  leaves,  the  book  is  certainly  octavo ;  if  sixt^^n 
leaves,  sixteenmo — and  so  on.  If  a  further  test  be 
desired,  find  the  binder's  thread,  which  runs  through 
the  middle  of  every  sheet,  and  the  number  of  leaves 
from  one  thread  to  the  next  will  give  the  same 
result.  These  rules  do  not,  however,  apply  to  old 
black-letter  books  and  others  of  the  fifteenth  and 
sixteenth  centuries,  where  the  most  satisfactory 
test  is  the  position  of  the  water-mark. 

'*  Dr.  Diodin,  England's  most  famous  and  most 
careless  bibliographer,  often  erred  through  not 
noticing  this.  The  rule  is— a  folio  volume  will  have 
all  the  water-marks  in  the  middle  of  the  page :  a 
■luarto  has  the  water-mark  folded  in  half  in  the 
l>ack  of  the  book,  still  midway  between  the  top  and 
1x)ttom  ;  an  octavo  has  the  water-mark  in  the  back, 
but  at  the  very  top,  and  often  considerably  cropt 
by  the  binder's  plough ;  and  12mo  and  16mo  have 
the  water-mark  on  the  fore  edee. 

"  William  Blades." 

So,  after  this,  I  must  submit  the  simplest 
and  best  plan  in  these  days  to  describe  the 
.size  of  a  book  is  by  inches  and  number  of 
pages.  Richard  Hemming. 

Ardwick. 

Danteiana  (9^^  S.  vii.  201).— Mr.  McGovkl^ 
says  Dante  dubs  Theseus  duke  in  the  sense 
of  leader,  *'and  both  Chaucer  and  Shakespeare 
follow  in  his  wake."  He  has  overlooked  the 
fact,  I  think,  that  there  were  actually  Dukes 
of  Athens  in  the  Middle  Ages.  Walter  He 
Brienne  was  Duke  of  Athens.  He  retained 
the  title  after  his  father  was  driven  out  of 
Greece.  He  was  tyrant  of  Florence  and  Con- 
stable of  France,  and  lost  his  life  in  the  battle 
of  Poitiers.  Gibbon  says  in  his  *  Decline  and 
Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire,* chap.  Ixii.:  "From 
the  Latin  princes  of  the  fourteenth  century 
Boccace,  Cnaucer,  and  Shakspeare  have  bor- 
rowed their  Theseus  duke  of  Athens."  Gibbon 
does  not  seem  to  have  known  that  Dante  has 
mentioned  the  title.  Dante,  however,  lived 
in  the  fourteenth  century  at  a  time  when 
there  were  actually  Dukes  of  Athens. 

E.  Yardley. 

With  reference  to  Mr.  McQovern*s  interest- 
ing communication  on  this  subject,  and  with 
regard  to  the  remark  **  that  Dante  did  study 
at  Oxford,"  I  beg  that  I  may  be  allowed  to 
direct  attention  to  the  following  quotation 
from  *  Dante  Alighieri,'  by  Paget  Toynbee 
(London,  Methuen  <k  Co.,  1900)  : — 

'"  That  Dante  visited  Paris  darinc  his  took  js 
\  ^\»iif^  \»V\y  Vi  ^^Ky&xAodQ  and  by  ViUtkni  ia  »• 


9»'8.vn.AFRn,2o.i9Qi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


317 


f^lircmicle.  Some  ftre  incline  to  b«1leve,  from  a. 
phjf&ae  iu  u  Latin  poem  addrnBRed  by  PotmrcK  to 
Bocc^&eeiD,  thiht  D&nte  came  to  Engl&iid,  atid  it  is 
eveTi  staled  by  Giovanni  da  Serravalie,  &  fift^ienth- 
centnry  writer*  that  he  studied  in  the  Umverfiitvof 
Oxford,  baf  thkift  e3:irrm?Jtj  donbi/id"  {fith  p.  liJOj* 

The  italics  are  miue, 

Henry  Gerald  Hope. 
119,  Elma  Boad,  CUpham,  8.W, 

KiNfi  Edward  VIL's  Trn.i  in  Scotland 
(9^  S.  vii.  225). "The  following  letter,  dated 
11  Marcht  whieh  appeared  in  the  SiamJUird  of 
tho  following  day  over  tho  signature  W.  R, 
may  perhaps  be  of  iatereat  in  this  con- 
nexioo : — 

**  I  observe,  in  the  notice  of  a  qnestion  he  intends 
to  pat  to  the  Lord  Advocate  to-day,  that  Mr. 
Black  says,  *  No  aoverei^  bearing  tht*  name  of 
Edward  has  hjiherto  reigned  in  Scotlatid,*  This  ia 
aa  error,  for  tliere  were  two  Henttisli  kin^s  prior  to 
the  Union  who  bare  the  name.  FMward  I.  Vtiis  the 
eldest  iioa  of  Malcolm  IIL,  and  was  proelainied 
king  by  the  army  afi«r  the  death  of  Ids  father 
at  Alnwick,  November  13,  \\M\,  He  waa,  unfor- 
tuii&t«iy,  slain  in  battle  the  following  da/,  Ed- 
ward 11,,  better  known  as  Edward  BaUol,  was 
srowned  at  8cone,  September  24,  13^2,  and  reigned 
nearly  eleven  yeara.  Hi«  present  Majesty  ia,  there- 
fore, Edward  IlL  of  Scotland  and  VIL  of  England, 
but,  aintre  the  Union,  a  ditforent.  numeral  for  the 
sovereign  in  the  Northern  kingdom  has  been  {iia- 
continued.  The  eat i led  Htuarta,  who,  of  course, 
i^ored  the  Act  of  Queen  Anne,  continued  the 
former  ens  torn,  and  GM^nsegnentty  Prince  Jamea  and 
Cardinal  York  styled  thumaelves  resjKJutively 
Jamea  Vlll.  and  lIL,  atid  Henry  11*  and  IX*" 

W.  F.  Peideaux. 

You  r  cor resporiden  fc  ^  peaks  of  th  e  p  receden  t 
in  the  case  of  William  IV.  He  doea  not  say 
what  it  was.  He  wa**  William  L  of  Haoover, 
William  ILof  Wales,  William  III,  of  Scotland, 
and  WOliam  IV.  of  England. 

Isaac  Taylor. 

It  has  been  pointed  out  that  Scotland 
already  has  had  two  King  Edwards,  vis?*, 
Edward  L,  circa  1093/4,  and  Edward  (Baltol), 
133S.  The  natives  can  call  our  seventh  their 
third,  if  they  please,  but  it  has  no  lej^blative 
support.  A.  H, 

RoHAK  Steelyard  Weights  (B^*"  S.  vii. 
228).— I  r^menaber  that  the  Rev,  J,  J.  Goorlall, 
vicar  of  Bromhaiiii  near  Bedford,  had  in 
hin  pt^session  the  weight  of  a  Roman  steel- 
yafcl  carved  into  the  faint  semblance  of 
a  female  face,  dng  up  in  that  parl'th— an 
antique  which  he  prize*]  most  highly.  On 
hia  reaignation  of  the  living,  he  probably 
took  it  to  his  old  mansion  of  Din  ton  Hall, 
near  Ay lesbnry,  where  he  had  a  large  collec- 
tion of  curios,  pictures,  ikc.  He  gave  one  of 
the  shoes  of  John  Bigg,  the  Din  ton  hermit, 
rapfkoaod  by  aoi^e  to  have  hem  the  mEsJced 


executioner  of  Charles  L,  to  the  Ashmoleiin 
Museum  at  Oxford,  whence  it  has  migrated 
to  tho  Taylor  Institution,  where  it,  with  other 
curiowitieis,  may  be  seen  in  a  large  glass  ca-HC, 
Jo  EH   PiCKFOEp,  M.A. 
New  bourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge, 

The  current  volume  of  the  German  Society 
of  AntiQuaries,  Berlin,  pp,  330-43,  containn 
an  article  on  ancient  weights*  with  illust ra- 
tions, one  of  which  is  a  steeh'ard  with 
g rote^q u e  h ead —1  ion  or  h u man  ?  The  nu m Iw i* 
can  l>e  sent  to  your  correspondent  on  hi« 
communicating  his  address  to 

J.  U.  Rivett-Cajinao. 

Hchlos.9  Wildeck,  Switzerland. 

The  BLEsaxKG  of  the  Throats  (9"'  S.  v. 
169,  273  ;  vi,  197  ;  vii.  196),— I  am  able  to  add 
confirmation  to  Mr.  Hibisame's  surmise  re- 
si^eoting  the  administration  of  (Jommunion 
wine  in  a  chalice  as  a  remedy  for  the  whoop- 
ing cough.  A  few  year^  ago  a  priest  of  my 
acquaintance  took  shelter  in  a  cottage  in  a 
remote  Glamorgan  valley,  and  in  the  couri*e 
of  convei'sation  the  old  woman  who  dwelt 
there  mentioned  the  above  cure.  To  draw 
her  out,  ray  friend  (whose  sacerdotal  cha- 
racter wa^  unknown  to  his  informant)  asked 
her  whether  the  draught  had  to  be  adminis- 
tered by  the  Methodist  minister.  The  old 
lady  replied  that  it  must  be  by  a  **  Fapiih 
priest'';  so  she  had  heard  from  **old  people/* 
John  Hobson  Matthews. 

Town  Hall,  CardifT. 

"SiHYL  OE  Sybil"  (9*»^  S.  vii.  200).— It  ia 
never  quite  safe  to  trust  to  a  reprint^  nor 
would  it  be  justifiable  to  have  increased  con- 
fidence because  of  the  possession  of  two 
reprints  agreed  in  support  of  a  reading.  It 
ia  of  the  nature,  ana  apparently  it  is  the 
business,  of  one  reissue  to  repeat  the  text  of 
another.  But  the  reprints  of  which  at  the 
moment  I  am  thinking  have  a  certain  autho- 
ritative value,  and  they  may  be  correct. 
They  are  Hazlitt's  'Spirit  of  the  Age,'  edited 
by  Mr.  W.  Carew  Hazlitt,  1886,  and  iUex- 
ander  Ireland's  *  Selections  *  from  Hazlitt  for 
the  "Cavendish  Libiary,*'  1889.  According  to 
both,  Hazlitt  used  the  form  "sybil"  when 
writing  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  Here  it  is,  «,^., 
from  *  The  Spirit  of  the  Age,*  p.  107  :— 

"  On r  author  bas  eonjnr^l  up  the  a^^tual  people 
he  hafi  to  ileal  with,  or  as  nmub  aa  he  oonld  get  of 
them,  in  *  their  habits  as  they  livedJ  Hi*  hm 
ransacked  old  chron  teles,  and  f  von  red  tho  contents 
niKin  bisi  |mge :  he  baa  miueeied  out  mnaty  re- 
cords ;  be  has  eonsnked  way* faring  pilgrimia,  bed- 
rid  sybilfi.'' 

In  Alexander   IrelaT\d'^  ^o\m\\^.,  ^.  ^>^^  ^^ 
same  rmding  ooeutin  and  \X\^ti&  ftx^  tivVks^^^s^ 


318 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [^  s.  vii.  aprh.  20, 1901. 


in  this  niisc^Uatiy  that  the  editor  took  pains 
with  it,  ami  did  not  merely  reprofJuce  what 
a  predtt-essor  in  his  craft  hiid  ^iven.  'The 
Sxiirit  iti  the  Age,'  published  in  1825^  was 
twenty  yeare  older  than  Disraeli^s  ^ Sybil/ 
which  appeared  in  1S45.     Tbomas  Bayne, 

**  Sibyl "  in  undoubtedly  right  But  the 
other,  beins  an  old  faraib^  narae,  was  in  use 
long  Iwfore  the  appearance  of  the  novel. 
Sybilla  was  uueim  or  Jerusalem  when  it  was 
taken  by  Baladin,  a.d.  1187.  See  Gibbon *a 
*  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire/ 
chap,  lix,  E,  Yaedlev. 

Uoo  FoscoLo  m  London  {9"^  S.  vi,  326; 
vii.  150).— The  dates  of  ITgo  Foseolo's  birth 
and  death  have  been  variously  stateti 
Faulkner,  in  the  *  History  of  Brentford  and 
C  his  wick  '  (p,  339),  gives  a  copy  of  his  epitaph 
in  Ch  is  wick  churchyard,  which  in  said  to  D© 
incorrect  {4*^  S.  viiL  255). 

The  epitaph  in  Faulkner's  *  History '  is  as 
follows  :— 

Ugo  Foflcolo 

Obiit  xiv  die  ^ciiternbria, 

A,D.  1827. 

i-EUtiB  52, 

and  the  tomb  is  described  as  beinj;  a  large 

flat  stone  on  the  south  side  of  the  church- 
yard, with  a  coat  of  arms.  There  i.^  a  draw- 
ing of  the  tomb  in  Fa^an^s  *  Lif e  of  Antonio 
Panixzi,'  but  the  tomb  is  a  table  tomb,  with  a 
coat  of  arms  at  one  end.  The  *  EncyclopBedia 
Britannica '  say^Foscolo  was  born  26  January, 
1778,  and  died  10  October,  1827  ;  and  the 
'  Nouveile  BiojJtraphie  Gen<^rale '  gives  the 
same  date  for  his  death,  but  is  silent  as  to 
the  date  of  his  birth,  xrovanelli,  the  latest 
authority  on  the  subject,  says  that  Foacolo 
died  10  September,  1827,  and  that  he  was 
bom  26  January,  1779  (although  the  date  in 
the  register  is  1778,  Venetian  style),  and  was 
consequently  only  forty -eight  years  seven 
month !4  ana  fifteen  days  oTri  at  his  deaths 
instead  of  fifty -two,  as  recorded  on  his  tomb- 
stone, 

Br,  Coller,  referred  to  at  the  last  refer- 
ence, in  whofle  house  Foscolo  died,  is  a  mis- 
print for  Dr.  Collier,  father  of  Dr.  N,  U. 
Collier,  medical  officer  of  health  to  the 
borough  of  Hammersmith.        John  Hebb. 

CanoTibury  Mansions,  N. 

CotUMBARiA,  Ancient  Dovi  oe  Pigeon 
Cotes  (^^h  g^  vi,  389,  478;  vii.  16,  116,  S16), 
—There  is  a  very  fine  specimen  at  Corstor- 
phine  (three  njile«  west  of  Edinburgh,  on  the 
Olssgow  road)  which  stands^  a  little  to  the 
^^oiith  of  the  fifteenth  -  centur^^  cdk^ia\^ , 
ahutch  of  Sl  John    the  Baptist  (no^  th^ 


parish  church).  It  cannot  well  be  seen  from 
the  village,  but  is  amongst  ^ome  trees  to  the 
wast  of  tTie  cross -road  going  to  the  Pent  lands*. 
It  is  supposed  to  have  room  for  many  hun* 
dreds  of  binis,  is  in  good  preservation^  ha« 
been  figures!  in  *A  Midlothian  Village'  (n 
delightful  book  lately  published  on  Oorstor- 
phine),  and  wan  the  scene  of  the  murder  of 
Lord  Forrester  in  ia79.  Quito  recently  « 
ghost  "  walked  **  by  the  dovetxit. 

In  'The  Grange  of  SU  Gilas*  (Mrs.  J. 
Stewart  Smith,  Edinburgh,  1898)  seveml 
dovecots  are  mentioned,  and  a  picture  of  i 
ruinous  one  at  Heugh,  North  Berwick,  i« 
given  on  p.  107,  Ibagu£ 

"Belongs  wita ''  (9^  S,  vii.  148X-S0e 
'  H,E,D,;  A.fK  '  Belong,*  4,  b :  "  Occm,  const 
To  belong  here ;  also  in  U.S,,  with,  in.  ISfll, 
O.  W.  Holmes,  'Elsie  Tenner;*  xxvii.,  Xm 
belong  with    the   last   [set],   and  jpot  wci* 


dentally  shuffled  in  with  the  others. 


c,  G  a 


SEtf^rllzniiimi. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  An, 

Shctk€^ptare^4  Familif.    With  «ome  Account  d  tk 

Ardena,    By  Mra.  C.  C.  Stopea.    (Stock,) 
This  latest  work  of  Mrs,  8 topes,  ouo  of  the  moil 
intelligent    and    indffatigable    of    8bEkfisp«in>a 
scholara^  c^tisiaU  of  an  cxitanded  reprint  of  iftM^ 
wbi(!h  firat  saw  the  light  iti  the  Gtneafoffiad  M^f^ 
zint.    Witliout  dejtartiiig  from  her  original  scborae 
of  presenting  Shakesjjtjare  primarily,  if  not  wholly, 
tm  an  in  teres  tiog  W  arwickflhire  ^entlemiii^  Mi^ 
Stopea  haa  addecfto  the  genealogical  det&ih  whi^b 
form  her  theme  a  abort  lire  of  the  iioet.    I'oneeni' 
ing  thla  she  says  that  no  one  pruoablv  bat  ev<f 
attem|>ted  to  write  a  biography  of  SnakaipeH* 
"with  9o  little  allusion  to  hiJi  plays  »od  po«»a 
EShe   does    nolj   moreover,   coo  fine  herself  to  Uk 
WarwjoksKife    t^bakespcar^a,  or  indeed  to  VVkt* 
wick » hire  fiLuiiUes  gen  orally,  but  introduoei  tU  t^ 
SliakcMiHsareH  thai  eau  be  traced.    Coneero^E  ^ 
fan^ily  of  the  |x>et,  it  can  be  said  that,  thfiafn  tlii 
origin  is  entirely  conjectural,  the  end  at  leatt  » 
known.     A  space  of  one  bnndred  and  ^'^&  ye&t^ 
from  1564  to  ]6@9,  covers  the  birth  of  8hake^»zt 
nnd    the   death    of    his    last    lineal   deaoenlait^ 
CI  aim  an  ta  to  a  direct  descent  from  SbakcapMrj 
are  still  to  be  found,    Mra.  tj topes  liaa  been  im 
that  a  modem  visitor  to  the  tomb  of  Jnliei  m 
Verona  baa  deecribed   him  self  as  a   Rhakec|kcs3ft 
^[dr^tiuiajii  of  the  poet  who  wrote  the  play'^« 
*  Romeo  aod  Juliet.'   Yet,  as  Mrs.  Slopes  aefinite^ 
states,  no  lineal  deseendanta  can  survive:  *^Tb< 

iiresene©  of  the  name  is  a  certain  bar  to  the  descent 
f  we  atoepted  the  tradition  concerning  D'AT«Ciint 
whiGh  presented  him  aa  the  eon  of  ^hakcflpeafe,i^ 
IB  not  certain  that  the  chain  of  descent  wooM  te 
greatly  leni^tbeued.  This  supposed  or  ooQjeotiffil 
|>aternity,  which  is  as  dubious  as  it  la  miipaporCaatf 
IS  said  by  Mr^.  Htonea  to  have  been  **  an  luitiHUiiltd 
,  ii\&wV^t  \UT!i\>tiSvi;t\  cit  by  HalJiwell-PhiUipj*,*    Tb» 


•  8.  viL  apbil  20, 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


319 


the  original  statement  was  slanderous  is  probable 
enongb ;  that  it  is  disposed  of  by  Halliwell-Fhillipps 
is  inaccurate.  That  the  slander  existed  so  early  as 
1856  there  is  some  slight  evidence  with  which 
Halliwell-Phillipps  was  unacquainted.  How  far 
^enealogv.  apart  mm  the  direct  service  it  renders, 
18  valuable  as  illustrating  the  origin  and  trans- 
mission of  senius  is  a  matter  on  which  different 
opinions  Mrifl  always  be  held.  To  ue  it  seems  that 
toe  existence  of  '*  mute,  inglorious  Miltons  "  of  the 
tenth  or  twentieth  descent,  supposing  such  still  to 
be,  is  of  no  special  interest.  With  progenitors  the 
thing  is  different ;  and  if  we  can  trace  back  Shake- 
speare bv  the  spindle  side  to  Guy  of  Warwick  or 
Alfred  tne  Great,  something  is  done.  A  main  pur- 
pose of  Mrs.  Stopes  is,  as  nas  been  said,  to  sub- 
stantiate the  ric[ht  of  Shakespeare  to  be  rep;arded 
IS  a  Warwickshire  gentleman,  a  task  in  which  she 
meets  with  much  sucoesR.  The  point  is  advanced, 
as  implying  good  descent,  that  Shakespeare  was 
frequently  c^led  "gentle.''  In  some  cases,  but 
surely  not  in  all,  that  signification  nii^ht  be  attached 
to  the  word.  It  bears  that  sense  in  the  lines  of 
Bavies  addressed  in  1603  to  Shakespeare  and 
Borbage — 

And  though  the  stage  doth  stain  pure  gentle  blood. 
Yet  generous  ye  are  in  mind  and  mood ; 

and  it  would  be  certain  if,  in  the  following  lines 
of  Freeman,  published  in  1614,  we  could  alter  the 
word  **age^  into  sUtge  and  apply  the  whole  to 
(Shakespeare  :— 

^h^r  hath  our  age  such  new-found  **  gentles  "  found 
To  give  the  "  master"  to  the  farmer's  son  ? 

rrhat  the  word  is  to  be  accepted  generally  in  this 
mmnae  we  hesitate  to  believe. 

In  common  with  Halliwell-Phillipps  and  most 
recant  biographers,  Mrs.  Stopes  is  sanguine  and 
optimistic  concerning  the  Shakespeare  of  social  and 
oomeetic  life.    She  does  not  entirely  reject,  as  do 
anoat  biographers,  the   story  that  attribute  the 
cleatii  of  Shakespeare  to  the  reputed  drinking  bout 
whic^  followed  the  arrival   in  Stratford  of  Ben 
^ODSon  and  Michael  Drayton,  but  she  is  quite  at 
case  concerning  the  relations  of  Shakespeare  and 
Anne  Hathawav.     She  speaks  of  Anne  as  '*the 
&rst  real  fancy     of  Shakespeare's  life,  whom  his 
**  masteif ul  spirit "  went  forth  to  woo ;  holds  that, 
though  she  was  seven  years  his  senior,  '*  if  she  was 
slight  and  fair  and  delicate,  as  there  is  every  reason 
to  believe  she  was,"  it  is  quite  likely  tnat  she 
looked  no  older  than  he;  and  describes  thus  the 
circumstances  of   the  marriaKe:    *'A    break    had 
come  into  her  home  life ;  doubtless  she  went  off  to 
visit  some  friends,  and  the  young  lover  felt  ho 
could 'not  live  without  his  betrothed,  and  deter- 
mined to  clinch  the  matter."   Against  this  we  have 
nothing  more  to  urge  than  that  we  could  excogitate 
another  theory,  less  agreeable  and  ciui  te  as  plausible. 
There  is  indeed  almost  as  much  virtue  in  a  '*  might 
have  been"  as  in  an*' if." 

In  the  case  of  a  poet  concerning  whom  so  little  is 
known  as  Shakespeare  we  are  driven  to  conjecture. 
Mrs.  Stopes's  oonjecture  is  frequently  plausible  and 
brightly  put,  and  the  perusal  of  this  portion  of  her 
boMiia  alwasrs  a  pleasure.  In  the  domain  of  genea- 
kgj.  thouflh  there  is  always  a  temi)tation  to  suggest 
potnble  relationahips  with  the  poet,  Mrs.  Stopes  is 
OD  finn  ground.  She  establishes  without  difficulty 
her  facta,  and  a^vea  us  an  account  of  Shakespeares, 
Shahaapeywh  Sdiak^speirs,  and  Chacspers  extend- 


ing from  1260  to  modern  days,  and  from  Cumber- 
land to  the  South.  With  this  department  of  the 
book  we  have  not  specially  concerned  ourselves. 
From  the  g;enealogical  standpoint  the  account  of 
the  Ardens  is  the  most  interesting.  To  two  classes 
of  readers,  the  Shakespearian  scholar  and  the  genea- 
logist, Mrs.  Stopes's  book  directly  appeals.  It  is  a 
very  readable  volume  as  well  as  a  thorough  piece  of 
work,  which  many  well-chosen  and  well-executed 
illustrations  will  commend  to  the  general  public. 
A  good  index  adds  to  its  utility. 

AnnaJn  of  PolUics  and  Cxdtnrt.    By  G.  P.  Gooch, 

M.A.  (Cambridge,  University  Press.) 
At  the  suggestion  of  Lord  Acton,  Mr.  Gooch  has 
compiled  a  series  of  chronological  tables  dealing 
with  the  most  noteworthy  events  in  European 
and  American  politics  and  progress,  literary  and 
scientific,  since  the  discovery  of  the  New  World 
down  to  the  close  of  the  last  century.  He  has 
evidently  bestowed  no  small  amount  of  honest 
work  in  co-ordinating  and  collecting  his  items.  All 
that  have  to  do  with  politics  he  exhibits  on  the 
left-hand  pages,  those  that  come  under  the  wide 
heading  of  *  Culture*  being  arranged  on  the 
right.  The  result  is  a  msgnified  "dictionary  of 
dates  "  on  a  scale  hitherto  unattempted.  At  the 
same  time,  however  industrious  and  painstaking 
the  compiler  of  such  tables  may  be,  one  cannot  help 
being  reminded  of  the  old  joke  about  Dr.  Dodd  and 
his  *  Beauties  of  Shakespeare,'  and  feeling  disposed 
to  inquire  for  the  other  twenty  volumes,  it  being 
guite  impossible  to  give  an  adequate  survey,  even 
in  outline,  of  four  of  the  most  crowded  centuries  of 
European  history  and  literature  within  the  com- 
pass of  470  pages.  The  selection  of  items  must  be 
more  or  less  arbitrary  or  matter  of  opinion,  and  it 
is  Quite  conceivable  tnat  another  compiler,  equally 
well  equipped,  might  bring  together  an  assortment 
of  entries  largely  different  from  Mr.  Gooch's.  Pro- 
bably no  two  scholars  would  agree  as  to  what  should 
be  omitted  from  such  a  work,  or  in  their  estimate 
of  the  relative  proportion  and  importance  of  what 
they  admitted.  To  illustrate  what  we  mean :  under 
the  heading  of  *  Deaths '  (which  for  some  reckon 
are  always  given  on  the  'Culture'  side  of  the 
account)  that  of  Liamb  is  entered  under  the  year 
1834,  while  that  of  Coleridge,  which  we  should 
have  thought  equally  important,  is  omitted.  Then 
we  note  with  consideraole  surprise  that  the  only 
person  of  any  reputation  in  the  civilized  world  who 
died  in  1709  was  Bull,  and  in  1815  Rumford ;  and, 
stranger  still,  for  three  consecutive  years,  1670- 
1672,  not  a  single  i)er8on  was  found  worthy  to  be 
entered  on  the  European  death-roll.  But  here,  on 
a  rej>erusal,  we  notice  that  **Comenius  dies"  is 
very  unsymnietrically  placed  not  under  *  Deaths,' 
but  under  *  Bohemian  Ch.'  Then  the  selection  of 
distinguished  writers  is,  ijerhaps  necessarily,  un- 
satisfactory. The  student  of  culture  might  know 
this  volume  by  heart,  and,  so  far  as  we  can  see, 
never  be  aware  there  were  such  scholars  as  Hincks, 
MacCullagh,  De  Roug^,  Trench,  Creightou,  Salmon, 
and  scores  of  others.  Again,  some  of  the  articles 
are  obscure  and  ambiguous.  Under  1872  we  read, 
"  Stanley  and  Tait  recommend  the  omission  of  the 
Athanasiau  Creed,  but  arc  defeated  by  Pusey, 
Liddon,  and  Wilbcrforce."  We  are  not  told  how 
and  where  this  **  defeat "  took  place.  "  Wellhausen's 
History  of  Israel"  (in  1878)  *^ blends  the  <j;>\rt«ti\» 
starting  from  Vatke,  ¥1>n«.\(V,  «kTi^  ^^wa^^  ««^:s 
speaks  to  those  who  knovr.    vl  ^  ^o  twA*^  ^\  ^la^actl»^ 


320 


NOTES  AND   QUERIES.       is*  8.  VII.  April  20. 1901. 


look  for  literary  grace  in  abitr»cl«,  but  e&trios  like 
Ihis  are  necdleaaly  alovenly ;  **  [1858]  Oppett  deiacte 
'  AocmdiAD,'  a  Hcythics  idiom,  amoiig  the  cuneiform 
klpbaib^/'  Wb  should  acarceLy  expeot  t4>  tind  Max 
Muller's  *' tranalfttion  of  the  hacrt^d  Booka  of  the 
Eaat,  beginning  with  the  Ujiaivi^haib/'  etttered 
under  *  tOiurch  HUtory.'  "  [im]  l^hilolaff>%  Gold- 
i»tticker*s  Sanskrit  Dictionary/'  might  lead  the 
ttudant  to  think  that  »uch  a  work  waa  written 
and  oompLetod ;  it  never  got  down  in  the  end  of 
the  first  letter  of  the  alphabet.  When  every  inch 
of  space  is  of  value,  why  should  Drumraond'a 
•Natural  Law  in  the  Spiritual  World*  1m  eoterod 
twice  over,  under  18S5  and  1890  f  A^fain,  it  would 
much  conduce  to  cl^ameaa  if  the  titlca  of  books 
wer«  either  itaU<^i£«d  or  put  within  quotation 
marks:  «.i/.,  **BluDt'fl  Ideas  about  India"  (a^Oi.  1886) 
IB  ambiguous  till  a  verb  turning  up  in  the  liiozular 
shows  that  hU  book  is  meant.  However,  a  volume 
like  this,  with  its  multitudinous  parts,  inevitably 
lend*  iuelf  to  carping  crltiuism ;  but  the  com- 
niendatiou  y retired  from  an  expert  Eiuch  as  Lord 
Acton  may  well  overrule  any  doubte  aa  to  itn 
aub«tantial  value  aa  a  whole. 

Some  Aipee£4  of  Biitli<^Fraphff,    By  John  Ferguson* 

^ Edinburgh,  ih  P.  Jobnston.) 
TttJj*  interesting  and  very  readable  volume,  written 
by  ^n  ardent  and  enliahttined  bibliophile,  conaiate 
of  an  addreas  by  Mr.  i<erguson  on  vacating  the  pre- 
aideucy  of  the  Edinburgh  Bihliograiihicsal  Society, 
Its  object  ia  avowedly  to  encourafo  mem  hers  of  the 
a<>oiety  to  further  labours  in  the  Held  of  biblio-  , 
gnnhy.  To  the  lecture  haw  bei^n  added  an  appendix 
giving  a  list  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  worka  on 
bibliography  produced  during  the  last  half  century. 
The  work,  m  which  the  aonl  of  the  book^lover  will 
delight,  shows  what  a  bibliography  ou^ht  tt>  be, 
and  defends  very  happily  those  wiio,  besides  priMng 
a  book  for  ita  contenta,  love  it  for  it^  own  sake, 
reaiizd  the  value  of  luxury,  and  do  not  deapioe 
rarity- 

Poenp*  hij  Jam€4  Thofmmn.     Edited  by  Williani 

Bayne.  (Bcott.) 
To  the  rapidly  augmentioi^  series  of  **  Canterbury 
Poets"  Mr.  Walter  Scott  has  added  au  edition  of 
the  poema  of  jamea  Thomson.  The  fornt  of  this 
well-known  edition  is  eminently  attractive  and 
jiortablo,  and  the  ji resent  volume  is  likely  to  eotn- 
mend  to  further  atudy  the  work  of  the  pout  of  *'  The 
Reasons.'  VVhat  aiMscially  commends  the  book  la 
Mr*  Bay ne^a  introduction,  a  maaterpiece  of  sound, 
appreciative,  and  scholarly  criticism.  To  the 
lovers  of  poetrv  who  are  unfamiliar  with  Thomson, 
supposing  flucti  to  exiat,  a  iileaaanter  and  more 
Bocomplisheil  guide  than  Mr.  Bay  no  ia  not  likely 
to  present  himself ^ 

rA«  Frt^oeJi  in  ih€  Sixtine  GhaptL     By  Evelyn 

March  Phillippa.  {Murray 4 
Tiii^  volume  forms  a  useful  and  attractive  com- 
panion tu  the  traveller  to  Rome*  A  series  of  weU- 
c^iecubed  reprod notions  of  the  frescoes  in  the  Hixtiue 
Chai>el  gives  the  work  artistic  value,  and  the  letter^ 
presa  contains  information  which  the  travelier  will 
not  glean  for  liirnHclf  without  much  trouble  and  the 
4sonsultatiou  ol  many  authorities*  No  similar  work 
is,  so  far  as  we  knoWf  iti  exiatenuc*  An  exiiauative 
ejramiuaUon  of  the  Bixtine  Chaiiel  ia  not  |iK>a%$ible 
withia  tbB  Umlhs  of  a  book  of  this  class.  Miss 
I^biUitti^a    haSt  however^   been  at  muc\t  xyama  \« 


explain  the  scenes  depicted,  aiid  to  indicate  the 
plac43  in  history  of  the  great  work  with  which  she 
deals,  and  that  of  ita  execntors*  Our  one  complaint 
is  that  site  iti variably  aubatitutes  the  word  "Sybil" 
for  Sthf/(.  Where,  we  wonder,  did  she  ever  read  of 
the  "  CmnasiQ  8ybil  "  or  the  **  Delphic  Sybil "?  No 
such  things  exist*  She  even  talks  of  the  "Sybil- 
line"  books  and  of  the  **  Sortes  8ybilline "  (*iV), 
which,  she  says,  "is  Uic]  of  ton  alluded  to  by  clasaic 
authors.''  We  defy  her  to  find  a  single  such  refer- 
ence. Why  did  she  not  employ  aome  one  with 
elementary  knowledge  to  read  lier  proofs,  or,  in 
default  of  euch,  consult  a  Latin  dictionary  ? 

Mr,  J.  C.  Honnso^,  of  Alnwick,  has  overprinted 
froni  the  Prai'£^dinfjti  of  tho  Society  of  Antic|aaries 
of  Xewcastle-on-Tyne  some  eminently  interesting 
notices  of  the  family  of  Uartiquenave,  of  Palmer 
UalU  Herts,  and  of  lldert^^n,  in  Northumberland. 
Such  portion  of  the  valuable  information  snppHed 
aa  ho  has  not  pereonally  furnished  he  owes  largely 
to  a  well  known  contributor  of  '  N.  &Q.,'  in  answer 
to  a  query  which  appeared  in  ?►**>  8*  vL  269.  A  mass 
of  detail,  far  too  large  for  insertion  in  our  columns, 
ia  given*  Those  anjcloua  to  obtaiu  it  should  apply 
to  the  secretary  of  the  society* 

Mk.  A*  G*  RfitD,  F*S.A.Bcot.,  a  well-knowD  ooo- 

tribu^or  to  our  column i^.  has  reprinted  from  the 
thirty -fourth  volume  of  the  Proceedings  ol  the 
Society  of  Antifiuariea  of  Scotland  a  notice  of  ao 
original  Letter  of  Instructions  for  Sir  William 
Fleming  by  King  Char  lea  IL,  dated  at  Brads, 
^  22  M&.yj  1650*  It  presents  Charlei)  as  pursuing  a 
temixirissiug  policy,  and  has  much  interest  to 
Btudfaots  ofhiatory,  both  English  and  Scottish. 


We  muM  call  special  ulimtion  to  the  foOamM 

On  all  oonununications  EQuat  be  written  the  name 
and  addrosa  of  th6  sender,  not  neceaaarily  forpob- 
licationp  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 
Wk  cannot  undertake  to  answer  ij aeries  privatelj* 
To  secure  insertion  of  eommunications  corre- 
si>ondents  must  observe  the  following  rules.  Ut 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separMJI 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  uA 
such  addreas  as  he  wishes  to  apjx-ar*  When  answer- 
ing ^ueriesj  or  making  not^ss  with  regard  to  previov 
ontnca  in  the  tjat>er,  contributors  are  reqaeatsd  to 
put  in  parenthoHoa,  immediately  after  the  exact 
heading,  the  series,  voiume,  and  jiage  or  pagM  ^ 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  rap*^ 
cjueriea  are  requested  to  head  the  aeoond  oon- 
mitnication  "  X>uplicjate*" 

R  ("  Value  of  a  Complete  Set  of  •  N.  &  Q.'*).- 
Much,  of  course,  depends  on  condition.  Book- 
seUera,  again,  have  different  notions  of  what  ooa* 
ati lutes  a  fair  pro^t,  if  the  set  you  have  purcbsM<l 
comprises  all  the  General  Indexes,  it  is  cneaj). 

NQTWE. 

Editorial  Cotnmuntcaiiona  ahonid  be  addressed  to 
'*The  Edit-cjrof  *  Notes  and  Queries  *  "—AdTSrttte 
ments  and  Busi  nesa  fjeti^rs  to  **  The  PuWishar*-' 
at  the  Utfice,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chauoery Laoa,K.C. 
Wo  bc.^  leave  to  atate  that  we  deoliue  to  rsttu* 
c<>mmuniqations  which,  for  any  reason,  we  do  ast 
y  V^ut*^  and  to  this  rule  we  can  make  no  eioeptwn* 


.n±f  v^U£RI£S. 


,^  A  WS  VENDORS'       BBNKVOLENT      and 

LI  PKOTIDKN  r  IMflTlTfTt(>?(. 

Fonda «xHi^i  n.^nt 
Ofloa :  Memorial  HmU  BoUdlag*.  m,  tmtriBt^fm  «itf«el,  LobjIdii,  EC. 

The  Eiickt  Hm.  tk«  Mk^L  t>t  iiiit^iiHMLR%' ,  K.O. 

PnAfdADtl : 

The  Rifht  Hon.  mo  Umlt  aLELMBSK 

Sir  W.  J.  RICUMOMO  COTTC^K,  J  r^  li^bnubarlaln  d1  Loa4ett|. 

Tr«&]iiJ^f  : 

Tke  LONDON  and  WBSTMLNtir&H  llANK,  UMITBU, 

S17.  8te»fla,  W  C 

TnutMC  (Bx-UffleiO  Hemb«^  orOOininlttH); 

CHARLBS  BBNltY   WALTBH,  8«l{. 

HOKACB  BROOKS  BULHaHALL,  £«<)..  K.A.  J.P   DM 

ALFRED  HBMRY  HANOB,  Htq  ruluinnu  o(  ComniitfiM) 

CHARLES  AWDKY.  S*q  ,  M  A. 

OWtmon.^Tki»  InKttntion  wm*  e»c»E^ihiberi  la  Ji»  In  tli«  cltf  of 

— doa,  nndor  tk«  FrMldonej  of   ilit   !■£«   AidiermMa   Eftrnur,    for 

lanUnf   Fsaalons   and   Tempormif    .ivui*iui«t    iq     prfDcipiiii    apd. 

MUMHiU  •niaROd  as  Tondora  of  p(^wtp«per«- 

A  Donation  of  Ton  Onlnens  coattKutvt  i  ^'ie«>riY»i4&«i)t.  mnA  tLvet 
teno  Toleo  for  llf«  at  all  oleetloa^  SAati  tJunfetion  ul  TBree  Gafqeat 
Itoo  a  TOM  at  all  oloetloaa  tot  MSe.  BT«rr  AofiuL  «iibKnbar  i» 
■ttllediocmoTOtoatallolceUon*inpe»ji«Htiif  oaali  Ifiwm  niiMLiici  w 

MBMBBRBHIP.-Brer/  man  ud  Toman  Umiaffba*!  lb*  UnJIwI 
Itngoom,  wiMtbor  pnbluher,  wbounattr,  n^iin-.  ^mplor^i"  <*^  *m- 
lofod,  !•  ontUlod  to  beeomoamctuber  of  tbie  id^tuutlon.  lAd  injor 
n  fconnau  npon  payment  of  Fir*  e^htiiiinitt  a.aau»Uf  or  I'bfee  Galntaa 
ir  lifa,  proTldotf  taat  ho  or  she  !■  enimirc'i'  L"  ^«  ^i*!^  i^'  o«win]Mrt 
Tto  pruMlnnl  fdntnrM  of  tbo  Btiiei  rt^rrminir  c;iecuun  to  ill  reailuai 
n.  tknt  onoi  oandlonte  skall  havr  b»n  1 1 1  a  m^niiwr  ul  lUii'  i  jKiuuLion 
»  not  loao  tban  ton  jwra  pret-is^iiD^  iippiicanna ;  i'J>  mA  ivrnt  tbui 
ftf4lT«  Joan  of  ■«•  -,  (3;  ongOffOtl  [a  Iht*  dlt  ul  d^h  Bpaperi,  lor  at  i$a*i 

mynnra. 

BBLIBF.— Toaporarr  relief  i*  tt-vwa  jo  «>«k  of  dirtreui.  noi  atiit 
•  Member ■  of  tie  Inetltntlon,  bui  (n  ncwttcodDtn  nr  chair  fcrvKtiu 
tbn  may  be  rceommended  for  aa»i«t&nc«  tfj  H«nio«r«  uf  tbE  [trnmutkon. 
■qnlry  U  made  in  tneb  eneee  tij  vuLtip^  i.joininitt?v&,  &nd  r^LLcr  ini 
eaided  in  nccordanee  with  tbe  mt-Mu  &o4  rf<tniTfini«i]it«  of  iacH  tmmt 

W.    WILKlll  JUSK**,  WMTTtMT, 


;TICKPHAST    paste    t*.    HEAt^S    better    than 

'   Onm  for  ttieklnc  in  Serape,  joiBiu  l^pvn.  ttt     M.  and  i4.  vitli 
J  Bmeb  <aot  a  Toyj.    A«ad  two  iiamiu  lo  oor«r  jHMiact 
Bottle,  Inelndinc   Mruift      FuMirr,   »iiit&r  Irf»f  i^itn^ 
3  Street.  B.C.    Of  all  Staaoatrf .    siUcUpbui  i'aau  »tJeMt. 


/  M.     &     GEO.     LAW. 


COFFEE— 8  UG  AR— TEA 


V.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.G. 


SWBFPRB  WATERS  aw&nJrd  Ootd  Mrdal  %i  laterikAtloBal 
Bxhibltlcifi.,  I'lrii.  X^M. 

HWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ATS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

^chweppesboda. 

8K  WATERS  (Soda,  bellzer,  PoLa^,  Lithia, 
xie.  Tonic- Water,  Gicger  Beer,  Dry  Gillgtir 
,  Jcc.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  ceixturj. 
▼e  always  had  tbe  patrotiage  of  Royalty* 

LI8H  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER;— 

EPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN  J 
SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUA  UTS.  J 

EPPES,  LTD.,   LONDON,   M^ALVEhN, 
ITBRPOOL,  BRISTOL,  »YD?iBY,  Uid  MMLM>irJiNB. 


Shery  SA  TURDA  F,  «f/  onf  Boohdter  or  Ntmmiiqs»i^ 
Priu  TMREEPMNCS. 

THE    ATHENjEUM 

JOURNAL  OF 

K?fQLmB   and   FOMEION  LITE  HA  TV  MM 

afui  ihi  DRAMA. 


I%«  ATHi£NMVM  for  April  iJ  cijrIviiu  JHiek*  n 

BTRON-i  LETTBH^aBd  JOVKNAiiS. 

Tfce  I*(I>lA»   HOB^OERLA-KD. 

The  OaSAT  NORTH  liO\J>. 

A  HtSTOBY  i»f  t1i»  BNOLmH  CHtTACH. 

Tb«  POlTliY  of  M.  VBRUABaKN. 

KBW  NOVBU^  ;-Th8  Utritaxa  of  f^rt^  i  A  Pami&J-T  or  LeiaUOS  , 
Ibti  Wt«rdi«  Knoii  rfte  L^roet  of  w.  Ht%aKf  .  tkfUnd%  ntimnrtta, 
Cutln«  of  Neil;  The  Mldiil|rl)t  I'sMCDfier ;  T^e  rwiLlv#i ;  A 
t^ioldier  of  tta«  Kl4ir ,  ii*r(j&i«  ,  a  Ajadioaie  of  jilnann. 

MILITAKY  IKHIIKB. 

LOCAL  HlSTCJaT. 

TJXBn  ol  AUVENrUttE, 

OVK  LiaKAlilf  TAHLU-Lirr  tjf  NEW  B0UK8. 

MBWLV  1>I«{XIVEIL»0  UOCUUlfiNT«  Qf  Uie  BU^ABBTHAN  Mt 
JACtJBBAN  FfittlODSi  AiiALlBNATB"  ;  '  BMABJfilM'BAltB'ft 
FAMILY^  i  MR.  aBOROB  It  HMXTSL 

AMO— 
LITBRART  OO^IF. 

teClBNCI^-Tbe    WUdfoi*Li!r   Jo    HoijtlAnd  ^     AqthroEKfJoclci]:    NotM    : 

tiodl^Llfii  i  UMtlD^i  Next  Week  ^  C^o^ip. 
FtfjB  AliTEi— iLofi.1  H>ocl«cr  Qf  ftHtlab  Az^tl :  Mr  tttJutur  •  BtehUn 

aiQaiviLiuiisti  aiai«rr,   Mluakee  m  Ctanrvii  IJcdtaidDi  Netaa 

Irtua  iiomv ;  GiiMlp. 
HUtltIC— CJoMlpj  rerfonnaoe»  Nex(  Weak. 
DRAMA-'  Nkandn '  i  Tbe  MeKoe  Libl«fT )  0«l«lF- 


Ths  A  TH&N^UMM  April  §  cofOaffu  dr^kim  on 

TOtJRlMO  ta  BA»T  A^HOUA. 
Tbe  OUILDON  H  to  li  LAN  I J  BBS. 
HlirrURY  at  OOL/(iNI2^ATlUN 
RHAiUlPBAitJl  CiBNEALOOV. 
BCOrm.'iH  Hlrt-IXWY. 

NEW  NOVELL  :-Hartew  of  Seadlfe:  TBe  FfoCg^bQrs:  Ebeii  KoMea  i 
tu^t ,  Tbe  Hojai  ^xmrnrm ;  ilw  Salnuos  Be^betn  i  A  ikiidl«r% 

LAHOVR  and  BTATlITlOi. 

MODERN  TUauLOOY. 

*>l-|l  LrBiiAKY  TAllL&^LrjaT  of  NBW  BOOKS, 

MKWLV  msCtJVElLBD  tJUeLMJ5NT8  of  tbe  BLIXJiaETHAN  aid 
JACtiBBAJ^  I'ElilOUa^  ttJtKRY  of  MtiMTINODON  and  &BOF' 
FRBY  or  MONMOtrtM^  EARLY  OilLF  iw  BNHLANUj  FJHV. 
SIAN  FABALLHL  lA  Ute  ARTUUfLIAJV  LBr^BHl>. 

Aim- 
LITBRAKY  GtMaiP, 

HCIBNGB— Hot4.r  VehtalMj  Llbmrr  TaMa ;  AqlbroiMrtetaiJ  Lit«i« 
V%Pt:,  T^a  Lfl««QV»r;  al  Japiicr'i  mt«Uitei .  CtoiSebH,  H«#tmn 
Neit  WhU  ;,  Ooiftkp  * 

FINB  ARTS^Libfarr  l¥We,  Tb.  W&li«cbApel  Art  OallefTi  lloiB 
iDvataia  Di  PUotrrf  la  Witar  Oeloan  -,  Reout  Fniitt  /  %m,\U 
Uovtiji. 

Sitl'^ic-rapuiar  Coitwiti.  hif  Jnina  Stalaer;  GiHlFi  Fiifbtmaiir*»^ 
DRAMA— Thii  BfrBn«t«  ;  %^ni^\f  LireiE  lAhtmij  TtM^i  04«1|». 


OFFICE  for  ADVEHTlSiCMKNTB, 

Bream**  Boiidingft,  Chiinccry  Lane,  E.G. 

Published  bj  JUHW  C.  bkUS^HliVft. 

Bream'i  B\uldiiaKsu  ov^^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9^8.viLAFBiLaMW. 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBPARTMSNT 

TKK  roLLownrG 

MAQAZISBS  AND  T  TPP  APV    PriDTIPG  WITHDRAWN  PBOM 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

Until  farther  notice  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WBBES  AFTER  DATE. 

ram  AMMVM  I  m  amvi 

<.   A  '  $.1 

Argoty 7    6     Maomillan't      7  6 

Blaokwood't     18    0    Monthly  Beview       16  0 

Century 10    6     National  Beview        ».  1ft  0 

Contemporary  Beview        16    0    Nineteenth  Century 16  0 

Comhill 7    6,  Fall  Ifall          8  f 

Bngliih  Illuatrated 5    0     Bevue  det  Deux  Mondet     30  0 

Fortnightly  Beview 16    0     Soribner's         7  6 

Harpers 9    0,  Temple  Bar      7  < 

Longman's       5    0 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
Kdinburgh       7    6 1  Quarterly  7  « 

The  terms  will  be  Is,  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Sabsoribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookatalli  to 
have  the  Magasines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  thu 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAY  COMMENCE  AT  ANY  DATE. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  Bailmay  BaokiUUli,  to  which  placet  they  will  be  forwarded  carriage  free. 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  ^^^  ^ 

CKNTUBY  MAQAZINB.  The.    Vol.  30       8   «   .^  >  • 

ATALANTA  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  6     8   0   ...  3  I 

LONDON  BOCIBTY.    2  voU.  for  1891         16   0   .m  «  « 

2  voU.  for  1892         W   0   «.  3  « 

CASSBLL'S  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1898,  to  May,  1899.    Illustrated ...  3  < 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       .«  3  • 

Vol.  for  December,  1899,  to  May,  1900          ...  3  • 

CHAMBBB8*S  JOUBNAL  of  POPULAB  LITBBATUBB,  8CIBNCB,  and  ABTS.    Vol.  for  1892 9   0   ...  3  6 

Vol.  for  1896 9  0  ...  3  • 

Vol.  for  1897 9  0  ...  3  I 

Vol.  for  1898 9  0.-33 

Vol.  for  1899 9  0  «.  3  • 

QUIVBB  VOLUMB.    November,  1897,  to  April,  1896 ...  ...  *  i 

November,  1898.  to  April.  1899 ...3  3 

May  to  October,  1899          .«  3  • 

QOOD  WOBDS.    VoU.  for  1888, 1892, 1894, 1896, 1897,  and  1898        7    6   ..  3  I 

SUNDAY  MAQAZINB.    Voli.  for  1889, 1892, 1894, 1896,  and  1898 ...90^.33 


W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Bailway  BookitalU,  to  which  plaoes  Subeoribert  can  be  trantferred,  free  of  oharft. 

ProipeUuM  of  Ttmu,  4r.,  Mat  fru  upon  application  to  186,  HTBAND,  LONDON. 


Printed  by  JOHN  BDWARD  PRA»(aajaheii«umYt«».^towft%lftii3i^^  PaMMMi  kf 


I 


NOTES   AND   QUERIES: 

%  9UM«m  ol  Intertommnnuation 


roB 


LITERART     MEN,     GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


**W]iea  foand,  make  a  aote  of.'*^OAPTAiM  Guttlb. 


No.  174.  [b^,SS.] 


Saturday,  April  27,  1901.  { 


PUOI  FOUBPSHOB. 


MACMILLAN   &   CO.'S   STANDARD   WORKS. 


By  J.  B.  GBEEN. 

A  Short  History  of  the  English  People. 

with  Maps  aid  TftblM.   Crown  8to,  8«.  M. 

A  Short  History  of  the  English  People. 

Uhntmsd  Bdltlott.  Edited  bj  Mra.  J.  a.  ORBBN  ud  MlH  XATB 
MOaOATB.  M«w  BditloB.  la  S  Yols.  sapeiNroTml  8to.  half-leatber 
Madla«.«}«.Bet. 

History  of  the  English  People,   in  8  vols. 

ft*.  Meh.  [  Awrtky  8erit$. 

Ifal^tig  of  England,    with  Map.     in  2  vols. 

«•.  aaeh.  [Sversk^  8tfi$9, 

Ctonquest  of  England.    With  Portrait  and 

Map*.   8to,18«.    Ib  2  Tola.  b.  aaeh.  [MMriktf  Serie: 


Town  Life  in  the  Fifteenth  Century. 

By  ALICE  BTOPFOilD  GBBEM.    3  vol*.  8ro.  32*. 

The    History   of   Mankind.     By    Prof. 

FHIED&ICU  BATZBL.  Traaalated  by  A.  J.  BUTLBU.  M.A. 
With  latrodoeUoB  br  B.  B.  TYLOB.  D  C.L.  F.K.8.  'With  Coloured 
Flaies,  Map*,  and  lUiutimUoDt.  In  3  volt,  raper-rojal  8vo.  V£».  net 
each  ;  or  In  30  Parts.  U.  net  each. 

*»*  The  Tolnmee  are  sold  aeparately. 

The  Fifteen  Decisive  Battles  of  the 

WOBLD.  Bt  Mr  E.  CBBA8Y.  Crown  8to.  is.  6d  LIBBABY 
EDITION,  8vo.  7«.  6d. 

The  American  Commonwealth.    By  the 

Blffht  Hon.  JAMBB  BBYCE,  M.P.  D  C.L.  In  3  volt.  Mew  BdlUon. 
thoronghlj  BeTleed.    Bxtra  crown  8to,  lis.  Ud.  each  Volome. 

The  Holy  Roman  Empire.    By  the  Right 

Bon.  JAMBS  BBYCE.  Eighth  Edition.  Crown  8to.  It.  6dL 
LIBBABY  EDITION,  8T0,  iS. 

A  History  of  the  Indian  Mutiny.    By 

T    BICB  HOLMES,  M.A.     Second  Edition.     Extra  crowa  8vo, 

i:s.ad 

OsBsar's  Conquest  of  Gaul.    By  i.  Kick 

BOLSiES.    8T0,  21«.net. 

The  Meaning  of  History.    By  Fuedekig 

HABBIBON.    Extra  crown  Sro.  U.  9d.  aet. 

THE  COLLECTED  WOBKS  OF 
FRANCIS  FABEMAN. 

In  IS  Tvla.  awdhmi  Sro,  gUt  tope,  8«.  9d.  not  eaeh. 


By  EDWABD  A.  FBEEMAN. 

Comparative     Polities.      Second     Edition. 

Damj  8to.  8*.  9d. 

English   Towns    and   Districts.     With 

ninatratlont  and  Maps.   8to,1««. 

The  Growth  of  the  English  Constitution 

from  the  BABUEBT  TIMES.    Fifth  BdUloa.    CrOWn  8T0,  it. 

Historical  Essays.  Fifth  Edition.  8vo,  lOi.  6d. 

Historical  Essays.    Third  Series.    8vo,  12#. 
Historical  Essayjl.  Fourth  Series.  8vo,  12#.  6rf. 
Sketches  of  Travel  in  Normandy  and 

MAINB    Crawn8TO,8«.8d. 

History  of  the  Federal  Government  in 

GBEBOB  and  ITALY.    New  Edition.    Edited  bj  J.  B.  BVBY,  M.A. 
Bxtim  crown  8to,  Ut.  9d. 

The  United  Kingdom :  a  Political  History. 

Rt  OOLDWIN  SMITH,  D.C  L..  Anthor  of  'The  United  States.' *e. 
In  S  Toll.  Bto,  Us.  net. 

France  since  the  Revolution.    By  j.  B.  c. 

BODLEY.  M.A.    Extia  erowa  8to,  I0«.  net. 

A  History  of  Greece  to  the  Death  of 

ALBXANDBB  the  GBEAT.    Bt  J.  B  HUBY.  M.A..  Hon.  Lltt.D., 
Durham,  *e.    With  Mapa  and  Plana.    Crawn  8vo.  8«.  8d. 

History  of  Greece :  ^^om  its  Commencement 

to  the  Qoee  of  the  Independence  of  the  Oveok  Natloa.   From  the 
of  ADOLF  HOLmT  BoTlaed  bj  F.  CLAKKB,  M.A.    In 


4  Tola  8to.  Vote,  l.-lll.  9t.  net  ea«h  -,  Tol.  TV.  Jt.  9d.  aet. 

A  History  of  Rome  for  Beginners.    By 

E.  S.  SHUCKBUBOH,  M.A.    Globe  8to,  8«.  6dL 

A  History  of  Rome  to  the  Battle  of 

ACTIUM.    Bj  B.  S.  SHUCKBVBGH,  M.A.    With  Mapa  and  Plana. 
Crown  8TO,  %t,  9d. 

The   EQstory  of  Rome.    From  the  Earliest 

Timet  to  the  Period  of  ItaDeeUne.   B7T.  M0MM8BN.   Tiaaalated 
by  W.  P.  DICKSON,  LL.D.    ft  Tola,  crown  8to,  It.  9d.  eaeh. 
Thia  Edition,  bealdea  Inoorporatlnv  the  Anthor'a  latast  ohaages, 
rnU  Index. 


*«*  An  Abridged  Edition  for  Schools. 

By  C.  BBYANS  and  K  J.  B.  HENDY.    I  TOl.  erown  Sro,  U.  9d. 

The  History  of  the  Roman  Provinces. 

FromthenmeofOMartothatof  IMoeletlaB.   ByT.MOMMBBN. 
Tiaaalated  by  W.  P.  DICKSON,  LL.D.   S  Tola.  Sro,  88*. 


MACMILLAN  k  CO.,  LIMITED,  London, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    (9»&vilafbil27.isiil 


NBWSVENDORS*      BENEVOLENT     and 
PJiUVIDBMT  IMSTITUnOM. 
FooBded  1830. 
Pnads  exceed  '21,0001. 
OBce :  Memorlftl  UaU  BuUdlact.  10,  Furlngdon  Street,  Loadoa,  E.a 
FatroB:  • 
The  Bight  Hon.  the  B4HL  of  R08SBBBY,  K.O. 
Preeldeate : 
The  Uiffht  Hob.  the  LORD  GLBNB8K. 
Bir  W.  J.  HIUHMUND  CUTTUN,  J.F.  (ChamberlBiB  of  Loadon). 
TreMorer: 
The  LONDON  and  WB8TMINSTBU  BANK,  LIltlTBll, 
217,  Stmad,  W.O. 
Tnutee«  (Bx-Oflleio  Membera  of  Committee) : 
CUABLB8  HBNKY  WALTBB.  Beq. 
HOKAUB  BROOKS  MAilSUALL.  Bw|.,  ILA.  J.P.  D.L. 
ALFUKD  HBNKY  HANCB,  Beq.  (GhalrmMi  of  OOBimitte«>. 
0HAKLB8  AWDUY.  Biq.,  M.A. 
OBJECTS.— This  iBSdtBtlOB  waa  ettabUshed  ia  183B  1b  the  City  of 
Loadoa,  aader  the  Preaideney  of  the  late  Aldermaa  Harmer,  for 
RraatlBf   Paaaloaa   and   Tempotmrx   Aaalstaace   to    priaelpalt   aad 
aaaiitaaia  eaganed  aa  veadort  of  aewnapers. 

A  Doaattott  of  Ten  Oaiaeat  ooaatttntoe  -jk  Vloe>FceaideBt  aad  aivet 
three  Totee  for  lifto  at  all  election*.  Baeh  doaatioa  of  Three  Ouuiea* 
iriToa  a  TOte  at  all  eleetioas  for  life.  Brerr  Aannal  Sabecriber  ia 
entitled  to  oae  rote  at  all  elecUoas  la  respect  of  each  Fire  Shiiilngi  so 
paid. 

XBMBBBBHIP.-BTorr  maa  aad  woman  throaffhoat  the  Valted 
Kiagdom,  whether  pabUsher,  wholeaaler,  retailer,  employer  or  em- 
ployed, is  eatftlod  to  beoome  a  member  of  this  lastitatioa,  aad  eajoy 
it«  beaeflta  apoa  payment  of  Five  Shllllnffs  aaaaally  or  Three  Oaiaeas 
for  IAt»,  proTlded  that  he  or  she  is  eagafod  ia  the  sale  of  aewsmwrs. 

rhe  prlBclpal  featoraa  of  the  Bales  gOTernlag  election  to  all  Feasioas 
are,  that  eaefe  caadldale  shaU  hare  heea  (1)  a  member  of  the  lastttatioa 


for  aet  less  thaa  tea  years  preeedlag  appUoatloa ;  (2) 

flfcy-flve  years  of  age ;  (3)  eng^med  ia  the  sale  of  aewspapers  for  at  least 

tea  years. 

HBLUF.— Teniporary  relief  is  girea  ia  eases  of  dlstrees,  aot  oaly 
to  Members  of  the  lastltatioa,  bat  to  aewsToadors  or  their  servaau 
who  may  be  reooaimeaded  for  aaalstaace  by  Members  of  the  lastltatioa. 
laqnlry  is  made  la  each  cases  by  Vlsltlag  Ooaimlttoea.  aad  relief  is 


W.  W] 


reqalre 
iDUB 


J0NB8,  Secretary. 


HAIRLESS     FAPEK-PAD. 


^I^HS    AUTHOR'S 

X    (The  LBADBNHALL  FKBSS.  Lid:,  Fablishers  aad  Priatera, 


M,  LtaitahsU  Sireei.  Loadoa,  B.O. ) 

OMtaias  hairloes  paper,  orer  which  the  pea  tUp*  with  perfect 
freedom.  Siapeaee  each.  t$.  per  eosea,  ralea  or  plaia.  New  Foeket 
Blse,  8s.  per  dosea,  ruled  or  ptaua. 

Avthofs  ahoaid  aoio  that  Tlie  LeadeahaU  Fresa,  Ltd..  eanaot  be 
respcaalMe  tor  the  iem  of  M48.  b?  Are  or  otherwiae.  Uaplicate  copies 
shoald  be  retained. 

WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— SDGAJl— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  W.C. 

8CUWBFFB8  WATBBA  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  lateraatioaal 
Bahlbltioa,  Parts,  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda 

THBSK  WATBK»  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  ToDic-Water,  Qinger  Beer,  Diy  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,acc.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 


/    BNGLISH  NATURAL  TABLB  WATBR:— 
\  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,  > 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  ) 

S0HWEFFS8,  LTD.,  LONDON,   MaLVBRN, 
OLAJBOOW,  UYBWOOL,  BUI8T0L,  8TDMSY,  aaA  UBLBUUIUIS. 


NOTBS  AND  QUBRIBS.— The  SUBSCfaPTION 
•^  ^liOrBSAMO  QUBRIB8&«e  bf  poet  ialOt.  M.  ftir  Sz  Mnlhs ; 
OT  90s.  8dL  for  Twelve  Moaths.  iaeladiag  the  Volasaa  ladas.-JOUM  C 
FBAMCIS,  yjNM  mtd  QmHu  Ottoe.  Braam's  Baildi^^  nhaaiiij  l^ae. 

T<HB    CORONATION    of    QUBEN    VICTORIA. 

FOB,  8ALB.  a  OopT  of  the  SUN,  Seeoad  BditiM,  JaM  9,  UB, 
priated  ia  Gold,  coataiaiaff  a  FaU  Aeeoaat  of  tha  aaeea'o  CeteailiSB 
aad  a  Deeeriptloa  of  the  Mate  Oarriafee  of  Marshal  Soalt  aad  lis 
other  Ambassadors.-Oilbn  reqoested  to  Z.,  Atheamos  Prase,  Bnsa's 
BoUdiags.  Chaaoerj  Laae,  B.C. 


ii' 


BOOKS,  MS8.,  &c.—Me8Br8.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 
Op.,  Aaotioaeers  of  Books  aad  Uterary  Profarty  of  ersiy 
desjorlptioa.  Ubrarlee  aad  aaiaUer  OoUeotioaa  eaMfS^  Wiiifi 
aad  promptlj  eObred  for  tele.  Faeklajc  aad  liaaMval  antaafad  fw. 
vaiaatloas  aiade  for  Frobate  or  other  parpoees.  AaeHaa  Baeau*  Ui, 
Ohaaeerj  Laae  (Fleet  street  ead).    BetabUahed  UOIl 

OOKS.— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS  fop- 

'  pU«d,aeBMtteroawhat8ahieet.  Aehaowledied  ihe  warti  ewt 
aa  th«  aiost  aspert  Boondadera  eaiaat.  Fleas*  siaia  waata.— BAKIRI 
Oraat  Boohshop.  li-U.  Joha  Bright  Straet,  Binalag^ai 

(jull'bton's  hbraldic  offici 

^^  far  Searches  aad  Aathaatlc  laf oraaatioa  reapeettar 

ARMOBIAL   BBAJUNCM  AMD  FAMILY    DBBCBim, 

with  a  Separate  Oepartaseat  for  the  Aitistte  Fradaetlse  si 

HBRALDIC  FAIMTIMO  AMD  BMOILATIMO. 

Book.Flatea,  Seals,  Dies.  Slgaet  Blags.  Livarr  Bataoas.  Cmisd  llM- 

., ; ^^^— noabardsrifc? 


Faper,  Tisitlag aadlaVltatloa I 


M.  FIOCADILLT,  LONDON  (oppoolte  the  Ofaea  FBift). 


TUB  DM  LA  MOBB  FiUHB. 
FKBFA&ING   for  FUBLfCATiON.  a  Mew  Work  of  gic  . 
Historical,  Aatiqaariaa,  aad  Topugiaphical  laterasi. 

MONASTIC    SKALO    of    the    TUIRTBBNrH 
CBNTUKY.    With  the  BBgllahOAee  for  thalrBaceplita 
fiO  Fall-Fage  Flatee  la  OoUoiyDe.    With  Hiatoitad  latiadacMM  Mi 
DeserlpUve  Nocas  by 
GALB  FBDUICK.  F.ILIilst8oc 
Freseatad  ia  Old-Faoed  Type,  boaad  ia  pareiiaiaat,  aad  gIBlsMnd 
Frice  to  Sabserlbcrs  before  pubUeaUoa.  n$.  act,  after  whieh  II  wtl  k 
raised  tons. 
SpedoMa  Flaie  aad  Fraspeotaa  free. 
Address;   M,  High  Holbora,  Loadoa,  W.C. 


LONDON         LIBRAE  Y, 
ST.  JAMBB'S  SQUA&B.  S.W. 
Potrea  — HIS  MAJBSTY  TRB   KXMO. 
iVvMdsnl -LBSLIB  8TBFHBM,  Bsq. 
FicfPrMid«HU-Th9  tHAt  HOQ.  Lord  Aetoa.  the  BJght  Hea.  A  J. 
Balfoar,  M.F.,  the  Kight^oa  W.  B.  H.  Leeky,  U-fTS^L.,  BaMf« 


Bight  Hse.  Itfl  •( 


rHMiM^-fiiffht  Uoa.  Lord  Avebary,  F.R.6., 
Kosebery,  lUght  Hoa.  Sir  M.  Oraat  Dim. 

The  Library  eoataias  aboat  200,000  Voiaacs  of  Aacieat  aad  Msiai 
Literature,  ia  Tarloas  Laagaagas. 

Sabserlptioa,8l.  ayeart  Ufa  Memberahlp.  aecoadlag  toa«e.  fUM* 
Volames  are  allowed  to  Ooaatry.  and  Tea  to  Towa  Mcesben.  BmMT 
Boom  opea  from  Tea  till  half-past  Six.  Ostalogae,  FUih  Bttusa,  Hlh 
2  rois.  royal  8to,  pries  21s.  1  to  Memben.  16s. 

C.  T.  UAGBBUG  WRIGHT.  LL.D.,  '         " 


ATHBNJ£UM  PRBSS.— JOHN  KDWABD  . 
FRANCIS.  Fiiater  of  the  AlHmmmm.  JMas  mmd  Qmmitt,  At.  b 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  BSTIMATBS  for  aB  kiada  «t  BMML  lOm, 
aadrPBRIODICAL    PRIMTINO.~lS,  Braam's    Balldiaga.  Cf WT 


,B.C. 


EXCHANQB  (or  would  SUB-LBT)  for  TUB0 
MONTHS,  a  HOUSB  ia  Soath-Weat  Saharh  (dW.  laaM)  f»  • 

Keeideaoe  ia  the  Ueaatry,  or  Seaaifda.-^pply  P., *— 

" I's  Balldiags,  B.a 


V^TICKPUAST    PASTB    in   HBAP8 


stroag,  asafal  Brash  (aot  a  Toy 
for  a  sample  Bottle.  iaol«dia|- 
iMdaahalimcaat, B.a   OfaU 


ILAFRIL27.1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


321 


NDON,  8ATUBDAY,  APRIL  57.  190t. 


CONTENTS. -No.  174. 
Bnglith  Hexuneten  aod  Bleglaoi,  321  -Plough 
ICummeriea,  332— Spenser,  *Locriiie,'  and  *SeIi- 
4  — Whitaker  on  Andorra  — Book  by  Bichard 
Sweep's  Sign.  336— Henry  III.  pawns  an  Image 
■gin— Anthony  Fortescue,  327. 

:— Visitation  Nuns  at  Chelsea  —  Bxcavations 
(Doester— County  Abbeys,  327— **  I  sit  on  a  rock  " 

xgaret  W '—Duration  of  Life  in  Seeds—*  The 

>f  Pleasure '—Mrs.  Charles  ArbuUmot— Byron's 
I  Greece  —  Box  Family  of  Yorkshire  —  Peter 
.  328— Begister  of  Births  on  Tower  Hill— Sargent 
-A  Begiment  that  declined  to  go  to  India  — 
«  "— mlliam  Morehead  —  Duke  of  Normandy— 
irame  —  University  Degrees  —  Ambrose  Dudley 
flight  of  King  James  from  Ireland,  329— Authors 
330. 

:— Shakespeare  the  "Knavish,"  330— ** Bull  and 
Anthony  de  Solemne  —  Location  of  Theatre- 
ling  in  Old  Title-pages,  331— Source  of  Quotation 
rergne  Family —  Funeral  Cards— "Five  o'clock 
nimals  in  People's  Insides,  332— The  Battle  of 
f,  333  — Wall  Calendars  with  Quotations  from 
sare,  334  —  London  Churches  —  "  As  right  as  a 
-Healing  Stone,  335  — "Qui  vive?"— **Manu- 
-Arundel :  Walden— Talbot  Surname  and  Family, 
ken  on  the  Wheel—"  Tapping  "  and  "Tipping  "— 
y  Superstition,  337  — Allusion  in  Wordsworth- 
ion  in  Interments— Fergaunt—Kunic  Inscription 
St.  Paul's  Churahyard— Irish  Harps,  338— Pens : 
and  "  Nebs  "—Comic  Dialogue  Sermon,  339. 

N  BOOKS  :— Inderwick's  '  Calendar  of  the  Inner 
Beoords  '—Browne's  *  Triglot  Dictionary  of  Scrip- 
preeentative  Words.' 

Correspondents. 


SH  HEXAMETERS  AND  ELEGIACS, 
e  preface  to  his  charming  idyllic  poem 
ly,'  the  author — whose  band  has  lately 
issed  from  these  columns,  in  which  it 
nt  to  be  familiar— thus  speaks  of  the 
BS  in  which  he  delineates  and  glorifies 
)ine : — 

are  not  ignorant,  brethren,  of  what  has 
i  and  done  concerning  English  Hexameters  ; 
i  days  of  Hobbinol,  and  Abraham  Fraunce. 
lip  Sidney,  down  to  those  of  Whewell,  ana 
i,nd  Longiellow,  and  Kingsley,  and  Matthew 

and  that  lumen,  purpureum,  Mr.  A.  C. 
ne.  As  for  Elegiacs,  there  was  one  who 
t— 

Hexameter   rises    the    fountain's    silvery 
n ; 
'entameter  aye  falling  in  melody  back : 

have  taken  kindly  to  these  measures ;  their 
ftre  feeble,  like  myself ;  and  their  enemies 
hty  and  rage  horribly ;  and  if  they  raaje 
the  Hexameter,  how  much  more  against  the 
d  more  difficult  Pentameter  ? " 

was  written  in  1880,  forming  part  of 
3laiiatory  and  somewhat  apologetic 
)  to  a  poem  that  telLs  its  own  tale 
bly.  and  that  is  written,  besides,  in 
limole,  and  fluent  elegiacs  constituting 
)wii   strong   and   permanent   recom- 


mendation.   Yet,  apparently,  the  criidc  of 
to-day  knows  nothing  either  of  *  Dorothy' 
or  of  its  instructiye  and  dexterous  preface. 
Mr.    Browning,  in   a   somewhat   impatient 
little  introduction  to  one  of  his  volumes- 
written  at  a  time  when  he  and  the  **  British 
public  "  did  not  see  exactly  eye  to  eve  in 
regard   to  lofty  intellectual  poetry— hoped 
that  when  men  sat  in  judgment  on  his  work 
they  would,  at  any  rate,  take  the  prelimi- 
nary caution  of  making  some  preparation 
for    their    responsible    task.      One    would 
imagine  that  a  critic  of  any  pretension  would 
consider  a  laborious  and  generous  training 
indispensable.     How  else  can  he  expect  his 
word  to  have  weight  and  his  opinion  to  be 
authoritative  1   The  general  reader,  for  whom 
and  through  whom  he  labours  and  earns  his 
living,  is  supposed  to  give  credence  to  his 
statements  and  to  abide  by  his  decisions.    It 
is  a  fact  that  critiques  and  appreciations 
furnish  many  "well-read"  memoers  of  the 
community  with  their  entire  stock  of  literary 
knowledge.    They  supply  for  the  clubs  and 
the  gathering's  at  afternoon  tea  the  indis- 
pensable minimum  of  allusions  to  "  the  last 
new  thinj; ''  of  a  favourite  or  the  advent  of  a 
fresh  aspirant  to  fame.  Thus  the  indifference, 
ignorance,  or  error  of  a  critic  who  speaks 
through  the  medium   of   a   well-accredited 
organ  may  be   fraught   vrith   serious   con- 
sequences Doth  for  the  books  he  discusses  and 
the  readers  whose  faith  he  commands. 

Of  this  necessity  for  care  and  thorough- 
ness there  is  a  somewhat  startling  illus- 
tration in  the  Academy  of  19  January, 
where  a  reviewer  handles  in  smart  modem 
fashion  the  new  volume  of  poems  by  Sir 
Lewis  Morris,  entitled  *  Harvest  -  Tide ' 
(Kegan  Paul).  The  longer  poems  in  this 
volume  —  the  Diamond  Jubilee  ode,  the 
'Georgian  Romance,'  the  soldiers'  song 
*For  Britain,'  <S^.— are  strong  and  charac- 
teristic settings  of  their  themes,  while 
many  of  the  shorter  lyrics— *  Remember,' 
e.g.,  ^Ah  !  was  it  I  ? "  Taedium  Vitse,'  *  Terra 
Domus,'  *  Pilgrims,'  and  the  vivid  *In  Memo- 
riam '  on  Mr.  Gladstone — are  finely  conceived 
and  daintily  and  gracefully  elaborated.  But 
new  criticism  sees  nothing  of  this;  sets 
itself,  on  the  contrary,  to  show  how  ridiculous 
it  can  make  the  artist ;  and  falls  wofuUy,  as 
will  now  be  seen,  on  the  other  side.  The 
reviewer  in  the  Academy  poses,  as  he  should 
be  entitled  to  do,  on  a  broad  basis  of  com- 

Erehensive  knowledge.    He  asserts  his  fami- 
arity  with  poetry  earlier  than  that  given  in 
'  Harvest-TidjB,'  and  he   presumes  to  prov^ 
that  Sir  Lewis  Morr&  \%  ^xi  Yai\\A.\i^x  ^^oxA^^e 
several  heads.    It  ^VSi  ^xx^^ca  m^a.xk^iiVSsft  V^ 


322 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9^8.vilapril 


report  what  he  says  of  the  poet's  handling 

of  elegiacs*  Thin  comes  under  one  of  the 
sections  in  whicli  lie  affects  to  show  mere 
sequence  in  {xietic  endeavour,  and  ie  courage- 
ously stated  in  the^se  terms ;— 

"  in  a  third  he  has*  Boemingly  been  reading  Mr. 
Wataoti'a  *  Hymn  to  tho  Sea,'  for  he  adopts  ita 
Kitgliah  ijenD»mot«rfl.  The  met  re,  of  course,  m 
daasic&l ;  but  iaava  for  a  couplet  of  Coleridge)  we 
Hire  not  aware  that  any  poet  before  Mr*  Wataon 
had  att*?mptcd  to  naturalize  the  metre.  Conse- 
quently it  19  of  Mr.  Wfttaon  wc  think  when  we 
read  such  verse  sis  thia  ;— 

Man  that  is  honi  of  a  Woman,  the  pride  mnd  the 

shame  of  Creation  ; 
Man  that  soars  upwards  to  Heaven,  and  sinks  to 

the  nethertnoat  Hell." 

It  may  be  pointorl  out  in  |>assing  that  if  Mn 
Wat8onfia%'ours  these  raeaaure«,  heifj  attempt- 
ing elegiacs  a-nd  not  merely  using  pentjip- 
meters.  The  main  point,  however,  in  that 
fieople  with  literary  pretensions— mem bera 
of  clubs,  and  of  cerulean  companies  at 
afternoon  meetings  for  i n tell ettnal  commune 
—will  be  misled  by  such  an  authoritative  and 
dogmatic  deliverance  as  that  given  in  the 
Aeackmp,  Confiding  in  it»  they  will  conceive 
false  notions,  not  only  of  Sir  Lewia  Morris  as 
a  poet,  but  of  **  the  metre  "  that^  "of  course, 
is  clasaicah"  They  may  be  recommended, 
with  roferenoe  to  the  poet*  to  study  his 
volume  for  themselves— to  give  it  the  patient 
and  impartial  attention  it  fully  daserves— and 
with  regard  to  the  metro  a  final  word  may  be 
said  here  and  now.  Hexameters  and  elegiacs 
have  been  in  occasional  favour  since  they 
engaged  the  serious  attention  of  Gabriel 
Harvey  and  momentarily  attracted  the  youth- 
ful Spenser.  Great  poems  in  both  forms 
appeared  in  the  nineteenth  century*  The 
success  of  Longfellow^  (Jlough,  and  kingsley 
in  manipulating  **  the  rise  and  long  roll  of 
tlie  hexameter  **  should  be  known  and  appre- 
ciated of  all  men  and  critics.    The  author  of 

*  Dorothy,^  aa  has  been  seen,  quotes  Cole- 
ridge^s  mnemonic  illustration  of  elegiac 
Htmcture,  and  probably  this  is  the  couplet 
that  strikes  the  Academy  writer  as  the  only 
existing  specimen  of  English  *' pentameters 
apart  from  the  adventnrotis  attempt  of  Mr. 
Watson*  But  (to  pass  over  the  experiments 
of  three  hundred  years  ago,  and  others)  there 
is  in  our  own  day  '  Dorothy  *  of  ISfiO  to  reckon 
with  aa  a  precursor,  and  there  is  Browning's 

*  Ixion/ included  in  *  Jocosaria/  IS83,  Further, 
and  chiefly,  Sir  Lewis  Morns  himself  pub- 
lished in  'Songs  of  Britain/  1687.  his  loftily 
inspired  elegiac  poem  *  Priests  of  Myddfai,' 
one  of  the  finest  elaborations  of  a  romantic 

legend  in  the  language,    ^uid  pluraf    We 
conclude  that  smart  chticiam  k  not  n^ec^- 


sarily  final—it  is  painful,  indeed,  1 
not  always  well  informed— and  th 
may  be  most  seriously  misrepresontei 
critical  waywardness  or  ineptitude 
attempting  to  sit  in  judgment  it  i 
as  Erownmg  reasonably  desidera 
one  should  be  fully  qualified  to  jud^ 

Thomas 


PLOUGH  MONDAY  MUMMEF 

TnK  hundred  yeai-w  which  have 
eluded  witnessed  the  disappearance  - 
ancient  custom s^  but  the  Plough 
pageant  has  survived  into  the  i 
centun%  though  not  without  moc 
The  North  Lincolnshire  '*  plough -' 
instance,  have  gone  from  house  to  r 
season  fantastically  attired ;  and 
no  longer  drag  the  plough  of  old 
with  them,  they  ai-e  still  sometime 
pauied  by  a  fiery  and  curveting 
horse.  It  mav  perhaps  be  wortli  w£ 
shrine  the  following  version  of  the 
recited  by  the  mummei-s  in  the 
*  N.  k  Q.^'  for  who  knows  how  lonj 
short  a  time  may  elapse  before  the; 
caj-ded  and  foi-gotten  ? 

The  following  dialogue  is  piintefl  a 
down  for  Miss  Fowler,  of  Winterton, 
from  the  dictation  of  his  father,  wh 
the  parish  of  Hilmldstow,  It  coni 
int^i^sting  idiom,  **  War  out!*'  wh 
Fowler  herself  takes  flown  in  anothc 
as  *' Whore  out!''  The  words  a 
mean  "  Be  wary  ! "  "  Pay  attention  ! 
out !  '*  or,  asi  Lincolnshire  people  ft 
exclftiiu,  '*Mind  yersens  f*  Other 
only  noteworthy  thing  aboufc  the  rin 
the  combat  which  should  tx'cur  is 
and  consequently  no  doctor  ap(iears 
the  fallen  champion  to  life. 

PIjOUOHBOYS- 
Chif^Hf  I  fit  {at'torj. 
Good  evening,  ladys  and  Cientlcniei 

I  am  making  rather  a  bole  call ; 
But  Chrifltmag  time  i&  a  merry  %im* 

I  hav€i  come  to  see  you  alh 
I  ho  lie  you  will  not  be  ofendecf 

For  what  I  have  ji^ot  to  na.y  t 
Here  is  a  few  more  jolly  fellows 

Will  step  in  thia  way. 

Sofdkr,  iVo.  StuL 
I  am  a  Kecuited  aeagaiit 
Ariviug  here  just  now  ; 
My  or^Ier^  is  to  enlist  all 
who  follow  the  cart  und  phiui^h. 
Fitrttifffi  Trat'fMtr^  Jr*/, 
0,  eiideod,  mr  seogant, 
Aji  I  mippoae  you  are, 
.  You  want  us  bold  maHshal  lada 

\  'ttklwxk^hA  Boer  war. 


»^  a  Vn.  April  27. 1901,)      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


323 


Wm  [WeOl?]  boldly  faoe  the  enemy 

And  do  the  best  we  can, 
And  if  they  dont  prove  civil 

We  will  slay  them  every  one. 
I  am  a  Foreign  traveller, 

I  have  travelled  land  and  sea, 
And  nothing  do  I  want  but  a  wife 
To  please  me  the  rest  part  of  ray  life. 

Lady,4ih. 
1  am  a  lady  bright  and  gay. 

The  fortune  of  my  charm. 
And  scomfolly  I  am  thrown  away 

Into  my  lover  arms. 

Srd  (».&,  the  Foreign  Traveller), 
I  have  meet  my  dearest  jewel ; 

She  is  the  comforts  of  my  life. 
And  if  she  proves  true  to  me 

I  entend  her  been  my  wife. 

Farmer^  StK 
Madam,  it  is  my  desire. 

If  I  should  be  the  roan 
All  for  to  gain  vour  fancy,  love, 

I  will  do  the  oest  I  can. 
I  have  got  both  com  and  cattle, 

And  everything  vou  know. 
Besides  a  team  of  horses 

To  draw  along  the  plough. 

Ladp, 
Young  man,  you  are  deceitful. 

As  any  of  the  rest ; 
So  for  for  [sic]  that  reason  I  will  have 

Them  I  love  best. 

Soilder  [sic]. 
Come,  me  lads,  who  is  bound  for  listing, 

And  gan  along  with  me : 
You  shall  have  all  kinds  of  liquor 

While  you  are  in  our  comi>any. 

Indian  King,  Xo,  6, 
War  out !  me  lads,  and  let  me  come  in  ! 
For  I  am  the  old  chap  called  Indian  King. 
They  all  have  been  trying  me  to  slay ; 
But  you  see  I  am  slive  to  this  very  day. 

Hcby  Horae,  No,  7. 
In  comes  a  four  year  old  cout, 
A  fine  as  ever  was  bought : 
He  can  hotch  and  he  can  trot 
14  miles  in  15  hours  just  like  nought. 

Lady  Jane^  N.  8, 
In  comes  Jane  with  a  long  leg  crayn, 

Rambling  over  the  midow  ; 
fJnce  I  was  a  blouming  young  ^irl, 

But  now  I  am  a  down  old  widow. 

N,S(i,e,,  the  Soldier), 
Cientlemen,  and  ladies, 

Yon  seen  our  fool  is  |^ne  ; 
We  make  it  in  our  busmess 

To  follow  him  alonfi[ ; 
We  thank  you  for  civility 

That  you  have  shown  us  here ; 
We  wish  you  a  merry  Christmas 

And  a  happy  new  year. 

^^^e  introductory  speech  of  the  clown  given 
j?*^w  diffeni  from  that  in  the  alx)ve  dialogue. 
JS^  copied  by  Miss  Mina  Fowler  from  the 
of  a  vmage  hoy  at  Winterton,  but 


the  rest  of  the  "  ditties '^  have  still  to  be 
collected. 

In  comes  I,  ohs  [I  've  ?1  never  been  before, 

With  my  big  heiMi  and  my  little  wit. 

If  my  head  be  big  and  my  wit  be  small 

I  '1  act  Tomfool  among  you  all. 

Ah,  Ah,  Ah,  you  and  me. 

Little  brown  juden  [jug  ?j,  I  love  thee. 

If  I  had  a  cow  that  gave  such  milk 

I  'II  clothe  her  in  the  richest  silk. 

I  '11  feed  her  on  the  best  of  hay. 

And  milk  her  forty  times  a  day. 

In  comes  I,  hungry  and  dry. 

Please  will  you  give  us  a  bit  of  pork-pie. 

The  request  which  concludes  this  speech 
smacks  of  the  soil,  for  pork-pie  is  a  favourite 
dish  among  high  and  low  in  the  county  of 
Tennyson  and  Newton,  where  "  pig-meat"  is 
held  m  great  esteem. 

The  next  dialogue  was  repeated  to  Miss 
Fowler  at  Winterton  by  Mrs.  I.,  who  gave  it 
as  used  on  **  the  hillside  "  (the  western  slope 
of  the  wolds  in  North  Lincolnshire)  some 
twenty-five  years  ago.  It  is  to  be  noticed 
that  m  this  version,  as  in  the  one  from 
Hibaldstow,  the  hobby-horse  can  "  hotch  "— 
whatever  pace  that  word  may  mean— while 
a  long-legged  crane  is  again  referred  to  in 
"  Jane's  "  speech.  It  may  be  that  the  heron, 
not  the  true  crane,  has  suggested  the  line. 
The  latter  bird  is  now  only  a  chance  visitor, 
while  the  former  is,  or  was  till  lately,  some- 
times called  the  crane,  its  more  common 
name  being  heronsew.  The  "  Doctor's  "  part 
includes  an  allusion  to  bagpipes  (here  pos- 
sibly a  comic  name  for  the  lungs),  which 
were  once  well-known  instruments  of  music 
in  the  county.  An  old  man  who  could  play 
the  Lincolnshire  pipes  was  still  living  in  the 
neighbourhood  oi  Kirton-in-Lindsey  in  the 
earner  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  but 
both  the  player  and  his  pipes  have  now 
vanished. 

Plouoh-jaos*  Ditties. 
The  Hobby- Hone, 
Here  comes  a  four-year-old  colt  [cowt], 
As  fine  a  filly  as  ever  was  bought  [bowt]. 
He  can  'otch,  an'  he  can  trot. 
An'  he  can  carry  a  butter-pot 
Nine  miles  high  wi'out  touching  the  sky. 

Jane,  or  Besom  Betty, 
In  comes  Jane  with  a  lone-legg'd  crane, 

Creeping  over  the  meadow ; 
Once  I  was  a  blooming  maid. 
But  now  a  down  owd  widow. 

LShe  sweeps  about  with  her  broom. 

The  Soldier, 
I  'm  a  recruiting  serjeant 

Arrived  'ere  just  now ; 
My  orderR  ate  U>  '\\aV»  sXV 

That  ioWow  carl  SbM  \\««^\^% 
Likewise  MiWers,  \.\i\\l«x%« 


324 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*  S.  VIL  April  27.  WL 


And  all  that  can  advance. 

I  should  like  to  see  our  fool  dance. 
Ah !  but  I  can  sin^. 
Come,  all  you  lads,  that 's  a  mind  for  listin*, 

Come  with  me  and  be  not  afraid : 
You  shall  have  all  kinds  of  liquor, 

Likewise  dance  with  a  pretty  maid. 

The  Fool 
is  supposed  to  kill  one  of  the  men,  and  then  they 
shout,  "  Dead  !  and  where 'a  the  doctor?" 

The  Doctor. 

Here  I  am,  the  doctor ; 

I  can  cure  the  itch,  the  stitch, 

The  blind,  the  lame. 

And  raise  the  dead  to  life  again. 

I  once  cured  a  man  that  had  been  in  his  grave  nine 

years. 

Take  hold  of  my  bottle  till  I  feel  his  pulse— 
And  every  time  he  stirr'd  his  bagpipes  played— 
Cheer  up,  8am,  and  lot 's  have  a  dance. 

The  Indian  King. 
[He  appears  as  a  black  man  with  white  dress.] 
Where  out !  my  lads,  let  me  come  in, 
I'm  the  chap  they  call  "  the  Indian  King.*' 

[He  dances,  ka. 
The  Lady. 
I  'm  a  lady  bright  and  gay. 
The  truth  to  you  V\\  tell. 

What  did  the  Fool 'say  ? 

Mabel  Peacock. 
Kirton-in-Lindsey. 

{Tohecontintied.) 


EDMUND  SPENSER,  *  LOCRINE,'  AND 
*SEUMUS.' 
{Conlimifd  from  p.  363,) 
As  in  his  other  work,  so  in  *Selimus' 
Marlowe  has  subordinated  everything  in  his 
plajr  to  the  development  of  a  single  idea, 
which  he  has  embodied  in  the  character 
whose  name  is  given  to  the  play.  It  is  the 
same  idea  as  is  personated  in  Tamburlaine 
and  in  the  Duke  of  Guise — the  lust  of  power 
or  hunger  for  an  earthly  crown.  Similarly, 
too,  he  makes  Guise,  Tamburlaine,  and  Seli- 
mus  pronounced  atheists,  men  who  scorn 
reli^on,  and  only  use  it  as  a  cloak  to  cover 
their  designs.  Add  also  that  the  three 
characters  are  ardent  disciples  of  the  teach- 
ings of  Machiavelli. 

The  confession  of  faith  made  bv  Selimus 
in  his  great  speech,  11.  235-385^  is  neither 
more  nor  less  than  an  exposition  by  the 
author  of  his  own  beliefs  and  opinions  ;  and 
the  substance  of  this  speech  is  condensed  by 
Machiavel  in  the  prologue  to  *The  Jew  of 
Malta.'  It  also  finds  a  parallel  in  the  long 
speech  by  Guise  in  *  The  Massacre  at  Paris,' 

Ihce,  pp.  228,  229,  and  its  aentimenta  andV  X)\x\»x^  \x>  ^ve  that  contempt  exprestioo 
phrasing  are  echoed  in  many  paaaai^e^  oi\Vv\&  w^xv<(^'9iV»^%<»^  ^vi^xV  V^  tslftrs  to  it 


Marlowe's  acknowledged  work.     Moroov 
it  is  on  record  in  an  official  documeat  that 
Marlowe  was  in  the  habit  of  expressing  his 
opinions  in  the  very  words  that  he  has  pat 
into  the  mouth  of  Selimus. 

Greene  might  have  written,  and  very  pos- 
sibly did  write,  *  Locrine,'  and  a  strong  case 
could  be  made  out  for  him  as  its  author ;  bat 
he  is  impossible  as  the  author  of  'Selimoa.' 
Compared  with  his  work  generally,  but  espe- 
cially with  his  plays,  the  style  of  ^Selimas' 
is  severe  simplicity  itself ;  and  its  sustained 
power   and   vigorous   phrasing   are  thion 
which  Greene  m  his  wildest  dreams  ooold 
never   hope  to  aspire  to  or  even  imitate. 
Besides,   Greene    was   not   a    proeelytiziiig 
atheist  who  vented  his  opinions  in  aU  oooh 
panies,  nor  was  he  a  follower  of  MachiavellL 
indeed,  he  had  such  an  aversion  to  Marlowe's 
opinions  that  he  went  out  of  his  way  tomab 
the  fact  publicly  known.    In  *The  Groats- 
worth  of  Wit'  Greene  admonishes  Mark>ve 
to  abandon  atheism  and  to  guide  his  life  and 
his  thoughts  by  other  and  better  precepts 
than  those  of  '*  pestilent  Machivilian  policift* 
It   is   quite  clear  from   his   writings  that 
Greene  was  not  an  atheist  of  the  Agpesdve 
type  that  Marlowe  was,  and  tJiat  his  tm- 
mentative  powers  were   not  equal  to  the 
composition  of  the  singularly  powerful  plea 
against  religion  made  by  Selimus. 

Marlowe's  irreligious  views  were  notorioas 
to  his  contemporaries,  and  we  find  one  of  his 
enemies,  a  Richard  Bame  or  Banes,  laying  an 
information  a^nst  him  on  that  score,  one 
of  the  counts  in  the  indictment  being  that 
he  (Marlowe)  was  constantly  saying  ''that 
the  first  beginnynge  of  Religion  was  only, 
to  keep  men  in  awe"  (Marlowe's  'Works,' 
Dyce,  p^  389,  Ap^ndix  II.).  Bame  or  Baneii 
asserts  that  tnis  was  one  of  Marlowe's 
"  common  speeches,"  as  "  shall  by  good  and 
honest  men  be  proved";  that  he  preached 
atheism  in  all  companies,  and  scorned  both 
God  and  man,  ''willinge  them  not  to  be 
afrayed  of  bugbeares  and  nobgoblins."  ^^"T^ 
those  verv  words  are  used  by  Selimus  in  tii* 
speech  already  referred  to,  where  he  s^^* 
that  the  names  of  gods,  religion,  heaven,  ^^ 
hell  were  first  de\dsed  to  make  men  live  ^^ 
quiet  awe^**  and  that  religious  observations  ^•^ 

Onlv  bug-bears  to  keep  the  world  in  fear. 

And  make  men  quietly  a  yoke  to  bear.  — 

The  case  for  Marlowe  as  against  Greene  &  ^'^ 
not  need  further  argument.  ^^ 

Marlowe  affected  a  supreme  contempt       ^ 
religion,  and  he  ransacked  a  copious  v 
\3K&rj  \x>  ^ve  that  contempt  expresrioD* 


la 


I0 

a 


[LAintn.s7.iMi.]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


825 


3le,  an  old  wives*  tale,  a  mere  sound 
n  definite  meaning :  and  he  tells  us 
kshamed  of  men  who  paid  heed  to 
ery.     I  will  quote  :— 
dy  policy  hath  fram'd  religion. 

ashftin,  however  that  I  seem, 

i  word  of  such  a  simple  sound, 

t  matter  should  be  made  the  ground. 

•  The  Massacre  at  Paris/  p.  228,  col.  2. 
^.  I  count  religion  but  a  childish  toy, 
there  is  no  sin  but  ignorance. 

m*d  to  hear  such  fooleries. 

Prologue,  *  The  Jew  of  Malta.' 

sacrilege  for  to  be  holy, 
ice  this  thread-bare  name  of  good ; 
>ld  men  and  babes  that  kind  of  folly, 
f  equal  value  with  the  mud. 

religion  ;  it  disgraces  man. 

ligion,  of  it-self  a  bauble,  &c. 

♦Selimus,'  11.  249-52,  255,  and  342. 

There  is  a  hell  and  a  revenging  God. 

.  Tush  iSinam  !  these  are  school  conditions, 

,e  devil  or  his  cursed  dam. 

*Selimus,ML  422-4. 

jminded  of  Tamburlaine's  boast  :— 
God,  full  of  reveneing  wrath, 
>m  the  thunder  ana  the  lightning  breaks, 
ourge  I  am. 

*2Tamb.,' V.  i.  p.  60,  col.  2. 

.mburlaine,'  *  Edward  II.,'  and  *The 
)  at  Paris,'  as  well  as  in  ^Selimus,' 
's  idea  of  ultimate  happiness  never 
Deyond  the  possession  of  an  earthly 
n  which  he  centred  all  joy.  In  his 
ly  there  was  no  room  for  heaven  nor 
id,  he  argued,  if  there  be  a  heaven, 
of  heaven  are  not  to  be  comparea 
gly  joys  on  earth.  See  Tamburlaine's 
)yce,  p.  18,  col.  2,  commencing 
)  of  reign  and  sweetness  of  a  crown,  &c. 
n  the  crown  is  "  the  ripest  fruit  of 
is  "perfect  bliss  and  sole  felicity": 
)tain  the  prize  all  things  are  lawful 
>ur  the  end.  Compare  what  follows  : 
Cs  it  not  passing  brave  to  be  a  king? 

,  my  lord,  it  is  sweet  and  full  of  pomp ! 
To  be  a  king  is  half  to  be  a  god. 
.  god  is  not  so  glorious  as  a  king ; 
e  pleasures  they  enjoy  in  heaven, 
mpare  with  kingly  joys  in  earth. 

*  1  Tamb.,'  Act  fl.  sc.  v.  p.  17,  coL  2. 

i  by  my  soul  it  never  should  me  grieve, 
t  on  the  Turkish  empire  reign, 
lell,  and  leave  fair  heaven's  gain. 
«,  tSinam,  is  so  sweet  a  thing, 
I  be  a  devil  to  be  a  kin^ 


'SeJimiiff/ II  436-40, 


1  am  reminded  again  of  *  Tamburlaine '  :— 

Cel.  If  his  chair  [=thronel  were  in  a  sea  of  blood, 
I  would  prepare  a  shi])  and  sail  to  it. 
Ere  I  would  lose  the  title  of  a  king,  ac. 

*  2  Tamb.,'  1.  lii.  p.  47,  col.  2. 

Faustus,  too,  became  a  "  devil "  to  be  a  mighty 
magician,  having  sold  his  soul  to  Lucifer  for 
"  the  vain  pleasure  of  four  and  twenty  years  " ; 
and  Barabas  was  such  a  covetous  wretch 
that,  to  use  his  own  words,  he  would  "for 
lucre's  sake  have  sold  my  soul."  Even 
Barabas  is  an  atheist,  for  he  counsels  his 
daughter  to  use  religion  as  a  cloak,  which 
Hides  many  mischiefs  from  suspicion. 

Again,  Selimus,  when  he  has  attained  to 
the  crown^  compares  his  labours  and  his 
reward  with  the  labours  and  reward  of 
Hercules,  who  obtained  Hebe  for  his  bride 
and  a  place  with  the  gods  in  heaven.  Selimus 
would  not  change  places  with  Hercules  :— 
ThU  is  my  Hebe,  and  this  is  my  heaven.— L.  1674. 
He  refers  to  the  crown. 

In  Marlowe's  philosophy  might  is  right, 
and  tyranny  the  only  sure  prop  to  the 
throne  :— 

Machiavel.  Might  first  made  kings,  and  laws  were 
then  mast  sure 
Wherit  like  the  Draco's,  they  were  writ  in  blood. 
Prologue,  'The  Jew  of  Malta.' 

Sel.  And  think  that  then  thy  Empire  is  most  sure 
WKen  men  for  fear  thy  tyranny  endure. 

^SeUmus,' II.  240-1. 

Moreover,  all  men  are  enemies  who  do  not 
hat&  ana  actively  assist  you  against,  your 
rivals  or  opponents  :— 
JT.  Edw.  They  love  me  not  that  hate  my  Gaveston. 

'Edward  II..' p.  195,  col.  1. 
Sel,  He  loves  not  me  that  loves  mine  enemies. 
*SeUmu8,' 1.2310. 

Much  is  made  of  this  sentiment  in  Marlowe. 

Tricker^r,  too,  is  a  commendable  thing  in 
the  pursuit  of  one's  aims ;  and  therefore,  if 
youV)lav  cards  with  your  friend  the  enemy, 
shuffle  tiiem  in  such  a  way  as  to  deal  yourself 
^1  the  trumps  :-— 

Ouise,  Then,  Guise. 

Since  thou  hast  all  the  cards  within  thy  hands, 
To  shuffle  or  cut,  take  this  as  surest  thing, 
That,  right  or  wrong,  thou  deal  thyself  a  king. 

*The  Massacre  at  Paris,'  p.  229,  col.  1. 

Compare— 

Sel,  Will  Fortune  favour  me  yet  once  again  ? 
And  will  she  thrust  the  cards  into  my  hands  ? 
Well,  if  I  chance  but  once  to  get  the  deck, 
To  deal  about  and  shuffle  as  I  would ; 
Let  Selim  never  see  the  daylight  spring. 
Unless  I  shuffle  out  myself  a  king. 

•  Selimus,' 11.  1538-4.^ 

53,  Hampden  Koad,  Hottiw^  ^"^ . 

(To  he  rcmipleted  m  iKe  u€«t  x*o•'^•^ 


326 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     19^8.vilafril27,iwl 


*  Whitakeb*  ok  Andorba.— In  'An  Alma- 
nack for  tliG  Year  of  our  Lord  1901/  by  Joseph 
Whi taker,  F.S.A.,  on  p.  552,  it  ia  sain  of  An- 
dorra that  it  is 

"a  miniature  Republic  in  the  Pyrenees,  with  an 
area  of  175  square  milesj  and  a  |K)puiatioti  of  6,000 : 
it  is  under  the  joint  suzerainty  qf  France  and  Spain* 
There  is  aConncil  of  Twenty- four,  elected  by  certain 
of  the  inliabjtantH,  a  jadgeT  and  two  vicari^  (prieats) 
appointed  in  turn  bv  France  and  the  Biabop  of 

In  168fi  I  walked  through  this  toy  state,  or 
state  t05%  paaaiug  one  nipht  in  the  village  of 
Andorra^  and  another  in    San  Julidn,    the 
largest  village*      I    had  some  conversation 
with    the  vcguer  of   France,  a  layman,     I 
ascertained  that  the  vegner,  who  is  etymolo- 
gically  the  vicar,  is  never,  as  Whi  taker  states, 
a  pri&st ;   that  the  title  of  the  state  is  not 
repul/iic  (though  this  worfl  has  been  used  in 
Latin  and  neo-J>afcin  for  monarchical  govern- 
roenta,  merely  meaninj^  state,  common  weal,  or 
govemraont),    but   ht-pi^ndpado^   or  double 
principality-     Official  documents  there  all 
describe  it  so.    One   prince  is  the  French 
republic,  as  successor  of  the  French  kinija 
who  held  the  countship  of  Foix  ;  the  other  is 
the  Bishop  o!  I  l^rgel  for  the  time.    These  two 
princes  have  equal  authority  in  those  quiet 
valleys*    There  in  no  judge  but  the  veguer. 
Ecclesiastically   the  little    state   belongs  to 
the  diocese   of    Urgel     Spain,    under   the 
conditions  of  raoflern  life*  and  nominating 
the  bishop,   has  considerable  influence,  but 
not  *' suzerain t^v,"  in  Andorra,    The  popular 
tongue  there   is  Catalan,   tht^   Provencal  of 
Spain,     Most    Andorrans,    however,    »*peak 
Castiliao  also,  and  many  of  them  French,  and 
the  patoii  of  the  Ariege  as  welL    Spanish 
coins  and  stamps  are  in  use.    The  name  An- 
dorra seems  to  be  of  Bask  origin,  just  as 
Aran,  the  name  of  another  little  state  tn  the 
Pyrenees,  means  vallev  in  Baskish.    Andorra 
would  seem  to  mean  aid  or- tree  (samb^ucrtsj.    I 
saw   some   specimens  of   that  plant  there. 
There  are  places  in  modern  Bask-Iand  named 
from  the  same  tr^  i.e.^  Anduain,  where  Lar- 
ram  end  i  and  Erro  were  born.    I  wrote  to  the 
editor  of  *  Whi  taker's  Almanack '  some  time 
after  my  visit  to  Andorra,  pointing  out  the 
mistakes  in  the  description  of  that  princi- 
pality.   They  have  been  repeated  down  to 
the   beginning    of    the    twentieth   century. 
Some  information  about  the  countrv'  may  be 
seen  in  the  writings  of  M,  P.  Vidal,  Biblioth^- 
caire  de  Perpignan. 

Don  Juin  Oliva,   librarian   of  the  Museo 
B&l&guer  at  Yi  J  Ian  ueva  y  Geltni,  Cataluila, 

/pvm  me  the  following  notes  lor  p\ib\\c&t\ot\ 

m  &  letter  dated  21  February  :— 


"  Raepecto  a  Andorra  creo  qne  el  Veguer  (aomlice 
que  »©  rtio  tambien  en  CatalunyA  i  loaque  represent- 
a  ban  al  Key  en  las  reg!oG6s  llamadas  fytffw^rku) 
HJempre  cs  personage  civil,  nunca  eeleaiiUtico.  De 
UQ  tonio  manui^crito  queaoui  ^ardamoa,  titukdo 
*  Manual  Digest  d&  laa  VaUs  nentras  de  AndomL* 

esorit jier  lo  Dr.  en  dret  Anton  Fiter  y  Roeell 

.,.  .  en  1148,  le  copio  lo  aittuianlc,  por  si  uoede 
interaesarle :  '  t-libre  2«^  r>elfl  Miniatrca  y  immk 
de  JuEticia  v  d«mt^.a  i  el  la  ooncement  ei^  ]ii 
Vails  de  Andorra.  Capital  1"  Loa  Veguera  de 
Andorra  aon  Lloc^htinenta  y  Viceregenta  dels  i^tin- 
cepa  J  aa  rccepciil,  jurament,  y  JnTisdJcciij  6 
an  tori  tat.  Los  Veguera  vulKamient  nomenati  de 
lae  Vails  de  Andorra  bc  han  conej^it  en  ella  en  lo 
tempB  antich  per  loa  noma  de  B^tilfis^  Viatriuid 

Vfffuer Ea  tan  antijrna  aa  au  tori  tat  en  lu  Villi 

de  Andorra,  com  en  ellaa  es  antteh  lo  Golwm. ..« 
En  la  formacii5  dola  pariatgea  ea  ahout  timra^pnn* 
cipi  lo  Ciobem  y  Juaticia,  per  indivia  deli  dt«  de 
Andorra  un  notnenat  per  iiuiacnn  dels  teoyops  de 
elloa,  puea  en  ellaa  ae  dectara  que  laa  ditA^VaJb 
fosaen  gobernadaa  per  indivi?  per  Veguera,  dali 
ctials  nonienjia  y  elegia  nn  lo  Sr.  Bisbe  de  Uif^U  j 
altre  lo  8r,  Comte  de  Foil,  lo  que  encara  »e  obierira 
vuy  ea  dia/  Creo  que  eon  este  le  baatanl  para  •alir 
de  dudas." 

This  note  need  not  be  lengthened  by  a  tmns- 
lation  of  this  Castilian  with  its  CaUlan 
quotations.  *N.  ^  Q.*  was  bom  to  set 
things  right.  E.  S,  DoDOSOjr. 

Book  by  Richard  Baxter,— Following  np 

my  query  at  9"'  S.  vi,  430,  I  have  since  then 
come  upon  a  reference  to  this  book  in  *A 

Journal,  or  Historical  Account  of  the  lif^ 
Travels,  Sufferings,  Christian  Experiences, 
and  Labour  of  Love^  in  the  Work  of  t^ 
Ministry,    of  that   Ancient,    Eminent,  and 

Faithful  Servant  of  Jesus  Christ,  Qeoije 
Fox,'  London,  1765.  In  a  letter  dated  from 
"South-street,  the  S4*^  of  the  4^  month, 
less,"  Fox  thus  writes  (pp.  584-6) :—  I 

**  I  read  of  a  wise  moral  philoaopher  wbo^  mwlif 
a  woman  with  her  neck  and  breast  bare,  kid  nj  | 
band  ufKin  ber  and  said,  *  VVonian,  will  thou  »u 
this  fieahf*  and  ($ha  replying  *No^  :  *Then  pr»fi 
aaid  be,  *  shut  up  thy  ebop'  (meaning  her  h*^ 
breasts  and  neck).  So  they  were  looked  apo^i  *[ 
harlots  that  went  with  their  neckn.  breaata,  aij^ 
back  a  bare^  and  not  modest  people,  even  among  tne 
moral  heathens.  Therefore  those  that  profesj  ^^ 
knowledge  of  true  Christianity  ahould  be  aahanw  ^ 
of  such  things.  You  may  see  a  book  written  by  ^** 
very  Papists,  and  another  by  Richard  Baxter  *"^ 
Presbyterian,  against  bare  breaata  and  bare  bi^*^ 

A  S. 

Sweep's   Sign,— 1    copied    the    fol1o«*^^ 
from  a  sign  over  a  aweep^a  door  in  We»"*^^ 

1890  :— 

Thomafi  Matthew*!  livetb  here, 
Sweeps  CbimiieyB  clean  and  not  too  dcftr. 
Cleans  Smoke  Jacks  at  yotir  deaire. 
And  puta  out  Chimneya  when  on  fire* 


9»&vilafeil27.i9oi.)     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


327 


Benst  in.  pjiWKa  AN  Image  ok  tbb  Viegin* 
—The  Gascon  Close  Roll  of  27  Henry  III. 
(ed.  Fmnciaque  Miclial,  1885,  p.  im.  No.  1250) 
coEitaias    the    autharity    following,    datc^cl 

"Mmdaiani  eHt  Ji^hAnni  Miunsel  quud^  ijuia 
Rej  aiicnifiefevit  quod  turn  hal>el  in  capolla  Rcgia 
vidJA  ti9que  a.d  sunimnin  ct\  rjiajt;ftrum|  quod 
llii&ginom  lancte  Marie  i/recjo^oreni  impignoreti 
ita  quod  in  loeo  honeuto  deijou&tur" 

One  would  hardly  expect  this  frora  so  pioua 
4  pemon  aa  Henry  KL  Q.  V 

Ahthony  FoETxacuE.— There  memn  to  be 
room  to  doubt  whether  the  '  Diet.  Nat,  Biog./ 
vol  XX,  p.  37,  was  right  in  following  Lord 
Clermours  *  Hist  Fam,  Forteacue*  (1869), 
p.  3*>7,  and  identifying  (1)  Anthony  Forteacue, 
third  mil  of  Sir  Adrian  (beheaded  1539), 
with  (2)  Anthony  Forteacue,  who  married 
Katharine^  daughter  of  Sir  Geoffrey  Pole,  of 
Lordington,  Sushox,  and  became  i^teward  to 
his  wife*a  uncle,  Cardinal  Pole,  and  who  in 
October,  1562  (not  1561,  as*  Htated  in  the  '  Die- 
tionarj*'),  was  arrested  with  hts  brother«-in-Iaw 
on  a  charge  of  conspiracy,  of  which  they  were 
subsequently  convicted.  References  to  the 
latter  Anthony  Forteacue  will  be  found  in 
•  Act«  of  Privy  Council,'  N.S.,  voL  vii.  pp.  5,  7  ; 
Gal  State  Papers:  Spanish,  1558-67,  pp,  262, 
29»,  331  ;  Foreign.  1562,  p.  424 ;  Foreign,  1563, 
pp.  i7,33S.  The  *  Dictionary '  ignoras  the  aup- 
gesttion  that  he  was  living  at  Lorrlington  in 
1585  (see  *  Sussex  Arch^,  Coll.,*  voL  xxi, 
pp.  86^7  ;  and  cf,  Cai.  State  Papers,  Domestic, 
1581-90,  pp,  247,  277,  351  ;  Foley,  VHecords  of 
English  Jeanita,'  vol.  vi,  pp.  721,  724  730). 
Intil  better  evidence  be  furnished,  the 
identity  of  Sir  Adrian's  son  and  the  con- 
apirator  caonot  be  regarded  as  establinhed 
becaoae:^ 

1-  According  to  HarL  Soc.  pub.,  voL  xxiv. 

p.    %    a    marriage    licence   for    **  Anthony 

Fortescue  and  Katherine  Poole,  gent.,  dioc, 

Chichester,"  was  granted  on  20  May,  1544. 

-f^rima  /acif^  this  ficence  relates  to  the  mar- 

tiage  of  the  cardinaPs  njeca    Lord  Clermont 

<2iteti  no  authority  for  his  statement  that  the 

t^iAiriage  took  place  "about  the  year  1658." 

2-  According  to  Lord  Clerraont^  Sir  Adrian's 
^on  Anthony— born,  he  says,  between  1535 
^Lnd  1539— was  the  Anthonv  Fortescue,  Win- 
chester scholar,  who  helped  to  welcome  Ed- 
'Xward  Vr.  when  he  visited  the  college.  The 
Ai^iHit  occurred  in  1552  (Leach,  *  Hist.  Win. 
CJoU.;  p.  281). 

3,  According  to  Kirby's  *  Winchester  Scho- 
1  «ra/ thtH  scholar  (admitted  1 549,  ag&i  fourteen, 
^*f  Brightwel!)  became  Fellow  of  New  Coll, 
Oxford,  1554-64;  KO.L.;  recUyr  of  SimoadE^ 


bury:  ** deprived  by  Cardinal  Pole."  CL 
Hutchins'fl  'Dorset,'  vol.  ii.  p.  244,  which 
shows  that  an  Anthony  Forteacue  was  rector 
of  Simondsbury  in  1562,  and  that  the  patron 
wlio  presentecl  his  successor  in  1583  was  a 
Thoma.s  Fortescue,  Esq.  These  details  of  the 
scholar's  cai'eer  were  apparently  unknown  to 
Lord  Clermont 

In  the  light  of  what  has  been  said,  it  is 
dilHcult  to  believe  that  the  scholar  and  the 
conspirator  were  one  person.  Perhaps  some 
reader  who  ha^  made  a  studv  of  the  Fortescuo 
family  will  deal  with  the  subject  effectually. 

H.  C 

Wk  mutit  r^itieat  correBpondeuts  deBirii];^  infor- 

matiou  on  fatnily  mattera  of  only  priv&te  mterest 
to  affix  their  names  and  oddresaes  to  their  querioR, 
irv  order  that  the  anawers  maybe  i^drefwed  to  them 
direct. 

ViHiTATioK  Nuns  at  Chelsea,  1799.— la 
anything  known  about  *Hhe  ladies  of  tlie 
Order  of  St.  Francis  de  Sales  at  Balesian 
House,  South  How,  Queen's  Elms,  near  Ful- 
ham  Road,  Little  Chelsea  "t  The  above 
description  is  found  in  the  *  Catholic  Direc- 
tory '  for  1799,  p.  20,  In  that  for  1808  a  Miss 
Berthc  announces  that^  "having  succeeded  the 
ladies  of  St  Francis  de  Sales/  dec,  she  *^  con- 
tinues to  educate  young  ladies/'  6cg.  In  the 
early  history  of  the  Convent  of  the  Visitation 
Nuns  founded  at  Acton  in  1804  (moved  to 
Shepton  Mallet  1810,  to  Westburyon'Tryni 
in  1831,  and  to  Harrow -on -the- Hill  in  1896) 
there  i^  no  mention  or  hint  of  any  con- 
nexion with  or  knowledge  of  these  ''' ladies 
of  St.  Francis  de  Sales,"  H.  W.  M. 

Dowiuiide. 

Excavations  nbab  Cieencisstbe.— The  late 
John  Yonge  Akerman,  F,S»A.,  reported  to 
the  Society  of  Antiquaries  on  21  December, 

1B65,  with  respect  to  a  Roman  Vicinal  Way 
in  Wiltshire  and  East  Gloucestershire,  and  to 
a  fHscnvery  of  a  Roman  sarcophagus  and 
other  remains  near  Easting  ton.  He  ex- 
pressed a  liope  that  other  excavations  might 
fx^  ma^le  there,  and  predicted  very  satis- 
factory rrsults.  Has  any  such  excavation 
ever  taken  place?  If  so,  wliere  can  any 
account  of  it  be  seen  ? 

T.  Canw  Hughbs,  M.A, 
I^iicAster. 

CouKTV  AsBEVs.—Where  can  I  find  par- 
ticulars of,  and  where  were  located,  the 
following  abbess?  Aureoll^  Bensale,  BoYulodv 
Brad  stow  e,  Baml   B«eft   ot   ^\  gK\  \;;,^iA^^&^ 


328 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [y^8.viLAFiuLtg7.iwi. 


Cristal  (YorksX  Doraley,  Fisthm;  Saiiitana 
( Yorks),  GisbornG(Yorks),  Laugton,  Motbeley, 
Mewa,  Neuahed  of  Newsted,  Newjnton,  Saint 
Osiica  (Essex),  Kegali  Loco»  Kedmgton,  Rey- 
luaiis,  BeiatwoJde,  fcmthwyke,  Suthani,  Tfiowey 
<Caiubs),  Saint  Thomas  of  Pounfoixl,  Thim- 
mothe,  Thaderhyl»  Twierclmge*  Wandeley* 
Vawria]!,  Worsbop  (I  Worksop).  Can  I  and 
any  particulars  of  them,  or  oltl  prints  of  them 
or  any  of  them,  at  the  British  Museum  I 

John  A»  Handolph* 
128,  Akxfliidrtt  RoBwi,  Wimbkdou. 

tCotisnlt  Dr.  W.  Beatlie'a  *  Castles  and  Abbeys 
of  KiigUnd/  Dagdiile'a  '  Monasticau/  Willia^m  and 
hlskry  Howitt'fl  *  Buincd  Abbeys  and  Castles  of 
Gr^t  Britain'  (aJl  three  illu&tratedK  and  Timbfi*B 
'Abbcyts,  Castles,  and  Aiident  HallB  of  England 
atid  Wales.'] 

**I  BIT  ON  A  EOCK,"  — Can  any  of  the 
immeroua  readers  of  *  IC.  sfe  Q*'  give  the  solu- 
tion of  the  following  ancient  riddle,  or  state 
in  what  book  it  can  be  found  ]  Who  was  the 
real  composer? — 

I  sit  on  a  rock  whibt  I  *m  ratsiiiB  the  wind. 
But,  the  storm  once  abated,  I  'iii  gentle  and  kind  ; 
1  *ve  kinK»  at  ray  fe«t  who  await  but  rtjy  nod 
To  kneel  in  the  dust  on  the  ground  I  have  trod. 
Though  Been  to  the  world,  I  am  known  but  to  few  ; 
The  Gentile  detests  rae,  I  'ni  pork  t<i  the  Jew  t 
I  never  have  jwiaied  but  one  ni^ht  in  the  dark, 
And  that  was  with  Noab  alone  m  the  ark. 
My  weight  is  threo  iiotmdfif  my  longth  ta  a  inilo^ 
And  when  I^ni  discovered  you'll  aay  with  a  smile 
That  luy  lirst  and  my  last  are  the  best  of  our  lale. 

AH  the  information   I  have   been    able   to 
obtain  regarding  it  is  as  follows  :— 

**  forty  yoars  a|K>  I  came  across  a  volume  of 
l)oeUeat  pieces  nubitahed  by  subscription.  The 
author^s  na.me  I  forget.  Amongst  the  smaller  pieces 
at  the  end  of  the  book  was  the  riddle  of  which  the 
above  is  only  a  fragnieijU  It  was  called  *The 
Bishop^B  Ridale/  and  Api>ended  waa  a  note  tftating 
that  the  bishop—t  fonget  his  title— had  offered  a 
pri^e  for  the  bc^t  aolutioUp  The  riddle  was  said  to 
l>e  then  old  an<i  the  solotkon  loit.  After  the  riddle 
eanie  the  author'a  solution  in  the  aanie  rhymioK 
style  I  and  after  it  a  letter  from  the  bishop  eom- 
niendin}^  It  as  most  ingenious  and  well  considered. 
Whether  or  not  it  framed  the  priKO  I  cannot  say. 
All  1  remember  now  is  the  Hrst  line, 

In  a  rock -but  It  church  1,  the  GoBjiel,  do  sit. 
Porham  some  uorresitondent  with  this  clue  may 
read  the  riddle/' 

G.  Stewaet  Sinton. 

Kitigtusie^  N3. 

[Mr.  J.  P.  OwiLN  gave  at  ^^  H.  v.  332  his  vertiiied 
solution  of  this  riddle «  Soe  also  1*^  S.  ii.  10,  77 ; 
xii.  m>,  mi.] 

'  To  M  ABtuEET  W ■:    {See  9^»*  S.  vi.  309.) 

—May  I  ask  again,  since  I  ani  most  desirous 
ol  the  Information,  who  waa  this  Margaret 
to  whom   Char  log  Lamb  addr^B€id  \m  Va^at 


Duration  of  Life  ih  Bbbi>s.  (beeoB**, 
p.  129.)--I  should  be  glad  to  learn  whether 
the  extraordinary  vitality  of  ox-eye,  wh»L 
and  thistle  seeds  is  shared  by  the  seeds  of 
the  small  daisy,  Bdlu  perenntM.        Mkgak. 

*The  Pursuit  of  Plbasuee.'— 1  have  l»efl 
asked  by  a  lady  friend  in  Califonaa  to  fiiM^ 
out,  if  pos.sibIe,  what  poem  inspirejl  bit  S^o^ 
Faton  to  paint  ^  The  Pursuit  of  IHeasura  I 
have  made  inquiry  in  every^  way  1  com 
think  of,  and  finally  appeal  to  you. 

J  >   ly.,   W  ATSOW* 

i,  GolUnKWOod  Villas,  8toke,  Devonport. 

[There  seems  no  cause  to  believe  the  iiictnrt 
inHi>irod  by  a  I'oeni  or  by  anything  but  the  obwsrvij 
lion  that  all  classes  uuite  in  the  mad  purauit  (H 


plea^ureO 

Mrjs.  Charles  Aubuthkot,— Wbii  wba  Mn 

Charles  Arbuthnot,  wife  ol  the  EiRht  Uoa 
Charles  Arbuthnot,  the  Duke  of  WeQmgton^ 
friend,  before  she  was  married  1    Sf UDKSt* 

(The  fimt  Mrs,  Arbuthnot  was  a  dao^Jer  QJ 
WiUiam  Clapcoit  Lisie  and  a  granddaughter  « 
the  Marquess  of  Cholmondeley.  The  second  ^ 
Harriet,  third  daughter  of  the  Hon.  Henry  sm- 
See  mile^  pp.  231,  298,] 

Byron's  Poem  on  Greeck.-'C*ii  anymck 
of  '  N.  &  Q/  supply  me  with  the  lines  wntten 
by    a  lady  in  i-eply    to   Byron's   poem  m 
Greece  ?    They  begin  thus  ;— 
Knowest  thou  the  land  wher«   the  hardy  grt« 

The  bright  bfoomiug  heath,  and  the  hairbell  abouJ>^' 

Box  Family  of  Yorks?hihe.— Dan  any. of 
the  readers  of  'N.  &  Q.'  give  informftPoo 
a.s  to  the  immediate  descendants  of  JohnBoi 
(or  Boox)  and  Alice  his  wnfe,  of  Pontei^s 
and  also  of  the  pansh  of  St.  Alphege-willnn- 
Cripplegate,  who  died  after  1400 1  He  **5 
the  son  of  John  Box,  member  of  Parliaajent 
for  Pontefract  in  1337.  I  also  want  m 
Christian  name  of  and  further  inform*tK»o 

respecting Box,  the  father  of  Thort»» 

James  (rector  of  Barn  borough,  near  Donc»iite''i 
1541-59),  Ezabell  (whose  will  is  extW^A 
and  Jenett,  wife  of  Hughe  Bell-all  of  m^ 
boratigh.  He  was  born  probably  about  i^ 
and  died  before  1530.  Any  informatiuE  «" 
be  received  with  thanks.  JoaiFH  Bol. 

Avenue  Lodge*  Ealing,  W- 

Peter  Leicekteil--I  shall  be  very  mi»™ 
obliged  if  any  reader  can  help  me  to  defiaiw 
information  about  the  birthplace  and  pai^"^'' 
ago  of  Peter  Leicester,  of  Halton,  Chmu^ 
who  was  buried  at  Newton  in  177^  Ji* 
v^vetity-seven.    He  is  believed  to  havew* 


9»  8.  vu.  apkil  27. 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


329 


8ir  Peber  Leycester,  of  Tabley^aind  to  have 
been  a  Quaker,  Thomas  Williams. 

Aston  Clmtoo,  Triog. 

Ekgisteb  of  Bibths  on  Towbe  Hill.— 
Whore  Hhall  I  bo  likely  to  find  registered  a 
birth  that  took  plat^  on  Tower  Hillin  1641  ? 
D0NAI.D  Fercu&on, 

Sabgent  Family. —  I  want  information 
ftbout  iSargent  of  Wool  Lavington,  co,  Suiwsex, 
md  Sargent  (afterwards  Arnold)  of  Hals  ted 
Place,  CO.  Sent.  Can  anj;  one  refer  rae  to  a 
fiubltsbed  pedigree  ol  tiiia  family,  or  to  any 
ine  who  possesses  a  pedigree  thereof  1 

F.  Larpent. 

Sydenhajn. 

AKegimknt  that  decuwed  to  go  to  India, 
—A  curious  story  is  told,  in  the  Hev,  John 
liicbie's  *  Beeside  Tales,*  of  the  refusal  of  the 
r7fch  Regiment  to  go  to  India  in  1783  (or  is  it 
1789  I),    The  regiment  declared  that 
If  H  were  to  fight  with  France  or  6pain, 
With  pleuure  we  would  cma^  the  main  ; 
But  lor  like  buHocka  to  be  bI&iu, 
Our  Highland  blood  abhors  it, 

Phe  question  is  said  to  have  been  discussed  in 
^rliament,  and  the  regiment  was  disbanded 
t  Perth.  The  colonel  of  the  regiment  wa^ 
Charles  Gordon,  who  died  in  1789,  Where 
An  I  find  an  account  of  the  incident! 

J.  M.  Bulloch. 
118,  PoJI  MalL 

"  C  A  NO  USB."— 

"A  pretioua  water  for  sorea  otde  or  newe.— Take 
uioUfl«  that  leather  ncuer  uanie  in,  a  pottle  of  the 
Mt  worte,  a  gallon  of  Lee  made  of  wood  ashea 
ig«ather ;  then  lake  roche  allume  imd  of  the  croppe 
'  mather  aaa  iiij  ounces :  boile  them  togeather  a 
ttle  and  putt  it  into  an  earthen  pott  and  couer  it 
oae  and  lett  it  stand  till  you  haue  neede  thereof 
healei  all  maner  of  aores  olde  or  newe." 

Ilia  ifi  from  VArcana  Fairfaxiana.'  What  is 
oanouse  "  1    The  "  H.KD  J  does  not  help  me. 

c,  a  B. 

[**  Canouac  "  is  not  in  the  *  E.D.D^I 

William  Mohehead,  1637-92.— The  *Dict 
at.  Biog.,'  vol  xxjcix,  p.  1,  states,  in 
m  life  of   William    Morenead^    author   of 

iMchrymvs .Scotite     sub    discetisum 

eorgii  Monachi'  (London,  1660X  that  this 
nthor  was  a  nephew  of  Qeoeral  Monck,  but 
oes  not  explain  how  he  was  such.  Can  any 
^er  su[)ply  the  exjjlanation  1  Two  autho* 
.ties  to  which  the  *  Dictiooary '  omits  to  refer 
t  the  end  of  the  life  ai^  Baker's  *  History  of 
fort  ha  mpton  shire,*  vol.  i.  p.  755,  and  Fosters 
Alumni  Oxon.,  1500-1714,  p.  1027.  Accord - 
ig  to  the  }mlter,  the  WWmm  Moovbead  who 


in  1657  became  student  of  Gray's  Inn,  as  son 
and  heir  of  William  Moorhead,  of  Farnham, 
Surrey,  Esq.,  wa^  tho  same  person  as  the 
above  author,  H.  C. 

Duke  of  Normandy,— Can  you  or  any  of 
your  readers  inform  me  which  of  our  English 
sovereigns  dropped  the  title  of  Duke  or 
Duchess  of  Normandy  ?  I  hive  several  his- 
torie-s  in  my  library^  but  have  failed  to  find 
in  them  the  required  information.  1  have  a 
somewhat  hazy  notion,  however,  that  it  was 
her  late  Majesty  the  Queen,  who  in  the  early 
part  or  in  the  middle  of  her  reign,  out  of 
consideration  for  French  susceptibilities,  can- 
celled this  useless  and  nnmoaninR  *Hitle " 
fl-om  the  roll  of  her  numerous  affixes, 

G.  Le  M. 

Flower  Game.— Is  there  any  trace  left 
of  the  pastime  to  which  Scott  alludes  in 
*Quentin  Durward  '  and  from  what  source 
could  he  have  drawn  his  knowledge? 
**  They  grow  not  in  the  fields  like  the  dafFodila 
with  whose  stalks  children  make  knights' 
collars,"  E.  M.  Weight. 

Univkrsity  DiiGBEEs  :  LL.D.,  D.D.,  M.D. 
--In  some  pre  -  lieformation  universiti^ 
founded  by  Popes  chancellors  were  nomi* 
nated  liy  them  and  empowered  to  confer  the 
degrees  of  doctor  in  the  three  learned  pro- 
fessions!.  Do  the  chancellor  now  represent 
tho  sovereign,  and  are  these  degree*?  conferred 
in  the  name  of  the  sovereign  f  Is  it  on  this 
ground  that  precedence  is  given  to  university 
doctors  before  esquires?  If  the  degree  are 
conferred  in  the  name  of  the  sovereign,  are 
United  States  and  other  foreign  degrees 
worthy  of  respect  or  recognieaole  in  this 
country  1  When  did  the  form  LL.D.  take 
the  place  of  J.U.D.  1  One  of  Them. 

[Ths  value  of  certain  American  univrersity  degrees 
was  discussed  at  much  length,  8^**  8.  vL  209,  '273, 
a'jri,  4:16 ;  viU  36,  117,  217,  433;  vliL  a%  under  the 
heading  "Tiiaculnni  Uoi^uraity.*] 

Ambrose  DuDLisy  Mank,  the  diplomatist, 

has  wiitten  his  *  Memoirs,'  which  were  in 
1888  ready  for  publication,  according  to 
Apple ton^s  *  Encyclopit?dia  or  American  Bio- 
gr'aphy,'  Have  they  been  published  ;  and 
if  not,  what  has  become  of  the  MS.  1 

Fliout  o^  King  Jambs  from  Ireland.— 
There  is  now  exhibited  in  Sir  Henry  Tate's 
noble  gift  to  the  nation,  the  Gallery  of  British 
Art,  'A  Lost  Cause:  Flight  of  James  the 
Second/  by  A,  C  Gow,  R,iL  Jts^TOSja  \^  \^^\^- 
seated  as  d<jHc<and\ii^  ^xafe  ^^'^ft  Xia  \;ak^  Nsk^ 
to  board  Uio  ^""mnviu  v«»»d  \i&>ikt»»u\\ia^  ^v;>^r 


330 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    t9»8.viLAFWL27,i»L 


ing  for  him  near  Waterford.  The  ungratefal 
king's  departure  from  Ireland,  whoso  people 
staked  life  and  property  in  his  cause,  was 
apparently  witnessed  by  a  retinue  of  seven 
cavaliers  and  two  soldiers.  I  shall  be  much 
obliged  by  any  information  respecting  the 
names  of  the  cavaliers. 

Henry  Gerald  Hope. 
119,  Elms  Road,  Clapham,  8.W. 

Authors  of  Quotations  Wanted.— 

We  live  in  deeds  not  years,  in  thoughts  not  breaths. 

In  feelinss,  not  in  tiji^res  on  a  dial. 

We  should  count  time  by  heart-throbs.    He  most 

lives 
Who  thinks  most,  feels  the  noblest,  acts  the  best. 
Jt  matters  not  how  long  we  live,  but  how. 

Rejoice  that  man  is  hurled 
From  change  to  change  unceasingly. 
His  souFs  wings  never  furled. 

H.  J.  B.  C. 
[We  recall  something  similar  to  the  first,  but  not 
identioal,  in  Baiiejr's  'Festus.*] 

A  ship  came  sailing  o'er  the  sea ; 

The  waves  were  onsp,  the  wind  was  free. 


My  ship  comes  sailing  o'er  the  sea. 
To  you  a  myth,  a  world  to  me. 

P.  J.  T. 
Thou  cam'st  not  to  thy  place  by  accident ; 
It  is  the  very  place  God  meant  for  thee. 

G.  C. 
The  priest  shall  slay  the  slayer. 
And  shall  himself  be  slain. 

T.  Cann  Hughes,  M.A. 

[From  the  still  g^lassy  lake  that  sleeps 

Beneath  Aricia's  trees— 
Those  trees  in  whose  dim  shadow 

The  ghastly  priest  doth  reign. 
The  pnest  who  slew  the  slayer. 

And  shall  himself  be  slain. 
Macaulay's  '  Battle  of  the  Lake  Regillus.' 
These  lines  serve  as. an  introductory  motto  to  Dr, 
Frazer's  *  Golden  Bough.'] 


SHAKESPEARE  THE  "KNAVISH." 
(9"*  S.  vii.  162,  256.) 
Mr.  AxoN*s  discovery  brings  out  a  hitherto 
annoticed  reference  to  Shakespeare  by  name, 
and  may  perchance  o]3en  out  that  true  life 
of  tbe  poet,  as  distinguished  from  a  mythical 
and  apologetic  one,  for  which  Mr.  Halliwell- 
Phillipps  sighed,  and  of  which  he  despaired 
(*  Outlines,'  ninth  edition). 

That  the  absolutely  dark  five  years  1587-92 

contained  much    material    for   comment  is 

clear  from  the  Greene-Chettle  lampoonery ; 

that  Shakespe&re  winced  under  this  follows 

ftx)m    his  forcing    a    meek    apoVogy    irom 

Chettle;  tiiat  he  had  both  power  and  in- 


fluence to  suppress  it  is  plain  from  the 
paucity  thenceforth  of  nominal  attacks.  Out 
of  ninety-nine  Shakespearian  allusions  in 
Dr.  Ingleby's  'Century  of  Prayae'  only 
twenty-two  mention  his  name,  although  the 
most  important  —  that  from  'Parnassus'  — 
speaks  ot  his  "  hart-robbinj;  life,"  a  somewhat 
equivocal  compliment,  which  Mr.  Lee  omits 
altogether,  although  I  had  called  his  atten- 
tion to  it.  In  fact,  Mr.  Lee  will  not  quote 
Sir  John  Harington  at  all,  even  as  to  his 
stating  in  '  Ajax  *  that  he  had  witnessed  the 
farce  from  which  Shakespeare  subsequently 
adapted  'The  Taming  of  the  Shrew.'  Bat 
though  pens  could  be  controlled,  tongues  were 
free.  There  was  then  in  London  a  great 
lady,  author  herself  and  a  i>atron  of  authoni 
whose  warm-hearted  eulogies  have  won  for 
her  aft«r  three  centuries  a  niche  in  '  D.N.B.' 
as  Lucy  Russell,  Countess  of  Bedford.  She 
held  what  we  now  term  a  "salon,"  and 
received  all  the  wits  and  poets^  amongst 
whom,  however,  Shakespeare,  ranking  only  as 
a  player,  was  not  admitted.  He  shared  the 
proverbial  fate  of  the  absent,  and  his  name 
was  of  perennial  interest  to  hostess,  her 
family,  and  guests.  These  last  envied  his 
adaptive  powers,  his  riche^  his  rapid  rise^ 
and  his  reluctance  to  part  with  money. 

The  hostess  was  a  Warwickshire  lady, 
daughter  of  Lord  Harington  of  Combe 
Abbey,  and  knew  all  about  the  Shakespeam 
at  home.  Her  cousin  Sir  John  HariDgtoo, 
the  queen's  godson,  was  a  playgoer,  tad 
could  tell  Lady  Bedford  any  quantity  of 
small  talk  about  the  brilliant  transformer  of 
other  people's  ideas  for  his  own  benefit 

Both  parties  in  the  coterie  would  use  their 
opportunities.  The  wits  would  talk  of  bor- 
rowed plumes,  of  Jack  Factotum  transformios 
other  people's  plays,  of  hart-robbioR  m 
"fellony  of  ragged  groomes"  who  haa  ben 
horses  at  theatre  doors,  of  mimic  apea,  oc 
"shoddy  esquires"  and  their  lust  for  ooit 
armour.  Ben  Jonson's  fifty-sixth  ^W^ 
has  always  been  held  to  apply  to  oatkB-^ 
speai;e,  and  is  intituled  '  To  the  Poet  Ape. 
In  his  prologue  to  the  *  Poetaster,'  IflOl,  m 
asks,  "  Are  there  no  players  here,  no  Po«J 
Apes?"  and  aeain,  "Baise  detractors  •»" 
illiterate  Apes  !^ 

"Ratsev's  Ghost,"  always  applied  toSbak^^ 
speare,  follows  suit  But  from  the  hoetO"' 
side  Sir  John  Harington  cheerfully  tt^*! 
out  the  Stratford  view  in  his '  Nug»  Antiq^^ 
(ed.  1804,  by  Park  and  MaloneX  vol.  I  p^l*' 

**  There  is  a  great  show  of  popularytee  in  pblfj 
small  game— as  we  have  heara  of  one  that  iWJl 
Tl«bm^«BaVVMl2»^aA&  he  was  not  blamekMi)  (ktttnii 

\  f\l<QOVrQ!C^  «MkN«ll  ^  ^Bra^NjtA  VBMIBC  THMii  i* 


t 


9»  &  viL  apbil  27. 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


331 


&;oitiK«in  playti«at>parell»  had  stolen  so  Tnany  hariei 
(for  1  do  not  say  he  came  trewly  by  them)  tKat  hee 
waa  accuse*!  of  more  than  fellony  "  (p.  *225). 

"Pyratea  by  iM?a»  robbers  by  land,  have  beoi:}me 
ootkeftt  subatanccall  merij  as  we  call  them,  and 
purchaa«!rs  of  more  bwfull  purchas  "  (p.  226). 

**  With  the  ruyn  tjf  infant  young  gentlemeu  the 
dyeing  box  maintains  a  hungry  famyloe," 

Harttigton,  mindful  of  Chettle't*  fate,  here 
describe!} a d^L-Htealer  charged  with  "fellony," 
who  goes*  about  in  common  clotlies*  and  in- 
duce^i  yeomen  to  play  at  some  kind  of  pitch 
and  tosH  where  he  rooks  them  by  double- 
headed  groata  ;  he  cheats  the  better  class  by 
cagged  dice,  and  supports  hia  "  hungry 
famylee"  by  the  "ruyn''  of  infant  young 
gentlemen  ;  by  hie  'Vpyraticall  "  gains  ho  has 
b^en  able  to  purchase  real  property.  So 
mmny  of  these  points  unite  in  Shakespeare 
th&t  it  is  hard  to  see  how  it  can  be  meant  fiir 
any  one  else.  But  there  is  independent  con- 
temporan€30us  evidence  to  support  it^  with  a 
use  of  Shakespeare's  name  exactly  like  tliat 
in  Greene's  lampoon^  to  which  Shakespeare 
owned  up. 

In  Middleton's  works  by  Bullen,  vol.  viii. 
p.  127,  is  printed  '  Microcynicon,'  published  by 
preede.  1599.  The  fourth  satire  on  cheating 
is  headed  'Cheating  Droone,'  and  describe-s 
a  man  with  an  actor*.s  gift  of  "  make  up  "  and 
changea  of  dress.  He  haunts  "Powim"  to 
pick  up  yeomen,  and  employs  toutJi  to  decoy 
them.  He  take.^  them  to  a  tavern,  entertains 
them  hospitably, and  rooks  them  soroetirae?*  up 
to  lo;.  (100^.  now)  (I  85);  and  the  victims  when 
cleaned  out  do  not  i^ent  it,  but  are  afraid  to 
Cf>mp]ain.  As  there  is  no  charge  of  violence, 
it  is  clear  that  the  affair  was  managed  by 
gambling,  as  at  Crt>ckfoH'3,  The  s wee t- sing- 
Uig  youth  is  named  Skake-mg  (1.  53),  remind- 
ing one  of  Greene's  Skakegetme. 

One  word  more.  Both  Simpson  and  Dr 
Orcksart  identify  Doron  in  *  Menaphon '  as 
Hieant  for  Shake.speare  j  and  the  great  mass 
of  Elizal>ethan  satire  may  have  more  to  tell 
^a  if  Me.  Axon  will  search  it 

W.  G,  Thorpe,  F,S.A. 
20,  LarkhaURiso,  S.W. 


^'B^tL  APTD  Last"  (9^^  S,  vii,  128,  254)*— 
The  **  Bull  and  Last "  haa  nothing  in  common 
\with  cobbler  or  cordwainer,  nor  with  a 
journey  from  London.  It  was  the  "Bull'* 
tnarking  the  last  stage  for  coach  or  waggon 
^n  the  old  roa*i  from  the  North  to  London 
Vrt-^t  of  the  City  before  the  Archway  road 
vras  cut  through  the  eastern  .slope  of  High - 
Mte  HilL  I  can  remember  the  building  of 
€be  "  Duke  of  St,  Alban's  "  on  the  site  of  the 
lodge  at  the  gate«  oi  &u  old  country  house  at 


the  south  comer  of  Swain's  Lane  about  the 
year  1850. 

While  writing  on  public- house  signs  may 
1  hazard  a  conjecture  that  the  ** Queen's  Head 
and  Artichoke"  on  an  inn  at  the  corner  of  a 
street  just  south  of  the  CaAalry  Barracks 
in  Albany  Street  may  refer  to  Mary,  "the 
French  Qu^n,"  sister  of  Henry  VIIL,  who 
married  Charles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk? 
In  the  picture  of  the  pair,  well  known  by 
Vertue'fl  engraving,  the  royal  lady  has  an 
artichoke  in  her  right  hand.  The  house 
seems  to  have  been  an  old  tavern  on  the 
patli  leading  from  I>ondon  towards  the  wells 
and  gardens  of  Kilburn  and  Hampstaad. 

HiCHARD  K.  Holmes, 

Eoyal  Library,  Windsor  Cast  It;. 

Anthony  ue  Solicmni;^  the  Fikht  Printer 

AT  NoRWiCH,  1565^80  (9^  S.  vii.  241).— If 
Mr.  NoRfiATE  will  turn  Uj  p,  35  of  the  Cata- 
logue of  the  Caxton  Exhibition  he  will  find 
a  note  of  three  Norwich  books  exhibited  by 
the  present  Lord  Andierst,  amongst  them 
being  a  copy  of  the  sermons  of  B.  Cornells 
Adriaensen,  1578,  of  which  the  only  other 
known  copy  is  in  Trinity  College,  Dublin. 
E.  GoRiioN  Duff. 

LocATIo^'  OF  Theatre  (9^  S.  vii.  269),— The 
Theatre  lloyal,  George's  Street,  Plymouth,  is 
probably  the  one  W-  W.  A.  wishes  to  identify. 
It  was  built  from  the  designiit  of  the  late  Mr. 
Foulaton,  and  opened  on  23  August,  1813. 
Mr.  James  Doel,  the  oldest  actor  in  the 
United  Kingdom  —  perhaps  in  thft  world 
(who,  hale  and  strong,  resides  at  Stonehousa, 
Plymouth,  and  celebrated  his  ninety -seventh 
birthday  anniversary  upon  13  March  last) — 
has  frequently  performed  thera 

Harry  Hems. 
Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

The  town  in  question  is  Cork, 

Wm.  Douglas. 

H AND- RO  LINO  IN   OlD   TlTLE- PAGES  (9^'    S. 

vii.  169). — We  meet  not  merely  with  title- 
pages,  but  sometimes  entire  volumes  pro- 
auced  within  the  seventeenth  century,  which 
bear  unmistakable  evidence  of  having  been 
ruled  by  hand.  I  possess  a  copy  of  Addy's 
'Shorthand  Bible,'  printed  from  engraved 
plates,  every  page  of  which  contains  six 
red  linas,  all  ruled  by  hand.  There  are  two 
lines  at  the  top,  one  down  each  side  of  the 
page,  one  at  the  bottom,  and  one  down 
the  centre  separating  the  columns.  As  the 
volume  comprises  some  four  hundred  pages, 
these  linos  alone  number  no  fewct  tfcww 
2,400,    There  ftre  a\^  l^ft  ^^t\  \\ti^^sv^ 


332 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     E9»^8.vilapiiil27.i«i. 


There  can  be  no  question  as  to  their  having 
been  drawn  bv  hand,  because  there  are  not 
merely  inequalities  in  length,  but  on  com- 
paring a  duplicate  copy  with  my  own  I 
find  there  are  numerous  minute  variations 
such  as  would  not  have  been  met  with  had 
the  lines  been  printed.  The  time  and  labour 
and  consequent  expense  involved  in  such  a 
task  must  have  increased  the  cost  of  each 
copy  very  considerably.  The  ruling  in  those 
days  was  done  by  men  specially  retained  by 
publishers  for  that  purpose. 

Alexander  Patebson. 
Bamsley. 

Source  of  Quotation  (9'*»  S.  vii.  8,  292).— 
No.  3  is  from  O'Keefe's  musical  farce  *The 
Poor  Soldier.'  Wm.  Douglas. 

D'AuvEBONE   Family  (9"»  S.  vii.  68,  117, 

176,  191,  251,  277).— See  an  article  by  A.  A. 

•  Bethune  -  Baker   in   Journal   of   Ex  -  Libris 

Society,  vol.  vii..  upon  '  Book-plate  of  Philip 

d'Auvergne,  Duke  of  Bouillon.^ 

PUTEANUS. 

Voltaire  gives  a  whole  chapter  to  the  peers 
of  France,  and  he  evidently  applies  the 
term  to  the  ancient  barons:  '*Mais  on  de- 
mande  quels  etaient  les  pairs  de  France?" 
Ac.  (*Histoire  du  Parlement  de  Paris,' 
chap.  viii.).  E.  Yardley. 

Funeral  Cards  (9"»  S.  vii.  88, 171,  291).— 

*'  Upon  his  [Col.  Mannering^s]  return  to  the  inn 
he  found  a  card  inviting  him  to  the  funeral  of  Miss 
•Margaret  Bertram,  late  of  Singleside,  which  was 
to  proceed  from  her  own  house  to  the  place  of 
interment  in  the  Greyfriars  churchyard  at  one 
o'clock  afternoon."—*  Guy  Mannering/chap.  xxxvii. 

The  period  of  *  Guy  Mannering,'  after  the 
tenth  chapter,  is  circa  1770. 

Jonathan  Bouchier. 

I  presume  "James  Batty,  Esq.."  should 
read  '*  James  Barry.  Esq.,"  in  Mr.  Eliot 
Hodokin's  note  at  the  last  reference.  The 
date  of  Barry's  death  is  simply  recorded  as 
1806  on  his  monument  in  tne  crypt  of  St. 
Paul's  Cathedral.  I  find,  on  reference  to 
*  Chambers's  Encyclopedia,'  that  he  died  on 
22  February,  1806.  Is  it  a  fact  that  his 
funeral  did  not  take  place  until  seventeen 
days  after?  John  T.  Page. 

West  Uaddon,  Northamptonshire. 

**FivE  o'clock  tea":  When  Introduced 
(fi^  S.  vi.  446;  vii.  13,  96,  176).— In  1766 
William  Dutton,  then  at  Eton  College,  wrote 
home  to  his  father  at  Sherborne,  "I  wish  you 
would  be  so  kind  as  to  let  me  have  tea  and 
sugar  to  drink   in    the  afternoon,  without 


other   boys   of   my  standing."     His   eldest 
brother  was  the  first  Lord  Sherborne-     M. 

In  reference  to  the  above,  in  a  little  brochure 
which  has  lately  come  into  my  posaession, 
and  which  was  written,  I  believe,  in  1878  by 
Rosa  Gebhard,  entitled  *  An  English  Country 
Squire,  as  sketched  at  Harawick  Court, 
Gloucestershire/  which  is  an  illustratioa  of 
the  life  of  Mr.  Barwick  Baker,  who  was  the 
originator  of  the  Hard  wick  Court  Reforma- 
tory, I  find  :— 

"  The  hour  for  the  five  o'clock  tea  had  come.    An 
elderly  lady,  related  to  Mr.  Baker,  told  me  as  fd- 
low8 :  *  1  well  remember  the  time  when  our  fneiKto, 
brothers,  and  sons  returned  from  theCrimeao  War. 
Alas !  how  many  did  not  return !   What  eujojniMBt 
it  was  to  them,  after  the  terrible  privations  of  those 
days,  to  sit  once  more  by  the  warm  fireside,  sor 
rounded  by  their  family !    All  pressed  round  them 
and  listened  to  their  narrative.    Cold  tea  had  Immo 
their  favourite  beverage  in   the   trenches  befon 
Sebastopol.      Hot    tea   with    bread    and    btittor 
appeared  to  them  on  their  return  home  as  nectir 
and  ambrosia.     In  the  oft-repeated  pleasure  we 
enjoyed  in  refreehinff  the  heroes  of  our  famiiMi 
with  their  favourite  oeveraffc  the  old,  strict  tiMi- 
tional  domestic  rule  was  broken,  and  so  began  m 
o'clock  tea,  which  is,  as  it  were,  the  dally  renewed 
commemoration  of  the  return  of  our  wanion;  the 
hour  which,  in  reminding  some  how  much  they  owe 
to  Providence,  recalls  to  others  the  painful  memoiy 
of  bereavements,  causing;  us  to  feel  from  yeir  to 
year    more    peacefully   inclined     towards   otiier 
nations."  _  „, 

P.  W. 

Thackeray  in  *The  Newcomes,*  puUiaW 
in  1855  (ch.  xxxii.),  seems  to  alluae  to  tto 
light  refreshment,  half-way  between  liuwb 
and  dinner,  as  if  it  was  already  a  ^hionvw 
institution  at  the  time  he  wrote.  Daring 
his  courtship  of  poor  Lady  Clara  Pulleyn. 
that  little  cocktail  Barnes  Newcome 

"  comes  [to  her  parents'^  Lord  and  Ladj  Dorkinj^ 
every  day  from  the  City,  drops  in,  m  hl«  t®* 
unobtrusive  way,  and  drinks  tea  at  five  o'doek,  «• 

H.  E.  M. 

St.  Petersburg. 

Animals  in  People's  Insides  (9"»  S.  ^u 
222).— This  superstition  appears  to  be  v«ry 
old ;  it  is  at  any  rate  as  old  as  the  ox- 
teenth  century,  for  in  the  autobiograpb;f  ol 
Benvenuto  Cellini  (Symonds's  transistion) 
we  find  a  similar  affliction  narrated  as  beUl- 
ing  that  great  artist.  Cellini,  it  seems,  had 
a  serious  illness  in  Rome,  and  on  a  mrtal 
recovery  he  was  taken  to  a  house  in  Mooto 
Cavallo.    He  says  :— 

'*  No  sooner  had  I  reached  the  place  than  I  begui 
to  vomit,  during  which  there  came  from  my  stooidi 
a  hairy  worm  about  a  quarter  of  a  cubit  m  kogtii ; 
vVvc^  Vv«\T«  were  long  and  the  worm  mm  very    * 


which  there  ia  no  keeping  compau^  vf  v\i\\  \  avtsci>s\^  ^V  ^vv«c«  ^x^o^sv  ^snna^  bUdk,  and 


i^ 


•»B.viLAFKn,37,iwi.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


333 


Thoy  kept  and  ebowed  ib  to  the  doctor,  who  said 
he  had  never  leen  ftnytbiog  of  the  kind  before." 

As  in  the  cam  of  tJie  sufferer  from  the 
*'aakard  egg"  mentioned  in  'N.  Jt  Q./ 
Ollini^s  worm  appeared  after  drinking 
copiously  of  water.  He  was  **  tormented  by 
thirst,"  but  was  not  allowed  by  his  physicians 
to  drink.  One  day,  however,  he  was  left 
alone  with  a  servant  maid,  and  saw  standing 
in  the  corner  a  crystal  vase  full  of  clear  water. 
Wliat  thirsty  soul  could  resist  the  tempta- 
tion ?  Cellini  at  leaat  could  not,  so  he  said 
to  the  maid  :— 

"  *  If  you  will  bring  it  her©  and  let  me  driok  t« 
my  heart's  con  Lent,  1  will  give  you  &  new  gown/ 
At  once  the  girl  roja  to  fetch  the  veflsel,  &nd>  curry- 
ing it  t4i  the  hedside,  ahe  nut  the  hrimminc  ttiargm 
to  my  U|»,  Twice  did  she  *llow  mo  to  ifnnk  my 
fill,  90  that  iDKOod  earnest  I  swallowed  more  than 
a  fli«k  full*  Toen  I  covered  myself  up  and  imme- 
diately began  to  swe^t.  In  a  tew  moments  I  fell 
into  a  deep  sleep." 

The  result  was  the  appearance  of  the  fear- 
some beast  whose  appearance  Cellini  so 
graphically  describes.  Is  there  anything 
new  under  the  sunt  K.  Olaek. 

Walthamstow. 

The  belief  in  this  species  of  possession  is, 
as  your  correspondent  says,  very  common,  aod 
is  well  illustrated  in  Mr.  Hornung's  fine  novel 
*  Peocavi.'  Several  instances  have  come  under 
my  own  notice.  One  may  l>e  mentioned— 
that  of  a  woman  who  believed  herself  to 
have  swallowed  a  *^  something "  in  her 
drinking-water  from  one  of  our  numerous 
drains.  She  had  been  troubled  with  it  for 
ye&r^,  but  it  was  growing  bigger,  and  would 
5ionietimes  crawl  up  into  her  throat,  almost 
choking  her  She  lived  in  dread  of  its  coming 
out  at  her  mouth,  which  she  was  sure  she 
**  could n*t  abeer,"  Apparently  she  meant 
that  the  mere  horror  of  it  would  kill  her, 
I  recommended  her  to  consult  a  doctor,  but 
Qhe  had  "  tried  %m  all^- ^  and  had  taken  all 
aorts  of  medicine,  both  domestic  and  oflicinal, 
without  avail. 

There  was  a  correspondence  on  this  subject 
in  the  Ouilo<ik  last  year  (I  am  sorry  I  cannot 
give  the  date),  origmatinc  with  a  letter  from 
North  Italy^  where  the  belief  tliat  adders  fre- 
Quently  get  into  people's  inside^^  appears  to 
aonriHh,  and  the  remedy  mentioned  by  J,  T*  F, 
is  practiaed.  This  is,  by  the  way,  an  old  one, 
aa  I  pointed  out  in  the  Outlook  at  the  time, 
and  13  described  with  much  particularity  in 
Prof.  Henslow*a  *  Medical  Works  of  the  Four- 
teenth Centui^;  p,  141.  a  C.  B. 
Epwortb, 

My    wife    in    ber  girlhood    (about    1655) 
attended  a  private  school  in  a  /arga  viUage 


near  Hull,  kept  by  a  certain  Miss  Hebecca 
Jane  E.  Not  only  was  Mis«  E.  herself  a 
person  of  what  was  then  considered  a  good 
education,  but  she  had  two  cousins  who  were 
medical  practitioners.  Her  youngest  sister 
Harriet,  in  her  youth,  being  on  a  picnic  one 
summer  day  in  the  country,  drank  of  some 
spring  or  brook,  and  afterwards  developed  a 
strange  and  unaccountable  malady  which 
completely  set  at  nought  all  medical  atten- 
tion, and  of  which  malady  she  died.  A  tx/ii- 
mot'tem  examination  revealed  a  sac,  which,  on 
being  opened,  was  found  to  contain  a  newt. 
This  was  firmly  believed  by  all  the  girls  in 
the  school  on  the  testimony  of  Miss  E.  her- 
ielf.  W.  a  B. 

I  have  been  a^ked  what  is  the  ^*askard  " 
mentioned  in  tlie  amusing  West  Riding  note 
of  J.  T.  F.  I  believe  it  is  a  Yorkshire  dialect 
word  meaning  an  eft,  I  think  there  may  be 
aorae  basis  for  the  story.  How  such  tales  may 
arise  is  shown  by  another  case.  A  poor  man 
was  very  ill,  and  his  wife,  being  asKCfl,  said 
that  the  doctor  had  told  her  that  he  had  got 
an  ulster  in  his  a t-omach— surely  as  ditHcult 
to  digast  as  the  blanket  swallowed  by  the  boa 
constrictor  in  the  Zoo.  This  shows  that  some 
of  the  stories  tnay  arise  trom  misapprehensions 
of  terms,  Isaac  Tayloh. 

This  is  an  old  and  widely  diffused  idea, 
difficult  of  eradication,  as  many  of  these 
popular  fallacies  are. 

I  can  remember  when  a  child  being  shown, 
in  a  druggist^?!  window,  a  large  glaas  jar  in 
which  was  an  animal  like  a  Brobdingnaglan 
toad  preserved  in  spirits ;  and  I  was  told 
that  it  came  from  the  inside  of  a  man  who 
had  swallowed  it  when  small.  The  creature 
devoured  everything  in  the  way  of  meat  and 
drink  that  the  man  took  ;  nothing  seemed  to 
satisfy  it^  and  the  man  kept  wasting  away, 
whilst  the  unwelcome  tenant  grew  and 
thrived.  At  last,  by  a  violent  effort,  be 
ejected  the  tenant,  which  was  preserved  in 
the  way  mentioned. 

I  rather  think  that  J.  T.  F,  is  mistaken  in 
calling  the  specimen  of  the  batrachia  an 
askard ;  **  aster "  is  tlie  usual  provincial 
denomination  of  it  in  the  Northern  and  Mid- 
land counties.  Halliwell|  in  bis  *  Dictionary,* 
says  under  *Asker/  *'  (2)  a  land  or  water  newt. 
Var.  dial.  Kennett  MS.  Lands.  1033  gives 
this  form  as  a  Staffordshire  word." 

pTous  Pr'SFOhd,  M.A. 

p* Askard"  ia^  or  was,  the  word  in  the  West 
Riding.} 

The  Battle  o¥  ¥ois^^»ox.\1^^^'^-^^^- 


334 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9m»8.vu.april  27.101. 


was  the  orator's  confusion  when  he  was  told 
that  the;y  were  written  by  another.  He  pro- 
duced his  authority,  which  was  one  of  these 
calendars,  but  it  was  not  accepted.  Next 
morning  he  accosted  me,  and.  citing  the 
lines,  asked  me  if  they  were  not  by  the  great 
poet.  I  could  not  at  the  moment  remember 
where  I  had  seen  them,  so  I  said,  '*Well, 
they  seem  to  be  a  little  in  his  style,  don  t 
they  1 "  "  Yes,"  was  the  reply  ;  "  but  Brown 
declares  they  are  by  Addison."  This  at  once 
gave  me  the  cue.  and  I  cried,  "  And  so  they 
are  ;  you  will  find  them  in  his  'Cato'"  (LuX 
All  this  happened  some  years  agcx  but  I 
should  not  oe  surprised  to  hear  that  the 
couplet  is  still  attributed  to  the  wrong 
author,  though  the  reference  was  not  so 
precise  as  in  the  instances  given  above, 
"Shakespeare"  only  being. appended,  with- 
out the  play,  act,  and  scene. 

Just  as  many  sayings  have  been  ignorantly 
ascribed  to  Shakespeare,  so  many  fables  have 
been  fathered  on  iEsop.    I  think  the  Rev. 
G.  F.  Townsend   must  have  been   nodding 
when  he  said  that  *  The  Two  Bags'  (a  curiow 
title)  was  composed  by  the  ancient  Greek. 
It  certainly  has  no   place  amons  the  144 
fables  printed  in  the  edition  that  taes  before 
me  (Eton,  1863).    The  author  was  another 
Greek,  who  wrote  in  Latin  in  the  times  of 
Augustus  and  his  successor.    His  name  m 
Phsedrus.    He  has  left  us  five  books,  in  the 
fourth  of  which  we  find  the  fable  asked  for 
It  is  the  tenth,  and.  as  it  only  oonsKsto  of 
five  lines,  I  quote  it  tor  the  purpose  of  com- 
parison.   It  IS  entitled  *  De  Vitiis  Hominnin, 
and  runs  thus : — 

Peras  imposait  Jupiter  nobis  duat : 
Propriis  repletam  vitiis  post  t«rgum  dedit, 
Alienis  ante  i)ectu8  sospendit  gravem. 

Hac  re  videre  nostra  mala  non  postanms; 
Alii  simul  delinquant,  censores  tnmus. 
The  version  quoted  by  Gnomon  is  by  Edwird, 
Lord  Ly  tton,  but,  as  it  contains  some  changWi 
it  may  be  well  to  give  what  he  ^ro*^!5 
'Caxtoniana,'  vol.  i.  p.  339,  which  I  entered 
in  my  note-book  many  years  ago  :— 

"  On  this  truth  Phaednis  has  an  apokigae  which 
may  be  thus  paraphrased  :— 

From  our  necks,  when  life's  journey  begini, 

Two  sacks  Jove,  the  Father,  suspends ; 
The  one  holds  our  own  proper  sins. 
The  other  the  sins  of  our  friends : 
The  first,  man  immediately  throws 

Out  of  sight,  out  of  mind,  at  his  back ; 
The  last  is  so  under  his  nose. 
He  sees  every  grain  in  the  sack.** 

i  I  may  add  that  La  Fontaine  gives  a  v«w 
- .»  «^^  -„  ...w.  v««,  ^  ^w. — «„«  o«wwj^.  ;  good  version  of  the  lines  of  Phusdnw  at  the 

But  we  'U  do  more,  Sempromus,  we'll  deafttve  it,   °^^  ^^  Vvia  table  ' La  Besaoe '  (L  i  7]i.    In  ooa- 
Mod  attributed  them  to  Shakespeare.    Oreal  cVoAvoti^  \  Xxk.^  \V»  V^V»  ^^thor  JBaop  m 


that  treated  in  the  picture.  I  thought  it 
was  forgotten,  not  that  it  was  fictitious. 
Mr.  Hope  does  not  believe  the  tale  (on  what 
ground  is  not  ver>r  clear  ;  each  to  his  taste) ; 
but  it  would  be  interesting  to  know  what 
incident  in  which  he  does  believe  would 
account  for  the  undeniable  salute  of  the 
picture— some  hidden  fragment  of  history, 
which  would  make  the  courteous  enemy 
Louis  XV.,  the  Dauphin,  Due  de  Richelieu, 
&c.,  and  our  own  people,  presumably,  the 
Duke  of  Cumberlana,  the  Pnnce  of  Waldeck. 
Marshal  Konigsegg,  &c.  1  An  "incident* 
there  certainly  was.  We  have  to  choose 
between  the  pigtail  of  Voltaire  and  the 
buckram  of  Lora  Charles  Hay  for  its  ingre- 
dients. If  any  one  chooses  to  accept  the 
stirring  picture  of  our  hero  stepping  forth 
from  the  disciplined  and  unbroken  column, 
drinking  to  the  enemy,  and  informing  them, 
in  the  spirit  of  Mr.  Snodgrass,  that  he  was 
"going  to  bej^in,"  he  is  welcome  to  the 
glorious  tradition,  and  to  the  further  reflec- 
tion that  Lord  Charles  Hay  very  soon  showed 
that  he  was  as  good  at  retreating  as  any 
Frenchman. 

Saxe  was  in  a  litter  the  d&y  before  the 
battle.  "H  ne  s'agit  pas  de  vivre,  mais  de 
partir,"  he  said  to  Voltaire  before  opening 
the  campaign.  Perhaps  the  great  soldier, 
with  his  iron  determination  and  endurance, 
managed  to  make  a  kind  of  resemblance  to 
the  already  obese  and  unwieldy  Cumberland. 
The  Irish  regiments  were  surely  seven  in 
number,  one  being  a  dragoon  corps.  Perhaps 
this  makes  the  dinerence. 

On  the  question  hinted  at  by  M.  N.  G.  as 
to  what  drove  the  allies  back,  there  can  be 
very  little  doubt.  The  advance  was  only 
possible  because  there  had  been  no  combined 
movement  against  it.  So  soon  as  Saxe 
launched  his  concentrated  attack  on  the 
unsupported  column  defeat  was  inevitable. 

J.  S.  C.  welcomes  Dr.  Conan  Doyle  as  the 
longed-for  historian  of  the  Irish  Brigade.  I 
venture  to  think  that  the  gap  still  remains 
unfilled,  the  Gibbon  desired  by  Mr.  Hope 
still  untound.  A  trained  historian  is  required 
for  the  work,  which  would  need  much  original 
research  out  of  Britain. 

George  Marshall. 

Sefton  Park,  Liverpool. 

Wall  Calendars  with  Quotations  from 
Shakespeare  (9^  S.  vii.  209).— An  acquaint- 
ance of  mine  once  made  a  speech  in  which 
he  quoted  the  two  following  hnas  :— 

*Ti8  not  in  mortals  to  command  success, 


v^8.vilaprii.27.i9ol]    NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


335 


Shakespeare  *' comes  in"  her©,  their  placea 
being  occupied  by  Phaidrus  aiiii  Bulwer- 
I^ttoii,  as  we  used  to  cjall  him,  for  wliose 
versatile  genius  I  have  always  had  a  gi^oat 
adtuiratioQ.  John  T.  Curbv. 

OiroMOH  will  find  that  the  source  of  his 
first  quotation,  "The  s^peech  nf  peace  that 
beani  such  grace/'  is  the  second  utterance  of 
Westmoreland  in  '%  Henry  IV  '  IV.  i. 

W.  H.  Helm. 

Bhakspeare  in  another  play  has  referred 
to  the  wallet  at  the  back,  but  he  wa^ 
remembering  Bpenser,  not  ^Eijop  :— 

Time  h«ith,  my  lord,  a  wallet  a,t  his  back. 
Wherein  he  puts  alma  for  oblivion. 

'  Troilua  and  GreaBidai,'  III.  iii. 

This  bears  some  resemblance  to  what  Spenser 
has  written.  Spenser's  lady  bears  a  bottle 
before  her  and  a  wallet  behind  her.  In  the 
bottle  she  put8  the  tears  of  her  contrition  ; 
in  the  wallet  she  puts  repentance  for  things 
past  and  gone  C  Faerie  Queene,*  book  vi. 
canto  viii.  stanzas  23,  24).  The  thought  of 
Spenser  is  difierent  from  that  of  ^Zsop ;  but 
h«  may  have  had  in  his  mind  ^'Eaop*s  fable^ 
which  can  be  found  in  Fhnedrua  and  in 
Babrius,  It  has  been  told  also  by  La 
Fontaine.  E,  YAROtBY. 

London  Churchbs  (9^''  8,  vii,  169,  278).— 
Ubb.  Uopk  may  be  referred  to  Payne  Fisher's 
'Catalogue  of  the  Tombs  in  the  Churchea  of 
the  City  of  Xjondon,  16G6,'  privately  reprinted 
in  1887;  'London  City  Cn arches  Destroyed 
ainci^   1880  or  now  Threatened/  by  William 
Nivein,  F.S,A,(1887) ;  Mill  Stephenson's  *  Notes 
On  the  Monumental  Brasses  of  Middlesex  ' 
(St.  PauVs  Ecclesiol.  Soc.),  iv,  231-33  ;  An- 
dview  Oliver's  "^  Brakes  in  London  Museums  ^ 
C-4rc/*.  Journ.^  xlviii.  286-9) ;  Transaction*  of 
^t©  Monumental  Brass  Society  and  Sl  PauVs 
Blcelejiio logical  geoerally  :  T*  L.  !$martt,  *  His- 
tory   of    Ht,    Botolph,    Bishopsgate'  (1S24); 
J^ohn  Diproae,  *Some  Account  of  the  Parish 
of  Sl   clement  Danes,   Pa,Ht   and    Present' 
(1868).         T.  Cakn  Hughes,  M.A.,  RS.A, 

Lancaster, 

In  1882  I  copied  the  whole  of  the  inscrip- 
tions then  extant  on  the  monuments  and 
brafjses  within  the  church,  a  ad  on  the  grave- 
stones in  the  churchyard,  of  St.  Andrew 
Uodershaft,  in  the  City  of  London— amount- 
ing in  the  aggregate  to  aeventy-nine.  This 
was  done  with  some  difficulty,  on  a  laflder,  in 
the  ease  of  several  of  the  mural  tablets  which 
are  fixed  at  a  considerable  height  from  the 
floor*  Of  the  thirty -one  inscriptions  in  the 
dturchyard,  some  are  on  atonen  which  were 
rcBooved  thither  froin  the  chupGh  at  the  time  | 


of  its  then  recent  restoration,  My  copy  has 
not  yet  been  printed,  but  is  very  interesting. 
It  will  be  remerabered  that  the  church 
oiicaped  the  Great  Fire  of  1666. 

W.  L  R.  V. 

The  mention  of  these  old  City  churches 
Iwing  ruthlessly  swept  away  in  the  march 
of  improvement  induces  me  to  ask  whether 
thechurchyard  mentioned  in  ^Martin  Chu^sde- 
wit,'  where  Anthony  Chuzxlewit  is  said  to  be 
buried,  has  been  identified,  Dickens  has  given 
a  graphic  da^tcription  of  the  expensive  funeral 
provided  for  the  father  by  hta  son,  who 
imagines  himself  to  have  been  his  father's 
murderer.  The  horses  in  the  hearse,  with 
their  nodding  plumes,  the  undertaker,  Mr. 
Mould,  and  his  assistant,  Tacker,  are  all 
described.  The  place  of  business  of  Chuzzle- 
wit  &  Son,  Manchester  warehouaemen,  is  said 
to  have  been  near  the  General  Post  Office, 
and  it  was  their  dwelling  also  before  people 
quitted  London.  Nearly  every  place  described 
by  Dickenn  has  been  either  identified  or 
attempted  to  be  identified,  and  no  doubt  thin 
has  been  run  to  earth. 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 
New  bourne  Rectory,  Wood  bridge. 

"As  KlGfiT  AS  A  teivet''(9*^  S.  vii.  227). 
—Is  not  tliiB  proverbial  phrase  evidentl}"^  in 
allusion,  not  to  the  neceBsity  of  a  good  tnvet 
boing_^  r/47A^anglefi,  but  to  the  firmness  and 
security  with  which  a  three-legged  or  three- 
footed  implement  of  any  kind  standi  upon 
an  uneven  surface]  Hence  to  be  correct, 
reliable,  or  quite  right  in  any  matter.  "Ais 
to  the  letter^  Mr.  Rokesmith,"  said  Mr  Roffin, 
*'  you  ^re  as  right  as  a  trivet "  (Dickens,  *  Our 
Mutual  Friend  ').  Two  other  phraser  strike 
one  as  very  similar,  **  Aft  right  as  rain  "  and 
**As  right  as  ninepence.**  The^se,  however, 
while  they  mean  ''quit*^  nght»"  imply  a  sense 
of  comfort  rather  than  of  security, 

J.  H.  MacMichakl. 

I  have  always  suppa'^  that  this  phrase 
had  reference  to  the  fact  that  a  trivet  or 
three- [egged  stool  will  stand  steadily  on  an 
uneven  Hoor,  and  so  is  always  Hght  wherever 
it  is  put  down.  J.  T.  F. 

Wtntertoa,  Donoaater. 

Healing  Stone  (S***  S,  vi.  370,  477  ;  vii. 
12,  13ft). — In  various  parts  of  the  world  mys- 
terious propertias  are  credited  to  stones, 
menhirs,  and  rocks  bearing  cup- marks  and 
concentric  rings.  It  has  b^en  suggested  by 
me  in  a  former  article  that  the  cup-marks 
may  be  a  very  early  form  of  inscription,  and 
that  tlie  conceinlnc  nu^^ft,  t^afcTsMvcv^  ^Xsfe 
Hindu  Sivl^  wnat^^,  laa.^  \3te  X\ift  x^'sajNww.^^ 


336 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [»*8.  vn.AFiui-27,iwi. 


ancient  nature  or  phallic  worship.  The 
sahject  is  now  being  worked  out  by  me  more 
fully,  with  the  aid  of  further  information 
recently  collected.  The  superstitions  con- 
nected with  these  stones  generally  relate  to 
phallic  subjects,  and  much  curious  infor- 
mation will  be  found  in  the  publications  of 
the  Morbihan  and  other  French  antiquarian 
societies.  Mr.  liang,  in  his  article  on  the  *  Cup 
and  Ring,'  mentions  how  in  Argyll  a  woman 
who  desires  to  have  a  babv  will  slide  down  a 
cup-marked  {i,e.^  an  inscribed)  rock,  and  adds 
that  the  sliding  is  attested  by  a  chief  of 
Clan  Diarmid.  MM.  Piette  and  Sacasse 
relate  similar  instances  in  the  Breton 
country.  Unfortunately  I  have  not  their 
book  at  hand  for  reference. 

J.  H.  Rivett-Carnac. 
Schlofls  Wildeck,  Switzerland. 

•*Q[ui  viveT  (9"»  S.  vii.  245.) -This  ex- 
pression is  noticed  in  Hatzfelas  'Diction- 
naire':  "Compose  de  qui  et  rive,  subjonctif 
de  in^rre  :  proprement  *  vive  qui  ? '— c'est-i- 
dire  *pour  qui  otes-vous?'"  (See  arts.  *Qui 
vive'  and  *Vivre.')  An  example  dated 
"  xvi*-xvii»  siecle "  is  given  :  '*  H  respondit 
*Vezins'  au  qui  vive."  Nothing  is  said  of 
oui  vive  being  a  corruption  of  chi  viva,  which 
looks  like  a  fictitious  phrase,  the  usual  Italian 
being  chi i  Id?  or  ch%  va  Id?  Anyhow,  Hatz- 
feld's  explanation  is  simple  and  oovious. 

F.  Adams. 

The  would-be  explanation  given  in  L Inter- 
itMiaire  is  fancy-work,  nor  is  qui  mve  equiva- 
lent to  qui  mL  to  which  Mr.  Lynn  objects 
rightly  that  the  subjunctive  mood  of  the 
phrase  would  not  be  accounted  for.  "  Vive 
la  r^puhligue  ! "  he  says,  "  means  *  May  the 
republic  live  ! '  (i.e.,  continue)  and  Qiii  mve  ? 
should  mean  not  *  Who  lives  ? '  but  *  Who  may 
live  ? ' "  And  so  it  is.  The  soldiers  or  par- 
tisans in  the  French  armies  of  former  cen- 
turies used  as  favourite  war-cry  and  pass- word 
the  names  of  their  leaders  or  employers  in 
combination  with  the  vive  in  question,  e.g,, 
"  Vive  le  Due  de  Bourbon  "  r" Vivat  Dux," 
k.cX  so  that  it  became  a  set  phrase.    Owing 


or  occupation,"  never  ''cultivation  or  occu- 
pation]'^ or  ** cultivation"  only.  But  as  an 
alteration  in  meaning  necessitates  a  difiSsrent 
etymology  for  "manurance,"  Mr.  Matall  is 
right  in  directing  attention  to  what  is  perhi^ 
an  erroneous  conclusion  on  my  part.  For  oo 
the  analogy  of  tenure,  I  had  in  my  own  mind 
derived  "  manurance  "  from  maneo^  which  is 
plausible  enough  in  itself,  but  will  scarcely 
stand  against  the  older  use  of  *'  manurance. 

HOLCOMBB  InGLKBY. 

Arundel  :  Walden  (9"»  S.  vii.  28, 155,  231). 
—Reading  Canon  Taylor's  reply  at  the  last 
reference,  I  notice,  while  connemning  sham 
antiquarian  names,  he  says,  "  The  Cam  wu  t 
name  given  to  the  Granta  so  as  to  exnlain 
the  name  Cambridge."  I  do  not  wish  to 
challenge  his  statement  about  the  name  Cam, 
which  may  or  may  not  be  correct,  but  will 
he  kindly  furnish  us  with  his  authority  for 
stating  that  the  river  Cam  ever  bore  the 
name  of  the  Granta,  or  furnish  proof  of  the 
same  ?  For  in  this  statement  I  am  inclined 
to  fear  he  himself  is  one  of  those  guilty  sham 
antiquaries.  We  certainly  want  no  shun 
topography,  any  more  than  feenealogy,  to 
mislead  us.  I  have  rowed  on  the  Aran,  and 
have  always  understood  it  derived  its  name 
from  the  arrow  reeds  which  grew  on  its  sideR, 
Lat.  Arundo  pkragmites, 

Grantham  Tom. 

Shrinking  from  venturing  to  tread  in  the 
thorny  paths  of  philology,  let  me  say  that 
the  "  penk  "  is  a  common  enough  name  of 
the  minnow,  and  is  used  bv  Izaak  Waltoo ; 
sometimes  it  is  called  a  ^^pink."  Besidei 
Penkridge,  there  is  in  the  same  ooonty 
(Stafford)  a  place  called  Penkhull  Oocally 
Penkle) ;  and  m  Cornwall,  St.  Michael  Penke- 
vell  and  Pencrebar.  I  have  always  under- 
stood that  the  prefix  pen  means  a  hill. 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 

Newbourne  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

Talbot  Surname  and  Family  (9"»  S.  vl 
242,  412).— "Now  is  it  not  possible  that  Car- 
town,  CO.  Kildare  (one  of  the  seats  of  the  Irish 

other  party.,  only  putting  the  stereo^ped ,  J^^j'^  ^"i*®^  «»  "»"«•  '^'^  ^"  '"  ^^^ 


formula  in  the  interrogative  form:  "Qui— 
vive  1 "  "  Vivat— quis  ? "  "  Who— do  you  say- 
may  live  long  ? "  Dr.  G.  Kruecjer. 
Berlin. 

"Manurance"  (9"»  S.  vii.  125,  274).— The 

two  extracts  from  the  Sedgeford  Tithe  Award 

are :  "  When  in  the  manurance  or  occupation 

/7/tAe  vicar  himself,"  and  "When  thesaia  glebe 

lands  are  not  in  the  manurance  oi  t\ic  owwet 


presume  that  the  above  extract 
from  Mr.  J.  Talbot's  note  refers  to  Carton, 
Maynooth,  co.  Kildare,  the  present  seat  of 
the  Dukes  of  Leinster.  The  rental  book  of 
Gerald,  ninth  Earl  of  Kildare,  a.d.  1518^  was 
published  in  the  Kilkenny  ArehanUmod 
Journal  in  the  yeiir  1866  by  the  late  Heroeit 
Francis  Hore,  Esq.  He  states  that  tiie  ori- 
ginal is  a  MS.  in  the  British  Muaenin,  niim- 
W«d  ^756  in  the  Harleian  collection.  Aflxns 


t^hereot**  The  modem  phraseology  \a"lOTi\xt^\tYv^  Y\w»-w^tw»  \^\^KjssQRd  v*  Ibe  i«lild 


g»  a  viL  Apim.  27. 1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


337 


bocik  IS  "The  Carthyn,"  which  the  editor  re- 
iDftrks  "  is  doubtlesii  Carton."  Thus  the  name 
of  this  place  was  evidently  so  spelt  in  1518. 
The  editor  also  gives  extracts  from  a  retit- 
roJl  of  1  May,  1684  (Harleian  MS.  7200),  one 
ol  which  ia  as  follows  :^ 

"The  next  item  mfetitioriB  n  noUble  nnme,  *UolL 
Richard  TaJbot/  who  was  charigeil  KV.  u  year  for 
tlte  tihiuf  rent  of  Cafrtowuf*,  Lii£t«arl  of  Hh  Win, 
Talbot  i.  He  had  paid  the  half -year 'ft  rent,  being 
iitobably  then  resicient  at  Carton,  now  the  seat  of 
MS  Grace  the  Duke  of  Leineter." 

I  do  not  know  at  what  date  the  Talbot«i  first 
became  tenants  of  the  Earls  of  Kildare.  In  a 
lit^e  book  entitled  "Castle  of  May  noot f  i,  1  Ses. 
Compiled  by  the  Duke  of  Leingter  for  private 

drcuiation  (DubHn^  Hodges^  Smith  &  CoO» 
it  is  stated  that 

*^  in  or  about  1629,  a  letter  w9m  sent  to  the  Lorda 
JvBtieea  of  Ireland,  hy  order  of  Charles  1.,  in  which 
it  is  Aiat«tl  that,  aa  the  title  de«ds  of  <Teot^e,  16th 
Earl*  then  a  minor,  were  in  the  custody  ot  ChriH- 
topher  Fit?:gerald,  formerly  servant  to  berald,  late 
KarL  and  who  had  grown  very  weak  from  old  age, 
he  directed  them  to  be  placed  under  the  charge  of 
Lord  AwnKier,  nnele  to  the  l^krK  and  of  Sir  W. 
Til  bo  t  of  Carton,  in  a  chest  with  three  locks  ;  one 
key  to  bo  kept  by  the  guardiann  of  the  Earl, 
mother  by  Lord  Aungier,  and  the  third  by  tjlr  W. 
Talbot." 

**Carrtowne"  of  1684  looks  very  like  a 
i^riation  of  "The  Carthyn ''  of  1618  ;  and  if 
'he  Talbots'  tenancy  only  began  in  the  seven- 
eenth  century,  it  is  unlmely  that  Carton  was 

0  named  after  Carr  in  Lancashire.  I  may 
dd  tba^  having  spent  mj  childhood  in  its 
umediate  vicinity^  I  can  vouch  for  the  fact 
bat  the  modern  orthography  of  the  name  is 
Iways  Cdrton,  pronounced  with  the  accent 
Q  the  penult  It  is,  however,  often  pro- 
onnced  Cdrtown  by  the  lower  classes.  Dr. 
oyce^  in  his  useful  work  *  The  Origin  and 
[latory  of  Irish  Names  of  Flac©i,'  sixth 
jition,  Dublin,  1861,  vol  i  p.  245,  states 
imt 

in  many  fiarta  of  Ireland  the  Anglo  >  Norman 
sttlent  intmdoced  terms  derived  from  their  own 
miiniago,  «Ttd  several  of  Ihe^e  are  now  very  common 

1  lownland  names,  CaHrii^t.  sign i lies  a  quarter,  and 
I  derived  through  the  French  ffttariet'im  from  the 
leiliafval  Lai.  qitartiraHHA.*' 

May  not  Carton  have  been  derived  from 
)ariron  f  Thia,  of  course,  is  merely  a  guess, 
lid  I  am  aware  how  ri^iky  such  guesses  often 
fB.  It  seems  to  me  to  be  a  pit^  that  our 
rith  authorities  on  place-names,  history,  (fee, 
0  not  appear  to  be  so  much  in  touch  with 
N.  Jb  Q/  as  they  might  be,  since  many 
i&tters  of  interest  relating  to  Ireland  often 
Rm  up  in  its  pages. 

8.  A.  D*Arc\%  L.R.aP.  and  SJ. 


Beorbk  on  the  Whebl  (9*^  S.  vL  251,  314, 
373,  455,  513;  vii,  135,  196).--The  most  vivid 
description  of  this  punishment  which  I  have 
ever  read  occurs  in  an  old  novel,  *  Memoirs  of 
the  Year  Two  Thousand  Five  HundrefL'  The 
note  is  perhaps  worth  preserving  :— 

**The  author  here  evidently  refern  to  what  is 
improperly  called  the  breaking  on  the  wheel;  for 
the  cnminal  in  Btretched  naked,  ejtoept  a  cloth  that 
goea  round  his  waist,  upon  two  planki,  in  the  form 
of  what  i&  called  St.  Andrew's  croaa  ;  and  then  the 
e^cecnttoner,  with  an  iron  bar,  breaks  all  the  bones 
of  his  anng,  hta  le^,  and  thlghei.  A  cruel  pviniah* 
ment»  the  reader  will  say  i  but  it  is  trifling  Co  what 
he  hag  to  suffer  \  for  he  is  then  laid,  with  hU  face 
upward,  u|>on  a  small  wheel,  about  aa  wide  as  the 
length  of  bis  bodv  only,  and  ti-uaaed  up  tike  a  fowl 
for  the  apit  \  hta  broken  legs  and  thighs  are  brought 
back  to  bis  arms,  and  be  ia  bound  round  with  cords, 
hard  as  a  merchant  binds  a  bale  of  gooda  that  is  to 
go  a  long  voyage,  till  the  ropes  cot  into  the  tleah, 
and  thus  left,  with  his  head  hanging  backwards  off 
the  wheel,  to  expire  by  agnnies ;  white  the  gay, 
polite  Parisians  throng  from  every  quarter 
to  beholci  a  sight  that  is  a  disgrace  to  their 
capital,  to  their  country,  and  to  mankind ;  and 
white  the  softer  sei,  aa  the  author  aaya,  jnuo 
from  the  windows  with  inHattable  curiosity.  Thi« 
puniflhment  ahows  how  strong  the  ^wswers  of  life  are 
in  flonie  men ;  wliat  tortures  human  nature  is 
capable  of  enstaining.  One  would  imagine  that  a 
man  could  live  but  a  very  short  Lime  in  such  a 
situation  %  but  the  wrei-ch  I  saw,  who  was  young, 
and  of  a  vigorous  oonstitntiou,  was  placed  on  the 
wheel  about  six  in  tho  evening;  at  Tour  the  next 
morning,  he  complained  of  thirst,  and  drink  waa 
given  him  ;  about  an  hour  after,  he  expired. 

''  On  revising  this  note,  it  occurrod  to  me  that  the 
hard  binding  with  roptss  may  be  humanely  intended 
to  shorten  the  crimmarn  tortures  by  stopping  the 
ciFculation  ;  flo  when  the  executioner  jumps  on  the 
ah  ou  Id  era  of  the  man  that  ia  hanging  he  oertatnly 
lo lends,  and  does,  in  many  instanoas,  shorten  hii 
sufferings.  Doubtless,  too,  a  great  part  of  the  sijee* 
tators  are  earned  to  these  oxecutionft  by  a  desire  to 
■vmpathi;£c  in  the  onminar^  sufTerinp  ;  as,  when  a 
snip  is  in  diatrosa,  the  fond  mother  Hies  to  the  sea- 
shore, and  while  she  strains  her  infant  to  the  breastp 
oommiserales  their  calamity,  though  utterly  unable 
to  relieve  them." 

Thomas  Auld, 

"Tappikg  ''  AND  "Tipping"  (&^  S.  vii.  105 
191). —  "Tapping''  is  ouite  different  from 
"tipping."      "'S.ppin^      is,    so    to    ^peak, 

coercive ,'    "  tipping "  is  voluntary,  or   sup- 
posed to  be,  e.g.  :— 

^'  He  had  frequently  succeed eil  in  tapping  Tyson 
for  subacHptions  to  military  tournaments,  cnurches» 
schools,  &c*  ■  but  deceased  would  never  allow  his 
name  to  appear,  preferring  to  Iw  called  *A  Kriend.'" 
—  'A  Wanderer  and  a  Gatherer/  in  Biml'-i^ooti'* 
Moffa^ine^  March,  p.  371. 

William  Okoeqk  Black. 

Ranioyle,  X>owanhill  (Tardens,  Gtasgow, 


338 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9*aviLApiuL27.i»L 


thirty-five  years  aso,  hearing  old  labourers 
say  that  it  was  bad  luck  to  put  in  a  crop  on 
a  Saturday,  while  in  many  parts  of  the  U.S. 
that  day  is  regarded  as  being  equally  un- 
lucky for  the  commencement  of  any  under- 
taking with  Friday.  In  some  of  the  Southern 
states  farm  hands  will  not  hire  themselves  on 
a  Saturday,  because  if  they  do  they  are  sure 
not  to  stay  the  whole  year ;  and  I  have  fre- 
quently been  warned  not  to  sow  a  crop  or 
plant  fruit  trees  on  that  day,  as  they  are 
^^  certain  to  turn  out  badly."  The  following 
lines  on  the  subject  were  copied  out  of  an  old 
plantation  account-book,  dated  1798,  which  I 
came  across  in  a  farmhouse  in  Virginia  some 
years  since : — 

Lucky  and  Unlticky  Days. 

Monday  for  wealth, 

Tuesday  for  health, 
Wednesday  best  day  of  all ;  • 

Thursaay  for  losses, 

Friday  for  crosses, 
Saturday  no  luck  at  all. 

Don't  build  on  a  Thursday— it 's  a  very  bad  day, 
For  barns  built  then  will  be  burnt,  they  sav ; 
While  the  next  two  days  are  good  for  nought. 
Folks  shonlVt  be  hired  nor  new  things  bought. 

Frederick  T.  Hibgame 

Allusion  in  Wordsworth  (9'*>  S.  vii.  188, 
232). — The  poet,  addressing  his  infant  grand- 
son, and  reflecting  on  the  political  troubles  of 
the  hour,  recalls  what  Alfred,  the  father  of 
his  people,  did  for  England.  Linking  past 
and  present  with  condensed  poetic  licence, 
he  eulogizes 

The  crown 
Of  Saxon  liberty  that  Alfred  wore, 
Alfred,  dear  Babe,  thy  great  Progenitor  ! 

The  last  line  claims  Alfred  the  Great  as  the 
political  father  of  every  Englishman,  and 
therefore  of  the  infant  that  should  inherit 
the  rights  and  privileges  threatened  at  the 
moment  bv  prevalent  turbulence.  That  seems 
to  cover  all  that  is  implied  in  the  passage. 

Thomas  Bayne. 

Orientation  in  Interments  (9*^''  S.  vi.  167, 
276,  335  ;  vii.  195).—!  believe  onljr  one  or  two 
of  the  many  old  churches  in  this  city  stand, 
upon  plan,  due  east  and  west. 

Harry  Hems. 

Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

Under  this  heading  Ibaouis  mentions  four 
London  churches  which  do  not  lie  east  and 
west.  It  may  therefore  be  well  to  point  out 
that  "  interments  **  do  not  take  place  at  any 
of  these  churches.  R.  S. 


"  The  first  Earl  of  Richmond  was  Alan^aimained 
Rafu8  or  Fergaunt  (by  reason  of  his  Red  Hair),  Son 
to  Eudo,  Earl  of  Bntanny  in  France.  Which  Alan, 
coming  over  into  England  with  Duke  William  oi 
Normandy,  command^  the  Rear  of  his  army  in  the 


memorable  Battle  near  Hastings.** 
His  brother,  the  second  earl^ 
Black. 


was  Alan  the 
John  Radcijffk. 


Fergaunt  (9***  S.  vii.  169).— Dugdale,  in  his 

'B&roD&ge  ot  England,'  p.  46,  ttivea  the  iol-\v 

lowing,  which  w\\[  be  what  A.  fl.  rec^uit^;— y 


Runic  Inscription  pound  in  St.  Paul's 
Churchyard  (9'*»  S.  vii.  269).— Your  corre- 
spondent's inquiry  relatee,  I  apprehend,  to 
tne  so-described  '^JJanish  monumental  stone" 
which  is  now  placed  against  the  wall  in  the 
vestibule  of  the  Guildhall  Library.  It  is  stated 
to  have  been  found  at  the  south-east  corner 
of  St.  Paul's  Churchyard  in  1852,  and  to  have 
been  presented  by  Mr.  (the  recently  deceased 
Sir  Francis)  Cook.  The  stone  is  roughly 
2  ft.  square,  or  very  nearly  so,  and  about  4 
or  5  in.  thick.  It  is  unfortunately  in  four 
pieces,  but  these,  being  placed  together,  show 
clearly  enough  a  sort  of  hippogn£f  carved 
in  low  relief  The  inscription  pKonal  and 
Tuki  caused  this  stone  to  be  laid")  runs 
along  the  face  of  the  thickness  on  the  left- 
hand  side  of  the  stone.  It  is  deeply  incised, 
but  some  of  the  letters  or  signs  are  chipped 
and  knocked  about.  Douglas  Owen. 

The  stone  mentioned  by  Mr.  T.  Can'» 
Hughes  is  now  in  the  vestibule  of  the  Guilc^- 
hall  Library,  London.  It  is  a  whitish-gr^^ 
stone,  about  204  in.  by  ISjin.  and  about  4^^-o 
thick.  The  description  attached  to  the  glr^i 
case  in  which  the  stone  is  enclosed  is  t 
follows  :— 

'*  Danish  Monuniental  Stone.  Runic  inac  ^i 
tion  on  tho  left-hand  side  of  the  Stone,  *  Konal  -^tmi 
Tuk)  caused  this  stone  to  he  laid.'    Found  at  t 

South-East  End   of   St.   Paul's  Church  Y*,  L      A' 
Presented  by  Francis  Cook,  Esq'." 

Matilda  Pollar^bo. 

Belle  Vue,  Bengeo. 

Irish  Harps  (9"»  S.  vii.  228).— Perhaps      the 
following  reference  may  serve  as  a  clue  t«z>  an 
Irish  harp.    It  is  taken  from  one  of  the  cata- 
logues (in  the  British  Museum)  of  Major  SirK« 
collections  (1841).     No.   3    in  Catalogue  o/ 
Irish  Antiquities  "  not  in  cases  "  is  descntet/ 
as   **The  Great  Irish  War  Harp"  "called 
Connair   Crith    or    Ceannaire    Croith  («e 
Brompton) "  :— 

*Trhe  head  of  the  Irish  goshawk  is  car\'ed  on 
the  top  of  the  i)illar.  There  was  a  brass  IuumI 
attached  to  it  which  is  lost  (the  bloody  hand  of  U» 
O'Neils).  It  belonged  to  a  bard  of  the  ONeil 
family." 

Possibly  an  expert  in  heraldry  could  aty 
whether  the  female  figure  generally  shown 
\&  t%«^^  «.Tv  ^»»^w\K3^  Qw  ^i^c^  Iciah  harm  and 


_. ./.  1901. J     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


339 


Ko  tba  differeuce  between  the  Irish  and 
^dsb  h&rp  for  heraldic  purposes. 

So  many  able  aod  exliaustive  articles  on 
lirp®,  their  introduction  into  Europe,  more 
articularly  into  Ireland  and  Wales,  have 
ppoared  in  '  N.  &  Q./  that,  to  save  your 
»oe,  I  would  refer  your  correspondent  to 
^  S.  iii.  J  3"!  S.  xl  xiL ;  6^  S.  xiL  ;  1^  S.  i. 
?*  vL  xi, ;  8"*  8.  viL  viii. 

EviRAED  Home  Colkman, 
7t,  Brecknock  Ro»d. 

Vm^z  "NiB8''  AND  "Nkb?*"  (t>"^  a  iiL 
65 ;  iv.  96t  HI,  271),— There  is  an  in^stance 
f  the  use  of  the  word  "nib*'  in  a  letter 
eceived  hero  a  week  or  two  ago  from  a 
Ative  merchant  at  AttraboBf  near  Ashanti. 
lie  pofit^cript  to  the  communication  in 
|ii€«tion  mna  :— 

"KB.  Pleaeo  kiudly  »upv'y  ^"^  cotUm  ^ampleA 
Hidp  lavender  wnler  nuBtd,  iianipl©!!  Woolen, 
aperi»  Eovelo{)«S|  |:ienB  ^tid  uih/f  fthe  it&lica  ara 
ny  own],  t«ti  tJcnciV  and  other  gowls  as^t  samplefl, 
iKl  your  ad<iJ-cB«,  erivelo^tes»  i>ftv«3ra  and  pice  li^t 
o  9u|>p]ycir  fthow  to  the  clients  to  ohr>oso  what  they 
irefere  or  like  iu  order  to  nmkc  order  wii^h  you  then. 
.  Alt)  not  plftying  sirs.  Give  my  best  wishes' to  your 
Dtiomte  wHe." 

Habrv  Hsmb, 
Fair  Park,  Eioter* 

Co  MIC  DiAUKitTK  Sermon  (9*^  8.  vii.  248).— 

I    J.    W.    Burgon'n   'Letters   from    Rome- 

lurray,  1862)  will  l>e  found  (in  Letter  ix», 

82)  an  amusing  description  of  a  similar 

dogiie   which   tlio  autlior    heard    at    San 

AlCit  in  the  courne  of  a  mission  held  in  that 

irch.    Both  interlocutors  were  Jesuits,  but 

ther  of  them  apparently  was  "dresHed  as 

ay  man "  in    thi^    case.      The    date    was 

en nion tide,  1800,    From   Burgou's  account 

'Mialogo  "  apfjear^  to  bo  a  trequent  inci- 

'^   though   not   an    esHeutial   pitrt,   of    a 


ion. 


S.  O.  Hamilton. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  kc. 
ndni-  of  tht  futur  Ttrnpif   lUrortfj*,     Kdited 
'.  A.  Inderwick,  K.U.    Vol.  UL    (Sother&n 

the  tbinl  voluniii  Mr,  Inderwick  brinuB  to  a 

niui^h  of  hift  laak  of  ediiui^  lUe  Inner  l^mTtle 

aa  he  At  ]>retteht  ftiutemplifcles.     Whothor 

labours,  m<itifriah  f<>r  whiih  exiBt^  wilt  be 

ken  we  are  at  present  unable  to  say.    What 

tplished  is  of  great  v^lue  to  the  atudenti 

with  that  alone  we  have  to  d^^\.    Of  the 

klunies.    the    first    is    *>erupiiMl    with    the 

om  2\  Henry  ViL   to  4r»  ELimbetli  (see 

107)  I  the  second  c-arrleB  the  record  up  to 

TOtion,  12  Charloa  H.  (eee  9^  8-  iL  m)i 


and  Un»  third  to  the  close  of  the  Stuart  dynasty 
and  the  o^^eeMion  of  that  of  Hanover,  12  Ajine* 
Though   less  turbulent,   and  to  some  extent   lew 
picturesmie,  than  the  proG^edinga  previouBly  nhru- 
oicled,  those   now  presented  in   Mr.   Indf^rwiek's 
concluding  volutoG  are  neither  less  interosting  nor 
less  imptirtant*     The  period  of  plague  which  de- 
pleted the  Temnle  is  close  at  hand  when  his  lal^ours 
berin.    It  is  followed  by  that  of  fire,  which  is  not, 
unhappily,   conftaed  to  the  famous   conflagratioti 
witnessed  and  depicted  by  Popya.    With  no  very 
long  inter\'al  come  the  rebellion  of  Monmouth  and 
the  Bloody  Asaiaie,  nr»ou  the  heels  of  which  tread 
the  Revolution  of  1688  and  the  flight  of  the  second 
James,  few  signs  of  which  are,  however,  traceable 
in  the  records.     With  plague  and  tire,  and  with 
other  events  of  seareely  inferior  imjKjrtance^  Mr. 
Inderwiek  deals  in   bis  introduction,  whiuh  onoe 
more  forms  a  masterly  survey  of  events.    On  the 
residents  in  the  Temple  the  plague  seems  to  have 
exercised  but  little  direct  influence,     Hosidenls  ui 
the  Inner  Temple,  like  tho»o  in  the  other  Iiin;:*  of 
Court,  met  the  dillieolty  by  flight.   The  only  cutries 
to  be  found  are  such  as  the  following)  under  17  Juno, 
1665»  17  Charles  U.  :  **  Order  that  by  reason  of  the 
sickness  of  the  ijlague  increasiog,  the  reading  for 
the  next  vacation  Hhall  not  be  kept,  and  therefore 
the  reader,  his  attendant,  and  the  vacationers  are 
dischargecl'*     This  done,  barriaterfl  and  studemU 
bet^wk  themselves  to  the  eouniry  houses  of  their 
friends^  with  the  result  that»  though  there  are  some 
burials  of  those  who  died  in  the  Templet  the  most 
noteworthy  appears  to  be  that,  nf  Henry  Chi  hem, 
the  Inner  Temple  steward,  who  was  iMjrhaps  en- 
forcedly a  rcaitlent  (see  Ap^mndix  I.  p.  446).    8onie 
deaths  of  strangtira  who  appear  Ui  bavDtjikcsn  refuge 
in  the  Temple  as  a  i>kce  of  oomjiarativc  ijccurity 
are  uieniioneii  in  the  same  sad  list.  Thus/*  Mistress 

Pea  re  and    Mr,    Hi  chard    Feare,   her   sonne, 

belonging  to  Mr,  Peare,  a  barrister  of  the  Middle 
Temple,  were  both  burietl  in  the  t-hurebyard,  f^p- 
tember  the  first,  1065.    Of  the  plague,"  and  **  Capl. 

ttyfford,  a  stranger  who  dyed  at  Mr.  GyfTord's 

ehamber  in  the  Middle  Temple  lane,  was  buried 
in  the  churchyard,  Septernlier  30*"^,  1665,  Of  the 
plague«^^  No  preparatious  whatever  had  been  made 
to  meet  a  <^laniity  such  as  was  the  Great  Fire,  and 
though  King's  Bench  Walk  oflered  some  opposiiiou 
to  its  westward  progress,  and  something  was  done 
by  blowing  up  the  bouses  with  gunijowder — an 
operation  |>ersotiaUy  BUf>erin tended  by  the  Duke  of 
\ork,  afterwards  James  IL,  a  bencher  of  the  Inn- 
it  waa  due  to  a  change  in  the  wind  that  the  chapel 
of  the  Knights  Templars  wu  preserved «  The  nre 
broke  out  again  on  n  September,  1666 ;  and  tluring 
subaequent  years  disastrous  fires  were  of  fairly  con- 
stant occurrence.  The  aiami  created  by  the  great 
conflagration  was  followed  by  that  caused  by  the 
apjwarante  of  the  Dutch  fleet  in  the  Thames. 

Conteata  Ijctween  the  Teuiple,  whieb  claimed  to 
be  extra-)iarochial,  and  the  City  were  of  frot^uent 
occur renocp  and  the  resist-ance  of  the  Templars  to 
the  efforts  of  the  Lord  Mayor  to  assert  his  right 
within  tho  precincts  of  the  Temple  !ed  to  some 
FilLrnn^and  dramatic  scen^,  the  account  of  which 
coQstitutea  perhaps  the  most  inspiriting  portion  of 
the  annals.  It  is  in  connexion  with  the  resbtanoe 
of  the  barristers,  who  wore  swords  under  their 
gowns,  to  the  {ittcmi»t  of  the  Lord  Mayor  to  enter 
with  his  sword  be!d  erect  that  the  namo^^Q^i  t^t^^^sik 
forward  of  Mr.  iaft^trwaT^  \J^i^a^''^  i^fSri«&r  '^^ 
was  one  o!  tb©  ^ocuilemcfn  q1  vV"t\imtex^«m.^^wa^- 


340 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,    (v^s.vu.afbh.^.uol 


mojieti  before    the  king  in  ootmoil  in  ooimoxion 
with  thjfl  dlsiurbance.    It  is  Bcandabuely  related 
conoeming  the^  Lord  Mayor  that,  on  being  repulsed^ 
he  went  to  a  tavern  over  the  way  and  got  drunk 
before    renewing   his    effort.     Of    tlie  Monmouth 
rebellion    we    hear   practically  notbinjc-     It  is  At 
significant  f»ct  that  after  the  Bloody  Assize  "  the 
henchara   conimia^iotied    Sir   Godfrey    Kneller  to 
jpflint  a  picture  of  Lord  Jeffryes  at  a  uoat  of  SOIJ' 
Thie  was  paid  for^  and  Met  up  in  the  hall  in  1687,  in 
which  year  Jeifreya  saW|  by  invitation,  in  the  hall 
ibe  performance  of   a   translation    from    Moliijr* 
entitled  'The  Choata  of  fckapin/    Thi&  waa  pre- 
Bum  ably  Otway'a  piece   produced  ten  yeara  pre- 
vioujsly  at  Dorse L  bardt^n.    Goneemiua  tne  various 
ylaya  presented  in  the  Temple^  and  t)ie  theatrical 
eubertainmentB   there  given,  Mr,    Inderwick    haa 
inuc.!h  that  is  of  intereat  to  say.     The  ailbjeet  geaer- 
ally  of  re  vela  repays  attention.    These  nmmmerics 
or  iiorformaoce^  gave  rise  to  sceties  of  die  order. 
We  tind  it  noted  on  31  January ,  lti68/9j  "*  Whcras 
several  fellows  [m']  came  Into  the  hall  m  the  time  | 
of  rtn'ok  with  their  hats,  swords,  and  t^mts,  it  is  | 
ordered  that  no  fcUows  aboil  at  any  time  come  into  I 
the  halta  but  in  their  gowns  and  ea^is,  oceordin^  to  ' 
the  ancient  orders  of  the   Houae* '     The  earnest 
i^uotatioD  for  *'  bog-house  ^'=latrine  in  the  '  U.E.D.^ 
is  1705.    In  the  General  Account  Book«  Oct.,  1689,  ' 
to  Oct.,  1680,  we  have  a  disbursement  **  To  Browne, 
the  watchman,  for  burying  the  old  man  that  kept 
the  bog-houses,  16«.  6a."    The  ill-omened  name  of 
Titus  Oates  crops  up  occasionally,  and  Mr.  Lang- 
home,  a  barrister  of  Middle  (?)  Temple,  is  found 
Suilty  and  put  to  death  on  his  information.    Lang- 1 
orne  protested  to  the  last  his  innocence^  and  Mr.  | 
Inderwick  does  not  doubt  his  asseveration.    The ' 
benchers  behaved  kindly  to  his  widow,  allowing  I 
her  to  sell  her  husband's  chambers,  and  giving  her 
2S^.  out  of  the  funds.    In  spite  of  all  precautions,  I 
illegitimate  children  were  bom  in  the  Temple.    An 
entry  obviously  alluding  to  such  is  "  Expenses  of 
nursing  Christmas,  Benjamin  and  Thomas  Temple 
at  34.  each  child  a  week."    An  interesting  item  in 
the  Christmas  accounts  of  1681-2  is  for  "sweet- 
meats for  Madam  Gwinn  [Thursday,  12  January, 
16ft2],  Hi"    We  might  proceed  extracting  passage 
after  passage  of  interest^  but  must  stop.    We  can 
only  congratulate  Mr.  Ijiderwick  upon  the  close 
of  his  admirably  executed  labours.     Whether  the 
work  might  not  with  advantage  be  continued  to 
the  beginning  (or  even  the  close)  of  the  Victorian 
era  is  a  matter  on  which   the  benchers   of   the 
Honourable  Society  will  in  due  time  decide.     A 
portrait  of  Queen  Anne,  after  Kneller,  forms  the 
frontispiece.  Portraits  of  William  IIL  and  Mary  II. , 
and  of  Lord  Nottingham,  with  other  illustrations 
of  great  interest,  are  also  given. 

Triglot  Dictionary  of  Scriptural  RepresaUcUivt 
Wordu,  By  H.  Browne,  M.D.  (Bagster  &  Sons.) 
All  honest  labour  deserves  respect,  especially  when 
actuated  by  religious  motives.  We  can  well  believe 
that  Dr.  Browne  has  expended  a  very  considerable 
amount  of  trouble  in  compiling  these  word-lists  of 
*  Scriptural  Representative  Words/  but  he  appears 
to  have  set  to  work  rather  blindly,  without  first 
ascertaining  what  had  l)eon  achieved  by  other 
labourers  in  the  same  field.  Indeed,  ho  betrays 
but  slight  acuuaintance  with  the  works  of  the  best 
Biblical  scholars  and  lexicosraphers.    He  is  satis- 

^ed  with  the  ooucordaaces  of  Dr.  R.  Young,  the  Rev. 

tf.  G,  Oreen,  and  Wigram  as  hii  stAudud  voASbo* 


ritiea.    His  objeut  is  to  a^t  out  in  parallel  oolunus 
one  English  word  which  will  in  every  case  repre- 
sent one  Hebrew  word  and  the  one  aynonymous 
tireak  word*     We  nsoch  doubt  whether  this  could 
ever  be  done^  and,  Sf  it  could,  whether  Dr.  Browne 
has  quite  the  ischolarfihi|i  to  do  it.    The  one  ( !J  repre- 
sentative word  in  Eibheal  Greek  for  "  adaRiarit," 
he  tells  us,  is  dxavBa  ^Itidi  with  a  croea- reference 
to    '*aharp    thoroSi"  which    is   not   forthcoming, 
though  we  do  find  **  thorns,  sharp,"  with  the  i^ame 
definition.      Hardly  less    elueidatory   are   ^'afiijr- 
noon,"  with  Univm  (1  atretch  out)  aa  it*  protier 
Greek    synonytn,   and    ^-aunt.*'    |MiralleIed   witfa 
6yawovva  (loving  one) ;   all  wnich   is  dutGeienlly 
im^zling*    Then  Delitzach's  Hebrew  rcnderinKi  of 
certain  New  Te&tamemt  words  like  ^^Chrisliso" 
are  frcijuently  given;   these,  however  cloac  and 
idiomatic  they  maybe*  ean  hardly  be  tailed  BiblicaJ. 
If  Dr,  Browne  had  nifi  will   ho  would  e video dy 
make  wild  work  of  our  English  Bible,  if  we  rnijr 
judge  by  these  specimens  of    hia    own    veraioiu: 
**  Upon  a  last  of  these  days  [Hej  did  speak  oat  «> 
us  in  a  Son  whom  He  put  Hoir  of  all  thingaj  by 
whom  also  He  caused  to  be  the  Ages  "  (Hek  i- 1,2); 
"  When  there  is  a  Covtjnantt  it  is  a  necessity  of  tha 
Covenanter  to  bring  death  upon  himself,     Foi"  I 
Covenant  is  confirmed  upon  dead  ones,  since  it 
cannot  once-at-any-time  be  strong  when  the  Cove- 
nanter is  living**  (Heb.  ix.  16, 17) ;     He  was  tnuted- 
upon  in  a  world,  was  taken-up-oy-hand  in  ^oiy" 
(1  Tim.  iii.  16).    We  confess  we  cannot  see  tint 
Biblical  study  is  likely  to  be  advanced  by  then 
word-listSj  and  we  do  not  even  understand  now  the 
compiler  intends  they  should  be  used.    Thsydo 
not  constitute  a  glossary,  nor  a  dictionary,  nor  yet 
a  concordance,  and  the  references  are  given  in  ex* 
ceptional  cases  only. 


90tUM  ta  €annginAaiiM. 

We  must  call  sptcial  attention  to  the  foUofm 
notices:-' 

On  all  communioatioiis  most  be  written  the  ntfie 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  neceoaarily  for  pub- 
Uoation,  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Ws  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privfttely. 

To  secure  insertion  of  oommunioationi  ooR«* 
spondents  must  observe  the  following  mlea  Lei 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  sepsn^ 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  •d*' 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  Wheiiaiuii>^ 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regud  to  pceviov 
entries  in  the  paper,  oontribntors  are  requested  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exict 
heading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  paffsi  to 
which  they  refer.  CorrespondenU  who  repest 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  ooa* 
munication  **  Duplicate.** 

J.  H.  Ward  ("  Lines  on  the  Skin  ").— The  infc»- 
mation  you  send  appears  atUe,  p.  251. 

/NOTICE, 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addressed  to 

"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries ' "— Advectise- 

ments  and  Business  Letters  to  ''The  Pablisher"— 

at  the  Office,  Bream*s  Buildings,  Chanoery  T^*»v>t  S.C. 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  ratan 

oommnnioatioDs  whioh,  for  any  reason,  wa  do  Ml 

y  Vc>Xk^  \  «nd  to  this  mle  wa  oan  make  no  osMplte. 


vilafril  27.1901.]     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 
THE  DRAMA. 


ATUENMUUfor  April  20  eontatfu  Articlu  on 
E14MVILLB'8  WIDUWHUOD. 
K  tm  CUR18T1AMITY. 
BUOK  oa  OARDENINO. 
LF&ICA  a  CBNTUKY  AGO. 
UUCAN  NBOBO  of  TO-DAY. 
TSRIB8  Of  1818. 

VBLS-Baba  Ui«  Impoosible .  The  Colamn ;  MobobIai  TIm 
Floor  i  The  BtenuU  Quest ;  The  Baaner  of  Saint  Oeor^ ; 
Bmr.  her  Mark ;  A  Cardinal  and  hie  Conscience. 
•a  the  WAR. 
1  HI8T0KY. 

(RARY  TABLB-LI8T  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
rDOM    LIBRARY     CATALOGUE;     ADMIRAL     NAPIER; 
»KS  aad  LETTERS";  CURDS  and  "CROWDY";  ROYAL 
ABIB8  and  PAPYRUS  in  PHOCNICIA  ;  BYRON.   KBAT8, 
.BYNOLDS  i  CRITICA  CRITICIZBD. 

Auo 
lY  GOSSIP. 

—  AatroBonileal  Notes ;    Sale;    Societies;    Meetings  Next 
i  Gossip. 

.T8-New  Bnffiish  Art  Clnb ;  Gossip. 
>oaslp ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
-'  Corlolaaas '  and  *  The  Wilderness ' ;  Gossip. 


!  ATUHmjEVMfoT  Ajnril  6  eontainM  ArtieUt  on 

3  la  BAST  ANGLIA. 

DOM  HIGHLANDERS. 

r  Of  COLONIZATION. 

BARB  GBNBALOGY. 

H  HISTORY. 

•VKLB  :~Harlaw  of  Seadle :  The  Frobisbers ;  Bben  Uoiden  ; 

It ;  Tha  Royal  Sisters ;  llie  Salvation  Seekers ;  A  Soldier  for 

and  STATISTICS, 
r  THEOLOGY. 

IRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
DISOOVBRBD  DOCUMENT  of   the  EUZABETHAN  and 
BBAN  PB&IODS ;  UBNRY  Of  HUNTINGDON  and  OBOF- 
r    of  MONMOUTH;   EAKLY  GOLF  in  ENGLAND;   PERr 
PARALLEL  to  the  ARTHURIAN  LBGBND. 

Alm- 
Vt  GOSSIP. 

^-MoMT  Yehielee :  Library  TMile ;  Anthropolofieal  Utara- 
The  DlseoTerj  of  Jupiter's  SateUites ;  Societies ;  Meettncs 
Waek ;  Gossip.  ^ 

.TB— Library  Tsble;  The  Whltccbapel  Art  Gallerr:  Royal 
■M  of  Painters  In    Water  Colours;  Recent  PrinU;  Sales; 

Popular  Coaeerts ;  Sir  John  stainer ;  Gossip ;  Performances 

-•  The  Benaeu ' ;  •  Lonely  Li ves ' ;  Library  Tsble ;  Gossip. 


The  ATUENjUUU  for  April  IS  eontaint  AriicUa  on 
BYRON'S  LB1TBBS  nad  JOURNALS. 
The  INDIAN  BOHDBRLAND. 
The  OKBAT  NORTH  HOAD. 
A  HISTORY  of  the  ENGLISH  CHURCH. 
The  POETRY  of  M.  VBRHABRBN. 

''*^^2Y*^.=-:7''«  Hl***5««  •'  Uarest;  ASecretar/  of  Leftatioa; 

The  Wizard's  Knot;  The  Career  of  a  Beauty ;  Bellada  Fltiwarrea ; 

OkftiMg  of  Nets;   The  MIdnlfht  Passeager;  The  Fi«iUTc«t  A 

Soldier  of  the  King ;  SaroaiaTA  Syadicate  of  Sianers. 
MILITABY  BOOKS. 
LOCAL  HISTORY. 
TALES  Of  ADVENTUHE. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
NBWLY  DISOOVBRBD  DOCUMENTS  of  the  ELIZABETHAN    aad 

JACOBBAN   PERIODS;    '■  ABALIBNATB"  ;    •  SHAKESPBARBV 

FAMILY ' :  MK.  GBOAGE  M.  SMITH. 


LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIBNCB— The  Wlldfowler  in    Scotland;    Anthropological    Notes; 

Societies ;  Meetiags  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
FINE  ARTS— Royal  Society  of  RHtish  ArtisU ;  Mr.  Strang's  Etchings 

at  Gatekonst's  Gallery  i  Mislnkes  la  Church  Dedlcatloa.   Notes 

from  Rome ;  Gossip. 
MUSIO-GosBlp ;  Performaaces  Next  Week. 
DRAMA-'  Nicandra ' ;  fhe  McKee  Library ;  Gossip. 


Th€  A  TUKNMVH  for  March  30  eontaint  Articlu  on 

The  LIVE  of  MR.  CHILDEB8. 

The  MYTHS  of  ORBBC& 

A  DISCUSSION  of  ETHICS. 

TAINB  nad  his  WORK. 

THBBB  OORONATIOM  ORDERS. 

NEW  NOVELS -Lore   iiadHoBoari    A    Little    Grey    Sheep;    A 

?S'*SL  •!.  **"*f »  J%".**^^«'  *  ***"  Splaney ;  time's  V^i 
Jeha  Towaley ;  RiTal  Claimants. 

BDUCAtlONAL  LITBRATURE. 

PUBLICATIONS  of  the  S.P.C.K. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE— LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

NBWLY  DISOOVBRBD  DOCUMENTS  of  the  ELIZABETHAN  aad 
JACOBEAN  PBRIODSi  The  WORD  "FRAIL";  The  TROUBA> 
DOURS ;  The  FIRST  EDITION  Of  •  The  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESS ' : 
Miss  C.  M.  YOMGB. 

LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

BCIBNCB-Beceat   PubUcaUons;   SodeUes;  Meetiags  Neit  Week, 

FINE  ART8-Mr.  Lcgrps  at  Osrfax's  Gallery ;  The  Newly  IXeeovend 
Vermeer;  The  Blyth  Sale;  Gossip. 

**^Si9:r'  ™**"  »"*  -*■""  '].""»•  Mwqtte  of  Lore ' ;  Popular  Coacert 

Phiiharmoalc  Coacert ;  Gossip ;  Perfonaaaces  Next  Week. 
DRAMA—'  The  Rerdlted  Daughter ' ;  Library  Table ;  Ooesip. 


The  ATHENjEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    C.     FRANCIS.    Athenasam    Office,    Bream's  Buildings,    Chancery  Lane.   B.C. 

And  of  aa  NtwMgttQtt, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [•*  8.  vn.  aml  27. 


STANDARD  JSm^ 

ROBERT  BROWNING'S  COMP^  Cheaper  Edition.    Edited 

and  Aiiuotaled  by  AUGU8T1NB  BIRRBLL.  K.O.  M.P..  and  FBBDBBIO  G.  KBNTON.    3  troU.  laife  orown  Svo. 
bound  lu  cloth.  ^It  top,  with  a  Ponrmit^Prontiipleoe  to  each  Volume,  It.  6tf.  p«r  vol. 

*«•  Alio  the  UNIFOKM  BDITION  of  BUBBBT  BBOWNINQ'S  WORKS,  in  17  vols,  orown  8vo, 
bound  In  Seu,  4/.  bt. ;  or  the  Volnmei  bound  separately,  b»,  each. 

ELIZABETH  BABBETT  BBOWNINQ'S  POETICAL  WOBKS.    Cheaper 

Bdttlon.     1  vol.  with  Portrait  and  a  Faotimlle  of  the  MS.  of  *A  Sonnet  from  the  Portugueee,*  large  crown  8vd, 
bound  in  cloth,  gilt  top,  7«.  lid, 

%»  Also  the  UNIFOBM  BOITION.  in  6  vob.  small  crown  8vo,  bt.  each.    This  BdiUon  eontains  6  Portnito  of 
Mrs.  Browning  at  different  periods  of  life,  and  a  few  Illustrations. 

mSS  THACEEBAY'S  WOBKS.  Umform  Edition.  Each  Volume  illustrated 


ConUtUs. 
Htory  of 
Djmond. 


by  a  Vignette  Title-Pftge.    10  vols.  Urge  orown  8vo,  6t.  each. 

tUnU.—Oid  KentiBgtoB-'m  VUlsfe  on  the  Cliff— Five  Old  Frleade  sad  a  Young  Filaoe— To  Eethcr.  Ac-Btasbeard's  Kejs,  te.— Tks 

Df  KUabettai  Two  Hours  j  Froa>  aa  lalaad-ToUers  and  Splnsters-MlM  Aageli  Pnlham  Lawn— Miss  WilUavMoa's  DtvBgaUaas    Mti 

Id. 

LIFE  and  WOBKS  of  CHABLOTTE,  EMILT,  and  ANNE    BBONTE. 

The  **  Haworth  "  Bdition.  In  7  vols,  large  orown  8vo,  doth,  gUt  top,  tt«.  each ;  or  in  Set  oloth  Uudlng,  gilt  tup. 
21.  2$,  the  Set.  With  Portraiu  and  Illustrations.  Including  Vtows  of  Places  described  in  the  Worka,  reprodooed 
from  Photographs  specially  taken  for  the  purpose  by  Mr.  W.  B.  Bland,  of  Duffield,  Derby,  in  oonjiiiiotlon  with 
Mr.  0.  Barrow  Keene,  of  Derby,  Medalisu  of  the  Boyal  Photographic  Bodety.  Introductions  to  the  Works  are 
supplied  by  Mrs  HUMPUBY  WARD,  and  an  Intnxluetion  and  Notes  to  Mrs.  Gaskell's  *  Ufe  of  Oharlotto  BrontS* 
by  Mr.  OLBMBNT  K.  SUUBTBR,  the  eminent  Bront«  authority. 
*«*  Also  the  LIBRARY  BDITION,  7  vols.,  each  containing  5  Illustrations,  large  crown  8vo,  bt.  each.    The  POPULAR 

BDITION,  7  vob.  small  post  8vo,  limp  doih,  or  doth  boards,  gilt  top,  'Jt.  6d.  each.    And  the  POOKBT  BDITION,  7  vols. 

small  fcap.  8vo,  each  with  Frontispiece,  bound  in  doth,  with  pit  top,  Is.  ed.  per  Volume ;  or  the  Set.  In  gold-lettered  ebUi 

case,  12«.  ed. 

MRS.  GASKELL'S  WORKS.    Uniform  Edition.     7  vols.,  each  containiitf 

4  Illustrations,  3t.  Hd.  each,  bound  in  doih. 
G9M<eHl4.— Wires  and  Daoffhters— North  and  SovUi— Sylrla's  Lovers— Graaford,  and  other  Tales— Mary  Bartoa,  aad  other  Tales— Bath,  sal 
other  Tales— Ltsjtle  L«iirh.  and  other  IWes. 

%*  Also  the  POPULAR  BDITION.  in  7  vols,  small  poet  8vo.  limp  oloth,  or  cloth  boards,  gilt  top,  8v.  tfrf.  each,  led 
the  POOKBT  BDITION.  in  8  vols,  small  fcap.  8vo,  bound  in  cloth,  with  gilt  top,  is.  ed.  per  Voflime ;  or  tha  Set.  in  fsM- 
lettered  doth  case,  14s. 

LEIGH  HUNT'S  WORKS.    7  vols.  fcap.  8vo,  limp  cloth,  or  cloth  boards, 

gilt  top.  2».  <k/, 
CbNlm(4i.-Iinafflnatlon  and  Fancy -The  Town— Aatobloicnphj  of  Leigh  Hoat— Men,  Women,  and  Hooks— Wit  and  Uamoar— A  JaroTHiBcr 
from  Mount  Hybia— Table  IMk. 

SIB  ASTHUR  HELPS'  WORKS.    3  vols,  crown  8vo,  7s.  6d.  each. 

CoHtetUt —Friends  in  Conncll.  First  Heries-Friends  In  Conncil,  Sooond  Series— Oompaaloas  of  My  dolitttdei  Sssayi  wrlttea  dsrtsf  tte 
Intervals  of  BnslneM ;  An  Bsaay  on  UrKsaixaUon  in  Dally  Life. 

W.  M.  THACKERAT'S  WORES.-The  Biographical  Edition.     13  vols. 


lar^e  oniwii  hvn,  doth,  i{llt  top,  Kx.  each.    This  New  and  Bevised  Bdition  comprises  additiooal  material  and  biUurte 
Unpublished  Letters,  tiketohes,  and  Drawings,  derived  from  the  Author's  Original  MSS.  and  Note-Books;  aad  mm 
Volume  Includes  a  Memoir  in  the  form  of  an  Introduction  by  Mrs.  RIOUMOND  BITCHIB. 
THK  THIBTBBN  VOLUMKS  ABB  ALSO  SUPFLIBD  IN  BBT  OLOTH.  BINDING,  GILT  TOP,  3i.  18s. 
*«*  A  Prospectus  of  the  Bdition.  with  Spedmen  Plages,  will  be  sent  post  free  on  application. 

W.  M.  THACKERAT'S  WORKS.-The  Standard  Edition.    26  vols,  large  8vo, 

lus.  6<f    each.    This  Bdition  contains  some  of  Mr.  Thaekeray's  Writings  which  had  not  previonaiy  ben  ooUertsd, 
and  many  additional  Illustrations. 

W.  M.  THACKERAT'S  WORKS.-The  Library  Edition.    24  vols,  large  crown 

8vo.  handsomely  bound  in  doth,  9{. ;  or  half-nissia,  marbled  edgee,  121,  ISs.    With  Illostratlooaliy  thaAotkor. 
BIchard  Doyle,  and  Frederick  Walker. 

\*  The  Volumes  are  sold  separately,  in  doth.  It,  6d,  each. 

W.  M.  THACKERAT'S  WORKS.— The  Popular  Edition.    13  vols,  crown  8fO, 

with  Frontispiece  to  each  Volume,  scarlet  doth,  gilt  top,  Zl.  bt. ;  or  half-moroooo  gilt,  bL  lOe. 
%*  The  Volumes  are  sold  separately,  in  green  doth,  bt.  each. 

W.  M.  THACKERATS  WORKS.-The  Cheaper  Slustrated  Edition.    26  wb 

bound  in  doth.  il.  lit. ;  or  handsomely  bound  in  half-moroooo,  81.  8t. 

\*  The  Volumes  are  sold  separately,  in  doth,  ^.  6<f.  each. 

W.  M.  THACKERATS  WORKS.— The  Pocket  Edition.   27  vols,  bound  in 

cloth,  with  gilt  top,  Is.  (taf.  each. 

%*  The  Volumes  are  also  supplied  as  follows  t~ 

The  NOVELS.    13  vols,  in  gold-lettered  i  The  MISCELLANIES.     14  vols,  in  gold- 
cloth case.  21«.  I        lettered  cloth  oaee.  ais. 

London  :  SMITH,  BLDBR  &<X).  15,  Waterloo  Plaoe,  &W. 

—^—^^——^^■^^—^^^—^■^-^—^— —  » 

PrM0d  by  JOHN  IDWARD  FRAMCIB,  Atteawam  Press,  Bceasa's  BalUttMs,  rHiaiisn  teaa,  B.a  i  aad 
/OSM  C.  PaAMOU  at  Btiaa't  BsHttags,  GtaMMi  laSaiTa-aeMrAy.  April  IT,  SOL 


I 


NOTES   AND   QUERIES: 

%  yUimim  oi  Intcrfommimtattaii 

mm 

LITERART    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


^Whmi  fowid,  make  a  note  ot"^CAPTAiM  Guttui. 


No.  175.  iSSS:]  Saturday,  May  4,  1901.  \  ZlSZl^^Z^^ 


OXFORD    UNIVERSITY    PRESS. 

HBW  BDITION.  OOMPLBTIILY  KliWBITTIlN  AND  RHABRANGHD,  pott  8vo.  oloth.  6«.  6(i. 

A  CONCISE  ETTM0L06ICAL  DICTIONABT  of  the  ENGLISH 

LAVGUAGB.    By  W.  W.  SKBAT.  Lttt.D. 

Snuill  4to,  baokram,  with  lUuctrations  and  Map. 

The  ALFRED  JEWEL:  an  Historical  Essay.   By  John  Earle,  M.A.  LL.D., 

Beotor  of  Swanwiok,  Prebendary  of  WelU,  Rawlinsonian  Profesaor  of  Anglo-Saxon  in  the  University  of  Oxford. 

ifmnudiaUfy, 

Vols.  II.  and  III..  The  BNQLISU  WOBKS.  8vo.  bnckram,  I6s,  each. 

The  COMPLETE  WORKS  of  JOHN  GOWER.    Edited  from  the  Manu- 

Mtipta,  with  IntroducUon*.  Notes,  and  Glouaries,  by  G.  O.  MAOAULAY,  M.A..  formerly  Fellow  of  Trinity  Oollese, 
Oambridce.    Already  pubUshed  t  Vol.  I.  The  FKBNOU  WORKS.    With  a  Facsimile.    ie«. 

Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  296,  with  2  Maps,  4s.  tttf. 

The  RELATIONS  of  GEOGRAPHY  and  HISTORY.    By  the  Rev.  H.  B. 

GBOBGB,  M.A.  Fellow  of  New  College,  Oxford. 

THIRD  BDITION.  oblong  4to,  boards  7«.  (U. 

GENEALOGICAL  TABLES  ILLUSTRATIVE  of  MODERN  HISTORY. 

By  the  SAMB  AUTHOR. 

8BC0ND  BDITION.  4to,  cloth,  lOt.  <kf. 

BEGISTRUM  SACRUM  ANGLICANUM.     An  Attempt  to  exhibit  the 

Course  of  Bplsoopal  Suooession  in  England.    By  the  late  W.  STUBBS,  D.D.,  Bishop  of  Oxford. 
8vo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  with  8  Plans  (and  KeysX  16i.  net. 

BAGHDAD  DURING  the  ABBASID  CAUFHATE.    From  Contemporary 

Arabic  and  Persian  Sources.    By  G.  LB  STBANGB. 

a  vols.  8vo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  21«. 

CELTIC  FOLK-LORE :  Welsh  and  Manx.    By  John  Rhys,  M.A.  D.Litt 

Hon.  LL.D.  of  the  University  of  Bdinburgh,  Professor  of  Celtic,  Principal  of  Jesus  College,  Oxford. 

4te,  cloth. 

A  DICTIONARY  of  VERNACULAR  SYRIAC,  as  Spoken  by  the  Eastern 

Syrians  of  Kurdistan,  North-West  Persia,  and  the  Plain  of  Mosul.  With  Illustrations  from  the  DialecU  of  the  Jews 
of  Zakhu  and  Azerbaijan,  and  of  the  Western  Syrians  of  Tur  *Abdln  and  Ma'lula.  By  A.  J.  MACLBAN,  M.A. 
F.B.G.S.  iShortli,. 

A  Liar  OF  NEW  AND  IlECKNT  BOOKS  POST  FREE  ON  APPLICATION 
London:   HBNBY  FKOWDB,  Oxford  Uniyenity  Prett  Wateho^iM,  kmf^xi  Cotti^v,  Y.X:.. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       n^^  a.  vu.UAr4.ua. 

JOHN    C.    NIMMO'S    NEW    BOOKS. 

IMPORTANT  WOBK  ON  BRITISH  BIROS-Now  ready. 

1  vol.  demy  8vo,  buoknun  olbth,  gilt  top.  with  35  Coloured  Plates,  price  3^.  3f.  net. 

A    HANDBOOK     OF     BRITISH     BIRDS. 

Showing  the  Distribution  of  the  Resident  and  Migratory  Species  in  the  British  Islands, 
with  an  Index  to  the  Records  of  the  Rarer  Visitants. 

By  J.  B.  HARTING,  F.L.S.  F.Z.S.,  Member  of  the  British  Ornithologists*  Union. 
With  35  Coloured  Plates  carefully  reproduced  from  Original  Drawing*  by  the  late  Prof.  Sohlegel. 

COMPLETION  OF  THE  NEW  ILLUSTRATED  LIMITED  EDITION  OF 
J.  H.  JESSE'S  HISTORICAL  WORKS. 

Uniform  with  the  Bdltion  of  Lady  Jackson's  'French  Memoirs'  recently  published  in  14  vols,  by  Mr.  Himmo. 

3U  vols,  demy  8vo,  illustrated  with  nearly  INK)  Btchings  and  Photogravure  Plates  printed  on  Japan  Pltper,  the  Tsxioet 

clear,  soft,  deckle-edge  laid  paper,  cloth  elegant,  price  13/.  13*.  net  for  the  Complete  Set. 

ENGLISH  HISTORICAL  MEMOIRS. 

By  JOHN  HBNBAOB  JBS8B. 

MEMOIRS  of  KING  RICHaBD  the 

THIRD  and  some  of  his  CONTBMPORABIBS.   1  vol 
with  full  Index  and  6  Illustrations. 

MEMOIRS  Of  the  LIFE  and  RBIOM 

of  KINQ  GBORGB  the  THIBD.    6  vols,  with  foU 
Index  and  33  Illustrations. 

MEMOIRS  Of  GEORGE   8BLWTN 

and  his  C0NTBMP0BABIB8.    4  vols,  with  fall  Iota 
and  23  Illustrations. 

LONDON  and  its  CELEBRITUBS; 

and  The  Last  War  of  the  Boses.    3  vols,  with  faU  Iiida 
and  18  Illustrations. 

MEMOIRS   of    CELEBRATID 

BTONIANS.  2  vols,  with  full  Index  and  11  lUiiitntkiai. 


MEMOIRS  of  the  COURT  of  Eng- 
land DURING  the  RBIGN  of  the  STUARTS,  includ- 
ing the  PROTBCTORATB.  6  vols,  with  full  Index  and 
41111ustrations. 

MEMOIRS  of  the  COURT  of  ENG- 
LAND from  the  BBVOLUTION  in  1688  to  the  DBATU 
of  GBORGB  the  SBOOND.  4  vols,  with  full  Index  and 
27  Illustrations. 

MEMOIRS  of  the  PRETENDERS  and 

their  ADHBRBNTS.     3  vob.  with  full  Index  and  18 
Illustrations. 

LITERARY  and   HISTORICAL 

MBMORI ALS  of  LONDON.   3  vob.  with  f  uU  Index  and 
14  Illustrations. 


A  NEW  ILLUSTRATED  WORK  ON  THE  SOCIAL  LIFE  AND  DIVERSIONS  OF 

BYGONE  LONDON. 

In  2  vols,  small  4to,  cloth,  gilt  top,  with  12  Illustrations  from  Contemporary  Sources,  Coloured  1^  Hand,  price  301.  vA. 

THE  AMUSEMENTS  OF  OLD  LONDON: 

Being  a  Survey  of  the  SporU  and  Pastimes,  Tea  Gardens  and  Parks,  Playhouses,  and  other  Diversions  of  the  Peoptoof 
London,  from  the  Seventeenth  to  the  Beginning  of  the  Nineteenth  Century. 

By  WILLIAM  B.  BOULTON. 

GUARDIAN.—**  Two  charming  and  thoroughly  attractive  volumes,  with  the  great  recommendation  that  tbtjtn  si 
pleasant  to  read  as  the  illustrations  are  excellent  as  works  of  art." 

MORNING  POUT.—**  The  work  gives  evidence  of  much  pahastaking  investigation,  and  a  number  of  lively  i. 
add  to  its  engaging  qualities,  which  are  further  increased  by  hand-painted  illustrations  from  contemporary  pdnts." 

GLrASGUrr   aSHAi*D.—'**Th^   nmrinA   aavpmmI    has    hiimi   nhnsAn  «r{t.h    AnntKl    {•MlflrvMAn*-.       fPKA  •■.*Vm..  k..  mmu 

right  sources,  to  the  contemporary 

tins  industrious  literary  " 

facts  of  the  most  curious 

contemporary  sources,  and  coloured  by  hand, 


reproductions,  I 


THE    SEMITIC    SERIES. 

AN  IMPORTANT  NBW  SBBIBS  OF  STANDARD  HANDBOOKS  ON  THB  BABYLONIANS,  ASSYRIANS,  AID 
ALLIBD  SBMITIC  RACBS  OF  ANCIBNT  HISTORY. 
In  crown  8vo.  cloth,  gilt  top,  bs,  net  each  volume. 
A  NBW  VOLUMB  NOW  BBADY. 

THE  SOCIAL  LIFE  OF  THE  HEBREWS. 

By  the  Rey.  BOWARD  DAY. 


London :  JOUM  C.  MM.VLO,  \k,  ^\xi%  William  Street,  Sttmnd. 


9»8.vilmat4,i9oi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


341 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  MAY  K  1901, 

CONTENTS. -No.  175. 
)TBB :— PAintod  and  Bngraved  Portraite,  341— Comedy, 
M3~ShakespeftrUna,  343  — Patmore  and  Swedenborg— 
May  Day  and  If  ay  Batter  in  1490 -Shakespeare's  BpiUpb 
ia  Labourdin  Baakiflh— "  loam,"  315— Lotus  Flowers  and 
Lotahs  —  Mrs.  Penny's  'Port  St.  George'— "Crong "— 
Ooronation  of  Queen  Victoria,  346— Baster  Monday  at 
Mallaton— H.  S.  Ashbee— Btymology  of  **  Craw-oraw  "— 
mieof  *H.B.O..'347. 

TBRIBS :— Society  of  Apothecaries  of  London  —  Moore 
MS.,  347— Joseph  Boulmier— Authors  of  Books— John  Coe 
and  Family —Henry  Pagett— Lines  on  a  Skull—"  Snicket " 
—City  Curio  Collector,  348— "British  Lion":  ''Russian 
Bear  '  —  Pope's  •  Dunciad '— Coco  de  Mer— 'Roeclad'— 
*  The  Troth  of  Gilbert  il  Beckett '— Grassoopper-^Gingall 

—  Humphrey  Coningsby,  349  — John  Mortce,  F.S.A. — 
'•  Callard*  "— **  Flre-fanged  "—Apostle  Spoons,  350. 
BPL1B8:  — Genealoffical  Research  in  America,  350- 
Blanche  Fane— Location  of  Theatre— Greek  Pronunciation 
— Morsay,  or  Count  Martay- *'  There,  but  for  the  grace  of 
Qod*'— "  Petering,"  351— Journalistic  Brrors— Instollation 
of  a  Midwife  — Pall-mall  and  Golf,  352-**Foulrice": 
**Lock  Blm":  *'Chincherer"  — Ipplepen,  co.  Devon  — 
Col.  Thomas  Cooper— Soldier  Ancestors— Flower  Divina- 
tion—"Capt.  Rock"  — Royal  SUndard —Campbells  of 
Ardklnglass,  353  — Ships  of  War  on  Land  — Dr.  Forbes 
Watson— The  Buller  Pedigree— Old  London  Taverns,  354 
—The  Bishop  of  London's  Funeral— Blue  Beard— Joan  of 
Arc,  366  —  **  Gill's  Lap  "  —  ••  Sub  " :  Subsist  Money  — 
St.  Christopher  and  Laughter,  366«>Queens  Members  of 
Uie  Order  of  the  Garter,  367— '*  Anyone  "  :  '*  Bveryone  " 

—  An  iUnerican  Invasion  —  First  Barl  of  Hyndford's 
Daughters— Stonehenge  —  Lay  Canon- Author  of  Verses 
Wanted— Disguise  of  Man  as  Woman— Whitgift's  Hos- 
pital, Cro3rdon,  S68— Carlyle  on  ** mostly  fools"— Towns 
which  have  changed  their  Sites,  359. 

OTBS  ON  BOOKS :  — Hardy's  *Benenden  Letters'  — 
Day's  *  Social  Life  of  the  Hebrews '—Lawrence's  'Notes 
on  Dan  and  Scorpio '— '  Journal  of  the  Anthropological 
InsUtnte.' 


PAINTED  AND  ENGRAVED  PORTRAITS. 

A  FEW  years  ago  the  Editor  of  *  N.  &  Q.' 
aost  kindly  inserted  for  me  a  list  of 
rants  by  tne  literary  man,  one  amongst 
hem  being  a  catalogue  of  portraits  of  £ng- 
isb,  Scotch,  Irish,  and  Welsn  persons.  Since 
hat  time,  in  my  very  promiscuous  reading  I 
lave  noticed  that  hardly  a  week  has  passed 
dthout  the  question  having  been  asked,  *'  Is 

here  a  portrait  of ?"    There  are  several 

printed  and  MS.  catalogues  and  lists  of 
tainted  and  engraved  portraits,  but,  so  far 
s  I  am  aware,  tney  have  never  been  brought 
ogether  into  one  comprehensive  catalogue. 

cannot  see  that  this  is  an  impossibility :  on 
he  contrary,  I  am  of  opinion  that  half  a 
lozen  zealous  competent  workers  could  com- 
>ile  such  a  catalogue  from  existing  materials 
n  a  comparatively  moderate  period  of  time. 
There  are  difficulties  in  the  wa^',  no  doubt, 
)ut  when  we  see  accomplished  in  such  tho- 
"ough  and  complete  manner  works  like  the 
D.N.B.,'  the  *H.E.D.,'  the  ^E.D.D.,'  J.  Pos- 
er's works,  Chester's  *  Westminster  Abl)ey 
le^isters,'  Henness^'s  *llep.  Ang.'  and  his 
till  unpublished  list  of  all  the  clergy  of 
Saglaoa  from  the  earliest  times,  and  many 


others,  despair  of  accomplishing  an  equally 
thorough  if  not  altogether  complete  cataJogue 
such  as  I  suggest  need  not  enter  into  the 
calculation  as  a  deterrent  If  a  work  is  never 
to  be  begun  unless  it  can  be  finished  in  a 
complete  manner,  there  are  many  existing 
which  would  never  have  been  commenced, 
but  which  by  means  of  two,  three,  or  four 
editions  have  been  brought  to  completion 
and  have  become  standardauthorities. 

I  remember  once  wanting  to  know  if  a 
portrait— painted  or  engraved — existed  of  a 
person  in  whom  I  was  interested.  I  consulted 
every  catalogue  and  list  which  1  could  find. 
Also  1  went  to  every  portrait  dealer  in  Lon- 
don, but  all  without  success.  One  dealer  I 
visited,  an  old  man  who  lived  in  a  small  street 
at  the  oack  of  Leicester  Square,  when  I  asked 
him  why  the  dealers  who  had  all  the  know- 
ledge on  the  subject  did  not  do  as  I  now 
suggest,  very  significantlv  put  his  finger  to 
hisforeneaa  ana  said,  "  Here  is  my  catcilogue, 
sir."  "  But,"  I  said,  "  it  is  surely  very  selfish 
to  the  world  to  keep  all  your  knowledge  of 
portraits  to  yourself,  and  so  let  it  die  with 
you  and  be  lost  for  ever.  Why  don't  you  write 
it  all  down  during  your  leisure,  and  leave  it 
for  the  benefit  of  your  successors  ] "  "  Well, 
you  see,  sir,"  he  replied,  "  it  is  diamond  cut 
diamond  in  my  trade,  and  we  must  first  look 
to  ourselves  for  a  living."  But  if  that  argu- 
ment is  to  be  admitted  for  ever  as  the  rule,  a 
comprehensive  catalogue  can  never  be  forth- 
coming. 

I  will  mention  a  few  authorities.  For 
engraved  portraits  there  are  Ames.  Jos. ; 
Bromley :  Daniel  (his  recent  catalogue) ; 
Evans ;  Granger,  J. ;  Jerdon  and  Stebbmgs  ; 
Lodge;  Noble:  Pinkerton.  John  (Scotch); 
Ricraf t ;  Britisn  Museum  rrint-Room  Cata- 
logue :  British  Museum  (Musgrave's  alpha- 
betical list  in  the  Addl.  MSS.) ;  Hope  Collec- 
tion (Oxford  ;  has  this  a  catalogue  yet  ?) : 
the  Caulfield  (James).  Richardson,  Rodd,  ana 
Wheatley  (H.  B.)  collections.  For  painted 
portraits  there  are  *Dict.  Nat.  Biog.'  (as 
mentioned  in  the  several  biographies) ;  three 
exhibitions  of  national  portraits  (on  loan), 
South  Kensington  Museum,  catalogues  : 
National  Portrait  Gallery  catalogue;  Royal 
Academy  catalogues  ;  the  voluminous  memo- 
randa made  by  the  late  Sir  G^rge  Scharf  on 
the  portraits  in  several  of  the  private  collec- 
tions in  England.  I  presume  that  the  owners 
of  those  portraits  would  give  their  permis- 
sion to  have  them  catalogued,  as  they  and 
others  have  done  in  regard  to  their  MSS. 
for  the  Historical  MSS.  Commission.  There 
are  printed  lists  of  several  of  theaa  v^^^^ 
collections,  wViioYv  cau  \i^  ^\«^%»r^  ^  ^"w^ 


342 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       P*  s.  vii.  may  4.  iwi. 


time  iu  the  public  market  Accounts  of 
many  private  collections  were  published  in 
the  Atfunceum  some  years  ago. 

I  have  merely  thrown  out  this  suggestion, 
in  the  hope  that  some  young,  energetic, 
zealous  men,  each  with  a  thorousn  knowledge 
of  the  subject^  will  imbibe  the  idea  and  com- 
bine to  carry  it  into  effect,  and  in  due  time 
produce  such  a  catalogue  up  to  1900,  in 
alphabetical  order,  as  will  supersede  all 
others,  and  be  not  only  the  admiration  of  the 
world,  but  England's  example  to  it  to  go  and 
do  likewise,  for  not  one  country  in  Europe 
now  possesses  such  a  work,  so  far  as  I  know. 

C.  Mason. 

20,  Emperor's  Gate.  S.W. 

[Has  not  Mr.  Mason  omitted  one  of  the  most 
useful  and  important  of  all  authorities,  Chaloner 
Smith's  *  British  Mezzotinto  Portraits'?] 


COMEDY. 
Burlesque,  satire,  farce,  and  genuine 
poetry  also,  may  be  seen  in  Aristophanes,  the 
oldest  writer  of  comedy.  Perhaps  all  the 
other  known  great  writers  of  comedy  have 
studied  their  predecessors,  and  borrowed 
something  from  them.  Plautus  and  Terence 
took  much  from  their  Greek  ori^als.  It 
is  impossible  to  say  how  much,  since  those 
originals  are  lost.  Even  Shakspeare  is  in- 
debted to  others.  He  has  taken  something 
from  Sidney,  Spenser,  Marlow.  Daniel,  fien 
Jonson,  and  perhaps  other  of  his  contempo- 
raries. Sir  Charles  Sedley.  in  his  play  of 
*Bellamira,'  has  adapted  the  'Eunuch'  of 
Terence,  and  has  proved  himself  an  adapter 
of  the  better  kind  :  for  he  has  kept  Quite  to 
the  level  of  his  model,  and  has  himself  shown 
originality  and  wit,  as  in  the  scene  between 
Merry  man  and  Thisbe,  which,  so  far  as  I  know, 
is  original,  and  seems  to  have  suggested  a 
scene  in  Congreve's  *Way  of  the  World,' 
between  Mirabell  and  Millamant.  I  do 
not  know  why  Prof.  Morley  in  his  'First 
Sketch  of  English  Literature'  should  have 
said  that  Sedley  died  about  1728.  There  is 
a  letter  of  Steele  to  Pope,  dated  1712^  in 
which  Sedley's  death  is  mentioned.*  Moliere, 
as  is  well  known,  borrowed  largely,  and  im- 
proveri  almost  everything  which  he  touched. 
Wycherley  owes  something  to  Moliere,  but 
he  nevertheless  is  both  witty  and  original. 
If  Congreve  has  surpassed  Wycherley,  he 
has  also  imitated  him.  Congreve's  Witwould 
clearly  is  a  copy  of  Dapperwit.  Congreve 
remembered  in  addition  the  works  of  other 
predecessors.    Bluffc,  in  the  *  Old  Bachelor,' 

/•-According  to  the  *  Diet.  Nat.  Biog.,'  Sedley  died 
2QAugUBt,  170L] 


takes  his  beating  just  as  Bobadil  and  Pistol 
did.  Sir  Joseph  Wittol,  in  the  same  play, 
almost  echoes  tne  words  of  Sir  Andrew  Ague- 
cheek,  *'I  knew  'twas  I,  for  many  do  callme 
fool."  Farquhar  also  seems  to  have  remem- 
bered the  words  of  Sir  Andrew.  Scrub's 
knowledge  that  others  were  talking  of  him 
because  ^'  they  laughed  so  consumedly "  is 
surely  a  reminiscence  of  the  foolish  kni^^ht 
I  do  not  know  whether  it  has  been  noticed 
that  the  plot  of  Sheridan's  '  School  for 
Scandal '  seems  to  be  founded  on  the  follow- 
ing passase  from  Congreve's  *  Way  of  the 
World.'  Fainall  speaks  :  "  Now  I  remember, 
I  wonder  not  why  they  were  weary  of  you : 
last  night  was  one  of  their  cabal  nights.  They 
have  tnem  three  times  a  week,  and  meet  by 
turns  at  one  another's  apartments,  where 
the^  come  together  like  the  coroner's  inquest 
to  sit  upon  tne  murdered  reputations  or  the 
week."  Corneille's  'Menteur,'  itself  for  the 
most  part  a  translation,  has  been  translated,  or 
adapted,  by  Foote.  Everything  which  is  good 
in  Foote's  pla^  has  been  taken  from  that  of 
Corneille.  Racine's  comedy  of  *  Les  Plaideurs,' 
altered  from  Aristophanes,  seems  to  me  a 
somewhat  dull  work.  Regnard  certainly  has 
produced  one  good  comedy,  '  Le  Joueur,  and 
as  certainly  has  produced  several  mediocre 
plays.  His  '  Retour  Impr^vu '  is  an  obvious 
imitation  of  the  '  Mostellaria '  of  Plautus. 
As  is  well  known,  the  'Barber  of  Seville' 
of  Beaumarchais  is  founded  on  Moliere's 
'  Sicilien.'  It  has  been  said  that  the  '  Amaiits 
Magnifiques '  suggested  almost  all  the  come- 
dies of  Marivaux.  I  do  not  remember  these 
comedies,  though  I  think  that  I  once  ex- 
amined them,  and  found  the  above  remark 
to  be  true ;  but  I  know  that  one  of  the  novels 
of  Marivaux  is  written  on  a  theme  similar  to 
that  of  Moliere's  play.  The  theme,  however, 
is  a  favourite  one  in  fiction ;  and  many  other 
plays  and  novels,  such  as  Octave  Feuillet's 
^  Roman  d'un  Jeune  Homme  Pauvre,'  have 
the  same  leading  idea. 

Shakspeare's  plays  have  been  sometimes 
separated  into  two  classes  only,  into  tragedies 
and  comedies.  Those  works  of  fancy  'The 
Tempest '  and  '  Midsummer  Night's  Dream ' 
might  be  differently  classed.  And  of  other 
plays  many  have  so  much  poetry  in  them 
that  they  can  hardly  be  considered  comedies 
pure  and  simple.  Perhaps  'The  Merry 
Wives  of  Windsor '  is  the  only  pure  comedy 
that  he  has  written.  It  is  certainly  the  only 
one  among  his  greater  works.  The  inferior 
'Taming  of  the  Shrew'  may  bt^  thought  a 
pure  comedy,  and,  with  the  exception  of  the 
part  relating  to  Christopher  Sly,  with  some- 
what besides   which   can    be   i-ecognized  as 


9*s.vii.may4.i9oi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


343 


Shakspeare's  own,  there  was  no  need  of  a 
Shakspeare  to  write  it.  The  other  great 
comedies  are  poetical  comedies  ;  and  of  these 
'Twelfth  Night,'  *A8  You  Like  It,'  *The 
Merchant  of  Venice,'  and  '  Much  Ado  about 
Nothing'  may  be  thought  the  chief.  Of 
these  the  last  is  the  least  agreeable.  '  Twelfth 
Night '  and  *  Much  Ado  about  Nothing '  are 
frequently  lauded  as  the  two  great  comedies 
of  ohakspeare,  and  of  the  two  the  latter 
is  sometimes  the  more  highly  esteemed.  I 
confess  that  I  cannot  see  why  it  should  be 
so.  'Twelfth  Night'  appears  to  me  to  be 
the  most  charming  wors  in  the  world ;  and 
not  even  *  Macbeth '  or  *  The  Tempest '  stands 
higher  in  m^  estimation.  But  the  other 
comedy,  I  think,  has  been  overpraised.  It 
is  more  on  a  level  with  '  All 's  Well  that  Ends 
Well/  with  the  important  exception  that 
there  is  no  character  so  good  in  it  as  Parolles. 
Benedick  is  more  flippant  than  witty. 
Beatrice   is    vulgar.    Claudio's    coarse   lan- 

me  towards  Hero,  whom  he  suspects  of 
Blity  on  very  slight  grounds,  is  ungentle- 
manly.  His  levity,  not  only  when  he  hears 
of  her  reported  death,  but  also  after  he  knows 
that  his  accusation  has  been  proved  false,  is 
disgusting.  The  humour  of  Dogberry,  such 
as  it  is,  consists  entirely  in  misplacement  of 
words  and  confusion  of  ideas.  There  is  a 
vast  difference  between  Dogberry  and  Shak- 
speare's  higher  creations  in  comedy,  such  as 
Falstaff,  Master  Slender,  Sir  Andrew  Ague- 
cheek,  and  Parolles.  Although  Shakspeare 
has  made  a  comed  v  of  *"  Measure  for  Measure ' 
the  storv  is  fitter  for  tragedy  ;  and  the  novel 
of  Cinthio  from  which  the  play  came  is 
traffic.  Isabella's  character  seems  to  be  more 
amiable  and  natural  in  the  novel  than  in  the 
play.  Her  virtue,  as  Shakspeare  has  de- 
lineated it,  is  very  capricious,  if  not  repul- 
sive. When  she  believes  that  her  brother 
has  been  executed  by  order  of  Angolo,  she 
can  actually  plead  for  the  life  of  Angelo 
more  readily  than  she  did  for  that  of  Tier 
brother.  For  the  reproach  of  Lucio  un- 
doubtedly was  just  :— 

If  you  should  need  a  pin 
You  could  not  with  more  tame  a  tonfue  deeire  it. 

And,  had  it  not  been  for  Lucio,  she  would 
have  left  her  brother  to  his  fate  without  a 
word  more.  In  the  novel  she  pleads  for  the 
life  of  Angela  notwithstanding  the  death  of 
her  brother ;  out,  as  he  was  then  her  husband, 
there  was  some  reason  for  her  doing  so. 

Moli^re  was  an  accomplished  verse-maker, 
and  possessed  as  much  taste  as  wit  ana 
humour.  His  art,  too,  in  dramatic  construc- 
tion probably  was  heightened  by  his  experi- 
ence as  an  Bcton    But,  unlike  Snakspearei  he 


never  rose  above  the  region  of  pure  comedy. 
His  natural  element,  I  think,  was  farce.  *  Le 
Manage  Force'  is  the  most  exquisite  of 
farces.  *  L'Ecole  des  Femmes '  with  Amolphe 
and  Horace  is  like  'The  Merry  Wives  of 
Windsor'  with  Falstaff  and  Ford.  But  Shak- 
speare plays  on  many  strings,  and  Moliero  on 
one  string. 

The  Duke  of  Buckingham's  '  Rehearsal ' 
is  a  comedy  written  somewhat  after  the 
manner  of  Aristophanes.  As  is  well  known, 
Sheridan's  'Critic'  is  an  imitation  of  it. 
Sneer  is  very  like  Smith,  Dangle  somewhat 
like  Johnson,  and  Puff  like  Bayes ;  and 
the  burlesque  plays  rehearsed  have  a  simi- 
larity. Gay's  ^  Beiggar's  Opera '  may  be  con- 
sidered a  comedy.  It  is  very  witty  and  very 
wicked.  It  makes  a  jest  of  crime,  and  at  the 
same  time  tends  to  set  men  against  men. 
ProbabljT  it  was  altogether  written  by  Gay, 
though  it  is  above  his  average.  But  Gay  was 
a  follower  of  Swift  and  Pope,  and  the  in- 
fluence of  Swift  appears  to  be  discernible  in 
it.  So  perhaps  the  play  was  in  some  measure 
the  work  of  that  stronger  author,  though  not 
actually  written  by  him.  Pope  says  that  the 
play  was  Gay's  own  writing,  but  acknow- 
ledges that  he  and  Swift  gave  now  and  then 
a  correction,  or  a  word  or  two  of  advice. 
This  interference  may  or  may  not  have 
had  a  great  effect  on  the  character  of  the 
whole  play.  One  does  not  know.  Fielding's 
'  Jonathan  Wild '  must  have  been  suggested 
by  the  'Beggar's  Opera.'  Peachum  is  like 
Jonathan  Wild ;  and  there  are  other  simi- 
larities. Gay  may  be  easily  credited  with 
the  whole  authorship,  without  the  aid  of  his 
powerful  friends,  of  the  inferior  sequel, 
'Polly.'  It  is  somewhat  surprising  that, 
whilst  Gk>ldsmith's  worse  comedy  holds 
possession  of  the  sta^e,  his  better  is  banished 
trom  it.  But  there  is  at  least  one  awkward 
situation  in  'The Good-natured  Man';  and  this 
may  be  the  reason  why  it  is  no  longer  played. 
With  their  indubitable  humour  and  some- 
times excellent  character-drawing,  such  as 
that  of  Croaker,  there  are  such  manifest 
alMurdities  in  both  of  Goldsmith's  comedies 
that  neither  readers  nor  spectators  can  per- 
suade themselves  that  the  plays  are  repre- 
sentations of  real  life.  Shendan  has  none  of 
these  alraurdities  ;  and  his  comedies  are  more 
consistent  with  nature.  £.  Yardley. 


SHAKESPEARIANA. 

'A   FicTiTiouB  Scene  in   "Hamlet."'— 
Under  this  title  a  pamphlet  has  beeiv  \«a>\^ 
by  a  'wdl-miotra^  '^xxasMwi  crv^vx^x,"^.^. 


344 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       p*8.vilmay4,i»l 


Theatre  and  Art\  in  which  he  demonstrates 
at  length  that  tne  scene  where  Hamlet  and 
his  companions  encounter  Fortinbras  and  his 
army  (Act  IV.  sc.  iv.)  is  spurious.  It  is  argued 
that  Hamlet,  bound  then  for  England,  could 
not  possibly  have  met  Fortinbras  on  any 
Danish  plain.  Again,  the  Danish  ambas- 
sadors had  scarcely  two  days  before  returned 
to  King  Claudius  with  assurances  of  peace 
from  Fortinbras's  uncle,  the  aged  King  of 
Norway,  and  in  that  time  the  nephew  could 
not  have  so  far  advanced  his  expedition 
against  the  Poles.  Discussing  Hamlet's 
soliloquy,  Mr.  Moskalenko  quotes  the  lines 

While,  to  my  shame,  I  see 
The  imminent  death  of  twenty  thousand  men,  &c., 

and  asks,  **  What  is  shameful  for  Hamlet  in 
thist" 

It  is  not  possible,  nor  would  it  be  fair^ 
to  reproduce  all  the  arguments  in  Mr.  Mos- 
kalenko's  work.  It  is  worth  observing  that 
the  following  foot-note  occurs  in  the  Oxford 
and  Cambridge  edition  of  *  Hamlet ' : — 

"  ESrUer  Hamlet,  Roaencrantz,  dkc.  The  whole  of 
this  portion  of  the  scene  is  wanting  in  the  Folio.  It 
was  probably  omitted  on  account  of  the  extreme 
len^n  of  the  play,  and  as  not  helping  on  the 
action." 

Francis  P.  Marchant. 

Brixton  Hill. 

*  As  You  Like  It,'  III.  ii.  204-7.— 

"  Good  my  complexion  !  dost  thou  think,  though 

I  am  caparisoned  like   a  man,  I  have  a  doublet 

and  hose  in  my  disi)08ition  ?  " 

The  explanation  commonly  given  of  "  Good 
my  complexion  ! ''—  that  Kosalind  appeals 
to  her  complexion  not  to  betray  her— is  not 
in  keeping  with  the  situation.  What  was 
Rosalind  afraid  of  betraying  ?  Not  her  love 
for  Orlando.  No  one  could  read  the  play 
and  suppose  Celia  to  be  in  ignorance  of 
this.  At  the  mention  of  the  chain  about 
the  unknown  lover's  neck  (1. 190),  the  thought 
comes  to  Rosalind  that  he  may  be  Orlando. 
That  she  could  not  hope  to  control  her 
colour,  note  Celiacs  remaric  (1-  IdlX  **  Change 
you  colour?"  This  in  itself  should  be 
enough  to  lose  the  case  for  the  usual  ex- 
planation of  this  crux.  After  the  change  of 
colour  had  once  betrayed  her— supposing 
anything  could  thereby  be  revealed  to  Celia 
not  known  to  her  before— is  it  reasonable 
to  assert  that  she  would  then  make  an  appeal 
to  her  complexion  not  to  betray  her  ? 

Rosalind,  in  a  perfect  fever  of  impatience, 

is  coaxing  Celia  to  divulge  the  name  of  the 

unknown  lover.     This  speech  is  addressed 

to  CeliA,    Rosalind  has  no  thought  of  her 

self  or  of  cantion  with  her  dearest  tneivdV 

her  mind  is  fixed  entirely  upon  tV\e  mlot 


mation   she  is  trying  to  gain,  and  in  this 
light  we  must  interpret  the  speech.    **  Good 
my  complexion  ! "  is  a  hurried  expression  and 
very  much  condensed.    "  Good  "  (as  often  in 
Shakespeare)  is  here  used  without  the  name 
of  the  person  addressed—"  Good  (Celia,  who 
art  of)  my  complexion  (a  woman,  and  there- 
fore of  like  impatience),  dost  thou  think,"  ^c. 
''  M  V  complexion  "  virtually  takes  the  place 
of  "Celia     understood,  so  that  "Gooa  ray 
complexion  ! "  is  the  address.    As  elsewher^ 
"  complexion  "  here  means  temperament^  or 
"  disposition  "  (a  woman's  dispositionX  wliich 
Rosalind  uses  as  a  synonymous  term.    Rosa- 
lind's argument  is  that  the  mere  fact  of  her 
being  dressed  like  a  man  cannot  change  ber 
woman's  disposition,  and  she  appeals  to  the 
woman  in  (Jelia  to  sympathize  with  her  im- 
patience. K  Merton  Dky. 
St.  Louis. 

*  Romeo  and  Juliet,'  I.  i.  234-5.— 

'Tis  the  way  to  cal  hers  (exquisit)  in  questioD  onn^ 

First  Folio. 
The  multitudinous  comments  of  editors  of 
the  text  of  Shakespeare's  plays  often  make 
a  considerable  effort  necessary  in  order  to 
regard  absolutely  de  novo  a  passage  which  has 
been  the  subject  of  their  operations  or  dis- 
cussions. Yet  this  is  probably  what  textual 
criticism  at  the  present  day  most  calls  for. 
Prof.  Do wden,  in  nis  excellent  edition  of  this 
play,  has  adeiauately  responded  to  the  call 
in  the  case  of  "with  beau  tie  dies  her  atote" 
(I.  i.  222)  by  explaining  *'  her  store  "  to  meao 
'*  beauty^s  store,"  and  has  thus  at  one  stroke 
dispelled  a  cloud  of  conjecture  which  oof^t 
never  to  have  been  allowed  to  ^her.  p 
seems  to  me^  however,  to  have  foiled  to  give 
the  true  interpretation  of  the  sentence  at  the 
head  of  this  note,  from  resting  content  with 
a  slight  variation  of  previous  renderinp. 
Though  he  sees  that  the  parentheses  reqnm 
explanation,  to  treat  them  merdy  as  '^miurb 
of  parenthesis  "  scarcely  advances  the  matter. 
Now,  here  and  there  in  old  Uteratnre  vo 
come  across  a  peculiar  use  of  parentheses,  d 
which  as  gooa  an  example  as  any  may  ^ 
found  in  *  AU's  WeU  that  Ends  Well,'  UL  il 
62-3,  "but  in  such  a  (then)  I  write  a  Never, 
where  the  parentheses  evidently  stand  for 
quotation  marks.  So,  if  we  modernize  the 
passage  under  consideration,  we  should  resdi 
^*'Tis  the  way  to  call  hers  'exquisite' ib 
question  more";  that  is,  "If  I  follow  yo« 
advice  and  examine  other  beauties,  the  remit 
will  be  that  it  will  not  suffice  to  ss^  that  ^ 
is  'rich  in  beauty':  'exquisite'  will  be  the 
oTv\^  ^vy^^^^  epithet  for  her  beM^ 


v 


9»»8.vilmay4,i9oi.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


S45 


show  to  surpass  the  others."  The  felicity  of 
the  lan^uase  depends  upon  the  relation  of 
••exquisite  to  '^question,"  the  latter  being 
the  process  by  which  the  applicability  of  the 
former  will  be  established. 

Alfred  E.  Thiselton. 

*KiNG  John/  IL  i.  574.— 
Commodity,  the  bias  of  the  world, 
The  world,  who  of  itself  is  peised  well, 
Made  to  nm  even  upon  even  ground. 
Till  this  advanta^,  this  vile-drawing  bias. 
This  sway  of  motion,  this  Commodity, 
Makes  it  take  head  from  all  indifferency. 
From  all  direction,  purpose,  course,  intent. 

Compare  Bacon,  *  Essays/  *0f  Wisdom  for  a 
Man's  Self/  xxiii. :  ^Bad  servants)  **set  a  bias 
upon  the  bowl  of  their  own  pett^  ends  and 
envies,  to  the  overthrow  of  their  master's 
l^reat  and  imp^ortant  a&irs.''  The  parallel 
IS  not  noted  in  any  edition  which  I  have 
seen.  Percy  Simpson. 

*A8  You  Like  It/  II.  vii.  53-7  (9"»  S.  vi. 
364 ;  vii.  22).— 

Hee,  that  a  Foole  doth  very  wisely  hit, 
Doth  very  foolishly,  although  he  smart 
Seeme  senselesse  of  the  bob.    If  not. 
The  Wise-mans  folly  is  anathomiz'd 
Enen  by  the  squandring  glances  of  the  foole. 

Folio. 

Db.  Spencb  has  doubtless  overlooked  the 
fact  that  in  the  Folio  there  is  a  period  after 
"  bob."  It  may  not  be  considered  as  doing 
any  particular  violence  to  grammatical  form 
to  allow  this  punctuation  to  remain,  although 
the  colon  has  been  generally  adopted. 

I  cannot  but  think  that  Mr.  Holcombe 
Inoleby  fails  to  discriminate  between  his 
paraphrase,  *'  pretend  not  to  notice  the  hit,'' 
and  ^seem  senseless  of  the  bob."  The  **  wise 
man  "  does  notice  the  hit,  and,  by  ioining  in 
the  laugh,  seems  senseless  of  it — unhurt  by  it. 
Again,  Mr.  Inoleby  says,  "the  fool  will  lay 
their  folly  bare  by  his  squandering  glances 
to  the  companv."  The  text,  however,  reads 
''is  anatomizea,"  not  mil  be  anatomized,  and 
contains  nothing  about  "to  the  compEiny/' 
with  the  implied  subsequent  and  special 
appeal  This  is  all  one  general  statement  of 
the  effS^ct  of  a  fool's  gibes.  This  very  "  bob  " 
IB  one  of  the  "squandering  glances."  The 
meaning  to  be  taken  is  a  unit — that  the 
sale^  of  the  wise  man  lies  in  good-humoured 
indiTOrence  and  apparent  insensibility  where 
the  licensed  jester  has  "liberty  withal,  m 
large  a  charter  as  the  wind." 

E.  Mbrton  Dey. 


Patmobb  and  Swbdenborg.— Mr.  Henry 
Septimos  Sutton,  from  whose  correspondence 
with  CawentryFAtmore  some  selections  appear 


in  the  biography  of  the  latter,  contributes  to 
the  New  Church  Magazine  for  April  some 
personal  recollections  of  the  poet.  These 
may  serve  as  a  useful  supplement  to  the  not 
wholly  adequate  appreciation  displaved  by 
his  biographer  of  Patmore's  indebtedness  to 
the  teachings  of  Emanuel  Swedenborg.  In 
the  May  issue  of  the  same  periodical  the  Rev. 
A.  E.  fieilby  purposes  to  appraise  Patmoro 
from  the  Sweaenborgian  stanapoint. 

Charles  Higham. 

May  Day  and  May  Butter  in  1490.— "Two 
extracts  from  the  '  Malleus  Maleficariim ' 
(c.  1490?),  fo.  70  b,  89:— 

1.  **A8tutiain  diaboli quia explicare potest?  Novi 
lUob  in  quadam  societate  constitutos  qui,  dum  tem- 
pore May  butirum  maycum  comedere  affectarent, 
eis  in  itinera  existentious  et  in  prato  circa  tor- 
renteni  consedentibus,  unus  ex  eis  quo  pacto  cum 
demone  per  antea  sive.tacito  sive  expresso  inito. 
dixit,  •  Ego  optimum  butirum  maycum  procurabo.* 
Et  statim  depositis  vestimentis  et  torrentem  intrans 
non  stando  Bed  sedendo  contra  aqute  fluxuro  dorsum 
vertebat.  Et  ceteris  conspicientibus  ipse  dum 
certa  verba  protulisset  et  aquam  maniSus  post 
tergum  movisset,  ^t  paululum  butirum  format um 
ad  modum  quo  villanae  tempore  May  vendere  in 
foro  Solent  in  roa^gna  quantitaftc]  apportavit.  Et  aliis 
gustantibus  optimum  fuisse  butirum  affirmarunt." 

2.  "In  partibus  8uevise  plurimum  practicatur 
quod  prima  die  May  ante  ortum  solis  mulieres 
villanse  exeunt  et  ex  silvis  vel  arboribus  deferunt 
ramos  de  salicibus  vel  alios  frondes  et  ad  modum 
cireuli  plectentes  in  introitu  stabuli  8U8i>endunt, 
asserentes  quod  per  integrum  annum  jumenta 
cuncta  illiesa  a  maleiicis  remanent  et  preservantur ; 
hoc  quidera  remedium  secundum  opinionem  illorum 
qui  dicunt  vana  vanis  contundere  posse,  non  esset 
iilicitum ;  sic  nee  etiam  qui  per  carmina  ienota 
morbos  expellerent.  Sed  sine  offensione  precedendo 
dicamus  quod  si  prima  die  vel  secunda  mulier  vel 
quicunque  egrediatur,  non  habens  respectum  ad 
Bolis  occosum  vel  ortum.  colligit  herbas  frondes  aut 
ramos,  cum  oratione  aominica  aut  simbolo  fidei, 
suspendit  ilia  super  hostium  stabuli,  bona  fide, 
committens  eifectum  divinie  voluntati,  non  erit 
reprehensibilis." 

W.  C.  B. 

Shakespeare's  Epitaph  in  Labourdin 
Baskish.*  —  Composed  soon  after  noon  on 
23  April,  after  layuig  flowers  on  Shaksijero's 
grave : — 

Jesusen  izena  gatik,  ez  otoi !  lagun  ona, 

Ez  phalaz  idok  ak  hemen  zerratu  den  erhautna  ! 
'     Benedicatu  harri  hek  gupidets  dituena, 

Ta  bedi  eno  hezurren  higitzen  maradica ! 

Edward  Spenc^er  Dodoson. 

"  Inam."— The  Times  is  not  to  be  congratu- 

I  lated  on  its  press-reading  of  Oriental  words. 

In  its  issue  of  12  April  we  have,  speaking  of 

the  Koja  murders  in  Bombay,  "the  seces- 

I  ■    *  Baauuifih  ww  tVv©  'Ejri^^  wvnsan^^^V.  xw'^wii-- 
,  spere'B  day  ol¥ieTvc\i^»a«v^3^^>^^'^^^^^'^^'*^^ 


346 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»*8.vilmay4,i9oi. 


moniata  contending  that  so  far  from  hts  beiog 
entitled  to  tribute  as  the  48fch  Inam^  there 
were  only  12  Inams."  The  Arabic  in'dm 
raeans  *'a  present,  gratuity."  The  word 
intended  is  Imdm,  *'a  spiritual  guide"  (see 
Yule-Burnellt '  Hobson-Jobaon/ f.ip.  *  Imaum '). 

W.  Ceooke, 
Langton  House,  Charlton  Kinga. 

LoTUfi  Floavkils  A:«n  Lotahs, — ^I  juipfjose 
most  of  your  rea<)efH  liave  heard  of  the 
mysterious  circulation  i>f  cakes  of  nie^iL  and 
of  brass  "lotahs"  (little  dishes  or  plates  1) 
before  the  Indian  Mutiny.  It  is  about  time 
that  we  knew  what  these  laat-named  articles 
precisely  wore.  By  many  they  have  been 
supposed  to  be  the  "  lotus^"  or  Egyptian  water- 
lily.  In  his  *  Competition  Wallah  '  Sir  George 
Trevelyan  tells  of  a  representation  of  the 
'Siege  of  Delhi '  at  Astley's,  in  which  a  peraon 
like  a  cro^  between  a  Druid  and  a  Jew  pedlar 
was  handing  about  lotus  flowers  as  a  signal 
for  revolt.  "This  slight  verbal  error/^  he 
say  a,  "of  lotus  flowers  for  brass  lotahs  was 
pardonable^  shared  as  it  was  by  the  most 
imaginative  and  Oriental  of  England's  states- 
men/'  I  see  that  these  same  flowers  are  still 
Ljeing  handed  about  in  a  most  uo  pardon  able 
manner  in  the  *  Dictionary  of  National  Bio- 
graphy ^  (*  Canning/  vol.  viii.  p,  416),  "  Lotus 
no  wars  sent  from  regiment  to  regiment,'*  The 
initials  K.C.8.L  at  the  end  of  the  au thorns 
name  suggest  an  acquaintance  with  India 
difficult  to  i*econcile  with  such  a  slatternly 
error  as  the  above.  John  Willcook, 

Lerwiak. 

Mbj3.  Penny*s  'Fort  St.  Geoege/— I  shall 
be  greatly  obliged  if  you  will  allow  me  to 
make  in  *  N",  &  y.'  the  following  corrections  of 
errors  in  the  *  History  of  Fort  St.  George  *  :  — 

F.  SO,  note.  The  Madraa  Euroi^ean  Regiment  waB 
the  Heconrl  re^inent  in  the  Company's  Bervice.  The 
Bombay  Regunent  was  the  first.  There  h  no 
authonty  for  the  fllatement  that  Bemadotte  was  a 
private  in  the  ri0giiiient. 

P.  7U.  iiote^  h  5.  for  "Hrra"  read  etged.    A  more 

generally  reeeivea  account  of  8t.  Qeor^*^,  Blooms- 
ury,  is  that  it  woa  dedicated  to  God  in  honour  of 
thekinz* 

F,  111,  1.  10»  for  "  privates  "  read mralt-ft. 

R  127,  L  13  frorn  i>ott<iii],  for  "to*'  read  ire. 

P.  132,  t^t  line^  for  "  rendition  *'  read  /mjT^Hi/#r* 

P.  147,  last  line  of  note,  for  *'  1750"*  read  l^'p. 

In  the  map  facing  p.  152,  for  "Church  ^itreet" 
read  Janita  Street, 

P.  1^,  L  2  from  bottom,  and  p.  163|  I  13,  for 
••1760**  read /7J5;^. 

R  18:1,  L  8,  for  "1750"  read  1758-!K 

P,   1B3,  1.  7  from  bottom,  for  "Bowney"  read 

R  m,  L  14  from  bottom,  for  "Heriod"  read 
R  m,  I  h  for  **  de  "  road  mmU 


P.   199,  L  6  from  bottom,  for  *'  Chaplain''  read 

R  212, 1.  22,  for  "  1778"  road  UTfl 

R  214,  after  "  Boss  '*  lowert  Hoxfnirgh  ir.,  mm  o/ 
Dr.  W.  Roxburgh,  ditd  fith  Septemher^.  USt^  a^ 
4  months  aitd  :^  dof/H. 

P.  215,  L  20,  for  **  178&"  read  I79&. 

P.  219,  omit  the  paragraph  about  Col.  Harrii ;  he 
was  not  buried  in  the  cnurth* 

R  221,  L  n,  for  "  ISW  "  vtad  m4^ 

K  22:^  I.  14  from  bott^^m,  for  "  1735"  read  17^.% 

i\  22.\  I  IS,  for  *  M.E.LC/  read  ILEJ.Ca. 

l\  226,  after  I.  25*  insert  these  wortli ;— /".  (IS, 
Xrifi,  an.  and  AM.a  to  lh6  Qnfi^u  IJ^tnant- 
Col&ml  F.  S,  Then  oomea  the  wonl  StephenMn. 
For  "  Kenard''  road  ^Ktiatta?,  and  for  *'  Croon  "  reul 
Croom. 

P.  t^L  Elihu  Yate  wob  the  son  of  David,  tlie 
eldest  aon  of  David  *nd  Ann  Yale ;  thi*  Ann  »» 
the  danahter  of  a  Bishop  of  Durham,  but  not  df 
Bishop  Morton.  EUhu  Yale  married  onlv  oqm^ 
viz,,  Mrs.  Catherine  Hynmers  at  St.  Mary^t,  Fori 
St  Qeor^.  The  Portugueae  lady  mentioned  wu 
an  actjUBintance  of  hia  later  years*  The  stoiy  of 
Yale'fl  violent  temper,  and  of  the  manalauihter  ol 
hia  groom,  t»  witriout  historical  foundation.  It 
rests  aokly  iii>on  the  statement  made  bj^  HamiUan^ 
the  Intertoper,  who  was  deeply  prejudiced  apintt 
the  Company  and  its  servatita.  The  r«ad«r  is 
referred  to  Anderaon^a  *  Kngliah  in  Siam '  for  far- 
ther information  regarding  this  notable  Goreraor. 

P.  235,  1.  11,  for  **  17ij5"  read  I7.it;.  On  bi*  rrtum 
to  England  Ueor^ire  Pi  got  purcha?$ed  an  Iriah  peeti|& 
in  the  manner  then  in  vogue. 

On  the  same  pago,  L  27.  for  'M^mudy"  raw 
St.  ThotmiB^s  Afmiut^ 

Frank  Pbnky. 

Fort  8t.  George. 

"Cron«."— Ifind  this  word  m  the  catalogue 
of  a  sale  at  Tolleabury  Farm,  Stebbingj  Essei, 
in  1842,  Lot  5  consists  of  *' Pitch  bar  «» 
dung  crong."  The  following  lot  inclnofi 
"Pitchfork,  2  short  ditto  and  dung  ditt^-" 
Evidently  *' crong"  and  "fork"  stand  for 
different  implements.  In  the  *  H-E.D.'  the 
word  "  cronge "  is  stated  to  be  obsolete  aon 
rare.  The  definition,  "  A  hilt  or  hanflle,"  w 
borrowed  from  Halliwell.  Only  a  aingk 
instance  of  the  actual  use  of  the  word  «■« 
known  to  the  editor.  It  ia  taken  from  Hftr- 
riaon's  *  England  '  (1577),  and  runs  as  followi: 

"  The  people  ^o into  their  fens  and  t»'^Tistt 

with  long  spits,  which  thejr  daah  here  *nd 
there  vp  to  the  verie  cronge  into  the  groutid^ 
Probably  some  of  your  readers  acqiiabt«d 
w^ith  farming  in  the  Eastern  counties  can  t*ll 
us  precisely  what  a  crong  is,  and  w^hether  lh« 
word  i^  used  in  more  than  one  sanne. 

John  T.  Kkmp. 

Go RO NATION  OF  QtTEEK   VlCTOWA.  —  I  OiB 

just  remember  a  little  book  in  square  12n», 
publii^hed  in  18S8,  gi'^iiig  an  account  of  thli 
ceremony.  There  were  in  it  some  whole-fMgB 
eT\%TB.v\\\%s^  printed  in  oolours,  represetituiA 


•^  s.  m  May  4. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


347 


the  Abbey,  the  coronation,  and  the  Btate 
carriages  of  the  ambassadors— equipage*,  a^ 
they  used  to  be  styleri ;  and  that  of  Marahal 
Soult  was  the  most  splendid.  This  must  now 
be  a  very  scarce  book. 

John  Pickford,  M.A. 
Newbottrne  Ftoctory*  Woodbridg*. 

EiLSTBR  Monday  at  Hallaton,  Lefcestee- 
HfliEK.— The  following  excerpt  is  from  the 
StaTtdmyiot  8  April  As  no  account  of  this 
ciHtom  has  appeared  in  *N.  &  Q,,*  I  aond  it 
for  publication  i— 

"From  time  tm  memo  rial  il  niost  eKtraordinary 
QU<tom  has  been  observed  on  Eaater  Moodays  nt 
liallaLoiif  in  Leicestershire,  und  to-day  ia  to  be  no 
exceptioQ  to  the  general  rule*  In  order  k»  retain  to 
the  pu^Bh  A  piece  of  ground  left  in  the  jjood  old 
day*  the  villagers  have  to  indulge  in  the  doubtftil 
pleasiire  of  a  fame  of  bottle  liickinK-  But  b^^for© 
they  ea,n  begin  to  play  certain  preliminanea  have 
U>  l>e  gone  through.  Two  large  meat  pie«  and  two 
doxen  penny  Joavea  have  to  be  scmmbfod  for.  The 
real  fun,  from  an  onlooker's  point  of  view,  then 
pegins.  A  large  wooden  bottle,  bound  round  with 
iron  rimSj  and  contaming  ale^  is  thrown  on  the 
STOund  for  the  men  of  the  neighbourizi^  village  of 
Medbourne  to  try  and  wreatle  from  the  HaUatonian 
grasp*  It  ia  hardlv  neceasary  to  add  that  the 
•tmgarle  is  invariably  provoealive  of  a  good  many 
^jaaaalties*  When  the  battle  h&A  been  won,  the 
vie  tors  drink  the  contenta  of  th©  bottle.  The  bott  le 
to  be  used  to-day  has  done  duty  for  close  upon  half 
a  century/' 

EvEEARD  Rome  Coi.emah. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

H,  S*  Abhbm.  (8ee  9^  S*  vl  121,  176,  35a 
494.)— It  may  b©  worth  placing  on  record 
that  a  water-colour  drawing  by  Sir  J.  D, 
Linton,  lot  26  at  Chrwtie's  on  30  March, 
entitled  *  Portrait  of  a  Gentleraan,  seated,  in 
hh  Library','  repre«ent6d  the  late  Mr.  H,  S. 
A?shbee.  The  picture  waa  purchased  by  Mn 
Atkins  for  ftve  gaineas,  W,  Roberts. 

47,  Lauadowne  Gardena,  S.W, 

Etvmology  of  "  Craw-crawJ'— 1  see  that 
in  the  'N.RD/  this  pathological  term  (the 
name  of  a  skin  disease)  ia  said  to  be  "appa- 
rently "  a  Dutch 'Negro  name,  fram  Dutch 
kfuaiiifff  scratch-  This  may  be  correct  j  but 
a  different— and  tc)  my  mind  more  plausiole — 
derivation  is  jdven  by  an  eminent  authority » 
Dr  Thomas  Win terbot torn,  in  his  'Account 
of  the  Present  State  of  Medicine  among  th© 
Native  Africans  of  Sierra  Leone,'  1H03^  vol  ii, 
p,  164-    Tfie  quotation  ia  as  follows  :  — 

*^  Kra-hra  is  an  Ebo  word,  corrupted  from  kra- 
Utra^  which  Bignihea  the  itch.  AltJiough  every 
nation  on  the  coast  distinguiHiie^i  this  disease  by  a 
peenliar  nanje*  yet  the  term  i-^ra-h'a  i^ervades  the 
whole*  It  hai  been  produced^  probamy,  from  the 
Weat  Indiea,  where  Ebo  alavea  are  held  in  the 
aigheat  ««tiiiiatloa ;  henoe  it  is  ijkejy  thmr  language 


fthould  predominate,  and  give  oHfon  to  many  cant 
phraaea  in  those  islands.'^ 

1  may  explain  that  Ebo  is  the  chief  in- 
digenous language  of  the  Niger*  All  the 
slaves  who  came  from  the  Niger  were  in 
America  called  Ebo.  J  as.  Platt,  Jun* 

Title  of  *H.E.D.*— I  am  probably  in  the 
plight  of  many  others  who  view  with  mia* 
givmgs  as  to  the  future  the  title  on  their 
club  library  bookshelveH  *  New  EtigHsh 
Dictionary.'  In  passing  I  may  say  that  I 
know  of  two  small  towns  or  villages  with  the 
sign  of  ^*The  Old  New  Inn."  Mr,  Henry 
Sweet  has  lately  written  that  this  is  a 
dictionary,  not  of  one  language^  but  of  six 
(I  quote  from  memory).  There  is  the  more* 
reason  that  the  word  "Historical"  shouhl 
be  maintained  in  the  future,  A  word  of 
authority  from  the  Editor  miffht  induce 
our  powers  that  be  to  have  th©  current 
title  altered.  H*  P,  L. 

J  The  0 1  ford  authoritiea  prefer  the  title  they  have 
opted.    See  n'^  a  xiL  321 ;  S^  a  iv.  184, 337.] 


We  mufit  request  oorresfiondeuifi  desiring  itilor^ 
matton  on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addre^es  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  anawera  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direct.  

SoCtETY    OF    APOTHECAEIES    OF    LONtMJPf.— 

As  president  of  the  Society  of  Physicians  and 
Surgeons  of  the  Society  of  Apothecarten  of 
London,  I  am  writing  a  nistory  of  the  society 
from  its  inception  in  1616  to  the  present 
time,  and  shall  be  grateful  if  any  reader  can 
refer  me  to  (1)  a  view  of  the  old  Apothecaries' 
Hall,  (2)  a  view  of  the  exterior  and  interior 
prior  to  the  alterations,  (3)  a  copy  of  the 
original  charter,  (4)  a  cxipy  of  the  diploma 
in  vogue  200  years  ago,  (5)  the  questions  sub^ 
mitted  to  the  candidate  by  the  examiner,  t .c, 
an  old  paper  with  questions,  over  one  hundred 
years,  (5)  a  list  of  the  masters  of  the  society, 
and  particularly  a  full  list  of  the  society '» 
distinguished  tuumnt.    Answers  direct. 

Peecy  Lod*se,  L-P.SiA.  and  L.S.S.A.Lond, 

Lee  House,  Bradford. 

MooEE  MS, —  In  April,  1879,  Messrs.  U, 
Sotheran  Sl  Uo.,  of  36,  PiccadiJly,  offered  for 
sale  in  their  catalogue  a  volume  of  Moore 
manuscript,  which  was  described  as  follows  :— 

'*  Manuseript  f  ^jmnionnlace  Bcjok,  entirely  in 
the  autograph  of  Thomas  Moore,  in  Prt>se  and  Verse, 
comp rising  Notes  kt'^pi  at  Bennuda,  Memoranda 
and  Excerpts  for  *  Travels  of  an  Irish  Gentleman  iu 
Seariih  of  a  ReligWii,'  \«\\h  wxvra^itQXAN  ^tw^^ v^a- 
liashed  and  uiiv™i*i^^»  ^'^^  t3kui>xv&N  ^^^mj^^Z^t^^ssr.- 


348 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       i?»  8.  vn.  mat  4.  m 


iionn.  A  quarto  volume,  partly  in  ink  and  partly 
in  pencil,  hi  bd.,  m.'' 

We  are  very  anxioua  to  trace  this  manu 
HOiipt  for  an  American  correspondent  who 
is  writing  a  volume  on  Moore^s  life  in  Ber- 
jiiuda,  and  we  think  a  auery  in  your  valuable 
paper  may  bring  the  volume  to  light.  Messrs. 
■Sothei-an  cannot  now  tell  to  whom  the  volume 
was  jsoldt  Hnd  so  far  our  intjuiries  in  various 
directions  have  failed  to  brinR  it  to  light. 
B,  F,  fc^TEVENs  ik  Browk. 

Jo3KFH  BouLMJKE^—Hasj  M,  Boulmier  pub- 
lished anything  since  his  little  volume  of 
'  Villaneilen  *  in  18781  In  one  of  his  *  Bal- 
lades in  Blue  China  ^ —or  rather  in  a  v^iUaneUe 
included,  ajs  I  suppose,  in  this  volume— quoted 
in  Mr.  Gleeson  White's  '  Ballades  and  Ron- 
deaus'  in  the  "Canterbury  Poets,"  1887,  Mr, 
Andrew  Lang  asks,  not  **m  anger,''  but  "in 
sorrow,"  if  "the  Singer"  and  "the  Master" 
(that  is^  M,  Boulmier)  has  *■  ceased  to  sing " 
or  has  "loat  his  lute,"  M.  Boulmier 'i  vUkinHk 
beginning 

Elle  avait  waSnm  aua  k  peine, 
J'en  Avaia  dtx  huit  &u  plu9« 

is  one  of  the  prettiest  little  love  songs  that  1 
am  acquainted  with.  If  the  author  of  this 
little  gem  of  verse  has  really  "ceased  to 
aing/'  I  can  only  apply  to  him  Fergus 
Maclvor'a  gentle  reproach  to  his  "  bhairdh," 
"  Where  ia  the  song  hidden,  my  friendsi  that 
MacMurrough  cannot  find  itl*^ 

JONATHAiff  BOUCHIEE. 

AuTHOiEs  OF  Books.— I  shall  be  glad  to 
know  the  name  of  the  author  of  a  novel 
entitled  'Crockford/  published  by  Messrs. 
Saunders  k  Ottley  (London,  1828) ;  and  that 
of  **  Whist :  its  History  and  Practice,  by  an 
Aroataur,"  illustrated  by  Kenny  Meadows 
(London*  Bell,  1843J.  B\  J. 

[*  Crockford's ;  or,  Life  in  the  West/  [a  bv  - — 
Deale.] 

John  Qo^  and  FAJllxy,  —  I  have  been 
searching  '  Moraut's  Guide  to  Essex/  a  very 
old  book,  in  two  volumes,  and  have  found 
satisfaction  to  a  certain  ox  ten  t,  but  cannot 
discover  where  John  Coe  died.  It  would  be 
of  great  convenience  to  the  remaining  mem- 
bers of  the  Coe  family  if  this  was  found  ;  and 
if  you  would  kindly  furnish  rae  witli  a**  many 
details  as  possible,  it  would  greatly  assist  the 
family  in  pursuing  the  right  to  that  to  which 
fnr  some  years  past  they  have  lost  all  clue. 

J.  H*  Sakoent. 

I'2J,  Elsley  Road,  Ulaphani  Junction. 

Hmm  Paobtt,    (See  9*^'  S.  vi.  332,)— 
"Henry  Fagett,  of  Knockulai!«,  co.   Mayo,  b's 
arUclea  of  agreement  bearing  date  1751  m&kea  over 


to  hia  nephew  ThornaB  Pagelt,  of  Fahy,  m  iwd 
©ounty,  Gent,,  hia  estate  of  Knockglaes  and  all  ha 
the  aaid  Henry's  real  estate  for  «ver,  and  m  caw 
said  Thonias  die  without  nmle  laaue  the  lacidft  to 
degcend  to  Sarah  Fagett,  daughter  of  the  mA 
Henry,  and  in  failure  of  her  issue  to  Mary  Fagett, 
graotidaughter  of  the  said  Henry/* 
Was  thiF?  Henry  Pagett  second  or  tluwi  m 
of  the  Hon.  Henry  Paget  and  hia  second  wifo 
Mary  liourke  or  Bourke,  whom  he  married 
in  St.  Kevin's  Church,  Dublin,  29  March, 
1684]  His  eldest  son  was  Thomas  Fag@t» 
baptized  6  September*  1686, 

Wm.  Jacksok  Pigoct, 

Lines  on  a  Skulu  —  Can  you  or  any 
of  your  readers  inform  me  who  was  the 
author  of  'Lines  on  [or  auggested  by]  » 
Skeleton,'  of  which  the  first  verse  is  « 
follows?— 

Behold  this  ruin  !  *twtts  a  akull 
Once  of  ethereal  spirit  full : 
TbiB  apace  waa  thought's  mysterious  «eat^ 
Thia  narrow  cell  waa  life's  retreat : 
What  beauteous  visions  filled  this  spot ! 
What  dreams  of  pleaaure  long  forgot  i 
Nor  hope  nor  pleasure,  joy  nor  fear. 
Have  left  one  trace  or  retard  here. 

There  are  four  other  verses.  I  have  been 
told  that  the  poem  referred  to  e^ts  in  some 
museum,  but  I  am  unable  to  verify  the  it*te- 
ment.  ^^ 

*'Snickkt."— In  the  Sun  newspaper,  pflb- 
lish^  in  London  12  March,  an  anonymofl* 
writer  on  the  Bayeux  tapestry  says,  'Seol 
us  up  the  wrong  street,  and  down  the  ^r« 
snicfcet^  and  round  the  wrong  corner"  I* 
the  woitJ  micket,  m  here  used,  a  m^ 
solecism  1  Does  it  mean  a  short  eut  1  In  ^ 
*  Sailors  Wonl-Book;  by  W,  H.  Smyth,  ow 
finds  "  Snikksr-mee^  a  combat  with  k°i^* 
also,  a  large  cla^p  knife."  Hence  mkk  wwM 
seem  to  be  a  synonym  of  snip  or  cut  Hal- 
liwell,  in  his  *  Dictionary  ol  Archaic^ 
Pmvincial  Words,'  says,  "  Snicket^  one  thil 
pincbeth  all  to  nought '' ;  but  thia  does  uot 
fit  the  cutting  from  the  Snn^  unless  ^ 
very  narrow  passage  be  referred  to.  Mw 
E.  Dobson  tells  me  that  mitket  is  used  in  the 
Weat  Riding  of  Yorkshire  in  the  sense  (n 
short  cutj  small  passage.      E,  S.  Dodgsoh. 

CiTV  Cur  10  Collbctob.— I  take  the  folic 
ing  fmm  the  City  iVm,  dated  11  September. 
189&:  — 

'*  The  Rev.  J.  C.  Jackson,  laU  eurate^iD^char^ 
cif  Ht.  Ukve  Old  Jewry*  whose  death  ooconij 
recently  at  Hackney,  w*fl  an  ardent  ^leolsor  » 
curios.     "In  a  little  offioe  at  AnKel-oonrti  J™* 

,  va\/&t^uisk%  obiects,'  wntas  a  oarrea] 


•*  8.  VIL  May  4. 1901.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


349 


I  remember  a  ijarchmeiit  m\lp  of  great  antiquity 
relating  to  8t.  Nicholas  Colo  Abbey,  which  cantainefl 
A  tiumber  of  DEmes^  aoma  of  whtoh  had  &  pin-prick 
oppoaiie  60  th©m»  indicating  that  the  owners  had 
m^n  "  pricked/'  or  choaeu  to  act  in  some  tapaoitv 
or  other.  If  practicable  this  ought  to  be  aeciired 
by  the  Guildhall,  or  the  e^borch  tc*  which  it  refera. 
I  remember  alao  a  beautifully  illuminated  service 
book^  once  belonging  to  one  of  the  smaU  Cily 
motiasterieA  or  priories  ;  on  a  Hy~1eaf  were  inacri  bed 
an  inventory  of  plate  belonging  to  the  hou&c,  and  a 
lii*t  of  the  Wara  of  the  Roees,  juat  jotted  down 
MM  they  were  fought -a  piece  of  contcniporary 
teporting  I  I  ihould  like  to  see  that  book  aecnred 
to  the  City.  Mr*  JackBonV  untimely  death  will, 
I  fear^  have  the  effect  of  rohbing  many  of  bis  tsnrios 
of  their  hiatorien*  for  they  wt?re  not  in  any  way 
oat«Jogued,  &o  far  as  1  unflerfltood,  a  circumstance 
which  i»  indeed  to  be  regretted.  It  ia  ^reatiy  to 
be  wished  that  such  a  remarkable  collection  as  hi« 
Ahonld  be  eiicamined  before  it  hna  an  opportunity 
of  being  dispersed  (if  that  is  contemplated) ;  mucn 
of  it  was  of  great  interejit  to  the  one  square  mile.*" 

Can  any  one  say  where  thiii  collection— 
and  particularly  the  "  beautifully  illuminated 
service  book  "—now  is,  or  furnish  additional 
information  with  regard  to  it,  and  to  what 
monastery  this  book  formerly  belonged  ? 

H.  W.  U. 

"  British  Liok  "" :  "  Russian  Bear."— What 

ar©  the  origin  and  derivation  of  these  terms  ? 

Philadelphia, 

['*  Bus«ifLn  Bear"  is  a  nickname  for  a  Rusaian  (see 
Brewer's  VDictionaiy  of  Phrase  and  Fable,*  and, 
under  *  National  Nicknames/  *N.  k  Q./  9*t  S.  iv. 
SO,  *il2).  The  UoQ,  aa  the  emblem  of  England. 
repJAced  the  leopard  (see  *  Liona  mrmj^  Leopards, 
8^  8,  xL  125,  '275,  398).  Mncb  information  on  Buh- 
jfiCtM  connected  with  your  queries  wiU  be  found  in 

PopE*s  *  DunciadJ  —  Can  any  of  your 
readers  inform  me  if  Me.  Thoms's  biblio- 
ffraphv  of  *The  Dunciad'  was  printed  in 
book  forni,  or  did  it  appear  in  *N,  &  Q/? 
If  S0i|  when  T    I  am  anxious  to  get  a  copy. 

Aldus. 

rTbat  Me.  Tho»^  meditated  a  bibliography  of 
'The  Dnnciad '  is  shown  in  l*  S.  xi.  and  xii.  A 
mbliofn^phy  of  Pope  and  his  quarrelst  in  which  the 
late  Coi*  F,  Grakt  largely  participated,  appeari  in 
S^  S,  xiL) 

Coco  DB  Mkr  or  Double  Coco-not.— 
WOl  some  one  kindly  give  m©  a  reference 
to  the  speculations  of  General  Gordon  (of 
Khartoum)  on  the  identity  of  this  fruit  with 
the  forbidden  fruit  1  W,  Crookk. 

Langton  House,  Charlton  Kin^. 

*  EoBCtAD/ — Can  any  of  your  readers  atate 
who  was  the  author  of  a  poem  called  '  The 
Roaciad/  published  some  years  before  that 
of  ChurchOl^  with  the  following  title :  **  The 
HosciacL    A  Poem.    Paaied  for  J,  Kobinsou 


at  the  Golden  Lion  in  Ludgate  Street, 
MDccu"  t  The  copy  in  the  British  Museum, 
and  the  Catalogue  there,  give  no  information 
as  to  the  authorship.  Terre^tris, 

[The  authorship  is  unknown.  No  copy  other 
than  that  in  the  Briti&h  Mu»euni  was  Ueiowu  to  Mr. 
Lowe,  '  Bibl.  Ace.  of  Engliah  Theat,  Lit.'] 

*  The  Troth  of  Gilbert  a  Beckett/— Can 
any  of  vour  readers  help  me  to  find  *The 
Troth  of  Gilbert  a  Beckett'  or  the  'Saracen 
Maid 'I  William  Nkwall- 

"  Grasshopper"^  Gingall.— In  an  account  . 
of  the  Kandyan  campaign  of  1803  printed  in 
YoL  ii*  of  Coi-diuer*x^  *  DeKcription  of  Ceylon ' 
(1807),  the  writer  says  {p.  I90j  that  at  one  of 
the  royal  palaces  tfie  British  forces  **  found 
nothing  worth  carrying  away^  excepting  a 
few  Candian  guns,  commonly  known  by  the 
name  of  jinjal  pieces*  or  grasshoppers. '  In 
the  glossary  at  the  end  of  Cordmer^a  work 
we  fiSao  find,  ^^  Jim^al^  a  matchlock,  or  large 
musket,  which  re^ts  upon  long  legs,  hence, 
also,  called  a  grasshopper."  The  *  H.E.D. 
does  not  record  this  meaning  of  the  word 
(pyiuhopper^  and  the  earliest  instance  of 
gin^all  that  it  (as  also  Yule  in  *HobvSon- 
JobsoD  '}  gives  is  dated  1818.  The  Dutch 
in  Ceylon  gave  the  name  iprinkkouin  to  the 
curious-looking  native  gun,  and  Cord iner*8 
qra9»koppe}*  is  a  literal  translation  of  the 
Dutch.  1  have  not  found  grauhopper  used 
by  any  other  English  writer  on  Ceylon 
with  the  above  meaning,  the  weapon  l>eing 
referred  to  under  the  various  forms  of  gengal 
(1810),  gingal   (1815X  iifi^aU  (1821),  ffin-gatd 

il830),  &c.  The  Sinhalese  name  (borrowed 
rom  the  Tamil)  of  this  cannon  is  kodituvak- 
kuifa^  which  ia  explained  in  C lough's  *  Sin- 
halese-EngHsh  Dictionary'  as  ** sort  of  gun 
tised  by  the  Kandians,  and  placed  when 
fired  on  a  portable  tripod  ;  grasshopper  gun, 
jingal/'  Donald  FERonsoN. 

Cray don. 

Humphrey  Coningsbv,  of  Hampton  Court, 
uo.  Hereford* — He  was  M.P.  for  Hereford- 
shire in  the  Long  Parliament  until  disabled 
as  a  fLoyalist  in  January,  1644,  having  been 
elected  in  1641  upon  the  expulsion  of  his 
father,  Fit^william  Coningsby,  one  of  the  soap 
monopolists.  As  he  was  oapt,  22  September, 
1622,  he  wa«  under  age  when  he  became 
M.F.  He  served  a^  lieutenant-oolonel  in  the 
royal  army,  and  was  in  Hereford  at  the 
time  of  the  surrender  of  that  city  to  Waller, 
25  April,  1643,  He  succeeded  his  father  at 
Hampton  Court  in  AuguBt^  1666-,  iait»T  'w^'^Vv 
nothing  »aemg  \jq  \je  t«cciT^«^  ^  \v\isi.  "^^ 
hi»  wife  lj&tt\c©,  AsxL.  «ll  ^\s  Kx^icoax  \iaV\»!^ 


350 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      P*  s.  vn.  may 4.iWL 


of  Rathfarnham  (she  was  living  in  1675X 
he  was  father  of  Thomas,  cr.  in  1693  Lord 
Coningsby.  1  shall  be  obliged  for  any  further 
information  respecting  this  M.P.,  and  especi- 
ally for  the  date  of  his  death. 

W.  D.  Pink. 
Lowton,  Newton-le- Willows,  Lancashire. 

John  Moricb,  F.S.A.— This  antiquary  com- 

Eilod  an  extra-illustrated  copy  of  Clutter- 
uck/s  *  History  of  Hertfordshire'  in  an  ex- 
ceedingly sumptuous  manner,  at  a  cost,  it  is 
said,  of  some  two  thousand  pounds  or  more. 
It  was  sold  at  the  Hartley  sale  for  four 
hundred  and  eighty  guineas.  I  have  not 
been  able  to  discover  any  account  whatever 
of  this  wealthy  grangerizer;  even  his  place 
of  residence,  date  of  birth  and  death,  seem 
to  be  generally  unknown,  nor  does  he  appnear 
to  have  written  at  all  upon  archaeological 
matters.  Any  material  for  a  short  biography 
will  be  welcome.  W.  B.  Gerish. 

Bishop's  Stortford. 

"  Callards."— The  editor  of  the  '  English 
Dialect  Dictionary'  may  be  glad  to  have  a 
note  that  this  word  exists  in  Qeorgia,  U.S. 
In  'Who's  Who'  for  1901  the  author  of 
'  l^ncle  Kcmus  *  tells  us  his  recreations  are 
"  thinking  of  things  and  tending  his  roses.  Livea 
in  the  suburb  of  west  end,  where  ne  has  had  a  com- 
fortable home  built  to  a  verandah,  on  a  five-acre  lot 
full  of  birds,  flowers,  children,  and  callards." 
Wiiat  is  the  etymology  of  the  word  ? 

Q.  V. 

"  FiRE-FANGED."— I  have  cut  from  the  Nev,^ 
York  Tinus  '  Saturday  Review '  this  notice  of 
"fire-fanged":— 

**  An  adjective  still  in  use  in  New  England,  *fire' 
fanged,'  has  a  certain  force  and  vigour  about  it. 
When  there  comes  about  the  overfermentation  of  a 
pile  of  manure  or  of  hay,  and  there  is  heat  engen- 
dered, it  is  said  to  be  'fire-fanged.'  Both  *to  fire 
out'  and  *fire-fanged'  and  their  derivations  are  to 
bo  found  in  the  *  Century  Dictionary,' and  attention 
is  called  to  their  former  usage  by  quotations.  It 
might  be  worth  while  finding  out  whether  *tire 
fanged'  still  serves  its  purpose  in  rural  England." 

Could  your  readers  inform  me  whether  "fire- 
fanged  "  is  in  use  in  England  ? 

Arthur  Atwater. 

135,  Lexington  Avenue,  New  York. 

["  Fire-fanged  "  is.  of  course,  in  the  *  H.E.D.,'  but 
a])iiear8  to  be  obsolete.  Mr.  Sidney  Lee  had  an 
article  entitled  '"Fire  out"  in  Literary  English' 
in  the  Athetutum  for  19  January,  but  did  not  toucli 
on  "fire-fanged."] 

Apostle   Spoons.— What    is    the   earliest 

date  of  Apostle  spoons,  i.e.,  small  teaspoons 

it'Ith  hanalea  terminating  in  figures  of  the 

twelve  ApoHtlesI    Did  the  fancy  on^noA^ 


Castle,  1639  {vide  MSS.  of  Duke  of  Beaufort), 
there  appear  (beside  **  1  voydinge  skimmer, 
1  skillet,  2  counter-boxes,  10  Skinker  pots, 
7  tankards,  wherof  one  is  whopt^  1  Peucan 
aalt,"«fec.)  "two  dozen  and  two  Postle  spoons. 
E.  Lbga-Wbbkbs. 
FYou  might  consult  *  The  Spoon,'  by  Habakuk  0. 
Westman,  1845.  Much  information  as  to  spooiii 
Appears  in  4***  S.  vi.] 


GENEALOGICAL  RESEARCH  IN  AMERICA 
(9"»  S.  vii.  244.) 
As  I  am  an  American  genealogist  of  long 
experience,    I   read    Mr.  Ybatman's   stote- 
ments  with  interest.     What  he  says  as  to 
the  registries  of  probate  and  of  deeds  is  of 
general  application,  and  applies  also  to  court 
records.     With  the  careless  custody  of  the 
original  documents  it  is  remarkable  that  so 
few  have  disappeared,  but  the  loss  has  been 
sufliciently  serious.    The  very  large  collection 
of  documents  constituting  the  Massachusetts 
State  archives  is  now  protected  by  certain 
necessary  restrictions,  out  all  the  archivwj 
including  those  at  Washington,  have  suffijrw 
from  theft  and  mutilation  in  the  past   Wbtt 
Mr.  Yeatman  says  as  to  the   registers  of 
"  vital  statistics  "  is  of  more  local  applicataon. 
In  New  Eneland,  for   example,  the  town 
clerks  have  oeen  required  by  law  frcHn  sn 
early  period  to  record  births,  marriages,  and 
deaths :  also  during  many  years  the  inten- 
tions or  marriage,  sometimes  called  "pnbiict- 
tions."    The  older  records  are  far  from  om- 

glete,  particularly  as  to  deaths.    In  the  New 
Ingland  cities  the  clerk's  office  is  usually  open 
six  hours,  or  more,  each  day ;  and  in  tw 
towns,  if  the  would-be  searcher  can  find  tne 
town  clerk,  the  latter  will  almost  invanabg' 
escort  him  to  the  office,  which  is  either  in  the 
town  building  or  at  the  clerk's  re8ideiM«» 
where    the   records   may  be   examined  W|- 
definitely,  appointments  being   made  wkb 
day  to  day,  without  charge  and  with  liberty 
to   copy.     The   clerk    may  stay    with  we 
searcheV  or  he  may  not     I  am  frequently 
requested  by  the  clerk  to  inform  bim  when  I 
have  done  for  the  day,  and  he  goes  aboat 
his  customary  occupations.    The  same  bcti 
apply  to  our  church  and  parish  clerks,  whciae 
records  are  often  of  ^reat  value.    I  don't  like 
to  visit  small  towns  in  the  winter  because  the 
town  buildings  are  not  heated.    The  older 
volumes  are  seldom  indexed.    The  New  Eng- 
land records  are  the  most  satia^tory  of  asy 
\u  \,V\^  United  States.    In  the  newer  states 
iu  Holl&ncll    Id  a  list  of  plate  at  l^a^Ysbii  \iW^  v&  W\.\\\KNs^  \k^  %\XxM^t  the  antiqury, 


9«»aviLMAT4.i90L)        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


351 


and  in  the  Southern  'States  the  records  are 
very  meagre.  Ms.  Ykatman  gjives  a  good 
outline  of  an  investigation  in  a  city  of  one  of 
the  Middle  States.  O.  K.  C. 

Boston,  United  Stotes. 

BLAifCHE  Fane  (9'*»  S.  vii.  308).— Miss 
Blanche  Fane  made  her  first  appearance  in 
London  under  Buckstone's  management  at 
the  Haymarket  in  the  autumn  of  1855  as  Lucy 
Merton  in  PlauchiTs  comedy  'Court  Favour,' 
and  met  with  immediate  success.  Her 
Gertrude  in  the  'Little  Treasure,'  adapted 
from  '  La  Joie  de  la  Maison,'  was  a  genuine 
triumph.  Her  coquettish  scenes  with  Buck- 
stone  (Cousin  Walter  Maydenblush)  were 
simply  delightful.  She  succumbed  to  ill 
health,  and  died  at  a  very  early  age. 

R.  W. 

Location  of  Theatre  (9"^  S.  vii.  268,  331)' 
—The  Theatre  Royal  in  George's  Street^  Cork, 
was  opened  upon  21  July,  1760,  the  entertain- 
ment having  been  :  first  night,  *  The  Orphan  *; 
second  night,  'Othello';  and  the  'Beggar'« 
Opera'  on  the  third.  In  1776  it  was  the 
scene  of  a  singular  exhibition.  A  tailor 
named  Ftottrick  Redmond  had  been  hanged  at 
Gallows  Green  for  robbing  the  dwelling-house 
of  John  Griffin.  Glover  (then  a  performer  on 
the  Cork  boards)  restored  him  to  life,  "by  the 
dint  of  friction  and  fumigation,"  after  he  had 
hung  for  nine  minutes  and  was  cut  down, 
lledmond,  having  got  drunk,  attended  the 
theatre  on  the  niKnt  of  his  execution,  to 
express  his  gratitude  to  his  preserver,  and  by 
so  doing  i>ut  the  audience  into  terror  and 
consternation.  Tuckey,  in  his  '  Cork  Remem- 
branoer,'  states  that  he  was  the  "third  tailor 
who  made  his  escape  from  the  gallows  since 
the  year  1755."  The  theatre  was  burnt  down 
accidentally  on  11  April,  1840. 

Robert  Day. 

Greek  Pronunciation  (9^^  S.  vii.  146).— 
Capt  Sir  Richard  F.  Burton  has  the  follow- 
ing  on  this  point  in  his  *  Life,'  vol.  i.  p.  83, 
1893:—  ^      ' 

"The  history  of  the  English  pronunciation  of 
LaUd  is  curioas.  In  Chaucer  it  was  after  the 
Roman  fashion,  in  Spenser  the  English  a  appears, 
and  the  change  begins  to  make  itself  felt  under  the 
succession  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  It  is  most  probable 
that  this  was  encouraged  by  the  leaders  of  educa- 
tion in  order  more  thoroughly  to  break  with  Rome. 
The  effect  was,  that  after  learning  Greek  and 
Latin  for  twenty  years,  a  lad  could  hardly  speak 
a  sentence,  because  he  had  never  been  taught  to 
converse  in  the  absurdly  called  Dead  Languages : 
and  if  he  did  speak,  not  a  soul  but  an  English- 
iDMi  could  understand  him.  The  English  i)ro- 
Diinciation  of  Tjatln  vowelK  liap]>ens  tu  1>e  the 
iront  in  the  world,  bevAuse  we  /lave  au  o  aud 


an  a  which  belong  peculiarly  to  English,  and 
which  destroy  all  the  charms  of  those  grand- 
sounding  vowels.  Years  after  I  was  laughed  at 
at  Oxford,  public  opinion  took  a  turn  and  Koman 
pronunciation  of  Latin  was  adoptedin  many  of  the 
best  schools.  I  was  anxious  to  see  them  drop  their 
ab<)urd  mispronunciation  of  Qreek ;  but  all  the 
authorities  whom  I  consulted  on  the  subject  de- 
clared to  me  that  schoolmasters  had  quite  enough 
with  learning  Italianised  Latin,  and  could  not  be 
expected  to  trouble  themselves  with  learning 
Athenianised  Greek.'' 

The  Owens  College  here  adopted  Latin  in 
'*  Roman  fashion  '^  in  1876,  I  believe.  But 
what  does  Capt.  Burton  mean  by  the 
"Athenianised  Greek  "  pronunciation  ]  What 
are  the  peculiarities  of  the  vowel  pronun- 
ciation in  Greek  ?  Or  is  it  according  to  the 
"  Roman  fashion  of  Latin,"  or  what  1 

Richard  Hemming. 

Ardwick. 

[It  would  be  interesting  to  know  what  pronuncia- 
tion of  Latin  prevails  in  our  public  schools  to-day. 
Greek,  we  fancv^  is  nearly  always  nronounced  in 
the  English  fashion  there  and  at  the  universities 
too,  except  in  Ireland.] 

MoRSAY,  OR  Count  Marsay  (9"»  S.  vii, 
249).— Can  this  be  a  misprint  for  Momay  1 
According  to  Darling's  *  Cyclopaedia  Biblio- 
graphica,  "  Philip  de  Alornay,  Lord  of  Plessis 
Marlay,  a  celebrated  Protestant  statesman 
and  controversial  writer,"  was  "  born  in 
1549."  His  "Worke  concerning  the  trunesse 
of  Christian  reli^on "  was  *'  translated  into 
English  by  Syr  Philip  Sidney,  Knight,  and 
Arthur  Golding,"  and  "  the  third  time  pub- 
lished, Lond.,  1604."        Charles  Uigham. 


"There,  but  for  the  grace  op  God** 
(9^**  S.  vii.  269).— A  similar  incident  occurred 
once  when  Goldsmith  and  Johnson  were  out 
together.  Mr.  Austin  Dobson  narrates  it 
in  his  'Life  of  Oliver  Goldsmith'  ("Great 
Writers  "  series),  p.  199,  as  follows : — 

"Some  of  the  pleasantest  anecdotes  of  Gold- 
smith's career  are  connected  with  Johnson.  No 
one  seems  to  have  dared  to  make  that  great  man 
-rear'  in  precisely  the  same  way  as  '  Doctor  Minor. ^ 
Once,  relates  Jonnson,  in  a  well-romembercd  in- 
stance, they  were  in  Westminster  Abbey  together, 
and  pausing  in  Poets'  Comer,  Johnson  said, 
sonorously  (as  we  may  assume)  :— 

Forsitan  et  nostrum  nomen  miscebitur  istis. 
Ab  they  returned  citywards,  Gk>ldsmith   pointed 
^lyly  to  the  blanching  heads  on  Temple  Bar. 

Forsitan  et  nostrum  nomen  miscebitur  i*(t.\K^ 
he  whispered." 

The  incident  is  also  given  in  HilFs  Bosweir 
*  Johnson,'  1887,  ii.  238.     Arthur  Mayall. 

"  Petering  "  (9^*'  S.  vii.  29, 195).— What  your 
correspondent  M.  a\iy\w«e»^ ''''  ^"^X,  Nikv^  \Rx\Si 
was  origiuaU^  av\A\RA  \a>  VX\^  ^tm^yo?^  vA 


352 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       P^  s.  vil  may  4, 1901. 


crystaJs  of  lime  from  new  or  damp  walls," 
aocled  to  the  other  statement  that  it  was  at 
the  beginning  an  American  miners'  phra^, 
gives  a  clue  to  its  origin*  We  Germans  ako 
uao  the  verb  ammlj^eta^n  in  apeaking  of  damp 
walls,  of  old  dung,  ifec.  The  presence  of  salt- 
petre indicaten  decay,  Perhaps  some  reader 
of  *  N*  Jk  Q.'  versed  in  chemigtry  will  be  kind 
enough  to  expound  this  connexion  more 
scientifically.  It  cannot  have  anything  to 
do  with  a  Latin  petru^^  which  does  not  exist. 
Besides^  American  minera  are  not  in  the  habit 
of  apeaking  Latin  ;  and  the  relation  it  bears 
to  jtetray  supposing  the  above  is  right,  would 
be  only  indirect  It  is  not  at  all  unlikely 
that  the  verb  has  originated  with  German 
luinorsj  who  abound  in  America. 

De.  G.  Krubcer. 
Berlin. 

JOUENALISTIC  ErROBS  (9^  S.  vil  ISg,  230), 
— That  mistakes  are  to  be  met  with  in  our 
public  journals  no  one  will  for  a  moment 
dispute^  but  such  need  not  afford  matter  for 
BUrprii^e  when  the  high -pressure  conditions 
under  which  much  of  the  press  work  of  the 
present  day  is  performed  are  taken  into 
account-  The  tnarvel  rather  ia  that  the 
errors  are  so  few  and^  with  rare  exceptions, 
so  trivial.  The  blunders  perpetrated  by 
public  speakers,  who  have  ample  time  before- 
hand to  prepare  ^^  hat  they  intend  saying, 
are  infinitely  more  serious.  For  correcting 
many  of  these  they  are  indebted  to  the  news- 
paper reporters,  but  these  are  not  omniscient, 
and  cannot  venfy  every  inaccurate  state- 
ment^ and  if  they  could  it  is  no  part  of  their 
duty  to  do  so.  When  a  speaker  is  taken  to 
task  for  an  erroneous  statement  on  the  occa- 
sion of  some  public  appearance,  he  generally 
throws  the  blame  upon  the  reptjrter,  whereas 
in  nine  cases  out  of  ten  he  has  himself  alone 
been  at  fault.  Extempore  preachers  are  the 
greatest  sinners  here.  In  many  cases  their 
Scripture  quotations  are  not  correctly  ren- 
dereil,  and  no  reporter  who  has  been  com- 
missioned to  promace  a  verbatim  report  of  a 
sermon  should  sit  down  to  his  task  without 
a  Bible  and  a  concordance  by  his  side.  Very 
few  speakers  who  trust  to  their  memories 
alone  fail  to  garble  quotations  from  other 
speakers  or  writers. 

Alexander  Paterson. 
Hartiftley. 


Insta^llation  of  a  MimviFE  {9***  S.  v.  475  ; 

vi.  9,  177,    274,    :j,36,   439;    Wi.    197), -The 

United  Company  of  Barbers  and  Surgeons 

appears  to  have  borne^  for  some  years  after 

/£i  incorpoi^tion  in  15411  the  arms  granted 


chevron  between  three  fieams  arg.    But  in 
L,^l  an  augmentation  was  made  to  these  by 
Harvey,  Clarenceux^  by  which   the  United 
Company  was  granted^  inter  aiia^  a  cresL  viz,, 
an  opinicus  gold  standing  upon  a  wreath  arg. 
and  ss.  This  grant  was  amended  in  1562,  and 
again  in  1569,  when  Dethick,  Garter,  stated 
in  his  letters  patent  that  there  were  sundry 
things  in  Harvey's  grant  which  were  contrary 
to  and  not  agreeing  with  the  ancient  laws 
and  rulas  of  arms  ;  and  he  confirmed,  gave, 
and  granted  to  the  United  Company  certain 
arms,  crest,  and  supporters  to   ne  borne  in 
the  manner  and   form   hereafter  speci fie<i, 
viz,,  Quarterly,  1  and  4, 8a,,  a  chevron  between 
three  fleams  arg. ;  2  and  3^  Per  pale  arg.  and 
vert,  on  a  spatula  of  the  first  a  double  rose 
gu.  and  arg.,  crowned  gold  :  over  all,  on  a 
cross    gu,,    a   lion    passant    gardant    gold, 
mantled  gu,,  doubleo  arg,,  supported  by  two 
lynxes  ppr.,  about  their  necks  a  crown  with 
a   chain    arg.    pendent    thereat,   ^*as    more 
plainly  appeareth  in  the  margin,"  with  the 
motto  ''  De  piiescientia  Dei."    These  are  still 
borne  by   the  Barbers'  Company,     In    the 
amendedgrantof  1562  theopinieus  isdescribed 
as  holding  in  his  mouth  a  flower,  but  this  is 
omitted  by  Dethick.    To  Mr.  Horace  Noble 
appears  to  be  due  the  suggestion  that  the 
composition  of  the  opinicus,  nicknamed  "  the 
Barbers'  flying  jackass,"  is  in  allusion  to  the 
qualitiea  required  of  a  good  surgeon,  t.<.,  the 
boldness  of  a  lion,  the  keen  vision  of  an  eagle, 
the  swiftness  of  a  griffin,  the  patieace  of  a 
camel.    So  far  as  I  am  aware,  the   Barbers 
have  never  borne  another  crest. 

Qeorgs  C.  Peach  ey. 

If  Mr.  HEMMnfu  will  refer  to  Mr.  Sidney 
Young's  'Annals  of  the  Rarber-Surgaons,* 
published  (in  large  4 to,  623  pages)  in  1890,  he 
will  find  pp.  4Sl-4£  devoted  to  the  heraldry 
of  the  company,  of  which  some  illustrations 
are  given.  R,  B, 

Upton. 

I  have  a  licence  from  Henry  Squire,  Com- 
missary of  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  York,  to 
Jane  Palmer,  of  Pidsey,  for  practising  the 
oflice  of  midwife,  dated  1716,  signed  and 
sealed.  Robert  White, 

Worksop, 

Pall  MALL  and  Golf  (9^  8,  vi,  444  ;  vii 
52,  2351— Is  it  possible  that  both  French  and 
English  writers  should  be  unaware  that 
^*  pall -mall  ,^*  otherwise  ^*le  ieu  de  mail^'*  waa 
a  living  game  within  the  last  thirty  years, 
and  presumably  still  is  so?  I  reached  Mont- 
pellier  22  November,  1871,  and  remained  till 
about  %%  May,  1872.    Between  thote  dates  I 


ic  the  Old  Barbers'  Guild  in  14&^  viz., ^Sa*^  &\ ^^a^w  v\k^^v&  ^  \>W  ^une  pass  out  of  the 


9^  8.  VIL  Mat  4. 1901.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


353 


town  by  the  rwid  to  Palavas  on  the  Mediter- 
raiiean.  I  beli6ve  they  played  in  the  fields. 
I  waa  told  the  ball  was  struck  through  a 
hoop.  The  mallets  were  smaller  and  more 
atrongly  made  than  those  used  for  croquet, 
the  boxwood  heads  bent  into  the  seamen  t  of 
a  circle  rather  less  than  that  in  wliich  the 
mallet  would  be  swung,  and  with  facea 
strongly  hooped  witli  iron.  The  ball,  of  box 
or  live-oak,  about  the  bigness  of  a  billiard 
ball,  had  the  appearance  of  having  seen 
rough  usage.  The  mall -maker's  shop  was  on 
the  same  road,  just  within  the  town.  One  of 
the  players  was  an  Englishman. 

ThOS.  J.  jEiLK£S, 

"FoixLEiCK" :  **Loc£  Elm":  "Ohinchebkr" 
C^^-S.  vii,  239).— ^*  Foulrush  ^*  is  the  form  in 
which  the  first  of  these  words  appears  in  the 
'English  Dialect  Dictionary,'  rshotild  like 
to  have  particulars  of  the  instances  of  "chin- 
cherer,"    When  do  they  begin  to  appear  ? 

Ippi*epin,  CO,  DivoK  (9*^  S.  vi  409;  vii. 
30,  113^  217,  297),— If  Mr,  Mount  is  entitled 
to  an  ^ology.  it  is  freely  given ;  but  I  fear 
that  I  did  not  notice  the  communication  he 
now  refers  to*  having  taken  up  the  subject— 
perhaps  as  obscure  as  our  old  "  Mosing  of 
the  Chine "  —  at  a  later  point,  where  Dr, 
Nsubaue;b  appeared  to  be  taken  seriously, 

A.  H. 
CoL.  Thomas  Cooper  (9^^^  S,  \ii.  168).— The 
foUowing  references  may  be  of  service  to  your 
correspondent.    It  would  be  rash  to  assume 
that  the  J  all  folate  to  the  same  person, 

Thomaa  Cooper  appears  as  a  justice  of  the 
peace  for  Surrey  in  the  list  for  1650. 

In  the  Parliament  of  1640  Thomas  Cooper, 
alderman,  represented  the  city  of  Oxford 
(Rush  worth,  *Hist»  Col,,'  part  ii,  vol  ii. 
p.  110©), 

^  Thomas  Cooper  wa^  one  of  the  Commis- 
sioners for  Ireland  in  1656,  "For  the  Becuritj 
of  His  Highness  the  Lord  Protector  His 
Person"  (Scobell,  *Actw  and  Ordinances,* 
part  ii.  p.  374), 

In  the  same  year  Thomas  Cooper  was  one 
of  the  Commissioners  of  Assessment  for 
Surrey  (idid.f  415),  Edward  Peacock. 

Soldier  Ancestors  (&^^  S.  v,  496 ;  vi.  30, 
132), — Mr.  David  GUlespie,  of  Mountquhanie 
(Fife,  N,BO,  who  died  only  two  years  ago, 
was,  I  have  often  been  told,  the  grandsM^>n  of 
a  laiixl  who  had  fought  at  Culloden, 

IfiAGUlL 

FiyOWER  Divination  (9"'  f^,  vii.  29).— Is 
**  i3emmequer,  maloie^uer,"  the  formula  used 
in  Bpaiu*  when  picking  off  daUy-peUla  (o 


read  their  augury  ;  and  is  it  therefore  used 
as  a  dai,^y  name  1  What  formula  are  used  in 
other  European  countries]  I  know  only  of 
those  used  m  England,  Germany,  and  France. 

MKCiAlC. 

^HJapt.  Rock^*  (a**-  S.  vii  227), —  The 
*  Memoirs  of  Captain  Rock,  the  Celebrated 
Irish  Chieftain,'  was  published  by  Longman 
tk  Co,,  London,  1824  (filth  e<]ition).  *  Captain 
Rock  in  London,  or  the  Chieftain's  Gazette, 
for  the  years  182ri-6  was  issued  in  two  volumes 
by  Jamea  Rubins,  London,  and  Joseph  Robins, 
Dublin.  Both  of  these  works  are  on  my 
shelves,  and  are  open  to  the  inspection  of 
your  correspondent, 

EvBRARD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

*  Memoirs  of  Captain  Rock'  and  *  Captain 
Rock  Detected,'  2  vols,,  1824,  were  lot  33  in 
Mejisrs.  Sotheby's  sale  of  20  February  last. 

r  i,  J. 

Royal  Standard  (9'^  S.  vii.  268).— The  old 
writers  on  heraldry,  dsc,  have  assigned  arms 
to  all  the  kings  of  England,  most  of  which 
are  now  considered  fictitious,  and  those  from 
King  William  L  to  Henrj-  II.  doubtful.  The 
first  bearer  of  the  recognized  coat  of  three 
lions  pasiiant  guardant  was  King  Richard  L, 
who  used  it  on  his  return  from  the  Crusades, 
his  previous  one  being  two  lions  combatant. 
Whether  they  were  lions  or  leopards  has 
often  been  a  point  debated  upon,  and  the 
reason  why  the  lion  or  leopard  was  assumed 
or  that  blazon  adopted  has  never  satis- 
factorily been  settled.  If  C,  C.  T,  wishes  to 
look  up  the  subject,^  the  following  work, 
'  RemarKs  on  the  Origin  and  Usage  of  Arms 
[containing]  the  Ensigns  Armorialof  Foreign 
Nations  and  the  Antiquity  and  Honour  of 
the  Royal  Arms  of  England,'  by  Stephen 
Martin -Leake,  Garter,  is-sued  for  private  cir- 
culation circa  1848,  gives  (I  think)  the  sub- 
stance of  all  that  has  been  writben  upon  it  in  a 
clear  and  definite  style,    John  Radcliffb. 

The  history  of  the  supporters  to  the  royal 
arms  has  been  fully  given  in  *  N.  &  Q.,*  l"*^  S. 
ii,  48  ;  viii,  88  ;  ix^  228,  477  ;  xii.  408 ;  9**'  S. 
i.  36,  EVERARD  HOME  COLEMAN. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Campbells  of  ARDKiKGLAas  (9"*  S.  vii.  187, 
293).— Anderson,  the  author  of  '  The  Scottish 
Nation,'  is  not  absolutely  reliable.  In 
Foster^s  *  Members  of  Parliament '  it  is  clearly 
explained  that  Helen,  the  heiress  of  Ara- 
Idnglass.  was  the  daughter  of  Sir  Jamen 
Campljell  of  ArdkingSa^v^j  on  whose  death  in 
1762  the  baronelc^'  \aeicwii^  wXi\\i^\»«  >c5v>fc 
married  Sir  J«bmQ&  \Avv[i\5ptoaa>  '^^^%  ^^^ 


354  NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       pi^8.viLMAT4.i90L 

theD   took    the    name   of  Campbell,    Their    the  Buller  fftmily  dates  from  the  marrimge  of 


aon^  Sir  James  Livijigsti>ne  Campbell^  was 

fovernor  of  Stirling  Castle,  and  died  in  1788, 
le  was  the  third  Liviogstoae  baronet  His 
ion  was  Sir  Alexander  Campbell.  On  his 
death  in  1810  the  Livingstone  baronetcy  be* 
came  extinct,  and  the  estate  went  to  hia 
cousin,  Col  Jame»  Callander.  His  father, 
the  antiquary,  was  Mr.,  not  Sir,  John  Cal- 
lander of  Oraigforth,  Col  Callander  (after- 
wards CarapbeTl)  was  married  four  times^  and 
had  a  family  by  each  wife,  Craigforth  and 
Ardkinglaiss  arenowinthe  possesiion  of  his 
great-grandson. 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  add  that  "The 
Three  Graces,"  Tom  Sheridan'a  daughters^ 
who  became  Lady  Dufferin,  Hon.  Mrs.  Nor- 
ton, and  the  Duchess  of  Somerset,  were 
grandchildren  of  Uol.  Callander,  their  mother 
being  Caroline  Callander,  her  mother  being 
Lady  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  the  Earl  ol 
Antrim. 

After  his  succession  CoL  Campbell  called 
himself,  in  error,  "Sir"  James  Campbell, 
both  the  baronetci^,  however,  as  above 
me n tion ed ,  having  become  extinct. 

LomsA  Wallack-Jamew. 

Tme  Houie,  H&ddington,  N.B. 

Ships  of  War  ok  Land  (9^^  S,  vii,  147, 
S3fi,  296).— Tarberfc  or  Tarbat  is  a  common 
Scotch  name  which  is  used  for  places  where 
vessels  could  be  drawn  across*  the  land»  The 
best  known  are  those  that  cross  the  islands 
of  Jura  and  Harris,  and  one  near  Tarbat 
Ness  in  Ross-shire,  from  the  Moray  Firth 
to  the  German  Ocean.  Popular  etymology 
explains  it  as  a  contraction  of  tiu^minfhhdtn^ 
meaning  literallj;  a  b<mt- draught  place, 
but  the  real  derivation  is  from  the  Qaelic 
iairbmrt,  a  peninsula.  Isaac  Tayloe. 

Dr.  Forbes  Watson  (9*^  S-  vii.  247).— The 
full  name  of  this  WT-iter  was  John  Forbes 
Watson,  There  is  some  biographical  infor- 
mation respecting  him  in  the  Jfjimial  of  the 
Society  of  Arts,  1 2  August,  1802  :  Allibone,  iii^ 
and  Supplement  ii. ;  *  Diet.  Nat.  Biog-,^  Ix. 
15  ;  *Men  and  Women  of  the  Time,*  1891  ; 
ana  probably  in  literary  and  scientific  papers 
for  August  and  September,  1892.  '  Flowers 
and  Gardens '  was  published  about  January, 
1872,  by  Strahan.  J.  F,  B. 

The  Buller  Prpiurrk  (S*"*  S-  vi.  487).- It 
may  be  difficult  to  arrive  at  estact  facts  con- 
cerning early  origins,  partly  from  primitive 
obscurity,  but  enhanced  by  change  of  loca- 
tion ;  "  ttiere  ^^as  a  man,  unnoted  at  the 
time,  but  biti  descendants  ran  with  nQts 
tiitough  every  clitne."     Bo  Uia  t^  vm  ot 


Richard  Buller,  from  Somersetshire^  who 
died  in  1556,  with  Margaret  Trethnrffie  {m 
her  third  husband),  whose  grandmother  was 
aCourtenay.  This  seems  a  slender  foundatioa 
for  representation,  yet  hereon  is  founded  the 
basis  for  ''  De  Reavers,"  on©  of  the  general's 
baptismal  namea.  For  this  authority  ^e 
work  back  to  about  1216,  when  Robert 
Courtenay,  of  Okebampton,  married  Mary 
de  Bivers,  of  Plympton,  for  Bedvers  ia  an 
Anglicized  form  of  Riviera  or  Eipam,  of 
Norman  origin^  who  were  Earls  of  Brionnfi* 

A.  Hall, 

Old  LoimoH  Taverns  (9***  S,  vii.  m,  IH 
236).— The  exact  position  of  the  "Five  B«lk 
Tavern"  is  marked  in  Rocque's  maps  of 
London  of  1746  and  1761.  It  lay  betweeo 
the  Strand  and  Wych  Street,  opposite  the 
eastern  end  of  St.  Mary's  Church.  Seymour 
says  that  the  back  door  opened  into  Wych 
Street  C  History    of   London/  1734,   vol  iL 

g.  688),  According  to  Diprose  ('Account  of 
t.  Clement  Danes,*  i.  180)  it  was,  with  many 
neighbouring  houses,  destroyed  by  fire  in 
1781  \  and  in  1782  a  new  street,  Newcastle 
Street,  was  formed  on  the  site.  A  comparison 
of  maps  would  fieem  to  show  that  the  site  of 
the  northern  part  of  the  tavern  is  occupied 
by  the  houses  on  the  west  of  NewcAitle 
Street,  and  that  the  site  of  the  southern  part 
is  occupied  by  the  street  itself.  It  might  he 
difficult  to  obtain  a  print  of  the  tavern,  as 
in  the  views  of  this  portion  of  the  Strand 
taken  in  the  eighteenth  century  (Buch  as 
Kip^s  large  birdVeye  view  of  1710)  the  church 
of  St.  Mary-le-Strand  hides  the  tavern  from 
sight.  The  passage  referred  toby  Mft.  Mac- 
MiCHABL  as  quoted  by  Dif>rose  from  Seymour 
is  not  in  Seymour,  out  in  Strype's  *Stow' 
(ed.  1755,  vol.  ii.  p.  113),  The  **Bell  Inn" 
and  yard  lay  a  little  further  east,  between 
the  '*Five  Bells  Tavern''  and  Ufctle  Drary 
Lane  (now  Drury  Court).  With  regard  to 
the  ^* Griffin'^  or  "Golden  Griffiii"  Tn  Ful- 
wood's  llent%  it  may  be  interesting  to  note 
thsrt  the  arni8  of  the  Honourable  Society  of 
Gray«  Inn  are  "Aiure,  an  Indian  Griffi>n 
proper  Segr^tnt^"  or  "Sablea*^  a  Orifiyn 
Rampant  Gould  *' (see  Douthwaite^tf  *  Gray's 
Inn,'  pp.  247,  249).  H.  A.  Harbek. 

Altfiougli,  Htrictly  speaking.  It  is  not  an 
old  Lontlon  tavern,  it  would  be  interesting 
to  know  when  the  so-called  '''D.  D."^  or 
"  Dirty  Dick  Tavern  '^  gave  the  tmme 
to  a  [>ublic'hou.<)e  in  Bi^opegate  Street 
The  original  ''Dirty  Dick's  House "  was  in 
Leadenhall  Street.  There  are  in  existetiofl 
\  ^mvW  viXi^dv  'g^c^N^  t^iia*    The  old  houne  ^u 


»*  8.  VIL  May  4, 1901.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


355 


known  &3  "  The  Lion  and  the  Case  of  Knives," 
Also  there  is  a  print  of  Bentley,  *The  Pro- 
prietor of  Dirty  I>ick'«  Honse/  There  used 
to  be  published  by  the  Bishop^gate  public- 
hoQse  lines  by  Charles  Dickens  which,  it  is 
said  in  the  document,  begin  "Dirty  Dick  a 
House  in  Bishopsgate  Street/'  and  reference 
is  made  to  one  of  the  early  volumes  of 
Chav^m-B^s  Journal ;  but,  unfortunately  for 
the  house  in  question,  there  is  a  veiy 
materia!  and  important  alteration  which 
has  been  made  in  the  original  lines  to  suit 
the  ao-called  house.  On  referring  to  the 
article  it  will  be  found  that  Dickens  wrote 
*•  Dirty  Dick's  House  in  Leadenhall  Street," 
and  not  Bisbopsgate  Street^  as  the  proprietors 
would  lead  one  to  suppose.  Theirs  is  not  the 
original  house  owned  and  occupied  by  Richard 
Bentley,  alias  Dirty  Dick. 

Andrew  Ouver. 

Thk  Bishof  of  London's  Funeral  {%^^  S. 
vii.  flS,  154,  231).— The  following  letter  ap^ 
peared  in  the  Church  TifneA  of  15  March  :— 

Sib,— I»  hia  Gmce  of  York  aware  that,  by  hie 
dure^rd  of  eoctasiftstieal  etiquette  iluriiig  the 
faoctinnt  %%  Lii:;hfi«M  on  Baturday  laat.  he  Rub- 
jecl«d  himaeU  to  a  penalty  of  a  aomewhat  cdAtly 
acnl?  Appearmg  in  the  cathedral  of  that  oity, 
situate  in  the  province  of  Canterburv,  he  had  y, 
croaa  borne  before  him  aa  on  archbianoi^,  both  in 
the  prooessioTis  before  and  aftet  Everisong^  and  in 
going  bo  and  from  the  pulpit  to  preach.  Now  in 
the  year  1354,  aft^r  tnativ  years  of  bitter  controversy* 
it  wi«  agreed  between  Uie  two  primatesi  that  while 
he  of  Canterbury  might  have  hii^  qxosr  borne  tbrou^h- 
oat  th«  kingdom,  he  of  York  could  only  carry  hiy 
in  the  southeni  proviuce  on  condition  that,  within 
two  months  of  doki^  ho»  he  aent  to  the  fihrine  of 
St.  Thomaa  at  Canterburyt  by  the  hands  of  his 
chancellor,  or  a  doctor  of  laws^  or  of  a  knight,  a 
gold  statuette  of  an  archbishop  with  a  eross,  of  the 
value  of  iOf.  This  penalty  was  exacted  of  Arch- 
big  bop  Booth  in  1432.  Onw  wonders  where  Arch- 
bishop Maclagan's  statuetUj  will  be  placed >  in  the 
ab«enee  of  the  said  shrine. 

8«noiijBl7,  howeverj  is  it  not  a  pity  that  the 
correct  usage  in  the  matter  waa  either  forgolten 
or  ignored  ?  One  <]oe^  not  ^ee  our  bishoiKi  using 
their  orosuers  when  they  happen  to  preaioh  in  other 
diooeses  -  why  should  our  m^etroix^litans  be  lesa 
careful  of  occfeaiastical  precedent? 

P«iikndg«p  March  11. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  have  a  reference 
to  the  original  authority  for  this  statement 
about  the  statuette.  By  whom  would  the 
penalty  be  imposed  ?     B.  P.  ScATTEiiGooD, 


"Would  not,"  asks  IbaguiI,  "the  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury  be  right  in  usiog  hia 
crc^ier  [  =  |mBtoral  staff]  in  the  diocese  of 
Loodoo  whilst  the  see  was  vacant?"  Cer- 
tainly not  I  should  sa^  a  bishop  usos  )m 
crofiior  (atal^  crook)  m  km  own  diooe^  only. 


The  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  can  have  no 
juriadiction  in  the  diocese  of  London.    As  to 

giving  the  blessing  with  the  cross  in  hand, 
thia  IB  just  what  should  not  be  done,  am 
J.  T.  K,  I  think,  points  out.  The  bleasing 
is  given  with  the  right  hand,  the  pastoral 
fitairheld  in  the  left,  the  cross  (in  case  of  an 
archbishop)  held  in  front  of,  and  the  ^gure 
thereon  facing,  his  grace, 

Tho  only  Western  bi?jbop  who  doe.s  not  use 
the  pastoral  staff  i«  the  Bishop  of  Home, 
One  thing  should  be  notf^l.  In  Uoman 
liturgicaJ  language  a  "cross'' always  e*juals 
a  crucifix.  The  altar  cmss,  the  pixK^essional 
cross,  the  archbishop's  cross,  are  all  cruci- 
fixes. In  Mass,  above  the  altar,  a  crucifix 
(or  painted,  or  scnlptured,  representation  of 
the  Crucifixion)  is  a  «W  qiid  nan.  When  the 
holy  nsTue  of  JesuH  is  mentioned  in  the 
Mass  (except  in  the  gospel)  the  priest  in- 
clines towards  the  cross,  />f.,  crucifix,  ag  also 
in  saying  the*  Gloria  Fatri,*  Other  inclina- 
tions are  made  towards  the  mass  book. 
During  the  last  three  days  of  Holy  Week, 
in  honour  of  the  Passion,  those  passing  the 
high  altar  genuflect  before  the  altar  cross, 
which,  however,  except  on  Good  Friday,  is 
hidden  by  a  purple  veil,  placed  thereon 
before  the  first  vespers  of  Passion  Sunday. 
Note  that  in  Lent,  except  on  Sundays, 
vespers  are  (in  church)  sung  or  said  before 
twelve  o'clock.  Gkoeqe  Angus, 

St.  Andrews,  N.B. 

Would  Melvillk  kindly  tell  me  whether 
the  *;  Trinity  Hall,  Aldersgate,"  which  he 
mentions  in  his  reply  at  the  last  reference 
above,  refers  to  Aldersgate  in  Tx»ndon  ?  I 
never  heard  of  a  "Trinity  Hall'*  there.  But 
[jerhaps  ^fELVILLE  is  referring  to  some  other 
town  or  city.  If  my  knowledge  regarding 
oid  London  is  so  far  defective,  I  should  be 
glad  to  be  put  right,  H.  Clark. 

Blue  Beard  (9^  8,  vii.  224),— One  of  the 
fullent  and  b&it  works  that  have  been  written 
on  the  life  of  Gilles  de  Hais,  called  Blue 
Beard,  is  by  L'Abbe  Eugt^ne  Bossard,  As 
this  authority  passed  without  mention  in  the 
above  note,  the  full  title  may  be  acceptable : 
"Gilles  de  Haig,  marechal  de  France,  dit 
Rarbe-Bleue  (1404-1440),  par  I'Abbe  Eugene 
Bossartl  ;  (V&prim  les  documents  in  edits  r^unis 
par  Rent"  de  Maulde,  8vo.  Paris,  1866." 

W.  M.  Mackenzie, 


Joan  op  Arc  (9***  S,  vii.  268).— Joan's 
remark  about  the  English  is  mentioned  in 
one  of  the  first  five  volumes  of  *  N.  ^  Q,/  but 
1  have  not  them  at  hand  to  refer  to.  1  tKvok 
the  article  la  etiUtled  '  1.u^\h\v  '^Niea.Twx^; 
When  at  Hyat^  aom^  ^es&m  *^<>  \\\««j^^  *• 


356 


NOTES  AND  QXJERIES.      r»*8.viL  may  4.1901. 


boy  say  to  another  that  my  wife  and  I  were 
two  "  goddams."  The  boy  did  not  mean  to 
be  overheard,  and  used  the  phrase  as  we  do 
"  John  Bull "  and  "  Paddy."  M.  N.  G. 

[We  fail  to  trace  this.] 

The  desired  reference  is  to  be  found  in 
Lord  Mahon's  *  Historical  Essays,'  the  one 
entitled  *  Joan  of  Arc' 

Richard  Lawson. 

Urmaton. 

The  question  of  Joan  of  Are  and  "  goddams" 
has  already  been  discussed  in  *  N.  &  Q.*  (see 
4^  S.  iv.  173 ;  7^  S.  viii.  288,  415). 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 

71*  Brecknock  Road. 

"Gill's  Lap"  (9"»  S.  vii.  228).— Mr.  Boys 
Firmin,  the  author  of  an  illustrated  Kuide 
to  Crowborough,  where  I  believe  he  lives, 
states  in  his  Dook  that  different  explana- 
tions have  been  siven  of  the  term  "Gill's 
Lap."  "A  very  old  man  of  Crowborough," 
he  continues, 

"  who  is  now  dead,  told  me  about  seven  years  ago 
that  he  remembered  the  trees  being  planted  there 
when  he  was  quite  a  boy,  and  the  name  was  given 
to  the  place  in  consequence  of  a  carter  of  the  name 
of  Gill  having  there  overturned  a  waggon  laden 
with  litter,  and  that  the  Earl  of  Dorset  saw  from  a 
distance  the  accident,  and  said  to  some  persons 
who  were  with  him,  *  Giirs  cart  has  lapped  over.* " 
— Firrain's  *  Crowborough,'  p.  76. 

The  Earls  of  Dorset  became  dukes  in  1720, 
and  the  last  Duke  of  Dorset  died  in  1815, 
when  the  title  became  extinct.  If  Mr. 
Firmin's  explanation  is  correct  (and  it  seems 
more  probable  than  the  story  of  Guilderus), 
the  godfather  of  Gill's  Lap  must  have  been 
one  of  the  last  Dukes  of  Dorset. 

J.  A.  J.  HOUSDEN. 

"Sub":  Subsist  Money  (9"»  S.  vi.  246, 
354,  435).— This  is  an  expression  used  both 
as  a  noun  and  a  verb,  principally  bv  con- 
tractors for  extensive  public  works  ana  their 
staff.  As  a  noun  it  denotes  a  sum  of  money 
advanced  to  the  navvies,  labourers,  or 
workmen  for  the  purpose  of  subsistence 
between  the  re^^ular  intervals  of  payment. 
As  a  verb  it  is,  of  course,  applied  to  the 
act  of  making  such  advances.  It  probably 
came  into  general  use  at  the  same  time  as 
"  navvy "  (».«.,  navigator  =  a  labourer  em- 
ployed in  the  construction  of  canals),  and 
naturally,  when  railway  construction  was 
commenced  in  Great  Britain,  the  term  had 
become  common  among  the  class  of  men 
employed  upon  such  undertakings.  The 
collection  of  large  bodies  of  workmen  in  out- 
of -the- way  and  sparselv  populated  diatric^A, 


adopted,  made  it  a  matter  of  necessity  for 
the  employers  to  advance  to  their  men 
between  these  payments  small  sams  of  money 
for  the  purpose  of  subsistence,  and  also  as 
an  inducement  for  them  to  remain  on  the 
works ;  consequently  "  sub  "  beoame  a  regular 
institution  among  them.  The  timekeeper 
is  accompanied  on  his  last  daily  round  by  a 
clerk,  who  carries  sufficient  money  for  ''sob." 
It  is  a  common  thing  for  a  new  hand  to  start 
work  in  the  morning,  and  on  the  same  after- 
noon to  ask  for  and  receive  abont  two-thirds 
of  a  day's  pay  as  '*  sub";  and  where  men  are 
scarce,  or  work  has  to  be  pushed  on  with 
extra  vigour,  they  are  allowed  to  oontinue 
this  process  even  daily,  the  amounts  being 
booked  against  them  b^  the  clerk  and 
deducted  on  the  fortnightly  pay-sheets. 
Nearly  thirty  years  ago,  while  training  for 
the  engineering  profession,  it  was  my  daily 
duty  to  keep  time  and  to  "sub"  for  some 
hundreds  of  men  engaged  on  extensive  rail- 
way and  other  public  works  in  England,  so 
that  I  can  speak  with  confidence  as  to  Uie 
meaning  and  use  of  the  expression. 

James  Talbot. 
94,  Royal  Exchange,  Adelaide,  South  Australia. 

May  not  the  meaning  of  "sub**  be  derived 
from  "  subordinate  "  t  The  term  **  sub  "  as  an 
abbreviation  for  a  subaltern  officer  used  to 
be  common  enough.  I  can  remember  a  witty 
application  by  Dean  Mansel  of  a  quotatioiw. 
from  Aldrich's  '  Logic'  upon  this  word  at  th^^ 
time  of  the  Crimean  War  in  1854-55 : — 

Quinque  subaltemi  totideni  g^neralibus  orti, 
Nomen  habent  nullum,  nee  si  bene  colUgis 

Several  treatises  on  logic,  thoush  quotii 
the  memorial  lines  precedent^  do  not  gi 
these.  Aldrich's  '  Artis  Logicse  Compendial 
was  originally  issued  in  1692. 

John  Pickford,  H.A. 

St.  Christopher  and  Lauohtkr  (9*    & 
vii.  247).— In  the  Middle  Ages,  when  men  took 
legends  for  history,  they  accepted  as  a  troth 
the  assertion  that  the  saint's  last  prayer  wis 
that  those  who  looked  on  his  portrait  ahouhi 
be  free  from  storm,  fire,  earthquake,  and  floch 
like  evils ;    and  so  an  opinion  grew  up  in 
England  and  many  other  parts  of  Europe 
that  to  escape  from  such  disasters  a  glance 
at  a  painted  or  carved  image  of  the  saint  wm 
sufficient.    On  that  account  images  id  bin 
were  put  in  or  near  the  portals  of  chureheit,in(l 
used  as  household  ana  personal  omameoti. 
The  lines  quoted  by  Mr.  K  S.  Dodoson  refv 
to  this.    In  the  Proceedings  of  the  Sodsfcy 
of   Antiquaries,    6   May,  1887,  p.  388,  W 
ioUowln^    distich    is    given    from    King^> 


of-the-way  and  sparselv  populatea  d\«tr\c\A^y\oVVowm^    disticb    is    given    from    1 
|-  /iiirf    the   syatem   of   fortniRbtly    payTOWi\ayQiiia8Xl\^«»^>^«a^^iMK^^ 


g>^  a  viL  Mat  4. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


867 


Chriitophori  faciem  die  quooanque  tuerii, 
nio  nempe  di«  mala  morte  non  morieris ; 

and  in  Winkles's  'French  Cathedrals,'  1837, 
p.  12,  we  find 

Chriftopherura  videa«  postea  tutus  ens. 

In  De  Kaiholick.  October  and  November, 
1865,  there  is  much  interesting  information 
about  the  Christopher  legend,  where  several 
verses  not  unlike  the  above  are  ^ven.  At 
Willington,  in  Bedfordshire,  there  is  an  invo- 
cation of  St.  Christopher  on  one  of  the 
church  bells  (North,  *  Church  Bells  of  Bed- 
fordshire,' p.  205).  For  further  incidental 
information  see 

The  Antiquary^  viiL  198. 

Thiers,  *  Trait6  des  Sup.'  ii.  383  ;  iv.  219. 

Jcumcd  of  ArehiBoloeical  Association,  xzxiv.  127, 
192;  zxzvii.  184. 

Louisa  Stuart  Costello,  'A  Pilerimaffe  to 
Auveivne  M1842),  i.  23a 

Rock.  *  Church  of  our  Fathers,'  ii.  425. 

Lea,  'Hist,  of  Inquisition,'  i.  49. 

Didron,  *  Annales  Archtelogiques,'  zxi.  121. 

Webb,  *  Continental  Ecclesiology '  (1848),  283. 

Riley,  *Athos,' 206. 

Edward  Peacock. 

The  belief  was  that  any  one  who  looked  at 
a  representation  of  St  Christopher  was  safe 
for  that  day  from  an  evil  death  :— 

Christophori  Sancti  speciem  auicungue  tuetur 
IstA  nempe  die  non  morte  mwXk  monetur. 

He  was  always  portrayed  of  colossal  size,  and 
is  so  painted  at  the  entrance  of  most  Spanish 
cathedrals,  that  all  may  see  him.  None  of 
the  many  carved  figures  of  this  saint 
approach  in  size  one  which  was  removed 
from  Notre  Dame  at  Paris  in  1785. 

It  was  said  that  St.  Christopher's  original 
occupation  was  to  carry  people  across  a 
stream,  and  the  legend  is  tnat  once  a  child 
presented  himself  to  be  conveyed  over.  At 
nrst  his  weight  was  what  might  be  expected 
from  his  infant  years,  but  presently  it  oegan 
to  increase,  and  so  went  on  till  the  ferryman 
was  like  to  sink  under  his  burden.  The  child 
then  said.  "Wonder  not,  m^  friend  ;  I  am 
Jesus,  ana  you  have  the  weight  of  the  sins 
of  the  whole  world  on  your  back  ! "  Hence 
St.  Christopher  is  represented  carrying  the 
infant  Saviour  across  a  river,  with  the  globe 
in  His  hand. 

St.  Christopher  has  an  interesting  place  in 
the  history  ot  typography,  in  consequence  of 
a  wood  engraving  of  bis  figure,  supposed  to 
be  of  date  about  1423,  being  the  earliest 
known  example  of  that  art.  Under  it 
appears  the  following  inscription  :— 

Cristopbori  faciem  die  qnamoumque  tueris. 
nia  nempe  die  morte  malil  non  morieris. 

This  same  inscriptio/i  was  under  an  i^ncient , 


statue  of  St.  Christopher  at  Saint- Wand  rille 
about  which  M.  Langlois  says  :— 

*'  Au  reste  on  ne  pent  dtre  surpris  du  role  exces- 
sivement  important  et  presoue  unique  que  ce  saint 
g6ant  remplissait  dans  le  cultedes  images,  quand  on 
songe  qu'on  6tait  alors  persuade  du'il  suffisait 
d'envisager  la  sienne,  avec  (luelque  devotion,  \vo\iv 
6tre  garanti,  au  moins  pendant  la  joumee,  des  plus 
graves  accidens  physiques." 

In  Barnaby  Qooge's  English  translation  of 
Kirchmeyer's  poem  'Popish  Kingdoms'  are 
the  following  lines  :— 
Great  Christopher,  that  painted  is  with  body  big 

and  tall. 
Doth  even  the  same,*  who  doth  preserve  and  kee|)e 

his  servants  all 
From  fearful  1  terrours  of  the  night,  and  makes  them 

well  to  rest. 
By  whom  they  also  all  their  life  with  divers  joys  are 
blest. 

CoN8TAN(^B  Russell. 
Swallowfield,  Reading. 

Queens  Members  of  the  Order  op  the 
Qarter  (9"*  S.  vii.   166).— In  correcting  an 
error  Truth  has  itself  fallen  into  a  mistake. 
It  is  not  the  case  that  Queen  Alexandra  is 
the  first  queen  consort  who  has  worn  a  blue 
ribbon.    In  the  early  days  of  the  Order  it 
was  the  invariable  rule  for  queens  consort 
to  be  decorated  with  the  Garter.    This  was 
the  case  with  Anne  of  Luxemburg,  queen 
of  Richard  II.  :  Joan  of  Navarre,  queen  of 
Henry    IV. ;    Katherine   of    France,   queen 
of  Henry  V. ;  Margaret  of  Anjou,  queen  of 
Henry    Vl. ;   Elizabeth    Widvile,    queen    of 
Edward  IV. ;  and  the  Lady  Elizabeth,  eldest 
daughter  of  that  sovereign,  and  afterwards 
queen    consort   of    Henry  VII.     With   this 
queen    the    practice    seems  to  have  ceased, 
tnoueh  an  attempt  was  made  in  the  time 
of  Charles  1.  to  revive  it,  when  Sir  James 
Palmer,  acting  as  deputy  for  Sir  Thomas 
Rowe,  Chancellor,  moved  the  sovereign 
**  that  the  ladies  of  the  Knights-companions  might 
have  the  privilege  to  wear  a  Garter  of  the  Order 
about  their  arms ;  and  an  upi)er  robe,  at  festival 
times,  according  to  ancient  usage." 
Thequeen  apparently  approved  of  this  motion, 
and  after  some  discussion  a  chapter  was  ap- 
pointed to  be  held  for  the  purpose  of  deciding 
"  how  it  were  fittest  to  be  done  for  the  honour 
of  the  Order";  but  owing,  as  it  is  supposeti, 
to  the  civil  war,  nothing  was  done  therein.t 
It  does  not  seem  to  havo  been  the  usage  to 
admit  the  wives  of  all  the  knip;hts-compan ions 
to  this  privilege,  but  a  considerable  number 
had   rooes  and  garters  provided   for  them. 
Beltz,  in  his  *  Memorials  of  the  Order,'  p.  ccxxi. 


*  /.e.,  keeps  m&rinerft  ttoisv  (\AXktt!bT%« 
t  Ashmoltfi  *  Il\Elors  o\  xVv^ VNtW ;  v— ^'^^^V^^'^^ 
by  Beltz,  p.  c.x\, 


358 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       P*  s.  vil  may  4,  looi. 


gives  a  list  of  fifty-six  princesses  of  the  blood 
royal  and  other  ladies  of  high  rank,  exclusive 
of  the  queens  consort  whose  names  I  have 
{riven  above,  who  were  created  Larlies  of  the 
Order  between  the  reigns  of  Edward  III.  and 
Henry  VIL  Nor  is  Truth  quite  accurate  in 
stating  that  every  **  sovereign,  on  ascending 
the  throne,  becomes  ip»o  facto  a  Knight  of 
the  Garter."  The  reigning  king  or  queen  is 
not  a  Knight,  but  the  Sovereign  of  tne  Most 
Noble  Order.  W.  F.  Pridkaux. 

"Anyone,"  "Everyone"  (9'»»  S.  vii.  205, 
294). — Mr.  Adams  has  always  a  good  reason 
for  his  opinion,  and  everything  he  writes  is 
entitled  to  respect,  but  1  venture  to  think 
that  his  deliverance  upon  this  subject  is  not 
conclusive.  Of  the  three  reasons  he  gives 
the  first  is  too  fanciful,  and  the  second  too 
far-fetched,  to  have  much  weight ;  and  even 
the  third  is,  in  my  judgment,  overbalanced 
by  the  practical  utility  of  the  forms  ad- 
vocated. Mr.  Adams  says  that  in  these 
combinations  "one"  is  not  on  all  fours 
with  "body,''  and  this  is  true,  for  "body" 
taken  separately  is  always  a  noun,  where- 
as "  one "  is  sometimes  an  adjective. 
There  is  therefore  less  need  to  distinguish 
between  "any  body"  and  "anybody**  than 
between  "  any  one  and  "  anyone."  Compare 
the  phrases  "anyone  who  likes,"  "any  one 
particle."  The  first  means  "  any  ];>erson  who 
likes,"  the  second  "any  single  particle." 

C.  C.  B. 

An  American  Invasion  (9'*»  S.  vii.  227, 
293J.— S.  J.  A.  F.  gives  no  instances  of  the 
spelling  theat^  for  theatre  "  some  three  hun- 
dred years  ago,"  quoting  only  *The  Whole 
Art  of  the  Stage,'  1684.  Against  this  I  would 
place  the  spelling  of  the  word  in  the  work 
of  Thomas  Beard,  "  preacher  of  the  word  of 
God  in  the  towne  of  Huntington,"  school- 
master of  Oliver  Cromwell,  entitled  *The 
Theatre  of  God's  Judgements,'  the  edition 
from  a  copv  of  which  1  quote  being  printed 
in  1612  by  Adam  Islip,  London. 

Thos.  Wainwright. 

Did  not  Morley's  *Life  of  Cromwell' and 
Sir  Walter  Besant's  *  East  London '  appear 
in  instalments  in  the  Century  Magazine^  and 
is  not  this  magazine  partly  printed  in 
America?  If  so,  the  Americanisms  might 
very  easily  be  accounted  for. 

John  T.  Page. 

West  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 

First  Earl  of  Hyndford's   Daughters 

(9^^  8.  vii.  249).—*  Kearsley's  Complete  Peer- 

ago/   1794,    states    that   John,   the    aewud 


Beatrice  Drummond,  and  by  her  hmd  three 
sons  and  three  daughters.  The  eldest  of 
the  daughters  was  married  to  John  Cock- 
burn,  or  Ormeston  :  the  second  to  John 
Montgomerv,  of  Qinen  ;  and  the  third  to 
Sir  John  Maxwell,  of  Nether  Pollock,  Bart, 
Lord  Chief  Justice  Clerk  ;  and  aU  had  issue. 
EvERARi)  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Stonehenge  (9"»  S.  vii.  247).  —  Borrow 
seems  to  have  been  familiar  with  this  legend 
(see  '  Laven^ro,'  chap.  Ix.) ;  and  if  we  may 
believe  a  writer  in  Le  Tenqts  for  23  January, 
it  is  still  current  among  certain  classes  of 
country  people  in  England. 

Bekj.  Walker. 

Gravelly  Hill,  Erdington. 

Lay  Canon  (9">  S.  vii.  148,  197,  274).— The 
singing  men  in  Chester  Cathedral,  and  very 
likely  elsewhere,  are  known  as  lay  clerks. 
This  certainly  also  applies  to  Lichfield. 

T.  Uann  Hughes,  M.A. 

Lancaster. 

Author  of  Verses  Wanted  (9'**  S.  vii. 
228,  315).— The  first  are  in  the  translation 
by  Josuah  {nc)  Sylvester  (1503-1618)  of  Du 
Eiartas's  (La  Semaine)  'Devine  Weekes  and 
Workes,'  but  as  I  have  seen  them  they  are 
printed  thus : — 

The  pretty  Lark  climbing  the  Welkin  dear. 
Izaak  Walton  calls  Du  Bartas  the  ""  Divine," 
and  I  think  Southey  has  said  Sylvester  was 
the  best  -  read  poet  in  James  I.'s  reign. 
Perhaps  the  other  verses  will  be  found  there. 
0.  T.  Sherborn. 

Twickenham. 

Disguise  op  Man  as  Woman  (9^»»  S.  vii. 
248)  —See  V Intemiddiairty  xlL  569,  677,  726, 
776,  966;  xlii.  303,  under  the  heading  of 
*  L^Homme  Femme  D^voxW 

F.  E.  R  Pollard-U^rquhart. 

Castle  Pollard,  Westroeath. 

The  well-known  case  of  Boulton  and  Park 
(I  believe  these  are  the  names)  may  be  cited« 
but  the  particulars  are  best  forgotten. 

C.  C.  B. 

Whitgift's  Hospital,  Croydon  (9*^  S.  vL 
341,  383,  402,  423,  479,  513  ;  vii.  178,  256X— I 
am  sorry  Mr.  Jonas  cannot  make  up  his 
mind  to  accept  Cartwright  as  a  sufficient 
authority  for  the  statement  that  he  did  not 
write  the  *  Admonition  to  Parliament'  I 
have  now  only  time  to  add  three  more 
authorities  —  two  in  the  '  Dictionary  of 
National  Biography,'  where,  in  the  article 
OTv  C^btt'wrlght  signed  J.  B.  M.,_2t  is  stated 


age,     uif4,    scares    cnat   Jonn,   Lue    aecorva\oTvv:«btv»'frr\g^t  signeo  «i.  d.  m.,  u  is  « 
baron,  was  created  an  earl  in  1701,  maTr\^\Vi>a»,\»  ^^xi  T\^^  w.^  "^V^xsAa  Wilcox 


»*aviLMAY4.i9oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


359 


the  authors,  and  in  the  article  on  Whitgift 
signed  S.  L.  the  same  statement  is  made. 
Mjr  third  authority  is  Prof.  Henry  Martyn 
Baird,  of  the  University  of  New  York,  who 
in  his  volume  on  Beza,  published  in  1899, 
gives  them  as  authors  ot  the  *  Admonition 
•to  Parliament'  S.  Arnott. 

Ealing. 

Carlyle  on  "mostly  fools"  (9"*  S.  vii.  108). 
— Capt  Crowe  (in  *8ir  Launcelot  Greaves*),  to 
the  remonstrance  of  his  nephew  that  all  the 
world  would  think  him  mad,  made  this 
reply  :  **Mad  !  What  then  ]  I  think  for  my 
pe^t  one-half  of  the  nation  is  mad,  and  the 
other  not  very  sound;  I  don't  see  why  I 
han't  as  good  a  right  to  be  mad  as  anotner 
man."  Chatter  ton  is  credited  with  an  ob- 
nervation  not  unlike  Carlyle  s.  There  is 
another  in  Smollett  ('Ferdinand,  Count 
Fathom  *> ;  and  something  very  similar  may 
be  found,  if  I  recollect  rightly,  in  Aristo- 
phanes. In  this  connexion  it  is  perhaps 
worthy  of  remark  that  the  census  was 
•*  made  up  "  on  1  April,  All  Fools'  Day. 

Thomas  Auld. 

Towns  which  have  changed  their  Sites 
(9^  S.  vii.  206,  273).— I  should  think  that  the 
cases  of  towns  that  have  chansed  their  sites 
referred  to  by  L.  L.  K.  must  oe  almost  in- 
numerable. In  India  alone  there  must  be  at 
least  hundreds  of  such  cases.  The  city  of 
Delhi  alone  has  changed  its  site  twice,  and 
the  ruins  of  its  former  greatness  cover  a  large 
extent  of  the  neighbouring  country.  Among 
many  instances  in  our  own  islands,  that  (S 
Sarum  is  notable.  J.  B.  H. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  Ac. 
Benetidtn  LeUern,  Lotidon,  Country,  aitd  Abroad, 

no-S-lSSl.    Edited  by  Charles  Frederic  Hardy. 

(Dent  ft  Co.) 
In  preneDting  us  with  a  series  of  letters  by  "  a  set 
of  persons  who  were  all  more  or  less  obscure  in 
their  day,  and  who  have  not  become  famous  by  the 
snbseunent  lapse  of  a  centurjr  or  thereabouts," 
Mr.  Hardy  has  been  unduly  reticent  in  supplying 
information.  Benenden,  in  Kent,  is  known  from 
its  proximity  to  Hemsted  Park  and  Cranbrook, 
and  some  of  its  residents  of  whom  we  hear  in  the 
book,  as  the  Norrises  and  the  Gybbons  or  Gibbons, 
have  a  certain  amount  of  position.  Nothing  is, 
however,  told  us  of  the  letters  now  published— 
where  or  in  whose  i)08session  are  the  orisinals, 
and  what  percentage  of  them  is  publishea.  So 
chary  of  information  has  the  editor  been,  that  we 
wa«  for  a  time  disposed  to  believe  the  letters  an 
ia^eiiioius  foiipery,  and  as  we  read  looked  out  for 
endenoe  in  support  of  this  view.  They  are, 
however,  genaine  enough ;  introduce  us  to  some 


interesting  individualities,  furnish  us  with  inter- 
esting glimpses  into  domestic  interiors,  and  have 
even  some  historical  value.  The  contribution  by 
R.  W.  Cox  has  a  certain  Pepys-like  quality,  thougn 
Mr.  Hardy  has  felt  bound  to  excise  some  of  the 
naivetes  or  crudities  of  speech  which  tend  to 
strengthen  the  idea  of  resemblance.  Against  this 
we  do  not  protest,  the  less  so  as  the  sense  of  the 
few  suppressed  passages  can  be  reached  without 
much  intellectual  surmise.  We  do  protest,  how- 
ever, against  a  passage  such  as  tne  following: 
*'Sonie  passages  in  his  letters  —  indeed,  one  entire 
e))i8tle,  which  is  quite  unfit  for  publication— show 
how  deeply  he  had  imbibed  tne  spirit  of  that 
peculiar  Kind  of  gross  ribaldry  which  disfigures 
Shakespeare."  This  is  an  unjust  arraignment. 
Compared  with  his  fellows,  Shakespeare  is  cleanly : 
compared  with  his  successors,  he  is  a  model  of 
decency.  The  things  which  Mr.  Hardy  indicts  as 
gross  ribaldry  were  not  such  to  Elizabeth  and  the 
ladies  of  her  Court,  and  we  have  not  to  apply  to 
past  ages  our  own  squeamishness  concerning  the 
outside  of  a  platter  which  within  hides  as  much 
impurity  as  ever.  Like  Pepys,  too,  Cox  supplies 
much  information  concerning  the  stage,  to  our 
knowledge  of  which  the  volume  is  a  distinct  con- 
tribution. We  have  not  verified  his  allusions,  Mr. 
Hardy  having  done  that  himself  by  aid  of  the 
generally  trustworthy  compilation  of  Genest. 

In  reading  this,  as  in  perusing  similar  works,  we 
are  struck  with  the  little  influence  over  English 
society  exercised  by  the  terrible  tragedy  being 
enacted  in  France.  William  Ward,  who  is  prac- 
tically the  central  figure,  had  in  his  later  life  to 
take  refuge  in  France,  and  experienced  something 
worse  than  mere  inconvenience  from  the  persecuting 

1M)licy  towards  Englishmen  adopted  by  Napoleon. 
Ln  Valenciennes  he  died  at  the  great  age  of  ninety- 
three  years,  and  with  his  death  the  book  conies  to 
an  end.  In  his  early  life  he  was  a  ])artisan  of  the 
French  Revolution.  It  is  curious  to  find  this 
Radical,  who  for  more  than  the  allotted  span  of 
life  had  lived  in  a  Kentish  village,  having  to  cross 
the  seas  and  obtain  a  personal  experience  of  the 
working  of  institutions  which  had  won  his  abstract 
admiration.  Some  contrasts  between  the  acting  of 
Garrick  and  that  of  Spranger  Barry,  supplied  by  Cox, 
seem  satisfactory  and  just.  The  letters  have  much 
interest,  and  their  contents  throw  light  upon  many 
obscure  x)eriods  in  the  times  of  the  Georges.  They 
may  be  read,  as  we  have  tested,  with  constant 
interest,  and  form  an  agreeable  addition  to  a  class 
of  work  in  which  in  England  we  are  not  over-rich— 
correspondence  sufficiently  continuous  almost  to  do 
duty  for  memoirs.  A  facsimile  of  Ward's  hand- 
writing, neat  enough  for  eoi)i)erplate,  serves  as  a 
frontispiece. 


77i^  Soi'iaJ  [.if*  of  th   Hthreu's.    By  Rev.  Edward 

Day.  (Nimmo. ) 
When  the  first  volume  of  this  valuable  **  Semitic 
Series  "  api)eared  last  year  we  were  able  to  give  it  a 
cordial  welcome.  Coming  from  the  capable  hands 
of  an  oriudnal  researcher  like  Prof.  Sayce,  it  8]K>ku 
with  authority  on  the  marvels  of  Babylonian  dis- 
covery. Wo  ought  not  to  complain,  jiterhaps,  if  the 
second  issue  of  Uw  series  hardly  attains  to  the  same 
high  level.  Mr.  Day,  whose  name  is  new  to  us  as  a 
writer  in  this  branrli  of  sriem^e,  is  no  doubt  a  care- 
ful compiler  of  results  already  obtained.  He  K*». 
acquainted  himself  dvU\s&\\W>|  >n\\>r.  »J\  \X«.\.  >ikv^ 
most  recent  dictiouacioft  oi  xXi^'ftT^Aa— «Q.^>3«iR5^  *8t» 


360 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [^  «.  vil  May  4,  iwi. 


many— hnvo  said  on  Hebrew  life  »nd  cnslionis ;  but 
wo  miw  the  crefttive  faculty,  the  ichol&rly  imtinct, 
which  can  make  what  would  othcrwitse  be  a  dull 
book  one  of  living  interest.  He  dividos  hia  volume 
into  two  partH— the  HDcial  life  of  the  early  Hebrews, 
t:Alled  for  ahortnesa  *  The  Time  of  the  Judges/  and 
that  in  '  The  Time  of  the  Monarchy  '—traeiug  under 
each  tho  i^fiuence  of  the  clau,  the  family,  and  the 
etivirouTtient  upon  the  maunerB,  moraiSf  aud  law^  of 
the  Chosen  People-  ijome  of  Mr.  Day'a  obifer  dicia 
we  cannot  quite  away  with.  We  cannot  believe 
that ''  the  modern  pic-nie  U  undoubtedly  [11  a  sur* 
vival  of  aueh  primitive  gatherinEs"  aa  the  old 
aaorificifil  feast  m  honour  of  Ynhveh,  **  juat  as  the 
New  England  donation -party  ^  [whatever  that  may 
be]  ia  a  survival  o!  &  later  custom »  that  of  sending 
A  jiortion  of  the  victim  slain  to  the  legally  con- 
atitnt^^d  priest-"  This  at  all  evente,  we  venture  to 
think,  is  a  disco  very  of  Mr.  Day's  own.  Again,  it 
is  quito  possible  to  explain  the  npMt  of  Yahveh  aa 
an  overpowerinjz  influence  urging  a  man  U>  strange 
action  or  enterprise,  as  in  the  case  of  Samaoo, 
without  raihng  it  **a  cis»wmtV  power."  It  is  not 
voiy  illuminating  lo  be  told  that  in  times  of  sick- 
ne^  *'  ordinarily,  when  cireumatances  allowed  of  it, 
nnraes  were  employ^.  Games  were  played  by  the 
children,  and  pet  animals  were  common.  The  love 
of  the  husband  and  father  was  not  unoonfessed/' 
and  so  on.  Surely  nobody  e%^er  doubted  that  the 
Hebrews  were  human. 

That  Mr.  Day  is  an  American  writing  for  Ame- 
ricana we  are  not  allowed  to  forget  for  long ;  r.g.y 
this  rendering :  '"  He  taketh  the  poor  from  the  rifg- 
dtintp  and  moketh  him  to  ait  among  the  nobles/' 
This  i»{  verily  the  Psalter  down  to  date  1  Indeed, 
the  writer  makes  no  effort  to  riae  above  the  alip* 
fihod  of  the  tramcan  "We  wonder,"  be  says, 
'^  whether  the  sick  and  famiahed  man  survived  the 
two  raisin  cakes  which  were /^fi  him"  Can  we 
feed  a  man  a  cake  ?  That  much  is  to  be  desired  in 
the  matter  of  style  will  appear  from  the  unfortunate 
sentence  with  which  the  book  begins— enough  to 
ileter  any  wavering  reader:  "The  desi Ration  of 
the  period  of  Hebrew  life  which  is  considered  in 
\  his  part  of  the  present  work  is  not  oa  easy  as  it  at 
lirst  thought  seema,  for  the  term  here  employed^ 
the  usual  one,  is  misleading,  though  perhaps  not 
ika  misleading  to  many  as  some  other  might  be ''  i 

Xctt^^a  on  Dan  and  S^'orpio  and  Saf/iifOrrittt.      By 

J^  M.  Lawrence-  (Banks  k  ^onO 
WfL£K  we  took  up  thja  brochurf  on  Biblical  aatro- 
logy  we  aus|ieeted  we  should  soon  come  on  the 
Druids,  and  Anglo- Israelites^  and  Ur,  Cnmming. 
We  were  not  mistaken.  But  we  felt  tliat  we  were 
too  inveterately  pre]  udiced  to  give  it  a  fair  criticism, 
eat^cially  when  our  eye  fell  on  the  equation  of 
SiaKons  with  **  Isaac's  aona." 

Jmtrtiol  of  tht    Anihropoioffuial    Iti^iituit.     New 

Seriea.   "VoL  HI. 

A  HPEUIALLY  in  teres  tin|[  volume  of  the  Journal  of 

tht  Anikntpoiogi€al  Inffitufe  o|)ena  with  the  r©i>ort 

of  the  annual  meeting  and  with  the  addreas  of  the 

President,  Mr,  U,  H.  Read,  F.S.A.    Following  this 

comes  a  very  valuable  article  by  Mr.  H.  M.  Chad- 

wick.  M.A.,  on  *The  Oak  and  the  Thunder  (Jod.^ 

I'he  iiistoricul  ]»ortion  of  thia  deah  at  some  length 

with  the  wurfihip  of  the  thnnder  god  among  the 

Northern  j^aoplea,  and  with  the  (juostion  of  tree 

EABctuAriGB   in    8c&ndinAvia,  Germany,  «nd  elae- 

whete*     AMOoiAtion   between   tbe  Oftk   uid  tYi^ 


thunder  god  prevailed  among  the  FmssUni,  Ger* 
mans,  Kelts,  Romans,  and  Greeks.  Mr.  Fraser's 
theory  that  the  oak  was  not  merely  the  ssnnbol  or 

habitation  of  the  god,  but  was  itsetf  the  object  of 
worship,  is  not  fully  accepted^  Mr.  Chad  wick  hold- 
ing that  the  thunder  god  was  suptKiaed  to  inhabit 
the  oak  because  it  bad  formerly  been  the  dweUing- 
place  of  hi  a  worshippers.  Mr.  A.  L.  Lewis  has  an 
interesting  connnunicatiou  on  *  The  Stone  Circles  of 
fScojlund,  and  Dn  Kingston  an  imijortant  contri- 
bution on  the  contents  of  caves  near  KnTsna,  in 
8outh  Africa.  Other  essays,  each  of  which  merits 
special  notice,  are  included  in  a  work  with  which 
many  of  our  re;aders  have  long  been  familiar.  T%« 
aocietv  is  doinif  noble  sei-vice,  being  worthily  sup- 
ported in  so  doing  by  the  aid  of  a  few  n»en  of  means. 
Thoroughly  to  carry  out  its  schemes  requires  so 
accession  of  members.  lU  special  need  is  for  work- 
ing Fellows,  who  will  carry  out  in  diiTerent  pftrts  of 
the  world  the  kind  of  exploration  for  the  under- 
taking and  due  conduct  of  which  it  was  established. 
Its  home  is  at  S,  Hanover  Square,  W.,  where  those 
interested  in  anthropological  pursuits  may  com- 
municate w^ith  Mr.  J.  L.  Myres,  the  secretary,  or 
Mr.  A.  L.  Lewis,  the  treasurer. 


MKaHRg.  Brll  will  publish  immediately  a  new 
and  enlarged  edition  of  Prof.  Kuno  Francke's  '  His- 
tory of  German  Literature/  which  lirst  appeared  is 
New  York  under  the  title  of  *  Social  Forces  in  (ier- 
man  Literaturo,'  and  is  now  published  in  England 
for  the  first  time.  They  also  announce  English 
editions  of  Prof.  T,  K.  Lounsbury's  *  History  of 
the  English  Language*  and  Mr.  H.  S.  Panoosst'i 
*  Introduction  to  English  Literature,'  both  of  whidi 
aro  text- books  in  the  United  Btates. 


90tt£fi  tcr  CiFirjriirim^fiiti. 

Wt  mMM  a^  wp€ci^  aUciaifm  ta  ikt  fiMcmm$ 
notku:— 

Ok  all  communications  must  be  written  ihensiM 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  neceasarily  for  pub- 
Lieation,  but  as  a  gu»rantoe  of  good  faith. 
We  cannot  undertake  to  answer  4|ueries  privatoly> 
To  secure  insertion  of  communications  cocre- 
spondents  must  obaerve  the  following  roles.  Ui 
e&ch  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  sepsisK 
alip  of  paper,  with  the  eignature  of  the  writer  MW 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  snvftf' 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previosi 
entnes  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requeited  to 
put  in  itaren theses,  immediately  after  the  vtM^ 
neadingt  the  series,  vultime,  and  page  or  ptgtt  ts 
which  they  refer.  Gorrespondents  who  repei^ 
queries  are  requested  to  head  t^e  second  ooB* 
munication  **  Duplicate.^- 

F.  J,  P.,  Boston,  Mass.  (**  Straight  off,"  «te» 
f).  239)-— We  think  this  phrase  is  aathonsod  is 
England,  but  are  open  to  correction.  I 

NQTiCE. 
Editorial  Oommumcfttloni  should  be  addrsswdW 
^*  I'hu  Editor  of  '  Kotes  and  QnetieB '  ^ — Advertiw- 
menu;  and  Business  Lett'ers  to  '*  The  PubUshsr"" 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Laiie»E.& 
We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  telV* 
oommunications  which,  for  any  re«Lsou,  we  dk>  Mt 
^"ytmXi  \  ^1^4  \o  this  rule  we  oao  make  no  i 


9^  B.  VIL  May  4. 1901.)         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


NBW8VBNDOR8'      BBNBVOLBNT     aod 
PttOYIOBNT  INSTITUTION. 
Fomndcdias. 
Foadt  exceed  atOOM. 
usee :  Memorial  HeU  ItaUdlace,  16.  VUriBirdoB  Street.  Loodoa,  B.C. 


Tke  Biffht  Uoa.  the  BAKL  of  K08BBBRY.  K.O. 


The  Ulf  kt  Hob.  the  LO&D  OLBNBSK. 

Sir  W.  J.  RICHMOND  OOTTON,  J  P.  (Cbamberlala  of  Loadoa). 

Treasarer : 

The  LONDON  aad  WBHTMINSTBK  BANK.  LIMITBD. 

317.  Stfaad.  W.C. 

Tnuteea  (Ba-Oflleio  Members  of  Committee) : 

CHABLBS  BBN&Y  WALTBR.  Beq. 

HORACB  BBOOKS  MABSHALL,  Beq.,  M.A.  J.l*.  D.L. 

ALVHBD  HBN&Y  KANOB,  Beq.  (Chairmaa  of  Committee) 

CHABLK8  AWDBY.  Beq.,  M.A. 

OWKTB.—Tlila  laeatation  wae  cetablUhed  la  1830  la  the  City  of 


.  aader  the  Freeideney  of  the  late  Aldenaaa  Uarmer.   for 

IpaallBff  Faaeioae  ead  Tempoiary  Aaeistaaee  to  prtaelpali  aad 
BBiteiuMe  eanKed  ea  Teadon  of  aewepapert. 

A  Doaittoa  of  Tea  Oalacae  coaeUtatee  a  YIee-Preeldeat  aad  glTes 
three  v«tee  lor  life  at  ell  eleetloai.  Baeh  donatloa  of  Three  OalDeae 
Riveo  a  Toie  at  all  electioas  for  life.  Bverr  Aaaaal  Sabecriber  li 
enttled  to  oae  TOte  at  ell  eleotioae  la  reepect  of  each  Pi  re  ShUllagi  so 
peM. 

XBMRBBBHIP.-BTery  aua  aad  womaa  throvffhoat  the  Ualted 
KlBffdom,  whether  paUieher.  wholeeeler,  retailer,  employer  or  em- 
ployed. Is  eatitled  to  beeome  a  member  of  this  loetitatioa.  aad  enjoy 
lie  beaeMe  apea  paymeot  of  VIto  ShlUlac*  aaaully  or  Three  Oaiaeas 
ler  Life,  prorlded  that  he  or  the  U  eagaced  la  the  mIo  of  aewepapera. 

The  prtadpal  featareo  of  the  Balee  goTeraiait  elecUoa  to  all  Veaaioae 
■re.  that  eaeaeaadleate  shall  have  beea  (1)  a  member  of  the  lastttatloa 

. ^. —  -ippUcatloa;  (J»  not  lose  thaa 

sale  of  aewepapera  for  at  least 

KBUV.-Tempoiary  reUef  is  fivea  la  cases  of  dlstreae,  aot  oaly 
le  Meaitieis  oi  the  lasUtatioa.  hot  to  aewsveadora  or  their  servaau 
who  aaay  he  rceemmeaded  f^r  aaeistaaee  by  Membera  of  the  lastttotioa. 
laaalry  le  asade  la  each  eaaee  by  Ylsitlaff  Oommitteee.  and  relief  la 
awariad  la  aeeordaaee  with  the  mertte  aad  reqalremeate  of  each  case 
W.  WIIJLIB  JOMBS,  Seereiary. 


iny-Bvayeanofaffe;  (3)eam«dia 


THB    AUTHOR'^     HAIRLESS     PAPBR-PAD. 

X    (The  LBAOBMHALL  PJIB88.  Lid..  Pabllahera  aad  Pnatera, 
M.  LaadoahaU  atraei.  Loadoa,  B.C.; 
Oaandas  halrlsaa  paper,  otot  wtaieh   the   pea   slips  with    perfeec 
ftaeaei     Siapeaee  saeh.   Is.  per  doaea.  ralea  or  plala.    ^ew  Poefcet 
81aa«  la.  par  doaea,  raied  or  plaia. 

-— leta  ahoaid  aote  that  The  LsadeahaU  Preea,  Lu..  eaaaoi  be 
rthto  tor  the  less  of  MSB.  by  Are  or  otberwiae.    Difplici 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFPBE— SUGAR— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.G. 


KKWBFFIB  WATBB8  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  latematioaal 
Bzhibitioa.  Faria.  1900. 

8CHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesbdda. 

TUB8K  WATBRb  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potaas,  Lithia, 
Lemonmde,  Tonic-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  kCt  kc)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 


/   BNGUSH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATBR:— 
{8CHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN, 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS. 

ScHWSFPBS,  vm,  londoh,  Malvbrn, 
mi  imam,  utxbvool,  brutol,  sydnbt,  aad  mblbovbnb. 


•} 


NOTBS  AND  QUBRIBS.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 
to  NOTBS  AMD  QUBRIBS  free  by  poet  U  lOt.  94.  for  Six  Moaths } 
or  a)«.  W.  forTwelre  Moaths.  lacladlaff  the  Volame  ladez.-JOHN  C. 
FRANCIS,  2fM€9  mtd  Qmriu  Offloe,  Bream's  BaUdiaga,  Chaaoery  Laae. 

nPHK    CORONATION    of    QUKKN    VICTORIA. 

FOR  BALB,  a  Copy  of  the  SUN.  Seeoad  BdiUoa.  Jaae  ».  1838. 
priated  la  Gold,  eoatalalng  a  Pall  Aocouot  of  the  Qaeea's  Coroaatlon 
aad  a  Deserlptioa  of  the  State  Carrtaxea  of  Marshal  Soait  aad  the 
other  Ambassadors  — OfEBrs  requested  lo  Z..  Atheavam  Press.  Bream's 
Baildlacs.  Chaacenr  Laae.  B.C. 


ENGLISH  MIDDLB-CLASS  FAMILlKb, 
A.D.  lfifiO-1800. -Collector  of  Pedlfrees  and  Pedigree  Bvideace 
iarites  laqalrles.— Address  RBOOKD  AOBNT,  AO.  Beecroft  Road, 
Breckley,  Loadoa,  8.B. 

BOOKS,  MSS.,  &c.-Me88r8.  H.  U.  HODGSON  & 
CO.,  Aaetloaeers  of  Books  aad  Literary  Property  of  every 
deserlptioa.  Libraries  aad  smaller  Ooneetioaa  earetally  UMalofoed 
aad  promptly  oSlBred  for  Sale.  Facktajt  aad  RemoTal  anaoged  for. 
Valaatioas  made  for  Probate  or  other  purposes.  AacUoa  Rooms,  I1&, 
Chaaeery  Laae  (Fleet  Street  ead ).    Beiablished  180B. 

OOKS.— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    B00KB~7up- 

plled,  ao  matter  oa  what  Sabjeet.  AekaowledKeo  tb«  world  orrr 
aa  the  musi  •sport  H^Mafladers  vatant.  Please  tiaie  waau.— AAJLBR'b 
Oreat  Bowashop,  14-16.  Joha  Bright  Street,  Bjrmiagham. 

AGBNCY  FOR  AMBKICAN  BOOKS. 

PUTNAM'S  SONS,   PUBLISHBRS   and 

BOOKSB  i.t.aim 

of  37  aad  29,  West  83rd  Street,  New  York,  aad  24,  BBUFOKD  STRBBT, 
LONDON,  W.C.  desire  to  eaU  the  atteaUoa  of  the  UBADINO 
PUBLIC  to  the  exeelloac  faciliUei  preeeaiod  by  their  Breach  House  ia 
Loadoa  for  fllliag,  oa  the  aiost  laToarabie  urms,  ofdera  for  their 
owa  STANDARD  PUBLICATIONS,  aad  for  ALL  AMBRICAN 
BOOBS. 

Catalogaea  seat  oa  appUeatioa. 

nULLBTON'S    H  BR  A  LdYc"  O  FpTc^B 

^^  lor  Seaiehes  aad  Aatheatie  laf  ormatioa  respectiag 

ARMORIAL   BBARINGS   AND  FAMILY    DBSCBNT8, 

with  a  Separate  Departmeat  for  the  Artistic  Productioa  of 

HBRALDIC  PAINTING  AND  BNGRAVING. 

Book-Platea.  Seala,  lUee,  Slgaet  Blaga.  LiTory  Battoos.  Crested  Note- 

Paper,  Visitiag  aad  laritatioa  Carda,  *o. 


G. 


83.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Oreea  Park). 


THB  DB  LA  MORB  PRB8S. 

PRBPARINO   for  PUBLICATION,  a  New  Work  of  great  ArtisUc, 

Uistorical,  Aatiquariaa,  aad  Topographical  latereac 

MONASTIC    SBALU    of    the    THiKTBBNIH 
CBNTURY.    With  the  BagUshOfliee  for  their  Beceptioa. 
fiO  Full-Page  Plates  la  CoUotype.    With  Historical  latrodactloa  aad 
DesenptiTo  Notee  by 
GALB  PBDRICK,  F.R.lilst  Soc 
Preeeated  ia  Old-Fhoed  Type,  boaad  la  parehmeat.  aad  gilt  lettered. 
Price  to  Subscribers  before  pubUoatloa.  2U.  aet,  after  which  it  will  be 
raised  to  36«. 
Specimea  Plate  aad  Proapeetaa  tree. 
Address;   62,  High  Holboia,  Loadoa,  W.C. 


ATHBNJfiUM  PRESS.— JOHN  KDWAKD 
FRANCIS,  Priater  of  the  Atlmtmum.  Mmm  and  QMehts.  Jtc..  is 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  BSTIMATBS  for  aU  klada  of  BOOK,  NBWK, 
aad  PBRIODICAL  PRINTING.— IS.  Bream's  Balldiags,  Chaaeery 
Laae.  BC. 


EXCHANGB  (or  would  SUB-LBT)  for  TURBB 
MONTHS,  a  HOUSB  la  Soath-West  Sabarb  (»l.  reatal)  for  a 
Realdeaoe  ia  the  Coaatry,  or  Seaside.— Apply  F..  Atheavam  Press. 
Rream's  BaUdiags,  B.C. 

S"  TICKPH AST  "Taste    is   heaps   better  than 
Gum  for  stiekiag  ia  Scraps.  Joialag  Papers.  *e.   W.  aad  1j.  with 
stroag,  Bsetal  Brash  (aot  a  Toy >.   Sead  two  txarnv^  Vk  oos^w  vommuc^ 
lor  a  sample  Bottle.  laelaAiai  l&rvtia.    IfasMirs*  ^^«tt  ^^baI  v^mvtv^ 
LaadmihallitN«(,m.Q.  Oti^AVasaMma.  ftta^ijham ^aaaga ^tc^afcak. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       (9»&vil  Mat  4.1m. 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBFARTUXMT 

THE  lOUOWDie 

"'^V^^st^''         LIBRARY  COPIES        ^'Sgg,%J?,SSf^- 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

Until  further  notice  :— 
MAQAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTBU  DATE. 

ru  AXMVM  ruAnn 

Argoty    ... 7  6  MaomilUn't      „  1  i 

Blaokwood't     13  0  MonUily  Beview       ...       .» ^.  16  0 

Oentory 10  6  NftUonal  Beview        „.       ...  U  e 

Contemporftry  Beview        16  0  Nlneteentli  Century » 16  0 

Oomhilf 7  6  PaUlUIl          8  6 

BngUah  lUuatnited 5  0  Bevue  dee  Deux  Mondet 30  0 

Fortnightly  Beview 16  0  Scribner**          7  f 

Harper^* 9  0  Temple  Bar      7  6 

Longman's       5  0 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
Udinburgb       „ 7    6 1  Quarterly  ^ '   ...    7  8 

The  terms  will  be  It,  M.  per  annum  less  to  Sabscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalls  to 
have  the  MagaslDes  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  tbao 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for. 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSGRIPTIONS  MAT  COMMENCE  AT  ANT  DATE. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.      H.      SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  Railway  Bookstallt,  to  whieh  places  they  will  he  forwarded  carriage  free. 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  i^"**^  **?* 

CBNTUBY  MAQAZIBB.  The.    Vol.  M      S   6   ..  :»  < 

ATALANTA  MAOAZINB.    Vol.  6     8   U   ».  3  « 

LONDON  SOCIETY,    a  voU.  for  1891         15   0   ...  3  < 

2  voU.  for  ia03         16   0   ...  3  * 

OASSBLL'S  MAGAZINK.    VoL  for  December,  1808,  to  May,  1899.    Illuftrated ...  i  < 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       ^*l 

Vol.  for  December,  1899,  to  May,  1900          .~  '  * 

OHAMBBBS'S  JOUBNAL  of  FOPULAB  LITBBATUBB,  SCIBNCB.  and  ABTS.    Vol.  for  1892 9   0   .»  3  « 

Vol.  for  1895 9  0  .«  3  « 

Vol.  for  1897 9  0  ...  3  • 

Vol.  for  1898 9  0  .-  3  « 

Vol.  for  1899 9  0  ...  3  • 

QUIVBB  VOLUMB.    November,  1897,  to  April,  1898 ^  *  i 

November,  1898,  to  April,  1899 -  3  • 

May  to  October.  1899          .-  3  # 

0000  WOBDS.    VoU.  for  1888, 1892, 1894, 1895.  1897,  and  1898        7    6   ...  3  « 

SUNDAY  MAGAZINB.    Volt,  for  1889, 1892, 1884. 1895,  and  1898 9   0  ..  3  « 


W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186.  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Railway  BookttalU,  to  which  plaoee  Subtoriben  can  be  tnuMferred.  tn&  of  charge. 

Proepeetut  of  Jcmu.  4«..  Mat  fr§e  upon  appUeaUon  to  180,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

JOHN  a  nLMJKOM  afc  kwam't Biaittim  OaiiHwn  ^aafca^VV^  iKiili, lUn  i^VKL 


NOTES   AND    QTJEKIES: 

%  SUMnm  of  Inurfommnntation 


lOB 


LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


**WheB  found,  make  a  note  of."~GAPTAiN  Cuttlb. 

No>  176.  KSg]  Satubday,  May  11,  1901.  { J^l?!^:::^. 

SOTHERAN'S   PRICE  CURRENT  OF  LITERATURE 

(MONTHLY  CATALOGUE  OF  FRESH  PURCHASES  IN  SECOND-HAND  BOOKS) 
No.  608,  JUST  PUBLISHED  for  MAY,  includes 

A  COLLBCTION  of  BOOKS  on  the  80GIBTY  of  JESUS  and  the  ROMAN  GONTEOVERSY. 

A  Copy  post  free  on  application  ;  also 

CATALOGUE  of  NEWLY  BOUND  BOOKS  for  the  LIBRARY  or  PRESENTATION ; 

CATALOGUE  of  SPORTING  BOOKS,  FIRST  EDITIONS,  and  AUTOGRAPHS; 

CATALOGUE  of  MESSRS.  SOTHERAN'S  OWN  PUBLICATIONS. 

HENRY    SOTHERAN    &    CO., 

Booksellers,  Publishers,  and  Bookbinders; 
General  Agents  for  Bookbuyers  at  Home  and  Abroad. 

LIBBARIES  AND  BOOKS,  ENGRAVINGS,  MANUSGBIFTS, 
AND  AUTOGBAFH  LETTERS 

BOUGHT,  VALUED  FOR  PROBATE,  or  ARRANGED  AND  CATALOGUED. 

They  are  at  all  times  prepared  to  Inspect,  Value,  and  Purchase  Librabies  or  smaller  CoUections 
H  Books,  also  Engravings  and  Autographs,  either  in  Town  or  Country,  for  their  full  Cash  value,  with 
^«mo▼al  without  trouble  or  expense ;  or  to  report  on  Libraries  with  a  view  to  their  improvement  and 
dialoguing,  

140,  STRAND,  W.C.  (near  Waterloo  Bridge); 
37,  PICCADILLY,  W.  (opposite  St.  James's  Church). 

Telegraphic  Address:  Bookmbn,  Lonboh.  Codes:  Unicode  «.\id  k^d. 

Founded  in  Tower  Street,  City,  IdlG. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9-^8.viLMAYn,i9oi. 


NEWSVEND0R8*      BENEVOLENT     and 
PROVIDBNT  IN8TITUT10M. 
Foimded  1899. 
Funds  exceed  21,Q0CU. 
Offloe  :  Memorial  HaU  BnUdlnffi,  16.  Farrliiffdon  Street,  London,  B.C. 
Patron: 
The  RiRbt  Hon.  the  BA.RL  of  R08BBBKY,  ILO. 
President* : 
The  Right  Hon.  the  LOliD  OLBMB8K. 
Sir  W.  i.  HICUM ONU  COTTON,  J.P.  (Chamberlain  of  London). 
Treasorer: 
The  LONDON  and  WESTMINSTER  BANK,  LIMITEU. 
S17,  Strand.  W.C. 
Trustees  (Bz-offldo  Members  of  Committee) : 
CHARLES  HBNRY  WALTER.  Esq. 
HORACE  BROOKS  BCARSUALL,  Bsq.,  M.A.  J.P.  D.L. 
ALFRED  HENRY  HANCE,  Esq.  (Chairman  of  Committee). 
CHARLES  AWDRY.  Stq.,  MA. 
OBJBCTS.—ThU  Institution  was  established  in  1830  in  the  City  of 
London,  under  the  Presidency  of  the   late  Alderman   Harmer,   for 
Kranting   Pensions   and   Temponur    Assistance   to    principals   and 
asaistaats  engaired  as  Tenders  of  newspapers. 

A  Donation  of  Tea  Guineas  constitutes  a  Vice-President  and  glTes 
three  rotes  for  life  at  all  elections.    Each  donation  of  Three  Guineas 


three  rotes  for  life  at  all  elections. 

fflres  a  rote  at  all  elections  for  liie.     isrery  Annual  HnDscnoer  u 

entitled  to  one  rote  at  all  elections  in  respect  oi  each  Fire  Shillings  so 


MEMBERSHIP. -Ererr  man  and  woman  throughout  the  United 
Kingdom,  whether  publisher,  wholesaler,  retailer,  employer  or  em- 
ployed, is  entitled  to  become  a  member  of  this  Institution,  and  enjoy 
U*  Seneflts  upon  payment  of  Fire  Shillings  annually  or  Three  Guineas 
for  Life,  prorided  that  he  or  she  is  engaged  in  the  sale  of  newspapers. 

The  principal  features  of  the  Rules  goreming  election  to  all  Pensions 
are,  that  each  candidate  shall  hare  been  (1)  a  member  of  the  Institution 
tor  not  lees  than  ten  years  preceding  application ;  (2)  not  less  than 
fifty-Are  years  of  age ;  (3)  enimred  in  the  sale  of  newspapers  for  at  least 
ten  years. 

RELIEF.— Temporary  relief  is  giren  in  cases  of  distress,  not  only 
to  Members  of  the  Institution,  but  to  newsrendors  or  their  serranu 
who  may  be  recommended  for  assistance  by  Members  of  the  Institution.  • 
Inquiry  is  made  la  such  esses  by  Visiting  Committees,  and  relief  is 
awarded  in  accordance  with  the  merits  and  requiremenu  of  each  case. 
W.  WII^IE  JONES,  Secretary. 

THE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER- PAD. 
(The  LBADBNHALL  PRESS.  Ltd..  Publishers  and  Printers. 
30.  Irsartnnhsll  Street,  London,  B.O.i 
Contains  hairless  paper,  orer  which   the   pen   sUps  with    perfect 
freedom.    Sixpence  eaeh.    3«.  per  dosen.  ruled  or  plain.    New  Pocket 
Sise.  8«.  per  dosen,  ruled  or  plain. 

Antbort  should  note  that  The  Leadenhall  Press,  Ltd..  cannot  be 
rsspooslMe  tor  the  less  of  MSS.  by  fire  or  otherwise.  Duplicate  copies 
should  be  retained. 

WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— SDGAK— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 

SCHWEPPBS  WATERS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  Intematlonal 
ExhlMUon,  Parts,  UOO. 

SGHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda 

THESE  WATERS  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,  &c.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 

/  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:— 
<  SGHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS. 

ScHWEPPBB,  LTD.,  LONDON,  MaLVERN, 

OLABQOW,  LIVRRFOOL,  BBUTOL,  SYDNEY,  UA  MXLBOMttH^ 


) 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 
^  'S.NOTESakd  QUERIES  tree  by  poet  U10..M.  for  six  Menthss 
^^^SfJ^^^^"^  Months.  Inelndlnff  the  VolnoM  Indn.-^OUM  C 
FRAMCIS,  IfoUs  and  QntritM  Offiee,  Kwln's  BaUdiaffs,  CkBMery  Laae. 

^HE    CORONATION    of    QUEEN    VICTORIA 

FOB.  SALE,  a  Oopr  of  the  SUN.  Second  Edition  Jue  SB.  lOL 
printed  in  Gold,  contalalnf  a  FnU  Aoeonat  ci  tke  Qnen's  rnnwstlsa 
and  a  DMeription  of  the  State  Oamages  of  Marshal  8mlt  and  tie 

sasiis!Tg:as;yi2?,?E'S""^  ^  ^'  ^'^"'~"  ^~' '~'' 

BOOKS,  MSS..  fcc-Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 
A  ^  9?-  AncUoneers  of  Books  and  Utenuy  Prqpwtj  of  ewij 
desotlption.  Libraries  and  snudler  OoUectlona  crofSlT  thMleiaed 
and  promptly  oflhred  for  Sale.  Faefclair  and  Bemoml  anaaged'isr. 
VUnattons  nude  for  Probate  or  other  porpoeea.  AMiiM  Boenu,  114 
Chancery  Lane  (fleet  Street  end).    EstablialiedlSOQ.  —«-»—» 

BOOKS— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS   mip. 
pUed,  no  matter  on  what  Snbject.    Aeknowledfed  the  worM  evsr 

as  the  most  sspert  Bookflnders  extant.    Please  state  «raata BAKEBI 

Great  Bookshop.  U-IS,  John  Briffht  Street.  BlrainghMn. 

/JULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICX 

^^  for  Searches  and  AuthenUe  Information  reepectiaf 

A&MOBIAL   BEABINOS   AND   FAMILY    DEOCIVTB, 

with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artiatie  Prodnelion  of 

HE&ALDIO  PAINTING  AND  BNO&AYINO. 

Book-Plates.  Seals,  Dies.  SIsaet  Rings.  UtvrrBttteiu,  Cmtad  MM- 

Paper,  Viaitiaff  and  InTitntton  cnrda.  Ike. 

92,  PIOCADILLY,  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Park). 


M* 


THE  DE  LA  MORE  PRESS. 
PREPARING  for  PUBLICATION,  a  New  Work  of  great  ArtWk, 
Historical,  Antiqnarian,  and  Topognphlenl  InteiesL 

ONASTIC    SEALS    of    the    TfllRTEKNTH 

CENTURY.    With  the  English  Offloe  for  their  Reception. 
fiO  Foil-Page  Plates  in  CoUotype.    With  Historical  Introdactios  ssi 
DeeeripaTe  Notes  by 
GALE  PEDRICK.  F.RHlstSoc 
Presented  in  Old-Iteed  Type,  bennd  in  parchment,  aad  gitt  leocisi 
Price  to  Subscribers  before  pnbUcaUon,  2U.  net.  after  which  tt  will  ke 
raised  to  2Ss. 
Specimen  Plate  and  Ptoepeetos  free. 
Address;    S3,  High   Holboni,   London,  W.C. 

NOW  READY,  SECOND  EDITION,  RBV18BD  and  AUOMERTBD^ 
pilee  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  B.A.  F.R.A.8. 
O.  8T0NEMAN.  89.  WarwJeJL  Lane.  E.C.  __ 

TENTH  EDITION,  price  Two  Shillings. 

r^ELESTlAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book  of 

yj    Astronomy.    Tenth  Bdition.    With  S  Flateo.    if  W.  T.  LYMM 
B.A.  F.R.A.S. 

"  WeU  known  as  one  of  onr  beet  IntrodncUons  to  aetronoay." 


SAMPSON  LOW  *  00.  St.  Dustaa's  Honsa,  IMter  Laae,  BC 


ATHEN^UM  PRESS— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS,  Printer  of  the  Atkmmum,  JVMst  mmd  flmmiu  *t.  ^ 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  aii  kinds  of  BOOK.  IfMWk 
and  PERIODICAL  PRINTING.— U,  Bream's  Bnildlaga.  C^rrT 
Lane,  B.C.  ' 

XCHANQE  (or  would  SUB-LET)  for  THBII 

MONTHS,  a  HOUSB  in  SoMh-Waat  Snbnrb  (ML  iwMl)  iar  • 
Residence  in  the  Oonntry,  or  Seaside.— Apply  F.,  iiniiWM  mn. 
Bream's  BnUdlngs,  B.C. 


STiCKPHAST    PASTE    is   HEAPS  better  thu 
Gnm  for  sticking  in  Seraps.  Joining  Faptta.  Ae.   iri:  andU.  wtt 
strong,  nsefnl  Bniah<not  VT^LSSYmMS  JlJSiiMlSi 
for  a  sample  Bottle,  inelnding  Brash.    Ihsnesj.  '^m^  hm^SR 
\  \iMMMen\ialVtoit, B.a   ofadlVtattoMfr   iSSL^TS^J^LiT^ 


9P«i8.viLMAYii,i90i.)       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


361 


LONDON,  SATUBDAY,  MAY  11,  1901. 


CONTENTS.  — No.  176. 
HOTBS^-Adam  Back,  861— Plough  Monday  Mummeries, 
363— The  0am— Bell  Inscription— Hereditary  Officials,  366 
—  Forty-Shilling  Day  — Witoh  Superstitions  —  Fortune- 
telling  at  Bideford,  366. 

QUBBIBS:  — Hately  Family— Nelson's  Death  — Jean  le 
Manique— Great  Britain  or  England— Si.  Giles's,  North- 
ampton—N.  or  M.— **Famina  and  Tamino"— Sir  Simeon 
Steward,  367- Latin  Motto— Oanadian  Boat  Song— Somer- 
set Ballad- Arms  of  Scotland— Ring  of  Elizabeth- Walker 
and  Staokhouse— Arbuthnott,368— The  Dukery— Crutten- 
dan— Antbors  Wanted,  369. 

REPLIES  :— Bernard  and  Bayard,  369— *  Bijou  Almanack ' 
—Jones  the  Regicide,  372— Scudamore— Gospel  of  St.  John 
as  a  Charm— "Lattermint"—**  Mary's  Chappel,"  373— 
Author  of  Verses— Heme,  Sheriff  of  London— **Wh6m  "= 
Home  —  Powdering  Gown— Worcester  Folk4ore— Throg- 
morton,  374  —  **  Twopenny  Tube  "  —  Latin  Motto  — 
** Bougies":  "Buggies"— St.  Clement  Danes,  375— The 
Bellman— Nell  Gwyn— Passage  in  Pope—"  To  sit  bodkin," 
376— Lemaistre—*  Child's  Own  Book '  — Chaucerian  Pas- 
sage, 377  —  Confidential  War  Dispatches  —  The  42nd  at 
Fontenoy— Author  of  Bedtation,  378. 

K0TB8  ON  BOOKS  :-Aitken's  *  Swift's  Journal  to  StelU ' 
— Raviews  and  Magazines. 

Rotioes  to  Correspondents. 


ADAM  BUCK. 
Sufficient  interest  has  lately  been  shown 
in  the  works  of  this  deceased  artist  to  induce 
me,  in  the  interest  of  collectors,  to  try  to 
find  out  something  more  about  him  than  the 
few  dry  lines  given  us  in  Redgrave,  Bryan, 
Graves,  the  *  Kiinstler  Lexikon,^&c.    The  re- 
mark by  Dr.  Nagler  that  "  the  day  of  Adam's 
death  being   unknown    must  satisfy "  onlv 
tnade  me  more  decided  on  discovering  it,  with 
the   result  that  though  the  day  cannot  be 
fixed,  at  least  I  nave  the  year  and  place.    My 
query  naturally  began  in  *  N.  &  Q.,'  but  to 
that  in  8^  S.  vi.  107  no  reply  came.    On  the 
very  kind  suggestion  of  Mr.  Catterson-Smith, 
of   the  Royal  Hibernian  Academy  of  Arts, 
to  whom  I  am  indebted  for  the  pains  taken  by 
him  in  research  into  Adam  Buck's  work,  I  put 
my  query  in  the  hands  of  the  editor  of  the 
CorJc  Constitution,  and  through  his  courtesy 
much  which  had   been  forgotten  has  been 
recovered.     The  *  Curiosities  of  Literature' 
and  those  of   history   have   been    written. 
And  surely  those  of  fashion  in  all  tastes  may 
be  of  equal  interest;  and  so  I  hope  some 
readers  of  *N.  <&  Q.'  will  find  it  ot  service 
to  know  something  more  about  the  artist  I 
write  ol 


Allowing  for  a  certain  hardness  of  draw- 
ing— the  fashion  of  his  day — with  his  pencil, 
Adam  Buck's  work  abounds  in  feeling,  not- 
withstanding Redgrave's  assertions  to  the  con- 
trary ;  and  before  nis  coinposition  is  blamed, 
we  must  remember  the  stiffness  that  encirclea 
the  Greek  period  as  reproduced  in  this  country, 
in  female  dress,  architecture,  and  furniture. 
When  we  look  on  such  examples  of  Buck's  as 
*  Mama  at  Romps,'  and  note  the  exquisite 
touch,  truthful  drawing,  and  high  finish,  the 
charm  that  surrounds  such  a  refined  work 
must  be  admitted.  Curiously  enough,  the 
'  Diet.  Nat.  Biog.'  has  no  note  of  Adam  Buck. 

Adam  was  the  elder  of  the  sons  of  Jona* 
than  Buck,  a  silversmith  of  Castle  Street, 
Cork,  and  was  born  there  in  1759.  There 
were  also  two  sisters :  one  lived  and  died  a 
maiden  lady  at  Cork  ;  the  other  became  Mrs. 
Morrison,  and  resided  in  London.  Adam's 
brother  Frederick  appears  to  have  studied 
portrait  painting  in  small,  as  did  Adam,* 
but,  as  we  shall  see,  it  was  Adam's  coming 
over  to  London  that  brought  him  into 
notice  as  a  miniature  painter.  He  was  then 
thirty -six.  Still  the  subiect  of  my  sketch 
was  busily  employed  in  his  native  town  in 
painting  portraits  in  small  in  water  colours, 
with  strongly  marked  outlines,  and  containing 
spaces  filled  in  flat  washes.  He  never  ex- 
hibited at  the  Royal  Hibernian  Academy  ;  in 
fact  until  1795,  when  he  was  in  London,  he 
never  seems  to  have  exhibited  either  in 
Ireland  or  England.  And  indeed  only  once 
was  he  represented  at  all  in  Ireland,  and  then 
it  was  at  the  third  exhibition  of  the  Hiber- 
nian Society,  which  was  held  in  the  Parlia- 
ment House  during  1822,  in  a  "portrait," 
No.  174.  Amonffst  the  miniatures  in  the 
Sheepshanks  Gallery  of  the  Victoria  and 
Albert  Museum  in  London  is  a  portrait 
of  himself,  in  which  he  is  shown  as  a 
man  about  forty-five  years  old,  having 
intelligent  eyes  of  a  kindly  expression ; 
this  is  dated  "1804,"  and  signed,  as  his 
habit  was,  '*Adam  Buck."  In  1795  we  find 
him  residing  at  No.  174,  Piccadilly,  and 
thence  he  sent  his  first  exhibited  pictures 
to  the  Royal  Academy,  then  under  the 
presidentship  of  Benjamin  West.  For  the 
thirty-eight  years  succeeding— 1800  the  only 
exception— he  annually  exhibited  there,  the 
total  number  of  works  sent  being  171.  During 
those  years  he  lived  in  London,  and  we  find 
him  exhibiting  also  at  the  British  Insti- 
tution (six)  and   at  the  Society  of  British 

*  Redgrave  mentions  Frederick  as  a  miniature 
painter,  as  also  does  Mr.  Propert  in  his  admirable 
mtroduction  to  the  Burlington  Ficve- Atti^CtVoX^  <»XAr 
logue  o!  their  m\m«A>wt«  «x}lci\\A\A.oxi  q\  YS5^« 


362 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [»-» s.  vn.  may  ii.  iwi. 


Artists  in  SuflFolk  Street  (eight).  Of  those  ex* 
hi  hi  ted  at  the  former,  two,  viz,,  *A  Roman 
Lady  prepared  for  the  Bath  *  and  *  The  Origin 
of  Painting/  had  been  previously  shown  at 
the  Royal  Acailemy,  a^  had  two  of  those 
Hhown  at  the  Scwiety  of  British  Artists. 

Adam  waa  married,  and,  aa  hia  nephew 
Adam  writes  to  me^  "  to  a  very  hanosome 
pei-uon,  and  the  idol  of  her  husband."  Her 
portrait  in  small  is  in  my  informant's  posses- 
sion, and  ia,  he  says,  "a  charming  picture." 
They  left  two  aons,  Alfi-cd  and  Sidney  ^  and 
only  the  latter  appears  to  have  continued 
hts  father's  profession,  living  in  London. 
Besides  the  181  por traits  and  drawings  Adam 
©xJiibitcd  in  London^  he  was  very  busy  m  a 
teacher  of  portraiture.  At  tho  time  (1812) 
be  was  residing  at  19,  Frith  iStreet,  and 
judging  by  the  numerous  examples  en- 
graved —  mostly  in  a  tipple  —  aftor  Inm  in 
colour  that  the  demand  nas  lately  brought 
to  light  (only  one  that  I  have  seen  is  after 
an  exhibitea  work)^  he  must  have  been  in 
great  requeat.  In  addition  to  his  teaching 
and  his  exhibition  work,  he  found  time  to 
bring  out  his  work  on  *  Paintings  on  Oi-eok 
Vaaea.  All  these  drawings,  to  the  number  of 
one  hundred,  wore  from  the  originals  ;  and  he 
was  his  own  engraver.  This  work,  which  he 
brought  out  as  a  continuation  of  Sir  William 
Hamilton's  on  a  similar  aubject,  must  be  very 
Bcarcet  as  I  have  tried  in  vain  for  some 
years  to  obtain  it,  and  there  is  no  copy  in  the 
British  Museum,  He  also  brought  out  a 
series  of  picturea  in  illustration  ol  the  *  Pro- 
press  of  Life.'  After  twelve  years  lie  left 
nis  residence  in  Piccadilly,  going  in  1807  to 
69,  Frith  Street^  moving  the  year  following 
to  No.  19»  and  here  he  remained  for  five 
years.  Hia  next  move  waa  to  14,  Bentinck 
Street,  Manchester  Squarei  but  after  a  thi'ee 

? rears'  tenancy  here  he  changed  to  No.  17, 
ivnng  there  five  years.  The  three  succeeding 
yeara  we  find  Adam  very  unsettled,  moving 
each  year ;  first  to  72,  Margaret  Street, 
C^avendish  Square,  next  to  10,  Upper  Sey- 
mour Street  West^  and  thence  to  No.  16. 
This  was  hia  laat  move^  for  In  1633^ the  year 
of  thia  move  to  No.  15 — news  of  his  death  in 
London  was  received  by  hia  brother  Frederick, 
He  worked  to  the  end,  for  thia  year  he  aent 
three  portraits  to  the  Royal  Academy  and 
two  to  the  Society  of  British  Artists.  His 
wife  and  children  survived  him.  After  having 
thus  reviewed  all  that  is  possible  of  a  busy 
artist's  life  we  know  very  little.  But  with 
'N.  &  Q.'s'  permiasion  some  may  read  with 
interest  what  I  have  noted,  and  the  time 
spent  in  attempting  to  write  the  omitted 
moaogmph  will  not  be  quite  thrown  away. 


A  OOM PLTTE  LIST  OP  AOAM  BUCX's  KXHtBIttO 
WOBXa. 

At  Che  Rojfoi  AcGuiemu^ 

1795.  Portrait  of  a  g^otleman  and  family  (Mr.  and 
Mra.  White)  j  a  drawing. 

1796.  A  drawing  ;  a  mmkturo  ;  a  djfawiDg. 

1797.  Portrait  of  a  young  lady;  a  iady  and  family ; 
a  mniiaturo  of  a  Lady  and  son. 

1798.  Poftraitfl  ;  two  mmiatures. 

1799.  Portrait  of  Master  Parker,  the  mtiKical 
child  5  a  drawing  j  portraits. 

iSOl.  Portraits  of  a  lady  and  gentleman  ;  portrait 
of  a  lady  ;  ditto  ;  mitiiature  of  a  lady  ;  ditto, 

1802,  Portrait  of  Mr*.  Mountain,  vocalist  and 
actress  {1768-1841);  portrait  of  a  lady  mad  child; 
portrait  of  a  lady  j  a  lady  and  child  ;  a  lady  ;  Tto 
Origin  of  Painting ;  portraits  of  two  ladiea, 

1803.  The  Earl  of  Cavan  {  tho  Coutitea*  of  Cavan ; 
Mr.  D.  Panncefort ;  Lady  H.  E-ambert ;  Lady  A.  L 
Lambert ;  a  young  lady  -  ditto. 

Idm.  Mias  Parquhar;  Mis^  Pope;  Mr.  and  Mm 
and  Misa  Harrison;  H,RH.  th«  Duke  of  York ;  i 
lady  ;  ditto  ;  Miss  Adama, 

1805.  A  lady-  Mrs.  Buck  | miniature),  Adatn'i 
wife :  Manter  Morriaon,  Adam's  nephew ;  Mi« 
Middlemin  ;  Miss  Ueweii ;  the  Hon.  Mm.  J^tewart^ 

1806.  A  lady ;  a  gentleman  ;  deiign  for  a  portrait  j 
Madaiwe  (iautherat,  profeasor  of  the  vioUn:  a  Udj; 
a  lady  (n>iniatiire) ;  ditto  :  ditto. 

1807*  Miss  F.  C^«orge  ;  a  lady  ;  Counlest  Cewpw; 
her  oon  Lord  Fordwich ;  a  tady;  Mr.  Oeozfe;  i 
child  ;  a  lady  (miniature) ;  a  aubject. 

\&M.  A  favourite  domeatic ;  a  youn^  gentkmiii; 
a  Roman  J^dy  prepared  forthe  Bath ;  Lieut  ^ieoeril 
Baron  Hompeech,  with  an  emblematical  background; 
deaiffu  for  portraits  ;  a  lady ;  a  youne  lady. 

1W&.  A  child;  Awake  (thia  is  elsewhert  u  A 
Wake !) ;  the  Rev.  C-  K-  Stewart ;  M  ra.  M  urray,  1»E*  I 
Miss  Gay  ton  ;  Psyche  at  the  couch  of  Ciipid  («o- 
grasred  in  colour) ;  Psyche  with  the  caaket> 

IS  10.  Mrs.  Lowe,  in  the  ancient  Greek  costume 
from  classical  authorit^r ;  a  lady  in  ancient  (!reek 
costume ;  frame  containing  Miss  Grotej  Mina 
Hope  and  L^njj^ston  ;  a  ladv  ;  a  geutlcmao. 

Bll,  Mr.  G.  Conner,  East  Indian  Artiilerr; 
Madame  Bertinotti ;  Badicati  in  the  chartct«r  of 
Pbiedra  ;  a  lady ;  Capt,  8ir  John  Yeo,  E.N. ;  i 
child. 

181'2.  H.R.H.  the  Duke  of  \ork  ;  a.ytymm  m^ 
man  ;  a  portrait ;  design  for  a  portrait  ;  >Ii!^  ^I«t- 
calfe, 
I     IHl^,  A  lady ;  a  Venetian  lady  and  her  daujflitin 
a  ffeutleiuan. 

J  814.  Portraits  of  a  family,  with  the  buat  w  i 
deceased  child. 

1815.  A  lady. 

1816.  A  lady. 

1817.  Two  sisters;  t  wo  brothers  ;  Lord  CkidirM** 
Mr.  Gobbet t ;  8ir  Francis  Bizrdett ;  Mre.  A  1^ 
Edridge. 

181 8v  A  gentleman;  Major  Car t Wright;  a  y«"*« 
lady  ;  a  child ;  a  lady  and  child ;  a  genilemiD ;  t 
lady;  ditto. 

im,  A  family t  Mrs.  J.  Burke;  Mr*  and  Mn* 
Rogers  and  family. 

18*Jt*,  Musters  Gharles  and  Honry  Lemann ;  rfjo^ 
Cam  Hobhouse,  M.P.  for  Westminster;  ">* 
Charles  Craven  and  son ;  a  lady;  the  children  ™ 
Arthur  Brown,  Esq.;  a  KentlemAn;  a  yonnf  ^^Aji 
a  lady. 
,     \91L  A  lady  and  her  ton ;  n  lady ;  dittos 


,  Mat  11. 19010      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


363 


ouDg  ladv  ;  a  young  gentleman. 

s  Orde  ;  hia  son  ;  a  young  lady. 

Jter  Frederick  Raikes. 

idy  and  her  daughter ;  a  family ;  Hugh 

herty,  Esq.;  Hugh  Doherty,  Esq. 

Idren  of  John  Hurke,  Esq. ;  Laoiy  Chat- 

neral  the  Earl  of  Cavan  ;  a  gentleman. 

&milj  ;  a  ladv ;  an  officer  ;  a  ladv. 

3  children  of  the  late  Judge  Fuilerton ; 

quality ;  a  lady ;  a  child ;  a  lady ;   a 

ooleman. 

traits  of  the  same  child  ;  Mrs.  C.  Wilkin- 

lild ;  an  East  Indian  young  lady ;  part 

ly  of  J.  G.  Ravenshaw,  Esq.,  with  tneir 

trgiana. 

I  son  ;  Miss  Hamniersley  ;  a  child  ;  Mrs. 

and  her  son  ;  his  son. 

•traits  of  a  family ;  part  of  a  family,  with 

ponv. 

s  Album ;  E.  W.  Tuson,  Esq..  professor 

,  and  family ;  Bacchanalians  (a  sketch) ; 

a  lady. 

'trait   of    a  ladv ;   John    Burke,  Esq , 

le  *  Peerage/  and  his  son ;  the  children  of 

I.  Turguand,  Esq.,  of  India  (here  note 

S9  is  misprinted  936  in  the  catalogue). 

At  the  Britufh  Institution, 
►ther  and  sister  :  The  Key ;  Carelessness  ; 
The  Origin  of  Painting  (see  R.A.  1802). 
ioman  Lady  prepared  for  the  Bath  (see 

Dcietp  of  British  Artists,  Suffolk  Street, 
am  and  Eve,  after  Fuseli,  R.A.;  Sketch- 
wts  of  a  family,  with  the  bust  of  a  de- 
Id  (this  reads  like   the  R.A.  1814  pic- 
rait  of  a  young  lady, 
idy ;  an  East  Indian  lady.* 
tudy  ;  portraits  of  the  same  child.* 

k's  works  unexhibited  I  am  aware 
forty  or  fifty  that  were  engraved 
ed  in  colours. 

Harold  Malet,  Colonel. 


JGH  MONDAY  MUMMERIES. 
(Concluded  from  p.  324.) 

llowing  variant  of  the  pla-y,  which 
en  down  for  me  by  J.  H.,  a  Kirton- 
y  man,   who    before  his  marriage 
)  one  of  the  performers,  contains  the 
}ve  "  in  connexion  with  a  hat : — 
not  much  sieve  left  in  the  lining, 
lilk,"  or  **8leave,"  formerly  meant 
floss -silk  used  for  weaving^  and 
e  quotations  given  bv  Nares  in  his 
r  *  under  '  Sleave-silk    we  find  :— 
bank  with  dafiadillies  dight, 
h  grass  like  sleave  was  matted. 

'  Quest  of  Cynthia,'  p.  622. 

as  "  sleave-silk  flies  "  (sonnets,  *  The 

47).     In   the    plough-iag's   play  it 

3m  to  signify  either  silken  fabric,  or 

*  Exhibited  at  the  R,A,  1829. 


the  nap  on  such  a  fabric  when  woven  with  a 
satin -like  surface. 

PartL 

Good  evening,  ladies  and  gentlemen  all, 

Xmas  being  a  merry  time 

We  thought  we  would  give  you  a  call  : 

And  if  you  will  listen 

To  what  I  have  got  to  say. 

For  in  a  short  time  there  will  be 

Some  more  pretty  boys  and  girls  this  way. 

Some  can  dance,  and  some  can  sing ; 

^y  your  consent  they  shall  come  in. 

Part  II. 
In  comes  a  recuiting  seargant. 

As  I  suppose  you  are. 
You  want  some  bold  malitia  men, 

To  face  the  rageing  war. 
We  will  bravely  face  the  enemy, 

And  do  the  best  we  oan^ 
And  if  they  don't  prove  civil. 

We  will  slay  them  every  man. 
Part  III.  {Ltidy  sings). 
In  comes  a  lady  brieht  and  gay. 

Good  fortunes  and  sweet  charms ; 
I  've  scornfully  being  thrown  away 

Out  of  some  lover^  arms. 
He  swears  if  I  dont  wed  with  him. 

As  you  all  understand. 
He'll  list  all  for  a  soldier. 

And  go  to  some  foreign  land. 

First  Man  says. 
Pray,  madam,  if  them  be  his  thoughts 

let  him  go. 

He  never  meanes  to  wed  with  you. 

But  prove  your  overthrow. 
When  poverty  once  begins  to  pinch. 

In  wnich  it  will  some  day. 
He  *\\  have  another  sweetheart 

And  with  her  he'll  run  away. 
Lady. 
Thank  you,  kind  sir,  for  your  advice 

Whicn  you  have  given  to  me. 
I  never  meant  to  wed  with  him, 

But  have  him  for  to  know 
I  '11  have  another  sweetheart, 

And  along  with  him  I  '11  go. 

4th  Man. 
In  comes  I,  King  George, 

With  courage  stout  and  bold : 
With  this  bright  sword  I  won 

Ten  thousand  pounds  in  gold. 
I  fought  a  fiery  dragon, 

And  brought  him  to  the  slaughter 
And  by  that  means  I  won 
The  queen's  eldest  daughter. 
I  'ashed  him  and  smashed  him  as  small  as  flies. 
And  sent  him  to  jamacia  to  make  mince-pies. 

ind  Man  says. 
Thou  'ashed  me  and  smashed  me  as  small  as  flies. 
And  sent  me  to  jamacia  to  make  mince-pies. 
Hold  thy  lies  or  my  blood  will  rise  ! 
If  thou  art  the  King  I  dare  face  the. 

Then  aries  a  duel  between  the  2nd  man  and  the 
King.    The  King  knocks  the  *i«iA.  t«wv  ^«y«Tv. 

King. 
Five  poundA  lot  «^\>t. 


364 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      l^  s.  vii.  mat  ii,  i90l 


No  l>r*  under  ten. 

T«ii  pounds  for  a  Br. 

Dr. 
In  eomea  I,  the  Dn 

King. 
How  eomea  you  to  be  the  Dr.  ? 

J>r. 
By  my  tmvels. 

Kin^;. 
Whore  have  you  traveled  from  ? 
Dr. 
From  the  fireside  to  the  bedside,  and  from  the 
beddde  to  the  old  eomer  cubbard,  where  there  I 
have  bftd  many  a  nice  bit  of  pork -pie  and  inince-pict 
that  makei  me  aueh  a  bold  fellow  ai  I  am. 

King. 
What  can  you  cure? 

JDr. 

Almost  aiiythirvff. 

The  iLeh,  the  pitch,  the  palsy,  Kout, 
Faiiis  within*  and  jMiheti  without. 
If  this  man  'ait  ^ot  19  diseases  within  him  I  wiJi 
fetch  21  out.    Take  hold  of  this  bottle  wtiile  i  feel 
on  this  man'e  puke. 

King. 
WJiere  do  you  feel  on  his  pulso? 

Dr. 
Where  it  beats  the  atronf^est. 

This  man's  not  dead  he  his  only  in  a  trance, 
Riee  up  niv  good  tumi  and  have  a  dance. 

P?ne  lady  aud  the  2nd  man  dances. 

In  cornea  XH>or  old  lame  lane 

Leaping  over  the  meadow  ; 
Once  I  was  a  bloom in^  girl, 

But  now  I  am  a  down  old  widow. 
You  see  my  old  hat  hia  boath  j^reacey  and  fat, 

And  that  you  can  tell  by  this  flijineiiie  ; 
There  hia  boles  in  the  crow  n^  and  holeij  all  round, 

And  not  much  aleve  left  in  the  liueing. 

neu  ait  nng. 
Good  maateri  and  good  mistreasj 

A  a  you  flit  rounn  the  fire. 
Remember  ua  poor  plough -Wjys 

That  go  through  niud  and  mire  i 
The  mire  is  so  deep, 

Aud  the  water  runs  ^o  clear  ; 
We  wish  you  a  merry  Xman, 

And  a  happy  New  Year. 

Wh<3n  a  portion  of  this  play  was  actefl  by 
very  young  lads  a  few  years  ago^  *Hhe 
Doctor,'*  who  then  found  the  patient's  pulse 
in  hia  shin,  wore  a  top  hat  that  was  much 
too  large.  This  imposing  headgear  lent  him 
an  appearance  which  was  all  that  could  be 
desired  when  it  was  held  up  by  hia  ears,  but 
at  certain  disastrous  tuoments  tnese  supports 
would  fail,  and  sudden  eclipse  overtake  the 
owncfJ,   however^  that 


actor.    It    must   be 

whiie  wrmtVmg  with   the   iiifficulties    thus   „„|,  .«,^^,i,^^  «^^*  ^^r:,^i^^  »^^^'  ^u^  ^iin. 
^«..  .^.j        J  -tt,  1       i.  ti        \.^\^  ^^^^^  u^  I  apt  to  i>rodii<5e  great  i^oatusLoii  amoDg  th«  a««c'^ 

cBu^e<i,  and  througliout  the  whole  aeerve^teA^^^  >i&M^  \;v\.^^  Crom  the  8ervi^t«.   It  wm 
Jtke  hm  companions,  succeedcKl  iti  pT€aftTVln^\^i'^^^.^ft^.Vfe'Batftti■^\1il^^\^^  i^^ir  «t«lB,«» 


a  funereal  gravity  of  deportment.  It  wa» 
only  froni  the  sense  of  the  words  uttered,  not 
from  infcouatiou  or  gesture,  the  spectator 
couirl  gather  that  tliey  i*ere  witnessing  a 
drama  which  had  been  conceived  in  a  certain 
j^pirit  of  levity.  Even  the  allusion  to  pork- 
pie  failed  to  evoke  a  gleam  of  animation. 

The  wife  of  J,  H.,  who  supplied  this  dia- 
logue, was  once  mucfx  alarmed  when  ahe  was  a 
girl  living  a.s  a  servant  at  WaJ  ton- le~ Dale,  near 
Fattershall,  for  a  man  disguised  as  a  sheep 
(see  '  Chnstmas  Tup,^  *  N.  &  QV  B^H.  ii,  Qll) 
opened  the  outer  door  of  the  house,  in  which 
she  happened  to  be  alona    He  was  one  of  i 
set  of  plough -jags ;  but  she  could  not  describe 
his  mates  and  their  costumes,  for,  startled 
and  afraid,  she  "baiiged  the  door  to^"  t4J  keep 
the  gang  from  entering.    Usually  **the  lady," 
**lame  Jane,"  who  represents  a  rough  old 
woman  with  a  besom,    the  soldier,**  and  "the 
king"   are   dressed    with    some    regard   t<3 
character.    The  plough-jags  with  no  s^iokeii 
parts,  who  used  to  be  the  bullocks  drawing 
the  plough,  or  sometimes  sword -players,  it 
may  t>e,  should,  properly  speaking,  wear  very 
tall  be  ribboned  nats,  with  white  shirts  o^r 
their  other  clothes.    These  shirts  should  abo 
be  trimmed   with  ribbons  and  other  om*- 
ments;  but  the  garments  are  seldom  seen 
now— perhaps  because  white  linen  shirts  m 
at  present  rarely  kept  for  wearing  on  h^b 
days  and  holidays  by  the  men  themsejv^  or 
by  the  friends  from  whom  they  cat;  borrow* 
The  fool  should  be  dressed   in   skins,  or  in 
snippets  of  brightly  coloured  ntgs,  and  ^houhl 
he  armed  with  a  bladder  at  the  end  of  a  whip, 
or  some  such  weapon. 

The  "fool-plough,^^  "fond-plough,"  "stot- 
plough,"  or  **  white-plough  ^'  was  onee  well 
known  in  the  north  of  Kngland,  where  it  mj 
probably  yet  be  found.  The  Gloucestersbire 
mummers  still  give  a  representation  evidentiy 
traceable  to  the  same  source  as  the  Lincoln 
shire  di"araas ;  and  in  the  Isle  of  Man«  toc^th« 
**  White  Boys  "  enact,  or  not  many  years  i|?o 
enacted,  an  allied  play  during  Christmw 
week.  A  writer  in  the  Qiteen^  1  Janu*rj» 
1 808,  thus  describes  a  scene  once  familiar  in 
farmhouse  kitchens  ■— 

^*  Local  etiquette  denianda  that  the  whole  ho^ 
hold  should  witness  the  performance^  and  DotwiU|" 
standing  thai  the  youthml  actors  are  eovei'cd  v^^ 
confusion  J  their  parta  are  jfoue  thro  it  ^h  bnieb' 
The  scene  now  m  my  mind  suggests  a  troaiJ^" 
ruaskad  l>oys  all  oddly  dressed  in  white,  wfeftJif*! 
high  Iieadcfressea,  and  each  one  earryinir  ■  1°** 
sword.  There  was  a  t^rihle  death  scene,  in  wbidi 
the  hoaddress  generally  fiillpi  off  the  victim's  In*'" 
at  the  aamt'  time  di\^ly:inK  his  identity*    Thia**-* 


9*  8.  VIL  May  11. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


365 


here  was  do  stage  or  scenery.  It  generally  began 
ery  suddenly,  and  ended  with  the  death  of  the 
lero.** 

In  tho  best  of  these  dramas,  which  still 
ireserve  the  combat  the  dead  man  is  revived 
>y  the  doctor,  a  detail  which  folk-lorists 
egard  as  of  hoary  antiquity.  The  warriors 
aay  call  themselves  St.  George,  King  George, 
•"oreign  Traveller,  Recruiting  Sergeant,  Turk, 
ndian  King,  or  any  other  title  which  will 
ake  with  the  audience,  but  the  death-scene 
3  in  reality  a  survival  from  the  days  when 
he  decline  and  decay  of  winter,  and  the 
eeuscitation  of  energy  in  the  spring,  were 
epresented  in  the  struggle  and  the  awaken- 
ngto  life  of  the  defeated!  man. 

The  practice  of  going  about  with  a  plough 
s^as  once  common  in  Germany.  In  the 
ixteenth  century  the  implement  had  an 
.rtfuUy  arranged  fire  burning  on  it,  and  in 
ome  villages  it  was  dragged  about  till 
t  was  burnt  to  pieces,  as  we  learn  from 
^annhardt's  *Baumkultus.'  Another  German 
custom  was  for  voung  women  to  be  harnessed 
o  the  plough  by  lads,  who  drove  it  finally 
nto  a  stream,  and  then  led  the  dripping 
;eam  to  feast  and  dance.  This  was  an  Ash 
Wednesday  sport.  When  Mannhardt  avrote 
lis  book  the  fashion  of  yoking  girls  to  the 
)lough  still  prevailed  at*Neustaat  in  Lower 
^ranconia,  where  a  plough-feast  was  held 
jvery  seventh  year  in  the  month  of  February. 
SVhether  it  is  still  observed  I  am  unable  to 
»ay.  In  Stanzerthal  in  Tyrol  the  plough 
«rent  round  at  Easter,  but  in  some  places 
IV^hitsuntide  was  the  proper  season.  The 
)lough  is,  or  was,  also  taKen  about  during 
he  carnival  in  Carinthia,  and  the  custom 
las  been  observed  near  Paris.  In  Denmark, 
t  the  end  of  the  last  century.  New  Year's- 
ide  was  the  proper  season  for  going  round 
rith  the  plough  (Mannhardt,  '  Baumkultus,' 

SK  553,  557,  558,  559).  It  should  perhaps  be 
ded  that  driving  a  plough  drawn  by  girls 
ito  water  is  probablv  another  form  of  the 
ractice  of  ducking  the  statues  of  saints  to 
rinK  rain  for  the  oenefit  of  growing  crops. 
.  figure  named  "  Carnival  "—or  its  ashes— 
r  a  representation  of  Judas,  is  flung  into 
l^ream  or  sea  by  some  Christian  nations,  and 
his  ceremony  is  held  to  be  an  adaptation 
f  old  heathenism  to  modern  beliefs.  The 
luppet  once  represented  the  outworn  and 
rinterly  season,  and  it  was  cast  into  the 
lement  which  promotes  revivification, 
Towth,  and  fertility.  Mabel  Peacock. 
Kirton-in-Lindsey. 


The   River    Cam.    (See   ante,   p.  336.)— 
Qeaitthah   Tom  asks  on  what  grounds   I 


asserted  that  the  river  now  called  the  Cam 
formerly  bore  the  name  Granta.  I  had 
imagined  the  reasons  to  be  so  notorious  that 
it  was  needless  again  to  specify  them.  Per- 
haps it  may  suffice  to  give  three  brief  ones. 
In  the  first  place,  the  stream  above  Cambridge 
still  continues  to  bear  its  ancient  name  of 
Granta,  and  a  village  on  its  banks  two 
miles  from  Cambridge  is  called  Gran- 
chester,  thus  marking  the  site  of  a  Roman 
castrum  on  the  Granta.  Then  in  the  *  A.-S. 
Chronicle '  the  town  is  not  called  Cambridge, 
but  Grantabrycg,  Grantebrycg,  and  Grantan- 
brycg.  Also  in  the  earliest  charters  Cam- 
bridgeshire is  called  Grantebrigise  Comitatus 
and  Grantebrigeshire,  which  became  cor- 
rupted into  Cantebruggescr,  which  first 
appears  in  a  charter  of  1142,  thus  giving  the 
date  of  the  commencement  of  the  change 
that  suggested  the  antiquarian  figment  Cam, 
which  has  now  replaced  the  ancient  name 
Granta.  This  was  doubtless  supported  by 
the  Celto-Latin  Camboritum,  appearing  in 
the  fifth  Itinerary,  but  this  has  no  etymo- 
logical connexion  with  the  present  name  of 
the  town,  if  indeed  the  names  refer  to  the 
same  place.  Isaac  Taylob. 

Bell  Inscription  at  Puncknowle,  Dorset, 
of  Date  1629.    (See  3^^  S.  vii.  137.)— 

**Hethatwilpvrcha8honor8gaynemv8tancient- 
lathersstilmayntayne." 

I  sent  the  above  to  Mr.  Henry  Bradley  for 
the  '  N.E.D.,'  in  case  any  confirmation  of  the 
word  "  lathers  "  was  forthcoming.  He  replies 
with  the  following  excellent  suggestion.  I 
should  suppose,  however,  that  the  inscription 
has  been  rightly  read,  but  that  it  is  wrong 
on  the  bell,  as  such  inscriptions  so  frequently 
are:— 

"I  dare  not  put  in  the  word  lather  on  the 
authority  of  the  inscription,  but  send  you  the 
suggestion  that  the  word  may  have  been  misread. 
*  Ancient  Fathers'  style*  would  make  sense,  and 
the  mode  of  exnressiou  is  quite  usual  in  the  seven- 
teenth century.^'  _ 

J.  T.  F. 

Durham. 

Hereditary  Officials.— The  devolution 
of  manly  offices  on  the  gentler  sex  by  feudal 
succession  has  its  inconveniences,  which  may 
be  elucidated  by  an  examination  into  the 
descent  of  the  elevated  official  named  Lord 
High  Chamberlain,  a  nobleman  not  often 
called  upon  to  exercise  his  very  dignified 
duties,  the  Lord  Chamberlain  of  the  House- 
hold being  more  before  the  public.  The 
more  important  of  these  two  offices^  «ft 
similarly  named,  \%  «A.  ^T^»fc\i'^^^ci  \^  «^^R^^ 
1  mergcxl  beWeen  t\\bX  ^»Kxcka»xA&.  '"^^^^Sasfe 


366 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9-»8.vn.MAYii.M0L 


was  granted  by  King  Henry  I.  to  a  De  Vere, 
and  from  the  Earls  of  Oxford  it  fell  by  a  lady 
heir  to  Bertie,  Lord  Willoughby  D  Eresby, 
who  then,  not  obtaining  tlie  earldom  of 
Oxford,  was  created  Earl  of  Lindsey,  and 
by  another  lady  it  passed  to  the  Burrells. 

Again,  by  further  failure  of  the  male  line, 
the  office  became  vested  jointly  in  two  sisters, 
now  represented  by  the  Earls  of  Ancaster 
and  Carrington.  But  meanwhile  an  unbroken 
stem  had  survived,  for  the  last  Bertie,  as 
Duke  of  Ancaster,  left  two  sisters.  The  elder 
married  a  Burrell,  as  above,  the  younger 
married  the  first  Marquis  of  Cholmondeley ; 
so  the  present  marquis,  who  equally  repre- 
sents the  De  Veres,  officiated  as  Lord  "  High  " 
at  the  State  opening  of  the  present  Parliament 
by  our  King  Edward  VII.  and  I.  The  public 
have  not  been  informed  whether  the  marquis 
acted  by  special  royal  appointment  as  repre- 
sentative of  the  "  joint ''  claim  held  by  two 
earls,  or  in  his  own  right  of  a  whole  "  third  " 
as  against  a  divided  unity.    FitzGlanvil. 

Forty-Shilling  Day.— I  am  indebted  to 
the  Antiquary  ior  April  for  the  following,  and 
as  the  custom  has  not  been  noticed  in  *N.  &  Q.,' 
I  send  it  for  publication  therein  : — 

**A  curious  custom,  known  as  Forty-Shilline 
Day,  prevails  at  Wotton,  Surrey,  and  was  obeerved 
in  February.  A  former  resident,  Mr.  William  Glan- 
ville,  left  under  his  will  409.,  the  condition  being 
that  on  the  anniversary  of  his  funeral  the  village 
boys  should  attend  in  the  churchyard,  and,  with 
one  hand  on  his  tomb,  recite  by  heart  the  Lord's 
Prayer,  the  Ten  Commandments,  and  the  Apostles' 
Creed,  read  the  fifty-eight  verses  in  1  Cor.  xv.,  and 
afterwards  write  two  verses  from  the  chapter  by 
dictation.  Seven  lads  were  successful  in  winning 
the  408.,  and  they  performed  their  task  creditably, 
though  nervousness  was  responsible  for  one  or  two 
mistakes.  After  the  ordeal  the  lads  were  enter- 
tained to  dinner  by  the  village  squire." 

EvKKABD  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Witch  Superstitions  in  the  Republic  of 
Colombia.— It  is  always  very  difficult  to  get 
people  to  tell  their  superstitions— if  they 
really  believe  them  — but  I  found  witch 
superstitions  took  at  least  a  couple  of  years 
loneer  to  extract  than  other  kinds. 

The  reason  given  for  declining  to  talk  on 
the  matter  used  to  be  "  that  the  priest  had 
forbidden  it "  ;  which,  however,  if  true,  would 
have  held  p;ood  always ;  and  as  I  aid  get 
at  the  beliefs— or  some  of  them — on  this 
matter  in  time,  I  suspect  this  was  not  the 
real  objection. 

I  heard  things  from  various  quarters,  but 
all  prefaced  by  a  pause,  and  then  the  Spanish 
a&ywg  :  "  No  hay  que  creer  in  bm^aa,  i^ro 
que  laa  bay  !  las  hay  ! "  (One  is  not  to  obVibNe 


in  witches,  but  for  all  that  there  are  witches  ; 
yes  !  there  are!)  The  first  sort  of  witches 
take  several  shapes,  generally  a  vulture,  a 
t  urkey,  or  a  fox.  If  in  bird  form,  they  fly 
very  rapidly  —  they  fly  to  collect  news— 
and  perch  on  the  tops  of  houses,  tearing 
lioles  in  the  thatch  to  look  through  (few 
Iiouses  in  country  places  have  ceilings) ;  they 
also  watch,  in  this  way,  to  carrj'  off  un- 
1>aptized  infants. 

The  other  kind  of  witch  stops  at  home, 
and  does  not  change  her  shape,  but  is  chiefly 
(Xicupied  with  the  manufacture  of  toads, 
r^nakes,  and  reptiles  of  different  sorts,  which 
are  somehow  caused  to  enter  and  live  inside 
other  people's  stomachs. 

A  witch  may  be  discovered  in  three  ways. 

1.  By  setting  a  trap  of  certain  herbs  and 
Mprinkled  mustard  disposed  on  the  floor  of 
the  house  in  the  form  of  a  cross  ;  then  if  the 
witch  comes  at  night  in  the  shape  of  a  bird 
and  starts  tearing  off  the  thatch  to  come 
down  through  the  roof,  as  soon  as  the  hole  is 
made  and  sne  sees  the  herb  cross  she  will 
fall  through  and  resume  her  human  shape- 
minus  clothes,  of  course. 

2.  If  the  witch  be  supposed  to  be  ranging 
round  outside  the  house  in  the  form  of  a 
four-footed  beast  somebody  must  open  the 
door  and  call  the  creature,  saying:  |*Oo 
away  now.  but  come  back  in  the  morning; 
then  I  will  give  you  a  bag  of  salt,  or  sugar, 
or  something  of  that  sort.**  Next  day  the 
witch  in  her  own  shape  will  knock  at  the 
door  and  say  :  **  Well,  where 's  that  bag  of 
salt,  (Ibc,  you  promised  me  last  night  1 " 

3.  The  third  plan  is  simpler,  and  consists 
merely  in  looking  at  the  suspected  person  and 
cursing  her  in  one's  heart  when,  if  a  witch,  she 
will  grow  ashamed  and  slink  off  in  confusion. 
This  is  not  recommended,  because,  should  one 
curse  the  wrong  old  woman,  the  curse  takes 
effect  on  the  curser,  and  not  on  the  cursed. 

iBAGiri 
[See  *  Animals  in  People's  Insides,*  an/e,  pp.  222. 

FOKTUNE-TKLLING  AT  BiDEFORD.— An  aftist 

of  note  living  at  Ilf  racombe  writes  to  a  friend 
in  London  on  a  subject  which  very  strikingly 
illustrates  the  fact  that  the  fashionable  ladies 
who  consult  fortune-tellers  and  wizards  in 
Bond  Street  are  not  alone  in  keeping  up  old 
superstitions.    He  says  :— 

"  I  enclose  a  cutting  from  the  Western  itar*^ 
XewH  of  to-day  [11  April]  which  will  interest  you«» 
tihowinfc  how  hard  superstitions  die.  Slade,  as  f>B 
may  remember,  is  a  village  close  to  Ilfraoonbe  oa 
the  road  to  Lee.  When  I  was  ill  a  few  yeara  afo  a^ 
C\ov^>\^  «.T^  lAd  ^Sherman  who  was  a  friend  <rf  "U"* 


g- 8.  vn.  May  11. 1901.)      NOTES  AND  QUERIES.  367 

persuading  me  to  diamiss  my  doctor  and  send  for  Fleet  Street,  published  in  1845,  in  the  foot- 
the  White  Witch,  who  was  a  man.  I  never  could  note  on  p.  137  reference  is  made  to  an  epitaph 
il»'*R^.w^„*^iHL'^lirK  ^l'!^*  '^mA^  ;ff  on  .Jean  le  Manique,  le  Sieur  de  Boucicault, 
8^^e?ti^t5S^S^Tw»a»th*?,^^n§'  Marechal  de  FraSc^  Comte  de  Beaufort,  an3 
ioR  to  tell  the  fortunes  of  William  Hewitt  and  Vicomte  de  Turenne.  Could  you  kindly  in- 
his  father,  of  Slade,  Ilfracombe.  On  9  February  form  me  from  what  authority  the  com- 
young  Hewitt  went  to  Bideford  to  see  Mrs.  Sayers  mentator  deiivea  his  knowledge,  where  that 
about  his  father,  who  was  ill.  and,  he  feared,  ill  epitaph  is,  and  of  what  words  in  full  it  con- 
wished.  8ayers  agreed  that  that  was  so,  and  that  ^/l^.^  f  '  nx/M^r  Pr.TTr.Tri  a  ttt  rr 
the  son  was  also  overlooked.  She  would  cure  them  ^^^^L  ^„  ,  ^,  ^  DiON  BOUCICAULT. 
both    for  St.  3«.      He  paid  her  11.   10«..  and  she  34,  Duke  {street,  St.  James  s. 

f>romi8ed  to  visit  Ilfracombe  on  the  Monday  fol-  [We  have  encountered  a  Rue  or  Place  Boucicault 

owing,  and  that  [«u;l  Hewitt  must  meet  her.    He  did  in  one  of  the  cities  of   Touraine  or  Poitou,  we 

so,  and  on  the  way  home  told  her  he  had  lost  a  pig  forget  which.    ?  Poitiers.] 

and  some  poultry,  and  another  pig  he  had  was  not  ,  ^             ^               ,                   ,,  ^                 „ 

worth  anything.    She  went  to  the  pigsty,  and  also  **  GREAT  BRITAIN ''  VERSUS   "  ENGLAND."— 

to  the  fowls'  house,  and  sprinklea  some  powder  In  his   *  Journal  to  Stella,'  under  the  date 

there  to  cure  them,  and  Hewitt  paid  her  a  guinea,  2  December,  1710,  Swift  says  :— 

Then  Sayers  gave  him  some  little  bags,  telling  him  tto.    1      -ll                  u       j         ^.u     •        j     *^«. 

the  whole  f^ily  muat  wear  .  therround  %heir  "^^^futlJi^^L  1*?,  ^^^J^^'Z^l^V?^^ 


Ban.  fjivo.    X  hey  had  been  very  kiuu  w  imu.     xuc  -i    .       -    .    .-      -  .,.     ,-       tt     u      *    j        -:  4.^^ 

woman  was  paiH  \2h.  by  Mrsf  Hewitt.    In  cross-  tHr.mi^  this  into  ndicule.    He  has  to-day jpnn^ 

examination    the    witnesses    admitted    that    the  tbr  h  i  u  land  simed  itwith  J.  S.^  M.  P.,andN.  K., 

Hewitts  did  get  better.     The  defence  was  that  ^^^  ^"^  ^e^^™  «*  *"  o"^  ni^meB. 

Sayers  had  onl^  done  what  she  was  asked  to  do,  Is    this  the  earliest  known  instance  of  the 

and  that  she  did  not  mention  either  Mr.  or  Mrs.  protest  ?      **  Qreat   Britain  "    was  of    course 

Slee.    She  was  fined  31.  and  1/.  18«.  costs.' "  employed  much  earlier  (see  *  H.E.D.'). 

^'  H.  T. 

^     .  St.  Giles's  Church,  Northampton.  —  I 

9ntrus«  have  a  newspaper  extract  which  states  that 

Wb  must  reauest  correspondents  desirinjs  infer-  down  to  1489  tlie    mayor  and   burgesses  of 

mation  on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest  Northampton  met  in  St.  Giles's  Church,  and 

i?«5«,^^hit?KT!^.wfr.*^l^S^  <iid   their    municipal    business    there.    Will 

SiS^  ^  so'^e    reader    kindly    oblige   me    with    the 

authority  for  this  statement  ? 

Hately  Family.— I  should  be  obliged  for  S-  ^'  ^^^y- 

information    concerning    the   pedigree   and       N.  or  M.  in  the  Prayer  Book.— Can  you 

birthplace  of  the  Scottish  familv  of  Hately,  tell  me  if  there  is  any  other  explanation  of 

who  bear  as  their  crest  an  otter's  head  erased,  these  letters   being   used    in   the   office   of 

Who  is  their  senior  representative  ?    How  do  baptism  than  that  usually  given,  viz.,  that 

thay  connect  with  the  Bethune  and  Balfour  N.  stands  for  name  (nomen),  and  M.  is  really 

pedi^^rees,  and  where  can  I  find   published  NN.,  the  double  letter  signifying  the  plural  ? 
particulars?            Neil  Wynn  Williams.  J.  A.  D. 

xr«,  «^^»„    rk„  ,„„      n  4.  11  [See  1"  S.  i.  415,  476 :  ii.  61 ;  iii.  323, 437 ;  a-**  S.  xii. 

Nelson  s  DEATH.-Can   any  one  tell .  me  204 ;  i^^  S.  xu.  204 ;  5'^  S.  vii.  80 :  xTsiS ;  7"»  S.  iii. 

how  it  came  to  pass  that  Mr.  W.  E.  Davis,  a  105,  217,  315,  417 ;  v.  513 ;  vi.  113.] 
conapetent  artist,  happened  to  be  on  board       ,,  ^  ^  .,    ^    ,«.,».  tt 

the  Victory  at  the  battle  of  Trafalgar,  and       "  Pamina  and  Tamino.' —  In  Goethe  s  *Hor- 

could   make  a    very    interesting  picture  of  mann   and    Dorothea,'  Hermann  complains 

Lord  Nelson's  death  in  the  cockpit  of  the  that  when  he  called  at  Minna's,  that  culti- 

ship  ?    The  picture  now  hangs  in  Greenwich  vated  family  talked  of  "Pamina  and  Tamino, 

Hospital,  and    the    well  -  known    engraving  a^a  laughed  at  him  for  a  clown  because  he 

taken  from  it  is  the  only  authentic  record  of  ^^^  not  understand  what  they  meant.    I  am 

the  sad  event.     The  scene  on  the  deck  by  i"   ^^e  same  strait.    What  did  they  meani 

West,  P.R.A.,  is  highly  theatrical,  and  not  If  Hermann  miscaught  the  names,  what  is 

true  to  what  really  happened.  the  correct  form  ?  F.  M. 

Alfred  Gatty,  D.D.  ^j^^  ^^^^^^  Steward. -In  the  BodV^vw^ 

Jean   le  Manique.  —  In  the   edition   of  (MSS.  BAw\.Poe>tiAAn^N^«t^W\\3L^<is^^^'C^^^ 

MoDstrolet's  *  Chivoiciew '  which   Smith,  of  of  poems  trom\aT\ou'a>a3abU^%>BiV^^^**^'^^^^ 


368 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»-» s.  vil  biay  ii.  m»l 


to  the  above.  He  is  supposed  to  have  been 
of  a  Northamptonshire  tamilv,  and  educated 
at  Cambridge.  Can  any  reader  give  me  the 
dates  of  his  oirth  and  death,  or  even  the  cen- 
tury in  which  he  flourished?  The  poem  is 
*  The  Faery  King/  and  it  has  been  suggested 
that  the  author  was  a  Sir  Edmond  Steward. 

Megan. 

Latin  Motto.  — In  H.M.S.  Defiance  (tor- 
pedo school  for  instruction  of  men  and 
officers  in  electricity,  wireless  telegraphy, 
<fec.)  there  appear  in  aiJBferent  situations  tnese 
two  variants:  "Scientia  fiducia  plenus  pro 
vocare,"  "Scientia  fiducia  plena  provocare." 
There  are  no  case-accents  or  stops.  Can 
any  one  give  me  a  translation,  parsing,  or 
parallel  of  either] 

Francis  J.  Odell,  Chaplain  R.N. 

,H.M.S.  Defiance. 

Canadian  Boat  Song.— 
From  the  dim  shieling  on  the  misty  island 

Mountains  divide  us  and  a  world  of  seas ; 
But  still  our  hearts  are  true,  our  hearts  are  High- 
land, 
And  in  our  dreams  we  see  the  Hebrides. 
Tall  are  those  mountains   and    those  woods   are 

grand; 
But  we  are  exiles  from  our  fathers'  land. 

There  must  be  a  peculiar  charm  about  a 
stanza  which  has  had  a  fascination  for  men 
of  so  diverse  temperaments  as  Norman 
Macleod,  Robert  Louis  Stevenson,  and  Mr. 
Chamberlain.  But  why  do  they  quote  it  as 
above  from  Sir  John  Skelton's  weakened 
version  of  the  song,  and  not  from  Lord 
Eglinton's  translation  as  given  in  TaiVs 
Aiagazine  for  1849,  p.  366?— 
From  the  lone  shieling  on  the  misty  island 

Mountains  divide  us  and  the  waste  of  seas  : 
But  still  the  blood  is  strong,  the  heart  is  Highland, 

And  we  in  dreams  behold  the  Hebrides. 
Fair  these  broad  meads,  these  hoary  woods  are 

grand ; 
But  we  are  exiles  from  our  fathers'  land. 

It  is  difficult  to  understand  why  Skelton 
should  have  thought  it  necessary  to  recast, 
and  by  each  change  to  spoil,  these  fine  lines. 
Where  was  his  version  printed  for  the  first 
time?  Is  the  supposed  Gaelic  original  as 
mythical  as  the  original  of  Macpnerson's 
Ossian  ?  P.  J.  Anderson. 

University  Library,  Aberdeen. 

SoMEESETSHiRE  Ballad.— Some  forty  years 
ago  a  friend  of  my  family  used  to  repeat  a 
ballad  commencing  "  From  a  nate  little  village 
in  Zummerzetshire,"  indicative  of  the  woes  of 
one  Tony  Lumpkin,  who  came  up  to  London 
to  And   his   uncle,  forgot    his    name,    but, 


where,  however,  the  occupant  refused  to 
acknowledge  kinship,  and  promptly  ejected 
him  on  hearing  that  he  had  come  up  because 
they  had  "all  got  the  raaasels  in  Zummerzet- 
shire." Can  any  of  your  readers  tell  nie 
where  this  ballad  may  be  found  % 

Algernon  Warren. 

Arms  of  Scotland.— On  20  February,  1471, 
Kin^  James,  with  advice  of  his  three  Estates, 
ordained  that  in  time  coming  there  should 
be  no  double  tressure  about  nis  arms  (*  Ex- 
tracts out  of  the  Unprinted  Books  of  Parlia- 
ment'). Did  this  take  effect!  I  cannot 
remember  ever  to  have  met  with  the  royal 
seal  minus  this  precious  charges  which  was 
the  emblem  of  the  ancient  league  with 
France,  from  whose  kings  it  was  a  gift  to 
the  kings  of  Scotland.  If  such  a  seal  was 
sunk,  it  is  well  it  did  not  endure,  for,  shorn 
of  the  beautiful  tressure  of  lilies,  the  blood- 
red  lion  rampant  on  his  field  of  gold  would 
lose  much  of  his  majesty,  considering  how 
many  other  heraldic  lions  are  on  the  prowl. 
Walter  M.  Graham  Easton. 

Ring  of  Elizabeth.— What  is  known  of  the 
ring  which  Elizabeth  gave  to  the  Earl  of 
Essex  1  The  accepted  one  is  of  sardonyx,  in 
the  possession  of  the  Thynne  family.  There 
was  another,  however,  a  rose  diamond,  claim- 
ing to  be  genuine.  Who  is  the  present  pos- 
sessor? A  family  tradition  says  that  the 
original  ring  was  in  the  possession  of  the 
Pulteney  family  towards  the  close  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  Can  any  one  throw 
light  upon  this?  W.  H.  Windle. 


Benjamin  Walker,  who  died  in  1764, 
married  (c.  1760)  Ann  Stackhouse.  He  was  ft 
member  of  the  Society  of  Friends,  and  lived 
at  Enfield.  She  was  known  in  London  fts 
**  Queen  of  Diamonds,"  because  of  her  beauty 
andvaluablediamonds.  She  married  her  second 
husband,  Mr.  John  Relph,of  St.  Botolph's,  Aid- 
gate,  a  rich  London  silk  merchant,  about  1766, 
Information  is  sought  (1)  as  to  the  familv  con- 
nexions of  Beniamin  Walker,  of  Enfield,  said 
to  be  descended  from  William  Penn  ;  and  (2) 
as  to  the  ancestors  of  Ann  Stackhouse,  who«^ 
father  was  John  Stackhouse,  Governor  of 
Bengal,  and  retired  in  1739. 

W.  H.  WiNDLfr 

Arbuthnott.— What  is  the  derivation  <rf 
this  word,  a  parish  in  Kincardineshire ;  ftod 
is  it  correctly  spelt  with  two  final  ^'s  or  only 
one?  The  viscount  of  that  name  uses  the 
double  letter,  while  the  baronet's  family  of 
the  same  name  use  the  single  letter,  both 


as  uncle  was  uncle,  asked  where  \\©  \WedAda.\m\TiatiCi  derive  their  name  from  theeMp 
and  waa  directed  into  a  pawubrokeT^B  aYiop^\\«A<di'ft.  VTi\Xi^^^tKi^^\^^ 


9*  8.  VIL  May  11, 1901.)        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


369 


as  reproduced  in  the  recently  published  county 
history  of  Aberdeen  by  Watt,  and  as  pro- 
fessedly copied  from  the  sjreat  Amsterdam 
atlas  of  1654  by  Blaeu,  who  was  the  original 
publisher  of  Gordon's  map,  the  name  appears 
with  one  final  t.  On  the  other  hand,  in  the 
map  of  *  Scotland,  c.  1600,'  No.  27  in  the 
Clarendon  Press  *  Historical  Atlas  of  Modern 
Europe'  (1898),  which  is  stated  to  have  been 
collated  with  Blaeu's  atlas,  the  word  is 
spelt  with  the  double  letter,  as  now  used  by 
the  Viscounts  Arbuthnott.  Both  as  to  the 
derivation  of  the  word  and  the  spelling  of  it 
there  has  long  been  controversy,  and  I  shall 
be  glad  if  any  one  can  give  intormation  if 
the  matter  has  been  authoritatively  decided, 
and  how.  G.  S.  F. 

Madras. 

The  Dukery.— Thoroton,  in  his  'History 
of  Nottinghamshire,'  frequently  refers  to 
Regist.  de  Wirks.  (see  p.  464).  I  shall  be 
thankful  if  any  reader  of  '  N.  &  O.'  can  sug- 
gest its  present  resting-place.  I  shall  also  be 
glad  to  be  reminded  ot  any  MSS.  or  other 
important  matters  (except  in  the  British 
Museum  and  Bodleian  Liorary)  referring  to 
any  place  in  the  Bukery,  as  I  have  a  quarto 
volame  in  the  press  on    Dukery  Records.' 

Robert  White. 

Worksop. 

Holden  Cruttenden.— I  should  be  glad  of 
any  particulars  concerning  Edward  Holden 
Cruttenden,  Deputy -Governor  of  Calcutta, 
who    married    in    1746    Elizabeth    Jeddere. 
Their  children  are  said  to  have  been  saved 
from  the   massacre  at  Calcutta  by  the  de- 
votion of  their  ayah,  and  their  portraits  by 
Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  were  exhibited  in  the 
Exhibition  of  Fair  Women  in  the  Grafton 
Gallery.    Was  this  Mr.  Holden  Cruttenden 
connected   with  the  Mr.  Holden    who  was 
^bout  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century 
Oo vemor  of  Calcutta  ? 

R.  Holden,  Lieut.-Col. 

Authors  of  Quotations  Wanted.— 
Life's  work  well  done, 
Life's  race  well  run, 
Life's  crown  well  won, 
Then  comes  rest. 

J.  P.  Stilwell. 
t Asked  &^  8.  xi.  349  and 7«»  S.  v.  22a    Unanswered.] 

I  've  lived  to  see^how  pride  may  part 

Spirits  thoujgh^ matched  like  hand  and  glove ; 
I  *ve  blushed  for  love's  abode,  the  heart, 
But  have  not  disbelieved  in  love. 

A.  B. 

"  Man  is   bound    to   expend    every  particle   of 

vtrongth  which  God  Almighty  has  given  him  in 

doing  the  work  he  finds  he  is  nt  for,  to  stand  up  to 

U  to  the  hmt  breath  of  life,  and  to  do  his  best.'' 


Presumably  bjr  Carlyle,  but  I  have  searched  many 
of  his  works  without  finding  it. 

James  T.  Pmsley. 

I  saw  a  Judas  once ; 
It  was  an  old  man's  face.   Greatly  that  artist  erred ; 
Judas  had  eyes  of  starry  blue,  and  lips  like  thine 

That  gave  the  traitor  kiss. 

Addy. 

(The  lines,  or  some  quite  similar,  are  in  the 
Lyceum  version  of  *  Charles  the  First,'  by  W.  G. 
Wills.]  

"BERNARDUS  NON  VIDIT  OMNL^": 
"BLIND  BAYARD." 
(9"»  S.  V.  356,  441,  506.) 
I  THANK  the  two  distinguished  writers  Prof. 
Skeat  and  Mr.  William  Canton  for  their 
answers  to  the  first  part  of  this  query.  The 
former  has  shown  that  the  "Bernard"  was 
the  famous  Abbot  of  Clairvaux,  and  the  latter, 
in  a  crisp  little  note,  has  given  the  **  story  " 
for  which  I  asked.  Mr.  Y ardley,  quoting 
from  Gibbon,  has  furnished  the  original 
Latin  version,  which  may  be  read  in  one 
of  the  contemporary  biographies  of  the  great 
mediaeval  saint  appended  to  the  sixth 
volume  of  Gaumes  complete  edition  of 
St.  Bernard's  works,  as  I  learn  from  Dr. 
Eales's  very  interesting  sketch  (*St.  Bernard, 
Abbot  of  Clairvaux,'  London,  1890).  From 
the  same  source  is  derived  a  similar  story, 
mentioned  by  Erasmus  in  his  ^Morise  En- 
comium,' a  translation  of  which,  entitled 
*Witt  aeainst  Wisdom,  or  a  Panegyrick 
upon  Folly,'  was  published  at  Oxford  in  16^, 
from  which  I  quote  the  following  words  : — 

"  From  such  ardour  of  Divine  meditation  was  it 
that  St.  Bernard  in  his  study  drank  Oyl  instead  of 
Wine,  and  yet  his  thoughts  were  so  taken  up,  that 
he  never  obleerv'd  the  mistake."— P.  150. 

It  seems  to  me  that  a  ** proverb"  might  as 
easily  have  been  founded  on  this  legend  as 
on  the  other,  such  as  "  Bemardus  monachus 
non  gustavit  omnia.,"  though  it  would,  to  my 
mind,  have  been  as  pointless  as  the  one 
written  in  the  margin  of  Chaucer's  poem. 
Without  pretending  to  be  a  Bentley  or  a 
Porson,  I  think  there  can  be  little  doubt  that 
some  young  monk,  working  in  the  scrip- 
torium of  a  monastery  situated  on  a  pleasant 
hillside  or  in  a  green  and  lovely  dale— 

Bemardus  valles,  colles  Benedictus  amabat— 
wrote,  in  a  moment  of  distraction,  the  word 
omnia  for  omnino.    This  supposition  would 
seem  to  be  amply  confirmed   by  Chaucer's 
own  vigorous  translation  of  the  sentence  :— 
Beruarde,  the  uvowVl©,  w^  «aA3L^  xva.\.  ^^\».x^si\*^ 


♦  0\o\>ft  ^dVXiVaa,  \>,  v:8fe« 


370 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9-»8.vil  mat  11.1901. 


nut  a-in  1  going  to  blame  tne  transcriber  tor 
his  aiipl  mij  y^v^fitol  absit !  a  bait !  As  in 
old  on  day  a  the  vestal  virgins  nourifsbed  the 
fire  which  they  fondly  deemed  to  be  eternal, 
so  did  the  cowled  brethren  keep  the  sacred 
lamp  o!  knowledge  burning  through  the 
ages  when  barbaria-n  hordes  invaded  and 
ravaged  the  lands,  and  hand  it  on  to  us  un- 
quencheti  If  we  assume  that  they  produced 
little  or  nothing  original  in  literature,  they 
were  most  certainly  the  faithful  custo^^iiana 
of  all  that  had  hithetto  been  given  to  the 
worlds  and  to  them  we  owe  a  debt  of  yuch 
infinite  value  that  it  can  never  be  repaid. 

Returning  to  the  first  part  of  the  querj*,  I 
may  say  that  1  thought  the  story  had  refer- 
ence to  Bt.  Bernard  or  Ciairvaux.  If  Thomas 
Xashhad  not  omitted  thewoi-d  *'monachuiH" 
and  if  the  Globe  edition  o!  Chaucer  had  been 
furnished  with  an  index  of  proper  names, 
which  its  editors  might  have  borrowed  from 
Prof.  Skeat,  to  whose  learned  labours  they 
are  so  much  indebted,  I  should  have  had  no 
doubt  as  to  the  identitjr  of  the  Bernard 
mentioned  by  the  mercurial  writer  whom  I 
quoted  ;  but  it  is  of  another  that  I  am  in 
search.  In  that  ancient  and  curious  poem 
entitled  *The  Turnaraent  of  Tottenham,' 
printed  in  Bishop  Percy^s 'Reliques,' I  find 
the  following  line  ;— - 

May  I  met-e  wyth  Bernard  on  Bayard  the  blynde, 
I  am  quite  aware  that  this  poem  is  considered 
to  be  "a  humorous  burlesque"  of  chivah-y, 
just  as  Chaucer*B  *Tale  of  Sir  Thopas'was 
written  in  ridicule  of  romance,  yet  I  take  it 
that  the  line  refers  to  some  old  atorj%  and 
therefore  ask.  Who  was  this  famous  warrior, 
and  when  and  where  did  he  bestride  the 
peerless  battle  -  horse  ?  I  have  somewhere 
read  of  a  **  Duke  Bernard  "  who  crossed  the 
Alps  whore  the  hospice  now  stands;  but  1 
have  been  unable  to  find  that  there  was  any 
one  of  the  name  among  the  paladins  and 
peers  who  flocked  to  the  Court  of  Charle- 
tuagne  to  learn  warfare  under  the  most 
renowned  leader  of  the  age.  In  his  *  Spanish 
Ballads^  Lockhart  says:  **0f  Bernardo  del 
Carpio  wo  find  little  or  nothing  in  the  French 
rom  ances  of  0  h  ar  1  eraagne* "  Ke  ver theless,  one 
in  tempted  to  believe  that  the  future  cham- 
pion of  his  country  may  have  Hervedl  in  his 
early  youth  under  the  banner  of  the  great 
emperor,  and  learnt  those  lessons  of  war 
which  he  afterwards  turned  with  such  terrible 
effect  against  the  Frankish  army  on  the  day 

When  Rowland  brave  &ud  Otivi^r, 

And  every  Paladin  atiil  Peer 

On  Rdnceavillea  dt&d,* 

,  *  I  quot^  the  lines  from  Lockhatt.bul  kkvet- 
si&n  diahra  from  that  given  in  Dt.  Sheppaird'i^Ttte 


If  he  wero  the  Bernard  (and  I  can  think 
of  no  other),  when  did  he  ride  the  iteed 
whose  history  is  one  of  the  wonders  of 
romance  ?  As  there  were  heroes  before 
Agamemnon,  so  no  doubt  there  were  famaujs 
battle- horses  before 

Baiardo,  quel  destrier  cho  non  ha  p&re, 

as  Ariosto  sings  (*  Orlando  Furiosoij'  xjtxL  90). 
For  example,  have  we  not  read  in  the  'Iliad ' 
(xix.  400-16)  of  the  immortal  horses  Balios 
and  Xanthos  (Dapple  and  Chestnut),  wliicli 
bore  their  master's  chariot  into  the  thickest 
of  the  fight  ?  Xanthos  is  the  ancient  Bayani 
as  the  word  may  very  well  bo  rendered,  ana 
was  more  famous  than  his  yokefellow  ;  for 
to  him  alone  was  given  the  power  of  speech, 
so  that  be  might  warn  AchUles  or  his 
ovei'shadowing  doom.  But,  as  we  know, 
the  impetuous  warrior,  caring  tiothin^  for 
"portents  and  prodigies,"  rushed  wildly. 
Miftdli/,  to  his  fate-  Though  little  acquaintdd 
with  hippology,  I  understand  that  animals 
of  a  bay  colour  have  always  been  held  in 
great  esteem  for  war^  because  they  are  strong, 
hardy,  and  spirited.  This  preference  seena 
to  be  justified  by  the  fact  that 

**  the  parent-stock  from  which  aU  the  varlettea  ire 
supposed  to  be  derived  is  renreaeTited  by  the  Equ^ 
Tahafhis,  whose  ori|final  habitat  a|>i>cars  to  hkvt 
bcou  in  Ceolml  Ahia,  where  bi^rds  of  wild  horm 
AtQ  Btill  to  ba  fouDd,  tnuAt  [of  them  of  &  reddiAli' 
brown  hue."* 

However  that  may  be,  I  prefer  to  think,  in 
the  spirit  of  romance,  that  it  was  from 
Xanthos,  the  offspring  of  Podai^e  ixd 
Zephyros,  that  Bayard,  Baiardo,  **Bayartfl, 
que  fue  el  (cabalio)  de  Reindldos  de  Moflt- 
alban  "  C  Don  Quijote,'  p.  ii.  c.  xh\  drew  hm 
descent.  He  was  the  most  w^onderfui  ^ 
horses,  without  an  equal  in  strength  and 
speed.  He  could  bear  not  only  one,  out  the 
four  sons  of  Aymon,  in  which  latter  case  he 
elongated  his  Dody,  so  that  he  might  cAtry 
the  quadruple  burden.  Of  one  of  tbe*^ 
journeys  SKelton  speaks  in  the  foUo^tng 
lines : — 

Of  aaarber  fyk  Amnnde 

An 4  how  they  were  Bommond 

To  Roriie  to  CharleMiayne 

UiKiti  a  groat  ijaynis 

Fall  of  Rome  and  the  Riae  of  tho  Ni^w  NiiioB' 
alities'  (London,  1861  )^  which  (p.  500)  nw*  »* 
foUowm  :  — 

Roknd  the  brave,  and  Olivier, 

And  m&nf  a  indaditi  and  peer. 

At  EoneenvalleH  died. 

Which  k  corr^tit,  and  from  what  poeni  it  it  t«^' 
•  My  authority  i«  the  'Oracle  EncydMw^ 


\ 


9»8.vilmavii.iwi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


371 


And  how  thej  rode  each  on^ 
Oil  Bayard  ifounUlbon.  • 

No  wonder,  therefore,  ia  it  that  his  praiHes 
were  smn^  by  the  miDstrela  when  they  visited 
the  baroaial  keeps  as  soon  an  the  snows  of 
winter  had  melted  away.  E\'cn  the  tears 
which  the  nobJe  animal  shed  when,  during 
the  facoinc  that  prevaOed  In  Renaud's  caatloj 
the  squires  opened  a  vein  and  drank  his 
blood,  were  celebrated  in  their  veraea.  In 
th&t  oUfi  podrida  of  Sou  they  *»,  that  "rxidin 
indigestaque  moles"  entitled  *The  Doctor; 
which   he   wrote  in    imitation    of   Burton's 

*  Ana  torn  y^  and  probably  looked  upon  &» 
vastly  sui>9rior  to  that  famous  book,  I  finci 
the  following  passage  :— 

**  Ho  waA  not  like  the  hercjic  horwe  which  Aaiodta 
won  in  the  lale  Perilous,  wbeo  in  his  old  age  be 
w»»  driven  tbjiber  by  &  tctiipeat,  though  the 
adventure  haa  be«ti  pretermit  ted  in  his  great 
hifll^ry.  After  the  death  of  that  old,  old,  very  old 
and  most  faoioua  of  all  knights,  this  horse  was 
Micbantcd  bv  the  magician  Alchiso,  Many  genera- 
tions tiiaaaeo  away  before  he  wa*  overcome  and 
disenohanted  by  Einaldo ;  and  be  then  became  so 
famous  by  his  weU-knowTi  name  Bajardo,  that  for 
the  sole  purpose  of  winning  this  horse  and  the 
sword  Dnrlindana,  which  w&s  as  famous  among 
8Words  a^  Bajardo  among  horses.  Gradasso  caiuc 
from  IndU  t^j  invade  Franco  with  an  army  of  an 
hundred  and  fifty  thousand  knights."— One- volume 
edition,  1848,  p,  367, 

Much  interesting  information  regarding  thi^ 

in  com  parable  steed  may  he  gathered   by  a 

careful  student  of  the  *^Carlovingian  cycle/' 

which,  acc43rding  to  M,  Demo^eot  (*Litteraturc 

Fran  9ai9e/ sixth  edition,  Pans,  18641  contains 

same  four  or  five  hundred  thousand  verses, t 

published  or  in  manuscript.     But  perbapn 

enough  has  been  said  to  justify  the  horse's 

£&me  without  the  need  of  undertaking  such 

a  gigantic  task,  for  which  I  have  neither  the 

leisure  nor  the  opportunity,  even  if  I  had 

the  Inclination. 

Now  ooraes  the  question  which  I  wish  to 
gat  to  the  learned  readers  of  *N,  &  Q*' 
Where  and  when,  before  Chaucer's  time,  la 
B&yard  described  an  **  blind  "  ?  What  autho- 
rity had  he  for  using  such  an  epithet  ?    All 

*  These  "br«&thtess'*  lines,  to  use  Biahon  Hairs 
^PPy  epithet*  I  quote  from  the  edition  of  ^KeJton'a 
'  Worku/  **  printed  for  C  Davis"  London,  1736.  It 
rnuHt  i>e  a  reprint  from  aome  early  copy,  one  would 
think,  aa  there  ia  scarcely  any  punctuation  except 
in  the  Latin  and  prose  portions. 

f  After  referring  to  the  "  gigantenque  pi^'^jot  de 
M.  Fortoul,'^  he  says  in  a  foot- note »  p.  xi :  **0n  salt 
c^ue  ce  miniatre  uvait  dos^sicin  de  faire  entrer  dans 
Un  vaate  recueil  tout  ee  itiii  a  fte  rini^'  an  moyen 
^e.  On  a  rest  rein  t  tiuiifJernent  son  plan  i  on  ae 
contenteira  de  pubtier  le  r^'i*'  fariovtnffisn^ 
seulemeiit  f^acUrt  ou  tiiiii  ei^it  mitlt  mrg/"  This 
WB0  written  in  1864.  How  much  of  the  plan  has 
bee0  carried  out  I  do  not  know* 


that  Bishop  Percy  can  give  is  this  in  one  of 
his  gloasanes  :  "Bayard,  a  not^  blind  hor^e 
in  the  old  romances,  which  is  of  no  a^jsistance, 
m  there  is  no  referenoa  I  can  find  nothing 
in  Archbishop  Turpin's  so-called  *  Chronicle,' 
which  Ariosto  pretends  to  follow,  that  can  be 
quoted  to  show  that  the  aniroaFs  vision  waa 
ever  destroyed,  or  thaL  notwithstandiug  his 
blindness,  he  was  able  to  perform  such 
roiracnlouH  feats,  A  blind  horse,  I  am  told, 
is  of  a  quiet  disposition,  and,  instead  of 
rushing  over  hedges  and  ditches*  would  stand 
still  and  tremble,  if  he  were  frightened. 
For  that  reason  he  wa"^  employed  for  purposes 
well  explained  in  the  line,  quoted  from 
Phillips  by  Johnson  in  his  great  dictionary, 

Blind  bayard  movca  the  njili. 
I  remember  visiting  more  than  fifty  years  ago 
a  coal  pit  about  seven  miles  from  Morpeth, 
that  pleasant  town  on  the  Wan  a  beck.  The 
mineral  was  brought  to  tlie  surface  by  a 
machine,  called  a  gin,  worked  by  a  horse 
which  went  round  and  r4>und  until  the  tub 
came  in  ^lew,  when  at  a  word  he  stopped 
and  the  banksman  tipped  the  content* 
into  a  acr^n.  It  was  a  nice  gentle  animal, 
but  I  felt  very  sorry  when  I  was  told  it  was 
blind. 

So  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  ascertain, 
Chaucer-s  epithet  originated  with  himself* 
and  the  proverbial  expression  "  blind  Bayard" 
would  seem  to  be  confined  t*i  our  language,  I 
can  find  no  trace  of  it  in  French,  Italian,  or 
Spanish,  where,  if  at  all  conmion,  one  would 
naturally  expect  to  meet  with  iL  The  poet's 
words  are  th^e  ; — 

Ye  lieen  aa  boold  as  la  Bayard  the  blynde, 
That  blondreth  forth  and  peril  caateth  noon. 
He  is  as  boold  to  renne  agayn  a  stoon, 
Aa  for  to  goon  bisid^s  in  the  weye.* 

I  take  it  that  the  steed  mentioned  is  no 
other    than    the   famous   Bayartl,  and   that 
the  epithet  "  blind  "  has  l>een  borrowed  from 
one  of  the  old  romances  in  which  the  horse^s 
amazing   swiftness   and    dexterity    in    sur- 
mounting obstacles  are  so  vivi*lly  described, 
that  the  spectator  might  well  have  fancied 
that  such  rapidity  of  motion  could  scarcely 
consist  with  perfect  vision.    The  following 
lines  from  Ariosto's  great    romantic    poem 
may  be  quoted  in  support  of  that  view  ;— 
L'  animoso  cavallo  urta  o  fracaaaa. 
Pun  to  dal  auo  signer,  ciu  ch^  e^ti  intoppa : 
Non  ponno  fosse  o  fiumi  o  Bosm  o  spine 
Far  tine  dal  i;orso  il  corridor  decline.    1 1,  xix. 

It  would  seem  clear  from  the  note  aiilej 
p.  lOG,  that  so  latci  as  1275  Bayard  was 
used    aa   a  praper  name  for  a   horse,    lt% 


•  G\Q\ia«iditwm>^*^29i, 


372 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      iB»8.viLMATn.Moi. 


emplovmenfc  aa  a  common  name  for  tiro 
animal,  and  its  applieation  to  man  in  the 
well-known  signification,  would  therefore' 
appfsar  to  date  from  Chaucer's  time,  and  in 
all  probability  are  based  upon  the  lines 
quoted.  There  may  be  doubtii  about  the 
formefi  but  there  can  be  none,  I  think,  a^j 
regard«s  the  latter  sense.  I  have  carefully 
read  Pfior,  Siceat  s  two  learned  notes  in  this 
series,  and  I  am  not  going  to  vex  him  by 
saying  that  every  "  bayard  "  must  be  of  a 
bay  colour,  but  I  certainly  contend  that  the 
famous  titeed  thonce  derived  bin  appollation, 
and  I  hope  lie  will  a^ree  with  me.  And  when 
8ir  Thomas  More  (whom  he  quotes),  T.  Nash, 
Joseph  Hall,  Robert  Burton,  and  others  use 
the  expression  ** blind  Bayards,"  as  the 
equivalent  of  ignorant,  rash,  anrl  presurup- 
tuou^  men— 

Fools  ruth  io  where  anj^tlfi  fear  to  tread— 
I  do  not  think  he  wUl  deny  that  they  derived 
their  inspiration  from  *'  our  English  Homer," 
as  Camden  calls  the  poet.  Burton's  use  of 
the  phrase  first  attracted  my  attention  to  it 
Rom©  years  ago.  Though  it  occurs  only  once 
in  bis  book,  I  have  no  doubt  he  drew  it 
directly  from  Chaucer,  whom  he  so  frequently 

Suotes.  *'What  are  all  our  AnabaptL«?ts, 
irownists,  Barrowists.  Fandlists,'*  he  cries, 
**  but  a  company  of  rude,  illiterate,  capritious 
base  fellowes  1  What  are  most  of  our  Papists, 
but  stupid,  i&norant,  and  blinde  bayanisl" 
('Anatomy  of  MelsnchohV  p,  678,  sixteenth 
edition,  London,  1836,)  Asala^t  word,  I  will 
i|uote  from  Bishop  H all's  masterpiece  of 
invective  entitled  'The  Honour  of  the 
Maried  Gler^ie,'  published  in  1620.  The 
learned  contributor  to  these  pages  sayi*  in 
the  first  volume  of  this  series  (p,  56)  that 
"  'a  blind  Bayard '  could  even  mean  a  mere 
man."  But  the  noun  without  the  acJjectivc 
aervcH  the  militant  bisbop^s  purpose  equally 
well '  "  This  Bayard  dares  say,"  p.  716  ;  again 
(p.  705)  we  rea*l  ■  "  A  truer  Bayard  did  never 
stumble  forth  into  the  Presse";  and,  lastly 
(p.  733) :  "  \VTiat  shall  we  say  then  to  this  bolH 
iJayardr*  {*The  Works  of  Joseph  HaU,  B, 
of  I^orwicli,'  London,  1647.)  I  think  one  or 
two  of  these  t|uotations  deserved  a  place 
among  those  given  in  Dr,  Murray's  '  Dic- 
tionary^ in  the  article  upon  the  word  under 
discussion.  However,  these  notes  were  not 
penned  for  any  such  purpose. 

John  T.  Cuhuy. 


Almanack,  1848.'  The  frontispiece  is  an 
angel  walking  among  flowere,  and  carrying 
a  garland.  Unfortunately  a  child  coloured 
tfie  margin,  m  that  I  cannot  make  out 
the  small  printing  at  the  top  and  bottoaa 
of  the  page.  There  follow  two  pages  ginng 
the  birthday H  of  the  roral  family  (18) 
and  two  total  eclipses  of  the  moon-  After 
some  pa^es  for  memoranda,  the  pages  are 
divided  into  two  columns,  a  page  for  each 
month.  The  Sundays,  saints'  aaya,  quartera 
of  the  moon.  Cambndge  and  Oxford  Terms, 
and  a  few  other  special  events  are  given. 

Opnoaite  each  month  there  are  iDustratiotis 
of  a  bird  and  a  flower,  with  an  account  of, 
or  some  poetry  about,  them  —  for  instancy 
opposite  January  there  are  the 

TUftUHlL  WALUFMiWElL 

The  Thrush  iu  known  Lovely  flower  I 

by  the  fulnees  and  deaJ--  Thy  bk;«FciTnsBmil^ where 
nesa  of  its  note,  and 
charrtiH  uii  by  the  sweet- 
nc^  and  variety  of  its 
aoiig^,  which  begini  early 
in  the  spring. 


pomp  h^s  fkai^ed  away, 
Breathing    their    hklmf 

frn^ance  o*or  d©(*y» 
Ub  Bering   minforliue^ 

hoar. 

M.  Ellen  Poole. 


*Hmou    Almanack*  (£»'•'  S.    vii,    207), —  I 
cannot  answer  the  query,  but  I  have  a  liook 

/jeaWj  1}  in,  lon^  by  1  in»  wido,  bound  \u  ViW^    ^.  ..^ ^  _  .^ ^,  ^ 

tiilk,  0o  which  im  stamped  m  gold  '■Bt^ou\ou©*aCtWVlAamm\\^  fm^ 


AkaK«r,  Chciflhirc* 

John  JoNi^  tub  Ebgicids (D*"*  S.  viL  243)- 
He  wm  son  of  Thomaa  ap  John,  or  Jonw,  by 
Ellen,  daughter  of  Robert  Wynn  ap  Jevwi, 
of  Taltrenadyn,  and  w&s  born  at  MamP 
Garnedd,  co.  Merioneth.  By  his  parents  ne 
was*  sent  to  London  to  learn  a  trader  and 
acted  as  fiervant  to  Lord  Mayor  Bir  Thomfti 
Middletou.  When  the  Civil  War  broke  oat 
be  joined  the  Parliamentary  army,  being  firtt 
captain.^  but  from  lCi46  colonel  oi  foot^  He 
was  returned  M.P,  for  Merionethshire  at  • 
by-election  in  September,  1647,  and  retained 
the  seat  until  the  forced  diasolution  of  Aprili 
1653.  Having  been  for  some  time  activelj 
employed  in  Ireland,  he  waa  rewarded  in 
April,  1648,  by  a  Parliamentary  grant  of 
1,000/,  for  hia  '*  great  servicer  *'  in  the  aster 
isle.  The  same  year  he  was  nominated^  cm 
oi  the  Parliamentary  Committee  for  Nortli 
Walen  and  Governor  of  Cheater.  For  hw 
share  in  the  reconquest  of  Anglesea  he  i^ 
coived  the  thanka  of  the  Honae,  and  oe 
21  October,  164S,  was  voted  2,000^.  on  aooonnl 
of  his  arrears  of  pay.  He  wa:!i  one  of  the  king'^ 
judge^a,  being  present  upon  eveiy  oceftstoo 
when  tbe  Court  Bat^  and  signed  the  warrtst 
for  execution.  He  wa«  nominated  a  meinbff 
of  the  Goldsmiths' Hall  Ct^mmittee  of  Com* 
pounding  in  Dcecmber,  104B  ;  was  one  of  Utf 
Committee  to  take  the  Engagement  in  Oeto- 
l^er,  KJ4&J  a  Commi«sioner  in  the  Act  for  tbe 
^Tov^^^^^^  ^^  ^^^  Gospel,  Februarj%  16Wi 


\^ 


9-»8.viLMAyii.i90i.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


373 


ticesj  June,  1650;  and  one  of  the  Oom- 
mbsionem  named  in  the  Act  of  Inrlemnity, 
September,  1650»  He  was  added  to  the  Com- 
mittee of  the  Army  1  January  ^  1652,  He  waa 
a  member  of  the  Council  of  State  in  the  first 
and  secsond  years,  February,  1649,  to  1651 .; 
ami  one  of  four  Commtg^ionei's  sent  to  aajiist 
the  Lord  Deputy  in  managing  the  civil  affairs 
of  Ireland,  July,  I6rx),  in  which  post  he  con- 
tinued until  1654— an  office  he  is  swtid  to  have 
executed  with  great  tyranny,  pei-^ecuting  all 
who  were  opposed  to  hia  own  view8*  To  the 
Cromwellian  Parliament  of  lti56-8  he  waa 
returned  by  both  the  counties  of  Denbigh 
and  Merioneth,  but  preferred  his  native 
countv.  Although  a  brother-in-law  to  Crom- 
well,  his  republican  views  made  him  by  no 
meane  favourable  to  the  Protectorate.  He 
waa,  however,  nominated  one  of  UromwelPs 
"Other  House"  in  1657,  and  appointed 
Governor  of  Anglesea,  On  2  June,  1657,  a 
Bill  was  ordered  to  be  brought  in  to  give  hira 
lands  in  Ireland  in  satisfaction  of  3,002/,, 
his  arrears  of  pay.  Upon  the  return  of  the 
Kump,  in  May,  1659,  he  waa  nominated  on 
the  Committee  of  Safety  7  to  15  May,  and  on 
19  May  one  of  the  Council  of  State.  On 
7  June  he  was  one  of  five  Commisaioners  sent 
to  replace  Henry  Cromwell  in  the  govern- 
ment of  Ireland,  and  was  also  commander  of 
the  Irish  forces.  He  supported  Ludlow 
against  the  Parliament,  for  which,  on  13  De- 
cern ber»  he  wae  arrested  in  Dublin  Caatle  by 
the  officers  of  Monk*s  party  ;  and  on  19  Janu- 
ary, 1600,  the  powers  formerly  given  to  hira 
in  IrelaDd  were  suspended  by  order  of  the 
House,  and  he  was  summoned  to  Parliament 
to  answer  impeachment  of  high  treason.  At 
the  Hestoration  he  was  one  of  the  regicides 
who  were  totally  excepted  from  the  Act 
of  Pardon  and  Oblivion  ;  w&h  arrested  in 
London  2  June,  1660  ;  tried  and  sentenced 
to  death  12  October  following  j  and  executed 
U  Charing  Cros-s  17  October  with  all  the 
liorrors  associated  wit  It  the  sentence  for  high 
treason.  CoL  Jones  was  twice  married  :  first 
to  Margaret^  daughter  of  John  Edwards,  of 
Dcnbignshirs  (she  died  in  Dublin  in  1651) ; 
secondly,  to  Cromwell's  sister  Jane^  the  widow 
of  Roger  Whetstone.  He  is  said  to  have  been 
ancestor  of  William  Jones,  Deputy-Governor 
of  Newharen.  who  died  there  17  October, 
1766,  aged  eignty-two.  I  may  add  that  Coh 
Jones  was  wd  one  of  Crom  weirs  major- 
generals,  W.  D,  Pink. 
LfOWton,  NtiwIctn-le-Willowa,  Lantfl^hire. 

A  short  life  of  the  above  i^  in  Noble*s 
*  Memoira  of  the  House  of  Cromwell/  vol.  ii. 
p*  213^  which,  according  to  a  note^^  is  ''chfeliy 
takan  from  ^elivm  of  tho  Frot^tot  Oliver,  i 


Thurloe's  *  State  Papers,*  the  trials  of  the 
regicide%  and  Mr*  Pennant's  *  Journey  to 
8nowdon/  John  Radcliffe. 

Sir  Clement  Scucamore  (9"^*  S,  vii.  269). 
— His  residence,  marriage,  place  of  burial, 
and  particulars  of  his  family,  from  the  parish 
registers  of  St,  Mary,  Alderman  bury,  are 
given  in  the  *  London  and  Middlesex  Note- 
Book/  London^  1892,  pp.  101, 201,  I  am  aware . 
this  IS  no  reply  to  the  question,  but  it  may 
be  useful  Everaki>  Home  CoLEMArr. 

71,  Br6*ikncKik  Boad. 

On  referring  to  my  copy  of  Mr.  Cokaync*s 
*Lord  Mayors  and  Sherifis  of  London,  1601- 
1625;  I  find  that  I  have  added  in  M8,  at 
pp,  27-28  (inUr  alia)  that  this  sheriff  was  a 
**  Vintner,'*  and  "poHsibly  son  of  William 
Scudamore  of  London,  Ironmonger,  by  his 
wife  Agnes,  da.  of  Henry  Mopted  of  Ijondon, 
and  born  cirm  1553."  W.  L  E.  V, 

**The  iKJWER  OF  the  doq*'  (9^  S.  vii,  106, 
172),— An  allusion  to  St.  John^a  Gospel  occurs 
in  Hoby's  translation  of  Castiglione's  *  Book 
of  the  Courtier,'  1551,  at  p.  187  of  the  "  Tudor 
Translations,"  edition  1900,  "Capitain  Molart 
requiringe  Peralta  to  sweare  whether  he  had 
about  hira  any  Saint  Johnes  Gosspell  or 
charm  and  inchauntraente,  to  preserve  him 
from  hurt."  In  the  original  it  is  merely 
"  brevi  o  incanti,''  bk.  ii,  cap*  80. 

R.  D,  WiujoN. 

"Lattbrmint"  (9^^  S,  vii.  207),— In  the 
new  complete  edition  of  Keats  (Glasgow, 
Go  wans  i  Gray),  at  present  in  course  of 
publication,  the  word  is  printed  with  a 
hyphen,  **  latter  -  mint,"  Mr.  H.  Buxton 
Forman,  the  editor,  states  that  Keats  wrote 
*' early  "  and  cancelled  it  substituting  "latter." 

W.  E.  WlLBOET, 
Hawick. 

The  "  iatter-mint,"  or  a  later  kind  of  mint^ 
as  the  '  Century  Dictionary '  explains  it,  is 
probably  the  same  as  the  mountain -mint,  or 
calamint,  a  pei'ennial  plant  which,  accord- 
ing to  Gerai-dls  *  Herlmll '  (Lond  ,  fol.,  1636), 
"nourishes  almost  all  the  yejire  thorough: 
it  bringeth  forth  ttoures  ami  seed  from  June 
to  Autumne'^  (v,  Lv.^  p.  688).        H.  Kjiebs, 

Oxford. 

"  Mary's  CriArPEL^'  (B*-^  S.  vii.  168,  275).— 
The  interesting  old  church  of  St.  Mary  of 
the  Greeks,  Hog  Lane^  Soho,  t(j  which  Mr. 
Edward  Herok- Allen  alludes,  was  built  in 
1676  by  Georgeirenes,  Archbi«%ho!^  o£  ^ew^^m^ 
but  was  alter  ward's  cc>iv\ct^/^  \VkXA  %.  ^^^*?5^^- 
not  chapi\.    It*  ^ba  >M\\Ti54p\*V\i'^wii  ^^^  ^3(ckn^- 


374 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (9*  s.  vil  may  u.  iwt 


pied  that  it  was  introduceti  by  Hogarth  into 
nia  famoua  picture  *  Noon**  This  relic  of  old 
London  was  demolished »  in  order  to  make 
way  for  *^  modern  improvements,"  during  the 
summer  of  1898.  Habby  Hem8, 

[A  long  artiele  on  the  Greek  Church  in  Soho 
appeared  ^  S^  it.  2,] 

AtJTHOR  OF  Ybeses  Waktbd  (9^  S.  vii.  228, 
315,  358).— Me.  Cubby  may  like  to  see  the 
cjoraplete  verses  on  (^ueon  Elizabeth  in  the 
*  Example  Book,'  wbich  are  as  follows  :— 

SpainiB  HcMli  RomiH  Ro^in^  natberlandis  Eelief, 
heavinis  jenii  erthis  jo>%  world  is  wotidert  nattiriii 
chief. 

A  bodie  chast,  a  werteu's  mytid, 

A  tempoht  toDgi  a  hu^mhlad  hart, 

8ecrit  and  wy«,  faithfull  and  kyndj 

Trew&  with  put  gyll,  njyld  without  airt, 

A  friend  to  poaice,  a  fo  to  stryf, 

A  aiJDtlea  maid,  $.  matchleii  wyf. 

B.  K.  L. 

KlCHABD      UeRNE,     ShEBIFF     OF     LoHDOK, 

1618-10  (9*-^  S,  vii.  309)."A  MS.  note  in  my 
copy  of  Mr.  Cakayne*«  *Lord  Slayora  and 
Sheriffs  of  London,  1601-1625;  states  that 
this  sheriff  was  a  *"  Merchant- Taylor.'*  It  is 
singular  that  the  tiames  of  the  two  sheriffs  m 
well  as  that  of  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London 
(my  ancestor)  of  thia  year  began  with  H, 

W.  L  IL  V. 

''  Wmm  "-Home  (9*^  S,  vii.  286).— Although 
"whom"  continually  greets  the  ear  in  tiie 
west  of  England,  it^  employment  as  a  rime 
is  perhaps  unusual  enough  to  deserve  record. 
A  very  quaint  epitaph  of  1686,  which  I  noted 
at  Church illn,  Somerset,  some  years  ago,  con^ 
tains  the  sturdy  injunction  i — 

And  wb«)B  thy  dying  da-y  ia  come 
Goe  like  the  luaii  y^  h  walking  whonic. 

Chas.  Gillman* 
Church  Fields,  Salisbury, 

Powdering  Gowk  (9^  S.  vii.  268).— Powder- 
ing cupboards  are>  I  believe,  to  be  found  in 
houses  of  the  late  seventeenth  and  early 
eighteenth  centuries.  The  person  whose  hair 
was  to  be  powdered  sat  within  arrayed  in 
powdering  gown,  tlie  object  of  wVjich  wa>i,  of 
course,  to  prevent  soiling  of  the  clothes.  If 
I  raistake  not,  T  have  seen  a  powdering  cup- 
board at  Little  Dean  Hall  on  the  homers  of 
the  Forest  of  Dean,  near  New^nham,  the  old 
seat  of  the  Pyrke  family. 

Lionel  Cbk.hhwkll. 

Wood  Hall,  CalverUy,  Yorka, 

Is  this  a  misprint  for  "  iMtndering  gown  '^  ? 

i/ia^e  some  recollection  of  my  in  other  saying    Tnrley,  Gloiic.  ;  High  Sheriff  of  Glo1lcesti^ 

tJmt  on  an  occasion  when  she  was  a  ?^m,  at\H\\\TO  W  Mvd  43  Queen  Eliiw^Wth  ;  died  1601 

the  begiamug  of  last  century,  sVx©  ^sit  m  XietX^'^  maxw^  "^^x*  ^^^^i^^j^^V^^^^bter  of  6^ 


''nightcap"  and  "ponder  gown"  to  think 
the  matter  over.  She  did  not  explain,  but  I 
understood  she  meant  a  bedgown, 

Thos.  Ratcuffr 

T  think  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 

"  powdering  gown  ^'  mentioned  by  yowr  cor- 
respondent at  the  above  reference  was  a 
gown  or  wrapper  (probably  of  cotton  or 
linen)  in  which  one  sat  to  have  the  hair 
powdered.  Many  old  mansions  contain  s 
chamber  known  as  "the  powdering  room" 
or  "  powdering  close t»"  specially  intended  for 
such  use.  W.  I.  R.  V, 

WOECESTEBSHIRE  FoLK-LOBK  (9**'  S.  vi.  410^ 

496  ;  vii.  54,  255).— By  the  "busk  "  of  Indian 
corn  Ibaov4  of  course^  means  the  <^ntrsi, 
husky  spike,  core,  or  "cob"  in  which  the 
gi-ain  is  bedded.and  not  the  '*  husk  "  properly 
so  called,  which  is  the  onter  wrappage  com* 
spending  to  the  **chaJff"  of  orriinary  gma 
About  twenty  years  ago  I  heard  the  principal 
farmer  of  C bateau nenf  relate  how  he  had  re- 
ceived anonymously  by  post  a  large  rabbit's 
tail  in  a  matchbox^  which  he  made  out  to  h&n 
been  sent  by  a  former  boon  companion,  lod 
which  he  forthwith  reciprocated  with  a  tcttd 
I  did  not  gather  that  any  particular  meaatng 
attached  to  these  sendings,  but  that  tbey 
were  mere  exuberances  of  rustic  wit  Her? 
is  one  from  Central  America :  '  Incident"?  of 
Travel  in  Central  America,  Chiapas^  *iw 
Yucatan,'  by  John  L.  Stephens,  vol  ii., twelfth 
edition  (London,  John  Murray,  1846,  p.  365)'— 

'*Don  Sanliagw  aent  me  a  farewell  letter,  ca^ 
elosing,  according  to  the  custom  of  the  comitrv,  i 
piece  of  silk,  the  meanitipt  of  which  1  did  not  mniMJ 
fltaod,  but  learned  that  it  was  meant  aa  a  pledfte  « 
friendship,  which  I  reciprocated  with  a  i>etikiiifc 

The  letter,  in  the  appendix,  p,  41%  reads  :- 
**I  fiend  you,  together  with  my  gratitndi  ww 

affection,  thia  raw  ailk  from  the  miaa  to  k«ep'^ 

niy  sake." 

Raw  filatures  are  used  in  different  cere- 
monies in  different  countries,  Kast  and  W#i^ 
implying  the  wish  that  a  long  and  happy  life 
may  be  spun  out.  Thomas  J.  JiASEi^ 

FRANcm  Throomoeton  (9*^'  S.  vii.  B&,  iW 
was  probably  a  son  of  Anthony  Throct^ 
morton,  who  was  the  second  son  of  Sir  ThflS* 
Throckmorton,  of  Coas  Court  and  Tortwortii, 
Gloucestershire,  Knt.,  and  his  wife  MargAftt, 
daughter  and  heir  of  Thos,  WhittingtoOi 
Esq.,  lord  of  npton,  Gloacestarahire. 

Sir  Thomas's  eld^t  son  was  Sir  Thflst 
Throckmorton,  of  Coss  Court,  Toi-t worth,  mw 


9»&vu.mayii,ii»l]       notes  and  queries. 


376 


Rxibert  Berkeley,  of  Sfcoke,  Knfc.;  and  secondly 
a  daughter  of  8ir  Edward  Eogers*  Is»ue  by 
first  wife  ;— 

1,  Sir  Wm.  Throckmorton^  created  baronet 
161 L 

2.  Elizabeth,  married,  February,  1611,  Sir 
Tho«,  Dale,  sometime  Governor  of  Virginia. 
Lad}'  Dale  died  1640,  leaving  no  iasue;  an 
extract  from  her  will  is  given  in  Brown*s 
'Geneaifl  of  the  United  States/  She  gave 
to  Mrs,  Dorothea  Throgmorton  her  lands  in 
Charles  Hundred,  Virginia,  and  to  the  son  of 
Richard  Kanby  her  lands  in  Shirley  Hundred, 
One  half  her  estate  in  England  and  Virginia, 
after  payment  of  her  deb t^  and  legacieft,  she 
mve  to  the  children  of  her  brother.  Sir  Wm* 
Throgmorton,  Knt.  and  Baronet,  deceased. 
She  gave  her  nephew  John,  the  Lord  Viscount 
Scudamore,  a  ring,  valued  at  drty  pound Ji 
sterling. 

3,  Mary,  married  first  Sir  ThoM.  Basker- 
viUe,  general  of  the  English  army  in  Picardy ; 
he  died  1597;  secondly,  Sir  James  Scud  amore, 
knighted  for  valour  at  the  siege  of  Calais, 
M*R  for  Herefordshire  1  James  1.  Their 
son  John  Scudamore,  of  Holme  Lacey,  Here* 
fordshire,  created  baronet  1620,  M.P.  co.  Here* 
ford  1620  and  21  James  I. ;  created  Baron  of 
Dromore  and  Viscount  Scudamore  of  Sligo 
by  letters  patent  2  July,  l^i9;  ambassador 
to  France,  &c, 

I  am  at  a  loss  to  account  for  ^^my  Lady 
Throckmorton,  my  half-sister."  As  I  do  not 
know  the  name  of  Francis  Throgmor ton's 
mother,  it  seems  probable  that  Anthony 
Throckmorton  was  her  second  huslmnd,  and 
that  her  daughter  by  her  first  hu^^band  was 
the  second  wife  of  Sir  Thos.  Throckmorton 
of  Coss  Court ;  see  above, 

C,   WiCKLIKFE  ThEOCKMOETOH, 
New  York. 

In  the  *  Records  of  the  English  Province, 
S.J,,'  compiled  by  the  late  Brother  Foley, 
S.J,,  there  is  a  gowi  deal  about  the  Throg- 
mortoDs,  which  may  interest  those  who  are 
seeking  information  concerning  the  family. 

Mangnlore, 

"Twopenny  Tubk"  (9^^  g.  vii.  29,  116).— 
There  is,  I  believe,  no  shadow  of  doubt  that 
Uie  claim  to  the  invention  of  thiss  term 
belongs  to  Mr,  H.  Devey  Browne.  Towards 
the  end  uf  June  last  year  Mn  Browne  told 
me  he  was  about  to  pay  a  private  visit  to 
the  Central  London  Railway,  and  asked  me 
whether  a  note  or  short  article  thereon  would 
be  welcomed  by  the  Lo^ndonary  a  journal  in 
which  I  was  much  interested.  The  o0er  was 
cordially  accepted,  and  i  remember  well,  in 


seeing  the  title  at  the  head  of  the  MS,,  being 
struck  by  its  absolute  newness.  Mr.  Browne 
explained  it  by  saying  that  he  found  the 
train  ran  in  a  kinil  of  tube^  and  tliat  he 
understood  the  fare  was  to  l>e  twopence  for 
any  and  every  distance.  The  article  duly 
appeared  in  the  issue  of  30  June  (a  copy  of 
which  I  encloseX  and  was  com  men  te*!  upon 
in  the  next  number  of  Pumh,  who  refen^ 
to  the  Londfmer'9  calling  the  Central 
London  Railway  the  Twoiienny  Tube.  The 
railway  was  not  open  to  the  public  until 
about  a  month  after  this.  When  it  was 
opened  the  Daih/  Mail  took  up  the  term,  and 
it  was  soon  general.  But  I  think  nobody 
can  point  to  it  in  print  before  the  article  in 
the  timdoner  of  30  June ;  and  as  Mr.  Browne 
assures  me  that  the  title,  like  the  rest  of  his 
article,  was  his  own  work,  I  think  his  claim 
to  its  invention  is  indisputable. 

A.   B.  HORHE, 
**QlTol>   NON   FECERUNT   BAnBAHl   FECERUKT 

Barbkiiini"  (9*^'  S.  vii.  246).'-In  one  of  his 

*  Letters  from   Italy/  written    in    1T40,   De 
Brosses  says : — 

"  Pope  Urban  VI IL  has  been  much  &bti§ed  for 
having  carried  aff  the  bronze  from  the  portico  aod 
rtKif  of  the  bQilding.  *  Quod  non  feoer©  Barl^rit 
fecere  Barb&ririi.'  But  was  it  not  worth  taking 
thtfi  bronze  in  order  to  make  the  great  BaUkquino 
of  *St.  Peter^B  and  the  Hit^h  Altar,  which  are  the 
finest  thingB  of  their  kind  extant* 

In  the  first  edition  of  Murray's  *  Handbook 
to  Rome,*  1843,  the  following  passage  occurs  : 

^^Urban  VIII.  (Batberini)  stripiied  the  Pantheon 
of  the  bron/je  plates^i  which  bad  oacaped  the  ]jI tinder 
of  the  Emperor  Conittans  11.  in  the  seventh  century, 
to  eonatrtn^t  the  baldaochino  of  St*  Peter^i,— an  act 
immort^ilised  by  Pa^^jnir)  in  a  saying  which  has  now 
Alznont  become  a  proverb,  '  Quod  tion  fecenmt 
Barbaric  fecere  Earbenni.'" 

"  Boug]£es  "  :  *'BuGfiiEB  "  (9**^  S.  vii.  148).— 

*  N.  k  Q./  5^^  S,  V,  445,  contains  a  long  article 
by  the  late  Cuthbirt  Bkive  on  the  word 
*^*  buggy/'  and  the  different  senses  in  whit^h 
it  has  been  used,  with  three  references  to 
the  etymology  of  the  word  *'bug." 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 

71  j  Brecknock  Road, 

St.  Clemekt  Bxsm  (9**»  K  vii.  64,  173,  274). 
—With  reference  to  Col.  pRiDEAUx'a  valuable 
note  at  the  la*it  reference  on  the  connexion 
between  St*  Olaf  and  the  8L  Clement, 
"patron  of  seamen,"  who  was  identical  with 
Pope  Clement  I.,  may  I  venture  to  suggest 
that  the  key  to  the  mystery  may  be  found  in 
the  following  facts  1 

I,  That  PopeX\e«ieut\.^\^^V\E^>3^\\\^^^^^^ 
to  and  marly  tdom  vX  ¥^etw\  xu  ^^  v^tv^sns*^ 


376 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9*8.vilmatu.i«oi. 


was  connected  with  the  ancient  Dacia.  and 
that  this  word  was  also  applied,  as  by  Adam 
of  Bremen,  to  designate  Dania  or  Denmark. 

2.  That  the  Northmen  who  had  invaded 
Russia  under  Rurick  in  862  a.d.,  and  who  had 
settled  at  Kief,  had  long  been  in  communica- 
tion with  the  Crimea,  and  would  be  led  to 
apply  St.  Clement's  legend  to  their  more 
familiar  Denmark. 

3.  That  the  basilica  of  St.  Clement  was,  pre- 
vious to  its  destruction  by  Robert  Quiscard 
in  A.D.  1085,  one  of  the  most  conspicuous 
buildings  in  Rome,  and  that  the  trescoes 
which  adorn  it— dating  from  a.d.  863  in  the 
pontificate  of  Nicholas  I.,  who  was  the  con- 
temporary of  Ansgar,  Bishop  of  Hamburg, 
one  of  the  earliest  Christian  missionaries  to 
Scandinavia— nearly  all  relate  to  saints  such 
as  Cyril  and  Methodius,  who  were  connected 
with  the  Christianization  of  the  Slavonic 
countries ;  to  St.  Clement  himself,  whose 
martyrdom  at  Cherson  is  represented  :  and 
to  St.  Andrew,  the  patron  of  Scotland  and 
Russia. 

In  other  words,  the  basilica  was  evidently 
as  much  the  church  of  the  Northern  visitors 
to  Rome  as  San  Luigi  dei  Francesi  is  the 
French  church,  or  San  Giovanni  dei  Fioren- 
tini  that  of  the  Florentines.  Hence  San  Cle- 
mente  would  be  as  familiar  a  name  to  the 
Scandinavian  nations  as  St.  Augustine  or 
St.  Gregory  was  to  the  English,  and,  given 
the  dovhle  entente  between  Dania  and  Dacia, 
I  think  the  connexion  both  with  St.  Olaf 
—who,  with  St.  Magnus,  as  Col.  Prideaux 
points  out,  is  one  of  the  two  specially  Scan- 
dinavian saints  commemorated  in  London 
dedications — and  with  St. Clement  Danes  mav 
be  accounted  for.  I  may  add  that  Murray^s 
*  Guide  to  Kent'  states  that  St.  Clement's, 
Sandwich,  is  on  the  site  of  a  Roman  cemetery. 
Local  guide-books  state  St.  Clement's  at 
Hastings  to  have  been  dedicated  a.d.  1046, 
in  the  time  of  Pope  Clement  II.  The  other 
saints  commemorated  in  the  Roman  frescoes 
include  St.  Vitus,  who  is  patron  of  Saxony 
(the  country  of  Ansgar),  Silesia,  and  Bohemia. 
'  St.  Andrew  himself  is  said  to  have  preached 
at  Kief.  H. 

The  Bellman  (9"»  S.  vi.  350,  417,  471 ;  vii. 
75). — Hazlitt  has  a  charming  little  essay  on 
*The  Letter-Bell '  in  the  volume  published  as 
*'  Sketches  and  £ssays,'now  first  collected  by 
his  Son,"  1839,  and  reissued  in  1852  under  the 
twofold  title  *  Men  and  Manners :  Sketches 
and  Essays.'  The  work  is  a  vaned  miscellany, 
consiBiing  of  articles  supplied  to  the  Scots 
Magazine   and   other  publications  \>etvje«itv 


New  Books,'  bears  to  have  been  written  at 
Florence  in  Mav,  1825,  and  is  thus  one  of 
the  literary  products  of  the  continental  trip 
following  on  the  author's  second  marriaee. 
There  is  nothing  to  show  the  date  or  the 

Slace  of  writing  in  the  case  of  *  The  Letter- 
iell ' ;  but  it  has  literary  and  descriptive  fasci- 
nation, and  it  characteristically  enshrines  a 
picturesque  feature  of  London  life  in  the 
early  nineteenth  century.  The  sound  of  the 
bell  recalls  to  the  writer  bis  duties  as  a 
correspondent,  and  prompts  the  reflection 
that  he  has  interests  tar  from  the  metropolis, 
which  had  threatened  to  engulf  him  after 
settling  in  it  from  country  parts.  The  essayist 
proceeds : — 

"  This  sound  alone,  startling  me  with  the  recollec- 
tion of  a  letter  I  had  to  send  to  the  friends  I  hid 
lately  left,  brought  me  as  it  were  to  rojself,  made 
me  feel  tnat  I  nad  links  still  connecting  me  with 
the  universe,  and  gave  me  hope  and  patience  to 
persevere.  At  that  loud- tinkling,  interrupted  sound, 
the  long  lino  of  blue  hills  near  the  place  where  I 
was  brought  up  waves  in  the  horizon,  a  golden 
sunset  hovers  over  them,  the  dwarf -oaks  rustle 
their  red  leaves  in  the  evening  breeze,  and  the  road 
from  Wem  to  Shrewsbury,  by  which  I  first  set  oat 
on  mjr  journey  through  life,  stares  me  in  the  face 
as  plain,  but  from  time  and  chan^  not  less  visionanr 
and  mysterious  than  [^]  the  pictures  in  the  'Pil- 
grim's Progress.' " 

Hazlitt  indulges  in  several  interesting  variA- 
tions  on  his  theme,  incidentallv  mentioning 
the  "  scarlet  costume  "  of  the  bellman,  and  the 
fact  that  the  official  went  his  rounds  when 
the  author  was  on  the  point  of  dining  or 
preparing  to  spend  the  evening  at  the  theatre. 
The  essay  closes  with  a  bright  and  vigorous 
description  of  what  struck  the  writer  as  the 
finest  sight  in  London— the  display  of  the 
mail  coaches  setting  off  from  Piccadilly. 

Thomas  Bayne. 

Nell  Gwyn  (9">  S.  vii.  229).— The  Gtm- 
logical  Magazine  for  last  January  contains  a 
list  of  311  persons  now  living  who  are  de- 
scended from  this  lady.  The  list  includes 
many  names  of  famous  and  notable  persons 
among  the  peera|i;e,  the  baronetage,  and  the 
commonalty,  ana  has  all  the  authority  which 
attaches  to  genealogical  articles  in  that  well- 
informed  magazine.  The  list,  with  its  accom- 
panying note,  is  a  remarkable  and  interesting 
one.  Tyro. 

Passage  in  Pope  (9"»  S.  viL  308).-The 
passage  quoted  is  from  Pope's  *  Temple  d 
Fame,'  11.  468-72.  Harry  Townesd. 

**  To  sit  bodkin  "  (9"»  S.  vii.  228,  376).' 
This  appears  to  mean  simply  to  sqaeeie  one 
^ft\i  vci^tA  "  wedge  in  "  between  others.  There 


2818  and  1827.    One  ot  them,  ^Ou  BibttA\\\^\\si«.^\^^T\>)  oiii^^u^)^ 


\' 


9* a va Math,  1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


377 


in  travelling,  or  there  may  be  others  on  each 
side  of  those  two  ;  but  the  sense  is  evidently 
borrowed  from  the  employment  of  a  bodkin 
as  it  is  pressed  in  in  piercing  holes  in  cloth. 
Two  quotations  in  the  *  H.E.D/  illustrate  thin 
meaning : — 

While  the  pressed  bodkin,  punched  and  squeezed  to 

death. 
Sweat*  in  the  midmost  place. 

1796,  *  Loves  of  the  TrianRles,'  182  (L.) ; 

and  "If  you  can  bodkin  the  sweet  creature 
into  the  coach,"  1791,  Gibbon,  Let.  31  May 
in  'Mem.'  (1839),  354.  It  is  also,  perhaps 
not  c^uite  correctly,  applied  to  three  persons 
walking.  This  arrangement,  when  a  man 
walks  the  street  with  a  lady  on  each  side, 
and  thus  monopolizes  the  footway,  is  said  to 
suggest  **  an  ass  between  two  panniers  " ;  in 
Italy  **  a  pitcher  with  two  ears. '  In  Thacke- 
ray's *Book  of  Snobs'  Aubrey  is  supposed 
to  come  to  town  in  a  postchaise  ana  pair, 
sitting  "  bodkin,"  probably  between  his  wife 
and  sister  (chap,  xxxiv.). 

J.  H.  MacMichael. 

J.  P.  Lemaistre  (9"»  S.  vii.  307).— Reference 
should  be  made  to  *  N.  &  O.,'  4"»  S.  xi.  394, 
but  more  particularly  to  7*  S.  ix.  26,  116, 
for  communications  respecting  the  author- 
ship of  the  volume  referred  to,  viz.,  'Paris 
in  1801.'  EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

'Child's  Own  Book'  (9^*>  S.  vii.  248).—] 
have  a  copy  of  this  dear  old  book,  fifth 
edition,  1836,  printed  for  Thomas  Tegg  & 
Son,  Cheapside.  The  preface  to  the  first 
edition  (prefixed  to  the  nfth)  is  signed  J.  M. 
My  copy  is  in  a  sad  ramshackle  state,  hardly 
worth  the  expense  of  a  new  coat,  which  I  am 
sorry  for,  as  otherwise  I  should  have  it 
bound  for  the  sake  of  the  days  described 
in  Mrs.  Qemmer's  little  poem  'Baby-Land,' 
when  I 

Heard  the  fairies  ainfi^ng, 
And  sat  upon  my  nursery  floor, 
And  set  the  bells  a-ringing. 

It  is  profusely  illustrated,  and  at  the  end  are 
several  poems : '  We  are  Seven,' '  John  Gilpin,' 
Soathey's  'Battle  of  Blenheim,'  and  others. 
Benedictus  tit  liber ^  notwithstanding  its 
dilapidations,  for  the  sake  of  the 

Dear  childish  days  that  were  as  long 
As  twenty  days  are  now. 

When  was  the  first  edition  published  ? 

Jonathan  Bouchier. 
Ropley,  Hampshire. 

An  edition  must  have  been  issued  long 
before  1861,  as  I  find  it  in  'The  London 
Catalogue  of  Books  published  in  London 


from  the  Year  1810  to  February,  1831,' 
wherein  it  is  described  as  a  square  18mo, 
price  7«.  6d.,  Miller  publisher.  In  the  next 
volume  of  the  'Catalogue,'  of  works  issued 
between  1831  and  1855,  another  edition  of 
the  book  is  described  as  "  illustrated,  16mo, 
price  7«.  6d,,  Tegg  publisher." 

Everard  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Note  on  a  Passage  in  Chaucer's  'Pro- 
logue '  (9*h  s.  vi.  365,  434,  463 ;  vii.  30,  95,  175, 
238). — I  fail  to  see  that  aga  is  not  included  in 
the  expression  "  such  a  collocation  of  letters 
as  cege,  ege,  igeJ'  If  Prof.  Skeat  intended  to 
limit  his  statement  to  the  collocations  named, 
the  form  of  his  statement  was  not  correct, 
and  a  point  not  stated  must  of  necessity  be 
missed.  At  the  same  time  the  perf.  partic. 
of  dragan  is  drcegen,  and  the  noun  meaning 
anything  drawn  is  drcege.  So  that  if  in  a 
peculiar  dialect  the  g  in  dragan  was  guttural, 
the  g  in  drcege  would  have  the  same  value. 
The  two  forms  /uiga  and  hege  show  a  close 
relationshi]3  between  a^a  and  ege.  The  g  of 
hege  came  into  the  M.E.  hegge  and  into  the 
modern  hedge.  It  not  only  did  not  disappear 
early,  but  has  not  done  so  yet.  If  in  A.-S.  the 
g  were  a  mere  glide,  where  did  the  M.E.  form 
come  from!  That  the  diphthongs  formed 
Erom  ceg  and  ag  differed  does  not  indicate  any 
difference  in  the  value  of  the  g  in  the  two 
groups. 

Diegel  is  not  the  only  A.-S.  form  of  the  M.E. 
dufhel.  Digel  is  given  in  Bos  worth-Toller's 
*  Dictionary  ' ;  authorities,  Gregory's  '  Dialog.' 
and  homilies  of  ^Ifric.  And  as  A.-S.  spell- 
ing was  purely  phonetic,  there  could  be  no 
difference  in  the  value  of  the  g  in  digel  and 
in  vn^geh.  That  dighel,  which  occurs  in  a  MS. 
of  1275,  did  not  come  into  the  fourteenth  cen- 
tury at  all  is  a  remarkable  statement.  Is  it 
reasonable  to  declare  a  word  obsolete  twenty 
or  thirty  years  after  it  is  used  in  a  MS.? 
Were  M.E.  MSS.  never  read  after  they  were 
written  ? 

In  the  following  are  evidences  of  the 
guttural  value  of  the  g  in  question.  In  Bos- 
worth-Toller's  '  Diet.,'  under '  Tigel,' is  tighel- 
lana ;  under  *  Tigel-stan '  is  a  quotation  from 
*Reliq.  Antiq.'  (l  54,  30),  "Cfover  hit  wele 
with  a  teghell-stane."  Bosworth  ('Diet.') 
states,  "  To  this  day  porringers  are  called  tigs 
l)y  the  working  potters."  In  Wright- WiilckePs 
'Voc.,'  No.  XIII.  (495,  1),  is  hro/tigum,  a 
contracted  form  of  hroftigelum  (a  roof  tile). 
In  Bosworth-Toller's  'Diet.,'  under  '  Wrigels,' 
is  ivrieles  and  wriheles^  from  '  Aivcr^w  BA?«\fe^ 
322,  19,  and  4^0  itio\,fe>.  \^xv^«t  ""Sa^^;  t^«. 
(eye)  is  eghe  (.OtTwm,  \^QK^    >^a>\  ^^«  «^>«^ 


378 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [^  s.  vil  may  u,  iwl 


and  ehhne.  In  Chaucer  eyghen  occurs  in 
*  Cant.  Tales,'  1.  10,134  (Wright's  text). 

In  Chaucer's  *  Prologue,'  (fee,  edited  by  Peof. 
Skeat,  the  glossary,  under  *Tweye,'  gives 
"Two,  twain,  A.-S.  twegen.  With  this  root 
we  may  connect  twin,  twine,  twill^  and  twig. 
Tusser  calls  ewes  that  bear  twins  by  the 
name  of  twiggers."  Either  the  g  of  itoegen 
did  not  disappear  early,  or  Chaucer  went 
back  to  A.-S.  tor  this  word  of  two  syllables. 
The  g  in  twiggers  could  not  come  at  all  from 
a  mere  glide.  Chaucer's  wryen,  from  A.-S. 
vyrigen^  and  yvrrye^  from  A.-S.^ew^rt^en,8how  no 
shortening,  and  must  come  from  a  form,  early 
or  late,  which  retained  two  syllables.  Per- 
haps Pbof.  Skeat  will  admit  the  possibility, 
or  even  the  probability,  of  torigih  (covering 
of  any  kind,  cloth,  garment)  appearing  as  a 
dissvllable  in  Chaucer. 

Wright- Wiilcker's  *  Semi-Saxon  Vocabulary, 
No.  XlII.,  is  described  in  a  note  as  follows  : 

"This  vocabulary,  which  appears  from  the  de- 
cadence of  the  grammatical  forms,  and  from  the 
orthography,  to  belong  to  the  middle  of  the  twelfth 
century,  is  an  abridgment  of  No.  X.  (A.-S.  of  the 
eleventh  century).  It  (in  MS.)  followed  a  copy  of 
Alfric's  grammar  written  in  the  same  language,  and 
is  an  extremely  curious  monument  of  this  latter  in 
its  state  of  transition." 

In  this  No.  XIlI.  hraegel  occurs  in  the  form 
setraigel  (a  carpet,  &c.),  547,  41 ;  in  No.  X.  it 
is  setrcegl  (328,  33).  Since  the  monosyllabic 
form  dates  from  924,  the  dissyllabic  form 
remains  in  spite  of  the  monosyllabic  for  over 
two  centuries,  and  at  the  end  of  that  time, 
and  in  the  transition  stage  of  the  language, 
shows  no  sign  of  contraction. 

There  is  always  a  considerable  difference 
between  spK)ken  and  written  language,  and  a 
definite  opinion  that  a  word  was  obsolete  at 
a  particular  date  is  a  mere  assertion,  equally 
impossible  to  prove  or  refute.  I  submit  that 
it  IS  not  unreasonable  to  assume  that  a  word, 
common  enough  to  appear  in  writing  at  a 
particular  date,  would  remain  in  the  memory 
of  many  sixty  or  seventy  years  later,  and  in 
remote  districts  much  longer.        A.  C.  W. 

Confidential  Dispatches  to  the  War 
Office  (9^»|  S.  vii.  208).— May  I  be  allowed  to 
refer  to  this  question  in  connexion  with  the 
war  in  South  Africa?  I  venture  to  remark 
that.  Viscount  Wolseley  having  asked  that 
a  person  deputed  by  liim  should  look  over 
papers  at  the  War  Office,  and  name  those 
he  thought  necessary  for  the  maintenance  of 
his  chai-acter,  the  Marquess  of  Salisbury,  from 
his  place  in  the  House  of  Lords,  replied  as 
follows : — 

"  It  is  proposed  to  give  unlimited  yvowet  o\ftt 
con  ^c/ential  papers  of  one  of  the  pr\iici\>a\  de^wcV 


ments  of  the  State.  We  are  the  guardians  of  these 
papers,  and  we  have  no  right  to  give  them  np  until 
we  have  some  security.  I  cannot  admit  that 
because  a  person  is  appointed  by  Lord  Wolseley 
he  has  a  right  to  take  our  responsibility  upon  hu 
shoulders  and  to  determine  what  confidential 
papers— it  may  be  the  most  confidential  papers- 
shall  be  given  for  publication.  It  is  a  proposal  for 
which  there  is  no  sort  of  precedent,  and  it  is  our 
duty  to  the  public  that  we  should  not  consent  to  it. 
The  obvious  course  is  to  bring  a  motion  forward  in 
more  detail  and  at  a  later  date,  and  then  we  should 
be  able  to  judge  in  respect  of  each  paper  demanded 
which  should  be  laid  on  the  table  or  not ;  but  to 
this  roving  commission  of  an  unknown  commis- 
sioner, who  is  to  decide  upon  some  unspecified 
principle  of  arbitration,  we  are  unable  to  anent."— 
VaUp  Telegraph,  16  March. 

Henry  Qerald  Hope. 
119,  Elms  Road,  Clapham,  S.W. 

The  42nd  at  Fontenoy  (9"»  S.  viL  286).- 
See  Scott's  *  Antiquary,'  chap,  xxvii.  :— 

'**Francie  Macraw,'  answered  Ekiie  Ochiltree, 
*d'ye  no  mind  Fontenoy,  and  *keep  thegitber, 
front  and  rear'?" 

Jonathan  Bouchieb. 

Author  of  Recitation  Wanted  (9"*  S.  vu. 
150,  237).— In  the  second  chapter  of  *  Vanity 
Fair'  Thackeray  remarks  :— 

'*  We  may  be  pretty  certain  that  the  persooi  of 
either  sex  whom  all  the  world  treats  ul  deserve 
entirely  the  treatment  thev  get.  The  world  is  a 
looking-glass,  and  gives  bacs:  to  every  man  the  re- 
flection of  his  own  face.  Frown  at  it,  and  it  will 
in  turn  look  sourly  upon  you :  laugh  at  it  and  with 
it,  and  it  is  a  joUv  kind  companion  ;  and  so  let  all 
young  persons  take  their  choice.** 

I   send   this  quotation  as  a  side-light,  not 
as  a  reply  to  the  above  query.       H.  E.  M. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  Ac. 

The  Journal  to  Stella,   By  Jonathan  Swift   Edited 

by  George  A.  Aitken.  (Methuen  ic  Ca) 
Mr.  Aitken's  labours  in  eiehteenth-century  litertr 
ture  have  culminated  in  this  excellent  and,  in  a 
sense,  monumental  edition  of  Swift's  *  Journal  to 
Stella.'  There  is  no  finality  in  literature^  as  in 
other  things,  and  each  generation  demands  its  owi 
edition  of  a  classic.  Were  it  otherwise,  it  might 
be  assumed  that  Mr.  Aitken's  edition  would  answer 
all  conceivable  requirements.  Swift  has  beeo  for 
tunate  enough  to  secure  many  able  and  distingoiriied 
editors,  and  is  still  thoroughly  in  vogue.  We  sbookl 
hesitate  to  say  how  many  well-known  scholars  are 
now  occupied  with  investigation  and  annotation. 
In  the  case  of  the  *  Journal'  much  had  been 
done  before  Mr.  Aitken  entered  the  field.  One 
thing  at  least  the  latest  editor  has  done:  he 
has  left  little  for  his  successors.  Johnson  bimsetf 
has  scarcely  been  treated  with  more  reverence  thaa 
is  Swift.  The  explanatory  notes  are  so  ample  that 
little  is  left  to  the  student  except  to  read  >tiaW 
\  oTv.  ^Q>Tcv^\.Vv\tv9.Tvow  and  then  is  conjectoraL  bat  tni 
^  c:ouf&\A\^x\i^«kQ^\\/&  \\v»i^  of  lae  woric* 


m.  Mat  11, 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


379 


ight  it  throws  upon  history  and  historical 
:ei,  and  for  the  revelation  it  affordB  of 
wu  charact^ri  the '  JourniiL  *  is  n-Iike  pr©ciouB, 
I  ifl  Swift  aet^n  t^o  bo  gr^at  advantage  as  in 
timftte  commanings  with  the  womnn  he 
If  on©  iieeka  to  learr^  how  arid  and  barren 
life,  ODft  mti3t  l^ru  to  judgi^  it  from  what 
tms^ ;  and  if  one  aeeka  to  fjardon  all 
ardooablo  olfencef  one  is  called  on  to  do  lo 
fotirnalJ  It  nceda  liLl  tho  tendemesa  of  the 
angtiai^e  "  to  rotioncile  one  to  the  exhibition 
in  8wift  IB  unlovable  and,  not  to  mines 
.  ba«e.  Neither  Swift  nor  hi*  book  ia,  how- 
w  on  trial,  and  all  we  have  to  do  ia  to 
date  our  readers  upon  an  edition  which, 
jroaent  generation  at  least,  ia  ideal. 

lew  number  of  the  Lilrrat.ru  haa  for  frontiA- 
cxcellein  |H>rlriiit  of  William  MorriSi  with 
uat  of  whose  j^rsonality  and  library  it  opens. 

0  in  English '  ia  the  subject  of  an  edityinji! 
vf  Mr.  W,  E.  A.  Axon.     It  is,  among  other 

1  bibliofeT^phy  of  the  '  Trattato  defla  Vita 
written  in  his  eighty-third  year  Cornaro 
be  alnnjat,  if  not  quitc^  a  hundred.  M  r.  James 
"own  advocates  '  Dcacriptive  Cataloguing  ' 
^  to  be  of  service  to  the  reader.  Hia  aysteni, 
(eful,  soema  t*?  need  expansion,  Mr.  H.  R 
s  *  (ilance  at  the  Whittinfiham  Ledgers 
lentscontribulionaof  the  author  to  *  N.  S:  Q-* 
oducen  many  iUudtrationa.  Mr.  PollarcTs 
a  ^  Book  Illustration  in  the  Fifteenth  Cen- 

1xpth  interesting  and  valuable.  It  might, 
r,  with  advantage,  be  continued;  nmterial 
lant. 

Dij^KXi VARIES  OF  Pa!ITIGU&' is  a  noteworthy 
n  the  QttaHtrlt/  Remew,  by  one  who  possesses 
knowledge  rejatarding  the  disco veries  and 
^i  the  great  discoverer,  and  who  is  in  full 
hy  with  the  work  he  did*  We  wiah,  how- 
be  writer  had  ^ven  a  few  more  details 
ng  the  man  himself,  apart  from  hia  work. 

was  of  peasant  extraction.  Hia  ancestors 
Bir  kin  were  serfs  until  the  time  of  his 
ther;  theirs  waa  probably  a  mild  form  of 
le,  for  Claude  Etienne  was  emancipated  on 
it  of  four  louis  d'or-  The  fannly  were 
.  Paste ur'3  father,  when  not  in  the  army, 
d  the  ancestral  trade  ;  but,  from  the  fieauty 
we  have,  be  aeenis  to  have  been  devoted  to 
ies  as  a  soldier.  He  ruse  to  be  a  sergeant- 
Mid  won  the  cross  of  the  Legion  of  Honour. 
,he  army  was  remodelled  after  the  Bourbon 
tiion,  the  body  in  which  he  had  served  became 

r'ment  Dauphin,  This  waa  do  place  for  the 
imperialist,  so  he  returned  to  hia  hides 
I  tan  pits,  oniv  to  leave  them  again  for  a 

fighcr  for  his  old  maater  during  the  Hundred 
The  father  waa,  we  are  told,  a  alow,  reflective 
■  aomcwhat  melancholy  nature,  and  in  early 
ufould  teem,  Louia  showed  much  of  the  aame 
He  had  an  ardent  desire  for  knowledge, 
en  at  aixteen  he  was  F^ciit  to  Paris  to  the 
iaint  Louis  ho  flulTured  from  home -sickness 
^ly  that  he  had  to  be  taken  away.  His 
L  training  wa;^  that  of  a  chemist,  but  an 
it  sneh  as  hia  was  not  to  be  limited  to  one 

thought*  His  life-work  branched  off  in 
ght-of  direct iona.  Biology,  mwiicinCj  physio- 
id  many  of  the  proceeseH  of  the  manufacture 
uatries  were  in  later  hfo  equally  familiar  to 
p  aU  theu  r«giona  he  made  griat  dis^veiiea 


If,  as  surely  we  may  do,  we  are  to  estimate  the 
Iwnef actors  of  our  race  by  the  amount  of  relief  they 
have  given  to  human  and  animal  suffering,  Pasteur 
must  be  reckoned  among  the  noblest  sonfji  that  the 
world  has  produced.  pSo  tender-hearted  waa  he  in 
the  preserjc©  of  patn,  that  even  when  a  boy  he  eould 
not  be  perauaded  to  go  out  shooting.  *  Humanism 
and  ChriatianityMndicat.es  knowledge  of  a  subject 
beset  with  dimoultiesi  on  which  there  are  wide 
divergences  of  opinion.  8o  far  as  humanism  re- 
sulted from  a  true  desire  for  culture  and  a  revolt 
o^ainat  the  narrowing  influences  of  a  very  imper- 
fect eiviliajation,  no  sensible  person  eati  have  any- 
thing to  say  but  what  i&  favourable  j  but  there  is 
auotner  aide  to  the  picture,  in  its  latter  uhaaes 
there  was  much  that  was  revolting^  and  it  alao  led 
to  the  mere  imitation,  for  the  sake  of  style  alone, 
of  the  classic  authors,  a  perveraity  which  has  done 
untold  dam  Me,  as  it  has  been  the  fertile  source  of 
evila  from  wnich  even  the  rapid  gn^wth  of  modem 
tangu^es  has  not  vet  freed  us.  The  notice  of  the 
late  Bighop  of  Lunaon  is  reasonable  and  fair.  We 
may  not  criticize  it  so  far  as  it  inertains  to  theo- 
loffy,  but  the  estimate  of  Creighton  aa  an  historian 
is  just  and  not  too  highly  coloured. 

LrrETiAKY  articles  in  the  FoHnightlf/  form  but  a 
ama)l  percenta;^  of  its  contents.  Most  important 
among  them  ia  the  disquisition  by  Mr.  W.  E. 
Garrett  Fiaher  on  *  Mr.  George  Murray  Smith  and  " 
"  National  Bie«raphy.*''  This  is,  in  fact,  an  essay 
on  eoUectiona  of  bioffraphiea  generally,  such  as,  on 
a  more  ambitloua  scale,  waa  contributed  fourteen 
years  ago  by  the  late  Chancellor  Christie  to  the 
Quarteriif  Meimw.  That  the  conception  of  the 
BoheiDe  was  Mr.  iimith's  own  we  were  told  by  him- 
self, and  the  information  has  since  been  repeated 
by  Mr.  Le«Lie  Stephen.  It  b  urged  by  Mr.  Fisher 
that  the  appendix  ought  to  include  the  life  of  the 
founder  — surely  a  moat  reasonable  propofiition, 
though  it  is  auggcsted  that,  as  in  the  case  of  Wren 
and  ot.  Paul's,  the  mere  inclusion  of  his  name,  wnth 
the  motto  '*  Si  monument nm  renuiria,  circumstjice^** 
would  be  adeciuate.  The  tribute  paid  to  Mr.  Smith, 
Mr.  Stephen,  and  Mr.  Lee  is  of  course  thoroughly 
merited.  A  further  tribute  to  one  of  the  editors  is 
fumiahed  in  a  sonnet  written  by  Mr.  William 
Wataon  on  Mr.  Sidney  Lee's  *  Life  of  Shakespeare.' 
Mr.  E.  H.  Cooper  pays  a  glowing  tribute  to  Mias 
Charlotte  Mary  Yonge,  and  is  dispooed  to  place  her, 
in  some  refipecta,  next  among  women  workers  to 
the  late  Queen.  No  great  reaaer  of  novela  are  wo, 
and  especially  of  the  novela  of  women.  Mr.  Cooper 
haSt  however,  inspired  ua  with  a  veUeity  to  read  her 
works,  and  we  hope  a  cheap  and  imiform  edition 
will  soon  ^  furnish  an  opportunity  of  so  doing. 
M .  R4ne  {sic)  Doumic  supplies  an  interesting  account 
of  *  The  Literary  Movement  in  France,'  Mr.  Hamil- 
ton Fyfe  deala  with  the  question  of  a  national 
theatre,  now  much  delmted.  An  a  Literary  Supple-  » 
ment  appears  *  Laboremns,'  a  wild  piece  of  mys- 
ticism, or  sy m holism j^or  what  not,  from  Bjomstjeme 
Bjornaon.— in  the  ^intte.Knlh  Cfrutnry  Mr,  Walter 
Frewen  Lord  discuascH  *Tho  Novels  of  Anthony 
TroUope.'  We  read  with  tnuch  interest  what  is 
aaidf  though  we  are  puzzled  with  the  kiud  of 
crltioiem  that  opens  an  article  with  a  sentence  such 
as  **  Lord  Beacon sfi eld  was  the  Paul  Venjoe^e  of 
English  novelifltB."    Would  it  not  be  e<iually  apt  to 

I  say  that  H.  U  Stevenson  was  the  Robin  Adft.vi:  lA 
Knglish  fiction,  or  Ib^n  \ii  ^\kft  Vl^*,T\wsi%3i?jia  ^V 


380 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9«»  s.  vn.  may  ii,  iwl 


h&s  been  neglecitefl  ia,  it  is  stated^  becauae  the  world 
in  which  he  lived  has  imfiaed  aw«y.  We  still  think 
Trot  lope  will  be  revived*  Once  more,  with  becom- 
ing humility,  we  owa  to  having  no  g^r^at  familiarity 
with  (iroae  fiction.  One  of  the  b©Bt  achokra  w© 
knew  in  early  life,  &  nmn  of  tineat  tast^,  said  that 
he  could  eonceivH  of  no  pleaaauter  occut^atiori  than 
*yii^  ^li  a  sofa  and  roadin^  endle«fi  new  novels  of 


nofloimt  the  original  of  whioh  sayiog  ia,  we  fancy, 
to  be  fotmd  in  an  assertion  mi  Gray  concerniug  tile 
grftoeleti  Crtj billon  ./iM.  Htreaa  in  once  more  laid" 
on  the  pbotctgraphic  nature  of  the  obeervation  of 
Troliope,  whoa©  mind,  incapable  of  distortion  or 
exaggeratioui  '*  lacked  the  neceaHary  originality.** 
Of  the  tyj»e  of  clergymen  whom  he  depicted,  or  of 
the  beat,  U  is  aaid,  **  And  what  a  type  it  waa  I  For 
learning,  devout  life^  knowledge  of  mout  charm  of 
manners,  and  commanding  character  it  was  pro- 
bably unrivalled  in  kwtory/*  Mr.  Frank  R.  Benson, 
known  for  his  experimenta  in  the  production  of 
8hiLkes|ieiiTe.  writes  in  advocaoy  of  a  *  National 
Theatre.'  Mr  J.  D.  Rees,  C.I.E.,  writes  on  'The 
Native  Indian  Press,'  and  givea  an  in le resting 
acoount  of  aomo  of  its  utterances.  He  aasumt^a  on 
the  part  of  hla  rcatlcraa  knowledge  such  qa  few  of  us 
fwaa«is.  We  should  have  been  glad  of  more  general 
information  concern lug  the  character  of  thoae  to 
whom  the  Indian  press  is  due.  An  easay  by  Mr, 
G,  F,  Watts,  R.Am  on  '  Our  Race  as  Honeera'  is  likely 
to  arrest  and  rejjay  attention.— In  the  Fail  Mall 
Mr.  A.  H.  Malan  gives  a  good  account  of  Dun  vegan 
Caatle^  which  has  been  described  as  the  oldest 
inhabited  private  house  in  t^ootland.  This  feudal 
Baat  of  the  McLeod  is  at  least  a  superbly  seated 
and  most  pioturesniue  edifice,  the  views  of  which, 
from  photographs  by  the  authori  inapire  a  strong 
deal  re  to  see  it,  EHt>BciaHy  line  ia  tne  view  from 
the  drawitig^room  down  to  the  eoa  gate.  We 
notice  senie  grim  illustrations  of  '  The  Karth's 
Earliest  Inhabitants,'  creatures  worse  and  more 
gruesome  than  Milton's 

Harpieu  and  Hydras  and  Chimteraa  dire, 

Mrs.  E.  T.  Ckjok  utters  a  protest  against  *  Street 
Nuisaneea  and  Noises/  which  wo  echo.  The 
Countess  of  Cork  writes  a  very  interesting  article 
on  '  Etii|Uette,'  and  misauote^  with  an  audacity 
worthy^  of  the  youngest  of  modem  joumalista.  8he 
OwnSf  indeed,  that  ahe  haa  altered  Po|)e's  famous 
eouplet  concerning  "^Narcisaa'a  nature  tolerably 
mil  a."  Perhaps  the  strange  substitution  of  *'  Nar- 
c'iasus'**  for  Aarct*«i'ff  is  due  to  the  printer.  On 
second  thoughts  we  are  disposed  to  believe  it  is. 
Mr.  Archers  *  Heal  Conversation*  is  with  John 
Oliver  Hobbea.  Mr.  Lealie  Stephen  writes  tn  his 
beat  style  ou  *  Romance  and  Hcienee.'— The  niost 
intereating  portion  of  Srrif^m^ft  consiala  of  illus- 
trated desenptious  of  travel,  all  of  which  are  more 
or  leas  stimulating.  Mrs.  Mary  do  Peixotto  describes 
'A  Hummer  in  Sabots,'  which  is  descriptive  of  a 

•  residence  in  Holland.  The  tiila  aa  printed  is  not 
too  easily  intelligible.  *St*  Pierre  Miquelon*  gives 
an  appe tiding  account  of  life  on  an  island  off  the 
coast  of  Newfoundland.  It  ha^  some  good  illus* 
trationt  of  the  Corpus  Christi  proceaalon.  *The 
Bouthern  Mountaineer*  gives  a  vivid  pieture  of  life 
in  Kentucky.  '  Fa«sagea  from  a  Diary  in  the  Pacific ' 
is  also  agreeable  reading.  *8aluoos^*  by  H.  A. 
8tavensou,  deals  with  drinking  places  and  not  with 
/jaunts  of  the  literary  or  the  fashionable. —The  Cotii- 
hiii  opens  with  Mr.   Leslie  iStephen*B  aflTectionate 

tmd  admiriug  tribute  to  tb^  Ute  Mt.  Ut^fu^  M« 


Smith.    The  most  important  jjaper  in  the  number 
consists  of  Mr.  Sidney  Lee's  acuntrablD  article  qq 
*  Shakespeare  and  Patriotism,'     This,  w*hich  ii  of 
course  equally  thoughtful  and  erudite,   maintains 
the  thesis  that  ^hakesffeare^s  is  the  true  patriotiani, 
consisting  of  a  frank  criticism  of  the  policy  of  iho 
nation  and  those  who  initiate  it,  and  of  a  censure 
of  English  e?ctravagauc86  or  weakneaa^  as  oamesb 
as  his  admiration  tor  English  virtue.     '  Plrovincjsl 
Letters  from  Ltchtield  *  is  sparkling.    A  further  con" 
tribution  to  the  history  of  tne  Indian  Mutiny  by  Dr. 
Fttchett  is  almost  too  harrowing.     It  is  well^  how- 
ever^ if  only  for  the  sake  of  the  future,  to  bear  in 
mind  the  past  that  is  depicted.     '  The  Conscienoe 
of  Murderers  *  opens  out  some  curious  speculatioiw. 
Dr.    Gamett*s    'Alms    for  Oblivion  *     is    ajfccially 
learned.  —  Mr.   Herbert  M.   Sanders  sends  to  the 
Gtnihnian*^  a  [uiiMr  on  Bir  Robert  Howard,  a  well- 
knom'n  Restoration  dramatist  whose  playa  are  now 
rather  rare.     Mr.  H.  8chutz  V\'i)aoii  has  a  capital 
account  of    Rachel,  the  great  actresa.     MissGeor* 
giana  Hill  describes  Baron   Mahncsbury,  ami  (M. 
Trevor  a  remarkable  Indian  trial.  —  Mr.  Andrew 
Lang  occupies  almost  the  whole  of  '  At  the  S^  ef 
the  Ship '  in  Lonfjtn^ji^s  with  a  protest,  agaiupt  the 
recent  utterances  of  Mr.  Chnrton  Collins,     He  hai 
also  something  to  say  which  deserves  to  be  uid 
in  defence  of  what  ia  called  *'  log-rolling.*''     Mr. 
Bruce-Angier  describes  the  card-playing  lives  uf 
our  ancestors,  of   which   memoirs  are  fulL     Mr. 
W,  H.  Hudaon  has  a  brilliant  niec«  of  paintinf  d 
*A  Summer's  End  on  the  Itcuen.'— Among  mach 
atirrinK  fiction  the  Idhr  haa  some  articles  of  seHooi 
interests  first  among  which  is  an  admirable  acoouDt 
by  Commander  J,  C.  Cillmore,  of  the  U.S.  Kivy, 
of  an  imprisonment  among  the  Filipinos. 


Wt  must  caU  sptcUd  mUmlimi  to  iht  ftsikitm 
noiites  I — 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  nuns 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  neoeesarily  fof  ya^ 
lication,  but  aa  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 
Wi  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  pritatfllj- 
To  secure  insertion  of  communioitioni  coit*- 
apondenta  must  observe  the  following  rulea  I^ 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  aapanH 
slip  of  paper,  Mrith  the  signature  of  the  writer  tod 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  VVheu  mffin^ 
ing  {queries,  or  making  notes  with  reigard  to  pi«no^ 
entries  in  the  t^per,  oontrihutora  are  reqaefited  tc 
put  in  parentneaes,  Immediately  after  the  tMM^ 
neMliugr  the  series,  volume,  and  i^age  or  paRW  ^ 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  rtp»* 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  aeoond  <iQa^' 
munication  ^*  Duplicate.'' 

W.  B.  P.^"  Upholder"  is  a  r&c<^ix«Ki  imA  ht 
upholsterer.  Kee*  Century  Dictionary  *?  £jtfi^"< 
'  ourvey '  ^  ^  N.  &  Q./  p<%^uiu 

HQTWM, 

Editorial  CommunicatlenB  abould  be  addrSMn)  ^ 
"  The  Editor  of  '  Notes  and  Queries  '  '*— AdT«rt»«^ 
ments  and  Business  Letters  to  "  The  Fublialiflr'*^ 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Ijaiie,  EC- 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  x^  rt^s^ 
communicaUonB  which,  for  any  reaaon^  m  do  p^^ 
L  ^S^niL^V  ii2id  to  this  rule  wo  ofto  i&Ako  no  axoopti^o* 


viL  May  11, 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


A  THENJiVM  for  May  U  contains  ArlieUt  on 
t)KY  of  the  ENGLISH  JESUITS. 

HUTCHESON'B  PHILOBOI'HY. 
fiCTIUKS  of  MALAYA. 
)BUVE. 

tNTH-GBNTU&Y  MBMOIK8. 
TELB  :-ThB  8apr«m«  Crime ;   Voy«ey  .  Queen's  Mate ;  The 

of  the  Mornlof ;  Le  Moureaa  Don  Joan. 

uid  PASTIMES. 

TOKIBS. 

KABY  TABLE— LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

CRITICIZED  i  The  FRA8E&  SALE .  The  Ute  Mr.  OBOKOE 

B. 

AlM- 

lY  GOSSIP. 

-Oraithologlcnl  litentore ;  SodeUes;  Meetlnfs  Next  Week ; 

I. 

T8— SpaaUh  Art  at  the  GaUdhaU ;  The  Saloni  of  1901 ;  Maria 
If 'I '  Cynthia  'i  Sale ;  Ooeelp. 

The  EoMnld  lale ' ;  The  Joachim  Uoartet :  The  London 
al  FesUval  i  Gosalp  -,  Performances  Next  Week. 

-'  The  Queen's  Doable ';  '  The  Han  from  BUmkley's ';  Gosalp. 


ATHENjUUHfoT  April  20  eontainM  Artielet  on 

DANVILLE'S  WIDOWHOOD. 

K  on  CHKISTIANITY. 

BOOK  on  GARDENING. 

LF&ICA  a  CENTURY  AGO. 

IKICAN  NEGRO  of  TO-DAY. 

iTBRIBS  of  ISIS. 

'YELS: -Dabs  the  Impossible,  The  Oolvmn;  Mononia:  The 
Floor ;  The  Eternal  Quest ;  The  Banner  of  Saint  George ; 
Bny,  her  Mark ;  A  Cardinal  and  his  Conscience. 

m  the  WAR. 

ii  HISTORY. 

IRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

fDON    LIBRARY     CATALOGUE;     ADMIRAL     NAPIER; 

)KS  and  LETTERS";   CURDS  and  "CROWDY";   ROYAL 

ARIES  and  PAPYRUS  in  PH(KNICIA ;  BYRON,  KEATS, 

LBYN0LD6 ;  CRITICA  CRITICIZED. 

Also— 
ELY  GOSSIP. 

:  —  Astronomical  Notes  ;  Sale ;  Societies ;  Meetings  Next 
(  Gossip. 

ITS— New  Bnxlish  Art  Clnb ;  Gossip. 
Gossip }  Performances  Next  Week. 
-'  Coriolanns '  and  *  The  WUderoess ' ;  Gossip. 


The  ATUKSjUUU  for  April  27  oania\n»  Artidet  on 

MR.  BTILLMAN'S  REMINISCENCES. 

The  ITINERARY  of  EDWARD  I. 

SIR  ROBERT  HART  on  CHINA. 

The  HISTORY  of  the  CHURCH  of  SCOTLAND. 

HARROW. 

NEW  NOVELS :-Hls  Own  Father;  Lysbeth;  The  SUrer  SknU:  The 
Ship's  Adventure;  The  Three  Days'  Terror;  Pro  PatriA;  What 
Men  oaU  Loto  ;  Anna  Lombard ;  Mountains  of  Necessity ;  8uor 
Giovaaaa  della  Crooe. 

GENEALOGICAL  LITERATURE. 

RECENT  VERSE. 

BOOKS  on  EGYPT. 

■OONOMIO  LITBRATURB. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TASLB— LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

The   late  BISHOP  of  OXFORD;    SALES;    BYRON,    KEATS,   and 

reynolds ;  some  unpublished  epigrams  by  thomas 
fuller  ;  admiral  sir  charles  napibb. 

Also- 
literary  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE  —  Bementarr  Manuals;    Astronomical  Motes;   Societies; 

MMttngs  Next  Week. 
FINE  ARTS— Books  on  English  and  French  Cathedrals;  The  New 

Gallery ;  Triumphs  of  French  EnjrraTing ;  Bales  ;  Gossip. 
MUSIC-Oossip ;  Performanoes  Next  Week. 
DRAMA—*  Count  Tesma ' ;  '  A  Royal  Necklace ' ;  '  Sweet  and  Twenty ' ; 

Goasip.  

The  ATUEN^UM  for  April  IS  contains  Articles  on 
BYRON'S  LETTBBS  and  JOURNALS. 
The  INDIAN  BORDERLAND. 
The  GREAT  NORTH  ROAD. 
A  HISTORY  of  the  ENGLISH  CHURCH. 
The  POETRY  of  M.  VBRHAEREN. 
NEW  NOYELSr-^The  Heritage  of  Unreit ;  A  Secretary  of  LegoUon  t 


The  Wixard's  Knot ;  The  Career  of  a  Beauty ;  Belintte  Pitxwarron ; 
Castiac  of  NeU;  The  Midnight  Passenger;  The  FngiUres;  A 
Soldier  of  the  King ;  Saronia ;  A  Syndicate  of  Sinners. 

MILITARY  BOOKS. 

LOCAL  HISTORY. 

TALES  Of  ADVENTURE. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

NEWLY  DISCOVERED  DOCUMENTS  of  the  ELIZABETHAN   and 

jacobean  periods;  "  aealienate "  ;  •shakespeare's 
family  ' ;  mr.  george  m.  smith. 

Also- 
literary  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE— The  Wildfowler  in    Scotland;    Anthropological   Notes; 

Societies ;  Meetings  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
FINE  ARTS-Royal  Society  of  British  ArtUts ;  Mr.  Stnuig's  Etchings 

at Gntekunst's  Gallery;  Mistakes  in  Church  Dedicatton;   " 

from  Rome ;  Ooeslp. 
MUSIC-Gosaip ;  Performaneas  Next  Week. 
DRAMA-'  Nicandra '  i  The  McKee  Library ;  Gossip. 


The  ATHENjEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    C.     FRANCIS,    Athenaeum    Office,    Bream's  Buildings,    Chancery  Lane,   E.C. 

And  of  all  NewaagentA. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      V^  b.  vil  mat  u.  m. 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DEPARTMENT 
MAOAZINBS  AND  T  TDP  AW    PHPTIPQ  WITHDRAWN  FROM 

RBViiEWS.  LiLDJOtARl    vUlTiJiiD  circulation, 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kmgdom  at  the  Prices   annexed, 

Until  farther  noUoe  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 

raa  AMHUM  .  rta  wkvm 

Argoty 7  6  Macmillan't      7  i 

Blaokwood't      13  0  Monthly  Review       16  0 

Century 10  6  National  Review        16  « 

Contemporary  Review        16  0  Nineteenth  Century 16  0 

ComhiU 7  6  Fall  Mall           8  < 

Bnglith  Illustrated 6  0  Revue  des  Deux  Mondes     90  0 

Fortnightly  Review 16  0  Scribner't          7  < 

Marpert 9  0  Temple  Bar      7  < 

Longman's       6  0 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
Bdinburgh       7    6 1  Quarterly  7  < 

The  terms  will  be  1«.  6d,  per  annum  less  to  Subscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalli  to 
have  the  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  than 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  aubicribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

8UB80RIPTION8  MAY  COMMENCE  AT  ANT  DATS. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  Railway  BookttalU,  to  which  places  they  mill  he  forwarded  carriage  free, 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  p«m^  ofc- 

CBNTURY  MAGAZINB.  The.    Vol.  30       „ 8    6   ...  J  « 

ATALANTA  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  6     8   0   ...  3  < 

LONDON  BOCIBTY.    2  voU.  for  1891         16   0   ...  «  • 

3  volt,  for  1892  16    0   ...   3  < 

CASSBLL'S  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1896,  to  May.  1899.    Illustrated ...  S  < 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       ...  S  < 

Vol.  for  December,  1899,  to  May,  1900  .«  S  • 

CHAMBBR8*S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURB,  SOIBNCB,  and  ARTS.    VoL  for  1809 9    0   ...  >  • 

Vol.  for  1895 9  0  .«  I  « 

Vol.  for  1897 9  0  -  »  • 

Vol.  for  1898 9  0  -.  »  • 

Vol.  for  1899 9  0  -  »  • 

QUIVBR  VOLUMB.    November,  1897,  to  April,  1898 .«  i  • 

November,  1898,  to  April,  1899 ...  -.  J  • 

May  to  October,  1899  .«  I  • 

GOOD  WORDS.    VoU.  for  1888, 1892, 1894, 1895,  1897,  and  1898       7    6  «.  S  * 

SUNDAY  MAGAZINB.    VoU.  for  1889. 1892, 1894, 1895,  and  1898 ^       ...  9   0  .*  S  < 


W.  H.  SMITH  ic  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 
And  at  over  600  Railway  BoolutalU.  to  which  places  Subscribers  can  be  tnuitfened,  tnt  of 
Protpeetut  of  Ttmu,  Hfc,  »emt  free  upon  applieation  to  186,  STRAND^  LONDOIf, 

PHatetf  bf  JOHN  EDWA.RD  FB.\«Cl«.  Ja^«n«QLmVT«M,BrMAA'^^\a«k,^SMMnn  Lus,  B.C. ;  aatf  PkMtefee«  ly 


JOHMO.  VaAMOlfitkl 


NOTES    AND    QTJEKIES: 

i  IOp:(Mttin  ai  |nter(ommnntnUon 


roB 


TERARY     MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


**Whe]i  found,  make  a  note  of'— Captain  Cuttlb. 


nrir    r  Ninth  "| 
•  •  •  Lbkbies.  J 


Saturday,  May  18,  1901. 


Pbiob  Foubpxvok. 

EsfitUrtd  as  a  Ntwtpapm. 


S  AND  QUERIES. -The  SUBSCRIPTION 

OTS8  AND  QUBRIBS  free  by  poet  i«  10c.  34.  tor  8ix  Months ; 
[or  TwelTe  llbntlu.  Inolndloff  the  Volnme  Index.— JUHN  C. 
NvUa  and  Querua  Offlee,  Bream's  BnUdlnfs,  Ohaneery  Lnne. 

CORONATION    of    QUEEN    VICTORIA. 

LB.  a  Copy  of  the  SUM,  Second  Bditlon.  Jnne  28.  1888. 
3old.  containing  a  Fnll  Aoeonat  of  the  Queen's  Coronation 
^ription  of  the  8tate  Carriages  of  Marshal  Sonlt  and  the 
Msadors  -Ofltors  requested  to  Z.,  Athenvam  Press,  Bream's 
Chancery  Lane,  B.C. 


^ISH   MIDDLE-CLASS   FAMILIES* 

Ifi60-I800.-Colleotor  of  Pedigrees  and  Pedigree  Byldence 
qnlrles— Address  UBCORD  AOBNT,  fiO.  fieecrott  Bond, 
.<ondon,  S.B. 


S,  MSa,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 

Aaetioneers  of  Books  and  Literary  Property  of  erery 
.  Libraries  and  smaller  Collections  carefully  Catalogued 
ily  offered  for  Sale.    Faeklag  and  BemoTal  anmnged  for. 

made  for  Probate  or  uther  purposes.  Auction  Rooms,  lU, 
Ane  (Fleet  Street  end).    " "----" 


S.— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS    sup- 

.  no  matter  on  what  Subject.  Acknowledged  the  world  orer 
.  aspert  Buokflnders  ezcaot.  Please  state  iranU.— BAKB&'S 
shop.  14-16,  John  Bright  Street,  Birmingham. 

AOBMCY  FOB  AMBRICAN  BOOKS. 

PUTNAM'S   SONS,    PUBLISHERS  and 

BOOKSBLLBRS, 
),  West  28rd  Street,  Ne«r  York,  and  24,  BEDFORD  STRBBT, 
W.C,  desire  to  caU  the  attention  of  the  RBADIMG 
•  the  excellent  facilities  presented  by  their  Branch  House  in 
r  fllling,  on  the  mo»t  fsTonrable  terms,  orders  for  their 
NDARD     PUBLICATIONS,     and    for     ALL    AMBRICAK 

Catalogues  sent  on  application. 


BPPB8  WATBRS  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  International 
Bxhlbitton,  Paris,  1800. 

i/iTEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
TSthe  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

chweppesboda. 

;K  waters  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
de,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
,dcc.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century, 
.ye  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 

LISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER :~  . 
7EPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,^ 
n  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  ) 

SnCPPBS,  LTD.,  LONDON,  Malvern, 


C 


lULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

for  Searches  and  Authentic  Information  respecting 

ARMORLAL    BBARIM08   AND   FAMILY    DE8CBNTB, 

with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artistic  Prodnetioa  of 

HBRALDIC  PAINTIMO  AND  BNORAYIMO. 

Book-Plates,  Seals.  Dies,  Signet  Rings.  Liyery  Buttons,  Crested  Mole- 

Paper,  Ylaiting  and  Inritatioa  Cards,  *e. 


92,  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Park). 


M< 


TUB  DB  LA  MORS  PRESS. 

PREPARING  for  PUBLICATION,  a  New  Work  of  great  Artistic, 

Historical.  Antiquarian,  and  Topographical  Intereet. 

ONASTIC    SEALS    of    the    THIRTEENTH 

CBNTURY.    With  the  English  Office  for  their  Reception. 

60  Full-Page  Plates  in  Collotype.    With  Historical  Introduction  and 

Descnptlre  Notee  by 

GALE  PBDRICK.  F.R  Hist.Soe. 

Presented  In  Old-Faced  lype.  bound  in  parchment,  and  gilt  lettered. 

Price  to  Sabeeribers  before  publlcaUon,  2Li.  net,  after  which  it  will  be 

raised  to  2ftc. 

Speeimea  Plate  and  Prospectus  free. 

Address:    52,  High  Holbom,   London,  W.C. 


ATHEN^UM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRAMOIS,  Printer  of  the  At^»nmum.  NoU»  and  Qamri»$,  *e.,  to 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  B8TIMATBS  tor  all  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEffS, 
and  PERIODICAL  PRIMTIMG.— U,  Bream's  BuUdings,  Chaneery 
Lane,  B.C.  -..  ,  , 

EXCHANGE   (or  would  SUB-LET)  for  THREE 
MONTHS,  a  HOU8B  in  Sonth-West  Suburb  (Kl.  rental)  tor  a 

Residence  la  the  Country,  or  Seaside.— Apply  P.,    '*" 

Bream's  Buildings,  B.C. 


S^TICKPUAST    PASTE    is   HEAPS  better  than 

O  Gum  tor  etieking  in  Seraps,  Joining  Papers,  *e.  M.  and  Ic.  with 
strong,  nsefol  Brush  (not  a  Toy).  Send  two  stamps  to  ooTcrpoeiage 
for  a  sample  Boctie,  iaeluding  Brush.  Faetory.  Sugar  Loaf  Covrt, 
LeadenhaUBtieet.  B.C.    Of  aU  Stationer*.    Stiekphaat Paste stieka. 

THE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER -FAD. 
(The  LE/kDEMHALL  PRESS.  Ltd..  Publishers  and  Prlatars. 
SO.  Leaaenhall  Street.  London,  B.C.) 
Contains  hairless  paper,  orer  which   the    pen  slips  with   perfect 
freedom.    Sixpence  each.    i».  per  dosen.  ruled  er  plain.   Mew  Pocket 
Slse,  Ss.  per  dosen,  mled  or  plain. 

Author*  should  note  that  The  Leadeahall  Press,  Ltd..  cannot  be 
respouible  for  the  loss  of  MSB.  by  Are  or  otherwise.  DupUcate  copies 
should  be  retained. 

WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

OOFPES— SOGAR— T£A. 

104.  HtYl  liXV^Wi  %'\^\\-\xH^3^, 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     (g^s.viLMATiM«L 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DEPARTMENT 
MAQAZINBS  AND  T  TPP  APV    PHPTIPQ  WITHDSAWH  FBOM 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

Until  fiirth«r  noUoe  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


Argoty 7    6    Macmillan't     ^    7  < 

Blaokwood't     13    0     Monthly  BeWew       ^   II  • 

Century 10    6    National  Beview        ^.   U  0 


npormiy  Beview        16  0  Nineteenth  Oentnry le  0 

Oomhlll 7  6  Fall  Mall          8  e 

BngUth  lUnttrated 6  0  Bevne  det  Deux  Mondet     „       ...  30  0 

FortnighUy  Beview 16  0  Scritmer't         7  f 

Harpers 9  0  Temple  Bar      7  f 

Longman't       5  0 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATS, 
■dlnbnrgh       7    6)  Quarterly  ...       „.    7  • 

The  terms  will  be  It,  6d,  per  annum  less  to  Subscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalli  to 
have  the  Magasines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  lees  period  tbao 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subeoribsd  for. 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

8UB80RIPTION8  MAY  COMMENCB  AT  ANY  DATS. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  ike  RaiUvay  BookitalU,  to  wkiek  placet  they  wiU  be  forwarded  eanriage  free. 


THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  -^       « 

OBNTUBY  MAQAZINB.  The.    Vol.  ao      8   «...  1  • 

ATALANTA  MAQAZINB.    VoL  6     ...  8   0   ...  I  < 

LONDON  BOOIBTY.    2  volt,  for  1891         M   0   ...  I  • 

2  voli.  for  18M         1*    0   .«  »  • 

OASSBLL'S  MAQAZINB.    Vol.  for  Dooember,  1808,  to  May,  1899.    lUuttrated ».  >  « 

Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    lUuttrated       .«  1  • 

Vol.  for  December,  1899,  to  May,  1900          ...  ...  >  < 

OHAMBBBS'S  JOUBNAL  of  POPULAB  LITBBATUBB,  SOIBNOB,  and  ABTS.    Vol.  for  1809. 9   0...)! 

Vol.  for  1895 9  0  ...  I  • 

Vol.  for  1897 „.»•-.»• 

Vol.  for  1898 9  0  ...  I  * 

Vol.  for  1899 »  0  «.  »  • 

QUIVBB  VOLUMB.    November,  1897,  to  April,  1898 ...  ...If 

November,  liJ98.  to  April.  1899 „.  -  *  • 

May  to  October.  1899          -  *  • 

QOOD  WORDS.    VoU.  for  188m,  It^j,  1894. 1896, 1897,  and  1898       ..!•«.>* 

SUNDAY  MAQAZINB.    VoU.  for  1889, 189;<,  189A,  1896.  and  1808 ...       ...       ...  9   •  ..  >  * 


W.  H.  SMITH  k,  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Bailwmy  BooksteLU,  to  which  placet  Subeoriben  out  be  ttaaiftned,  ttm  of  ehaift. 

Pre^eelut^  Temt,9(^,mAfruwffnkvn^Miiem\i^m^iXTajJiD.  LaNDON. 


9*  a  viL  Mat  18. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


381 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  MAY  18,  1901, 

CONTENTS. -No.  177. 

NOTBS  :  —The  M«nor  of  Tybarn,  381— Spenser,  *  Locrine,' 
and  'Selimus,'  384— "Klnkajou  "— '*  We  don't  want  to 
light,"  Ac.—"  Lability  "—Hogarth  Houie,  Chitwick.  386— 
The  Kpiscopal  Wig— Crosier  and  Pastoral  Staff-'  N.  k  Q.' 
for  Sale—**  Complin  "—Literary  Errors,  387. 

QUBBIBS  :— **  Atte"— Poem  by  Scarpelli— Verses  by  Lady 
Falkland— Cambridge  in  the  Seventeenth  Century— Books 
on  Manners  before  1800-  Shakespeare  Qaeries— Rev.  John 
Knox  —  Authors  Wanted  —  Pews  annexed  to  Houses— 
'Kathleen  Mavourneen/  388  —  Troubadour  and  Daisy— 
Ijuiy  Purbeck  and  her  Son— Dendritic  Markings  in  Paper— 
"Parlour"— Roman  Catholic  Records— Browne  Family- 
Mexican  Terms  for  Foreigners— Incised  Circles  on  Stones, 
389  — Compa  y  of  Miners  — Tool  Marks  on  Medinval 
Dressed  Stones  —  Intemperance,  War,  Pestilence,  and 
Famine-  Kingsman  Family,  390. 

RBPLIBS  :— Animsis  in  People's  Insides,  390— "Juggins" 
— 'Attur  Ac*d.'  — Thackeray,  392  —  Collet  —  Coronation 
Stnne  —  May  -  wattr  —  *  *  Carrick  "  —  Verbs  from  Proper 
Pames,  393  —  "Shoehorned,"  394  —  Centipedes :  Local 
Name—"  Non  terra  sed  aquis  " — Last  Male  Descendant 
of  Defoe— Sir  John  B.  Warren,  ?95 -Hand-ruling  on  Old 
Title-pages— Suffolk  Name  for  Ladybird— "Lady  of  the 
mere  "—Vulgar  Misuse  of  *•  Right '  — ••  Mad  as  a  hatter  " 
— *'8ar8on  Stones."  396  -  Sir  J  Byre— Flower  Game- 
Birth  Beffisters  on  Tower  Hill— D'Auvergne  Family,  397 
—Count  Pecchio— Bxcavations  near  Cirencester— Authors 
Wanted,  398. 

NOTBS  ON  BOOKS  :— Duchess  of  Wellington's  *  Descrip- 
tive and  Historical  Catalogue  of  the  Collection  of  Pictures 
and  Sculptuse  at  Apsley  House  '— Maltland's  *  Gierke's 
Political  Theories  of  the  Middle  Ages '  —  ' Edinburgh 
Review '— *  Man.' 

Notices  to  Correspondents. 


THE  MANOR  OF  TYBURN. 
(See  9^  IS.  vii.  121, 210,  242,  2S2,  310.) 

I  HAVB  followed  with  attention  the  dis- 
cussion which  has  taken  place  regarding 
*  Executions  at  Tyburn  and  Elsewhere,'  not 
only  because  of  the  intrinsic  interest  of 
the  subject,  but  because  I  have  for  some 
time  past  made  a  special  stud  v  of  the  history 
of  the  locality.  My  researches  are  by  no 
means  complete,  but  I  may  hope  to  add 
something  to  the  information  which  is  con- 
tained in  the  ordinary  works  of  reference, 
and,  with  the  Index  in  view,  have  made  a 
slight  alteration  in  the  title  which  was 
adopted  by  Mr.  W.  L.  Rutton.  Although 
one  cannot  entirely  ignore  the  use  to  which 
Tyburn  was  put  for  several  centuries,  I  shall 
only  treat  it  as  incidental  to  the  main  subject. 

The  conclusions  at  which  I  have  inde- 
pendently arrived  agree  in  nearly  every 
detail  with  those  of  Mr.  Rutton.  It  is 
therefore  with  the  criticisms  of  Mr  Loftib 
that  I  propose  chiefly  to  deal.  These  may 
be  subjected  to  two  tests— the  test  of  evidence 
and  the  test  of  common  sense. 

Mb.  LoFTnt  asks  what  Mr.  Rutton  means 
by  Tyburn.  Tyburn  was,  I  presume,  the 
plaoe  of  execution  for  some   hundreas  of 


years.  But  I  apprehend  the  real  question 
18,  Why  was  this  place  called  Tyburn  ?  My^ 
answer  is,  It  was  called  Tyburn  because  it 
was  situated  on  or  near  the  site  of  the  ancient 
town  or  village  of  that  name. 

The  chief  existing  authority  for  the  his- 
tory of  Tyburn  is  Lysons.  His  account  of  the 
manor  has  been  followed  without  apparent 
(luestion  by  every  succeeding  topographer, 
including  Thomas  Smith,  the  only  writer 
who  has  dealt  specially  with  the  history  of 
St.  Maryleboue,  as  Mr.  Clinch's  book  hardly 
professes  to  be  more  than  a  richauffi  of  old 
material.  Mr.  Loftie  in  his  paper,  arUe^  p.  210, 
similarly  follows  Lysons,  and,  so  far  as  I  can 
see,  adds  nothing  in  the  way  of  original 
information.  Now  the  Rev.  Daniel  Lysons 
was  a  topographer  of  wonderful  ability  and 
industry,  but,  ranging  as  he  did  over  so 
wide  a  neld,  it  would  have  been  a  miracle  if 
he  had  not  occasionally  committed  a  mistake. 
In  his  account  of  the  manor  of  Tyburn  his 
errors  are  fairly  numerous. 

We  all  know  that  when  Domesday  Book 
was  compiled  the  Abbess  of  Barking  held 
Tyburn  of  the  king.  Mr.  Button  very  per- 
tinently asks,  **  Did  she  continue  to  hold  it 
until  the  suppression  of  the  house?''  Accord- 
ing to  Lysons  (*  Environs,'  second  ed.,  1811. 
vol.  ii  part  ii.  p.  541),  Robert  de  Vere  held 
the  manor  under  the  abbess.  Mr.  Loftie 
goes  further,  and  says  that  Robert  rented  it 
from  the  abbess,  and  that  he  gave  the  lease 
to  one  of  his  younger  children.  I  have  hunted 
through  many  records,  and  have  never  found 
a  trace  of  this  lease.  Perhaps  Mr.  Loftie 
will  kindly  say  where  it  is  to  be  found.  If, 
however,  an  answer  is  required  to  Mr. 
Rutton's  question,  Lysons  will  supply  it 
In  his  account  of  Barking  ('  Environs,'  second 
ed.,  1811,  vol.  i.  part  ii.  p.  607)  he  gives  a 
schedule  of  the  estates  held  by  the  convent 
at  the  time  of  the  dissolution  ;  and  although 
many  broad  manors  were  in  the  hands  of  the 
abbess,  that  of  Tyburn  will  not  be  found 
amongst  them,  though  she  was  in  possession 
of  some  "  lands  in  Mary  bone." 

In  dealing  with  historical  questions  of  this 
kind  one  broad  fact  should  ever  be  kept  in 
view.  During  the  four  hundred  years  that 
elapsed  between  the  date  of  the  Domesday 
Survey  and  that  of  the  accession  of  the 
Tudors  the  boundaries  of  manors  did  not 
remain  constant.  Some  were  subdivided 
into  smaller  tracts,  others  were  added  to, 
and  a  system  of  freehold  ownership  grew  up 
within  the  manors,  as  well  as  many  copy- 
hold rights,  which  considerably  curtailed  tne 
limits  of  the  propetV?  Vv^V*^  V3  ^^  <^rv^>x>a^ 
possessors.   T Ws  &\>  uwb  ViVxsi^  ol  >ih^^  ^^^sm^c^- 


382 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9«»  s.  vn.  may  is.  iwi. 


tion  the  Abbess  of  Barking  held  some  land 
in  the  manor  of  which  her  predecessor  had 
been  mistress,  on  the  same  footing  as  several 
other  freeholders  whom  I  could  name. 

In  the  absence,  therefore,  of  evidence  to  the 
contrary,  I  take  it  as  an  undoubted  fact  that 
the  Abbess  of  Barking  lost  possession  of  the 
manor  of  Tyburn  not  long  after  the  Conquest. 
The  exact  aate  I  am  unable  to  state,  but  the 
cession  probably  took  place  when  Henry  I. 
afforested  the  estates  of  the  abbey.  Stephen, 
who  was  always  a  friend  of  the  abbey,  restored 
these  estates  ^  but  the  Tyburn  manor  appears 
to  have  remained  in  the  hands  of  the  Crown, 
as  it  formed  one  of  a  group  of  manors  which 
included  Prittiwell,  Margaretting,  and  Wool- 
verston  in  Essex,  Medmenham  in  Bucks, 
and  one  or  two  others,  which  were  granted 
by  King  Henry  II.  to  the  family  of  San- 
ford*  by  the  serjeanty  of  acting  as  cham- 
berlain to  the  queen  on  the  occasion  of 
her  coronation  (Morant's  *  Essex,'  i.  167,  168). 
Two  members  of  this  family,  Adam  and 
Jordan  de  Sanford,  founded,  in  honour  of  St. 
Lawrence,  a  priory  of  Black  Canons  at  Blake- 
more,  in  Essex,  at  the  beginning  of  the  reign 
of  King  John ;  and  it  was  doubtless  on  this 
account  that  the  church  of  Tyburn  was 
appropriated  by  the  Bishop  of  Liondon, 
William  de  Sancta  Maria,  to  that  establish- 
ment. In  1234  Otho  Fitz William  leased  to 
Brother  Robert  de  Sanford,  Master  of  the 
Knights  Templars  in  England,  the  manor 
of  Lileston  with  its  appurtenances,  a  grant 
which  was  confirmed  nve  years  later  (*Feet 
of  Fines  for  London  and  Middlesex,'  ed. 
Hardy  and  Page,  i.  25).  t  Robert  de  Sanford, 
who  was  probably  a  member  of  the  family 
which  held  Tyburn,  added  largely  to  the 
possessions  of  nis  order,  for  we  find'from  the 
Feet  of  Fines'  that  he  acquired  land  and 
other  property  not  only  in  Cranford,  Hen- 
don,  Finch  lev,  and  Hampstead,  but  also  in 
Tyburn ;  and  I  think  it  not  unlikely  that 
the  last-named  property,  which  would,  of 
course,  be  merged  in  the  manor  of  Lileston, 
may  have  constituted  the  estate  which  was 
subseciuently  granted  by  the  Prior  of  the 
Hospitallers  to  John  and  Joan  Blennerhasset, 
and  which  now  forms  the  Portman  estate.  | 

*  This  name  is  variously  spelt  Saunford,  Sand- 
ford,  8ampford,  and  Samford. 

t  See  my  paper  on  *  The  Manor  of  Lisson,'  9**»  S. 
i.  181. 

t  In  connexion  with  this  Rrant,  Mr.  Loftie  cites 
L.  Larking, '  Hospitallers,'  Cam.  Soc.,  1857.  I  have 
carefully  gone  through  this  book,  but  have  failed 
to  find  any  reference  whatever  to  the  transaction  in 
^ueation.  The  fact  that  Tyburn  is  not  mentioned 
in  it,  whilst  the  lands  at  Cranford,  Hendoti,  «sid 
HuDpBtead  are  included  in  the  **  bona  qvLondBkin 


The  Hospitallers,  after  the  fall  of  the  Tem- 
plars, were  granted  the  possessions  of  the 
latter  order  ;  and  as  no  mention  of  any  part 
of  Tyburn  is  made  in  the  schedule  of  the 
property  belonging  to  the  Knights  of  St.  John 
at  the  dissolution,  this  conjecture    (and   I 
admit  it  is  only  a  conjecture)  seems  plausible, 
and  it  would  further  account  for  the  inter- 
section of  the  Tyburn  manor  which  is  recog- 
nized as  a  difficulty  by  Mr.  Button.    The 
last  of   the  Sanfords  who  held  the  Tyburn 
manor,  Gilbert,  was  a  man  of  some  distinction. 
From  the  Patent  Rolls.  20  Richard  II.,  we 
learn  that  in  1235  he  officiated  in  his  heredi 
tary  office  of  chamberlain   to  the  queen  at 
the  coronation  of  Eleanor  of  Provence,  the 
queen  of  Henry  III.    Although  he  received 
no  writ  of  summons  to  Parliament,  he  seems 
to  have  held  baronial  rank,  as  his  descendantii, 
the  Earls  of  Oxford,  assumed   the  title  of 
Baron  Sanford  ;  and  in  1626  it  was  resolved 
by  the  House  of   Lords  that  this  barony, 
together  with  those  of  Bolebec  and  Badles- 
mere,   was  in  abeyance   between  the  heirs 
general  of  John  de  Vere,  seventh  Earl  of 
Oxford  (Nicolas,  *  Historic  Peerage,'  ed.  by 
Courthope,    1857,    p.  63).     But    Gilbert  de 
Sanford's  chief   claim  to  distinction   arises 
from  the  fact  that  it  was  through  his  public 
spirit  that  water  was  first  supplied  to  the 
citizens  of  London  from  sources  beyond  the 
City  limits.    Mr.  J.  Q.  Waller,  in  his  paper  on 
*  The  Tybourne  and  the  Westboume,'  in  the 
Transactions  of  the  London  and  Middlesex 
Archaeological    Society,   vi.    256,    has,   by  a 
curious  oversight,  stated  that  "as  early  as 
21  Henry  III.  liberty  was  granted  to  Gilbert 
Sandford  to  convey  water  from  Tyburn  by 
pipes  of  lead  to  the  City."    This  reverses  the 
real  state  of  the  case.     Gilbert  de  Sanford 
was  not  the  grantee,  but  the  grantor  of  this 
privilege  to  tlie  citizens  of  London  by  virtue 
of  his  position  as  lord  of  the  manor  from 
which  the  water  was  conveyed.    It  may  be 
useful  here  to  quote   the  words   of  Stov. 
After  writing  that  the  sources  which  had 
hitherto  supplied  the  City  had  proved  in- 
sufficient, the  chronicler  goes  on  to  say  :— 

"  They  were  forced  to  seeke  sweete  waters  abroad, 
whereof  some  at  the  request  of  Kiug  Henry  the  Third, 
in  the  21.  yeareof  his  raigne  (1236),  were  for  the  profile 
of  the  Citty,  and  p^ood  of  the  whole  realme,  toether 
repayring,  to  wit,  for  the  i)oore  to  drinke,  and  the 
rich  to  dresse  their  meate,  granted  to  the  CittifeDSi 
and  their  successors  by  one  Gilbert  -SaH/owk.  with 
liberty  to  conaay  water  from  the  Towne  of  TtfpV^^ 
by  pipes  of  leaae  into  their  Citty."—*  Survey,' •d- 
1603,  p.  17. 

On  the  following  page  Stow  again  says  :— 


T^mvU"  (\).  95),  lends  weight  to  the  aamestioo  in 


V 


» a  viL  Mat  18,1001.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


388 


"  In  the  yeare  1236,  oertaiue  Marchant  Strangers 
of  Cities  beyond  the  Seas,  to  wit,  Amiens.  Corby ^ 
and  NtUy  for  priuiledges  which  they  enioyea  in  this 
Cittie,  ij^ve  lUV.  towardes  the  charges  of  conueyiog 
water  from  the  towne  of  Teyhonu, 

I  lay  some  stress  on  Stow^s  expression  "  the 
town  of  Tyburn,"  because  Mb.  Loptie,  re- 
ferring to  the  date  of  Longbeard's  execution, 
1196,  says  *'that  we  have  evidence  that  then 
and  much  later  there  was  no  such  town  or 
village."  Between  1196  and  1236  there  is  an 
interval  of  only  forty  years,  so  that  it  would 
be  satisfactory  to  have  the  evidence  for  Mr. 
Loftie's  assertion.  But  where  was  this  ''  town 
of  Tyburn  "  ?    Stow  goes  on  to  say  :— 

*'  The  first  Cesterne  of  leade  castellated  with  stone 
in  the  Citty  of  London^  was  called  the  Great  Con- 
duit in  west  Cheape,  which  was  begunne  to  bee 
builded  in  the  yeare  1285.  Henry  WcUes  being  then 
Mayor,  the  water  course  from  Padington  to  James 
hed  hath  510.  rods,  from  James  hed  on  the  hil  to  the 
MewsgcUe,  102.  rods,  from  the  MewseocUe  to  the  Crosse 
in  Cheape  481  rods." 

In  the  margin  opposite  this  passage  is  the 
note,  "Water  conueyed  from  Teyborn  to 
London,"  and  on  p.  267  is  a  similar  passage 
relating  to  the  great  conduit  from  Paddington. 
The  inference  which  I  draw  from  these  pas- 
sages is  that  "the  town  of  Tyburn"  was 
situated  within  the  district  known  as  Pad- 
dington, and  that  it  probably  occupied  the 
spot  on  which  Spring  Street,  Conduit  Street^ 
and  thib  adjoining  thoroughfares  now  stand. 

Gilbert,  like  Brabantio,  had  one  fair 
daughter,  Alice  de  Sanford,  the  heiress  of 
all  his  broad  manors,  and  the  "  wardship  and 
marria|^e"of  this  lady  became  an  object  of 
competition  among  the  nobles  of  King 
Henry's  Court.  The  result  is  briefly  told  by 
Morant  and  Lysons  (*  Environs,' second  ed., 
voL  iL  part  ii.  d.  643).  Hugh  de  Vere,  fourth 
Earl  of  Oxford  and  Great  Chamberlain  of 
England,  is  stated  in  some  records  to  have 
bought  the  wardship  directly  from  the  king 
for  the  sum  of  one  thousand  marks,  while 
others  seem  to  represent  that  the  vendor  was 
Fulk  Basset,  Bishop  of  London,  who  had 
purchased  it  of  the  king  for  the  same  sum, 
perhaps  as  a  trustee.  However  this  may 
have  been,  the  earl  bestowed  the  young  lady 
in  marriage  on  his  eldest  son  Robert  who 
succeeded  him  as  fifth  Earl  of  Oxford  in  1263. 
Thenceforward  the  group  of  manors  inherited 
from  the  Sanfords,  including  Tyburn,  ap- 
pears to  have  been  regarded  as  an  appanage 
lor  the  female  line.  On  this  principle,  the 
manors  in  question  were  not  inherited  with 
the  earldom  of  Oxford  b^  the  eldest  son 
Robert^  but  were  granted  m  reversion  to  a 
daughter,  J  oan.  on  her  marriage  with  WiUiam 
de  Waneoy  eldest  son  of  John  de  Warren, 


Earl  of  Surrey  and  Sussex,  and  a  great* 
grandson  of  Hamelin  Plantagenet  an  illegiti- 
mate brother  of  King  Henry  II.  (Pat.  13  Ed- 
ward I.  m.  15).  In  this  patent  the  manors 
of  Tyburn,  Medmenham,  &c.,  are  distinctly 
stated  to  have  been  held  tn  capite  by  the  Earl 
of  Oxford,  as  pointed  out  by  Mr.  Button 
(ante^  p.  311) ;  and  this  would  seem  to  be  the 
place  m  which  I  may  avow  myself  as  the 
correspondent  of  ^N.  k  Q.'  who  was  alleged 
by  that  gentleman  to  have  tentatively 
suggested  that  the  Earl  of  Oxford  may 
have  exercised  his  manorial  right  of  the 
gallows  at  Tyburn,  and  that  that  locality 
may  from  that  cause  have  become  the  general 
place  of  execution.  Mb.  Loftie  questioned 
this  suggestion,  on  the  ground  that  the  De 
Veres  were  never  lords  of  the  manor  of 
Tvburn,  and  that  they  were  merely  tenants 
of  the  Abbess  of  Barking.  These  views, 
based  on  Lysons's  mistakes,  have,  I  think, 
been  disposed  of,  and  I  will  now  proceed  to 
state  my  reasons  for  submitting  the  very 
conjectural  opinion  in  question.  In  1293, 
22  Edward  I.,  Robert,  Earl  of  Oxford,  was 
summoned  by  a  writ  of  qtu)  warranto  to 
answer  for  his  claim  to  the  honours  of  his 
manors,  Kensington  and  Tyburn,  viz., 
the  ''view  of  frank-pledge,"  the  "assize 
of  bread  and  beer,''  "  infangenethef ,  utfan- 
genethef,  furca»r  To  this  the  earl  made 
reply,  so  far  as  regarded  his  liberties  in 
the  manor  of  Tyburn,  that  he  and  his  wife 
Alice  held  them  until  the  end  of  their  lives, 
and  that  they  would  then  be  inherited  by 
John,  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Warren, 
who  was  then  under  ageu  his  father  having 
previously  died.  This  replj^  not  being  deemea 
satisfactory,  a  further  wnt  was  issued,  and 
the  earl  was  compelled  to  admit  that  he  had 
no  liberty  in  Tyburn  except  the  view  of 
frank-pledge  and  those  things  which  apper- 
tained to  a  view  of  that  kind  CPlacita  de 
Quo  Warranto,'  pp.  478,  479).*  It  would 
appear  from  these  writs  that  while  the  tenure 
on  which  he  held  the  manor  prohibited  the 
earl  from  certain  liberties,  he  nevertheless 
exercised  the  privilege  of  the  gallows,  until 
called  to  account  for  doing  so.  There  is  no 
reference  whatever  to  the  Abbey  of  Barking 
in  these  documents.  W.  F.  Pbideaux. 

{Tohe  wnlinMutd,) 

[Gilbert  de  Sanford's  grant  is  recorded  in  the 
*  Calendar  of  Letter-Book  AJ  pp.  14, 15,  edited  by 
Dr.  Reginald  R.  Sharpe  for  the  Library  Committee 
of  the  Corporation.  The  grantor  sasrs :  **  Know  ye 
that  at  the  request  of  the  lord  the  King,  and  tor 
his  honour  and  reverence  and  the  common  benefit 

•  A  copy  of  \»Vie^x%\i  N«x\V.*\%  \6N«a's«r|  ««5soR«si3S>:^ 


384 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (S'^aviLMATUkUOL 


of  the  City  of  LoDdon  and  the  whole  realm,  I  have 
graDted  and  quitclaimed  to  the  said  City  and 
citizens,  for  me  and  my  heirs  for  ever,  all  those 
wells  and  their  waters  which  lie  in  my  fief  of 
Tyburne  near  the  i;)ublic  highway  leading  towards 
the  said  City  ;  to  bring  the  said  waters  by  a  conduit 
to  the  said  City  through  such  parts  of  my  fief  as 
they  may  deem  expedient."  Mention  is  also  made 
of  "the  tower  or  reservoir  where  the  waters  are 
collected."]         

EDMUND  SPENSER,  *  LOCRINE,*  AND 

^SELIMUS.* 

(Concluded  from  p.  St6.) 

Often,  when  comparing  Marlowe's  plays 
and  poems  with  each  otner,  1  have  been 
struck  by  the  close  manner  in  which  *  Dido ' 
repeats  *  Tamburlaine/  and  it  has  occurred  to 
me  that  perhaps  the  author  worked  con- 
currently at  the  two  dramas,  and  threw  *  Dido* 
aside  to  get  on  with  other  work.  Although 
Marlowe  left  ^  Dido '  unfinished  at  his  death, 
it  is  pretty  safe  to  say  that  his  friend  Thomas 
Nashe,  who  completed  it,  added  but  little  to 
the  play.  The  phrasing  of  '  Dido  *  and  *  Tam- 
burlaine '  is  sometimes  uncommonly  alike  and 
different  from  what  we  find  in  other  parts  of 
Marlowe's  work ;  and  occasionally  a  whole 
line  of  one  play  is  repeated  or  nearly  repeated 
in  the  other.  Note,  for  instance,  the  follow- 
ing :— 

Twmh,  And  clothe  it  in  a  crystal  livery. 

*  2  Tamb.,^1.  iii.,  p.  46,  col.  2. 

JEn.  And  olad  her  in  a  crystal  livery. 

•Dido,' v.,  p.  270,  col.  1. 

And  not  unseldom  we  come  across  bits  like 
these,  which  enable  us  to  pick  out  with  pre- 
cision parts  of  *'  Dido '  that  were  certainly 
penned  by  Marlowe  :— 
Tamb,    But   then   run    desperate   through    the 
thickest  throngs, 
Dreadless  of  blows,  of  bloody  wounds,  and  death. 
•2  Tamb.,*  in.  ii.,  p.  66,  coL  1. 
JEn,  Yet  flung  I  forth,  and,  desperate  of  my  life. 
Ran  in  the  thickest  throngs,  and,  &c. 

•Didoi'IL.p.  258,coLl. 

The  scene  from  which  the  latter  passage  is 
taken  is  undoubtedly  by  Marlowe  entirely, 
and  parts  of  it  copy  from  Spenser. 

'Dido'  also  contains  repetitions  of  other 
pieces  by  Marlowe,  as  the  following  will  show : 

^n.  Threatening  a  thousand  deaths   at   every 
glance.  *  Dido,'  II.,  p.  258,  col.  1. 

Threatening  a  thousand  deaths  at  every  glance. 
'  Hero  and  Leander,'  1st  Sest.,  1.  382. 

FawA,  Sweet  Helen,  make  me  immortal  with  a 

kiss.  '  Dr.  Faustus,'  p.  99,  coL  2. 

Dido,  And  he  'U  make  me  immortal  with  a  kiss. 

*Dido,*IV.,p.  260,  col.  1. 

Hence  it  is  apparent  not  only  that  Marlowe 
repeats  himaeli  occasionally,  but  that  Wi^ 


repetitions  in  '  Dido '  are  a  certain  guide  to 
portions  of  the  tragedy  that  are  mm  his 
band.  That  being  so,  I  will  now  compare 
*  Dido '  with  *  Selimus '  :— 

Dido.  And  wilt  thou  not  be  mov'd  with  Dido's 
words? 
Thy  mother  was  no  goddess,  peijur'd  man, 
Nor  Dardanos  the  author  of  thy  stock ; 
But  thou  art  sprung  from  Scythian  Caucasus, 
And  tigers  of  Hyrcania  gave  thee  suck. 

*Dido,*V.,p.272,coLl. 

Zonara.  Thou  art  not,  false  groom,  son  to  Bajazet ; 
He  would  relent  to  hear  a  woman  weep, 
But  thou  wast  born  in  desert  Caucasns, 
And  the  Hyrcanian  tigers  gave  thee  suck  ; 
ICnowing  thou  wert  a  monster  like  themselves. 

'SeUmus,'U.  123&-9. 

The  lines  are  paralleled  a^ain  in  *  Edward  IL,' 
p.  219,  col.  2,  where  the  king  tells  Liehtbom 
that  the  story  of  what  he  (the  king)  has  had 
to  endure  would  melt  a  heart  hewn  from  the 
Caucasus,  and  make  it  relent  at  his  misery. 

For  style  and  phrasing  compare  the  follow- 
ing, and  note  how  Guise  and  Selimus  echo 
each  other  again  : — 

Ouiu.    Let  mean  conceits   and  bcuer  men  feac 
death : 
Tat,  they  are  peasants ;  /  am  Duke  of  Guise. 

*  Massacre  at  Paris,'  p.  212,  coL  1. 

Selimus.  Let  Mahound's  laws  be  locked  up  in  thei.  i 
ease, 
And  meaner  men  and  of  a  baser  spirit, 
In  virtuous  actions  seek  for  glorious  merit, 
/  count  it,  &c.  « Selimus,*  U.  246-9. 

Ouise,  I  am  a  juror  in  the  holy  league. 
And  therefore  hated  of  the  Protestants : 
What  should  I  do  but  stand  upon  my  guard  ? 

•  Massacre  at  Paris,*  p.  240,  coL  !• 
Sel,  But  for  I  see  the  Schoolmen  are  prepar'd 

To  plant  'gainst  me  their  bookish  ordinance, 
I  mean  to  stand  on  a  sententious  guard. 

;  Selimus,*  11.  303-S- 

Thirsting  with  sovereignty  and  love  of  arms. 

*lTamb.,'II.  i.,p.  13,  ool.  1. 
Love  of  rule  and  kingly  sovereignty. 

*SeUmus,*L20a 

But  when  the  imperial  lion's  flesh  is  gor'd. 
He  rends  and  tears  it  with  his  wrathful  paw. 

•EdwardIL,*p.  212,coL2: 
As  when  a  lion,  rav'ning  for  his  prey, 
Falleth  upon  a  drove  othomed  bulls. 
And  rends  them  strongly  in  his  kingly  paws. 

•SeUmus,'lL  2495-7. 
As  princely  lions,  when  they  rouse  themselves. 
Stretching  their  paws,  and  threatening  h«rai  of 
beasts,  kc. 

*1  Tamb.,' Lit,  p.  10,  coll. 

And  in  your  shields  display  jrour  ranoorous  roioda 
'Edward  XL,*  p.  196,  coLl. 
Charactering  honour  in  hit  batter'd  shield. 
\  *8ellmiii,'LA 


9»  am  Mat  18. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


385 


Zeno.  Sweet  Tamburlaine,  when  wilt  thou  leave 
theaearma? 

Tctmb.  When  heaven  shall  cease  to  move  on  both 
the  poles, 
And  when  the  ground,  whereon  my  soldiers  march, 
Shall  rise  aloft  and  touch  the  homdd  moon ; 
And  not  before,  my  sweet  Zenocrate. 

*2Tamb.,*p.  46,  col.  2. 

8el,  Queen  of  Amasia,  wilt  thou  yield  thyself? 

Queen,  First  shall  the  overflowing  Euripus 
Of  sweet  Eubea  stop  his  restless  course. 
And  Phoeb's  bright  globe  bring  the  day  from  the 

And  quench  his  hot  beams  in  the  Eastern  sea. 

I^SeUmus,'  U.  2383-7. 

Send  out  thy  furies  from  thy  fiery  hall ; 
The  pitiless  Erynnis  arm'd  with  whips 
And  all  the  damnM  monsters  of  black  hell. 

*Selimus,Ml.  1320-2. 
In  few,  the  blood  of  Hydra,  Lema's  bane. 
The  juioe  of  hebon,  and  Cocytus'  breath, 
And  all  the  poisons  of  the  Stygian  pool,  ko, 

*  The  Jew  of  Malta.^m.,  p.  IW,  col.  1. 

Then  haste,  Cosroe,  to  be  king  alone. 


to  De  king  alone. 

1  Tamb.,* XL  iii.,  p.  16,  col.  2. 


Now  am  I  king  alone,  and  none  but  I. 

*Selimu8,*  1.  2520. 

And  seek  not  to  enrich  th^r  followers 
By  lawless  rapine  from  a  silly  maid. 

*  I  Tamb.,'  I.  ii.,  p.  9,  coL  2. 
Enrich  thy  soldiers  with  robberies. 

*8elimu8.M.  2380. 

I  know,  sir,  what  it  is  to  kill  a  roan ; 

It  works  remorse  of  conscience  in  me,  Ac. 

*2Tamb.,*IV.  i.,  p.  61,  col.  1. 
8o  this  is  well :  for  I  am  none  of  those 
That  make  a  conscience  for  to  kill  a  man,  ko. 

^elimua,'  11.  1729-30. 

Valiant  Theridamas, 
The  chief  captain  of  Mycetes'  host. 

•  1  Tamb.*  (4to  version),  Dyce,  p.  7,  col.  2. 
Ottrante  is  my  name ; 
Chief  captain  of  the  Tartar's  mighty  host. 

*  Seliraus,*  11.  711-2. 

For  he  is  groes  and  like  the  massy  earth 

That  moves  not  upwards,  nor  by  princely  deeds 

Doth  mean  to  suar  above  the  highest  sort. 

•  1  Tamb.,'  II.  vii.,  p.  18,  col.  2. 
Oh  !  th'  are  two  wings  wherewith  I  use  to  fly. 
And  soar  above  the  common  sort. 

*Seiimus,'U.  1738  9. 
That  e'er  made  passage  thorough  Persian  arms. 
These  are  the  wiugs  shall  make  it  fly,  &c. 

•  1  Tamb.,*  IL  iii.,  p.  16,  col.  2. 
And  hewing  passage  through  the  Persians. 

*Selimus,' 1.2494. 

Who  made  the  channel  overflow  with  blood. 

•  Edward  II.,' p.  209,  col.  1. 
The  ohannelB  run  like  riverets  of  blood. 


When  she  that  rules  in  Rhamnus'  golden  gates. 

*  I  Tamb.,*  II.  iii.,  p.  16,  col.  1. 
Chief  patroness  of  Ramus'  golden  gates. 

*  Selimus,'  1.  682. 

I  hold  the  Fates  bound  fast  in  iron  chains, 
And  with  my  hand  turn  Fortune's  wheel  about. 

*lTamb.,'I.  ii.,  p.  11,  col.  2. 
Thou  hast  not  Fortune  tiM  in  a  chain. 

*Selimu8,*  1.2420. 

Begin  betimes  *.  Occasion 's  bald  behind  ; 
Slip  not  thine  opportunity,  &c. 

*The  Jew  of  MalU,'  V.,  p.  176,  col.  2. 
Wisdom  commands  to  follow  tide  and  wind, 
And  catch  the  front  of  swift  Occasion,  &c. 

'  Selimus,*  IL  274-6. 

I  '11  disinherit  him  and  all  the  rest, 

For  I  '11  rule  France,  but  they  shall  wear  the  crown, 

And,  if  they  storm,  I  then  may  pull  them  down. 

*  Massacre  at  Paris,'  p.  236,  col.  1. 
TheU;  Selimus,  take  thou  it  [the  crown]  in  his  stead ; 
And  if  at  this  thy  boldness  he  dare  frown. 
Or  but  resist  thy  will,  then  pull  him  down. 

*  Selimus,'  11.  285-7. 

In  whose  sweet  person  is  compris'd  the  sum 
Of  Nature's  skill  and  heavenly  majesty. 

*lTamb.,'V.  i.,  p.  32,col.  1. 
It  cannot  be,  that  he  in  whose  high  thoughts 
A  map  of  many  valours  is  enshrined,  kc 

J  Selimus,'  11.  181-2. 

The  chiefest  god,  first  mover  of  that  sphere,  Ac 

*  1  Tamb.,'  IV.  ii.,  p.  26,  coL  2. 
But  oh  thou  Supreme  Architect  of  all, 

First  mover  of  those  tenfold  crystal  orbs. 
Where  all  those  moving  and  unmoving  eyes,  kc, 

*  Selimus,' fl.  1440-2. 
By  heaven,  and  all  the  moving  orbs  thereof,  kc. 

•  Edward  II.,'  p.  204,  col.  2. 
Earth's  barrenness,  and  all  men's  hatred. 
Inflict  upon  them,  thou  great  Primxis  Motor  ! 

'  The  Jew  of  Malta,'  p.  160,  col.  1. 

Whose  shape  is  figure  of  the  highest  God. 

*  2  Tamb.,'  II.  ii.,  p.  60,  col.  2. 
And  please  the  anger  of  the  highest  God. 

'Selimus,' 1.2148. 
Nor  yet  thyself,  the  anger  of  the  Highest. 

•  2Tamb.,'  V.  L,  p.  68,  ool.  2. 
So  surely  will  the  vengeance  of  the  Highest, 
And  jealous  anger  of  his  fearful  arm,  &c. 

* 2  Tamb.,'  II.  i.,  p.  60,  col.  1. 

By  that  blessed  Christ, 
And  by  the  tomb  where  he  was  buried,  &c. 

B^  the  holy  rites  of  Mahomet, 

His  wondrous  tomb,  and  sacred  Alcoran. 

'Selimus,'  11.  1964-6  and  1170-1. 
By  Mahomet  my  kinsman's  sepulchre. 
And  by  the  holy  Alcoran  I  swear,  ^bc. 

*  1  Tamb. '  III.  iii.,  p.  22,  col.  2. 
Also  see  * 2  Tamb.,'  I.  i.,  p.  46,  col.  1. 
And  SO  on,  tVvtoxx^Vi  i£a.\v^  \»afi&^Vst  Wi»?*^ 
not  neatly  eitJ^wx^X^A  >i>afe\«X.  dl  ^^xs^«^  ^«»»r 


386 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES-       [9*  b.  vn.  mat  is.  iwl 


B&gm  that  could  be  cited  from  *Selimua'  and 
Marlowe's  works. 

I  claim  that  *SeHmiin*  is  by  Christopher 
Marlowe,  and  not  by  Robert  Greene  ;  and  I 
btirably  augi^est  that  it  h  Marlowe*s  firi^t 
play,  and  was  immediately  followed  by  'The 
Fir^t  Part  of  Tamburlaine/ 

In  conclusion,  I  have  to  add  that,  although 
I  did  not  know  it  until  after  I  had  made  out 
the  relation  between  *  Selimus '  and  '  Locnne/ 
that  relation  had  been  discovered  by  Mr. 
Daniel,  who  announee<i  it  in  the  Atkemf^urti 
of  16  April,  1898.  iforeover,  Mr.  Churton 
Collins  knew  that  both  'Locrine*  and  *Seli- 
muB '  were  indebted  to  Spen^r,  and  he  f leals 
with  the  matter  in  his  work  on  Greene, 
written  eigliteen  months  ago,  but  not  yet 
issued  frara  the  Clarendon  Press.  I  have 
not  seen  Mr.  Collins'a  evidence,  nor  have 
I  ever  had  acceaa  to  Mr.  Daniel's  note  in  the 
Athefiamni.  Nobody,  however,  seema  to  have 
ever  thought  of  ifarlowe  aa  the  author  of 
*  Selimus  '—a  fact  which  strikes  me  as  being 
very  strange.  Charles  Crawford, 

53,  Hampden  Road,  Horn&ey,  N. 


'' KiNKAJOU,"  — This  zoological  term  has 
always  been  more  or  less  <*l  a  puzzle  to  lexi- 
cographers, French  a^i  well  as  English.  Littre 
gives  it  without  etymolos^y.  Webster  says  it 
IS  the"  native  American  name,"  which  is  safe, 
but  vague.  The  *  Century  Dictionary'  calls 
it  South  American,  which  is  incorrect, 
though  the  term  is  at  present  conBned  to  a 
Bouth  American  mammal.  The  only  precise 
statement  is  that  of  the  *  Encyclopajdic  Dic- 
tionary,* viz.,  that  it  is  from  **  caira/fm,  the 
native  name.**  As  no  authority  is  quoted* 
this  is  probably  a  mere  guess,  but  it  afforded 
me  a  starting-point  for  inv&stigation ;  and 
from  the  evidence  which  I  have  collected  it 
appears  to  be  actually  not  far  from  the  truth. 

The  first  thing  to  do  was  obviously  to  find 
how  the  word  was  used  in  old  works  of  travel 
After  some  search,  1  came  upon  the  *  Histoire 
Naturelle  d©  TAmdrique  Septentrionale,^  by 
Nicolas  Denys,  1672.  VoL  ii.  chap,  xxi,  gives 
a  full  account  of  the  qutncajou,  as  this  writer 
spells  it  (p.  328,  "  Ijes  renards  et  le  qmncajoti 
font  la  cnasse  ensemble,"  &c,).  This  proved 
that  in  the  seventeenth  century  it  wan  looked 
upon  a^  Canadian.  My  next  step  was  to 
ascertain  whether  any  trace  of  it  remained  in 
the  languages  of  the  Canadian  Indians  of  to- 
day. Bishop  Baraga's  '  Otchipwe  Dictionary/ 
1878,  gave  me  *'  Owing imfigt,  wolverine,  car- 
cajou. Similarly,  Cuoq*a  *Lexique  Algonquin,' 
188$f  h&s  "  Kwinpuffuige^  carcAjou,  en  anglais 
wolverim, "  A  riddJe  of  long  standini^U  tbiaa 
solvedf  in  time^  I  hope,  for  the  forthoommi^ 


volume  of  the  *N.E.D.'  Kinkajou  is  a 
''doublet"  of  carcajou.  Originally  both 
names  were  applied  to  the  wolverine,  but 
in  the  eighteenth  century  Buffon  detached 
kinkajou^  and  his  successors  have  confirmed 
his  regrettable  transfer  of  this  North  Ameri- 
can name  to  a  South  American  quadruped. 
Jas.  Platt,  Jun. 

**  We  don't  want  to  fight,  but  by  Jingo 
IF  WE  DO."— The  death  of  "the  Great"  Mac- 
dermott,  the  singer  of  this  song,  so  popular 
at  the  music-halls  in  the  late  seventies, 
deserves  a  note.  The  song,  it  will  be  remem- 
bered, was  intended  as  a  laudation  of  the 
policy  of  Lord  Beaconsfield,  and  was  trans- 
lated into  almost  every  European  language, 
including  that  of  Russia.  Trie  author  was 
Mr.  G.  W.  Hunt,  "the  Kipling  of  the  halls." 
I  believe  it  is  generally  recognized  that  Mr. 
George  Jacob  Uolyoake  originated  the  name 
of  Jingo  as  a  term  of  reproach  to  those  who 
supported  the  late  statesman's  conduct  of 
foreign  affairs.  N.  S.  S. 

fSee  9^  S.  iii.  228,  334 ;  vi.  61,  74,  149,  312,  373; 
vii.  10,  232.] 

"  Lability."— This  word  occurs  as  early  as 
1554.  In  a  translation  of  that  date  of  a  I^tin 
petition,  in  the  third '  Miscellany '  of  the  Mait- 
land  Club,  p.  65,  we  find  among  the  considera- 
tions alleged  by  the  petitioners  the  words : 
"  The  lability  and  breuitie  of  tjrmes  maneris 
and  of  men  in  this  wale  of  teiris  beand  con- 
siderit."  It  is  pleasing  to  see  that  "this 
svale"  is  a  phrase  that  did  not  originate  with 
a  nineteenth-century  novelist  Q.  V. 

[The  earliest  quot-ation  in  the  *  H.E.D.'  is  164&] 

Hogarth's  House,  Chis wick.— Hogarth's 
house  is,  it  appears,  about  to  be  pulled  down, 
and  the  site,  together  with  the  garden  (which 
contains  nearly  an  acre),  occupied  by  flata 
The  house,  which  is  well  known  from  the 
illustrations  which  have  appeared  from  time 
to  time,  is  a  good  specimen  of  the  art  of  the 
early  Georgian  period,  and  is  well  worthy  of 
preservation.  A  subscription  has  been  set  on 
root  with  that  object,  but  in  view  of  the 
value  of  the  land  it  is  extremely  doubtful 
whether  sufficient  money  will  be  raised  to 
save  the  house  from  destruction. 

There  seems  no  doubt  that  the  house  was 
inhabited  by  Hogarth,  but  the  suggestion 
that  it  was  previously  occupied  by  Sir  James 
Thomhill  appears  without  foundation.  The 
house  was  for  a  short  time  in  the  occupation 
of  the  Rev.  H.  F.  Gary,  M.A.  (1772-1844X 
vicar  of  Abbots  Bromley,  Stafib,  and  trans- 
l&tor  of  Dante.    In  the  memoir  of  Caiy  l^ 


9»8.vilmay18.i90i.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


387 


"A  fashionable  chapel  in  London  was  not  suited 
to  his  retiring  habits  [Gary  was  at  one  time  reader 
at  Berkeley  Chapel];  he  therefore  gladly  availed 
himself  of  the  offer  of  the  curacy  and  lectureship  of 
Chiswick,  of  which  parish  the  Rev.  Thomas  Frere 
Bowerbank  was  vicar.  This  made  his  removal  to 
the  sphere  of  his  duties  requisite ;  he  therefore 
purchased  a  house  at  Chiswick  which  had  formerly 
been  the  residence  of  Sir  James  Thomhill  and  his 
son-in-law  Hogarth.  Here  he  fixed  his  residence 
in  the  summer  of  the  year  1814."—*  Mem.  of  Gary/ 
i.  313. 

Uogarth  was  admitted  as  a  copyholder  of 
the  manor  of  Chiswick  13  September,  1749, 
and  his  predecessor  was  G.  A.  Kuperty,  clerk, 
who  was  admitted  15  July,  1721.  Mrs. 
Hogarth  lived  in  the  house  in  Hogarth  Lane, 
Chiswick,  until  1789.  John  Hebb. 

14,  Spring  Gardens,  S.  W. 

Introduction  of  the  Episcopal  Wig.— 
It  is  statefl  in  All  the  Year  Jiound,  22  March, 
1873,  and  in  other  publications,  that  Arch- 
bishop Tillotson  is  said  to  have  been  the 
first  spiritual  peer  who  wore  a  wig  ;  but  this 
is  not  quite  certain.  There  can  be  no  doubt 
that  the  spiritual  bench  gradually  followed 
the  usage  of  laymen.  It  would  bo  interest- 
ing to  Team  on  what  authority  this  state- 
ment is  made. 

In  the  portrait  of  Archbishop  Tillotson  at 
Clare  College,  Cambridge,  that  ecclesiastic  is 
represented  in  his  episcopal  robes  and  wear- 
ing his  natural  hair.  He  was  in  early  life  a 
Fellow  of  this  college. 

William  Andrews. 

Hull  Royal  Institution. 

Crosier  and  Pastoral  Staff.  (See  ante' 
p.  231.)— Your  correspondent  Lord  Melville 
writes  as  if  he  thought  that  the  term 
"crosier"  denoted  something  different  from 
a  pastoral  staflf — namely,  an  archbishop's 
cross.  But  it  has  been  shown  over  and  over 
again  that  to  call  an  archbishop's  cross  a 
crosier  is  a  modern  blunder,  ana  that  both 
"crosier"  and  "pastoral  staff"  are  terms 
properly  applied  to  a  bishop's  crook.  I  may 
refer  to  an  article  on  the  use  of  these  terms 
in  Archceologia^  Hi.  709-32,  and  to  a  letter  in 
the  Church  Times  of  22  March  from  the  Rev. 
G.  S.  Tyack,  who  appears  to  have  come  to  the 
right  conclusion  by  an  independent  investiga- 
tion on  historical  lines.  He  also  calls  atten- 
tion to  the  ritual  blunder— not  yet  exploded, 
after  all  that  has  been  written  about  it — 
that  an  archbishop  should  hold  his  cross, 
instead  of  the  episcopal  crosier,  in  the  act  of 
blessing.  The  rubrics  in  the  Pontificals  and 
the  unoroken  Roman  tradition  are  quite  con- 
clusive on  this  point,  and  pictorial  repre- 
sentations—  symbolical,  and  not  realistic, 
which,  however,  could  misleiKl  no  one  at  the 


time  when  they  were  executed-^should  carry 
no  weight  in  a  question  of  this  sort.  A  repre- 
sentation of  an  archbishop  with  a  cross  in  his 
hand  is  as  purely  symbolical  as  is  a  picture 
of  St.  Denys  walking  about  in  his  pontifical 
vestments  with  his  mitred  head  in  his  hands, 
or  one  of  St.  Cuthbert  in  bed  with  nothing 
on  but  his  mitre.  If  archbishops  sometimes 
carried  their  own  crosses,  or  still  do  so,  out  of 
church,  that  is  another  matter.  J.  T.  F. 
Winterton,  Doncaster. 

*  Notes  and  Queries'  for  Sale.— I  suggest, 
for  the  benefit  of  recent  subscribers,  that 
when  a  long  set  or  scarce  indexes  of  the  pub- 
lication are  offered  for  sale  the  fact  should  be 
notified,  and  so  enable  them  to  complete  their 
sets.  To  test  whether  this  suggestion  meets 
with  the  approval  of  the  Editor,  I  send  the 
following  extract  from  a  catalogue,  recently 
received,  of  Thomas  Thome,  bookseller,  49, 
Blackett  Street,  Newcastle-upon-Tyne  :— 

**  Notes  and  Queries,  from  commencement. 
November,  1849,  to  December,  1861.  First  ana 
Second  Series  complete,  with  the  exceedingly 
scarce  Index  to  both  Series,  together  26  vols.,  on- 
ginal  cloth,  6^." 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

[We  ourselves  paid  5^.  15«.  for  the  Index  to  the 
Third  Series.  A  London  bookseller  o£fered  us  sub- 
sequently the  Indexes  to  the  first  three  Series 
for  91,] 

"Complain."— The  *H.E.D.'  ^ives  as  the 
earliest  quotation  for  this  word  in  the  sense 
of  "to  groan  or  creak  from  overstraining," 
used  of  a  ship,  the  London  Gazette  of  1722. 
The  following  is  much  older  (1608) :  "  For  she 
complained  already  in  many  places,  she  being 
a  very  old  ship"  (Dan vers,  'Xetters  received 
by  the  East  India  Company  from  its  Servants 
in  the  East,'  i.  19).  W.  Crooke 

Langton  House,  Charlton  Kings. 

Literary  Errors.— The  Onlooker  is  a  three- 
penny paper— expensive  enough,  in  all  con- 
science. I  have  ]ust  picked  up  a  specimen 
copy  of  it  dated  30  March.  Opening  casually 
at  p.  649, 1  read  the  following  :— 

"An  Oxford  undergraduate  sends  an  effusion, 
original  I  think,  whien  shows  some  knowledge  of 
feminine  nature,  is  [*iV]  apt  at  this  time  of  the  year 
to  turn  longingly  in  the  direction  of  Paris  :— 
Mrs.  Gill 
Was  very  ill, 
And  nought  would  her  recover. 
But  she  must  see 
The  Tuillerie, 
And  wander  in  the  Louver." 

Shade  of  Theodore  Hook  !  can  Oxford  under- 

fiuds  thus  easily  hoax.  \iivl\t»».\^  ^>\««Oi 
uat  halt  aa  Vvoux  ^i«wwlA^  \>a»^  \b»^  *^^ 


388 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*8.vilMat18.iwl 


discovery^  froto  «  peruaal  of  an  essay  in  her 
*  Critical  Studies,'  thai  the  famous  Ouida  has 
not  the  faintest  notion  of  the  ineaning  of  the 
word  **  condign."  Ceiticastee. 


Wb  rauBt  requent  correspomknU  desiruig  in  for* 
m&tiaD  on  family  matters  of  only  prjva,te  intereBt 
lo  affix  their  names  and  addreaaeB  to  tbeir  qiieriea, 
iQ  order  tb«.t  the  answers  maybe  addresaed  l-o  them 
direct. 

"  Attk/'—Ib  it  supposed  that  ati€  in  terri- 
torial aurnaraes  in  medieval  reeonls  is  equiva- 
lent to  de  or  de  la:  or  did  atfe  denote  actual 
residence  at  the  place  named^  and  d€  the  place 
of  origin  of  the  individual  or  his  family  ? 
Both  atU  and  de  or  de  la  ijccur  in  the  same 
Patent  Roll  or  other  <Jocument,  in  the  names 
of  different  persons.  L. 

PoiM  BY  PaiLiF  ScAEPELU.  —  Cardinal 
Bartolini  in  *Gli  Atti  di  S-  Agnese'  men- 
tiona  "a  rather  elegant  poem,  in  five  cant<>«," 
corajKMed  by  Philip  Scarpelli  and  dedicate*! 
to  Pope  Paul  v.,  1  September,  1616.  Can 
any  one  say  where  a  copy  of  this  poem  is  to 
be  seen  1  Frances  C,  Wiai.e. 

Versks  by  Lady  Falkland,— In  "The 
Lady  Falkland  :  her  Life  from  an  MS.  in 
the  Imperial  Archives  at  Lille,  edited  by 
Kichard  Simpson,  London,  1861/'  it  ia  stated 
on  p.  39  that  she  wrote  in  verse  the  lives 
of  St.  Mary  Magdalene,  St,  Agnes,  and  St. 
Elizabeth  of  Portugal  Were  any  of  Lady 
Falkland  s  verBes  ever  published,  or  do  they 
exist  in  manuscript  1    Feances  C.  Weale. 

29,  Cr^cent  Grove,  Clapbam  Commajij  S.  W, 

OaMBEIDOE     llBflVKRaiTY     IN     TBI     SfiVEK- 

teenth  Century.— W^^^.re^s'^^^^e  to  some 
researches  I  am  making  into  the  history  of 
a  meralDer  of  St.  John^s  College,  Cambridge, 
who  was  resident  about  1632, 1  a  hall  be  glafi  if 
any  of  your  readen*  can  give  me  information 
as  to  the  best  authorities  to  consult  on  the 
university  in  general  and  Sl  John's  College 
in  particular  at  that  period.  Laicus. 

Books  on  Manners,  Deportment,  and 
Etiquette. — I  wish  to  make  a  collection  of 
these  publisjhed  before  1800  {booksellers, 
please  note).  Can  your  correspondents  give 
me  the  titles  of  any  such  ] 

Edward  Heron-Alleh. 

3,  North  wick  Terrace,  Maida  Hill,  N.  W.  i 

SHAKEdPEARB  QUERIES.— Can  any  one  help 
me  to  Bnd  the  reference  to  two  alleged  facts  | 
oonneoted  with  Shakspere  t    (l)ThQ  auppoaei 


faculty  granted  (was  it  to  Delia  Bacon  1)  to 
open  the  ptiet's  tomb.  (2)  The  statement 
that  Shakspere,  Jon  son,  and  others  at 
Spenser  s  funeral  wrote  epitaphs  and  threw 
them  into  the  grave.  Eeoinald  Haines, 
Uppingham. 

Rev.  John  Knox,  1787.— I  have  seen  it 
Rtated  that  the  Rev.  John  Knox,  minister  of 
the  Gospel  at  Slam  man  an,  Stirlingshire,  who 
died  1787,  had  stated  to  Lord  Keith  in  177® 
that  he  was  the  heir  of  the  Knoxes  of  Ran- 
furly.  Can  any  of  vour  readers  conHrm  this, 
or  say  where  Lord  Keith 'a  stateinent  may  be 
found  ?  fl.  B. 

Authors  Wanteb.— The  following  quota- 
tions occur  in  the  lectures  or  essays  of  William 
H  aal  i  1 1.     \V  ho  are  the  au  tho  rs  1 

h  And  viiioi^s,  as  i>oetic  eye*  avow, 

Hang  on  each  ]e«f  and  cling  to  every  bough. 

2.  Obscurity  her  curtaiu  roaud  them  drew. 
And  JSiren  is  loth  a  dull  quietus  sung. 

3.  Like  strength  re^Kiainji  on  hia  own  right  u>m. 

4.  A  aenise  of  joy 

To  the  bare  iree^  and  moutitami  bare 
And  grafls  in  the  gi-een  fields. 

5.  A  certain  lender  biooro  hia  face  o*erap«sad> 

6.  Ob  memory !  shield  m©  from  the  world'*  poof 

strife, 
And  give  tbo^  sicenes  thine  everl^tmg  life. 
7-  Cttlm  conleniplation  and  poetic  ease, 
8.  We  perceive  a  Boftncss  coming  over  the  b«4rt 
of  a  nation,  and   the  iron   acales  that  fence  ina 
harden  it  melt  and  drop  off. 

9.  Kind  and  affable  to  me  had  been  hii  Gon^- 
ftoenfiioti,  and  should  be  hououred  with  laiti^E 
regard. 
IQ.  Beauty  out  of  favour  and  on  crutches. 

D.  NicHot  Bmith- 

Edlnburgh. 

Pews  annexed  to  Houses. — Many  re«)^n 
of  'N.  ik  Q/  must  have  seen  conveyaucea  tjf 
measuag_es  to  which  a  pew  in  the  pAriit 
church  is  ex  pressed  to  be  annexed.  Ih»ve 
seen  such  grants  of  pews  from  the  latter 
part  of  the  seventeenth  century  do*ii  ^ 
about  1850,  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  the 
practice,  during  this  period,  of  includiag  * 
pew  as  appurtenant  to  a  messuage  ^ 
cojumon.  Is  it  known  when  the  practiee 
began,  and  was  it  earlier  than  the  time  which 
I  have  mentioned  1  1  should  bo  glad  to  have 
references,  or  quotations  from  deeds,  M  * 
propose  tAy  deal  with  the  subject  in  a  book. 
Is  there  anything  to  show  that  every  ancJei^l 
messuage  had  its  pew  1  S.  0.  Amr- 

II,  Wc^lboome  Road,  Sheffield. 

'Kathleen  Mavournekn.'— Mr.  Bartlett, 
,  m  \\S&  N^T^   i^ail  '  Dictionary   of  Familiir 


9»&V1L  Mat  18. 19010        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


389 


jmotations,'  edition  1900,  ascribes  this  very 
pretty  song  to  Anne  Crawford  (1734*1S01). 
[»  this  correct  i  I  have  an  impresftion  that 
t  is  not  ao  old  as  this.  Who  was  the 
composer  of  the  music  t 

JONATHAl^  BODCHIER, 

Troubadour  akd  Daisy.— It  would  have 
been  natural  foi  the  daisy  to  be  lauded  in 
troubadour  song^— metaphorically  or  other- 
wise—but I  have  been  unable  to  discover 
that  it  is  BO.  If  any  reader  knows  of  in- 
atances,  will  he  be  so  good  m  to  notify  thera  1 

Meoa^, 

Labtt    Pubbeck   and  hee  Son.— Gray  to 

Wharton,   18  Sept,   1759,  mentions  having 
foand  in  the  British  Museum  *Lady  Purbeck 
and  her  Son  a  Eeojarkabie  Case/    I  should 
be  glad  of  any  clue  to  this.     D,  C.  Tovey, 
Won>le«don  fectory,  Guildford. 

Dendritic  Mabkihgs  in  Paper.  — In  the 
iifat  ten  volumes  of  *N-  (k  Q/  there  were 
occasionally  dendritic  marking^i,  probably 
due  to  particlea  of  magnetic  oxide  of  iron. 
Could  you  nay  if  the  paper  used  was  made 
wholly  or  partially  from  wood  pulp  ] 

J.  M, 

"Parlooe."— "Originally  the  room  in  a 
nnnnerj'  or  monastery  set  apart  for  recep- 
tions or  converse."  Such  is  the  explanation 
I  find  in  a  dictionary.  Going  back  to  the 
sixteenth  century,  we  find,  from  a  translation 
of  *  Adrian  us  Junius,  the  Physician's  Remem- 
brancer/ that  a  summer  parlour  or  banquet- 
ing houne  and  a  "house  of  plea-^ure"  were 
synonymous-'-that  there  was  a  "  supping 
parler"  below  as  well  as  above,  €mmxtis^ 
csenaetdum.  The  French  jmrloir  hardly  con- 
veys the  same  meaning,  for  might  it  not  be 
&  small  saloon  or  a  withdrawing- room  I  and 
yet  probably  this  comea  nearest  the  ordinary 
lignificance  of  the  word  in  every -day  use. 
In  Scotland,  at  least,  the  word  "parlour" 
forty  years  ago  generally  denoted  a  reception, 
meal  -  taking,  and  general  -  purpose  room. 
pradualtv,  however,  this  word  gave  place 
in  many  nouses  to  the  more  fashionable  "  sit- 
ting-room," In  recent  years  "parlour"  has 
reasserted  itself,  while  in  America  I  believe  it 
ta  in  that  meaning  almost  universally  used. 
It  is  not  the  **  to-day"  use  of  the  word  I  desire 
bo  call  attention  to,  but  rather  to  elicit,  if 
posaiblet  its  correct  and  original  meaning. 
I  am  not  aware  of  the  ground  upon  which 
the  translators  of  the  Bible  baaed  the  use  of 
the  word,  and  it  may  not  be  generally  remem^ 
bered  that  "  parlour "  appears  in  Judges  iii, 
20,  23,  W©  there  find  that  Eglon,  King  of 
Moftb,  whan  he  reomved  Ehudj  did  ^  in  '^his 


summer  parlour,  which  he  had  for  himself 
alone."  In  the  margin  it  is  noted,  "Upper 
chamber  of  cooling/^  As  we  are  here  con- 
fronted with  the  statement  that  the  room 
referred  to  wa^  "  for  himself  alone,"  the  con- 
clusion could  hardly  be  come  to  that  it  was 
a  reception-room.  Verse  22,  I  think,  is  an 
additional  proof,  if  wanted,  that  the  room 
in  question  was  not  a  "parlour,"  but  one 
to  which  Eglon  retired  to  escape  the  unbear- 
able heat  of  the  summer,  if  not  for  certain 
ablutionary  purposes.  What  then  guided  the 
translators  to  the  use  of  the  word  *'  parlour  *'  ? 
What  was  its  origin,  andhowwasit  correctly 
applied  ?  Ai^fred  Chas,  Jonas. 

[*'In  isetivo  coenaculo''  are  the  words  in  th« 
Vulgate,] 

Roman  Catholic  Records.— Are  there  any 
records  remaining  relative  to  marriages^  bap- 
tisms, and  burials  of  Roman  Catholics  m 
Ireland  during  the  eighteenth  century  I  If 
ao,  where  are  they,  a  no  how  can  they  be  con- 
sulted 1    An  answer  will  greatly  oblige  an 

American, 

Browne  Family,— In  the  year  1884  a 
gentleman,  Mr,  E.  Blacker  Morgan,  of  Addis- 
combe,  Croydon,  was  compiling  a  genea- 
logical memoir  of  the  family  of  Browne  of 
Cavers  wall,  co,  Stafford,  in  the  sixteenth 
century,  and  of  the  family  of  Browne  of 
Can gh ley,  co.  Salop,  connected  with  them* 
Can  any  one  give  me  information  on  this 
subject?  P.  H.  P. 

Designation  of  FoEKiaNERS  in  Mexico. — 
Can  any  of  your  numerous  contributors 
inform  me  of  the  real  meaning  and  deriva- 
tion of  the  words  used  to  designate  foreigners 
in  Mexico,  viz.,  ^nnyo^  English  man ;  Chabacko^ 
Frenchman  ;  Gmhumn^  Spaniard  1  Although 
I  know  Mexico  fairly  well,  I  have  never  been 
able  to  obtain  a  satisfactory  explanation. 

Grinoo. 

Incised  Circles  on  Stones, ^This  subject 
was  first  brought  into  prominence  bv  a  paper 
read  by  the  Rev,  William  Green  well,  F.S.A*, 
at  the  Newcastle  Congress  of  the  Royal 
Archaeological  Institute  in  the  year  1852. 
Sir  Gardner  Wilkinson  referred  to  the 
question  in  his  communication  on  *The 
Rock- Basins  on  Dartmoor  and  some  British 
liemains  in  England '  before  the  British 
Arch  Geological  Association  in  June,  1660, 
The  Very  Rev,  James  Graves  dealt  with 
those  in  Ireland  in  a  paper  Ijefore  the  Royal 
Irish  Academy  ;  and  others  were  discovered 
in  1864  at  Achnabreek,  near  Lochgilphead, 
Argyllshire.    The  explanation  givea  ot  tK% 


390 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9^8.vn.MAYi8.Moi. 


Can  any  reader  refer  me  to  later  contro- 
versies on  the  matter?  I  believe  similar 
rock-markines  occur  at  Ilkley  and  in  other 
places.    Authorities  will  oblige. 

T.  Cann  Hughes,  F.S.A. 
Lancaster. 

A  Company  of  MiNERS.—The  following  is 
taken  from  "  Notes  on  the  Early  History  of 
the  Royal  Regiment  of  Artillery,  by  the  late 
Col.  Cleaveland,  R.A.*'  Wanted  information 
regarding  the  formation  of  this  company  of 
miners  What  were  their  duties?  By  what 
authority  were  they  formed  ?— 

**  May  12,  1756.— A  company  of  miners,  consisting 
of  200,  was  raised  for  the  puri)ose  of  being  sent 
to  assist  in  retaking  Minorca.  First- Lieutenant 
William  Phillips,  then  the  youngest  of  that  rank 
in  the  regiment,  being  aide-de-camp  to  Sir  tJohu 
Ligonier,  was,  through  that  interest,  and  the  indo- 
lence and  supineness  of  the  officers  of  the  corps, 
appointed  captain  of  the  company,  which  was  then 
considered  as  no  more  than  a  temporary  affair  of 
short  duration,  that  would  end  when  the  service 
they  were  raised  for  was  performed :  but  on  the 
return  of  this  company  (1757)  to  Woolwich  the 
miners  who  did  not  choose  to  remain  as  privates  in 
the  regiment  were  discharged,  and  the  company 
added  to,  and  established  in,  the  regiment  on  the 
same  footing  as  the  others.  This  made  19  companies 
besides  the  cadets.'' 

J.  H.  Leslie,  Major,  late  R.A. 
Hathersage,  Derbyshire. 

[The  same  as  sappers  and  miners  ?] 

Tool  Maeks  on  Medieval  Dressed 
Stones.  —  Can  any  of  your  readers  refer 
me  to  books  or  papers  dealing  with  the 
marks  made  on  dressed  stones  in  mediaeval 
masonry  ?  I  mean  tool  marks,  not  Freemasons' 
or  other  signs,  devices,  or  marks.  The 
replies  to  my  query  on  *  Chisel  Marks'  (aw^«, 
pp.  149,  233,  296)  do  not  give  this  informa- 
tion. W.  H.  L. 

Intemperance,  War,  Pestilence,  and 
Famine. — A  saying  that  intemperance  has 
caused  as  much  misery  as  war,  pestilence,  and 
famine  is  often  attributed  to  Mr.  Gladstone  ; 
but  if  he  used  the  phrase  he  did  not  originate 
it,  for  John  Quincy  Adams,  once  President 
of  the  United  States,  is  reported  to  have  said 
at  a  public  meeting  in  1840  :— 

"  I  regard  the  temperance  movement  of  the 
present  day  as  one  of  the  most  remarkable 
phenomena  of  the  human  race,  operating  simul- 
taneously in  every  part  of  the  world  for  the 
reformation  of  a  vice  often  solitary  in  itself,  but  as 
infectious  in  its  nature  as  the  smallpox  or  the 
plague,  and  combinino  oUl  the  tils  of  war,  pestilence, 
ana /amine."— Bums  8  *  Temperance  History,'  vol.  i. 
p.  280. 

The  same  thought  occurs  in  Mr.  Charles 
Buxton's    'How   to  Stop  Drunkenueaa,*   %. 


remarkable  article  which  appeared  in  the 
North  British  Review  in  1854,  and  in  1864 
was  reprinted  by  the  late  Mr.  T.  B.  Smithies, 
and  has  had  an  extensive  circulation  in  book 
and  pamphlet  form.    He  says : — 

"  Nay,  add  together  all  the  miseries  generated  in 
our  times  by  war,  famine,  and  pestilence,  the  three 
great  scourges  of  mankind,  andT they  do  not  exceed 
those  that  spring  from  this  one  calamity." 

Can  the  thought  be  traced  further  back  ? 
William  E.  A.  Axon. 
Manchester. 

KiNOSMAN  Family.—"  My  nephew  William 
Long  Kingsman  "  is  mentioneid  in  the  will 
of  Maria  Scattergood,  of  Boddesden  and 
Lincoln  (proved  P.C.C.,  1763).  I  should  be 
glad  of  any  information  which  would  help 
to  identify  him.  "  I^ong  Kingsman,  Esq., 
signed  a  petition  in  favour  of  Parliamentary 
reform  in  1792  ('Annual  Register') ;  and  in 
the  Gentleman^ 8  Magazine  for  1800  is  an 
obituary  notice,  couched  in  eulogistic  lan- 
guage, of  "Miss  Kingsman,  daughter  of 
W.  L.  K.,  Esq."  Any  reference  to  printed 
or  MS.  pedigrees  of  this  family,  or  any  other 
genealogical  notes,  would  be  acceptable. 

Bernard  P.  Scattergood. 

Moorside,  Far  Headingley,  Leeds. 


ANIMALS  IN  PEOPLE'S  INSIDES. 
(9"»  S.  vii.  222,  332.) 

An  intelligent  Yorkshireman,  who  in  his 
younger  days  did  some  little  for  the  better- 
ment of  the  industrial  population  of  Leeds, 
and  who  now  holds  two  or  three  semi- 
public  positions  at  Northampton,  believes 
and  tells  the  following  story.  He  knew  the 
people ;  and  he  thinKs  every  one  ought  to 
accept  his  statement,  because  he  has  an  utter 
abhorrence  of  smoking.  A  young  man  in 
Wales  gradually  sickened.  Doctors  could  do 
nothing  for  him.  He  consulted  a  quack,  who 
advised  him  to  smoke  continually.  Being  a 
non-smoker,  he  went  to  his  regular  doctor  to 
ask  if  he  might.  The  doctor  said  it  would 
kill  him  in  his  present  state.  The  young  man 
died.  The  quack  obtained  permission  of  the 
family  to  open  the  body.  Before  commencing 
the  autopsy  he  induced  the  family  doctor  to 
witness  it.  The  doctor  could  see  nothing 
wrong  with  any  of  the  organs.  The  quack 
pointed  to  the  heart,  which  the  doctor  pro- 
nounced sound  and  healthy.  The  quack  cut 
it  open,  and  inside  was  a  worm,  ''as  loog 
I  and  big  as  my  finger.''  The  Quack.  who  was 
\^mo\L\Tk%^  \Akhi  «.  mouthfol  of  amoke  on  the 


'  a  vn.  May  18. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


891 


worm,  and  it  iniTD^iatdy  died,  "  There,"  he 
said  ;  **if  this  man  had  sunoHd  he  would  have 
killed  this  worm  ;  arooke  i^  the  only  thing 
that  would  reach  the  heart,"  K. 

There  in  the  well-known  medical  story  of 
the  old  lady  who  imagined  that  she  had  a 
trm  in  her  stomach.  Her  doctor,  after  vainly 
trying  to  persuade  her  that  it  waa  only 
imaKination^  considered  a  little  deception 
justifiable  to  prevent  this  idea  becoming 
fised  in  her  mind.  Having  administered  an 
emetic;,  he  managetl  adroitly  to  introdu<^  a 
frog  into  the  baain,  aa  if  it  had  just  arrived 
from  the  old  lady^s  stomach.  The  patient's 
joy  was  greAt,  as  there  was  proof  positive  that 
she  had  Ijeen  right  all  along  as  to  the  cause 
of  her  illness.  Her  joy  was  soon  overclouded, 
on  the  idea  struck  her  that,  although  there 
was  the  old  frog,  there  might  be  little  frogs 
left  l»ehtnd,  The  doctor,  however,  waj?  equal 
to  this  sadden  emergency,  for  on  a  rapid 
examination  of  the  frog  he  immediately 
assured  the  patient  that  her  fears  were 
groundless,  m  her  late  guest  was  a  ^tniltnmn 
frog.  J.  G,  WallacE'James. 

Haddfngton. 

I  might  mention  that  when  my  brother, 
the  late  James  Fowler,  was  in  practice  at 
Wakefield,  say  about  thirty  years  ago*  he 
observed  in  the  window  of  a  certain  herbalist 
or  quack  doctor,  along  with  bottled  tape- 
worma  and  other  bond  ^dc  enfcos^a,  a  fine 
apecimen  of  some  air-breathing  reptile,  I 
think  a  snake,  labelled^  as  were  the  other 

things,  "  Taken  from  Sir. ,  of ."  Mr.  F, 

went  in  and  asked  the  man  how  he  dared  to 
publish  such  a  lie.     **  Oh,^  said  the  herbalist, 

"it*a  all  right.    Mr. offered  it  to  me  as  a 

car'osjty.  and  so  I  took  it,  and  there  it  is," 
Thus  did  the  Yorkshi reman  "score.'* 
^  While  on  the  f^ubject  of  medical  prac- 
titioners and  their  patients,  I  may  mention 
that  once  when  the  above-named  J.  F.  ex- 
amined a  woman's  throat  with  a  laryngoscope 
she  said,  **  T  should  think  you  can  see  a  long 
way  down  with  that  thing,  sir.'*  "  Yes,"  said 
he,  "  I  can  see  that  you  are  sitting  on  a  cane- 
bottomed  chair."  "  Bless  me !"  exclaimed  the 
patient,  greatly  impressed.  J,  T.  F, 

Levinns  Leronius,  a  medical  man  at 
Zirickfiee  in  Holland,  publi^^hed  in  1674  *De 
Miraculis  Occult  is  Naturae,  Libri  iv,*  Fn  the 
second  book  of  this  curious  treatise  tlie  title 
of  chap*  xl.  is  "Alimenta  aliquando  vitiari 
ae  venenati  aliquid  con  t  rah  ere  ex  bestiolaruin 
inaieasu  circnbi  tuque.  Denique  human  is  cor- 
poribas  ex  diffnais  in  ilia  soidibus  simile 
quiddam  innaaci,  nempe  muregf  ioricm^  gliree, 


rana^,  rub«itas,  ejusque  rei  exemplum."    The 

dangers  of  eating  contaminated  food  are  mt 
forth  at  large  in  the  chapter,  but  a  transla- 
tion would  he  too  long  and  not  altogether 
edifying.  C.  DEEt>is. 

Brighton. 

Among  the  numerous  apothecaries  who 
sold  quack  medicines  during  the  reigns  of 
Queen  Anne  and  George  L,  not  the  least 
famous  was  John  Moore,  **  author  of  the 
celebrated  *  worm  powder/"  to  whom  Pope 
add lessed  some  s tan zas  begi n ni n g  :  — - 
How  muehn  egreKioua  Moora,  are  we 

Becflived  by  shows  and  forms  i 
Wbftte'er  we  think,  whste'er  wc  see, 
All  humankind  are  worms. 

In  an  old  advertisement  dated  4  November, 
1722»  his  encounter  with  a  **worm"  in  a 
person's  inside  is  thus  recorded  :— 

**Sir,  .,...Yoii  aak  me  T^avg  to  let  the  Cure  be 
printed ;  I  am  not  at  aJl  against  it,  being  for  the 
good  of  the  Pttblick.  The  Worm  wa^i  in  Leng:th 
15  Foot  6  Tnchcfl^  and  about  half  an  Inch  broad 
when  it  cam©  from  me*  there  came  aNo  some  Score* 
of  small  Worms  along  with  it,  abont  the  latter  End 
of  April,  1T21.  It  waa  a  ifreat  Show  to  all  the 
Town,  People  came  bv  5  or  6  together  to  »ee  the 
Worm*  I  kept  it  about  a  week  in  this  Town 
rManchefiterl,  that  it  might  be  seen ;  then  sent  it 
home  to  my  Fathsr  at  Con  pie  ton.  and  it  was  as  i:reat 
a  Sight  there.  A  Doctor  sent  for  it  to  West-Chester^ 

and  then  to  MaxSeUl  to  b©  shown   there One 

thinjr  I  had  aloioet  foricot  to  let  you  know^  how 
People  iiock  to  me  to  pet  the  Powders  for  their 
Children,  and  there  are  two  Personfl  in  this  Town 
in  the  same  Condition  f  was.....  N.B»  This  Worm 
IB  to  he  neen  at  the  said  John  Moore'a  Honse." 

J.  HoLDE!?  MacMiCHAEL- 

When  I  waa  a  boy  the  name  here  for  the 
water-newt  was  "ask***  F  daresay  it  is  still 
so  named.  R.  B — }l 

South  Shields. 

The  idea  of  animals,  or  rather  insects, 
living  in  the  in»ides  of  people, and  increasing 
in  size  by  preying  upon  them,  is  a  very  old 
and  widely  spread  one-  The  Rev.  Charles 
Men  vale,  In  his  *  History  of  the  Bora  an  a 
under  the  Empire^'  narrates  the  following  . 
curious  and  illustrative  anecdote  concern ing 
the  Erapernr  Titus,  who  died  a.d.  81  :— 

'Mehovah  suflfered  him  to  gain  the  shore,  and 
there,  in  scorn  of  the  scomer,  sent  a  gnat  to  creep 
into  his  nostrils  and  lod^e  itself  in  hia  brain*  Fop 
seven  years  the  refltlean  insect  gnawed  the  vital 
tianne.  One  dav,  when  the  tortured  prince  passed 
by  a  blackamlth^R  forfie.  the  thunders  of  the  hammer 
seemed  to  startle  and  arreat  it.  Four  pieces  of 
silver  did  the  sufferer  cjive  to  have  the  noise  con- 
tinued in  hU  ear  without  ceasing.  At  the  end  of 
thirty  miserable  dhfs  the  inflect  became  accuHtomed 
to  the  clanR  and  reaumod  hS»  ^v^^vu^.  VVCvo.'^ft^s^'O&ft 
ion  of  Etouba^  was  v^^^^^^  V\^\l™6  OtC\«\  tis^ia?!*  ^ 
Rom©  at  tbe  d«atK  al  t^b.^  ^m^wOT.   T^  ^tiw-afi^ 


393 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     (••s.vn.MATis.nn. 


wittifiaa  reported  that  the  head  of  the  deceased  waa 
openedi  and  the  creature  was  there  discovered  as 
big  BA  a  swallow,  with  a  brazen  beak  and  claws  of 
iroo.'**-"Chap.  Ir. 

John  Pick  ford,  M,A. 
Newbotirtifi  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 


**JuGGiNa"(9'*' S.  vii.  247).— I  have  drawn 
Dr,  Murray's  attention  to  the  miner  "Jug- 
gin  a  "  in  Dbraeli'a  *  Sybil/  IIL  i.  He  may 
not  hQ  the  purticular  object  of  philological 
quest,  but  a«i  a  victint  he  has  suificiently 
notable  quality  to  warrant  consideration.  He 
suffered  from  the  iniquity  of  the  torn  my -shop. 
Soveral  miners^  diacu.ssing  their  hardships  in 
an  alehouse,  are  addressed  thus  by  their 
leading  spok&sman  i — 

"*  Comrades,'  couLinued  Nlion,  *you  know  what 
has  happened ;  you  know  as  how  Juf^ins  applied 
for  his  baladce  after  his  torn  my- book  was  i^aid  up, 
and  that  incarnat«  nigger  DiKga  has  made  Iviin  take 
two  waiBtcoata.  Now  the  cj  neat  ion  riaesT,  what  is  a 
collier  t<»  do  with  waistcoats?  Pawa 'em  1  fl'iKia* 
to  BigKs'ft  son-in-law,  next  door  to  hiB  fat h«r*»  shop, 
and  aell  the  ticket  for  sixpence.  NoWj  there  's  ih© 
(|a&eftion  j  keep  to  the  quei»tion  j  the  question  is 
waistcoats  and  tonjray ;  first  waistcoats,  and  then 
tommy.' *' 

Like  many  other  aufferera,  this  "Juggins" 
may  have  helplessly  bowed  to  the  force  of 
c ire u instances  rather  than  to  the  pressure  of 
hh  guileless  nature,  but  he  was  wantonly 
iiDpoacnl  upon  in  the  conatratnt  under  which 
he  was  fain  to  accept  a  consignment  of  waiat- 
coats  instead  of  the  coin  of  the  realm  that 
was  his  due,  Thomas  Bayne. 

I  doubt  if  it  will  ever  be  known  for  certain 
who  first  introduced  "Juggins  '*  to  the  public. 
I  think  myself  it  was  Mr.  Punch;  that  merry 
gentleman  is  usually  up  early  in  the  morning 
when  any  novelty  in  Hlang  is  to  hand.  The 
word,  I  feel  pretty  sure,  first  "came  in  "  about 
1880  (not  earlier) ;  but  it  made  very  little 
headway,  as  regards  general  populanty,  for 
three  or  four  years.  Although  I  vvas  mixed 
up  with  a  terribly  slangy  set  during  the 
eighties,  ray  earliest  recollection  of  "Jug- 
gins" datea*  no  farther  back  than  1883,  when 
my  attention  was  drawn  to  the  word  by  big 
posters  announcing,  "Canterbury  Theatre 
of  Varieties.  First  appearance  of  the  Bros. 
Horn  in  comic  sketen  entitled  ^  Juggina 
Junior/  Nov.  5,  1883."  James  Greenwood, 
writing  as  "  One  of  the  Crowd , "  25  August,  1884 
(in  a  paper  called  *  A  Lucky  Shilling  \  in  the 
Daily  Telegraphy  seemed  to  consider  the  word 
sufficiently  new  to  require  explanation,  I 
used  to  regard  "Juggins"  as  an  evolution  of 

*  "Salvador from  the  Talmud:  'Domln.Biom.eii 
JttdSe,'ii.  498," 


"mug,"  but  after  looking  over  one  or  two 
glossaries.  I  incline  to  the  belief  that  ^'tnuff" 
and  *' jug  *'  were  Elizabethan  words,  originally 
applied  to  the  silly  tippler  of  the  village,  who 
was  often  "muggy  "  or  *Mug- bitten  "  (for  the 
latter  word  see  T^ares's  Glossary,' new  edition, 
1888,  where  a  quotation  upon  the  subject  from 
*  Taylor's  Werkes,*  1630,  will  be  found).  From 
a  passage  in  one  of  Lord  Beacons  tie  Id's  novels 
it  would  seera  that  '*  Juggins  '*  was  used  in 
Lancashire  over  sixty  years  ago  as  a  nick- 
name for  a  simpleton— one  easily  imposed 
upon.  The  extract  which  follows  refers  t^ 
a  meeting  of  colliers  to  protest  against 
"tommy";  one  of  them,  named  "Juggins," 
deprecates  strong  measures  :— 
"The  cjup€5  of  a,h   circulated,    the   pipes   were 

hghted,  the  prelitiiinary  puffs  relieved *The  fact 

is  WB  are  tommied  to  <icath.'    *  You  iiev«r  spoke  a 
truer  word.  Master  Nixon/  said  one  of  hia  cotn- 
panions. .....' Comrades/  continued  NiJton,  *  you  k  now 

what  has  happened ;  yen  know  as  how  Jugjfins 
applied  for  his  balance  after  bia  tommy -book  wu 
paid  up,  and  that  incarnftte  nigger  Diggs  has  made 
him  take  two  waiat^^oata.  Now  the  question  n»©«, 
what  ia  a  coUrer  to  do  with  waistcoats  !  Pawn  'em 
I  a'pofi©  to  Diggs'a  son-in-law,   nes:t  door  lo   his 

father's  shop,  and  sell  the  ticket  for  sixpence the 

question  is  waistcoats  and  lotnmy  ;  first  waistcoata, 

and  then  tommy Juggins  haa  got  hia  rent  to  pAj, 

and  is  afraid  of  the  buma/  said  ISixon,  '  and  he  has 
got  two  waiatcoatH.*  "—*  Sybil  ^  or,  the  Two  Nations* 
(1845)}  vol.  ii.  hook  iii.  chap.  i.  pp.  6-7. 

"Juggins"  as  a  real  surname  is  uncommon, 
but  not  unknown.  Two  of  the  name  appear 
in  the  *  London  8u  bur  ban  DirecU>ry  * 
(Kelly's),  while  at  least  two  may  be  found  in 
the  *  Birmingham  Directory';  but  I  do  not 
believe  that  the  popular  word  Lakes  its  origin 
from  a  person  of  that  name. 

Herbert  B.  Clattos. 
^t  Renfrew  Road,  Lower  Kenninglon  Lane. 

*  Attur.  Agad/  (9^  S,  vu.  68.  198).— If  this 
work  dat^  back  to  1547,  and  if  there  is  a 
reference,  eo  nomine^  to  "  Interlopers  in  trade," 
Dr.  Murray  will  be  delighted  to  ha^e  so 
early  an  instance  of  that  difficult  wottj,  and 
I  hope  Mr*  Uadcliffe  will  comraunicAte  it 
to  him.  The  earliest  edition  that  I  have  seen 
is  of  1623,  and  "Interlopers  in  trade"  are 
mentioned  on  p.  &4a.  Bo  I  fear  that  most 
be  the  book  ana  edition  cited  by  Mioaheu- 

Thackeray  (D**"  S.  vii,  168,  S50).^Mra.  Eich- 
mond  Ritchie  sends  me  the  following  : — 

**  I  oddly  enough  don't  know  anything  for  c«rt4in 
about  this  particular  incident.  Liird  St*?^rae  wit 
certainly  not  Liord  lAnsdowDe,  for  wh«mi  my  imXM&r 
had  a  respect  and  admiration.   I  suppoae  my  fatker 

I  like  I      '**   ' 


may  have  been  told  the  picture 


lord,  and  thought  it  beet  to  tapDrees  it : 
\^<bV^^Ai^*^TA%i^.VuM(4b&m  to  ao  ao.    I 


LodlHflri* 
orperiMiii 


9»&vilmat18,i»i.)       notes  and  QUERIES. 


393 


h«ftdog  mf  elders  talking  about  it,  but  i  cAti't 
r^oieiiiber  what  they  said.  The  only  thing  I  know 
for  *3ertaip  m  that  it  couldn't  have  had  anything 
to  do  wiih  Lord  Lanadowne," 

Hbnrietta  Cole. 
m,  Philbeach  Gardens,  S/W. 

CkJLLET  (9*^  S.  vil   269).  —  Particulars  of 
Humphrey   Ckillet  were  siought  for  through 
*  N,  A  QV  for  which  see  T^  S.  xii.  249,  483. 
EvaRAET>  Home  Colemaj*. 

71,  Brrokdock  Road. 

CoRONATiojf  Stoke  (9*^  >S,  viL  309),  — A 
valaabk  acoount  of  the  legends  connected 
with  the  Coronation  Stone  was  communicat-eil 
to  the  Society  of  Antiquaries  of  Scotknci  in 
1869  by  Mr.  W.  F.  Skene.  This  paper  was 
pabli^^he^l^  with  notea  and  illustrations,  hy 
iles^ra*  Edraonstone  ^  Douglas,  of  Edinburgh^ 
in  the  same  ye^r.  Harky  Townehd. 

May-water  (9*'»  S.  vii.  149,  276).— See  the 
pretty  song  beginning  "Here 'a  a  aongfor  the 
oa^,  the  bmve  old  oat "  :  — 
Id  the  day^  of  old,  iKbeo  the  spring  with  goJd 

Wafi  li^^htioK  hia  branches  gray, 
Through  the  graas  at  hU  Feet  crept  maideni  »weet 

To  gather  the  dew  of  May. 

In  the  fifteenth  chapter  of  '  Woodstock ' 
Roger  Wild  rake  says  that  he  ngually  "  sleeps 
as  lightly  as  a  maiden  on  the  1st  of  May 
when  she  watches  for  the  earliest  beam  to  go 
to  gather  dew."  Jonathan  Bouchier. 

In  the  fifties  it  was  a  very  general  custom 
in  Devonshire  on  the  l^st  of  Slay  for  young 
ladies  to  go  into  lawns  or  fields  at  daybreak 
and  wa.sh  their  faces  in  the  dew.  The  dew 
was  supposed  to  give  a  good  complexion  to 
those  who  did  not  possess  one,  and  to  improva 
those  who  were  so  fortunate  as  to  own  one. 
I  do  not  think  the  boys  were  absolute 
strangers  to  the  practice.  A*  J.  Davy. 

Torquay. 

"Caerick'*  (9*^  B.  vii.  ms,  292),— It  is  not 
the  case  that  this  word  is  obsolete  in  Scotland. 
It  is  used  to-day  by  the  boys  in  Fifeshire  in 
the  sense  in  which  their  ancestors  employed 
it  in  the  days  of  Dr.  Jaraieson,  A  variation, 
however,  has  to  be  noticed.  Jamieson  says 
that  in  Fifo  **  carrick  "  is  the  name  given  to 
the  game.  That  is  the  case  still,  but,  with 
the  usual  elasticity  observable  in  the  applica- 
tion of  terms,  the  club,  or  **  shinty,"  is  now 
beginning  to  be  called  "*  car  rick  "  also,  lamie- 
son  nowhere  assigns  the  name  to  the  club  or 
driving  iinplement,  nor  does  he  restrict  the 
word  to  Fifeshire.  He  says  that  in  Perth 
and  Kinross  it  denotes  ^*the  wooden  ball 
dnren  by  clnbsi  or  sticks  hooked  at  the  lower 


end,  in  the  game  of  ihintiej'  In  Fife  the  ball 
is  called  the  *^  knout,''  a  fact  duly  noted  in  iU 
proper  place  by  Jamieson,  Aa  regards  the 
etymology  of  ** carrick ''— or  "the  carrick," 
as  it  is  usually  designated  in  Fifeshire— there 
is  nothing  in  the  Scottish  dictionary  to  sug- 
gest connexion  with  the  shepherd's  crook. 
Shepherds,  one  would  imagine,  are  too  **  few 
and  far  between"  in  any  given  district  to  be 
available  in  aufBcient  numbers  for  a  game  at 
shinty.  Then,  if  they  did  play,  and  used 
their  crooks  according  to  the  Fife  rules  and 
conditions  of  a  shinty  game*  one  and  another 
of  the  competitors  would  probably,  in  short 
space,  \m  found  sighing,  with  Sir  Gilbert 
Elliot,  **  IVf  y  sheep  I  neglected^  I  lost  my 
sheep  hook."  Finally,  so  far  as  Fife  is  con- 
cerned, "the  car  rick  "has  been  a  recognised 
game,  from  time  immemorial,  in  districts 
where  "  crooks "  are  associated  with  the 
chimney,  and  not  with  -^  the  shepherd's  mourn- 
ful fate  J'  Thomas  Bayne 

Verbs  formed  out  of  Proper  Names 
(9">  S.  vii.  182,  263).  -  Mr.  MacMichael 
appears  to  have  done  the  late  Mr.  Banting 
some  injustice  an  to  his  system  for  the  reduc- 
tion of  obeiiity,  which  is  by  no  means  correctly 
stated.  I  have  not  just  now  the  means  of 
consulting  Chamber sh  Jout^nal  for  1864,  to 
which  your  correspondent  rcfersj  but  I  have 
before  me  a  better  authority  in  the  third 
edition  of  Mr*  Banting's  own  pamphlet  {1863). 
His  system  was  this.  He  cut  off  bread, 
butter,  milk,  sugar,  beer,  potatoes,  puddings, 
and  pies  ;  out  as  a  substitute  for  the  first 
he  used  well -browned  toast  or  biscuit. 
He  allowed  all  vegetables  except  potatoes. 
I  myself  tried  the  system  for  some  time, 
and  with  complete  success.  I  did  not 
require  it  for  too  much  fat,  for  I  was 
always  thin,  but  it  completely  removed 
some  symptoms  of  indigestion  which  caused 
ine  inconvenience ;  and  to  show  how  well  it 
agreed  with  me,  I  may  mention  that  I  did  not 
lose  an  ounce  of  my  usual  weight  of  nine 
stone.  I  think  Ut.  Eanting*s  system  has 
somehow  been  confounded  with  the  Salisbury 
(American)  treatment^  which  consists  of  meat, 
minced  over  and  over  again  till  it  becomes  a 
sort  of  pulp,  and  a  grejit  deal  of  hot  water. 
Nothing  else.  I  should  not  like  this  at  alK 
George  H.  Courtenay* 

It  is  so  essential  that  the  information  con- 
vey^ in  ^  Nt  i&  Q/  should  be  strictly  accurate, 
that  I  venture  to  point  out  two  slips  in  the 
note  on  p.  263. 

1.  To  guillotine  (surely  guilloHn  has  never 
been  used  as  &  vetbU*  ftj^tAM^^Tv^a'^  ^^jf(4a&vi*^T>«A 
meana  tiot  to  puffier,  \i^\,  U>  "wvS^taV  >^^  ^k^xCx^- 


394 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*s.vilmat18.woi. 


luent  of  decapitation  by  that  instrument  r  to 
suffer  it  iR  **  to  bo  guillotined." 

2.  rt  wm  not  fche  first,  but  the  fourth  Earl 
of  Sandwich  who  invented  those  corapendioua 
compounds  of  bread  and  meat  ever  since 
called  after  hira,  in  order^  it  is  «aid,  that  he 
might  be  able  to  continue  gamblinK  without 
lea  V  i  n  g  off  for  meal  s.  Tb  e  fi  rs  t  earl  { Ed  w  a  rd 
MontaguX  after  fighting  on  the  Parliament 
side  in  the  Civil  War,  took  an  active  part  in 
the  Hestoration,  and  was  miule  Karl  of  4Sand- 
wieh  by  Charlea  II.  The  fourth  (John  Mon- 
tagu) was  twice  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty, 
his  second  term  (unfortunately  for  the  coun- 
try) lasting  eleven  years,  from  1771  to  1782. 

W,  T,  Lynk. 

Blaek heath. 

To  hallhomize, — 

**  We  itumbled  aome where  l&fcely  <m  the  phraae 
'der  verballhoriite  Pat&st  Pitti'  applied  to  the 
royal  edifices  lately  erected  at  Mimich.  We  ascribed 
it  to  our  ineapaohV  tn  grapple  with  (Jernian  idiom, 
that  we  were  altogether  unable  to  guess  what  a  Ball- 
homed  Pi  tti  Palace  meant.  However,  by  a  fortunate 
chance,^  that  pae^  of  the  '  Converaatioua-Lexicon  * 
which  immortalizea  the  oatne  of  Ballhorn  o|»efiec] 
before  ua  to  flolve  the  difficulty.  The  reader, 
therefore,  shall  know  (if  he  knew  no  more  about 
it  than  we  did)  that  John  Ballhoru  was  a  printer 
at  Lubeek,  who  flourished  between  the  years  1531 
and  1599,  and  who  printed,  amonptftt  other  thioga,  a 
primer  or  A  B  C  book,  on  the  last  ]>asTe  of  which  he 
substituted  for  the  emb^^Uiabment  which  wan  usual 
at  that  time,  of  a  cock  with  spurs,  a  cock  withot]t  i 
spura,  but  with  a  couple  of  e^pia  l)eside  bim  ;  and  on 
t!i0  strength  of  thfa  anbatitution  annoy  need  on  the 
title-page  'Amended  by  John  Balihorn.*  Tiie  ex- 
prenaion  haa  «ince  become  proverbial ;  and  Ball- 
homi^ir^n  or  Ver-Baltko^meii  siRnifiea  *to  make 
unmeaning  or  naelesa  alterations  in  anything— to 
make  anything  worse^  instead  of  making  it  better/" 
--'  Review  of  Dcsifms  for  r^hniiding  the  Eoyal 
Exchange/  1S40»  by  Joseph  Gwilt,  F,l5.A.  (7) 

To  ffni/iamtzs.— On  14  June,  1840,  Mr.  T. 
Duncomba,  M.P.,  presented  s.  petition  to  the 
House  of  Comnions  from  W.  J.  Linton, 
Giuseppe  Mazzini,  and  others,  complaining 
that  their  letters  had  been  opened  when 
passing  through  the  Post  Office.  Sir  Jamea 
Graham,  the  then  Home  tSeeretary,  acknow- 
ledged that  he  had  given  instructions  for 
this  being  done»  and  incurred  ^reat  obloquy 
in  consequence ;  but  itappearefl  subsequently 
that  it  had  been  done  by  t!ie  Foreign  Secre- 
tary, Byron ^fl  **  travelled  thane,  Athenian 
Al^erdeen/'  at  the  instance  of  the  ^?'eapoHt^n 
Goveniment  and  with  the  concurrence  of  the 
Cabinet  Thia  proceeding  excited  great 
indignation  in  tbiB  country*  and  Punch  iaaiied 
a  sheet  of  an ti -Grab am  waferg,  with  appro- 
priate devices  and  mottoes,  with  a  view  to 
prevent  the  continuance  of  tbe  ptBjetke,  one 


of  the  b^t  hftviDg  as  a  devic©  it  oee  'vitn  t\vs\^.\i^  S|»cc^tonr\ 


mottcj  *'  Touch  my  wax,  you  '11  feel  my  sting." 
"  Not  to  be  graharaized  ^  was  another  of  these 
mottoes  ;  and  for  some  time  after  1S4CI  "to 
grahamize  '*  was  used  to  express  the  clandes- 
tine opening  of  letters. 

Graham  took  the  public  censure  very  much 
to  heart,  and  declared  in  after  life  that  when 
all  he  had  done  for  his  country  was  forgotten 
his  conduct  in  connexion  with  this  miserabio 
affair  would  be  remenaberod  ;  which  is  the 
fact.  JoHK  Hebe, 

To  endiicott—Thh  has  certainly  never  been 
in  general  uae.  The  case-,  which  was  a  cauM 
cmhre  amongfit  students  of  London  polioe- 
court  rejjorts,  was  associated  always  more 
closely  with  the  name  6f  the  woman  taken 
than  with  that  of  the  policeman.         R  S, 

The  verb  to  7uigentizf  has  not  been  men- 
tioned in  this  connexion.  It  was  invented 
by  Horace  Walpole  on  the  occasion  of  Rohert 
Nugent,  an  Irisli  adventurer,  having  married 
a  wealthy  widow ^  and  its  meaning  la  indicated 
by  that  fact.  See  Tovey's  *  Letters  of  Thomas 
Gray/  i,  172,  note.  O.  a  R 

"Shoehorned"  (fl**"  S-  vM  289),— The  Bptt- 
tator  applied  the  term  **  shoehorn  "  as  a  con- 
temptuous   name   for    danglers    on   young 
women,  encouraged  merely  to  dmw  on  other 
admirers.     See   SfMcMtm^   No.    536*     Yonr 
corre^tpondent  is  perhaps  aware  of  the  oM 
slang  sense  in  w*hich  it  was  commonly  used, 
a  '*  ahoeing-horn  ^'  being  an  article  of  food, 
such  as  salt  0sh^  which  acts  as  an  indueeoieat 
to  drink  :■ — 

A  »1)p  of  bacon...... 

Bball  serve  as  &  ihoeiDg-horD  to  dnvw  on  two  po^ 
of  ale. 

Bp.  Stm,  '  Gammer  Gurton's  Ne*db/  L  i 

**Haue  aoiTiG  shooing  home  to  pwt  on  your  mnt, 
&»  a  rftsher  of  the  cole*,  or  a  redde-horring/— Kiabi* 
*  Pierce  Penniletse/  p,  51,  quoted  in  Kares'i  *Did.' 

J.  H.  MacMicbabl 

This  is  a  word  which,  used  as  a  verb,  I 
have  known  for  fifty  years ;  and  "shoe-ironed* 
was  in  use  as  well.  "  Low -side  "  shoes  werf 
common  wear,  and  it  was  almost  impossible 
to  get  the  heel  of  the  foot  in  without  usio| 
a  shoehorn,  shoe-iron^  or  shoe-lift»  as  ibe 
article  was  variously  called.  Theew  we?t 
made  in  several  kinds  of  material— brasit,  irm 
bone,  horn,  wood,  and  so  forth — ^and  one  rff 
more  waa  hung  in  every  chimney  comer  iritb 
other  articles  which  have  now  gone  oot  of 
use.  Tbos.  nATCUFTt 

Workiop. 

Is  not  this  idea  of   the  shoehorti  taben 
from  a  paper  by  one  of  the  old  essayist  u) 


W.G& 


II.  May  18. 1901]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


395 


rpEDES  :  Local  Name  (9">  S.  vii. 
'  early  days  in  Devon  I  never  heard 
other    name   for    this  animal  than 
egs,"  i.e.  amongst  boys  and  labourers. 
A.  J.  Davy. 
y. 

'erby shire  the  common  term  was 
legs  "  ;  but  a  few  of  the  older  people, 
m  certainly  had  a  better  knowledge 
ts  generally  than  now,  called  them 
bur  legs,"  and  some  said  "  fifty-legs  "  in 
lere  the  insect  was  a  very  large  one. 
Iways  seemed  afraid  of  them,  and  it 
rule  invariably  to  stamp  them  out  of 
je  with  the  foot.  The  "forty-legs" 
b  times  upon  "  old  sows,"  and  it  is  an 
ing  sight  when  the  '*  forty-legs  "  seizes 
fi  ^*old  sow"  with  the  intention  of 
a  meal.  Thos.  Ratcuffe. 

op. 

terra  sed  aquis"  (9^^  S.  vii.  247).— 
ve  is  the  motto  used  by  the  family  of 

of  Dunnethead,  co.  Caithness.  It 
o  the  arms.  A  sea  proper,  in  the 
3left  or,  on  a  chief  argent  a  swarfs 
d  cuddin  or  snaith  in  saltire  of  the 
/Vest,  a  rock,  thereon  a  fox  proper. 
John  Radcliffe. 

LiAST  Male  Descendant  of  Daniel 
5'^  S.  vii.  86, 177, 297).-Since  penning 
y  at  the  last  reference  I  have  lighted 
lissing  article  in  the  Sketch  of  27  Sep- 

1893.  It  is  entitled  *The  Last  of 
oes,'  and  is  illustrated  by  portraits 
)riginal  Daniel,  the  lately  deceased 
ViHiam,  and  his  son  Daniel,  who  is 
as  a  Blue  Coat  boy,  his  portrait 
produced  by  the  Meisenbach  process 
photograph  taken  by  Bradshaw,  of 
B  Street.  His  relationship  to  the 
>f  *  Robinson  Crusoe '  will  justify  me, 
•e  to  believe,  in  transferring  to  these 

the  additional  details  concerning 
ich  the  Sketch  article  supplies.  I 
le  following  from  a  letter  sent  by  his 
3  the  Bath/  Neivs  in  September,  1893, 
5i  reproduced  in  ejrtenso  in  the  Sketch. 
ITilliam  Defoe  writes  : — 
luite  true,  through  the  kindness  of  Alder- 
Vm.  Ellis,  my  little  boy  Daniel  was  placed 
's  Church  Blue  Coat  School,  after  he  had 
usual  time  Scholars  remain  there,  after 
choose  the  Sea  as  his  livihood  and  was 
led  in  the  Prior  Hill  Barque  for  4  years, 
)w  8  months  to  serve  before  he  is  out  of 
during  service  he  has  been  to  many  ports, 
Francisco,  Valperaiso,  Melbourne,  Sydney, 
ae  and  many  other  places,  he  is  now  on  his 
►  New  York  &  Melboum  &  Sydney." 

preserved  the  erratic  orthography. 


Thus  far  the  father.    The  article  concludes 
as  follows  :^ 

"  DanieJ,  now  (t89S)  a  boy  of  nineteen,  was  ad- 
mitted to  the  Blue  Coat  Boya'  School  in  September, 
1884.  He  left  it  in  May,  18S9,  and,  with  an  appro* 
prlat^neKs  which  is  worthy  of  atteiitioTi,  set  out 
OQ  life  after  the  manner  in  which  Cruioe  became 
known  to  posterity,  namely,  on  the  sea." 

Little   did  the  writer  apprehend  how  Boon 
that  career  would  be  ended* 

CHAitLEs  Knra, 

Tonjiiay, 

The  late  Mr.  De  Foe  was  married  three 
tiro  Pit*  He  had  only  one  son,  but  several 
claiighters,  some  of  whom  married  and  had 
qhildren  of  their  own.  How  many  grand- 
children he  may  have  had,  or  how  many  (if 
any)  are  now  living,  I  cannot  aay,  a*  I  have 
lost  sight  of  the  tamily  for  over  ten  years. 
One,  whom  I  knew  in  1888  m  a  litti©  boy, 
would,  if  now  alive,  be  close  on  eighteen  or 
twentJ^  I  never  met  Mr*  De  Foe,  but  I  was 
acquainted  with  his  third  wife —a  little  old 
lacfy  with  white  hair— also  witji  Iver  son,  the 
Blue  Coat  boy  ;  but  my  special  friend  wae 
Eroma  De  Foe^  a  daughter  by  the  first  wife  (a 
Miss  Towell,  of  Hungerford  Market).  We 
have  not  met  (at  lea^t,  not  to  speak)  for 
jrear?,  but  I  believe^ assuredly  I  nope— she 
IS  alive  and  well.  During  the  short  period 
of  our  acquaintance  she  proved,  by  kindly 
sympathy  and  advice  at  a  time  when  both 
were  sorely  needed,  how  true  it  is  "a  friend 
in  need  is  a  friend  indeed-" 

Herbert  B,  Clayton. 

30,  Renfrew  Boad^  Lower  KeimioKtOD  Lane, 

I  am  deaifous  of  knowing  why  the  *'n]"  is 
put  after  the  word  **Acid^^  in  Me,  Kinq'b 
reference  to  Mr-  Thomaa  Wright's  poem  *  The 
Acid  Sisters/  The  book  lies  before  me  now, 
as  it  doubtless  did  before  Mb,  Kiku  when  he 
wrote  hifl  interesting  note,  and  I  fail  to  see 
why  Mr,  VVright*«  judgment  in  the  selection 
of  tho  title  of  this  absorbing  poem  should  in 
any  way  be  di,Hcountefi  JoBH  T.  Page. 

Weat  Had  don,  North*  mptoti* 

[The  name  ieem&d  8tfa»Kep  and  we  suspected  a 
misreading*! 

I  have  not  seen  Mr,  Wright's  *Life  of 
Defoe ' ;  the  work  of  Mr.  W»  Lee— dated,  I 
see,  about  1869— is  the  last  work  of  authority 
I  studied.  Yet  the  ever-green  *  N,  4r  Q,'  pro- 
duces fresh  btossom  every  week  !  What  I  did 
^end  was  desired  to  open  the  subject  and 
elicit  full  detaik.  A.  H. 

Sia  John  Borlase  Warben,  Bart.  (9***  S. 
vl  490 ;  Tdi.  15j  92, 19^).— I  regret  to  find  t1\aA» 
I  gave  the  d^\4  oi^\a  ftAiEMflssssn  ^\."^flS£!eiKSK!^ 


396 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p^avn-MATiMsm. 


Coll..  Camb.,  as  l73?.itiitead  of  1768,  m  given 
in  the  *D,N.B.'  There  were  two  Warrens 
comoaoners  at  Wioch eater,  whose  names  were 
on  the  Long  Roll  for  12  September,  1768. 
One  of  these— presumably  the  elder,  John 
Borlaae— had  lett  the  achool  before  the  next 
Roll  was  issued,  11  September,  1769,  so  that 
his  entry  at  Cambridge  on  23  September, 
1769,  is  quite  possible.  The  other  Warren 
was,  I  learn  from  G.  K  C,  almost  certainly 
the  admirar^  younger  and  only  brother 
Arnold,  baptized  S7  January,  1757,  at  ^staple- 
ford,  Notts,  died  unmarried  27  August,  1829. 
He  remained  at  Winchester  Coirege  until 
after  7  Beptember,  1772.  C,  W,  H. 

Hakb-kuung  in  Old  Title-pages  (9^''  S. 
vii.  IBS,  331),— This  kind  of  ornamentation  in 
by  no  means  uncommon  in  the  better  cla.^s  of 
Bibles  and  Prayer-books  of  the  seventeenth 
and  eighteenth  centuries.  In  Durham  Castle 
chapel  are  two  copiea  of  the  1669  folio 
Prayer-book,  with  the  engraved  title  in  one 
of  them,  ruled  throughout  with  red  lines  on 
the  title  and  on  all  the  pages  ;  and  I  have  a 
12mo  Prayer-book  of  1722  ruled  in  the  same 
way,  J,  T.  F. 

Suffolk  Name  for  Ladybird  (9^  S.  v, 
48,  154,  274  ;  vi.  265,  417  ;  vii.  95)  —Can  there 
be  much  doubt  that  the  popular  reverence 
for  this  insect)  possessing  so  much  attraction 
from  the  folk-rimes  associated  with  it,  is 
traceable  to  its  being  in  the  first  place  iden- 
tified, on  account  of  its  sanguine  colour  (like 
the  robin  redbreast  or  the  berries  of  the 
rowan  -  tree),  with  the  solar  fire  and  sun- 
worship,  and  thence  by  Chnstianity  witli 
St.  Barnabas's  Day,  11  June,  the  day  of  the 
summer  solstice?  So,  to  this  day,  its  quali- 
fications as  an  augury  of  happiness  to  the 
pensire  love- maiden  are  acknowledged  as  she 
repeats  the  words 

Fly  awAy  eaat,  dy  away  weat, 

And  show  mi^  where  Lives  tbe  ana  1  love  bett» 

The  name  **  Barnabee,"  however,  appears  to 
have  no  allusion  to  "  burning,"  for  the  bishop's 
name  is  thus  spelt  in  the  old  proverb  relating 
to  the  day  of  his  festival,  viz.,  "Barnabee 
bright ;  tue  longest  day,  and  the  shortest 
nignt."    In  the  better-known  rime, 

Ladybird,  ladybird,  fly  away  home  ; 

Your  hoase  ie  on  fire,  your  ohildroo  will  bum, 

the  ladybird^s  home  is  the  sun  j  and  in  Ger* 
many  children  must  not  kill  it,  or  the  sun 
would  not  shine  the  next  day.  A  childish 
name  for  the  insect  in  Northamptonshire  is 
'V/<?ek-a-day'*(A.E.  Baker's' Glossary  %  Other 


tiAmea  not  mentioned  by  your  cotTO6pon^^iitA\ 
are   '*Qod  Almighty's    cow,"  ^*ft^^go\^ii^'*\ 


'* God's  horse"  (in  LancashireV  corresjponding 
perhaps  to  the  French  ''b^te-a-DieiL  and  in 
Scotland  "Lady  Flanners'' {Lady  of  Flanders), 

Wimbledon  Park  Road. 

In  December,  1876,  some*  Stray  Notes  on 
Folk-lore '  appeared  in  the  Churchfnan*i  Sk^ 
linq  Magazine,  from  the  pen  of  O,  S,  T.  Bnk^ 
and  in 'article  iv.,  p.  425  of  voL  m^  tlw 
following  occurs : — 

''Children  ia  Susaex  use  the  bdyhird  dunii: 
they  call    tbem    lady-bugit,  fly-golding^   or  God 
Almighty's  cowi»*  and  Bishop  Bamaby*.    Set  tJbi 
ladybird  on  your  finger  and  aay  ;— 
Bishop,  BUhop  Baroabee^, 
Tell  me  when  my  wedding  he. 
If  it  be  to-morrow  day, 
0(ie  your  winga  aod  fly  away,* 

which  ia  a  variant  of  the  lines  given  at  tin 
fourth  reference.  Chab,  fi.  Cbooch, 

WaoBlead 

"  Ladt  of  the  mere  "  (9^  S.  vil  299).— Teor 
reviewer  asks,  *vHave  we  or  have  we  uflt 
known  '  lady  of  the  mere  *  as  a  substitute  for 
*  lady  of  the  lake  *  ? "  He  ii  thinking,  doubV 
less,  of  Wonisworth's 

Lady  of  the  Mere^ 
Sole  fitting  by  the  Bhores  of  old  romascs. 

*  PooraM  on  the  Nftminf  of  Plaoei,'  if. 

c.  a  R 

Vulgar  Misuse  op  **  Rioht  "  (9»*>  a  m  4% 
271). — ^The  misuse  in  the  sense  referred  to  Iff 
R.  B-R  and  F.  H.  is  not  so  limited  and  locil 
as  they  imagine.  Speaking  from  Ktud«rt 
memonesjl  beiieve  exhaustive  analyses  ofife 
different  mean  in  ga  and  shades  of  meaoi^ 
are  to  found  in  works  on  jarispnidence  «m 
as  Holland^  Austin,  and  the  like. 

LlONSL  CmESSWBX. 
Wood  Hall,  Cftlverby,  Yorkt 

''  Mab  A8  a  hatter"  (2^  S.  vi.448  :  viilSl> 
—On  a  previous  occasion  I  pointed  out  tbit 
the  hatter's  madness  was  dipsotBani&,iiidi@ri 
by  working  with  hot  irons  m  a  heatod  ttnio- 
sphere  and  in  a  standing  position.  The  taikf 
works  under  similar  conditions,  bat  sefiteo; 
his  condition  is  therefore  le%s  aggrav*te4 
and  he  accordingly  gets  credited  only  ™ 
pusillanimity  and  lubricity. 

Thomas  J.  Jeau 

"Sarson  Stones  "  (9"*  S.  vii.  140,  i34,  IT* 
[  am  possibly  a  miserable  creature,  bat  e^^ 
a  worm  will  tarn,  and  I  should  li^e  ^ 
suggest  that  I  may  not  deserve  quite  *D  »J 
scorn  which  De.  J.  A.  H.  Murray  inteodtw 
my  reproof  and  correction.    I  have  foriiiif 


*  l^%^^i^^*«fMflt4t  IHm, 


a.  Mat  18. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


39T 


ssesaed  an  Anelo-Saxon  dictionary, 
i  not  forward  tne  little  excerpt  from 
laj'a  *  Stonehenge '  without  first  con- 
t.  I  was  not  aware  that  I  wrote  a 
approval  of  Prof.  Jones's  suggested 
fy,  or  attempted  to  support  the  gue^ 
kIj  else,  and  I  have  yet  to  believe 
conduct  in  furni»^hing  a  quotation 
a  matter  under  diioussion  was  in 
reprehenaihle.  1  could  not  cite  the 
>f  the  *H,E.D,'  concerning  Sarnon, 
s  it  is  not  yet  in  sight":  I  could  not» 
:e  reason,  gain  strength  from  Prof. 
Etymological  Dictionan%'  and,  if  the 
mr  in  hia  edition  of  dhaucer  or  of 
J,  in  'William  of  Palerne/  or  any 
blication  which  everybody  ought  to 
nd  con,  I  am  aorry  to  have  overlooked 
jik  the  more  learned  contributora  to 
'  need  to  be  reminded  that,  if  no  one 
lorant  and  nobody  blundered,  our 
porth  of  wit  and  folly  and  wisdom 
■se  its  rauon  ditrt.  Hitherto  it  has 
I  as  much  on  the  ignorance  of  the 
on  the  erudition  of  the  few,  and  I 
^hink  that  there  are  many  of  its 
readem  who  would  wish  its  con- 
parts  to  be  greatly  changed* 

St.  SwTTHiif. 

jCEs  Eyre,  1734-99  (9^  S.  viL  289).— 
ak  for  the  explanation  of  a  further 
th  regard  to  the  career  of  the  Chief 
The  Warden's  register  at  Winchester 
hows  that  he  was  admitted  a  scholar 
174S  ;  and  he  left,  superannuated,  in 
I  name  appearing  as  third  in  the 
I  the  Long  Roll  or  I  September,  1752. 
iter  of  admis.^ions  to  Lincoln**  Inn 
his  entry  there  on  ^6  November, 
cribing  him  as  ^'  late  of  Winchester 

Now  comes  the  point  whicli  needs 
ion  ;  the  register  of  St.  John's  Collegei, 
ecords  hts  matriculation  there  in  1 749 
years  before  he  left  school).  Foster, 
ves  the  date  a.*!  27  Uutober,  1749,  and 
n  fifteen.     His  brother  Thomas  was 

at  St  John*s  in  1748  ag  founders 
the  Chief  Justice^s  portrait  hangs  in 
i;e  hall,  but  it  does  not  appear  that 
esided.  Is  not  the  circumstance  of 
iculation  very  peculiar  1  It  should 
ed  that  in  Kirby's  ^  Winchest-er 
'  p.  248,  the  recor^:!  of  another  James 
o  went  to  Merton  College,  Oxford^ 
M>usly  given  to  Jamci^  Eyre  who 
he  Chief  Justice.  C.  W.  H, 

B  Game  (9f*  S.  vii.  329).'"In  Suffolk, 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  Ipswich, 
frequently  amused  themflelv^ 


%\ 


making  daisy  chains  and  dandelion  chains. 
Daisy  chains,  made  of  the  tin  v  flowerets,  seem 
to  lie  known  all  over  England,  but  dandelion 
chains,  which  are  altogether  different^  are 
apparently  unknown  around  Northampton. 
Moreover,  I  could  find  no  trace  of  thera  in 
North  Essex.  Dandelion  chains  are  made 
with  the  flower  stalks  only-  The  supple 
hollow  stalk,  denuded  of  its  flower,  is  bent  in 
a  circle,  and  the  smaller  end  is  pushed  for 
about  half  an  inch  Into  the  lari^er,  A  circle 
is  thus  formed,  its  size  depending  upon  the 
length  of  the  stalk.  This  is  the  first  link  of 
the  chain.  Link  is  added  to  Hnk^  and  the 
only  limits  to  the  length  of  the  chain  are  the 
paucity  of  dandelions  and  the  persistency  of 
the  child  making  it  Some  children  make 
necklets  of  the  chain.  I  suppose  knights' 
collars  made  of  daffodils  are  similar ;  but  the 
making  of  these  chains  cannot  be  called  a 
game.  K. 

I  think  I  used  to  make  chains  of  these 
hollow  stalks  by  simply  thrusting  the  sraaU 
into  the  large  ends  to  form  the  links,  after 
the  dead  flower  heads  had  first  been  pulled 
off  J  they  did  not  make  such  good  chains  as 
dandelion  stalks,  not  being  so  flexible. 

Thomas  J.  Jeajceb. 

Registbe  of  Births  on  Towee  Hiix  (9** 
S.  viL  329).— The  register  of  births,  marnagesi 
and  deaths  for  All  hallows,  Barking,  which  is 
only  a  stone's  throw  from  Tower  Hill,  ia 
complete  from  the  year  1558,  and  it  is  pro- 
bable that  your  correspondent  would  find 
there  the  tniorraation  he  requires. 

E\^BAED  Home  Colemait* 

71>  Brecknock  Road. 

D'AuvEEGNE  Family  (9^**  S«  vii  68,  117, 

176,  l&Ij  251.  277,  332).— Your  correspondent 
D.  is  a  little  hard  on  the  gallant  Vice- Admiral 
Philip  d'Auvergne.  Does  not  the  following 
extract  from  the  GentlemaTi'B  Magazine^  1792 
{vol,  Im.  pt,  i.  p.  485),  show  a  legal  as  dia- 
tinguishea  from  a  merely  "assumed  *'  con- 
nexion with  the  duchy  of  Bouillon  f— 

*'  Gazette  Promotions  r— Philip  d'Aavergue,  esq*. 
csaptain  in  the  roval  navy,  permivted  to  accept  and 
enjoy  for  hJmflel!  o.nd  the  heir&  male  of  hia  body 
the  nomination  and  succession  to  the  sovereignty  of 
the  duchy  of  Bouillon,  in  caae  of  the  death  of  the 
Hereditary  Prince,  onl^  son  of  hia  Serene  HighneHs 
the  ReieumR  Duke,  without  jaaue  male;  to  take, 
from  henceforth,  the  title  of  Prince  Succeaaor  to 
the  aaid  «overeipnty»  and  to  unite  the  arms  of  the 
duchy  with  his  own,  pursuant  to  a  deckration  of 
hia  said  Serene  Highneaa  the  Reigning  Duke,  dated 
Juno  25*  1791,  whereby  he  tranemits,  at  the  deaire, 
and  with  the  express  and  formal  conaent  of  the 
nation,  the  sovereignty  of  his^aaid  duchy  of  Bouillon^ 
in  caae  of  the  death  of  the  PHu-cife  KS»  ^ft^'^'x^w^ 
iwue  mail},  to  1«k«  «^4  Cw\^^  ^^^^i^  ^  l^^asvvxipd^ 


398 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9«s.yn.MATi8.iwL 


(whom  he  styles  'son  altease  Monseigneur  Philip 
d'Auvergne,  sod  Fils  adopts ')  and  the  heirs  male 
of  his  body." 

There  are  numerous  other  references  to  this 
naval  officer  in  the  Gentleman's  Magazine. 
Arthur  ¥,  Rowe. 
Walton-on-Thames. 

Count  Giuseppe  Pecchio  (9^^  S.  vi.  308, 
396  ;  vii.  61,  191).— Referring  to  the  very 
interesting  note  by  Ibagu^  at  the  last  refer- 
ence, I  should  like  to  know  whether  Ugo 
Foscolo  and  the  Rev.  H.  F.  Gary,  the  trans- 
lator of  Dante,  were  acquainted.  Gary  lived 
at  one  time  in  Park  Village,  Regent's  Park, 
not  far  from  Foscolo,  and  it  is  i>robable  that 
the  similarity  of  their  tastes  in  literature 
may  have  brought  them  together.  I  do  not 
fina  any  mention  of  their  acquaintance  in  the 
rather  meagre  memoir  of  Gary  by  his  son. 
The  Italians  seem  to  have  resented  Pecchio's 
biographical  sketch  of  Ugo  Foscolo,  but  1  do 
not  know  the  reason.  Jno.  Uebb. 

Excavations  near  Girencester  (9""  S.  vii. 
327).— Mr.  Hughes  will  probably  obtain  the 
information  he  requires  by  addressing  a  letter 
to  Mr.  William  Flux,  the  senior  partner  of 
Flux,  Thompson  &  Flux,  solicitors.  East 
India  Avenue,  E.C.  Mr.  Flux  has  tor  tlie 
last  fifty  years  been  the  treasurer  of  the 
Cirencester  Society,  which  society  has  been 
in  existence  for  at  least  two  hundred  years, 
and  holds  a  dinner  annually  in  London. 

EvERARD  Home  Goleman. 

Authors  of  Quotations  Wanted  (9^**  S. 
vii.  90).— 

And  Judgment  at  the  helm  was  set. 
From  a  pretty  poem  by  G.  P.  R.  James,  called  *  The 
Voyage  of   Lite.'     I  do  not  know  when  it  first 
appeared.    I  saw  it  in  a  volume  of  the  old  Penny 
Magazine,  G.  T.  8. 

i!^  S.  vii.  330.) 
We  live  in  deeds  not  years. 

As  a  personal  friend  of  many  years'  standing  of 
P.  J.  Bailey,  more  generally  known  as  "Festus" 
Bailey,  I  have  looked  through  the  various  editions 
of  *  Festus,'  from  the  earliest  to  the  latest,  and  I 
find  that  the  quotation  inquired  for  by  H.  J.  B.  C. 
is  from  that  work,  and  verbally  correct  so  far  as 
the  first  four  lines  are  concerned ;  hut  the  last  line 
does  not  appear  as  a  aequUur  in  any  one  of  the  six 
editions  1  possess.  Caroline  Steooall. 

Rejoice  that  man  is  hurled 

From  change  to  change  imceasingly. 
His  soul's  wings  never  furled  ! 

*  James  Lee's  Wife,'  vi.  14^ 
C.  C.  B. 

Thou  cam'st  not  to  thy  place  by  accident. 
From  a  sonnet  by  Archbishop  Trench.    It  has  no 
title,  but  is  the  second  sonnet  (p.  96)  in  the  volume 
of  Trench's  *  Poema  Collected  and  Arranged  Anew ' 
Macmiiian,  1865).  ^ii^^^- 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  Ac 

A  Descriptive  and  Historical  Catalogue  of  the  Col- 
lection of  Pictures  and  Sculpture  at  Apdey  HwLtt^ 
London,    By  Evelyn  Wellington.    2  vols.    (Long- 
mans &  Co.) 
From  whatever  point  of  view  it  is  regarded,  this 
work  is  an  honour  to  all  concerned    in  its  pro- 
duction.    Readers  of  *N.  &  Q.'  who  have  smo 
in  recent  volumes  the  sifi^ature  of  the  Ducheas  of 
Wellington  to  many  inquiries  concerning  the  artiatie 
treasures  at  Apsley  House  must  have  been  prepared 
for  its  appearance.     It  now  comes  forth  in  two 
sumptuous   volumes,    profusely   illastrated    with 
reproductions  in  phot<^ravure  of  the  principal  oil 
paintings,  and  in  an  edition  strictly  limited  to  four 
hundred  copies.    In  speaking  of  the  work  as  as 
honour  to  its  producers  we  are  using  no  words  of 
empty  compliment.     It  is  such  in  almost  every 
respect.    If  England  may  claim,  as  regards  her  art 
treasures,  an    equality  with   any  country  and  a 
supremacy  over  most,  it  is  on  the  strength  leas  of 
her  great  public  galleries— though  these  have  beao 
notably  enriched  of  late— than  of  her  private  col- 
lections,   the   contents    of    which    are   priceleai 
Amoujgrst   such    the   collection   at   Apsley  Hooia 
occupies  a  front  place.    This,  with  exemplary  dili- 
gence and  with  remarkable  erudition,  ihe  third 
duchess  has  catalogued,  supplying   to  each  item 
such  information  as  is  to  be  cierived  from  WaaseOi 
Wornum.    Hazlitt,    Ku^ler,    Cumberland,   ?9m- 
vant,  and  other  authorities,  English,  Spanish,  and 
German  ;  from  original  documents  in  the  possesuoo 
of  her  grace's  family,  and  from  researches  in  Spain 
undertaken  on  her  behalf.    It  is  difficult  to  speak 
in  terms  of  praise  too  warm  for  a  service  such  ai 
has  been  rendered  to  art,  and  we  think  with  eofy 
of  the  results  that  will  be  achieved  when  otbcr 
private  possessors  are  moved  to  emulation,  and 
anything  approaching  a  full  catalogue  raimmi  d 
the  great  pictures  in  English  galleries  is  obtaiDed, 
to  say  nothing  of  reproauctions  of  the  principal 
treasures,  such  as  are  given  in  the  present  uistiiioi. 
The  basis  of  the  Apsley  House  collection,  apart 
from  the  ancestral  portraits,  is  found  in  the  pictiini 
captured  in  the  ba^age  of  Joseph  Bonaparte  afUr 
the  rout  of  Vitoria.     These  formed  part  of  tke 
ro^al  Spanish  collections,  and    had   been  appro- 
pnated  by  Joseph,  who  was  attempting  to  oanr 
them  into  France  when  the  fortunes  of  war  ovt 
them  into  the  hands  of  his  pursuers  and  his alibai 
captors.   The  most  important  among  them  had  beea 
removed  from  or  cut  out  of  the  framei,  and  were 
in  Joseph's  private  carriage,  which  was  captsnd 
by  the  10th  Hussars  under  Capt.   Wyndham  aad 
the   Marquess   of    Worcester   after    Joseph  hi^ 
hurriedly  quitted  it  and  ridden  off  on  the  honte' 
one  of  his  escort.    Such  plunder  of  conquered  or 
invaded  countries  was  common  enough  in  the  port* 
revolutionarv  French  wars.     Since  that  tios  ii  ■' 
impression   has  prevailed   that    the   pictaiei  ^ 
Apsley  House  and  Strathtieldsaye  were,  Inr  a  pio- 
cess  customary  (and  perhaps  diefensibfe)  m  vaii 
appropriated  by  the  conqueror.    This  imiiiMMni 
the  duchess  is  at  pains  to  remove,  sboirajl  ^"^ 
clusively  that,  though  the  charge  thai  tht  didbi 
regarded  them  as  spoils  of  war  was  broi«hl  in  the 
*  Viage  Artistioo'  of  Senor  M&draso.  iiwM  hMi' 
yVisa,   The  first  Duke  of  WeUington  '"^ 


9»  a  viLBiAY  18.1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


899 


,  .in  through  his  brother,  Sir  Henry 
ritish   Minister  in  Spain,  with   the 


anin  and 
Wellesley, 

Regency,  requesting  that  some  one  in  London 
might  be  commissioned  to  see  and  receive  the 
pictures,  and  ultimately  wrote  a  formal  letter  to 
Count  Feman  Nunez,  the  Spanish  Minister  in  Eng- 
land, to  the  same  enect,  receiving  an  answer  that 
the  monarch,  touched  with  the  delicacy  of  the 
proceeding,  aid  not  wish  to  deprive  the  duke  of 
possessions  obtained  **  by  means  as  just  as  they  are 
nonourable." 

Nothing  approaching  a  complete  or  satisfac- 
tory cat&lojgue  of  the  Apaley  House  pictures  has 
previously  been  made.  '  A  Catalogue  of  the  Prin- 
cipal Pictures  found  in  Baggage  of  Joseph  Bona- 
parte' was  compiled  by  Mr.  Seguier  on  their  arrival 
IS  London.  This  was  inaccurate  in  important 
respects.  Information  was  with  difficulty  obtained. 
The  ascription  to  various  painters  was  wrong,  the 
well-known  *  Water -Seller'  of  Velasciuez  being 
assigned  to  M.  A.  Caravaggio.  Many  of  the  works 
were  not  identified.  This  list  the  duchess  re])rints 
with  all  its  errors,  adding  only  some  marginal  notes 
and  the  numbers  borne  oy  the  various  pictures  in 
her  own  catalogue.  In  1841  a  MS.  catalogue  of  the 
Wellington  heirlooms  was  made.  This  also  was 
incorrect.  Lists  of  the  pictures  were  issued  in 
1853  by  Messrs.  Mitchell  of  Bond  Street  and  Clarke 
k  Co.  of  the  Strand.  They  occupied,  however,  no 
more  than  four  pages  each.  Rough  notes,  of  no 
special  value,  were  made  by  the  secretary  to  the 
second  duke.  Fortunately,  the  heirloom  catalogue 
was  trustworthy  in  the  main.  On  this  the  present 
work  is  foundea.  Access  has  been  had  to  various 
royal  Spanish  manuscript  catalogues,  and  by  means 
of  these  the  great  majority  of  the  pictures  have 
been  identified.  To  Major  Martin  Hume  is  ascribed 
this  part  of  the  research.  He  obtained  per- 
mission to  examine  the  palace  archives,  and  suc- 
ceeded in  unearthing  catalogues  the  existence  of 
which  had  been  invariably  and  officially  denied. 
Ad  appropriate  frontispiece  to  the  work  consists 
of  a  reproduction  of  a  picture  by  John  Massey 
Wright,  presenting  the  rout  at  Vitoria  and  the 
eaptnre  of  Joseph  Bona))arte's  ba^:gage,  one  of  two 
pictures  of  incidents  in  the  Peninsular  War  pur- 
chased by  the  third  Duke  of  Wellington. 

The  collection  is  richest  in  Dutch  and  Spanish 
pictures.  Among  the  former  is  the  famous  picture 
by  Peter  de  Hooch,  or  de  Hooghe,  called,  when  it 
was  exhibited  at  the  British  Institution,  *  A  Lady 
at  her  Toilette,'  but  now  renamed  *  A  Conversation.' 
Jan  Steen  is  scarcely  to  be  seen  at  his  best  else- 
where ;  and  Van  der  Heyden,  Wouvermans,  Teniers, 
Claude  Lorraine,  and  Ostade  are  well  repre- 
sented. Amonff  the  half-dozen  fine  pictures  by 
Velasquez  which  are  reproduced  is  the  sui^ro 
*  Portrait  of  a  Gentleman,'  which  was  long,  but 
erroneously,  taken  for  a  likeness  of  the  painter 
himself.  It  is  said  to  have  once  hung  in  the 
principal  9alon  of  the  Prince  of  Asturias  in  the 
palace  at  Madrid.  A  companion  picture,  no  less 
perfect  in  detail,  which  once  hung  in  the  same 
so/or,  is  the  portrait  of  Po]>e  Innocent  X.  by  the 
same  artist.  Another  '  Portrait  of  a  Gentleman,'  by 
Hnrillo,  which  was  exhibited  in  1837  at  the  Briti^n 
Institution,  was  not  among  the  Bonaparte  prizes, 
bat  was  purchased  in  London  by  the  first  duke  in 
18SHS.  Tne  exquisite  *  Christ  in  the  Garden'  of 
Correggio,  held  by  some  to  be  the  masterpiece  of 
tiuit  artist»  is  also  reproduced.  A  mere  enumera- 
tkn  of  the  treasures  comprised  in  the  collection 


would  occupy  more  space  than  we  are  able  to  assign 
to  reviews.  In  every  case  the  size  of  the  picture, 
ita  description,  and  its  source  (when  known)  are 
I  given,  together  with  the  dates  and  places  of  exhi- 
'  bition,  and  particulars  of  prices  realized  at  various 
sales.  Among  the  works  in  the  collection  are  twelve 
pictures  jiresented  to  the  first  Duke  of  Wellington 
m  1812  by  the  Intendant  of  Segovia  on  the  part  of 
the  Spanish  nation,  together  with  others  bought 
by  the  duke  in  Pans  in  1817  and  1818.  Some  diffi- 
culty has  been  experienced  in  the  case  of  the 
Segovia  pictures,  only  two  of  which  have  been 
identified.  Much  interesting  criticism  is  supplied 
from  the  Athtmeufn,  and  from  Smith's  *  Catalogue 
Raisonne,'  and  extracts  are  given  from  the  cata- 
logues of  the  Parisian  sales  in  which  some  of  the 
works  were  purchased.  The  T)ortraits  by  Hoppner, 
two  of  whicn  are  reproduced,  have  much  interest. 
In  all  tjTpographical  respects  the  work  is  excellent, 
the  process  pictures  are  admirable,  and  the  binding 
in  vellum  and  canvas,  with  the  Wellington  arms  on 
the  side,  is  tasteful.  The  catalogue  must  occupy  a 
place  in  every  well-chosen  artistic  library. 

Gierke't  Political    Theories   of  the    Middle    AatA, 
Translated   by  F.   W.    Maitland.     (Cambridge, 
University  Press. ) 
This  book  is  a  boon  to  all  students  of  legal  and 
political  ideas.    It  is  welcome  on  three  grounds. 

1.  The  text  of  the  section  of  the  *  Genossenschaft- 
recht'  here  rendered  into  English  forms  the  best, 
and  indeed  the  only  complete  conspectus  of  the 
political  literature  of  the  Middle  Ages.  The  sur- 
vey is  rapid,  and  does  not  always  take  sufficient 
account  of  the  minor  controversies  which  were 
the  occasion  of  the  great  majority  of  the  treatises. 
It  suffers  a  little  from  the  German  love  for  over- 
generalization  ;  but  for  all  that,  and  in  spite  of 
the  difficulty  of  following  at  times  the  line  of 
thought,  it  is  the  most  valuable  piece  of  writing 
that  exists  on  the  subject.  It  is  a  boon  to  have 
it  in  an  English  dress  and  admirably  translated. 

2.  The  notes  are  the  best  guide  that  we  know 
among  the  hitherto  almost  pathless  wilderness  of 
mediaeval  political  pamphleteering.  Many  of  those 
who  know  the  Middle  Ages  fairly  well  must  be 
ignorant  of  the  names  even  of  some  among  the  mass 
ot  writers  cited  by  Dr.  Gierke.  Still  more  useful 
is  it  to  have  the  references  to  their  views  on  any 

5 articular  notion  in  politics  all  gathered  together, 
'he  notes  will  be  to  the  serious  student  the  most 
valuable  portion  of  the  text,  and  a  reference  even 
to  a  few  of  the  authorities  will  fill  in  with  flesh 
and  blood  the  somewhat  dry  bones  of  Dr.  (xierke's 
essay.  Probably  their  very  number  will  be  a  reve- 
lation to  most  readers,  though  a  glance  at  the 
volumes  *  De  Lite'  ought  to  carry  conviction  of 
the  wealth  of  words,  if  not  of  thought,  which  the 
politico-ecclesiastical  confiict  evoked. 

3.  The  introduction  is  the  most  interesting  as  it 
is  the  most  brilliant  part  of  the  book.  Prof.  Mait- 
land is  at  his  very  best  in  these  images.  Its  object 
is  to  illustrate  the  context  rather  t-han  the  text  of 
the  translated  section,  and  to  show  the  bearing  of 
political  ideas  on  Koiyoratioiia-lehre  and  rice  vtrad. 
It  is  impossible  to  describe  or  even  outline  the 
course  of  the  argument  within  the  limits  of  this 
notice.  But  its  wit,  insight,  and  erudition  ought 
to  win  for  it  many  readers  whom  the  subject  does 
not  attract.  Yet  the  subject  itself  ought  to 
attract.  For  the  queaUon  d<^\»\«^  S&  t«»^  >iXA&\ 
What  is  the  meamiv^  ol  i.  ikxab^.  ^bc^'«^\  \a  ^^^ 


400 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,      [»»8.  vilmay18.mm. 


something  more  than  the  sum  of  its  members  ?  If 
so,  ought  it  not  to  be  called  a  person?  Now  this 
question,  or  the  attempt  to  answer  it,  really  in- 
volves the  formation  of  a  complete  theory  as  to 
the  relations  of  the  individual  to  society;  t.e.,  it 
touches  on  one  of  the  fundamental  problems  of 
theology,  ethics,  politics,  philosophy,  so  far  as  they 
are  to  aflfect  practice.  More,  however,  we  will  not 
say  here.  Tne  pages  must  be  read  and  re-read, 
and  they  should  attract  a  far  wider  public  than  the 
comparatively  few  students  of  scientitic  jurispru- 
dence. 

*  Woodcuts  and  thk  Illustration  op  Books,' 
in  the  Edinburgh  Rtview^  is  by  one  who  has  made  a 
study  of  modern  illustration,  and  is  bv  no  means 
satisfied  with  the  present  condition  of  the  art  when 
contrasted  with  what  it  was  even  a  short  time  ago. 
He  speaks  of  the  **  execrable  form  of  draughtsman- 
ship evoked  by  the  exigencies  of  the  process-block." 
We  fuUv  agree  with  his  condemnation.  Such  things 
should  be  reserved  for  advertisements  and  fashion- 
books.  We  are  in  full  sympathy  with  most  of  his 
criticisms.  No  one  has  received  praise  who  did 
not  deserve  it ;  but  we  do  not  by  any  means  accept 
the  relative  positions  allotted  to  Rossetti  and 
Millais.  Is  it  quite  fair  to  say  **  beside  Millais 
Rossetti  was  a  giant "  ?  It  should  not  be  forgotten 
that  we  have  much  more  of  Millais's  work  than 
wo  have  of  that  of  Rossetti,  and  consequently  we 
encounter  more  that  is  second  and  third  rate. 
Sometimes,  too,  praise  is  given  in  the  wrong  place, 
as  when  '  Was  it  a  Lie?  (which  appeared  in  the 
Comhill)  is  spoken  of  as  a  "superb  picture."  In 
*The  Harley  Papers'  we  have  sound  and  con- 
scientious labour.  It  is  painfully  dull :  but  this  is 
manifestly  the  fault  of  his  subject,  not  ot  the  writer. 
Harley  was  never  intended  bv  nature  for  a  poli- 
tician, and  consequently  could  never  throw  his 
whole  heart  into  the  game  with  sufficient  spirit  to 
make  his  career  interesting  to  any  but  his  imme- 
diate contemporaries.  Though  he  rose  from  cir- 
cumstances over  which  he  had  little  control  to  a 
high  place,  his  merits  and  shortcomings  alike  were 
those  of  a  Government  hack.  As  a  collector  of 
manuscripts  and  printed  books  he  deserves,  and 
will  retain,  our  warmest  regard,  but  in  other  lines 
we  must  class  him  with  the  men  who  have  mis- 
taken their  vocation.  The  paper  on  Mr.  Leslie 
Stephen's  *  English  Utilitarians '  deserves  attention, 
especially  as  we  fear  the  work  is  far  too  good  and 
evenly  balanced  to  be  read  as  widely  as  it  deserves. 
The  review  is  one  of  the  very  best  commentaries  on  a 
mode  of  thought  which,  narrow  and  unscientific  as  it 
was,  led  directly  to  many  beneficent  changes  in  the 
law,  and  indirectly  to  much  of  the  social  improve- 
ment of  modern  days.  The  estimate  of  Bentbam  is 
not  a  flattering  one.  Of  the  sage's  perfect  honesty 
no  fair  man  can  now  have  any  doubt,  and  that  his 
practical  ability  was  great  it  is  unreasonable  to  call 
m  question,  but  his  power  of  abstract  thought  was 
small— perhaps  even  less  than  the  writer  himself 
realizes.  He  was  never  able  to  dissociate  ideas 
from  the  environment  in  which  they  at  the  moment 
presented  themselves  to  his  nnderstandine.  The 
remarks  on  the  young^er  Mill  are  just  and  Kindly. 
The  utilitarianism  which  he  taught  is  so  divergent 
from  that  of  his  predecessors  that  a  careless  reader 
who  knew  little  of  the  ways  of  **  thinkers"  might 
rehd  many  pages,  and  then  close  the  book  with 
the  impnuion  that  Mill  belonged  to  an  o^wMite 
school  of  thought  from  that  of  which  he  wia  Vf  l«x 


the  widest-minded  representative.  The  paper  oo 
Canada  hardly  comes  within  our  province.  We  mty 
say,  however,  that  the  historical  portion— that  it, 
aearly  the  whole— is  of  great  value.  *  M.  Maurice 
Maeterlinck,  Moralist  and  Artist,'  will  repsy 
perusal ;  but  we  wish  the  writer  had  put  inore 
clearly  the  ideas  he  wishes  to  convey. 

Man  for  May  opens  with  a  description  by  Mr. 
Henry  Balfour  of  *  Memorial  Heads  from  the  New 
Hebrides  and  Solomon  Islands  in  the  Pitt  Riven 
Museum.'  That  these  Strang  and  primitive  designs 
involve  an  effort  at  portraiture  is  established  by 
the  realistic  manner  in  which  the  deformity  known 
as  hare-lip  is  reproduced  in  Figures  I.  and  U.  of 
the  accompanying  plate.  Dr.  Rudolf  Herzog  for^ 
nishes  some  curious  specimens  of  pre-Hellenic  script 
found  in  the  island  of  Ck>s.  Prof.  Franz  Camont 
gives  some  observations  on  the  '  Acta  of  St  Dssina,' 
which  contain  a  recantation  of  views  previouly 
expressed  as  to  the  possibility  in  the  fourth  ceo- 
tury  of  human  sacrifice  to  the  Koman  deities.  Thii 
paper  is  sent  in  by  Dr.  J.  G.  Fraser.  Artieki 
on  *  Relics  from  Chinese  Tombs*  and  on  *  Carved 
Door|)osts  from  the  West  of  Africa'  are conspicaooi 
in  an  excellent  number. 


We  hear  with  much  regret  of  the  death  on  the  3rd 
inst.,  at  St.  Petersburg,  aged  fifty-two,  after  a  short 
illness,  of  Henry  £^t  Morgan,  the  grandsoo  of 
Stephen  Morgan,  of  St.  Petersburg.  H.  £.  M.  wu 
a  regular  contributor  of  bright  and  interestint 
notes  to  these  columns  on  a  variety  of  snbjecti, 
mainly  connected  with  Russia,  for  some  yesn. 
The  family  have  been  prominent  members  of  tiie 
British  colony  at  St.  Petersburg  for  the  grester 
part  of  a  century. 


We  must  call  special  aUetUitm  to  tki  foOomM 
notices:^ 

On  all  communications  must  be  written  the  dibs 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  forpsb' 
lication,  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Ws  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privitoly- 

To  secure  insertion  of  commonicatioos  oont- 
spondents  must  observe  the  following  rales.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  oo  a  aepsnt* 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  ud 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  soiwer 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  prefioai 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exset 
heading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repest 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  secood  oo»* 
munication  **  Duplicate." 

Innes  ( '*  DAuverspe  Family  ").— Please  Msd 
address  ;  we  may  be  in  a  position  to  oommonicAte 
matter  of  interest-. 

yOT/CE. 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addrsMed  to 
'*  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries ' "— Advsrtiie- 
ments  and  Business  Letters  to  "The  Pnblishff*'' 
at  theOffioe,Bream'8BQildiiigB,|Caiaiioer7Laiis,X.C 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  deoline  toi«l«> 
oommunioatioDs  which,  for  any  reMoo.  we  do  Ml 
\vcuv\i%  «3DA\A\3D&ari]A  we  QUI  aakt  no 


••  8.  vn.  Mat  w,  MOL]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN   LITEttATURB,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


J3U  ATUKNjKUM  fw  Ma^  11  «MiteiiM  ArUOm  on 
MOBB  MOm  bwt  ft  DIAKT. 
Tto  MBW  BMOUSH  DIOnONiLRT. 
Aa  BABLT  YOTAOB  to  JAPAM. 

nmotTHSHW  Mi  tka  oBowir  hb-iditbd. 

Mm  ITAUAll  M  tka  nOHCB  KBYOLUTIOM. 

mw  llO?BL8:— Tte  H«llM«;  AaKmc  Iha  SyHagM;  Th« 

BoMi  Tk« Bta«fc irQft  Btwd;  LoT«  th«  LMRvd ;  ▲•  lk« Twig ia 

B«t;TlttvalL 
BIBU0OBA.PH1CAL  LRBBATUBB. 
OVB  LIBBABT  TABLB-UBT  Of  NBW  BOOKS. 
TIM    BDWABIMM    UBBABT;     Tk«    BABLT     BNOUBH     TBXT 

•OOUTT ;  OUBM  ud  "  CBOWDT  ";  TiM  FBA8BR  8ALB. 


■OIBMCB-lBo  Moitk  UMriMM  Of  Tottordoy;  SooioUM;  Mootian 

Mod  Wook ;  llmglp 
nBBABTtT-Tko  Bgrol  AflMomji  TrtOMMO  BlffBorteli  TIm  0«Ud- 


MimiO-Loateo  MwlMl  FOMlTiJ;  Tko  /eooklm  QoMtot;  Ubnur 
TiUo  i  B.  r  Birott )  eoMlp  {  roKfni—mi  B wk  Wook. 

DEAMA  — 'Bioa  Autim';  'MoMlrt'-.    'A  Womoo  la  Iko  Omo'; 


J3U  ATHBNjKUM  fw  Arm  n  wnlaiiu  ilrMclM  on 
ULmLUCAHV  BBMIIIItaBNOBt. 
no  imiBBABT  of  BDWABD  L 
urn  BOBBBT  HABT  0»  GBIBA. 
noBOBTOBT  of  tko  CHUBOH  Of  aOOTLAMD. 


MBW  W3fWmA> 


\  Owo  VMkor i  Ijabotk ;  Tko  tUTor  IkoU:  Tko 
fUk^%  AAvoolvo;  Tko  Tkioo  Doyr  Torror;  Pro  FMriA}  WImU 
mm  oyi  LOTO;  Auo  LMkord;  MoncoiBs  of  MoMwltf:  toor 
Oiofo— o  ioUk  Oooo. 

MBIBAU>«ICAL  LITBBATUBB. 

BBOBIIT  YBBIB. 

BOOKS  0«  BOTFT. 

BOOMOMIC  LTTBBATITBB. 

OUK  UBEABT  TiBf.B    I.IIIT  Of  BBW  BOOKS. 

no  Mo  BISHOP  Of  OXPOBD;  SALSS;  BTBON.  KBATA.  Mi 
BBTBOLDSi  SOMB  UMPOBUSHBD  BPIOBAMS  kf  THOMAS 
VUIiLBB ;  AT>ttT»*T.  gm  CHABLBS  BAPIBB. 

UTBBABl  BOtSIP. 


_     »•■*  P»oook  0Mk04raU;  Tko  Bow 

Oolkty ;  TMoMpfco  of  noMk  BiffimvlM  t  Solo* :  OoMlp. 
mwiC   Bawlf;  PmImmmm  Host  Wook. 
]KAMA-*OontT»nM';  •  A  Boyol  Bo«kteoo ' ;  'SwootudTwootf '; 


TU  ATHBNMUM  fttr  May  k  amtetm  Artielu  on 
Tko  XISTORT  of  tko  BNOLISH  JBSUITS. 
FBANCI8  HUTCHBSOM'S  PHILOSOPHY. 
BBOOLLBUnOMS  of  MALATA. 
SAIMTB-BBUYB. 
BIOHTBBIITH-GBIITURT  MBMOIBS. 

NBW  H0YBL8 :— Tko  Soprtmo  CrtMO;   Yojaoy  s  Qoooa't  MatOi  Tko 

Wlan ollko  Moralaff :  Lo  No«t«w Ooa /laa. 
SPORTS  aad  PASTIMB8. 
SHOKT  STOUBS. 

OUB  LIBBABT  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
OBITIOA  CBITIOIZBD:  Tko  PBASBR  SALB;  Tko  Imio  Mr.  OSOHOB 

SMITH 

AXM— 

LITBBABT  OOSSIP. 

SOIBIICB-^)niitkolOfi«lUtoiat«ro:  Soototiot;  MMtiag*  Nost  Wook 


PINBABTS    Bgoairt  Art  at  tko  OoiMkall ;  Tko  Baloat  of  Iftil ;  Maria 
OMway* '  Cyatkta  'i  Balo  s  OoMlp. 


MVSIO-'Tko  ] 

MaatoalFotttTal; 

DRAMA-'  Tko  Qaooa'*  Doaklo 


Tko  Jooaklm  Oaftrtott  Tko  Loadoa 
tW«ok. 

OOMlp; 


iNost^ 

i  '  Tko  Maa  from  Blaakloy'* '{ 


ipoMiklOi  Tko  Oolaaa;  Moaoala:  Tko 
raal  Qaoat ;  Tko  Bmoot  of  Balat  Ooomo  : 
AOMtflaalaadktoOoaMleaM. 


Tlu  ATHSNASUM/w  Apt^il  $0  contaim  Artielm  on 
LADY  OBAMYILLB'S  WIDOWHOOD. 
BARNAOK  oa  OHRISTIANITY. 
A  NBW  BOOK  oa  OARDBNIMO. 
SOUTH  AVBICA  a  CBNTUBT  AGO. 
Tko  AMBRICAM  MBOBO  Of  TO-DAY. 
Tko  MTSTBBIBS  of  ISIS. 

NBW  BOYBLS :  -Bakt  tko  Ii 

Tklrd  Floor:  Tko  Btomi 

Mary  Broy.  kor  Mark 
BOOKS  oa  tko  WAB. 
BNOLISH  HISTOBY. 

OUR  UBBARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
Tko    LONDON    LIBRARY     CATALOOUB;     ADMIRAL     NAPIBR) 

"BOOKS  aad  LBTTBBS";  CURDS  aad  "OBOWDY":  ROYAL 

LIBHARIBS  aad  PAPYRUS  la  PBCBNICIA ;  BYRON,   KBATS. 

aad  RBYNOLDS)  CRITIOA  CRITICUBD. 

Alm- 
LTTBRARY  OOSSIP. 

SOIBNCB  — AMroaonleol  NdM 

Wook  i  Oowlpw 
FINB  ARTS-Now  BaffUsk  Art  Clak ;  OOMlp. 
MUSIO-OoMlp :  PorforattaoM  N«at  Wook. 
DBAMA-'Ooriolaaao' aad  'Tko  WUdorsMt' ;  OoMlp. 


Salo;   Sodotloti    Mfottagt  Noxt 


l%e  ATHBNMUM,  mry  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    C    raANCIS,    AlbMUBum    OffioB,    Braam's  BnUdiogs,    Chancer?  Lane,   K.r. 

And  of  all  ll«wMg«itt. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     i9»&vn.MATM,miL 

Crown  8vo,  pp.  620,  oloib,  Persian  moroooo  back,  top  edge  gilt,  5«. 

CLASSICAL  AND  FOREIGN  QUOTATIONS, 

Law  Terms  and  Maxims,  Proverbs,  Mottoes,  Phrases  and  Expressions 
in  French,  German,  Greek,  Italian,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  Portuffuese, 

WITH    TRANSLATIONS,  REFERENCES,  EXPLANATORY    NOTES  and   INDEXES. 

By  WM.  FRANCIS  HENRY  KING,  M.A.,  Ch.  C!h.,  Oxford. 


London:   J.   WHITAKER   &   SONS,    12,   Warwick   Lane,   K.C. 

WHITAKER'S    PEERAGE. 

A   COMPLETE   PEERAGE,   BARONETAGE,   KNIGHTAGE  AND 

COMPANIONAGE. 

Whitaker's  Peerage  contaios  everythiDg  osnally  sought  for  in  a  work  of  the  kind,  with  many  partionlin 

not  to  be  found  elsewhere. 

ENLARGED   AND    IMPROVED. 

PRICE   TWO   SHILUNGS  AND   SIXPENCE. 

Or  fall  royal  blae  roan,  gilt  edges,  4s.  6d.  o^*^ 


whitae:er's  almanack  for  isoi. 

This  has  been  again  enlarged  by  sixteen  pages,  and  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  informatioDf 
contains  the  Members  of  the  New  Parliament,  the  newly  constituted  London  Borough  Councils,  and  tbe 
new  London  School  Board,  also  a  variety  of  other  interesting  Articles  on  subjects  of  General  Interest 

Crown  8vo,  paper  covers,  Is. ;  or,  with  Appendix,  half  bound,  28.  6d. 


London :  J.  WHITAKER  &  SONS,   12,  Warwick  Lane,  E.C. 

PMBlad  bj 'OHM  BDWARD  FEAMCIB,  Aliimmna VT«M,^BmA'%««Ui«l3Bn,Ohaae0tT  LaM. ■.atfad P«MMm« If 


NOTES   AND    QUERIES: 

%  ^Ham  oi  |ntercaminnntatt0n 


LITERARY     MEN, 


fOB 

GENERAL 


READERS,     ETC. 


fomid,  make  a  note  of."— Captain  Cuttlb. 


No.  178.  [ILSS.] 


Saturday,  May  26,  1901. 


i    Pbiob  Vovbpbboe. 

(   Hiyi'iiiiW  mt  m  ttmnpmptr. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 
toMOTBS  AKv  QUBRIMfkM  bf  port  IslOf.  id,  f or  Six  Mmths ; 
or  ao«.  6il.  for  Twotro  Moatht.  ladttdlBV  tho  Volvao  ladoz.-JOUM  O. 
FaAWCM,  yiM  mmd  Qwtim  Oflco,  Hniiii'> ""    ~" 


T^HE    CORONATION    of    QUEEN    VICTORIA. 

FOR  BALB,  ft  Oopj  of  tho  SUN.  Socond  Bdition.  Jue  38.  MS, 
prtatod  la  Gold,  eoatftlnliif  ft  F«U  Aeeooat  of  tho  Q«eo«'«  Ooronatioft 
oad  ft  Dooorlpcioft  of  the  Slolo  Gftrriftffio  of  Mftnhal  SoaU  ftod  tbo 
oikor  ▲mbftMftdors  -Oflbto  reqMMod  to  S.,  ▲tkoaaam  ProN,  Broftm's 
BftUdiBS*.  Cbftiioorr  Lftfto.  1.0. 

BOOKS,  MSS.,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  & 
00..  ▲ftotloftoero  of  Book«  and  Utoiftrj  Proporty  of  ererj 
dooenpttoa.  litoarioo  ftsd  MnftUor  OoUcetiofto  oftrofuUy  UMftlogMd 
•fti  prempclf  oObrod  for  Sftlo.  Ffteklait  ftftd  Bomoral  ftmuifod  for. 
VftlMttftOBa  Buido  for  Probaio  or  otter  porpoeoe.  AMaoft  Booms,  116, 
OtaMorylMefVlott  Street  oftd).   letftUlebod  UOSl 

00K8.— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS    sup- 

pUod,  ao  iMSter  oa  wiutt  Sftbjeet.  Aekaowledf  ed  tlie  wortd  over 
•e  tkc  BMO*  espon  Boohtodore  cztftot.  Pleea*  tiftte  wafttft.— lUJU&'S 
ereftt  Bookeftop.  14-lS,  Join  Brif  ht  Street,  Blrmlafftem. 

pULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

^  for  Seftrebee  ftftd  Anthefttleliifoniifttloarespeetlat 

ARMOaiAL   BBABIN08  AND  PAJULT    DBSCBMrS, 

with  ft  Sepftfftte  Depftrtment  for  the  Artletle  Prodsetioa  of 

HBBALDIO  PAINTING  AND  BNO&AYINO. 

Boeh-rifttee,  SeftU.  Dies,  Slnet  Rinfft.  LlTorj  Battona.  Created  Note- 

^,  Ylamajr  and  larltftttoa  Oaria,  *e. 


83.  FIOCAIULLT.  LONDON  (oppoolte  the  Green  Park). 


M^ 


THB  DB  LA  MOBB  PRB88. 

PEBPABINO  for  PUBUOATION,  ft  New  Work  of  freftt  Artiatlfl, 

Ulatorieal,  Antlqaariaa.  and  Topogiftphioal  Interaat. 

rONASTIC    SEALS   of   the    THIRTEENTH 

CBNTUBT.   With  the  BngUahOffloeftor  their  BoeepUott. 

BO  PoU-Paco  Plfttee  la  OoUotype.    With  Hlitorioftl  Istroduetlott  ftnd 

Deeerlpare  Notes  hj 

OALB  PBDBICK.  PJLRlsLSoc. 

Preeeated  In  OMrFued  Trpe,  bonnd  la  pftrehment.  ftnd  gltt  lettered. 

Price  to  BiUMcrlhers  before  pabUeattoa.  lU.  aet^  after  whieh  tt  will  be 

Spedaiea  Plate  and  Proepeetas  free. 
Addrees:   8>.  High  Helbora,  London,  W.C 


rOX    HUMANA. 


ATHBNlfiUM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS,  Prtater  of  the  Atkmmum.  VUu  m»d  QiMriM,  *e..  la 
Mpvad  so  SUBMIT  BSTIMATB8  forQ  kinds  of  BOOK*  NBWS. 
MdrpaRIOOlCAL  printing.— U,  Bream's  Bvildiafa,  Ohaneerf 
Iaas,B.C. 

EXCHANGE  (or  would  SUB-LET)  for  THREE 
MONTHS,  a  HOU8X  in  Soath-West  Snbvrb  (SSI.  rental)  for  a 
Wsiitsaee  la  the  Ooaatry,  or  Seaside.— Apply  P..  Athenawm  Press, 
Jhsam'a  Balknats,  B.a 


These  exqoisite  rones  should  hftTo  mftny  re ,_. 

the  note  of  his  fsnins  is  heard.    We  hope  the  promised  remlniscenoM 
ippear  ■oon."— BrfliiA  Wttkif. 

ome  pieoes  are  lUisIr  to  oommaad  a  larie  andlenee.   '  The  Loom ' 
Bof  these, 'T"-"  — ' "~"  "     " 


By  JoBN   Mills,  Banker. 

In  every  poem 

„ ..  _  AODO  UM  nnwnisflfl *~' 

will  appear  ■oon."— BrfliiA  R^irek^. 

'•  Some  pieoes  are  Uksir  to  oommai 

is  one  of  these. '  The  Law '  another.' —GlM^ew  HtnM, 
T.  PIBHBR  VNWIN. 

FROM     TINDER-BOX     to     the     *' LARGER" 
UOHT.   Threads  from  the  Lifs  of  John  MiUs.  Banker.   later - 
woToa  with  some  Barly  KecoUecUoas  by  his  WIPB.    6«. 

"The  charmlnf  freshness  and  abeorMnjr  interest  of  thii  ezoellent 
bloflrraphy.   A  dellffhtfal  book  delightfally  written." 

"  The  literary  flaronr  is  deiigt]  iifu  t .  —i^uHtd^'j  rd 

"In  Cast  the  pafee  of  thislinoib  n^rcnJ  »  prtH»«iloii  ntiht  ii^f&ry 
and  philanthrople  oelebrlties  or  csic  ivt  nitj  T»n,sj}ij  tht  Cnme  i* 
worthy  of  the  portmit.    There  tt  nui  Pce  sapcrHROiai  l«ticT. " 

"No  fntnre  local  historian  »n  nM^ri  to  oTarlcnk  ike  pletare  of 
Rochdale  as  it  was  between  USO  «nil  iSACi.  It  peJpiutH  with  the  very 
atmoephere  of  the  miae.  The  chipt«^ri  dollnir  mth  Nmotwleh  dlcplaT 
anatlTeppwer  of  obeerratlon  scLd  lit«raryirve  uS  i&ul  of  a  bleb 
The  readers  of  many  at  cha  detenpuont  will  Itc-  irrftLitiltly 


reminded  of  the  qnlet  hnmomr  and  iimnii^  charm  at  Ktn-^  tiukc'li'i 
'  Craaford.'  "—Manehttter  CUv  A«wt. 

BHBBBATT  ft  HUGHBS,  ICaaeheeter. 

NOW  RBADY,  8B00ND  BDmON.  RBYISBD  aad  AUGMBNTBD. 
priee  Sizpenoe. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN.  &A.  P.R.A.S. 
O.  STONBMAN.  S9.  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 

NOW  RBADT,  SBOOND  BDITION.  RBYISBD  ftnd  BNLAROBD. 

I^HE  PENNY  CHRONOLOGY:  a  Series  of 
.  Importftnt  Dates  in  the  History  of  the  Wortd  from  the  Relffn  of 
DsTld  to  the  Present  Time.  Second  Bditton.  By  W.  T.  LYNnTra. 
P.R.A.S. 

G.  STONBMAN,  S9.  Warwick  Laae.  B.O. 

0  so  pad  Bdltion,  price  Ponipeaee. 

BRIEF      LESSONS      in       ASTRONOMY. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN.  B.A.  P.R.A.S. 
Otmreya  «  grcM  deal  el  laf  oraution  withont  beinc  in  any  way  dry 

O.  STONBMAN,  S9.  Warwick  Laae,  B.C. 


Biffhth  Bdltion,  price  SUpence,  cloth. 

REMARKABLE  COMETS  :  a  Brief  Survey  of  the 
'  most  interesOniPacts  In  the  History  of  Oometary  Astronomy 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  bXt.RA.8. 

SAMPSON  LOW  ft  00.  St.  Dnnstaa's  Uoaso,  Fstter  Lane,  B.C. 

TBNTU  BDmON,  price  Two  Shilllnga. 

/CELESTIAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    of 

\y   AstroBomy.    Tenth  Bditton.    With  3  Platee.    By  W.  T.  LYNN 
RA.  F.R.A.S. 
"  Well  known  as  one  of  onr  best  IntrodneUons  to  astroaomy." 

Ommtdiim. 
SAMPSON  LOW  ft  00.  St.  Dnnstan's  Hoase.  POtter  Laae,  RO. 


STICKPHAST    PASTE    is   HEAPS  better  than 
Gam  for  sttcking  in  Seimps.  Joiniac  Pa:v«ta.%it.  «A.<»a!^\%.^>8^ 
stroaff ,  Bssfal  Brash  ta<A  »  Toi  \.  Vaa  va«  wasKva  >a  wnwt  \«fM^ 
tor  ft  Mspto  B«Ma,  \BiAaA!^  «ru^.    Y%Mnn.  ^^«»  y>^v^^?^^ 
BaMV,R.Q.    OtaXklMioajnt      "■ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (9^  ^  vil  mat  %  i«l 


Every  8 A  TURD  A  F,  of  any  BookadUr  or  Ntmagtnt, 
Price  THREEPENCE. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OF 

ENGLISH   etna  FOREIGN  LITERATURE 

and  the  DRAMA. 


Tht  ATHENjEUH  for  May  18  eofOaitu  ArUeUt  on 

The  MAM  IB  the  I&OM  MABK. 

The  BYOLUnOM  of  the  BMOLI8H  BIBLB. 

The  LIFE  Of  MBS.  LYMM  LIMTOM. 

SIR  WALTBB  BBSAMT  oa  BAST  LONDON. 

A  NBW  STUDY  of  BOLINOBROKB. 

A  OBRMAN  PHILOBOPHBB'S  IDBAL  of  HUMANITY. 

TWO  TRANSLATIONS  from  ITALIAN  POBTB. 

NBW  N0VBL6 :-Tbe  Warden  of  the  Marches:  On  Inter's  Island; 
Noithborowh  Cross ;  Afield  and  Afloat ;  Cinders ;  The  Stiaaffe  Bx- 
perlenoesof  Mr.  Verschoyle;  Prince  Rnpert  the  Bnocaneer;  Raj's 
banchitr;  The  Gamblers ;  Plato's  Handmaidens  A  Patehed-vp 

CANADA  and  the  UNITBD  8TATB8. 

BDUCATIONAL  UTBRATUKB. 

MILITARY  BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

OENBRAL  GORDON;    The   BARLY    BNOLI8H    TBXT  SOCIBTY ; 

"DORMANCY":     OOWBR'S     '  MIROUR     de     I'OMMB';    The 

JBSUm  tn  BNGLAND  ;  8ALB. 


LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

"'''BNOB :  -  Anthropfp.*.....     «—«. .     .u^ 
Societiee ;  Meetiafs  Next  Week ;  Ooeaip. 


Christian    Manlaiaa; 


VINB  ARTS -.—The  Royal  Aeademyt  Mr.  John's  Drawings  at  Mesert. 

Oarfhx's  t  The  Relss  BngiaTlngs ;  tfales ;  OiMrtp. 
MUGIC:-Royal  Italian  Opera;  Mr.  Torey's  Recital;  Philharmoale 

Coneert;  'Hie  Jeaohim  Qnartet;  Mr.  Baner's  Pianoforte  Recital ; 

Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :>•  The  Secret  Orchard ' ;  Ooeolp. 


Tlu  ATUENASUMfw  May  11  ountaim  Artklu  on 

MORS  NOTES  fMm  a  DIARY. 

The  NBW  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY. 

An  EARLY  VOYAGE  to  JAFAS. 

DEMOSTHENES  on  the  CROWN  RE-EDITED. 

An  ITALIAN  on  the  FRENCH  REVOLUTION. 

NBW  NOVELS :>The  Heritage;  Among  the  Syringas;  The 
'         ~  ~        d  Tirlnltlet;  Clandia  Pole:  The  ( 


of  the  Court;  Tangled  ' 
Rose ;  The  Black  W^lfs  I 


AruuMDv;  M»«iu»  Mrvwoi   auv  Cardinal's 

Breed ;  Lore  the  Laggard ;  As  the  Twig  is 

Bent;  TrataU.  ^^ 

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  LITERATURE. 
OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 
The    EDWARDES    LIBRARY;     The    BARLY    ENGLISH     IVXT 
SOCIBTY :  CURDS  and  "  CROWDY  ";  The  FRASER  SALE. 


LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SClBNCE-The  North  AmeilflaM  of  Yeolerday;  Soeietleei  Moetlngt 

Next  Week ;  Goeslp. 
FINE  ARTS-The  Royal  Academy;  Teteflsaco  Slgnorlni;  The  Oiild. 

haU Catalegne i  Sales;  Gossip. 
MUSIC-Loadon  Mnsleal  FesUtal;  The  Joachim  Qnaitet;  Ubiary 

l^ble;  H.  F.  Froet;  Ooestp;  Performances  Next  Week. 

DRAMA-'Beaa  Austin';  'Maealre';   'A  Woman  U  the  Oase't 
Gossip. 


OFFICB  for  ADVBBTI8EMENT8. 
Bream's  Boildicgs,  Chancery  Lane,  E.C. 


PnbliBhed  bj  JOHN  C.  FRANCIS, 
Bresun'B  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  lb.0. 


NBWSVSNOORS'      BBNEVOLSNT     and 
PROVIDENT  INSTITUTION. 


Foads  exceed  fLOOOI. 
Offlce :  Memorial  HaU  BaUdlngs.  16,  Futingdoa  Street,  LonAen,  MXi. 


The  Right  Hon.  the  EARL  of  R06BBBBY,  K.O. 


The  Right  Hon.  the  LORD  OLBMBBX. 
Sir  W.  J.  RICHMOND  COTTON,  i.P.  (Ohamhertaia  of  Lsodoa). 


Tha  LONDON  and  WESTMINSTER  RANK,  LIMITED. 

217.  Stnnd,  W.O. 

Trustees  (Bx-ofltelo  Members  of  Oammtttee) : 

CHARLES  HENRY  WALTER.  He«. 

HORACE  BROOKS  MARSHALL.  Esq..  MJL.  I.P.  O.L. 

ALniBD  HENRY  HANOE,  Eeq.  (Ghalnsan  of  Onmmittee). 

CHARLBS  AWDRY.  Eeq.,  M.A. 

OBJECTS.— ThU  Inadtntloa  was  establishod  in  IBIi  in  the  Ctif  sf 

London,  under  the  Presidency  of  the  late  Aldensaa  Barmer.  far 

granting   Pensions  and  Temporary    Assleianee   to    prlacipals  sal 

assistants  engaged  as  Tcadors  of  newspapers. 

A  Donation  of  Ten  Guineas  coMttWtes  a  VIce-PreeMant  and  glvw 
three  tocos  for  life  at  aU  elections.    Baeh  donation  of  Thvee  Ouinesi 
gives  a  Tote  at  aU  elections  for  life.    Brerr  AnnnnI  Svbeerihsr  to 
entitled  to  ona  TOte  at  all  elections  in  respect  of  each  FItc  ShilUagt 
paid. 

niBMBERSHIP.-ETory  man  and  woosm  throughout  the  Uailid 
Kingdom,  whether  publisher,  wh<desaler,  retailer,  employer  cr  sa- 
ployed,  to  entitled  to  beeoiM  a  member  of  thto  Inatlt^en,  andsajsr 
UsbenefltsuponpajmentofFlTeShiUings  annually  or  Thrse  Ouisssi 
for  LIfO,  nroTidod  ttat  he  or  she  to  eagsged  in  the  sale  of  nowsnpscs. 

The  pcliu^  fMturea  of  the  Uules  gorening  alociion  10  att  Nailesi 
are.  that  each  candidate  shall  have  beea  (1)  a  iMmber  of  the  lastftadm 
for  not  loss  than  ten  years  preoedlag  application ;  (»  not  Ism  thm 
flfty-ATo  years  of  age;  (9)engagedinthesaleof  newspaporsfOratleM 

HiuEF.-Tempocary  reUef  to  givun  In  caaee  of  distiuos.  netssir 
to  Members  of  the  Institution,  but  to  nei 


fov  asslaiaaoe  by  Mesnbera  of  tho  I 

inoniry'tomade  u'such  eases  by  Vtoltlng  CVimsstnw  and  lOUsfli 
awarded  in  accordance  with  the  merits  aad  requtrsmsnts  of  ssifc  ww 
^ W.  WnJLIE  JONES,  Sesruaiy. 

l^HE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLB88     PAPXK-PAD. 

X    (The  LBADEMUALL  FREdS.  Ltd..  PuMlsheiu  ana  Pnalers. 
BO,  Lsadsuhsll  Street.  Lourtnu.  RO.  i 

Ooniaiat  halness'  paper,  OTCr  which  the  pea  aUps  wits  perUrt 
freedom.  Sixpence  each.  U.  per  dosea.  ruled  or  plata.  New  Tmt* 
Sise,  Sf.  per  dosea,  ruled  or  plain. 

Author*  should  note  that  The  LeadoaaaU  Prooa,  Lm..  caaaet  m 
rmponsihto  tor  the  lom  of  MiSS.  by  Are  or  otherwtoo.  DupUeaSs  etpai 
should  be  retained. 

WM.     <&     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFBB— 8U0A£— TSA. 

t04.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  W.C. 

SOH WBPPU  WATBBII  •w>I«M  0«M  MXtf  W  lllwHtl 


SCHWEPPE8  MINERAL  WATERS  an 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

^chweppes^da 

THBSlfi  WATER6  (goda.  Seltier,  PotM8»  Lithus 
Lemonade,  Tooic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  GiDf  er 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  beenoelebrated  foroveraoeotnry. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 

(  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER  ^-  ) 
<8CHWEPPES  SPABKLIMa  MALVEBM,} 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.        ) 

ScHWEPPES,  LTD.,  LOVDOV,  MaLVSBH, 
\QUMMrii«u3riBvooL,.lBi«Tou  aTOMR.  mA  muonA 


9-^b.vilmay25,i9ol]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


401 


WNDON,  SATUBDAY^  MAF  tS,  mi. 


CONTBKTS.-No»  178. 

HOTHB  t-3UKr^s  Pwtrtlt.  40l-M*aor  of  Tybom^  loa* 
ITepbui]«  *3H\  tstm^lng  the  Line  —  Mayflower  and  tbc 
NationJil  Fine,  4CM  —  ^'  Ta  joiu  i*«ufl  "  —  Jowelt'i  Lll  tie 
Girtien—  B^l tie  of  Varuji— ' '  Mftfltiey , '*  iiib—"  AJewl vce  " — 
Stock  K^icliJiUKe  Cefitenary  —  ulp^ieH  and  Loagavity  — 
*'Llft!iA  wark  well  don*^/'  -I'j^—"  Carol ,"  407. 

Q1TKIilI£S  -A  Nel&oii  Relio— DeJugOA  B»y-"SL  Hobwt'a 
rent, "  Ac.— "  Sb  u  ttks  "  —  *  *  Hab  I  *tl  n  g,^"  H>7  -  Bfiul  fo j-d 
Ti>keii— Ttie  libft  Judj£iiieitt— OcitiLiauiil  Burnt  Offering— 
Joiui  of  A.rc— ArchMftOop  Hdwky— "A  Impo  "— William 
Uaae^Truniy  by  Mr*  OliiiiLaUJue  —  MortlmL-r— Gorge 
W»U»oe— Climy  and  OlunJi:— Dutto&aud  S^amivn  Frnnillea 
— Mu-Hage  Cuttiiin  — C.  Talbot,  Printer^  10S-- Jacques 
Cnrtier's  %*()y»ge  —  BLshup'a  Head  And  Fcot— ^Book  of 
Morning  aiia  Hvenin^  Prayojf—Municin*]  Cnlnflidcrnsei— 
Baroii  dTlvlgDot;  &nd  Power— Tbuinas  Marrjat,  M.D  ,  liAh 

KB PLIBS ; -#«! U>n  HtH ie  —  H atto n'*  Mun u men t  -  Wci t- 
Goiintirymen'iTAila^Apdtitlie  Spooiuit  4lu— Oilieial  Liiis  — 
^'BuU  and  LuFrt  *' -  Hai«ly  Kumtly  —  Nelsfln'^i  D^-jilb— 
^imore  attd  Swedenborju,  lU  —  Friday  Superstition  — 
"Canoujie"— BottlM  Ale.  it  a  Invention  —  The  Barelaya 
of  Hather*  —  Florio's  *  Montatpc  *  —  '*  Thporlolite  "—Sil- 
houette* of  Children,  41^— An  Ajntricjiii  I nvanlon— Robert 
Johuaoti,  Sheriff,  4LTi— Croaae  Hall  —  KuneFftS  Cantft  — 
"P^dle  ygnr  own  Canoe/  IN  —  Joieph  Boiilmier  — 
Bnekenfidgc  —  Governof  Haynnp'fi  UrandfiLtlifir,  liS  — 
*' Kybosh  "  —  DanteJana  —  Defendcj-  of  the  Faith,  tlft- 
Vooa  de  Mer  —  Towni  wHb  Changed  BiUfn  —  "  Morning 
Glory*'— The  ■' Crown*'  behind  tbc  fioyal  Kxchange,  417 
— LuBtii  Katuras— *' Qaiat"— BnjfUBh  Farsliuony  and  the 
Gat.  418. 

HOTBS  ON  BOOKSx-Skeat'a  'Cond»e  Btymologlcat 
Dlet^onai^ '— Baddeley*i  'Aldermen  of  Crlpplegatu  ward  ' 
— •  C3a]#ndiu-  of  the  Patent  KoIIb  '— *  M^liulne '— *  L'lnior- 
mMlalre." 

lfatIc«A  to  Oorreflpondeuta. 


JOHN  STOWB  PORTRAIT,  160a 
Amok  GST  the  most  interesting  of  the  gmphic 
ill  oat  rat  ions  in  the  past  centurj's  issue  of  the 
GendernaH's  Miigazute  was  a  frood  reproduc- 
tion of  Stow'a  portrait  {vide  vol.  vii.,  N.S.,  for 
January,  1837).  The  then  editor,  the  late 
J.  G.  Nichols,  F.S.A.,  who  wrote  the  notice 
of  it^  described  this  portrait  on  copper  aa 
executed  in  exact  facsimile  of  the  unique 
original  belonging  to  T.  Rodd,  tlie  book- 
seller, prefixed  to  a  copy  of  8tow*s  *  Survey/ 
edition  of  1603.  The  latest  biographer  of 
Stow,  Mr.  Sidney  Lee  in  the  *  D.N*B,/  brietiy 
rofei^  to  this^  and  observes  :— 

^*  Beaidea  the  aoulptur^d  portrait  on  the  tomb  [in 
St-  Andrew's  Undershaft,  City],  a  contem|>oraty 
engraving  of  Stow  wag  prepared  for  his  '  ISurvcy/ 
ed.  1603,  The  original  painting  belonged  to  Ser^ 
jaant  Fleetwood  (cf.  Kannitigham,  *  Diary'),  Moat 
extant  copies  of  the  '  Sarvey'  lack  the  portrait.  It 
w  reproduced  in  the  O^nihman's  Mctfjazhte,  1837| 
i,  48.  The  inscription  on  the  engraving  entitles 
Stow  [should  be  "  Johanues  St«we  ]  *  Antiquarius 
Aogliae/  His  friend  Howes  described  him  aa  *  tall 
of  fitftture,  leane  of  body  and  face,  bis  eyea  small 
^tkd  erystalllaei  of  &  pleasant  and  eheemil  oouQ'- 
tenance/" 

Mr  Sidney  Lee  does  not  state  what  autho- 
rity there  is  for  the   conclusion  that   the 


portrait  was  prepared  expi*essly  for  the  1603 
edition  of  the  *  Survey.'  And  if  most  co}}ies 
lack  it,  where  are  the  minority  of  the  copies^ 
or  even  one  of  them,  possessing  it  ^  Nichols, 
writing  in  1637,  observes  that  the  existence 
of  a  contemporary  engraving  of  the  por- 
trait had  been  hitherto  unknown,  until  the 
recent  discovery  of  an  iinpresftion  (perhaps 
nnique)  which  was  found  pasted  to  the 
back  of  the  title  of  a  copy  of  the  *  Survey/ 
edit  1603, 

"  The  volume  is  now  in  the  poea^aBion  of  Mr.  T, 
Rodd,  the  bookseller,  of  Great  Newiiort  Street,  by 
whom  we  have  obligingly  been  [lermitted  to  u«py 
it,  a  task  which  has  oeen  executed  with  great 
tidoltiy  by  Mr.  Swainu.  t^towu  is  styled  in  th« 
circumference  *  Anlii|UaHiia  An^fUsp,'  a  character  in 
which  of  ail  bia  coijLemporaricMs  Camden  alone  can 
be  ranked  lief  one  him.  The  twrtrait  represenU 
him,  as  does  the  effigy,  quite  in  hia  old  age  ;  yet  his 
features  scarcely  api>ear  to  bear  the  weight  of 
seventy-seven  years.  His  temperate  and  cheerful 
dt£syosition,  which  is  on  record,  appears^  not- 
withstanding his  misfortunes  and  poverty,  to  have 
maintained  a  hale  ooiiatitution  to  an  advanced 
period  of  life." 

Sir  Henry  Ellis  seeras  to  have  taken  the 
same  view.  His  letter  to  Nichols,  31  Dec., 
18J6»  is  now  before  me.    In  it  he  says  ;^ 

**  1  am  much  plea^ned  to  see  the  new  porti^it  of  old 
Stowe  in  the  new  Month^s  Magazine,  will  you 
allow  me  to  beg  two»  each,  of  the  Portrait  and  the 
Memoir,  if  they  can  bo  spared,  For  the  age  of  77 
he  looks  pretty  chubby,'* 

Bolton  Corney  also  wrote  to  NichoU  in 
nirailarly  appreciative  terms,  and  noticed  the 
facsimile  or  this  hitherto  unrecorded  portrait 
in  Article  vii.  p.  41  of  his  *  New  Curiosities 
of  Literature.*  There  is  fortunately  no  mis- 
take about  the  age  of  Stow  when  the  portrait 
was  epgraved^  as  it  has  at  foot  the  words 
;*i^2tatissuie77,  1603,"  It  is  regrettable  that 
it  is  without  the  engraver's  name  or  mono- 
gram. It  certainly  gives  the  impresaion  of 
a  man  who  ha^  risen  superior  to  all  his  trials, 
and  of  whom  it  may  be  said,  '^Jactatus 
multum,  sed  nan  fractus  ab  annis/' 

But  there  remains  something  more  to 
mention.  When  J.  G,  Nicholfi's  papers,  ifcc, 
wore  sold,  amongst  the  selection  that  came 
to  the  present  writer's  hands  was  a  second 
origin  at  impression  of  the  portraiti  with  the 
following  letter  from  Dr,  Dalton  :— 

Dunkirk  Houis;  near  Kallawfyith, 
i*ttJune,  IMI. 
My  DEAR  yiR,— Having  now  returned  home  from 
London,  I  have  the  pleasure  of  sending  for  your 
acceptance  the  ancient  engraving  of  Ktowe  which  a 
writer  in  the  Gtitf.  Ma{/,  be  lie  v^  to  be  unique.  I 
feared  injuring  it  by  endeavouring  to  detach  it  from 
the  By-le^f  of  Btowe's  *  Chronicle'  in  black  letter, 
13013,  Somali  quarto,  and  therefore  you  will  receive  vt 
as  originally  plac^^    1  ft\\^\W\ik\«ix«i^RASiiVT!iss^- 


402 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     p*  &  vn.  mat  2m«l 


Idk  that  it  forms  an  acceptable  additioii  to  your 

couectioti,  remaining,  my  dear  Sir, 

Yours  very  trulyp 

EdWU,  U ALTON. 

To  John  Gough  Nioholfl,  Ks^y 
Obeerve,  the  engmviBg  was  not  f>ebsted  in 
Stow'a  'Survey/ like  Rodd*a  irapreaaion  of  it, 
but  in  the  1603 edition  of  Stow*8  'Chronicles/ 
Mr.  Nichols  removed  it  from  the  fly- leaf » 
pasted  it  on  half  a  sheet  of  paper,  ancf  wrote 
the  following  note  at  foot ;— - 

'*Tho  same  print  which  from  another  copy  (aup' 
posed  uniiiue)  was  enyrftved  in  the  Oentfeman^H 
Mtigaune  for  1S37  (J  an  .J*  This  was  tHven  me  by 
Edward  Dalton,  LL,D.,  F.S.A.,  in  June,  IML" 

With  such  »  record  as  is  above  sketched^ 
the  print  is  probably  about  as  rare  an  item 
as  the  most  ardent  grange  rite  could  well 
desire.  Fbkdk,  Hendbikb, 

KouBinglon, 

THE  MANOR  OF  TYBURN, 
[Co^vclud^d  from  p.  383.) 
Earl  Rojiert  died  in  1295,*  and  his  widow 
Alice  survived  him  for  several  years.  Her 
Inquisition  p.m.,  which  shows  that  she  was 
seised  of  the  manor  of  Tyburn  at  the  time 
of  her  death,  is  dated  6  Edward  IL  {1312). 
She  was  succeeded  in  the  group  of  San  ford 
manors  by  her  grandson,  John  de  Warren, 
Earl  of  Surrey,  Sussex,  and  ytrathem,  who 
died  without  issue  in  1347  (Inquisition  p,ni«). 
Probably^  during  his  minority,  the  manoi^ 
were  sublet  to  Ralph  de  Cobham,  as  he 
died  seised  of  them  in  1325  (Inquisition  p.m., 
19  Edward  II.).  John  de  Warren  was  suc- 
ceeded in  these  manors  by  his  nephew  Riclvird 
Fitzalan,  third  Earl  of  Arundel  of  that  family, 
son  of  Edmund  Fitzalan  and  Alice  de  Warren, 
the  only  sister  of  the  Earl  of  Surrey.  Richard, 
Earl  of  Arundeif  died  in  1376,  and  was  suc- 
ceeded by  his  son  Richard,  who  after  a 
stormy  career  was  most  unjustly  beh^ded 
in  1397,  By  his  first  wife  Elizabeth  Bohun, 
daughtei  of  William,  Earl  of  Nortfiampton, 
he  left  a  s  m,  Thomas,  who  succeeded  him 
eventually  in  his  title  and  estates,  and  four 
daughters,  Thoma-s  Fitzalan^  fifth  Earl  of 
ArundeL  died  without  i^sue  in  1415  ;  and 
whilst  the  castle  of  Arundel  and  the  prin- 
cipal pos'ises^ions  of  his  famUy  went  to  his 
cousin,  John  Fitzaian,  Lord  Malt  ravers,  the 
group  of  Sanford  manors  waa  partitioned 
among  his  sisters  and  coheiresses,  and  the 
difficulties  in  tracing  the  succession  really 
b^gin.  Mr.  Ijoftie  says  the  subsequent 
history  of  the  **  lease  "  is  detailed  by  Lysons. 


*  The  armi  of  t.he  «arl,  impaled  with  those  of 
San  ford,  are  on  windows  id  the  nave  and  the  south 
w&Ii  of  the  cbaQcel  of  L&ngley  Church,  li(^rlo\Y, 


Lysons  gives  no  details  whatever  between 

the  death  of  the  Earl  of  Arundel  in  1397— 
misdated  by  him  1394— and  the  creation  in 
1488  of  the  Marquis  of  Berkeley,  whom  he  also 
erroneously  states  to  have  been  descended 
from  Joan   Fit^alan,  one  of  the  sisters   in 
question*     Of   these   sisters,   the    j^oungest^ 
Alice,  married  John  Chat Je ton.  Lord  of  Powis, 
who  died  without  issue  in  1400.     The  eldest 
sister,  ElLstabeth  Fit^ealan,  married   first  Sir 
William   Montacute,  eldest  son  of  WiUiam 
Montacute,  second  Earl  of  Salisbury,  who 
was  unhappily  slain  in  a  tUting   match  at 
Windsor  by  the  ^rlj  his  father,  on  6  August, 
1382,  and   left  no  issue;  secondly,  Thomas 
Mowbray,  Earl  of  Nottingham  and  Duke  of 
Norfolk^  who  died  on  22  September,   1389, 
leaving  issue  ;  thirdly,  Sir  Gerard  de  Ufflete  ; 
and  fourthly.  Sir  Rooert  Gowghillt  who  left 
issue.    Elizabeth   Fitzulan  died  on  8  July, 
1425^  and  her  share  of  the  Sanford  manors 
was  divided  between  her  surviving  descend- 
ants.    The   second    sister,    Joan    Fitzalan, 
married  William  Beauchamp,  Lord  of  Ber- 
pavenny,  who  died   8    May,    1411,    leaving 
issue.    The  third  sister,  Margaret  FitzaJao, 
married  Sir  Rowland  Lenthall,  of  Hampton 
Court,  CO.  Hereford,  and  also  had  issue.    It 
will  thus  be  seen  that  as  the  three  surviving 
sisters  of  Thomas  Fitzalan  were  each  entitled 
to  a  third  share  of  the  manors,  one-sixth  fell 
to  the  Mow  brays,  one-sixth  to  the  Gowshills* 
one- third  to  the  Beauchampe^  and  one  third 
to  the  Lenthalls. 

The   eldest   son   of   Tbomai,   first   Duke 
of  Norfolk,  having  been  beheaded  in  140S  it 
the  earl^^  age  of  nineteen,   the  in  heritages 
fell  to  his  brother,  John  Mowbray,  second 
Duke  of   Norfolk,  who  died    in   1432.    Al- 
though  he  was  succeeded  in  his  honours  bf 
his  son  John,  third  Duke  of  Norfolk,  a  thim 
share  of  the  Sanford  manors  appears  to  hAve 
fallen  to  a  daughter,  Margaret^  the  wife  d 
Norman  Babington  (Inq.  p.m.,  1451 ;  see  the 
Topofirapher  and   GenealogiM^  L  340X    After 
this  lady^s  death    her  share  of  the  manors 
seems  to  have  reverted  to  her  brother,  the 
Buke  of  Norfolk,  and  to  have  been  inherited 
by  his  son  John,  the  fourth  duke,  who  difld 
in  147&,  leaving  one  daughter  and  sole  heifi 
Anne    Mowbray.      With    the    intention  d 
acquiring  the  vast  posseasiona  of  the  Mo*- 
brays.   King  Edward   IV.,  when  this  hide 
lady  was  hardly  six  years  of  age,  betrothed 
her  to  his  second  son,  Richard^  Duke  of  York ; 
but  she  unfortunately  died  soon  after wartla, 
and  the  duke  being  murdered  in  the  To*er. 
the  familv  estates    became    the   objects  m 
partition  ^tween  the  coheir^  John  Qowaid, 
L  th^  ^n  of  Sir  Bobert  Ho  ward  and  MitfHfll 


9»s.yn.MAT2s,iMi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


403 


Mowbray,  elder  daughter  of  the  first  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  and  William  Berkeley,  the  son  of 
James,  Baron  Berkeley,  and  Isabel  Mowbray, 
the  Younger  daughter  of  the  same  nobleman. 
Eacn  of  these  ladies  therefore  became  en- 
titled in  1483  to  one-sixth  of  the  Sanford 
manors.  8ir  Robert  GowshiU,  of  Havering- 
ham,  Notts,  and  Elizabeth  Fitzalan,  had  left 
a  daughter  and  heiress,  Johanna,  who  married 
Thomas,  Lord  Stanley ;  and  his  son  Thomas, 
first  £arl  of  Derby,  oecame  also  entitled  to 
a  sixth  share  of  the  manors.  Sir  Rowland 
Lenthall's  descendants  had  apparently  lapsed 
with  his  son  Edmund,  who  died  without 
issue,  and  the  Lenthall  share  was  therefore 
divisible  among  the  other  coheirs.  The 
remaining  third  of  the  manors  was  inherited 
by  Elizabeth  Beauchamp,  daughter  and 
heiress  of  Richard  Beauchamp,  Earl  of  Wor- 
cester (killed  in  1422),  the  son  of  William 
Beauchamp,  Lord  of  bergayenny,  and  Joan 
Fitzalan.  Elizabeth  Beauchamp  married 
Edward  Nevill,  who  was  summoned  to  Par- 
liament as  Loiti  of  Bergayenny,  and  died  in 
1476.  He  was  succeeded  by  his  son  George, 
from  whom  the  present  Marquis  of  Aber- 
gavenny is  descended.  To  resume.  When 
the  Tudors  ascended  the  throne  one-third  of 
the  manor  of  Tyburn  belonged  to  George 
Nevill,  Lord  Bergavenny ;  one-sixth  to  John 
Howard,  Duke  of  Norfolk ;  one-sixth  to 
William,  Marquis  Berkeley ;  and  one-sixth 
to  Thomas  Stanley,  Earl  of  Derby.  I  have 
traced  the  descent  of  this  manor  at  some 
length,  because,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  it  has 
never  been  done  before,  and  certainly  not 
by  Lysons.* 
It   is  a  little  difficult    to   say    how    the 

F resent  manor  of  Marylebone  was  formed, 
have  an  impression  that  originally  only 
that  portion  oi  the  manor  of  Tyburn  which 
fell  to  the  share  of  the  Mowbrays  was  so 
named,  for  in  the  Inquisition  p.m.  of  John, 
third  Duke  of  Norfolk  (1  Edward  IV.,  1461), 
he  and  his  wife  Alianora,  who  was  daughter 
of  William,  Baron  Bourchier,  and  grand- 
daughter of  Thomas  of  Woodstock,  Duke  of 
Gloucester,  are  said  to  have  been  seised  of 
the  manor  of  Tyborne  aVs  Marybone.  This 
is  the  earliest  mention  of  Marylebone  that  I 
have  been  able  to  trace.  Robert  Still ington. 
Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  who  was  high  in 
favour  with  Edward  IV.,  but  who  took  tne 

*  With  reference  to  the  Inquisition  p.m.  of 
WiUiaim  Emx,  20  Edward  IV.,  1480,  1  think  Mr. 
RuTTON  will  find  on  inspection  that  while  Essex 
held  the  manor  of  "  Westowne  in  Midd',"  he  was 
in  possession  of  lands  only  in  '^Kynsyngton,  Bromp- 
too,  Chelcheth,  Tybnme,  and  Westoume."  He 
did  not  own  tboee  nuuiore  (see  anie,  p.  311), 


wrong  side  in  the  time  of  that  monarch's 
successor,  and  was  imprisoned  in  consequence 
by  Henry  VII.,  seems  to  have  acquired  the 
manor  from  the  Berkeleys.  This  was  trans- 
ferred by  his  nephew  and  heir,  Thomas 
Stillington,  to  Sir  Reginald  Bray  (*  Feet  of 
Fines  for  London  and  Middlesex,'  ed.  Hardy 
and  Page,  ii.  5),  under  the  appellation  of  the 
"Manor  of  Mary  bourne,"  which  seems  to 
have  included  premises  in  Tyburn,  Lileston. 
Wdstbourn.  Charing,  and  Eye.  Sir  Reginala 
Bray  sold  the  manor  to  Thomas  Hobson, 
gent.,  who  also  acquired  in  1503  the  shares 
of  Lord  Bergavenny,  the  Earl  of  Derby,  and 
the  Earl  of  Surrey  (the  dukedom  of  Norfolk 
being  then  under  attainderX  and  thus  became 
possessed  of  the  whole  of  the  old  manor  of 
Tvburn.  It  remained  in  the  hands  of  the 
Hobson  family  until  1544,  when  it  was  ex- 
changed with  King  Henry  VIII.  for  some 
other  lands.  It  is  unnecessary  to  pursue  the 
history  of  the  manor  further,  but  it  may  be 
as  well  to  state  that  there  is  no  evidence 
that  the  boundaries  of  the  manor  granted 
by  King  James  I.  in  1611  to  Edward  Forset 
corresponded  in  every  particular  with  the 
boundaries  of  the  old  manor  of  Tyburn  We 
know,  for  instance,  that  the .  space  which 
had  been  formed  into  Marybone  Park  was 
excluded,  and  it  is  possible  that  the  lands 
situated  in  Paddington  which  were  included 
in  the  manor  were  among  those  granted  to 
the  See  of  London  by  Edward  VI.  in  1551. 

It  is  generally  considered  that  the  site  of 
the  old  church  of  Tyburn,  which  in  the 
'  Taxatio  Ecclesiastica '  of  Pope  Nicholas  IV., 
circa  1291,  was  valued  at  62.  annually,  was 
on  or  near  the  present  court-house  in  Mary- 
lebone Lane,  the  only  ground  for  this  opinion 
being  a  statement  by  Maitland  that  a  number 
of  human  bones  were  dug  up  while  the  founda- 
tions of  the  old  court-house  were  being  pre- 
pared in  1727.  Some  more  bones  seem  to 
nave  been  discovered  when  the  present 
courthouse  was  being  built  in  1822,  and 
this  is  sufficient  for  Thomas  Smith  to 
declare  that  the  old  cemetery,  which  hypo- 
thetically  adjoined  the  church,  must  have 
occupied  this  site  ('  Account  of  Marylebone,' 
p.  60).  A  writer  in  the  City  Press  has 
recently  pointed  out  that  it  is  very  difficult  to 
excavate  anywhere  in  London  without  finding 
human  bones,  and  the  presence  of  bones  in 
Marylebone  goes  a  very  little  wa^  to  prove 
the  existence  of  a  churcn.  Applying  the  test 
of  common  sense  to  the  (question,  we  find  that 
Oxford  Street  was  anciently  called  Tyburn 
Road ;  that  Park  Iassa  ^^a  <a5^w\  ^\ss«\sl 
Lane ;  that,  1y\>\xm  \.\xTxi\fC»L%  %X«A  ^v.  ^^ 
southern  end  ol  t\i^  ^EA^-^^t^  w»o^\  'C^^sv. 


404 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,      [o*  8.  va  may  25,  iwi. 


as  Mr.  Rutton  has  pointed  out,  the  north- 
eavst  corner  of  Hyde  Park  was,  two  hundred 
and  fifty  years  ago,  called  Tyburn  Meadow ; 
that  St.  George's  Burying-Ground  was  estab- 
lished at  the  west  ena  of  Tyburn  Field ; 
and  that  finally  Bayard's  Watering  Place, 
the  modern  Bayswater,  was  declared  by  an 
eighteenth  -  century  Act  of  Parliament  to 
be  "  parcel  of  the  Manor  of  Tyburn." 
The  conclusion  irresistibly  forces  itself,  at 
any  rate  on  my  mind,  that  the  nucleus 
of  the  manor  was  situated  near  the  Marble 
Arch.  I  cannot  accept  the  argument  that 
the  name  "Tyburn"  was  a  movable  one, 
which  was  bestowed  on  whatever  site  the 
gallows  occupied.  When  the  "fatal  tree" 
was  removed  from  Smithfield,  that  name,  a 
much  more  common  one  than  Tyburn,  did 
not  follow  it  in  its  wanderings.  It  seems  to 
me,  with  deference  to  many  learned  and 
able  topographers,  that  a  readiness  to  adopt 
the  often  baseless  theories  of  our  predecessors 
is  simply  due  to  a  disinclination  to  hunt  out 
facts  tor  ourselves. 

In  conclusion,  I  will  only  advert  to  one 
more  point  in  Mr.  Loptie's  paper,  in  which  I 
regret  to  find  myself  at  issue  with  that  gentle- 
man. Mr.  Loftie  says,  "Tyburn,  at  the 
time  of  the  Domesday  Survey,  was  a  manor 
which  extended  from  Rugmere,  now  Blooms- 
bury,  westward  to  the  orook  of  Tyburn." 
Putting  aside  the  fact  that  Domesaay  no- 
where defines  the  boundaries  of  Tyburn 
manor,  I  would  ask  Mr.  Loftie  on  what 
evidence  he  identifies  Rugmere  with  Blooms- 
bury.  Rugmere,  to  begin  with,  was  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Pancras,  while  Bloomsbury  was 
m  that  of  St.  Giles  of  the  Lepers.  I  would 
venture  to  invite  the  attention  of  Mr.  Loftie 
to  a  noto  on  'The  Prebendal  Manor  of 
Rugmere '  which  I  contributed  to  St  Pancras 
Notes  and  Queries  for  2  March,  1900.  From 
certain  datfL  which  chiefly  consisted  in  the 
survival  of  the  name  in  comparatively  recent 
times,  I  made  the  deduction  that  the  old 
manor  of  Rugmere  occupied  that  portion  of 
the  parish  of  St.  Pancras  which  lies  between 
the  Doundary  of  the  parish  of  St.  Maryle- 
bone  on  the  west,  the  Hampstead  Road  and 
High  Street,  Camden  Town,  on  the  east,  the 
old  highway  between  Paddington  and  Isling- 
ton on  the  south,  and  the  Chalk  Farm 
boundary  of  Hampstead  parish  on  the  north. 
As  we  learn  from  Domesdfay  that  it  possessed 
"nemus  ad  sepes,"  it  was  probably  an  out- 
Ijring  portion  of  the  great  forest  of  Middlesex. 
W.  F.  Prideaux. 


sea  known  as  the  visit  of  Neptune,  and  the 
disagreeable  adjunct  of  "shaving"  by  the 
sailors  practised  (unless  a  fine  be  paid  as 
commutation)  upon  those  who  have  never 
crossed  the  line,  took  place  at  the  equator, 
and  this  is  confirmed  by  the  recent  account 
of  the  visit  to  the  Ophir  when  passing  from 
the  northern  into  the  southern  hemisphera  I 
was  therefore  surprised  to  read,  in  a  'Journal 
of  a  Tour  in  Unsettled  Parts  of  North  America 
in  1796  and  1797,'  by  Francis  Baily  (the  "  Philo- 
sopher of  Newbury,"  who  in  later  life  greatly 
distinguished    himself  in  astronomy),  pulh 
lished  in  1856,  long  after  the  author's  death 
in  1844,  that  the  ceremony  seems  formerly  to 
have  been  carried  out  on  entering  the  torrid 
zone.    Baily  (then  in  the  twenty-second  year 
of  his  age)  started  on  his  voyage  on  21  October, 
1795,  intending  to  land  at  New  York,  but  in 
consequence  of  a  tremendous  gale  as  the  ship 
was  approaching  the  American  coast^  tbej 
were  driven  out  to  sea,  and,  after  failing  to 
land  on  the  Bermudas,  had  at  last  (the  ship 
being  almost  a  wreck)  to  make  for  the  West 
Indies,  arid  succeeded  in   reaching  Antigua 
on  27  December,  where  Baily  remained  until 
24  January,  1796,  and,  after  a  more  prosperons 
voyage  than  his  first,  arrived  at  Norfolk,  on 
the  coast  of  Virginia,  on  the  14th  of  the 
following   month.     It  was  on  the  way  to 
Antigua  that   they  crossi^    the   tropic  of 
Cancer  on  Christmas  Day,  1795;  and  '*here 
it  was,"  says  Baily  (p.  84X 
'*  that  Old  Neptune,  as  is  usual  in  such  cases,  cum 
aboard  and  demanded  a  sight  of  those  who  had  not 
entered  the  sanctum  sanctorum  before.    We  were 
accordingly  all  drawn  up,  and  he  soon  signalized 
those  who  had  never  yet  crossed  the  line,  and, 
having  exacted  his  fine,  departed.    In  case  of  non- 
compliance we  should  have  been  punished  agreeably 
to  the  manner  prescribed  in  such  cases,  and  vhich 
is  called  shaving :  it  is  this :  the  sailors  place  yon 
on  a  stick  over  a  large  tub  of  water,  and,  at  a 
signal  eiven,  the  stick  is  knocked  from  under,  and 
you  fall  backwards  into  the  tub  over  your  need 
and  ears  in  water ;  when  you  raise  your  head  it  U 
immediately  smeared  over  with  pitch  and  tar  and 
all  the  filth  they  can  gather  about  the  ship,  and  if 
they  can  introduce  any  into  your  mouth,  they  will 
be  so  much  the  more  satisfied  and  delighted." 

It  will  be  noticed  that  in  the  above  quotation 
Baily  calls  the  tropic  of  Cancer  "the  line," 
which  I  believe  in  nautical  language  now 
always  signifies  the  equator.  I  should  like 
to  know  when  the  '* shaving"  was  transferred 
from  one  locality  to  the  other. 

W.  T.  Lykk. 

The  Matflowbb  and  thx  National  Fuo. 
—It  having  been  stated  that  the  Mayfiower 
is  represented  in  the  freaoo  in  the  Lotdi* 


Neptune  and  crossing  the  Luste.— IYvvjA  wctSaw  W^^\>.^^^bfiQ's  as  flying  ihe  pment 
Always  understood  that  the  quaint  cx&&U>m  «b\.\\uivsti  ^^^  \  Vvwi  t^c^m^K^  "0:^  ^  «m  i  and 


9*  8.  vn.  Mat  25. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


406 


thoagh  the  coloars  are  faint  and  it  is  not 
easy  to  be  sure.  I  fancy  that  the  paragraph- 
mongers  have  Tound  a  mare's  nest  D. 

"To  JOIN  ISSUE."  (See  4"»  S.  ix.  14, 128.)— 
The  '  N.E.D.;  v.  513,  col.  2,  has  given  three 
instances  of  the  erroneous  use  of  this  phrase 
in  the  sense  of  coming  to  an  agreement.  In 
law  the  {Mirties  join  issue  when  they  arrive 
at  the  i)oint  where  they  begin  to  differ.  It 
is  astonishing  to  find  how  widespread  is  the 
error,  even  among  writers  who  had  some 
legal  knowledge.  Shakespeare,  in  'Corio- 
lanus,'  IV.  iv.,  says  "fellest  foes  " 

shall  grow  dear  friends, 
And  interjoin  their  issues. 

3ut  this  may  mean  "intermarry."  Sheridan, 
in  the  '  School  for  Scandal,'  II.  ii.,  describing 
a  ladv's  face,  writes,  "Her  nose  and  chin 
are  the  only  parties  likely  to  join  issue." 
Southey,  in  his  *  Life  of  Wesley '  (1858,  ii. 
162X  states  that  the  founder  of  Methodism 
justified  his  irregularity  by  an  appeal  to  the 
Scriptures,  and  "in  this  position  he  joined 
issue  with  the  wildest  religious  anarchists." 
Napier,  in  his  *  Peninsula  War,'  vi.  33 
(book  xxiii.  ch.  v.),  alluding  to  Napoleon's 
consenting  to  negotiations  for  peace,  says, 
"He  joined  issue  with  them  to  satisfy  the 
Frencn  people."  Dickens,  in  *  Edwin  Drood,' 
1870,  p.  78,  when  Edwin  agrees  to  dine  with 
Mr.  Orewgious,  makes  th  xt  gentleman  reply, 
"You  are  very  kind  to  join  issue  with  a 
bachelor  in  chambers."  W.  0.  B. 

Jowett's  Littlk  Garden.— I  had  always 
understood  that  the  well-known  lines — 
A  little  garden  little  Jowett  made, 
And  fenc'd  it  with  a  little  palisade : 
If  ^ou  would  know  the  taste  of  little  Jowett, 
This  little  garden  won't  a  little  show  it, 

were  applied,  in  the  above  or  some  similar 
form,  to  the  late  Master  of  Balliol.  In  turn- 
ing over  the  second  volume  of  the  Satirist^ 
June,  1808,  I  find  these  lines  attributed  to 
Dr.  W.  L  Mansel,  Master  of  Trinity 
College,  Cambridge,  and  applied  to  Dr. 
Joseph  Jowett,  of  Trinity  Hall.  Very  likely 
the  epigram  appeared  in  print  before  the 
Satirut  published  it.  W.  Roberts. 

47,  Lansdowne  Gardens,  S.  W. 

The  Battle  of  Varna  and  the  Papal 
Fleet.— On  p.  145  of  vol.  vii.  of  the  new 
edition  of  Gibbon's  *  Decline  and  Fall  of 
the  Roman  Empire'  we  find  the  following 
passage:— 

"  It  was  on  this  fatal  spot  f  Varna]  that,  instead 
of  finding  a  confederate  fleet  to  second  their  [the 
Oatholicr]  operations,  they  were  alarmed  by  the 
I4»proaoh  of  Ammth  himaelf,  who  had  issued  from 


his  Magnesian  solitude  and  transxwrted  the  forces 
of  Asia  to  the  defence  of  Earope.  According  to 
some  writers,  the  Greek  emperor  had  been  awed, 
or  seduced,  to  grant  the  passage  of  the  Bosphorus ; 
and  an  indelible  stain  of  corruption  is  fixed  on  the 
Genoese,  or  the  Pope's  nephew,  the  Catholic  admiral, 
whose  mercenarv  connivance  betrayed  the  guard  ot 
the  Hellespont.*'^ 

The  editor's  (Prof.  Bury's)  comment  on  this 
passage  is  :— 

**It  is  difficult  to  understand  what  the  Papal 
fleet  was  doing.  The  place  where  Murad  crossed 
is  uncertain.  The  Turkish  sources  differ ;  they 
agree  only  that  he  did  not  cross  at  Gallipoli.  Cf. 
Thiiry's  note,  op.  cit,,  p.  21." 

The  professor  has  evidently  not  read  Wale- 
ran  de  Wavrin's  account  of  the  battle  between 
the  Christian  galleys  and  the  Turkish  forces 
when  crossing  the  Bosphorus,  in  which  the 
writer  was  in  command  of  the  united  Bur- 
sundian^  Ragusan  (Hungarian),  and  Greek 

fleet,"  if  an  assembly  of  six  galleys  may  be 
honoured  by  that  name.  The  Pope  s  nephew. 
Cardinal  Francesco  Contarini,  on  the  other 
hand,  was  in  command  of  the  galleys,  about 
fifteen  in  number  (eight  Papal,  five  Venetian, 
and  two  Burgundian),  which  were  yarding 
the  Hellespont  (cf.  *  Szazadok,'  xxviii.  686). 

There  cannot  be  the  slightest  doubt  that 
Amurath,  helped  by  the  Genoese  of  Pera, 
seconded  by  the  troops  of  Rumili  under 
Khalil  Pasha,  and  favoured  also  by  a  furious 
fi»le  blowing  from  the  Black  Sea,  crossed  the 
Bosphorus  at  the  place  called  by  the  Turks 
"The  Devil's  Rapids,"  where  then  already 
stood  the  castle  Anatoli  Hissar  on  the  Asiatic 
shore,  and  where  Mohammed  Sultan  sub- 
sequently (in  1451)  built  the  Rumili  Hissar 
opposite  on  the  £urox)ean  side.  This  is  the 
version  of  the  event  adopted  by  Hungarian 
historians,  including  Bishop  Frakn6i  in 
vol.  iv.  of  the  "  Millennium  Edition "  of 
Magyar  history  recently  published.  Wale- 
ran^  account  is  fully  V^-"*^  ^"*-  ^"  ^*-u«« 
contemporary  evidence. 


ran^  account  is  fully   oorne  out  by  other 

L.  L.  K. 


'*  Maguey."— The  ori^n  of  this  important 
and  well-known  botanical  term  has  been 
variously  asserted  to  be  (1)  Cuban,  (2)  Mexi- 
can. For  the  Cuban  etymology  there  is  good 
old  authority  (Oviedo,  1535),  confirmed  by  the 
existence  of  other  Cuban  ootanical  names  of 
like  termination,  copev  (Clusia  alba\  mamei/ 
(Mammea  ameriaina)^  ac.  ^  On  the  other  hand, 
all  modern  dictionaries,  including  the  '  Cen- 
tury Dictionary,'  allege  the  word  to  be 
Mexican.  In  the  first  volume  of  the  *Historv 
of  the  New  World  called  America,'  by  E.  J. 
Payne  (reviewed  8"»  S.  ii.  199^  ^.  ^T^^i^  ^x^ 
given  tne  choice  ci  Xrwo'^^xARaax  ^\*^\!m5^<»b«»»> 
one  from  tYve  ^W^  tnohueiy  w  twJ^r^w{\s^  ^w\.- 


406 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9«»8.vilmat25,i9ol 


derful  tree,  the  other  from  the  Otomi  ma  gue^ 
flesh.  My  obiection  to  these  suggestions  is 
that  each  of  tne  dialects  already  possessed  a 
name  for  the  plant,  the  Aztecs  calling  it  meil^ 
while  the  Otomi  term  was  na  guada^  so  that 
it  seems  unlikely  either  of  them  would  coin 
a  second.  The  notion  that  the  word  is  Mexi- 
can must  have  been  based,  I  fancy,  upon  the 
statement  of  Dr.  Francisco  Hernandez  in  his 
*  Cuatro  Libros  de  la  Naturaleza,'  1615, 
reprinted  1888,  p.  216 :  "  La  planta  llamada 
metl  es  la  que  los  Mexicanos  llaman  maguejf,^* 
Marcerave  also,  in  his  *  Hist.  Nat.  Brasilise,' 
editea  by  De  Laet,  1648,  p.  88,  refers  to 
^  MeU  qu8B  Mexicanis  dicitur  magueyj*  De 
Laet  himself,  however,  in  his  *Nouveau 
Monde,'  1640,  p.  139,  speaks  of  "  Le  maguey 
dit  des  Mexiquains  witfw,"  just  the  reverse  of 
the  preceding.  It  is  noteworthy  that  both 
Hernandez  and  Marcgrave  oppose  the  Aztec 
meU  to  the  Mexican  maguey,  I  am  therefore 
inclined  to  think  they  intended  "  Mexican  " 
in  the  sense  of  "  Spanish,"  which  would  solve 
all  difficulties.  My  present  impression  is, 
then,  that  this  hitherto  unexplained  word  was 
very  early  caught  up  by  the  Spaniards  in  the 
West  Indies,  and  naturalized  in  Mexico. 

Jas.  Platt,  Jun. 

"  ALEWiVES."--In  a  case  I  recently  had  to 
try  here  some  part  of  the  subject-matter  in 
dispute  consisted  of  a  considerable  number 
of  barrels  of  ''alewives,"  known  here  as 
"shads,"  or  a  large  kind  of  herring,  which 
were  in  pickle.  They  were  consigned  from 
Nova  Scotia,  so  the  term  no  doubt  comes 
from  that  colony.  I  am  sorry  that  I  have 
not  my  General  Indexes  to  '  N.  &  Q.'  here 
with  me,  so  that  I  might  see  whether  this 
term  in  connexion  with  the  fishing — or  rather 


for  business  purposes  at  New  Jonathan's 
in  Sweeting  Alley,  and  the  place  was  called 
'*The  Stock  Exchange "— *^which  is  to  be 
wrote  over  the  door."  The  brokers,  however, 
determined  to  have  a  building  of  their  own, 
and  on  the  18th  of  May,  1801,  Mr.  William 
Hammond,  the  chairman  of  the  then  Ck>m- 
raittee  of  Management,  laid  the  foundation 
Htone  of  the  Excnange  which  has  since  been 
m  considerably  extended.  The  Daily  Tde- 
ifraph  mentions  the  curious  fcLCt  that  the 
Htone  was  lost  during  the  rebuilding  in  185^-4, 
and  when  it  was  discovered  in  1883  it  was 
found  to  contain  a  plate  with  the  subjoined 
inscription  : — 

*'  On  May  18,  in  the  year  1801,  and  41  of  George  III, 
the  first  stone  of  this  building,  erected  by  |)rivate 
Bubscription,  for  transaction  of  busineBs  in  tbe 
public  lands,  was  laid  in  the  presence  of  thepro- 
prietors,  and  under  the  direction  of  William  Ham- 
mond, William  Steer,  Thomas  Roberts,  Griffith 
Jones,  William  Grev,  Isaac  Hensley,  Jo.  Brackshaw. 
■John  Capel,  and  John  Barnes,  mana^rs;  James 
Peacock,  architect.  At  this  sera,  the  first  of  the 
union  between  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  the 
tmblic  funded  debt  had  accumulated  in  five  sucoes- 
»ive  reigfns  to  552,730,924/.  The  inviolate  faith  of 
the  British  nation,  and  the  principles  of  the  consti- 


tution, sanction  and  secure  the  pro^rty  embarked 
in  this  undertaking.    May  the  blessing  of   * 
stitution  be  secured  to  the  latest  posterity.' 


The  building  was  opened  for  business  in 
March,  1802,  the  subscription  being  then  ten 
guineas,  payable  annually.  The  members 
Uien  nunibered  500.  The  present  number  is 
given  as  4,673,  each  paying  40/.  per  annum. 
Among  notable  visitors  have  been  the  Prince 
of  Wales  in  1885,  the  Duke  of  York  in  1887. 
and  Lord  Kitchener  after  the  taking  of 
Khartoum.  A.  N.  Q. 

Gipsies  and  Longevity.  —  The  Brighton 


fish-trade  has  been  notic^  ^^?J^-    J*®J^*P^  ;  fferald  of  the  18th  of  May  states  that  Sammy 

father  of  Gipsy  Lee,  the  famous  fortune-teller 
at  the  Devirs  Dyke,  has  just  died  at  the  ace  of 
103,  having  been  born  in  1798.   He  claimea  the 


some  correspondent  of  *  N.  <fc  Q.'  can  throw 
light  upon  tne  term.  J.  S.  Udal. 

Antigua,  W.I. 

[The  'H.E.D.'  describes  the  alewife  as  *'an 
American  fish  (Clupea  serrata)  closely  allied  to  the 
herring."  Of  the  etymology  it  says:  "Corrupted 
from  17th  c.  aloofe ;  taken  d^  some  to  be  an  Ame- 
rican Indian  name;  according  to  others  a  literal 
error  for  l^r.  alose^  a  shad.  Further  investigation 
is  required."] 

Stock  Exchange  Centenaby.— On  Satur- 
day last  the  members  of  the  Stock  Exchange 
made  holiday  to  celebrate  the  centenarv  of 
the  laying  of  the  foundation  stone  of  tneir 
first  building.  The  exchange  of  stocks  in 
London  commenced  more  than  two  centuries 
back,  the  business  being  then  conducted  in 
tbe  open  ear.  A  writer  in  the  Daily  Graphic 
states  that  the  name  "Stock  Excbaiigft'*  ^«a^^ 


distinction,  of  which  he  was  very  proud,  of 
being  a  thoroughbred  gipsy,  a  real  '^  Romany 
cheAr  He  leaves  a  sister  who  is  102  years  of 
age.  It  would  be  interesting  if  Mr.  Theodore 
Watts-Dunton,  or  some  other  authority  on 
gipsy  folk-lore,  could  inform  us  whether 
gipsies  generally  live  to  a  great  age,  and  what 
constitutes  a  "  gipsy  king?  N.  S.  S. 

"Life's  work  will  donk."  (See  a«(«, 
p.  369.)  — Mrs.  John  Mills,  Hale,  Cheshire, 
writes  as  follows  in  reference  to  the  query : 

"  The  lines  inquired  about  were  written  JanuUTi 
1878,  to  the  memory  of  a  brother  who  died  in  ISHj 
V>N  m .  ^cAwx MxlU^oanker,  of  Manchester.    He bia 


not  coined  until  1773,  when  rooms  wet^YowA  \  xSv^  \3«\.\«ife  Sn  vw<i  VjirGMK«n^^<^;u>ted  Iqr 


«»aviLMAT25,i90L]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


407 


oorrespondent*  the  other  '  Hera  let  him  rest'  They 
were  engraved  (with  the  necessary  alteration),  by 
the  order  of  the  Princess  of  Wales,  on  the  tombstone 
of  an  old  nurse,  and  may  be  seen  in  Brompton 
Cemetery.  A  wreath  sent  by  the  Prince  and 
Princess  of  Wales  to  the  funeral  of  a  friend  had 
the  same  lines  written  on  a  card.  They  a^ain 
appeared  upon  a  wreath  sent  by  a  friend  at  the 
death  of  the  Duke  of  Clarence.  Still  more  recently 
instances  are  recorded  of  their  use  as  an  epitaph. 
At  the  present  time  Messrs.  Boots  have  brought 
oat  a  fine  framed  photograph  of  Queen  Victoria, 
with  an  ivory  tablet  at  the  foot  and  on  it  the 
lines : — 

Her  work  well  done. 

Her  race  well  run. 

Her  crown  well  won. 

Now  oometh  rest. 
'*  After  the  death  of  Mr.  Mills   the  lines  were 
published  in  a  selection  of  poems  entitled  'Vox 
Humana ' ;  and  in  *  The  Life  of  John  Mills,'  published 
two  years  ago,  is  some  account  of  their  origin." 

This  last,  written  by  Mrs.  John  Mills,  is 
excellent  work,  the  autobiography  of  her 
own  early  days  being  particularly  good. 

Arthur  Mat  all. 

"Carol."— I  make  the  following  extract 
from  the  'Hundred  Rolls,'  dated  1279,  vol.  i. 
174  b:- 

"  Dicti  homines  oomitis  mittebant  duos  de  garcio- 
nibus  suis  post  fenum.  In  eundo  supervenerunt 
ubi  puellaB  et  garoiones  carolaverunt  poet  columbas, 
et  dixit  unus  sarcionum  quod  una  de  puellis  bene 
carolavit^t  deoit  ei  columbas ;  hoc  audi  to  a  NichiJao 
Calf*  et  Thoma  le  Prute  qui  posuerunt  columbas, 
et  dixerunt  quod  menciebatur  et  non  haberet 
columbas,  et  intestavit  [9ic]  dictum  gareionem  cum 
qaodam  baoulo  quod  cecidit.  Hoc  audierunt 
homines  oomitis,  et  venerunt  cum  arcis  et  aliis 
armis  dictum  gareionem  rescuere." 

It  appears  that  the  servants  of  the  Earl  of 
Gloucester  sent  two  of  their  boys  to  a  village 
called  Campden,  in  Gloucestershire,  to  get  hay 
for  the  earPs  horses.  As  they  went  tbev  came 
to  a  place  where  girls  and  boys  "  carolled  for 
pigeons."  and  one  of  the  earl's  boys  said  that 
one  of  the  girls  "  carolled  well^ "  and  gave  her 
thepigeons. 

Tjnese  j^rls  and  boys  seem  to  have  been 
calling  pigeons  for  a  wager  by  whistling  or 
making  some  imitative  noise  to  attract  them. 
If  " carolaverunt "  really  means  "called,"  and 
not  '*  danced,"  I  would  suggest  that  the  word 
may  be  equivalent  to  "garolaverunt,"  from 
Late  Latin  aarrulare,  to  prate,  chatter,  call, 
and  so  be  related  to  Latin  aarruliis  and  gar- 
rire.  As  regards  the  interchange  of  ^  and  c. 
I  find  carucatce  and  carugatce  in  the  *  Hundred 
RoUs,'  i.  208  a.  Compare  also  Latin  gelu, 
gdidus,  English  cold;  and  Latin  glus.  gluten^ 
English  clay.  **  Carol "  in  the  sense  oi  ^'  ring- 
danoe"  may  have  another  origin.  Kavdykinae. 
gavelkind,  occurs  in  the  'Hundred  RoUs,^ 
1.208a.  S.  O.  Addy. 


Wb  must  reouest  correspondents  desirinj;  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  maybe  addressed  to  them 
direct.  

A  Nelson  Reuc— The  secretary  of  the 
Royal  United  Service  Institution  (Lieut*  Col. 
Holden)  has  in  his  possession  a  medallion— 
if  it  can  rightly  be  called  so— formerly  the 
property  of  Sir  Hutton  Gregory.  It  is  a 
head  of  Britannia  in  what  I  fancy  is  called 
repouss^  work,  on  a  small  copper  disc,  silvered 
on  the  face.  This  is  let  into  a  brass  case, 
resembling  the  top  cap  of  a  telescope,  on  a 
boss  in  the  middle  of  which  is  the  inscription, 
scratched  rather  than  engraved,  "Lady  Hamil- 
ton to  Horatio  Nelson  " — the  whole  in  a  black 
frame  (ebony  or  bog  oakX  like  a  miniature's, 
with  a  viscount's  coronet  at  top.  On  a  close 
examination  itpresents  many  curious  features, 
and  especiallythe  legend.  Nelson  was  a  peer 
before  Lady  Hamilton  was  on  anything  like 
intimate  terms  with  him,  and  it  does  not 
appear  that  she  ever  addressed  him  as 
Horatio.  And  why  "Lady"  Hamilton  to 
"  Horatio"  ?  "  Emma  to  Nelson  "  would  have 
been  understandable.  The  thing  is  a  conun- 
drum, of  which  it  would  be  pleasant  to  get  a 
solution.  Col.  Holden  asks  me  to  say  that 
he  will  be  very  glad  to  show  it  to  any  one 
who  is  willing  to  try  to  solve  the  riddle. 

J.  K  Lauohton. 

Delaooa  Bay.  —  A  very  well  -  informed 
friend  tells  me  that  the  Times  some  years 
back  stated  that  Delagoa  Bay  had  been 
offered  to  England.  I  shall  feel  obliged  if 
any  of  your  readers  can  tell  me  the  date. 

N.  S.  S. 

"St.  Hubert's  rent,  St.  Alban's  land, 
St.  Edmond's  right,  St.  Peter's  patrimony." 
—What  were  these  ?  Tyndall  specifies  them 
as  revenues  of  the  Church  which  were  ex- 
acted independently  of  tithes. 

W.  B.  Qbrish. 

Bishop's  Stortford. 

"  Shuttles."— What  is  the  meaning  of  this 
word  in  *Guy  Mannering,'  chap,  xxxviii.  ? 
From  the  context  it  can  scarcely  mean 
weaving  shuttles:  "shuttles,  and  trunks, 
and  drawers,  and  cabinets."  It  is  "shuttles 
in  three  different  editions. 

Jonathan  Bouchier. 

"  Rabbating."— The  notes  by  Mr.  G.  Wynd- 
ham  to  his  editiioii  ol  ^Vk«3K«sv^»j^^^  v^'^^ 
(Meth\»n,  Vft^^^  q)aoX«^  o\x  ^.  "iR^  Vtoca.  ^^v 


408 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [»«»8.vil  mat  25.1901. 


tenhtttn'ft  *  The  Arte  of  English  Poesie':  "In 

Shakespeare'a  day  the  legitimate  *  auricular 
figures  of  adding  and  rattbattftg '  jfive  a  wider 
licence/'  The  metaphorical  use  of  what  I 
understand  to  be  a  term  o£  carpentry,  as, 
indeed ^  the  entire  sentence,  appears  to  be 
worthy  of  an  explanation.  H.  P.  L, 

Bbaj>ford  ToKiK.— I  shall  be  tlad  of  any 
infornlation  relating  to  a  token  bearing  the 
following  inscription  :  "O.  John  Pj^eaton  of 
[arms  of  the  Preston  family  :  Two  bars,  on  a 
canton  a  cinquefoilj.  R.  Bradford,  16S6,  His 
half  peny."  Eoyne  mentions  this  example 
in  his  work  on  *  Yorkshire  Tokens,'  What 
connexion  had  Preston  with  tbe  Yorkshire 
Prestona  wbich  entitled  him  to  bear  the  arms  ? 

W.  E.  Peeston. 

Brodforil 

The  Last  Judgment.— A  picture  on  this 
aubjectp  attributed  to  Eaphael,  was  sold  in 
Amsterdam  in  1732,  tbe  property  of  Count 
Ferdinand  Flatten  berg ;  the  aum  realized 
was  ten  thousand  flonns.  Can  any  of  your 
readers  give  its  subsequent  history  1 

TlKTO. 

CoNTiutTAL  Burnt  OFFERmo.—At  what 
rrecise  date  did  the  sacrifice  referred  to  in 
Numbers  xxviii.  3  finally  ceaee  to  be  ob- 
laervad  1  XL. 

Philadelphia. 

Joan  of  Ana^Has  the  whole  of  her  first 
trial  in  Latin  ever  been  translated  into 
English  1    If  so,  where  can  I  find  it  I 

H,  T,  Wakk, 

AfiCHBiSHOp  HowLEY  (d.  1848).— Who  was 
his  mother?  The  *DicL  Nat  Biog*,' xxviii. 
128,  is  sOent  on  this  point.  H.  C. 

"  A  HAoo."— In  a  *I>ictionary  of  the  Manks 
Language,'  by  A,  Cregeen  (Douglas,  1835),  a 
new  edition  of  which  is  much  to  be  desiml, 
one  finds  "ifaA,  s.m.,  a  hago.  funk,  a  strong 
smell."    What  is  the  origin  of  this  word  k^irfo  ? 

E.   S*    DODGSON. 

WiLUAM  HoHE.— Can  any  correspondent 
kindly  bell  me  where  William  Hone^  editor 
of  the  *  Every-Day  Book,'  was  buried !  I 
desire  a  copy  of  the  inscription  on  his  grave- 
stone, if  one  exists.  He  died  8  November, 
1842,  at  Tottenham,      Wiluam  Andrews. 

HuU  Koyal  InatJttitioti. 

A  Tragedy  by  Me.  Qladstonk.— The  Lon- 
don correspondent  of  the  MancfuMitr  Cmirfer^ 
in  referring  to  Rudyard  Kipling's  forthcoming 
drama,  under  date  20  April,  say  a  :  "  There  m 
no  remoa  why  Mr.  £iplme  should  not  ^rpe 
tmtG  a  play^  for  we  ftre  all  plaj  wri^^hu  uo^ 


even  Mr.  Gladstone  liaving  been  gmlty  of 
writing  a  blank-verse  tragedy."  If  written, 
on  what  subject  was  it ;  and  was  it  ever 
printed  1  J.  B.  McGovern, 

St.  Stephen's  Rectory,  C.-on-M.,  Manchoiter. 

MoBTiMER.  — Has  Eobert  Mortimer,  who 
married  Margai^t,  daughter  and  heir  of 
Hugh  de  Say,  ever  been  properly  afliliat^ 
to  tbe  Mortimers  of  Wigraarel  Mr^  -I.  R. 
PlanchB,  Somerset  Herald,  declared  isome 
forty  years  ago  that  no  point  of  contact  had 
over  been  found  for  him.  Is  there  any  later 
evidence  to  disprove  Mr.  Plancbe  t 

H.  M.  Batsoh. 

Hoe  Benhftm,  Newbury. 

Georgk  Wallace,— I  shall  be  giad  of  any 
reference  to  George  Wallace,  ad  vocata,  author 
of  *  Hills  of  Fife,'  which  wiU  afford  some 
biographical  details  about  this  eighteenth- 
century  rimer;  The  second  and  acknow- 
ledged  edition  of  '  Hills  of  Fife '  was  pub- 
limbed  in  l&OO,  but  it  ori^nally  appeareci 
about  forty  years  earlier.  Biographical  i»  orkj, 
however,  .-^oem  to  have  passed  him  by,  though 
he  was  also  the  author  of  various  legal  wofta^ 
besides  tbe  poem  in  question. 

R.  Hedoer  Waixaci. 

Cluny  and  Clukie.— Is  there  a  conoeiion 
of  any  kind  between  Cltiny,  Sa6ne-et- Loire, 
France,  and  Loch  Clunie  in  Inverness  m(i 
?  Arthoe  Mayall, 


DuTTON  AND  Seaman  Familcbs,— Duiton 
Seaman  died  174a,  liis  son  Dutton  did 
178.^  and  grandson  Dutton  1804.  How  did 
the  name  come  into  the  Seaman  family  7  Was 
it  by  marriage  ?  R.  J.  FirNMOBt 

S&ndgfite,  Kent* 

Marriage  CirsTOM:   Grhtka   Geekn.  — I 

should  be  grateful  for  information  abooi 
the  custom  of  scrambling  for  a  bride's  glove* 
after  the  ceremony  and  putting  them  on- 
Also  about  an  Irish  adventurtir  who  bragged 
of  imaginary  estates  in  Ireland  and  eloped 
with  an  English  heiress  in  the  early  dajJi 
of  Gretna  Green  ;  and  a  barrister  who  eloped 
prior  to  1 7S2.  C* 

C.  Tai*bot,  Printer,  &g,,  of  Book  Tablit. 
— In  a  first- rate  description  of  the  origijiri 
"book  tablet,"  the  nme  in  which  woi; 
mences  **  If  then  art  borrowed  by  a  f rieod^" 
(te.,  which  appeared  in  the  Aniiquart^^  vol  li 
(1880)p  the  name  of  the  printer  and  mlkr  is 
given  SLS  C  Talbot,  177,  Tooley  Street  Is  any- 
thing  known  of  him  I  This  i9  a  mo^t  tninale 
description  of  the  Brst  iaaue  of  thasa  tabtela 
V  Jam^  Talbot. 


9^  8.  VIL  Mat  25. 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


409 


Jacques  Caktibe's  Voyage  of  1534.  —  In 
Cartier's  first  voyage,  Paris  edition  of  1867, 
occur  the  following  items  :  p.  21,  **il  luy  a  ung 
stllan  etperroy,"  and  in  another  place  "terres 
basses  et  pays  sounies,''  and  "c'est  terre  basse 
et  sounie'^ialso  we  entered  a  bay  "et  couche 
terrtP  What  are  the  equivalent  English 
terms  for  nLUm  and  perroy^  soumey  and  couche 
terre^  and  what  is  the  etymology  ?     J.  P.  B. 

Bishop's  Head  and  Foot.  — On  a  lofty 
moorland  in  the  hundred  of  Penwith,  in 
Cornwall,  are  situated  two  farmhouses  about 
a  hundred  yards  apart,  known  respectively 
as  the  Bishop's  Head  and  Foot.  The  parishes 
of  Zennor,  Oulval,and  Towednack  meet  close 
by.  Can  any  one  tell  me  the  reason  for  these 
odd  names?  All  around  are  characteristic 
Celtic  names.  G.  H.  D. 

Book  of  Morning  and  Evening  Prayeb 
Only.— -Was  there  ever  a  Book  of  Common 
Praver  in  English  containing  only  the  services 
of  Matins  and  Evensong  ?  Local  and  other 
controversy  has  been  raging  over  the  ques- 
tion whether  the  archbishops  have  done  right 
in  accepting  the  direction  of  the  preface  to 
the  present  Book  of  Common  Prayer,  that 
resort  shall  be  had  to  the  bishop  of  the  diocese 
if  any  "  parties  diversely  take  anything  "  in 
regard  to  the  understanding  or  execution  of 
the  things  therein  contained.  An  objection 
to  their  so  doing  in  relation  to  matters  affect- 
ing the  Communion  Service  has  been  based 
on  the  allegation  that  "  this  book  "  referred 
to  in  the  j)reface  means  only  Morning  and 
Evening  Prayers.  Does  the  preface  come 
over  to  us,  not  only  from  the  Prayer  Books  of 
Edward  VI.  and  of  Elizabeth,  but  also  from  an 
authorized  order  for  Morning  and  Evening 
Prayer  published  by  iUelf^  of  which  at  prasent 

1  have  never  heard  ?  I  shall  be  glad  to  be 
informed  if  it  ever  existed.         W.  S.  B.  H. 

Municipal  Coincidences.  —  On  26  April, 
1837,  Henry  Gregson  was  elected  Town  Clerk 
of  Leincastor,  in  succession  to  John  Higgin. 
He  held  office  till  1840.  He  then  entered  the 
Council  and  became  twice  Mayor,  1850-1  and 
1861-2.  In  the  former  year  he  received  Queen 
Victoria  on  her  visit  to>  Lancaster.    He  died 

2  September,  1885,  and  is  buried  at  Caton. 
Reversing  the  order  of  things,  Bartholomew 
Charles  Gidley  became  Mayor  of  Exeter  in 
November,  1870,  and  was  also  an  alderman. 
In  1878  he  was  elected  Town  Clerk,  and  held 
office  till  his  death  on  1  October,  1888.  His 
father  was  also  Town  Clerk,  but  died  whilst 
his  son  was  under  articles  to  him.  The  son, 
very  curiously,  also  died  whilst  his  own  son 
was  articled  to  him.    Thomas  Shepiieard  was 


Town  Clerk  of  Lancaster  from  30  April,  1773L 
till  1793,  and  became  Mayor  in  1802,  and  died 
20  April,  1806.  The  present  Town  Clerk  of 
Nottingham  (Sir  Samuel  Johnson)  was  for- 
merly Mayor  and  Town  Clerk  of  Faversham, 
Kent.  We  have  at  least  two  instances  here 
of  Town  Clerks  whose  fathers  were  Mayors : 
William  Dunn  (Town  Clerk  1840-58X  son  of 
Jonathan  Dunn  (Mayor  1841  -  2X  and  my 
immediate  predecessor,  William  Oliver  Roper, 
F.S.A.  (Town  Clerk  1892-6),  son  of  William 
Roper  (Mayor  1869-70).  Are  there  any  such 
records  in  other  towns  1 

T.  Cann  Hughes,  M.A. 
Lancaster. 

Bakon  Grivignce  and  Power.— In  the 
Illwtrated  Jxmdon  Nevos  of  23  April,  1853, 
appears,  owing  to  the  marriage  of  a  great- 
granddauf^hter  of  the  Baron  Grivignce  of 
Malaga  with  Napoleon  III.,  some  account  of 
his  family.  The  marriages  of  four  daughters 
ai*e  disclosed,  but  not  their  Christian  names. 
One  marriea  Neumann,  Consul  for  Poland ; 
another  Lesseps  ;  another  Michael  N.  Power, 
of  Malaga  ;  and  another  William  Kirkpatrick. 
who  is  stated  to  have  been  a  Scotohman  and 
to  have  acted  as  American  Consul  at  Malaga. 
The  marriages  of  three  daughters  of  this 
William  Kirkpatrick,  but  again  without  any 
Christian  names,  are  recorded.  One  marriea 
W.  Kirkpatrick,  another  Count  Cabarrus,  and 
the  thira  Count  de  Montijo  of  Spain,  whose 
daughter,  Eugenie  Marie,  is  the  ex-Einpress 
of  the  French.  I  seek  for  the  lacking  (Jnris- 
tian  names,  for  dates  and  places  of  the  various 
marriages,  and  an^  other  information  of 
in  terest.  The  marriage  of  one  of  my  nephews 
with  a  granddaughter  of  Michael  N.  rower 
induces  me  to  insert  this  query.  Are  there 
other  descendants  of  Baron  Grivignce  1 

Reginald  Stewart  Boddington. 
Constitutional  Club,  Northumberland  Avenue. 

Thomas  Marry  at,  M.D.,  1730-92.  —  The 
life  of  the  above  extraordinary  person  is 
given  in  the  *  Diet,  of  Nat.  Biog.'  and  in  his 
'Ther^meutics;  or,  Art  of  Healing,'  which 
went  through  thirty -seven  editions,  but  these 
notices  are  very  meagre.  I  believe  he  never 
went  to  America,  but  to  Padua.  He  was  son 
of  Zephaniah  Marryat.  mentioned  in  Wilson's 
*  Dissenting  Churches,  and  of  Anne  Howard, 
of  Chudleigh.  His  father  had  four  other 
children,  but  I  know  nothing  of  their  his- 
tories. Thomas  Marryat  married  Sarah  (bom 
1736),  daughter  of  John  Davie,  of  South- 
wolcf,  and  nad  six  children,  one  of  whom, 
Joseph,  was  M.P.,  Political  Agent  for  Grenada^ 
J.  P.,  Chairinauoi  lAo^^^^sAi^^Xxw  i^V^'wjN. 
Marryat,  the  uon^J^v     ^^mi  w^^i  ^^  ^^^^ 


410 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      t«*  s.  vn.  mat  25.  i»i. 


readers  tell  mo  anything  about  John  Da  via 
of  South  wold,  what  year  Marrjat  married 
his  daughter,  when  she  died,  and  where  she 
was  buried  ?  T  fancy  she  and  her  children 
must  have  lived  at  Southwold^  aa  her  son 
Samuel  married  Anne,  daughter  of  John 
Church  of  that  place.  There  is  no  mention 
made  of  Marryat'a  marriage  in  the  '  Diet,  of 
Nat,  Biog.*  or  the  life  of  the  author  in  the 
VArt  of  Healing/ 

L.  Camfbbll  JoHNSfON. 


gave  to  his  friend  J.  D.  Anderson.  We  must 
for  ever  guess  in  vain  on  how  many  speci- 
fically bequeathed  **  prints  and  pickters"  and 
'Mittell  things"  to  his  son  I^aak  were  em- 
blazoned either  his  name  or  L  W. 

StAPLETOK   MAfiTHI, 
The  Fira,  Norton,  Woreeater* 


A  WALTON  RELIC, 
(9^  S.  vii,  188.) 
No  comment  has  been  made  by  any  Wal- 
tonian  on  this  find.  The  only  person  I  can 
discover  of  the  name  of  Anderson  who  was 
ever  mentioned  in  connexion  with  Walton 
appears  to  be  the  Mr*  Anderson  who  is  stated 
in  the  notes  to  chap,  viii,  of  '  The  Complete 
Angler/  in  some  of  the  numerous  editions  of 
that  work,  to  have  let  his  seal-ring  fall  by 
accident  into  the  river  Tyne,  which  was 
discovered  in  the  stomach  of  a  salmon  caught 
in  that  river  This  Mr  Anderson  is  in  all 
Major's  editions  I  possess  referred  to  as 
having  been  Mayor  of  Newcastle  in  1599, 
and  to  hiive  been  afterwards  knighted.  There 
is  some  mistake  over  this  date,  because  in 
that  year  William  Jenison  was  mayor*  The 
mayor  in  1594  was  a  Henry  Anderson,  who 
was  the  father  of  Sir  Henry  Anderson^  the 
mavor  in  1813* 

We  have  not  been  informed  as  to  the  con- 
tents of  the  letters  and  other  papers  found 
in  the  fishing-bag.  Was  there  ever  a  cockney 
tourist  who  delighted  to  write  his  name  o^ 
carve  his  initials  more  than  did  Walton  1 
We  read  of  a  stone  near  Madeley  Pond  on 
which  he  is  said  to  have  carved  his  initials. 
His  own  and  Cotton*a  were  "twisted  in  cipher" 
over  the  door  of  Cotton's  Fishinjj  -  House ; 
and,  thoueh  it  appears  from  chap,  iii,  part  ii, 
of  'The  Complete  Angler'  that  he  probably 
never  saw  it  himself,  still  **  he  saw  it  cut  in  the 
stone  before  it  wias  set  up."  In  some  twenty 
of  his  own  books  now  in  the  cathedral 
library  at  Salisbury  can  be  seen  his  name 
or  initials*  In  the  cathedral  library  at 
Worcester  his  name  can  be  found  inscribed 
in  a  copy  of  the  first  edition  of  his  *  Lives  * 
(1670),  which  he  presented  to  Mrs.  Elyza 
Johnson*  He  directed  that  on  the  ring;  he 
bequeathed  by  his  will  his  initials  should  be 
engraved.  No  wonder,  then,  that  Walton 
could  not  refmin  from  having  his  i\a.mfe  Sbwd 


BiK  Cheistophee  Hattost's  Mokdmett 
("tb  B.  iv.  a09,  395)*— At  the  first  of  the  above 
references  I  instanced  the  statement  in 
Murray^s  *  London  as  It  Is^  (1879)  that  Bir 
Christopher  Hatton's  monument  was  **  pre- 
served m  the  crypt "  of  St  PauUs  Cathedral 
The  inaccuracy  of  the  statement  was  fully 
set  forth  at  the  second  reference  by  Di. 
Spaebow  Simpson.  Since  then  I  have  seeo 
this  palpable  error  still  rampant  in  several 
books  of  recent  date,  notably  in  No*  1  of  "The 
Kyrle  Pamphlets/  dealing  with  St*  Paul's 
Cathedral  (1893).  Here  on  p.  25  it  is  stated 
that  amongst  the  remains  of  Old  St.  Paul's 
in  the  crypt  is  part  of  the  monument  of 
*'Lord  Chancellor  Hatton ,  after  whom  Hatton 
Garden  is  named."  When  visiting  St.  Paul's 
last  autumn  I  purchased  from  one  of  the 
vergers  Beirs  admirable  shilling  handbook 
(1900),  written  by  the  Hev.  Arthur  Bimock, 
M.A.  Here  one  would  scarcely  look  for  errors, 
butj  lo  and  behold,  I  observe  the  legend  con- 
cerning the  Hatton  monument  again  staring 
rae  in  the  face  on  p,  13G  !  What  a  pity  it  i« 
that  anything  but  first- hand  information 
should  be  recorded  in  the  pages  of  such  a 
superb  and  well-written  book  i  Who  m  the 
onginal  infallible  0)  sinner  that  aU  these 
writers  so  faithfully  copy  I  Can  we  not 
gibbet  him  once  and  for  all  1 

John  T.  Pack. 

West  Hftddon,  Northamptontihire, 

WesT'Coitntrymek's  Tails  (9^  S.  vii.  2R6>  - 
As  to  Englishmen  being  possessed  of  tailH. 
see  Mr,  Henry  Smetham's  '  History  of  Strood,' 
p.  146,  William  Longespt%,  called  Earl  of 
Salisbury,  who  died  in  1250,  was  insulted 
by  the  French^  when  on  a  Crusade,  by  the 
allegation  that  Englishmen  had  tails  (*  Diet 
Nat,  Biog.,*  XKxiv*  119).  John  Bale  alludes  to 
this  belief,  saying  that  it  was  propagated 
by  monks  and  priests  to  do  honour  to  certain 
mediae val  saints  whom  he  calls  *'canonii«d 
Cains."  The  passages  wherein  he  dwells  on 
this  are  curious,  but  1  refrain  from  ouotin^ 
them  here  (*  Actes  of  English  Votaries,  partt 
folios  38b,  97b)-  Edwa^bd  Peacock, 

Apostle  Spoons  (9*^  S.  vii  3a0V— In  • 
lengthy  inventory  of  the  eibcts  of  Rowlmd 
\^u^te\\,  <d  Hatton  Hall,  io  Cbeahira  eMquitd 


could  not  refmiB  from  having  ms  i\a.mfe  Sbwd \  \iu^te\\^  ^t  Hatton  Hall,  lo  ubeahira  enqom 
initialB  impressed  on  the  fishm^  -  ct^\  \iii\du.\ja^  \%  "^^xOtv^  \*^i^\^^  Sa^  tb©   foUowiiig 


9^  8.  VIL  May  25, 1901]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


411 


item :    "  21  Apostle   spoons,   41    ouncea   at 
4*,  M  the  ounce."  M, 

Your  correspondent  Miss  E.  LegaWeekes 
will  find  a  very  interesting  account  of  Apostle 
8poons  in  a  book  on  'Old  English  Plate/  by 
Wilfred  Joseph  Cripp,  C.B.,  F.S.A.,  published 
by  John  Murray.  It  contains  a  number  of 
illuBtrationa.  The  late  lie  v.  J,  S  tan  i  forth 
seemH  to  have  possessed  the  most  ancient 
hall-marked  Apostle  spoon  known,  it  being 
of  tho  year  1493,  Cearles  Oreen. 

18,  Shrewibury  Road,  Sheffield, 

In  Mr.  C  J.  Jackson's  learned  and  interest- 
ing article  'The  Spoon  and  its  History/  read 
before  the  Society  of  Antiquaries  13  Febru- 
ary*  1890  (ATrhwoiogia,  vol.  liii.  pp,  107-46), 
it  13  stated  that  no  entry  regarding  Apostle 
spoons  appears  to  have  beeo  found  of  a  date 
earlier  than  the  ^ear  1494-6,  but  that  a  spoon 
of  this  kind  is  in  existence  dated  with  the 
London  hall-mark  of  1490-1. 

Edward  Peacock. 

Offtcial  Lists  {9^^  S,  vii.  289).— I  think 
the  docunients  formerly  in  the  Augmentation 
Office  were  removed  to  the  Record  Office, 
Chancer]^  Lane^  where  it  is  probable  the 
itifoniiation  required  may  l^e  obtained. 

EvEBAED  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

"  Bull  axd  Last"  (9^'  S.  vii.  128,  254,  331). 
—The  endeavour  to  find  meanings  for  public- 
house  signs  has  produced  some  absurd  ex- 
planations, which,  although  purely  conjec- 
tuml,  are  advanced  in  many  instances  with 
perfect  cocksureness.  Not  the  least  notorious 
or  antiquated  of  these  relates  to  "Bull  and 
Mouth/'  which  is  affirmed  to  be  a  corruption 
of  "  Bonloene  Mouth  "—a  nonsensical  phrase 
inconceivable  save  to  the  etymologer  at  any 
price,  for  Boulogne  is  not  the  name  of  a 
river.  Without  launching  the  mind  across 
Chapnel,  what  would  anybody  understand 
by  "Dover  Mouth"!  Of  course  a  like 
"  explanation  ^*  is  devised  for  "  Bull  and 
Gate  ";  but  on©  is  astounded  by  so  fantastic 
a  conjecture  as  "  Boulogne  a  FEst "  for  *^  Bull 
and  Last "  offered  by  a  correspondent  at  the 
second  reference,  and  still  more  by  his 
su^^estion  of  "Boulogne  Bouche'*  as  the 
onginal  of  "Bull  and  Bush/'  Brewer,  in  his 
'Phrase  and  Fable/  asserts  that  "Boulogne 
Gate  '*  and  "  Boulogne  Mouth  *'  were  names 
"adopted  out  of  compliment  to  Henry  YIIL, 
who  took  Boulogne  m  1044."  But  what  his- 
torical  evidence  is  there  of  this  t  la  it  certain 
or  at  all  probable  that  these  particular  tavern 
ci^ns  were  existent  350  years  ago  I  As  to 
"Boulogne  Bouche ''— Boulogne  dosh /— the 


moat  elementary  knowledge  of  French  should 
have  prevented  the  fabrication  of  so  impos- 
sible a  name.  *'  Bkjuche  de  Boulogne  "  might 
pa«!g,  though  it  would  be  meaningless  to  a 
Frenchman  ;  and,  as  far  as  English  is  con- 
cernedj  the  only  Boulogne  mouth  conceivable 
is  the  mouth  of  a  native  of  that  town.  It  is 
time  that  this  haphazard  kind  of  etymology 
were  ended  for  ever.  Why  must  enigmatical 
tavern  signs  necessarily  be  corruptions  ?  Why 
not  accept  the  fact  that  they  are  unintelligibly 
emanating  as  they  do  from  individual  caprice, 
and  cease  wasting  brain-power  in  trying  to 
explain  the  inexplicable  1  F.  Adams. 

Hately  Family  (Q^  S.  vii.  387). —The 
original  seat  of  this  family  appears  to  have 
been  Mellockstanev  now  called  Mellerstain, 
in  Berwickshire.  Various  members  appe^ir 
in  the  Coldinghame  charters  during  the  thir- 
teenth century.  An  Alexander  and  a  John 
Hateley  appear  on  Bagman  Roll  in  1296, 
James  Haitlie  was  retoured  heir  to  his  father, 
John  Haitlie  of  Millerstanis,  in  162&.  Another 
branch  of  the  family  owned  Lanibden,  in  the 
same  county,  during  the  fifteenth,  sixteenth, 
and  seventeenth  centuries.  The  seal  of  Alex- 
ander Hatfilo  in  1296  bears  a  boar's  head 
couped. 

AlellerHtain  now  belongs  to  tho  Earl  of 
Haddington,  to  whom  it  descended  from  the 
Baillies  of  Mellerstain.  Various  notices  of 
the  family  occur  in  Raine's  '  North  Durham/ 
Home  Writs  (Hist,  MS^),  Marchmont  Writs 
(Hist  M8S.).  J,  O.  Wallace-Jamss, 

HoddinKtoti. 

Nelson's  Death  (9^^  S,  vii.  S67).— I  think 
Arthur  Wm.  Devis  (not  Davis),  1763-1822, 
was  the  artist  (see  Bryants  'Dictionary  of 
Painters  and  Engravers  ),  but  no  mention  is 
made  of  his  being  present.  Consult  Red- 
grave. G.  T.  Sherboen. 

Twk'keDham* 

Has  Dr.  Gatty  forgotten  or  overlooked 
my  reply  in  *  N.  *k  Q.,*  S^  S.  vii.  478,  to  his 
former  and  similar  question  (p,  429)  ?  In  it 
I  furnishefl  a  brief  account  of  the  life  and 
works  of  Arthur  William  Devis  (not  W.  E. 
Davis),  and  how  he  hapf>ened  to  be  on  board 
the  Victory  at  the  death  of  Nelson.  Portraits 
of  Warren  Hastings  and  (jovernor  Herbert 
by  A.  W.  Devis  are  in  the  National  Portrait 
Gallery.  Everakd  Homk  Colemak. 

71|  BrtKjkniick  Roiwl. 

Patmore  and  Swedenboro  (9^*^  S.  vii.  345), 
— Mr.  Henry  Septimus  Sutton,  the  writer 
of  the  article  on  this  to^ic  TO&\iX>ftxv^  Na^ 
Mn.  Chaui.i^h  H\QTi\kU^^«^\mTveA<^Ti^!!vH3ax- 
day,  4  Ma^— 1\\^  ^^"^  ^  ^^  issws&m  ^x 


412 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9«»8.vix.  may  25.1901. 


*N.  &  Q.'  in  which  he  is  referred  to.  Mr. 
Sutton  (my  friend  of  thirty  years),  in  addition 
to  being  an  enthusiastic  student  of  Sweden- 
borg,  was  a  poet  whose  sacred  verse  has 
taken  its  place  with  the  poetry  of  Herbert 
and  Vaughan.  Wiluam  E.  A.  Axon. 

Manchester. 

A  Friday  Superstition  (9"»  S.  vi.  265,  373, 
464;  vii.  194,  337).— I  have  frequently  heard 
in  our  Midland  counties  a  rime  similar  to,  and 
I  believe  identical  with,  the  one  from  Vireinia. 
Friday  is  an  unluckv  day  partly,  at  least, 
because  it  was  the  oay  of  the  Crucifixion : 
"Friday  for  crosses.''  Is  there  any  similar 
reason  for  the  unluckiness  of  Saturday  ?  1 
was  once  rebuked  by  a  Church  of  England 
clergyman  for  starting  on  a  pleasure  trip  on 
the  Saturday  in  Passion  Week,  because  "  there 
is  no  Christ "  on  that  day.  ^*  No  Christ  ? "  I 
asked.  "  Certainly  not,"  was  the  answer. 
"  He  is  in  the  grave  to^ay  :  He  does  not  rise 
until  to-morrow  morning. '  C.  C.  B. 

"Canouse"  (9">  S.  vii.  329).— Apparently 
erroneous  for  "tan  ouse,"  tanner's  ouse,  or 
oak  bark,  an  infusion  of  which  is  employed 
for  tanning  hides.  See  *  Encycl.  Brit/ninth 
edition,  xiv.  382,  for  an  account  of  tne  pro- 
cess. F.  Adams. 

Bottled  Ale:  its  Invention  (9^  S.  vii. 
287).— In  further  corroboration  of  R  B.'s 
interesting  extract  from  the  'Dictionary  of 
National  Biography,'  it  may  interest  him  and 
many  of  your  contributors  to  know  that  in 
*  The  Curiosities  of  Ale  and  Beer,'  by  John 
Bickerdyke  (London,  Swan  Sonnenschein  & 
Co.),  1889,  p.  178,  appears  the  following  :— 

"  Fuller,  in  his  *  Worthies  of  England,*  ascribes 
the  invention  of  bottled  beer  to  Alexander  Newell, 
Dean  of  St.  Paul's  and  a  master  of  Westminster 
School  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Mary.  The  Dean  was 
a  devoted  angler.  *  But '  says  old  Fuller,  *  whilst 
Newell  was  catching  of  fishes  Bishop  Bonner  was 
catching  of  Newell,  and  would  certainly  have  sent 
him  to  the  shambles  had  not  a  good  iJondon  mer- 
chant conveved  him  away  upon  the  seas.'  Newell 
was  engaged  in  his  favourite  pursuit  on  the  banks 
of  the  Thames,  when  such  pressing  notice  of  his 
danger  reached  him,  that  he  was  obliged  to  take 
immediate  flight.  On  his  return  to  England,  after 
Mary's  death,  he  remembered,  when  resuming  his 
old  amusement,  that  on  the  day  of  his  flight  he  had 
left  his  simple  repast,  the  liquor  of  which  consisted 
of  a  bottle  of  beer,  in  a  safe  place  in  the  river  bank  : 
there  he  sought  it.  and,  as  the  quaint  language  of 
Fuller  informs  us,  he  *  found  it  no  bottle,  but  a  gun, 
such  the  sound  at  the  openine  thereof ;  and  this  is 
believed  [casualty  is  the  mother  of  more  invention 
than  industry]  the  original  of  bottled  ale  in  Eng- 
land.' If  this  be  the  true  origin  of  bottled  ale,  the 
use  of  it  roust  have  spread  rapidly,  for  we  find  it 
mentioned  in  many  Elizabethan  wriiet%.    In  Ben 


drawer  to  bring  *  A  bottle  of  ale  to  quench  me, 
rascal,'  and  many  other  quotations  could  be  given 

E roving  its  use  in  those  days.  Of  course  ale  mnnt 
ave  been  carried  in  bottles  long  before  Newell's 
time,  almost  as  early,  indeed,  as  bottles  came  into 
use,  out  the  bottled  ale  referred  to  is  that  which 
has  been  so  long  in  bottle  as  to  have  acquired  a 
peculiar  and  delicious  flavour  combined  with  a 
certain  briskness  not  found  in  draught  ale." 

G.  Greien  Smith. 
Moorland  Grange,  Bournemouth. 

The  Barclays  of  Mathers  (9*^  S.  vii.  309). 
The  information  given  in  the  various  pedi- 
grees of  the  above  family  respecting  John  de 
Berkeley's  taking  away  from  the  monks  of 
Aberbrothock  all  their  possessions  in  his 
lands  given  by  his  brother,  <Stc.,  and  in  lieu 
thereof  by  an  agreement  giving  them  the 
mill  of  Conveth,  also  binding  himself  and  his 
heirs  to  pay  them  the  sum  of  thirteen  marks 
silver  yearly*  will  probably  be  taken  from 
Nisbets  *Heraldryj   1804,  vol.  ii.,  appendix, 

E.  237.    He  says  this  agreement  and  the  cod- 
rmation  thereof   are   extracted    from    the 
chartulary  of  Aberbrothock,  and    that  six 
other  documents  were  taken  from  that  char- 
tulary in  the  Advocates'  Library,  Edinburgh. 
John  Radcliffe. 

Florio's  *  Montaignb'  (9*»»  S.  iii.  7).— Both 
are  misprints  :  vide  Florio's  first  folio,  pp.  381 
and  395  ;  also  Dent's  edition.  Temple  Classics. 
"For  right"  should  hQforerigkt  (in  one  word), 
and  "madnesse"  should  be  maidens.  The 
evolution  of  the  latter  misprint  is  as  follows : 
first  folio,  "maidens";  second  folio  (1613), 
"  maidnes  "  ;  third  folio  (1632X  "  maidnesae " ; 
Morley  (1886),  "madnesse."    C.  S.  Harris. 

"Theodolite"  (9"»  S.  vii.  306).— It  may  be 
worth  noting  that  Seybold  in  Grober's 
^Romanische  Sprachwissenschaft,'  p.  404,  in 
his  paragraph  on  *  The  Influence  of  Arabic  on 
Spanish,^  atter  quoting  a  large  number  of 
Arabic  words  in  Spanish,  such  as  annwi, 
zenith,  nadir,  adds,  "al(h)idade,  alhadida« 
regie  mobile  dans  rastrolaoe,  arab.  ali  dftda," 
and  states  that  the  word  theodolith  is  a 
corrupted  form  of  this  word.  Alideday,  he 
states,  was  an  older  form ;  then  (itmida, 
which  passed  into  the  French  form  cUidade; 
and  in  English  the  article  the  seenos  to 
have  been  incorporated  into  the  word,  lik« 
"t'other"  for  "the  other." 

Herbert  A.  Strong 

Silhouettes  of  Children  (9^  S.  ii  3^7, 
353,  396.  436;  v.  190:  vi.  256,  366).-In  » 
small  collection  of  silnouettes  in  my  po^' 
sion  are  two  in  oval  frames,  the  aeid  ^ 
W^t  ot  each  being  painted  in  IndiaD  ink  on  • 


mentionea  in  many  ifili/Abethan  wruet%.    In  Ben  \  u\3ka\.  Q^  eacn  oemg  paini^ea  in  inaian  in*  w  - 
.JonaoD'8  'iiartholomew  Fair'  Ursula  ca\\&VA  \.Yi<&\QO\iNQ;iL^«j^\^^  ^V^^ 


•^  8.  viL  mav  25. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


413 


thrown  upon  the  flat  surface  of  white 
ster  at  the  back  of  the  portrait.  On  the 
erae  of  the  frame  is  pasted  the  artist's 
ertisement  in  an  ornamental  oval  ensigned 
the  arras  of  George  III.  prior  to  1801.  It 
8  as  follows  :— 

By  their  Majesties  Authority 
M'  Rosenberg 

of  Bath 

Profile  Painter 

to  their  Majesties  &  Royal  Family 

Begs  leave  to  inform  the  Nobility 

and  Gentry  that  he  takes  most  striking 

Likenesses  in  Profile,  which  he  Paints 

on  Glass  in  imitation  of  stone 

that  will  never  fade 

Time  of  ?  Minute 

Price  from  7.  6  to  ?    Family  Pieces 

whole  lengths  in  various  Attitudes 

N.B.    Likenesses  for  Rings,  Lockets, 

Trinkets  &  Snuff  Boxes. 

ill-length  portrait  in  profile,  cut  in  black 
mounted  upon  white  paper,  was  executed 
J.  Gapp,  who  describes  himself  modestly 
mder  :— 

The  original  Profilist  for  cutting 
accurate  Likenesses  attends  Daily 
at  the  Third  Tower  in  the  centre  of 
the  Chain  Pier ;  and  begs  to  observe 
that  he  has  no  connexion  with  any 
other  person,  and  that  he  continues 

to  produce  the  most  wonderful 

Likenesses,  in  which  the  expression 

and  peculiarity  of  Character  are  brought 

into  action  m  a  very  superior  style 

on  the  following  terms  :— 

Full'length  Likenesses  at  28.  Qd.  each, 

two  of  the  same  4a.,  or  in  bronze  is.— 

Profile  to  the  Bust  U.  two  of  the  same 

1«.  6(i.  or  in  bronze  2«.  Ladies  and 

Gentlemen  on  horseback  la.  Qd. 

Single  Horses  58.,  Dogs  U.  Qd.    N.B. 

a  variety  of  interesting  small  cuttings  for 

Ladies  Scrap  Books, 
le  "  M'  Rosenberg  of  Bath ''  mentioned 
e  was,  I  suppose,  Thomas  Elliot  Rosen- 
,  a  miniature  and  landscape  painter, 
le  youngest  son  George  Frederic  Rosen- 
(1825-69)  is  noticed  in  the  *  Dictionary 
rational  Biography.'  I  have  also  two 
ly  portraits  m  pastel  signed  (and  dated 
)  by  William  BeUers,  of  whom  there  is 
ief  notice  in  the  *D.N.B.'  The  dates 
a  birth  and  death  are  unknown,  and  he 
id  therein  to  have  flourished  1761-74. 
portraits  in  question,  though  probably 
•ate  likenesses  enough  of  the  sitters, 
little  artistic  merit.  A.  R.  Bayley. 
Margaret's,  Malvern. 

American  Invasion  (9"»  S.  vii.  227,  293, 
—Your  correspondent  S.  J.  A.  F.  says 
the  Pilgrim  Fathers  carried  the  spelling 
ir  to  America.  This  seems  to  be  rather 
imon  assumption,  hut  is  it  aupportod  by 


facts  ?  So  far  as  my  readins  goes,  the  American 
spelling  which  is  objectea  Uy— theater^  center, 
fiber,  traveler,  drc.— dates  only  from  quite  re- 
cent times.     I   have  looked  over  the  first 
American  editions  of  some  of  Lowell's  works 
in  my  library— his  'Poems,'  'Conversations 
on  some  of  the  Old  Poets,'  and  others— and  I 
find  that  theatre,  centre,  metre,  lustre,  kc.,  are 
invariably  spelt  as  in  English.    Words  ending 
in  our,  such  as  hvmour,/avour,  armour,  &c., 
are  spelt  humor,  favor,  armor,  but  I  believe 
some  of  his  English  contempNoraiies,  including 
Dickens,  followed  this  practice.    In  the  cata- 
logue of    Mr.  W.   H.  Arnold's  'Books  and 
Letters,'  which,  before  these  lines  are  in  print, 
will  have  been  sold  by  Messrs.  Bangs,  oi  New 
York,  there  is  a  letter  of  Washin^jton  Irving, 
dated  24  February,  1835  (p.  95).  m  which  he 
refers  to  *'  various  travellers  in  tne  U.S."   Per- 
sonally, therefore,  I  am  inclined  to  g^ive  up 
the  Pilgrim  Fathers,  and  to  ascribe  the  so- 
called  American  spelling  to  the  spirit  of  in- 
novation which  is  natural   to  a  young  and 
aspiring  nation.    There  is  no  reason  why  the 
Americans  should  not  strike  out  an  ortho- 
graphical line  of  their  own,  though  we  Eng- 
lish may  quite  as  naturally  like  to  stand  on 
our  arUiouus  vtas.    1  dare  say,  however,  that 
it  would  puzzle  that  little  Chauvinist,  the 
English  schoolboy,  to  explain  why  the  last 
syllable  of  diameter   or  perimeter   is    spelt 
dfifferently  from  that  of  metre. 

W.  F.  Pridbaux. 

There  is  no  room  for  surmises  like  that  of 
Mr.  Page  after  the  explanation  I  gave  at  the 
second  reference.  The  whole  of  'East  Jjon- 
don,'  except  the  index,  was  put  into  type  in 
America  to  secure  copyright  tnere.  and  stereo- 
type casts  of  the  pages  were  sent  hither  to  be 
printed  off  for  tne  English  edition.  Neces- 
sarily, therefore,  every  letter,  point,  and  type- 
blemish  of  the  American  edition  have  been 
reproduced  with  photographic  fidelity  in  the 
English  one.  Our  printers  are  wont  to 
announce  the  fact  when  works  are  thus 
printed,  but  in  this  instance  the  caution  was 
inadvertently  omitted;  otherwise  the  remark 
in  your  critiaue  of  the  book  (ante,  p.  259), 
"  We  find  it  aifficult  to  resist  the  conclusion 
that  it  was  originally  designed  for  an  American 
public,"  would  have  been  needless.  This 
method  of  printing  is  less  costly  than  re- 
setting, in  which  process  the  English  ortho- 
graphy could,  and  of  course  would,  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  Transatlantic.      F.  Adams. 

Robert  Johnson,   Sheriff    of    London, 
1617  (9"»  S.  viL  228,  313).— If,  as  W.  L  R,V. 
supposes,  AideTmaxv  3ci^Tk^u»w  t^sv^^  Vsn.  ^^ 
parish  oi  St.^at^  ^\.t«A.lot^,^.KiHi^^\CwsSSs^^ 


414 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9*s.vilmat25,i«l 


perhaps  the  following  inscription,  taken  from 
a  tablet  on  the  outside  south  wall  of  Stepney 
Church,  may  refer  to  a  member  of  the  same 
family  :— 

Here  Iveth  interred  the 

body  of  TnomaB  lobnson  Ian' 

Esq'  Son  of  Thomas  lohnaon 

of  Milend  Esq'  &  Grandson 

of  Cap^  Ekiward  lohnson 

late  of  Low  La^ton  Gen' 

he  departed  this  life  on 

the  14^  of  October  16S9 

aged  25  years. 

John  T.  Page. 
West  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 


Cbosse  Hall  (9**»  S.  vii.  309).— In  1687  one 
of  the  deputy-lieutenants  of  the  county 
ordered  the  justices  of  peace  to  send  the 
armour  from  *'  Croshall  ^  to  certain  specified 
towns.  The  Crosse  Hall  referred  to  was  the 
seat  of  Sir  James  Stanley  and  was  situate  in 
the  parish  of  Ormskirk. 

Henry  Fishwick. 

Funeral  Cards  (9"»S.  vii.  88, 171,  291,  332). 
—The  Scots  Magazme^  April,  1752,  has  the 
following  note  to  the  intimation  of  the  death 
of  Sir  John  Schaw,  of  Qreenock  :— 

"  Hew  Dalrymple,  of  Drum  more,  Esquire,  one  of 
the  Senators  of  the  College  of  Justice,  Sir  John's 
brother-in-law,  to  avoid  mistakes  which  probably 
miffht  happen  in  giving  particular  notice  to  the 
numerous  relations  of  the  deceased  and  of  his 
widow,  takes  this  method  of  acquainting  them  of 
their  friend's  death.** 

An  editorial  note  follows  to  the  effect  that  it 
is  hoped  this  example 

"will  add  weight  to  the  request  we  have  often 
made,  and  which  has  been  frequently  complied 
with  — that  persons  concerned  would  send  us 
accounts  of  the  deaths,  &c.,  which  happen  through- 
out Scotland." 

The  next  volume  contains  a  letter  from  a 
correspondent  advocating  the  above  custom, 
in  which  the  writer  says  :— 

"  When  a  {lerson  of  any  consideration  dies  a  note 
is  commonly  inserted  in  the  newspapers,  somewhat 
resembling  a  message  card,  as  a  notification  to  the 
relations.  These  cards  are  of  use,  but  they  are 
frequently  written  in  a  slovenly  manner." 

J.  G.  Wallace-James,  M.B. 
Haddington. 

The  answer  to  Mr.  Page's  question  at  the 
last  reference  seems  to  be  that  James  Barry. 
Esq.,  of  St.  Mary  le  Bone  parish,  was  buried 
in  St.  Paul's  Cathedral  on  14  March,  1806. 
See  the  cathedral  registers  (Harl.  Soc.  publ., 
Reg.  Section,  1899),  p.  186,  where  there  is  an 
obvious  misprint  in  the  foot-note  as  to  the 
date  of  his  death.  He  seems  to  have  died  on 
2S  Februarff  1806.  See  Gentlem/m'^  Mowiazitic, 
vol  Ixxvi.  part  L  p.  286.  H,  C. 


•Paddle  your  own  Canoe'  (9*^  S.  vi.  450; 
vii.  53).— Mr.  Alfred  Chas.  Jonas  asserts  that 
"  this  song  was  written  and  sung  by  Harry 
Clifton,  music  arranged  by  M.  Uobson,  and 
was  very  popular  about  thirty-four  years 
ago."  So  far  as  the  authorship  is  concerned, 
this  statement  is  at  variance  with  the  sub- 
stance of  a  letter  received  by  me  three  years 
ago  from  Dr.  Edward  P.  Philpots,  who 
wrote: — 

"  I  knew  Harry  Clifton  very  welL  I  remember 
going  to  meet  him  one  day  when  he  arrived  at  the 
railway  station  in  Aberdeen  from  Glasgow,  he 
having  been  engaged  to  sing  at  one  of  the  concerts 
which  were  in  those  days  held  in  the  Music  Hall  at 
the  top  of  Union  Street.  He  was  putting  up  at  the 
Freemasons'  Tavern  in  the  Netherkirkgate,  and 
thither  we  repaired.  He  was  very  tired,  and  asked 
for  some  tea.  While  taking  it  he  said  to  me,  '  I 
bought  a  book  of  jokes  at  the  station  to  read  as  I 
travelled,  and  in  it  I  found  what  I  think  is  a  very 

Kod  subject  for  a  song.  Read  it.'  I  read :  *  Ad 
dian  in  his  canoe  was  asked  bv  a  man  who  was 
passing  by  the  side  of  the  river,  ^'^Sambo,  how  is  it 
that  you  alwajrs  look  so  happy,  when  other  niggen 
look  so  sad  in  these  unhappy  days  ?"  and  his  reply 
was,  "Massa,  you  see  I  always  paddle  mv  own 
canoe." '  Clifton  then  said,  '  I  have  an  air  for  it : 
it  is  one  I  thought  of  putting  to  another  song,  but  I 
think  this  is  a  prettier  idea' ;  and  he  hummed  it 
I  said,  '  Go  on  with  your  tea,  and  don't  talk,  and  I 
will  write  a  soUg  with  this  refrain.*  This  I  did,  and 
what  I  wrote,  with  certain  alterations  by  CliftoiL 
which  I  need  not  go  into,  formed  the  song  called 
*  Paddle  vour  own  Canoe.'  After  this  I  went  t4> 
Greenland,  and  was  away  nearly  two  years.  Wheo 
I  had  landed  at  Peterhead,  as  I  was  walkinc  ap  to 
the  hotel  at  night,  I  heard  a  small  boy,  walking  ui 
the  gutter,  singing,  *  Love  your  neighbour,  Ac,  sc'; 
and  I  stopped  him  and  said.  '  Wnat  song  is  that 
you're  singmg,  laddie?'  and  he  replied,  *Of  coone 
ye  dinna  ken.  of  coorse  not,  dinna  ken  **  Paddle  yw 
ain  Canoe  " !  I  knew  it  had  taken  on.  After  Uiis 
I  again  met  Harry  Clifton,  and  he  told  me  that  the 
song  had  remained  a  dead  letter  for  months  oo  the 
publisher's  hands,  and  that  it  suddenly  rushed  into 
notoriety.  He  got  little  or  nothing  tor  the  soog, 
and  1  got  less." 


Mr.  Philpots  graduated  in  medicine  a( 
Aberdeen  in  1868.  In  March,  1866,  while 
still  a  student,  he  sailed  from  Peterhead  in 
the  whaler  Queen,  which  spent  upwards  of 
nineteen  months  in  the  Arctic  reffionsi  chiefly 
in  Bethune  Bay,  in  the  neighoournood  ot 
Cape  Horsburgh,  76'  N.  lat.,  80'  W.  long. 
He  was  assiduous  in  exploring  the  adjacent 
shores  and  in  making  botanical  collections 
and  proved  that  the  land  previously  bdieted 
to  be  a  peninsula  was  in  reality  an  island, 
the  eastmost  point  of  which  is  Cape  Hon- 
burgh.  This  land  is  now  marked  on  mapsts 
"Philpots  Island.''  A  full  and  intereeling 
account  of  this  voyage,  oontribated  bj  Mr* 
\  ?Vv\l\vots  to  the  PeUrkead  SerUimeL  was  after 
\  ^^A'^  T^^Y«x\«^  Vyt  ^wi>A»  circmlalion    See 


»»8.vilmat25.wolj      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


415 


aUo  articles  in  Proctidinffs  of  the  Royal 
Geographical  Society,  vol  xiii.  p,  373»  and 
J&uTnal  of  the  Linnean  Society,  vol,  xi.  p*  32, 
Dr.  Phil  pots  has*  in  recent  veara^  under  the 
pseudonym  **  Oliver  Eaton /'^  written  several 
works  of  fiction,  'The  B^^on  Hydro,' '  Results 
of  Waiting/  kt.  He  contributed  a  sketch  of 
Prof.  Alexander  Harvey  to  Aurora  Bor&iiu 
Acftdeniim.  P.  J.  AKnKEsoN. 

Joseph  Boulmiee  (9*^  S.  vii,  348),— There 
is  no  mention,  either  in  Lorenz  or  the  cata- 
log^ne  of  the  Bib.  Nat.,  of  any  work  by  thin 
writer  more  recent  than  *  Villa oellea '  (1878). 
He  is  probably  dead,  as  he  was  born  in  1821, 
but  I  have  not  been  able  to  find  any  record 
of  hi«  death.  Liseux,  the  publisher  who 
brought  out  *  Villanelles,'  i^  dead,  and  the 
business  no  longer  exists,  so  no  inquiries 
can  be  made  in  that  quarter, 

RoBEET  B.  Douglas. 
^  Hue  Alfred  Stevens,  Paris. 

Brececekbtdge  (9**^  S.  vii.  247,  313).— Mr" 
Bbeckej^bidgb  is  advised  at  the  last  reference 
to  consult  the  registers  and  records  of  the 
parish  of  Strathavon  to  find  the  origin  of  his 
natoilv,   because  in  that  parish  is   a  place 
callea  Breckenridge  or  Brackenridge,  whence 
that  surname  probably  is  derived.    But  is 
there  any  probabilitv  of  so  finding  the  infor- 
mation required  ?    Unless  the  family  owned 
the  land  of  Brae  ken  ridge,  they  would  per- 
haps only  receive  the  name  when  they  left 
it  as  indicating  their  origin.    Scotts  did  not 
set  their  name  till  they  came  in  contact  with 
English ;  and  to  this  day  Scott  is  a  far  more 
frequent  snrnatno  than  Inglia,  partly  becauiie 
more  Scots  left  Scotland  to  go  to  England 
than  Englishmen  left  England  to  seek  their 
fortune    in    Scotland,      It  is   true  that   in 
many  districts  of   Scotland    the    tenant  is 
habitnally  known  to  hia  neighbours  b^  the 
name  of  his  farm  ;  but  that  very  fact  is  apt 
to  mislead  one  in  tracing  genealogies,  because 
successive  occupants,  irrespectively  of  their 
sarnames   or   origin,  receive  in   turn   their 
territorial  designation  from  the  land   they 
hold.     I  have  in  mind  one  of  my  own  farms 
named    Oarrarie,  where  I  have  had    three 
successive  tenants  bearing  respectively  the 
names   of   Brown,  Jolly,  ^nd   Smith,    The 
first  two  were  known,  the  third  is  now  known, 
as  **  Garrarie." 

It  so  happens  that  in  the  same  district^ 
Qalloway,  to  wit— there  are  two  farms  which 
bear  a  name  the  exact  equivalent  in  Gaelic 
to  Brackenridge,  namely  j^  Drumrannie  and 
Drumrennie,  both  of  which  may  be  confi- 
dently interpreted  drui'm  raithne^  the  bracken 
or  fem   riaga    There  are  $^m  ^rma  inj 


Galloway  called  Breconside  (spelt  in  Pontes 
'Survey,' c  1000,  Brakansyde)  and  Breckeni- 
hill  Herbert  Maxwblu 

Perhaps  the  following  may  be  of  interest 
or  use  to  Mr.  Bheckknbidue.  The  earliest 
note  I  have  of  the  name  in  connexion  with 
Ayrshire  is  from  'The  Tailors' Record  Book' 
of  Kilmarnock,  from  which  I  extract  the 
following  :— 

**  May  5,  1716.  The  aed  dny  John  Braeken ridge 
entred  and  payed  twintio  mcLrkH  acott  munie  as  s,ti 
oat«n  touts,*  bcforjohn  Duncanson  box  master,  James 
Tanihil,  Janies  Thomson,  Atexatider  Tonihjll,  in 
Thomas  Walkers  bous,  bonetmaker." 

In  the  first  Kilmarnock  Directory,  1846, 
two  of  the  name  appear,  one  a  watchmaker, 
the  other  a  rug  manufacturer.  I  think  the 
name  is  now  extinct  in  Kilmarnock,  but  I 
could  make  inquiries  if  needed. 

Alfred  Cha[^.  Jonas. 

The  family  of  Bi'ecfcenridge  in  question 
most  probably  came  from  the  coast  of  Car  rick. 
Many  of  the  name  lived  in  the  pansh  of 
Kirkoswttid,  and  the  tombstones  of  several 
are  to  be  seen  in  the  graveyard  surrounding 
the  old  church-  Like  others,  they  joined  in 
smuggling,  which  for  many  a  day  was  the 
predominant  industry  in  that  part  of  the 
country.  One  of  them,  who  had  prospered 
by  the  trade,  occupied  the  farm  of  Dow  hill, 
nearly  oppoi^ibe  Ailsa  Craig.  Indulgent  to 
his  wife,  and  at  a  loss  how  to  bestow  his 
wealth,  he  hung  a  gold  watch  on  each  side 
of  the  deep  hign-backed  easy-chair  that  she 
occupied,  so  that  whichever  way  she  turned 
she  conld  rc^d  the  hour.  Davtd  Murray. 
Gla.8gow. 

Governor  Haykes*s  Granofathbr  (9"'  S. 
\n.  m,  515;  vii.  172).— That  the  Governoi's 
father  was  John  Haynes,  of  Old  Hold,  in 
Essex  (d.  180G),  is  well  known  ;  hence  the 
Governor  couM  not  have  been  the  son  of 
George  Haynes,  of  Much  Had  ham.  In  Herts  ; 
but  this  George  might  readily  have  been  the 
father  of  the  said  John  of  Old  Hold,  and  so 
gmiidfutker  to  the  Governor.  The  probability 
of  this  supposition— first  suggested  by  the 
fact  that  the  said  George  left,  by  will  proved 
in  1584,  land  in  said  Had  ham  to  hi8  '*son 
John,"  and  that  John  of  Old  Hold,  the 
Governor's  known  father,  died  seised  of  the 
property  called  "  Haynes  at  the  Mill/'  situate 
in  Had  nam,  and  that  be  and  members  of 
his  family  are  buried  in  the  same  parish,  thus 
tending  to  show  that   it  was  their  native 

*  This  provcw  he  w^  notn  native  of  Kilmarnock, 
A  freeman  of  tho  town  required  to  pay  four  pouixdi 
Scots  according  to  v^^^^^^^^V^  ^  '^^  ^'Wife  'tucfiCTsi 
Charter;  d*i«d  "^  ^i&tiTawrSi  WM. 


416 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [»*  s.  vn.  may  25.  wol 


place^  and  that  the  mid  John  of  Old  Hold 
was  indeed  th©  Barae  person  us  John  the  son 
of  George  above  fnentioned — being  true  hi 
now  greatly  increased  by  the  information 
lately  received  from  Mr.  C.  R.  Haikes, 
namely,  that  Nicholas  Havnes,  of  Hackney 
(died  lu  1593,  m  Mk.  C,  R  Cbouch  states), 
left  but  one  aon  (Richard),  who  in  his  turn 
left  hilt  one  daughter,  thus  putting  Nicholaa, 
an  grandfather  to  the  Governor,  entii*ely  out 
of  the  queHtion. 

Cannot  some  one  in  England  prove  or  dis- 
prove the  supposition  as  to  George  t 

Thanking  ray  cor  respondents,  I  will  add 
that  their  infornmtion  has  proved  to  be  a 
valuable  supplement  to  the  body  of  matter 
relative  to  the  HayneB  family  contained  in 
'The  New  England  Hisfcorical  and  Genea- 
loRicai  Register  ^^matber  that  should  be  con- 
.Hulted  by  Englishmen  as  well  as  Americans 
interests  in  that  familj^'s  history. 

P.  S,  E  COKHKB. 

Kowlajtdaville,  M&ryland. 

Anulo-Hebrew  Slang:  **Kybo3h"  (9'**  S. 
fii.  188, 276)."!  have  fi-equently  heard  the  ex- 
pression *'lt's  all  sky-boish"(nat  "kybosh"), 
as  meaning  "It's  all  nonsense^  (or  rubbish), 
1  am,  however  J  acquainted  with  the  use  of 
**  kyiiosh  "  in  a  dimrent  sense ;  thus  to  **  put 
the  kybosh  on  "  a  person  is^  as  I  have  always 
understood,  to  attempt  to  ** gammon"  or 
deceive  one  in  the  way  of  trade  by  word  of 
mouth.  W,  I.  R.  V, 

Danteiana  (9^*^  S,  viL  201,  S16).-I  am 
obliged  to  Mr-  Yardlev  and  Ma.  Hopk  for 
their  courteous  strictures  on  two  points  in 
my  article  at  the  first  reference*  With  equal 
courteny  let  rae  reply  to  both,  L  Mr.  Yard- 
lev  credits  me  witn  implying  rather  more 
than  I  intended.  In  saying  that  Dante  and 
Shakespeare  and  Chaucer  made  Theseus  a  d  uke 
( =^  dwr)  in  the  sense  of  leader^  I  by  no  means 
wished  to  question  the  fact  since  adduced  by 
Mr.  Yardley  that  there  were  several  Dukes 
of  Athens  in  the  Middle  Ages,  My  conten- 
tion was  limited  to  the  statement  just  re- 
peated. "  Dante  makes  Theseus  Duke  of 
Athens,  as  did  also  Shakespeare,"  wrote 
Tomlinson,  It  must  be  remembered  that 
Theseus  was  the  hero  of  Athenian  legend, 
renowned  for  his  leadership  in  his  wars  with 
the  Anias^ons,  in  addition  to  his  exploit  with 
the  Minotaur.  His  attributed  duKedom  is 
therefore  as  much  poetical  fiction  as  his 
personality.  But  I  am  still  of  opinion  that 
the  poets  dubbed  him  duke  in  the  meaning 
of  leader,  com  mangier,  general.  I  am  quite 
Aware^  however,  that  there  wag  &  ^oodX-^^  \me 


was  strangled  by  Mahomet  IL,  but  this  in 
no  manner  invalidates  my  surmise  anent 
Dante's  Ducad'Atene.  2.  Mr.  Hope  quotes 
Mr.  Paget  Toy n bee  as  counter-evidence  to  the 
assumed  visit  of  Dante  to  Oxford.  There  ia 
a  wide  gulf  fixed  between  the  "extremely 
doubtf uF^  of  Mr.  Toynbee  and  the ''  probable^ 
of  Mr  Gladstone  and  Dean  Plumptre,  I 
prefer  probability  to  extreme  doubt. 

J,  B.  McGovKEN. 
St.  St«pheii*s  Rectory.  C.-oa-M.,  Maiiche<st«r. 

It  may  be  worth  while  to  correct  a  slight 
inaccumcy  in  my  letter.  The  Duke  of  Athens, 
father  of  the  (Nonstable  of  France,  was  not 
driven  out  of  Greece.  He  was  killed  in  battle 
there,  and  his  family  and  his  followers  were 
expelled.  The  first  duke  flourished  about  the 
beginning  of  the  thirteenth  century,  and 
there  were  at  least  five  dukea  before  the  Con- 
stable, So  it  is  clear  that  the  title  exbted 
in  the  time  of  Dante  and  before  his  birth, 

E.  Yaedle¥. 

Dkfkhpir  of  the  Faith  (!■*  8.iL44i,4&I : 

iii.  9,  S8,  94,  157).— Mr,  S.  Kitehin.  a  frieiwi 
and  neighbour  of  mine*,  has  been  giving  hu 
attention  to  the  royal  title  of  "Fiaei  Defen- 
sor." He  contends  tliat  the  title  was  absolutely 
abolished  by  I  and  2  Philip  and  Mary,  ana 
was  never  legally  revived,  I  referred  him  to 
a  very  interesting  contribution  on  the  sub- 
ject by  a  famous  antiquary  of  his  day,  Mfi. 
W.  SiDNEV  GrnaoEf,  of  Newcastle,  which 
appears  in  *  N.  6c  Q./  1"*^  8.  ii,  481,  and  he  hu 
sent  the  following  letter  to  the  ^""^pm^ 
Lmdef\  which  appears  in  the  issue  of  thil 
paper  for  20  Ma  re  I  l  It  seems  desirable  thai 
the  question  should  again  be  argued  iti  the 
pagesof  ^N.ifeQ.' 

Fipnt  Dkfkksoh. 

8iii,--Aa  ft  queaiioQ  mm  asked  last  night  in  Ibe 
HouAe  of  Commons  hy  Mr,  WtUi»m  Red  mood  tt- 
siiecting  the  use  of  the  above  title  an  tlie  new^  coin* 
age^  a  brief  note  on  the  subject  may  be  of  inter^t 
to  yotir  readera.  The  title  of  '*  I>ef©nd«r  of  llw 
Faith"  was  ben  to  wed  on  Henry  VIIL  by  Poi« 
LiKj  X.,and  was  cunwlled  by  Paul  HI.  when  H*mj 
renounced  the  s^ut^remacv  of  the  Pope  in  EimUna, 
The  King*  much  Annoyed  bv  th«  Pof»«  withdravii^j; 
the  title,  t-nuaed  an  Act  of  f'arhiknient  to  be  pjiswo, 
.S5  Henry  Vtll.  c.  S^  which  annexed  to  the  Crown 
of  England  for  ever  th©  Btyle  of  '^^unreme  Hewl' 
of  the  Uhttrch  of  England  wd\d  "  Deiend«r  of  tie 
Faith."  The  beat  aiitfioritieH,  mich  as  the  '  Encycifr 
pj^dia  BHtannk'a^  and  *  Cbamhers'H  Knc^ydojiaiaUi' 
state  that  it  is  under  the  a  bo  \'e<  mentioned  Aet  t^ 
the  title  of  ^^  Fidei  Defensor  **  has  ever  since  bno 
used  by  t  he  sovereigns  of  this  country.  Th^t  itil«- 
ment  is  not  correct. 

The  Act  in  question  was  only  in  foroe  fcir  alerM 
yearSp  It  waa  repealed  by  1  and  2  Philip  luidMufi 
3t  sec,  iJO,  in  the  followinf  words  :—Tbs  ''A^ 


Aware,  tiowemr,  that  them  was  &  %qo^\-^  VtiveV  ^^^^  ^\^^  t%.\v^t%Ucjn  of  the  King^s  Majesty^!  stjJ* 
Qfliistoric  Puices  of  Athensj  tbe  \m%  ol  ^Wm\  a'^titV  \v«^tfeVQi>^\»  ic«v»;2a^  it\uttmt«t  void,  »^ 


9»8.vu.mat2s.i9oi.j      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


417 


of  none  effect."  The  title  of  "Defender  of  the 
Faith  "ha*  not  hueu  revived  m  any  Engiiah  Act. 
Mr.  Jiidney  Gibspiij  of  Newcastle,  stated  in  NotEn 
and  Oitrric.il  that  the  Act  of  Kin^  Henry  was  revived 
by  Elizabeth,  t.  t,  but  that  is  a  mistake.  The 
iSth  Recti  on  of  that  Act  enacted  that  no  statutes 
were  revived  except  those  specially  mentioned. 
The  3;"V  Henry  is  not  mentioned.  If  the  Act  had 
been  revived  Queen  Elizabeth  would  have  claimed 
her  father^s  atyle  of  "  Sunreme  Head."'  The  condi^ 
lion  of  the  timea  waa  auch  that  she  (\'n\  not  dare  to 
reaanio  that  title.  But^  notwit  hatandinB  the  repeal 
of  the  statute  which  €onferr&d  the  title,  it  la 
intereatine  to  note  that  the  title  of  "  Defender  of 
the  Faith    has  never  been  dropped. 

It  was  cuatoinary  in  those  old  times  to  print  the 
whole  of  the  Acts  of  a  aaBBion  in  one  coutinuoua 
roll,  and  preface  them  with  the  full  styles  and  titles 
of  the  iCmg.  Htran^e  as  it  may  appear,  the  title 
cro|»  uj)  in  the  preface  to  the  Acts  of  the  very 
session  in  which  the  Act  of  Kinf?  Henry  was 
retJ*jaled.  Ring  Philip  and  Queen  Mary  are  styled 
**  Defeodera  of  the  Faith."  The  nwnraptioii  of  the 
title,  immediately  after  Its  repeal  by  an  EugllBb 
statute,  and  its  eontinurmp  une  ever  after,  seem  to 
show  that  the  Pope's  l>ar  to  the  use  of  the  title  was 
one  of  the  " '  cenfluree  Judgment*,  and  pains  "  referred 
to,  and  removed,  by  the  Lord  Cardinal  Pole  when 
he  pronounced  the  notable  absolution  over  the 
kneelin*f  Kitifft  Queen,  and  entire  Parliament:  for 
which  see  the  Act  of  Philip  and  Mary  atxjve 
m  en  t  i  oned.  —  I  am ,  Ac. ,  ts,  K. 

Gosforth,  Mar^h  19.  190L 

RlCHD.   WELmRD, 

Coco  DB    MeR    or    DotTBLB    CoCO-NUT  (9*^^ 

S,  vii.  349),— *  Me  lui  offris  tine  pit'jce  de  coco 
mariD  avec  son  fruit,  ponr  ftugmenter  aa 
eoUection  de  grained ;  et  il  me  fit  \e  pi&imt 
de  I'accepter"  (Bernardin  de  Saint  Pierre, 
'  Esiiai  Mir  J.  J.  Rous-seau^). 

*Thft  I^t  New  Thiii^'  in  the  Plant  World/ 
in  Once  a  Week,  No,  311,  10  June,  1865, 
vol.  xii,  pp.  69;J-G,  is  an  gh^^  on  thia  tree, 
with  two  woodcuU,  and  including  Home  of 
the  mythn  concerning  it  The  twentieth 
century  is  rather  late  to  be  taking  the  atory 
of  the  Fall  literally.  Thirty  or  forty  years 
ago  I  used  to  ^ee  a  pamphlet  on  *  Salt  the 
Forbidden  Fruit  and  the  Source  of  All  Evil,* 
I  sihould  rather  incline  to  that  view.  Who 
was  the  author  1  Thomas  J,  Jeaees. 

Tower  House,  New  Hampton. 

Somo  memoranda  of  "  Chinese  "  Gordon  on 
the  identity  of  the  forbidden  fruit  with  the 
oooo  de  mer  are  given  in  facaimile,  with  com- 
ments by  that  excellent  botanist  Mr.  James 
Britten,  F.L,S.,  in  the  Universal  Beviei^  for 
188fi  (vol.  ii.  p.  567). 

William  E.  A,  Axon. 

Towns  which  have  chanobd  thkib  Sirica 
(»*  S.  vil  206, 273,359).— There  should,  I  think, 
he  instances  of  these  in  Central  America, 
South  America^  and  other  regions  where 
Volcanoes  are  sctiive^    Thus  new  Guatemala 


ha^  superseded  old  Guatemala,  which  was 
dastroyed  by  an  eruption  in  1774,  and  old 
Guatemala  in  ita  turn  had  taken  the  place  of 
an  ancient  town  which  had  been  carried 
away  by  an  inundation.    T.  1*.  Armstrong. 

^*MoKNiNG  Glory  ^^(9*^  S.  vii,  209,  2&2),^ 
The  following,  taken  from  the  *  New  Ameri- 
can Gardener,^  by  Thomas  G,  Fessanden, 
etlitor  of  the  iVew  Englaitd  Farmer  (Boston, 
1833),  will,  I  think,  answer  C.  0.  B,'s  que^- 
fcion : — 

"CciNVOLVtTLUS.  —  Many  species  —  annual.  —  Con- 
mi  mdm  rnc^  is  commonly  called  inorninK  fflory. 
It  is  a  vine,  and  a  great  runner  — ujany  colon rs, 
Convoli^uiiut  mint^t  eaUed  beauty  of  the  night, 
because  it  bloomi  at  evening— many  colours." 

Knowleb* 

The  *' Crown"  bkhikd  the  Royaj.  Ex- 
change (9^^  S.  vii.  309).— The  "Crown"  in 
Thread  needle  Street  was  one  of  the  mout 
famous  of  a  large  group  of  taverna  and 
coftee-houHes  situated  in  the  heart  of  the 
Uit:y%  immediately  round  'Hhe  'Change,'* 
during  the  first  half  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury. It  was  a  meeting 'place  for  every 
conceivable  occasion :  meetings  of  creditors^ 
committee  meetinga  of  "  the  Merchants  and 
Traders  of  this  City  to  consider  a  pro[>er 
Application  for  the  Security  of  the  Trade 
and  Navigation  of  these  Kingdon^s"  {Dalhf 
AdrK^,  22  December,  1742) ;  meetings  of  the 
proprietors  of  the  South  Sea  Company,  at 
one  of  which  King  George  was  "let  in  *  for 
stock  to  the  value  of  10,000^-  (  Wetkhf  Joui-nul, 
I  February,  171B);  of  **  the  Gentlemen,  Cler^iy, 
and  Freeholders  of  Surry,  residing  in  Lon- 
don," in  the  el^tioneering  interest  of  George 
WoodrofFe,  Esq.,  *'to  promote  a  Parliament- 
ary Enquirv  into  Publick  Offences"  (Paily 
Adv,^  20  March,  1742),  &c.  Owing  to  the 
Bank  of  England —part  of  whose  present 
chief  entrance  in  Thread  needle  Street  occu* 
pie^  its  site  —  possessing  "a  lease  of  the 
Crown  for  about  fifteen  years  (we  hear  thej 
intend  to  fit  it  up  for  a  Transfer  Office),"  it 
escaped  destruction  when  in  1732  the  direc- 
tors "  built  a  house  on  their  estate  in  Thread- 
needle  Street "  {Lfmd.  Bvt.  Post,  26  February, 
1732).  In  Burn's  *  Beaufoy  Tokens '  two  land- 
lords are  mentioned.  On  the  Lord's  Day  Pepys 
went  to  Mr.  Williamson *s  at  the  '*Ci'own  in 
quest  of  Home  members  of  the  Royal  Society. 
After  being  burnt  down  in  the  Great  Fire  it 
was  rebuilt  and  occupied  by  Mr.  Blagrove 
from  the  "Old  King^s  Head"  in  New  Fish 
Street.  A  third  landlord  in  mentioned  in  the 
Si.  James's  E^mting  PoU  of  14  Seio^TK^^^^ 
1736.  under  mcumiitaiticft^  NaV\^  ^i^^xx  ^3wek 


418 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (•*  s.  vil  biat  25.  iwi. 


Hawkins  speaks  when  he  aayg  that  "  it  was 
not  unusual  to  draw  a  butt  of  mountain,  con- 
taining ont;  hundred  and  twenty  gills,  in  a 
tnoraing  "  :— 

"On  Satarday  lut  the  Vorme  of  Mr,  James 
HarnBf  M&ater  of  the  Crown-Tavern  in  Threi^d' 
noiddle  Street,  after  hAviDg  lain  in  State,  abotit 
Four  in  the  Afternoon  was  earned  out  of  Town, 
ami  iijt«rr*rl  at  Barkinj:  in  Es^ex :  he  died  a 
Batt^heU>r»  and  by  hin  Will  Apiiointed  his  Brother 
and  Sinter  to  be  his  Execiitora,  and  to  hia  Servant* 
he  be*[ueath'd  for  Mourning,  vias.,  to  I  he  Bar- 
Keeiier  W.^  the  head  Cook  10/.,  the  nnder  Cook 
7/.,  the  OUar-Miin  10/.,  three  head  Drawers  W. 
each^  three  nnder  Drawers  7/*  each,  the  iServant 
Maiaa  5/.  each,  two  Porter*  5^.  each,  the  Oyster- 
Woman  at  the  Gate  5/.,  and  the  Laundry- VVoman 
twg  Guineas." 

J.   HOLDEN    MacMichAKU 

See  *01d  London  Taverns/ by  Ed,  Callow 
(London,  Downey  &  Co.,  les©),  P-  *^2. 

Hawii^k. 


the  quotation  from  the  novel  of  B.  P^rei 
GaldAs  published  in  my  letter  under  the 
above  heading.  The  dictionary  of  the  Spanish 
Acatlemy  also  fails  to  explain  the  phrase,  as 
did  several  Spanisii  friends  to  whom  I  shuwed 
it.  Prof,  L  Bywater,  who  has  travelled  a 
good  deal  m  Spain,  thinks  it  is  an  imitation 
of  the  German  **unt6r  %ner  Augen=seal  a 
seuU  en  tt*te  a-t*^te,"  or  fhe  Italian  "a  quatro 
oechi^tute-a-tete.  Thus  the  novelist  meant 
to  say  that  the  dog  came  out  ''to  keep  the 
cat  company/' **  to  make  two  with  him."  I 
should  have  recognized  itM  raeaningin  German 
or  Italian,  but  it  escaped  me  in  tlie  Castilian, 
partly,  no  donbt^  because  the  very  next 
words  do  describe  the  dog*s  appearance, 
'*  negro  y  con  las  patas  amarillaa."  **Par- 
simonia"  appears  to  be  used  in  the  less  usual 
sense  of  **  circumspection  *'  in  the  passage  in 
question.  K  S.  DodqsoN. 


Thi«  appears  to  have  been  the  "  Crowne " 
in  Threaclneedle  Street,  mentioned  in  a  MS. 
list  of  taverns  in  Lonaon  and  Westminster 
and  ten  miles  round  London,  1690-8^  in  my 
possession.  W.  L  ii  Y. 

Lusus  Natur,^^  (9***  S.  vii,  288),— A  nodule 
of  Kentish  flinty  cnt  into  three  slices,  each 
of  which  Hhowa  a  remarkable  resemblance  to 
the  human  head,  is  in  the  Edinburgh  Museum 
of  Science  and  Art.  It  is  described  in  the 
Kdinhurgk  Jminml  of  Natural  Hutorii^  con- 
ducted by  Capt.  Thomas  Brown,  r>rea  1836. 

Walter  Clark, 

Edinhnrgh  Museum. 

"Gaht"  {P-^  S.  vii,  308).— There  is  a  barony 
of  Prendergest  in  Berwickshire  which  gave 
name  to  a  family.  The  Prendergests  were 
lib**ral  donors  to  the  raonasterv  of  C'Ol ding- 
ham  in  the  early  nart  of  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury. The  appenaix  to  Raine's  'North  Dur- 
ham' contains  many  charters  and  deeds 
which  give  much  information  as  to  this 
family.  J.  G,  Wall  ace- James,  M.B. 

MaodinE^on. 

Mr,  F!  a  veil  Edmunds  gives  the  derivation 
of  Prendergast  from  the  British  words 
prtn^  a  tree,  d^r  fmm  dwr,  water,  and  gasi 
from  gwt^t^  an  inn  or  lodging ;  i",e.,  the  inn 
by  the  tree  near  the  water, 

John  Radcuffe, 

English  Paesimonv  and  the  Cat  (9^^  S. 
vi,  aoet).— In  the  *  CastiJian  Dictionary  *  of 
D,  Hoque  Barcia  (Madrid,  1831}  one  Hnds 
"  Cuatro  Qjo^  nombre  que  da  comunmente  el 
vvilgo  a   tas  personas  que  traen   anteojos/' 


^„  JTit      J      .^  t  *  Ji      n  \.    t       \l     eon  nan   a  ueinury   w 

aurf    mis  ven  cuatro  o]oa  quedc^  Wl  lacitU^^^^^^^v^Ui^  of  a  v  _...  ..   _ 


PiicellsuMtts, 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  &c 

A  Gtrnti^r  Efmnofofjieal  Dktw^^aru  &f  iht  Engli^ 
Langiiogt.  By  the  Rev.  Walter  W.  Skeat,  UtuD. 
(OKford,  Clarendoo  Preaa.) 
The  first  edition  of  Prof.  Skait's  'ConciBe  Etyino- 
loffical  Dictionary '  saw  the  liuht  in  18t2,  the  yeif 
which  witne«iKid  also  the  &|>|>earanoe  of  bit  *  Et3nD0- 
lof^ical  Dictionary.*     It  has  Bince  piiHsed  Ihroogb 
variuui  editiona,  each  of  which  has  contained  cor 
reel  ion  8  and  additions.  In  view  of  th*  contribatiooi 
recently  made  to  the  study  of  Indo-Germanic  pbiw- 
iogy,   the  adoption  of   "inoi-e  exact  methodt  of 
analysing  phonetic  ohanjEeii.  and    the  ELp^K^anoee 
of  works  Buch  as  Kluge's  *  Etyraolo^cal  Diotiooary 
of  German/  Franck^a  *  Etymolojpfal  Diotk>nii7« 
Dutoh/  Godefro/s  *  DicHonary  of  Old  FrencV^» 
a  much  clearer  and  more  exact  view  of  the  scicoce 
of  cam|iarat  t  ve  iih  tlol  o jrv  h  as  l>ecii  ohtai  ned .  '*  Tho» 
considerationfl  nave  lea  the  profesactr  to  tJi*  ooo* 
cluBjoii  that  the  time  for  pmrtialeniendationiaoftr. 
He  h&B  acesordinKly  written  the  work    Ltri^U  from 
be^^nnin^  to  end.  making  improv  tnm-i]  t 
every  article,  and  inlroducing  intoth* 
work  word**  which  have  hitherto  be-*.  > 
oonstvutly  iiierBasjing  auppleuient-      1  ' 
these  laboura  has  been  that  we  have  t>i  t 
a  new  edition  than  a  new  book.*'    1  i 
new  edition  haa  been  collated  throng  I  lu         ^    ^  ^ 
'Century  Dictionary »' *^*1  ^'i^h  lb«  *  New  ISnpiib 
Dictionary  on  Hiatorical  Priuciides^'  so  far,  pnj 
tically,  as  it  has  progressed*     One  *-y-  i  .■  wluck 
has  now  been  adopted  will  be  of  high*  mntay 

to  the  worker.  Ahandooing  the  endea v  i,u  e  ^/  croM* 
references  to  arrange  derivative  word§  nndara 
more  primitive  form,  a  i^urely  alphabetical  ordfr 
liaa  now  for  the  Hrflt  time  Weti  cmtiloyed-  w 
former  editions  <x-rtfe,  in-fite,  rt-Cite^  and  rg<»»-crf' 
afe  were  given  under  eii€.  This,  to  our  pinomi 
knowledge,  impeded  th«  full  use  of  the  diciioaaw. 
A  not  wholly  diasimitar  plan  adopted  by  Rioliaf^ 
son  half  A  century  earher  had  detracted  frttHlf 
work  which  at  one  timtwii* 


dmoet 
of  th« 
a  in  a 
nilt  ol 

tMtor 
JthtlM 


9»aviLMAr86,i«(n.j      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


419 


Bholar.  That  the  scheme  originally  adopted  in 
he  *  Concise  Etymological  Dictionary'  was  more 
mbitioas  than  practical  has  now  been  discovered, 
nd  an  improvement,  for  which  we  are  eratefal, 
laa  been  effected.  Those  who  purchase  the  work 
rill  do  well  to  study  the  introductory  matter, 
rhich.  though  occupying  only  half  a  dozen  pases, 
s  indispensable  in  order  fully  to  utilize  the  infer- 
nation  conveyed.  A  few  lines  on  the  ordinary 
rowel  changes  should.  Prof.  Skeat  holds,  be  learnt 
yy  heart  at  once.  Were  this  done,  and  were  the 
vork  in  the  possession  of  our  readers  generally, 
nuch  wild  and  inept  conjecture  would  be  spared, 
ind  certain  backs  would  escape  scarification  at  the 
lands  of  philologists  justly  indignant.  Among  the 
[K>int8  to  be  noted  is  the  manner  in  which  the 
iescent  of  a  word  is  traced,  as  "  Abbey  (F.— L.— 
3k.— Syriac)'*  — that  is,  a  French  word  derived 
from  Latin,  which  Latin  word  comes  from  a  Greek 
word  Syriac  in  origin.  It  is  of  course  superfluous 
to  praise  afresh  the  labours  of  Prof,  okeat,  by 
which  readers  of  'N.  A  Q.'  so  constantly  and 
happily  benefit.  As  a  scholar  and  an  authority 
be  enjoys  a  world-wide  reputation,  and  we  can 
do  no  more  than  announce  to  our  readers  the 
appearance  of  the  latest,  the  most  convenient,  and 
the  most  ser\niceable  edition  of  his  '  Concise  Dic- 
tionary '  that  has  yet  been  given  to  the  world. 

Aldermen  of  OripplegcUe  Ward  from  a.d.  1276  to 
A.  D.  1900.  By  John  James  Baddeley.  (Baddeley.) 
Mr.  Baddslby's  book  constitutes  an  acceptable 
addition  to  works  dealing  with  the  Corporation  of 
the  City  of  London.  Numerous  and  important  as 
are  recent  contributions  to  our  knowledge  of  this 
subject,  nothing  exactly  like  the  present  volume 
has  previously  tocu  attempted.  From  trustworthy 
i-ecords,  with  many  of  which  we  have  dealt,  Mr. 
Baddeley— who  is  a  deputy  for  Cripplegate  Ward 
Without  and  has  written  more  than  one  work 
illustrative  of  municipal  afibirs  and  institutions- 
has  obtained  a  list  of  the  names  of  aldermen  of 
Cripplegate  Ward,  which,  with  brief  biographies  and 
with  a  portrait  (where  such  is  obtainable),  consti- 
tutes an  important  and  a  serviceable  volume.  His 
hope  is  that  the  example  he  sets  will  be  followed 
in  other  wards,  so  that  in  due  time  a  complete  list 
with  biographies  of  the  aldermen  of  the  City  may  be 
brought  within  reach  of  "  the  student  of  national 
aa  well  as  municipal  history."  That  accomplish- 
ment such  as  this  implies  would  be  of  high  value 
for  historical  and  genealogical  purposes  is  obvious. 
and  we  join  in  the  aspiration  that  the  example  of 
Mr.  Baddeley  may  be  followed.  Exact  records  con- 
oeming  the  aldermen  of  the  ward  begin  with  Henry 
de  Frowyck,  pepperer,  who  in  1274  was  Sheriff. 
Pepperers  were  grocers  or  dealers  in  pepper,  and, 
according  to  Stowe,  were  first  incorporated  by  the 
name  of  Grocers  in  1345.  No  defimte  mention  of 
an  alderman  of  the  ward  previous  to  Frowyck  is  to 
be  traced,  but  various  persons  have  been  mentioned 
aa  having  probably  been  aldermen  of  the  Cripple- 

Bte  Want  early  in  the  thirteenth  century.  From 
76  there  is  a  regular  sequence.  The  livery  com- 
pany is  not  in  every  case  mentioned,  but  the  alder- 
men appear  at  first  to  have  belonged  principally  to 
tlie  Goldsmiths'.  Richard  Costantvn  in  1337  was  a 
Draper,  Simon  de  Worstede  in  13w  appropriatehr 
eooogfa  a  Mercer,  and  Thomas  Carleton  in  13^ 
a  Broderer.  In  the  fifteenth  century  there  is  a 
kng  raocewon  of  Mercers,  and  after  that  period 
wiww  sooh  aa  Haberdasher,  Clothworker,  Mer- 


chant Taylor,  Upholder,  Innholder,  &c..   are   of 
more  or  less  frequent  occurrence.     The  latest  on 
the  list  is  a  Spectacle  Maker.    More  biographical 
particulars  than  were   to    be   expected   are    fre- 
quently supplied   from   the    wills   in    the  Court 
of    Hustine,   in   the   Letter  -  Books,   and   similar 
sources.     Sometimes  the  information  has  already 
been   employed   in   the  'Dictionary  of  National 
Biography.*    Some  of  the  aldermen  were  entrusted 
by  the  king  with  confidential  missions.    John  de 
Banquell  was  sent  in  1296  as  escort  to  Cardinal 
Albano  on  an  important  excursion  to  Scotland  to 
negotiate  with  ESdward  I.  a  truce  with  France. 
Many  of  the  aldermen  naturally  figure  as  mayors, 
and  many  were  members  of  Parliament  for  the 
City.    William  Cantelowe,  elected  27  May,  1446, 
carried  money  oversea  for  bringing  Queen  Margaret 
to  England,  and  supplied  gunpowder  to  the  CSistle 
of  Cherbourg  when  in  the  hands  of  the  English. 
The  first  portrait  reproduced  is  that  of  Rowland 
Heylin  (elected  1624),  from  a  painting   in   Iron- 
mongers   Hall.     Following  the  biographical  par- 
ticulars comes  an  account  of  the  aldermen  of  the 
City  of  London  and  of  the  various  ordinances  con- 
cerning their  qualification,   nomination,  election, 
duties,  removal,  &c.,  which  is  in  turn  followed  by 
a  short  history  of  the  Common  Council,  which  again 
givesplace  to  a  series  of  miscellsneous  extracts  m>m 
the  City's  records  which  are  of  high  archaeological 
interest.    Mr.  Baddeley's  task  has  been  admirably 
executed,  and  the  sale  of  his  book  should  advantage 
greatly  the  Fore  Street  Metropolitan  Dispensary, 
to  which  he  generously  devotes  the  receipts. 

Calefuiar  of  the  PcUetU  RolU,— Edward  L  1S9^13(J7. 

—Edward  11.  ISOT-ISU,  (Stationery  Office.) 
These  calendars  are  of  immense  value  to  every 
student  of  either  general  or  local  history,  but  it  is 
hardly  possible  tc  give  any  adequate  notice  of  them 
except  Dy  writing  a  vast  aissertation.  One  matter 
we  may  remark  uiK>n  which  testifies  to  the  very 
great  care  with  which  the  volumes  have  been  pre- 
pared. The  weak  point  of  a  book  of  this  kind  is 
commonly  the  index— when  there  is  one.  We  have 
here  made  many  references— how  many  we  cannot 
remember— and  on  every  occasion  have  found  what 
we  sought  on  the  page  indicated. 

Edward  I.  has  met  with  due  praise  for  having 
adapted  the  laws  of  England  to  the  exigencies 
of  the  times.  This  is  but  just;  but  we  doubt 
whether  sufficient  honour  has  been  awarded  to 
the  great  king  and  those  who  served  him  for  the 
zeal  and  fidelity  with  which  the  laws  were  admin- 
istered. No  one  can  study  these  massive  volumes 
without  discovering  that  the  country  was  passing 
from  barbarism  to  what  seemed  likely  to  become  a 
truly  beautiful  form  of  civilization.  These  fair 
promises  could  not  be  fulfilled  under  his  weak 
successors,  and  in  a  country  desolated  by  the  long 
and  savage  Wars  of  the  Roses. 

The  topographical  information  afforded  is  some- 
times of  importance.  The  freeing  of  the  land 
from  superfluous  water,  it  is  commonly  assumed, 
was  a  work  that  was  practically  commenoea 
in  this  country  by  Flemings  and  Netherlanders, 
and  those  who  worked  under  them,  in  the 
seventeenth  century.  Dugdale,  it  is  true,  knew 
better ;  but  his  *  Imbankmg  and  Draining '  is  in 
the  hands  of  very  few  persons.  We  have  evidence 
here  that  drainage  of  the  soil  and  carriage  of  mec- 
ohandise  were  alike  thought  oi^  %xA  T«MvQiCAN.\si»dK^ 
taken  to  enaute  imi^to^eiinsnXi.  ^ox  «sasKv^^^^  ^w^ 


420 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p-*  s.  vil  may  25.  mdl 


river  ADohohriu,  whieh  divides  Lmdjsey.  and,  flow- 
ing north  ward  ^  falU  into  the  Humb^r,  hod  become 
obstructed^  doubllesB  by  the  fiilt  carried  down 
from  Llie  wolds  and  by  the  weeda  which  grow  ao 
luxuriiintly  even  to  tbia  day  in  the  pe*t  moss.  An 
iuiiuisition  w«i^  therefore  niatlei  in  the  tir&t  iustani^e 
by  the  sherilf,  and  then  a  cominiaaion  was  granted 
to  two  iaiial  magnat^^,  Gilbert  de  Thortieton  and 
Ralph  Payneli  to  improve  the  river  from  the 
Bmhop's  Bridge  uy  the  Humber,  so  that  the  Ian  da 
around  might  be  drained  and  boats  pa^  to  and 
fro.  Thia  oommiBaion  w&b  mued  in  1205,  and  it 
provided  that  the  cost  of  the  improvements  should 
be  £>aid  by  the  tenants  of  the  adjoining  landa— 
that  is,  by  a  rate.  No  sucih  levy  would,  wo  appre- 
hend, in  the«e  days  be  legal  unlesa  levied  nnder 
the  authority  of  an  Act  of  Parliament.  We  are 
apt  to  think  that  in  the  Middle  Ages,  however 
rough  and  violent  the  Uvea  of  our  forefather* 
may  have  been*  they  always  showed  reapeet  for 
ohurches  and  their  Furniture.  Some  evidence  to 
the  contrary  might  be  produced  from  *  The 
Paflton  Letters.'  There  ia  more  here-  In  1302 
Walter  de  8Cai^ldon  and  otheru  were  complained 
against  by  the  prior  of  the  Friars  Preaehera 
of  Exeter  becaoBc  they  entered  the  church  tbece^ 
broke  the  lattices  before  the  altars,  carried  away 
some  of  the  church  ornaments,  and  assaulted  the 
friars. 

The  second  calendar  hs^  been  prepared  on  much 
the  same  lines  as  the  preceding.  We  think  that 
we  can  tell,  in  turning  over  i  ts  pages,  that  crimes 
of  violence  were  on  the  increase,  the  natural  result 
of  a  feeble  Government;  but  thi^i  may  be  a  mistake 
on  our  iiart.  No  certainty  could  be  arrived  at 
without  a  minute  analyaia,  whiuh  would  require 
great  labour.  Murders,  or  what  were  reputed  to 
be  suchf  were  common  in  both  reigns  ;  but  it  must 
be  remembered  that  the  lawyers  of  those  days, 
unlike  the  theologianst  did  not  make  tine  distiuc- 
tiona,  and  many  a  crime  would  here  appear  as  a 
murder  which  our  milder  judicial  system  would 
r^ard  aa  manslaughter  onl^.  Borne  times,  how^ 
ever,  we  come  on  cases  of  leniencv.  Here  i»  a  caao 
of  some  sad  domestic  tragedy,  deeply  tmpr eased . 
we  doubt  not,  on  the  hearts  of  the  neighbours,  but 
now  forgotten.  In  1309  w^e  find  Nicholas,  eon  of 
Richard  Ueat.  of  Ribfitou,  YorkBhire,  pardoned  for 
killing  a  little  girl.  He  had  not  completed  his 
seventh  year.  In  the  year  following  WilUanip  son 
of  John  de  Burbank,  who  waa  in  his  eighth  year^. 
vras  pardoned  for  the  death  of  a  certain  David 
Thacaethwait.  This  is  recorded  to  have  been 
grantedj  not  on  the  merits  of  the  case,  but  on 
account  of  the  good  service  in  Scotland  of  Henry 
de  Greystok,  whom  we  must  assume  to  have  been  m 
fnend  of  the  family.  Cases  of  torture  are  happiljr 
rare,  but  they  occur  sometimes.  Thus  in  1306  w^f 
find  contmi&sioners  appointed  to  try  a  caiie  from 
Asahewieki  in  Somereet,  where  it  was  alleged  n 
certain  John  de  A^sheloud  had  been  set  uf>ou  by 
divers  people,  bound  to  a  table,  had  hia  feel^ 
pierced  with  a  hot  iron  and  his  face  burned  to 
compel  him  to  sign  a  bond  for  a  hundred  pounds- 
What  was  the  reault  of  the  trial  we  do  not  know- 
8 wans  in  the  reign  of  the  second  Edward  wert) 
estimated  at  a  hi^h  price.  Two  brood -swans  and 
three  cygnets^  which  seem  to  have  been  unlawfully 
removed,  were  valued  at  sixty  shillings. 

M^  E&NAULT^s  00 1  lection  of  Breton  sayings  anil 
pwverba  is  a  till  continued  iu  M^usine,  Vi^il  l\ii^ 


most  notable  article  in  the  number  for  Feboiary- 
March  is  M,  Chauvin's  account  of  aeervatiou,  which 
name  he  applies  to  a  curious  usaj^e  found  among 
the  ancient  Germans,  the  Arab^i,  and  other  peoplea 
According  to  this  cuatom,  he  explains,  a  dog  which 
baa  been  unlawfully  killed  ouiiht  to  be  auapended 
by  the  tail  with  the  point  of  its  muzzle  touching 
the  gi'ound*  The  aniujal  is  then  to  be  concealed 
by  pouring  over  it  com  or  Hour*  which  be<jome«  tiie 
nroperty  of  its  owner^  to  indemnify  him  for  tbe 
loas  sustained.  In  one  remarkable  Syrian  instance, 
when  it  is  a  street  dog  which  has  been  killed,  the 
Qour  i8  made  into  bread  for  its  fellows.  An  aas* 
logons  custom  of  the  Timaanis  is  also  cite*!,  *jjd 
probably  many  further  rnstaneas  will  yet  be  found 

TtLE  hUermMiaire  continoea  its  work  of  apresd- 
ing  abroad  philological,  heraldic,  and  hjatorical 
information.  In  a  note  on  |>opular  songs  reUtia? 
lo  England  there  is  mention  of  a  quaint  haiisdc^ 
which  seems  to  bo  the  oldest  fragment  of  vera? 
relating  to  the  Maid  of  Orleans  now  known  to 
exist.  It  probably  dates  from  1429,  and  its  anthof 
raises  a  song  of  triumph  to  commeaiomte  tb 
deliverance  of  his  country 

Par  le  voloyr  dou  roy  Jhesus 

Et  jaune  la  douce  Pncelle. 


The  Duchess  of  Cleveland,  whose  dc*th,  ia  b«r 
eighty -third  year,  has  been  announced  from  Wia- 
baden,  was  a  contributor  to  onr  columns  Ha 
chief  literary  effort  was  the  publication,  in  3  voli. 
small  4to,  oT  'The  Battle  Abbey  Roll^  JMurray, 
ISS9),  Ssee  *N.  &  Q.,'  S^^  S.  i%.  li  «he  abo  in^te 
and  illustrated  '  The  !!3panlsh  Lady.' 


On  all  commiinieations  must  be  written  the  mxB» 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  neoeaaarily  hx  ^^ 
Ucation,  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  ^ith. 
Wx  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  pri  vateb^ 
To  secure  insertion  uf  com  munica tiona  oorft- 
spondenta  must  observe  the  folio  wing  rules.  I/t 
each  note  I  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  septiau 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  siicl 
anch  address  as  he  Vrishea  to  appear.  When  amvcr- 
Lng  (} aeries^  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  pre^oti 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributors  ar«  r«qaeft«l  to 
nut  in  parentheaes^  immediately  after  tha  «ne^ 
beading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pifM  ^ 
which  they  refer.  Uorrespondenia  who  rwpeki 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  aeeond  cob- 
munication  **  Duphcate," 

W.  B.  W.  (Edinburgh J.- 

The  hand  thut  rock^  the  cradle  rules  the  world 

ia  by  Mr.  William   Rosa   Wallace,   an ^__. 

See  for  f  uU  account  S*"  K.  ii.  35S,  JB  OcU,  l$m. 

NOTWM, 

Editorial  Communications  ahoiild  be  addfooiiwl  I* 
'^The  Editor  oi  'Notes  and  Queries '''~AdT«i>ie' 
menUi  and  Business  Letters  to  "  The  PbbUihir** 
at  the  D£Eice,  Bream's  Buildings,  OhaQoerT  JUwi^&& 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  dei^liiit  le  nMi 
communications  which,  for  any  nmaon,  w  do  li't 
^\^E\i\t«;  and  to  this  rule  we  can  itiako  no  eiEQepli^ 


•i*  8.  viL  BiAT  26. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

Messra.  W.  R.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Starand,  W.C, 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRAI^Y  DEPARTMENT 


TBI  fOiAOWore 


MAOAZIHSS  AND 
BBVIEW8. 


LIBBAB7  COPIES 


WITUOBAWN  FROM 
OIBOULATIOH. 


POSTAGE  FREE  to  aay  part  of  the   United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

Until  further  notice  :— 


MAQAZINBS,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTEU  DATE. 


Argoey    

BiMkwood'ft      

Oentury 

Contemporary  Keview 

Oornhllf. 

■ncUab  lUtutrated    ... 
Foraightly  Bevlew  ... 

Longman's       


PBK  km»VM 

».  d. 

ruB.  uimvm 
«.  d. 

...      7    6 

7    « 

...    13    0 

Monthly  Review       

National  Review        

1«    0 

...    10    6 

1ft     0 

...     1«    0 

Nineteenth  Oentory 

16     0 

...      7    « 

PaUMall          

8     6 

...      6    0 

Revue  det  Deaz  Moude*     

30    0 

...    Itf    0 

Scribner^ft         

7    6 

...      9    0 

Temple  Bar      

7    6 

.        ...      6    0 

Bdinborgb 


QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
,       « 7    6 1  Quarterly 


7    6 


The  tenoB  will  be  1«.  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Sabscribere  living  safficiently  near  the  Bookstalli  to 
have  the  Magaiinee  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCUIPnONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  lees  period  than 
TWiCLVK  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  ia  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

8UB80RIPTIOM8  MAY  OOMMEMOS  AT  ANY  DATS. 


I*mbliah«4l    Uflerail 


A  SELECTION  OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFrSRBD  AT  OBKATLT  RBDUCKD  PBI0K8  BY 

W.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  ai  ike  Railway  BoohstaXU,  to  wkieh  places  they  will  be  forwarded  carriage  free. 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED. 

CENTURY  MAOAZINB.  Tbe.    Vol.  ao      

ATALANTA  MAOAZINB.    Vol.  6     

LONDON  800IBTY.    8  voU.  for  1891         

8  voU.  for  IWa         

OABSBLL'S  MAOAZINB.    VoL  for  December,  18W,  to  May,  1899. 

VoL  for  June  to  November,  1899.    lUuttrated       

Vol.  for  December,  1899,  to  May,  1900  

0HAMBBB8V  JOUBNAL  of  POPULAB  LITBBATUBB,  80IBNCB.  aiid  ABT8. 

Vol.  for  1805 

— ^— ^—  Vol.  for  1897 

Vol.  for  1896 

Vol.  for  1899 

QUIVER  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  April.  1896 

November,  1896,  to  April,  1899 

May  to  October.  1899         

QOOD  WORDS.    Voli.  for  1888. 1899, 1894. 1896, 1897,  and  1896       

SUNDAY  MAOAZINB.    VoU.  for  1889. 1893, 1894, 1895,  and  1898 


Illutlrmted ... 


Vol.  for  189:1.. 


16    0 


W.  H.  SMITH  k  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Bailway  Booketalla.  to  whioh  plaeee  SubMribert  can  be  uaneferced,  ttvt  <A  ^^mucist. 

FmpettMqf  Termt, 4«.. awl ftm wfem lyfiicaliiia  to  186,  ^TKAND^  LONDON. 


«.  d 
J  6 
3  6 
6 
tf 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 

6 

0 
tf 
6 
6 
6 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p»B.viLMATaHUOL 


NOVELS    B7    THE    BEST    WBITEBS. 

Grown  8vo,  6s.  each. 


BT  MBS.  HUMPHBT  WARD. 

ELEANOR.    Fifth  Impression.    With 

niutiatloiit  by  Albert  Sternor. 
Over  1 10,000  oopiM  sold  in  BngUnd  and  America. 
Jjmdo%  OiMrteriy  Acmm*.— "A  real  love  story .  ttMptd  in  Itallaa 
■oB^iiBe  uiii  rleb  In  xUmptef  of  Italian  Uto  and  chwaeter." 

HELBECK  of  BANNISDALE.    Fifth 

BDITIOM. 
Timet.—"  A  book  which  will  take  cask  with  Mr*.  Hnmphry  Ward's 
bMt  work . . .  .The  story  of  a  great  paseloa  worthily  tcrte." 

SIR   GEORGE    TRESSADY.    Fourth 

EDITION. 
Standard,-"  An  exceedinfly  able  book.   We  doubt  if  any  other  llrinff 
woman  oonld  have  written  It." 

BT  STANLEY  J.  WEYMAN. 
The      CASTLE    INN.      With     a 

FrontUpleee.    FIFTH  EDITION. 
Times.—-  A  story  which  the  reader  follows  with  excited  cvrloeity. . . . 
The  opealnf  scene  Is  of  the  essence  of  romance,  and  worthy  of  DnmM." 

BY  A.  CONAN  DOTLE. 
The  TRAGEDY   of  the    KOROSKO. 

with  40  FttU-Pi«e  lllnstmtlons. 
SpmUr.-"  It  is  (langerons  to  describe  any  work  of  Action  In  these 
days  of  a  prollfle  press  u  a  masterpiece,  yet  there  cannot  be  any  donbt 
that  the  word  Is  strictiy  applicable  to  Mr.  Conan  Doyle's  '  Tn««dy  of 
the  Korosko.' " 

UN  OLE    BERN  AG.    With    12    Fall- 
Fete  Ulttstratiotts.   SECOND  EDITION. 
Daiiy  Vhrtmick-  " '  Uncle  Bemae '  Is  for  a  truth  Dr.  Doyle's  Napoleon. 
The  Iksdnntion  of  it  is  extmordinary.    It  reaches  erery  where  a  hlffh 
Uterery  lerel." 

The     GREEN      FLAG,     and      other 

Teles  of  War  and  Sport.    With  a  Frontispiece. 
nmc«.--"  These  stories  stir  the  blood  and  make  the  heart  beat  faster, 
end  any  Englishman  who  doee  aot  enjoy  them  must  have  sooaethlag 
wrong  with  his  nature.' ' 


BY  F.  AN8TET. 

BOTTLE. 


Third 


The     BRASS 

I  liFKBSSION . 

MatulUMter  Ouatdian.—"  A  pure  farce  from  beginninir  to  end.  and.  we 
think,  the  beet  thing  he  has  done  since  he  cracked  our  ddM  with  •  Vice 
Versd.'" 


BY  HENBT  SETON  HEBSIMAN. 
The     ISLE    of    UNREST.    With 

moatiatiena    FIFTH  HfPRBSSION. 
Uomiftg  PotL—"A.  really  admirable  novel.... The  eort  of  tale  Isr 
which  the  reader  negieeu  everything  umil  he  baa  Sakhed  it." 

BODEN'S  CORNBB.    Third  Edition. 

Punch.-"  for  dramatie  dtuatioa,  intenaity,  and  elmpUel^  of  nana- 
tlTO  it  is  manreUoas." 

IN  KEDAR'S  TENTS.  Eighth  Edition. 

Guardian.—"  Mr.  Merrlman  at  his  best.     It  U  fuU  of  adTeatQre,sf 
humour,  and  of  rigour." 

The    GREY   LADY.     New    Edition. 

With  13  Full-PBge  lUttstrattons. 
aiob€,—  '  A  story  of  striking  merit  throughonV* 

The  SOWERS.   Twenty-first  Edition. 

Graphie—"  WlU  be  found  rery  diffleult  indeed  to  lay  down  eatU  tU 
last  pege  has  beea  turned." 

BY  S.  B.  CBOCEETT. 
The  SILVER  SKULL.   With  12  FoU- 

Page  lUustratioas.    SECOND  IMPRESSION. 
BriUfh  WeMv.—*'K  work  of  real  genius,  full  of  glorloas  advcatafss. 
sUrrlng  with  the  rooaance  of  hot  and  paseUwate  hcaiia." 

LITTLE    ANNA   MARK.      With  a 

FrontUpleee.    SECOND  IMPRESSION. 
IMly  TOiaraph.-"  A.  lattllag,  rousing  etory  of  adveatare  and  ads- 
adveatare.''^ 

The    BLAOK    DOUGLAS.      With   8 

FuU.FBge  IllttstraUons.    THIRD  IMPRESSION. 
9eaitr.—"A.  book  which  gripe  the  ioaflaattoa  in  a  I 


satisfactory  Itahloa. 

The    RED  AXE. 


With   8    FoU-Pttge 

lUustiatlons.    THIRD  IMPRESSION. 
W0MV  Sun—"  A  powerful  story,  which  he  telU  la  hla  own  ssuiBifrt 
style." 

CLEG    KELLY,   Arab    of  the  City- 

THIRD  IMPRESSION. 
Spectotor  —"  Carries  the  reader  along,  keenly  iaterseted  aad  taO  «f 
sympathf,  from  the  flret  page  to  the  taat." 


CHEAP  EDITIONS  OF  STANDARD  WORKS. 

Handy  Volamee,  printed  in  cl«ar,  bold  type,  on  good  paper.    Baoh  Work  oompleto  in  One  Volume. 
Fcap.  8vo,  picture  boards,  28.  each ;  or  limp  red  cloth,  28.  6d.  each. 

BY  HENBY  SETON  MEBBIMAN.      BY  THS  AUTHOB  OF  'MEHALAE' 


WITH  KDOBD  TOOLS. 
The  8LAVB  of  the  LAMP. 


I  FBOM  ONB  QBNBBATION 
I         toANOTHBB. 


BY    THE    AUTHOB    OF    'MOLLY 
BAWN.' 


PHYLLIS. 
PORTIA. 
BOSSMOYNE. 
BBAUTY*S  OAUOHTBBS. 


MOLLY  BAWN. 

MBS.  QBOFFBBY. 

AIBY  FAIBY  LILIAN. 

DOBIS. 

OBBBN  PLBASUBB  and  GBBY  GBIBF, 

FAITH  and  UNFAITH.         i     LADY  BBANKSMBBB. 

LOY8.  LOBO  BBBBBSFOBD.  and  other  Tales. 

UNDBBCUBBBNTS. 

BY  OEOBOE  0I8SIN0. 

DBMOS :  a  Story  of  Socialist  Life  in  Bngland. 
A  LIFB'S  MOBNINO.  I     THYB^. 


The  NBTHBB  WOBLD. 


NBW  GBUB  STBBBT. 


MBHALAH :  a  Story  of  the  Salt  Manbea. 

COUBT  BOYAL.  I        The  OAVBBO0K8. 

JOHN  HEBBINO.  |         RIOHABD  OABLB. 

BY  W.  E.  N0RRI8. 

HBAPS  of  MONBY.  I        MATRUIONY. 

MADBMOISBLLB  DB  MBBSAC. 

NO  NBW  THING.  |        ADBIAN  YIDAL 

BY  HABOLTON  AIDE. 

IN  THAT  STATB  of  LIFB.    |         PBNRUDDOOK& 

MOBALS  and  MY8TBBIBS. 

MB.  and  MBS.  FAULOONBBIDGB. 

BY  THE  AUTHOR  OF  '  JOHH 
HALIFAX,  OENTLEKAN; 

BOMANTIC  TALBS.  i         DOMB8TI0  81000* 


•«•  MESSRS.  SmiTH,  ELDER  ^  CO.  wiU  be  happy  to  fimvard  a  copy  of  their  CA  TALOGUBpott  frm  m 
London :  SMITH,  ELDER  &  CO.  15,  Waterloo  Place,  S.W. 


I  by  JOHN  BDWARl)  PakNClS.  kVheaatLia  Vtsav  >&t«Mo  %  Vi^VVdlwn,  Chaaoery  Laae.  B.O. »  aad 
JOHN  G.  PEAMOn  U  Breaia'a  Ba!adlBc»,  CteiMati  \aaa,^vi.-%aM«4Bni,  Ma^  f»,  lioi. 


fthUakedlf 


NOTES   AND    QTTERIE8: 

%  ^iimn  ai  Inttrcininniimatiim 

lOB 

LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


**W1mb  found,  make  a  note  of.**— Gaptaih  Cuttlb. 


No.  179.  [b'SS.]  Saturday,  June  1,  1901.  \ 


PsxoB  FouBpnrox. 

MgfiHtrtd  M  a  Ntwiprnptr. 


OXFORD    Um^nSRSI^ 

Small  4to,  backmn,  pp.  zxlv-196,  with  Oolonred  Plates,  other  Illattratioiu  and  Map,  13t.  9d.  net. 

The  ALFRBD  JEWEL:  an   Historioal  Essay.    By  John  Earle,  M.A.  LL.D., 

Bector  of  Swantwick,  Prebendary  of  WelU,  Bawlinaonian  Profestor  of  Angto^axon  in  the  University  of  Oxford. 
SPBCTATOB.—*'  It  li  mach  more  than  a  deioription  of  the  Jewel,  interestinc  as  this  is  itself;  it  is  an  essay  on  the 

great  King,  with  espedal  reference  to  the  Somersetshire  epoch  of  his  life .There  will  doubtless  be  a  oonnderable 

*^Alfred  *  literature  during  the  present  year,  but  this  volume  will  hardly  be  surpassed  In  interest.** 

New  Bdition,  completely  Rewritten  and  Rearranged.    Post  8vo,  pp.  xyi-664,  cloth,  5i.  (kf. 

A  CONCISE  ETYMOLOaiCAL  DICTIONARY  of  the  ENGLISH  LANGUAGE. 

By  the  Bev.  WALTBR  W.  SKBAT.  Litt.D. 
NOTES  and  QtrBRlES,—"  The  latest,  the  most  oonvenient,  and  the  most  serviceable  edition  of  his  'Oonoite 
Dictionary '  that  has  yet  been  given  to  the  world." 

Crown  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  396,  with  2  Maps,  4s,  6d. 

The  RELATIONS  of  GEOGRAPHY  and  HISTORY.   By  the  Rev.  H.  B.  George, 

M.A.,  Pellow  of  New  College,  Oxford. 

8vo,  half-roan,  pp.  xxxil-372,  ISf . 

LEGISLATIVE  METHODS  and  FORMS.   By  Sir  Oonrtenay  Ilbert,  K.C.SI. 

C.I.B.,  Parliamentary  Counsel  to  the  Treasury ;  sometime  Member  of  the  Council  of  the  Govemor-Oeneral  of  India. 
8vo,  buckram,  Vols.  II.  and  III.,  10f.  each. 

The  COMPLETE  WORKS  of  JOHN  GOWER.    Edited  from  the  Manuscripts, 

with  Introductions.  Notes,  and  Glossaries,  by  O.  C.  MACAULAY,  MA..,    formerly  Fellow  of  Trinity  College, 
Cambridge.    BNQLISH  WORKS.    Ahready  published.  Vol.  I.,  FRBNCU  WORKS,  ISf. 

In  4  vols,  crown  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  9074,  34«. 

The  WORKS  of  GEORGE  BERKELEY,   D.D.,  formerly  Bishop  of  Cloyne. 

Including  his  Posthumous  Works.    With   Prefaces,   Annotations,  Appendices,  and  an  Account  of  his  Life,  by 
ALBXi^DBR  CAMPBBLL  FBASER,  Hon.   D.C.L.   Oxford,   Hon.    LL.D.  Glasgow  and  Bdinburgh;  Emeritus 
Professor  of  Logic  and  Metaphysics  in  the  Uni%'ersity  of  Bdinburgh.    With  a  Portrait,  Ac 
%*  The  LIFB  and  LBTTBBS,  which  are  not  included  in  the  New  Bdition,  are  still  obtainable,  in  1  demy  8vo  vol.,  ISf. 

A  NEW  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY  on  HISTORICAL  PRINCIPLES.    Founded 

mainly  on  the  Materials  collected  by  the  Philological  Sodety.    Bdited   by  Dr.  JAMBS  A.    H.  MURRAY  and 
Mr.  HBHRY  BRADLBY.    Stngto  SeoUon.  L— Lap  (commencing  Volume  VI.),  2$.  (kf.    By  Mr.  HBHRY  BRADLBY. 
A  RBI8SUE  in  MONTHLY  PARTS  :  No.  23,  COMMITTBB— OONCOMITANBOUS,  3«.  (kf. 


ALSO    PUBLISHED    BY    HENRY    FROWDE. 
BRITISH  ANTHOLOGIES.   Edited  by  Prof  E.  Arber.   In  crown  8vo  Volumes, 

doth  extra,  3t.  td,  each.    Now  ready  :— 

Vols.  I.  and  X.,  completing  the  Series. 
Vol.  I.   The  DUNBAR  ANTHOLOGY,  1401-1508  a.d.       Vol.  X.  The  COWPBR  ANTHOLOGY,  1776-1800  A.o. 

Small  4to,  cloth,  gilt  top,  pp.  x-160,  with  a  Portrait.  6«. 

AT  the   GATES  of  SONG.    Sonnets  by  Lloyd  Mifflin.   Crown  8vo,   cloth, 

pp.  zvi-493,  with  a  Portrait.  6s, 

Crown  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  zvi-492,  with  a  Portrait,  6s. 

SPEECHES  of  OLIVER  CROMWELL,  1644-1658.    Collected  and  Edited  by 

OHARLBS  L.  8TAINBR,  M.A..  Christ  Ohnreh,  Oxford. 


LoDdoQ:  HBNBY  FROWDB,  Oxford  UniTenity  Pxeaa  Yf «x«ho\iM«  km«ii^TVi^T^^«^« 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»"  s.  vn.  jc«  i,  mol 


M^ 


RBASY  THIS  WBBK. 

'^PHE    DOUBLB    CHOIR     of     GLASGOW 

JL  CATHBDRAIi.    A.  Study  Of  Blb-Vanlfelaff. 

By  T.    L.  WATSON,   F.R.I.B.A. 

Demy  4U>.  protoMly  lUostimted. 
Cittern  PitM,  James  Heddarwick  *  Sons,  OUuffOW. 

THB  OM  I<A  MO&B  PRBBS. 

FKBPARINO   for  PUBLICATION,  a  Mew  Work  of  greet  Artietto, 

Hlstortoel,  AntiqiiMriaii,  ead  Topofimpbioel  latereet. 

rONASTIC    SBAL8    of    the    THIRTEENTH 

CBMTU&Y.   With  tlie  BBfllah  Oflee  for  their  Beeeptioa. 

so  Fall-Fate  Plates  la  CoUotype.    With  Historical  latrodnetloa  and 

DeseriptlTe  Motee  by 

OALB  PBOBICK.  F.&.HUt.8oc 

Presented  In  Old-need  Type,  bonad  In  parchmeat,  and  gilt  lettered. 

Price  to  Snbeeribers  before  pnblleatlon.  21«.  net,  after  whleh  It  will  be 

raised  to  SM. 

Spedmea  Plate  and  Prospeetos  free. 

Address:   &2,  High  Holbom,  London,  W.C. 

MOW  KBJlDY,  SBOOMD  BDITIOM,  RBVISBD  and  AUOMBMTBD, 
prlee  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LTMM,  B.A.  F.&^8. 
O.  STONBMAM,  S8.  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 

MOW  EBADT.  SBOOMD  BOITION.  BBTI8SD  and  BMLABOBD. 

»^rHB    PENNY    CHRONOLOGY:    a    Series    of 

JL  Important  Dates  in  the  History  of  the  World  from  the  Belcn  of 
DsTid  to  the  Present  Time.  Second  Bdltion.  By  W.  T.  LYMmTb^A. 
F.R.AS. 

O.  STOMBMAM,  S8.  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 

TBMTH  BDITIOM,  price  Two  Shillings. 

r^ELESTJAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    of 

Kjf  Astronomy.  Tenth  Bditton.  With  8  Plates.  By  W.  T.  LYMM 
aA.  F.II.A.S. 

"  Well  kaown  as  one  of  onr  best  introdneUoas  to  astronomy." 


SAMPSON  LOW  *  00.  St.  Dnnstan's  House,  Fetter  Lane.  B.O. 

EXCHANGE  (or  would  SUB-LET)  for  THREE 
MONTHS,  a  HOUSB  in  Sonth-West  Suburb  (66^  rental)  for  a 
Reeidenee  in  the  Oonntry,  or  Seaside.— Apply  P.,  Athenenm  Press, 
Brsam's  BaUdlngs,  B.O. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— SUGAR— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 

SCHWBPPBS  WATBB8  awarded  Gold  Medal  at  International 
BahiUtioa,  Paris.  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda 

THESE  WATER6  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  kCtkc.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 

/    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER :~ 
{  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,  > 
(  In  SPLIT2S,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  ) 

SCHWEPPBB,  LTD.,  LONDON,   MaLVERN, 
GLABOOW,  JUYBEFOOL,  BRUTOL,  8YDNBY,  i»i  MBLBO\lllMv\ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 
to  NOTBS  Axo  QUBRIB8  tree  by  poet  U  iOa.  3^  for  8lz  Moaths; 
or  20$.  6d.  for  TwelTO  Moatha.  inelndlnff  the  Volanae  lateK.— JOHM  C 

FRANCIS,  JVMe«  a    '^       .     —       .     _  ..  „  _ 


E 


NGLISH   MIDDLE. CLASS   FAMILIES, 


D.  1580-l«0.-Oolleetor  of  Pediffreee  and  Pedigree  Brldenei 
InTites  laqniriee.-Addreee  BBOOKD  AOBNT.  ID,  Beeorelt  Bead, 
Broekley,  London,  S.B. 

BOOKS,  MSS.,  &c.— Mesers.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 
CO.,  AnetlOBeerB  of  Book*  and  lAtamrj  rmpoitf  of  every 
deaeription.  libraries  and  enaller  CoUecHona  oarefnUy  caaalogaei 
and  promptly  oObred  for  Sale,  ftefciair  and  BeaaoTal  armaged  lir. 
ValaatiOBs  made  fmr  Probate  or  o" 
Chaneery  Laae  (Fleet  Street  ead). 


r  Probate  or  other  parpeeee. 
BatabUAedlSO 


\,m. 


BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  sup- 
plied, ao  natter  oa  what  Sabjoet.  Aehnowledcod  Che  woffM  em 
ae  th»  BBott  axpeit  Bookflnders  extant.  PleoM  ttato  vaata.— BAJLIBt 
Great  Bookthop,  14-16,  Joha  Bright  Street.  T' 


AGBMOY  FOB  AMBKICAM  BOOKS. 

/:;     P.    PUTNAM'S   SONS,   PUBLISHERS  and 

\A  m  BOOKSBl^LBBS, 

of  27  aad  39,  West  SSrd  Street.  Mew  York,  aad  U,  BBDFOKD  «TiUBT, 

LONDON,   W.a,   deeire   to  eaU  the   aiieatloa    off  the    KBAIHIfO 

PUBLIC  to  (ha  •zeelleat  laellitlM  preaeatod  by  their  Braneh  HeoM  la 

London  for  fllliag.  oa  the  mote  taToarabie  tewa,Bi<eii  for  BMr 

OWB     STANDARD     PUBLICATIONS,     aad    for     ALL    AMBRICAK 

BOOKS. 

CaiaiofpMe  amt  oa  applieattoa. 

LOJSDON  LIBR 

ST.  JAMBS'S  8QUA&B.  S.W. 
F««r«fi-HI8   MAJB8TY  THB    KIMO. 
PrMidMt-LBSLIB  STBFHBN.  Ba^ 
Vir»-Prtmdmit9^Th%  Kl|riit  Hoa.  Lord  Aetott,  the  Bight  H 
Balfour.  M.F..  the  Bight  Men  W.  B.  H.  Leehy,  M.p7o.aL., 


ART, 


]y«*<M^BiCht  Hon.  Lord  ATobvy,  F.B.B.,  Bight  Hon. 
Boaebery.  Bight  Hoa.  Sir  U.  Oreac  Duff. 

Tha  Library  eoaialna  about  1)0,000  Voinmea  of  Aaeicot  aa4 
Llteratura,  la  Varloua  Lamruagea. 

Snbaerlpcion,  V.  a  year ;  Life  Menberahtp.  aoeordlag  to  ate. 
VoloDiaa  are  aliuwad  to  Oouotry,  and  Tan  tv  Town  Membeaa. 
Boom  open  from  Ten  till  half-peat  Six.    Catalogue.  Fifth  Mil 
2  TOia.  royal  8vo,  price  ai«. ;  to  Membera,  ISa. 
0.  T.  HAGBBBG  WBIOHT.  LLd. 


■.A  J. 

Haram 


Bad  If 
IMan 
nfttca 


nuLL; 


LETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 


loriaailoia  reeperfing 

ABMOBIAL  BBABIMOS  AMD  FAMILY   DBM»n. 

with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Attfatte  rredaetlea  el 

HBBALDIO  FAIMTDf  O  AMD  BMOBAVIMO. 

Book-Platee,  SeaU.  Dlee,  Slgaet  Binge.  LlTery  Bnttou,  CMled  Han- 

—  ir,  ViHttng  aad  InTitattos  QartaTSe! 


92.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (• 


ATHEN^UM  PRESS.— JOHN  SDWABD 
FBANCIS,  Printer  of  the  4l*«M«m.  JTaiaa  mmd  Qaarte.  Aa.  h 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  B8TIMATBS  for  all  hiada  of  BOOK.  KIWI, 
and  PBBIODICAL  PBIMTINO.— IS,  Bream'a  BvlMlMa.  ChaaaiT 
Lane,  BC. 

THE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPXR-PAD. 
<Tha  LBADBNHALL  FBBSS.  LU..  Publlaheia  a»«  FtMera 
W.  LteiftnhaH  Street.  Leaides,  B.C.I 
Contaiaa  hairlaae  paper.  OTor  whleh  the   pea   ailpa  wttt  aarhrt 
freedom.    Supeaee  aaeh.   te.  per  doaen.  ruled  or  pIMa.   Mew  feiMl 
Sloe.  U.  per  doaea,  ruled  or  plua. 

Authora  ahouid  note  that  The  lieadeahall  Fiwik  LM..  aHnai  w 
reaponaible  for  the  lorn  of  MHS.  by  Are  or  olherwftoe.  DepUmW  m$» 
•hould  b«  retained. 

STICKPHA8T    PASTE    U  HEAPS  brtlar  Ihtf 
Gum  fur  atiehiag  ia  Serape,  JolBlM  Fupaiu. *■,   MLniUui* 

Btrong.  aaetul  Bruah  (not  a  Tay>.   SeM  v ■ " ^^ 

tor  a  aample  Bottle,  laohiil^-  * 
^itt«um.a   OfaU 


9*  s.  vii.  JuN.  1, 1901]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


421 


LONimK,  SATURDAY,  JUNS  I,  1901. 

CONTENTS. -No*  179. 
NOTBS  :  -  Bcdlwl«t.1(»l  "  P«raI1»(»/"  431  -  *  ThE  Two 
DucbMKKfl '  —  Sbftkcapcftre  s  Bcsoks,  13J*  —  The  '^  Corae- 
Out-Bpji.*'  42l-**Lii-'K-cl*"— Cflmbrllgffthlrp  Ornlthciloj^y 
-Porun  or  Screen^"  U tl II tarS mi  "-Trinity  Mall  Oluipel. 
4^^ -Poet  Laureate >  Blrtb place—*"  Carking  c»ra,"  AM, 

QUKRIBS  :-Goii.wllrlat<Nl  IruleAtJ,  i3(*— Modem  Bookiiuni 
InoiwvfnieuceB  — lIlustrRtioni  t^  *TIie  Mlir  — BngHsb 
Omtory  —  *'  All  roadis  Iwd  to  Borne  "  —  **  HymmvU "'— 
Americsji*— Comteue  de  Bcgur— Kemp,  4:r7— Tbts  Hat  in 
Rarone—Iubel  of  Fortiigftl  —  Ivcmgh,  c(i.  Doirn- Boeton 
Loc&l  Bft^rdi— llcv.  Q.  Wll lis- HanfJiiis- White-Beard  of 
tbe  PJnnft  und  Silk— Uninftirrie<1  L^rrt  MJiyoTB— Cotnlih 
DkI>7  Mmmm,  43S -Oooke— Huikfofvi— Aflbwood  FninUy, 

BBPLISS  : -Heraldic  -.  Amfirt<3iwi  Heraldry,  ia9— A ppwltlon 
— BfO*'ri€  FAmilv- CamU'ridge  In  tbe  Seventeenth  Century 
—  DfiliigtM.  Bay  —  *  KHlhk^en  Ma^aurne«n/  41^)  -Vj»i£ah- 
ing  Lunion  :  GhH^it'tP  UospiUt— Shlpei  of  War  on  LJUid  — 
Morrla  fti^  n  BIjm  of  Buitinena— Simon  FrAser— Orient &tlon 
In  tntermentf,  431  —  "CiilpeAra"  —  Lfttlti  Motto-  Old 
London  Tftvems — SarupQt  Fami ly — ' '  Anyon e/ '  * "  Bvprv- 
one/"  133-Detacbed  Sheet-*' Croog '*—Uutton  Family. 
433— St.  CbrlBtonhef  nod  La«g bier- Sir  Slnic^on  Steward 
—Bonaparte  Baflart*  134— Fortescue,  4:t5- Lizard  Folk- lore 
— Sumamei— Slfltem  with  iame  ObHatlftn  Name  — Great 
Exb  Ibf  tkjTi  - '  H .  E ,  D. ,  4:ifl  - '  Tro  \M  <  ►f  Git  he  rt  ii  Becket  t  *  - 
Ci^mnaiSon  of  Qu^^n  Victoria- Do  rail  on  of  Life  In  Seed  a, 
43T-' '  Qui  vl%e  Y  "-Hlng  of  Bll£*t-eth-AnusIoa  In  Wordi- 
worth— Fainted  and  Btigravi^  Portraits- OoU  Thomaa 
Cooper,  43S. 

KOTBS  OH  BOOKS  :-R$dgc«way>  'Barly  Age  of  Oreeee' 
— Piper'a  *  Qhnrcb  To  wen  of  Somorielibire  '— HobionV 
*  Catbedml  Cburab  of  8t.  D&vld'a.* 

Soiieea  to  CSoTretpoadento. 


ECCLESIASTICAL  *'  PECULIARS." 
A  PBOULIAB  is,  or  rather  was,  a  place 
Qcclesiasticaily  exempt  from  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  bishop  of  the  dioceae*  By  an  Act  of 
Parliament,  10  h  11  Victoriai  pursuant  to 
recommecidatioti  of  the  Eccledaiitical  Com- 
missioners, it  was  ordained  that  such  exemp- 
tioa  should  he  aboliahed,  and  that  all  places 
where  the  privilege  existed  should  be  brought 
under  jurisdiction  of  the  ordinary.  Thu^ 
with  a  few  •unimportant  ejcceptions,  it  may  be 
said  that  peculiars  are  a  thing  of  the  past ; 
so  entireljt  indeed,  that  they  are  wrapped  in 
a  general  oblivion,  and  I  have  had  some  diffi- 
culty in  obtaining  information  concerning 
them  *  Therefore  it  may  be  well  worth 
whUe  to  put  on  record,  not  indeed  a  history, 
but  such  a  gathering  of  facts  as  I  have  been 
able  to  make. 

A  peculiar  wa^j  "  exempt "  as  being  subject 
to  some  other  jurisdiction.  How  such  exclu- 
sive rights  grew  up  or  were  oh  tamed  it  is  not 
always  easy  to  see.  But  we  know  that  the 
Popes  claimed  and  exercised  the  right  of  ex- 
etnpting  abbeys  from  epiycopal  jurisdiction. 


*  I  iiave  found  no  help  at  lUl  from  the  Indexea  of 


Mitred  abbots,  being  as  great  men  as  bishops, 
would  defy  the  biahop  in  their  own  domains. 
The  kings  asserted  the  same  right   No  doubt 
ako  powerful  nobles,  building  churches  on 
their  property,  would  be  likely  to  assert  an 
exclusive  authority  over  them,  holdiog,  and 
sometimes  alienating,  such  right    The  Arch- 
bishop  of  Canterbury  held  a  large  number  of 
peculiars,    an    ancient    proscription   having 
given  to  hira  exclusive  right  in  every  place 
where  the  see  held  property.   I  find  it  stated 
in    Kudder^s    *  History    of   Gloucestershir** 
(1779),  under   'Bibury/  that  this  rule  was 
made  by  Ai^cbbishop  Lanfranc  \  but  I  have 
not  been  able  to  verify  the  statement.    For 
the   superintendence   o£    these   a  Court  of 
Peculiars    was    established    in    London,    as 
Blackstone  notes ;  and  here,  for  a  sample  of 
the  oblivion  which  has  so  greatly  covered 
these   matters,    I    may  state  that  whereas 
*Whitaker's  Almanack*  for   this   year  1901 
locates  the  **  Vicar- Generfll*B Office  for  granting 
Marriage  Licences,  and  Court  of  PecuJiarSj'*  at 
3,  Creed  Lane,  Ludgate  Hill,  on  inquiry  at 
the  place  1  learnt  from  the  officials  whom  I 
saw  that  they  had  never  even  heard  of  the 
existence  of  such  a  court,  which  must  have 
expired  about  1848,  when  tbe  Act  of  Parlia- 
ment abolished  peculiars.    There  were  also 
peculiars  belonging  to  bishope,  to  capitular 
and  collegiate   oodies,  to   deans  and  other 
members    of   a   chapter  as   such.    On    the 
alienation  of  the  abbey  lands  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  peculiars  commonly  pa^s^  to  the 
impropriators.     Some  places  also  there  were 
in  which  the  incumbent  wa^    himself   the 
ordinary^  holding  his  own  (^uasi  -  episcopal 
court,  sometimes  also  exercising  jurisdiction 
over  other  neighbouring  parisJies,  mostly  a 
remnant  from  the  former  power  of  a  monastic 
house.   By  the  statute  25  Henry  VIII.,  cap.  19, 
it  was  enacted  that  all    appeals  from    the 
Jurisdiction    of   abbots,    priors,    and    other 
heads  and  governors  of  monasteries,  abbeys, 
priories,  ana  other  places  exempt,  which  haa 
hitherto  been  made  to  the  Bishop  of  Home, 
should  henceforth  lie  only   to  the  king  in 
Chancery. 

In  five  peculiars  the  incumbent  bore  the 
title  of  dean:  Battle,  Sussex;  Booking, 
Es»ex ;  Had  lei  gh,  Suffolk  (the  rector  or 
which  place  was  and  still  is  entitled  also 
Dean  or  Booking) ;  Middleham.  Yorkshire ; 
St.  Bury  an,  Cornwall  In  the  last  two  the 
title  was  abolished  when  the  parishes  were 
subdivided  c,  1850.  There  were  no  others 
that  r  know  of.  There  is,  indeed,  a  titular 
Dean  of  »S  tarn  ford  in  the  diocese  of  Lin- 
coln ;  but  the  deanery  is  not  attafik^\i^  ^^^ 
rectory  ot  ^l^tnlotd^  Snu^  V\j  S&  ^K.  \s^»«oN. 


-422- 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,      [»>R.Yn  jimrMm. 


borne  by  the  rector  of  Market  Deeping,  who 
tells  me  that  his  only  duty  is  as  trustee  of  a 
large  town  charity. 

Now  as  to  the  exercise  of  jurisdiction.  In 
every  peculiar  there  was,  or  ought  to  have 
been,  a  periodical  **  visitation  '^  like  that  of 
bishop  or  archdeacon.  By  custom  an  official 
or  commissary  was  appointed  for  this  busi- 
ness, except  where  the  rector  was  himself 
the  ordinary,  holding  his  own  court.  By 
No.  cxxvii.,  'Of  Constitutions  and  Canons 
£cclesiasti(»l,'  enacted  in  1  James  I.,  it  was 
provided  that 

**  no  man  shall  hereafter  be  admitted  a  ohancellor* 
commissary^  or  offioiall  to  exercise  any  ecclesias- 
tical jurisaiction,  except  he  be  of  the  full  age  of 
six  and  twentie  yeeres  at  the  least,  and  one  that  is 
learned  in  civill  and  ecclesiastical  lawes,  and  is  at 
least  a  Master  of  Arts  or  Bachelor  of  Law.*' 

Those  who  are  cognizant  of  the  former  prac- 
tice in  Church  courts  need  not  to  be  told  that 
the  business  brought  before  these  commis- 
saries was  of  a  very  substantial  character. 
Marriage  licences  and  probate  of  wills  were 
granted,  midwives  received  or  exhibited  their 
iicenoes,  presentations  were  made  of  those 
who  abstained  from  public  worship,  drc., 
also  of  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  base-bom 
children. 

But  we  may  well  suppose  that  laxity  of 
discipline  would  follow  on  this  exemption 
and  ireedom  from  episcopal  control.  Parish 
priests  might  become  careless  in  performance 
of  ministerial  work,  scandalous  in  life  and 
conduct.  It  is  not  improbable  that  such 
visitation  as  there  was  might  in  many  cases 
be  intermittent  and  rare,  even  that  it  might 
altogether  fall  through ;  and  we  cannot 
doubt  that  officials  and  commissaries  would 
be  less  strict  in  dealing  with  offences — 
whether  ministerial,  or  those  of  lay  men 
and  women  in  regard  to  irreligious  and 
scandalous  conduct— than  would  the  bishops' 
or  archdeacons'  courts.  We  of  the  present 
day,  who  have  learnt  that  not  every  sin  can 
be  treated  as  a  crime,  may  think  that  the 
cause  of  religion  and  morality  would  not 
greatly  suffer  from  this  absence  or  laxity  of 
supervision,  but  it  was  far  otherwise  thought 
of  in  past  days. 

Hence  the  existence  of  peculiars  was 
always  regarded  by  bishops  (as  we  might 
be  sure  that  it  would  be)  with  indignation 
and  jealousy— -the  jealousy  of  human  nature 
against  an  independence  which  defied  them, 
as  well  as  righteous  indignation  at  abuses 
and  evil  examples  in  their  diocese  with 
which  they  were  powerless  to  deal.  Thus 
in  hu!t,  from  earlier  times  to  the  latest^  we 
£nd  evidence  of  struggles  on  tiie  paxt  oi 


bishops  to  overcome  this  baneful  independ- 
ence. The  Roll  of  Battle  Abbey  records 
such  a  struggle  in  the  twelfth  century,  of 
which  I  wul  speak  hereafter.  In  the  year 
1562  Alley,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  exhibited  in 
Convocation  certain  proposals  to  be  sub- 
mitted to  the  Queen  in  Parliament:  this 
amongst  others,  that 

"bishops  should  have  iurisdiction  in  all  criminal 
causes  oefore  them,  ana  to  reform  other  diaorden 
in  all  peculiars  and  places  exempt,  which  be 
speltmccB  IcUronum*^  (Strype, '  Annakr). 

In  1714,  following  on  the  institution  of 
Queen  Anne*s  Bounty,  it  was  provided  by 
Act  of  Parliament  that  *'  all  such  donatives  as 
are  now  exempt  from  all  ecclesiastical  juris- 
diction, and  shall  be  au^ented shall  he 

subjected  to  the  visitation  and  jurisdiction 
of  the  bishop.''  The  *  Valor  Ecclesiasticiis ' 
of  Henry  VIII.,  published  1818-25,  contains 
an  appendix  for  each  diocese,  signed  by  its 
bishop,  setting  out  the  number  and  nature  of 
all  peculiars  therein.  From  these  we  obtain 
a  few  hints,  some  of  them  almost  amusing. 
Thus,  to  quote  one  case,  that  of  Hawarden, 
then  in  the  diocese  of  Chester,  it  is  said : 
*^  Grants  probates  and  marriage  licences, 
but  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Bishop 
of  Chester  as  to  everything  strictly  epis- 
copal.'' Seeing  that  the  rector  was  ordinary 
of  the  place,  holding  his  own  court  therein, 
that  he  could  not  be  summoned  to  the 
bishop's  visitation,  and  that  when  a  confirma- 
tion was  needed  he  **  invited  "  the  bishop— 
who  could  not  come  for  that  purpose  untoss 
invited— it  is  hard  to  see  what  were  the 
'things  strictly  episcopal"  in  respect  ^ 
which  he  was  subject.  Again,  of  Bibory  in 
Gloucestershire  it  is  said,  *'The  bishop 
claims  the  right  of  visitation."  Of  this 
claim  we  will  speak  hereafter.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  is  likely  enough  that,  partlv  through 
a  becoming  sense  of  loyalty,  partly  also  in 
the  hope  of  favour  ana  preferment,  many 
incumbents  of  peculiars  mi{;ht  be  willing  to 
waive  somewhat  of  their  pnvil^^  attending 
visitations  and  the  like — a  submission  which 
would  no  doubt  be  carefuUy  noted,  and  sooo 
auoted  for  a  precedent.  Thus  in  the  Exeter 
diocesan  registry  it  is  recorded  that  on  a 
visitation  oi  Bishop  Valentine  Car^  (o& 
1626),  the  curate  of  Temple  (hereafter  to  be 
spoken  of)  appeared  and:  paid  the  reffistrar 
I2d.  visitation  fee.  From  this  he  would  oer 
tainly  have  been  exempt,  and  it  must  havo 
been  a  voluntary  act  of  submission. 
I  I  have  already  stated  how  and  when  these 
peculiar  privileges  were  abolished.  A  few 
places  I  believe  there  stiU  are  (murbe  aaorl 
01  private  chapelries)  to  which  the  patm 


9»8.viLJuN«i.win.)       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


423 


presents  without  the  bishop^s  institution, 
and  in  which  a  measure  of  independence  is 
still  maintained  or  assei-ted.  In  a  few  also^ 
as  Battle,  Booking,  Hadleigh,  Ha  war  den, 
and  some  others,  the  dean  or  rector  retains 
the  right  of  granting  marriage  licences  con- 
currently with  the  bishop  of  the  diocese. 
And  this  is  all  that  is  left  to  them  of  the  old 
and  now  departed  pdvilege.  One  writes 
with  a  sort  of  regret  for  an  old  usage  lowt 
and  a  link  with  the  past  savered^  though  it 
may  be  well  that  the  thing  was  abolished. 

Cp  B.  Mount. 
(To  be  ftmiinucd,) 


•THE  TWO   DUCHESSES/ 
As  the  recovery  of  the  long  -  lost  Gains- 
borough picture  may  give  a  fresh  lease  of 
life    to   a   book   with    the    title  *The  Two 
Duchesd@s«'  edited  by  Mr.  Vere  Foster,  and 

riblished  in  1898  by  Messrs.  Blackie  dt  Son, 
take  the  liberty  of  calling  attention  to  the 
manner  in  which  this  bc<»k  is  Illustrated, 
It  is  scarcely  likely  that  the  publishers 
had  any  direct  hand  in  the  matter,  and 
it  is  not  e^sy  to  believe  that  the  editor 
had  much  to  do  with  it,  althougli  the  onus 
must  naturally  rest  on  him.  It  is  even  more 
difficult  to  attribute  the  blunders  which  I 
am  about  to  point  out  to  accident.  Fwdng 
p.  96  there  is  a  portrait  of  a  lady  in  a 
large  "  Gainiiborough "  hat,  and  with  the 
title  ^^Oeorf|ianat  Duchess  of  Devonshire. 
From  the  painting  by  George  Romney  (bet 
1775-81)."  Now  the  Rev.  John  Romney  in 
the  *  Memoirs  *  of  his  father  distinctly  states 
that^  although  Georgiana  sat  more  than  once 
to  his  father,  the  Dortrait  never  came  to  any- 
thing, for  he  could  never  get  her  to  keep  her 
engagements.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  portrait 
reproduced  in  Mr,  Vere  Foster's  book  is 
neither  of  Geordana  nor  by  Romney,  but 
repi'esents  Mrs.  Drury  and  is  by  Sir  Joshua 
Reynolds ;  the  original  portrait  was  at  the 
Old  Ma?!t^rs'  in  197S,  andf  an  engraving  of  it, 
by  Every,  was  published  by  Messrs.  Graves 
in  1868. 

Facing  p.  132  in  the  same  book  is  the 
reprcKJuction  of  a  portrait  described  as  repre- 
senting "  Elizabeth^  Duchess  of  Devonshire. 
From  a  picture  in  the  possession  of  Sir  A. 
Vere  Foster,  Bart/'  But  this  hatt  nothing 
whatever  to  do  with  Lady  Betty  Foster,  and 
is,  in  fact,  a  portrait  of  Mrs,  Siddons  by 
J.  Down  man,  and  was  engraved  by  P,  W. 
Tomkins  in  1788  —  a  print  perfectly  well 
known  to  every  collector. 

On©  naturally  begins  to  suspect  the  other 
illastrations  in  this  book.   On  p,  340  there 


is  a  reproduction  of  a  whole-length  portrait 
described  as  *'  Elixabetb,  Duchess  of  Devon- 
shire. From  the  painting  by  Sir  Thomas 
La  wrence,  P.  R.  A. "  Law  re  n  ce  pain  ted  El  iza- 
beth,  Duchess  of  DBvoushire,betore  her  second 
marriage,  and  this  portrait  was  oxhihite*i  at 
the  Royal  Academy  in  1805  ;  an  engraving  by 
F.  G.  Lewis  was  published  in  1828,  But  the 
portmit  raproduced  in  Mr.  Vere  Foster*s  *>ook 
iH  totally  distinct  from  the  engraved  picture, 
audf  indeed,  is  as  unlike  the  lady  wlrom  it 
claims  to  represent  as  it  is  possible  for  it  to 
be.  The  picture  may  be  by  Lawrence,  but  I 
am  certain  it  does  not  represent  Elizabeth, 
Duchess  of  Devonshire, 

The  extraordinary  ignorance  with  which 
this  book  is  illustrated  strikes  one  at  the  very 
start,  for  the  frontispiece  is  a  portmit  of 
"  Elizabeth,  Duchess  of  Devonshire.  From  a 
print,"  the  person  responsible  for  the  illus- 
trations apparently  not  knowing  that  the 
original  portrait  is  by  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds^ 
and  that  it  was  engraved  by  Bartobzxi- 
There  is  probably  no  more  widely  known 
print  than  this.  Moreover,  the  picture  itself 
was  painted  about  seventeen  years  before 
Lady  Betty  Foster  became  Duchess  of  Devon- 
shire. 

It  is  to  prevent — or  at  all  events  to  arrest 
—if  possible,  the  perpetuation  of  th^e  amaz^ 
ing  blunders  that  I  call  the  attention  of  your 
readers  to  the  book.  W.  RoBEBTis. 

47,  Lansdowne  Gftrdeui,  S.  W. 


SHAKESPEARE'S  BOOKS. 

{CoiUinutd  from  p.  1G4,) 
There  is  a  resemblance  between  Shake* 
speare^s  account  of  the  conduct  of  King 
Henry  Y,  and  his  soldiers  before  the  battle 
of  Agincourt  and  the  account,  in  the  '  Life 
of  Scanderbeg,'  of  the  conduct  ol  Scanderbeg 
and  his  soldiers  before  the  battle  of  Phar- 
saiia.  Before  the  battle,  Scanderbeg,  King 
of  Epire, 

**  maketh  hts  handa  sod  hb  a^es  the  witiieases  of 
all  that  is  dotio.  He  vieweth  and  rt?viowath  hit 
trou|ie»t  he  exammeth  if  all  be  well,  and  sUU  is 
devUin^  mai  caathig  how  t-o  dispcue  and  order  nil 
thinffS  for  the  best*" 

And  King  Henry  walks  "from  watch  to 
watch,  from  tent  to  tent "  i — 

0  now,  who  will  bahold 
The  royal  captain  <if  this  rtiiix^d  band 
Walking  fron)  iK-atch  to  watoh,  from  tent  to  tent^ 
Let  him  cry  ^'  Pr-aise  and  glory  oq  hia  head  !  ^ 
For  forth  he  goes  and  visits  all  hia  hogt, 
Bida  thern  Eood  morrow  wilh  a  modest  smjle, 
Aixd  calls  them  brothers i  frienda^  wid  cotmtrf  men* 
*  H«pry  V,/  IV»  Chorua. 

Before  the  batUe  oi  Y\\&T%i^As^  ^«2fS£i&  i^ 
Ba^Wst  so\d\eT% 


424 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»»  s.  vn.  juh.  i.  ww. 


I 


'*  were  passing  away  the  time  in  plaies  and  sportes 
of  all  sortes  and  usual]  amongst  soldiers,  did  joyfully 

beguile  their  eyes  of  sleepe For  amongst  them 

likewise,  every  man  was  bent  to  take  his  ease  and 
to  spend  away  the  time  in  mirth." 

Accordiog  to  the  Chorus, 

Proud  of  their  numbers  and  secure  in  soul, 
The  confident  and  over-lusty  French 
Do  the  low-rated  English  play  at  dice. 

^HenryV.,'IV. 

And  to  the  description  of  the  state  of 
Bassa's  army  this  marginal  note  is  attached, 
'*  Securitie  and  negligence  of  the  Turkes." 

Sea-sick, 
The    word    "  sea  -  sick  "   in    Shakespeare's 
works  has  a  peculiar  meaning. 

"  Such,  Philautus.  is  thy  disease,  who  pining  in 
thine  owne  follies,  chusest  rather  to  perish  in  love, 
then  to  live  in  wisdome,  but  whatsoever  be  the 
cause,  I  wish  the  effect  may  answer  my  friendly 
care:  then  doubtless  you  shall  neither  die  being 
sea-sick^  or  doat  being  love-sick.  I  would  the  sea 
could  aswel  purge  thy  mind  of  fond  conceits  as 
thy  body  of  grose  humours."— '  Euphues  and  his 
England.' 
King,  We  are  descried;   they'll  mock  us  now 

downright. 
Dumain,  Let  us  confess  and  turn  it  to  a  iest. 
Princess,    Amazed,  my  lord?    why   looks  your 

highness  sad  ? 
Rosaline,  Help,  hold  his  brows!    he'll  swoon  I 
Why  look  you  ])ale? 
Sea-sick,  I  think,  coming  from  Muscovy. 

*  Love's  Labour 's  Lost,'  V.  ii. 

Further  on  in  this  passage  Biron  says, 

My  love  to  thee  is  sound,  sans  crack  or  flaw ; 

and, 

Yet  I  have  a  trick 
Of  the  old  rage ;  bear  with  me,  /  am  sick. 

It  is  evident  that  Shakespeare  here  refers 
to  the  following  passage  in  ^Euphues  and  his 
England '  :— 

"  But  beleeve  me,  Fidus.  he  taketh  as  great  delight 
to  course  a  coeitation  of  love,  as  you  doe  to  use 
your  time  with  Honny.  In  this  plieht  hath  he  bene 
ever  since  his  camming  out  of  Naples,  and  so  hath 
it  wrought  with  him  (which  I  had  thought  impos- 
sible) that  pure  love  did  make  him  sea-sick,  insomuch 
as  in  all  my  travaile  with  him,  I  seemed  to  every 
one  to  beare  with  me  the  picture  of  a  proper  man, 
but  no  living  person,  the  more  pitie  and  yet  no 
force." 

Portia.  He  is  the  picture  of  a  proper  man. 

*  Merchant  of  Venice,'  L  ii. 

Rosaline  thinks  the  king  is  sea-sick  coming 
from  Muscoyv,  and  Euphues  savs,  "  In  this 
plight  hath  ne  bene  ever  since  his  comming 
out  of  Naples,"  &c.,  and  *'  pure  love  did  make 
him  iea-sick."  Pure  love  makes  Philautus 
sea-sick,  and  Biron  is  sick  because  he  has  *'  a 
trick  of  the  old  rage  "—that  is,  he  is  in  love. 
Autolycua.  I  brought  the  old  man  and  YvVs  &cm 


fardel  and  I  know  not  what :  but  he  at  that  time, 
over-fond  of  the  shepherd's  daughter,  so  he  then  took 
her  to  be,  who  began  to  be  much  sea-sick,  and  him- 
self little  better,  extremity  of  weather  continuing, 
this  mystery  remained  undiscovered. 

*  Winter's  Tale,*  V.  iL 

In  another  part  of  'Euphues  and  his 
England '  Philautus  says, 

"  Would  that  I  were  in  Italy,  or  now  in  En^and. 
I  cannot  brook  these  seas,  which  provoke  my 
stomach  sore"; 

and  Euphues  replies, 

"I  cannot  tell,  Philautus,  whether  the  sea  make 
thee  sicke  or  she  that  vhm  borne  of  the  sea ;  if  tbe 
first,  then  thou  hast  a  queasie  stomach ;  if  the  latter, 
a  wanton  desire." 

According  to  Autolycus,  to  be  over-fond 
is  to  be  sea-sick,  and  it  was  not  the  sea  which 
made  Biron  sick,  but  ''she  that  was  borne  of 
the  sea,"  that  is,  Venus,  the  mother  of  love. 

It  is  evident  that  sea -sick  in  'Love's 
Labour's  Lost'  and  'The  Winter's  TsJe' 
stands  for  lovesick^  and  I  think  the  adjective 
has  that  meaning  in  '  Romeo  and  Juliet,' V.iiL 

Romeo.  Come,  bitter  conduct,  come,  unsavoory 
guide! 
Thou  desperate  pilot,  now  at  once  run  on 
The  dashing  rocks  thy  sea-sick  weary  bark ! 
Here 's  to  my  love  !   [Drinks.^  0  true  apothecary ! 
Thy  drugs  are  quick.    Thus  with  a  kiss  i  die. 

I  think  Romeo,  who  was  desperately  in 
love,  uses  the  word  sea-sick  in  tne  sense  in 
which  it  is  used  in  the  passages  I  have  quoted 
from  '  Euphues  and  his  England,'  where  it 
means  love-sick. 

Shakespeare  sometimes  imitates  Lyl^'s 
manner  of  playing  upon  words,  as  in 
'Richard  II.,'  V.  ii.,  where  the  Duchess  of 
A  u  merle  plays  upon  the  word  violets,  using 
it  in  its  ordinary  sense,  meaning  the  flowers 
of  that  name, 

That  strew  the  green  lap  of  the  new-come  spring, 
and  also  in  the  sense  in  which  it  is  used  in 
'Euphues  and  his  England,'  where  it  signififw 
a  lover  or  sweetheart. 

Shakespeare  uses  sea-sick  three  times.    I 
am  not  aware  that  any  of  the  commentators 
have  noticed  the  peculiar  meaning  of  this 
adjective  in  his  works.       W.  L.  Rushton. 
{To  be  continued,) 

The  "  Come -Outbrs."— The  informatkm 
in  the  'H.KD.'as  to  this  word  is  somewhat 
inadequate,  the  earliest  citation  being  from 
Haliburton's  'Human  Nature,'  186&  In 
1840  there  was  an  unusual  excitement  coo- 
cerning  religion  in  Massachusetts.  Many 
persons  of  varyins  shades  of  opinion  were 
dissatisfied  with  tne  churches  and  aodeiiei 
then  and  there  existing,  and  "came  out.'*  In 


Autoipcua.  I  Drougnt  the  oia  man  ana  tv\%  ftcm\^"^\^  ""^.""'"^^  y^^**"^* '-"'^*  k^^TT^T ^x. 
aboard  tbe  prince ;  told  him  I  heard  tViem  taWi  oi  «b\coTvvaiTtfiWm  xrvW^\fcA  Seoond  Adventiflte  th^ 


•  8.  viLJrins  1.1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


425 


called  a  convention,  and  met  at  Groton,  thirty 
miles  from  Boston,  in  August,  1840.  There 
were  present  townsmen  and  countrymen, 
preachers,  literary  men,  farmers,  and  Cape 
Cod  fishermen.  Theodore  Parker  was  there, 
and  Ripley,  and  Alcott.  The  *'  Come-Outers  " 
had  no  church  edifices  and  no  regular 
ministi^,  and  soon  went  to  pieces,  herein 
exemplifjang  Sir  Thomas  Browne's  remark 
about  those  who  are 

"  naturally  indisposed  for  a  community,  nor  will  be 
ever  confined  unto  the  order  or  oeoonomy  of  one 
body;  and  therefore,  when  they  separate  from 
others,  they  knit  but  loosely  among  themselves." 
I  take  my  facts  from  chap.  vii.  of  Frothing- 
ham's  *  Life  of  Parker,'  ana  wish  I  could  add 
an  early  citation  of  the  use  of  the  word  in 
question.  Richard  H.  Thornton. 

Portland,  Oregon. 

"La-di-da."    (See  anU,  p.  299.)-^ Your  re- 
viewer is  not  far  wrong  in  his  surmise.  There 
was  an  old  song^  much  appreciated  in  certain 
circles  some  thirty  or  rorty  years  ago,  the 
refrain  to  which  ran  nearly  as  follows  :— 
The  La-di'da  with  the  ladies. 
That  is  the  style  that  suits 
The  glpriotts  name  and  the  matchless  fame 
Of  Humphry  de  Wellington  Boots. 

Roughly  the  date  might  be  1865;  at  any 
rate,  it  was  much  before  1883.  The  editors  of 
the  *H.RD.'  need  make  no  apoloey  for  not 
being  acquainted  with  this  class  of  literature. 

HOLCOMBB  InGLEBY. 

The  Ornithology  of  Cambridgeshire.— 
We  have  good  authority  for  saying  that 
"  there  is  not  a  more  fearful  wild-fowl  than 
your  lion,"  but  as  a  rule  one  would  not 
class  quadrupeds  with  birds.  It  is  a  little 
startling  to  read  the  following  in  the  rules 
and  regulations  of  a  society  which  has  its 
headquarters  in  Cambridge  :— 

"  L  That  this  Society  be  called  '  The  Cambridge- 
shire Ornithological  Society,  and  consist  of  Members 
subscribing  &.,  or  upwards,  per  annum.  Members 
subscribing  One  Guinea  per  annum  shall  be  eligible 
as  Vice-Presidents  of  the  Society.  This  Show  will 
be  held  under  the  Revised  Rules  of  the  Kennel 
Club. 

"  II.  That  its  object  be  to  encourage  competition 
in  the  breeding  of  Dogs." 

Never  a  word  is  said  throughout  about  the 
bipeds  with  feathers  ;  the  whole  goes  to  the 
dogs.  St.  Swithin. 

PoBTALL  OR  ScREEN.— From  Monkton,  in 
the  Isle  of  Thanet,  on  28  October,  1678.  the 
churchwardens  appeared  in  the  court  ot  the 
Archdeacon  of  Canterbury  and  stated 
*'  that  the  parish  church  of  Monkton  is  seated  in  a 
very  cold  place,  and  that  the  door  leading  into  the 
•aine  doth  open  into  the  north  side  of  the  said 


church,  whereby  the  cold  winds  did  drive  into  the 
same,  to  the  annoyance  of  divers  of  the  parishioners ; 
and  to  prevent  the  inconvenience  thereof,  they  or 
some  of  them  have  unadvisedly,  and  without  due 
order  first  obtained,  caused  a  portall  or  screen  to  be 
placed  in  the  said  church  against  the  said  door,  and 
that  the  said  portall  is  placed  without  damage  or 
inconvenience  to  any  persons,  seats,  or  pews." 

Arthur  Hussey. 
Tankerton-on-Sea. 

"  Utilitarian."— In  chap.  xxxv.  of  Gait's 
*Annala  of  the  Parish'  tne  reverend  auto- 
biographer  is  represented  as  recounting  his 
difficulties  in  1794  because  his  people  had 
become  separated  into  the  two  sections  of 
Qovemment  men  and  Jacobins.  This,  for 
the  anxious  pastor,  was  nothing  short  of  a 
calamity.  "  I  told  my  people,"  says  he,  "  that 
I  thought  they  had  more  sense  than  to  secede 
from  Christianity  to  become  Utilitarians." 
This  is  a  classic  passage,  with  a  certain 
epoch-making  dignity.  In  a  note  to  chap.  ii. 
of  his  '  Utilitarianism,'  Mill  says  that  he  has 
reason  to  believe  that  he  was  "the  first 
person  who  brought  the  word  Utilitarian 
into  use.  He  did  not  invent  it^  but  adopted 
it  from  a  passing  expression  in  Mr.  Qalt's 
'Annals  of  the  Parish.'"  Mill  wrote  'Utili- 
tarianism '  in  1854,  and  it  appeared  in  Fraser's 
Magazine  in  1861,  and  was  published  as  a 
volume  in  1862.  It  is  curious  enough  to  find 
that  a  writer  of  a  very  different  cast  from 
John  Stuart  Mill  seems  to  have  anticipated 
him  in  adapting  Qalt's  felicitous  term.  In 
book  iv.  chap.  v.  of  '  Tancred  ;  or,  the  New 
Crusade,'  1847,  reflecting  on  the  patent 
difference  between  Damascus  and  other 
cities  of  old  time,  Disraeli  writes,  "  You  have 
explained  then,  says  the  Utilitarian,  the  age 
and  flourishing  fortunes  of  Damascus."  The 
employment  of  the  word  bv  Disraeli  in  this 
practical  sense  does  not,  of  course,  affect  in 
the  least  Mill's  position  as  a  pioneer  in  its 
philosophical  application.  But  the  mere 
sequence  in  the  case  is  interesting,  especially 
in  respect  of  the  form  given  by  Mill  to  the 
introductory  jMirt  of  his  note. 

Thomas  Bayne. 

Trinity  Hall  Chapel.  (See  ante,  p.  355.) 
—Under  the  title  of  '  The  Bishop  of  London's 
Funeral'  Mr.  R  Clark  asks  it  Lord  Mel- 
ville refers  to  a  certain  "Trinity  Hall, 
Aldersgate,"  as  being  in  London.  There 
can,  I  tnink,  be  no  doubt  of  the  fact.  In  the 
large-scale  maps  of  London  printed  for  Stow's 
'Survey'  in  1755  Trinity  Court  is  plainly 
shown  as  being  the  second  on  the  left  in 
Aldersgate  Street  outside  the  gate,  and  in 
Stow's  'Survey,'  1618,  p.  570,  d<»<5.T&saN% 
Aldersgate  'Ward,  \iVvb  '^f^X^c  %w^^\— 


426 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p^s-vn.  ju«i.i«l 


"  Then  Henry  the  sixt,  in  the  24  of  bia  raigne,  to 
the  honour  of  the  Trinitie,  gave  liceqce  to  Uanie 
Joan  Astley,  sometime  his  nui^e,  t«  R.  Cau-ood  and 
T.  Smith,  to  found  the  same  a  Frat^initie^  perjiGtu- 
ally  to  have  a  Master  and  two  CubUtil  with  Bretlirtiu 
and  Sisters,  &c.  This  Brotherhood  w&i  indowed 
with  Lands,  more  than  thirtie  pomid  by  the  yeere* 
and  was  suppressed  by  Edward  tbi^  sixt/' 

Again,  in  Pennant's  *  London  Improved,' 
p.  227,  appears  the  following  :— 

"Hall of  the  Holy  Trinity.— A  few  dootti  above 
Little  Britain,  on  the  site  now  oociipied  by  Trinity 
Court  in  Aldersgate  Street,  atQod  an  Hosplul  or 
Cell,  to  the  priory  of  Cluffny  hi  France,  belongiiig 
to  the  brotherhood  of  The  Holy  Trinity,  founded  m 
1373.  This,  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VL,  was  chtttii^ed 
into  a  brotherhood  of  priests,  to  celebrate  divme 
service  in  the  church  of  St.  Botolph  ;  partly  eflseted 
by  the  parishioners,  and  partly  by  Joan  Afitley, 
nurse  to  Henr^  VL  This  oontjnu&d  till  the  dis- 
solution of  religious  houses  by  Henry  Vm. ;  and 
being  spared  by  the  fire  of  London,  their  haJL  was 
within  a  few  years  past  a  noa-jurorB'  chapel ;  a 
vestry:  a  school-room;  then  Alder»gat*  Street 
Coffee  House  ;  and  last  of  all  we  understand  it  h^ 
been  hired  by  Mr.  Prince,  as  a  dancing  academy /'^ 

This  seems  to  plaoe  the  history  and  situation 
of  the  hall  beyond  a  doubt,  a.^  well  as  to  illus- 
trate the  fate  of  the  lesser  monastery  buildinga 
after  the  evil  days  of  the  dissolution. 

Wm,  Noemaw, 
6,  St.  James's  Place,  Plumstead. 

The  Poet  Laureate's  Birthplace.  —Errors 
are  difficult  to  eradicate,  so  the  sooner  the  fol- 
lowing correction  is  maae  known  the  better 
it  wilTbe  for  the  thousands  who  are  studying 
Ruse's  '  Helps  to  "Lyra  Heroica  " '  (Macmillan 
&  Co.).  In  Mr.  Ruse's  'Helps'  it  is  stated 
that  Mr.  Alfred  Austin  is  a  native  of 
Devonshire.  Believing  that  he  was  born 
at  Headingley,  near  Leed.i,  I  have  given  a 
biographical  notice  of  him  in  *  Yorkshire 
Anthology,'  and  I  have  received  confirraa' 
tion  of  tnis  from  the  Poet  Laureate  himself. 
J,  HoRiiFALL  Turner, 

Idle. 

"Carking  care."  — This  is  not  an  un- 
common expression,  but  apparently  its  exact 
meaning  is  unknown  to  aome  people.  In 
looking  over  Mr.  Churton  CoIIinii'S  edition 
of  '  The  Early  Poems  of  Alfred,  Lord  Tenny- 
sonj'  1900, 1  came  across  (p.  34)  the  following 
cunous  note  on  the  line  in  *  A  Dirge "" : — 
Thee  nor  carketh  care  nor  alandf  r. 

"Carketh.  Here  used  transitively,  'troubles/ 
thouf^h  in  Old  English  it  is  generally  intraaBJtive, 
meaning  to  be  careful  or  thoughtful ;  it  h  from  th^ 
Anglo-Saxon  Carian;  it  became  obsoktcr  in  the 
seventeenth  century.  The  subs  tan  ti  ve  curL  trouble 
or  anxiety,  is  generally  in  Old  English  ooupJed  with 
care" 

I  fear  Mr.  Collins  has  not  studierl  his 
Murray  with  the  attention  that  work  desarves. 


Had  he  done  so,  he  would  have  aaoertained 
that  cark  and  care  (verb  carian)  have  noting 
etymologically  to  do  with  one  another,  the 
former  word  being  -Anglo-French  and  the 
latter  Teutonic.  The  real  meaning  of  "cark- 
ing care  "  is  burdensome  care,  and  to  cark  is 
to  load,  and  thence  to  harass  or  vex.  The 
primary  meaning  is  transitive,  and  it  was 
not  used  intransitively  till  a  later  period. 
It  has  hardly  yet  become  obsolete^  at  least 
among  the  minor  poets,  and  in  the  eighteenth 
century  it  was  used  by  Thomson,  Ricnardson, 
and  Berkelev.  There  seems  no  necessity  in 
an  edition  of  Tennyson  for  notes  of  this  kind, 
but  if  they  are  inserted  at  all,  they  should  be 
accurate. 

Other  errors  in  the  book  may  be  due  to  the 
printer,  such  as  the  consistent  misspellinfc  of 
the  name  of  Edward  FitzQerald,  the  attnba- 
tion  to  Browning  of  ^ Fefine  at  the  Fair' 
(p.  40),  and  the  strange  transformation  of  the 
late  Lord  Houghton^  name  into  "Moncton 
Milne"  (p.  250) ;  but  they  have  rather  an 
irritating  effect  upon  the  reader. 

Sir    Henry  Wotton    used    to   say,   if  we 

I  may  believe  Lord  Verulam,   "that  Critticks 

!  are  like  Brushers  of   Noble-men's  deaths" 

C  Anophth.,'  No.  64.  d.  83,  ed.  1626).  Tennyson, 

of  all  writers,  should  have  careful  valeting. 

W.  F.  Prideaux. 


We  must  reouest  correspondenta  desiring  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  mtereit 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  qoeriet, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  tlieiii 
direct.  

Consolidated  Indexes.— Will  a  dozen  or 
so  students  of  genealogy  join  me  in  forming 
a  club  for  the  making  of  what,  for  want  of  a 
better  term, I  will  call" consolidated  indexes"! 
It  is  quite  impossible  for  an  individual,  in 
making  a  genealogical  search,  to  encompass  a 
tithe  of  the  existing  indexes  which  are  likely 
to  assist  him,  contained  as  they  are  in 
hundreds,  if  not  thousands,  of  scattered  books 
of  various  classes,  MSS.,  and  records,  whose 
numbers  are  increasing  every  year. 

My  proposal  is  this :  Let  a  club  be  formed, 
and  let  each  member  devote  himself  to  names 
beginning  with  one  {Mtrticular  letter  of  ih» 
alphabet,  proceeding  to  the  formation  of  a 
"  consolidated  index  "  of  all  names  beginning 
with  that  letter.  Thus  one  member  takes  A 
names,  another  B  names,  another  C  names, 
and  so  on  to  Z.  Each  copies  upon  a  ^ysteoL 
from  every  index  he  can  lay  hands  on — small 
indexes  preferred—the  names  beginniiig  with 
his  especial  letter.    The  ayatem  ia  peneelly 


»*8.viLJcNBi.i90i.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


427 


simple,  but  not  easily  explained.  I  will  send 
a  specimen  sheet,  showing  the  method  of 
arrangement,  to  any  who  propose  to  join. 
Members  would  be  expected  to  work  upon  a 
uniform  plan^  and  to  undertake  to  examine 
their  respective  indexes  for  names  in  which 
other  members  happened  from  time  to  time 
to  be  interested.  If  only  fifteen  join  a  start 
can  be  made,  but  there  is  plenty  of  scope  for 
ten  times  that  number. 

Let  me  conclude  with  an  extract  from  a 
review  which  appeared  in  the  Daily  Chronicle 
of  29  August  last  :— 

**  He  who  makes  a  good  catalogue  confers  a  great 
boon  on  his  follow-men,  though  none  but  those  in 
charge  of  [or  who  use]  great  libraries  can  really 
appreciate  the  boon ;  they  alone  can  realize  what 
an  enormous  mass  of  information  exists  on  every 
subject,  and  can  understand  how  useless  it  all  is 
until  properlv  catalogued  and  rendered  available  to 
students.  We  are  waking  up  to  the  necessity  of 
classification  and  organization  in  the  world  of  books. 

On  all  sides  there  are  signs  that  the  near  future 

will  be  signalized  by  the  svstemizing  of  the  know- 
ledge we  already  have,  ratner  than  by  great  strides 
in  the  direction  of  further  gains." 

These  reinarks  apply  with  peculiar  force  to 
genealogical  research.  I  will  gladly  explain 
the  plan  at  greater  length  to  any  who  will 
address  me  direct. 

George  F.  Tudor  Sherwood. 
50,  Beecroft  Road,  Brockley,  S.E. 

Modern  Books  :  their  Inconveniences. 
—Here  are  two  books  soliciting  me :  Mr. 
Churton  Collins's  ^Ephemera  Gritica'  and 
Mr.  Dutt's  'Highways  and  Byways  in  £ast 
Anglia.'  The  latter  is,  perhaps,  the  more 
immediately  interesting  of  the  two,  but  I 
choose  the  other  because  it  weighs  seven 
ounces  less.  The  books  are  almost  exactly 
of  the  same  size  (the  lighter  one  has  twenty- 
one  pages  more  than  the  other),  and  both  are 
substantially  bound  in  cloth.  The  difference 
in  weight  is  enormous,  and  tells  heavily 
against  Mr.  Dutt's  book,  which  is  positively 
burdensome.    Why  should  it  be  so  ? 

May  I  also  ask  why  the  inner  margin  of 
books  is  often  so  narrow  that  one  has  to  bend 
the  books  backwards  till  the  binding  cracks 
to  be  able  to  read  them?  This  is  the  case 
with  the  naw  edition  of  Gray's  'Letters' 
published  by  Messrs.  Bell  k  Sons,  a  volume 
otherwise  purely  delightful.  The  wonder 
is  increased  by  the  fact  that  there  is  an  ample 
outer  margin.  0.  C.  B. 

Illustrations  to  *  The  Mill.*— Who  illus- 
trated by  hand  the  poem  of  'The  Mill,'  a 
Moravian  tale,  written  in  1829  by  Francis, 
first  Earl  of  Ellesmere,  which  figured  in  the 
catalogue  of  T.  Wenman  Martin,  Esq.,  who 


died,  I  think,  in  Seymour  Street,  Portman 
Square,  in  the  sixties  ?  Can  any  one  tell  me 
how  much  the  poem  then  fetched,  as  I  am 
informed  it  is  now  very  scarce?  Mr.  W. 
Martin  was  a  great  collector  of  pictures  and 
engravings,  and  I  have  some  specimens  from 
his  collection.  J.  M.  S. 

Enoush  Oratory.  —  A  correspondent 
writes  to  me : — 

'*  Can  you  tell  me  of  any  book  on  English  orators 
and  oratory  in  the  last  two  centuries  ?  I  have  to 
write  an  essay  on  the  causes  of  the  decline  of 
rhetoric  since  the  days  of  Burke  and  Sheridan.  I 
suppose  it  comes  chiefly  from  reporters  and  news- 
papers." 

Will  the  Editor,  or  any  one  else,  kindly 
respond  to  this  appeal  ? 

Jonathan  Bouchier. 

[There  is  '  The  World's  Best  Orations,*  10  vols. 
(8t.  Louis  and  Chicago,  Kaiser).] 

"  All  roads  lead  to  Bx)mb."  —  Can  any 
reader  give  me  references  for  the  well-known 
quotation,  "All  roads  lead  to  Rome"? 

W.  B.  W. 
[Juvenal  has  *'  Omnia  Rome  cum  pretio."] 

**  Rymmyll."— What  is  the  above  word  in 
Barbour's  '  Bruce,'  xii.  577  ?  I  give  the  con- 
text:— 

Ther  men  myoht  se  ane  hard  battale. 

And  sum  defend  and  sum  assale, 

And  mony  a  riall  rymmyll  ryde 

Be  roucht  thair  [apon]  athir  syde. 

Jamieson  gives  no  clue.  H.  P.  L. 

Americana.— Can  an^  of  your  readers  state 
if  "  An  Abstract  or  [«c]  the  Lawes  of  New 
England  as  they  are  now  established.  London, 
printed  for  F.  Coules  and  W.  Ley  at  Paules 
Chain,  1641."  15  pp.  small  4to.  with  frontis- 
piece and  **  Table  of  the  Chapters,"  is  a 
rarity  ?  I  find  it  bound  up  in  a  volume  of 
seventeenth-century  tracts  in  my  possession. 

CoMTESSE  DE  SicuR.— I  shall  be  glad  of 
particulars  of,  or  information  where  I  can 
nnd  biographical  details  of,  the  life  of 
Madame  la  Comtesse  de  Sdgur,  nde  Rostop- 
chine,  who  wrote  *  Memoires  d'un  Ana' 

A.G. 

The  Surname  Kemp.— The  surname  Kemp 
is  commonly  derived  from  the  A.-S.  cempa^ 
whence  we  have  the  words  kemi)  and  kempery 
used  in  old  ballads.  In  early  documents  the 
ancestors  of  the  present  Kemps  are  in  many 
instances  descrioed  as  ''de  Campo,"  "de 
Campis,"  or  ''atte  Camp,"  with  evident 
reference  to  their  place  of  abode.  On  con- 
sulting  the   *H.E.D.'   I   find   the  obsolete 


428 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [9»  s.  vil  JrsB  i.  iwi. 


substantive  camp  defined  as  ^*  martial  con- 
test, combat,  fight,  battle,  war."    On  turning 
to  tne  corr&sponding  verb  I  find  that  a  place 
where  contests  were  wont  to  be  held  was 
called    a    "  camping    close "    or    "  camping 
pightel."    The    question    occurs.    Was    the 
substantive  camp  ever  transferred  from  the 
contest  to  the  place  of  contest  itself?    If  so, 
the  descriptive  phrases  which  gave  rise  to  the 
surname    Kemp  are  easily  explained.    The 
*H.E.D.,'  however,  gives  no  instance  of  the 
transferred  use  here  suggested.    In  any  case 
campus   would   be  the  Latin  equivalent  of 
"  camping  close  ";  but  how  is  the  form  '*  atte 
Camp"  to   be   accounted    for   unless  camp 
signmed    a   place   of   some   kind?     Ctmpa 
probably  gave  rise  to  the  surname  Campion 
through  the  Latin  campio.    As  I  am  assist- 
ing in  the  production  of  a  work  on  the  history 
of  the  Kemp  and   Kempe  families,  I   shall 
be  glad  to  nave  the  opinion  of  competent 
scholars  as  to  the  soundness  of  the  derivation 
of    the   name    here    proposed.    Camp  is   a 
freauent  element   in    English  place-names, 
sucn  as  Castle  Camps,  Shudy  Camps,  Camps 
End,  and  Camps  Green,  to  which  Camp  by 
itself  ought  to  be  added.      John  T.  Kemp. 
4,  Gotham  Grove,  Bristol. 

The  Rat  :  its  First  Introduction  into 
Europe.  —  Was  any  species  of  rat  known 
in  Europe  in  the  early  centuries  of  our  era  ? 
The  part  played  by  the  rat  in  the  spread  of 
plague  is  recognized  on  all  hands,  although 
its  importance  is  variously  estimated.  Bubonic 
plague  ravaged  Europe  in  the  sixth  century, 
dunng  the  reign  of  Justinian.  Is  there  any 
evidence  of  the  existence  of  the  rat  in  Europe 
before  that  date  ?  The  brown  rat  is  of  recent 
introduction,  but,  according  to  the  writer  in 
'Chambers's  Encyclopsedia,'  the  presence  of 
the  black  rat  is  noticed  by  Albertus  Magnu!^ 
in  the  thirteenth  century.  Was  it  then  a  new- 
comer? A.  D. 

Isabel  of  Portugal.  —  The  death  of  this 
princess,  third  wife  to  Philip  the  Good,  Duke 
of  Burgundy  (d.  1467),  is  sometimes  dateiJ 
1471,  sometimes  1472.  Which  year  is  correct? 
The  day,  it  is  agreed,  was  17  December. 

C.  S.  Ward. 

Wootton  St.  Lawrence,  Basingstoke. 

IvsAGH,  CO.  Down.— Turning  over  a  back 
number  of  the  Saturday  Review  (30  October, 
1897).  I  came  across  the  statement,  in  an 
article  entitled  'The  Guinness  Pedigree,'  that 
**  Lord  Iveagh  had  about  as  much  idea  how 
to  pronounce  the  title  he  had  chosen  as  he; 
hacf  the  right  to  claim  descent  from  the 
ancient  Lords."    The  second  part  of  this  doe^ 


nob  concern  me,  but  I  am  deeply  interested 
in  all  that  relates  to  the  pronunciation  of 
names,  and  I  shall  be  glad  if  any  Irish  or 
other  reader  can  tell  me  what  is  the  correct 
ltK5al  pronunciation  of  Iveagh.  Is  it  two 
syllables  or  three  1  Dr.  Joyce,  *  Irish  Names 
of  Places,'  second  series,  1875,  p.  155.  gives 
Uibh-Eachach  as  the  Gaelic  orthography. 
Jas.  Platt,  Jun. 

Boston  Local  Records.  —  Some  time  in 
the  early  years  of  the  last  century  a  person 
entitled  to  property  in  Boston,  Lincolnshire 
a^j  well  as  at  Sutterton,  Linc«:)ln8hire,  could 
not  be  found  by  my  grandfather,  hia  heir,  and 
I  have  been  given  to  understand  that  toe 
property  was  taken  possession  of  by  the 
Crown.  This  person's  death  has  now  bew 
traced,  and  it  is  not  known  that  he  has  lot 
any  legitimate  issue.  How  can  I  find  records 
of  property  in  Boston  and  its  vicinity  i  1 
was  told  that  a  complete  register  could  be 
had  at  Spottiswoode's  of  property  held  by 
the  Crown,  but  on  application  could  not  get 

it.  NOTSBAM. 

Rev.  George  Willis.— Can  any  Hamjprfiire 
reader  tell  me  if  this  person  is  buned  at 
Stoke  Charity,  where  he  was  Uving  (and 
possibly  vicar)  in  1823;  and  if  so,  wiU  he 
kindly  send  me  a  copy  of  the  inscri^^on  on 
his  tombstone?     T.  Cann  Hughes,  F.S.A. 

Lancaster. 

Rawlins- White.— Who  wasRawlins-Whit^ 
who  suffered  martyrdom  at  the  Reformation  i 
See  Burke's  *  Landed  Gentry,'  p.  1241  (1898). 

F.  Rawliwb 

Beard  op  the  Pinna  and  Silk  Manu- 
facture.—Can  you  tell  me  if  the  beard  of 
the  mnna  is  still  used  anywhere  to  makesuiT 
In  the  Levant  it  is  now  onlyused  medicinally. 
W.  H.  D.  Rouse. 


Unmarried  Lord  Mayors.— In  *  The  Lord 
Mayors  and  Sheriffs  of  London,  1601-26,'  Mr. 
Cokayne  informs  us  that  Sir  John  L^mao, 
Lord  Mayor  1616-17.  "died  unmarried  (i 
very  unusual  thing  tor  one  who  had  been 
Lord  Mayor)."  It  would  be  interesting  to 
know  what  previous  Lord  Mayors  of  IxMadoo 
were  bachelors  during  their  mayoralty,  and 
whether  any  of  them  were  subsequently 
married.  K.  C. 

Cornish  Daisy  Names.  —  The  commoo 
daisy,  Bellis  perennis,  in  Cornish  is  ear,  often 
rendered  egr  Dew.  or  the  daisy  of  Goa.  What 
does  egr  mean  ?  It  suggests  «ye,  especially  m 
connexion  with  the  daisy  (aav's  eye,  A.-0. 
doegesege).  Another  obsolete  Corniah  naoie 
for  the  small  daisy —the  derivation  of  wtucli  I 


9*8.viLjuNBi,i9oi.j       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


429 


desire— 18  ga^ah.  Gadgevraws  and  gadjefraut^ 
appai^ntly  derived  from  gajah,  were  still  io 
use  for  the  ox-eye  daisy  in  1887,  but  I  cannot 
trace  their  meaning.  Megan. 

SiE  Thomas  Cooke,  Alderman  of  Queen- 
hithe  1692  till  his  death  in  1709,  was  ISheriflf 
of  London  1692-3,  M.P.  for  Colchester  1694-5 
and  1698-1705,  and  chairman  of  the  East 
India  Company.  He  appears  to  have  been  a 
wealthy  merchant  and  goldsmith  "at  the  sign 
of  the  Griffin  in  Change  Alley";  was  im- 
prisoned in  the  Tower  for  nearly  twelve 
months  in  1695-6  for  refusing  to  give  answers 
that  were  deemed  satisfactory  before  a  com- 
mittee of  inquiry  in  respect  to  170,000^.  said 
to  have  been  expended  by  the  East  India  Com- 
pany in  secret  service.  One  of  his  daughters 
married  Josiah  Child,  the  banker.  Is  his 
parentage  known?  Le  Neve  describes  him 
as  son  of  " Cook,  a  Hattmaker  in  Lam- 
beth, Surrey,"  but  seems  to  imply  a  kinship 
with  a  family  of  the  name  at  Bury  St. 
Edmunds.    According  to  the  same  authority. 

his  wife  was  Elizabeth,  dau.  of Home,  ot 

Exeter,  and  lived  after  her  husband's  death  in 
Salisburv  Court,  Fleet  Street.  Sir  Charles 
Cooke,  Alderman  of  Bassishaw,  who  received 
knighthood  21  Jan.,  1716/7,  and  was  buried  at 
Hackney  11  Jan.,  1720/1,  is  stated  to  have 
been  a  son  of  Sir  Thomas,  but  ho  is  not  enu- 
merated in  the  family  of  the  latter  in  Le 
Neve's  '  Knights.'  W.  D.  Pink. 

Lowton,  Newton-le* Willows,  Lanoashire. 

Sir  William  Hankford.  — In  the  life 
which  the  '  Diet.  Nat.  Biog.,'  vol.  xxiv.  p.  293, 

g'ves  of  this  Chief  Justice  of  the  king's 
mch  (who  died  in  1422  or  1423)  there  is  no 
reference  to  the  account  (by  B.  W.  G.)  of  the 
Hankford  family  to  be  found  in  the  Gentle- 
man's Magazine^  1849,  pt.  ii.  pp.  491-3.  Accord- 
ing to  this  account,  wnich  looks  like  the  out- 
come of  a  careful  investigation,  the  Chief 
Justice  was  father  of  Richard  Hankford,  who 
died  in  1419^  and  grandfather  (through  that 
son)  of  Sir  Richard  Hankford,  whose  youngest 
daughter  became  Countess  of  Ormond  and 
was  an  ancestress  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  In 
the  *  Dictionary,'  however,  the  Chief  Justice 
appears  as  being  (1)  probably  younger 
brother  of  "Sir"  Richard  Hankford,  who 
"died  in  1419-20,"  and  (2>  father  of  Richard 
Hankford,  the  father  of  tne  above-mentioned 
countess.  Can  any  reader  say  which  of  these 
two  conflicting  views  is  correct? 

According  to  B.  W.  G.  (loc,  cit.),  the  Chief 
Justice  was  of  "  Annery,"  Monkleigh,  as  well 
as  of  Hankford,  Bulk  worthy,  Devon.  In  Mr. 
Kirby's  'Winchester  Scholars'  I  find  a 
Richard  Haukford,  of  "  Awnare  [sic],  Devon," 


admitted  1409;  left  1413.  Probably  "Aw- 
nare "="  Annery."  Was  this  youth  related 
to  the  Chief  Justice  ?  H.  C. 

AsHwooD  Family.— Can  any  of  your  readers 
kindly  inform  me  where  I  can  obtain  par- 
ticulars or  pedigree  of  the  Ashwood  family  1 
The  only  one  I  know  of  lived  at  Madeley,  in 
Shropshire,  towards  the  end  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  but  I  do  not  find  the  name  in  the 
county  history,  so  conclude  the  family  came 
from  elsewhere.  J.  Hamilton. 

Broadwater  Down,  Tunbridge  Weils. 


HERALDIC:   AMERICAN  HERALDRY. 
(9*»»S.  vi.  170;  vii.  117.) 

At  the  latter  reference  your  correspondent 
Pennsylvanian  makes  the  following  obser- 
vations : — 

**  There  is  no  difference  between  Americans  and 
Europeans  so  far  as  the  mere  bearing  of  arms  goes, 
but  in  the  manner  in  which  arms  are  borne  by  the 
two  kindred  peoples  there  is  a  total  difference. 

"  In  Great  Britain  and  other  tiarts  of  Europe  the 
bearing  of  arms  is  regulated  by  special  laws  ;  here 
there  are  no  such  laws ;  hence  arms  are  borne  at 
the  individual  will  of  any  citizen  of  the  United 
States.  The  consequence  is,  that  while  some  coata 
are  borne  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  heraldry, 
others  are  not ;  but,  after  all,  Americans  are  not 
singular  in  that,  as  everybody  knows." 

And  your  correspondent  goes  on  to  say  that 
whilst  the  national  arms  of  the  United  States 
and  of  the  different  states  and  their  cities 
are  a  matter  of  distinct  legislative  enactment, 

"the  existence  and  recognition  of  individual  or 
family  arms  are  but  matters  of  custom— a  custom, 
however,  too  ancient  and  too  firmly  implanted  in 
Americans  to  be  eradicated.'' 

I  have  not  seen  the  earlier  reference  to 
this  matter,  as  I  have  not  been  able  to  bring 
out  my  previous  volumes  of  *  N.  &  Q.*  to  this 
part  of  the  world,  but  I  should  like  to  ask 
whether  it  is  the  custom  for  Americans  to 
adopt  any  armorial  bearings  they  like  at 
random;  or  do  they  restrict  themselves  to 
those  borne  by  persons  owning  the  same 
patronymic  as  themselves,  whether  derived 
trom  an  English  or  a  foreign  source?  Of 
course  I  do  not  refer  to  those  lineally 
descended  from  English  or  foreign  "armigeri." 
America  being  what  she  is,  I  am  not  surprised 
at  seeing  the  remarks  made  by  your  corre- 
spondent, but  I  do  not  think  that  I  am 
compelled  to  deduce  therefrom  that  the 
Americans  are,  as  a  class,  very  much  worse  ^ 
than  their  English  cousins  at  the  present  ' 
day,  or  indeed  at  any  time  since  the  cessa- 


430 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      V^  s.  vn.  June  i,  iwl 


tiou  of  the  Heralds'  Vieitatians,  say,  at  the 
end  of  the  seveoteenth  century* 

We  know  that  many  Americans  are  good 
genealogists— the  late  Col.  Chester,  for  in- 
stance ;  genealogical  societies  abound  in  the 
States,  and  I  have  heard  it  aaid  that  the 
Heralds^  College  itself  ia  principally  kept 
going  by  American  clients.  If  tnis  be  so, 
doea  it  not  indicate  that  the  modern  American 
ia  anxious,  so  far  as  he  can,  to  be  put  on  the 
right  track  with  regard  to  his  aapirationa 
after  heraldic  insignia  ?  for  I  do  not  suppose 
that  the  College  of  Armjg  would  issjie  an 
original  grant  or  arms  to  a  foreigner »  Am  I 
right  in  assuming  this]  My  personal  know- 
ledge of  America  is  mainly  confined  to  a  few 
of  ner  principal  citiea.  I  hope  aome  day  to 
obtain  a  deeper  inssight  into  the  inner  life 
and  customs  of  her  people,  including  the  very 
interesting  and  fervent  pursuit  by  republican 
citizens  of  those  mattei-s  which  may  be 
peculiarly  considered  the  outcome  of  absolute 
monarchy  and  feudaliam.  The  wonder  to  me 
is  to  see  the  American  of  to^ay  playing  with 
such  a  decadent  toy  !  J,  8.  Udal. 

Antigua,  WJ. 


fc 


Appabition  (9^  S.  vii  267),— I  would  refer 
your  correspondent  Mb.  W,  H.  Quarrell  to 

*  Phantasms  of  the  Living,*  by  K  Gurney, 
F.  W.   H.   Myera,  and    F.   Podmore,  vol  i. 

3p-  151-2,  where  the  conclusion  ia  come  to, 
'or  reasons  which  will,  I  think,  convince 
Mil  Qoakrell,  that  the  story  is  mytbicaU 

*  Phantasms  of  the  Living '  being  out  of  print, 
your  correspondent  may  have  difficulty  in 
find  in  IT  a  copy  to  conaulfc  ;  but  if  he  will  call 
any  afternoon  (except  Saturday)  between 
half -past  two  and  halt-past  five  at  the  rooms 
of  tne  Society  for  Paychical  Research,  19, 
Buckingham  Street,  Adelphl,  the  aasi!^tant 
sec  ITS  tar  y  will  be  clad  to  show  him  the 
passage  referred  to  above. 

J,  G,  PtDDINOTON, 

Hon»  Sec-  Society  of  Paychical  Research, 

Browni  Family  (9^  S,  vii.  3S9).— See  Mu- 
t^lan^d  Gtnealoqica  et  Herahiica^  vols,  iii. 
and  iv.,  Second  Series,  at  many  references  in 
both  volumes,  as  to  Browne  of  Cavers  wall  and 
Shredicote,  BtafiFordshirej  Bentley  Hal!  and 
Hungry  Bentley,  Derbyshire,  and  Greenforrl, 
M  iddlesex.  Bro  w  ne  of  Caugh  1  ey  Hall,  Sh  rop* 
shire,  ia  given  at  pp.  180  and  181  in  voL  iv, 
already  quoted. 

Ke«iiiald  Stewaet  BonmNfiTON. 

15,  Markhum  8t|uiLnt,  CheLsea. 

The  genealogical  memoir  referred  to  will 
be  found  in  the  pages  of  Dr.  Ho  ward  *a  Mu- 
^ikknea  Gtnealogtca  et  UeroMica^  to  which  at 


the  time  it  was  contributed.  If  P-  H.  P,  will 
communicace  with  me  direct,  I  shall  be  happy 
to  give  him  any  further  information  that  I 
can  about  it.  G.  Blackeh  Moieoak. 

Preet^jn  Houh«,  near  Wingham,  Kent, 

Cambeidgb  UimnattBiTY  ts  the  Sevih- 
TEBNTH  Centubt  (9^^  S.  vii,  388).— In  reply 
to  Laigus's  inquiry  with  re«ard  to  the  best 
authorities  to  cKinsult  on  the  university  in 
general  and  St,  John's  College  in  particular 
allow  me  to  recommend  the  following  :— 

L  The  University  of  Cambridge  from  the  Earliat 
Times  k>  the  Roy&l  Injunctiouii  of  lS35t  By  Janwi 
Bibs  Mullinfier,  M.A.,  St,  John's  College  C«d- 
bridge.    2  vole,,  Cftif) bridge,  1873* 

%  AthenjE  CantabngieiisftB.  By  Cb&rles  Henry 
Cooper,  F.y.A.,  and  Thompaon  Cooper.  *J  T^k^ 
CAnibridge,  185S. 

3,  History  of  the  Collw  of  St.  John  the 
Evangelist^  Garabrid|fe.  By  Thomaa  Bak«r,  ED.t 
ejected  Fellow.  Edited  for  the  Syudiea  of  th* 
University  Pre««  by  John  E.  B,  Mayor,  ALA,, 
Fellow  of  St.  Joho'$  College.  2  vols.,  C*mbrid^, 
1869. 

C  Cambridge  Characteristics  m  the  gewDteeeui 
Century,  By  J&iDee  Baaa  Mill  linger,  B,A.,  of 
St.  John's  College,  Cambftdge.    Lond.  and  Dtfnk, 

Mr,  Ti  F.  Scott,  Bursar  of  the  College,  w 
preparing  hiographical  notes  of  all  the  mem- 
bers of  St.  John's  Uollege^  and  if  Laicub  will 
write  to  him  I  have  no  doubt  he  will  give 
him  all  the  information  he  ha^  about  the 
memberi  of  the  college  whom  LAtcvs  inquires 
about.  J.  K.  FosTBS. 

Delaooa  Bay  {%^  S.  vii.  407\— It  has  often 
been  stated  that  Delagoa  Bay  wm  onee 
"offered  to  England.''  It  has  aevera]  times 
been  stated  that  it  wa^j  offered  to  and  refuiaed 
by  Mr.  Disraeli's  Government  when  Lord 
Carnarvon  wag  Secretary  of  State,  It  was 
once  stated,  but  imraeaiately  con  trad  ietad, 
that  it  was  offered  to  and  refused  by 
Mr,  Gladstone^  Careful  inquiry  has  fe.ilea 
to  produce  an^  evideoce  of  a  formal  offer  at 
any  time.  It  is  possible  that  before  187S  it 
may  have  been  supijos^  by  Lord  Camarvan 
to  have  been  obtainable.  B* 

*  Kathxebk  Mavodrnkek  '  (^  S.  vii,  388). 
—The  words  of  this  song  were  Tsritten  by 
Mrs.  Julia  Crawford,  a  native  of  Cavai), 
Ireland,  but  long  resident  in  Wiltshire.  The 
mudc  of  the  song  was  composed  by  Frederick 
Nicholls  Crouch.  The  song  wa^;  puUi^ed  by 
D'Almaine.  Soho  Square,  about  1840. 

W.  H.  CoHviiraL 

This  song  appeared  in  the  M^ropoiitam 
Magatifie^  London,  1830-40,  and  waa  «0l  to 
music  by  F.  Nidi  oils  Crouch.    I  have  ptfr 


Q*  a  viLJcN.  1.1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


431 


sessed  for  the  last  sixty  vears  a  copy  of  the 
twelfth  edition,  published  by  D'Almaine^  20, 
Soho  Square,  in  his  series  entitled  "Irish 
Songs."  David  J.  O'Donoghue,  in  his  *  Poets 
of  Ireland,'  London,  1892.  gives  Mrs.  Craw- 
ford's Christian  name  as  Julia.  Anne  Craw- 
ford (1734-1801)  was  an  actress,  who  married 
Spranger  Barry  of  the  same  profession,  and 
at  his  death  took  Mr.  Crawford,  a  Dublin 
manager,  for  her  third  husband. 

EvERARD  Home  Colrman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Vanishing  London  :  Christ's  Hospital 
(9^^  S.  vii.  205,  296).— I  have  looked  at  my 
copy  of  'The  Pictorial  Handbook  of  London  * 
(Bohn,  1864),  p.  717,  but  have  failed  to  find 
there  the  expression  of  an  opinion  that 
Christ's  Hospital  "is  aU  bad."  WUl  Mr. 
Thomas  kindly  point  out  the  sentence  on 
which  he  bases  this  assertion  ? 

John  T.  Page. 

West  HaddoD,  Northamptonshire. 

Ships  of  War  on  Land  (9"»  S.  vii.  147. 236, 
296,  364).— Tarbert  on  Loch  Fyne  should  not 
be  overlooked.  It  is  famous  for  the  achieve- 
ments of  Malcolm,  the  bare-footed  King  of 
Norway,  and  Robert  the  Bruce.  Pennant  in 
his  •  Tour  in  Scotland '  expressed  the  opinion 
that  it  should  be  considered  **the  Tarbat 
of  the  kingdom,"  because  of  the  historical 
prominence  of  the  feats  associated  with  it  as 
a  convenient  isthmus.  In  'The  Lord  of  the 
Ides,*  rV.  xii.,  Scott,  with  a  slight  licence  in 
the  matter  of  chronology,  describes  the  pulling 
of  Bruce's  galley  from  the  shores  ot  West 
Loch  Tarbert  to  Loch  Fyne,  the  adventurous 
patriot  being  then  on  the  passage  from  Skye 
to  Arran  :— 

They  held  unwonted  way ; 
Up  Tarbat's  western  lake  they  bore, 
Then  dracned  their  bark  the  isthmus  o'er, 
As  far  as  Xilmaconners  shore, 
Upon  the  eastern  bay. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  at  the  present 
time  "  Tarbert '/  is  the  name  for  the  Loch 
Fyne  localityj  while  "Tarbet"  is  the  term 
used  for  a  similar  position  and  a  hamlet 
between  Loch  Long  and  Loch  Lomond. 

Thomas  Baynb. 

"  Here  Robert  Bmoe  held  his  court,  and  James  II. 
was  also  here:  the  former  had  his  boats  carried 
hither  across  the  narrow  isthmus  from  West  Loch 
Tarbert,  in  the  manner  so  vividly  described  by 
Scott  in  *  The  Lord  of  the  Isles.'  The  word  *  Tar- 
bert,*  in  fact,  means  boat-carrying,  and  is  often  met 
with  in  similar  places  in  Scotland,  between  two 
arms  of  the  sea,  or  between  two  fresh-water  lochs, 
where  these  Tarberts  were  similar  to  the  Canadian 
'^portagee,'  the  North  American  '  carrving-placee,' 
and  the  Grecian  *  diolkoi.*  "-Owcc  a  Week,  Third 
Series,  iii.  38  (No.  66,  23  Jan.,  1869). 


Some  years  ago  I  saw  a  project  for  carrying 
ships  by  rail  across  one  oi  the  American 
isthmuses.  Thomas  J.  Jeakes. 

Wm.  Mobris  as  a  Man  of  Business  (9**» 
S.  vi.  406,  496  ;  vii.  54,  118,  172,296).— Ibaou^ 
runs  off  the  lines,  and  wilfully  imagines  an 
attack  where  none  is  either  made  or  intended. 
Dean  Swift  is  not  the  only  writer  whose  acts 
disprove  his  arguments.  If  God  does  not 
regard  on  what  we  dine,  the  dean  would  not 
have  submitted  to  a  fast  which  he  disliked. 
I  cannot  enter  into  a  controversy  unfitted  for 
these  pages.  W.  C,  B. 

Simon  Fbaseb  (8"»  S.  x.  156,  223;  9^  S.  vi. 
157^  338,  433 ;  vii.  16,  51,  75,  115,  192,  232).— 
It  IS  very  "easy  to  know**  what  I  want  in 
the  way  of  a  picture  of  Simon  Fraser.  My 
Quest  is  for  an  oil  or  miniature  sketch  or 
drawing  of  the  face  of  Simon  Fraser,  the 
eldest  son  of  Lord  Lovat  who  was  beheaded. 
General  Fraser  commanded  the  78th  High- 
landers at  Quebec,  and  died  1782.  There  are 
plenty  of  engravings  of  old  Lord  Lovat,  and 
one  of  Brigadier-General  Simon  Fraser,  who 
was  killed  at  Stillwater  a  day  or  two  before 
Burgoyne  surrendered  at  Saratoga  Land  there 
is  an  engraving  of  Col.  Lovat,  F.K.S.  This 
latter  man  was  a  half-brother  of  General 
Simon  Fraser.  I  do  not  believe  he  was  ever 
painted  in  oil  or  en^i^raved.  My  impression 
IS  that  there  is  a  miniature  somewnere.  I 
hope  Mb.  Julian  Mabshall  may  be  able  to 
find  it.  J.  Ross  Robertson. 

Obientation  in  Intebments  (9**»  S.  vi.  167, 
276,  335  ;  vii.  195,  338).— In  the  four  new 
churches  I  mentioned  there  are  no  inter- 
ments. I  am  glad  R.  S.  noted  this.  But  in 
the  same  district  are  two  important  older 
churches— which  do  not  orientate— beneath 
which  are  many  bodies  resting,  viz.,  St.  Mary- 
lebone  parish  church  and  Holy  Trinity, 
Marylebone.  These  both  lie— so  far  as  one 
ruay  judge  from  their  weathercocks— N.N. W. 
by  S.O.E.,  the  altar  being  at  the  north  end 
at  Holy  Trinity  and  at  the  south  end  at 
St.  Marylebone.  Both  stand  in  clear  spaces 
and  were  built  long  before  other  structures 
crowded  them  into  any  special  point  of  the 
compass.  It  would  be  interesting  to  know 
how  the  dead  lie  in  the  vaults  at  Holy 
Trinity  ;  there  are  five  marble  tablets  on  the 
vvall  of  the  aisle  to  the  west  which  relate  to 
persons  buried  "  in  vault  beneath.'' 

St.  Marylebone  has  six  on  the  east  aisle 
wall  which  set  forth  the  same  informa- 
tion ;  two  more  which  say  "  near  this 
place " ;  one  ^  in  a  catacomo  under  this 
church."     Three  tablets  at   the  north  end 


432 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       i9*  8.  vil  jdn.  i,  iwl 


tiay  "la  a  vault"  ;  eight  on  the  west  aisle 
wall  ditto  ;  one,  *'  by  virtue  of  a  Faculty 
from  the  Biahop  of  Winchesters  (ISl?), 
"beneath  this  monument";  another  ** in  the 
east  vault''  near  the  altar;  one  "in  the 
vault  of  the  Earle  of  Heverley  beneath"  (1846), 
When  1  wrote  before  I  was  not  thinking 
of  inter  men  ta,  but  of  Mr.  AEjaoTT^a  words 
(9^  S.  vi.  277)  that  **  churches  in  England 
have  always  and  by  continuous  use  in  the 
Church  of  England— from  early  times,  through 
the  Middle  Ages,  down  to  the  present  day — 
been  placed  east  and  west,"  ana  his  inference 
as  to  "  the  Roman  Mii^sion."  If  anybody  will 
take  a  walk  from  Christ  Church,  Lancaster 
Gate,  along  to  Holy  Trinity,  Euston  Road, 
seeking  for  the  true  Church  by  orientation, 
he  wiir  fetch  up  at  the  Primitive  Methodist 
Chapel,  Seymour  Place,  which  alone,  of  the 
many  places  of  worship— so  far  as  I  know- 
in  that  direct  line,  orientates  properly. 

Ibaoui^. 

"  CoLPMARA  '*  (B'^  B.  vil  249).— I  quote  the 
following  from  *  A  Week  at  the  Lizard/  by 
the  Rev.  C.  A,  Johns  (Loudon,  S.P.G.K.,  1848), 
pp.  64-5  :— 

'*  A  sm^Iar  custom  c^tifitft  in  the  parish  of  Lajude- 
wcdnack,  which  aeeme  to  have  refarance  to  a  time 
when  the  fast  of  Lent  wa«  more  rigidly  observed 
than  H  tfl  at  presept.  On  Shrove  Tuesday  the  poor 
children,  from  theagi^s  of  aix  totweh^e*  pemrubtilat^ 
the  parish  begging  for  Colptrra,  probabl)*  an  old 
Oornifth  word-  but  whatever  be  its  TTieaninfi,  they 
ejEpect  to  receive  eatables  or  halfpence.  Aa  few 
refuse  to  give,  they  collect  during  the  day  a  tolerable 
liooly  ifi  tne  ahape  of  money,  ofsge,  but  is,  applet,  ic. 
The  cUHtom  hats  oxiated  from  time  immemorial,  but 
none  of  the  inhabitants  are  acouaiiited  with  ita 
origin.  Tradition  asserts  that  tne  Lizard  was  at 
flome  very  remote  period  colonizBd  by  SpaniBh 
emi^i^anta.  There  ia  utill  something  vary  Spanish 
about  irhe  features  and  complexton  of  many  of  the 
inhabitants^  and  there  are  one  or  two  namt^a  which 
indicate  the  i^nie  extraction.  Poavibly  the  custom 
alluded  to  above  may  have  been  introduced  from 
the  Con  tine  nt. 

^*  Since  writing  the  above,  I  have  Ijccn  told  that 
in  the  parishes  of  Marystowe  and  Lamertoii^  in 
DevonahtrOi  the  children  aesemble  in  lar^  p*rtieB 
on  the  aame  day,  and  go  from  door  to  door  eingitig ;  — 

Pancake,  pancake  1  a  penny  for  my  labour  ; 

I  aoe  by  the  string  there  *s  a  good  dame  withini 

I  see  by  the  latch  I  shall  have  a  good  catch  ; 

Give  m%  %  penny,  i^nd  away  I  be  go." 

Thomas  J.  Jeaees. 
Tower  Houne,  New  Harat>ian, 

We  have  the  same  custom  in  my  little 
native  town  of  Zerbst,  in  the  Duchy  of 
Anlmlt,    where    thn    great  Catherine  II.   of 


brezelfL,  AschemUUwoch  Brezeln)  they  receive. 
The  crB^knek  are  struDg,  and  the  striDg 
hangs  down  from  their  necks.  The  children 
are  armed  with  Ae^hen^uten,  branches  of  fir  or 
pine.  With  them  they  beat— some  only  sym- 
bolically, but  others,  le^js  reserved,  rather 
strongly— the  people  they  visit  i  ne  amhem 
gie  ab^  i.e.^  cleans©  them  from  their  sins.  A 
strange  coincidence  between  the  custom  ob- 
served at  the  Lizard  and  that  at  Zerbst  is 
this :  the  bogging  is  only  done  in  the  fore- 
noon ;  and  the  custom  does  not  prevail,  so  far 
aa  my  knowledge  goe%  in  the  other  towns  of 
Anhalt.  Dr.  G.  KfiirBaSB. 

Berhn, 

Latih  Motto  (9**  S,  vi.  469  ;  m,  12,  312).- 
Surely  "Lustrum  sine  filliatione **  is  dog 
Latin^  from  ftdlinatio^  formed  wrongly  from 
fullonia  {ars\  and  means  polish  without 
artiScial  cleauing*       Herbert  A,  Strong. 

Old  London  Taveeks  (9^  S.  vii.  69, 154,236). 
"There  was  another  '*  Temple  Coffee- house," 
perhaps  the  predecesijor  of  that  in  Devereux 
Court,  in  the  days  of  Queen  Anne  in  Clifford's 
Inn  Passage,  See  John  Ash  ton's  *  Social  Life 
in  the  Reign  o!  Queen  Anne'  {1897),  p.  462. 

J.    HoLDMN    MacMiCMAEL. 

Saegbnt  Family  (9^  S.  vii.  329).— There  ii 

a  pedigree  of  this  family  in  Burke^s  *  History 
of  the  Commoners  *  (vol  iv.  p.  123),  1838,  then 
represented  by  Charlotte  Sargent,  relict  of 
Jonn  Sargent^  Esq,,  of  WooJ  -  Lavington. 
Wool -Laving  ton  is  near  Pet  worth  in  Sussex^ 
und  Emily  Sargent,  theeldejstof  his  surviving 
dauehters,  married  Samuel  Wilberforce,  after- 
wards Bishop  of  Oxford,  and  then  of  Win- 
chester. They  are  both  buried  in  the  church- 
yard of  that  f>atish.  The  arms  of  Sargent 
are  given  :  Arg.,  a  chevron  between  tnree 
dolphins  naiant  sable.  The  estate  catne  to 
Bishop  Wilberforce  ia  right  of  his  wife  as 
heir  John  Pickfobo,  M.A. 

Newbourne  Bectory,  Woodbridge. 

I  do  not  know  the  family  in  question,  bat 
the  Hurname  is  common  enough.  There  was 
a  tobacconist  of  the  name  in  the  W4»tem 
Road,  Hove,  BriEhton^  1876^7,  and  there  is  i 
shoemaker  so  called  in  Heath  Road,  T^^cken- 
ham.  Thomas  J.  Jeaioes. 

"Anyone,"  "Evbryohb"  (9**»  S.  vii  206, 
294,  358).— I  cannot  assent  to  C,  C,  B.  s  asser- 
tion that  "  there  is  less  need  to  distinguish 
between   'Any  body  *  and    'anybody'  thao 


Russia  was  born  in  1729.  On  Ash  Wednesday  I  between  *any  one'  and  'anyone.*"    There  is 


the  boys  of  the  lower  classes  (as  to  the  girls 
I  am  not  sure)  go  begging  around  the  place, 
and  it  is  mostly  eggs  and  cracknels  (Fasten- 


as  wide  a  difference  between  anybody  and 
any  body  found,  say,  in  the  water  as  between 
life  and  death.     There  are  abo  other  obvioas 


9»  8.  viLJuN.  1,1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


433 


inata^iees  in  which  the  same  two  forms  aro 
required  for  perspicuity .  On  the  other  hand 
the  "practical  utility"  of  the  single- word 
form  "  anyone ''  ia  non-existent  "  Any  one  " 
;y>^per  for  all  uses,  and  the  editora  of  the 
H.ELD/  aji^ree  with  me  (see  their  articles  on 
Anyone  'and  *  Every  oue*X  It  is  undoubtedly 
the  analogy  of  "anybody"  and  ** anything" 
that  has  led  to  the  form  "anyone?  The 
analop%  however,  ia  defective.  "One,"  as  I 
said,  IS  not  on  all  fours  with  *'  body/'  because^ 
while  the  latter  admitH  of  composition  with 
ail  the/>wr  particles  "any,"  "every/'  "some/' 

*"  L*  u^"  **"^*'  *'^^  ^^^  ^^^^^  appear  in  union 
with  '  one " ;  hence  the  abominable  incon- 
8i8tencT»  in  modern  print,  of  "no  one  "  along- 
dde  of  "anyone/'  The  typographical  fad- 
dist s  formula}  are  these:  "Anyone  could  do 
It,"  "  Any  one  of  them  could  do  it,"  and, 
sp^aKing  t..g,  of  books,  "Any  one  would  suit 
ma  The  phrase  "any  one  particle"  need 
not  be  regarded,  being  pleonastic  for  "anv 
paiticla"  Why  those  diisti  actions  of  "anyone"'' 
for  persons  indefinitely,  and  of  "any  one" 
for  persons  definitely  and  things  1  And  if  wo 
are  to  have  "  anyone,"  Ac,  why  not "  eachone," 
as  in  the  olden  time  ?  F.  Adams, 

Dktachbd  Shibt  (3"*  S.  vi,  266  ;  9^  S.  vii. 
11,  295), —The  list  of  the  editions  of  Little- 
tons dictionary  civen  at  the  last  reference  is 
not  complete,   I  nave  a  copy  dated  MDCXcm, 

C.  C.  B. 

"Ceono"  (9"*  a  vii  346).— There  ia  little 
doubt  as  to  the  meaning  of  this  word  in  the 
quotations.  It  is  a  muck  fork  (Halliwell),  or 
dung  fork,  having  the  tine^  bent  at  right 
angles  to  the  halt,  to  enable  the  manure  to 
be  pulled  out  over  the  tail  of  the  cart  into 
small  heaps^  in  a  row,  which  are  afterwards 
spread  with  a  fork.  As  to  the  etymology, 
the  word  is  possibly  nothing  but  a  jumble  of 
"  crook  "  and  "  prong,"  H.  P.  L. 

Wben  living  in  Kew  Zealand  in  a  neigh- 
bourhood where  the  greater  number  of  my 
fellow-settlers  were  Scotch,  I  used  to  hear 
this  word  applied  to  a  four -pronged  imple- 
luent  like  a  potato  fork,  bent  near  the  loining 
of  the  prongs  and  with  a  straight  handle,  used 
for  dragging  manure  out  of  a  cart. 

Thomas  Awdey, 

'Diis  would  probably  be  a   "dung-hook/' 

an  implement  standing  in  the  same  relation 
to  the  dung  or  pitch  fork  as  the  ordinary 
garden  hoe  does  t)o  the  Dutch  hoe,  Lt.^  with 
tines  or  prongs  bent  down  tow  a  ids  the  handle 
instead  of  standing  away  from  and  nearly  in 
»  line  with  ik  "  Urong  "  or  "erange  "  would 
probably  be  the  isame  word  as  "  crank "  or 


**cranke,*'   and  so    applicable  to   anything 
bent,  Thomas  J*  Jkakes. 

DurroK  Family  m^  S.  vi,  409,  617;  vii. 
54,  117,  174,  293),™ If  M.  will  kindly  look  into 
Ormerod^s  ■  Histor^^  of  Cheshire^'  he  will  find 
that  I  was  correct  in  saying  that  the  Buttons 
of  Hatton^  who  on  tlie  extinction  of  the  elder 
line  soon  after  Poictiers  became  Duttons  of 
Dutton,  bore  the  fret  argent  in  the  second 
and  third  quarters  of  their  coat. 

It  appears  upon  further  research  that 
instead  of  the  Des pence rs  being,  as  many 
thought,  descended  from  the  Dtittons,  the 
Button  a  were  descended  from  the  Bespencers 
in  the  female  line ;  and  I  think  there  is  pri:jof 
that  the  fret  in  the  Dutton  coat,  and  also  in 
that  of  Fonleshurst,  had  nothing  to  do  with 
Poictiers,  but  was  borne  by  these  houses 
earlier.  Tlie  Duttons  would  appear  to  have 
taken  their  coat  from  the  Desi>encers.  Mr. 
Horace  Ilound,  in  his  *  Studies  on  Feei-age 
and  Family  History/  says  :^ 

"Tho  duo  to  the  Qiigin  of  the  DeupoDcorB !»  to 
be  sought  LD  tho  descscrit  of  tha  tnfinor  of  Amcsby. 
Thia  irmnor  having  fiac heated  to  the  Crown  with 
the  rest  of  the  fief  of  Peverel  of  Nottingham^ 
Henry  IL  bestowed  it  on  Hugh  de  Beaoc^hamp, 
and  Hugh  proceeded  to  enfeoff  there  Klyaa  Dis- 
p«n9ator,  Radnlphus  de  la  Mare,  ftud  Hugo  Alueto, 
The&o  thi'ee  were  ropreacrit^d  in  or  about  1212  by 
Thorn aa  I>ii^|>enaator^  Jfimes  de  Mam,  and  Huiih  de 
Alneto.  Thomas  waa  succeeded  in  hti»  quarter  fee 
at  Erendcbi  by  his  younger  brother  Hugh," 

But  he  left  a  daughter  Mnriel,  who  married 

Hugh  Dutton  of  Dutton  ;  and  what  more 
likely  than  that  he  adopted  the  Despeooer 
coat  minus  the  bend  ]  But  how  did  the 
Despeucera  get  their  arms?  Mr.  Horace 
Kound  again  nelps.    Ho  says  :— 

**  Start  on  the  coat  of  Maude viile.  Quarterly  or 
and  ipiles,  which  Beaachamp  of  Bedford  adopted 
as  a  relation,  with  the  addition  of  a  bend.  Then 
Despencer  would  tak«  thiii  eoatt  altering  the  tincture 
of  the  first  and  fourth  qn  arte  re,  and  adding  a  fret 
in  the  ^ei^^ond  and  third  for  differencek  It  Beems 
I  hat  fret  and  f retty  were  Hometimea  used  for  difler- 
onciog*" 

With  respect  to  the  coat  Fouleshurst  of 
Barthomleyj  the  fact  that  tlie  elder  V>ranch 
bore  f retty  is  a  proof  that  tliis  coat  in  older 
than  the  date  of  the  beginning  of  the  Barth- 
omley  brancli,  and  so  older  thati  Poictiers. 

There  is  not  eqnal  proof  with  respect  to 
the  age  of  the  coat^  of  Delves  and  Hawk* 
stone,  but  both  of  the^e  families  held  under 
the  Audleys  before  Poictiers,  liichard  de 
Delves  was  constable  of  the  Audley  castle  of 
Helegh  before  Poictiern  ;  and  the  Hawks  tones 
of  Wrinehill,  which  is  within  a  mile  or  so  of 
Helegli  Castle^  held  Smallwood  under  the 
Audleys  early  in  the  fourteenth  century. 


434 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9*8.vilj0k«i,i9ol 


I  find  that  1  waa  misunderstood  in  saying 
that  I  believed  Kalph  Sneyd  of  Keele  to  be 
Baron  Audley  by  tenure.  I  ought  perhaps 
to  have  said  that  the  Sneyds  have  held  for  a 
long  time,  I  believe,  the  fief  of  this  barony— 
in  fact,  the  Castle  of  Helegh  in  the  reign  of 
Elizabeth  belonged  to  them.  To  claim  for 
the  Sneyd  a  any  right  to  the  peerage  of 
Audley  was  not,  of  course,  my  intention,  nor 
did  I  think  that,  strictly  speaking,  there  are 
any  longer  barons  by  tenure;  but^  as  there 
were  several  AlditheleyH  barons  by  tenure 
before  Nicholas  do  Alditheley  was  sum- 
moned 1297,  and  as  the  Sneyds  now  hold 
and  have  done  for  a  long  time  the  whole  or 
the  greater  part  of  the  old  fief  and  are  really 
Alditheleysi,  1  thought  I  might  bo  pardoned 
for  mentioning  such  uncommon  facts. 

Some  have  said  that  the  Alditheley  s  adopted 
the  arff|S  of  the  De  Verdons  of  Alton  in  Staf* 
fordshlre,  their  chief  lords,  interchanging  the 
tinctures  for  difference.  There  is  no  absolute 
proof  of  this,  although  it  is  not  unlikely. 
They  were  not  descended  from  the  Verdons 
in  tne  male  line,  and  a^  yet  I  have  never 
seen  any  proof  worthy  of  consideration  that 
they  were  in  the  female  line-  Tlie  first 
Adam  de  Aldithelega  was  the  son  of  Gamel 
the  Saxon,  Domesday  holder  of  Alditheley. 
Liulf  de  AJdredeslega,  who,  according  to  the 
Staffordshire  Pipe  Roll  of  11S9,  lay  under  a 
charge  for  the  murder  of  Gamel*  was  not  of 
this  family  at  all,  but  was  called  Aldredeslega 
from  Alderley,  two  miles  north  of  Leek.  Nor 
was  the  murdered  Gamel  the  Domesday  1086 
owner  of  Alditheley,  near  Newcastle,  but  was 
Gamel  of  Tettes worth,  which  is  about  a  mile 
from  Alderley  ;  and  the  murder,  according  to 
tradition,  toiok  place  in  Solomon's  Hollow, 
two  miles  from  Leek  on  the  Leek  and  Buxton 
road.  How  easily  antiquaries  follow  one 
another  in  any  assumption  I  One  would 
have  thought  tnat  any  Anglo -iSaxon  scholar 
would  have  seen  at  a  glance  that  the  place- 
name  Aldredeslega  was  not  the  same  as 
Aldithelega.  The  end  of  each  is  the  .^tame ; 
the  beginning  of  one  is  a  man's  namei, 
the  beginning  of  the  other  is  a  woman *s. 
In  proof  of  this  it  may  be  noticed  that 
Aid  redes  lega  is  the  Domesday  apelling  of 
Alderley  in  Cheshire,  showing  that  in  those 
early  times  Alderley,  near  Leek  in  Stafforfi- 
shire^  would  appear  in  the  Pipe  HoU  in  the 
form  Aldrede^lega.  Further,  the  very  charge 
for  the  murder  is  peculiar,  including  as  tt 
does  ten  hawks  and  ten  deerhounds,  pointing, 
I  think,  to  the  situation  of  Alderley  and 
Tettesworth,  which  were  in  the  Forest  of 
Leek  and  Macclesfield,  G.  Snbtd* 

Chafftieton  ReobOfy« 


St.  Uhristopheb  and  Laughtek  (9*^  B, 
vii.  247, 356),— In  an  undated  and  anonymous 
booklet  publiijhed  by  James  Bums,  *St. 
Christopher  :  a  Fainting  in  Ford  holme 
Church,^  will  be  found  the  l^end  very 
beautifully  told  for  children.  My  copy  w 
bound  up  with  a  number  of  tracts^  mostly 
by  F.  W;  Faber,  and  all  dated  in  the  thirtiei 
and  early  forties.  From  the  B.M.  Catalogue 
I  see  that  the  Ven.  John  Allen,  Archdeacon 
of  Salop,  was  the  author,  and  that  the  little 
work  was  republished  in  1889,  In  the  Pemmj 
Pmi,  vol.  XXX,  (1880),  pp.  350,  278,  there  are 
references  to  the  above  and  other  veraions  of 
the  legend,  J,  E  OWBK. 

Sir  Simeon  Steward  (9^  S.  vii,  367).— 
An  account  of  this  poet  is  given  in  the 
'  Dictionary  of  National  Biography.'  He  wis 
akin  to  Elizabeth  Steward,  the  mother  of 
Oliver  Cromwell,  and  is  supposed  to  have 
died  about  1629,  The  son  of  Sir  Mark 
Steward  by  his  wife  Anna,  the  daughter  of 
Dr.  Bobert  Huiok,  one  of  Queen  Elizabeth's 
physicians,  he  was  educated  at  Trinity  Hall, 
Cambridcei  where  be  lived  for  many  years. 
The  "  D.N*B.*  concludes  ;— 

"Inspired,  it  would  appear,  by  Spenser  Ajd 
Shakeapearo,  he  wrote  a.  graceful  poem  called  *The 
Faery  iCing/  This  appeared  under  his  natne  in 
a  volume  entitled  *  A  Dei^cription  of  the  Kiog  4 
Queene  of  Faydea.  Their  Habit,  Fare,  their  Abode, 
Pompe,  &  State*  (London,  for  Richard  Harper, 
1635,  8vo).  IStcward's  contribution  to  the  vrilmne 
waa  reprinted  in  *  Musarum  Delieiw '  (1656)^  aod  in 
the  rare  volume  of  '  Bibliographical  MiaceilaDiea 
printed  at  Oxford  in  1813  by  Dr.  Bliea,  who  made 
several  MS.  notes  relatinE  to  'The  Fajcry  King '  in 
hiaeopy,  now  iti  the  B,M.  The  versioo  he  prinU 
woB  discovered  by  him  among  the  Rawliaaon  M8o. 
in  the  Bodleian,  and  differs  in  numerous  points 
from  that  in  the  *  Muaamm  Delioias.*  Stewards 
poem  reappeared  in  Mr.  A.  E,  Waiters  selection  of 
fairy  poems,  entitled  *  Elfin  Muale*  (London,  18S^ 
l2mo)."  ^     „    ^ 

For  the  author  of  *  The  Faery  King '  «id 
other  poems,  references  to  this  knight  and 
hia  family,  see  T^  S.  iii  326  ;  8**  a  v,  169, 194 
EvBBARD  HOMB  CoLEMAN. 

71 1  Brecknock  Road. 

BoHAPAETE  Ballad  {%^  S.  vL  349 ;  vU.  193, 
295),— The  late  Walter  Thorn  bury,  in  his 
'Crisa-CrofkH  Journey  a,'  publiahecl  in  187S, 
gives  these  sitanzas  as  sang  by  a  Tes»n 
i-anger  on  the  voyage  from  Liverpool  to  New 
York  after  a  holiday  in  England.  Thomhury 
says  (voh  i,  p,  98)  :— 

'*  Before  1  leave  Amoe X  muat  jiive  one  af  liis 

most  curloua  songs -—one  k»  which  I  attach  ^tJfj 
a  ^ini^lar  exanmlc  of  the  gradual  eomiptioii  » 
ballads  when  oraily  handed  liowu^  aiMl  akn^  ft 


s»&yiLJtnai.i90L]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


435 


exemplification  of  the  tone  of  feeliog  with  whioh 
Napoleon,  m  his^  later  days,  rnxml  have  been 
regarde<i  by  the  French  West  Indians,  to  one  cif 
phom  we  may  fairly,  I  think »  attrihuta  the  AUthor- 
aliip  of  the  following  strange  i>oem.  I  should  men- 
tioD  that  the  tuoe  to  which  it  h  sung  ia  exceedingly 
good,  and  very  tender  and  mournful  in  ite  cadence. 
The  corruptions  of  the  text  (which  1  took  down 
from  ArooB'v  lips)  I  have  carefully  preserved,  from 
their  oddity  ana  cnrioBity.  I  do  not  ihink  the  song 
ia  in  print  ;— 

^apolton  at  tH  Jfit  o/SL  HrlmBk. 
Bonaparte  *s  returned  from  the  wars  of  all  fighting, 
He  ha»  gone   lu  a  place  which   he  1!  never  take 

delight  in  ; 
He  will  iit  there  and  t«ll  of  the  scenes  that  he  has 

Been,  0» 
With  his  heart  so  full  of  woe  on  the  lale  of  Saint 

Helena. 

Louisa  she  mouma  for  her  husband  who's  departed, 

She  dreams  when  abe  sleeps^ and  ahe  wakea  broken- 
hearted ; 

Not  a  friend  to  console  her,  even  though  he  might 
have  seen  her, 

Bui  she  monms  when  she  thinks  of  the  Isle  of  Baint 
Helena. 

No  more  in  8aint  Cloud  ahall  we  walk  in  splendour. 
Or  go  in  clouds  like  the  great  J^ir  Alexander, 
The  younj?  King  of  Komo  and  the  Prin*>e  of  Uuiana 
Says  he  'fl  bring  bis  father  home  from  the  Isle  of 
Baint  Helena. 

All  ye  who  have  wealth,  pray  beware  of  ambition, 
Or  «ome  decree  of  fate  may  noon  change  your  con* 

dition. 
Be  ye  steadfast  And  true,  for  what's  to  come  ye  can 

tell  ne'er ; 
Perhaps  ye  may  end  your  days  on  the  Isle  of  Balnt 

Helena. 
TJie  rude  rushing  waves  all  round  the  shore  are 

washing, 
The  great  oillowa  heave,  against  the  wild  rocks 

dafihing. 
He  may  look  to  the  moon,  of  the  great  Queen  Diana, 
But  his  eyen  are  on  the  waves  that  surround  Saint 

Helena. 

Thorn  bo  rv  states  in  the  preface  that  his 
book,  though  publish od  in  1BT3|  was  written 
some  years  before,  on  the  ove  of  the  outbreak 
of  the  gr^t  CivO  War*  We  may  therefore 
take  it  that  he  heard  the  above  song  in  1359 
or  1890,  The  differencOH  between  this  and 
the  version  givea  by  Mk.  Pattersok  at  9^"*  S. 
vi.  349  are  very  interesting  to  note. 

W.  B.  H, 

Akthojct  Fortescoe  (9***  S,  vii.  327).— 
Without  having  made  a  study  of  the  For- 
tescue  family,  or  having  had  aji  opportunity 
of  seeing  Lord  Clermont's  *"  Riat.  ram.  For- 
teacue,'  I  send  one  or  two  items  of  information 
whieh  may  perhaps  help  H.  C.  Sir  Adrian 
Fortescne  wa»  twice  married.  His  Brst  wife 
iras  Anne  (died  1518^  daughter  of  Sir  William 
Stonor,  and  sister  and  heir  of  John  Stonor. 
His  Jiecond  wile  was  Anne  (widow  of  Sir 


GOes  Greville),  daughter  of  Sir  William  Elede. 
Sir  William  Stonor  at  the  time  of  his  death 
was  seised  of  "two  parts  of  the  roan  or  of 
Parkes,  and  the  alternate  presentation  of  the 
church  of  Bryghtwell,  co.  Oxon,  held  of  John 
Cotysmore."  Sir  William  Rede's  grandmother 
was  a  daughter  of  Sir  John  Cotysmore  of 
Brigbtwell  ;  thus  both  of  Sir  Adrian's  wives 
were  connected  with  that  place.  Sir  Adrian's 
widow  married  for  her  third  husband  Thomas 
Parry  (a  noted  Protestant  during  the  reign 
of  Queen  Mary,  afterwards  knighted  and 
made  comptroller  of  her  household  by  Queen 
EHzabetb),  and  apparently  they  resided  at 
Brigbtwell,  for  not  only  does  Anthony  For- 
tescue  arrive  at  Winchester  from  that  place 
in  1549,  but  in  1558  Thomas  Parry  (after- 
wards Sir  Thomas  Parry,  the  ambassador), 
the  eldest  son  of  this  third  marriage,  and 
then  aged  fourteen,  ap]3ears  as  a  Winchester 
scholar  from  Brightwell  Thus  Lord  Cler- 
mont  appears  to  be  correct  in  his  statement 
that  the  Winchester  scholar  who  helped  to 
welcome  Edward  VL  when  he  visited  the 
college  was  Sir  Adrian^a  son. 

Foster  in  his  'Alumni  Oxon.'  aava  that 
Anthony  Fortescue  was  made  B.CX.  on 
30  May,  1559;  this  would  be  about  six 
months  after  the  death  of  Cardinal  Pole. 
According  to  the  '  Diet.  Nat.  Bio^,,'  Thomas 
Fortescue,  second  son  of  Sir  Adrian,  in  hia 
will  dated  1608  speaks  of  his  younger 
brother  Anthony  as  then  living— an  abstract 
of  this  will  is  given  in  the  fourth  series  of 
Brown's  *  Somersets  hire  Wilts';  the  will  was 
pmved  on  11  June,  161 L  He  ia  described 
as  of  Dinnington,  Berks,  Esquire ;  and  after 
desiring  to  oe  buried  at  Welford  by  his 
mother,  Lady  Ann  Parry,  he  mentions  his 
brother  Anthony  Fortescue,  but  the  context 
is  not  given.  He  also  refers  to  his  nephews 
Sir  Fmncis  and  Sir  William  Fortescue,  and 
his  niece  Lady  Margery  Poultney,  all  of 
whom  were  children  or  his  elder  brother  Sir 
John  F'ortescue,  but  no  reference  is  made  to 
any  children  of  his  own  or  of  his  brother 
Anthony. 

Now  as  to  the  conspiraton  Dame  Con- 
stance Pole,  of  Lording  ton  (widow  of  Sir 
Geoffrey  Pole),  in  her  will,  dated  7  Augtist, 
1570,  refers  to  her  daughters  Katherine 
Fortescue  and  Mary  Cufawde,  She  leaves  a 
silver  spoon  to  each  of  her  three  grand- 
children Anthony  Fortescue,  John  Fortescue, 
and  George  Fortescue  (this  would  appear  to 
indicate  tliey  were  of  tender  age),  and  she 
apixjints  "  my  friend  Baffe  Henslowe  '■  one  of 
the  executors  of  her  will.  Mary  Cufawde 
did  not  long  survive  her  mother,  and  in  her 
will,  dated  Si  November,  1571,  she  refers  to 


436 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [g*  s.  vil  jry.  i.  iwl 


"  my  sister  Henslowe,"  leaves  to  Anthony 
Fortescue  a  ring,  and  appoints  "  my  brother 
llaffe  Henslowe  supervisor.  Her  will  was 
proved  by  "  Kathenne  Henslowe,  natural 
sister  of  defunct  and  Ralph  Henslowe,  super- 
visor." From  tnis  it  would  appear  that  the 
conspirator  was  dead,  and  his  widow  married 
to  a  second  husband,  before  November,  1571  ; 
also  that  Anthony  Fortescue  of  Lordington, 
mentioned  subsequent  to  that  date,  was  the 
eldest  son  of  the  conspirator. 

Ralph  Henslowe  was  lord  of  the  manor  of 
Boarhunt,  near  Portchester,  Hants,  and  was 
M.P.  for  Portsmouth  in  1555.  He  died  in 
1577,  and  an  unusually  fine  classic  tomb 
erected  to  his  memory  is  still  to  be  seen 
in  Boarhunt  Church,  on  which,  besides  the 
arms  of  his  own  family  and  those  of  his 
first  wife  (Clare  Pound),  appear  the  arms  of 
his  second  wife  Katherine  role  (Per  pale  or 
and  sable,  a  sal  tire  engrailed),  under  the 
initials  "K.  P."  Katherine  Henslowe  was 
living  in  September,  1598,  and  is  mentioned 
at  that  date  in  the  will  of  her  stepson  Henry 
Henslowe,  who  also  refers  to  my  sister 
Ellen  Fortescue,  and  her  husband  Mr.  John 
Fortescue  "  (parents  of  George  Fortescue,  the 
poet,  bom  about  1578,  ana  Elizabeth,  the 
wife  of  Sir  John  Beaumont,  Bart.). 

Alfred  T.  Everitt. 

Hiffh  Street,  Portsmouth. 

Lizard  Folk-lore  (9"»  S.  vii.  224).— See 
'Vulgar  Superstitions,'  Asiatic  Journal,  Aug., 
1825,  vol.  XX.  pp.  168-74  ;  a  very  interesting 
list  of  forty -seven  Indian  superstitions,  with 
which  are  compared  some  few  English  ones, 
with  the  object  of  showing  that  the  vulgar 
English  are  quite  as  credulous  as  tneir 
Eastern  brethren.  The  list  is  quoted  from, 
and  in  answer  to, '  Minor  Superstitions  of  the 
Hindoos  and  Mussulmans,'  Asiatic  Observer, 
October,  1824,  and  articles  1,  2,  11,  and  14 
deal  with  lizards  ;  No.  14  is  a  *  Bruce  and  the 
Spider  *  story.  Thomas  J.  Jeakes. 

Surnames  (9"»  S.  vii.  28,  98,  235,  271).— In 
connexion  with  the  name  Balaam,  I  should 
like  to  point  out  the  existence  through 
several  centuries  of  an  armigerous  family 
Balam  in  the  fen  district  of  Cambridge- 
shire and  Norfolk.  Some  of  the  family  were 
"  sewers "  of  Wisbech,  and  one  at  least 
(writing  from  memory)  was  Hich  Sheriff  of 
his  county.  They  intermarrieof  with  many 
of  their  contemporary  county  families,  and, 
like  others,  failed  in  the  male  line.  A 
daughter  and  coheir  of  one  of  the  last, 
Charles  Balam,  of  Saws  ton,  co.  Cambs^ 
became  the  wife  of  Sir  Edward  Evelyn. 
Bart.,  of  the  elder   Long  Ditton  line,  and 


was  an  ancestress  of  the  late  Mrs.  Gladstone 
and  family.  In  one  of  the  pedigrees  in  the 
Heralds'  Visitations  descent  is  traced  from 
Walter  Balim,  "  who  came  out  of  Gamesay.* 
If  this  was  so,  a  different  derivation  from 
Balham  is  suggested.  I  do  not  recall  the 
form  Balaam  earlier  than  the  last  century. 
It  is  not  too  daring  to  presume  that  it  pre- 
serves the  pronunciation  of  Balam, 

Lionel  Crbsswell. 
Wood  Hall,  Calverley,  Yorks. 

Dr.  J.  A.  H.  Murray  says  that  a  high- 
school  girl  would  have  told  one  of  your 
correspondents  "that  Preen  was  not  and 
could  not  have  become  Prynne"  I  have  not 
a  high-school  girl  among  my  works  of  refer- 
ence, but  perhaps  one  of  them  who  may  not 
be  above  such  teaching  will  be  kind  enough 
to  explain  why,  if  dasg  can  become  dy.  Preen 
cannot  become  Prynne.  St.  Swithin. 

Sisters  bearing  the  same  Christiak 
Name  (2"**  S.  v.  307). —The  above  appears  to 
be  the  only  instance  given  in  '  N.  d^  Q.'  under 
this  head.  Brothers  oearing  the  same  Chrii- 
tian  name  have  been  the  subiect  of  many 
articles  in  the  present  series.  I  am  indebted 
to  the  Scottish  Antiquary  ;  or.  Northern  Notes 
and  Queries,  for  April,  for  the  following  :— 

"  Most  cases  which  have  come  under  cor  notioe 
of  two  of  the  same  name  in  one  family  have  been 
oases  of  sons,  but  in  the  Protocol  Sook  of  Sir 
Alexander  Gaw,  notary,  8trathmiglo,  under  date 
24  November,  1551,  is  a  memorandum  that '  Isabel 
Scot,  elder  daughter  of  George  Scot,  gave  and  oeded 
her  right  and  title,  which  sine  had  and  has,  in  and 
to  thenentage  of  Sir  John  Lam,  or  to  his  heirship 
goods,  or  to  his  tenement,  toft,  &c,  to  her  belovM 
sister  Isobella  Scot,  younger,  failing  to  her  by  the 
decease  of  the  said  John  L.,  presbyter." 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Great  Exhibition  (9"»  S.  vii.  288X— The 
price  of  a  gentleman's  season  ticket  for  the 
Exhibition  of  1851  was  3/.  3s.,  for  a  lady's 
2/.  2s,  Henrietta  Cole. 

96,  Philbeach  Gardens,  S.W. 

Title  op  '  H.E.D.'  (9«»  S.  vii.  347).—*  H.ED.' 
is  a  good  title  for  showing  the  pre-eminently 
historical  character  of  the  work,  yet "  Oxford " 
will  keep  in  perpetual  memory  the  University 
but  for  whose  liberality  "  up  to  its  power,  yea 
and  beyond  its  power '*  the  consummate  flower 
of  lexicography  could  not  have  blosaomed  for 
generations. 

Dr.  Fitzedward  Hall,  as  he  wrote  m^ 
had  discovered  "1,200  new  words  or  new 
usages  of  words  not  in  the  first  Tolimie  of 
^  H.E.D.,'  which  would  ai>pear  in  an  appen- 
dix."   What  a  lower  deep  in  the  lowttt  Sei&p ! 


^aviLJui«ii,i90i.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


437 


Oar  loss  in  him  will  be  less  irreparable  if  a 
thou^nd  of  U8  pigmies  are  moved  to  cast  each 
h  IE  t  wo  m  i  tea  i  n  to  tlie  *  H .  E.  D  /  treasu  ry ,  No 
work  of  Elzevir  or  Fouli><  is  so  immaculate 
in  typography  ae  '  H,KD./  yet  under  Ctm- 
ttruttive  4  I  note  a  blunaer  which  would 
make  Daniel  Webi^ter  turn  over  in  hia  coffin. 
That  great  expounder  had  affirmed  of  some- 
thing, "It  has  no  express  warrant  in  the 
Conatitution/'  But '  H.E.D/  prints  an  instead 
of  *'no,"  reversing  the  meaning,  as  a  similar 
1Y1  {.stake  nullified  the  seventh  Commandment 
in  "  the  Wicked  Bible," 

Dh.  Hall  did  not  find  Badgm^  and  Buckeye 
wanting  in  voL  i.,  but  I  look  in  vain  for 
Montier^  a  word  of  the  selfsame  class.  Why 
this  partiality  to  Wisconsin  and  Ohio,  ana 
the  cold  shoulder  tu  rned  on  Indiana^  not  the 
youngest  or  least  populous  of  the  throe? 
Hooker  was  a  well-known  book  title  in  1871, 
and  long  before  in  everylxH'Jy's  mouth. 

*H.E,T)/  aims  to  show  the  earlku  use  of 
words^  and  for  it^  Huperiority  in  that  end<3a- 
vour  is  worth  all  it  costs.  Its  earliest  date, 
however,  for  carti  is  1725,  but  in  15tt8  Shake- 
speare had  used  caret  — hq  doubt  giving  it 
birth  into  our  tongue  through  Hdofernes, 
the  schoolmaster,  whom  that  vocable  best 
befitted.  It  were  idle  to  seek  for  caret  in 
earlier  school-books,  for  they  were  Latin.  It 
is  a  axa^  Xiyofi^vQv  in  Shakes poare, 

Kegaraing  cigar^  the  following  shows  that 
weed  to  have  been  earlier  in  popular  use  than 
any  *  H.ED/  citation  ;— 

**  Bye-LftWfl  of  the  lown  of  Newbiiryrtort,  1785  * 
vobed  and  ordered,  th&t  any  \mx^Qn  who  a  hall  b« 
found  gmoaking  any  pipe  or  Begat-  in  the  streetii, 
lanes,  or  alleyaj  or  on  the  wharves  of  the  eaid  town, 
from  and  after  llie  second  Tuesday  of  October  next, 
shall  forfeit  and  pay  the  sum  of  two  ahiliiDgs  for 
every  aueh  oifenoe?* 

If  Mr.  Carnegie  would  place  *H.E,D.*  in 
each  of  his  librari&s^  every  remaining  copy 
would  be  snapped  up  in  a  trice  by  other 
libraries,  which  would  see  that  their  last 
chance  of  getting  the  work  was  vanishing. 
James  D.  Butlek. 

Madison,  WIa, 

*  The  Troth  of  Qilbebt  a  Bbckbtt  '  (9'*'  S, 
vii  349).— Mr.  William  New  all  doea  not 
say  if  this  is  in  verse  or  prose.  If  it  is 
verse,  may  I  suggest,  without  being  certain, 
that  he  may  peril aps  find  it  in  'Lays  and 
Ballads  from  Engiij^h  History/  by  S,  51, 12mo 
[1845],  in  the  London  Library  Catalogue, 
ISeaf  If  this  is  the  sarae  book  that  I 
reinember  in  ray  schooldays,  I  think  it  con- 
tained, besides  the  ballad  in  question ,  ballads 
on  the  Black  Princa  and  Kin^  John  of  France, 
and  on  Robert  the  Brace's  heart  and  Douglan. 


This  may  possibly  put  Me*  N'ewall  on  the 
ri^ht  track.  If  ho  cannot  easily  meet  with 
this  book  and  will  let  me  know,  I  will  try  to 
help  him  further;  but  I  may  be  unsncoessfnl. 
Jonathan  Bouchier. 
Ropley,  Alre«!ord,  Hante, 

On  referring  to  Fra^m-^^  Magazine^  voL  xx. 

gp.  389,  560  I  think  your  correspondent  will 
nd  what  he  is  in  sjeaieh  of,  a  tale  there 
entitled  *  Tlie  legend  of  Becket.' 

Tnoa.  Raywer. 
Moas  Side,  Manchester. 

Coronation  of  Queen  Victoria  (9^''  S. 
vii.  346).— I  have  the  little  book  mentioned* 
Its  title  is  '*  Peter  Parley's  Visit  to  London 
during  the  Coronation  of  Queen  Victoria. 
Published  by  Charles  Tilt,  Fleet  Street,  18S9," 
but  1838  appears  on  the  clotli  binding.  There 
are  116  pages,  with  the  following  page  plates : 
1.  *  The  Coronation  of  Queen  Victoria ' ;  2. 
'  Her  Majesty  leaving  Buckingham  Palace '; 
3.  *  Marshal  Boult^s  State  Carriiige';  4.  *Her 
Majesty's  State  Carriage  * ;  5.  *The  Procession 
ap(>roaching  Westminster  Abbey  * ;  6.  *  Her 
Majesty  leaving  her  Private  Apartraents  in 
Westramater  Abbey/  with  full  length  wood- 
cut of  the  Queen  on  the  title-page,  and  a 
curious  woodcut  of  a  steam  omnibus  going  at 
full  speed  at  the  end  of  the  book.  The  plat^ 
are  plain  lithographs,  by  Madeley,  of  Welling- 
ton Street,  Strand,  and  I  do  not  think  they 
would  be  printed  in  coloursi ;  perhaps  those 
romerabered  by  Mr.  Pickford  were  coloured 
by  hand.  This  book  is  one  which  Peter 
Parley  (8.  G.  Goodrich)  includes  in  his  Hat  of 
spurious  imitations  of  his  writinga  given  in 
A IH boners  *  Dictionary.'  I  have  never  met 
with  another  copy.  W.  B.  H. 

Duration  of  Life  in  Seeds  (9^^  S.  vii, 
328). — As  a  farmer  I  have  observed  in  autumn 
young  daisy  plants  germinating  in  cakes  of 
cattle  dung  dropped  several  months  before. 
Grass  seeds  also  pass  through  cattle  uninjured 
if  not  chewed.  In  Aberdeen  shire,  in  well-culti- 
vated  landt  daisies  appear  only  in  old  pasturt* 
at  intervals  of  six  and  seven  years ;  and  in 
moat  cases  the  seeds  from  which  they  spring 
have  lain  dormant  four  and  five  years,  and  1 
believe  they  lie  dormant  many  years.  In  old 
pastures  the  lines  of  drains  and  old  ditches 
that  have  been  filled  up  can  be  detected  after 
half  a  century  by  the  absence  of  daisies, 
which  were  more  abundant  before  the  intro- 
duction of  grass  and  clover  seeds  than  now. 
Of  course  daisies  have  grown  and  shed  their 
seed  several  times  on  the  other  part-^  of  the 
field  in  the  course  of  the  time  mentioned. 
Potash  manures  favour  grasses  and  clovers. 


438 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,      (^s-vn.  Jmnuiw. 


and  thus  exclude  daisies;  and  if  a  ridge  of  a 
field  were  left  u  a  manured  when  sowu  out, 
while  the  rest  of  the  field  was  manured,  the 
unmanured  ridge  could  be  detected  by  the 
abundance  of  daisies  at  the  proper  times 
many  vearE  after.  Crows  pick  up  mai^e  cast 
down  T-ir  pheasanfei.  It  passes  through  them 
undigesred,  I  have  known  seeds  of  wild 
mustarrl  lie  twenty  years  dormant  under  a 
bank  of  dry  earth.  J.  Milne. 

"Qui  VIVE?"  (9"^  S.  vii.  245.  336,)— In 
Prof.  £mile  Deiichaners  interesting  book 
'  Les  Deformations  de  la  Langue  PVani^aiae,' 
fourth  edition,  Paris,  1898,  I  find  on  p.  116 
the  following  note  on  the  above  phrase  : — 

"Qui  vive?  trAOScription  du  latin  Quiit  vivwi/ 
donnerait  gratnTnaticsa lenient  x  *  Qui  vif  !  *  Qud  est 
1©  viptiMt  qui  a'approche  ?  Autrement  dit  i  Qui  va 
till  ha.  tirouonciatiou  a  aniolli  la  finople  —  neut- 
hire  par  I 'intermedial  re  d©  ritalieu  ;  Ohi  vivo  r* 

It  ia  Atran^e  that  no  correspondent  of  the 

French  periodical  bo^  quoted  the  learned 
professor's  explanation,  which  he  evidently 
con«iflera  quite  satisfactory^.  The  neglect  of 
hu  countrymen,  however^  affords  me  the 
great  pleasure  of  bringing  him  and  his  use- 
ful work  to  the  notice  of  your  readers, 

John  T.  CofiRY. 

EiNG  op  Elizabeth  (9^"^  S.  vii.  368).— One 
account  of  this  states  that,  having  been 
returned  to  Queen  Elizabeth  by  the  Countess 
of  Nottingham  on  her  deathbed,  it  descended 
to  James  I.,  and  was  given  by  htm  to  Sir 
Thomas  Warner,  Governor  of  the  West 
Indies.  Thence  it  pasaed  by  inheritance  into 
the  possession  of  Joseph  Warner,  the  Guy^s 
surgeon  (ni7-180lX  and  is  stated  to  have 
remained  in  the  Warner  family.  This  appears 
to  have  been  a  gold  thumb-ring^  with  a  heart 
formed  of  a  rose  diamond.  The  other, 
containing  a  sardonyx  with  a  cameo  of 
Elizabethj  was  shown  at  tlie  Tudor  Exhibi- 
tion of  1890,  and  is  Maid  to  have  deitcended 
in  unbroken  suecesmon  from  Kssex'a  daughter 
to  its  present  owner* 

Qeoegk  0«  Feagrey, 

In  1858  the  ring  which  your  correspondent 
inquiras  after  was  in  the  possession  of  Mr. 
C,  W.  Warner.  It  U  described  as  *'a  slight 
ring  without  any  device,  and  has  an  enamelled 
hoop  set  with  a  pear-shaped  diamond  "  {Pro- 
csedings  of  the  bociety  of  Antiquaries,  First 
Series,  vol,  iv,  p.  179).      Edwaed  Peacock. 

Allusion  in  Woeds  worth  (9'**  S.  vii,  168, 
232,  338),— In  Lysons's  'Cumberland'  it  is 
stated  (p.  Ixvii)  that  '*the  family  of  Cur  wen," 
to  which  the  lady  addressed  by  Wordsworth 
in  the  lines  (juoted  by  F.  C\  belonged,  **  were 


descended  from  Ivo  de  Tailbois,  who  married 
Elgiva,  daughter  of  Ethelred,  King  of  Eng- 
land," meaning  Ethelred  IL,  who  was  gr«at- 
great-great-grandson  of  Alfred  the  Great. 
Surely  this  fact,  generally  accepted,  whether 
genealogically  correct  or  not,  is  sufficient  to 
explain  {as  I  ventured  previously  to  point 
out)  the  poet's  reference  to  Alfred  as  the 
''babe's  progenitor,"  withotit  the  ejctended 
application  which  Mr.  Batne  imports  into 
the  passage,  and  of  which  it  seems  hardly 
capaola  The  *'babe"  referred  to— not,  m 
Mr.  Bayne  states,  the  ** grandson,"  but  the 
granddaughter  of  the  poet— I  may  add,  is 
still  living,  and  regards  the  poet's  apostrophe 
as  directed  eKclusively  to  herself,  in  which 
sense  it  has  always  been  regarded  by  the 
poet*s  family  and  connexions,  of  whom  the 
writer  of  this  happens  to  be  one. 

John  Hutchucsoh, 

Painted  and  Enqkaved  PoETRArrs  (9**  S, 
vii.  341).— Me.  Masoi^s  list  is  capable  of  con- 
siderable extension.  I  would  mention  the 
foUowine:  J.  Russell  Smith's  *  Catalogue  of 
Twenty  Thousand  Engraved  Port  raits,  ^1883: 
the  lists  of  portraits  in  several  of  the  old 
magazines  which  the  Index  Society  pnblished 
in  one  or  two  of  their  Annual  Reports; 
the  list  of  the  portraits  (and  views)  which 
appeared  in  the  first  sixty  volumes  of  the 
Aurapean  Magazine^  publisned  in  the  Decem- 
ber, 1811,  number  of  that  magazine.  For 
portraits  after  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  there 
IS  Br.  E.  Hamilton's  excellent  work,  which 
is  described  in  Graves  and  Cromn's  fine 
monograph  on  that  artist.  _  For  the  chief 
works  engraved  after  Gainsborough  mud 
Romney  there  is  Mr.  Home's  'Catalogue*; 
there  is  also  Daniel's  '  Cosway.'  IVfe^ra 
Myers  Js  Rodgers  have  issued  the  first  p&rt 
of  a  *  Catalogue  of  Engraved  Portraits  ^  wLioh 
promises  to  be  the  most  extensive  of  ite 
fcind  yet  published.  I  have  found  it  nwit 
useful.  A  list  of  catalogues  of  private  col- 
lections of  pictures  would  be  valuable,  I 
have  many  such  catalogues.     W.  EoBBEia. 

Col.  Thomas  Cooper  (2^  S.  vii.  168,  3531- 
While  not  without  doubt,  I  am  inclinaa  to 
think  that  the  Thomas  Cooper,  alderman, 
who  represented  the  city  of  Osford  in  tlie 
Short  Parliament  of  1640,  was  the  sasw 
person  who  afterwards  became  the  C^iwn- 
wellian  colonel.  When  be  was  appointed  to 
a  colonelcy  is  not  recorded,  nor  apparently 
the  regiment  he  commanded,  but  as  Cm. 
Thomas  Cooper  he  was  elected  to  the  Parliir 
ment  of  1656  for  the  Irish  borongbi  of  Down, 
Antrim,  and  Armagh,  and  thrtm^bout  tiia* 
Parliament  was  a^^tive  on  ootamitteeL    In 


9»&viLJinn.i.i90L)       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


439 


1655  he  was  on  military  service  in  Scotland, 
bein^  in  July  of  that  vear  appointed  one  ot 
the  eight  Council  in  Edinburgh  to  administer 
afiEairs.  W.  D.  Pink. 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  kc. 

The  Early  Affe  of  Cfrtece,    By  William  Ridgeway, 

M.A.  VoL  I.  (Cambridge,  University  Press.) 
Thb  views  of  Prof.  Ridgeway  concerning  the  Pelas- 
siaD  origin  of  the  Mycenean  civilization  are  well 
known  to  scholars.  In  putting  them  forth  in  the 
Journal  of  Hellenic  StudieSf  the  Journal  of  the 
Anthropoloffical  Institute,  and  elsewhere,  he  has 
encoiintered  much  opposition,  and  also  received 
mnch  important  support.  The  questions  he  dis- 
cossee  and  the  points  he  raises  are  of  the  highest 
ethnological  and  archs^lo|^cal  interest,  and  it  is  a 
distinct  gain  to  scholarship  to  have  a  formal  expo- 
sition of  nis  views  and  the  observations  on  which 
they  are  founded  in  a  work  one  volume  of  which, 
dealing  with  the  monumental,  traditional,  ana 
lin^;uistic  aspects  of  the  subject,  is  now  before  us, 
while  the  second,  treating  of  institutions  and  reli- 
gion, is  in  the  press  and  is  promised  for  an  early 
date.  It  is  only  within  the  last  quarter  of  a  cen- 
tury that  an  investigation  such  as  is  now  being 
carried  out  became  possible.  ESarlier  scholars 
had,  of  course,  an  all  out  inexhaustible  treasure- 
house  in  the  Itinerary  of  Pausanias  and  in  the 
writings  of  Hesiod,  Homer,  Thucydides,  Herodotus, 
and  the  four  great  dramatists.  The  famous  re- 
searches of  Scnliemann  lifted,  as  Prof.  Ridgeway 
says  in  his  opening  sentence,  a  **  corner  of  the  veil 
which  had  so  long  enshrouded  the  older  age  of 
Hellas."  Since  that  time  discovery  has  followed 
discovery,  and  a  partial  reconstruction  of  the  world 
to  which  are  owing  the  so-called  Mycenean  monu- 
ments becomes  possible.  A  main  purpose  of  the 
volume  is  to  explain  to  what  civilization  are  attri- 
butable the  remains  (for  convenience  collectively 
known  as  Mycenean)  which  have  been  found  in 
abnndanoe  on  the  mainland  of  Greece,  in  the  i£gean 
islands,  and  also  in  Egypt.  Etruria,  Sicily,  and 
elsewhere.  The  opening  chapter  is  devoted  to 
these  prehistoric  relics  and  their  distribution. 
They  consist  mainly— apart  from  the  architectural 
remains,  in  themselves  of  high  value  and  interest 
•—of  gold  ornaments,  of  bronze  weapons,  and  of 
pottery.  Archaeologists  have  long  been  familiar 
with  the  rich  stores  of  ornament  and  the  like  dis- 
covered in  the  graves  at  Mycenae  and  elsewhere— 
stores  so  rich,  indeed,  that  the  majority  of  scholars 
accepted  the  conclusions  of  Schliemann  that  in  the 
graves  on  the  Acropolis  of  Mycenae  had  been  dis- 
covered the  remains  of  Agamemnon,  dJassandra, 
and  other  victims  of  Olyteninestra  and  iSasthus. 
Some  scholars  have  naturally  doubted  such"'  facile 
ascription,"  and  Prof.  Ridgeway  now  constitutes 
himmf  the  mouthpiece  of  those  who  find  discre- 
pfluacies  between  the  culture  of  the  Mycenean  age 
and  that  depicted  in  the  '  Iliad '  and  the  *  Odvssey.' 
The  onestion  as  to  what  people  are  responsible  for 
the  Mycenean  civilization  is  one  of  the  most  interest- 
ing and  important  in  early  Greek  history.  That  these 
were  the  Acheans  has  long  been  the  notion  gener- 
i^ly  accepted.  This  idea  Prof.  Ridgeway  disputes, 
showing  that  the  civilization  had  reached  its  height 
i     beloca  the  intoodoctioQ  of  iron,  and  maintaining 


that  the  strongest  claim  to  the  authorship  is  pos- 
sessed by  the  relasgians.  While  Homeric  culture 
belongs  to  the  Iron  Age,  that  of  the  Mycenean  age, 
as  found  in  Argolis,  Attica,  Thessaly,  and  else- 
where, belongs  to  the  Age  of  Bronze.  Except  in 
the  shape  of  fin^pr  -  rings,  one  or  two  of  which 
appear  in  tombs  in  the  Lower  Tovm  at  Mycenae 
and  at  Vaphio,  assigned  to  the  close  of  the  Myce- 
nean age,  iron  is  absent  from  the  graves  generally 
at  Mycenae.  Those  who,  because  bronze  (xaXc^c) 
appears  more  frequently  than  iron  (Mfipoc),  hold 
the  Homeric  poems  to  deal  with  the  Bronze  Age, 
are  misled,  tne  terms  chcUkeua  and  chalkeion  tor 
blacksmith  and  forge  having  survived  from  the 
time  when  the  labour  subsequently  bestowed  upon 
iron  had  been  employed  upon  bronze  and  copper. 
For  defensive  armour  bronze  retained  its  use  up  to 
and  through  the  Middle  Ages,  just  as,  with  r^ard 
to  such  puriKwes  as  gxindine  com,  the  Stone  Age 
may  still  be  said  to  exist.  The  dress  of  the  Greeks 
of  the  Bronze  Age  was  more  primitive  than  that  of 
the  Homeric,  men  in  Mycenean  remains  (and  women 
also)  being  represented  either  as  naked  or  clad  only 
in  a  loin-cloth  or  a  chiton^  which  seems  to  have 
started  at  the  waist.  It  is  difficult,  however^  to 
build  trustworthy  conclusions  upon  the  rude  designs 
extant.  This  portion  of  Prof.  Kidgeway's  book  is 
forcibly  argueo,  and  his  conclusions,  though  mucsh 
is  necessarily  conjecture,  carry  gpreat  weight.  Qaite 
im]M>ssible  is  it  to  follow  the  long  argument  by 
which  Prof.  Ridgeway  shows  that  the  home  (or,  as 
he  calls  it,  the ^*  focus")  of  the  Mycenean  grand 
style  is  on  the  mainland  of  Greece.  Attica  had  in 
early  days  neither  great  wealth  nor  political  im- 
portance. All  that  could  bring  wealth,  if  not 
security,  existed  **  in  the  rich  plain  of  Argos,  in  the 
fertile  alluvium  of  Copais  in  Boeotia,  and  in  the 
rich  grass-lands  of  Thessaly,  and  in  the  Troad,"  and 
it  is  assumed  that  it  was  probably  "under  the 
shelter  of  the  great  walls  of  Tiryns,  Mycenae,  and 
Goulas  that  the  Pelasgian  art  took  its  highest 
form."  Whatever  may  be  held  concerning  Prof. 
Ridgeway's  conclusions,  it  will  be  ffeneraily  con- 
cede that  in  his  efforts  to  establish  them  he  opens 
out  fields  offering  high  rewards  to  the  students  of 
folk-lore,  ethnology,  archaeology,  anthropology,  and 
kindred  subjects,  and  he  has  produced  a  work  of 
thorough  and  far-seeing  erudition.  A  worker  of 
the  same  character  as  Dr.  J.  G.  Frazer,  to  whom 
bis  book  is  dedicated,  he  claims  the  serious  con- 
sideration of  all  scholars,  and  is  likely  to  revo- 
lutionize opinion  in  many  respects.  We  have 
marked  scores  of  passages  for  comment.  Chapters 
to  be  warmly  commended  to  the  reader  are 
those  on  '  Whence  came  the  Acheans  ? '  and 
*  Inhumation,  Cremation,  and  the  Soul.'  In 
the  former  Prof.  Ridgeway  shows  himself  dis- 
posed to  believe  that  the  Homeric  Acheans 
came  from  the  head  of  the  Adriatic  and  from 
the  great  fair-hadred  communities  of  Central 
Europe.  Their  supposed  migrations  are  traced, 
and  the  comiMirison  is  made  that  *'the  Paniabis 
may  be  regaraed  as  occupsring  much  the  same  kind 
of  position  in  India  as  the  Macedonians  and  iEto- 
lians  did  in  the  Balkan  peninsula."  In  the  chapter 
on  '  Inhumation,  Cremation,  and  the  Soul '  the  fact 
is  shown  that,  as  the  dead  needed  both  food  and 
clothing,  which  militates  against  the  notion  that 
the  Pelasgians  went  about  naked,  so  it  was  natural 
that  their  last  home  should  resemble  their  earthly 
habitation.    Hence  the  terraK^tta  coffins  in  which 


440 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [9*  s.  vil  junb  i.  woi. 


the  dead  were  depoaited  take  oocaaionally  the 
ih&pe  of  dwelliiif^.  From  whatever  point  of  view 
it  i&  regarded y  thm  is  a  memorable  work.  We  fihall 
await  with  some  impatience  the  second  volume, 
which  of  course  will  contain  the  index.  a4id  will 
aXsQ  be  of  highest  v^ue  to  aU  intertrst^d  in  primi- 
tive cultiire*  Xbo  rudntion  of  this  fiotjond  volume 
recalb  the  fact  that  wo  still  await  the  oonduding 
voluniti  of  Mr.  Farneirts  *■  Cults  of  the  Greek  States 
(see  S^^S.  ix.  519),  a  work  with  whicb,  naturally, 
the  present  has  somethinf?  in  common.  The  illufl- 
t rations  to  Prot  liidgeway'a  work,  drawn  from 
various  aourcea,  add  greatly  to  ita  value. 

ThA  Church  Towtra  of  SotnGrset^kirt.  By  E.  Piper, 
K,KB.  Parts  XXIJL-XXV.  (Bristol,  Frost  4 
Roe4) 
With  the  appearance  of  the  twenty* fifth  t>art  this 
monumental  work  on  *  The  Uhureh  Tow  era  of 
Bomersetahire '  is  completed.  We  have  followed 
with  interested  attention  the  appearance  of  each 
successive  part,  and  congratulate  the  lovers  of 
church  arch i lecture  utjon  the  result.  Both  as 
regards  the  merits  of  Miss  Ptper's  etcbinKB  and  the 
brief  printed  descriptiooa  of  Mr.  John  Lloyd  War- 
den Page  the  same  high  level  of  exoeilence  is 
maintained.  In  the  present  instalment  tiie  first 
illustration  depicts  the  church  of  St.  John  the 
Ba^^tist,  Well j 0^5 toU|  a  fine,  though  by  comparison 
plaiUi  specimen  of  Somerset  Perpendicular,  con- 
veying the  idea  of  ^reat  solidity  and  strength. 
The  church  contains,  at  the  east  ^nd  of  the 
north  aisle,  a  tomb  assigned  to  ^irca  I3U0,  with 
an  English  inscription :  **  Richard  Persone  de 
M«r«  of  Welintone  IJKPtb  in  grave  IHV  Urist 
Oodea  Sone  arawnt^  him  [mercyj,'*  a  rcxnarkable 
IBfttanee  of  tne  use  of  EngUsh  in  such  a  plai':e. 
The  church  itself  h  Eific^(.^ijth- century.  It  seems 
probable  that  the  niiKJurtitTtt  is  from  the  earlier 
church,  traces  of  which  mittain.  The  tall,  plain, 
and  symmetrical  towera  of  Norton  Fitzwarren, 
on  the  plan  of  Taunton,  date  back  to  the  time 
of  Hi  chard  II,  i^Jtxscial  attention  is  drawn  here 
to  the  quaint  ancl  grotes{[uo  jj^argoyles^  the  de- 
sigmi  of  which  are  not,  however,  eai^ily  traced  in 
an  etching.  Ita  famous  screen,  dating  from  1509, 
and  symbolising,  it  is  conjectured,  the  devastation 
of  tho  county  by  a  dragon,  cannot,  of  course j  be 
flhown  in  an  e:tterior  view.  The  red  sandstone 
tower  of  8t.  Mary's,  Bishop's  Lydeard,  in  the 
valley  of  the  Quantocks,  repays  close  attention. 
The  church  has  suffered  from  time  and  restoration, 
the  latter  aceonn^lished  in  1850,  but  the  tower 
occupies  still  a  bieh  place  in  Smnereetahire  esti- 
mation. (Jomely.  out  unadorned,  in  the  t-ower  of 
St*  Decuman *s,  Watchett,  on  the  extreme  west  of 
Somerset,  dominating  the  pleasing  little  geatjort  on 
the  Briatol  Channel,  Unuke  most  of  its  fellows, 
the  tower  of  45 1.  George's,  Dunstcr*  spriuKs  from 
the  centre  of  the  churchy  and  not  from  the  west 
end.  It  is  in  four  stag^,  each  stage  slightly  smaller 
than  that  beneath,  so  as  to  present  a  tapering 
appearance.  The  top  is  embattledj  but  the  general 
effect  is  not  sjiecialiv  striking.  For  the  last  is 
reserved  St.  Michael  s,  Minehead,  the  dominant 
situation  of  which  is  not  its  least  charm.  To  this 
it  may  bo  due  that  the  building  coovcya  a  slight 
suggestion  of  a  fortalice. 

We  congratulate  artist  and  pubUaherH  upon  the 

termhtaUoti  of  their  labours,  and  the  pubfio  upon 

the  poBBfmsion  of  a  work  the  deai{Fn&  in  which  are 

WQrthj  oi  the  noble  oiotiumeiita  lW|  pcQi^a^.   Ix^ 


days  in  which  reverence  for  eccleniastical  menu- 
monts  m  firmly  established  there  is  no  fe&r  thai  tbe 
Honierseuhire  towers  will  be  forgotten.  It  it  a 
matter  for  rejoicing  that  thc*se  who  are  ijpeveenied 
by  occupation   or  distance   from    re  freshing  their 


memories  by  revisiting  sjiots  hallowed  by 

tioQs  as  well  a&  hy  beauty  may  have  a  souvenir  at 

once  pious  and  artistic  such  tmMias  Piper  pre^ente. 

7'h€  Oath tdral  Chtt rch '  of  iSaint  Df^v itfs.    By  Pbihp 

A.  Robson,  A.R.LB.A.  (Bell  k  Sona.^ 
Of  all  the  volumes  of  the  admirable  "  Cathedral 
8eries"  of  Messrs.  Bell  k  Sons,  this  is  the  only  one 
which  we  have  no  lurking  hope  of  being  able  to 
turn  to  practical  account.  In  every  other  cas*?  we 
have  dreamed  of  revisiting  the  tJathedral,  book  iit 
hand,  and  reviving  associations  which  Bie  among 
the  moat  pleasurable  In  our  memory^  St^  David ii 
we  have  not  seen  and  shall  not  see.  It  is  too  dis- 
tant, and  opportunities  and  means  of  aooen  an 
t<K)  difficult  to  furnish  a  chance  that  wo  shall 
gaze  on  its  walls  or  pace  reverently  its  aislos.  We 
are  none  the  less  glad  to  possess  the  volume,  even 
though  it  mock  us  with  the  portraiture  of  joys 
beyond  attainment.  Very  far  from  bein^  toe 
worst  or  the  least  interesting  of  the  senes  ii 
the  volume.  It  presents  a  series  of  views,  chiefly 
photoffrapbic,  of  the  exterior  and  interior  of  th« 
cathedral  and  of  spots  and  objects  contained  in  it 
or  connected  with  it.  and  it  siippUos  an  animated, 
and  we  doubt  not  laithful,  record  of  a  not  v«t 
eventful  history.  An  excellent  ide«K  is  eonve^ 
of  the  richness  and  massiveness  of  the  interior 
decoration.  The  view  on  p.  i55  of  a  Norman  shaft 
with  a  carved  capital  is  specially  striking.  The 
book  constitutes  a  weloome  Addition  to  the  i 


^alun  til  €sm%]ffoubtviB^ 

W^  muni  c&il  itpecutl  iUUntion  to  tht  /offowMf 
noHcta  :— 

Oh  ail  communications  must  l>e  written  the  nauM 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  nooesaarily  for  pub* 
U cation,  but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Wk  cannot  undertake  to  answer  i^ueriea  privateir. 

To  secure  insertion  of  eommunications  corre* 
s|K>ndenta  must  observe  the  following  rules.  Ltt 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
shp  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
such  aadrees  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  W  hon  answer* 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previeiu 
entnes  in  the  paper,  contnhutors  are  r^ueated  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  eza^l 
heading}  the  series  volume,  and  page  or  pa««s  1« 
which  they  refer,  Correspondente  who  repeat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  fteoond  ooo- 
municalion  ''  Duplicate," 

J.  B.  McU," 

And  the  night  shall  be  filled  with  niniic 
is  by  Longfellow,  *'  The  Day  is  Done*" 

Lw  J,  C.  ('^1  am  Sir  Oracle  ">.  —  ' Merchant  of 
Venice,'  L  i,  94. 

NOT!  cm. 

Editorial  Qommunications  should  be  addreind  to 
**Tiie  Editor  of  ""  Notes  and  Queries' '^—Ad^v^nfr' 
ments  and  Business  Letters  to  **  The  F'uhllaftMr*^ 
at  the  Odice,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  LaoiBi  RC 

We  beig  leave  to  state  that  we  de<^iiie  to  retnn 
commtmications  which,  for  any  reaaon^  we  do  Ml 
\  if^fcm^  ^  «i^  tu  this  rule  we  oan  make  no  «ixo«puo& 


vk8.vu.JcNBi.iwi.i       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

JOURNAL  OP  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE. 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


The  ATUSNjKUM  for  May  t6  eonULViu  ArticU*  on 

8T.  JOHM '8  OOLLIOB.  CAMBlilDQB. 

AUSTRALASIA  OLD  ud  MBW. 

Am  BLUABBTHAM  PUBTBTAMCB. 

SCHVTLBR'S  BS8AYS. 

Th«  HISTORY  «t  BOSS. 

WBW  MOTBLB  :-JMii  BajmoAd ;  My  Son  BletaMd ;  A  Sors  TempM^ 
Uott;  A  VanUbed  BItmI;  Sawdui-.  Monaiear  Beaooalre;  The 
Tnarara  of  Oqrtaia  Scutott ;  The  Bordea  of  an  Hononr. 

FBBRCH  HISTORY. 
TWO  BOOKS  OB  ABYSSINIA. 
THBOLOOICAL  LITBRATURB. 
OUR  LIBRARY  XABLB-LIST  Of  NBW  BOOKS. 
BMOLISB  LITBRATURB  ud  AMBRICAM  PROFBS80BS ;  CRITICA 
CRITICUBD;  SALBS. 


LITBRART  GOSSIP. 

BdBMGB:— Dr.  AUehln's  Manial  of  Medidne;  Soeletiea;  Meetinirt 

Most  Week ;  OoMlp. 
FIMB  ARTS  :~Ubimry  iWdoj   The  Rojal  Aeadomy;   Mole*  from 

RoiM;  The  UlxMM  of  1901  {   The  OvUdhiai  OMalofne:   Sales; 

OoMtp. 
MUSIC:— Royal  Italian  Opera;  Riehter  Coneert;  Recital  by  Seikor 

aacaaato  and  Madame  Man;  PnreeU's  'Eairy  Qaeea'i  Ooeelp; 

PerfonMBCoe  Most  Week. 
DRAMA:— *Tbe  8aeiameBt  of  Jndat';   "Yllotxa"  in   'Timon  of 


The  ATHRNjSUMfor  May  11  contains  ArUeU$  on 
IfORB  MOTBS  from  a  DIARY, 
na  MBW  BMOLIBH  DIOTIOMARY. 
Am  BARLY  TOYAOB  to  JAPAN. 
DOMOBTHBMBS  on  Ihe  CROWN  RB-BDITBD. 
Am  TTAIilAN  on  Ihe  FRBNCH  RBYOLUTIOM. 

MBW  NO? BLS  >-The  Herlti 

9t  Ihe  Oonrtt 

Roaoi  TbeBIa 

Bnt;Tiavaa 
BIBUOORAPHICAL  LITBRATURB. 
OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-UST  of  NBW  BOOKS, 
na    BDWARDBS    LIBRARY  t     The    BARLY 

SOOnTYi  CURBS  and 


i  >->The  Herltafe ;  Amonc  the  Syriniat ;  The  Sentence 
rtt  Tufled  TrtniUm;  Clandia  PoIeV  The  cardinal's 
BlaekWilfs Breed ;LoTe  the  Laintard ;  AatheTwigU 


BMOLISR     TBXT 
CBOWDY  "i  The  FRASBR  SALB. 


UTBRARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIBNCB-The  North  Americans  of  Yesterday 

Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
FDIB  ARTS— The  Royal  Academy;  Telemaeo  Slfnorinii  The  Onild- 

hall GMalCKae i  Sales;  Gossip 
MUSIC— Loadea  Maslcal  Festt^al;  The  Joachim  Qnartet;  Library 

l^ble ;  H.  P.  Free* ;  Gossip ;  Psrformances  Next  Week. 

•A  Wosaan  In  the  Case'; 


The  ATUBNjKUU  for  May  18  contains  ArtieUs  on 

The  MAM  in  the  IRON  MASK. 

The  BYOLUTION  of  the  BMGLISH  BIBLB. 

The  LIPB  of  MRS.  LYNN  LIMTOM. 

SIR  WALTB&  BBSAMT  on  BAST  LONDON. 

A  NBW  STUDY  of  BOLIMOBROKB. 

A  OBRMAM  PHILOSOPHBR'S  IDBAL  of  HUMANITY. 

TWO  TRANSLATIONS  from  ITALIAN  POSTS. 

NBW  N0VBL8:— The  Warden  of  the  Marches;  On  Peter's  Island; 
Horthboroof  h  Cross ;  Afield  and  Afloat ;  Oiaders ;  The  Strange  Bx- 

KrieocesofMr.  Versehoyle;  Prince  Rnpert  the  Bnocaneer;  Ray's 
nchter;  The  Gamblers;  Plato's  Haadmaiden;  A  Patched-np 

CANADA  and  the  UNITBD  8TATBS. 

BDUCATIONAL  LITBRATURB. 

MILITARY  BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LI8T  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

GBNBRAL  GORDON;    The   BARLY    BNOLISH    TBXT   80CIBTY 

"  DORMANCY";     GOWBR'8     •  MIROUR    de     I'OMMB';     The 

JBBUITS  in  BNGLAMD  (  SALR 

LITBRARY  GOSSIP.  ^'*'^ 

SCIBNCB :  —  Anthropolofical    Notes:     Miss    Christian    Maelaiaa; 

Societies ;  Meetings  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
VINB  ARra  :-The  Royal  Academy ;  Mr.  John's  Drawings  at  Messrs. 

Oarlhx's ;  The  Reiss  BagiaTings ;  bales ;  Gossip. 
MUSIC :-Royal  Italian  Opera;  Mr.  ToToys  Recital ;  PhUharmonic 

Concert;  The  Joachim  Qnartet;  Mr.  Batter's  PlAnoforte  Redtal ; 

Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA :-  *  The  Secret  Orchard ' ;  Gossip. 


The  A  TUBNAiUM  for  May  U  contains  Articles  on 
The  HISTORY  of  the  BNGLISH  JB8UITS. 
FRANCIS  HUTCHBSON'S  PHILOSOPHY. 
RBCOLLBCTIUNS  of  MALAYA. 
8AINTB-BBUYB. 

BIGUTBBNTH-CBNTURY  MBMUIBS. 

NBW  NOVELS :— The  Snpreme  Crime ;  Toysey ;  Qneen's  Mate  t  The 
Wings  of  the  Morning ;  Le  NonTcan  Don  Jnan.  '  ^ 

SPORTS  and  PASTIMB8. 
SHORT  STORIBS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
CRITICA  CRITICIZBD ;  The  FRASBR  SALB ;  The  late  Mr.  GBORGB 

Alm- 
LITBRARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIBNCB-OrnithologicalLiteratnre;  Societies;  Meetings  Next  Week ; 
Gossip. 

FINE  ART8-Spaaish  Art  at  the  GnildhaU ;  The  Saloas  ef  1901 :  MarU 

cosway  '•  •  Cynthia ' ;  Sale ;  ^Msip. 
MUSIC-' The  ^•ndd  Isle':  The  Joachim  Qnartet i  The  London 

Musical  FestlTal ;  Gossip ;  Performaacee  Next  Week. 
DRAMA-'  The  Qneen's  Doable ';  '  The  Maa  from  Blankley'k ';  Geeelp. 


The  ATHBNJEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN     C.     FRANCIS,    Atheneam    Office,    Bream's   Buildings,    Chancery  Lane,   S.C. 

And  of  all  Newsagents. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [••B.vn.Jmni.uM. 

MAGMILLAN  ft  GO.'S  STANDARD  WORKS. 


THE    EVER8LEY    SERIES. 


MATTHBW  ABNOLD'B  WOBK8. 

FOB1C8.    S  TOls.  1  AMURICAW  DISOOVBSBS. 

B88AY8  lA  CIUTICISk.    Flrat  BeriM. 
ASSAYS  la  CKITICISM.    Seooad  SeilM. 

The  SVBBSIjinr  BIBIiB.  Arranged  in  Paragraph!, 
wltli  aa  latrodaetioa  hj  J.  W.  Macxail,  M.A.  8  voli. 
Vol.  I.  OBMBBIS-MUMBBB8.  Vol.  U.  DEUTERONOMY- 
S  SAMUEL.  Vol.  lU.  1  KIMOS-BSTHBR.  VoL  IV.  J0B-80NO  of 
SOLOMON.  Vol.  V.  ISAIAH-LAMENTATIONA  Vol.  VI.  BZBKIEL 
-MALACHI.  Vol.  VII.  MATTHEW-JOHN.  Vol.  VUI.  ACTS- 
&EVBLATION. 

•«•  The  Text  U  that  of  the  AathorUed  Vereloa. 
BS8AY8  by  aXOBOB  BBIMUBY.    Third  Bdition. 

OHAUOSB'B  OANTSBBUBY   TAIiBS.     Bdited 
by  A.  W.  PoLuao.    S  toIs. 

DSAN  OHUBOH*8  MIBOELIiANXOirS  WBIT- 
INOS.    OoUeeted  EdltlOB.    0voU. 
MISCELLANEOUS  ESSAYS.     |     DANTE,  and  other  Beeaya. 
ST.  ANSELM.         I        BACON.         |        8PBNRBH. 
The  OXTOED  MOVEMENT.    TwelTe  Year*.  ia»-lMA 
The  BBOINNING  of  the  MIDDLK  AGES,    (laelnded  la  thlsSertea 


Olobe  8vo,  cloth,  6  8.  P®r  Volame. 


byjpermlaeton  of  Meeera.  Loajnnaaa  A  uo. ) 
OCCASIONAL  P/ "-• "  ' '"- 


>  PAPBES.    Selected  from  the  Quardian,  the  Timtes, 

aad  the  Sotav^oy  E<«iM9, 1018-1800.    2  Tola. 

LIFE   and    LBTTEBS    of    1>JSIAN    CHUBOH. 

E^  lied  by  hla  Daufhter.  Maxt  C.  CHiaca. 

XMSBSON'B    COIiIiBCTlED    WOBK8.     6   volt. 
With  Introdactloa  by  Joan  MoaLBT. 
MISCELLANIES.         |         ESSAYS.         I        POEMS. 
ENGLISH  T&AITS  aad  aEPKESBNTATlVB  MEN. 
The  CONDUCT  of  LIFB.  aad  SOCIETY  aad  SOLITVDE. 
LBTTEBS  aad  SOCIAL  AIMS. 

LBTTBBS  Of  ED  WABD  FITZOEBAIiD.  Bdited 
by  W.  Alois  Wainm.    :r  Tole.    New  Edltloa. 

LETTEBS    of    EDWABD     FITZQEBALD    to 

FANNY  KBMBLB.  1871-18BS.    Edited  by  W.  A.  Waion. 

PAU8ANIAS,  and  other  Qreek  Sketches.     By  J.   Q. 

FaAzsa,  D.C.L. 
GOETHE'S    PB08E  MAXIMS.    Translated,  with 

latrodaetioaa,  by  T.  Bailst  SAVnoxaa. 
•»•  The  Seleatme  aad  ArUatle  Maxims  were  leleeted  by  Prof- 
Hnxley  aad  Lord  Leifhton  respectlTely. 

THOMAS  QBAY'S  OOLIiEOTED  WOBKS  in 

PROSE  aad  VERSE.    Bdited  by  Bomvxo  Oo«ul    4  vols. 
POBM8.  JOURNALS,  aad  ESSAYS. 
LETTERS.    2  Tola. 
NOTES  oa  ARISTOPHANES  aad  PLATO. 

QBEEN'S  HI8TOBY  of  the  ENGLISH  PEOPLE. 

8toU. 

The   MAKING  of  ENGLAND.    By  J.  R.  Grekn. 

M.A.  LL.D.    With  Maps.    2  vols. 

The  CONQUEST  of  ENGLAND.    By  J.  B.  Orekn. 

MA  LL.D.    With  Maps.    2  vols 

STBAY  STUDIES  from  ENGLAND  and  ITALY. 

By  JouK  RicHAKD  GaxsM. 

GUESSES  at  TBUTH.    By  Two  Brothebs. 

EABTHWOBK  OUT  of  TUSCANY.  Being  Im- 
pressions aad  lYaaslations  of  MAvaicx  HxwjLxrr,  Author  of  *  The 
Forest  LoTsrs.'   Third  Editioa,  RoTised. 

B.  H.  HUTTON*S  COLLECTED  ESSAYS. 

LITERARY  ESSAYS. 

ESSAYS    oa    SOME    of    the    MODERN   GUIDES   of    ENGLISH 

THOUGHT  la  MATTERS  Of  FAITH. 
THEOLOGICAL  ESSAYS. 
CRITICISMS  oa  CONTEMPORARY  THOUGHT  aad  THINKERS. 

ASPECTS  of  REU010U8  and  SCIENTIFIC  THOUGHT.     Bdited 
by  his  Nieee,  ELBAsam  M.  Roicox. 

POEMS  of  THOMAS  HOOD.    Bdited,  with  Prefatory 
Memoir,  by  Oaaoa  Aiaoxa.    2  Tola. 
Vol.    L  SERIOUS  POEMS. 
Vol  U.  poems  of  WIT  aad  HUMOUR. 

With  VlffaeCtes  aad  Portraits. 


HUXLBY'S  COLLECTED 

DARWINLAICA. 


THOMAS 

WORKH. 
MBTHUDaad  RESULTS.     | 
SClBNOEaad  ESUC!ATII>N. 
SCIlSnOi  and  HEBREW  TKABITION, 

Ht  }ffE     Vilih  MelH  to  tbe  Atudt  of  barSal«y 

MAN  »  I 'LACE  m  lNATt.rK.li,  ^Qd  i^bar  ABib»eflloffii3B]  iMays. 

EVOLU  lli..iN  an. I    K  rtilCH,  And  iilh^r  £»|Ayi. 

The   CHOICE  of  BOOKS,  and  other  Literary  PIccn. 
By  Faaosaic  HAaaitoM. 

FBENCH  POETS  and  NOVELISTS.    By  Hevet 
LEtISbBS  Of  JOHN  KEATS  to  his  FAMILY 

aad  FRIENDS.    Edited  by  SuirxT  Ooltw. 

CHABLESKINGSLEY'SNOVBIiS  and  POEMS. 

WESTWARD  HO!    2TOla.  I  YBA8T.    1 TOL 

ALTON  LOCKR    2  TOls.  HTPATIA.    2t«Is. 

TWO  YEARS  AGO.    fTOls.  POEMS,    f  Tola. 

BERBWARD  the  WAKE. 

CHABLBS    LAMB*S    COLLECTED   W^OBXB. 

Edited,  with  In(rodactioa  aad  Notes,  by  the  B«t.  Caaoa  Atnus. 

M.A.    6  TOls. 
The  ESSAYS  of  ELIA. 

POEMS.  PLAYS,  aad  MISCELLANEOUS  ESSAYS. 
MRS.  LEICBSTER-S  SCHOOL,  aad  other  Wrftt^a. 
TALES  FROM  8HAJLESPBARB.    By  Cmaxus  aad  Mast  Laiu. 
The  LBTTEBS  of  CHABLBS  LAMB.    2t«Ia 

LIFE  of  CHABLES  LAMB.  By  Canon  Ainger,  MJL 

HISTOBICAL  ESSAYS.    By  tbe  late  J.  B.  Li6HT> 

FOOT.  D.D.  D.aL  LL.D. 

The^  POETICAL  WOBKS  of  JOHN  Mn/FOH. 

Bditad.  with  Memoir,  latrodaetloa.  aad  Holee  by  Diatw  Mimas. 
MA.LL.D.    I  TOls. 

JOHN    MOBLEY'S    COLLECTED     WOBXB. 

11  TOU. 

VOLTAIRE.    ItOI  I  ROUSSBAV.    9  Tola 

DIDBBOT  aad  the  BNCYCLOPADISTB.    2T«la. 
ON  OOMPROMISB.    1 TOL        I        MISOBLLANIBB.    STSla 
BURKE     iTOl.        I        STUDIBS  la  LITBRATUBB.    1  TsA 

SCIENCE  and  a  FUTUBB  LIFB,  and  oOier  lHa7«. 
By  F.  W.  H.  Mixas.  M.A. 

CLASSICAL  ESSAYS.    By  P.  W.  H.  Mtkbs. 

MODEBN  ESSAYS.    By  P.  W.  H.  Mtkrs. 

BECOBDS    of    TENNYSON,    BUSKIN,    and 

BROWNING.    ByAvirxTaAcxsaAiRncau.    *'■''■■-**■»      "^ 

WOI^  by  SIB  JOHN  B.  SSSLBY,  littJ). 

The  EXPANSION  of  ENGLAND. 

LECTURES  aad  BSSAYS. 

UCCE  HOMO.  I  NATURAL  BBLIOION. 

INTRODUCTION  to  POLITICAL  80IBNGB.  Two  Bsilea  of  LscCmss. 

The  WOBKS  of  SHAKESPBABB.      With  Short 
latrodofltiOB  asd  Foot-aoies  by  Prof.  C.  H.  Haatoao.    Ml  sola 
•«•  The  Playa  may  also  be  had  la  separate  Votaama,  doth,  U.  caeh ; 
roaa,fUKtops,2«.eSfeh.  —,*«—, 

WOBKS  by  JAMBS  SMBTHAM. 
LETTERS.     WlSh^aa   latrodaolory    Meaioir.     Bdited  by  Sasab 


Two  Ooaraos  of  Lsecaras. 


SasraAM  aad  WxixxAa  DATcm.   With  a  Portrait. 
LITERARY  WORKS.    Edited  by  WiuiAX  Datob. 

LIFEofSWIFT.  By  Sir  Hehrt  Obaxk.  K.aB.  Jvoh. 
New  Edltloa. 

SELBOTIONS   from   the  WHITINGS  of 

TUURBA  U . 


Of 


BMIiIGIOim 

D.D.  acL. 


ESSAYS  in    the    HI8TOBY 

THOUGHT  ia  the  WEST.    By  Baooaa  f 
Lord  Bishop  of  Darham. 

The   WOBKS   of  WOBDSWOBTH. 

Prof.  Kvioar.     11  toIs.     Each  Vel^ 

Vljtaette  etehed  br  H.  Maaesse. 
POETICAL  WORKS.    StoIs.        |        FBOBB  WOBXE.    9  sola 

JOUBNALS   of  DOBOTHT  WOBD8WOBTH 

2to1s. 


MAGMILLAN  ft  CO.,  LiMiTBD,  London. 


PHated  bj  JOHN  lOWABD  FRAMOLft,  AthaMMxa  Vtsaa,  Bream's  Baildlacs.  Ohaasory  Laae.  B.O.  t  aad  Pal 
JOHM  0.  PRAMQia U Bnus's BDlttam QMiflMri \aaa.V<i.   iahadat.  Jmm  U UOL 


NOTES    AND    QTJERIBS: 

%  yUMnm  at  Intrrcommimiation 


FOB 


LITERARY     MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


^Whibn  found,  make  a  note  of— .Captain  Cuttls. 


No.  180.  [b'LSS.]  Saturday,  June  8,  1901.  { J2Si!r?:SS; 


HENRY   SOTHERAN    &   CO., 

BOOKSELLERS    AND    LIBRARY    AGENTS. 

NEW  BOOKS,  MAGAZINES,  and  NEWSPAPERS,  inclading  FOREIGN  LITERATURE, 
supplied  promptly  on  discount  terms. 

BOUND  BOOKS.— Their  stock  is  large  and  varied  ;  and  castomers  can  rely  on  the  BINDING  OF 
THEIR  OWN  BOOKS  being  executed  with  every  care  for  their  instructions.  STRONG 
CHEAP  BINDING  ^or  Public  Libraries  and  Book  Societies. 

SECOND-HAND  BOOKS.-Their  MONTHLY  CATALOGUE  (known  as  SOTHERAN'S  PRICE- 
CURRENT  of  LITERATURE),  published  in  the  middle  of  each  month  for  over  fifty  years, 
will  be  sent  on  application.  They  guarantee  all  diligence  in  FINDING  BOOKS,  however 
unimportant  or  obscure,  and  execute  with  discretion  COMMISSIONS  AT  AUCTION. 

EXPORT  DEPARTMENT.— To  this  all  the  above  points  apply  ;  but  they  will  be  glad  to  give  any 
information  as  to  terms  and  details,  or  references,  if  desired,  to  a  clientele  unusually  representative 
throughout  the  world. 

ENGRAVINGS  and  AUTOGRAPHS.— a  considerable  collection  of  these  will  be  found  at  their  West- 
Bnd  House,  87,  PICCADILLY,  and  special  Catalogues  are  there  issued  occasionally. 

LIBRARY  ARRANGEMENT.— They  can  give  expert  attention  to  the  complete  FITTING-UP  of 
PUBLIC  or  PRIVATE  LIBRARIES  and  to  the  ARRANGEMENT  and  IMPROVE- 
MENT of  existing  Libraries,  and  the  execution  of  a  LIBRARY  CATALOGUE* 


BOOK-BUYING    DEPARTMENT. 

They  can  always,  at  short  notice,  inspect  and  value  Libraries  or  smaller  Collections 
of  Books,  Prints,  ftc,  in  Town  or  Country,  and  remove  them  on  purchase  for  cash, 
without  expense  or  trouble  to  the  Seller.  THEY  ALSO  VALUE  FOR  INSURANCE 
OR  PROBATE.  

CENTRAL  HOUSE:    140,  STRAND,  W.C,  near  Waterloo  Bridge. 
WEST-END    HOUSE:     37,    PICCADILLY,   W.,    opposite  St  James's  Church. 


Telegn4>hic  Address :  Bookmbn,  Lovdon.    Codes :  Unigods  &.  A  B  C.  Yox&xi^«dL\ii'lQ^«t^'^^^S^»i  ^^»^^. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [»»» s.  vn.  juk.  8.  iwi 


QCOTTISH     NOTBS     and    QUERIES. 

Jut  pnlkUahed,  price  6$.  pMt  free,  a  OBNR&^L  INDEX  to  the  Pint 
Berlea  of  TwelTO  Tolnmea  (1887-1899).  It  eontalmt  circa  17.000  Befer- 
eoces  to  >  wide  TUlety  of  Topiei  Kenaaiie  to '  8.  M.  *  Q.' 

A.  BKUWN  *  00.  PablUben,  88.  VnioM  Street,  Aberdeen. 


TUB  DB  LA  MORW  PRB88. 

P&EPABINO  for  PUBLICATION,  a  New  Work  of  Rreat  ArUttic. 

Hictorical,  Antiquarian,  and  Topoffimphical  Interest. 

MONASTIC    SEALS    of    the    THIRTBKNTH 
CENTUBY.    With  the  Bnglish  Office  for  their  BecepUon 
fiO  Fall-Page  Plates  in  Ck>Uot7pe.    With  Hlstorioal  Introdaction  and 
OeaeriptiTe  Notes  bj 
OALB  PBDBICK,  F.B  HlalSoc 
Presented  in  Old-Faeed  Type,  bennd  io  parehmeot.  and  fUt  lettered. 
Price  to  Snbecribers  before  pabUcation,  21<.  net.  after  which  it  wiU  be 
raised  to  2S«. 
Specimen  Plate  and  Prospectns  free. 
Address:   a.  High  Holbom,  London.  W.C. 

NOW  BBADY,  8B00ND  BDITION,  BBYISBD  and  AUOMBNTBD. 
price  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LTNN.  B.A.  F.B.A.8. 
O.  8T0NBMAN.  88,  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 

TBNTH  BDITION,  price  Two  Shillings. 

pSLBSTIAL    MOTIONS:    a    Handy    Book    of 

Vy    Astronomy.    Tenth  Bdltion.    With  8  Plates.    By  W.  T.  LYNN, 
B.A.  F.B.A.S. 

"  Well  known  as  one  of  oar  best  introdaodons  to  astronomy. 


SAHPSON  LOW  *  00.  St.  Dnnstan's  Honse.  Fetter  Lane,  BC. 

NBW8VBND0RS'      BENEVOLENT      and 
PKOYIDBNT  INSTITUTION. 
.  FoondedlSSO. 
Fands  exceed  21.00W. 
Office :  Memorial  Hall  Boildiags,  16.  Fsrringdon  Street,  London,  B.C. 


The  Right  Hon.  the  BARL  of  R08BBBRY,  ILO. 


The  Right  Hon.  the  LORD  OLBNBSIL 

Sir  W.  J.  RICHMOND  COTTON,  J.P.  (Chamberlain  of  London). 

Treasarer: 

The  LONDON  and  WB8TMINSTBB  BANK,  LIMITBD, 

217.  Strand.  W.C. 

Trostees  (Bx-OAcio  Members  of  Committee) : 

CHARLB8  HBNRY  WALTBR,  Bsq. 

HORACB  BROOKS  MARSHALL,  Bsq.,  M.A.  J.P.  D.L. 

ALFRED  HBNRY  HANCB,  Bsq.  (Chairman  of  Committee). 

CHARLB8  AWDRY.  Beq.,  M.A. 

0BJBCT8.— This  InsUtntton  was  estabUshed  in  1888  in  the  City  of 

London,  nnder  the  Presidency  of  the  late  Alderman  Harmer,   for 

granting   Pensions   and   Temporarj   Assistance   to    principals   and 

assistants  engaged  as  Tendors  of  newspapers. 

A  Donation  of  Ten  Onineas  oonstitotes  a  Vice-President  and  gives 
three  Totes  for  life  at  all  elections.  Bach  donation  of  Three  Onineas 
gires  a  Tote  at  all  elections  for  life.  BTcry  Annual  Sabscriber  is 
entitled  to  one  TOte  at  all  elections  in  respect  ol  each  FItc  Shillings  so 
paid. 

MBMBBRSHIP.-BrerT  man  and  woman  throoghout  the  United 
Kingdom,  whether  pnUUher,  wholesaler,  retailer,  employer  or  em- 

1>loyed.  is  entitled  to  become  a  member  of  this  Institatlon.  and  enjoy 
Uber "'— • 


on  payment  of  FItc  Shillings  annnally  or  Three  Gaineas 
[e,  proTlded  that  he  or  she  is  engaged  in  the  sale  of  newspapers. 
The  principal  featnres  of  the  Boles  goremlag  election  to  all  Pensions 


fnr  Life,  proTlded  that  he  or  she  is  engaged  in  the  sale  of  newsi 

The  principal  featnres  of  the  Boles  gOTeml~ 
are,  that  each  candidate  shall  hare  been  (1)  a 

for  net  less  than  ten  years  preeedir 

flfty-flTC  years  of  age ;  (3)  engaged  in 


Bber  of  the  lastltntion 
(S)  not  less  than 
B  sale  of  newspapers  for  at  least 
lea  years. 

UBLIBF.— Temporary  relief  is  giTcn  in  cases  of  distress,  not  only 
to  Members  of  the  Institatlon,  bat  to  newsvendors  or  their  serYanu 
who  may  be  recommended  for  assistance  by  Members  of  the  Institatlon. 
Inquiry  is  made  In  snch  oases  by  Visiting  Committees,  and  relief  is 
awarded  in  accordance  with  the  meriu  and  reqairements  of  each  ease 
W.  WIUUB  JONBS,  Seeretary. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— 43UGAK— TEA 

104,  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  W.G. 


N' 


EXCHANQE  (or  would  SOB-UET)  for  THRBX 
MONTHS,  a  HOUBB  in  Sonth-Waat  Smbwb  (SSI.  raMtf)  Isr  s 
Residence  in  the  Conntry.  or  Seaside.— Apply  P..  Atheueui  Prssi, 
Breams  Bnildings,  B.C. 

OTBS  AND  QUERIES.— The   SUBSCRIPTION 

to  NOTBS  Axo  QUBRIBS  free  by  poet  is  10«.  8^  for  8lz  Msattei 
or  20«.  9d.  for  TwelTC  Months.  Inclndiag  the  Volnase  ladea.-JOiUl  C 
FBANCI8.  yotcM  mttd  Qtieru*  Office.  Bream's  B«lldings.  Chancery  Laas 

BOOKS,  MS8.,  ftc-Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 
CO..  Auctioneers  of  Boohs  and  Literary  Proper^  of  ercry 
description.  Libraries  and  sraaUer  CoUectloaa  carefnUy  Ustalognes 
and  promptly  oOhred  for  Sale.  Packing  and  ReasoTal  amaged  Isr 
Valuations  made  for  Probate  or  other  porpoees.  Anetton  Booms.  lU, 
Chancery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end).    Bstahlistaed  1S». 

OOKS.— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS   sop- 

>  pUed,  no  asatter  on  what  Subject.  Aeknowledgod  the  wetM  evw 
as  the  most  expert  Bookflnders  estaat.  Please  scat*  wants.— BAKBRiS 
Great  Bookshop,  14-lf.  John  Bright  Street.  BtnslagteM. 

nULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 
^^  for  Searches  and  Anthentle  InfotBation  twepewrlng 

ARMORIAL   BBARINOS  AND  FAMILY    DBiCmNTS. 
with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artietle  Produtton  of 
HBRALDIO  PAINTINO  AND  BMOBATIMO. 
leals.  Dies,  Signet  Rings.  Utwi 
Paper,  Yislttng  and  luTitatioa  \ 


B^ 


Book-Platee.  Seals.  Dies,  Signet  Rings.  UTwy  BMBMa.  Oreeiad  Mois- 
« ; --"^-no«OM4n,*e. 


92.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (oppoatte  the 


Park). 


ATHEN^UM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Pilntar  of  the  Atktiumw^  IMm  mmd  Qmrniit,  *r.  to 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  BSTIMATH  for  aO  klads  of  BOOK.  NBW&. 
and  PBBIODICAL  PRINTINO.— IS,  Bnaa's  BnlMi^a,  rkaniiifj 
Lane,B.C.  ' 

THE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER- PAD. 

X     (The  LBADBMHALL  PBB8S.  Ltd..  FmhUahaca  and  Pitaaan. 

SO,  l.eadenhsll  Street.  London.  M-O.) 
Oontaias  hairiase  papsr,  orar  which  the   pea   siipo  with   pcrlsct 

fk«edom.    Sixpence  each.   As.  per  dasen.  raled  ar  pIsAn.    JH^m  Paekst 

Sise.  Ss.  per  dosen,  mled  or  plala. 
Aathon  ahouid  aoie  that  Tte  LeadeahaU  Pi  aw,  Lta.   cnaaet  ss 

respoasihle  for  the  lorn  of  MS8  by  Sre  or  ochervtaa.    Onplt'ala  eeoMS 

skouid  ber — '"^ 


STICKPHA8T    PASTE    is   HEAPS  better  tbtn 
Onm  for  sticking  in  Scrape.  Joining 
strong,  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy).    Send  i 

le  Bottle,  inelnllng  Bn 

Strsot.B.G.    OfaUStatti 


Leaf  Onait* 


SCHWBPPV  ItVATBBS  awarded  OaM  Matel  at  ftntMtlSMl 
Bxhibitton.  Paris.  1800. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

OchweppesOoda. 

THESK  WATER8  (Soda,  Seltser,  Potftn,  UUub, 
Lemonade,  Tonic-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Diy  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&c.)  have  been  celebrated  foroveraceotorj. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 

/  ENGUSH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:-  \ 
\  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,  > 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  ) 

ScHWEPPSS,  LTD.,  LOHDOK,  ]M[aLVIRN, 

GLASGOW,  LIVBBVOOL,  BBHTOLi  STfiimr.  mi  ] 


««^8.viljune8,i9oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


441 


iJOSDOK  SATURDAW  JUNE  »,  iS&h 


CONTENTS. -No.  180. 

NOTHS;— *The  Tr^tmS  HMnge/  441  -  Kieh^M  BaicnfA  He 
TAnoMtAn.  414— 0-oper«tJve  Trfutliia^8Tilenhfttii  Well* 
Park— St.  EnnifchftJi's  Day— "  Mt'aHi?*"  —  HiiJI  SfcTtriR— 

making  '' Fulr"  — The  WlttlMn  BJjirk  Bejionn  —  n<,L  a 
StracbAn^DamaAk  Ltnen  :  St.  Qeori^t  IH— Bimqiiel  <*!' 
Spring  Onloni*  44T. 

QUBR1BS:— Soffiirrvnle'i  *  Obaee*— RneHiih  R«pr«iiii^t»t|ve 
at  Funerml  M  AlexAinler  I,  — Sir  H.  Ofwuiyer*— Rt'v.  J, 
Chart r6i  —  Gftrmt^  ton!  Maip^r  of  Lnmlnn  —  TmUa  n*  a 
Fenmle  Name  —  "  Thi^n  '*  =Than  —  '*  Rivwne}?."  Ii7  — 
Moltno —Skull «  nn  TmnNitoriet— Loula  XVJ  j  Ai^notiiiit  nf 
hii  TKjHTh— Fininijh*m  Fftmll?— i>r.  Barry.  418-13  Biimt 
— **BHwet?n  the  iiRvil  jinrf  th<»  fi##p  ipa*'— SshlHttr  Phllfn 
Ropher— t>vml  in  PTuviiiqlal  German^  Arffit^tl^  on  a  Fiy— 
OeorfE«  Cooper,  449. 

KBPUBSi-Oreek  Pnmurjiiiatlcm,  44il -Whitgift't  Hn«- 
pital  Crfiydnn.  4^0— A«e  of  Bntrp  •**  tniiK  of  Gnui-t— Duke 
of  Nonruindy  —  Anut  nf  Scotland.  4?*^— "Shlmmnstj?*!'* 
—  Jr^hn  Cae  and  Family  - '*F&ii!riw"E  *' I^ick  Bim  ": 
"  C^'mrherer  ' '  —  "  Knueri  '*  Atirl  "  J! iicee<i antrum  '*  —  Van; 
der  lleiiien  iii\*\  HuRht*nhiira— St.  Qilea'a  Cbuivh,  Nnrth- 
ampUn,  45,1— Jeaii  le  llAnlqiie— "  PamEna  and  Tamifio" 
8bakeapear«  QusHei  —  Dt.  Fortjf^n  Wat-^mi  —  Malt  am! 
Hop  Suti«t.ltHt*fl  ^54— *■  Call AfirJ*"  — Burn bjim  FamiTy-- 
♦*  Sibyl  or  SybM  **  —  Trftn*FiMi.l  Dnteh  —  IUIp«h'ft  Signa- 
ture—CJ"in^ty  AhT¥'VR*  46,^-CarlTle  ^n  '"  moifly  foo^a"— 
Lin«^  r>n  a  SkuJl— Lidy  Purlw^ik  Ami  h^-f  Ban-  '^  TuDpifif" 
and  **  Tipping*'— Tpnu^NHilour  and  Dai  it.  i,'i6— nn*cka*1p  of 
Houi«  of  Saxony^  4fiT— A rbuthnntt— Author*  Wanted,  4!iS. 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS  t-Ootint  M  Leinlngen  Wt-iterinirgV 
•German  Bonk-platei *  —  Baxle'i  'The  Alfred  Jewel  — 
Reviews  and  Magnztnen. 

^otic<^  %n  Odrr«hi|H>ndefitft. 


'THE  TRIBAL  HIDAGE.' 

The  following  table  is  an  attempt  to 
arrange  the  aocient  document  known  as 
*  The  Tribal  Hid  age  *  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
bring  out  its  true  meaninf^f  and  thu!)  enable 
it  to  take  its  place  as  one  of  the  earliest 
extant  dascriptiona  of  England.  This 
arrangement  ahows  that  it  is  a  full  descrip- 
tion of  Mercia,  probably  flaring  the  reign  of 
Wulfhere,  though  the  Mercian  supremacy 
over  Southern  England  la^^ted  till  Bede's 
time  ('  H.E  /  v,  23).  Northumbria  ia  not 
included.  The  various  forms  of  the  docu- 
ment are  eollectcsd  in  Mr.  Bii*ch*s  'Cartula- 
rium/  i.  414-16 ;  and  the  apelling  of  the 
Englinh  text  ha8  been  followed,  though  it 
appears  ti>  err  in  giving  r  for  j?,  just  as  the 
L^tin  texts,  by  another  easy  mistake,  will 
give  p  for  w*  The  arrangement  in  two 
columns  is  proved  to  bo  ancient  by  the 
attempted  additions  (6B,100  after  Oht  gaga 
and  242,700  at  the  end),  but  tliese  figures 
have  been  rejected,  as  well  as  the  interpo- 
lation of  **West  Sexena''  before  the  final 
100,000  hideji,  as  the  errors  of  a  later  time, 
when  the  true  meaning  of  the  table  had  been 
forgot  ten,  and  the  Wettt  Saxons  bad  attained 
supremacy.    It  will  be  seen  that  the  body  of 


(These  include] 
^4.   HendricA         a,CHK) 


the  table  (Nos.  22  and  23)  gives  only  11,000 
hides  to  the  West  Saxons. 

Mert^ia  and  the  Subordinate  Kingdoms  (660-700}. 

Hiii^i.  Illdefi. 

1.  Mjrcrift  Landes  30,000   22.  Hwinca  7,000 

[Including] 

a.  Wr^wfi  Rvrtna    T.ixM)  23.  Ciltem  uetna      4,000 

a.  Weflt**nia  7.0  0 

4    Pwifcutna  l.aoo 

S.  Rimed  ftn^tnn  (fliOO 

fl.  Linden  f^mna  „,  „  '     T" 

with  Hfth  25.  Uiiecung  ga  IM^ 

feld  land  7,000  Jf^  Jro  !.«-tna  ^S 

7,  Buth  Gvrwa  <I00  ^'  ^\^^^  ^^ 

S.  Nf.rt.h  Ovma  vm  ^-  Widflrigga  All 

ft    BaatWSina  300  771" i 

10.  West.  Wljina  (Km  ^  »     ^  ™...  f^'SSJl 

if.  HeriFtlna  «00  ??'  S"^  S^  "*  *2S 

12.  Spal^a  rtOO  :«.  Wr^tWilla  *m 

J  3,  wi««ta         mb  ttt:;, 

14   Pirrpinf?a  :*i>n                                         f*  *™1 

Ifi.  Herettnna  1.3n0              «,    ,^        ^     , 

ifl.  Sweord  ora  vm             31,  East  Eugle          30,000 

IT.  OifiA  ym 

i«.  Hiccft  :m           l\2.  East  Bexenn        7,000 

m,  wiht  gam  eou 

Z 33.  Canlwarena       ir>,fl00 

[7,000]  100,000 

NfJTK.— The  Utin  teita  end  thus  :  "Sulh  iSexena 
100,000;  1300,700"  (or  300,800),  thm  omitline  the  tfue 
hidage  of  the  South  ^axonn,  and  {^^inf?  them  the 
old  total.  It  mmy  he  f^rjinted  out  that  the  new  tot^l 
cannot  l>o  obtatned  except  by  retnirding  (o^  above) 
the  total  of  the  first  column  s^  30,000  only,  The 
total  of  the  En^hsh  text  (242,700)  aeema  to  require 
the  exclusion  of  25  to  28l 

1.  The  first  column  begina  with  a  state- 
ment that  Mercia  had  30,000  hides;,  and 
proceerls  to  give  the  details. 

S.  Wocen  swtna. — These  have  been  iden- 
tified with  the  people  of  Woking.  In  this 
case  we  should  have  to  understand  hy  it  the 
whole  of  Sun^y,  or  an  eyen  larger  area.  In 
666  the  abbe^v  f>f  Chertsey  was  endowed  by 
Frith wald,  King  of  Surrey,  who  is  de«cribecl 
as  an  under-king  of  Wulfhere  of  Mercia.  Vet 
Surrey  never  became  a  part  of  Mercia,  but 
belonged  to  the  West  Saxons,  and  the  Wocen 
Hsetna  should  ha%''e  been  included  in  the  second 
column  of  the  table.  Thi^  objection  to  the 
identification  with  Woking  is  stren|cthened 
on  observing  the  form.  ^  Comparing  it  with 
Pec  sa^tna  and  others,  it  seems  clear  that 
"  Wocen  "  must  be  the  name  of  a  place,  not  of 
a  tribe. 

The  natural  course  for  any  one  compiling 
such  a  table  b^  this  would  he  to  start  from 
the  central  or  dominant  tribe,  and  this  is 
probably  what  was  done.  Bede's  statement 
that  the  North  Mercians  had  7,000  hides  at 
first  appears  to  give  the  clue  ;  but  he  places 
them  north  of  the  Trent  C  H.E^' iii,  24),  and 
it  will  be  found  that  the  Wocen  sietna's  terri- 
tory was  to  a  great  eattent  south  of  itw    The 


442 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      P^  s.  vil  jumt  8. 1901. 


Latin  texts  provide  the  alternative  readings 
Porcensetene  and  Portensetene.  and  thus  we 
arrive  at  Worcen  ssetna  or  Worten  ssetna  as 
the  possible  original.  In  East  Leicestershire 
is  Wartnaby,  which  appears  as  Worcnodebie 
in  Doraasday  Book.  The  prefix  gives  the 
form  required.  But  if  Worten  or  Worcen 
was  the  old  name  for  Central  England,  one 
would  have  expected  more  abundant  traces 
of  it,  in  spite  of  the  changes  wrought  by  the 
Danish  devastations  and  settlements.  Is  it 
not  possible  that  Worten  is  the  English  pro- 
nunciation of  the  tribal  name  calleof  Coritani 
by  the  Romans  ?  Compare  Watling  and 
Catyeuchlani. 

3.  Westema.  —  Having  given  the  central 
people,  the  compiler  takes  a  circular  tour, 
west,  north,  east,  and  south.  The  western 
peoples  here  recorded  without  details  would 
include  the  Mercian  conquests  from  the  West 
Saxons,  Welsh,  and  Northumbrians,  from 
Gloucestershire  to  Lancashire,  more  especially 
the  tribes  west  of  the  Severn  (Hecani,  (fee). 

4.  Pec  scetna. — The  1,200  hides  assigned  to 
these  tribes  would  include  not  merely  the 
Peak  district  of  North  Derbyshire,  but 
probably  parts  of  the  adjacent  country. 

5.  Elmed  $cetna, — The  village  of  Barwick- 
in-Elmet,  near  Leeds,  fixes  the  position.  It 
was  in  the  same  district  that  Penda  was 
slain  in  G55,  when  he  was  beginning  a  cam- 
paign against  the  Northumbrians :  a  proof 
this  was  on  the  northern  boundary  of  Mercia. 
Councils  were  usually  held  on  the  borders 
of  the  states  concerned,  as,  for  example, 
St.  Augustine's  conference  with  the  British 
Churches  in  603,  or  the  Council  of  Hertford 
in  673,  and  the  Field  of  the  Cloth  of  Gold 
in  later  times,  so  that  the  council  by  the 
Nidd  (705),  at  which  St.  Wilfrid  was  restored 
to  his  northern  bishopric,  probably  took  place 
on  a  borderland.  Kemble  quotes  from  Asser 
(Alfred,  anno  867)  a  passage  which  calls  the 
Yorkshire  Ouse  the  Huraoer,  showing  the 
boundary  of  North-humbria. 

6.  The  very  large  district  assigned  to  the 
people  of  Lmdsey  and  Hatfiela  seems  to 
require  that  we  should  include  most  of  the 
modern  Nottinffharoshire  in  it.  In  King 
Penda's  time  all  this  was  Mercian  territory, 
but  the  Northumbrians  made  great  conquests 
after  his  death,  Oswy  becoming  supreme  for 
a  time.  Under  Wulfhero,  however,  tlie  Mer- 
cians "recovere<i  their  liberty  and  their 
lauds,"  and  this  king  was  able  to  give 
St.  Chad  land  for  a  monastery  at  Barrow- 
on-Humber,  and  at  the  same  time  Lindsey 
received  a  bishop  under  Lichfield  (Bede,  iii. 
24 ;  iv.  3,  12) ;  but  before  the  death  of  Wulf- 
here  (675)  the  Northumbrians  again  overran 


the  northern  part  of  Mercia,  the  Bishop  of 
Lindsey  became  subject  to  York,  and  Nottmg- 
ham  also  became  a  part  of  this  great  diocese. 
As  the  diocesan  boundaries  became  fixed 
soon  after  the  Council  of  Hertford,  it  seems 
clear  that  about  700  the  Mercians  had  lost 
their  northern  dependencies,  such  as  Elmed 
and  Hsethf eld  land,  at  least  for  a  tim&  Hence 
it  is  probable  this  table  must  be  dated  before 
the  death  of  Wulfhere. 

7  and  8.  The  Gyrwas  are  several  times 
mentioned  by  Bede.  They  occupied  the  Fen- 
land  and  its  western  shores  in  Lincolnshire, 
Northamptonshire,  and  Cambridgeshire, 
Peterborough  being  in  their  country  (Bede, 
iv.  6).  The  Suth  Gyrwas  are  placed  first,  and 
were  probably  the  more  important.  There  is 
no  need  to  suppose  that  these  tribes  occupied 
compact  blocks  of  territory ;  they  may  have 
had  a  number  of  detached  settlements. 

9  and  10.  East  and  West  FTtjrna.— This 
name  does  not  seem  to  have  survived,  but 
from  its  position  in  the  table  these  tribes 
may  have  occupied  the  Oundle  district^  east 
and  west  of  the  Nen.  This,  however,  is  con- 
jecture. There  is  a  Wicken  in  South  North- 
amptonshire. Exning  (formerly  Ixning),  the 
birthplace  of  St.  Etheldreda,  is  another  pro- 
bable site. 

11.  7/e?«fi7i/i.— This  name  has  been  restored 
from  one  of  the  Ijatih  copies ;  the  600  hides 
are  wanted  to  complete  the  30,000.  The 
position  seems  fixed  by  the  hundred  of 
Hurstingstone  in  East  Huntingdon  (D.B. 
Herstingestan).  South  Cambridgeshire  may 
be  included. 

12.  Spalda  seems  to  point  to  Spalding  in 
South  Lincolnshire ;  there  are  also  Spald  wick, 
near  Huntingdon,  and  Spalford  on  tne  Trent, 
north  of  Newark  (D.B.  Spalling,  Spaldeuic, 
and  Spaldesford).  From  its  position  in  the 
table  it  may  bo  inferred  that  the  second  of 
these  was  then  the  headquarters  of  the  tribe. 

13.  Wigesta  is  preserved  in  the  hundred 
of  Wixaratree  in  East  Bedfordshire  (D.B. 
Wichestanston).  The  Mercian  part  of  Hert- 
fordshire may  have  been  included  in  the 
900  hides  they  held. 

14.  Fcpiynnga,— In  the  manuscripts  this 
name  occurs  in  the  second  column,  but  a 
marginal  note  is  affixed  stating  that  "  F»r- 
pinga  is  in  Middle  England."  It  has  there- 
tore  been  transferred  to  this  column,  anrJ 
comi)lete8  the  total  of  30,000.  Its  position  Is 
unknown.  Bede  (iii.  21)  states  that  Diuroa, 
one  of  St.  Chad's  predecessors,  "died  ainonK 
the  Midland  Angles  in  the  countr>'  cilled 
Feppingum."  If  this  be  the  name  district, 
we  may  have  a  clue  to  its  position  in  the 
fact  that  Charlbury  in  Oxferddim  (in  a 


8ik8.viLJuKB8.i90i.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


443 


detached  portion  of  Banbury  hundred) 
was  associated  with  a  "St.  Dionia,"  who  is 
supposed  to  be  the  same  as  Diuma  (Stanton's 
'MenoloKy,'p.  742). 

15.  ^er^^wia.— There  are  two  Harvingtons 
in  Worcestershire,  one  near  Kidderminster 
and  another  near  Evesham.  The  latter  is 
called  Herferthun  in  Domesday  Book,  but 
the  former  may  indicate  the  position  of  this 
tribe. 

16.  Sweord  ora,  —  Here  we  seem  to  pass 
from  Mercia  proper  to  a  district  in  Hampshire 
which  the  kings  of  the  Mercians  held  in  their 
own  hands.  We  are  told  that  Wulfhere  gave 
the  Isle  of  Wight  and  the  country  of  the 
Meonwara  to  his  eodson  Ethelwealch,  King 
of  Sussex,  when  the  latter  was  baptized  in 
Mercia  in  661.  The  West  Saxons  conquered 
the  Isle  of  Wight  in  686.  The  name  Sweord 
ora  may  be  preserved  in  Swarraton,  near 
Winchester. 

17.  (y?^.  —  Another  reading  is  Eyfla. 
Domesday  Book  gives  an  Effelle  in  Hamp- 
shire, and  Ivelton  (^Everton?)  occurs  later 
among  some  names  belonging  to  the  Hurst 
Castle  district  (3  Edward  III.  in  Cal.  Inq. 
p.m.,  ii.  27).  There  are  now  a  Weevil,  near 
Gosport,  and  a  Wivelrod,  near  Alton. 

18.  Htcca,— One  alternative  reading  Wicca 
may  point  to  Wickham  (D.B.  Wicheham)  on 
the  river  Titchfield,  but  another,  Huta,  is 
better;  it  is  allied  with  Ytene,  the  New 
Forest  district, 

19.  Wiht  gara,  the  inhabitants  of  the  Isle 
of  Wight. —According  to  Bede  (iv.  16)  these 
shouln  have  1,200  hides ;  perhaps  17  to  19 
will  explain  this  apparent  discrepancy— 600 
hides  in  the  island  and  600  on  the  mainland. 

20  and  21.— The  30,000  hides  of  Mercia 
having  been  completed,  what  is  the  meaning 
of  these  divisions :  Nox  gaga  (or  Hex  gaga) 
and  Oht  gaga,  with  7,000  hides  between 
them?  Probably  they  were  administrative 
districts  like  the  later  counties,  and  the 
5,000  hides  assigned  to  the  former  remind 
us  of  Bede's  South  Mercians  (iii.  24); 
but  his  classification  may  refer  to  a  later 
peritxJ  (731).  From  their  position  one  would 
imagine  them  to  be  groupings  of  the  smaller 
tribes,  but  the  hidage  of  these  cannot  be 
arranged  in  two  sums  of  5,000  and  2,000. 
More  reasonably  it  may  be  supposed  that 
they  show  a  division  of  the  Wocen  ssetna. 
The  cleavage  between  the  Mercian  diocoses 
of  Lichfieldand  Leicester  (Lincoln)  by  a  line 
running  northwards  from  Oxfordshire  shows 
that  there  was  some  such  separation  in  the 
political  grouping  at  the  time  the  diocesan 
limits  were  arranged. 

22.  The  second  table  —  of   the    kingdoms 


subject  to  the  Mercians— begins  with  the 
Hwiuca.  Replacing  the  c  by  twe  have  their 
position  fixed  by  Winchester  (Win tanceaster}, 
and  perhaps  Wintney  (Winteney,  35  Ed- 
ward III.). 

23.  The  Oil  tern  ssetna  are  fixed  byChiltern 
in  Wiltshire  and  the  Chiltern  Hills.  In  their 
4,000  hides  we  are  probably  meant  to  include 
the  West  Saxons  of  Somerset,  Dorset,  most 
of  Wiltshire,  East  Berkshire,  and  perhaps 
South  Oxfordshire  and  South  Buckingham- 
shire. Down  to  modern  times  three  detached 
portions  of  South  Wiltshire  were  to  be  found 
m  East  Berkshire. 

It  is  tempting  to  notice  that  23  and  24 
make  up  7,000  hides^  the  total  for  the  Hwinca. 
Apart  from  other  inconveniences,  however, 
it  will  be  found  that  this  solution  spoils  the 
total.  Regarding  these  as  details,  and  25  to 
30  as  independent  tribes  or  districts,  we 
should  have  a  total  of  100,200.  It  is  better 
to  take  the  Hwinca  and  Ciltern  s»tna 
together  as  the  whole  West  Saxon  people, 
and  the  names  that  follow  as  subdivisions, 
but  no  exhaustive  list  is  given  as  in  the  first 
column. 

24.  Hevdrica.—AK&in  changing  c  to  <,  we 
have  the  Hendreds,  near  Wantage  (D.B. 
Henret),  as  the  locality.  The  3,000  hides  of 
the  Latin  text  have  been  preferred  to  the 
3,500  of  the  English,  not  only  as  being 
smaller,  but  as  supplying  the  key  to  the  four 
districts  which  follow.  They  were  apparently 
subdivisions  of  the  Hendrica. 

25.  Unecwng  (/a.— Once  more  preferring  t  to 
c,  we  find  here  an  early  form  of  Wanating 
the  old  name  of  Wantage.  The  large  district 
assigned  to  it  probably  occupied  not  only  the 
northern  half  of  Berkshire,  but  a  large  part 
of  North  Wiltshire,  as  well  as  the  Bampton 
district  of  Oxfordshire.  It  included,  there- 
fore, the  Vale  of  the  White  Horse.  Two 
detached  Dortions  of  Berkshire  were  in  recent 
tiroes  in  Oxfordshire. 

26.  Aro  jcp^na.- Probably  the  dwellers  along 
the  river  Arrow  in  Warwickshire  and  their 
neighbours  This  is  Mr.  Birch's  identifica- 
tion. There  are,  however,  both  Harwell  and 
Harrowdown  in  North  Berkshire. 

27.  Bilmiga,—T\\e  Latin  form  Birmiga 
seems  to  point  to  Burmington  and  Bir- 
mingham in  Warwickshire.  The  old  boundary 
of  the  diocese  of  Worcester  would  include 
26  and  27. 

The  name  Fcpi-jnnga  (our  14)  occurs  in  the 
MSS.  between  the  two  last  named.  If  it 
were,  as  suggested,  in  the  Banbury  or 
Coventry  region,  it  would,  of  course,  be 
physically  adjacent,  and  this  would  supply  a 
reason  for  its  being  apparently  mispla^. 


444 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [^  s.  vii.  junk  s,  i»i. 


28.  Wiclertgga.— This  seems  to  be  fixed  by 
Witheridge  Hill  in  South  Oxfordshire,  which 
may  have  been  the  southern  boundary  of  the 
district,  or  even  its  centre. 

If  this  interpretation  be  accepted,  we  shall 
have  an  explanation  of  two  historical  facts. 
St.  Birin,  in  his  endeavour  to  convert  the 
West  Saxons,  had  his  see  at  Dorchester  on 
the  Thames,  i.e.,  very  conveniently  for  the 
Hendrica  district,  the  river  serving  as  a 
waterway.  Then  in  648  Ken  walk,  on  his 
restoration  to  the  West  Saxon  kingship,  gave 
Cuthred,  his  kinsman,  3,000  hides  of  land  by 
Ashdown,  i.e.,  this  very  district.  A  little 
later  (661)  Wulfhere  of  Sfercia  defeated  Ken- 
walk,  and  laid  the  country  waste  as  far  as 
Ashdown.  This  seems  to  have  been  the 
beginning  of  the  extension  of  the  Mercian 
boundary  to  the  Thames.  If  the  diocesan 
boundaries  were  fixed,  as  is  usually  stated, 
soon  after  the  Synod  of  Hertford  (673X  the 
annexation  of  Warwickshire  and  Oxfordshire 
must  have  been  complete  about  that  time ; 
and  the  translation  ot  the  relics  of  St.  Birin 
to  Winchester  in  686  would  be  an  acknow- 
ledgment, in  deference  to  "accomplished 
facts,"  that  the  West  Saxon  bishop  had  ceased 
to  exercise  any  authority  north  and  east  of 
the  Thames.  On  the  other  hand,  we  find  it 
recorded  that  so  late  as  733  Ethelbald,  King 
of  the  Mercians,  "  conquered  Somerton,"  in 
North  Oxfordshire.  The  annexed  districts 
may,  of  course,  have  been  allowed  some  self- 
government,  and  then  they  may  have  aimed 
at  independence.  St.  Frideswide's  father 
was  under-king  in  Oxford  c.  700. 

It  may  be  noted  that  the  3,000  hides  given 
to  Cuthred  are  sometimes  called  the  *Hhird 
part ''  of  the  West  Saxon  domains.  We  may 
exhibit  this  as  follows :  Hwinca  (proper), 
4,000  ;  Hendrica  (under-kin edom),  3,000  ; 
Ciltem  ssetna,  4,000.  That  only  11,000  hides 
should  be  assigned  to  Wessex  is  another 
pn)of  of  early  date  ;  e.g.,  before  the  complete 
conquest  of  Somerset  by  Ina. 

29  and  30.— The  East  and  West  Willa  were 
no  doubt  the  people  of  South  Wiltshire  and 
a  subdivision  of  the  Ciltem  ssetna.  A  little 
later  w6  find  the  diocese  arranged  so  that 
Winchester  had  the  Hwinca  proper— Hamp- 
shire and  Surrey— together  with  the  Isle  of 
Wight;  and  Sherborne  and  Ramsbury  the 
Ciltern  ssetna  and  what  Mercian  conquests 
had  left  of  Hendrica. 

31  to  34. — These  names  need  no  explanation. 

It  may  be  observed    in  concluding  that 

while  the  hidage  of  East  Anglia  and  Kent 

gives  one  hide  to  about  seventy  statute  acres, 

that  of  Mercia  and  Wessex  gives  one  hide  to 

About  four  hundred  statute  acres.        J .  B. 


RICHARD  ESTCOTT  DE  LANCESTON. 
Close  upon  six-and-twenty  years  ago  there 
appeared  in  *  N.  &  Q.'  (6"»  S.  iv.  127)  a  query 
from  D.  C.  E.,  under  the  heading  *  Earls  of 
Suffolk,'  which  I  do  not  think  has  ever  been 
answered,  but  which  mentioned  an  incidental 
point  that  I  think  worthy  of  revival.  The 
Question  related  to  an  old  MS.  book,  which 
'^appjears  toend  abruptly  in  Charles  I.'s  reign, 
as  if  it  was  compiled  at  that  time,"  and  which 
purported  to  contain 

"theArmoeof  all  those  w*"*  came  In  w«»  W"  the 
Conqueror  and  by  him  Created,  and  the  Armes  of 
all  the  nobles  w«^  Every  King  has  mad  In  his 
seaverall  times." 

My  own  interest  in  the  matter  is  the  added 
statement  that 

"  a  fly-leaf  has  the  name  of  its  onoe  owner  written 
on  it  as  follows  :— 

*  Richard  Esicott, 
De  Lanceston ';" 

and  the  suggestion  of  a  doubt  whether  it  was 
not  a  modern  forgery  got  up  for  sala  On  the 
face  of  it,  I  do  not  see  why  this  doubt  was 
raised,  for  Richard  Estcott,  of  Launceston, 
and  its  Parliamentary  representative  in  the 
early  days  of  Charles  I.,  was  a  very  likelv 
person  to  have  compiled  or  possessed  such 
a  work  as  is  described. 

This  Richard  Estcott  was  the  sod  of  another 
Richard,  of  Launceston  (who  was  mayor  of 
that  borough  more  than  onceX  and  he  matri- 
culated at  Exeter  College,  Oxford,  on  3  July, 
1612,  at  the  age  of  sixteen.  Becoming  a  bar- 
rister at  Lincoln's  Inn  in  1620,  he  was  elected 
to  Parliament  as  *'  Richard  Estcott,  Esq.,  of 
Lincoln's  Inn,  London,"  and  was  one  of  the 
members  for  Newport  (the  sister  borough  to 
Launceston),  in  January,  1624,  having  for  his 
colleague  Sir  John  Eliot,  who  then  commenced 
his  active  patriotic  life.  A  year  later  Estcott 
was  again  returned  to  the  House  of  Commons, 
but  this  time  for  Launceston  and  in  company 
with  Beville  Grenville,  Eliot's  personal  and 
political  friend,  who  had  previously  sat  for 
Cornwall ;  and  they  were  re-elected  in  1626. 
From  this  time  he  disaopears  from  sight, 
though  Foster  in  his  'Alumni  Oxonienses' 
says  he  died  about  1641  -  2.  As  bearing 
upon  the  likelihood  of  his  having  oompilea 
or  possessed  such  a  document  as  is  noted, 
two  points  are  to  be  regarded  as  significant: 
one  that  his  uncle  John  Estcott  (who 
suffered  grievously  for  a  free  criticism  of  the 
Parliament  in  1642)  was  Deputy-Herald  for 
Devon  and  Cornwall ;  the  other  that,  accord- 
ing to  Dugdale,  **Rich.  Escote,  of  lincolo's 
Inn,"  poss^sed  one  of  the  cartularies  of  the 
^diasolved  Priory  of  LaunoeBtoD.  Hewastlienh 


fl»  a  viL  JuNB  8. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


445 


fore  interested  in  record n  of  the  past.    Any- 
thitie  elm  that  could  be  furnishea  aboot  him 
would  specially  interest  the  preeeiit  writar 
Alfeeb  F,  Robbing. 


CJo-opEEATivB  Trading.  — The  first  Uoti- 
green  of  the  Co-operative  Union  held  in  the 

new  century  deserves  a  note.  The  meetings 
comrDenced  oti  the  27 tU  of  May^  at  Middles- 
brough, when  Mr.  Joseph  Warwick  (the  Pre- 
BtdeBt)  mentioned  some  interesting  fact«  as  to 
the  growth  of  the  movement.  The  Union  was 
started  io  1844,  when  twenty- eight  men  com- 
bined together;  their  capital  (which  they 
pooled)  was  28^-  Their  trade  in  the  first  year 
was  710/.  At  the  close  of  last  year  there  were 
in  the  United  Kingdom  1,464  distributing 
Bocietiest  having  a  membership  of  1,709,371, 
with  share  capital  of  20^566, 23  U.,  doing  a 
trade  of  over  fifty  miJlions  and  handing  back 
to  the  members  7,747,338/.,  showing  a  net 
aaviog  on  the  spending  power  of  the  con- 
a»umer  of  15  per  cent.  N.  B*  S. 

Sydenham  Wiixs  Park.— The  dedication 
of  this  park  to  public  use  for  ever  is  of  interest 
to  the  antiquary.  The  name,  as  rearlers 
of  *  N.  ife  Q.^  will  remember,  commemorates 
i4ome  mineral  sjjrings  discovere<l  in  1640,  and 
referred  to  by  Evelyn  in  his  *  Diary.'  Syden- 
ham is  also  a.ssoci»te<i  with  the  poet  Camp- 
bell ^  there  he  pasned  the  happiest  yeai*s  of 
fais  hfe,  and  remained  until  he  became  eriitor 
of  the  A^ew  Jfonlhl}/.  A.  N.  Q. 

St.  Baenabass  Day,  11  June,— May  I  be 
allowed  to  say,  with  reference  to  a  reply 
tinder  the  heading  ^  Suifolk  Name  for  Lady- 
bird,' anie^  p,  396,  that  8t.  Barnabas's  Day 
is  the  day  on  which  tlie  sun  in  his  upwaro 
course  in  the  zodiac  attains  such  a  heigjit 
that  there  is  no  absolute  darkness  in  the 
midnight  aky  ?  The  old  saying  as  prescrvefJ 
in  this  part  of  England  is 

Httrdftby  brit^ht, 

All  day  and  do  night. 

The  longest  day  and  summer  solstice  fall  on 
22  June,  when  su miner  begins. 

John  P.  Stilwell. 
Him«ld,  y*t«Iey,  H»nta. 

**  Mealies.^ — This  word  came  into  promi- 
nenee^  according  to  the  *  Encyclopaedic  Dic- 
tionary^/ from  being  used  in  newspapers 
in  connexion  with  the  Zulu  war  of  181'J,  Its 
derivation  is  given  incorrectly  not  only  in 
the  ' EncyciopttKliCt*  which  assumes  it  to  be 
from  English  meal^  hat  even  in  the  *  Century 
Dictionary,^  which  calls  it  South  African. 
It  is  a  Portuguese  term,  no  more  ongitially 


South  African  than  fusegai  or  knviL  It  is 
not  South  African  in  even  the  broadest  sense, 
as,  although  now  excliisively  associated  with 
the  Cape,  it  was  in  the  seventeenth  century 
current  in  West  Africa,  which  means  that  we 
must  have  obtainefl  it  independently  from 
the  Portuguese  before  wo  l^ecame  familiar 
with  the  Vkpe  Dutch  (ultimately  Portuguese) 
mitje,  pronounced  meftiie.  In  an  anonymous 
work  called  *The  Golden  Coast'  (imi-'J)  I  find 
on  p.  14  a  reference  to  "milty,"  and  on  p.  7G 
"  their  brea^l  is  of  miUm  or  mais."  Bos  man's 
'Guinea '  (lT05)distinguishes  between  "grater 
milhio "  and  "  le-^ser  milhio/'  which  are  evi- 
dently identical  with  the  "grosae  milie*'  and 
"  kleine  milie  "  of  Muller's  *  Gold-Cust  '(1673). 
The  French  equivalents  were  **gros  mil  "  and 
"petit  mil."  Ja*?.  Platt,  Jun. 

Hull  fsAYiHr,.— AlK>ut  twenty -five  years 
ago  a  popular  saying  in  the  Hull  dialect  was 
"Ah*ll  travis  ther,^^  or  sometimes  in  better 
English  it  was  put  "I  will  travis  thee. 
This  saying  had  almost  gone  out  of  use,  anrl 
has  just  been  mentioned  in  the  locul  pa^jerH 
on  the  death  of  tlie  respected  local  stipendiary 
magistrate  Jlr.  Twiss,  who  tempered  justice 
with  mercy.  His  predecessor  Mr,  Travis 
was  noted  for  his  severe  sentences  ;  hence  the 
threat  of  punishment,  which  carrier!  terror  to 
not  a  few  in  the  chief  town  on  the  Humlier. 
Some  years  since,  1  remember,  when  8ir  Albert 
K.  Rollit,  M.R,  was  President  of  the  Hull 
liiteniry  and  Philosophical  Society,  he  lectured 
on  *  Word  Phras&s,'  Ac*,  and  the  greatest  hit 
he  made  in  his  admirable  address  was  ^*  Ah  71 
travis  ther,"  His  memory  was,  and  I  suppose 
is  still,  well  stored  with  local  lore. 

William  Andrews. 

Royal  Inatittition,  Hull 

**  CoosT*"— When  Duncan  Gray,  aecording 
to  his  veracious  historian,  went  a-eourting 
"on  blythe  Yule-night,"  the  reception  he  got 
at  the  outset   of   his   experiment  was  not 

Sarticularly  encouraging.  On  thf^  contrary, 
faggie,  the  young  tady  whose  gooti  opinion 
he  desired  to  win,  "  coost  her  heafi  fu'  neich," 
and  Duncan  no  doubt  felt  considerably  dis- 
concerted. Grappling  with  the  trying  situa- 
tion, in  his  "Golden  Treasury"  volume  of 
*  English  Lyrics'  (p.  364,  ed.  1898)  the  late 
Mr.  Tal grave  annotated  "coost"  as  carried, 
which  gives  a  very  imperfect  idea  of  what 
actually  occurred.  Maggie  cast  or  tossed 
her  head,  not  merely  a-ssumingdignilied  pride, 
as  suggested  by  Prof.  Palg ravels  gloss,  but 
indicating  supreme  contempt.  The  word  is 
the  same  as  that  which  occurs  in  the  descrip- 
tion of    the  ghoHtl^   dB,w^^e^  Vx^  *^  k^^  VvtN^ 


446 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      i9^8.  vil  june8,i9oi. 


furious,  atid  the  heat  m  great,  that  *'ilka 
carlin,"  miraculoUiily  perspiring,  "cooat  liL*r 
duihiieH  to  tlio  wark."  The  same  form  \h 
found  in  'The  Hfjatie  Row^*  although  Ewen'K 
fipelling  diiTera  from  that  of  Burn«  i— 
I  cutsL  my  Imeii  iti  Lnii^  b^y. 
In  refei-ence  to  Burns  as  represent  f^W  in  the 
*'  (Joliieti  Treasury  "  volume,  it  may  Vie  penuii?- 
Mible  to  Hfid  here  that,  even  with  the  warrnn^ 
given  in  Iii^  note,  it  is  a  pity  that  Prof.  Pal- 
^mve  inclodetl  the  two  stanssas  ad  clef  I  by 
John  Hariiilt*m  to  the  exquisite  lyric  "  U'  a' 
the  airt«  the  m  ind  can  blaw."  They  are  good 
in  tliemselvesi  hot  they  form  an  excreiicence 
on  tlie  song.  Besides,  they  are  apt  to  be 
read  as  an  integral  part  of  the  whole,  while 
the  unobtrusive  little  sentence  regarding 
them  J n  the  note  at  the  end  of  the  volume, 
is  altogether  unnoticed.       Thomas  Bayke. 

Tklkukaphy:  its  Ihvkntion.— The  Abbe 
Barthelemy  neems  to  have  had  a  prevision  of 
the  practical  use  to  be  made  of  electricity  in 
sending  messages.  Writing  to  Madame  du 
DefFand  in  1772,  he  observes  :— 

**  It  iii  *Jiiid  that  with  two  timeniecea,  the  hands 
<>f  whicli  are  iniagnetic,  it  ia  enougn  to  inova  onu  of 
tho«e  hands  fo  make  the  other  Lake  the  same  direc- 
tion, BtJ  that  by  caueitijc  one  to  strike  twelvo  the 
othitr  wilt  strike  the juine  hour.  Let  us  auptiose  that 
artiheial  magnets  were  iinp roved  to  the  point  that 
their  virtue  could  commutncate  itself  froni  here  to 
Paris ;  you  h&ve  one  of  these  timepieces,  we  another 
of  theni  I  instead  of  hours  wt;  tiud  iho  letters  of  tlte 
alphabet  on  the  diaL  Everv  day  at  a  certain  hour 
we  turn  the  hand,  and  M.  Wiard  [Madame  tlu 
Uetfand's  e^ecreiary]  puts  together  the  letters  and 
reads., ...Thi^  Idea  pleases  me  imman^ely.  It  ^'outd 
aoori  be  corrupted  by  applyinj^  it  to  a|iytng  in 
armies  and  in  palitica,  but  it  would  be  very  agree- 
able in  eommoree  and  in  friendship*"—"  Correal M>n- 
dant:e  Complete  de  M'"*du  Dcffaud  avee  la  Duuhesae 
do  Choiseul,  TAbb^  Bartli^lemy  et  M.  Craufurt, 
|iubliee  avee  une  introduction  par  M.  le  Marquis 
do  SaiDtc-Aulairei"  tome  ii.  p,  224, 

"Fair"  and  makinu  ^VFaih."— The  desire 
of  girk  buthJinginto  womanhood  is  toliecome 
fair,  and  thinga  are  done  in  ^secret  with  tlve 
iihieet  of  pi'otlucing  the  de«ire<]  effect.  Thi« 
folk-lore  ia  no  doubt  of  very  ancient  descent, 
and  contributors  may  be  able  t^  Rive  noine 
details  of  interest.  Sonie  eat  chalk,  munch 
rice,  abstain  from  meat,  and  others  liurn 
pieces  of  tea-cake  black  throu|[h  and  eat 
them  for  the  a&me  purpose.  It  h  somewhat 
curioua  that  white  and  black  aubstaiu-ei*  are 
believed  to  product  the  same  effect. 

Thos.  IIatiliffe. 

Worksop. 

The    IV^fLLiAM    Black    Beacon.  —  Many 


following  linea,  whieb  were  written  by  Lord 
Archibald  Campbell,  brother  of  the  Duke  of 
Argyll,  on  the  occasion  of  the  lighting  for 
the  first  time,  on  the  afternoon  of  Monday, 
13  May,  of  the  light  in   the   beacon  tower 
erected  at  Duart  Point,  Mull,  as  a  inemnrtal 
of  William  Blacky  who  waa  an  ardent  lover 
of  the  We^^tern  Highlands  of  S420tland.    Lord 
Archibald  Campbell  ha^,  by  the  way,  written 
a  gmKl    deal   of  verse.     I    wonder  if   manj 
rearlerfi  of  *  N.  k  QJ  are  famiUar  with  hn 
linen  in  the  Scottish  vernacular  adrlre^f^  to 
Andrew  Lang.   Here  ih  the  little  poem  written 
for  the  Black  memorial  and  daJieatad  to  the 
daughters  of  the  novelist  :— 
In  Stlsxc*e  Aij-. 
Here,  'mid  the  splendour  of  the  dying  day, 
W*e  oonaecrate  thia  light,  in  love's  own  way. 
In  silence  alL 

It  la  in  silenoe  that  the  day  ii  \mm : 
It.  la  in  allance  thai  the  day,  well  wcrrn, 
Sinks  into  nighL 

Is't  not  in  siletice  that  deej>  love  ia  homf 
It  is  in  »ileuce  that  deep  ^ief  b  home — 
In  silencie  aU. 

John  GBiGOit. 

105,  Cboumert  Road^  Paekham. 

Col.  Archibald  Stkachaij.  — In  the  *  Dic- 
tionary of  National  Biography '  (lv_  9)  the 
(late  of  CoL  Strach&n^^  death  in  given  vaguely 
afi  l(j51.  It  took  place  in  November,  1652^  aij 
the  following  extract  from  a  newspaper 
proves.  A  letter  dated  Leith,  13  November^ 
im2,  Hays:— 

*'  The  great  ch&mpioti  of  the  Kirk,  UoL  Strashcn« 
wcie  this  day  burieo,  dying  e3(C0Tiimiiuic»te  (becanne 
he  (^liine  in  to  the  Engliahl.  Few  ^^c'OU  i»D}e  to  his 
buruilh  but  many  English  went,  ^o  that  it  nmv  h^ 
jiiiid,  hee  lived  a  Scot,  but  biiryed  by  Enuliih."'— 
Sfvtrai  Procefditiffff  in  Parfiafmnf,'  1S*2S  Nov., 
165i 

C.    H-    FlETH. 

Damask  Linen:  St. Gkorce.— On  30 April 
last,  the  octave  of  St,  George's  Day^  I  ofHciated 
at  a  village  wedding  in  my  Worcestershire 
parhh.  In  the  afternoon,  according  to  a 
tiot  unc^uHtomary  invitation,  I  went  to  the 
cottage  of  the  nride'i*  family  —  a  timberf«j, 
thatched^  and  whitewashed  cottage^  where 
a  dozen  of  u^^  sat  down  to  te&  and  more  than 
filled  the  roonj.  We  did  not  sit  at  ease,  for 
the  ancient  stone  floor  was  very  aneven.  The 
tea-table  waa  covered  with  a  cloth  which  liad 
belonged  to  the  bride'a  g  teat -grand  mother. 
I  borrowed  it  the  next  day,  in  order  to  make 
a  closer  examination.  It  i^  of  coar;^  linen^ 
meaj^urea  about  6 ft,  by  Tft^and  is  slightly 
fringed  at  the  ends.  In  the  midst  of  walls, 
gateiJ,  domes,  ^nd  cross  -  beanng  tower%  ol 


fvMj&f8of  *  ^,  &  0/ wiU  be  it^t^T^t;^  ^^  ^^^^W  ^i^'^V^  B^jtaatipe   ^^p^  ^Pp^*^  "^^ 


V  8.  vn.  jdnk  8. 1901.)        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


447 


St.  George,  an  armed  knight  on  horseback, 
holding  iti  his  right  hand  an  upright  swoixj, 
and  with  his  left  thrusting  hi.^  lance  into 
the  open  jaws  of  a  dmiron  ;  over  hi'j  head, 
KiTKR  s,  c.£OE<:b  J  secondly ^  a  lady  in  j^ven- 
teen  th 'Cen  tu  ry  COS  tu  me,  Stan  d  i  n  g  near  an  open 
gateway  and  a  palm-like  tree,  and  holding 
a  dog  oy  a  cord  ;  by  her  side,  des  eonigib 
TOCHTER.  These  devices  occur  twelve  times^ 
and  face  the  upper  and  under  nurfaces  of  the 
cloth  alternately  ;  the  whole  surrounded  by 
a  flower  border.  Similar  designs  have  been 
mentioned  in  1**  S.  iL  199;  iii,  13,  229;  iv. 
446  ;  3f^  S,  iv.  473,  &28  ;  S^  S.  vl  227,  2m,  496. 

W.  C.  B. 

Bahqurt  of  Bprino  Onions,  "A  curious 
castom  iH  annually  observed  at  Bourne, 
Lincolnshire.  They  have  what  is  callerl  a 
"White  Breaxi  Meaidow/'  and  this  was  let  on 
19  April  for  the  year.  Tlie  rent  jroes  to 
provide  the  householders  in  Weatgate  Ward 
with  loaves  of  whit-e  bread,  in  accordance 
with  the  request  of  the  founder  of  the 
charity.  After  the  distribution  there  was 
an  audit  of  the  accounts,  and  the  company 
were  regaled  with  bread,  cheese,  and  spring 
onions.  This  custom  has  not  been  recorded 
in  *  N.  Jc  Q/         EvERARD  HoMB  Colemau, 

71,  firof^  knock  Eoad. 


W?  must  reuQCtfit  uorres}K}Q^G[)ta  detiiin^  iufor- 
TnfttioR  on  fo^muy  matt^^rB  of  only  private  i literal t 
to  &&X  their  names  &iid  &ddre]SHt$ii  t-o  th^lr  queriesp 
in  order  th&t  the  ancwers  may  be  addrosg^d  to  them 
dif^t. 

SoMEBYiLLB's  *Chace/— I  am  told  that 
about  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century 
some  misguided  person  was  so  disgnstod  with 
the  blank  verae  of  this  poem— while  watisfied 
enougb  with  the  matter  of  it— that  ho  trans- 
lated it  into  heroic  couplets  !  I  should  much 
like  to  have  particulars  of  this  toiir  de  force. 
My  informant  saw  the  book  on  a  boolcstalli 
but  thought  at  the  time  he  did  not  want  it. 

ROBT.  J,  WllITWELL. 

Oxford. 

Engush  Reprbskntative  at  the  Funeral 
OF  Alexander  1.  —  You  will  greatly  oblige 
me  by  saying  which  duke  m^as  Bent  to 
Russia  to  represent  King  George  IV.  on 
the  occasion  of  the  funeral  of  the  Emperor 
Alexander  I  in  1826.  J,  M.  S. 

Sia  Henry  OoanVERE,— In  the  *  Worthies 
of  Warwickshire  ^  the  author,  the  Rev.  F,  L. 
Col  vile,  says  that  he  could  not  aacertaia  the 
d^te  of  tm  death  ol  Bir  Henry  Goodyerei  of 


Poles  worth,  but  that  it  occurred  "certainly 
before  1«27/'  He  was  appointed  a  trustee  of 
Rughy  School  in  1G02,  and  again  in  1614 
Can  any  reader  send  me  the  exact  date  of  his 
death  I  A,  T.  Michell. 

Rugby. 

Rkv,  Jameb  Chartres.— Any  biographical 
details  concern  in  j?  the  above  wdl  lie  welcome. 
He  died  at  War  boy «,  Hunts^  1  September, 
1623.  He  was  Fellow  of  King's  College,  Cam- 
bridge ;  head  master  of  Atherstone  Free 
Grammar  School  for  thirty  years  ;  vicar  of 
Ood mane h ester ;  and  held  the  vicarage  of 
West  Haddon  from  1784  to  1823. 

JOHH  T.  PAilE. 
West  Haddi>n,  NorthamptoiVBhire. 

John  Gaeratt,  I>ord  Mayor  op  London. 
—Can  any  reader  of  *N.  &  0^'  favour  roe 
with  the  date  of  death  of  John  Oarratt,  Loi-d 
Mayor  of  London  1824-5  ]  He  was  alderman 
of  Bridge  (Without)  Ward  1821-31,  and  his 
name  appears  in  the  CommiHsion  of  Lieu* 
tenancy  for  London  in  the  *  lloyal  Kalendar ' 
up  to  1861  inclusive,  wliich  suggests  that  he 
must  have  died  either  in  that  year  or  late  in 
I860,  but  1  can  find  no  notice  or  record  of 
his  death.  B* 

Valia  as  a  Female  Name,— Kindly  give 
me  the  origin  and  meaning  of  the  woman ^s 
name  Yalia  (or  Yahlia,  I  am  not  Hure  of  the 
spelling),  I  believe  it  iii  either  a  Russian  or 
Polish  name.  Major. 

*' Then  "  =  Than. -At  what  date  did  the 
comparative  conjunction  *^  then  "  finally  l}e' 
couve  *Hban  "?    On  p,  268  of  "The  Original 
of  all  Plot?*  in  Christendom,  *kc*,  by  W,  Say- 
well,  D.D.,  Master  of  Jesus  (Jolledge  in  Cam- 
bridge (London,  1G80)/'  one  finds  :  "  But  they 
had  other  notioDs  of  a  General  Council,  about 
the  beginning  of  the   Heforamtion......then 

they  have  had  since."  In  all  other  places  in 
thia  volume  ^*than"  m  used .  and  in  thisj  it 
may  be  a  misprint.  I  have  read  a  copy  o 
thisi  book  in  which  the  following  misiprints 
have  been  marked  in  an  apparently  j^even- 
teen th- century  handwriting;  p,  52,  '^same'* 
road  soimd;  p.  C6,  ^^Piut*'*  read  SuHwtj 
** state"  read  da^g ;  p.  119,  **your^'  reafl 
uppon  :  p.  12%  "having''  read  ham;  p.  130, 
^*  Religion"  read  rrlt/  on;  p.  187,  "Alivani" 
read  Alnuttn:  p.  190,  "Augustine*-  read 
Auguitune  ;  p,  225.  "Satisfaction "  read  SanHi- 
ji4iatirm:  p.  4<KJ,  "Socinians"  read  Simrjnifins; 
p.  411,  **  Fifth  "  read  Fint 

E,  S,  DonoBON. 

"  Sawney.''— In  the   opening   chaiptec   c^l 


448 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.        »*  S.  VIL  Juki  8.  iwl 


ceasing  to  be  a  thoroughfare,  in  the  time  of 
the  tale,  **  after  a  long,  straggling,  sawney 
course. "  In  chap.  v.  Lady  Hampshire  is  said 
to  have  spoken  "in  her  sawney  voice  of 
factitious  enthusiasm,  as  if  she  pitied  the  lot 
of  all  those  who  were  not  about  to  sleep  in 
wet  sheets."  What  is  the  precise  signification 
of  "sawney  " ?  The  dictionaries  immediately 
available  do  not  help,  except  to  the  extent 
of  giving  a  similar  form  as  a  variant  of 
"Sawny,"  the  national  nickname  for  a 
Scotsman.  The  meanings  offered  in  Halliwell 
seem  inappropriate  to  either  of  the  usages 
cited.  Thomas  Bayne. 

MouNK  Family.— There  is  a  letter  signed 
Francis  Moline  in  a  pamphlet  relating  to  the 
execution  of  a  Capt.  iiurley  in  the  Civil  War. 
The  letter  is  dated  4  February,  1647,  from 
Carisbrooke Castle.  Is  anything  more  known 
of  this  Francis  Moline  or  any  of  the  same 
name  ?  I  am  also  very  anxious  to  get  into 
communication  with  a  family  of  tho  same 
name  in  France  with  whom  an  ancestor  of 
mine  had  correspondence  in  1767  —  the 
Molines  of  St.  Yon.  I  see  from  the  British 
Museum  Catalogue  that  aOeneral  Alexandre 
Pierre  Moline  de  Saint  Yon  published  a  book 
on  the  Counts  of  Toulouse  in  1860.  Can  any 
one  tell  me  how  1  can  find  out  the  present 
address  of  this  family  ? 

Reginald  Haines. 

Uppingham. 

Skulls  on  Tombstones.— In  churchyards 
in  Aberdeenshire,  and  perhaps  elsewhere, 
skulls  carved  on  tombstones  have  sometimes 
a  projection  like  a  mushroom  growing  as  it 
were  out  of  the  ear  on  the  side  most  exposed 
to  view.    What  does  it  represent  ? 

John  Milne. 

108,  Clifton  Road,  Aberdeen. 

Louis  XVI.:  Account  of  his  Death.— 
At  Sotheby's  a  little  while  ago  was  sold  an 
autograph  letter  from  Sanson,  the  execu- 
tioner, to  the  editor  of  a  newspaper  in  Paris. 
The  letter  is  dated  20  February,  1793,  or 
less  than  a  month  after  the  execution  of 
Louis  XVI.,  and  gives  a  minute  account 
of  the  last  moments  of  the  king  and  the 
words  used  by  him  upon  the  scaffold.  Sanson 
was  not  only  an  eye-witness,  but  also  a  most 
important  actor  in  a  scene  which  must  have 
been  still  vividly  in  his  recollection  as  he 
wrote,  yet  the  account  does  not  coincide  in 
all  points  with  other  accounts  to  which  we 
are  accustomed.  He  takes  some  pains  to 
contradict  a  report  probably  circulated  at 
the  time,  that  the  king  struggled  violently 


petit  debat  qui  si  fit  au  pied  de  TechafilBkud  " 
was  due  to  his  dislike  to  taking  off  his  coat 
or  having  his  hands  tied,  and  his  wish  to  be 
permitted  to  cut  his  hair  off  himself.  Sanson 
also  implies  that  the  king  was  not  at  any 
time  allowed  to  address  the  people,  as  he 
wished  to  do,  and  that  when  it  was  explained 
to  him  that  "la  chose  ^toit  impossible,"  he 
permitted  himself  to  be  led  to  the  guillotine, 
it  was  here,  and  to  those  standing  around 
him  -  not  to  the  people — that  he  made  his 
speech.  The  words  also  are  not  the  same  as  are 
given  in  other  accounts.  The  letter  concludes 
with  an  admission  that  ''il  a  soutenu  tout 
cela  avec  un  sang  froid  et  une  fermette  que 
nous  a  tous  etonnes."  Is  this  letter  known 
to  historians  ?  I  need  not  point  out  that  the 
account  varies  from  that  given  by  C^riyle, 
Bertrand-Moleville,  Clery,  De  (Jonches,  &c 
Some  years  ago  your  correspondent  Dv^ 
Chance  gave  some  mteresting  notes  from  the 
^Memoires  des  Sansons,'  a  work  not  often 
met  with  j  in  it  there  may  be  something  on 
the  subject.  Charles  L.  Lindsay. 

[Dr.  Chance's  note  at  8""  8.  z.  219  dealt  with 
Sanson's  interview  with  Louis,  when  the  king  sug- 
gested an  improvement  in  the  construction  of  the 
guillotine.  Or.  Chance  also  had  a  note  on  the 
history  of  the  guillotine  in  8'*'  8.  xi.  22,  but  neither 
article  describes  the  king's  execution.] 

Fillinoham  Family.— I  desire  to  ascertain 
all  that  is  to  be  known  about  the  Fillingham 
family.  They  were,  I  understand,  at  one 
time  resident  in  Lincolnshire.  What  was  the 
origin  of  the  name  ?  Where  can  any  record 
respecting  them  be  best  found,  6ic,  7 

Q.  Fillingham. 
16,  East  Parade,  Leeds. 

Dr.  Barry.— In   *The  Journal   of   Mrs. 
Fenton'  (Arnold),  which  is  an  interesting 
chronicle   of    European   society    in    India, 
Mauritius,  and  Tasmania  in  1826-30,  a  refer- 
ence to  this  curious  figure  in  military  history 
crops  up.    Can  any  reader  state  if  he  (or  she) 
is  the  only    such    instance   known    among 
English  commissioned  officers?     I)r.  Baro' 
was  in  1829  the  military  '*  superintending 
surgeon"   at   Port   Louis,  and   the  author, 
who  was  on  friendly  terms  with  him,  states 
that  an    extraordinary  mystery  then    sur- 
rounded him,  and  that  he  was  .said  to  be  a 
woman.    Mrs.  Fenton  writes  that  she  had 
been  informed  of  this,  when  in  India  a  year 
or  two  previously,  by  a  nurse  who,  sent  by 
a  patient  in  urgent  need,  had  entered  the 
doctor's  room  unceremoniously,  and  had  seen 
that  the  doctor  was  not  of  the  sex  which  be 
professed  to  be.    The  nurse,  thus  obtaining 


VMM%3  MujVf  i/ij»i/    i/iju  Kiug  auru^^^itsu  vioienuy    pruit»»cu  uj  oe.     xoe  nurse,  ^nu8  oocaining 
And  had  to  be  bound  by  force.    **  L'eap^ico  d^W^i  wi<ivi««it.  the  doctor's  secret^  had  excited 


9»  8.  Vn.  June  8,19010        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


449 


lis  enmity  and  had  been  pursued  by  bla 
lisHke,  the  result  being  that  she  lost  her 
employment  and  was  driven  from  Cape 
Town,  where  the  incident  occurred,  I  believe 
M9  Dr.  Barry  to  be  identical  with  the 
uilitary  surgeon  who  is  mentioned  by  one 
>r  two  other  writers  as  having  a  long  career 
n  the  army^  and  having  died  many  years 
kfter  1^30  in  London,  wnen  his  secret  was 
liiscovered.  Can  any  reader  supply  refer- 
fncea?  W.  H,  Quaehklu 

[Tb©  *  D.  N. B/  atate»  that  Dr.  Jamea  Batry  eotcred 
he  army  as  9.  hospital  assisttttit  5  July,  18i;i ;  be- 
amo  inapeck>r-g«Qerai  7  iJec,  1858 ;  and  died  m 
jandoti  25  July,  1885,  the  fact  that  the  doctor  was  a 
romati  not  being  diot-overod  till  aft^r  death.] 

Ernest  Eu  as  v.— Amongst  my  poetic  and 
^ther  extracts  I  havSi  in  one  of  my  in anu script 
looka^  a  little  poem  entitled  *  Chant  de-^ 
Imoiira,'  by  Emest  Bussy*  "a  Swins  poet," 
b3  1  have  noted.  It  consists  of  four  five-iine 
tanzas,  and,  like  Mr.  Alfred  Austin's  poem 
The  Golden  Year,'  it  goea  through  the  four 
ieaaona,  only  it  does  not  end  so  painfully  aa 
Hr,  Austin '»  pathetic  lyric.  Can  any  one  tell 
ne  anything  about  Lrne^t  Buasy  I  What 
^Ite  has  he  written  ?  Here  is  the  first  verse 
jf  Bussy*a  *  Chant  ';^ 

Dans  Id  ftoirs  d*Avril  011  tout^  lienr  pf^usse, 
Oh  le  copQr  s'emplit  de  |ier)s<.*efi  d 'amour, 
Parle  4  ui  Iri-a  bas  d'une  voix  trus  dotice. 
Dana  Jbh  »oira  d'Avril  ou  tuule  tieur  pouB%e 
Hatt-toi  d 'aimer  I    Le  prifilemiia  est  court. 

jokathax  bouchikr. 

"Bet^^^een  the  de%'1l  and  the  deep  sea." 
—Origin  and  earliest  references  for  this 
>hrasa  are  asked,  G. 

Schiller,  Philo80PHEk.— Will  some  kind 
trader  inform  me  if  there  are  any  French 
.ranjulations  of  the  works  of  this  philosopher, 
specially  of  hiii  most  valuable  contribution 
43  the  philosophy  of  evolution  callerl  *  Riddles 
>f  the  Sphinx  * !  He  wats  a  professor  of  the 
Jomell  University  and  an  M,A,  (Oxon,)  in 
1894.  Is  he  stiil  alive  ?  Wim  have  been  his 
;ritic3?  Tyrone. 

Dual  Number  in  Provincial  German.— 
[n  the  Fli€ff€nde  Blatter^  vol  cvii.  p.  216, 
I  pea^iant  speaking  to  hi^  two  sons  is  made 
JO  say, "  Scho'  war's,  Buab^n,  brav  habt'«  Enka 
5ach  g'roacht!"  Is  «nX:ti  (  —  ciMi-eJr)  a  late  sur- 
vival of  the  dual  possessive,  meaning ''your'* 
com  p.  Early  English  hiker)  l  What  is  the 
iialect  representtiJ,  and  are  any  o titer  dual 
'onus  still  in  use  1  E.  B* 

Aristotle  on  a  Fly. —In  a  sermon  of  Dr, 
ixinth  I  read»  ^'Life  is  so  high  a  perfection 
>f  being  that  iu  this  respect  the  least  fly  or 


mite  is  a  more  noble  beinE  than  a  star."  This 
memorable  observation  I  long  ago  heard  to 
be  a^  old  as  Aristotle,  and  yet  I  have  not 
met  with  it  iu  his  works.  I  shall  therefore 
feel  very  grateful  to  any  Aristotelian  reader 
of  *  N,  ik  Q»'  who  will  enlighten  my  ignorance 
in  this  regard.    Where  ia  it  ] 

James  D.  Butler, 
MiMiison,  Win* 

George  CoopeRj  of  Clarendon  Park^  Wilta, 
next  brother  to  the  first  Earl  of  Shaftesbury, 
Is  it  known  when  he  died  I  He  was  alive  m 
1677.  His  only  surviving  son  died  un- 
married in  1727  J  but  he  left  six  daughters, 
of  whom  the  eldest  was  wife  of  William 
Han  ham,  of  Wimborue^  Dorset,  ancestor  of 
the  present  baronet.  W.  D*  Pine. 


GREEK  PRONUNCIATION. 
(9^S,  viL  146,351.) 

I  am  surprised  that  there  seems  still  so 
much  difference  of  opinion  on  the  pronuncia- 
tion  of  Latin  and  Greek.  Surely,  when  French, 
Italians,  and  Germans  agree  as  to  the  pro- 
nunciation of  the  vowels  a  ("ah  "X  ^  ("eli  "X 
/  (as  iu  '*  oblique  "),  it  is  absurdly  insular  in 
us  to  set  up  Queen  Elisabeth's  Protestant 
prejudices  in  defence  of  an  English  pronun- 
ciation which  is  only  semi-English,  for  Eng- 
lish Jit  is  the  short  of  ** feet,"  u  of  "ease," 
Our  short  ft  in  **  Ann  "  is  somewhat  peculiar, 
differing  slightly  in  quality  from  the  a  in 
**  father,"  but  in  the  inhnite  gradations  of  the 
vowel  scale  this  goes  for  little.  To  my  ear 
Italian  o  in  Roma  is  a  diphthong  —  English 
o  in  "  home  "^French  au  in  "  chaux  "^French 
6  in  "  le  n6tre  "= English  ow  in  **  show,"  t.^,,  6 
of  "not"  followed  oy  and  corabined  with 
iff  of  **  Llwellyn."  Here  then  Italian,  and  to 
some  extent  French,  vary  the  quality  of  a 
vowel  between  long  and  shorty  or  m  lengthen- 
ing add  another  sound,  as  we  do  in  lengthen- 
ing i,  adding  an  a  sound  and  getting  the 
diphthong  a^  as  "  ice"=a?f,  sit,  ute^  &c. 

It  is  probably  impossible  to  say  certainly 
whether  Cicero  pronounced  the  o  in  nobih^ 
aa  the  French  sound  the  o  in  7^06^,  i.€., 
nearly  like  English  aw  in  "  caw/  or  as  the 
Italians  sound  the  0  in  Roma. 

As  alisolute  certainty  is  unattainable^  Li  it 
not  legitimate  to  teach  such  a  pronunciation 
as  shall  be  uniform,  letting  eacii  sign  stand 
for  one  sound  only  ?  Tlius  1  would  pronounce 
the  diphthong  m  in  Ciesar  like  the  rt*_in 
German  Kaiser,  though  it  cannot  be  K^^' 
said  that  at  some  time  latin ists  ^ronQHtuoe^ 
it  like  i\m  e  m/eie. 


450 


NOTES   AND   QUERIES.         [y*  S.  VIL  June  S,  1901. 


U  or  V  perhaps  presents  the  greatest  diffi- 
culty.   Can  any  scholar  say  when  Italian  v 
superseded  an  older  Roman  w  ?  That  the  i  of 
the  first  syllable  of  ailva  is  short  by  nature 
is  proved  by  Hor.,  Od.  I.  23,  1-4  :— 
Vitas  hinnuleo  me  similis  Chloe, 
Quserenti  pavidani  montibus  aviis 
Matrem,  non  sine  vano 
Auraruni,  et  slluse  inetu. 
Now  if  uor  V  is  alwavs  to  be  sounded  as  tt  in 
"  pull "  or  w  in  "  well,"  how  can  slhvce  be  a 
spondee  any  more  than  Mhuc  ? 

As  for  Greek  pronunciation,  apart  from  the 
accentual  marks  I  should  say  that  the  reasons 
for  doubt  are  few.  The  Vowels  must  be 
sounded  as  in  Italian,  with  perhaps  the  ex- 
ception that  (0  may  have  stood  for  the  French 
o  in  noble;  €t  may  have  been =77,  as  the 
pass.  ind.  pres.  second  sing.  rvTrrn  or  tvtttci 
seems  to  indicate;  ot  undoubtedly  was 
sounded  as  at  in  "aisle";  01  as  in  all  lan- 
guages ;  €v  and  rjv  perhaps  =  English  yoo,  as 
in  "  neuter,"  or  as  eiv  in  Ewelme. 

I  think  it  possible  that  if  teachers  began 
early  enough  they  might  get  their  pupils  to 
sound  accented  syllables  with  a  slightly 
higher  musical  intonation  without  stress  or 
loudness.  Failing  that,  I  think  they  should 
be  taught  to  sound  the  accents  as  in  modern 
Greek,  t.e,,  with  additional  stress  or  loudness 
on  the  syllables  marked.  This  latter  method 
has  given  us  St.  Helena  and  Sophia. 

T.  Wilson. 

Harpenden. 

How  can  we  be  sure  what  was  the  "Roman 
fashion"  of  pronouncing  Latin?  Take,  for 
instance,  the  ancient  Roman  town  Reate,  now 
Rieti.  Why  may  we  not  say  that  the  Romans 
pronouncea  the  word  as  English  schoolboys 
used  to  be  taught  to  pronounce  it,  but  that 
modern  Italians,  in  order  to  preserve  the 
sound,  have  been  obliged  to  change  all  the 
vowels  ?  Shekborne. 

Whitgift*s  Hospital,  Croydon  (9^  S.  vi. 
341,  383,  402, 423, 479, 513 ;  vii.  178,  25fs  358).— 
When  Mr.  Arnott  voluntarily  places  himself 
in  the  position  of  a  disputant,  it  hardly  be- 
comes him  to  regret,  or  express  sorrow,  that 
the  person  he  would  call  to  book  does  not 
accept  his  dictum,  lacks  faith  in  the  autho- 
rities he  quotes,  or  demurs  to  his  assertions. 
If  any  one  has  cause  to  express  concern  over 
the  subject,  it  is  myself,  because  Mr.  Arnott 
initiated  the  discussion,  and  now  apparently 
is  unable,  from  some  cause,  to  carry  his  case 
to  a  legitimate  issue.  At  one  of  the  references 
given  it  will  be  found  Mr.  Arnott  expressed 
as  bis  opinion  that  it  was  **  undesirable  that 
the  explanation  on  the  *AclmonitioutoYat\\v 


ment'  should  be  allowed  to  rest  as  if  Uiere 
was  any  real  doubt  with  regard  to  the  author- 
ship." In  this  I  acquies^,  and  gave  him 
facts  and  circumstances  calculated  to  throw  a 
new  light  on  the  matter,  if  not  to  dispel  any 
doubt  in  his  mind  as  to  who  was  the  author 
of  the  *  Admonitions.' 

Now  Mr.  Arnott  contents  himself  with 
futile  regret,  without  any  attempt  to  show 
just  cause  for  his  pain  of  mind,  but  satisfies 
his  argumentative  acumen  by  naming  "  three 
more  authorities."  It  would  not  do  to  enter 
upon  the  question  as  to  what  Mr.  Arnott 
really  means  when  he  uses  the  term  "  autho- 
rities"; too  often  authorities  (so  called)  are 
simply  compilers,  who  take  for  granted  what 
previous  writers  have  set  down,  without  an 
attempt  to  verify  their  assertions. 

I  am  entitled  to  ask,  Has  Mr.  Asnott  taken 
any  steps  to  prove  the  authenticity  of  the 
"  authorities "  he  has  given  %  I  might  also 
ask  if  Mr.  Arnott  has  ever  uen  *  An  Admoni- 
tion to  Parliament'?  Has  he  taken  the 
trouble  to  compare  the  style  of  writing  of 
the  two  *  Admonitions'?  Has  he  read  anv  of 
Whitgif  t's  statements  respecting  them  I  How- 
ever, I  now  propose  to  probe  the  subject  a 
little  deeper  than  Mr.  Arnott  apparently 
has,  with  the  simple  desire  that  those  in- 
terested in  the  matter  may  be  led  to  examine 
for  themselves,  and  thus  set  at  rest  an  Eliza- 
bethan ecclesiastical  point. 

The  'Admonition  to  Parliament'  in  the 
British  Museum  is  indexed  under  T.  Cart- 
wright,  and  is  a  small  12mo  book,  dated  outside 
157^  but  wants  a  title-page.  The  book  consists 
principally  of  two  parts,  the  first  headed  on 
each  page  '  An  Admonition  to  Parliament,'  the 
second  part  being  headed  on  each  page  *A 
Second  Admonition  to  Parliament.'  At  the 
end  of  the  first  part,  and  between  it  and  the 
*  Second  Admonition,'  is  a  page  and  a  half, 
titled  "  To  the  Christian  Reader,"  and  opening 
thus  :  "  1  have  thonghte  good,  in  this  latter 
end  of  our  booke,  for  sundry  considerations, 
to  certify  you  (beloved  brethren)  of  the  reasons 
that  have  moved  us  who  are  the  Authors  of 

these  treatises  to  kepe  backe  our  names ** 

Now  who  is  the  I  which  I  have  italicized! 
It  could  not  be  Field  and  Wilcox.  The  **  we" 
in  the  body  of  the  matter  referred  to  might 
be  explained  by  a  desire  to  confuse  the  reader, 
or  on  the  editorial  basis. 

Between  the  page  and  a  half  quoted  from 
and  the  *  Second  Admonition '  are  four  leaves, 
the  first  being  titled  "To  the  Qodly  Readers, 
Grace  and  Peace  from  Ood,"  <&c.,  and  reading : 
"The  Treatyse  ensuing  (christian  reader)  being 
purposely  meant  as  the  tytle  pretendeth  to bfi. 
\^^^v)\xd^  MmonitioD  to  the  Parliaioen^'Ap 


9-'8.viLJnNB8,i9oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


451 


It  goes  on  to  say,  **It  k  feared  few  will  read 
it,  but  it  will  becritiHeed  by  tfina©  who  do  not 
imd  it";  anfl  thi^  ia  emphaaizod  by  "whereof 
1^  have  riad  too  much  experience  in  the  former 

*  Ad  mun  i  tion  a/  "  No  w  if  a  n  y  d  oub  t  e  x  Is  ted  as 
to  the  tneaninp  of  the  fi  rnt  personal  pronoun, 
and  th^  introauction  of  "  we  "  in  the  liody  of 
the  rea»ons  for  the  absence  of  an  author's 
name,  it  is  clearly  removed  by  the  "we" 
italicized  by  myaelf,  because  the  second 
'Admonition*  here  spoken  of  is  admitted  by 
Mel  AHJfOTT  to  be,  and  unquestionably  was, 
the  pn>duction  of  Car tw right. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  Archbishop  Whitgift*s 
answer  to  *An  Admonition'  (1672,  p.  141), 
from  which  it  apjiears  that  when  ne  had 
ended  the  answer,  a  new  edition  of  the  ^me 
'  AdmonittoQ  *  was  received  h}^  him,  for  he 
writes,  "  After  1  had  endefl  thia  confutation 
of  the' Admonition,'  there  comes  to  my  hande 
a  newe  edition  of  the  same^  wherein  »ome 
things  be  added,  some  detracted  and  some 
altered,  I  thought  good  here  breefly  to  set 
downe  and  examine ,"  Here  we  have  evi- 
dence that  more  than  one  edition  of  ^An 
Admonition '  was  published.  In  the  ^^me 
book,  1572.  under  the  heading  **  An  answer 
to   the   second e   parte  of   the  libel  1    called 

*  An  Admonition  to  Parliament,*"  p.  148, 
iH  the  following :  "  You  complayne  much  of 
unbrotherley  and  uncharitable  entreating  of 
you,  of  removing  you  from  your  offices  and 
places,  &c/*  This  can  only  apply  to  Cart- 
wrighL  In  Whitgift's  *  Defence  of  the 
Answer  to  the  Admonition '  {1574,  p.  3B)  he 
writes : — 

'*  Yau  deny  that  you  fiayej  there  is  no  IftwfijJ  or 
no  ordinary e  cilling  of  Ministers  in  England,  which 
Uatrang;e  to  meet  lor  where  unto  then  tendeth  all 
that  which  ia  wrytten  in  your  book  touching  the 
election  and  calltni?  of  Ministers,  or  that  whioh  is 
wntteii  in  tho  fyrst  ^  Admonttion.'  " 

If  Cartwright  did  not  pen  the  ^rst  *  Admoni- 
tion,'or  was  in  no  way  responsible  for  it,  why 
should  Whitgift  here,  in  hi.i  criticiijm  of  the 
second^  complain  to  Cartwright  of  the  tirsti 
Is  it  not  clear  evidence  of  the  fact  that  Whit- 
gift  was  perfectly  acquainted  with  who  was 
aceountaole  for  all  the  '^  Admonitions  "I 

Again  J  Cartwright  wrote  an  *  Epistle  dedi- 
cated to  the  Church  of  Enj^lancl,'  and  in 
*An  Answer'  to  it  (p,  1),  VVhitgtft  writes, 
*^I  doubto  whether  you  meane  good  faith 
or  no,  when  you  would  make  us  beleeve  that 
you  take  us  for  heathen,  for  sorely  that 
doth  not  appeare  either  by   the  Jlrst  or  2 

*  Admonition,'  or  by  this  your  booke*"  I 
submit  to  the  impartial  reader  that  here 
alone  is  incontrovertible  evidence  that 
^]^twripbt  wrote  or  inspired  a)l  ti|6  '4dmo- 


nitiona* ;  and  to  tell  me  that  certain  ^*  authori- 
ties "  say  the  opposite  is  merely  stamping 
them  as  either  unreliable  or  unin formal 
persons— persons  who  have  not  investigated 
the  matter  thoroughly. 

There  cannot  be  a  shadow  of  doubt  that 
Whitgift  was  kept  well  informed  of  every 
movement  and  action  of  Cartw right's  ;  and 
if  further  proof  of  this  was  wanting,  we  have 
itonp,  807(1574):— 

"But  to  etatiftf^t)  your  demre  that  would  bo  R^a^b' 
know  what  a  Hbell  i%  I  will  tell  you  in  few  wortis, 
an  infiimoua  libell  m  that,  that  ia  written  in  verfte 
or  proao,  fo  ye  infamy  and  slander  of  any  man  to  ye 
which  the  author  dare  not  set  his  name.  Thin  ia  an 
infamous  lib«U  and  it  moat  aptly  afreet h  to  ve  booke 
called  'An  Admonition  to  ye  Parliament*' 

Here  we  have  "a  home  thnist"— no  "stab  in 
the  dark,"  but  an  unmistakable  pointing 
to  Cartwright's  libel  in  publishing  the  first 
'Admonition  to  Parliament/ for  lieotdd  not 
refer  to  the  second^  which  was  known  to  be  by 
da  rtw  right. 
Then  with  respect  to  the  diction  of  both 

*  Admonitions/  the  similarity  ia  so  marked 
that  it  could  hardly  be  doubted  they  were 
inspired  by  the  same  individual  j  and  if  this  is 
not  plain  to  the  casual  reader,  it  was  evidently 
quite  patent  to  the  archbishop*  as  shown  by 
an  extract  from  hin  *  Defense  of  the  Answer 
to  the  Admonition '  (p.  38)  r — 

^*  Bo  the  the  '  Admonitiona'  sa^e  (that  i^  is  acarc^ 
eome  to  the  outwarde  fate  of  a  Church  ryghtly 
reformed),  and  the  ae^^oude  '  Admonition '  aadetn 
(that  the  tmthe  in  thya  Cburche  dothe  in  a  manner 
but  peepe  oute  from  hehynde  the  screeuo)*" 

And  further  on  Whitgift  writes :  *'!  omitte 
to  recite  the  particular  phra.sea  nf  the  fyrste 
^Admonition  and  your  modest  speaches  in 
this  booke." 

More  need  not^  I  opine,  be  produced  to 
satisfy  an  unbiassed  mind,  and  yet  I  cannot 
refrain  from  addinga  q  uotation  f rom Whi  tgif t's 

*  Defense  of  the  Answer  U^  the  Admonition  * 
(1574,  p.  280).  Here  we  have  Cartwright's 
words,  "  that  the  two  Treatises    called   the 

*  Admonition'  were  written  by  diverse  per- 
sons, the  one  not  knowing  the  other's  doings," 
To  which  Archbishop  Whitgift  replies  :— 

**It  cannot  be  truej  for  both  Iht  partoH  have  one 
title,  they  bee  in  one  volumo,  they  w*ef©  ptiuted 
tn  one  letter,  at  one  tyuie  by  one  and  the  same 
prynter,  and  came  abroad e  topethttr,  neyther  were 
they  ever  separated  tiiat  I  knowe  or  f^au  under* 
fitando.  Moreover  this  hewrnyeth  all,  and  oon- 
demneth  you^  the  one  that  hath  no  conscience  in 
wr^-^ting  untrulhe,  that  in    the  begioning  of  the 

*  Admonition'  mention  is  made  of  both  of  theae 
treatises  in  these  word^.  Two  treateyfiea  you  have 
here  ensnying  (beloved  in  Chriftto),  whyche  yee 
must  read,  &e." 

To  m©  it  ia  d«aSi  ItQia  m^  ^x^isosiii'^H^ii^- 


452 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       (9^  s.  vil  jun.  8.  iwi. 


gation^  that  those  who  assert  Cartwright  is 
not  reaponaible  for  *An  Admonition  to  Par- 
liament^ did  not  take  sufRcient  trouble  to 
examine  with  care  the  evidence  I  now 
adduce,  if  they  ever  examined  it  at  alL 

Mr.  AitNOTT  at  the  la^t  reference  names 
the  *  Dictionary  of  National  Biography '  as 
one  of  the  '*  three  more  authorities.  1  am 
tempted  to  ask  if  he  actually  consulted  it  If 
he  did  he  could  not  avoid  noting,  as  I  have^ 
the  extraordinary  manner  in  which  the 
article  tinrler  the  letter  W  is  at  variance 
with»  if  it  does  uot  contradict,  that  under  the 
letter  U,  In  the  first  we  are  informed^  **  Field 
and  Wilcox  were  held  rasponsible  for  it  P  An 
Admonition  to  Parliament "]  by  the  authori' 
ties,  because  thetf  nuide  an  attempt  to  pi'6$eiit  it 
to  Parliafn^nt  '*  (the  italics  are  my  ownX  and 
we  ai-e  ioformed  they  were  committed  to 
Newgate,  7  July,  1572.  It  will  be  observed 
that  they  were  not  charged  with  being  the 
author.  Under  the  latter  letter  it  is  stated 
*Au  Admooitioti  to  Parliament'  "was  the 
work  of  two  clergymen.  Field  and  Wilcox  "  So 
much  for  the  lucidity  of  the  '  Dictionarj^  of 
National  Biography/  Although  1  was  con- 
vincefi  both  *  Admonitions' give  evidence^  in 
style,  manner  of  expreasioti,  and  thouglit,  of 
having  their  birth  in  the  same  person,  yet  I 
have  not  restefl  on  that  alone,  but  have 
offered  evidence  which  it  will,  1  think,  be 
difficult  to  overturn.  Nevertheless  1  am 
open  to  cDi'rection  and  conviction  when  more 
satisfactory  prot)f  i«  adduced. 

Al^FRED  OhaS.    JoKAS. 

Age  of  Kntey  at  Inns  of  Court  (9**  S.  vi. 
107,  195,  278,  333  ;  vii.  17>— It  may  be  beyond 
the  intended  scope  of  the  original  query,  but 
the  following  extracts  from  Sir  Thos.  Llyot's 
*Governour,'  1531  (ed.  H,  H,  S.  Crofts,  1883), 
i^eem  to  touch  on  the  matter  from  a  sliglitly 
different  iK*int  of  view— the  social — and  are 
much  earlier  than  the  quotation  at  the  first 
reference^  which  was  from  1593,  and  about 
Wentworth  ;— 

**  Wherefore  lete  nien  rei^lie  as  thtsy  list,  but,  in 
myne  aptuion,  men  be  wonderfully  disceyued  Dowe 
a  dayefli  (1  dare  ni^t  aayc  with  the  persu&Bioii  of 
auarice,)  that  do  [iiit  their  children  at  the  age  of 
XIUI  or  XV  yorea  to  the  atudie  of  the  1  awes  of  the 
real  me  of  Knglniide  '^  {Lt\,  i.  132), 

**Than  ohUdFeti  at  XllII  or  XV  yercs  olde,  iii 
whiehe  tynie  s^iringeih  fouragi%  set  all  iti  |>leastire, 
and  pleasure  m  in  nothyng  that  is  nat  facile  or 
ele^iint,  lieyng  hmught  lo  the  rno.^t  djfiiculte  ^nd 
grauc  lernyiig  wjiiche  hath  no  thinge  illecebiouse 
iir  delicate  to  tickyLl  thoir  tender  wyCtet)  and  alure 
thuiii  to  fitudi^  (atilea  it  be  hit: re,  whiehe  a  i^ntylL 
wiLte  lytle  ealemethj  the  nioto  fmrt^T  vaioquio^hed 
with  tediou»Jie!^«e,  do  j^uye  thom  to  gamyng  aud 
otfwr  (ah  I  fnot^ht  saye)  iSIm  buaynea&e  oowo  uallud 
paalymm;  oi  ela  it  they  be  in  any  w^»e  th^tv^ 


coastrayned,  they  a^proimndyng  &  piece  tlterof,  u 
if  they  beyng  longe  in  a  derke  dtmiEeon  onelj  dyd 
Rf)  by  the  light  of  a  can  del  I,  than  if  after  XX  or 
XXX  yerea  studie  they  happen  to  come  aniongs 
wyae  tnen^  hering  niatera  commented  of  eonc«ming  a 
pub  I  ike  weale  or  outwarde  affairs  bet  weoe  pricces, 
they  na  lasse  be  astonied  than  if  cotnnjynfc  c^ut  of  t 
dafKe  house  at  uoone  dayos  ihev  were  sodaynly 
atriken  in  the  eyen  with'  a  bri^nt  sonne  betune. 
But  I  fl|H9ke  n&t  this  in  reproche  of  lawi^vtv..... ," 

**  But  to  reaorte  unto  lawyar^,  I  thinky  verily  if 
ehildren  were  bronghte  upi>e  as  I  have  written,  and 
eontinually  wore  retayned  in  the  right  stndie  of 
very  philosophy  until  ihey  pureed  the  age  of  XXI 
yeros,  and  then  aet  to  the  law  e«  of  this  real  me  (beinf 
ones  brought  to  a  more  certayne  and  camtiendiouse 
studio,  and  either  in  pngliBBho,  latine,  or  good 
frenobf  written  in  a  more  clene  and  el«^Ant  Btile} 
undoughtedly  they  ahtdd  become  nten  of  so  exoel^ 
tent  wisedome  that  throughout  all  the  worldt 
flhutde  be  founden  in  no  oomniune  weale  more  DobU 
eounsayloura ,"  (/,r.,  141-3). 

There  is,  of  cour!ie,  no  proof  in  thia,  but  it 
must  have  been  customary  to  put  lads  to  the 
law  in  these  early  days,  or  Elyot  would  not 
have  said  so  much  about  it,  I  wouhl  recom* 
mend  to  your  first  correspondent  a  reading 
of  the  volumes  quoted.  S.  L.  Petty, 

Ulveraion. 

Duke  of  Nokmandy  {Vh^  S,  vii,  329).— 
The  Klwm  of  England  frnni  William  L  to 
Henry  111.  used  the  titles  of  King  of  England 
and  Duke  of  Normandy.  Normandy  was 
invaded  by  Philip,  King  of  Fmnc^,  in  13(l3i 
and  conquered  by  him  tfie  next  year,  ft  was 
formally  resigned  by  Kin^  John  in  1206^  but 
reclaimetl  by  Henry  IIL  in  1223,  Ed  wan!  L 
gave  up  all  claim  to  the  duchy,  and  changed 
the  titles  to  King  of  England,  Lord  of  Ire- 
land, and  Duke  of  Aquicaine,  which  were 
iL^ed  by  hia  mn  Edward  II,  Edward  XU* 
claimecl  the  crown  of  France  ;  the  titles  were 
again  altered  to  King  of  England  and  Frano© 
(the  dukedoms  of  Normandy  and  Aquitaine 
would  merge  in  this  title)^  and  Lord  of 
Ireland,  and  these  were  con  tinned  to 
Henry  VII*  During  the  reigns  from 
Henry  VllL  to  Queen  Elizabeth  the  tiUe 
of  Lord  of  Ireland  ceased,  and  King  and 
Queen  takes  its  place.  The  Stuart  dynast? 
added  Scotland,  \  rom  Ueoi'ge  I,  to  George  III* 
they  were  styled  King  of  Great  Britain, 
France,  and  Ireland,  Duke  of  Brunswick, 
Lunenburg,  ifec,  but  on  I  January,  1801,  the 
title  of  King  of  France  was  dropped, 

John  HADcuFfK, 

Arms*  of  Sl?otland  (9*^  S,  vii,  368),— Sir  J  - 

Balfour  Paul  (Lyon)  8ays,  in  hia  *  Heraldry 

in  Relation  to  Scottish  Hiatory  and  Art^'  thai 

the  enactment  of  1471  was  never  carried  into 

WlSic^\>^  %wd  ihvX  be  know«t  of  lui  inalMaoe  ^ 


9*  S,  VIL  June  8, 1901.]         NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


453 


the  royal  Scottish  arms  eifcher  at  or  after, 
1471  without  the  tressure*  Lyon  thioka  that 
the  traditional  French  origin  of  the  Scottish 
double  treaiiur©  ''  is  very  pretty,  but  it  is  not 
hbtory/'  George  Anous. 

HL  Andrews,  N.B. 

"SeiMMOZiEEL"  (9*^  S,  vL  266,  371  ;  vii,  10, 
130).— The  Berlin  slang  boasts  the  same 
beautiful  word  under  the  form  of  dtr  Sehlu- 
rmiMtL  Low  women  designate  as  such  a 
nian  without  means  or  unwilling  to  be 
liberaL  It  U  not  neceaaary  to  have  recourse 
to  the  German  schltcht  for  the  explanation 
of  ita  first  element,  but  the  word  may  be 
fully  accounted  for  from  the  Hebrew.  It  is 
compounded  out  of  ,*jA^^he  (who),  /o=not 
mtudl  (pron.  nidz6l)=luck  :  ^tOnSi:''  Thus  it 
would  signify  literally  "  who  (has)  no  luck/^ 
Br,  G.  kRUEfiEE, 

Berlin. 

John  Coe  and  Family  (9^*^  S,  vii,  348),— 
A  case  of  Coe  v,  Brond  appears  in  the  Suffolk 
Chancery  Proceed inga  in  tne  time  of  Jamea  I. 
Henry  Ooe  contributed  at  St,  Matthew*©,  Ips- 
wich, to  the  relief  of  the  c^ptiva^  at  Algiers^ 
on  21  October,  1680,  William  and  Charles 
Coe  appear  on  the  Subsidy  lioll  of  West  How, 
Suffolk,  ir*  Charles  L  The  name  of  Coe  will 
be  found  on  the  tombstones  at  the  churches 
of  St  Margaret  Ipswich,  Creetinj?  St.  Fetar, 
and  Hejsett,  all  in  the  county  of  Suffolk, 
^ast  Anglian^  vols.  iv.  vi.,  new  series, 

EvERAKD  Home  Colemak. 

71,  Brecknock  Road, 

"Foulrice"  :  **LouK  Elm":  "Chincheree'' 
(9*^8.  vii. 229, 353). —'*Fo«lrice"  would  be  "foul 
smelling  "  twig  or  shoot,  of  which  "  foul  rush  *' 
would  be  a* very  apt  rendering,  for  the  twigs 
or  shoota  are  very  rush  or  reed  like  in  growtn, 
Loudon  in  his  *  Arboretum  et  Fruticetum 
Britaunicuui,'  ii.  1 010,  calls  it  "  C.  mmjiiinea^ 
L.  The  blood -red 'leaved,  or  common,  dog- 
wood [if^],"  adding  a  number  of  synonj^*ms 
with  their  derivations,  e^ff.,  "  Virga  san^uinea 
is  literally  the  bloody  twig,  alluding  to  the 
colour  of  the  shoots,  though  they  are  not 
nearly  so  red  as  those  of  Corjifis  albaJ^  **Lock 
elm"  is  not  given  by  Loudon  (iii.  1376-7), 
nor  any  other  synonym  ;  but  it  may  have 
been  one  of  the  plants  used  in  witchcraft  to 
oi>en  locks  and  reveal  hidden  treasure  (see 
Dyer,  'Folk-lore  of  PlantVpl,  fi2,  li>6-7).  J 
think  I  have  noticed  a  specimen  during  the 
last  quarter  of  a  eentury  at  the  south  west 
comer  of  Hospital  Britlge,  Twickenham, 
between  the  Han  worth  Road  and  the  ceme- 
tery, Thomas  J,  Jeakes, 

'jfowar  Houaei  New  Hampton, 


"  Rouen  "  and  **  Succedaneum  "  (9^^  S,  vii, 
149, 214, 258, 316),— At  the  third  reference  Mb* 
WiLBON  carries  back  the  date  of  "  rouen  "  to 
1534,  It  is,  however,  of  much  higher  antiquity ; 
for  not  only  di*es  it  appear  with  the  spelling 
**raweyne  in  the  'Promptorium  Parvu- 
lorum*^  of  1440,  as  Me.  Maybew  observed  at 
the  second  referencCj  but  there  is  evidence  in 
the  following  quotation  from  Raine^a  '  English 
Miscellanies  (publications  of  Surtee^  8oc,, 
Ixxatv,  85)  that  it  was  current  in  the  four- 
teenth century  :  ''*  AJlcrmatk In  the  Dur* 

ham  Surveys,  *(i^,  xiv.,  the  Latin  word  for  it 
is  Rewaymtm.  Cf,  [PubL]  Sturt],  S[oc],  xxxii, 
170,  201,  212,  242,"  Hemij/tium  is,  of  course, 
rGt&a}/n(e)  latinized.  Let  me  briefly  advert  to 
the  etymology.  The  derivation  from  Middle 
English  "  row,"  rough,  proposed  in  the  '  En- 
cyelopsedic  Dictionary,*^  is  ridiculous,  Tlie 
woi^  is  identical  with  French  regaiTi,  and, 
like  **  reward,''  has  filtered  into  our  language 
through  a  French  dialect,  w^  for  hard  g  oeing 
common  in  the  north-east  of  France,  Littre 
notes  as  Pi  card  forms  reguin  and  njuaifty 
and  f  mm  Moisy's  *  Glossal  re  Anglo-Norm  and 
I  loiirn  that  revtmin  is  the  Norman  word  for 
our  "rowen" (art  'Revouins'),  The  etymoloKy 
is  discussed  mom  fully,  if  diver,«tely,  in  the 
dictionaries  of  Littre,  Seheler,  and  Hatzfeld, 
the  last  named  being  the  latest  authority. 

In  connexion  w^ith  my  reply  at  the  last 
reference,  it  may  in  teres t|MR,WiL80N  to  learn 
that  the  Old  French  term  for  **ruen  cheese" 
was  /nmtnf/e  de  gaain,  the  primitive  form  of 
(re'^nm  being,  says  Hatzfeld,  gaint^  gmiim 
(with  which  may  be  compared  Ital,  guaim€\ 
while  Scheler  adduces  gain  and  imiin  as  its 
O,  Fr.  representatives.  For  exAmplea  see 
Godefroy,  art,  *Gaain/  F.  Adams, 

*'  Aftermath,"  or  second  mowing,  was  not 
usefi  by  New  England  farmers  in  the  last 
century,  "  Rowen  "  was  their  term,  derived 
doubtless  from  those  eastern  counties  where 
their  forefathers  lived.  Nor  has  "rowen" 
l>een  vet  displaced,         James  D,  Butlee, 

Madison,  VVia, 

Van  deb  Medlen  and  Hi/chtekburg  (9*^ 
S,  vii,  87,  117),— My  best  thanks  are  due  to 
the  correspondent  who  kindly  called  my 
attention  to  Van  der  Meulen's  pictures  at 
Versailles.  A  visit  there  enabled  me  to 
identify  the  subject  of  my  picture,  11, 

St.  GlLEJ^'ft  ChORIII,  NORTllAMrTON  (9*^  S. 
vii  3G7),— "Down  to  1489  the  mayor  and 
burgesses  of  Northampton  met  in  St,  Giles's 
Church,  and  did  their  municipal  business 
there,"  is  true  in  a  sense — a  newspaper  *yai\»j^ 
— ana  the  OiUiUoti^^  mB.i\»  Va»sA.Ss^'''^W!k 


454 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (v^  a.  viljum  8,1901. 


•Kecords  of  the  Borough  of  Northampton,* 
publinhed  in  two  volumes  in  1898  by  omer  of 
the  Corf  K-ration.  In  the  first  vc^lume,  e^littnl 
by  Mr  C.  A.  Markhaiii^  in  a  ti-ajiJicriiyt 
(witli  fcraiishmon  whero  the  tinKinal  in  not 
ill  Knglinh)  of  the  nitmt  predous  of  North- 
am  p  ton' j*  arcliive«,  its  '  Liljer  CuHtumarum/ 
There  are  a  immter  of  oidinaneeH  (by-laws) 
made**att  the  coroon  Heiuble  H  olden  in  the 
Chirche  of  fcseynt  Oilei*  Thabbot,"  at  *"colkK|um 
genale  tent  in  ecclia  iStii  Kgidij;"  or  at  "con- 
gregationem  hi  tarn  in  Ecclia  ptliufc."  Jn  the 
KeeontI  volume  Dr.  Cox  .says  :— 

'*  There  can  be  no  doubt  th^t,  from  about  i^ltKl, 
iftbeti  die  town  waa  tinlArguid  iinij  St.  (iJles  ini:luded 
in  Ihb  Jiew  walU,  ih*  cof/o^fuima  g^ntml^-  or  ron- 
ipvfffUiO  of  tbe  townsmen  fin  Kn^^lish  the  general 
asmmhly  of  tht>  comniomiky)  waa  aummoned  fnmi 
time  to  time,  for  nearly  two  centuriea,  to  hold  ita 

meetioFa  in  the  body  of  tlmt  large  church  Kvery 

male  of  workinj?  age  wo*  expected  lo  be  present  at 
the  town  afifmud^ly.  At  Saudwich,  for  instance,  on 
the  tirst  Mondiiv  in  December,  tho  lovtn  werjeant 
Bounded  the  conmiou  horn  for  a  general  a&scndily, 
and  made  the  following  cry  at  tfie  fourteen  &c<jua- 
tomed  |ilac«fl  *— *  Kven'  "i*n  of  twelve  yearaor  more, 
MO  to  be.  Clenient*^  chureh,  there  our  couinionalty 
hath  need.     Haitte,  haate/" 

Coiitempomneously  with  the  meetings  at 
St.  Oilew.H  Church,  *'njunicifialbuf5jne«H  was 
aW  trausacteH  at  the Ciuihlhall  by  thoniajor, 
baiHtlsj  and  a  few  select  burgeHweH.  The 
common  aKs*emblieH  were  aboliaftefl  by  the 
Adt  of  1489,  which  substituted  for  the  com- 
monalty forty -eight  of  the  most  discreet  and 
b&>4t-difipo«ea  towntsmen.  K< 

J  MAN  LE  Maniqum  (9''''  S.  vii,  3(i7>.— Jean 
le  Maingre,  81  re  de  l^ucioault,  was  son  of 
another  Jean  le  Maingre  (alno  a  diatinj^uisherl 
mariihal  of  France)  by  his  first  wife,  Fbrie 
or  Fleurie  de  Linicres,  Dame  d*Est-ableau  et 
de  la  Bretinii^ro  et  du  Ikeuildoni%  en  Prrjvence, 
daughter  of  Godernar,  Seigneur  de  Liiiicre«, 
He  wai4  born  at  Tour.H  in  1364,  and  made  his 
firrtt  caittpaign  under  Duguosclin.  He  per- 
formed  protFigieH  of  valour  at  the  battle  of 
lioibee,  and  became  a  marshal  at  twenty -five 
years  of  age.  He  waw  made  prisMjner  at 
Agincourt  and  taken  to  England,  where  he 
died  in  142L  Hin  bo<ly  was  interred  at 
Tours  in  the  chapel  of  hia  family,  behind  the 
choir  of  the  church  at  St,  Martin.  In  his 
epitaph  he  wbm  called  ^*  Qrand  Cnnnetable 
de  TLrapereur  et  de  TErapire  de  Constanti- 
nople." His  memoii'H  are  in  existence,  and 
they  tell  ub  that  he  w&n  &  pix^t  and  composed 
*'  rondeaux,  balladea,  et  v i relay n.^  He  mar- 
ried in  1393  Antoinette  de  Iteaufort,  Comtes^ia 
de  Beaufort  et  Vicomtes*ie  de  Turenne,  only 
daughter  of  Rayaiond,  Vicomte  de  Turenne, 
ep  de  M^e  d'Aiiverj;ne.    Bhe  died  m  \^% 


leaving  all  her  estates  to  her  hunband  for  hii 
life.    They  harJ  one  son  Jean,  who  died  before 

his  mother.  CoNBTANCE  Ruksell. 

?^wallow  tieltL 

**  1»A.MINA    AND  TaMINo"  (B***   H.  vil.  367).— 

Two  name*t  which  oecnr  in  the  Terpsichore 
of  Goethe  s  '  Hermann  und  Doit>theA.'  F,  SL 
desires  to  know  who  these  worthier  wepe.  I 
think  he  will  find  that  they  were  the  two 
lovers  who  figure  in  MozarVs  'II  Flauto 
^lagico  '  Patiirk  Maxwell 

Bath. 

Pamtna  and  Tamino&re  the  names  of  two 
loven4  in  Moxart*s  '  Zauberflote,'  which  was 
cc»  I  n  posed  i  n  1 79 1 .  *  H  er man  n  u  nd  i  >orothea ' 
was  written  six  or  seven  j'ean*  later.  Doubt- 
le.-^s  Minna  and  her  family  laughed  at  Her- 
mann because  he  knew  nothing  about  the 
kteiit  operas.  E.  Mein, 

[Many  replied  are  acknowledged.] 

Shakkjipeare  Queries  {{)**'  S.  vii,  388).— 
The  Hugge^itiun  that  to  Delta  Bacon  was 
granted  a  faculty  sanctioning  inspection  of 
Shakespe^ire's  grave  has  no  supfwrt  afforded 
it  in  Nathaniel  Hawthorne^s  account  of  that 
i  monomaniac  (see  '  flecol  lection  a  of  a  Gifted 
Woman'  in  Hawthorne's  'Our  Old  Home'X 
He  repre.sents  that  she  was  very  eonijiderately 
treatetl  by  the  vicar  of  Stnttfoi'd,  and  that 
the  enterprise  in  which  she  engaged  wm 
almndonecl  by  her  because  "  her  own  convic^ 
tions  began  to  falter."  F.  Jarbatt. 

Harn&ta|>le. 

^  De.  Forbes  Watson  (9^  S.  vii.  £47,  354) - 
r  thank  J.  P.  B.  for  his  information,  but  he 
has  confused  two  different  men.  The  Forbe* 
Watson  for  whom  I  inquired  died  before  his 
-  Flowers  and  Gardens '  was  published  in 
iK72.  Since  sending  my  query  I  have  found 
out  all  about  him  iliat  I  want  to  kiiow\  and 
a  new  edition  of  the  -book  will  shortly  lie 
published  by  Mr.  Lane  of  tbe  Boflley  Head, 

H.    N.    ELL-iCOMB£ 

Malt  and  HopSubstitutis  (9^  S.  viL  lj<\ 
21  fj,  296).— The  herb  calltwJ  the  ''ground 
ivy  *'  wsa^  jjeneraliy  used  for  premier ^dng  ale 
before  the  introduction  of  hop«.  In  Swe<len, 
at  least  in  the  fifteenth  century,  hops  neeoi 
not  to  have  been  very  common,  for  at  thai 
time  sweet  gale  ( J/yrJca  gtth)  was  employed 
for  beer,  a^d  so  generally  that  King  Chris- 
topher, in  1440,  confirmed  the  old  law  that 
those  who  collected  this  pJant  before  a 
certain  period,  on  any  common  or  on  another 
pei^on's  land,  should  be  subjected  to  a  fine. 
Another  wild  plant  in  Oermany  called  post 
\  «k,tk4\$^  \^Xa^^^  L^tmi  f(dustre  w«s  in  w 


9^8.viljune8,i9oi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


455 


time^i^  u&eci  for  beer  by  poor  people,  but  it 
occftsioned  violent  IteaflaclieH  (wee  *Lirma3i 
Amcenitat  Acad,/  vol  viii.  270),  Thia  plant 
was  in  Beckmann'a  time  Htill  extensively 
iiaed  in  the  northern  parts  of  Germany  for 
imparting  a  bitter  flavour  to  beer,  althougla, 
owing  to  its  deleterious  nature,  it  is  atrictly 
forbidden  by  the  laws  (see  Beekmann's  *  HisU 
of  Inventions/  Bohn,  1846,  vol  i.  p,  308  and 
vol  ii*  p,  385).  J,  HOLDEN  MacMicHAEL. 
WitubWoti  Park  Road. 

"Callards"  (9'*'  a  vii,  350X— I  have  no 
opportunity  of  conMulting  the  'English 
Dialect  Dictionary/  but  I  pre*iumc  that 
nUlard^  of  which  the  etymology  ia  sought 
by  Q.  v.,  is  an    altered  form    of  coliard^  a 

Elionetic  corruption  of  colewort,  which,  says 
>r*  Murray  U.v.  'UoUard'X  is  dialectal,  and 
d^  current  in  the  United  States,  Aa,  how- 
ever, both  caul  and  coie  exint  in  our  language, 
the  spelling  cailard  h  perhaps  referable  to 
mulwort^  a  hypotheti^l  variant  of  cawktmrt 
(for  which  last  woi-d  *see  the  '  B.KDJ), 

F,  Adams. 
[Id  the  •  E.D.D. '  "  catlarde  "  only  appears  in  the 
pldrsl) 

BuRNHAM    I*AiHltV    (9^    S.    vii.    S67).— A 

branch  of  fchia  family  was  settled  in  West 

Haddon  in  the  seventeenth  century.    There 

are  many  entries  of  the  name  in  the  early 

parish    registers,    but  the  family    long   ago 

died  out,    Thomas  Burn  ham's  name  is  cars' ed 

over  the  south  porch  of  the  church,  and  also 

appears  on  the  third  liell  an  co-churchwarden 

with   Thomas   Parnell   in   1682.     His   grave- 

Mtune  is  in  the  churchyard,  near  the  south 

entrance  to  the  church  ;   I  have  deciphered 

the  inscription  as  follows  :^ 

(Here) 

(lie)Lh  the 

BiKly{of  Thomii*) 

Burnham 

Husband  of  Ann 

Burnham  he  det>arted 

thia  Life  the  B^  of 

October  1694. 

The  register  records  that  "Thomas  Burnham 
ye  husiband  of  Ann  Burnham  was  bury** 
October  10,"  1694,  John  T.  Page, 

West  BaddoD,  Nortbftjnptonshire, 

"BiBYL  OR  Sybil''  (9^^*  S.  vii.  200,  3nX™It 

is  singular  that  in  this  connexion  Sybil  Grey 

of  *  Marmion/  1808,  should  have  been  over* 

looked.   The  inscription  over  the  stone  basin, 

with  its  diamond -spark  ling  water,  la  this  ;— - 

Drink,  weary  pilffrhit,  flriiik,  and  pray 

For  the  kind  soul  of  Sybil  Grey, 

Who  built  this  crofta  a.nd  well. 

See  '  MurmioUt'  ?I.  ]^il^    It  in  intermtdng  to 


nota  that  Lock  hart  C  Life  of  Scott,*  iii,  12, 
efl,  1837),  when  tolling  the  story  of  the 
Flodden  Boniface  who  asked  Scott  for  a 
motto  from  the  poem  to  put  upon  hi^i  .sign- 
boarci,  uses  the  spelling  "  Sibyl.  This  U  the 
interesting  narrative  :— 

''  8<sott  op«ned  the  book  at  the  death  Hoone  of  the 
hero,  fLCid  nifl  eye  waa  immediately  caught  by  the 
'inscription'  in  blan'k  letter— 

Dnnk,  weary  pU(criiHt  driuk,  and  pray 
For  the  kind  «oiil  of  Sibyl  Grey»  ko. 
*  Well,  my  friend/  mid  he.  *  what  more  would  you 
have?  Toti  need  but  atrike  out  one  letter  In  the 
first  of  tht^e  line»,  and  make  your  ]^ainter-man« 
the  neicE  time  he  comes  thi»  way,  print  between 
the  jolly  tankard  and  jrour  own  namej 

Drink,  weary  pilgrim,  dnnk,  and  Fay.' 
i^icott  wa«  deliiEhted  to  tind,  on  his  return.  ihaL  this 
aiiKgeation  had  been  adopted,  a^nd  for  aught  i  know 
the  roraantio  legend  may  itill  be  visible, 

Thomas  Bayne. 
In  *  Marmion  *  are  the  lines  :— 

Drink,  weary  inlerim,  dnnk,  and  pray 
For  the  kind  soul  of  Sybil  Grey. 

And  there  is  always  the  same  spelling  of 
the  name  in  the  poem.  But  when  Scott 
is  referring  to  the  propheteHs  he  spells  the 
name  otherwise  :  '*The  task  of  the  sibyl  was 
accomplished,  or  her  wool  was  expended" 
C  Guy  Mannering,*  chap,  iv.).    E,  Y aedley, 

[A  writer  with  a  KC>od  classical  educationi«uch 
as  Lock  hart  or  George  Eliot,  will  probably  Bpell 
"  Sibyl ";  one  who  knows  little  La  tin,  or  in  so  casual 
about  it  aa  Scott*  ^'Hybil,'^] 

TfiAN8VAAL  Dutch  (9^^  S,  vii.  387).— The 
Daily  Mail  had  a  list  of  fifty -five  such 
words  soon  after  the  beginning  of  the  Boer 
war.  This  I  preserved,  but  failed  to  affix  the 
date.  J^  HOLDEK  MauMichakl, 

Ralegh*s  Signatuee  (9^''  S.  viL  7, 158^191). 
—The  nephew  and  namesake  of  Sir  Halter 
was  Dean  of  Wells,  and  chaplain  in  ordinary 
to  Charles  L  Hia  sermons  were  published 
in  1679,  thirtythre©  years  after  his  rauixier. 
The  headline  is  '  Reliquiae  lialeighanae.'  The 
writer  of  the  prefa<^  says  :— 

'*  He  was  second  son  of  8ir  Carew  EaleiKh,  a 
Gentleman  of  an  ancient  family  in  Ueyoutthire ; 
descended,  a*  appear*  by  a  Goneology  i**fj  I  have 
In  my  handa.  from  John  de  Eateigh^  a  great  man  in 
the  time  of  William  the  Conciuerorj  who  Knighted 
him  in  the  ^  year  of  hia  Reign-" 

Richard  H.  Thoenton, 

Portland,  Oregon, 

County    Abbeys   (9**    S,  vii.  327),  — The 
Saint    Osies    mentioned    in    this    <^uery    is 
St.  Osyth's   Priory,  Essex-     The  vdlage  of 
St.  0,^yth,  its  venecabU  d\iiT<a\\,  \Mi\xix^»fa;ofe 
agpect^  fine  gatjdao^i^  ^kai4  vuviaa.  \5i.^5si'i&  ^wsr^ 


456 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.       [«*  s.  vii.  3m*  s.  i«l 


grounds,  form  the  one  archaeological  excursion 
for  the  Clacton  trippers.  The  principal  work 
relating  to  the  pnory  is  "Some  Account  of 

St.    Osyth's    Priory,  £ssex, compiled  by 

John  Watney,  Jun.,  F.S  A."  This  was 
privately  printed  in  1871,  but  can  be  seen 
in  public  libraries.  Mr.  C.  R.  B.  Barrett's 
'St.  Osyth'  was  published  by  Lawrence  & 
Bullen  in  1893,  price  3d.  It  is  well  written 
and  fully  illustrated.  I.  C.  Gould. 

Carlyle  on  "mostly  fools"  (9^**  S.  vii. 
108,  359).— With  regard  to  Carlyle's  dictum, 
I  find  in  the  October  number  of  the  iVcw 
Monthly  Magazine^  1832,  the  following,  under 
the  heading  of  *  Hints  to  Physicians '  :— 

"  The  great  majority  of  mankind  are  fools— that 
large  portion  you  are  to  live  by  ;  therefore  mystify 
your  patients.  When  you  talk  to  them  let  it  be  in 
King  Cambyses'  vein.  The  ears  of  the  million  are 
easily  captivated  ;  when  once  their  senses  are  con- 
founded, they  have  naturally  a  religious  veneration 
for  everything  they  do  not  understand.  In  brief,  in 
all  your  dealings  with  men,  remember  that  you 
have  to  do  with  folks  who  are  *8emel  et  simul 
insanibiles  omnes.' " 

Written,  of  course,  anterior  to  Carlyle's 
remark,  but  worthv  of  that  cynic,  who 
appears  somewhat  of  a  plagiarist. 

R.  Hardstaff. 

Cannot  this  saying  receive  its  quietus  from 
*  N.  k  Q.'  ?  To  those  who  are  grateful  for  the 
wit  and  humour  of  Carlyle  it  is  annoying  to 
find  so  much  attention  paid  to  one  foolish 
remark.  A  fool  is  one  whose  intellect  is 
below  the  average,  and  people  can  no  more 
bo  "  mostly  fools    than  mostly  tall. 

J.  J.  F. 

Links  on  a  Skull  (9**^  S.  vii.  348).— The 
authorship  of  this  poem  has  received  more 
than  usual  attention  in  these  pages :  see 
2»^  S.  vii.  359,  x.  459  ;  4"»  S.  x.  60  :  1^  S.  vi. 
469,  vii.  14,  xii.  481  ;  8"*  S.  i.  96,  li.  193.  It 
seems  to  be  claimed  by  a  Mrs.  Niven  and  bv 
William  Wrightson,  and  has  appeared  at  full 
in  many  anthologies  and  in  '  N.  &  Q.' 

W.  C.  B. 

Lady  Purbeck  and  her  Son  (9^**  S.  vii. 
389).— Lady  Purbeck  was  Frances,  daughter 
of  the  celebrated  Chief  Justice  Sir  Edward 
Coke  by  his  second  wife  Elizabeth,  daughter 
of  Thomas,  Earl  of  Exeter.  She  married 
first  Sir  John  Villiers  (brother  of  George. 
Duke  of  Buckingham),  who  was  createa 
Viscount  Purbeck.  She  eloped  from  him  in 
1621  with  Sir  Robert  Howard,  K.B.,  fifth  son 
of  Thomas,  Earl  of  Norfolk  ;  assumed  the 


Robert  Wright  She  was  sentenced  (Arch- 
bishop Laud  passing  the  sentence)  to  do 
penance  in  a  white  sheet  at  the  Savoy 
Church,  but  evaded  this  punishment  by  con- 
cealing herself.  Her  son  Robert  married 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Danvers, 
and  took  the  name  of  Danvers.  Their  son 
Robert  claimed  the  earldom  of  Buckingham, 
but  the  House  of  Lords  decided  against  him 
upon  the  ground  of  his  father's  illegitimacy. 
LmXy  Purbeck  died  in  1657.  The  last  of  her 
male  descendants  died  in  1774  without  issue. 
Constance  Russell. 
Swallowfield,  Reading. 

*  Tapping"  and  "Tipping"  (9^*»  S.  vii.  105, 
19 J,  337). 

1 1  June,  1829.—"  Dined  at  Power's,  and  oflF  again 
to  the  Charter  House  in  the  evening,  to  deliver  up 
our  young  Carthusian  into  the  hands  of  the  old 
njiiiron.  Sent  for  Sidney  Smith's  son,  the  only  boy 
whrjse  father  I  thought  1  knew,  to  introdnce  Tom 
to  him.  Brought  with  him  a  son  of  Sir  Jamet 
Mojitgomery,  who  is  also  on  the  foundation,  while 
tht  matron  sent  for  the  boy  that  was  to  be  Ton's 
mo  111  tor.  After  talking  to  them  a  little,  ga^-e 
Wiriith  a  sovereign  and  a  naif  to  divide  between  the 
throe." 

I'J  June.—**  Dined  Fielding^s  :  no  one  but  Lord 
Auckland.  In  telling  Lady  Elizabeth  about  the 
eocene  at  the  Charter  House  last  night,  mentioned 
a  <  -onversation  I  had  once,  on  the  snbject  of  tipping, 

\^ith    Lord    Holland *I   remember  once    (said 

J^ord  Holland)  *  refusing  a  pound  which  a  man  whom 
I  used  sometimes  to  go  to  see  at  Windsor  offered 
nic  :  but  the  man,  thinking  that  I  had  only  refused 
it  I  because  the  sum  was  so  small,  offered  me  five 
iKjunds,  and.  egad,  that  I  couldn't  withstand.'"- 
'  Diary  of  Tnomas  Moore,*  edited  by  Lord  John 
Ruissell. 

J.  Lkynk. 

DubUn. 

' '  According  to  common  report,  the  waiters  at  the 
Waldorf -Astoria  Hotel,  which  is  a  daily  rendezvooi 
r>f  brokers  after  the  official  closing  of  businen, 
refreive  valuable  'tips'  with  regard  to  the  stock 
tiiarkets  in  lieu  of  fees.  Mr.  Oscar  Tscherkey,  the 
maUrt  (Thdtelf  has  admitted  that  extensive  hand 
fhh  purchases  of  stocks  have  been  made  by  waiters, 
»ihi  that  one  of  them,  bvan  investment  in  Atchison 
R^ulroad  shares,  recently  netted  55,000  doU.  in  foar 
hours.  He  was  similarlv  fortunate  with  regard  to 
the  shares  of  the  Steel  Corporation.  Tscherkey 
UAA  an  interviewer  that  speculation  in  marKint 
is  interdicted,  but  waiters  are  allowed  to  bay 
outright."— Dai/y  Oraphie,  14  May,  p.  10,  col.  3. 

Thomas  J.  Jeakk. 

Troubadour  and  Daisy  (9"»  S.  vii.  389).— 
Daisies  are  mentioned  in  the  troabadoar 
romance  'Aucassin  and  Nicolete'  {circa  temp. 
Louis  VIL?):- 

''  Et  les  ilors  des  margerites  qu'ele  roDi>oit  as 
or  lex  de  ses  pi^,  qui  li  gissoient  aor  le  meaiuase  da 
liUi  par  deseure,  estoient  droitaa  noires  aven 


name  of  Wright,  and  gave  birth  privately  at 

Somerset  House  in  1624  to  a  hotv,  ^\\o  "n^a  \  \;^^^^\,  ^,^  ^jkdlW^  tant  par  estoit  bUnoela  bms- 
baptized  at  Cripplegate  undor  tt\^  iv«AXiftoi\vrtx3k»\»r 


9"»  8.  VIL  June  8. 1901]  NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


457 


Thas  translated  by  the  Rov.  F.  W.  Bourdillon  : 

"  And  the  daisy  blossoms  which  ah©  broke  off 
with  tbe  toes  of  her  feet,  which  lay  fallen  over  on 
the  bend  of  her  footj  were  right  bkck  agninst  her 
feet  and  her  legs,  bo  very  whit«  was  the  maiden." 

Mr.  Graham  R.  TomMon,  in  his  *  Ballade  of 
Nic€let«/  alludes  to  this  :— 

And  dainty  dais  res,  dark  beside 
I'he  fair  white  feet  of  Nicole te. 

Jonathan  Bouchier. 

Would  the  courtly  troubadour  look  so  low 
as  the  humble,  ncentlesa  daisy,  if  even, as  the 
&e6nt-ed  violet?  The  rose  and  the  lily  would 
o!  course  be  in  his  line  of  vision  ;  and  the 
laurel,  the  myrtle,  and  the  orange, 

Thomas  J.  Jeakjis. 

CocKABB  OF  House  of  Saxony  (9***  S,  vii. 
]  49).  —  Your  correspondent  Cyclops  ask^. 
What  is  the  colour  of  the  cockade  of  the 
House  of  Saxony  ]  The  answer  is  contained 
in  the  following  words,  which  I  take  from 
that  monumental  work  by  the  late  Dr.  John 
Woodward,  'Heraldry,  English  and  Foreign' 
(necond  edition,  1696),  vol.  ii,  p.  376  : — 

*^The  coek^ee  in  u&e  by  those  in  State  employ- 
ment in  Germany  are  composed  of  a  circular  centre 
with  one  or  more  external  ringfs— the  principal  are 
as  follow,  bepnnini;  with  the  central  disc^,.,„ 
Setxony:  White,  green,  white." 

But  whilst  I  am  on  the  subject  of  the  Saxony 
cockade  may  I  crave  the  Eaitor*s  permission 
to  enlarge  a  little  upon  cockades  in  general 
and  their  kindred  subject,  liveries,  as  ill  us- 
t rated  by  Dr.  Woodward  ? 

It  is  true  that  the  subject  has  b^n  clLs- 
cussed  from  time  to  time^  and  at  some  length, 
in  the  pagea  of  *  N.  Je  Q.';  and,  if  I  remember 
rightly,  by  myself  too.  But  this  was  at  a 
periofl  prior  to  the  appcjarance  of  Dr  Wood- 
ward's great  work,  and  nowhere  in  that  work 
does  he  write  better  or  more  trenchantly  than 
on  thi«  same  subject  Moreover,  Dr.  Wood- 
ward's volumes  are  expensive,  and,  maybe, 
not  within  the  reach  of  every  reader  of 
'  N,  &  Q.' ;  and  it  is  surely  convenient  that  all 
that  can  fairly  be  said  on  the  subject  should 
be  brought  tr>gether  within  a  small  compass. 
I  would  refer  your  readers  to  vol.  ii.  chap,  xii,, 
from  which  I  take  the  following  lines  ;— 

*Mn  the  Middle  Ages  it  wafl  customary  for  the 
kinga  and  great  nobles  to  die  tribute  rqhes  oq  days 
of  lije&t  ceremony  to  the  nobles  of  their  court,  and 
to  rheir  sf^jecml  attendants* 

"The  robes  thus*  delivered  acquired  the  name  of 
livrtkM,  ihnd  were  often  of  the  siiecial  colours  affected 
by  the  donors ;  these  were  not  alwaya  identical  with 
the  tinctures  of  their  iirm-ri  tl  hcaringj?*  Thua  tho 
livery-colours  of  the  I'-  '  -  riita,  before  the  divi- 
8ion,'are  said  to  have  been  scarlet  and  white,  those  , 
of  the  House  of  York  were  blue  and  murrey.  The  i 
LMicastrian  princes  favoured  white  aod  blue ;  the 


TudoFB  green  and  white.  In  later  times  the  Stuart 
livery,  fike  the  pregent  Royal  livery,  was  scarlet 
and  M^ld^and  in  both  casofs  were  the  colours  derived 
'  from  their  arms,  Louis  Philippe,  King  of  the  French, 
uaed  the  aame;  under  the  Empire  the  Imperial 
liveries  woro  of  green  and  gold. 

'*  Anciently  liveries  were  often  signa  of  factioni, 
and  when  thtsy  were  discontinued  in  their  original 

form,  a  atmrf  waa  aubstituted,. 

"  Later  the  use  of  Itveriea  was  confined  to  ser?^itors 
and  dependants  ;  hut  even  as  late  as  the  aeventeenth 
century  it  was  a  eomniun  practice  for  gentlemen  of 
good  birth  and  estate  to  accept  and  wear,  and  even 
to  assume  without  eolicitation  ufjon  atate  occasions, 
the  livery  of  an  influential  kinaman  or  neighbour  in 
testimony  of  respect.* 

"M  the  present  day  the  use  of  liveries  is  regu- 
lated by  custom,  and  by  custom  alone  ;  but  the 
general  nae  both  at  home  and  abroad  is  to  make 
them  have  some  relation  to  the  armorial  bearings 

of  the  wearer. 

"  In  England  the  use  has  been  stated  over  and 
over  again  in  heraldic  works,  and  especially  in  our 
uaeful  i»eriodical  Notfn  and  Qucriej*^  and  is  briefly 
as  follow  a  :  The  colours  uaed  ahould  depend  on  the 
tinctures  of  the  arras.  Of  these  the  two  principal 
usually  appear  in  the  wreath  which  supports  the 
crest.  The  tincture  of  the  Held  determines  the 
colour  of  the  coat,  subject  to  needful  modification, 
while  that  of  the  principal  charge  sin»ilarly  decides 
the  colour  of  the  facings  and  linings.  Thus  a 
person  bearing  the  arms  Azure,  a  cross  a  recent, 
would  also  probably  use  a  livery  of   blue,  with 

si  1  Vfl  r  lace,  hut  tons ,  and  f  aci  ngs 

**  When  either  gold  or  scarlet  appear  as  the  field, 
the  former  ia  modi  tied  into  a  darkish  drab,  and  the 

latter  into  marone  or  claret 

*' Another  matter- H... which  has  often  occasioned 
serious   disputattona    and    heart- bumings    is    the 
*  right*  to  put  a  cockade  in  a  servaut^s  hat.     Here 
again,  as  in  the  case  of  iiverifes,  there  is,  and  can 
be,  no  <|uedtion  of  legal  right. 

/'The  cockade  originated  simply  in  the  knot  of 
ribbons,  or  strings,  by  which  the  broad  flaps  of  the 
seventeenth-century  round  bat  were  *  cooked,'  or 
drawn  up  to  the  brim  in  fine  weather,  and  thus 
originated  the  tliree-comered  hat,  as  well  as  the 
cocked  hat  of  later  times. 

"  There  was  nothing  ai»ecially  military  about  the 
usage,  as  the  ignorant  assert. 

"The  same  atrings  survive  in  the  loops  of  the 
hats  of  bisliojxs^  and  other  ecclesiastical  digtiitaries, 
in  Great  Britain  ;  in  the  strings  of  the  hat*i  worn 
by  French  ^uMv  and  Spanish  and  Italian  jxi^i?*^,?  ■ 
and  in  the  corfla  which  are  atill  seen  on  the  hala  of 
some  livery  servants  !    However,  it  naturally  be- 
came the  cuBtuni  for  military  men  to  *cock'  their 
hats   with  the  livery  colour  of    the  prince  they 
served,   and  as   the    Hanoverian    colour   was  the 
convenient  one  of  black,  the  ^ black  cockade'  he- 
came  associated  in  the  minda  of  the  people  with 
military  uniform. . .... 

"  When  the  old  use  of  the  strings  was  forgotten, 
the  knot  in  the  form  of  a  rosette  of  ribbon  sur- 
vived, just  as  did  the  buttons  on  the  baeka  of  our 
coats,  which  were  intended  to  fasten  back  the 
flaps  in  riding  or  marching.  (Our  right  to  use  the^e, 
wJiatever  our  station,  ha«  not  yet  been  called  in 
quefltion !) 


458 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9-8.viljohb8,mol 


"The  use  of  the  cockade  bj^  their  livery  servants 
has  been  supposed  to  be  limited  to  officers  in  the 
army  and  navy«  militia  and  volunteers ;  to  members 
of  the  Royal  Household,  and  to  those  («.(/.,  Deputy- 
Lieutenants)  who  hold  the  Sovereign's  Commission. 
But  this  by  custom,  and  by  custom  only.  To  be 
consistent  those  who  insist  on  the  use  of  cockades 
as  a  matter  of  right  and  privilege  should  wear  them 
themselves 

"The  cockade  without  the  stiff  projecting  comb 
at  the  top  is  often  used  by  the  servants  of  naval 
officers;  the  distinction  is  a  modem  invention  of 
the  tailors^  &c.  The  stiff  leather  cockades  pro- 
babljr  originated  in  the  water-proof  coverings  of 
the  silken  ones. 

"These  are  mere  matters  of  modem  custom,  and 
only  the  *  ignorant  and  foolish'  exalt  them  into 
matters  of  right!  No  amount  of  assertion  can 
make  them  so  in  reality  !" 

J.  S.  Udal. 

Antigua,  W.I. 


Akbuthnott  (9*^**  S.  vii.  368).— The  earliest 
known  form  of  this  word  is  Aberbothennothe, 
and  it  appears  to  be  so  writt-en  in  a  decree 
of  the  Synod  of  Perth  in  1202  in  a  dispute 
about  the  church  lands  of  Arbuthnot.  In 
course  of  time  this  gradually  changed  to 
Aberbuthenot,  Arburthnott,  Ardburthnot, 
Arbuthnett,  until  there  was  evolved  the  pre- 
sent form  of  Arbuthnot.  See  *  The  Retours ' 
and  Martinets  '  Divi.'  In  1632  the  name  of 
Sir  Robert  of  that  ilk  is  spelt  with  both  one 
and  two  ^'s.  Subsequently  in  1656  his  son,  as  a 
viscount,  has  his  name  spelt  Arbuthnet,  and 
the  next  holder  of  the  title  likewise.  The 
particular  spelling  of  the  name  is  a  pure 
matter  of  fancy,  as  is  that  of  the  Kerrs  of 
Lothian  and  the  Kers  of  Roxburghe,  or  the 
ducal  Argyll  and  the  county  Argyle.  As  to 
the  derivation  of  the  word,  with  "  Aber  "  we 
are  all  familiar.  "Buthnot"  is  not  clear,  par- 
ticularly as  there  is  no  stream  there  of  that 
name  now.  It  may  have  been  lost  a  non 
utendo.  There  is  no  record,  as  there  is  no 
tradition,  to  tell  us.  J.  L.  Anderson. 

Edinburgh. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  originally  there 
was  but  one  t.  The  name,  of  course,  is 
territorial.  In  the  twelftli  century  it  was 
spelt  Abirbothennothe=Gael.  abhir-bothan- 
neitliey  "confluence  at  the  booth  of  Neitho's 
stream."  In  1355  Philip  de  Abirbothnot 
owned  the  lands  of  Abirbwthnot^the  two 
spellings  being  in  one  deed.  Thirty  years 
later  the  thanage  of  Aberbuthnot  was  in  the 
hands  of  the  Earl  of  Sutherland.  About 
the  time  of  the  Reformation  a  member  of 
the  principal  family  wrote  a  history  of  it, 
entitled  *Origines  et  Incrementi  Arbuth- 
noticse  Familiae  Descriptio  Historica.'  There 
are  other  proofs  that  of  old  time  one  t  only 
was  uaedf  and  it  may  be  taken  l\\«^V*  V\v^  li^m^^ 


is  more  correct  without  the  excresoent  f  of 
later  use.        Walter  M.  Gbajsam  Easton. 

This  family  and  place  name  occurs  in  many 
forms  in  early  documents,  as  Aberbuthnocht, 
Abirbuthnot,  Arbuthnat  -  net  -  not,  and  as 
frequently  with  the  double  f,  so  the  modern 
form  of  spelling  with  one  t  at  the  end  is 
probably  as  correct  as  the  modern  form  with 
two  t's.  J.  G.  Wallace-James. 

Haddington. 

Authors  of  Quotations  Wanted  (9^  S. 
vii.  369).— 

I  saw  a  Judas,  &c 

The  lines,  as  given,  suffer  from  wantonly  intro- 
duced words  which  can  be  eliminated.  Mr.  Willa 
clearly  took  them  from  Hazlitt.  They  occur  in 
prose  in  a  letter  or  essay— I  think  a  letter.  He 
says  of  some  picture  that  the  oonventioual  Judai 
is  wrong ;  then  practically  as  follows :  **  I  saw  a 
Judas  once,  he  was  eating  in  a  hotel ;  a  regular- 
featured  man,  with  delicacy  of  feature,  a  small 
mouth  and  clear  blue  eyes!"  The  words  were 
quoted  in  an  Academy  article  on  Hazlitt  about  Ust 
November  or  December.  C.  S.  Oaklet. 

(9"»S.  vii.  388.) 
*Tis  might  half  slurab*ring  on  its  own  right  arm. 

Keats,  •  Sleep  and  Poetry,*  L  237. 
This  is  said  of  poesy.  C.  C.  B. 


^uuUxxuumn. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  &c. 
Germctn  Book-plates,     By  Karl  Eroich,  Count  za. 
Leiningen-W  esterburg.  Translated  by  G.  Ravens- 
croft  Dennis.    (Bell  &  Sons.) 
In  England,  as  in  Germanv,  the  Count  of  Leiningeo- 
Westerburg,  a  member  of  a  prinoelv  hooae  closely 
connected  with  our  royal  line,  has  been  known  as 
an  indefatigable  collector  of  ex-fibrU  and  as  an 
authority  on  heraldic  subjects  generally.     There 
are  few  who  have  been  connected  with  the  study  of 
book-plates  who  have  not  had  proof  of  his  erudition 
and  been  the  recipients  of  his  generously  imparted 
knowledge.    His  latest  contribution  to  the  subject 
he  loves  consists  of  a  history  of  German  and  Austrian 
ex-libris^  which  serves  as  a  companion  volume  to 
the  series  of  works  on  English.  French,  and  Ame- 
rican book-plates  which  have  been  iaaued  by  tbe 
same  publishers.   This  work  is  the  largest,  the  most 
ambitious,  and  in  many  respects  the  beet  of  the 
series.    Originally  begun  by  Dr.  H.  PaUmaun,  of 
Munich,  who  through  stress  of  other  work  found 
himself  compelled  to  suspend  his  labours,  it  hss 
been  taken  m  hand  and  completed  by  the  Coont, 
who  fortunately  has  been  able,  without  soing  Hx 
outside  his   own   collection ~ which  nuroMti  tan 
thousand  German  plates  out  of  a  supposed  toCal  of 
eleven  thousand,  apart  from  thoeeof  other  oouatriw 
—to   carry   it   to  completion.     In   Germany  the 
practice  of  employing  Dook-plates  seems  to  have 
begun,    and   the   most    ambitious   and  elabofate 
)>lates   in    existence   are   of   QerniMi  orinn.    In 
Germany  also   the  observance  of  herakSe  nhi 
\\i'M&  \)«Kici  w^TVL^ulous,  sod  ths  wock  faefen  s^ 


9»8.viLJnN«8.i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


459 


apart  from  its  other  claims,  furnishes  the  student 
with  a  guide  to  the  differences  between  English  and 
German  heraldnr.  In  the  main  these  are  small.  In 
France,  whence  heraldry  is  supposed  to  have  sprung, 
its  funaamental  laws  have  or  lat«  been  neglected. 
In  England  and  Germany  the  beauty  of  heraldic 
representation  had  for  a  time  declined,  but  in  both 
countries  the  last  quarter  of  a  century  has  wit- 
nessed a  return  to  earlier  styles.  Among  the  points 
in  which  the  heraldry  of  the  two  countries  differs 
it  will  serve  to  cite  one.  In  Germany  the  logical  rule 
is  observed  that  a  crest  cannot  exist  alone,  and 
must  not  be  represented  without  the  helmet  and 
lambrequin.  It  is,  indeed,  supposed  to  be  screwed 
t  o  the  helmet,  as  in  practice  was  the  case.  It  is 
the  exclusive  custom  of  England,  on  the  other 
hand,  to  place  the  crest,  "  with  wreath,  directly  on 
t^e  shield,  or  even  floating  in  the  air  above  it." 
More  than  two  hundred  plates,  many  of  them  of 
highest  interest  and  rarity,  and  covering  the  period 
between  the  fifteenth  and  twentieth  centuries,  are 
ffiven  in  the  volume.  8ome  of  these  are  in  colours. 
Among  the  designers  whose  works  are  reproduced 
are  artists  such  as  Albrecht  DUrer,  Hans  Holbein, 
Lucas  Cranach,  Hans  Burgkmair,  and  Hans  Baldung 
Griin.  Our  author  speaks  of  the  earliest  ex-librvf 
as  a  mark  of  possession  being  in  the  British  Museum 
and  being  some  3,300  years  old— a  sufficiently  re- 
spectoble  antiquity.  It  is  a  light  blue  piece  of 
pottery,  with  an  inscription  in  dark  blue  showing 
that  it  belonged  to  the  library  of  Amenophis  III. 
about  1400  B.C.  A  full  bibliography,  a  subject  index, 
and  much  information  of  interest  to  students  and 
collectors  are  included  in  a  book  the  appeal  of 
which  will  meet  with  a  ready  resi>onse  from  those 
for  whom  it  is  intended. 

ne  Alfred  Jewel :  an  IlistwnccJ  Eiiftay,    By  John 

Earle,  M.A.  (Oxford,  Clarendon  Press.) 
KsowLKDGE  concerning  the  Alfred  Jewel  is  not  a 
general  possession.  Since  its  discovery  in  1693,  and 
Its  subsequent  lodgment  in  the  Ashmolean  Museum, 
one  of  the  treasures  of  which  it  is,  this  gem  has 
been  the  subject  of  much  discussion  among  archaeo- 
logists, and  its  origin  and  significance  have  con- 
stituted a  crux.  During  fifty  years'  study  Prof. 
Earle,  who  has  been  in  the  habit  of  lecturing  ui)on 
it,  has  contemplated  it  with  increasing  wonder  and 
curioeity.  The  result  of  his  conclusions  concerning 
it  he  gives  in  a  handsome  and  most  scholarly 
volume,  issued,  with  numerous  and  excellent  illus- 
trations, from  the  Clarendon  Press.  A  difficult 
volume  is  it  upon  which  to  pass  an  opinion.  A 
mere  account  of  the  jewel  itself,  its  discovery,  and 
the  speculations  to  which  it  has  given  rise  cannot 
be  furnished  within  a  reasonable  compass.  In  con- 
futing the  views  of  his  predecessors,  and  supplying 
his  own  interpretation.  Prof.  Earle  explores  many 
fields,  archaeological  and  philolosical ;  and  the  con- 
clusions at  which  he  arrives  will  be  authoritative 
only  to  those  who  can  follow  closely  a  skilfully  woven 
argument  and  can  appreciate  the  firmly  held  balance 
of  probabilities.  In  order  to  say  anything  at  all  in 
the  space  at  our  disposal,  we  must  assume  on  the 
part  of  the  reader  some  knowledge  of  a  jewel  which, 
as  Prof.  Earle  indicates,  would  cast  lustre  u)K)n 
any  collection.  His  first  conclusion  is  that  the 
epigraph  or  legend  round  the  sloping  sides,  which 
we  cannot  attem))t  to  reproduce,  runs  **Aelfred 
mec  heht  gewyrean  "  ("  Al/red  me  ordered  make  "), 
and  refers  to  our  royal  Alfred,  not  to  some  other 
beftrer  of  the  name ;  that  the  oeautifnl  workman- 


ship is  not  Byzantine  or  further  Elast,  but  a  product 
of  these  islands ;  and  that  the  work  is  not,  as  has 
been  supposed,  an  amulet,  a  pendant  to  a  collar  of 
state,  the  top  or  handle  of  a  stylus,  a  decorated 
umbilicus,  a  military  standard,  the  tip  of  a  sceptre, 
or  (as  Bishop  Clifford  conceived)  the  costly  handle 
of  a  pointing  stave  or  barAd^ts  carUorum^  but  a  jewel 
from  the  kingly  helmet  or  cynehelm  of  Alfred.  Its 
discovery  near  the  Isle  of  Athelney  and  its  preser- 
vation in  Fairfield  House  give  rise  to  the  theory 
that  the  jewel  was  buried  by  Alfred  in  the  period 
of  his  greatest  straits  from  Dane  and  Welsnman, 
and  that,  through  the  obliteration  of  markings  or 
other  causes,  it  was  not  recovered  by  the  monarch 
or  again  seen  until  it  was  found  in  1693.  The  vsdue 
of  these  and  other  conjectures  must  be  decided  by 
those  competent  to  form  an  opinion.  We  can  but 
express  our  admiration  for  the  erudition  displayed 
not  only  in  the  conduct  of  the  main  argument,  but 
in  dealing  with  separate  portions.  Take,  for  in- 
stance, the  disquisition  on  *The  Boar's  Head'  in 
chap,  vi.,  an  apparent  boar's  head  which  is,  as  it 
seems  to  us,  distinctly  wrought  into  the  composition 
of  the  work,  and  the  illustrations  from  early  litera- 
ture, notably  from  'Beowulf,'  of  its  significance. 
In  the  explanation  of  the  symbolism  of  the  entire 
gem  Prof.  E&tIq  shows  much  ingenuity,  though  we 
are  unable  to  pronounce  an  opinion  upon  his  reading. 
Very  interesting  is  the  historical  treatment.  Li 
short,  in  whatever  light  it  is  regarded,  the  work  is 
calculated  to  delight  the  soul  of  the  antiquary. 
The  illustrations  to  the  volume,  some  of  them  m 
gold  and  colours,  have  much  beauty  and  interest, 
and  a  folded  map  of  Athelney  will  be  of  service  to 
the  student. 

In  the  F<yrtniyhtly  Mr.  Arthur  Symons  descends 
into  the  fray  between  Mr.  Churton  Collins  and  the 
**  English  bards  and  JScotch  reviewers "  whom  he 
has  assailed.  On  whose  side  is  the  descending  deity 
we  are  not  quite  sure,  since  he  seems  to  administer 
his  blows  with  admirable  immrtiality  upon  Greek 
and  Trojan  alike.  But  the  blows  themselves  are 
doughty,  and  some  among  those  who  have  to  be 
removed  on  stretchers  or  left  on  the  field  took  no 
part  in  the  fray,  but  might  almost  be  regarded  as 
nelpless  bystanders.  *  A  Censor  of  Critics '  is  the 
title  Mr.  bymons  bestows  on  his  article,  with  some 
of  the  conclusions  of  which  we  agree.  Writing  on 
'  The  Conditions  of  Franco-British  Peace,' the  Baron 
Pierre  de  Coubertin  gives  good  advice,  but  is  any- 
thing rather  than  reassuring  in  view.  To  read  his 
article  beside  *A  Fool's  Paradise,'  by  Col.  Wil- 
loughby  Vomer,  with  which  we  are  forbidden  to 
defil,  will  give  thoughtful  Englishmen  a  mauvais 
^art  (Theure.  Mr.  Courtney's  *  Sonnet  of  Revolt  * 
IS  a  bid  for  a  fuller  life.  *  Eros  in  French  Fiction 
and  Fact'  is  by  the  author  of  *  An  Englishman  in 
Paris.'  This  is  smartly  written,  and  tells  brightly 
some  fairly  familiar  truths,  borne  additions  to 
M.  Jusserand's  * Shakesiieare  in  France'  might  be 
obtained  from  the  narrative  how  *  Othello'  has 
been  treated  or  received  when  produced  in  Paris. 
M  r.  Heathcote  Statham  writes  on  *  The  Salon  and 
the  Royal  Academy.'  In  tho  comparison  between 
the  two  exhibitions  England  comes  off  better  than 
we  expected.  There  is  a  greater  proportion  of  good 
pictures  at  the  Academy  than  at  the  SSalon,  but  the 
same  heights  are  not  reached. —To  the  majority 
of  readers  of  the  Nineteenth  Century  the  nv<^^ 
interesting  and  tbft  ti;\q%\«  <»ycAK^^^L  ^TfCvOA  ^"^Xs^ 
that  oi  Mr.  XTvdT^^^TTv^«i^wv''^T\V:\^^'ws»s^^^ 


460 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      (v^8.vil  june8.i«oi. 


with  which  the  nuiDber  opens.  Not  at  all  the  sort 
of  matter  is  it  with  which  we  are  prei^red  or 
expected  to  deal,  but  in  days  in  which  pessimism  is 
in  the  air  it  is  pleasant  to  find  so  outspoken  an 
utterance.  Side  by  side  with  this  it  is  edifying  to 
peruse  the  'Impressions  of  America*  formed  by 
Mr.  Frederic  Harrison  in  the  course  of  a  visit  he 
paid  to  Chicago  in  order  to  deliver  the  annual 
address  in  commemoration  of  George  Washington. 
One  of  the  points  on  which  he  dwells  is  the  fact 
that  he  is  older  than  the  city  in  which  he  spoke ; 
that  at  the  period  of  his  own  birth  Chicaeo,  as  he 
learnt,  was  a  village  in  a  swamp  with  one  nundred 
inhabitants.  The  point  he  seems  to  have  noticed 
with  most  discontent  was  that  from  men  of  great 
cultivation  and  humanity  he  heard  such  sweeping 
condemnation  of  the  ne^  race,  and  such  cool 
indifference  to  the  sensational  reports  of  lynching 
which  appear  frequently  in  the  public  prinU.  The 
Viceroy  of  India  sends  an  interesting  account  of 
*The  Queen  Victoria  Memorial  Hall  in  India.' 
Lord  Covrper  furnishes  a  vigorous  translation  of 
some  of  the  more  important  scenes  in  '  L'Aiglon  *  of 
M.  Edmond  Rostand,  produced  on  Monday  last 
bv  Madame  Bernhardt  and  M.  Coquelin  at  Her 
Majesty's.  Mr.  Vernon  Harcourt  writes  on  *  The 
Next  Coronation/  Mr.  Atherley  -  Jones  on  *The 
House  of  Commons/  and  Mr.  Walter  Frewen 
Lord  on  *  Our  Offers  to  surrender  Gibraltar.'  The 
number  indeed  overflows  with  matter  of  interest 
and   importance,  though  papers  on  literary  sub- 

J'eots  are  not  conspicuous  among  the  contents.— 
:n  the  Pall  Mall  Mr.  William  Archer  and  Mr. 
Stephen  Phillips,  in  a  '*  real  conversation,"  are  in 
happy  accord  in  their  censure  of  critics.  Thev  are 
unfortunately  discreet,  or  even  enigmatical,  in 
utterance,  and  fail  to  explain  who  or  what  are  the 
objects  of  their  severest  censure.  Mr.  Archer 
replies,  in  answer  to  a  complaint  of  his  interlocutor* 
"  When  hostility  to  the  higher  drama  is  in  ques- 
tion there  can  be  no  doubt  what  paper  yon  have  in 
mind."  Personally  we  have  not  the  slightest  idea 
what  paper  is  meant.  So  sad  it  is  to  be  "not  in  the 
swim."  We  are  bound  to  sav  that  the  complaining 
strikes  us  as  a  little  unworthy.  *  Feeding  Time  at 
the  Zoo '  has  but  one  fault :  it  is  much  too  short. 
Mr.  Wedmore  writes  on  Chardin,  and  recommends 
to  the  connoisseur  the  purchase  of  prints  still  to 
be  obtained  at  moderate  prices.  The  article  has 
some  excellent  reproductions  of  Chardin's  works. 
'An  Unpublished  Chapter  in  the  Life  of  Robert 
Louis  Stevenson'  is  both  interesting  and  sadden- 
ing. It  depicts  Stevenson  in  the  penod  of  hardest 
stress.  *  How  the  Welsh  Water  comes  to  Birming- 
ham '  may  be  read  with  much  interest,  as  may  *  The 
Voyaee  of  the  Polar  Star,'  by  H.R.H.  the  Duke  of 
the  Abruzzi.  The  whole  constitutes  an  admirable 
number.— No.  V.  of  *  A  Londoner's  Log-Book,'  in  the 
ConikUl^  is  a  clever  and  humorous  piece  of  writing. 
The  Rev.  W.  Hutton  gives  *Some  Memories  of 
George  Crabbe.'  A  very  favourable  estimate  is 
formed  of  the  poet.  We  scarcely  understand  the 
criticism  that  *' Crabbe  was  generations  more 
modem  than  Scott."  Dr.  Fitchett  continues  his 
spirited  '  Tale  of  the  Great  Mutiny,'  and  writes  of 
Lucknow  and  Sir  Henry  Lawrence.  We  are  sorry 
to  find  in  the  Comhill  a  paper  on  *  Rook  Shooting.' 
A  sonnet  by  Mr.  William  Watson  entitled  *  Melaji- 
cholia,'  No.  V.  of  'The  Blackstick  Papers,'  and 
'A  Child  oi  the  Eighteenth  Century '  are  all  note- 
wort  Ay. —In  Lanffman^H  No.  VIL  (t\\©  \aaX,  «o  Iw  «jft 


the  lovely  Madame  R^camier.  'In  the  Woods  at 
8unrise'  is  a  quite  excellent  sketch  by  Mr.  Fred 
Whishaw.  Mr.  R.  R.  C.  Gregory  writes  sensiblv 
on  '  The  Mission  of  Mr.  Rider  Haggard,  and  Rural 
Education.'  Among  other  subiects  Mr.  Lang,  in 
^At  the  Sign  of  the  Ship,'  deals  with  Mr.  H.  B. 
Irving's  *  Studies  of  French  Criminals.'  —  In  the 
fTentleman's  the  most  interesting  articles  are  on 
folk-lore.  'Some  Further  Folk-rhymes,'  by  Mr. 
Arthur  L.  Salmon,  are  acceptable.  Mr.  Salmon,  how- 
over,  speaks  too  slightingly  concerning  the  verses. 
Rimes  such  as  those  concerning^  Tweed  and  Till 
embody  admirably  rustic  imaginines.  *  Fish-lore,' 
l)y  Miss  Finch,  is  very  readable.  Mr.  W.  Andrewb 
writes  agreeably  concerning  Tutbury,  one  of  the 
most  picturesque  and  interesting  of  onr  smaller 
English  towns.  *A  Forgotten  English  Worthy,' 
by  the  Hon.  George  A.  Sinclair,  deals  icith  Lord 
Cutts,  characterized  by  Thackeray  as  "  the  bravest 
and  most  beloved  officer  in  the  British  Army.'' 
Miss  Georgiana  Hill  writes  on  '  Hugh  Elliot :  the 
Soldier  Diplomatist.'— The  cover  of  the  Idler  gives 
a  striking  portrait  of  Dr.  W.  G.  Grace,  which  is 
reproduced  at  the  head  of  his  article  on  *  Cricket 
Reform.'  'A  Prisoner  among  Filipinos'  is  con- 
cluded. 

As  a  PaU  Mall  Moffozine  Extra  has  been  iMued 
Pictures  of  1901,  a  series  of  reproductiona  of  the 
]  principal  pictures  on  view  at  tne  Royal  Academy 
and  the  New  Gallery.  It  is  adrairably  exeoutea, 
und  constitutes  a  marvellous  shillingsworth. 

Messrs.  Chatto  Sl  Windus  have  recently  issued 
No.  XXVIL  of  their  Academy  NoUs/ar  boi.  it 
is  included  in  the  "  Henry  Blackburn  s  Art  Hand- 
books," and  constitutes  a  pleasing  and  attractive 
souvenir  of  the  exhibition. 


Wt  mtise  caJH  tpedal  aUentum  to  tk€  foUewm 
notices:^ 

On  all  communications  most  be  written  the  name 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  necessarily  lor  pub- 
lication, but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  faith. 

Wx  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately. 

To  secure  insertion  of  oonmmnioatioiis  corrs- 
spondents  must  observe  the  following  mlsi.  Let 
t)ach  note,  query,  or  replj  be  written  cm  a  separate 
»lip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
guch  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  When  answer 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previoai 
i^ntries  in  the  paper,  contributors  are  requested  to 

^>ut  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  exact 
leading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  pages  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repsst 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  second  oon- 
munication  **  Duplicate." 

John  Pickford.— 

I  do  love  these  ancient  mins. 

Webster,  *The  Duchess  of  Mal^.' 

/NOTICE. 

Editorial  Communications  should  be  addressed  to 
**  The  Editor  of  '  Notes  and  Queries '  "—Advertise 
mente  and  Business  Letters  to  *'llie  Poblishsr"- 
at  the  Office,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chanoery  Laos,  K.C 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  rsian 
communications  which,  for  any  reason,  we  do  wt 


we  coo  jucfee)  of '  The  Women  oi  t\ie^a\o\ift'  ^le^viX^X'tf'^^^  vA\«k>aMkarQaifc-fi^ 


•»8.vu.juKK8.i9oi.)       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE. 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


TJU  ATHRNMVM  far  June  1  contains  ArtieUs  on 

Tbm  LAST  TBAB8  of  QUBEN  BUZABBTH. 

CALBMDAB  of  the  INNER  TBM PLB  RBCO&DB. 

The  WORKS  ef  MOVAU8. 

MR.  HOWBLLB  ud  hU  PRIBND6. 

MR.  BODLBT'B  'PRANCB'  In  FRBNCH. 

MBW  MOyBLB:-Th«  8eel  of  SUeDoe;  Forest  Folk ;  My  Heeit  and 

Late :  Denrent's  Hone ;  A  Damrbter  of  the  Veldt ;  The  Good  Red 

Buth :  Blaek  Mary. 
CHINA. 

■CHOOL.BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLB-LI8T  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
BHGLISH  LITBRATURB  Ud  AMBRICAN  PROFB880R8:  LAM  DOR 

Md  hlsRDITORS:  HUCHOWN;  SALB;  BRAZILIAN  NAMB8  Of 

MONKBT8;  "MANBRIUS.'* 

Alm>~ 
UTBRART  GOSSIP. 
SCIBNCB^-Attken's   Rood    Making    and    Mainteaaaee;    Soelettee; 

Meetlaire  Next  Week ;  Go»aip. 
FINB  ARTS :— Bow.  Chelsea,  and  Derby  Poreelaln ;  Drawlngt  at  the 

BriUeh   MoMiun;    Aeqvlsltloaa  at  the  NaUoaal   GaUery-.    Mr. 

Ooader'a  Water-Coloare ;  Salon*  of  1901 ;  Goaaip. 
MUSIC:— Royal  Italian  Opera;  Phllbarmonie  Onae-rt;  Mr.  Bauer's 

Pianoforte  Reeltal ;  Goeelp ;  Perfomaaees  Next  Week. 

'  Blanebette' ;  Library  Table;  Geeslp. 


Tfu  ATHENySiUa  for  Ma^  18  eontaim  Ariiclt  on 

The  MAN  In  the  IRON  MASK. 

The  BTOLUTION  of  the  BNGUSH  BIBLB. 

The  LIPB  of  MRS.  LYNN  LINTON. 

SIR  WALTSR  BBSANT  on  BAST  LONDON. 

A  NEW  STUDY  of  BOLINGRBOKB. 

A  OBRMAN  PHILOSOPHER'S  IDBAL  of  HUMANITY. 

TWO  TRANSLATIONS  fross  ITALIAN  POETS 

NBW  NOVBLS :— Tbe  Warden  of  the  Marehes;  On  Peter's  Island-, 
Northborovf  b  Cross ;  Afield  and  Afloat ;  Oaders ;  The  Ktranf  e  Bx- 
porleneee  of  Mr.  Versehoylc;  Prince  Rnpert  the  Boeeaneer;  Ray's 
Daochter;  Tbe  Gamblers i  Plato's  Handmaiden;  A  Patehed-ap 


CANADA  and  the  UNITBD  8TATBS. 

EDUCATIONAL  LITBRATUKB. 

MILTTABY  BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TAHLB-LI8T  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

OBNERAL   GORIWN;    The    BAKLY    ENGLISH    TBXT   SOCIETY; 

••DORMANCY":     GOWEH'S     '  MIKUUR     de     luMMB';     The 

JESUITS  in  ENGLAND  ;  SALE 

Al«o— 
LITERARY  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE :-ABthropolo«loal     Notes;     Miss    Christian    Maelagan; 

Soeieties  ;  Meetincs  Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
FINE  ARTS :— The  Royal  Academy ;  Mr.  John's  Dimwings  at  Meesrs. 

Carfax's ;  Th«  Reiss  EaffraTlags ;  ^ales ;  uossip. 
MUSIC :-Royal   Italian  Opera;  Mr  Tovey's  Reeltal:  Pbilharmonle 

Coneest;  The  Joaehim  Qoartet;  Mr.  Batter's  Pianoforte  Recital  { 

Gossip  i  Performanees  Next  Week. 

•  The  Secret  Orchard ' ;  Gossip. 


fili 


Tht  ATHKSASUM  for  May  S5  contains  Articles  on 
ST.  JOHN'S  COLLEGE.  CAMRKIDOB 
AUSTRALASIA  OLD  and  NBW. 
An  ELIZABETHAN  PURYBYANCB. 
SCHUYLER'S  B8SAY8. 
The  HISTORY  of  ROSS. 

NBW  NOVELS :-Jack  Raymond;  My  Son  Richard;  ASoraTemi 
tion;    A  Vanished  Rival;    Sawdant;    Monsieur  Heancaire 
Treasnre  of  Oivtaln  Scarlett ;  The  Burden  of  an  Honour. 

FRBNCH  HISTORY. 

TWO  BOOKS  on  ABYSSINIA. 

THEOLOGICAL  LITBRATURB. 

OUR  UBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

BNGUSH  LITERATURE  and  AMBRICAN  PROFBSHOB8 ;  CRITICA 
CRITICIZED ;  SALES. 

Also- 
literary  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE:— Dr.  AUchin's  Manual  of  Medicine;  Societies;  Meetinn 
Next  Week ;  Gossip. 

FINE  ARTS  :-LlbnrT  Table ;  The  Royal  Academy  ;  Notes  from 
Rome :  The  Salons  of  1901 ;  The  Guiidhali  uataloffue :  Sales  • 
Gossip. 

MUSIC :— Royal  Italian  Opens  ;  Riehter  Concert ;  Recital  by  SeSor 
Satasate  and  Madame  Marx  ;  Pureell's  •  Fairy  Queen ' ;  Goesip ; 


Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA :  —  'The  Sacnuncnt  of  Judas' ; 
Goaaip. 


Athens' 


*  VUorxa "    la    ■  Timon    of 


"T5?  fK'fiC'.f.""*"?,"'^  Vrtniras;  The  Heatence 
'  7^^  ^^^^^  Claudia  Pole:  The  Cardinal's 
ack  Wolfs  Breed ;  Lore  the  Lainard  ;  As  UieTwif  U 


The  ATU&NAiUUfor  May  11  cot,tatnM  Articles  am 
MORE  NOTES  from  a  DIARY. 
The  NEW  BNGUSH  DICTIONARY. 
An  EARLY  VOYAGE  to  JAPAN. 
DEMOSTHENES  on  the  CROWN  RB-BDITBD. 
An  ITALIAN  on  the  FRENCH  REVOLUTION. 
NEW  NOVELS  :-The  Heril 

of  the  Court;  T 

Rose;  The  Black 

Bent;  TntTaU. 
BIBUOGRAPHICAL  UTERATURB. 
OUR  UBRARY  TABLE-LIMT  of  NEW  H(X>KS. 
The     EDWA&DB8     LIBRARY;     The     KAHLT     ENGLISH     TEXT 

SOCIETY ;  CURDS  and  •  CROWDY  ";  The  FRASER  HALB. 

LITERARY  GOSSIP.  "*~ 

SCIENCB— The  North  Americans  of  Yesterday ;  Soeieties  •   Meetinn 
Next  Week ;  Gossip.  * 

FINE  ARTB-The  RoTal  Academy;  Telemaou  Slmorini;  The  Guild, 
hall  Oataloinw ;  Sales ;  OiisBip 

MUSIC-London  Musical  FesUTal;  The   Jnaehim  Quartet;   Libiftry 
Table  ;H.F.Flr«et;  Gossip  sPurformaneea  Next  Week^     ^^^ 


DRAMA -'Beau  Austin'; 
Gossip. 


Macaire' 


'  A   Woman   in   the  Case ' 


I%e  ATHENjEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    C,    FRANCIS,    Athenaum    Office,    Bream's   BnildingB,    Chanoery  Lane,   B.G. 

And  of  all  NtfrBageaU. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      v^H.viLJtm^im. 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBPARTMENT 


THK  FOLLOWnrO 


magaziubs  and 

BBVIBWS. 


WlTUDBAWn  FROM 
OISOULATIOn. 


LIBRARY  COPIES 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  aay  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 


Until  farther  ngtioe  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFIEU  DATE. 

raa  unvu. 


Ar|{itsy 

BiackW(KKl'»      

Century  

Contemporary  Keview 

Cornhill 

Kiiglitb  lUottrmted    ... 
Vurtnightly  Beview  ... 

HiirpcHKs 

Longnmn's        


7 

6 

MftcmillAn'*      .*.       ... 

13 

0 

Moatbly  Beview        ... 
National  Beview 

10 

6 

16 

0 

Nineteenth  Oentory  ... 

7 

6 

Pall  Mall          

6 

0 

Bevue  det  Deux  Mondet 

16 

0 

Scribner'i          

9 

0 

Temple  Bar      

6 

0 

t.  4. 
7    6 


Bdinburgb 


QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
7    6|QuMterly  


7  f 


The  terms  will  be  U.  6d.  per  anoum  less  to  Sabscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  BoolnUlk  to 
have  the  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCB,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  lees  period  tbu 
TWICLVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  namber  sabecribed  lor. 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinaed. 

aUfiSORIPTIONS  MAT  COMMENCA  AT  ANT  DATS. 


A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.       H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  Railway  BookitaUi,  to  which  plaees  thsy  will  be  forwarded  earrittfe  free, 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED. 

CKNTUBY  MAQAZINB.  The.    Vol.  30       

ATALANTA  MAGAZINB.    Vol.  6     

LONDON  BOCIBTY.    3  volt,  (or  1891  

3volt.  (orlSW         

CASSBLL'S  MAGAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1898,  to  May,  1899.    Illuttrated 

Vol.  for  June  Ut  November,  1899.    Illuttrated        

Vol.  for  December,  1899,  to  May,  1900  

CHAMBBBS'S  JOUBNAL  of  POPULAB  LITBBATUBB,  SOIBNOB.  and  ABTS.    Vol.  for  1802... 

Vol.  for  1896 „ 

Vol.  for  1897 

Vol.  for  1898 

Vol.  for  1899 

gUIVBB  VOLUMB.    November,  1897.  to  April.  1898 

November,  l«i98,  to  April,  1899 „ 

May  to  Octol»er,  1899  

GOOD  WOBDS.    Volt,  for  1888.  1^92. 1894.  1895,  1897.  and  1898        

i) UN  DAY  MAGAZINB.     Vols,  for  18H9.  1893,  1894,  1895,  and  1898 


at 

a.   4. 

8    6... 

8  0... 
16  0  ... 
16    0    ... 


9  0... 

9  9^ 

9  6... 

•  0    ... 

9  6... 


6   ... 
0   ... 


W.  H.  SMITH  k  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION   LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Bailway  BooktUUs,  to  which  placet  Subtcribert  can  be  tnuMfenrad,  tm  of  ebaiii 

FrotpeettLt  of  Temu,  «c.,  tent  free  upon  application  to  186,  STMAND,  LONDON, 


S  f 


S  < 
s  • 
s  < 

t  • 


K 


NOTES   AND    QUERIES: 

%  |[Ul>hnii  9i  |nur(oinmnniatti0n 


roB 


LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,     ETC. 


•*WlwB  foud,  make  a  net*  ot"— Captain  Cuttlb, 


No.  181.  [a"?™.]  Saturday,  June  15,  1901. 


PRIOB  FOUBPKirOK. 


BOOKS,  H88.,  &c.~Mee8rs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  ic 
CO.,  AvctiODMra  of  BookB  and  Utemtr  Propwty  of  eTerj 
deseriptioa.  LibnulM  and  siiuUler  CoUeettons  oaretnilj  Uatalofved 
a»d  promptly  offlsred  for  Sale.  Paekinir  and  KemoTal  arranffed  (or. 
Talvations  made  (or  Probate  or  other  porpooee.  Avctton  Booms,  116, 
ChaafearyLaae  (Fleet  Street  end).    -——-•---"— 


BOOKS,  RARE  and  OUT  of  PRINT,  SUPPLIED, 
rieaae  state  wants.  CATALOOUEB  free.  Libraries  and  Small 
Panels  of  Books  Pvrehased  for  Ouh.  DUtaace  no  object.  Special 
List  of  WaaU  free.— HOLLAND  00.  Book  Merehaate,  BUrmlagham. 


BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  sup- 
plied, no  natter  on  wkat  Snbject.  Acknowledf  ed  the  worid  oTcr 
ae  tli«  matt  expert  Bookdnders  extant.  PIom*  atate  wants.— UAKKK'S 
ereas  Bookahop,  14-18,  Jokn  Brifht  Street,  Blrmlnghaw. 


AOBNOY  FOR  AMBRICAM  BOOKS. 

(i,     P.    PUTNAM'S   SONS,   PUBLISHERS   and 

VJ*  B0OKSBLLRB8. 

of  xr  and  ».  West  Brd  Scrcet,  New  York,  and  24,  BEDFORD  STRBBT, 

LOUDON,   W.O..   desire  to  caU   the   atteaUoa    of   the    RRADINO 

PUBLIC  to  the  ezeellsat  faellitiet  preeeated  bj  their  Branch  Hoose  is 

London  (or  flllinf,  on  tlie  most  fsToorable  terms,  orders  for  their 

own     STANDARD    PUBUCATIONS.    and    (or     ALL    AMB&ICAN 

BOO&B. 

OatalORttes  sent  on  appltoatioa. 


(lULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

^^  lor  Senrehes  and  Anthentic  Infonnation  respeetlaff 

ARMORIAL   BBARINGS   AND   FAMILY   DB8CBNT8, 

with  a  Separate  Department  for  the  Artistic  Production  of 

HRRALDIC  PAINTING  AND  BNORATINO. 

Book-plates,  Seals.  Dies,  Signet  Rings.  LiTory  Buttons.  Crested  Note- 

Paper,  yisiungaad  loTltatlon  Cards,  *e. 


».  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Green  Park). 

8CHWBPPBB  WATERS  awarded  Geld  Medal  at  International 
Bxhibidon,  Paris.  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesboda 

THESE  WATERS  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonio-Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Oinger 
A  le,  Ac.,  kc.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty, 

/  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:—  . 
<  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLINO  MALVERN, } 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  J 

ScHWBPPBS,  LTD.,  LONDON,  JuALVERN, 

ttLAMOW.  UVaSffOOL,  BBUTDL,  STDNBT,   aai  MILBOUAMB. 


N' 


OTES  AND  QUERIES.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 

to  NOTBS  AVD  QUBRIB8  frse  bj  post  Is  lOt.  84.  for  Six  Months ; 
or  Xte.  64.  for  Twelre  Months,  inclndlnf  the  Volume  Index.— JOHN  C. 
FRANCIS.  IfoUa  and  Qmtriea  OSoe,  Bream's  Bnildlngs,  Chancery  Lane. 


s 


COTTISH     NOTBS     AND    QUERIES. 


Just  pnbUsbed,  price  ftc.  pest  free,  a  GBNBRAL  INDBX  to  the  Flnt 
Sertee  of  Twelre  Volumes  (1887-1880).  It  contains  etna  17.000  Refer- 
enoee  to  a  wide  variety  of  Topics  ffermane  to  *  S.  N.  a  Q.' 

A.  BROWN  a  CO.  PnhUahers,  88.  Union  Street.  Aberdeen. 

MORING'S    QUARTERLY.     An  lUastrated 
Journal  doTOted  to  Art,  Aroheolonr.  and  Hermldrj,  of  which  the 
ttresentauon  of  handsome  Plates  Is  a  spedaUty.       Price  U.,  or  by  post 
a.  84. ;  or  Annual  Subscription,  it.,  indudinf  postage. 

Th$  ComUnU  o/  No.  XVZII.  (Nem  StriuJ,  note  readv,  ineUide  .— 
ARLB8.    With  2  lUustrations.    By  B.  Stanley. 
SOMB  MOOBRN  DUTCH  ARTItfTS.    With  3  Full  Page  Plates,  one 

of  which  Is  a  PhotogmTurs  Dfinted  on  Plate  Paper. 
SHAKESPBARB'S    TRBATMBNT    of    the    R0SB8    Of   YORK  and 

LANCASTER.    By  Gale  Pedrick,  FR.Hist.8oc. 
OFF  the  BBATBN  TRACK :  CaerlaTcrock  CasUe.     Illustrated.     By 

B  Gibbon. 
An  ORIGINAL  COPPER  PLATE,  Ec  LAtm.  ac. 

The  DB  LA  MORE  PRESS,  &2,  High  Holbom.  London,  W.C. 


ATHENiEUM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIB.  Printer  of  the  AHunmum,  Natu  mnd  <bmi$»,  Ac..  U 
prepared  to  SUBMIT  ESTIMATES  for  aU  kinds  of  BOOK.  NEWS. 
andTPERIODICAL  PRINTING.— IS,  Bream's  BnUdings,  Chancery 
Lane.  E.C. 

l^HE     AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER- PAD. 

X     (The  LEADEN  HALL  PRESS.  Ltd..  Publishers  and  Printers, 
SO,  Loadenhall  Street.  Londoa.  E.C. ) 

Contain*  hairleee  paper,  over  which  the  pea  slips  with  perfect 
freedom.  Sixpence  each.  St.  per  dosen.  ruled  or  plain.  New  Poefcet 
Sise,  8s.  per  dosen,  ruled  or  plain. 

Authors  should  note  that  The  Lsadenhall  Frees,  Ltd..  cannot  be 
respooaible  for  the  lorn  of  M8S.  by  Are  or  otherwise.    Duplicate  copies 


STICKPHAST  PASTE  is  HEAPS  better  than 
Gum  for  sticking  In  Scraps,  lolning  Papers.  Ac.  84.  and  U.  with 
strong,  useful  Brush  (not  a  Toy).  Send  two  stumps  to  cover  possage 
for  a  sample  Bottle,  including  Brush.  I^setory,  Sugar  Loaf  Court, 
LeadeahalTstreet.  E.a    Of  aU  StattoMrs.    Stiekphast  Paste  stteks. 


WM.     (&     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFBS— SUGAB^TBA. 

104,  Wk  ««WJ^  %'V«K\>^5^. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    (9»8.vilju!™i6,moi. 

THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


Tlu  ATHENjEUMfor  June  8  eontaitu  ArtieUs  on 
MODERN  ITALY. 
The  RBOOHDS  of  LBICBSTBR. 
OUR  IMDO-OERMANIC  AMCB8TOR8. 
MR  KBRNAHAN'8  B88AT8. 
Th«  RIGHT  to  LIYB. 
MBW  NOVELS :-F»dfloo ;  The  Lord  of  the  Scft;  Pariou  Timet;  A 

Forbidden  Name  -,  The  DeTlI's  Plouirh ;  Her  Mftjeety't  Mioiater ; 

By  Oonmiuid  of  the  Prloee ;  Her  MoantaUi  U>Ter ;  The  Interloper ; 

SFANISRaad  ITALIAM  LITERATURE. 

LAW-BOOKS. 

SHORT  STORIES. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE- LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

The  DAISY  in  AMERICA  ;  The  MEANING  of  -  GBNTB  DI8PBTTA- 

in  the   •  INFERNO ' :   ORIGIN  of  -  PBOCARY  "  :   SUGGESTED 

EMENDATIONS  In  CHAUCER  :  INTERNATIONAL  PRESS  CON- 

0RB8S ;  The  BARROIS-ASHBURNHAM  MANUSCRIPTS. 
Auo— 
LITERARY  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE :-Thc  Royal  Obeefratonr.  Greenwich;  Sodetiee ;  Meetlaft 

Next  Week ;  GoMip. 
FINR  ARTS:— The  Royti  Aeademy ;   Sonlpture;  "Tke  Chimes": 

Sales :  Gossip. 
MUSIC  :-Stanrord's     'Mneh    Ado    abont    Nothinc';    *Sieirfried'; 

•Die  Meisteralnrer'i  Reeltals  by  Mr.  Frledheim.  M.  Oodowakj. 

aiMl  M.  de  Paehmann ;  Gossip ;  Performanees  Next  Week. 
DRAMA :—' L'Aiglon ' :  'Women  are  so  Berievsl;  'A  Ladj  from 

Texas ' ;  Gossip.  

T?u  ATHESjEUM  for  May  U  oontainM  Articlu  on 
ST.  JOHN'S  COLLEGE.  OAMBRIDOB. 
AUSTRALASIA  OLD  and  NEW. 
An  ELIZABETHAN  PURVEYANCE. 
SCHUYLER'S  ESSAYS. 
The  HISTORY  of  ROSS. 

NEW  NOVELS :— Jack  Raymond  ;  My  Son  Richard ;  A  Sore  Tempta- 
tion ;    A  Vanished  Riral ;    Sawdust ;    Monsieur  Beanoaire ;  The 

Treasure  of  Captain  Searlett ;  The  Burden  of  an  Honour. 
FRENCH  HISTORY. 
TWO  BOOKS  on  ABYSSINIA. 
THEOLOGICAL  UTERATURE. 
OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE— LIST  Of  NEW  BOOKS. 
ENGLISH  LITERATURE  and  AMERICAN  PROFESSORS  ;  CRITICA 

CRITICIZED :  SALES. 

Auo- 
LITERARY  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE :— Dr.  Allchln's  Manual  of  Medicine;  Societies;  Meetings 

Next  Week ;  Gossip. 
FINE  ARTS :-Librarr  Table;    The  Royal    Academy:    Notes  from 

Rome;  The  Salons  of  1801 ;   The  OuUdhaU  Ostaiofue;   Sales; 

Gossip. 
MUSIC :-Royal  Italian  Opera;   Riehter  Concert;  Recital  by  Seftor 

Sarasate  and  Madame  Marx  ;  Pureell's  '  Fairy  Queen ' ;  Ooesip ; 

Performances  Next  Week. 
DRAMA:— 'The  8aerament  Of  Judas ' ;   "Vllorxa"    in    'Timon   of 

Athens ' ;  Gossip. 


Hu  A TUENMVM  for  Jyau  1  eontaina  Artidm  on 
The  LAST  YEARS  of  QUEEN  ELIZABETH. 
CALENDAR  of  the  INNER  TEMPLE  RBOORDE. 
The  WORKS  of  NOVALIS. 
MR.  HOWELLS  and  his  FRIENDS. 
MR.  BODLEY'S  'FRANCE'  In  FRENCH. 
NEW  NOVELS :-The  Seal  of  SUenee;  Forest  Folk;  My  Haait  sad 

Lute ;  Derwent's  Horse ;  A  Oaathter  of  the  Veldt :  The  Geod  Bed 

Earth ;  Black  Mary. 
CHINA. 

SCHOOL-BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  Of  NEW  BOOKS. 
ENGLISH  LITERATURE  and  AMERICAN  FROFBESOBS;  LAKDOB 

and  his  EDITORS  :  HUCHOWM;  SALB;  B&ABXLIAM  WaMIS  Oi 

MONKEYS;  "MAitERIUS."  »*^a«  jiAmae  « 

Also- 
literary  GOSSIP. 
SCIENCE:— Aitken's    Road    Making    asd    MaiateaaaM:    Bodstlw 

Meetinfrs  Next  Week ;  Oovsip. 
FINE  ARTS :— Bow.  Chelsea,  and  Derby  Pareelaia ;  Dimwisfs  at  ths 

BriUsh   Museum;    AoquisitlOBs  at   the   Nattoaal   Galteiy;   Xr. 

Condor's  Water-Colours ;  Saloas  of  1901  (  Gooalp. 
MUSIC:— Royal  Italian  Opera;  Phllharmoale  Ooae^tt;  Mr.  teMr*! 

Pianoforte  Redtal ;  Ooealp ;  Perfonaaaota  Next  Waak. 
DRAMA.— 'Mariana'; 'Blaaehette'    *" rTiiTrlii.  Tlosilp 


Tko  ATHENjUUM  for  May  18  oontaim  Artidm  on 

The  MAN  in  the  IRON  MASK. 

The  BVOLUTION  of  the  ENGLISH  BIBLB. 

The  LIFE  of  MRS.  LTNM  LINTON. 

SOL  WALTBR  BBSANT  on  BAST  LONDON. 

A  NEW  STUDY  of  BOLINGBROKB. 

A  GERMAN  PHILOSOPHBRV  IDEAL  of  RUMAMITT. 

TWO  TRANSLATIONS  from  ITALIAM  FOBTB. 

NEW  NOVELS:— The  Warden  of  the  Marohae;  Oa  FMtt^  lalMd; 
Northboroufh  Croes ;  Afield  and  Afloat;  Gladara;  Tka  anaaie  Bi- 
perienoes  of  Mr.  Versehoyle ;  Priaee  Rapart  tha  Baeeaaser:  Bar's 
Dauchter;  The  Gamblers;  Platot  Baadaaaldiaa ;   A  raatislw 

CANADA  and  the  UNITED  STATES. 

EDUCATIONAL  LITERATURE. 

MILITARY  BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE-LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS. 

GENERAL   GORDON;    The    EARLY    BNGU8H    TBXT  SOCXXTT; 

"DORMANCY";     GOWBR'S     '  MIROUB    da     1X>MMB':    Ihl 

JESUITS  in  ENGLAND  ;  SALE. 


LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE :  -  Anthropoloirloal     Neias ;     Mleo 

Societies ;  Meetinffs  Next  Week ;  Ooselp. 
FINE  ARTS  :-The  Roy^  Academy ;  Mr.  Jolui's  Dmwlafi  at 

Carfax's ;  The  Reiss  EnfraTints  •  "•^  -  " — •- 


MUSIC :-Royal   Italian  Opera;  Mr   TOTeyls  Baeltal: 

Concert;  rhe  Joaehim  Qaartat;  Mr.  Baaafa  1 

Goasip ;  Performaaoee  Next  Week. 

DRAMA:-' The Seeret Orchard';  Ooealp. 


The  ATHENJEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE^  of 
JOHN    C.     FBANCIS,    AthensBam    Office,    Bream's   Buildings,    Cbanoery  LaiM,   S.G. 

And  ot  «i&i  U^vcflygents. 


9*8.viLJuNBi6.i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


461 


LONDON,  SATURDAY,  JUNE  15,  1901. 

CONTENTS. -No.  181. 

NOTBB:-*  Burial  of  Sir  John  Moore/  461 -Bocletiastical 
"Peculiars,"  4<W— St.  George  and  the  Dragon— Voltaire's 
Church— Michael  Bruce  and  Bums— A  Female  Worker  in 
Iron-  S.  Burton,  466— A  Ladle— Samplers— Scotch  Death 
Supenttition,  467. 

QUBRTKS  :— Motto  on  Sundial— Hammer-Ponds :  Mussels 
and  Pearls— Napoleon  and  a  Coat  of  Mall,  467— Dowager 
Peereos  —  Leadbeater  MS. —  Sir  R.  Verney-John  Scott, 
Salter  -*'  Gentller"— Phillippo-Flag  of  Bast  India  Com- 
pany—Cape  Quardafui— Thompsons  of  York—"  -itis,"  A*6 
— Prisoners  of  War  in  Literature— Battledore— "Maikau" 

—  Bronte  Topography— "The  Bible,  Crown,  and  Con- 
stitution "—Haydon  Family,  469. 

BBPLIRS  :— Painted  and  Bngraved  Portraits,  470— 'The 
Two  Duchesses '  — Cluny  and  Clunie  — Roman  Catholic 
Records— Bishop's  Head  and  Foot— Bngland  and  Scotland 
reproduced  in  America,  471— "  LiyngelT "—Lotus  Flowers 
and  Lotahs  — Joan  of  Arc  — Adam  Buck  — *' Gone  to 
Jericho,"  472— The  Halberts— Ipplepen,  co.  Devon— Stan- 
bury- Powdering  Gowns,  473— Flower  Game — "Atte" — 
Shakespeare  the  "  Knavish  "  -Book  of  Common  Prayer  in 
L4tln,  474— Rood  Well,  Edinburgh- Byron  on  Greece,  476 
—Continual  Burnt  Offering— Ugo  Foscolo  in  London- 
Baron  Gri  vignce  —  "  Bandy  -  legged  "  =  "  Knock-kneed  " 

—  "  Cnrrick,"  476  —  Dendritic  Markings  in  Paper  — 
"  Shuttles "  —  Plough  Monday  Mummeries  —  Bemardus 
and  Bayard  —  Serjeant  Hawkins,  477 —  **  Personate  "= 
Resound— "A  hago"— Wall  Calendars  with  Quotations 
from  Shakespeare— *  Captain  Clutterbuck's  Champagne  '— 
Delag'«  Bay- •*  Porte-manteau  "—Latin  Motto,  478 

NOTBS  ON  BOOKS  :— Dasent's  *  Acts  of  the  Privy  Council 
of  Bngland  '—Hall's  *  Beowulf,  and  the  Fight  at  Finns- 
burgh '— Arber's  'Dunbar  Anthology'  and  *CowpeT 
Anthology.* 

Sir  Walter  Besant. 

Notices  to  Correspondents. 


*THE  BURIAL  OF  SIR  JOHN  MOORE.' 
Admirers  of  the  Rev.  Charles  Wolfe,  B.A., 
must  have  often  regretted  that  no  attempt 
has  ever  been  made  to  offer  a  formal  state- 
ment  of  the  evidence  adducible  on  behalf  of 
his  frequently  disputed  claim  to  the  author- 
ship of  the  immortal  poem  *  The  Burial  of  Sii- 
John  Moore.'  To  supply  this  deficiency  is  the 
object  of  the  present  lucubration,  wnich  is 
based  entirely  u]9on  research  among  original 
sources.  The  evidence  gathered  may  be  thus 
presented. 

I.  Wolfe's  own  testimony  to  his  authorship 
of  the  poem. — On  26  April,  1841,  Dr.  John  | 
Anster  read  before  the  Royal  Irish  Academv 
a  letter  bearing  on  its  surface  the  postmark 
6  September,  1816,  written  in  the  handwriting 
and  signed  with  the  signature  of  Wolfe,  and 
duly  addressed  to  Mr.  John  Taylor,  a  college 
friend  of  his  and  of  Mr.  Luby,  orotner  of  Dr. 
Luby^ometime  Vice-Provost  of  Trinity  Col- 
lege, Dublin,  who  had  discovered  it  among 
the  papers  left  by  the  said  brother  on  hi8 
decease.  On  24  May,  1841,  this  letter  was 
presented  by  Dr.  Luoy  through  Dr.  Anster 
to  the  i^ore-named  Academy,  and  a  facsimile 
thereof  was  reproduced  in  the  Proceedings 
of  the  Academy  for  the  year  1841,  No.  29. 


The  letter  thus  read  and  presented  is  on  a 
single  folded  sheet  of  paper,  9  in.  by  7J  in.  in 
size.    The  under  side  contains  the  following  : 

**  I  have  completed  *  The  Burial  of  Sir  John  Moore,* 
and  will  here  inflict  it  upon  yoxk ;  you  have  no  one 
but  yourself  to  blame  for  praising  the  two  Stanzas 
that  I  told  you  so  much." 

The  first  seven  stanzas  of  the  poem  then 
follow,  and  extend  to  the  bottom  of  the  paga 
On  turning  to  the  upper  side  of  the  sheet,  we 
find  at  the  top  : — 

**  Pray  write  soon ;  you  may  direct  as  usual  to 
ooUeRe,  and  it  will  follow  me  to  the  country.  Give 
niy  love  to  Armstrong,  and  believe  me,  my  dear 
John,  ever  yours,  Charles  Wolfe. 

"I  again  say  Remember  ftwo  words  illegible]  is 
to  be  drawn  among  them.  You  will  pardon  me  for 
being  particular  about  my  message  from  that 
quarter.'* 

Then  lengthwise,  in  cefitre  of  sheet,  stands 
the  address:  "John  Taylor,  Erq.,  at  the 
Reverend  H.  Armstrong's,  Clonoulty,(Cashell," 
and  juat  above  it  the  postmark,  6  September, 
1816,  whilst  in  lines  breadthwise,  and  parallel 
with  those  at  the  top  of  the  page,  the  last 
stanza  of  the  poem  is  given  at  the  bottom. 

In  the  above-quoted  letter  we  have  Wolfe's 
own  assertion  that  he  wrote  the  poem,  and 
that  Mr.  John  Taylor  knew  from  him  it  had 
been  begun. 

II.  Mr.  John  Sidney  Taylor's  evidence.— In 
a  long  letter  in  the  morning  Chronicle^ 
29  October,  1824,  addressed  from  1,  Garden 
Court,  Middle  Temple,  and  dated  27  October, 
1824,  Mr.  Taylor  says  :— 

"  He  [Wolfe]  was  one  of  my  earliest  and  dearest 
friends.  We  were  contemporaries  of  equal  standing 
in  the  University  of  Dublin.  Similarity  of  pursuits 
created  intimacy.  Though  sometimes  competitors 
for  the  same  academic  honours,  [nothing]  impaired 
our  sense  of  mutual  esteem.  Wolfe  was  equally 
distinguished  in  the  severe  sciences  and  in  polite  lite- 
rature. Emulation,  I  believe,  led  him  to  excel  in  the 
former,  but  the  latter  had  all  his  intellectual  affec- 
tion. I  well  recollect  the  expression  of  mingled  difiS- 
dence  and  enthusiasm  with  which  he  communicated 
to  me  his  tribute  to  the  memory  of  Sir  John  Moore. 
He  had  then  written  but  the  first  and  last  verses, 
and  had  no  intention  of  adding  any  others.  The 
thought  was  inspired  while  reading  an  account  of 
the  death  of  the  Marcellus  of  Corunna  in  some  t>eri- 
odical  work ;  the  approbation  which  these  two 
verses  received  from  the  few  fellow-students  to 
whom  he  showed  them,  among  whom  were  the  Rev. 
S.  0*8ullivan,  now  vicar  of  St.  Catherine's,  Dublin, 
the  Rev.  M.  Dickinson,  and,  I  believe,  Mr.  Grierson, 
of  the  Irish  Bar,  and  one  or  two  more,  induced  him 
to  extend  the  design  and  finish  the  ode  in  the/orm, 
though  not  exacts  wordtd  as  it  came  into  Lord 
Byron's  hands.  When  he  showed  it  to  me  com- 
pleted, which  I  think  was  some  time  in  the  year 
1814, 1  did  not  take  a  copy  of  it,  but  the  verses  im.- 

gressed  themselves  indelibly  oti  tk^  TW5KJ^R«M\ss«k*  "V 
eard  a  low  yei^TO  Bi\jerw^T^v^V«ii  ^^  ^"^^^$52: 


4t)2 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     {»»8.vn.  juk«i«,iwl 


without  the  participation  of  Wolfe,  had  got  into  an 
Irish  newspaper,  whence  they  were  couied  into  a 
magazine.  I  did  not  see  them  publishea  until  they 
reappeared  within  the  last  year  in  the  Devizes 
GazeUe  under  the  title  of  '  The  Dead  Soldier.' " 

In  the  letter  just  quoted— a  copy  of  which 
exists  in  the  British  Museum  — Mr.  Taylor 
distinctly  states  from  his  own  personal  know- 
ledge that  Wolfe  wrote  the  poem  in  question ; 
that  it  at  first  consisted  of  only  two  stanzas, 
as  Wolfe  himself  mentions  in  the  letter  pre- 
viously cited  ;  and  that  its  completion  was 
due  to  the  praise  bestowed  upon  the  afore- 
said stanzas  by  enthusiastic  friends  to  whom 
they  were  shown— one  of  these  being  the 
Kev.  S.  O'SuUivan. 

III.  The  Rev.  Samuel  O'Sulli van's  evidence : 

*'  I  think  it  was  about  the  summer  of  1814  or  1815 
(1  cannot  at  the  moment  say  for  certainty  which),  I 
was  sitting  in  my  college  rooms.  I  then  occupied 
the  floor  of  No.  26,  and  reading  in  the  '  Edinburgh 

Annual  Register,'  in  which  a  very  striking  and  i/oouimviAjr,  ^^xt^u  x**  »  *v»/vo^,  *o  v*  vwvrA.xuu9. 
beautiful  account  is  given  of  the  burial  of  Sir  John  first,  as  in  the  case  of  Sir  William  HAmiltOD, 
Moore,  Wolfe  came  in,  and  (as  you  know  my  custom    it  is  merely  a  report  of  0*Sullivan*8  evidence 

"^t^^if  u**^u*''^^"!l?^'"®*!>^''^M**®^^  as  given  by  him  to  the  writer  peraonaUy: 
which  he  heard  with  deep  and  sensible  emotion.  _  ®  ii  ,  •i.f^„4.:ft^„4.^ii;^i*«.'«  k«,«««-^,«;**.Lj 
We  were  both  loud  and  afdent  in  our  commenda-  secondly,  it  testifies  to  Wolfe  8  havmgadniitt^ 
tion  of  it,  and  after  some  little  time  1  proposed  to  I  U)  the  writer  m  person  his  authorship  of  the 
our  friend  to  uke  a  walk  into  the  country.  He  |  poem,  which  the  said  writer  had  ascribed  to 
consented,  and  we  bent  our  way  to  Simson's  nursery,  him  and  had  had  printed  with  his  initials, 
a  place  about  half-way  between  Dublin  and  the  The  letter  containing  the  evidence  is  signed 
«-»-      During  our  stroll^  Wolfe  ^was  unusually    ^^^j^  p^^^^^  p^^,  of  Taghsaxon.  DioceSi  of 


do  not  in  any  wise  detract  from  the  value  of 
the  other  part  of  their  testimony,  but  rather 
tend  to  confirm  it  by  manifesting  the  absence 
of  collusion. 

Besides  O'Sullivan's  evidence,  as  given  by 
himself  directly  and  at  first  hand  in  the  letter 
just  quoted,  there  exists,  in  a  letter  bv  Sir 
WiUiam  Hamilton  to  A.  De  Morgan,  dated 
a  September,  1852,  a  report  of  CSollivan's 
testimony  as  given  by  him  to  the  writes. 
Sir  William  says  : — 

'*Dr.  Samuel  O'Sullivan,  who  knew  a  vast  deal 
about  Irish  life  and  society  in  a  now  past  genera- 
tion, often  told  me  that  he  was  with  Wolfe  during 
a  part  of  the  time  when  poetical  atilatus  was  upon 
him  in  connection  with  the  subject  of  the  ode." 

See  'Life  of  Sir  W.  Hamilton,'  by  R  P. 
Graves,  Dublin  University  Press  Series, 
vol.  iii.  p.  411. 

IV.  The  Rev.  Mark  Perrin^s  evidence.— This 
testimony,  given  in  a  letter,  is  of  two  kinds : 


Rock.  During  our  stroll  Wolfe  was 
meditative  and  silent,  and  I  remember  having  been 
provoked  a  little  by  meeting  with  no  response  or 
sympathy  to  my  frequent  bursts  of  admiration 
about  the  country  and  the  scenery,  in  which  on  other 
occasions  he  used  so  cordially  to  join.  But  he 
atoned  for  his  appai%nt  dulness  and  insensibility 
on  his  return,  when  he  repeated  for  me  the  hrst  and 
last  verses  of  his  beautiful  ode.  I  expressed  a 
rapturous  approbation,  with  which  he  seemed 
greatly  pleased.  My  brother  (Rev.  Mortimer 
O'Sullivan)  was  present  when  this  took  place,  and 
was  also  greatly  delighted.  These  were  the  only 
verses  which  our  dear  friend  at  first  contemplated : 
but  moved,  as  he  said,  by  my  approbation,  his  mind 
worked  on  the  subject  after  he  left  me,  and  in  the 
morning  he  came  over  to  me  with  the  other  verses 
by  which  the  poem  was  completed.'' 

In  this  letter — quoted  in  a  note  on  p.  23  of 
the  eighth  edition  of  Wolfe's  '  Remains,'  1842 
—the  Rev.  S.  O'Sullivan  distinctly  states  from 
his  own  personal  knowledge  that  the  ode  was 
written  by  Wolfe ;  that  it  at  first  consisted 
of  only  two  stanzas ;  and  that  its  completion 
was  due  to  the  approbation  these  received  on 
recital.  In  the  fundamental  points  here 
mentioned  all  three  witnesses  hitherto  ad- 
duced perfectly  a^ree ;  the  non-essential  points 
on  which  they  differ,  namely,  the  number  of 
the  parties  whose  admiration  led  the  poet  to 
finisn  his  task,  and  the  length  of  time  inter- 
vening between  its  beginning  and  end,  may 
well  be  accounted  for  by  iorget.tM\iieaa  ox  ^ 


Tuam,  Blackrock,  Dublin,  1877,  and  it  ap- 
peared in  the  Dublin  DaUy  Expreu^  Friday. 
22  August,  1879.  The  editor  of  the  joamal 
btates  at  the  top  of  the  letter  that  it  was 
''  written  by  request  for  the  New  Zeakmd 
Tablet  a  few  weeks  before  the  death  of  the 
writer  in  March,  1877." 
Mr.  Perrin's  statement  is  as  follows  :— 
*'One  morning  in  the  year  1816  I  was  with  my 
friend  Samuel  O'SuUivan  at  his  rooms,  Ho.  26 
Trinity  College,  when  he  produced  a  written  paper, 
saving,  *Uere  are  some  pretty  verses  of  Cfharles 
Wolfe's.  He  was  here  a  few  evenings  sinoe,  and  1 
read  to  him  from  the  "  Edinburgh  Annual  Register" 
a  graphic  account  of  the  burial  of  Sir  John  Moore, 
which  we  both  agreed  must  have  been  written  by 
Walter  Scott.  Wolfe  was  greatlv  moved,  and  re- 
inained  for  a  good  while  silent  and  thoughtful.  Hii 
mood  was  altogether  changed  from  that  bojdsh  tone 
and  flow  of  spirits  which  make  his  presence  so 
delightful  wherever  he  is.  At  last  he  brightened 
again  and  said,  *'I  have  been  trying  to  f^^  i 
rhythmical  colouring  to  that  beautitul  picture. 
Just  hear  how  it  runs";  and  he  poured  forth 
rich  fragments  of  these  verses  which  he  presented 
to  me  on  the  following  day  in  their  perfect  form.' 
O'Sullivan  allowed  me  to  take  a  copy,  which  in  the 
^ipring  of  the  following  vear,  when  I  served  the 
curacy  of  Rathfriland  in  the  oountv  of  Down,  1  gave 
to  Mr.  Steward,  the  editor  of  the  Newry  TeU^n^k 
tind  he  published  the  verses  in  his  paper  with  the 
author's  mitials  'C.  W.'  subsoribed.  Not  a  Httie 
^Y&\ivaVMd  was  Wolfe    when  Dr.  Davenport,  his 


weu  oe  accouniea  lor  oy  ior>^o\*i.umw»  \jy  ei  \  ^\^\ival«d  was  Wolfe    when  Dr.  Davenport,  me 
difference  in  the  sense  of.seli-inipotXAiice)  ^xi^X  QCi>^<»«b\^iv^T^^^^^\)x^  jonnsissd 


9»8.viLjui«i«5.i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


463 


ohallensed  him  by  those  letters  to  be  the  author. 
He  looked  upon  the  thing  as  an  '  unconsidered 
trifle/  not  worthy  to  be  flaunted  before  the  public 
eye." 

The  reader  is  asked  to  notice  that  the  direct 
testimony  of  the  Rev.  Mark  Perrin  as  derived 
from  his  own  personal  experience  begins 
here  :— 

"When  I  acknowledged  that  I  had  been  the 
means  of  bringing  him  out  in  that  wav  he  was  dis- 
pleased. *  You  should  not.'  he  said,  *  have  put  my 
initials  to  those  verses  without  knowing  whether  I 
should  like  my  name  to  be  ideniified  with  them.' 
I  own  it  was  an  unpardonable  liberty  which  1  had 
taken,  and  cannot  even  now  justify  it.  But  seeing 
that  by  that  happy  'accident'  I  was  the  means  of 
disclosing  a  flower  which  might  else  have  remained 
for  ever  unseen,  the  oflence  will  be  as  readily  con- 
doned bv  readers  of  the  present  day  as  it  was 
eirdoned  by  him  who  had  such  cause  to  be  ofiended. 
is  wrath  did  not  last  long.  Indeed,  whatever  his 
provocation  may  have  been,  I  believe  he  never  let 
the  sun  go  down  upon  that  troublesome  passion. 
And  finally,  when  Maturin,  the  author  of  'Bertram,' 
then  in  the  sunshine  of  his  popularity,  proclaimed 
at  the  Dublin  Library  his  admiration  of  his  verses, 
he  became  quite  reconciled  to  the  exposure." 

In  conclusion,  it  may  be  remarked  that  the 
foregoing  evidence  satisfactorily  proves  that 
the  ode  in  question  was  written  by  Wolfe, 
and  that  he  wrote  it  under  circumstances 
clearly  showing  the  casual  and  thoroughly 
spontaneous  character  of  its  production.  That 
tnis  course  was  habitual  with  him  the  follow- 
ing quotations  from  his  'Remains,'  edited 
by  Archdeacon  Russell,  a  college  friend,  will 
suffice  to  show  : — 

"  He  rWolfel  was  so  much  struck  by  the  grand 
national  Spanish  air  '  Viva  el  Rey  Fernando '  the 
first  time  he  heard  it  played  by  a  friend,  that  he 
immediatelv  commenced  sindng  it  over  and  over 
again  until  he  produced  an  knglish  song  admirably 
suited  to  the  tune."— P.  36,  fourth  edition. 
Regarding  his  exquisite  song  to  the  air 
*  Gramacnree,' 

'*  He  was  asked  whether  he  had  any  real  incident 
in  view  or  had  witnessed  anv  immediate  occurrence 
which  might  have  prompted  these  lines.  His  reply 
was,  '  He  had  not ;  but  that  he  had  sung  the  air 
over  and  over  till  be  burst  into  a  flood  of  tears,  in 
which  mood  he  composed  the  words.'"— P.  43. 

As  respects  his  impulsive  mental  habits,  we 
are  told  ; — 

•*  Whenever  in  the  company  of  his  friends  any- 
thing occurred  in  his  reading,  or  to  his  meniorv, 
which  powerfully  afiected  his  imagination,  he  usually 
started  from  his  seat,  flung  aside  his  chair,  and 
paced  about  the  room,  giving  vent  to  his  admira- 
tion in  repeated  exclamations  of  delight  and  in 
geAtures  ofthe  most  animated  rapture."— P.  35. 

In  proof  of  Wolfe's  Shakespearean  disregard 
for  ms  literary  fame  Russefl  tells  us  :— 

**  His  native  modesty  and  the  fastidious  jud£[ment 
which  be  exercised  over  all  his  own  compositions 
led  him  often  to  undervalue  what  even  his  most 


judicious  friends  approved  and  admired It  [the 

Moore  ode]  remained  for  a  long  time  unclaimed 
and  other  poems  in  the  meantime  appeared,  falsely 
purporting  to  be  written  by  the  same  unknown 
hand,  which  the  author  would  not  take  the  pains 
to  disavow."— Pp.  16,  26. 

Probably  Wolfe's  indifference,  like  Spinoza's 
mildness,  originated  largely  from  the  insidious 
languor  of  consumption.  C  C.  DovB. 

Birkdale. 

[At  2««»  S.  i.  158  Dr.  W.  J.  FitzPatrick  gave  a 
transcript  of  the  poem  from  Currick's  Morning 
Post  for  1815  (no  day  or  month  mentioned),  in 
which  it  was  signed  with  the  initials  "  W.  C." 
Wolfe's  own  letter  was  also  transcribed  from  the 
original,  the  last  paragraph  being  given  by  Db. 
FitzPatrick  thus:  *'I  again  say,  remember  Con- 
stantia's  character  is  to  l^  drawn  among  the  rest. 
You  will  pardon  me  for  being  particular  about  any 
message  from  (hat  quarter."  Tne  extract  from  the 
*EdinDurgh  Annual  Register'  was  printed  8**»  S. 
viii.  145.  See  also  8*»»  S.  viii.  178,  235,  263,  331,  418. 
The  *  D.N.B.'  in  its  account  of  Wolfe  (vol.  Ixii. 
p.  295)  says  that  the  lines  originally  appeared  in 
the  Neioru  Telegraph  of  19  April,  1817 ;  but  1815 
was  the  date  given  at  the  first  reference  by  Dr. 
FitzPatrick,  who  stated  that  he  referred  to  his 
file  of  Currick's  Morning  Post  for  that  year  and 
*'  found  the  poem  after  a  little  delay."] 


ECCLESIASTICAL  **  PECULIARS." 
(Concliided  from p,  4^,) 

I  MAY  proceed  to  set  down  some  parti- 
culars, gleaned  from  many  sources,  concern- 
ing a  few  of  the  peculiars,  interesting  either 
in  themselves  or  as  throwing  light  on  the 
system  and  its  working. 

Battle, — Early  in  the  twelfth  century  the 
abbot  and  monks,  having  built  a  parish 
church,  obtained  from  the  Bishop  of  Chi- 
chester a  confirmation : — 

**ut  sicut  Ecclesia  S.  Martini  de  Bello  [Battle 
Abbey],  et  Capella  quoque  S**  Marias  de  eJUiem  vill 
libera  et  auieta  sit  in  perpetuum  de  omnibus  con- 
suetudinibus  et  forisfacturis  episcopalibus Pres- 
byter vero  illius  capellse  synodum  ad  ei)iscopalia 
tan  turn  prsecopta  audienda  adeat,  nee  ibidem  pro 
aliqua  culpa  judicium  subeat." 

In  the  year  1171  Walter,  a  deacon,  being 
chosen  by  the  monastic  body  to  be  "  capel- 
lanus "  of  the  church,  was  presented  to  the 

bishop  **ex  jure  patronatiis k  quo  persona- 

tum  ecclesiee  curamque  animarum  suscepit.'' 
What  would  now  be  called  institution,  one 
thinks:  yet  it  is  curious  to  read  in  'Clergy- 
man's Law '  (by  W.  Watson,  1701)  that 
*' though  the  Bishop    of   Chichester  doth    admit 

the  Dean  of  Battel and  doth  commit  to  him  the 

cure  and  jurisdiction  of  that  church,  vet  the  Patron 
thereof  is  to  institute  and  induct  the  Dean  ;  and  the 
Patrons  accordingly  have  given  the  Deans  Institu- 
tion and  Induction  for  some  hundreds  of  years." 

So  jealously  through  the  centucvas.  dvi  Skv^ 
patrons,  ^T^^  motiV^  ^\i'\\}cv«[l\vJ'aiK^^^R5»:K^ 


464 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      i9^  s.  vn.  juh.  is.  iwl 


their  privilege,  and  so  closely  did  the  bishops 
clutch  their  little  scrap  of  authority.  But, 
howsoever  it  may  have  been  as  to  this  jDoint, 
it  is  certain  that  the  dean  was  always  inde- 
pendent of  the  bishop.  As  in  the  case  of 
Ha  warden  before  mentioned,  he  held  his  own 
coui-t ;  he  *'invit€ci"  the  bishop  for  a  confir- 
mation ;  and,  as  I  am  informed  by  the  present 
dean,  the  late  Bishop  Dnrnford  was  the  first 
who  held  a  confirmation  at  Battle  without 
signing   his  name,  in   a  book  kept  for  the 

Eur  pose,  to  the  ackuowledgaQeDt  that  be  carae 
y  invitation,  claiming  no  rifiht  to  be  there. 
It  raav  be  added,  aa  a  little  point  of  interest, 
that  trie  title  of  dean  is  at  least  as  old  as  the 
fifteenth  century, a  monumental  brass  record- 
ing** Decanus  gratus  Robert  us  Ulere  voeatus." 
Backing  and  Hadleigk. —'Both  deans  seem 
to  have  been  practically  independent,  having 
also  a  q  u  asi  -  e  pi  scopal  j  u  risd  i  c  t ion  o  ve  r  cer  tai  n 
neijifhbouring  parishes.  They  were  indeed 
ultimately  subject  to  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury  ;  but  as  I  learn  from  a  *  History 
of  Hadleigh/  by  the  Bev.  Hugh  Pigott,  "it 
was  not  thought  etiquette  for  the  arch- 
bishops to  visit.''  However,  the  parish  book 
of  Had  leigh  records  that  in  1761  Archbishop 
Seeker  held  a  visitatioD  and  confirmation, 
first  at  Booking  and  two  days  afterwards  at 
Hadieigh ;  and,  says  the  Hadleigh  dean, 
**Dr.  bayer.  Hector  of  Booking  and  joint 
Dean  or  Uommissary  with  me  for  that  place, 
being  absent  on  the  Continent,  I  attended 
at  Hocking  in  his  place. ''  There  is  some  little 
intere^^t  in  the  fraternity  of  these  twin 
deaneries. 

M-iddithamj  Yorkshire*— This  deanery  was 
a  pious  foundation  of  Crook-back  Bichard. 
In  1478,  at  the  instance  of  the  Duke  of 
Gloucester,  Ed  ward  IV.  authorized  the  foun- 
dation of  ^^  quoddam  collegium  apud  Middle- 
h  am  de  Decano  e  t  sex  Ca  pel  Ian  is,"  Jr  c.  Eic  hard, 
however,  seems  not  to  have  carried  out  his 
purpose  of  endowment^  after  his  death  the 
'^  college^'  came  to  nothingj  but  the  title  was 
retainednntil  1 8  50, 

Wolverham^Hon. — Collegiate  church,  with 
its  dean^  having  a  large  number  of  depend- 
ent chapel ries,  Edward  IV.  annexed  the 
deanery  to  that  of  Windsor ;  and  so,  with 
some  little  change  in  the  time  of  Edward  VL 
and  Mary,  the  deanH  of  Windsor  were  deans 
of  Wolverhampton,  till  the  title  was  abolished 
in  1846,  up  to  which  time  there  were  also 
aeven  titular  canons,  who,  however,  seem  to 
have  had  no  practical  connexion  with  the 
place.  Shaw  (*  History  of  {Staffordshire  *) 
says  of  it :  "A  Royal  Peculiar,  subject  to  no 
earthly  power  [\]  but  the  King  of  England, 
And  under  it  to  the  perpetual  v\^\ta.l\oii  ol 


the  Keeper  of  the  Great  Seal  for  the  Km© 
being/'  It  may  be  presumed  that  the  Lord 
Chancellor  regularly  appointed  a  commissary 
for  visitation, 

Bibury,  Gloucestershire,  with  jurisdiction 
over  Aides  worth,  Barnsley,  and  Winson. 
It  had  been  a  peculiar  belonging  to  Oaney 
Abbeyt  the  rights  of  which  were  taken  over 
by  the  impropriator,  Eudder,  *  History  of 
Gloucestershire,'  1779,  says  :— 

"  What  the  rigbta  wer«  has  been  disputed  cvw 
ain«?e  the  foundation  of  the  8ee  ol  Gloucester ;  but 
it  Wftjs  agreed  between  Dr.  Benaoa,  lat«  Eiabop  of 
Gloucester,  and  Mrs.  Wameford,  then  Lady  of  the 
Manor,  to  Uy  all  evitieuce  relating  to  it  before  tlie 
I^V9,%\  of  A  relies,  and  abide  by  hi»  award ;  which 
award  was  made  iu  May,  174L  But  the  aKreemeoi 
becmme  void  at  the  death  af  that  Prelate  ;  and  the 
matters  iti  controversy  are  in  the  sarae  state  u 
before-  The  Lord  of  the  Manor  doth  not  allow  to 
the  BiHhop  a  right  of  vtsitatioD :  lie  appointi  liii 
owQ  Official  and  Chaooellor/' 
So  no  doubt  the  haggle  went  on  bo  the 
end— the  biahop  vainly  "  claiming  "  (as  above 
mentioned)  a  right  of  jurisdiction. 

D<yrdieRterf  Oxon.— The  abbey  held  juris- 
diction over  a  group  of  nearly  twelve  pansbes, 
mainly  skirting  the  Thatne%^  from  Toot 
Baldou.  N.W„  to  Nettlebed,  S.E.,  which  right 
waa  inherited  by  the  impropriators.  I  hav6 
been  enabled  to  inapect  the  visitation  book, 
which  19  in  the  Bodleian  Library.  The  first 
record  which  I  make  out  from  the  villainooa 
3cri veneris'  handwriting  of  the  period  is 
in  1581  :— 

**  Aeta  in  EcelesiA  PartMshialt  de  Dorchoatefi  coram 
venerabili  [the  "  worshipfur^?]  viro  Thoma  Glaaier 
Legiim  Doct.  [>ecuhari^  et  exempte  Jurisdictionit  de 
Dorchester  t)er  Edmund um  Fetti place  [holder  of 
the  abbey]  legitime  conitituto.'^ 

For  the  year  1589  the  entry  ia  beaded 
*^  Yifiitacio  Ep^alis  "  (episcopaliei) ;  bnt  an  ifc 
was  held  **  coram  V.  Viro  J.  Drewrie^  LL.DV 
the  entry  must  be  a  slip  of  the  registrar  To 
the  visitation  were  summoned  the  clergy 
and  churchwardenH  (cmtode*)  of  the  several 
parishes  ;  also  from  each  parif h,  at  least  in 
the  earlier  years,  two  or  three  "'juratt,'*  by 
which  are  meaot^  I  believe,  "jurymen  "  sworn 
to  give  testimony  of  knowiedge  as  to  fact  in 
respect  of  any  questions  which  might  arbe 
as  to  their  own  place  or  neighbourhoods 
Among  the  act«  I  find,  in  1721,  "Official 
Judicis  promotum  "  against  Sarah  Orpwc»od» 
the  mot  tier  of  a  ba^e-bom  child.  She  wu 
adjudged  to  do  public  penance  in  Clifton 
(Hampden)  Church*  and  to  bring  the  oer* 
tificate  thereof  (aigncKi,  no  doubt,  by  the 
clergyman  and  churchwardens)  to  the  next 
** curia"  or  court-leet.  In  1741  similar  pro- 
ceedings were  taken  against  Mary  Wallis. 
"S^xTi^  summoned  and  not  appearing^  she  was 


9»8.vn.jnN«i6,i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


465 


fBtcommunicated*  By  this  time,  it  may  bs, 
«uch  promotiDH  of  the  office  o!  judge  drew 
near  to  be  a  brHtumfulmen,  so  that  eh©  might 
defy  both  eummona  and  excomrauiiicatioD. 
When  we  recall  the  opeu,  unblushing  vice  of 
kiDga  and  great  oneis,  we  may  even  marvel 
that  men  tolerated  such  persecution  of 
humbler  folk.  The  later  visitations  seem  to 
bave  been  mainly  occupied  with  squabbles 
over  pew  rights.  The  last  recorded  court 
was  in  1836,  before  Geo,  Scobell,  D-D.,  official 
Masharn^  York  a  hi  re.— I  extract  the  follow- 
ing from  Whitaker*!i  '  Yorkshire '  :— 

'*  Roger  dt  Molbrai  m  the  year  1146  founded  a 
Priory  of  Black  Uaiiorja  at  New  burgh,  on  which  he 
bestowed  the  churLh«s  of  Mishaim  and  Kirk  by 
Mdesa»rt,....-With  the  monka  of  New  burgh,  how- 
ever^ these  united  churchea  did  not  long  oontinu© ; 
but  there  exista  not  a  veatige  of  the  traitsaution  by 
whioh  thoy  were  alienivted.  All  which  we  kuow  ia 
that  a.n.  1358  the  Reetory  Manor  of  M&fihani-eum 
Kirk  by  Mallard  was  become  the  corps  of  a  Prebend 
iti  the  Cathedral  of  York." 

The  right  of  a  peculiar  was  attached.  It  is 
a  sample  both  of  the  generation  and  of  the 
alio  nation  of  peculiars, 

Tenijde^  Comwall^^Thia  little  phantom  of 
a  villaKe  has  a  unique  history.  The  place^ 
onginaTly,  of  a  preceptorj  of  the  Knights 
Templar,  oti  the  suppression  of  the  order  it 
became  a  royal  peculiar,  exempt  from  all 
episcopal  jurisdiction  or  appeal  to  CaDtef- 
bury.  If  we  may  believe  tfie  accounts  given 
of  it,  the  place  was  a  sort  of  southern  Gretna 
Green.  Lysons  ("  Hist,  of  Cornwall ')  reports 
thu8 : — 

**  Halfl  aayathatby  ancient  light  and  prescription 
the  vicar  or  curate  or  parUh  chrk  of  Temple  for 
the  time  being  legally  married  all  pereou*  &pplyiD|| 
to  them,  ac^ordmg  to  \h^  canonB  of  the  Church  ol 
EiaglaiicL  without  hanni  or  licence...^., which  wai 
goad  aacl  valid  in  \^w.^ 

When  Bishop  Alley  denoun<^  the  '^apeluneae 
latronum,''  he  may  well  have  had  thin  place 
in  his  mind.  But  the  authority  is  somewhat 
auspect.  William  Hals  (o^,  17S6)  gathered 
materials  for  a  history  of  Cornwall}  a  part  of 
which  was  publiished  twelve  yeard  after  his 
death.  He  seems  also  to  have  left  many 
notes  not  published^  from  which  the  state- 
ment may  have  come.  But  1  catiDot  find  it 
in  the  published  work*    He  says  this : — 

''  Temple,  lying  in  &  wild  wastrel,  where  *  many 
a  bad  marriage  bargain  is  iltibbered  up/  and  grass 
widows  with  their  tatlmga  put  to  lie  m  and  nune 
here,*' 

Herein  he  partly  quotes  from  Carew  (*  Hist, 
of  Cornwall/  ltJ02),  who  speaks  of 

•*  Temple,  a  plajce  exempt  from  the  Bishopa  iuris* 
diction,  as  one  appertayxiiog  to  thtfi  Teiiijilara,  but 
Bot  10  from  disorder  i  for  it  common  report  com^ 


mucicate  with  truth,  many  a  bad  mariage  bar- 
gaine  is  there  ye  rely  slubbred  up," 

How  much  of  this  evil  report  was  true  it  is 
impossible  to  say,  for  the  village  dwindled 
to  nothing,  the  church  fell  to  inin,  and 
the  registers  were  lost  in  the  eighteenth  cen- 
turj^.  We  must  supjjaie  some  ground  of 
truth  in  it,  thuugh  even  Carew  only  speak* 
of  "common  report/'  Eals's  mention  of 
grass  widows  may  indicate  that  women  Kuilty 
of  unchaste  conduct  Hed  hither  for  refuge^ 
where  they  would  be  safe  from  prosecution  in 
an  archdeacon's  court, 

Th0tmy  Abbmj.—Mt^t  the  suppression  it 
became  a  peculiar  belonging  to  the  Russell 
family.  Prior  to  lft52  the  Duke  of  Bedford 
was  ordinary,  and  absolute  owner  of  church 
and  churchyard.  The  minister  was  his  chap- 
lain, having  (as  is  the  ca^e  to-day)  no  endow- 
ment, but  a  salary.  Neither  he  nor  the  church- 
warden  attended  episcopal  visitations.  The 
duke  appointed  a  commissary  to  hold  court, 
failing  whom  the  minister  might  act  as 
surrogate.  For  nearly  a  century  (1637-1727) 
a  colony  of  Frenchmen  and  Walloons  in  tbe 
place,  being  by  law  required  to  attend  divine 
worship,  also  had  a  minister  appointed  by 
the  Earl  of  Bedford  ;  and  the  Bishop  of  Ely 
in  1839  exercised  one  act  of  authority,  grant- 
ing a  faculty  and  consent  regnlating  divine 
service.  By  an  Order  in  Conncil  (1852)  much 
of  this  exclusive  right  was  done  away,  while 
one  or  two  privileges  were  retained,  accord- 
ing to  which  Thorney  is  still  in  aome  sort  a 
peculiar. 

ifomcAwrcA,  with  liom ford,  Essex,  a  peculiar 
belonging  to  New  College,  Oxford,  Henry  IL 
made  a  grant  of  the  church  and  a  small  estate 
to  the  Hospital  of  SS*  Nicholas  and  Bernard 
in  Savoy  (the  famous  hospice).  The  brethren 
sold  the  property  to  William  of  Wykeham, 
by  whom  it  was  appropriated  to  his  collega 
The  right  of  exemption  was  set  up --it  does 
not  appear  how — and  always  maintained  ; 
and  until  the  abolition  of  peculiars  a  com^ 
missary  conducted  visitations,  even  in  the 
nineteenth  century  citing  all  school  mas  teni, 
apothecanoM,  and  midwive^  to  exhibit  thetr 
licences.  (From  a  forthcoming  history  of 
New  (JoUege  by  Messrs.  Rashdall  and  Rait.) 

It  will  be  seen  finally,  and  perhaps  noted 
as  an  omission,  that  1  have  said  nothing 
about  Westminster  Abbey,  the  Chapels  Royal, 
or  the  independence  of  cathedral  chapters. 
This  did  not  form  part  of  my  purpose.  In 
what  I  have  said  I  have  always  endeavoured 
to  follow  AuthoritieH.  In  conjecture  I  may 
sometimes  have  been  mistaken.  I  may  have 
said  too  little  and  too  much.  But  I  Ka^ 
that  1  h«bV«  teocit^^  wlm^^5Ka3t%<&.  ^^sC^^hb^ 


466 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES-     »«•  s.  vn.  juk.  15,  iqol 


students  in  respect  of  this  old  and  half -for- 
gotten piece  of  history.  G,  B,  Mouirr. 


St.  QEOEaE  and  the  Deaoon,— Some  time 
ago  (B^  S.  vi.  441)  I  gave  reasons  for  believ- 
ing that  the  myth  of  Perseus  and  Andro- 
meda w&H  a  lunar  ecUpga  myth,  which  had 
migrated  from  Babylonia  to  HelJa,s— Perscun 
being  Bel  Merodach,  the  personification  of 
light,  and  Andromeda  thf*  full  moon  about 
to  be  awallovfcetl  up  by  Tiamati  the  black 
power  which  is  approaching. 

There  has  been  another  still  more  remark- 
able translation  :  fmra  Greek  myth  to  Chris- 
tian hagiology.  Like  Ferseusi  St,  Gfeorge 
comes  through  the  air  flying  with  hia  winded 
nandals,  anned  with  a  gold-hilted  falchion^ 
and  slays  the  black  dragon  about  to  devour 
a  white-skinned  matden  who  is  bound  to  a 
rock  on  the  seashore.  The  representation  of 
the  patron  saint  of  England  on  the  noblest 
of  our  coins  varies  from  the  '  Lege  nda  A  urea' 
by  omitting  the  virgin  and  by  mounting 
SL  George  on  horseback. 

That  the  aupreme  sun  *  god  of  ancient 
Babylon  should  have  developed  into  the 
patron  saint  of  modern  England  is  no  less 
remarkable  than  that  we  should  be  able  to 
trace  the  two-headed  eagle  of  throe  Euro- 
pean empires  to  the  two-headed  symbol  of 
the  double  Htttite  empire,  which  we  find 
sculptured  on  the  rocks  of  Oappadocia ;  or 
that  we  may  trace  the  reason  why  we  have 
twelve  pence  in  the  shilling  and  twelve 
figures  on  our  watches  to  the  duodecimal 
notation  of  the  Babylonians^  who  reckoned 
in  mri  and  som^  instead  of  decimally  by  tens 
and  hundreds*  Isaac  Taylor, 

Voltaire's  {Jb0rch,— The  papers  of  the 
Convention  in  the  French  national  archives 
C4>ntain  the  following  curious  letter,  ai^:ned 
by  Wagni^re,  the  mayor,  and  other  inhabit- 
ants  of  Forney- Voltaire,  and  bearing  date 
17  frimaire^  year  2  (7  December,  1793): — 

*' Citizen  preside Ptj  tho  conitntifie  of  Ferney- 
Vciltaire  aandi  the  wiclow^a  mite  to  the  repre- 
wntfttivfta  of  the  Freaoh  nation.  We  hope  th^t 
yoii  will  not  judp«  of  our  Eeal  by  the  meagreneaa 
of  the  plate  which  was  in  the  esE-church  of  thk 
place^  which  the  lat©  VoltAire,  the  founder  of  this 
eoloTiy,  rebuilt  and  dedicated  an  Ditu  ^id^  but 
which  be  did  not  choose  to  eririek  To  supplement 
thin  meagretiea*,  the  Gjtiaeni!  here  have  presented 
LS@9  Uvrea  in  asftimialn,  six  silver  medals  of  various 
aize^t  two  pairB  oi  stiver  buckkn,  and  a  amaU  gold 
Of/in,  which  w©  enclose.  The  cttri  of  Fcmey  has 
volnntarily  hiuded  to  U9  his  ordtnation  diploma, 
with  a  reqaeat  to  bam  it,  which  we  did  two  daya  ago 
in  ottr  brai*e  ^ans  cufoffe  club.  We  have  closed  the 
ex -church  atid  removed  the  iiroanea,  ftt.c.  Tjove  ol 
oouatr^^  submiaiioa  to  the  deGr«««  ol  the  c«ifi«- 


aentativefi  of  the  peot^le  and  to  morality— behold 
the  reUipou  which  will  be  preached  in  the  iKi^lony 
foaudeci  by  hitii  who  was  oae  of  the  first  to  aay,— 
Noa  pti^trea  ne  aont  paa  ce  qu'un  vain  peuple  pcnu; ; 
Notre  crMulit^  fait  leur  «euJe  pui^aaooe. 
Vive  la  natioD  !  Vive  la  r^publlque  I  Vive  la  mon- 

What  would  Voltaire  have  thought  coald 
he  have  foreseen  thi^  da»ec ration  of  the 
church  in  which  he  once  preached  t 

J.  G,  Alger. 

Paris, 

Michael  Bhitcs  ahd  BtjRHs,— The  oft- 
quated  linoa  of  Burns  in  his  *  Address  to  a 

Mouae,* 

Tho  best-laid  schemes  o*  mice  and  Dieti 
(^ang  aft  a-gtey, 

bear  a  raaemblance  to  those  of  Michael  Bmce 
in  '  The  Mudml,'  a  minor  epic  fragment  :— 

But  evil  fort  Que  had  decreed 

(The  foe  of  mioe  as  well  aa  mou) 
The  royal  mooae  at  lant  ahould  bleed  ; 

Bbould  faU--ne'er  to  arise  again. 

As  the  poeri]'!  of  Bruce,  the  author  of  the 
*Ode  to  the  Cucko*^  and  *  Elegy  written  in 
Spring'  — two  of  the  finest  lyrics  in  tht 
Engliah  language — wtre  published  after  hin 
death  in  1770  (long  before  those  of  BumsX 
the  latter  inay  fmve  taken  the  idea  from 
reading  them.  A.  O,  Rkid. 

Auchterarder. 

A  Female  Workee  in  Ieon.  —  It  seems 
worth  recording  that  in  the  Suiidtf^s  Jcntmai 
for  24  April  U  an  advertisement  by  Mra 
Btarkie  Qardneri  who,  giving  her  a4JcireiS  in 
London,  informs  the  public  tnat^  assisted  by  a 
talented  staff  (male  or  female  not  mentioned), 
nhe  ia  prepared  to  carry  out  all  kinds  of 
"hand-nammered"  metal  work.  What  will 
ladies  fly  at  next  T  Haeay  Hems. 

Fair  Park,  Exeter. 

Simon  Buhtok,  M,D.,  died  1744.  —  The 
statement  in  the  life  of  this  phymcian  in 
the  *  Diet.  Nat.  Biog./  vol.  viii-  p,  16^  that^  he 
**  was  educated  at  Rugby  and  at  New 
College,  Oxford,"  is  true,  but  incomplete. 
Be  went  to  Rugby  Bchool  in  1696,  but  Left  in 
or  before  1702,  when  he  beeame  a  W"  inch  ester 
scholar,  having  been  elected  as  founders 
kin.  Similarly,  his  brother  John  Burton, 
who  waa  head  master  of  Winchester  17S4- 
1766,  went  to  school  first  at  Rugby  (l€diS) 
and  then  at  Winchester  (1705),  where  he  alto 
Mas  scholar  as  founder's  kin.  The  brothers 
claimed  kinship  with  William  of  Wykeham 
through  their  mother  Judith  Bohun  or  Bonn. 
TU^lc  uncle  Ralph  Bohun,  author  of  'A 
\>SafisQi^v^&  ^^^^^^'u^%^^<^t\i|^aiid  Proper^ 


\- 


9*  8.  Vn.  Juke  15. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


467 


ties    of    Wind '   (Oxford,    1671)    and    a 

prebendary    of    Salisbury  (1701X   obtained 
recognition  of  his  own  claim  in  1666. 

H.C. 

A  Ladle.— An  old  and  not  yet  obsolete 
mode  of  taking  a  collection  in  a  Scotch 
church  is  by  means  of  a  ladle— a  small 
wooden  box  at  the  end  of  a  straight  wooden 
shaft,  about  four  and  a  half  feet  long,  the 
top  of  the  box  being  sufficiently  open  to 
receive  contributions  of  money.  For  all 
special  collections  this  was  the  usual  mode 
in  the  chief  churches  of  Edinburgh  when  I 
was  a  boy  at  school  there,  fifty  years  ago;  but 
it  has  gradually  gone  out  of  fashion,  and  is 
not  often  to  be  seen  nowadays. 

For  ordinary  Sunday  collections  the  general 
custom  has  been  to  have  a  metal  plate  or 
basin  on  a  small  table  at  the  church  entrance, 
superintended  by  an  elder— a  mode  which 
was  often  called  the  hrod.  When  ladles  are 
used  they  are  handed  round  the  congregation 
by  elders,  after  the  sermon  or  after  the  last 
psalm,  and  the  common  Scotch  phrase  to 
'*lift"  the  collection  may  have  come  from 
this  custom. 

The  recently  published  section,  L— Lap,  of 
the  'Oxford  English  Dictionary'  does  not 
mention  this  sense  of  tha  word  "ladle." 

W.  S. 

Samplers. — It  may  be  well  to  record  in 
'  N.  «fe  Q.'  that  an  early  instance  of  the  word 
"sampler"  occurs  in  Richard  Johnson's 
•  Crowne-Garland  of  Gk)ulden  Roses,'  1612. 
It  is  in  the  heading  of  a  poem  entitled  **A 
Short  and  Sweet  Sonnet  made  by  one  of  the 
maidens  of  honor  of  Queene  Elizabeth,  which 
she  sowed  uppon  a  sampler  in  red  silke" 
(Percy  Society  reprint,  p.  32).  The  late  Miss 
Peacock  contributed  a  paper  on  samplers  to 
the  Antiquary  in  1898,  and  another  to  the 
Architectural  Heinew  in  1900.  There  is  also 
a  paper  on  the  same  subject  by  Mr.  H.  A. 
Lediard,  M.D.,  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal 
Archaeological  Institute  for  September,  1900. 

ASTARTE. 

Scottish  Death  Superstition.  —  If  the 
body  be  still  warm  when  put  in  the  coffin 
another  death  will  occur  in  the  same  family 
within  the  year.  A  friend  living  in  Devon- 
shire informs  me  that  on  the  occasion  of  a 
death  taking  place  in  a  house  where  she  was 
present  lately,  and  where  the  body  had  to 
be  put  in  the  coffin  as  soon  as  possible,  a 
Scotch  servant  of  the  deceased  was  much 
alarmed,  and  remonstrated,  giving  this  super- 
stition as  a  reason.  I  could  not  find  out  what 
part  of  Scotland  the  old  servant  came  from. 

Ibaou^ 


Wb  must  requeet  correspondents  desirinf?  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  qneries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  maybe  addressed  to  them 
direct.  

Motto  on  Sundial.— Could  you  kindly 
give  me  any  information  concerning  the 
following  matter?  In  this  old  hotel  during 
restoration  an  ancient  sundial  has  been 
discovered  on  the  ceiling  of  one  of  the 
rooms,  above  a  window  facing  south.  The 
inscription,  which  is  somewhat  obliterated, 
seems  to  read  thus :  ...iem  avtem  horam  et 
viRAM.  The  last  word  may  be  Vinam,  Tllam^ 
or  niium.  I  am  told  this  is  not  the  "  Carpe 
diem"  quotation  from  Horace.  Representa- 
tions of  rays  of  sunlight  emerge  from  the 
dial.  There  is  an  idea  here  that  this  sundial 
was  put  up  by  a  Bishop  of  Winchester,  but  I 
cannot  verify  this  statement. 

Thomas  Bubb. 

Bush  Hotel,  Famham,  Surrey. 

[We  fail  to  find  any  motto  corresponding  to  that 
you  send  in  the  enlarfred  edition  of  Mrs.  Catty's 
*Book  of  Sundials.*  We  cannot  reproduce  your 
design.] 

Habimer  -  Ponds  :  Fresh-water  Mussels 
AND  Pearls. — I  find  that  some  of  the  pic- 
turesque Sussex  hammer- ponds  abound  with 
large  beautiful  fresh-water  mussels,  which 
may  possibly  contain  pearls.  I  should  grate- 
fully appreciate  the  favour  of  references — 

1.  As  to  the  best  up-to-date  litera- 
ture and  information  anent  these  Sussex 
artificial  hammer-ponds,  formerly  used  to 
work  the  wheels  connected  with  the  machi- 
nery to  set  in  motion  the  forge  hammers,  or 
to  work  the  furnace  bellows  for  the  iron 
industry. 

2.  As  to  the  chief  inland  waters,  in  Sussex 
and  elsewhere,  where  these  largo  fresh- water 
mussels  are  discovered. 

3.  As  to  whether  any  of  these  fresh- water 
mussels  contain  pearls. 

4.  As  to  foreign  fresh-water  inland  pearl 
farms,  like  those  of  China,  Siam,  <fec. 

J.  Lawrence  Hamilton,  M.R.C.S. 

Napoleon  and  a  Coat  of  Mail.— I  should 
be  grateful  if  any  of  your  readers  could  tell 
me  in  what  history  or  memoir  I  could  find 
the  following  story  about  Napoleon  the 
Qreat.  Napoleon  ordered  a  coat  of  mail  to 
be  made  for  him,  to  wear  underneath  his 
tunic,  as  he  was  afraid  of  being  assassinated. 
When  the  armourer  brought  the  coat  Napo- 
leon made  him  put  it  on,  and,  standing  &  {•^^ 
pacea  off,  «.Viot  %\.  ^<5i  xaswcL  Vcrawv  ^w«sq^ 


468 


NOTES  AND  QUEEIES.     p*8.viljit!i»i6,mw. 


directtonji,  until  he  had  fally  satisfied  him- 
8©lf  that  the  armour  was  bullet  proof.  The 
man  was  quite  unhurt.  Ember. 

DowAGKE  Pkeeess.  —  I  wisH  to  know 
whether  the  present  cuatom  hy  which  a 
dowager  peeress  retaiui  her  title  on  marry- 
ing a  coromoner  or  a  peer  of  lower  rank  than 
that  of  her  deceased  husband  is  a  recent  one 
or  of  Jong  standing.  Are  there  many  excep- 
tions o£  late  yeara  J  There  are,  1  believa 
caaes  in  which  the  widows  of  baroneta  and 
knights  have  retained  their  title  on  marry- 
ing, but  1  fancy  that  these  have  been 
comparatively  few.  E, 

Leahbeater  MS.— *An  Answer  to  the  Dla- 
senters'  Pleas  for  Separation,  or  an  abstract 
on  the  abridgement  of  the  London  Cases/ 
is  the  title  of  a  voiume  of  MS.  now  in 
jny  possession.  It  is  beautif nlly  written,  and 
contains  over  100  pages  (24 mo) ;  on  the  fiy- 
leaf  h  written,  "  £  Libria  Johan*  Lead  beater, 
1752."  The  Leadi>eAters  were  Lancashire 
people.  Was  thia  book  ever  printed,  and 
who  was  the  author  i       Heisry  Fibhwick. 

Sir  Richard  Verney.— Can  any  reader 
send  me  the  date  of  the  death  of  that  Sir 
Hie  hard  Verney,  Knt.,  o^  Com  p  ton  Murdac, 
who  was  living  in  1614^  and  a  trust^se  in  that 
year  of  Hugby  School  ?         A,  T.  Miceell. 

Rugby. 

John  Schorr,  Citizen  and  Salter.— Is  any- 
thing known  of  John  Scott^  citizen  and 
Salter  of  Liondon,  born  about  1644 1  tie  was 
a  brother  of  Daniel  Scott,  the  father  of 
Dr.  Daniel  Bcott,  LL.D.  He  held  lands 
called  '*  Caines "  in  Great  Hallingbury,  go. 
Essex  I  Dauii^. 

*■  Qentuer,**—  Keeeutly  I  saw  it  stated,  an 
the  opinion  of  a  well-known  poet  and  critic, 
that  the  following  couplet  ot  Tennyson  was 
the  ^*  most  euphonious  within  the  range  of 
English  poetry  :  — 

Musid  thftt  K^ntlier  ot\  the  spirit  Itea 
Than  tir'd  eyeUda  upon  tir'd  eyes. 

Without  disputing  the  justice  of  this  dictum, 
about  which,  however,  there  may  well  be  a 
difference  of  opinion,  may  I  venture  to  ask 
whether  the  liue»  are  as  grammatical  a^  they 
are  said  to  be  harmonious  ?  Is  there  any 
precedent  in  the  Englisfi  language  for  the 
use  of  the  form  -^  gentlier  '^  as  a  comparative 
adverb  I  J ohk  Hutchinson. 

Middle  Temple  Library. 

Philuppo. — We    have   in    the   county  of 

Noriolk   a   family  called    PbillippOy  rather 

large  in  ex  ten  t,  and  having  the  nght  t^be&v 


arms.    They  came  to  England  after  the  revo 

cation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes.  It  is  believed 
that  they  originated  from  the  Mooi^  of  Spaia. 
What  is  the  meaning  of  this  name  T  Does  tbe 
root  kippo  mention^  in  *  Words  and  Places' 
bear  upon  the  etymology  of  thia  name  I 

H,  T*  IL 

Flag  or  East  India  Compaj^y.— Can  yon 
tell  me  why  the  EEist  India  Company's  dag 
during  the  eighteenth  century  happened  to 
bear  exactly  thirt^n  stripes  1  As  the  flig 
of  the  American  colonies  was  originally  tbe 
same  as  that  of  tlie  East  India  Compjauy, 
excepting  that  the  canton  bor©  the  British 
union  of  that  day  instead  of  the  cross  of 
St.  George,  it  ia  reasonable  to  suppose  that 
the  iiag  used  during  the  siege  or  Bostoa 
was  suggested  by  that  of  the  East  India 
Company.  Is  there  any  evideni^  tending  to 
prove  this?  C.  K  D. 

Cape  GuAJiDAFni,— Will  aom©  one  kindly 
inform  me  if  within  the  last  few  years  a 

lighthouse  has  been  erected  at  this  placet 

W*  Cbooke. 
Langton  Houae,  Charlton  Kings. 

Thompsons  of  Yose*— Can  any  of  your 
readers  supply  a  list  of  the  members  of  Par- 
liament for  York  during  the  eighteenth 
century  who  bore  the  name  of  Thompson? 
I  want  abo  the  names  of  the  children  and 
grandchildren  of  Edward  Thompson,  who 
married  Arabella  Dunch,  6  February,  1726. 
He  was  four  times  M,P.  for  York. 

Mrs,  Slack. 

DisS|  Norfolk. 

The  Termination  *'-ms.''— Can  any  learned 
reader  help  me  to  an  etymological  explana- 
tion of  the  termination  'His  in  such  wordu  as 
bronchitiSjgastritist  »S£c.  1  Of  course  everybody 
knows  that  it  means— or,  rather,  is  employed 
to  mean— inflammation,  irritation,  ifec.  But 
why  1  Liddell  and  Scott  have  nothing  bearing 
upon  it,  BO  far  as  I  can  &nd,  nor  c&o  I  there  find 
any  root,  or  other  etymological  factor,  which 
throws  any  light  upon  the  subjects  I  find 
tnys,  t-njTiK6%  and  tra/Aos,  all  connected  with 
tifii,  and  all  bearing  ehadea  of  meaning  more 
or  l^m  t  wis  table  into  that  attributed  to  ~iti$ ; 
but  they  do  not  help  much,  and  I  do  not 
think  that  the  latter  termination  has  any- 
thing to  do  with  it^t-.  It  seems  to  have  been 
adopted  by  Hippocrates,  and  continued  by 
aubscquent  meaical  writers:  but  again  I  aak. 
Why  ?  What  warrant  haa  Hippocrates,  or 
anybody  elite,  for  reading  into  these  four 
letters  the  sen^e  of  inflammation  ?  I  do  not 
say  that  they  had  no  warmnt  for  doing  so ; 
^^\\  \  ^jaek  ^  kikow  is  what  that  w&rraot  was. 


9ikaviLJiTNEi6,i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


469 


I  am  not,  indeed,  in  a  position  to  affirm  that 
Hippocrates  read  that  meaning  into  this 
termination.  I  possess  neither  copy  nor  crib 
of  him ;  but  I  believe  that  modern  medical 
men  do  employ  it  in  that  sense,  and,  as  before 
said,  I  want  to  know  the  reason— the  etymo- 
logical reason— for  their  doing  so. 

Patrick  Maxwell. 
Bath. 

iWe  imagine  that  the  termination  -itis  was  at  first 
onrless  and  adjectival,  and  became  specialized 
later  to  the  meaning  of  inflammation.  Thus,  ffos- 
triiis  would  originally  mean  a  disease  concerned 
with  the  yaoTTip,  The  omission  of  the  substantive 
(v6ffoc)  in  such  a  phrase  occurs  in  classical  Greek 
like  that  of  Sophocles.  See  article  -itis  in  *  H.E.D.'] 

Prisoners  of  War  in  our  Literature. 
— Has  any  list  been  attempted  to  be  made  of 
the  mention  of  prisoners  of  war  in  our  litera- 
ture? One  might  have  thought  that,  writing 
with  the  memory  of  the  great  French  war 
still  active  all  round  them.  Thackerav  and 
Dickens  would  have  touched  the  theme: 
but,  while  the  former  gave  us  an  echo  of 
the  ifiiigrh  in  *The  Newcomes,'  he  did  not 
deal  with  the  prisoners  of  war  who  were  for 
so  long  in  England  at  the  beginning  of  the 
nineteenth  century— man v  of  them  officers 
on  parole  who  lived  with  private  families. 
DicKens,  I  believe,  has  only  one  mention  of 
these  latter,  and  that  a  singular  one,  in 
•Nicholas  Nickleby'  (chap.  xvi.).  Nicholas, 
it  mav  be  recalleo,  had  agreed  to  *^  teach 
French  to  the  little  Kenwigses  for  five 
shillings  a  week,"  and  their  great-uncle,  Mr. 
Lilly  vick,  the  water-rate  collector,  wished  to 
know  of  him  whether  he  considered  French 
"  a  cheerful  language." 

"  '  Yes/  replied  Nicholas,  *  I  should  sajr  it  was, 
certainly.*  'It's  very  much  changed  since  my 
time,  then,'  said  the  collector,  *very  much.* 
'Was  it  a  dismal  one  in  your  time?'  asked 
Nicholas,  scarcely  able  to  repress  a  smile.  *Very,* 
replied  Mr.  Lillvvick,  with  some  vehemence  of 
manner.  *  It 's  the  war  time  that  I  speak  of ;  the 
last  war.  It  may  be  a  cheerful  language.  I  should 
be  sorry  to  contradict  anybody:  but  I  can  only 
say  that  I've  heard  the  Frencn  prisoners,  who 
were  natives,  and  ought  to  know  how  to  speak  it, 
talking  in  such  a  dismal  manner,  that  it  made  one 
mi8enu>le  to  hear  them.  Ay,  that  I  have,  fifty 
times,  sir— fifty  times  ! ' " 

Unfortunately,  this  flow  of  reminiscence 
was  cut  short,  because  "Mr.  Lilly  vick  was 
waxing  so  cross  that  Mrs.  Ken  wigs  thought 
it  expedient  to  motion  to  Nicholas  not  to  say 
anything";  but  I  should  be  glad  of  any 
farther  references  of  the  kind. 

Alfred  F.  Robbins. 

A  Gamb  of  Battlbdorb.— In  a  notice  of 
Mr.  C.  S.  Roundell's  *  Village  School  Header,' 


which  appeared  in  the  Orantham  Journal  a 
week  or  two  ago,  the  critic  gives  his  readers 
a  thrilling  peep  into  a  schoolroom  of  sixty  or 
seventy  years  ago  : — 

"  The  old  schoolroom  was  twelve  feet  square,  and 
the  education  was  reading^  writing,  grammar,  and 
arithmetic,  the  master  presiding  over  the  crammed- 
up  covey  of  boys,  who  learned  what  he  had  to  teach, 
or  the  contrary,  and  left  school  at  the  option  of 
their  parents.  The  master,  in  the  writer's  case, 
was  cruel,  and  it  was  a  blow  and  a  word  from  him, 
his  administration  of  punishment  being,  to  the 
refractory,  by  a  thick  cane ;  he  revelled  in  punish- 
ment, but  spared  the  rich  man's  son.  If  the  boy 
had  been  before  a  fractious  one,  he  was  called  up, 
and  asked  which  he  would  have,  Dr.  Sharp  or  Dr. 
Easy.  If  he  chose  the  former  he  would  be  laid 
across  the  master's  knees,  and  a  heavy  wooden 
battledore  applied  to  his  behind,  with  (say)  six 
strokes,  quickly  laid  on — or,  if  he  chose  Dr.  Easy, 
the  application  would  be  more  slowly  supplied,  the 
battleaore,  by  a  Satanic  humour,  being  inscribed 
on  one  side  with  '  Dr.  Sharp,'  upon  the  other  side 
with  *  Dr.  Easy.' 

Drs.  Sharp  and  £asy  are  strangers  to  me  in 
this  connexion.  Was  the  "  Satanic  humour  " 
which  introduced  them  the  private  property 
of  this  particular  pedagogue ;  or  was  the  jest 
common  to  the  profession  ?      St.  S within. 

"  Makau,"  a  Precious  Stone.— On  1  Sept., 
1243,  Edward,  son  of  Odo,  was  ordered  by 

Henry  III.  "quod arestari  faciat  ad  opus 

Regis  lapides  preciosissimos  tam  de  makaus 
quam  de  aliis  lapidibus  pulcris  et  decentibus"; 
and  on  the  5th  of  the  same  month  he  was 
ordered  to  repair  the  cope  called  Capa  Oiuelt^ 

and  to  have  made  for  it  '*unum  monile 

quod  valeat  xxx.  marcas,  cum  quodam  magno 
makau,  vel  alio  lapide  precioso  "  C  Rdles  Gas- 
cons,' 1886,  Nos.  1505,  1508).  What  was  a 
makau  ?    Whence  the  name  ?  Q.  V. 

BrontIb  Topography.— Can  anv  reader 
familiar  with  Brussels  identify  tne  house 
described  by  Charlotte  Bronte  in  her  novel 
'  Villette'  under  the  title  of  '*La  Terrasse"? 
The  house  is  evidentlv  sketched  from  an 
original.  That  the  **  Faubourg  Clotilde"  in 
the  same  novel  was  drawn  from  nature  is 
less  certain ;  but  if  any  suggestion  can  be 
made  as  to  where  it  can,  or  could,  be  found 
I  shall  be  grateful.  H.  E.  W. 

"The  Bible,  Crown,  and  Constitution." 
— I  have  an  engraving  which  bears  to  have 
been  "  published  by  J.  Asperne,  at  the  Bible, 
Crown,  and  Constitution,  Cornhill,  1  June, 
1804."    Has  this  sign  disappeared  ?    W.  S. 

Haydon  Family.  — Will  you  aid  me  in 
unravelling  a  genealogical  tangle?  I  want 
to  find  the  ancestors  of  William  and  John. 


470 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     or*  s.  vn.  jmn  15.  m 


the  Mary  and  John  from  Plymouth,  together 
with  a  company  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  folk 
under  the  leadership  of  the  Rev.  John  Ware- 
ham,  M.A.,  of  Oxford.  Circumstantial  evi- 
dence goes  to  show  that  they  were  brothers, 
and  that  William  was  born  about  1612.  I 
think  they  may  have  been  descended  from 
one  of  the  junior  Haydons  of  Cadhay,  in 
Devon,  of  whom  several  are  mention^  in 
various  books  on  that  county's  families.  I 
find  many  mentionings  of  Haydons  in  the 
parish  registers  of  Hinton  Blewitt,  of  Chew- 
ton,  and  of  Witcombe,  in  Somerset,  during 
the  fifteenth,  sixteenth,  and  seventeentn 
centuries,  as  also  in  the  administrations  of 
the  Probate  Court  of  Blandford,  in  Dorset, 
which  I  think  might  afford  some  infor- 
mation if  they  were  closely  examined,  and 
I  am  willing  to  ^o  to  some  expense  for 
such  an  examination.  But  there  are  also 
many  iunior  Haydons  of  the  Hertford  and 
Norfolk  families  from  whom  these  two  men 
may  have  descended,  so  I  do  not  know  just 
where  to  begin.  I  shall  be  happy  to  corre- 
spond with  any  of  your  readers  who  can  help 
me  in  this  research.  N.  W.  J.  Haydon. 
Brookline  P.O.,  Masa.,  U.S. 


PAINTED  AND  ENGRAVED  PORTRAITS. 
(9^^  S.  vii.  341,  438.) 

Mr.  Mason  has  pleaded  well  for  the  accom- 
plishment of  two  important  works  which  are 
greatly  needed.  I  say  two  because  I  think 
that  Mr.  Mason  has  not  made  it  sufficiently 
clear  that  there  must  be  two  distinct  cata- 
logues—one of  British  painted  portraits  and 
another  of  British  engraved  portraits.  If 
the  two  were  united  there  could  only  be 
confusion. 

I  submit  that  of  these  two  wants  that  of 
the  catalogue  of  painted  portraits  is  the 
more  urgent.  If  we  desire  to  know  where  a 
painted  portrait  is  to  be  found,  there  is  no 
book  from  which  the  information  can  be 
obtained.  A  large  number  of  catalogues  of 
exhibitions  and  private  picture  gallenes  can 
be  consulted,  but  after  all  this  labour  has 
been  gone  through  fruitlessly  the  inquirer 
has  no  proof  that  the  portrait  he  is  seeking 
does  not  exist  in  some  well-known  collection. 
In  the  parallel  case  of  ensraved  portraits 
there  are,  however,  several  valuable  cata- 
logues, made  for  the  purpose  of  giving  the 
information  required,  which  can  be  consulted. 
Although  some  of  these  are  rather  out  of 
date,  they  will  help  the  searcher  very  consi-  l 
der&bly ;  ao  that  in  this  case  'we  ba\e  ^lu^v 


thing,   while  in    respect  to  a  catalogue  o 
painted  portraits  we  nave  nothing. 

If  undertaken  with  spirit  a  fairly  satisfac- 
jbory  catalogue  of  painted  portraits  could  be 
compiled  from  the  catalogues  of  exhibitions 
and  of  private  collections,  which  would  draw 
public  attention  to  the  subject  and  would 
torm  a  good  nucleus  for  a  more  complete 
work,  as  many  possessors  of  portraits  would 
send  particulars  of  omissions  which  they 
could  supply.  This  is  so  evident  that  doubt- 
less several  persons  have  made  a  be^nning 
in  the  compilation  of  such  a  list.  I  have  a 
card  index  of  some  of  these  catalogues,  but 
I  have  been  prevented  from  keeping  it  up 
to  date.  The  matter  has  been  considered  by 
various  local  societies,  and  many  attempts 
have  been  made  to  gather  information  re- 
specting the  portraits  of  county  worthies. 
The  most  important  action  taken  for  the 
compilation  of  an  adequate- catalognie  of 
painted  portraits  is  that  of  Mr.  jLionel 
Oust,  Director  of  the  National  Portrait 
Gallery,  who  has  drawn  up  a  form  for  the 
correct  description  of  portraits  on  a  uniform 
system.  This  form  has  been  published  bv 
Messrs.  Eyre  tk  Spottiswoode,  the  King^ 
printers. 

A  descriptive  catalogue  from  such  filled-in 
forms,  with  the  critical  remarks  of  an  expert^ 
would  be  a  work  of  great  value,  but  it  must 
be  many  years  before  it  can  be  produced. 
In  the  meantime  an  index  to  existing  cata- 
logues and  lists  would  be  a  great  help  to  the 
compiler  of  such  a  work,  and  this  could  be 
produced  within  a  reasonable  period  of  time. 
In  order  to  make  even  this  preliminary  list 
of  any  real  value,  it  would  be  necessary,  when 
all  the  printed  catalogues  had  been  indexed, 
to  obtain  some  lists  of  known  collections 
of  which  no  printed  catalogues  are  forth- 
coming. 

The  production  of  a  catalogue  of  engraved 
portraits  would  be  a  much  more  serious 
undertaking  than  that  of  an  index  of  painted 
portraits,  because  an  amalgamation  of  existing 
catalogues  would  not  be  of  much  use,  and  to 
a  great  extent  the  work  must  be  done  afresh. 
A  fairly  complete  catalogue  would  be  a  work 
of  great  extent.  Upon  its  value  if  pro- 
perljr  carried  out  it  is  needless  to  enlairge, 
for  it  is  evident  to  all.  It  would  make  this 
communication  too  long  to  enter  fully  into 
this  subject,  but  I  hope  that  some  further 
suggestions  respecting  it  may  be  included  in 
the  pages  of  '  N.  <k  Q.'  I  may  say  that  some 
time  back  I  read  a  paper  before  the  Biblio- 
graphical Society  on  portraits  in  booksi  and 
I  have  undertaken  to  draw  up  an  index  of 
^xsi^  '^T\>T^tA  in  English  books  to  the  end 


g- 8.  vn.  Junk  16.1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


471 


of   the   eighteenth  century  for  one  of  the 
Society's  monographs. 

Personally  I  fear  that  so  great  an  under- 
taking as  a  catalogue  of  British  engraved 
portraits  could  not  be  carried  out  unless 
Government  granted  aid,  and  surely  public 
aid  to  so  important  a  national  object  would 
be  amply  justified. 

Henry  B.  Wheatley. 

The  most  numerous  list  of  portraits  of  the 
last  century  (nineteenth)  is  Mr.  F.  Boase's 
in  his  *  Modern  English  Biography.' 

Mr.  Mason  makes  no  reference  to  the 
enormous  collection  of  portraits  at  the 
Bodleian  in  the  Hope  Collection.  The  dealer 
Mr.  Mason  refers  to  would  have  had  to  give 
up  business  when  he  began  the  catalogue,  or 
as  his  catalogue  increased  his  business  would 
decrease,  at  least  in  all  probability. 

Ralph  Thomas. 


*The  Two  Duchesses'  (9«»  S.  vii.  423).— 
Mr.  W.  Roberts  calls  attention  to  certain 
alleged  blunders  in  the  naming  of  the  por- 
traits which  illustrate  '  The  Two  Duchesses.' 
It  is  a  pity  that  Mr.  Roberts  did  not  call 
attention  to  these  during  Mr.  Yere  Foster's 
lifetime,  so  that  Mr.  Foster  might  have  had 
the  opportunitv  of  justifying  the  titles  and 
the  selection  of  the  portraits  that  illustrate 
the  work,  for  which  he  alone  was  responsible. 
It  would  be  rather  extraordinary  that  he 
should  be  in  error  as  to  the  portraits  of  his 
own  grandmother  (Lad^  Elizabeth).  It  is  a 
wise  child  who  knows  its  own  father ;  the 
ordinary  child's  grandmother  is  not  usually 
called  in  question,  especially  if  granny's  por- 
traits are  family  possessions. 

Blackie  <k  Son,  Ltd. 

Cluny  and  Clunie  (9**»  S.  vii.  408).— These, 
together  with  Clones,  and  the  numerous  com- 
pounds of  don-  in  Ireland,  are  surely  the 
same  word  —  Gadhelic  clnatn,  a  meadow. 
Canon  Taylor's  ethnological  map,  in  his 
*  Words  and  Places,'  does  not  extend  so  far 
east  as  Sa6ne-et- Loire,  but  it  shows  a  bunch 
of  Celtic  names  some  120  miles  to  the  west 
thereof,  while  to  the  south  lies  Lugdunum 
(Lyons),  well  known  to  be  of  Celtic  origin  in 
both  its  components.  H.  P.  L. 

Roman  Cathouc  Records  (9"»  S.  vii.  389). 
— John  Southerden  Burn  in  his  *  History  of 
Parish  Registers  in  England,'  London,  1842, 
states  that  **  the  Roman  Catholic  clergy  in 
Ireland  have  not,  until  lately,  been  accustomed 
to  keep  any  register  whatever."  R.  E.  Chester 
Waters,  B.A.,  in  his  'Parish  Registers  in 
England,'  says,  "It  is  a  positive  fact  that 


until  1  January,  1864,  the  births  and  deaths 
of  the  entire  population  of  Ireland,  and  the 
marriages  of  the  Catholic  majority,  were 
sufi^ered  to  remain  wholly  unregisterod."  It 
was  not  till  February,  1863,  the  Government 
brou{^ht  in  a  Bill  to  establish  civil  registra- 
tion m  Ireland.  Possibly  reference  to  early 
Roman  Catholic  literature  and  periodicals 
might  in  some  cases  furnish  information,  for 
which  lists  see  2>^  S.  xi.,  6^  S.  iii.,  7"»  S.  i. 
EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

That  in  the  eighteenth  century  the  Catholic 
priests  of  Ireland  kept  registers  of  baptisms, 
marriages,  and  burials  is,  I  think,  certain. 
In  FitzPatrick's  'Life  of  Dr.  Doyle,^  ed.  1880, 
vol.  i.  p  387,  we  are  told  that  the  loyalists 
among  other  plunder  stole  a  Catholic  parish 
register,  which  they  in  their  ignorance 
thought  was  a  list  of  rebels.  The  document 
was  probably  written  in  Latin. 

Edward  Peacock. 

Bishop's  Head  and  Foot  (9"»  S.  vii.  409). 
— I  have  an  explanation  to  offer  of  these 
place-names.  They  are  probably  a  transla- 
tion from  the  Cornish  pen  beagle  and  troz 
beagle  respectively.  In  Cornish  and  Welsh 
beagle  and  bttgaU  mean  a  pastor  or  shepherd, 
and  thence  by  analogy  sometimes  a  bishop. 
The  original  meaning  of  Pen  Beagle  was 
"Shepherd's  Headland,"  with  "Shepherd's 
Foot"  as  its  lower  extremity.  There  is  a 
farm  on  high  land  near  St.  Ives  called 
Penbeagle,  i.e.,  the  Shepherd's  Headland. 
John  Hokson  Matthews. 

Town  Hall,  Cardiff. 

England  and  Scotland  reproduced  in 
America  (1^^  S.  v.  467  ;  vi.  212, 330).— Queries 
about  names  of  English  counties  reproduced 
in  the  United  States  have  more  tnan  once 
appeared  in  *N.  <&  O.'  In  some  cases  when 
a  settlement  was  maae  the  town  was  given  the 
name  of  an  English  town,  and  the  countv  when 
formed  was  named  from  the  town.  Thus  in 
Massachusetts  there  are  counties  of  Ply- 
mouth, Barnstaple,  and  Bristol.  In  Pennsyl- 
vania there  are  counties  named  from  General 
Richard  Montgomery,  the  Countess  of  Hunt- 
ingdon, and  the  Duke  of  Cumberland  ;  and  in 
Georgia  one  from  General  Benjamin  Lincoln. 
There  are  in  the  thirteen  colonies  (including 
Maine  and  Vermont)  six  Montgomeries. 
Scotland  is  not  represented ;  Ireland  only 
by  Ulster  county,  JVew  York;  England  by 
sixty-nine :  Bedford,  two ;  Berks,  two ; 
Bucks ;  Chester,  three  ;  Cumberland,  six ; 
Durham  ;  Essex,  five ;  Gloucester,  three ; 
Hampshire,  two;   Huntiii^do\^\  K<b\^V»^\:«^\ 


472 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     p*  b.  vil  Juk»  is.  i»l 


four;  Monmouth:  Norfolk,  two  ;  Northamp- 
toD,  threo  :  NortnuraberlancL  two ;  Oxford, 
two  ;  Rutland  ;  Sonaerset,  five  ;  Stafford  ; 
Suffolk,  two ;  SusHex,  three ;  Warwick ; 
Westmoreland,  two  ;  Worcester,  two  ;  York, 
five*  O.  H.  Darlington. 

Pittsburg,  Pen  nay  1  van  U, 

"  Lyngell"  (9th  s^  vii^  49  3i4),^tWia  wonJ 
occurs  in  *  Dowaabell,'  a  poem  writteo  by 
Michael  Drayton  (1563-1631),  and  may  be 
found  in  Percy's  *  Reliquea  of  Ancient  English 
Poetry '  :— 

His  aule  and  lingell  In  a  thong, 
Hie  tar  box€  on  bla  broad  bi^lt  iioog. 

It  maana  probably  a  waxed  end  used  by 
cobblera  for  mendiug  ahoes— what  used  to 
be  called  a  "  taehing  end  *■  in  the  north  of 
England*  John  Pickfoed,  M.A. 

Newboarne  Rectory,  Woodbridge, 

*'  Lingle"  h  in  use  in  Aberrleenihire  to 
denote  any  long  string,  and  generally  the 
adjective  *'lang"  is  prefixed.  In  particular 
it  Ls  the  technical  term  for  a  string  made  of 
plaited  rushers  from  which  the  pith  lij  .^tripped 
out,  used  for  twisting  round  the  shank  of  a 
heather  besom.  In  finishing,  a  flat,  pointeil 
bar  of  iron^  called  a  cod  needlot  having  an 
eye  near  the  point,  is  driven  through  the 
shank  of  the  beiiom  ;  the  lingle  is  put  through 
the  eye  and  drawn  through  the  shank, 
dividing  it  into  two  and  so  making  it  flat. 

J.  Milne. 

LoToa  Flo  WEES  and  Lotahs  (9*^  S.  vii, 
346X — ^A  lotah  is  not  a  little  dish  or  plate, 
but  a  drinking  vessel.  It  m  about  the  depth 
of  an  ordinary  jam-pot,  narrowing  towards 
the  neck  and  bulging  out  towards  the  ba»e. 
With  a  string  round  its  neck,  the  lotah  is 
Dften  let  down  into  a  well^  and,  after  it  has 
filled  itself  therein,  it  is  drawn  up  just  aa  h\ 
done  with  a  bucket,  A  lotah  is  defiled  when 
one  of  lower  caste  than  its  owner  presumes 
to  handle  it  or  drink  from  it. 

Qeorob  Akgus. 

St.  Andrew*,  N.B. 

Lotahs  are  not  little  disihes  or  plates,  but 
more  or  lei*s  globular  brass  ves»els  for  carry- 
ing flu  iris,  having  generally  a  mouth  suf- 
ficiently wide  to  admit  the  hand— -therefore 
not  a  buttle.  James  Dallas, 


Joan  of  Ahc  (9^^  S,  vii,  408).— 7^'*  S.  x.  407 
ourttained  a  statement  and  query  respect- 
ing a  M8.  Qopj  of  the  trial,  wliich  was  sai<l 
to  have  l>een  in  the  possoaaion  of  Messrs, 
Langm&n  ik  Co,      A  correspondent  replied 

(p,  430)  thmt  doubtless  it  had  passed  Itita  t\\^l^t.  \l  ro,  4,  is  enterefl  a  leaae  (in  LaUn)  fiPOiD 
AsAbumliam  Library,  and  theuc^  m^  t\i^\^^^  Vvti%,  ^^ud^  \^  f  ebmftry  (159(VtX  ud 


British  Museum.  Ke  also  added  it  was  one 
of  the  three  official  copies  of  the  pro<^ed- 
ings,  the  other  two  being  in  the  Bibliotbeqae 
Nationale,  Paris  ;  but  in  one  of  those  copies 
some  of  the  evidence  had  been  omitted.  At 
p,  497  will  be  found  the  title,  being  an  extract 
from  a  catalogue  of  tbe  sale  of  books,  dec, 
belonging  to  Messrs.  Longman  in  1816.  Tbe 
MS,  was  priced  at  eoi. 

EvKRAEO  Home  Colehait. 
71,  Brecknock  Road* 

Adam  Buck  (9'**  S.  vii.  361),  —  I  have 
two  miniatures  on  ivory  by  one  of  the 
Bucks :  one  of  my  father,  a  most  perfect  like- 
nesH,  and  one  of  his  uncle.  Both  were  in  the 
same  regiment,  the  11th.  Cork  being  the 
chief  port  of  departure  for  the  front  from 
Ireland  during  the  Peninsular  war,  and  there 
being  no  steamers  in  thc^e  day  a,  a  re^ment 
had  often  to  wait  for  days  there  for  a  mvoar- 
able  wind  or  a  convoy  :  and  the  officers  fre- 
quently used  the  time  by  getting  their  por- 
traits ^inted  to  send  home  to  thos#  whom 
they  might  never  see  again.  Buck  used  to 
have  the  bodies  done,  and  even  occaaionally 
the  facings  of  the  regiments,  and  so  if  pressed 
for  time  had  only  to  put  in  the  faces  !  These 
rainiaturas  are  as  fresh  to-day  a^  when  they 
were  done.  My  father  left  the  aerviee  in 
16 IG.  His  uncle's  portrait  wa.**  done  a  long 
time  before,  as  may  be  seen  by  the  great 
dUFemnce  of  the  uniform  I  have  reason  to 
believe  it  was  also  an  excellent  likeness,  for, 
happening  to  be  in  Dublin  several  years  aga 
I  saw  by  the  morning  papers  that  the  ma 
regiment  was  to  embark  at  Kingstown  one 
day  for  foreign  service.  Never  having  seen 
it^  I  went  to  Kingstown  to  do  so*  particularly 
as  I  knew  that  a  grandson  of  my  fathers 
uncle,  whom  also  I  liarl  never  ^leeo,  waa  lur 
geon  there.  A  friend  happened  to  meet  me 
there,  and  I  said  to  him,  ^*  Did  you  ever  see 
that  officer  wearing  a  cocked  bat  with  a  greeo 
plume?''  He  looked  carefully  at  him,  and 
then  said,  '*Who  is  hel  You  have  his  por- 
trait, but  the  uniform  is  quite  different.'^ 
Buck  also  painted  a  miniature  of  my  father's 
first  cousin  and  my  godfather,  who  was  also 
in  the  regiment;  but  it  was  not  in  nnifons 
and  not  a  favourable  likeness,  I  could  men- 
tion other  cases  of  "  throwing  back,"  where* 
member  of  the  fourth^eneratioii  was  scarcely 
distinguishable  from  his  ancestor.    ^^    *   ^ 


K,  J.  X 


"Gone  to  Jeeicso"  (^  S.  vi.  405  ;  vii.  W). 

iSince  my  reply  at  the  latter  referaoce  I 
have  made  the  rather  remarkable  disco ver¥ 
that  on  the  Patent  Roll  of  22  Hen.  VIIL. 


9*8.viLJuKBiM90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


473 


made  by  the  advke  of  Sir  John  Daunce,  Kt.. 
and  John  Hales,  recitinp:  an  indenture  oi 
20  September,  21  Hen,  VIIL  (1529X  between 
William  Capon,  S.T,P.,  the  dr^t  dean  of  the 
Cardinals  College  in  Ipiswich  (go.  SuffolkX  and 
tlie  Fellows  of  the  said  coliepe,  of  the  one 
part,  and  John  Sray  tb,  of  Blakamore,  co, 
Easex,  gent.,  of  the  other  part,  and  granting 
to  the  latter 

'''All  the  Seite  and  Mansion  of  the  Manor  or  Lord- 
sbip  of  Bkkaniore  aforesaid,  and  All  the  Rectory 
of  BLakiLmore,  with  Ail  the  demeaoo  laods. 
J^c,  a  teoemetit  lialled  Jerico,  and  anotber  called 
'kHerdewyke/'^&a., 

with  certain  re^ervationa,  for  a  t4>rm  of 
twenty -one  years,  at  a  rent  of  25/.  per 
annuuj  payable  half-yearly ;  which  leasee  was 
apparently  to  confirm  the  estate  which  the 
said  John  Smytli  had  in  the  premises  bv 
reason  of  the  term  granted  to  him  by  such 
indenture, 

I  find  alHO  that  in  the  will  of  this  "  John 
Smythe  of  Blackemore,  co.  Ebtaex,  EHq»^,"  with 
codicil  and  schedulen  annexed,  all  dated 
10  May,  1543,  and  proved  6  February,  1544/5 
(P,C.C,  Pynnyng,  21  and  26),  there  is  mention 
in  four  places  of  '*  my  house  called  Jerico  in 
Black  more  afore^mde."  as  well  as  in  another 
place  of  "  my  said  liowse  at  [iic]  Jerico," 
which  was  to  be  leased  by  his  e^ecutons  to  his 
son-in-law  William  Dix  and  ^'  Luce  "  his  wife, 
when  they  so  requested,  for  a  term  of  seven 
years  at  an  annual  rent  of  30/,,  kc.  He  also 
mentions  therein  his ''mansion  called  Smy  thes 
hall,'*  which  waa  at  Black  more  and  not  far 
from  *'  Jerico." 

It  is  therefore  placed  beyond  all  possibility 
of  reasonable  further  doubt  that  the  house  in 
question  was  known  as  *'  Jerico  "  at  least  as 
early  as  the  time  of  Henry  VIIL,  when  the 
saying  attributefl  to  his  courtiers,  that  the 

fay  king  on  pleasure  bent  had  **gone  to 
eric  ho,"  is  saia  to  have  originated,  It  would, 
however,  be  extremely  interesting  could  we 
a^scertain  when  and  why  and  by  whom  this 
curious  name  was  first  applied  to  the  house. 

The  priory  of  Augustinian  canons  at  Black- 
more  was  one  of  the  small  monasteries  dis- 
solved by  Wolsey  in  1525  for  the  foundation 
of  his  colleges.  W,  I.  R.  V, 

The  H  ALBERTS  (9*^  S-  vi,  181).— In  Colombia 
(South  America)  military  floggings  are  per- 
formed as  follows.  The  men  are  stretchea  on 
their  faces  on  the  ground,  a  soldier  holding 
each  man's  head  and  bands,  and  another 
holding  his  feet,  his  hof ly  being  naked  to  the 
middle  of  the  thighs.  On  either  side  of  each 
prisoner  are  two  other  soldiers  with  long  rods 
of  thorn,  the  thorns  left  on,  the  thin  end  of 


the  size  to  fit  in  the  top  of  a  rifle  barrel. 
With  these  they  strike  in  turns,  one  on  the 
man's  shoulders,  the  other  lower  down.  A 
very  great  nu ruber  of  strokes  are  commonly 
given,  and  the  shrieks  of  the  victims  are 
heard  far  above  the  band  which  plays  beside 
them.  The  regiment  the  men  belong  to  is 
drawn  up  in  square,  and  tlie  punishment  is 
inflicted  in  the  centre.  The  house  I  lived  in 
during  the  revolution  of  1876-7  looked  on 
the  plaza  of  Santa  Ana  (Tolima),  and  I  heard 
and  saw  a  good  deal  of  this  punishment  then, 

lEAGVt. 

Ipplepen,  CO.  Devon  {9*^  S.  vL  409  ;  vii.  50, 
11.%  217,  ^97,  353)— I  hope  Mr,  Gough  will 
explain  the  meaning  of  Malony  and  Cass  id  ay 
be-^ides  his  own  name,  and  as  many  other 
Irish  names  as  may  be.  Nowhere  are  such 
interpretations  so  much  needed  as  in  America, 
where  Irish  colonists  will  soon  outnumber  the 
Irishmen  left  at  home.  (Jassoday  (uc)  ia  the 
name  of  the  Chief  Justice  of  Wisconsin  for 
the  last  decafle, 

McDonough,  which  Mr.  Gouoh  makes  to 
signify  ^'Sundav,"  reminds  one  of  Madame 
Sonntag,  and  oi  the  widespread  notion  that 
children  born  on  Sunday  have  a  spiritual 
insight  denied  to  all  born  on  secular  days. 
Thus  far  'N.  ^  Q.'  has  taught  us  very  little 
about  Irish  names,  and  1  know  no  book  on 
that  speciality,  Jamks  D.  Butler, 

Madison,  Wis* 

Btanbuey  of  Devok  akd  Corkwall  {P^  S. 
vii.  128,  274),— There  is  an  agreement  **cum 
Willo  StAnburye  genos,  et  Jana  ux.  eius  "  in 
the  Recovery  Roll  188  (cxxv.),  Hil,  5  Car.  L 

In  the  '  Marriage  Licences  of  the  Diocese 
of  Exeter,'  edited  by  Col.  Vivian,  I  have 
noticed  the  following  Stan  bury  entries  (there 
may  be  more)  :— 

"15ai.  Dec.  30th,  George  Staabury  and  Elka- 
beth  Panchsrd  of  Barum," 

"  1610.  Nicholas  Stan  bury  of  Taruarton  and  Amey 
Cuttinge  of  aanie,'' 

Pixy, 

PoWDBRiNC  Gowns  (9^  S.  vii.  268,  374).— 
In  Lady  Sherborne's  weekly  washing  lists  at 
Sherborne  House  in  Gloucestershire  for  1787 
powdering  gowns  are  mentioned.  Perhaps 
the  complete  list  as  pertaining  to  a  lady  of 
rank  at  that  time  may  be  of  interest.  The 
items  are  2  powdering  |?owns^  1  pair  of  ruffieis, 
B  shifts,  1  dress,  1  petticoat>,  2  muslin  hand- 
kercfiief?!,  1  apron,  1  flounce,  1  pair  of  pockets. 
1  pair  of  silk  stockings,  I  towel,  1  cap^ana 
1  noo<l.  Her  husband  the  first  Lord  Sher- 
borne's list  at  the  same  time  includes  2  shaving 


cloths,    11   cravats,  \Z  is?t\vc\*,  ^  txv^\^.^-«w>'^r^ 


474 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES-      [»*  s.  vil  juke  is.  iwi. 


worsted  stockingfi.  In  l7tJ9  Lord  Sherborne 
mid  six  guineas  for  a  mother- of  pearl  powder 
noriii  mounted  in  silver,  M, 

No.  26,  Holland  Street,  Ken  si  nj:  ton,  has  a 
*' powdermg  closet,"  It  is  a  aroall  room  out 
of  the  back  drawing-room.  The  house  ia 
said  to  have  belonged  to  a  lady  who  was  one 
of  Queen  Anne's  maids  of  honour. 

Ibague. 

PiowKR  Game  (9*''  S,  vii  3i9,  397)— I  ara 
surprised  that  K  should  hazard  the  unac 
countable  statement  that  dandelion  chains 
are  "apparently  unknown  around  North- 
ampton." The  little  village  in  which  I  am 
writing  this  note  is  not  many  toiler  from  our 
county  town,  and  I  can  aysuro  him  that  here, 
at  any  rate,  the  children  repeatedly  amuse 
themselves  by  manufacturing  these  fragile 
ornaments.  In  my  walks  lately  I  have  fre- 
quently  come  across  groups  of  little  girls 
busily  engaged  weaving  daisv  chain.3j  daisy - 
and -buttercup  chains,  or  dandelion  chains. 

John  T.  Pace. 

West  Hftddon,  Northanrtpt^iDsiiire. 

"  Atte"  (9^  S.  vii.  388).— This  word  is  not 
equivalent  to  de  or  cfe  la,  but  to  the  Latin  ad, 
as  Johannes  ad  Fonteni=^ John  att^  Well; 
JiobtrtitA  ad  Montem  =  Robert  atte  Hill,  ic. 
*'Atte"  denoted  residencej  and  d^  origin. 
Unlike  the  latter,  *Vatte"'  is  not  connected 
with  a  place-name  proper,  such  as  the  name 
of  a  township  or  parish,  but  with  some 
feature  of  tbe  landscape  which  afforded  ready 
identification  of  a  persoti^R  abode. 

John  Hobson  MAXTHEwa. 

Town  Hall,  Cardiff, 

*'Atte"  denoted  actual  residence  without 
implying  possej^sory  title  or  rights.  This  may 
be  gathered  from  the  fact  that  it  is  appliecl 
alraast  invariably  in  relation  to  topography. 
Thus  we  have  Atcliffe,  Atfield,  A  thill,  Atlay 
aod  Atlee^  A tten borough  and  Atterbury, 
Atton,  Atridge^  Attree,  Attwell  and  Atwell, 
At  water.  At  wood  and  Afcworth,  See  *  Eng- 
liah  Surnames,'  p.  110.       Arthur  Mayall. 

Shakespeare  the  **  Knavish  "  (9**"  S.  vii. 
162,  255,  330).— Poor  Shakspere  !  After  300 
years  to  be  accused  of  being  a  vulgar  card- 
sharper  and  **  bully  '  rook '* !  But  is  Ma, 
Thorpe  serious?  If  ^o,  is  be  fair  in  his 
reference  to  the  quotation  from  the  'Return 
from  Parnassus  ^  ?    The  lines  are  :^ 

His  flweeter  vera«  con  tains  h&rt-robbiug  life, 
Could  but  a  graver  subject  him  cont^^nt. 

It  is  Shak spare's  verse  alone  that  ij3  alluded 
tOf  not  his  life.  Then,  is  not  Shakt^pece  mK)ken 
of  by  hi$  contemporaries  a^  "  getveroi^m  nM^ 


and  mood  "  (1603),  "  upright  in  dealing*'  (1&92X 
*'a  king  amongst  the  meaner  sort''  (IfilO), 
an  *' honest  sower"  (1610),  "a  worthy  frietnl 
and  fellow"  (1623),  **  gentle  Shakspre'' 
(162a),  "honest  and  of  an  open  and  free 
nature"  (1623)?  Did  not  Ben  Jodsod,  in 
spite  of  some  peevish  satire  a^^ainst  him, 
love  Shaksj^ere  almost  to  idolatry !  Were 
not  numbers  of  persons  of  quality^  such  as 
the  Earls  of  Southampton  and  Pembroke, 
h  18  patrons,  and  men  of  intellect  and  integrity, 
such  as  Dray  ton »  his  friends  ?  <jue>en  Eliza- 
beth had  a  great  partiality  for  htm,  and  Kinj? 
James  wrote  him  "an  amicable  letter  with  his 
own  hand."  Is  it  conceivable  that  any  one 
c-an  believe  a  man  so  regarded  by  his  enn- 
temporaries  to  have  been  a  common  cheat  t 
It  is  incredible,  except  for  believers  in  the 
Shake-Bacon  delusion.  That  Shakspere  was 
not  so  morally  good  as  he  was  intellectually 
f^reat  ia  indeed  probably  true.  The  same  un- 
fortunately holds  f^ood  of  Cwsar,  the  "  fore- 
most man  of  all  this  world."*  His  ^  Venus  and 
Adonia^  shocked  even  some  of  his  con  tem- 
poraries, and  there  are  too  many  traditions 
to  the  contrary  to  allow  us  to  Believe  that 
Shakspere  was  an  entirely  moral  man.  But 
no  nne  who  is  really  familiar  with  the  poet's 
works,  and  with  what  was  said  about  him 
by  his  contemporaries,  can  doubt  for  a  moment 
that  he  was  a  good  friend  and  an  honest 
man.  The  passages  quoted  by  your  corre- 
spondent from  Harington  and  Middletoo 
have  no  apparent  connexion  whatever  with 
Shakspere.  Reginald  Haines. 

UppiEigham. 

The  Book  or  Common  Peaykb  m  Latoj 
(8^^  S.  xi.  101,  289).— In  hi^  valuable  biblio- 
grapln'^  of  tbe  Latin  Prayer  Book  the  late 
l)iL  Spaerow  SlKPaoN  had  overlooked  a 
query  in  5*^^  S.  viii.  148.  At  that  reference 
PARO{]HtJs  asked  what  was  know^n  of  Thomas 
ParaoU,  the  compiler  of  the  fourth  version, 
and  what  was  the  object  of  this  tranilation, 
when  an  authorized  version  (DureUs)  was  in 
use.  The  first  of  these  questions  is  answered 
by  tbe  short  biography  in  '  D.N.E'  With 
regard  to  the  second,  it  is  likely  enough  that 
some  of  the  clergy,  who  may  be  presumed  to 
have  made  most  n^e  of  these  Latin  versions, 
would  prefer  to  read  the  Biblical  portions  in 
the  reformed  version  of  CastelHo  rather  than 
in  the  Vulgate  translation.  Parsell  s  trantla- 
tion  evidently  drove  Durefa  out  of  the  Held  ; 
but  it  does  not  seem  to  have  become  im- 
mediately popular,  as  it  took  seven  ye&rs  to 
sell  off  the  urst  edition.  Surely  the  John 
Williams  to  whom  Parse! I  dedicated  his  first 
\«&kffi  ^VV^\  ^*a^  ^aoc  the  *  I>,N.R*  bw- 


i>*8.viLJro.i6.igoi.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


476 


er.  Bishop  of  Chichester,  not  Chester, 
he'  1713  edition,  of  which  I  have  a  copy,  is 
dedicated  to  Sir  William  Dawes,  Bishop  of 
Chester,  afterwards  Archbishop  of  York.  It 
is  embellished  with  the  frontispiece  mentioned 
bjr  Dr.  Simpson,  a  portrait  of  ^*  George-Lewis, 
King  of  Great  Britain,"  Ac.  (which  shows  that 
the  book  could  not  have  been  bound  up  before 
1714X  and  fifty-five  **  Historical  Cuts,"  by 
Sturt  and  others.  Some  of  them  have  con- 
siderable merit,  others  are  very  poor.  An 
early  owner  has  written  in  a  beautiful  hand 
on  the  fly-leaf  the  following  lines  :— 
Ad  librum  Frtcum  Communium. 
Qui  fueras  Patrum  decus  et  tutela  raeorum, 

Lcetitise  pariter  tristitiseque  comes, 
Qui  mihi  jam  puero  suasor  monltorque  fuiati, 

Xeo  jnvenem  rect&  passus  abire  vi&, 
8oIamen  fias  idem  columenqne  senectse, 

Quo  duce  supremum  carpere  fas  sit  iter ; 
Te  versem  studio  vivus  validusque  diumo, 


*  Te  teneam  rooriens  deficiente  mana,'* 

U^rois  madeat  lacrymis  tua  pag:iDa  no 
cula  siut  chartis  ultima  jnncta  tuis. 


The  following  English  version  may  be  ac- 
cepted as  a  fair  equivalent  :— 

Thou,  who  wast  once  my  fathers'  pride  and  safe- 
guard, 

Sharer  alike  of  all  their  joys  and  griefs— 
Who  in  my  boyhood  urged  and  warned  me  wisely. 

Nor  let  my  steps  in  youth  miss  the  right  way- 
Bo  still  through  age  my  prop  and  consolation. 

Under  thy  guidance  may  I  close  this  track, 


Under  thy  guidance  may  I  close  this  tra 
In  my  hale  lite  con  thee  with  daily  study, 
Still  hold  thee  when  my   hand   falls 


death. 


slack   in 


Be  thy  page  moistened  with  my  latest  weeping. 
And  on  thy  leaves  may  my  last  kiss  be  pressed. 

It  might  be  desired  that  some  son  of  the 
Church  of  England  who  now  shares  the 
venerating  affection  displayed  in  these  lines 
would  make  and  publish  a  careful  comparison 
between  the  various  Latin  versions  of  our 
"incomparable  Liturgy."  This  does  not 
appear  to  have  been  undertaken  yet  at  all 
thoroughly.  Messrs.  C.  and  W.  W.  Marshall's 
valuable  account  of  Dean  DureFs  version,  to 
which  Dr.  Sparrow  Simpson  calls  attention, 
is  fairly  exhaustive  on  the  Catechism  ;  but  a 
good  deal  of  valuable  space  is  taken  up  with 
somewhat  polemical  discussions,  and  they 
practically  "hold  a  brief"  for  Durel.  My 
own  copy  of  this  version  is  dated  1691,  and 
this  edition  seems  hitherto  to  have  escaped 
notice.  All  the  earlier  versions  are  remark- 
ably scarce,  considering  that  several  editions 
of  each  (excepting  Aless^s)  appeared.  Probably 
the  issues  generally  were  limited. 

Cecil  Debbbs. 
Rood  Well,  Edinburgh  (9***  S.  vii.  207).— 
The  site  of  the  old  ''Bode  weU  "iaa  matter  of 


conjecture.  It  has  been  suggested  that  about 
the  year  1251  its  name  was  changed  to  St. 
Margaret's.  Some  remarks  on  the  subject 
are  to  be  found  in  the  fifth  volume  of  the 
Proceedings  of  the  Society  of  Antiquaries  of 
Scotland,  and  a  summary  of  them  is  given 
in  Mackinlays  *  Folk-lore  of  Scottish  Lochs 
and  Springs,  p.  18.  Mackay,  in  his  *  History 
of  the  Burgh  of  Canongate,'  quotes  Belleo- 
den*s  translation  of  Boece's  narrative,  from 
which  I  extract  the  following  sentence: — 
"  The  hart  fled  away  with  great  voilence,  and 
evanist  in  the  same  place  qu  hare  now  springis 
the  Rude  well." 

The  land  on  which  St.  Margaret's  Well  was 
situated  was  acquired  by  the  North  British 
Railway  Company,  and  a  private  station  was 
constructed  there,  which,  Ming  near  Holyrood 
Palace,  was  frequently  used  by  Queen  Vic- 
toria when  visiting  Edinburgh.  Soon  after 
the  well  came  into  the  possession  of  the  rail- 
way company  the  water  disappeared,  having 
found  another  channel.  W.  S. 

Byron's  Poem  on  Greece  (9**»  S.  vii  328).— 
The  following  are  the  lines  inquired  for  by 
W.  F.  L.  :— 

Know'st  thou  the  land  of  the  hardy  fcreen  thistle, 
Where  oft  o*er  the  mouDtain  the  shepherd's  shnll 

whistle 
Is  heard  in  the  gloamin*  so  sweetly  to  sound, 
Where  the  red  blooming   heather   and  hare-bell 

abound  ? 

Know'st  thou  the  land  of  the  mountain  and  flood, 
Where  the  pine  of  the  forest  for  ages  hath  stood, 
Where  the  eagle  comes  forth  on  the  wings  of  the 

storm. 
And   the    young   ones   are   rock'd   on   the   high 

Cairngorm  ? 

Know'st  thou  the  land  where  the  cold  Celtic  wave 
Encircles  the  hills  which  its  blue  waters  lave ; 
Where  the  vir^ns  are  pure  as  the  gems  of  the  sea, 
And  their  spirits  are  light  as  their  actions  are  free  ? 

'Tis  the  land  of  my  sires,  'tis  the  land  of  my  youth, 
Where  first  my  young  neart  glow*d  with  honour 

and  truth. 
Where  the  wild  fire  of  genius  first  caught  my  young 

soul, 
And   my  feet   and   my   fancy  roam'd   free  from 

control. 

And  is  there  no  charm  in  our  own  native  earth  ? 
Does  no  talisman  rest  on  the  place  of  our  birth  ? 
Are  the  blue  hills  of  Albyn  not  worthy  our  note  ? 
Shall  her  sons'  deeds  in  war,  shall  her  fair,  be 
forgot? 

Then  strike  the  wild  lyre,  let  it  swell  with  the 

strain ; 
Let  the  mighty  in  arms  live  and  conquer  again ; 
Their  past  deeds  of  valour  shall  we  not  rehearse, 
And  tne  charms  of  our  maidens  resound  in  our 

verse? 

I  recret  that  Va  m^  c«^\^  c!l  'Ocia  ^^^^ 
poem  the  aut\\oi^«  nwxi^S&TioX.  \i^n«cl \\k\wc^w^ 


476 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9«^8,viLJuifEi5,i90L 


some  of  your  readers  will  be  able  to  supply  it. 
The  custom  at  the  present  time  of  not  pub- 
lishing the  name  of  the  poet  whenever  the 
song  IS  printed  is  to  be  regretted.  At  few 
of  the  popular  concerts  of  the  day  where  the 
grand  old  songs  of  the  past  are  sung  is  the 
name  of  the  author  of  the  words  ever  given, 
but  that  of  the  composer  of  the  music  is 
never  omitted.  It  is  surprising,  comparativelv 
speaking,  how  few  people  know  the  author  s 
name  and  the  historic  interest  associated 
with  numbers  of  the  old  songs. 

Charles  Qrebn. 
18,  Shrewsbury  Road,  Sheffield. 

[A  much  longer  version,  differing  in  many  respects, 
is  given  in  Hamilton's  collection  of  *  Parodies,' 
voL  iiL  p.  220.    It  is  said  to  be  anonymous.] 

Continual  Burnt  Offering  (9^*»  S.  vii. 
408).— Josephus  (*  Wars,'  VI.  ii.  1)  fixes  the 
date  when  the  daily  sacrifice  failed,  namely, 
17th  day  of  Panemus  or  Tammuz  (=1  July), 
A.D.  70.  C.  S.  Ward. 

Wootton  St.  Lawrence,  Basingstoke. 

Uoo  FoscoLO  IN  London  (9"»  S.  vi.  326; 
vii.  150,  318).  —  Faulkner's  copy  of  Ugo 
Foscolo's  epitaph  certainly  does  not  corre- 
spond with  that  at  present  on  the  tomb.  I 
copied  the  various  inscriptions  in  1889  as 
foflows : — 

[East  end.] 

Ugo  Foscolo 

died 

September  10th 

1827 

aged  50 

[West  end.] 

Restored 

1861 

[North  and  south  sides.] 

Ck>at  of  arms  and  motto 

Accingar  zona  fortitudinU 

[North  cope.] 

This  spot  where  for  forty-four  years 

the  relics  of 

Ugo  Foscolo 

reposed  in  honoured  custody 

will  be  for  ever  held  in  grateful  remembrance 

by  the  Italian  nation. 

[South  cope.] 

From  the  sacred  guardianship  of  Chiswick 

to  the  honours  of  Santa  Croce  in  Florence 

the  Government  and  people  of  Italy 

have  transported  the  remains  of 

the  wearied  citizen  poet 

7th  June  187L 

Under  date  17  June,  1871,  *N.  «fe  Q.' duly 

recorded  the  exhumation  of  Foscolo's  remains 

"in  the  presence  of  the  Italian  Minister  and  a 

number  of  distinguished  Italians."    The  same 

paragraph  also  noted  the  curious    circum- 

stance  referred  to  by  Mr.  Pick¥ord  aaioV\ovj?^  \ 

'* Although  the  body  has  been  und^t  ^toxxivd 


for  forty-four  years,  the  form  was  intact  and 
the  features  still  pierfect.''  I  presume  this 
strange  fact  must  have  been  much  talked  aboat 
at  the  time.  It  is  a  subject  about  which  one 
would  certainly  like  to  hear  more. 

John  T.  Pagk 
West  Haddon,  Northamptonshire. 

Baron  Qrivignce  and  Power  (9^  S.  vii 
409).— If  Mr.  Boddinoton  will  apply  to  the 
Rev.  W.  H.  Kirkpatrick  Bedford,  rector  of 
Sutton  Coldfield,  Birmingham,  who  is  a 
member  of  one  of  the  families  referred  to  by 
your  correspondent,  he  will  probablv  obtain 
the  information  he  desires.  Mr.  Kirkpatrick 
Bedford  is  the  learned  author  of  'The  Blazon 
of  Episcopacy '  and  many  other  antiquarian 
works.  John  Hobson  Matthews. 

Town  Hall,  Cardiff. 

"  Bandy-legged  "='*  Knock-kneed  "  (9^  S. 
vii.  124,  255).— Would  not  the  word  "  bandy,' 
as  applied  to  a  knock-kneed  person's  legs  as 
well  as  to  one  who  is  bow-legged,  have  come 
into  use  from  the  fact  of  the  word  comprising 
both  the  angular  and  the  bowed  sense,  for  a 
person's  legs  may  be  bent  in  either  way! 
That  the  bowed  or  convexly  curved  meaning 
of  the  phrase  is,  however,  the  proper  and 
preferable  one  is  no  doubt  accidental,  since 
the  word  '*  bandy  "  is  originally  identical  with 
the  name  of  the  club  or  bat  used  in  the  game 
of  golf,  or  bandy-ball,  which  in  the  reign  of 
Edwara  III.  was  called  a  **  bandy  **  from  its 
bent  shape  (see  Brand's  *  Pop.  Antiq.,'  1870, 
vol.  ii.  p.  310).  "  Do  you  bandy  looks  with 
me,  you  rascal  1 "  says  Eling  Lear  to  Oswald. 
On  tne  other  hand,  one  whose  knees  knock 
together  in  walking,  '*  as  if  kneading  dough," 
says  Grose,  was  spoken  of  as  "  baker-kneed '': 

His  voice  had  broken  to  a  Rroffish  squeak, 
He  had  grown  blear-eyedJsaker-kne^d,  and  gummy. 
Colman, '  Poetical  Vagaries,'  p.  13. 

The  latter  deformity  is  also  known  as  being 
'*  K-legged,"  from  the  resemblance  of  the  le^ 
of  such  a  person  to  the  letter  K,  and  is  said 
to  be  printers'  slang.  ''To  knock  one  bandy" 
is  tailors'  slang  meaning  to  astound,  to 
^  flabbergast,"  and  probably  alludes  to  the 
attitude  of  having  the  legs  somewhat  apart 
that  mi^ht  be  assumed  at  the  reception  of 
astounding  news.  J.  H.  MacMichasl. 
Wimbledon  Park  Road. 

"Carrick"  (9"»  S.  vii.  208,  2d2,  3d3X-A 
writer  in  the  Olcugouf  Evening  Ntw$  of 
21  May  says  that  this  ^ame,  under  the  name 
of  "  the  knotty,"  is  fashionable  at  the  present 
time  in  the  county  of  Caithnoea.  It  is  played 
hv  old  and  younj;,  and  the  writer^s  informant^ 
>M>Ey(^  \\»A  \\N^  \£l  TVvnjrao  for  the  laat  tec 


9^  s.  vn.  June  16, 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


477 


years,  iays  that  a  striking  feature  in  the 
amtisement  la  the  enthusiasm  of  middle-aKed 
and  even  elderly  devotees.  ^''Th©  knotty  is 
directly  suggeBtive  of  **the  knout,"  which  is 
the  name  given  in  Fifeshire  to  the  ball  U9ed 
in  the  game.  Thomas  Bayiie. 

Dendritiq  Maekinos  in  Pafee  (9^*  S-  vii. 
389),  ^In  Science  Gossip  for  February  last, 
p.  25S,  is  an  article  by  Mr.  F.  Shillington 
Scales,  FpR.M.S.,  on  this  matter^  and  his 
words  are  "I  was  able  to  obtain  unmistakable 
reactions  proving  that  the  nuclei  were  indeed 
nothing  but  minute  particles  of  copper'';  and 
again  i— 

*'  I  have  no  hesitation,  therefore,  in  snyiog  that 
these  dendritic  spots  may  now  be  definitely  stated 
to  be  formed  by  the  iiow  OJ^idisatioTj  of  a,  minute 
spot  of  metallic  copper  depoaited  in  the  process  of 
paper  manufacture  mto  black  cupric  oxide  (CuO}." 

The  best  paper  Mr*  Scales  considers  to  be 
old  rag' made  papers,  i.«.,  old  ledgers  and 
account  books,  ana  he  notes  that  the  paper 
in  such  ca«es  is  tinted  blue:  ^* five-sixths  of 
the  dendritic  spots  submitted  to  me  were 
found  on  blue- tin  ted  papers," 

S.  L.  Petty. 
Ulverston. 

Wood  was  not  used  in  the  manufacture 
of  paper  until  after  1854^  so  that  the  paper 
upon  which  the  First  Series  of  *  N  &  Q," 
was  printed  would  be  mode  either  from  tne 
pure  rag  or  from  old  paper  pulped.      S.  E. 

Was  wood  pulp  in  use  or  even  thought  of 
in  the  early  fifties  of  the  last  century  1  and  if 
fio,  what  has  that  to  do  with  dendritic  mark- 
ing! of  m^netite  in  p&per  1 

Thomas  J.  Jeakes. 

'* Shuttles"  (9^  S.  vii.  407).— In  Jamie- 
son's  'Scottish  Dictionary'  the  meaning  of 
*' shuttle"  (or  "shottle")  is  given  as  "a 
small  drawer^"  and  it  is  doubtless  in  this 
sense  that  Scott  uses  it  in  '  Guy  Man ne ring/ 
chap,  xxxviii,  A.  k  C  Black. 

This  is  a  name  given  to  a  small  shelf  or 
drawer  found  in  the  large  wooden  trunks 
or  "  kists"  which  our  grand niotbers  Mned  for 
storing  their  blankets^  or  linens,  or  Sunday 
finery.  Such  are  still  to  be  found  in  many 
Scottish  homes  in  the  rural  districts.  They 
were  used  to  store  small  articles  which  from 
their  size  might  get  lost  in  the  capacious 
recesses  of  the  "  kiat."  W,  K  Wilson. 

Hawick, 

[Many  other  replies  are  acknowledged.] 

Plough  Monday  Mumueeies  (9"*  S.  vii 
3Sfi,  363}.— 'There  i^  an  account  of  these 
rutic  »miiJiementB  to  be  found,  accompanied 


with  an  engraving*  in  Chambers's  *  Book  of 
Days,*  vol  i,  pp,  84-6,  Plough  Monday  was 
the  first  itonday  after  Twelfth  Nighty  and  the 
cere m on ies  i  n dica ted  the  res u  m ption  of  labou  r 
after  the  Christmas  holidays.  They  seem 
to  have  differed  materially  from  the  '*  mum- 
ming" at  Christmas,  when  the  play  of  'St. 
George'  was  usually  acte^I.  Allow  me  to 
refer  your  readers  who  take  an  interest  in 
these  matters  to  an  account  of  "  mumming " 
^von  in  '  The  Return  of  the  Native/  bv 
Thomas  Hardy,  chap,  v,,  entitled  'Through 
the  Moonlight/  He  is  in  stories  of  humble 
life  what  Itobert  Bloomfield  and  John  Clare 
are  in  poetry.  John  Pickpobd,  M.A. 

Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

"In  comes  I,  ohs  [I've?]  never  been 
before."  "Ohs"  is  the  Lincolnshire  form 
of  **  who  *8  "= who  has.  I  have  seen  '*  o  "  for 
"who"  in  an  epitaph  in  Winterton  Church- 
yard and  in  a  Winterton  sampler,  and  have 
often  beard  it.  J.  T.  F. 

Durham. 

''Bernaedus  !tok  vidit  omnia":  "Blind 
Bayard"  (B^^  S.  v.  356,  441,  506 ;  vii.  369).— 

When  Roland  brave  and  Olivier, 
And  every  paladin  and  peer, 
On  RoncesvaUes  died. 

The  lines  coDcerning  which  Mr.  Curry 
inquires  are  tn  ^Marmion^'  canto  vi.  stanza 
xxxiii.  See  also  ^  Rob  Roy,'  chap,  ii.,  where 
Scott  unconsciously  and  unintentionally 
quotefl  (not  verbatim)  a  couple  of  lines  from 
the  same  stanza  of  *  Marmion,'  just  before 
those  quoted  by  Mr.  Curry  and  myself. 

Jonathan  Bouchier. 

Kopl^,  Hampshire. 

[Many  other  replies  are  acknowledged.] 

Serjeant  HAWKiHa  (9^  S.  vi.  274 ;  vii.  154). 
—To  clear  up  a  matter  touched  upon  at  the 
earlier  reference  i  I  have  learnt  through  the 
courtesy  of  the  Chapter  Clerk  that  the  Nor- 
wich Chapter  Act  Book  has  an  entry  showing 
that  Wilham  Hawkins,  D.D.,  prebendary  of 
Norwich  1667-83,  died  before  the  installation 
in  1683  of  hia  successor.  It  is  therefore  clear 
that  he  and  William  Hawkins,  D.D.,  pre- 
bendary of  Winchester  1668-91,  were  dis- 
tinct persons. 

The  Norwich  prebendary  had  a  son  and  a 
grandson,  both  also  named  William  Hawkins, 
who  were  successively  rectors  of  Simonds- 
bury  :  t|ie  former  from  10  September,  1716, 
until  his  death  circa  1735,  and  the  latter,  his 
predecessor's  son,  from  29  April,  1735,  until 
his  death  circa  1739  ;  see  Hutchins,  'History 
of  Dorset'  (edition  1861-7QV  '^oV.  yl,  ^.  '^AS^., 
where  i%  is  %Wv^  tWt.  tJt\e?j  ^«Wk^^»R««A3W35gk 


478 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     w-*  s.  vn.  juhe  15.  mol 


o£  Sir  John  Hawkins^  the  circumnavigatort 
but  the  course  of  such  descent  is  unfortu- 
nately not  traced.  H*  C. 

"PEE30NATE"^REaOUKI>  (9***  S-  I  388  J  ii, 
131). — I  raised  this  diacussion  belie  vine  that 
"personate"  had  not  been  recorded  with  this 
moanitig  io  any  English  dictionary*  But  in 
that  of  £.  Colea  (London^  16MJ)  you  will  see 
"  Personate,  L  [i.e.,  Latin],  to  repreaent  ones 
person  ;  also  to  sound  aloud,"  Also  in  *  Gloa- 
aograpliia ;  or  a  Dictionary  interpreting  the 
Hard  Woraa,^ic.,  by  Thomas  Blount  (London, 
1674X  one  finds :  ^*^ Personate  (persono%  to  sound 
out,  or  perfectly ;  to  make  a  great  noise.  But 
PeriOJiaU  (from  persona)  is  more  commonly 
taken  to  represent  the  person  of  another." 

"A  HAGO"  (9^*^  S,  vii.  408X--An  erratic 
spelling  of  hogo,  formerly  hogoo,  as  in  Ooles's 
*Engliah -Latin  Diet.,'  1677  ed,,  where  it  is 
rendered  "sapor  vehemens,  aoris."  Bailey 
defines  it  as  a  high  savour  or  relish  ;  also  a 
stink,  a  noisome  or  offensive  amelL"  Iloao  is 
a  corruption  of  Fr,  haut  goUt,  employed  by 
Fuller  (see  Palmer's  *  Folk -Etymology/  p.  173), 
but  has  now  dropped  out  of  London  speech, 
being  superseded  by  a  further  corruption, 
fogo,  a  stench.  F.  Adams. 

Mb,  Dobobok  will  find  this  in  all  the  best 
dictionanes,  but  he  must  look  for  it  under 
the  spelling  kogo,  not  ha^o.  The  *  Century 
Dictionary  calls  it  **  an  English  spellinK  of 
French  haut  godt^  high  flavor."  OgiTvie 
describes  it  as  **  corru|>ted  from  French  kaut 
goilt"  Dr  Murray  givea  it  as  *'ang!icii£ed 
spelling  of  French  haut  goUi,  high  savour  or 
flavour."  Jas.  Platt,  Jun, 

[Many  replies  Io  the  same  effect  ihre  acknowledged.] 

Wall  Calendaes  with  Quotatioks  feom 
Bhaeespbabs  {^^  B.  vii.  209,  334). —  Me. 
CuBEy,  when  he  says  that  Phsedr'ua,  not 
jEsop,  was  the  author  of  the  fable  of  the  two 
wallets,  has  overlooked  the  fact  that  both 
Ph«edrus  and  Babriua  refer  to  ^Esop  as  their 
original.  The  first  linea  of  Phsedrus  are 
the&e  i — 

^aopua  aiictor  quani  tnateriftm  reppedt, 

Hanc  ^^Q  polivi  versibus  sen&riia. 

That  Phawirus  and  Babrius  now  and  then 
insert  in  their  collections  fables  of  their  own 
1  can  well  believe.  But  when  they  both  tell 
the  same  fable— and  they  both  have  told 
that  of  the  two  wallets— it  aeem#  certain 
that  the  fable  was  told  originally  by  jEsop. 

I  M  sorry  when  great  authors  are  deprived    ^^  ^j^^  ^        ^^^  ^^^  indefaiiKabk  haiid.^  Mr 
without  cause  of  any  Tfmrt  of  thcrr  glory.    Ba*ent  the  volamefl  of  the  ^Aeto  rf^©  priiT 
JBeD   Jqqwqu  gives  sufficient  evide^u^^  m^^Xc^oe^As^^'  vut^so^od  eftch  other  at  wbAfe  i  * 


Shakapeare  wrote  the  plays  ascribed  to  hina. 
Horace,  Longinus,  and  other  classical  authora 
speak  of  Homer  as  the  author  both  of  the 
*  Iliad*  and  the  *  Odyssey.'  Aristotle,  krm- 
tophanes^  Pbeedrus,  Babrius,  Aulus  Gellitti^ 
and  otbera  give  testimony  which  shows  that, 
many  well -known  fables  are  rightly  attri- 
buted to  iEsop.    We  have  no  cause  to  doubt. 

E.  Yardley. 

'  Captain  Clutterbuck*s  Ohampagke  '  {Z^ 
S.  vi.  350).— This  tale,  which  appeared  in 
Blackwood  in  1861,  and  was  reprinted  in 
book  form  in  the  following  yoar^  is  not  b? 
Michael  Scott  author  of  *Tom  Cringl/a 
Log/  as  atated  at  the  above  referenca,  but 
by  George  Hamley,  brother  of  Sir  Edward 
B.  Haraley.  P.  J.  Anderson. 

University  Library,  Aberdeen. 

Delagoa  Bay  (9"^  S.  vii.  407  430).— Delagoa 
Bay  was  claimed  by  both  England  and  Portn- 
gal.  The  question  was  referred  to  arbitra- 
tion, and  General  MacMahon  in  August,  lff75, 
awarded  it  to  Portugal.  This  probably  wm 
the  origin  of  the  report  named  by  your  corre- 
spondent. EvERARD  Home  Coleaiaii, 

*' Porte-manteau "  (9^  S.  iv.  536),- In 
Thomas  Middleton's  play  *The  Widow'  (IV. 
ii,)  Latrouoio,  one  of  the  thieves,  ''disguised 

as  an  empiric,*'  exclaims  i— 

When  the  highways  grow  thin  with  tr&veller», 
And  few  portmanteaui  stirring,  as  all  trades 
Have  Iheir  dead  time,  we  see  tliieverj  poor  takimpi 
Alfred  F.  Bobbins, 

Latin  Motto  (9"^  S,  vii.  368).— So  far  as  I 
can  judge  from  the  information  given,  I 
should  say  that  the  proper  form  of  the 
motto  would  be  **Scientia  fidaciam  plenam 
provocare,"  "By  knowledge  to  ^i  forth  full 
confidence."  In  that  case  we  must  suppose 
both  "fiducia"  and  "plena"  to  have  oeea 
originally  written  "fiducia*'  and  "plenV 
the  long  mark  (as  commonly)  indicating  the 
pec n liar  contraction*  Of  the  source  I  am 
Ignorant.  Perhaps  some  one  else  can  famish 
a  more  correct  explanation.  Anyhow,  I 
should  think  **  plenus  "  must  be  wrong. 

C*  Lawrence  Foedl  BA- 

Bath.  _^__^_    _ 

NOTES  ON  BOOKS.  4a 

Ads  of  the  privy  Council  of  WngiamtL    New  Btrim 

-Vol. xxo.  AD. isfti-^r  vs. xxm  Z^ix, 

Edited  by  John  Eoche  Daaeat^  C.E,     (Erre  k 

SpottiiwoodeJ 


9»8.viLJnK.i5,i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


479 


an  accelerating  rate.  For  reasons  which  the  editor 
ezplalDS  it  has  been  found  impossible  to  get  into 
one  volume,  bulky  as  this  is,  the  whole  of  the 
MS.  constituting  what  is  known  in  the  Council 
Office  Collection  as  Elizabeth  Vol.  X.,  106  pages 
out  of  nearly  GOO  having  to  appear  in  the  following 
volume.  Among  matters  of  jpicturesque  and  his- 
torical interest  is  the  death  m  the  Tower  of  2Sir 
John  Perrott,  the  natural  son  of  Henry  VIII.  and 
consequently  the  brother  of  the  queen.  Not  the 
slightest  allusion  can  we  trace  to  the  circumstances 
under  which  this  brave  and  turbulent  spirit  passed 
away,  but  it  is  eas^  to  believe  that  his  departure 
was  a  matter  of  relief  to  the  Council.  French  wars 
and  the  support  afforded  to  Henry  IV.  in  his  con- 
test with  the  League  occupy  a  considerable  space, 
and  there  is  (p.  50*2)  an  account  of  a  disaster  to  the 
troops  of  the  Princes  of  Conty  and  Dombes  at  the 
hanos  of  Spaniards  and  **Bretaignes"  under  the 
Duke  of  Mercury  (Mercceur),  in  which  the  English 
contingent  serving  with  the  two  princes  was  sadly 
mauled.  News  of  this  calamity  was  received  by 
the  Council  on  the  last  day  of  May.  1692.  No  great 
discouragement  was,  however,  felt,  and  the  first 
item  in  Vol.  XXIU.  (1  July,  1592)  deals  with  the 
dispatch  of  2,550  troop  from  the  Low  Countries  to 
reinforce  Sir  John  Norris.  Resolute  as  was  the 
Council,  the  public  response  was  scarcely  adequate, 
and  we  find  the  Mayor  of  Rye  protesting  that,  as 
there  were  no  walls  to  his  town,  he  was  unable  to 
prevent  desertion.  Great  care  had  to  be  exercised 
to  prevent  the  recruits  catching  the  plague  or 
suffering  from  '*the  new  ague,'^  a  disease  then 
prevalent.  Difficulties  of  transport  seem  also  to 
nave  been  almost  insuperable.  Everywhere  the 
complaint  is  made  of  lack  of  funds.  Money  could, 
however,  be  produced  for  her  Majesty's  amusements, 
and  we  find  warrants  to  the  Vice-Chamberlain  and 
Treasurer  to  "paie  to  the  servantes  of  our  verie 
good  Lord  the  Earle  of  Hartfort  for  a  plaie  enacted 
before  her  Majestic  one  [ttic]  the  Twelfenight  last 
the  some  of  ten  poundes."  A  following  warrant 
is  for  the  payment  to  the  Lord  Straunge^B  servants 
of  forty  pounds,  and  "by  waie  of  her  Majesty's 
rewarde  t  wen  tie  pownds'^  for  "six  severall  plates 
by  them  enacted  before  her  Majestic  at  the  Court 
at  Whitehall"  on  "St.  John's  daie.  Innocents' daie, 
Newyeare's  daie,  Sonday  next  after  Twelfe  daie, 
8hrove  Sondaie  and  Shrove  Twesdaie."  Payments 
to  the  Earl  of  Sussex's  men  and  to  the  queen's  own 
players  are  also  mentioned.  Once  more  we  have  to 
express  our  regret  that  so  little  information— in 
fact,  no  information  at  all— is  supplied  us  concern- 
ing the  pieces  given.  Knowledge  of  the  kind  would 
fill  up  some  gaps  in  our  stage  information.  We  still 
hear  much  concerning  recusants  and  concerning 
seminary  priests  and  Jesuits.  Commissions  to 
search  for  them  and  examine  those  committed  by 
the  Council  are  granted.  The  state  of  England 
seems  to  have  been  more  settled  than  before,  but 
abductions  are  still  attempted,  and  deeds  of  violence 
on  the  part  of  masterless  men  and  others  have  to  be 
dealt  with.  The  inhabitants  of  Muche  Wendon  in 
Essex  make  grievous  complaint  against  one  John 
Feltwell,  "a  verie  troublesome  and  contencious 
person  who  prosecuted  divers  frivolous  suites 
against  them  to  their  great  charge  and  vexaoion." 
One  gets,  indeed,  from  these  volumes  a  livelier 
picture  ot  life  in  England  under  Elizabeth  than  can 
be  elsewhere  obtained.  Mr.  Dasent's  prefaces  con- 
dense admirably  what  is  of  most  historical  value  in 
the  matters  of  which  his  volumes  treat. 


BeowtUf.  and  the  Fight  at  Finnsburah,    Translated 
by  John  R.  Clark  Hall,  M.A.    (Sonnenschein  k 

Those  who  seek  to  form  an  acquaintance  with  a 
picture  of  Anglo-Saxon  life  such  as  is  furnished 
in  the  lay  of  *  Beowulf '  cannot  do  so  better  than 
in  the  clever,  scholarly,  and  eminently  readable 
translation  into  modem  English  prose  of  Dr.  Clark 
Hall.  *  Beowulf,'  it  is  recoKnized,  gives  us  a  picture 
of  the  life  of  heroes  and  ox  the  weapons  employed 
by  them  as  vivid  as  is  supplied  in  the  case  of  the 
Greeks  by  Homer.  No  fewer  than  three  trans- 
lations practically  appear:  the  first  in  the  shape 
of  an  argument  heading  each  "Fit,"  the  second 
in  a  connected  and  explanatory  summary,  and 
the  third  in  the  regular  rendering.  There  is  in 
addition  an  introduction  supplying  all  information 
concerning  the  poem,  its  autnority,  and  the  existing 
MS.  in  the  British  Museum  Library,  a  facsimile 
reproduction  of  a  page  of  which  is  given.  Besides 
these  things,  twelve  pages  of  illustrations  of  armour, 
offensive  weapons,  and  ornaments,  with  a  map, 
notes,  indexes  of  names  and  things,  &c.,  render 
the  edition  ideaL  It  is  likely  to  be  of  highest 
service  in  the  school  curriculum  and  to  the  more 
advanced  student. 

The  Dunbar  Anthology,  I4OI-I6U8 ;  The  Coioper 
Anthology,  IH 5-1800.  Edited  by  Prof.  Edward 
Arber,  F.S.A.  (Frowde.) 
The  two  volumes  of  the  "British  Anthologies" 
now  issued  are  numbered  resi>ectively  I.  ana  X., 
and  are  supposed  to  complete  the  series  to  which 
they  belong.  Without  supplying  every  poem  the 
reader  is  likely  to  desire,  the  series  is  the  most 
ambitious  and  comprehensive  that  has  yet  appeared. 
Those  who  can  be  contented  with  anthologies  may 
well  rest  satisfied  with  the  work  now  finished, 
and  those  even  who  prefer  the  complete  works  of 
the  poets,  and  are  not  disposed  to  accept  any 
"  taster,"  may  well  find  pleasure  in  glancing  over 
poems  to  be  found  in  few  collections,  or  even,  as  in 
the  case  of  *The  Dunbar  Anthology,'  to  refresh 
their  memories  of  works  they  have  read  before. 
In  *  The  Dunbar  Anthology,'  which  is  the  earliest 
in  date  of  the  ten  volumes,  are  included  the  poems 
of  Occleve  (or  Hoccleve),  Lydgate,  and  other  con- 
temporaries of  Chaucer.  Few  are  those  who  have 
read  these.  We  are  of  the  few,  however,  having, 
apart  from  other  perusal,  gone  through  the  writings 
with  a  view  of  supplying  materials  for  the  Philo- 
logical Society  now  happily  incorporated  into  the 

*  H.E.D.'  Small  enough  is  the  poetic  worth  of  these 
writers,  though  that  of  Dunoar,  Henryson,  and 
Valois,  Duke  of  Orleans,  is  greater.  The  best 
poems  in  the  volume  are,  however,  anonymous, 
consisting  of  ballads  such  as  *  The  Battle  of  Otter- 
burn,'  *  Chevy  Chase,'  *  The  Nut-Brown  Maid,'  and 

*  Adam  Bell,  Clim  of  the  Clough,  and  William  of 
Cloudeslee.' 

*The  Cowger  Anthology'  comprises,  among 
other  poets,  William  Blake,  Robert  Burns,  Cole- 
ridge, Lamb,  Southey,  and  Wordsworth,  and  does 
not,  accordingly,  suffer  from  want  of  material. 
The  whole  of  *Christaber  and  *The  Ancient 
Mariner'  is  given.  Southey  is  poorly  represented ; 
but  very  little  of  his  work  was  produced  during 
the  period  covered.  We  are  glad  to  find  some 
spirited  songs  of  Joanna  Baillie,  and  could  have 
done  with  more.  Are  not  "  The  winds  whistle  cold 
and  the  stars  glimmer  red"  and  "  Hart  and  \\vqi.^ 
are  in  theis  uiax"  Vi  \i^t\    ^^EksiM  ^  <»sgX^x:^  \Aa^ 


480 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    t9'»&viLJnrai5,i9ra. 


elapoed  liDoe  we  loat  heard  theoif  And  memory  k  no 
longer  truBt worthy*  (yKeefe  supplicB  the  famous 
**  Amo,  amas,  I  love  b,  la«s/'  and  **  I  am  a  Friar  of 
Orders  Grey."  HU  lyricul  gifts  have  been  under* 
rated.  Many  of  the  patter  songs  he  wrote  for  John 
Edwin  or  othera  are  better  than  anything  of  the 
kind  that  has  been  written  eiuoe.  Mr^.  Grant  of 
L^ggan  Btipplies  a  single  poem.  Tom  War  top  *i 
eoDtributiona  are  instgnificont ;  but  he  waa  better 
AS  a  scholar  and  a  critic  than  aa  a  poet* 

We  eongratulat^i  Prof.  Arber  on  his  a^complifih- 
menL  lb  adds  one  more  to  the  priceless  Bervices 
he  has  rendered  the  lover  of  literature,  Hb  ta^k 
h&a«  it  ie  needless  to  say,  been  well  executed. 
He  ifl,  however^  in  one  or  two  instancea  a 
little  pedantic,  as  when  he  prints  a  line  from 
C^mpnoi' 

*Tia  for  a  Thousand  Poiind[a]  1 
and  one  from  a  haU&d 

More  than  seven  year{s]. 
Surely  the  brackets  are  in  each  caae  enfterfluoui, 
"  Pound"  has  to  rime  with  *'  around^"  and  the  use 
of    **a  thousand    pound"  is  no  longer  dialectaL 
Thaekeray,  moreover,  has— has  he  not  7~ 

Wait  till  you  come  to  forty  year. 
With  this  mildest  of  g^runte  we  diamisa  two  delight- 
ful book  a  and  a  no  leas  delightful  aeriee. 

Scribn^r's  Magazine  has  some  travel  articles  of 
great  medt.  The  new  part  of  Mr.  Henry  Norman's 
^Russia  of  To-day'  deale  with  Finland,  and  is  pro- 
foundly interesting.  The  deBtgns,  too,  are  e^^^oellent, 
and  a  picture  which  heada  it  of  *  Finnish  Types  *  ia 
quite  enchanting.  The  reproduction  of  the  laugh- 
ing faces  of  mother  and  daughter  n&enm  worth 
republication  on  an  enlarged  scale*  Not  less  good 
as  regards  either  letterpress  or  illustrations  is  *  A 
First  Day  in  the  South  Seas/  which  we  read  with 
great  pleasure  and  contentment.  *The  Scottish 
University'  is  no  tesa  valuable.  There  is  also  much 
admirable  Action,  the  entire  number  being  moat 
readable. 

To  Man  Mr,  W.  T.  Newton  sends  an  acoonnt 
of  the  disco veries  of  flint  impleinents  a  couple  of 
years  ago  at  Greenhithe,  illustrations  being  given 
of  both  the  rudest  and  the  moat  finished  s|:iecinienSj 
many  of  them  from  Mr.  New  ton ''b  own  collection. 
No  hnd  in  the  West  Kent  palieolithic  diatricls  has 
had  equal  interest.  Mr.  N,  W.  Thomas  gives  an 
aceonnt  of  the  plans  of  the  Austi^lian  ethnological 
eitnodition  undertaken  by  Messrs,  Spencer  and 
Gillen,  whose  admirable  work  on  *The  Native 
Tribes  of  Central  Australia  *  we  reviewed  a  year  or 
two  ago.  The  eicjiensea  of  the  important  task  under- 
taken are  borne  by  private  individuals  and  the 
Australian  Government.  Mr*  Andrew  Lang  returns 
to  '  Tho  Martyrdom  of  St.  Daeius/  and  disputes 
aFreah  the  idea  that  a  king  was  aver  aacrificed  to 
release  the  god  whom  he  incarnatea,  and  holds 
that  no  one  would  have  accepted  such  a  "  billet.'' 
M.  Capart  also  senda  a  long  and  important  paper 
9u  ^  Algerian  Ethnography.^ 

The  latest  issue  of  the  Jaumai  tifthe  E^-Lihris 
Society  announces  the  annual  meeting  for  the  28th 
InatM  and  the  editor,  Mr.  W.  IL  K,  Wright,  aaks 
for  ejEhibits,  No.  19  of  'Modern  Book -Plates/ 
by  the  editor,  deals  with  the  work  of  Mr.  Allan 
WyoHj  F,S,A^,  who  is  said  to  have  perhaps ! 
designed  more  book-pktes  and  mwlilft  Imn  ani 


man  living.     Many  admirable   apeciiiieiia   of  his 

works  ar^  reproduc(?d. 

So  far  as  can  be  traced,  Sir  Walter  Bes&nt  was  not 
a  contributor  to  '  N.  &  Q/  As  author  of  many  excel- 
lent books  he  c&lls  for  a  record*  A  special  aervic-e  to 
archfieology  was  rendered  in  hia  writing!  on  West- 
minster. East  London,  and  South  London,  in  which 
he  popularized  or.  as  th©  French  would  aay,  "■*  val- 
ganged  ^^  antiquarian  information.  W^e are  curious 
to  know  if  he  has  left  any  MSB.  concerning  North 
London,  in  which  he  had  lon^  be«n  a  resident,  and 
in  the  antif^nities  of  which  he  took  a  zealous  and 
enlightened  mt«pest.  That  much  matter  of  interest 
exists  among  his  jvaiiers  may  safely  be  assnmed*  It 
is  not  easy  to  conjeLture  who  is  capable  of  ^earins 
hia  nisntte*  It  m  to  be  hoi>ed  that  he  has  appointed 
a  competent  literaiy  eirecutor* 

A  NEW  volume  by  Prof*  Skeat,  entitled  *  Notes 
on  English  Etymology,'  will  be  issued  sliortly  from 
the  Oxford  University  Press*  It  contuui  an 
introduction  of  an  autobiographical  kind,  and  a 
reproduction  of  the  iKjr trait  presented  by  sahsrrip- 
tion  t^  Christ *s  College,  Cambridge,  of  which  the 
author  Is  Fellow,  Most  of  the  pages  are  made  up 
of  reprints  of  stray  artiales*  and  the  whole  may  be 
described  as  a  companion  volume  to  *  A  Student's 
Pastime*' 

The  index  to  the  first  ten  volumes  of  'Book- 
Prices  Current/  which  has  been  in  course  of  com- 
pilation  for  soujo  time,  is  now  completed,  and  will 
l>e  publiahed  by  Mr.  Elliot  Stock  very  shortly.  The 
index  is  so  arran|fed  that  under  any  one  author's 
name  all  the  copies  of  bis  works  sold  during  the 
decade  are  brought  together,  and  their  varying 
prices  and  states  are  seen  at  one  view.  The  work 
contains  in  all  33,000  distinct  titles  and  over  500,000 
references,  iShakespeare  alone  having  over  1,100. 


$0tkef  to  %on£M^smhmt%. 

notice  ;— 

On  all  eommunioations  must  be  written  the  nune 
and  addrees  of  the  sender,  not  neceeaarily  for  pub- 
lication! but  as  a  guarantee  of  good  f&ith. 

W  E  cannot  undertake  to  answer  queries  privately. 

To  aecure  insertion  of  com muiii cation*  oorre- 
spondents  must  ohaerve  the  following  rules.  Let 
each  note,  query,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  separate 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  and 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appe&r.  When  answer- 
ing queries,  or  making  notes  with  regiu'd  to  previom 
entriea  in  the  i)at>er,  contributors  are  rt;queaied  (o 
put  in  parenthesee,  immediately  after  the  exs^ 
heading,  the  aeriefl,  volume,  and  page  or  paitM  to 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  repeit 
queries  are  requested  to  head  the  aeoond  cod- 
muni  cation  **  Duplicate," 

F*  Ekdhond.^  You  should  add  a  headtAig,  as  tbe 

rules  suggest. 

Editorial  communioMiona  should  be  addressed  to 
"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Queries  *  *'— Advertiw 
ments  and  Business  Letters  to  **The  Pablisher''- 
at  theOtEce,  Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  KC 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  w©  decline  to  return 
communications  whieb,  for  any  reason^  we  do  mt 
^nut;  and  to  this  mle  we  can  make  ao  exoeptiea 


9*8.viLJuNii5,i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.C., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DEPARTMENT 


TKB  roLLOWDre 


MAOAZIHB8  AHD 
BBVIBW8. 


WITHOBAWN  FROM 
OIROULATION. 


LIBRARY  COPIES 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  tbe   United  Kingdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

Unti)  farther  notioe  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


Argoay 

Blaekwood't      

Century 

Oontempormry  Beview 

OornhillT.       

BDgUeh  lUofltrated   ... 
FbrtnlghUy  Beview  ... 

Harpers 

Loncman't       


*.  4. 

7  6 

13  0 

10  6 

itf  0 

7  6 

&  0 

16  0 

9  0 

6  0 


Macmillan't      

Monthly  Beview 
NatioDAl  Beview 
Nineteenth  Century  ... 

Pall  Mall  

Bevue  dee  Deux  Mondet 

Soribner't  

Temple  Bar      


rim  kMKvm 

t. 

4. 

...      7 

(^ 

...     16 

0 

...     15 

u 

...     16 

0 

...      8 

6 

...     80 

0 

...      7 

6 

...      7 

6 

Bdinbnrgh 


QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
7    6 1  Quarterly  


7    6 


The  terms  will  be  it.  6d.  per  annum  less  to  Sabscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookstalls  to 
have  the  Magaxines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  than 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subscribed  for, 
It  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSORIPTIONS  MAY  COMMENCA  AT  ANY  DATJB. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 


vv. 


H.       SMITH       &       SON, 


186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  ike  Railway  Bookttallt,  to  whieh  placet  they  will  be  forwarded  ea^rriage  free. 


THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED. 

CBNTUBY  MAGAZIHB,  The.    Vol.  90       

LONDON  BOCIBTY.    3  volt,  for  1801         

2  volt,  for  189a         

048SBLL'S  MAGAZINB.    Vul.  for  Docember,  1898,  to  Mav,  l^W).    Illustrated  . 

Vol.  for  June  tft  November,  1899     Illustrated        

Vol.  for  December,  1899,  to  May,  1900 


CHAMBBBS'S  JOUBNAL  of  POPULAK  LITBBATUKB.  SCIKNCB.  and  ABTS. 

Vol.  for  1895 

Vol.  for  1898 

Vol.  for  1899 

QUIVBB  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  April.  1K98    ... 

Z November.  1898,  to  April,  1899    ... 

May  to  October.  1»99  

QOOD  WOBDS.    VoU.  for  1888, 189*2, 1894.  1895,  1897,  and  1806 
SUNDAY  M40AZINB.     Volt,  for  1889.  1892,  1894, 1895,  and  1808 


Vol.  for  1802. 


PvbUtbstf    oflbre 


W.  H.  SMITH  Ac  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY,  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  000  BaUway  Bookitalli,  to  which  plaoee  Snbtoribera  oaa  be  traaiferred,  free  of  charge. 

Prupeet^9 ^f  Terwu,  4c.  MMtyVw iqMii appUeaUon  to  286,  UTEAND^  LONDQti. 


at 

«.  d 

2  6 
8  6 

3  6 
2  6 
2  6 

2  6 
3 

3  6 
3  6 
3  « 
2  « 
2  6 
2  6 
2  6 
2  6 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     w-*  8.  vn.  jum  im9ol 

"  The  Oardeneri*  Chronicle  has  faithfully  held  to  its  promises.  It  is  still,  to-daj,  the  best  gmrdeniog 
joornal,  being  indispensable  equally  to  the  practical  gardener  and  the  man  of  science,  because  each 
finds  in  it  something  asefiiL    We  wish  the  joamal  still  farther  success." — 6farten  Flora,  Berlin,  Jan.  15. 

**The  Qardeneri"  Chronicle  is  the  leading  horticultural  journal  of  the  world,  and  an  historicil 
publication.  It  has  always  excited  our  respectful  admiration.  A  country  is  honoured  by  the  possession 
of  such  a  publication,  and  the  greatest  honour  we  can  aspire  to  is  to  furnish  our  own  country  with  s 
journal  as  admirably  conducted."— Xa  Semaine  HortiooU,  Feb.  18, 1897. 

<*  The  Oardenert*  Chronicle  is  the  most  important  horticultural  journal  in  the  world,  and  the  i 
generally  acknowledged  authority." — Le  Afonitettr  tTHortieuUuref  Sept.,  1898. 


The   Oldest  Horticultural   Newspaper. 

THE 


.?.!  GARDENERS'    ±' 
CHRONICLE. 


T       n-TRONTri  R     z 


(The   'Times'   of  Horticulture.) 


FOR  SIXTY  YEARS  THE  LEADING  JOURNAL. 


Its  Contributors  oomprise  the  most 

Experienced  British  Gardeners, 

and  many  of  the  most 

Eminent  Men  of  Science 

at  Home  and  Abroad.  

IT  HAS  AN  INTERNATIONAL  REPUTATION  FOR  ITS  ILLUSTRATIOKS 

OF  PLANTS. 


Specimen  Copy  post  free  on  application  to  the  Publisher, 

H.  G.  COVE,  41,  Wellington  Street,  Strand,  London. 

Telegraphic  Address-aARDCHRON,  LONDON.  Telephone  No.  ms  OXRBABIX 

%*  Mmp  he  ordered  of  all  Booksellers  and  Newsagents,  and  at  the  BaUwap  BoobiaBi, 

Prlmfd  br  JOHN  BOWA&D  ¥a\llClA.  \theu«um  Vt««^'ftNMB:%%QaaAVi«t,<%uiQerf  Lm*.  ■.O.  i  ai4  FftMMMi  If 


NOTES    AND   QUEKIES: 

%  HUintm  oi  |nUr(0mmnniatton 

lOB 

LITERART    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 


**WheB  fonnd,  make  a  note  ot^'^GAPTAiH  Cuttlb. 


No.  182.  [ii?S.]         Saturday,  June  22,  1901.  { J^^^^^:;:^. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.— The  SUBSCRIPTION 
to  If  0TB8  Airo  QUBRIU  free  bj  pott  le  10«.  M.  tor  Six  Months ; 
or  Ste.  M.  for  Twolro  Monttae.  inetadinr  the  Volome  Index  .-40UM  C. 
VEAXCIB,  NtfU*  amd  Qmritt  Ofliee,  BroMn'e  Bnlldinfe.  Chnneerj  Lnne. 


B' 


{OOKS,  MSS.,  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  k 

OO.,  AnetionoerB  of  Boohe  nnd  Lltervy  Property  of  orerj 
«eeeilptton.  Llbnuiee  nnd  ennUer  Oollc^ons  cnrefully  UMnlOfnod 
■nd  promptly  oArod  tor  Snle.  Fneklnir  nnd  BemoTnl  nnmnged  for. 
Tnlnntlons  mode  for  Probnto  or  other  porpoeoe.  AneUon  Booms.  lU^ 
Ohnneerr  Lnne  (Fleet  Street  end).    — ^"^ 


BsinffiSMdUO 


CATALOGUE    of    ENGRAVED 
Fnrt  II.  (HBH-B06)  now  rend; 
pwnrds  of  8.600  Portmits  <n  ~    ' 


npwnrds 
Agrmtm 
MTBooki 


.sellers'  Row,  Stmnd,  London, 


PORTRAlTa 
line  (with  Fnrt  I.) 

T  the  best  Artlstt  nnd 

on  nppUention.— MTBBS  ft  BOOIBS, 
ndon,  W.O. 


BOOKS,  RARE  and  OUT  of  PRINT,  SUPPLIED. 
Flense  stnte  wnnta.  CATALOOUBS  free.  Llbinrios  sad  Smnll 
Fsroels  of  Books  Pnrdissed  for  Ossh.  Dlstnnoe  no  ob}eet.  Speeinl 
List  of  WnnU  free.-HOLLAMD  00.  Book  Mei«hnats.  BinnlBthnm. 


BOOKS.— ALL  OUT-OF-PRINT  BOOKS  sup- 
plied, no  mnttnr  on  whnt  Smbjeet.  Aeknowledced  the  woeld  over 
ns  the  moat  expert  Bookflndere  estsnt.  Please  •tote  wnnte.— BAKBR'S 
Orent  Bookshop.  U^tt,  John  Brtffht  Street,  Birwlnghnm 


C 


ULLBTON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

for  Benrehes  nnd  Avthentie  Inf  ormntlon  rsepeotlnff 

ARMORIAL   BBARINOS  AMD  FAMILY    DBSCBHTB, 

With  n  Sepnnte  Depnrtment  for  the  Artlstle  Prodaetlon  of 

HBRALDIO  PAINTING  AND  BNORATINO. 


Book-Plntes,  Senls,  Dies,  Signet  Rings,  LlTorf  Batb 

Fnper,  Tlsiting  nnd  Invltntion  Osrds,  «c. 

as.  FIOCADILLT.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Oreen  Pnrk). 


ATHEN^UM     PRESS.— JOHN 
FRANCIS,  Printer  of  the  Athtmmum. 
pswMVd  to  SUBMIT  BBTIMATBS  for  all 

■ndTpBr 


EDWARD 


PBRIODIOAL    PRINTING.— U, 
RC. 


-WmU 

kinds  of  BOOK,  MBWS. 
n's   Bnlldlngs,   *"" 


THE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER- PAD. 
(The  LBADBMBALL  PRB8S.  Ltd..  PabUshers  and  Pilalin, 
W.  IrtaitnhsU  Svoet.  homiim,  RO.) 
Ooninlns  hnirleee'  pnper.  OTOr  wbleh  the   pen  tUpe  with   perteet 
fireedom.    Slxpenee  sneh.   ft*,  per  dosen.  rnled  or  pUn.   MewPoeket 
sue.  Be.  per  doson,  rated  or  plain.  ,  _ 

Anthon  shoaid  bom  thns  The  T.sn4enhnH  Fnee,  Ltd..  ennnot  bn 
rsspoa^MeforthelomotMSS.  by  Are  or  otherwise.    '^—" 


EXCHANGE  (or  would  SDB-LET)  for  THREE 
MOUTHS,  n  ROVSR  in  Sonth-Wost  Snbmrb  (661.  rental)  for  a 
RsBldsaee  la  tho  Orantry,  or  Senelde.— Apply  F.,  At 


MORING'S  QUARTERLY.  An  lUastrated 
Joumnl  doToted  to  Art,  Arehcology.  nnd  Hemldry.  of  whleh  the 
preeentntion  of  bnndsome  Plntes  Is  n  specinlity.  Prloe  U,,  or  by  post 
1«.  id.  i  or  Annnnl  SabeeripUon,  it.,  Indadlng  poetage. 


Th«  Cmtimu  9f  Ifo.  XVUI.  (Nnt  SeruMj,  « 

B8.    WlthSUlnstmtions.    ByRStnnley. 

BOMB  MODBRN  DUTCH  ABTI8TS.     With  S  Fall-Page  Plntee,  one 

of  whleh  Is  n  Photogmmre  prlntod  on  Plnte  Pnper. 
SHARBSPBABB'S    TRBATMBNT    of    the    B08BS    Of   YOBK   nnd 

LANUA8TBR.    By  Onlo  POdrlok.  F.]LHist.Soo. 
OFF  the  BBATBN  TRACK !  OMrteToroek  Castte.    lUnetmted.    By 

B.  Gibbon. 
An  ORIGINAL  OOPPBR  PLATB,  Jk  XAtm.  fte. 

The  DB  LA  MORS  FRBSS,  61.  High  Holborn,  London,  W.O. 


TBMTH  BDITION.  prion  Two  Shillings. 

riELESTIAL    MOTIONS:    a   Handy    Book    of 

\J    Astronomy.    Tenth  Bdition.    With  8  Plntee.    By  W.  T.  LYNN 
&A.  F.R.A.S. 

"  Well  known  ns  one  of  onr  boat  Introdnetions  to  astronomy." 


SAMPSON  LOW  ft  00.  St.  Dvnstnn's  Uovse,  Fitter  Uoe,  RO. 


(^TICKPHAST    PASTE    is   HEAPS  better  than 

Gnm  tor  stleklng  In  Semps,  Joining  Pnpers,  fte.    M.  nnd  It.  with 

^.  3,^^  ,^^  ^  Tojh   Send  two  sauaps  to  oorer  poetage 

Bottle,  molndlng  Bmah.    Fnetory,  Sngnr  Lonf  Oonrt, 
"  B.a    Of  nU  Stntloners.    Stlekphnet  Paste  stieks. 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

GOPFKB—SDGAR— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET,  W.C. 


■iktMHM.  Puis,  1100. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

Ochweppesiaoda; 

THESE  WATERS  (Boda,  Seltser,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonade,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,  Jcc.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 

r  ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER:.  ^ 
<  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN,  I 
(  In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  J 

ScHWEPPES,  LTD.,  LOVDOK^  MaLVEBJ^^ 

OLiNOlV,  UlTmKnOV*,  VUVKA^  VllSKVL,  vrfL ^VOSkVS^lOB^ 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     (9«'8.viLjnx.22.i«0L 

Crown  8to,  pp.  620,  doth,  FeraiaD  moroooo  back,  top  edge  gUt,  6«. 

CLASSICAL  AND  FOBEIGN  QUOTATIONS, 

Law  Terms  and  Maxims,  Proverbs,  Mottoes,  Phrases  and  Expressions 
in  French,  Gterman,  Greek,  Italian,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  Portoffuese, 

WITH    TRANSLATIONS,  REEERENCES,  EXPLANATORY    NOTES  and   INDEXES. 
By  WM.  FRANCIS  HENRY  KING,  M.A.,  Ch.  Ch.,  Oxford 


London:   J.   WHITAKER   ft  SONS,    12,   Warwick   Lane,   KC 


WHITAEER'S    PEERAGE. 

A   COMPLETE   PEESAOE,   BABONETAGE,   ENIGHTAOE  AKD 

COMPANIONAGE. 

Whitaker'8  Peerage  contains  eveiything  asnally  sought  for  in  a  work  of  the  kind,  with  many  particuliif 

not  to  be  found  elsewhere. 

ENLARGED   AND    IMPROVED. 

PRICE   TWO   SHILLINGS  AND   SIXPENOK. 

Or  full  royal  blue  roan,  gilt  edges,  48.  6d.  n«t. 


WHITAKER'S   ALMANACK   FOR    1901. 

This  has  been  again  enlarged  by  sixteen  pages,  and  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  InfonnstMB, 
oonlains  the  Members  of  the  New  Parliament^  the  newly  constituted  London  Borough  Coonoils,  and  the 
new  London  School  Board,  also  a  variety  of  other  interesting  Articles  on  snbjeote  of  Qeneral  Interast 

Crown  8vo,  paper  covers.  Is. ;  or,  with  Appendix,  half  bound,  28.  6d. 


London :  J.  WHITA.KER  &  SONS,  12,  Warwick  Laae,  BLC 


»-»s.viljukb22,i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


481 


IMSDON,  SATUEDAY,  JUNK  ff»  imh 


CONTENTS.-No.  182. 
KOTBS  s-CromwclUann,  ISI-T.  S.  Mulock.  iBa-OlMgow 

— Doclieafl  ol  GLei^eiuicl,  46G  — ^AnosU  of  iLl>eri1«eu '— 
*■  Totiean  "— *'  Hat  without  ft  tall  '*—*'  Froipeet,"  496. 

QUmRIBa  i— Enff«board— '  Sltuiitloii  of  Pwmajie  —  Danew, 
Auctioneer—"  Eeneli  "— Tiverna  In  Seven  DlaJ«  iwid  Soho 
—  "  SMvijr  trumpet*'*  48?  —  QJjwltton€  Volume  —  Sooti 
H«{reM  ft  IacLum  In  Solofnn— Bihlfogrftpbf  of  Unlfeml 
Hiatdry  —  ^'  Oftnnj  "i  "  CbevjHW  "  —  KipUng  StoriM  — 
"ChBrtttx  oryng«*"i  "Feumm  de  Ijittifli-"  — Oomlih 
Flww-ninne«— Fowfiering  Sllppert— " F&ll  below  pur"— 
Identlflcatlcpn  of  Arcnm,  4i8  —  A  "  PerfimptDry  "— "  Pint 
urobit  ■'  —  "  Hedge  "  in  Bwwri'i  BflAHj  '  On  Oftrdena  "— 
Author*  Wftnt«d,  i^. 

RBFLtBS  :— Hnnor  of  Tjbam,  489— Indied  Oljrelei  on 
Stones,  4(i|— WeUfa  MS.  Fe<1lgree>— Tovni  with  Changed 
Sites.  ipa^Quis  Heports— "  HoM  up  oil"— '  Piitdle  yfiur 
own  Cftnoe  *  —  Klngamftn  Fdmllj  —  Verbi  formed  from 
Proper  Bftmee.  iftS— Oonit^nM  <le  Slsgur— Hngliah  Repr*^ 
ftentfttJve  »t  Funeral  of  AIe?wndar  I,— Waltoti  Relic  — 
Omtler  mnd  Pustofftl  Staff,  iftS— C?l»y  Curio  CoUeOtor- 
DeslHTUitlan  of  Foreigner  In  Mexico,  49A— QuoUtlont^ 
The  AOi«dft  \n  Frf  emmfonry^— A  Qonip&nj  of  Mloera,  i97— 
Wmiein  HoDft,  4»a. 

NOTBS  ON  BOOKS  :-lAdy  Ruaidrt  '  Swftllowfield  '  — 
FhllllpH'A  '  The  TQken  Money  of  thf  Bank  of  Hngkncl  '— 
JeMopp't  'Before  the  Qreiit  Flllige '— Marrmj'i  Ifandf 
OUiBiCftl  M*pt.' 

Kotlcei  ta  Oorreipondenti. 


Sfftlf, 

CROMWELLIANA, 

It  is  not  easy  to  determine  to  which 
member  of  the  Cromwell  family  the  follow- 
ing letter  refers,  but  perhaps  some  reader  of 
•N,  ik  Q,*  may  be  aole  to  explain  it.  It 
should  be  observed  that  the  Mr,  Hetley  who 
writea  the  letter  is  the  person  accused  of 
mi-sbehaviotirj  not  Mr,  Cromwell  or  Sir 
Oliver,  At  first  it  appears  as  if  it  were  Mr* 
Cromwell  who  had  been  accused  of  gaming 
and  other  miademeaoours,  and  the  letter 
seemed  as  if  it  might  refer  to  the  future 
Protector  and  confirm  the  royalist  stories  of 
his  riotous  youth.  On  reading  it  carefully^ 
however,  it  oecomes  evident  that  this  is  not 
the  case.  This  document,  a  copy  presumably 
of  some  lost  original,  is  amongst  the  Montague 
Papers  included  in  the  Carte  Collection  in 
the  Bodleian  Library  (Carte  MS.  LXXIY, 
fo.494):— 

Sia,— Whereaa  (a«  we  are  informed  by  Mr,  Hetley} 
that  there  are  lite  to  arise  some  difTerreQcefi  at  law 
betweeue  Sir  Oliver  Cromwell  and  tou  and  him- 
self IB  ;  &nd  whereas  (as  he  eaith)  there  haa  bin 
diver&u  alaaderoaa  reporte  raised  of  him,  viz:  that 
hi?  ha»  spent  bis  estate  in  wboring,  gameing  and 
drinkeing,  which  baa  bin  botb  beleeved  and 
reported  againe  by  you  i  be  saith  he  will  make  it 
appeare,  that  oonatderinf  bia  oeoeaiary  ezpeneei 


and  the  debta  owing  to  bJm,  that  his  estate  is 
batter  worth  by  20(V,  per  annnai,  then  it  was  when 
be^  married  your  daughter;  and  for  gameing,  he 
saiea  be  never  uned  it  any  otherwise  then  a  lawfull 
recreation,  that  being  the  onely  recreation  be  ever 
used  \  and  that  he  never  lost  at  a  time  6/,  bxit  once, 
and  nevor  '21.  10^.  5  times  in  his  life,  which  are  but 
verjr  inconaidernbJe  su mines,  all  which  he  humbly 
desires  you  would  be  pleased  to  refler  to  any  one  of 
us  or  any  other  indifferent  person,  which  is  a  very 
reasonable  reguest  and  which  you  cannot  in  justice 
deny  him,  and  we  shall  any  of  us  be  ready  to  take 
some  paines  to  doe  soe  ijood  a  worke  when  other 
more  wejebty  occasions  will  giv^e  us  leave,  and  he 
gaith  he  has  bin  al  waies  ready  to  serve  you  in 
prison  and  since  ut>on  all  necessary  oecaiions  when 
most  of  your  neerest  relations,  especially  those 
whom  you  nuw  most  favour,  did  moj^t  un worth  ifr 
desert  you  ;  and  that  both  he  and  his  wife  did  all 
waies  carry  themselves  with  all  dutifuU  respects 
towards  you,  though  you  have  bin  most  maliciously 
and  falsely  informed  to  the  contrary  otherwise  you 
would  not  carry  your  selfe  bo  strangely  tow'a[rd]s 
them  undeaervedly,  all  which  we  thou  eh  t  good  to 
commend  to  your  serious  consideration,  and  we 
shall  remaine, 

[EndoraedJ^  Mr.  Hetky*fl  letter  to  Mr.  Cromwetl 
coDcemLng  his  evill  carriage. 

In  a  well-known  passage  of  the  *  History 
of  the  Rebellion  ^  (xv,  150)  Clarendon  narrates 
certain  insulting  speeches  made  by  the  Pro- 
tector with  reference  to  Magna  Charta  and 
other  constitutional  statutes.  The  occasion 
was  the  trial  of  Mr,  Cony  for  refusing  to  pay 
a  certain  tax  iroposea  by  the  Protector, 
and  the  plea  put  forward  by  Serjeants  May- 
nard  ana  Twysden  that  the  tax  was  uncon* 
stitutionah    Clarendon  t^ys  v^ 

**  Maynard,  who  was  of  counsel  with  the  prisoner, 
demanded  his  liberty  with  ^reat  confidence,  both 
upon  the  illegality  of  the  commitment  and  the 
illegality  of  the  imposition,  being  laid  without  any 
lawful  authority*  The  judgea  could  not  maintain 
or  defend  either,  but  enough  declared  what  their 
sentence  would  be ;  and  therofore  the  Protector^a 
attorney  required  a  further  dav  to  answer  what 
had  been  urf^ed.  Before  that  day,  Maynard  waa 
committed  to  the  Tower,  for  presuming  to  question 
or  make  doubt  of  hisautbority,.  and  the  judges  were 
eeverely  reprehended  for  su^ertng  that  license  ;  and 
when  they  with  all  humility  mentioned  the  law  and 
Magna  Charta^  Cromwell  told  them  their  magna 
farfa  should  not  control  his  actions,  which  he 
icoew  were  for  the  safety  of  the  Commonwealth/^ 

This  portion  of  Clarendon's  '  History '  was 
written  daring  his  aecond  exile,  about  1670, 
fift-een  years  after  the  events  referred  to, 
and  at  a  period  when  his  roemory  had 
become  greatly  impaired  by  age.  Nor  was 
Clarendon  himself  in  England  in  1655,  when 
the  incident  narrated  is  said  to  have  taken 
place.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  inquire 
what  the  authorities  were  on  which  he 
based  his  story.  The  first  point  to  uotlcfc 
is  that  the  fttat\  do^^  ivotXi  ^w^«:t  Vxi.  x^^^. 
I  The  vewon  <A  Ctqtcinii^%  ^^^'sw  ^^tl  ''^vs^ 


482 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     p^  a  viljuh.  22.1901. 


was  quite  different.  Sir  Qeorge  Kadcliffe^ 
writing  to  Sir  Edward  Nicholas  on  18  June, 
1655,  tells  the  story  thus,  and  neither  Rad- 
cliffe  nor  Nicholas  was  likely  to  extenuate 
anything  to  Cromwell's  disadvantage  :— 

**  In  England  there  is  great  expectation  what  wil 
become  of  Conye's  business ;  it  is  put  off  till  next 
terrae,  and  men's  eyes  are  attent  upon  it.  as  more 
concerned  then  at  any  thinge  wnich  nappened 
these  many  yeares.  Cromwell,  when  he  committed 
Maynard  and  Twisden  and  another  lawyer,  tould 
them  that  if  they  would  have  Map^a  Carta  (which 
they  talked  so  much  on  in  Westmmster  Hall)  they 
must  put  on  each  a  helmet  and  troupe  for  it !  And 
now  they  see  what  they  fought  for.  Here  is  the 
liberty  of  the  subject." 

In  reality  the  story  was  first  circulated  in 
1659,  after  Cromwell  s  death,  and  it  was  put 
into  circulation  by  the  republican  opponents 
of  the  late  Protector.  It  appears  in  a  news- 
paper called  the  Weekly  Post  for  25  October 
to  1  November,  1659  :— 

*'These  too  much  oppressed  nations have  spent 

some  millions  of  treasure  and  tuns  of  blood,  in  assert- 
ing the  just  rights  and  priviledges  of  the  people,  and 
yet  for  many  years  have  bin  deprived  ana  estranged 
from  them,  merely  by  arbitrary  power,  jugglings  and 
tyrannies  of  such  who  would  trample  under  foot 
the  defence  and  boundary  law  of  subjects,  making  a 
pish  at  Magna  Charta  and  the  Petition  of  Right : 
for  (not  many  years  since)  Sergeant  Maynard  and 
Sergeant  Twisden  urging  the  uiwfulness  and  con- 
sistency thereof  (in  tne  case  of  Mr.  Coney)  to  a 
great  person  then  sitting  at  the  helm  of  injustice : 
^Ma^a  Carta,'  saith  he,  *  Magna  Farta ;  retition 
of  Right,  Petition  of  S~e.  There's  more  ado  to 
conquer  two  or  three  old  musty  laws  than  there  is 
in  the  subduing  of  three  nations.' " 

It  occurs  again  in  a  pamphlet  published  in 
the  same  month  by  a  member  of  the  same 
partv,  entitled  "A  True  Relation  of  the  State 
of  the  Case  between  the  ever  honorable 
Parliament,  and  the  Officers  of  the  Army. 
By  a  Lover  of  his  Country  and  Freedom, 
E.  D."  "We  remember  a  speech  of  that 
tyrant's,'^  says  E.  D.,  giving  the  words  as 
Kiven  by  the  newspaper,  but  concluding,  "I 
nave  more  ado  to  conquer  two  or  tnree 
musty  old  laws,  than  I  have  to  conquer  three 
nations  "  (p.  13). 

From  these  pieces  of  evidence  it  is  pretty 
clear  that  the  story  was  invented  several 
years  after  the  event  by  Cromwell's  political 
opponents.  There  is,  however,  authentic 
evidence  that  the  chief  phrase  attributed  to 
Cromwell  was  actually  used  by  an  eminent 
lawyer  some  years  after  the  Restoration.  On 
11  December,  1667,  in  the  House  of  Commons, 
Sir  Thomas  Gower  reported  various  articles 
of  accusation  against  Judge  Keeling,  the  man 
who  ia  said  to  have  drawn  up  the  Act  of 
Uniformity.      Keeling    was    chatted  mt\\ 


wards  iurors  and  others,  and  also  with  vili- 
fying Magna  Charta.  ''One  before  him 
speaking  of  Magna  Charta,  he  said, '  Magna 
Farta,  what  ado  with  this  have  wet'"  Oo 
13  December  Keeling  was  summoned  before 
the  House  to  answer  for  his  conduct,  and  on 
this  particular  point  he  practically  admitted 
the  cnarge.  '*  He  said  he  did  not  remember 
the  words  about  Magna  Charta,  but  if  any 
such  thing  did  fall  from  him,  he  spoke  it  to 
the  impertinency  of  those  men  that  urged  it, 
but  no  way  in  scorn  of  it.  If  he  did  say  it, 
he  owns  he  said  what  he  should  not "  (Grey's 
*  Debates,'  i.  63,  67). 

Clarendon's  anecdote  was  probably  derived 
from  the  newspapers  and  pamphlets  of  1659, 
but  it  is  possible  that  he  may  nave  confused 
what  Cromwell  said  in  1655  with  Keeling's 
words  twelve  years  or  so  later. 

C.    H.   FlKTH. 
33,  Norham  Road,  Oxford. 


THOMAS  SAMUEL  MULOGK,  178&-18e9L 

Pbrhaps  some  information  about  this  able 
if  eccentric  man  may  be  worth  recording.  He 
came  into  contact  with  several  eminent  men 
of  his  day,  and  his  daughter  Dinah  Maria 
Mulock  became  well  known  as  the  author 
of  'John  Halifax^  Gentleman.'  There  was 
perhaps  nothing  m  his  life  or  his  work  to 
give  him  a  place  in  biographical  dictionariesL 
but  yet  some  record  of  it  may  be  of  general 
interest. 

He  came  of  an  Irish  family  whose  pedigree 
will  be  found  in  Burke's  '  Landed  Gentry  '— 
Mulock  of  Kilnagarna,  co.  Westmeath.  He 
was  the  elder  son  of  Robert  Mulock,  of  Bath, 
who  married  Maria  Horner,  and  grandson  of 
Thomas  Mulock,  of  Kilnagarna. 

Some  account  of  him  is  given  in  a  paper 
on  '  Liverpool  Churches  and  Chapels '  read 
before  the  Historical  Society  of  L&Dcashire 
and  Cheshire  in  1852  by  the  Rev.  David 
Thom,  D.D.,  Ph.D.,  a  well-known  Baptist 
minister  in  Liverpool  Dr.  Thom  states  that 
Mr.  Mulock  was  born  in  Dublin,  which  is 
true,  and  that  he  was  educated  at  the  uni- 
versities of  Dublin  and  Oxford,  and  was  first 
intended  for  the  Bar.  The  librarian  of  Trin. 
Coll.,  Dublin,  kindly  made  a  search  for  me, 
showing  that  he  never  entered  that  university. 
About  1812  he  started  in  buainesa  in  Liver 
pool  as  partner  in  the  newly  establiaiied  firm 
of  Mulock  k  Blood. 

Dr.  Thom  describes  Mulook  as  **  perhaps 
the  ablest  man,  as  well  as  most  orisinal 
genius,  who  has  temporarilv  lesideain 
Liverpool,  and  enrichea  its  rdigioiis  liteca* 


acting  in  an  arbitrary  and  illegaV  N»a^  w\VivJTO  Vs  \v\&N*f^.\a3a%<  «iidfiirfeh«r 


»*8.vn.JuNB22,i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


483 


him  aa  **thi8  talent6<i  and  extraordinary 
man."  In  the  Gmt.  Mag,  for  1815  (voL  iL 
p,  605)  there  ie  reported  an  *'  eloquent  eulo- 
gium  "  delivered  by  Mr.  Mtilock  at  the  Liver- 
pool Pitt  Club  to  the  memory  of  William  Rtt 
and  Edmund  Burke.  In  Picton's  *  Memorials 
of  Liverpool '  (vol.  ii.  p,  17)  he  i^  referred  to 
ae  a  '*  somewhat  eceentric  character "  who 
contributed  letters  to  the  CouHer  in  1816-17: 

"  Ho  waa  an  able  and  original  writer  And  speaker, 
m  great  admirer  of  George  Canning,  ajid  a  Tory  to 
the  backbone^  Hii  letters  io  tbe  Courkr  bore  the 
aignaiureof  *  Six  8UrsJ  and  escited  bitter  opp<«i- 
tiocL  in  the  Liberal  ranka,  who  held  up  the  Dame  of 
the  firm  to  ridicule  under  the  sobri<t%tet  of  '  Bloody 
Moloob.*" 

According  to  Dr,  Thom  his  career  aa  a 
public  apeater  in  Liverpool  was  '^^  particularly 
brilliant"  He  waa  for  some  time  secretary 
to  George  Canning,  with  whom  he  was  on 
intimate  termSj  aod  projected  a  life  of  that 
8tate«mai»,  which,  however^  he  never  pub- 
lished. About  1816  he  was  contributing  to 
the  Sun^  aa  will  be  seen  in  William  Jerdan'a 

*  Autobiography '  (vol.  ii.  p.  130)  :— 

"  Mr.  Mulock,  a  gentleman  of  rare  talentr  con- 
tribtited  a  aeriei  of  reports  and  buUetina,  on  the 
awcmed  ground  that  [LeighJ  Hunt  had  been  com- 
mitted to  Bedlani  as  a  lunatic,  and  these  gave  an 
aacount  of  his  aberrations  when  \n&itora  were  ad- 
mitted,  which  would  not  have  beon  unworthy  of 
Dean  Swift,'' 

Jerdan  quotes  extensively  from  these 
satiresi  and  shows  that  Canning  was  in- 
tere"ated  in  Mr.  Mulock'a  writing.  Later  on 
in  his  'Autobiography'  (vol.  iii.  p.  123)  he 
mentions  that  Mr,  IVlulock  was  then  **oneof 
the  most  able  and  zealous  public  writer  a  in 
the  cause  of  "  Prince  Louia  Napoleon,  and  had 
also  written  **  three  clever  satirical  letters  in 
the  Gaiette^  under  the  signature  and  in  the 
character  of  Satan,  which  made  a  noise  at 
the  time." 

In  1817  he  retired  from  business,  and 
having,  according  to  Dr,  Thom, 

^^  become  ih«  Qubject  of  serious  impre&aiouB,  he 
thenceforward  became  conspicuous  as  an  author  on 
tbeolo^ieAl  topics.  In  lilS  he  published  here  a 
apeeck  which  he  intended  to  have  delivered  at  the 
annual  meeting  of  the  AuJtiliarj  Bible  Society,  held 
in  the  month  of  Mav  of  thai  year.  This  has  been 
followed,  at  intervals,  by  a  whole  shower  of  pam- 
phleta  on  religious  8ubjecta>  all  clever— all  writteu 
with  singular  power,  ele^jjance,  and  grace— and  many 
of  them  characterised  by  acute  or  original  views 
on  the  aubjecta  of  theology  and  Christian  practioe/' 

On  20  June,  1817,  he  matriculated  at 
Magdalen  Hall^  Ox^ford,  aged  twenty -seven, 
but  soon  seems  to  have  abandoned  the  Uni- 
versity.   In  1819  be  published  in  London  his 

*  Answer  given  by  the  Gospel  to  the  Atheism 
of  all  the  Ages,'    This  came  under  the  ooticd 


of  Lord  Byron,  who,  writing  to  John  Murray 
from  Ravenna  on  1  March,  1820,  aays  :— 

**The  editor  of  the  B^lo^m  TtUgraph  has  aent 
me  a  paper  with  extracta  from  Mr,  Mulock's  (hii 
name  always  reminds  me  of  Muley  Moloch  of 
Morocco)  *  Atheiijm  Answered/  in  which  there  is  a 
long  eulogioTu  of  my  poesy,  and  a  great  compaiimmUo 
for  my  inisery.  I  never  could  under  si  and  what  they 
mea.n  by  accusing  me  of  irreligion :  however,  they 
may  have  it  their  own  way.  This  gentleman  ae«ms 
to  ue  my  great  adniircr  ;  bo  I  take  what  he  aays  in 
good  part,  as  he  evidently  intemla  kindness^  to  which 
I  CAU  t  accuse  myself  of  being  inRensible." 

In  the  recently  publishefl  *  Works  of  Lord 
Byron,'  edited  by  Rowland  E*  Prothero,  the 
portions  of  this  work  relating  to  the  poet 
are  quoted  (vol.  iv,  appendix  x,  p,  496).  In 
the  same  volume  a  foot-note  on  p.  416  ex- 
plains that  Mr,  Mulock  was  (at  the  time  the 
Bologna  Tdegrapk  quoted  him)  giving  a 
course  of  lectures  on  English  literature  at 
Geneva. 

In  November,  1820,  he  started  a  similar 
course  at  Paria.  Tom  Moore  went  to  hear 
some  of  the  lectures,  but  was  not  favourably 
impressed.  Writing  in  his  diary  on  6  Nov., 
1820  (*  Memoirs,'  vol  iii.  p,  166),  he  saya  :— 

''Took  Bessy  in  to  attend  Mu Jockos  first  lecture 
on  EngHeh  literature ;  fimtim  r^trborum  guUtda 
mentis.  One  of  bia  figurea  waa  rather  awkward ^  if 
pursued  too  minutely.  He  talked  of  persons  going 
to  the  well-spring  of  English  poesy^  in  order  to 
communicatt  wk^  th^y  have  quoifftd  to  othcri,^^ 

Again,  on  17  Nov,,  1820  (ihid.^  p,  169),  he 
writes  I' — 

"Went  in   with   Eae^y    to   Mulock-a   lecture. 

Absurd  and  false  from  beginning  to  end«  DrydeD 
wa9  no  poet ;  Butler  had  no  originality  ;  and  liooke 
was  '  of  the  school  of  the  devil/  both  in  his  philo- 
sophy, politico,  and  Christianity/" 

Again,  on  6  Dec,  1820  (ibid.,  p,  176),  MoorB 
writes  :— 

''  Waa  la  have  gone  this  morning  (Bessy  and  I), 
with  L&dy  Charlemont,  to  MulocVs  lecture;  but 
fioding  that  1  myself  was  to  be  one  of  the  victima 
of  bis  tomahawk  to-day,  deferred  our  going  to 
Friday.'' 
And  on  11  Deo.,  1820 (i6^.,  p.  178),  he  saya: 
*'  Went  Into  town  to  Mulock*s  lecture.  Find  that 
he  praised  me  in  his  discourse  on  the  living  poets, 
the  other  day,  ejcceedingly;  set  me  at  the  head  oi 
them  allr  near  Lord  Byron ^  who,  he  s&ys,  is  the  only 
person  in  the  world  who  seems  to  have  any  ifrofjer 
notion  of  religion  !  In  alloding  to  '  Lalla  Kookh  '  ht 
aaid*  *  As  for  hia  Persian  poeni  (I  forget  the  name 
ot  it) J  I  really  never  tsoufd  read  it,'  The  lecture 
to-day  uiion  evangelical  literature  and  religion  in 
general  ^  mere  verbiage," 

Writing  to  Tom  Moors  from  Ravenna  on 
9  December,  1820^  Byron  again  refers  to  Mr. 
Mulock  :  — 

**  I  have  some   knowledge    of  your    counl^t^xsijwok 


484 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      [»»  8.  vil  jc«22.  iwl 


bad  not  been  h  Ohristla.n  already,  I  should  probably 
hiivo  been  now  in  cona&quence.  1  thciught  t  nere  waft 
fiomothing  of  wild  talent  m  him,  mixed  with  a  due 
lea\'en  of  absurdity—as  there  must  be  in  all  talent^ 
let  loose  upon  the  world,  without  a  martingale." 

In   the  same  edition  of  Byron's  works  is 
given  {voL  v.  appendix  iv,  p»  503)  a  letter 
written  by  Mr,  Mulock  to  the  editor  of  the 
Momin{f  Po$(^  enclosing*'  Lines  to  Lord  Byron 
on  noticing  numerous  passages  of  Scripture 
wrought  into  his  unrivalled    poetrj%'^  from 
which,  he  says^  *\it  will  be  gathered...... that 

I.  who  hold  up  Christianity  somewhat  higher 
than  most  of  my  co- temporaries,  do  not  join 
in  the  clamour  now  raging  against  Lord 
Byron^and  the  alleged  impiety  of  his  acknow- 
hdged  works.*' 

Shortly  ^ter  this  Mr.  Muloek  must  have 
entered  the  Baptist  ministry,  for  in  1822  he 
had  founded  a  small  Baptist  cliapel  at  Stoke- 
on-Trent  (which  I  believe  still  exists),  and  was 
minister  there  until  1831.  When  he  settled 
at  Stoke  he  became  intimate  with  my  grand- 
father William  James  ReatJe,  who  had  also 
become  converted  to  similar  Evangelical  views, 
and  was  himself  thinking  of  entering  the 
Baptist  ministry,  A  long  theological  cor  re- 
ajiondence  between  them  at  this  time  was 
carefully  preserved  by  Mr.  Reade,  and  throws 
a  vivid  light  on  the  narrow  intensity  of  their 
religious  beliefs.  Though  most  of  it  was 
only  **  concerning  the  period,  Hcope,  and  end 
of  Job^s  sufferings,"  it  completely  shattered 
their  friendship  for  many  years,  although 
they  married  abters  shortly  after  the  quarrel. 
Aleyn  Lyell  Heade. 

Park  Comer,  Blundelliaudsj  near  Liverpool. 
{To  bt  coniin^ud.) 


Glasgow  IJkivkrsity,— Although  the  daily 
papers  in  England,  and  especially  in  Scot- 
land, have  given  fnll  accounts  of  the  ninth 
iubile©  of  Glasgow  Univer&ity,  it  woold  seem 
fitting  that  *  N.  &  Q.*  should  have  a  record  of 
the  event.  The  celebration  commenced  on 
Wednesday,  the  12th  insL,  by  a  service  in  the 
Cathedral.  This  was  appropriate,  aa  |>ointed 
out  by  Dr-  M*Adam  Jluir.  because  it  was 
by  one  identified  with  tnat  ediiice  that 
the  University  was  founded^  for  it  was 
owing  to  the  exertions  of  Bishop  Turnbnll 
that  Pope  Nicholas  the  Fifth,  "  the  greatest 
of  the  restorers  of  learning/'  "constituted 
a  University  to  continue  in  all  time  to 
come  in  the  city  of  Glasgow,  'it  being  ane 
notable  place,  with  gude  air  and  plenty  of 
provisions  for  human  life*'';  and  to  ensure 
"fchafc  the  classes  might  begin  with  some 
degree  at  celebrity/'  he  further  tttat\t)ed  \  f 
B  universal  indulgence  to  all  iMtUm  C\itW\ 


tians  who  should  visit  the  Cathedral  of  Glas- 
gow in  the  year  145L  In  the  course  of  his 
address,  as  reported  by  the  Gtafgow  Herald 
on   the  following  day,  Dr.   Muir  made  the 

following  historicaJ  references  :— 

"  When  the  first  jubilee  waa  re^cihed,  Jam^  the 
Fourth,  who  fell  at  Flodden,  was  aitting  on  the 
throne  of  Scotland ;  and  a  new  world  had  a  f^w 
y^ra  before  been  opened  op  by  the  discovery  of 
America.  At  the  fseeond  jubilee  the  tremenaoni 
conflict  of  the  Reformation  was  raging,  and  the 
ill -fa  tod  Mary,  Qu^en  of  Seota,  waa  suH  a  child  im 
France.  When  the  third  jubilee  came  round,  the 
long  feud  between  England  and  Scotland  wa*  about 
to  cease  through  the  accesaion  of  the  Scottish  king 
to  the  En^liBn  throne.  The  fourth  jubilee  fonnd 
the  Common  weal  Lb  eatabliflhed  \  King  Charles  the 
Firat  had  peri  a  hod  on  the  scaffold;  Cromwell  wu 
overrun! ling  Scotland  ;  and  the  quaint  ^M^hary 
Boyd,  to  whom  the  Univeraity  la  indebted  for 
liberal  benefa<itioua,  deuonueed  him  to  his  fac*  In 
the  lower  thnrch  of  thla  CathedraL  The  fifth 
jubilee  fell  at  the  end  of  the  nsigii  of  William  th« 
Third  and  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Queen 
Anne.  By  the  time  of  tne  sixth  jubilee  the  pro- 
tracted stnigale  between  the  House  of  Stuart  and 
the  Houde  ^  Hanover  had  come  to  %n  end  j  the 
hopea  of  the  Jacobites  had  been  quenched  at 
Cullodeu ;  the  Duke  of  Cumberland  had  received 
in  recognition  of  hia  services  the  degree  of  Doctor 
of  Laws  from  the  University  of  Qlaegowj  and 
Clive  waa  laying  the  foundation  of  the  British 
Empire  in  India.  The  aev^enth  jubilee  occiir«d 
when  the  storm  and  agitation  of  tne  French  Revo- 
lution had  not  aunk  to  reatj  when  the  momentwii 
career  of  Napoleon  was  becoming  a  njenace  to 
Europe,  when   Great   Britain   and   Ireland   were 

united The  eigh  th  jubilee  was  contemporary  with 

the  firat   great    International    Exhibition Aiid 

now  the  niuth  jubilee  finds  ua  at  the  completion  of 
the  glorioua  Victorian  orai  mourning  the  departiUB 
of  our  beloved  Queen ^  yet  hailing  with  enthnsiastw 
loyalty  the  acoeBsion  of  our  new  King," 

in  the  afternoon  there  was  a  reception  of 
delegates  in  the  Bute  Hall,  and  the  Oh4gow 
Herald  does  full  justice  to  the  splendour  of 
the  Bpoctacle.  In  the  abaence— on  account 
of  age— of  the  venerable  Chancellor  (Lord 
Stair),  the  Viee- Chancellor  (the  Very  Rev, 
Principal  Story)  delivered  the  address  and 
received  the  delegates,  among  whooi  were 
two  native  professors  from  the  Univei^ity  of 
Tokyo,  in  Japan,  while  the  youngest  Britiali 
university,  BirmiDghana,  was  represented  by 
Prof,  Oliver  Lodge. 

Dr.  Muir  in  affectionate  terms  well  described 
Glasgow  Univernity  as  fulfilling  that  ideal 
of  a  university  sketched  by  Newtnan  nearly 
half  a  century  ago  :— 

"ft  plftos  which  attracts  the  affeetiona  of  the 
young  by  ita  fame,  wins  the  iudgmeot  of  the 
middle-aged  by  iu  beauty,  and  nv^ts  ike  meiDocr 
of  the  old  by  its  assoctationa ;  a  seat  of  wiidoiiit  a 
light  of  the  world,  a  minister  of  the  faith,  sa  miam 
VMtAtr  of  th©  rising  generation.*^ 

N.  a& 


9^  8.  VII.  jhke  22, 1901]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


485 


Inscription  in  the  Metaphysics  Class- 
room IN  Edinburgh  University.— 
Od  earth  there  is  nothing  great  but  roan, 
In  roan  there  is  nothing  great  but  mind. 

These  lines  are  inscribed  in  letters  of  gold 
on  a  tablet  put  up  by  the  great  Sir  Wilfiam 
Hamilton  above  the  chair  in  his  class-room. 
They  were  generally  supposed  to  be  a  quota- 
tion from  Aristotle,  but  on  examination  of 
the  works  of  the  Stagyrite  this  appears  to  be 
erroneous.  Inquiries  have  been  made  in  the 
pages  of  *  N.  (fe  Q.'  as  to  their  source,  without 
eliciting  an  answer.  Through  the  kindness 
of  a  friend,  the  Rev.  John  Hart,  of  Aberlady, 
who  was  a  fellow-student  with  me  under  Sir 
William  in  1846, 1  have  been  enabled  to  trace 
their  origin.  They  are  from  Phavorinus, 
quoted  by  Joannes  Picus  of  Mirandula  in  his 
'  Disputationes  adversus  Astrologiam,'  lib.  iii. 
351.  A.  G.  Reid. 

Auchterarder. 

Acervation.  (See  ante^  p.  420.)  — This 
custom  of  heaping  grain  over  a  beast  unlaw- 
fully killed,  as  a  measure  of  compensation, 
is  enforced  oy  the  Laws  of  Howel  the  Good, 
but  I  have  no  means  at  hand  of  referring. 

W.  C.  B. 

Books  on  Kiev.— Kiev  is  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  and  also  one  of  the  most  interesting 
of  cities.  But  it  is  in  Russia,  and  is,  for  that 
reason  perhaps,  comparatively  unknown  out- 
side the  boundaries  of  the  Russian  empire. 
Larousse's  great  work  is  the  most  entertain- 
ing, and,  taken  all  round,  perhaps  the  most 
satisfactory,  of  encyclopaedias.  But  Larousse 
has  one  great  fault— he  is  inaccurate.  In  his 
short  article  on  Kiev  there  are  enough  mis- 
takes to  attract  the  attention  of  any  one  who 
has  ever  visited  that  town  :— 

"  Au  mois  de  Janvier  il  se  tient  k  Kiev  une  foire 
dit«  des  Contrats." 

This  fair  is  held  in  the  month  of  February, 
if  we  follow  the  Russian  calendar  —  in  the 
months  of  February  and  March,  if  we  adopt 
the  new  style  of  reckoning. 

"  La  troisi^me  partie  de  la  cit^  est  appel^  Podal : 
an  |;>ont  de  bateaux  y  met  en  communication  les 
deux  rives  du  fleuve.  C'est  la  partie  la  plus  con- 
siderable et  la  roieux  b^tie  de  Kiev." 

Most  of  these  statements  may  be  contested. 
The  low-lying  portion  of  the  city  is  called 
the  Podol,  not  rodal.  There  is  no  bridge  of 
boats  across  the  river— nowadays,  at  any  rate. 
In  summer  the  communication  between  the 
two  banks  is  maintained  by  a  ferry ;  in  winter 
the  peasants  walk  across  the  ice.  Lastly,  it 
is  news  that  the  Podol  is  the  best-built  part 
of  Kiev.  It  is  perhaps  not  badly  built,  but 
it  is  regarded  as  the  slum  quarter  of  the  town 


by  all  resi)ectable  residents.  It  is  certainly 
very  inferior  in  extent  and  architecturally 
to  the  aristocratic  suburb  of  Lipki. 

**  On  y  compte  190,000  Catholiques."  This 
is  absurd.  If  true  it  would  probably  mean 
that  every  one  in  Kiev  is  Catholic.  The 
number  of  Catholics  is  estimated  by  those 
who  know  the  town  to  be  about  35,000. 

In  Baedeker's  German  guide  to  Russia, 
published  in  1897  at  Leipzig,  there  is  an 
excellent  map  of  Kiev,  marred,  however,  by 
one  mistake.  At  the  extreme  south  of  the 
map,  west  of  the  part  of  Kiev  that  is 
known  as  Petchersk,  there  is  marked  in 
large  capitals  the  word  "  Lipk."  Lipk,  how- 
ever, lies  in  a  north-easterly  direction  be- 
tween the  centre  of  the  town  and  Petchersk. 
Those  who,  with  Baedeker  for  a  guide,  start 
out  for  a  pleasant  walk  past  the  mansions  of 
Russian  bankers  and  merchants,  will  pro- 
bably be  astonished  to  discover  nothing  put 
a  wide  expanse  of  waste  and  unattractive 
country. 

But  a  correspondent  of  the  IrUerm^diaire 
(22  Dec,  1899)  outstrips  Larousse  and  Bae- 
deker, larousse  is  only  inaccurate;  the  writer 
to  the  IntermMiaire  is  absolutely  wrong  and 
amusing  into  the  bargain.  He  informs  us 
that  at  Kiev  there  is  an  extraordinary  sub- 
terranean monastery,  inhabited  by  1,600 
monks.  The  entrv  to  this  monastery  is  in 
the  cathedral  at  Kiev,  "one  of  the  first  in 
Russia."  The  monks,  he  goes  on  to  tell  us, 
are  allowed  to  come  up  once  a  day  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  like  whales,  to  breathe  the  fresh 
air ;  then  they  descend  into  their  lonely  cata- 
combs, which  are  several  yards  below  the 
surface  of  the  earth,  and  hghted  only  by  a 
lamp.  Observe  the  details.  One  would 
almost  think  that  the  writer  had  been  an 
eye-witness  of  all  that  he  describes.  These 
strange  monks,  we  are  also  told,  have  made 
the  most  wonderful  discoveries  in  chemistry 
and  physics  and  mechanics. 

Let  us  note.  There  is  no  subterranean 
monastery  at  Kiev.  As  for  the  entry  being 
near  the  cathedral  of  Kiev,  there  are 
three,  if  not  four,  cathedrals  there,  and  it 
woula  surely  be  well  to  specify  which  of  them 
is  meant.  The  real  trutti  is  that  there  is  a 
monastery  built  on  the  top  of  a  hill,  inhabited 
by  a  great  number  of  monks,  and  that  this 
monastery  contains  some  catacombs,  where 
about  the  tenth  century  some  fanatics  are 
said  to  have  immured  themselves. 

T.  P.  Armstrong. 

Duchess  of  Cleveland.— May  I  correct 
a  slip  in  your  notice  of  the  Duchess  ot  CJl«^^ 
land  (ante,  p.  4'aa^\   Xoxx  ^i  ^^  ^'^  -wqXa  ^bsofi*. 


486 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     »-» s.  vil  juhe  22.  iqol 


illustrated  *The  Spanish  Lady.'"  She  cer- 
tainly illustrated  this  old  ballad,  but  did  not 
write  it.  It  is  attributed  to  Thomas  Deloney 
by  Hazlitt  in  his  edition  of  Ritson's  *  Ancient 
Songs  and  Ballads/  1877,  p.  240. 

A.  C.  Lee. 

*  Annals  op  Aberdeen,  1617.'— The  follow- 
ing list  contains  names  which  will  be  of  in- 
terest to  many  of  the  readers  of  *  N.  &  Q.* ; 
I  think,  therefore,  it  is  worthy  of  a  place  in  its 
pages.  One  name  I  can  verify  by  a  pedigree 
in  my  possession,  which  runs  as  follows : — 

**  fifranciscus  Knightley  filius  7  et  aetate  minimus 
jam  pocillator  Regis  Jaoobi  a<*  1606  obijt  coelebs." 

The  list  is  as  follows  :— 

"  Annals  of  Aberdeen,  1617.  The  following  at- 
tendants of  the  Ring  fJames  VI.]  were  admitted 
Burgesses  of  Guild  on  this  occasion  :— 

Sir  Thomas  Gerard,  Baronet,  Gentleman  of  His 
Majesty's  privv  chamber. 

Sir  Thomas  ruiridok,  one  of  His  Majesty's  Sellars. 

Sir  Edward  Zutche,  one  of  the  Gentlemen  of  the 
privy  chamber. 

Sir  Greorge  Grorine,  Lieutenant  of  His  Majestsr's 
Pensioners. 

Sir  John  Leid, 

Sir  Theobald  Gorges,  Gentlemen  Ushers  of  His 
Majesty's  privy  chamber. 

Dr.  Chalmers,  Physician  to  His  Majesty. 

Creorge  Spence,  Esq.,  one  of  his  Carvers. 

Francis  Knightlie,  one  of  his  Cupbearers. 

Thomas  Stephaine,  Cupbearer  extraordinary. 

David  Ray.  one  of  His  Majestjr's  bodyguard. 

James  Aucnmunty, 

Patrick  Abercromby, 

Richard  Caulvele,  Grooms  of  the  privy  chamber. 

Adam  Hill,  Pago  to  His  Majesty's  privy  chamber. 

John  Freyand,  Sergeant  at  arms. 

Duncan  Primrose,  Sergeant  Surgeon. 

John  Wolfrumla,  Apothecary,  and 

Archibald  Armstrong." 

*  Aberdeen  Council  Register,'  vol.  xlviii.  p.  110. 

F.  K.  H. 
Bath. 

"  Toucan."  —  The  name  of  this  bird  is 
variously  explained.  According  to  one 
account  {Trans.  Phil.  Soc.^  1885-6,  p.  92)  it 
means  "nose  of  bone,"  but  the  best  aiction- 
aries  (Littr^  for  French,  the  *  Century '  for 
English)  give  their  readers  the  choice  between 
Burton's  statement,  that  it  is  an  imitation 
of  the  cry  of  the  bird,  and  Buffon's,  that  it 
means  "feather."  Nobody  seems  to  have 
taken  the  trouble  to  find  out  whence  Buffon 
derived  his  information.  I  have  traced  it  to 
Jean  de  Lery,  'Voyage  au  Brdsil,*  1580,  p.  154, 
where,  under  the  head  *Poictral  Jaune  du 
Toucan,  k  quoy  sert  aux  Sauvagas/  we  read, 
"  lis  en  portent  ordinairement  quand  ils 
dansent,  et  pour  ceste  cause  le  nomment 
Toucantabourace,  c'est  a  dire  plume  pour 
^  danser"  It  is  clear  from  the  garoled  version 
of  this  in  Buifon  that  he  assumed  toucan  \« 


mean  **  plume,"  and  tahourace  to  mean  "  dan- 
ser."  I  venture  to  suggest  that  Baffon 
guessed  wrongly.  In  a  Brazilian  vocabulary 
nearly  contemporary  with  De  Lery,  Montoya's, ' 
1639,  I  find  tne  entry,  *'  Twxi,  paxaro  cono- 
cido;  iucanda^  plumas  deste  paxaro."  This 
amounts  to  proof  that  the  phrase  quoted  by 
De  Lery  divides  into  toucoMta,  "plume  du 
toucan,"  and  bourace,  "danser."  In  other 
words,  toucan  does  not  mean  "  feather,**  and 
De  Lery  never  said  it  did.  The  possible 
etymologies  of  the  term  are  thus  reduced 
from  three  to  two,  and  the  advantage  is 
strikingly  shown  of  the  principle  of  going  to 
the  fountain-head  for  facts,  so  often  advocated 
in  these  columns  by  Prof.  Skbat. 

Jas.  Platt,  Jun. 

"A  RAT  WITHOUT  A  TAIL."— 

*' Joubertus  telle th  that  there  were  two  Italiao 
women  that  in  one  moneth  brought  forth  each  of 
them  a  monstrous  birth ;  the  one  that  m&rryed  a 
Tailor  brought  forth  a  thing  so  little  that  is  [it] 
resembled  a  Rat  without  a  taile,"  Ac— "The 
Workes  of  that  famous  Chirurgeon  Ambroise  Pfeurey. 
Translated  out  of  Latine  and  compared  with  the 
French  by  Th.  Johnson,"  1634,  fol.,  p.  763. 

In  an  annotation  on  the  pctssage  in  *  Mac- 
beth,' I.  iii.,  **Like  a  rat  without  a  tail," 
Steevens  says,  "It  should  be  remembered 
(as  it  was  the  belief  of  the  times)  that  though 
a  witch  could  assume  the  form  of  any  aniinal 
she  pleased,  the  tail  would  still  be  wanting.'' 
Parey  or  Par^  is  fond  of  showing  that 
monstrous  births  coincided  with  startling 
political  events.  I  quote  the  phrase  as  cast- 
ing possibly  a  light  on  Shakespeare. 

H.  T. 

"  Prospect."— In  the  text  of  the  Authorised 
Version  of  the  English  Bible  this  word  occurs 
only  in  the  book  of  the  prophet  Ezekiel, 
where  it  is  used  in  five  passages  (xl.  44  twice, 
46,  xlii.  15,  and  xliii.  4),  and  bears  nearly  the 
modern  sense,  except  that  "aspect  would 
now  better  express  the  idea,  so  that  one  in 
almost  surprised  that  the  revisers  did  not 
substitute  that  word  for  it.  fiut  in  the 
margin  of  the  A.V.  of  1  Kings  vii.  5  the 
expression  ''  square  in  prospect  is  offered  as 
an  alternative  to  the  textual  reading ;  and 
though  it  seems  scarcely  intelligible,  the 
revisers  have  not  only  introduced  it  into  the 
text,  but  substituted  "  prospects  "  (with  mar- 
^nal  alternative  "beams")  for  "windows" 
m  the  preceding  verse  (4).  The  Hebrew  word 
which  it  translates  is  also  used  in  the  pre- 
ceding chapter  (vi.  4),  where  both  our  ver- 
sions render  it  "  windows.''  But  the  original 
word  in  the  passages  above  referred  to  in 
Ezekiel  is  quite  different,  and  is,  in  Hct^  the 
\Otdvaary  Hebrew  word  for  "face,"  hf 


9-»8.viljdne22.i9oi]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


487 


Benbch  translates  it,  and  which  sufficiently 

expresaes  the  idea,  though,  m  I  said  before, 
"aspect"  would  perhaps  be  better^  and  is 
certainly  preferable  to  '*  prospect,"  In  the 
first  part  of  the  first  passage  (Ezekt  k1,  44) 
the  Vulgate  has  "faciea,"  but  the  Douay 
renders  "prospect,"  like  the  A.V.  It  may 
be  of  some,  though  chiefly  Ucal,  interest 
that  part  of  the  last  of  these  passages  in 
Bzekiel  (xliii.  4)  is  placed  over  the  screen 
of  the  parish  church  (St.  Margaret*s)  of  Lee. 
The  inscription  rune.  "  Majeatas  Domini  per 
viara  porti/'  the  whole  verso  being  "  Majestas 
Domini  ingressa  eat  templum  per  viam 
porti&  quie  reapiciebat  ad  orientem,  * 

W.  T.  Lynn. 
Blackheath.     ___^^___^__ 

Wi  tniist  raqueet  correspondent*  desirinp  infor- 
mation on  family  matt  era  of  only  private  mtoreat 
to  affix  theiLt-  namoa  and  addreases  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  tbo  answers  may  be  addressed  to  thecj 
dij^oct. 

Knifeboabd  of  Ajr  Omnibus.  — A  few 
months  ago  I  ^nt  Dr,  Murray  ^  note  of 
Leech  8  cartoon  in  Punch  of  15  Ma^,  1852, 
and  he  told  me  it  waa  the  earliest  instance 
known  to  him  of  this  use  of  the  word.  Lord 
John  Russell  is  represented  sitting  in  the 
rain  on  a  single  *^  form  "  on  the  roof  of  an 
omnibus,  and  saying,  "  Oh  1  you  don't  catch 
me  coming  out  on  the  knifeboard  again  to 
make  room  for  a  party  of  swells/^  There 
appears  no  means  of  access  from  the  rear  of 
the  omntbuaf  not  even  the  perpendicular 
iron  ladder  that  lasted  on  into  the  eighties. 

Can  any  of  your  readers  tell  Dr.  Murray 
when  the  knifeboard  was  introduced,  and 
when  firat  called  by  that  namet  Was  the 
se^t  originally  single,  or  back  to  back  I  Was 
it  the  seat  or  its  back  that  struck  some 
ingenious  person  as  resembling  the  domestic 
knifeboard,  and  wherein  did  such  reaem 
blance  consist? 

I  have  not  heard  tlie  word  for  several  years : 
m  it  obsolete  t  The  thing  it  described  is,  we 
may  hope,  obsolescent  at  the  least. 

RoBT*  J.  Whit  WELL. 

Oxford. 

*Thi  Situation  of  PAfiAoiai.'— Can  one 
of  your  readers  give  me   any  information 

relative  to  the  following  work?— 

*  The  !  Situation  of  Parafiis*  I  found  out ;  1  Beiug 
&D  1  History  1  Of  &  Late  [  Pilgriinii^e  |  unto  the  I 
Holy  Leind,  [  With  a  necessary  |  Apparatus  prefixt 
I  Giving  Liffht  |  Into  the  Whole  DefliffiiH.  |  I  have 
chosenthe  way  of  truth,  Psal.  119  v.  30.]  London  ;  | 
Pnb*d  by  J.  C,  and  F.  C.  for  G.  Lowtideft,  over 
AfUAit  I  Eacetef-Eiohan^    in    the    ^Imnd,    and 


H.  F&ithorae  ]  Stud  J.  Ker«ey,  at  the  Rom  in  St. 
Pauls  1  Churchyard  |  1683,"  Frontiapiece,  title, 
Addresa^Contenta  of  Apparatus,  6  leavea,  pp,  1-243. 
Errata  additional 

1  should  be  glad  to  know  author*  &c.,  either   • 
through  your  paper  or  direct.       R.  Simms. 
Newciwtl©,  Staffs. 

[It  IB  attributed  by  Halkett  and  Laing  U}  Henry 
Haref  seoond  Lord  Cobniino,  for  whom  consult 
*aN,B/under*Haro.'J 

James  Denew,  Auctioneer.— I  am  anxious 
to  trace  thia  auctioneer  or  his  succeaaora^  and 
should  be  much  obliged  if  any  of  your  readers 
could  kindly  a^isist  me.  A  isale  of  Charles 
Boothby  Skrymshire  Clopton*a  effects  was 
advertised  in  the  Times  of  27  September, 
1800,  by  James  Denew,  auctioneer,  of  30, 
Charles  >Streeb,  Berkeley  Sqnara 

ALtiEENON  Gratis. 

6,  Pall  Mali. 

"Bench^^— At  Greenock  the  word  '* bench" 
is  used  for  the  elders'  or  the  chancery  platform 
in  churches.  Can  you  give  me  any  infor- 
mation as  to  its  being  employed  otherwise  or 
in  other  districts  of  the  country  in  the  same 
connexion  I  It  has  been  in  use  in  this  dis- 
trict with  the  meaning  stated  for  at  least  one 
or  two  generations.  Office- bearer. 

Taverns  in  Sbvkh  Dials  ahb  Soho.— I 
should  be  glad  of  any  information  with 
regard  to  the  position  and  status  of  the 
following  taverns  in  Seven  Dials  between 
the  years  1740  and  1760  or  thereabouts  :  "  The 
King's  Arms,"  Tower  Street,  Seven  Dials  ; 
"The  Tower,"  Tower  Street^  Seven  Dials; 
"The  Fox  and  Goose,"  King  Street,  Seven 
Dials, 

Also  with  regard  to  the  following  in  Soho 
about  the  years  1780  and  1800:  '*  Carlisle 
Arms/'  Queen  Street,  Soho ;  *'  Greyhownd," 
New  Compton  Street,  Soho;  ** Angel,"  St. 
GUeH*s Churchyard, Soho ;  "Coach and  Horses,** 
Frith  Street,  Soho;  also  the  **  Talbot,"  Tot- 
tenham Court  Road,  between  1767  and  1780. 
J.  W.  Slugh  Goddino. 

Stv  Stephon'a  Clnb,  WiatmiUBtcr. 

"  SiLVEE  TEUMPET."— In  aletter  of  5  Novem- 
ber, 1681,  an  anonymous  correspondent  writes, 
apparently  to  Sir  WUliam  Fmnkland  l^ 

"I  am  told  from  &  very  good  haod  that  your 
noigbboar  At  Ntmningtcin*  will  have  tb©  mlver 
trumpet^  and  then  Jack  Talboti  kc  tziay  6lay  at 
home  if  h©  please th*" — Hiat.  MSS.  Coram.  Re|>ort 
on  the  M3S.  of  Mrs.  Fraakland-Eu&B&ll-Aatley, 
1900,  at  p.  47. 
Doe^  the  '"silver  trumpet"  mean  some  house- 

*  Glo«.<ied}  in  a  note,  *' Sir  Kiobard  Gmbam^crx 
Viscoiint  Freatoa  iu  l^Si*^ 


488 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      i»«»B.viLJt;ii.22.i»L 


hold  appointment?  The  "staff"  and  the 
"gold  key"  have  such  meanings.  Is  there 
in  'N,  &  Q.'  a  list  of  badges  of  office  whose 
names  are  used  in  ordinary  language  to 
designate  the  offices  themselves  ?  O.  O.  H. 

Gladstone  Volume.— I  am  anxious  to 
procure  a  little  volume  by  Mr.  Gladstone, 
the  substance  of  some  articles  on  Arthur 
Henry  Hallam,  which  were  contributed 
to  the  Daily  Telegraphy  were  afterwards 
reprinted  by  an  American  periodical  called 
the  Youth^s  Magazine,  and  finally  issued  in 
book  (or  pamphlet)  torm  in  U.S.  Having 
failed  to  trace  this  by  the  ordinary  trade 
channels,  I  am  writing  in  the  hope  that  you 
can  further  my  search  by  putting  me  on 
the  right  track  if  known  to  you. 

Norman  Macleod. 

25,  George  IV.  Bridge,  Edinburgh. 

A  Scots  Heiress  as  a  Recluse  in  Bologna. 
—Is  anything  known  of  a  succession  case  to 
the  estates  of  Auchannachie  in  the  parish  of 
Glass,  Aberdeenshire,  at  the  beginning  of  last 
century  ?  The  heir-at-law  was  discovered  to 
be  a  religious  recluse  in  a  garret  at  Bologna, 
where  she  was  living  all  ignorant  of  her 
oirthright,  to  which  she  was  in  due  course 
served  heiress.  The  Gordons  owned  Auchan- 
nachie for  many  generations. 

J.  M.  Bulloch. 

118,  Pall  MalL 

Bibliography  of  Universal  History.— 
Can  any  one  inform  me  whether  there  is 
any  reference  book  in  existence  containing 
separate  lists  of  the  works — historic,  poetic, 
dramatic,  fictional,  <kc. — written  on  all  the 
principal  events  of  universal  history  1  If  not, 
IS  there  any  book  of  approximate  description  ? 

J.  M. 

New  College,  Oxford. 

"Canny":  " Chbvaux."— In  some  letters 
home  written  by  a  midshipman  from  the 
Mediterranean  in  1798  I  find  the  expression 
"  to  be  on  short  canny,"  clearly  meaning  "  on 
ship's  provisions,"  and  possibly  also  on  two- 
thirds  allowance,  or  "six  upon  four."  Can 
any  one  explain  the  word  coflfiny^  which,  in 
this  sense,  is  new  to  me  ? 

Also  **  Sir  John  Orde  gave  a  grand  chevaux^ 
to  which  he  was  so  good  as  to  invite  me." 
Chevaux  is,  of  course,  what  is  still  spoken  of 
as  a  "sheave-o."  Can  any  one  suggest  the 
derivation  and  proper  spelling  1 

J.  K.  Laughton. 

Kipling  Stories.— In  what  magazines  have 
the  following  appeared  1—*  Bitters  Neat,'  *  Pit 
that  they  Digged^  'Track  of  a  lie,'  ^Lfe«^ 


of  Sister  Ursula,'  *  Lamentable  Comedy  of 
Willow  Wood.'  Eluot  Stock. 

62,  Paternoster  Bow. 

"  Chevaux  ortnges  " :  "  Feuilles  de 
lattier."— What  is  the  meaning  of  "chevaux 
orynges"  (Flaubert,  'Salammb6,'  p.  145,  ed. 
definitive),  *'  ^talon  arynge  "  (t6.,  p.  250)  1  Also 
of  "  feuilles  de  lattier  noir  »*  (i6.,  p.  121)! 

Cbciua. 

Cornish  Place-names.— What  are  the 
meaning  and  derivation  of  the  names  (fre- 
quent in  Cornwall)  Bolitho,  Vingoe,  Bosanko, 
Bosustow  (also  Bosista  and  Bosusta)1  Is 
there  any  relation  between  the  terminal  o 
in  each  name  ?  Ygrec. 

Powdering  Slippers.— A  discussion  upon 
powdering  gowns  has  recently  taken  place  in 
^N.  &  Q.'  In  Miss  Edgeworth's  story  of  the 
basket- woman  in  the  *  Parent's  Aiiaistant' 
mention  is  made  of  powdering  slippers.  Can 
you  give  any  information  about  them  f 

George  H.  Courtsnay. 

"Fall  below  par."  — It  is  said  that  on 
Kaiser  Wilhelm's  ninetieth  birthday,  when 
callers  wished  him  "many  happy  returns," 
the  emperor  answered  them,  "I  have  no 
hope  of  seeing  another."  Thereupon  Roth- 
schild's repartee  was,  "Your  majesty  must 
have  a  dozen  returns,  for  we  bankers  cannot 
afford  to  let  you  fall  below  par"  What  his- 
torical ground  is  there  for  this  bon  mot  f 

James  D.  Butlsr. 

Madison,  Wis. 

Identification  op  Arms.— When  Coates 
wrote  *The  History  of  Reading'  there  was  in 
St.  Mary's  Church  in  that  town  the  achieve- 
ment of  arms  of  Thomas  Buckeridge  Noyea, 
of  Southcot,  Reading  :— 

Quarterly,  1.  Arg.,  three  cross-crosslets  in 
bend  dexter  sable  (Noyes) ; 

2,  Gules,  a  fesse  or  between  eight  billets  of 
the  same  (May,  co.  Hants) ; 

3,  Sable,  three  pallets  or  charged  with  six 
cross-crosslets  fitch^e  of  the  first  (query) ; 

4,  Or,  on  a  fesse  sable  three  chess  rooks  of 
the  first  between  three  leopards'  faces  gules 
(Noyes). 

Impaling,  Arg.,  a  chevron  azure  between 
three  owls,  two  and  one,  of  the  same  (Hucks). 
The  first,  second,  and  fourth  quarters  and 
the  impalement  are  explainable.  The  above 
Thomas  No^es's  father  married  an  heiress  of 
May,  and  his  wife  was  a  daughter  of  Robert 
Hucks,  of  Aldenham,  Herts.  The  third 
quarter  is  my  difficulty.  ThomAS  Noyes's 
grandmother  was  a  Buckeridge^  and  his 
^W»\i<^x^Q(^tvLQ  Noyes,  on  the  death  of  Thomai 


9*  S.  VU.  June  22. 1901.]        NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


489 


Buckeridge  (his  uncle)  without  issue,  would 
represent  the  family  of  Euckeridge.  The 
arm:j  of  Buckeridge  are  :  Or,  two  pallets  sable 
between  five  croas-cro^slets  fi tehee  of  the  first 
There  ia  sufficient  similarity  to  imagine  that 
the  Baaildoii  Buckeridgea  Dore  the  arms  as 
blazoned  in  the  third  quarter  of  the  above 
achievement.  Can  any  one  give  me  a  record 
of  their  having  done  so  I  A,  S.  Dyes. 

3|  BLoinfield  Street,  Bays  water,  W. 

A  '*  Peremptoey."— It  was  ordered  by  the 
Water  Club  of  the  Harbour  of  Cork  (now  the 
Royal  Cork  Yacht  Club)  on  21  April,  1737, 

**  That  for  the  future,  unless  the  company  ei- 
oeed  the  uamber  of  fifteen,  no  man  be  allowed  more 
than  one  bottle  to  hk  share,  and  a  peremptory." 

What  was  a  "  peremptory  "  1 

Altebd  F,  RoBBrNB, 

"Pint  umbit."— In  a  foot-note  on  p.  194 
of  Edwards's  *  Shaksper,  not  Shakespeare,' 
credited  to  Dr,  Morgan,  there  occurs  the 
following :  **  YuSt  gaSefj  -e  be  gwan  pint 
umbit  '^  What  is  the  meaning  of  '*  pint 
nmbit"?  XL. 

Piiilftddphi^ 

** Hedge," IK  BACorr'a  Kssat  'On  Gardens/ 
—Bacon's  garden  is  to  be 

"  in(M>mpa£a43d,  on  all  the  four  aides,  with  a  atately 
ftr<;hed  nedge — the  archea  to  be  on  pillars,  of  car- 
pet] tera'  work,  of  some  ten  foot  high,  and  mx  foot 
Droad  ;  and  the  spaces  between  of  the  a^me  dtmen- 
ftioti  with  the  brekdth  of  the  arch.  Over  the  arches 
let  there  be  an  entire  hodge,  of  some  four  foot  high, 
framed  also  upon  carj enters'  work,"  &c. 

In  the  Latin  version  (I  quote  the  Lugd. 
Bat.  1653  edition)  the  most  important  part 
stands  thus:  *'Arcu8  extollantur  ijupra 
columnas  ex  opere  lignaris,  pedes  decern 
alti,  lati  sex.  S|>atia  autem  inter  columnas 
ejusdem  dimensioniji  slnt  cum  latitudine 
arena."  What  sort  of  a  construction  waa 
intended  ?  Wtu^  the  woodwork  merely  in- 
tended to  support  a  live  hedge  trained  so  as 
to  form  arches  ;  or  was  the  wnole  body  of  the 
fence  intended  to  be  of  woodwork  ?  Another 
passage  in  the  same  essay,  where  Bacon 
speaks  of  planting  "a  covert  alley,  upon  car- 
penters'  work,  about  twelve  foot  nigh/'  seems 
to  favour  the  former  view.  But  then,  if  this 
is  intended,  how  is  it  that  Bacon  does  not  say 
of  what  plants  the  hedge  ia  to  be  made  1  A 
oaere  wooden  hedge  seems  quite  inconsistent 
with  the  grandeur  of  the  garden  that  Bacon 
had  in  view. 

There  is  another  point  on  which  I  am  in 
doubt*  What  is  the  meaning  of  the  ^^  breadth 
of  the  arch  "  1  It  ia  evidently  not  the  same 
as  the  distance  between  the  columns,  as  the 
latter  is  expressly  defined  by  reference  to  the 


former.  Is  it  the  thickness  of  the  hedge  T 
Note  that  the  Latin  has  "  spatia  autem  inter 
columnas,"  so  that  "spaces  between"  does 
not  mean  the  spaces  between  the  arches. 

I  should  be  glad  if  some  reader  of  *  N.  &  Q, 
more  versed  than  I  am  in  early  gardening 
literature  could  explain  the  passage,  or  refer 
me  to  any  books  where  I  should  be  likely  to 
find  information  on  the  subject.  The  Hon, 
Miss  Ambers t*s  book  has  been  consulted  j 
without  avail,  J,  R  li 

Authors  of  Quotations  Wanted.— 
When  lat«  within  the  Caspian  i^ea, 
Our  veaael  lying  under  lee 
Dashed  by  tne  angry  foam, 
0*er  the  blue  deep  my  visions  flow 
In  silent  ecataay  to  you 
And  to  my  native  home.  B.  Bv 

What  do  we  hire  our  ministers  for  if  not  to  stop 

delusion  ? 
Oh  dear,  they  don't  know  what  to  do,  they  'r©  all  in 
such  a  confusion  ! 
Sheepskin H,  be^swas:,  putty,  pitch,  and  plaster, 
The  more  you  try  to  pull  tnem  off  they  're  sure  to 

stick  the  faster.  ARTHUR  CniLn. 

St,  Lucia,  W.L 


THE  MANOR  OF  TYBUBK, 
(9^  S.  vii.  381,  402.) 
[See  also  *  Executions  at  Tyburn,*  9^**  S.  vii*  121, 
210,  242,  282,  310.] 

To  the  few  facts  which  I  have  advanced 
(anUt   p.   310)  in   evidence  of    the   western 

extension  of  the  manor  (viz.,  an  Act  of  Parlia- 
ment stating  Bays  water  to  be  in  the  manor 
of  TyburD,  and  the  name  Tyburn  twice 
attaclied  to  land  w^t  of  Edgware  Eoad^  Col. 
Prideaux  makes  an  important  addition. 
The  evidence  he  brings  forward  from  JStow 
materially  strengthens  the  view.  For  the 
Elizabethan  author,  describing  the  supply  of 
water  granted  to  London  by  Gilbert  Santord 
in  1236,  clearly  represents  tne  source  to  have 
been  in  "  the  Towne  of  Teybornej"  which 
he  further  says  was  in  Padaingfcon.  Stow 
is  not  concerned  with  the  extent  of  Tyburn 
Manor,  nor  is  Maitland,  who  wrote  141  years 
later.  But  although  Maitland  ('Hist,  of 
London,'  ed.  1756,  i.  83)  shows  that  he  ia 
acquainted  with  Stow*s  account  of  the  con- 
duit, and  his  locating  the  source  in  the  town 
of  Tyburn  in  Paddington,  he  chooses  to  place 
that  town  or  village  in  Marylebone.  He 
gives  no  other  reason  for  his  decision  that 
the  ancient  village — or,  at  least,  the  ancient 
church  of  St.  John— occupied  the  site  of 
Marylebone  Court  House  tnan  that  ''from, 
the  great  uumV^x  oi  VwssiwikVsoM^  ^»%^«^ 


490 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     (g*8.viLJi7n22,i9BL 


there  in  the  year  1729  he  imagined  that  there 
stood  the  church  and  cemetery  "  (ii.  1372). 

Lysons,  writing  half  a  century  later, 
adopts  the  evidence  of  the  bones,  and  adds 
none  other,  the  value  of  that  evidence  being 
enhanced  to  him  by  finding,  from  the  *  Bray- 
broke  Register/  that  there  certainly  was  a 
churchyard  attached  to  St.  Johns  when 
licence  was  given  for  removal  of  the  church 
in  1400,  and  that  the  parishioners  were  bound 
by  the  terms  of  the  licence  to  preserve  the 
old  burying-ground.  Lysons,  too.  was  per- 
haps confirmed  in  his  belief  in  the  site  by 
having  traced  the  proprietorship  from  the 
old  owners  to  the  new,  but  Col.  Prideaux 
has  fairly  shown  thepartition  of  the  original 
manor,  and  that  "Tyborne  al's  Marybone," 
the  possession  of  the  Mowbray  Dukes  of 
Norfolk  in  the  Inquis.  p.m.  of  1461,  was  pro- 
bably only  one  of  the  fractions.  The  next 
Inquisition  in  the  calendar  naming  Tyburn, 
that  of  16  Ed.  IV.,  or  1476,  appears  to  refer 
to  another  division,  viz.,  "  a  third  part  of  the 
manor  **  which  was  in  the  Nevill  family. 

Lysons  also  ignored  or  overlooked  Stow's 
location  of  "  the  towne"  of  Tyburn  in  Padding- 
ton.  In  'Environs,'  not  writing  of  the  City, 
he  was  not  concerneri  with  its  ancient  water 
supply,  and  makes  but  slight  reference  to 
*'  the  Conduit  at  Bayswater  "  (ed.  1795,  iii.  331), 
apparently  having  missed  what  Stow  had  said 
ot  its  source. 

Thus  Maitland  and  Lvsons  having  focussed 
Marylebone  for  us  as  the  site  of  the  ancient 
Tyburn—that  is  to  say  of  the  church,  village, 
or  town  as  Stow  calls  it,  t.0.,  the  nucleus  or 
kernel  of  the  manor— our  attention  has  been 
diverted  from  the  older,  and  for  that  reason 
the  more  valuable,  testimony  of  Stow ;  and 
perhaps  from  the  same  cause  the  general 
conception  of  the  extent  of  the  manor  has 
been  contracted.  Our  sight  has  been  so  long 
centred  on  the  brook -like  winding  of  Maryle- 
bone Lane,  with  the  few  vestiges  of  old  time 
adjacent,  that  we  unwillingly  look  elsewhere. 
But  re-examining  the  grounas  for  belief  in  the 
Marylebone  Tyburn,  we  must  not  only  listen 
to  what  Maitland  and  Lysons  had  to  say,  but 
also  take  the  much  earlier  evidence  of  Stow. 
Stow*s  evidence  for  the  Paddington  Tyburn 
is  good,  but  would  be  still  better  had  he 
iEound  **  Padington "  attached  to  the  words 
"Towne  of  Teyborne"  in  Gilbert  Sanford's 
grant.  "Padington"  is  Stow's  location.  It 
18.  however,  well  supported  by  the  lengths 
which  he  gives  of  the  several  divisions  of  the 
watercourse.  Having  checked  these  lengths 
on  the  maps,  I  have  found  them  quite  ntel- 
ligible  and  their  total  accurate.  A  little 
tabular  exposition  will  be  convemeiiVi. 


The  Waiere<mr8e  from  PaddinffUm  to  the  Ortmm 
Cheap,  Stoic's  lenffths  [see  anU^  p.  SSS). 

Bods.  Tarda.  MUm. 
Paddinffton  to  James  Head  ...  51O=^2805-=l'50 
James  Head  to  Mews  Gate  ...  102=  561=  -32 
Mews  Gate  to  Cross  in  Cheap  ...      484=2882=  IM 

1006=8028=3*43 

The  Cross  in  Cheap  is  shown  on  the  map 
of  Aggass  (c.  1&60)  opposite  the  end  of  Wood 
Street.  Taking  it  as  a  fixed  point,  Stow's 
total  length  of  the  watercourse  (3'43  miles) 
would  reach  to  the  centre  of  Sussex  Square, 
Paddington,  which  square  is  adjacent  to 
Spring  Street,  Conduit  Place,  and  Condtiit 
Mews.  These  names  therefore  appear  cor- 
rectly to  perpetuate  memory  of  the  ancient 
source  of  water,  viz..  the  wells  of  Gilbert  de 
Sanford  in  his  fief  ot  Tyburne. 

James  Head— probably  denoting  a  branch 
conduit  to  St.  James's  Palace— is  found,  by 
using  Stow's  measurement  on  the  modem 
map,  to  be  at  Wells  Street  (off  Oxford 
Street),  a  name  which  again  8i)eak8  of  the 
old  conduit. 

Mews  Gate,  which  doubtless  had  reference 
to  the  old  royal  mews  in  Bloomsbury,  falls 
about  Bedford  Square. 

I  think  the  correctness  of  Stow^s  figures, 
wherever  he  got  them,  goes  far  to  prove  that 
his  information  was  based  on  reliable  record, 
and  that  he  had  sufficient  reason  for  stating 
Tyburn  to  be  in  Paddington.  Had  the  town 
or  village  been  in  Marylebona  say  at  Maryle- 
bone Lane,  the  length  of  the  watercourse 
would  have  been  a  whole  mile  less  than  he 
states  it.  And  the  Editor's  supplementary 
Quotation  (ante^  p.  383)  of  Gilbert  de 
Sanford's  grant  from  the  invaluable 
*  Calendar'  of  Dr.  R.  R.  Sharpe  is  most 
opportune.  Such  work  as  Dr.  Sharpens, 
the  goodly  series  of  Calendars  emanating 
from  the  Public  Record  Office,  the  '  Feet  ot 
Fines '  calendared  by  Messrs.  Hardy  and  Pl»g^ 
the  index  by  Messrs.  Ellis  and  Bicklev  of 
MS.  charters  in  the  British  Museum,  and  all 
other  most  useful  index  work  accomplished  in 
later  years,  give  the  present  generation  great 
advantages  over  the  fathers  of  history  and 
topography,  whose  work  is  the  more  noWe 
from  having  been  achieved  without  the  aids 
we  now  possess.  Nevertheless,  the  result  of 
progressing  research  will  be  applied  to  the 
work  of  the  Stows,  the  Camdens,  the  Dog- 
dales,  and  the  Lysonses ;  for  all  is  pat  to  the 
test  in  a  critical  age  when  even  the  Autho- 
rized Version  is  thought  to  require  revi- 
sion. Research,  indeed,  proceeds  too  slowly, 
and  authority  is  niggardly  in  granting  haa- 
ties  for  it  We  enjoy  the  mnd  liberality  of 
\\}ti<^^x\\A&V^  MniAeum,  the  leaser  acoommoda- 


9-»8.viLJuN.22,i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


491 


tlan  of  the  Public  Record  Office,  and  of  the 
depository  of  old  wilU  at  Somerset  Hooee  ; 
but  there  are  yet  many  sources  of  informa- 
tion which  remain.ctDseo  to  willing  searchers, 
and  where  acce^  is  allowed  to  them  they  are 
restricted  by  short  official  hours.  However, 
as  the  living  gceneration  has  enjoy^  advan- 
tages beyond  its  predecessor,  we  will  hope 
that  to  the  next  still  greater  facilities  will 
open  out  Then,  douStless,  more  will  be 
learnt  on  such  vexed  questions  as  the  limits 
of  the  manor  of  Tyburn  _;  and  further  let  us 
hope  that  in  the  meantime  they  who  differ 
in  opinion  may  do  so  with  tolerance  and 
good  humoan 

From  the  circumstance  that  land  in  Tyburn 
was  acquired  by  Robert  de  Sanford,  Master 
of  the  Knights  Templars  who  held  the  manor 
of  Lilestone,  it  is  the  conjecture  of  Coi*, 
Prideaus:  (ante,  p.  382}  that  the  Tyburn  land 
may  have  merged  in  Lilestone,  and  possibly 
may  have  constituted  that  part  of  Lilestone 
which  the  Prior  of  the  Hospitallers  (auccea- 
sors  to  the  Templars)  leased  to  Blennerhaaaet 
in  1612,  which  land  became  the  Fortmao 
estate.  This,  if  it  were  assured,  would 
at^xjunt  for  the  intei-section  of  Tyburn  by 
Lilestone  in  case  the  manor  of  TVburn  were 
proved  to  have  extended  into  Paddington. 
But  of  courj^e  this  conjecturCi  however  reason- 
able^  requires  substantiating.  At  present, 
although  we  credit  Thomas  Smith's  citation 
in  his  *  Marylebone '  of  the  prior's  lease,  with 
ita  interesting  field- names,  we  do  not  know 
where  it  is  found,  W.  L.  Rutton. 

(Jou  Pbidkaux  declares  he  ^*  cannot  accept 
the  argument  that  the  name  *  Tyburn '  was 
a  movabie  one^  which  was  bastowed  on  what- 
ever site  the  gallows  occupied/'  In  one  caae 
it   aeema    to   have    been    given   on  sucli  a 

frinciple.  The  late  Mr.  Robert  Davies, 
'.S.  A.,  a  cautious  man  and  a  careful  writer, 
asserts  of  the  York  Tvburn  that  '*it  was  so 
<mlled  in  imitation  of  the  name  of  the  locality 
near  Liondon  chosen  for  the  same  purpose, 
and  a  bye- way  near  it  is  to  this  day  called 
Tyburn  Lane^C  Walks  through  the  City  of 
York;  p.  101).  St.  Swithin. 

It  appears  that  Park  Lane  was  once  called 
Tyburn  Lane,  and  where  it  joined  Tyburn 
Road  or  Oxford  Street  there  would  be 
Tyburn  Gate,  no  doubt  a  toll -bar.  Water 
was  drawn  from  Tyburn,  and  here^boute  was 
the  Conduit  Head  ;  adjoining  it  was  the  Lord 
Mayor's  banqueting  honae,  the  only  building 
shown  in  my  maps.  Park  Lane  continued 
the  Roman  road  from  Lambeth  to  the 
Edgware  Road  for  St.  Albans,  ifec.  Tyburn 
ahould  be  compared  with  Ollantigh  in  Kent, 


CJorbet«*  Tye  in  Ease j;  meaning  "house," 
not  town.  The  Celts  prefixed  the  suffix,  as 
in  Tymawr,  or  great  house,  Ty-croe®,  JEC. 
The  manor  was  utterly  disintegrated,  and 
has  left  no  recognizable  survival  in  the 
*  London  Directory  of  Street  Names.'  The 
elms  would  have  skirted  the  roadway,  and 
the  "gate"  would  be  a  terminus.  I  should 
add  that  Tt/  is  equated  with  tw}/,  as  for  "  two 
bourns '';  but  can  both  be  identified  1 

_^_      A.  Hall, 

Ikcised  CiRCfLES  ON  Stowes  (9*^  S.  vii.  389). 
—Since  Canon  Green  well  insisted  on  the 
importance  of  this  then -neglected  subject 
a  considerable  literature  has  been  producea 
relating  to  circles  and  cup-marks.  In  1860 
Algernon,  the  fourth  Duke  of  Northumber- 
land«  had  prepared  a  splendid  foliOj  with 
rubbings  and  descriptive  notes  of  these 
markings  in  Northumberland  and  other 
parts  of  the  United  Kingdom.  The  work 
was  never  pubii^hed,  but  tJie  late  Duke  very 
liberally  presented  copies  to  many  of  the 
public  institutions  and  libraries  at  home  and 
abroad.  In  1S67  the  late  Sir  James  Simpson 
published  *  Archaic  Sculf^turinpa,'  bringing 
the  subject  up  to  date.  Since  then  the  Pro* 
ceedifms  of  many  of  the  antiquarian  societiea, 
Britisn  and  foreign,  have  published  papers 
relating  to  these  markings.  In  1875  a  large 
numl>er  of  such  cup-marks  were  found  by  me 
in  India,  and  were  figured  and  described  in  the 
FroceedinrjB  of  the  Bengal  Asiatic  Society 
and  in  *  N.  &  Q.,^  certain  thaorieB  being 
advanced.     The  Government  of  the  United 

I"  States  then  took  up  the  inquiry,  the  result 
of  which  ^  is  published  in  Dr.  Rau's  book 
(Ethnological  Department,  Washington).  My 
ow^n  paper  and  s^ketches  were  reproducea. 
and  the  theories  of  Prof,  Desor,  myself*  and 
others  fully  discussed.  Prof.  Douglas  and 
Prof.  Terrien  de  la  Coup^rie  then  furnished 
an  important  clue,  which  it  has  recently  been 
possible  to  follow  up,  and  the  result  is  now 
in  the  press,  and  will  be  published  by  me  later 
in  the  summer.  The  latest  and  best  informa- 
tion on  the  subject  will  be  found  in  a  paper 
published  by  Mr.  Andrew  Lang  in  the  Von- 
Umporart/  EevmG  two  years  ago,  entitled 
*Cap  and  Ring/  Prof  Bertrand,  of  the 
French  Institute,  devotes  some  attention  to 
cup- markings  and  my  theories  in  his  '  No« 
Origin  es  '  (*  La  Religion  des  Gaulois,'  Pari  a, 
Leroux,  1897).  As  alreacJy  indicated,  the 
Proceedings  of  many  societies  contain  much 
information  scattered  about  in  their  pages^ 
and  if  your  correspondent  is  int'erestea  in 
this  special  line  of  research,  I  hope  soon  t^ 
be  able  to  comTimta^Da^^asA^NSos^'^^'S^ 


492 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9«»8.viljui«  22,1901. 


cup  and  the  ring  are  a  very  ancient  form  of 
inscription,  accompanied  by  re] igioa a  symbols. 
The  aubject  is  too  large  for  a  notei,  but  will 
be  found  treated  in  detail  in  the  paper  now 
in  the  press,  J.  H.  Rivett  UAENiLC, 

Colonel,  A.D.C  to  the  King, 
SohloBs  Wildook,  Switserl&iid, 

Ma.  HtJoeES  should  see  'The  Ancient 
British  Sculptured  Rocks  of  Nortlmmberland 
and  the  Eastern  Borders,  with  Kotice^j  of  the 
Remains  associated  with  these  iSculptures,' 
by  George    Tate,   F.G.S.    (Alnwick,    H.   H. 


Blair, 


Blair,  1865),  an  8vo  booklet  of  46  pp,  with 
12  plates,  depicting  "  every  inscribed  rock  in 
Northuinb^rlanfl  found  in  situ  on  which  in- 
telligible forma  could  be  traced,"  drawn,  with 
one  exception,  to  a  scale  of  half  an  inch  to 
the  foot.  The  late  Dr,  John  Collingwood 
Bruce  issued  in  1S69  a  handsome  folio  volume 
on  the  same  subject,  entitled  '  Incised  Mark- 
ings on  Stone  found  in  the  County  of  North- 
umberland, Argyleshire,  and  other  Places,' 
EicQD,  Welfoed, 

See  Sir  J.  Y.  Simpson  on* Archaic  Scolp- 
turings';  George  Tatcv  *  Sculptured  Stones,' 
Alnwick,  1865,  8vo  j  the  Catalogue  of  the 
Society  of  Antiquaries^  Scotland,  pp.  258-9 ; 
C?)  N,  Hey  wood,  *Cup  and  Ring  Stones,' 
1&89.  I  do  not  remember  whether  Mr,  J, 
Bomill^  Allen  touches  upon  this  unsolved 
riddle  in  *  Prehistoric  Rock  Sculpture/  The 
so-called  **cup"  appears  to  have  been  made 
by  the  use  or  a  compass-formed  implement 
in  making  the  ring.  The  circle  with  en- 
closed dot  is  the  Egyptian  iconographic 
representation  of  the  sun  ;  and  the  astro- 
logical diagram  for  the  sun  among  the  Latin 
astrologers  is  a  series  of  concentric  circles, 
intended  to  intensify  the  circlets  amuletive 
power*  It  is  perhaps  doubtful,  however, 
considering  the  attention  that  has  already 
been  given  to  the  problem,  whether  *  N,  &  Q/ 
can  take  us  beyond  the  hypothetical  stage  of 
the  connexion  of  these  incised  circles  with 
solar  worship.      J,  Holdhh  Mac  Michael. 

Weibh  Makosoeipt  Pedigrees  (9*^  S.  iv. 
412,  483;  V.  109,  358;  vii,  131,  21 3). -Permit 
me  to  reply  to  Mr.  J.  H.  Af atthkws, 
who  is  somewhat  disconcerted  by  my  "ob- 
scurantism "  in  remarking  *Hhat  the  sooner 
modern  Welsh  is  forgotten  the  better." 
1  have  not  my  letter  before  me,  but  I  know 
that  I  was  referring  to  the  practical  hardship 
upon  poor  people,  who  are  greatly  handi- 
cappea  in  life  by  being  tied  down  to  a  patois 
which  is  of  very  doubtful  value  even  to  the 
pbihlogiat.  Much  more  than  enough  of  it 
nA3  ^ ready  been  printed,  and  ^r,  ¥«v«i^ti% 


give€  us  a  surfeit  in  his  Peniarth  catalogie. 
The  idea  of  combining  the  inestimable 
treasures  of  ancient  Welsn  with  it  is  absurd ; 
unless,  indeed,  one  could  adopt  the  ktest 
views  of  Prof.  Rhys,  who  ignores  the  vaHoat 
nationalities  in  his  classincation  of  ancient 
Welsh,  as  if  the  numerous  tribes  of  the 
Britons,  the  Goths,  the  Picts,  the  Belgians, 
(fee,  had  no  share  in  it.  Before  boasting  that 
he  knows  both  ancient  and  mudern  Welsh, 
Me,  Matthews  should  read  some  of  the  older 
WeIshwriters(o£a  past  centuryX  ^^o  frankly 
confessed  their  ignorance  of  the  various 
sources  of  their  old  MSS.,  and  even  of  their 
language.  Perhaps  a  Little  true  learning  on 
the  subject  might  convince  Me.  Matthews 
of  his  ignorance,  and  make  him  a  little 
more  tolerant  of  those  who  cannot  accept 
the  philological  teaching  of  modern  Oxford 
scholars.  I  do  not  pretend  that  1  shall  ever 
be  remembered  (and  1  am  not  anxious  about 
it),  but  I  venture  to  predict  that  the  mbbkh 
of  the  Oxford  school  will  not  survive  for 
another  generation.  Bishop  Stnbbs,  E,  A* 
Freeman,  and  Max  M tiller  gonei,  stndents 
must  think  for  themselves  and  cease  from 
following  blind  guides.  Do  Oxford  men 
know  that  their  inscription  to  the  Martyrs' 
Memorial  has  made  them  the  scorn  of 
Europe*  and  fit  only  to  sit  at  the  feet  of 
Mr.  Kensit !  In  writing  this  I  merely 
refer  to  the  ** extras*'  taught  to  the  "voung 
gentlemen'':  for  their  great  knowledge  of 
the  classics  I  have  the  most  profound  re- 
spect ;  but  pray  let  them  give  up  the  faro© 
of  pretending  to  understand  Welsh,  Both 
the  Bodleian  and  the  library  of  Jesus  College 
are  wretchedly  deficient  in  Welsh  literatura 
and  an  adoption  of  modern  Welsh  vic^  ana 
agnosticism  is  a  poor  substitute  for  tnie 
learning,  Pym  YeatMAH* 

Dakeyoe  Cottage,  Hackney,  Matlock* 

TOWKS  WHICH  HAVE  eHAN&£D  THSIE  SlTlS 
(9^  S*  vii.  206,  273,  359,  417),-  K  L.  IL  may 
be  thinking  of  the  old  town  of  Goa  when  be 
refers  to  the  "strange  behaviour  of  a  sijith 
town  somewhere  in  India.'*  As  I  saw  it  in 
the  sixties  nothing  but  the  very  fine  old 
church  (still  used)  remained,  and  with  its  thick 
walls  is  likely  to  reumin.  The  iBcreasing 
un healthiness  of  the  site  caused  the  exodus 
of  the  town,  Ha£olj>  Malkt^  CoL 

'*It  is  fnrther  stated  by  some  andent  writen 
Ibftt  Perth  ominally  stood  at  the  coufiaence  of  th* 
Almond  and  the  Tay...>.^The  oatiAe  of  il«  remofal 
wa«  a  terrible  inundation  in  1210,  by  whbh  ibe 
town  waa  »we|ii  away  auti  rebuilt  two  mile*  furthw 

down  the  river If  it  ever  hapi>e«Led  tli»t  Perth 

atood  at  the  mouth  of  tbe  Almond*  it  oonld  not 
\  Wx^\)Q«fi.  v^^  \.W  da^U  (aveut  as  there  are  cfaart«ci 


»»8.viLJra.22.i90i.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


493 


eiUnt  more  than  a  century  older  than  1210  which 
describe  fltreet^  and  tenement*  which  make  it 
alrocat  cerlAin  that  Perth  atood  then  where  it 
standi  to-day.  It  ia  thought,  however,  that  the 
tradition  about  the  city  being  swept  away  by  a 
flood  may  refer  to  a  royal  residencet  whicb  in 
believed  t-o  have  stood  near  the  mouth  of  the 
Almond**— Hun ter'a  *  Guide  ta  Perthshire/  p.  50. 

T.  P.   AllMSTEONO* 

Gun  Reports  (9**^  S.  vii.  207,  258).-  It  wm 
on  a  Waterloo  Day  in  the  early  sixties  that  I 
was  addressed  by  my  fellow  ^passenger  a^  we 
were  seated  on  the  roof  of  the  up  sta^e- coach 
from  BrightoHj  and  had  arrived  at  the  top  of 
Peaspottage  Hill  » In  IfilS/^  he  naid,  **  I  was 
in  a  similar  position  to  what  I  am  at  thia  pre- 
sent moment  and  on  this  same  day  of  the  year, 
when  about  midday  I  distinctiy  heard  the 
boom  of  guns  ;  and  thi^  waa,  aa  it  turned  out, 
the  guns  at  Waterloo." 

Harold  Malkt,  CoL 

*'To  HOLD  TIP  OIL  ^*  (6"^  a  I  US},— Until  I 
lately  read  Prof.  Sreat's  *A  Studeofc's  Pas- 
time,' wherein  (p.  132)  the  above  reference 
occur&  I  had  been  satisfied  with  the  noten  in 
Prof.  Henry  Mor1ey*a  edition  of  Qower's  *Con- 
fessio  A  mantis  ■  ("  The  Cariabrooke  Library," 
lloutledge,  1689),    The  not©  runs  :— 

"  To  berA  up  oiU^  to  sustain  the  affirmation  {of 
ZedekiahJ.— W  or  oUt  it  an  old  form  of  ouif  yefl.*- 
*  OU  par  ma  foi.  nre^  ail  mult  voioniiergf'  aaya  each 
of  the  fa  lee  propheta  to  Ahab."— P.  WL 

The  above  explanation  appears  plausible  and 
dimple.    Haa  it  been  disc  red  itecf  ?  H.  P.  L. 

*  Paddle  your  own  Canoe  '  (9**  S.  vi,  450; 
vii  53,  414).— I  do  not  feel  altogether  the  iua- 
tiee  or  cause  of  the  charge  made  at  the  last 
reference^  because  I  did  not  assert  anything 
beyond  what  was  on  the  frontiapiece^  and  the 
fii^t  page  of  the  music  and  words,  and  in 
part  of  the  words  themselves. 

The  copy  I  have  of  this  song  was  published 
by  Hop  wood  &  Crew,  42;,  New  Bond  Street, 
W.;  and  I  may  add  that  Clifton  is  represent^ 
elsewhere  as  being  the  author.  Beyond  this 
I  have  not  any  information  respecting  the 
8ong.  I  confess  the  title-pa^a  of  a  book,  t^c, 
is  not  an  infallible  guide  to  its  author  (more 's 
the  pityX  and  I  have  no  reason  to  doubt 
the  accuracy  of  what  Mb.  Anderson  states 
any  more  than  the  title-page  of  the  song,  or 
to  regret  that  I  may  have  Been  the  innocent 
cause  of  his  contribution  on  the  subject. 

Alfred  Crab.  Jon  a  b. 

This  is  a  very  old  titk  for  a  song  and  for 
verses.  Who  onginafeeiJ  it  I  know  not*  Very 
likely  it  came  into  vogue  about  the  time  that 
Mr.  Macgregor  "  canoed  "  more  or  less  round 
the  world*    In  the  Family  Herald  for  iaS3 


are  some  unsigned  verses  with  this  titla  Mra, 
S.  K.  Bolton  wrote  a  simple  song  also  called 
'  Paddle  your  own  Canoe,*  which  was  very 
popular  m  domestic  circles.  She  was  the 
author  of  many  a  song  and  short  story.  She 
died  in  August,  1893.  In  regard  to  Harry 
Clifton^s  claim,  1  may  add  that  I  have  before 
me  *  Harry  Clifton's  Book  of  Comic  and 
Motto  Songs '  and  in  this  the  piece  is  given 
as  "  written  hy  Harry  CHfton/*  without  any 
composer's  name.  This  song  I  distinctly  re- 
member hearing  sung  constantly  when  1  was 
a  child  in  the  middle  sixties.  T^ter  I  may 
be  able  to  add  to  this  note.         B.  J.  A.  F. 

KiKGSMAN  Family  (S'*>  S.  vii*  390),  -  William 
Lon^  Kingsman,  of  8t.  Marylebone,  was 
admitted  at  Lincoln's  Inn  on  2  November, 
1762 ;  and  Henry  Long  Kings  man,  gent., 
first  son  of  William  Long  rCingsman^of  ITpper 
Seymour  Street,  Fortman  Square,  Esq,,  was 
admitted  there  on  U  July^  1792*  The  latter, 
or  another  of  his  namee,  "son  of  William 
Kitigsman  of  Newbury,  Berks,"  and  a  W©it- 
minster  scholar  in  1787  (then  aged  twelve^ 
became  a  barrister-at-law,  and  died  in  Jamaica 
in  1S02  (*  Westminster  School  Register,  1764- 
1883*).  H,  C, 

Verbs  formed  out  of  Peofer  Names  (9'^''  S* 
vii.  182,  263,  393).— To  mtit—This  word,  ac- 
cording to  the  A\w  Af(/Tithly  Magazine  of 
1  Januaryj  1817,  p.  514,  derives  its  origin 
from  two  Scotch  Presbyterian  ministers, 
father  and  son^  and  both  named  Andrew 
Cant,  tn  the  reign  of  Charles  1.  Whitelock, 
in  his  *  Meiuorials,'  p.  511,  after  narrating  the 
defeat  at  Worcester  in  1651,  says  : — 

^^  Divers  8cota  miniatere  were  permitted  to  meet 
at  Edinburgh  to  keep  a  day  of  huni illation,  ae  they 
tiretisnded.  lor  their  too  much  oomplianee  with  the 
Kinjt ;  ancl  in  the  aame  month,  when  Lord  Argyle 
had  called  a  fmrliafnenti  Mr,  Andrew  Cunt,  m 
mtniBter^  said  in  bis  pulpit  that  (kid  was  bound  to 
own  that  parliament,  for  that  all  other  parliamentd 
were  called  by  mtkn^  out  this  was  hrougnt  about  by 
his  own  band.*' 

Hence  the  imputed  origin  of  the  word  as 
applied  to  fanatical  preaching  and  hypo* 
critical  pretences  in  religion.  But  the  earliest 
use  of  the  word  given  in  the  '  H,E,D.*  is 
1640  :  "  By  liea  and  cants  (they)  Would  trick 
us  to  believe  ^em  saints"  ((Cleveland,  in 
Wilkins's  *Polit.  Ballads,'  i.  S8) ;  so  that  it 
would  have  an  interesting  bearing  upon  the 
matter  to  ascertain  when  tlie  Cants  really 
lived. 

To  (furm^is€.—A  cheap  and  convenient 
mode  of  manuring  (1S95),  still  practised  in 
some  parts  of  Greater  London  in  the  case  of 
radishes,  when  the  straw  is  raked  off  so  soon 
&s  the  auti  is  oat  %vA  tti^W:?^  t4i\*\iv^V  1^£?«k 


494 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    \f^  s.  vn.  jun«  22. 1901. 


o^ration  coDsists  in  covering  eerass  land 
with  long  straw,  coarse  ha\\  or  other  fibrouf* 
matter,  about  20 lb.  ro  the  fall,  Jcc.  (See 
further  Cham6er$'s  Edin.  Joum.y  26  July, 
1845.) 

To  harifetfizt  or  harpey.—Ho  fit  or  supply 
(ft  ship)  with  armour- pi ate.^  treated  by  a 
process  invented  by  H.  A.  Harvey » of  New 
Jersey,  TJ,S.,  aad  patented  in  England  in 
1868.  The  *  H.E.D,^  has  the  following  a  nota- 
tions with  regard  to  the  use  of  the  woi-d  :— 

'*The  vesael la  Harveyed  to  the  wat«r  line'* 

(Baity  Ntws,  21  A%i^.,  1896).  "The  'Harveyed* 
platsa  in  the  testfl  did  not  show  any  marked  supe- 
riority over  the  St.  Chamaod  plale'*  [Time^, 
13  July,  ISW).  '* '  Harveyized*  Bteel  pUt-ea  will  stop 
the  heaviest  cannon  &hot''  [Timtii,  6  June,  1894). 

To  fnorganhe  or  morgamer.—The&G  wordj^, 
used  after  the  manner  of  ''organize  "  or  **  enyi- 
neer/'  were  coined  from  the  name  of  toe 
American  multi-millionaire,  whose  colossal 
organizing  of  trusts  in  the  United  States  is 
regarded  with  distrngt  in  this  country. 

To  yerlc—K  correspondent  of  the  Daily 
Mail  of  25  May  writes  :— 

"Mr.   Yerkea  ha»  arrived  to  show  un  how  to 

*  huaUe/  and  he  is  not  going  back  till  we  have 
leaniL  This  is  good  ;  but  Tniuht  he  not*  while  be 
is  getting  reatiy  to  *  Yerk '  us  to  HamiiFitertdt  get 
hiihand  in  ana  *  Yerk  up*  the  L-C.  ana  IX R,,  the 

*  Thames  st^eamera,'  *  the  Cheapsido  'bus,'  *  the 
mau  in  the  street  with  the  pick/ and  ^  Yerk -the 
old  air  out  of  the  Underg^roiiud  ;  and  when  he  ia 
throtigh^  could  we  induce  him  to  *Yerk  off-*  a  few 
pro -Boers,  Little  En  gland  era,  and  other  self-adver- 
tisers?" 

I  am  indebted  chiefly  for  the  foregoing  to 
the  Wandsworth  librarian. 

J,  H OLDEN  MacMichakl. 

If  to  thia  interesting  collection  nouns  are 
added,  a  striking  example  Ls  furnished  by 
Johnson,  Bos  well,  describing  how  the  lexico- 
grapher "introduced  his  own  opinions,  and 
even  prejudices,  under  general  definitions  of 
words,"  writes  i— 

**  Talkiui;  to  me  upon  this  subject  when  we  were 
at  Ash  bourne  lu  1777,  he  mentioned  Vk  still  stronger 
ini^tance  of  the  predoniinanco  of  hia  private  feelings 
in  the  compoaition  of  this  work  than  any  now  to  be 
found  in  it.  '  You  know*  Sir,  Lor^l  Gower  forsook 
the  old  Jacobite  interest.  When  I  came  to  the 
word  Btitrgodo-t  after  tilting  that  it  meant  **  One 
who  deaerte  to  the  enemy,  a  rovo!ter,"  I  added, 
Sometimes  wt  nay  a  Goweb.  Thuu  it  went  to  the 
pre«s:  but  the  printer  had  more  wit  than  I|  and 
struck  it  out/  " 

In  connexion  with  gernfmander,  the 
correct  derivation  of  which  is  given  ante, 
p.  183  (though  it  might  have  been  added 
that  El  bridge  Gerry  was  f*ubsequently  Viee- 
Pi^esidenfc  of  the  United  States),  Lord  iSalis- 
bury 3  fanciful,  but  erroneous  description 
of  its  ongm  deserves  to  be  noted*   ^^^sakm^ 


st  Heading  on  30  October,  1883,  the  present 
Prime  Minister  observed  :— 

**  In  America  they  have  a  plan  of  pv^ing  to  svety 
political  idea  Bome  forcible  name  which  reuaisi 
fixed  in  the  memory,  and  there  i%  a  ^trooe^s  there 
called  '  jerry Tnanderiug/  It  was  derived  from  a 
Jeremiah  Mauder»  who  was  a  great  politician  in 
bis  day." 

This  attempt  at  derivation  recalls  a  portion 
of  the  conversation  in  the  bar  of  the  **  Eed 
Lion"  at  MUby,  which  opens  George  Eliot*i 
story  'Janet's  Kepentaoce'  in  ^Scenes  from 
Clerical  Life^'  where  lawyer  Dempster,  while 
consuming  his    third  glass  of    brandy -and- 
water,  denned   the  Presbyterian  a  as  a  sect 
**  founded  in  the  reign  of  Oharle-a  L  by  a  man 
named  John  Presbyter...... a  miserable  fanatic 

who  wore  a  suit  of  leather" 

Alfred  F.  Robbins. 

To  hallhomw,—lt  is  quite  true  that  to 
republish  a  book  or  reproduce  any  wort 
without  alteration  as  original  is  in  Get^ 
many  known  as  hallhomtt^,  Heine  nfum 
the  term,  and  in  the  *  Jobsiade'  attention  is 
called  to  the  fact  that  cocks  do  not  lay  eggs, 
as  might  be  inferred  from  the  vignette  or 
tailpiece  in  the  Ballhorn  primer.  But  this 
same  picture  of  the  cock  and  egga,  oreggi 
had  served  before  in  some  such  work  aa  ihat 
of  Aldrovandus  or  Paulus  Jovius  treatitig  of 
marvels,  where  it  was  appropriated  to  tha 
legend  of  the  basilisk ;  for  it  was  generally 
believed,  as  may  be  read  in  detail^  e,^.,  De 
Salgues  (*  Des  Erreurs  'X  that  when  a  cock  io 
portentous  times  laid  an  ^gg^  which  was  sat 
on  by  a  serpent  and  a  toad,  there  wu 
hatched  from  it  the  dreadful  basil iak,  which 
in  varied  forms  was  the  favourit-e  monster 
in  mefli^val  sculpture.  The  Ballhorn  picturo 
as  reproduced  in  the  ^Jobsiade^  resemblei 
the  rude  cuts  of  the  earlier  editions  of  Bir 
John  Mande villous  *  Travels,' 

Charles  Godpbby  Lsuum 

Hotel  Victoria,  Florence. 

To  grahamize.  —  Your  correspondent  hai 
made  a  slight  anachronism  in  regard  to  the 
date  of  the  circumstances  that  gave  rvm  to 
llm  name.  The  exposure  occurred  in  IM 
and  not  in  1841,  and  ^reat  was  the  Indigna- 
tion excited  against  Sir  James  Graham,  who 
at  that  time  was  Home  Secretary,  though  (he 
system  seems  to  have  gone  on  uneh^eDged 
for  many  years.  There  is  an  account  of  th« 
Secret  Chamber  in  the  Post  OfBc©  in  '  Posts 
and  Telegraphs,'  by  William  Tegg,  F,ItH  S. 
(1878),  a  former  correspondent  of  *N.  &  Q/ 
Periodicals  like  the  lUmtrated  London  AVw% 
the  Londmt  Journal,  and  *Tbe  Mysteries 
of  London'  of  that  date  contained  M 
,  a^c^iCQunts  of  the  matter,  Elustrated  by  wood 


9*  8.  VIL  Junk  22. 1901.)        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


495 


engTEvinga.  It  was  said  that  aome  sand  put 
in  a  letter,  .which  fell  out  and  was  not  re- 

§)aoed,  Jed  in  one  iostance  to  its  detecfcion. 
ome  foreign  correspond  en  b*  used  to  write 
on  the  outside  of  their  letters  *'Not  to  be 
grahaiued/'  Johh  Pickfoed,  M,A. 

Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridga 

To  goc^r^.—ThQ  datea  do  not  suit  the  pro- 
posed theory,  for  we  are  confused  between 
uode  and  uephew.  It  seems  that  the  fatality 
at  Namur  occurred  in  1B9Q ;  the  pky  cit^ 
in  evidence  is  date»d  1685  ;  and  the  murder 
of  Sir  E,  B,  Godfrey  took  place  in  1678/9 ;  ao 
the  dates  are  against  Lord  Macaulay. 

A.  H. 

With  reference  to  Mr.  W,  T*  Lynn's  query 
aa  to  the  word  guilloiin  not  being  used  as  a 
verb,  in  Spiera's  '  French-EDglish  Dictionary  * 
will  be  found  "  Guillotimr,  v.a.,  to  guillotine, 
toguillotin";  in  the  English- FrencTi  aeotion, 
^  Guillotiny  v,a.,  guillotiner/' 

Akdeew  Oliver. 

Dr-  Guillotin  certainly  did  not  invent  the 
inatrtiiiient  which  was  called  after  hia  narae  j 
Iot,  besides  the  ''Maiden"  used  long  before 
in  Scotland,  which  m  said  to  have  been  a 
death -doer  of  the  same  kind,  there  was  the 
mannaia  of  Italy,  of  which  I  have  two  very 
curious  painted  representations  in  a  MS. 
Neapolitan  diary  of  the  fifteenth  century 
—  one  of  the  machine  at  rest  (under  date 
10  December,  1466),  and  the  other  of  the 
machine  in  action,  the  culprit  kneeling,  and 
the  executioner  standing  with  hin  aice  raise<l 
ready  to  cut  the  cord,  under  date  12  Auguat^ 
14S4.  In  that  dialect,  as  shown  in  the  MS., 
it  was  called  mannara.  Aldbnham. 

COMTESSE    DE    S^GUR    (9*^    S.    VIK    427).— A 

life  of  the  Com  tease  tie  St'gur  was  published 
by  her  son  the  Marquis  de  Segur,  and  was  in 

Ijrint  during  the  eighties.  I  also  well  recol- 
ect  reading  a  short  biographical  memoir 
brought  out  after  her  death  by  another  .Hon, 
Monsignor  Ga«t<>n  de  B^gur.  The  publishers 
were  Tolra  h  Haton,  Paris, 

JEROBfE  Poll AfiD-UHQUH ART,  O.S.B. 

ENCtLtaH  Ebfresentative  at  thi  Funeral 

OF  Alexakdee  L  (9*^  S.  vii.  447).— The  Duke 
of  WellingUjn  attended  this  funeral  18  March, 
1836,  Herbert  Maxwell. 

[Mauy  replies  are  acknowledged,] 

A  Walton  Relic  {^^  S.  vii.  IS8,  410).— 
Among  the  numerous  Andersons  that 
flonrisned  in  Newcaatle-upon-Tyne  and  the 
neighbourhood  during  the  sixteenth  and 
seventeenth  centuries  I  cannot  find  one  that 
bore  the  initials  J.  D,     The  supposed  hero 


of  the  *'Fish  and  the  Ring"  story  was 
Francis,  second  son  of  Henry  Anderson,  who 
waa  three  times  Mayor  of  Newcastle  and  one 
of  the  repreaentativ'^es  of  the  town  in  Parlia- 
ment from  1529  to  1536.  Francia  himaelf 
became  Sheriff  of  Newcastle  in  1660,  was  a 
merchant  and  alderman,  but  attained  to  no 
higher  honours,  and  died  before  1571.  His 
father,  dying  in  1559,  bequeathed  to  him  the 
family  ff welling  -  house  at  the  end  of  the 
Great  Bridge  of  Tyne,  over  the  parapet  of 
which  bridge  the  ring  is  said  to  have  dropped. 
One  account  of  the  legend  makes  the  hero 
"Sir"  Francis  Anderson,  but  there  was  no 
Sir  Francis  till  the  beginning  of  the  Civil 
War,  nearly  a  hundred  years  later.  ''J,  D. 
Anderson,  I64fi/'  cannot,  I  think,  have  been 
a  Northumberland  or  Durham  man. 

Richard  Welfoed. 
Neweaetb-upon-Tyne. 

Crosier  and  Pabtoral  Staff  (9*  S,  vii, 
387).— With  all  due  deference  to  J.  T*  F,,  I 
suhinit  that  the  terms  "crosier'*  and  **  pastoral 
ataflf "  do  Jiol  represent  the  same  thing.  Pugin, 
Bloxam,  Bo u tell,  Marriott,  and  Lee^no  mean 
authorities  on  matters  of  ecclesiastical  ritual 
—each  and  all  support  my  view. 

L  In  the  ^Giossarjf  of  Eccleaiastieal  Orna- 
ment and  Costume  Qjon don,  1844),  by  the 
late  Mr.  A.  Welby  Pugin,  the  crosier  ii 
described  as 

^'  a  trm^  on  a  ataff,  borne  by  an  archbiihop.  This 
has  been  often  confounded  by  rooder^  wniers  with 
the  pastoral  %X^f[  of  A  bisbop,  which  its  quite  dia- 
BJniuar,  being  tuade  iu  the  form  of  a  crook." 

2.  Bloxam  (*  Companion  to  the  Principles 
of  Gothic  Ecclesiastical  Architectui^,'  Lpn- 
donn,  188^)  sfieaks  of  the  crosier  sui  'differing 
from  the  pastoral  staff  of  a  bishop  in  neing 
surmounted  by  a  cross  instead  of  a  crook/* 

3.  Boutell  (article  *  Cross  ^  in  the  *  Ency- 
clopaedia Britannica,^  ninth  edition,  Edin- 
burgh, 1877)  says  that  the  crosier  is 

'^  the  title  given  to  the  official  staff  of  an  arcb- 
bishop,  whieh  ha«  a  DruBs-head,  and  ao  la  diattn- 
guished  from  the  *  pastoral  st&fiT^  of  bishops  and 
nbbots,  ihe  head  of  which  Is  curved  and  resembles 
that  of  A  shetiherd's  crook.'' 

Again,  in  the  siEth  edition  of  his  book 
'English  Heraldry  '  (London,  1899)  he  refers 
to  the  crosier  as  *'  the  cross- staff  of  an  arch- 
bishop \  distinguished  by  its  form  from  the 
pastoral  staff,  with  a  crook-head,  of  bishops." 

4.  Marriott  (*  Vestiarium  Christian  am/  Lon- 
don, 1868)  speaks  of  the  staff  as  "a  distinc- 
tive mark  ot  a  bishop,^'  and  of  the  cross  aa 
"somewhat  resembling  the  later  crosier  of 
an  archbishop." 

0.  Dr.  Frederick  George  Lee,  F.S.A.— the 
well-know  n  ed\\iOt  ot  tk'Ci  '^  ^DSxiaRiXftTvxiss^  ksv^- 


496 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9^  s.  vn.  juki  22, 1901. 


canuDQ  *^describM58  tho  croaier  as  **&  cross 
mounted  on  a  stafi;  borne  before  arch  bishops 
and  patriarchs,  symbolizing  their  jurisdiction 
and  authority  "  ('Glossary  o£  Liturgical  and 
Eccleaiajstical  Teroaa/  Londortj  1677)* 

Again,  in  the  fourth  edition  of  the  *  Direc- 
torium  Anglicanum'  (London.  1879),  he  say  a 
that  the  pastoral  staff  is  "otteni  but  incor- 
rectly called  crosier/' 

Lastly,  in  an  iuterasting  and  valuable  paper 
on  *  Episcopal  Staves,*  published  in  voL  li,  of 
Archmoiogmi  and  read  before  the  Society  of 
AnUquariea  in  February,  1888,  he  saya  :— 

"Though  the  term*  *  croaier*  and  '  pastoral  aLaff 
have  been  and  are  frei|Qently  uaed  interchaogeably, 
yet  mich  uae,  m  the  writer  vent  urea  to  contend,  is 
inejtact,  loose,  and  erroneoua.  For  the  cmzier— 
that  ifl  a  cro»a  aiirmounting  a  ataff— is  certaialy  not 
n  pastoral  ataS*  or  crook »  nor  is  the  pastoral  BtalT  or 
crook  a  orozier :  these  two  ornam^iita  fcdemagttca 
differing  diatinotly  in  themselvea^  and  belonging, 
both  by  right  and  cuatnm,  to  diatinot  offices  of 
different  rank  and  dignity." 

Dr.  Lee  mtaa  up  hi^  conclusions  aa  follows 
{ArchoBologia^  vol.  li,)  :— 

L  That  the  pastoral  Bbaff  or  crook,  being 
perfectly  distinct  from  the  crosier  or  croatj* 
upon  a  staflf,  ahould  be  duly  and  carefully 
distinguished  from  it. 

2.  That  this  pastoral  staff  or  crook  belongs 
officially  to  all  patriarchs  (save  the  bishop  of 
Rojne),  to  all  cardinals — though  only  priests, 
deacons,  or  laymen  — to  archbishops  and 
bishops,  and  £^  gratid  to  certain  abbots  and 
abbesses  j  and  that  it  is  rightly  and  properly 
borce  in  the  left  hand— to  leave  tne  right 
free  during  public  functions, 

3.  That  the  bishop  of  Eome— whether  by 
divine  right  or  custom^ having,  as  raany 
believe,  universal  jurisdiction,  does  not  carry 
any  pastoral  statf,  save,  as  St  Thomas 
Aquinas  remark s^  when  pontificating  in  the 
dioc^e  of  Treves,  the  curved  crook  of  which 
la  said  si^mbolically  to  imply  an  ecclesiastical 
jurisdiction  which  is  limited. 

4.  That  a  cross  or  crucifix  on  a  staff,  sym- 
bolizing provincial  jurisdiction,  or  jurisdic- 
tion extending  to  the  whole  territory  of  a 
nation^  is  borne  immediately  before,  but 
never  carried  by,  an  archbishop,  to  indicate 
his  office  and  dignity  ;  being  a  co-symbol 
with,  and  a  complement  of,  the  archiepis* 
copal  palL 

*  "A  crozier  i#  apaBtoral  staff,  two  names  for 
the  a»me  thing"— Church  Timts,  JO  April,  1885, 
"  Th«  error  of  confusietg  the  poatoral  or  shepherd's 
crook  with  a  crozier  f which  i»  a  croas  upon  a  staff, 
and  not  a  crook  at  all}  is  constantly  made.  Gni  it 
ii  an  error,  and  not  lesi  so  because  uninformed 
perBOJiM  and  superficialj  thonii^h  dogmauc,  writera 
adopt  and  perpetuate  it*"— BtUitier^  IS  Ji*X^,  \^S«i, 


5,  That  a  doublearmed  cross  or  crucifix  ii 
borne  before,  but  never  carried  by,  the  Pope, 
or  by  any  patriarch,  and  symbolizes  respec- 
tively  the  universal  or  the  more  eat  tended 
jurifldiction  of  the  chief  pastor  before  who© 
It  is  borne.  H.  B. 

City  Cdrio  Collector  (9**^  S.  vii.  340).— 
The  books,  MSS.,  and  objects  of  art  of  the 
late  Rev,  J.  C.  Jackaon  were  sold  at  Sotheby's 
in  December,  1895.  The  priced  cataJoguea 
could  doubtle^e  bo  consulted  at  the  auc- 
tioneers', W,  Eo6Ell¥. 

Designation  of  Forsignees  in  Mexico 
(9^"^  S.  \di,  3B9).— The  origin  of  Gringo  is  thus 
accounted  for.  During  the  American  war 
some  Mexican  natives  heard  Amencan  soldiers 
singing  '*  Green  grow  the  rash^,  oh  1**  Tht 
first  two  word  a  farmed  the  nickname  in  quea- 
tion,  which  is  applied  equally  to  Arnericani 
and  Englishmen.  My  authority  is  *  Through 
the  Land  of  the  Aztecs,'  by  "A  QringOi" pub- 
lished in  1892.  Perhaps  it  may  be  worth 
noting  that  the  singularity  of  the  pseudonym 
created  a  little  confusion  in  the  minds  of 
printers,  for  in  some  quarters  the  authorship 
of  the  book  was  credited  to  **Mn  A.  Gringa 
I  cannot  throw  light  on  the  nicknames  by 
which  Frenchmen  and  Spaniard »  are  dedg^ 
nated.  IL  JoHNSOif. 

Guabacho^  Frenchman,  ia  a  slip  of  tbe 
pen  for  Gahacko.  The  French  form  tii 
Gaifache^  which  will  be  found  in  Littr^  but 
without  etymology.  Gringo  is  in  the  *  Cen- 
tury Dictionary.*  It  is  there  derived  from 
Omgo.  OrigtnaUy  it  meant  "  Greek,"  then 
an  Italian,  an  Englishman,  or  any  foreigner* 
Gachupin  is  an  Aztec  epithet  Cacckopin^ 
'*  prickiy  shoeji,"  applied  to  tbe  Spanbh  con- 
querors from  their  wearing  spurs*  The  corre- 
sponding term  in  Peru  is  Ckapeton^  h&m 
tne  Araucanian  word  chiapit  which  m€«Bi 
"thief,^'  and  was  abusively  applied  by  the 
Creoles  to  Spaniards.  J  as.  Platt^  Jon. 
ITh©  *KKD/ gives  (Miii^o  m  **  Mexican  Sp." ooly,] 

I  venture  to  think  that  Gringo^  Guabackh 
and  GcLchuptn  may  come  from  some  onomir 
topteia,  that  is,  from  the  singmg  of  fairdi 
For  instance,  in  French  there  is  the  varb 
gringotter,  t.c,  humming  or  twittering  Eke  & 
canary  bird.  Al*F,  H. 

I  have  been  told  that  dnritig  the  wir 
between  the  11  nited  States  ancT  M^eo  in 
1346-7  the  American  bands  played  vety  oftian 
"  Green  grow  the  rashes,  oh  I "  and  Hm  tbi 
Mexicans  gave  the  Americans  the  nicknatneof 
the  first  two  wordji^  which  were  soon  chatipd 
into  GriTtgo ;  but  I  cannot  voudt  for  this  m 
\\aWUM^Q^igiiuof  tbe  word.  M.  N.  G^ 


V^  8.  Vn.  June  22, 1901.]        NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


497 


QUOTATTONS  (g***  S,  vi.  480  ;  vii.  74,  170),— 
By  way  of  practically  illuatrating  the  defini- 
tion of  gratitude  now  being  discussed  in 
your  columns,  may  1  (with  sincere  thanks 
for  the  kind  replies  already  received)  ask 
the  '* chapter  and  verse"  of  the  following 
additional  di^fa,  which,  so  far,  have  entirely 
baffled  my  searching  1 

L  **  Le  divorce  eat  I©  aacfement  de  radttltk^."— 
G.  F.  Guichard. 

2.  **  Cett«  lonzue  et  cruelle  maladie  qu'ou  appelle 
la  vie,"— M  He.  de  rEspiaafise. 

3.  **Lefl  amift,  c&h  parents  one  Ton  bo  fait  soi- 
mftme/'— Emilo  (or  Eustftche)  Deschampa, 

4.  Vn  B€ul  en  droit  y  mSDe»  et  de  ce  eeal  eodroit 
Droit*  et  raide  eat  la  cote,  et  lo  sen  tier  ^troU. 

Chapel  m  (or  Cbapekin). 
&,  *'  Ma^cinm  in  mfoimla  i]atura.^'--Liu]iet'u&. 
**  N&tura  pr^stat  in  mininiifl."— LinojEus. 
**  E^nim  tiatura,  nusquam  niaglB  qaam  in  mini- 
mia,  tota  eet."— Pliny. 

6.  '*  MoQrir  n'est  nen^  c^est  notrs  durniAre  heure." 
De  la  Paliwe, 

7.  "  Veave  d'uo  peuple-roi,  maia  reine  encore  du 

E  "  Nemo  potest  impetrare  a  |>apa  bullam  aun- 
tiu&m  nioriendi."— ThoTiiaa  h  Kempia, 

9*  **  Un  livre  eat  un  ami  t\ni  ne  trompe  jamaie."— 
DesbarreaujL  Bernard. 

Philip  Noeth. 

Tee  Acacia  m  Freemasonry  (9^  S.  vii. 
0  112,  213).— The  twiga  I  saw  ijsed  at  a 
Masonic  funeral  cereroony  I  witnessed  as  a 
guest,  at  Montpeilier,  in  the  spring  of  1872^ 
were  those  of  Lycium  barbarum^  the  Barbary 
box  thorn,  or'  Duke  of  Ar^fyU'a  (ik  in 
Loudon's  *A.  and  F*  B./  iii.  1270)  tea  tree, 
the  straggling  bush -creeper  so  often  seen 
over  garden  walls  on  the  south  coast.  The 
same  twigs  were  used  by  the  general  public 
at  the  churches  on  Palm  Sunday  in  lieu  of 
the  more  usual  box.  Bather  curiously  in 
this  connexion,  there  is  in  Loudon's  Maga- 
gme  of  Natural  History,  No.  66,  Oet»  1836, 
vol  ix.  pp.  628-32,  a  **  Notice  of  a  Coogrega' 
tioti  of  Moths  found  in  the  Interior  of  a 
Tree  of  the  False  Acacia  {Eobinia  pseud- 
acacia,  L,).  By  J.  O,  Westwood,  Esq.,  F.L.S/^ 
Thomas  J,  Jisaees. 
Tower  House,  New  Hampton. 

A  Company  of  Mikees  (9"*  S.  vii.  390).— In 
•Rank  and  BadpaV  by  Ottley  L*  Perry,  1887, 
p,  I40d,  is  the  following:— 

*'  The  date  of  fomiation  of  the  Royal  EnKineer* 
U  1780  (George  HIO^    This  corps  had  then  eiisted 
since   1683  aa  a   civ4l   corp«.      Military    En(fifi^*?r 
Cffficer^  were  previously  called  *  Trench  MaslerB/ 
Id  l622<Jflmefl  I.)  Hir  William  Pel  ham  was  *  Trench 
Master.'  (See  Haydn's  *  Dates/)  In  1717  (Au^st  22) 
the   *  Military  Artificers'  were  placed  utider  the; 
•Ordnance    Department,*    dtc.      The    title    up    to  I 
Oetober*  1856,  was  *  Royai  Sappers  and  Mhisra*;! 
and,  previous  to  that,  *  Royal  Military  Artifioera^ 


up  to  March  5,  iSia  Between  17(H  and  1780,  the 
'  Military  Artifieera '  were  recruited  from  the  Roval 
Artillery.  See  8eott*8  *  Britieh  Army/  voL  ni, 
T>p.  333-333,  and  T.  W,  J.  CouoUy'i  '  History  of  the 
Royal  Sappers  and  Miners/  " 

Also  see  'The  British  Army  ;  its  Regimental 
Records,  Badges,  Devices,  ^c./  by  Major 
J.  H.  Lawrence  Archer,  1888,  pp.  110-12  :— 

"According  to  Clode'a  *  Military  Forces  of  the 
Crown,' this  scientific  corps  acquired  its  military 
character  so  far  back  aa  25  July,  16S.'3,  But  it  was 
really  not  until  the  promulgation  of  the  Order  in 
Council  of  22  Aagust,  1717,  that  the  Endneera 
becaine  part  of  the  military  branch  of  the  Ordnance 
Dej>arimcnt.  In  1739»  on  the  reorganization  of  the 
corps,  the  miHtAryrank  of  the  Royal  Engineers  w&a 
not  noticed  ;  yet  it  appears  to  have  been  established 
on  14  May,  1757,  when  all  were  comtnissioned  by 
the  sovereign.  It  waa  not,  however,  on  til  17^ 
thatabwlyof  non-com  missioned  officers  and  men 
were  raised  in  England  by  the  enllRtment  of  arti- 
ficers  in  the  employment  of  the  Board  of  Ord- 
nance, kc." 

In  the  'Army  Liet'  of  1763,  under  the 
heading  of  the  Royal  Regiment  of  Artillery, 
of  which  regiment  Viscount  Ligonier  was 
Colonel  Commander-in-Chief  and  Master- 
General  of  Ordnance,  the  name  of  William 
Phillips  appears  in  tbe  list  of  cajitains,  his 
commisaion  to  that  rank  bearing  data 
12  May»  1756,  He  wae  promoted  to  be  brevet 
lieutenant -colonel  15  August,  1760.  It  is 
evident  that  he  wa^  not  an  officer  of  Engineers, 
for  in  the  list  which  ia  given,  following  that 
of  the  Royal  Regiment  of  Artillery,  his  nam© 
is  not  mentioned.  The  designations  of  the 
varions  ranks  in  the  Engineers  in  1763  are  of 
interest  I  presume  they  were  the  same  in 
1757  when  William  Skinner  was  appointed 
Chief,  14  May  : — Chief,  with  rank  as  Colonel 
of  Foot ;  Director,  with  rank  aa  Lieutenant- 
Colonel  of  Foot ;  Sub- Director,  with  rank  as 
Major  of  Foot  j  Engineer  in  Ordinary,  with 
rank  as  Captain  of  Foot ;  Engineer  Extra- 
ordinary, With  rank  as  Cap  tain- Lieu  tenant 
of  Foot ;  Sub- Engineer,  with  rank  as  Lieu- 
tenant of  Foot ;  Practitioner  Engineer,  with 
rank  as  Ensign  of  Foot 

Beatson  in  the  ^Political  Index'  of  1786 
mentions  that  "the  Office  of  Ordnance  is 
LJivided  into  two  distinct  branches,  the  Civil 
and  the  Military  ;  the  latter  being  subordi- 
nate, and  under  the  authority  of  the  former." 
Also  in  writing  of  the  Master-General  of  the 
Ordnancse : — 

"  He  Is  deemed  the  principal  officer  in  the  civil 
branch  of  the  Ordnance  i  yet  he  is  alwava  chosen 
from  amon^t  the  first  Generals  in  his  ^aksty^i 

service ,He  ia  Colonel  in  Chief   of   the   Royal 

Regiment  of  Artillery,  at  present  consisting  of  four 
battalions;   and  ho  is    invested  with    a   peculiar 
i  u  r iad  ic  tioii  o V  e  r  al  I  his  Maiesst-^  %  ^^^vi\«yi«:*ifeVTSL\\^H'£Sk. 
in   the    several    lcjtt\ftfia.^\Qi^    Vew  ti^   "^^^^sX.^^ 


498 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9*8.  viljui«22,u«l 


dominiaoa  ;  and  to  him  they  are  all  accountable  for 
their  proceedings,  and  from  him  they  receive  their 
p*rtioulflr  orders  and  iustructiona,  iiccording  to  the 
directioDs  and  comiDoiida  ^veti  by  hi^  Majesty  ia 
Coutiml" 

Herbert  R.  H.  South  am. 

Your  Gorrespondeot  will  find  nn  account  ol 
thia  Lieutenant  (afterwards  Mttjur- Genera]) 
Wm,  Phillips  and  of  the  company  of  Miners, 
attached  to  and  forming  part  of  the  Royal 
Artillery,  id  the  *  List  of  Officers  of  the  Royal 
Regiment  of  Artillery  ^  (1900).  The  company 
waa  formed  on  the  representation  of  the 
Board  of  Ordnance  to  the  Maj^ter-General, 
the  Duke  of  Marlborough,  dated  19  March, 
1766,  owitig  to  supposed  prepamtiona  at 
Toulon  for  an  attack  on  Minorca.  Owing  to 
the  capitulation  of  Port  Mahon,  the  company 
waa  too  late  to  be  of  any  service.     H,  P.  L. 

William  Hone  (9^  S.  vii.  408).— In  answer 
to  Mtt.  Ani>eews  I  may  say  that  William 
Hone  is  bwried  at  Abney  Park  Cemetery, 
Stoke  N  awing  ton.  The  inscription  on  his 
**  plain  headstouei"  according  to  a  little  work 
on  the  parish  of  Hackney  in  my  possesaion, 
ia  as  follows  :— 

Williani  Hone, 
Born  at  Balh,  3  June,  1780, 
aiid  died  at  ToltenhELtii, 
6  of  November,  1S42. 
I  paid  a  recent  visit  to  Abney  Park  Cemetery 
t-o  verify  this  inscription,  but,  woe  is  me  1 
though  I  had  seen  the  tombstone  many  a 
time,  I  lost  myself  amongst  tlie  silent  liouseB 
of  the  dead,  and  could  not  find  the  object  of 
my  quest  Inquiry  was  futile ;  the  amiable 
janitor  had  *^  never  heerd  o*  such  a  man." 
Such  is  fame,  though  the  reputatiun  of 
William  Hone  will  survive  as  long  as  his 
works  are  read.  Very  near  to  Hone's  grave 
is  a  monolith  inacribed  with  the  name  of  one 
of  his  friends,  the  engraver  and  skefccher 
S,  Williams,  who  died  21  January,  1846,  aged 
seventy -six  years.  Mb,  Andrews  will  find 
much  information  about  Honeys  illness  and 
funeral  (including  the  inscription  on  the 
tombstone)  in  the  following  little  work  : 
"  Walka  in  Abney  Park  j  with  Life-Photo- 
graphs of  Ministers  and  other  Public  Men 
whose  Names  are  found  there.  By  (Eev.) 
James  Bran  white  French  (James  Clarke,  13 
Fleet  Street,  IBSZy  This  l>ook  is  unfor- 
tunately now  out  of  print  Dickens  visited 
Hone  during  his  last  illness  in  company  with 
George  Cruikshank,  as  will  be  seen  by  the 
following  letter  from  the  great  novelist  to 
John  Forater,  dated  5  October,  1842  ;  — 

'*  I  am  going  out  to  Tot  ten  hum  thia  mofning  on  a 
cheerless  niission  i  would  wiJlin^ly  have  avoided. 
HonBf  of  the  *  Everv-Day  Book,'  is  d^iu^^,  atid  e^nt 
Uruikabank  yestertlay  to  b&g  m«  \ro  4^  6xi4  t^^loi^' 


aa,  hnviii£  re«d  no  books  b^t  mine  of  late,  he  w&nitti 
to  aee  and  shake  haj^ds  with  me  before  (as  Geoip 
said)  *  he  went.*  There  is  no  help  for  it,  of  oouiM; 
flo  to  Tottenham  I  repair  thia  morning."* 

The  next  month  Dickens  went  with  Croik- 
ahank  to  Honeys  funeral  at  Abney  Park,  pre- 
viously attending  a  religious  service  at  the 
house,  a  description  of  which  by  Dickens— id 
which  he  seems  to  have  allowea  bis  imagioA- 
tive  faculties  to  run  wild— led  to  &  contro- 
versy which  ended  rather  badly  for  hiuL 
Particulars  of  this  also  wOl  be  found  in  Mr. 
French's  book  mentioned  above*  1  may  add, 
for  the  benefit  of  others  who  may  wish  to 
find  Hone's  grave,  that  It  is  not  f^r  from  the 
retreat  known  as  ^"  Dr.  Watts'a  Mound,'*  ia 
the  north-eastern  corner  of  the  cemetery,  and 
very  close  to  the  grave  of  Canrabah  Uaulkeft 
a  negro  princeling  who  was  brought  to  Eog- 
land  to  be  educated,  and  who  diea  from  coo- 
sumption  while  under  the  care  of  tie  Bev. 
Jacob  Kirk  man  Foster,  a  minister  of  tiie 
Countess  of  Huntingdon's  Coaoexion  at 
Cheltenham.  Dr.  Foster  also  is  buried  near, 
and  not  far  off  lies  the  Rev.  Thona&ii  Bijuiejr, 
the  protagonist,  I  think,  in  tJie  controvert^ 
with  Dickens  mentioned  above*  So  that  m 
the  parties  to  the  discussion  are  now  sleeping 
soundly  in  areas  of  peace  and  r^oonciiiataoix. 
^ R.  Cla&e. 

N0TE8  ON  BOOKS,  Ac 

Swi^hw^dd   aTtd  it«  Oin^sri.     By    L^y  B^MeU. 

(Longmanfl  h  Co  J 
BwALLOWFiELD^  aidUQ  1820  in  the  poasefesion  of  Ike 
Ruaablle,  and  at  prcacTit  the  residence  of  Sir  g4o41S 
SAid  his  mother  Lady  Eus sell— the  iatt«i-  the  Can- 
atance  Eufssetl  ever  weldotne  in  our  pages— hs^  t  loK 
and  eminently  romantio  histcsry,  v^ich  m  told  wi3 
great  vivacity  in  the  book  before  us.  Situated  ir* 
miles  and  a  naif  south-we«t  from  Wokingham  and 
su  miles  Bouth-east  of  Reading,  it  was  at  ont?  Tune 
inchided  in  Wifidaor  Foreal,  the  circuit  of  «^hidi 
wa*  then  about  fifty-six  miles.  The  nmoor  ol  Swal- 
lowtield,  with  which  until  the  middle  of  the  «x* 
teenth  century  wa«  associated  that  of  t^hinfidd,  is 
mentiuned  in  the  Domesday  Survey  as  xe^tect  in  ihs 
Cmwti*  From  this  survey  we  le^m  that  iu  tkefeip 
of  Edward  th&  Confesaor  ( 1043-66)  Seliog^dk  (Skuh 
field)  and  ^oanesfelt  (Swaliowfiftld).  Willi  am  bide 
n  Solafel  in  Re&dmjJt,  were  h«ld  by  S^i,  '•  Hascsrls 


Rc^s  E./'  in  free  manors  of  the  kuii,  and  weit 
valued  at  IL  e:Ach  fter  annum,  **hu»carTe"  mmsxissg 
probably  in  this  case  aomething  more  thati  /(umfai 
(lomcislkm.  At  the  time  of  the  ConQaetl  h&tk 
manors,  with  many  others,  were  boit<»w«d  mm 
WilHam  FitzUahem,  Lord  of  Br^ieoil,  dagS^ 
to  WUliam  the  Conqueror,  wbo  waa  liii  wtaatd 
oou^in  onc«  removed,  was  him  ol<me«t  Mend,  sad 
addressed  him  a*   ^'couaiii  and  <Mni»eil]w/    At 

,     *  '  The  Life  of  Charles  Dickena.*  br  John  FoiMs. 


9*s.vii.ji7.sb22.i9oi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


499 


Hastm^  FitzOsbem,  "sod  cheval  tot  covert  do 
fer,"  with  Ro^r  Montgomery,  commanded  one  of 
the  three  divisions  of  the  Norman  army.  In  the 
*  Roman  de  la  Rose'  FitzOsbem,  like  Sir  Ozana  in 
Morris,  is  spoken  of  as  *'  col  cuer  h%rdi."  After  his 
death  in  battle  near  Cassel,  as  titular  Count  of 
Flanders,  the  estate  passed  to  his  third  son,  Roger 
de  Breteuil,  Earl  of  Hereford.  It  is  impossible  to 
describe  all  the  vicissitudes  which  the  goodly  lands 
experienced.   In  her  opening  sentence  Lady  Kussell 

3 notes  with  approval  a  quaint  saying  of  Thomas 
'oiler  concerning  the  "  skittishness  "  of  Berkshire 
Iftnds,  which  **  often  cast  their  owners."  This  holds 
specially  true  of  Swallowfield.  which  in  the  time 
of  Henry  II.  was  in  the  hanas  of  the  St.  Johns, 
whence  oy  marriage  it  passed  into  those  of  the 
Le  Despencers,  Emma  de  St.  John  being  lady-in- 
oharse  of  Princess  Katharine,  the  deaf  and  dnmb 
daughter  of  Henry  III.  Sir  John  le  Despencer  built 
in  1256  the  church  of  All  Saints,  which  was  restored 
in  1869-70  by  Sir  Charles  Russell.  After  being 
in  the  possession  of  Baron  Roger  de  Leyboume, 
Swallowfield  came  back  into  that  of  the  St.  Johns. 
Following  them  came  the  De  la  Beches  and 
Beaumys,  the  widowed  Lady  Margery  de  la  Beche, 
a  great  heiress,  having  been  carried  off  and  forcibly 
married  to  Sir  John  oe  Dalton. 

Many  particulars  of  historical  and  antiquarian 
interest,  including  wages,  prices  for  haymaking, 
&C.,  are  supplied.  Swallowfield  Park  was  used 
by  the  Crown  in  the  latter  part  of  the  four- 
teenth century  for  the  breeding  of  horses. 
Edward  III.  was  extravagant  in  horseflesh,  and 
we  find  a  complaint  of  prodigality.  One  "great 
horse"  must  nave  at  least  one  groom  at  1^. 
a  day,  which,  with  the  nrice  of  hay,  2c{.,  and  straw. 
Id.,  will  make  the  dailv  expenses  for  horse  and 
f^room  4^(1.  Swallowfield  was  given  by  Edward  III. 
m  1372  to  his  daughter  Isabella  de  Coucy.  Countess 
of  Bedford.  One  of  the  most  romantic  cnapters  in 
the  book  is  occupied  with  an  account  of  the  nego- 
tiations for  her  marriage  with  various  princes^ome 
of  them  sufficiently  coy  and  recalcitrant.  Koyal 
dukes  then  held  it.  and  it  became  the  dowry  of 
Tudor  queens  until,  in  1582,  it  was  bought  by 
Sunnel  Backhouse^  a  wealthy  merchant  of  London. 
Quite  impossible  is  it  to  deal  at  length  with  all 
the  matter  of  highest  interest  which  attaches 
to  the  manor.  Sir  John  Backhouse,  the  Royalist, 
and  William  Backhouse,  the  Rosicrucian,  are 
both  interesting  figures.  During  the  tenure  of 
the  Backhouses  the  estate  was  connected  with 
the  murder  by  the  Countess  of  Essex  of  Sir 
Thomas  Overbury.  On  19  October,  1670,  the  manor 
passed  by  marriage  to  Henry  Hyde,  Viscount 
Combury,  eldest  son  of  the  great  Lord  Clarendon. 
That  the  historian  wrote  his  history  at  Swallow- 
field has  often  been  stated,  but  is  not  true.  By 
the  second  Earl  of  Clarendon  the  house  was  re- 
built in  1690.  In  1719  it  was  bought  by  Thomas 
Pitt,  known  as  **  Governor"  Pitt,  the  owner 
of  tne  famous  Pitt  diamond,  grandfather  of  the 
flo-eat  Earl  of  Chatham,  who  frequently  visited 
Swallowfield  in  1724.  John  Dodd  became  owner 
in  1737.  Through  Bevans  and  Earles  it  passed  in 
1820  by  purchase  into  the  hands  of  the  Russells,  its 
present  possessors. 

For  years  Lady  Russell  has  "  dotted  down  "  all  the 
information  she  has  been  able  to  obtain.  This  she  has 
turned,  according  to  her  own  account,  into  an  oUa 
podrida  intended,  as  she  says,  for  her  own  family 
imd  neighboiin.    This  nuij  oe  Moonita;  it  ui  oer- 


tainlj;  modest.  She  has  at  least  produced  an  admir- 
ably interesting  and  readable  book,  which,  with 
the  addition  of  portraits  and  pedigrees,  will  be  a 
treasure-house  to  antiquaries  and  genealogists.  The 
portraits  are  especially  numerous  and  attractive. 
Among  them  are  those  of  Queens  Elizabeth  Wood- 
ville,  Elizabeth  of  York,  Catharine  of  Arragon,  Anne 
Boleyn,  Anne  of  Cleves,  Catherine  Howard,  Catha- 
rine Parr,  and  Anne,  Henry  VI.,  John  Planta- 
eenet  (Duke  of  Bedford),  Robert  Devereux  (Earl  of 
Essex)  and  his  Countess,  Sir  Thomas  Overbury, 
John  Evelyn,  Lord  Chatham,  Horace  Walpole. 
Charles  Kingsley,  and  many  Pitts,  Dodds,  ana 
Russells.  Perhaps  the  only  complaint  that  can  be 
made  is  that,  though  the  frontispiece  consists  of  a 
reproduction  of  Komney's  picture  of  the  Lady 
Russell  of  1786-7  and  her  son,  there  is  among  the 
portraits  none  of  the  author  of  the  book.  Views 
are  supplied  of  the  churches  at  Swallowfield  and 
Shinfield  ;  of  interiors,  monuments,  &o. ;  of  the  Pitt 
diamond;  and  of  the  Frost  Fair  on  the  Thames. 
How  many  copies  of  this  work  are  issued  we  know 
not.  Those,  however,  who  by  favour  or  by  pur- 
chase obtain  a  copy  will  be  entitled  to  think  them- 
selves fortunate. 

The  Token  Money  of  the  Bank  of  England.  J797  to 
1816.  By  Maberley  Phillips.  (Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,  Dickson;  Londoo,  Emngham  Wilson.) 
Mr.  Phillips,  whose  work  on  '  The  Bankers  and 
Banking  of  tne  North  of  England'  has  won  an 
assured  place  among  those  who  are  interested  in 
finance,  has  added  to  the  debt  we  owe  him  by 
writing  a  most  useful  book  on  the  token  monev 
issued  by  the  Bank  of  England.  Our  English 
currency  has  all  along  been  a  source  of  trouble; 
but  strange  as  it  may  seem  to  those  little  acquainted 
with  the  subject,  it  was  not  until  the  sixteenth 
century  that  affairs  became  especially  serious.  The 
mediaeval  coinages,  here  as  elsewhere,  were  com- 
monly honest.  They  were  what  they  professed  to 
be ;  but  as  time  went  on  it  occurred  to  the  rulers 
of  many  states  that  to  depreciate  the  currency 
would  be  a  most  beneficial  arrangement.  It  would,, 
they  thought,  put  money  into  tneir  own  pockets, 
and  no  one  would  be  a  penny  the  worse  for  it. 
Henry  VIII.,  in  the  latter  part  of  his  reign,  was 
much  taken  with  this  idea.  He  issued  pieces  which, 
though  of  the  same  weight  and  nommal  value  as 
his  good  money,  were  half  silver  and  half  alloy. 
We  perhaps  ought  not  to  be  too  severe  on  acts  of 
this  Kind,  fraudulent  as  we  know  them  to  have 
been,  for  questions  of  currency  are  intricate  sub- 
jects at  all  times,  and  in  those  days  they  were 
understood  by  no  one.  As  trade  grew,  and  our 
own  countrymen  had  dealings  with  the  whole 
world  (so  far  as  it  was  then  known),  it  became  motrnf 
and  more  necessary  toput  the  coinage  on  a  soand 
footing.  The  Act  of  1696  was  a  strenuous  endeavour 
in  that  direction.  The  old  clipped  and  hammered 
money  was  called  in,  and  its  place  supplied  by  a 
new  coinage.  A  great  mistake,  however,  was  made 
bv  those  who  were  responsible  for  calling  in  the 
old  mone^  and  suppljring  its  place  by  the  new. 
Whether  it  arose  from  ignorance  or  neslect  it  is 
impossible  to  say ;  but  the  results  were  aisastrous. 
In  many  districts  no  monev  whatever  was  to  be 
had ;  and  if  we  may  trust  Abraham  de  la  Pryme 
the  diarist,  and  other  contemporary  authorities, 
great  and  ouite  unmerited  suffering  was  the  con- 
sequence.     For  Si  tUEL'^  ^\«t  \>Cl^&  ^X^kS^^  ^^CASOl^G^  i!^ 

ifent.  ou  \7«»\!L,\yaX  «X»\u\>>i^«  *»SiX3Lwi»Mk  v«^  ^«a*^ 


500 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [^  s  vil  jukk  22,  i»l 


leas.  In  the  latt«r  part  of  the  eifthteeiith  century 
the  people  who  were  rQaponstble  aeem  ta  have 
had  Itttlo  more  knowledge  of  their  businesa  th&n 
their  nradeeeaaora  in  the  daya  of  the  Plantagotiets. 
An  aamirer  of  the  Middle  Agos  might  argue  with 
Bomo  pUiisibility  tliat  they  had  even  lesa.  There 
was  practicaUy  uq  iseue  of  silver  in  the  reign  of 
George  III.  until  the  year  1787.  The  piece*  that 
then  appeared  were  nandaordo  coins  of  proper 
weight ;  i>ut  a&  the  money  they  were  intended  to 
replace  still  continued  to  circulate,  many  of  theae 
heavier  piecea  soou  found  their  way  into  the  melt' 
mg-pot.  From  that  date  to  IS  16  no  further  iaaue 
of  Engliah  silver  proceedecl  froni  the  Mint ;  hnt 
things  had  eot  to  auch  a  pasa  in  17^7  that  the  Privy 
Council  ordered  the  Bank  of  England  to  suspend 
eaah  payments*  This  uaiu rally  increased  the  de- 
mand for  silver.  Those  who  had  metallic  change 
tenaciously  clung  to  it,  XI  parted  with  at  all,  it 
was  only  on  receiving  a  heavy  commission*  The 
hardship  to  the  fioor  and  the  small  triidera  by  this 
atate  of^ things  need  not  be  dwelt  upon.  A  bright 
idea  at  length  struck  same  one  whose  name,  we 
believe,  has  not  come  down  t-o  us.  We  had  become 
possessed,  as  war  m-isfie^,  of  a  very  great  number  of 
Spanish  dollar?.  Theaie  were  coontermarked  with 
a  small  head  of  George  III.  Btam^Ted  on  the  neck  of 
the  B^^ies  of  Charles  III.  and  put  into  circulation 
at  I'd.  yd.  each.  This  strange  plan,  though  long 
persevered  in^  did  not  work  well.  Iraitationa  ana 
forgeries  were  soon  in  circulation.  In  1 804  the  small 
atamp  was  changed  from  an  oval  to  an  ot^tagon, 
but  the  alteration  had  little  effect.  Forgery  on  a 
large  acale  still  went  oti.  Then  came  a  dence  for 
stamping  the  whole  dollar  on  both  sid&Bi  the  kio^s 
head  on  the  obverse,  and  on  the  reverse  Britannia. 
Boulton,  of  the  Soho  Works*  Birmingham,  carried 
out  this  plan.  When  done  wolli  the  coins  were 
haudsomei  but  many  examples  show,  ej^i^ecially  on 
the  reverse,  traces  or  the  original  impreas. 

Daring  tne  iieriod  in  which  these  bpaniah  dollars 
were  passing  as  English  money  the  penalty  for 
forgery  or  uttering  counterfeit  money  was  death. 
Mr.  Phillips  says  that  between  1805  and  1818  two 
hundred  and  seven  peraonfl»  many  of  them  women, 
Buffered  for  this  crime. 

The  book  is  allogethersatiafitctory.  It  deals  with 
the  Irish  tokens  as  well  as  the  British^  and  contains 
good  illustrations  of  the  several  pieces  mentioned. 

Btfore  the  GretU  Pillage,  imd  Other  Mi«cdkmia> 

By  Augustus  Jessopp,  D.D,  (Fisher  Unwin.) 
Tusai  reprinted  essays  of  I>r.  Jessopp  constitute 
very  pleasant  reading.  The  more  tni portent  of 
them  deal  with  parish  life,  on  which  the  writer  is 
an  authority,  and  with  the  parish  priest,  of  whom  he 
ie  an  admirable  example.  By  the  expression  ^'  the 
great  pillage  "  Dr.  Jessopp  means  less  the  spoliation 
of  the  monasteriea  under  Henry  VlII,  than  the 
robbery  of  the  poor,  which  was  far  more  abomin- 
able^ under  Edward  VI.  He  scarcely  exp«»ota  to 
be  believed  in  what  he  says.  After  commenting 
upon  the  indignation  againat  the  Tammany  ring 
^liich  is  heard  in  England,  he  expresses  his  con- 
viction that  some  day  will  be  written  the  history  of 
two  other  rings.  **  The  ring  of  the  misureants  who 
robbed  the  monasteries  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VUL 
was  the  first ;  but  the  ring  of  the  robbers  who  robbed 
the  jKJor  and  the  helpless  in  the  reign  of  Edward  YI. 
was  ten  tinjes  worse.'*  A  close  study  of  this  and 
gnixe^drnM  articles  is  to  be  wanu\'^  iionttQ,e.u.deAc 
We  amiass  mtereeted  in  *  Tbe  Ba*pt\Bm  ol  CVon\b,' 


but  are  delighted  with  the  articles  at  the  cloce  of 
the  volume  on  *  Cu  Cn  !  *  and  *  The  Mole.'  Terrible 
conaequencea  are  anticipated  from  the  defltructiosi 
of  the  latter. 

Murray* It  Handy  CioAMCtU  Maps.    Edited  by  G.  B. 

Grundy,  yi.A.  —  Gnttia,  (Murray.) 
With  the  full  index  by  which  they  are  accom- 
panied, the  two  maps  of  ancient  Greeco^  Northern 
and  ISouthem^  will  be  of  the  higbesst  utility  y> 
scholars.  The^r  are  coloured  so  aa  to  represent  the 
contours  of  altitude,  and  are  in  all  respects  up  to 
date.  Eight  of  these  maps  are  now  ready,  acd 
others  aro  to  follow.  For  the  convenient  study  of 
works  such  as  Dr,  Ridgeway's  *  The  Early  Afe  of 
Greece^  (see  »n/«,  p.  ^9}  the  preaent  inapt  wtU  bs 
invaluable. 

The  Anti^wiry  for  May  contains  ibe  firtt  part  of 
a  descrintion  of  the  Black  Death  as  its  ravipes 

a3ect«d  Yorkshire  in  1349.  There  is  also  an  artK^ 
on  the  story  of  the  Clarendon  Press,  which  it  of 
interest,  while  the  account  given  of  *Tbe  Leftend 
of  Isaiah's  Martyrdom'  wiU  attmot  the  attenttoa 
of  folkdorist^. 

SoMT.  of  the  later  numbers  of  the  InlermMiaet 
furnish  communications  on  the  curiotis  subjeet  of 
the  legal  trial  of  animals  for  certain  crimes  aod 
misdeeds^  Mention  is  also  made  in  thu  conuexioa 
of  the  excommunications  whieb  were  fonnwly 
launched  by  digniSed  eccleeiaatios  ag&inst  the 
noxious  creatures  that  devaat^ted  vinea  aod  $ffi* 
cultural  crops. 

8,  H.  BousyiBLD  k  Co.  promise  *The  Secwt 
Chamberaand  Hiding-Pkces of  Great  Britain:  tbt 
Historic,  Romantic,  and  Legendary  8tories  aod 
Traditions  about  HidinjE-HoleSf  Secret  Chamben, 
&c.,'  by  Allan  Fea,  with  illustrations  by  the  author. 


Jlutiffi  fir  €6nn^wcilamU. 

We  fnuat  ctili  ^secicU  aUerUion  f^  Uu  /aUmms 
fwtius  :^ 

Ok  all  oommunioations  muit  be  wTitten  the  uaiv* 
and  address  of  l^e  sender,  not  neoeaamrily  for  pah- 
lication,  but  as  a  guarantee  ol  good  faiths 

Wb  oaunot  undertake  to  anawer  quone«  prtvataly. 

To  secure  insertion  of  comraunicAtiona  oorrt- 
spondenta  must  observe  the  followin|£  rulea.  Lrt 
each  note,  query ^  or  reply  be  written  on  a  lepantc 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  ud 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  W  hen  answer^ 
iug  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  previom 
entries  iu  the  paper,  oontributon  are  requested  to 
put  in  |>arentheaefl,  immediately  after  the  exact 
neading,  the  series,  volume,  and  page  or  p«fM  t« 
which  they  refer.  Oorreapondents  wha  i»piat 
queries  are  requested  to  head  tb^  aeoood  eon* 
munication  **  Ehiplicate." 

J.  P.  (**  Stock,  lock,  and  barrel ").— S«nd  conUxt. 

NOTiCM, 

Editorial  communications  should  be  tddroMod  to 

"  The  Editor  of  *  Notes  and  Qneriee"*— Advettiie' 

ments  and  BusinesL^  Letters  to  "The  Publiaher"^ 

at  theOflice,  Bream's  Buildingii, Chancery  Lane^£C 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  retum 

^si\nm%i!Qi<iations  which*  for  any  reasoni  we  do  not 

^tissi^x  ^^^^^Osi^T^^'^^^juiinake  no  exoeptioiw 


V 


9*8.vn,Jnin!22,i90i.)      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 

THE    ATHENiEUM 

JOURNAL  OF  ENGLISH  AND  FOREIGN  LITERATURE,  SCIENCE, 

THE  FINE  ARTS,  MUSIC,  AND 

THE  DRAMA. 


T/U  ATHSNjSUM  for  June  16  eoniaitu  Artielu  on 
MB.  8ATAOB-LAMDOB  In  CHIMA. 
ML  MABTBBLINCK'8  MBW  BOOK. 
DB.  JBBSOFP'B  BMAYH. 
SBLIOnONS  from  NIBTZ8CHB. 
SHBFFIBLO  In  th«  BIOHTBBNTM  CBNTUBT. 
B  BW  NOTBLS  :>-I>oom  CSuUe ;  The  Wise  lUn  of  Storacrou ;  The 

fieeond  Tovth  of  Theodora  Deeuifes :  The  Helmet  of  Nevmrre ; 

Ladf  Halfe;  la  the  dty:    The  Yoonff  Squire's  Besolre;   The 

Wisdom  of  B«ii  (  Honoe  Morrell. 
BOOKS  OB  the  WAB. 
▲LFBBD  the  OBBAT. 
BOTPTOLOOICAL  BOOKS. 

0T7B  LIBBABT  TABLB  (How  SeUort  Fight ;  "Bufklo  BUI"). 
LIST  of  MBW  BOOKS. 
BIB  W.  BBSANTi   The    PUBLI8HBB8'  00NOBB8S  et  LBIPZIO ; 

HOCHOWN :  BOBBBT  WILLIAM  BUCHAMAN  ;  Dr.  OABDINBB, 

OLITBB    OBOMWBLL,    and     MAJOB-OBNBBAL    OYBBTON; 


Aug— 
UTBBABT  GOSSIP. 

8CIBMCB  t-Sodettee ;  Meetiogt  Next  Work ;  Ooeolp. 
nMB  ABT8  :~The  Bulj  Age  of  Greeoe  -,  Mote*  from  Borne ;  Sales ; 

Ooselp. 
MUSIC :—■  Tristan  nad  Isolde';  'Loheagrla';  Terdi  Memorial  Ooa- 

eert ;  Oosaip ;  Performaaees  Next  Week. 
OBAMA  :-Goseip.  

TJU  ATUBNjSUM  for  June  1  eontaine  ArtieUe  on 
Tke  LAST  TBAB8  Of  QUBBN  BLIZABBTH. 
CALBMDAB  of  the  IMNBB  TBMPLB  BB00BD8. 
The  WOBXS  of  NOYAUS. 
MB.  HOWBLLS  aad  his  FBIBND6. 
MB.  BODLBT'S  'FBANCB'  in  FBBNCH. 
MBW  NOTBLS:~The  Seal  of  SUenee;  Forest  Folk;  Mr  Heart  aad 

Late ;  Derweat's  Horse ;  A  Daoghter  of  the  Teldt ;  The  Good  Bed 

Barth :  Blaek  Mary. 

GBIMA. 

SCHOOL-BOOKS. 

4TJB  LIBBABY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKa 

BMOLISH  LITBBATDBB  sad  AMBBICAN  PBOFBSSOBS;  LANDOB 

aad  his  BDIT0B8  ;  HUCHOWN  ;  SALB;  BRAZILIAN  NAMB8  Of 

MONKBTSi  "MANBRIVS." 

Also- 
LTTSBABY  GOSSIP. 
8CIBNCB:— Altkea's    Bead    Making    sad    Maintenance ;    SoeieUes; 

Meetlags  Next  Week ;  Goisip. 
FUf  B  ARTS :— Bow,  Chelsea,  sad  Derby  Poroslain ;  Drawings  at  the 

British   Mnseam;    Aeqnisitlons  at  the  National  Gallery;    Mr. 

Ooader's  Water<3oloBrs ;  Salons  of  1901 ;  Gossip. 
MUSIC:— Boyal  Iiallaa  Opera;  Phllharmonie  Concert;  Mr.  fianer's 

Pianoforte  Beeital ;  Gossip ;  Performances  Next  Week. 

'  Blaaehette ' ;  Library  Table ;  Gossip. 


The  ATHENjeUMfor  June  8  eontatiu  ArtUlet  on 

MODBBN  ITALY. 

The  BBCORD8  of  LBICBSTBR. 

OUR  INDO-GBBMANIC  ANCB8TOB8. 

MR.  KBRNAHAN'8  B88AY8. 

The  RIGHT  to  LIYB. 

NBW  N0YBL8 :— Paciflco ;  The  Lord  of  the  Sea;  Parioas  Times t  A 
Forbiddea  Name;  The  DerU's  Plongh;  Her  Majes^  Miaiiter 
By  Command  of  the  Prince ;  Her  Mooataia  LorerT  The  laterioper 

SPANISH  aad  ITALIAN  LITBBATUBB 

LAW-BOOKS. 

8H0BT  8TOBIB8. 

OUB  LIBBABT  TABLB>LI8T  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

The  DAISY  la  AMBBICA  ;  The  MBANIMG  of  "  GBNTB  DI8PBTTA" 
la  the  'INFBRNO';  ORIGIN  of  "PBOOARY";  SUGGBSTBO 
BMBNDATION8  la  CHAUCBR ;  INTBRNATIONAL  PRBS8  CON 
GRBS8  i  The  BARROIS-A8HBURNHAM  MANUSOBlPTa 


LTTBBABY  GOSSIP. 

SCIBNCB  r-The  Royal  Obser?atory,  Greeawich  j  Soeletiee ;  Meetlacs 
Next  Week ;  Goesip.  ^ 

FIN B  ARTS :-The   Royal   Academy;   Sealptore;  "The  Chimes" 

MUSIC :—8taaford's     'Much    Ado    aboat    Nothing':     'Siccfrled 
•We  Meistorsinger';  Kwltal«  byMr.  Friedhelm. 'm.  oSwaky, 
and  M.  do  Pachmaaa ;  Gossip ;  Performaacee  Next  Week. 

DRAMA  :--<  L'Algloa ' ;  'Womea  are  so  Serlovsl;  'A  Ladf  from 


-<  L'Algloi 
';  Gossip. 


The  A  TUENMUM  for  May  tb  eotOaine  Artielee  on 

ST.  JOHN'S  COLLBGB,  CAMBBIDGB. 

AUSTBALASIA  OLD  aad  NBW. 

Aa  BLIZABBTHAN  PUBYBYANCB 

SOHUYLBB'S  B88AYB. 

The  HI8T0BY  of  BOSS. 

NBW  NOYBLS  :-Jaek  Baymoad  ;  My  Boa  Bichard :  A  Sos«  T^mnta. 
ttoa;  A  Yuished  Blval,  Sawdast,  MoSS' ASSlSTSi 
Treasure  of  Oaptaia  Scarlett ;  The  Bordea  of  an  Honour.     ^ '  ' "" 

FBBNCH  HISTOBY. 

TWO  BOOKS  OB  ABYSSINIA. 

THBOLOGICAL  LITBBATUBB 

OUB  LIBBABY  TABLB-LIST  of  NBW  BOOKB. 

BNGLISH  LITBKATURB  aad  AMBBICAN  PBOFBSBOBBi  OBITICA 
CBITICIZBD  ;  SALBS.  — ~ww-». ,  «muaa\/* 

Auo- 
LITBBABY  GOSSIP. 

*^^^°"^PJ  AJlchia's  Maanal  of  Medieine;  Soclettesi  Meettan 
Next  Week ;  Goesip.  '  •«»«««■ 

FINB  ABT8 :-Librarf  Table;    The  Boyal 
-      -  i  dttild 


Borne;  The  Saloas  of  1901;    The 
Gossip. 


r",. Academy t   Notes  from 
(ttildhaU  CMalogue;   Bales; 

MUSIC :-Royal  Italian  Opera;  Rlchter  Concert;  Reeltal  by  Sefior 
Sarasate  aad  Madame  Marx;  PuroeU's  'Fairy  Qaeea ' i  GmsId^ 
Performaaees  Next  Week.  '  *  woesip; 

DRAMA:  — "The  Saciameat  of  Jadas';  "YUorxa"  la  'Timoa  of 
Atheas ' ;  Goesip.  ™"   "' 


ITie  ATHENjEUM,  every  SATURDAY,  price  THREEPENCE,  of 
JOHN    G.    FRANCIS,    Atben»am    Office,    Bream's   Baildings,    Chanoery  Lane,   S.C. 

And  of  all  Newsagents. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,    p^avn.  Jui«»,i«l 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.U., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBPARTMBNT 

THB  lOLLOWDre 

magaziubs  and  t  tDP  APV   PAPTIPQ  withdrawn  from 

BBViBws.  IjiJDAilXiiX    vUITIJjO  oiboul^tioh, 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the   United  ffingdom  at  the  Prices   annexed, 

Until  farther  notice  :— 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 

*.  d.  $.4. 

Argoey 7  6  Macmillan't      ^  ».  T  i 

Blaokwood't      13  0  Monthly  Beview       ^  If  • 

Oentory 10  6  National  Beview        ^        ...        ...  ...  U  • 

Contemporary  Beview         16  0  Nineteenth  Century ^  ...  1«  • 

Comhill 7  6  Pall  Mall           ^  i  % 

Bnglitb  Illuitrated 6  0  Bevue  des  Deux  Mondee     ...  10  0 

Fortnightly  Beview 16  0  Scribner**          ...7  1 

Harper't 9  0  Temple  Bar      ^  ^  1  % 

Longman't       6  0 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATS. 
Bdinburgh       7    6 1  Quarterly  ^       ...     7  I 

The  terms  will  be  1«.  6d.  per  annam  less  to  Sabscribers  living  sufficiently  near  the  Bookitans  t 
have  the  Magazines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANCE,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  lees  period  (bsn 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  niunber  sabecribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MAY  GOMMENGB  AT  ANT  DATS. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  GREATLY  REDUCED  PRICES  BY 

W.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  Railway  BookitaUt,  to  which  plaeei  they  will  he  forwarded  eafrria§e  frm. 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED. 

CBNTURY  MAGAZINE.  The.    Vol.  30       

LONDON  80CIBTY.    2  voU.  for  1891  

a  vols,  for  1892         

CASSBLL'S  MAGAZINE.    Vol.  for  December,  1898,  to  May,  1899.    Illuitrated ... 

.    Vol.  for  June  to  November,  1899.    Illustrated       

- —    Vol.  for  December,  1899.  to  May,  1900  

CHAMBBBS'S  JOUBNAL  of  POPULAB  LITBBATUBB,  SCIBNCB.  and  ABTS. 

Vol.  for  1895 

Vol.  for  1898 

Vol.  for  1899 

QUIVBB  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  April.  1898 

Z November,  1898,  to  April,  1899 

May  to  October.  1899  

GOOD  WOBDS.    VoU.  for  1888,  1892,  1894.  1895,  1897.  and  1898        

SUNDAY  MAGAZINB.     VoU.  for  1889.  1892,  1894.  1895,  and  1898 


«. 

4. 

«.  A 



... 

.•■ 

8 

li 

• 
0 

:V 



... 

U 

0 

...SI 

...         ... 

••• 

.«. 

M.    S  4 



... 

... 

M.    S  4 

•••           ••• 

••■ 

■•• 

•M     S    1 

VoL  for  18M... 

••■ 

9 

0 

^    J  1 

...       ••• 

■■• 

••• 

9 

0 

•M         S        1 



... 

■•• 

9 

0 

»M        S        1 



••• 

^ 

9 

0 

***         •        « 



... 

••• 

M.         t       i 

•••       ••• 

••• 

^ 

T 

f 

•M        t       1 



... 

— 

9 

t 

•M         t       1 

W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRARY.  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 
And  at  over  600  Bailway  BookstalU.  to  which  placet  Subtcriber*  can  be  traaaf«R«d»  fk«e  of 
Protvectui  of  Ttrmu,  4rc..  ntntfrte  upon  application  to  186,  STRAND,  LOfiDON. 


FMBfed  br  JOHN  MDWAB-D  TH^HCl*.  MJfcwwBwa^w^^toMftA  Mt^lnn.  Cteaevf  Lue.  «.& ,  Mi 


NOTES   AND   QUERIES: 

^  yUDinm  ai  littercomtmmiation 

lOB 

LITERARY    MEN,    GENERAL    READERS,    ETC. 

**Wb«i  ftud,  auk*  a  aot*  tf—CAPtAat  OuTTLa. 


No.  183.  KS]         Saturday,  June  29,  1901.  { 


PBIOB  FOUBPSirOK. 


MACMILLAN  ^_Ca^S_NEW    BOOKS. 

RBW  VOLUMB  OF  OHABOB8  AND  AODBB88B8  BT  BISHOP  WB8XC0TT. 

LESSONS  from  WORK.  By  Brooke  Foss  Westcott,  D.D.  D.C.L., 

BUhop  of  Durham.    Crown  8vo,  ftf.  

VOLUMB  IL  NOW  BBADT. 

A  NEW  HISTORY  of  the  ENGLISH  CHURCH.    Edited  by 

the  Very  Ber.  W.  B.  W.  STBPHBN8,  B.D.,  and  the  Ber.  WILLIAM  HUNT.  M.A 

The  ENGLISH  CHURCH  from  the  NORMAN  CONQUEST  to  the 

ACCRSSION  of  BDWABD  I.  (lOt^WJ).    By  the  Ber.  W.  B.  W.  STBPHBNS.  B.D.  F.S.A.,  Dean 
of  Wincbetter.    Crown  Sto,  7«.  M. 


BVMR8LET  8JCRIES.—}HKyf  VOLUMES. 

LETTERS  of  MATTHEW  ARNOLD,  1848-1888.     CoUected 

and  Arranged  by  QBOKQB  W.  B.  BUSSHLL.    Second  and  Cheaper  Bdition.    In  2  volt.  Globe  8to,  lOt. 

VOLUMB  VIIL-NOW  BBADY. 
THE    CAMBHIBGE    NATURAL    HI8T0RT. 

AMPHIBIA     AND     REPTILES. 

By  HANS  OADOW,  M.A.  r.B.8.    Illurtntcd.    8to,  17«.  net. 

DEMOCRACY  versus  SOCIALISM.    A  Critical  Examination  of 

SodalUm  at  a  Bemedy  for  Social  Injuitice  and  an  Bzpoaition  of  the  Single  Tax  Doctrine.    By  MAX  HIBSOH 
(Melbourne).    8vo,  lOt.  net. 


THE  CENTURT  MAGAZINE.  ^^^^  numbbb  now  ready. 

MACMILLAN'S  MAGAZINE. 

Price  1«. 


lUuatrated.    Price  It.  id.    Annual  Subaoription,  poet  free, 
16«. 

Tlu  JULY  NUMBER  eo%tain»  :- 
The  '*MILLBNABY"of  KING  ALFBBD  at  WINOHBSTBB. 

By  Louit  Dver.    With  Beproductiou  of  Tbomycroft't 

Statue  of  Alfred  the  Great. 
The     VUNBZUBLAN      BOUNDABY      CONTKOVBBSY. 

II.  The  Intervention  of  the  United  States.    By  Grover 

Cleveland.    With  Map  of  disputed  Territory. 
IMPOSTOBS    AMONG    ANIMALS.     By   WUliam  Morton 

Wheeler.    Pictures  by  J.  Carter  Beard«  and  from  Photo- 
graphs by  the  Writer. 
OOLB'S  BNGRAVINGB  of   OLD   BNOLISH   MA8TBB8. 

Hampetead    Heath.       Painted     by    John    Constable* 

Bngraved  on  Wood  by  Timothy  Cole.  The  KINO  of  the  SBDANGS.    By  Hugh  Clifford   C  M  G 


ConUnU  :— 
PBINCBSB  PUCK.    By  the  Author  of  *  The  Enchanter.' 
Chaps.  VIU.-X. 

AN   UNKNOWN   CHAPTBB  in  NAVAL  HISTORY.    By 

John  Leyland. 
The  BBBVING-MAN  in  LITBEATURB. 
GALLIA  DBVOTA. 

MAIDEN  SPBBCHB9.    By  Michael  MacDonagb. 
The  PABTING  of  the  WAYS.    By  A.  W.  Ready. 
A   SOUTHERN  VIBW  of  the  NEGRO  PROBLEM     Bv 

H.  B.  Belin.  ' 


MACMILLAN  &  CO.,  LiMiTBT)^  London. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9>8.vu.jcn  20.1901. 


ELLIOT  STOCK'S  NEW  PUBIJCATIONS. 

now  BBADY.  THB  SBCOND  VOLUMB  OF  THB 
•  HISTORY  OP  WBXFORD/ 
In  erown  ito,  tastefully  printed,  bandaomely  bound  and 
uniform  with  *  The  HIttory  of  Old  and  New  Boas/  price 
9te.  net. 

The    HISTORY   of    TIN  TERN 

ABBBT.  ROSBOARLAND,  and  CLONMmBS.  in  the 
COUNTY  of  WBXFORD.  Being  the  Second  Inttalment 
of  the  History  of  that  County  now  in  progress,  compiled 
from  Ancient  Beoords  and  the  State  Papers,  with  Transla- 
tions of  the  Cambridge  and  Canterbury  MSS.  as  regards 
Tintem.    Bdited  by  PHILIP  HBBBBBT  HOBB. 

In  demy  8yo,  bound  in  cloth,  illustrated,  price  7$.  6d. 

S.    GILBERT   of  SEMPRING- 

HAM  and  the  OILBBRTINBS.    By  ROSB  GBAHAM. 

Fellow  of  the  Boyal  Historical  Society  (late  of  Somer- 

ville  College,  Oxford). 
The  work  is  illustrated  by  views,  plans,  and  drawings  of 
the  localities  in  which  the  order  dwelt,  several  of  them 
being  photographs  of  the  Ollbertine  houses  which  have 
survived  to  the  present  day. 

In  crown  4to,  handsomely  bound,  and  profusely 
illustrated,  price  I2t,  6d.  net. 

BERMONDSEY:      its     Historic 

Memories   and    Associations.      With    a    Chapter    on 
Bermondsey  in  Modem  Times.    By  B.  T.  CLABKB. 
" ▲  well  prodnoed  and  InterMttng  book."— Anlv  ^tt^*. 
"  Mr.  Bdwmrd  T.  Clarke  make*  Tery  eonsldetable  elalms  on  behalf  of 
the  dlstrlet  he  has  so  ably  dMoribed.    The  work  has  Tery  many  iUiu- 
tratlons  and  plans,  which  reader  It  all  the  more  InteresUnf." 

DaavOrafhic. 

London :  ELLIOT  STOCK,  62,  Paternoster  Row,  E.G. 
B00K-PLATB8. 

Jvst  pnUlBhed.  Fart  VI..  Vol.  IV.,  Third  Series,  prioe  2«.  ftf. 

MISCELLANEA    GBNEALGGIGA    et 
HBRALOICA.     With   Book.Plate    of  Thomas.  Lord    MansAl. 
between  1736  and  1743 ;  BngraTlnf  of  Arms  and  Greet  and  Facsimile  of 
Aatograph  with  Faneral  Certiflokte.  Sir  Robert  Dioer,  Bart..  1087.  *e. 
London :  MITCHBLL  ft  HU0HB8. 140.  Wardonr  Straet.  W. 
NOW  READY.  SBOOND  BDITION.  HBVISBD  and  BMLAUOBU. 

THB  PENNY  CHRONOLOGY:  a  Series  of 
Important  Dates  In  the  History  of  the  World  from  tbe  Rein  of 
Darid  to  the  Present  Time.  Second  BdiUon.  By  W.  T.  LYMn7b.A. 
F.R.A.S. 

O.  8T0NBMAN.  39.  Warwick  Lane,  B.C. 


MOW  RBADT.  SBCOMD  EDITION.  REVISED  and  AUOMBNTED. 
price  Sixpence. 

ASTRONOMY       for       the       YOUNG. 
By  W.  T.  LYNN,  RA.  F.R.A.S. 
O.  STONBMAN.  39.  Warwick  Lane.  E.C. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.— The  SUB8CRIPTI0K 
_  toNOTBS  AirDQDBRIBSfrMbypoakialO«.SAfi»r8lzlfealhi; 
mJDs.ed.  forTwelre  Moaths,  ineladinr  the  Folame  Jmdn.-JOHM  C. 
FRANCIS,  NoUt  and  Qutrits  Offlce.  Bsvam's  «-"-•' **-- '  — 

3c 


[GOES,  MSS..  &c.— Messrs.  H.  H.  HODGSON  t 

'_  00..  Anetloneera  of  Books  and  Literary  Property  «t  ereiy 
deeetiptioa.  Libraries  and  smaller  OoUeetioas  CMvfSty  CUatafwi 
and  promptly  oflbred  for  Sale.  Paekia*  and  RemoTal  anrnaged  f» 
Valnntions  made  for  Probate  er  other  porposea.  Aaeiion  nonas.  111 
Chancery  Lane  (Fleet  Street  end).    BstabUataed  ISOS. 


►OOKS,  RARE  and  OUT  of  PRINT,  SUPPLIED. 

^  Please  state  waau.  CATALOGUES  free.  LIbcnrtea  asid  SmI 
Parcels  of  Books  Purchased  for  Cash.  Distaaeo  ao  ohieet.  SmcW 
List  of  Wants  free.— HOLLAND  CO.  Book  Mer^haBts.  F*^^^^^-*-'- 


B^ 


OOOKS— ALL    OUT-OF-PRINT    BOOKS    rap- 

1^  pUed.nemattaronwhatSablecc  Aeknowledfod  the  wotM  ew 
as  the  most  espeit  Bookflnders  estaat.  Pleas*  stata  «aata.~EAXEB1 
Oreat  Bookshop.  14-16.  John  Bright  Street,  Blnalafham. 

AOENCY  FOR  AMBRICAJI  BOOKft. 

C;L     p.    PUTNAM'S  SONS,   PUBLISHERS  and 
^  •  BOOKSBI^LBES. 

of  27  and  SB,  West  SSrd  Street.  New  York,  and  S4,  BBDFOKD  STEIR. 
LONDON,  W.C..  desire  to  eeU  the  atteattaa  of  «ka  RIAlXm 
PUBiac  to  th«!  excellent  facilities  presented  by  their  Braaeh  Beam  Is 
London  for  filling,  on  the  most  fsToarable  terau*  nrdsis  for  ttilr 
own  STANDARD  PUBLICATIONS,  and  for  ALL  ASiaatnAii 
BOOKS. 

Catalogaes  seat  on  applleaUoa. 


LONDON         LIBRA 
ST.  JAItES'S  SQUARE.  8.W. 
PolreM-HIS  MAJESTY  THE    KDfO. 
iVMM«a-LBSUE  STEPHEN.  Bm}. 
F«r«-Pr««M(««a«-The  Bight  Hon.  Lord  Aetoa.  the  Right  B« 
Balfour,  M.P .  th«  Right  Hon  W.  &  H.  Laeky,  MjTlXC.L.. 
Spencer,  Esq. 

Tru^U€$—kighx  Hob.  Lord  ATsbary,  F.R.8..   Eight  Hon. 
Rosebery,  Rlxht  Hon.  Sir  M.  Orent  Doff. 

The  Library  contains  aboat  900.000  Voismes  of  Aadeat  and 
Literatare,  in  Various  lancnages. 

Subscription. «  ayeer;  Life  Jdembeistalp  eeeovdlag  toacr 
Volumes  are  allowed  to  Country,  end  Trn  to  Town  Iteasbaia    .... 
Room  open  from  Ten  till  half-post  Six.    Ofttelocae.  Fifth  Edltiea. 
2  Tois.  royal  Svo.  price  2U.  (  to  Member*.  1«« 
C.  T.  HAOBERO  WRIGHT.  LL.D., 


B  T. 


M 


Frteelj..erbfpe« 


ORING'8    QUARTERLY.     An  lUnstnted 

Journal  doTOted  to  Art.  Arehseologr.  aad  Heraldry,  of  whisk  tts 

presentation  of  handsome  Plates  is  a  speciality.       Frte   *      ' 

i«.  3((. ;  or  Annual  Subeeriptlon.  A*.,  inelndiag  poetaga. 

Tht  ContetUM  of  ^'o.  Xrill.  (Iftm  StrittX,  new  rmd9,  i 
ARLB8.    With  S  Illustrations.    By  E.  Stanley. 
SOME   MODERN   DUTCH  ARTISTS.      With  S  Fall-Fage  FlaISS,  SBt 

Of  which  is  a  Photograrure  printed  oa  Plate  Paaar 
SHAKI-:8PBARE'S    TREATMENT    of    the     ROSn    aC   YOUC  «i 

LANCASTER.    By  Gale  Pedrlok.  F  R.HIat.8oe. 
OFF  the  BEATEN  TRACK :  OaarlaTeioek  OssCla.     Dlastiatod     Wf 

B.  Gibbon. 
An  ORIGINAL  COPPER  PLATE.  Jk-XAris.  Ike. 

The  DE  LA  MORE  PRESS,  tt,  High  Holbom,  Loadaa.  W.& 


JUST    PUBLISHED. 
With  16  Photogravure  Portraits  and  36  other  Illostrations,  4to,  42«.  net. 

SWALLOWFIELD   AND  ITS    OWNERS. 

By  LADY  RUSSELL,  of  Swallowfield  Park. 


*'  Lady  Russell  has  produced  an  admirably  interesting  and  readable  book,  which,  with  tbe  additioB 
of  portraits  and  pedigrees,  will  be  a  treasure-house  to  antiquaries  and  genealogisto.  The  portimitstn 
especially  numerous  and  attractive." — Notes  and  Queries, 


L0NQMAK8,  QtBi^^^  ^  CO.liWi^QXi^^^Ti  X^k^and  Bombftj. 


( 


9«^8.vn.juKB29,i90i.i      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


501 


LONDON,  SATUBDAY,  JUNE  t9,  1901. 


CONTENTS. -No.  183 

NOTKS  :— T.  8.  Mulook.  601 —Orientation  and  Controversy. 
ft03  —  Bethlem  —  "  Grey  irroat "  —  •*  Beriih  "—lay  down 
boards  —  Kyrie  Blelson,  506  —  "  Oalloglass  "  —  Bxeter 
Theatre  In  1348  — "OodHni?"  — J.  Lavlngton  —  "  Mere 
Han  **— *'  Lake."  a  Preoioas  Stone—**  Same  stream,"  506 — 
**Takmi  "—The  Couvade— Maslo  Pabllthers*  Sli^s.  507. 

QUBRIB8:  — 'American  Husbandry '  — Portrait  of  Lady 
Harley- Sweeny  Todd— P.  de  la  Pori— Stewart  Family, 
508— Authors  Wanted— Blood  as  a  Prophylactic— Susanna 
Hoption  —  **  Grand  Tour  "  —  Smokinfr  a  Cobbler  —  **  Old 
Curiosity  Shop,"  509— Lines  on  Queen  Victoria— **  Foot  of 
he»»f  "-Hawthorne— Scott  Query— Authors  Wanted,  610. 

BKPLIBS  :— Dowafcer  Peeress— Sir  C.  Hatton's  Monnment, 
610— Flower  Game—**  All  roads  lead  to  Rome"— Tea  as  a 
Meal,  611— R.  Bstoott— Painted  and  Bngraved  Portraits— 
Jowett.*s  Little  Garden—**  Snicket  "-Canadian  Boat  Song, 
612— Rawlins- White  — Unmarried  Lord  Mayors- Dntton 
and  Seaman  Families  — Stow's  Porirait  — Old  London 
Tayems,  613— Bnsllsh  Hexameters  and  Bleiriac«— Bottled 
Ale  — George  Wallace,  614  —  Municipal  Toincidencps — 
Author  Wanted— Hand-ruling  in  Old  TiMivpaffes,  61S — 
Books  on  Manners— Pens  :  **  Nibs,"  4c.— Telegraphy :  Uji 
Invention— D'Auvorgne  Fsmily— Dr.  Barry,  51«— Vanish- 
ing London  :  Christ's  Hospital— Dual  Number  in  German 
— Pews  annexed  to  Houses,  617 — **  Coost"— New  Bngland 
Donatlon-Partv.  618—*'  Rymmyll "— *  At  tur.  Acad. ,'  619. 

NOTBS  ON  BOOKS  :— Miss  Weston's  *  Legend  of  Lancelot ' 
— *  Feudal  Inquisitions  and  Asseraments  '—Gilchrist  and 
Perkins's  '  Itinerary  of  the  Bnglish  Cathedrals.' 

Notices  to  Correspondents. 


THOMAS  SAMUEL  MULOCK.  178^1889. 
(Cond^uUd  from  p.  484. ) 

The  following  extracts  from  one  of  Mr. 
Mulock's  letters,  dated  31  August,  1824,  are 
characteristic : — 

*'  The  difference  to  which  you  advert  as  at  present 
■abeisting  between  us  is  not  a  difference  between 
man  and  man,  but  between  light  and  darkness, 
liberty  and  bondage,  truth  and  error.  Tt  is  im- 
possible  for  me  fully  to  express  the  pity  I  feel  for 
you.  I  can  truly  say  that  the  first  tears  of  gospel 
compassion  I  ever  dropped  were  shed  last  night 
when  contemplating  the  force,  subtlety,  and  success 
of  the  iSatanic  craft  permittedly  practised  upon 
yon.  Your  case  is  measurably  revealed  to  roe. 
You  are  the  victim  of  inordinate  afiectionj*  which 
nothing  but  the  riches  of  grace  can  subdue.  Finding 
that  the  privileges  of  the  glorious  gospel  were  and 
are  deemed  idle  talen  by  one  to  whom  it  is  not  given 
to  know  the  mysteries  of  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven, 
Satan  has  ensnared  you  to  rob  Christ  of  his  glory 
by  bringing  down  the  blessedness  of  the  faithful 

to  the  level  of  unbelief Instead  of  predicting 

terrible  things  as  connected  with  your  departure 
from  the  truth,  I  say,  speaking  the  truth  in  love,  I 
am  persuaded  better  things  of  you,  and  things  that 
accompany  salvation.  For  God  is  not  unrighteous 
to  forget  your  work  and  labour  of  love.  Your 
kindness  to  myself  in  times  past  has  been  wonder- 
foL  But  as  it  grew  out  of  the  truth,  so,  when  the 
truth  Itself  is  suspended,  the  actings  of  a  liberality 
which  (for  a  small  moment)  caonot  proceed  from 


infoard  afection  must  be  checked  rather  than 
cherished. 

Mr.  Mulock  was  the  last  man  to  check 
any  one's  liberality,  and  between  1822  and 
1824  Mr.  Reade  lent  him  sums  amounting  to 
over  200/.,  none  of  which  was  ever  returned. 
One  sum  of  20/.  was  to  pay  the  expenses  of 
one^  of  Mr.  Mulock's  numerous  lawsuits. 
Various  small  sums  were  lent  in  answer  to 
such  appeals  as  the  following  :— 

"  I  must  ask  you  to  send  me  two  pounds  and  no 
more.  I  do  not  wish  to  be  constrained  to  ask  of 
any  one  but  yourself,  to  whom  the  Lord  hath  given 
a  iargmeM  of  heart  not  to  be  found  but  in  specially 
gifted  gosx)el  creatures." 

The  theolofrical  correspondence  is  brought 
to  a  graceful  conclusion  by  Mr.  Afulock 
denouncing  Mr.  Reade  from  his  pulpit  as  **  a 
blasphemer  and  the  greatest  heretic  that  had 
arisen  since  the  days  of  the  Apostles  "  !  In 
Mr.  Mulock's  chapel  a  special  portion  was 
railed  off  where  only  the  **  elect"  could  sit. 

On  7  June,  1825,  he  was  married  at  Stoke 
to  Dinah  (bom  23  April,  1794,  die^  3  Oct., 
1845),  daughter  of  Thomas  Mellard,  a  well-to- 
do  tanner  of  Newcastle-under-Lyme  (9*^  S. 
vi.  210),  who  was  then  living  with  her 
widowed  mother  at  Longfield  Cottage,  on 
Hart  Hill  (whence  the  "Longfield  "  of  'John 
Halifax  ')•  In  the  previous  March  her  sister 
Mary  Mellard  had  married  William  James 
Reade. 

Mr.  Mulock's  eldest  child  and  only 
daughter  was  born  at  Stoke,  and  he  thus 
entered  the  event  in  his  family  Bible : — 

"Dinah  Maria  Mulock,  daughter  of  Thomas  & 
Dinah  Mulock,  was  born  on  April  20th,  1826.  at 
.%  m.  past  seven  o'clock  in  the  evening.  Ps.  127. 
averse.    Prov.  23,  34-25.    Is.  60,  21." 

While  at  Stoke  he  also  published  his 
'Mystery  of  (Godliness*  and  'Letter  to  Mr. 
Hunt,  Oxford.*  After  leaving  Stoke  in  1831 
he  went  I  know  not  where,  but  in  1845  he 
again  spent  some  time  in  Liverpool.  On 
16  May  of  that  year  a  speech  of  his  on  the 
grant  to  Maynooth  is  reported  in  the  Liver- 
pool Mercury ;  on  the  24th  he  has  a  stinging 
article  in  the  Liverpool  Chronicle  entitled 
'The  Duke  of  Newcastle;  or,  England's 
vScribbling  Liberator,'  and  on  the  26th  a 
letter  in  the  Railway  Record  on  the  Direct 
London  and  Manchester  Railway.  He  also 
preached  in  Dr.  Thom's  chapel  in  Bold  Street 
discourses  which  the  latter  says  "it  is  out 
of  my  power  ever  to  forget" 

Later  he  lived  in  Scotland  for  some  time, 
and  was  editor  of  a  newspaper  there.  In 
1850  he  published  'The  Western  Highlands 
and  Islands  of  Scotland,  Socially  GotL«.vd«^«3i.^ 
&c.  (Invert\e«a,  ¥L^\\}[\  *, '^A\t\svsx^^^  ^«OT\sa^ 
8vo,  ^^%  pp.\  Wid  «\>ox)X  >(>aft  ^sbs&sy  NSaafcNsswi^ 


502 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     (^8.yiLJuK>2B^i90L 


pamphlets  on  the  Free  Kirk  and  education 
questions  and  on  the  case  of  Prof.  McDougall. 

Mr.  Mulock  was  a  friend  of  Sheridan 
Knowles  and  an  intense  admirer  of  his 
dramas,  on  which  he  lectured  in  Liverpool 
and  elsewhere. 

During  the  later  years  of  his  life  he  lived 
at  Stafford.  In  1865  he  was  committed  to 
Stafford  Prison  for  contempt  of  court,  he 
having  published  a  pamphlet  entitled  '  The 
Divorce  Court  and  the  (Jhetwynd  Case' 
while  the  Chetwynd  divorce  case  was  sud 
judice.  He  seems  to  have  thrown  himself 
into  this  matter  with  all  his  old  enthusiastic 
obstinacy,  and  refused  to  obey  Judge  Wilde's 
injunction  restraining  him  from  further 
comment.  Writing  to  his  friend  John  Beavis 
Brindley,  afterwards  hrst  Recorder  of  Uanley, 
on  28  Sept.,  1864,  he  says  :— 

**  If  he  had  simply  contiDed  himself  to  the  exac- 
tion of  a  promise  from  me  not  to  publish  matter 
which  would  probably  or  necessarily  come  out  in 
evidence  before  the  Court,  I  would  at  once  have 
yielded,  but  the  Judge  (1  think  unwisely  and  un- 
warrantably) persisted  in  extorting  a  pledge  which 
struck  at  the  root  of  all  freedom  ot  the  press.  My 
correspondence  with  Chetwynd,  hid  wife,  her  familv 
and  fnends,  is  not  only  unobjectionable,  but  useful, 
instructive,  and  clearly  demonstrating  that  1  was 
the  acknowledged  common  benefactor  of  all 
parties.  I  did  not  feel  myself  bound  to  submit 
to  dictation  of  so  arbitrary  a  cast,  and  I  do  not 
repent  of  my  conscientious  contumacy.  But  taking 
a  tar  loftier  view  of  the  entire  case,  1  am  convinced 
that  as  a  believer  in  the  Scriptures  of  Truth.  1  am 
called  on  to  obey  evtry  ordinance  of  man  for  the 
Lord's  sake.  LI  Judges  ordain  Injustice,  upon 
their  heads  be  the  guilt,  but  on  my  part  I  will  not 
contravene  their  improper  exercise  of  power." 

Writing  to  Mr.  Brindley  on  the  same 
subject  at  a  later  date,  he  adds  :— 

**Ib  it  true  that  the  independent  electors  of 
Newcastle  got  30^.  per  man .'  As  for  IStatford,  such 
wholesale,  open  corruption  was,  1  am  informed, 
never  before  practised— to  the  tune  of  at  least 
20,00(V.  The  best  reform  would  bo  to  disfranchise 
the  Borough,  or  send  the  Town  Crier  and  the 
Public  Scavenger  as  representatives,  l^hty  could 
not  bribe." 

On  23  Oct.,  1865,  he  communicated  to  the 

?ress  'Some  Errors  and  Omissions  of  the 
ublic  Journals  with  reference  to  the  late 
Lord  Palmerston,'  speaking  of  political 
events  which  passed  under  his  personal 
knowledge.  Mr.  Mulock  mentioned  that  once 
when  Lord  Falmerston  had  circulated  a 
printed  statement  complaining  of  the  bad 
and  often  illegible  writing  of  public  otticials, 
he  himself  wrote  a  letter  pointing  out  that  it 
was  due  to  ''  the  false  eagerness  of  professed 
teachers  to  put  children  into  cramped  small 
hand";  and  **Lord  Palmewtou,  who  never 
pooh-poohed  honest  hints,  as  ia  cM«V)tQ&x^ 


nowadays,  answered  the  writer  in  warm 
terms  of  acknowledgment  and  admitted  the 
soundness  of  his  remarks.'^ 

Early  in  1868  he  was  summoned  by  Mr. 
William  Edwards,  of  Forebridge,  Stafford, 
with  whom  he  lodged,  for  a  trifling  amount  of 
rent  which  he  disputed.  The  trouble  seems 
to  have  arisen  through  Mr.  Mulock,  "  who, 
as  most  of  the  inhabitants  of  this  county 
were  aware,  was  a  gentleman  who  corre- 
sponded very  largely,"  having  asked  the 
servant  to  buy  him  some  stamps  on  a  Sunday, 
which  the  landlord,  from  religious  scruples, 
forbade  her  to  do.  Though  advanced  in 
years  Mr.  Mulock  "  stated  lus  own  case  in  an 
able  and  amusing  speech"  of  considerable 
length  and  quite  up  to  his  old  form  :— 

*'0n  one  occasion  Mrs.  Edwards  brought  the 
jjrrave  chaiig^e  against  him  of  having  too  many 
visitors.  He  was  rather  startled,  and  ventured 
to  say  something  about  the  rights  of  iodgen  to 
their  own  premises,  and  this  was  the  cause  of  her 
l$iving  him  a  week's  notice.  Ue  sent  for  Mr. 
Edwards  and  expostulated  with  him.  He,  poor 
man,  was  very  civil  and  very  meek— so  meek, 
indeed,  tliat  he  could  see  at  once  that  he  was  one 
of  those  unfortunate  beings  who  were  subjected 
to  the  tyranny  of  *  petticoat  governmeou'  He  had 
nothing  to  say  in  defence,  and  he  [Mr.  MulockJ  had 
not  the  heart  to  do  more  than  give  him  a  brief 
lecture  on  the  law  of  landlord  and  lodger,  not 
omitting  to  inform  him  that  lodgers  had  a  right  to 
their  own  premises,  and  that  Mrs.  Edwards,  in 
complaining  of  the  number  of  visitors— -who  wero 
as  respectable  as  any  in  the  neighbourhood— had 
taken  a  great  liberty. ' 

Referring  to  Mr.  Edwards's  cooscientiQas 
scruples,  he  continued  :— 

*'  With  regard  to  this  he  might  safely  say  he  had 
lived  a  long  life,  and  could  live  comforubly  with 
Turks,  intidels,  and  heathens  ;  but  he  really  could 
not  get  on  at  all  with  self-righbeous  people— pa^ 
ticularly  Sabbatarians  and  other  Pharisees.  These 
were  the  people  who  above  all  others  were  the  real 
pests  of  society.  They  were  so  in  England,  but 
atiU  more  so  he  might  say  in  Scotland,  where  he 
siometimes  lived,  and  where  these  ludicrous  and 
an-Christian  Sabbatarian  scruples  prevailed  to  the 
fullest  extent.  It  was  a  very  common  thing  for 
Sabbatarians  in  that  country  to  attend  three 
services  at  church  on  the  Sabbath— as  they  hypo- 
critically and  incorrectly  termed  the  Lord's  Day— 
and  after  the  last  of  these  services  adjourn  to  the 
dachan,  which  was  in  plain  English  the  pot-hooee. 
where  they  remained  the  rest  of  the  night,  ovea 
until  morning." 

He  also  alludes  to  his  daughter  with  pride  :- 
**  He  might  state  that  he  had  the  happinea  to 
have  a  daughter  whose  powers  the  world  well 
knew— a  very  celebrated  writer— a  daughter  who 
was  very  kind  and  obedient  to  him,  and  who  wm 
worthy  of  every  respect  and  honour.** 

.     Mr.  Mulock  was  also  at  one  time  oonfined 
Vui'^XASiot^  fik»sbun  through  the  influeiifltof 


g>»  8.  VIL  Juki  29. 1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


608 


some  magistrates  whose  displeasure  he  had 
incurred. 

He  seems  to  have  continued  his  literary 
activity  to  the  last,  for,  writes  Mr.  Thomas 
Mulock  (now  of  Kilnagarna),  ''  in  1869,  after 
the  disestablishment  of  the  Irish  Church,  he 
wrote  an  article  which  was  almost  prophetic 
in  foreshadowing  the  fate  of  the  Irish  land- 
lords." 

Mr.  Mulock  died  11  Aug.,  1869,  in  Lichfield 
Road,  Stafford,  aged  eightv.  He  is  described 
as  having  been  a  tall,  handsome  man  of 
gentlemanly  bearing,  very  witty,  and  an 
excellent  conversationalist,  but  decidedly 
eccentric  and  obstinate  to  a  desree. 

He  had  two  sons,  Thomas  Mellard  (born 
18  Nov,,  1827,  died  22  Feb.,  1847)  and 
Benjamin  Robert  (born  18  June,  1829,  died 
1863),  neither  of  whom  married.  In  an  article 
on  the  late  Mrs.  Craik  in  MacmilUifCs  Maga- 
ztjie  for  December,  1887  (p.  82),  Mrs.  Oliphant 
made  some  insinuations  against  the  character 
of  Benjamin  which  were  entirely  without 
foundation,  and  could  only  have  been  made 
as  the  result  of  ignorance  or  some  mis- 
understanding. Mr.  Ben.  Mulock  was  a 
civil  engineer  with  considerable  gifts,  full 
of  native  wit,  and  highly  honourable.  He 
held  several  professional  appointments  in 
Brazil,  Russia,  and  elsewhere.  Though  death 
came  to  him  suddenly  as  the  result  of  an 
accident,  on  his  sister's  own  authority  he 
died  without  owing  a  penny  to  any  one. 

The  information  I  have  been  able  to  give 
is  only  scrappy,  but  may  serve  to  provide 
some  record  of  an  able  man  and  original 
character,  who  for  sixty  years  lived  a  life  of 
strenuous  intellectual  activity. 

Aleyn  Lyell  Reade. 

Park  Comer,  Blundellsands,  near  Liverpool. 


ORIENTATION  AND  THE  EXIGENCIES  OF 
CONTROVERSY. 

CoNTBOYERSiALiSTS  of  all  sorts  and  kinds 
have  constantly,  as  we  are  well  aware, 
adopted  the  device  of  making  quotations 
apart  from  their  context.  So  striking  an 
instance  of  the  use  of  this  method  occurs  in 
a  recent  number  of  *  N.  <fe  Q.'  {ante,  p.  431) 
that  I  am  induced  to  occupy,  with  the 
Editor's  permission,  a  certain  amount  of  the 
space  available  in  giving  the  particulars  of 
tne  case.  A  correspondent  signing  himself 
IbjlOuA  quotes  what  he  calls  '*  Mr.  Arnott's 
words,''  taking  them  from  an  article  on 
'  Orientation '  which  I  wrote  in  the  course  of 
last  year  (9">  S.  vL  276). 

My  article  consists  of  five  paragraphs, 
and  18  headed  'Orientation,'  cScc,  and  relates 


partlv  to  interments  and  partly  to  churches. 
At  the  end  of  the  second  paragraph  the 
orientation  of  churches  in  England  comes  in. 
The  churches  are  described  as  Duilt  to  stand, 
according  to  the  general  rule,  east  and  west. 
It  is  said  that  to  that  usage  there  were  ver^ 
few  exceptions  in  the  Middle  Ages,  but  it  is 
added  there  were  some,  and  one  is  mentioned. 
It  is  further  stated  that,  allowing  for  these 
exceptions,  **  the  churches  have  aJso*  by  an 
almost  invariable  rule  been  built  to  stand 
east  and  west."  It  is  further  explained  in 
my  note  that  the  custom  of  churches  being 
built  to  stand  east  and  west  has  been  pre- 
served hitherto  down  to  "  the  present  day,** 
i.e.,  generally  preserved,  though  with  certain 
exceptions,  such  as  those  noted  above.  The 
meaning  is  perfectly  clear,  viz.,  that  the  rule 
for  the  position  of  churches  was  a  general  one, 
but  not  so  absolute  as  never  to  be  broken. 
The  phrase  "  down  to  the  present  day  "  is  not 
explained ;  its  comprehensiveness  would  be 
understood  by  those  acquainted  with  the 
subject  of  orientation,  but  this  absence  of 
explanation  seems  to  have  misled  IbaouA. 
A  break  in  the  continuousness  of  the  custom 
occurs  for  a  short  time  just  where  he  was 
taking  his  '*  walk  "  when  he  made  notes  on 
orientation  and  sent  them  to  be  published, 
with  a  reference  to  my  words,  in  the  columns 
of  *  N.  <fe  Q.'  The  aforesaid  exception  to  the 
custom  occurred  in  the  years  preceding  the 
Oxford  movement,  during  which  churches 
were  not  unfrequently  built  without  regard 
to  orientation,  as  in  the  case  of  St.  John  s  at 
Chatham ;  and  other  examples  might  easily 
be  named.  With  the  Oxford  movement  the 
custom  of  the  orientation  of  churches  was 
resumed. 

I  am  sorry  to  trouble  my  readers  with  this 
long  explanation,  but  I  must  ask  their  indul- 
gence while  I  add  to  what  has  been  said  the 
following  statement  relating  to  the  contro- 
versial nature  of  Ibagub's  proceeding.  From 
my  article  at  9^  S.  vi.  276  he  makes  this 
extract,  calling  it,  as  I  said  above,  '*Mb. 
Arnott's  words  "  :— 

"  Churches  in  England  have  always  and  by  con- 
tinuoas  use  in  the  Church  of  England— from  early 
times,  through  the  Middle  Ages,  down  to  the  present 
day— been  placed  east  and  west." 

Ibaou^  here,  using  the  controversial  methods 
to  which  my  opening  words  have  reference, 
entirely  ignores  the  context.  In  making 
his  quotation  he  omits  the  necessary  refer- 
ence to  what  had  gone  before,  though  the 
"words"  he  quotes  cannot  be  understood 
apart  from  the  context  and  are  not  f&&£\.^ 


504 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     P*  s.  vii.  jun.  29,  iwi. 


utated   when  quoted  in   the   way  In  which 
IsAGui  quofces  them. 

Perhaps  I  may  be  allowed  to  set  out  the 
two  texts,  that  ol  my  note  at  9^  S.  vi.  276 
aad  Ib ague's  text  in  his  note  antr,  p.  431. 
Here  is  the  text  of  my  note  on  orientation, 
requiring  in  order  to  be  understood  reference 
to  the  previous  context : — 

**  Here  I  mil  remark  that,  whereas  the  churches 
in  EngUnd  h^ve^  as  I  m.\d,  always  and  hy  can- 
tinuous  use  in  the  Church  of  England— from  early 
iimee^  through  the  Middle  Ag<^,  down  to  the 
preiient  day  — been  pk*;ed  east  atid  west,  the 
eofltom  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  la  not  the 
«ame." 

Here  is  Ibaou^^s  version,  reference  to  the 
context  carefully  excluded,  '*whereag"  left 
on  one  side,  **  as  I  said  "  left  out  (without 
acknowledgment)  altogether  :— 

"When  I  wrote  before,  I  was  not  thinking  of 
inierments,  hot  of  Mr.  Arxott's  word«  (9*"  b.  y'u 
277}  that '  churches  in  Eiigland  have  always  and  hy 
oontinuouB  nse  in  the  Church  of  England— from 
early  Uro«a,  through  the  Middle  Agen,  down  to  the 
preficnt  day— been  placed  east  and  west/  and  his 
uifereQce  as  to  *  the  Komau  MiBeion/  " 

Here  I  mi^ht  stop,  but  to  avoid  inisappro- 
hension  I  will  adci  the  remainder  of  the 
note:— 

"  If  anybody  will  take  a  walk  from  Christ 
Cburch,  Lancaster  Gate,  along  to  Holy  Trinity, 
Eufiton  Koadf  seeking  fof  the  true  Church  by 
orientation,  ha  will  ^tch  up  at  the  Primitive 
Methodist  Chapel,  Seymour  Pla<^ei  which  alonet  of 
the  many  places  of  womb ip 'BO  far  as  T  know — in 
that  direct  linei  orientates  properly." 

This  ia  a  good  instance  of  the  modern 
methods  of  controversy  to  which  I  have 
alluded  in  the  second  part  of  the  title  of  this 
article.  Examples  of  a  similar  kind,  re^em- 
bling  in  their  method  that  employed  by 
Ibagu^  whether  of  neglect  of  the  context^ 
misquotation,  or  the  like,  are,  I  am  sorry  to 
say,  not  unfrequently  to  be  found  in  the 
works  of  a>ntroversial  writers.  I  will  here 
mention  some  quarters  in  which  those  who 
are  curious  in  such  matters  may  search,  and 
not  without  success  in  discovering  cases  in 
point ;  but  first  I  must  make  one  or  two 
additional  remarks  on  Ibagu^  and  orienta- 
tion. 

Orientation  is  a  subject  which  has  not 
hitherto  been  much  investigated  in  England. 
Dr.  Wick  ham  Ijcgg  has  made  some  valuable 
remarks  on  it  in  letters  to  the  Church  Titnes. 
I  am  but  ai4  an  explorer  in  a  land  not  much 
traversed.  As  for  Ibagu^  and  his  walk 
past  Marylebone  Church  to  the  Primitive 
Methodist  Church,  he  resembles,  with  regard 
to  thjB  subject,  a  man  walking  for  a  few 
hundred  yards  along  the  bonier  Uwe  oi  a 


iBrge  couutiyj  say  Ruasia^  taVu\R  no\;ea 'a*l\Bt.^%i^^m^,\t'\&\.T45^Q<irrected  the  list  after 


what  he  can  see  of  the  country  from  that 
narrow  border  line^  and  then  publishing 
them  with  the  title  *Notea  on  Russia:  an 
Account  of  that  Country  under  its  Different 
Aspects.* 

Mit.  George  Angus  made  some  remarks  in 
the  columns  of  '  N.  <fe  Q/  on  one  of  my  articles 
on  orientation.  ^I  could  take  in  good  part 
the  observations  of  this  gentleman,  and  if  I 
did  not  think  it  necessary  to  reply,  it  was  not 
from  any  disrespect  to  him.  Me  Afgus 
diffei-s  from  Ibaou^  in  two  points.  Firsts 
in  remarking  on  orientation  he  knows  very 
well  what  he  is  writing  about  j  and,  secondly, 
he  does  not  employ  a  ^-nom  de  plume,^  but 
writes  under  his  true  name. 

To  recur  now  for  a  moment  to  the  methods 
which  have  been  adopted  by  some  controver- 
sialists in  dealing  with  their  opponents.  The 
instance  that  is  most  likely  to  occur  to  the 
reader  is  that  of  NeaVa  *  History  of  the 
Puritanfi,'  taken  in  connexion  with  the  list 
of  Puritan  ministers  silenced  at  or  before 
St.  Bartholomew's  Day^  1662.  Daniel  Neai 
was  a  ^reat  controversialist,  and  was  not  at 
all  particular  in  the  manner  in  which  he  set 
out  his  statements.  He  was  exposed  hy 
Warburton  in  a  pamphlet  which  is  genendly 
included  in  editions  of  the  bishop  a  works. 
The  compiler  of  the  list  of  ministerg  ejected 
at  or  before  St.  Bartholomew's  Day,  1662, 
was  a  controversialist  The  list  had  to  be 
made  up  to  two  thousand,  if  possible,  and 
names  were  sought  for  far  and  wide;  the 
consequence  was  many  mistakes  were  made, 
which  were  pointed  out  at  the  time.  When 
certain  ministers  in  various  parishes  in 
Essex  attempted  to  commemorate  St.  Bar- 
tholomew's Day  in  1862,  founding  their  com- 
memoration partly  on  Dr*  Calamya  list, 
the  controversial  character  of  the  Bst  was 
exposed  in  articles  published  in  an  Easex 
paper  by  the  late  Mr,  H.  W.  King,  a  very 
learned,  able,  and  careful  antiquarian  writer : 
it  was  shown  to  be  unreliable^  that  the 
number  two  thousand  was  an  exaggerated 
number,  and  that  the  number  ejected  at 
St.  Bartholomew's  Day  did  not  come  up  to 
that  totaL  Moreover,  Calamy  had  included  ia 
his  list  of  ejected  ministers  those  who  were 
indeed  ejected,  but  had  taken  the  places  of 
the  loyalists  in  Parliamentarian  or  CnuD- 
wellian  times.  In  many  cas^  the  former 
rightful  parsons  had  survived,  and  at  the 
Restoration  they  returned  to  their  places 
and  the  intruding  occupants  had  to  leava 
Cakray  includes  all  those  who  were  replaced 
in  this  way  in  his  list  of  two  thousand  ejected 
at  or  befor-e  St.  Bartholomew's  Day,  16bi 


9»8.viLjin«29.i90i.)      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


605 


it  was  first  pwbliahed,  but  after  all  it  was 
characterizecf  by  &  controirerBial  bias  in 
favour  of  the  Nonconformists.  It  is  probable 
there  may  be  inaccuracies  in  Walker's  *  Suf- 
ferings of  the  Clergy,*  but  I  never  heard  of 
a  controversial  character  being  attributed  to 
the  book  so  as  to  make  it  unreliable. 

Again,  w©  have  the  instance  of  Dr.  Turfcon 
and  Dr.  Wiseman  in  the  earlier  years  of 
the  last  century.  Dr,  Turton  was  Regius 
Professor  of  Divinity  in  Cambridge,  and 
afterwards  Bishop  of  Ely.  Dr.  Wi.^eman  had 
published  a  boot  on  the  Eucharist  and  the 
interpretation  of  St.  John  vi,  in  connexion 
thei^vvith.  Dr.  Turton  published  8ome  remarks 
on  this.  Dr.  Wiseman  replied,  and  Dr.  Turton 
rejoined.  Some  one  had  cast  discredit  on  the 
lejirning  of  Dr.  Wise  man  ^on  which  Dr.  Turton 
remarked  that  he  (Dn  Turton)  had  cast  no 
reflection  on  Dr.  Wiseman  in  this  respect; 
bat  he  complained  of  Dn  Wiseman  for 
writing  in  a  controversial  manner,  and  said 
that  he  was  **  learned  after  the  manner  of  a 
controversialist,  not  after  that  of  a  student" 
Dr,  Turton,  moreover,  specified  certain  of 
Dr,  Wiseman's  controversial  methods. 

The  secondary  title  of  this  article,  'The 
Kxieencies  of  Controversy^'  is  taken  from 
the  tianserd  Knollys  Society *s  publication  of 
'  Tracts  on  Liberty  of  Conscience,'  issued  by 
the  _Baptists  a  good  many  years  ago.  This 
publication  affords^  if  I  am  not  mistaken, 
m  tt^  introduction  and  other  places,  some 
apt  illustrations  of  the  asserted  "exigencies 
01  controversy/'  Examples  of  this  kind 
might  be  multiplied  to  a  great  extent,  but 
1  will  now  add  no  more.  S.  Aexott. 

Ealins.  

Betiilem.— The  official  name  of  the  hos- 
pital appears  to  be  Bethlera,  a  Bill  having 
just  passed  the  House  of  Lords,  and  being 
before  the  House  of  Commons,  which  bears 
the  title  Bethlem  Hospital  Bill,  D, 

**GiiiY  GROAT/'— In  Christopher  Marlowe*s 
pJay  *  The  Jew  of  Malta '  Ithamore,  the  slave^ 
says,  **  I  '1!  not  leave  him  worth  a  grey  groat '^ 
{Act  IV*  ac.  iv,).  This  passage  is  quoted  in 
the  *H.E.D,'  as  an  emphatic  equivalent  for 
*' groat,''  and  compared  with  ** brass  farthing," 
Tnis  is  obviously  correct,  but  I  think  Mar- 
lowe had  sometning  further  in  his  mind. 
Was  not  ha  thinking  of  the  debased  currency 
i^ued  tluring  the  latter  years  of  the  reign  of 
Henry  VIIL 1  What  is  known  m  the  third 
coinage  of  that  king  contained  two  ounces  In 
twelve  of  alloy,  ana  those  of  the  fourth  coin- 
age w  ere  far  more  debased,  being  only  half 
Sliver  and  half  alloy .    I  have  often  examined 


coins  of  these  issues.  They  are  very  grey 
indeed,  utterly  unlike  the  bright  pieces 
of  former  days  The  first  coinage  of 
Edward  VI,  was  also  of  a  very  inferior 
character.  Long  after  it  was  remedied 
this  disgraceful  state  of  things  must  ha%^e 
left  a  deep  impression  on  the  popular 
mind,  and  an  allusion  to  the  almost  wortnless 
grey  groats,  which  many  people  in  the  latter 
ye<ars  of  Elizabeth  must  nave  seen  and  all 
have  heard  of,  would  be  very  effective  with 
an  audience  whose  fathers  had  sufiered  by 
the  depreciation  of  the  old  standard  value  of 
the  silver  currency.  The  *H.E.D,'  quotes 
from  *  The  Abbot '  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  chap,  iv,, 
"  I  would  have  been  his  caution  for  a  grey 
groat  against  salt  water  or  freah."  So  the 
phrase  seems  to  have  become  proverbial.  See 
Hawkins's  *  Silver  Coins,'pp,  132,  135,  130, 
Edwakd  Peacock* 
K-irton^n-LiDdaeyp 

*' Berth "=To  lay  down  floohboards.— 
This  meaning  is  given  in  the  *  Diet,  of  Kentish 
Dialect '  as  occurring  in  the  parish  books  of 
Wye,  in  Kent,  during  the  reign  of  Henry  VIIL 
In  the  year  1640,  from  the  parish  of  Kingston, 
near  Canterbury,  the  following  presentment 
was  njad©  at  a  visitation  of  the  archdeacon  : 
''  that  many  of  the  pews  of  the  parish  church 
are  old,  ruinous,  unoirthed,"  A  second  pre- 
sentment in  the  same  year:  "Our  pews  lack 
bearthiug,  which  we  are  about  to  tjerforra.'' 

At  the  neighbouring  parish  of  Swingfield, 
in  1661,  the  owner  of  a  certain  estate  in  the 
parish  **  at  his  own  proper  cost  and  expense 
caused  the  «arae  two  pews  to  be  new  birthed, 
heightened,  and  amended/'  &q. 

In  the  *  H.E.D.'  is  yiven,  "  Berth,  to  board, 
cover,  or  make  up  with  boards,"  The  above 
examples  occur  in  the  visitations  of  the  Arch- 
deacon of  Canterburj^  now  in  the  cathedral 
library  at  Canterbury, 

From  St  Margaret's,  near  Dover,  in  1606, 
the  following  preijentment  was  made  ;  "That 
the  chamber  or  loft  under  the  bells  is  not 
birthed  or  boarded,  but  lioth  all  open  very 
dangerously."  Arthue  Hussky* 

Taiikerton-an-SeA,  Kent 

Kyrie  Eletsok*"A  few  Greek  words  re- 
main unchanged  in  the  Latin  service-books 
of  the  Western  Church.  Of  these  the  most 
frequent  are  *'  Kyrie  Eleison,"  which,  as  they 
formed  part  of  all  litanies^  long  and  short, 
were  so  often  repeated  that  they  x>assed  into 
familiar  speech.      Thus  in   *  Don    Quixotei,' 

eirt  i.  ch.  vi.,  mention  is  made  of  a  hero  named 
on  Kirieleison  de  Montalvan,  who  is  a  cha- 
racter in  the   romance  ^Tirante  el  BlanjCA.' 


606 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,      p-^  8.  vn.juxE  29,1901. 


Hngton  occupied  the  heiffbta  of  Kirie  Elfiiaon 
(ITapier,  vi.  158).  There  in  a  small  place 
between  Durham  and  Finch  ale  known  locally 
as  *'  Pity  Ma^'  W,  0.  B, 

"  GALtoGLASS.*'  —  Spenser's  statement  — 
*  View  of  State  of  Ireland/  in  *  Works '  (GlobeX 
p.  640— that  '^gailogla  signifyes  an  English 
servitonr  or  yeoman"  on  which  doubt  is 
cast  by  the  '  H.E.D.,  is  appjarently  finally 
disposed  of  by  two  fiants  in  the  Dublin 
Eecord  Office.  In  No.  132  of  Philip  and 
Mary,  dated  2  April  1657  (Sth  D.K.RJ..  72), 
■  mention  ia  made  of  -  bonaght  for  80  Scottici, 
commonly  called  galloglasaea,  for  one  quarter 
of  the  year."  And  in  No.  917  of  Elizabeth, 
dated  17  July,  1506  (11th  D.K.RX,  136), 
Hugh  OWIadaen  "Is  to  find   80  scottici  or 

ijalloglasses  for  four  weeks  each  year.*'  I 
epive  to  others  the  thorny  question  of  the 
connotation  of  scottid^ 

KoBT.  J,  Whitwell, 

Oxford. 


An  Exeteb  Tkeatrk  in  1S48,— Tbeatten* 

feion  of  any  intending  historian  of  the  Eng- 
lifth  stage  should  be  drawn  to  two  very 
striking  records  given  in  Prebendary  Hin- 
gea ton  -  Band olph's  'Register  of  John  de 
Grandison,  Bishop  of  Exeter  (I327«69)/  The 
first  is  ^^Litera  pro  iniqua  fraternitate  de 
Brothelynghara,"  isaued  by  the  bishop  in  134S, 
and  vigorously  denouncing  some  wicked  men 
who  had  secured  the  use  of  the  Exeter 
*'  Theatre,"  under  the  pretence  that  they  were 
performing  a  pl&y.  The  other  is  a  document 
of  1352|  wherein  the  bishop  forbids  the  per- 
formance of  an  injurious  and  scandalous  play 
"in  Theatro  nostre  Civitatis."  Such  very 
early  theatrical  records  should  have  tbeir 
parallels  elsewhere.      Alfred  F.  RoBBiNft. 

"GODLING,"— The  editors  of  the  ^H.E.D; 
appear  not  to  have  exhausted  the  meanings 
of  this  word.  It  has  sometimes  been  used  to 
signify  a  treasure  in  the  possession  of  a 
private  owner.  Dr,  Adam  Clarke,  in  a  letter 
to  Mr.  Lewis,  23  March,  1S26  (*  Works/ 
vol.  xiii.  j>.  241),  says:  "If  I  could  get  a 
thorough  girl,  that  would  serve  one  for  love, 
and  take  proper  care  of  my  books,  god  lings, 
curiosities,  ^c.^  I  should  delight  in  lier,  and 
she  will  meet  with  every  kindne^*  An 
earlier  instance  ought  to  be  found. 

Richard  H,  Thornton. 

PortUud,  Oregon. 

Joseph  Lavinoton,  died  1709.= Not  with- 
standint^  the  statement  t'O  the  contrary  in 
the  *  Diet  Nat.  Btog.,'  vol.  xxxii.  j>,  213, 
Joseph  Lavington  (father  of  George  Laving- 


ton^  Bishop  of  Exeter)  was  rector  of  Newton- 
Longville,  Bucks.  He  ac^juired  this  \ivmg  in 
1680  by  an  exchange  which  gave  the  living 
of  Upbam,  Hants,  to  Edward  Young,  after- 
wards Dean  of  Salisbury,  the  father  of 
Edward  Young,  author  of  *  Night  Thoughts.' 
See  LipacomVs  *  Hist,  of  Bucks,*  vol  iv, 
p.  266  ;  and  cf.  Foster's  '  Alumni  Oxon,  1500- 
1714,*  p.  886,  No,  32.  The  pariah  registers  of 
Newton-Longville  show  that  the  '  Dictionary' 
is  in  error  in  stating  that  a  John  Lavington 
was  rector  there.  H.  C. 

"Mere  Man."— Madame  Sarah  Graud  hu 
been  giving  a  lecture  on  this  favourite  t^>pic 
of  hers  at  St  George's  Hall*  and  the  question 
has  arisen  as  to  the  intrfiduction  of  the 
epithet.  Madame  Grand  confessed  she  her- 
self knew  naught  of  its  origin.  "A  Scotch 
Doctor  '*  writes  to  the  Daily  Mad  (27  May) 
to  the  following  effect  :— 

'*  The  «arli«^t  use  of  t.he  phraie  known  to  me  ia 
in  the*  Shorter  Cfttecihistn.V  where  it  is  said  tb»t 

*  no  tnera  Dj&n,  (tince  the  Fall,  is  able,  m  this  tif?, 
perfectly  to  keep  the  Commandrnentii.*    The  jiKruse 

*  uaught  OD  '  in  bcotUnd,  and  was  probably  brought 
to  England  shortly  after  the  Union.  Tb©  only 
difficulty  in  the  way  of  thia  theory  is  that  it  allowg 
barely  two  centuriea  for  the  Engliah  mind  to  see  the 
joke.** 

Give  due  value  to  the  context,  and  as  an 
Irishman  I  would  respectfully  ask,  Where 
does  the  **  joke"  come  int  S.  J.  A,  F. 

**Lake,"  a  Precious  Stone.— On  p.  93  of 

*  The  History  of  Persia,'  by  C^pt.  John 
Stevens,  1715  (translated  from  the  Spanish 
of  Pedro  Teixeira^,  are  enumerated  certaia 
precious  stones  protluced  in  **  the  kingdom 
of  CamiMzya^^'  in  India,  among  them  being 
"  lake/*  I'he  original  Spanish  has  iaqueqw}^ 
and  Stevens  (who  further  on,  where  the 
word  occurs  again,  omits  it  entirely)  seems 
to  have  invented  this  word  "lake"  to  repre- 
sent it.  What  kind  of  a  atone  a  laqne^ma  is 
I  am  not  quite  sure.  Domingo«f  Yieir^'s 
Portuguese  dictionary  says  that  la^ueftt  is 
a  '"termo  da  Asia,'  and  ex^tlains  it  as  a 
^Mustroua  stone,  white -opaline,  or  of  an 
orange  vermilion.  Articles  of  iewellery  made 
with  this  stone  form  a  brancn  of  commerce 
between  Asia  and  Africa.*'  Evidently  one  of 
the  ^*Cambay  stones,^  that  used  not  many 
years  ago  to  be  sold  in  Bombay  in  the  form 
of  studs  and  sleeve-links,  is  meant. 

Donald  Febouson, 

Croydon. 

**Same  stream."  — Young,  in  bia  *  Night 
Thoughts'  (Night  VO,  writes,  **In  the  same 
brook  none  ever  bathed  him  twioa"*  The 
whole  passage  of  which  this  ia  the  character- 


9»8.vn.jTOK29.i90i.)      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


607 


intie  line  was  evidently  fn  the  tnind  of 
Cow  per— a  great  bather^  when  he  wrote, 
"  Shakapeare  says,  none  ever  bathed  himself 
twice  in  the  same  stream"  (* Letters/  1820, 
p,  384).  Bat  I  do  not  retnember  it  in  Shak- 
npeare.  John  Smith,  the  Cambridge  Platonist, 
in  hifl  'Select  Discourses,'  1673,  p.  79,  tracer 
the  saying  to  it^  source:  "It  was  a  famous 
speech  of  wise  Heraclitus,  ih  rhv  avrhv 
irorafthv  SU  ovk  av  t^f^atr}^,  a  man  eannot 
enter  twice  into  the  same  river."    W,  0.  B. 

"  Takmi.*"— The  Times  of  30  May,  describing 
the  RoyaJ  Military  Toumanient,  writes  :— 

"The  Indian  Con titig«nt...... marched  in  to  th« 

Tndmn  Air  *  Takmi.'  which  m&kea  such  an  excellent 
mafch,  and  whieht  if  we  are  not  miataken,  the 
North  £>tafford«hire  first  introdnoed  to  military 
music  at  the  cloie  of  the  Affthan  War  nf  lg7S-fiO." 

The  reference  ts,  I  believe,  to  the  Pathan 
air  'ZakAmi  Dil '  ("My  wounded  heart "). 

W.  Crookx. 
Langton  Hpuie,  Charlton  KingSL 

The  CouvAHE. — In  the  Hebrew  romanee  of 

*  Alexander '—a  very  curions  and  intereHting 
document,  translated  by  Dr*  M.  Oaster  in  the 
Joumni  of  the  Boyal  Asiatic  Society  (1898, 
N.S.,  vol.  xxix.  p.  537)— there  is  a  reference  to 
the  much-discussed  "couvade."  The  Mace- 
donian corner  to  a  land  called  Jobilab  or 
Havilah,  and  bears  of  the  custom  : — 

"  When  Alexander  heard  this  hfl  was  afltoniahed, 
and  sent  a  me*tsenger  to  the  Kini?  of  Jobilab^  aayjnjf : 
'Cbme,  let  ns  see  each  other.'  The  meJMienger  re- 
tnmeil  to  Alexander*  and  said  to  him  t  *  ThUM  Kays 
thy  servant  the  Kinj?  of  Jabilah  :  Behold,  I  am  to 
secinde  mvaelf  for  twenty-nine  days  more,  because 
my  wife  haa  horne  a  son*  and  I  may  not  go  out 
nntil  my  time  la  folfilled*  viz.,  four  months.  I  will 
then  come  to  thee,'  When  Alexander  heard  thij« 
he  waa  much  amn^d,  and  scofTed  at  the  kincr*  and 
paid  to  hia  servants  t  '  Prepare  yourselves  and  oome 
with  me  to  the  kioKwho  U  Ivinir  in  Tied.*  Alejr- 
ander  aceopdinRly  went  to  the  kinjr  and  found  him 
m  hed.  The  qneen  waited  npon  him,  and  served 
him  with  food  and  drink  and  all  kinds  of  daintier. 
Alexander  on  ieeJiT(?  the  kin^  lauehed,  and  aaid  : 
'  During  the  time  that  thou  best  in  bed,  who  reitma 
Instead  of  thee*  who  in d ires*  who  sfta  unon  the 
throne  instead  of  thee!*  "  My  chosen  do^  mts  upon 
my  throne  with  an  interpreter  at  his  aide*  and 
before  him    the  people   come    to  nhtain    jnirtice/ 

*  Bnt  18  it  right*' Haid  Alexander,  'for  a  doe  to  sit 
cm  the  throne  of  thy  kingdom  ?  *  *  This  la  the  ^lory 
of  th©  kingdom/  the  kinjr  replied,  "that  a  dnjr 
fthonld  ait  npon  the  throne  and  people  should 
obtain  fustice  from  him,*  *I  entreat  thee,*  aaid 
Alexander*  *to  show  me  the  dos^  which  rei^rnfl 
instead  of  thee.'  *I  am  not  allowed,*  answered  the 
kinjr,  '  to  eo  out  of  this  bed  until  the  four  months 
are  fulfilled^  and  were  t  to  go  out  before  the  tinie 
the  people  would  appoint  another  king  in  my  atead, 
and  thruat  me  from  the  kingdom/" 

This  romance  of  '  Alexander  *  is  one  of  many 
mter^ting  docmments  which  have  been  made 


available  for  the  general  reader  by  Dr.  Gas ter*s 
skill  and  erudition* 

William  E*  A*  Axon. 

Manchester, 

[See  7***  S,  viii.  442  ;  ix.  9,  54 ;  8*>^  K  iv.  122.] 

Music  Publibhbss'  SiaNS-  — John  Walsh, 
music  publisher,  was  advertised  as  at  the 
sis^D  of  the  *'Harp  and  Hoboy"  in  Catherine 
Btreet  long  after  Queen  Annes  time  (aeean*^ 
p.  285).  In  advertiaement-a  in  the  Craftsman 
of  20  September,  1729^  he  describes  himself 
as  "  servant  to  his  Majesty*"  and  in  the  same 
iournal  later  (30  June*  1733)  be  is  "Music 
Printer  and  Tnstrumi?nt  Maker  to  his 
Majesty  *'  King  George  II,  P.  Randall  was 
at  the  **Harp  and  Hoboy'*  in  Catherine 
Street  in  1709,  where  he  advertises  "Mr. 
Pepusch's  Airs  for  Two  Violins''  (Tatler, 
1  December,  1709).  Here  Walsh  sold  the 
productions  of  the  distinguished  composer 
and  violinist  Francesco  Geminiani,  amon^ 
which  was  "  Concerti  Grossi  jmv  Due  Viol  in  i, 
Viola,  e  Violoncello  di  Concertino  Obbligfati  e 
Due  Altri  Violini  e  Basso  di  Concerto  G rosso 

da    Francesco   Geminiani Opera    terza." 

The  sign  is  not  called  the  "  Golden  Harp  and 
Hoboy"  in  advertisements  of  the  time,  in 
which  gtiise  it  is  liable  to  be  confused  with 
the  sign  of  Ben.  Cooke  (query  father  of  Ben- 
jamin Cooke,  the  English  composer)  near  by 
in  New  Street,  Co  vent  Garden,  which  was 
the  "  Golden  Harp "  certainly  from  1733  to 
1742*  Joseph  Hare  was  a  contemporary  of 
Walsh  as  a  music  pubHsber,  at  the  "Viol 
and  Hoboy "  in  Cornbill  near  the  Royal 
Exchange/  Other  mu.sic  publishers*  signi 
were  the  "Viol  and  Flute."  the  ^^Basa  Viol," 
the  "Golden  Crotchet^'  (Novella's),  the 
"French  Horn,'*  the  *VHarp,"  the  "David 
and  Harp,"  the  "  Golden  Harp*"  John  John^ 
son  at  the  "  Harp  and  Crown,'*  Ben ia rain 
Cooke  at  the  **  Golden  Harp,"  and  John  WaUh 
at  the  "Harp  and  Hoboy  '*  appear  to  have 
been  the  three  leading  mid-eiRhteenth-cen- 
tury  music  publishers.  Lat'er  there  were  the 
"  Haydn's  Hear! ''  and  the  "  PurcelFs  Head  "  ; 
and  the  works  of  the  celebrated  composer 
Arne  were  publishefl  at  the  "  Golden  Bass  '^  in 
Middle  Row,  Holborn.  But  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  "Golden  Lyre,**  which  i«  no  doubt 
the  crest  of  the  Musicians*  Company,  the  old 
music  publishers*  signs  appear  to  be  quite 
extinct.  Further  interesting  statements  with 
regard  to  Walsh  s  house  in  Catherine  Street 
will  be  found  in  the  WeitmiuMter  GatttU  of 
17  February,  1900.  He  was  a  craftsman  of  the 
old  kind,  and  engraved  all  his  own  plates. 
Some  of  them  are  in  the  possession  of 
Messrs.  NoveUo  k  Co.,  who  took  over  the 


m 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     [9*8.viljuk«29.i9ol 


business  from  his  desoeodants.  Considering 
how  frequently,  as  alluded  to  above,  eminent 
musicians  themselves,  and  sometimes  their 
sons,  were  engaged  in  the  music  publishing 
trade,  perhaps  it  will  not  be  encroaching  on 
space  to  mention  that  there  was  a  John 
Simpson  at  the  *'Bass  Viol  and  Flute  in 
Swithin's  Alley,  opposite  the  East  Door  of 
the  Exchange,''  to  whom  relate  two  adver- 
tisements in  my  possession  describing  "  tunes,'' 
sonatas,  <fec.,  adapted  to  the  violin  and  **  Ger- 
man Flute  "  (see  Daily  Advertiser^  9  February 
and  22  May,  1742).  Possibly  this  publisher  was 
related  to  the  eminent  seventeenth-century 
musician  Christopher  Simpson,  who,  among 
other  able  treatises  on  musical  subjects,  wrote 
*  Chelys  Minuritionum,'  printed  m  columns. 
English  and  Latin,  1665,  folio,  and  dedicated 
to  his  scholar  and  patron  Sir  John  Bolles. 
This  contains  instructions  for  the  viol  de 
gamba,  an  instrument  popular  in  his  time 
('Biog.  Diet,  of  MusA 

J.    HOLDEN  MacMiCHAEL. 
WimbledoQ  Park  Road. 


Wb  moat  reauest  oorrespondents  desiriiijg  infor- 
mation on  family  matters  of  only  private  interest 
to  affix  their  names  and  addresses  to  their  queries, 
in  order  that  the  answers  may  be  addressed  to  them 
direot.  

'American  Husbandry.' —  Can  any  one 
inform  me  if  a  work  entitled  as  follows, 
a  copy  of  which  is  in  the  British  Museum 
Library  (numbered  43  c  20,  21),  is  by  Arthur 
Young  ]    If  not,  by  whom  was  it  written  ? — 

American  Husbandry,  containing  an  account  of 
the  soil,  climate,  production,  and  agriculture  of  the 
British  colonies  m  North-America  and  the  West- 
Indies,  with  observations  on  the  advantages  and  dis- 
advantages of  settling  in  them  compared  with  Great 
Britain  and  Ireland.  By  an  American,  in  two 
volumes.    London,  printed  for  J.  Bew,  1775,  8vo. 

A  reference  in  Sabin's  *  Dictionary  of  Books 
relating  to  America '  indicates  Arthur  Young 
as  the  author  of  this  work,  which,  though 
purporting  to  be  *'By  an  American,"  was 
very  evidently  written  by  an  Englishman. 
The  query  has  been  put  to  me  by  the  sub- 
librarian of  the  Cornell  University  Library, 
Ithaca,  New  York.    M.  Betham-Edwaeds. 

Portrait  of  Lady  Harley.— Can  any 
reader  of  '  N.  &  Q.'  kindly  tell  me  whether 
any  portrait  is  known  to  be  in  existence  of 
Bnlliana,  daughter  of  Edward,  Lord  Conway, 
and  wife  of  Sir  Robert  Harley?  She  was 
bom  in  1600,  defended  her  husband's  castle 
of  Brampton  Bryan  for  the  Parliament,  and 


died  in  1643.  I  should  be  greatly  obliged  to 
any  one  who  could  let  me  know  whether 
there  is  any  likeness  of  her,  and  if  so,  where 
it  is  to  be  found. 

(Miss)  Gabriellb  Fbsting. 
30,  Qaeen'B  Gate  Terrace,  8.  W. 

Sweeny  Todd.— Can  any  reader  refer  me 
to  the  date  of  the  existence  of  this  individual, 
and  also  to  the  best  report  of  his  trial  ?  He 
was  a  barber  residing  near  Fleet  Street  (I 
believe  in  the  last  century),  convicted  of  a 
series  of  peculiarly  atrocious  murders. 

M.  H.  T. 

[No  record  of  such  personage  or  crime  exists  in 
oriniinal  annals.  A  drama  called  *The  String  of 
Pearls;  or,  Sweeny  Todd,  the  Demon  Barber  of 
Fleet  Street,'  was  popular  at  the  £ast>£nd  theatres, 
and  was  played  so  recently  as  1878  at  the  Britannia 
Theatre,  Hoxton.  A  beUef  that  its  story  was  troe, 
and  that  the  criminal  was  executed  at  Tyburn,  long 
prevailed,  but  is  apparently  unfounded.  The  crime 
has  some  analogy  with  that  of  Sawney  Bean  in 
Scotland,  which  took  place  more  than  three  hun- 
dred years  ago.  A  similar  history  is  related  by  M. 
Lurine  in  *  Les  Rues  de  Paris'  as  having  occurred  in 
the  Rue  des  Marmouzets.  M.  Lurine  adds :  **  Le 
temps  n'efiGft9a  pas  le  souvenir  du  p&tissier  homicide 
qui  sort  encore  d'^pouvantail  aux  petits  enfants  de 
la  Rue  des  Marmouzets."  See  under  *An  Old 
Cockney  Legend,'  6'^  S.  x.  227,  297.] 

Pbtee  de  la  Poet,  Director  of  the 
South  Sea  Company.— I  am  anxious  for  in- 
formation as  to  Peter  de  la  Port,  director  of 
the  South  Sea  Company,  who,  when  tried 
and  convicted  with  his  fellow-directors  after 
its  failure  in  1721,  was,  after  a  division  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  allowed  10.000/.  out  of 
his  estate  of  17,700/.  In  later  life  he  appears 
to  have  purchased  from  a  Mr.  Latton  the 
estate  of  Burhill  in  Walton  parish,  Surrey, 
which  he  bequeathed  to  General  John  John- 
son, who  commanded  the  33rd  Regiment  at 
Dettingen,  and  died  as  their  colonel  in  1757. 
General  Johnson  is  said  to  have  been  the  son 
of  a  Turkey  merchant.  Is  there  any  trace  of 
the  Johnson  family  in  the  records  of  the 
Levant  Ck>mpany  and  of  the  English  factories 
in  the  Levant  ?  What  relation  was  the  general 
to  Mr.  Peter  de  la  Port^  or  to  the  Sir  Robert 
Johnson,  alderman  of  London,  who  sat  for 
the  Monmouth  Boroughs  in  several  Parlia- 
ments of  Elizabeth  and  James  I.,  and  who 
was  inquired  about  ante,  p.  413 1  Z. 

Stewart  Family.  —  On  2  April,  1801. 
Alexander  Stewart,  of  Gosport  or  neighbour- 
hood, died  while  attending;  a  parade  or  drill 
of  local  volunteers.  I  believe  the  Hampshire 
Telegraph  was  then  in  existence,  and  I  shall 
be  mucn  obliged  if  any  one  who  has  aooess  to 
a  file  of  that  paper  will  kindly  let  me  know 


••  8.  viL  jn«  29. 1801.J     NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


509 


if  ao  account  was  given  of  the  »bo\*e  incident. 
Mr.  Stewart  was  born  on  24  Becember,  1759, 
and  I  am  desirous  of  ascertaiuiog  .lome  par- 
ticulars of    hia    parentage.      He   was    twice 
V  married,  first  to  Mary  Bignall  in  July,  1781, 
and  secondly  to  Mary  Beves  in  September^ 
1790,  by  both  of  whom  he  had  several  children. 
Chables  Stewaet. 
32,  Gloaceater  Ro&d,  Stoka  Newingtoti,  N« 

AoTHOftB  OF  Books  Wantbd.— 

The  Travek  a.nd  Adventuree  of  WiUiam  Bing- 

field,  17^.    2  vols.  12ma 

A  Nftrrative  of  tKe  Life  and  AatoQiahifif^  Adven- 

tttrei  of  John  D&niel,  I75L     r2mo. 

Inquiry  as  lo  the  authorship  of  these  two 
books  was  made  at  2°^  S.  v,  108,  157,  but  to 
no  purpose.  To  the  particulars  there  given  I 
may  aad  that  the  former  contains  a  frontis- 
piece by  Boitard  and  the  latter  four  curioaa 
plates  by  the  same  artist,  a  second  edition  of 
thia  being  issued  in  1770  without  the  plate.*;. 
In  1848  Mr,  Charles  Clark  printed  at  his 
private  press  at  Great  Totham,  Esseit, 

*'  FlytuK  and  uo  F&ilure ;  or  A&ri&l  Transit 
akcoomplifthed  more  thaii  a  CeDtury  o^o:  beluK  a 
miotite  doficriptive  account  of  *a  moat  Eurprifling 
Engine/  extracted  fronj  *  The  Life,  &c.,  of  John 
DanieL" 

In  Lockhart's  *  Life  of  Scott '  (first  edition, 
vol.  ill.  p.  313)  we  read  :— 

*'On  the  By-le&f  of  the  firat  volume  [of  Biogfield'a 
'Travels  and  Adveotures'l  Scott  haa  writtoti  us 
foliowa :  '  i  read  tbia  scarce  little  '*  Voyage 
Imaginaire"  when  I  was  about  ten  feara  old,  and 
lone  aft^r  Bought  for  a  copy  without  being  able  to 
Bna  Hi  person  who  would  »o  much  as  ackoowledae 
having  heard  of  Wiilmm  Bingfield  or  his  Uog-biroi, 
until  the  indefatigable  kiadne^^a  of  my  friend  Mr. 
Terry,  of  the  Hay->l&rket,  n»&de  me  master  of  this 
copy.  1  am  therefore  induced  Ui  think  the  book  ia 
of  very  rare  occurrence,'  ^ 

C.  D, 

Blood  as  a  Pkophylactic— The  Duchess 
of  Choiseulj  when  writing  to  Madame  du 
Deffand  in  June,  1767,  speaks  of  a  Marquis 
Oinori,  a  man  of  eood  position  in  Tuscany, 
who  had  applied  nis  wealth  to  introducing 
many  social  improvements  into  his  countiy  : 

"  Hia  death  wais  a  public  oalatnity.  He  di(id  of 
apoplexy.  White  he  waa  still  breathing  a  charlatan 
thought  of  suggesting?  that  he  should  be  rubbed  with 
fauman  blood  ;  then all  his  servants  eagerly  con- 
tended for  the  honour  of  giving  him  their  blood, 
many  piercing  themselves  before  they  could  he  pre- 
vented, and  cauBiUK  it  to  flow  to  give  to  tFieir 
itiaater." — **  Correspond  a  nee  Comfil^te  de  Madame 
du  Deffand  avec  la  DuchesAe  de  Choiseuli  TAbb^ 
Bartb^lomy  et  M.  Craufurt,  pu  blithe  aveo  une 
introdnetion  par  M.  le  Marquie  de  Hainte^Aulaire," 
tom«  i.  p«  118. 

Is  blood  still  a  popular  cure  for  apoplexy 
in  Italy  t  MK 


BuaAKNA     HOPTON,    DEVOTIONAL    WrITBKj 

1627-1709.— W.  R,  WilliatDB,  in  his  recently 
issued  *  History  of  the  Great  Sessions  in 
Wales,  1542-1830,'  p.  100,  states  that  this 
Susanna  Hopton,  the  wife  of  Richard  Hop- 
ton,  the  Welsh  judge,  was  "daughter  of  Sir 
William  Harvey,  of  an  ancient  Staffordshire 
family.**  There  was,  however,  no  Sir  Wiiliam 
Harvey  belonging  to  a  family  of  that  county, 
nor  indeed  any  person  of  those  names,  to 
whom  the  statement  could  refer  I  shall  be 
glad  if  any  of  your  correspondenta  can  eluci- 
date her  parentage  from  authentic  sources, 
and  also  give  the  place  and  date  both  of  her 
baptism  and  marriage.  If  she  left  a  will,  to 
what  court  was  it  proved  ?  I  am  aware  of 
the  biographical  notice  relating  to  her  in 
the^D.N.B/  E.  C. 

"Grakd  TotrR."^Is  there  any  known  use 
of  this  terra  before  1692  ?  la  there  any  book 
dealing  specifically  with  the  "  Grand  Tour  "  t 
Of  course  I  know  of  many  references  to  the 
"Grand  Tour"  in  the  Gentleman^i  Magazine 
and  other  periodical  publications. 

GsoEOS  Whali. 

17,  Vaubrugh  Park,  Blaokheath,  S,E, 

Smoking  a  Cobbler.  —  Steele's  Spectator, 
No.  358L  has,  "After  which  they  have  gone 
in  a  bofiy  and  smoaked  a  cooler"  {sk}.  Vvhat 
does  this  mean  1  '*  Smoke  "  does  not  appear 
to  be  U2^  in  the  same  sense  as  *'  to  smoke" 
=find  out,  used  by  Shakespeare,  Addison, 
Goldsmith,  and  Scott,  as  pomted  out  lately 
in  B^^  S.  ill.  406;  iv.  355.  Then  why 
should  these  **very  merry  fellow^'*  as 
the^  are  called  a  few  lines  before^  cievote 
their  *' smoking"  attentions  to  a  cobbler 
rather  than  to  any  other 

rude  mechanicalg 
That  work  for  bre^  upon  '  the  London  *  stalls  T 

Is  cobbler  a  **  souter  "  herei,  or  has  it  a  cryptic 
meaning]  Jonathan  Bouchikb, 

[Does  not  *^araoke"  mean  ''smoke  out^"  as  we 
say  now— fumigate  the  oobbler^s  stall  ?J 

"Thr  Old  Curiosity  Shop.*'— When  did 
the  bouse  in  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields  first  bear 
this  title  ?  It  is  quite  certain  from  Charles 
Dickens's  words  that  it  cannot  possibly  be 

the  one  that  he  wrote  about : — 

"He  [Kitl  fiometiinei  took  them  to  the  street 
where  she  bad  lived,  but  new  improveraenta  had 
altered  it  so  much  it  was  not  the  same ;  the  old 
house  had  been  long  ago  pulled  down  and  a  fiu« 
broad  road  was  in  its  plaee.^^ 

Is  it  known  where  the  original  house  was 
situated  ?  Andrew  Oliver, 

[Mr.  Kitton'i  note  to  "  The  Old  Cariosity  Shop ' 
ID  the  *'  Boob^ter  Edition'^  (Methuea)  just  pub- 


610 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.      p*8.viLJuifE29.i«0L 


lished  givea  all  the  details  that  ar^  known  or  mr- 
mifted  coDcemitift  tha  eponymous  shop.  10,  Oreen 
Streot,  near  Leicseater  t^quare  •  24,  Fetter  Latie  ; 
nnd  14,  ForUmouth  ^Jtfeet,  Lmc<iln*a  Inn  Field s^ 
have  all  been  nientionsd.  Only  the  last  of  these 
LB  now  extent.  We  have  no  doobt  that  EHckens 
made  the  locality  purposeEy  obaeurej 

Lines  on  Queen  VicroRrA.  —  Amongst 
noEny  poetical  tributes  offered  to  the  late 
Queen  when  Princess  Victoria  during  her 
early  ymrn  was  one  by  Mrs.  Maclean,  better 
known  as  L.  E.  L.,  commencing  with  the 
lines  :— 

When  has  the  day  the  laveliest  of  iti  hours? 
It  IS  the  hour  when  morn  breaks  into  day. 

Can  any  one  quote  the  full  text  of  the  poem, 
or  Htate  where  it  is  to  be  found  t         A-  B. 

**  A  FOOT  OP  BEBF."-  The  Rev.  Peter  Walker, 
Nonconformist  minister,  of  Newton-in-Bow- 
land,  on  17  December,  17E5,  "met  with  John 
Wilson,  of  whom  I  be?tpoko  a  foot  of  his  cow 
in  meAt,  and  he  told  rae  he  would  kill  her 
to-morrow  night."  On  the  21  Ht  Walker 
**  went  to  John  Wilson,  and  bought  half  a 
loot  of  hin  beef,  at  lOjr."  (*  Diary,'  1866,  p.  25). 
Is  it  known  what  this  quantity  was?  The 
'E.D.D.*  throws  no  light  on  the  point. 

Q.  V. 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne.— Wa»  this  Arae- 
ncan  author  descended  from  a  Devonshire 
family  T  The  inquisition  post  mortem  of 
Thomaa  Battishill,  held  at  Hatherleigh  in 
1636,  states  that  he  held  a  messuage 
called  Bowme^,  in  Sampford  Courtenay,  of 
"Nathaniel  Hawthorne  gen.  ffirmario'  de 
Sampford  Courtenay."      E.  Leoa-Weekes. 

Scott  Query.— In  *  The  Fortunes  of  Nigel,' 
vol.  ii.  chap.  vii.  (edition  of  1822),  Aunt 
Judith,  addressing  Margaret  Ramsay,  says, 
"Here  you  come  on  the  viretot,  through 
the  whole  streets  of  Tjondon,  to  talk  some 
nonMensG  to  a  ladj%"  kc.  What  in  the  mean- 
ing of  the  pbra,se  "on  the  viretot''?  Mr. 
Lang  pasnej^  it  unnoticetJ  in  the  '*  Border  Edi- 
tion" of  Scott,  and  it  does  not  seem  to  be 
either  French  or  Scottish, 

R.   B.   Bos  WELL. 

[It  means  apparently  a  quick  turn.  Virer  \b  to 
lurn,  taok«] 

AUTflORS  OF  QUOTATIONH  W ANTED, — 
The  Kolden  R^iod,  the  torch,  the  Umg  procession, 
The  MasH  for  parted  sonla,  Ihy  sonff  of  ev&n. 
With  pardon  frank  for  many  a  dnrk  transiKresfiion, 
And  melodioB  that  dropped  liko  dew  from  heEiven. 

E.    H.   COOPEIR, 

Ood  only  kuowi,  nnd  none  hut  He, 
What  is,  what  ww,  and  what  will  be. 

JOHK  T.  ¥aQ^ 


DOWAGER  PEEREBS. 
(2^  S.  vii,  468.) 
The  custom  of  widows  of  peers  retaining 
their  titles  after  remarriage  with  commoners, 
or  with  peers  of  lower  degi-ee,  is  by  no  means  a 
recent  innovation.  As,  however,  a  lady  loies 
by  marriage  that  which  she  gaina  by  marriaga 
liuch  retention  of  title  is  not  a  matter  of 
right,  biitonl^'  of  courtesy :  and  at  the  coming 
Coronation,  if,  aa  no  doubt  will  be  the  case^ 
precedent  be  strictly  followed,  those  peeresses 
who  have  remarried  commoners  will  not 
receive  a  summons  thereto,  while  thoise  who 
have  remarried  peers  of  lower  deere©  than 
that  of  their  former  husbands  will  only  receive 
summons  in  the  lesser  title,  and  take  their 
precedence  in  accordance  therewith.  A  search 
through  'Debrett's  Peerage '  shows  that  over 
thirty  widows  of  peers  have  married  again, 
and  of  these  three  have  abandoned  the  nae 
of  their  former  husbands*  titles,  the  widow 
of  the  third  Earl  of  Dun  raven  since  her 
marriage  with  the  second  Lord  Hylton  being 
styled  Baroness  Hylton ;  and  Constance 
G lady's,  Countess  of  Lonsdale,  sine®  her 
marriage  with  the  eldest  eon  of  the  first 
Marquess  of  Ripon  being  known  as  Countess 
De  Grev  ;  whust  the  widow  of  the  fourth 
Lord  Mun caster  has  taken  since  ber  re- 
marriage the  name  of  Lady  Jane  Linds^r 
(thus,  although  now  married  to  a  commoner, 
obtaining  higher  precedence  than  as  the 
widow  of  a  peer).  In  the  case  of  baronets' 
widows  the  matter  is  somewhat  difiFerent^  as 
the  us©  of  the  title  by  right  and  not  of 
courtesy  depends  upon  tha  date  of  the 
husband's  patent  of  creation,  and  whether 
that  patent  contains— as  some  of  the  earlier 
ones  ao— a  clause  permitting  its  retention  by 
the  widow  on  remarriage  ;  failing  this,  the 
title  can  only  be  tised  by  courtesy?  and  not 
by  right,  and  there  are  several  instances 
where  it  has  been  discarded  altogether  after 
remarriage.  A  knight's  widow,  on  the  other 
hand,  after  remarriage  uses  the  title  by 
courtesy  only,  DtBBKiT. 


Sir  Christopher  Hatton^s  MoKtrmirT 
{?^^'  S.  iv.  309,  395;  9***  S.  vii,  410).— The 
following  points  seem  pertinent  to  Me.  Page's 
query  at  tne  last  reference  :^- 

L  In  *  Sepulchral  Monuments  in  Greet 
Britain,'  voL  ii.  part  i*  (l7fi6X  p*  cccxxif; 
Go  ugh  mentioned  the  figures  "  remaining  oc 
the  old  monuments,  in  tolerable  preserva- 
tion/'  which  he  saw  in  1783  in  St  Faith'k 
vaults  at  Bt  Paul's  Cathedral    He  did  not 


••  8.  vn.  June  29,19010      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


511 


mentian  any  figure  of  Sir  Christopher 
Eatton. 

2.  Dealing  with  these  figures  iti/ Lend iniuta 
Redmvvim,  vol  iii.  (1803X  P^  €1,  Malcolm 
wrote:— 

"  Another  I  b«Ueva  to  bo  the  roourabont  effigies 
of  Lord  Chaneollor  Hattcin,  in  artnour,  and  with 
the  irmgni^  of  the  Oder  of  ttte  Otttter," 
Was  this  belief  well  founded  1  Malcolm 
eic plained  m  a  foot-note  that  his  conjectures 
about  the  figures  were  formed  before  seeing 
Gough's  observations  {/oc.  cit),  "Far  be  it 
from  me*'*  he  added,  **to  adhere  pertinaciously 
to  my  own  opinion.  The  general  resemblance 
of  emiries  to  each  other  ia  well  known." 

3.  In  Charles  Knight's  *  London/  vol,  iv. 
(1843),  p.  347,  where  the  figures,  or  some  of 
them,  were  again  described,  it  was  stated 
that 

"one  st&tud  of  goodly  aspect,  and  in  complete 
atmoar,  has  lout  his  legs:  iitran£e  eBf:itigh  to  say, 
that  ii  suppoied  to  be  Elizabeih'i  dancing  hovi 
Ch*Dcellor.* 

Was  thia  supposition  correct  1  Is  it  possible 
that  the  statue  referred  to  was  that  which 
Gough  (toe,  cit)  described  as  "Sir  Thomas 
Heneage  to  the  knee,'*  and  was  that  descrip- 
tion accurate  1  Am  I  right  in  thinking  that 
Hatton  was  a  Knight  of  the  Garter,  but 
Heneage  not?*  H.  C. 

Flowbe  Game  (9^  S,  vii,  329,  397,  474).^ 
I  have  been  a  reader  of  *R  &  Q/  for  twenty 
year&  but  have  refrained  until  the  la'it  few 
months  from  offering  it  contributions,  because 
I  have  been  painful ly  struck  with  the  aggres- 
sive ton©  with  which  some  enter  discua-^ions 
in  its  pages.  A  contributor  does  not  know  how 
soon  he  may  have  to  defend  himself  from  an 
onslaught,  made  in  perfectly  good  faith,  but 
written  in  language  which  not  one  of  your  con- 
tributors would  dream  of  using  verbally  to 
another.  I  sent  you  a  few  lines  about  dan- 
delion chains,  venturing  to  write  that  they 
are  "  apparently  unknown  around  Northamp- 
ton." I  wrote  that  becauie  I  believed  it.  I 
have  been  colleeting  instances  of  children's 

fames,  local  customs^  and  folk-lore  around 
Torthampton  for  the  last  fifteen  years,  I 
have  inquired  about  dandelions  ecoresi,  hun- 
dreds, of  times— half  a  do^^n  times  at  least 
in  every  parish  bordering  on  Northampton^ 
of  old  people  and  children,  and  I  never  once 
came  across  a  single  instance  of  dandelion 
chains.  Instead  I  find  there  i»  a  sincere 
horror  among  children  of  touching  dande- 
lions, for  fear  of  very  undesirable  conse- 
quences at  nighL_  Haying  crystallized  the 
result  of  all  this  investigation  into  the  few 

['Yea,] 


words  above  quoted,  carefully  guarded  by 
the  word  **  apparently,"  because  I  know  how 
difficult  it  is  to  be  sure  of  a  negative^  I  am 
attacked  by  a  "surprised  "  Northamptonshire 
gentleman,  who  not  only  says  that  my 
statement  is  **  tinaccoantable^  but  that  I 
"hazarded"  it.  And  why  does  he  say  that? 
Simply  because  he  has  seen  children  making 
dandelion  chains  (he  does  not  say  sOj  but  I 
conclude  that  is  what  he  means)  at  West 
Haddon.  West  Haddon  is  nine  or  ten  miles 
from  Northampton,  and  I  submit  that  my 
phrase  "around  Northampton"  would  not 
generally  be  understood  in  this  connexion 
as  including  an  area  of  at  least  300  square 
miles.  Even  if  it  were  so  understood,  this 
sort  of  controversy  is  not  encouragement  to 
the  mildly  disposed  to  write  in  your  columns* 

K. 

"  AXL  BO  ADS  LEAD  TO  ROME  "  (9**"  S*  vii.  427). 

— To  demand  the  source  of  a  proiferiy  is  to 

demand  the  impossible,  even  of  omniscience. 
Some  proverbs,  it  is  true,  derive  a  certain 
cachet  from  their  being  cited  in  certain  great 
clasHLcsj  but  they  are  no  more  the  creation 
of  the  citer  than  the  preacher  is  the  author 
of  the  text  that  he  prefixes  to  his  discourse* 
"All  roads,"  i^c,  has  its  equivalent  in  all 
European  languages,  and  La  Fontaine  quotes 
it  in  the  form  of  Tous  cheniins  vmit  a  Borne  m 
his  *Juge  Arbitre,  T Hospitaller  et  le  Soli- 
taire' {* Fables,*  12,  28,  4),  The  point  of  the 
proverb,  which  is  generally  misunderstood,  is 
to  the  effect  that  so  long  as  the  object  is 
attained,  the  means  thereto  are  immaterial. 

Philip  North, 

Every  one  soon  or  late  comes  round  by  Roma 
K.  Browning,  *Th6  Ring  and  the  Book,' 

Book  V.  L  2S8. 

Constance  Russell. 
t^wallowfieid. 

Tea  as  a  Meal  (8^  S.  ix.  387  ;  x.  244).— 
An  earlier  suggestion  of  the  use  of  the  word 
tea  as  descriptive  of  a  meal  than  its  employ- 
ment in  'The  Vicar  of  Wakefield  *  (1766)  is  to 
be  found  in  *  Moll  Flanders,'  published  in 
!7i2  (though  solemnl^^  declared  by  Defoe  to 
have  been  "  written  m  the  year  1683  "),  the 
heroine  severely  blaming  a  female  friend  for 
spreading  a  story  '*  when  she  had  not  the 
least  ground  more  than  a  little  tea- Cable 
chat"  Congreve,  moreover,  in  1700  had 
employed  a  similar  phrase,  Mirabell,  in 
*  The  Way  of  the  World  *  {IV.  i,),  defining 
^'genuine  and  authorised  tea-table  talk"  as 
^'menrling  of  fashions,  spoiling  reputations, 
railing  at  absent  frienas,  and  so  forth,"'  Mrs, 
Miliamant(in  the  same  scene  declaring  her 
intention  to  be  "sole  empress  of  my  tea- 


512 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     p^s-vn.  juifE29,i»L 


table."  This  would  indicate  a  separate  meal, 
though  it  might  cover  only  what  the  same 
author  had  six  years  previously  described  in 
^The  Double  Dealer'  (L  i.X  when  the  ladies 
were  described  by  Mellefont  as  **  at  the  end 
of  the  gallery,  retired  to  their  tea  and 
scandal,  according  to  their  ancient  custom 
after  dinner."  Alfred  F.  Robbins. 

Richard  Estcott  de  Lanceston  (9"»  S.  vii. 
444).— I  am  able  to  add  to  Mr.  RobBiNs's 
interesting  article  only  that  Richard  Estcott 
was  returned  M.P.  for  Launceston  to  three 
successive  Parliaments,  1625, 1626,  and  1627-8. 
and  that  he  was  buried  at  the  church  ot 
St.  Mary  Magdalene  25  July,  1635. 

W.  D.  Pink. 

Painted  and  Enorayed  Portraits  (9"*  S. 
viL  341,  438,  470).— Your  correspondent  Mr. 
Ralph  Thomas  says, ''  Mr.  Mason  makes  no 
reference  to  the  enormous  collection  of  por- 
traits at  the  Bodleian  in  the  Hope  Collec- 
tion.'' If  he  will  kindly  re-read  my  note,  he 
will  see  that  I  specially  mentioned  it  thus : 
"Hope  Collection,  Oxford  (has  this  a  cata- 
logue yet  ])."  C.  Mason. 

&,  Emperor's  Gate,  S.W. 

Jowett's  Little  Garden  (9^**  S.  viL  405).— 
The  correct  text  of  the  epigram  quoted  by 
your  correspondent  is  as  follows : — 
A  little  garden  little  Jowett  made, 
And  fenced  it  with  a  little  palisade ; 
If  ^ou  would  know  the  mind  of  little  Jowett 
This  little  garden  don't  a  little  show  it. 

This  caustic  epigram  certainly  never  was 
written  upon,  and  never  could  have  been 
applied  to,  the  late  Master  of  Balliol  College, 
one  of  the  most  distinguished  men  in  Oxford, 
but  was  written  in  1793  on  Dr.  Joseph  Jowett, 
Fellow  and  Tutor  of  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge, 
by  Francis  Wrangham,  afterwards  Arch- 
deacon of  the  East  Riding  of  Yorkshire. 
Gunning  in  his  *  Reminiscences  of  Cambridge ' 
(vol.  u.  pp.  29,  30)  has  the  following  account 
of  its  origin : — 

*' There  is  a  large  re-entering  an^le  on  the  south 
side  of  the  principal  front  of  Trinity  Hall,  which 
had  long  been  the  receptacle  of  street  sweepings 
and  other  nuisances.  To  prevent  these  unsightly 
accumulations,  Dr.  Jowett  ordered  the  an^le  to  be 
fenced  off  by  a  wooden  paling,  within  which  were 
planted  (as  may  be  seen  to  this  day)  [i.e.,  1855]  a 
number  of  garden  flowers.  The  formation  of  this 
little  triangular  garden  was  immediately  commemo- 
rated by  Wrangham  in  an  epigram,  of  which  the 
following  is  a  copy  [quoted  by  me  above].  We  can 
easily  understand  why  a  quiet  and  timid  person 
like  Dr.  Jowett  (especially  during  the  political 
terror  and  excitement  of  1793)  should  have  been 
very  reluctant  to  admit  a  staunch  and  lively  Whig 
like  Wrangham  to  a  Fellowship  and  Tutorship  in 
his  small  college." 


Archdeacon  Wrangham,  who  was  a  clever 
and  accomplished  scholar,  died  in  1842.  Syd- 
ney Smith  gave  him  the  title  of  ^  Ornament 
WranKham?  John  Reckford,  M.A. 

Newboume  Rectory,  Woodbridge. 

[Stories  go  from  Oxford  to  Cambridge,  told  one 
year  of  one  man,  the  next  of  another.  The  late 
Master  of  Balliol  has  thuB  gathered  several  good 
things,  non  tuapoma.] 

On  the  "Jowett"  epigram  see  'D.N.R,' 
XXX.  215,  where  it  is  attributed  to  Wrang- 
ham ;  and  Prof.  Pryme*s  *  Autobiography,' 
pp.  246-8.  The  order  of  the  lines  is  wrong 
in*D.N.B.*  W.  C.  R 

"  Snicket"  (9^  S.  vii.  348). —I  have  known 
this  word  from  boyhood— sixty  years.  It 
was  generally  understood  to  mean  a  narrow 
passage  more  particularly,  though  short  cui  in 
certain  cases  may  have  been  implied.  It  was 
near  Bradford  in  the  West  Riding  where  I 
always  heard  it. 

On  seeing  the  query  at  the  above  reference 
I  immediately  consulted  J.  C.  Robinson's 
'Dialect  of  Leeds,'  1862,  and  was  much 
surprised  not  to  find  it.  I  then  tried  several 
E.D.S.  publications,  but  without  success.  I 
had  better  fortune  with  Morris's  *  Yorkshire 
Folk-Talk,'  s.v.  "  Snig  cut,  n.  F.  A  short  cut 
The  primary  meaning  of  this  expression  is  a 
secret  way.  that  by  which  one  can  get  away 
unobservea  ;  hence,  a  short  cut  generally." 

"Snig  cut"  is,  apparently— in  meaning,  at 
all  events— very  nearly  allied  to  **8nicket.'* 

F.  W.  J. 

Canadian  Boat  Song  (6**»  S.  xiL  310, 378  j 
9"»  S.  vii.  368).— Since  I  sent  the  query  anft, 
p.  368,  my  attention  has  been  called  to 

1.  The  appearance  of  the  earlier  form  of 
the  song  in  Blackwood  for  September,  18^ 
p.  400,  twenty  years  before  it  was  printed  in 
Tait,  It  is  introduced  into  No.  46  of  the 
*Noctes  Ambrosianse'  as  a  translation  of  a 
Gaelic  oar-song  received  by  North  in  a  letter 
from  a  friend  now  in  Upper  Canada.  This, 
however,  does  not  in  any  way  affect  the 
attribution  of  the  translation  to  the  twelfth 
Earl  of  Eglinton.    The  assertion  in  Taii  \m 

very  explicit:  ''  The  late  Earl  of  Eglinton 

left  the  following  translation among  hii 

papers,  set  to  music  by  his  own  hand.' 
The  earl,  who  died  in  1819,  had  entered  the 
army  in  1755,  and  served  for  several  years  in 
Canada. 

2.  The  introduction  by  Sir  John  Skelton 
of  the  altered  ("  Heart  is  true,"  4rc.)  verskm 
in  an  article  in  Blackwood  for  June,  1880, 
p.  747. 

**lt  was  a  80Dg,**  he  says,  "in  Gaelic,  set  tot 
Gaelic  air The  chief  gave  me  the  words  after 


B-B.VIL  Juki  »,  1901.]       NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


513 


warda,  and  I  Tenture  to  traDslate  them  for  the  sake 
of  the  illiterate  lowlander.  [Then  follows  the  hash 
of  Bglinton's  rendering.]  This  is  pretty,  and  should 
be  sung,  let  me  sav,  to  the  air  of  *  My  faithful  fond 
one*  (* Mo  run  geal  dileas ')." 

Without  calling  in  question  Skelton's  ri^ht 
to  pronounce  on  the  prettiness  of  lines  which 
he  claims  as  his  own,  I  may  point  out  that 
the  music  of  *Mo  run'  cannot  possibly  be 
twisted  to  fit  bis  version.  Further,  the 
** shieling"  stanza  in  its  altered  form  had 
appeared  over  and  over  again  before  1889. 
Thus,  in  1885,  Mr.  Chamberlain  quoted  it 
with  great  effect  in  his  Inverness  speech ;  in 
1883  it  occurs  in  R.  L.  Stevenson's  '  Silverado 
Squatters';  and  in  1881  in  Dr.  Cameron 
Lees's  'Stronbuy.'  Dr.  Donald  Macleod, 
Glasgow,  tells  me  that  his  brother,  Dr.  Nor- 
man Macleod,  quoted  the  stanza  at  a  public 
meeting  in  1845.  That  was  four  years  before 
it  was  reprinted  in  Tait^  and  hence  it  was 
then  presumably  quoted  in  its  original  form. 

I  wish  to  discover  (a)  the  original  Gaelic 
words,    (6)    the    musical    setting    by    Lord 
Eglinton,  (c)  the  name  of  the  person  (if  not 
Skelton)  that  spoilt  the  ''  shieling  "  stanza. 
P.  J.  Anderson. 

University  Library,  Aberdeen. 

This  song— or  at  least  part  of  it — appeared 
in  Blackwoods  Magazine  for  September,  1829, 
but  I  have  not  the  magazine  at  band  to  refer 
to^  and  cannot  recollect  if  the  sons  is  given 
there  as  a  translation  or  not.         M.  N.  G. 

Rawlins-Whitb  (9^  S.  vii.  428).— Rawlins 
Wbit&  a  Cardiff  fisherman,  is  said  to  have 
been  oumt  at  that  town  for  heresy  in  the 
reign  of  Queen  Mary.  The  local  records 
contain  no  allusion  to  the  event,  which, 
though  quite  possible,  rests  solely  on  the 
notoriously  untrustworthy  evidence  of  Foxe's 
•  Martyrology.' 

John  Hobson  Matthews. 

Town  Hall  CardiE 

Unmarbied  Lord  Mayors  (9"»  S.  vii.  428). 
—  Mr.  Cokayne's  statement,  as  given  by  E.  C. 
at  the  above  reference,  is  correct.  Harl.  MS. 
(Brit.  Mus.)  1049,  in  referring  to  Sir  John 
Leman,  Lord  Mayor  of  London  1616-17. 
informs  us  that  ''this  Maior  was  the  2^ 
batchelor."  The  first  was  John  Matthew, 
Mercer,  Mayor  1490-1,  of  whom  Stow  states, 
''He  lived  and  died  a  bachelor,  and  never 
was  bachelor  Mayor  before."     W.  I.  R.  V. 

DuTTON  AND  Seaman  Famiues  (9^*^  S.  vii. 
408).— Mr.  Fynmore  may  be  glad  to  hear  of 
an  earlier  Button  Seaman,  viz.,  "  Dutton,  son 
of  Thomas  Seaman,  aturny  in  Bowe  lane," 
christened  at  St.  Mary  Aldermary,  London, 


25  November,  1627.  His  mother  was  perhaps 
''  Jenne  Downes,"  who  was  married  there  in 
1623  to  John  Disney  and  in  1625  to  Thomas 
Seaman.  (See  Harl.  Soc.  PubL,  Registers, 
vol.  V.  pp.  15,  79.  80.)  This  Dutton  Seaman 
was  probably  iaentical  with  (1)  ''Dutton 
Seaman,  son  of  Thomas  S.,  of  London,  gent," 
admitted  at  Qray's  Inn  on  2  February,  1651/2, 
and  with  (2)  Dutton  Seaman,  "of  St.  Mildred's, 
Poultry,  gent.,  bachr.,  abt.  36,"  who  in  1663 
married  Mary  Sea,  of  St.  Bennet  Sherehog. 
London.  She  apparently  survived  him,  ana 
was  remarried  in  1667  to  Thomas  Hall,  of  the 
Middle  Temple.  (See  Harl.  Soc.  PubL,  vol. 
xxiii.  pp.  99,  140.)  H.  C. 

John  Stow's  Portrait,  1603  (9^  S.  vii. 
401).— While  congratulating  Mr.  Hendriks 
on  his  good  fortune  in  possessing  a  copy  of 
this  rare  print,  I  should  be  g]ad  to  know  if 
he  is  aware  of  the  authority  on  which  Dr. 
Dalton  based  his  statement  that  an  edition 
of  Stow's  '  Chronicle '  was  published  in  small 
quarto  in  1603.  I  cannot  find  any  mention 
of  this  edition  in  Lowndes,  Hazlittw  or  any 
other  bibliography  that  I  possess.  May  not 
Dr.  Dalton  by  a  slip  of  the  pen  have  contused 
the  '  Chronicle '  with  the  '  Survey '  ]  In  that 
case,  Mr.  Lee  may  possibly  be  right  in  saying 
that  the  engraving  was  prepared  for  the 
'  Survey,'  1603.  It  may  not  have  been  ready 
when  the  book  issued  from  the  press,  and 
this  would  account  for  one  of  the  known 
copies  having  been  pasted  on  the  back  of 
the  title  of  a  copy  of  the  '  Survey,*  and  the 
other  on  the  fly-leaf  of  another  copy  of  the 
same  work.  An  edition  of  Stow's  'Annals' 
was  published  in  1605,  and  one  of  '  The  Sum- 
mary of  English  Chronicles'  in  1604,  but 
none  of  either  work  apparently  in  1603. 

W.  F.  Prideaux. 

Old  London  Taverns  (9^*»  S.  vii.  69,  164, 
236,  354,  432).— I  have  in  my  possession  two 
copies  (identical)  of  the  small  pamphlet  "  pre- 
sented by  the  D.D.  Cellars,  49,  Bishopsgate 
Street  Without,  London,  E.C."  Neither  of 
them  bears  any  date,  but  both  are  probably 
about  twenty  years  old.  I  presume  these  are 
copies  of  the  document  to  which  Mr.  Andrew 
Oliver  refers.  If  so,  I  am  at  a  loss  to  find 
therein  any  allusion  to  "lines  by  Charles 
Dickens,"  or  reference  "  to  one  of  the  early 
volumes  of  Chanibers's  Journal"  The  pam- 
phlet contains  five  pages  of  prose.  '  The  His- 
tory of  Dirty  Dick  :  a  Legend  of  Bishopsgate 
Without,'  and  three  pages  of  poetry,  "The 
Dirty  Old  Man  (Dirty  Dick) :  a  Legend  of 
Bishopsgate.  From  Ilousehold  Woras  (con- 
ductea  by  Charles  Dickens)."  I  notice  that 
nowhere  in  the  letterpress  is  the  exact  locality 


514 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     (»*8.vil  June  29.1901. 


of  the  house  indicated,  althotagh  it  may  be 
inferred  that  its  site  was  the  same  as  the 
D.D*  Cellars.  The  tavern  is  undoubtedly 
named  after  Nathaniel  Bentley,  who  it  is 
assumed  resided  there,  and  "about  iieventy 
years  ago  was "  (accordiug  to  the  pamphlet) 
''one  of  thebest-knowD  characters  in  the  City 
of  London/'  John  T,  Page. 

West  Maddofi,  NorthainptOB«bire, 

Ekglish  Hexameters  ani>  ELEoiACa  f9^^ 
S.  vii,  321).— The  contemptuous  way  in  which 
authorities  sueh  as  Bentley  and  poets  such  as 
Tennyson  have  treated  the  question  of  English 
hexameters  and  elegiacs  has  always  astonished 
me.  Elegiacs  are  raucli  more  difficult  to  write 
in  English  than  hexameters,  the  pentameter 
line  seldom  avoiding  a  sin^-song  effect.  I 
have  sometimes  thought  this  could  be  best 
escaped  by  inserting  an  extra  syllable  after 
the  ciesura  in  the  middle  of  the  verse.  But, 
as  a  matter  of  fact,  elegiacs  after  the  classical 
model  are  not  required  in  our  langua(?e.  The 
couplet  of  Pope  exactly  reproduces  the  effect 
of  the  O vidian  couplet  With  hexameters  it 
is  different ;  they  are  required,  and,  so  far 
from  being  an  artificial  product  in  En^lishj 
they  are  natural  to  it.  Is  any  casual  reader 
aware  of  the  number  of  hexameters  there  are 
in  the  Bible  alone  ?  The  book  of  Job  contains 
more  than  a  dozen.  Here  are  some  : — 
Bmall  aod  great  are  there,  Aud  the  servant  is  free 

from  hie  master 
LcKMoth  the  bond  of  kin^,  and  bindeth  their  loins 

with  &  girdle. 
Breftstfi   are    full    of    milk,   and    his    bones    &re 

moiBiened  with  marrow. 

Canst  thou 
With  Him  spread  out  the  sky,  which  is  strong  as 

a  molten  mirror? 

The  book  of    Psalms   contains   even    more 

examples  than  Job  : — 

But  ye  Ethall  die  Hke  men,  and  fall  like  one  of  the 

printes. 
At  Thy  rebuke,  O  Lord,  at  the  blast  of  the  breath 

of  Thy  nostrile. 

Another  series  may  be  found  in  Proverbs  and 
Ecclesiastes.  In  the  passage  about  the  ant 
there  are  two  hexameter  lines  in  close 
proximity,  separated  only  by  a  dactylic  line 
of  four  and  a  half  feet.  Then  take  these 
scattered  examples  :— 

Miachief  shall  be  upon  mi^hlaf,  and  rumour  shall 

be  UfKiu  rumour. 
He  shall  come  up  as  a  cloud,  and  his  c^harjot  shall 

be  a^  a  whidwiud. 
We  did  esteem  him  Htritken,  smitten  of  Uod,  and 

afHicted' 
He  whom  thou  blesaeai  ia  blessed,  and  he  whom 

thou  euraest  ia  cursed. 
Art  thou  Ha  that  should  comcj  or  do  we  look  for 

another  ? 


In  Jeremiah  iv,  23  are  two  heicametere  run- 
ning, and  also  in  Isaiah  xtt,  IS  ;   and  who 
can    fail   to   feel   the  exquisite   cadence  of 
John  XX.  131— 
Woman,  why  weepeat  thou?    8he  saith  uuto  Uwai, 

Because  they  have 
Taken  away  my  Lord,  and  I  know  not  where  thej 

h»ve  laid  Him. 

The  above  will  be  sufficient  to  prove  my 
main  contention.  Those  who  wish  to  puraue 
the  subject  will,  of  course,  read  Matthew 
Arnold's  lectures  on  Homer ;  and  they  may 
find  other  information  in  the  Edinburgh 
^emeufioT  July,  1821  ;  the  Atlantic  Monthly 
ioT  July  and  October,  1890;  the  Aikmumm 
for  13  June,  1886  ;  and  in  a  pamphlet  by  the 
late  C.  B.  Cayley  on  English  hexameters, 
privately  printed  \  and  there  are  attempt!  at 
English  hexameters  to  be  found  in  Colendge^i 
'Mahomet,' Sou  t  bey's  'Vision  of  Judgment^' 
and  in  Hookham  Frere, 

Reginald  HAL'VEa. 

Uppingham. 

Bottled  Ale:  its  Invention  {^^  S.  m 
287,  412).— Very  nearly  the  same  story  which 
ia  told  of  the  invention  of  bottled  beer  ii 
attributed  to  one  of  the  early  bishops  of 
Bamberg,  in  Bavaria.  The  bij*hop  while  fist- 
ing was  surprised  by  an  enemy,  and  fled, 
leaving  behind  htm  a  bottle  of  new  beer.  A 
year  after,  on  revisiting  the  spot,  he  found 
his  ale,  to  his  great  astonishment^  much  im- 
proved. Both  legends  are  very  unlikely. 
Chables  Godfbe¥^  Lelanik 

The  story  from  Fuller  was  given  twmt^ 
years  earlier  in  'Who  invented  Bottled  BeerT 
^Oncea  Wtek,  7  Aug.,  1869,  Third  Series,  NaH 
vol.  iv.  pp.  20-1.  Nos.  Sl-3,  vol.  iv.  of  that 
journal  are  paged  1-66,  and  not  indexed,  the 
continuous  pacing  and  indexing  commendiig 
only  with  No.  84.  Thomas  J,  Js^Km 

GeorcpE  Wallace  (9***  S.  vii.  40BX~'Geoife 
Wallace  was  a  son  of  the  Rev.  Dr-  Bob^ 
Wallace,  minister  of  the  New  Korth  Biriab 
of  Edinburgh,  Moderator  of  the  GeftenI 
Assembly  of  1743,  Dean  of  the  Chapel  HeM 
and  a  prominent  ecclesiastic  in  his  day.  I)r. 
Wallace  died  in  177 1^  aged  seven ty-fiva  Ha 
was  a  son  of  the  Rev.  Matthew  Wallacei  who 
in  1695  was  ordained  minister  of  Kincardine 
in  Menteith,  and  died  in  1727,  aged  fifty -fi^ft 
George  was  called  to  the  ScottL^h  Bar  io  HH 
and  was  the  author  of  ^The  Origin  of  Feadil 
Tenures.'  His  mother  was  Helen,  daaghtef 
of  the  Rev.  George  Tumbull^  of  Tyninghwn- 
He  had  a  brother  Afatthew,  LL.D.,  viotf 
of  Tenterden,  in  Keni;^  who  died  in  1771,  ao^ 
a  sister  named  Elizabeth.  Georgie^  «  well  m 
his  bmtlier  and  sister,  died  uniD&rried.   Ee 


11 


9^  8.  VIL  June  29. 1901.]        NOTES  AND   QUERIES. 


515 


wrote  a  meiDair  of  his  father,  in  which  he  aaid 
that  he  was  **a  daseetidant  from  the  same 
ancient  family  of  Wallace  of  Riccartoun,  in 
Ayrshire,  that  has  been  rendered  illustrious 
by^  the  achievements  and  the  gallantry  of  Sir 
William  Wallace,  the  patriotic  and  renowned 
hero  of  vScotland/^  He  i&  not  the  only  one 
who  has  made  a  like  claim.  But  he  may  be 
right  for  all  that  J,  L.  Anderson, 

Edinbntgh. 

JluNiciPAL  Coincidences  (9'^  S.  v,  a,  176; 
vii.  409).— HaH  Mr.  HuouEg  overlooked  or 
forgotten  that  he  raided  the  last  part  of  his 
question  uader  another  h^^ing  on  p,  8  of 
vol.  v.,  and  that  Me.  Hem>^  and  I  supplied  hira 
with  a  couple  of  examples  of  town  clerka 
whose  fathers  had  been  mayors?  If  not,  why 
omit  the  references  1  Permit  rae  (in  the 
interest  of  all  who  like  myself  rely  upon  the 
index  volumes  of  *N,  <kQ/)  to  enter  a  mild 
protest  against  omitting  references,  and 
changing  or  selecting  unsuitable  headings. 
It  is  annoying  to  miss  the  very  thing  one  is 
seeking  through  inattention  in  these  respects. 
May  laiipgest  that  neither  of  Me,  Hughes's 
beaoings  is  calculated  to  facilitate  research  ] 
No.  %  '  Municipal  Coincidences/  is  the  better 
of  the  two,  but  No.  1,  *  Brothers  Mayor  and 
Town  Clerk  at  same  Time/  is  useless,  for 
nobody  would  think  of  looking  under  "B" 
for  incidents  relating  to  mayors  and  town 
clerks.  One  wonders  why  t'nose  last  four 
words,  '  Mayors  and  Town  Clerks/  were  not 
adopted  aa  the  heading  of  both  letters. 

HiCHAKD   WSLFORD. 

John  William  Pye-Snaith  became  Mayor 
of  Sheffield  in  November,  1885,  and  wa*i  aJso 
an  alderman.  In  1887  he  was  elected  Town 
Clerk,  and  held  office  till  his  death  on 
S  September,  1895.  His  father,  also  named 
John  William  Pye-8mith,  in  1S56  was  Mayor 
of  Sheffield,  and  was  alderman.  Herbert 
Bramley  resigned  his  position  as  alderman 
in  the  iSheftield  Town  Council,  and  was 
elected  Town  Clerk  on  9  October,  im^,  and 
held  office  till  bis  death  on  13  September, 
1897.  His  father,  Edward  Bramley,  in  1843 
was  Sheffield's  first  Town  Clerk,  resigned 
in  1859,  and  died  in  1865.  H.  J.  B, 

Author  of  Verbes  Wanted  (9^^  S.  vii. 
228,  315,  358,  374).— The  verses  given  under 
T  appear  in  Sylvester's  *  On  Bartas '  {Fifth 
Day),  thus  :— 

The  y tell f  Lark,  climbinB  the  Welkin  deer, 
Chauntii  with  a  cheer,  Hccr  peer— I  neer  my  Deer; 
Then  stoop tn^  thence  (^eemiog  her  fall  to  rew) 
Adieu  (flh©  aaith).  exdieu^  dtet  D^tr,  mlku. 

Thoee  under  B  I  cannot  find  in  Sylvester; 


hut  they  may  be  there  nevertheless  for  If 
the  best-read  of  the  poeta  of  his  day  he  m 
surely  also  the  hardest  to  read.  The  epitaph 
an  Queen  Elizabeth  is  also  claimed  for 
Sylvester  in  his  '  Posthumi,*  where  it  m 
printed  thus  :— 

Spainee  Rod,  Romea  Ruin©,  Hciherliinds  Relief a^ 
Heftv'n*  gem,  earth*  joy,  worldi  wonder,  natures 

ohiefe. 
By  the  way,  is  it  known  who  collected  these 
^Retnaines*  of   Sylvester?    They    comprise 
several  pieces  not  usually  credited  to  nim, 
e.j?,,  the  lines 

Goe  Soule,  the  bodies  guest 
(twenty  atauaas),  and  two  sonnets  elsewhere 
attributed  to  Campion,  in  whose  versions^ 
however,  the  poemf*  have  but  twelve  lines 
apiece.  One  of  these  I  venture  to  transcribe, 
as  it  differs  materially  from  the  version  in 
Campion's  book,  and  seems  to  me  much 
finer  i — 

Thou  art  not  faire  for  alt  thy  red  and  white, 
For  all  those  roeie  temirtAtures  m  thee ; 
Thou  art  not  sweet  though  made  of  meer  delight , 
Nor  faire^  nor  sweety  unlease  thou  pity  mee : 
Thine  eyes    are    black,    and   yet    their    gliatring 

bnghtnesse 
Can  night  illumine  in  her  darkest  denne  % 
Thy  hands  ate  bloody,  yet  uonipact  of  white noase, 
Both  black  and  bloody,  if  they  niurther  men  ; 
Thy  brow  whereon  my  fortune  doth  depend, 
Fairer  than  sufiw,  or  the  most  Ully  thio^, 
Thy  tongue  which  saveH  at  every  Rweet  words  endj 
That  hard  as  nmrble,  This  a  rn  or  tall  sting, 

I  will  not  Booth  thv  follies:  thou  ahalt  prove 
That  beauty  i»  no  neauty  witbont  love. 

The  other  poem. 

Thrice  tosa  these  oaken  aahes  in  the  aire, 
differi  less  materially  from  Campion***. 

c.  a  B. 

Hand-ruuno  in  Old  Title -rAOE&  (9*^  S. 
vii.  169s  331 1  396).— All  manuscripts  of  better 
execution  were  written  on  parchment  or 
paper  ruled  beforehand  with  parallel  Hne«  for 
the  text,  and  transverse  lineti  as  Hmi  tat  ions 
for  the  scribe  on  the  rif^ht  hand  and  on  the 
left,  though  the  right-hand  limit  is  often  not 
strictly  oDserved,  and  the^^e  latter  almost 
invariably  were  continued  t-o  the  margins  of 
the  book.  The  rulings  were  usually  in  faint 
sepia,  and  are  very  pleading  to  the  eye. 

In  the  earliest  printed  hooks,  which 
imitated  M3S,  as  closely  as  possible,  e^g.^  the 
Fu8t  and  Schoiffer  Bible,  the  same  type  of 
ruling  \h  faithfully  executed  by  hand,  of 
course  after  the  printer  had  finished  his 
task.  This  practice  does  not  seem  to  have 
continued.  Perhaps  the  revival  of  hand- 
ruling,  chiefly  for  books  of  devotion,  in  the 
seventeenth  century  may  have  been  suggested 
by   the  manuscripts.     It  appears    to  have 


616 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.     (^8.viLJxni«29,i»L 


taken  root  in  England  far  more  than  on  the 
Continent,  and  to  have  reached  its  climax  in 
the  reign  of  Queen  Anne. 

The  following  book,  however,  in  my 
collection  is  ruled  under  the  title  and  round 
every  pa^e,  double  at  the  top.  These  enclose 
the  heading  :— 

"  Exercitia  |  Quotidiana  |  cum   suis  |  Sacris  | 
Litaniis  |  aUisq*  piis  precibus  |  ex  |  Joanne  Wilsono 

I  et   aliis   probatis  |  auctoribus    collecta.   | 

Antverpise  |  apud  Joan.  Cnobbarum  |  1630." 

The  ink  is  a  faint  red.  A  rather  brighter 
tint  has  been  used  for  the  title-pages  of  a 
choice  little  red-morocco-bound  volume  from 
the  Woodhull  library,  comprising  the  poems 
of  Qeoree  Buchanan,  M.  Ant.  Murotus,  and 
J.  Ant.  Haifius,  printed  at  Paris,  **  In  omcina 
Rob.  Stephani,'^  1576-7-9.  1  should  take  it 
that  the  ruling  here  is  late  seventeenth 
century,  if  not  early  eighteenth,  while  that 
of  the  volume  above  has  every  appearance 
of  being  contemporary.  C.  Deedes. 

Brighton. 

I  have  a  folio  black-letter  Prayer  Book, 
1669,  ruled  with  red  lines  throughout  from 
the  title-page  to  the  end.  It  has  about 
forty  engravings  in  it,  and  even  they  are 
ruled  on  the  backs  like  the  letterpress.  It 
is  elaborately  gold  tooled,  and  bears  the 
arms  of  Charles  Stuart,  Duke  of  Richmond. 
E.  H.  Thompson. 

Books  on  Manners,  Deportment,  and 
Etiquette  (9^*»  S.  vii.  388).— The  following 
are  two  earlv  Scottish  books  on  the  above 
subjects:  *  Rules  of  Good  Deportment,  or 
Good  Breeding,  for  the  Use  of  Youth,'  1720 ; 
'Rules  of  Good  Deportment  for  Church 
Officers,  or  Friendly  Advices  to  Them,'  1730. 
These  are  by  Adam  Petrie,  "the  Scottish 
Chesterfield.'  Both  were  reprinted  in  1877. 
J.  G.  Wallace-James,  M.B. 

Haddington. 

"Rules  of  Good  Deportment,  or  of  Good 
Breeding,  for  the  Use  of  Youth,  by  Adam 
Petrie,  Ldinb.,  printed  in  the  year  m.d.cc.xx.'' 
Only  three  copies  of  the  original  edition  are 
known  to  exist,  one  being  in  the  library  at 
Abbotsford.  There  were,  however,  later 
editions.  See  further  Sir  Herbert  Maxwell's 
delightful  *  Rainy  Days  in  a  Library '  (Stock, 

1896).  J.   floLDEN  MacMiCHAEL. 

Pens  :  **  Nibs  "  and  "  Nebs"  (9"^  S.  iii.  365  ; 
iv.  95,  171,  271  ;  vii.  339).— What  has  been 
said  at  the  above  references  as  to  the  distinc- 
tion between  "  pen  "  and  "  nib,"  as  now  com- 
monly observed,  nolds  true  of  Scotland.  For  at 
least  a  generation  the  whole  article  has  been 
known  as  the  "pen,"  while  the  point  with 


which  the  writing  is  done  is  called  the  "  nib." 
In  Disraeli's  'Ooningsby,'  1844,  in  the  penul- 
timate paragraph  of  chap.  iv.  in  book  iv., 
there  is  an  allusion  to  the  goose-quill  :— 

*' The  Chairman  of  the  Conservative  AmociatioB 
and  the  Vice-Preaident  exchanged  glances,  which 
would  have  become  Tadpole  and  Taper ;  the  fov 
attorneys  nibbed  their  vena  with  increased  enem, 
and  vowed  that  nothing  could  withstand  the 
influence  of  the  aristocracy  *  in  the  long  mn."* 
Thomas  Bayne. 

Telegraphy:  its  Invention  (9"*  S.  viL 
446).— A  far  earlier  and  even  more  striking 
anticipation  of  the  electric  telegraph  wu 
given  under  that  heading  in  5^  8.  ii 
483,  in  the  form  of  a  long  extract  from 
*  Hakewell's  Apology,'  a  poem  printed  at 
Oxford  in  1636.  Alfred  F.  Kobbiks. 

D'AuvERGNE  Family  (9"»  S.  vii.  68,  117, 
176,  191,  261,  277,  332,  397).— In  Mr.  Gilbert 
Parker's  interesting  novel  'The  Battle  of  the 
Strong'  Vice- Admiral  Philip  D'Auvergoe^ 
Prince  of  Bouillon,  plays  a  leading  part 

Aldbnhak. 

Dr.  Barry  (9"»  S.  vii.  448).— I  am  unable  to 
answer  Mr.  Quarrell's  qaery  whether  the 
case  of  Dr.  James  Barr^  is  unique  among 
English  commissioned  officers,  but  sources  of 
information  as  to  the  individual  himself  an 
numerous.  As  references  are  asked  for  I 
supply  a  few.  It  is  not  the  first  time  the 
subject  has  been  mooted  in  *  N.  &  Q.*  See 
my  query  under  the  pseudonym  I  at  thtt 
time  adopted,  Nemo,  and  the  Editor's  replyt 
7"»  S.  in.  288.  In  1896  Lieut.-Col.  Bogsn 
produced  an  account  of  the  officer's  careeri 
calling  the  chief  character  Dr.  Fitzjamee,  m 
a  novel  entitled  *  A  Modem  Sphinx,'  but  it  ii 
doubtful  whether  this  work  is  to  be  found  ia 
the  B.M.  Library,  inasmuch  as  it  was  priDted 
for  private  circulation  only,  and  the  autbor 
announced  that  copies  could  only  be  obtuned 
on  application  to  him  personally  at  the 
Savage  Club,  Adelphi  Terrace,  W.a  See 
also  *D.N.B.,'  iii.  324.  In  All  the  Tetr 
Round,  xvii.  (1867)  492.  the  subject  is  taneated 
of  under  the  title  'A  Mystei 
of  the  recent  series  of  Mark 
Abroad  *  a  reference  to  this 
supplies  a  text  for  a  fuller  account^ 
may  be  found  in  Lloyd$  Weekly  Newmofr 
for  5  June,  1898,  where  a  rough  sketeh, 
purporting  to  be  a  portrait  of  the  snlqect 
m  military  uniform,  is  supplied.    Gnoxo5. 

Temple. 


The  best  reported  case  of  a  woman  . 
as  a  man  is  that  of  Major  Mitford,  Tovi 
Major  of  Malta,  who  died  acme  quarter  of  * 


•»B.viLJo»«29.woi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


617 


century  a^o.  A  statement  appeared  in  the 
Morning  Post,  as  I  believe,  to  the  effect  that 
he  was  a  woman.  He  once^  I  am  told,  fought 
a  duel.  I  neglected  at  the  time  to  make  a 
note  of  the  facts,  which  some  one  with  more 
prudent  habits  or  a  better  memory  than  I 
may  recall  and  be  able  to  supply.        H.  T. 

This  question  has  been  previously  asked, 
but   not  satisfactorily  solved.    See   a  long 
article  in  All  the   Year  Bound  for  18  May, 
1867,  'A  Mystery  Still,*  and  7^  S.  iii.  288. 
EvERABD  Home  Coleman. 

71,  Brecknock  Road. 

Vanishing  London:  Christ's  Hospital 
(9«»  S.  vii.  205,  296,  431).— Although  when  I 
wrote  my  note  I  was  not  sufficiently  mindful 
of  the  readers  I  intended  addressing,  still  I 
think  I  can  justify  what  I  said.  I  really 
feel  very  much  obligeci  to  Mr.  Page  for  what 
I  look  upon  as  his  kind  way  of  reproving 
what  he  considers  a  wild  piece  of  unjustifiable 
assertion  on  my  part. 

With  every  intention  of  praising  every- 
thing he  could,  the  writer  of  Bohn's  (or 
Weale's)  'London'  was  unable  to  find  any 
part  of  the  Bluecoat  School  that  he  could 
mention  as  good.  Therefore  I  infer  that  it  is 
all  bad.  But  besides  this  the  best  he  can 
say  is  that  one  part  might  be  presumed  to 
be  good,  but  it  had  been  destroyed  (i.e., 
restored).    He  says  :— 

**  It  oocupies  the  site  of  the  Monastery  of  Grey 
Friars,  andf  coatains  a  sli/^ht  relic  thereof  in  a  row 
of  arches,  formerly  a  cloister,  on  the  south  side  of 
the  principal  quadrangle.  The  part«  built  in  the 
•  reigns  of  Edward  and  his  sisters  have  all  been 
restored,  and  are  not  now  distinguishable  from  the 
modem  additions,  which  all  affect  the  style  (if 
such  it  can  be  called)  of  that  period,  except  the 
Chreat  Hall  (the  building  seen  from  Newgate  Street), 
which  is  well-proportioned  Gothic  work,  very 
creditable  to  its  designer  John  Shaw,  and  was 
bailt  between  1825  and  1829.  The  Grammar  School 
(pseado-Elizabethan)  has  been  added  still  more 
recently." 

The  cloister,  to  judge  from  the  little  stone- 
work that  is  left,  might  perhaps  be  Ed- 
wardian ;  it  is  bad  enough  for  that,  but  I 
should  say  it  was  a  poor  copy  :  all  the  interior 
of  the  cloisters  has  been  altered,  for  it  now 
has  a  lath-and-plaster  ceiling.  I  have  just 
had  a  look  from  Newgate  Street  with  a  good 
field-glass  at  the  details  of  the  Hall  ;  they  are 
mongrel  Gk>thic.  I  do  not  as  a  rule  use  the 
absurd  word  "Gothic "for  "early  English," 
but  here  it  seems  more  convenient,  as  it  is 
somewhat  abusive.  Ralph  Thomas. 

Dual   Number   in    Provincial   German 

£*»  S.  vii.  449).— Information  about  this  may 
found   in   Grimm's  *Deutsches  Worter- 


buch,'  «i^  voce  'Enker.'  It  is  described  as 
"  nur  im  bairisch-ostreichischen  Volksdialect 
haftend,  und  dessen  auffallendes  Kenn- 
zeichen."  It  may  be  heard,  for  instance,  in 
the  Tyrol.  Jas.  Platt,  Jun. 

.  The  well-known  Middle  High  German  dual 
forms  of  the  pronoun  enk  ==ihr  (you)  and 
enker =evier  (your),  the  only  remnants  of  the 
complete  dual  of  the  personal  pronoun  found 
in  the  Gothic  language,  have  been  preserved 
in  the  Bavarian  dialect  down  to  the  present 
time  (see  Schmeller^s  *Ba^erisches  Worter- 
buch,'  i.  83,  first  published  m  1827). 

U.  Krebs. 
Oxford. 

Pews  annexed  to  Houses  (9">  S.  vii.  388). 
—The  vestry  book  for  the  parish  of  St.  John 
Baptist,  .Cardiff  under  date  1813,  contains 
this  record  :— 

"  Resolved  that  the  several  Seats  in  the  Gallery 
be  apportioned  to  and  among  the  several  persons 
hereunder  named  in  respect  of  the  premises  set 
opposite  their  names  and  they  chuse  k  fix  upon  the 
Seats  in  order  as  they  are  hereafter  named  and  that 
such  Seats  in  future  be  attached  to  the  premises  to 
which  they  are  to  be  fixed. 

"John  Richards  Esq*  in  respect  of  the  Comer 
House. 

"John  Wood  J"  „  „  „  his  own 
dwellinghouse. 

"Penydarran   Com^       „        „        „  house 

occup**  by  Joseph  Da  vies,"  &c. 

This  was  an  apportionment  of  seats  in  a 
newly  erected  gallery,  for  the  benefit  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  churchless  parish  of 
St.  Mary,  Cardiff.  The  seats  were  rented, 
and  the  income  applied  in  aid  of  church 
rates.  The  company  referred  to  was  the 
Penydarren  Iron  Company. 

In  the  previous  year  it  was  resolved  that 

"  every  Parishioner  claiming  Title  to  the  Seats  of 
the  Outdwellers  sho^  at  their  own  Expence  take 
such  measures  for  recovering  of  the  same  as  to 
them  shall  seem  meet." 

With  the  exception,  however,  of  the  resolu- 
tion of  1813,  I  find  nothing  in  the  parish 
books  to  illustrate  the  annexation  of  pews 
to  particular  dwelling-houses.  There  is,  of 
course,  ample  evidence  that  the  appropriation 
of  seats  to  individuals  was  the  practice  right 
back  to  the  Reformation,  and  probably  to 
an  even  earlier  period  ;  but  at  Cardiff  the 
evidence  is  rather  against  the  antiquity  of 
the  usage  as  to  which  your  correspondent 
inquires. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  identification  of 
pews  with  houses  seems  to  have  prevailed 
much  earlier  in  the  parish  of  Llangwm 
Uchaf,  Monmouthshire.  I  have  a  MS.  of  the 
year  1671  recording  an  appropriation  of  the 


518 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES,     c^s.  viljuk«».i9ol 


seats  in  the  church  there.  It  shows  plainly 
enough  the  connexion  of  particular  seats 
with  certain  dwelling-houses.  For  instance, 
a  seat  is  assigned  to  John  Thomas  William, 
"for  Tenements  he  houldeth  in  Crawnan"; 
Georse  ap  Richard  Cradock,  "  for  the  lands 
of  w^m  jphe'  Howell,  Now  Rich.  Creed"; 
Morgan  Thomas  Edward,  "for  Tir  y  gwair 
hir  "  (Long-Qrass  Land). 

John  Hobson  Matthews. 
Town  Hall,  Cardiff. 

In  this  connexion  the  old  and  new  churches 
at  Marple,  Cheshire,  standing  on  adjacent 
sites,  furnish  interesting  details.  The  pews 
in  the  old  church  are  annexed  to  the  sur- 
rounding farm  holdings,  but  for  various 
reasons  have  ceased  to  tie  occupied  by  the 
tenants,  and  the  rights  therein  could  not  be 
seized  by  the  incumbent.  This  led  to  the 
building  of  the  new  church.  In  the  old 
church  the  pews  are  owned,  but  not  occupied. 
In  the  new  church  they  are  occupied,  but 
not  owned.  At  Kirk  Lonan,  Laxey,  Isle  of 
Man,  the  names  of  the  estates  are  painted  on 
the  pew  doors,  not  the  names  of  tne  families 
occupying  the  pews.  Lonan  was  a  parish  so 
far  back  as  1726.  Arthur  May  all. 

John  Southerden  Burn  in  his  'History  of 
Parish  Registers  in  England,'  under  the  head 
of  *Quorndon,  Leicestershire,'  gives  the  fol- 
lowing instance  :— 

**  Memorandum,  April  25,  1730,  George  Colling- 
wood  ^ave  to  John  Chapman  the  foremost  pew 
belonging  to  him  the  said  George  Collingwood  in 
the  church  of  Quonidon  for  his  own  proper  use. 
Thomas  Allen,  Clerk. 
Edward  Farnham." 
In  a  note  :— 

**  An  old  entry  in  a  Vestry  Book,  stating  that  a 
pew  had  been  repaired  by  the  then  owner  of  a 
messuage,  has  been  admitted  evidence  of  the  right 
of  a  person  claiming  under  him.— Price  v.  Little- 
wood,  3  Campb.,  288/' 

For  reference  Uj  works  on  this  subject  see 
'The  History  and  Law  of  Church  Seats  or 
Pews,'  by  Alfred  Heales,  Proctor  in  Doctors' 
Commons,  London,  1872.  There  is  also  a 
long  and  interesting  article  in  All  the  Year 
Bound,  25  August,  1888. 

EvERARD  Home  Coleman. 
71,  Brecknock  Road. 

There  was  one  annexed  to  Halliford  House, 
Lower  Halliford,  Shepperton- on -Thames, 
Middlesex,  the  house  ot  my  grandfather, 
Commodore  James  Jeakes,  H.E.I. CM.,  on 
whose  riverside  lawn  was  a  "Xapoleon 
willow"  from  St.  Helena.  The  house  is,  I 
believe,  now  occupied  by  a  member  of  the 
Rutter  family.  I  remember  being  seated  in 
one  of  these  square  pews  (generally  attached 


to  manor  or  other  notable  houses)  at,  I  think, 
Preston,  Brighton.  The '  Encyc.  Diet'  quotes : 
"  *  Pews  in  the  church  may  descend  by  custom 
immemorial  (without  any  ecclesiastical  con- 
currence), from  the  ancestor  to  the  heir. — 
Blackstone,  'Commentaries,'  bk.  iiL  ch.  88." 
Thomas  J.  Jeakjbb. 

Mr.  Addt  may  probably  find  some  info^ 
mation  in  *  The  History  and  Law  of  Church 
Seats  or  Pews,'  by  Alfred  Heales,  F.SA, 
Proctor  in  Doctors'  Commons,  two  vols.,  Bu^ 
terworths,  1872.  CJf.  vol.  i.  chap.  vL, '  Earliest 
Appropriations.'  G.  BL.  Thompson. 

"CoosT  "  (9^»»  S.  vii.  445).— There  can  be  oo 
doubt  that  the  late  Prof.  Palgrave's  interore- 
tation  of  *'  coost "  as  carried  was  so  weak  as 
to  be  misleading.  We  may  sometimes  see 
the  force  of  a  word  by  taking  another  form 
and  meaning  as  an  illustration,  and  if  we 
take  the  word  "  cast  up,"  meaning  "  to  bring 
up  bygones,"  we  have  an  idea  of  Maggies 
intense  feeling,  though  not  of  her  prociw 
bearing.  Recrimination  and  disdain  both 
indicate  deep  feeling.  That  there  is  an 
exception  to  this  intensity  when  "cast  up' 
is  used  merely  in  the  sense  of  "  reproach,"  as 
it  is  by  Tennyson's  Northern  Farmer  in 
describing  the  parson's  remarks  *'  'bout  Bessr 
Marris's  barne,"  does  not  make  the  weak 
interpretation  of  "coost"  correct.  But  the 
farmer's  vocabulary  was  limited,  and  perhaps 
the  parson  intended  neither  reproach  nor 
"  cast  oop."  Arthur  Mayall 

New  England  Donation-Party  (9***  S.  til 
360).— At  this  reference  a  reviewer,  quoting 
from  a  book  under  notice,  inserts  the  com- 
ment, "A  New  England  donation  -  party 
[whatever  that  may  be]."  Until  recently 
no  one  who  ever  spent  even  a  year  in  New 
England  outside  its  largest  cities  would  have 
questioned  the  expression,  for  in  all  its  mral 
and  even  suburban  towns,  during  the  fint 
three-fourths  of  the  last  century,  an  annual 
donation- party  was  as  much  a  part  of  estab- 
lished custom  as  Thanksgiving  Day  itself. 
Now,  I  suppose,  it  has  fallen  into  "  innocuous 
desuetude,"  unless  in  a  few  remote  hamlets. 
Upon  a  selected  day  the  parishioners  of  the 
clergyman  whose  family  were  to  be  the 
recipients  carried  to  his  house  gifts  of  all 
kinas— sometimes  money,  but  more  often 
vegetables,  fruit,  poultry,  wood  for  the  fires, 
clothing,  household  furnishiuKs,  or  whatever 
seemed  likely  to  be  acceptable  to  the  bene- 
ficiaries or  of  sufficient  credit  to  the  donors. 
There  could  be  mentioned  very  few  articles 
of  household  or  personal  use  that  have  not 
somewhere  appeared  at  these  donatiofit,  and 


iLju«29.igoi.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


619 


lusing  the  array  often  was.  The 
idemblage  was  in  the  evening,  when 
vas  served  by  the  good  women  of  the 
md  jollitj  had  full  sway.  Sometimes, 
poorer  villages,  this  annual  gift-day 
Lrt  of  the  stated  agreement  between 
ud  people.  The  clergyman's  stipend 
e  so  much  in  money  "and  a  aona- 
»ut  more  often  it  took  the  form  of  a 
ofifering,  though  counted  upon  by 
Bs.  M.  C.  L. 

myll"  (9^^  S.  vii.  427).— This  means 
or  a  stroke,  and  according  to  the 
iition  of  Jamieson's  ^Scottish  Die- 
it  has  a  variant  "rummel."  Thus 
's  lines, 

ind  mony  a  riall  rymmyll  ryde 
le  roucht  thair  [ai>on]  athir  syde, 

3xplained  thus  :  '*  And  many  a  royal 
^ere  is  dealt  there  on  either  side." 
Thomas  Bayne. 

iyll=7iimnieli  a  blow.  I  am  afraid 
is  in  error  in  saying  Jamieson  gives 
as  the  word  occurs  there  with  the 

e  to  evidently  those  very  lines  in 
J.  G.  Wallace-Jambs,  M.B. 

iRton. 

JR.  Acad.'  (9^^  S.  vii.  68,  198,  392).— 
e  given  in  my  answer  to  the  above 
/as  on  the  authority  of  Ames  and 
's  *  Typographical  Antiquities,'  1786, 
nder  Thomas  Powell  gives  the  follow- 
347.  *The  Attorney's  Academy,'  Middle 
Library,  octavo,  and  Watt  s  *  Biblio- 
ritannica.' "  After  reading  the  kindly 
intimation  of  my  mistake,  I  requested 
I  in  London  to  copy  the  title-page  of 
Dosed  1547  edition  in  the  library  men- 
and  find  it  is  dated  1647,  also  that 

a  copy  of  the  1623  in  the  Gray's  Inn 
,  which  probably  is  the  first  edition. 

Q.  V.  will  accept  my  thanks  for 
ng  my  error  made  in  using  informa- 
ihout  duly  weighing  it. 

John  Kadcliffe. 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS,  &c. 

end  of  Sir  Lancelot  dn  Lac.  By  Jessie  L. 
n.    (Nutt.) 

CSTON,  who  has  already  contributed  to  the 
I  Library"  of  Mr.  Nutt  a  study  of  'The 
of  Sir  dawain,'  has  added  to  the    same 

elaborate  analysis  of  the  companion  legend 
incelot,  it«  origin*  development,  and  i>osi- 

the  Arthurian  romantic  cycle.  In  the 
Q  of  a  task  upon  which  she  is  known  to 
n  for  some  time  engaged,  and  with  regard 


to  which  she  possesses  unrivalled  kDowledge,  she 
upsets  the  oonolusions  of  many  of  her  predeoesson, 
and  treats  the  subject  with  a  thoroughness  un- 
equalled since  Mr.  Edwin  Sidney  Hartland  gave 
us  his  exhaustive  work  on  *  The  Legend  of  Perseus.' 
Starting  with  the  view  she  has  alrei&dy  enunciated, 
that  in  order  to  understand  the  growth  and  deve- 
lopment of  the  Arthurian  cycle  we  must  disentangle 
the  lives  of  its  principal  heroes,  she  sets  herself  to 
establish  what  in  this,  as  in  other  legends,  is  the 
product  of  literary  invention,  and  what  in  its  prin- 
cipal features  the  outcome  of  mythical  tradition. 
Though  to  the  general  reader  the  beet  known,  the 
most  representative,  and  perhaps  the  most  popular 
of  Arthur's  knights,  the  roan  to  whose  sin  and  its 
results  may  mainly  be  attributed  the  passing  of 
Arthur  ana  the  disruption  of  the  noble  fellowship 
of  knights,  Lancelot  is  no  hero  of  prehistoric  myth, 
*'  solar  or  otherwise,  as  Gawain  or  Perceval  may 
well  be."  He  is,  moreover,  a  comparativelv  late 
addition  to  Arthurian  legend.  For  the  confusion 
that  exists  in  the  popular  mind  concerning  Lancelot 
Tennyson's  rearrangement  of  Malory's  previous  re- 
arrangement is  mainly  responsible.  Miss  Weston 
does  not  hesitate  to  affirm  that '  The  Idylls  of  the 
King' may  be  regarded  as  "outside  the  range  of 
critical  Arthurian  scholarship,"  and  should  never 
be  advanced  *'  as  evidence  for  the  smallest  tittle  of 
Arthurian  romance."  As  regards  the  name  always 
associated  with  his,  the  assertion  that  the  hero 
was  sent  to  fetch  home  the  bride  of  Arthur  is  due 
to  Tennyson.  Lancelot  in  the  genuine  story  being 
unborn  at  the  time  of  Arthur's  marriage  with 
Guenevere.  In  the  early  legends,  thoueh  the 
names  are  mentioned  of  Sir  Gawain.  Sir  £iy.  Sir 
Bedivere.  Sir  Ider,  Sir  Carados,  ana  others,  that 
of  Lancelot  never  occurs.  It  is  first  found  in  the 
*  Erec '  (the  '  Roman  d'Irec  et  d'Enide  ')of  Chrestiens 
de  Troyes,  one  of  the  most  voluminous  of  the  early 
romancers,  who  died  about  the  close  of  the  twelftn 
century,  and  whose  first  work  it  probably  was. 
Herein  Lanceloz  del  Lac  comes  third  in  order  of 
merit  in  the  list  of  Knights  of  the  Round  Table,  his 
superiors  being  Sir  Gawain  and  Sir  Erec  Chrestiens 
afterwards,  in  *  Clig^,'  puts  Sir  Perceval  before  him. 
while  Hartmann  von  Aue,  in  the  German  *Erec, 
also  reckons  Lanzelot  von  Arlac  third  in  order. 
No  mention  is  ever  made  of  any  love  existing 
between  Lancelot  and  Guenevere.  In  *  Le  Chevalier 
de  la  Charrette'  of  Chrestiens  Lancelot  blossoms 
into  the  queen's  lover,  and  is  ranked  above  Gawain. 
while,  curiously  enough,  from  the  last  poem  o\ 
Chrestiens,  the  *  Perceval,'  Lancelot  entirely  dis- 
appears. Miss  Weston  further  comments  on  the 
absence  of  Lancelot  from  Welsh  Uterature  and  his 
practical  exclusion  from  the  English  vernacular 
romances.  We  cannot  follow  Miss  Weston's  general 
treatment  of  her  subject,  though  we  accept  her  as 
an  ideal  foiide  into  what  Spenser  calls  the  ^*  delight- 
ful land  of  Faery."  Her  work  is  a  scientific  as  well 
as  a  delightful  exposition  of  views  the  value  and 
significance  of  which  future  discoveries  are  likely 
to  establish.  We  have  only  one  suggestion  to  make. 
We  think  she  should  translate  her  quotations  and 
extracts  from  the  German,  (yerman  in  connexion 
with  the  Arthurian  cycle  is  not  so  generally  known 
as  French. 

Inqnvsitionti  awl  AaHCHameniH  relating  to  FeudcUAida, 

im-Wl.    Vol.  IL    (Stationery  Office.) 
This  volume  follows  the  same  lines  as  its  predecessor, 
and,  so  far  as  we  can  test  it,  equal  care  has  booa 


520 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    [9*8.viLJuvK2gtUBL 


d6votc<i  to  iU  production.  The  editore'  names  do 
not  appe&r  on  the  title-pagie,  but  we  find  from  the 
pref&oe  that  Mr,  A.  S.  Mftskelyne  and  Mr,  J,  V, 
Lyle  have  bad  the  work  entrusted  to  them.  The 
documente  now  given  are  of  Ciiual  importance 
t-o  the  local  historian  and  the  genealogist  with 
those  contained  in  tho  first  volume.  Except  in 
the  ca«e9  where  eodeaiastical  estates  or  the 
poi^seesions  of  the  ji^reat  feud 0^1  houiea  are  con- 
cerned, all  students  have  hitherto  found  gf:&Li 
difficulties  in  the  way  whe^n  endeavouring:  to  trace 
the  descent  of  proiierty.  The  ordinary  county  hia- 
toriea  are  full  of  errors,  and  in  some  inetanecfl  their 
compilers  have  been  but  in  a  small  meaaure  to 
blame.  We  b&ve,  of  course,  nothing  whatever  to 
say  in  ejcten nation  of  the  blunders  of  tho&e  persons 
who  have  at  various  times  undertaken  to  write  on 
sabjeets  of  which  they  had  not  even  a  rudimentary 
knowledge :  but  error  has  been  by  no  means  the 
monopoly  of  these  hopeless  people,  for  it  requires 
a  range  of  acquirement  with  which  few  have 
been  gifted  to  comprehend  many  of  the  oriirinftH 
written  as  they  are  jn  highly  contracted  Latin  and 
in  unfamiliar  and  rapidly  fihanginff  hands.  Besides 
this,  a  preliminary  difficulty  had  to  be  overcome. 
To  find  the  documents  in  which  tb©  desired  infor- 
mation is  contained  amon^  the  wilderness  of  papers 
in  the  Record  Office  was  very  often  quite  a  hope- 
less task.  Our  successors  will,  ao  far  as  research  of 
this  kind  is  concerned,  live  in  happier  timefl.  When 
this  seriefl  has  been  completed  means  will  he  at 
hand  by  which  to  trace  in  most  caaes  the  devolution 
of  landed  property  from  a  remote  period.  The 
inquirer  must  not,  however,  hope  to  find  informa- 
tion of  a  wider  kind.  What  is  recorded  is  in  most 
casea  of  a  narrowly  territorial  and  fiscal  character. 
Occasional ly,  though  very  rarely*  we  do  come 
npon  facts  which  throw  light  on  the  manners  of 
former  timeSi  aa  when  it  is  put  on  record  that  at 
Fordinton^  in  Dorsetshire^  in  12S6,  if  a  thief  were 
caught  with  the  goods  and  chattels  of  another  in 
hia  possession  he  was  to  be  hanged  there  arjd  then, 
Ifi  however,  be  were  arrested  fin  suspicion,  he  was 
to  be  sent  to  Homerton  to  be  judged  according  to 
law. 

An  Itinerary  of  the  Shifflish  CtUhtdrojln.  (Compiled 
by  James  G.  Gilchrist,  M-A.,  and  edited  by  the 
Rev-  T.  Perkins,  M.A.  (Bell  *  Sons.) 
This  work,  primarily  intended  for  the  use  of 
American  visitors  to  England,  is  isuued  in  the  same 
form  as  the  **  Cathedral  Series"  of  Messrs.  Bell,  to 
which  it  forms  a  serviceable  —  in  deed  ^  an  all  but 
indispensable— supplement.  \%  shows  the  manner 
Id  which,  starting  from  a  given  point— for  the  con- 
venience of  Americans  supposed  to  be  Liverpool 
but  easily  to  be  chani^ed  —  the  whole  circle  of 
cathedral  churches  can  be  seen.  As  the  editor 
points  out,  it  is  JiD  less  useful  for  the  Englishman 
who  wishes  to  see  a  particular  srroup.  An  intro- 
ductory chapt'er  supplies  information  enabling  those 
who  have  not  made  a  study  of  architecture  to 
appreciate  and  enjoy  the  merits  of  the  buildings 
he  visits^  every  one  of  which  han,  we  may  say, 
a  distinct  and  lovely  physio^omy  of  its  own,  a 
physiognomy  of  which  one  mav  become  enamoured. 
A  synopsis  of  the  ecclesiastical  character  and  archi- 
tectural features  of  each  cathedral  church  is  also 
given  The  book  ia  heartily  to  be  commended^  and 
each  of  the  t>c>9sea3ors  of  the  senes,  whom  we  know 
to  be  numerous^  should  haato  to  join  the  work  to 
the  collection.    It  abounds  with  illustrations,  and 


has  a  very  useful  plan  of  an  edifice  of  the  kind 
besides   a   table   of   dimensions  of   the  pHndfil 

siructn.res. 

Scottish  Notf^  and  9i«rie«  has  issued  a  General 
Index  to  the  First  Benes,  I887-9&.  A  great  variety 
of  matters  of  literary,  historical ,  and  antiqnariaB 
I  interest  are  dealt  with,  among  the  con tn baton 
being  some  of  our  own  friends.  The  index  would 
V36  more  serviceable  if  issued  in  &  cover  or  a  «ae. 
The  publishers  are  Brown  &  Co.,  of  Aberdeen. 

The  late  Mr.  SUnley  Leigh  ton  had,  shortly  befon 
bis  lamented  death,  sent  to  the  pr^s  a  volums 
entitled  *  Shropshire  Houses  Past  and  Pt^sent^ 
illustrated  from  Drswinj^s  by  Stanley  Ldghton, 
M.P.,  F,S.A.,  with  Beecnptive  Lett«rprew  by  the 
Artist.'  The  sketches,  to  the  number  of  fifty*  Mtt 
reproduced  in  facsimile,  and  include  hon««s  of  lU 
periods.  The  volume,  which  is  being  printed  at 
the  Chiswick  Prera,  will  be  issued  in  the  fi™t  place 
to  subscribers  before  publication. 

The  forthcoming  section  of  the  *  New  Engllil 
Dictionary'  carries  on  the  work  firom  Jew  to 
Kmrine,  and  the  following  section  will  finish 
K  and  complete  Vol.  V.  Dr,  Murray,  who  is  n^ 
jcpoDRible  for  the  new  instalment,  invites  don 
attention  to  the  words  jtylg^,  jttry,  and  Jw^kt 
Jingo  has  a  special  interest  at  the  present  timt 
The  opening  article  in  K  sketches  the  interest bg 
history  of  that  letter  and  its  status  in  Englidi. 
where,  like  J^  it  ban  only  a  restricted  ii&tif«  func- 
tion, but  A  lar^e  alien  constituency. 

'  Notes  aj?b  QtrEnns '  for  Salk  (9**"  S.  vti.  3871 
—I  note  that  Mr.  G.  King,  bookseller,  of  Tof^oif^ 
has  for  sale  *  N,  k  Q*,*  Firat  8eri^,  in  12  Tok, 
original  doth,  1S49-60,  for  3^.  12s,  C  W. 


Wt  muni  ccdl  Mpeevd  tMtterUum  fa   tkt  /o^awn^ 

On  all  eommnnioations  must  be  written  the  niM 
and  address  of  the  sender,  not  netseesarily  for  ^b< 
lieatiou,  but  as  a  guarantee  of  g:ood  faith. 

We  cannot  undertake  to  answer  qoeHee  privately. 

To  secure  insertion  of  communJcationf  ooti^ 
npondents  must  observe  the  following  mlm.  Let 
each  note,  Quer^,  or  reply  be  written  on  a  ■epitttt 
slip  of  paper,  with  the  signature  of  the  writer  iod 
such  address  as  he  wishes  to  appear.  Whem  answo^ 
ing  queries,  or  making  notes  with  regard  to  prerioin 
entries  in  the  paper,  contributor  are  requested  to 
put  in  parentheses,  immediately  after  the  end 
headings  the  series,  volume,  and  pa|re  or  pi|{M  tn 
which  they  refer.  Correspondents  who  topeif 
fineries  are  requested  to  head  the  «eoood  ooe- 
mnni cation  *'  Duplicate,*' 

M,  C.  L.  ( ''Man in  the  street'*).— Already ao(ed 

as  Emerson's,  9***  S.  ii.  131, 

Editorial  communications  should  be  addrMteii  t« 
•■  The  Edit^>r  of  '  Notes  and  Queries'**— Ad vertiM* 
ments  and  Business  Letters  to  *'  The  Pabliab^*— 
at  the  Office,  Bream -a  Bui  Id  ings.  Chancery  line,  E,C 

We  beg  leave  to  state  that  we  decline  to  retura 
communications  which,  for  any  reason,  we  do  not 
print;  and  to  this  rule  we  can  make  no  estc^iioiL 


9»  a  vn.  j0K«  29. 1901.]      NOTES  AND  QUERIES. 


Hffbth  BditiOB.  prlM  BLcpenee.  eloUi. 

REMARKABLE  COMETS  :  a  Brief  Sarvey  of  the 
mo«t  latnMtliiir  Pteta  in  the  Hlitorr  of  Oomutarj  Aaittimomj. 
By  W.  T.  LTNN.  B.A.  F.R.A.8. 

•AMFSOM  LOW  ft  CO.  Bt.  Doiiftui't  Hovae, Fetter  Lue.  BO. 

lULLETON'S    HERALDIC    OFFICE 

fer  aeTehet  sad  A«theatle  lalonnatloB  reepeettar 

▲RMOBIAL   BBABINOS   AND   FAMILY    DR8CBNT8. 

with  a  Separate  Departmeat  for  the  Artlette  Prodoetloa  of 

HBRALDIO  PAINTUfO  AMD  BMORAYINO. 

Book-Flafeee.  Seals.  DIee.  Sigaet  RlaR*.  Uwrj  Battoae.  Cseeted  Mote- 

paper.  YUitiBff  aad  laTltattoa  Oardt,  *e. 


C^ 


n.  PICCADILLY.  LONDON  (opposite  the  Oreea  Park). 


ATHENiEUM  PRESS.— JOHN  EDWARD 
FRANCIS.  Priater  of  the  AiKmtmtmi,  ITtUs  mmd  Q»mU$,  te..  la 
pcmared  to  SUBMIT  BSTIMATBS  for  aU  klads  of  BOOK.  NBWS. 
aadTpBRIODICAL  P&IMTIMO.— U,  Bream's  Baildlags.  Chaaoerr 
LaM.l.C. 

THE    AUTHOR'S     HAIRLESS     PAPER -PAD. 
(The  LBADBNHALL  FRBSS.  Ltd.,  Pabllshers  sad  Prlafiers. 
SO,  Lsadeahall  Street.  Loadoa.  B.O. ) 
Ooaiatat  halrtese  paper,  over  whleh  the   pea   sUm  with    p^rf«rt 
freedom     Slipeoer  eaeh.    fta.  o«r  dosea.  raled  or  plala.    New  Poeket 
Hae.  Sa.  per  dosea,  raled  or  plaia. 

Aathors  shoald  aoce  that  The  Leadeohall  Praaa,  Lt4..  eaaaoi  be 
raapoaalhle  tor  the  loss  of  MS8.  b?  Are  or  otherwlae.    Dapllette  copies 


JTICKPHAST    PASTE    is  HEAPS  better  than 

?   earn  for  alieklaff  la  Serape.  Jolaiaf  Papers.  *e.    M.  aad  I«.  with 
roar>  aaefal  Brneh  (aot  a  Tor).    Sead  two  atampe  to 

ir  a  aample  Bottle,  laeladlar  Brash.    ^- — 

sadeahaum 


B.C. 


laotory.  Sagar  Loaf  Ooart, 
Of  aU  Statloaers.    stlehphast  Paste  stiehs 


EXCHANGE    (or    would    LET),    a    HOUSE    in 
Soath-Weot  Sabfarb  (6N.  reatal)  for  a  Kesideaee  la  the  Coaatrf 
or  Seaside  fOr  Aagast  or  laager— Apply  F.,  Atheacam  Press,  Bream's 


WM.     &     GEO.     LAW. 

COFFEE— SUGAK— TEA. 

104.  NEW  OXFORD  STREET.  W.C. 

SOHWBPPBS  WATBRA  awarded  Oold  Medal  at  lateraatloaal 
BxhlUtloB.  Paris,  1900. 

SCHWEPPES  MINERAL  WATERS  are 
ALWAYS  the  STANDARD  of  COMPARISON. 

OchweppesOoda. 

THESE  WATERS  (Soda,  Seltzer,  Potass,  Lithia, 
Lemonsule,  Tonic- Water,  Ginger  Beer,  Dry  Ginger 
Ale,  &c.,&o.)  have  been  celebrated  for  over  a  century. 
They  have  always  had  the  patronage  of  Royalty. 


(    ENGLISH  NATURAL  TABLE  WATER;—    > 
<  SCHWEPPES  SPARKLING  MALVERN, } 
In  SPLITS,  PINTS,  and  QUARTS.  t 


ScHWBPPES,  LTD.,  LONDON,   MaLVERN, 

OLASeOW,  LIVXaVOOL,  BRISTOL.  STDMBT,   aad  MBLfiOUKHB. 


JSter^  8ATVRDA  T,  of  amy  Booieaelkr  or  NiwmgnU, 
Pria  THRBBPBNCE. 

THE    ATHEN^UM 

iOURNAL  OP 

BlVGLISB   and  FOREIGN  LITERATVRE 

and  the  DRAMA. 


Th4  A  THBNMVM  for  June  H  eontaiiu  ArticUi  on 
CANADA  and  the  BMPIRB. 
The  SOCIAL  PRORLBM. 
XAMT«  RBLIOIOUS  PHILOSOPHY. 
A  FRIBND  of  WALTBR  ROOTT. 

M.  GASTON  PARIS  oa  VILLON  ' 

NBW  NOVBLS  :-OQr  Friead  the  Charlataa :  The  Crisis  s  The  ArahUshop 

aad  the  Lady  ;  The  Bxtermlaatloa  of  Lore ;  A  Wonaa  Dcrallet ; 

The  Arlstoerats  t  Robert  Aaays,  Poor  Prleet. 
SPORTS  aad  PASTIBIB8. 
ENGLISH  HISTORY. 
BOOKS  oa  the  WAR. 

OVR  LIBRARY  TARLB  (Old  Booksollera ;  TOlstor  aad  his  Prohlems  '• 
Lahoor  Lefflalatloa  ta  Mew  Zealaad). 

LMT  of  NBW  BOOKS. 

RBR  AN8WBR ;  The  NINTH  JUBILBB  Of  GLASGOW  UNIVBRSrTY  : 
The  RBPBRBNOB  to  CHB8S  la  FITZHBRBBRT'S  'BOOK  of 
HUSBANDRY'}  DR  GARDINBR.  OLTVBR  CBOMWBLL.  aad 
the  INSURRBCnON  of  MARCH.  1066;  The  DAISY  la  AMERICA  ; 
The  PUBUSHBRS'  CONGRESS  at  LUP2IO. 


UTBRART  GOSSIP. 

SCIBNCB :— AstroaoBiloal  Notes;   Soeiettes;  Meetlags  Nest  Week: 

Ooeelp. 
FINB  ARTS:-The  BipooltloB  ael'B&fuiee;  The  Salons  of  18Q1  > 

Sale;  Gossip.  ' 

MUSIC  r-'Otello.'  •Alda.'aad  'Fsost';    PareeU's  'Fhlry  Qaaea ' ; 

Recitals  by  Mr  H.  Baaer,  MadaoM  OarreAo.  aad  M.  Paderewskl  t 

Gossip ;  Performaaees  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  .—Library  Table ;  Gossip. 


ThM  ATHKNjBUIH  for  June  IS  oontaim  ArtieU* on 
MR.  SAVAGB-LANDOR  la  CHINA. 
M.  MAETERLINCK'S  NEW  BOOK. 
DR.  JBSSOPP'S  ESSAYS. 
SELECTIONS  from  NIETZSCHE. 
SHEFFIELD  la  the  EIGHTBENTH  CENTURY. 
NBW  NOVBLS  :-Doom  Castie ;  The  Wise  Maa  of  Steraerosst  The 

Soeoad  Toath  of  Theodora  Deeaaires ;  The  Helsset  of  MaTarre ; 

Ladr  Haifa:  la  the  City;    The  Yoaag  Sqalre's  ResolTO;   The 

Wisdom  of  Bsaa ;  Horace  MorrelL 
BOOKS  oa  the  WAR. 
ALFRED  the  GREAT. 
EGYPTOLOGICAL  BOOKS. 

OUR  LIBRARY  TABLE  (How  SaUors  Flfht;  "Ballhlo  BUI"). 
LIST  of  NBW  BOOKS. 
SIR   W.  BBBANT;   The    PUBLISHBRS'  OONORESS  at   LEIPZIG: 

HUCHOWN  :  ROBERT  WILLIAM  BUCHANAN  ;  DR.  GARDINBR, 

OLIVER    CROMWELL,    aad     MAJOR^ENERAL    OVERTON; 

SALES. 

Auo- 
LITERARY  GOSSIP. 

SCIENCE  >-8oeletles:  Meetiags  Next  Week  ;  Goesip. 
FINE  ARTS:-The  Early  Age  olIGreeeo;  Notes  from  Borne ;  8alas{ 

Gossip. 
MUSIC :--Trlstaa  aad  Isolde';   'Loheaffrta';   Verdi  Memorial  Ooa- 

cert ;  Goesip ;  Perfotmaaoes  Next  Week. 
DRAMA  :-Goselp.  

OPKI(!K  for  ADVERTISEMENTS, 
Breams  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  E.G. 


Pablished  by  JOHN  C.  FRANCIS, 
Bream's  Buildings,  Chancery  Lane,  E.C. 


NOTES  AND  QUERIES.    (»*b.vil  Junb29.iwl 
Messrs.  W.  H.  SMITH  &  SON,  186,  Strand,  W.U., 

WILL  FORWARD  from  the  LIBRARY  DBPARTHBNT 

TME  woijjomvw 

MAOAZISBS  ASD  T  T'O'Q  A  P  V    PAPTFQ  WITHDRAWN  FROM 

RBVIBWS,  AjIDaAHiI     UUITlJSlO  OIROULATIOH, 

POSTAGE  FREE  to  any  part  of  the  United  Qngdom  at  the  Prices  annexed, 

UntU  forthMT  notiM  i~ 
MAGAZINES,  SIX  WEEKS  AFTER  DATE. 


•,4.  9.  4. 

Argoty 7  6  MftomllUui't     •••       •••       »••       ...  7  f 

Bliwkwood't     18  0  Monthly  Review 1$  0 

Oeotory 10  6  Natioiud  Review        ^       ]ft  « 

Oontemponry  Review        16  0  Nineteenth  Oentory  ...       ^ ...  16  0 

Oorahilf. 7  6  FftllMall          ...  8  I 

BngUth  Illuatrated 6  0  Revne  des  Deux  Mondet     30  Q 

Fortnightly  Review 16  0  Scribner't         7  f 

HarpeiKt 9  0  Temple  Bar      »  7  f 

Lonipnan't 6  0 

QUARTERLY  REVIEWS,  THREE  MONTHS  AFTER  DATE. 
Hdinburgh       ^ 7    6 1  QuMterly  „.       ^     7  i 

The  tenns  will  be  It.  6d,  per  ammrn  less  to  Subsoribers  living  soffioiently  near  the  BooksteUi  to 
have  the  Magaiines  delivered  therefrom. 

SUBSCRIPTIONS  MUST  BE  PAID  IN  ADVANOB,  and  cannot  be  received  for  a  less  period  tfasa 
TWELVE  MONTHS.  If  no  remittance  is  received  after  the  dispatch  of  the  last  number  subsoribed  for, 
it  will  be  understood  that  they  are  to  be  discontinued. 

BUBBORIPTIOMB  MAY  OOMMEMOS  AT  ANY  DATS. 

A  SELECTION   OF  MAGAZINE  VOLUMES 

OFFERED  AT  ORBATL7  REDUCED  PRICES  BT 

W.      H.       SMITH      &      SON, 

186,  STRAND,  LONDON, 

And  at  the  RaiUoay  BookitalU,  to  wMekplaee$  they  wiU  he  forwarded  earria^frm. 

THE  BOOKS  ARE  NEW  AS  PUBLISHED.  '■««*^  «*«• 

•,4.  i>i 

OBNTURT  liAGAZINB,  The.    Vol.  30       8    6    ...   S  < 

LONDON  BOOIBTT.    2  volt,  for  1891         15    0    ...   I  f 

a  voli.  for  1892         „.  16    0    ...   I  • 

OASSBLL'S  liAGAZINB.    Vol.  for  December,  1808,  to  May,  1899.    lUuitrated ...  1  • 

Vol.  for  Jane  to  November,  1899.    lUastrated       ...   S  « 

Vol.  for  December,  1899,  to  May,  1900          ...   >  < 

OHAMBBRS'S  JOURNAL  of  POPULAR  LITBRATURB,  SOIBNOB,  and  ARTS.    VoL  for  1892 9    0    .»   1  I 

Vol.  for  1896 9  0  «.  S  • 

Vol.  for  1898 9  0  «.  I  • 

Vol.  for  1899 9  0  ...  I  • 

QUIVBR  VOLUMB.    November.  1897.  to  April,  1898 ^  ,..   S  « 

November,  1898,  to  April.  1899 ^.  ...   I  • 

May  to  October.  1899          ...   J  « 

GOOD  WORDS.    VoU.  for  1888, 1892. 1894. 1895.  1897,  and  1808        7    6    ...   >  « 

SUNDAY  MAGAZINB.     Volt,  for  1889. 1892, 1894, 1896,  and  1898 ••...>• 


W.  H.  SMITH  k  SON'S  SUBSCRIPTION  LIBRART.  186,  STRAND,  LONDON. 

And  at  over  600  Railway  Bookttallt.  to  which  placet  Subtoribert  can  be  trantferred,  free  of  9hu§^ 
ProsjMCtut  of  Ttrvu,  Ste..  tent/r§e  upon  application  to  186,  HTBAND,  LONDON. 

Printed  hj  JOHN  BDWARD  FRANCIS.  ▲UMncnm  Prat*.  Bream't  RoUdian.  Chaaoerjr  Lane.  B.a  t  ua4  raMMMi  tr 
JOHN  G.  FRAMOU  tt  Bream't  BalldlBgi.  OhMflwy  Lm^TZu.— AM«nlsV.  Jmm  91,  IM. 


VotM  and  Qneriet,  July  37, 1901 


INDEX. 


NINTH   SERIES.— VOL.  VII. 


[For  olMsifiad  artiolet,  im  Ahohtxous  Works,  Bibuoorapht,  Books  riokntlt  pububhbd,  Editobiil,  BpraRiMS, 
Epitaphs,  Folk-lobi.  Huulldbt,  Obituabus,  Pbotbbbs  ahd  Phrasis,  Quotatioks,  Shakkspbarluia,  and 
8oH«s  AHD  Ballads.] 


A.  (M.)  on  author  of  lines  on  a  skoU,  348 
A.  (W.  W.)  on  Catherine  Street  Theatre,  268 

Location  of  theatre,  268 
Abbeys,  ooonty,  327,  455 
AbboU  (George),  M.P.  for  Tamworth,  1640-9,  and  his 

namesake,  36 
Abbot  of  Westminster's  plot.  1399,  84,  197 
Aberdeen,  Annals  of,  1617,  list  of  names  in,  486 
Aberdeen,  Grey  Friars  Charoh,  285 
AcaoiA  in  Freemasonry,  9,  112,  213,  497 
Accent,  English,  and  etymology,  15 
Aoervation,  the  custom  of,  485 
Achill  Island,  history  and  derivation  of  the  word,  86, 

188,  171,  254 
Actors,  Jewish,  289 
Adams  (F.)  on  an  American  invasion,  293,  413 

**  Ance  mariole  '*  in  a  charter,  its  meaning,  250 

Anyone :  Everyone,  294,  432 

Billycock  hat,  125 

Bishopric  of  Mons  Maranus,  250 

BocaChica,  154 

Botanical  christening,  87 

**  Bull  and  Last,"  its  meaning,  411 

Callards,  its  meaning,  455 

Canouse,  its  meaning,  412 

Churmagdes,  its  meaning,  112 

Date  wanted,  237,  298 

Hago^  its  meaning,  478 

Jeber's  cooks,  238 

Leffhom,  110 

Mi3t  and  hop  substitutes,  215 

Munsie,  its  meaning,  295 

"  Qui  Vive  r  336 

Bouen  and  succedaneum,  their  origin,  214,  816, 
453 

SkiUy,  216 

**  Under  weigh,"  89 

Wabbling,  its  derivation,  272 
Addy  (S.  O.)  on  carol,  its  meaning,  407 

Gavelage  and  jnllar  tax,  81, 141 

Pews  annexed  to  houses,  388 

St.  CHle8*8  Church,  Northampton,  867 
Albert  the  Good,  use  of  the  phrase,  88 
Aldenham  (Lord)  on  D'Auvergne  fiunily,  516 

Fimfulla,  51 

Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  nftmes,  495 
Aldus  on  Pope's  *  Dunciad,'  849 


Ale :   lanted,   its   meaning,    75,  157 ;   bottled,    its 

invention,  287,  412,  514 
Alewife=an  American  fish,  its  etymology,  406 
Alexander  I.  of  Russia,  English  representative  at  the 

funeral  o^  447,  495 
Alexander  (E.  J.)  on  author  of  hymn  wanted,  188 
Alger  (J.  G.)  on  Voltaire's  ohuroh,  466 
Almanack,  Bijou,  207,  872 
Alsopp  (Greorge),  his  biography,  29 
'  Ambrose  Gwinett,'  a  drama,  105 
Amen,  the  Dresden,  87»  171>  215 
America :  Chinese  disoovery  of,  129 ;   genealoffioal 
research  in,  244,  350 ;  England  and  Scotland  re- 
produced in,  471 
American  on  "  Knights  of  the  Moon,"  165 

Losses  in  the  American  Civil  War,  182 

Roman  Catholic  records,  389 
American  Civil  War,  regimental  losses  in,  132 
'  American  Husbandry,'  name  of  the  author  of,  508 
American  orthography,  6,  227,  293,  358,  418 
Americana,  427 

"  Ance  mariole  "  in  a  oharter,  47»  95,  250 
Ancestors,  soldier,  303 
Anderson  (J.  L.)  on  Arbuthnott,  458 

D'Auvergne  family,  177,  251 

Hawok,  its  meaning,  13 

WaUaoe  (George),  514 
Anderson  (P.  J.)  on  Canadian  boat-song,  368,  512 

*  Captain  Clutterbuck's  Champagne,'  478 

'  Paddle  your  own  Canoe,'  its  author,  414 

Thomson  (Kev.  Robert),  LLD.,  289 
Andorra,  <  Whitaker '  on,  326 
Andrews  (W.)  on  flogging  at  the  cart  tail,  214 

Hone  (William).  408 

Hull  saying,  445 

Introduction  of  the  episoopal  wig,  887 
*Ane  Example  Booke  as  FoUowis^  1617,*  author  of 

verses  m,  228,  315,  358,  374,  515 
Angier,  Anger,  or  Aungier  faoiily,  18 
Anglo-Hebrew  slang :  kybosh,  188,  276,  416 
Angus  (G.)  on  arms  of  fifootland,  452 

Bishop  of  London's  funeral,  154,  355 

Five  o'clock  tea,  when  introduoed,  18 

Lotus  flowers  and  lotahs,  472 

Margery,  38 

Mttller  (Max)  and  Westminster  Abber*  88 

Viva,  18 


522 


INDEX. 


Notes  and  Queriet,  July  27.  IMI 


Animals  in  India,  luperetitions  relatinflf  to,  225 

Axon  (W.    E.    A.)  on  cannibalism    of  Etfane  i 

Animals  in  people^s  inaides,  222,  332,  390 

Dread,  266 

*  Annals  of  Aberdeen,  1 617/  list  of  names  in,  486 

Coco  de  mer  or  double  coco-nut,  417 

Anonymous  Works  :— 

Couvade,  507 

Ethiopic  '  History  of  the  Blessed  Men,'  21 

DevU's  Walk,  268 

Intemperance,  war,  pestilence,  and  famine,  39( 

Gospel  of  Labour,  88 

<*  Le  treoente  cariche,"  234 

Letters  from  India  and  Kashmir,  309 

Tiizard  folk-lore,  67 

NarraiiTe  of  the  life  and  Astonishing  AdTenturee 

Patmore  and  Swedenborg,  411 

of  John  Daniel,  1751,609 

"Power  of  the  dog,"  106 

Travels  and  Adventures  of  William  Bingfield, 

1753.  509 

Hebrews,  145 

Troth  of  GUbert  k  BeckeU,  349,  437 

Shakespeare,  the  knavish,  and  Rabelais,  162 

Voyages  and  Travels  issued  anonymously,  227 

Wine  in  the  early  Christian  Church,  4,  170 

Whist,  its  History  and  Practice,  348 

B.  on  John  Garratt,  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  447 

Anvil-strikiDg,  reference  to,  by  Bums,  72 

Nottingham  and  Notts,  47 

Anyone :  Everyone,  the  words,  206,  294,  358,  432 

K  (A.)  on  lines  on  Queen  Victoria,  510 

Apostle  qpoons,  350,  410 

B.  (B.)  on  Ralegh's  signature,  158 

B.  (C.  A.)  on  <  The  Gospel  of  Labour,'  88 

B.  (C.  C.)  on  acacia  in  Freemasonry,  112 

Apothecaries  of  London,  Society  o^  347 

Apparition,  267,  430 

Apperson  (G.  L.)  on  morning  glory,  a  flower,  292 

Animals  in  people's  insides,  S33 

Thackeray's  bed  books,  134 
Arabs  and  odd  numbers,  225 

Anyone  :  Everyone,  294,  358 

Author  of  verses  wanted,  615 

Arbuthnot  (Mrs.  Charles),  her  maiden  name,  328 

Bandylegged  =  knock-kneed,  265 

Arbuthnot  (Mrs  ),  miniature  of,  187,  281,  298 

"Belongs  with,"  318 

Arbuthnott^  derivation  of  the  name,  368,  458 

Blackheads,  253 

Arehiteots,  Jewish,  in  the  Middle  Ages,  189 

Book  of  Common  Prayer,  193 

Ardiiteeture,  books  on,  29,  94 

CanoQse,  its  meaning,  329 

Argine  on  caendo=cercando,  147 

Chaucer,  doubtful  passages  in,  190 

Origin  of  current  phrases,  58 

Detached  sheet,  433 

Aristotle  on  a  fly,  449 

Disguise  of  man  as  woman,  368 

Aries,  the  Kingdom  of,  and  the  Empire,  165 

English  accent,  15 

Armstrong  (B.  B.)  on  Irish  harps.  228 
Armstrong  (T.  P.)  on  books  on  Eaev,  485 

Fox  names,  78 

Friday  superstition,  412 

Ships  of  war  on  land,  296 

Gipsy  wedding,  45 

Towns  which  have  changed  their  sites,  417,  492 

Huitson  family,  314 

Arnold  (Matthew),  his  descent,  76 

Journalistic  errors,  230 

Amott  (8.)  on  orientation  and  Uie  exigencies  of  con- 

"Lady of  the  mere,"  396 

troversy,  503 

"  Lanted  ale,"  75 

Whitgift*s  Hospital,  Croydon,  178,  358 

Men  wearing  earrings,  192 

Arrand  and  Darrand  surnames,  their  derivation,  75 

Messiter  surname,  29 

Artists*  mistakes,  423,  471 

Modern  books,  their  inconveniences,  427 

Arundel,  derivation  of  the  place-name,  28,  155,  336 

Morning  glory,  a  flower,  209 

Ashbee  (H.  S.),  portrait  of,  347 

Morris  (William)  as  a  man  of  business,  54 

Ashbumham  House,  Westminster,  forecourt  at,  125 

Nunty,  its  meaning,  291 

Asheton  (William),  his  biography,  8 

Nursery  rimes,  18 

Ashwood  family,  429 

Astarte  on  the  Empire  and  the  Kingdom  of  Aries,  165 

Odd  numbers,  227 

Questing  beast,  234 

Cricket,  early  lines  on,  195 

St.  Patrick's  Day,  271 

English  gravestones,  Minorca,  45 

Shakespeare,  the  knavish,  255 

Samplers,  467 

Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  394 

Steere,  a  &mily  name,  291 

Viva,  its  meaniog,  115 

Atte,  use  of  the  word  in  medisdval  records,  388,  474 

Whom = home,  286 

*AttQr.  Acad.' =  'Attumeyes  Academic,' 68,  198,  392, 

B.  (C.  J.)  on  motto  for  laundry  porch,  68 

519 

B.  (E.)  on  dual  number  in  provincial  Gemian,  449 

Atwater  (A.)  on  fire-fimged,  its  meaning,  350 

Palestinian  Syriac  interrogative,  105 

Atwood  fiEunily,  93 

Auld  (Thomas)  on  broken  on  the  wheel,  387 

B.  (G.  F.  B.)  on  George  Alsopp,  29 

Carlyle  on  "  mosUy  fools,"  359 

Asheton  (William),  8 

Living  in  three  centuries,  314 

Auterac  (Joseph),  8 

Whitman's  hexameters,  246 

B.  (G.  F.  R.)  on  T.  and  J.  G.  Butcher,  109 

Wordsworthiana,  42 

Colman  (Edmund  Craven),  109 

Austin  (Alfred),  Poet  Laureate,  his  birthplace,  426 

Columbaria,  ancient  dove  or  pigeon  ootas,  15 

Auterac  (Joseph),  his  biography,  8 

Duke  of  Bolton's  Regiment,  98 

Author  and  reference  wanted,  195 

Fortune  (F.  N.  R  V.  B.).  148 

Awdry  (T.)  on  crong,  its  meaning,  433 

Foster  (John  Edward),  148 

Kotes  and  QnerlM,  Jaly  37, 1901. 


INDEX. 


523 


B.  (O.  F.  R.)  on  Richard  FothergiU,  167 
FoulisiJ.),  148 
Fox  (John  Fox),  167 
Foy  (John),  187 
Granges  (George),  69 
Grant  (Lewis),  47 
Greatorex  (John  Anthony),  47 
Greaves  (George  Gk>ldiDg),  69 
Lyme  Regis,  58 
Morier  (James  Justinian),  129 
B.  (H.)  on  Cambridge  XJniyersity  in  the  seyenteenth 
century,  480 
Crosier  and  pastoral  staff,  495 
Knox  (Rey.  John),  1787,  888 
B.  (H.  J.)  on  funeral  cards,  88 

Municipal  coincidences,  516 
B.  (J.)  on  *  The  Tribal  Hidage,'  441 
B.  (J.  A.)  on  paulie,  its  meaning,  257 
B.  (J.  J.)  on  the  Great  Exhibition,  288 
B.  (J.  P.)  on  Jacques  Carder's  voyage  of  1534,  409 
Parr  (John).  Mayor  1773,  149 
Watson  (Dr.  Forbes),  854 
B.  (M.)  on  *'  Unted  ale,"  157 
B.  (R.)  on  Mrs.  Arbuthnot,  231 
Boca  Chica,  155 
Bottled  ale,  its  invention,  287 
Columbaria,  ancient  dove  or  pigeon  cotes,  216 
Curtana,  213 
Fraser  (Simon),  192 
Installation  of  a  midwife,  852 
Surnames,  271 
Suwarroff  and  Mass^na,  213 
B — r  (R.)  on  animals  in  people*^  insides,  891 
Bandy-legged = knock-kneed,  255 
Become,  its  meaning,  277 
Vulgar  misuse  of  •*  right,"  271 
B.  (T.   W.)  on  Duke  of  Wellinjy;ton*s  census  paper, 

1851,  265 
B.  (W.)  on  petering,  its  derivation,  29 
B.  (W.  C.)  on  aoervation,  485 
Age  of  matriculation,  117 
*  Ambrose  Gwinett,'  a  drama,  106 
Animals  in  people*8  insides,  333 
Area  of  churchyards,  171 
Bibliography  of  Easter,  264 
Burke  on  Malvern,  68 
Butty,  its  meaning,  51 
Changes  in  country  life,  147 
Comb = cockade,  206 
Corpse  on  shipboard,  137 
Crowned  heads,  248 
"  Crying 'notchelV"  74 
Damask  linen :  St  George,  446 
Detached  sheet,  11 
Friar's  Crag,  Derwentwater.  196 
Huitson  family,  218 
JowetVs  little  garden,  512 
Kyrie  Bleison,  505 

Lamb  (CJharles)  and  *  The  Champion,'  12 
Lines  on  a  skull,  456 
May  Day  and  May  butter  in  1490,  345 
May-water,  its  meaning,  276 
Medallion  on  jug,  95 
Morris  (William)  as  a  man  of  business,  54,  172, 

481 
'  Notes  and  Queries,'  48 


B.  (W.  C.)  on  nunty,  its  meaning,  194 
Parrot  in  '  Hudibras,'  292 
"  Power  of  the  dog,"  172 
Quotations,  74 
Rutter  family,  148 
*'  Same  stream,"  506 
Shoehomed,  its  meaning,  894 
Source  of  quotation,  292 

'*  To  join  issue,"  its  meaning,  405 
Whitgift's  Hospital,  Croydon,  178 

1796,  26 
Baily  (J.)  on  Boca  Chica,  place-name,  69 
Baldook  (G.  Y.)  on  Eton  College  and  ram  hunting,  95 

Yeomanry  records,  216 
Ball  (F.  E.)  on  Serjeant  Bettesworth,  198 
Ballywhaine,  its  meaning  and  etymology,  35 
Bftmburgh  (W.  C.)  on  curtsey-benders,  itn  meaning, 

287 
Bandy-legged = knock-kneed,  124,  255,  476 
Banquet  of  spring  onions  at  Bourne,  Lincolnshire,  447 
Barbandt  or  Barbant  (Charles),  organist,  1764,  87 
Barclay- Allardyce  (R.)  on  colpeara,  its  meaning,  249 
Barclays  of  Mathers,  309,  412 
Barker  (W.  R.)  on  petition  to  Parliament,  12 
Bams,  mediaeval  tithe,  93,  191 
Barrister,  the  first  lady,  205 
Barry  (Dr.  James),  her  biography,  448,  516 
Barted :  to  hart,  as  a  verb,  165,  287 
Baskinn,  268 
Batson  (H.  M.)  on  John  Broom,  of  Poole,  48 

Clifford:  Mortimer:  Waller,  208 

Marylebone  Cemetery,  109 

Mortimer  family,  408 

Waller  family,  129 

Williams  (Griffith),  27 

Williams's  (Major)  voyage  to  Canada  in  1776,  112 
Battle,  pitched,  definition  of  a,  32 
Battledore,  game  of,  469 
Baxter  (Richard),  book  by,  326 
Bayard,  name  for  a  horse,  106,  869,  477 
Bay  ley  (A.  R.)  on  Brasenose  College,  Oxford,  92,  285 

Crowned  heads,  315 

Douglas  (Sir  James),  94 

Edward.  Prince  of  Wales,  1453-7,  49 

Henry  VIL,  256 

Silhouettes  of  children,  412 

Steward  (Sir  Simeon),  434 
Bayne  (T.)  on  allusion  in  Wordsworth,  888 

Bellman,  the,  376 

"Belongs  with,"  148 

<*  Better  to  have  loved  and  lost,"  125 

Burns's '  Tarn  Glen,'  46 

Campbells  of  Ardkioglass,  family  of,  298 

Carrick,  its  meaning,  893,  476 

O)mbination,  arithmetical  term,  17 

Coost,  its  meaning,  445 

Disraeli's  letters,  166 

Doubtful  passages  in  Chaucer,  258 

Douglas  (Sir  James),  194 

English  hexameters  and  elegiacs,  321 

Grant  (Mrs.)  of  Laggan,  265 

Gutter-snipe,  its  meaning,  77 

Horses  with  four  white  stockings  toll-free,  193 

Johnson  (Dr.),  237 

Journalistic  errors,  230 

Juggins,  its  meaning,  892 


624 


INDEX. 


NotM  and  Qaeriet.  July  17. 19  01. 


Bayne  (T.)  on  Margery,  88 

Panlie,  its  meaiiioff,  257 

Fens :  nibs  and  neos,  516 

Rusticness,  5 

Bymmyll,  its  meaning,  519 

Sawney,  its  meaning,  447 

Ships  of  war  on  land,  431 

"  Sibyl  or  SyWl,"  817,  465 

Snuff,  24 

Striking  the  anvil,  72 

"Topi5mer,''52 

Utilitarian,  origin  of,  425 

Verdare,  its  meaning,  184 

Wabbling,  its  derivation,  272 

Wordsworthiana,  206 
Beadle  (William),  his  biography,  155 
Bear,  the  Russian,  origin  of  the  term,  849 
Beardshaw  (H.  J.)  on  Beardshaw  or  Bearde-shawe, 

48 
Beardshaw  or  Bearde-shawe  family,  48,  137 
Beckett  (A.)  on  *'  the  Cogelers,"  269 
Become,  use  of  the  word,  165,  277 
Been,  pronunciation  of  the  word,  189 
Beer,  poison  in,  105 

Beetenson  (W.  0.)  on  elegy  imitating  Gray's,  8 
Begbie  (A.  J.)  on  '  Ode  to  the  North  Cape,'  187 
Bell  (C.  L.)  on  Perelle's  etchings,  287 
Bell  inscription  at  Puncknowle,  Dorset,  1629,  365 
Bellingham  (A.  R.)  on  been,  189 
Belknan,  the,  75,  376 
Bell-ringing  at  wakes,  188,  294 
"  Belongs  with,"  use  of  the  term,  148,  318 
Bench = elders'  platform  in  churches,  487 
Benham  (C.  E.)  on  author  of  recitation,  287 
"  Bernardus  non  vidit  omnia  " :  "  Blind  Bayard,"  106, 

869,  477 
Berners  fiunily,  70,  253 
Berth = to  lay  down  floor-boards,  505 
Betham-Ed wards  (M.)  on  'American  Husbandry,'  its 

author,  508 
Bethlem,  official  name  of  the  hospital,  505 
Bettesworth  (Seijeant  Richard),  his  biography,  127, 

198 
Bible  :  <*  A  still  small  voice,"  1  Kings  xix.  12,  5 ; 
Psalm  xxiL  20, "  The  power  of  the  dog,"  106, 172, 
373  ;  use  of  the  word  prospect  in  the  Authorized 
Version,  486 
"  Bible,  Crown,  and  Constitution,"  sign,  469 

Bibliography : — 

Architecture,  29,  94 

Kaster,  264 

English  oratory,  427 

Lally-Tolendal,  303 

Manners,  deportment,  and  etiquette,  388 

'  Pilgrim's  Progress,'  first  edition,  264,  269 

Pope*s  <  Danciad,*  349 

Universal  history,  488 

University  of  Cambridge,  388,  480 

Yeomanry,  12,  34,  216 
Biddell  (A.)  on  royal  standard,  108 
Bideford,  fortune-telling  at,  366 
'Bijou  Almanack,'  207,  872 
Bijou  as  a  Christian  name,  48,  137 
BUlycook  hat,  etymoloey  of  the  word,  125 
Bishopric  of  Mons  Maranus,  208,  250 


Bishop's  Head  and  Foot  at  Penwith,  Cornwall,  409,471 
Blaok  (A.  &  C.)  on  shuttles,  its  meaning,  477 
Black  (W.  6.)  on  John  Stewart  Kipling,  of  Fonival's 
Inn,  48 

Owen  (Robert),  of  New  Lanark,  9 

Stewart  (Rev.  James  HaldaaeX  88 

Tapping  and  tipping,  387 

Tithe,  its  origin,  286 
Black  (William),  beaoon  in  memorial  o^  446 
Blackheads,  use  of  the  word,  169,  858 
Blackie  &  Son  on  '  The  Two  Dncheane,'  471 
Blaokfriars,  the  order,  bridge^  and  theatre,  40 
Blackstrap,  origin  of  the  woid,  88 
Blanket  fiunily  of  Bristol,  68,  155 
Blashill  (T.)  on  carriages  v.  padc-saddles,  92 
Blessing  of  the  throats,  196,  317 
Bligh  (Gen«»l),  his  biography,  166 
Bl<Md  as  a  prophylactic,  509 
Blue  Beard,  supposed  ori^iinal  of;  224,  355 
Bob-haw,  use  of  the  inteijecttoot  232 
Boca  Chica,  origin  of  the  name,  69, 154,  312 
Boddington  (R.  S.)  on  Browne  fiuidly,  480 

Grivignoe  (Baron)  and  Power,  409 
Bologna,  a  Soots  heiress  as  a  reduse  in,  488 
Bolt,  miraculous,  near  Limoges,  46 
Bolton  (Duke  of),  his  regiments,  52,  98 
Bonaparte  ballad,  193,  295,  434 
Bontemps  (Biadame),  1718-68,  portrait  o(  169,  274 
Book  for  children,  47 

Book  of  Common  Prajer,  reprint  o^  126,  198 ;  N.  or 
M.  in,  367  ;  Mommg  and  Evening  Prayer  only, 
409  ;  Latin  versions,  474 
Book,  the  best,  of  the  nineteenth  oentory,  23 
Books,  modem,  their  inconveniences,  427 
Books  on  manners,  deportment,  and  etiquette,  388, 516 

Books  recently  published  :— 

Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  of  England,  voL  xxL, 

edited  by  J.  R.  Dasent,  139  ;  vols.  xxiL-zxiiL 

478 
Baddeley's  (J.  J.)  Aldermen  of  Cripplegata  Ward 

from  1276  to  1900,  419 
Baildon's  (H.  B.)  Robert   Louis  Stevenson :  a 

life  Study  in  Criticism,  289 
Benenden  lietters,  London,  Country,  and  Abroad, 

1753-1821,  edited  by  C.  F.  Hardy,  369 
Beowulf,  and  the  Fight  at  Finnsbnigh,  translated 

by  J.  R.  C.  HaU,  479 
Besant's  (Sir  W.)  East  London,  258 
Bourinot's  (Sir  J.  G.)  Canada  under  British  Role, 

1760-1900,  159 
Browne's  (H.)  Triglot  Dictionary  of  Scriptoial 

Representative  Words,  340 
Burke's  (Sir  B.)  Genealogical    and    Hjstcrioal 

Dictionary  of  the  Peerage  and  Baronetsfe, 

edited  by  A.  P.  Burke,  19 
Byegones  relating   to  Wales   and    the  Border 

Counties,  260 
Calendar  of  the  Inner  Temple  Records,  edited  by 

F.  A.  Inderwick,  389 
Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls:  Edward  L  1292- 

1307— Edward  IL  1307-1818,  419 
Campbell's  (J.  G.)  Superstitions  of  ths  ^^i^^^i 

and  Islands  of  Sootland»  198 
Cicero,  Letters  of,  trans,  by  E.  a  SkaokbvA 

140 


■otot  ud  QiMriw,  Jnly  31,  ISOl. 


INDEX. 


525 


Book!  recently  publiehed  :— 

Cl«rgy  DireoUNry  Mid  Pariah  Guide  for  1901,  59 
CkMrbett's  (J.  a)  The  SooceMon  of  Drake^  98 
Cowper  Anthology,  ed.  E.  Arber,  479 
Cromwell  (Oliver)^  Speeohee  of,  edited  by  C.  L. 

Stainer,  299 
DaQze*8  (P.)  Index  Bibliographiqoe^  118 
Day's  (B.)  Social  Life  of  the  Hebrews,  859,  518 
Debrett's  Peerage  and  Titles  of  Courtesy,  20 
Drapers  (W.  H.)  Alfred  the  Great,  279 
Dunbar  Anthology,  ed.  E.  Arber,  479 
Earle's  (J.)  The  Alfred  Jewel:    an  Historioal 

Essay,  459 
English  Catalogue  of  Books  for  1900,  220 
English    Dictionary.      8ee    Higtorkal    Bngluk 

3ietionary, 
English  Miscellany,  presented  to  Dr.  FamivaU 

in  honoar  of  his  Seventy-fifth  Birthday,  189 
Fergusons  (J.)  Some  Aspects  of  Bibliography, 

820 
Fitzmaurioe's  (Lord  Edmond)  Charles  William 

Ferdinand,  Doke  of  Brunswick,  1785-1806, 800 
Frazer*s  (J.  G.)  The  Golden  Bough  :  a  8tudy  m 

Magic  and  Religion,  79 
Gardiner's  (S.  R)  Histcory  of  the  Commonwealth 

and  Protectorate,  1649-1660,  218 
Gierke's  Political  Theories  of  the  Middle  Ages, 

translated  by  F.  W.  Maitland,  899 
Gilchrist's   (J.    G.)   Itinerary    of  the    English 

Cathedrals,  ed.  by  the  Re?.  T.  Perkins,  520 
Gompers's  (T.)  Greek  Thinkers,  259 
Gooch's  (G.  P.)  Annals  of  Politics  and  Culture,  819 
Grant's  (A.  J.)  The  French  Monarchy,   1488- 

1789,  179 
Gross's  (C.)  Sources  and  Literature  of  English 

History  from  the  Earliest  Times  to  about  1485, 

100 
Harbottle  (T.  B.)  and  Dalbiac's  (P.    H.)  Dic- 
tionary of  Quotations  (French  and  Italian),  239 
Headley'^s  (F.  W.)  Problems  of  EToiution,  19 
Heckedom's  (C.  W.)  London  Memories,  Social, 

Historical,  Topographical,  219 
Historical  English  Dictionary,  78, 188,  298 
History  of  Early  Italian  Literature  to  the  Death 

of  Dante,  translated  by  Herman  Oelmer,  140 
Inquisitions  and  Assessments  relating  to  Feudal 

Aids,  1284-1481,  519 
Jessopp's  (A.)  Before  the  Great  Pillage,  and  other 

Miscellanies,  500 
Johnson's  (Dr.)  Table-Talk,  59 
Journal  of  the  Anthropologioal  Institute,  860 
Keller'H  (Prol  D.  C.)   Madagascar,  Mauritius, 

and  the  other  East  African  Islands,  159 
Lawrence's  (J.  M.)  Notes  on  Dan  and  Scorpio 

and  Sagittarius,  860 
Le  Dix-neuTi^me  Si^e,  99 
Ldningen-Westerburg's  (Karl  Kmich,  Count  zu), 

German  Book-plates,  translated  by  G.  RaTens- 

croft  Dennis,  458 
Lorris  (W.)  and  Clopinel's  (J.)  The  Romance  of 

the  Roee,  Englished  by  F.  S.  Ellis,  88 
Marriage  Registers  of  St  Dunstan's,  Stepney, 

edited  by  T.  Colyer-Fergusson,  259 
Mind  of  the  Century,  reprinted  frx>m  the  *  Daily 

Chronicle,'  219 
Old  Engliah  GIomks,  edited  by  A.  S.  Napier,  58 


Book!  recently  publiihed  :— 

Fhillippe's  (E.  M.)  Frescoes  in  the  Siztine  Chapel, 

820 
PhiUipe's  (M.)  The  Token  Money  of  the  Bank  of 

England,  1797-1816,  499 
Pipers  (K)  Church  Towers  of  Somersetshire,  440 
Plomer's  (H.  R.)  A  Short  History  of  English 

Printing,  1478-1898,  59 
Rhys's  (J.)  Oltio  Folk-lore :  WeUh  and  Manx, 

158 
Richardson's  (R.)  Coutts  ft  Co.,  Banken,  Edin- 

burgh  and  London,  260 
Ridgeway's  ( W.)  The  Eariy  Age  of  Greece,  489 
Robeon's  (P.   A.)   Cathedral  Church  of   Saint 

Darid's,  440 
Russell's  (Lady)  Swallowfield  and  its  Owners,  498 
St  Clair's  (G.)  Myths  of  Greeoe  Explained  and 

Dated,  278 
Shakespeare :  Julius  Cnsar — Two  Gentlemen  of 

Yerona,  notes  by  John  Dennis,  69  ;  The  First 

Part  of  King  Henry  IV.— The  Second  Part  of 

King  Henry  IV.,  notes  by  John  Dennis,  220 ; 

Shakespeare's  family,  by  Stopes,  818 
Skeat's  ( W.  W.)  Concise  Etymological  Dictionary 

of  the  English  Language,  418 
Stocker's  (R.  D.)  The  Language  of  Handwriting, 

180 
Stopes's  (C.  C.)  Shakespeare's  FamUy,  818 
Swift's  (J.)  Journal  to  Stella,  edited  by  G.  A» 

Aitken,  878 
Thomson  (James),  Poems  of,  edited  by  W.  Bayne^ 

820 
Voyages  of  the  Elizabethan  Seamen  to  America, 

edit«l  by  K  J.  Payne,  118 
Warner's  (R.  T.)  Windiester,  220 
Wellington's  (Duchess  of)  Deecripti?e  and  His- 
torioal Catalogue  of  the  Colleotion  of  Picturea 

and  Sculpture  at  Apsley  House,  898 
Wendell's  (B.)  A  Literary  History  of  America, 

179 
Weston's  (J.  L.)  Legend  of  Sir  Lancelot  du  Lao, 

519 
Whitaker's  Peerage  for  the  Tear  1901, 180 
<  Book-World,'  by  James  Macfarlane,  177,  275 
Borrajo  (E.  M.)  on  troy  weight  for  bread,  18 
Boston  local  records,  428 
Boswell  V.  Johnson,  285 
Boewell  (R.  B.)  on  SooU  query,  510 
Botanical  christening,  a,  87 
Bouohier  (J.)   on   "Bemardus  non   rldit  omnia "Jt 

**  Blind  Bayard,"  477 
Boulmier  (Joeeph).  848 
Bussy  (Ernest),  449 

*  Child's  Own  Book,' 877 
English  oratory,  427 
Fontenoy,  the  42nd  at,  878 
Funeral  cards,  332 

*  Kathleen  MaToumeen,'  888 
May-water,  893 
Shuttles,  its  meaning,  407 
Smoking  a  cobbler,  509 

<  Troth  of  GUbert  k  Beckett,'  487 

Troubadour  and  daisy,  456 
Boudcault  (D.)  on  Jean  le  Manique,  867 
Bougte :  buggies,  use  of  the  name^  148,  875 
Boulder  stones,  27,  186 


526 


INDEX. 


NotM  and  Quertot,  July  27, 1901. 


Boulroier  (Joseph),  his  pablicationB,  348,  415 
Bourbon  (Margaret  of),  date  of  ber  birth  and  marriage, 

55,  111,  251 
Bourne,  Lincohishire,  spring  onions  at,  447 
Box  family  of  Torluhire,  328 
Box  (J.)  on  Box  &mily  of  Yorkshire,  328 
Brabazon  (Sir  Anthony),  his  biography,  228,  318 
Bradford  token,  408 
Bradley  (H.)  on  lattermint,  207 
Bramble  (J.  R.)  on  moon  lore,  96 
Brandreth  fiunily,  168 

Bnsenose  College,  Oxford,  founder  of,  92,  157,  235,298 
Brawling  in  places  of  worship,  227,  252 
Brazen-soft,  177 
Bread,  troy  weight  for,  18,  90 
Breckenridge  family,  247,  318,  415 
Breckenridge  (J.  M.)  on  Breckenridge  &mily,  247 
Breslar  (M.  L.  K.)  on  Arabs  and  odd  numbers,  225 

Arnold  (Matthew),  76 

Jew  and  Israelite,  86 

8himmozzel,  10 

Wabbling,  168 
Bright  (John)  or  'Cranford.'  93,  154 
Brillat-Savarin  and  Fielding,  248 
British  lion,  origin  of  the  term,  349 
Brocas  :  Weekes  :  Catlin,  267 
Bromby  (B.  H.)  on  detached  sheet,  295 
Bronte  topography,  469 
Broom  (John),  of  Poole,  and  Capt  Cook,  48 
Browne  f«mily,  389,  480 

Browning  (Robert),  his  <  Pied  Piper  of  Hamelin,*  148 
Bruoe  (Michael)  and  Robert  Bums,  466 
Brusbfield  (J.  N.)  on  broken  on  the  wheel,  196 

Kalegh*B  signature,  191 
Brushfield  (T.  N.)  on  carrick,  208 

Flogging  at  the  cart  tail,  214 
Bubb  (T.)  on  motto  on  sundial,  467 
Buck  (Adam),  1759-18S3,  artist,  his  biography  and 

works,  361,  472 
'*BuU  and  Last,"  tavern  sign,  128,  254,  331,  411 
Buller  pedigree,  354 
Bulley  (H.  A.)  on  Blanche  Fane,  308 
Bullfight,  mock,  on  Christmas  Eve,  246 
Bulloch  (J.  M.)  on  regiment  that  declined  to  go  to 
India,  329 

h)cots  heiress  as  a  recluse  in  Bologna,  488 
Bunyan  (John),  early  edition  of  *  Pilgrim*s  Progress  ' 

in  French,  167,  312  ;  first  edition,  264,  269 
Burghclere  (Lord)  on  three  Estates  in  Parliament,  9 
Burke  on  Malvern,  68 
Burnham  family,  287,  455 

Bums  (Robert),  RUnza  in   'Tam  Glen,'   46;   book 
belonging  to,   66 ;   lines    by,   125  ;   and    Michael 
Bruce,  466 
Burnt  offering,  continual,  408,  476 
Burton  (Simon),  M.D.,  d.  1744,  his  biography,  466 
Bussy  (Ernest),  ^wIhs  poet,  his  biography,  449 
Butcher  (Thomas),  his  biography,  109 
Butler  (J.  D.)  on  Aristotle  on  a  fly,  449 

"  Fall  below  par,*'  488 

Ipplepen,  co.  Devon,  473 

Rouen  and  Buooedaneum,  their  meaning,  453 

Shakespearian  allusion,  69 

Title  of  <fi.E.D.,*  436 
Butler  (S.),  parrot  in  '  Hudibras,*  292 
Buttons,  counting  another's,  15,  236 


Butty,  dialect  word,  51 
Byfield  family,  129,  2S4 
Byron  (Lord),  his  poem  on  Greece,  328,  475  ;  a  son 

of;  208 
C.  on  marriage  custom :  Gretna  Green,  408 

Raven^  of  St.  Eustatius,  family  of,  308 
C.  (A.  D.)  on  Worcestershire  folk-lore,  54 
C.  (D.  F.)  on  Col.  Henry  Hugh  Mitchell,  191 
C.  (E.)  on  Richard  Heme,  fiiheriff  of  London,  309 

Hopton  (Susanna),  devotional  writer,  509 

Johnson  (Robert),  Sheriff  of  London,  228 

Scudamore  (Sir  Clement),  Sheriff  of  London,  269 

Unmarried  Lord  Mayors,  428 
C.  (F.)  on  allusion  in  Wordsworth,  188 
C.  (G.  E.)  on  George  Abbott,  M.P.,  his  biograi^y,  36 

Brabazon  (Sir  Anthony),  813 

Hill  (Serjeant  George),  1716-1808,  194 

Viscountcies  without  barony,  41 

Wanen  (Sir  John  Borlase),  92 
C.  (G.  K.)  on  genealogical  research  in  America,  350 
C.  (H.)  on  Simon  Burton,  M.D.,  d.  1744,  466 

Dutton  and  Seaman  families,  513 

Eyre  (Sir  James),  1734-99,  289 

Fletcher  (Thomas),  poet,  226 

Fortescue  (Anthony),  327 

Funeral  cards,  414 

Hamley  (Edward).  RC.L.,  205 

Hankford  (Sir  William),  429 

Hatton's  (Sir  Christopher)  monument,  510 

Hawkms  (^rjeant),  154,  477 

Hill  (Serjeant  George),  1716-1808,  68 

Howley  (Archbishop),  d.  1848,  408 

Kingsman  fiunily,  493 

Lavington  (Joseph),  d.  1709,  506 

Morehead  (William),  1637-92,  829 

Petition  to  Parliament,  18 

Pococke  (Richard),  his  biography,  46 

Warren  (Sir  John  Borlase),  Bart.,  1753-1822, 15 
C.  (J.  S.)  on  the  author  of  lines  on  the  skin,  251 

Battle  of  Fontenoy,  212 
C.  (T.  W.)  on  Arandel :  Walden,  28 
Caba,  meaning  of  the  word,  85,  218 
Caendo=cercando,  147,  238 
Caesar  and  Pompey,  268 

Cffisar  (Julius),  mstances  of  the  nomenclature,  37 
Caledonianize,  uie  of  the  word  by  S.  T.  Coleridge,  5 
Calendars,  wall,  with  quotations  from  Shakespeare,  209, 

334,  478 
Callards,  its  etymology,  350,  455 
Cam,  the  river,  365 

Cambridge  and  Oxford  graduates,  lists  of,  269 
Cambridge  University  in  the  seventeenth  century,  388. 

480 
Cambridgeshire,  ornithology  o^  425 
Camden  ancestry,  14 
Campbell  (Lord  Archibald),  lines  by,  446 
Campbell  (N.  D.)  on  Campbells  of  Ardkinglass,  187 
Campbell  (Rev.  Thomas),  portrait  of,  84 
Campbell  (Thomas),  lines  by,  77 
CampbeUs  of  Ardkinglass,  187,  298,  858 
Canadian  boat-song,  368,  512 
Cannibalism  of  Ethne  the  Drwd,  266 
Canny,  sailors'  term,  its  meaning,  4S8 
Canouse,  its  meaning,  829,  412 
Cansick  (F.  T.)  on  Dame  Ann  Oombe,  188 
Cap  of  maintenance,  192 


Not«B  and  Qaeriet,  Jaly  27, 1901. 


INDEX. 


627 


Capacious  :  capacity,  806 

Capacity  :  capadous.  806 

Cape  Gaardafui,  lighthouie  at,  468 

Carlile  (W.  W.)  on  the  gold  florin,  7»  158 

Mint  price  of  gold,  127 
Carlyle  (Thomas)  on  "  mostly  fools/'  108,  859,  466 
Carol,  meaning  and  origin  of  the  word,  407 
Caroline  Park,  Edinburgh,  gates  of,  288 
Carriages  v,  pack-saddles,  92 
Carrick,  its  meaning,  208,  292,  893,  476 
Carroll  (Sir  William  F.),  1784-1862,  his  marriage,  27, 

134 
Carterly,  quotation  for  the  word,  88,  192 
Cartier  (Jacques),  his  voyage  of  1584,  409 
Cartwright   (L.  J.)  on  hmds  in  Southam  Church, 

Warwickshire,  268 
Caserta  (£1  Conde  de),  his  title,  224 
Castlemore  on  book  for  children,  47 
Catalogue  of  musical  instruments,  207 
Catalogues  of  painted  and  engraved  portraits,  341, 488, 

470,  512 
Catery,  office  of  Sergeant  of  the,  169 
Catherine  Street  Theatre,  268 
Catlin  :  Weekes :  Brocas,  267 
Cecilia     on    *'  Chevaux     orynges  '* :    "  Feuilles     de 

lattier,'*  their  meaning,  488 
Census,  Celtic  schedules  in  1901,  308 
Census  paper  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  265 
Centaur-myth,  germ  of  a  modern,  286 
Centipedes,  local  names,  266,  395 
Centuries,  living  in  three,  86,  81 4 
Century  incident,  remarkable,  105 
Chamock  (Job),  founder  of  Calcutta,  74 
Charter  conditions,  289 
Chartres  (Rev.  James),  his  biography,  447 
Chaucer,  note  on  a  passage  in  his  Prologue,  30,  95, 

175,  238,  877  ;  doubtful  passages  in,  82,  189,  257  ; 

a  lament  for,  167 
Chavasse  famUy,  48,  130,  191 
Chelsea,  VisiUtion  nuns  at,  1799,  327 
Chevaux,  sailors'  term,  its  meaning,  488 
"  Chevaux  orynges,"  its  meaning,  488 
Chevron  on  Bishopric  of  Mons  Maranus,  208 

Grenealogical  trees,  27 
Children,  book  for,  47 

*  Child's  Own  Book,'  original  compiler  of,  248,  877 
Chincherer,  its  etymology,  229,  353 
Chinese  discovery  of  America,  129 
Chisel  marks  on  worked  stones,  149,  233,  296 
Christening,  a  botanical,  87 
Christian    (6.)  on   foulrice :  lock    elm :    chincherer, 

229  ^> 

Christie  (John)  on  Earl  of  Hyndford's  daughters,  249 
Christ's  Hospital :  vanishing  London,  205,  296,  431, 

517 
Church,  wine  in   the  early  Christian,  4,   185,   170  ; 

singing  in,  265 
Churches,   London,  monuments  and  brasses  in,  169, 

278,  335  ;  the  orienUtion  of,  220,  503 
Churchyards,  area  of,  9,  112,  171 
Churmagdes,  meaning  of  the  word,  28,  112 
Cicero  on  augurs,  260 
Circles,  incised,  on  etones,  389,  491 
Cirencester,  excavations  near,  327,  398 
Citizen  on  Jewish  architects,  189 
City,  the  constitution  of  a,  228 


Clark  (R.)  on  animals  in  people's  inaidee,  382 

Hone  (William),  498 

*<  Trinity  Hall,  Aldersgate,*'  855 
Clark  (W.)  on  Lusus  naturae,  its  meaning,  418 
Clark  (W.  ^emey),  engineer,  his  papers,  308 
Clarke  (0.)  on  "  Bull  and  Last,"  254 

Lungs  of  London,  89 

Topographical  error,  7 
Clarke  (H.  E.)  on  Bonaparte  baUad,  193 
Clarke  (Mrs.  Mary  Anne),  her  biography,  109 
Clayton  (H.  B.)  on  Julius  Cnsar,  37 

D'Auvergne  family,  176 

Flogging  at  the  cart  tail,  214 

"  C^ne  to  Jericho,"  55 

Juggins,  its  meaning,  892 

Last  male  descendant  of  Daniel  Defoe,  395 

Suffolk  name  for  ladybird,  95 
Cleveland    (Duchess    of),   her  illustrations  of   'The 

Spanbh  Lady,'  485 
Clifford  family,  208 
Clifford  :  Mortimer :  Waller,  208 
Clifton  (Harry),  his  song '  Paddle  yoar  own  Canoe,' 

53,  414 
Clock  at  Antwerp,  inscription  on,  109 
Close-eyed,  use  of  the  word,  269 
Clunie  and  Cluny,  408,  471 
Cluny  and  Clunie,  408,  471 
Cluzzom  :  to  cluzzom,  its  meaning,  70 
Cochrane  (B.  A.)  on  acacia  in  Freemasonry,  112 
Cockade  of  house  of  Saxony,  149,  457 
Cockshot  on  Friar's  Crag,  Derwentwater,  129 
Coco  de  mer  or  double  coco-nut,  849,  417 
Codrington,  origin  of  the  word,  28 
Coe  (John)  and  family,  848,  453 
Cogelers,  a  Sussex  sect,  269 
Coinage,  copper,  38  ;  currency  before,  109 
Colnddenoes,  municipal,  409,  515 
Coins  :  gold  florin,  7,  153 
Coins  and  stamps,  crowned  heads  on,  248,  315 
'  Colbum's  New  Monthly  Magazine,'  contributors  to, 

49 
Cole  (Sir  Cornelius),  his  biography,  269 
Cole  (H.)  on  Great  Exhibition,  436 

Thackeray,  392 
Coleman  (E.  H.)  on  banquet  of  spring  onions,  447 

Barry  (Dr.),  517 

Blackheads,  253 

Blankets,  156 

Bontemps  (Madame),  274 

Boughs :  buffgies,  375 

Brasenose  College,  Oxford,  92 

'<  Bull  and  Last,"  128 

Byfield  family,  234 

"Capt.  Rock,"  353 

Carterly,  192 

«  ChUd's  Own  Book,'  377 

Coe  (John)  and  £unlly,  453 

Collet,  particulars  of,  393 

Cooper  (Col.  Thomas),  239 

Davenport-Hulme,  235 

Delagoa  Bay,  478 

Early  steam  navigation,  252 

Easter  Monday  at  Hallaton,  Leicestershire,  347 

Excavations  near  Cirencester,  398 

Forty-Shilling  Day,  366 

Gratitude,  its  definition.  138 


528 


INDEX. 


Notes  and  Querlet,  July  97.  IWL 


CfOlemaa  (E.  H.)  od  Grierson  of  Dablin,  163 
Hyndford's  (first  Barl  of)  daaghter,  858 
Iriili  harps,  889 

JoaD  of  Arc,  856,  472 

'  Kathleen  MaTonmeeo/  the  aathor  o^  480 

Keech,  to,  its  meaning,  18 

Lemaistre  (J.  P.).  877 

Lever  (Darcy),  173 

London  oharohes,  278 

London  taverns,  old,  154 

May-water,  its  meaning,  276 

Monkeys,  78 

'  N.  &  Q.,'  Gorrections  in  General  Indexes,  164  ; 
for  sale,  887 

Naonton  family,  54 

Nelson's  death,  411 

Nichols  (John),  his  epiUph,  232 

Official  lists,  411 

Pews  annexed  to  houses,  518 

Register  of  births  on  Tower  Hill,  397 

Roman  Catholic  records,  471 

Rose  and  Zorzi  faMuilies,  155 

Royal  standard,  853 

Rutter  fiunily,  314 

Sack  and  sagar,  298 

St.  Clement  Danes,  173 

St.  Hugh's  Day,  15 

Scanty  wedding  dress,  17 

Scudamore  (Sir  Clement),  373 

Ships  moving  without  sail  or  wind,  188 

Sisters  bearing  the  same  Christian  name,  486 

Steam  navigation,  16 

Steward  (8ir  Simeon),  484 

Ten  Commandments  in  rime,  53 

Troy  weight  for  bread,  18 

Whately's  (Archbishop)  *  Logic,'  177 
Coleridge  (S.  T.),  caledonianize,  5  ;  lines  by,  58 
Collate,  use  of  the  verb,  5 
Collet  (Humphrey),  M.P.,  1558-5,  269,  393 
CoUinson  (J.)  on  the  evil  eye,  47 
Colman  (Edmund  Craven),  his  biography,  109 
Colombia,  republic  of,  witch  superstitions  in,  866 
Colpeara^  old  custom,  249,  482 
Columbaria,  ancient  dove  or  pigeon  cotes^  15,  116, 

216,  818 
Colville  (J.)  on  carrick,  its  meaning,  292 
Comb = cockade,  206 
Combe  (Dame  Ann),  her  funily,  188 
Combination,  arithmetical  term,  17 
Comedy,  342 

Come-outers,  the,  earliest  use  of  the  term,  424 
Commandments,  the  ten,  in  rime,  53 
Commissions,  cradle,  169,  251 
Company  of  miners,  890,  497 
Complain  a  to  groan  or  creak  from  overstraining,  887 
Coningsby  (Humphrey),  of  Hampton  Court,  co.  Here- 
ford, 349 
Conner  (P.   S.  P.)  on  Governor    Haynes's  grand- 

fiftther,  415 
Convolvulus,  morning  glory,  a  variety  of,  209,  292, 417 
Cooke  (Sir  Thomas),  Alderman  of  (^ueenhithe,  1692- 

1709,  429 
Cooling  (J.  A.)  on  *  Capt  Rock,"  227 
Cooper  (A.  L.)  on  battle  of  Seetabuldee,  149 
Cooper  (CJol.  T.),  168 
Cowper  fiunily,  8 


Cooper  (George),  of  Clarendon  Park,  Wilts,  his  death, 

449 
Cooper  (CoL  Thomas),  168,  289,  853,  488 
Co-operative  trading,  growth  of  the  movement,  445 
Coost,  use  and  meaning  of  the  word,  445,  518 
Cope  (B.  B.)  on  Henry  VIL,  110 
Sergeant  of  the  Catery,  169 
Cope  (Mrs.  J.  H.)  on  Julius  Onsar,  87 

Gosssge  of  Spratton,  Northamptonshire,  70 
Irish  wills,  9 
London  churches,  169 
Mohun  of  Wollaston,  128 
Yeomanry  records,  84 
Cornish  place-names,  meaning  and  derivatioii,  488 
Oironatiun  of  Queen  Victoria,  846,  437 
Coronation  Stone  of  Westminster  Abbey,  809,  898 
Corpse  on  shipboard,  75,  187 
Corpse  superstition,  86 

Corpus  Christi  Day,  its  date,  27,  96, 158,  237,  293 
Countiy  life,  changes  in,  147 
Courtenay  (G.  H.)  on  powdering  sUppers^  488 
Surnames,  28 

Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  898 
Courtney  (W.  P.)  on  monolith  with  onp-maildngB  in 

Hyde  Paric,  292 
Couvade,  the,  reference  to,  in  the  Hebrew  romanoe 

'Alexander,' 507 
Cowper  family,  8 
Cradle  coDunissions,  169,  251 

Craig  (Gibson),  picture  of  Elizabeth  Throgmotion,  167 
Cranford'  or  John  Bri^t,  98,  154 
Craw-craw,  its  etymology,  347 
Crawford  (C.)  on  Edmund  Spenser,  '  Loorine,'  and 

*  Selimus,'  61,  101,  142,  203,  261,  824,  884 
Cresswell  (L.)  on  powdering  gowns,  874 
Suffolk  name  for  ladybtid,  96 
Surnames,  formation  of,  45,  486 
Vulgar  misuse  of  *<  right,**  896 
Cricket,  early  lines  on,  72, 195 
Criticaster  on  journalistic  errors,  128,  230 

Literary  errors,  887 
Cromwell  £unily,  88 
Cromwelliana,  481 
Orong,  use  of  the  word,  346,  488 
Crooke  (W.)  on  '  Attur.  Acad.,*  68 
Cape  Guardafni,  468 
Coco  de  mer  or  double  ooco-nat»  849 
Complain,  Its  meaning,  887 
Inam,  its  meaning,  845 
Killing  pigs  in  the  wane  of  the  moon,  98 
QuoUtioo,  27 

*  Takmi,'  an  Indian  march,  507 
Watch-chain  ornament,  85 
Crosier,  archbishop's,  its  use,  89,  154,  281,  855 
Crosier  and  pastoral  sUff.  387,  495 
Crosse  (G.)  on  Manningham  and  *  Twelfth  Nighty*  205 
Crosse  Hall,  Lancashire,  309,  414 
Crouch  (C.  H.)  on  flogging  at  the  cart  tail,  158 

Suffolk  name  for  ladybird,  896 
'*  Crown,"  the,  behind  the  Royal  Exchange,  309,  417 
Crowned  beads  on  coins  and  stamps,  248,  815 
Croydon,  Arohbishop  Whitgift's  Hospital  at,  178, 256, 

858,  450 
Crucifixion,  date  of  the,  85 

Cruttenden  (Edward  HoldenX  Depafy-Governor  of 
Cakmtta,  369 


Vot«B  and  Queries,  Jaly  37, 1901. 


INDEX. 


529 


Calloden,  regimeots  at,  24 

Cummings   (W.  H.)   on  the  author  of   '  Kathleen 
Mavoumeen,'  480 
Dreeden  Amen,  216 
Curio  collector,  Ciij,  848,  496 
Curious  on  Nell  Gwyn,  229 
Currency  before  coinage,  109 
Cuny  (J.  T.)  on  author  of  versee  wanted,  816 

**  Bemardus  non  ridit  omnia ":  "Blind  Bayard,'* 

869 
Jonaon  (Ben),  unclaimed  poem,  96 
Langua^  to  conceal  thought,  67 
"  Qui  Vive  T'*  explanation  of,  438 
Quotations,  74 

Wall  calendars  with  quotations  from  Shakespeare, 
884 
Curtana^  the,  or  sword  of  mercy  at  coronation  cere- 
mony, 187,  218 
Curtsey-henders,  origin  of  the  expression,  287 
Curwen  (A.  F.)  on  anthorship  of  lines  wanted,  77 
Friar*s  Crag,  Derwentwater,  196 
Huitson  family,  218 
Jesse  and  Selwyn,  178 
Custom,  quaint  marriage,  49, 186 
Cnstoe  00  wine  in  the  early  Christian  Church,  186 
Cyclops  on  cockade  of  house  of  Saxony,  149 

Confidential  dispatches  to  the  War  Office,  208 
D.  on  Bethlem,  606 

Capacity :  capacious,  806 
D'Auvergne  Ukmilj,  191,  277 
Delagoa  Bay,  480 
Glamis  mystery,  812 
Insurrection,  66 
King  and  Queen  equal,  160 
Malt  and  hop  rabstitutes,  160 
Mayflower  and  the  national  flag,  404 
Public  mourning,  160 
Bhododendrons  and  oleanders,  117 
Van  der  Meulen,  117 
D.  (A.;  on  the  rat  first  introduced  into  Europe,  428 
D.  (C.)  on  authors  of  books  wanted,  609 
Tuvill  (Daniel),  particulars  of,  809 
D.  (C.  B.)  on  flag  of  Bast  India  Company,  468 
D.  (G.  H.)  on  Bishop's  Head  and  Foot,  409 
D.  (J.  A.)  on  N.  or  M.  in  the  Prayer  Book,  367 
Daisy  and  troubadour,  889,  466 
Daisy  names,  derivation  o^  8,  68,  260  ;  Cornish,  428 
Dallas  (J.)  on  the  '  D.N.B^*  71 
Lotus  flowers  and  lotahs,  472 
Title  of  esquire,  83 
Damask  linen :  St.  G^eoise,  446 
Danaids,  the,  meaning  of  the  myth,  4 
Dance,  Scottish  :  Ghlllie  Galium,  6,  76 
Dance  tune  :  '  Cro  to  the  devil  and  shake  yourself  82 
Daniel  on  John  Scott,  citizen  and  Salter,  468 
Danteiana,  201,  816,  416 
Darayne,  its  meaning,  288 

D'Arcy  (S.  A.)  on  Talbot  surname  and  fiunily,  336 
Darlington  (O.  H.)  on  England  and  Scotland  repro- 
duced in  America,  471 
Darrand  and  Arrand  surnames,  their  derivation,  76 
Dashwood  (R.)  on  Sir  Anthony  Brabason,  228 
D'Auvergne  £snuly,  68,  117,  176, 191,  261,  277,  882, 

897,  616 
Davenport-Hulme   (James),   M.D.,    1772-1848,    his 
dsecendaats,  129,  285 


David  (W.  H.)  on  Sir  Robert  Peel,  207 

Davis  (M  D.)  on  shimmoszel,  10 

Davy  (A.  J.)  on  centipedes,  local  name,  896 

May-water,  893 
Day  (R.)  on  location  of  theatre,  861 
Deal,  meaning  of  the  word  in  card  games,  6 
Deale,  his  <Crockford*s ;  or.  Life  in  the  West,'  848 
Death  superstition,  Scottish,  467 
Debrett  on  dowager  peeress,  610 
Deedes  (C.)  on  animals  in  people's  insides,  891 

Book  of  Common  Prayer  in  Latin,  474 

Cricket,  early  lines  on,  72 

Hand-ruling  in  old  title-pages,  616 
Defender  of  the  Faith,  use  of  the  title,  416 
Defoe  (Daniel),  his  last  male  descendant,  8(i,  177,  297, 

896 
Dekgoa  Bay  and  Portugal,  407,  480,  478 
Demonology,  story  of  contemporary,  6 
Dendritic  markings  in  paper,  889,  477 
Denew  (James),  auctioneer,  487 
Devil's  broth,  266 

*  Devil's  Pulpit,'  by  Rev.  R.  Taylor,  209 

*  Devil's  Walk,'  by  Person  or  Coleridge  ?  268 
Dey  (E.  M.)  on  ^bakespeariana,  22,  28,  344,  846 
Dialogue  sermon,  comic,  248,  839 

Dibdin  (E.  R.)  on  Bijou  as  a  C^hristian  name,  137 
«  Let  them  all  come,"  157 
Turner  (J.  M.  W.),  166 
Dickens  (Charles) :  '*  (Solden  Cross,"  Charing  Cross, 
228  ;  the  Old  Curiosity  Shop,  609 

*  Dictionary  of  National  Biography,'  and  portraits,  24  ; 

in  country  places,  71 
Dilke  (Sir  C.  W.)  on  English-speaking,  12 
Dilke  (Lady)  on  Perelle's  etchings,  812 
Disease,  superstitious  cures  for,  104 
Disguise  of  man  as  woman,  248,  368 
Dispatches,  confidential,  in  time  of  war,  208,  260,  878 
Disraeli  (Benjamin),  his  biogn^hy,  120 ;  his  letters, 

166 
Distinct,  use  of  the  word,  206 
Dodgson  (E.  a)  on  "A  hago,"  its  meaning,  408 

Barted,166 

Baskinn,  268 

Blackheads,  169 

Boca  Chica,  166 

El  Conde  de  Csserta,  224 

English  parsimony  and  the  cat,  418 

Five  o'clock  tea,  176 

Glen  and  glene,  47 

'Kensington  Vahce,*  by  E.  Law,  86 

M.  (J.  W.),  a  painter,  187 

Personates  resound,  478 

Pinhoen,  a  ghost-word,  272 

Roker,  288 

St.  Christopher  and  kughter,  247 

Shakespeare  and  Vondel,  147 

Shakespeare's  epitaph  in  Labourdin  Baskish,  846 

Snicket,  its  meaning,  848 

««Solonff,"284 

Then = than,  447 

*  Whitaker '  on  Andorra,  826 
Dog  and  the  gamekeeper,  107,  194 
Donation  party.  New  England,  618 
Donne  (Dr.),  references  to,  in  early  English  literature^ 

188 
Douglas  (R.  B.)  on  Joseph  Boulmier,  416 


530 


INDEX. 


Notes  and  Queries,  July  ST.  1901. 


DougUi  (Sir  James)  &nd  Kobert  Brace,  28,  98,  194 
DougUs  ( W.)  on  location  of  theatre,  381 

Source  of  quotation,  832 
Dove    (C.   C.)    on    bibliography  of   Lally-Tolendal, 
803 

'  Burial  of  Sir  John  Moore,*  461 
Dovecotes,  ancient,  15, 116,  216,  818 
DoTeton  (F.  B.)  on  printer's  proof  of  poems,  187 

Wellmere  Decoy,  Lincolnshire,  288 
Dowager  peeress,  retention  of  title  by,  468,  510 
Downing  (Sir  6eor|^),  his  will,  92 
Downing  Street,  origin  of  the  name,  92 
Dresden  Amen,  its  history,  87,  171,  215 
Drury  (C.)  on  Grindleford  Bridge,  17 
Dual  number  in  provincial  German,  449, 517 
Dude,  pronunciation  of  the  word  in  America,  15 
Duff  (E.  G.)  on  Anthony  de  Solemne,  the  first  printer 

at  Norwich,  1665-80,  381 
Duignan  (W.  H.)  on  AchiU  Island,  133 

Woore  in  Salop,  184 
Dukery,  the,  references  to,  369 
Dunheved  on  blackheads,  253 
«« Duns  "man,  220 

Durie  (W.)  on  shoehomed,  its  meaning,  289 
Dutton  fumly  and  arms,  54,  117,  174,  293,  433 
Dutton  and  Seaman  &milies,  408,  513 
Dyer  (A.  S.)  on  identification  of  arms,  488 
£.  (8.)  on  dendritic  markings  in  paper,  477 
Eakins  (W.  G.)  on  Brandreth  family,  168 
Earrings  worn  by  men,  192 
East  India  Company,  flag  of,  468 
Easter  bibliography,  264 
Easter  Magiant,  origin  of  the  name,  34,  136 
Easter  Monday  at  Hallaton,  Leicestershire,  347 
Easton  (W.  M.  G.)  on  Arbuthnott,  458 

Arms  of  Scotland,  868 
Baton  (C.  O.)  on  Suwarroff  and  Mass^na,  231 
Ecclesiastical  peculiars,  421,  463 
Edgcumbe  (R.)  on    *The  Pilgrim's    Progress,*   first 

edition,  264 
Edinburgh  Rood  Wei),  its  site,  207,  475 
Edinburgh  University,  inscription  in  the  metaphysics 

class-room  in,  485 
Editor  on  D'Auvergne  family,  117 

Insurrection,  its  meaning.  111 

Newspaper  and  magazine  statistics,  223 

Editorial  :— 

"  And  the  night  shall  be  filFd  with  music,"  440 

Blackfriars,  the  order,  bridge,  and  theatre,  40 

Cicero  on  augurs,  260 

"  Credat  Judseus  Apella,**  240 

Disraeli,  120 

"  Duns  "  man,  220 

**  Great  is  the  crime  in  man  or  woman,*'  120 

"I  am  Sir  Oracle,**  440 

"  I  do  love  these  ancient  ruins,"  460 

Lines  on  the  skin,  340 

'  N.  &  Q.,'  value  of  a  complete  set,  820 

Orientation  of  churches  in  England,  220 

*•  Peace  with  honour,"  240 

Plow,  280 

Portmanteau- word,  60 

Sibyl  or  Sybil.  200.  317,  455 

Spartacus.  life  of,  180 

"  Straight  ofl^"  360 


Editorial:— 

"  The  hand  that  rocks  the  cradle  rules  the  world." 
420 

Upholder = upholsterer,  380 
Edward  VII.,  his  accession,  187 ;  his  title  in  Scotland, 

225,  817 
Edward,  Prince  of  Wales,  1453-71,  49 
Eland  on  Chinese  disco veiy  of  America,  129 
Elder  (Abraham),  author,  148 
Elegiacs  and  English  hexameters,  321,  514 
Elegy  imitating  poem  by  Gray,  8 
Eliot  (Greorge),  anecdote  concerning,  70 
Elizabeth  (Queen),  ring  of,  868,  438 
Ellacombe  (H.  N.)  on  Dr.  Forbes  Watson,  247,  454 
Ellesmere  (first  Earl  of),  his  poem  « The  Mill,*  427 
Ellis  (A.  S.)  on  the  £ather  of  Eustace  Fits  Jo^  123 
Ember  on  Napoleon  and  a  coat  of  mail,  467 
Empire,  the,  and  the  Kingdom  of  Aries,  165 

*  Encyclopeedia  Britannica,'  error  in,  165 
England  and  Scotland  reproduced  in  America,  471 
England  v.  Great  Britain,  867 
English-speaking,  early  use  of  the  word,  12 

Epigrams: — 

*'  A  little  garden  Jowett  noade,**  405,  512 
'*  Quod  Don  fecerunt  barbari  feoerunt  Barberini,** 
246,  875 

Episcopal  wig,  introduction  of  the,  387 

Epitaphs  :— 

**Here  rests  a  woman,  good  without  pretence," 

246 
*'  Jesusen  izena  gatik,  ez  otoi !  **  845 
"  Shall  Pride  a  heap  of  sculptur'd  marble  raise,*'  46 
"  This  spot  where  for  forty-four  years,"  476 
'*  To  this  sad  shrine  whoe'er  thou  art  draw  near," 

246 
<*Weepe  greatest   Isle,   and    for    thy   mistresse 
death,"  315 

Errors,  literary,  887 

Errors  of  journalisU,  128,  280,  352 

Esquire,  title  of,  38,  94,  236,  812 

Estates,  three,  in  Parliament,  9 

Estcott  (Richard)  de  Lanceston,  his  biography,  444,512 

Ethiopic  '  History  of  the  Blessed  Men,'  21 

Ethne  the  Dread,  cannibalism  of,  266 

Eton  College  and  ram  hunting,  95,  196 

Etymology,  and  English  accent,  15 ;  and  whist  com- 
pared, 23,  115 ;  Celtic,  29 

Eucharist,  gloves  worn  in  celebrating  the,  45 

Everett-Green  (C.)on  the  late  Mrs.  Everett-Green,  270 

Everett-Green  (Mrs.  M.  A.)>  her  parentage,  8,  270 

Everitt  (A.  T.)  on  Anthony  Fortescue,  435 

*  Everlasting  Gospel,'  87 
Evil  eye,  story  of  the,  47 
Excavations  near  Cirencester,  327,  398 
Executions  at  Tyburn  and  elsewhere,  121,  210,  242, 

282,  310 
Exeter  Theatre  in  1848,  506 
Exhibition,  Great,  season  tickets  for,  288,  486 
Eyre  (sir  James),  1734-99,  his  marriage,  289,  897 
F.S. A.Scot  on  the  Glamis  mystery,  288 
Grey  Friars  Church,  Aberdeen,  285 
F.  (A.)  on  cradle  commissions,  169 
F.  (A.  W.)  on  *'  Many's  Chappel,"  168 
F.  (G.  S.)  on  Arbuthnott,  868 
F.  (J.  J.)  on  Carlyle  on  *'  mostly  fools,**  456 


Notes  and  Queriet,  July  97, 1901. 


INDEX. 


53] 


F.  (J.  T.)  on  "  Ance  mariole  "  in  a  charter,  95 

AnimalB  in  people's  insidei,  222,  391 

'*  As  right  as  a  tzivet,'*  335 

Bell  inscription  at  Pancknowle,  Dorset,  of  date 
1629,  365 

Bishop  of  London*s  funeral,  154 

Crosier  and  pastoral  staff,  tiieir  meaninff.  887 

Frail,  177 

Hand-ruling  in  old  title-pages,  896 

Ireland  and  frogs,  292 

Plough  Monday  mummeries,  477 

Bhododendrons  and  oleanders,  171 

Bood  Well,  Edinburgh,  207 

St.  Hugh's  Day,  16 

Selfode,  89 
F.  (M.)  on  Waurom,  129 
F.  (R.  J.)  on  the  bellman,  75 

Nooth  (Dr.  J.  Mervin),  his  biography,  37 

United  States  flag,  265 
F.  (S.  J.  A.)  on  an  American  invasion,  293 

Jewish  actors,  their  number,  289 

'  Paddle  your  own  Canoe/  493 

'*MereMan,"506 

**  So  long,"  its  equivaleot,  297 
Faber  (F.  W.).  hymn  by,  188,  232 
Fair  and  making  hir,  446 
Falkland  (Lady),  verses  by,  388 
'*  Fall  below  par  '* :  Kaiser  Wilhehn  and  Rothschild, 

488 
Fane  (Blanche),  actress,  her  biography,  308,  351 
Fanfulla  in  Massimo  D'AzegUo's  novels,  51 
Fea  (A.)  on  Walton  relic,  188 
Female  worker  in  iron,  466 
Ferdinand    VII.    of   Spain    in    the   '  Encydopsddia 

Britannica,'  165 
Fergaunt  (Alan),  origin  of  the  name,  169,  338 
Ferguson  (D.)  on  grasshoppers gingall,  349 

Lake,  a  precious  stone,  506 

Point  de  Galle,  185 

Register  of  births  on  Tower  Hill,  329 
Ferrar  (M.)  on  etymology  and  whist,  115 

Margery,  194 

Mussulman  legend  of  Job,  190 

Title  of  esquire,  94 
Festing   (Miss  6.)  on  portrait  of   Lady  Brilliana 

Harley,  508 
Feudal  rights,  old,  247 

"  Feuilles  de  lattier,"  meaning  of  the  term,  488 
Fiction,  fantastic,  161,  290 
Fielding  and  Brillat-Savarin,  248 
Fillingham  family,  448 
Fillingham  (6.)  on  Fillingham  family,  448 
Fire-fiuiged,  obsolete  woi^,  350 
Firth  (C.  H.)  on  Cromwelliana,  481 

Strachan  (Col.  Archibald),  446 
Fishwick  (H.)  on  bell-ringing  at  wakes,  294 

Crosse  HaU,  414 

Leadbeater  MS.,  468 
FitzGlanvil  on  hereditary  oflBcials,  365 

Title  of  esquire,  33 
Fitz  John  (Eustace),  identification  of  the  father  of,  123 
Five  o'clock  tea,  introduction  of,  13,  96,  176,  332 
Flag,  the  national,  193  ;  and  the  Mayflower,  404 
Flag  of  East  India  Company,  468 
Flag  of  the  United  States,  265 
Flemish  weavers,  92 


Fletcher  (Thomas),  1664-1718,  poet,  in  *  D.N.B.,*  226 

Flogging  at  the  cart  tail,  28,  158,  214 

Florin,  gold,  its  origin,  7,  153 

Florio's  '  Montaigne,'  412 

Flower  divination,  29,  353 

Flower  game,  survival  of,  329,  897,  474,  511 

Floyd  (W.  C.  L.)  on  Lieut-CoL  Moorhouse,  18 

Fly,  Aristotle  on  a,  449 

*'  Flying  Dutchman,'*  original  story  of  the,  808 

Folio :  Quarto,  use  of  the  words,  185 

Folk-etymologies,  instances  of  the  origin  of,  110 

Folk-lore  :— 

Animals  in  people's  insides,  222,  332,  890 ;  in 
India^  225 

Devil's  dam  in  a  Cossack  Stanitza,  6 

Fair  and  making  &ir,  446 

Lizard,  67,  224,  436 

Moon  lore,  27,  96,  154 

Witches  in  the  republic  of  Colombia,  366 

Worcestershire,  54,  255,  374 
Fontenoy,  Lrish  Brigade  at  the  battle  o^  1745,  25, 114^ 

211,  333  ;  the  42nd  at.  286,  378 
Foot  of  beef  as  a  quantity,  its  meaning,  510 
Footprints  of  gods,  238 

Forbes  (J.  M.)  on  Suwarroff  and  Mass^na,  108 
Ford  (C.  L.)  on  "  J'ai  v^cu,"  105 

Latin  motto,  478 

Suwarroff  and  Mass^na,  192 

Waller,  55 
Forecourt  at  Ashbumham  House,  Westminster,  125 
Foreigners  in  M  eidco,  designation  of,  389,  496 
Forslukw  (C.  F.)  on  Beardshaw  or  Bearde*shawe,  137 

Chavasse  £unily,  130 

Penny,  the,  38 

SafiEbrd  fiamily  in  Somersetshire,  233 

Stewart  (Rev.  James  Haldane),  274 

Verses  on  death  of  Queen  Victoria,  149 
Fortescue  (Anthony),  his  biography,  327,  435 
Forth  fiunily  and  arms,  128 
Fortune  (F.  N.  B.  V.  B.),  his  biography,  148 
Fortune-telling  at  Bideford,  866 
Forty-Shilling  Day  at  Wotton,  Surrey,  366 
Fosoolo  (Ugo)  in  London,  150,  318,  476 
Foster  (J.  £.)  on  Cambridge  University  in  the  seven- 
teenth century,  480 
Foster  (John  Edward),  his  biography,  148 
Fothergill  (Richard),  his  biography,  167 
Foulis  (J.),  his  biography,  148 
Fouhrice,  its  etymology,  229,  353,  453 
**  Four-and-Five,"  Orientalism,  its  meaning,  149,  250 
Fox  (John  Fox),  his  biography,  167 
Foy  (John),  his  biography,  187 
Frabbed,  use  and  meaning  of  the  word,  53 
Frail,  its  meaning,  33,  177 
France,  voluntary  mutilations  in,  27 
Eraser  (Simon,  Lord  Lovat),  and  his  son  Simon,  bio- 
graphy and  portrait,  16.  51,  75,  115,  192,  232,  431 
Freemasonry,  the  acacia  in,  9,  112,  213,  497 
Friar's  Crag,  Derwentwater,  129,  196 
Friday  superstition,  194,  387,  412 
Frogs  and  Ireland,  186,  292 
Froissart,  Scottish  names  in,  28,  95 
Front  (Mary,  Countess  de),  her  biography,  229 
Fry  (E.  A.)  on  Byfield  famUy.  234 
Funeral  cards,  earliest  printed,  88, 171,  291,  332,  414 


632 


INDEX. 


Notet  and  Qoerlea.  July  27.  UOL . 


Fynmore  (R.  J.)  on  Dntton  and  Seaman  fiunilies,  408 

Hawkins  family,  29 

Sobod-teachen  in  Kent,  1578-1619,  137 
O.  on  ^  Between  the  devil  and  the  deep  aea,**  449 
O.  (A.)  on  Comtene  de  S^r,  427 
O.  (0.  L.)  on  Teddre  fiimily,  28 

Tinkhame  fiumly,  68 
O.  (L.)  on  lady  and  genUewoman,  309 
O  (M.  N.)  on  battle  of  Fontenoy,  212 

Canadian  boat-aong,  513 

Designation  of  fonignera  in  Mezioo^  496 

Dnde,  its  pronunciation,  16 

Joan  of  Arc,  855 

Scanty  wedding  dress,  18 

Shakespeare,  the  knavish,  255 

Sawarroff  and  Mass^na,  193 
Gadsden  (W.  J^  on  sinsing  in  church,  265 
Oaidos  (H.)  on  Celtic  s(£eaiiles  of  the  1901  census,  808 
Oalen,  translations  of  his  works,  182,  258 
Gallimaufry,  its  etymology,  86 
Gallog^ass,  its  meaning,  506 
OaUuses= braces,  156 
Games  :  golf  and  pall  •  mall,  52,  285,  852 ;  flower, 

829,  897,  474,  511  ;  batUedore,  469 
Gardiner  (B.  F.)  on  living  in  three  centuries,  86 
Garland,  new  sense  of,  45 
Garratt  (John),  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  date  of  his 

death,  447 
Gast,  the  terminal,  its  meaning,  808,  418 
Gates  of  Caroline  Park,  Edinburgh,  288 
Gatty  (A.)  on  Nelson's  death,  367 
Gaudio,  its  etymology,  86 
Gavelage  and  pillar  tax,  81, 141 
Genealogical  research  in  America,  244,  850 
Genealogical  trees,  27*  71 
Genealogy,  consolidMed  indexes  of,  426 
Gentlewoman  and  Udy.  809 
Gentiier  as  a  comparative  adverb,  468 
Ckrish  (W.  B.)  on  area  of  churchyards,  9 

Healing  stone,  12 

Human  remains  at  Machen,  Monmouthshire,  126 

Kitty-witeh,  114 

Morice  (John),  F.S.A.,  850 

Movable  stocks,  118 

"St  Hubert's  rent,  St  Alban*s  land,  St.  Bd- 
mond's  right,  St.  Peter's  patrimony,"  407 
German,  dual  number  in  provincial,  449,  517 
Gilles  de  Baiz  or  de  Retz,  his  biogn^hy,  224,  855 
Gilling  Church,  monuments  in,  189 
Gillman  (C.)  on  whom  =r  home,  874 
Gill's  Lap,  place-name,  its  meaning,  228,  856 
GtngaIl=grasshopper,  349 
Gipsies  and  longevity,  406 
Gipsy  wedding,  account  of  a,  45 
Gladstone  (Right  Hon.  W.  E.),  statue  o^  in  Liver- 
pool, 108, 177  ;  tragedy  by,  408  ;  volume  by,  488 
Glamis  mystery,  288,  812 
Glasgow  University,  ninth  jubilee  o(  484 
Glen  and  glene,  etymology  of^  47 
Gloucestershire  on  '*  To  sit  bodkin,"  228 
Gloves  worn  in  celebrating  the  Eudiaiist,  45 
Gnomon  on  acacia  in  Freemasonry,  112 

Barry  (Dr.),  516 

<*  Bull  and  Last,"  254 

Date  wanted,  158 

Soottiah  dance,  76 


Gnomon  on  XJsk  Castle,  116 

Wall  calendars  with  quotations  from  Shakespeare, 
209 
Godding  (J.  W.  S.)  on  taverns  in  Seven  Dials  and 

Soho,  487 
GrodHngy  its  meaning,  506 

Goethe  (J.  W.),  '*  Pamina  and  Tismino  "  in,  S67,  454 
Gold,  the  Mint  price  of;  127 
Golf  and  pall-mall,  the  games,  52,  285,  852 
Goncales  (Cardinal  Pedro),  anecdote  of,  106,  172,  878 
Goodchild  (J.  A.)  on  broken  on  the  wheel,  196 
Good  Friday  and  parsley,  264 
(^UxMlyere  (Sir  Heniy),  date  of  his  death,  447 
Gkssagefiunily  of  Spratton,  Northamptonshire,  70, 165 
Gosselin  (H.  B.  H.)  on  churmac^les,  its  meaning,  28 
Gou^  (A.)  on  Achm  Island,  171 

ipplepen,  co.  Devon,  217 
(rould  (L  C.)  on  county  abbevs,  455 
Granges  (James),  his  biography,  69 
Grant  (Lewis),  his  biogn^^hy,  47 
Grant  (Mrs.)  of  Laggan,  265 
GrasshopperBgingaU,  349 
Gratitude,  definition  of,  89,  188,  172 
Graves  (A.)  on  James  Denew,  auctioneer,  487 
Gravestones,  EngHsh,  in  Minorca,  45 
Gray  (T.),  elegy  imitating  poem  by,  8 
Great  Britain  v.  England,  367 
Greatorex  (John  Anthony),  his  biography,  47 
Greaves  (George  GU>lding),  his  biognnihy,  69 
Greece,  Lord  Byron's  poem  on,  828,  475 
Greek  Church,  UturgioU  language  of  the,  51 
Greek  pronunciation,  146,  851,  449 
Green  (C.)  on  apostle  spoons,  411 

Byron's  poem  on  Greece,  475 
Green  (L.)  on  become,  165 

**Hutching  about,"  165 

"Trunk  up,"  165 
Green  fiunily  of  Wyken,  248 
Gretna  Green,  marriage  custom,  408 
Grey  Friars  Church,  Aberdeen,  285 
Grierson  fiunily  of  Dublin,  27,  158 
Grigor  (J.)  on  the  "V^niliam  Blade  Beacon,  446 

'Book. World,' 275 
Grillet  (J.)  on  noble,  290 
Grindleford  Bridge,  17 

(Gringo  on  the  designation  of  foreigners  in  Mexico,  889 
Giivignce  (Baron)  and  M.  N.  Power,  409,  476 
GuadSgnoli  (Antonio),  c  1798-1858,  bis  biography, 

229 
Guild  merchants  of  Shrewsbury,  roll  of  1281,  96 
Gun  reports,  distance  heard,  207,  258,  498 
Gumey  (Hudson),  his  papers,  17 
Gutter-snipe^  use  of  the  word,  77 
Gwyn  (Nell),  notable  descendants  o^  229,  376 
H.  on  Americana,  427 

St  Clement  Danes,  875 

Van  der  Meulen  and  Huditenbnrg,  87,  458 
<H.E.D.,'titleo(  847,486 
H.  (A.)  on  the  Bemers  fiunily,  258 

Date  of  the  Crucifixion,  85 

Defoe  (Daniel),  last  male  descendant,  177,  895 

Edward  YII.'s  titie  in  Scotiand,  817 

Feigaunt,  169 

IppMpen,  ca  Devon,  217i  868 

JonnMn  (Dr.),  296 

Kent  (Mr.).  174 


Notes  mad  Qnariet.  July  97, 1901. 


INDEX. 


633 


H.  (A.)  on  BwshAlntM,  the,  14 

Verbs  fonned  out  of  proper  namei,  495 
H.  (All)  on  dengnatbii  of  fbreignen  in  Merioo,  496 
H.  (A.  C.)  on  Anthony  Wharton,  49 
H.  (A.  D.)  on  gun  reporte,  207 
H.  (C.  W.)  on  Sir  Jamee  Eyre,  1784-99,  897 

Wwren  (Sir  John  Borlaae),  Bart.,  198,  895 
H.  (F.)  on  oollateb  ifti  meanings  5 

Quaint  outtom,  49 

Quotation,  an  adalterate,  5 

Ri«^t,  ynlgar  mienee  <^  49 
H.  (F.  E.)  on^Annale  of  Aberdeen,  1617,'  486 
H.  (H.  O.)  on  OiU*8  Li^  228 

Jonee  (John),  the  regidde,  249 

L^horn,  47 

"&  long,"  129 
H.  (J.  B.)  on  towns  which  haye  ohanged  their  dtes, 

859 
H.  (J.  L.)  on  volontary  mntilationa  in  Franoe,  27 
H.  (O.  O.)  on  Bayaid,  name  for  honw,  106 

Eaeter  magiant,  186 

Hea(  98 

Lotteriet,  28 

BoU  of  guild  merchante  of  Shrewsbary,  96 

"  SilTer  trumpet,"  ite  meaning,  487 
H.  (EL  T.)  on  PhiUippo,  iti  meaning,  468 
H.  (W.  B.)  on  Bonaparte  baUad,  484 

Coronation  of  Queen  Victoria,  487 

High  and  Low  :  ConierratiTe  and  liberal,  288 

National  nioknamee,  258 
H.  (W.  S.  B.)  on  Book  of  Morning  and  Evening 

Prayer  only,  409 
Ha|fo,  origin  of  the  word,  408,  478 
Haines  (C.  B.)  on  OoYemor  Haynes'sgrandfiikther,  172 
Haines  (R.)  on  an  American  invasion,  298 

English  hexameters  and  elegiacs,  514 

Moline  family,  448 

Shakespeare,  the  knayiih,  474 

Shakespeare  queries,  888 
Halberts,  old  military  weapons,  473 
Hall  (A.)  on  boulder  stones,  137 

BaDer  pedigree,  854 

CsMar  ( Jntius),  37 

Cromwell  fisunily,  88 

Currency  before  coinage,  109 

Lamb  jottings,  282 

**  Mad  as  a  hatter,*'  its  meaning,  251 

Movable  stocks,  14 

Nature  myths,  86 

Poem  attributed  to  Milton,  90 

Poison  in  beer,  105 

SkiUy,  217 

Throgmorton  (Francis),  216 

IVbum,  manor  of,  491 
Hall  (H.)  on  yockynggsle,  its  meaning,  288 
Hall  (J.)  on  Sir  James  Audley  and  his  four  etqairei^ 

801 
Hallaton,  Leicestershire,  Easter  Monday  at^  847 
Hamilton  (J.)  on  Ashwood  fiunily,  429 
Hamilton    (J.   L.)    on   hammer-ponds:   fresh-water 

musseb  and  pearls,  467 
Hamilton  (S.  G.)  on  comic  dialogue  sermon,  889 
Hamilton  (William),  of  Lisorooney,  his  biography,  128 
Hamley  (Edward),  B.C.L.,  b.  1764,  hU  biography,  205 
Hamley  (George),  his  *  Captain  dutterbuok's  Oham- 
pegne,'  478 


Hammer*ponds :  fresh-water  mnssels  and  pearls,  467 
Hancock  (T.  W.)  on  Pennant's '  Tonn  in  Wales,'  67 
Handel,  a  relic,  126 
Handford  on  yeomanry  records,  12 
Hand-ruling  in  old  title-pages,  169,  881,  896, 515 
Hankford(Sir  William),  hu  biograd^,  429 
Harben  (H.  A.)  on  executions  at  Inborn  and  else- 
where, 312 

Old  London  taverns,  854 
Hardmge    (Geoige),    1744-1816,    his    'BbMnoe    of 

Malone,'  197 
Hardstaff  (B.)  on  OarMe  on  **  msMj  foob,"  456 
Hare  (Hem7),  Lord  Coleraine^  his  'The  Situation  of 

Paradise/  487 
Harland-Cxley  (W.  B.)  on  skulls  found  in  Victoria 

Street,  Westminster,  11 
Harley  (Lady  Brilliana),  her  portrait,  508 
Harps,  Irish,  228,  888 
Harris  (C.  8.)  en  FkMrio's  '  Montaigne,'  412 
Harris  (H.  N.)  on  Henry  Harris,  M.D.Bdin.,  808 
Harris  (Henry),  M.D.Bdin.,  his  biography,  808 
Harrison  (H.)  on  wise,  172 
Hartshome  (A.)  on  bougdes  :  boggisi^  148 

Humbnz,  89 

Sack  and  sugar,  148 
Hatch  (Dr.  E.),  the  late,  poem  by,  29,  111 
Hatelyfamily,  867,  411 
Haltock,  meaning  of  the  word,  72 
Hatton  (Sir  Christopher),  his  monument,  410,  510 
Hawkins  £Mnily,  29 

Hawkins  (Serjeant),  his  biography,  154,  477 
Hawok,  its  meaning,  18 
Haydon  (N.  W.  J.)  on  the  Havdon  fiunfly,  469 
Haynee  (Governor),  his  grand&ther,  172,  415 
Heads  in  Southam  Church,  Warwickshire,  268 
Heads  or  tails,  126 
Heaf,  derivation  of  the  word,  98 
Hearth-money,  1662-89,  808 
Hebb  (J.)  on  Angto-Hebrew  slang :  kybosh,  188 

Blue  Beard,  224 

Chisel  marks,  288 

Foscolo  (Ugo)  in  London,  150,  818 

Goadagnoli  (Antonio),  229 

Hogarth's  House,  Chiswick,  886 

Lincoln's  Inn  Fields,  18 

London  topography.  No.  22,  Catherine  Street,  285 

Parks,  the  lungs  of  London,  289 

Peochio  (Count  Giuseppe),  51, 898 

Plots  of  plays,  145 

"  Quod  non  froerunt  barbari  feoerunt  Barberini," 
246 

Sandwich  men,  245 

Sarson  stones,  149 

Saunders  (George),  F.R.S.,  F.SJL,  architect,  807 

SUtue  in  Soho  Square,  209 

Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  894 
Hebrews,  prohibition  of  heathen  wine  among  the,  145 
Hedge  in  Bacon's '  Essay  on  Gardens,'  its  meanings  489 
Heelis  (J.  L.)  on  dog  and  the  gamekeeper,  107 

Miraculous  bolC  46 

*  N.  &  Q.'  in  fiction,  86 
Heiress,  a  Scots,  as  a  recluse  in  Bologna,  488 
Helm  (W.  H.)  on  wall  calendars  with  quotations  from 

Shakespeare,  385 
Hemming  (R.)  on  <  Book-World,'  177 

Gre&  pronunciation,  851 


534 


INDEX. 


NotM  and  Qoeriet,  July  S7,  IML 


Hemmiiig  (R.)  on  inBtallatioii  of  a  midwife,  197 

PaginAtion,  316 
Hems  (H.)  oq  Anglo- Hebrew  slang :  kybosh,  277 

Area  of  churcfayardB,  118 

Bandy-legged  =ss  knock*  kneed,  255 

Blankets,  155 

Boulder  stones,  136 

Female  worker  in  iron,  466 

«Lantedale,'*158 

Location  of  theatre,  831 

London  charohes,  278 

"  Mary's  Chappel."  873 

MoDolith  in  Hyde  Park,  195 

National  nicknames,  185 

Forman  architecture,  94 

OrientaUon  in  interments,  888 

Pens  :  nibs  and  nebs,  889 

Public  mourning,  295 

**  Put  a  spoke  in  the  wheel,"  258 

Skulls  found  in  Victoria  Street,  Westminster,  11 

Surnames,  285 
Hendriks  (F.)  on  John  Stow*s  portrait,  1603,  401 
Heniy  III.  pawns  an  image  of  the  Virgin,  327 
Henry  VIL,  early  history  o^  110,  256 

Heraldry : — 

American,  117,  429 

Argent,  two  bars  asure  (in  sable),  58 

Arms  of  Scotland,  452 

Arms  on  ancient  leather  cover  in  Sweffling  Church, 
Suffolk,  87 

Chevron  engrailed  between  three  mascles,  69 

Ermine,  a  harp  or,  128 

Gules,  a  cross  vair,  71 

Gules,  a  fret  or,  54,  117,  174,  293,  438 

Identification  of   arms   in    St.   Mary's  .Church, 
Reading,  488 

Lozengy  (fFusiUy)  or  and  vert,  288 

Noble,  in  Swiss,  208,  290 

Sa.,  a  chevron  between  three  fleams  arg.,  852 

Sea  proper,  in  the  base  a  deft  or,  247,  395 

Three  lions  passant  guardant,  268,  358 

Two  bars,  on  a  canton  a  cinquefoil,  408 
Hereditary  ofBcialB,  865 
Heriot  (George),  bis  grave,  34 

Heme  (Richard),  Sheriff  of  London,  1618-19,  809,  874 
Heron* Allen  (E.)  on  books  on  numners,  deportment, 
and  etiquette,  888 

Chaucer,  doubthil  passages  in,  189 

Four-and-Five,  its  meaning,  250 

«  Maiy's  Chappel,"  275 

Moon  lore,  154 

Movable  stocks,  214 

Routes  between  London  and  Paris,  114 
Hesl^  (R.  O.)  on  Boca  Chica,  812 

Keel  65 
Hewitt  (J.  A.)  on  Angier,  Anger,  or  Aungier  family, 

13 
Hexameters,  English,  and  elegiacs,  821,  514 
Hiatt  (C.)  on  Johnson  v.  Boswell,  285 
Hibgame  (F.  T.)  on  blessing  of  the  throats,  196 

Defoe,  last  male  descendant,  86 
Friday  superstition,  337 
High  and  Low  :  Conservative  and  Liberal,  128,  288 
Higbam  (C.)  on  cradle  commissions,  251 
Morsay  or  Marsay  (Count),  851 


Higham  (C.)  on  Patmore  and  Swedenboig,  845 
Southey  and  Swedenboig,  186 
Speranza  and  Swedenboig,  287 
Hill  (A.  F.)  on  catalogue  of  musical  instromant^  807 
HiU  (G.)  on  the  42Dd  at  Fontenoy,  286 

Joan  of  Arc,  268 
HiU  (Serjeant  George),  1716-1808,  68, 194 
Hine  (J.),  his  'Selections  from  the  Poema  of  WiDiam 

Wordsworth,  Esq.,*  42 
'  Historical  English  Dictionary,'  847,  486 
History,  nnivenal,  bibliography  of,  488 
Hitohin-Kemp  (F.)  on  Ftemish  weavers,  92 
Hockley  (B.  C.  C.)  on  portrait  of  Sir  John  Thordd,  108 
Hodgkin  (J.  E.)  on  funeral  cards,  291 
HogM*th's  House,  Chiswick,  its  demolition,  886 
Holden  (Lieut.-Col.  R.)  on  Hdden  Cmttendeo,  869 
Hohnes  (R.  B.)  on  *'  BuU  and  Last,"  881 
HolyweU  Street,  Strand,  relics  of,  13, 115 
Home=wb5m,  286,  874 
Hone  (William),  his  burial-place,  408,  498 
Hooligan,  origin  of  the  term,  48, 114 
Hop  and  malt  substitutes,  150,  215,  296,  454 
Hope  (H.  G.)  on  battle  of  Fontenoy,  25,  211 

Confidential  dispatches  to  the  War  Office,  878 
Danteiana,  816 

Flight  of  King  James  from  Ireland,  329 
Hopton  (Susanna),  devotional  writer,  1627-1709,  509 
Home  (A.  B.)  on  the  «•  Twopenny  Tube,"  875 
Horses,  marks  on.  111,  198 

Horses  with  four  white  stockings  toll-free.  111,  198 
Housden  (J.  A.  J.)  on  Gill's  Lap,  856 

Motto  for  laundry  porch,  176 
Houses^  pews  annexed  to,  888,  517 
Howley  (Arohbp.),  d.  1848,  his  mother,  408 
Huohtenburg  and  Van  der  Meulen,  pictures  by,  87 

117,  458 
'  Hudibras,'  parrot  in,  292 
Hughes  (T.  C.)  on  Chavasse  family,  191 

Columbaria,  ancient  dove  or  pigeon  ootes,  15 

Excavations  near  Cirencester,  827 

'  Go  to  the  devil  and  shake  yourself,'  82 

Incised  circles  on  stones,  889 

Lay  canon,  858 

London  churches,  885 

Monuments  in  Gilling  Church,  189 

Municipal  coincidences,  409 

Roman  steelyard  weights,  228 

Runic  inscription  found  in  St.  Paul's  Churdiyaid, 

269 
Seals,  history  of,  189 
Willis  (Rev.  George),  428 
Huitson  fiimily,  129,  218,  314 
Hull  saying,  *<  Ah  '11  travis  ther,"  445 
Hulton  (E.)  on  the  orb,  227 
Human  remains  found  at  Machen,  Monmouthsluie, 

126 
Humbuz,  use  and  meaning  of  the  word,  89 
Hume  (David),  his  portrait  by  Itamsay,  188,  272 
Hunter-Blair  (O.)  on  viva,  18 
Hossey  (A.)  on  berth = to  lay  down  floor-boards,  505 
Bishop  of  London's  funeral,  231 
Garland,  new  sense  of,  45 
Latin  motto,  12 
Portall  or  screen,  425 
School-teachers  in  Kent,  1578-1619,  8 
Hutchinson  (J.)  on  allusion  in  Wordiwortfa,  282;  488 


Votes  and  Qaerlet,  July  97, 1901. 


INDEX. 


535 


Hutohiiifloii  (J.)  on  gentlier  as  a  oompftratire  adyerb, 

468 
Hyde  Park,  monolith  with  cup-markings  in,  69,  115, 

195, 292 
Hyndford  (Earl  of),  the  first,  his  daughters,  249,  358 
Ibagu^  on  bell-ringing  at  wakes,  188 
Bishop  of  London's  funeral,  281 
Columbaria,  ancient  dove  or  pigeon  cotes,  318 
Corpse  superstition,  86 
Counting  another's  buttons,  236 
Footprints  of  gods,  &o.,  233 
Friday  superstition,  194 
Gates  of  Caroline  Park,  Edinburgh,  288 
Halberts,  the,  473 

Killing  pigs  in  the  wane  of  the  moon,  93 
Lights  seen  otot  the  places  where  treasure  i 

buried,  47 
London  OTcning  papers,  165 
Methodists  and  parish  church.  169 
Mock  bullfight  on  Christmas  Eve,  246 
Morris  (William)  as  a  man  of  business,  118,  296 
Orientation  in  interments,  195,  481 
Peoohio  (Count  Giuseppe),  191 
Peridot,  Perited,  or  Pilidod,  215 
Pitcher  of  water  in  death-chamber,  69 
Powdering  gowns,  474 
Quaint  custom,  186 
Sisottish  death  superstition,  467 
Soldier  ancestors,  353 
Spotted  negro  boy,  258 
Snperstitious  cures  for  disease,  104 
Sympathetic  magic,  266 
Towns  which  haye  changed  their  sites,  206 
'*  Twopenny  Tube."  218 
West-Countrymen*s  tails,  286 
Witch  superstitions  in  the  republic  of  Colombia^ 

366 
Worcestershire  folk-lore,  255 
Ictinus  on  Norman  architecture,  29 
Inam  or  Lnftm,  Arabic  word,  345 
Independent  Company  of  Invalids,  1 71 
Indexes :  to   *  Notes  and  Queries,'   26 
'Notes  and  Queries,*  corrections  in, 


General, 
43,    164; 


to 
,  of 
'  Notes    and    Queries  *  for    sale,    387,   520  ;  con- 
solidated genealogical,  426 
India,  superstitions  relating  to  animals  in,  225  ;  regi- 
ment that  declined  to  go  to,  329 
Influenza,  early  reference  to,  286 
Ingleby  (H.)  on  '<  La-di-da,"  name  of  song,  425 
Manuranoe,  125,  336 
Shakespeariana,  22 
Smous,  its  meaning,  298 
Innes  on  D'Auvergne  family,  68 
Inns  of  Court,  age  of  entry  at,  17,  452 
Inoculation,  early.  108.  212 
Inquirer  on  a  passage  in  Pope,  308 

Title  of  esquire.  236 
Inscription:  runic. found  in  St.  Paul's  Churchyard,  269, 
338  ;  in  the  metaphysi'  s  class-room  in  Edinburgh 
University,  485 
Instrumentfi,  musical,  catalogue  of,  207 
Insurrection,  use  of  the  word,  66.  Ill,  314 
Intemperance,  war,  pestilence,  and  famine,  390 
Interments,  orientation  in,  195,  338,  431 
Inundate,  its  pronunciation,  71 
Invalids,  Independent  Company  of,  171 


Ipplepen,  oo.  Devon,  its  etymology,  50,  118,  217,  297» 

853,  473 
Iredale  (A.)  on  Camden  ancestry,  14 
Ireland  and  frogs,  186,  292 
Irish  Brigade  at  the  battle  of  Fontenoy,  1745,  25» 

114,  211,  333 
Irish  fiunine,  verses  on  the,  148,  251 
Irish  harps,  228,  888 

Irish  names,  their  etymology,  50,  113,  217 
Irish  wills,  1600  1760,  9,  71 
Iron,  female  worker  in,  466 
•Itis,  termination,  its  etymology.  468 
Iveagh,  00.  Down,  its  pronunciation,  428 
J.  (P.)  on  authors  of  books  wanted,  348 

**  Capt  Rock,"  353 
J.  (F.  W.)  on  snicket,  its  meaning,  512 
J.  (H.)  on  source  of  lines  wanted,  148 
J.  (K.  J.)  on  Adam  Buck,  472 
J.  (S.  S.)  on  national  flag,  193 
Jackson  (F.  M.)  on  Morsay  or  Count  Marsay,  249 
Jackson  (F.  W.)  on  Simon  Eraser,  16.  75 
Jackson  (M.)  on  "  Life  is  not  all  beer  and  skittles,*' 88 
James  II.  (King),  his  flight  from  Ireland,  329 
Jarratt  (F.)  on  Shakespeare  queries,  454 
Jeakes  (T.  J.)  on  acacia  in  Freemasonry,  497 
Bottled  ale,  its  invention,  514 
Coco  de  mer  or  double  coco-nut,  417 
Colpeans,  its  meaning,  432 
Crong,  its  meaning,  433 
Den&tic  markings  in  paper,  477 
Flower  game,  397 

Foulrice :  lock  elm :  chincherer,  their  meaning,  453 
Lizard  folk-lore,  436 
<*  Mad  as  a  hatter,**  396 
PaU-mall  and  golf,  352 
Pews  annexed  to  houses,  518 
Sargent  family,  432 
Ships  of  war  on  land,  431 
Tapping  and  tipping,  456 
Troubadour  and  daisy,  457 
Worcestershire  folk-lore,  374 
Jean  le  Manique,  Sieur  de  Boucicault,  his  biography, 

367,  454 
Jebb  (C.)  on  Ireland  and  frogs,  186 
**  Jeber's  cooks,**  meaning  of  the  term,  148,  238 
Jelalabad,  mineral  springs  at,  63 
Jerry-build :  jerry-built,  305 
Jesse  (John  fleneage)  and  George  Selwyn,  122,  178^ 

274 
Jeune  (Lady)  on  old  feudal  rights,  &c.,  247 
Jew  and  Israelite,  use  of  the  words.  86 
Jewish  actors,  289 

Jewish  architects  in  the  Middle  Ages,  189 
Joan  of  Arc.  and  goddams,  268,  355;  her  trial,  408, 472 
Job,  a  Mussulman  legend  of,  63,  190,  296 
"John  Company,"  34 
Johnson  v.  Boswell,  285 
Johnson  (H.)  on  designation  of  foreigners  in  Mexico,  496 

Hearth-money,  1662-89,  308 
Johnson  (Robert).  Sheriff  of  London,  1617,  his  bio- 
graphy, 228.  313,  413 
Johnson  (Dr.  S.),  spelling  of  his  name.  88. 176.  237, 295 
Johnston  (L.  C.)  on  Thomas  Marryat,  M.D.,  1730- 
1792,  409 
I  Jonas  (A.  C.)  on  Breckenridge  familv,  415 
'Paddle  your  own  Canoe,*  53,  493 


536 


INDEX. 


NotM  and  QiMrlet,  July  27. 1901. 


JoDM  (A.  C.)  onparloar,  its  meaning,  889 

Wbttgift'fl  Hospital,  Croydon,  256,  450 
Jooaa  (J«kB),  the  regieide,  249,  872 
JoBson  (Bso),  nnpobliahed  yerses  by,  46 ;  unclaimed 

poem  by,  96,  151 
Jordan  (Mrs.).  aetiMs,  in  Dublin,  221 
Joswlyii  (J.  H.)  on  Forth  funily  and  arms,  128 
JoamaUstic  errors,  128,  280,  852 
JowetVs  little  garden,  405,  512 
Jug,  medallions  on,  95 
Juggins,  use  of  the  surname,  247,  392 
Jury  in  nautical  terms,  197 
K.  on  animals  in  people*s  insldes,  890 
Barted,287 

Broken  on  the  wheel,  185 
Flower  game,  897,  511 
St.  Qiles*s  Chorch,  Northampton,  453 
Ships  of  war  on  land,  147 
E.  (C.)  on  Usk  CasUe,  115 

K.  (J.  H.)  on  Charles  Lamb  and  *  The  Champion,*  12 
E.  (L.  L.)  on  battle  of  Varna  and  the  Papal  fleet,  405 
CUrk  (William  Tieme^),  308 
Insurrection,  its  meanmg,  314 
Blann  (Ambrose  Dudley),  329 
"  Quot  linguas  calles,  tot  homines  yales,"  297 
Towns  which  haye  changed  their  ntes,  273 
*  Eearsley*s  Gentleman  and  Tradesman's  Pocket  Ledger 

for  the  Year  1796,' 26 
Keech:  to  keech,  use  of  the  yerb,  18,  94 
Keel,  used  on  the  Tyne,  account  of  the,  65 
Keene  (R.)  on  skilly,  216 
Kemp  (J.  T.)  on  crong,  its  meaning,  346 

Surname  Kemp,  427 
Kemp  surname,  427 

Kent,  school-teachers  in  1578-1619,  8, 187 
Kent  (P.)  on  Darcy  Lever,  his  biography,  1 
Kent  family,  3,  78,  173 
Kiev,  books  oo,  485 

King  (A.  J.)  on  Ten  Commandments  in  rime,  58 
King   (C.)  on  the  last  male  descendant  of  Daniel 
Defoe,  297,  395 
Memoirs  of  early  Methodist  preachers,  29 
'N.&Q.*  in  fiction,  155 

'  Pilgrim's  Progress,'  early  edition  in  French,  167 
King  (Murtagh),  translator  of  the  Erse  Old  Testa- 
ment, his  biography,  8 
King  and  Queen  equal,  150 
King's  preacher  appointed  by  Edward  VI.,  27 
Kingsman  family,  390,  493 
Kinkajou,  zoological  term,  its  etymology,  886 
Kinnell  Church,  inscription  in,  208,  315 
Kipling  (John  Stewart),  of  FumiviJ's  Inn,  48 
Kipling  (Rudyard),  stories  by,  488 
Kitto  (J.  V.)  on  George  Heriot's  grave,  34 
Kitty-witch,  East  Anglian  custom,  9,  114 
Knievogue,  its  etymology,  69,  173 
Knifeboard  of  an  omnibus,  early  use  of  the  word,  487 
'*  Ejiights  of  the  Moon,"  166 
Knock-kneed = bandy-legged,  124,  255,  476 
Knowler  on  morning  glory,  a  flower,  417 
Knox  (Rev.  John),  1787,  388 
Krebs  (H.)  on  caendo=ceroando,  238 

Dual  number  in  provincial  German,  517 
Lattermint,  its  meaning,  878 
*'  Le  trecento  cariche,*'  234 
Krueger  (Dr.  G.)  on  bob-haw !  282 


Kruttzer  (Dr.  G.)  on  brazen-soft,  177 
Colpeara,  its  meaning,  482 
LaUn  motto,  312 
Nnnty,  its  meaning,  291 
Petermg,  its  meaning,  851 
"Qui  Vive t"  836 
Quotations,  171 
Shimmoszel,  its  meaning,  453 
Vanishing  London,  812 
Kybosh,  Anglo-Hebrew  sUng,  188,  276,  416 
Kyrie  Bleison  in  Latin  service-books,  605 
L.  on  atte,  its  meaning,  888 
L.  (B.  K.)  on  author  of  verses  wanted,  228,  874 
L.  (H.  P.)  on  Ballywhaine,  its  etymology,  35 
Cluny  and  Clunie,  471 
Company  of  Bfiners,  498 
Counting  another's  buttons,  16 
Crong,  its  meaning,  488 
Lyngell,  its  meaning,  49 
Malt  and  hop  substitutes,  296 
Rabbating,  iu  meaning,  407 
<•  Right  here,"  45 
Roker,  185 

Rymmyll,  its  meaning,  427 
Ships  of  war  on  land,  236 
Tapping  and  tipping,  191 
Ktleof 'H.B.D.,'847 
*<  To  hold  up  oil,"  ito  meaning,  498 
Woore,  in  Salop,  its  derivation,  262 
L.  (M.  C.)  on  New  England  donation  party,  518 
L.  (N.  P.)  on  Darcy  Lever,  78 
L.  (T.  T.)  on  twentieth-century  medal,  266 
L.  (W.  A.)  on  "  The  Everlasting  Gospel,"  87 
L.  (W.  F.)  on  Byron's  poem  on  Greece,  828 
L.  (W.  H.)  on  chisel  marks,  149 

Tool  marks  on  medieval  dressed  stones,  390 
L.  (X.)  on  "British  Uon" :  "  Russian  bear,"  849 
L.  &  M.  on  ••Four-and-Five,*'  149 
Lability,  use  of  the  word,  886 
La-di-da,  early  use  of  the  word,  426 
Ladle,  use  of  the  word,  467 
Lady  and  gentlewoman,  809 
Ladybird,  Suffolk  name  for,  95,  896 
Laicus  on  Cambridge  University  in  the  seventsi 

century,  888 
Lake,  a  precious  stone,  506 
Lally-Tolendid,  bibliographical  sketch,  803 
Lamb  (Charles),  and  <The  Champion,*  12,  181,  i 
and  Joseph  Paioe,  282  ;  '  To  Margaret  W— ,'  « 
Langboume  (J.)  on  author  of  quotation  wanted,  2i 
Language  to  oonoeal  thought,  57,  156 
Lanted :  to  leint  ale,  its  meaning,  75,  157 
Larpent  (F.)  on  Sargent  family,  829 
'  Lasca,'  American  poem,  109 
*  Last  Judgment,'  picture  attributed  to  Raphael,  4 
Latin  lines,  12,  192 
Latin  motto:    "Scientia  fiduda  planus  piovoeii 

868,  478 
Latin  mottoes,  12,  312,  432 
Latin  pronunciation,  146,  351,  449 
Lattermint,  meaning  of  the  word,  207,  878 
Laughter  and  St.  Christc^her,  247,  366,  484 
Laughton  (J.  K.)  on  canny  :  ohevanz,  their  man 
488 
Kelson  relic,  407 
Laundry  porch,  motto  for,  68,  176,  216 


VotM  and  Queriet,  Jaly  37. 1901. 


INDEX. 


637 


LaTingion  (Joseph),  cL  1709,  rector  of  Newton-Loog 

▼ille,  Baoki,  606 
Law  (E.),  misprintB  in  his  '  Keninngton  Palftoe/  86 
Lawrenoe  (W.  J.)  on  Mra.  Jordan  in  Dublin,  ^21 
Laws  (J.  £.)  on  Marj,  Countess  de  Front»  229 
Lawson  (R.)  on  John  Bright  or  '  Cranford,'  93 
Cortana,  187 
Eliot  (George),  71 

Independent  Oompaay  of  Invalids,  171 
Joanof  Axo,  856 
MediDeval  tithe  barns,  191 
F^-maU  and  golf,  285 
Yeomanry  records,  216 
Lay  canon,  the  offioe,  148, 197,  274,  858 
Laymen  reading  the  lessons  in  cathedrals,  78 
Leadbeater  MH.,  468 
Leather,  searchers  o^  their  duties,  48, 170 
Le  Comn  (Col.  C.  P.)  on  D*Aaveigne  family,  177 
Lee  (A.  C.)  on  Duchess  of  (Tlereland,  485 

**  Money  trusted,"  67 
Leeper  (A.)  on  corpse  on  shipboard,  76 

Earliest  printed  testimony  to  the  fiune  of  Shake- 
speare^ 25 
Laymen  reading  the  lessons  in  cathedrals,  78 
Version  of  lines  wanted,  91 
'  Wedded,'  picture  named,  19 
L^gal  action,  an  interesting,  206 
L^a-Weekes  (B.)  en  apostle  spoons,  850 
Hawthorne  (Nathaniel),  510 
Tinkhame  fiunUy,  272 
Weekee  :  Catlin :  Brocas,  267 
Legend,  old,  107, 197 
Leghorn,  origin  of  the  word,  47, 110,  258 
Leicester  (Peter),  ob.  1776,  his  birthplace,  828 
Leighton  {Lord),  his  <  Wedded,'  19 
Leland  (C.  G.)  on  bottled  ale,  its  invention,  514 
Ohaooer,  doubtful  passages  in,  82 
Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  494 
Lemsistre  (J.  P.),  his  biography,  807,  877 
Leslie  (Major  J.  H.)  on  Company  of  IkOners,  890 
Le  trecente  csriche,  a  field  in  Sicily,  127,  234 
Lever  (Darcy),  his  biography,  1,  73, 173 
Lewis  (H.)  on  **  Put  a  spoke  in  the  wheel,"  128 
Lex  on  brawling,  252 
Leyne  (J.)  on  tapping  and  tipping,  456 
Lights  seen  over  places  where  treasure  is  buried,  47 
Linoohi*s  Inn  Fields,  13, 115 
Lindsay  (C.  L.)  on  Louis  XVI.'s  death,  448 
Lines  on  a  skull,  348 
Lion,  the  British,  origin  of  the  term,  849 
Lists,  official,  289,  411 
Literary  errors,  887 
Littleton's  Latin  Dictionary,  detached  sheet,  11,  295, 

433 
Liveries  of  servants,  mourning,  150,  174,  295 
Livesey  (J.  C.)  on  "  ance  mariole  **  in  a  charter,  47 
Lizard  in  folk-lore,  67,  224,  436 
Lloyd  (L.)  on  lines  on  the  skin,  113 

Morning  glory,  a  flower,  292 
Lock  ehn,  its  etymology,  229,  353,  458 
'  Locrine '  and  Edmund  Spenser,  61,  101,  142,  208, 

261,  824,  384 
Lodge  (P.)  on  Society  of  Apothecaries  of  London,  347 
Lodge  (Sir  T.),  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  127 
Loftie  (W.  J.)  on  execntionB  at  Tyburn  and  elsewhere^ 
210 


Log,  use  and  meanings  of  the  word,  226 

London  (Bishop  of),  his  ftineral,  89,  154,  231,  855 

London,  parks  the  lungs  of;  289 

London,  vanishing :  Christ's  Hospital,  205, 296,  481, 

517 ;  No.  22,  Catherine  Street,  285  ;  812 
London  and  Paris,  routes  between,  in  1843, 114 
London  churches,  monuments  and  brasses  in,  169, 278, 

385 
London  tUbrii  and  Moscow,  166 
London  evening  wpen  and  Queen  Victoria's  faneral, 

165,257 
London  taverns,  old,  69,  154,  236,  309,  854,  432,  518 
London  topography.    See  Landcn,  vamthing. 
Long  (Constance),  her  mother,  8 
Longevity  and  gipnes,  406 
Lord's  Prayer  in  rime,  58 
Lotahs  and  lotus  flowers,  846,  472 
Lotteries,  early,  23 
Lotus  flowers  and  lotahs,  846,  472 
Louis  XVI.,  aooouot  of  his  death,  448 
Low  and  High :  Liberal  and  Conservative^  128,  238 
Lusus  nature,  288,  418 

Lyme  Regis,  restoration  of  ecclesiastical  furniture,  58 
Lyngell,  its  meanings,  49,  814  472 
Lynn  (W.  T.)  on  Ferdinand  Vn.,  165 
Neptune  and  crossing  the  line,  404 
PrMpect^  its  meaning,  486 
"(Jui  Vive?  "245 
Bhododendrons  and  oleanders,  88 
<  Rule,  Britannia,'  its  authorship,  146 
Theodolite,  its  origin,  806 
Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  namse,  893 
Water-vole,  184 
M.  on  apostle  spoons,  410 

Author  and  reference  for  venes  wanted,  195 
Blackstrap,  its  origin,  38 
Bontemps  (Madame),  169 
Dutton  £unily,  293 

Five  o'clock  tea,  when  introduced,  382 
Hume's  portrait,  188 
InocuUtion,  108 
Petering,  195 
Powdenng  gowns,  473 
Throgmorton  (Fra&ds),  875 
M.A.Oxon.  on  codrington,  its  derivation,  28 

Last  male  descendant  of  Daniel  Defoe,  297 
M.  (A.)  on  Boos  &nuly,  169 

Lines  on  a  skull,  348 
M.  (A.  T.)  on  Book  of  Common  Prayer,  126 

Motto  for  laundry  porch,  176 
M.  (D.)  on  sod-widow,  its  meaning,  268 
M.  (F.)  on  darayne,  its  meaning,  288 
Fielding  and  Brillat-Savaiiii,  248 
Lanted  ale,  157 
Nature  myths,  130 
Nursery  rime,  249 
*'  Pamina  and  Tsmino,"  867 
Whately  (Archbishop),  his  *  Looac,'  69 
M.  (G.  Le)  on  the  Duke  of  Normandy,  829 
M.  (H.  E.)  on  Arnold  (Matthew),  77 
Author  of  recitation  wanted,  378 
Caba,  218 

Five  o'clock  tea,  when  introduced,  832 
Folk-lore  :  Devil's  dam  in  a  Cosssok  Stanitsa,  6 
Germ  of  a  modem  centaur-myth,  286 
"  Owl  in  ivy  bush,"  16 


538 


INDEX. 


Notes  and  Qoerlea.  July  27. 1901. 


M.  (H.  R.)  on  Ten  Commandments  in  rime,  53 

M.  (O.  W.)  on  Visitation  nans  at  Chelsea,  1799,  327 

M.  (J.)  on  bibliography  of  universal  history,  488 

Dendritic  markings  in  paper,  389 
M.  (J.  A.  H.)  on  Juggins,  its  meaning,  247 
M.  (J.  W.),  punter,  1S7 
M.  (P.  C.  D  )  on  yisiting  tickets,  149 
M.  (P.  W.  G.)  on  May-water,  its  meaning,  276 
M.  (R.)  on  blankets,  68 

MoUoTem  (J.  B.)  on  best  book  of  the   nineteenth 
oentury,  23 
Bijou  as  a  Christian  name,  48 
Danteiana,  201,  416 

Gladstone  (W.  E.),  statue  of,  108 ;  tragedy  by,  408 
Maohen,  Monmouthshire,  human  remains  found  aA,  126 
Machyn's  *  Diary,'  1550-63,  passage  in,  185 
Mcllquham  (H.)  on  Grierson  of  Dublin,  153 
Mackenzie  (W.  M.)  on  Blue  Beard,  355 
Mackintosh  (Alexander),  his  wife  and  children,  128 
McKnight  (B.)  on  Crosse  Hall,  309 
MaoLeay  family,  308 
Macleod  (N.)  on  Gladstone  volume,  488 
Mac  Michael  (J.  H.)  on  animals  in  people's  insides,  391 
''As  right  as  a  trivet,"  335 
Bandy-legged = knock-kneed,  476 
Books  on  manners,  deportment,  and  etiquette,  516 
«Bull  and  Last,"  254 

"Crown  "  behind  the  Royal  Exchange,  417 
"Crying 'notcheU,'"  74 
^*  Gone  to  Jericho,"  56 
Hawok,  its  meaning,  13 
Hooligan,  114 

Incised  circles  on  stones,  492 
"In  the  swim,"  137 
*<  Let  them  all  come,"  157 
^'  Mad  as  a  hatter,"  its  meaning,  251 
Malt  and  hop  substitutes,  454 
Music  publishers'  signs,  507 
Old  London  taverns,  236,  432 
*  Paddle  yonr  own  Canoe,'  54 
Peaky-blinder,  94 
Petering,  195 

**  Pin  and  Bowl "  as  an  inn  sign,  133 
"  Put  a  spoke  in  the  wheel,'*  258 
Shoehomed,  its  meaning,  394 
"So long,"  233 
Suffolk  name  for  ladybird,  396 
"  To  sit  bodkin,"  its  meaning,  376 
Transvaal  Dutch,  455 

Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  1 82,  263,  493 
Macray  (W.   D.)  on  early  French  edition  of  'The 

Pilgrim's  Progress,'  312 
McTear  (J.  S.)  on  anyone :  everyone,  205 

Deal,  card  term,  6 
Magazine  and  newspaper  statistics,  223 
MHgiant,  Easter,  origin  of  the  name,  34,  136 
Magic,  sympathetic,  266 
Magistrate  on  two  of  a  name  in  one  fiimily,  91 
Magrath  (J.  R.)  on  "Le  trecento  cariche,"  127 
Maguey,  botanical  term,  its  origin,  405 
Major  on  Valia  as  a  female  name,  447 
Makau,  a  precious  stone,  469 
Malet  (Col.  H.)  on  Adam  Buck,  361 
Gun  reports,  493 

Towns  which  have  changed  their  sites,  492 
Malt  and  hop  substitutes,  150,  216,  296,  454 


Malvern,  Burke  on,  68 

Man  disguised  as  woman,  248,  358 

Mantenterie,  meaning  of  the  word,  197 

Manley  (F.  E.)  on  Abbot  of  Westminster's  plot,  19! 

Mann  (Ambrose  Dudley),  his  memoirs,  329 

Manners,  deportment,  and  etiquette,  books  on,  88 

516 
Manningham  and  '  Twelfth  Night,*  205 
Manuranoe,  survival  of  the  word,  125,  274,  336 
Manuscripts  at  Pans,  189,  258 
Marat,  228 

Marchant  (F.  P.)  on  counting  another's  buttons,  15 
Log,  226 

Moscow  and  London  cUbria^  165 
Mussulman  legend  of  Job,  63,  296 
Shakespeariana,  343 
Margery,  Christian  name,  38, 194 
Marriage  custom,  ancient,  in  Northumberland,  6, 13 
quaint,   49,   136  ;    old,    in    Yorkshire,   208,  27 
Gretna  Green,  408 
Marryat  (Thomas),  M.D..  1730-92,  409 
Marshall  (G.)  on  the  battle  of  Fontenoy,  114,  333 

Early  steam  navigation,  133 
Marshall  (J.)  on  bishopric  of  Mons  Maranus,  250 
Campbell  (Rev.  Thomas),  LL.D.,  34 
Carroll  (Sir  William  F.),  his  biography,  27 
Eraser  (Simon).  51,  115,  232 
Moray  (Sir  Robert),  34 
Morning  glory,  a  flower,  292 
Pall-mall  and  golf,  52 
Quotations,  74 

Thorold  (Sir  John),  portrait  of,  155 
Martin    (S.)    on    first    edition    of    'The    Pilgri 
Progress,'  269 
Horses  with  four  white  stockings  toU-firee,  111 
Walton  relic.  410 
Marylebone  Cemetery,  tomb  in,  109 
"  Mary's  Chappel "  on  old  concert  ticket,  168, 275,  i 
Mason  (C.)  on  painted  and  engraved  portraits,  S* 
512 
Roberts  (John),  particulars  of,  268 
Mass^na  and  Suwarroff,  108,  192,  213.  231 
Masters  (M.  T.)  on  Easter  magiant.  34 
Matriculation,  instances  of  early,  117 
Matthews  (J.  H.)  on  atte,  its  meaning,  474 
Bishop's  Head  and  Foot,  471 
Blessing  of  the  throats,  317 
Bonaparte  ballad,  295 
Brasenose  College,  Oxford,  298 
Cole  (Sir  Cornelius),  269 
Grivignce  (Baron)  and  Power,  476 
Pews  annexed  to  houses,  517 
Rawlins- White,  particulars  of,  513 
"So  long,"  234 
Title  of  esquire,  312 
Welsh  manuscript  pedigrees,  213 
l^laxwell  (Sir  H.)  on  American  orthography,  6 
Breckenridge  family,  415 
*♦  Clubbing  the  batulion,"  171 
Confidential  dispatches  in  time  of  war,  250 
Daisy  names,  53 
Douglas  (Sir  James),  93 
English   representative  at  the  funeral  of  A 

ander  I.,  495 
Influenza,  286 
Royal  standard,  176 


VotM  and  QaeriM,  July  27, 1901. 


INDEX. 


539 


Maxwell  (P.)  on  oomic  dialo^e  sermon,  248 

Old  legend,  107 

**  Pamina  and  Tamino/'  454 

Termination  "-itia,"  etymological  explanation  o^ 
468 
May  (M.  O.)  on  lament  for  Chaacer.  167 
Mayall  (A.)  on  atte,  its  meaoing,  474 

Bandy-leggedrsknock-kne^,  124 

Blackstrap,  its  origin,  38 

BlankeU,  156 

Chaucer,  doubtfal  passages  in,  190 

Clony  and  Clanie,  408 

CInzzom,  its  meaning,  70 

Coost,  its  meaning,  518 

Dog  and  the  gamekeeper,  194 

DrMden  Amen,  171 

Easter  magiant,  85 

Friar's  Crag,  Derwentwater,  196 

Friend  of  Phidias,  268 

Heaf,  93 

**  Hatching  aboat,"  its  meaning,  272 

••In  the  swim,"  137 

' '  Life's  work  well  done,"  origin  of  the  lines,  406 

Manurance,  its  meaning,  274 

Margery,  38 

**Majfy'sChappel,"275 

Motto  for  laandry  porch,  176 

*  N.  k  Q.'  in  fiction,  155 

Paolie,  iu  meaning,  257 

Pews  annexed  to  houses,  518 

Questing  beast,  234 

Ronen  and  succedaneum,  215 

Royal  standard,  176 

Tapping  and  tipping,  191 

Thiiunp,  its  meaning,  77 

"There,  but  for  tiie  grace  of  God,"  361 

"  To  palmer,"  52 

Wabbling,  its  derivation,  272 
May  Day  and  May  butter  in  1490,  845 
Mayflower,  the,  and  the  national  flag,  404 
Mayhew  (A.  L.)  on  caendo^oeroando,  238 

Cartcrly,  88 

Date  wanted,  96 

Distinct,  206 

Knievogue,  its  meaning,  69 

Malt  and  hop  substitutes,  215 

Nunty,  130 

Ochidore,  108 

PauUe,  167 

Peers  a  minnow,  210 

Pire,  187 

Poem  by  Dr.  E.  Hatch,  111 

Rouen  and  succedaneum,  214 
Mayor  (J.  E.  B.)  on  John  Pearson,  56 
Mayors  and  town  clerks,  409,  515 
Mayors,  Lord,  unmarried,  insUnoes  o^  428,  513 
May-water  as  a  remedy,  149,  276,  393 
Mealies,  etymology  of  the  word,  445 
Medal,  twentieth-century,  265 
Medallions  on  jug,  95 
Megan  on  Cornish  daisy  names,  428 
Daisy  names,  8,  250 
Duration  of  life  in  seeds,  129,  328 
Flower  divination,  29,  353 
Lamb's  'To  Margaret  W— ,*  328 
Margaret  of  Bavaria,  her  date  of  birth,  251 


Megan  on  Margaret  of  Bourbon,  her  date  of  birth,  251 

Pliny,  translation  of,  wanted,  308 

Steward  (Sir  Simeon),  367 

Suffolk  name  for  ladybird,  96 

Troubadour  and  daisies,  889 
Mein  (£.)  on  "  Pamina  and  Tamino,*'  454 
Melville  (Lord)  on  Bishop  of  London's  ftineral,  231 
Men  wearing  earrings,  192 
Meesiter  surname,  its  derivation,  29 
Methodist  preachers,  memoirs  of  eariy,  29 
Methodists,  early,  and  parish  church,  169 
Menlen  (Van  der)  and  Huchcenburg,  pictures  by,  87, 

117,  463 
Mexico,  designations  of  foreigners  in,  889,  496 
Michell  (A.  T.)  on  Sir  Henry  Ooodyere,  447 

Green  of  Wyken,  his  family,  248 

Vemey  (Sir  Richard),  468 

Wright  of  Hopsford,  date  of  death  o^  309 
Midwife,  installation  of  a,  81,  197,  362 
Mile-End  Gate  pottery,  18 
Bfilitary  punishments,  478 
Mills  (John),  banker,  lines  by,  406 
Milne  (J.)  on  duration  of  life  in  seeds,  487 

Etymology,  29 

Lyngell,  its  meaning,  472 

Royal  surname,  269 

Skulls  on  tombstones,  448 
Milton  (John),  poem  attributed  to,  90,  285 
Miners,  a  company  of,  390,  497 
Minorca,  English  gravestones  in,  46 
Mint  price  of  gold,  127 
Mistakes,  artists',  423,  471 
Mitchell  (Sir  Francis),  his  family,  144 
Mitchell  (CoL  Henry  Hugh),  date  of  birth,  107,  191 
Mitchiner  (J.    H.)   on    the  author  of  *The   Devil's 

Walk,'  268 
Mohun  of  WoUaston,  pedigree  o^  128 
Moline  family,  448 

Molony  (H.)  on  Ipplepen,  oo.  Devon,  217 
Money  trusted,  story  of,  67,  190 
Monkeys,  article  on,  73 
Monolith  with  cupmarkings  in  Hyde  Park,  69,  115, 

196   292 
Mons  Maranus,  bishopric  of,  208,  250 
Montorgueil  (G.)  on  J.  G.  Lemaistre,  807 
Monuments  in  Gilling  Church,  189 
Moon  lore,  27,  96, 154 
Moons,  paschal,  toble  of,  48,  96 
Moore  (Thomas),  lines  in  '  A  Dream  of  EKndostan,'  85  ; 

his  Commonplace  Book,  347 
Moorhouse  (LieuL-CoK),  his  descendants,  18,  70 
Moray  (Sir  Robert),  portrait  of,  34 
Morehead  (William).  1687-92,  his  biography,  329 
Morgan  (G.  B.)  on  Browne  family,  430 
Morice  (John),  F.8.A.,  his  biography,  850 
Morier  (James  Justinian),  his  *  Adventures  of  Hajji 

Bab^'  129 
"  Morning  glory,"  variety  of  convolvulus,  209,  292,  417 
Morris  (E.  E.)  on  Ulrickstadt,  49 
Morris  (William)  as  a  man  of  business,  54,  118,  172, 

296,  431 
Morsay  or  Marsay  (Count),  249,  851 
Mortimer  (Robert)  and  the  Mortimers  of  Wigmore,  408 
Mortimer  &mily,  208 
Morwood  (Mr.  Vernon  S.)*  89 
Moscow  and  London  cUbnt^  165 


540 


INDEX. 


Notes  and  Qaeriet,  July  71,  IfO! 


Moeeley  (B.  D.)  on  bell-ringing  at  wakes,  294 

Lamb  (Charles)  and  '  The  Champion,'  181 

Peaky-blinder,  28 
Motto :  •*  Non  tenrn  sed  aqnis/'  247,  895 
Motto  for  laundry  poroh,  68, 176,  216 
Motto  on  Bnndia(  467 
Mottoes,  Latin,    12,   812,  482;    '*8oientU    fldneift 

plenns  proyocare^**  868,  478 
Monnt  (C.  B.)  on  ecclesiastical  pecnliars,  421,  468 

iTOlepen,  oo.  Devon,  118,  297 
Monming,  pablic,  150,  174,  295 
Mngginton,  Derbyshire,  m  legend  of,  265 
MtiUer  (Max)  and  Westminster  Abbey,  88 
Mnlock  (Thomas  Samael),  1789-1869,  his  bi<Mrr»phy, 

482,  501 
MonmierieB,  Plough  Monday,  822,  868,  477 
Municipal  ooinddencei^  409,  515 
Munsie,  its  etymology,  295 
Murray  (D.)  on  Breckenridge  family,  415 
Murray  (J.  A.  H.)  on  jerxy-build  :  jerry-built,  305 

Keel,  65 

"SaiBon  stones,"  270 

Surnames,  271 
Musha,  Irish  form  of  the  word,  18 
Music  publishers'  ^pis,  507 
Mussulman  legend  of  Job^  68,  190,  296 
Mntiktions,  yoluntaiy,  in  France,  27 
Mydddton  (T.  C.)  on  date  wanted,  287 
Myths,  n»tni«,  4,  85, 180 
N.  or  M.  in  the  Prayer  Book,  867 
N.  (M.)  on  oath  of  aUegiance,  287 
N.  (T.)  on  Mrs.  Arbuthnott,  187 

Easter  magiant,  186 
Name,  Christian,  two  in  one  £Mnily  bearing  same,  5, 

91 ;  sisters  bearing  same,  486 
Names,  proper,  verbs  formed  out  of,  182, 268,  898, 498 
Napoleon  and  a  coat  of  mail,  467 
National  nicknames,  185  258 
Nature  myths,  4,  85, 180 
Nannton  nunily,  54 
Nautical  terms  :  jury,  197 
Navigation,  early  steam,  16,  183,  252 
Negro  boy,  spotted,  258 
Nelson  (Lord),  picture  of  his  death,  867,  411 ;  relic 

of,  407 
Neptune  and  crossing  the  line,  404 
Newall  ( W.)  on  origin  of  the  "  Flying  Dutchman,"  808 

'  Troth  of  aUbert  h  Beckett,'  849 
Newspaper  and  magazine  stadstios,  223 
Newspapers,  London  evening,  and  Queen  Viotoria's 

funeral,  165,  257 
Nichols  (John),  his  epitaph,  189,  232 
Nichohwn  (B.)  on  horses  with  four  white  stockings  toll- 
free,  111 

Troy  weight  for  bread,  90 

Verge  and  yard,  281 
moholson  (^r  Francis),  1660-1728,  28 
Nicknames,  national,  135,  258 
Nineteenth  century,  best  book  of  the,  23 
Noble,  the  word  in  Swiss  genealogical  tree,  208,  290 
Nooth  (Dr.  J.  Mervin),  his  biography,  87 
Nomte  (F.)  on  Anthony  de  Solemne,  first  printer  at 

Norwich,  1665-80,  241 
Norman  (P.)  on  ancient  marriage  custom  in  North- 
umberland, 6 
Norman  (W.)  on  *' Jeber's  cooks,"  148 


Norman  (W.)  on  Trinity  Hall  Chapel,  425 
Norman  (W.  M.)  on  acacia  in  Freemasonry,  9 
Normandy  (Duke  of),  disuse  of  the  title,  329,  452 
North  (P.)  on  <*  All  roads  lead  to  Borne,"  511 
"J'aivAju,''198 
Quotations,  497 
Northumberland,  ancient  marriage  custom  in,  6,  l\ 
NotoheU:  <*  Crying  <notchell,'"  its  etymoloKy,  74 
'  Notes  and  Queries,'  indexes  to,  26  ;  ootreotifliis 
General   Indexes,   43,  164 ;    in  fiction,  85.  II 
value  of  complete  set,  320 ;  for  sale,  887,  520 
Notsram  on  Boston  local  records,  428 
Nottingham  and  Notts,  47 
Notts  and  Nottingham,  47 
Numbers,  odd,  and  Arabs,  225  ;  and  luck,  227 
Nuns,  Visitation,  at  Chelsea,  1799,  327 
Nunty,  dialect  word,  130, 194,  291 
Nursery  rimes,  18,  249 
O.  on  fortune-telling  at  Bideford,  866 
Mile-End  Gate  pottery,  18 
Trunk  or  box,  55 
Oath  of  allegiance  and  Roman  Catholicism,  287 

Obituaries : — 

Besant  (Sir  Walter),  480 

Binns  (R.  W.),  40 

ChriBtie  (R.  C),  60 

CleveUmd  (Duchess  of),  420 

BUis  (Frederick  S.),  200 

HaU  (Dr.  Hitiedward),  140 

Morgan  (Henry  East),  400 

Smidi  (Baril  Woodd),  100 

Smith  (George  Murray),  800 

Sykes  (John),  800 

Tate  (Kev.  W.  R.),  60 

Victoria  Regina  et  Imperatrix,  61 
Ochidore,  its  etymology,  108 
Odd  numbers  and  Indc,  227 
'  Ode  to  the  North  Cape,'  187 
Odell  (F.  J.)  on  a  Latin  motto,  868 
OflBce-bcttrer  on  meaning  of  **  beneh,"  487 
Officials,  hereditaiT,  865 
O'Hanlon  (Mrs.  M.)  on  Adiill  Island,  133 
"  Old  Curionty  Shop,"  original,  509 
Oleanders  and  rhododendrons,  88,  117,  171 
Oliver  (A.)  on  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields,  116 

Movable  stocks,  214 

"  Old  Curioadty  Shop,"  609 

Old  London  taverns,  354 

Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  495 
OUis  (J.  A.)  on  author  and  ref«srence  wanted,  35 

Poem  by  the  Ute  Dr.  £.  Hatdi,  29 
Ombo  (K.)  on  lay  canon,  148 
Omnibus  knifeboard,  eariy  use  of  the  word,  487 
One  of  Them  on  universi^  degrees,  829 
Onions,  spring,  banquet  at  Bourne,  Lincolnshire^ 
Oratory,  Bngluh,  books  on,  427 
Orb,  the,  its  symboUc  meaning,  227 
Order  of  the  Gktfter,  queens  memben  of,  166;  857 
Orientation  m  interments,  195,  888,  481 
OrienUtion  of  churches  and  the  exigencies  of 

troversy,  503 
Ornithology  of  Cambridgeshire,  426 
Orthography,  American,  6,  227,  298,  858,  418 
Ould  (S.  G.)  on  Charies  Bsrbandt,  or  Barba&l,  87 
Dresden  Amen,  87,  215 


NotM  and  QoeriM.  July  37. 1901. 


INDEX. 


541 


Owen  (D.)  on  ranic  inieription  found  in  St,  Pmmi1*s 
Churchyard,  S38 
Palmer,  its  meaning,  157 
Owen  (J.  P.)  on  dude,  16 

St  Christopher  and  laughter,  434 
Owen  (Robert),  of  New  Lanark,  9 
Oxford  (A.   W.)  on   king's  preacher  Mspointed   by 

Edward  VI.,  27 
Oxford,  Brawnoee  College,  founder  of,  92, 157, 285, 298 
Oxford  and  Cambridge  graduates,  lists  of,  269 
Oxford  University,  Queen's  College,  246 
'  Oxford  University  Calendar,'  first  issue,  809 
P.  on  Philip  Kent,  174 
P.  (J.  B.)  on  cap  of  maintenance,  192 

Lever  (Darcy),  73 
P.  (M.)  on  blood  as  a  prophylactic,  509 
Money  trusted,  190 
Telegraphy,  its  invention,  446 
P.  (P.  R)  on  the  Browne  &mily,  889 
P.  (W.  M.)  on  charter  conditions,  289 
Pabeinham  (8ir  Lawrence),  his  biography,  73 
Pack-ssddles  v.  carriages,  92 
Page  (J.  T.)  on  an  American  invasion,  358 
Blankets,  156 
Bumham  &mily,  455 
Chartres  (Rev.  James),  447 
Coat  of  arms,  68 

Defoe  (Daniel),  last  male  descendant  of,  895 
Flower  game,  474 
Fosoolo  (Ugo)  in  London,  476 
Funeral  cards,  832 
Gladstone  statue,  177 

Gossage  of  Spration,  Northamptonshire,  155 
Hatton's  (Sir  Christopher)  monument,  410 
High  and  Low :  Conservative  and  Liberal,  128 
"  Hutching  about,"  ito  meaning,  272 
Jesse  and  Selwyn,  274 

Johnson  (Robert),  Sheriff  of  London,  1617,  418 
Keech,  its  meaning,  94 
London  evening  paper,  257 
Old  London  taverns,  513 
Pope's  epitaphs  in  use,  246 
Turner  (J.  M.  W.),  48 
Vanishing  London  :  Christ's  Hospital,  481 
Pagett  (Henry),  of  Knockglaea,  oo.  Mayo,  348 
PiHy^nation  of  books,  316 
Paice  (Joseph)  and  Charles  Lamb,  232 
Palamedes  on  King,  translator  of  the  Erse  Old  Testa- 
ment, 8 
Palestinian  Syriac  interrogative,  105 
Pall-mall  and  ffolf,  accounts  of  the  games,  52,  285,  852 
Pahner  :  to  pslmer,  its  etymology,  62,  157 
Palmer  (A.  S.)  on  knievogue,  178 

Musha,14 
"  Pamina  and  Tamino  "  in  Goethe's  '  Hermann  and 

Dorothea,'  367,  454 
Papal  fleet  and  the  battle  of  Varna,  405 
Pi^^r,  dendritic  markings  in,  389,  477 
Paris  and  London,  routes  between,  in  1843,  114 
Parish  church  and  early  Methodists,  169 
Parks  the  lungs  of  London,  289 
Parliament,  three  Estates  in,  9  ;  petition  to,  1780, 12  ; 

English  members  of,  310 
Parlour,  origin  and  use  of  the  word,  889 
Parr  (John),  Mayor  of  Liverpool,  1773, 149, 272 
Parrot  in  '  Hndibras,'  292 


Panr  (G.  &)  on  Boca  Chioa,  155 

Panuumy,  English,  and  the  oat|  418 

Parsley  and  Good  Friday,  264 

Ptechal  moons,  tabla  o(  48,  96 

Passy  or  Passey  &mily,  their  arms,  71 

Patching  (J.)  on  *  Book- World,*  276 

Paterson  (A.)  on  hand-ruling  on  old  title-pages^  881 

Journalistic  errors,  352 
Patmors  (Coventry)  and  Swedenborg,  845,  411 
PMiton  (Sir  Noel),  his  picture '  The  Pursuit  of  Pleasure^' 


Patterson  (W.  H.)  on  verses  on  the  Irish  ikmine,  251 
Paulie,  dialect  word,  ito  etymoloffy,  167,  257 
Peaohey  (G.  C.)  on  installation  oTa  midwife,  352 
Lista  of  Oxford  and  Cambridge  graduates^  869 
Ring  of  Elizabeth,  438 
Safiford  family  in  Somersetshire,  233 
Smith  (Richard),  surgeon,  of  Bristol,  169 
Peacock  (E.)  on  apostle  spoons,  411 
Cooper  (CoL  Thomas),  358 
Funeral  cards,  171 
"  Qnj  groat,"  ito  meaning,  505 
Movable  stocks,  14 
Ring  of  Elizabeth,  488 
Roman  Catholic  records,  471 
St  Christopher  and  laughter,  356 
Scottish  names  in  Froissart,  95 
Uphill  zigzag,  92 
West-Count^men's  tails,  410 
Peacock  (J.)  on  Stanbury  of  Devon  and  Cornwall,  274 
Peacock  (M.)  on  Plough  Monday  mummeries,  822, 868 
Peaky-blinder=hooli^  in  the  Midlands,  28,  94 
Pearson  (John),  Bishop  of  Chester,  1673,  56 
Pecchio  (Count  Giuseppe),  author,  51,  191,  398 
Peculian,  ecclesiastical,  421,  463 
Pedigrees,  Welsh  manuscript,  131,  218,  492 
Peel  (Sir  Robert),  quotation  on,  207 
Peer«a  minnow,  use  of  the  word,  210 
Peeress,  dowager,  retention  of  titie  by,  468,  510 
Pennant  (T.),  his  *  Tours  in  Wales,'  rare  edition,  67 
Pennsylvanian  on  heraldic,  117 
Penny  (F.)  on  Job  Chamock,  74 
Moorhouse  (Lieut.-Col.),  70 
Penny's  (Mrs.)  *  Fort  St.  George,'  846 
Penny  (Mrs.),  corrections  in  her  '  Fort  St.  George,' 

846 
Penny,  first  issue  of  the,  88 
Pens :  nibs  and  nebs,  839,  516 
PereUe  (Nicholas),  b.  1638,  etchings  by,  287,  312 
Peremptory,  a,  use  and  meaning  of  the  word,  489 
Peridot,  perited,  or  pilidod,  215 
Personates^ resound,  478 
Petering,  meaning  and  derivation,  29,  195,  351 
Petherick    (B.   A.)    on   voyages  and  travels  issued 

anonymously,  227 
Petition  to  Parliament,  1780,  12 
Petty  (S.  L.)  on  age  of  entry  at  Inns  of  Court,  452 
Dendritic  markings  in  paper,  477 
Dutton  family,  117 
Pews  annexed  to  houses,  388,  517 
Phidias,  the  friend  of,  268 
Phillippo  surname,  ito  meaning,  468 
PhiUipe  (G.)  on  searchers  of  leather,  48 
Phillips  (W.)  on  Francis  Throgmorton,  89 
Philoscriblerius,  pseudonym  of  James  Moore  Smitii,  75 
Phrases,  origin  of  current,  58 


542 


INDEX. 


NotM  and  QueriM,  July  27.  1901. 


Piekford  (J.)  on  Abbot  of  Westmiiuter's  plot,  1899,84 
AnimalB  in  people*!  inaides,  383,  391 
Anmdel :  W»lden,  386 
Attwood  family,  93 
Ceesar  (JqIiiib),  37 
GhiBel  markB,  296 
Crioket,  early  lines  on,  72 
Doke  of  Bolton's  Regiment,  52 
Five  o'clock  tea,  96 
Fontenoy,  battle  of,  212 
Pofloolo  (Cgo)  in  London,  151 
Fnwer  (Simon),  115 
Ghravestone  at  Waltham  Abbey,  46 
Hume's  portrait,  272 
Inscription  in  Rinnel  Church,  208 
Jowett's  liUle  garden,  512 
Jury  in  nantic^  terms,  197 
London  churches,  335 
Lyngell,  its  meaning,  472 
Movable  stocks,  14 
'  Oxford  Univernty  Calendar,*  when  first  issued, 

309 
Plough  Monday  mummeries,  477 
Queen's  College,  Oxford,  246 
Reminiscence  of  1837,  223 
Roman  steelyard  weights,  817 
Sargent  family,  482 
Scottish  dance,  5 
Shuter  (Ned),  209 
Striking  the  anvil,  72 
Sub  :  subsist  money,  356 
Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  494 
Victoria  (Queen),  coronation  of.  346 
Pidding^n  (J.  G.)  on  apparitions,  430 
Pierpoint  (R.)  on  Brasenose  College,  Oxford,  157 
Man^nterie,  197 
Quotations,  170 

Seneca  and  Gralen,  translations  wanted,  132 
Pigeon  cotes,  ancient,  15,  116,  216,  318 
Pig  killing  in  the  wane  of  the  moon,  93 
Pigott  (W.  J.)  on  Mackintosh,  128 

Pagett  (Henry),  348 
Pillar  and  ^avelage  tax,  81, 141 
*'  Pin  and  Bowl,"  inn  sign,  133 
Pinhoen,  a  ghost- word,  its  etymology,  205,  272 
Pink  (W.  D.)  on  Sir  William  F.  CarroU,  135 
Century  incident,  remarkable,  105 
Collet,  particulars  of,  269 
Ooningsby  (Humphrey),  of  Hampton  Court,  co. 

Hereford,  349 
Cooke  (Sir  Thomafi),  429 
Cooper  (George),  date  of  death  of,  449 
Cooper  (Col.  Thomas),  438 
Estoott  (Richard)  de  Lanceston,  512 
Everett-Green  (Mrs.  M.  A.).  8 
Jones  (John),  the  regicide,  372 
Official  lists,  289 

Pabeinham  (Sir  Lawrence),  his  biography,  73 
Pym  (Alexander),  181 
Warren  (Sir  John  Borlase),  92 
Pinna,  beard  of  the,  and  silk  manufacture,  428 
**  Pint  umbit "  in  Edwards's   *  Shaksper,  not  Shake- 
speare,' its  meaning,  489 
Pitcher  of  water  in  death  chamber,  69 
Pixy  on  Stanbury  of  Devon  and  Cornwall,  473 
Pize,  etymology  of  the  word,  187 


Place-name,  formatbn  of  a,  105 

Place-names,  Comivh,  their  meaning  and  derivation, 

488 
Piatt  (J.),  Jun.,  on  Anglo-Hebrew  slang :  kybosh,  276 
C^w-craw,  its  etymology,  847 
Designation  of  foreign«is  in  Mexico^  496 
Dual  nmnber  in  provincial  German,  517 
Gancho,  86 

Hago,  its  meaning,  478 
Ipplepen,  oo.  Devon,  118 
Iveagn,  co.  Down,  428 
Kinkajou,  Ecological  term,  886 
Leghorn,  111 

Maguey,  origin  of  the  term,  405 
Mealies,  its  meaning,  445 
Musha,  its  meaning,  13 
Pinhoen,  a  ghost-word,  205 
Sarigue,  zoological  term,  166 
Shinmiozzel,  130 
Toucan,  its  meaning,  486 
Zareba  or  Zeriba,  224 
PUybiU,  St.  Helena,  285 
Plays,  plots  of;  145 

Pliny,  translation  of  his  *  Historia  Natoralia,*  308 
Plough  Monday  mummeries,  822,  SG3,  477 
Plowrsplough,  280 

Pococke  (Richard).  1704-65,  in  the  'D.N.B.,'  46 
Poet  Laureate's  birthplace,  426 
Point  de  Galle,  derivation  of  the  place-name,  185 
Poison  in  beer,  105 
Pollard  (M.)  on  runic  inscription  foond  in  St.  Psul'i 

Churchyard,  888 
Pollard- Urquhart  (F.  E.  R.)  on  disgaiae  of  man  u 
woman,  858 
Irish  wills,  71 
Pollard-Urquhart  (J.)  on  Comtesse  de  S^jgnr,  493 

London  churches,  278 
Polyxena  and  ass-driver,  story  of,  4 
Pompey  and  CsBsar,  268 
Ponsonby  (G.)  on  Mrs.  Arbuthnot,  298 
Poole  (M.  £.)  on  the  *  B^'ou  Almanack,'  372 
Pope  (Alexander),  epiUphs  in  West  Haddon  Church- 
yard by,  246  ;  passage  in  his '  Temple  of  Fame,'  309, 
876  ;  'Duociad'  bibliography,  849 
Popham  (J.  S.)  on  dog  and  gamekeeper,  194 

May-water,  149 
Population  of  towns  prior  to  official  censuses,  168 
Port  (Peter  de  la),  director  of  the  iSouth  Sea  Com- 
pany, 508 
Portall  or  screen  in  church,  425 
Porte-manteau  in  diplomacy,  478 
Portmanteau-word,  60 
Portraits,  painted  and  engraved,  catalogues  o^  841, 

438,  470,  512 
Portugal  (Isabel  of),  date  of  her  death,  428 
Pottery,  Mile-End  Gate,  18 
Potts  (R.  A.)  on  author  of  hymn  wanted,  282 
Powdering  gown,  268,  374,  473 
Powdering  slippers,  488 

Power  (Michael  N.)  and  Baron  Grivignoe,  409,  476 
Pratt  (G.  F.)  on  kittywitch,  9 
Prendergast  (H.)  on  gast,  its  meaning,  808 
Preston  (W.  E.)  on  Bradford  token,  408 
Price  (F.  G.  H.)  on  the  penny,  38 
Prickard  (A.  O)  on  motto  fo  laondxy  porch»  215 
Prideaux  (W.  F.)  on  an  American  invasioii,  418 


Notes  and  Queries,  July  37, 1901. 


INDEX. 


543 


Piideaux  (W,  F.)  on  Berners  family,  70 

'*  CftrkiDg  care,"  its  meaning,  426 

Edward  VlVa  tiUe  in  ScoUand,  31 7 

Fantastic  fiction,  290 

Johnson  (Dr.),  295 

Jonson  (Beo),  unpublished  verses  by,  46 

Lamb  (Charles)  and  <The  Champion,'  213 

Nature  myths,  35 

Queens  members  of  the  Order  of  the  Garter,  357 

St.  Clement  Danes,  64,  274 

Stow's  (John)  portrait,  1608,  513 

Tyburn,  manor  of,  381 
Prideaux  (W.  R.  B.)  on  inoculation,  212 

Balegb  8  signature,  7 

Seneca  and  Galen  :  translations  wanted,  258 
Printer^s  proof  of  poems,  187 
Prisoners  of  war  in  English  literature,  469 
Pronunciation  of  wordB :   dude,    15 ;  dodo,  16 ;    in- 
undate, 71 ;  Greek  and  Latin,  146,  351,  449 
Prophylactic,  blood  as  a,  509 
Prospect,  use  of  the  word  in  Authorized  Versioii,  486 

Prorerbi  and  Phraiei :— 

A  rat  without  a  Uil,  486 

Ah  '11  travis  ther,  445 

Albert  the  Good,  88 

Ance  mariole,  47|  95  . 

As  right  as  a  trivet,  227,  385 

Between  the  devil  and  the  deep  sea,  449 

Carking  care,  426 

Clubbing  the  battalion,  110,  171,  314 

Gone  to  Jericho,  55,  472 

Grand  tour,  509 

Half  rat  and  half  weasel,  269 

Hutching  about,  165,  271 

In  the  John  Trott  way,  48 

In  the  swim,  29, 137,  237 

J*ai  v^u,  105,  198 

Le  roy  le  veult,  264 

Let  them  all  come,  35, 157 

Life  is  not  all  beer  and  skittles,  88 

Lungs  of  London,  89 

Mad  as  a  hatter,  251,  396 

Mere  man,  506 

Owl  in  ivy  bush,  16,  116 

Peace  with  honour,  240 

Put  a  spoke  in  the  wheel,  128,  258 

Qui  Vive  t  245,  336,438 

Quot  Ungual  calles,  tot  homines  vales,  297 

So  long,  129,  233,297 

Straight  off,  360 

Time  was  made  for  slaves,  109 

To  hold  op  oil,  493 

To  join  issue,  405 

To  sit  bodkin,  228,  376 

To  trunk  up,  165 

Under  weigh,  89 
Public  mourning,  150,  174,  295 
Puncknowle,  Dorset,  bell  inscription  at^  date  1629,  365 
Purbeck  (Ladv)  and  her  son,  389,  456 
Puteanus  on  the  D*Auvergne  faniily,  332 
Pym  (Alexander),  Sheriff  of  Somerset,  1650-1,  181 
Pyne  (C.  A)  on  Simon  Fraser,  232 
Q.  (A.  N.)  on  brawUng,  227 

Edward  VII.'s  title  in  Scotland,  225 

Lady  barrister,  the  first,  205 


Q.  (A.  N.)  on  <  Lass  of  Richmond  Hill,'  169 

Stock  Exchange  centenary,  406 

Sydenham  Wells  Park,  445 
Quarrell  (W.  H.)  on  apparition,  267 

Barry  (Dr.),  448 

Legend  of  Muggintoo,  Derbyshire,  265 

Monolith  with  cup-markings  in  Hyde  Park,  116 

Motto  for  laundry  porch,  176 
Quarto  :  folio,  use  of  the  words,  185 
Queen's  College,  Oxford,  the  patrons  ot  246 
Queens  members  of  the  Order  of  the  G«rter,  166,  357 
"  Questing  beast,"  mentioned  in  Malory,  149,  234 
Quotation,  an  adulterate,  5 

Qnotationi  :— 

A  certain  tender  bloom  his  fS^e  o'erspread,  388 
A  man  cannot  enter  twice  into  the  same  river,  506 
A  sense  of  joy  to  the  bare  trees  and  mountains 

bare,  388 
A  ship  came  sailing  o'er  the  sea,  330 
All  roads  lead  to  Rome,  427,  511 
And  Judgment  at  the  helm  was  set,  90,  398 
And  snatching,  as  they  [<e.  the  years]  go,  110,  198 
And  the  night  shall  be  fill'd  with  music,  440 
And  visions,  as  poetic  eyes  avow,  388 
Battle  over,  sleep  in  clover,  8 
Beats  the  strong  heart,  8 
Beauty  out  of  favour  and  on  crutches,  388 
Better  to  have  loved  and  lost,  125,  236 
Blood  he  had  view*d,  8,  292 
Calm  contemplation  and  poetic  ease,  388 
Cette  longne  et  cruelle  maladie  qu'on  appelle  la 

vie,  497 
Cold  water  is  the  best  of  drinks,  90, 198 
Oredat  Judeus  Apella,  240 
De  male  qusesitis  vixgaudet  tertius  hsres,  74, 170 
Est  rosa  flos,  170 
For  he  had  heard  of  battles,  8 
From  the  still  glassy  lake  that  sleeps,  330 
€rod  only  knows,  and  none  but  He,  510 
Great  is  the  crime  in  man  or  woman,  120 
He  died  and  bequeathed  to  his  son  a  good  name,  8 
How  happy 's  the  soldier,  8,  332 
I  am  Sir  Oracle,  440 
I  do  love  these  ancient  ruins,  460 
I  hate  all  kings  and  the  thrones  they  sit  on,  27 
I  saw  a  falling  leaf  soon  strew,  148 
I  saw  a  Judas  once,  369,  468 
I  've  lived  to  see  how  pride  may  part,  369 
Kind  and  affiible  to  me  had  been  his  condescension, 

388 
Le  divorce  est  le  sacremeot  de  Tadultbre,  497 
Les  anois,  oes  parents  que  Tou  se  fait  soi-m6me,  497 
Life's  work  well  done,  369,  406 
Like  strength  reposing  on  his  own  right  arm,  388, 

458 
Man  is  bound  to  expend  every  particle  of  strength, 

369 
Maxima  in  minimis  natura,  497 
Mira  cano  :  sol  oocubuit :  nox  nulla  secuta  est,  74 
Mourir  u'est  rien,  o'est  notre  demiere  heure,  497 
Nemo  potest  impetrare  a  papa  buUam  nnnquam 

moriendi,  497 
I         Obscurity  her  curtain  round  them  drew,  388 

Oh  memory!   shield  me  firom  the  world's  poor 
'  strife,  388 


544 


INDEX. 


Notat  and  Qnerlat,  Julj  ST.  If 


Qnotfttioni : — 

PUys  are  a  mirror,  148 

Qaoid  moricii  non  mordent,  308 

Rejoioe  that  man  ii  hnrled,  830,  898 

Sien  redheroher, — Bien  rejetter,  90 

Sheepekini,  beeswax,  putty,  pitch,  and  plaiter,  489 

The  flolden  rood,  the  tordi,  the  long  prooeaion,  510 

The  hand  that  rocki  the  cradle,  420 

The  priest  who  slew  the  slayer,  330 

There,  but  for  the  grace  of  Ood,  269,  851 

They  eat  and  drink  and  scheme  and  plod,  298 

Thou  cam'st  not  to  thy  pbMe  bv  accident,  830, 898 

Thou  canst  not  name  one  tender  tie,  8 

Tismight  half  slumbering  on  its  own  right  arm, 
458 

Tout  laioe-  tout  casse^tout  passe,  247 

UbiUpsost  quid  fecit  74 

Un  livre  est  un  ami  qui  ne  trompe  jnmais,  497 

Vn  seul  endroit  y  mmie,  et  de  ce  ssul  endroit,  497 

Veuve   d*un  peuple-roi,  mais  reine  encore   du 
monde,  497 

We  live  in  deeds,  not  years,  880,  898 

We  perceive  a  softness  coming  over  the  heart  of 
a  nation,  388 

What  do  we  hire  our  ministers  for  if  not  to  stop 
deluaon  ?  489 

When  kte  within  the  Caspian  Sea,  489 

When  the  wine  is  good  and  the  purse  is  full,  248 
Quotations  from  Shakespeare  on  wall  calendan,  202, 

884,  478 
B.  on  dowager  peeresses,  468 

Huitson  fiunily,  129 

Stanbury  of  I>evon  and  Cornwall,  128 
B.  (A.  F.)  on  interesting  l^gal  action,  206 

"Twopenny  Tube,*'^ 29 
B.  (D.  M.)  on  Barclays  of  Mathers,  809 

Bose  and  Zorzi  families,  68 
B.  (J.)  on  boulder  stones,  27 

Gk>od  Friday  and  paisley,  264 
B.  (J.  A.)  on  Charles  Lamb  and  *  The  Champion,'  131 
B — n  (J.  F.)  on  hedge  in  Bacon's  essay  '  On  Gardens,* 
489 

"John  Company,"  34 
B.  (N.  K)  on  lines  on  the  skin,  27 
B.  (Y.)  on  definition  of  gratitude,  172 

Johnson  (Dr.),  176 
B.  (W.)  on  "  Non  tern  sed  aquis,"  247 
Babbating,  use  of  the  word  by  Shakespeare,  407 
Babelais  and  the  knavish  Shakespeare,  162,  255,  380, 

474 
Baddiffe  (J.)  on  Arrand  and  Darrand,  75 

Arundel:  Walden,  155 

•Attur.  Acad.,' 198,  519 

Authors  of  books,  277 

Barclays  of  Mathers,  412 

"  BuU  and  Last,"  255 

CanroU  (Sir  WiUiam  F.),  134 

'Essence  of  Malone,' 197 

Feigaunt,  a  somame,  388 

Oast,  a  £unily  name,  418 

Jones  (John),  the  regicide,  378 

Lyngell,  its  meaning,  814 

*'  Mon  terra  sed  aquis,"  a  motto,  895 

Normandy  (Duke  of),  452 

Pabeinham  (Sir  Lawrence),  his  biography,  73 

Pair  (John),  Mayor,  1778,  272 


Baddiffe  (J.)  on  Passy  or  Paasey,  71 

Boos  fiunily,  294 

Koyal  standard,  858 

Visitation  of  Suflblk,  175 

WyviU  baronetcy,  185 
Balegh  (Sir  W.),  his  signature^  7, 158,  191,  455 
Bam  hunting  and  Eton  College,  95,  196 
Bandolph  (J.  A.)  on  oounU  abb^rs,  827 
B^diael,  picture  attributed  to,  408 
Bat,  the,  its  introduction  into  Europe,  428 
Batdiffe  (T.)  on  Anglo-Hebrew  slang :  kybosh,  2* 

Become,  its  meaning,  277 

Blackheads,  253 

Centipedes,  local  name,  895 

*'  Close-eyed,"  iU  meaning,  269 

'*  Devil's  broth,"  its  meaning,  266 

Fair  and  making  fair,  446 

<*  Half  rat  and  half  weasel,"  269 

**  Hutching  about,"  its  meaning,  272 

Powdering  gown,  374 

Shoehomed,  its  meaning,  394 

Whifflers  and  whifBing,  254 
Baven^  family  of  St.  Buitatius,  308 
Bawlms  (F.)  on  Bawlins- White,  428 
Bawlins-White,  Beformation  martyr,  428,  518 
Bayner  (T.)  on  *  The  Troth  of  Gilbert  h  Bad 

487 
Bead  (F.  W.)  on  healing  stone,  185 
Beade  (A.  L.)  on  Davenport-Hulme,  129 

Mulock  (Thomas  ^^unud),  1787-1869,  482,  5 
Beading,  arms  in  8t.  Msiy*8  Church,  488 
Bechabites,  the,  and  the  Fortunate  Islands,  14 
Becitation,  *The  Way  of  the  World,'  authcr  wmi 

150,  287,  878 
Records,  Boman  Catholic,  389,  471 
Bed  Cross  on  the  acacia  in  Freemasonry,  213 
Begimental  losses  in  the  American  Civil  War,  18S 
Begiment  that  declined  to  go  to  India,  329 
Beid  (A.  6.)  on  Michael  Bruce  and  Buzns^  466 

Galluses = braces^  155 

Inscription  in  the  metaphysics  classroom  in  E 
burgh  University,  485 

**  Money  trusted,"  190 

Trental=  "  month's  mind,"  91 
Beminiscence,  an  earlv,  1887,  228 
Bhododendrons  and  oleanders,  88, 117, 171 
Biddle,  '*  I  sit  on  a  rock,"  828 
Bight,  vulgar  misuse  of,  49,  271,  396 
**  Uight  here,"  use  of  the  expression  in  old  meti 

romances,  45 
Bime,  the   Lord's  Prayer  and  the  Ten  Cauam 

mentsin,  53 
Bimes,  nursery,  18,  249  ;  ladybird,  95,  396 
Bing  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  868,  438 
Binnd  Church,  inscription  in,  108,  315 
Rivett-Camac  (J.  H.)  on  Coronation  Stone,  309 

Downing  Street,  92 

G^ealogical  trees,  71 

Healing  stones,  335 

Heraldic,  87 

Horses  with  four  white  stoddnga  toU-fraa,  11! 

Indsed  circles  on  stones,  491 

Lizard  folk-lore,  224 

Monolith  with  cup-markingi  in  Hyde  Fuk, 
195 

Moon  lore,  27 


HotM  and  Queries,  July  27, 1901. 


INDEX. 


545 


ivett-CMmac  (J.  H.)  on  noble,  290 

Roman  steelyard  weighU,  817 

Snperatitions  relating  to  animals  in  India,  225 
k>bbin8  (A.  F.)  on  Ricfaiurd  Ettoott  de  Lanoetton,  444 

Exeter  Theatre  in  1348,  606 

"  Let  them  all  oome,*'  85 

Peremptory,  its  meaning,  489 

Porte-manteau,  478 

Prisoners  of  war  in  our  literature,  469 

Tapping  and  tipping,  105 

Tea  as  a  meal,  611 

Telegraphy,  its  invention,  516 

Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  494 
U>berts  (John),  his  biography,  268 
toberts  (W.)  on  H.  8.  Ashbee,  847 

City  curio  collector,  496 

Jowett's  little  garden,  405 

Manuscripts  at  Paris,  258 

Painted  and  engraved  portraits,  488 

Portrait  of  Arohbishop  Ussher,  195 

'  The  Two  Duchesses,^  423 
tobertson  (J.  R.)  on  Simon  Fraser,  75,  192,  481 

Old  London  taverns,  69 
Lock  :  *'  Captain  Rook,"  his  histoiy,  227,  858 
U>ker,  manicurists*  term,  its  meaning,  28, 185,  288 
LoUins  (Mary  Packard),  lines  by,  91 
toman  Catholic  records,  389,  471 
Coman  steelyard  weights,  228,  817 
tood  WeU,  Edinburgh,  its  site,  207,  475 
toos  fitmUy,  169,  294 
Rosdad,*  author  of  the  poem,  849 
lose  and  Zorzi  fiunilies,  o8,  155 
loesell  (C.)  on  roker,  its  meaning,  28 
totton  (J.  F.)  on  Jesse  and  Selwyn,  122 

Walpole*8  (Horace)  letters  to  Mann,  229 
louen,  use  of  the  word,  149,  214,  258,  816,  458 
loulston  fiunily,  229 
itouse  (W.  H.  D.)  on  beard  of  the  pinna  and  silk 

manufiMsture,  428 
lowe  (A.  F.)  on  D'Auvergne  family,  897 
loyal  standard  of  England,  268,  853 
ioyal  surname,  269 
Rule,  Britannia,'  its  authorship,  146 
innagate,  use  of  the  word,  76 
inshton  (W.  L.)  on  Shakespeare's  books,  163,  428 
iuskin  (John),  memorial  at  Heme  Hill,  126 
iussell  (Lady)  on  "  All  roads  lead  to  Rome,"  511 

Definition  of  gratitude,  172 

Jean  le  Manique,  454 

Philoscriblerius,  75 

Purbeck  (Lady)  and  her  son,  456 

Quotations,  74 

St.  Christopher  and  laughter,  357 
Russian  bear,  origin  of  the  term,  849 
^tusticness,  use  of  the  word  by  Thomas  Carlyle,  6 
Gutter  family,  148,  314 

Etutton  (W.  L)  on  executions  at  lybum  and  else- 
where, 121,  242,  282,  810 
Manor  of  Tyburn,  489 
Etymmyll=rummel,  a  blow,  427,  619 
3.  on  the  family  of  Sir  Francis  Mitchell,  144 
}.  (A.)  on  book  by  Richard  Baxter,  826 

Donne  (Dr.),  referemoes  in  early  English  literature 
to,  188 
I.  (C.  W.)  on  yeomanry  records,  12 
}.  (D.)  on  inscription  in  Rinnel  Church,  816 


S.  (G.  C.  M.)  on  source  of  quotation,  8 
8.  (G.  8.  C.)  on  Breckenridge,  318 

Scottish  names  in  Froissart,  28 

"  Tout  lasse    tout  casse— toot  patse,"  247 
S.  (H.  T.)  on  author  of  redtotion  wanted,  150 
8.  (J.  M.)  on  English  representative  at  the  funeral  of 
Alexander  I.,  447 

niustrations  to  'The  MiU,'  427 
S.  (N.  S.)  on  the  accession  of  Edward  VII.,  187 

Albert  the  Good,  88 

Co-operative  trading,  445 

Deh4;oa  Bay,  407 

Gipsies  and  longevity,  406 

Glasgow  University,  484 

Handel  relic,  126 

«  Le  Roy  le  veult,"  264 

Public  mourning,  174 

Queens  members  of  the  Order  of  the  Garter,  166 

Raskin  (John),  memorial  to,  126 

St  Patrick's  Day,  223 

Smith  (George  Murray)  and  authors,  307 

Vanishing  London  :  (Christ's  Hospital,  205 

'*  We  don't  want  to  fight,"  886 
8.  (R.)  on  disguise  of  man  as  woman,  248 

Orientation  in  interments,  888 

Folio,  quarto,  Ac,  185 

Verbs  formed  out  of  proper  names,  894 
S.  (B.  B.)  on  formation  of  a  place-name,  105 
S.  (S^  on  source  of  quotation,  148 
S.  (W.)  on  *<  The  Bible,  Crown,  and  Constitation,"  469 

Bligh  (General),  166 

**  Clubbing  the  battalion,"  its  meaning,  110,  814 

Ladle,  467 

Nooth  (Dr.  J.  Mervin),  his  biography,  87 

••Owl  in  ivy  bush,"  116 

"Quod  non  feoerunt  barbari  fscerunt  Barberini," 
375 

Regiments  at  Culloden,  24 

Rood  Well,  Edinburgh,  475 

Runagate,  its  meaning,  76 
Sack  and  sugar,  148,  293 
Safford  family  in  Somenetshire^  88,  233 
Safford  (J.  B.)  on  Safford  family  in  Somersetshire,  88 
St.  Alban's  land,  meaning  of  the  term,  407 
St.  Bamabas's  Day,  11  June,  445 
St.  Christopher  and  laughter,  247,  856,  484 
St.  Clement  Danes  Church,  Strand,  64, 173,  274,  875 
St.  Edmond's  right,  meaning  of  the  term,  407 
St.  Eustatins,  Raven^  fiunily  o^  808 
St.  George,  device  of,  on  damask  linen,  446 
St.  Georse  snd  the  Dragon,  466 
St.  Giles^  Church,  Northampton,  municipal  business 

transacted  in,  367,  453 
St.  Helena  playbill,  285 
St.  Hubert's  rent,  meaning  of  the  term,  407 
St.  Hugh's  Day,  account  of  the  festival,  15 
St.  Patrick's  Day,  the  commemoration  of,  238,  271 
St.  Paul's  Churchyard,  runic  inscription  found  in,  269, 

888 
St  Peter's  patrimony,  meaning  of  the  term,  407 
St.  Swithin  on  game  of  battledore,  469 

Hattock,  72 

Heads  or  tails,  126 

••  Hutching  about,"  its  meaning,  271 

Inundate,  its  pronundation,  71 

Lay  canon,  197,  274 


546 


INDEX. 


NotM  and  Queries,  Jaly  17.  U 


St.  Swithin  on  Manor  of  Tyburn,  491 
Ornithology  of  OambridgeBhire,  425 
**SAr8on  stones/'  284,  896 
Ships  of  war  on  land,  286 
8tonehenge,  247 
Surnames,  486 
Title  of  esquire,  the,  94 
Watch-duun  ornament,  85 
SainthiU  (C.)  on  Sainthill  or  St.  Hill  £unily,  29 
Samplers,  early  use  of  the  word,  467 
Sandwich  men,  first  use  of  the  expression,  245 
Sanson,  his  account    of  execution  of  Louis  XVI., 

448 
Saranine  colour,  origin  of  the  name,  9 
Bargeaunt  (J.)  on  Chavasse  family,  181 
Sargent  family,  829.  432 
Sargent  (J.  fl.)  on  John  Coe  and  family,  848 
Sangue,  zoological  term,  its  etymology,  166 
"Sarson  stones,"  meaning  of  the  term,  149,  234,  270, 

896 
Saunders  (C.  T.)  on  butty,  its  etymology,  51 

Chavasse  Family,  191 
Sannders  (George),  architect,  1762-1889,  807 
Sawoey,  its  meaning,  447 

Sawyer  (K.  F.  J.)  on  what  constitutes  a  city,  228 
Saxony,  cockade  of  the  house  of,  149,  457 
Scarpelli  (Philip),  poem  by,  888 
Scattergood  (B.  P.)  on  the  Bishop  of  London's  funeral, 
855 
Kingsman  family,  890 
Roulston  family,  229 
Schedules,  Celtic,  of  the  1901  census,  808 
Schiller  (Professor),  of  the   Cornell    University,   his 

*  Riddles  of  the  Sphinx,'  449 
School-teachers  in  Kent,  1578-1619,  8,  187 
Scotland,  King    Edward  VII.'s    title  in,  225,  817 ; 

arms  of;  368,  452 
Scott  (John),  citizen  and  talter  of  London,  468 
Scott  (Thomas),  ob.  1775,  his  descendants,  28 
Scott  (Sir  Walter),  phrase  in  'The  Fortunes  of  Nigel,' 

510 
Scudamore  (Sir  Clement),  Sheriff  of  London,  1605-6, 

269,  873 
Seals,  history  of,  189 
Seaman  and  Dutton  families,  408,  518 
Seeds,  duration  of  life  in,  129,  828,  487 
Seetabuldee,  prints  of  the  battle  of,  149 
S^gur  (Comtesse  de),  her  biography,  427,  495 
Seiriol  on  manuscripts  at  Paris,  189 
Selfode,  its  meaning,  89 
*Selimus'  aod  Bdmund  Spenser,  61,  101,142,  203, 

261,  824,  884 
Selwyn  (George)  and  J.  Heneage  Jesse,   122,   178, 

274 
Seneca,  translations  of  his  works,  182,  258 
Senga  on  tolpatchery,  170 
Sergeant  of  the  Catery,  the  office,  169 
Seven  Dials,  taverns  in,  1740  60,  487 
Shakespeare,  earliest  printed  testimony  to  the  fame  of, 
25  ;  allusion  in  '  Henry  VIII.,'  Act  II.  sc.  3,  69  ; 
his  letters,    109;    passage  in   *Much  Ado  about 
Nothing,'  109  ;  and  Vondel,  147  ;  the  knavish,  and 
Babelais,  162,  255,  330,  474  ;  hU  books,  168,  423  ; 
'Twelfth  Night' and  Manningham,  205  ;  quotations 
on  calendars,  209,  334,  478 ;  epitaph  in  Labourdin 
Baskish,  845 ;  openiog  of  his  tomb,  888,  454 


Shakeipeariana : — 

As  You  Like  It,  Act  II.  sc  7,  "Not  to; 
senseless  of  the  bob,"  22,  845  ;  Act  III.  t 
**  Good  my  complexion,"  344 

Hamlet,  a  fictitious  scene  in,  843 

King  Henry  V.,  Act  V.  sc.  2,  "  So  happy  b 
issue,  brother  Ireland,''  22 

King  John,  Act  II.  sc.  1,  *<The  bias  d 
world,"  345 

Bomeo  and  Juliet,  Act  I.  sc.  1,  "  'Tis  thi 
to  cal  hers  (exquisit),"  844 

Winter's  Tale,    Act  I.  sc.   2,   "  Coromnnii 
with  dreams."  22  ;  Act  II.  sc.  1,  **To 
conjecture,"  28 
Sharp  (W.)  on  columbaria,  116 

Medisnval  tithe  barns,  98 
Sherbom  (C.  D.)  on  <*  Sarson  stones,"  235 
Sherbom  (G.  T.)  on  author  of  verses  wanted,  35) 

Nelson's  death,  411 
Sherborne  (Lord)  on  Dutton  family,  117 

Greek  pronunciation,  450 

Moon  lore,  96 

Thackeray,  250 
Sherwood  (G.  F.  T.)  on  consolidated  indexes,  421 
Shimmozzel,  Jewish  cant 'word,  10,  180,  458 
Ships  moving  without  sail  or  wind,  188 
Ships  of  war  on  land,  147,  285,  296,  354,  431 
Slippers,  powdering,  488 
Shoehomed,  its  use  as  a  verb,  289,  894 
Shovell  (Sir  C),  his  watch,  287 
Shuter  (Ned),  actor,  1728-76,  209 
Shuttles,  in  '  Guy  Mannering,'  407,  477 
Sibyl  or  Sybil,  its  speUing,  200,  317,  455 
Sigma  Tan  on  heraldic,  69 

Woollery  (Frances),  her  biography,  49 
Signia  on  '  Dictionary  of  Nation^  Biography,*  2i 

Grierson  of  Dublin,  27 
Signs,  music  publishers',  507 
SiSiouettes  of  children,  412 
Silk  manufacture  and  beard  of  the  pinna,  428 
Silver  trumpet,  meaning  of  the  term,  487 
Simms  (R.)  on  *  The  Situation  of  Paradise,'  487 
Simplex  on  Irish  harps,  888 
Simpson  (P.)  on  unclaimed  poem  by  Ben  Jonson 

Shakespeariana,  22,  345 
Singing  in  cdiurch,  265 
Sinton  (G.  S.)  on  *'  I  sit  on  a  rock,"  328 
Sirr  (H.)  on  columbaria,  116 

Forecourt,  &c.,  Ashbnmham  House,  Westmi 
125 
Sisters  bearing  same  Christian  name,  486 
Skeat  (W.  W.)  on  but^,  its  etymology,  51 

Chaucer,  passage  in  'Prologue,'  95, 238  ;  dm 
passages  in,  257 

Combination,  arithmetical  term,  17 

Date  wanted,  96 

Dude,  its  pronunciation,  15 

Etymology  and  whist,  28 

Frabbed,  its  meaning,  53 

Gallimaufry,  its  etymology,  86 

"Jeber's  cooks,"  238 

May-water,  its  meaning,  276 

Palmer,  its  meaning,  52 

Pitched  battle,  82 

Ships  of  war  on  land,  285 

Wig = bun,  15 


Hotes  ftnd  Querlea.  July  27, 1901. 


I  N  D  EX. 


54T 


Bkeal  (W.  W.)  on  Wise,  45,  252 

Skilly,  etymoloffy  and  use  of  the  word,  216 

Skin,  lines  on  the,  27,  113,  251 

Sknll,  lines  on  a,  848 

SkulU  found  in  Victoria  Street,  Westminster,  11 

Skulls  on  tombstones,  448 

Slack  (Mrs.)  on  Thompsons  of  York,  468 

Small  (J.  M.)  on  the  <' Crown"  behind  the  Boyal 

Exchange,  309 
Smith  (D.  Nichol)  on  authors  wanted,  888 
Smith  (G.  G.)  on  boUled  ale,  412 
Smith  (Greorge  Murray),  the  late,  and  authors,  307 
Smith  (H.)  on  Mr.  Vernon  S.  Morwood,  89 
Smith  (M.  E.)  on  hooligan,  48 

Smith  (Richard),  suiveon  of  Bristol,  his  biography,  169 
Smith  (W.  B.)  on  Chavasse  family,  48 
Smoking  a  cobbler,  its  meaning,  509 
Smous= Jew,  its  origin,  131,  298 
Smyth  (Bishop),  founder  of  Brasenose,  92, 157, 235,  298 
Sneyd  (G.)  on  Dutton  family,  174,  488 
Snicket,  its  meaning,  348,  512 
Snuff,  defence  of,  24 
Sod-widow,  origin  of  the  word,  268 
Soho,  taverns  in,  1740-60,  487 
Soho  Square,  statue  in,  209 
Soldier  ancestors,  853 
Solemne  (Anthony  de),  first  printer  at  Norvrioh  (1565- 

1580),  241,  381 
Solomon  (Samuel),  his  '  Guide  to  Health/  12,  131 
Somersetshiro  ballad,  368 
Somerville  (W.),  his  poem  *  The  Chace,'  447 
Sommerville  (C.  W.)  on  Sir  Francis  Nicholson,  28 

Songi  and  Balladi : — 

From  a  nate  little  village  in  Zummerzetshire,  868 

From  the  dim  shieling  on  the  misty  island,  868, 
512 

Kathleen  Mavoumeen,  888,  430 

Lass  of  Richmond  HiU,  169 

Let  *em  come,  157 

Paddle  your  own  Canoe,  53,  414,  493 

Rule,  Britannia,  146 

We  don*t  want  to  fight,  886 
Southam  Church,  Warwickshire,  heads  in,  268 
Southam  (H.  R.  H.)  on  a  company  of  Miners,  497 

Sweep's  sign,  326 
Southey  (Robert)  and  Swedenborg,  186 
Southwell  (T.)  on  date  wanted,  27 
Spartacus,  his  biography,  180 
Spenoe  (R.  M.)  on  "  A  still  small  voice,"  5 

Shakespeariana,  22 
Spencer  (W.  T.)  on  Eton  College  and  ram  hunting,  196 
Spenser  (Edmund),  *  Locrine,'  and  'Selimus,'  61,  101, 

142,  203,  261,  324,  384 
Speranza  and  Swedenborg,  287 
Spoons,  apostle,  350,  410 
Staff,  pastoral,  and  crosier,  887,  495 
SUflbrd  (J.)  on  Suwarroff  and  Mass^na,  193 
Stamps  and  coins,  crowned  heads  on,  248,  815 
Stanbury  fitroily  of  Devon  and  Cornwall,  128,  274,  473 
Standard,  Royal,  breaking  of  the,  108,  176 
Statue  in  Soho  Square,  209 
Steam  navigation,  early,  16,  188,  252 
Steelyard  weights,  Roman,  228,  817 
Steere  £unily,  49,  291 
Stevens  &  Brown  (B.  F.)  on  Moore  MS.,  347 


Stewart  (C.)  on  Dutton  &mily,  54,  175 

Stewart  fiunily,  508 
Stewart  family,  508 

Stewart  (Rev.  James  Haldane),  his  biogrsphy,  88,  274 
Stewart  (Sir  Simeon),  poet,  his  biography,  367,  484 
Stilwell  (J.  P.)  on  St  Bamabas*s  Day,  11  June,  445 
Stock  (Elliot)  on  Kipling  stories,  488 
Stock  Exchange  centenary,  406 
Stocks,  movable,  14,  118,  214 
Stonehenge,  247,  358 

Stones,  heaUng,   12,   135,  885;    boulder,  27,   136; 
Sarson,  149,  284,  270,  896 ;  incised  drdes  on,  389^ 
491  ;  tool  marks  on  mediaeval  dressed,  890 
Stow  (John),  his  portrait,  1603,  401,  513 
Strachan  (Col.  Archibald),  date  of  his  death,  446 
Street  (£.  E.)  on  'go  to  the  devil  and  shake  your- 
self,' 82 
Petering,  195 

Pinhoen,  a  ghost-word,  273 
Roker,  185 
Strong  (H*  A.)  on  Greek  pronunciation,  146 
Latin  motto,  432 
Theodolite,  its  meaning,  412 
Student  on  Mrs.  Charles  Arbothnot,  828 
Population  of  towns,  168 
Questing  beast,  149 
Stunt  (B.  B.)  on  *The  Thirteen  Club,'  128 
Sub  :  subsist  money,  356 

Sucoedaneum,  its  meaning,  149,  214,  258,  816,  458 
Suffolk,  visitation  of,  175 
Sundial,  motto  on,  467 
Superstition,  Scottish  death.  467 
Superstitions  relating  to  animals  in  India,  225 
Surnames,  introduced  into  England.  28,  98,  235,  271, 
436  ;  Messiter,  29  ;   formation  of,  45 ;   Amnd  and 
Darrand,    75 ;    Juggins,    247,   892  ;    royal,  269 ; 
Talbot,  836 ;  Kemp,  427  ;  Phillippo,  468 
Sutton  Coldfield,  Warwickshire,  rectors  of,  75 
Suwarroff  and  Mass^na,  108,  192,  218,  231 
Swedenborg,  and  Robert  Southey,  186;  and  '*  Spe- 
ranza," 287  ;  and  Coventry  Patmore,  845,  411 
Sweep's  sign  in  Wem,  326 
Sweeting  (W.  D.)  on  descendant  of  Deibe,  298 
Sweffling  Church,  Suffolk,  arms  in,  87 
Swiss  Connection  on  noble,  208 
Sydenham  Wells  Park,  its  opening,  445 
Sylvester  (Joshua),  poet,  228,  315,  358,  374,  515 
Symbolic  on  *  The  Devil's  Pulpit,'  209 
Syriac  interrogative,  Palestinian,  105 
T.  (A.  D.)  on  paschal  moons,  48 
T.  (C.  C.)  on  the  royal  stondard,  268 
T.  (D.  K.)  on  Sir  Anthony  Brabason,  814 
T.  (F.  M  )  on  "Thackeray's  bed  books,"  29 
T.  (H.)  on  "A  rat  without  a  tail,"  486 
American  invasion,  227 
Barry  (Dr.),  516 

**  Great  BriUin  "  v,  **  EngUnd,"  867 
Indexes  to  <  N.  &  Q.,'  26 
Powdering  gown,  its  meaning,  268 
Suwarroff  and  Mass^na,  231 
T.  (M.  H.)  on  Sweeny  I'odd,  508 
T.  (W.)  on  author  of  verses  wanted,  58 

Definition  of  gratitude,  89 
Tails,  West-Countrymen's,  286,  410 
<Takmi,'  or  *  Zakhmi  Dil,'  Indian  air,  507 
Talbot  (C),  printer,  &c.,  of  book  taUet,  408 


648 


INDEX. 


Notes  and  Queriet.  July  37. 1901. 


Talbot  (J.)  on  sab :  subsist  money,  356 

Talbot  (C),  printer,  &c.,  of  book  tablet,  408 
Talbot  somame  and  family,  886 
Tapping  and  tipping,  the  words,  105,  191,  837i  456 
Tate  (W.  B.)  on  two  of  a  name  in  one  fiunily,  5 
Tavern  signs  :  "  Bull  and  Last/*  128,  254,  881,  411  ; 

*«Pin  and  Bowl,"  138 
Taverns,  old  London,  69,  154,  286,  854,  482,  513 ; 
the  "  Grown,*'  309  ;  in  Seven  Dials  and  Soho,  487 
Taylor  (G.  S.)  on  paschal  moons,  96 

St  Glement  Danes,  275 
Taylor  (H.)  on  boulder  stones,  137 
Taylor  (I.)  on  Achill  Island,  86 

Animals  in  people's  insides,  833 

Area  of  chorohyards,  112 

Arundel  :  Walden.  281 

Gam,  the  river,  865 

Danaids,  the,  4 

Edward  VII/s  title  in  Scotland,  317 

Journalistic  errors,  230 

Leghorn,  110 

St  Geoige  and  the  Dragon,  466 

Ships  of  war  on  land,  354 

Surnames,  98 

Woore,  in  Salop,  its  derivation,  252 
Taylor  (Rev.  Robert),  his  *  The  Devil's  Pulpit,*  209 
Tea  as  a  meal,  early  use  of  the  word,  511 
Teddye  family,  28 
Teesdale  (M.  J.)  on  "There,  but  for  the  grace  of 

Ck)d,'*  269 
Telegraphy,  its  invention,  446,  516 
Terrestris  on  author  of  the  '  Rosoiad,'  349 
Thackeray  (W.  M.),   his  bed  books,  29,   134  ;   his 

drawing  of  the  Marquis  ofSteyne,  188,  250,  392 
Thampssoft,  Yorkshire  dialect  wonl,  77 
Theatre  in  1348  at  Exeter,  506 
Theatre  Royal,  in  George's  Street,  268,  331,  851 
Then = than,  447 

Theobald  (W.)  on  '  Much  Ado  about  Nothing,*  108 
Theodolite,  origin  of  the  word,  806,  412 
'  Thirteen  Glub,'  a  recitation,  128 
Thiselton  (A.  E.)  on  Shakespeariana,  344 
Thomas  (A.)  on  Transvaal  Dutch,  287 
Thomas  (Ralph)  on  gun  reports,  258 

'Letters  from  India  and  Kashmir/  309 

Lever  (D*Arcy),  78 

Painted  and  engraved  portraits,  471 

Vanishing  London  :  Ghrist's  Ho^ital,  296,  517 
Thompson  (E.  H.)  on  hand-ruling  in  title-pages,  516 
Thompson  (G.  H.)  on  language  to  conceal  thought, 
156 

Pews  annexed  to  houses,  518 
Thompson  (H.)  on  epitaph  of  John  Nichols,  189 
Thompson  £unily  of  York,  468 
Thomson  (Rev.  Robert),  LL.D.,  his  biography,  289 
Thornton  (B.  H.)  on  caba,  85 

"  Gome-Outers,"  the,  424 

Gloves  worn  in  celebrating  the  Eucharist,  45 

Godling,  its  meaning,  506 

Hand-ruling  in  old  title-pages,  169 

Latin  lines,  192 

Liturgical  language  of  the  Greek  Church,  51 

Margery,  194 

"  Owl  in  ivy  bush,"  16 

Raleigh's  signature,  455 

Smous,  its  meaning,  131 


Thornton  (R.  H.)  on  Thackeray,  188 

Velmatius  and  his  *  Ghristeid,*  87 

Whifflers  and  whifiOing,  116 
Thorold  (Sir  John),  Lord  Mayor,  his  portrait,  1 08, 155 
Thorpe  (W.  G.)  on  Ipplepen,  co.  Devon,  50 

Shakespeare,  the  knavidi,  380 
Throats,  blessing  of  the,  196,  817 
Throckmorton  (G.  W.)  on  William  Beadle,  155 

Craig  (J.  T.  Gibson).  167 

Throgmorton  (Francis),  374 
Throgmorton  (Francis),  his  biography,  89,  216,  874 
Tinkhame  fiunily,  68,  272 
Tinto  on  the  Last  Judgment,  408 
Tippmg  and  tapping,  tbe  words,  105,  191,  887,  456 
mthe,  its  meaning,  286 

Title-pages,  old,  hand-ruling  in,  169,  381,  396,  515 
Todd  (Sweeny),  criminal,  references  to,  508 
Tolpatohery,  use  of  the  word  by  Cariyle,  170 
Tom  (Grantham)  on  Arundel :  Walden,  336 
Tombstones,  skulls  on,  448 
Tool  marks  on  mediseval  dressed  stones,  890 
Topographical  error,  7 
Toucan,  etymology  of  the  name,  486 
Touraine  on  Sir  James  Douglas,  28 
Tovey  (D.  C.)  on  Lady  Purbeck  and  her  son,  389 
Tower  flill,  register  of  births  on,  in  1641,  829,  397 
Townend  (H.)  on  Coronation  Stone,  898 

Passage  in  Pope,  376 
Towns,  population  o(  ptiov  to  censuses,  168 ;  wluch 

have  changed  their  sites,  206,  273,  859,  417,  492 
Toynbee  (H.)  on  Horace  Walpole  and  his  editcvs,  103 
Trading,  co-operative,  growth  of  the  movement,  445 
Transvaal  Dutch  words,  287.  455 
Treasure,  buried,  indicated  by  lifi^ts,  47 
Trental  of  masses,  91 
'  Tribal  Hidage,'  its  arrangement,  441 
Trinity  Hall  Chapel,  Aldersgate,  425 
Trott  (John),  pseudonym,  48 
Troubadour  and  daisy,  389,  456 
Troy  weight  for  bread,  18,  90 
Trunk  or  box,  distinction  between,  55 
TudbaU  (S.  B.)  on  Mrs.  Mary  Anne  Clarke,  109 
Turner  (J.  H.)  on  Poet  Laureate's  birthplsyoe,  426 
Turner  (J.  M.  W.),  his  drawmg  of  Wanstead  Honse^ 

48,  156 
Turner  (T.)  on  Shakespeare's  lettess,  109 
Tuvill  (Daniel),  his  works,  309 
Twentieth-oentuiy  medal,  265 
'Two  Duchesses,"^  illustrations  in,  428,  471 
''Twopenny  Tube,"  the  phrase,  29,  116,  218,  875 
Tyaok  (G.  S.)  on  the  Bishop  of  London's  foneral,  855 
l^bum,  executions  at,  121,  210,  242,  282,  310 ;  tht 

manor  of,  881,  402,  489 
Tylor  (E.  B.)  on  Serjeant  Bettesworth,  127 
Tyro  on  Nell  Gwyn,  376 
^rone  on  Schiller,  philosopher,  449 
U.  (H.  W.)  on  City  curio  collector,  348 
Udal  (J.  8.)  on  alewives,  a  kind  of  fish,  406 

Cockade  of  house  of  Saxony,  457 

Heraldic  :  American  heraldry,  429 
Ulrickstadt,  its  localization,  49 
"  Under  weigh,"  earliest  use  of  the  expresdoo,  89 
United  States  flag,  265 
Unmistakable  (The)  on  '*  As  right  as  a  trivet,"  227 

'Bijou  Almanack,'  207 

Watch  belonging  to  Sir  G.  ShoveU,  287 


HotM  and  Queries,  Jaly  37. 1901. 


INDEX. 


549 


Uphill  sigzag,  equine  aagadty,  92 
ITpholdersuphouterer,  380 
TJik  Cattle,  tradition  concerning,  115 
UMher  (Archbiahop),  portrait  of,  195 
Utilitarian,  uie  of  the  word,  425 
Y.  (Q.)  on  '  Attur.  Acad.,'  892 
Callards,  its  etymology,  850 

•D.N.B.,'71 

Foot  of  beef,  510 

Foulrice :  lock  elm :  chincherer,  858 

Frail,  83 

**  Gone  to  Jericho,"  56 

Gumey  (Hudson),  hit  papen,  17 

Henry  III.  pawns  an  image  of  the  ^>^rgin,  327 

Lability,  its  meaning,  886 

Makau,  a  predoot  ttone,  469 

Penny,  the,  88 

Saranine,  itt  origin,  9 

Shimmozsel,  11 
Y.  (W.  I.  B.)  on  age  of  entry  at  Innt  of  Court,  17 

Anglo-Hebrew  tiang :  kyboah,  416 

Clu&Eom,  its  meaning,  70 

<*  Crown  '*  behind  the  Royal  Exchange,  418 

<*  Gone  to  Jericho,"  56,  472 

Heme  (Richard),  Sheriff  of  London,  1618-19,  374 

High  and  Low :  Contervative  and  Liberal,  288 

Johnson  (Robert),  Sheriff  of  London,  1617,  318 

Lodge  (Sir  T.),  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  127 

London  churohee^  885 

Maohyn't  *  Diary,'  1550-63,  185 

Powdering  gown,  874 

Scndamore  (Sir  Clement),  873 

Suffolk  name  for  ladybird,  96 

Unmarried  Lord  Mayort,  518 

White  (Sir  J.),  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  127 
Yade-Walpole  (H.  S.)  on  Col.  H.  Hugh  Mitchell,  107 
Yalia  at  a  female  name,  itt  origin  and  meaning,  447 
Yane  (Gilbert  H.  F.)  on  author  of  yertet  wanted,  815 
Yama,  the  battle  of,  and  the  Papal  fleet,  405 
Yehnatiut,  his  <  Chritteid,'  87 
Yerbt  formed  out  of  proper  namet,  182,  263,  398,  498 
Yerdure,  its  plural  form,  184 
Yerge  and  yard,  etymology  of,  281 
Yentat  on  Marat,  228 
Yemey  (Sir  Richard),  date  of  hit  death,  468 
Yictoria  (Queen),  her  death,   61 ;  yertet  on,   149  ; 

coronation,  846,  437 ;  lines  on  by  L.  E.  L.,  510 
Yitcountdet  of  England  without  barony,  41 
Yisiting  tickett,  early  mention  of,  149 
Yiya,  abbreyiation  of  viya  yooe,  18,  115 
Yoltaire,  his  church,  466 
Yondel  and  Shakespeare,  147 
W.  (A.  C.)  on  pattaget  in  Chaucer,  80, 175,  877 
W.  (H.)  on  Thomat  Scott,  28 
W.  (H.  A.)  on  Arnold  of  Rugby,  77 
W.  (H.  B.)  on  Abraham  Elder,  148 
W.  (H.  £. )  on  Bronte  topography,  469 
W.  (H.  8.)  on  -  In  the  swim,"  237 
W.  (J.  B.)  on  ancient  marriage  cuttomt,  185,  208 
W.  (J.  H.)  on  Byfield  fiunily,  129 

Rectort  of  Sutton  Coldfield,  75 
W.  (J.  W.)  on  flogging  at  the  cart  tail,  28 
W.  (P.)  on  fiye  o'clock  tea,  when  introduced,  382 
W.  (R)  on  <Colbum't  New  Monthly  Magazine,'  49 

Fane  (Blanche),  851 
W.  (W.  B.)  on  «  All  roadt  lead  to  Rome,"  427 


Wabblmg,  ute  of  the  word,  168,  272 
Wainwright  (T.)  on  American  inyation,  358 

Latin  lines,  12 
Wake  (H.  T.)  on  Burnt,  66 

Joan  of  Arc,  408 
Johnton  (Dr.),  88 
Wakefield  (E.)  on  *•  In  the  twim,"  29 
Waket,  bell-rinsing  at,  188,  294 
Walden,  deriyaOon  of  the  place-name,  28,  155,  836 
Walker  (Benjamin),  d.  17o4,  hit  detcendantt,  368 
Walker  (J.  T.  B.)  on  Stonehenge,  358 
Wallace  (George),  hit  biography,  408,  514 
WaUace  (R.  H.)  on  *<  In  ttie  Jolm  Trott  way,"  48 

Bouen  and  tuccedaneum,  149 

WaUace  (G^ree),  408 
Wallace-Jamet  (J.  G.)  on  animalt  in  paople't  intidet, 
891 

Arbuthnott,  458 

Bookt  on  manners,  deportment,  and  etiquette,  616 

Funeral  cards,  414 

Gast,  a  family  name,  418 

Hately  family,  411 

Rymmyll,  its  meaning,  519 

Wig=bun,  15 
Wallace- James  (Louisa)  on  Campbells  of  Ardkinglati^ 
298,  358 

MacLeay  family,  308 
Waller  (Edmund),  hit  lyrict  and  tacred  poemt,  55 
Waller  fiunUy,  129,  208 
Walpole  (Horace),  and  hit  editors,  103  ;  hit  letters  to 

Bfann,229 
Walpole  (Sir  Robert),  hit  definition  of  gratitude,  89 
Waltham  Abbey,  grayestone  at,  46 
Walton  (D.)  on  **  Time  was  made  for  sUyes,"  109 
Walton  (Izaak),  a  relic  of;  188.  410,  495 
Ward  (C.  8.)  on  Achill  Island,  254 

Continual  burnt  oflering,  476 

Isabel  of  Portugal,  428 

Margaret  of  Bayaria,  55 

Margaret  of  Bourbon,  111 
Ward  (J.  L.)on  old  marriage  custom  in  Yorkshire,  278 
Ward  (K.)  nn  Hamilton  family,  128 

Long  (Conttance),  8 

Steere  &mily,  49 
Warren  (Algernon)  on  Somertetthire  ballad,  868 
Warren  (Sir  John  Borlase),  1758-1822, 15,  92, 198, 896 
Watch  belonging  to  Sir  C.  Shoyell,  287 
Watch-chain  ornament,  itt  signification,  85 
Water-yole,  its  etymology,  184 
Watson  (Dr.  Forbes),  o£  1870,  247,  854,  454 
Watson  (J.  B.)  on  *  The  Pursuit  of  Pleasure,'  828 
Wattt  (Dr.  Isaac),  his  'Essay  on   the    Ruin   and 

Recoyery  of  Mankind,'  277 
Waurom,  co.  Hertford,  its  meaning,  129 
Weale  (F.  C.)  on  poem  by  Philip  8<»rpelli,  888 

Yersee  by  Lady  Falkland,  888 
Webb  (A.)  on  yerses  on  the  Irish  £unine,  148 
*  Wedded,'  picture  by  Lord  Leighton,  19 
Wedding,  gipty,  account  of  a,  45 
Wedding  drett,  teanty,  17 
Weeket :  Catiin :  Brocat,  267 
Weight,  troy,  for  bread,  18,  90 
Weight,  Roman  iteelyard,  228,  817 
Welford  (R.)  on  John  Bright  or  'Cranford,'  154 

Chitel  markt,  288 

Defender  of  the  Faith,  416 


550 


INDEX. 


Not«»  and  Queries.  July  27,  IWll 


W«Ilbrd  (R)  on  inciMd  circlM  on  itoiiei,  492 

Muidoipd  ooinddeDoei,  515 

SeftTohen  of  leather,  170 

Walton  relic,  495 
Wellington  (Duke  of),  his  oenmiB  paper,  1851,  265 
Wellmere  Deooy,  Lincolnshire,  288 
Welsh  (0.)  on  'Child^s  Own  Book,'  its  author,  248 
Welsh  maDUScript  pedigrees,  181,  218,  492 
^  estminster  Abbey  and  Max  MtUler,  88 
Westminster  (Abbot  of),  his  plot,  1899,  84,  197 
Westminster,  skuUs  found  in  Victoria  Street,  11 
Weston  (O.)  on  Carlyle  on  *'  mostly  fools,"  108 
Whale  (G.)  on  "  Grand  Tour,*'  509 
Wharton  (Anthony),  his  identification,  49 
Whately  (Archbp.),  editions  of  his  'Logic/  69,  177 
Wheatlev  (H.  B.)  on  painted  and  engrav«i  portraits,  470 
Wheel,  broken  on  the,  most  recent  infliction  of  the 

poishment,  135,  196,  887 
Wheeler  (S.)  on  Hume's  portrait,  272 

Leghorn,  253 
Whifflers  and  whifiEing,  116,  254 
Whist  and  etymolosy  compared,  23,  115 
*  Whitaker  *  on  Andorra,  826 
White  (Sir  J,),  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  127 
White  (R.)  on  the  Dukery,  869 

Tnittallation  of  a  midwife,  852 
White  (T.)  on  Gladstone  sUtue,  178 
Whitgifi's  Hospital  at  Croydon,  178,  256,  358,  450 
Whitman  (Walt),  his  "hexameters,"  246 
Whitwell  (R.  J.)  on  galloglass,  its  meaning,  506 

Slnifeboard  of  an  onmibus,  487 

Somerville's  '  Chace,'  447 
Whfim=home,  286,  874 
Wig  =  bun,  15 

Wig,  introduction  of  the  episcopal,  887 
Willcook  (John)  on  Cesar  and  Pompey,  268 

LotUR  flowers  and  lotahs,  846 

*'  Quod  mortoi  non  mordent,"  808 
Williams  (C.)  on  installation  of  a  midwife,  81 
Williams  (GrifBth),  ob,  1790,  his  wife,  27 
Williams  (Major),  his  voyage  to  Canada  in  1776,  112 
Williams  (N.  W.)  on  Hately  family,  867 
Williams  (T.)  on  Peter  Leicester,  828 
Williams  (W.  R.)  on  members  of  Parliament,  810 
Willis  (Rev.  George),  his  burial-place,  428 
Wills,  Irish,  1600-1760,  9,  71 
Wilson  (J.  B.)  on  yeomanry  records,  216 
Wilson  (R.  D.)  on  rouen  and  suooedaneum,  258 

"  The  power  of  the  dog,"  878 
Wilson  (T.)  on  Greek  pronunciation,  449 
Wilson  (W.  E.)  on  broken  on  the  wheel,  185 

"  Crown  "  behind  the  Royal  Exchange,  418 

Lattermint,  378 

St.  Helena  playbill,  285 

Shuttles,  its  meaning,  477 


Wilson  (W.  E.)  on  son  of  Lord  Byron,  208 
Windle  (W.  B.)  on  rins  of  Elizabeth,  368 

Walker  (Benjamin),  368 
Wine,  heathen,  prohibition  of,  among  Hebrewn,  Ul 
Wine  in  the  early  Christian  Churoh,  4, 135,  170 
Wise,  Anglo-Saxon  ghoet-word,  45,  172,  252 
Witch  superstitions  in  the  republic  of  Colombia,  •3':^ 
Wolfe  (Rev.  Charles),  his  claim  to  the  autbort<hip 

*  The  Burial  of  Sir  John  Moore,'  461 
Wolferstan  (E.  P.)  on  boulder  stones,  136 
Woman,  man  disguised  as,  248,  858 
Woollery  (Frances),  eighteenth-century  actress,  49 
Woore,  in  Salop,  its  etymology,  184,  252 
Worcestershire  folk-lore,  54,  255,  374 
Wordsworth  (W.),  allusion  in  'The  Warning/  1^ 
282,  888,  438  ^ 

Wordsworthiana,  42,  206 
Wotton,  Surrey,  Forty-Shilling  Day  at,  366 
Wright  (E.  M.)  on  flower  game,  829 
Wright  (Thomas),  of  Hopsford,  309 
Wrigley  (G.  W.)  on  Bumham  family,  287 
Wynne  (M.  B.)  on  '  Go  to  the  devil  and  shake  yoof 

self,'  82 
Wyvill  baronetcy,  dormant  title,  135 
X.  on  liturgical  language  of  the  Greek  Church,  51 

Lusus  natune,  288 
XL.  on  continual  burnt  offering,  408 

'*  Pint  umbit,"  its  meaning,  489 
Yard  and  verge,  etymology  of,  281 
Tardley  (E.)  on  authors  of  quotations  wanted,  1 9S 

*<  Better  to  have  loved  and  lost,"  236 

Comedy,  342 

Corpse  on  shipboard,  75 

Danteiana,  316,  416 

D'Auvergne  &mily,  332 

Fantastic  fiction,  161 

Morris  (William)  as  a  man  of  business,  54,  113 

Nature  myths,  36 

Old  legend,  197 

Poem  attributed  to  Milton,  91,  235 

Sibyl  or  Sybil,  318,  455 

Wall   calendars    with  quotations    from    Shakt 
speare,  885,  478 
Yarker  (F.  P.  L.)  on  Camden  ancestry,  14 
Yeatman  (P.)  on  genealogical   research  in  Americ 
244 

Welsh  manuscript  pedigrees,  131,  492 
Yeo  (W.  C.)  on  "Twopenny  Tube,"  116 
Yeomanry  records,  12,  34,  216 
Ygrec  on  Cornish  place-names,  488 
Yookynggale,  its  meaning,  2S8 
Z.  on  Peter  de  la  Port,  508 
Z.  (T.)on'Lasca,'109 
Zareba  or  zeriba,  use  of  the  word,  224 
Zorsi  and  Rose  fismilies,  68,  155 


LONDON:   PRINTED  BT  JOHV  EDWARD  FRAN(H8,  BBEAM'S  BUILDINGS,  CUANCBBT  LANK. 


ffiUVlTU*  •"CH'SA* 


3  9dl5'62044"l id' 

VSE  OlSLY 


i 


