WiilLTlilR  'SISIAHMIIf© 


Boston  Medical  Library 
in  the  Francis  A.Countway 
Library  of  Medicine  -Boston 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2010  with  funding  from 

Open  Knowledge  Commons  and  Harvard  Medical  School 


http://www.archive.org/details/onwritingofinsanOObaco 


FRONTISPIECE 


">--v 


%^  '^Sj:. 


J 


lb 


M 


y^: 


t 


An$ 


<C* 


^■^■i/i 


/ 


^,1 


P» 


r^ 


^^ 


,zzl 


DO 


?^i,; 


ni 


::^ 


^"^ 


.^ 


O. 


! 


^j) 


•#) 


ON   THE 


WRITING  OF  THE  INSANE, 


PFITH  ILLUSTRATIONS. 


(}.    MACKENZIE    BACON,    M.D., 

Medical  Stiperiniendent  of  the  Cambridgeshire  County  Asylum. 


'An  experience  of  wasted  energies  and  baffled  thoughts." 

LotlioJlf. 


LONDON: 

JOHN    CHURCHILL    AND    SONS, 

NEW    BURLINGTON   STREET. 

1870. 


[G.   p.   bacon,    LEWES.] 


PREFACE. 


The  following  pages  are  intended  merely  to  furnish  illustra= 
tions  of  the  writing  of  the  insane,  and  not  to  support  any 
particular  views. 

The  subject  of  insanity  is  one  that  is  practically  excluded 
from  the  observation  of  the  public,  or  of  the  bulk  of  the 
medical  profession,  and  it  is  so  of  necessity.  For  this  reason 
I  think  that  any  simple  recital  of  facts  connected  with  this 
speciality  must  have  a  certain  value,  even  if  not  leading  to  any 
direct  practical  issue.  It  has  been  my  endeavour  to  place  be- 
fore the  reader  a  series  of  pictures  of  insane  minds,  painted 
by  themselves,  and  it  is  for  him  to  draw  what  lessons  he  may 
from  the  study  of  them.  Looking  back  myself,  with  the  aid 
of  some  years'  familiar  experience  of  the  insane,  on  the 
histories  of  the  patients  who  wrote  the  letters  I  have  given,  it 
seems  to  me  that  I  can  recognise  each  case  in  these  docu- 
ments, and  I  hope,  therefore,  that  others  may  derive  some 
useful  impressions  from  their  perusal.  The  cases  are  meant 
to  speak  for  themselves,  and  I  have  avoided  encumbering  them 
with  many  comments.  There  is  no  particular  novelty  in  them. 


though  I  am  not  aware  that  any  such  series  has  been  before 
published,  and  there  is  only  one  point  on  which  I  lay  claim 
to  any  originality,  viz. — the  diagnostic  value  of  the  handwriting 
in  general  paralysis.  I  cannot  find  that  anyone  else  has  be- 
fore called  attention  to  the  alteration  the  handwriting  under- 
goes in  this  disease,  and  it  strikes  me  as  so  distinctive  as  to 
demand  consideration  in  the  observation  of  such  cases.  I 
first  noticed  this  subject  in  a  few  remarks  in  the  Lancet  of  July 
a4th,  1869,  in  which  paper  the  figures  in  Plate  IV.  appeared. 
In  the  first  place  I  had  the  writing  photographed  on  glass, 
and  exhibited  it  with  an  ordinary  magic  lantern  in  a  dark 
room  to  the  medical  students  of  the  University.  By  this 
plan  the  irregularities  in  the  writing,  being  magnified,  show 
more  clearly  still.  I  have  no  wish  to  attribute  undue  im- 
portance to  this  matter;  but  it  seems  to  me  of  some  value 
in  the  early  stages  of  a  disease  so  difficult  to  recognise  at  that 
period.  With  these  explanations  I  leave  the  matter  to  the 
judgment  of  others. 


County  Asylum, 
Fulhourji,  near  Cambridge. 


0^  THE  WRITIM  OF  THE  IMMK 


Of  the  three  modes  of  communicating  their  ideas  that 
human  beings  possess,  viz.,  speech,  gesture,  and  writing,  the 
last  one  has  received  the  least  notice.  Indeed,  the  study  of 
hand-writing  is  more  connected  in  one^s  mind  with  fortune- 
telling,  and  other  forms  of  popular  superstition  or  deception, 
than  with  scientific  investigation ;  yet  there  is  much  to  learn  by 
the  study  of  even  such  a  common-place  phenomenon.  The  act 
of  writing,  when  once  the  habit  has  been  acquired,  seems  so 
easy  as  to  be  almost  intuitive,  and  we  are  apt  to  forget  what 
combinations  are  necessary  to  set  in  motion  the  pen  which  runs 
so  glibly  over  the  paper,  and  what  complicated  processes  are 
involved  in  so  simple  an  act.  Without  dwelling  on  the 
mechanism  of  the  hand,  it  will  be  enough  to  call  to  mind 
the  other  requisites  for  this  mode  of  expression.  First,  the 
mental  conception,  then  the  volitional  impulse  and  its  trans- 
mission along  the  proper  track,  and  then  the  muscular  effort. 
All  this  implies  a  brain  capable  of  originating  the  idea,  and  a 
sound  nervous  system  to  carry  it  out :  and  any  failure  in  the 
one  or  the  other  mars  the  execution  of  the  purpose.  For 
instance,  certain  changes  in  the  brain  would  alter  the  modes 
of  expression,  showing  an  incoherency  or  perversion  of  idea, 
or  disease  in  the  nervous  track  might  debar  a  person  from 
expressing  the  idea  really  formed  and  substitute  another,  or 
certain  muscular  defects   might  impair  the  execution  of  the 


purpose^  making  the  written  words  shaky  or  badly  formed, 
&c.  So  much  is  self-evident  to  any  one  giving  the  subject 
^ny  reflection,  and  these  considerations  tend  to  show  that  the 
writing  of  a  person  may  deserve  a  two-fold  study — as  to  the 
subject-matter,  and  the  method  of  execution.  From  either 
point  of  view  the  writing  may,  then,  have  its  psychological 
value,  whether  a  person  be  sane  or  insane,  and  serve  as  an 
indication  of  character,  of  health,  or  of  disease.  Most  people 
are  sensible  of  the  force  of  this  indication,  though  some  are 
far  better  interpreters  of  it  than  others.  Writing  is,  of  course, 
the  direct  reflection  of  a  person^s  mind,  except  in  cases  where 
there  is  a  deliberate  purpose  to  mislead  or  conceal,  and  from 
its  permanence  is  sometimes  more  valuable  than  the  fleeting 
impression  produced  by  actions  or  spoken  language. 

My  present  object  is  merely  to  speak  of  the  value  of  the 
study  of  the  writing  of  the  insane,  and  that  in  a  two-fold 
aspect;  viz.,  the  subject-matter  and  the  manner  in  which  it 
is  conveyed,  that  is  to  say,  the  hand-writing. 

There  is  a  popular  notion  that  the  insane  are  a  very  wily 
and  cunning  class,  and  require  to  be  approached  with  a 
certain  amount  of  suspicion  and  caution,  in  order  to  fathom 
their  motives  or  even  discover  their  weaknesses;  but  those 
who  live  amongst  the  insane  know  well  how  little  such  notions 
are  supported  by  facts.  The  vast  majority  of  the  insane, 
indeed,  are  unconscious  in  what  way  they  differ  from  the  rest 
of  the  world,  and  have,  therefore,  nothing  to  conceal.  Few 
of  them  indeed  would  be  able  to  carry  out  any  system  of 
deception.  Still,  there  are  some  who  will  resort  to  such 
devices,  when  they  will  put  a  certain  constraint  on  their 
words  and  conceal  their  real  thoughts ;  but  this  is  a  difficult 
part  to  play,  and  one  that  they  seldom  perform  with  success. 
Indeed,  most  of  such  patients  escape  from  this  unnatural 
position  by  relieving  their  feelings   in  writing,  and  then  the 


productions  of  their  pen  have  an  unusual  value.  Dryden 
relates  of  Nathaniel  Lee  that  the  latter,  in  reply  to  some  bad 
poet,  who  observed  that  it  was  very  easy  to  write  like  a 
madman,  made  this  shrewd  remark  : — "  It  is  very  difficult  to 
write  like  a  madman,  hut  it  is  very  easy  to  write  like  a  fool." 
It  is  not  necessary  that  I  should  here  define  '^  the  insane/^ 
as  I  only  refer  to  a  class  recognised  as  such,  and  do  not  want 
to  dwell  on  any  disputed  cases.  The  line  must  be  drawn 
somewhere  between  the  sane  and  insane  for  purposes  of 
public  convenience,  but  such  a  boundary  mark  has  but  little 
value  to  medical  men,  who  have  to  look  at  people's  minds 
and  nervous  systems  as  they  are,  without  much  reference  to 
an  ideal  standard  of  mental  health  or  capacity.  Indeed,  the 
habit  of  regarding  society  as  divided  into  two  camps,  the 
sane  and  insane,  more  or  less  opposed  to  one  another,  is  a 
very  mischievous  one,  as  well  as  being  founded  in  error,  for 
it  is  those  who  occupy  the  neutral  ground  that  it  concerns 
the  physician  to  know,  still  more  than  it  does  those  already 
ticketed  as  insane.  There  is  a  large  class  of  persons,  parti- 
cularly among  women,  of  limited  mental  capacity,  and  of 
unstable  nervous  power,  whose  ailments  are  very  closely 
related  to  the  condition  called  insanity,  and  who  ought  to  be 
studied  clinically  in  that  category;  yet  to  call  such  people 
mad  is  to  unsettle  all  existing  systems  of  nomenclature.  The 
great  majority  of  cases  in  any  large  public  Asylum  is  com- 
posed of  people  who  have  permanent  delusions,  or  are  more 
or  less  sunk  in  dementia;  and  the  mental  state  of  such 
patients  is  easily  recognised  and  defined ;  but  there  are  always 
a  good  many  others  of  feeble  mind  and  with  little  power  or 
will,  and  without  any  special  perversion  of  intellect,  whose 
condition  hardly  differs  from  the  ''  nervous'^  and  hysterical  or 
susceptible  people  that  exist  free  in  the  world.  This  inter- 
mediate class  deserves  especial  study,  and  forms,  as  it  were. 


a  connecting  link  between  those  of  vigorous  mental  health 
and  those  whose  minds  are  obviously  off  the  line.  But  such 
are  just  the  persons  who  are  the  most  wearisome  patients, 
and  who  feed  the  numerous  forms  of  quackery.  The  proper 
way  to  understand  such  cases  is  to  think  of  them  as  victims 
of  a  permanent  state,  and  not  objects  for  pharmaceutical 
treatment.  At  all  events,  the  experience  of  the  more  aggra- 
vated forms  of  such  a  state,  as  seen  in  the  insane,  throws  the 
best  light  on  their  interpretation. 

This  is  well  illustrated  by  the  following  extract  from  a  letter 
I  received  from  the  sister  of  a  man  who  was  convalescing  from 
an  attack  of  mania,  and  wrote  to  her  saying  that  he  wished 
to  see  her.  This  man  had  been  on  good  terms  with  her,  but 
had  led  a  wandering  life,  and  had  not  seen  her  for  some 
years ;  he  was  quiet,  and  wrote  her  a  sensible  letter.  In  reply 
she  excused  herself  from  doing  anything  for  him,  saying — ^^the 
principal  reason  being  my  own  lamentable  state  of  health. 
I  suffer  from  extreme  nervous  debility,  which  renders  my 
daily  duties  a  trial  that  no  one  but  myself  can  form  the 
faintest  idea  of,  but  which  several  eminent  medical  men  can 
and  are  willing  to  confirm,  should  you  think  it  necessary.  It 
would  endanger  my  life  (or  worse,  my  reason)  if  ever  I  had 
but  an  interview  with  my  unfortunate  brother.  I  pray  God 
it  may  be  averted,  for  only  the  reading  of  his  letter  has  com- 
pletely prostrated  me.''^  The  inevitable  P. S.  was  as  follows: — 
"  I  must  leave  it  to  your  kind  consideration  to  frame  an 
answer  to  my  poor  brother  for  me ;  it  is  not  in  my  power  to 
answer  him." 

This  woman,  married,  and  able  to  attend  to  her  family, 
partly  earned  her  living  by  teaching  music,  though  from  her 
letter  it  might  be  supposed  she  was  incapable  of  any  exertion. 
Now,  such  a  state  of  mind  is  more  nearly  allied  to  insanity 
than  anything  else,  and  some  light  is  thrown  on  its  nature 


by  the  fact  of  her  brother  being  insane.  The  mere  fact  of 
insanity  is  not  enough  to  deprive  a  man  of  the  power  of 
writing  usefully  and  serviceably^  as  is  proved  by  many  well- 
known  cases.  For  instance,  A.  Cruden,  who  wrote  the 
''  Concordance/-"  had  his  life  interrupted  three  or  four  times  by 
attacks  of  insanity,  but  left  a  work  behind  him  which  remains 
of  considerable  value,  Cowper,  the  poet,  too,  is  another  case 
in  point. 

J.  Clare,  the  peasant  poet  of  Northamptonshire,  was  in- 
sane for  many  years,  and  wrote  very  good  verses  while  in  the 
Asylum.  He  had,  at  that  time,  various  delusions,  and  would 
depict  with  the  most  minute  accuracy  the  execution  of 
Charles  I.,  of  which  he  professed  to  have  been  an  eye- 
witness. He  would  also  describe,  in  nautical  phrase,  the 
battle  of  the  Nile  and  the  death  of  Nelson,  and  used  to  say 
he  was  one  of  his  sailors,  though  he  had  never  seen  the  sea 
in  his  life.  These  instances  show  how,  even  when  the  mind 
is  permanently  affected,  men  can  write  on  many  subjects 
without  giving  signs  of  their  infirmities. 

It  is,  however,  the  exception  for  those  who  are  permanently 
insane  to  be  able  to  carry  on  any  sustained  labour  in  composition. 

The  letters  of  the  insane  are  worth  study — as  the  most 
reliable  evidence  of  the  state  of  the  patient^s  mind  for  the 
time  being ;  they  are  a  sort  of  involuntary  photograph,  and 
for  this  reason  it  is  often  useful  to  make  patients  write,  as  well 
as  to  converse  with  them  when  investigating  cases  of  lunacy. 

I  propose  to  give  a  few  examples  of  such  compositions,  and 
it  may  be  convenient  to  consider  them  under  the  following 
heads : — 

1.  As  illustrating  chronic  insanity. 

2.  As  illustratins;  acute  attacks. 

3.  As  (rarely)  the  sole  evidence. 


10 

4'  As  a  sign  of  convalescence. 

5.  As  indicating  an  on-coming  attack. 

6.  As  illustrating  the  phases  of  cases  of  ordinary  mania. 

7.  As  showing  the  changes  the  handwriting  undergoes  in 

general  paralysis. 

(i)  The  following  letter  was  written  by  a  man  who  was 
several  years  under  my  care,  and  had  permanent  delusions. 
He  was  a  skilful  workman,  and  quiet  and  well-behaved,  but 
was  indignant  at  what  he  considered  his  unjust  detention. 
Before  admission  to  the  Asylum,  he  went  to  the  police  to 
complain  of  shrieks  he  thought  he  heard  from  a  cellar,  and 
after  a  time  telegraphed  to  the  Duke  of  Cambridge,  which  led 
to  his  being  placed  under  certificates.  Soon  after,  he  wrote  a 
letter  describing  his  arrest,  and  went  on  to  say — "  I  have  been 
here  about  six  weeks,  and  have  been  tyrannized  over  the 
last  three  months  by  a  set  of  little  devils  who  call  themselves 
Catholics.  They  are  about  2  feet  6  inches  to  4  feet  in  height ; 
they  watched  me  about  London  and  C. ;  they  parade  the  fields 
adjoining  this  building  day  and  night.  I  have  heard  screams 
from  ladies  often — all  the  Princesses  of  the  Royal  House  are 
obliged  to  wander  about  these  fields  frequently  j  if  they  attempt 
to  get  away  from  these  tyrannesses  they  stop  and  torture 
them.  Their  Highnesses  suffer  martyrdom  from  hunger  and 
fatigue.  Sec.  .  .  .  However  fabulous  or  erroneous  tnis 
may  appear  to  some,  I  assure  you  it  is  a  fact ; — if  I  could  get 
away  from  this  place,  I  would  go  to  London  and  tell  you  more 
about  these  fiends.  I  have  written  thus  to  let  you  know  that 
the  working  classes  will  lose  their  liberty  if  they  allow  this 
tyranny  to  exist. ^^ 

After  a  time  this  man  found  out  that  his  ideas  were  treated 
as  delusions,  and  was  chary  of  expressing  them,  but  would 
betray  them  when  writing  a  recital  of  his  hardships.      I  only 


^ 

a.^^ 


^^^^^j^^N^    j 


i 


1^^ 


iPt^i-^ 


^ 


"^^ 


^^"^b      '^-rP-^^     '^^^^%^ 


t^ 


^v~  -;-™.>«<li«< 


II 


quote  this  as  a  sample  of  a  case  of  chronic  mania^  and   it  has 
otherwise  no  special  value. 

In  another  case^  a  woman  who  was  thought  by  her  friends 
fit  to  be  at  liberty  wrote  thus  : — 

"  I  am  happy  to  say  that  I  am  in  a  sound  state  of  mind — 
but  one  thing  I  have  to  state  to  you^  that  there  is  several 
wicthes  conceiled  in  this  Asiliam_,  and  dockter  Backen  knows 
nothing  about  it ;  they  have  been  playing  on  me  ever  since 
I  have  been  here — from  my  toe  to  my  head.  What  I  have 
suffered,,  know  toung  can  tell — and  I  have  had  a  great  deal  of 
money  sent  on  here  from  Weymouth — 50  millions^  thousand 
more — and  a  Hat  Box  and  Box  of  clothes,  and  4  Thousand 
pounds ;  besides  this,  the  Queen  50  million  Pounds,  and  the 
wicked  witch  here  have  got  \t,"  &c.  The  woman  that  wrote 
this,  I  may  add,  had  had  two  husbands,  both  of  whom  com- 
mitted suicide,  and  after  this  two-fold  liberation  from  the 
cares  of  matrimony  she  became  mad  herself. 

In  cases  like  the  two  last,  diagnosis  is  easy,  but  no  descrip 
tion  can  convey   so  good  an   idea  of  the  patients^   minds  as 
their  own  expression  of  their  thoughts. 

(2)  Plate  I  represents  a  portion  of  a  letter  written  by  a 
man  during  an  attack  of  acute  mania.  The  incoherency  of 
idea,  broken  purpose,  and  want  of  consequence  in  the  words, 
is  shown  in  the  odd  scrawl  and  fantastic  figures.  It  gives  a 
better  picture  of  his  mental  state  than  any  verbal  description 
could.  This  letter  was  addressed  "To  Her  Majesties  Most 
Humble  Hannah  B.,  or  Mrs.  Benja.,  High  St.,  Ipswich, 
Clare,  Suffolk  C,  East  L.E.C.  By  Six  Mile  Bottom.  .  .  . 
to  return  unpaid. ^^ 

This  patient  was  admitted  in  a  state  of  considerable  excite- 
ment, and  remained  for  two  or  three  months  talkative,  un- 
settled, and  incoherent,  and  with  a  good  deal  of  emotional 
excitement.      The  above  letter  was  written  during  this  stage. 


12 

By  the  end  of  six  months  he  had  got  much  calmer,  and  was 
working  at  his  trade,  and  got  better  by  keeping  to  a  regular 
employment. 

(3)  The  cases  are  rare  in  which  patients  give  no  evidence  of- 
their  insanity,  except  in  writing,  but  they  do  occur.  When^ 
however,  this  is  the  case,  it  is  only  for  a  time ;  for,  as  the  symp- 
toms get  more  confirmed,  the  mental  perversion  becomes  more 
intense,  and  masters  the  previous  resolution  to  conceal.  Not 
long  ago  a  woman,  whose  husband  was  under  my  care  for 
mental  symptoms  due  to  a  blow  on  the  head,  called  to  see  him, 
and  I  was  asked  to  give  an  opinion  as  to  her  sanity,  having 
been  furnished  with  an  account  of  what  she  had  said  and 
done  lately.  In  talking  to  her,  I  took  great  care  to  avoid  ex- 
citing her  suspicions,  but  could  get  nothing  from  her  corrobora- 
tive of  what  I  had  been  told,  and,  indeed,  could  find  nothing 
wrong  with  her,  though  I  thought  her  haggard,  and  anxious, 
and  altered  in  appearance.  The  next  day  I  received  the  follow- 
ing letter  from  her  : — 

"  Since  I  saw  you  I  have  made  up  my  mind  to  go  to  S.  I 
hope  you  will  believe  me  that  I  never  was  in  any  way  dis- 
gracefully connected  with  any  man — I  can  clear  mvself,  and 
will ;  but  I  feel  so  completely  stunned  that  I  scarcely  know 
what  I  am  after.  I  feel  truly  thankful  for  the  kindness  shown 
my  poor  husband.  I  will  see  you  again  soon,  and  will  then  do 
all  I  can  to  set  it  right."  These  expressions  referred  to  her 
delusions,  but  I  had  not  touched  on  them  in  conversation 
with  her.     She  could  not,  however,  conceal  them  entirely. 

To  my  surprise  I  received,  a  few  days  later,  a  second 
letter,  as  follows  : — 

"  T  was  very  sorry  I  was  not  made  acquainted  with  this 
affair,  so  that  my  poor  husband  might  have  had  food  suffi- 
cient— why  was  it  not  stated  to  me  in  a  right  way  ?  I  beg 
that  he  have  his   proper    meals,  and    what    is    required    for 


^3 

him :  it^s  not  right  that  he  should  be  treated  hke  this.  I 
had  no  idea  for  what  purpose  I  was  taken  there/'  Shortly 
after  this  she  was  placed  in  the  Asylum^  and  I  found  she 
had  a  notion  that  people  were  talki^ng  of  her  in  church 
and  scandalizing  her^  and  interpreted  everything  she  saw  as 
directed  at  herself.  In  such  case  the  writing  is  a  powerful 
aid  in  diagnosis  at  an  early  period_,  but^  of  course,  where 
the  patient  is  under  daily  observation,  and  her  sayings  and 
doings  can  be  noticed  by  those  about  her  without  her 
knowledge,  an  opinion  is  much  more  easily  arrived  at. 
When  delusions  are  active  and  enter  into  the  patient's 
being  so  as  to  form  a  part  of  his  daily  life  and  thoughts, 
he  cannot  conceal  them  long;  he  may  do  so  from  the  many, 
but  in  the  end  he  chooses  some  confidant. 

I  knew  a  gentleman  who  was  for  many  years  in  a  private 
asylum,  and  who  mixed  daily  with  a  number  of  persons 
without  betraying  himself  in  the  smallest  degree,  but  who 
would  confide  to  one  of  the  proprietors  his  thoughts,  and  who 
had  positive  delusions  of  a  distressing  character. 

(4)  I  mentioned  before  that  the  character  of  the  writing 
was  indicative  of  the  stage  in  cases  of  acute  mania,  and  I 
would  observe,  in  addition,  that  it  often  serves  to  show  the 
progress  a  patient  is  making  towards  recovery.  This  is  well 
shown  in  the  following  letters,  which  were  written  by  a  girl  of 
sixteen,  who  was  under  my  care  last  year  for  a  rather  sharp 
attack  of  acute  mania,  lasting  eight  months  before  entire  re- 
covery. 

The  first  letter  was  written  about  five  months  after  admis- 
sion, and  was  as  follows,  but  badly  spelt,  &c.,  as  she  was 
uneducated  : — 

"  My  dear  Father  and  Mother, — I  write  these  few  lines  to 
you,  hoping  to  find  you  all  quite  well,  as  it  leaves  me  at  this 
present  time,  as  I  am  happy  to  say  it  leaves  me.     Tell  Aunt 


14 

M.  I  want  a  new  dress  for  Sunday.  I  shall  not  forget  the 
spree  we  had  in  the  bed-room ;  we  must  be  silly  to  think  that 
we  was  going  to  leave  home  for  a  few  weeks,  so  I  shall  expect 
a  good  long  letter  from  my  dear  uncle,  if  he  will  write  to  me. 
I  think  I  know  where  I  am.  You  did  frighten  me  when  I 
was  a-bed_,  so  I  shall  not  forget  you.  Tell  my  sister  Mary  to 
write  to  me,  for  I  shall  be  glad  to  hear  from  her.  Brother  J. 
came  to  see  me  a  few  days  back.  I  hope  he  is  well,  and  dear 
Mother  as  well,  &c.  I  want  my  petticoat  from  B.  Tell  my 
dear  uncle  to  send  me  my  things,  as  I  am  so  happy  to  see  the 
parlour  fire  burn  so  fierce.  Give  my  love  to  all  my  old 
fellow-servants.  I  hope  you  will  forgive  me,  uncle,  for  waiting 
of  you,  so  you  must  go  home  and  wait  table  for  Mr.  B., 
squire  at  Hall,  and  get  me  saddling  ready  for  hunting,  but 
you  must  not  forget  Mary  and  me.  I  want  to  go  to  D.  with 
you  for  a  ride  in  the  dog-cart,  and  feed  the  cats  up  the  loft. 
Don^t  forget  the  whip  and  horse-rug  to  go  to.  My  kindest 
love  to  them  all,  and  receive  the  same  yourself;  you  know 
me,  I  suppose,^^  &c. 

The  next  letter  she  wrote,  to  her  parents  also,  was  this  : — 

"  I  write  these  few  lines,  hoping  to  find  you  all  well,  as  it 
leaves  all  of  us.  I  didn't  write  to  you  before  because  I  was 
waiting  to  get  well,  to  come  home.  It  is  very  cold  in  the 
summer  time.  Tell  Sister  Mary  to  please  to  write  to  me 
before  I  leave  off  working;  it  is  time  to  have  a  letter  from 
you.  I  think  I  shall  work  to-morrow,  so  please  give  my  kind 
love  to  all  friends.  I  did  not  think  of  seeing  Aunt  O. ;  so 
coming  in  to  see,  she  was  dead  and  buried,"  &c. 

The  third  letter  was  written  two  months  before  her  dis- 
charge from  the  Asylum,  thus  : — • 

"  I  write  these  few  lines,''  &c.,  &c.  '^  It  is  very  wet  and 
cold.  There  is  a  very  nice  fire  here  this  afternoon.  T  have 
been  expecting  some  of  you  to  see  me  for  this  last  fortnight. 


15 

I  go  to  the  dance  every  time;  I  enjoy  myself  very  much.  I 
am  getting  quite  well  now,  I  shall  soon  be  fit  to  come  home 
again.  They  are  all  very  kind  to  me  here.  Give  my  love  to 
all  my  brothers  and  sisters/^  &c. 

These  letters,  though  simple,  deserve  consideration,  as 
showing  the  variations  in  the  mental  state.  This  girl  had 
been  staying  with  an  uncle,  who  was  servant  to  a  gentleman 
in  Yorkshire,  and  the  first  letter  is  a  curious  jumble  of  home 
impressions  and  feelings,  with  reminiscences  of  her  visit  to 
her  uncle,  and  the  details  of  her  life  there,  such  as  the  stables, 
the  cats,  and  the  ride  in  the  dog-cart.  The  next  letter  shows 
a  great  improvement,  but  there  is  still  some  flightiness;  and 
the  last  is  quite  sensible  in  tone. 

Such  a  series  of  letters  is  useful,  as  showing  the  gradual  im- 
provement in  a  case,  and  assists  one  in  forming  an  opinion 
on  its  progress. 

(5)  An  anxiety  to  write  is  frequently  the  sign  of  an  ap- 
proaching attack.  A  woman,  who  has  been  some  time  under 
my  care,  for  recurrent  mania,  always  takes  to  her  pen  at  the 
onset  of  an  attack.  She  writes  letters,  and  crosses  them,  fills 
up  every  corner  of  the  paper,  and,  when  finished,  they  are  quite 
unintelligible,  and  consist  mostly  of  a  repetition  of  the  same 
sentences.  In  such  a  case  the  writing  is  superfluous  for  a 
medical  man,  so  far  as  diagnosis  is  concerned,  but  it  might  be 
useful  in  convincing  others,  as  loquacious  females,  who  have 
no  absurd  delusions,  are  very  apt  to  be  regarded  by  the  public 
as  sane,  and  only  injured  and  misunderstood  creatures. 

(6)  In  ordinary  cases  of  mania  the  patients^  letters  are  odd 
and  grotesque,  exhibiting  the  same  want  of  balance  that  their 
actions  do.  These  productions  are  of  little  value  in  diagnosis, 
but  are  curious  illustrations  of  the  topsy-tur\^  condition  of 
the  writer's  mind.  This  is  well  illustrated  in  the  following- 
case : — The  patient  was  a  respectable  artisan  of  considerable 


i6 

intelligence^  and  was  sent  to  the  Cambridgeshire  Asylum  after 
being  nearly  three  years  in  a  melancholy  mood.  As  this 
passed  ofF^  he  showed  a  good  deal  of  pride  and  self-esteem, 
and  gradually  recovered,  so  that  at  the  end  of  two  years  more 
he  was  able  to  be  discharged.  During  the  greater  part  of  these 
two  years  he  spent  much  of  his  time  in  writing — sometimes 
verses,  at  others  long  letters  of  the  most  rambling  character,  and 
in  drawing  extraordinary  diagrams,  of  which  the  coloured  illus- 
trations (the  frontispiece  and  Plate  III.)  present  striking  in- 
stances. They  are  not  quite  so  incomprehensible  as  they  at 
first  appear,  for  on  close  inspection  a  good  many  ideas 
may  be  made  out.  After  he  left  the  Asylum  he  went  to 
work  at  his  trade,  and,  by  steady  application,  succeeded  in 
arriving  at  a  certain  degree  of  prosperity,  but  some  two  or 
three  years  later  he  began  to  write  very  strangely  again,  and 
had  some  of  his  odd  productions  printed ;  yet  all  this  time  he 
kept  at  work,  earned  plenty  of  money,  conducted  his  business 
very  sensibly,  and  would  converse  reasonably. 

This  is  one  of  the  letters  he  wrote  at  this  time,  after  a  visit 
from  a  medical  man,  who  tried  to  dissuade  him  from  writing 
in  this  way  : — 

"  Dear  Doctor, 
"  To  write  or  not  to  write,  that  is  the  question.  Whether 
^tis  nobler  in  the  mind  to  follow  the  visit  of  the  great  '  Ful- 
bourn^  with  '  chronic  melancholy^  expressions  of  regret  (with- 
held when  he  was  here)  that,  as  the  Fates  would  have  it,  we 
were  so  little  prepared  to  receive  him,  and  to  evince  my  humble 
desire  to  do  honour  to  his  visit.  My  Fulbourn  star,  but  an 
instant  seen,  like  a  meteor's  flash,  a  blank  when  gone. 

"  The  dust  of  ages  covering  my  little  sanctum  parlour  room, 
the  available  drapery  to  greet  the  Doctor,  stowed  away 
through  the  midst  of  the  regenerating  (water  and  scrubbing 
— cleanliness  next  to  godliness,  political  and  spiritual)   cleans- 


PI  III, 


17 

ing  of  a  little  world.  The  Great  Physician  walked,  be- 
dimmed  by  the  '  dark  ages/  the  long  passage  of  Western 
Enterprise,  leading  to  the  curvatures  of  rising  Eastern  morn. 
The  rounded  configuration  of  Lunar  (tics)  garden's  lives  an 
o'ershadowment  on  Britannia's  vortex/'  &c. 

The  coloured  illustration  facing  the  Title-page  is  another 
of  his  strange  productions.  It  would  require  no  little  inge- 
nuity to  conceive,  and  perseverance  to  execute,  such  a  dia- 
gram, and  the  curious  feature  in  the  case  is,  that  a  man  with 
such  disordered  ideas  should  concentrate  his  efforts  sufficiently 
for  such  an  undertaking.  His  industry  in  composition  and 
the  odd  illustrations  by  which  he  accompanied  his  writings, 
were  marvellous,  and  on  the  whole  his  case  was  a  very  extra- 
ordinary one. 

The  illustration  in  Plate  III.  and  that  forming  the  frontis- 
piece were,  in  the  original,  drawn  on  both  sides  of  the 
same  small  half  sheet  of  paper,  and  the  patient,  as  though 
anxious,  in  the  exuberance  of  his  fancy,  to  make  the  fullest 
use  of  his  opportunities,  had  filled  up  every  morsel  of  the 
surface — to  the  very  edge — not  leaving  an  atom  of  margin. 
On  looking  at  it  one  is  strikingly  reminded  of  the  lines  in 
Pope's  Essay  on  Man — 

"  A  mighty  maze  !  but  not  without  a  plan, 
A  wild,  where  weeds  and  flowers  promiscuous  shoot ;" 

although  it  may  not  be  easy  to  find  the  key  to  this  plan, 
whatever  it  might  have  been,  nor  to  distinguish  which  are  the 
weeds  and  which  the  flowers  in  so  tangled  a  "  wild." 

In  the  course  of  another  year  he  had  some  domestic 
troubles,  which  upset  him  a  good  deal,  and  he  ended  by 
drowning  himself  one  day  in  a  public  spot.  The  peculiarity 
was,  that  he  could  work  well,  and  not  attract  public  atten- 
tion, while  he  was  in  his  leisure  moments  writing  the  most 
incoherent  nonsense. 


Another  case  I  had  under  my  care  recently,  showed  some 
strange  peculiarities  in  this  direction.  The  patient  had  been 
of  unsteady  habits,  and  reduced  himself  to  poverty,  and  was 
sent  to  the  Asylum  with  certain  delusions  as  to  the  Jews,  and 
an  army  he  had  at  his  command.  After  a  time  he  dis- 
owned his  wife,  and  refused  to  communicate  with  her, 
but  later  wrote  the  letter  of  which  Plate  II.  is  a  fac- 
simile. That  in  printed  capitals  he  called  the  Italian  version, 
and  the  other  the  Key  to  it.  He  recovered  completely  in 
eleven  months,  but  his  symptoms  underwent  several  changes 
before  he  left,  and  his  letters  varied  with  them.  After  the 
letter  just  referred  to,  he  wrote  one  with  every  second  or  third 
word  in  capitals,  the  subject-matter  being  quite  incoherent* 
Shortly  afterwards  he  wrote  two  more,  composed  wholly  of 
unmeaning  marks  and  strokes,  of  which  he  gave  no  explan- 
ation. When  he  approached  recovery  he  wrote  very  sensibly 
and  affectionately  to  his  wife,  showing  genuine  remorse  for 
his  bad  habits,  and  was  also  full  of  good  intentions^  which  I 
believe  were  carried  out. 

The  cases  which  the  public  cannot  understand,  and  which 
often  furnish  sensational  instances,  are  chiefly  those  in  which 
no  obvious  delusions  exist.  When  a  man  can  answer  a  few 
simple  questions  correctly,  and  talk  of  his  being  unjustly 
detained  in  an  Asylum,  many  people  are  apt  to  say  that  he 
has  no  ''  insanity"  about  him,  but  all  the  while  he  may  be  so 
deficient  in  will  or  self-control,  or  the  energy  that  is  neces- 
sary to  direct  the  actions,  that  he  is  quite  unfit  to  manage 
himself  or  hold  his  own  in  the  world.  I  have  for  the  last 
three  years  had  under  my  care  a  case  which  illustrates  this 
well.  The  patient  is  a  young  man  who  has  been  respectably 
brought  up,  and  had  some  little  property.  He  had  tried  some 
occupation,  and  was  for  a  few  weeks  a  clerk  in  a  bank,  but 
left  it.  He  then  lived  with  an  aunt,  and  had  no  employment. 
In  consequence  of  some    extravagancies  of   conduct    he   was 


,ov>u 

' 

Pin. 


n 


A 


-7 


VT  ^/'/^/'^ 


a^ful 


i^^^-ii^krjUJ^    -^i)^^[^£i 


/l^  -JjS^c^S^ 


i^-o-i^>C 


■o^^<^  £^^    e^^mX 


.^:z>n.d^\^^^j^    ^tl^~ 


OTi, 


19 

placed  in  the  Asylum^  and  soon  settled  down  comfortably^ 
His  hours  were  spent  in  fussy  idleness,  thoiigh  he  talked 
as  if  his  time  were  so  filled  up  he  could  not  undertake  any- 
thing: he  had  also  several  silly  projects.  He  was  always 
writing  letters,  sending  for  catalogues  which  were  advertised 
gratis,  almanacks,  shilling  books,  &cc.,  and  orderingvariousthings 
without  any  idea  of  paying  for  them,  but  was  quite  unaware  of 
the  inconsistency  of  his  conduct.  After  a  time  he  wanted  an 
estate,  was  very  anxious  to  get  married,  and  proposed  to  build 
a  church  on  Lundy  Island.  Now  this  man^s  ordinary  con- 
versation showed  none  of  the  absurd  ideas  that  are  expected 
as  signs  of  insanity,  but  his  conduct,  taken  as  a  whole,  was 
proof  of  the  real  state  of  his  mind.  Had  he  been  rich,  and 
made  the  subject  of  a  Lunacy  Commission,  probably  the 
jury  which  found  Mr.  Windham  not  insane  would  have  given 
this  man  a  similar  verdict.  His  letters,  generally,  were  very 
amusing,  and  showed  the  condition  of  his  mind.  On  one 
occasion  he  wrote  to  a  London  tradesman  for  specimens  of 
dies  and  paper,  &c.,  and  his  letter  was  sent  back  to  me  as  un- 
intelligible.    It  was  as  follows  : — 

"  F.  M.  R.  returns  his  best  thanks  and  desires  to  acknow- 
ledge the  safe  receipt  of  the  letter  containing  the  monographic 
devices,  and  if  Messrs.  P.  will  have  the  die  cut,  in  nice,  exact 
style,  and  500  medium  envelopes,  half  ream  of  paper,  &c.  it 
will  much  oblige.  If  in  the  event  of  my  not  paying  the 
entire  order  at  once,  you  will  obligingly  give  me  credit,  and 
this  you  need  not  fear  to  do.  I  much  wish  in  the  centre  of 
the  seal  to  have  a  light-house  represented,  as  I  wish  so  much 
to  be  enabled  erecting  one  on  the  Channel  side  of  the  Devon- 
shire coast,^'  &c. 

"  P.  S.     Should  a  G.  use  black  wax  ?  " 

"  One  incident,  which  I  may  term  the  second  striking  one, 
transpired  yesterday.     I  was  just  intending  to  seal  the  letter; 


20 

I  had  no  vesta  matches  by  me,  consequently  left  my  writing 
desk  and  proceeded  into  the  next  ward,  where,  quite  unexpec- 
tedly to  me,  a  patient  had  departed  this  life,  aiid  was  laid  out. 
With  respect  to  the  seal,  let  it  be,^^  &c.,  &c. 

An  ordinary  stranger  might  converse  for  some  time  with 
such  a  patient  as  this  without  getting  any  answer  which 
would  be  inconsistent  with  sanity,  but  the  above  letter  would 
convince  anybody. 

(7)  There  is  one  condition  in  which  the  character  of  the  hand- 
writing may  be  of  great  assistance  in  diagnosis,  viz.,  the  disease 
commonly  known  as  "general  paralysis/^  I  mean  by  this 
term  the  disease  characterised  chiefly  by  the  existence  of 
delusions  of  an  extravagant  nature  at  first,  and  followed  by 
paralysis  and  general  enfeeblement  of  the  limbs  and  complete 
dementia,  running  an  average  course  of  three  or  four  years, 
and  always  ending  fatally ;  a  disease  well  known  in  every  public 
asylum,  but  not  at  all  so  clearly  recognised  out  of  doors. 
In  this  disease,  the  early  symptoms  creep  on  insidiously, 
and  are  often  only  an  exaggeration  of  the  ordinary  habits  of 
thought  and  action  of  certain  over-confident  and  pushing 
individuals ;  so  that  in  most  cases,  people  are  deceived  as  to 
what  is  really  going  on.  It  is,  however,  in  the  early  stages 
that  the  recognition  of  this-disease  is  important,  for  after  a 
certain  period,  when  the  physical  symptoms  declare  them- 
selves, the  diagnosis  is  easy  enough ;  and  it  is  in  the  first  course 
of  the  malady  that  it  is  needful  to  interfere.  It  is  a  malady 
from  which  the  richer  classes,  and  those  actively  engaged  in 
the  excitement  of  speculation,  or  the  harass  of  commercial 
life,  particularly  suffer,  and  at  the  commencement  patients  are 
prone  to  squander  their  money  and  commit  numerous  extrava- 
gancies which  affect  the  interests  of  others.  This  is  the  time 
when  friends  should  interfere  to  save  the  needless  waste  of 
property,  and  often  to  control  the  actions  of  the  individual,  and 


Eg./  ?1  W 


/7t  ^£-'/~yy\.  ULd^ 


e^ 


'^^^-    ^  ^^y>^,     (T,^     a.     h^'-y^  y£.<^^^>.^^ 


^^  ^^n^ 


•^  ^L^. 


4^'^    ^ 


^^J^.^^^^^ 


^     /  /i.<^ 


^  -^ 


<f  ^^^^ 


^      ^h"^ 


y 


F'cg-  3. 


JL/" 


^^c^^^ 


^. 


^ 


.^::>' 


"X-^^yzA^^ 


Fui4 


^e^ 


^^^ 


V^  /- 


^^ 


"~y        j^-^z,.^ 


y^^^^^F/  ///-r^ 


21 

it  is  then  that  the  medical  man  is  consulted,  but  it  is  seldom 
that  the  latter  likes  to  incur  the  risk  or  odium  of  consider- 
ing the  patient  as  insane  at  this  stage ;  he  prefers  waiting  till 
the  extravagancies  become  more  pronounced,  or  the  physical 
weakness  shows  more  clearly  the  nature  of  the  disease. 

Now,  any  fact  that  would  tend  to  facilitate  the  early  de- 
termination of  such  cases  is  of  great  value,  and  I  wish  to 
direct  attention  to  the  aid  that  may  be  derived  from  study- 
ing the  handwriting  under  these  circumstances.  It  is  easily 
seen  that,  in  a  progressive  disease,  attended  by  increasing 
muscular  weakness,  the  character  of  the  writing  must  change ; 
but  I  do  not  think  that  attention  has  been  generally  drawn 
to  what  I  might  call  the  progressive  degeneration  of  the  writing 
in  this  disease.  Now,  I  do  not  hesitate  to  say  that,  excluding 
local  disease,  which  might  impair  the  power  of  writing,  and 
setting  aside  also  the  mere  effects  of  age,  there  is  no  other 
known  disease  which  alters  the  handwriting  in  the  peculiar 
way  this  is  modified  by  what  is  called  general  paralysis  of  the 
insane. 

If  this  be  true,  the  study  of  the  writing  of  such  patients 
at  once  assumes  a  fresh  importance.  The  accompanying 
figures  show  the  extreme  changes  that  occur ;  but  the  point  to 
be  remembered  is  this — that  if  such  changes  are  the  natural 
result  of  a  certain  period  of  this  disease,  how  important  it  is 
to  be  on  the  alert  for  the  minor  alterations  which  occur  earlier. 

Fig.  I  (plate  4)  is  the  writing  of  a  gentleman  who  has  died 
from  general  paralysis.  This  is  an  example  of  his  writing  in 
comparative  health,  and  it  was  a  bold,  vigorous  style. 

Fig.  2  (plate  4)  is  the  writing  of  the  same  person  only  a  few 
months  later;  but  how  changed!  What  strikes  an  observer  in 
this,  is  the  irregularity,  the  sliakiness,  and  the  disconnection  of 
the  letters.  The  contrast  between  Fig,  i  and  2  is  as  well  marked 
as   can  be  imagined,  but  there  must  have    been  a  time  when 


2% 

the  alteration  began  to  be  perceptible,  and  that  was  the  period 
when  such  observation  would  have  been  of  value.  In 
forming  an  opinion,  it  is,  of  course,  necessary  to  be  acquain- 
ted with  the  patient^s  writing  in  health,  and  also  to  consider 
his  age,  and  then  the  comparison  of  the  writing  in  health 
and  in  disease  becomes  of  great  value.  This  indication,  too, 
is  of  far  greater  service  among  the  rich  and  educated  than 
among  the  poorer  classes^  who  seldom  have  a  distinctive  style 
of  their  own,  and  who  are  unpractised  in  the  art. 

Figs.  3  and  4  (plate  4)  illustrate  the  writing  of  a  man  in  an 
humble  sphere,  who  was  under  my  care  for  the  mania  of 
general  paralysis. 

Fig.  4  (plate  4)  is  his  writing  in  health ;  and  there  is  a  vigour 
in  the  words  "  July^^  and  "  Paid,^^  which  contrasts  strongly 
with  the  words  in  Fig.  3. 

Fig.  3  (plate  4)  is  a  fac-simile  of  his  writing  soon  after  his  ad- 
mission. At  that  time  I  diagnosed  general  paralysis,  but  it  was 
in  an  early  stage,  and  as  the  muscular  symptoms  were  not  far 
developed,  the  case  was  not  one  recognised  by  all  as  such. 
The  subsequent  course,  however,  quite  confirmed  my  opinion. 
The  last  two  lines  are  characteristic  examples  of  the  writing 
of  such  patients.  I  would  suggest  that,  with  these  instances 
before  us,  we  cannot  refuse  the  conclusion  that  the  writing 
of  general  paralytics  is,  in  a  certain  stage,  distinctive;  that, 
excluding  certain  local  conditions,  there  is  nothing  else  that 
produces  such  a  gradual  and  decided  change;  and  that,  re- 
cognising this  progressive  degradation  as  a  consequence  of  this 
disease,  it  is  well  to  watch  for  the  earliest  indications  of  such 
change  as  a  material  aid  in  diagnosis. 


APPENDIX. 


In  the  position  I  occupy  I  receive  a  good  many  letters  from 
the  poorer  class^  and  have  often  had  from  some  of  my  cor- 
respondents very  odd  specimens.  The  three  following  are 
from  individuals  belonging  to  what  is  called  the  sane  portion 
of  the  public.  In  No.  i  the  contrast  between  T.  R.^s  style 
and  those  in  the  preceding  pages  is  perhaps  not  so  well 
marked  as  one  would  like  to  expect. 

No.  I. 

This  is  from  a  man  whose  wife  was  in  the  Asylum^  but  not 
well  enough  to  leave ;  she  subsequently  recovered  perfectly. 

"  Sir^ — i  have  takeing  the  Liboty  to  ask  you  if  you  will 
let  my  Wife  come  out  if  i  come  with  her  cloths,  i  have  paid 
up  to  saterdy  night,  and  was  forced  to  rob  a  man  of  his 
wages  to  pay  you.  i  paid  all  i  could  get  before,  and  then 
handed  out  of  the  room  :  so  now  I  have  declined  paying  any 
mor;  if  you  will  keep  her  you  must  keep  her  on  your  own 
money,  for  i  have  no  more  without  Robery,  and  i  cannot  do 
that  as  the  laws  are  against  it  here. 

"  please  to  right  so  that  i  have  it  on  Friday  morning 
if  you  will  or  not ;  if  you  will  not  right  let  my  wife  right  so 
that  i  have  it,  but  not  force  her  to  say  no :  if  you  let  her 
come  out  you  never  shall  be  plagued  with  her  any  more  with 
my  consent,  if  you  could  not  keep  her  for  9  shilling  a  week 
you  ought  to  have  sent  her  home  and  i  would  have  tryed. 
i  might  have  had  a  shirt  washed  for  that  other  shilling. 

"  From  T.  R." 


34 
No.   2. 

This  is  from  a  person  I  never  saw,  to  whom  formal  notice 
of  his  father^s  death  was  sent  from  the  Asylum  : — 

"  dealer  Frend  gest  a  line  or  tue  ine  answer  to  youer  leter 
of  the  deth  of  Farther  and  i  ame  sorey  to  say  that  we  are 
poore  peepel,  so  we  canot  Bee  the  expence  of  taken  the 
Bodey  away  to  Bee  Bered  so  it  must  aboide  healer  ware  we 
was  aBell  to  have  it  home  we  would.  But  we  canot,  and  if 
please  god  some  of  us  will  Bee  at  the  silam  on  Friday  morn- 
ing,    our  kind  reespects  to  all.'' 

No.  3. 

"  Respective  Sir, 
"  I  right  to  Inform  you  that  I  received  your  Letter,  and 
was  truly  thankful  to  you  for  your  truble  and  Likewise  for 
you  kind  attension  to  my  dear  diseased  wife,  and  If  all  is 
well  I  shall  be  thair  on  Monday,  and  respection  a  poste 
mortal  examanation  I  am  quite  agreable.  If  it  wod  be  con- 
veneant  I  shod  like  her  to  be  Interd  about  13. 

"  Yrs,  &c.,  J.  K.'' 

Among  letters  addressed  to  me  I  have  received  the  fol- 
owing  versions  of  the  words  "  Fulbourn  Asylum  :" — 


"  Fulbon  asulam,'' 
"  Fulham  Esylum." 
"  Fulbuon  asyllum.'' 
"  Fulborn  Asalym." 

The  ingenuity  in  error  displayed  here  is  curious 


''  Fullbun  Asilom." 
"  Foolbun  Asilium." 
"  Fullem  Asilem.'' 


<iU 


