OPI/SC 


Glass  _iL_^L^/-0- 


Book 


-0 


Id 


t£S6 


\ 


fai'M 


BY 


STEPHEN     PRENTIS,    M.    A. 


( For  private  circulation. ) 


J.-B.   HUART, 


©asms?. 


1855. 


^ 


^H6' 


.- 


CONTENTS. 


1836. 


—1844. 


Scene  from  «  The  Cid.  » ) 

\    Published  in 
Elegy ) 

(   Stanzas  from  *  The  Wreck  of  the  Roscommon.  & \ 

(   The  dylng  soldier  and  the  girl  upon  the  rock.    (  From  the  same.  ) i 

(  La  Belle  Grecque  ) 

Llnes  to   {  I 

(^  La  Belle  Rose        \ 

The  Bas-Bretons  (a  jeu  d'esprit) 

The  Rocks  of  Penmarc'h,  a  sketch  upon  the  coast  of  Lower  Brittany.    . 

The  Insurrection  of  June  ,  as  it  was  felt  at  Dinan 

i    Specimens  of  Translation  from  the  French 

The  Lay  of  the  Lark ^ 

Le  Grand-Bey,  or  The  Tomb  of  Chateaubrund 

A  Tribute  to  May 

Winter-Flowers 

A  Sketch  of  Levy's  Warehouse  ,  S'  Margaret's  Bank  ,  Rochester 

La  Marseillaise  ,  a  translated  compilation 

The  Flight  of  the  Swallow 

The  Revel  of  the  Missel-Thrush 

Reflections  in  a  cemetery  abroad 

Nelson 

The  debtor's  dodge  ,  or  the  miller  and  the  bailiff 

The  Common  Home  ,  or  the  grave  again , 

Lines  to  a  post 1853. 


•1845. 


■1818. 


1819. 


■1851 


■1852. 


*  One  of  five  others ,  that ,  deservedly  or  no ,  were'spared  the  flames ,  to  which  the  Play  itself— 
written  in  1829,  a  crude  composition  and  anything  but  a  translation,  whether  loose  or  literal,  of  the 
celebrated  chef-d'ceuvre  of  Corneille ,— was  speedily  consigned.  Rs  «  evident  aim  at  something  good, » 
however,  (the  opinion  formed  of  it  by  William  Godwin)  induced  the  author  to  act  upon  a  maxim  of  my 
Uncle  Newbury's,  and  « try  again.  »  The  sequel,  in  the  shape  of  these  opuscula,  is  in  part  before 
the  reader,  who  ,  of  course,  will  judge  for  himself  of  its  failure  or  success. 


By  way  of  finale  to  his  publications  in  tlie  larger  shape ,  the  author  has  added  to  the  brochures , 
accompanied  by  a  title-page  and  a  table  of  contents ,  a  reprint  in  i'°  of  divers  of  his  verses ,  that 
originally  appeared  in  the  minor  and  commodious  form ,  which  he  means  to  readopt.  Such  of  his 
accustomed  readers,  then,  as  may  wish  (like  himself)  to  get  the  things  together  into  one  volume,  may 
do  so  with  very  little  trouble  and  at  very  little  cbst.  Should  the  collection  of  them ,  as  possessed  by 
this  or  that  friend ,  chance  to  be  imperfect ,  the  deficit  is  traceable  to  an  inadvertency  in  keeping  or 
the  inability  to  give.  As  far  as  the  limited  copies  would  allow ,  the  writer  has  endeavoured ,  by  the 
distribution  of  them  here ,  to  cement  his  social  relations  abroad ,  and  preserve  unbroken ,  by  means  of 
the  simple  envoi ,  his  older  ties  at  home. 

Dinan.  March  10">, 

1853. 


SCENE  FROM     THE  CID; 


AN    UNPUBLISHED    DRAMA. 


ACT   V. 

Scene  i.     A   retired  part  of  the  grounds  of  Ximenu's  new   residence.     An   old 
chapel  in  the  foreground.     The  moon  just  rising. 

Rodeeigo.     (entering  cautiously.) 

Tis  well.     This  labyrinth  had  maz'd  my  steps, 

But  for  old  Marcos'  honest  clue.     There  gleams 

The  lightning-blasted  cedar  he  describ'd. 

And  hither  doth  she  come,  on  moonlit  eves, 

E'en  by  Elvira  unattended ,  as 

He  saith,  to  mourn,  and  meditate,  and  pray. 

None  dare  her  lonely  orisons  disturb. 

So  hath  ordain'd  our  feeling  Sovereign, 

Who  by  his  royal  presence  ne'er  hath  thrown 

Suspicion  on  his  motives.     With  this  arm , 

Once  more  to  strength  restor'd,  such  kingly  grace, 

Should  life  be  spar'd,  will  I  one  day  repay. 

What  "s  here ,  that  seems  some  antiquated  chapel 

With  mossy  cushion?  nothing  doth  it  bear 

To  show  its  dedication ,  save  these  few 


Funereal  flowers,  that  smell  of  yesterday. 

What  was  that  sound?  the  throbbing  of  my  heart 

Again?  this  eve  gone  by,  may  its  dull  beat 

Be  hush'd  for  ever !     I  already  find 

The  real  punishment's  to  live,  not  die. 

Far  more  than  death  I  dread  an  interview, 

For  which  far  more  than  life  I'd  gladly  risk. 

(He  listens,   then  hastily  conceals  himself.    Ximejnw  enters  with  a  small  wreath. 
Xim.         My  flowers  begin  to  fail  me.     These  are  all 
I  've  cull'd  to-day,  to  offer  with  my  pray'r. 

(She  enters  the  chapel,  and  takes  off  the  faded  wreath,  replacing  it  with  the 
fresh  one.     She  throws  the  former  into  the  stream,  running  by.) 

Go ,  go  your  ways ,  ye  wither'd  short-liv'd  things ! 
Ye  are  as  frail  as  mortal  happiness- 
Duration  dwells  above,  and  there  I  fix- 

(She  reenters  the  chapel,  where  she  Kneels  and  prays,  while  Roderigo  steals 
from  where  he  had  concealed  himself,  and  kneels,-  so  as  to  seen  by  XiMENA  on 
coming  forth  from  the  chapel..  His  face  is  shrouded  in  Ms  mantle.  On  beholding 
him  in  that  attitude,  Ximeka  seems  undecided  to  stay  or  go.      At  last  speaks.) 

Hide  not  thy  face  :  my  heart  betrays  thy  name. 

What  dost  thou  here?  kneel'st  thou  to:  Heav'n  or  me? 

Both  hast  thou  outrag'd.     For  thy  sin  to  Him, 

May  all  my  trials — reason  overthrown , 

Hope  crush'd ,  love  blighted,  young  heart  broken — win  thee 

Thy  God's  forgiveness !     For  thy  wrongs  to  me , 

I  struggle  to  forget  them.     Answer  not, 

But  go  the  way  thou  cam'st. — (going.) 
Bod.         (in  a  low  lone)  Ximena! 

Xim.  What 

Would'st  thou  with  me? 


;Ron.  Nothing. 

Xim.  Thou  tellest,  then, 

lu  one  short  word  the  story  of  our  love , 
For  that  is  nothing  now. — (going.) 

Ron.         (in  a  loader  tone)  Ximena ! 

Xim.  Go 

While  yet  thou  may'st.     These  trees  have  all  a  tongue. 

Rod.        If  thou  didst  ever 

Xim.  — hist!  his  spirit  hears 

Each  word ,  and  counts  the  very  syllables. 
Away ! — (going) 

Ron.         (louder  still)  Ximena! — (rises  from  his  knees,  and  hurries 

towards  her.) 

Xim.  Fly,  if  thou  wonld'st  live! — [listens  anxiously.) 

Ron.         Life  without  hope  is  death  :  I  've  naught  to  lose. 

Xim.  Still  selfish  as  before,  of  me  thou  ne'er 

Dost  think.     Is't  not  enough ,  that  I  with  thee 

Thus  risk  my  own  esteem,  but  thou  must  needs 

Proclaim  my  weakness  to  the  treacherous  air? — (listens  again.) 

If,  as  thou  say'st,  life  without  hope  is  death, 

What  without  honour  would  it  be? 

Ron.  The  thing, 

That  injur'd  honour,  unaveng'd,  would  be. 

Xim.         Check  that  presumptuous  and  exulting  tone! 
Was  it  for  thee,  with  spendthrift  petulance, 
To  play  such  fearful  stakes?     Was  it  for  thee, 
With  bold  and  self-commission'd  arm ,  to  mar 
Tb'  Almighty's  work?    Who  gifted  thee  with  power 
To  ply  so  soon  the  orphan-making  trade? 
Who  order'd  thee  to  smite  me  to  the  dust, 
And  trample  on  my  feelings,  till  I  crawl'd 


Like  an  insensate  reptile  on  the  earth! 

Who  order'd  thee  to  pile  upon  my  young 

And  inoffensive  head  a  mass  of  ills , 

Too  mighty  to  endure? 
Eod.  I  had  no  choice. 

Xim.         Thou  mean'st,  no  love  for  me. 

Rod.  The  wrong  was  great. 

Xim.         So  should  thy  mind  have  been. 
Rod.  And  "gainst  my  sire. 

Xim.         Could  he  not  right  himself! 
Rod.  He  was  too  old 

To  'venge  his  house's  fame, 
Xim.  And  thou  by  me 

Too  lov'd,  to  work  the  misery  of  mine. 

But  that  I  guess  our  jarring  fathers  us'd 

Such  hasty  speech ,  as  neither  knight  could  brook , 

This  converse  ne'er  had  been.     E'en  now  it  seems 

Like  sacrilege  to  linger  here  with  one, 

Whose  steel,  together  with  the  parent's  heart, 

Ahn'd  at  the  daughter's  too. 
Rod.  Take  ,  then ,  the  sword. 

Xim.         I  dare  not  even  look  upon  the  blade  : 

It  is  so  blotted  with  my  father's  blood. 

My  duty  bids  me  pardon  thee  the  past, 

But  we  must  never,  never  meet  again. 
Rod.         I  11  trouble  thee  no  more. — (walks  in  the  direction  of  Ihe  villa.) 
Xim.  Roderigo ! 

This  path  will  lead  thee  to  thy  doom. 
Rod.  And  that 

To  my  despair  :  I  choose  between  the  two. — (walking  as  before.) 
Xim.        Spare  my  weak  brain  :  it  hath  been  craz'd  already. 


Rod.         Thou  hast  heen  happier,  then,  than  I,  for  still 
O'er  mine  did  Reason  mount  her  -wretched  guard. 
I  have  dragg'd  through  a  century  of  woe, 
Though  in  my  years  so  young.     I  have  liv'd  o'er 
— Yea !  times  more  many  than  the  sphered  stars , 
That  spangle  yon  celestial  canopy — 
Each  moment  of  our  love. 
Xim.  — Speak  not  of  that. — 

Rod.         E'en  from  the  hour,  when,  sad  and  undeceive! 
In  its  oft-baffled,  oft-renew'd  pursuit 
Of  some  congenial  mind,  with  thine  mine  own 
First  met  and  lov'd. — Thou  wert  the  blissful  coast, 
For  which  so  long  its  chartless  course  it  steer'd. — 
Thou  wert  my  dream,  vouchsaf'd  and  bodi'd  forth 
From  my  trane'd  soul.     I  woke  and  found  thee,  like 
Another  Eve,  sweet-smiling  at  my  side. — 
I  lov'd — I  honour's — for  I  fear'd  thee.     When 
My  timorous  hand  first  felt  the  thrill  of  thine , 
Of  thy  timidity  was  I  afraid. 
As  the  child  runs  from  what  he  frightens,  or 
The  thirsty  ring-dove  cowers  its  silly  plume 
At  its  peck'd  semblance  in  the  startled  spring, 
So  did  the  tremor  of  thy  blush  call  up 
A  sympathetic  coward  to  my  cheek. 
But  Time  emboldens  Love;  and  1  became 
More  confident,  though  silent  still.     So  fidl 
Of  joy  I  was,  I  had  no  room  for  words. 
The  thousand  tongues  of  heav'n  and  earth  were  all 
Interpreters.     Mine,  like  the  o'erladen  bee, 
Clogg'd  with  the  luscious  cargo  of  my  thoughts, 
Could  syllable  but  sighs.     This  could  not  last. 


Tkeir's  was  a  borrow'd  voice  at  best.    Love's  self 

Reinain'd  to  speak;  and  pantingly  he  spoke, 

When  first  my  passion-fever'd  lip  drank  in 

The  nectar-kiss  of  thine.     That  epoch  doth 

Th'  authentic  annals  of  my  heart  commence. 

It's  light  romancing  page  of  thitherto 

Was  but  the  fabling  record  of  a  fond 

Misguided  aspiration  after  love. 

The  vows,  I  utter'd  at  thy  altar,  reach'd 

Far,  far  beyond  the  transitory  hour  : 

I  swore  them  unto  Time  as  well  as  thee. 

(Xi&iesa  hides  her  face  with  one  hand,  while  with  the  other  she  motions  him 
In   si  I  nice.) 

I  dare  not  ask  thee  to  recall  that  date; 

Still  may  we  o'er  its  recollection  weep. 

Thou  would'st  have  cause  to  shudder  at  my  sight , 

Had  not  stern  Honour  fore'd  me  to  the  deed. 

Thou  would'st  have  cause  to  ban  me  from  thy  heart, 

And  set  the  price  of  hate  upon  my  head, 

Had  not  brief-exil'd  Love,  returning  fierce, 

With  pains  of  wrath  and  penalties  of  fire 

Thy  short  proscription  and  his  own  aveng'd. 

Thou  would'st  have  cause  to  strip  me  of  the  poor 

Pittance,  still  left  me  from  the  wreck  of  Hope, 

Had  not  the  black-wing'd  hurricane  of  fate 

Upon  a  barren  shore  thy  lover  cast 

To  feed  awhile  on  bitterness  and  die. 
Xim.         Roderigo !  dear  Roderigo  ! 
Eon.  Now 

May  Heaven's  imperishable  scroll  record 

A  word,  that  wafts  my  pardon  to  its  gate! 


Xim.         Alas !  shall  Love's  fond  finger  never  press 
A  flow'r  so  gently  but  the  odour  flies! 

Rod.         Oh !  my  Xhnena ! 

Xim.  Look  not  at  me  thus! 

Our  paths  must  lie  apart. 

~Rooi  Yet  once  how  near, 

How  scarcely  sever  d  were  the  banks ,  whence  we 
Our  happy  vows  exchang'd!     Two  fatal  months! 

Xim.         If  thou  dost  feel 

Rod.  — thou  knowest  that  I  do; 

Since  the  sweet  seraph,  in  thy  voice  that  dwells, 
Doth  fail  to  cahn  this  tempest  of  my  tears. 

{The  bell  of  the  Oratory  of  the  Villa  rings.) 

Xim.         Away,  or  thou  art  lost!     I  have  my  time 

O'erstay'd.     Regone,  and  live  for  happier  days. 
Go,  as  thou  cam'st. 

Rod.  Xhnena! 

Xim.  Fly!  they  come! 

(  Roderigo  is  barely  gone ,  when  enter  Elvira  and  Marcos.  ) 
Elvira.    Thou  truant!  here  yet  loitering  so  long! 

Come,  we  are  late  :  the  Vespers-bell  hath  ceas'd. 

{Exeunt. 


™— i»oeQ®Q@QOOOCiiP-^= 


. 


. 


32.3©^?. 


Already  in  the  tomb !  so  yonng — so  fair — 

So  fac'd — so  form'd — so  flatter'd —  and  now  tliere! 

So  'press'd  with  life,  yet  so  contented  still 

To  bear  thy  portion  of  its  crushing  ill! 

So  pleas'd,  at  each  short  interval  of  health, 

To  hide  from  anguish ,  and  be  gay  by  stealth , 

Till  Sickness  found  the  runaway  once  more, 

And  coop'd  thee  in  thy  chamber  as  before! — 

Alas!  could  nothing  of  his  sting  disarm 

Death,  the  old  adder,  proof  'gainst  every  charm? 

Could  nothing,  Blary!  nothing,  nothing  save 

Thee,  his  poor  victim,  from  an  early  grave? 

Thy  pleading  face — thy  deprecating  form — 

Too  wan — too  wasted — to  allure  the  worm — 

Thy  gentle  head,  inclining  to  the  bloAV 

Of  the  same  fate,  that  laid  a  brother  low — 

Thy  patient  spirit,  cheerful  and  resign d 

To  pangs ,  that  wrung  thy  body,  not  thy  mind — 

Thy  last  fond  wish,  on  dissolution's  brink, 

To  staunch  the  tears  of  them,  that  saw  thee  sink — 

Could  father,  brother,  sister,  lover,  friend, 

Could  nothing  shield  thee  from  this  timeless  end? 


Could  nothing  guard  thee  from  the  fangs  of  Death, 

Nor  snatch  thee  from  the  poison  of  his  breath? 

No  :  stern,  obtuse,  malignant,  and  unmov'd, 

Blind  to  the  lovely,  loveless  to  the  lov'd, 

And  far  more  ruthless  than  the  tempest's  stroke  f 

Which  spares  the  willow,  and  uproots  the  oak , 

The  Viper  aim'd  his  venom'd  spite  at  thee , 

Nor  bade  thy  weakness  thy  protection  be! — 

And  art  thou  dead?  become  as  one  of  those, 

O'er  whom  the  yew  its  sadd'ning  shadow  throws? 

Of  those,  that,  buri'd  in  their  vaulted  sleep, 

Mourn  with  no  mourners,  weep  with  none  that  weep, 

Cold  as  the  stones ,  that  sepulchre  their  clay, 

As  deaf,  as  mute,  as  motionless  as  they? — 

But  art  thou  dead? — (alas!  that  awful  word! 

How  many  a  breast  it  pierces  like  a  sword?) — 

What  dead?  quite  dead?  for  ever,  ever  gone 

To  that  drear  land,  whence  none,  that  go,  return? 

Where  all  is  blank  unconsciousness,  and  voice 

Is  never  heard  to  murmur  or  rejoice — 

Where  heart  doth  never  beat,  and  never  eye 

Doth  drop  a  tear,  nor  bosom  breathe  a  sigh — 

But  where  the  attributes  of  being  be 

As  obsolete  and  passionless  as  thee! — 

Yes!  thou  art  dead!  and  they,  that  in  thy  face 

Could  each  dear  index  of  affection  trace, 

Those  welcome  signs  must  never  more  survey, 

Irrevocably  gone,  like  yesterday! — 

Thy  place  is  vacant  in  their  house  and  heart, 

Who  muse  on  what  thou  wast — and  what  thou  art — ■ 

A  shape  to  love — an  object  to  create 

Emotions,  bordering  on  all  we  hate — 


A  living  creature — and  a  senseless  clod — 

— How  fearful  are  the  visitings  of  God! — 

"Who,  that  hath  known  thee  in  thine  hour  of  case, 
And  niark'd  thy  vari'd  willingness  to  please — 
Who,  that  hath  heard  thee  join  the  "vocal  strain 
(Some  air  that  brought  thy  childhood  back  again, 
What  time  thy  happy  and  approving  sire 
Stood  forth  the  leader  of  his  little  quire) — 
Who,  that  hath  seen  thee  cast  each  ache  away, 
To  drill  thy  sister's  cherubs  at  their  play, 
The  sergeant  of  their  sports,  their  laughing  head, 

— No,  Mary!  no — thou  never  canst  be  dead! — 
Yet  wherefore  else  this  melancholy  show 
Of  death?  these  dark  habiliments  of  woe? 
This  sombre  silence  in  thy  sister's  room? 
Her  husband's  brow  of  unaccustom'd  gloom? 
Thy  name  unnam'd,  or  only  nam'd  with  tears, 
As  some  chance  record  of  thyself  appears , 
Some  flashing  thought,  some  momentary  gleam 
Of  days,  when  thou  wert  other  than  a  dream? 
Tis  all  too  true!  the  fatal  shaft  hath  sped, 
And ,  Mary !  thou  art  number'd  with  the  dead  ! — 
I  Jut  when — its  bloom ,  its  beauty,  and  its  breath , 
Spoilt ,  erush'd ,  and  tainted ,  by  the  touch  of  Death  ,- 
Some  human  blossom  withers  to  the  view, 
like  pale-leaf 'd  flowers,  unfriended  by  the  dew, 
For  them,  that  witness'd  the  devoted  maid 
Droop  with  each  hour,  and  gradually  fade, 
Is  there  no  babn ,  no  gain ,  no  reas'ning  yet 
Can  soften  grief,  can  qualify  regret, 
Can  teach  surviving  love  its  loss  to  bear, 
And  thank  the  tomb  for  comfort  even  there?] 


Could  nothing  guard  thee  from  the  fangs  of  Death, 

Nor  snatch  thee  from  the  poison  of  his  breath? 

No  :  stern ,  obtuse ,  malignant ,  and  unmov'd , 

Blind  to  the  lovely,  loveless  to  the  lov'd, 

And  far  more  ruthless  than  the  tempest's  stroke  1 

Which  spares  the  willow,  and  uproots  the  oak, 

The  Viper  aim'd  his  venom'd  spite  at  thee, 

Nor  bade  thy  weakness  thy  protection  be! — 

And  art  thou  dead?  become  as  one  of  those, 

O'er  whom  the  yew  its  sadd'ning  shadow  throws? 

Of  those,  that,  buri'd  in  their  vaulted  sleep, 

Mourn  with  no  mourners,  weep  with  none  that  weep, 

Cold  as  the  stones ,  that  sepulchre  their  clay, 

As  deaf,  as  mute,  as  motionless  as  they? — 

But  art  thou  dead  ? — ( alas !  that  awful  word  ! 

How  many  a  breast  it  pierces  like  a  sword?) — 

What  dead?  quite  dead?  for  ever,  ever  gone 

To  that  drear  land,  whence  none,  that  go,  return? 

Where  all  is  blank  unconsciousness,  and  voice 

Is  never  heard  to  murmur  or  rejoice — 

Where  heart  doth  never  beat,  and  never  eye 

Doth  drop  a  tear,  nor  bosom  breathe  a  sigh — 

But  where  the  attributes  of  being  be 

As  obsolete  and  passionless  as  thee! — 

Yes!  thou  art  dead!  and  they,  that  in  thy  face 

Could  each  dear  index  of  affection  trace, 

Those  welcome  signs  must  never  more  survey, 

Irrevocably  gone,  like  yesterday! — 

Thy  place  is  vacant  in  then'  house  and  heart, 

Who  muse  on  what  thou  wast — and  what  thou  art — ■ 

A  shape  to  love — an  object  to  create 

Emotions,  bordering  on  all  we  hate — 


A  living  creature — and  a  senseless  clod — 

— How  fearful  are  the  visitings  of  God! — 

Who ,  that  hath  known  thee  in  thine  hour  of  ease , 
And  niark'd  thy  vari'd  willingness  to  please — 
Who ,  that  hath  heard  thee  join  the  vocal  strain 
( Some  air  that  brought  thy  childhood  back  again , 
What  time  thy  happy  and  approving  sire 
Stood  forth  the  leader  of  his  little  quire) — 
Who,  that  hath  seen  thee  cast  each  ache  away, 
To  drill  thy  sister's  cherubs  at  their  play, 
The  sergeant  of  their  sports,  their  laughing  head, 

— No,  Mary!  no — thou  never  canst  be  dead! — 
Yet  wherefore  else  this  melancholy  show 
Of  death?  these  dark  habiliments  of  woe? 
This  sombre  silence  in  thy  sister's  room? 
Her  husband's  brow  of  unaccustom'd  gloom? 
Thy  name  unnam'd,  or  only  nam'd  Avith  tears, 
As  some  chance  record  of  thyself  appears , 
Some  flashing  thought,  some  momentary  gleam 
Of  days,  when  thou  wert  other  than  a  dream? 
'Tis  all  too  true !  the  fatal  shaft  hath  sped , 
And ,  Mary !  thou  art  number'd  with  the  dead  ! — 
liut  when — its  bloom ,  its  beauty,  and  its  breath , 
Spoilt ,  crush'd ,  and  tainted ,  by  the  touch  of  Death , — 
Some  human  blossom  withers  to  the  view, 
Like  pale-leaf  d  flowers,  unfriended  by  the  dew, 
Foir  them,  that  witness 'd  the  devoted  maid 
Droop  with  each  hour,  and  gradually  fade, 
Is  there  no  balm,  no  gain,  no  reas'ning  yet 
Can  soften  grief,  can  qualify  regret, 
Can  teach  surviving  love  its  loss  to  bear, 
And  thank  the  tomb  for  comfort  even  there?] 


The  night  came  down  again — but  not  as  she 

Comes  down  unto  some  poor,  yet  happy  wight, 
That  falls  asleep,  and  dreams  beneath  a  tree, 

Where  sings  the  wakeful  bird,  and,  care  despite, 
Thus  whdes  away  the  sense  of  penury, — 
Ah!  no,  far  other  was  that  dreadful  night, 
— That  night,  which  seem'd  as  it  would  last  for  ever, 
— That  long,  long  night  of  shiver — shiver — shiver. 


The  night  came  down  again , — but  who  can  paint 

The  anguish  of  the  hourly  dwindling  few, 
( A  doubtful  dozen ,  for  the  steward ,  faint 

With  mortal  ills ,  had  just  his  brother's  hue , ) 

As,  all  their  earnest  efforts  idly  spent, 

The  homeward  hundreds  from  the  cliff  withdrew, 

And  left  the  twelve  to  combat,  as  they  might, 

That  dismal — dreary — dreadful — second  night  ? 


Those  thousands  of  bad  thousands,  steep'd  in  sin, 
Of  warning  God  that  perish 'd  by  the  wrath, 

When  lo !  at  last  they  heard  the  rushing  din 
Of  disembowelTd  waters  on  their  path, 

And  rain,  that  seem'd  for  ever  to  begin, 

And  saw  with  fear,  for  which  no  language  hath 

Expression,  the  Ark  close  and  drift  away, 

Could  best  interpret  what  I  wish  to  say. 


«0h!  dark!  dark!  dark! — as  Samson's  visipn  dark 
Was  Nature  then  : — about ,  above ,  below, 

No  speck  of  light  could  those  poor  wretches  mark, 
For  surfless  was  the  jaded  Ocean's  flow, 

And  the  as  weary  seabird  like  a  bark 

Was  heaving  with  the  wave,  and  s  wing  of  snow 

Was  folded ,  or  but  spread  iu  skimming  flight  , 

Nor  broke  the  raven  blackness  of  the  night. 


I  spake  of  whistling  wind  and  screaming  gull , 
But  over  was  the  tempest,  and  the  mew 

Was  cryiug  with  a  lazy  note  and  dull, 
Yet  still  it  sounded  to  that  timid  crew 

As  'twere  the  storm  astir  again,  which  full 
Of  ire,  was  only  waiting  to  renew 

Its  whirling  work  with  each  devoted  form , 
— Alas !  the  cold  could  do  without  the  storm. 


Devoid  as  Lear's  daughters  were  of  ruth 

For  th'  'fond  old  man,'  that  dower'd  them   with  thrones. 
The  wolfish  east-wind  with  its  gnaAving  tooth , 

To  howl  too  busy,  ate  into  their  bones, 
Albe't  the  tars ,  to  tell  the  cheerless  truth , 

For  mutual  warmth  were  lying  on  the  stones , 
+  Huddled  as  close,  as  in  the  winter  be 
The  swallows  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea. 

'  Samson  Agonistes. 

Milton. 

f  The  very  absurd  and  desperate  hypothesis  of  the  swallows,  at  the  fall  of  autumn ,  conglomerating 
themselves  into  one  huge  ball ,  and  then  sinking  into  the  ocean-bed  to  sleep  away  the  winter  months , 
is,  unless  I  very  greatly  mistake,  alluded  to  in  BosweU's  Life  of  Johnson. 


The  steward ,  with  his  hroken  shoulder,  kept 
Watch  by  his  brother,  who  was  dying  fast, 

Though  easy  as  could  be ,  because  he  slept 

The  sleep,  that  ushers  death,  which  calmly  cast 

Its  shadow  o'er  his  face.     At  whiles  there  crept 
A  dreamy  smile  across  it,  but  at  last 

A  deep,  deep  sigh  he  gave,  and  then  another, 

And  then  the  steward  was  without  a  brother. 


The  engineer  and  Cato,  the  black  cook, 

And  woman-passenger  were  close  together, 
Taking  as  small  a  space,  as  ever  took 

Three  human  shapes ,  to  cradle  from  the  weather. 
Whate'er  they  felt,  they  never  mov'd  or  spoke, 
— Perchance  they  were  incapable  of  either, — 
Till  lo  !  the  former  sideways  from  his  seat 
Fell  off,  and  stiffen'd  at  the  others'  feet. 


The  woman ,  who  had  spent  her  hardy  life , 

In  feeding  swine  upon  the  wilds  of  Kerry, 

-A  peasant's  daughter  and  a  peasant's  wife, — 

Though  badly,  bore  it  best.     The  man  was  very 

Hesign'd,  and  like  a  sheep  beneath  the  knife, 
Th'  o'eiiaden  camel  or  the  dromedary. 

Born  of  a  tribe,  where  suffering  is  dumb, 

He  moan'd  or  murmur'd  not,  but  let  it  come. 


The  soldier  and  the  girl,  his  woes  that  nurs'd, 
Their  station  since  the  morn  had  never  ehang'd, 

But  there  they  were,  she  holding,  as  at  first, 
His  head  upon  her  lap,  and  unestrang'd 

From  thought  of  him  hy  hunger  or  by  thirst 
Or  sorrow  of  her  own.     Her  eye  had  rang'd 

Not  e'en  one  selfish  moment  from  her  love, 

As  true  as  to  its  dying  mate  the  dove. 


JN'ot  dead  he  was,  and  yet  his  lids  were  clos'd, 
As  if  the  fleshless  fingers  of  old  Death 

Had  press'd  them  down. — When  shivering  he  doz'd 
After  the  storm  ,  ( which ,  as  the  stanza  saith , 

Was  short)  her  cloak  she  tenderly  dispos'd 
So  as  to  shield  him  as  he  lay.     His  breath 

Being  mute,  her  hand  upon  his  heart  she  kept, 

Which  said ,  from  time  to  time ,  he  only  slept. 


Her  steadfast  face  was  poring  upon  his , 

And  strove  to  read  the  characters  of  life 
In  features,  silent  as  the  marble  is 

Of  some  unletter'd  tomb.     Her  soul  was  rife 
With  urgent  griefs  and  tender  memories, 
— The  present  and  the  past  at  feeling  strife, — 
And,  so  reverting  to  their  earliest  years, 
She  kissd  his  cheek ,  and  bath'd  it  with  her  tears ; 


Which  show'd ,  that  he  not  merely  slept ,  but  dream'd 
Since  soon  he  smil'd ,  as  that  distilling  show'r 

Of  hitter  sadness  on  his  visage  stream'd, 
Yet  took  the  shape  of  joy  by  fancy's  povv'r, 

For  she,  in  his  fond  vision  as  it  seein'd, 

Above  Mm  bent,  with  many  a  dripping  flow'r, 

All  freshly  gather'd  in  a  shady  place, 

And  shook  the  dewy  drops  upon  his  face. 


He  dream'd,  in  that  long-lasting,  deathy  sleep, 

(  As  pulmonary  people  do , )  of  what 
Had  charni'd  him  when  a  child , — the  shelving  steep , 

That  lin'd  their  native  Lee, — the  double  cot, 
Where  both  were  bred  and  born ,  and  of  its  deep 

Retirement  in  the  wood, — the  plashy  spot 
They  paddled  in ,  'till ,  summer  daylight  past , 
They  loiter'd  home  all  hand-in-hand  at  last. 


He  dream'd ,  as  flew  the  swift  delusion  on , 
Of  happy  sights ,  and  happy  happy  sounds , 

Of  young  companions,  at  the  set  of  sun, 
That  sported  as  the  lamb  on  hillock  bounds , 

And  scudded  quick  as  leveret  doth  run, 

— A  noisy  group,  that  trac'd  their  romping  rounds 

About  the  old,  hereditary  tree, 

Where  play'd  their  fathers'  fathers  by  the  Lee. 


He  dream'd,  as  Hew  the  swift  delusion  by, 
Of  one  mute  stripling  and  one  silent  maid , 

That  gaz'd  together  on  the  gloAving  sky, 

Unconscious,  that  the  while  no  word  was  said 

So  much  they  seem'd  to  say!  For  love,  as  I 
Opine ,  is  then  most  eloquent ,  afraid 

When  most  it  is  of  words ,  since ,  sooth  to  tell , 

They  do  but  break  the  soul's  entrancing  spell. 


He  dream'd,  as  flew  the  swift  delusion  past, 
Of  coming  from  his  hard ,  enforc'd  campaign 

War-wounded  home,  and  of  the  look  he  cast 
Beneath  him,  when  he  trod  the  height  again, 

That  topp'd  the  vale  he  saw  with  tears  at  last 
Of  joy  so  keen ,  it  border'd  upon  pain , 

Which  gush'd ,  as ,  circled  by  her  arms  so  fair, 

He  clasp'd  his  Kate,  and  felt  that  she  was  there. 


(Her  lustrous,  large,  and  liquid  eyes  were  grey, 

Whose  brows  reliev'd  her  forehead  white  and  wide, 

And  arch'd  that  marble  front,  whence  fell  away 
Her  brown  abundant  hair  on  either  side 

O'er  shoulders ,  which  were  beautiful  as  they 
Were  easy.     In  a  word,  by  nature's  pride, 

She  look'd  the  lady,  though  a  peasant's  daughter, 

And  mov'd  as  swims  the  swan  upon  the  water. ) 


That  vivid  vision,  harbinger  of  death, 

With  its  too  true  and  strong ,  hnpassion'd  tears , 

Awoke  him ,  as  his  leaden  lids  beneath 

They  forc'd  their  fluent  way.     He  sees  or  hears 

Nothing  at  first — nor  cloud,  nor  howUng  breath 
Of  winter — -and  the  film  so  slowly  clears, 

That  e'en  yon  wide  and  wrecking  sea  doth  seem 

The  small,  still  river  of  his  recent  dream, 


Phelim  !  my  joy  !  I  thought  ye'd  never  wake. 

I've  done  my  best  to  screen  ye  from  the  cold; 
Then  speak  to  me,  my  love!  oh!  do  do  speak, 

And  tell  me  ye  are  warm.     Come ,  let  me  fold 
Your  oivn  kind  gift  about  ye,  dear!  and  take 

Your  numby  hands  in  mine.     The  cloak  is  old, 
tin  I  light,  and  dry,  and  comfortable  yet.    » 
( And  all  the  while  'twas  heavy  with  the  wet. ) 


Those  well-known  accents,  and  that  fond  essay 
To  cheer  and  cherish  the  poor  fellow,  qiute 

Recall'd  his  ' wilder 'd  sense  from  where  astray 
It  linger'd  by  the  Lee.     His  eye  was  bright 

One  conscious  moment,  ere  the  setting  ray 

Of  life  was  quench'd  by  death's  succeeding  night. 

Katrine!  >> no  more  distinctly  he  express'd, 

But  love's  last  kiss  interpreted  the  rest. 


The  girl  was  sitting  with  the  glassy  stare 
Of  death  fii'd  fast  upon  her  dear  dead  lover, 

And  her  dishevell'd  and  entangled  hair 
His  stony  features  still  was  hanging  over, 

As  rain-bematted  willows  fringe  with  eare 
The  marble,  that  their  leaves  thus  fail  to  cover. 

The  trace  of  tears  was  seen  on  either  cheek , 

Which,  coursing  oft,  had  left  a  smeary  streak. 


Ye  last  beheld  her  as  ye  see  her  now, 
Bent  o'er  the  soldier  on  her  rocky  seat, 

Who  then  kiss'd  back  her  kiss  of  wordless  woe, 
The  heart's  bequest  before  it  ceas'd  to  beat. 

Her  Phelim  dead  and  gone,  to  die  and  go 
Was  all  she  wish'd,  and,  ere  she  could  repeat 

The  once-call'd  name  of  one,  who  answer'd  not, 

That  heart  gave  way,  and  broke  upon  the  spot. 


«  And,  picking  up  a  (hollow)  crab,  as  he  did, 
«  Conceiv'd  himself  a  happy  man — like  Seged.  » 

( The  reader,  perhaps ,  will  tolerate ,  for  the  sake  of  their  succinctness ,  the  subjoined  verses,  which 
condense  the  charming  little  story  in  '  The  Rambler.'  A  part  of  the  unpublished  drama  of  «  The  Cicl, » 
alluded  to  above,  they  were  written  as  far  back  as  1829.) 

Diego.— My  son!  Man's  life,  alternate  light  and  shade, 
With  change  is  chequer'd.     His  best  interval 
Of  happiness,  like  the  Ethiop  king's,  is  but 
A  ten-days'  history  of  hopes  and  fears. — 
Hath  he  a  choice  of  pleasures?  the  first  sunset 
Doth  find  him  still  in  doubt  on  which  to  fix. 
Ere  yet  the  flatterers  of  his  would-be  joy 
Can  teach  their  lips  the  studi'd,  look'd-for  smile, 
The  second  day  is  gone.     Some  goblin  dream 
Doth  cast  its  shapeless  shadow  o'er  the  third. 
The  fourth  is  vigour,  fancy,  frolic ,  mirth , 
Till  lo !  a  serpent  hisses  from  the  flow'rs , 
And  puts  his  crew  of  laughers  to  the  rout. 
Would  he  their  mercenary  glee  bribe  back 
With  pearly  prizes  and  with  gifts  of  gold, 
Dissatisfaction  murmurs  at  the  fifth. 
The  promise  of  the  sixth  base  Envy  mars. 
Unask'd  Remembrance  waits  upon  the  sev'nth. 
Pale  Sickness  in  the  bosom  of  his  home 
Dawns  on  the  eighth.    The  ninth  is  blank  with  Death : 
And  sable  Sorrow  weeps  away  the  tenth. — 
What  matters  who  the  circling  health  may  pledge, 
That ,  wine-buoy'd ,  on  the  rosy  surface  floats , 
Since ,  at  the  very  banquet  of  a  king , 
The  solemn  imp  of  Disappointment  comes, 
And  spits  within  the  bowl? — Or  old  or  young, 
It  is  our  weakness  o'er  some  dream  of  earth 
Too  long  to  linger,  and  still  idly  turn 
To  sunlike  Hope,  that,  near  us  seeming,  drops 
Behind  the  distant  verge  of  human  tears. — 


I  know  the  pagan's  graceful  creed  is  gone  ; 

T  know  his  gods  are  known  to  be  a  dream  ; 
I  know  the  young  and  rosy-finger'd  Mora 

Is  known  no  more  to  yoke  her  airy  team  ; 
I  know  Apollo's  golden  locks  unshorn 

But  wave  and  glitter  in  the  poet's  theme  ; 
1  know  on  earth  that  none  believe  The  Hours 
A  dancing  chorus  ,  filletted  with  flowers  ; 


1  know  the  court  of  transitory  Jove 
Hath  left  the  heights  of  Ida  ,  and  for  aye  ; — 

That  Juno  ,  Pallas  ,  and  The  Queen  of  Love  , 
And  Mars  ,  and  Maia's  son  have  pass'd  away ; — 

That  Hebe  now ,  nor  Ganymede  above  , 
The  nectar  pours  ,  nor  Mulciber ,  to  stay 

The  anger  of  the  cloud-compelling  King  , 

With  vying  grace  limps  round  the  laughing  ring ; — ■ 


I  know  that  Neptune's  nothing  but  a  name  , 
Like  Aniphitrite  in  her  coral  car  ; — 

That  Tritou's  trump ,  as  loud  as  that  of  Fame  , 
Awakes  no  echoes  in  the  rocks  afar; — 

That  Nereus  now  ne'er  vanishes  in  flame  , 
As  many-shap'd  as  man's  devices  are ; — 

That  Proteus  tends  his  ocean-herd  no  more , 

Or  drives  his  motley  monsters  to  the  shore; — 


I  know  that  in  the  wood  no  Dryad  dwells  , 
No  Oread  flees  and  flashes  on  the  mount ; — 

I  know ,  that  each  unstori'd  water  wells  , 
Unconscious  of  a  Naiad  ,  from  its  fount ; 

I  know  that  ev'ry  tale  ,  that  Ovid  tells  , 
In  modern  credence  is  of  no  account ; — 

That  Faun  doth  peep ,  nor  Sat)  r  look  askance  , 

Where  rivers  run  ,  as  nymphless  as  the  Ranee  ; — 


I  know  the  temples  are  not  shut  alone  , 
That  shrin'd  delusion  in  a  thousand  walls  , 

But  batter'd  by  the  Hun  and  Vandal  down  , 
And  Time  ,  too  ,  levell'd  where  the  adder  crawls 

And  breeds  amid  the  solitary  stone  , 

— The  wasting  relic  of  those  holy  halls — 
-Goth,  Age,  and  Reason  in  their  turns,  1   know, 

Laid  lane  and  faith  in  ruins  urn"  ago  ! — 


Diana  is  extinct ; — her  worship  now 

As  lifeless  as  the  fire  her  virgins  fed  ; — 
Her  ministers  are  gone  ! — yet  what  art  thou  , 

Thou  of  the  Grecian  bust  and  Grecian  head, 
The  Grecian  features  and  the  Grecian  brow , 
— The  old  regard  of  Greece  ,  where  ,  passion  dead  , 
A  consecrated  cahn  serenely  glows  , 
And  finely  breathes  in  classical  repose  ? 


No  priestess  ;  yet ,  to  see  thee  as  thou  art , 
How  vestal  is  thy  mien !  how  chastely  young 

Thy  visage  is  ! — the  mirror  of  thy  heart — 
As  pure  a  face  as  Sappho  ever  sung  ! 

Thy  bowlike  chiseU'd  lips  ,  that ,  just  apart  , 
Resemble  those  whereon  Leander  hung 

His  gaze  in  rapture  ,  as  he  landed  stood  , 

And  quite  forgot  the  dangers  of  the  flood  ; — ■ 


The  drooping  lids  ,  that  shade  thy  modest  eyes  , 
Whose  fringing  lashes  kiss  thy  marble  cheek 

At  tender  tunes  7  as  when  the  zephyr  sighs 
And  bows  the  waterflags  ,  that  softly  streak 

The  azure  of  the  stream  ,  till  io  !  they  rise 

To  woo  the  wave  again  ; — the  tones  ,  that  speak 

A  language  ,  that  the  ear  doth  seem  to  hear , 

As  utter'd  by  thy  look  ,  (so  rills  appear 


A  voice  to  have,  though  silent  they  may  run.) 
— Yes  ,  young  Duchatel !  thou  indeed  art  fair, 
As  even  thou  shouldst  be  ;  but ,  lovely  one  ! 

Observe  thy  beauty's  character,  nor  dare 
From  self-sufficing  nature  to  be  won. 

Let  pearl  nor  diamond  glitter  in  thy  hair  ; 
I\or  meet  the  full,  assembly's  longing  sight 
In  robe  of  aught  but  pure  and  classic  white. — 


SJ©aS3, 


Stanza  I. — The  Hours  were  commonly  represented  as  dancing  in  a  ring. 

—  II. — Mercury — elastic  Mercury — the  son- of  May!  What  an  allegory! 

Mulciber  or  Vulcan,  the  son  of  Jupiter  and  Juno,  to  put  an  end  to  the  unseemly  bickering 
between  his  parents,  and  to  restore  harmony  in  Heaven,  is  described  by  Homer  as  enacting 
the  part  of  cupbearer,  to  the  huge  delight  of  the  assembled  deities,  who  hailed  his  performance 
with  «  quenchless  laughter.  »  ( What  a  jolly  set  of  fellows  they  were  ! ) 

—  111. — Nereus  and  Proteus  were  both  gifted  with  the  power  of  changing  their  shape,  which, 

when  called  upon  to  exercise  their  other  power  of  prophecy,  they  wielded  in  a  way  exceedingly 
unpleasant  to  their  questioners.     Proteus,  moreover,  was  keeper  of  the  marine  menagerie. 

—  IV. — Hero ,  to  woo  whom  Leandcr  was  iu  the  habit  of  swimming  the  Hellespont,  was  priestess 

of  Venus  at  Sestus. 


f&; 


Fair  creature  of  fair  name  and  fairer  face  ! 

Sweet  type  of  thy  sweet  synonym ,  the  rose ! 
The  fine  unfolding  of  whose  modest  grace 

With  each  improving  day  is  such  as  glows 
I'  the  queen  of  flowers  in  some  secluded  place  , 

Where,  seen  but  by  the  few,  like  thee  she  Woavs, 
Like  thee  to  be  transplanted,  and  to  bloom, 
Th'  unconscious  marvel  of  a  gayer  home  : 


What,  ta'en  from  us  already!  mov'd  away 

So  quiekly  from  the  soil',  that  long'dJ  to  hold  thee! 

Thy  beauty's  breath  the  perfume  of  a  day, 

Love  fear'd  to  tell  thee  (what  lie  sure  had  told  thee 

Collecting  courage  from  thy  further  stay) 
The  joy  it  was  to  sit  and :  to  behold  thee , 

And  feelthy  charms  (the  pride  of  the  parterre) 

Exhale  their  fragrance  on  the  happy  air! 


To  sit  indeed  beside  thee  ,  and  to  mark 
Thy  classic  features'  classical  contour  ; — 

Thy  nymph-like  head ; — thine  eyes  serenely  dark  ; — 
Thy  spotless  mind  in  lineaments  as  pure ; — 

Thy  perfect  lips ,  melodious  as  the  lark  , 

That ,  hymning  to  the  morn  ,  doth  singing  soar  ;- 

Thy  kindling  smile  ,  that  spreads  by  bright  degrees . 

Like  young  Apollo  ,  lighting  up  the  seas  ! 


And  is  it  thou  must  quit  the  quiet  vale, 

Where  'winds  the  Ranee  its  shelving  banks  between 

And  woods ,  that  hide  the  bashful  nightingale  , 
Speak  the  soft  tongue  ,  that  answers  to  the  scene  , 

The  language  of  the  birds , — the  cooing  tale 
The  ringdove  tells  his  mate  ,  as  ,  in  the  green 

And  nested  wilderness  of  tree  and  bush  , 

She  plies  her  patient  duties  with  the  thrush ; — 


The  misty  summer-dawn  ; — the  rising  sun  ; — 
The  gleaming  crag  ; — the  lullaby  of  noon  , 

When  e'en  the  aspen  for  a  while  is  won 
To  slumber  by  the  sleep-inducing  tune 

Of  rUls  ,  that  murmur  by ; — when  day  is  done  , 
Rich  twilight  and  the  large  but  rayless  moon , 

As  if  King  Sol , — his  halo  pleas'd  to  doff , — 

In  purple  mov'd  ,  although  his  crown  be  off ; — 


The  breathing  sounds  the  soul  at  eve  can  hear, 
That  enter  by  the  eye  ; — the  solemn  strain 

Of  autumn  ,  when  the  leaves  are  falling  near, 
And  lightly  float ,  and  quiver  to  the  plain  ; — 

Or,  it  may  be ,  the  burden  of  some  dear 
Old  ballad  ,  heard  in  childhood  ,  which  again 

Will  simply  back  that  simple  era  bring , 

And  touch  the  heart ,  like  daisies  in  the  spring  ;- 


The  silent  night ,  when  ,  sleeping  in  the  clew , 

As  fast  as  yonder  lilies  on  the  wave  , 
The  landscape  is  a-dream  ,  and ,  'neath  the  blue 

Of  Heav'n,  as  fair,  as  when  Diana  gave 
Her  love  to  one,  *  the  gift  that  never  knew, 

Nor  felt  his  lips  her  raining  kisses  lave; — 
The  mirror' d  marge ; — the  river  bright  and  calm , 
That  shines  like  beauty,  and  that  soothes  like  balm;- 


The  wakeful  lark  ,  that  liveth  in  the  Avoods  , 

And  sings  when  all  is  hush'd,  whose  grateful  pleasure 

"S  to  pipe  the  praise  of  sylvan  solitudes 

To  One  ,  that  listens  to  the  liquid  measure  , 

And  owns  it  for  His  child's  , — for  all  are  God*s 
Great  family,  and  he  hath  will  and  leisure 

From  choral  angels"harmonies  to  hark 

Down  to  the  little  anthem  of  the  lark. 

•  The  shepherd  Endymion ,  who  craved  of  Jupiter,  that  he  might  always  be  young,  and  sleep  as 
much  as  he  would. 


—  8  — 

Then  must  thou  leave — not  lis ,  for  we  are  naught , — 

The  stilly  banks  of  yon  romantic  river, 
That  form  a  scene ,  with  kindred  quiet  fraught , 

Should  surely  win  thee  from  the  world  for  ever? 
Thyself  belie  not,  since  thy  look  hath  taught, 

That ,  gentle  as  the  hind's ,  thy  nature  never 
Should  quit  the  shade ,  but  with  its  charms  enhance 
The  soft,  sweet  vale  of  some  congenial  Ranee. 

Dinan.  1845. 


DINAN. — TYP.  DE  J.-fe.   HUART.— 1845. 


EXTRACT  OF  A  LETTER  FROM  THE  FAR  WEST  OF  FRANCE ,  0.\  RECEH  EVE.US. 


THE    BAS-BKETOXS. 


uQuimper,  March  6,  4848. 

«The  peasantry— stultified,  as  they  are,  with  bigotry  and  brandy,  with  cider  and 
with  dirt, — will  fail  to  get  a  glimpse  of  what  is  up  for  many  months  to  come,  and,  even 
then ,  will  only  look  upon  it  as  an  idle  innovation  the  more.  Jews  are  less  separate , 
—Chinese  are  less  jealous ,— than  these  isolated  aborigines , — these  dull  adorers  of  the 
statu  quo.  With  as  much  exultation,  as  their  gravity  is  capable  of,  they  would  hail  a 
change,  which  would  free  them  altogether  of  France;  but,  short  of  such  a  ridding  mu- 
tation, they  would  deem  themselves  oxen  indeed  to  care  about  the  fashion  of  the  yoke. 
What  have  they  to  do  with  new-fangled  forms  of  government , — they,  that  go  back  to 
the  polity  of  the  Druids?  To  them  a  Napoleon, — a  Louis  XVIII,—  a  Louis-Philippe,— a 
Republic , — are  things  to  be  seen  with  the  same  indifferent  eyes.  They  would  respect 
Brennus.  They  will  not,  where  avoidable,  learn  the  language  of  their  rulers.  The  men, 
after  their  seven  years'  enforced  service ,  as  soldiers  or  as  sailors ,  come  home ,  resume 
their  time-out-of-mind  costume,  let  their  beloved  hair  grow  wildly  to  their  waists  again, 
and  forget,  as  fast  as  they  can ,  how  to  say  '  bon-jour.'  In  other  words,  they  wish  to 
be  let  alone,  and  to  have  their  sombre  and  depressing  skies,  their  magnificently  sad 
country,  their  mountains,  their  valleys,  their  wolvy  woods,  their  immeasureable  moors 
of  furze  and  fern,  their  stretching  marshes,  the  solitude  of  their  high  roads,  the  dark- 
ness visible  of  their  glenny  lanes,  the  ocean-sound  of  their  wind-replying  pines,  their 
piebald  cattle,  their  sooty  flocks,  their  pigs,  their  prejudices,  and,  above  all,  their 
immemorial  customs  to  themselves.  What  is  1848  to  them'?  nothing.  But  will  they 
laugh  at  its  vagaries?  no.  The  Bas-Bretons  never  laugh.  You  might  as  well  expect  a 
cachinnation  from  a  cypress,— a  haw-haw  from  a  yew.    Their  forests  of  fir  are  less 


triste  than  they.  There  is  no  fun  in  them.  They  are  as  jokeless  as  junipers.  Their  very 
mirth  is  melancholy.  Their  holidays,  par  excellence,  have  a  woe-begone  appearance, 
and  hang  the  head  like  lilies  of  the  vale.  Their  «  Pardons »  are  ' sickli'd  o'er  with  the 
pale  cast  of  thought' :  their  seasons  of  Absolution  are  dashed  with  the  hue  of  grief.  The 
children,  at  roulette  for  sugar-plums,  eye  the  little  ball,  as  so  many  little  Romans  may 
have  done  a  niger  lapillus;  and  they  raffle  for  cakes,  as  if  they  were  casting  lots,  which 
should  be  flogged  first.  The  men,  if  possible,  are  sadder  still,  and  stare  at  Punchinello, 
as  if  he  were  an  importation  from  below,  and  at  the  fantoccini  of  a  showman  ,  as  they 
would  at  the  imps  of  the  Evil  One.  With  folded  arms,  they  walk  about,  for  hours 
together,  in  silent  groups,  and  wind  up  their  curious  day  of  pleasure  by  wrestling  in  a 
silent  ring,  as  if  they  had  Great  Heart  and  Apollyon  in  their  spiritual  sight.  Mynheer 
Van  Hudson  and  his  crew,  at  their  ghostly  game  of  skittles  in  Sleepy  Hollow,  were  as 
merry,  in  comparison  with  them,  as  the  actors  of  an  undertaker,  who  have  just 
'performed  a  funeral.'  They  are  indeed  a  lugubrious  race,  knocking  down  their 
ninepins  with  the  sigh  of  Heraclitus,  and  getting  drunk  with  an  expression  of 
anguish  about  the  mouth.  In  hereditary  breeches,  transmitted  petticoats,  and  old 
ancestral  shoes,  they  dance  their  national  «  gavotte  au  bignon,»  (a  large  stride 
and  a  little  skip,  to  the  sound  of  the  bagpipes,)  two  hundred  in  a  string,  and 
not  a  smile  among  them  all.  They  remind  ye  of  Holbein  and  his  pictures.  They 
go  to  market ,  as  if  they  were  going  to  jail ;  to  fair,  as  if  they  were  going  to  be. 
tried  for  their  lives ;  and  to  be  married ,  as  if  they  were  going  to  be  guillotined. 
Their  matches  are  brought  about  by  that  sedentary  sorrow,  a  tailor,  aud  their 
way  of  wooing  fits  them  to  a  t.  They  intercrook  their  little  fingers,  sidle  along, 
gaze  in  each  other's  eyes,  and  say  nothing.  Perhaps  they  have  nothing  to  say. 
The  parents  having  duly  met,  and  the  various  preliminaries  being  duly  settled, 
a  reciprocity  of  visits  takes  place ,  when  the  favored  swain ,  raising  a  cup  of  wine 
to  his  lips,  pledges  his  fiancee  with  the  resigned  air  of  Socrates  drinking  off  the 
hemlock,  and  she,  as  gay  as  her  betrothed,  responds  like  Hosamunda  with  the  poisoned 
bowl.  And  then ,  according  to  form  ,  leading  her  promesso  sposo  upstairs ,  she  shows 
him  with  a  smile,  that  savours  of  the  churchyard,  her  wardrobe  and  the  linen  she 
shall  bring  him;  speaks  of  her  wedding-garments,  as  if  they  were  garments  of  the  grave; 
turns  over  a  table-cloth,  as  if  the  funereal  dinner  already  flashed  upon  her  mind; 
points  to  a  pillow-case ,  as  if  she  were  thinking  of  the  last  bolster  of  her  beloved ;  and 
opens  a  pair  of  sheets,  as  much  as  to  say,  uHow  well  they  will  do  jor  winding  ones'.n 
In  a  stated  chaunt ,  by  way  of  inspiriting  the  wife  elect,  and  of  paying  a  pretty  compli- 
ment to  the  future  son-in-law,  her  mother  tells  her,  that  she  looks  upon  her  as  a  lamb 
going  to  the  slaughter;  so  that,  as  a  sequitur,  the  epithalamium  of  the  bride  is  as 
cheerful  as  a  chapter  in  Jeremiah ,  and  childbed  and  children  are  visioned  in  verses  as 
lively  as  those  of  Malachi.  No  wonder,  that  the  babies  never  crow  :  I  marvel,  in  such 
a  country,  that  the  cocks  do.     Yes,  in  sober  sooth,  they  are  an  extraordinary  people, 


—  as  solemn  as  ourang-outangs,— as  serious  as  chimpanzees,— and  do  and  suffer  the 
most  risible  things  in  the  world  with  the  most  imperturbable  face.  At  a  wedding  at 
Quimper,  (where,  on  such  occasions,  they  dance  in  the  open  street,  and  that,  too,  in 
dresses, — when  the  parties  are  wealthy, —worth  from  600  to  1000  francs,  id  est,  from 
24  to  40  liv.  sterling,)  I  witnessed  a  precocious  bibber,  who,  on  being  rejected  by  the 
rest  on  account  of  his  unsteady  step,  consoled  himself  with-a  pas-de-seul ,  to  the  evident 
interruption  of  the  saltatory  chain,  which,  every  instant,  he  threatened  to  breakthrough. 
As  his  figure  was  a  capriccio,  he  executed  it  to  a.  fantasia  of  his  own, — the  noiseless 
efflation  of  a  pair  of  clumsy  lips,  the  counterpart  of  those  of  the  inimitable  Liston. 
— The  clown,  in  fact,  greatly  resembled  that  chubby-cheeked  comedian,  when,  as  in 
Lubin  Log,  he  chose  to  be  quite  a  fool.  Perfectly  unabashed  by  the  untoward  shoves 
of  the  terpsichoral  club ,  who  persisted  in  black-balling  him  over  and  over  again ,  and 
by  the  roaring  laughter  of  the  many  standers-by,  the  hobbydehoy  kept  whistling  and 
reeling  and  tripping  and  tumbling  on, — a  rich  illustration  of  the  circumbendibus.  Six 
times  did  he  measure  his  lubberly  length  on  La  Terre  au  Due,  and  six  times,  (heaven 
knows  how,)  did  he  help  himself  up  again,  without,  however,  ceasing,  for  a  single 
moment,  the  noiseless  efflation  aforesaid.  A  knot  of  Parisians,  who  assisted  at  the 
spectacle,  never,  I  will  engage,  shed  more  abundant  tears  at  «ie  medecin  malgrc  lui,» 
«  L'amour  medecin,  »  or  «  Le  malade  imaginairen  of  Moliere.  As  to  myself,  I  thought 
1  should  have  died  of  the  stitch.  At  last,  poor  fellow,  down  he  came  crack,  — his 
scull  upon  a  stone,— and  was  carried  off  insensible.  And  what  was  the  effect  upon 
his  countryfolk  the  while?  none  at  all.  At  each  importunate  attempt,  which  he  made 
to  join  hands,  they  repulsed  him  with  the  same  staid  air,  with  which  the  athletic 
quaker  (forbidden  by  the  tenets  of  his  pacific  creed  to  wage  warfare,  )  seized  the 
boarding  French  captain  in  his  arms,  and,  saying  to  him,  as  he  lifted  him  over 
the  side  of  the  vessel,  «  Friend,  thou  hast  no  business  here,»  dropped  him  into  the 
sea.  Even  the  youngest  couple  of  the  chain— a  boy  and  girl  of  13  and  14  years  of 
age -betrayed  not  the  symptom  of  a  smirk,  but  strode  and  skipped  away  as  gravely 
as  the  rest.  The  musicians,  be  it  said, — who,  with  their  bag-pipes,  piped  to  the 
hereditary  bag-breeches,  the  transmitted  tinselled  petticoats,  and  the  old  ancestral 
hugely-buckled  shoes, — were  perched,  high  and  dry,  upon  a  couple  of  crazy  chairs, 
which  in  turn  were  perched  upon  a  couple  of  unsteady  cider-casks,  and,  blowing  their 
faces  to  a  point,  played  to  the  sprightly  string  as  fiercely  as  the  puffing  devil,  who 
squeaked  to  the  witches  by  Alloway  Kirk,  to  Tarn  o'  Shanter  and  his  mare.  Again. 
You  may  see  (as  Mrs  Trollope's  son  did  at  Corlay  Fair,)  a  tipsy  octogenarian  sit 
himself  down  in  a  frying-pan  of  fizzing  sausages,  and  the  owner  of  them,  with  a 
fork  like  a  trident,  vigorously  attacking  the  intrusive  part  of  his  person,  but  on  neither 
visage,  his  nor  hers,  will  you  detect  the  slightest  variation  of  muscle  —  Or  (not  so  very 
funny  though,)  you  may  witness  (as  Mr  Trollope  did  at  the  same  Fair)  a  powerful 
horse,  lashing  out  his  heels,  strike  a  peasant  full  on  the  ribs,  and  the  latter,  after 


lying  a  moment  on  the  ground,  rise  and  walk  away,  unaided  and  unpitied,  with  «  no 
« good-morn  ne  no  salueing,»  merely  putting  his  hand  to  his  side,  to  feel  for  his 
— tobacco-pipe  !  They  are  perfectly  unimpressionable,— impassive  quite,— ces  paysans 
de  la  Basse-Bretagne;—&s  collected,  though  from  no  moral  cause,  as  an  Indian  chief 
or  a  European  diplomatist, — Ohibo  or  Prince  Metternich,  Outaliski  or  Lord  Aberdeen. 
The  expression  of  the  poet, 

«  To  each  his  suff'rings  :  all  are  men , 

«  Condemn'd  alike  to  groan, 
k  The  tender  for  another's  pain, 

«  Th'  unfeeling  for  his  own ,  » 

in  no  way  applies  to  these  hard ,  these  indurated  savages.  With  the  hide  of  a  rhino- 
ceros and  the  heart  of  a  stoic ,  they  are  hurt-proof  and  tear-proof.  They  cry,  to  be 
sure,  when  they  draw  a  bad  number  at  the  conscription,  and  their  hair  must  be  cut  off; 
and  musket-balls,  it  would  appear,  have  been  sometimes  known  to  perforate  their  skin, 
but,  properly  speaking,  they  have  no  feeling,  no  sympathy.  They  are  touchable  through 
the  pocket  alone.  An  ailing  cow  affects  them,  and  a  sick  pig.  They  have  no  sensibility 
but  for  sous,  which ,  when  scraped  together  to  the  amount  of  a  hundred ,  they  change 
for  a  five-franc  piece ,— to  bury  it.  Will  it  be  believed ,  that  they  have  their  poetry, 
— their  own  simple  and  affecting  poetry,  —  and  that  many  of  their  traditional  customs 
are  strongly  tinged  with  it?  Their  country,  too,  is  all  poetry,  but  what  is  the  Bas- 
Breton  himself?  ask  the  man  in  the  bag-breeches.  Where  is  the  civilization  of  song 
— the  aemqllfi  mores  nee  sinit  esse  feros»  of  the  muse?  ask  his  hut.  What  was  the 
amatory  medium  of  the  tailor  for?  ask  his  wife,  who,— neglected  Joan  as  she  is, — should 
she,  in  returning  from  market,  fall  from  behind  her  Darby  into  the  road,  what  does  he 
do?  if  of  a  milky  nature,  he  stops  his  horse ,  turns  round  ,  and  looks  at  her ;  but,  nine 
times  out  of  ten,  he  shuffles  on  home,  with  his  shaggy  steed,  with  far  more  unconcern, 
than  if  he  had  cracked  an  old  crupper.  Is  she  seized  with  the  pains  of  labour,  with 
the  cholic,  or  the  cholera?  he  runs,  of  course,  for  the  doctor,  you  will  say.  Pardonnez- 
moi;  he  does  no  such  thing.  What  then?  why,  he  pulls  out  his  pipe,  fills  it,  lights  it, 
gives  a  long  whiff,  and  says  lymatinln  In  short,  he  is,  I  fear,  in  a  conjugal  point 
of  view,  not  many  shades  better  than  the  bush-ranger,  who,  having  been  taken,  tried , 
convicted,  and  cast  for  death  for  some  recent  enormity,  confessed,  on  the  eve  of  exe- 
cution, to  the  murder  of  four  successive  wives.  The  cold-blooded  villain,  it  appeared, 
had  reduced  his  Blue-Beardism  to  a  system.  His  method  was  this  :  I"  He  made  the 
poor  creature  most  decidedly  drunk;  11°  He  placed  her  on  the  floor;  IIIo  He  put  the 
bolster  ou  her  face;  IV0  He  sat  upon  her;  V°  He  smoked  till  she  was  dead.— He 
complained  of  the  last  as  a  long-winded ,  expensive  affair,  which  took  him  two  hours , 
and  cost  him  three  pipes. 
But  to  return  to  politics.    Something  of  this  indifference,  as  I  stated  in  the  early 


part  of  my  letter,  may  be  found  in  the  respectables.  In  no  other  town  of  the  kingdom , 
— I  beg  pardon,  of  the  Republic,— can  recent  events  have  had  so  small  an  effect. 
In  truth,  we  are,  by  no  means',  an  excitable  set.  Where  the  Parisian  sweats  blood, 
the  Quimperois  has  not  the  slightest  perspiration  on  his  skin.  His  strongest 
exudation  is  a  lily-dew,  but,  being  essentially  unpoetical,  he  melts  not  at  Lamartine. 
He  takes  things  coolly,— is  hydropathic,  in  fact,  barring  the  hot  water,  which  he  loves 
not  to  be  in.  He  is  clearly  for  the  'cold  without'  and  damp  sheets.  Like  the  good 
folks  of  Plymouth ,  after  three  days  of  fine  weather,  he  shrugs  himself,  as  if  he  had  a 
Ilea ,  and  cries  out ,  «  How  dry  and  uncomfortable  it  is !  I  wish  it  would  rain ! »  And 
Providence,  always  kind,  has  blessed  him  with  a  finger  of  the  sea, — an  *  imbriferous 
river, — at  the  high  tides  of  which  it  never  mizzles  but  it  rains,  and,  at  the  spring, 
never  rains  but  it  pours.  The  clouds  collect,  at  the  grande  marie,  like  custom-house 
officers  on  a  quai;  and  Jupiter  Pluvius  is  as  sure  to  be  there  as  a  tide-waiter  in  Thames 
Street.  You  remember  the  famous  lion  of  Dr  Prolix,  which,  nevery  time  lie  wagged 
k  his  tail,  did  bite  the  keeper's  head  off.  »  Buonaparte  talked  of  his  star,  but  we  have 
a  constellation, — a  sign  of  the  zodiac  to  ourselves,  —  «The  man,  that  holds  the  watering- 
n pot, yi — Aquarius.  We  of  the  far  west, —  we  of  the  Finistere, —  have  our  County 
Cornwall  as  well  as  you,  and  are  soaked  to  our  soul's  content,  in  the  same  geographical 
degree.  The  latitude  of  Quimper  is  that  of  Penzance, — and  the  geese  know  it.  f  Like 
Sir  Humphrey  Davy,  we  are  at  home  in  the  wet,  and,  tiptoe  as  the  ducks,  are,  at  times, 
as  comical  as  they.  The  Republic  was  proclaimed  here ,  to  beat  of  drum,  in  a  sousing- 
shower,  by  the  crier  of  the  town,  upon  whose  devoted  head,  to  make  matters  still  more 
moist,  a  chamber-maid,  from  a  third  story,  emptied  her  slops.  Poor  Rub-a-dub,  shaking 
his  dripping  ringlets,  looked  up  with  a  good-natured  grin,  hugging  himself,  no  doubt, 
that  the  pail  had'nt  come  too. — Rut ,  as  you  see,  my  paper  is  out ;  so ,  for  the  present , 
adieu Ever,  my  dear  boy, 

Your  affectionate  father, 

STEPHEN  PRENTIS. 


*  «  J  think )»  ( said  the  well-acclimatised  son  of  our  late  English  clergyman  at  Quimper,  as  I  ran  up 
my  umbrella  against  another  giboulce  de  pluie,)  «/  think  the  fine  weather's  going.  »  It  had  then 
been  raining  every  day  for  a  fortnight. 

f  The  celebrated  chemist  was  born  at  Penzance ,  where ,  as  a  child ,  he  used ,  with  piscatorial  pa 
tience,  to  flsh  in  the — gutters! 


TKH  OIM§l!MRIi©TII@M  ®F  41  MIME,  AS  BT  WAS  FILT  AT 


My  dear  Henry,  30,b  June,  1848. 

As  on  a  former  occasion,  I  proceed  to  give  you  the  details  of  how  we  Provincials 
have  been  affected  by  the  recent  awful  rising  in  Paris.  The  brief  and  hurried  mention, 
which  I  sent  you ,  two  days  back  ,  via  Jersey,  of  the  murderous  conflict  having  ceased 
at  2,  p.m.  on  Monday,  26th  inst.  and  of  our  naturally  great  agitation  and  anxiety 
during  the  fratricidal  struggle,  you  will,  perhaps,  already  have  received.  In  my 
various  letters  to  England,  for  many  weeks  past,  our  local  bulletin  has  been  still  the 
same,  viz.  «  All  quiet,  no  confidence.  »  The  900  talked,  and  the  900  legislated  . 
but  credit  was  none  the  better,  and  commerce  was  all  the  worse.  Indeed ,  how  could 
either  be  expected  to  improve ,  when  every  post  was  bringing  word  of  a  fresh  con- 
spiracy, with  no  moral  courage  to  meet  it  fittingly?  The  judges  were  more  frightened 
at  Vincennes,  than  the  prisoners,  whom  their  judgment,  however  just,  placed  there. 
L'Assemblee  Rationale  was  glaringly  afraid ,  first  of  Blanqui  and  of  Barbes ,  then  of 
Louis  Blanc,  then  of  Louis  Buonaparte.  Forgetting  ;Esop,—  that  familiar  Solomon! 
—they  went  gingerly  to  work  with  the  stinging-nettles,  handling  them  gently,  like 
the  boy  in  the  fable,  instead  of  manfully,  as  they  ought.  Meanwhile, — (the  moon- 
promisers,  of  course,  in  no  condition  to  redeem  their  pledge,) — the  eruption,  par 
excellence,  was  coming  on ,  preceded  by  the  customary  je  ne  sais  quoi  of  dullness  and 
of  dread.  Several  individuals  here  have  experienced  a  vague  feeling  of  apprehension, 
and  complained  of  a  weight  upon  the  spirits.  The  skies ,  too ,  as  in  February  last , 
have  been  emblematically  black ,  and  the  weather  emblematically  bad  :  a  clearing^up 
shower  in  Paris  was  almost  prayed  for,  to  set  us  right  again.  Who  of  us,  however, 
could  have  wished  or  looked  for  a  torrent  of  crimson  rain! — The  political  clouds, 
though,  were  charged  with  the  ensanguined  cataract,  and  the  gutters  of  the  Capital , 
alas!  were  ready  to  run  with  human  blood. — The  Bevolution  of  February!  call  it, 
rather,  the  Bevolution  of  Frankenstein!— that  mischievous  monster,— a  compound  of 


monkey,  man,  and  tiger,— rewarding  his  appalled  inventor  with  what?  an  unmanage- 
able nondescript  of  cruelty  and  crime!  Is  the  expression  too  strong?  read  the  Journals, 
and  answer  yes,  if  you  can.  Why,  the  Massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew  itself  seems  to 
have  been  of  a  paler  dye  than  this  incarnadine  sin,— this  stabbing,  poisoning, 
hanging,  hacking,  sawing,  disembowelling  insurrection  of  June,  1848!  The  ima- 
gination shudders  at  such  ferocious  flendism,  and  refuses  to  keep  pace  with  it.  But 
my  object  in  writing  to  you  is  to  give  you  the  details  of  what  has  been  felt,  and 
what  has  been  done,  in  a  small  provincial  town ,  at  100  leagues  from  the  metropolis. 
They  will ,  I  think ,  interest  you ,  if  only  from  their  serving  as  a  specimen  of  the  rest. 
«  Ex  uno  disce  omnes.»  The  spirit  has  been  uniformly  patriotic,  and  patriotically 
uniform.  The  question  was  no  longer  of  a  Republic ,  of  a  Regency,  of  Henri  V,  of  this 
individious  Buonaparte  or  of  that,  but  of  France,  of  Order,  of  Humanity,  in  opposition 
to  Parricide,  to  Anarchy,  to  unnatural  and  astounding  slaughter,  and  infernal  triumph 
over  the  dying  and  the  dead.  This  was  the  question;  and  men,  of  every  political  cast, 
vied  to  enrol  themselves,  with  a  common  accord,  against  the  common  enemies  of 
their  country  and  their  kind.  The  shock  of  indignation  was  universal,  and  distance 
could  not  weaken  it;  as  a  consequence,  the  union  of  aid  was  universal  too,  and 
electrically  so, — all  in  a  moment,  and  that  moment  the  «  epea  pteroenta  » — the 
n  flying  words  »  of  the  Telegraph. 

The  «  res  gestae »  of  Dinan  are  after  this  wise  : 

On  Saturday,  p.m.  the  24lh  inst.  our  Sous-Prefet  received  a  letter  from  his  father, 
dated  L'Assemblee  JSationale,  23d,  stating,  that  the  workmen  were  in  open  insurrection, 
and  that  a  desperate  conflict  had  begun.  On  Sunday,  a.m.  arrived  a  telegraphic 
dispatch,  formally  announcing  the  fact,  and  hoping,  that  the  example  of  the  neigh- 
bouring national  and  moveable  Guards,  pouring  into  Paris,  would  be  followed  by 
the  farther  off.  Shortly  after,  came  a  second,  asking  for  instant  aid  from  the  Provinces. 
The  rappel  was  again  beat,  and  numbers  more  flocked  to  La  Mairie,  to  enlist  themselves 
for  the  metropolis.  Our  little  town  was  all  alive  with  consternation  ,  like  an  ant-hill 
suddenly  disturbed.  La  Place  was  crowded.  About  5.  p.m.  an  express  arrived  from 
Rennes,  with  orders  from  the  General  Commandant,  as  to  a  junction  of  the  St.  Malo 
and  Dinan  volunteers;  the  former  were  to  sail  next  morning  for  Havre  and  Paris,  and 
engaged  to  find  room  in  their  steamer  for  a  number,  not  exceeding  80,  themselves 
amounting  to  160.  At  6.  a.m.  of  the  ensuing  day,  550  were  to  start  from  Rennes.  A 
third  telegraphic  dispatch,  all  this  while,  was  anxiously  expected ,  but,  coming  not, 
created  very  serious  alarm.  The  strategy  of  the  Parisian  mob  was  equally  known  and 
feared  :  street-fighting,  like  the  warfare  of  the  Guerillas,  has  been  reduced  to  a  science. 

Hundreds  waited  round  the  Post-office  until  midnight,  and  then  separated  in  no 
enviable  spirits ;  since  who  could  tell  how  far  the  insurrection  was  organised  ?  Never 
was  alarm  more  justifiable.  Order,  it  was  true,  was  pretty  sure  to  prevail,  but  at  what 
cost,  and  when?  On  Monday,  26th,  I  was  on  La  Place  early,  and  found  it  covered  with 


Drillers  of  all  classes,  awkward-squadding  it  together,  some  of  the  martial  handfuls 
being  officered  by  publicans,  blacksmiths,  etc.,  reminding  me,  even  at  that  uneasy 
moment,  of  Matthews's  «  Trip  to  America, »  where,  at  a  Grand  Review,  the  Major  calls 
out,  with  all  the  nasality  of  a  thoroughbred  Yankee,  «/  say,  Captain,  w/iat's  our 
■«  Colonel  about,  that  he  isn't  here?»  Whereto  the  Captain  as  nasally  replies,  «  Mending 

«  his  breeches,  and  be  d — d  to  him! » The  volunteers,  whom  it  had  been 

found  impossible  to  send  to  St.  Malo  in  time,  were  chosen  with  care  out  of  the  unmar- 
ried and  the  young,  only  one  individual  of  the  same  family  being  allowed  to  go,  which, 
with  preparing  the  suitable  equipment,  naturally  occupied  much  time.  At  2,  p.m.  they 
met  upon  La  Place,  and— a  muster,  etc. ,  of  our  entire  local  force  having  taken  place 
— started  for  Paris,  via  Rennes,  at  3,  accompanied  for  a  league  out  of  town  by  the  said 
local  force,  by  the  Sous-Prefet  and  other  local  authorities,  and  by  numerous  inhabitants. 
La  Marseillaise— that  most  felicitous  composition  ,  eloquent  at  once  of  glory  and  the 
grave— was  played,  and  sung,  and  listened  to ,  with  touching  effect.  It  is  one  thing  to 
hear  it  blared  about  the  streets  by  a  knot  of  stupid  or  besotted  clowns,  and  another  to 
hear  it  struck  up,  in  full  and  feeling  chorus,  and  to  military  tread,  by  what  may  prove 
(to  use  a  happy  expression  of  Byron's)  a  the  unreturning  brave.  »  As  to  myself,  though 
(looking  at  their  100  leagues  from  Paris,  and  the  intervening  population)  a  speedy 
-countermand  of  our  volunteers  might  be  expected  ,  still  had  I  a  very  tough  job  to  keep 
from  tears.  The  strong  excitement  of  so  many  anxious  people,  for  so  many  anxious 
hours,  and  the  continued  non-arrival  of  news  from  the  scene  of  action  were,  doubtless, 
aiding  and  abetting  thereunto.     Female  grief— a  chartered  Niobe — gave  vent  to  its 

emotions,  and  wept  accordingly Back  again  in  the  town,  the  hundreds, 

as  before,  grouped  about  La  Place,  and  speculated  on  the  issue,  their  apprehensions 
wearing  different  suits  of  black.  Folks  in  trouble  are  always  tantalized.  About  6  in 
the  evening ,  an  Estafette  rode  up,  with  an  air  of  immense  importance ,  to  the  Post- 
office  ,  and  called  for  the  Sous-Prefet ,  to  tell  him  precisely  what  he  knew  before !  He 
came  from  the  wrong  side, — from  St.  Brieuc  instead  of  Rennes.  At  nightfall ,  again , 
a  grand  rush  was  made  round  the  corner  to  meet  the  mail,  which  turned  out  to  be  the 
2-horsed  voiture  of  a  commis-voyageur,  driving  as  if  there  was  any  commerce  to  drive 
for !  The  poor  coxcomb  was  hooted ,  recalling  the  absurd  pique  of  the  inhabitants  of  a 
town  in  Italy,  who,  because  an  eclipse  of  the  sun  did  not  occur  at  the  time  anticipated, 
set  up  a  general  hiss.  And  thus— the  crowd  augmenting  more  and  more — things  went 
on  until  '/.-past  10,  when  hope  was  abandoned  quite.  At  11,  I  had  just  shaken  hands 
with  Captain  Johnston  at  la  Porte  St.  Louis ,  and  was  descending  le  Grand  Chemin , 
when  lo !  I  met  a  very  little  man,  puffing  very  hard  up  the  hill,  who  gasped  out  to  me, 
with  a  cod-fish  expression  of  face,  «  Voil — Voil—Voila  La  Malle-Posfe ,  qui  arrive !» 
It  was  the  identical  small  tailor,  who,  you  may  remember,  in  his  other  capacity  of 
fireman ,  when  our  neighbour's  house  was  in  flames,  pumped  away,  with  such  disin- 
terested vigour,  at  the  wardrobe  of  Mr  T.  to  the  obvious  great  advantage  of  the  coats 


and  pantaloons! The  courier,  (who,  in  ajiffey,  had  as  many  gentlemen1 

about  him ,  as  if  he-  had  been  an  informer  in  the  close  vicinity  of  a  horse-pond ,  j 
confirmed  his  welcome  viva  voce  intelligence  of  the  terrific  struggle  having  ceased  on 
that  same  Monday  afternoon,  by  delivering  to  the  Sous-Prefet  the  long-looked-for  third 
Telegraphic  Dispatch,  which  had  thus  been  forwarded  from  Remies!  The  Sous-Prefet, 
amid  a  profound  and  breathless  silence ,  read  it  aloud  from  tire  Post-office  steps.  The 
fight,  fierce  beyond  example,  had  closed  at  2  o'clock  on  that  day,  and  General  Cavaig- 
nac  was  at  the  head  of  affairs  for  the  perilous  nonce !  The  «  Vivos  » — looking  at  them 
as  such  — were  really  very  respectable  shouts;  though,  after  all,  that  skimmiking  cry 
bears  about  the  same  proportion  to  an  English  «  Hurrah ! »  as  a  ncoielette  en papillotesn 
(a  mutton-chop  in  curl-papers ! )  does  to  a  jolly  rump-steak !  The  joy,  however,  was 
sincere .  so  never  mind  the  expression  of  it.  John  Bull  is  a  corpulent  old  gentleman  , 
with  lungs  to  correspond.  FRANCE  WAS  SAVED !  I  communicated  the  intelligence 
to  4  families  of  our  countryfolk ,  to  whom  it  proved  as  grateful ,  as ,  presently  after, 
did  to  Capt.  J.  and  myself  a  bottle  of  the  cool,  clear  Sauterne,  which  you  were  wont 
to  like  so  much.  And  thus  ended  the  many  hours  of  an  excitement  and  an  anxiety, 
which  I  have  certainly  no  wish  to  pass  again.  Not  to  have  taken  a  strong  interest 
in  so  momentous  a  crisis  were  to  have  shown  the  hyper-indifference  of  the  man  in 
Joe  Millar,  who  declined  troubling  himself  about  the  threatened  shipwreck,  because 
«he  ivas  only  a  passenger !»  —  Remains  to  say,  that,  had  the  news  been  adverse ,  the 
rappel  would  have  been  beaten,  the  bells  would  have  been  rung,  and  thousands- upon 
thousands  would  have  marched  straight  to  Paris ,  whose  reign  of  selfish  revolutions ,  I 
suspect,  is  pretty  nearly  come  to  a  close.  The  Departments  and  the  Provinces  are  sick 
and  tired  of  a  turbulent  mother,  who  is  for  ever  in  a  ferment  of  commerce-stopping 
change.  They  are  right.  On  Tuesday,  the  27lh,  our  volunteers  were  given  to  under- 
stand at  Rennes  by  the  General  Commandant,  that  their  further  advance,  in  consequence 
of  the  recent  triumph  of  order,  would  be  quite  unnecessary,  and  that  they  had  better 
return  home,  which  vexed  them  so  much ,  that ,  at  no  small  danger  to  the  temporary 
liberty  of  their  persons ,  they  remonstrated  against  the  seeming  inconsistency  in 
uproarious  terms.  The  scene  appears  to  have  been  a  very  amusing  one.  However, 
the  upshot  was ,  that  they  were  to  march  back  to  Dinan  on  the  following  day;  so  that 
the  same  parties,  who  had  walked  a  league  to  see  them  off,  walked  two  to  see  them 
home.  I  joined  about  500  others.  The  day,  for  a  wonder,  was  beautifully  fine.  We 
started  at  noon ,  and ,  about  2 ,  met  our  young  patriots  near  a  pleasant  wood  ,  on 
the  road  to  Hede.  Refreshments  were  supplied ,  and  a  very  pretty  spectacle  it  was. 
But  I  should  have  told  you  the  order  of  our  going.  First  went  the  band,  playing , 
from  time  to  time ,  the  usual  patriotic  airs ,  being  relieved  by  the  troops ,  singing 
sundry  Marches,  one  of  which,  equally  quaint  and  animating,  was  a  genuine  Bretonne, 
with  a  laughable  burden,  that  sounded  like  ca-yelp!  a-yelp!  a-yelp!»  This  was- 
a  special  favourite.  Next  came  La  Cantiniere, — wife  to  one  of  the  sappers  and  miners. 


—  dressed  in  a  sailor's  glazed  hat ,  with  a  band  of  tri-coloured  ribbons,— a  lace-frilled 
collar,  with  a  delicate  pink  fichu, — a  blue  duck-tailed  jacked,  with  brass  embossed 
buttons,— a  red  petticoat,  broadly  bordered  with  black  velvet,— white  pantaloons, 
fringed  with  lace,  gracefully  falling  over  a  very  pretty  pair  of  sailor's  pumps.    She 
carried ,  slung  over  her  shoulders  with  a  belt  of  wide  gilt  leather,  a  small  green  keg  of 
brandy,  the  contents  of  which  she  sold  for  200  francs,  being  8  L. !!!    Then  came  the 
Sous-Prefet  in  full  uniform,  cocked-hat,  blue  silver-laced  coat,  white  trousers,  and 
scarf,  supported  by  the  Mayor  and  Deputy  with  scarfs.  Then  came  ourselves;  then  the 
Commandant  of  our  local  force;  then  500  National  Guards,  Sappers  and  Miners.     We 
returned  to  Dinan  at  5,  and  ascended  the  Grand  Chemin,  to  the  number  of  at  least 
1000  people.     Every  adjoining  romantic  height,  every  adjoining  romantic  path,  was 
crammed  with  happy  gazers,  who  met,  shortly  afterwards,  upon  La  Place,  where  the 
troops  disbanded ,  and  the  crowd  dispersed.     And  here  the  manifestation  of  joy  stops. 
The  many— the  aggravated— deaths  at  Paris— all  of  them  French  too— put  feteing  and 
illuminating  quite  out  of  the  question.    Besides,  there  is  such  a  thing  as  hollowing 
before  one  is  out  of  the  wood.     The  episode  is  over  ;  but  the  epic  ? — June  is  gone ;  but 
1848?  The  future  is  a  dark  problem;  and  still  the  skies  are  emblematically  black,  the 
weather  emblematically  bad.    The  cold  at  times  is  piercing :  I  marvel  it  doesn't  snow ! 
The  Republic,  hitherto,  has  been  like  a  rope  of  sand,  which  children  make  upon 
the  shore,  and  cannot  turn  to  any  consistent  purpose  :  a  continuity  of  weakness, 
it  will  neither  stretch  nor  coil,  but  chinks  and  cracks  and  crumbles,  not  only  to 
the  touch,  but  even  to  the  eye.    Alack!  alack!  how  wise  we  are  when  wisdom  is 
too  late!     A  little  less  obstinacy  in  the  first  instance,— a  little  more  firmness  in  the 
last,— and  Louis-Philippe— the  Friend  of  Peace— would  have  kept  his  Crown,  and 
saved  the  sea  of  blood,  which  has  flowed  alas!  because  he  was  afraid  to  spill  a  few 
drops.     Well,  well,'  it  is  an  ill  wind,  that  blows  nobody  any  good.     Should  the 
benefit  of  the  hurricane  elsewhere  be  equivocal  or  worse,  Old  England,  thank  God! 
must  profit  by  the  neighbouring  storm.     The  darling  themes  of  her  discontented  sons 
have  been  signally  tried  in  France,  and  as  signally  failed.     Vote  by  Ballot,  Universal 
Suffrage,  Chartism,— she  has  seen  them  all  at  Paris.     A  score  of  Frenchmen  have 
said  to  me  :   «  How  thankful  ought  you  cool-headed  English  to  be ,  that  we  have 
«  furnished  you  with  so  many  beacons  to  avoid  so  many  reefs ! »     Indeed ,  with  such 
faros  flaring  her  in  the  face,  she  must  be  very,  very  rash  to  run  upon  the  same 
rocks.    May  Heaven  prosper  the  dear  old  land !     Adieu  ! 

Believe  me ,  my  dear  boy,  your  affectionate  father, 
Dinan. 

STEPHEN  PRENTIS. 


DINAN. — TYI>.   DE  J.-B.   HUART.— 1848. 


SPECIMENS 
OF  TRANSLATION  FROM  THE  FRENCH. 


BY 


STEPHEN    PRENTIS,    I.    A. 

AUTHOR   OF 

TlNTERNj  STONEHENGE;  THE  WRECK  OF  THE  ROSCOMMON; 
THE  ROCKS  OF  PENMARC'II,  etc. 


j, -is.   sssjAss'r, 
aasj&s?,, 

1048, 


TO 
ROMANTIC  DINAN 

THE  FOLLOWING  PAGES  ARE  INSCRIBED 

BY    AN    ATTACHED    AND    GRATEFUL    RESIDENT 

OF    TEN    YEARS. 


(2©asss3m 


-i'li*~ 


r.\or. 

(  A  un  pere  sur  la  mort  de  sa  fille Malherbe.  2 

(  To  a  father  on  the  death  of  his  daughter •.  3 

(Fontenay,  ou  les  louanges  de  la  vie  champetre Ciiaulieu.  8 

(Fontenay,  or  the  praises  of  a  country- life 9 

(  Le  Chene  et  le  Roseau La  Fontaine,  16 

[The  Oak  and  the  Reed 17 

(  A  Philomele J.-B.  Rousseau.  20 

(To  Philomel 21 

(  Le  Grillon Florian.  21 

\  The  Cricket 25 

(  La  Melancolie Delillu.  28 

\  Melancholy 29 

(  La  Naissance  de  la  Rose Parky.  30 

[  The  Birth  of  the  Rose 31 

(La  chute  des  feuilles,  ou  le  jeune  mourant Milleyoye.  32 

^Autumn  leaves,  or  the  dying  boy 33 

(  Dcrniers  momens  d'un  jeune  poete,  mourant  ii  Fhopital.  .  Gilbert.  3b' 

(  Last  moments  of  a  young  poet ,  dying  in  a  hospital .  .  .  37 

f  La  Jeune  Captive Andre  Chenjer.  40 

(  The  Young  Captive -U 

j  Le  Montagnard  emigre Chateaubriand.  52 

I  The  emigrant  Mountaineer 53 


PACfc 

Le  Papillon Lamartine.  56 

The  Butterfly. 57 

(  Les  Hirondelles ,  ou  le  Prisonnier Beranger.  58 

(  The  Swallows,  or  the  Prisoner 59 

\  Smyrne,  ou  la  Captive  Espagnole Victor  Hugo.  62 

(  Smyrna,  or  the  Spanish  Captive.  . 03 

I  Adieux  a  un  Ruisseau Montesquieu.  68 

(  Farewell  to  a  Stream . 69 

i  Fragment ,  .  .  . L'Auleur  de  Marie.  70 

(  Fragment 71 

j  La  Feuille  fletrie MUe  de  Mercoeur.  72 

(  The  withered  Leaf 73 

(  Oil  vas-tu?  ou  la  Feuille  detachee ./...■..  Arnault.  74 

(  Whither  art  thou  going  ?  or  the  flying  Leaf 75 

f  Le  Sylphe Alexandre  Dumas.  76 

\  The  Sylph .  77 

(  Le  nid  de  Fauvettc Berquin.  SO 

(  The  Linnet's  nest 81 

Motes ,  85 


When  it  is  stated ,  that  the  compositor  is  utterly  unacquainted  with  English ,  and 
that  I ,  in  correcting  the  press ,  rather  than  weary  another  pair  of  eyes  ,  have  trusted 
to  my  own  alone ,  every  allowance  will  surely  be  made  for  such  orthographic  errors , 
as  may  possibly  exist  in  this  printed  work.  I  hope  and  think,  however,  that  they 
will  prove  but  very  few. 

S.  P. 


The  few  poetic  pieces ,  here  offered  to  notice  as  specimens  of  translation .  are 
rendered  into  English  from  various  verses,  which,  on  account  of  their  popularity 
in  France,  are  printed  en  regard,  so  that  the  reader,  who  may  dip  into  the  fol- 
lowing pages ,  and  be  conversant  with  the  mother-tongue  of  Malherbe  and  Chaulieu  , 
of  La  Fontaine  and  Rousseau ,  of  Florian  and  Delille ,  of  Parny  and  Millevoye ,  of 
Gilbert  and  Andre*  Chenier,  of  Chateaubriand  and  Lamartine,  of  Beranger  and 
Victor  Hugo,  will  be  certain  not  to  draw  a  blank. 

The  temptation ,  of  course ,  was  great — very  great — to  give  a  scene  each  from 
Corneille,  Racine,  Crebillon,  Voltaire  and  Moliere,  but,  from  the  inevitable  length 
of  them,  was  unwillingly  withstood.  Should  the  miss  be  complained  of,  and  the 
translations  added  to ,  it  will  be  obviously  easy  to  meet  the  objection  by  repairing 
the  deQciency. 

As  to  the  present  little  task, — being,  in  fact,  too  unvoluminous  to  dwell  upon,— 
it  must  speak  for  itself.  Still  it  may  be  allowable  to  state,  that  Coleridge,  in 
his  Table-Talk,  dissuades  a  translator,  on  politic  grounds,  from  a  fastidious 
observance  of  the  original.  The  poet,  perhaps,  had  seen  some  servile  copy  of  a 
line  engraving,  and  marked  the  stiffness  of  success.  I  have  endeavoured,  then, 
to  be  faithfully  free  ;  like  yonder  uncaged  bird  of  mine  ,  which  is  seldom  or 
never  so  lost  amid  the  leaves,  as  not  to  keep  the  aviary  in  view.  Should  I,  however, 
appear  to  any  one  to  have  here  and  there  wantonly  treated  my  subject ,  I  must 
beg  to  refer  the  party  in  question  to  his  probable  remembrance  of  a  Mansion-House 
report,  v.  So  help  me! »  said  a  drover,  who  had  been  summoned  before  the  Lord 
Mayor  for  his  hard  usage  of  some  oxen,  fresh  imported  from  Hamburgh,  a  So  help 
«  me  I  I'd  rather  drive  a  hundred  English  bullock  through  the  streets  of  Lunnun 
«  than  one  of  them  'ere  Frenchmen'.  »  «  Why ,  »  said  Sir  Peter,  laughing,  «  you 
«  surely  never  mean,  tliat  foreign  cattle  are  more  difficult  to  drive  than  native? » 
«  Ar'n't  they  though  ?  »  replied  the  delinquent ,  with  a  knowing  nod ,  « just 
«  you  try  '  em ,  my  lord .'  » 


MAJL22EEBBXS. 


JL  tin  I*ero,  siasr  la  niort  «I«  sa  Fille. 


Ta  douleur,  Du  Perier,  sera  done  eternelle? 

Et  les  trisles  discours, 
Que  te  met  en  l'esprit  Famine  paternelle, 

L'augmenteront  toujours  ? 

Le  malheur  de  ta  fille ,  au  tombeau  descendue, 

Par  un  comraun  trepas , 
Est-ce  quelque  dedale ,  oil  ta  raison  perdue , 

Ne  se  retrouve  pas? 


Je  sais  de  quels  appas  son  enfance  etait  pleine, 

Et  n'ai  pas  entrepris, 
Injurieux  ami ,  de  soulager  la  peine 

Avecque  son  mepris. 

Mais  elle  etait  du  monde,  ou  les  plus  belles  choses 

Ont  le  pire  destin  ; 
Et  rose ,  elle  a  vecu  ce  que  vivent  les  roses , 

L'espace  d'un  matin. 

Puis ,  quand  ainsi  serait ,  que ,  selon  la  priere , 

Elle  aurait  obtenu 
D'avoir  en  cheveux  blancs  termine  sa  carriere . 

Qu'en  fut-il  avenu  ? 


3WAIHEBBE. 


To  a  Father,  on  the  death  of  his  Daughter. 


And  must,  Du  Perier,  then,  thy  grief  eternal  prove? 
And  must  the  mournful  theme, 
— The  fond ,  tear-feeding  topic  of  a  father's  love  , — 
For  ever  swell  the  stream? 

Thy  daughter  dead ,  descended  by  the  common  doom , 

The  common  grave  to  fill , 
Should  reason  there  be  lost ,  as  in  a  maze  of  gloom , 

To  weep  and  wander  still? 

I  knew  thy  cherub  child ,  I  knew  her  winning  grace , 

And  have  not  underta'en , 
Disparaging  her  years ,  poor  friend !  to  so  efface 

A  childless  parent's  pain. 

But  she  was  of  a  world ,  where  things ,  that  fairest  be , 

Alas !  are  soonest  o'er  •, 
A  rose ,  she  saw  the  date ,  that  other  roses  see , 
— A  morning,  and  no  more. 

Thy  darling,  had  she  liv'd ,  according  to  thy  pray'r, 

A  lengthy  race  to  run , 
And  reach'd  the  dusty  goal  with  time-besilver'd  hair, 
What ,  what  Avould  she  have  won  ? 


Penses-tu ,  que ,  plus  vieilie ,  en  la  maison  celeste 

Elle  eut  eu  plus  d'accueil , 
Ou  qu'elle  eut  moins  senli  la  poussiere  funeste 

Et  les  vers  du  eercueil  ? 

Non ,  non,  mc-n  Du  Perier,  aussitot  que  la  Parque 

Ote  Tame  du  corps, 
L'age  s'evanouit  au-deca  de  la  barque, 

Et  ne  suit  point  les  morls. 

Tilhon  n'a  plus  les  ans ,  qui  le  firent  eigale , 

Et  Pluton  aujourd'hui , 
Sans  egard  du  passe ,  les  merites  egale 

D'Archemore  et  de  lui. 

Ne  le  lasse,  done,  plus  d'inutiles  complaintes, 

Mais ,  sage  a  l'avenir, 
Aime  une  ombre  comme  une  ombre,  et  des  cendres  eleintes 

Eteins  le  souvenir. 

C'est  bien  ,  je  confesse ,  une  juste  coutume , 

Que  le  cceur  afflige, 
Par  le  canal  des  yeux  versant  son  amertume , 

Cherche  d'etre  allege. 

Meme ,  quand  il  avient ,  que  la  tombe  separe 

Ce  que  nature  a  joint , 
Celui ,  qui  ne  s'emeut ,  a  Tame  d'un  barbare , 

Ou  n'en  a  de  lout  point. 


—  5  — 

Believ'st  thou ,  that  the  skies  would  more  have  welcom'd  her, 

Because  she  was  infirm  ? 
Or  deem'sl  ihou ,  that  the  old  less  feel  the  sepulcre 
And  coffin-loving  worm  ? 

No ,  no ,  Du  Pcrier,  no ,  the  soul's  no  sooner  fled , 

Than  age  forsakes  the  clay, 
Abandons  at  the  bank  the  Charon-ferri'd  dead , 

And  vanishes  away. 

Though  Tilhon ,  from  his  years ,  a  grasshopper  became , 

Yet  now  coeval  be 
To  Pluto  and  The  Past ,  that  set  them  at  the  same , 

Archemorus  and  he. 

Then  hush  these  idle  plaints ,  and ,  for  the  future  wise , 

A  shadow  rightly  view , 
And  since ,  for  ever  quench'd ,  thy  hope  in  ashes  lies , 

Oh  !  quench  remembrance  too  ! 

I  grant ,  unhappy  friend !  in  seasons  of  distress , 

'Tis  well  the  heart  should  choose 
The  channel  of  the  eyes ,  its  gather'd  bitterness 

In  timely  tears  to  lose ; 

And ,  e'en  when  Nature  snaps  her  own  dear  ties  alas ! 

( As  did  lo  thee  befall ,  ) 
Who  feels  not ,  has  the  soul ,  the  callous  savage  has , 
Or,  rather,  none  at  all ; 


—  G  — 

Mais  d'etre  inconsolable,  et  dedans  sa  memoirt 

Entermer  un  ennui , 
N'est-ce  pas  se  hair  pour  acquerir  la  gloire 

De  bien  aimer  autrui  ? 

De  moi ,  deja  deux  fois  d'une  pareille  foudre 

Je  me  suis  vu  perclus, 
Et  deux  fois  la  raison  m'a  si  bien  fait  resoudre, 

Qu  il  ne  m'en  souvient  plus. 

Non  qu'il  ne  me  soit  mal ,  que  la  tombe  possede 

Ce  qui  me  fut  si  cher, 
Mais  en  un  accident,  qui  n'a  point  de  remede, 

II  n'en  faut  point  chercher. 

La  mort  a  des  rigueurs  a  nulle  autre  pareilles ; 

On  a  beau  la  prier  : 
La  cruelle ,  qu'elle  est ,  se  bouche  les  oreilles , 

Et  nous  laisse  crier. 

Le  pauvre  en  sa  cabane ,  ou  le  chaume  le  couvre , 

Est  sujet  a  ses  lois, 
Et  la  garde,  qui  veille  aux  barriere  du  Louvre,. 

N'en  defend  point  nos  rois. 

De  murmurer  contr'elle  et  de  perdre  patience , 

11  est  mal-a-propos ; 
Youloir  ce  que  Dieu  veut  est  la  seule  science, 

Qui  nous  met  en  repos. 


But  wilfully  to  shut  a  sorrow  in  the  breast , 

And  comfort  never  know, 
What  is  it  but  to  chat ,  (a  sorry  fame  at  best!) 

And  be  thy  proper  foe  ? 

Though  twice  upon  my  head — this  scathed  head  of  mine — 

The  same  disaster  fell , 
I  rose  from  either  bolt , — a  philosophic  sign , 

That  reason  argu'd  well ! 

It  was  not  but  I  wept  the  early  earth  should  hide 

The  all ,  I  lov'd  so  much , 
But ,  smitten  by  a  chance ,  which  remedy  defi'd , 

I  ceas'd  to  look  for  such. 

Inexorable  Death ,  more  harsh  than  all  beside , 

Still  leaves  us  to  complain ; 
And ,  crying  as  the  millions ,  that  before  have  cried , 

We  sue  to  him  in  vain. 

The  pauper  in  his  hut,  the  straw  doth  barely  cover, 

Is  subject  to  his  nod ; 
And  kings ,  for  all  the  guard ,  that  shield  them  in  the  Louvre , 

Shall  sleep  beneath  the  sod. 

To  rail  at  certain  fate ,  and  murmur  against  God , 

Both  weak  and  wicked  is ; 
Whoe'er  would  be  at  peace  must  learn  to  kiss  the  rod , 

And  have  no  will  but  His. 


CS-l&TJiLIETJ, 


Foiitenay,  ou  les  louanges  tie  la  vie  ehaiiipetre* 


Desert,  airaable  solitude, 
Sejour  du  calme  et  de  la  paix , 
Asile  ,  ou  n'entrerent  jamais 
Le  lumulte  et  Tinquielude , 

Quoi !  j'aurai  tant  de  fois  chante 
Aus  tendres  accords  de  ma  lyre 
Tout  ce  qu'on  souffre  sous  r  empire- 
De  l'aniour  et  de  la  beaute , 

Et,  plein  de  la  reconnaissance 

Dc  tous  les  biens ,  que  tu  m'as  faits , 

Je  laisserai  dans  le  silence 

Tes  agremens  et  les  bienfaits ! 

G'est  toi ,  qui  me  rends  a  moi-memej 

Tu  calmes  mon  cceur  agile , 

Et  de  ma  seule  oisivete 

Tu  me  fais  un  bonbeur  extreme. 

Parmi  ces  bois  et  ces  hameaux , 
G'est  la ,  que  je  commence  a  vivre ; 
Et  j'empecberai  de  m'y  suivre 
Le  souvenir  de  tous  mes  maus. 


CHAULIEU- 


FoMteuay.  or  tSse  praises  of  a  coimtrj-life. 


Oh  !  Fontenay !  thou  dear  retreat ! 

Thou  happy  shade !  thou  favor'd  home ! 
Where  peace  and  quiet  ever  meet, 

And  noise  and  trouble  never  come ! 

And  shall  I ,  then ,  have  told  the  lyre's 
Recording  but  aweary  strings 

Of  all  the  grief,  that  love  inspires , 

And  all  the  bane ,  that  beauty  brings , 

And ,  even  when  my  heart  is  full 
Of  many  a  good  to  thee  I  owe , 

Shall  cold  ,  ungracious  silence  dull 
That  feeling  heart's  emotions  so ! 

For  thou  it  is  ,  that  leadest  back 

My  weak  and  wandering  self  to  me ; 

And  thou ,  whose  vacant  pleasures  make 
Of  idlesse  my  felicity. 

Yon  simple  hut , — this  silent  wood  , — 
Behold  at  last  my  life  begun  ! 

And  never  shall  a  thought  intrude 

Of  ills ,  with  which  my  soul  has  done ! 


—  10  — 

Emplois  ,  grandeurs  ,  tant  desirees  , 
Jai  connu  vos  illusions ; 
Je  vis  loin  des  preventions , 
Qui  forgent  vos  chaines  dorees. 

La  cour  ne  peut  plus  m'eblouir  : 
Libre  de  son  joug  le  plus  rude , 
J'ignore  ici  la  servitude 
De  louer  qui  je  dois  hair. 

Fils  des  dieux ,  qui  de  flatteries 
Repaissez  votre  vanite, 
Apprenez,  que  la  verile 
Ne  s'entend  que  dans  nos  prairies. 

Groite ,  d'ou  sort  ce  clair  ruisseau , 
De  mousse  et  de  fleurs  tapissee , 
N'enlretiens  jamais  ma  pense'e , 
Que  du  murmure  de  ton  eau. 

Bannissons  la  flatteuse  idee 
Des  hoimeurs ,  que  m'avaient  promis 
Mon  savoir-faire  el  mes  amis , 
Tous  deux  maintenant  en  fum.ee. 

Je  trouve  ici  tous  les  plaisirs 
D'une  condition  commune ; 
Avec  l'etat  de  ma  fortune 
Je  mets  de  niveau  mes  desirs. 


—  11  — 

The  pride  of  place ,  the  pomp  of  povv'r, 
I  know  them  both  for  vile  and  vain , 

And  blush  for  the  unworthy  hour, 
That  saw  me  hug  a  gilded  chain. 

But  here  (he  Court  can  daze  no  more , 
Nor  here  the  worst  of  yokes  subdue 

My  spirit ,  blinded  as  before , 

To  flatter  where  contempt  is  due. 

Those  would-be  gods ,  that  live  on  lies , 
Whom  fool- fed  adulation  feeds, 

Might  here  ( if  anywhere )  be  wise , 

And  learn ,  that  truth  affects  the  meads. 

Thou  grot !  whose  little  flowers  refrest 
Are  laughing  at  thy  little  spring , 

Oh !  ne'er  to  me  a  thought  suggest 

More  deep  than  thy  own  murmuring. 

Away  with  the  fallacious  dream 

Of  all  my  friends  and  savoir-faire 

Had  painted  like  the  summer  beam , 
To  vanish  like  the  summer  air. 

E'en  here ,  with  no  ambitious  fret , 
The  charms  of  middle  life  I  view  -, 

And  where  my  means  a  limit  set , 
My  wishes  set  a  limit  too. 


—  12  — 

Ah !  quelle  riante  peinlure 
Cliaque  jour  se  monlre  a  r.ies  yeux  ! 
Des  tre'sors ,  dont  la  main  des  dieux 
Se  plait  d'enrichir  la  nature ! 

Quel  plaisir  de  voir  les  troupeaux , 
Quand  ie  midi  bride  Therbetle , 
Ranges  autour  de  la  houlette , 
Cliercher  le  frais  sous  ces  ornieaux ! 


Puis ,  sur  le  soir  a  nos  musettes 
Ouir  repondre  les  coteaux , 
Et  retenlir  lous  nos  hameaux 
De  hautbois  et  de  chansonnetles , 

BJais  ,  helas  !  ces  paisibles  jours 
Coulent  avec  trop  de  vilesse ; 
Mon  indolence  et  ma  paresse 
N'en  peuvent  suspendre  le  cours. 

Deja  la  vieillesse  s'avance, 
Et  je  verrai  dans  peu  la  mort 
Executer  l'arret  du  sort , 
Qui  m'y  livre  sans  esperance. 

Fonlenay  !  lieu  delicieux  ! 
Oil  je  vis  d'abord  la  lumiere, 
Bientot  au  bout  de  ma  carriere , 
Chez  toi  je  joindrai  mes  aieux. 


1  ° 
—     1  o    — 

How  beautiful  is  all  around  , 

Above,  below!  ibe  air,  ibe  sod, 

-The  living  sky ,  the  living  ground  , — 
The  world ,  regifted  by  its  God  ! 

And  then  ,  at  noon  ,  to  lie  and  look  , 
And  see  upon  the  sunny  glade 

The  shepherd  with  his  idle  crook , 

The  dozing  flock  and  beechen  shade: 

And  then ,  at  eve ,  to  stand  and  hear 
The  music  of  the  mocking  hill , 

The  hautbois  in  the  hamlet  near, 
Or  chaunted  ditty ,  sweeter  still ! 

But  ah !  this  pleasant ,  piping  lime 
Is  ebbing  like  the  rest  away , 

Nor  echo'd  reed  nor  ditti'd  rhyme 

Must  hope  the  running  sand  to  stay. 

With  feeble  step,  but  steadily, 

Old  age  is  plodding  to  my  gale , 

And  there  by  death  shall  follow'd  be , 
To  do  the  stern  behest  of  fate. 

The  spot ,  that  me  my  being  gave , 

— A  little  while  gone  ailing  by , — 

The  same  shall  see  me  in  the  grave, 

And  lyine  where  my  fathers  lie. 


-   14  - 

Muses !  qui  dans  ce  lieu  champelre 
Avec  soin  me  files  nourrir! 
I5eaux  arbres !  qui  m'avez  vu  naitre . 
Uientut  vous  me  verrez  mourir ! 

Cependant  du  frais  de  votre  ombre 
II  faut  sagement  profiler, 
Sans  regret,  pret  a  vous  quitter 
Pour  ce  manoir  terrible  et  sombre , 

Oil  de  ces  arbres ,  dont  expres , 
Pour  un  doux  et  plus  long  usage , 
Mes  mains  ornerent  ce  bocage , 
Nul  ne  me  suivra  qu'un  cypres. 


mm 


—  15  — 

Ye  Muses ,  who ,  with  honey  wild  , 
My  young  poetic  fancy  fed  ; 

Ye  elms ,  that  knew  the  lisping  child , 
Ah  !  know  ye  this  declining  head  ? 

But,  husbanding  my  little  hour, 
Behoves  me  to  the  last  to  roam 

Each  soon-to-be-abandon'd  bow'r, 
Till  summon'd  to  another  home , 

Where ,  sole  of  all  the  cherish'd  grove 
I  planted  for  my  longer  span , 

The  cypress ,  with  a  mindful  love , 

Shall  mourn  an  else-forgotten  man ! 


1LA    TQETiLimm* 


Eie  Chene  et  le  SS«sea«B. 


Le  chene  mi  jour  dit  an  ioseau  : 
«  Yous  avez  bien  sujet  d'accuser  la  nalure  : 
«  1'n  roilelet  pour  vous  est  u'n  pesant  fardeau. 

«  Le  moindre  vent,  qui  d'avenlure 

«  Fait  rider  la  face  de  l'eau , 

«  Vous  oblige  a  baisser  la  tele ; 
«  Ccpendant  que  mon  front ,  au  Caucase  pared  , 
«  Non  content  d'arreter  les  rayons  du  soleil , 

«  Brave  Feft'ort  de  la  tempete. 
k  Tout  vous  est  aquilon  ,  tout  me  semble  zepbir. 
«  Encore  si  vous  naissiez  a  l'abri  du  feuillage . 

«  Dont  je  couvre  le  voisinage , 

«  Vous  n'auriez  pas  taut  a  souffrir ; 

«  Je  vous  defendrais  de  Forage. 

«  Mais  vous  naissez  le  plus  souvent 
«  Sur  les  bumides  bords  des  royaumes  du  vent, 
«  La  nature  envers  vous  me  semble  bien  injusle.  » — 

— «  Votrc  compassion,  »  lui  repondit  l'arbusle  , 
«  Part  d'un  bon  nature].  Mais  quittez  ce  souci. 

«  Les  vents  me  sont  moins  qu'a  vous  redoulables. 
«  Je  plie  et  ne  romps  pas.  Vous  avez  jusqu'ici 

<(  Contre  leurs  coups  epouvantables 

«  Resiste  sans  courber  le  dos ; 
«  Mais  altendons  la  lin.  »  Comme  il  disait  ces  mots, 


LA    FONTAINE. 


Tiie  Oak  and  the  Reed. 


One  day  the  oak  address'd  Ihe  reed 
In  language ,  such  as  see  : 
«  Nature  hast  thou  to  charge  indeed 

«  With  harshness  unto  thee ; 
«  For  lo !  thou  caus't  not  even  bear 

«  The  smallest  bird  the  bushes  hide , 
«  Succumbing  lo  the  lightest  air, 

«  That  skims  the  just-beruffled  tide , 
<c  Whilst  I ,  an  Etna  in  the  way , 
«  Not  only  stop  Apollo's  ray , 

«  But  Boreas'  breath  beside. 
«  Thus  we  in  all  the  zephyr  find , 
«  Where  all  to  you  is  northern  wind. — 
«  Had  partial  fate  at  least  decreed , 
«  That  thou  should'st  rise ,  unhappy  reed ! 
«  Beneath  my  far-defending  green , 
«  How  milder  would  thy  lot  have  been  ! 
«  In  lieu  of  which ,  thy  home  is  still 

«  The  naked  swamp ,  the  humid  marsh 
ii  Obnoxious  to  the  tempest's  will , 
— «  Yea !  nature  unto  thee  is  harsh.  » — 

«  Thy  pity  »  said  the  reed  in  turn , 
«  Becomes  the  king  of  trees ; 

«  Yet  be  at  rest ,  and  deign  to  learn 
«  How  fanciful  it  is. 


—  18  — 

Du  bout  de  l'horizon  accourt  avec  furie 

Le  plus  terrible  des  enfans , 
Que  le  nord  eut  portes  jusque-la  dans  ces  flancs. 

L'arbre  lient  bon ;  le  roseau  plie. 

Le  vent  redouble  ses  efforts , 

Et  fait  si  bien ,  qu'il  deracine 
Celui ,  de  qui  la  tete  au  ciel  etait  voisine , 
Et  dont  les  pieds  touehaient  a  Tempire  des  morts. 


—  19  — 

«  Of  ihee ,  not  me ,  will  prove  at  last 

«  Some  sudden  storm  the  riving  wreck , 
«  When  be  it  thine  to  brave  the  blast , 

«  And  mine  to  bow ,  instead  of  break. 
«  Thy  force  has  hitherto ,  I  grant , 
«  Been  ne'er  unworthy  of  thy  vaunt , 

«  Nor  known  as  yet  to  shake , 
«  But  bide  the  end.  »  And ,  with  the  word , 

The  hurricane  at  hand  is  heard ! 
— The  hurricane  ,  as  fierce  a  child , 
As  ever  sprang  of  Boreas  wild ! 
The  one  resists ,  the  other  yields , 
The  wind  a  treble  fury  wields, 
Till ,  toppled  down ,  uprooted  lies 

The  giant  bulk ,  whose  soaring  head 
But  now  was  neighbour  to  the  skies, 

With  feet,  that  sought  the  shadowy  dead. 


'&H 


A    Philomele. 


Pourquoi ,  plaintive  Philomele  ! 
SoDger  encore  a  vos  malheurs , 
Quand  ,  pour  apaiser  vos  douleurs  , 
Tout  cherche  a  vous  marquer  son  zeie  i 

L'univers ,  a  votre  retour, 
Semble  renaitre  pour  vous  plairc ; 
Les  Dryades  a  votre  amour 
Pretent  leur  ombre  solitaire. 

Loin  de  vous  l'aquilon  fougueux 
Souffle  sa  piquante  froidure ; 
La  terre  reprend  sa  verdure ; 
Le  ciel  brille  des  plus  beaux  feux. 

Pour  vous  1'amanie  de  Cephale 
Enrichit  Flore  de  ses  pleurs  : 
Le  Zephyr  cueille  sur  les  fleurs 
Les  parfums,  que  la  terre  exhale. 

Pour  entendre  vos  doux  accents 
Les  oiseaux  cessent  leur  ramage , 
Et  le  chasseur  le  plus  sauvage 
Sespecte  vos  jours  innocents. 


ROUSSEAU. 


To    5?MIoauel. 


Ah  !  why ,  complaining  Philomel ! 
For  ever  ou  thy  anguish  dwell , 
Since  all  essaying  things  combine 
To  ease  that  aching  heart  of  thine  ? 

For  thee  the  world  seems  born  anew , 
And  yet  thy  cry  is  still  Tereu ! 
Thy  cry  is  still  Tereu!  and  yet 
For  thee  the  Dryads  all  are  met! 

The  winter  winds  once  more  asleep , 
Or  in  their  native  northern  keep , 
For  thee  the  earth  again  is  green , 
For  thee  the  air  again  serene. 

The  eyes ,  that  pine  at  Cephalus , 
For  thee  bedew  the  roses  thus ; 
And,  where  for  thee  the  vi'lets  sigh, 
Be  sure  the  jealous  Zephyr's  by. 

The  birds ,  with  deferential  throat , 
Are  hush  to  hear  thy  welling  note ; 
And,  weapon-safe  and  fowler-free, 
Not  e'en  the  urchin  aims  at  thee. 


—  22  — 

Cependant  voire  ume  atlendrie 
Par  un  douloureux  souvenir, 
Des  malheurs  d'une  soeur  cherie 
Semble  toujours  s'entretenir. 

Helas !  que  mes  tristes  pensees 
M'offrent  des  maux.  bien  plus  cuisants ! 
Vous  pleurez  des  peines  passees , 
Je  pleure  des  ennuis  presents ! 

Et,  quand  la  nature  attentive 
Chercbe  a  calmer  vos  deplaisirs , 
II  faut  meme ,  que  je  me  prive 
De  la  douceur  de  mes  soupirs. 


—  23  — 

And  yet  thy  sad ,  unsolac'd  breast , 
With  one  unwasting  thought  opprest, 
(  A  sister's  cruel  wrong , )  appears 
A  fountain  of  eternal  tears ! 

Ah !  cease  thy  sorrows  to  bewail , 
And  think  of  those ,  that  me  assail  ; 
Thou  weep'st  an  ill ,  for  ages  gone , 
But  I  the  ill  of  ev'ry  morn ! 

And ,  since  all  nature  wills  it  so , 
Must  I  my  wretched  self  forego , 
And  e'en  my  proper  grief  resign , 
To  feel  for  thee,  and  mourn  for  thine. 


FLOBZAN. 


lie  €2s*illoiie 


Un  pauvre  petit  grillon . 

Cache  dans  Tlierbe  fleurie, 
Regardait  un  papillon 

Voltigeant  dans  la  prairie. 
L'insecte  aile  brillait  des  plus  vives  couleurs  : 

L'azur,  le  pourpre ,  et  Tor  eclataient  sur  ses  ailes. 
Jeune,  beau,  petit-maiire,  il  court  de  fleurs  en  fleurs , 
Prenant  et  quiltant  les  plus  belles. 
«  Ah !  »  disait  le  grillon ,  «  que  son  sort  et  le  mien 

«  Sont  differens !  Dame  Nature 
«  Pour  lui  fit  tout ,  et  pour  moi  rien. 

«  Je  n'ai  point  de  talent ,  encore  moins  de  figure. 
«  Nul  ne  prend  garde  a  moi ,  l'on  m'ignore  ici-bas  ■ 
«  Autant  vaudrait  n'exister  pas.  »— 

Comme  il  parlait,  dans  la  prairie 
Arrive  une  troupe  d'enfans. 
Aussitot  les  voila  courans 
Apres  ce  papillon ,  dont  ils  out  tous  envie. 
Chapeaux ,  mouchoirs ,  bonnets ,  servent  a  l'attraper, 
L'insecte  vainement  cherche  a  leur  echapper, 

II  devient  bienlot  leur  conquete. 
L'un  le  saisit  par  Faile ,  un  autre  par  le  corps ; 
Un  troisieme  survient,  et  le  prend  par  la  tele. 


nORI-M?, 


The  Cricket. 


A  cricket  once ,  with  envious  eye , 

Amid  the  summer  grass  conceal'd , 
Was  watching  of  a  butterfly, 
That  flutler'd  in  the  field. 
The  latter,  conscious  of  his  downy  paint, 

The  azure ,  gold ,  and  purple  of  his  wing , 
A  thousand  flow'rs  a- wooing  as  he  went, 

Kept  leaving  them  in  turn ,  the  fickle  thing ! 
«  Alas!  «  the  cricket  thought,  «  his  lot  and  mine, 

«  How  different  they  be  : 
«  To  him  could  Nature  ev'ry  gift  assign , 
«  And  none  at  all  to  me ! 
«  With  nothing  to  adorn , 
«  No  colours  to  attract ,  no  parts  to  please , 
«  So  mean  my  look ,  so  lost  my  being  is , 
«  I  grieve ,  that  I  was  born !  » — 

Just  then  to  that  enamell'd  mead 

Some  happy  urchins  chanc'd  to  hie, 
Who  straight  began ,  with  vying  speed , 
To  hunt  the  butterfly. 
The  showy  prize  impatient  to  secure , 

Each  hat  was  off,  each  handkerchief  was  out, 
Till ,  one  and  all ,  they  seiz'd  upon  the  poor 
Demolish'd  fop,  and  mangled  him  about. 


—  2G  — 

II  ne  fallait  pas  tant  d'efforts 

Pour  declarer  la  pauvre  bele. 

«  Oh  '  oh  !  »  dit  le  grillon ,  «  je  ne  suis  plus  Cache  : 

<(  II  en  coute  trop  cher  pour  briller  dans  le  monde. 

«  Combien  je  vais  aimer  ma  relraite  profonde ! 

«  Pour  vivre  heureux  vivons  cache.  » 


«  Ho !  ho !  »  the  cricket  cried ,  «  and  are  ye  there , 

«  My  fascinating  beau  ? 
<(  Why,  then,  let  others  glitter  in  the  air, 

«  So  I  but  live  below ! 

«  To  judge  by  you ,  I  guess  , 
«  A  figure  in  the  world  costs  rather  dear. 
«  I  see  betimes,  in  that  invidious  sphere, 

«  Seclusion  's  happiness !  » 


DEXaliiEL 


JLa   Sfelamcolie. 


Remarquez-les  surtout ,  lorsque  la  pile  Automne, 
Pres  de  la  voir  fletrir,  embellit  sa  couronne. 
Que  de  variete ,  que  de  pompe ,  et  d'eclat ! 
Le  pourpre ,  1'orange ,  l'opale ,  l'incamat , 
De  leurs  riches  couleurs  etalent  l'abondance. 
Helas !  tout  cet  eclat  marque  leur  decadence. 
Tel  est  le  sort  commun  :  bientot  les  aquilons 
Des  depouilles  des  bois  vont  joncher  les  vallons. 
De  moment  en  moment  la  feuille  sur  la  terre 
En  tombant  interrompt  le  reveur  solitaire. 
Mais  ces  ruines  memo  ont  pour  moi  des  attraits. 
La  ,  si  mon  cceur  nourril  quelques  profonds  regrets , 
Si  quelque  souvenir  vient  rouvrir  ma  blessure , 
J'aime  a  meler  mon  deuil  au  deuil  de  la  nature. 
De  ces  bois  desseches ,  de  ces  rameaux  lletris , 
Seul ,  errant,  je  me  plais  a  fouler  les  debris. 
lis  sont  passes ,  les  jours  d'ivresse  et  de  folie , 
Viens ,  je  me  livre  a  toi ,  lendre  Melancolie ! 
Viens ,  non  le  front  charge  de  nuages  affreux  , 
Dont  marche  enveloppe  le  chagrin  tenebreux , 
Mais  Tceil  demi-voile ,  mais  telle  qu'en  Automne  , 
A  travers  des  vapeurs,  un  jour  plus  doux  rayonne. 
Viens,  le  regard  pensif,  le  front  calme,  et  les  yeux 
Tout  prets  'a  s'humecter  de  pleurs  delicieux. 


DEHL1E. 


^felaischoly. 


But  most  observe  the  changes  of  the  leaves , 
Her  fleeting  crown  when  pallid  Autumn  weaves. 
What  varied  pomp  !  what  splendour  to  behold  ! 
Opal  and  orange ,  purple ,  red ,  and  gold 
Their  lavish  store  of  richest  hues  display , 

— The  fine  forerunners  of  a  swift  decay  ! 

And  such  the  common  lot  :  tbe  northern  gale 

Will  soon  bestrew  the  solitary  vale , 

Where  many  a  falling  leaf  of  many  a  tree 

Disturbs  the  dreamer's  startled  reverie. 

Yet  e'en  these  very  ruins  of  the  wood 

Have  charms  to  sooth  my  very  saddest  mood  , 

And  ne'er  doth  memory  wake  the  sleeping  grief, 

But  mourning  Nature  sighs  a  sure  relief. 

With  lonely  step  how  deeply  do  1  love 

To  pace  the  russling  alleys  of  the  grove , 

Where  wilher'd  leaves  and  mossy  branches  lie . 

And  read  my  heart  a  wholesome  homily ! 

The  days  are  gone  of  giddiness  and  folly , 

Then  welcome  thou ,  absorbing  Melancholy  ! 

Yet  come  not  with  a  look  of  cloudy  care, 

Where  sorrow  sits,  as  sable  as  despair, 

But  come  with  half- veil'd  eye,  and  such  as  shows 

The  soften'd  ray  at  Autumn's  dewy  close ; 

With  pensive  visage  come ,  and  quiet  head , 

And  lids,  that  only  wait  delicious  tears  to  shed. 


JPilB^¥. 


JLa   ftfaissaaire   «!«*   la  Hose. 


Lorsque  Venus,  sortant  du  sein  des  mers , 

Souril  aux  Dieux ,  cbarmes  de  sa  presence , 

Un  nouveau  jour  eclaira  Funivers. 

Dans  ce  moment  la  rose  prit  naissance. 

D'nn  jeune  lys  elle  avait  la  blancheur, 
Mais  aussitot  le  pere  de  la  treille 

De  ce  nectar,  dont  il  fut  l'inventeur, 
Laissa  lomber  une  goulle  vermeille , 

Et  pour  toujours  il  changea  sa  couleur. 

De  Citheree  elle  est  la  fleur  cherie , 

Et  de  Paphos  elle  orne  les  bosquets. 
Sa  douce  odeur,  aux  celestes  banquets , 

Fait  oublier  celle  de  l'ambroisie. 

Son  vermilion  doit  parer  la  beaute  ; 

G'est  le  seul  faid,  que  met  la  volupte. 

A  celle  bouche ,  ou  le  sourire  joue , 
Son  coloris  prele  un  charme  divin  : 

De  la  Pudeur  elle  couvre  la  joue, 

El  de  l'Aurore  elle  rougit  la  main. 


PAHNY. 


The  Birth   of  the   Bow. 


When  sea-born  Venus  sought  the  realms  above, 
Where ,  ever  since ,  a  warmer  aether  glows  , 

And  Ida  hail'd  the  smiling  Queen  of  Love , 

The  Queen  of  Flow'rs  was  smiling  in  the  Rose. 

As  fair  it  was ,  as  lilies  to  the  eye , 

Till  lo !  by  happy  chance  or  deep  design , 

Young  Bacchus  held  the  brimming  bowl  awry , 

And  stain'd  the  leaves  with  Hebe-handed  wine. 

Since  when  the  gods,  at  their  carousing  hour, 
Though  all  around  Elysian  odour  flows , 

To  Paphos  send  for  Cytherea's  flow'r, 

And  drink  lo  Venus  and  the  blushing  Rose. 

No  other  lint  let  Liber's  youth  require ; 

No  other  dye  let  Hebe's  damask  seek  •. 
No  other  hue  let  Venus'  self  desire 

To  crown  the  charm  of  her  bewitching  cheek. 

Ah !  well  indeed  that  hue  must  needs  adorn 

Her  heav'nly  face ,  where  best  it  ever  shows , 

Since  e'en  the  very  fingers  of  the  morn 

Ascribe  Iheir  beauty  to  the  blushing  Rose. 


mniiaiiEVOYE. 


liia  chute  des  lew!  lies  ,  ou  le  jeune  iBiotiraiit« 


De  la  depouille  de  nos  bois 
L'Automne  avait  jonche  la  terre ; 
Le  bocage  etait  sans  mystere, 
Le  rossignol  etait  sans  voix. 

Triste  et  mourant  a  son  aurore , 
Un  jeune  malade  a  pas  lents 
Parcourait  une  fois  encore 
Le  bois  cher  a  ses  premiers  ans  : 

«  Bois ,  que  j'aime ,  adieu !  je  succombe 
«  Yotre  deuil  me  predit  mon  sort ; 
«Et,  dans  chaque  feuille,  qui  tombe , 
«  Je  vois  un  presage  de  mort. 

«  Fatal  oracle  d'Epidaure , 
«  Tu  rn'as  dis  :  Les  feuilles  des  bois 
«  A  tes  yeux  jauniront  encore  : 
«  Mais  c'est  pour  la  derniere  fois. 

«  L'eternel  cypres  t'environne  ; 
«  Plus  pale  que  la  pcile  Automate , 
t  Tu  t'inclines  vers  le  lombeau. 
«  Ta  jeunesse  sera  jlelrie 
«  Avant  I' her  be  de  la  prairie, 
«  Avant  le  pampre  du  coteau  -v 


MULE  VOTE. 


Autumn  leaves,  or  the  dying  lioy. 


When  Autumn,  with  her  yellow  store, 
Was  strewing  fast  the  silent  vale, 

Whose  labyrinth  of  leaves  no  more 
Conceal'd  the  timid  nightingale, 

With  deep  disease  and  sorrow  deep , 
A  dying  boy ,  for  all  his  pain , 

Arose  from  unrefreshing  sleep , 

To  wander  in  that  vale  again  : 

«  Sweet  valley !  where  my  childhood  play'd , 
«  And  where  a  gay  and  giddy  thing , 

«  I  sported  in  the  early  shade , 

«  Nor  look'd  beyond  the  sunny  spring  5 

«  But  now,  as  aller'd  as  the  year, 
«  I  read  my  end  in  every  tree , 

«  Since  every  leaf,  that  rustles  here, 
«  Is  ominous  of  death  to  me. 

«  Ne'er  spake  the  famous  oak  of  old 

«  More  soothly  than  this  wither'd  one  : 

«  Another  fall  shalt  thou  behold, 

«  And  then  thy  little  date  is  done. 

«  Thy  grave  is  dug ;  the  cypresses 

«  Are  standing  round  in  ready  gloom  , 

«  For,  paler  than  the  willow  is , 

«  Like  her,  thou  droopest  to  the  tomb. 


—  34  — 

a  Et  je  meurs.  De  sa  froide  haleine 
«  Le  vent  funeste  m'a  touche : 
«  Mon  printemps  commencait  a  peine, 
k  Et  mon  hiver  s'est  approche. 

«  Tombe ,  tombe  ,  feuille  ephemere , 
«  Voile  aux  yeux  ce  triste  chemin ; 
«  Cache  au  desespoir  de  ma  mere 
«  La  place,  ou  je  serai  demain. 

«  Mais ,  dans  la  solitaire  allee , 

«  Si  mon  amante  echevelee 

«  Yenait  pleurer  quand  le  jour  fuit , 

«  Eveille  par  un  leger  bruit 

«  Mon  ombre  un  instant  consolee*  » — 

II  dit ,  s'eloigne ,  et  sans  retour ! 
La  derniere  feuille,  qui  tombe, 
A  signale  son  dernier  jour. 
Sous  le  chene  on  creusa  sa  tombe. 

Mais  son  amante  ne  vint  pas 
Visiter  la  pierre  isolee  ; 
Et  le  patre  de  la  vallee 
Troubla  seul  du  bruit  de  ses  pas 
Le  silence  du  mausolee. 


—  35  — 

«  Before  the  green  is  off  the  grass, 
«  Before  the  vine  is  bare  and  dry , 

«  Thij  faded  youth  away  shall  pass.  ' 

«  The  doom  's  accomplish'd ,  and  I  die ! 

«  In  body  weak ,  in  spirit  worn , 
«  I  feel  the  earthy  vapour  blow ; 

«  And ,  even  as  the  dappled  morn , 

«  Dave  seen  my  chequer'd  April  go. 

«  Ye  leaves ,  that  sink  like  me  apace ! 

«  When  eager  Death  has  had  his  due , 
«  In  pity  hide  my  resting-place, 

«  And  veil  it  from  my  mother's  view. 

«  But  ah !  if  she if  she,  I  say, 

— <c  The  maiden  I  so  dearly  love , — 
«  Should  haply  come ,  at  close  of  day, 
«  To  weep  in  the  accustom'd  grove , 

«  And  shade ,  with  her  dishevell'd  hair , 
«  My  simple  stone  in  fond  regret , 

«  Oh !  wake  me  to  her  presence  there , 
«  And  tell  me  of  some  comfort  yet !  » 

He  said ,  and  went  away — to  die , 
As  fell  the  last  remaining  leaf; 

His  grave  the  wither'd  oak  is  by , 

But  where  is  love's  surviving  grief? 

Alas !  above  his  simple  stone 

No  hair-dishevell'd  maiden  grieves  : 

The  shepherd's  step  disturbs  alone 

The  silence  of  those  autumn-leaves. 


(EII,BEBT= 


ESentiers  isiffismeiiSis  d'uu  Jcuite  |»oc4e,  Bssoisi'ant  a  I'hogtUal. 


J'ai  revele  mon  coeur  au  Dieu  de  l'innocence , 

II  a  vu  mes  pleurs  penitens ; 
II  guerit  mes  remords ,  il  m'arme  de  Constance  ; 

Les  malheureux  sont  ses  enfans. 

Mes  ennemis ,  riant ,  ont  dit  dans  leur  colere  : 
«  Qu'il  meure ,  et  sa  gloire  avec  lui !  » 

Mais  a  mon  coeur  calme  le  Seigneur  dit  en  pere  ; 
«  Leur  haine  sera  ton  appui. 

«  A  tes  plus  chers  amis  ils  ont  prete  leur  rage ; 

«  Tout  trompe  ta  simplicile. 
«  Celui ,  que  tu  nourris ,  court  vendre  ton  image , 

«  Noire  de  sa  mechancete. 

«  Mais  Dieu  t'entend  gemir,  Dieu  ,  vers  qui  te  ramene 
«  Un  vrai  remords ,  ne  des  douleurs ; 

«  Dieu ,  qui  pardonne  enfin  a  la  nature  humaine 
«  D'etre  faible  dans  les  malheurs. 

ii  J'eveillerai  pour  toi  la  pilie,  la  justice 

«  De  rincorruptible  avenir ; 
«  Eux  meme  epureront ,  par  leur  long  artiflce , 

«  Ton  honneur,  qu'ils  pensent  ternir.  » 


GI1BEBT. 


Last  moments  of  a  young  poet ,  dying  in  a  hospital. 


The  God ,  to  Whom  my  heart's  reveal'd , 
Hath  seen  my  penitential  tears , 

My  spirit  arm'd ,  my  conscience  heal'd , 
And  heard  me  as  a  father  hears. 

When  they ,  that  hated ,  scoffing  pray'd 

Of  Death  to  crown  my  fame  and  me , 
He  ealm'd  my  troubled  soul ,  and  said  : 
«  Their  malice  thy  support  shall  be. 

«  Thy  own  familiar  easy  friends 

«  They  chafe  to  equal  wrath  malign , 

(i  And  he ,  thy  brain  hath  nourish'd ,  vends 
«  An  image ,  basely  pass'd  for  thine. 

<(  But  I ,  that  give  contrition  birth , 

«  Can  hear  thy  wholesome  sorrow  sigh  , 

«  Nor  vex  me,  that  a  son  of  earth 
«  Should  droop  at  human  misery, 

«  The  future ,  taught  to  feel  aright , 

«  In  turn  the  truth  shall  duly  show , 

«  And  e'en  thy  very  foes  unite 

«  To  clear  the  name  they  sully  so.  » — 


—  38  — 

Soyez  beni ,  mon  Dieu !  vous ,  qui  daignez  me  rendre 

L'innocence  et  son  noble  orgueil ; 
Vous ,  qui ,  pour  proteger  le  repos  de  ma  cendre , 

Veillerez  pres  de  mon  cercueil ! 

Au  banquet  de  la  vie ,  inforlune  convive , 

J'apparus  un  jour,  et  je  meurs  ; 
Je  meurs ,  et  sur  ma  tombe ,  ou  lentement  j'arrive , 

Nul  ne  viendra  verser  des  pleurs. 

Salut ,  champs ,  que  j'aimais !  et  vous ,  douce  verdure  ! 

Et  vous ,  riant  exil  des  bois ! 
Ciel ,  pavilion  de  l'homme !  admirable  nature  ! 

Salut ,  pour  la  derniere  fois  ! 

Ah !  puissent  voir  long-temps  votre  beaute  sacree 

Tant  d'amis ,  sourds  a  mes  adieux ! 
Qu'ils  meurent  pleins  de  jours !  que  leur  mort  soit  pleuree ! 

Qu'un  ami  leur  ferme  les  yeux ! 


—  39  — 

All  hallow'd  be ,  all  gracious  God ! 

That ,  cheering  -with  a  holy  trust , 
Hast  promis'd  to  protect  my  sod , 

And  guard  its  else-dishouour'd  dust. 

One  fleeting  day  of  Life  the  guest , 
The  next  beholds  me  dying  here ; 

And  who,  of  the  carousiDg  rest, 

Will  seek  my  grave ,  and  shed  a  tear  ? 

Ye  fields ,  where  nature's  love  began ! 

Ye  sylvan  haunts ,  that  weari'd  never ! 
Ye  skies ,  the  azure  tent  of  man ! 

Adieu  for  ever, and  for  ever ! 

My  friends ,  ( alas !  not  one  is  by !  ) 

Oh !  long  may  they  your  beauty  prize , 

And  ,  full  of  years ,  lamented  die , 

With  friends  to  close  their  thankful  eyes ! 


(  Extrait  preliminaire  de  «  I'Histoire  des  Girondins,  »  par  M.  de  Lamartine.  ) 


«  Le  caractere  des  peuples  survit  meme  a  leurs  revolutions.  La  certitude  de 
mourir  ne  repandait  pas  l'horrcur  sur  Finterieur  des  prisons  de  Paris.  La  sen- 
sation de  la  morl  s'elait  emoussee ,  a  force  de  se  renouveler  dans  les  arnes. 
Chaque  jour  d'oubli  etait  une  fete  de  la  vie ,  qu'on  se  hata  de  consacrer  au 
plaisir.  L'insouciance  de  sa  propre  destinee  elevait  les  detenus  jusqu'a  1'appa- 
rence  du  stoicisme.  La  legerete  du  caractere  imitait  Tinlrepidite.  Des  societes , 
des  amities ,  des  amours  se  nouaient  pour  une  heure  entre  les  prisonniers  des 
deux  sexes.  On  prodiguait  a  la  distraction  et  aux  affections  des  momens,  de- 
vours a  la  niort.  Les  entretiens ,  les  rendez-vous ,  les  correspondances  myste- 
rieuses ,  les  jeux  du  theatre ,  imites  dans  les  cachots ,  la  musique ,  les  vers , 
la  danse  se  continuaient  jusqu'aux  dernieres  heures.  On  venait  arracher  l'un 
au  jeu ,  il  laissait  ses  carles  a  l'autre ;  celui-ci  a  la  table ,  il  achevait  de  vider 
sou  verre ;  celui-la  aux  embrassemens  d'une  femme  ou  d'une  amanle,  et  il 
epuisait  le  dernier  regard  et  le  dernier  serrement  de  main.  Jamais  le  genie  a 
la  fois  inlrepide  et  voluptueux  de  la  jeunesse  fran?aise  n'avait  joue  de  si  pres 
avec  le  danger.  Le  supplice  rendait  cetle  jeunesse  sublime  sans  avoir  pu  la 
rendre  serieuse.  La  religion  ,  cette  visiteuse  des  inforlunes ,  consolait  le  plus 
grand  nombre.  Des  prelres  ,  emprisonnes  ou  introduits  sous  des  deguisemens , 
celebraient  les  mysteres  du  culte ,  rendus  plus  touchants  |iar  la  similitude  du 
sacrifice.  La  poesie ,  ce  soupire  articule  de  Tame ,  notait  pour  l'immortalite  les 
dernieres  palpitations  du  cceur  des  poetes.  M.  de  Montjourdain ,  commandant 
de  bataillon  de  la  garde  nalionale ,  adressa ,  la  veille  de  sa  mort ,  les  strophes 
suivanles  a  la  jeune  femme ,  qn'il  allait  laisser  veuve  : 


«  L'heure  approche  oil  je  vais  mourir ; 

<(  L'heure  sonne ,  et  la  mort  m'appelle : 
«  Je  n'ai  point  de  lache  soupir ; 

«  Je  ne  fuirai  point  devant  elle. 


ANDBE    CHEHIBB. 


-<x>  — 


Preliminary  extract  from  «  The  History  of  the  Girondins,  »  by  Mr  de  Lamartine.) 


«  The  character  of  a  people  survives  its  very  revolutions.  The  certainty  of 
dying  cast  no  shadow  of  dismay  over  the  interior  of  the  prisons  of  Paris.  The 
emotion  of  death  was  deadened,  as  it  were,  by  dint  of  its  constant  recurrence 
to  the  soul.  Every  added  day  of  forgetfulness  was  only  another  day  for  existence  to 
rejoice  in;  and  jubilee  was  the  hasty  object  of  all.  The  captives,  in  appearance 
at  least,  were  raised  into  stoics  by  their  sheer  indifference  to  life;  and  natural 
insouciance  assumed  the  semblance  of  moral  intrepidity.  Societies,  intimacies, 
attachments  of  the  hour,  were  formed  between  the  prisoners  of  either  sex  , 
who  lavished  on  amusement,  on  friendship,  and  on  love,  the  moments,  which 
were  due  and  dedicate  to  death.  Discourse,  and  rendez-vous  ,  and  secret  cor- 
respondence,—  the  stage,  transported  to  the  cell,  —  the  song,  —  the  stroph  , — 
the  dance, — were  continued  to  the  last.  Was  one  of  them  called  away  in  the 
middle  of  his  game  ?  he  made  over  his  cards  to  the  next.  Was  a  second  at 
table  at  the  time  ?  he  emptied  his  glass.  Was  a  third  in  tender  converse  with 
his  mistress  or  his  wife?  he  indulged  ,  to  the  full,  in  the  last  long  look  of 
the  eye,  iu  the  last  long  pressure  of  the  lip, —  the  waist, —  the  hand.  Never 
had  the  genius  of  French  youth,  half-hero,  half-volupluary ,  as  it  is,  sported 
so  close  upon  the  grave,  —  the  grave,  the  mortal  peril  of  which  rendered 
that  youth  sublime ,  though  it  failed  to  make  it  serious.  Religion  ,  which  visits 
the  unfortunate,  consoled  the  major  part  of  them.  Priests,  imprisoned  like  them- 
selves ,  or  admitted  there  in  disguise ,  performed  the  affecting  duties  of  their 
faith,  which  were  all  the  more  touching  from  the  similarity  of  the  sacrifice. 
Poetry,  the  articulate  sigh  of  the  soul ,  marked  for  immortality  the  last  beatings 
of  the  poetic  heart.  Monsieur  de  Monijourdain  ,  Commandant  of  Battalion  of  the 
National. Guard,  addressed,  on  the  eve  of  execution,  the  following  stanzas  to 
his  youthful  wife ,  so  soon  to  become  a  widow  : 

«  The  hour's  at  hand  ,  and  I  must  die ; 

«  It  strikes ,  and  death  my  name  doth  call ; 
«  Yet  heaves  my  heart  no  coward  sigh , 

«  For  ne'er  can  death  that  heart  appall. 


—  42  — 

«  Demain  mes  yeux  inaninies 

«  Ne  s'ouvriront  plus  sur  tes  charmes  ; 
«  Tes  beaux  yeux ,  a  l'amour  fernies , 

«  Demaiu  seront  noyes  de  larmes. 

«  Si  (lis  ans  j'ai  fait  ton  bonheur, 

«  Garde  de  briser  mon  ouvrage ; 
«  Donne  un  moment  a  la  douleur, 

«  Consacre  au  bonbeur  ton  jeune  age. 
«  Qu'un  heureux  epoux  a  son  tour 

«  Vienne  rendre  a  ma  douce  amie 
«  Des  jours  de  paix,  des  nuits  d'amour, 

«  Je  ne  regrette  plus  la  vie. 

«  Si  le  coup,  qui  m'attend  demain, 

«  N'enleve  pas  ma  tendre  mere , 
«  Si  l'age,  Fennui ,  le  chagrin 

«  N'accablent  pas  mon  pauvre  pere , 
«  Ne  les  fuis  pas  dans  ta  douleur ; 

«  Reste  a  leur  sort  toujours  unie ; 
«  Qu'ils  me  retrouvent  dans  ton  coeur, 

«  lis  aimeront  encore  la  vie ! 


«  L'auteur  du  poeme  des  Mois,  Roucher,  l'Ovide  moderne  ,  posait  devant  un 
peiutre  au  moment,  ou  Ton  vient  lui  apporler  l'ordre  de  comparaitre  au  tribunal. 
Un  tel  ordre  equivalait  a  une  condamnation.  Roucher  n'etait  coupable  que  de 
son  merile ,  qui  avait  jete  de  l'eclat  sur  la  moderation  de  ses  principes.  II  sa- 
vait ,  que  la  demagogie  ne  pardonnait  pas  meme  a  l'aristocralie  du  talent.  II 
supplia  les  guicheliers  d'allendre  que  son  portrait,  destine  a  sa  femme  et  a  ses 
enfans,  fut  acheve.  Pendant  que  le  peintre  donnait  les  derniers  coups  de  pin- 


«  To  morrow .  blind  to  even  thee , 
«  My  eyes  shall  close  to  ope  no  more, 

«  And  thine  in  quenching  torrents  he 
«  As  lost  to  love ,  that  lit  before. 

«  Would'st  thou  of  ten  unchecker'd  years 

«  Thy  husband's  labour  not  destroy  ? 
«  Then  give  one  feeling  day  to  tears , 

«  And  all  the  youthful  rest  to  joy. 
«  As  soon  as  other  love  shall  haste 

«  To  wed  thee  in  its  happy  turn , 
«  And  clasp  the  form  I  once  embrae'd , 

«  So  soon  my  soul  shall  cease  to  mourn. 

«  My  mother, — should  to-morrow's  blow 

«  Not  bear  her  to  the  sudden  tomb , — ■ 
«  My  father , — should  to-morrow's  woe 

«  Not  smite  him  with  an  equal  doom , — 
«  Unchilded  ,  save  in  only  thee  , 

«  Their  sonless  age  ah !  ne'er  forget ; 
«  Do  thou  their  tender  solace  be', 

«  And  life  may  have  its  pleasure  yet !  » 


«  Roucher,  the  modern  Ovid,  author  of  the  poem  of  the  months,  was 
sitting  for  his  picture ,  when  summoned  to  present  himself  before  the  tribunal. 
Such  a  summons  was  equivalent  to  a  condemnation.  His  only  crime  was  his  merit, 
which  had  cast  a  lustre  upon  the  moderation  of  his  principles.  He  knew,  that, 
with  the  demagogues ,  even  the  aristocracy  of  talent  was  an  unpardonable  sin. 
He  besought  his  jailers  to  wait  until  the  portrait,  intended  for  his  wife  and 
children,  should  be  finished.  Whilst  the  artist  was  giving  the  last  touches  to  it, 


—  44  — 

ceau ,  il  ecrivil  lui-meme  sur  ses  genous  l'inscription  suivanle ,  pour  ejpliquer 
a  l'avenir  la  melancolie  de  ces  traits  : 

«  Ne  vons  etonnez  pas ,  objets  cberis  et  doux , 
«  Si  quelque  air  de  tristessc  obscurcit  mon  visage ; 
«  Quand  uu  crayon  savant  dessinait  celte  image , 

«  On  dressait  Techafaud ,  et  je  pensais  a  vous.  » 


«  Andre  Chenier,  ame  romaine ,  imagination  allique,  que  sou  courageux  pa- 
Iriotisme  avail  enleve  a  la  poesie  pour  le  jeter  dans  la  politique ,  avait  ele  em- 
prisonne  comme  Girondin.  Les  reves  de  sa  belle  imagination  avaient  trouve  leur 
realite  dans  Mlle  de  Coigny,  enfermee  dans  la  meme  prison.  II  rendait  a  celte 
jeune  captive  un  culte  d'enlhousiasme  et  de  respect ,  ailendri  encore  par  l'ombre 
sinistre  de  la  mort  precoce,  qui  couvrait  deja  ces  demenres.  II  lui  adressait  ces 
vers  immortels ,  le  plus  melodieux  soupir,  qui  soit  jamais  sorli  des  fenles  d'un 
cachot.  G'est  la  jeune  fille,  qui  parle  et  qui  se  plaint  dans  la  langue  de  Jephle. 


EJa  eSessBBe  ©active. 

«  L'epi  naissant  mtirit  de  la  faux  respecte , 
Sans  crainte  du  pressoir  le  pampre  tout  Tele 

Boit  les  doux  presens  de  1'aurore ; 
Et  moi ,  comme  lui  belle ,  et  jeune  comme  lui , 
Quoique  l'heure  presente  ait  de  trouble  et  d'ennui , 

Je  ne  veux  point  mourir  encore. 

Qu'un  sto'ique  aux  yeux  sees  vole  embrasser  la  mort 
.Moi ,  je  pleure  et  j'espere.  Au  noir  souffle  du  nord 

Je  ploie  et  rcleve  ma  lete. 
S'il  est  des  jours  amers ,  il  en  est  de  si  doux ! 
Helas  !  quel  miel  jamais  n'a  laisse  de  degouts  ? 

Quelle  mer  n'a  point  de  tempete? 


—    10   — 

he  himself  wrote  upon  his  knees  the  following  inscription ,  that  posterity  might 
understand  why  it  was  his  features  wore  so  melancholy  a  look  : 

«  Ye  objects  dear,  and  sacred  to  my  heart, 

«  A  face  so  sad  oh !  marvel  not  to  view , 
a  Since  while  the  pencil  plied  its  faithful  art , 

«  The  block  was  waiting,  and  I  thought  of  you.  » 

«  Andre  Cherrier, — in  soul  a  Roman,  in  imagination  a  Greek,  —  whom  his 
courageous  patriotism  had  withdrawn  from  poetry  to  plunge  into  politics,  had 
been  incarcerated  as  a  Girondin.  The  dreams  of  his  fine  fancy  had  found  their 
realization  in  Mlle  de  Coigny,  confined  in  the  same  prison  as  himself.  He  offered 
to  the  young  captive  a  worship  of  equal  enthusiasm  and  respect,  made  still  more 
touching  by  a  sense  of  the  untimely  fate ,  which  already  overshadowed  those 
mournful  cells.  To  her  it  was,  that  he  addressed  these  immortal  verses,  —  the 
most  melodious  sigh ,  which  ever  yet  arose  from  the  crevices  of  a  dungeon.  It 
is  the  young  girl  herself,  who  speaks  and  plains  in  the  language  of  Jephtha  : 

The  ironing  Captive. 

«  The  scythe  respects  the  corn's  unripen'd  ear ; 
The  summer  grape  no  autumn  press  doth  fear, 
But  sips  at  ease  the  dawn's  distilling  sky ; 
So  I,  of  equal  beauty  in  the  flow"r, 
Tho'  care  may  dim  the  transitory  hour, 
— Ah !  no ,  I  cannot  thus  untimely  die. 


Let  tearless  Stoics  rush  to  welcome  death , 
Be  mine  to  weep  and  wait.  At  winter's  breath 

I  bow  my  head ,  retiring  in  alarm. 
If  days  there  bitter  be ,  how  sweet  are  some ! 
Was  ever  yet  a  galless  honeycomb  ? 

Or  sea  alas !  that  never  knew  a  storm  ? 


/-  46  — 

L'illusion  feconde  habite  dans  mon  sein. 
D'une  prison  sur  moi  les  murs  pesent  en  vain  5 

J'ai  les  ailes  de  I'esperance. 
Echappee  aux  reseaux  de  l'oiseleur  cruel , 
Plus  vive ,  plus  heureuse ,  aux  campagnes  du  ciel 

Philomele  chante  et  s'elance. 

Est-ce  a  moi  de  mourir?  Tranquille  je  m'endors , 
Et  tranquille  je  veille  •,  et  ma  veille  aux  remords 

Ni  mon  sommeil  ne  sont  en  proie. 
Ma  bienvenue  au  jour  me  rit  dans  tous  les  yeux ; 
Sur  des  fronts  abattus  mon  aspect  dans  ces  lieux 

Ranime  presque  de  la  joie. 

Mon  beau  voyage  est  si  loin  de  sa  fin ! 

Je  pars ,  et  des  ormeaux ,  qui  bordent  le  chemin , 

J'ai  passe  les  premiers  a  peine. 
Au  banquet  de  la  vie ,  a  peine  commence , 
Un  instant  seulement  mes  levres  ont  presse 

La  coupe ,  en  ma  main  encore  pleine. 

Je  ne  suis  qu'au  printemps ;  jc  veux  voir  la  moisson 
Et ,  comme  le  soleil ,  de  saison  en  saison 

Je  veux  achever  mon  annee. 
Brillante  sur  ma  tige ,  et  Thonncur  du  jardin , 
Je  n'ai  vu  luir  encore  que  les  feux  du  matin  5 

Je  veux  achever  ma  journee. 


—  4?  — 

A  rich  illusion  in  my  spirit  dwells , 
And ,  far  above  these  ineffective  cells , 

High  on  the  wings  of  happy  Hope  I  soar. 
Escap'd  the  net  the  fowler  spread  in  vain , 
The  lark  the  azure  aether  doth  regain , 

A  blither  songster  even  than  before. 

Is  it  for  me  to  die  ?  for  me ,  that  sleep 
As  calm  as  childhood  ,  and ,  awaking ,  keep 

No  vigil,  where  remorse  the  heart  doth  tear? 
For  me ,  whose  glad  good-morrow  to  the  skies 
Is  mirror'd  in  so  many  grateful  eyes  , 
— Whose  look  relieves  so  many  more  of  care. 

So  far  from  clos'd  my  joyous  journey  is , 
That,  out  of  all  its  avenue  of  trees, 

The  first  green  elms  I  barely  yet  have  past. 
At  life's  regale  a  scarcely-seated  guest , 
My  lips  the  brimming  bowl  have  hardly  prest; 

And  must  so  poor  a  pledge,  then,  be  the  last? 

Not  May  alone ,  but  harvest  would  I  view , 

And ,  like  the  sun ,  that  rolls  the  seasons  through , 

The  shining  quarters  of  my  year  would  tell. 
So  fair  upon  my  stalk,— the  garden  queen, — 
As  yet  the  dayspring  only  have  I  seen  , 
—Ah !  let  me  see  the  rosy  eve  as  well ! 


—  48  - 

Oh  morl !  tu  peux  attendre  ,  eloigne ,  eloigne-tor ; 
Va  consoler  les  cceurs ,  que  la  honte ,  Teffroi , 

Le  pale  desespoir  devore  : 
Pour  moi  Pales  encore  a  des  asiles  verts , 
Les  Amours ,  des  baisers ;  les  Muses ,  des  concerts  : 

Je  ne  veux  point  mourir  encore.  » — 

Ainsi ,  triste  et  captif,  ma  lyre  toulefois 
S'eveillait ,  ecoutant  ces  plaintes ,  celte  voix  , 

Ces  voeux  d'une  jeune  captive ; 
Et,  secouant  le  faix  de  mes  jours  languissans  , 
Aux  douces  lois  des  vers  je  pliais  les  accens 

De  sa  bouche  aimable  et  naive. 

Ces  chants,  de  ma  prison  lemoins  harmonieux  , 
Feront  a  quelque  amant  des  loisirs  sludieux 

Chercher  quelle  fut  cette  belle. 
La  grace  decorait  son  front  et  ces  discours  : 
Et ,  comme  elle ,  craindront  de  voir  finir  leurs  jours 

Ceux ,  qui  les  passeront  pres  d'elle. 

Comme  un  dernier  rayon ,  comme  un  dernier  zephyr 

Anime  la  fin  d'un  beau  jour , 
Au  pied  de  l'echafaud  j'essaie  encore  ma  lyre. 

Peut-etre  est-ce  bientot  mon  tour. 
Peut-etre ,  avant  que  l'heure ,  en  cercle  promenee , 

Ait  pose  sur  l'email  brillant , 
Dans  les  soixante  pas  011  sa  route  est  bornee , 

Son  pied  sonore  et  vigilant, 


—  49  — 

Impatient  Death!  avaunt,  avaunt,  I  say! 
Go ,  comfort  them ,  that  sorrow  doth  dismay , 

Despair  doth  crush ,  or  shame  doth  terrify ! 
For  me,  my  bosom  Pales  still  enthralls, 
And  tender  walks ,  and  piping  pastorals , 
— Ah!  no!  I  cannot  thus  untimely  die.  »— > 

And  thus  it  was ,  where  melancholy  reign'd , 
"With  lisl'ning  lyre ,  that  piti'd  as  she  plain'd  , 

A  youthful  captive  I,  a  captive,  heard, 
And ,  shaking  off  the  languor  of  the  time , 
I  swept  the  strings ,  and  fashion'd  into  rhyme 

The  sad ,  sweet  notes  of  that  melodious  bird. 

My  verse, — the  earnest  of  my  prison  plight , — 
Some  loving  heart  at  leisure  may  incite 

To  search  for  all  the  Muse  hath  unexprest ; 
Suffice,  that  she,  confess'd  without  a  peer, 
So  charm'd  the  soul,  Ave  felt  a  common  fear 
To  end  the  days  her  wit  and  beauty  blest. 

Tlie  last  verses  of  Andre  Cueuier. 

As  some  last  ray ,  some  zephyr's  lingering  breath 

Salutes  the  coming  night,  so  even  I 
Would  hail  the  scaffold  with  a  song  of  death , 

Though  haply  doom'd  the  very  next  to  die. 
Perchance,  before  the  wasting  hour  hath  ta'en 

With  wheeling  foot  its  sixty-stepped  round , 
And  duly  heard ,  on  the  enamell'd  plain , 

The  watchful  clock  record  it  with  a  sound , 


—  50  — 

Le  soinmeil  du  tombean  pressera  mes  paupieres. 

Avant  que  de  ses  deux  moilies 
Ce  vers ,  que  je  commence ,  ait  atteint  la  derniere , 

Peut-etre  en  ces  murs  em-ayes 
Le  messager  de  mort ,  noir  recruteur  des  ombres , 

Escortes  d'infames  soldats , 
Remplira  de  mon  nom  ses  longs  corridors  sombres. 

Et,  justement,  on  Tappela ,  la  plume  encore  a  la  main! 

«  La  veille ,  soixante-deux  teles  etaient  tombees  entre  le  premier  discours  de 
Robespierre  et  sa  chute.  De  ce  nombre  etait  celle  de  Roucber  et  celle  du  jeune 
poete,  Andre  Chenier,  l'espoir  alors,  le  deuil  eternel  depuis ,  de  la  poesie  fran- 
caise.  Ces  deux  poetes  etaient  assis ,  Tun  a  cote  de  1'autre ,  sur  la  meme  ban- 
quette, les  mains  altachees  derriere  le  dos.  lis  s'entrelenaient  avcc  calme  d*un 
autre  monde ,  avec  dedain  de  celui ,  qu'ils  quitlaient.  lis  detournaient  les  yeux 
de  ce  troupeau  d'esclaves,  et  recitaient  des  vers,  immortels  comme  leur  memoire. 
lis  montrerent  la  (ermele  de  Socrate.  Seulement  Andre"  Ghenier,  deja  sur  Te- 
chafaud,  se  frappant  la  tete  contre  un  poteau  de  la  guillotine  :  «c'est  donmiage,* 
dit-il ,  « j'avais  quelque  chose  Id.  »  Lent  et  toucbant  reprocbe  a  la  destinee  , 
qui  se  plaint,  non  de  la  vie,  mais  du  genie  tranche  avant  le  temps.  » 


—  51  — 

The  slumber  of  the  sod  mine  eyes  will  seal , 

Aye ,  ere  this  hurri'd  stroph  shall  finish'd  be  , 

My  hand  may  cease  to  move ,  my  heart  to  feel , 
A  headless  trunk  the  all,  that's  left  of  me. 

E'en  now ,  perchance ,  the  usher  of  the  dead 
— The  fatal  sergeant ,  that  recruits  for  shades , — 

These  soldier-haling  aisles  doth  tramping  tread , 
To  startle  with  my  name  ...  — 

At  ibis  moment  he  was  called ,  the  pen  still  in  his  hand  ! 

«  On  the  yesterday ,  two  and  sixty  heads  had  fallen  between  the  delivery  of 
Robespierre's  first  speech  and  his  death.  Of  this  number  were  those  of  Roucher 
and  Andre  Chenier,  the  latter  the  then  hope ,  the  subsequent  everlasting  loss , 
of  French  poetry.  These  two  were  seated ,  side  by  side ,  on  the  same  bench , 
their  hands  tied  behind  their  backs.  They  discoursed  with  serenity  of  another 
world ,  with  disdain  of  the  one  they  were  just  about  to  leave ,  and  turned  their 
eyes  away  from  the  herd  of  slaves  around  them ,  to  recite  verses ,  as  immortal 
as  their  own  memory.  They  displayed  the  firmness  of  Socrates ,  Andre  Chenier 
merely  saying,  as,  already  on  the  scaffold,  he  struck  his  head  against  a  beam 
of  the  guillotine  :  «  It  is  a  pity ,  for  there  was  something  there !  » —  a  loth 
and  affecting  accusation  of  destiny,  which  complained,  not  of  life,  but  of  genius- 
precociously  cut  off.  » 


m 


CHATEAUBRIAND. 


lie   Montagirard   emigre. 


Combien  j'ai  douce  souvenance 

Du  joli  lieu  de  ma  naissance ! 

Ma  soeur !  qu'ils  etaient  beaux  ces  jours 

De  France ! 
0  mon  pays,  sois  mes  amours 

Toujours ! 

Te  souvient-il,  que  notre  mere, 
Au  foyer  de  notre  chaumiere , 
Nous  pre^sait  sur  son  sein  joyeus , 

Ma  chere  ! 
Et  nous  baisions  ses  blonds  cheveux  , 

Tous  deux  ! 

Ma  soeur,  te  souvient-il  encore 
Du  chateau ,  que  baignait  la  Dore , 
Et  de  cette  tant  vieille  tour 

Du  Maure, 
Ou  l'airain  sonnait  le  relour 

Du  jour? 

Te  souvient-il  du  lac  tranquille, 
Qu'effleurait  1'hirondelle  agile? 
Du  vent ,  qui  courbait  le  roseau 

Mobile? 
Et  du  soleil  couchant  sur  l'eau , 

Si  beau? 


CHATEAUBBIilTfD. 


The   cmisrasit   Mountaineer. 


How  sweetly  well  can  I  recall 

The  spot ,  where  I  was  born ,  and  all , 

That  made  my  native  skies  above 

So  gay! 
Oh !  France !  my  country !  be  my  love 

For  aye ! 

And  thou ,  too ,  of  the  cottage-hearth , 
Where  she ,  that  gave  our  being  birth , 
Would  clasp  us  with  a  fond  delight, 

And  where 
We  kiss'd  her  aged  tresses  white , 

The  pair, — 

Canst  thou  remember,  sister  dear! 
The  castle  and  the  Dora  near, — 
The  aspect  of  the  Moorish  tow'r 

At  morn , 
Whose  crazy  turret  toll'd  the  hour 

Of  dawn , — 

The  quiet  lake, — the  skimming  swift,— 
The  truant  zephyr,  all  adrift, — 
The  limber  rush's  dipping  head , 

So  wet , — 
The  sun ,  that  lurn'd  the  waters  red , 

And  set? 


—  54  — 

Tc  souvient-il  de  cette  amie , 
Douce  compagne  de  ma  vie? 
Dans  les  bois,  en  cueillant  la  fleur 

Jolie , 
Helene  appuyait  sur  mon  cceur 

Son  cceur. 


Oh !  qui  me  rendra  mon  Helene , 
Et  ma  montagne  et  le  grand  chene? 
Leur  souvenir  fait  tous  les  jours 

Ma  peine; 
Mon  pays  sera  mes  amours 

Toujours ! 


—  55  — 

Canst  thou  remember,  sister,  say, 

My  Helen  of  a  happier  day , 

When ,  roaming  in  the  wood ,  for  flow'rs 

To  twine, 
She'd  lean  that  gentle  heart  of  her's 

On  mine  ? 


Ah  !  who  my  Helen  will  restore , 
My  hill ,  the  old  big  oak  of  yore , 
Whose  sad  remembrance  naught  can  move 

Away  ? 
For  France,  my  country,  is  my  love 

For  aye ! 


m 
&& 


liC  IPapilloii. 


Naitre  avec  le  printemps ,  mourir  avec  les  roses ; 
Sur  l'aile  du  zephyr  nager  dans  un  ciel  pur ; 
Balance  sur  le  sein  des  fleurs  a  peine  ecloses , 
S'enivrer  de  parfurns ,  de  lumiere  et  d'azur ; 
Secouant ,  jeune  encore ,  la  poudre  de  ces  ailes . 
S'envoler,  comme  un  souffle.,  aus.  voiites  eternelles 
Tel  est  du  papillon  le  desiin  enchante. 
II  ressemble  au  desir,  qui  jamais  ne  se  pose, 
Et ,  sans  se  satisfaire ,  effleurant  toute  chose , 
Retourne  enfin  au  Ciel  chercher  la  voluple. 


1AMABTINE. 


Tlie  Butterfly. 


Wilh  spring  together  to  be  born  5 

Together  with  the  rose  to  die ; 
AVith  wafting  zephyrs  wake  at  morn , 

And  sail  in  the  unsullied  sky; 
A  moment  pois'd ,  with  pinions  bright , 

On  flowers ,  unfolding  here  and  there , 
To  revel  in  the  dainty  light, 

The  odour  and  the  azure  air ; 
So  young,  and  yet  so  glad  to  shake 

The  dust  upon  its  wings  away, 
And ,  even  as  the  soul ,  to  take 

Its  flight  to  fields  of  endless  day  : 
For  this  the  favor'd  child  of  jelher , 

The  restless  Butterfly  was  made , 
Which,  like  desire,  doth  settle  neither 

In  sunny  shine  nor  mellow  shade , 
But , — pleasure  skimm'd  and  pleasure  tried  , 

As  pleasure  is  enjoy'd  on  earth , — 
Returns  to  heav'n  unsatisfied , 

And  seeks  it  in  its  place  of  birth. 


W 


ILes  USa'ffimdelles «  ®w  le  l?B*£soiiiftieia. 


'5 

-■O0-- 


Captif  au  rivage  du  Maure, 

Un  guerrier,  courbe  sur  ses  fers , 

Disait  :  <i  Je  vous  vois  encore , 
Oiseaux ,  ennemis  des  hivers. 

Hirondelles,  que  Fesperance 

Suit  jusqu'en  ces  brulans  climats , 

Sans  doute  vous  quittez  la  France , 
— De  mon  pays  ne  me  parlez-vous  pas? 

Depuis  trois  ans  je  vous  conjure 

De  m'apporter  un  souvenir 
Du  vallon ,  ou  ma  vie  obscure 

Se  bercak  d'un  doux  avenir. 
Au  detour  d'une  eau,  qui  chemine, 

A  flols  purs ,  sous  de  frais  lilas , 
Vous  avez  vu  notre  chaumine, 
— De  ce  vallon  ne  me  parlez-vous  pas  ? 

L'une  de  vous  peut-etre  est  nee 
Au  toit ,  ou  je  re?us  le  jour  5 

La ,  d'une  mere  infortunee 

Vous  avez  du  plaindre  Tamour. 

Mourante ,  elle  croit  a  toute  heure 
Entendre  le  bruit  de  mes  pas  : 

Elle  ecoute,  et  puis  elle  pleure 

— De  son  amour  ne  me  parlez-vous  pas? 


BEBANGER 
The  Swallows,  or  tlie  Prisoner. 

<X) 

A  warrior,  bow'd  with  heavy  chains, 

A  caplive  of  the  Moor, 
Beheld  upon  those  parching  plains 

The  swallows  as  before , 
And  said  :  «  Ye  winter-shunning  things ! 
Whom  hope  pursues ,  on  faithful  wings , 
From  France  to  burning  Araby, 
— Ah  !  speak  ye  not  of  home  to  me  ? 

Three  years  have  I  besought  of  you 

A  token  of  the  dell , 
Where  life  a  fitting  future  drew 

So  overweening  well ! 

The  waters'  pure  and  placid  flow, 

A-winding  where  the  lilacs  grow, 

And  near  the  hut  ye  love  to  see, 

— Ah  !  speak  ye  not  of  home  to  me  ? 

Perchance  my  native  roof  o'  straw 

Of  you  halh  shelter'd  one ' 
Beneath  the  summer  eaves ,  that  saw 

My  mother  mourn  her  son. 
From  time  to  lime,  with  dying  ear, 
She  turns  my  living  step  to  hear, 
And  then  her  tears  so  bitter  be, 
— Ah !  speak  ye  not  of  home  to  me  ? 


—  60  — 

Ma  sceur,  est-elle  mariee? 

Avez-vous  vu  de  nos  garcons 
La  foule,  aux  noces  conviee, 

La  celebrer  dans  leurs  chansons ; 
Et  ces  compagnons  du  jeune  age, 

Qui  rn'ont  suivi  dans  les  combats , 
Ont-ils  revu  lous  le  village?... 
— De  tant  d'amis  ne  me  parlez-vous  pas  ? 

Sur  leurs  corps  l'etranger  peut-elre 

Du  vallon  reprend  le  chemin ; 
Sous  mon  chaume  il  commande  en  maitre, 

De  ma  sceur  il  trouble  l'hymen. 
Pour  moi  plus  de  mere ,  qui  prie , 

Et  partout  des  fers  ici-bas 

Hirondelles  de  ma  patrie ! 

De  ses  malheurs  ne  me  parlez-vous  pas? »- 


—  61  — 

My  sister,  is  she  married  yet? 

Did  ye  behold  the  throng 
Of  youths ,  that  in  the  village  met 

To  sing  the  wedding-song? 
And  they , — my  young  companions  all . 
That  left  the  glen  at  Glory's  call , 
Have  all  relrac'd  the  quiet  leaf 
-Ah !  speak  ye  not  of  home  to  me  ? 

Perhaps  alas!  a  foreign  foot 

Is  on  them  in  the  dell, 
And  that  usurp' d  and  troubled  hut 

Is  hymenless  as  well. 
My  mother  now  no  more  can  pray, 
And  all  but  chains  have  past  away.... 
Ye  swallows ,  come  from  over  sea ! 
Ah !  speak  ye  not  of  home  to  mel  » 


§BMyriie,  on  la  Captive  ISspagnole. 


Si  je  n'etais  caplive, 

J'aimerais  ce  pays , 
Et  cette  mer  plaintive , 

Et  ces  champs  de  mai's 
Et  ces  astres  sans  norabre, 
Si  le  long  du  mur  sombre 
N'etincelait  dans  l'ombre 

Le  sabre  des  spahis. 

Je  ne  suis  point  Tartare, 
Pour  qu'un  eunuque  noir 

M'accorde  ma  guitare , 

Me  tienne  mon  miroir. 

Bien  loin  de  ces  Sodomes , 

Au  pays ,  dont  nous  sommes , 

Avec  les  jeunes  hommes 
On  peut  parler  le  soir. 

Pourtanl  j'aime  une  rive , 
Ou  jamais  des  hivers 

Le  froid  souffle  n'arrive 
Par  les  vitraux  ouverls. 

L'ete ,  la  pluie  est  chaude ; 

L'insecie  vert,  qui  rode, 

Luit,  vivante  emeraude, 

Sous  les  brins  d'herbe  verts. 


VICTOB   2H7GO- 

Siaayrua.   or   the   Spanish   Captive. 

— oo- — 

How  gladly  could  I  gaze, 

Were  I  but  only  free, 
On  yonder  glowing  maize , 

And  on  the  sighing  sea , 
And  on  the  starry  night, 
Excepting  for  the  bright 
Quick  glitter  on  the  height, 
— The  sword  of  the  spahee ! 

Am  I,  then,  of  Bokhar, 

That  slaves  like  these  alas! 

Should  tune  me  my  guitar, 

And  hold  my  looking-glass? 

In  our  unharem'd  clime , 

At  evening's  social  time , 

We  meet  without  a  crime, 
And  parley  as  we  pass. 

And  yet  I  love  the  earth , 

Where  casement  ne'er  hath  seen 

A  cloudlet  of  the  north , 
Nor  winter  ever  been. 

The  rain  in  summer's  warm ; 

The  fireflies  in  a  swarm 

Parade  their  little  form , 

And  light  the  grass  as  green. 


—  64  — 

Smyrne  est  une  princesse 

Avec  son  beau  *  chapel ; 
L'heureux  printemps  sans  cesse 

Repond  a  son  appel , 
Et,  corame  un  riant  groupe 
De  fleurs  dans  une  coupe, 
Dans  ses  mers  se  decoupe 

Plus  d'un  frais  archipel. 

J'aime  ces  tours  vermeilles , 

Ces  drapeaux  triomphants , 
Ces  maisons  d'or,  pareilles 

A  des  jouets  d'enfants ; 
J'aime  pour  mes  pensees , 
Plus  mollement  bercees , 
Ces  tentes  balancees 

Au  dos  des  elephants. 

Dans  ce  palais  de  fees, 

Mon  coeur,  plein  de  concerts, 
Croit  aux  voix  etouffees , 

Qui  viennent  des  deserts, 
Entendre  les  genies 
Meier  les  harmonies 
Des  chansons  infinies , 

Qu'ils  chantent  dans  les  airs. 

J'aime  de  ces  contrees 

Les  doux  parfums  brulants ; 
Sur  les  vitres  dorees 

Les  feuillages  tremblanls  ; 

*  «  Vieux  mot,  qui  se  disait  autrefois  pour  chapeau.  Or,  chapeau  de  fleurs  est  une  guirlandc,  tell 
que  porle  une  jeune  personne  aux  noccs.  » 

Dictionnaire  de  Napoleon  Landais. 


—  Go  — 

And  Smyrna's  to  the  view 

A  garland-crowned  thing, 
Whose  soft  behests  renew 

The  blithe  obeying  spring  ; 
And ,  like  a  vase ,  that  shows 
The  group  about  the  rose, 
With  archipelagos 

Her  seas  are  blossoming. 

I  love  these  golden  domes ; 

These  lowers ,  vermilion-hu'd  ; 
These  toy-resembling  homes ; 

These  flags ,  in  aether  strew'd  5 
These  summer-houses  fair, 
The  elephants  upbear, 
< — I  love  to  humour  there 

My  visionary  mood. 

With  harmony  replete , 

My  spirit  seems  to  hear 
In  this  enchanted  seat 

A  fairy  legion  near, 
That  o'er  the  desart  come , 
A  many-singing  sum, 
Melodious  as  the  hum 

Of  fly-birds  in  Cashmeer.  * 

I  love  the  hot  perfumes ; 

The  leaves,  so  glossy  bright, 
That  scale  the  gilded  rooms 
In  tremulous  delight  5 

*  the  humming-bird  ( gallice  ,  oiseau-mouche  )  must  have  a  fine  feast  in  Cashmeer !  and  beautiful 
indeed  must  it  be  ,  in  that  aromatic  land ,  —  in  that  Paradise  of  birds  and  bees  and  butterflies  and 
flowers,  —to  see,  in  some  delicious  grove  of  scented  shrubs,  those  painted  particles  of  life, 
«  Like  atoms  of  the  rainbow ,  fluttering  round  '  > 


—  66  - 

L'eau ,  que  la  source  epanche 
Sous  le  palmier,  qui  penche , 
Et  la  cicogne  blanche 

Sur  les  minarets  blancs. 

J'aime  en  un  lit  de  mousses 
Dire  un  air  espagnol , 

Quand  mes  compagnes  douces , 
Du  pied  rasant  le  sol, 

Legion  vagabonde , 

Ou  le  sourire  abonde , 

Font  tournoyer  leur  ronde 
Sous  un  rond  parasol. 

Mais,  surtout,  quand  la  brise 

Me  touche  en  voltigeant 
La  nuit,  j'aime  etre  assise, 

Etre  assise  en  songeant, 
L'ceil  sur  la  mer  profonde, 
Tandis  que ,  pale  et  blonde , 
La  lune  ouvre  dans  l'onde 
Son  eventail  d'argent. 


—  67  — 

The  palms ,  that  look  below 
At  where  the  Avaters  flow ; 
The  storks ,  as  white  as  snow , 
On  minarets  as  white. 

I  love ,  on  mossy  ground , 

To  wake  some  native  strain , 

And  witness  at  the  sound 
Of  that  dear  air  again 

The  smiling  sister  band 

Extend  the  happy  hand , 

And  dance  the  saraband, 
The  saraband  of  Spain  ! 

But  most  of  all  love  I , 

When  breezy  night  recurs , 
To  answer  with  a  sigh , 

As  sighing  nature  stirs 
My  heart ,  by  sorrow  tri'd , 
And ,  gazing  on  the  tide , 
See  Dian  open  wide 

That  sifter  fan  of  her's  ! 


MONTESQUIEU* 


Atlieux  a   tin   ISiiisseau. 


Charmant  ruisseau !  vous  fuyez  cet  ombrage 
Et  ce  vallon ,  protege  par  les  cieux , 
Comme  si  Ton  pouvait  etre  ailleurs  plus  heureux. 
Vous  avez  tort  de  quitter  ce  bocage 

Et  ces  bords  paisibles  et  purs. 
Imprudent,  vous  courez  aux  cites  d'ou  j'arrive!.. 

Ah !  pendant  vos  succes  futurs , 

Vous  regretterez  cette  rive, 
Et  vos  rochers  deserts  et  vos  antres  obscurs. 

Sans  retour,  onde  fugitive  ! 
On  vous  voit  renoncer  a  des  charmes  si  doux ! 

Je  ne  ferai  pas  comme  vous. 


MONTESQUIEU- 


Farewell  to  a  Stream. 


Enchanting  stream !  and  is  it  thou  canst  flee 

The  soft  sweet  vale,  to  heaven  itself  so  dear? 
As  though  'twere  wise  of  one  so  blest  as  thee 

To  seek  for  joy  in  other  homes  than  here! 
These  peaceful  banks,  this  guileless  shade  to  leav: 

For  scenes ,  which  I  with  weary  spirit  shun , 
-Alas !  that  thou  shouldst  so  thyself  deceive 

As  quit  the  woods,  and  after  cities  run! 
But  go....  and  mourn,  in  pleasure's  mid  career, 

The  poor,  repairless  folly,  that  could  flee 
The  rock,  the  cave, — the  soft  sweet  valley  here, 
— Deluded  stream !  I  will  not  copy  thee. 


Fragment. 

— -oo- 

Quand  on  est  plein  de  jours ,  gaiment  on  les  prodigue  5 
Leur  Hot  bruyant  s'epanche  au  hasard  et  sans  digue ; 
C'est  une  source  vive ,  et  faite  pour  courir , 
Et  qu'aucune  chaleur  ne  doit  jamais  tarir. 
Pourtant  la  chaleur  vient ,  et  l'eau  coule  plus  rare  5 
La  source  baisse ,  alors  le  prodigue  est  avare ; 
Incline  vers  ses  jours  comme  vers  un  miroir, 
Dans  leur  onde  limpide  il  cherche  a  se  revoir ; 
Mais  en  tombant  deja  les  feuilles  1'ont  voilee, 
Et  l'ceil  n'y  peut  saisir  qu'une  image  troublee. 


5KLE2  di^t?SE©a  ©52  S2&&2S* 


Frasment. 


In  yeuth ,  the  full  of  years ,  how  riotously  gay 
The  overflowing  hours  at  random  roll  awayj 
-A  source  without  a  stop ,  that  thinks  to  ever  run , 
Unwasted  by  the  drouth ,  unminish'd  by  the  sun , 
Till  lo !  the  summer  burns,  and  then  the  gush  is  o'er, 
A  miser's  at  the  spring,  the  prodigal's  no  more, 
And ,  bending  to  the  glass , — the  mirror  of  his  days  , 
He  fixes  on  the  fount  his  melancholy  gaze, 
But  ah !  the  falling  leaves  so  trouble  it  with  care , 
His  eyes  can  only  see  a  wrinkled  image  there ! 


Mlle  WB  H9I1BBCCE17B. 


ffia  Feuille  fletrie. 


-<K>- 


Pourquoi  tomber  dejh,  feuille  jaune  et  fletrie? 

J'aimais  ton  doux  aspect  dans  ce  trisle  vallon. 
Dn  printemps ,  un  ete ,  furent  toute  ta  vie , 

Et  tu  vas  sommeiller  sur  le  pale  gazon ! 

Pauvre  feuille !  il  n'est  plus  le  temps ,  ou  ta  verdure 
Onibrageait  le  rameau ,  depouille  maintenant. 

Si  fraiche  au  mois  de  mai !  faut-il ,  que  la  froidure 
Te  laisse  encore  a  peine  un  incertain  moment? 

L'hiver,  saison  des  nuits,  s'avance  et  decolore 
Ce  qui  servait  d'asile  aux  habitans  des  cieux  : 

Tu  meurs ,  un  vent  du  soir  vient  t'embrasser  encore, 
Mais  ses  baisers  glaces  sont  pour  toi  des  adieus. 


fll,. 


Mue  DE  miECffiUB. 


The  withered  leaf. 


-oo- 


Already  shed ,  thou  yellow  leaf  forlorn ! 

That  servedst  once  to  deck  this  delly  scene? 
And  now , — thy  span  of  spring  and  summer  gone , — 

Thou  servs't  to  strew  its  sod  of  sickly  green ! 

Poor  wither'd  thing !  no  more  canst  thou  behold 
The  lime  when  thou  wast  young,  and  newly  drest. 

Thy  May  for  ever  fled ,  the  coming  cold 
But  lets  thee  sleep  one  hazard  hour  at  best ! 

Long-nighted  winter  is  at  hand  alas! 
To  spoil  the  wood ,  where  now  no  pigeons  coo  s 
-Tis  done !  the  gusts  of  dying  autumn  pass , 
And  bid  the  whirling  leaf  a  sad  adieu. 


ABH&UIjT, 


>sa  vas-iw?  an  Bss,  feuille  dctaehre. 


De  ta  tige  detachee , 
Pauvre  feuille  dessechee! 
Ou  vas-tu? — «  Je  n'en  sais  rien  ; 
«  L'orage  a  brise  le  chene, 
«  Qui  seul  etait  mon  soutien. 
«  De  son  incerlaine  haleine , 
«  Le  Zephyr  ou  l'Aquilon 
«  Depuis  ce  jour  me  promene 
«  De  la  foret  a  la  plaine , 
«  De  la  montagne  au  vallon. 
«  Cedant  au  vent,  qui  m'enlraine, 
«  Sans  me  pjaindre  ou  m'effrayer, 
«  Je  vais  ou  va  loule  chose , 
«  Ou  va  la  feuille  de  rose , 
«  Et  la  feuille  de  laurier.  » 


&% 


ABNAUIT. 


\\ 'hither  art  thou  going?  or  the  flyinji  SLeaE. 


Faded  leaf!  untimely  torn 

From  the  bough ,  where  thou  wast  born 
Whither  art  thou  going? — 
«  I  than  this  no  more  can  say , 
«  That  the  oak ,  my  only  stay , 
«.  Ravag'd  by  the  gusty  gale , 
k  Saw  me  flying  in  the  vale. 
«  Ever  since  that  helpless  hour, 
«  Bandi'd  by  their  common  pow'r 
«  From  the  forest,  hill,  and  plain, 
«  Here  and  there  and  back  again , 
«  Ne'er  have  I  a  moment's  rest 
«  From  the  north  wind  and  the  west ! 
«  Stranger  to  complaint  or  fear, 
«  Following  their  wild  career, 
k  Just  as  they  may  choose  to  roam  , 
«  To  the  universal  home , 
«  Where  the  leaves  of  roses  go , 
«  And  the  leaves  of  laurel  blow , 
«  Thither  am  I  going !  » 


AI>I!3£A27DHE  DUMAS. 


ILe  Sylplie. 


Je  suis  un  sylphe ,  une  ombre ,  un  rien  ,  un  reve , 

Hote  de  l'air,  esprit  myste'rieux , 
Leger  parfura,  que  le  zephyr  enleve, 

Anneau  vivant,  qui  joint  l'homme  et  les  dieux 

De  mon  corps  pur  les  rayons  diaphanes 
Flollent  meles  a  la  vapeur  du  soir ; 

Mais  je  me  cache  aux  regards  des  profanes , 
Et  l'ame  seule  en  songe  peut  me  voir. 

Rasant  du  lac  la  nappe  elincelante , 

D'un  vol  leger  j'effleure  les  roseaux ; 

Et ,  balance"  sur  mon  aile  brillante , 

Jaime  a  me  voir  dans  le  cristal  des  eaux. 

Dans  vos  jardins  quelquefois  je  vollige, 
Et,  m'enivrant  de  suaves  odeurs, 

Sans  que  mon  pied  fasse  incliner  leur  tige , 
Jc  me  suspends  au  calice  des  fleurs. 

Dans  vos  foyers  j'enlre  avec  confiance , 
Et ,  recreant  son  oeil ,  clos  a  demi , 

J'aime  a  vcrser  des  songes  d'innocence 
Sur  le  front  pur  d'un  enfant  endormi. 


ALE^vA^DBE  DUMAS, 


The  KylB»ii. 


A  vague ,  mysterious  spirit  of  the  air, — 

A  shadow  and  a  dream, — a  Sylph  am  I, — 

A  light  perfume,  away  the  zephyrs  bear, — 
A  living  link  between  the  earth  and  sky. 

Of  this  pure  form  the  soft ,  transparent  rays 
Attemper,  as  they  float,  the  mists  of  eve; 

But  e'er  I  shun  the  gross ,  material  gaze  : 

The  soul  alone  can  me  in  dreams  perceive. 

The  summer  lake  still  smoother,  as  I  brush 
Its  shining  surface  with  my  viewless  wing , 

I  love  to  balance  on  the  tallest  rush , 

And  see  my  own  sweet  image  as  I  swing. 

At  limes  I  flutter  in  your  early  bowers, 

Where  dewy  bines  their  luscious  odour  shed , 

And  set  my  momentary  foot  on  flowers, 

That  bloom  the  more,  but  never  bend  the  head. 

Your  hearths  I  haunt,  and  there  in  slumber  steep 
The  child  ,  that  nods  at  noon  upon  the  knee , 

And  gild  his  wonted  hour  of  rosy  sleep 
With  smiling  visions,  innocent  as  he 


—  78  — 

Lorsque  sur  vous  la  nuit  jette  son  voile , 

Je  glisse  aux  cieux  comme  un  long  Met  d'or 
Et  les  models  disent  :  «  C'est  une  eloile , 


«  Qui  d'un  ami  vous  presage  la  ntort !  » 


—  7.9  — 

The  night  retum'd ,  a  thread  of  glimpsy  gold , 
— A  running  spark, — I  glitter  and  ascend, 

And  mortals  cry  :  «  A  shooting-star  behold , 
«  The  mournful  presage  of  a  dying  friend  !  » 


JLe  i»iil  tie  Fauvctte. 


-oo- 

Je  lc  tiens ,  ce  nid  de  fauvelte ! 

lis  sont  deux ,  trois ,  quatre  pelits ! 
Depuis  si  long-lemps  je  vous  guette ; 

Pauvres  oiseaux ,  vous  voila  pris ! 
Criez ,  sifflez  ,  petits  rebelles  ! 

Debaltez-vous ;  oh !  c'est  eu  vain  : 
Vous  n'avez  pas  encore  d'ailes? 

Comment  vous  sauver  de  ma  main? 

Mais ,  quoi ,  n'entends-je  point  leur  mere . 

Qui  pousse  des  cris  douloureux? 
Oui ,  je  la  vois ;  oui ,  c'est  leur  pere , 

Qui  vient  voltiger  aupres  d'eux. 
Ah  !  pourrais-je  causer  leur  peine  , 

Moi !  qui  l'ete  dans  les  vallons 
Venais  m'endormir  sous  un  chene , 

Au  bruit  de  leurs  douces  chansons? 

Helas !  si  du  sein  de  ma  mere 

Un  mechant  venait  me  ravir, 
Je  le  sens  bien ,  dans  sa  misere , 

Elle  n'aurait  plus  qu'a  mourir. 
Et  je  serais  assez  barbare 

Pour  vous  arraeher  vos  enfans! 
Non,  non,  que  rien  ne  vous  separej 

Non ,  les  voici ,  je  vous  les  rends. 


BBRQUIiN, 


The  liiimet's  nest. 


-oo- 


I  have  it ,  the  nest  of  the  linnet ! 

The  prize  it  is...  two,  three,  and  four! 
How  long  have  I  wailed  to  win  it, 

And  wanted  to  lake  it  before ! — 
Ah!  struggle  and  cry,  as  ye  will, 

Little  rebels !  your  labour's  in  vain ; 
For  see,  ye  are  featherless  still, 

And  idle  it  is  to  complain. 

But  surely  the  mother  I  hear , 

Her  bosom  with  agony  wrung , 
-It  is  she !  and  the  father  is  near , 

Lamenting  the  loss  of  his  young! 
And  I,  then,  can  deal  'em  the  stroke, 

"Who  laid  me  in  summer  along, 
And  under  the  boughs  of  an  oak 

Fell  asleep  to  the  sound  of  their  song ! 

Alas !  should  a  kidnapper  come , 

And  rob  my  poor  mother  of  me , 
How  soon  would  she  sink  to  the  tomb ! 

How  wretched  my  father  would  be ! 
Yet  I  for  your  darlings  could  climb 

To  your  nest  in  a  barbarous  mood , 
-No,  no,  I  repent  me  in  time,.... 

There,  lake  back  your  innocent  brood. 


-  82  - 

Apprenez-leur  dans  le  bocage 

A  voltiger  aupres  de  votis ; 
Qu'ils  ecoutent  voire  raniage , 

Pour  former  des  sons  aussi  doux  , 
Et  inoi ,  dans  la  saison  prochaine  , 

Je  reviendrai  dans  les  vallons , 
Dorinir  quelquefois  sous  un  chene , 

Au  bruit  de  leurs  jeunes  chansons. 


Go ,  leach  'em  to  flutter  and  fly , 

As  ye  in  your  earliest  spring ; 
By  dulcet  degrees  by  and  bye 

Go ,  teach  'em  to  twitter  and  sing  ; 
And  [ ,  when  the  season  has  broke , 

"Will  lay  me  in  summer  along, 
And  under  the  boughs  of  an  oak 

Fall  asleep  to  the  sound  of  their  song ! 


ffOTESi 


(1)  —  (c  Tithon  n'a  plus  les  ans,  qui  le  firent  cigale , 
«  Et  Pluton  aujourd'hui , 
v.  Sans  egard  du  passe ,  les  mc'rites  igale 
«  D' Archemore  et  de  lui.  » 

«  Tithonus,  a  son  of  Laomedon,  king  of  Troy,  having  begged  of  Aurora  (  who 
«  was  enamoured  of  him,  and  by  whom  he  was  father  of  Memnon,)  the  gift  of 
«  immortality,  forgetting  to  ask  the  youth  and  vigour,  which  he  then  enjoyed, 
«  soon  became  old,  decrepid,  and  infirm.  Finding  life  insupportable,  he  prayed 
«  Aurora  to  remove  him  from  the  world.  As  he  could  not  die ,  the  goddess  changed 
«  him ,  lank  and  lean  as  he  was ,  into  a  grasshopper.  » 

Lempriere. 

*** 
«  Archemorus,  son  of  Lycurgus,  king  of  Nemiea,  in  Thrace,  by  Eurydice,  was 

«  brought  up  by  Hypsipyle,  queen  of  Lemnos,  who  had  fled  to  Thrace,  and  was 

«  employed  as  a  nurse  in  the  king's  family.  Hypsipyle  was  met  by  the  army  of 

«  Adrastus,  who  was  going  against  Thrace;  and  she  was  forced  to  show  them  a 

«  fountain  where  they  might  quench  their  thirst.  To  do  this  the  more  expeditiously, 

«  she  put  down  the  child  upon  the  grass ,  and ,  at  her  return ,  found  him  killed 

«  by  a  serpent.  The  Greeks  were  so  afflicted  at  the  circumstance,  that  they  instituted 

«  games  in  honour  of  Archemorus,  which  were  called  Nemaan.  » 

Idem. 

(2)  —  «  Mais  d'etre  inconsolable,  et  dedans  sa  memoire 
«  Enfermer  un  ennui, 
«  Ti'est-ce  pas  se  hair  pour  acqu4rir  la  gloire 
«  De  Men  aimer  autrui?  » 

Here ,  in  the  original ,  succeed  four  stanzas ,  which  I  have  forborne  to  translate , 
inasmuch  as  they  instantly  struck  me,  — as  they  strike  me  still,  — as  being  too 


-  86  — 

forced  and  too  frigid  to  accompany  the  rest.  The  reader  may  judge  for  himself  of 
the  correctness  or  the  incorrectness  of  my  impression ,  since  void  les  strophes  : 
«  Priam,  qui  vit  ses  Ills  abattus  par  Achille, 

«  Denue  de  support, 
«  Et  hors  de  tout  espoir  du  salut  de  sa  ville, 

«  Recut  du  reconfort. 
«  Francois,  quand  la  Castille,  inegale  a  ses  armes, 

«  Lui  vola  son  Dauphin, 
«  Sembla  d'un  si  grand  coup  devoir  jeter  des  larmes, 

«  Qui  n'eussent  jamais  fin. 
b  II  les  secha  pourtant,  et,  comme  un  autre  Alcide, 

(i  Contre  fortune  instruit, 
«  Fit,  qu'a  ses  ennemis  d'un  acte  si  perfide 

«  La  honte  fut  le  fruit. 
«  Leur  camp,  que  la  Durance  avoit  presque  tarie 

«  De  bataillons  £pais, 
«  Entendant  sa  Constance,  eut  peur  de  sa  furie, 

«  Et  demanda  la  paix.  » 

N.  B.  The  two  or  three  instances  of  antique  spelling  and  phraseology ,  which  occur 
in  this  celebrated  piece  of  consolation  of  Malherbe's ,  are  at  once  accounted  for  by  the 
fact  of  its  having  been  written  so  far  back  as  1599. 

(3)  —  «  Le  pauvre  en  sa  cabane,  oil  le  chaume  le  couvre, 

«  Est  svjet  a  ses  lois , 
«  Et  la  garde ,  qui  veille  aux  barrieres  du  Louvre , 
«  iV'era  defend  point  nos  rois.  » 

Is  it  necessary  to  quote  Horace? 

«  Mors  ocquo  pulsat  pede  pauperum  tabernas , 
«  Regumque  turres.  » 

(4)  —  <c  Oil  de  ccs  arbres ,  dont  expres, 

«  Pour  un  doux  et  plus  long  usage , 
«  Mes  mains  ornerent  ce  bocage, 
«  Nul  ne  me  suivra  qu'un  cypres.  » 

It  is ,  I  think ,  in  the  Introduction  to  his  Me'moires  d'outre-tombe ,  that  Chateau- 
briand has  copied  this  idea  from  the  amiable  and  elegant  Chaulieu,  who,  by  the 
way , — the  delight  of  the  most  recherches  salons  of  Paris ,  and  the  beloved  of  either 
sex ,  —  was  affectionately  addressed  by  Voltaire  as  «  mon  pere ,  »  both  poetically 
and  personally. 


—  «/  — 

{5;  —  <(  Pow  vous  I'amante  de  Ccphale 
«  Enrichit  Flore  de  ses  pleurs  :  » 
Ccphalus,  the  husband  of  Procris,  was  loved  by  Aurora  without  return. 

(6)  —  k  La  Naissance  de  la  Rose.  » 
In  rendering  the  classic  verses  of  Parny.  I  have,  as  the  reader  must  have  re- 
marked, made  somewhat  ornately  free  with  the  original.  To  tell  the  truth,  the 
temptation  proved  irresistible,  though,  possibly,  I  had  better  have  left  well  alone, 
instead  of  risking  the  mischance  of  an  honest  yeoman  of  my  native  county,  who, 
as  I  have  heard  my  father  say,  lost  a  nice  little  reputation  for  singing  «  The  Men 
«  of  Kent,  »  because,  in  an  evil  hour,  he  took  to  flourishing! 

(7)  ■ —  <c  Les  derniers  moments  d'un  jeune  poete.  » 

Gilbert, — poor  Gilbert, — at  once  the  Juvenal  and  the  Chatterton  of  France, —  a 
satirist  and  a  suicide, —  died,  at  the  early  age  of  twenty-eight,  in  a  common  hospital 
at  Paris ,  from  having ,  in  a  fit  of  phrenzy ,  swallowed  the  key  of  his  secretary.  His 
nervous,  though  rugged  lines  were  directed  against  the  clique  of  the  Encyclopedia-ists, 
whom  Voltaire  ridiculed,  (and  himself  too  for  having  assisted  them;  uj'etais  autre- 
ujois  un  des  (/argons  de  cette  grande  boutique-la,  »  )  and  from  whom  Jean  Jacques  so 
soon  seceded  in  disgust.  A  garbled  edition  of  Gilbert's  satires,  it  appears,  had,  from 
malice  prepense,  been  passed  off  for  his;  as  was  afterwards  the  case,  according 
to  the  correspondence  of  the  Wit  of  Ferney,  with  the  notorious  poem  of  La  Pucelle. 
But  be  that  as  it  may,  the  last  hours  of  poor  young  Gilbert  were  clouded  by  contumely 
and  neglect,  by  penury,  insanity,  and  pain.  The  stanzas  in  question  were  composed 
a  fortnight  before  his  death  :  that  they  were  written  in  an  evident  slate  of  cerebral 
excitement  only  adds  to  the  deep  pathos  of  them.  The  whole  range  of  literary 
anecdote — of  literary  misery — has  certainly  nothing  more  touching  than  his  melan- 
choly and  untimely  end,  not  excepting  even  the  early  garret  death-beds  of  Thomas 
Otway,  Thomas  Dermody,  and  Thomas  Chatterton,  who  died  of  utter  destitution 
at  the  respective  ages  of  thirty-four,  twenty-one,  and  eighteen.  «  The  fatal  gift 
«  of  beauty  »  alas !  is  surely  matched  by  the  fatal  one  of  genius ! 

(8)  —  «  La  Jeune  Captive.  » 

M,u  de  Coigny,  thus  handed  down  to  immortality  by  the  heart  of  youth  and  the 
pen  of  genius,  was  cousin  to  the  ill-fated  Duchesse  de  Praslin's  mother,  lady  of 
M.  le  Marechal  Sebastiani. 

(9)  —  «  Combien  j'ai  douce  souvenance 

«  Du  joli  lieu  de  ma  naissance ,  »  etc. 
If  the  reader  supposes,  that  I  consider  myself  to  have  adequately  rendered  the 
delicious  chansonnette  of  Chateaubriand,  he  is  as  much  in  error  as  I  should  be. 


—  88  — 

On  the  contrary ,  I  consider  the  collocation  of  words  in  the  original  too  simply 
felicitous  and  too  felicitously  simple  to  admit  of  an  equal  translation, — at  least  by  me. 
There,  as  in  the  other  pieces,  1  have  done  my  best,  and  that  is  all,  that  I  can  say- 
about  it. 

And  now  of  the  little  song  itself,  which  occurs  in  the  choice  and  enchanting  tale  of 
«  Le  Dernier  des  Abencerrages ,  »  where  it  is  sung ,  with  affecting  fitness ,  by  a 
Frenchman  in  a  foreign  land. 

a  Le  Montagnard  emigre  »  —  that  touching  bit  of  thorough  Breton ,  with  its  Swiss- 
like yearning  after  the  old  haunts  and  the  old  hills, — is  set  to  an  air,  as  simply 
happy  as  itself ;  nor  do  I  recollect,  though  the  native  of  another  clime,  experiencing 
a  purer  pleasure ,  in  its  way ,  than  the  hearing  of  it  warbled  forth  at  Quimper  by 
Mr  Paul  Boulle ,  who ,  like  his  elder  brother,  Mr  Germain ,  is  an  amateur  singer 
of  the  highest  order.  To  the  latter  gentleman  (  whose  musical  talents  are  only  matched 
by  his  literary  acquirements)  we  are  more  especially  indebted  —  my  daughter  and 
I  —  for  many  and  many  a  vocal  treat,  of  which  they  alone  can  duly  judge,  who 
have  heard  him  sing  ( and  it  is  singing ! )  the  sublimities  of  Schubert  and  Beethoven 
with  one  of  the  rarest  voices  of  the  day. 

Let  me  be  allowed  a  passing  word  on  a  humanizing  Art ,  upon  which ,  as  on 
a  pivot,  the  whole  Bepublic  of  Plato  (the  pupil,  par  excellence,  of  Socrates,  «  Athena's 
<c  wisest  son,  »  )  is,  in  almost  every  book  of  the  work,  made  to  turn.  The  allegoric 
achievements  of  Orpheus,  in  the  wilds  of  Thrace,  should  be  borne  in  mind  as  well. 

When  two  such  men ,  as  Villemain  and  Lamartine ,  in  two  such  works ,  as  « Le 
«  Tableau  Litteraire  du  XVIIImc  Siecle  »  and  «  L'Histoire  des  Girondins ,  »  speak  of 
Music,  as  a  the  least  intellectual  of  the  Arts,»  we  are  bound,  of  course,  to  incline 
a  serious  ear;  but  theu  such  a  pair,  as  Handel  and  Mozart,  are  a  host  in  the 
opposite  camp.  «  Nos  duo  turba  sumus.  » — «  Laughter,  holding  both  his  sides  »  at 
the  brain-fraught  buffo-ism  of  Lablache,  and  Feeling,  shedding  helpless  tears  at 
the  scientific  pathos  of  Bubini ,  are  surely  something  too.  Like  the  lilies  of  the 
field,  which  « toil  not,  neither  do  they  spin,»  the  notes  of  the  nightingale  are  fine 
without  effort ;  yet  what  have  Architecture ,  Sculpture ,  Painting ,  and  even  Poetry 
itself,  I  ask,  ever  produced  to  excite  the  same  universal  emotion,  as  those  simple 
and  affecting  sounds,  which  have  sunk  into  the  soul  of  man  from  the  opening 
hours  of  Paradise ,  and ,  gentle  as  the  dew ,  dropt  upon  the  hearts  of  rich  and  poor, 
long  before  the  days  of  Boaz  and  of  Ruth?  The  reader,  recalling  St.  Peter's  and 
the  Parthenon,  the  Venus  de  Medicis  and  The  dying  Gladiator,  The  Last  Supper 
and  The  Descent  from  the  Cross ,  Othello  and  Andromache ,  will  smile  at  the  question. 
Be  it  so;  but  let  him  answer  me  another.  Who  was  it,  «  in  all  his  glory,  »  that 
was  not  equal  to  a  lily  of  the  field? 

No  foreign  poet ,  perhaps ,  has  met  with  so  much  favour  in  the  every-way  great 
country ,  of  which  Mr  de  Lamartine  is  so  distinguished  an  ornament ,  as  the  author 


—  sn  — 

of  uThe  Seasons. »  Well,  what  was  the  prime  pleasure  of  Thomson?  Why,  to  sit, 
of  a  soft  May  night,  at  the  window  of  his  little  parlour  at  Richmond,  and  listen 
to  the  Surrey  nightingales!  *  As  to  whether  that  pleasure  was  intellectual  or  no, 
nobody  can  form  a  better  idea  than  the  author  of  uLes  Meditations, » — Mr  de  Lamartine 
himself.  Milton ,  again ,  when ,  «  fallen  on  evil  tongues  and  evil  times ,  »  he  had 
retired  into  private  life,  and  devoted  the  obscure  remainder  of  it  to  the  composition 
of  «  a  something,  which  the  world  would  not  willingly  let  die,  »  was  in  the  habit 
of  raising,  in  the  early  morn,  his  inspired,  though  sightless  looks  to  heaven  at  the 
pealing  tones  of  an  organ,  finding,  that  Music  («  the  least  intellectual  of  the  Arts»  ) 
attuned  to  «  harmony,  to  holy  harmony,  »  not  only  the  outward  ear,  but  the  inward 
spirit  of  the  sublimest  and  most  sacred  poet ,  that  the  earth  has  seen ,  since  Judah 
hearkened  to  the  lyre  of  David,  and  melted  at  'The  Song  of  Solomon.'  f 
But  to  revert  to  «  Le  Montagnard  emigre  »  and  his  local  associations. 
Though  Chateaubriand  was  actually  bora  at  St.  Malo ,  the  family-seat  was  at 
Combourg,  a  few  miles  off,  and  there  it  was,  that  his  earlier  days  were  pretty 
much  spent.  For  purposes,  connected  with  my  little  soi-disant  translation,  I  re- 
visited the  Chateau ,  about  six  weeks  ago ,  accompanied  by  two  or  three  friends , 
who  will  scarcely  forget  the  pleasant  afternoon,  which  we  passed  together  in  its  long 
wainscoated  old  hall ,  commanding  a  fine  view  of  the  adjoining  tranquil  lake,  with 
its  rushes ,  bended  by  the  zephyr,  its  surface ,  sivallow-skimmed ,  and  burnished  by 
the  setting  sun.  ( To  Nature  eighty  years  are  but  as  yesterday ! )  So  far,  so  good ; 
but  where  is  acette  tant  vieille  tour  du  Maure?»  fallen,  if,  indeed,  it  ever  existed. 
I  found  nobody  to  answer  the  question.  Again,  «  La  Dore,  » — what  or  where  is 
that  ?  perhaps  the  little  issue  of  the  lake ,  which ,  running  under  the  road ,  imme- 
diately afterwards  turns  the  wheel  of  a  corn-mill,  and  then  winds  away  through 
a  flat  but  well- wooded  country ,  the  resort  of  snipes  and  woodcocks ,  far  more  likely, 
be  it  deferentially  said ,  to  form  a  good  shot  than  a  great  poet.  §  But  the  mind 
is  its  own  place.    «  3Ja  sceur  »   was  his  favorite  sister ,  Lucille.    «  Mon  Helene  » 
(as  I  learn  indirectly  from  a  connexion  of  the  author's)  was  a  young  and  handsome 
English  girl,  probably  en  visite  at  the  Chateau,  the  prime  features  of  which  are 
the  old  flight  of  steps,  leading  to  it  from  the  spacious  grassy  court-yard,  and  the 
old  round  towers,  especially  as  they  are  seen  from  the  borders  of  the  lake.  The  interior, 
for  the  most  part ,  is  gloomy  and  ill-arranged ;  nevertheless ,  independent  even  of 
its  recent  associations,  it  is,  upon  the  whole,  a  fine  poetic  object,  —  Le  Chateau 

*  It  is  to  be  noted,  too,  that,  in  writing  of  the  nightingale,  the  very  greatest  poets  have  never 
failed  to  do  belter  even,  and  that  the  meanest,  in  treating  that  enkindling  subject,  have  invariably 
done  well. 

f  Id  est ,  not  selling  down  the  prophets  as  poets.  But  am  I  justified  in  so  doing  ?  the  choir 
of  a  cathedral,  at  anthem-lime,  would  certainly  answer  —  no. 

§  The  prose  of  Chateaubriand  is  poetry. 


—  90  — 

de  Combourg, — which  always  ought  to,  and  always  will,  be  visited  by  such  ap- 
preciating minds ,  as  venerate  the  name  of  Byron  in  Newstead ,  and  in  Abbotsford 
the  fame  of  Scott. 

(10)  —  «  Les  Hirondelles.  » 

The  idea  of  this  charming  song  of  Beranger's  is  clearly  traceable  to  the  following 
passage  in  «  Les  Martyrs  »  : 

(i  Avions-nous  besoin  des  fables  d'Alcyon  et  de  Ceyx  pour  trouver  des  rapports 
a  attendrissans  entre  les  oiseaux,  qui  passent  sur  les  mers,  et  nos  destinees?  En 
»  voyant  se  suspendre  a  nos  mats  des  hirondelles  fatiguees,  nous  etions  tentes  de 
»  les  interroger  touchant  notre  patrie.  Elles  avaient  peut-etre  voltige  autour  de  notre 
«  demeure ,  et  suspendu  lexirs  nids  a  notre  toit.  » 

Livre  XI. 

To  whichever  of  my  readers  may  have  perused  ( and  which  of  them  has  not  ? ) 
Madame  de  StaeTs  Corinne  and  her  touching  eulogy  of  the  word  home,  ( like  comfort , 
so  essentially  English , )  I  offer  no  apologies  for  having ,  in  partial  disregard  of  the 
original  text,  made  it  the  burden  of  the  last  line  of  each  stanza  of  my  translation. 
Tbe  word ,  like  the  thing ,  comprises  every  local  recollection ,  and  is ,  in  short ,  the 
compendium  of  the  memory,  when,  in  absence,  it  reverts  to  —  home. 

I  cite  the  passage  of  Corinne,  above  alluded  to,  merely  premising,  that  the  unin- 
terrupted peace  of  three  and  thirty  years  and  the  long  residence  of  so  many  of  my 
countrymen  on  the  Continent  must,  now-a-days,  call  for  a  considerable  modification 
of  Madame  de  StaeTs  assertion  : 

((  C'est  en  vain ,  qu'un  Anglais  se  plait  un  moment  aux  moeurs  etrangeres  :  son 
«  cceur  revient  toujours  aux  premieres  impressions  de  sa  vie.  Si  vous  interrogez 
«  des  Anglais  voguant  sur  un  vaisseau ,  a  I'extremite  du  monde ,  et  que  vous  Ieur 
«  demandiez  oil  ils  vont ,  ils  vous  repondront  :  home ,  (  chez  nous ,  )  si  c'est  en 
«  Angleterre ,  qu'ils  retournent.  Leurs  vceux ,  leurs  sentimens ,  a  quelque  distance 
«  qu'ils  soient  de  leur  patrie ,  sont  toujours  tournes  vers  elle.  » 

Livre  II.  ch.  m. 

(11)  —  «  Smyrne ,  ou  la  Captive  Espagnole.  » 

After  the  particular  mention  of  «  Smyrne,  »  and  the  expression,  uj'aime  dire  un 
«  air  espagnol,  »  which  occur  in  these  very  graceful  lines  of  Mr  Victor  Hugo's,  I  am 
surely  warranted  in  heading  them  as  1  have  done.  But  what  business  have  Elephants 
and  palanquins  and  palm-trees  in  the  Levant?  Is  it,  then,  a  mere  flying  description 
of  the  East ,  that  «  La  Captive  »  is  giving  us  ? 

(12)  —  «  Le  sabre  des  Spahis.  » 
Hope's  Anastatius  using  indifferently,  and  almost  in  the  same  sentence,  the  words 
yatagan ,  sabre ,  and  sword ,  I  have  employed  the  one  of  the  three ,  which  suited 


—  91  — 

me  best,  k  The  Spahees  »  ( to  cite  a  note  of  the  Greek  Gil  Bias )  «  are  Turkish  holders 
n  of  military  fiefs ,  which  oblige  them  to  join  the  army  at  their  own  expence.   » 

(13)  —  (c  Je  ne  suis  point  Tar  tare , 
«  Pour  qu'un  eunuque  noir 
«  M'accordc  ma  guitar  e , 

«  Me  tienne  mon  miroir ,  »  etc. 
As  «  La  Captive,  »  who  has  clearly  no  wish  to  have  a  Turk  of  a  husband,  could 
not ,  without  awaking  a  smile ,  tell  us  in  English ,  that  she  isn't  a  Tartar,  I  have 
called  to  my  assistance  the  capital  of  a  kingdom  ( strictly  Bokhara )  of  one  of  the 
divisions  of  that  extensive  country. 

(14J  —  «  Au  pays,  dont  nous  sommes , 
«  Avec  les  jeunes  hommes 
v.  On  peut  parler  le  soir.  » 

In  the  sultry  climates  of  Spain  and  Italy,  etc.  le  beau  monde  rarely  venture  out  of 
doors  before  sunset.  Brydone,  in  his  well-known  «  Tour,  »  speaks,  with  great  gusto, 
of  the  moonlight  airings  at  Palermo.  The  following  extract  from  an  account  of  the 
South-American  city  of  Mendoza,  as  given  by  Captain  (now  Sir  Francis)  Head,  in 
the  « Rough  notes  »  of  his  far  rougher  rides  across  The  Pampas ,  will ,  I  am  sure , 
be  read  with  pleasure  : 

«  The  women,  in  the  day,  are  only  seen  sitting  at  their  windows,  in  complete  dis- 
habille, but,  in  the  evening,  they  come  upon  the  Alameda,  dressed  with  much  taste,  in 
evening  dresses  and  low  gowns,  and  completely  in  the  costume  of  London  or  Paris. 
The  manner,  in  which  all  the  people  seem  to  associate  together,  shows  a  great  deal 
of  good  feeling  and  fellowship ,  and  I  certainly  never  saw  less  apparent  jealousy  in 
any  place. 

«  The  inhabitants,  however,  are  sadly  indolent.  A  little  after  eleven  o'clock  in  the 
morning,  the  shop-keepers  make  preparations  for  the  siesta;  they  begin  to  yawn 
a  little,  and  slowly  to  put  back  the  articles,  which  they  have,  during  the  morning, 
displayed  on  their  tables.  About  a  quarter  before  twelve,  they  shut  up  the  shops, 
the  window-shutters  throughout  the  town  are  closed  ,  or  nearly  so  ,  and  no  individual 
is  to  be  seen  until  five,  and  sometimes  until  six,  o'clock  in  the  evening. 

«  During  this  time ,  1  used  generally  to  walk  about  the  town  to  make  a  few  ob- 
servations. It  was  really  singular  to  stand  at  the  corner  of  the  right-angle  streets , 
and ,  in  every  direction ,  to  find  such  perfect  solitude  in  the  middle  of  the  capital  of 
a  province.  The  noise,  occasioned  by  walking,  was  like  the  echo,  which  is  heard  in 
pacing  by  oneself  up  the  long  aisle  of  a  church  or  cathedral ,  and  the  scene  reminded 
me  of  the  deserted  streets  of  Pompeii. 

«  In  passing  some  of  the  houses,  I  often  heard  people  snoring,  and,  when  the  siesta 


—  92  — 

was  over,  I  was  frequently  much  amused  at  seeing  them  wake  up-,  for  there  is 
infinitely  more  truth  and  pleasure  in  thus  looking  behind  the  scenes  of  private  life , 
than  in  making  formal  observations  on  man,  when  dressed  and  disguised  for  his 
public  performance.  They  generally  lie  on  the  ground  or  floor  of  the  room,  and 
the  group  is  often  amusing. 

«  I  saw ,  one  day ,  an  old  man  ( one  of  the  principal  folks  of  the  town )  fast 
asleep  and  happy.  The  old  woman,  his  wife,  was  awake,  and  sitting  up  in  easy 
dishabille,  yawning  with  all  her  might,  while  her  daughter,  a  very  pretty-looking 
girl  of  about  seventeen ,  was  also  awake ,  lying  on  her  side ,  and  kissing  a  cat. 

((  In  the  evening,  the  scene  begins  to  revive.  The  shops  are  opened;  a  number  of 
loads  of  grass  are  seen  walking  about  the  streets;  for  the  horse,  that  is  carrying 
them,  is  completely  hid.  Behind  the  load,  a  boy  stands  on  the  extremity  of  the  back; 
and,  to  mount  and  dismount,  he  climbs  up  by  the  animal's  tail.  A  few  Gauchos  are 
riding  about ,  selling  fruit ;  and  a  beggar  on  horseback  is  occasionally  seen ,  with 
his  hat  in  his  hand,  singing  a  psalm  in  a  melancholy  tone. 

«  As  soon  as  the  sun  has  set ,  the  Alameda  is  crowded  with  people ,  and  the  scene 
is  very  singular  and  interesting.  The  men  are  sitting  at  tables,  either  smoking  segars 
or  eating  ices,  and  the  ladies  are  on  the  mud  benches,  which  are  on  both  sides  of 
the  Alameda.  This  Alameda  is  a  walk  nearly  a  mile  long,  between  two  rows  of 
tall  poplars  :  on  one  side  of  it  are  the  gardenwalls  of  the  town ,  concealed  by  roses 
and  shrubs,  and  on  the  other  the  stream  of  water,  which  supplies  the  town.  » 

(15)  —  «  Pourtant  j'aime  une  rive, 

«  Oil  jamais  des  hivers 
«  Le  souffle  froid  n'arrive 
«  Par  les  vitraux  ouverts.  » 
«  The  climate  is  delightful  in  the  extremest  degree.  I  am  now  sitting ,  this  present 
4"'  of  January,  with  the  windows  open,  enjoying  the  warm  shine  of  the  sun;  and 
my  chamber  is  set  out  with  carnations,  roses,  and  jonquils,  fresh  fronfmy  garden.  » 
Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu's  «  Letters  from  Constantinople. » 

(16)  —  «  L'insecte  vert,  qui  rode, 

«  Luit ,  vivante  emcraude , 
«  Sous  les  brins  d' her  be  verts.  » 
This  beautiful  little  lamp  of  nature  has  met  with  a  description  from  the  graphic 
pen  of  Mr  Henry  Nelson  Coleridge ,  almost  as  beautiful  as  itself  : 

u  As  I  gazed ,  the  air  burst  into  atoms  of  green  fire  before  my  face ,  and ,  in  an 
instant ,  they  were  gone ;  I  turned  round ,  and  saw  all  the  woods  upon  the  moun- 
tains illuminated  with  ten  thousands  of  flaming  torches  moving  in  every  direction , 
now  rising,  now  falling,  vanishing  here,  re-appearing  there,  converging  to  a  globe, 


—  93  — 

and  dispersing  in  spangles.  No  man  can  conceive  from  dry  description  alone  the 
magical  beauty  of  these  glorious  creatures;  so  far  from  their  effect  having  been 
exaggerated  by  travellers,  I  can  say,  that  I  never  read  an  account  in  prose  or  verse, 
which  in  the  least  prepared  me  for  the  reality. 

«  There  are  two  sorts ,  the  small  fly,  which  flits  in  and  out  in  the  air,  the  body 
of  which  I  have  never  examined ;  and  a  kind  of  beetle ,  which  keeps  more  to  the 
woods,  and  is  somewhat  more  stationary,  like  our  glow-worm.  This  last  has  two 
broad  eyes  on  the  back  of  its  head,  which,  when  the  phosphorescent  energy  is 
not  exerted ,  are  of  a  dull  parchment  hue ,  but ,  upon  the  animal's  being  touched , 
shoot  forth  two  streams  of  green  light ,  as  intense  as  the  purest  gas.  But  the  chief 
source  of  splendor  is  a  cleft  in  the  belly,  through  which  the  whole  interior  of  the 
beetle  appears  like  a  red  hot  furnace.  I  put  one  of  these  natural  lamps  under  a  wine- 
glass in  my  bedroom  in  Trinidad ,  and ,  in  order  to  verify  some  accounts ,  which  I 
have  heard  doubted,  1  ascertained  the  hour  on  my  watch  by  its  light  alone  with 
the  utmost  facility.  »  * 

(17)  —  <(  Smyrne  est  une  princessc 

«  Avec  son  beau  chapel ; 
<(  L'heureux  printemps  sans  cesse 

«  Bepond  a  son  appel , 
«  Et ,  comme  un  riant  grovpe 
«  Be  fleurs  dans  une  coupe , 
«  Dans  ses  mers  se  de'cotipe 

«  Plus  d'un  frais  archipel.  » 

Fancy  the  Lisbon  of  Asia  Minor!  Smyrna  (190  miles  south  of  Constantinople, 
where  Lord  Byron  said  he  could  live  for  ever,  )  lies ,  due  west ,  on  the  very  shore 
of  the  Mediterranean  ,  beset  with  the  islands  of  the  Levant ,  and  with  the  Ionian 
ones  at  no  great  distance ,  quite  authorizing  the  happy  floral  and  poetic  figure  of 
the  French  stanza. 

(18)  —  «  Taime  ces  tours  vermeilles, 

«  Ces  drapeaux  triornphants , 
((  Ces  maisons  d'or,  pareilles 
((  A  des  jouels  d'enfans.  » 

If  «  La  Captive  »  be  here  talking  of  Smyrna ,  she  is  also  talking  of  Constantinople , 
which,  as  the  Capital  of  Turkey,  would  naturally  give  its  architectural  and  general 
tone  to  the  former.  Now,  of  Constantinople  there  are  many  excellent  descriptions  by 

'  In  Port  of  Spain  ihey  tell  a  story  of  a  lady  appearing  at  a  ball  in  a  black  silk  gown  with  a  splendid 
trimming  of  lire-flies.  I  forget  whether  the  poor  things  were  strung  through ,  like  cockchafers ,  to  keep 
them  in  spirits. 


—  94  — 

travellers,  though  none,  possibly,  to  surpass  what  was  respectively  said  of  it  by  two 
authors,  who  were  never  there, —  Gibbon  and  Voltaire.  That  of  Hope's  Anastatius  is 
briefly  beautiful  :  Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu's  is  manifold,  owing  to  the  numerous 
parties,  to  whom  she  wrote  about  it,  during  her  twelvemonth's  residence  therein. 
*  From  her  justly  celebrated  letters  it  is,  that  I  am  about  to  draw  pretty  largely, 
fearing  nothing  from  the  ennui  of  the  reader  : 

«  And  indeed  the  pleasure  of  going  in  a  barge  to  Chelsea  is  not  comparable  to 
that  of  rowing  upon  the  canal  of  the  sea  here ,  where ,  for  twenty  miles  together 
down  the  Bosphorus,  the  most  beautiful  variety  of  prospects  present  themselves. 
The  Asian  side  is  covered  with  fruit-trees,  villages,  and  the  most  delightful  landscapes 
in  nature ;  on  the  European ,  stands  Constantinople ,  situated  on  seven  hills.  The 
unequal  heights  make  it  seem  as  large  again  as  it  is ,  ( though  one  of  the  largest 
cities  in  the  world,)  showing  an  agreeable  mixture  of  gardens,  pine,  and  cypress- 
trees  ,  palaces ,  mosques ,  and  public  buildings ,  raised  one  above  another,  with  as 
much  beauty  and  symmetry  as  your  ladyship  ever  saw  in  a  cabinet,  adorned  by 
the  most  skilful  hands  ,  where  jars  show  themselves  above  jars,  mixed  with  canisters, 
babies,  and  candlesticks.  This  is  a  very  odd  comparison;  but  it  gives  me  an  exact 
idea  of  the  thing.  » 

«  I  had  found  so  little  diversion  in  the  Vizier's  harem ,  that  I  had  no  mind  to 
go  into  another.  But  her  importunity  prevailed  with  me,  and  1  am  extremely  glad 
I  was  so  complaisant.  All  things  here  were  with  quite  another  air  than  at  the  Grand- 
Vizier's  ;  and  the  very  house  confessed  the  difference  between  an  old  devotee  and  a 
young  beauty.  It  was  nicely  clean  and  magnificent.  1  was  met  at  the  door  by  two  black 
eunuchs ,  who  led  me  through  a  long  gallery  between  two  ranks  of  beautiful  young 
girls,  with  their  hair  finely  plaited,  almost  hanging  to  their  feet,  all  dressed  in 
fine  light  damasks,  brocaded  with  silver.  I  am  sorry,  that  good  manners  did  not 
permit  me  to  stop  to  consider  them  nearer.  But  that  thought  was  lost  upon  my  entrance 
into  a  large  room  or  rather  pavilion,  built  round  with  gilded  sashes,  which  were  most 
of  them  thrown  up;  and  the  trees,  planted  near  them,  gave  an  agreeable  shade,  which 
hindered  the  sun  from  being  troublesome.  The  jessamines  and  honeysuckles,  that 
twisted  round  their  trunks ,  shed  a  soft  perfume  ,  increased  by  a  white  marble  fountain 
playing  sweet  water  in  the  lower  part  of  the  room ,  which  fell  into  three  or  four  basins 
with  a  pleasing  sound.  The  roof  was  painted  with  all  sorts  of  flowers ,  falling  out  of 
gilded  baskets,  that  seemed  tumbling  down.  On  a  sofa,  raised  three  steps,  and  covered 
with  fine  Persian  carpets,  sat  the  kiyaya's  lady,  leaning  on  cushions  of  white  satin, 
embroidered ;  and  at  her  feet  sat  two  young  girls  about  twelve  years  old ,  lovely  as 
angels ,  dressed  perfectly  rich  ,  and  almost  covered  with  jewels.  But  they  were  hardly 

*  The  highest  compliment  ever  paid  to  those  charming  compositions  —  remarquable,  as  they  are, 
for  their  ease  and  grace,  Iheir  wit  and  point,  — is  surely  to  be  found  in  the  pages  of  Don  Juan  , 
where  his  Lordship  has  borrowed  from  them  again  and  again. 


—  95  — 

seen  near  the  fair  Fatima ,  so  much  her  beauty  effaced  every  thing  I  have  seen  in  En- 
gland or  Germany.  1  must  own,  that  I  never  saw  any  thing  so  gloriously  beautiful.  » 

(19)  —  «  Et  la  cicogne  blanche.  » 

«  Here  are  some  little  birds  held  in  a  sort  of  religious  reverence ,  and ,  for  that 
reason ,  multiply  prodigiously  :  turtles ,  on  account  of  their  innocence ;  and  storks , 
because  they  are  supposed  to  make,  every  winter,  the  pilgrimage  to  Mecca.  To  say 
truth ,  they  are  the  happiest  subjects  under  the  Turkish  government ,  and  are  so 
sensible  of  their  privileges ,  that  they  walk  the  streets  without  fear ,  and  generally 
build  in  the  low  parts  of  houses.  Happy  are  those ,  whose  houses  are  so  distinguished , 
as  the  vulgar  Turks  are  perfectly  persuaded ,  that  they  will  not  be  that  year  attacked 
either  by  fire  or  pestilence.  I  have  the  happiness  of  one  of  their  sacred  nests  under 
my  chamber-window.  » 

(i0)  —  «  J'aime  en  un  lit  de  mousses 

«  Dire  un  air  espagnol, 
«  Quand  mes  compagnes  douces, 

«   Du  pied  rasant  le  sol, 
«  Legion  vagabonde, 
«  Oil  le  sourire  abonde , 
«  Font  tournoyer  leur  ronde 

((  Sous  un  rond  parasol.  » 

Presuming  «  mes  compagnes  douces  »  to  be  compatriots  of  «  La  Captive , »  I  have 
made  them  dance  the  lively  saraband ,  which ,  I  trust ,  will  be  deemed  no  unwelcome 
substitute  for  the  cfont  tournoyer  leur  ronde  sous  un  rond  parasol ,  »  —  being,  to  me 
at  least,  a  somewhat  puerile  play  upon  words.  «  But»  (I  seem  to  hear  some  small 
critic  say)  «you  not  only  impose  upon  us  your  saraband  and  your  humming-bird 
(i  and  your  Bokhar,  but  you  have  actually  changed  La  Fontaine's  Caucasus  into  an 
«  Etna,  and  Andre  Chenier's  nightingale  into  a  lark!!!  »  Small  critic!  you  are  quite 
right.  In  addition  to  the  employ  of  one  mountain  or  of  one  singing-bird  for  another 
being,  as  it  happened,  a  matter  of -downright  indifference  to  the  sense  of  the  text, 
I  had  the  rhythm  to  look  to,  aud,  by  implication,  the  rhyme;  and,  as  Byron  says, 
(c  Kings  are  less  imperative  than  rhymes.  » 

But  how  came  you  to  forget,  that  I  have  left  out  a  line  of  «  La  Captive  »  altogether? 
You  see  how  honest  I  am ! 

(21)  —  «  Le  nid  de  Fauvette.  » 

This  pretty  little  piece  of  Berquins  is  indebted  to  Shenstone,  not  only  for  its  metre 
and  its  style ,  but  for  its  ideas  as  well ,  comme  le  void  : 


—  96  — 

«  I  have  found  out  a  gift  for  my  fair ; 

«  I  have  found  where  the  wood-pigeons  breed  r 
«  But  let  me  that  plunder  forbear, 

«  She  will  say  'twas  a  barbarous  deed, 
(i  For  he  ne'er  could  be  true,  she  averr'd, 

«  Who  would  rob  a  poor  bird  of  its  young  : 
«  And  I  lov'd  her  the  more  when  I  heard 
«  Such  tenderness  fall  from  her  tongue.  » 
Of  the  grace  and  beauty  of  the  above  lines  there  can  never  be  a  question ,  but , 
malgre  their  euphonious  merit  and  the  extreme  partiality  of  the  late  well-known 
Thomas  Roscoe ,  of  Liverpool ,  for  the  melodious  poet  of  the  Leasowes ,  it  is  by 
no  means  desirable,  that  the  «  Pastoral  Ballads,  » — the  elegance  of  which  borders 
upon  the  feeble,  as  their  simplicity  does  upon  the  fade, — should,  as  a  canon  of 
taste,  ever  be  held  in  such  very  high  estimation.  The  style,  as  an  exception,  like 
sundry  others ,  is  charming ,  it  is  true ,  but ,  as  a  fashion ,  would  indeed  be  «  res 
pessimi  exempli. »  An  amusing  parody  of  «  The  despairing  Shepherds  (by  Rowe) 
appeared  some  years  back,  whereof  I  give  the  first  stanza  as  a  specimen  : 
«  By  the  side  of  a  murmuring  stream 

«  As  an  elderly  gentleman  sat, 
«  On  the  top  of  his  head  was  his  wig, 

k  On  the  top  of  his  wig  was  his  hat. 
«  The  wind  it  blew  high  and  blew  strong , 

«  As  this  elderly  gentleman  sat, 
((  So  off  from  his  head  went  his  wig , 
((  And  after  his  wig  went  his  hat.  » 


PRINTED  BY   J.-B.   HL'ART. 


iiItllil©P!l!liiIiliSilWIPl 


a^ssaasr  5>&ssraasa  &a  sa. 


'f  INTERN  ,  STONEHENGE  ,  THE   WRECK  OF  THE  ROSCOMMON ,  THE  ROCKS  OF  PENMARC'H , 

SPECIMENS  OF  TRANSLATION  FROM  THE  FRENCH,  LE  GRAND-BET,  OR  THE  TOMB 

OF  CHATEAUBRIAND ,  etc. ,  etc. ,  etc. 


—UK*- — 


While  the  barley's  begemm'd  with  the  dew  of  the  morn  , 
I  abandon  my  nest  in  the  glittering  corn , 
And  merrily ,  merrily ,  merrily  sing 
The  song ,  that  I  sung 
To  my  mate  and  my  young, 
When  yesterday  beam'd  on  the  beautiful  spring. 
As  I  soar  in  the  exquisite  azure  above, 
I  sing  to  my  darlings ,  I  sing  to  my  love , 
No  bird  of  a  million  so  happy  as  I , 
As,  higher  and  higher, 
And  higher  and  higher, 
I'm  winging  my  musical  flight  in  the  sky. 
Merrily, — merrily, — merrily, — merrily; — 
Should  ye  miss  now  and  then  a  few  notes  of  my  lay, 
'Tis  the  wandering  zephyr,  that  wafts  'em  away. 


—  2  — 

With  a  spirit  as  light  as  the  carol  ye  hear, 
I  sing  to  my  darlings ,  I  sing  to  my  dear, 

At  the  glow  of  the  east, — at  the  rise  of  the  sun, 
And  merrily  chant , 
As  his  shafts  are  aslant , 
And  the  vanishing  vapour  is  patchy  and  dun , 
And  the  atoms  o'  cloud ,  that  discolour  the  blue 
In  the  opposite  west ,  are  of  ambery  hue , 

Like  the  bosoming  feathers  the  mavises  bear, 
And  these  pinions  of  mine 
Are  begilt  with  the  shine, 
As  I  swiftly  ascend  in  the  delicate  air. 

Merrily, — merrily, — merrily, — merrily; — 
Should  ye  miss  now  and  then  a  few  notes  of  my  lay, 
'Tis  the  wandering  zephyr,  that  wafts  'em  away. 


Tho'  I  seem  in  my  joy  but  the  morning  to  greet, 
I  sing  to  my  darlings ,  I  sing  to  my  sweet , 

Of  the  wonders  above  and  the  wonders  below, 
— Of  this  dainty  domain 
And  the  radiant  plain , 
Where  the  waters  of  Ocean  unlimited  flow, 
And  the  bay  and  the  bight  are  too  many  to  tell, 
Like  the  cliff  and  the  heath  and  the  hill  and  the  dell 
And  the  town  and  the  bourg  and  the  villa  and  cot 
And  the  cattle  and  sheep, 
That  bespeckle  the  steep, 
As  the  daisies  the  meadow  at  Midsummer  dot. 
Merrily, — merrily, — merrily, — merrily; — 
Should  ye  miss  now  and  then  a  few  notes  of  my  lay, 
'Tis  the  wandering  zephyr,  that  wafts  'em  away. 


Still  higher  and  higher, — above  and  above, — 
1  sing  to  my  darlings ,  I  sing  to  my  love , 

Of  the  sea  and  the  shore  and  the  river  and  lea , 

Where  the  insular  land 

And  the  circle  of  sand 

In  diminishing  size  and  in  dimness  agree ; 

Where  the  fisherman's  sail  is  as  small  as  a  flake, 

And  the  waste  of  the  waves  but  as  large  as  a  lake ; 

Where  the  wood  is  a  grove,  and  the  churches  and  tow'rs, 
With  their  verdure  around, 
Just  appear  on  the  ground , 
And  the  elms  to  the  eye  are  no  taller  than  flow'rs. 
Merrily, — merrily, — merrily, — merrily; 
Should  ye  lose  (as  ye  must)  a  few  notes  of  my  lay, 
'Tis  the  distance  between  us,  that  takes  'em  away. 


Higher  up, — higher  up, — in  a  measureless  sphere 
1  sing  to  my  darlings,  I  sing  to  my  dear, 
— Not  of  earth ,  which  is  fading  so  fast  on  the  sight , 
But  of  regions ,  at  noon 
Where  the  glorious  moon 
And  the  magnifi'd  stars  are  unspeakably  bright ; — 
Where  the  vault  overhead  is  of  azure  no  more , 
But  of  purple  as  deep  as  the  pheasant  e'er  wore , 
Which  well  with  the  plumage  of  Eden  may  vie , 
And  the  neighbouring  throne 
Of  the  Deity's  known 
By  the  worlds,  that  for  ever  illumine  the  sky. 
Merrily, — merrily, — merrily, — merrily ;  — 
Should  ye  lose  (as  ye  must)  a  few  notes  of  my  lay, 
■"lis  the  distance  between  us ,  that  takes  'em  away. 


A   TRIBUTE   TO   MAY. 


BY 


STEPHEN    PRENTIS,    M.  A* 


AUTHOR    OF 


TLYTERN;   STONEHENGE;   THE  WRECK  OF  THE  ROSCOMMON;  THE  ROCKS  Of 
PENMARCH;  SPECIMENS  OF  TRANSLATION  FROM  THE  FRENCH;  etc. 


J.-K.    HUAK'r, 

aasj&si. 


1849. 


TO 

GEORGE  HENRY  MORLAND,   Esq", 

( the  accomplished  nephew  of  a  Man  of  Genius , ) 

in  token  of  a  friendship  of  twenty  years, 

these  pages  are  inscribed 

by 

THE  AUTHOR. 


CONTENTS. 


-*K>a*- 


,  Stanzas  on  the  Spring 1 

Part  I.    of 

composed  at  Dinan. 

Broken-hearted  Paul 17 

Home 25 


Stanzas  on  the  Spring 45 

Notes  to 

Home 57 


When ,  a  few  months  back ,  I  ventured ,  in  spite  of  their  preoccupied  minds , 

lo  come  before  the  residents  of  Dinan  with  my  specimens  of  translation  from 

the  french,  I  argued  to  myself,  that  the  feeling  of  the  hour,  however  paramount, 

would  not  and  could  not  so  utterly  engross  the  speaker  of  either  tongue ,  as  to 

cause  a  little  work  to  be  left  unopened,  which  consisted  half  of  such  beautiful 

originals.  Gladly  and  gratefully  can  I  say,  that  I  argued  right.  So  unbroken  was 

the  claim  of  those  charming  poets,  that  Messieurs  F.  and  L.  L.  and  A.  G. ,  in 

escaping  a  moment  from  the  troubled  waters  of  politics ,  and  in  honouring  my 

imitative  task  with  the  kind  and  critical  notice  of  three  respective  Journals,  expressed 

the  pleasure  they  had  felt  in  drinking  of  that  Helicon  anew.  The  present  hour, 

perhaps ,   is  more  important  still ,   and  the  politics  more  absorbing ,   and   yet , 

with  no  such  auxiliaries  now,  with  no  immortal  lines  on  the  one  page,  and  with 

no  indebted  ideas  on  the  olher,  do  I,   venturing  afresh,  come  forward  with  a 

book  again.  Emboldened  by  what?  by  the  double  love,  deep  and  common  to 

us  all,  more  fervid  even  than  that  of  poetry  and  older  than  poetry  itself, — by 

the  double ,  deep ,  and  common  love  of  Nature  and  of  Home.  Not  to  forestall 

the  matter  of  my  verses,  which  must  be  my  warrant  or  no,  I  will  only  beg  leave 

to  add,  that  I  rejoice,  with  a  thankful  joy,  while  ferment  alas !  is  all  but  universal, 

to  have  found  my  little  picture  of  peace  in  this  endearing  country  o(  Dinan, — a 

country,  like  its  people,  worthy  of  worthier  affections  than  mine; — a  country,  that 

commands  the  praises  of  so  many  pens,  and  of  which  a  native,  in  a  local  Paper 

of  the  olher  day,  gave  a  description,  so  eloquent,  so  smiling,  and  so  just; — a 

country  of  hoary   towers  and  ruined  walls  and  fine  historic  associations; — a 

country  of  unstudied  charm  ,  of  rich  and  random  verdure ,   of  choice  and  easy 


combinations  of  water,  wood,  and  rock,  enhanced,  too,  at  a  thousand  turns , 
by  a  thousand  lovely  accidents  of  light  and  shade;  —  a  country,  like  the  fabled 
Bacchus ,  «  ever  fair  and  ever  young , »  and  of  whose  beauty  may  be  said  t 
what  is  said  by  Antony  of  Cleopatra's , 

«  Age  cannot  wither  it,  nor  custom  stale 
«  Its  infinite  variety ;  » 

■ — a  country  of  healthy  site  and  air,  of  social  freedom,  and  unservile  unexpence ; 
— a  country,  where  the  lapse  of  human  life  is  like  a  rillet's  in  a  mead ; — a  country, 
where  the  fiery  passions  of  the  Capital  are  happily  unknown; — a  country,  where 
la  belie  Nature  of  la  belle  France,  a  stranger  to  the  criminal  excesses  of  man, 
for  ever  fills  the  sacred  duties ,  for  ever  plays  the  innocent  part ,  assigned  her 
by  a  great  and  pure  God; — a  country,  where  the  political  bouleversemens  of 
Europe  are  so  many  faibles  ricochets ,  so  many  weak  rebounds ,  which  spend 
themselves  in  the  distance; — a  country,  where  (to  speak  figuratively  )  the  thunders 
of  Paris  are  inaudible  to  the  turtles  of  the  wood;  where  the  nightingale,  with 
his  flow  of  melody,  kept  welling  to  his  mate,  as  she  warmed  her  quiet  nest 
during  the  Insurrection  of  June ,  and  where  the  clamours  of  that  terrific  scene 
disturbed  not,  even  for  a  moment,  the  wild,  delicious  pipings  of  the  blackbird 
and  the  thrush.  The  simple  linnets,  as  dulcet  as  they  were  in  Eden  and  Arcadia, 
know  nothing  of  the  Revolutions  or  the  Ruins  of  Empires ,  and  the  joyous  larks 
are  as  ignorant  as  they,  that  the  world ,  in  which  they  sing  so  sweetly  at  their 
will ,  has  furnished  with  his  facts  a  Volney  or  a  Vertot.  In  other  words  and 
soberer,  the  love  of  Nature  and  of  Home,  like  the  music  of  the  birds,  is  fixed, 
unfailing,  and  hereditary;  and  thus  was  I  induced  to  write,  malgre  this  season 
of  busy  telegraphs,  what,  on  the  same  account,  I  humbly  hope  may  be  read. 

June, 

S.    P. 
1849. 


Oh !  ever  young  at  heart  and  ever  wise 
Is  he,  that  from  the  sordid  city's  din 
With  open  breast  to  gentle  Nature  flies, 
And  lets  the  sunshine  of  the  spirit  in ; 
And ,  like  the  dial-shade  before  my  eyes , 
— Yon  tablet ,  with  its  solar  index  thin  , 
AVhose  shadow  slops  when  shadows  intervene, — 
Doth  number  none  but  only  hours  serene. — 


And  May  is  come  again !  again  is  come 
Soft,  leafy,  sunny,  sweet,  melodious  May! 

The  wonted  music ,  and  the  wonted  hum , 
Bees  on  each  bank,  and  birds  on  ev'ry  sprays 

And  swarming  butterflies, — a  swelling  sum! — 
With  all  the  rival  colours  they  display, 

That ,  now  at  rest ,  and  now  upon  the  wing , 

Subscribe  their  happy  homage  to  the  Spring  I 


The  azure  air,  —  the  same,  that  surely  brealh'd 
In  early  Paradise  the  breath  of  Heaven , 

When  sinless  Eve  unfading  fillets  wrealh'd, 
And  joy  did  nothing  know  of  sorrow's  leaven 

Ere  yet  the  sodden  Earth  with  vapour  seeth'd 
Of  universal  tears ,  or  yet  was  riven 

The  universal  heart  with  penal  pain , 

Whose  ocean  ebbs  to  only  flow  again  , — 


The  azure  air,  still  glowing  with  the  rise 
Of  Sol,  —  an  element  of  burnish'd  blue!  — 

The  soaring  lark ,  that  lessens  in  the  skies , 
Whose  song  is  melting  into  nothing  too ; — 

The  moral  of  the  morn, — the  homilies 
The  mind  may  read,  aye,  even  in  the  dew, 

That  brightly  bathes  the  smiling ,  weeping  flower 

Those  transient  children  of  the  buri'd  showers ; — 


The  Ranee ,  without  a  ripple  that  dolh  glide 
Insensibly  along  the  winding  vale ; — 

The  lazy  lilies, — lazy  as  the  tide; — 

The  balmy  slumbers  of  the  western  gale  ; — 

The  viewless  choir  on  either  singing  side , 
The  plaining  story  and  the  cooing  tale ; — 

The  boughey  shade  and  ray-begilded  bushes , 

Instinct  with  blackbirds  and  alive  with  thrushes  ;• 


—  3  — 

The  voice ,  that's  heard  in  each  surrounding  placfe , 

Like  Rumour's,  all  at  once,  both  far  and  near,- 
The  woodland  wisp ,  that  mocks  the  leafy  space , 
And  now  is  there,  aud  now  again  is  here, — 
Whose  disputable  home  no  ear  can  trace, 

No  vision  ascertain ,  however  clear, — 
-The  covert  cuckoo's  note,  —  that  shifting  thing, — 
-That  loud  enigma  of  the  laughing  Spring ; — 


The  rock  of  many  hues  and  lofty  head , 
Alternate  white  and  yellow ,  grey  and  green , 

Where  cherry-trees  of  chance  already  shed 
Their  bloom  upon  the  speckled  gorse  between 

And  ivy,  that  affects  the  quick  and  dead, 
Doth  freshly  glitter  in  the  sunny  sheen , 

And  overrun  the  luilher'd  and  enscale 

The  living  branches  with  a  coat  of  mail  ;— 


The  oak ,  the  elm ,  the  aspen  and  the  ash , 
The  willow  and  the  beech,  the  larch  and  fir, 

Whose  vernal  tints  harmoniously  clash , 
Like  vari'd  youth ,  with  each  its  character ; — 

The  wheeling  kite  above  me,  and  the  dash 
Of  buzzards  in  the  broom;  —  the  airy  stir, 

That  flutters  round; — the  swallow  and  the  swift, 

That  seize  the  snowy  blossoms ,  as  they  drift 


—  4  — 

From  hanging  orchards ,  shelving  to  the  stream , 
Where  woodpeckers  at  work  are  tapping  hard 

The  old  and  anty  trees; — the  chequer'd  gleam, 
That  dazzles  in  the  shaw;  —  the  daisy-starr'd 

And  cowslip-cover'd  bank;  —  the  buzzing  beam; 
The  lambs  at  early  play  upon  the  sward ; — ■ 

Th'  intoxicating  feel  —  the  tipsy  mirth 

And  jollity  of  Spring  upon  the  earth ; — 


The  blithe  employ  of  Nature-aiding  Art , 
Which  leads  the  walk  to  wander  like  a  rill 

From  dizzy  points ,  that  make  the  timid  start , 
Yet  Nature  over  Man  prevailing  still , 

As  conies  o'er  the  tombs ,  that  rot  apart , 
Where  Tintern  by  the  everlasting  hill 

Is  greenly  back'd ,  and  watcr'd  by  the  Wye , 

Whose  happy  waves  the  touch  of  Time  defy ; — 


The  voluntary  bow'r ; — the  hazard  hedge; — 
The  clinging  hop ,  as  random  as  the  vine , 

That  gad  together  on  the  massy  ledge 
And  where  the  zephyr'd  periwinkles  twine , 

And  whisper  of  Rousseau ; — the  very  edge 
Alive  with  truant  suckles  and  the  bine, 

Which  stray  like  children  of  the  mountaineer, 

That  skirt  the  cliff ,  and  never  know  a  fear ;— 


The  rocky  stair,  —  the  fanciful  kiosk, — 
( Which  not  without  a  pause  ye  upward  win , ) 
Beset  with  briars ,  as  potent  as  the  musk 

Of  Asiatic  goats ,  that  ramble  in 
Their  wilderness  of  spice  from  dawn  to  dusk  , 

And  batten  on  aroma, — jessamine, 
And  mignonette ,  and  pink ,  and  saucy  pea , 
As  pert  as  wrens ,  and  bold  as  robins  be , 


Or  childhood,  with  th'  assurance  of  an  age, 
That  stands  not  on  respect  of  rank  or  years , 

But ,  e'en  as  Cupid ,  ready  to  engage 
The  giant  of  Convention ,  freely  peers 

Its  face  into  a  king's ,  and  to  the  sage 
Besponds  as  wide  as  Hotspur,  or  endears 

Its  sallies  to  your  man  of  common  sense 

With  most  irrelevant  impertinence ; — 


And  ,   near  at  hand ,  as  higher  ye  advance , 
The  hazel's  living  openwork  of  green , 

By  Nature  knit ,  in  order  for  the  Bance 

To  shine ,   with  double  charm  ,   the  boughs  between 
( — The  old  device  of  Beauty  to  enhance 

Th'  effect  of  features ,  thus  by  snatches  seen , 

And  ah  !  the  glimpsy  loveliness  and  grace , 

That  play,  like  northern  lights,  beneath  the  lace!) — 


—  6  — 

Th'  acacia ,  that  indigenously  grows , 
( — The  tall  Diana  of  a  forest,  full 
Of  shrubs  to  honour  her — );  —  the  guelder-rose, 

A-blossoming  with  balls ,  as  white  as  wool  ;• — 
The  choice  syringa ,  that  an  odeur  throws 

At  limes  as  luscious  as  the  atur-gul, 
For  whom  the  Hafiz  of  the  feather'd  throng 
In  Persia  pours  his  most  melodious  song; — 


The  sumach ,  with  its  dark ,  congenial  leaves , 
So  fitly  form'd  some  welling  fount  to  shade 

By  where  the  world-eschewing  poet  weaves 
His  sonnets  to  Vaucluse,  or,  fondly  laid, 

The  lover  with  a  pleasing  sorrow  grieves , 
And  paints  the  virtues  of  his  absent  maid , 

And  tells  the  woods  of  all  her  traits  so  dearf 

As  if  the  woods  could  either  see  or  hear ! 


— A  soft  retreat,  and  one,  that  softly  drew 

The  soul  of  Moschus  with  the  pen  of  Moore, 

In  lines  so  simple  and  so  polish'd  loo , 
And  such  as  to  itself  the  heart  says  o'er, 

Recalling ,  as  those  placid  pictures  do , 
A  something  it  has  known  or  dream'd  before, 

xVnd  showing  to  the  cold  and  harass'd  breast 

The  warm ,  still  images  of  love  and  rest  •, — 


The  lilac ,  with  ils  load  of  fleeting  grey ; — 
The  rich  laburnum ,  lavish  as  the  heir, 

That  squanders  all  at  once  his  wealth  away, 
And  goes  the  poor,  unpili'd  morrow  bare; — 

The  scented  hawthorn's  seasonable  May, 
That  roofs  the  violets ,  which ,  here  and  there , 

Still  linger  in  the  leaves ,  and  ask  with  sighs 

A  further  furlough  of  the  willing  skies; — 


The  many-tinted  ,   many-smelling  flowers  , 
— A  many-nam'd  and  many-natur'd  show, — ■ 
Whereof  are  some ,  that ,  lit  for  Phcebus'  bowers , 

Return  the  fine  effulgence  of  bis  glow ; 
And  some ,  that ,  op'ning  at  the  ev'ning  hours , 

Perfume  the  dusk,  and  in  seclusion  blow, 
These  worshipping  the  shade ,  and  those  the  sun , 
The  gay  adoring  what  the  quiet  shun ; — 


The  Rose ,  coeval  with  The  Queen  of  Love , 

—The  Queen  of  Flowers  with  Cupid's  mother  born  , — 

To  crown  the  high  festivity  of  Jove , 

And  Paphos  with  a  purple  light  adorn  , 
And  add  a  grace  to  Ganymede  above, 
And  tip  the  fairy  fingers  of  the  Morn  , 
—The  Rose,  that  blush'd  on  Helen's  cheek  ,  and  charm'u 
The  gaze  of  Troy,  and  all  its  ire  disarm'd ; — 


—  8  — 

The  Myrlle,  ever  typical  and  true, 
( The  emblem  of  her  own  enchanting  isle , ) 
Which  never  knows  (as  Cyprus  never  knew) 

A  change  come  o'er  her,  even  for  a  while ; — ■ 
The  Lily,  of  the  wan  and  slighted  hue, 

That  wears  by  day  a  tear-repressing  smile , 
But  hangs  her  head  when  darkness  veils  the  lea , 
And ,  like  Griselda ,  mourns  when  none  can  see  ;- 


The  stori'd  Clytie , — she ,  that ,  to  her  bane , 
Allur'd  of  old  Apollo's  ardent  eye , 

Which  punish'd  her  with  passion ,  and ,  again 
Averted,  blaz'd  upon  another  by, 

Who  buri'd  out  of  sight,  she  pin'd  in  vain 
At  him ,  that  doom'd  her  only  not  to  die , 

Transform'd  into  a  thing  of  gaudy  grief, 

Which,  loving  still,  is  still  without  relief, 


For  still ,  a  moving  monument  of  woe , 
From  east  to  west  she  gradually  turns 

Her  sun-beseeching  face ,  pursuing  slow 
The  slow-revolving  splendour  as  it  burns, 

Nor  drops  her  longing  look ,  'till  quite  below 
Th'  horizon  he  is  gone ,  then  bowing  yearns 

Towards  him  still ,  and  still  without  a  hope , 
-The  dial  of  despair, — the  Heliotrope; — 


—  9  — 

And  oihers ,  loo ,  of  pure  poelic  cast , 
Rise  with  his  rise ,  and  with  his  selling  set  $ 

As  he — whose  vivid  pow'rs  impair'd  at  last, 
When  age  and  sickness  in  his  body  met,— 

Unconscious  was  of  present  and  of  past 

From  twilight  to  the  dawn ,  but ,  rallying  yet  t 

Began  to  gather  with  the  orient  ray 

A  dim  idea  of  the  yesterday , 


Which  kindled  into  light  by  warm  degrees, 

In  common  with  the  earth ,  and  caught  the  hues 
Of  that  recurring  god ,  whose  nature  is , 

Like  Memory,  to  gild  what  he  reviews. 
The  listening  friends  ,  the  talk  beneath  the  trees , 
— Whatever  to  the  mind  the  mind  renews , — 
All ,  all ,  tho'  soon  to  melt  as  the  mirage , 
Came  back  upon  the  sense  of  old  Lesage , 


Who  daily  with  the  sun  kept  even  pace, 

And  reach'd  at  noon  the  zenith  of  his  wit 
( Asmodeus  Redivivus  for  the  space , 

— The  sorry  space , — the  orb  permitted  it ,  ) 

Then  sober'd  on  and  on  of  time  and  place, 
Till  lo !  once  more  the  parting  Glory  lit 

The  bounds  of  misty  Hesperus ,  and  then 

He  sank  into  fatuity  again ; — 


—  10  — 

And  some  there  are,  that,  arrogantly  fair, 
Parade ,  like  silly  girls ,  their  beauty  brave , 

To  wane ,  like  vapid  dowagers ,  that  bear 
Their  false  and  would-be  freshness  to  the  grave ; 

But  these  say  nothing  to  the  heart,  for  where 
The  inward  charm  the  breathing  roses  have? 

And  so  with  such ,  in  whom  ye  fail  to  find 

That  more  than  magic  zone, — a  winning  mind;—r 


And  some ,  again ,  in  simple  fashion  deck'd , 
That  fill  their  modest  station  on  the  soil , 

With  naught  the  common  notice  to  attract , 
Are  emblems  of  the  mass,  who  form  a  foil 

To  set  the  others  off,  till  death  collect 

The  idly  vain ,  and  them ,  that  spin  and  toil , 

And  do  the  duty  of  their  quiet  day, 

And ,  noteless  come ,  as  noteless  pass  away  ; — • 


And  some  are  up  and  out  upon  the  meads , 
As  when  the  horned  Pan  of  classic  yore 

AVas  wont  to  watch  for  Syrinx  in  the  reeds , 
And  Pluto  gather'd  Proserpine,  and  bore 

The  pallid  victim  with  bis  sooty  steeds 
Away  to  Acheron's  untimely  shore, 

The  while  her  flow'rs  kepi  dropping  in  the  wake, 

And,  wet  with  tears,  made  Ceres'  heart  to  ache, 


—  11  — 

As  many  a  mortal  heart  doth  ache  the  same, 

When  Youth ,  the  spoil  of  Atrophy ,  bequeaths 
The  touching  tokens  of  a  sever'd  claim , 
— As  full  of  sorrow  as  the  scatter'd  wreaths, 
That  fell  from  Dis's  car, — for  love  and  fame 

To  twine  into  a  coronal ,  that  breathes 
Of  early  amaranth ,  and  cannot  die , 
Nor  Mason's  strophe ,  nor  Shelly's  monody ; — 


And  some ,  in  the  Mythology  of  Flow'rs , 
The  Dryads  are , — the  genii  of  the  Wood , — 

The  same ,  as  witness'd ,  in  the  olden  hours , 
Adonis ,  dying  in  the  solitude , 

And  Venus ,  bent  above  him ,  shedding  show'rs 
Of  tears ,  not  wholly  idle ,  but  endu'd 

With  virtue  yet,  since  where  Adonis  fell 

Th'  Anemone  arose  to  deck  the  dell, 


—A  dainty  change ,  allho'  the  chang'd  alas ! 

Was  doom'd  no  more  a  title  to  retain , 
As  meet  for  perpetuity  as  was 

Or  his ,  whom  Envy  slew  upon  the  plain , 
Or  his,  who  por'd  upon  the  fatal  glass 

Of  Vanity ,  that  fooleth  wiser  men , 
Because  the  sage  complacence,  that  can  stoop 
To  Self  alone,  is  sure  to  be  a  dupe; — 


—  12  -*■ 

And  some — the  wild  and  interweaving  things , 
As  shy  as  those  small  foresters ,  the  elves , 

That  link  their  little  hands  by  mossy  springs , 
And  hide  in  haunts  as  sylvan  as  themselves, 
( The  sweetest  sure  of  sweet  imaginings !  ) — 
Are  peeping  where  the  busy  dormouse  delves 

His  tooth  into  the  nut  he  duly  stor'd  , 

When  drowsy  autumn  bade  him  hive  his  hoard : 


And  some ,  the  Naids  of  the  floral  crowd , 
Are  found ,   like  Silence ,  on  the  river-marge ; 

And  some  upon  the  wave ,  in  beauty  bow'd , 

Reflected  float ,  with  all  their  leaves  at  large , 
-The  Lilies  of  the  Nile,  as  justly  proud 
As  Cleopatra ,  sailing  in  her  barge , 

Who ,  glancing  at  the  flood ,  that  mirror'd  there 

Her  queenly  face ,  saw  nothing  else  so  fair ; — 


And  some  are  running  in  the  merry  brook , 
To  stem  it  as  they  may,  or,  strewn  along 

The  surface  of  the  pool ,  to  fancy  look 
The  lymphy  urchins  of  a  fairy  throng, 

That ,  fast  asleep  in  some  enchanted  nook , 
Of  Avon  dream  subaqueously  among 

The  liny  caves ,  which  at  the  bottom  be , 

Till  lo !  the  moon  and  rising  revelry ! — 


—  13  — 

And  some  there  are,  the  Oreads  of  the  year, 
That,  like  the  vanish'd  virgins  of  the  hill, 

Who  foremost  of  the  nymphs  did  Echo  hear, 
Are  foremost  of  the  flow'rs  to  hear  her  still ; 

For  she,  when  love  of  her's,  nor  sigh,  nor  tear, 
Could  move  Narcissus  to  bewail  her  ill, 

Bequeath'd ,  poor  shadow !  to  the  mountain-track 

The  voice  the  mountains  sent  in  pity  back. 


And  such  she  is, — a  stop-indebted  sound 

In  solid  cliff,  in  valley,  vault,  and  dyke, 
-An  airy  accident , — a  chance  rebound , — 

According  as  the  voice  may  chance  to  strike! 
But,  high  or  low,  above  or  under  gronnd, 
— Wherever  it  may  be , — is  Echo  like 
The  memory  of  man ,  which  lives  alone 
In  hollow  breath  and  hollow- worded  stone. 


And  sometimes ,  in  the  subterranean  aisle , 

: — The  long, — the  drear, — the  soul-subduing  crypt, 

Where  Levity  itself  forgets  to  smile, 

And  Pride  of  all  her  arrogance  is  stript, 
And  Envy  pauses  at  the  dusty  file 

Of  coffin'd  kings  and  royal  scions ,  nipt 
And  canker'd  by  the  worm,  that  eats  the  flow'r, 
In  spite  of  all  the  sunniness  of  Pow'r,-^- 


—  14  — 

I  say ,  at  seasons ,  in  those  real  homes 

Of  Grandeur,  out  of  common  sight  inurn'd , 
-Those  buri'd  sepulcres — those  catacombs — 
Of  Grandeur,  into  common  ashes  turn'd, — 

As  there  ye  stray,  to  read  amid  the  tombs 
A  lesson ,  ever  taught ,  but  never  learn'd , 

Is  Echo ,  awful  spirit  of  the  dead ! 

A  sermon  in  herself  at  ev'ry  tread! 


And  sometimes ,  as  a  moral-meaning  jest , 
— A  satire  on  the  world ,  wherein  she  was 
The  prey  of  slight,  by  Vanity  opprest, 

And  meek  Desert  no  other  fortune  has , 
But  bold  Presumption  ever  fares  the  best, — 

She  lets  the  low  appeal  to  notice  pass 
Unnotic'd ,  noticing  the  loud  and  vain , 
And  shouting  to  the  fool  his  laugh  again ; 


And  sometimes ,  in  a  sort  of  plaintive  mirth , 
( As  men ,  at  whiles ,  take  up  the  catch  of  care . 
And  ring  the  changes  on  a  woe  of  earth , ) 

Or  loth  to  be  the  only  echo  there, 
She  gives  another  and  another  birth, 

Till,  liner  even  than  the  ear  of  air, 
The  word,  she  made  her  melancholy  play, 
Has  died  among  the  rocks...  away.....  a....  way! 


—  15  — 

The  flow'rs !  the  flow'rs ,  the  children  of  the  show'rs ! 

The  issue  of  the  cloud  and  dewy  sky ; 
The  garlands  of  the  azure-loving  hours , 

Once  more  around  their  happy  heads  to  lie  J 
The  many-shaded  ,  many-graded  flow'rs  f 

That  form  a  more  than  prism  to  the  eye, 
And  charm  the  sense  in  many  a  dear  degree, 
The  flow'rs !  the  flow'rs !  how  beautiful  they  be ! 


The  scatter'd  fragments  of  a  glorious  light, 
That  puts  to  shame  the  seven-colour'd  bow 

Of  Eve,  and  saddens  Iris  with  the  sight, 
How  bravely  well  the  living  atoms  blow ! 

AVould  seem  as  if,  thus  emulously  dight, 
They  hail'd  the  birth  of  Hermes,  or  as  tho' 

They  met  upon  the  soil ,  so  richly  gay , 

To  keep  the  anniversary  of  May, — 


For  May  is  come  again ! — again  is  come 
Soft,  leafy,  sunny,  sweet,  melodious  May; 

The  wonted  music  and  the  Avonted  hum , 
Bees  on  each  bank ,  and  birds  on  ev'ry  spray ; 

And  swarming  butterflies , — a  swelling  sum ! — 
With  all  the  rival  colours  they  display, 

That,  now  at  rest,  and  now  upon  the  wing, 

Subscribe  their  happy  homage  to  the  Spring! 


BROKEN- HE ARTID   PAUL. 


-oo- 


Yirginia  !  oh !  my  perish'd  love ! 

My  lost  delight !  my  earthly  all ! 
Though  tears  be  things  unknown  above, 

Still,  still  in  pity  to  thy  Paul, 


Since  only  now  thy  spirit  came 
My  short-sleep'd  anguish  to  beguile, 

And  call'd  me  by  my  wonted  name, 
And  smil'd  as  thou  wast  wont  to  smile  , 


Come  once  again ,  and  tell  me  where 
(What  they  will  not)  thy  form  doth  lie, 
That  I  my  heart  may  anchor  there, 
Discharge  its  wretched  freight ,  and  die. 


—  18  — 

Alas !  in  lieu  of  tramping  feet 

And  sick'ning  round  of  dale  and  hill , 

To  woo  the  rest ,  that  shuns  me  yet , 
And  fly  the  thought ,  that  follows  still , 


How  better  to  have  surely  known 
Thy  body  stranded  by  the  wave , 

That  so  my  centred  grief  might  own 
A  whereabouts  to  weep — thy  grave ! 


Thy  grave !  thy  grave ! — Almighty  God  ! 

And  is  it  come  indeed  to  this , 
That  I  could  bear  to  see  the  sod , 

Aye ,  think  the  sight  a  happiness ! 


Then  come ,  in  whatsoever  guise , 
— In  pity  to  this  aching  brain , 
This  crying  heart ,  these  longing  eyes , 
— In  common  pity ,  come  again ! 


Albeit  from  a  wat'ry  tomb , 

With  dripping  weeds  and  dripping  hair, 
Oh !  come  again  ,  in  pity  come ! 
— Virginia !  speak  to  my  despair ! 


—  19  — 

For  I ,  for  ever  from  that  night 
Unutterable  pangs  have  borne, 

And  through  the  darkness  and  the  light 
Myself  have  to  a  shadow  worn 


With  woe,  that  never  flags, — a  woe, 
That  drives  me  onward  till  I  drop ; 

So  weary ,  yet  compell'd  to  go , 
Too  faint  to  move,  too  sad  to  stop. 


Or  if,  by  many  a  plodding  league 
Enforc'd ,  the  snatchy  sleep  betide , 

And  stretch  me ,  helpless  with  fatigue , 
The  mournful  gully's  gush  beside , 


Or  haply  on  the  lonely  lea , 

Or  haply  in  the  silent  dell , 
Or  haply  by  the  sobbing  sea , 

My  dreams ,  by  some  connecting  spell , 


Cameleon-like ,  their  colour  take 
From  what  the  vision  last  did  view 

Love's  shatter'd  images  remake , 
And  e'eu  our  infancy  renew. 


—  20  — 

But  most  ( ah !  were  it  but  a  dream !  ) 
I  see  thee  on  the  piteous  wreck, 

The  while  the  livid  lightnings  gleam, 
And  flash  around  thee  on  the  deck , 


And  then ,  amid  the  ghastly  blaze , 
As  thou  upon  thy  knees  dost  fall , 

I  see  thy  shrinking  form  upraise 
One  hand  to  Heaven  and  one  to  Paul  - 


And  see  no  more.  I  only  know 
A  sort  of  scuffle  on  the  shore , — 

A  buri'd  bandying  to  and  fro , — 

A  dashing  shock  , — and  nothing  more. — 


A  long  bad  sleep , — a  slow  dull  wake , 
With  bruised  limbs  and  troubled  head , 

While  things ,  that  made  my  senses  ache , 
Like  spectres,  throng'd  about  my  bed. 


Though  all  familiar  was ,  I  wist 

Nor  whose  the  face,  nor  where  the  spot. 
Like  daily  objects  in  a  mist , 

I  saw  the  truth ,  but  knew  it  not. 


—  21   — 

Yet  one  clear  thought ,  distinct  as  now , 
Show'd  forth  in  my  dim  memory, 

And  that — what  could  it  be  but  thou  ? 
And  still  my  question  was  of  thee. 


I  ask'd  of  this,— I  ask'd  of  that, — 
Of  all ,  that  came  and  stood  by  me , — 

And  of  my  Mother,  as  she  sat 
And  watch'd ,  I  ask'd  the  same ,  but  she 


With  meaning  eyes ,  that  melting  moum'd , 
Look'd  at  me  hard,  but  nothing  said. 

And  then  my  wandering  wits  return'd , 
For  then  I  knew ,  that  thou  wast  dead. — 


As  Paul  sits  silent  and  overcome ,  a  nightingale  sings.     He  listens ,  and  then 
apostrophizes  the  bird  thus  : 


Poor  bird !  that  shedd'st  thy  plaining  tears , 
"Where  yon  dishevell'd  willows  hang 

Their  boughs,  as  in  those  hapless  years, 
When  thus  thy  feather'd  lathers  sang 


—  22  — 

By  Babel's  stream ,  and  Judah  kept 
A  list'ning  silence  at  the  lay , 

Save  where  her  sobbing  daughters  wept , 
And  thought  of  Sion  far  away. 


Thy  changeless  cry  doth  tell  me  this  : 
That  Nature's  of  all  time  and  place , 

And  Grief  a  thing  immortal  is , 
For  sure  in  thy  undying  race 


Some  metamorphos'd  spirit  sings 
Of  Love  and  its  unlasting  joys , 

And  sweetly  opes  the  gushing  springs 
Of  human  Sorrow  with  thy  voice ! 


Tereu!  Tereu!  » — that  woeful  tale, 
How  well  it  suits  my  mateless  mood ! 

And  well  dost  thou ,  poor  bird !  bewail 
Thy  lost  Virginia  of  the  wood ! 


Then  still  pour  on  thy  liquid  strain , 
For  lo !  my  heart's  a  fountain  too , 

And ,  falling  like  the  summer  rain , 
My  tears  respond  «  Tereu !  Tereu !  » 


—  23  — 

He  continues  to  listen  and  to  shed  tears,  until  —  the  song  dying  away  —  he 
gradually  falls  asleep ,  when ,  as  it  would  seem ,  the  vision  of  Virginia  appears 
!o  him  ,  since  he  thus  concludes  : 


Stay ,  stay ,  my  love !  I'll  go  with  thee ! 

— Virginia! What!  another  dream! 

But  blessed  may  its  warning  be , 
Since  slowly  from  the  orient  beam 


Thou  pointedst  to  the  welcome  west, 
Then ,  beck'ning  with  thy  hand  as  slow , 

Dissolvedst  to  thy  place  of  rest, 
Where  Paul  at  set  of  sun  shall  so! 


home-:. 


My  name  to  that  endearing  isle 
Of  happy  hearths  I  trace , 
Where  home  and  comfort  ever  smile 

In  one  another's  face, 
And ,  though  my  vari'd  worship  be 
As  common  as  humanity , 
I  hear  but  on  a  single  shore 
A  word  for  what  the  rest  adore. 


To  fix  unsteady  man  are  mine 

A  thousand  tender  ties , 
Which  bind  him  to  the  torrid  line, 

And  'neath  the  polar  skies , 
For  there ,  as  in  each  milder  zone , 
My  votaries  I  fondly  own , 
Attaching ,  with  an  equal  law , 
The  Hottentot  and  Esquimaux. 


—  26  — 

The  one ,  the  burning  air  (o  flee , 

Doth  shelter  in  his  hut , 
The  other  out  to  icy  sea 

In  leafless  summer  put , 
Yet  they ,  that  shun  the  breath  of  noon , 
And  they ,   that  seek  the  whale  in  June , 
Unharbouring  a  wish  to  roam , 
But  cling  the  more  to  happy  home. — 


The  Arab ,  from  the  morning  light 

That  never  draws  the  rein, 
Till  lo !  another  dusky  night 
Is  shadowing  (he  plain , 
Accustom'd ,  as  he  is ,  lo  range 
The  wild  at  will ,  would  he  exchange 
His  solitude  of  native  sand 
For  gay  Grenada's  fattest  land? 


Let  others  talk  o'  Spanish  soil , 

And  quaff  the  muscadel , 
To  him  the  date  is  corn  and  oil , 

His  wine  the  blessed  well. 
On  downy  beds  let  others  lie , 
Be  his  beneath  the  open  sky 
To  pillow  on  the  weary  steed , 
That  stretches  there  his  limbs  oT  speed. 


—  27  — 

But ,  soou  as  e'er  another  sua 

Begilds  the  yellow  plain  , 
So  soon ,  another  race  to  run , 

The  Arab's  up  again  , 
And,  bending  o'er  his  saddle-bow, 
Is  sweeping  like  the  wind ,  for  now 
He  sees  the  ostrich  stride  away, 
-The  same ,  that  beat  him  yesterday. 


Should  he ,  by  foreign  tongue  beguii'd , 

Forsake  for  foreign  land 
The  freedom  of  his  native  wild , 

— His  solitude  of  sand , — 
And  in  the  crowded  city  view 
The  desert-bird  in  narrow  mew , 
He  bans  the  hour,  that  bade  him  roam. 
And  heaves  a  sigh  for  happy  home  — 


The  swain ,  but  just  aware ,  that  he 

'S  the  subject  of  a  realm , 
Who  nothing  knows  of  majesty 

Beyond  the  oak  and  elm, 
Content  to  pass  away  his  span 
From  youth  to  age ,  from  child  to  man , 
And  lead  the  life  the  Dryads  led , 
Where  boughs  are  arching  overhead , 


—  28  — 

The  swain ,  that  passes  thus  away 

His  being  in  the  woods , 
Where ,  hidden  by  the  month  of  May , 

The  timid  turtle  broods , 
And  where  amid  the  leaves  is  heard 
The  voice  of  many  a  blither  bird  , 
And  where  a  watch  the  herons  keep 
Beside  the  fishy  waters  deep , 


-Would  he ,  with  Nature-loving  heart 

So  wedded  to  the  trees , 
Their  music  give  for  all  the  art 

Of  all  the  Milanese, 
And ,  silting  in  the  Scala ,  share 
The  dilettanti  raptures  there, 
Or  slight  for  Persiani's  note 
The  gush  of  Philomela's  throat;' 


No ,  no ,  his  simple  soul  has  been 

Habituate  loo  long 
To  hear  i'  lh'  old  familiar  scene 

The  old  familiar  song 
The  mavis  to  each  other  sing, 
And  linnets  in  the  early  spring, 
And  sylvan  larks ,   that  warble  low 
The  strains ,  that  mov'd  him  long  ago. 


—  29  — 

Enchanting  is  the  month  of  May , 

The  murmur  of  the  dove, 
The  mavis  has  a  winning  lay , 

The  linnet  melts  the  grove, 
And  well  the  sylvan  lark  may  stir 
The  feelings  of  the  forester, 
And  touch  his  quiet  spirit  well , 
But  home  it  is,  that  forms  the  spell. 


And  he ,  to  whom  the  dizzy  crag 

A  cheerless  cradle  was , 
Where  Autumn  blows  without  a  flag , 

And  Spring  without  a  pause , 
And  where ,  at  most ,  ( too  nudely  high 
To  tempt  the  heather-game  to  fly , ) 
The  summits ,  in  their  seasons ,  view 
The  ptarmigan  and  stone-curlew ; 


And  where  his  very  mountain-goats 

Can  scarce  a  footing  find , 
As ,  wincing  in  their  shaggy  coats , 

They  sidle  at  the  wind 
Of  bitter  and  subversive  March , 
And  where  a  sole  surviving  larch 
The  shock ,  perhaps ,  has  still  defi'd  , 
Like  poverty  upheld  by  pride, 


—  30  — 

And  here  and  there's  a  fallen  fir. 

With  shiver'd  limbs  to  match, 
And  here  and  there's  a  cottager , 

As  ragged  as  the  thalch 
The  lumps  o'  granite   overlay , 
For  fear  the  roof  be  torn  away , 
And  scatter'd  by  the  whirling  blast , 
Like  leaves ,  at  rapid  random  cast. 


And  here  and  there's  a  mimic  flock 

Of  small  and  sooty  sheep , 
That  nibble  on  the  patchy  rock 

Their  miserable  keep ; 
And  here  and  there's  a  lowing  cow, 
Of  dwarfish  size,  supported  how? 
And  here  and  there ,  by  way  o'  steed , 
A  satire  on  the  Shetland  breed. 


A  desolate  abode  is  his , 

Yet  ask  the  mountainneer 

To  change  his  savage  Hebrides 
For  valleys  of  Cashmeer, 

With  all  her  aromatic  bowers , 

Perfumed  fruits  and  otto'd  flowers 

-Her  goats  for  him  in  spice  may  roam , 

Since  what  are  they  to  his  and  home?- 


—  31   — 

The  hind ,  whose  sorry  farm  is  in 

The  fens ,  that  never  cease 
To  echo  the  discordant  din 
Of  waterfowl  and  geese 
And  ravens ,  croaking  loud  and  harsh  , 
And  bitterns ,  booming  in  the  marsh , 
Where  evil  exhalations  clog 
The  dripping  air  with  fever-fog; 


And  where  the  livid  loam  reveals , 

At  ebbing  of  the  flood , 
The  sinuous  and  slimy  eels 

And  crabs,  that  love  the  mud, 
And  summer  sees  the  winter  wall 
To  hard  and  heavy  pieces  fall , 
When  long ,  with  many  a  ihirsly  chink  , 
The  marly  dyke  has  gap'd  for  drink  ; 


-To  him's  an  azure-elher'd  Greece 

That  misly  level  dim ; 
The  gabble  of  his  noisy  geese 

Is  harmony  to  him. 
And  what  if  swamp  beset  his  cot? 
It  stands  on  the  paternal  spot. 
And  what  if  ague  shake  his  frame? 
It  shook  Ids  father's  just  the  same. 


—  32  — 

Can  he  survey  at  sixty  there 
Without  a  thankful  joy 
The  shallow  pond  of  rushes ,  where 

He  paddled  when  a  boy? 
With  both  his  brothers  lost  at  sea , 
His  sister  dead  at  far  Tralee , 
Let  such ,  as  will ,  at  random  roam 
Be  his  to  live  and  die  at  home. 


The  miner's  self,  that,  strange  to  say. 

Was  born  the  earth  below , 
And  never  saw  the  orb  of  day 
Its  shifting  shadow  throw 
From  rosy  rise  to  purple  set, 
Nor  silver  stars  together  met 
Around  their  more  refulgent  queen , 
As  Dian's  nymphs  may  once  have  been , 


Nor  mark'd  a  cloud  above  him  sail 

Athwart  the  waveless  blue , 
Nor  hill  beheld ,  nor  mead ,  nor  vale , 

With  river  winding  through  , 
Nor  ashy  stream ,  nor  willow'd  lake , 
Nor  aught  of  all  the  things ,  that  make 
To  healthy  minds  and  healthy  eyes 
This  vari'd  word  a  Paradise. 


—  33  — 

Go ,  bid  him  in  your  pity  leave 

His  excavated  den , 
To  share  the  common  morn  and  eve , 

That  shine  for  other  men , 
The  glowing  east ,   the  glowing  west , 
The  moon ,  the  stars ,  and  all  the  rest , 
That  make  to  healthy  minds  and  eyes 
This  vari'd  world  a  Paradise. 


Ere  use  has  taught  his  dazzled  sight 

The  wonders  to  discern , 
Reverting  to  his  nether  light, 
He'll  vaunt  to  ye  in  turn 
The  marvels  of  his  buri'd  town , 
Where ,  fathoms  after  fathoms  down , 
Extends  the  mighty  mass  o'  vault , 
The  Elephanta  Caves  o'  salt ! 


—A  catacomb ,  with  life  replete , 
Where  in  the  salt  abound 
The  movements  of  the  busy  street , 

*  A  Ludgate  under  ground  ! 
And  where  eternal  lamps  illume 
The  chambers  of  defeated  gloom , 
And  torches  ever  flitting  be 
From  gallery  to  gallery  5 

*  Whoever  would  see  the  stream  of  human  life  at  its  high  tide  has  but  to  be  un  Ludgate  til 
about  3  <>'  clock  p.  m.  of  a  week-day.  Or  London  Bridge  will  do  as  well. 


—  34  — 

Where  mass  is  sung ,  and  prayers  are  said , 

As  rings  the  chapel-bell , 
And  beads  are  told  ,  and  vows  are  paid 

To  saints  in  mineral , 
And  where,  the  solemn  service  o'er, 
The  urchins  on  the  gleamy  floor 
Rim  out  to  play ,  as  others  run 
To  gambol  in  the  open  sun  ; 


And  where ,  the  glory  of  the  mine ! 

The  weeping  wife  of  Lot 
Is  even  as  the  sparry  shine 

In  Antiparos'  grot , 
And ,  pouring  from  a  hazy  steep , 
The  waters ,  with  a  fearful  leap , 
Come  ghastly  down ,  and  overflow 
A  briny  bed  of  scemina  snow. 


And  such  the  tale  the  miner  tells , 
Who  back  again  would  go , 

But  what  the  rare  magnetic  spells , 
That  draw  him  to  below  ? 

Association ,  friends ,  and  wife, 

And  children ,  there  that  came  to  life , 
-Then  check  ye  that  derisive  smile , 

To  hear  him  talk  of  home  the  while. — 


—  35  — 

The  soldier  at  his  silent  post, 

The  sailor  on  the  sea 
Regard  the  heav'n-bestudding  host, 

And  then  remember  me ; 
For  sure  as  Earth  is  hush'd  to  rest , 
And  Ocean  heaves  his  placid  breast , 
Of  them ,   that  watch  by  land  or  sea , 
I  turn  the  wistful  thoushts  to  me. 


The  more  upon  the  scene  they  gaze , 

The  more  and  still  the  more 
To  me  recurring  fancy  strays 

As  fondly  as  before , 
Till ,  even  as  the  swelling  sum 
Of  stars,  the  recollections  come, 
And ,  not  without  a  sense  of  pain , 
O'erspread  the  homeward  heart  again. 


That  dewy  light,  that  perfect  calm 

That  glitter  on  the  deep 
Recall  the  hour  of  breathing  balm , 

When  Nature  was  asleep , 
And  Phoebe  lit ,  with  quiet  beam , 
The  soldier's  own  beloved  stream , 
And  sparkled  on  the  lively  rill , 
That  glads  the  sailor's  native  hill. 


—  36  — 

Twas  there,  that,  in  a  cabin  born 

Beneath  the  shelving  straw, 
They  heard ,  at  peep  of  piping  morn , 

The  blackbird  in  the  shaw, 
And  stole ,  at  noon ,  from  tree  to  tree , 
To  where  the  cuckoo  seem'd  to  be , 
And  crept ,  at  eve ,  adown  the  dell 
To  spy  the  bird ,  that  sang  so  well. 


And  there  it  was ,  in  pleasant  fields , 
When  weary  of  their  play , 

They  cull'd  the  flowers  the  meadow  yields 
With  girls  as  young  as  they , 

And  sat  beneath  the  cooling  quiver 

Of  aspens  by  the  shaded  river, 

Whose  memory  is  sweeter  yet 

Than  e'en  its  banks  of  violet. 


And  there  it  was ,  ( for  love  pervades 

The  universal  plan , 
Unheedful  of  the  silly  grades , 

By  man  assign'd  to  man , ) 
That  Cupid  pli'd  his  wizard  power, 
And  most  at  that  bewitching  hour, 
When  softest  oaths  and  softest  eyes 
Are  soften'd  by  the  softest  skies. 


—  37  — 

Yea ,  there  it  was ,  that  either  boy , 

Willi  her  he  held  so  dear, 
-Opprest  by  that  uneasy  joy, 

Whose  token  is  a  tear, — 
Would  wander  in  the  wonted  grove , 
When  all  the  aiding  air  was  love , 
And  tender  Yenus,  looking  on, 
With  tutelary  lustre  shone. 


That  passion  soon  was  found  to  wane 

And  wither  as  the  rose , 
Which  hastens  in  the  hedgey  lane 

To  die  the  day  it  blows , 
But ,  link'd  to  what  can  never  fade , 
The  memory  of  either  maid 
Still  follows  wheresoe'er  they  roam , 
And  forms  a  part  of  happy  home. — 


The  likeness  of  a  thing  or  place 

To  one  ye  left  behind, — ■ 
The  features  of  a  passing  face 
Renew  me  to  ihe  mind. 
An  oak ,  with  mossy  branches  spread . 
The  fashion  of  a  rural  shed , — 
A  ruin'd  wall , — a  fairy-ring , — 
Can  back  my  lov'd  idea  bring. 


—  3S  — 

I  know  a  surer  sorcerer, 

Than  ever  wav'd  the  rod 
Above  an  eastern  sepulere , 
— The  daisy  on  the  sod ! 
The  daisy ,  which ,  with  magic  fraught , 
The  spirits  of  departed  thought 
Can  conjure  in  a  moment  up, 
As  can  the  potent  buttercup ! 


Were  fewer  far  than  mine ,  I  ween , 
The  shapes ,  that  Nereus  wore , 
Or  he,  that  fed  his  flock  marine 

Along  the  sedgey  shore , 
And  who  by  turns  a  beast  became , 
A  bird ,  a  reptile ,  air  and  flame , 
And  in  a  gush  of  water  would 
His  questioner  at  times  elude. 


To  some  I  am  the  level  lea ; 

To  some  the  mountain-side ; 
To  some  the  old  accustom'd  sea  5 

To  some  the  verdure  wide , 
"Where ,  bounded  by  the  azure  sky , 
The  beautiful  savannas  lie , 
And  onward  ,  onward  ,  onward  go , 
Like  Ocean's  green  and  forward  flow. 

Proteus. 


—  39  — 

To  some  I  am  the  thymey  down , 

To  some  the  gorsey  moor ; 
To  some  the  rich  commercial  town  ; 

To  some  the  faded  bourg  ; 
To  some  the  vast  metropolis , 
Whose  noise  a  very  Babel  is ; 
To  some  the  small  sequester'd  glen , 
Far  sunken  from  the  mob  of  men. 


To  some  I  am  the  eite-forte , 

With  many-soldier'd  street ; 
To  some  I  am  the  peaceful  port, 

Where  many  merchants  meet ; 
To  some  the  idle  spa ;  to  some 
A  Sheffield  with  its  busy  hum , 
Or  Lyons  at  the  silky  loom , 
With  hundreds  in  a  shuttled  room. 


The  Swiss ,  compell'd  to  leave  betimes 

The  land ,   that  gave  him  birth , 
And  take  the  gold  of  other  climes , 

And  fight  for  other  earth , 
Or  guard  within  a  palace  keep 
To  shield  a  monarch's  menac'd  sleep, 
And  risk  his  unbelonging  life 
On  foreign  soil  at  civil  strife , — 


—  40  — 

The  Brelon ,  forc'd  to  lay  aside 

For  war's  unquaint  allire 
The  garb ,  that  form'd  his  fathers'  pride 

From  simple  sire  to  sire , 
And  hear  the  loud  rappel  in  lieu 
Of  Hymen's  pipe ,  the  brisk  biniou , 
Which  musters ,  with  its  merry  strain , 
The  wedding-guests'  gavotte-mg  chain  ,— 


When  novelty ,  that  sooths  the  grief, 

Which  harasses  the  young , 
Supplies  no  more  the  same  relief 
To  ease  what  sorrow  wrung, 
And  gone  are  all  the  early  charms, 
That  dazzle  in  the  trade  of  arms , 
And  frequent  change  forbids  the  mind 
In  change  itself  a  change  to  find , — 


When  every  *  human  use  alas ! 

Is  weary ,  flat ,  and  stale  , 
Then ,  then ,  as  in  a  magic  glass , 

Returns  the  wonted  vale , 
The  lengthy  lake ,   the  soaring  height , 
t  The  heath ,  that  stretches  out  of  sight , 
The  woods ,  that  wave ,  the  falls ,  that  foam , 
And  look  and  sound  of  happy  home. 

*  «  How  flat  .  stale ,  weary  and  unprofitable 

«  Are  all  Die  uses  of  humanity'.  »  SHAKEsrEAiiE. 

f  In  the  French,  lande .  for  which   La  Basse- Bretagne  is  more  particularly  remarkable. 


—  41  — 

In  fancy  on  ihe  Alp  again , 

In  fancy  on  the  hill, 
The  one  reviews  his  native  plain , 

His  chalet  and  the  mill ; 
The  other,   for  the  Ranz-de-vaclie 
Across  the  hazy  torrent's  dash, 
Is  drinking  in,  with  dreaming  ear, 
A  ballad  of  the  Finistere. 


And  either  in  his  thought  can  smell 

The  odour  of  the  pine, 
And  either  hear  the  truant  bell 
Of  her,  that  leads  the  kine 
To  where  the  hot  and  glowing  glade 
Is  border'd  by  the  forest-shade , 
And  buzzing  flies  and  buzzing  bees 
Beset  the  blossom-bearing  trees. 


And  thinking  of  the  dear  perfume, 

Exhaling  from  the  pine, 
And  thinking  of  the  yellow  broom , 

So  wanderingly  fine , 
And  thinking  of  the  fern ,  that  grows 
As  wildly  as  the  other  blows , 
And  whatsoever  else  there  be 
Of  primitive  and  fresh  and  free, 


—  42  — 

The  sighing  Swiss  is  overcome , — > 

The  Breton  is  subdu'd , — 
He  sickens  at  the  daily  drum , — 
He  loathes  his  daily  food , — 
Till ,  tears  his  only  meat  and  drink , 
The  pow'rs  of  mind  and  body  sink , 
And ,  sobbing  in  his  barrack-bed , 
He  lifts  no  more  his  heavy  head. 


The  leech  essays  to  cure  in  vain 

A  morbid  moral  ill , 
Whose  seeds  are  in  the  absent  plain , 

The  mountain  and  the  hill , 
-A  hopeless  harm , — a  dire  disease , — 
That  mocks  at  human  remedies , 
And  eats  the  very  heart  away , 
-The  melancholy  «  mal-du-pays !  » — 


The  world-forgotten  exile ,  who 

Is  doom'd  to  die  afar, 
Where ,  worse  than  their  depressing  hue , 

The  long  white  winters  are , 
And  where  the  sad  Siberian  field 
Doth  little  to  the  vision  yield 
Beside  the  sable-thinning  bear , 
That  helps  the  wolf  to  rob  him  there , 


—  43  — 

As  soon  as  e'er  the  tardy  spriog 

Is  breathing  on  the  wild , 
His  daughter,  dear  devoted  thing! 

— His  uncomplaining  child  , — 
Willi  voice  as  sweet  as  dulcimer's , 
Will  take  his  passive  hand  in  her's  , 
And ,  smiling  as  she  gives  the  other 
As  fondly  to  her  mournful  mother, 


Will  lead  them  to  the  sunny  spot, 

Where  emulously  blows , 
To  charm  with  her  the  cheerless  cot, 

Their  own  Crimean  rose! 
-Their  own  Crimean  rose ,  the  flow'r 
The  lady  in  the  bitter  hour 
Of  parting  took ,  when  forc'd  to  roam , 
And  sever  from  their  happy  home. 


And ,  gazing  on  the  pledge  o'  spring , 

Transported  to  the  wild , 
And  then  upon  that  kindred  thing, 

Their  desert-sharing  child  , 
The  banish'd  couple  shed  a  show'r 
Of  tears  on  each  affecting  flow'r, 
As  I,  a  thought  of  weeping  pain, 
Come  back  upon  the  heart  again. 


NOTES 

TO 

Stanzas  on  the  Spriug. 

00- — 


(1)  —  «  And,  like  the  dial-shade  before  my  eyes, 

«  — Yon  tablet,  with  its  solar  index  thin, 

«  Whose  shadow  stops  when  shadows  intervene, — 

«  Doth  number  none  but  only  hours  serene.  » 

IIouas  non  nctiero  nisi  serenas, — the  felicitous  motto  for  a  sun-dial,  which,  as 
met  with  in  the  garden  of  an  Italian  monastery,  suggested  to  the  writer,  William  Ilazlitt . 
one  of  his  happiest  and  finest  passages. 

(2)  —  «  And  where  the  zephyr 'd  periwinkles  twine, 

«  And  whisper  of  Rousseau ,  »  etc . 

«  Je  donnerai  de  ces  souvenirs  un  seul  exemple,  qui  pourra  faire  juger  de  leur  force 
et  de  leur  verite.  Le  premier  jour,  que  nous  allames  coucher  aux  Charmettes,  maman 
etait  en  chaise  a  porteurs,  et  je  la  suivais  a  pied.  Le  chemin  monte;  elle  etait  assez 
pesante;  et,  craignant  de  trop  fatiguer  ses  porteurs,  elle  voulut  descendre  a  peu  pres  a 
moitie  chemin  pour  faire  le  reste  a  pied.  En  marchant,  elle  vit  quelque  chose  de  bleu 
dans  la  haie,  et  me  dit :  «  Voild  de  la pervenche  encore  enfleur.  »  Je  n'avais  jamais  vu  de 
lapervenche,  jenemebaissaipaspourl'examiner,  etj'ai  la  vue  trop  courtepour  distin- 
guer  a  terre  les  plantes  de  ma  hauteur.  Je  jetai  seulement  en  passant  un  coup  d'ceil  sur 
celle-la,  et  pres  dc  trente  ans  se  sont  passes  sans  que  j'aie  revu  de  la  pervenche,  ou  que 
j  y  aie  fait  attention.  En  1764 ,  etant  a  Cressier  avec  mon  ami ,  M.  de  Peyrou ,  nous  mon- 
tions  une  petite  montagne,  au  sommet  de  laquelle  il  a  un  joli  salon ,  qu'il  appelle  avec 
raison  Bellevue.  Je  commencais  alors  d'herboriser  un  peu.  En  montant  et  regardant 
parmi  les  buissons,  je  pousse  un  cri  de  joie  :  Ah!  voila  de  la  pervenche !  et  e'en  etait 
en  effet.  Du  Peyrou  s'apercut  du  transport,  mais  il  en  ignorait  la  cause;  il  l'apprendra, 
jel'espere,  lorsqu'un  jour  il  lira  ceci.  Le  lecteur  peut  juger  par  l'impression  d'un  si  petit 
objet  de  celle ,  que  m'ont  faite  tous  ceux ,  qui  se  rapportent  a  la  meme  epoque.  » 

J*-J.  Rousseau. 


—  4G  — 

( 3 )  —      «  as  potent  as  the  musk 

<c  Of  Asiatic  goats ,  that  ramble  in 

k  Their  wilderness  o'  spice  from  dawn  to  dusk , 
«  And  batten  on  aroma,  »  etc. 

«  L'odeur  forte  et  penetrante  du  muse  »  (dit  M.  Daubenton)  «  est  trop  sensible  pour  que' 
ce  parfum  n'ait  pas  ete  remarque  en  meme  temps  que  l'animal ,  qui  le  porte ;  aussi  leur 
a-t-on  donne  a  tous  les  deux  le  meme  nom  de  muse.  Cet  animal  se  trouve  dans  les 
royaumes  de  Boutan  et  de  Tunquin ,  a  la  Chine  et  dans  la  Tartarie  chinoise ,  et  meme' 
dans  quelques  parties  de  la  Tartarie  moscovite.  » 

Buffon. 

(  4 )  —  «  As  pert  as  ivrens^  and  bold  as  robins  be. 

Close  to  the  door  of  a  back-yard ,  which  opened  upon  the  kitchen-garden  of  a  former 
residence  of  mine,  a  couple  of  wrens  had  built  and  brought  up  their  brood  in  the  hol- 
low of  a  cut  cabbage ,  quite  regardless  of  the  thorough-fare.  As  for  the  robin ,  —  called 
by  the  English  peasantry  «  God  Almighty's  bird,  —  he  is,  like  Mahomet  and  Parson 
Trulliber,  of  a  most  pugnacious  quality.  I  recollect  seeing,  in  the  porch  of  a  Cathedral , 
a  desperate  battle  between  one  of  these  quarrelsome  little  fellows  and  a  cock-sparrow , 
when  the  latter,  though  he  laid  about  him  like  the  cad  of  an  omnibus ,  was  drubbed 
within  a  feather  of  his  life.  The  combatants  were  so  absorbed  by  their  animosity,  as  to 
go  on  fighting  at  my  very  foot ,  reminding  me  ( to  compare  small  things  with  great )  of- 
the  Roman  and  Carthaginian  armies  by  the  lake  of  Thrasymenus ,  where 

«  beneath  the  fray 
«  An  earthquake  reel'd  unheededly  away !  » 

( 5 )  —  «  Or  childhood ,  with  th'  assurance  of  an  age , 

«  That  stands  not  on  respect  of  rank  or  years , 
«  But ,  e'en  as  Cupid ,  ready  to  engage 

«  The  giant  of  Convention ,  freely  peers 
«  Its  face  into  a  king's ,  »  etc. 

See,  in  Shakespeare,  the  scene  between  the  usurping  Richard  and  the  two  young 
Princes,  or,  in  Sallust,  a  somewhat  similar  one  between  Jugurtha  and  his  juvenile 
cousins.  The  boys  ,  in  either  case ,  hit  hard  and  strike  home. 

Of  the  many  anecdotes  of  Frederic  the  Great  the  following  is  surely  not  the  least  amusing. 
The  monarch ,  it  appears,  was,  one  day,  busily  engaged  with  a  mass  of  papers,  while 
the  heir  to  the  throne  —  his  nephew,  then  a  mere  child  — was  playing  in  the  room,  just 
as  busy  with  his  battledore  and  shuttlecock.  The  king,  who  had  borne  the  interruption 
as  long  as  he  could,  losing  all  patience  at  last,  took  up  the  shuttlecock,  which  had  once 
more  fallen  upon  the  table,  and,  putting  it  into  his  pocket,  resumed  his  occupation. 


The  resolute  urchin,  after  having  begged  in  vain  to  have  it  restored  to  him,  losing 
patience  in  his  turn  ,  stuck  his  little  arms  a-kimbo ,  and ,  looking  the  hero  of  Rosbach 
fiercely  in  the  face ,  asked  him ,  with  a  menacing  tone  :  «  Does  your  majesty  intend  to 
<  give  me  back  my  shuttlecock  or  wo?»  uBravohi  said  Frederic,  laughing,  as  he  patted 
the  boy  on  the  head ,  and  returned  him  his  plaything ,  —  «  Bravo  !  you'//  never  give  up 
«  Silesia ,  I  see.  » 

(6,1 —  «  and  to  the  sage 

«  Responds  as  icide  as  Hotspur,  »  etc. 

«  I  then ,  all  smarting  with  my  wounds  being  cold 
<c  To  be  so  pester'd  with  a  popinjay, 
«  Out  of  my  grief  and  my  impatience, 
«  Answer'd  neglectingly ,  I  know  not  what, 
«  He  should ,  or  he  should  not. 

Shakespeare  ,  Part  I  of  Henry  IV. 

(  7 )  —  «  The  choice  syringa ,  that  an  odeur  throws 
«  At  times  as  luscious  as  the  alur-gul , 
«  For  whom  the  Hafiz  of  the  feather'd  throng 
a  In  Persia  pours  his  most  melodious  song ;  »  etc. 

As  Hafiz  among  the  Persian  poets,  so  is  the  Bulbul  among  the  Persian  singing-birds. 
Though ,  being  ignorant  of  the  oriental  originals ,  I  cannot  speak  to  the  fidelity  of  Miss 
Louisa  Costello's  Translations ,  I  am  competent  to  say ,  that  her  «.  rose  garden  of 
Persia  »  reads  as  if  the  renderings  were  as  excellent  as  they  are  elegant.  The  nightingale 
is  a  fine  feature  therein.  The  Eastern  Tales  of  Byron  have  told  us,  that  the  Atur-gul  is 
the  Otto-rose. 

( 8 )  —  <(  The  sumach ,  with  its  dark ,  congenial  leaves , 
«  So  fitly  form'd  some  welling  fount  to  shadi 
«  By  where  the  world-eschewing  poet  weaves 
«  His  sonnets  to  Vavcluse ,  »  etc. 

«  The  immediate  result  of  the  reflections,  thus  awakened,  was  his  retirement,  to  Yau- 
cluse.  When  a  boy,  he  had  visited  this  picturesque  valley  and  its  fountain ,  in  company 
with  his  father,  mother,  and  brother.  He  had  then  been  charmed  by  its  beauty  and 
seclusion :  and  now ,  weary  of  travelling ,  and  resolved  to  fly  from  Laura ,  he  took  refuge 
in  the  solitude  he  could  here  command. 

«  He  bought  a  small  house  and  field  ,  removed  his  books ,  and  established  himself. 
Since  then,  Vaucluse  has  been  often  visited  for  his  sake;  and  he,  who  was  enchanted  by 
its  loneliness  and  beauty,  has  described  ,  in  letters  and  verses ,  with  fond  and  glowing 


—  48  — 

expressions ,  the  charm  that  it  possessed  for  him.  The  valley  is  narrow,  as  its  name  tes- 
tifies,—  shut  in  by  high  and  craggy  hills;  the  river  Sorgue  traverses  its  depth;  and  on 
one  side ,  a  vast  cavern  in  the  precipitous  rock  presents  itself,  from  which  the  fountain 
flows ,  that  is  the  source  of  the  river.  Within  the  cave ,  the  shadows  are  black  as  night; 
the  hills  are  clothed  by  umbrageous  trees,  under  whose  shadow  the  tender  grass ,  star- 
red by  innumerable  flowers,  offers  agreeable  repose.  The  murmur  of  the  torrent  is 
perennial  :  that  and  the  song  of  the  birds  are  the  only  sounds  heard.  Such  was  the 
retreat,  that  the  poet  chose.  He  saw  none  but  the  peasanls,  who  took  care  of  his  house, 
and  tended  his  little  farm.  The  only  woman  near  was  the  hard-working  wife  of  the 
peasant,  old  and  withered.  No  sounds  of  music  visited  his  ears  :  he  heard ,  instead ,  the 
carolling  of  the  birds  and  the  brawling  waters.  Often  he  remained  in  silence  from 
morning  till  night ,  wandering  among  the  hills  while  the  sun  was  yet  low ;  and  taking 
refuge ,  during  the  heat  of  the  day,  in  his  shady  garden ,  which ,  sloping  down  towards 
the  Sorgue ,  was  terminated  on  one  side  by  inaccessible  rocks.  At  night,  after  performing 
his  clerical  duties ,  (  for  he  was  canon  of  Lombes  )  he  rambled  among  the  hills ;  often 
entering ,  at  midnight ,  the  cavern ,  whose  gloom ,  even  during  the  day ,  struck  the  soul 
with  awe. 

«  The  peasantry  about  him  were  poor  and  hardworking.  His  food  was  usually  black 
bread;  and  he  was  so  abstemious,  that  the  servant,  he  brought  with  him  from  Avignon, 
quitted  him ,  unable  to  endure  the  solitude  and  privations  of  his  retreat.  He  was  then 
waited  on  by  the  neighbouring  cottager,  a  fisherman ,  whose  life  had  been  spent  among 
fountains  and  rivers,  deriving  his  subsistence  from  the  rocks.  "To  call  this  man  faithful," 
says  Petrarch,  "is  a  tame  expression  :  he  was  fidelity  itself."  Without  being  able  to 
read ,  he  revered  and  cherished  the  books  his  master  loved ;  and ,  all  rude  and  illiterate, 
his  pious  regard  for  the  poet  raised  him  almost  to  the  rank  of  a  friend.  His  wife  was  yet 
more  rustic.  Her  skin  was  burned  by  the  sun  till  it  resembled  nothing  human.  She  was 
humble ,  faithful ,  and  laborious ;  passing  her  life  in  the  fields ,  working  under  the 
noonday  sun ;  while  the  evening  was  dedicated  to  indoor  labour.  She  never  complained, 
nor  ever  showed  any  mark  of  discontent.  She  slept  on  straw  :  her  food  was  the  coarsest 
black  bread ;  her  drink  water,  in  which  she  mingled  a  little  wine ,  as  sour  as  vinegar. 

« It  was  here,  that  Petrarch  hoped  to  subdue  his  passion,  and  to  forget  Laura.  "  Fool 
that  I  was,"  he  exclaims  in  after-life ,  "not  to  have  remembered  the  first  schoolboy 
lesson  ,— that  solitude  is  the  nurse  of  love !  "  How,  with  his  thoughts  for  his  sole  com- 
panions, preying  perpetually  on  his  own  heart,  could  he  forget  her,  who  occupied  him 
exclusively  in  courts  aud  cities?  And  thus  he  tells,  in  musical  and  thrilling  accents,  how, 
amidst  woods,  and  hills,  and  murmuring  waves,  her  image  was  painted  on  every  object, 
and  contemplated  by  him  till  he  forgot  himself  to  stone,  more  dead  than  the  living  rocks, 
among  which  he  wandered.  » 

Life  of  Petrarch. 


_  49  — 

(9) — «  A  soft  retreat,  and  one,  that  softly  drew 

((  The  soul  of  Hoschus  with  the  'pen  of  Moore , 

«  In  lines  so  simple  and  so  polish' d  too , 
«  And  such  as  to  itself  the  heart  says  o'er, 

«  Recalling ,  as  those  placid  pictures  do , 

«  A  something  it  has  known  or  dream'd  before, 

«  And  showing  to  the  cold  and  harass' d  breast 

((  The  warm,  still  images  of  love  and  rest; — -  » 

Who ,  of  that  time  of  day,  can  forget  Moore's  popular  song  of  the  woodpecker  , 
thereof  the  second  stanza  begins  thus  : 

«  By  the  shade  of  yon  sumach ,  whose  red  berry  dips 
«  In  the  gush  of  the  fountain ,  how  sweet  to  recline , 

«  And  to  know ,  that  I  sigh'd  upon  innocent  lips , 
«  Which  ne'er  had  been  sigh'd  on  by  any  but  mine !  »■ 

(10)  —  «  The  Rose,  coeval  ivith  the  Queen  of  Love, 

— «  The  Queen  of  Flow'rs  with  Cupid's  mother  bom,  » — 

I  beg  to  acknowledge,  for  the  first  six  lines  of  this  stroph,  my  poetic  obligations 
to  Parny's  «  Naissance  de  la  Rose,  »  which  elsewhere  I  have  done  into  English. 

(11)  —  «  The  Rose,  that  blush' d  on  Helen's  cheek ,  and  charm' d 

«  The  gaze  of  Troy ,  and  all  its  ire  disarm' d.  » 

How  exquisite  is  Homer !  Have  the  ages ,  which  have  intervened ,  produced  a  truer, 
a  finer,  a  more  touching  tribute  to  the  power  of  Beauty  than  the  tender  treatment 
of  Helen  in  the  Iliad?  Take,  for  instance,  that  part  of  the  third  book ,  where  Priam 
and  his  grey-haired  counsellors  are  sunning  themselves  on  the  ramparts  of  the  devoted 
city,  which,  owing  to  her,  is  doomed  so  soon  to  fall! 

«  These,  when  the  Spartan  queen  approach'd  the  tow'r, 

«  In  secret  own'd  resistless  beauty's  pow'r  : 

«  They  cri'd,  No  wonder  such  celestial  charms 

«  For  nine  long  years  have  set  the  world  in  arms. 

((  What  winning  graces !  what  majestic  mien ! 

«  She  moves  a  Goddess ,  and  she  looks  a  Queen ! 

«  Yet  hence,  oh  heaven!  convey  that  fatal  face, 

«  And  from  destruction  save  the  Trojan  race. 

«  The  good  old  Priam  welcom'd  her,  and  cri'd, 

«  Approach ,  my  child ,  and  grace  thy  father's  side. 

«  See  on  the  plain  thy  Grecian  spouse  appears, 

«  The  friends  and  kindred  of  thy  former  years. 


—  50  — 

«  No  crime  of  thine  our  present  suff'ring  draws , 
«  Not  thou ,  but  heaven's  disposing  will ,  the  cause ; 
«  The  Gods  these  armies  and  this  force  employ, 
— «  The  hostile  Gods  conspire  the  fate  of  Troy.  » 

Pope. 

(12)  —  «  The  Myrtle,  ever  typical  and  true, 

«  (  The  emblem  of  her  own  enchanting  isle , ) 
«  Which  never  knows  fas  Cyprus  never  knew) 
<c  A  change  come  o'er  her,  even  for  a  while ;  » — 

«  Chypre ,  Tune  des  plus  grandes  isles  de  la  mer  M^diterranee.  On  la  nomma 
autrefois  Macaria,  i.  e. ,  hen-reuse,  fortune'e.  On  prdtend,  que  ce  fut  a  cause  de 
sa  fertilite.  Les  principales  villes  6taient  Salamis  et  Paphos ,  dont  l'une  avait  un 
lemple  de  Jupiter  et  l'autre  de  Venus.  Toute  l'isle  dtait  consacree  a  cette  D^esse , 

que  Stetichore  et  Horace  appellent  Cypregenie ,  i.  e.,  nee  en  Chypre Chypre 

est  un  des  plus  delicieux  sejours  du  monde  :  l'air  est  si  doux,  que  les  jardins  y  sont 
remplis  de  fleurs  en  tout  temps.  » 

Dictionnaire  Universel  de  Trevoux. 

Seeing,  that  the  isle  of  Cyprus  was,  par  delices,  the  chosen  spot  of  the  most 
choice  among  the  goddesses ,  the  account  of  it  in  Fdnelon's  prose  epic  is  surely  some- 
what meagre ;  but ,  perhaps ,  it  was  tender  ground  for  an  Arch-Bishop  to  tread  upon. 

( 13  )  —  «  The  Lily,  of  the  ican  and  slighted  hue , 

(i  That  wears  by  day  a  tear-repressing  smile , 
«  But  hangs  her  head  when  darkness  veils  the  lea  , 
«  And,  like  Griselda,  mourns  ivhen  none  can  see; —  » 

The  beautiful ,  affecting  story  of  «  The  patient  Griselda ,  »  known  to  us  from  the 
nursery ,  has  something  beside  itself  to  recommend  it.  *  A  translation  of  it  into 

« It  is  a  singular  circumstance ,  that  one  of  the  last  acts  of  Petrarch  was  to  read  the  "  Decameron." 
Notwithstanding  his  intimate  friendship  with  the  author  during  twenty  years ,  Boccaccio's  modesty 
prevented  his  speaking  of  the  work  ,  and  it  fell  into  Petrarch's  hands  by  chance.  "  1  have  not  had 
lime,"  he  writes  to  his  friend,  "  to  read  the  whole,  so  that  I  am  not  a  fair  judge;  but  it  has 
pleased  me  exceedingly.  Its  great  freedom  is  sufficiently  excused  by  the  age,  at  which  you  wrote 
it,  the  lightness  of  the  subject,  and  of  the  readers,  for  whom  it  was  destined.  With  many  gay 
and  laughable  things  are  mingled  many  ,  that  are  serious  and  pious.  I  have  read  principally  at 
the  beginning  and  end.  Your  description  of  the  state  of  our  country  during  the  plague  appears  to 
me  very  true  and  very  pathetic.  The  tale  at  the  conclusion  made  so  lively  an  impression  on  me , 
that  1  committed  it  to  memory ,  that  1  might  sometimes  relate  in  to  my  friends.  " 

■  This  is  the  story  of  Griselda.  Petrarch  translated  it  into  Latin  for  the  sake  of  those ,  who  did 
not  understand  Italian,  and  often  read  it,  and  had  it  read  to  him.  He  relates,  lhat  frequently  the 


—  51  — 

Latin ,  after  he  had  learnt  Boccaccio's  Italian  tale  by  heart ,  was  almost  the  last 
literary  work  of  his  friend  Petrarch ,  from  whom  again  it  was  taken  and  cast  into 
verse  by  our  own  rich  and  racy  Chaucer.  It  is  difficult — very,  very  difficult — to  some 
indeed  impossible — to  read  the  touching  trials  of  Lord  Walter's  wife  without  tears.  To 
me  at  least,  however  much  I  may  have  been  struck  with  the  vigorous  handling  of 
«  Palamon  and  Arcite , »  «  The  Scholar's  Tale  »  ( I  am  speaking  of  twenty  years  ago ) 
seemed  to  be  the  chef-d' centre  of  old  Geoffry.  The  Canterbury  Tales,  though  unhappily 
open  to  the  same  objection  as  those  of  Boccaccio ,  are  as  full  of  .varied  genius  as  can 
well  be.  In  them  it  is,  that,  to  the  greatest  possible  extent,  we  meet  with  what  is 
called  freshness.  The  opening  lines  really  drop  upon  the  heart  like  the  April  showerlets 
they  describe.  1  speak  not,  however,  of  the  first  reading,  nor  even  of  the  second, 
for,  certes ,  the  old  English  is  a  something  to  overcome;  and  the  old  rhythm  too , 
for  that  matter.  But  never  will  trouble  be  remunerated  more. 

(14)  —  (i  The  stori'd  Clytie, — she,  that,  to  her  bane, 

<c  Allur'd  of  old  Apollo's  ardent  eye , 
«  Which  punish' d  her  with  passion ,  »  etc. 

«  Clytia  or  Clytie ,  a  daughter  of  Oceanus  and  Tethys,  beloved  by  Apollo.  She 
was  deserted  by  her  lover  for  Leucothoe,  which  so  irritated  her,  that  she  discovered 
the  whole  intrigue  to  her  rival's  father,  king  Orchamus,  who  ordered  his  daughter 
to  be  buried  alive.  Apollo  despised  Clytie  the  more  for  all  this ,  and  she  pined  away, 
and  was  changed  into  a  sun-flower,  which  still  turns  its  head  towards  him  in  his 
course,  as  in  pledge  of  love.  » 

Lempriere. 

The  story  of  Clytie  forms  one  of  Ovid's  charming  Metamorphoses,  vide  Book  iv, 
fable  hi. — 

(15)  —  «  And  others ,  too,  of  pure  poetic  cast, 

«  Rise  ivith  his  rise ,  and  with  his  setting  set , 
«  As  he — ivhose  vivid  poiv'rs  impair' d  at  last, 
«  When  age  and  sickness  in  his  body  met, — 

friend,  who  read  it,  broke  off,  interrupted  by  tears.  Among  others,  to  whom  he  communicated  this 
favourite  tale,  was  our  English  poet  Chaucer,  who,  in  his  prologue  to  the  story  of  Griselda,  says, 
that  he 

«  Learned  it  at  Padowe  of  a  worthy  clcrkc  , 
Francia  Petrarch.  » 
Chaucer  had  been  sent  ambassador  to  Genoa  just  at  this   lime. 

«  The  letter  to  Boccaccio,  accompanying  the  Lalin  translation  of  the  story,  was  probabh  the  last, 
that  Petrarch  ever  wrote.  » 

Life  of  Petr,hci[. 


—  52  — 

«  Unconscious  ivas  of  present  and  of  past 

«  From  twilight  to  the  daivn ,  but ,  rallying  yet  ,■ 
«  Began  to  gather  ivith  the  orient  ray, 
«  A  dim  idea  of  the  yesterday,  »  etc. 

For  this  very  curious  and  very  interesting  anecdote — I  cannot  vouch  for  the  /acf— 
I  am  indebted  either  to  sir  Walter  Scott's  « Lives  of  the  Novelists »  or  to  a  memoir 
of  Lesage ,  prefixed  to  an  Edition ,  which  I  have  in  England  ,  of  «  Le  Diable  Boiteux.  » 
( It  is  sorry  work  to  write  notes  without  books. )  Lesage  died  at  Boulogne-sur-Mer. 

(16)  —  «  And  so?ne  are  up  and  out  upon  the  meads, 

«  As  when  the  horned  Pan  of  classic  yore 
«  Was  zvo?it  to  ivatch  for  Syrinx  in  the  reeds, 

«  And  Pluto  gather 'd  Proserpine,  and  bore 
«  The  pallid  victim  with  his  sooty  steeds 

((  Away  to  Acheron's  untimely  shore, 
((  The  while  her  flow'rs  kept  dropping  in  the  wake , 
<i  And,  wet  with  tears,  made  Ceres'  heart  to  ache.  » 

Pan  and  Syrinx,  (whence  the  Pandean  pipes,)  Pluto  and  Proserpine,  and  the' 
weary-footed  search  of  Ceres  for  her  daughter, — Ovid  again,  and  Milton  eke,  witness- 
his 

«  Proserpine ,  gathering  flowers , 
— «  Herself  a  fairer  flower, — by  gloomy  Dis 
«  Was  cuU'd.  » 

(17)  —  a  As  many  a  mortal  heart  doth  ache  the  same, 

«  When  Youth,  the  spioil  of  Atrophy ,  bequeaths 
«  The  touching  tokens  of  a  sever'd  claim  , 
— «  As  full  of  sorroiv  as  the  scatter' d  ivreaths , 
«  That  fell  from  Dis's  car,— for  love  and  fame 

<c  To  twine  into  a  coronal ,  that  breathes 
«  Of  early  amaranth ,  and  cannot  die , 
a  Nor  Mason's  strophe ,  nor  Shelly' s  monody ;  »— 

Mary  Tighe,  Richard  Bowdler,  Henry  Kirke  White,  John  Keats,  John  Stirling,  (only 
of  the  other  day,  and  full  of  promise,) — such  are  a  scantling  of  the  victims  of 
Consumption, — that  fell  disease,  which  has  robbed  Literature,  the  Arts  and  Sciences, 
to  a  deplorable  amount. 

But  of  «  Mason's  stroph  and  Shelly's  monody. » 

The  latter,  called  the  Adonais ,  was  written  by  his  warm  admirer  in  honour  of 
poor  Keats ,  author  of  Endymion ,  Hyperion ,  etc.  of  whom  Byron  says ,  in  his  Don 


—  53  — 

Juan,  that  he  makes  the  gods  talk  just  as  we  should  suppose  them  to  have  talked . 
and  a  copy  of  whose  poems  was  found  in  Shelly's  pocket,  when  his  drowned  corpse 
was  picked  up  off  the  coast  of  Italy.  The  former,  which  for  its  exceeding  and  chaste 
beauty  I  transcribe,  is  to  be  seen  on  a  tablet  in  Bristol  Cathedral. 

EPITAPH    ON    NT5    MASON. 

Take,  holy  earth!  all,  that  my  soul  holds  dear; 

Take  that  best  gift ,  which  Heav'n  so  lately  gave : 
To  Bristol's  fount  I  bore  with  trembling  care 

Her  faded  form;  she  bow'd  to  taste  the  wave, 
And  died.  Does  youth,  does  beauty,  read  the  line? 

Does  sympathetic  fear  their  breasts  alarm? 
Speak ,  dead  Maria !  breathe  a  strain  divine  : 

E'en  from  the  grave  thou  shalt  have  pow'r  to  charm. 
Bid  them  be  chaste,  be  innocent  like  thee; 

Bid  them  in  duty's  sphere  as  meekly  move; 
And,  if  so  fair,  from  vanity  as  free, 

As  firm  in  friendship ,  and  as  fond  in  love , 
Tell  them ,  though  'tis  an  awful  thing  to  die , 
( 'Twas  e'en  to  thee )  yet ,  the  dread  path  once  trod , 
Heav'n  lifts  its  everlasting  portals  high , 
And  bids  «the  pure  in  heart  behold  their  God.  » 

(18)  —  «  A  dainty  change,  alt/w'  the  chany'd  alas  1 

«  Was  doom'd  no  more  a  title  to  retain , 
«  As  meet  for  perpetuity  as  was 

«  Or  his ,  whom  Envy  slew  upon  the  plain , 
«  Or  his ,  who  por'd  upon  the  fatal  glass 

«  Of  Vanity ,  that  fooleth  wiser  men , 
«  Because  the  sage  complacence,  that  can  stoop 
«  To  self  alone ,  is  sure  to  be  a  dupe ; —  » 

First ,  for  Adonis. 

«  Then  on  the  flow'r  sweet  nectar  she  bestows ; 

«  The  scented  blood  in  little  bubbles  rose 

«  Short  time  ensu'd ,  till ,  where  the  blood  was  shed  , 
*  «  A  flow'r  began  to  rear  its  purple  head... 
«  Still  here  the  fate  of  lovely  forms  we  see , 
«  So  sudden  fades  the  sweet  anemonie. 

* «  Flos  e  sanguine  concolor  ortus.  » 


—  54  — 

«  The  feeble  stems ,  to  stormy  blasts  a  prey , 
«  Their  sickly  beauties  droop  and  pine  away. 
*  «  The  winds  forbid  the  flow'rs  to  flourish  long, 
K  Which  owe  to  winds  their  names  in  Grecian  song.  » 

Ovid's  Metam.  Book  X. 

The  anemone ,  then ,  ( from  anemos ,  the  wind , )  is  obviously  the  flower,  into  which 
the  handsome  boy  was  changed,  but  the',  so-called  flos  Adonis  would  seem  to  answer 
the  description  still  better,  quoad  the  colouring  of  the  leaves.— 

(i  Shining  as  satin  from  the  loom , 

((  Deep  glowing  with  a  crimson  dye, 
«  Adonises  are  now  in  bloom , 

<c  Call'd  by  the  rustic ,  pheasant's  eye.  » 

Wild-Flowers  ,  by  A.  S.  T. 

Loudon ,  in  his  elaborate  «  Encyclopwdia  of  Plants ,  »  writes  :  «  Adonis ,  the -plant , 
which  sprang  from  the  blood  of  Adonis ,  when  killed  by  the  boar.))  The  Ovid-reader 
and  the  botanist  must  settle  the  point  between  them. 

Slyacinthus  was  killed  by  Zephyrus ,  who ,  as  the  boy  was  playing  quoits  with 
Apollo,  (how  very  funny!)  enviously  blew  the  iron  ring  upon  his  head.  Apollo 
changed  him  into  the  flower,  which  bears  his  name.  Narcissus  requires  no  other 
mention,  than  that  the  exquisite  original  of  Ovid  is  most  marvellously  well  rendered 
by  Addison.  To  throw  the  matter  of  two  notes  into  one,  let  me  add,  that  the 
nymph  Echo,  slighted  by  Narcissus,  pined  herself  into  a  mere  voice, — «  vox  et 
prwterca  nihil.  » — 

( 19 )  —  «  And  some — the  wild  and  interweaving  things  , 
«  As  shy  as  those  small  foresters  ,  the  elves , 
«  That  link  their  little  hands  by  mossy  springs , 
((  And  hide  in  haunts  as  sylvan  as  themselves , 
it  (The  sweetest  sure  of  sweet  imaginings ! J  » — 

If  the  reader  wishes  for  a  rare  treat,  and  to  love  Shakespeare  still  more,  let 
him  peruse  «  The  Plea  of  the  Midsummer  Fairies,  »  by  Thomas  Hood,  whose  comica- 
lities of  rhyme,  however  clever,  are,  in  my  opinion,  very  inferior  to  hisother— and 
especially  his  serious — poetry.  «  Miss  Kilmansegg  and  her  precious  leg ,  »  to  be  sure, 
is  enough  to  make  a  body  laugh  in  its  coffin ,  being ,  like  his  novel  of  Tilney  Hall  j 
a  perfect  fusillade  of  fun , — a  regular  mitraille  of  merriment. 

"  n  Namque  male  ha?rentem  ,  et  nimia  levitate  caducum  , 
«  Excuiiunt  idem  ,  qui  prwstant  npmina ,  venii.  » 


—  55  — 

20) —  «  The  Lilies  of  the  Nile,  as  justly  proud 
«  As  Cleopatra ,  sailing  in  her  barge , 
«  Who,  glancing  at  the  flood,  that  mirror' d  there 
k  Her  queenly  face ,  saw  nothing  else  so  fair ;  » — 

«  The  barge  she  sat  in ,  like  a  burnish'd  throne . 
«  Burn'd  on  the  water  :  the  poop  was  beaten  gold ; 
«  Purple  the  sails ,  and  so  perfumed ,  that 
«  The  winds  were  lovesick  with  them ;  the  oars  were  silver , 
«  Which  to  the  tune  of  flutes  kept  stroke,  and  made 
«  The  waters,  which  they  beat,  to  follow  faster, 
«  As  amorous  of  their  strokes.  For  her  own  person , 
«  It  beggar'd  all  description  :  she  did  lie 
«  In  her  pavilion ,  ( cloth  of  gold ,  of  tissue , ) 
«  O'er-picturing  that  Venus,  where  we  see 
a  The  fancy  out-work  nature  :  on  each  side  her 
<(  Stood  pretty  dimpled  boys ,  like  smiling  Cupids , 
«  With  diyers-colour'd  fans ,  whose  wind  did  seem 
<c  To  glow  the  delicate  cheeks ,  which  they  did  cool . 
«  And  what  they  undid',  did. 
Agr.  0,  rare  for  Antony!  » — 

Shakespeare's  Antony  and  Cleopatra. 

(21)  —  «  And  sometimes,  in  a  sort  of  plaintive  mirth, 

it. (As  men,  at  whiles,  take  up  the  catch  of  care, 
«  And  ring  the  changes  on  a  woe  of  earth,)  » 

«  Lamb  never  fairly  recovered  the  death  of  Coleridge.  He  thought  of  little  else 
,  his  sister  was  but  another  portion  of  himself)  until  his  own  great  spirit  joined 
his  friend.  He  had  a  habit  of  venting  his  melancholy  in  a  sort  of  mirth.  He  would , 
with  nothing  graver  than  a  pun,  cleanse  his  bosom  of  the  perilous  stuff,  that 
weighed  upon  it.  In  a  jest,  or  a  few  light  phrases,  he  would  lay  open  the  last 
recesses  of  his  heart.  So  in  respect  of  the  death  of  Coleridge.  Some  old  friends 
of  his  saw  him  two  or  three  weeks  ago ,  and  remarked  the  constant  turning  and 
reference  of  his  mind.  He  interrupted  himself  and  them  almost  every  instant  with 
some  play  of  affected  wonder,  or  astonishment,  or  humourous  melancholy  on  the 
words  «  Coleridge  is  dead.))  Nothing  could  divert  him  from  that,  for  the  thought 
of  it  never  left  him.  » 

Biographical  Memoir  of  Charles  Lamb. 


'  —  56  — 

(22)  —  «  The  scatter 'd  fragments  of  a  glorious  light , 

«  That  puts  to  shame  the  seven-colour' d  bmv 
«  Of  Eve ,  and  saddens  Iris  with  the  sight , 
«  Hoiv  bravely  well  the  living  atoms  blow  !  » 

Of  the  six  and  twenty  stanzas ,  which  compose  Cowley's  Hymn  to  Light ,  the 
subjoined  three  are  by  no  means  the  best;  the  reader,  then,  not  conversant  therewith, 
may  think  what  delicious  poetry  it  is  ! 

«  All  the  world's  brav'ry,  that  delights  our  eyes , 
«  Is  but  thy  sev'ral  liveries ; 
«  Thou  the  rich  dye  on  them  bestow'st  : 
«  Thy  nimble  pencil  paints  this  landskip  as  thou  go'st. 

«  A  crimson  garment  in  the  rose  thou  wear'st ; 
«  A  crown  of  studded  gold  thou  bear'st; 
«  The  virgin-lilies ,  in  their  white , 
«  Are  clad  but  with  the  lawn  of  almost  naked  light. 

«  The  violet,  Spring's  little  infant,  stands 
«  Girt  in  thy  purple  swaddling-bands-; 
«  On  the  fair  tulip  thou  dost  doat , 
«  And  cloth'st  it  in  a  gay  and  party-colour'd  coat.  » — • 

(23)  —  «  Would  seem,  as  if,  thus  emulously  dig/tt , 

«  They  hail'd  the  birth  of  Hermes ,  or  as  tho' 
(i  They  met  upon  the  soil ,  so  richly  gay , 
«  To  keep  the  anniversary  of  May;  » — 

Hermes ,  or  Mercury ,  was  the  son  of  Maia  and  Jupiter. 


VOTES    to    HOME. 


(1) — «  And,  though  my  vari'd  worship  be 
«  As  common  as  humanity, 
«  /  hear  but  on  a  single  shore 
«  A  word  for  what  the  rest  adore.  » 

Our  endearing  word  of  a  Home,  »  in  its  wide  acceptation ,  is  by  no  means  matched 
by  the  German  one  of  «heim,»  which  merely  seems  to  apply  to  tone's  native  country. » 
In  a  domestic  sense,  ««ac/t»  or  «zu  hausev  is  but  a  sorry  reading  for  uat  Home.  » 

(2)  —  «  His  wine  the  blessed  well.  » 

From  their  intrinsic  value  and  their  scriptural  associations ,  the  wells  in  the  desert , 
like  Mercy,  are  « twice  blessed."  No  wonder  they  should  be  held  sacred. 

(3)  —  «  And,  bending  o'er  his  saddle-bow, 

«  Is  sweeping  like  the  wind,  for  now 
<(  He  sees  the  ostrich  stride  away, 
■ — «  The  same ,  that  beat  him  yesterday.  » 

«  Pour  essayer  la  force  de  ses  animaux ,  je  fls  monter  un  negre  de  taille  sur  la 
plus  petite ,  et  deux  autres  sur  la  plus  grosse  :  cette  charge  ne  parut  pas  dispro- 
portionnee  a  leur  vigueur  5  d'abord  elles  trotterent  un  petit  galop  des  plus  serres  •, 
ensuite,  lorsqu'on  Ies  eiit  un  peu  excitees,  elles  etendirent  leurs  ailes  comme  pour 
prendre  le  vent ,  et  s'abandonnerent  a  une  telle  vitesse ,  qu'elles  semblaient  perdre 
terre.  Je  suis  persuade ,  qu'elles  auraient  laisse  bien  derriere  elles  les  plus  fiers 
chevaux  anglais.  » 

M.  Adanson,  Voyage  en  Senegal. 

«  Les  Arabes  peuvent  done  diriger  leur  marche  sur  un  cercle  concentrique  interieur, 
par  consequent  plus  etroit,  et  les  suivre  toujours  a  une  juste  distance,  en  faisant  beau- 
coup  'moins  de  chemin  qu'elles.  Lorsqu'ils  les  ont  ainsi  fatiguees  et  affamees  pendant 
un  ou  deux  jours ,  ils  prennent  leur  moment ,  fondent  sur  elles  au  grand  galop ,  en  les 
menant  contre  le  vent  autant  qu'il  est  possible,  et  les  tuent  a  coup  de  baton  pour 
que  le  sang  ne  gate  point  le  beau  blanc  de  leurs  plumes.  » 

Buffon. 

( 4 )  —  <c  And  in  the  crowded  city  view 

<(  The  desert-bird  in  narrow  mew , 

«  He  bans  the  hour,  that  bade  him  roam, 

<(  And  heaves  a  sigh  for  happy  HOME.  » 


—  58  — 

As  I  was  sauntering,  some  years  ago,  through  the  Zoological  Gardens  in  The 
Regent's  Park,  I  was  struck  by  the  appearance  of  a  white-turbaned ,  white-vested 
foreigner,  who  was  holding  out  his  hand,  with  a  few  pebbles  in  it,  to  the  ostrich 
of  the  menagerie.  After  standing  by  his  side  a  minute  or  two  in  silence,  I  ventured 
to  say  to  him  in  French,  a Apparemment ,  Monsieur,  cet  oiseau-la  est  de  vos  con- 
naissances?  nOui,i>  replied  the  Arab  with  a  sigh,  «je  pense  a  rnon  pays.)) 

( 5 )  —  «  The  hind ,  whose  sorry  farm  is  in 
a  The  fens ,  that  never  cease 
«  To  echo  the  discordant  din 

«  Of  waterfowl  and  geese ,  »  etc. 

«  Halloo  I  halloo ! »  shouted  out  a  duck-shooter  to  his  missing  brother-sportsman 
in  an  osiered  swamp  of  the  Lincolnshire  fens.  «  Ya-hipl  Ya-hiph)  responded  the  voice 
of  the  other.  «  Whereabouts  are  ye?v  «  here.  »  —  «  What  are  ye  up  to  ?  »  «  my  middle,  n 
The  answer  was  worthy  of  a  Scotchman. 

(  6 )  —  (c  To  him's  an  azure-ether' d  Greece 
«  That  misty  level  dim;  »  etc. 

Mr  N.  P.  Willis,  in  his  'Pencillings  by  the  Way,'  describes  the  sky  of  Greece 
as  finer  even  than  that  of  Italy.  They,  that  love  disputation,  may  find  a  rare  field 
for  it  in  the  following  thesis  :  The  influence  of  atmosphere  on  the  intellect  of  man. 
Egypt,  the  cradle  of  the  arts  and  sciences,  Greece,  Italy,  Sicily,  and  Spain, — we 
all  of  us  have  heard  of  their  glorious  air  and  of  the  glorious  minds ,  which  would 
appear  to  have  been  fostered  by  it.  What  then?  not  to  multiply  instances,  the  heart  of 
foggy  England  gave  birth  to  astonishing  Shakespeare ;  Newton  was  a  native  of  Lincoln- 
shire; two  narrow  streets  of  London  and  of  Paris,  long  before  the  days  of  city-ventilation, 
produced,  respectively,  Milton  and  Moliere;  Burke  and  Sheridan,  Swift  and  Sterne, 
came  from  rainy  Ireland ;  Johnson  and  Garrick  have  immortalized  Lichfield ;  the 
learned  Grotius  was  born  at  Delft,  and  the  great  Erasmus  at  Rotterdam;  Verrier, — 
he  of  the  eighth  planet, — who,  with  a  sublime  deduction  like  that  of  Columbus, 
discovered,  but  the  other  day,  a  world  of  light  in  the  sea  of  space,  is  of  Granville, 
a  dirty  sea-port  town  on  the  coast  of  Normandy,  etc.  etc.  etc. 

(7)  —  k  The  miner's  selj ,  that ,  strange  to  say, 
u  Was  born  the  earth  below , 
«  And  never  saw  the  orb  of  day 

<(  Its  shifting  shadow  throw  »  etc. 

«  These  celebrated  excavations  are  about  five  miles  distant  from  the  city  of  Cracow, 
in  a  small  town  named  Wielicza,  which  is  entirely  undermined  ,  the  cavities  reaching 


—  59  — 

to  a  considerable  extent  beyond  its  limits.  The  length  of  the  great  mine,  from  east  to 
west .  is  six  thousand  feet ;  its  greatest  depth  eight  hundred  :  but  the  veins  of  salt  are 
not  limited  to  this  extent ,  the  depth  and  length  of  them ,  from  east  to  west,  being  yet 
unknown,  and  their  breadth  only  hitherto  determined.  There  are  at  present  ten  shafts, 
but  not  a  single  spring  has  been  discovered  throughout  the  extent  of  the  mine. 

« In  descending  to  the  bottom ,  the  visitor  is  surprised  to  find  a  kind  of  subterraneous 
commonwealth  ,  consisting  of  many  families,  who  have  their  peculiar  laws  and  polity. 
Here  are  likewise  public  roads  and  carriages ,  horses  being  employed  to  draw  the  salt 
to  the  mouths  of  the  mine,  where  it  is  taken  up  by  engines.  These  horses,  when  once 
arrived  at  their  destination ,  never  more  see  the  light  of  the  sun ;  and  many  of  the 
people  seem  buried  alive  in  this  strange  abyss,  having  been  born  there,  and  never 
stirring  out ;  while  others  are  not  denied  frequent  opportunities  of  breathing  the  fresh 
air  in  the  fields,  and  enjoying  the  surrounding  prospects.  The  subterraneous  passage's, 
or  galleries,  are  very  spacious ,  and  in  many  of  them  chapels  are  hewn  out  of  the  rock- 
salt.  In  these  passages  crucifixes  are  set  up,  together  with  the  images  of  saints,  before 
which  a  light  is  kept  constantly  burning.  The  places,  where  the  salt  is  hewn  out,  and 
the  empty  cavities ,  whence  it  has  been  removed ,  are  called  chambers ,  in  several  of 
which,  where  the  water  has  stagnated,  the  bottoms  and  sides  are  covered  with  very 
thick  incrustations  of  thousands  of  salt  crystals,  lying  one  on  the  other,  and  many  of 
them  weighing  half  a  pound  and  upwards.  When  candles  are  placed  before  them ,  the 
numerous  rays  of  light,  reflected  by  these  crystals,  emit  a  surprising  lustre. 

«  In  several  parts  of  the  mine  huge  columns  of  salt  are  left  standing ,  to  support  the 
rock;  and  these  are  very  fancifully  ornamented.  But  the  most  curious  object  in  the 
inhabited  part ,  or  subterraneous  town ,  is  a  statue ,  which  is  considered  by  the  im- 
mured inhabitants  as  the  actual  transmutation  of  Lot's  wife  into  a  pillar  of  salt;  and , 
in  proportion  as  this  statue  appears  either  dry  or  moist,  the  state  of  the  weather 
above  ground  is  inferred.  The  windings  in  this  mine  are  so  numerous  and  intricate, 
that  the  workmen  have  frequently  lost  their  way ;  and  several ,  whose  lights  have  been 
.extinguished,  have  thus  perished.  The  number  of  miners,  to  whom  it  gives  employ- 
ment,  is  computed  at  between  four  and  five  hundred;  but  the  whole  amount  of  the 
men  employed  in  it  is  about  seven  hundred.  » 


Revd  C.  ,C.  Clarke. 


( 8 )  —  «  The  Elephanta  Caves 


«An  anecdote  is  related  by  Mr  Forbes,  in  his  Oriental  Memoirs,  relative  to  these 
sculptured  monuments.  He  accompanied  an  eminent  English  Artist  on  his  first  visit 
to  the  Elephanta.  "After  the  glare  of  a  tropical  sun,  during  the  walk  from  the  landing- 
place,  it  was  some  time  before  the  eye  had  accommodated  itself  to  the  gloom  of  these 
subterraneous  chambers,  sufficiently  to  discriminate  objects  in  that  sombre  light.  We 
remained  for  several  minutes  without  speaking,  or  looking  particularly  at  each  other: 


—  60  — 

at  length,  when  more  familiarized  to  the  cavern,  my  companion  still  remaining  silent, 
I  expressed  some  fear  'of  having  been  too  warm  in  my  description ,  and  that ,  like 
most  other  objects,  the  reality  fell  short  of  the  anticipated  pleasure.  He  soon  relieved 
my  anxiety  by  declaring ,  that ,  however  highly  he  had  raised  his  imagination ,  he 
was  so  absorbed  in  astonishment  and  delight,  on  entering  this  stupendous  scene, 
as  to  forget  where  he  was.  He  had  seen  the  most  striking  objects  of  art  in  Italy  and 
Greece;  but  never  any  thing  which  filled  his  mind  with  such  extraordinary  sensations. » 

( 9 )  —  «  Is  even  as  the  sparry  shine 

«  In  Antiparos'  grot.  » 

«  The  mode  of  descent  is  by  ropes ,  which ,  on  the  different  declivities ,  are  either 
held  by  the  guides,  or  are  joined  to  a  cable,  which  is  fastened  at  the  entrance  around  a 
stalactite  pillar.  In  this  manner,  we  were  conducted  first  down  one  declivity,  and 
then  down  another,  until  we  entered  the  spacious  chambers  of  this  truly  enchanted 
grotto.  The  roof,  the  floor,  the  sides  of  a  whole  series  of  magnificent  caverns,  were 
entirely  invested  with  a  dazzling  incrustation  as  white  as  snow.  Columns,  some  of  which 
were  five-and-twenty  feet  in  length ,  pended  in  fine  icicle  forms  above  our  heads  : 
fortunately,  some  of  them  are  so  far  above  the  reach  of  the  numerous  travellers, 
who ,  during  many  ages,  have  visited  this  place,  that  no  one  has  been  able  to  injure 
or  to  remove  them.  Others  extended  from  the  roof  to  the  floor,  with  diameters  equal 
to  that  of  the  mast  of  a  first-rate  ship  of  the  line.  The  incrustations  of  the  floor, 
caused  by  falling  drops  from  the  stalactites  above,  had  grown  up  into  dendritic  and 
vegetable  forms,  which  first  suggested  to  Tournefort  the  strange  notion  of  his  having 
here  discovered  the  vegetation  of  stones.  Vegetation  itself  has  been  considered  as  a 
species  of  crystallization;  and,  as  the  process  of  crystallization  is  so  surprisingly 
manifested  by  several  phaenomena  in  this  grotto ,  some  analogy  may  perhaps  be 
allowed  to  exist  between  the  plant  and  the  stone ;  but  it  cannot  be  said ,  that  a 
principle  of  life,  existing  in  the  former,  has  been  imparted  to  the  latter.  The  last 
chamber,  into  which  we  descended,  surprised  me  more  by  the  grandeur  of  its  exhibition 
than  any  other.  Probably,  there  are  many  other  chambers  below  this,  yet  unexplored, 
for  no  attempt  has  been  made  to  penetrate  farther  :  and ,  if  this  be  true,  the  new 
caverns ,  when  opened ,  would  appear  in  perfect  splendour,  unsullied ,  in  any  part 
of  them,  by  the  smoke  of  torches,  or  by  the  hands  of  intruders.  » 

Dr  Clark. 

(10)  —  «  /  know  a  surer  sorcerer, 

<(  Than  ever  ivav'd  the  rod 
«  Above  an  eastern  sepulcre ,  »  etc, 

I  was  once  the  stage-coach  companion  of  a  military  officer,  who  had  recently  returned 
from  India  by  the  overland  route.  His  description  of  certain  feats  of  magic,  such 


—  61  — 

as  showing  the  faces  of  departed  persons  in  a  mirror,  which  he  stated  himself  to 
have  seen  performed  at  Aleppo  or  Damascus ,  was  absolutely  quite  startling.  He  spoke 
with  great  earnestness  upon  the  subject,  and  confessed  himself  at  an  utter  loss  how 
to  account  for  what  he  had  witnessed.  The  conjurers  of  the  East  have  ever  had  a 
great  name.  That  their  skill  wras  eminent,  even  in  the  time  of  our  Saviour,  may 
be  safely  inferred  by  the  following  citations  from  Paley's  Evidences  of  Christianity, 
Chap.  v.  Part.  in. 

aBut  to  return  to  the  Christian  apologists  in  their  order.  Tertullian  :— "That  person, 
whom  the  Jews  had  vainly  imagined ,  from  the  meanness  of  his  appearance ,  to  be 
a  mere  man ,  they  afterwards ,  in  consequence  of  the  power  he  exerted ,  considered 
a  magician,  when  he,  with  one  word,  ejected  devils  out  of  the  bodies  of  men, 
gave  sight  to  the  blind ,  cleansed  the  leprous ,  strengthened  the  nerves  of  those ,  that 
had  the  palsy,  and ,  lastly,  with  one  command ,  restored  the  dead  to  life ;  when  he , 
I  say,  made  the  very  elements  obey  him,  assuaged  the  storms,  walked  upon  the 
seas ,  demonstrating  himself  to  be  the  Word  of  God.  » 

(dn  another  passage  of  the  same  author,  we  meet  with  the  old  solution  of  magic, 
applied  to  the  miracles  of  Christ  by  the  adversaries  of  the  religion.  "Celsus," 
saith  Origen,  "well  knowing  what  great  works  may  be  alleged  to  have  been  done 
by  Jesus,  pretends  to  grant,  that  the  things,  related  of  him,  are  true;  such  as  healing 
diseases,  raising  the  dead,  feeding  multitudes  with  a  few  loaves,  of  which  large 
fragments  were  left."  And  then  Celsus  gives,  it  seems,  an  answer  to  these  proofs 
of  our  Lord's  mission,  which,  as  Origen  understood  it,  resolved  the  phenomena 
into  magic;  for  Origen  begins  his  reply  by  observing,  "You  see,  that  Celsus  in 
a  manner  allows,  that  there  is  such  a  thing  as  magic. » 

«This  magic,  these  daemons,  this  illusory  appearance,  this  comparison  with  the 
tricks  of  jugglers ,  by  which  many  of  that  age  accounted  so  easily  for  the  Christian 
miracles ,  »  etc. 

( 1 1 )  —  «  The  Breton ,  forc'd  to  lay  aside 
«  For  ivar's  unquaint  attire 
((  The  (jarb ,  that  form'd  his  fathers'  pride 

<(  From  simple  sire  to  sire , 
«  And  hear  the  loud  rappel  in  lieu 
«  Of  Hymen's  pipe,  the  brisk  biniou, 
«  Which  musters,  with  its  merry  strain , 
«  The  wedding-guests'  gavotte-zwjr  chain,  » 

« In  hereditary  breeches,  transmitted  petticoats,  and  old  ancestral  shoes,  they  dance 
their  national  gavotte  au  biniou,  (a  large  stride  and  a  little  skip,  to  the  sound  of 
the  bag-pipes,)  two  hundred  in  a  string,  and  not  a  smile  among  them  all.  » 

Letter  from  the  far  west  of  France. 


—  62  — 

(12)  —  «  And  thinking  of  the  dear  perfume , 
«  Exhaling  from  the  pine, 
«  And  thinking  of  the  yellow  broom , 

«  So  wanderingly  fine , 
<(  And  thinking  of  the  fern ,  that  grows 
«  As  wildly  as  the  other  blows, 
«  And  whatsoever  else  there  be 
<(  Of  primitive  and  fresh  and  free , 

«  The  sighing  Swiss  is  overcome, 
■ — «  The  Breton  is  subdu'd, — 
«  He  sickens  at  the  daily  drum, 
«  He  loathes  his  daily  food , 
«  Till ,  tears  his  only  meat  and  drink , 
«  The  poiv'rs  of  mind  and  body  si7ik , 
<(  And,  sobbing  in  his  barrack-bed, 
((  He  lifts  no  more  his  heavy  head.  » 

The  love  of  birthplace — the  recurrence  of  the  mind  to  absent  scenes— the  pining 
for  one's  native  country — the  yearning  after  home  in  short — is,  as  a  pathological 
fact,  too  notorious  to  dwell  upon.  *  The  feeling  is  an  overpowering  one.  The  Greeks 
had  a  word  for  it,  -J-  nostalgia  ;  if  not  a  word ,  the  Hebrews  had  at  least  the  thing: — 
H  By  the  waters  of  Babylon  ive  sat  down  and  wept,  when  ive  remembered  thee,  O  Sion. » 
Of  modern  people ,  the  Swiss  and  the  Bas-Bretons ,  it  appears ,  are  the  most  subject 
to ,  and  the  most  affected  by,  this  §  distressing  malady, — for  such ,  indeed ,  it  is. 
The  expatriated  negros,  however,  are  said  to  eat  dirt  to  kill  themselves.  The  Laplanders, 
loo,  and  the  Greenlanders,  and  the  Scotch,  are  acutely  attached  to  their  native  soil. 

A  decided ,  though  not  a  directly  fatal ,  case  of  nostalgia ,  or  mal-du-pays ,  or 

*  We  read  in  the  history  of  Venice  and  Hie  page  of  Byron ,  that  the  younger  of  the  two  Foscari , 
who  had  been  banished  hy  the  Slate  for  some  political  offence ,  persisted  in  returning  to  the  sea- 
built  city,  though  the  penalty  for  so  doing  was  the  dungeon  and  the  rack. 

-|-  Derived  from  nostos ,  return,  and  algos ,  grief,  ennui. 

§     o  Empathejia  atowcub.     Impassioned  depression. 

«  The  ardent  desire ,  which  is  distinguished  by  the  name  of  Longing ,  is  directed  towards  objects 
of  various  kinds  ,  that  are  absent,  and  equally  relate  to  places  and  persons.  It  is  a  painful  and 
exhausting  emotion,  compounded  of  hope,  love,  and  fear,  and  peculiarly  agitates  the  prcceordia , 
and  hence  the  beautiful  and  striking  apophthegm  of  the  wise  man  :  «  Hope  deferred  maketh  the 
heart  sick.  »  There  are  three  modifications  of  it,  viz.  home-sickness,  country-sickness,  and  love- 
sickness,  the  first  being  felt  by  children,  the  second  (the  heimwehr  of  the  Germans)  by  foreigners, 
who  have  a  strong  and  inextinguishable  love  for  their  countiy,  and  are  anxious  to  return  to  (he 
scenes  and  companions  of  former  times ,  and  the  third  by  the  youthful  pair,  who  »  etc.  etc.  etc. 

Dr  Good's  •  Study  of  Medecine ,  »  by  S.  Cooper. 


—  63  — 

home-sickness ,  occurred  at  Dinan,  a  few  years  ago,  in  the  person  of  a  Polish  lady 
uf  great  amiability  and  accomplishments,  Madame  Swartz.  With  but  small  inducement 
to  return  to  Bussia-rueing  Warsaw,  and  though  she  was  surrounded  here  by  her 
nearest  and  dearest  relatives  on  earth,  and  by  friends  and  acquaintance,  who  loved, 
esteemed,  and  honoured  her,  her  thoughts,  from  whatever  cause,  so  forcibly  reverted 
to  the  plains  of  Poland,  that  her  spirits  gave  way,  her  body  fell  sick,  her  mind 
became  enfeebled,  and  her  singular  energy  forsook  her  quite.  She  wept,  as  if  she 
had  the  jaundice,  and  her  appetite  was  gone.  Her  exemplary  husband,  who  was 
every  way  worthy  of  the  pure  devotion  she  had  shown  for  him ,  and  to  whom  her 
presence  was  a  blessing  and  a  prop,  not  merely  consented,  that  she  should,  but 
entreated,  that  she  would,  set  out  for  Warsaw,  and  all  was  accordingly  prepared 
for  her  departure,  when  conjugal  and  maternal  love  prevailed,  (what  a  scene  it 
must  have  been!  )  and  wrought  a  revulsion  of  feeling,  though  not  in  time  alas! 
to  restore  her  health ,  which ,  impaired  beyond  recovery,  turned  to  consumption , 
and  bore  her  to  the  grave,  shortly  afterwards,  at  the  early  age  of  thirty  seven. 
Her  excellent  partner  survived  her  but  two  or  three  years,  dying  at  Paris,  as  there 
is  but  too  much  reason  to  believe,  of  a  broken  heart.  Would  I  could  only  add, 
that,  as  a  comfort  to  either  shade,  their  ashes  sleep  together  in  the  Burial-ground 
of  Dinan,  where  she  and  their  lovely  child  are  lying  side  by  side.  Poor  Monsieur 
Swartz !  it  is  hard  to  conceive  a  sadder  thing  than  his  sense  of  loneliness  at  Paris , 
-or  a  more  touching  one  than  his  wife-unsolaced  death! 

( 13 )  —  «  The  leech  essays  to  cure  in  vain 
«  A  morbid  moral  ill, 
«  Whose  seeds  are  in  the  absent  plain, 
«  The  mountain  and  the  hill, 
— «  A  hopeless  harm,  a  dire  disease, 
ci  That  mocks  at  human  remedies, 
«  And  eats  the  very  heart  away, 
—  «  The  melancholy  mal-du-pays.  » 

Not  always.  In  one  of  his  reported  conversations ,  the  emperor  Napoleon  describes 
himself,  when  the  contagious  nostalgia  broke  out  among  his  Swiss  troops,  to  have 
arrested  its  progress  and  dissipated  its  symptoms  by  causing  their  favorite  Banz- 
de-vache  to  be  played  to  them  \  and  the  same  great  man  showed  himself  fully 
sensible  of  the  service,  rendered  him  by  an  army-surgeon, — the  thenceforth  well 
known  Dr  Majendie,— who  effected  a  similar  cure  upon  a  large  corps  of  Bas-Bretons 
by  talking  to ,  reasoning  with ,  and  consoling  the  poor  fellows  *  in  their  native  tongue. 

*  As  a  touring  quartelt  of  as  were  waiting ,  some  20  months  ago ,  for  our  horses  to  be  put  lo 
atChateaulin  to  continue  our  route  to  Brest,  I  was  accosted  on  the  quai  by  a  young  person,  who  hid 
recently  been  in  the  service  of  Monsieur  L— ,  the   late  Sous-prefet  of  Dinan.   To  my  question  why 


—  64  — 

(For  the  latter  anecdote,  as  well  as  for  the  medical  extract  above,  I  am  indebted 
to  my  very  intelligent  friend  and  brother-colonist,  Dr  Read,  of  Dinan.  To  Messieurs 
Victor  Aubry  and  Richard  Rowed  I  beg  to  express  my  obligations  for  the  sight  of 
a  long  and  highly  interesting  article  on  Nostalgia,  contained  in  the  ^Dictionnaire 
des  Sciences  Medical.es,  »  which  they,  who  can  get  access  to  the  book,  will  do  well 
to  read.  To  begin  to  quote  were  to  copy  it  entire,  so  interesting  and  all  of  a  piece 
it  is.  I ,  therefore ,  again  recommend  a  perusal  to  such ,  as  can  manage  to  see  the 
volume. ) 

( 14  )  —  «  As  soon  as  e'er  the  tardy  spring 
«  Is  breathing  on  the  ivild , 
(i  His  daughter,  dear  devoted  thing ! 

— «  His  uncomplaining  child, — 
«  With  voice  as  sweet  as  dulcimer's , 
«  Will  take  his  passive  hand  in  Iter's , 
h  And ,  smiling  as  she  gives  the  other 
«  As  fondly  to  her  mournful  mother , 

«  Will  lead  them  to  the  sunny  spot , 

«  Where  emulously  blows , 
«  To  charm  with  her  the  cheerless  cot , 

(c  Their  own  Crimean  rose  !  »  etc. 

The  reader  will  have  been  at  once  reminded  of  «  The  Exiles  of  Siberia , »  where 
it  is  the  father,  however,  and  not  the  daughter,  who  calls  attention  to  *  the  flowers 
of  spring.  The  story,  as  told  by  Madame  Cottin,  is  a  very  charming  one,  and  well 
deserves  its  high  reputation;  but  was  it  not  a  thousand  pities  to  poetise  the  simple 
truth?  In  the  way  of  love,  sufficient  was  the  filial  :  Smoloff  is  not  only  a  fiction  , 
but  an  impertinence  as  well.  This  very  thought,  perhaps,  crossed  the  authoress's 
mind,  when  she  wrote  as  follows  :  ctNon,  Mademoiselle,"  says  the  father  of  her 
lover  in  his  letter  to  Elisabeth ,  «  ce  n'est  point  avec  mon  fils ,  que  vous  devez 
partir;  je  ne  doute  point  de  son  honneur,  mais  le  votre  doit  etre  a  Fabri  de  tout 
soupcon.  En  allant  montrer  a  la  cour  de  Russie  des  vertus  trop  touchantes  pour 

she  had  left  the  latter  town ,  she  made  this  characteristic  answer  :  «  Ah  !  Monsieur !  que  voulez-voui? 
On  aime  teujours  son  propre  pays.  J'etais  si  tritte  a  Dinan  :  il  n'y  avait  personne  la.  qui 
parldt  breton.  o 

*  «  Au  midi  ,  Springer  avait  pratique  une  espece  de  serre ,  ou  il  cultivait,  avcc  tin  soin  parli- 
culier,  certaines  fleurs,  inconnues  a  ce  climat;  cl  quand  venait  le  moment  de  leur  fleuraison ,  il  les 
pressait  contro  jes  levres  ,  il  les  montrait  a  sa  femme,  el  en  ornail  le  front  de  sa  fille  en  lui  disant : 
•  Elisabeth ,  pare-toi  des  fleurs  de  la  patrie ,  elles  te  ressemblent  :  eomme  toi ,  elles  s'cmbellissent 
dans  l'eiil.  Ah !  puisses-tu  n'y  pas  mourir  comme  elles  1  » 


—  65  — 

n'etre  pas  eouronnees,  il  ne  faut  pas  risquer  de  faire  dire  que  vous  avez  ete  conduite 
par  votre  amant,  et  fletrir  ainsi  le  plus  beau  trait  de  piete  filiale,  dont  le  monde 
puisse  s'honorer.  Dans  votre  situation ,  il  n'y  a  de  protecteurs  dignes  de  votre  inno- 
cence que  Dieu  et  votre  pere  :  votre  pere  ne  peut  vous  suivre ,  Dieu  ne  vous  aban- 
donnera  pas.  La  religion  vous  pretera  son  flambeau  et  son  appui  :  abandonnez-vous 
a  elle.  » 

I ,  for  one ,  certainly  prefer  to  the  drawing-room  version  of  the  tale  «  La  Jeune 
Siberienne , »  by  Xavier  de  Maistre ,  whose  veracious  little  work  commences  thus  : 

«  Le  courage  d'une  jeune  fille ,  qui ,  vers  la  fin  du  regne  de  Paul  Ier,  partit  a  pied 
de  la  Siberie,  pour  venir  a  Saint-Petersbourg  demander  la  grace  de  son  pere,  fit 
assez  de  bruit  dans  le  temps  pour  engager  un  auteur  celebre  a  faire  une  heroine 
de  roman  de  cette  interessante  voyageuse.  Mais  les  personnes ,  qui  l'ont  connue , 
paraissent  regretter,  qu'on  ait  prete  des  aventures  d'amour  et  des  idees  romanesques 
a  une  jeune  et  noble  vierge ,  qui  n'eut  jamais  d'autre  passion  que  l'amour  filial  1c 
plus  pur,  et  qui,  sans  appui,  sans  conseil,  trouva  dans  son  cceur  la  pensee  de 
Taction  la  plus  genereuse  et  la  force  de  l'executer.  Si  le  recit  de  ses  aventures  n"offre 
point  cet  interet  de  surprise,  que  peut  inspirer  un  romancier  pour  des  personnes 
imaginaires,  on  ne  lira  peut-etre  pas  sans  quelque  plaisir  la  simple  histoire  de  sa 
vie,  assez  interessante  par  elle-meme,  sans  autre  ornement  que  la  verite.  Prascovie 
Lupouloff  elait  son  nom.  » 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying,  that  poor  Praskowja  Lupolowa  died  in  the  convent  of 
Novogorod,  in  1810,  six  years  after  her  generous  devotion.  She  appears  never  to 
have  recovered  from  the  hardships  she  endured  in  her  terrible  journey  of  2400  miles. 
Like  Grace  Darling,  she  was  carried  off  by  consumption. 


PRINTED    BY   J.-B.    I1UART. 


SKETCH  OF  LEW'S  WAREHOUSE  ft  1838, 


-*t>> — 


From  TME  FIRE  AND  THE  FAGGOTS,  a  tiacam. 


BY 


STEPHEN   PRENTIS,    A.  M. 


Author  of 


TINTERN  ;   STONEHENGE  ;   THE   WRECK   OF  THE   ROSCOMMON  ;    THE   ROCKS   OF  PENMARC'H  ;   SPECIMENS   OF 
TRANSLATION   FROM  THE   FRENCn;    LE   GRAND-BEY   OR  THE   TOMB   OF   CHATEAUBRIAND;   etc.  ,   etc. 


J.-U.    HUART. 

EIIXAS. 
1051. 


SKETCH  OF  LEVY'S  WAREHOUSE  IN  1858. 

^roiii  THE  FI1IE  MP  THE  FA&CiOTS ,  a  dream. 

— *®° — 

BY   STEPHEN   PRENTIS,    A.   M. 

Author  of 

TINDERN  ;  STONEnENGE  ;  THE  WRECK  OF  THE  ROSCOMMON  ;  THE  ROCKS  OF  PENMARC'H  ;  SPECIMENS  OF 
TRANSLATION  FROM  THE  FRENCH ;   LE  GRAND-BEY  OR  THE  TOMB  OF  CHATEAUBRIAND ;  etc.  ,  etc. 

oCJ° 


John  Levy ,  the  founder  and  possessor  of  perhaps  the  most  singular  business 
and  the  most  singular  store  in  the  kingdom,  commenced  his  career  at  Chatham, 
the  natural  importance  of  which ,  whether  as  a  maritime  or  military  town ,  was 
magnified ,  of  course ,  by  our  stirring  war  with  Buonaparte.  During  that 
eventful  period  in  particular,  the  local  opportunities  of  making  money  were 
manifold  and  great,  and  the  sensible  Levy,  already  on  the  «.lide,  that  leads 
to  fortune,  took,  »  with  his  native  tact ,  «  the  current  when  it  serv'd.  »  The 
success  of  his  speculations  and  the  corresponding  increase  of  his  trade ,  as  a 
general  dealer,  ultimately  led  to  the  erection  of  the  present  spacious  building 
on  St  Margaret's  bank ,  the  which ,  in  the  large  district ,  'so  largely  beholden 
to  its  various  articles  of  utility,  speedily  became,  under  the  title  of  «  Levy's 
Warehouse ,  »  really  and  truly  a  household  word.     Of  the  business  itself  he 


—  2  — 

said  lo  the  penner  of  these  lines,  (as  doubtlessly  to  divers  other  parties,)  that 
he  knew  of  nothing  of  the  sort ,  which  could  fairly  be  put  in  competition  with 
it,  and  that,  besides  himself,  there  was  only  one  individual  capable  of  conducting 
it ,  viz.  his  son  and  partner,  who ,  at  this  writing ,  discharges  the  honorable 
duties  of  a  City  Magistrate  at  Rochester. 

His  purchase ,  at  a  Government  Auction ,  of  a  condemned  man-of-war,  with 
his  characteristic  calculation  down  to  the  very  nails ,  and  his  hackney-coaching 
it,  in  1825,  to  a  great  London  Banking-House ,  with  his  money-bags  in  hand, 
in  generous  aid  of  the  endangered  Firm  ,  are,  with  other  traits  of  his,  as  much 
the  matter  of  local  history  as  his  personal  mien  and  gait  of  local  recollection. 
To  each  of  these  there  is  allusion  in  some  etchy  lines  below. 

But,  to  conclude  where  all  of  us  must  end,  John  Levy,  arrived  at  an  advanced 
age,  the  owner  of  a  hundred  houses  and  of  a  stock-in-trade  amounting  to  nobody 
could  tell  what ,  etc. ,  etc. ,  paid  the  common  debt  of  Nature  in  or  about  the 
year  1840,  leaving' alike  to  his  family  and  his  fellow-citizens  a  good  example 
and  a  good  name, — a  useful  lesson  of  thriving  perseverance,  and  the  valuable 
memory  of  a  very  clever  and  a  very  honest  man. 


Having  yesterday  ventur'd  on  more  than  enough 

Macaroni  at  dinner,  —  « that  perilous  stuff,  » 

Which ,  as  heavy  as  guilt  on  the  soul  of  Macbeth , 

When  he'd  put  with  a  dagger  old  Duncan  to  death , 

Weighs  at  once  on  the  stomach ,  the  brain ,  and  the  eyes 

Save  of  such ,  as  beneath  Neapolitan  skies , 

Gulp  it  down  by  the  yard,  —  the  inur'd  lazzaroni , 

Who  are  us'd  to  eat  naught,  (barring  fish,)  that  is  bony, 

-Having  yesterday  made  of  myself,  as  I  say, 

Such  a  pig  at  the  principal  meal  of  the  day , 

When  the  dinner  was  done  and  the  cloth  was  remov'd , 

And  a  smack  of  the  lips  of  the  port  had  approv'd , 

With  a  lethargy  seiz'd,  I  am  bound  to  declare, 

That ,  in  spite  of  my  host  and  the  company  there , 

I ,  as  fast  as  a  top ,  fell  asleep  in  my  chair ! 


—  3  — 

Be  the  theory  false  or  the  theory  true , 
That  the  whole  of  a  life  in  a  minute  or  two 
May  be  run  in  a  vision  as  rapidly  over 
As  the  submarine  line  between  Calais  and  Dover , 
—  Tout  cela  m'est  egal; —  all  I  wish  to  aver  is, 
That  my  fancy  was  off  in  the  biggest  of  hurries , 
When ,  in  spite  of  my  host  and  the  company  there , 
Overcome ,  as  I  said ,  by  that  succulent  fare , 
Which  was  superinduc'd  on  a  civet  of  hare , 
I ,  as  fast  as  a  top ,  fell  asleep  in  my  chair ! 


No!  there's  nothing  to  me  so  irrelevant  seems 
To  the  nature  of  sense  as  the  nature  of  dreams , 
Of  the  which ,  as  a  proof  how  philosophers  fail , 
Neither  Brewster  nor  Brougham  can  make  head  or  tail, 
So  the  reader ,  whoever  has  chanc'd  to  go  thro'  em , 
Will  not  expect  me  to  beat  Brewster  and  Brougham , 
But  allow  me  de  novo  to  simply  declare , 
That ,  in  spite  of  my  host  and  the  company  there , 
Overcome  ,  as  I  said  ,  by  that  succulent  fare  , 
Which  was  superinduc'd  on  a  civet  of  hare , 
I ,  as  fast  as  a  top ,  fell  asleep  in  my  chair ! 


What  a  higgledy-piggledy  chaos  of  things 
To  the  somnolent  sinner  Dyspepsia  brings, 
So  bizarre  and  so  heterogeneous  quite, 
That ,  if  ever  he's  witness'd  that  singular  sight , 
( What  from  hear-say  alone  he  could  never  conceive )  he 
Might  imagine  himself  in  the  warehouse  of  Levy, 
With  its  ocean  of  objects,  too  full  of  confusion 
For  a  catalogue  e'er  to  achieve  a  conclusion ! 


Out  o'  doors ,  there  is  iron  in  pieces  and  hoops , 

And  there's  hutches  and  hatches  and  kennels  and  coops , 

And  there's  flint,  and  there's  cobhle  for  paving,  and  flag, 

And  the  stone  of  the  county,  indigenous  rag, 

And  a  cart  to  dispose  of,  a  eow  and  a  waggon, 

And  a  trough  and  a  tank,  and  St  George  and  the  Dragon, 

And  a  sign  of  The  Swan ,  with  a  neck  that  's  quite  risible , 

And  a  furlong  of  fence,  that  ye  see,  tho'  invisible, 

And  a  lot  of  new  weathercocks ,  rang'd  in  a  row , 

That  belong'd  to  a  tinman  a  short  time  ago , 

And  a  parcel  of  hides  from  a  tanner  at  Mailing , 

And  the  sorry  effects  of  a  smithy  at  Hailing, 

And,  the  very  bad  debt  of  a  farmer  near  Chatham, 

Seven  pothery  sheep  and  some  turnips  to  fat  'em ! 

And  there's  coal  and  there's  coke  and  there's  lime  high  and  dry, 

Which  a  curious  piebald  present  to  the  eye, 

And  a  heap  of  odd  wood  and  of  gorse  and  of  heather, 

(For  a  furnace  perhaps)  that  are  jumbled  together, 
And  there's  faggots  enough  for  a  victualling  baker , 
And  there's  bricks ,  that ,  laid  single ,  would  cover  an  acre , 
And  the  elegant  hearse  of  a  late  undertaker, 
That  was  put  up  in  Strood  and  knock'd  down  by  a  quaker, 
And  a  boat  and  a  buoy  and  a  box  for  the  sentry , 
And  a  famous  French-horn  for  the  fox-hunting  gentry, 
And ,  the  refuse  of  many  and  many  a  hovel , 
A  collection  of  rags ,  that's  intended  for  Tovil , 
And  a  cider-press ,  bottle-rack ,  grin'stone  and  railing , 
A  verandah,  a  hut  upon  wheels,  and  a  paling, 
And  the  font  of  a  church  and  a  window  call'd  oriel , 
And  a  Cupid ,  blown  off  by  a  blast  that  was  boreal , 

[  And  a  Turk  of  a  cock ,  with  his  harem  of  course , 

<  And  a  raven,  as  usual,  exceedingly  hoarse, 

[  And  a  guinea-pig,  under  a  red  rocking-horse, 
And  a  barrow  of  bones,  and  a  wheelbarrow  fill'd 


—  5  — 

Full  o'  squirts,  and  loose  timber  sufficient  to  build 
All  the  houses  of  them,  that  go  out  to  new  Zealand, 
( How  rejoic'd  the  poor  passengers  must  be  to  see  land ! ) 
And  a  cucumber-frame  and  a  sensible  roller, 
And  a  garden-pump,  bought  for  the  Customs'  Comptroller, 
And  the  pots  and  the  pans  and  the  floral  set-out 
Of  a  maiden  deceas'd ,  and  departed  no  doubt 
For  the  Eden  above,  where,  by  envy  unharri'd, 
As  an  angel ,  of  course  she  will — never  get  marri'd ! 
And  a  ( pick'd  up  at  sea )  chest  of  nautical  habits , 
And  a  barrel,  that  holds— a  fine  litter  of  rabbits, 
And  a  plough  and  a  faro -like  lantern  of  horn, 
And  a  novel  invention  to  winnow  the  corn, 
And  a  go-cart ,  a  pulpit ,  tin ,  tallow ,  and  pitch  , 
And  a  crow-bar  and  jemmy,  dug  up  in  a  ditch, 
And  a  threshing-machine  and  a  couple  of  harrows , 
And  a  round-about  cage  to  inveigle  the  sparrows , 
(  And  a  helm  and  a  hawser,  and  cordage  and  thongs, 
\  And  an  eel-trap  and  rigging ,  a  pickax  and  prongs , 
[  And  a  bundle  of  Dibdin's  appropriate  songs 
For  our  tars ,  with  a  parrot  upon  it ,  as  tho' 
She  was  looking  for  «  Poll  and  my  partner  Joe ,  » — 
And  a  chain  and  an  anchor  and  many  a  spar, 
That  was  «  wounded  severely  »  at  hot  Trafalgar , 
And  a  cauldron  and  coppers ,  and  gutters  of  lead , 
And  the  mast  of  a  ship  and  a  huge  figure-head 
Of  the  Dutchman  de  Winter,  with  such  a  cock'd-hat  on , 
As  would  keep  from  the  snow  whosoever  had  that  on ! 


And  there's  Levy  himself,  with  his  brass-button'd  blue  coat, 
Which  but  yesterday  week ,  as  he  says ,  was  a  new  coat , 
And  his  beaver,  already  discolour'd  and  brown, 
That's  so  wide  in  the  brim  and  so  low  in  the  crown , 


—  6  — 

And  his  large-lidded  eye ,  that's  so  deep  in  the  socket , 

And  his  either  hand  hid  in  his  either  coat-pocket , 

And  his  leisurely  answer  and  lazy  look  round , 

Ere  he  saunters  to  where  what  you  want's  to  be  found 

In  a  world  of  odd  items,  so  dusty  and  fluey, 

Or  refers  you  to  one  of  his  people  or  «  Lewie.  » 

— Such  is  Levy ,  all  matters  that  cooly  doth  take  so , 
And  that  seems  half-asleep ,  tho'  no  man  is  awake  so , 
Be  it  here  in  the  midst  of  his  busy  bazaar , 
Or  in  Town  at  the  sale  of  an  old  man-o'-war, 
When  the  Cockers  are  working  the  value  together , 
While  a  lounger  and  he  are  discussing  the  weather. 
Of  the  whereabout  sure  by  a  mode  of  his  own , 
His  irrelevant  chat  is  «  The  Speech  from  the  Throne ,  » 

[  As  he  nods  for  the  «  Mars  »  with  as  little  ado 

I  As  he  yesterday  did  for  another  «  Belle-Vue ,  » 

'  And  will  carry  the  day  and  his  ten-per-cent  too ! 

-*-Such  is  Levy,  whose  wit  is  a  wealth-giving  wand , 
And  whose  aid  is  his  son,  and  whose  word  is  his  bond, 

— Such  is  Levy,  that  acted  so  thoroughly  handsome , 
In  the  time  of  the  panic ,  by  run-upon  Ransom , 
When  the  counter  itself  was  entranc'd  to  behold 
Such  a  bright  apparition  of  bank-saving  gold ! 

— Such  is  Levy,  I  say ,  with  his  wonderful  «  nous ,  » 
Going  over  a  hulk  or  inspecting  a  house , 
And  as  quietly  bidding  for  both  in  their  turn 
As  a  Justice  of  Peace  for  a  copy  of  Burn ! 

Under  cover  again ,  in  that  trio  of  rooms , 
— In  those  long-bodi'd  stores ,  —  is  a  legion  o'  brooms , 
Mops ,  matting ,  and  brushes ,  and  brush-bottom'd  scrapers , 
Bells ,  knockers ,  and  ropes ,  and  the  last-fashion'd  papers  , 
Locks ,  latches ,  and  holdfasts ,  and  hammers  and  nails  , 


—  7  — 
Pot-bangers  and  hooks  and  suspenders  and  scales , 
Planes ,  chisels ,  aud  balls  out  o'  number  o'  string , 
And  a  crane  and  a  pulley ,  a  target  and  swing , 
Rugs,  carpets,  and  floor-cloth,  and  curtains  of  silk 
And  of  muslin ,  not  quite  the  complexion  of  milk , 
Blinds,  steddles,  and  cupboards,  and  tables  and  stools, 
Chairs ,  benches ,  and  forms  for  tea-gardens  and  schools  , 
Fire-irons  and  fenders  and  plenty  of  bedding 
To  furnish  the  inns  between  London  and  Reading, 

(  And  a  plenty  o'  glass  to  astonish  a  butler, 

\  And  a  plenty  o'  steel  to  astonish  a  cutler, 

V  And  of  things  in  his  line  to  astonish  a  suttler, 
Or  a  china-man ,  cabinet-maker  or  brazier, 
Or  a  smith  or  a  wright  or  a  plumber-and-glazier, 
Or  a  currier,  sadler,  or  dealer  in  slates , 
Or  a  seller  of  bottles  or  vendor  of  weights , 
Washing-tubs  and  the  lines  your  wet  linen  to  dangle , 
With  the  pegs ,  and  a  hundred  of  soap  and  a  mangle , 
And  utensils  for  family-brewing  complete , 
And  that  sine-qud-non  for  your  beer,  Fahrenheit, 
(Since  the  difficult  point  after  all  is  the  setting , 
Why,  be  cautious  alike  of  the  chilling  and  fretting , 

— Over-cool ,  it  wo'nt  work ,  over-warm ,  you  will  fox  it ) — 
And  a  box  with  a  compass  for  such  as  can  box  it , 
And  a  mace  and  a  thing  to  catch  crabs  and  a  float , 
And  a  coat  for  your  horse  and  a  tree  for  your  coat , 
And  a  jack  for  your  boots  and  a  horse  for  your  towel , 
And  a  plumb  and  a  square  and  a  hod  and  a  trowel , 
And  a  truck  and  a  sink  and  a  manger  and  rack, 
And  a  barrel  of  tar  and  a  barrel  of  black , 

i  And  the  green  upper-half  of  a  pleasure-ground  god , 

\  And  a  ponderous  beater  to  settle  the  sod , 

'  And  a  seine  to  take  salmon  and  tunny  and  cod , 
And  a  curious  chair,  made  o'  branches  of  oak , 


•—  8  — 
And  a  fungus ,  that  came  from  abroad ,  and  a  yoke , 
And  a  weighing-machine  and  a  board  to  play  billiards, 
And  a  set  to  play  bowls  and  convenient  steel-yards, 
And  a  hip-bath  and  slipper- ,  a  dozen  of  bladders , 
And  a  library-steps  and  two  twenty-foot  ladders , 
And  a  spud  and  a  spade ,  a  tarpaulin  and  sail , 
And  a  scythe  and  a  rake  and  a  sickle  and  flail , 
And  a  bit  for  your  colt  and  a  chain  for  your  monkey, 
And  a  poke  for  your  pig  and  a  clog  for  your  donkey, 
And  a  thing  to  give  musical  misses  an  ear, 
(«  Metronome  »  is  the  name )  and  a  harpsicord  near, 
And  a  cape,  that  is  hung  on  the  horns  of  a  deer, 
And  a  sand-colour'd  wig,  that  was  worn  by  King  Lear 
At  the  time  (but  I  cannot  remember  the  year) 
Mr  Booth  acted  Kean  so  successfully  here ! 
And  a  magical  strop  of  the  pattern-farm  Mechi , 
And  a  pouch  for  some  modern  Tom  Pipes  to  put  «  baccy , » 

!And  a  hone  and  a  pair  of  mysterious  fetters , 
And  a  board  with  beware  of  the  bull  in  large  letters , 
And  another  with  pray  ,  sir  ,  remember  the  debtors  , 
As ,  in  sooth ,  the  poor  creditors  commonly  do , 
When  they  look  with  a  sigh  at  each  pale  i  o  u ! 
A  settee  in  the  rough ,  and  a  sofa  unfurnish'd , 
A  sedan  out  of  date  and  a  kettle  unburnish'd, 
A  cheval-glass,  a  screen,  and  all  manner  of  candlesticks, 
And  a  couple  of  cudgels  for  him ,  that  can  handle  sticks , 
And  a  prime  Bramah  lock  and  the  lathe  of  a  turner, 
And  some  egg-cups  in  wood  and  a  warranted  burner, 
And  a  shoemaker's  last  and  a  loom  and  a  shuttle, 
And  a  pallet  and  knife ,  and  a  scoop  and  a  scuttle , 
And  a  pestle  and  mortar  and  roller  for  paste, 
(Mem.  the  lightest  is  made  with  tight  hands  and  in  haste,) 
And  a  sack  and  a  sieve  and  a  stove  and  a  colander, 
And  a  garment,  that  clearly  belong'd  to  a  Hollander, 


—  9  — 

And  a  Venus  in  bronze  and  a  wide-winged  Hope, 

And  a  bowl  to  make  toddy  and  bishop  and  pope, 

And  a  midshipman's  dirk ,  and  a  bat  to  play  cricket., 

With  the  bails  and  a  ball  too,  to  drive  at  the  wicket, 

And  a  sugar-box ,  full  of  Mahomedan  slippers , 

And  a  dais,  that  cushions  a  cat  and  the  nippers, 

And  the  feathery  crown  of  the  sooty  king  Kibo , 

And  the  jaw  of  a  shark  and  the  head  of  Ohibo , 

And  a  cap  and  a  gown  of  the  classical  cloisters ., 

And  a  long  bowie-knife  and  another  for  oysters, 

And  a  roquelaire  cloak  and  a  warm  Jersey  jacket , 

And  a  chess-board ,  a  castle ,  two  pawns ,  and  a  racket , 

And  a  mimic  turn-out  of  the  first  of  September, 

And  a  Lillipnt  show  of  the  ninth  of  November, 

Where  the  coaches ,  of  course ,  of  the  Sheriff  and  the  Mayor, 

With  their  gilt ,  are  the  two  «  smartest  booths  in  the  fair,  » 

And  a  Dimmock  a-cock-horse ,  and  arm'd  cap-a-pie, 

And  a  dear  little  service  for  coffee  and  tea, 

And  a  thunderbolt  found  in  the  village  of  Cuxton, 

And  some  beautiful  spars  from  the  beautiful  Buxton, 

And  a  plated  tureen  and  a  suitable  ladle , 

And  a  curry-comb,  cornbin,  and  sponge  for  the  stable, 

And  a  coral ,  with  bells ,  for  your  child  in  the  cradle , 

And  a  crib ,  with  a  brave  wicker-guard  for  his  noddle, 

When  the  poor  little  devil  commences  to  toddle, 

And  a  Russian  pelisse  and  an  African  quiver, 

Which  was  borne  by  the  Niger  or  some  other  river, 

And  a  spirit-stand  (gilt)  and  a  curious  basket, 

And  an  organ  to  grind  with  the  hand,  and  a  casket, 

And  the  fleece  of  a  ewe ,  that  was  thorough-bred  Leicester, 

And  a  water-proof  cap ,  that  is  call'd  a  sou'wester, 

And  a  muff  and  a  shawl  and  a  Mexican  spear, 

And  the  helm  of  a  fire-man  or  French  cuirassier, 

And  a  model  in  brass  of  a  pack  of  artillery, 


—  10  — 
And  a  funny  wood-cut  of  a  man  in  the  pillory, 

;Oh!  that  witty  Sam  Foote,  with  his  « thro'  the  wood,  laddie!*) 
And  the  staff  of  a  *  «  crusher, »  an  urn  and  a  caddy , 
And  a  little  bone  fleet ,  with  its  white  vis-a-vis- , 
All  in  battle  array  on  a  tough  little  sea, 
And  a  mannikin  rider  his  little  blue  nag  on , 
And  a  doll  for  your  daughter  with  never  a  rag  on , 
And  a  spit,  and  a  perfect  gradation  o'  skewers, 
And  a  domino-box ,  and  a  case  for  liqueurs , 
And  a  drum  and  a  pair  of  ridiculous  bellows , 
And  a  stand  without  snuffers ,  and  gloves  without  fellows , 
And  a  specimen  ( stuff 'd)  of  the  savage  Deccan-kite, 
And  an  owl  with  glass  eyes  and  a  capital  man-kite, 
And  a  dormouse  awake ,  and  a  saddle  and  bridle , 
And  a  cage  with  a  squirrel ,  that  never  is  idle , 
And  a  self-winding  jack  and  a  safe  to  keep  meat  in , 
And  a  d — d  pair  of  stocks ,  such  as  Roffy  my  feet  in 
Compell'd  me  to  put ,  when  he  taught  me  to  dance , 
Forty  years  at  the  least ,  before ,  settled  in  France , 
I  had  scribbled  a  rhyme  on  the  banks  of  the  Ranee, 
And  a  toast-rack ,  a  vinegar-cruet  and  castors , 
Buonaparte  in  «  biscuit ,  »  and  two  alabasters  , 

-Of  Apollo  the  one ,  and  the  other  of  Pallas  , — 
Which  at  Dover  were  seiz'd ,  because  smuggled  from  Calais , 
And  a  sackbut,  that  nobody  knows  how  to  play, 
And  a  bottle ,  mark'd  rum  ,  and  a  Sallust  astray, 

'  Which  was  own'd  (from  the  scrawl)  by  a  pupil  of  Knox's, 

I  An  alarum ,  a  lute ,  and  three  musical  boxes , 

,  And  a  platter,  recalling  a  trait  of  the  fox's, 
When  he  fete-ei  the  stork ,  on  which  jolly  occasion , 
Avec  beaucoup  de  jugement  et  beaucoup  de  raison, 
The  repast  ( not  a  trite  one  of  frogs  or  their  fish ) 
Was  a  bouillon  of  game  —  in  a  flat-bottom 'd  dish  .'— 
And  a  gay  robe-de-chambre  and  a  sad-colour'd  tabinet, 

The  slang  term  for  a  policeman. 


—  11  — 

And  a  grand-mother's  hood,  and  a  China-made  cabinet. 

With  its  figures ,  that  stand ,  whether  dumpy  or  tall , 

Like  the  Brahmin's  big  tortoise ,  on  nothing  at  all ! — 

And  a  flute  and  a  fife ,  and  a  choice  of  old  dials , 

And  a  board  to  play  drafts  and  a  fabric  of  phials , 

And  a  net  to  catch  shrimps  and  the  dress  of  a  satrap , 

And  a  Persian  brocade  and  a  new-fashion'd  rat-trap, 

And  a  lamp  and  a  vase  and  a  gong  and  a  puzzle, 

And  a  whip  and  a  wrench  and  a  leash  and  a  muzzle, 

And  a  foil  and  a  glove  and  a  jerkin  and  mask , 

And  a  whistle ,  a  gun ,  and  a  portable  flask , 

And  a  bagatelle-board  with  the  cue,  and  a  cluster 

Of  anomolous  shells  on  a  tray,  and  a  lustre , 

And  an  instrument-case,  and  a  box  with  the  dice , 

And  a  windlass,  a  rattle,  a  winch  and  a  vice, 

And  a  magnet ,  a  globe ,  and  a  glass  ye  call  pier, 

And ,  suspended ,  a  ship  and  a  large  chandelier, 

And  a  drugget ,  as  good  as  ye  get  at  the  draper's , 

And  a  verdigris  coil  of  diminutive  tapers, 

And  a  card-rack  and  calandar,  pickles  and  capers, 

And  the  sauce  of  Tomata  to  eat  with  your  mullet, 

And  a  pistol  to  settle  your  love  with  a  bullet , 

And  a  throne  of  a  sort  of  a  palanquin  fashion , 

Such  as  figures  away  in  a  papal  procession , 

And  a  shell  from  the  shore  of  the  far  Coromandel , 

And  the  cast  of  an  amphora,  minus  a  handle, 

And  the  horn  of  a  whale  (pray  acquit  me  of  scandal,) 

Which  is  almost  as  long  as  a  Catholic  candle!— 

And  a  dressing-case,  pencils  and  penknives  and  razors, 

And  a  lens  to  delight  astronomical  gazers , 

And  «  the  paddy  ,  »  ( a  model , )  impell'd  by  the  screw , 

And  a  clay-more  and  kilt  and  a  bonnet  o'  blue, 

And  an  iron  for  lace  and  an  iron  for  rucks, 

And  a  piece  to  shoot  deer  and  a  piece  to  shoot  ducks, 


—  12  — 

And  an  hour-glass,  as  thin  in  the  waist  as  a  wasp, 

And  a  chain  for  your  pug ,  with  a  collar  and  clasp , 

And  a  sword  with  a  sheath  and  a  knife  with  a  hasp, 

And  decanters  and  stands,  cellarets  and  a  cooler, 

And  a  clock  for  your  hall  and  a  genuine  Beulah , 

And  a  time-piece  from  Paris ,  excessively  beau , 

With  a  man  on  a  horse  like  Bucephalus,  tho' 

Neither  one  of  the  three  ever  offers  to  go! — 

And  a  waggoner's  hat  and  a  coarse  gaberdine, 

And  a  corkscrew  and  funnel  for  delicate  wine, 

And  for  you,  Sir,  with  whom  it's  a  serious  question 

Both  to  keep  up  your  strength  and  to  hasten  digestion, 

There's  a  conical  flannel  to  filter  your  jelly  with , 

And  a  hammer  on  purpose  to  pummel  your  belly  with ! 

And  a  cannon ,  complete  to  its  miniature  trunnions , 

And  a  bunch  overhead  of  fine  Portugal  onions, 

And  a  grim  tomahawk  and  a  Spanish  guitar, 

And  an  Indian  bow  and  a  baby  bazaar, 

And  an  image  in  wax  of  the  bonnie  Queen  Bess, 

As  she  went  to  St.  Paul's,  and  a  masquerade  dress, 

And  the  hide  of  a  wolf  and  the  slough  of  a  boa , 

And  a  skinny  canoe  and  the  mansion  of  Noah, 

With  its  beasts  of  the  field  and  its  fowls  of  the  air, 

Like  himself  and  his  wives  and  the  families  fair 

Of  his  sons  ,  Shem  and  Japhet  and  Ham ,  here  and  there , 

And  a  scatter  of  cards ,  «  all  at  sixes  and  sevens,  » 

And  a  plan  of  Lord  Orrery's  «  Plan  of  the  Heavens ,  » 

Which  is  merely  in  want  of  the  Sun  and  the  Moon , 

And  a  quadrant  for  altitude-takers  at  noon , 

And  an  Esquimaux  suit  and  a  sealer's  harpoon, 

And  a  stuff  d  cockatoo  and  a  German  bazoon, 

German  pipe  and  a  (regular  English)  spitoon, 

And  a  statue  of  Pan  and  a  living  racoon , 

That  is  ty'd  to  a  nymph  on  a  parcel  of  shavings, 


—  13  — 

And  a  magpie ,  decidedly  fond  of  engravings , 
That  keeps  hopping  about ,  and  admires  at  his  ease 

«  The  Miraculous  Draught  »  and  <c  The  Bear  and  the  Bees ,  » 
And  «  A  Wreck  »  and  «  The  Seven  wise  Virgins  »  a-jam 
With  «  Tom  Crib  »  and  «  The  Seige  of  Seringapatam ,  » 
And  the  brave  «  Chesapeake  »  and  the  «  Shannon ,  »  that  fought  her, 
And  «  The  finding  of  Moses  »  and  «  Fish  out  of  water,  » 
And  the  lucky  <c  Tom  Thumb ,  »  ( may  he  never  grow  larger ! ) 
And  «  The  Duke*  and  «  The  head  of  St.  John  on  a  charger .'» 
And  a  likeness  of  Mynn ,  and  of  Wenman  and  Pilch , 
And  a  likeness  of  Peachum  and  Lockit  and  Filch, 
And  a  likeness  of  Liston  and  Philip-le-Bel , 
And  «  A  Scene  in  the  Desart »  and  «  Knaseborough  Well ,  » 
And  the  glorious  jump  of  the  patriot  «  Tell,  » 
And  that  deep  little  «  Thiers ,  »  who  of  course  is  to  sell ! 
And  «  St.  Simon  »  aside  of  that  rogue  «  Major  Semple ,  » 

«  Harry  Holt  »  and  «  The  beautiful  gate  of  the  Temple , » 
And  «  The  death  of  Lord  Chatham  »  and  «  Boors  »  hob-a-nob  , 
And  «  The  Fall  of  the  Angels  »  and  «  White-headed  Bob,  » 

«  Galatea  and  Acts  »  and  huge  «  Polyphemus ,  » 
And  «  The  murder  of  Beckett »  and  wall-hopping  «  Remus ,  » 
And  «  Jem  Belcher  »  and  «  Cowper,\)Jack  Randall  »  and  «  Shelly,  » 

«  Catalani  »  and  «  Pasta  »  and  sweet  «  Farinelli ,  » 
And  «  Eclipse  »  and  «  Godolphin  »  and  «  Machievelli ,  » 

«  Ariosto  »  and  «  Hector  »  and  «  Alderman  Kelly,  » 
And  «  Sir  W.  C,  »  that  lov'd  alderman's  jelly, 
And  whose  guest  was  his  king,  and  whose  God  was  his  belly! 

«  Clara  Fisher,  as  Shy  lock ,  »  and  «  Kean ,  as  Othello ,  » 
And  a  «  Fete-day  at  Rome ,  »  with  its  sure  Punchinello , 

«  The  Regatta  at  Cowes  »  and  «  The  Gull  »  and  «  The  Dasher,  » 
And  «  A  Gale  »  and  «  The  Dying  Request »  and  «  The  Slasher,  » 
And  American  Reed ,  with  his  ogle  upon  her, 
Who's  a-jumping  «  Jem  Crow  »  to  a  smirking  a  Madonna,  » 
Tho'  «  St.  Paul  »  with  his  staff  appears  ready  to  beat  her, 


—  14  — 

While  «  Mendoza  »  's  a^squaring  away  at  «  St.  Peter !  » — 

And  «  The  Race ,  »  where  the  lover,  no  longer  a  martyr, 

Is  as  happy  as  Sam  if  he— catches  a  Tartar! 

And  «  The  Anchor  a-trip , ii 77ie  Return  of  the  Smack ,  » 

And  «  A  Bedouin  Arab  »  and  «  Gentleman  Jack ,  » 

And  «  Dick  Turpin ,  »  that  gallopp'd  from  London  to  York , 

And  contriv'd  by  the  feat  his  accusers  to  balk , 

Tho',  in  limbo  at  last  and  the  sad  prison  garb,  he 

For  his  either  leg  ended  by  winning  the  darby, 

Which  he  wore ,  till .  as  gallows  as  gallows  could  be , 

He  was  mounted  for  Tyburn  or  some  other  tree , 

With  a  crowd  in  the  rear  of  promiscuous  folks, 

Like  that  jockey  King  Charles ,  when  he  ran  for  the  oaks. 


-An  anomalous  lot!  and  the  books  are  as  bad 
To  a  regular  mind ,  by  disorder  made  mad ; 
But ,  if  aught  in  the  jumble  at  variance  be 
With  the  proper,  why ,  Madam ,  reflect  and  agree , 
That  the  fault's  in  the  juxta-position  not  me , 
Whose  poetical  duty's  to  sing  what  I  see. 


First  of  all ,  is  a  tatter'd  «  Legation  of  Moses ,  » 
And  a  Newton  on  «  Light  »  and  Lavater  on  «  Noses ,  » 
And  the  <c  Justice  »  of  Burn  and  the  «  Homer  »  of  Clark , 
And  «  The  Traveller's  Guide ,  by  the  late  Mrs  Stark , — 
(  Mrs  Starkie ,  I  mean , )  and  «  The  Building  of  Babel ,  » 
And  «  The  love  of  one's  self »  and  the  «  Interest  Table ,  » 
And  the  learned  c  JosepJms ,  »  translated  by  Whiston , 
And  an  «  Air  for  the  flute  and,  the  cornet-a-piston ,  » 
And  «  A  Run  to  the  islands  of  Orkney  and  Shetland,  » 
And  Agricola's  «  hint  »  on  the  draining  of  wet  land ,  » 
And  <(  The  spirit  of  Laws  »  and  «  The  Laivs  of  Excise ,  » 


—  15  — 

And  «  The  Letters  of  Lamb  »  and  «  The  Wolf  in  disguise ,  » 
And  a  Cobden  on  «  Corn  »  and  «  The  Wheat  and  the  Tares ,  » 
And  «  Escheiu  the  broad  path  »  and  «  A  Week  at  Broadstairs ,  » 
And  «  A  View  of  the  North  »  and  «  The  Wines  of  the  South ,  » 
ADd  the  «  Logic  »  of  Locke  and  the  «  Grammar  r>  of  Lowth, 
And  «  The  JEgis  of  Health ,  »  or  the  seed  of  white  mustard , 
And  a  volume  of  Buffon ,  containing  the  Bustard 
And  a  score  of  good  birds  with  the  Goose  and  the  Gander, 
And  ((  Botanical  Walks  »  by  the  doctor  Solander , 

!Who  took ,  by  the  bye ,  an  unpleasant  one ,  when , 
With  his  friend ,  Mr  Bankes ,  and  two  seafaring-men , 
He  was  nabb'd  by  the  cold ,  and  could  scarcely  come  to  again ! 
And  «  The  Peacock  at  home  »  and  the  story  of  «  Rimini,  » 
And  <c  A  Sign  of  the  Times ,  »  and  «  The  Sign  oj  the  Gemini , » 
And  «  The  Sign  of  the  Fish,  »  and  «  The  Sign  of  the  Scales,  » 
And  a  work  upon  «  Weights  »  and  «  The  Angler  in  Wales , » 
And  «  The  Beauty  of  Death ,  »  and  «  A  ivord  to  the  wise 
«  On  the  ivay  to  make  friends ,  »  and  «  The  way  to  make  flies. ,  » 
And  «  A  Page  upon  Pigeons,  » — crop,  tumbler,  and  fan-tail, 
And  «  The  Dove  of  Medina,  »  a  true  Caravan-tale! 
And  the  «  Tales  of  the  Tap ,  »  and  «  My  Life  at  the  Bar,  » 
And  the  close  of  Col  :  Napier's  «  Peninsular  War,  » 
And  «  The  Man  of  the  day, » — how  he  came  to  be  seedy, 
And  «  The  Folly  of  Fashion ,  »  by  Experto  crede , 
And  «  The  Perilous  Plight  of  the  Isabel  Whaler,  » 
And  a  «  Memoir  of  Stults ,  »  the  baronial  tailor, 
And  the  «  Thoughts  of  a  Gunner  » —on  breeching  the  swivel , 
And  a  methodist's  «  Slap  in  the  Face  for  the  Devil ,  » 
And  the  bold  Tiger-Davis's  «  Sports  in  the  East ,  » 
And  a  «  Gaution  to  Bakers  » — in  choosing  their  yeast , 

!And  «  The  Bising  of  Satan,  »  set  solemnly  down 
By  the  reverend  Titus  Theophilus  Brown , 
And  Charles  Dicken's  «  Life  of  Grimaldi ,  the  Clown ,  » 
«  The  Arabian  Nights  »  and  «  The  Story  of  Fatima ,  » 


—  16  — 

And  «  The  silly  Xaloun ,  »  and  the  «  Sermons  of  Latimer,  » 
Who  averr'd,  (to  the  bench  what  was  pleasant  as  hyssop,) 
That  Old  Niek  of  them  all  was  by  far  the  best  Bishop ! 
Mrs  Glass  upon  «  Soups ,  »  and  «  The  Supper  of  Plato ,  » 
And  a  «  Guess  »  why  the  rot  should  attack  the  potato , 

«  The  Conversion  of  Said  »  and  «  The  purport  of  Parable  ,  » 
And  «  The  Woeful  Conversion  »  ( of  pasture  to  arable ) 
By  a  bard  of  the  place ,  whose  congenial  pity 
Turn'd  the  debts  of  a  duke  into  food  for  a  ditty! 

«  The  Whole  Duty  of  Man ,  »  ( who  his  duty  doth  do  so ! ) 
And  «  The  Loss  of  The  Drake  » — when  the  hurricane  blew  so, 
And  a  ragged  odd  volume  of  « Robinson  Crusoe,  » 
And  a  Cobbet  on  «  Parsonage-houses  and  Glebes ,  » 
And  that  woDderful  work  on  the  wonderful  Thebes, 
And  <(  A  Wonderful  Cure  »  ( not  a  matter  for  scorning ) 
By  a  crust  of  bread  taken  betimes  in  the  morning ! 


And  (to  turn  to  the  goods  and  the  chattels  again, 
And  attempt  to  describe  the  effects  that  remain, 
From  the  bandaging  swathe  to  the  funeral  pall , 
Which ,  the  one  and  the  other,  are  common  to  all , ) 
There's...  but  no!  the  endeavour,  I  feel,  were  absurd, 
So  to  wind  up  the  warehouse  with  one  little  word, 
When  old  Charon  across  the  sad  river  shall  ferry  you, 
There's  a  capital  coffin  all  ready  to  bury  you ! 


—  17  — 


MOTES. 


(1)  —  « thai  perilous  stuff, 

«   Which,  as  heavy  as  guilt  on  the  soul  of  Macbeth, 

«   When  he'd  put  with  a  dagger  old  Duncan  to  death, 

i'   Weighs  »  etc. 

«  Canst  thou  not  minister  to  a  mind  diseas'd  ; 

«  Pluck  from  out  the  memory  a  rooted  sorrow ; 

«  Raze  out  the  written  troubles  of  the  brain ; 

(i  And ,  with  some  sweet  oblivious  antidote , 

«  Cleanse  the  stufl'd  bosom  of  that  perilous  stuff, 

«  Which  weighs  upon  the  heart?  » 

Shakespeare. 

(2)  — «  Save  of  such,  as,  beneath  Neapolitan  skies, 

«  Gulp  it  down  by  the  yard,  —  the  inur'd  lazzaroni,  » 
What  an  arbitrary  thing  is  Man's  conception  of  felicity !  The  Mahomedan's ,  for  instance ,  is  a  harem  of 
black-eyed  houris  :  the  Esquimaux's  is  unlimited  blubber.  The  Indian  dreams  of  The  Happy  Hunting- 
ground,  while  the  heaven  of  the  Laplander  is  a  boundless  range  of  never  melting  snow,  a  well  provided- 
sledge  ,  and  deer  that  never  tire.  The  poet  Gray ,  again ,  in  one  of  his  easy  letters ,  assures  a 
friend ,  (  a  curious  fancy ,  by  the  bye ,  for  «  the  most  learned  man  in  Europe  »  and  a  denizen  of  cle- 
rical Cambridge,)  that  he  can  form  no  better  notion  of  Paradise  than  to  loll  upon  a  sofa  and  read  the 
novels  of  Crel)illon.  The  beau-ideal  of  bliss,  as  entertained  by  my  father  when  a  boy,  was  to  swing 
away  the  summer  on  a  park-gate  and  eat  ham.  The  lazzaroni's  acme  of  beatitude  ( which ,  lucidly  for 
him ,  is  a  daily  reality , )  is  to  bask  upon  his  back  in  the  delicious  sun  of  Naples ,  and  give  his  gaping 
throat  a  continuous  string  of  macaroni ,  long  enough ,  as  the  saying  is ,  to  reach  from  here  into  the 
middle  of  nest  week.  What  a  pity  is  it ,  that  he  cannot  wash  it  down ,  from  time  to  time ,  with  a  * 
yard  of  Kentish  ale  ! 

(3)  — «  And  a  smack  of  the  lips  of  the  port  had  approv'd,  » 

To  say  nothing  of  sundry  articles  of  good  cheer,  indigenous  to  Great  Britain ,  and  had  over  from  the 
Channel  Islands  for  the  especial  delectation  of  «  nous  aulres  anglais ,  »  the  best  glass  of  port  wine  I 
ever  tasted,  as  well-appointed  parties  as  I  was  ever  at,  and  some  of  the  most  social  hours  I  ever  spent 
in  my  life,  are,  -j-  with  weightier  obligations,  due  to  the  little  town  of  Dinan.     And  here  a  word  —  a 

*  At  a  public-house  on  the  road-side,  (I  think  at  Farningham,)  between  Maidstone  and  London,  ale 
is ,  or  used  to  be ,  sold ,  like  Cambridge  butter,  by  the  yard.  I  have  bought  a  pint  of  eels  in  the  Isle 
of  Wight. 

■J-  On  the  eve  of  setting  off,  in  1828,  for  the  then  usual  foreign  lour,  I  was  prepared  by  the  widow 
of  a  great  poet,  mother  of  the  present  Sir  Percy  Florence  Shelley,  to  find  the  French  precisely  what  I 
have  found  them ,  —  a  the  most  amiable  people  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  »  With  respect  to  their 
political  standing,  were  the  y  only  as  stable  as  able,  it  might  be  still  higher  than  it  is ;  but,  as  it  is,  on 
the  vast  continuity  of  terra  firma  from  Calais  to  King-ching ,  they  are ,  as  a  nation ,  «  facile  el  egregie 
«  summi.  » 


uOn.Oi 


—  18    — 

passing  word,  applied  to  no  particular  colony,  and  least  of  all  to  my  own,  —  of  English  Comfort  ou 
the  Continent. 

In  addition  to  the  two  large  classes  of  Smellfungus  and  Mundungus ,  wjps  n  travel  from  Dan  lo 
«  Bcersheba,  and  cry  that  all  is  barren,  »  there  is  a  third, — the  settlers  abroad, — too  many  of  whom,  / 

though  vitally  indebted  to  its  various  advantages ,  derive  a  morbid  and  ungrateful  pleasure  ( like  Crab 
in  the  «  Tales  of  the  Colonies,  »  )  from  maligning  the  land  of  their  adoption  ,  often  ,  it  is  true ,  the 
residence  of  choice ,  the  resort  of  parents  for  prudential  or  educational  purposes ,  but  often ,  let  us 
own ,  the  asylum  of  extravagance  or  worse.  Quite  regardless  of  the  adage ,  which  enjoins  us  to  «  speak 
'i  well  of  the  bridge,  that  carries  tis  safely  over,  »  these  individuals,  devoid  alike  of  common  courtesy 
and  common  sense,  do  nothing  but  abuse  it.  As  for  the  section  of  them  ,  who ,  from  circumstances , 
are  at  no  sort  of  liberty  to  give  themselves  any  sort  of  dissatisfied  airs ,  and  yet  are  grossly  guilty  of 
such,  they  should  bear  in  mind- Doctor  Priestley's  implied  rebuke  of  a  stage-coach  companion,  to  whose 
pampered  palate ,  forsooth  ,  nothing  on  the  road  was  palatable  ,  and  with  whom  it  was  constantly, 
«  Humph!  very  unlike  what  one  gels  at  home!  »,...«  Very  unlike  what  one  gets  at  home!  »  .  .  . 
■<  Very  unlike  what  one  gets  at  home!  >•  .  .  .  a  Yes,»  said  the  Doctor  at  last,  out  of  all  patience,  and 
looking  the  grumbler  significantly  in  the  face ,  «  Fes ,  Sir,  it  is ,  J  suspect ,  very  unlike  what  some  of 
«  us  do  gel  at  home-  »     The  cap  fitted ,  and  there  were  no  more  complaints. 

Of  the  expatriated  malcontents  of  Albion  the  three  great  tribes  are ,  1°  the  John  Bulls  a  loute 
f'preuvc ,  who  are  fit  for  nothing  in  the  world  but  to  stop  in  England  and  gather  prejudices  in  their 
silly  noddles,  just  as  spiders  gather  poison  in  their  bloated  bags;  2°  the  muddlers,  who,  no  matter 
where,  will  always  make  a  mess  of  it;  and  5°  the  wilful  uncomforlables,  who,  stupidly  bent  (because 
from  home  !  )  on  shutting  the  door  against  even  the  commodities  of  life  ,  deserve  ,  of  course  ,  to  reap 
as  they  have  sown.  The  first,  by  way  of  proving  what  patriotic  Solomons  they  are  and  of  bettering 
the  position,  in  which  it  has  pleased  the  Lord  knows  what  to  place  them,  manfully  eschew  the  foreign 
vernacular;  the  second,  as  the  surest  means  of  their  darling  hugger-mugger,  hire  a  very  cheap,  id 
est,  a  very  bad  domestic;  and  the  third,  of  ample  income  and  decided  gentlefolks,  *  deceive  you 
bitterly  by  asking  you  to  dinner.  But  to  conclude.  If  you  really  wish  to  be  morally  and  physically  com- 
fortable on  the  Continent,  you  should  be  cautious  in  your  acquaintances,  which,  if  badly  formed,  will 
prove  a  serious  inconvenience  ,  like  the  insular  pride  ,  that  makes  us  unpopular,  and  the  insular  pre- 
judice ,  that  makes  us  blind ;  you  should  determine  to  speak  the  language  of  the  country,  and ,  in 
default  of  grammar,  talk  a  steeple-chase ;  you  should  choose  your  house  with  judgement ,  and  go  a 
part  towards  improving  it;  you  should  furnish  it  well  and  warmly;  you  should  engage,  at  a  fair  priee, 
a  good  -j-  native  cook  and  a  good  native  house-maid  ;  you  should  be  at  the  necessary  pains  with  your 
company-keeping,  if  company  you  keep ;  and ,  ( to  close  where  we  commenced,)  since  the  from- 
Oporto-direet-imported  port  of  my  worthy  friend ,  William  H.  Kerr,  Esq1',  is  not  attainable  by  you  and  me , 
you  should  buy  your  claret  and  your  burgundy  of  a  rich  and  honest  man ,  like  Monsieur  Charles  Larere. 

*    «  Et  n'diibliez  jamais  dans  le  cours  de  la  vie , 
«  Qu'un  diner  sans  facon  ffit  une  perfidie.   » 

«  La  Gastronomic  »  de  Bekchoux. 
The  fashionable  Count  d'Orsay  is  said  to  have  announced  his  intention  of  calling  out  an  individual , 
remarkable  for  the  badness  of  his  dinners ,  in  case  he  should  receive  an  invitation  to  one  of  them. 
The  declaration  was  worthy  of  Brummel  himself. 

■f  Dean  Swift,  in  some  characteristic  lines  upon  Courtship,  gives  a  capital  receipt  for  making  a 
couple  of  fools  in  a  couple  of  months  :  an  old  stager  on.  the  Continent  could  give  as  good  an  one,  in  a 
couple  of  words,  for  making  a  new-come  couple  mad  in  a  couple  of  days,  viz.  an  English  servant :  «  Oh! 
«  I  do  assure  you,  a  most  respectable  young  woman  indeed," — that  turns  up  her  nose  at  every  thing, 
and  wants  a  vast  deal  more  waiting  on  in  the  kitchen  than  her  master  and  mistress  do  in  the  parlour. 
To  this  general  rule  there  is  an  occasional  exception,  when,  after  the  first  ridiculous  dilemmas  are 
over,  she  is  indeed  «  a  perfect  treasure ,  >■  especially  to  your  young  children. 


—  19  — 

(i)  —  '<  Be  the  theory  false  or  the  theory  true, 

«  That  the  whole  of  a  life ,  in  a  second  or  two , 

n  May  be  run  in  a  vision  as  rapidly  over 

a  As  the  submarine  line  between  Calais  and  Dover, 

«  No !  there's  nothing  to  me  so  irrelevant  seems 

a  To  the  nature  of  sense  as  the  nature  of  dreams , 

«  Of  the  which,  as  a  proof  how  philosophers  fail, 

«  Neither  Brewster  nor  Brougham  can  make  head  or  tail,  » 
Sir  David  Brewster  and  Lord  Brougham  have  written  respectively  on  Natural  Magic  and  Natural 
Theology.    It  is  in  the  latter  work ,  that  the  *  theory  of  dreams ,  aliove  alluded  to  ,  is  to  he  found. 
Lord  Byron  gives  much  more  latitude  of  time  : 

«  I  would  recall  a  vision ,  which  I  dreamt , 

a  Perchance  in  sleep  ,  —  for  in  itself  a  thought , 

«  A  slumbering  thought ,  is  capable  of  years , 

«  And  curdles  a  long  life  into  one  hour.  » 

The  Dream. 

(b)  —  «  A  collection  of  rags ,  that's  intended  for  Tovil.  >■ 
Maidstone ,  (  8  miles  from  <c  the  three  towns  »  of  Rochester,  Chatham ,  and  Strood , )  with  its  neigh- 
bourhood ,  Sandlin  ,  Tovil ,  Loose ,  etc. ,  is  famous  for  its  paper-mills. 

(6)  —  « and  many  a  spar, 

«  That  ivas  «  wounded  severely  »  at  hoi  Trafalgar,  » 
The  author  of  n  Don  Juan  »  is  indebted  for  his  amusing 

«  Arras  they  prick'd  and  curtains  with  their  swords , 
«  And  wounded  several  shutters  and  some  boards,  » 

*  '<  The  bodily  functions  are  in  part  suspended  during  sleep ,  that  is ,  all  those  which  depend  upon 
n  volition.  The  senses,  however,  retain  a  portion  of  their  acuteness;  and  those  of  touch  and  hearing, 
<t  especially,  may  be  affected  without  awakening  the  sleeper.  The  consequence  of  the  cessation,  which 
«  takes  place  of  all  communication  of  ideas  through  the  senses ,  is ,  that  the  action  of  the  mind  ,  and , 
«  above  all,  of  those  powers  connected  with  the  imagination,  becomes  much  more  vigorous  and  unin- 
n  terrupted.  This  is  shown  in  two  ways — first,  by  the  celerity,  with  which  any  impression  upon  the 
«  senses,  strong  enough  to  be;  felt  without  awaking,  is  caught  up  and  made  the  groundwork  of  a  new 
k  train  of  ideas ,  the  mind  instantly  accommodating  itself  to  the  suggestions  of  the  impression ,  and 
(i  making  all  its  thoughts  chime  in  with  that;  and,  secondly,  by  the  prodigiously  long  succession  of 
«  images,  that  pass  through  the  mind,  with  perfect  distinctness  and  liveliness,. in  an  instant  of  time.  » 

« One  second  only  is  the  duration  of  the  dream,  which  yet  seems  to  last 

n  for  years,  so  numerous. are  the  images  that  compose  it.  » 

«  There  seems  every  reason  to  conclude ,  from  these  facts ,  that  we  only  dream  during  the  instant 
«  of  transition  into  and  out  of  sleep.  That  instant  is  quite  enough  to  account  for  the  whole  of  what 
n  appears  a  night's  dream.  » 

An  intellect  like  Lord  Brougham's  can  do  all  but  impossibilities  :  granting  him  right  about  his 
marvellously  comprehensive  moment  of  lime ,  the  enigma  of  dreams  is  still  unsolved  and  unsolvable , 
even  by  him.  Sometimes  prophetic ,  sometimes  sustained ,  sometimes  unconnected,  sometimes  highly 
intellectual,  sometimes  downright  absurd,  who  can  pretend  to  expound  them  properly?  A  double 
instance  of  the  last  case  happened,  in  one  and  the  same  night,  to  a  boy  by  the  name  of  Spence 
(my  bedfellow  at  D1'  Burney's)  and  myself,  the  one  of  us  having  dreamt,  that  he  had  been  playing 
fives  with  the  Princess  Charlotte,  and  the  other,  that  he  had  been  catching  crabs  with  ..Eneas!  Would 
our  waking  thoughts  have  ever  taken  so  preposterous  a  turn  ? 


—  20  — 

to  nautic  phraseology ,  comme  le  void  : 

k  The  fore-topmast  of  the  Defence  and  the  mizeu-topmast  and  fore  and  main  top-gallant  masts  of 
«  the  Alexander  were  shot  away ,  and  the  latter's  main-topmast  also  fell  on  the  3d ,  in  consequence  of 
«  the  wounds  it  had  received.  » 

Allen's  «  Baltics  of  the  British  Navy.  » 

a  Thus  crippled ,  and  having  all  her  sails  riddled ,  and  her  remaining  masts  badly  wounded ,  the 
«  Mermaid  ceased  firing.  » 

Idem. 
«  A  heavy  gale  came  on  shortly  after  the  action  had  ceased,  and  the  Mermaid's  foremast,  in  eonse- 
«  quence  of  its  severe  wounds ,  fell.  » 

Idem. 
«  The  Sybille  had  all  her  masts  and  yards  on  the  main  and  mizen  masts  wounded  ,  and  her  sails  am! 
«  rigging  very  much  cut ,  »  etc. 

Idem. 
«  The  action  continued  unabated  until  5  h.  p.  m.  by  which  time  the  Immortality,  having  hermizen- 
«  mast  shot  away,  —  her  other  masts  badly  wounded,  —  very  leaky  from  shot  holes,  i> — etc. 

Idem. 

(7)  —  « and  a  huge  figure-head 

«  Of  the  Dutchman,  de  Winter,  with  such  a  cock'd  hat  on, 
«  As  ivould  keep  from  the  snow  whosoever  had  that  on !  » 
«  In  reviewing  the  events  of  this  action ,  »  ( the  battle  of  Camperdown ,  fought  by  the  English  and 
Dutch  fleets ,  the  one  under  the  command  of  Admiral  Duncan  and  the  other  under  that  of  Admiral  de 
Winter,  on  the  IIth  of  October,  1797,)  «  the  details  of  which,  owing  to  the  unavoidably  confused 
k  nature  of  the  attack  ,  cannot  be  clearly  given  or  comprehended  ,  it  is  hard  to  know  which  to  admire 
«  most ,  —  the  conduct  of  the  gallant  Duncan  and  his  brave  followers ,  or  the  courage  of  the  enemy. 
«  Not  a  ship  was  surrendeied  while  in  a  condition  to  fight,  and,  while  lauding  the  skill  and  good 
o  seamanship  of  our  own  countrymen ,  we  must  not  omit  to  do  justice  to  the  valour  of  the  Dutch.  » 

Idem. 

(8)  — «  And  there's  Levy  himself,  with  his  brass-butlon'd  blue  coat, 

«   Which  but  yesterday  week,  as  he  says,  was  a  new  coat, 
«  And  his  beaver,  already  discolour'd  and  brown,  » 

Though  the  wear-and-tear  of  clothes  in  such  a  business  would  be  considerable ,  I  was  nevertheless 
a  good  deal  surprised  when  the  master  of  it  said  to  me  :  «  There ,  Sir,  nobody  would  believe  it ,  but 
«  the  coat  and  hat ,  I  have  now  on ,  were  quite  new  only  eight  days  ago.  » 

(9)  — «  Such  is  Levy ,  all  matters  that  cooly  doth  lake  so ,  » 

So  far  as  the  observation  of  an  idler  is  worth  anything ,  I  should  pronounce  a  certain  quietude  of 
manner  the  certain  criterion  of  a  genuine  man  of  business.     Chaucer,  in  his  inimitable  «  Canterbury 
•<  Tales,  »  strikes  off,  in  a  couple  of  lines  and  in  the  person  of  a  lawyer,  the  whole  genus  of  fussers : 
a  So  busy  a  man  as  he  there  n'as , 
n  And  yet  he  seemed  busier  than  he  was.  » 

(10)  — «  Or  in  Town  at  the  sale  of  an  old  man-o'-war, 

«  When  the  Cockers  are  working  the  value  together, 
«  While  a  lounger  and  he  are  discussing  the  weather*  »■ 


—  21  — 

At  the  close  of  the  sale',  which  ended  in  the  leviathan  lot  being  knocked  down  to  Levy,  the  pencillers 
rame  up  to  him,  and  were  for  making  out,  that,  for  once  in  his  life,  he  had  burnt  his  fingers.  «  How 
«  so?  »  was  the  inquiry.  They  then  showed  him  their  calculations.  «  Yes,  Gentlemen,  »  said  Levy, 
«  that's  all  very  well  as  far  as  it  goes,  but  you  have  forgotten  the  copper-headed  nails,  »  —  no  in- 
significant item  in  a  90-gun  ship  ! 

(U)  —  «  As  he  nods  for  the  'mars'  with  as  little  ado, 
«  As  he  yesterday  did  for  another  'belle  vue.'  » 

Such,  I  believe,  is  the  name  of  the  charming  villa  at  GiUingbam,  near  Chatham,  the  some-time  resi- 
dence of  the  late  Admiral  Sir  John  Marshall,  the  view  of  the  «  Beach  »  from  the  drawing-room  window 
of  which  is  indeed  a  fine  one. 

(12)  —  a  At  the  lime  (but  I  cannot  remember  the  year) 

«  MT  Booth  acted  Kean  so  successfully  here.  » 
Booth ,  who  went  through  Kean's  favorite  parts  at  Rochester,  was  so  determined  and  so  close  an 
imitator  of  that  wonderful  actor,  that  the  latter,  resolved  to  put  a  stop  to  it ,  bullied  his  histrionic 
shadow  so  unmercifully  in  the  famous  scene  between  Othello  and  Iago ,  that  poor  Booth  ventured  on 
no  more  of  his  ( really  very  clever )  fac-similes.  My  informant ,  who  was  present  at  this  acting-down 
at  Drury  Lane ,  described  Kean  as  magnificent  on  the  occasion.  His  Othello ,  at  all  times ,  was  worth 
living  for, —  a  perfect  chef-d'muvre  in  a  most  difficult  art. 

(13)  — «  And  a  magical  strop  of  the  pattern-farm  Mechi ,  » 

There  was  a  long  account  in  Galignani's  «  Messenger,  »  some  months  ago ,  of  the  great  cutler's  model- 
farm  at  Highgate,  and  of  the  numerous  and  distinguished  visitors,  who,  on  a  grand  show-day,  honoured 
him  with  their  admiration  and  their — appetite. 

(14)  — «  And  another  with  «  Pray,  Sir,  Remember  the  Debtors,  » 

«  As,  in  sooth,  the  poor  creditors  commonly  do, 
«   When  they  look  with  a  sigh  at  each  pale  10  U!  » 
The  celebrated  Crockford  papered  one  of  his  rooms  in  a  very  noble  manner  indeed,  viz.  with  IOUs! 

(15)  — «  And  a  bowl  to  make  toddy  and  bishop  and  pope,  » 

The  first  is  a  «  very  pretty  tipple, »  composed  of  any  sort  of  spirituous  liquor,  sugar,  and  hot  water; 
the  second,  of  mulled  port  wine,  nutmeged,  and  a  spicy  orange  or  lemon  floating  therein,  with  plenty 
of  sugar;  the  third,  of  claret,  instead  of  port,  etc.  etc.  As  another  proof  of  how  we  English  carry  our 
habits  with  us,  I  recollect,  in  the  Valley  of  Chamouni,  one  of  a  knot  of  young  men  asking  the  waiter, 
at  the  Hotel  de  l'Union ,  if  lie  knew  how  to  make  «  bishop? »  «  Certainly,  Sir, »  was  the  answer  of 
the  Swiss  garcon,  it  only,  having  no  port,  I  hope  vous  aulres  Messieurs  won't  object  to  pope 
«  instead  IV.  »  He  told  us,  that  the  English  often  made  the  same  demand.  We  emptied  three  brimming 
bowls,  and  retired  to  rest  with  our  intellects  not  quite  so  bright  as  the  eyes  of  Madame  de  StaeT  or  of 
Madame  de  Recamier.  * 

(16)  — a  and  a  roller  for  paste, 

«  (Mem.  the  lightest  is  made  with  light  hands  and  in  haste,)  » 
— a  truism,  depend  on't,  though  poked  in  a  parenthesis.     It  is  a  common  saying,  that «  The  Almighty 
«  fits  the  back  to  the  burden.  » — Sure  it  is,  that  certain  individuals  carry  their  weight  of  ill  surprisingly 

*  n  This  is  the  first  time ,  »  said  some  tilled  trifler,  whom  bis  rank  had  placed ,  at  a  «  grand  soupcr,  » 
between  those  illustrious  ladies,  «  that  I  ever  sat  between  Wit  and  Beauty.  »  «  And  this  is  the  first 
«  time,  »  replied  Madame  de  Staei  with  a  ready  delicacy,  which  did  equal  honour  to  her  head  and 
heart ,  «  that  I  ivas  ever  thought  handsome.  » 


—  22  — 

well,  an  instance  of  which  came  under  my  own  knowledge  in  the  person  of — ,  who,  beginning  life 
with  10,000  L,  ended  it  with  all  his  worldly  goods,  exclusive  of  the  gear  he  had  on,  packable  in  a 
pocket  hand-kerchief.  A  year  or  two  before  he  died  ,  he  called  upon  his  youngest  sister,  who ,  as  it 
happened,  was  busy  in  the  pantry  preparing  a  pie.  As  he  would'nt  hear  of  her  leaving  her  occupation, 
he  uufolded  his  tale  of  misery  on  the  spot,  but  presently  broke  off  with  «  Lord!  Jemima,  that  is  'nl 
«  the  way  to  make  paste!  I  '11  show  you  how  to  make  paste.  »  Whereupon  he  began  kneading 
and  flouring  and  sprinkling  and  buttering  and  rolling  away  at  a  great  rate.  «  There,  »  said  he ,  at  the 
end  of  two  or  three  minutes ,  «  that  's  the  way  to  make  paste !  »  and  then  resumed  his  catalogue 
of  calamities,  stating  how  he  was  the  most  unfortunate  fellow  in  the  world,  did'nt  have  a  shilling  in 
it,  etc.  Stopping  to  discuss  the  pie,  which  he  had  helped  to  make,  he  kept  his  sister  and  her  husband 
in  a  roar  of  laughter  with  his  convivial  powers  till  12  o'  clock  at  night! 

(17)  —  ii  (Oh!  llial  witty  Sam  Foote ,  with  his  'Thro'  the  wood,  laddie!' )» 

A  brother-actor,  well  aware  of  Foote's  inveterate  habit  of  punning,  laid  him  a  heavy  sum,  that  he 
would  not  travel  from  London  to  York  (where  they  were  going  to  perform)  without  giving  a  proof  of 
it.  The  bet  was  taken,  and  they  started  by  the  Dilly.  Arrived  at  Stamford,  they  saw  a  man  standing 
in  the  pillory.  Foote ,  perfectly  on  his  guard  thitherto ,  vented  his  joke ,  without  compromising  his 
money,  by  whistling  the  then-popular  air  of  «  Thro'  the  wood,  laddie, » —  a  charming  little  song,  by 
the  bye.  As  pithy  a  correspondence,  as  is  fouud  on  record ,  is  connected  with  the  name  of  Foote.  It 
runs  as  follows  : 

«  Dear  Mother, 

ii  I  am  in  debt  and  in  prison. 

i<  Your  dutiful  son  , 

ii  Sam  :  Foote.  » 
To  which  the  answer  was  : 
«  Dear  Sam , 

«  So  am  I. 

«  Your  affectionate  mother, 

«  Mary  Foote.  » . 

(18)  —  cr  And  a  d — d  pair  of  slocks,  such  as  Roffe  my  feel  in 

«  Compell'd  me  to  put,  » 

Gentle  reader,  if,  at  an  unseasonably  early  period  of  life ,  you,  too,  should  have  given  up  dancing, 
it  was ,  I  hope ,  for  some  more  satisfactory  reason  than  mine, — t!ie  having  nothing  to  say  to  your 
partner.  <•  Apropos  »  of  small  talk  ,  Miss  Edgeworth  ,  in  a  note  to  her  clever  novel  of  «  Belinda ,  >. 
instances  the  fact  of  a  booby  young  baronet ,  who  particularly  requested  to  be  introduced  to  a  great 
beauty  and  heiress  at  the  County-Ball.  His  request  was  complied  with ,  and  he  led  her  out  to  dance. 
After  a  dead  silence  of  ten  minutes,  he  mustered  up  '<  esprit »  enough  to  say  to  her  :  «  Pray,  Jl/iss, 
«  don't  you  think  those  candles  want  snuffing  famously?  •>  —  Me  voila!. 

(19)  —  it  Buonaparte  in  «  biscuit ,  » 

Not  the  baker's ,  but  the  potter's.  The  choice  clay,  of  which  it  is  composed  ,  is  found  at  Limoges  , 
in  France ,  where  the  great  manufactories  are. 

(20)  —  ii   Which  ivas  own'd  (from  the  scrawl)  by  a  pupil  of  Knox's,  » 

Doctor  Knox  ,  late  head-master  of  Tunbridge  Grammar  School ,  in  Kent ,  one  of  the  best  endowed  in 
the  kingdom,  and  well  worth  the  thought  and  inquiry  of  parents. 


—  23  — 

(21)  — « and  a  '  China-made  cabinet, 

«   With  its  figures,  that  stand,  whether  dumpy  or  tall, 
•t  Like  the  Brahmin's  big  tortoise,  on  nothing  at  all.  » 

The  Brahmins,  bothered  about  the  gravitation,  came  to  the  ingenious  conclusion,  that  the  earth 
was  supported  by  an  enormous  elephant ,  which  stood  upon  an  enormous  tortoise ,  which ,  in  turn , 
stood  upon — nothing  at  all ! 

(22)  —  «  And  the  sauce  of  Tomata  to  eat  with  your  mullet,  » 

One  of  the  best  dishes  at  Monsieur  Carre's  excellent  table -d' hole  at  Quimper,  Lower  Brittany,  was 
(to  my  taste  at  least)  the  rougcl,  dressed  with  red  sauce.  Excellent  fish,  excellent  poultry,  excellent 
game, —  such  are  the  gastronomic  recommendations  of  Le  Finistere  :  the  poetic  and  pictorial  ones  are 
correspondingly  great.     But,  if  of  a  feverish  temperament,  don't  reside  there. 

(25)  —  it  And  a  pistol  to  settle  your  love  with  a  bullet,  » 
There's  nothing  like  a  little  bit  of  sentiment.     Some  years  ago,  a  young  German ,  «  a  sallow,  sublime, 
«  sort  of  Werter-fac'd  man ,  »  hopelessly  enamoured  of  an  English  fair  one,  blew  out  his  brains  in  Hyde 
Park  with  a  pistol ,  loaded  with  a  silver  ball ,  and  tied  about  with  pink  ribbons ! 

(24)  —  cc  And  a  shell  from  the  shore  of  the  far  Coromandel ,  » 

The  finest  specimens  of  conchology  come  from  the  two  Indies  :  the  eastern,  I  believe,  are  reckoned 
the  «  ne  plus  ultra.  » 

*  H  I  have  an  almost  feminine  partiality  for  old  china.  When  I  go  to  see  any  great  house,  I  inquire 
<i  for  the  china-closet,  and  next  for  the  picture  gallery.  I  cannot  defend  the  order  of  preference  but 
n  by  saying,  that  we  have  all  some  taste  or  other,  of  too  ancient  a  date  to  admit  of  our  remembering 
«  distinctly  that  it  was  an  acquired  one.  I  can  call  to  mind  the  first  play,  and  the  first  exhibition , 
«  that  I  was  taken  to ;  but  I  am  not  conscious  of  a  time  when  china  jars  and  saucers  were  introduced 
«  into  my  imagination. 

(i  I  had  no  repugnance  then — why  should  I  now  have? — to  those  little,  lawless,  azure-tinctured  gro- 
«  tesques ,  that ,  under  the  notion  of  men  and  women ,  float  about ,  uncircumscribed  by  any  element , 
"  in  that  world  before  perspective — a  china  tea-cup. 

«  I  like  to  see  my  old  friends — whom  distance  cannot  diminish — figuring  up  in  the  air  (so  they  appear 
■i  to  our  optics),  yet  on  terra  firma  still — for  so  we  must  in  courtesy  interpret  that  speck  of  deeper 
«  blue,  which  the  decorous  artist,  to  prevent  absurdity,  has  made  to  spring  up  beneath  their  sandals. 

«  I  love  the  men  with  women's  faces,  and  the  women,  if  possible,  with  still  more  womanish  expres- 
«  sions. 

«  Here  is  a  young  and  courtly  Mandarin ,  handing  tea  to  a  lady  from  a  salver — two  miles  off.  See 
it  how  distance  seems  to  set  off  respect!  And  here  the  same  lady,  or  another, — for  likeness  is  identity 
ii  on  tea-cups, — is  stepping  into  a  little  fail  y  boat,  moored  on  the  hither  side  of  this  calm  garden  river, 
ii  with  a  dainty  mincing  fool,  which  in  a  right  angle  of  incidence  (as  angles  go  in  our  world)  must 
«  infallibly  land  her  in  the  midst  of  a  flowery  mead — a  furlong  off,  on  the  other  side  of  the  same 
ii  strange  stream ! 

<i  Faither  on — if  far  or  near  can  be  predicated  of  their  world — see  horses ,  trees ,  pagodas ,  dancing 
ii  the  hays. 

ii  Here — %  cow  and  rabbit  couchant ,  and  co-extensive — so  objects  show,  seen  through  the  lucid 
ii  atmosphere  of  line  Cathay.  » 

n  And  now  do  just  look  at  that  merry  little  Chinese  waiter  holding  an  umbrella ,  big  enough  for  a 
•i  bed-tester,  over  the  head  of  that  pretty  insipid  half'-Madona-ish  chit  of  a  lady  in  that  very  blue 
<|  summer-house.  » 

Essay  on  «  Old  China ,  »  by  Elia  ,  i.  e.  Charles  Lamb. 


—  24  — 

(25) —  «  And  the  horn  of  a  whale,  (pray  acquit  me  of  scandal,) 
n   Which  is  almost  as  long  as  a  Catholic  candle'.  » 

Of  the  Sea-Unicorn ,  or  Narwhal ,  the  «  Nouveau  Dictionnaire  d'Bistoire  Naturelle  »  ( translated ) 
thus  writes  :  «  It  is  a  species  of  cetaceous  fish ,  remarkable  for  its  long  conical  tooth  furrowed  spirally, 
«  and  which  protrudes  horizontally  from  its  upper  jaw.  This  tooth ,  of  a  fine  grain  and  as  white  as 
«  ivory,  is  straight ,  and  more  than  ten  feet  long.  The  animal  ought  to  have  two ,  but  the  second  is 
«  generally  broken.  It  is  a  weapon ,  with  which  the  narwhal  defends  itself  against  the  seals  and  the 
(i  dolphins ,  that  attack  it ;  it  contrives ,  too ,  to  pierce  the  whale  with  it  in  the  battles,  which  occur- 
«  between  them.     The  *  Land-Unicorn  is  a  fabulous  creature.  » 

The  Narwhal,  according  to  Button,  (or,  rather,  Lacepede,  for  Button  stopped  at  the  birds,)  runs  his 
dinner  through  and  eats  it  off  the  spit ,  which  ,  of  course,  saves  a  good  deal  of  trouble.  In  a  soi-disant 
translation  of  the  above,  I  have  read,  that  the  narwhals  swim  along  in  such  mighty  shoals,  that,  from 
whatever  secondary  cause,  ( irritation  perhaps, )  they  thrust  their  weapons  into  one  another,  constituting 
(as  brother  Jonathan  would  say,)  «a  regular  fix.  »  Button's  work  itself,  however,  informs  us,  that 
the  animal ,  which  happens  to  be  in  the  rear,  lays  his  «  defense  »  on  the  back  of  his  friend  in  front , 
making  him  his  porter  for  the  nonce, — a  clever  dodge  again.  The  fish  is  no  fool.  I  remember  seeing 
a  very  handsome  horn  in  a  drawing-room  at  Maidstone ,  belonging  to  the  gentleman ,  who  conducts 
«  The  Maidstone  Journal.  »  «  Le  Musie  »  at  St.  Denis ,  near  Paris ,  was  excessively  proud  of  a  similar 
possession. 

(26)  — «   While  «  Mendoza's  »  a-squaring  away  at  «  St.  Peter  !  m 

Another  Dutch  story !  Mynheer  — ,  who  had  taken  to  farming  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  Gravesend  , 
was  equally  surprised  and  annoyed,  as  he  was  standing  in  his  farm-yard  one  day,  to  hear  the  report  of 
a  gun  and  to  see  a  pigeon  fall  dead.  Running  to  the  adjoining  field ,  he  found  the  delinquent  quietly 
bagging  the  bird.  Collaring  him  in  a  fury,  he  spluttered  out  all  manner  of  menaces  and  all  manner 
of  oaths ,  <i  donner  and  blitzen  »  being  violently  mixed  up  with  the  English  shibboleth.  The  poor 
fellow  was  all  penitence  and  submission,  which,  as  is  usual,  only  exasperated  the  Dutchman  the  more. 
«  What  is  your  name,  you  d — d  rascal!  What  is  your  name,  I  say?  » — «  Oh!  Sir!  I  hope  you'll 
«  let  me  off  this  once.  » — «  What  is  your  name ,  I  say?  tell  me  directly ,  or  I  '11  beat  all  the  breath 
«  out  of  your  body!» — «  Oh!  my  name,  Sir,  is  Daniel  Mendoza.  »  «  Daniel  Mendoza!  said  the 
Dutchman  ,  letting  go  his  collar  instantly  and  drawing  a  very  long  breath ,  .  .  .  . — «  Ah !  Mister 
"  Mendoza!  (in  a  earnying  tone,  and  patting  the  famous  boxer  affectionately  on  the  shoulder,)  «  Ah! 
"  Mister  Mendoza !  you  should  not  shoot  my  pigeon !  » 

(27)  —  k  And  a  hammer  on  purpose  to  pummel  your  belly  with,  » 

—  the  morning  habit  of  a  certain  very  able  and  very  active  County-Member,  whose  constituents  are 
bound  to  pray,  that  he  may  pummel  himself  for  twenty  years  to  come ! 

(28)  —  k  And  an  image  in  wax  of  the  bonnie  Queen  Bess, 

«  As  she  went  to  Saint  Paul's, » 

to  thank  God  ( as  well  she  might )  for  the  Providential  destruction  of  The  Spanish  Armada. 

*  «  Every  thing  leads  us  to  suppose ,  that  the  knowledge  of  the  narwhal's  existence ,  in  the  middle 
«  ages  ,  recalled  the  fable  of  the  Unicorn  of  old.  It  is ,  at  all  events  ,  at  that  period  of  feudalism , 
«  when  every  ennobled  person  adopted  arms  and  crests,  that  we  see  the  weapon  of  the  narwhal  figure 
«  upon  the  head  of  a  horse,  thus  transmitting,  in  the  devices  of  heraldry,  a  proof  of  the  ignorance  of 
«  yore. » 

BUFF9N. 


—  25  — 

(29)  — « and  a  masquerade  dress,  » 

A  fair  young  colonist  of  Dinan  ,  who  revisited  England  some  time  ago,  said,  that,  among  other 
London  gaities,  she  had  assisted  at  a  bal-masque ,  where  a  couple  of  characters  entered  the  room 
arm-in-arm  ,  dressed  up,  respectively,  as  a  cod's  head-and-shoulders  and  oyster  sauce !  1  know  not 
which  amused  me  most,  the  singular  whim  of  the  two  deguises ,  or  the  singular  gravity,  with  which 
the  foolery  was  recounted. 

(30)  — «  And  a  roquelaure  cloak  and  a  warm  Jersey  jacket,  » 

The  genius  of  Sterne  has  rendered  the  roquelaure  cloak  of  «  my  uncle  Toby  »  as  classical  as  the 
clilamys  of  Priam  or  Ulysses.  As  to  the  Jersey  jacket,  it  is,  like  the  French  camisole,  of  woollen 
texture ,  and  has  alternate  stripes  of  hlack  and  white. 

(31) — *  «  German  pipe  and  a  (regular  English)  spiloon,  » 
The  story  goes,  that  one  of  our  metropolitan  merchants,  quickly  finding  out  his  Turkish  carpet  was 
by  no  means  improved  by  his  smoking  correspondent  from  Rotterdam,  purchased  a  safe-guard  for  it 
in  the  shape  of  a  painted  spitoon ,  which ,  at  the  next  visit ,  was  placed  near  his  Dutch  friend 
accordingly.  The  Hollander,  after  being  at  infinite  pains  about  the  matter,  cried  out  at  last  in  a  pet : 
«  By  gar,  Saar,  if  you  no  take  dal  pretty  ting  away ,  I  shall  spit  in  il  presently !  » 

(32)  — «  And  the  brave  Chesapeake  and  the  Shannon ,  that  (ought  her,  » 
This  naval  tournament,  where  the  challenge  was  sent  by  the  English  officer,  Captain  Broke,  of  the 
Shannon,  to  Captain  Lawrence,  came  off  somewhere  about  the  lsl  of  June,  1813,  in  Boston  Harbour, 
and  was  decided  in  favour  of  the  former  in  the  short  space  of  eleven  minutes.  In  every  way  the 
honour  of  the  tilt  was  with  the  British.  I  well  recollect  the  illumination  for  the  victory  at  Rochester, 
and  the  patriotic  transparency  at  The  Crown. 

(33)  — «  And  the  lucky  «  Tom  Thumb,  »  (may  he  never  grow  larger!)  » 
■<  General  Tom  Thumb  »  has  had  the  distinguished  honour  of  being  kissed  by  the  first  potentate  in 
Europe.     Could  Fortune  do  more? 

(34)  —  «  And  a  likeness  of  «  Mynn  »  and  of  «  Wenmann  »  and  «  Pilch,  » 
— three  famous  cricketers  in  Kent. 

(3b)  — «  And  a  likeness  of  «Peachum»  and  «  Lockit»  and  «  Filch,  » 
— three  famous  rogues  in  «  The  Beggar's  Opera.  » 

(36)  — «  And  the  glorious  jump  of  the  patriot  Tell,  » 

In  the  lake  of  Lucerne ,  alias  of  the  four  Cantons ,  tradition  points  out  a  rock ,  whence ,  escaping 
from  the  Austrian  and  his  boat ,  the  Swiss  Wallace  sprang  to  the  shore  and  darted  up  the  mountain. 
Ever  excepting  that  of  Sergeant  John  White ,  who  ( with  no  mad  bull  after  him  either)  leapt  a  foss 
eight  and  twenty  feet  broad  (!!!)  it  is,  of  course,  the  Jupiter  of  jumps.  But  alas!  the  same  mischievous 
spirit  of  Pyrrhoism ,  which  questions  the  reputed  prowess  of  Horatius  Codes ,  is  growing  sceptical  of 
William  Tell.     And  thus  it  is  : 

«  I've  heard  Troy  doubted  :  Time  will  doubt  of  Rome.  » 

(37)  —  «  And  «  Sir  W.  C. ,  »  that  lov'd  alderman's  jelly , 

«  And  whose  guest  was  his  king ,  and  whose  God  was  his  belly !  » 

By  mistake,  the  note  npon  Mendoza  and  the  Dutchman  (26)  has  been  made  to  precede  the  present 
one ,  to  which ,  by  rights ,  it  ought  to  have  been  posterior. 


—  26  — 

A  report  was  rife,  that  his  Majesty,  George  IV,  used  occasionally  to  dine  incognito  with  the  cele- 
brated bon-vivanl ,  whose  lunchion  of  two  15-shilling  basins  of  real  turtle  assuredly  did  not  augur  ill 
for  8  o'  clock ,  p.  m. 

(58)  —  «Clara  Fisher,  as  Shylock,  » 
If ,  according  to  the  acumen  of  Charles  Lamb ,  ( see  Elia's  excellent  essay  *  a  On  the  Tragedies  of 
«  Shakspeare ,  »)  the  prime  plays  of  our  great  dramatist  are  essentially  beyond  the  reach  of  repre- 

*  «  It  may  seem  a  paradox,  but  I  cannot  help  being  of  opinion,  that  the  plays  of  Shakspeare  are  less 
u  calculated  for  performance  on  a  stage ,  than  those  of  almost  any  other  dramatist  whatever.  Their 
«  distinguishing  excellence  is  a  reason  that  they  should  be  so.  There  is  so  much  in  them,  which 
«  comes  not  under  the  province  of  acting,  with  which  eye,  and  tone,  and  gesture,  have  nothing  to  do. 
«  The  glory  of  the  scenic  art  is  to  personate  passion  and  the  turns  of  passion ;  and  the  more 
«  coarse  and  palpable  the  passion  is,  the  more  hold  upon  the  eyes  and  ears  of  the  spectators  the  per- 
il former  obviously  possesses.  For  this  reason  ,  scolding  scenes  ,  scenes  where  two  persons  talk 
«  themselves  into  a  lit  of  fury,  and  then  in  a  surprising  manner  talk  themselves  out  of  it  again,  have 
«  always  been  the  most  popular  upon  our  stage.  And  the  reason  is  plain  ,  because  the  spectators  are 
«  here  most  palpably  appealed  to,  they  are  the  proper  judges  in  this  war  of  words,  they  are  the  legi- 
«  timate  ring,  that  should  be  formed  round  such  "  intellectual  prize-lighters.  "  Talking  is  the  direct 
«  object  of  the  imitation  here.  But  in  all  the  best  dramas,  and  in  Shakspeare  above  all,  how  obvious 
«  it  is,  that  the  form  of  speaking,  whether  it  be  in  soliloquy  or  dialogue,  is  only  a  medium,  and 
<i  often  a  highly  artificial  one,  for  putting  the  reader  or  spectator  into  possession  of  that  knowledge  of 
«  the  inner  structure  and  workings  of  mind  in  a  character,  which  he  could  otherwise  never  have  arriv- 
k  ed  at  in  that  form  of  composition  by  any  gift  short  of  intuition.  We  do  here  as  we  do  with  novels 
«  written  in  the  epistolary  form.  How  many  improprieties,  perfect  solecisms  in  letter-writing,  do  we 
«  put  up  with  in  Clarissa  and  other  books,  for  the  sake  of  the  delight,  which  that  form,  upon  the 
«  whole  ,  gives  us  ! 

ii  But  the  practice  of  stage  representation  reduces  every  thing  to  a  controversy  of  elocution. 
k  Every  character,  from  the  boisterous  blasphemings  of  Bajazet  to  the  shrinking  timidity  of  woman- 
k  hood,  must  play  the  orator.  The  love-dialogues  of  Romeo  and  Juliet,  those  silver-sweet  sounds  of 
n  lovers'  tongues  by  night;  the  more  intimate  and  sacred  sweetness  of  nuptial  colloquy  between  an 
t<  Othello  or  a  Posthumus  with  their  married  wives,  all  those  delicacies,  which  are  so  delightful  in  the 
«  reading ,  as  when  we  read  of  those  youthful  dalliances  in  Paradise  ,— 

«  As  beseem'd 
«  Fair  couple  link'd  in  happy  nuptial  league , 
«  Alone  :  » 
n  by  the  inherent  fault  of  stage  representation ,  how  are  these  things  sullied  and  turned  from  their 
«  very  nsture  by  being  exposed  to  a  large  assembly ;  when  sueh  speeches  as  Imogen  addresses  to  her 
•I  lord  come  drawling  out  of  the  mouth  of  a  hired  actress,  whose  courtship,  though  nominally  address- 
«  ed  to  the  personated  Postbumus ,  is  manifestly  aimed  at  the  spectators ,  who  are  to  judge  of  her 
it  returns  of  love. 

ii  The  character  of  Hamlet  is  perhaps  that,  by  which ,  since  the  days  of  Belterton ,  a  succession  of 
•i  popular  performers  have  had  the  greatest  ambition  to  distinguish  themselves.  The  length  of  the 
ii  part  may  be  one  of  their  reasons.  But  for  the  character  itself,  we  find  it  in  a  play,  and  therefore 
it  we  judge  :t  a  fit  subject  of  dramatic  representation.  The  play  itself  abounds  in  maxims  and  reflex- 
tt  ions  beyond  any  other,  and  therefore  we  consider  it  as  a  proper  vehicle  for  conveying  moral  instruc- 
«  tion.  But  Hamlet  himself — what  does  he  suffer  meanwhile  by  being  dragged  forth  as  the  public 
ii  schoolmaster,  to  give  lectures  to  the  crowd!  Why,  nine  parts  in  ten  of  what  Hamlet  does,  are 
«  transactions  between  himself  and  his  moral  sense ,  they  are  the  effusions  of  his  solitary  musings , 
I-  which  he  retires  to  holes  and  corners  and  the  most  sequestered  parts  of  the  palace  to  pour  forth  ; 
it  or  rather,  they  are  the  silent  meditations ,  with  which  his  bosom  is  bursting ,  reduced  to  words  for 
it  the  sake  of  the  reader,  who  must  else  remain  ignorant  of  what  is  passing  there.  These  profound 
*  sorrows ,  these  light-and-noise-abhorring  ruminations ,  which  the  tongue  scarce  dares  utter  to  deaf 


—  27  — 

sentarion ,  what  shall  we  say  to  the  personating  of  some  of  his  characters — not  only  by  a  Master  Belly 
but — by  a  girl  in  her  teens???  Fancy  Ihe  high  indignation — the  classical  disgust — of  a  John  Kemble 
at  such  a  desecration !!!  The  real  province  of  Clara  Fisher  was  just  such  a  role  as  I  myself  saw  her 
fill  in  an  interlude ,  where  the  dry,  hard ,  admirable  Terry  enacted  the  part  of  a  crabbed  old  gouty 
bachelor-nabob  of  an  uncle ,  to  disabuse  whose  aversion  from  a  female  heir  to  his  wealth  she  ( the 
neice)  drives  him  nearly  crazy,  first  as  one  unmanageable  urchin  of  a  nephew  and  then  as  another. 
When  j  completely  sick  of  the  boys ,  he  has  fixed  upon  his  «  dear  Utile  girl  »  in  preference  to  them 
all,  she  avows  the  various  travesties  she  has  practised  on  him.  It  was  really  a  capital  piece.  The 
humped-backed  glutton  ealing  buns  and  the  gout-tied  uncle's  nervous  agony  about  his  choking  was 
a  particularly  droll  scene. 

(39)  — «  And  a  A  fete-day  at  Itome,»  with  its  sure  «  Punchinello ,  » 

In  Naples,  at  least,  «  Mister  Punch  »  is  a  personage  of  great  political  importance,  being  the  mouth- 
piece of  the  current  opinions  of  the  day  on  public  matters.  He  knows  how  to  shake  his  foolscap  in 
England  too ! 

(40)  — «  And  American  Reed ,  with  his  ogle  upon  her, 

«  That's  a-jumping  «  Jem  Crow ,  »  to  a  smirking  «  Madonna ,  » 
This  transatlantic  buffoon  is  said  to  have  realized  6000  L  by  his  nonsense ,  while  men  of  genius  are 
often  left  to  starve  ! 

(41)  —  it  And  «  The  Race,  »  where  the  lover,  no  longer  a  martyr, 

«  7*  as  happy  as  Sam ,  ivhen  he — catches  a  Tartar !  » 
A  Calmuck  courtship  is  on  horseback  ,  the  fair  one  having  «  plenty  of  law  »  If  she  is  caught ,  we 
may  presume  it  to  be  on  purpose,  and  on  the  old-established  principle  of  all  wooings,  where  «  kissing 
«  goes  by  favour.  »  With  respect  to  5am ,  should  the  reader  wish  to  know  who  he  was  or  in  what 
his  peculiar  happiness  consisted ,  I  am  bound  to  confess  my  ulter  ignorance  on  the  point.  Sam 
Russel,  to  be  sure,  was  very  happy  :n  <c  Jerry  Sneak,  h  but  I  don't  suppose,  that  he  was  the  indivi- 
dual in  question.     «  A  happy  Sam  »  is  an  inexplicable  expression  to  me. 

(42) — k  And  «  A  Bedouin  Arab  »  and  «  Gentleman  Jack,  » 
The  only  difference  I  can  discover  between  a  wild  son  of  Ishmael  and  a  modern  highwayman  is , 
that  civilization  has  put  a  stop  to  the  rides  of  the  latter,  while  the  former  continues  as  great  a  nui- 
sance ,  as  great  a  vagabond ,  and  as  great  a  thief  as  ever. 

(43)  —  k  And  k  Dick  Turpin ,  »  thai  gallop'd  from  London  to  York , 

«  And  contriv'd  by  the  feat  his  accusers  to  balk, 

ii  Tho',  in  limbo  ai  last  and  the  sad  prison  garb ,  he 

«  For  his  either  leg  elided  by  winning  the  *  darby,    » 

Memory,  at  all  times  treacherous,  may  well  be  mistrusted  at  the  lapse  of  five-and-thlrty  years,  since 

when  I  have  never  again  met  with  «  The  Newgale  Calendar.  »    So  far  as  my  recollection  serves ,  the 

«  walls  and  chambers ,  how  can  they  be  represented  by  a  gesticulating  actor,  who  comes  and  mouths 
c  them  out  before  an  audience ,  making  four  hundred  people  his  confidants  at  once?  I  say  not,  that  it 
«  is  the  fault  of  the  actor  so  to  do ;  he  must  pronounce  them  ore  rolundo ,  he  must  accompany  them 
«  with  his  eye ,  he  must  insinuate  them  into  his  auditory  by  some  trick  of  eye ,  tone ,  or  gesture  ,  or 
«  he  fails.  He  must  be  thinking  all  the  ichile  of  his  appearance,  because  he  knows,  that  all  the 
a  while  the  spectators  arc  judging  of  it.  And  this  is  the  way  to  represent  the  shy ,  negligent , 
«  retiring  Hamlet !  » 

*  A  pair  of  darbies,  slangici,  is  a  pan1  of  fetters.  Every  body  has  heard  of  the  Derby  ( pronounced 
Darby)  stakes  and  the  Okes. 


—  28  — 

hold  butcher  performed  his  very  extraordinary  feat  on  two  horses ,  having  exchanged  the  one ,  on 
which  he  started  from  London ,  for  another,  taken  out  of  a  field  somewhere  about  half-way  between 
the  two  large  cities.  Arrived  at  York,  he  gave  his  panting  hack  to  a  ostler,  and,  sauntering  to  the 
bowling-green  of  the  Inn ,  just  as  the  Minster  was  chiming  6  in  the  evening ,  carelessly  asked  of  the 
players  what  o'  clock  it  was!  If  Dick  Turpin  did'nt  know,  who  the  devil  did?  He  was  hanged  all 
the  same  though,  but  I  quite  forget  ivhere  or  for  what.  Ainsworth  's  episode  of  him,  in  the  romance 
of  «  Rookwood ,  »  is  a  palpable ,  though  powerful ,  extravagance.  That  even  two  horses  should  have 
done  such  a  distance  on  such  roads  in  such  a  space  of  time  is  sufficiently  wonderful  of  itself. 

(44) — « till,  as  gallows  as  gallows  could  be,  » 

«  So ,  old  mother !  tip  us  a  glass  of  gin , 
«  That  we  may  look  gallows  as  we  go  in.  » 

Slang  Song. 

(45)  —  «  Like  that  jockey ,  King  Charles ,  when  he  ran  for  the  oaks !  » 

— a  jockey  indeed !  In  his  reigning  way,  Newmarket  itself  never  produced  a  bigger.  See  the  respect- 
ive characters  of  him  by  Lingard  ,  Hume  ,  and  Smallet. 

(46)  — « and  Lavaler  on  «  Noses,  «... 

Amid  the  desultory  reading,  to  which  youth  is  so  prone ,  I  wandered  to  Lavater.  A  near  and  dear 
relation,  now  alas!  no  more,  on  opening  his  eyes  one  morning,  was  surprised  to  see  me  intently 
gazing  on  his  face ,  and  was  equally  amused  wdien  I  seriously  said  to  him  :  «  Ah !  H.  my  boy !  if  the 
«  bump  in  your  nose  were  a  little  bigger,  you'd  be  a  clever  fellow  I  » 

(47)  — «  And  «  Botanical  Walks  «  by  the  Doctor  Solander, 
«   Who  look,  by  the  bye,  an  unpleasant  one,  when, 
«   With  his  friend,  Mr  Banks,  and  two  seafaring  men, 
«  Be  was  nabb'b  by  the  cold,  and  could  scarcely  come  to  again.  » 

The  celebrated  Cook,  who  commanded  the  Expedition  to  the  island  of  Otaheile,  in  the  south  seas, 
for  the  astronomical  purpose  of  observing  the  Transit  of  Venus,  June  o(1,  1769,  was  accompanied  by 
the  scientific  Mr  (afterwards  Sir  Joseph)  Banks  and  Dr  Solander,  the  naturalist,  and  favorite  pupil  of 
his  great  countryman ,  Linnanis.  On  the  occasion ,  alluded  to  above ,  two  poor  blacks  were  frozen  to 
death  ,  and  the  Doctor  had  a  most  narrow  escape  of  it.  The  account ,  though  extremely  interesting , 
is  too  long  to  quote. 

(48)  —  «  And  «  The  dove  of  Medina,  » — a  true  Caravan-tale !  » 

The  learned  Grotius,  in  his  work  upon  the  truths  of  Christianity,  tells  us,  that  the  familiar  spirit  of 
Mahomet  was  a  dove ,  which  would  perch  upon  his  shoulder  and  apparently  whisper  its  divine  revela- 
tions in  his  ear.  Washington  Irving,  however,  maintains,  that  it  was  his  fanatic  disciples  and  not  he, 
that  set  such  absurdities  afloat.     Grotius  unrolls  a  precious  list  of  them ! 

(49)  —  <c  And  a  «  Memoir  of  Slulls,  »  the  baronial  tailor,  » 

This  celebrated  «  builder, »  after  twenty  years  of  Metropolitan  and  University  vogue,  is  said  to  have 
retired  to  his  native  land  ,  and  there  have  purchased  a  barony  of  the  highest  caste. 

(50)  — «  And  a  melhodisl's  «  Slap  in  the  face  for  the  Devil,  » 

The  titles  of  certain  methodistical  tracts  are  vulgar  even  to  indecorum Being  on  the  subject  of 

Low-Church,  I  may  mention  here,  that  as  characteristic  a  thing,  as  is  told  of  the  well-known  Rowland 
Hill,  occurred  a  short  time  before  he  died.  His  chapel,  one  sweltering  Sunday  afternoon,  was,  as 
usual ,  crowded  to  excess.    In  the  middle  of  the  sermon ,  there  was  such  a  stir  in  the  Gallery,  that 


—  29  — 

Jiis  reverence  cried  out  at  last :  «  What's  the  mailer  there?  it  seems  as  though  the  Devil  were  among 
ye'.»  "floa,  Sir,  »  replied  a  countryman,  «  it  bean' I  the  Devil,  but  a  werry  fat  lady  wot's  fainted 
«  and  warn't  come  to  again.  »  Oh !  rejoined  the  eccentric  preacher,  «  if  that's  the  case ,  I  beg  the 
11  lady's  pardon — and  the  Devil's  loo!  » 

(51)  —  « and  the  «  Sermons  of  Latimer,  » 

«  Who  averr'd,  (to  the  bench  what  was  pleasant  as  hyssop,) 
a  That  Old  Nick  of  them  all  was  by  far  the  bcsl  bishop!  » 

n  And  now  I  would  ask  a  strange  question ;  who  is  the  most  diligent  bishop  and  prelate  in  all  Eng- 
ii  land,  and  passeth  all  the  rest  in  doing  his  office  ?  I  can  tell ,  for  I  know  him  who  he  is ;  I  know  him 
«  well :  but  now  methinks  I  see  you  listening  and  hearkening  that  I  should  name  him.  There  is  one 
«  that  passeth  all  the  other,  and  is  the  most  diligent  prelate  and  preacher  in  all  England.  And  will  ye 
«  know  who  it  is?  I  will  tell  you  :  it  is  the  devil.  He  is  the  most  diligent  preacher  of  all  other;  he 
a  is  never  out  of  his  diocess;  he  is  never  from  his  cure;  ye  shall  never  find  him  unoccupied;  he  is 
«  ever  in  his  parish ;  he  keepeth  residence  at  all  times ;  ye  shall  never  find  hint  out  of  the  way,  call 
it  for  him  when  ye  will ;  he  is  ever  at  home ,  the  most  diligent  preacher  in  all  the  realm.  He  is  ever 
ii  at  his  plough ;  no  lording  nor  loitering  may  hinder  him ;  he  is  ever  applying  to  his  business ;  ye 
•I  shall  never  find  him  idle ,  I  warrant  you.  » 

(52) —  «  And  «  The  Woeful  Conversion!)  (of  pasture  to  arable) 
«  By  a  bard  of  the  place,  ivhose  congenial  pity 
«  Turn'd  the  debts  of  a  duke  into  food  for  a  ditty ! » 

One  of  the  finest  parks  in  the  kingdom  ( whose  sylvan  beauties  have  been  very  nicely  sung  by  a 
poet  named  Luttrel)  was  cruelly  trenched  upon  by  the  plough,  in  IS — ,  being  let  off  in  farms,  to 
liquidate  the  incumbrances  of  the  deceased  duke.  The  timber  felled  on  the  occasion  would ,  in  my- 
thologic  times ,  have  provoked  a  remonstrance  from  the  Dryads ,  the  Satyrs ,  aud  the  Fauns. 

(55)  —  ii  And  that  wonderful  work  on  the  wonderful  Thebes,  » 

ii  Sir  G.  Wilkinson  »  (says  Miss  Harriett  Martineau  in  the  preface  to  her  «  Eastern  Life,  past  and 
«  present,  »)  must  be  almost  tired  of  the  testimonies  and  thanks  of  gratelul  travellers,  but  I  must 
«  say,  that  he  was ,  by  his  books ,  a  daily  benefactor  to  us  in  Egypt.  It  is  really  cheering  to  find , 
ii  that  any  one  can  be  so  accurate ,  and  on  so  large  a  scale ,  as  his  works  prove  him  to  he.  Such 
«  almost  faultless  correctness  requires  an  union  of  intellectual  and  moral  powers  and  training ,  which 
ii  it  is  encouraging  for  those ,  who  are  interested  in  the  result  of  travel ,  to  contemplate.  After 
ii  making  the  fullest  use  of  his  «  Modern  Egypt  and  Thebes,  »  we  find  only  about  half  a  dozen  points, 
ii  in  which  we  differ  from  him.  » 

(54)  —  «  And  a  i<  Wonderful  Cure  »  ( not  a  matter  for  scorning ) 
ii  By  a  crust  of  bread  taken  betimes  in  the  morning !  » 
Does  the  reader  recollect  a  popular  pamphlet  on  the  marvellous  digestive  virtues  of  a  crust  of  bread , 
if  elaborately  chewed  and  taken  early  in  the  morning  ? — a  specific ,  which ,  like  the  seed  of  white 
mustard ,  can ,  at  any  rate ,  do  no  harm.  Cut  here  opens  upon  us  the  wide  question  of  English 
quackery.  According  to  surgical  dictum ,  the  English ,  as  a  people  of  thews  and  sinews  and  general 
physical  power,  rank  almost  number  I,  and  yet  what  everlasting  calomcl-and-black-dose-ing,  blue-pill- 
and-castor-oil-ing ,  salts-and-senna ,  rhubard-and-magnesia ,  seidlil;  powders,  domestic  medicines, 
patent  medicines,  etc.  etc.  etc.  do  we  not  hear  of!   *  For  every  little  head-ache,  for  every  little 

*  ii  You  English,"  said  Monsieur  Valettez,  (a  gallico-italian  Professor  at  Paris,  in  1825,)  to 
seven  of  us,  (hispensionnaires,)  «You  English  do  all  you  canto  kill  yourselves  with  your  confounded 


—  30  — 

nausea,  for  every  little  this  or  that,  immediate  recourse  is  hail  to  a  mischievous,  debilitating;  effe- 
minate something  or  other!  If  our  grandfathers  never  heard  of  « nerties-, »  Plato,  in  lis  Republic, 
wants  to  know  what  is  meant  by  «  the  novel  terms  of  colds  and  catarrhs!!!  »  What  would  the  phi- 
losopher say  now???    To  what  is  this  degeneracy  due?  to  doctors  and  doctoring. 

n  At  thirty  years  man  thinks  himself  a  fool , 
«  Knows  it  at  forty  and  resolves  to  mend.  » 
I  myself,  albeit  alas!  two  lustra  behindhand  in  other  respects,  arrived,  at  least,  at  that  knowledge 
at  that  age,  and  ceased  (as  the  French  say)  «  to  me  perdre  l'eslomac»  with  drugs  and  pharmacies, 
laying  to  heart,  instead  of  the  formulae  of  Buchan  and  of  Graham  ,  the  wise  witticism  of  Moliere  : 

«  De  qnoi ,  done ,  est-il  mort  ?  » it  De  deux  medecins  et  un  apothicaire.  » 

«  But  what  did  he  die  of  ?  a     .     .     .     .     .     .     «  Two  surgeons  and  an  apothecary,  u 

Away,  then,  with  your  fanciful  complaints,  my  dear  compatriot!  away,  then,  with  your  fanciful 
complaints!  «  throw  physic  to  the  dogs!  »  (they  won't  take  it ,  by  the  bye,)  and  be  assured  by  one, 
who  wishes  you  well,  that  the  doctors,  which  Nature  intended  for  mankind,  are  Doctor  Temper- 
ance and  Doctor  Twolegs ! 

(55) — «  And,  when  Charon  across  the  sad  river  shall  ferry  ye, 
«  There's  a  capital  coffin  all  ready  to  bury  ye!  » 
«  Mr  Levy,  »  said  one  of  two  military  officers ,  who  sauntered  into  his  warehouse  together,  «  my 
«  friend  here  and  I  have  a  small  bet,  he  having  laid,  that  you  have  not  a  coffin  for  sale,  I,  that 
«  you  have.  Which  of  us  is  right  ?  » — « If  the  gentleman  will  step  this  ivay,  »  replied  Levy,  in  his 
own  quiet  manner,  «J  can  show  him  one,  which  will  fit  him  exactly.  »  I  myself  saw  three  of 
those  enlivening  objects  all  in  a  row!!! 

«  medicine.  I  will  lay  an  even  bet ,  that  each  of  you  young  men ,  at  this  moment ,  has  a  box  of 
«  pills.  »  And  so  it  proved ,  and  none  of  us  the  same ,  the  first  having  the  pills  of  Dr  Baillie ;  the 
second ,  the  pills  of  Sir  Henry  Halford ;  the  third ,  the  pills  of  Dr  Paris ;  the  fourth ,  the  Abernethy 
pills ;  the  fifth,  the  anti-bilious  pills;  the  sixth,  the  anti-dyspeptic  pills;  and  the  seventh  (a  Melton- 
Mowbray  man ! )  the  pills  of  all  pills ,  the  Immortal  Cockles !  At  every  fresh  confession ,  there  was 
another  roar  of  laughter;  and  Madame  Valettez  (a  healthy  little  woman,  who  avoided  even  tisan, ) 
sat ,  with  uplifted  eyes ,  ejaculating  to  the  ceiling  :  «  Ah  I  mon  Dieu !  est-il  possible  ?  quelle  drole  de 
«  manie!  quelle  drole  dejeunesse!  » 


9 


DINAJN. — rr.l^TED   BY   J.-B.    HUAKT. —  1S51. 


A    TRANSLATED    COMPILATION. 


--oo- 


By 


STEPHEN    PRENTSS,    A.  M, 

Author  of 

TINTERN;   STONEHENGE;   THE  WRECK  OF  THE   ROSCOMMON;   THE  ROCKS  OF  PENMARC'H  ; 
LE   GRAND-BEY,    OR  THE  TOMB  OF   CHATEAUBRIAND;    SPECIMENS   OF  TRANSLATION 
FROM  THE  FRENCH;   SKETCH   OF   LEVY'S  WAREHOUSE;    etc.,  etc. 


■J&?>- 


J.-B.     HU1R1, 


1881. 


PREFACE. 


Setting  down  as  nothing  the  biographic  mention  of  de  Lisle , 
there  has  been ,  in  the  following  pages ,  no  attempt  at  original 
composition.  Perhaps  there  was  no  need  of  it,  things  speaking 
for  themselves.  It  is  better  thus.  The  translator  of  the  «  Mas- 
«  sacre  de  Septembre7  »  1792,  has  not  forgotten  (who  has?)  the 
u  Insurrection  de  Jui?i,  »  1848.  Either  event  was  a  question  of 
humanity, — of  all-concerning  humanity, — cruelly  derided,  sa- 
vagely insulted,  truculently  wronged;  and  the  human  bile  will 
rise.  May  the  native  reader  of  Lamartine's  powerful  description 
of  the  former  (whereof  but  a  few  paragraphs  are  here  given) 
lay  them  both  to  heart!  They  are  pregnant  with  thought,  es- 
pecially the  last ;  and  these  are  times  to  think.  The  present  crisis 
is  of  mighty  moment,  involving,  as  it  does,  a  mighty  principle, 
together  with  the  happiness  ,  prosperity,  and  peace — not  of 
France  alone ,  but  what  is  ever  dependant  upon  her's ,  —  of  the 
Continent,  nay,  of  Europe  at  large.  The  compiler  says  no  more, 
excepting  (to  descend  to  himself)  that,  in  this  little  book,  which 
contains ,  inter  alia ,  the  «  Execution  de  Louis  XFI »  and  the 
«  Supplice  des  Girondins,  »  he,  of  course,  has  been  careful 
to  adduce  some  indemnifying  matter,  and  has  therefore 
quoted  such  passages  of  the  battles  of  Valmy  and  Jemmappes, 
as  display  «  La  Marseillaise  »  in  its  best ,  appropriate ,  author- 
intended  light,  viz,  as  a  war-song  for  the  defenders  of  their 
country,  and  not  as  a  song  of  triumph  over  a  decapitated  king, 
nor  as  the  death-song  of  a  Vergniaud  on  the  scaffold-floor.  As 
to  the  worst  phases  of  it,  with  Lamartine  in  his  hand,  he 
shuddered  as  he  read;  and  writing,  for  his  English  version,  of 
those  crimson  days, — those  crimson  nights, — of  the  Abbaye, 


the  Conciergerie,  and  the  Carmes, — of  those  horrid  heaps  of 
human  carcases, —  of  those  jaded  butchers  in  the  human  sham- 
bles,— of  that  fearful  cloven  corpse  and  the  draught  of  human 
blood,  —  of  that  hellish  torture  of  «  La  Belle  Boucjuetiere ,  » 
and  her  cries  beyond  the  Seine , — of  those  petticoated  demons 
with  their  burning  pikes,  —  of  those  impy  children  and  the 
«  Carmagnole ,  » — writing  of  all  them,  1  say,  the  very  quill 
seemed  conscious  of  its  work,  and  faltered  like  the  hand  that 
held  it.  And  such ,  then  ,  is  «  La  Marseillaise  !  » — a  thing  of 
proud  and  humbling  recollections ,  of  bright  and  blushing  remi- 
niscences,— decus  et  tutamen  ,  dedecus  et  damnum, — a  glory 
and  disgrace  ! — a  call  to  keep  awake  the  liberties  of  France, 
and  yet,  again,  at  Saturnalia  like  those, — evoking  anarchy, 
evoking  murder, — her  pest  and  her  *  enslaver,  her  sorrow 
and  her  shame  ! 

*  Buonaparte,  '  the  child  of  the  Revolution ,'  wherein  «  La  Marseillaise,  »  for  good 
and  ill,  played  so  conspicuous  a  role,  retarded  (says  the  historian  of  the  Girondins)  the 
march  of  freedom  and  civilization  an  entire  century.  His  sceptre  was  indeed  an  iron 
one!  At  certain  seasons,  words  are  things.  «  La  Marseillaise, »  at  all  events,  as 
yelled  upon  the  Place  de  Greve,  assisted,  in  its  way,  to  hring  about  a  military  despotism. 
Yes,  in  their  degree,  those  hymners  of  the  ax — those  patriotic  gloaters  upon  blood- 
induced  the  tyranny  that  followed,  though  nothing  like  the  tyranny  they  saw,  nor  such 
as  their  consummate  crimes  deserved,  t  Many  of  them,  to  be  sure, — the  victims  of  the 
guillotine  or  of  violence  in  other  shapes, — were  added  to  the  human  hecatombs  , — the 
righteous  retribution  of  that  avenging  God,  Whom,  in  the  name  of  Reason  ,  and  yet 

in  the  very  face  of  it,  they  had  dared,  denied,  and  most  iniquitously  mocked! 

«  Coming  events  cast  their  shadows  before.  »  Madame  de  Stael  was  right.  «  La 
«  Revolution  s'est  faite  homme  :  »  she  said  it  would  be  so.  The  lists  of  Marius  and 
of  Sylla  led  to  the  ascendancy  of  Cssar  :  the  lists  of  Danton  and  of  Robespierre 
led  to  the  ascendancy  of  Buonaparte.  The  imperial  power  was  the  consequence  of 
a  consequence,  —  the  next  great  link  in  the  chain  of  servitude,  which  was  gilded 
by  Victory  I  grant...  With  respect  to  1848,  Paris,  Lyons,  Arras,  Limoges,  Saint- 
Ktienne,  etc. ,  after  the  days  of  June,  were  put  into  a  state  of  seige, — a  form  of  slavery 
at  least.  A  little  more,  and  to  what  would  France  have  not  been  brought  (for  a 
time,  at  any  rate,)  by  the  hackers  of  the  faubourgs,— those  Hurons  of  «La  Mar- 
it  seillaise  ? » 

-J-  Sea  the  Appendix. 


TALiM©   ©W  Y$l&mLArmM§  b    etc. 
— o — - 

<(M.  jourdain. — Parma  foi,  il  y  a  plusde  quarante  ans  que  je  dis  de  la  prose  sans  que  j'en  susse  rien;  et 
je  vous  suis  le  plus  oblige  du  monde  de  m'avoir  appris  cela.  Je  voudrais  done  lui  mettre  dans  un  billet : 
Belle  marquise,  vos  beaux  ycux  me  font  mourir  d'amour;  mais  je  voudrais  que  cela  fut  mis  d'une 
maniere  galante ,  que  cela  fut  tourne  gentiment. 

le  maItre  de  philosophie. —  Mettez  que  les  feux  de  ses  yeux  reduisent  votre  cosur  en  cendres;  que 
vous  souffrez  nuit  et  jour  pour  elle  les  violences  d'un 

M.  jourdain.  — Non ,  non ,  non ;  je  ne  veux  point  tout  cela.     Je  ne  veux  que  ce  que  je  vous  ai  dit  : 

Belle  marquise,  vos  beaux  yeux  me  font  mourir  d'amour. 

le  maitre  de  philosophie.  —  II  faut  bieu  etendre  un  pcu  la  chose. 

m.  jourdain. —  Non,  vous  dis-je;  je  ne  veux  que  ces  seules  paroles-la  daus  le  billet,  mais  tournees 
a  la  mode ,  bien  arrangees  comme  il  faut.  Je  vous  prie  de  me  dire  un  peu ,  pour  voir,  les  diverses 
manieres  dont  on  les  peut  mettre. 

le  maItre  de  philosophie. — On  peut  les  mettre  premierement  comme  vous  avez  dit  : 

Belle  marquise ,  vos  beaux  yeux  me  font  mourir  d'amour. 

Ou  bien  :  D'amour  mourir  me  font ,  belle  marquise ,  vos  beaux  yeux. 

Ou  bien  :  Vos  yeux  beaux  d'amour  me  font,  belle  marquise ,  mourir. 

Ou  bien  :  Mourir  vos  beaux  yeux,  belle  marquise,  d'amour  me  font. 

Ou  bien  :  Me  font  vos  yeux  beaux  mourir,  belle  marquise,  d'amour. 

m.  jourdain.  —  Mais  de  toutes  ces  fagons-la  laquelle  est  la  meilleure  ? 

le  maitre  he  philosophie. — Celle  que  vous  avez  dite  :  Belle  marquise,  vos  beaux  yeux  me  font 
mourir  d'amour.  » 

»  Le  Bourqeois  Genlilhomme  »  of  Moliere. 

And  my  own  opinion,  in  the  present  little  work,  was  precisely  similar.  The  exigencies  of  a  different 
tongue  and  of  a  different  ideoni  being  met ,  I ,  in  my  subordinate  capacity,  conceived  myself  at  liberty 
to  alter  nothing  else.  As  far  as  it  was  feasible ,  the  construction  of  the  French  (no  matter  whose)  has 
been  carefully  retained.  The  demands  of  rhythm  will  be  uuderstood  of  course  :  nobody — writer  or  not — 
can  hesitate  to  grant,  that  the  calls  of  euphony,  in  the  rendering  of  be  it  what  it  may,  must  lead,  nl 
times,  to  verbal  inlidelities  at  least.  A  collocation  of  words,  which  is  music  in  one  language,  would, 
if  exactly  copied,  be  discord  in  another;  hence  the  almost  impossibility,  on  the  part  of  a  translator,  of 
being ,  at  once ,  harmonious  and  correct.  Here  ,  as  elsewhere  ,  I  have  done  my  best ,  and  here  ,  as 
elsewhere ,  I  am  sorry  that  my  best  should  be  no  better.  In  spite  of  the  pains ,  bestowed  upon  my 
task  ,  and  especially  on  the  style  of  the  eloquent  Lamartine  ,  there  are  passages  of  mine ,  1  am  well  aware , 
that  would  never  have  passed  muster  with  Quintilian.  The  historian  of  the  Girondins,  in  his  brilliant 
book,  is  thoroughly  possessed  with  the  spirit  of  the  god,  yet  as  thoroughly  commands  all  the  requisites 
of  prose , — the  achievement  of  a  gifted  few,  and  of  easy  imitation  by  none. 

As  to  misreadings,  thanks  to  the  matter  and  the  manner  of  the  text,  there  was  really  but  very  little 
room  for  them.  I  seize  the  opportunity,  however,  of  confessing  to  a  probable  mistake  in  my  construe 
of  «  les  enfans  perdus  de  Paris,  »  (hataille  de  jemmappes  ,  page  18)  which  I,  though  not  without  a 
pause ,  have  interpreted  ( wrongly,  I  fear, )  «  the  friendless  children  of  the  streets.  »  The  phrase  in 
question  is  open  to  a  treble  meaning,  since  «per>dus»  signifies,  as  may  happen ,  «abandoncd,»  «spoilt,»  or 
"  ruined.  »  With  the  sentence  for  his  guide,  the  reader  may  choose  between  the  three.  My  render  of 
il  ,  I  suspect ,  is  faulty  altogether. 

Touching  the  so-called  errata,  they  are,  to  the  best  of  my  belief,  confined  to  « vanquished »  instead 
of  «  vanquished ,  »  (page  15)  «  composed"  instead  of  «  compassed,  »  (page  55)  «  reliques  »  instead  of 
«  relics »  (page  59)  with  here  and  there  an  undiscovered  oversight,  to  which  a  regular  corrector  of  the 
press  (and  I  have  had  the  benefit  of  none)  would,  perhaps,  have  been  as  liable  as  I. 

With  respect  to  La  Marseillaise  again  ,  should  it  be  permissible  to  speak  of  it  in  a  jocular  tone  ,  I 
would  just  observe  in  conclusion ,  that ,  owing  to  whatever  tradition ,  an  idea  has  got  abroad ,  that  Rouget 
de  Lisle  composed  it  when  under  the  inlluence  of  wine.  If  such  were  indeed  the  case,  we  are  led  to 
recollect  an  entry  in  Ben  Jonson's  diary  :  «  Thursday  16. Ul  Supped  at  The  Mermaid  with  Will  Shakespeare. 
<;  Drank  four  bottles  of  Port.     Noble  thoughts.    Mem.— Drink  no  more  water  as  long  as  I  live! » 


s&a&s  aaa  sa&aa&ass,, 


Notice  deRouget  de  Lisle  (en  anglais) I 

La  Marseillaise 4? 

Extraits  des  Feuilletons  du  Steele,  par  Felix  Deriege W 

Extraits  de  l'histoire  des  girondins,  par  A.  de  Laraartine. 

1.  Marche  des  Marseillais  et  leur  entree  en  Paris 16 

2.  Rouget  de  Lisle  et  composition  de  la  Marseillaise 18 

3.  La  Chapelle  des  Tuileries 20 

4.  Massacre  des  Gardes  Suisses 22 

5.  Massacre  de  Septembre 24 

6.  Bataille  de  Valmy 34 

7.  Louis  XVI  apres  son  interrogatoire 36 

8.  Execution  du  Roi 38 

9.  Enrolement  et  marche  des  volontaires 44 

10.  Bataille  de  Jemmappes 48 

11.  Souper  funebre  et  supplice  des  Girondins 54 

APPENDICE. 

Les  assassins  de  Septembre 06 

Theroigne  de  Mericourt 68 

La  Carmagnole , ■    ....  72 

Notice  militaire  de  la  Marseillaise 76' 

Notice  des  peines  infamantes. 76 


it! 


I?£132i3    OS    S©S}SSSSfi?Sa 


Notice  of  Rouget  de  Lisle 1 

La.  Marseillaise 5 

Extracts  from  the  Feuilletons  of  le  Steele ,  by  Felix  Deriege 11 

Extracts  from  the  history  of  the  girondins,  by  A,  de  Lamartine. 

1 .  March  of  the  Marseillais  and  their  entry  into  Paris :     ...  17 

2.  Rouget  de  Lisle  and  composition  of  la  Marseillaise 19 

3.  The  Chapel  of  the  Tuilleries 21 

4.  Massacre  of  the  Swiss  Guard 23 

5.  Massacre  of  September 25 

6.  Battle  of  Valmy , 35 

7.  Louis  XVI  after  his  examination 37 

8.  Execution  of  the  King 39 

9.  Enrolment  and  march  of  the  volunteers 45 

10.  Battle  of  Jemmappes 49 

11.  Funeral  supper  and  execution  of  the  Girondins.  .........    .  55 

APPENDIX. 

The  assassins  of  September  ..................  67 

Theroigne  de  Mericourt 69 

La  Carmagnole t  73 

Military  notice  of  la  Marseillaise 77 

Notice  of  the  p«im$  infamantes. 77 


Rouget  de  Lisle,  the  author  of  the  most  effective  song  in  the  world,  but  with 
nothing  before  and  very  little  after  to  requite  the  researches  of  biography ,  was ,  it 
appears,  born  at  Lons-le-Saunier,  in  the  Jura,  on  the  10lh  of  May,  1760.  Up  to 
the  winter  or  early  spring  ( no  matter  which )  of  1792 ,  when  we  find  him  a  captain 
of  artillery  at  Strasbourg,  his  history  is  a  blank.  Whatever  degree  of  notice  his 
graceful  talents  may  thitherto  have  gained  him  was  clearly  of  a  passing  nature,  and 
confined ,  we  may  fairly  infer,  to  the  circle  of  his  friends.  His  polished  manners , 
as  a  Frenchman  of  birth,  his  turn  for  poetry,  and  a  decided  taste  for  music  (three 
drawing-room  recommendations)  must,  in  any  provincial  town,  have  made  him  a 
pleasing  companion  and  a  welcome  guest.  And  such  he  was  to  the  family  of 
Monsieur  Dietrich,  a  gentleman  of  Alsace,  and,  at  that  time,  Mayor  of  Strasbourg. 
France,  throughout  in  a  state  of  fermentation  from  foreign  and  domestic  causes, 
was  particularly  so  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Rhine,  on  the  opposite  sides  of  which 
river  the  opposing  armies  were  ready, — the  one  to  invade,  the  other  to  repel.  The 
troops  of  the  latter,  full  of  enthusiasm,  required  an  appropriate  air — a  march — to 
crown  their  zeal ,  and  lead  them  on  to  victory.  A  hymn  was  at  hand , — a  martial 
inspiration ,  which ,  going  forth  from  a  narrow  chamber  in  Strasbourg  to  all  the 
provinces  of  France,  was  destined  to  stir  the  soul  more  strongly  than  a  thousand 
trumpets ;  to  be  the  very  watch-word  of  liberty ;  to  sound ,  like  the  voice  of  doom 
itself,  in  the  ears  of  conscious  kings,  seated  on  whatever  thrones  of  Europe,  who, 
like  Relshazzar,  might  be  'weighed  in  the  balance  and  found  wanting;'  to  magnify 
the  grand  and  elevate  the  sublime,  as  when  (a  solemn  and  affecting  proof! )  Vergniaud 
and  his  twenty  brother-Girondins  sang  it  on  the  floor  of  death;  *  and  yet,  by  a 
strange ,  unlooked-for ,  and  terrible  perversion  of  its  real  purpose  ,  —  more  wide , 
more  sweeping  far  than  in  even  their  case, — to  become  the  signal  for  wholesale 
civil  murder  on  the  waters  of  the  Loire ,  the  marsh  of  Lyons ,  and  the  stage  of 
rival  guillotines ;  and  so  again ,  in  our  own  astounded  day ,  when  all  alas !  that 
was  incredible  in  crime,  was  done  by  all,  that  was  incredible  in  man.  No  wonder, 
with  such  ingredieuts  of  fame ,  that  La  Marseillaise  should  be  a  thing  apart !  The 
best  accounts  of  the  artistic  heat,  in  which  it  was  stricken  off,  are  furnished  by 
Lamartine,  in  Book  XVI  of  his  «  Histoire  des  Girondins, »  1847,  and  by  Felix  Deriege , 

"  Rouget  de  Lisle,  a  kind-hearted  man  and  who  lived  to  be  an  old  one,  must,  among  the  other 
mistakes  of  his  life  ,  have  bitterly  regretted  the  sanguinary  burthen  of  his  song ,  which  ,  however 
figuratively  meant ,  was  only  too  sure  to  be  literally  taken ,  and  remembered  on  the  field  of  battle. 
The  impending  horrors  in  France  he  could  not  possibly  foresee  at  the  time  of  the  writing  of  his  lines. 
With  respect  to  the  choice  of  such  expressions,  though  of  the  prophet  Isaiah's  awful  chapter  of  denun- 
ciations, where  similar  ones  occur,  we  can,  of  course,  have  nothing  to  remark,  we  may,  perhaps,  be 
permitted  to  observe  of  the  psalmist  David ,  that ,  had  he  lived  uuder  the  Christian  instead  of  under 
the  Mosaic  dispensation ,  he  would  hardly  have  written  thus  :  «  Blessed  shall  he  be ,  that  taketh  thy 
«  children ,  and  dasheth  them  against  the  stones.  » 


in  the  jeuilleton  of  *  Le  Siecle,  May,  1848.  Though  the  details  differ,  the  substance 
of  them  is  the  same.  Leaving,  then,  the  former  to  be  settled  by  the  curious  in 
such  matters,  enough  for  the  general  reader  to  be  informed,  that  the  young  officer, 
wound  up  to  a  pitch  of  wrathful  patriotism  by  what  he  had  seen  and  by  what  he 
had  heard ,  betook  himself  from  the  social  table  of  Monsieur  Dietrich  to  his  lonely 
room ;  that  there ,  with  his  appliances  of  art  about  him ,  and  for  once  a  rhapsodist 
indeed,  the  storm  within  his  breast  broke  out  in  flashes  of  indignant  fire;  and  that 
his  solitary  work  of  genius  was  done  in  a  single  night.  «  Le  Chant  de  V Annie  du 
nRhinn — «  The  Song  of  the  Army  of  the  Rhine » — (for  such  was  its  title  until  the 
famous  entry  of  «  Les  FeJeres  de  Marseille))  into  Paris,  July,  1792,)  was  publickly 
performed  on  the  ensuing  day.  uAllons,  enfans  de  la  Patrie !  » — The  appeal  was 
electric ,  and ,  like  the  lightning  to  its  goal ,  went,  in  a  moment,  to  the  heart.  «  Aux 
narmes,  Citoyensh) — The  barrack,  the  parade,  the  theatre,  the  parlour,  the  workshop 
and  the  street ,  all  of  them  resounded  with  the  common  call ,  and  a  Formes  vos 
«  bataillons  »  was  in  the  mouth  of  every  boy.  Fame  and  the  local  press  and  the 
printed  copies  spread  it  to  beyond  the  gates;  and,  as  quick  as  thought,  the  high- 
way and  the  lane ,  the  meadow  and  the  field ,  the  cottage  and  the  crib ,  were  as  vocal 
as  the  rest,  f  «Oh!  Ciqrid !  prince  of  Gods  and  men!)) — War  for  Love,  Strasbourg  for 
Abdera,  and  Euripides  and  Song  were  come  again! — The  success  of  it,  immediate 
and  immense, —  stupendous  in  fact,— was,  especially  in  a  season  of  such  high  excite- 
ment ,  sufficient  to  turn  the  author's  head ,  and  seemingly  it  did.  Be  that  as  it  may, 
owing  to  his  sad  mismanagement ,  the  triumph  of  an  hour  was  the  defeat  of  a  life. 
He  was  ruined  by  the  popularity,  which,  with  common  prudence  and  common  tact, 
would  have  been  the  making  of  him.  Nay,  independent  of  his  vogue  and  the  essential 
service,  which  he  had  just  rendered  to  his  country  by  the  extra  impulse,  imparted  to 
its  spirit,  a  captain  in  the  army,  at  the  active  age  of  two  and  thirty,  had  every  thing  to 
expect  in  the  way  of  advancement ,  when  war  was  a  necessity  of  position ,  and  fighting 
was  the  order  of  the  day.  Let  him  but  escape  the  bullet  and  the  cannon-ball ,  and  hu 
career  was  a  brilliant  one  and  sure. 

«  There  is  a  tide  in  the  affairs  of  men , 

<(  Which ,  taken  at  the  flood ,  leads  on  to  fortune ; 

u  Omitted ,  all  the  voyage  of  their  life 

«  Is  bound  in  shallows  and  in  miseries. 

«  On  such  a  full  tide  is  he  now  afloat , 

«  And  he  must  take  the  current  when  it  serves, 

«  Or  lose  his  venture.  » 

Poor  de  Lisle !  by  a  series  of  blunders ,  his  venture  was  lost  beyond  recovery.     The 

"  To  the  latter  source  ( supplied  me  by  my  worthy  friend ,  Dr  Guillard ,  of  Dinan , )  I  am  mainly 
indebted  for  the  knowledge  of  what  I  have  here  so  briefly  and  so  loosely  thrown  together.  There  are 
no  less  than  thirteen  feuilletons  about  Rouget  de  Lisle ,  on  whose  lack  of  worldly  wisdom ,  though 
they  speak  to  his  warmth  of  heart  and  sincerity  of  purpose,  they  bear  much  harder  (giving  his  letters) 
than  I  have  either  done  or  had  the  wish  to  do.  We  have  all  our  foibles,  our  errors,  and  our  faults, 
and  he,  poor  man !  paid  dearly  for  all  of  his. 


—  3  — 

presumption ,  caused  by  celebrity ,  for  his  «  primum  mobile  »  of  mischief,  his  srailiug 
future  was  blighted  in  the  bud.  An  early  injudicious  vote  against  the  powers  that 
were ,  and  a  still  more  inconsiderate  request ,  that  he  ( the  author  of  the  Marseillaise ! ) 
might  conduct  the  fatherless  young  daughter  of  Louis  XVI  to  Bale ,  and  there  effect 
her  exchange  against  certain  deputies,  whom  the  defection  of  Dumouriez  had  sacrificed 
to  the  Austrians,  incurred  upon  him,  in  the  one  instance,  a  harsh  imprisonment, 
which ,  but  for  Tallien  ,  would  have  ended  in  decapitation ,  and ,  in  the  other, 
raised  a  barrier  to  his  promotion ,  which ,  owing  to  his  own  fault  again ,  was  never 
removed.  Then  we  have  a  tissue  of  correspondence,  on  his  part  frequently  verbose 
and  always  impolitic,  1°  about  his  commission,  which,  twice  thrown  up  and  more 
than  twice  begged  back  again ,  he  ended  by  losing  too  effectually  for  even  Hoche 
to  be  of  service  to  him ;  2°  about  the  seizure  of  a  Danish  vessel  by  a  piratical 
cruizer  of  Bordeaux ,  for  which  no  redress  was  ever  obtained ;  and  3°  about  the. 
claims  of  the  unpopular  Dutch ,  to  which  the  hero  of  Lodi  would  not  listen 
with  decent  patience  ,  —  a  correspondence ,  that  bootlessly  embroiled  him  with 
the  Directory,  with  Carnot,  and  with  *  Buonaparte,  wrho ,  like  Tallien,  as  they 
doubtlessly  alledged ,  had  no  option  but  to  « throw  him  overboard. »  <c  11  avait 
« le  tort  de  trop  parler  et  de  trap  e'crire ,  »  as  Chateaubriand  well  observes  of  our 
uncanny  Charles  the  first,  v.  He  talked  too  much,  and  wrote  too  much;»  while, 
in  his  small  diplomatic  way,  his  system  was  the  very  reverse  of  what  Talleyrand 
so  shrewdly  impressed  upon  his  agents  :  v.Surtout,  point  de  zele,»  —  above  all 
«  things,  avoid  zeal.  »  Shut  out  from  his  profession,  and  reduced  to  his  own  re- 
sources as  poet  and  composer,  he  became,  in  his  advanced  age,  so  straitened  in 
his  means,  that  the  pension  of  1200  francs  or  48  L  per  annum,  granted  him  by 
Louis-Philippe ,  was  only  sufficient  for  his  comfort  until  1836,  when  he  died  at 
Choisy-le-Boi ,  near  Paris, — as  for  many  years  he  had  lived,  t  unnoticed  and  unknown. 
And  thus  ends  the  mournful  history  of  Bouget  de  Lisle ,  a  striking  example ,  ex 
opposilo,  of  how  wise  it  is  in  them,  that  commerce  with  the  great,  to  bear  in  mind 
certain  pithy  proverbs,  and  another  proof,  that,  if,  in  the  real  sense  of  the  term, 
few  of  us  are  poets,  fewer  still  are  poets  with  impunity.  Before,  however,  we  close 
this  rapid  and  imperfect  sketch,  let  us  do  justice  to  his  memory  as  a  man,  and  let 
the  upright  nature  and  generous  disposition ,  which ,  as  we  have  seen ,  respectively 
led  him ,  at  his  imminent  personal  risk  and  great  worldly  disadvantage  ,  to  vote 
according  to  his  conscience ,  and  favour  the  cause  of  the  oppressed  ,  atone  for  an 
unhappy  metaphor,  which,  literally  taken  and  bandied  about  from  one  carnifex  to 
another,  so  terribly  conduced  to  «  soak  with  blood  »  the  boards  of  that  very  guillotine , 
where  his  early  friend,  Dietrich,  untimelily  had  perished,  and  where  he  himself, 
but  for  the  saving  hand  of  Power,  would  surely  have  lost  his  head  to  the  sounds 
of  his  own  music  and  the  words  of  his  own  song. 

"  At  the  instance,  however,  of  the  amiable  Josephine,  he  went  as  envoi  to  the  court  of  Charles  IV 
of  Spain,  with  presents  to  the  lung,  in  1800 — 1801,  but,  by  the  fatality  of  folly,  which  pursued  him, 
her  patronage  became  his  irretrievable  disgrace. 

-j-  Id  est ,  by  his  associates  of  former  years.  He  had  contracted  many  new  acquaintances.  See  the 
note. 


LA   MARSEILLAISE. 


oQo- 


Allons  !  enfans  de  la  patrie ! 

Le  jour  de  gloire  est  arrive! 
Contre  nous  de  la  tyrannie 

L'etendard  sanglant  est  leve ! 
Entendez-vous  dans  les  campagnes 

Mugir  ces  feroces  soldats? 

lis  viennent  jusque  dans  vos  bras 
Egorger  nos  fils ,  nos  compagnes ! 
Aux  armes ,  citoyens !  forraez  vos  bataillons  ! 
Marchez !  qu'un  sang  impur  abreuve  nos  sillons ! 


Que  veut  cette  borde  d'esclaves , 

De  traitres,  de  rois  conjures? 
Pour  qui  ces  ignobles  entraves , 

Ces  fers  des  longtemps  prepares? 
Francais !  pour  nous ,  ah !  quel  outrage ! 

Quels  transports  il  doit  exciter ! 

C'est  nous  qu'on  ose  mediter 
De  rendre  a  l'antique  esclavage ! 
Aux  armes ,  citoyens !  formez  vos  bataillons ! 
Marchez !  qu'un  sang  impur  abreuve  nos  sillons ! 


LA  MARSEILLAISE. 


0Q0 


To  arms !  to  arms !  ye  sons  of  France ! 

Your  country  calls  :  to  glory  go! 
Behold  the  crimson  flag  advance, 
— The  tyrants ,  that  would  lay  ye  low ! 
And  hear  ye  not  the  savage  race, 

That  tramp  the  plain  with  eager  roar 
To  slaughter  in  your  close  embrace 

Your  children  and  the  wives  that  bore? 
To  arms !  to  arms !  your  rapid  front  oppose , 
And  soak  your  fields     with  blood  that  rankly  flows ! 

What  seek  this  horde  of  yelling  slaves , 

Of  bitter  traitors  ,  banded  kings  ? 
For  whom  are  meant  these  coward  graves, 

These  felon  chains  and  gyving  rings? 
For  us ,  for  us  the  cailiff  throng 

Intend  them  all ,  and  us  they  would 
With  covert — open — madding  wrong 

Reduce  tft  ancient  servitude ! 
To  arms !  to  arms !  your  rapid  front  oppose , 
And  soak  your  fields     with  blood  that  rankly  flows ! 


—  6  — 

Quoi !  des  cohortes  etrangeres 

Feraient  la  loi  dans  nos  foyers ! 
Quoi !  ces  phalanges  rnercenaires 

Terrasseraient  nos  fiers  guerriers  ! 
Grand  Dieu !  par  des  mains  enchainees 
Nos  fronts  sous  le  joug  se  ploiraient ! 
De  vils  despotes  deviendraient 
Les  rnaitres  de  nos  destinees! 
Aux  armes ,  citoyens !  formez  vos  bataillons  ! 
Marchez !  qu'un  sang  impur  abreuve  nos  sillons  I 

Tremblez ,  tyrans !  et  vous ,  perfides  ! 

L'opprobre  de  tous  les  partis ! 
Tremblez !  vos  projets  parricides 

Vont  enfin  recevoir  leur  prix ! 
Tout  est  soldat  pour  vous  combattre. 

S'ils  tombent ,  nos  jeunes  heros , 

La  terre  en  produit  de  nouveaux , 
Contre  vous  tout  prets  a  se  battre ! 
Aux  armes  !  citoyens !  formez  vos  bataillons  ! 
Marchez !  qu'un  sang  impur  abreuve  nos  sillons ! 

Francais !  en  guerriers  magnanimes , 
Portez,  ou  retenez  vos  coups. 

Epargnez  ces  tristes  victimes , 
A  regret  s'armant  contre  nous. 

Mais  le  despote  sanguinaire, — 
Mais  les  complices  de  Bouille , — 
Tous  ces  tigres  ,  qui ,  sans  pitie , 

Dechirent  le  sein  de  leur  mere 

Aux  armes ,  citoyens !  formez  vos  bataillons ! 
Marchez !  qu'un  sang  impur  abreuve  nos  sillons  I 


What!  shall  a  foreign  phalanx  dare 

To  lord  it  on  our  very  hearth? 
Whal !  shall  a  host  of  hirelings  hear 
Our  native  heroes  down  to  earth  ? 
Great  God !  shall  fetter'd  hands  presume 

To  bow  the  bold  and  yoke  the  free? 
Or  tyrant  lips  pronounce  the  doom 
Of  men ,  that  spurn  at  tyranny  ? 
To  arms !  to  arms !  your  rapid  front  oppose, 
And  soak  your  fields      with  blood  that  rankly  flows ! 

Tremble ,  ye  despots !  Tremble ,  ye  , 
The  shame  of  each  disowning  side ! 

The  wages  of  your  treason  see , 

— The  guerdon  of  your  parricide ! 

Tho'  fall  the  young  and  brave ,  what  then  ? 
The  soil  itself  an  army  is, 

And  legions,  starting  from  the  plain, 
Shall  up ,  and  face  Our  enemies ! 
To  arms !  to  arms !  your  rapid  front  oppose , 
And  soak  your  fields     with  blood  that  rankly  flows ! 

Like  noble  Frenchmen  as  ye  are, 

Or  smite  the  bad ,  or  spare  the  blow. 
Destroy  not  with  the  stroke  of  war 

The  helpless  and  unwilling  foe. 
But  they,  the  fell  oppressive  crew, — 

But  they ,  the  brothers  of  Bouille , — 
But  they  ,  the  human  tygers ,  who 

Would  tear  their  mother's  heart  away,- 
To  arms !  to  arms  !  your  rapid  front  oppose , 
And  soak  your  fields      with  blood  that  rankly  Hows ! 


—  8   — 

Amour  sacre  de  la  patrie! 

Conduis ,  soutiens  nos  bras  vengeurs  ! 
Liberte  '.  Liberie  cherie  ! 

Combats  avec  tes  defenseurs ! 
Sous  nos  drapeaux  que  la  vicloire 

Accoure  a  tes  males  accens ! 

Que  tes  ennemis  expirans 
Voient  ton  triomphe  et  notre  gloire!... 
Aux  armes  !  citoyens  !  formez  vos  bataillons  ! 
Marchez !  qu'un  saDg  impur  abreuve  nos  sillons ! 

Strophe  ales  JEiil'ans. 

Nous  entrerons  dans  la  carriere, 

Quand  nos  aines  n'y  seront  plus. 
Nous  y  trouverons  leur  poussiere 

Et  les  traces  de  leurs  vertus. 
Bien  moins  jaloux  de  leur  survivre 

Que  de  partager  leur  cercueil  , 

Nous  aurons  le  sublime  orgueil 
De  les  venger  ou  de  les  suivre. 
Aux  armes  !  citoyens  !  formez  vos  bataillons  ! 
Marchez !  qu'un  sang  impur  abreuve  nos  sillons ! 

Nota.  Francois-Claude-Ainour,  marquis  de  Bouille ,  ne  en  Auvergne ,  1759,  homme  illustre ,  sujet 
1  oyal ,  citoyen  honorable  ,  s'il  en  fut  jamais ,  et  par  consequent  apostrophe  ei-dessus  si  horriblement  a 
tort ,  qu'a-t-il  fait  enfin  ?  son  devoir,  toujours  son  devoir.  General ,  il  a  reprime  l'insurrection ;  royaliste , 
il  a  tente  de  sauver  le  roi ;  patriote ,  il  a  appel6  l'6tranger  a  l'aide  de  la  patrie.  Quant  au  dernier  de 
ces  trois  pretendus  crimes,  bien  des  souverains  eux-memes,  y  compris  Louis  XVI ,  n'en  ont-ils  pas  fait 
autant  ?  Et ,  lorsque  la  France  6tait  sous  le  despotisme  de  Buonaparte ,  qui  a  souleve  Alexandre  et 
Bernadotte  contre  lui  ?  c'etait  «  cette  femme  grand-homme ,  »  Madame  de  Stael. 

Voici  une  mention ,  plus  detaillee ,  du  beau  noni  qu'on  a  voulu  noircir  : 

Les  membres  de  la  famille  de  Bouille  appartiennent  a  trois  branches  qui  sont  separees  depuis  un  certain 
nombre  d'annees.  1°  La  branche  ainee  a  aujourd'hui  pour  principal  repr^sentant  le  general,  comte  Francis 
de  Bouille ,  ancien  aide-de-camp  de  Charles  X ,  Pair  de  France ,  cordon-bleu ,  ayant  rempli  pendant 
plusieurs  annexes  les  fonctions  de  Gouverneur  de  la  Martinique  :  sa  femme  fut  Dame  d'honneur  de 
Mme  la  duchesse  de  Berry. 

2°  La  seconde  branche  a  aujourd'hui  pour  principal  representant  M.  le  baron  Francois-Gabriel  de 
Bouille ,  ancien  page  de  Louis  XVI ,  puis  colonel  de  eavalerie  a  son  service  et  ensuite  a  l'armee  de 
Conde ;  charge-d 'affaires  du  roi  Louis  XVIII  en  Hollande ;  grand  prev&t  et  commandant  de  plusieurs 
places  sous  la  Restauration. 


—  9  — 

Oh  !  sacred  Love  of  Country  '.  be 

Our  aiding  arm,  our  guiding  might ! 
Oh  !  Liberty !  dear  Liberty ! 

Come,  fight  for  them,  for  thee  that  light! 
Let  smiling  Conquest  march  beneath 

Our  banners  at  thy  loud  halloo , 
And  let  thy  leagued  foes  in  death 

Thy  triumph  and  our  glory  view ! 
To  arms !  to  arms !  your  rapid  front  oppose , 
And  soak  your  fields    with  blood  that  rankly  flows! 

ITlie  Children's   §tanzn. 

And  we  will  run  our  fathers'  race , 
— Our  patriotic  course  the  same , — 
And  hail  their  holy  dust,  and  trace 

With  worthy  steps  their  path  to  fame. 
Uncaring  to  survive  the  dead , 

But  ready  on  their  bier  to  lie, 
Be  ours ,  by  true  ambition  led , 

To — what  ?  avenge  them  or  to  die ! 
To  arms !  to  arms !  your  rapid  front  oppose , 
And  soak  your  fields     with  blood  that  rankly  flows  ! 

3°  La  troisieme  branche  avait  pour  chef,  avant  la  Revolution,  le  lieutenant-general,  marquis  de 
Bouille  ,  aneien  Gouverneur  des  Antilles  ,  commandant ,  pour  le  Roi ,  Metz  ,  Toul  et  Verdun  ,  general 
en  chef  du  corps  d'armee  qui  tenta  Invasion  de  Louis  XVI. 

Son  ills,  cnveloppe  avec  lui  dans  le  decret  de  proscription  lance  par  l'Assemhlie  nationale,  servit  en 
Allemagne,  en  Suede  et  en  Angleterre  oil  il  commandait,  en  1794,  les  hulans  britanniques.  Rentre 
en  France  en  1803,  il  conquit  en  Espagne  le  grade  de  general  de  division;  mais  line  ophtalmie,  dont 
il  est  reste  atteint  jusqu'a  la  cecite ,  l'obligea  de  quitter  le  service.  C'est  a  Monsieur  son  ills  que  nous 
devons  VBisloirc  des  dues  de  Guise. 

Tous  ces  faits  sont  altestes  par  les  Biographies.  On  sait  qu'un  des  membres  de  la  seconde  branche 
est  mort  Eveque  de  Poitiers ,  apres  avoir  ete  aumflnier  de  Marie-Antoinette  et  cure  de  la  Martinique. 

Est-ce  un  Breton — est-ce  un  Dinannais — qui  lit  ceci?  eh  bien!  quelles  que  soient  ses  opinions  poli- 
tiques  ,  il  se  souviendra ,  avec  plaisir,  des  liens  de  parente  qui  se  sont  formes  entre  deux  families  des 
plus  respectables  par  le  mariage  de  M.  Francis  Thibault  de  la  Guichardiere  avec  M"»  Alicia  de  Bouille, 
lille  de  M.  le  baron  Francois-Gabriel  de  Bouille,  principal  representant  aujourd'hui  (comme  nous  venous 
de  le  dire )  de  la  deuxieme  branche.  Au  reste ,  rien  de  plus  naturel  qu'une  telle  union.  La  loyaute 
a  vu  son  reflet  de  part  et  d'autre. 


—    10   — 

EXTRAITS    DES    FEL'ILLETONS    DU   SIECLE,    MAI,    1848. 
ECRITS   PAR   FELIX   DERIEGE. 

«  Si  Ton  excepte  les  paroles  et  le  chant  de  la  Marseillaise ,  les  oeuvres  de  Rouget 
de  Lisle  ne  lui  assignent  aucune  place  importante  parmi  les  ecrivains  ou  les  com- 
positeurs qui  ont  illustre  la  fin  du  siecle  passe.  Pourtant  son  nom  est  eminemment 
populaire.  11  reveille  dans  tous  les  coeurs  francais  les  souvenirs  a  jamais  glorieux  de 
notre  premiere  Revolution.  C'est  qu'il  y  eut  un  jour  dans  l'existence  de  cet  homme, 
oil  l'amour  de  la  patrie  supplea  au  genie  qui  lui  manquait ,  oil  le  sentiment  revolu- 
tionnaire  en  fit  un  grand  poete ,  ou  son  patriotisme  lui  inspira  d'energiques  paroles . 
d'eloquentes  melodies  pour  appeler  ses  freres  a  la  defense  de  la  liberie  reconquise 
et  de  la  France  envahie.  Le  monde  entier  connait  la  Marseillaise.  Elle  a  retenti 
dans  toute  la  vieille  Europe  en  meme  temps  que  s'y  deployait  le  drapeau  de  la  France 
regeneree.  Parlout  elle  a  glace  nos  ennemis  d'epouvante,  partout  elle  a  ranime  les 
esperances  des  peuples  opprimes.  Et  cependant  la  vie  du  poete  qui  composa  notre 
chant  national  est  presque  inconnue.  A  peine  savons-nous  le  lieu  et  l'epoque  de 
sa  naissance;  a  peine  quelques  journaux  ont-ils  enregistre  la  date  de  sa  raort. 


«11  se  destina  de  bonne  heure  a  l'etat  militaire,  et,  grace  a  ses  talens,  peut-etre 
meme  a  sa  naissance,  il  obtint  un  avancement  rapide  a  l'epoque  oil  toutes  les  carrieres 
commencaient  a  s'encombrer.  Ofiicier  du  genie  a  29  ans,  brave,  genereux,  imbu 
de  toutes  les  idees  de  progres  et  de  liberte  qui  agitaient  alors  la  France,  il  salua 
avec  enthousiasme  la  Revolution  de  1789.  Les  sentimens  de  Rouget  de  Lisle  a  cette 
epoque  etaient  d'autant  plus  estimables ,  que  les  reformes  exigees  par  la  Nation 
devaient  precisement  atteindre  la  caste  privilegiee  a  laquelle  il  appartenait. 

(drois  ans  s'ecoulerent.  Rouget  de  Lisle  etait  devenu  capitaine  du  genie  et  tenaii 
garnison  a  Strasbourg,  lorsqu'y  fut  proclamee  la  declaration  de  guerre  de  la  France  an 
roi  de  Roheme  et  de  Hongrie.  *  C'etait  a  la  fin  d'avril  1792.  Nous  achevions  alors  de 
parcourir  cette  pente  glissante  qui  devait  nous  conduire  de  la  monarchie  consfitu- 
tionnelle  au  gouvernement  republicain.  Louis  XVI  allait  etre  emporte  par  le  tlot 
populaire;  a  chaque  instant  l'insurrection  se  dressait  en  armes  aux  abords  de  son 
palais.  Menacee  a  l'exterieur  par  l'invasion,  a  l'interieur  par  la  guerre  civile,  ne 
tirant  plus  aucun  service  de  son  administration  desorganisee,  la  France  ne  se  preparait 
pas  moins  a  soutenir  contre  l'Europe  une  lutte  de  geans.  Elle  attendait  l'avenir , 
fremissant  de  crainte,  mais  aussi  d'impatience  et  d'indignation.     Des  milliers  de 

*  Francois  Ier  n'etait  pas  encore  elu  empereur. 


—  11  — 

EXTRACTS  FROM  THE  FEUILLETONS  OF  « LE  SIECLE,»   MAY,   1848. 
WRITTEN  BY  FELIX  DERIEGE. 

« If  we  except  the  words  and  the  air  of  La  Marseillaise ,  the  works  of  Rouget  de 
Lisle  assign  him  no  important  place  among  the  authors  or  composers ,  who  adorned 
the  close  of  the  by-gone  century.  His  name ,  nevertheless ,  is  eminently  popular.  He 
awakens,  in  the  breast  of  every  Frenchman  ,  the  undying  reminiscencies  of  our  first , 
our  glorious  revolution.  The  reason  of  it  is,  that  there  was  an  hour  in  the  life 
of  this  man ,  when  the  love  of  country  stood  him  in  the  stead  of  genius ;  when  the 
revolutionary  feeling  rendered  him  a  great  poet;  and  when  his  patriotism  inspired 
him  with  energetic  words  and  eloquent  strains ,  wherewith  to  rouze  his  fellow- 
countrymen  to  the  defence  of  their  reconquered  liberty  and  to  the  rescue  of  their 
invaded  land.  The  world  at  large  is  cognizant  of  La  Marseillaise.  It  has  rung 
throughout  the  whole  of  ancient  Europe  as  often  as  regenerated  France  has  unfurled 
her  triumphant  flag.  Every  where  has  it  congealed  her  enemies  with  fear ;  every 
where  has  it  warmed  with  hope  the  spirit  of  a  people ,  when ,  like  her  own ,  it 
was  drooping  and  oppressed.  And  yet ,  for  all  this ,  the  life  of  the  poet ,  to  whom 
we  are  indebted  for  our  national  song,  is  but  very  partially  known.  Scarcely  can 
we  venture  to  speak  of  the  place  of  his  birth  or  of  the  date  of  it ,  and  scarcely 
has  a  single  journal  recorded  the  period  of  his  death. 

«  He  entered  the  army  at  an  early  age ,  and ,  thanks  to  his  talents  or  perhaps  his 
rank,  he  obtained  a  rapid  rise  at  the  very  time,  when  all  the  professions  began  to  be 
overstocked.  An  artillery-officer  at  29,  brave,  generous,  imbued  with  the  ideas  of 
progress  and  of  liberty,  which,  at  that  epoch ,  agitated  France,  he  hailed  with 
enthusiasm  the  revolution  of  1789.  The  sentiments  of  Rouget  de  Lisle,  on  that  great 
occasion,  were  all  the  more  creditable,  because  the  reforms,  demanded  by  the  nation, 
were  expressly  aimed  at  the  priviledged  class ,  to  which  he  happened  to  belong. 

«Three  years  elapsed.  Rouget  de  Lisle  had  been  made  captain  of  artillery,  and 
was  in  the  garrison  of  Strasbourg ,  when  France  declared  war  against  *  the  King  of 
Bohemia  and  Hungary.  It  was  the  end  of  April,  1792.  We  had  just  effected  the 
slippery  descent ,  which  was  to  lead  us  from  a  constitutional  monarchy  to  a  republican 
goverment.  Louis  XVI  was  on  the  point  of  being  swept  away  by  the  popular  flood  : 
at  every  moment  was  insurrection  up  in  arms  at  every  access  to  his  palace.  Menaced 
with  invasion  from  without  and  with  civil  war  at  home,  drawing  no  longer  the 
slighest  benefit  from  her  disorganized  administration,  France  no  less  prepared  herself 
for  the  field ,  to  wage  against  Europe  a  veritable  war  of  giants.  She  awaited 
the  result ,  trembling  with  fear,  but  impatient  and  indignant  too.     Thousands  of 

*  Francis  I  had  not  yet  been  elected  Emperor. 


—   12  — 

volontaires  aecouraient  de  toutes  parts  aux  frontieres  du  nord  et  de  Test,  sur  lesquelies 
le  canon  commencait  a  gronder.  Ces  evenemens  inspirerent  a  Rouget  de  Lisle  son 
Chant  de  I'armee  du  Rhin  ,  aujourd'hui  connu  sous  le  nom  de  Marseillaise.  De 
nombreux  bataillons  de  federes  s'etaient  enroles  a  Strasbourg,  soit  pour  aller  renfoncer 
l'armee  d'observation  cantonnee  en  Alsace  sous  les  ordres  du  marechal  Luckner, 
soit  pour  prendre  part  a  Fenvahissement  des  Pays-Bas  autrichiens.  Le  depart  de 
ces  volontaires  etait  fixe  au  lendemain ,  et  M.  Dietrich ,  maire  de  Strasbourg ,  avec  une 
partie  de  la  population,  devait  les  accompagner  jusqu'a  une  lieue  de  la  ville.  Pour 
feter  leurs  chefs,  Dietrich  les  reunit  dans  un  diner  auquel  furent  aussi  convies  les 
officiers  de  la  garnison.  Le  magistrat  n'avait  pas  oublie  dans  ses  invitations  la  societe 
elegante  qui  pouvait  donner  du  charme  et  de  la  spleudeur  a  sa  fete.  On  s'y  entretint 
longtemps  des  bienfaits  de  la  Revolution,  des  menaces  de  l'Europe,  et  de  l'hero'ique 
resistance  qu'on  avait  resolu  d'y  opposer.  L'enthousiasme  gagna  rapidemenl  cette 
foule  de  jolies  femmes  et  de  braves  militaires ,  tous  unis  par  les  memes  sentimens ; 
ils  voulurent  entendre ,  des  que  le  repas  fut  acheve ,  les  divers  morceaux  de  l'ancien 
repertoire  qu'iis  croyaient  capables  de  repondre  a  l'ardent  patriotisme  qui  les  animait. 
Mais  les  invites  de  Dietrich  chercherent  vainement  parmi  ces  chefs-d'oeuvre  une 
marche,  une  hymne  guerrier,  qui  fut  a  la  hauteur  de  leur  enthousiasme  :  pas  une 
de  ces  vieilles  melodies  ne  satisfit  leur  imagination...  Nous  n'avions  pas  de  chant 
national.  Voila  ce  que  tout  le  monde  se  mit  a  regretter.  Rouget  de  Lisle  quitte 
aussitot  l'assemblee ;  il  court  s'enfermer  chez  lui ,  et  la ,  brulant  de  fievre ,  son  violon 
a  la  main ,  il  passe  le  reste  de  la  nuit  a  composer  les  paroles  et  la  musique  d'une 
marche  guerriere.  II  la  transcrit  sous  ce  titre  :  Chant  de  Varmie  du  Rhin,  et  retourne 
chez  Dietrich,  dont  les  hotes,  retenus  par  le  jeu  et  par  la  danse,  ne  s'etaient  pas 
encore  separes.  Le  feu  de  1'inspiration  brillait  dans  le  regard  du  jeune  poete  quand  il 
se  precipita  dans  le  salon,  son  chef-d'ceuvre  a  la  main.  On  le  mit  aussitot  a  l'etude. 
Miie  Dietrich  l'accompagna  sur  son  piano-,  pendant  qu'une  voix  le  chantait.  On  se 
recueille  aux  premieres  notes;  on  ecoute,  on  admire.  Bientot  l'enthousiasme  eclate, 
cent  voix  d'hommes  et  de  femmes  repetent  a  1'envi  cet  appel  :  Aux  armes !  citoyens ! 
qui  vient  de  couplet  en  couplet  servir  de  commentaire  aux  males  accens  du  patriote 
indigne.  Le  succes  de  Rouget  de  Lisle  fut  immense.  II  avait  su  donner  une  forme , 
une  voix  a  toutes  les  passions  guerrieres  qui  s'agitaient  autour  de  lui.  L'hymne 
nouveau  fut  execute  ce  jour-la  meme  en  public  a  l'heure  de  la  garde  moutante. 
Un  journal  constitutionnel,  qu'on  redigeait  alors  a  Strasbourg,  sous  les  auspices  de 
Dietrich ,  le  fit  bientdt  connaitre  a  la  France  entiere.  En  peu  de  temps  il  devint 
populaire,  surtout  a  Marseille,  dont  les  habitans  s'etaient  jetes  dans  la  revolution 
avec  une  incroyable  ardeur.  Les  federes  de  cette  ville  le  chanterent  en  entrant  & 
Paris  vers  les  derniers  jours  de  juillet  1792 ;  et  ce  fut  probablement  a  cette  epoque 
que  l'ceuvre  de  Rouget  de  Lisle  prit  le  nom  de  Chant  des  Marseillais.  La  royaute 
tomba,  et  chaque  jour  vint  aggraver  la  situation  de  la  France  et  les  perils  de  la 
revolution.  Republicans  et  royalistes,  vainqueurs  et  vaincus,  ne  songeaient  qu'i 
recommencer  une  lutte  desastreuse,  pendant  que  cent  trente-huit  milie  etrangers, 
parfaitement  organises ,  depuis  longtemps  formes  a  la  discipline  militaire ,  commen- 


—  13  — 

volunteers  flocked  from  all  parts  of  the  country  to  the  frontiers  on  the  north  and 
east,  where  even  now  the  cannon  began  to  roar.  And  this  it  was,  that  inspired 
de  Lisle  with  his  « Song  of  the  Army  of  the  Rhine , »  subsequently  known  as  «  La 
Marseillaise. »  Numerous  batallions  of  (ifederisn  had  enrolled  themselves  at  Stras- 
bourg ,  either  to  reinforce  the  army  of  observation ,  which  was  cantonned  in  Alsace , 
under  the  orders  of  Marshal  Luckner,  or,  as  auxiliaries,  to  invade  the  Netherlands 
of  Austria.  The  departure  of  these  volunteers  was  fixed  for  the  morrow,  and  Monsieur 
Dietrich ,  mayor  of  Strasbourg,  with  a  portion  of  the  population ,  was  to  escort  them  a 
league  beyond  the  town.  By  way  of  fete-ing  their  chiefs,  Mr  Dietrich  assembled  them 
at  a  dinner,  to  which  the  garrison-officers  had  received  an  invitation  as  well.  The 
magistrate  had  borne  in  mind ,  too ,  the  soft ,  the  elegant  society,  which  might  bestow 
a  charm ,  and  shed  a  lustre  on  the  fete.  The  company  talked  much  and  long  of  the 
blessings  of  the  Revolution ,  the  threats  of  Europe ,  and  the  heroical  resistance ,  which 
France  was  resolved  to  make.  The  crowd  of  lovely  women  and  brave  men ,  all 
united  by  the  same  sentiments,  were  all  possessed  with  the  same  zeal.  The  repast 
finished,  they  were  anxious  to  hear,  out  of  the  old  repertory,  the  various  pieces, 
which ,  in  their  opinion ,  responded  best  to  the  patriotic  fervour,  which  animated 
their  bosoms.  But  the  guests  of  Dietrich  sought  in  vain  among  those  chefs-d'oeuvre 
for  a  march, — a  martial  hymn,— which  was  on  the  high  level  of  their  enthusiasm  : 
not  one  of  those  ancient  melodies  contented  them,  a  We  have  no  national  song  »  was 
the  universal  cry,  — the  universal  regret.  Rouget  de  Lisle  hurries  from  the  assembly, 
shuts  himself  up  in  his  room,  and  there,  burning  with  fever,  violin  in  hand,  he 
spends  the  remainder  of  the  night  in  composing  the  words  and  music  of  a  march. 
Transcribed,  he  entitles  it  «  The  Song  of  the  Army  of  the  Rhine,  »  and  hastens  back 
to  Dietrich's,  where  the  company,  retained  by  dancing  and  by  cards,  are  still  unbroken 
up.  The  fire  of  inspiration  is  flashing  in  the  eyes  of  the  young  poet,  as  he  throws 
himself  into  the  salon  with  his  masterpiece  in  his  hand.  It  is  tried  immediately. 
M"«  Dietrich  plays  the  accompaniment :  another  person  sings  it.  The  opening  notes 
are  listened  to  in  silence...  then  a  thrill...  then  admiration  —  then  enthusiasm.  A 
hundred  vying  voices  of  men  and  women  repeat  again  and  again  :  «  Aux  amies , 
citoyens ! »  which,  coming  stanza  after  stanza,  forms  a  fitting  commentary  to  the 
accents  —  the  masculine  accents — -of  the  wrathful  patriot.  The  success  of  Rouget  de 
Lisle  was  immense.  He  had  known  how  to  give  a  shape — a  voice  — to  the  warlike 
passions ,  which  were  fermenting  round  about  him.  That  very  day,  the  new  hymn 
was  publicly  performed  at  the  hour  of  mounting  guard.  A  constitutional  Paper, 
which  was  then  edited  at  Strasbourg  by  Mr  Dietrich,  soon  communicated  it  to  the 
whole  of  France.  In  a  short  time ,  it  became  popular,  especially  at  Marseilles ,  where 
the  inhabitants  had  plunged  into  the  Revolution  with  an  inconceivable  ardour.  The 
ufederesv  of  that  town  sang  it  on  their  entry  into  Paris  towards  the  end  of  July, 
1792,  and  it  was  probably  at  this  epoch,  that  the  work  of  Rouget  de  Lisle  took 
the  name  of  «  La  Marseillaise.  »  Royalty  fell ,  and  every  added  day  aggravated  the 
situation  of  France  and  the  perils  of  the  Revolution.  Republicans  and  royalists, 
victors  and  vauquished ,  only  thought  of  recommencing  a  calamitous  struggle ,  while 


—  14  — 

caient  a  nous  envahir.  Mais  rhero'isme  du  peuple  grandissait  en  proportion  du 
danger.  Partout,  au  chant  de  la  Marseillaise,  des  nuees  de  volontaires  abandonnaient, 
pour  alter  combattre ,  les  salons  et  les  comptoirs ,  les  hameaux  et  les  villes ,  la 
charrue  et  l'atelier.  La  marche  guerriere  de  Rouget  de  Lisle  etait  devenue  le  chant 
de  tous  les  patriotes.  On  le  rdpetait  au  milieu  des  rues,  sur  les  routes  et  dans 
les  theatres.  Nos  jeunes  soldats  la  chantaient  a  Valmy,  lorsqu'ils  s'elancerent  de 
leurs  retranchemens  pour  charger  a  la  ba'ionnette  et  culbuter  les  Prussiens.  Ce 
fut  en  entonnant  l'hymne  des  Marseillais  que  Dumouriez  porta  ses  bataillons  sur 
le  village  de  Cuesmes ,  decida  le  succes  de  la  bataille  de  Jemmappes  et  sauva  la 
Revolution.  La  Marseillaise  entin  recut  sa  consecration  definitive  a  Paris  le  14  octobre 
1792.  Elle  avait  contribue  a  la  victoire ;  elle  eut  sa  place  dans  le  programme  de 
la  fete  qui  devait  en  perpetuer  le  souvenir.  Sept  couplets  y  furent  ajoutes  a  cette 
occasion ;  mais  ils  sont  indignes  pour  la  plupart  de  flgurer  a  c6te  du  texte  primitif. 
Une  seule  de  ces  strophes  nous  a  ete  conservee,  et  celle-la  exprime  en  beaux  vers 
une  pensee  vraiment  genereuse.  Elle  commence  par  ces  paroles  :  «  Nous  entrerons 
«dans  la  carriers,  etc.» 


«  Les  anciens  amis  de  Rouget  de  Lisle  1'avaient  presque  tous  abandonne :  il  en  trouva 
d'autres  dans  cette  generation  nouvelle  de  litterateurs  et  d'artistes  qui  naquit  vers  les 
derniers  temps  de  la  Restauration.  C'etaient  Reranger,  MM.  David  (d'Angers)  et  Bra, 
sculpteurs,  et  surtout  M.  Vo'iart,  dans  la  maison  duquel  il  passa  les  dernieres  annees 
de  sa  vie.  Apres  la  Revolution  de  1830,  Beranger  sollicita  une  modique  pension 
pour  l'illustre  auteur  de  la  Marseillaise ,  alors  vieux  et  infirme,  et  fut  assez  heureux 
pour  l'obtenir.  Ce  n'etait  qu'une  modique  somme  de  1,200  fr. ,  mais  cela  suffisait 
pour  satisfaire  les  gouts  modestes  du  vieillard  et  pour  qu'il  se  procurat  de  temps 
a  autre  le  plaisir  d'obliger.  Un  grand  nombre  de  personnes  Font  connu  dans  ses 
dernieres  annees ,  soit  a  Paris,  soit  a  Choisy-le-Roi.  On  aimait  a  entendre  ses  longs 
recits,  car  il  avait  vu  beaucoup  et  beaucoup  observe ;  on  remarquait  l'originalite  de 
sa  conversation,  la  politesse  et  1'elegance  exquises  de  ses  manieres  qui  semblaient 
appartenir  a  un  autre  age.  11  avait  su  inspirer  a  tous  ceux  qui  l'approchaient  un 
profond  respect  et  un  sincere  attachement. 

«  Un  jour  enfin ,  un  char  funebre  sortit  d'une  maison  de  la  rue  des  Vertus  et  se 
dirigea  vers  le  cimetiere  de  Choisy.  Sur  le  cercueil  reposait  une  couronne  de  laurier, 
une  croix  d'honneur  et  une  epee  d'officier  du  genie.  Le  maire  de  la  commune, 
M.  Boivin ,  le  general  Rlein ,  M.  Bra  et  M.  de  Guer  tenaient  les  coins  du  poele. 
Suivaient  quelques  amis  plonges  dans  une  douleur  profonde.  C'etait  Rouget  de  Lisle 
qu'on  enterrait. 

«Mais  il  etait  juste  que  le  peuple  concourut  a  la  solennite  de  ces  funerailles,  car 
de  cette  froide  depouille  qu'on  transportait  avait  jailli ,  quarante-quatre  ans  aupa- 
ravant ,  comme  un  trait  de  flamme ,  l'hymne  guerrier  qui  guida  nos  bataillons  a 
la  victoire ,  et  le  peuple  n'oublie  pas.  Aussi  la  garde  nationale  de  Choisy  etait-elle 
sous  les  armes  5  aussi  tous  les  ouvriers  des  fabriques  voisines  avaient-ils  quitte 


—   15  — 

138,000  foreigners,  perfectly  well  organised,  and  long  ago  in  a  perfect  state  of 
discipline,  were  beginning  to  invade  us.  But  the  heroism  of  the  people  increased 
in  proportion  to  the  danger.  On  all  sides,  at  the  sound  of  «  La  Marseillaise ,  » 
clouds  of  volunteers  abandoned  for  the  battle-field  the  salon  and  the  office ,  the 
hamlet  and  the  town ,  the  workshop  and  the  plough.  The  march  of  Rouget  de  Lisle 
was  become  the  song  of  every  patriot.  It  was  repeated  in  the  middle  of  the  streets, — 
in  the  highroads, — in  the  theatres.  Our  young  soldiers  sang  it  at  *  Valmy,  when, 
bayonet  in  hand,  they  poured  from  their  entrenchments,  and  overthrew  the  Prussians. 
It  was  in  thundering  out  «  La  Marseillaise , »  that  Dumouriez  bore  his  batallions 
upon  the  village  of  Cuesmes ,  decided  the  battle  of  Jemmappes ,  and  saved  the 
Revolution.  Finally,  « La  Marseillaise »  was  conclusively  consecrated  at  Paris , 
Oetober  14th,  1792.  It  had  contributed  to  victory  :  it  had  its  due  place  in  the 
programme  of  the  fete,  which  was  to  perpetuate  its  memory.  Seven  stanzas  were 
added  on  this  occasion ,  but  were ,  for  the  most  part ,  unworthy  of  figuring  beside 
the  primitive  text.  A  single  strophe  has  been  preserved  to  us,  and  that,  indeed, 
expresses,  in  fine  lines,  a  really  noble  thought.  It  begins  with  the  words,  «  And 
«  we  ivill  run  our  fathers'  race.  » 

« The  former  friends  of  Rouget  de  Lisle  had  nearly  all  deserted  him ,  but  he 
had  met  with  others  among  that  new  generation  of  artists  and  litterati ,  which 
sprung  up  about  the  end  of  the  Restoration, — Reranger,  David  (of  Angers),  and 
Bra,  the  sculptors,  and  particularly  Mr  Voiart,  in  whose  hospitable  house  he  passed 
the  latter  years  of  his  life.  After  the  Revolution  of  1830,  Reranger  solicited  a 
modest  pension  for  the  illustrious  author  of  v. La  Marseillaise,*  and  was  fortunate 
enough  to  obtain  it  It  was  only  1200  francs,  but  it  sufficed  for  the  simple 
wants  of  the  old  man,  and  enabled  him,  at  times,  to  be  of  service  in  his  turn. 
A  vast  number  of  persons  were  acquainted  with  him,  both  at  Paris  and  at  Choisy- 
le-Roi.  They  loved  to  hear  his  long  stories,  for  he  had  seen  much  and  seen  well. 
They  were  struck  with  the  originality  of  his  conversation ,  with  his  perfect  polish 
and  with  the  exquisite  elegance  of  his  manners ,  which  appeared  to  belong  to 
another  age.  He  had  the  happy  art  of  inspiring  whoever  approached  him  with 
sincere  attachment  and  profound  respect. 

«  At  last,  a  bier  was  seen  coming  out  from  a  house  in  la  rue  des  Vertus,  and 
was  borne  towards  the  cemetery  of  Choisy.  On  the  coffin  were  a  laurel-crown ,  a 
croix  d'honneur,  and  the  sword  of  an  artillery-officer.  The  mayor  of  the  commune, 
Mr  Boivin ,  the  general  Blein ,  Messieurs  Rra  and  de  Guer  held  the  four  corners 
of  the  pall,  while  some  other  mourners  (and  they  were  such)  walked  slowly  in  the 
rear.    It  was  Rouget  de  Lisle,  going  to  be  buried. 

«  Rut  it  was  proper,  that  the  people  should  assist  at  the  mournful  ceremony  as 
well ,  inasmuch  as  from  the  cold  and  senseless  clay,  which  was  about  to  be  committed 
to  the  kindred  earth,  had  flashed,  some  four-and-forty  years  before,  the  martial 
hymn,  which  led  our  troops  to  victory, — a  fact,  which  the  people,  at  least,  was 
little  likely  to  forget.    The  national  guard  of  Choisy,  then,  was  under  arms;  the 

Felix  Deriege ,  be  it  said ,  founds  his  assertions  on  the  authentic  papers,  «  les  pieces  originates,  •■> 
of  Rouget  de  Lisle.  See  the  note  (  battle  of  valmy,  page  3d. ) 


—   16  — 

spontanement  leurs  ateliers  pour  accompagner  au  cimetiere  le  poete  immortel  de  notre 
immortelle  Revolution.  Oh!  ce  fut  une  ceremonie  touchante;  car  ces  braves  travailleurs 
distribuaient  a  tous  les  assistans  des  bouquets  d'immortelles ;  ils  marchaient  deux 
a  deux,  la  tete  decouverle,  dans  un  religieux  recueillement.  Puis,  quand  la  derniere 
pelletee  de  terre  eut  ete  jetee  sur  le  deTunt,  quand  la  derniere  goutte  d'eau  benite 
cut  arrose  le  sol  qui  le  recouvrait,  tous,  ouvriers.  maire,  artistes,  gardes  nationaux  , 
entonnerent  la  Marseillaise.  » 


EXTRA1TS  DE  VHISTOIRE  DES  GIRONDINS,   Par  A.   DE  LAMART1NE. 

«Tout  se  preparait  dans  les  departemens  pour  envoyer  a  Paris  les  vingt  mille 
hommes ,  decretes  par  l'Assemblee.  Les  Marseillais ,  appeles  par  Barbaroux  sur  les 
instances  de  Madame  Roland ,  s'approchaient  de  la  capitale.  C'etait  le  feu  des  ames 
du  midi  venant  raviver  a  Paris  le  foyer  revolutionnaire,  trop  languissant  au  gre 
des  Girondins.  Ce  corps  de  douze  ou  quinze  cents  hommes  etait  compose  de  Genois , 
de  Liguriens,  de  Corses,  de  Piemontais  expatries  et  recrutes  pour  un  coup-de-main 
deeisif  sur  toutes  les  rives  de  la  Mediterranee ;  la  plupart  matelots  ou  soldats , 
aguerris  au  feu,  quelques-uns  scelerats  aguerris  au  crime.  Ils  etaient  commandes 
par  des  jeunes  gens  de  Marseille,  amis  de  Barbaroux  et  d'Isnard.  Fanatises  par  le 
soleil  et  par  l'eloquence  des  clubs  provencaux,  ils  s'avancaient  aux  applaudissemens 
des  populations  du  centre  de  la  France,  regus,  fetes,  enivres  d'enthousiasme  et  de  vin 
dans  des  banquets  patriotiques ,  qui  se  succedaient  sur  leur  passage.  Le  pretexte 
de  leur  marche  etait  de  fraterniser,  a  la  prochaine  confederation  du  14  Juillet , 
avec  les  antres  federes  du  royaume.  Le  motif  secret  etait  d'intimider  la  garde 
nationale  de  Paris ,  de  retremper  1'energie  des  faubourgs ,  et  d'etre  l'avant-garde 
de  ce  camp  de  vingt  mille  hommes  que  les  Girondins  avaient  fait  voter  h,  l'As- 
semblee pour  dominer  a  la  fois  les  Feuillants,  les  Jacobins,  le  Roi  et  l'Assemblee 
elle-meme  avec  une  armee  des  departemens  toute  composee  de  leurs  creatures. 

«  La  mer  du  peuple  bouillonnait  a  leur  approche.  Les  gardes  nationales  ,  les 
federes ,  les  soeiet.es  populaires ,  les  enfans ,  les  femmes ,  toute  cette  partie  des 
populations ,  qui  vit  des  emotions  de  la  rue ,  et  qui  court  a  tous  les  spectacles 
publics,  volaient  a  la  rencontre  des  Marseillais.  Leurs  figures  halees,  leurs  pby- 
sionomies  martiales,  leurs  yeux  de  feu,  leurs  uniformes  couverts  de  la  poussiere 
des  routes,  leur  coiffure  phrygienne,  leurs  armes  bizarres,  les  canons  qu'ils  trai- 
naient  a  leur  suite,  les  branches  de  verdure,  dont  ils  ombragaient  leurs  bonnets 
rouges,  leurs  langages  etrangers  meles  de  juremens  et  accentues  de  gestes  feroces, 
tout  cela  frappait  vivement  l'imagination  de  la  multitude.  L'idee  revolutionnaire 
semblait  s'etre  faite  homme  et  marcher,  sous  la  figure  de  cette  horde ,  a  l'assaut 


—   17  — 

workmen,  too,  at  the  neighbouring  manufactories  had  voluntarily  quitted  them, 
ihat  honour  might  be  done  the  dead,  and  that  the  poet,  whose  memory,  like  the 
Revolution's,  could  never  die,  might  be  fitly  followed  to  his  grave.  Yes!  it  was 
a  touching  sight, — the  distribution  of  those  bunches  of  immortelles  by  those  soldier- 
artisans  ,  that  presently,  with  heads  uncovered  and  in  solemn  silence ,  were  marching 
two  by  two !  And  then ,  when  the  last  scantling  of  earth  had  been  thrown  upon 
the  dead, — when  the  last  drop  of  holy  water  had  been  sprinkled  on  the  clay,  that 
covers  other  clay,— workmen ,  mayor,  artists,  national  guards,— one  and  all  set  up 
'  La  Marseillaise. ' » 


EXTRACTS  FROM  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  G [RON DINS,  By  A.  DE  LAMART1NE. 

«  The  departments  were  all  activity  to  send  to  Paris  the  20,000  men ,  voted  by  the 
Assembly.  The  Marseillais,  that  had  been  summoned  by  Barbaroux  at  the  instance 
of  Madame  Roland,  were  approaching  the  capital.  It  was  the  soul  of  the  south  coming 
to  rekindle  the  revolutionary  hearth  ,  too  dull ,  too  cold  ,  too  dead  to  please  the  Giron- 
dins.  This  body  of  1200  or  1500  men  was  composed  of  expatriated  Genoese,  Ligurians, 
Corsicans,  and  natives  of  Piedmont,  enrolled  for  a  decisive  coup-de-main  along  the 
entire  coast  of  the  Mediterranean ,  the  majority  of  them  being  sailors  or  soldiers , 
thoroughly  inured  to  service ,  while  some  of  them  were  desperadoes ,  thoroughly 
inured  to  crime.  They  were  commanded  by  young  men  of  Marseilles ,  friends  of 
Barbaroux  and  Isnard.  The  offspring  of  a  burning  sun  and  phrenzied  by  the  eloquence 
of  provincial  clubs,  they  marched  on  to  the  acclamations  of  central  France,  welcomed, 
fete-ed ,  intoxicated  with  ardour  and  with  wine  at  the  patriotic  banquets ,  which  ,  in 
such  quick  succession ,  carouzed  them  on  their  route.  Their  ostensible  object  was  to 
fraternize,  at  the  impending  confederation  of  July  l4,b,  with  the  other  fe'deres  of 
the  kingdom;  their  real,  to  intimidate  the  national  guard  of  Paris,  to  reimbue  the 
faubourgs  with  energy ,  and  to  form  the  van  of  that  camp  of  20,000  men  ,  which  the 
Girondins  had  induced  the  Assembly  to  decree,  by  way  of  keeping  under,  at  one  and 
the  same  lime,  the  Feuillants,  the  Jacobins,  the  King,  and  the  Assembly  itself  with  an 
army,  drawn  from  the  departments ,  and  intirely  composed  of  their  own  creatures. 

«  The  people ,  at  their  approach ,  fermented  like  a  sea.  The  national  guards ,  the 
federes ,  the  clubs ,  the  children ,  the  women ,  all  that  portion  of  a  population ,  in 
short,  whose  being  is  the  stir  of  the  streets  and  whose  magnet  is  the  public  show, 
flew,  like  lightning,  to  meet  the  Marseillais.  Their  sun- burnt  faces,  their  martial 
looks ,  their  eyes  of  fire ,  their  uniforms  covered  with  the  dust  of  the  roads ,  their 
Phrygian  head-gear,  their  curious  arms,  the  cannons,  which  they  dragged  along,  the 
green  branches  to  shade  their  scarlet  caps,  their  strange  dialects,  mixed  with  oaths 
and  accentuated  by  ferocious  gests,  all  this,  I  say,  forcibly  affected  the  imagination 
of  the  multitude.  It  seemed  as  though  the  abstract  idea  of  Revolution  had  become 
Man,  and  was  marching,  under  the  guise  of  this  outlandish  horde  ,  to  attack  the  last 


—  18  — 

des  derniers  debris  de  la  royaute.  lis  entraient  dans  les  villes  et  dans  les  villages 
sous  des  arcs  de  triomphe.  lis  chantaient  en  marchant  des  strophes  terribles.  Ces 
couplets  alternes  par  le  bruit  regulier  de  leurs  pas  sur  les  routes  et  par  le  son  des 
tambours ,  ressemblaient  aux  chceurs  de  la  patrie  et  de  la  guerre ,  repondant ,  a 
intervalles  egaux  ,  au  cliquetis  des  armes  et  aux  instruments  de  niort  dans  une 
marche  aux  combats.     Voici  ce  chant,  grave  dans  l'ame  de  la  France.  » 

«  Semblable  a  ces  drapeaux  sacres  suspendus  aux  voiifes  des  temples  et  qu'on  n'en 
sort  qu'a  certains  jours,  on  garde  le  chant  national  comme  une  arme  extreme  pour  les 
grandes  necessites  de  la  patrie.  Le  n6tre  regut  des  circonstances ,  ou  il  jaillit  un 
caractere  particulier,  qui  le  rend  a  la  fois  plus  solennel  et  plus  sinistre  :  la  gloire 
et  le  crime,  la  victoire  et  la  mort  semblent  entrelaces  dans  ses  refrains.  II  fut  le 
chant  du  patriotisme,  mais  il  fut  aussi  l'imprecation  de  la  fureur.  II  conduisit  nos 
soldats  a  la  frontiere,  mais  il  accompagna  nos  victimes  a  I'echafaud.  Le  meme  fer 
defend  le  cceur  du  pays  dans  la  main  du  soldat  et  egorge  les  victimes  dans  la  main 
du  bourreau. 

«  La  Marseillaise  conserve  un  retentissement  de  chant  de  gloire  et  de  cri  de  mort: 
glorieuse  comme  Tun ,  funebre  comme  l'autre ,  elle  rassure  la  patrie  et  fait  palir 
les  citoyens.     Voici  son  origine. 

«  H  y  avait  alors  un  jeune  officier  du  genie  en  garnison  a  Strasbourg.  Son  nom 
etait  Rouget  de  Lisle.  II  etait  ne  a  Lons-le-Saunier,  dans  ce  Jura,  pays  de  reverie  et 
d'energie,  comme  le  sont  toujours  les  montagnes.  Ce  jeune  homme  aimait  la  guerre 
comme  soldat ,  la  Revolution  comme  penseur  :  il  charmait  par  les  vers  et  par  la 
musique  les  lentes  impatiences  de  la  garnison.  Recherche  pour  son  double  talent  de 
musicien  et  de  poete ,  il  frequentait  familierement  la  maison  du  baron  de  Dietrich , 
noble  alsacien  du  parti  constitutionnel ,  ami  de  La  Fayette  et  maire  de  Strasbourg. 
La  femme  du  baron  de  Dietrich ,  ses  jeunes  amies',  partageaient  l'enthousiasme  du 
patriotisme  et  de  la  Revolution,  qui  palpitait  surtout  aux  frontieres,  comme  les 
crispations  du  corps  menace"  sont  plus  sensibles  aux  extremites.  Elles  aimaient  le 
jeune  officier,  elles  inspiraient  son  cceur,  sa  poesie,  sa  musique.  Elles  executaient 
les  premieres  ses  pensees  a  peine  ecloses ,  confidentes  des  balbutiemens  de  son 
genie. 

«  C'&ait  dans  1'hiver  de  1792.  La  disette  regnait  a  Strasbourg.  La  maison  de 
Dietrich,  opulente  au  commencement  de  la  Revolution,  mais  6puisee  de  sacrifices 
necessites  par  les  catamites  du  temps ,  s'etait  appauvrie.  Sa  table  frugale  etait 
hospitaliere  pour  Rouget  de  Lisle.  Le  jeune  officier  s'y  asseyait  le  soir  et  le  matin 
comme  un  fils  ou  un  frere  de  la  famille.  Un  jour  qu'il  n'y  avait  eu  que  du  pain 
de  munition  et  quelques  tranches  de  jambon  fume  sur  la  table ,  Dietrich  regarda 
de  Lisle  avec  une  serenite  triste  et  lui  dit  :  «  L'abondance  manque  a  nos  festins  , 
<(  mais  qu'importe ,  si  l'enthousiasme  ne  manque  pas  a  nos  fetes  civiques  et  le  courage 
«  aux  cceurs  de  nos  soldats?  J'ai  encore  une  derniere  bouteille  de  vin  du  Rhin  dans 
«  mon  cellier.  Qu'on  l'apporte,  dit-il,  et  buvons-la  a  la  liberie  et  a  la  patrie! 
«  Strasbourg  doit  avoir  bientdt  une  ceremonie  patriotique.     II   faut  que  de  Lisle 


—  19  — 
remains  of  Royalty.  Their  entry  into  villages  and  towns  was  under  triumphal  arches. 
They  sang,  as  they  went  along,  stanzas  of  (he  sternest  kind.  The  couplets,  alternated 
by  the  measured  fall  of  their  feet  upon  the  road  and  by  the  rolling  of  the  drums, 
resembled  the  palriotic  choruses  of  war,  responding,  at  equal  intervals,  to  the  clashing 
of  arms  and  the  instruments  of  death  ,  when  men  go  forth  to  battle.  Behold  the  song 
in  question ,  engraven ,  as  it  is  ,  on  the  heart  of  France.  » 

«  Like  those  consecrated  banners ,  suspended  to  the  arches  of  a  shrine ,  and 
which  are  only  taken  out  on  particular  occasions,  the  national  song,  as  it  were, 
is  reserved  for  a  weapon  of  ultimate  resort  against  the  grand  necessities  of  the 
country.  Our's  received  the  impress  of  circumstances,  which  gave  it  a  character  apart, 
that  renders  it  at  once  more  solemn  and  more  sinister  :  glory  and  crime,  victory 
and  death ,  seem  to  be  the  tissue  of  it.  If  it  was  the  hymn  of  patriotism ,  it  was  the 
malison  of  civil  rage  as  well.  It  conducted  our  troops  to  the  frontier,  but  it  accom- 
panied our  victims  to  the  scaffold.  The  same  steel ,  in  short ,  is  the  safeguard  of 
France  in  the  hand  of  the  soldier  and  her  butcher  in  the  hands  of  the  executioner. 

(i  The  chant  of  glory  and  the  cry  of  death  ,  «  La  Marseillaise  »  is  resonant  of  both. 
Triumphant  as  the  one ,  funereal  as  the  other,  it  flushes  France  with  confidence,  and 
turns  her  Frenchmen  pale.     Its  origin  is  as  follows. 

« There  was,  at  that  period,  a  young  artillery-officer  in  the  garrison  of  Strasbourg, 
whose  name  was  Rouget  de  Lisle,  a  native  of  Lons-le-Saunier,  in  the  Jura,  —  a 
country  of  reverie  and  energy,  as  mountainous  ones  invariably  are.  As  a  soldier,  he 
was  fond  of  war:  as  a  thinker,  he  hailed  the  Revolution.  The  tedium  of  a  garrison- 
life  he  beguiled  with  music  and  with  verse.  In  high  request  for  his  two-fold  talent  of 
poet  and  composer,  he  was  intimate  with  the  family  of  Baron  Dietrich ,  an  Alsacian  of 
birth ,  a  constitutionnel  in  politics ,  a  friend  of  La  Fayette ,  and  mayor  of  Strasbourg. 
His  lady  and  her  young  associates  participated  in  the  zeal,  which  sprang  of  patriotism 
and  the  Revolution, — a  zeal,  more  especially  felt  at  the  frontiers,  just  as,  in  a  moment 
of  bodily  excitement,  the  extremities  are  more  sensibly  affected.  They  were  partial  to 
the  young  officer,  and  inspired  his  heart,  his  music,  and  his  poetry.  The  confidantes 
of  the  lispings  of  his  genius,  they  were  the  earliest  interpreters  of  his  thought,  though, 
as  yet ,  it  had  scarcely  found  an  utterance. 

«  This  was  in  the  winter  of  1792.  A  dearth  was  prevalent  at  Strasbourg.  The  house 
of  Dietrich,  wealthy  at  the  outbreak  of  the  Revolution,  but  drained  by  the  sacrifices, 
necessitated  by  the  calamity  of  the  times,  was  become  poor.  Nevertheless,  its  frugal 
table  was  open  to  de  Lisle.  Morn  and  eve,  like  a  son  or  a  brother  of  the  family,  there 
was  his  accustomed  seat.  On  one  occasion ,  when  their  supper  had  consisted  of 
common  household  bread  and  a  few  slices  of  smoked  ham ,  Dietrich  regarded  his  guest 
with  a  sad  serenity  and  said  :  «  Abundance,  indeed,  is  wanting  to  our  board,  but  what 
((Signifies,  so  that  enthusiasm  abound  at  our  civic  fetes,  and  courage  in  the  heart 
<(  of  our  troops?  There  is  still  in  my  cellar  a  bottle  of  good  old  Rhenish  wine, — the 
«last  I  have.  It  shall  be  brought,  and  we  will  drink  to  Liberty  and  our  Native 
<(  Country.    A  patriotic  meeting  will  soon  be  held  at  Strasbourg.    May  those  remaining 


—  20  — 
«  puise ,  dans  ces  dernieres  gouttes ,  un  de  ces  hymnes  qui  portent  dans  Tame  du" 
«  peuple  I'ivresse  d'oii  il  a  jailli.»  Les  jeunes  femmes  applaudirent ,  apporterent  le 
vin,  remplirent  les  verres  de  Dietrich  et  du  jeune  officier  jusqu'a  ce  que  la  liqueur 
fut  epuisee.  11  elait  tard.  La  nuit  etait  froide.  De  Lisle  etait  reveur;  son  coeur  etait 
emu ,  sa  tete  echauffee.  Le  froid  le  saisit ,  il  rentra  chancelant  dans  sa  chambre 
solitaire,  cherchant  lentement  l'inspiration  tantot  dans  les  palpitations  de  son  ame 
de  ciloyen ,  tantot  sur  le  clavier  de  son  instrument  d'artiste ,  composant  tantot  1'air 
avant  les  paroles,  tantdt  les  paroles  avant  l'air,  et  les  associant  tellement  dans  la 
pensee  qu'il  ne  pouvait  savoir  lui-meme  lequel  de  la  note  ou  du  vers  etait  ne  le  premier 
et  qu'il  etait  impossible  de  separer  la  poesie  de  la  musique  et  le  sentiment  de  l'ex-f 
pression.     11  chantait  tout  et  n'ecrivait  rien. 

«  Accable  de  cette  inspiration  sublime  ,  il  s'endormit  la  tete  sur  son  instrument 
et  ne  se  reveilla  qu'au  jour.  Les  chants  de  la  nuit  lui  remonterent  avec  peine  dans  la 
memoire  comme  les  impressions  d'un  reve.  II  les  ecrivit,  les  nota ,  et  courut  chi'z 
Dietrich.  11  le  trouva  dans  son  jardin  bechant  de  ses  propres  mains  des  laitues  d'hiver. 
La  femme  du  maire  patriote  n'etait  pas  encore  levee.  Dietrich  l'eveilla,  il  appela 
quelques  amis,  tous  passionnes  comme  lui  pour  la  musique  et  capables  d'executer 
la  composition  de  de  Lisle.  Une  des  jeunes  Miles  accompagnait.  Rouget  chanta. 
A  la  premiere  strophe  les  visages  palirent ,  a  la  seconde  les  larmes  coulerent ,  aux 
dernieres  le  delire  de  l'enthousiasme  eclata.  Dietrich,  sa  femme,  le  jeune  officier 
se  jeterent  en  pleurant  dans  les  bras  les  uns  des  autres.  L'hymne  de  la  patrie  etait 
trouve !  Helas  !  il  devait  etre  aussi  l'hymne  de  la  terreur.  L'infortune  Dietrich 
marcha  peu  de  mois  apres  a  l'echafaud ,  aux  sons  de  ces  notes  nees  a  son  foyer  du 
cceur  de  son  ami  et  de  la  voix  de  sa  femme. 


« Le  noirveau  chant ,  execute  quelques  jours  apres  a  Strasbourg  ,  vola  de  ville 
en  ville  sur  tous  les  orchestres  populaires  :  Marseille  l'adopta  pour  etre  chante  au 
commencement  et  a  la  fin  des  seances  de  ses  clubs.  Les  Marseillais  le  re'pandirent 
en  France  en  le  chantant  sur  leur  route.    De  la  lui  vint  le  nom  de  Marseillaise.  » 

Livre  16.  Sections  26,  28,  29  et  30. 

LA    CHAPELLE   DES   TUILER1ES. 

«  Madame  Elisabeth  recevait  les  confidences  des  deux  epoux  et  les  caresses  des 
enfans.  Sa  foi  plus  soumise  que  celle  de  la  Reine ,  plus  tendre  que  celle  du  Roi , 
faisait  de  sa  vie  un  continuel  holocauste.  Elle  ne  trouvait,  ainsi  que  son  frere,  de 
consolation  qu'au  pied  des  autels.  Elle  y  prosternait  tous  les  matins  sa  resignation. 
La  chapelle  du  chateau  etait  le  refuge  oil  la  famille  royale  s'abritait  contre  tant  de 
douleurs.  Mais  la  encore  la  haine  de  ses  ennemis  la  poursuivait.  Un  des  pre- 
miers dimanches  de  Juillet ,  des  soldats  de  la  garde  nationale ,  qui  remplissaient  la 
galerie  par  ou  le  Roi  allait  entendre  la  messe,  crierent  :  «Plus  de  roi!  a  bas  le 


—  21   — 

«  drops,  de  Lisle,  inspirit  you  to  one  of  those  stirring  hymns,  that  impart  to  the 
«  common  soul  of  a  people  the  warmth,— the  fervour, — the  ivresse ,  to  which  they 
« are  indebted  for  their  rise!».  —  The  ladies  applauded  the  idea,  the  hock  was 
brought,  and  the  glasses  of  Dietrich  and  his  guest  were  filled  ,  till  the  wine  was  gone. 
It  was  late.  The  night  was  cold.  De  Lisle  was  a  dreamer;  his  soul  was  agitated  j 
his  brain  excited.  The  cold  seized  him.  He  tottered  as  he  reached  his  solitary  room, 
where  he  sought  the  inspiration,  (which  was  loth  to  come  at  first,)  now,  as  an  ardent 
citizen,  in  the  beatings  of  his  heart,  now,  as  a  double  artist,  on  the  chords  of  his 
violin,  composing  anon  the  air  before  the  words,  anon  the  words  before  the  air,  and 
blending  them  so  nicely  with  the  thought,  that  he  himself  was  unable  to  tell  the  order 
of  his  work ,  it  being  impossible  to  separate  the  music  from  the  poetry  and  the 
expression  from  the  sentiment.     He  sang  every  thing,  and  wrote  nothing. 

«  Overpowered  by  such  an  inspiration ,  he  fell  asleep,  with  his  head  upon  the  in- 
strument ,  and  so  he  slept  till  day.  The  strains  of  the  night  came  back  upon  him 
slowly,  like  the  features  of  a  dream.  He  wrote  them  out,— he  noted  them  down,— 
and  ran  with  thum  to  Dietrich's.  He  found  him  in  his  garden,  digging  up,  with  his 
proper  hands,  some  winter-lettuces.  The  wife  of  the  patriotic  mayor  was  still  in 
bed.  Her  husband  woke  her,  and  sent  for  some  of  his  friends  ,  all,  like  himself, 
passionately  fond  of  music  and  capable  of  executing  the  composition  of  De  Lisle. 
One  of  the  young  ladies  accompanied.  The  author  sang.  At  the  first  strophe,  they 
turned  pule  with  emotion ;  at  the  second ,  they  shed  tears  ;  at  the  others ,  the  phrenzy 
of  enthusiasm  burst  forth.  Dietrich,  his  lady,  and  the  young  officer  wept  in  concert, 
as  they  mutually  embraced.  The  national  hymn  was  found !  Alas !  in  the  Reign 
of  Terror,  how  soon  was  it  to  be  the  hymn  of  death !  A  few  short  months ,  and 
the  unhappy  Dietrich  marched  to  the  scaffold  ,  which  welcomed  him  with  the  sounds 
of  those  identical  notes,  that  had  emanated,  at  his  own  hearth,  from  the  heart  of  his 
friend  and  the  voice  of  his  wife  ! 

«The  new  composition,  performed  a  few  days  afterwards  at  Strasbourg,  flew  from 
town  to  town  and  from  orchestra  to  orchestra.  Marseilles  adopted  it  to  give  weight 
to  her  sessions  at  the  opening  and  the  closing  of  her  clubs.  The  Marseillais  pro- 
mulgated it  in  France  by  singing  it  on  their  route  to  Paris;  and  thence  its  name 
of  «  La  Marseillaise.  » 

Book  16.  Sections  26,  28,  29  et  30. 

THE  CHAPEL  OF  THE  TUILLER1ES. 

<(  On  Madame  Elizabeth  it  was,  that  the  wedded  pair  bestowed  their  confidence,  the 
children  their  caresses.  With  a  faith  more  humble  than  the  queen's,  more  tender 
than  the  king's,  her  life  was  one  continued  holocaust.  In  common  with  her  brother, 
she  found  her  only  solace  at  the  foot  of  the  altar,  and  there,  at  morn,  her  daily  resign- 
ation knelt.  The  refuge  of  the  royal  family  was  the  chapel  of  the  Chateau ,  which 
promised  them  a  harbour  from  so  many  ills.  But  the  hatred  of  their  enemies  pursued 
them  even  there.  On  a  Sunday,  early  in  July,  some  soldiers  of  the  national  guard  , 
stationed  in  the  corridor,  which  was  traversed  by  the  monarch  on  his  way  to  mass , 


—  22  — 

*  veto ! »  Le  Roi ,  accoutume  aux  outrages ,  entendit  ces  cris ,  vit  ces  gestes  sans 
s'etonner.  Mais  a  peine  la  famille  royale  etait-elle  agenouillee  dans  sa  tribune  que 
les  musiciens  de  la  chapelle  firent  eclater  les  airs  revolutionnaires  de  la  Marseillaise 
et  du  Qa  ira!!!» 

Liv.  19.  Sect.  10. 

MASSACRE   DES  GARDES  SUISSES. 

«Les  Suisses,  qui  avaient  occasionne  ce  mouvement,  etaient  des  officiers  de  l'escorte 
du  Roi ,  cherchant  un  refuge  dans  l'enceinte  pour  eviter  le  feu  des  bataillons  de  la 
terrasse  des  Feuillants.  On  les  fit  entrer  dans  la  cour  du  Manege,  et  on  les  desarma 
par  l'ordre  du  Roi. 

«Pendant  cette  scene,  M.  d'Hervilly  parvenait  au  chateau  a  travers  les  balles,  au 
moment  oil  la  colonne  de  M.  de  Salis  y  rentrait  avec  les  canons.  «  Messieurs ,  »  leur 
cria-t-il  du  haut  de  la  terrasse  du  jardin  d'aussi  loin  que  sa  voix  put  etre  entendue, 
« le  Roi  vous  ordonne  de  vous  rendre  tons  a  V Assemblee  nationale.  »  II  ajouta  de 
lui-meme,  et  dans  une  derniere  pensee  de  prevoyance  pour  le  Roi :  nAvec  vos  canons !» 

«  A  cet  ordre,  M.  de  Durler  rassemble  environ  deux  cents  de  ses  soldats,  fait  rouler 
un  canon  du  vestibule  dans  le  jardin  ,  essaie  en  vain  de  le  decharger,  et  se  met  en 
marche  vers  l'Assemblee ,  sans  que  les  autres  postes  de  l'interieur,  prevenus  de  cette 
retraite,  eussent  le  temps  de  le  suivre.  Cette  colonne,  criblee  en  route  par  les  balles 
de  la  garde  nationale,  arrive  en  desordre  et  mutilee  a  la  porte  du  Manege;  elle 
est  introduite  dans  les  murs  de  l'Assemblee  et  met  bas  les  armes.  Les  Marseillais , 
informes  de  la  retraite  d'une  partie  des  Suisses,  et  temoins  de  la  defection  de  la 
gendarmerie,  marchent  une  seconde  fois  en  avant;  les  masses  des  faubourgs  Saint- 
Marceau  et  Saint-Antoine  inondent  les  cours.  Westermann  et  Santerre ,  le  sabre  a 
la  main ,  leur  montrent  le  grand  escalier  et  les  poussent  a  l'assaut  au  chant  de  Qa 

ira la  vue  de  leurs  camarades  morts,  couches  sur  le  Carrousel,  les  enivre  de 

vengeance ;  les  Suisses  ne  sont  plus  a  leurs  yeux  que  des  assassins  soldes.  lis  se 
jurent  entre  eux  de  laver  ces  paves ,  ce  palais  dans  le  sang  de  ces  etrangers. » 


Liv.  22.  Sect.  15. 

«  L'Assemblee  Legislative  avait  decrete  la  peine  de  mort  contre  les  emigres  qui  rentreraient ,  la 
«  deportation  des  pretres  qui  auraient  refuse  de  prefer  serment  a  la  constitution  civile  du  clerge ,  et , 
«  enQn ,  la  formation  d'un  camp  de  vingt  mille  hommes  dans  les  environs  de  Paris.  Le  Roi  crut 
a  devoir  apposer  son  veto  a  ces  decrets ,  et  meme  renvoyer  ceux  de  ses  ministres  qui  lui  conseillaient 
(i  de  donner  sa  sanction.  Les  novateurs ,  dont  le  nombre  et  l'audace  croissaieut  de  jour  en  jour,  r6- 
v  solurent  de  le  forcer  a  cette  mesure.  Le  20  juin  environ  trente  mille  hommes ,  arm£s  de  piques , 
<(  de  baches ,  de  fusils ,  se  rendent  au  chateau  des  Tuileries ,  et  lui  demandent  avec  menaces  cette 
«  sanction  que  sa  conscience  et  sa  dignite  repoussaient.  lis  allerent  meme  jusqu'a  lui  presenter  un 
i  bonnet  rouge ,  devenu  le  signe  do  la  liberte ;  et  sans  la  courageuse  contenance  de  ce  monarque ,  e'ea 
«  etait  fait  ce  jour-la  de  sa  personne  et  de  sa  famille. 

Abrege  de  l'Histoire  de  France. 


—  23  — 
shouted  as  he  passed  :  «  Doiun  with  Royalty !  down  with  the  *  veto !  »     The  king , 
inured  to  insult,  heard  all  and  saw  all  without  a  shadow  of  surprise;  but  scarcely  were 
the  royal  family  a-kneeling  in  their  pew.  when  the  musicians  of  the  chapel  struck  up 
the  revolutionary  airs, —  v.  La  Marseillaise »  and  «fa  train 

Book  19.  Section  10. 

MASSACRE   OF   THE   SWISS   GUARD. 

«The  Swiss,  who  had  occasioned  this  movement,  were  some  officers  of  the  royal 
(jscort,  seeking  an  asylum  in  the  close,  to  avoid  the  fusillade  of  the  battalions,  that 
were  firing  on  them  from  the  terrace  of  the  Feuillants.  They  were  constrained  to  enter 
tbe  court  of  the  Riding-School;  and  there  they  were  disarmed  by  order  of  the  king. 

« In  the  meanwhile,  M.  d'Hervilly,  exposed  to  the  bullets  as  he  went  along,  had 
reached  the  Chateau  just  as  the  detachment  of  M.  de  Salis  was  coming  up  with  the  can- 
non ,  to  enter  it  anew,  a  Messieurs, »  cried  he  from  the  top  of  the  garden-terrace,  and 
as  far  off  as  his  voice  could  be  heard  ,  «  his  Majesty  commands  you  ,  one  and  all ,  to 
«  repair  to  the  National  Assembly.  »  He  took  upon  himself  to  add,  with  a  last  thought 
of  consideration  for  the  king  :  «  With  your  cannon ! » 

((Whereupon  M.  de  Durler  musters  about  two  hundred  of  his  men  ,  bids  them  run  a 
piece  of  ordnance  from  the  portico  to  the  garden,  attempts  in  vain  to  discharge  it,  and 
begins  marching  towards  the  Assembly,  without  allowing  time  to  the  other  posts  of  the 
interior  to  know  of  his  retreat,  and  follow  him  accordingly.  The  detachment  in  ques- 
tion ,  riddled  on  its  way  by  the  balls  of  the  national  guard ,  reaches  the  gate  of  the 
Riding-School  in  confusion  and  distress  :  admitted  within  the  walls  of  the  Assembly, 
it  surrenders  up  its  arms  at  once.  The  Marseillais ,  apprized  of  the  retreat  of  a  portion 
of  the  Swiss  and  witness  to  the  desertion  of  the  gendarmerie ,  advance  a  second  time , 
while  the  masses  of  the  faubourgs  St.  Marceau  and  St.  Antoine  are  delug'ng  the  courts. 
Westermann  and  Santerre ,  sword  in  hand  ,  show  them  the  grand  staircase ,  and  spirit 
them  to  slaughter  to  the  sounds  of  uCa  ira!...v  The  sight  of  their  companions, 
lying  dead  on  the  Carrousel,  intoxicates  them,  as  it  were,  with  a  feeling  of  revenge  : 
the  Swiss  are  nothing  now  but  mercenary  cut-throats.  They  swear  among  themselves, 
that  these  steps— that  these  floors— that  this  palace — shall  be  streaming  with  the  blood 
of  those  sanguinary  foreigners.  » 

Book  22.  Section  15. 

-*  «  The  Legislative  Assembly  had  decreed  the  pain  of  death  against  -whatever  emigres  should  reenter 
«  France,  the  banishment  of  whatever  priests  might  have  stood  out  against  the  civil  constitution  of 
«  the  clergy,  and,  lastly,  the  formation  of  a  camp  of  20,000  men  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Paris.  The 
'i  king  conceived  it  right — his  royal  duty — to  put  his  veto  on  these  insolent  decrees,  and  even  to 
«  dismiss ,  from  among  his  ministers ,  such  as  recommended  him  to  sanction  them.  The  innovators  , 
*  whose  number  and  audacity  increased  from  day  to  day,  determined  to  compel  him.  On  the  20lh  of 
«  June ,  about  30,000  men ,  armed  with  pikes ,  batches  ,  guns ,  proceed  to  the  Chateau ,  and  demand 
«  of  him  with  menaces  what  his  conscience  and  his  dignity  alike  repulse.  They  went  so  far  even  as 
«  to  offer  him  a  «  bonnet  rouge ,  »  the  cap  of  liberty ;  and ,  saving  for  the  dauntless  bearing  of  the 
«  monarch ,  that  very  day  would  have  seen  an  end  to  his  family  and  him.  » 

Abridged  History  of  France. 


—  24  — 

MASSACRE   DE  SEPTEMBRE. 

«Deux  cent  vingt  cadavres  au  Grand-Chatelet ,  deux  cent  quatre-vingt-neuf  a  la 
Conciergerie  furent  depeces  par  les  travailleurs.  Les  assassins ,  trop  peu  nombreux 
pour  tant  d'ouvrage,  delivrerent  les  detenus  pour" vol,  a  la  condition  de  se  joindre 
a  eux.  Ces  homines,  rachetant  leur  vie  par  le  crime,  immolaient  leurs  compagnons 
de  captivity.  Plus  de  la  moiiie  des  prisonniers  peril  sous  les  coups  de  l'autre.  Un 
jeune  armuiier  de  la  rue  Saint-Avoie,  detenu  pour  une  cause  legere,  et  remarquable 
par  sa  stature  et  sa  force,  reciit  ainsi  la  liberte  a  la  charge  de  preter  ses  bras  aux 
assommeurs.  L'amour  instinclif  de  la  vie  la  lui  fit  accepter  a  ce  prix.  II  porta  en 
hesitant  quelques  coups  mal  assures.  Mais,  bientot  revenant  a  lui,  a  la  vue  du 
sang,  et  rejetant  avec  horreur  l'instrument  de  meurtre  qu'on  avait  mis  dans  sa 
main  :  «  Non  ,  non ,  »  s'ecrie-t-il ,  «  plutOt  victime  que  bourreau !  J'aime  mieux 
«recevoir  la  mort  de  la  main  de  scelerats  comme  vous  que  de  la  donner  a  des 
« innocents  desarmes.  Frappez-moi !  »  II  tombe  et  lave  volontairement  de  son  sang 
le  sang  qu'il  vient  de  repandre. 

«  D'Epremesnil ,  reconnu  et  favorise  par  un  garde  national  de  Bordeaux ,  fut  le  seul 
detenu  qui  echappa  au  massacre  du  Chatelet.  11  s'evada,  un  sabre  teint  de  sang  a  la 
main,  sous  le  costume  d'un  egorgeur.  La  nuit,  le  desordre,  l'ivresse  firent  confondre 
le  fugitif  avec  ses  assassins.  II  enfonca  jusqu'aux  chevilles  dans  la  fange  rouge  de 
cette  boucherie.  Arrive  a  la  fontaine  Maubue,  il  passa  plus  d'une  heure  a  laver 
sa  chaussure  et  ses  habits  pour  ne  pas  glacer  d'eflroi  les  hdtes  auxquels  il  allait 
demander  asile. 

«Dans  cette  prison  on  anticipa  le  supplice  de  plusieurs  accuses  ou  condamne's  a 
mort  pour  crimes  civils.  De  ce  nombre  fut  l'abbe  Bordi,  prevenu  d'assassinat  sur 
son  propre  frere.  Homme  d'une  taille  surnaturelle  et  d'une  sauvage  energie ,  il  lutta 
pendant  une  demi-heure  contre  ses  bourreaux  et  en  etouffa  deux  sous  ses  genoux. 

«  Une  jeune  fille,  d'une  admirable  beaute,  connue  sous  le  nom  de  la  Belle  Bou- 
quelicre ,  accusee  d'avoir  blesse,  dans  un  acces  de  jalousie,  un  sous-offlcier  des 
gardes-francaises ,  son  amant,  devait  etre  jugee  sous  peu  de  jours.  Les  assassins, 
parmi  lesquels  se  trouvaient  des  vengeurs  de  sa  victime  et  des  instigateurs  animes 
par  sa  rivale,  devancerent  l'office  du  bourreau.  *  Theroigne  de  Mericourt  preta  son 
genie  a  ce  supplice.  Attachee  nue  a  un  poteau  ,  les  jambes  ecartees,  les  pieds  cloues 
au  sol ,  on  brula  avec  des  torches  de  paille  enflammee  le  corps  de  la  victime.  On 
lui  coupa  les  seins  a  coup  de  sabre ;  on  fit  rougir  des  fers  de  piques ,  qu'on  lui 
enfonca  dans  les  chairs.  Empalee  enfln  sur  ces  fers  rouges,  ses  cris  traversaient 
la  Seine  et  allaient  frapper  d'horreur  les  habitants  de  la  rive  opposee.  Une  cin- 
quantaine  de  femmes  delivrees  de  la  Conciergerie  par  les  tueurs  preterent  leurs  mains 
a  ces  supplices  et  surpasserent  les  hommes  en  ferocite. 

"  Pour  une  notice  de  cette  malheureuse  femme ,  voyez  l'appendice.] 


—  25  — 

MASSACRE   OF   SEPTEMBER. 

«  Two  hundred  and  twenty  corpses  at  the  Grand  Chatelet ,  two  hundred  and  forty- 
nine  at  the  Conciergerie ,  were  cut  in  pieces  by  the  Travailleurs.  The  assassins , 
unequal  of  themselves  to  such  wholesale  work ,  set  the  minor  felons  free ,  on  condition 
of  their  lending  them  their  aid.  The  latter,  ransoming  their  lives  with  crime,  im- 
molated their  companions  in  captivity.  More  than  one  half  of  the  prisoners  were 
sacrificed  by  the  other.  And  thus  it  was,  that  a  young  gunsmith  of  la  rue  St.  Avoie, 
confined  for  some  trivial  misdemeanor,  and  remarkable  for  his  size  and  strength , 
was  liberated  at  the  cost  (which  the  instinctive  love  of  life  had  induced  him  to  agree 
to)  of  turning  carnifex  and  abetting  butchery.  He  dealt  with  hesitation  a  few  inef- 
ficient blows ,  but ,  speedily  coming  to  himself  at  the  dreadful  nature  of  his  compact , 
and  throwing  away  the  murderous  weapon,  which  had  been  committed  to  his  hand: 
uNo,  no,f>  he  cried,  abetter  be  a  victim  than  an  executioner!  Better  to  be  killed  by 
«  criminals  like  you  than  kill  the  defenceless  and  the  innocent.  Strike ! »  A  moment 
more,  and  his  blood  ( a  willing  forfeit)  was  flowing  with  the  blood  he  just  had  shed ! 

«  D'Epre'mesnil ,  recognized  and  favoured  by  a  national  guard  of  Bordeaux  ,  was  the 
only  prisoner,  who  survived  the  massacre  at  the  Chatelet.  Waving  in  his  hand  a 
dripping  sword,  he  effected  his  escape  as  a  member  of  the  gang.  The  night,  the 
disorder,  the  intoxication ,  combined  to  confound  the  bravo  and  the  fugitive.  He 
waded,  ancle-deep,  through  the  crimson  mire  of  that  appalling  butchery.  Arrived  at 
the  fountain  Maubue,  it  took  him  a  long  hour  to  wash  his  shoes,  his  stockings,  and 
his  clothes ,  the  sight  of  which ,  of  course ,  would  have  terrified  the  friends ,  to  whom 
he  purposed  to  address  himself. 

« In  the  aforesaid  prison ,  many  individuals ,  either  accused  or  capitally  convicted  of 
civil  crimes ,  were  capitally  punished ,  but  abruptly,  and  without  the  sanction  of  the 
law.  Of  that  number  was  the  abbe  Bordi, — he,  who  stood  charged  with  the  murder  of 
his  own  brother.  Unnaturally  tall  and  ferociously  brave,  he  struggled  half-an-hour 
with  his  executioners ,  and  stifled  two  of  them  beneath  his  knees ! 

«  A  young  girl  of  exquisite  beauty,  and  known  as  «  La  Belle  Bouquetiere ,  »  accused 
of  having  stabbed  her  lover  (a  non-commissioned  officer  of  the  French  guard )  in  a  fit 
of  jealousy,  was  to  be  tried  in  a  few  days'  time.  The  assassins, — some  of  whom,  it 
seems,  were  the  avengers  of  her  victim,  and  some,  again,  the  creatures  of  her  rival, 
— took  upon  themselves  to  play  the  executioner.  *  Theroigne  de  Mericourt  contributed 
her  talents  to  the  refined  torture — the  atrocious  details— of  her  death.  Completely  strip- 
ped ,  and  fastened  to  a  stake, — her  legs  apart  and  her  feet  nailed  to  the  ground , — they 
burnt  the  body  of  their  victim  with  lumps  of  lighted  straw.  They  cut  her  breasts  off 
with  a  sword ;  they  made  their  iron  pikes  red-hot ,  and  thrust  them  in  her  flesh.  Im- 
paled at  last  upon  the  glowing  metal ,  her  shrieks  were  borne  across  the  Seine ,  and 
horrified  the  dwellers  on  the  other  bank.  Fifty  females,  set  free  from  the  Conciergerie 
by  the  bravos ,  assisted  at  these  hellish  deeds ,  and  surpassed  the  men  in  ferocity. 

!  For  an  account  of  this  unhappy  woman  see  the  appendix. 


—  26  — 

«  Le  dernier  guichet ,  qui  ouvrait  sur  la  cour,  avait  ete  transform^  en  tribunal. 
Autour  d'une  vaste  table,  couverte  de  papiers,  d'ecritoires,  de  livres  d'ecrou  de  la 
prison ,  de  verres ,  de  bouteilles ,  de  pistolets ,  de  sabres ,  de  pipes ,  etaient  assis- 
sur  des  bancs  douze  juges  aux  figures  ternes,  aux  epaules  athletiques ,  caractere 
des  hommes  de  peine,  de  debauche  ou  de  sang.  Leur  costume  etait  celui  des 
professions  laborieuses  du  peuple  :  des  bonnets  de  laine  sur  la  tete ,  des  vestes ,  des 
souliers  ferres  ,  des  tabliers  de  toiles  comme  ceux  des  bouchers.  Quelques-uns 
avaient  ote  leurs  habits.  Les  manches  de  leur  chemise,  retroussee  jusqu'aux  coudes, 
laissaient  voir  des  bras  musculeux  et  une  peau  tatouee  des  symboles  de  divers  metiers. 
Deux  ou  trois  aux  formes  plus  greles,  aux.  mains  plus  blanches,  a  l'expression  de 
figure  plus  intellectuelle ,  irahissaient  des  hommes  de  pensee ,  meles  a  dessein  a 
ces  hommes  d'action  pour  les  diriger.  Un  homme  en  habit  gris ,  le  sabre  au  cote , 
la  plume  a  la  main,  d'une  physionomie  inflexible  et  comme  petrifiee,  etait  assis 
au  centre  de  la  table,  et  presidait  ce  tribunal.  C'etait  l'huissier  Maillard ,  l'idole 
des  rassemblemens  du  faubourg  Saint-Marceau ,  un  de  ces  hommes ,  que  produit 
1'ecume  du  peuple  et  derriere  lesquels  elle  se  range  parce  qu'elle  ne  peut  pas  les 

depasser Ce  tribunal  avait  l'arbitraire  du  peuple  pour  loi.     On  lisait  1'ecrou; 

les  guichetiers  allaient  chercher  le  prisonnier.  Maillard  l'interrogeait  •,  il  consultait 
de  l'ceil  l'opinion  de  ses  collegues.  Si  le  prisonnier  etait  absous,  Maillard  disait  : 
(i  Qu'on  elargisse  Monsieur.  »  S'il  dtait  condamne,  une  voix  disait :  v.  A  la  Forcel* 
La  porte  exterieure  s'ouvrait  a  ces  mots;  le  prisonnier,  entraine  hors  du  seuil,  tombait 
en  sortant". 


«  Apres  les  Suisses,  on  jugea  en  masse  tous  les  gardes  du  roi  1  emprisonnes  k 
FAbbaye.  Leur  crime  etait  leur  fidelite  au  10  aout.  II  n'y  avait  pas  de  proces. 
C'etaient  des  vaincus.  On  se  borna  a  leur  demander  leurs  noms.  Livres  un  a  un , 
leur  massacre  fut  long;  le  peuple,  dont  le  vin,  l'eau-de-vie  mele"e  de  poudre,  la 
vue  et  I'odeur  du  sang  semblaient  raffiner  la  rage ,  faisait  durer  le  supplice  comme 
s'il  eiit  craint  d'abreger  le  spectacle.  La  nuit  entiere  suffit  a  peine  a  les  immoler 
et  a  les  depouiller. 


«  L'abbe  Sicard  et  les  deux  pretres  refugies  comme  lui  dans  une  petite  chambre 
altenante  au  comite,  virent,  entendirent  et  noterent  toutes  les  minutes  de  cette  nuit. 
Une  vieille  porte  percee  de  fentes  les  separait  de  la  scene  du  massacre.  lis  distin- 
guaient  le  bruit  des  pas ,  les  coups  de  sabre  sur  les  tetes ,  la  chute  des  corps ,  les 
hurlemens  des  bourreaux,  les  applaudissemens  de  la  populace,  les  voix  meme  des 
amis ,  qu'ils  venaient  de  quitter,  et  les  danses  atroces  des  femmes  et  des  enfans , 
aux  lueurs  des  flambeaux  et  au  chant  de  la  *  Carmagnole ,  autour  des  cadavres. 
De  moment  en  moment  des  deputations  d'egorgeurs  venaient  demander  du  vin  au 
comite,  qui  leur  en  faisait  distribuer.  Des  femmes  apporterent  a  manger  a  leurs  maris 
au  lever  du  jour,  pour  les  soutenir,  disaient-elles ,  dans  leur  rude  travail ;  manoeuvres 

*  Voyez  l'appendice. 


—  27  — 

«The  last  cell,  which  opened  on  the  court,  had  been  turned  into  a  hall-of-justice, 
where,  about  a  spacious  table,  strown  with  papers,  inkstands,  prison-registers,  glasses, 
bottles,  pistols,  swords  and  pikes,  a  dozen  judges  were  seated  upon  forms,  with 
gloomy  looks  and  broad  shoulders,  such  as  designate  your  men  of  hard,  debauched, 
or  sanguinary  life.  Their  habiliments  were  those  of  the  lower  orders,— woollen  caps, 
jackets,  hob-nailed  shoes,  and  linen  aprons,  such  as  butchers  wear.  Some  of  them 
had  thrown  their  jackets  off.  Their  shirt-sleeves,  tucked  up  to  the  elbow,  exposed 
their  brawny  arms  and  dark  discoloured  skin,  commonly  tatooed  with  the  symbols  of 
their  trade.  Two  or  three,  of  slighter  build,  with  fairer  hands  and  a  keener  cast  of 
face,  were  evidently  men  of  thought,  who  associated  with  those  men  of  action,  to 
prompt  and  manage  them.  An  individual  in  a  grey  coat— a  sabre  at  his  side — pen  in 
hand — of  a  stern  and  stony  aspect— was  sitting  in  the  centre  of  the  table,  and  presided 
over  it.  \  This  was  the  bailiff,  Maillard,  the  idol  of  the  clubs  in  the  faubourg  of  Saint- 
Marceau,  and  one  of  those  determined  characters,  which,  emerging  from  the  canaille, 

continue  to  command  it,  because  it  cannot  go  beyond  them The  judges'  law 

was  the  people's  will.  The  prison-list  was  run  over,  and  the  jailer  fetched  the  prisoner. 
Maillard  examined  him,  and  then,  looking  at  his  colleagues,  read  the  verdict  in  their 
eyes.  If  he  was  acquitted,  Maillard  said  :  «Set  him  free; »  if  condemned,  a  voice 
exclaimed  :  <c  Take  him  to  la.  force  !  »  The  outer  door  was  opened ,  and  the  prisoner, 
dragged  from  the  sill ,  was  bleeding  on  the  stones !  » 


«  After  the  remaining  Swiss  had  perished,  the  remnant  of  the  royal  guard,  impri- 
soned in  the  Abbaye,  were  sentenced  at  a  swoop.  Their  crime  was  their  fidelity  on 
the  10n>  of  August.  There  was  no  trial  :  it  was  vm  victis !  They  were  told  to  give 
their  names;  and  nothing  more.  Consigned  to  execution  one  by  one,  their  massacre 
was  long  :  the  mob,  whose  fury,  as  it  were,  was  subtilized  by  wine  and  powder- 
mingled  brandy,  by  the  sight  and  smell  of  blood ,  directed  that  the  murders  should 
be  lengthened  out,  unwilling  and  afraid  that  the  spectacle  would  end.  The  night 
( so  many  were  the  victims ! )  could  barely  furnish  time  to  slaughter  and  to  strip 
them. 

«The  Abbe  Sicard  and  the  two  priests,  who  had  taken  refuge,  like  himself,  in  a 
small  chamber,  adjoining  the  Commitee,  beheld,  and  heard,  and  noted  all.  An  old 
door,  full  of  chinks ,  was  their  blind  and  separation  from  the  scene  of  massacre.  They 
distinguished  the  tread  of  feet,  the  sword-cuts  on  the  scull,  the  fall  of  bodies,  the 
yelling  of  the  bravos ,  the  applauses  of  the  populace ,  the  very  voices  of  their  friends , 
— the  friends  they  just  had  left!— and  the  diabolic  glee  of  the  women  and  the  children, 
as  they  danced  about  the  dead  by  the  flaring  of  the  torches ,  to  the  burden  of  the 
*  «  Carmagnole.  »  At  every  moment  was  a  message  from  the  shambles ,  asking  the 
Committee  for  more  wine ,  which  was  forwarded  accordingly.  At  the  peep  of  day,  the 
wives  were  there  with  the  breakfasts  of  their  husbands ,  to  fortify  them ,  as  they  said , 

*  See  the  appendix. 


—  28  — 
de  la  mort  abrutis  par  la  misere ,  l'ignorance  et  la  faim ,  pour  qui  tuer  etait  gagner 
sa  vie! 


«  Les  tombereaux  commandes  par  la  commune  viderent,  pendant  ce  repas ,  les 
cours  des  monceaux  de  cadavres,  qui  les  obstruaient.  L'eau  ne  suffisait  pas  a  laver. 
Les  pieds  glissaient  dans  le  sang.  Les  assassins ,  avant  de  reprendre  leur  ouvrage , 
etendirent  un  lit  de  paille  sur  line  partie  de  la  cour.  lis  couvrirent  cette  litiere 
des  veteniens  des  victimes.  lis  deciderent  entre  eux  de  ne  plus  tuer  que  sur  ce 
matelas  de  paille  et  de  laine,  pour  que  le  sang,  bu  par  les  habits,  ne  se  repandit 
plus  sur  les  paves.  Us  disposerent  des  bancs  autour  de  ce  theatre  pour  qu'au  retour 
de  la  lumiere  les  femmes  et  les  homines,  curieux  de  l'agonie,  pussent  assister  assis 
et  en  ordre  a  ce  spectacle.  lis  placerent  autour  du  preau  des  sentinelles  chargees  d'y 
faire  la  police  (!!!)  Au  point  du  jour  ces  bancs  trouverent  en  effet  des  femmes  et  des 
hommes  du  quartier  de  l'Abbaye  pour  spectateurs  et  ces  meurtres  des  applaudissemens! 
Pendant  ce  temps-la ,  Maillard  et  les  juges  prenaient  leur  repas  dans  le  guichet. 
Apres  avoir  fume  tranquillement  leurs  pipes,  ils  dormirent  sans  remords  sur  leurs 
bancs  de  juges,  et  reprirent  des  forces  pour  l'osuvre  du  lendemain.  » 


«Les  cinq  cent  soixante-quinze  cadavres  du  Chatelet  et  de  la  Conciergerie  furent 
empiles  en  montagnes  sur  le  Pont-au-Change.  La  nuit,  des  troupes  d'enfants, 
apprivoises  depuis  trois  jours  au  massacre,  et  dont  les  corps  morts  etaient  le  jouet, 
allumerent  des  lampions  au  bord  de  ces  monceaux  de  cadavres  ,  et  danserent  la 
carmagnole.  La  Marseillaise ,  chantee  en  choeur  par  des  voix  plus  males ,  retentissaif. 
aux  memes  heures  aux  abords  et  aux  portes  de  toutes  les  prisons.  Des  reverberes,  des 
lampions,  des  torches  de  resine  melaient  leurs  claries  blafardes  aux  lueurs  de  la 
lune  qui  eclairait  ces  piles  de  corps ,  ces  troncs  haches ,  ces  tetes  coupees ,  ces 
flaques  de  sang.  Pendant  cette  meme  nuit,  Hanriot,  escroc  et  espion  sous  les  rois, 
assassin  et  bourreau  sous  le  peuple,  a  la  tete  d'uue  bande  de  vingt  a  trente  hommes, 
dirigeait  et  executait  le  massacre  de  quatre-vingt-douze  pretres  au  seminaire  de 
Saint-Firmin.  Les  satellites  d'llanriot ,  poursuivant  les  pretres  dans  les  corridors 
et  dans  les  cellules  ,  les  lancaient  tout  vivants  par  les  fenetres  sur  une  herse  de 
piques ,  de  broches  et  de  ba'ionnettes  qui  les  percaient  dans  leur  chute.  Des  femmes  , 
a,  qui  les  egorgeurs  laissaient  cette  joie ,  les  achevaient  a  coups  de  biiche ,  et  les 
trainaient  dans  les  ruisseaux.    II  en  fut  de  meme  au  cloitre  des  Bernardins.  u 


<(  Des  deputations  de  sections  tenterent  de  penetrer  dans  la  prison  pour  reclamer 
des  citoyens.  Elles  furent  repoussees.  Un  poste  de  garde  nationale  occupait  la 
voiite  qui  conduit  de  la  place  de  l'Abbaye  dans  la  cour.  Ce  poste  avait  ordre  de 
laisser  entrer,  mais  de  ne  pas  laisser  ressortir.    On  eut  dit  qu'il  etait  place  la  pour 


—  29  — 

against  such  heavy  work ,— those  sweating  artisans ,  brutified  by  misery,  by  ignorance 
and  hunger,  whose  livelihood  was— death ,  and  whose  living  was  to — kill ! 

n  While  the  butchers  were  at  breakfast,  the  large  street-carts,  as  the  district  had 
arranged,  carried  off  the  corpses,  the  multitude  of  which  was  embarrassing  the  courts. 
The  water,  that  was  poured  upon  the  latter,  was  inadequate  to  wash  them  clean.  The 
foot  kept  slipping  in  the  gore.  The  assassins ,  therefore ,  before  they  recommenced , 
spread  upon  a  portion  of  the  yard  a  quantity  of  straw,  which,  in  turn,  they  covered 
with  the  uniforms,  (worn  so  recently!)  agreeing  among  themselves,  that  no  more 
victims  should  be  slain,  excepting  on  the  litter  in  question,  so  as  for  the  blood,  imbibed 
by  the  woollen  clothes ,  not  to  inundate  the  stones  afresh.  They  fitted  up  this  amphi- 
theatre with  seats,  in  order  that  the  male  and  female  amateurs  of  agony,  accommo- 
dated in  the  usual  mode,  might,  at  the  early  dawn,  witness,  at  their  ease,  the  horrors 
of  the  play.  And ,  to  carry  out  the  likeness ,  there  were  sentries  for  police ,  that  were 
stationed  in  the  area !!!  At  day-break ,  as  was  expected ,  the  forms  were  occupied  by 
men  and  women  from  the  purlieus  of  the  Abbaye,  who  came  to  see  and  came  to  cheer. 
In  the  interim ,  Maillard  and  the  judges  had  been  supping  in  the  prison ,  where,  when 
they  had  quietly  finished  their  pipes,  they  slept  without  remorse,  —  each  upon  his 
bench  , — recruiting  for  the  morrow-morn.  » 

«  The  five  hundred  and  seventy-five  corpses  from  the  Chatelet  and  Conciergerie ,  in 
many  mountain-heaps,  were  piled  upon  the  Pont-au-Change.  At  night,  multitudes 
of  children ,  who  were  inured  by  three  days'  initiation  to  massacre,  and  looked  upon  a 
carcase  as  a  plaything ,  lit  their  little  lamps  about  those  tumuli  of  dead ,  and  danced 
the  carmagnole !  «  La  Marseillaise ,  »  sung  in  chorus  by  voices  of  a  deeper  tone ,  was 
swelling  in  the  avenues/  and  pealing  at  the  doors  of  all  the  prisons.  The  lanterns,  and 
the  little  lamps,  and  the  flambeaux  were  flickering  together,  and  blended  their  un- 
certain flare  with  the  glimmer  of  the  moon  ,  which  shone  upon  those  human  mounds , 
— those  tree-like-treated  forms,— those  separated  limbs, — those  headless  trunks, — 
those  trunkless  heads, — those  gory  flakes, — those  horrid  clots  of  blood!  In  the  self- 
same night,  Hanriot, — the  rogue,  the  ruffian  Hanriot, — anon  the  spy  of  royalty,— anon 
the  sbirro  of  the  mob, — in  the  self-same  night,  I  say,  Hanriot,  with  some  five-and- 
twenty  followers,  planned  and  perpetrated  the  massacre  of  two-and-ninety  priests  in 
the  cloisters  of  St.  Firmin !  His  satellites ,  giving  chase  to  them  in  the  galleries  and 
cells,  hurled  them  ,  as  soon  as  caught,  from  the  windows  upon — what?— a  hedge  of  ■ 
halberds,  bayonets,  and  spits,  which  spiked  them  as  they  fell !  The  women,  to  whom 
the  murderers  had  allowed  that  perquisite  of  joy,  put  an  end  to  them  with  logs  of 
wood ,  and  dragged  them  in  the  kennels  of  the  street !    And  such ,  too ,  was  the 

case  at  the  convent  of  the  Bernardins. 

( 

«  Some  delegates  of  the  sections  tried  to  gain  access  to  the  prison ,  that  certain  of 
the  citizens  might  be  given  up  to  them.  They  were  repulsed.  A  piquet  of  national 
guard  had  possession  of  the  arch,  which  connected  La  Place  de  I' Abbaye  with  the 
court.    It  had  received  orders  to  let  anybody  in ,  but  nobody  out.    One  would  have 


—  30  — 

proteger  l'assassinat.  Un  seul  de  ces  deputes  osa  franchir  cette  voute.  «  Es-tu  las 
«devivre?»  lui  dirent  ces  egorgeurs.  On  conduisit  ce  depute  a  Maillard.  Maiilard 
lui  fit  remettre  les  deux  prisonniers  qu'il  demandait.  Le  depute  traversa  de  nouveau 
la  cour  avec  ces  detenus.  Les  egorgeurs  assis  sur  ces  restes,  comme  des  moissonneurs 
sur  des  gerbes ,  se  reposaient  ,  fumaient ,  mangeaient ,  buvaient  tranquillemenL 
((Veux-tu  voir  un  coeur  d'aristocrate? »  lui  dirent  ces  bouchers  d'hommes,  «tiens! 
« regarde !  »  En  disant  ces  mots ,  l'un  d'eux  fend  le  tronc  d'un  cadavre  encore 
chaud ,  arrache  le  coeur,  en  exprime  le  sang  dans  un  verre  et  le  boit  aux  yeux 
de  Bisson ;  puis ,  lui  presentant  le  verre ,  il  le  force  d'y  tremper  ses  levres  et  n'ouvre 
passage  aux  prisonniers  qu'a  ce  prix.  Les  assassins  eux-memes  laisserent  plusieurs 
fois  leur  sanglant  ouvrage  et  se  laverent  les  pieds  et  les  mains  pour  aller  remettre 
a  leurs  families  les  personnes  acquittees  par  le  tribunal.  Ces  hommes  refuserent 
tout  salaire.  <cLa  Nation  nous  paye  pour  tuer,»  disaient-ils,  «mais  non  pour  sauver.» 
Apres  avoir  remis  un  pere  a  sa  fille,  un  fils  a  sa  mere,  ils  essuyaient  leurs  larmes 
d'attendrissement  pour  aller  recommencer  a  egorger.  Jamais  massacre  n'eut  plus 
l'apparence  d'une  tache  commandee.  L'assassinat,  pendant  ces  jours,  etait  devenu 
un  metier  de  plus  dans  Paris. 


aTandis  que  les  tombereaux,  commandes  par  les  agents  du  Comite  de  surveillance, 
charriaient  les  cadavres  et  le  sang  de  1'Abbaye ,  trente  egorgeurs  epiaient  depuis 
le  matin  les  portes  des  Cannes  de  la  rue  de  Vaugirard ,  attendant  le  signal.  La 
prison  des  Cannes  etait  l'ancien  couvent ,  immense  edifice  ,  perce  de  cloitres ,  flanque 
d'une  eglise ,  entoure  de  cours ,  de  jardins ,  de  terrains  vagues.  On  l'avait  converti 
en  prison  pour  les  pretres  condamnes  a  la  deportation.  La  gendarmerie  et  la  garde 
nationale  y  fournissaient  des  postes.  On  avail,  a  dessein,  affaibli  ces  postes  le 
matin.  Les  assassins,  qui  forcerent  les  portes  vers  six  heures  du  soir,  les  refermerent 
sur  eux.  Ceux  qui  commencerent  le  massacre ,  n'avaient  rien  du  peuple ,  ni  dans 
le  costume ,  ni  dans  le  langage ,  ni  dans  les  armes.  C'etaient  des  hommes  jeunes , 
bien  vetus,  armes  de  pistolets  et  de  fusils  de  chasse.  Cerat,  jeune  sei'de  de  Marat 
et  de  Danton,  marchait  a  leur  tete.  On  reconuaissait  dans  sa  troupe  quelques-uns 
des  visages  exaltes,  qu'on  voyait  habituellement  aux  tribunes  du  club  des  Cordeliers. 
Pretoriens  de  ces  agitations,  on  les  appelait  par  allusion  au  couvent  ou  se  tenaient 
les  seances ,  « les  freres  rouges  de  Danton : »  ils  portaient  le  bonnet  rouge ,  une 
cravate,  un  gilet,  une  ceinture  rouges,  symbole  significatif  pour  accoutumer  les 
yeux  et  la  pensee  a  la  couleur  du  sang.  Les  directeurs  du  massacre  craignirent 
que  l'ascendant  du  clerge  sur  le  bas  peuple  ne  fit  reculer  les  egorgeurs  devant  des 
meurtres  sacrileges.  Ils  recruterent  dans  les  ecoles ,  dans  les  lieux  de  debauche 
et  dans  les  clubs,  des  executeurs  volontaires  au-dessus  de  ces  scrupules,  et  que 
la  haine  poussait  d'eux-memes  a  l'assassinat  des  pretres.  Des  coups  de  fusil  tires 
dans  les  cloitres  et  dans  les  jardins  sur  quelques  vieillards,  qui  s'y  promenaient, 
furent  le  signal  du  massacre.  De  cloitre  en  cloitre,  de  cellule  en  cellule,  d'arbre 
en  arbre  les  fugitifs  tombaient  blesses  ou  morts  sous  les  balles.    On  faisait  rouler 


I 
—  31   — 

said,  that  it  was  stationed  where  it  was  to  protect  assassination.'  There  was  hut  a 
single  deputy,  that  had  nerve  enough  to  venture  through  the  arch.  «  Art  thou  sic/c  of 
a  life?  n  was  the  question  of  the  cut-throats.  He  was  conducted  to  Maillard ,  who 
caused  the  two  prisoners,  demanded  at  his  hands,  to  be  delivered  up  at  once.  The 
deputy  recrossei  the  court,  attended  by  his  charge.  The  wretches,  lounging  on  the 
bodies,  like  reapers  upon  shocks  of  corn,  reposed  and  smoked  and  ate  and  drank 
completely  at  their  ease.  «Wilt  thou  behold  the  heart  of  an  aristocrat! »  they  inquired  : 
v.  well,  then,  slay  and  look! »  And  one  of  them,  rising  from  his  seat,  cleaves  in 
twain  the  trunk  of  a  recent  corpse,  wrenches  out  the  heart,  squeezes  the  blood  into  a 
glass,  and  drinks  it  on  the  spot-,  then,  presenting  it  to  Bisson,  obliges  him  to  taste  it, 
nor  lets  the  others  go,  till  they  too,  in  their  turn,  have  touched  it  with  their  lips. 
And  yet,  with  all  this,  they  would  frequently  desist  from  slaughter,  and  wash  their 
hands  and  feet  before  restoring  to  their  families  (  an  incongruous  mission !  )  such 
among  the  captives,  as  the  tribunal  had  acquitted.  But  they  would  hear  of  no 
recompence.  «  The  nation, »  they  alledged,  «j5ays  us  to  kill,  and  not  to  save.  » 
After  having  consigned  a  father  to  his  daughter,  a  son  to  his  mother,  they  would  wipe 
away  the  tears,  which  the  meeting  had  provoked,  and  back  to  butchery  again!  Never, 
to  be  sure ,  had  massacre  so  much  the  appearance  of  a  task.  In  Paris ,  in  those 
appalling  days,  assassination  was  a  trade  the  more. 

«  While  the  large  street-carts ,  which  had  been  ordered  expressly  by  the  agents  of 
the  Comite  de  surveillance ,  were  removing  from  the  Abbey  the  bodies  and  the  blood , 
thirty  bravos  ,  waiting  for  the  signal,  had  been  watching,  from  the  dawn  of  day,  the 
gates  of  Les  Garmes  in  la  rue  de  Vaugirard.  The  prison  of  Les  Carmes  was  the  former 
convent,  an  immense  edifice,  pierced  with  cloisters,  flanked  by  a  church,  surrounded 
by  courts  and  gardens  and  uncultivated  land.  It  had  been  converted  to  a  prison  for 
the  priests,  who  were  sentenced  to  transportation.  The  gendarmerie  and  national 
guard  had  furnished  it  with  posts  ,  which  ,  on  that  very  morning  ,  had  been  purposely 
reduced.  The  assassins ,  who  had  forced  the  gates  about  six  o'  clock  in  the  evening , 
bolted  them  as  soon  as  they  were  in.  They,  who  began  the  massacre,  appeared  in  no 
way  of  the  common  class ,  whether  by  their  dress ,  their  language ,  or  their  weapons , 
but,  on  the  contrary,  were  young  men,  who  were  well  attired,  and  armed  with  pistols 
and  with  guns.  Cerat,  the  youthful  seid  of  Marat  and  of  Danton,  was  marching  at  their 
head.  Some  of  those  excited  visages,  which  were  usually  to  be  seen  in  the  rostra 
at  the  club  of  Les  Cordeliers,'  were  recognizable  in  the  band.  The  praetorians  of- 
such  movements,  they  were  called,  in  allusion  to  the  convent  where  they  held  their 
sessions ,  « les  freres  rouges  de  Danton.  »  They  wore  the  red  cap ,  a  red  cravat ,  a  red 
waistcoat,  and  a  red  scarf, — all  of  them  significant  symbols,  and  intended  to  habituate 
the  eyes ,  and  accustom  the  thoughts ,  to  blood.  The  planners  of  the  massacre  were 
afraid,  that  the  ascendancy  of  the  clergy  over  the  lower  orders  might  (from  the 
sacrilegious  nature  of  the  crime)  induce  the  common  bravo  to  shrink  from  the  murder 
of  a  priest.  They  therefore  enlisted  in  the  schools ,  in  the  brothels  and  the  clubs, — to 
make  certain  of  their  mark, — a  troop  of  volunteers ,  above  such  scruples,  and  whom  a 
thorough  detestation  of  the  clergy  impelled  of  itself  to  become  their  executioners...    A 


—  32  — 

sur  les  escaliers ,  on  jetait  par  les  fenetres ,  les  cadavres  de  ceux  qui  avaient  succombe 
a  la  decharge. 


«Des  hordes  hideuses  d'hommes  en  haillons,  de  femmes,  d'enfans,  attirees  de 
ces  quartiers  de  misere  par  le  bruit  de  la  fusillade,  se  pressaient  aux  portes.  On 
les  ouvrait  de  temps  en  temps ,  pour  laisser  sortir  des  tombereaux  atteles  de  chevaux 
magnifiques ,  pris  dans  les  ecuries  du  P.oi.  Ces  chariots  fendaient  lentement  la 
foule ,  laissant  derriere  eux  une  longue  trace  de  sang.  Sur  ces  piles  de  cadavres 
ambulantes,  des  femmes,  des  enfans  assis ,  trepignant  de  joie,  riaient  et  montraient 
aux  passans  des  lambeaux  de  chair  humaine.  Le  sang  rejaillissait  sur  leurs  habits, 
sur  leurs  visages,  sur  leur  pain.  Ces  bouches  livides,  hurlant  la  Marseillaise, 
deshonoraient  le  chant  de  l'heroisme  en  l'associant  a  I'assassinat.  Le  peuple  have, 
qui  suivait  les  roues,  repetait  en  choeur  les  refrains  et  dansait  autour  de  ces  chars 
comme  autour  des  depouilles  triomphales  du  clerge  et  de  l'aristocratie  vaincus. 
Le  petit  nombre  des  assassins ,  le  grand  nombre  des  victimes  ,  l'immensite  du 
batiment,  l'etendue  du  jardin ,  les  murs,  les  arbres,  les  charmilles,  qui  derobaient 
aux  balles  les  pretres  courant  ca  et  la  pour  fuir  la  mort,  ralentirent  l'execution. 
La  nuit  tombante  allait  les  proteger  de  son  ombre.  Les  executeurs  formerent  une 
enceinte,  comme  dans  une  chasse  aux  betes  fauves,  autour  du  jardin.  En  se  rap- 
prochant  pas  a  pas  des  batiments,  ils  forcerent  a  coups  de  sabre  tous  les  ecclesiastiques 
a  se  rabattre  dans  l'eglise.  II  les  y  renfermerent.  Pendant  que  cette  battue  s'operait 
au  dehors,  une  recherche  generate  dans  la  maison  refoula  de  meme  dans  l'eglise 
les  pretres  echappes  aux  premieres  decharges.  Les  assassins  rapporterent  sur  leurs 
propres  bras  les  pretres  blesses ,  qui  ne  pouvaient  marcher.  Une  fois  parquees  dans 
cette  enceinte,  les  victimes,  appelees  une  a  une,  furent  entrainees  par  une  petite 
porte,  qui  ouvrait  sur  le  jardin,  et  immolees  sur  l'escalier.» 


«  Telles  furent  les  journees  de  septembre.  Les  fosses  de  Clamart,  les  catacombes  de 
la  barriere  Saint-Jacques  connurent  seules  le  nombre  des  victimes.  Les  uns  en  comp- 
lement dix  mille ,  les  autres  le  reduisirent  a  deux  ou  trois  mille.  Mais  le  crime  n'est 
pas  dans  le  nombre ,  il  est  dans  l'acte  de  ces  assassinats.  Une  theorie  barbare  a  voulu 
les  justiQer.  Les  theories,  qui  revoltent  la  conscience,  ne  sont  que  les  paradoxes  de 
l'esprit  mis  au  service  des  aberrations  du  coeur.  On  veut  grandir  en  s'elevant,  dans  de 
soi-disant  calculs  d'homme  d'Etat,  au-dessus  des  scrupules  de  la  morale  et  des  atten- 
drissements  de  Tame.  On  se  croit  ainsi  au-dessus  de  1'homme.  On  se  trompe  :  on  est 
moins  qu'un  homme.   Tout  ce  qui  retranche  a  1'homme  quelque  chose  de  sa  sensibilite 


—  33   — 

few  shots,  aimed  in  the  cloisters  and  the  gardens  at  some  aged  priests,  who  were 
walking  there ,  was  the  signal  for  the  massacre.  Chased ,  as  they  were ,  from  cloister 
to  cloister,  from  cell  to  cell,  from  tree  to  tree,  the  fugitives  fell  dead  or  wounded 
by  the  balls.  The  corpses  of  those ,  who  had  thus  been  killed ,  were  tumbled  down 
the  steps,  or  flung  from  the  windows  to  the  ground.  » 

«  A  disgusting  horde  of  men  in  rags ,  of  women ,  and  of  children ,  attracted  from 
their  miserable  homes  by  the  noise  of  the  fusillade ,  was  thronging  at  the  gates  i— the  = 
gates ,  which  were  opened ,  from  time  to  time ,  to  give  egress  to  the  spacious  carts , 
drawn  by  handsome  high-bred  horses ,  that  were  levied  in  the  stables  of  the  king. 
These  vehicles,  forcing  their  way,  went  slowly  through  the  crowd,  leaving  in  their 
wake  a  long ,  long  track  of  blood.  Seated  on  those  going  piles — those  moving 
mountains— of  the  dead,  women  and  children,  who  were  literally  (the  children, 
that  is , )  kicking  their  heels  for  joy ,  laughed  as  they  held  up ,  and  showed  the 
passengers,  scraps  of  human  flesh.  The  blood  kept  spurting  on  their  dress,  their 
faces,  and  their  bread.  Their  livid  mouths,  bawling  v.  La  Marseillaise,))  debased 
the  hymn  of  heroism  by  allying  it  with  murder.  The  squalid  mob ,  that  followed 
close  upon  the  wheels ,  repeated ,  in  full  chorus ,  the  burden  of  the  strophes ,  and 
danced  about  the  carts,  as  though  about  the  exuvice — the  triumphal  strippings, — of 
the  aristocracy  and  church.  The  small  number  of  the  assassins ,  the  large  one  of  the 
victims,  the  size  of  the  edifice,  the  size  of  the  gardens,  the  walls,  the  trees,  the 
horn-beam  hedges,  which  sheltered  the  affrighted  priests,  who,  here  and  there,  were 
running  for  their  lives,  retarded  the  massacre  of  course.  The  fall  of  night,  too,  was 
about  to  befriend  them  with  its  shade.  The  bravos ,  in  consequence ,  formed  a  ring , 
as  in  a  wild-beast  hunt,  which  composed  the  entire  garden.  Approaching  the  buildings 
step  by  step,  they  compelled  the  ecclesiastics,  at  the  edge  of  the  sword,  and  one  and 
all,  to  take  refuge  in  the  church ;  and  there  they  shut  them  in.  Whilst  this  wholesale 
slaughter  was  going  on  out  of  doors,  a  narrow  scrutiny  in  the  house  drove  into  the 
same  church,  in  the  same  way,  as  many  of  the  priests,  as  had  thitherto  escaped  ( with 
their  lives  at  least)  from  the  sanguinary  fusillade.  The  assassins  carried  in  their  arms 
such  of  them,  as  were  grievously  wounded  and  were  unable  to  walk.  As  soon  as  they 
were  all  collected  in  their  pen,  the  victims,  being  summoned  one  by  one,  were  dragged 
through  a  little  door,  which  opened  on  the  garden  ,  and  immolated  on  the  steps.  » 

«  And  such,  then,  were  the  days  of  September.  The  graves  of  Clamart,  the  catacombs 
of  the  barrier  St.  Jaques,  alone  could  tell  the  number  of  the  victims,  which  by  some 
were  rated  at  ten  thousand,  by  others  reduced  to  two  or  three.  But  the  crime  of 
these  assassinations  consists  in  the  doing ,  not  in  the  amount  of  them.  A  ruthless 
theory  has  endeavoured  to  justify  them,  as  if,  forsooth,  all  such  theories,  as  the 
conscience  rejects,  were  anything  but  aberrations  of  the  head  abetting  the  aberrations 
of  the  heart.  In  the  so-called ,  self-called  calculations  of  a  statesman ,  he  thinks  to 
become  great  by  looking  down  upon  every  moral  scruple  and  every  human  sympathy. 
This,  he  conceives,  is  being  more  than  man,  whereas  (alas  for  his  hallucination!)  it  is 


—  34  — 

lui  retranche  une  partie  de  sa  veritable  grandeur.  Tout  ce  qui  nie  sa  veritable 
conscience  lui  enleve  une  partie  de  sa  lumiere.  La  lumiere  de  I'homme  est  dans  son 
esprit,  mais  elle  est  surtout  dans  sa  conscience.  Les  systemes  trompent.  Le  sentiment 
seul  est  infaillible  comme  la  nature.  Contester  la  criminalite  des  journees  de  septembre 
c'est  s'inscrire  en  faux  contre  le  sentiment  du  genre  humain.  C'est  nier  la  nature,  qui 
n'est  que  la  morale  dans  l'instinct.  II  n'y  a  rien  dans  I'homme  plus  grand  que  l'huma- 
nite.  II  n'est  pas  plus  permis  a  un  gouvernement  qu'a  un  individu  d'assassiner.  La 
masse  des  victimes  ne  change  pas  le  caractere  du  meurtre.  Si  une  goutte  de  sang 
souille  la  main  d'un  assassin,  des  flots  de  sang  n'innocentent  pas  les  Danton!  La 
grandeur  du  forfait  ne  le  transforme  pas  en  vertu.  Des  pyramides  de  cadavres  elevent 
plus  haut,  mais  c'est  plus  haut  dans  l'execration  des  hommes.  » 


Livre  25.  Sections  8,  11,  13,  14,  20,  22. 

*    BATAILLE    DE   VALMY. 

(( Le  due  de  Brunswick  ne  veut  pas  donner  aux  Francais  le  temps  de  se  raffermir. 
11  forme  trois  colonnes  d'attaque,  soutenues  par  deux  ailes  de  cavalerie.  Ces  colonnes 
s'avancent  malgre  le  feu  des  batteries  franchises  et  vont  engloutir  sous  leur  masse 
le  moulin  de  Valmy,  oil  le  due  de  Chartres  les  attend  sans  s'ebranler.  Kellermann , 
qui  vient  de  retablir  sa  ligne ,  forme  son  armee  en  colonnes  par  bataillons ,  descend  de 
son  cheval,  en  jette  la  bride  a  une  ordonnance,  fait  conduire  l'animal  derriere  les 
rangs,  indiquant  aux  soldats,  par  cet  acte  desespere,  qu'il  ne  se  reserve  que  la  victoire 
ou  la  mort.  L'armee  le  comprend.  «  Camarades , »  s'ecrie  Kellermann  d'une  voix 
palpitante  d'enthousiasme  et  dont  il  prolonge  les  syllabes  pour  qu'elles  frappent  plus 
loin  l'oreille  de  ses  soldats ,    « voici  le  moment  de  la  victoire.     Laissons   avancer 

*  Quoique  je  ne  sois  autorise,  je  l'avoue,  ni  par  le  recit  de  Lamartine  dans  ses  «  Girondins,  »  ni 
par  celui  d'A.  Hugo  dans  sa  a  France  militaire ,  »  j'ai  cependant,  d'apres  le  feuilleton  de  Fetix 
Deriege  et  suivant  la  plus  forte  probability,  rattache  la  victoire  de  Valmy  au  chant  de  la  Marseillaise. 
Vu  la  grande  vogue  de  ce  chant  depuis  le  moment  de  sa  premiere  apparition  a  Strasbourg  au  mois 
d'avril  1792,  et  qui  devint  une  veritable  fureur  a  l'enti'£e  des  Marseillais  dans  Paris  au  mois  de  juillet, 
il  serait  difficile  de  concevoir  comment  on  eut  pu  le  passer  sous  silence  a  Valmy  le  20  septembre , 
d'autant  plus  que,  deux  mois  apres  seulement,  il  joua  un  si  grand  role  a  la  bataille  de  Jemmappes. 
Ncanmoins,  je  dois  ajouter,  que  dans  la  it  Biographic  Vniverselle ,  »  a  l'article  «  Kellermann,  »  nous 
trouvons  constate ,  que  le  victorieux  general  ecrivait  au  ministere  le  5  octobre ,  demandant  qu'un  Te 
Deum  fut  clianle  en  l'honneur  de  la  journee  de  Valmy,  et  que  le  ministere ,  dans  sa  reponse ,  specifia 
la  Marseillaise  comme  6 tant  des  deux  l'hymne  le  plus  digne  de  frapper  les  oreilles  des  Frangais  libres. 
(« 11  fallail  faire  chanter  la  Marseillaise,  plus  digne  de  frapper  les  oreilles  des  Francais  libres.  ») 
Voila  le  pour  et  le  contre  :  que  le  lecteur  en  juge  par  lui-meme.  Quant  a  moi ,  dans  l'absence  de 
toute  notice  bistorique ,  qui  prouve  que  la  Marseillaise  n'ait  pas  ete  cliantee  le  20  septembre ,  qu'on 
me  permette  de  rester  dans  ma  conviction  et  de  conclure  qu'elle  le  fut ,  quoique,  sans  doute,  apres  le 
cri  de  «  Vive  la  Nation !»  qui  produisit  un  tel  elfet.  II  me  semble  impossible,  qu'une  journee  si 
remarquable  put  se  terminer  sans  que  les  Francais  la  ctMebrassent  par  les  stances  patriotiques  de  de 
Lisle,  dont,  au  reste,  ils  etaient  si  entliousiasmes.  (Pour  une  notice  sans  passion,  quoiqu'ecrite  par 
un  militaire ,  voyez  l'appendice. ) 

S.  P. 


—   35  — 

being  less.  "Whatever  subtracts  from  his  sensibility  subtracts  from  his  real  grandeur. 
Whatever  abnegates  his  real  conscience  subtracts  from  his  inward  Light.  Now,  the 
inward  light  of  a  man  is  in  his  mind ,  but  still  more  in  his  conscience.  Systems  are 
deceitful :  there  is  but  one  thing  as  infallible  as  nature  itself ,— the  sentiment  of  right 
and  wrong.  To  dispute  the  criminality  of  the  days  of  September  is  to  maintain  a 
paradox,  and  sophisticate  the  common  feeling  of  mankind  , — a  sheer  denial  of  nature 
in  fact ,  which  is ,  indeed ,  but  instinctive  morality.  Humanity  is  the  proudest  attribute 
of  man ;  and  it  is  no  more  allowable  for  a  government  to  assassinate  than  it  is  for  an 
individual.  The  number  of  the  victims— the  mass — cannot  change  the  character  of 
guilt  :  the  murder  is  the  same.  If  a  drop  of  blood  defiles  the  hand  of  an  assassin, 
a  sea  of  it  cannot  purify  a  Danton.  The  hugeness  of  the  crime  cannot  transform  it  into 
virtue.  A  pyramid  of  corpses ,  I  admit ,  reaches  the  highest  of  the  two ,  but  then  it 
is  the  highest  in  the  execration  of  mankind.  » 

Book  25.  Sections  8,  11,  13,  14,  20,  22. 

*   BATTLE   OF   VALMY. 

«  The  Duke  of  Brunswick  allows  the  French  no  time  to  consolidate  their  force  ,  but 
forms  his  troops  into  three  columns  of  attack ,  supported  by  two  wings  of  cavalry. 
These  columns ,  in  spite  of  the  heavy  fire  from  the  French  batteries ,  march  resolutely 
forward ,  and  threaten ,  by  dint  of  numbers ,  to  overwhelm  the  mill  of  Valmy,  where 
the  Duke  de  Chartres  as  steadily  awaits  them.  Kellermann  ,  who  has  just  reorganized 
his  broken  line,  draws  up  his  army  by  battalions  into  columns,  alights  from  his  horse, 
gives  it  to  an  orderly,  and  bids  him  take  it  in  the  rear,  thus  signifying  to  his  men  his 
desperate  resolve, — to  vanquish  or  to  die.  The  act  is  understood.  <c  Comrades ! »  he 
exclaims  with  a  voice ,  which  quivers  with  emotion ,  as.  he  dwell?  upon,  every  syllable ,. 
to  reach  the  ear  of  every  soldier  :  «  Comrades!  behold  the  hour  of  victory!    Let  the 

•  Though  authorized,  I  grant,  neither  by  Lamartine's  account  in  his  «Girondins,»  nor  by  A.  Hugo's 
in  his  «  France  Militaire, »  I  have  still— partly  on  the  strength  of  Felix  Deriege's  feuilleton,  partly  on 
the  grounds  of  strong  probability, — connected  the  victory  of  Valmy  with  the  song  of  «£a  Marseillaise. » 
Looking  at  the  prime  vogue  of  the  latter  from  the  moment  of  its  first  appearance  at  Strasbourg,  in  the 
month  (let  us  say)  of  April,  1792,  and  at  the  perfect  furor  it  became  from  the  entry  of  the  Marseillais 
into  Paris  in  July,  it  is  difficult  to  conceive — very  difficult — how  it  could  be  overlooked  at  Valmy  on  the 
20lh  of  September,  more  especially  as ,  only  two  months  afterwards ,  it  figured  in  so  grand  a  role  at 
the  battle  of  Jemmappes.  I  am  bound,  however,  to  add,  that,  in  the  « Biographic  Vnivcrsellc, »  art. 
«  Kellermann ,  »  we  find  it  stated,  that  the  victorious  general  wrote  to  the  Ministry  on  the  3d  of 
October,  begging  a  Te  Dcum  might  be  performed  in  honour  of  the  feat  at  Valmy,  and  that  the  Ministry, 
in  reply,  specified  «  La  Marseillaise  »  as  the  fitter  hymn  of  the  two  for  the  ears  of  a  free-born  Frenchman. 
(  k  II  fallait  fairc  chanter  la  Marseillaise ,  plus  digne  de  {rapper  Us  oreilles  des  Francais  libres.  » ) 
The  reader  must  judge  for  himself.  I ,  in  the  absence  of  positive  historic  proof  that  it  was  not  sung 
on  the  2011'  of  September,  must  crave  leave  to  abide  by  my  impression  and  conclude  that  it  was, 
though  subsequently,  no  doubt,  to  the  wonder-working  cry  of  «Vive  la  Nation ! »  To  me,  at  least,  it 
seems  impossible,  that  so  eventful  a  day  should  have  gone  over  without  the  French  (who  were  so 
enamoured  of  them  too  !  )  glorifying  the  earliest  success  of  the  Republic  with  the  patriotic  and  appro- 
priate stanzas  of  De  Lisle.  (For  a  dispassionate,  though  military,  mention  of  «La  Marseillaise,  ><  see 
the  Appendix. ) 

S.  P. 


—  36  — 

« l'ennemi  sans  tirer  un  seul  coup  et  chargeons  a  la  baionnette !  »  En  disant  ces 
mots ,  il  eleve  et  agite  son  chapeau ,  orn6  du  panache  tricolore ,  sur  la  pointe  de  son 
epee.  «  Vive  la  nation!  »  s'ecrie-t-il  d'une  voix  plus  tonnante  encore ,  «  allons  vaincre 
«  pour  elle !  » 

«  Ce  cri  du  general,  porte  de  bouche  en  bouche  par  les  bataillons  les  plus  rapproches, 
court  sur  toute  la  ligne ;  repete  par  ceux  qui  l'avaient  profere  les  premiers ,  grossi  par 
ceux  qui  le  repetent  pour  la  premiere  fois ,  il  forme  une  clameur  immense ,  semblable 
a  la  voix  de  la  patrie  animant  elle-meme  ses  premiers  defenseurs.  Ce  cri  de  toute 
une  armee,  prolonge  pendant  plus  d'un  quart-d'heure  et  roulant  d'une  colline  a 
l'autre ,  dans  les  intervalles  du  bruit  du  canon ,  rassure  l'armee  avec  sa  propre  voix  et 
fait  reflechir  le  due  de  Brunswick.  De  pareils  coeurs  promettent  des  bras  terribles. 
Les  soldats  francais  imitant  spontanement  le  geste  sublime  de  leur  general ,  elevent 
leurs  chapeaux  et  leurs  casques  au  bout  de  leurs  baionnettes  et  les  agitent  en  1'air, 
comme  pour  saluer  la  victoire  :  « Elle  est  a  nous!  »  dit  Kellermann,  et  il  s'elance  au 
pas  de  course  au-devant  des  colonnes  prussiennes  en  faisant  redoubler  les  decharges 
de  son  artillerie.  A  1'aspect  de  cette  armee  qui  s'ebranle  comme  d'elle-meme  en 
avant ,  sous  la  mitraille  de  quatre-vingts  pieces  de  canon ,  les  colonnes  prussiennes 
hesitent,  s'arretent,  fiottent  un  moment  en  desordre.  Kellermann  avarice  toujours. 
Le  due  de  Chartres ,  un  drapeau  tricolore  a  la  main ,  lance  sa  cavalerie  a  la  suite  de 
l'artillerie  a  cheval.  Le  due  de  Brunswick,  avec  le  coup-d'ceil  d'un  vieux  soldat  et 
cette  economie  de  sang  qui  caractdrise  les  generaux  consommes,  juge  a  l'instant  que 
son  attaque  s'amortira  contre  un  pareil  entliousiasme.  II  reforme  avec  sang-froid  ses 
tetes  de  colonnes ,  fait  sonner  la  retraite  et  reprend  lentement ,  et  sans  etre  poursuivi , 
ses  positions. » 


Liv.  27.  Sect.  14. 

LOUIS  XVI   APRES   SON   INTERROGATOIRE. 


« Santerre ,  apres  l'interrogatoire ,  reprit  le  Boi  par  le  bras  et  le  conduisit  dans 
la  salle  d'attente  de  la  Convention,  accompagne  de  Chambon  et  de  Chaumette. 
La  longueur  de  la  seance  et  l'agitation  de  son  ame  avaient  epuise  les  forces  de 
l'accuse.  II  chancelait  d'inanition.  Chaumette  lui  demanda  s'il  voulait  prendre 
quelque  aliment.  Le  Boi  refuse.  Un  moment  apres ,  vaincu  par  la  nature  et  voyant 
un  grenadier  de  l'escorte  offrir  au  Procureur  de  la  commune  la  moitie  d'un  pain , 
Louis  XVI  s'approcha  de  Chaumette  et  lui  demanda ,  a  voix  basse ,  un  morceau 
de  ce  pain.  «  Demandez  a  haute  voix  ce  que  vous  desirez ,  »  lui  repondit  Chaumette 
en  se  reculant  comme  s'il  eut  craint  le  soupe.on  meme  de  la  pitie.  «  Je  vous  demande 
«  un  morceau  de  votre  pain ,  »  reprit  le  Roi  en  Levant  la  voix.  «  Tenez ,  rompez 
(i  a  present,))  lui  dit  Chaumette,  «c'est  un  dejeuner  de  Spartiate.  Si  j'avais  une 
«  racine ,  je  vous  en  donnerais  la  moitie.  » 

«On  annonca  la  voiture.  Le  Roi  y  remonta,  son  morceau  de  pain  encore  a  la 
main-,  il  n'en  mangea  que  la  croute.    Embarrasse  du  reste  et  craignant  que,  s'il 


—  37  — 

«  enemy  advance.  Fire  not  a  single  volley,  but  charge  them  ivith  the  bayonet ! »  And , 
so  saying ,  he  lifts  his  hat ,  with  its  tricoloured  feather,  upon  the  point  of  his  sword , 
and ,  waving  it  in  the  air,  shouts  with  a  louder  energy  still  :  «  vive  la  nation  !  go ,  in 
«  her  sacred  name ,  and  conquer  for  your  native  land  !  » 

«  This  cry  of  their  commander,  passing  from  mouth  to  mouth  in  the  immediate 
battalions,  runs  along  the  whole  line  :  repeated  by  those,  who  repeated  it  the  first,  and 
magnified  by  those,  who  repeat  it  from  them,  it  swells  into  a  mighty  sound,  which  seems 
to  be  the  voice  of  France  herself,  calling  on  her  sons  to  rally  round  her.  This  cry  of  an 
entire  army,  prolonged  for  twenty  minutes,  and  rolling  from  height  to  height  during 
the  pause  of  the  artillery,  reassures  it ,  as  it  were ,  with  its  proper  tongue ,  and  makes 
the  Duke  of  Brunswick  reflect ,  that ,  where  such  hearts  are  found ,  there  are  arms  to 
correspond.  The  French  troops ,  of  their  own  accord ,  imitate  the  sublime  gest  of  their 
general,  by  raising  their  helmets  and  their  hats  on  the  point  of  their  bayonets,  and 
waving  them  in  the  air,  as  though ,  like  him ,  to  welcome  Victory.  «  She  is  our's !  » 
says  Kellermann,  as,  double-quick-time,  he  rushes  to  confront  the  Prussians,  and 
opens  on  their  ranks  a  fiercer  cannonade  than  ever.  At  the  sight  of  this  army,  which, 
apparently,  is  moving  of  its  own  impulse ,  exposed  to  the  discharge  of  eighty  pieces  of 
ordnance,  the  Prussians  hesitate...  halt...  and,  for  a  moment,  border  on  confusion. 
Kellermann  keeps  marching  forward.  The  Duke  de  Chartres ,  with  a  tricoloured  flag  in 
his  hand,  and  immediately  behind  the  horse-artillery,  heads  the  cavalry  at  full  gallop. 
The  Duke  of  Brunswick ,  with  the  eye  of  an  old  soldier  and  that  chariness  of  human 
life,  which  shows  the  true  tactician ,  decides  at  once,  that ,  in  the  face  of  such  powerful 
enthusiasm,  his  attack  will  only  be  a  failure,  and  forms,  in  consequence,  his  leading 
columns  as  they  were  before ,  beats  the  retreat ,  and  leisurely  resumes  his  positions , 
without  being  followed  by  the  French.  » 

Book  27.  Section  14. 

LOUIS  XVI   AFTER   HIS  EXAMINATION. 

«  When  the  examination  was  over,  Santerre ,  accompanied  by  Chambon  and  Chau- 
mette,  took  his  Majesty  by  the  arm,  and  led  him  into  the  waiting-room  of  the  Convention. 
The  length  of  the  sitting  and  his  great  mental  anxiety  had  exhausted  the  physical  powers 
of  the  accused.  He  tottered  from  inanition.  Chaumette  inquired  if  he  would  take 
anything.  The  king  declined,  but,  presently  after,  overcome  by  fainlness,  and  seeing 
a  grenadier  of  the  body-guard  offer  half-a-loaf  to  the  procureur  of  the  commune , 
Louis  XVI  approached  Chaumette ,  and  asked  him  in  a  whisper  for  a  bit  of  it.  «  Speak 
«  out  for  what  you  want,  »  replied  the  latter,  drawing  back  and  apparently  afraid  of 
being  even  suspected  of  pity.  «  /  ask  you  for  a  bit  of  bread,  »  rejoined  the  king  in  a 
louder  tone.  «  There,  then,  »  said  Chaumette,  ubreak  apiece  off.  'Tis  a  breakfast  a  la 
«  Spartiate  :  if  I  had  but  a  root ,  I  would  give  you  the  half  oj  it.  » 

«On  the  carriage  being  announced,  his  Majesty  reentered  it,  holding  the  bit  of  bread 
in  his  hand.    He  only  ate  the  crust.    At  a  loss  about  the  rest  and  apprehensive ,  if  he 


—  38  — 

Ie  jetait  par  la  portiere,  on  ne  crut  que  son  geste  etait  un  signal,  ou  qu'il  avait 
cache  un  billet  dans  la  mie  du  pain ,  il  le  remit  a  Colombeau ,  substitut  de  la 
commune,  assis  en  face  de  lui  dans  la  voiture.  Colombeau  le  jeta  dans  la  rue. 
k  Ah !  »  dit  le  Roi ,  «  c'est  mal  de  jeter  ainsi  le  pain  dans  un  moment  ou  il  est  si 
«  rare.  »  «Et  comment  savez-vous  qu'il  est  rare?  »  lui  demanda  Chambon.  «Parce 
«  que  celui  que  je  mange  sent  la  poussiere. » — «  Ma  grand-mere , »  reprit  Chaumette 
avec  une  familiarite  joviale,  «me  disait  dans  mon  enfance  :  «ne  jetez  jamais  une 
«  miette  de  pain ,  car  vous  ne  sauriez  en  faire  pousser  autant. » — «M.  Chaumette,» 
dit  en  souriant  le  Roi ,  «  votre  grand-mere  avait  du  bons  sens  •,  le  pain  vient  de  Dieu.» 
La  conversation  fut  ainsi  sereine  et  presque  enjouee  pendant  le  retour. 

«  Le  Roi  comptait  et  nommait  toutes  les  rues.  «Ah!  voici  la  rue  d'Orleans,» 
s'ecria-t-il  en  la  traversant.     «  Dites  la  rue  de  1'Egalite  ,  »  reprit  rudement  Chaumette. 

«Oui,  oui,»  dit  le  Roi,  «a  cause  de »     11  n'acheva  pas  et  resta  un  moment 

morne  et  silencieux. 

«  Un  peu  plus  loin,  Chaumette,  qui  n'avait  rien  pris  depuis  le  matin,  se  trouva 
rnal  dans  la  voiture.  Le  roi  rendit  quelques  soins  a  son  accusateur.  «  C'est  sans 
«doute,»  lui  dit-il,  «le  mouvement  de  la  voiture  qui  vous  incommode.  Avez-vous 
« jamais  eprouve  le  roulis  d'un  vaisseau? »— «Oui,»  repondit  Chaumette,  ccj'ai  fait 
« la  guerre  sous  l'amiral  Lamotte-Piquet.  » — «Ah!»  dit  le  Roi,  «c'etait  un  brave 
«  homme  que  Lamotte-Piquet ! »  Pendant  que  l'entretien  se  continuait  dans  l'interieur 
de  la  voiture,  les  hommes  de  la  Halle  au  Rle  et  les  charbonniers,  formes  en  bataillons, 
chantaient  autour  des  roues  les  couplets  les  plus  meurtriers  de  la  Marseillaise. 

Liv.  34.  Sect.  8. 
EXECUTION  DU  ROI. 

«  Le  cortege ,  un  moment  arrete ,  reprit  sa  marche ,  a  travers  le  silence  et  {.'im- 
mobility du  peuple ,  jusqu'a  l'embouchure  de  la  rue  Royale  ,  sur  la  place  de  la 
Revolution.  La,  un  rayon  de  soleil  d'hiver,  qui  percait  la  brume,  laissait  voir  la 
place  couverte  de  cent  mille  tetes ,  les  regiments  de  la  garnison  de  Paris  formant 
le  carre  autour  de  l'echafaud,  les  executeurs  attendant  la  victime,  et  l'instrument 
du  supplice  dressant  au-dessus  de  la  foule  ses  madders  et  ses  poteaux  peints  en 
rouge  couleur  de  sang. 

k  Ce  supplice  etait  la  guillotine.  Cette  machine ,  inventee  en  Italie  et  imported 
en  France  par  l'humanite  d'un  medecin  celebre  de  l'Assemblee  constituante,  nomme 
Guillotin ,  avait  ete  substitute  aux  supplices  *  atroces  et  infamants  que  la  Revolution 
avait  voulu  abolir.  Elle  avait  de  plus ,  dans  la  pensee  des  legislateurs  de  l'Assemblee 
constituante,  l'avantage  de  ne  pas  faire  verser  le  sang  de  l'homme  par  la  main 
et  sous  le  coup  souvent  mal  assure  d'un  autre  homme;  mais  de  faire  executer  le 

*  Voyez  l'appendice. 


—  39  — 

threw  it  from  the  window,  that  the  gest  would  be  mistaken  for  a  signal,  or  (hat  he 
would  he  thought  to  have  concealed  a  note  in  the  crumb,  he  gave  it  to  Colombeau,  the 
substitut  of  the  commune,  who  was  sitting  opposite  to  him.  Colombeau  flung  it  in  the 
street.  «Fi! »  [said  the  king,  u.noiv  that  bread  is  so  scarce ,  you  are  wrong  to  throw 
«  it  aivay. »  —  «  And  how  do  you  know ,  »  inquired  Cliambon ,  «  that  bread  is  scarce  ?  » 
— ((.Because  what  I  am  eating  smells  of  dust.  » — ((My  grand-mother, »  interrupted 
Chaumelte  with  a  jovial  familiarity,  «  used  to  tell  me  when  a  boy :  »  never  throw  away 
«a  crumb  of  bread,  for  you  cannot  make  an  ear  of  corn  to  grow. »  «M.  Chaumette, 
«  observed  the  monarch  with  a  smile ,  «  your  grand-mother  ivas  a  sensible  woman  : 
((bread  comes  from  God.  »  So  cheerful  —  almost  gay  in  fact  —  was  the  tone  of 
conversation  on  the  return ! 

«  The  king ,  as  they  went  along ,  remarked  the  different  streets ,  and  called  them  by 
their  names.  « Ah !  ah!  this  is  la  rue  d'Orleans!»  he  cried.  ((Say  la  rue  de  l'Egalite, » 
was  the  rough  expression  of  Chaumette.  «  Yes,  yes, »  rejoined  his  Majesty,  «on  account 
«o/»...  and  there  he  stopped  short,  and,  for  a  moment  or  two,  was  silent  and  was 
sad. 

«  A  little  further  on,  Chaumette,  who  had  taken  nothing  since  the  morning,  became 
indisposed,  and,  though  his  accuser,  was  attended  to  by  the  king.  ((No  doubt, »  said 
he,  (dt  is  the  motion  of  the  carriage,  which  incommodes  you.  Pray,  did  you  ever 
((experience  the  rolling  of  a  ship?» — aYes,i)  replied  Chaumette,  «/ served  under  Admiral 
a  Lamotte  Piquet. » — ((Ah\»  rejoined  his  Majesty,  « Lamotte Piquet  ivas  a  brave  man.n 
While  they  were  thus  chatting  in  the  carriage ,  the  men  of  the  Corn-market  and  the 
charcoal-sellers  kept  singing  about  the  wheels  the  most  sanguinary  couplets  of  «  La 
(( Marseillaise.  » 

Book  34.  Section  8. 

EXECUTION   OF   THE   RING. 

«  The  procession ,  which  had  halted  for  a  moment ,  resumed  its  way  as  far  as  the 
entrance  of  la  rue  Royale,  on  la  place  de  la  Revolution.  The  crowd,  in  the  meanwhile, 
was  motionless  and  mute.  There  it  was,  that  a  ray  of  winter-sun,  penetrating  the 
mist,  exposed  to  view  a  hundred  thousand  heads,  the  regiments  of  the  garrison  of 
Paris  in  a  square  about  the  scaffold ,  the  executioners  awaiting  the  victim ,  and  the 
instrument  of  death ,  conspicuous  over  all ,  with  its  transverse  and  its  posts ,  that 
were  painted  with  the  hue  of  blood. 

«The  instrument  in  question  was  the  guillotine,  which, — invented  in  Italy  and 
humanely  introduced  into  France  by  a  member  of  I'Assemblee  Constituante ,  the 
celebrated  surgeon  Guillotin , — had  superseded  *  the  savage  and  demoralizing  modes 
of  punishment,  which  the  Revolution  was  anxious  to  abolish.  It  possessed  the  ad- 
vantage, too,  (as  judged  the  Assembly,)  of  not  shedding  the  blood  of  man  by  the 
( often  ineffective )  hand  of  his  fellow-man ,  but  of  doing  its  work  by  an  agent  without 

*  See  the  appendix. 


-r-    10  — 

meurtre  par  un  instrument  sans  ame ,  insensible  corame  le  bois  et  infaillible  comme 
le  fer.  Au  signal  de  l'executeur  la  hache  tombait  d'elle-meme.  Cette  hache ,  dont 
la  pesanteur  etait  centuplee  par  des  poids  attaches  sous  l'echafaud ,  glissait  entre 
deux  rainures  d'un  mouvement  a  la  fois  horizontal  et  perpendiculaire ,  comme  celui 
de  la  scie ,  et  detachait  la  tete  du  tronc  par  le  poids  de  sa  chute  et  avec  la  rapidite 
de  l'eclair.    C'etait  la  douleur  et  le  temps  supprimes  dans  la  sensation  de  la  mort. 

La  guillotine  etait  dressee ,  ce  jour-la ,  au  milieu  de  la  place  de  la  Revolution , 
devant  la  grande  allee  du  jardin  des  Tuileries,  en  face  et  comme  en  derision  du 
palais  des  rois ,  non  loin  de  l'endroit  od  la  fontaine  jaillissante  la  plus  rapprochee 
de  la  Seine  semble  aujourd'hui  laver  eternellement  le  pave. 

«  Depuis  l'aube  du  jour,  les  abords  de  l'echafaud ,  le  pont  Louis  XVI ,  les  terrasses 
des  Tuileries ,  les  parapets  du  fleuve ,  les  toils  des  maisons  de  la  rue  Royale ,  les 
branches  depouillees  des  arbres  des  Champs-EIysees  etaient  charges  d'une  innombrable 
multitude ,  qui  attendait  l'evenement  dans  l'agitation ,  dans  le  tumulte  et  dans  le 
bruit  d'une  ruche  d'hommes ,  comme  si  cette  foule  n'eut  pu  croire  au  supplice  d'un 
roi  avant  de  l'avoir  vu  de  ses  yeux.  Les  abords  immediats  de  l'echafaud  avaient 
ete  envahis ,  grace  aux  faveurs  de  la  commune  et  a  la  connivence  des  commandants 
des  troupes,,  par  les  hommes  de  sang  des  Cordeliers,  des  Jacobins  et  des  journees 
de  septembre ,  incapables  d'hesitation  ou  de  pitie\  Se  posant  eux-memes  autour 
de  l'echafaud ,  comme  les  temoins  de  la  Republique ,  ils  voulaient  que  le  supplice 
fut  comme  consomme  et  applaudi. 


«  A  l'approche  de  la  voiture  du  Roi ,  une  immobility  solennelle  surprit  cependant 
tout-a-coup  cette  foule  et  ces  hommes  eux-memes.  La  voiture  s'arreta  a  quelques 
pas  de  l'echafaud.    Le  trajet  avait  dure  deux  heuresj 

« Le  Roi ,  en  s'apercevant  que  la  voiture  avait  cesse  de  rouler,  leva  les  yeux , 
qu'il  tenait  attaches  au  livre  ,  et ,  comme  un  homme  qui  interrompt  sa  lecture 
pour  un  moment,  il  se  pencha  a  l'oreille  de  son  confesseur  et  lui  dit  a  voix  basse 
et  d'un  ton  d'interrogation  :  «Nous  voila  arrives,  je  crois?»  Le  pretre  ne  lui  repondit 
que  par  un  signe  silencieux.  Un  des  trois  freres  Sanson ,  bourreaux  de  Paris ,  ouvrit 
la  portiere.  Les  gendarmes  descendirent;  mais  le  Roi  refermant  la  portiere  et  plac.ant 
sa  main  droite  sur  le  genou  de  son  confesseur  d'un  geste  de  protection  :  «  Messieurs , » 
dit-il  avec  autorite"  aux  bourreaux ,  aux  gendarmes  et  aux  offlciers  qui  se  pressaient 
autour  des  roues,  «je  vous  recommande  Monsieur  que  voila!  Ayez  soin  qu'apres 
«  ma  mort  il  ne  lui  soit  fait  aucune  insulte.  Je  vous  charge  d'y  veiller.  »  Personne 
ne  repondit.  Le  Roi  voulut  repeter  avec  plus  de  force  cette  recommandation  aux 
executeurs.  L'un  d'eux  lui  coupa  la  parole.  «  Oui ,  oui ,  »  lui  dit-il  avec  un 
accent  sinistre ,  «  sois  tranquille ;  nous  en  aurons  soin  :  laisse-nous  faire. »  Louis 
descendit.    Trois  valets  du  bourreau  l'entourerent  et  voulurent  le  deshabiller  au  pied 


—  41   — 

soul,  as  senseless  as  the  wood  and  as  certain  as  tlie  steel.  At  a  signal  of  the  heads- 
man, the  ax  descended  of  itself.  This  ax,  the  heaviness  whereof  was  a  hundred-fold 
increased  by  weights  beneath  the  scaffold ,  slid  between  two  grooves  with  a  motion , 
which  was  at  once  horizontal  and  perpendicular,  like  that  of  a  saw,  and  separated 
the  head  from  the  body  with  the  impetus  of  its  fall ,  and  as  rapidly  as  lightning. 
The  sensation  of  death  (so  small  was  the  amount  of  suffering ,  and  so  short  the  time ! ) 
was  almost  nullified  by  the  manner  of  it. 

«  On  the  present  occasion ,  the  guillotine  had  been  erected  in  the  middle  of  la 
place  de  la  Revolution,  facing  the  great  walk  in  the  garden  of  the  Tuillcries,  in 
front  and  seemingly  in  derision  of  that  residence  of  kings,  and  at  only  a  trifling 
distance  from  the  fountain ,  which ,  nearest  to  the  Seine ,  plashes  on  the  stones , 
and,  as  conscious  of  the  spot,  laves  them  everlastingly! 

«  From  the  dawn  of  day,  the  approaches  to  the  scaffold ,  the  bridge  Louis  XVI , 
the  terraces  of  the  Tuilleries ,  the  parapets  on  the  river,  the  roofs  of  the  houses  in 
la  rue  Roy  ale ,  the  leafless  branches  of  the  trees  in  les  Champs  Elysees ,  were  covered 
with  a  countless  mass ,  that  was  waiting  for  the  event  with  all  the  agitation ,  with 
all  the  stir,  and  with  all  the  hubbub  of  a  human  hive,  as  though  the  thousands, 
congregated  there ,  could  not  believe  in  the  execution  of  a  king ,  unless  they  witnessed 
it  with  their  proper  eyes.  The  immediate  vicinity  of  the  guillotine  (thanks  to  the 
favour  of  the  commune  and  the  connivance  of  the  commanding  officers)  had  been 
invaded  by  the  sanguinary  band  of  the  Cordeliers,  of  the  Jacobins,  and  of  the  days 
of  September, — men,  that  would  stop  at  nothing, — men,  that  could  nothing  feel. 
Taking  their  determined  stand  about  the  scaffold,  like  official  witnesses  of  the  Republic, 
they  were  eager  that  the  death  —  the  royal  death  —  should  be  consummated  and 
approved. 

((Nevertheless,  as  the  carriage,  which  contained  his  Majesty,  came  up,  a  sudden 
and  a  solemn  stillness  fell  upon  the  crowd ,  aye ,  even  on  those  men  of  blood.  At 
a  few  paces  from  the  guillotine,  the  carriage  stopped.  The  passage  had  occupied 
two  hours. 

«The  king,  perceiving  they  were  stationary,  raised  his  eyes  from  the  book,  where 
he  steadily  had  kept  them,  and,  just  like  anybody  else,  whose  reading  is  interrupted 
for  a  moment ,  quietly  bent  forward ,  and  whispered  in  the  ear  of  his  confessor  with 
an  interrogatory  tone ;  « I  believe  ive  are  arrived  ? »  The  answer  was  a  silent  gest. 
One  of  the  three  brothers  Sanson ,  the  executioners  of  Paris ,  opened  the  coach-door. 
The  gendarmes  alighted  ,  but  his  Majesty,  pulling-to  the  door  again ,  and  placing  his 
right  hand  on  the  knee  of  his  confessor  with  an  air  of  protection ,  said  authoritatively 
to  the  heads-men ,  the  gendarmes ,  and  the  officers ,  who  pressed  about  the  wheels : 
((  Messieurs ,  /  commend  this  gentleman  to  your  care.  Take  heed ,  when  I  am  gone , 
(( that  no  affront  is  offered  him.  I  enjoin  you  to  see  to  it. »  There  was  no  reply. 
His  Majesty  was  anxious  to  reinforce  the  charge,  but  one  of  the  executioners  cut 
him  short  with  a  sinister  «  Yes  I  yes !  make  yourself  easy  :  we'll  take  care  of  him. 
«  Leave  all  that  to  us.  »  The  king  got  out.  Three  creatures  of  the  scaffold  crowded 
round ,  and  proceeded  to  divest  him  at  the  foot  of  it.     He  repulsed  them  with  dignity, 


—  42  — 

de  l'echafaud.  II  les  repoussa  avec  majeste,  ota  lui-meme  son  habit,  sa  cravate,  et 
depouilla  sa  chemise  jusqu'a  la  ceinture.  Les  executeurs  se  jeterent  alors  de  nouveau 
sur  lui.  «Que  voulez-vous  faire?»  murmura-t-il  avec  indignation.  «  Vous  lier, » 
repondirent-ils ,  et  ils  lui  tenaient  deja  les  mains  pour  les  lier  avec  leurs  cordes.  «  Me 
(dier!  »  repliqua  le  Roi  avec  un  accent  ou  toute  la  gloire  de  son  sang  se  revoltait  contre 
1'ignominie.  «Non!  non!  je  n'y  consenlirai  jamais.  Faites  votre  metier,  mais  vous 
« ne  me  lierez  pas  :  renoncez-y.  »  Les  executeurs  insistaient ,  elevaient  la  voix , 
appelaient  a  leur  aide ,  levaient  la  main  ,  preparaient  la  violence.  Une  lutte  corps  a 
corps  allait  souiller  la  victime  au  pied  de  l'echafaud.  f  Le  Roi ,  par  respect  pour  la 
diguite  de  sa  mort  et  pour  le  calme  de  sa  derniere  pensee,  regarda  le  pretre  comme 
pour  lui  demander  conseil.  «  Sire, »  dit  le  conseiller  divin ,  «  subissez  sans  resistance 
« ce  nouvel  outrage  comme  un  dernier  trait  de  ressemblance  entre  vous  et  le  Dieu , 
«qui  va  etre  votre  recompense. »  Le  Roi  leva  les  yeux  au  ciel  avec  une  expression 
du  regard ,  qui  semblait  reprocher  et  accepter  a  la  fois.  k  Assurement ,  »  dit-il , 
«il  ne  faut  rien  moins  que  1'exemple  d'un  Dieu  pour  queje  me  soumette  a  un  pareil 
v.  affront !  »  Puis  se  tournant  en  tendant  lui-meme  les  mains  vers  les  executeurs  : 
<i Faites  ce  que  vous  voudrez,»  leur  dit-il,  «je  boirai  le  calice  jusqu'a  la  lie. » 


«I1  monta,  soutenu  par  le  bras  du  pretre,  les  marches  hautes  et  glissantes  de 
l'echafaud)  Le  poids  de  son  corps  semblait  indiquer  un  affaissement  de  son  ame; 
mais,  parvenu  a  la  derniei'e  marchc,  il  s'elanca  des  mains  de  son  confesseur,  traversa 
d'un  pas  ferme  toute  la  largeur  de  l'echafaud ,  regarda  en  passant  l'instrument  et 
la  hache,  et  se  tournant  tout-a-coup  a  gauche,  en  face  de  son  palais,  et  du  cote 
ou  la  plus  grande  masse  de  peuple  pouvait  le  voir  et  l'entendre ,  il  fit  aux  tambours 
le  geste  du  silence.'  Les  tambours  obeirent  machinalement.  «  Peuple!  »  dit  Louis  XVI 
d'une  voix  qui  retentit  dans  le  silence  et  qui  fut  entendue  distinctement  de  l'autrc 
extremite  de  la  place,  « Peuple,  je  meurs  innocent  de  tous  les  crimes  qu'on  m'impute! 
«  Je  pardonne  aux  auteurs  de  ma  mort,  et  je  prie  Dieu  que  le  sang  que  vous  allez 

«repandre,  ne  retombe  jamais  sur  la  France! »     II  allait  continuer;  un  fre- 

missement  parcourait  la  foule.  Le  chef  d'etat-major  des  troupes  du  camp  de  Paris, 
le  comte  de  Beaufranchet  d'Ayat,  ordonna  aux  tambours  de  battre.  Un  roulement 
immense  et  prolonge  couvrit  la  voix  du  Roi  et  le  murmure  de  la  multitude.  Le 
condamne  revint  de  lui-meme  a  pas  lenfs  vers  la  guillotine  et  se  livre  aux  executeurs. 
Au  moment  ou  on  l'attachait  a  la  planche,  il  jeta  encore  un  regard  sur  le  pretre 
qui  priait  a  genoux  au  bord  de  l'echafaud.  II  vecut,  il  posseda  son  ame  entiere 
jusqu'au  moment  ou  il  la  remit  a  son  createur  par  les  mains  du  bourreau.  La 
planche  chavira",  la  hache  glissa,  la  tete  tomba. — Un  des  executeurs,  prenant  la 
tete  du  supplicie"  par  les  cheveux ,  la  montra  au  peuple  et  aspergea  de  sang  les 
bords  de  l'echafaud.  Des  federes  et  des  republicans  fanatiques  monterent  sur  les 
planches,  tremperent  les  pointes  de  leurs  sabres  et  les  lances  de  leurs  piques  dans 
le  sang ,  et  les  bondirent  vers  le  ciel  en  poussant  le  cri  de  « vive  la  Republique ! » 
L'horreur  de  cet  acte  etouffa  le  miime  cri  sur  les  levrcs  du  peuple.    L'acclamation 


—  43  — 

took  off  his  coat  himself,  his  cravat,  and  his  shirt ,  and  was  thus  denuded  to  the 
waist.  The  underlings  came  round  again.  «  What  is  your  pleasure  now?»  He 
indignantly  inquired.  «  To  bind  you,  »  they  replied,  and,  suiting  the  action  to  the 
word,  seized  his  wrists,  to  tie  them  with  the  rope. — uBind  me!»  cried  the  Capet 
in  a  haughty  tone,  which  spurned  at  the  degradation,  and  was  full  of  all  the  blood 
of  all  his  race,  «bind  me!  no,  no,  never  loill  1  stoop  to  that.  Do  your  office,  but 
«  bind  me  you  shall  not.  Cease  to  think  of  it.  »  The  others  insisted ,  raised  their 
voices,  called  for  help,  lifted  their  hands,  prepared  to  strike.  A  little  more,  and 
a  scuffle  with  the  scum  would  have  sullied  royalty,  and  debased  the  victim  at  the 
foot  of  the  guillotine.  But  Louis  was  himself  again.  Partly  from  respect  for  the 
dignity  of  his  death,  partly  for  the  quiet  of  his  dying  thoughts,  the  king  demanded 
counsel  of  the  priest.  «Sire!»  replied  the  man  of  God,  « submit.  Endure  without 
«  resistance  this  added  outrage ,  and  hail  it  as  the  last  trait  of  resemblance  between 
«  yourself  and  Him,  Who  soon  will  be  your  recompense .  »  The  Monarch  raised  his 
eyes  and  looked  above ,  but  with  a  mixed  expression  in  them ,  which  spake  at  once 
of  resignation  and  reproach.  «  Of  a  sooth ,  »  said  he ,  « the  example  of  a  God  alone — 
«  and  nothing  less  —  could  reconcile  me  to  an  infamy  like  this  I »  Then ,  turning 
round  and  stretching  out  his  hands  to  the  executioners,  he  murmured  to  them  :  a  Do 
«  your  will :  I  will  drink  the  cup,  aye  ,  even  to  the  dregs  !  » 

«  Supported  by  the  arm  of  the  priest,  he  ascended  the  high  and  slippy  scaffold-steps. 
The  languor  of  his  body  seemed  to  indicate  a  sinking  of  the  spirit ,  but  no  sooner  had 
he  reached  the  top,  than,  loosing  himself  from  the  hold  of  his  confessor,  he  walked 
across  the  floor  with  a  firm  and  rapid  foot ,  bestowed  a  passing  glance  upon  the  fatal 
ax ,  and ,  suddenly  turning  to  the  left ,  in  front  of  his  palace ,  and  where  he  could  best 
be  seen  and  best  be  heard ,  he  made  a  sign  for  the  drums  to  cease.  The  drummers 
mechanically  obeyed.  «  People ! »  said  Louis  XVI  with  a  loud  voice ,  rendered  louder 
by  the  silence ,  and  distinctly  audible  at  the  other  extremity  of  the  square  :  «  People ! 
«  /  die  innocent  of  the  crimes,  with  which  I  am  accused.  I  forgive  the  authors  of  my 
a  death,  and  I  pray  God,  that  the  blood,  which  you  are  now  about  to  shed,  may  finish 

«  here ,  and  never  fall  on  France ! »     He  was  going  to  say  more a  thrill  of  pity  was 

running  through  the  crowd.  The  drum-major  of  the  troops,  which  formed  the  camp 
of  Paris,  the  count  de  Beaufranchet  d'-Ayat,  commanded  the  drums  to  beat.  A  loud 
long  roll  succeeded ,  that  drowned  alike  the  accents  of  the  king  and  the  murmur  of  the 
multitude.  The  unhappy  Monarch,  with  a  heavy  step,  returned  towards  the  guillotine, 
and  consigned  himself  to  the  executioners.  As  he  was  being  fastened  to  the  board ,  he 
directed  a  last  look  at  the  confessor,  who  was  down  upon  his  knees ,  praying  on  the 
edge  of  the  scaffold.  He  lived ,— the  perfect  master  of  his  mind , — till ,  summoned  by 
the  hand  of  man ,  he  gave  his  soul  to  God.  The  plank  swerved — the  ax  slid— the  head 
fell.  One  of  the  executioners  took  and  held  the  latter  by  the  hair,  showed  it  the  assem- 
blage, and  ,  skirting  the  scaffold  as  he  did  so ,  besprinkled  it  with  blood.  Some  of  the 
fe'de'res  and  fanatic  republicans  clambered  on  the  stage,  dipped  the  points  of  their 
weapons  in  the  gore, — their  swords,  their  lances,  and  their  pikes, — and  brandished 
them  aloft  to  the  cry  of  «  Vive  la  Bepublique  I »  The  same  cry  upon  the  lips  of  the 


—  44   — 

ressembla  plutdt  a  un  immense  sanglot.  La  foule  s'ecoula  en  silence.  On  emporta 
les  restes  de  Louis  XVI  dans  un  tombereau  couvert  au  cimetiere  de  la  Madeleine, 
et  on  jeta  de  la  chaux  dans  la  fosse  pour  que  les  osscments  consumes  de  la  victime 
de  la  Revolution  ne  devinssent  pas  un  jour  les  reliques  du  royalisme.  Les  rues 
se  viderent.  Des  bandes  de  federes  armes  parcoururent  les  quartiers  de  Paris  en 
annoncant  la  mort  du  tyran  et  en  chantant  le  sanguinaire  refrain  de  la  Marseillaise. 
Aucun  enthousiasme  ne  leur  repondit  :  la  ville  resta  muette.  Le  peuple  ne  confondit 
pas  un  supplice  avec  une  victoire.  La  consternation  etait  rentree  avec  la  liberte  dans 
la  demeure  des  citoyens.  Le  corps  du  Roi  n'etait  pas  encore  refroidi  sur  l'echafaud 
que  le  peuple  ne  doutait  de  1'acte  qu'il  venait  d'accomplir  et  se  demandait,  avec  une 
anxiete  voisine  du  remords ,  si  le  sang ,  qu'il  venait  de  repandre ,  etait  une  tache 
sur  la  gloire  de  la  France  ou  le  sceau  de  la  liberte?  La  conscience  des  republicans 
eux-memes  se  troubla  devant  cet  echafaud.  La  mort  du  Roi  laissait  un  probleme 
a.  debattre  a  la  nation. » 


Livre  35.  Sections  21  et  22. 

ENR&LEMENT  ET  MAUCHE  DES  VOLOKTAIRES. 

«  Dans  les  villes ,  dans  les  bourgades ,  dans  les  villages ,  les  jours  oil  les  fetes  de  la 
religion  et  les  foires  reunissent  les  homines  par  plus  grandes  masses ,  un  amphitheatre 
en  bois  s'elevait  sur  la  place  publique,  sur  la  place  d'armes,  devant  la  porte  de  la 
municipalite.  Une  tente  militaire ,  soutenue  par  des  faisceaux  de  piques  et  surmontee 
de  drapeaux  tricolores,  etait  tendue  sur  ces  treteaux  pour  rappeler  le  camp.  Cette 
tente ,  dont  les  toiles  etaient  relevees ,  sur  le  devant ,  par  la  main  d'un  grenadier  et 
d'un  cavalier  en  uniforme ,  s'ouvrait  du  cote  du  peuple.  Une  table  portant  des 
registres  d'enrolement  en  occupait  le  centre.  Le  representant  du  peuple  en  mission , 
l'echarpe  tricolore  en  ceinture,  le  chapeau  retrousse  par  les  bords,  surmonte  d'un 
panache  a  plumes,  tenait  le  registrc  et  ecrivait  les  engagements.  Le  maire,  les  officiers 
municipaux,  les  presidents  de  districts,  les  presidents  de  clubs  se  pressaient  debout 
autour  de  lui.  La  foule  emue  s'ouvrait  a  chaque  instant ,  pour  laisser  passer  les  files 
de  defenseurs  de  la  patrie ,  qui  montaient  les  degres  de  l'estrade  pour  donner  leurs 
noms  aux  commissaires.  Les  applaudissements  du  peuple  ,  les  accolades  patriotiques 
des  representants,  les  larmes  d'attendrissement  des  meres  de  famille,  les  fanfares  de  la 
musique  militaire ,  les  roulements  de  tambours  ,  les  couplets  de  la  Marseillaise 
chantes  en  chceur  recompensaient ,  excitaient ,  enivraient  ces  actes  de  devouement  au 
salut  de  la  Republique. 

«  Cet  enthousiasme  contagieux  qui  saisit  les  foules  s'emparait  souvent  des  spectateurs 
et  portait  les  hommcs,  jusque-la  indifferents  ou  timides,  a  imiter  les  actes  dont  ils 


—  45  — 

people  was  stifled  by  the  horror  of  the  deed.  The  shout,  in  fact,  was  a  burst  of 
grief, — a  universal  sob !  The  throng  dispersed  in  silence.  The  remains  of  Louis  XVI 
were  carried  in  a  covered  cart  to  the  cemetery  of  la  Madeleine,  where  a  quantity  of 
lime  was  thrown  into  the  grave,  to  the  end  that,  being  thus  consumed,  the  bones  of 
the  victim  of  the  Revolution  might  not,  on  a  future  day,  be  sanctified  as  reliques  of 
royalty.  The  thousands,  that  had  witnessed  the  spectacle,  were  disappearing  from  the 
streets.  Bands ,  however,  of  fMcres  in  arms  perambulated  the  quartiers  of  Paris  , 
announcing,  as  they  termed  it,  the  death  of  the  tyrant,  and  singing,  as  they  went 
.along,  the  sanguinary  burden  of  la  Marseillaise.  But  they  met  with  no  response  : 
enthusiasm  and  the  city  both  were  dumb.  The  people  could  not  confound  an  execution 
with  a  victory.  If  freedom  had  entered  the  dwelling  of  the  subject,  why,  so  had 
consternation  too.  Before  the  body  of  the  king  was  chill  upon  the  scaffold,  the 
people  mistrusted  their  own  act,  and  asked  themselves  with  a  feeling  of  disquietude, 
which  bordered  on  remorse,  whether  the  blood,  which  they  just  had  spilt,  was  the 
seal  of  liberty  or  the  stain  of  France.  Yes ,  in  the  face  of  that  eventful  scaffold ,  I  say, 
the  republicans  themselves  were  ill  at  ease,  for  their  consciences  were  smit.  The 
death  of  the  king  bequeathed  a  problem  to  the  nation, — a  problem  for  the  nation 
to  dispute  about, — a  problem  for  the  nation  to  resolve. 

Book  35.  Sections  21  and  22. 

ENROLMENT  AND  MARCH  OF  THE  VOLUNTEERS. 

(<  In  the  larger  and  the  smaller  towns,  —  in  the  villages  as  well, — when  &  fete- 
day  or  a  fair  attracted  a  mass  of  population ,  a  wooden  amphitheatre  was  raised 
upon  La  Place, — on  the  exercising  ground, — in  front  of  the  Corporation-hall.  A 
military  tent,  supported  here  and  there  by  halberds  and  by  pikes,  with  tri-coloured 
flags  upon  the  top ,  canopied  the  stage ,  and  served ,  as  it  drew  the  notice  of  the 
crowd,  to  remind  them  of  the  camp.  The  tent,  the  linen  curtains  of  which  were 
held  up  by  a  grenadier  and  a  trooper  in  uniform ,  was  open  on  the  side ,  that  was 
opposite  the  people.  A  table,  with  recruiting  lists,  occupied  the  centre  of  it.  The 
delegate  of  the  Republic,  wearing  a  tri-coloured  scarf  about  the  waist,  and  his  hat, 
with  a  plume  of  feathers  in  it ,  turned  up  at  the  brim  ,  was  the  keeper  of  the  lists ,  and 
registered  the  volunteers.  The  Mayor  and  the  Corporation ,  the  presidents  of  the 
districts  and  the  clubs,  were  pressing  round  him  as  he  sat.  The  multitude,  affected  by 
the  scene ,  momently  made  way  for  the  defenders  of  their  country,  as  the  latter  passed 
in  files  and  mounted  on  the  platform ,  to  give  in  their  names  to  the  commissioners. 
The  acclamations  of  the  populace,  the  patriotic  embraces  of  the  deputies,  the  outbursts 
of  maternal  tenderness ,  the  flourish  of  the  martial  music ,  the  rolling  of  the  drums , 
the  stanzas  of  La  Marseillaise,  as  sung  by  the  recruits  in  chorus,  rewarded  and  excited 
these  acts  of  devotion  to  la  patrie,  intoxicating,  as  it  were,  the  rest  with  the  example, 
to  enroll  themselves  and  fight  for  the  weal  of  the  Republic. 

«  The  same  contagious  zeal ,  which  took  possession  of  the  crowd ,  would  often  seize 
upon  the  standers-by  and  occasion  many,  who  had  thitherto  been  timid  or  supine,  to 


—  46  — 

etaient  temoins.  Des  hommes  maries  s'arrachaient  des  bras  de  leiirs  femmes  pour 
s'elancer  vers  l'autel  de  la  patrie.  Des  hommes  deja  avances  dans  la  vie ,  des  vieillards 
meme  encore  verts  et  valides  venaient  offrir  leur  reste  de  vie  au  salut  du  pays.  On 
les  voyait  oter  leurs  vestes  ou  leurs  habits  devant  les  representants ,  et  montrer  a  nu 
leurs  poitrines,  leurs  epaules,  leurs  bras,  leurs  poignets  encore  robustes,  pour  attester 
que  leurs  membres  avaient  la  force  de  porter  le  sac ,  le  fusil ,  et  de  braver  les  fatigues 
du  camp.  Des  peres,  se  devouant  avec  leurs  enfants,  offraient  eux-memes  leurs  fils  a 
la  patrie  et  demandaient  a  marcher  avec  eux.  Des  femmes,  pour  suivre  leurs  maris 
ou  leurs  amants ,  ou  saisies  elles-memes  de  ce  delire  de  la  liberte  et  de  la  patrie , 
le  plus  genereux  et  le  plus  devoue  de  tous  les  amours ,  depouillaient  les  vetements 
de  leur  sexe ,  revetaient  l'uniforme  de  volontaires  et  s'enrolaient  dans  les  bataillons 
de  leurs  departements. 

«  Ces  volontaires  recevaient  une  feuille  de  route  pour  se  rendre  au  de"pot  designe 
par  le  ministre  de  la  guerre  et  y  recevoir  l'equipement ,  l'instruction  et  l'organisation. 
lis  se  mettaient  en  marche,  par  groupes  plus  ou  moins  nombreux,  au  son  du  tambour, 
aux  refrains  de  l'hymne  patriotique,  accompagnes,  jusqu'a  une  grande  distance  de 
leurs  villes  ou  de  leurs  villages,  par  des  meres,  des  freres,  des  soeurs,  des  fiancees, 
qui  portaient  les  sacs  et  les  amies ,  et  qui  ne  se  separaient  d'eux  que  quand  la  fatigue 
avait  epuise  leurs  forces.  Partout ,  aux  embranchements  des  routes ,  aux  sommets 
des  montees,  aux  entrees  ou  aux  sorties  des  villes,  aux  portes  des  auberges  isolees 
ou  ces  detachements  faisaient  halte ,  les  voyageurs  etaient  temoins  de  ses  separations 
et  de  ces  adieux.  Les  volontaires,  attardes  par  ces  derniers  embrassements ,  s'es- 
suyaient  les  yeux  en  regagnant  a  pas  presses  le  noyau  du  bataillon ,  et ,  sans  regarder 
en  arriere  de  peur  d'hesiter  et  de  s'attendrir,  reprenaient  d'une  voix  sourde  mais 
resolue  le  couplet  de  la  ^Marseillaise  chante  par  leurs  camarades : 


«  Allons ,  enfans  de  la  patrie  !  » 


«  La  population  des  villes  et  des  bourgades  qu'ils  traversaient  sortait  pour  les  voir 
passer  et  pour  leur  offrir  le  pain  et  le  vin ,  sur  le  seuil  de  leurs  maisons.  On  se 
disputait,  dans  les  lieux  d'etape,  a  qui  les  logerait  comme  des  enfants  de  famille. 
Les  societes  patriotiques  allaient  a  leur  rencontre  ou  les  conviaient  le  soir  a  assister  a 
leur  seance.  Le  president  les  haranguait;  les  orateurs  du  club  fraternisaient  avec 
eux  et  enflammaient  leur  courage  par  des  recits  d'exploits  militaires  empruntes  aux 
histoires  de  l'antiquite.  On  leur  enseignait  les  hymnes  des  deux  Tyrtees  de  la  Re- 
yolution ,  les  poetes  Lebrun  et  Chenier.  On  les  enivrait  de  la  sainte  rage  de  la  patrie, 
du  fanatisme  de  la  liberte !  » 


Livre  36.  Section  23. 


—  47  — 

emulate  the  act  and  copy  what  they  witnessed.  Husbands,  for  instance,  would  tear 
themselves  away  from  the  embraces  of  their  wives,  and  hasten  to  the  altar  of  their 
country.  Seniors— nay,  the  old,  such  of  them,  that  is,  as  were  hale  and  hardy  still, 
— la  patrie  thus  endangered , — went  and  offered  up  their  residue  of  life.  Their  coats 
and  jackets  off,  they  showed  the  deputies  their  naked  chests,  their  brawny  arms,  their 
shoulders,  and  their  wrists,  and  bade  them  see  how  vigorous  they  were,  how  equal  to 
the  knapsack  and  the  musket ,  and  how  fitted  for  the  labours  of  the  camp.  Fathers  , 
devoting  their  children  and  themselves,  would  dedicate  their  sons  to  the  service  of 
the  commonwealth ,  and  pray  to  follow  with  them  to  the  field.  Women  even ,  to 
accompany  their  husbands  or  their  lovers ,  or  volunteers ,  it  may  be ,  from  that  holiest 
of  passions, — the  patriotic  love  of  liberty, — would  cast  aside  the  garments  of  their 
sex,  adopt  the  uniform  of  the  recruits,  and  enlist  in  the  battalions  of  their  several 
localities. 

«  The  volunteers  were  furnished  with  a  way-bill ,  to  guide  them  to  the  destination  , 
specified  by  the  Minister  of  War  :  it  was  there  they  would  be  clothed  and  organized 
and  drilled.  In  bands,  more  or  less  numerous,  they  started  to  the  beating  of  the  drum 
and  the  burthen  of  the  patriotic  hymn,  accompanied  afar  from  their  villages  and  towns 
by  their  mothers ,  by  their  brothers ,  their  sisters  and  affianced  brides ,  who  relieved 
them  of  their  knapsacks  and  their  arms,  and  who  only  parted  with  them  at  last  from 
downright  exhaustion  and  fatigue.  In  every  direction , — at  the  junction  of  the  roads, 
— at  the  tops  of  the  ascents, — at  the  entries  and  the  exits  of  the  many-graded  burghs, 
— at  the  sill  of  solitary  cabarets ,  wherever  the  detachments  might  chance  to  make  a 
halt , — the  traveller  bore  witness  to  these  tender  separations ,  to  these  natural  adieux. 
Such  of  the  recruits,  as  had  lingered  behind  for  these  affectionate  farewells,  would 
brush  away  their  tears ,  as  they  ran  to  overtake  the  heart  of  the  battalion ,  and  then , 
without  a  turning  of  the  head  for  fear  of  hesitation  or  unmanliness ,  would  strike  up 
afresh,  in  an  altered  but  determined  tone  of  voice,  the  stanza  of  la  Marseillaise,  as 
sung  by  the  companions  of  their  march  : 

«  Allons !  enfans  do  la  patrie !  » 

« In  the  city  or  the  hamlet,  (it  was  all  the  same , )  the  inhabitants  would  sally  from 
their  houses ,  to  see  them  as  they  passed  along ,  or,  standing  on  the  threshold  of  their 
doors,  would  offer  to  them  bread  and  wine.  When  they  halted  for  the  night,  it  was  a 
question  as  to  who  should  entertain  them  best.  The  patriotic  societies  would  go  and 
meet  them  on  the  way,  and  beg  of  them  to  come  to  their  evening  assemblies.  The 
president  would  praise  them  in  a  speech ;  the  orators  of  the  club  would  fraternize  with 
them,  and  stimulate  their  courage  with  heroic  deeds  of  arms,  borrowed  and  recited 
from  the  pages  of  antiquity.  They  were  taught  the  war-songs  of  the  two  Tyrtcei  of  the 
Revolution ,  the  poets  Lebrun  and  Joseph  Chenier ;  and  thus ,  from  conspiring  causes , 
they  became  intoxicated — those  votaries  of  freedom— with  a  sort  of  frantic  fervour  for 
their  native  land  ! » 

Book  3G.  Section  23. 


—  48  — 


BATAILLE   DE   JEMMAPPES. 


«  Telle  etait  la  situation  de  nos  colonnes  d'attaque  sur  les  plateaux  de  Cuesmes  quand 
Dumouriez  y  arriva.  Mais,  impatient  d'une  halte  qui ,  en  suspendant  l'elan  des  troupes, 
leur  donnait  le  temps  de  compter  les  morts  et  la  tentation  de  reculer,  le  general 
Dampierre  ,  commandant  sous  Beurnonville  ,  n'attend  pas  que  Dumouriez  lui  ravisse 
la  gloire  ou  la  mort.  Dans  une  charge  desesperee ,  Dampierre  enleve  du  gesle  et  de  la 
voix  le  regiment  de  Flandre  et  le  bataillon  de  volontaires  des  voltigeurs  de  Paris, 
enfants  perdus  qui  apportent  sur  le  champ  de  bataille  le  fanatisme  theatral  mais 
hero'ique  des  Jacobins.  II  agite  de  la  main  gauche  le  panache  tricolore  de  son  chapeau 
de  general ,  appelle  du  mouvement  de  son  epee  le  bataillon  qu'il  precede  de  cent  pas , 
seul  expose  a  la  mitraille  des  redoutes  et  au  feu  des  Hongrois.  La  mort ,  qui  l'attendait 
si  pres  de  la  sur  un  autre  champ  de  bataille ,  semble  Feviter.  II  marcha  sans  etre 
atteint.  Le  regiment  de  Flandre  et  le  bataillon  de  Paris,  rassures  en  le  voyant  debout, 
s'elancent  au  pas  de  course,  et  le  rejoiguent  aux  cris  de  vive  la  Republique !  rompant  a 
la  baionnette  les  bataillons  Hongrois  et  entrent  sur  leurs  pas  dans  les  deux  redoutes, 
dont  ils  retournent  les  pieces  contre  1'ennemi.  Dumouriez  et  Beurnonville ,  guidant 
en  face  et  a  droite  les  deux  autres  colonnes,  au  pas  de  charge,  les  lancent  sur  le 
plateau  dejii  balaye  par  Dampierre.  Les  cris  de  victoire  et  le  drapeau  tricolore  plante 
sur  la  seconde  redoute  semblent  annoncer  a  Dumouriez  que  Cuesmes  est  a  lui  et  qu'il 
est  temps  d'attaquer  un  centre  dont  les  deux  ailes  sont  en  retraite  et  dont  les  flancs 
peuvent  etre  decouverts. 


« II  court  au  galop  pour  donner  l'ordre  a  la  masse  de  ses  trente-cinq  mille  combat- 
tants  d'aborder  enfln  les  hauteurs  fortiGees  qui  lient  le  village  de  Cuesmes  a  celui  de 
Jemmappes.  Ces  nombreux  bataillons  ecoutaient,  immobiles  et  1'arme  au  bras  depuis 
l'aurore,  les  decharges  d'artillerie  qui  se  repondaient  d'une  aile  a  l'autre.  Le  vent  qui 
soufflait  de  Jemmappes  leur  jetait  avec  le  son  du  bronze  les  flocons  de  la  fumee  et 
l'odeur  enivrante  de  la  poudre.  Ils  etaient  impatients  de  charger  et  murmuraient 
contre  la  lenteur  de  leur  general. 

« Au  signal  de  Dumouriez ,  la  ligne  entiere  s'ebranle ,  se  forme  par  bataillons  en 
trois  epaisses  et  longues  colonnes,  entonne  simultanement  le  chant  de  la  Marseillaise , 
et  traverse  au  pas  de  course  la  plaine  etroite  qui  la  separe  des  hauteurs.  Les  cent 
vingt  canons  des  batteries  autrichiennes  vomissent  coup  sur  coup  leurs  boulets  et 
leurs  obus  sur  ces  colonnes,  qui  ne  repondent  que  par  l'hymne  des  combats.  Les 
coups,  vises  trop  haut,  passent  par-dessus  la  tete  des  soldats  et  n'atteignent  que 
les  derniers  rangs.  Deux  des  colonnes  commencent  a  gravir  les  coteaux.  La  lenteur 
du  general  d'Haryille ,  le  calme  de  Clairfayt ,  1'intrepidite  des  Hongrois ,  des  Tyroliens 
et  de  la  cavaleiie  autrichienne ,  tromperent  ces  esperances  de  Dumouriez.     Le  due 


—  49  — 


BATTLE    OF    JEMMAPPES. 


«  Such  was  the  situation  of  our  attacking  columns  on  the  table-lands  of  Cuesmes, 
when  Dumouriez  arrived  there.  But,  impatient  of  a  halt,  which,  in  checking  the 
ardour  of  the  troops ,  was  giving  them  the  time  to  look  around  them  and  to  reckon 
up  their  dead,— nay,  might  engender,  perhaps,  a  disposition  to  retreat, — General 
Dampierre,  who  commanded  under  Beurnonville, — jealous  of  the  choice  of  glory  or 
of  death , — anticipates  Dumouriez  and  commences  operations  himself.  In  a  desperate 
charge ,  his  action  and  his  voice  carry  with  him,  as  it  were ,  the  regiment  of  Flanders 
and  the  battalion  of  volunteers ,  the  sharpshooters  of  Paris,— those  friendless  children 
of  the  streets,  that  transfer  upon  the  battle-field  the  scenic  spirit  of  the  Jacobins. 
Waving,  in  his  left  hand ,  the  tricoloured  feather  of  his  general's  hat ,  and  holding  in 
his  right  a  sabre,  which  motions  the  battalion  to  follow  him,  he  advances,  a  hundred 
yards  ahead  and  perfectly  alone ,  obnoxious  to  the  play  of  the  redoubts  and  the  fire  of 
the  Hungarians.  Death ,  which  is  waiting  for  him  on  another  and  so  nigh  a  plain , 
seems  to  shun  him  upon  this.  He  proceeds  without  a  scratch.  The  regiment  of 
Flanders  and  the  battalion  of  Paris,  on  the  strength  of  seeing  him  unhurt,  come 
pouring  forward  ,  double-quick  time  ,  and  overtake  him  to  the  cry  of  vive  la 
republique!  The  Hungarian  squadrons  are  broken  in  a  moment,  and  our  soldiers, 
bayonet  in  hand  and  close  upon  their  heels,  enter  the  redoubts  and  turn  the  guns 
upon  the  enemy.  Dumouriez  and  Beurnonville,  directing  the  two  other  columns  in 
front  and  to  the  right,  march  them  at  full  speed  and  mount  them  on  the  table- 
land ,  which  has  just  been  swept  by  Dampierre.  The  sounds  of  victory  and  the 
tricoloured  flag,  planted  on  the  second  redoubt,  appear  to  tell  Dumouriez,  that  he 
is  master  of  Cuesmes ,  and  that  it  is  time  for  him  to  attack  a  centre ,  the  wings 
of  which  are  already  in  retreat,  and  the  flanks  of  which  may  be  easily  exposed. 

«  He  gallops  to  the  mass  of  his  five-and-thirty  thousand  warriors  and  orders  them 
at  length  to  scale  the  fortified  heights ,  which  connect  the  villages  of  Cuesmes  and 
Jemmappes.  These  numerous  battalions,  from  the  dawn  of  day,  immoveable,  and 
with  their  muskets  in  the  hollow  of  the  arm,  had  been  listening  to  the  discharges 
of  artillery,  which  were  bandied  from  wing  to  wing.  The  breezes  from  Jemmappes 
kept  wafting  to  them ,  together  with  the  roaring  of  the  cannon ,  patches  of  the  smoke 
and  the  inebriating  smell  of  powder.  They  were  burning  to  be  at  it,  and  were  angry 
at  the  slowness  of  their  general. 

«At  the  signal  of  Dumouriez,  the  entire  line,  immediately  in  motion,  forms  itself  by 
battalions  into  three  dense  and  elongated  columns ,  simultaneously  strikes  up  la 
Marseillaise ,  and ,  at  full  speed ,  traverses  the  narrow  plain ,  which  divides  it  from 
the  heights.  A  hundred  and  twenty  pieces  of  ordnance ,  from  the  Austrian  batteries , 
are  vomiting,  volley  after  volley,  their  bullets  and  their  balls;  but  the  only  answer 
of  the  columns  is  the  war-song  of  de  Lisle.  The  shot,  aimed  too  high,  pass  over 
the  heads  of  our  soldiers  and  spend  themselves  in  the  farthest  ranks.  Two  of  the 
columns  are  beginning  the  ascent.  The  leisurely  movements  of  General  d'Herville , 
the  coolness  of  Clairfayt ,  the  gallantry  of  the  Hungarians ,  the  Tyrolese ,  and  the 


—  50  — 

de  Saxe-Teschen  et  Clairfayt  se  retirerent  lentement  et  encore  menacants,  entrerent 
dans  Mons  sans  etre  poursuivis  et  refermerent  sur  eux  les  portes.  La  renommee  d'une 
victoire  et  un  champ  de  bataille  furent  les  seules  conquetes  de  Dumouriez.  La 
fatigue,  l'epuisement  de  munitions,  de  sang  et  de  force  d'une  armee  qui  combattait 
ou  bivouaquait  depuis  quatre  jours,  le  besoin  de  nourriture  enfln,  obligerent  le  general 
en  chef  a  donner  deux  heures  de  repos  aux  troupes.  On  leur  fit  une  distribution 
de  pain  et  d'eau-de-vie  sur  le  champ  de  bataille.  Cette  halte  sur  des  redoutes  em- 
portees ,  sur  des  plateaux  escalades ,  sur  des  villages  incendies ,  au  milieu  de  mourants 
et  de  morts,  pendant  laquelle  les  chant  de  Qa  ira  et  de  la  Marseillaise  repondaient 
aux  gemissements  des  blesses ,  offrait  a  l'ceil  de  Dumouriez ,  qui  la  parcourait  au  pas 
de  son  cheval,  le  tableau  de  ses  pertes  et  de  sa  victoire.  Ge  general  etait  assez 
philosophe  pour  deplorer,  assez  militaire  pour  braver  ce  spectacle,  assez  ambitieux 
pour  en  jouir.  11  n'avait  perdu  aucun  de  ses  confidents  et  de  ses  amis  Thouvenot,  le 
due  de  Chartres,  le  due  de  Montpensier,  Beurnonville,  Ferranot,  le  fidele  et  brave 
Baptiste ,  les  deux  jeunes  et  belles  heroines  Felicite  et  Theophile  Fernig  l'accompa- 
gnaient  a  cheval,  pleurant  les  morts,  relevant  et  consolant  les  blesses.  Une  triple 
acclamation  s'elevait  a  l'approclie  de  Dumouriez  du  sein  des  brigades ,  des  regiments, 
des  bataillons.  Nul  blesse  ne  lui  reprochait  son  sang  ,  tous  les  survivants  lui  faisaient 
hommage  de  la  victoire  et  de  la  vie.  Les  images  qui  salissaient  le  ciel  le  matin , 
rompus  et  rejetes  aux  deux  extremites  de  l'horizon  par  les  decharges  de  I'artillerie, 
laissaient  briller  un  clair  soleil  d'automne  sur  l'espace  que  couvrait  l'armee.  D'epais 
tlocons  de  fumee  de  poudre  rampaient ,  ca  et  la ,  aux  flancs  des  plateaux  entre 
Cuesmes  et  Jemmappes.  Quelques  maisons  allumees  par  l'obus,  et  quelques  bruyeres 
incendiees  par  les  cartouches  dans  le  bois  de  Flenu ,  brulaient  encore.  Trente  ou 
quarante  pieces  de  canon  abandonnees  avec  leurs  caissons  jonchaient  les  redoutes. 
Quatre  mille  cadavres  d'Autrichiens  et  de  Hongrois  etaient  couches  dans  leur  sang, 
sur  les  pentes  ou  sur  l'extremite  avancee  du  plateau  de  Jemmappes.  Douze  cents 
chevaux  de  I'artillerie  ou  de  la  cavalerie  autrichienne  achevaient  d'expirer,  la  tete 
languissamment  relevee  et  la  bride  encore  passee  au  bras  de  leurs  cavaliers  morts. 


«La  riviere  de  l'Haine  et  le  marais  que  cette  riviere  traverse  montraient  ca  et  la 
des  groupes  d'hommes  et  de  chevaux  qui  se  debattaient  dans  les  eaux  ou  dans  la 
fange.  Deux  mille  cadavres  francais  et  plus  de  deux  mille  chevaux ,  le  poitrail  ou 
le  flanc  perces  de  boulets  de  canon ,  attestaient  le  ravage  des  redoutes  autrichiennes 
dans  les  rangs  de  I'artillerie  et  de  la  cavalerie  francaises  qui  les  avaient  abordees 
par  la  gorge.  Des  escaliers  de  cadavres  marquaient  de  distance  en  distance  les  pas 
des  bataillons  et  les  intervalles  laisses  par  la  mort  entre  une  decharge  et  l'autre. 

«  Presque  tous  les  coups  qui  avaient  frappe  les  assaillants  etaient  mortels.   Seulement 


—  51   — 

Austrian  cavalry,  are  so  many  disappointments  to  Dumouriez.  The  Duke  of  Saxe- 
Teschen  and  Clairfayt ,  with  a  lion-like  retreat ,  enter  Mons  unmolested  and  close 
the  gates  behind  them.  The  reputation  of  a  triumph  and  a  field  of  battle  are  the 
only  trophies  of  Dumouriez.  The  fatigue  of  an  army,  which  has  been  fighting  or 
bivouacing  for  four  successive  days, — the  draining  of  their  means,  of  their  blood, 
their  strength , — their  need  of  nourishment ,  in  short, — obliges  the  general-in-chief  to 
accord  his  men  two  hours'  rest.  A  distribution  of  brandy  and  of  bread  takes  place 
upon  the  battle-field.  A  halt ,  like  this ,  upon  the  redoubts ,  which  they  had  carried , 
— on  the  heights,  which  they  had  scaled, — on  the  villages,  which  they  had  fired,— in 
the  centre  of  the  dying  and  the  dead ,  and  where  the  anguish  of  the  wounded  was 
responded  to  by  «  Qa  ira»  and  «.la  Marsei 'liaise, » — the  halt  in  question,  I  say, 
presented  to  the  eye  of  Dumouriez,  (who,  riding  up  and  down,  observed  it  all,)  the 
picture  of  his  losses  and  his  gains.  Philosophical  enough  to  deplore  ,  martial 
enough  to  brave,  ambitious  enough  to  enjoy,  the  sight,— such  were  the  blended 
feelings  of  the  general.  Happily,  he  had  lost  none  of  his  friends  or  his  confidantes. 
Thouvenot,  the  due  de  Chartres,  the  due  de  Montpensier.  Beurnonville,  Ferranot,  the 
true  and  brave  Baptiste,  the  two  young  and  handsome  heroines,  Felicite  and  Theophile 
Fernig,  accompanied  him  on  horseback ,  at  one  time  weeping  for  the  dead ,  at  another 
alighting  to  the  ground ,  to  pity  and  to  help  the  hurt.  A  threefold  acclamation ,  at 
the  approach  of  Dumouriez ,  burst  from  the  battalions  and  the  regiments  and  brigades. 
There  were  none,  that  reproached  him  with  their  wounds-,  but  all,  upon  the  contrary, 
that  escaped  with  life,  assigned  the  victory  to  him,  and  honoured  him  accordingly. 
The  clouds ,  that  had  gathered  in  the  sky  and  discoloured  it  at  morn , — dispersed 
and  driven  to  the  bounds  of  the  horizon  by  the  discharges  of  artillery,— allowed  the 
sun  of  autumn  to  appear  and  to  shine  upon  the  space ,  which  was  covered  by  the 
troops.  Patches  of  smoke,  every  here  and  there,  were  clinging  to  the  heights,  or 
melting ,  in  sulphureous  wreaths ,  from  the  platforms  of  Cuesmes  and  Jemmappcs. 
Some  habitations,  set  on  fire  by  the  howitzers,  and  some  heather  by  the  balls  in 
the  forest  of  Flenu,  were  unextinguished  still.  Thirty  or  forty  pieces  of  ordnance, 
abandoned  with  their  carriages ,  were  strewing  the  redoubts.  Four  thousand  bodies 
of  Austrians  or  Hungarians  were  lying  in  their  blood ,  some  upon  the  slopes ,  some 
upon  the  jutting  end  of  the  platform  of  Jemmappes.  Twelve  hundred  horses  of 
the  Austrian  artillery  or  cavalry  had  just  expired ,  with  their  languid  heads  a  little 
in  the  air,  and  their  bridles ,  as  before ,  hanging  from  the  hands  of  their  perished 
cavaliers. 

«The  Haine  and  the  morass,  which  the  river  traverses,  discovered  in  places  a 
conglomerated  group  ,  that  struggled  in  the  water  or  the  mud.  Two  thousand  French 
corpses  and  more  than  as  many  horses ,  struck  in  the  chest  or  in  the  side  by  cannon- 
balls,  bore  witness  to  the  havoc ,  made  by  the  Austrian  redoubts  in  the  ranks  of  our 
artillery  and  cavalry,  that  had  entered  them  by  the  gorge.  At  certain  distances, 
again ,  a  stair  of  carcases  showed  plainly  where  the  battalions  had  advanced ,  and  the 
intervals ,  which  death  had  left ,  between  the  discharge  of  one  volley  and  another. 

«  Nearly  every  shot ,  which  had  struck  the  assaillants ,  was  mortal.    Some  twelve  or 


—  52   — 

douze  ou  quinze  cents  blesses  par  la  balle  ou  par  le  sabre  etaient  transported  ,  par 
leurs  camarades,  aux  ambulances.  Les  autres  etaient  morts  foudroyes  par  la  mitraille, 
ou  rendaient  le  dernier  soupir  en  reconnaissant  leur  general.  L'enthousiasme  qui 
avait  anime  leurs  visages  dans  l'elan  de  1'assaut  respirait  encore  sur  leurs  figures. 
Leur  agonie  meme  etait  triomphale.  Us  mouraient  joyeux,  non  comme  des  soldats 
immoles  a  1'ambition  d'un  chef,  mais  comme  des  victimes  offertes  d'elles-mGmes 
et  fieres  de  leur  sacrifice  a  la  patrie. 

«  Les  chirurgiens  attache's  a  l'armee  remarquerent  que  le  delire  de  ceux  qui  mou- 
rurent  de  leurs  blessures ,  le  lendemain  ou  le  surlendemain  dc  la  bataille ,  dans 
les  hopitaux  de  Mons ,  etait  un  delire  patriotique ;  que  le  mouvement  de  fame  qui 
les  avait  emportes  au  combat  se  prolongeait  et  survivait  j usque  dans  leur  agonie, 
et  que  les  dernieres  paroles  qu'ils  prononcaient  presque  tous  etaient  quelques  refrains 
de  l'hymne  de  Rouget  de  Lisle  et  les  noms  de  patrie  et  de  liberie.  La  pensee  de 
la  Revolution  s' etait  incorporee  dans  l'armee ,  elle  s'y  appelait  patrie ;  et  si  elle  faisait 
des  martyrs  a  Paris,  elle  faisait  des  heros  a  Jemmappes.  » 

«A  la  vue  de  leur  general,  ces  soldats  intimides  se  levent,  font  sonner  les  crosses 
de  leurs  fusils  a  terre ,  lancent  leurs  chapeaux  en  fair  et  crient  :  vive  Dumouriez ! 
vive  notre  pere!  Leur  enthousiasme  se  communique  aux  bataillons  des  enfants  de 
Paris.  Le  general ,  emu  et  attendri ,  passe  ,  en  appelant  les  soldats  par  leurs  noms, 
devant  le  front  des  deux  brigades  et  jure  qu'il  leur  amene  la  victoire.  lis  promettent 
de  le  suivre.  Dix  escadrons  de  cavalerie  francaise,  dragons,  chasseurs,  hussards, 
sillonnes  de  temps  en  temps  par  les  boulets  des  redoutes,  etaient  en  bataille,  a  quelques 
pas  de  la,  dans  un  repli  du  terrain.  Dumouriez  vole  a  la  tete  de  ces  escadrons 
ebranles.  II  envoie  son  aide-de-camp  de  confiance,  Philippe  de  Vaux,  presser  la 
charge  de  Beurnonville,  en  lui  annoncant  que  le  general  en  chef  est  engage.  Les 
Autrichiens  reconnaissent  Dumouriez  au  mouvement  qui  se  fait  autour  de  lui  ,  a 
l'elan  et  aux  cris  des  Francais;  ils  lancent  d'en  haut  toute  une  division  de  dragons 
irriperiaux  pour  dissoudre  et  fouler  aux  pieds  ce  noyau.  Les  soldats  du  camp  de 
Maulde ,  immobiles  comme  des  troupes  un  jour  de  revue ,  placent  au  milieu  d'eux 
les  bataillons  de  Paris ,  attendent  a  dix  pas  la  charge  de  cette  masse  de  dragons , 
visent  au  poitrail  et  a  la  tete  des  chevaux ,  et  en  abattent  plus  de  deux  cents  qui 
viennent  rouler  et  expirer  avec  leurs  cavaliers  au  pied  des  bataillons.  Protegees  par 
ce  rempart  de  cadavres,  les  deux  brigades  fusillent  les  escadrons  a  mesure  qu'ils 
pivotent  sous  leur  feu.  Dumouriez,  a  la  tete  de  dix  escadrons  frangais,  lance  les 
hussards  de  Bercheny,  qui  sabrent  les  dragons  imperiaux  deja  decimes.  Cette  masse 
de  cavalerie  autrichienne  s'enfuit  enfin  en  desordre  sur  la  route  de  Mons  ,  et  ebranle, 
par  le  spectacle  de  sa  deroute ,  la  colonne  d'infanterie  Hongroise.  Beurnonville  arrive 
avec  ses  reserves  au  pas  de  course.  II  remplace  les  Autrichiens  sur  le  plateau  qu'ils 
viennent  d'abandonner.  Dumouriez  rassure  de  ce  cote ,  descend  de  cheval  au  milieu 
de  ses  soldats,  qui  le  recoivent  avec  acclamation  dans  leurs  bras.  11  forme  une 
colonne  de  ces  deux  brigades.     II  y  joint  le  regiment  de  chasseurs  a  cheval  commande 


—  53  — 

fifteen  hundred  men  alone,  wounded  by  the  bullet  or  the  sword,  had  been  carried  by 
their  comrades  to  the  hospitals.  The  rest  of  them  were  dead ,  battered  by  the  leaden 
storm,  or  were  heaving  of  their  last  sigh ,  as  they  recognized  their  general.  The  same 
enthusiasm,  as  had  flashed  upon  their  features  in  *«  the  rapture  of  the  fight, »  was 
still  awake,  and  breathing  in  their  lineaments.  Their  very  agony  was  triumph. 
They  died  happy,  not  like  soldiers,  hecatombed  to  the  selfish  ambition  of  a  chief, 
but  like  victims ,  offered-up  of  their  own  free-will ,  and  proud  of  the  noble  immolation 
to  their  country. 

«The  army-surgeons  observed,  that  the  delirium  of  such,  as  died  of  their  wounds 
a  day  or  two  after  the  battle  in  the  hospitals  of  Mons,  was  a  patriotic  one-,  that 
the  powerful  emotion ,  which  had  borne  them  to  the  field ,  was  superior  to  pain 
and  living  even  in  the  pangs  of  death;  and  that  the  last  words,  which  nearly  all 
of  them  pronounced,  were  cited  from  the  war-song  of  de  Lisle,  or  «  liberty  »  or 
«  native-land.  »  The  thought  of  the  Revolution  was  embodied  in  the  army,  and 
«  country »  was  the  name  of  it  :  if  alas  \  it  led  to  martyrdom  at  Paris ,  it  led ,  no 
less ,  to  glory  at  Jemmappes.  » 

«At  the  sight  of  the  general-in-chief,  the  disheartened  soldiers,  up  in  a  moment, 
rattle  the  butt-end  of  their  muskets  on  the  ground ,  toss  their  caps  into  the  air,  and 
joyfully  shout  out  :  «  Vive  Dumouriez  !  vive  notre  pere !  »  The  contagious  zeal  is 
caught  by  the  battalions,  composed,  as  we  remarked  above,  of  the  volunteers  of  Paris. 
The  general ,  affected  at  the  cry,  and  calling,  as  he  goes  along ,  his  men  familiarly  by 
name ,  passes  in  front  of  the  two  brigades ,  and  swears  to  conquer  at  their  head.  The 
soldiers,  in  their  turn,  engage  to  follow  him.  Ten  squadrons  of  French  cavalry, — 
dragoons,  lancers,  hussars, — battered  down,  from  time  to  time,  by  the  shot  of  the 
redoubts,  are  combatting,  a  few  paces  off,  in  a  species  of  ravine.  Dumouriez,  in  the 
twinkling  of  an  eye ,  is  there  to  reassure  and  steady  them ,  and  dispatches  his  con- 
fidential aide-camp,  Philippe  de  Vaux,  to  hasten  the  charge  of  Beurnonville  and  tell 
him,  that  the  general-in-chief  is  actually  engaged.  Dumouriez,  owing  to  the  stir 
immediately  about  his  person,  to  the  ardour  and  the  shouts  of  the  French,  is  recognized 
by  the  Austrians ,  who  hurry  from  the  heights  a  whole  division  of  dragoons  to  scatter 
this  important  group,  and  tread  them  under  foot.  In  the  meanwhile ,  the  soldiers 
of  the  camp  of  Maulde,  as  quiet  as  others  on  parade ,  placing  the  battalions  of  Paris  in 
the  centre,  allow  the  dragoons  to  come  charging  down  upon  them  to  within  about  ten 
paces,  and  then  take  deliberate  aim  at  the  chest  and  at  the  head  of  their  horses, 
which,  to  the  amount  of  two  hundred  or  more,  are,  in  an  instant,  rolling  over, 
and  dying  with  their  riders  at  the  foot  of  the  battalions.  Defended  by  a  wall  of 
bodies,  the  two  brigades  are  playing  on  the  squadrons,  as  soon  as  ever  they  come 
beneath  their  fire.  Dumouriez,  at  the  head  of  the  cavalry  aforesaid,  sets  upon  the 
enemy  the  hussars  of  Bercheny,  who  sabre  the  imperial  dragoons ,  decimated  already! 
The  mass  of  Austrian  horse  are  flying  in  disorder,  and  unsettle,  with  the  example 
of  their  rout,  the  column  of  Hungarian  infantry.  Beurnonville,  full  speed,  arrives 
with  his  reserve ,  and  takes  possession  of  the  platform ,  which  the  Austrians  have' 

"  Tlic  «  certaminis  gaudia  »  of  Ausonius. 


—  54  — 

par  1'un  des  freres  Frescheville ,  celui  des  hussards  Chamborand ,  commande  par 
1'autre  frere,  tons  deux  iutrepides  lanceurs  d'escadrons  dans  les  melees;  il  y  rallie 
le  regiment  des  hussards  de  Bercheny,  forme ,  dans  nos  vieilles  guerres ,  d'aventuriers 
hongrois  dont  le  nom  seul  inspirait  la  terreur  et  la  fuite  dans  toutes  les  guerres  de 
la  Revolution,  et  que  commandait  le  colonel  Hordmann.  II  entonne  l'hymne  des 
Marseillais  repete  par  tout  son  etat-major,  et  renforce  par  les  quinze  cents  voix  des 
enfants  de  Paris. 


«A  ce  chant,  qui  s'eleve  au-dessus  du  bruit  du  canon  et  qui  donne  le  delire  aux 
soldats  et  aux  chevaux  eux-memes ,  la  colonne  s'ebranle ,  se  precipite ,  la  baionnette 
en  avant ,  sur  les  redoutes.  Les  canonniers  hongrois  n'ont  que  le  temps  de  tirer  leurs 
pieces  chargees  a  mitraille  sur  les  tetes  de  colonnes.  Les  volontaires  et  les  soldats 
franchissent,  pour  cscalader  les  redoutes,  les  membres  de  leurs  camarades  mutiles;  ils 
clouent  avec  leurs  ba'ionnettes  les  corps  des  Hongrois  sur  leur  affuts.  Au  milieu  de 
1'epaisse  fumee  de  poudre  qui  enveloppe  cet  etroit  champ  de  carnage,  a  peine  peut-on 
distiuguer  les  Francais  de  l'ennemi ,  on  ne  se  reconnait  souvent  qu'apres  s'etre  frappe. 
Cette  fumee  couvrit  des  prodiges  d'heroisme  des  deux  cote's.  On  se  battait  corps  a  corps, 
dans  un  sinistre  silence  interrompu  seulement  par  le  froissement  du  fer  contre  le  fer, 
par  les  coups  sourds  des  cadavres  qui  tombaient  et  qui  roulaient  du  haut  des  parapets, 
et  par  l'immense  cri  de  victoire  qui  s'elevait  de  chaque  etage  des  redoutes  conquises , 
quand  les  Francais  les  avaient  couronnees  du  drapeau  du  bataillon.  II  n'y  eut  la 
ni  fuite  ni  prisonniers ;  tous  les  Hongrois  moururent  sur  leurs  pieces  eteintes  et  tenant 
encore  a  la  main  les  troncons  de  leurs  baionnettes  et  de  leurs  fusils. 


Livre  36.  Sections  23,  38,  39  et  42. 

SOUPER   FUNEBRE   ET   SUPPLICE  DES   GIRONDINS. 

(i  II  etait  onze  heures  du  soir.  Apres  un  moment  donne  au  contre-coup  du  juge- 
ment ,  a  l'emotion  des  condamnes ,  aux  cris  de  «  vive  la  Republique , »  pousses  par  la 
foule,  la  seance  fiit  levee. 

«  Les  Girondins ,  en  descendant  un  a  un  de  leurs  bancs ,  se  groupent  autour  du 
cadavre  de  Valaze  etendu  sur  une  estrade ,  le  touchent  respectueusement  du  doigt 
pour  s'assurer  s'il  respire  encore;  puis,  comme  saisis  d'une  inspiration  electrique 
au  contact  du  republicain  sacrifle  par  sa  propre  main ,  ils  s'ecrient  d'une  seule 
voix  :  «Nous  mourons  innocents,  vive  la  Republique !»  Quelques-uns  jettent  au 
meme  instant  des  poignees  d'assignats,  non,  comme  on  l'a  cru,  pour  faire  appel 
a  la  corruption  et  a  l'emeute ,  mais  pour  leguer  au  peuple ,  comme  les  Romains , 
une  monnaie  desormais  inutile  a  leur  propre  vie.    La  foule  se  precipite  sur  ce 


—  55  — 
just  abandoned.  Dumouriez ,  perfectly  at  ease  about  this  quarter  of  the  field  ,  alights 
from  his  horse  in  the  middle  of  his  soldiers,  who  salute  him  with  ringing  shouts, 
and  welcome  him  with  open  arms.  He  forms  a  column  of  the  two  brigades ,  adding 
thereunto  the  regiment  of  lancers ,  commanded  by  one  of  the  brothers  Frescheville  •, 
the  regiment  of  the  Chamborand  hussars,  commanded  by  the  other  brother,  (both 
of  them  intrepid  leaders  in  a  grand  charge; )  and  the  regiment  of  Bercheny,  composed, 
in  the  olden  time,  of  Hungarian  adventurers ,  whose  name  alone  was  the  signal  for 
fear  and  flight  in  all  the  wars  of  the  Revolution ,  and  whose  commander  was  Colonel 
Hordman.  Dumouriez,  the  general-in-chief,  strikes  up  the  hymn  of  the  Marseillais, 
which  is  repeated  by  his  staff  in  chorus ,  and  magnified  by  the  fifteen  hundred  voices 
of  Ihe  volunteers  of  Paris. 

«  At  the  sound  of  this  song ,  which  is  heard  above  the  roaring  of  the  cannon , 
and  which  maddens  the  soldiers, — nay,  the  very  horses  themselves, — the  column 
is  in  motion,  and  rushes  forward,  bayonet  in  hand,  to  seize  on  the  redoubts.  The 
Hungarian  gunners  hardly  have  the  time  to  discharge  their  pieces,  loaded  with  grape, 
at  the  foremost  of  the  ranks.  The  soldiers  and  the  volunteers ,  to  scale  the  redoubts  , 
clamber  on  the  corpses  of  their  mutilated  comrades ,  and  pin  with  their  bayonets  the 
Hungarians  to  their  carriages.  In  the  middle  of  the  thick  sulphureous  smoke,  enveloping 
this  narrow  field  of  carnage,  the  Frenchmen  and  the  foe  are  nearly  undistinguish- 
able,  and  the  conflict,  in  consequence,  is  frequently  at  random  and  pell-mell. 
Prodigies  of  valour,  on  either  side ,  are  achieved  behind  this  impenetrable  mist.  Hand 
to  hand ,  body  to  body,  they  battle  in  a  sullen  silence ,  which  is  only  interrupted 
by  the  clashing  of  the  steel ,  by  the  heavy  falling  of  the  corpses ,  which  come  rolling 
from  the  parapets ,  and  by  the  mighty  cries  of  victory,  as  the  French  battalion , 
stage  by  stage ,  masters  the  redoubts ,  and  plants  the  flag  of  triumph  on  the  top. 
There  is  no  flight,— no  taking-prisoner, — no  quarter:  the  Hungarians,  to  a  man, 
die  upon  the  cannon  they  have  served ,  still  holding  in  their  grasp— their  convulsive 
grasp — the  barrels  and  the  stocks  of  their  bayoneted  guns.  » 

Dook  36.  Sections  23,  38,  39  and  42. 

FUNERAL   SUPPER    AND   EXECUTION   OF   THE   GIRONDINS. 

«  It  was  eleven  o'  clock  at  night.  After  a  moment  of  reaction ,  given  to  the  verdict , 
— to  the  effect  on  the  condemned, — to  the  cries  of  «  Vive  la  Republique ! »  by  the 
crowd , — the  court  rose. 

«  The  Girondins,  descending  from  their  benches  one  by  one,  form  a  group  about 
the  body  of  Valaze,  which  is  lying  on  a  stretcher,  touch  it  softly  and  respectfully,  to  see 
if  it  is  breathing  still,  and  then,  as  if  inspired  by  the  contact  of  a  republican,  sacrificed 
by  his  proper  hand,  simultaneously  shout  out :  «We  die  innocent :  vive  la  Republique  In 
Some  of  them ,  at  the  same  time ,  scatter  to  the  right  and  left  a  quantity  of  assignats , 
not,  as  was  erroneously  deemed,  with  any  kind  of  view  to  bribery  and  riot,  but  by  way 
of  bequeathing  to  the  people  (as  the  Romans  did  of  old)  a  money  that  is  useless  to  them 
now.  The  mob,  with  eagerness,  seize  upon  the  legacy,  and  appear  to  be  alfected  by  it. 


—   56  — 

iegs  des  mouranfs  et  parait  s'attendrir.  Hermann  ordonne  aux  gendarmes  de  faire" 
leur  devoir  et  d'entrainer  les  condamnes.  lis  rentrent  sous  la  voiite  de  l'escalier 
qui  descend  aux  cachots.     Leur  presence  d'esprit ,  un  moment  deconcertee ,  revient 

tout  entiere  avec  la  certitude  de  leur  sort! 

(cCependant,  fideles  a  la  parole  qu'ils  avaient  donuee  aux  autres  detenus  de  la 
Conciergerie  de  les  informer  de  leur  sort  par  les  echos  de  leurs  voix,  ils  entonnent 
en  sortant  du  tribunal ,  l'hymne  des  Marseillais  : 

«  Allons ,  enfans  de  la  patrie ! 

H  Le  jour  de  gloire  est  arrive  ?  » 
et  le  chante  en  chceur  avec  une  energie  desesperee  qui  fait  trembler  les  march  es- 
de  l'escalier  et  les  voutes  des  guichets  et  des  corridors.  A  ces  accents,  les  detenus 
s'eveillent  et  comprennent  que  les  accuses  chantent  l'hymne  de  leur  propre  mort. 
L'horreur  et  la  pitie  leur  repondent  par  des  acclamations,  des  gemissemens  et  des 
adieux  du  fond  de  tous  les  cachots. 

«On  les  confina  tous  pour  cette  derniere  nuit  dans  le  grand  cachot,  celte  salle 
d'attente  de  la  mort.  Le  tribunal  venait  d'ordonner  que  le  corps  a  peine  refroidi 
de  Valaze  «  serait  reintegre  dans  la  prison ,  conduit  sur  la  meme  charrette  que  ses 
«  complices  au  lieu  du  supplice,  et  inhume  avec  eux.  »  Seul  arret  peut-etre  qui  aif 
supplicie  la  mort. 

« Quatre  gendarmes ,  executeurs  du  jugement  d'Hermann ,  suivant  pas  a  pas  la 
colonne  des  condamnes  sous  les  voutes  du  corridor,  portaient  sur  un  brancard  le 
cadavre  sanglant,  et  le  deposerent  dans  un  angle  du  cachot.  Les  Girondins  vinrent 
un  a  un  baiser  la  main  hero'ique  de  leur  ami.  Ils  lui  recouvrirent  le  visage  de 
son  manteau.  Si  pres  de  se  rejoindre ,  l'adieu  fut  plus  respectueux  que  triste. 
«  A  demain!  »  dirent-ils  au  cadavre;  et  ils  recueillirent  leurs  forces  pour  ce  lendemain. 
Ils  y  touchaient  :  il  etait  minuit.  Le  depute  Bailleul,  leur  collegue  de  l'Assemblee, 
leur  complice  d'opinion ,  proscrit  comme  eux ,  mais  echappe  a  la  proscription  et 
cache  daus  Paris ,  leur  avait  promis  de  leur  faire  apporter  du  dehors ,  le  jour  de 
leur  jugement,  un  dernier  repas  triomphal  ou  funebre,  selon  l'arret,  en  rejouissance 
de  leur  liberie  ou  en  commemoration  de  leur  mort.  Bailleul ,  quoique  invisible , 
avait  tenu  sa  promesse  par  l'intermediaire  d'un  ami.  Le  souper  funeraire  etait 
dresse  dans  le  grand  cachot.  Les  mets  recherches  ,  les  vins  rares ,  les  flours  cheres , 
les  flambeaux  nombreux  couvraient  la  table  de  chene  des  prisons.  Luxe  de  l'adieu 
supreme ,  prodigalite  des  mourants  qui  n'ont  rien  a  epargner  pour  le  jour  suivant. 
Les  condamnes  s'assirent  a  ce  dernier  banquet,  d'abord  pour  restaurer  en  silence 
leurs  forces  epuisees,  puis  ils  y  resterent  pour  attendre,  avec  patience  et  avec  dis- 
traction ,  le  jour.  Ce  n'etait  pas  la  peine  de  dormir.  Un  pretre,  jeune  alors,  destine 
a  leur  survivre  plus  d'un  demi-siecle,  1'abbe  Lambert,  ami  de  Brissot  et  d'autres 
Girondins,  introduit  a  la  Conciergerie  pour  consoler  les  mourants  ou  pour  les  benir, 
attendait  dans  le  corridor  la  fln  du  souper.  Les  portes  etaient  ouvertes.  II  assistait 
de  la  a  cette  scene ,  et  notait  dans  son  ame  les  gestes ,  les  soupirs  et  les  paroles 
des  convives.    C'est  de  lui  que  la  posterite  tient  la  plus  grande  partie  de  ces  details , 


—  57  — 

Hermann ,  the  gaoler,  orders  the  gendarmes  to  do  their  duty  and  take  away  Hie 
prisoners,  who  accordingly  repass  the  archway  of  the  staircase,  which  leads  to  under- 
ground. Their  presence  of  mind,  unsettled  for  a  moment,  is  thoroughly  restored  by 
the  certainty  of  death. 

Faithful,  however,  to  the  promise  they  have  made  their  brothers  in  captivity,  to 
apprize  them  of  their  doom  themselves ,  they  strike  up,  just  as  they  are  quitting  the 
Court-hall ,  the  stanza  of  la  Marseillaise  : 

«  Allons ,  enfans  de  la  patrie  ! 
«  Le  jour  de  gloire  est  arriv6 !  » 
And  sing  it ,  in  full  chorus,  with  a  desperate  determined  energy,  that  shakes  alike  the 
staircase  they  are  on,  and  the  arches  of  the  corridors  and  cells.  Awaking  at  the  sound, 
the  others  understand ,  that  the  accused  are  chanting  forth  their  own  requiem.  With 
cries  and  groans  and  loud  adieus ,  ( the  language  of  horror  and  commiseration , )  they 
answer  from  the  bottom  of  the  vaults. 

«  They  were  all  of  them,  this  closing  night,  confined  in  the  great  dungeon, — the 
waiting-room  of  death !  The  court  had  just  decreed ,  that  the  body  of  Valaze ,  warm 
as  it  still  was,  should  be  taken  back  to  the  Conciergerie ,  conveyed  to  the  place  of 
execution  in  the  same  cart  as  his  accomplices ,  and  then  be  buried  with  the  rest , — 
the  only  time ,  perhaps ,  that  justice  ever  sat  upon  the  dead ,  and  passed  a  formal 
sentence  on  a  corpse! 

«  Four  gendarmes ,  in  obedience  to  the  orders  of  Hermann  and  following  the  condem- 
ned file ,  step  by  step ,  under  the  arches  of  the  gallery,  carried  the  bleeding  body  on  a 
truck,  and  bestowed  it  in  a  corner  of  the  cell.  The  Girondins  approached  it,  one  after 
the  other,  and  kissed  the  heroic  hand  of  Valaz6.  His  face  they  covered  with  his  cloak. 
So  nigh  to  a  reunion,  as  they  were,  the  parting  was  respectful  more  than  sad.  uTill  lo- 
«  morrow !»  was  their  apostrophe  to  the  corpse;  and  they  gathered  up  their  strength  to 
meet  it  fittingly.  They  were  close  upon  it :  it  was  midnight.  The  deputy  Bailleul,  their 
colleague  in  the  Chamber,  the  partner  of  their  political  opinions ,  proscribed  like  them , 
but  escaped  from  the  proscription  and  hid  in  Paris',  had  promised  to  procure  them ,  on 
the  day  of  trial ,  a  last  repast,  triumphal  or  funereal ,  according  as  the  verdict  might 
decide, — a  banquet  to  celebrate  their  freedom,  or  commemorate  their  death.  Bailleul, 
though  invisible  himself,  had  performed  his  promise  through  the  medium  of  a  friend. 
The  funeral  supper  was  laid  out  in  the  great  cell.  The  prison-table ,  made  of  common 
oak,  was  loaded  with  the  choicest  dishes,  the  rarest  wines,  the  dearest  flowers, 
illumined  by  a  blaze  of  light, — the  splendour  of  a  farewell/ete.' — the  prodigality  of  dying 
men,  who  have  no  to-morrow  to  be  thrifty  for!  The  twenty  sat  them  down  to  it, 
firstly,  to  recruit  in  silence  their  exhausted  strength ,  secondly,  to  tarry  there  with 
patience  and  distraction,  and  abide  the  coming  of  the  day.  With  death  so  very 
near  at  hand ,  sleep  ( its  image ! )  was  unnecessary  quite.  A  priest , — a  young  man 
then, — who  was  destined  to  survive  them  half-a-century, — the  abbe"  Lambert,  the 
personal  friend  of  Brissot  and  some  others  of  the  Girondins ,  admitted  to  the  Con- 
ciergerie for  their  spiritual  comfort  or  to  give  them  his  benediction ,  was  waiting 
in  the  corridor,  till  supper  should  be  done.    The  doors  were  open.    It  was  there, 


—  58  — 
veridiques  comme  ia  conscience  et  fideles  comme  la  memoire  d'un  dernier  ami. 


«Le  repas  fut  prolonge  jusqu'au  premier  crepuscule  du  jour.  Vergniaud,  place" 
au  milieu  de  la  table ,  fa  preside  avec  la  meme  dignite  calme  qu'il  avait  gardee 
la  nuit  du  10  aout,  en  presidant  la  Convention.  Vergniaud  etait  de  tous ,  celui 
qui  avait  le  moins  a  regretter  en  quittant  la  vie,  car  il  avait  accompli  sa  gloire 
et  il  ne  laissait  ni  pere,  ni  mere,  ni  epouse ,  ni  enfans  derriere  lui.  Les  autres 
se  placerent  par  groupes,  rapproches  par  le  hasard  ou  par  l'affection.  Brissot  seul 
etait  a  un  bout  de  la  table ,  mangeant  peu  et  ne  parlant  pas. 

« Rien  n'indiqua  pendant  longtemps ,  dans  les  physionomies  et  dans  les  propos ', 
que  ce  repas  fut  le  prelude  d'un  supplice.  On  eut  dit  une  rencontre  fortuite  de 
voyageurs  dans  une  hotellerie ,  sur  la  route ,  se  hatant  de  saisir  a  table  les  delices 
fugitives  d'un  repas  que  le  depart  va  interrompre.  lis  mangerent  et  burent  avec 
app&it ,  mais  sobrement.  On  entendait  de  la  porte  le  bruit  du  service  et  le  tintement 
des  verres  entrecoupe  de  peu  de  conversations  :  silence  de  convives  qui  satisfont 
Ia  premiere  faim.  Quand  on  eut  emporte  les  mets  et  laisse  seulement  sur  la 
table  les  fruits  ,  les  flacons  et  les  fleurs ,  l'entretien  devint  tour  a  tour  anime , 
bruyant  et  grave  ,  comme  l'entretien  d'hommes  insouciants  dont  la  chaleur  du 
vin  delie  la  langue  et  les  pensees.  Mainvielle,  Autiboul,  Du  Chastel,  Fonfrede, 
Ducos ,  toute  cette  jeunesse,  qui  ne  pouvait  se  croire  assez  vieillie  en  une  heure 
pour  mourir  demain ,  s'evapora  en  paroles  legeres  et  en  saillies  joyeuses.  Ces  paroles 
contrastaient  avec  la  mort  si  voisine,  profanaient  la  saintete  de  la  derniere  heure 
et  glacaient  de  froid  le  faux  sourire  que  les  jeunes  gens  s'efforcaient  de  repandre 
autour  d'eux.  Cette  affectation  de  gaiete  devant  Dieu  et  devant  la  derniere  heure 
etait  egalement  irrespectueuse  pour  la  vie  et  pour  l'immortalite.  lis  ne  pouvaient 
ni  quitter  l'une  ni  aborder  l'autre  si  legerement.  Ces  plaisanteries  posthumes  tom- 
baient  de  leurs  levres  comme  tombent  sur  un  cercueil  ces  fleurs  que  personne  ne 
respire ,  qui  contractent  l'odeur  du  sepulcre ,  et  qui ,  lorsqu'elles  ne  sont  pas  des 
reliques,  ressemblent  a  des  derisions. 

« Brissot,  Fauchet,  Sillery,  Lasource,  Lehardy,  Carra  essayaient  quelques  fois 
de  repondre  a  ces  provocations  bruyantes  d'une  gaiete  feinte  et  d'une  fausse  indif- 
ference. Mais  cette  gaiete  deplacee  de  leurs  jeunes  collegues  effleuraient  a  peine 
les  levres  de  ces  hommes  murs.  Vergniaud ,  plus  grave  et  plus  reellement  intrepide 
dans  sa  dignite,  regardait  Ducos  et  Fonfrede  avec  un  sourire  ou  l'indulgence  se 
melait  a  la  compassion. 

«Ces  eclats  de  bruit  et  de  joie  funebres  apaises,  l'entretien  prit  vers  le  matin  un 
ton  plus  serieux  et  un  accent  plus  solennel.  Brissot  parla  en  prophete  des  malheurs 
de  la  Republique,  decapitee  de  ses  plus  vertueux  et  de  ses  plus  eloquents  citoyens. 
«Que  de  sang  ne  faudrait-il  pas  pour  laver  le  notre?»  s'ecriait-il  en  finissant.  lis 
se  turent  tous  un  moment  et  parurent  consternes  devant  le  fantdme  de  l'avenir 


—  59  — 

that  he  assisted  at  the  scene,  and  there  that  he  noted  in  his  mind  the  looks,  the  sighs, 
the  expressions  of  the  guests.  To  him  it  is,  that  posterity  is  indebted  for  the  major 
portion  of  the  following  particulars,  veracious  as  the  conscience,  and  faithful  as  the 
memory,  of  a  last  and  loving  friend. 

«The  supper  was  protracted  till  the  dawn.  Vergniaud,  seated  in  the  centre  of  the  table, 
presided  with  the  same  calm  dignity,  as ,  on  the  night  of  the  appalling  tenth  of  August , 
he  had  done  at  the  Convention.  He ,  of  all  of  them ,  had  the  least  to  regret  at  the 
laying  down  of  life ,  since  his  glory  was  achieved ,  and  he  had  none  to  leave  behind 
him , — nobody  to  weep  for  him,— father,  mother,  wife  nor  child.  The  others  were  in 
groups,  as  chance  or  partiality  had  placed  them.  Brissot  alone  was  sitting  by  himself, 
at  the  bottom  of  the  table ,  eating  little  and  talking  not  at  all. 

K  There  was  nothing ,  for  a  long  while ,  whether  in  the  manner  or  the  conversation 
of  the  guests,  to  show  that  the  repast  was  a  prelude  to  the  guillotine.  On  the  contrary, 
it  seemed  a  fortuitous  meeting  of  travellers  on  the  road-side,  who,  stopping  for  the  cheer 
provided  for  them ,  enjoy  it  while  they  may.  They  ate  and  drank  in  moderation ,  but 
with  zest.  The  usual  sounds  were  audible  at  the  door, — the  rattle  of  the  plates ,  the 
jingle  of  the  glasses,  with  here  and  there  a  solitary  word  , — the  silence,  that  prevails 
at  the  beginning  of  a  meal.  But,  as  soon  as  ever  the  dishes  were  removed,  and  the 
attendants  had  left  them  to  themselves,  with  the  fruits  and  the  flagons  and  the  flowers, 
the  tone  of  conversation  became,  now  animated,  now  noisy,  now  serious,  just,  in  brief, 
like  the  conversation  of  men ,  whose  tongues  ( to  so  express  myself)  are  untied ,  and 
whose  thoughts  are  set  at  liberty  by  wine.  Mainvielle,  Antiboul,  Du  Chastel ,  Fonfrede 
and  Ducos ,  (the  redolent  of  youth ! )  unable  to  conceive  how  a  single  night  should  age 
them  for  death  upon  the  morrow,  were  full  of  laughing  levity,  of  airy  sallies,  and  joyous 
repartees ,  the  which ,  contrasting ,  as  they  did  ,  with  the  nearness  of  their  doom , 
profaned  alike  the  nature  of  the  hour,  and  congealed  the  hollow  smile ,  which  they 
giddily  essayed  to  spread  around  them.  Such  an  affectation  of  mirth ,  in  the  very  face 
of  God  and  the  very  face  of  death,  was  an  equal  insult  to  life  and  immortality.  They 
could  neither  quit  the  one,  nor  approach  the  other,  so  gaily  as  all  that !  Those  posthu- 
mous hilarities  kept  falling  from  their  lips,  like  flowers  upon  a  bier,— flowers,  that 
nobody  can  smell  to , — flowers ,  that  contract  the  odour  of  the  sepulcre , — and  which , 
if  offered  not  as  reliques ,  are  nothing  more  than  mockeries ! 

«  Brissot ,  Fauchet ,  Sillery,  Lasource ,  Lehardy,  Carra ,  attempted  now  and  then  to 
meet  the  challenge ,  and  bandy  the  frivolity  with  lightness  and  indifference,  but  in 
vain  :  the  lightness  was  fictitious  and  the  indifference  was  false.  The  jesting  of  their 
younger  colleagues,  to  tell  the  truth,  was  too  mistaken— too  unseasonable — to  tally 
with  their  riper  years.  Vergniaud,  aloof  in  dignity,  the  gravest  and  the  bravest  of 
them  all ,  regarded  Ducos  and  Fonfrede  with  a  smile ,  where  pity  and  indulgence  met. 

«Those  noisy  shouts  and  tomb-affronting  railleries  appeased,  the  conversation  took, 
towards  the  morning ,  a  deeper  and  more  solemn  tone.  Brissot  spoke  prophetically, 
and  painted  the  disasters  of  the  Bepublic ,  decapitated  ( in  them )  of  its  best  and  most 
efficient  citizens.  «  What  streams  of  blood, »  exclaimed  he  in  conclusion,  «.must 
tijlow  to  ivash  our  own!»    His  hearers  seemed  astounded  at  the  phantom  of  the 


—  60  — 
evoque  par  Brissot.  «Mes  amis, »  reprit  VergniauiT,  «en  greffant  l'arbre  nous  l'avons 
«tue;  il  etait  trop  vieux.  Robespierre  le  coupe.  Sera-t-il  plus  heureux  que  nous? 
«  Non.  Ce  sol  est  trop  leger  pour  nourrir  les  racines  de  la  liberte  civique,  ce  peuple 
k  est  trop  enfant  pour  manier  ses  lois  sans  se  blesser ;  il  reviendra  h  ses  rois ,  comme 
«  l'enfant  revient  a  ses  hochets  !  Nous  nous  sommes  trompes  de  temps  en  naissant 
«  et  en  mourant  pour  la  liberte  du  monde  :  nous  nous  sommes  crus  a  Rome ,  et 
«  nous  etions  a  Paris.  » 


«Le  jour,  descendant  de  la  lucarne  dans  le  grand  cachot,  commen^ait  a  faire 
palir  les  bougies.  «Allons  nous  coucher, »  dit  Ducos,  «la  vie  est  chose  si  legere 
«  qu'elle  ne  vaut  pas  l'beure  de  sommeil  que  nous  perdons  a  la  regretter. — (cVeillons,» 
dit  Lasource  a  Sillery  et  a  Fauchet ,  « l'eternite  est  si  certaine  et  si  redoutable , 
«  que  mille  vies  ne  suffiraient  pas  pour  s'y  preparer. »  lis  se  leverent  de  table  a 
ces  mots ,  se  separerent  pour  rentrer  dans  leurs  chambres ,  et  se  jeterent  presque 
tous  sur  leurs  matelas. 

«  Treize  resterent  dans  le  grand  cachot.  Les  uns  se  parlaient  a  voix  basse ,  les 
autres  etouffaient  des  sanglots ,  quelques-uns  dormaient.  A  huit  heures  on  les  laissa 
se  repandre  par  groupes  dans  le  corridor. 

<i  A  dix  heures ,  les  executeurs  entrerent  pour  preparer  les  tetes  des  condamnes  au 
couteau ,  et  pour  lier  leurs  mains.  Tous  vinrent  d'eux-memes  incliner  leurs  fronts 
sous  les  ciseaux  et  tendre  leurs  bras  aux  cordes.  Gensonne ,  ramassant  une  boucle 
de  ses  cheveux  noirs,  les  tendit  a  1'abbe"  Lambert ,  en  suppliant  le  pretre  de  remettre 
ces  cheveux  a  sa  femme ,  dont  il  lui  indiqua  la  retraite  :  «  Dis-lui  que  c'est  tout  ce 
«  que  je  peux  lui  envoyer  de  mes  restes ,  mais  que  je  meurs  en  lui  adressant  toutes 
«mes  pensees. »  Vergniaud  tira  sa  montre,  ecrivit,  avec  la  pointe  d'une  epingle, 
quelques  initiales  et  la  date  du  30  octobre  dans  l'interieur  de  la  boite  d'or ;  il  glissa 
la  montre  dans  la  main  d'un  des  assistants  pour  qu'on  la  remit  a  une  jeune  fille , 
qu'il  aimait  d'un  amour  de  frere,  et  qu'il  se  proposait,  dit-on,  d'epouser  plus  tard. 
Tous  eurent  un  nom,  une  amitie,  un  amour,  un  regret,  qu'ils  laisserent  echapper 
pendant  ces  apprets ;  presque  tous ,  quelques  reliques  d'eux-memes  a  envoyer  a  ceux 
qu'ils  laissaient  sur  la  terre.  L'esperance  d'une  memoire  ici-bas  est  le  dernier  lien 
que  le  mourant  retient  en  quittant  la  vie.     Ces  legs  mysterieux  furent  acquittes. 


«  Quand  tous  les  cheveux  furent  tombes  sur  les  dalles  du  cachot ,  les  executeurs  et 
les  gendarmes  rassemblercnt  les  condamnes  et  les  firent  marcher  en  colonne  vers  la 
cour  du  Palais.  Cinq  charrettes  attendaient  leur  charge.  Une  foule  immense  les 
environnait.  Au  premier  pas  hors  de  la  Conciergerie ,  les  Girondins  entonnerent , 
d'une  seule  voix  et  comme  une  marche  funebre,  la  premiere  strophe  de  la  Marseillaise, 
eu  appuyant  avec  une  energie  significative  sur  ces  vers  a  double  sens  : 

n  Contre  nous  de  la  tyrannic 

ii  L'etendard  saDglant  est  leve.  » 


—  61  — 

future,  as  conjured  up  by  Brissot,  and  all  of  them  were  mute.  « My  friends, »  said 
Vergniaud ,  « in  grafting  of  the  tree,  we  have  killed  it.  It  was  too  old.  Robespierre  is 
«  cutting  it  down.  But  will  his  measure,  1  ask,  be  happier  than  our's?  No.  The  soil  of 
«  France  is  too  light— too  poor — to  feed  the  roots  of  civil  liberty,  her  people  too  volatile 
« for  freedom  and  its  laws.  Like  children  with  a  knife,  they  play  with  what  will  injure 
a.  them.  France,  be  well  assured,  will  turn  her  to  her  kings  again,  as  a  baby  to  its 
«  toys.  We  have  bitterly  mistaken  both,  the  time,  the  place  :  as  labourers,  at  once,  for 
«  our  country  and  mankind,  nor  now  nor  here  was  it  fitting  to  be  born,  nor  now  nor 
(i  here  is  it  suitable  to  die.  Yes !  the  delusion  ivas  complete :  iv e  believed  ourselves 
«  at  Rome ,  and  we  only  ivere  at  Paris  I » 

v.  The  daylight ,  which  entered  from  a  grating ,  was  beginning  to  bedull  the  lustr«  of 
the  lamps.  «  To-bed ! »  said  Ducos  :  « life  is  so  trivial  a  thing ,  that  the  hour  of  rest , 
«  which  we  lose  in  lamentations,  is  far  beyond  its  worth .'» — «  Wake  and  watch!  11  said 
Lasource  to  Sillery  and  Fauchet :  « eternity  is  so  certain  and  so  awful,  that  a  thousand 
a  lives  were  a  scanty  preparation  for  it ! »  They  arose  from  table  as  he  spoke ,  left  the 
room,  and  parted  at  the  door,  each  for  his  respective  chamber,  and,  with  two  or  three 
exceptions,  sank  upon  their  mattresses. 

«  As  many  as  thirteen ,  however,  remained  in  the  great  cell :  some  of  them ,  in  an 
under-voice,  were  talking  to  one  another,  some  of  them  a-stifling  of  their  sobs,  and 
some  of  them  uneasily  asleep.  At  eight  0'  clock,  they  were  permitted  to  assemble 
in  the  gallery,  where  they  gathered  into  groups. 

«  At  ten ,  the  executioners  came  in  to  prepare  their  heads  for  the  ax  and  to  bind 
their  hands ,  when ,  stepping  forward  of  their  own  accord ,  they  submitted ,  in  their 
turns,  their  hair  to  the  scissars  and  their  wrists  to  the  ropes.  Gensonne,  selecting 
one  of  his  raven  locks,  reached  it  to  the  abbe  Lambert,  imploring  him,  as  he  did  so,  to 
give  it  to  his  wife ,  whose  residence  he  mentioned  :  «  Say,  »  said  he ,  k  that  this  is  the 
«  only  relic  1  can  send  her,  but  that  my  dying  thoughts  are  all  Iter's.  »  Vergniaud  , 
having  written  with  a  pin  their  ciphers  in  the  case,  and  annexed  the  date,  (the 
30lh  of  October, )  slipped  his  gold-watch  into  the  hand  of  an  attendant ,  directing  him 
to  deliver  it  to  a  young  girl ,  whom  he  loved  with  a  brotherly  affection ,  and  whom , 
it  was  reported ,  he  meant  to  marry  on  a  future  day.  Not  one  of  them  but  had ,  during 
those  mournful  preparations,  a  name,  a  friendship,  a  passion  ,  a  regret,— a  something 
that  escaped  the  lips,  the  heart, — and  nearly  all  of  them  a  something  to  bequeath. 
A  hope  to  be  remembered  after  death,— to  live  in  recollection  upon  earth, — to  survive 
our  ashes,  as  it  were ,  in  the  love  of  our  survivors, — such,  I  say,  is  the  last  fond  link  , 

which  ties  us  to  humanity, — the  last  fond  wish ,  which  warms  us  to  the  grave ! 

Those  secret  dispositions  were  strictly  borne  in  mind  and  rigidly  fulfilled. 

«  When  the  hair  had  all  fallen  on  the  floor,  the  executioners  and  gendarmes  collected 
the  condemned  together,  and  led  them,  in  a  body,  from  the  dungeon  to  the  palace-yard. 
Five  carts,  surrounded  by  an  innumerable  throng,  were  waiting  for  the  prisoners. 
As  soon  as  they  had  left  the  Conciergerie ,  the  Girondins ,  with  one  voice ,  struck  up 
their  funeral-march , — the  opening  stanza  of  la  Marseillaise,  dwelling,  with  a  sterner 
emphasis ,  on  its  verses  of  a  double  sense  : 

«  Contre  nous  de  la  tyrannie 

«  L'ilendard  sanglant  est  leve  !  » 


—  62  — 
«De  ce  moment  ils  cesserent  de  s'occuper  d'eux-memes  pour  ne  penser  qu'a  I'exemple 
de  mort  republicaine  qu'ils  voulaient  laisser  au  peuple.  Leurs  voix  ne  retombaient  un 
moment  a  la  fin  de  chaque  strophe  que  pour  se  relever  plus  energiques  et  plus  re- 
tentissantes  au  premier  vers  de  la  strophe  suivante.  Leur  marche  et  leur  agonie  ne 
furent  qu'un  chant.  Ils  etaient  quatre  sur  chaque  charrette.  Une  seule  en  portait 
cinq.  Le  cadavre  de  Valaze  etait  couche  sur  la  derniere  banquette.  Sa  tete  decouverte, 
cahotee  par  les  secousses  du  pave ,  ballottait  sous  les  regards  et  sur  les  genoux  de  ses 
amis,  obliges  de  fermer  les  yeux  pour  ne  pas  voir  ce  livide  visage.  Ceux-la  chantaient 
cependant  comme  les  autres.  Arrives  au  pied  de  l'echafaud  ,  ils  s'embrasserent  tous 
en  signe  de  communion  dans  la  liberte ,  dans  la  vie ,  et  dans  la  mort.  Puis  ils  re- 
prirent  le  chant  funebre  pour  s'animer  mutuellement  au  supplice ,  et  pour  envoyer , 
jusqu'au  moment  supreme ,  a  celui  qu'on  executait ,  la  voix  de  ses  compagnons  de 
mort.  Tous  moururent  sans  faiblesse ,  Sillery  avec  ironie  ;  arrive  sur  la  plate-forme , 
il  en  fit  le  tour  en  saluant  a  droite  et  a  gauche  le  peuple ,  comme  pour  le  remercier 
de  la  gloire  et  de  l'echafaud.  Le  chant  baissait  d'une  voix  a  chaque  coup  de  hache. 
Les  rangs  s'eclaircissaient  au  pied  de  la  guillotine.  Une  seule  voix  continua  la  Mar- 
seillaise :  c' etait  celle  de  Vergniaud ,  supplicie  le  dernier.  Ces  notes  supremes  furent 
ses  dernieres  paroles.  Comme  ses  compagnons ,  il  ne  mourait  pas  :  il  s'evanouissait 
dans  l'enthousiasme ,  et  sa  vie ,  commencee  par  des  discours  immortels ,  finissait  par 
un  hymne  &  1'eternite  de  la  Revolution.  » 

Livre  47.  Sections  19,  20,  22,  23  et  24. 


—  63  — 

«  From  that  moment,  (oblivious  of  themselves,)  their  only  thought  was  the  example, 
which,  as  dying  republicans,  they  were  anxious  to  set  their  countrymen  at  large. 
If,  at  the  end  of  one  stanza,  their  voices  for  an  instant  failed ,  it  was  but  to  resound  , 
with  added  energy,  at  the  beginning  of  the  next.  Their  march — their  mortal  close— was 
nothing  but  a  song.  They  were  four  in  each  cart,  excepting  In  the  fifth,  which  contained 
five.  The.  corpse  of  Valaze  was  put  into  the  last.  His  uncovered  head ,  owing  to  the 
roughness  of  the  stones ,  was  jolted  up-and-down ,  and  bandied  to-and-fro ,  on  the 
knees  of  his  living  friends ,  who ,  to  avoid  the  horrid  spectacle ,  were  obliged  to  shut 
their  eyes.  Yet  even  they  kept  singing  like  the  rest !  Arrived  at  the  scaffold-foot ,  in 
token  of  their  fellowship, — their  community  in  liberty  and  life  and  death, — they 
mutually  embraced.  They  then ,  to  inspirit  one  another  to  their  doom ,  and  to  solace 
whichsoever  of  them  was  being  executed ,  combined  their  voices  and  resumed  their 
requiem.  They  perished  bravely,  the  entire  band;  Sillery,  indeed,  with  irony,  since  , 
mounting  on  the  floor,  he  made  the  tour  of  it ,  bowing  to  the  right  and  left ,  as  if 
to  thank  the  people  for  their  grace, — for  glory  and  the  guillotine!....  They  sensibly 
diminished.  At  every  falling  of  the  ax,  the  song  was  weakened  by  a  voice.  A  single 
one,  at  last,  continued  la  Marseillaise, — the  voice  of  Vergniaud,  the  last  to  die. 
The  closing  of  his  chant  was  the  closing  of  his  life  as  well.  To  die ,  did  I  say  ?  no !  no ! 
Vergniaud ,  like  his  brother-Girondins ,  was  never  meant  to  die  I  He  evaporated , — he 
melted  away, — he  evanished  in  enthusiasm,  and  his  life, — his  real  life , — commencing 
with  his  deathless  eloquence ,  finished  with  a  hymn  to  our  deathless  Revolution. » 

Book  47.  Sections  19,  20,  22,  23  and  24. 


APPENDIX. 


—  66  — 

LES    ASSASSINS   DE   SEPTEMBRE. 

«  Pendant  que  ces  proscriptions  consternaient  Paris ,  1'Assemblee  envoyait  en  vain  des  commissaires 
pour  haranguer  le  peuple  aux  portes  des  prisons.  Les  egorgeurs  ne  suspendaient  meme  pas  leur  tra- 
vail pour  preter  l'oreille  a  ces  discours  officiels.  Les  mots  de  justice  et  dTiumanite  ne  resonnent  pas 
dans  le  coeur  de  brutes  ivres  d'eau-de-vie  et  de  sang.  En  vain  le  ministre  de  I'interieur,  Roland  , 
gemissant  de  son  impuissance,  s'ecriait-il  a  Santerre  de  deployer  la  force  pour  proteger  la  surete  des 
prisons ;  Santerre  ne  parut  que  le  troisieme  jour  pour  demander  au  conseil  general  de  la  commune 
l'autorisation  de  reprimer  les  scelerats  devenus  dangereux  a  ceux-la  memes  qui  les  avaient  laches  sur 
leurs  ennemis.  Les  tueurs  venaient  insolemment  sommer  la  rounicipalite  de  leur  payer  Ieurs  meurlres. 
Tallien  et  ses  collegues  n'oserent  leur  refuser  le  prix  de  ces  journees  de  travail ,  et  porterent  sur  les 
registres  de  la  commune  de  Paris  ces  salaires  a  peine  deguises  sous  des  litres  et  sous  des  pretextes 
transparents.  Santerre  et  ses  detachemens ,  arrives  apres  coup,  eurent  peine  a  refouler,  dans  leurs 
repaires,  ces  hordes  allechees  de  carnage.  Ces  honimes,  nourris  de  crimes  pendant  sept  jours,  gorges 
de  vin  dans  lequel  on  melait  de  la  poudre  a  canon ,  enivres  par  la  vapeur  du  sang ,  s'etaient  exaltes 
jusqu'a  un  etat  de  demence  physique,  qui  les  rendait  incapables  de  repos.  La  fievre  de  l'extermination 
les  avait  saisis.  lis  n'etaient  plus  bons  qu'a  tuer.  Des  que  l'emploi  leur  manqua,  beaucoup  d'entre  eux 
tournerent  leur  fureur  contre  eux-memes.  Quelques-uns ,  rentres  chez  eux ,  se  repandirent  en  impre- 
cations contre  l'ingratitude  de  la  commune ,  qui  ne  leur  avait  fait  allouer  que  quarante  sous  par  jour. 
Ce  n'etait  pas  un  sou  par  victime  pour  ces  assassinats  au  rabais.  *  D'auties,  tourmentes  de  remords,  ne 

*  L'histoire  se  repete  quelquefois.  En  voici  un  exemple  :  «  Charles  IX  ,  depuis  le  massacre  de  la 
Saint-Barthelemy,  n'eut  pas  un  seul  instant  de  repos.  De  ce  moment  on  vit  sa  sante  s'alterer  sensi- 
blement  cliaque  jour,  ainsi  que  son  caraetere  et  son  humeur ;  il  devint  sombre ,  farouche ;  son  imagi- 
nation troublee  lui  representait  sans  cesse  des  fantomes,  des  spectres  menacans;  ses  jours  s'ecoulaient 
dans  l'amertume,  et  ses  nuits  dans  la  terreur.  «  Le  surlendemain  du  massacre ,  (d'apres  les  Jlemoires 
«  de  Sully,)  le  roipril  a  part  Ambroise  Pare,  et  s'ouvrit  a  lui  sur  le  trouble  affrcux ,  donl  il  se 
«  scntait  agile.  Ambroise ,  lui  dit-il,  je  ne  sais  ce  qui  m'esl  survenu  depuis  deux  ou  trois  jours; 
«  mais  je  me  trouve  I'espril  el  le  corps  tout  aussi  emus  que  si  j'avais  la  fievre;  il  me  semble  a  lout 
il  moment,  aussi  bien  veillant  que  dormant,  que  ces  corps  massacres  se  presentenl  a  moi  avec  des 
i  faces  hideuses  et  couvertes  de  sang.  Je  voudrais  bien  qu'on  n'y  eul  pas  compris  les  innocens !».... 
«  II  eut  une  maladie  cruelle  et  bizarre ,  a  laquelle  les  medacins  ne  purent  donner  de  nom.  11  souffrait 
les  douleurs  les  plus  aigues,  (dit  le  due  de  Sully,)  et  son  sang  sortait  par  lous  les  pores  de  sa  peau. 
Peu  d'heures  avant  sa  mort ,  il  demanda  le  roi  de  Navarre ;  il  lui  temoigna ,  par  ses  transports  et  par 
ses  larmes ,  son  rcpentir  de  tout  ce  qui  s'etait  fait  contre  les  Huguenots ,  et  il  1'embrassa  affectueuse- 

ment /(  expira  baigne  dans  son  sang,  au  chateau  de  Vincennes ,  le  30  mai  ioli,  jour  de  la 

Pentecote ,  a  l'age  de  vingt-quatre  ans ,  apres  en  avoir  regne  treize  et  demi.  Ou  ouvrit  son  corps ; 
on  n'y  trouva  ni  abces  ni  gangrene;  mais  il  elait  rempli  de  meurlrissures ,  donl  les  chirurgient  ne 
purent  penelrcr  la  cause.  » 

Lisons ,  en  plus ,  le  passage  suivant ,  tire  de  la  meme  Histoire  de  Henri  le  Grand.  Les  choses  qui 
s'y  trouvent  peuvent  tres-bien  servir  de  pendant  aux  journees  de  septembre  1792.  (Madame  de  Genlis 
parle  encore  du  massacre  de  la  Saint-Barthelemy,  qui  eut  lieu  les  24 ,  2b  et  26  aodt  1572. ) 

«.  Cependant  rien  n'arretait  le  cours  des  assassinats  :  le  carnage  dura  trois  jours.  Pendant  trois  jours 
entiers ,  dans  cette  enceinte  desolee ,  le  sommeil  fut  suspendu  par  la  fureur  homicide  ou  par  la  terreur ! 
On  ne  prononca  que  des  paroles  de  rage  ou  de  desespoir :  le  del ,  outrage  dans  tous  les  instans  de  ces 
horribles  jours ,  ne  fut  invoque  que  par  des  victimes  expirantes ;  le  crime  infatigable  et  forcene  veilla 
sans  relache  et  regna  seul  dans  cette  ville  immense.  Durant  ces  deux  derniers  jours ,  Paris  ofTVit  le 
spectacle  affreux  d'une  ville  prise  d'assaut  et  livree  au  pillage.  Una  populace  et  une  soldatesque  eifrenees , 
armees  de  pistolets ,  de  pieux ,  de  piques  et  de  poignards ,  couraient  les  rues ,  ou  sortaient  pe'e-mele 


—  67  — 

THE   ASSASSINS   OF    SEPTEMBER. 

n  While  Paris  was  terrified  at  these  proscriptions,  the  Assembly,  to  no  purpose,  was  dispatching 
messengers  to  the  mob ,  to  harangue  them  at  the  prison-doors.  Deaf  to  the  official  mandates ,  the 
savages  kept  killing  on.  The  words  of  justice  and  humanity  alas !  are  lost  upon  a  heart,  which  is  bru- 
tified  by  brandy  and  by  blood !  In  vain  did  Roland  ,  the  Minister  of  the  interior,  keep  writing  off  to 
Santurre ,  to  use  coercive  measures  in  favour  of  the  prisons.  It  was  not  till  the  third  day,  that  the 
latter  showed  himself  at  the  council  general  of  the  commune ,  and  formally  demanded  their  authority 
(for  the  very  instigators  were  in  danger  of  their  lives)  to  stop  the  immolation  and  put  the  wretches 
down !  And  then  the  butchers ,  with  insolent  assurance ,  summoned  the  corporation  for  the  wages  of 
their  butchery!  Tallien  and  his  colleagues,  afraid  of  saying  no,  paid  them  for  their  journey-work ,  but 
entered  on  the  parish-books ,  under  false  and  lying  heads ,  those  items  of  abominable  charge , — a 

clumsy  cheat! Santerre  and  his  detachments,  who  arrived  afterwards,  had  all  the  trouble  in  the 

world  with  this  sanguinary  horde ,  to  drive  them  to  their  dens  again.  Fed  with  murder  for  a  week , 
gorged  with  powder-heated  wine ,  and  drunk  with  seething  blood ,  they  had  reached  to  such  a  pitch 
of  physical  insanity,  that  rest  was  quite  impossible.  The  fever  of  extermination  had  got  hold  of 
them.  Kill — kill — kill — they  were  fit  for  nothing  else !  As  soon  as  they  were  «  out  of  work ,  »  many 
of  them  turned  upon  one  another.  Some  of  them ,  come  home ,  cursed  and  swore  at  the  ingratitude 
of  the  commune,  which  had  only  paid  them  forty  sous  a-day.  *A  pretty  price  for  assassinations  like 
«  theirs, — not  a  half-penny  a-head! »  *  Some,  again,  tormented  with  remorse,  could  see  before 

"  History,  at  times ,  is  a  repetition  of  itself.  Behold  an  instance  of  it :  «  Charles  IX,  from  the  massacre 
of  Saint-Bartholomew,  never  enjoyed  a  moment  of  repose.  From  that  terrific  hour,  his  health ,  from  day 
to  day,  was  visibly  impaired, — his  health,  his  temper,  and  his  character.  He  was  gloomy  and  ferocious; 
his  troubled  fancy  incessantly  called  up  the  spectres  of  the  dead;  his  days  were  full  of  bitterness,  his 
nights  of  fear.    «  The  second  day  after  the  massacre,  »  (according  to  the  Memoirs  of  Sully,)  «  his  Ma- 

•t  jesty  took  Ambroise  Pare  apart,  and  revealed  to  him  the  dreadful  agitation  he  was  in u  Ambroise, 

(said  he)  «  /  know  not  tohal  is  come  to  me  of  late ,  but  my  mind  and  body  arc  as  thoroughly  affected, 
«  as  if  I  had  the  fever.  With  closed  or  open  eyes , — asleep  or  up, — it  is  all  the  same :  murdered 
«  corpses,  with  death-distorted  lineaments  and  running  blood,— I  look  on  nothing  else!    Ah!  would 

«  the  innocent,  at  least,  could  only  have  escaped!  » He  was  attacked  with  a  cruel  and  a  singular 

disease,  which  the  faculty  could  class  under  no  specific  head.  «  He  suffered  »  (said  the  Duke  of  Sully,) 
«  the  most  excruciating  pain ,  and  the  blood  kept  oozing  from  his  skin.  A  feiv  hours  before  his 
«  death ,  he  asked  for  the  king  of  Navarre ,  and  testified  by  his  transports  and  his  tears,  as  he  embraced 

«  him  with  affection,  his  repentance  for  the  persecution  of  the  Euguenots He  expired  at  the 

«  Chateau  of  Vincennes,  deluged  in  his  blood  ,  on  the  50th  of  May,  4S74 ,  (the  day  of  Pentecost)  at 
«  the  age  of  twenty-four  years ,  after  a  reign  of  thirteen  and  a  half.  Eis  body  was  opened ;  it 
«  contained  neither  abscess  nor  ulcer,  but  an  infinity  of  bruises ,  the  cause  of  which  the  surgeons 
«  were  quite  unable  to  expound.  » 

Let  us  read  another  passage,  taken  from  the  same  Eistory  of  Henry  the  Great.  The  events,  therein 
related,  may  surely  form  a  counterpart  of  the  days  of  September,  1792.  (Madame  de  Genlis  is  still 
speaking  of  the  massacre  of  St  Bartholomew,  which  occurred  on  the  24th,  25lh  and  26th  of  August,  1372.) 

«  Nothing ,  however,  could  arrest  the  course  of  the  assassinations  :  the  slaughter  lasted  three  days» 
Yes ,  for  three  successive  days ,  was  slumber  banished  by  murder  and  affright.  The  only  language , 
that  was  heard ,  was  the  language  of  fury  and  despair.  Heaven ,  outraged ,  as  it  was ,  at  every  mo- 
ment of  those  appalling  days ,  was  invoked  but  by  the  victims  of  the  massacre.  Mad  and  indefatigable 
crime  waked  and  watched  and  reigned  alone  in  the  capital  of  France.  During  the  two  last  indeed , 
Paris  offered  to  the  view  the  semblance  of  a  seige , — assault  and  pillage.  A  lawless  soldiery  and 
a  lawless  mob ,  armed  with  pistols  and  with  stakes ,  with  poignards  and  with  pikes ,  were  a-scouring 


—  68  — 

rirent  plus  devant  leurs  yeux  que  les  visages  livides ,  les  membres  saignants ,  les  entrailles  fumantes 
de  ceux  qu'ils  avaient  egorges.  lis  tomberent  dans  des  acces  de  folie  ou  dans  une  langueur  sinistre 
qui  les  conduisit  en  peu  de  jours  au  tombeau.  D'autres  enfin ,  signales  a  l'effroi  de  leurs  voisins  et 
odieux  a  leurs  proclies,  s'eloignereni  de  leur  quartier,  s'engagerent  dans  des  bataillons  de  volontaires, 
ou ,  insatiables  de  crimes ,  s'enrolerent  dans  les  bandes  d'assassins  ,  qui  allerent  continuer  a  Orleans , 
k  Lyon ,  a  Meaux ,  a  Reims ,  a  Versailles ,  les  proscriptions  de  Paris.  De  ce  nombre  furent  Chariot , 
Grizon ,  le  tisserand  Rodi ,  Hanriot ,  le  gar<;on  boucher  Allaigre ,  et  un  negre ,  nomme  Delorme ,  amene 
a  Pai'is  par  Fournier  l'am^ricain.  Ce  noir,  infatigable  au  meurtre,  egorgea  a  lui  seul  plus  de  deux  cents 
prisonniers ,  pendant  les  trois  nuits  du  massacre ,  sans  prendre  d'autre  relaehe  que  les  courtes  orgies 
ou  il  allait  retremper  ses  forces  dans  le  vin.  Sa  chemise  rabattue  sur  sa  ceinture  laissait  voir  son 
tronc  nu;  ses  traits  hideux,  sa  peau  noire  rougie  de  taches  de  sang,  les  eclats  de  rire  sauvage  qui 
ouvraient  sa  bouche  et  montraient  ses  dents  a  chaque  coup  qu'il  assenait ,  faisaient  de  cet  homme  le 
symbole  du  meurtre  et  le  vengeur  de  sa  race.  C'etait  un  sang  qui  en  epuisait  un  autre ,  le  crime 
exterminates  punissant  l'Europeen  de  ses  attentats  sur  l'Afrique.  Ce  noir,  qu'on  retrouve  une  tete 
couple  a  la  main  dans  toutes  les  convulsions  populaires  de  la  Revolution  ,  fut  deux  ans  plus  tard  ar- 
rete  aux  journees  de  prairial,  portant,  au  bout  d'une  pique,  la  tele  du  depute  Feraud ,  et  perit  enlin 
du  suppbce  qu'il  avait  tant  de  fois  prodigue.  Aussilot  que  les  complices  de  septembre ,  refugies  aux 
armees  dans  les  bataillons  de  volontaires ,  y  furent  signales  a  leurs  camarades,  les  bataillons  les 
vomirent  avec  degout.  Les  soldats  ne  pouvaient  pas  vivre  a  cote  des  assassins.  Le  drapeau  du 
patriotisme  devait  etre  pur  du  sang  des  citoyens.  L'heroisme  et  le  crime  ne  voulaient  pas  etre 
confondus. 

(Hisloire  des  Girondins.  Livre  25.  Section  21. ) 
THEROIGNE   DE    MERICOURT. 

«  Apres  Saint-Huruge ,  marchait  Theroigne  de  M^ricourt.  Theroigne  ou  Lambertine  de  Mericourt  , 
qui  commandait  le  troisieme  corps  de  l'ami6e  des  faubourgs ,  etait  connue  du  peuple  sous  le  nom  de 
la.  Belle  Liegeoise.  La  Revolution  framjaise  l'avait  attiree  a  Paris ,  comtne  le  tourbillon  attire  les 
choses  mobiles.  L'amour  outrage  l'avait  jetee  dans  le  desordre ;  le  vice ,  dont  elle  rougissait ,  lui 
donnait  la  soif  de  la  vengeance.  En  frappant  les  aristocrates ,  elle  croyait  rehabiliter  son  honneur : 
elle  lavait  sa  honte  dans  du  sang. 

«  N<5e  au  village  de  Mericourt,  dans  les  environs  de  Liege,  d'une  famille  de  riches  cultivaleurs,  elle 
avait  recu  l'education  des  classes  elevees.  A  dix-sept  ans,  sou  eclatante  beaute  avait  attire  l'attention 
d'un  jeune  seigneur  des  bords  du  Rhin,  dont  le  chateau  etait  voisin  de  la  demeure  de  la  jeune  Ulle. 

des  maisons  devaslees ,  n'y  laissant  que  des  cadavres ,  e*  emportant  sans  obstacle  des  vivres ,  des 
menbles ,  des  bijoux.  On  n'entendait  que  le  bruit  des  coups  de  pislolets ,  d'arquebuses ,  celui  des 
pierres  et  des  cailloux  lances  contre  les  vitres  et  les  maisons ,  et  les  cris ,  les  gemissemens  des  victimes , 
ou  les  blasphemes ,  les  imprecations  et  les  hurlemens  des  meurtriers.  Les  rues  etaient  jonchees  de 
membres  epars  et  sanglans ;  les  porles  des  maisons ,  des  palais  et  des  lieux  publics ,  teintes  de  sang  ; 
l'image  de  la  mort  et  de  la  destruction  se  trouvait  partout ,  et  sous  les  formes  les  plus  liideuses ;  on 
voyait  des  corps  mutiles  precipites  du  liaut  des  toits  ou  par  les  fenetres,  traines  ensuite  dans  laboue 
et  dans  les  ruisseaux  ensanglantes ;  on  rencontrait  a  chaque  pas  des  charrettes  chargees  de  butin  ou 
du  monceaux  de  cadavres  qu'on  allait jeter  dans  la  Seine  ,  dont  les  eaux  furent ,  pendant  pluseurs  jours , 

souillees  de  sang  lmmain ,  du  sang  des  Fran^ais! On  epuisa  tous  les  genres  de  cniaute ;  la  fai- 

blesse  mfime  de  l'enl'ance  ne  preserva  pas  de  la  ferocite  :  on  vit  des  cnfans  de  dix  ans ,  dans  le  premier 
essai  de  l'homicidc ,  commettre  Facte  de  la  plus  monstrncuse  barbarie ,  en  iigorgeant  des  or/fans  au 
maillot!  » 


—  69  — 

their  eyes  but  livid  faces,  bleeding  limbs,  smoking  entrails, — the  victims  they  had  killed!  And  these 
were  either  driven  mad,  or  fell  into  a  state  of  languor,  which ,  in  a  few  days,  bore  them  to  the  tomb. 
Others,  again,  scouted  by  their  neighbours  and  hateful  to  their  relatives,  changed  their  quarters,  en- 
listed in  the  volunteers ,  or,  insatiable  of  crime  ,  enrolled  themselves  in  the  band  of  bravos ,  who ,  in 
various  divisions,  started  off  for  Orleans ,  Lyons,  Meaux,  Reims,  Versailles,  etc.,  to  continue  the 
proscriptions  of  Paris ,  and  murder  where  they  went !  Of  -'.his  number  were  Chariot ,  Grizon  ,  Rodi  the 
weaver,  Hanriot ,  the  butcher-boy  Allaigre ,  and  a  negro  ,  named  Delorme  ,  brought  to  Paris  by  Feurnier, 
the  American.  This  horrid,  indefatigable  black,  with  his  own  hand,  slew  more  than  two  hundred 
prisoners  during  the  three  nights  of  massacre,  with  no  relaxation  but  a  brief  debauch — that  brain- 
bemadding  wine — to  renovate  his  strength !  His  shirt ,  which  was  lowered  to  the  waist ,  exposed  his 
powerful  and  shiny  trunk ;  his  hideous  features, — his  black  skin,  bespotted  with  the  blood , — the  peals 
of  hellish  laughter,  which  opened  his  unsightly  mouth  and  showed  his  teeth  at  every  blow  that  told , 
— made  of  this  fearful  man  the  type  of  murder,  and  the  fell  avenger  of  his  race.  It  was  one  blood 
draining  another, — exterminating  crime ,  which  was  punishing  the  European  for  his  wrongs  to  groaning 
Africa !  This  same  Delorme ,  who ,  charged  with  dripping  heads ,  figured  away  in  all  the  popular  con- 
vulsions of  the  Revolution ,  was  arrested ,  two  years  afterwards ,  as  he  was  carrying  the  head  of  the 
deputy  Feraud  on  a  pike,  in  the  days  of  prairial,  and  died  the  very  death,  which  scores  had  suffered 
at  his  hand !  The  accomplices  of  September,  that  had  taken  refuge  in  the  different  armies  of  volunteers , 
were  no  sooner  pointed  out  to  their  comrades ,  than  the  latter  rejected  them  with  loathing ,  and  spewed 
them  from  the  ranks.  The  soldiers  could  not — would  not — bear  assassins  at  their  side.  The  Hag  of 
patriotism,  they  felt,  ought  to  be  unstained  with  civic  blood.  Heroism  shrank  from  the  pollution,  and 
refused  to  associate  with  crime.  » 

(History  of  the  Girorulins.  Cook  25.  Section  21.) 

THEROIGNE   DE   MERICOURT. 

*  Next  to  Saint-Huruge ,  marched  Theroigne  de  Mericourt.  Theroigne  or  Lambertine  de  Mericourt, 
who  commanded  the  third  corps  of  the  army  of  the  faubourgs ,  was  known  among  the  people  as  «  La 
«  Belle  Liegeoise.  »  The  French  Revolution  had  attracted  her  to  Paris  ,  as  the  whirlwind  gathers  chaff. 
Outraged  love  had  plunged  her  into  vice ,  and  vice ,  a-blushing  at  itself,  inspired  her  with  revenge.  In 
smiting  the  aristocrats ,  she  thought  to  reintegrate  her  honour ;  so ,  dyeing  her  disgrace ,  she  soaked  it 
in  their  blood. 

n  Born  at  Mericourt,  a  village  near  Liege,  of  a  family  of  wealthy  farmers,  she  had  received  the 
education  of  the  upper  classes.  She  was  only  seventeen  when  her  striking  beauty  allured  the  attention 
of  a  young  nobleman  ,  whose  chateau ,  on  the  borders  ol  the  Rhine ,  adjoined  her  humbler  residence. 

of  the  streets  or  issuing  pell-mell  from  the  houses  they  had  sacked ,  leaving  nothing  in  them  but 
the  dying  and  the  dead,  and  making  off  with  furniture,  with  provisions,  and  with  jewels.  The 
musket  and  the  pistol  shots,  the  rattle  of  the  stones,  the  crashing  of  the  windows,  the  shrieking  and 
the  groaning  of  the  victims,  the  oaths  and  imprecations  and  yelling  of  tbe  butchers, — such  were  the 
sounds  that  answered  to  the  sights !  The  streets  were  strewed  with  random  and  ensanguined  limbs  ; 
the  thresh-holds  of  the  houses  ,  o  ithe  palaces  ,  and  public  buildings  were  incarnadine  with  gore  ;  the 
images  of  death  and  devastation, — and  that,  too,  in  the  most  revolting  shape, — were  multiplied  around  ; 
mangled  bodies,  hurled  headlong  from  the  windows  and  the  roofs,  or  crimsoning  the  mire  and  kennels 
they  were  dragged  in ,  were  visible  at  every  step ,  and  ,  at  every  step ,  were  waggon-loads  of  plunder 
or  of  corpses ,  intended  for  the  Seine ,  the  waves  of  which  ,  for  a  total  week  ,  were  reddened  with  the 
blood ,— the  human  blood  of  France !  Every  kind  of  cruelty  was  exhausted ;  even  infancy  itself  was  no 
preservative  from  the  knife  :  children  of  ten  years  old,  as  the  coup  d'essai  in  assassination,  committed 

the  most  savage  of  barbarities  in  killing  the  baby  at  the  breast!  » 

S.  P. 


—  70  — 

Aimee ,  seduite ,  abandonnee ,  elle  s'etait  echappee  de  la  raaison  paternelle  et  s'etait  refugiee  eu 
Angleterre.  Apres  quelques  mois  de  sejour  a  Londres ,  elle  passa  en  France.  Recommandee  a  Mirabeau, 
elle  connut  par  lui  Sieyes,  Joseph  Chenier,  Danton,  Ronsin,  Brissot,  Camille  Desmoulins.  La  jeunesse, 
l'amour,  la  vengeance,  le  contact  avec  ce  foyer  d'une  revolution  avait  echauQe  sa  tete.  Elle  vecut  dans 
l'ivresse  des  passions ,  des  idees  et  des  plaisirs.  D'abord  attachee  aux  grands  novateurs  de  89 ,  elle 
devint  la  prostituee  volontaire  du  peuple.  Comme  la  grande  courtisane  de  l'Egypte ,  elle  prodigua  a  la 
liberte  Tor  qu'elle  enlevait  au  vice. 

«  Des  les  premiers  soulevemens ,  elle  descendit  dans  la  rue.  Elle  consacra  sa  beaute  a  servir 
d'enseigne  a  la  multitude.  Vetue  en  amazone  d'une  etoffe  couleur  de  sang,  un  panache  flottant  sur  son 
chapeau,  le  sabre  au  cdte,  deux  pistolets  a  la  ceinture,  elle  vola  aux  insurrections.  Au  premier  rang, 
elle  avait  force  les  grilles  des  Invalides  pour  en  enlever  les  canons.  La  premiere  a  l'assaut ,  elle  etait 
mont6e  sur  les  tours  de  la  Bastille.  Les  vainqueurs  lui  avaient  decerne  un  sabre  d'honneur  sur  la 
breche.  Aux  journees  d'octobre ,  elle  avait  guide  a  Versailles  les  femmes  de  Paris.  A  cheval  a  c&te 
du  feroce  Joui'dan,  qu'on  appelait  V Homme  a  longue  barbe,  elle  avait  ramene  le  Roi  a  Paris;  elle 
avait  suivi ,  sans  palir,  les  tfttes  coupees  des  gardes-du-corps  servant  de  trophees  au  bout  des  piques. 
Sa  parole ,  quoique  empreinte  d'un  accent  etranger,  avait  l'eloquence  du  tumulte.  Elle  elevait  la  voix 
dans  les  orages  des  clubs  et  gourmandait  la  salle  du  haut  des  galeries.  Quelquefois  elle  haranguait 
aux  Cordeliers.  Camille  Desmoulins  parle  de  l'enthousiasme  qu'une  de  ses  improvisations  excita. 
n  Ses  images ,  »  dit-il ,  «  etaient  empruntees  de  Pindare  et  de  la  Bible  :  e'etait  le  patriolisme  d'une 
<(  Judith.  j>  Elle  proposait  de  batir  le  palais  de  la  representation  nationale  sur  l'emplacement  de  la 
Bastille.  «  Pour  fonder  et  pour  embellir  cet  edifice,  dfpouillous-nous,  »  dit-elle  un  jour,  «  de  nos 
«  bracelets,  de  notre  or,  de  nos  pierreries.  J'en  donne  l'exemple  la  premiere,  »  et  elle  se  depouilla 
sur  la  tribune.  Son  ascendant  etait  tel  sur  les  emeutes ,  qu'un  geste  d'elle  condamnait  ou  absolvait  les 
victimes.    Les  royalistes  tremblaient  de  la  rencoutrer. 

«  En  ce  temps,  par  un  de  ces  hasards,  qui  ressemblent  aux  vengeances  premeditees  de  la  destinee, 
elle  reconnut,  dans  Paris,  le  jeuue  gcntilhomme  beige  qui  l'avait  seduite  et  abandonnee.  Son  regard 
apprit  a  son  seducteur  les  dangers  qu'il  courait.  II  voulut  les  conjurer;  il  vint  implorer  son  pardon. 
«  Mon  pardon !  »  lui  dit-elle ,  «  et  de  quel  prix  pourriez-vous  le  payer  ?  Mon  innocence  ravie ,  mon 
«  honneur  perdu ,  celui  de  ma  famille  terni ,  mon  frere  et  mes  soeurs  poursuivis  dans  leur  pays  par  le 
«  sarcasme  de  leurs  proches ,  la  malediction  de  mon  pere ,  mon  exil  de  ma  patrie ,  mon  enrolement 
ii  dans  l'infame  caste  des  courtisanes ,  le  sang  dont  je  souille  et  dont  je  souillerai  mes  mains ,  ma 
■I  memoire  execree  parmi  les  hommes,  cette  immortalite  de  malediction  s'attachant  a  mon  noma  la 
<i  place  de  cette  immortalite  de  la  vertu,  dont  vous  m'avez  appris  de  douter!  Voila  ce  que  vous  voulez 
i<  racbeter.  Voyons ,  connaissez-vous  sur  terre  un  prix  capable  de  me  payer  tout  cela  ?  »  Le  coupable 
se  tut.  Tberoigne  n'eut  pas  la  generosite  de  lui  pardonner.  11  perit  aux  massacres  de  septembre.  A 
mesure  que  la  Revolution  devint  plus  sanguinaire ,  elle  s'y  plongea  davantage. 


«  Elle  ne  pouvait  plus  vivre  que  de  la  fievre  des  emotions  publiques.  Cependant  son  premier  culte 
pour  Brissot  se  rdveilla  a  la  chute  des  Girondins.  Elle  aussi ,  elle  voulait  arreter  la  Revolution.  Mais 
il  y  avait  des  femmes  encore  au-dessous  d'elle.  Ces  femmes,  qu'on  appelait  les  furies  de  la  guillotine, 
depouillferent  de  ses  vetemens  la  belle  Liegeoise  et  la  fouetterent  en  public  sur  la  terrasse  des  Tuileries 
le  31  mai.  Ce  supplice,  plus  infame  que  la  mort,  egara  sa  raison.  Ramassee  dans  la  boue,  jetee  dans 
une  loge  d'alienes  au  fond  d'un  hospice ,  elle  y  vecut  vingt  ans.  Ces  vingt  ans  ne  furent  qu'un  long 
acces  de  fureur.  Impudique  et  sanguinaire  dans  ses  songes,  elle  ne  voulut  jamais  revetir  de  vetemens, 
fin  souvenir  de  l'outrage  qu'elle  avait  subi.    Elle  se  trainait  nue  ,  ses  cheveux  Wanes  et  epars ,  sur  les 


—  71  — 

Loved ,  seduced ,  and  left ,  she  fled  from  the  paternal  roof  and  hid  herself  in  England.  After  a  few 
months'  stay  in  London,  she  repaired  to  Paris.  With  an  introduction  to  Mirabeau,  she  incidentally 
became  known  to  Sieves,  Joseph  Chenier,  Danton,  Ronsin,  Brissot,  Camille  Desmoulins,  etc.  Youth, 
love ,  vengeance ,  and  the  contact  with  that  revolutionary  focus  had  heated  her  imagination ,  inebriate 
with  passion,  with  pleasure,  and  with  phantasy.  Attached,  in  the  tirst  instance,  to  the  great  innovators 
of  89,  she  sank  into  a  voluntary  prostitute  of  the  people.  Like  the  royal  courtesan  of  Egypt,  she 
squandered  upon  freedom  what  she  levied  upon  vice. 

«  From  the  outset  of  disturbance ,  her  arena  was  the  street ,  where  her  beauty,  abased  afresh ,  was 
the  ensign  of  the  mob.  In  an  amazon  of  crimson  cloth,  a  plume  of  feathers  in  her  hat,  a  sabre  at  her 
side,  and  a  pair  of  pistols  in  her  belt,  she  flew  from  insurrection  to  insurrection.  Foremost,  she  had  forced 
the  railing  of  the  Invalides,  to  carry  off  the  cannon,  and  foremost,  she  had  mounted  the  towers  of  the 
Bastille.  A  sword  of  honour  was  decreed  her  on  the  breach.  In  the  days  of  October,  she  had  led  the 
women  of  Paris  to  Versailles.  On  horseback,  at  the  side  of  the  ferocious  Jourdan,  (denominated  Long- 
beard,)  she  had  reconveyed  the  monarch  to  the  capital,  and  followed,  without  quailing,  the  bleeding 
heads  of  the  murdered  body-guard ,  which  were  carried  as  trophies  upon  pikes.  Her  language ,  though 
stamped  with  a  foreign  accent,  was  the  very  eloquence  of  tumult.  In  the  stormy  meeting  of  the  clubs, 
her  voice  was  paramount,  as,  crying  from  the  gallery,  she  inveighed  against  the  orators.  At  times,  she 
spoke  at  the  Cordeliers.  Camille  Desmoulins  talks  of  the  effect  produced  by  one  of  her  powerful  im- 
promptus. «  Her  images, »  says  he,  a  were  borrowed  from  Pindar  and  the  Bible  :  it  was  the  pa- 
«  triolism  of  a  Judith !  »  She  moved ,  that  the  Palace  of  the  National  Assembly  should  be  built  upon 
the  site  of  the  Bastille.  «  To  found  and  ornament  this  edip.ee ,  »  she  said  ,  «  let  us  strip  us  of  our 
«  fineries, — of  our  diamonds  and  our  pearls, — of  our  bracelets  and  our  gold.  And  I  it  is,  that  set 
«  you  the  example.  »  She  tore  away  her  jewels .  and  laid  them  on  the  tribune  ,  as  she  spoke.  Her 
ascendance  in  the  riots  was  so  great,  that  her  simple  gest  acquitted  or  condemned.  The  royalists  were 
terrified  to  meet  her. 

«  At  this  period ,  by  one  of  those  chances ,  which  look  like  retributions ,  planned  by  fate ,  she  re- 
cognized in  Paris  the  identical  young  Belgian ,  who  had  loved ,  seduced ,  and  then  deserted  her.  Her 
mien  apprized  him  of  his  danger.  Eager  to  avert  it  and  deprecate  her  wrath  ,  he  came  to  sue  her  pardon. 
•  My  pardon! »  she  replied ,  «  and  how,  then,  do  you  hope  to  purchase  it?  My  innocence  despoiled, 
« — my  honour  lost, — my  family  debased, — my  brothers  hooted  at,— my  sisters  pointed  at, — their 
<t  name  a  shame, — the  outcasts  of  their  relatives,  the  scandal  of  their  birth-place,  the  scoff  of  the 
o  vicinity, — my  mother's  broken  heart, — my  father's  bitter  malison ,— my  flight , — my  exile, — my 
«  country  forfeited  and  seen  no  more, — my  utter  degradation, — my  infamy,— my  enrolment  in  the 
«  prostitutes, — the  blood  upon  my  hands, — the  blood  upon  my  thoughts, — my  memory  an  execration 
«  and  a  hate,— this  everlasting  curse  upon  my  name  instead  of  that  imperishable  virtue,  which  you 
«  it  was  that  tutored  me  to  doubt: — behold  Ihe  mass  of  evil  you  have  worked, — the  mischief  you 
«  have  done  me , — the  cruel  crushing  wrong  you  sue  my  pardon  for,  and  what  my  pardon  never 
«  could  repair!  My  character  is  gone!  Has  Earth  itself,  I  ask,  wherewith  to  buy  it  back?  a  ransom 

«  to  redeem  me?  a  means  to  reinstate  me,  and  place  me  where  I  was?. Speak,  ruiner! 

«  answer  me,  I  say !  » But  the  ruiner  was  dumb...    She  could  not  pardon  him  :  he  perished  in 

September.  In  measure  as  the  Revolution  became  more  and  more  sanguinary,  her  vengeance 
revelled  in  it  more  and  more. 

«  Her  life  (a  fever!)  was  fed  by  the  tumult  of  the  streets.  Nevertheless,  her  early  veneration  for 
Brissot  was  reawakened  at  his  death.  Like  the  fallen  Girondins,  she,  too,  was  anxious  to  arrest  the 
Revolution ,  but  there  were  women  worse  than  even  Theroigne  de  Mericourt !  These  wretches,  who 
were  rightly  called  «  the  furies  of  the  guillotine,  »  stripped  La  Belle  Liegeoise  completely  naked,  and 
flogged  her  on  the  terrace  of  the  Tuilleries.  A  punishment  like  this ,  more  ignominious  than  death  , 
overturned  her  reason.  Lifted  from  the  mud  ,  and  thrown  into  a  lunatic  asylum ,  she  survived  for 
twenty  years — for  twenty  years  of  virulent  insanity !  Obscene  in  her  discourse  and  savage  in  her  dreams, 
she  would  never  clothe  herself  again  ,  in  remembrance  of  the  outrage  she  had  borne.     Nude ,  with 


—  72   — 

dalles  de  sa  Ioge ;  elle  entrelaeait  ses  mains  decharnees  aux  barreaux  de  sa  fenetre.   Elle  faisait  de  la 
des  motioQS  a  uo  peuple  imaginaire  et  liemandait  le  sang  de  *  Suleau.  » 

(Hisloire  des  Girondins.  Livre  16.  Section  H.) 

LA   CARMAGNOLE. 

«  Vers  la  fin  de  1792,  une  chanson,  dont  le  refrain  6tait  :  Dansons  la  Carmagnole,  vive  le  son  du 
canon!  eut  une  vogue  populaire.  On  ignore  si  la  musique  et  la  danse  de  la  Carmagnole  sont  origi- 
nates de  ce  pays ,  ou  si  l'air  a  ete  compose  par  un  francais  a  l'epoque  oil  ces  troupes  entrerent  dans 
le  Piemont,  ce  qui  est  plus  vraisemblable.  » 

«  Ce  fut  en  septembre  1792  que  toutes  les  villes  de  la  Savoie  et  du  Piemont  vinrent  se  mettre  sous 
la  protection  de  la  nation  franchise  et  que  leurs  habitans  arborerent  la  cocarde  nationale. 

«  Au  mois  de  novembre  de  la  meme  annee ,  Dorvigny  fit  jouer  au  theatre  Montansier  une  piece  en 
trois  actes ,  intitulee  La  Carmagnole  a  Chambery.  Cet  air  militaire  et  entralaant  fut  joue  par  la 
musique  des  regimens  comme  pas  redoubles ;  mais  sa  popularity  date  du  moment  ou  une  mauvaise 
chanson ,  dont  l'auteur  est  inconnu ,  retentit  dans  les  rues  et  les  carrefours  de  Paris ,  et  fut  meme  en- 
voyee  dans  les  departemens.  Elle  commencait  par  un  couplet  dirige  contre  la  reine  Marie-Antoinette , 
alors  prisonnifere  au  Temple  avec  Louis  XVI.  II  est  bon  de  conserver  des  echantillons  de  la  poesie 
brutale  avec  laquelle  on  excitait  alors  le  peuple  qui  dansait  la  Carmagnole  dans  ses  orgies ,  et  qui  la 
chantait  autour  de  la  guillotine. 

Madame  Veto  avait  promis 
De  faire  6gorger  tout  Paris; 
Mais  son  coup  a  manque , 
Grace  a  nos  canonniers! 
Dansons  la  Carmagnole , 
Vive  le  son  du  canon! 


•  «  Ce  M.  Suleau  est  celui  qui  perit  au  10  aoflt. 

«c  Faisant  partie  de  la  compagnie  des  grenadiers  du  bataillon  des  Filles-Saint-Thomas,  il  etait  un  des 
defenseurs  du  chateau  des  Tuileries ,  a  cette  journee  nefaste. 

n  Apres  Taction ,  pour  s'en  retourner  a  son  domicile ,  il  traversait  la  place  du  Carrousel ,  en  uniforme. 
La  fameuse  Theroigne  de  Mericourt ,  bien  connue  par  la  part  qu'elle  prit  aux  mouvemens  populaires , 
se  trouvait  alors  sur  la  place ,  et  s'eeria  :  «  c'est  Suleau,  ce  forcene  aristocrate ,  tue,  tue.  » 

«  Ces  paroles ,  qu'elle  portait  dans  tous  les  coins  de  la  place ,  voltigeant  sur  son  cheval ,  vetue  d« 
son  costume  adoptif  d'amazone ,  furent  promptement  saisies. 

«  Des  forcenfe  se  precipitent  vers  l'infortun6  Suleau ,  1'atteignent  au  moment  ou  il  ebranlait  la 
sonnette  de  sa  porte  et  le  poignardent  sur  son  seuil. 

«  Son  domestique ,  un  negre ,  ouvre ,  se  jette  sur  le  corps  de  son  maitre ,  veut  le  relever,  mais  lui- 
meme  est  aussi  poignardfi  :  effroyabie  catastrophe,  horrible  consequence  de  ces  temps  aflreux  de  ddlire 
et  de  demagogic  efiren^e ! 

«  J'etais  alors  a  Paris.  II  y  avait  a  peine  deux  a  trois  jours  que  M.  Suleau  et  moi  avions  dine'  a  la 
meme  table. 

«  Cette  fin  imprevue ,  si  horrible ,  si  tragique ,  m'arracha  un  cri  d'indignation. 

«  Suleau ,  homme  distingue ,  avait  Fame  candide ,  aimante.  En  somme  les  bonnes  qualites ,  les 
sentimens  genereux ,  attenuaient  les  ecarts  d'une  imagination  parfois  trop  facile  a  enflammer. 

«  II  etait  une  des  lumieres  de  soa  ordre. » 

Souvenirs  de  Mel  de  Iavigne,  Charles-Rolland , 
AiKicn  Sous-Prefet  et  Ofiicter  de  la  IdQion-d'Honneur, 


—  73  — 

while  disheTelled  liair,  she  crawled  upon  Ihe  flooring  of  her  cell,  or  wound  her  skinny  arms  aboul  Ihc 
grating  of  it ,  and  waived  to  an  imaginary  mob ,  and  shouted  for  the  blood  of  *  Suleau.  » 

(History  of  the  Girondins.  Rook  16.  Section  It.) 

LA    CARMAGNOLE. 

«  Towards  the  close  of  1792,  a  sor>g ,  having  for  its  burthen,  «  Damons  la  Carmagnole ,  rive  le 
«  son  du  canon!  »  was  in  high  favour  wi'h  the  populace.  It  is  not  ascertained  whether  the  music  and 
the  dance  are  indebted  to  that  locality  for  their  origin  ,  or  whether  the  air  was  composed  by  a  Frenchman 
at  the  time  of  our  entry  into  Piedmont ,  which ,  indeed ,  is  the  likelier  supposition  of  the  two.  » 

<i  It  was  in  the  month  of  September,  1792,  that  all  the  towns  of  Piedmont  and  Savoy  put  themselves 
under  the  protection  of  France ,  and  that  their  inhabitants  mounted  the  national  cockade. 

«  In  the  November  of  that  year,  Dorvigny  caused  a  piece  ,  in  three  acts ,  to  be  performed  at  the  theatre 
Monlansier,  intitled  «  La  Carmagnole  a,  Chambcry.  »  This  inspiriting  air  was  played  by  the  military 
bands  as  a  quick  march,  but  its  real  popularity  dates  from  the  hour,  when  a  paltry  song,  whereof  the 
author  is  unknown,  was  bawled  about  the  streets  and  the  cross-ways  of  Paris,  and  was  even  circulated 
in  the  provinces.  It  commenced  with  a  stanza ,  aimed  at  Marie-Antoinette ,  then  a  prisoner  in  the 
Temple  with  Louis  XVI.  It  is  well  to  preserve  a  specimen  or  two  of  those  brutalities  in  rhyme,  which, 
at  that  appalling  period ,  goaded  on  the  mob ,  who  danced  la  Carmagnole  in  their  atrocious  orgies , 
and  sang  it  by  the  guillotine  ! 

Madame  Veto  made  a  vow 

Paris  with  our  blood  should  flow, 

But  the  hit  a  miss  appears, 

Thanks  to  our  good  cannoneers! 

Dance  we  ,  then  ,  the  Carmagnole , 

While  the  cannon-echoes  roll  ! 

While  the  cannon-echoes  roll , 

Let  us  dance  the  Carmagnole ! 

*  «  This  Mr  Suleau  is  the  same  ,  that  perished  on  the  10th  of  August. 

"Belonging  to  the  grenadiers  of  the  battalion  des  Filles-Saint-Thomas ,  he  had  helped,  on  that 
disastrous  day,  to  defend  the  chateau  of  the  Tuilleries. 

«  The  conflict  at  an  end,  he  was  crossing,  on  his  way  home,  la  place  du  Carrousel  in  his  uniform, 
when  he  was  recognized  by  the  famous  Theroigne  de  Mericourt ,  so  notorious  for  the  part  she  took  in 
all  the  popular  insurrections ,  who  cried  out  :  *  There  goes  Suleau !  down  with  the  aristocrat !  down 
•  with  him !  down !  down !  » 

«  The  above  words ,  borne  from  one  side  of  the  square  to  the  other,  as ,  clad  in  her  usual  amazon , 
she  galloped  here  and  there ,  were  quickly  taken  up  and  as  quickly  acted  on. 

"  Some  fanatics  rush  upon  the  unfortunate  Suleau ,  reach  him  just  as  he  is  ringing  at  his  door,  and 
stab  him  on  the  sill ! 

"  His  servant  (a  negro)  opens  it,  throws  himself  on  the  hody  of  his  master,  tries  to  lift  him  up,  and 
is  poignarded  in  turn , — fearful  catastrophe  !  horrible  effect  of  that  terrific  reign  of  liberty  gone  mad  ! 

« I  was  in  PJris  at  the  time.  It  was  only  three  days  previous ,  that  Mr  Suleau  and  I  had  dined  at  the 
same  table ! 
«  This  unexpected  death ,  so  harrowing  and  tragic ,  wrung  a  cry  of  indignation  from  me. 
«  Suleau ,  a  distinguished  character,  was  a  man  of  open  nature  and  affectionate  disposition.  His  good 
qualities  and  generous  sentiments,  in  short,  redeemed  the  errors  of  a  fancy,  which,  at  times,  was 
subject  to  extravagance. 
«  He  was  one  of  the  gifted  minds — one  of  the  lights — of  the  aristocracy. 

Souvenirs  de  Mel  de  Lavigne  ,  Charles-Rolland , 
Ancien  Sous-Prefct  el  Ofpcier  de  la  Legion-d'Bonneur. 


—  74  — 

Monsieur  Veto  avait  promis 

D'etre  fidele  a  sa  patrie 

Va  ,  Louis ,  gros  paour, 
Du  Temple  dans  la  tour ; 
Dansons  la  Carmagnole , 
Vive  le  son  du  canon ! 


«  On  sait  que  le  nom  de  veto  etait  celui  par  lequel  les  Jacobins  designaient  le  Roi  depuis  que  ce 
monarque  avait  recu  le  droit  de  veto  suspensif  dans  les  actes  constitutionnels,  rediges  par  l'Assemblee 
nationale  le  ler  octobre  1789.  L'air  de  la  Carmagnole ,  qui  avait  conduit  cet  infortune  Prince  au 
supplice,  servit  plus  tard  a  chansonner  un  de  ses  bourreaux.  » 

•i  On  sera  sans  doute  curieux  de  connaitre  une  chanson  imprimee  et  chantee  en  avril  1 795,  et  inti- 
tulee  La  Carmagnole  de  Fouquier-Tainville. 

Fouquier-Tainville  avait  promis 
De  guillotiner  tout  Paris ; 
Mais  il  en  a  menti, 
Car  il  est  raccourci! 
Vive  la  guillotine 
Pour  ces  bourreaux! 
Vive  la  guillotine 
Pour  ces  bourreaux ! 
Vils  fleaux! 

Sans  acte  d'acousation , 
Avec  precipitation , 
n  fit  couler  le  sang 
De  plus  d'un  innocent. 
Vive  la  guillotine 
Pour  ces  bourreaux! 
Vive  la  guillotine 
Pour  ces  bourreaux! 
Vils  fleaux! 
k  Le  meme  peuple ,  qui  avait  chante  la  premiere  chanson ,  chantait  encore  celle-ci ,  et  peut-etre  le 
meme  auteur  les  avait  faites  toutes  les  deux  !  » 

«  Le  nom  de  carmagnole  etait  aussi  celui  d'un  vetement  que  portaient  les  gens  du  peuple  et  qu'a- 
vaient  adopte  les  Jacobins.  C'etait  une  veste  a  petites  basques  et  a  grands  revers  qui  laissait  le  cou 
decouvert  et  qui  accompagnait  le  large  pan  talon.  Le  bonnet  rouge  ou  celui  de  poil  de  renard  avec  une 
longue  queue  completait  le  costume ,  qui  fut  porte  par  la  majorite  des  citoyens ,  les  uns  par  enthousiasme, 
les  autres  par  crainte ,  et  dont  se  vetirent  meme  des  deputes  au  sein  de  la  Convention.  On  le  quitta 
bientfit  apres  la  reaction  du  9  thermidor. 

«  L'air  de  la  Carmagnole  fut  employe  dans  les  vaudevilles  et  joue  dans  les  theatres  avec  le  fameux 
Ca  ira. 
«  Buonaparte ,  etant  devenu  Consul ,  les  (it  defendre ;  on  se  borna  a  jouer,  avant  l'ouverture ,  l'air  : 

«  Teillons  au  salut  de  I'empire, » 
qui  disparut  lui-meme  a  1'epoque  du  gouvernement  imperial.  » 

( Encyclopedic  du  19m8  siecle  et  alia. ) 


—  75   — 

Monsieur  Veto  made  a  tow, 

That  he  Iov'd  his  Country  so! 

But  the  Temple  tower  hath  got 

Safe  the  doughty  patriot! 

Dance  we,  then,  the  Carmagnole, 

While  the  cannon-echoes  roll ! 

While  the  cannon-echoes  roll , 

Let  us  dance  the  Carmagnole! 
■<  Veto  is  known  to  be  the  name ,  by  which  the  Jacobins  designated  the  king ,  ever  since  he  was  vested 
with  the  power  of  suspending,  by  his  veto,  the  acts  of  the  National  Assembly,  as  drawn  up  on  the  1st 
of  October,  1789.  The  air  of  la  Carmagnole,  which  had  conducted  that  unhappy  Prince  to  the  scaffold , 
was  destined  to  lampoon ,  on  a  future  day,  one  of  his  executioners.  » 

«  Curiosity,  no  doubt ,  would  like  to  become  acquainted  with  a  song ,  which  was  printed  and  was  sung 
in  April ,  179b ,  and  intitled  «  La  Carmagnole  de  Fouquier-Tainville.  » 

Fouquier-Tainville  made  a  vow 

We  should  to  the  scaffold  go, 

But  we  live  the  lie  to  scoff, 

Since  the  villain's  head  is  off. 
«   Vive  la  guillotine !  »  we  cry : 

There  let  all  the  butchers  die ! 

There  let  all  the  butchers  die : 
«   Vive  la  guillotine!  »  we  cry. 


Many  and  many  and  many  a  time , 

E'en  without  a  charge  of  crime , 

E'en  without  a  shade  of  guilt, 

Oh !  the  blood  the  savage  spilt ! 
«   Tive  la  guillotine  !  »  we  cry : 

There  let  all  the  butchers  die  ! 

There  let  all  the  butchers  die  : 
•i  Vive  la  guillotine!  »  we  cry! 

(i  The  same  canaille,  that  had  sung  the  former  song,  sang  the  latter  too,  and  the  same  author,  perhaps, 
had  composed  them  both !  u 

«  Carmagnole  was  also  the  name  of  a  dress,  worn  by  the  lower  orders,  and  adopted  by  the  Jacobins. 
It  consisted  of  a  jacket  with  little  skirts  and  a  wide  lie-down  collar,  which  left  the  neck  exposed ,  and 
of  a  pair  of  loose  pantaloons.  The  red  cap  or  one  of  fox's  skin  with  a  long  tail  completed  the  costume , 
which  was  worn  by  the  majority  of  the  citizens,  some  from  enthusiasm,  some  from  fashion,  and  some 
from  fear,  and ,  in  the  heart  of  the  Convention  ,  was  sported  even  by  some  of  the  deputies.  After  the 
reaction  of  the  9lh  of  thermidor,  the  dress  was  cast  aside. 

«  The  air  of  la  Carmagnole  was  employed  in  the  vaudevilles  and  theatres  in  conjunction  with  the 
famous  «  Ca  ira ! »  Buonaparte ,  on  becoming  consul ,  put  them  down  :  all ,  that  was  played  before  the 
overture ,  was  the  air  of  <i  Vcillons  au  salut  de  I  'empire ,  »  which  disappeared  in  turn ,  as  soon  as  he 
was  elected  Emperor.  » 


(Encyclopedic  du  19me  siecle  and  alia. ) 


—  76  — 

NOTICE   M1LITAIRE   DE    «  LA   MARSEILLAISE.  )) 

«  Pour  mieux  faire  sentir  quelle  influence  ont  eue  sur  nos  premiers  triomphes  les  hymnes  guerriers, 
et  surtout  celui  appele  la  Marseillaise,  nous  aurions  pu  citer  ici  les  chants  de  Tyrtee  et  ceux  d'Ossian, 
les  *  bardits  des  anciens  Scaldes,  les  chansons  de  Roland  el  les  romances  du  Cid,  toute  cette  litterature 
guerriere  et  poetique  qui,  par  son  elevation  et  les  recompenses  qu'elle  promet,  rappelle  du  moins  aux 
braves ,  qui  font  pour  leur  pays  le  sacrifice  de  leur  vie ,  qu'il  y  a  pour  eux  l'immortalite  dans  la  m6- 
moire  des  hommes  et  la  gloire  decernPe  par  l'avenir  reconnaissant;  mais  il  nous  a  semble  qu'il  conve- 
nait  mieux  de  traiter  la  question  froidement  et  militairement.  Nous  avons  pensii  que,  pour  faire 
comprendre  quels  services  1'auteur  de  la  Marseillaise ,  Rouget  de  Lisle ,  brave  et  digne  officier,  a 
rendus  a  la  patrie,  il  suffirait  de  citer  le  jugement  qu'en  porte  un  auteur,  estime  con^me  ecrivain  mili- 
taire,  et  qu'on  n'accusera  sans  doute  jamais  d'enthousiasme  et  de  poesie, 

«  11  ne  sera  pas  hors  de  propos  de  rappeler,  »  dit  Jomini,  «  que,  vers  cette  epoque  (la  fin  de  1792), 
n  parurent  Vhymne  celebre  des  Marscillais  et  le  Clianl  du  Depart.  Les  generations  a  venir  s'eton- 
«  ueront  de  voir  des  chansons  iigurer  au  nombre  des  causes  de  succes  militaires;  mais  il  n'en  demeure 
■i  pas  moins  avere  que  cos  couplets,  pleins  d'cnergie  et  de  palriotisme,  accompagnes  de  la  musique  la 
n  plus  martiale,  animerent  une  jeunesse  ardente,  contribuerent  a  faciliter  les  levees,  enflammerent  le 
ii  courage  des  soldats  et  leur  firent  soutenir  les  privations  avec  aulant  de  gaite  qu'ils  affronlaient  les 
«  dangeis.  Nous  sommes  loin  d'applaudir  aux  expressions  outrees  de  ces  hymnes  contre  des  despotes 
•i  qui  n'elaient  la  plupart  que  de  bons  princes ;  nous  les  considerons  uniquement  ici  comme  moyens 
ii  d'enthousiasme,  et,  sous  ce  rapport,  elles  meritent  d'autant  plus  de  rester  comme  un  monument 
«  d'hisloire  nationale,  que  la  premiere  etait  l'ouvrage  d'un  officier  d'artillerie  nomme  Rouget  de  Lisle. 
i'  Napoleon  les  comptait  encore,  en  1806,  comme  de  puissants  mobiles  propres  a  exciter  l'energie  des 
«  troupes,  car  des  ordres  furent  donnes  de  les  jouer  aux  parades  de  Berlin.  » 

(France  Mililaire. ) 

Nota.  La  date  est  mal  donnee  par  Jomini,  vu  que  la  Marseillaise  etait  composee  au  plus  tard  dans 
le  mois  d'avril  1792,  tandis  que  le  Chant  du  Depart  n'apparut  qu'en  1793. 

S.  P. 

NOTICE   DES    «  I'EINES   1NFAMANTES.  » 

En  plus  de  la  torture  et  de  la  roue ,  qui ,  a  cause  de  leur  souffi  ance  terrible ,  n'avaient  lieu  que  ra- 
rement ,  quelques-uns  des  modes  de  punitiqn ,  maintenant  rejetes  en  France ,  etaient  la  pendaison 
par  les  bras  et  par  le  cou ,  la  mutilation  avant  la  mort  pour  les  cas  de  parricide ,  le  fouet  et  la  marque 
avec  des  fers  rouges,  etc. ,  etc.  Ce  grand  pays  (disons-le  a  son  eternel  honneur)  a  donne  l'exemple  de 
1'liumanite  dans  son  Code  penal.    Partout  oil  il  est  possible  de  le  faire ,  on  evite  scrupuleusement  de 

*  ii  Chants  de  guerre  des  anciens  Allemands.  »     ( Diclionnaire  de  VAcademie.) 
Tacite  confirme  en  son  livre ,  «  De  Moribus  Germanorum.  » 

ii  Ilvri  in  praslia  canunl.  Sunt  el  illis  hwc  quoque  carmina,  quorum  relatu,  quern  baritum  vocant, 
«  accendunt  animos,  futarmque  pugnce  fortunam  ipso  canlu  augurantur.  » 

ii  Festus  :  Bardus  gallice  Cantor  appellatur ,  qui  virorum  forlium  laudes  canit.  Ammien  Marcellin, 
liv.  XV,  parlant  des  Gaules :  Per  huec  luca,  hominibus  paulalim  excullis,vigucre  studia  laudabilium 
doctrinarum  inchoala  per  Ilardos  el  Eulruges  cl  Druidas.  Et  Bardi  quidem  fortia  virorum  illuslrium 
facia  heroicis  composita  versibus  cum  dulcibus  lurm  modulis  caniitarunt.     Lucain  : 
Vos  quoque  qui  fortes  animas  belloque  peremplas 
Laudibus  in  longum  vales  demiltilis  wvum, 
Plurima  seeuri  fudislis  carmina  Bardi.  » 

(Diclionnaire  Etymologique  de  la  langue  francaise. ) 


—  77  — 

MILITARY  NOTICE   OF    (C  L.V   MARSEILLAISE.  » 

«  For  the  better  illustration  of  the  influence ,  which  our  war-songs ,  and  more  especially  La  Mar- 
seillaise, had  upon  our  earlier  triumphs,  we  could  have  cited,  in  this  place,  the  hymns  of  Tyrtaeus  and 
of  Ossian ,  the  "  bardis  of  the  ancient  Scaldes ,  the  rhymes  of  Roland  and  the  ballads  of  the  Cid ,— all 
that  martial  and  poetic  literature,  in  short,  which ,  by  its  lofty  tone  and  the  guerdon  which  it  promises  , 
reminds,  at  least,  those  heroic  spirits,  who  perish  for  their  country,  that  the  memory  of  man  shall  be 
their  immortality,  and  the  gratitude  of  posterity  their  fame , — this ,  we  repeat ,  we  could  have  done , 
but  we  have  deemed  it  more  advisable  to  treat  the  question  in  a  cold  and  military  way.  In  showing 
the  essential  services ,  rendered  to  his  native  land  by  Rouget  de  Lisle ,  a  good  and  gallant  officer,  and 
author  of  La  Marseillaise ,  we  have  reckoned  it  sufficient  to  quote  the  judgment  of  a  writer,  of  ac- 
knowledged weight  in  military  matters ,  and  who  will  never  be  accused  of  poetical  enthusiasm. 

•i  Now  we  are  on  the  subject ,  «  says  Jomini ,  »  let  us  recollect ,  that ,  about  this  time ,  appeared  the 

celebrated  hymns  of  La  Marseillaise  and  Le  Clianl  du  Depart.    Future  generations  will  read  with 

wonder,  that  songs,  like  these,  should  have  had  to  do  with  the  triumphs  of  the  field;  nevertheless,  it 

is  an  historic  fact ,  that  the  stanzas  in  question — full  of  energy  and  patriotism  as  they  are ,  accompanied  , 

too,  by  music  of  the  most  martial  character, — assisted  to  recruit  the  armies  of  France,  inflamed  the  courage 

of  her  soldiers,  and  led  them  to  affront,  with  equal  gaiety,  the  privations  of  the  camp  and  the  perils  of 

the  light.     Far  from  approving  of  the  diatribes,  contained  in  these  hymns,  against  «  despots,  »  who, 

for  the  most  part ,  were  worthy  sovereigns ,  we  will  simply  look  upon  them  as  media  of  enthusiasm , 

and,  in  that  light,  they  are  all  the  more  worthy  of  standing  as  monuments  of  national  history,  since  the 

former  was  composed  by  an  officer  of  French  artillery,  whose  name  was  Rouget  do  Lisle.     Napoleon , 

even  in  1806,  accounted  them  as  powerful  stimuli  to  the  troops,  seeing  that  he  bade  them  to  be  played 

in  the  barracks  of  Berlin.  » 

f  France  Militaire. ) 

Nota.  Jomini  is  incorrect  in  his  dates ,  La  Marseillaise  having  been  composed ,  at  the  very  latest , 
in  the  month  of  April,  1792,  while  Le  Chant  du  Depart  only  appeared  in  1793. 

S.  I>. 

NOTICE   OF   THE    xi  PEINES   INFAMANTES.  » 

In  addition  to  the  torture  and  the  wheel ,  which ,  from  their  excruciating  character,  were  naturally 
of  rare  occurrence,  some  of  the  exploded  forms  of  punishment  in  France  were,  hanging  by  the  arms  and 
neck,  mutilation  before  death  in  cases  of  parricide,  flogging  and  branding  with  red-hot  irons,  etc.  etc. 
That  great  country  ( to  its  eternal  honour  be  it  said ! )  has ,  in  its  penal  code  ,  set  us  the  example  of 
humanity.     Wherever  possible ,  blood-shed ,  even  by  the  guillotine ,  is  scrupulously  avoided ,  and 

*  «The  war-songs  of  the  ancient  Germans.  »  ( Diclionnaire  de  I' Academic,  j 
Confirmed  by  Tacitus  in  his  «  De  Moribus  Germanorum.  » 

«  Hurt  in  praelia  canunt.  Sunt  el  illis  licec  quoque  carmina,  quorum  retain,  quern  baritum  vacant, 
«  accendunt  animos ,  fulurwquc  pugmB  forlunam  ipso  cantu  auguranlur.  » 

«  Feslus  :  Bardus  gallicc  Cantor  appellator,  qui  rirorum  forlium  laudes  canit.  Ammien  Marcellin, 
liv.  XV,  parlant  des  Gaules  :  Per  hac  loca,  hominibus  paulatim  excultis,  viguere  sludia  laudabilium 
floctrinarum  inchoala  per  Bardos  el  Iiutrages  el  Druidas.    El  Bardi  quidem  fortia  virorum  iliuslrium 
lacla  heroicis  composila  versibus  cum  dulcibus  hjra;  modulis  canlitarunl.    Lncain : 
Vos  quoque  qui  fortes  animas  beltoque  pcremplas 
Laudibtu  in  longum  vales  dcmillilis  aivum, 
Plurima  securi  fudislis  carmina  Bardi. 

( Diclionnaire  Etymologique  de  la  languc  francaise. ) 


—  78  — 

repandre  le  sang ,  meme  par  la  guillotine ,  et  Ton  cherche  et  Ton  trouve  «  des  circonstances  attenuantes  » 
avec  une  ingenuite  vraiment  anti-homicide.  Qui  croirait  jamais  que  ce  meme  peuple  eut  fait  *  la  Ioi 
de  1852  et  eftt  vu  l'insurrection  de  1848  Til  Telles  sout,  helas!  les  inconsequences  deplorables  de  la 
nature  buuiaine ! 

S.  P. 


*  «  La  loi  de  1832  a  justement  aboli  la  peine  de  mort  dans  le  cas  [ou  la  vie  des  personnes  ne  peut 
pas  etre  compromise. 

«  La  meme  loi  a  supprime  la  mutilation ,  qui  precedait ,  dans  le  Code  penal  de  1810 ,  la  mort  du 
parricide,  a  La  justice,  qui  elablil  des  punilions ,  et  la  justice  sociale ,  qui  veut  des  exemples,  sont 
«  igalement  salisfailes  (aditBerlier)  quand  le  coupable  meurl.  Tout  ce  qui  est  au-dela  est  cruaule, 

e  Uend  a  inspirer,  au  lieu  de  Vhorreur,  de  la  pitie.  » 

( Dictionnaire  general  et  raisonne  de  Legislation. ) 


Pour  la  notice  ci-dessus  de  la  carmagnole  ,  puisee ,  a  ce  qu'il  parait ,  a  plus  d'une  source  ,  je  suis 
redevable  a  la  bienveillance  personnelle  et  aux  recherches  sayantes  de  M.  le  Conservateur  du  Musee 

de  Dinan  et  proprietaire  d'une  tres-belle  bibliothfeque Que  j'exprime ,  en  meme  temps,  mes 

remercimens  a  plusieurs  Messieurs  Frangais  pour  les  services  litteraires  qu'ils  m'ont  rendus  d'une 

manifere  si  aimable,  en  me  pretant,  a  differentes  reprises,  des  livres  de  renvoi,  etc 

S.  P. 


—  79  — 

•  eitenuating  circumstances  »  are  sought  and  found  witli  a  most  anti-homicidal  ingenuity!  Who  would 
ever  think ,  that  one  and  the  same  people  should  have  framed  *  the  law  of  1832  and  seen  the  insurrection 
of  1848  ???    Such  alas !  are  the  mournful  inconsistencies  of  human  nature! 

S.  P. 


•  «  The  law  of  1832  has  justly  abolished  the  punishment  of  death  wherever  the  life  of  individuals  is 
not  concerned.  » 

«  The  same  law  has  suppressed  the  mutilation,  which,  in  the  penal  code  of  1810,  preceded  the 
death  of  a  parricide.  «  The  justice,  which  enacts  punishments,  and  the  social  justice,  which  requires 
-■  examples,  are  equally  satisfied  »  (says  Berlier)  «  when  the  criminal  is  put  to  death.  All  beyond  is 
x  cruelly,  and  tends  to  inspire  commiseration  for  the  criminal  instead  of  horror  at  the  crime,  u 

( Dictionnaire  general  et  raisonne  de  Legislation. ) 


DINAN. — PRINTED  BY  J.-B.    HUART.  — 1851. 


BY 


STEPHEN    PRENTIS,    A.   M. 


Al'THOK   OF 


333    2j<a^    ©5"    ^?S23   a^QLli, 


*N§f<*— 


Here  again ,  here  again  ,  on  my  wonderful  wing 
Am  I  back  at  the  earliest  call  of  the  spring 
From  the  land  of  the  now  insupportable  sun  , 
Where  the  minishing  rivers  all  torridly  run  , 
And  the  crocodile  quits  his  untenable  bed 
And  repairs  to  the  rushes  for  shelter  and  shade , 
And  the  lord  of  the  planets  is  blindingly  bright , 
As  he  shoots  from  the  zenith  his  arrows  of  light , 

And  the  verdure  is  found 

Of  the  hue  of  the  ground , 

And  is  pallid  and  dry 

With  the  scorch  of  the  sky, 


—  2  — 

And  the  locust  alone  has  the  power  to  greet 
With  his  chirrup  the  noon  of  the  withering  heat, 
— It  is  there,  that  again 
In  that  sweltering  time , 
To  relraverse  the  main 
And  revisit  the  clime 
Of  the  temperate  breeze 
And  the  burgeoning  trees , 
By  the  thousand  we  meet ,  an  untellable  fleet , 
And  lo !  at  the  dawn 
Of  the  morrow  are  gone  , 
And  are  sailing  together 
The  ocean  of  ether, 
While,  far  and  far  and  far  below, 
The  racing  chasing  billows  go, 
Even  as  we 
In  wild  delight 
Pursue  our  flight 
By  day  and  night 
Over  the  sea , 
Over  the  sea , 
Over  and  over  and  over  the  sea , 
With  never  a  slay 
By  night  or  by  day 
Till  the  voyage  is  done 
And  the  haven  is  won, 
But  on ,  on  ,  on  ,  on , 
Even  as  I , 
Or  low  or  high , 
For  food  or  play 
Am  borne  away 


—   3  — 

Flash ,  dash , 

Dash ,  flash , 

Away,  away,  away,  away, 

Away,  away,  away  and  away, 

And  away  and  away  and  away  and  away!  — 

Here  again ,  here  again ,  on  my  wonderful  wing 
Am  I  back  at  the  earliest  blush  of  the  spring , 
-Of  the  glorious  spring  at  the  earliest  blush , 
And  the  earliest  pipe  of  the  ousel  and  thrush , 
And  the  earliest  fall  of  the  delicate  shower, 
And  the  earliest  leaf  of  the  emerald  bower, 
And  the  earliest  scent  of  the  earliest  flower 
In  the  earliest  hedge ,  where  the  violets  peep , 
And  the  earliest  roses  are  waking  from  sleep , 

Or  with  rapture  are  seen 

To  beyellow  the  green 
By  the  earliest  girls,  that  are  hunting  the  steep, 

The  while  in  the  air 

I  dazzle  'em  there , 
As  about  and  about  and  about  'em  I  sweep 

For  food  or  play, 
Round ,  round , 
Round ,  round , 

Or  chevying  go 

In  the  valley  below 

Hither  and  thither, 

Hither  and  thither, 

Then  dart  away 

In  joyous  mood 

For  play  or  food , 


Flash ,  clash , 

Dash ,  flash , 

Away,  away,  away,  away, 

Away,  away,  away  and  away, 

And  away  and  away  and  away  and  away ! — 

Here  again,  here  again, — but  no  more  can  I  say, 
For  lo !  in  pursuit  of  my  wind-driven  prey , 
I  am  borne  on  my  emulous  pinions  away! — 

Here  again  ,  here  again ,  on  my  wonderful  wing 
Am  I  back  at  the  earliest  blush  of  the  spring, 
-Of  the  glorious  spring  al  the  earliest  blush, 
From  its  earliest  tint  to  the  summery  flush , — 
From  the  blossomy  snow  of  the  wild  cherry-tree 
To  the  bloom  of  the  beech  and  the  hum  of  the  bee, — 
From  the  down  of  the  willow ,  the  bud  of  the  thorn , 
And  the  blade,  of  the  barley,  a-drip  at  the  morn, 
To  the  poppy,  that  glows  in  the  flourishing  corn, 
Where  the  numerous  hatch  of  the  partridge  is  born , 
— At  the  prime  of  the  year 

In  this  fortunate  sphere , 

Where  the  daffodils  spring 

And  the  mavises  sing , 

At  the  birth  of  the  leaves 

To  my  home  in  the  eaves 

Attracted  again 

From  over  the  main , 

In  the  love  to  rejoice 

Of  the  bird  of  my  choice , 

And  ,  the  brooding  begun  , 


Till  the  setting  is  done , 
With  my  solace  to  cheer 
My  affectionate  dear, 
I  am  here ,  I  am  here , — 
With  the  gentle  and  fond 
By  the  annual  pond , 
The  emotion  to  share 
Of  the  faithful  and  fair, 
I  am  here ,  I  am  here , 
As  our  darlings  we  rear 
And  induce  'em  to  fly 
In  the  fields  of  the  sky 
And  to  follow  us  soon 
In  the  azure  of  June 

Up  in  the  air, 

Up  in  the  air, 
Up ,  up,  up  in  the  air, 

Or  chevying  go 

In  the  valley  below 

Hither  and  thither, 

Hither  and  thither, 

Then  dart  away 

In  joyous  mood 

For  play  or  food 

Flash,  dash, 

Dash,  flash, 

Away,  away,  away,  away, 

Away,  away,  away  and  away, 

And  away  and  away  and  away  and  away  !- 

See!  see! 
A  dozen  we  be , 


—  6  — 

Flying  a  race  with  unspeakable  speed , 

A  moment  are  here, 

And  then  disappear, 
Flashes  of  vanishing  lightning  indeed ! — 

Here  again ,  here  again ,  on  my  wonderful  wing 
Am  I  back  at  the  earliest  call  of  the  spring , 
-Of  the  glorious  spring  at  the  earliest  call 
Through  the  summer  to  sojourn  right  on  to  the  fall , 
When  the  leaves  of  the  forest  come  silently  down 
With  their  touching  gradations  of  yellow  and  brown 
And  bescatter  the  pool ,  or  as  sadly  bestrew 
The  unvisited  turf,  that  is  dabbled  with  dew, 

As  they  passively  drop , 

A  deciduous  crop , 

Or  are  loos'd  by  the  breeze 

From  the  desolate  trees, 

That  the  cold  earth  may  bury  'em , 

Cover  and  bury  'em 
Ever  from  sight, 
Gone ,  gone , 
Gone,  gone, 

Like  the  mention  of  man , 

When  he's  finish'd  his  span 

And  his  body  descends 

Where  his  memory  ends 

With  the  hopes  of  his  heart , 

And  the  dreams ,  that  depart 

On  their  fugitive  wing, 

Like  the  swallows  o'  spring, 

When  the  autumn  is  come 


And  the  linnet  is  dumb , 
And  the  herbage  is  pale 
With  the  rime  in  the  vale, 
And  a  million  we  be, 
That  bedarken  together 
The  ocean  of  ether, 
( Like  the  spoil  of  the  trees 
At  the  ravaging  breeze , ) 
As  together  we  meet, 
An  aerial  fleet, 
For  our  southerly  flight 
By  day  and  by  night, 
Over  the  sea , 
Over  the  sea, 
Over  and  over  and  over  the  sea, 
With  never  a  stay 
By  night  or  by  day 
Till  the  voyage  is  done 
And  the  haven  is  won, 
But  on  ,  on ,  on ,  on , 
Even  as  I, 
Or  low  or  high , 
For  food  or  play 
Am  borne  away 
Flash ,  dash , 
Dash,  flash, 
Away,  away,  away,  away, 
Away,  away,  away  and  away, 
And  away  and  away  and  away  and  away!— 

Here  again,  here  again,  on  my  wonderful  wing 
Am  I  back  at  the  earliest  smile  of  the  spring, 


-Of  the  glorious  spring  at  the  earliest  smile , 
When  my  coming  can  sickness  and  sorrow  beguile 
Of  the  weight ,  that  the  winter  but  heavier  made 
With  its  spiritless  hours  of  dispiriting  shade , 
For  the  usher  am  I 

Of  a  sunnier  mood  , 
Of  the  song  in  the  sky 

And  the  song  in  the  wood, 
Of  the  lark  and  the  lay 
At  the  close  of  the  day, 
And  the  pigeon ,  that  coos 

Where  the  zephyr's  a-sleeping , 
And  the  robin ,  that  woos 

Where  the  willow's  a-weeping 
With  his  warble  of  love 
In  the  depth  of  the  grove , 
— Yes ,  yes , 
A  vision  to  bless 
The  eye  of  disease 
And  the  soul  ill  at  ease , 
When  the  winter  is  fled 
And  my  pinions  are  spread 
And  so  gaily  deploy 
In  the  regions  of  joy 
Up  in  the  air, 
Up  in  the  air, 
Up,  up,  up  in  the  air, 
The  usher  am  I 

Of  a  sunnier  mood , 
Of  the  song  in  the  sky 
And  the  song  in  the  wood , 


Of  the  lark  and  the  lay 
At  the  close  of  the  day, 
And  the  pigeon ,  that  cooes 

Where  the  zephyr's  a-sleeping, 
And  the  robin  ,  that  wooes 

Where  the  willow's  a-weeping 
With  his  warble  of  love 
In  the  depth  of  the  grove, 
For  neither,  I  ween ,  on  the  morrow  is  dumb , 
When  the  spring  is  awake  and  the  swallow  is  come , 
—Yes,  yes, 
A  vision  to  bless , 
( The  winter  at  last 
Evanish'd  and  past , ) 
I  am  here ,  I  am  here , 
The  desponding  to  cheer, 
And  to  show,  as  I  fly 
In  the  radiant  sky, 
How  the  soul  shall  ascend 
Of  the  righteous  and  blend 
(When  he  turns  to  the  dust) 
With  the  souls  of  the  just 
And  higher  and  higher, 
Higher  and  higher, 
In  happy  spheres, 
Devoid  of  tears 
And  sorrow- free 
As  angels  be, 
Looking  down  on  Death's  dominion  t 
With  its  own  eternal  pinion 
Soar  away 
To  endless  dav 


—    10   — 

Where  what  mortals  seraphs  call , 
With  their  shining  raiment  on , 
Round  about  his  awful  throne, 
Glorify  the  God  of  all , 
Higher,  higher,  higher  far 
Than  the  highest  swallows  are 
On  the  most  exulting  wing 
In  the  most  enchanting  spring 

Or  in  the  prime 

Of  summer  time , 

When  I  and  they, 

We  melt  away 
(  As  now  I  do ) 

From  human  view , 
Away,  away,  away,  away! 


DINAN. — PRIMED   BY  J.-B.    HUART. —  1S51. 


The  author  of  the  following  little  poem,  when  a  resident  of  Sandling,  near  Maidstone. 
in  Kent,  had  his  attention  directed  to  «  The  Storm-Thrush »  by  an  enthusiastic  neighbour, 
who  avowedly  preferred  it  to  any  other  songster  of  the  wood.  The  former,  soon  afterwards, 
had  an  excellent  opportunity  of  judging  for  himself.  A  thunder-storm  was  brewing  up, 
and  one  bird  in  particular — the  missel-thrush,  as  it  turned  out,  — took  an  evident 
delight  in  communicating  the;  fact.  He  was  perched ,  in  the  middle  of  a  shrubbery,  on 
the  top  of  a  solitary  elm ,  where  his  note ,  wild  to  an  excess ,  kept  measure  with  the 
tempest ,  which ,  though  of  short  duration ,  was  extremely  violent.  At  the  height  of 
it,  the  bird,  whose  song,  by  the  way,— rapid  ,  loud  ,  and  clear, — was  almost  a  continuous 
pipe  of  « tipsy  mirth  and  jollity, »  was  spreading  out  his  wings  and  shaking  them  with 
great  energy.  Perhaps  it  was  a  natural  motion,  occasioned  by  the  rocking  of  the  tree, 
and  adopted  for  the  purpose  of  a  poise.  During  « the  dreadful  pother  o'er  our  heads, » 
Jie  was  really  and  truly  the  sole  performer,  the  blackbird  and  the  common  thrush  , 
(barometers  both,)  that  had  helped  him  to  announce  it,  being  non  inventi  for  the  time. 
In  proportion  as  the  weather  slackened  ,  so  did  his  note  become  ( to  use  the  expression  ) 
more  and  more  rational  :  when  the  hubbub  was  completely  finished .  he  flew  to  the 
ground,  and  commenced  a  vigorous  attack  upon  the  worms.  Altogether,  it  was,  in 
its  way,  an  exciting  spectacle.    The  happy  little  fellow  was  plainly  in  his  element,  and 

he  sang  as  if  he  knew  it  :  hence  the  title  of  the  lines The  description  of  the 

landskip  and  the  storm ,  as  given  below ,  is ,  be  it  said ,  a  general  and  not  a  local 
one  :  the  spot,  where  the  author  stood,  commanded  but  a  very  narrow  view.  As  to 
a  certain  passage  in  his  poem , 

«  I  can  tell  by  the  west, 

«  Which ,  as  wild  as  can  be , 
«  Is  a-working  like  yest 

«  Or  the  spume  of  the  sea,  » 

it  was  his  good  fortune  to  behold ,  some  years  back  ,  that  uncommon ,  though  not 
unique,  action  of  the  sky  from  a  shed  of  La  Coninais  farm,  near  Dinan,  where  he 
had  taken  timely  shelter  from  about  the  very  fiercest  storm ,  which  he  has  ever  been 
a  witness  to  ,  aye,  even  on  the  Jura  or  the  Alps.  The  clouds,  of  a  bright  copper  colour, 
were  in  such  a  state  of  agitation  and  ferment ,  as  not  only  to  authorize  the  homely 
simile  employed,  but  to  dazzle  and  to  pain  the  eye.  The  scene,  which  followed,  was 
precisely  what  the  introduction  promised  ,  —  «  an  unco  and  an  awfu    sight  I  » 


Gilbert  White  says,  tliat,  in  Hampshire  and  in  Sussex,  the  missel-thrush  is  called  the  storm-cock,  because 
its  song  is  supposed  to  forebode  windy,  wet  weather.  In  Kent,  as  has  been  just  stated,  it  is  known  as  the 
storm-thrush.  It  is  the  largest  of  our  singing  birds,  far  exceeding  the  common  thrush  ,  which  ,  however,  it 
much  resembles  in  the  general  style  of  the  plumage,  but  it  is  of  a  more  decided  brown  on  the  upper  parts. 
The  mavis,  again, — as  the  author  learned,  some  time  back,  from  a  peasant  in  the  beautiful  vicinity  of  Gueroe, 
on  the  Ranee, — is  another  variation  of  the  genus...  For  the  benefit  of  the  local  reader  be  it  added,  that  the 
missel-thrush  of  England  is  la  Iroie  or  la  traie  of  Upper  Brittany,  and  thereby  hangs  a  pleasant  anecdote.  At 
an  early  period  of  La  Grande  Revolution ,  a  worthy  patriot ,  owner  of  a  fine  sonorous  voice ,  was ,  -it 
appears,  in  the  G-o'-cloek-a.-m.  habit  of  singing  La  Marseillaise  on  one  of  the  public  walks  of  his  native 
town.  An  elderly  female  hard  by,  who  cared  more  about  her  morning  snooze  than  about  all  the  republican 
principles  then  afloat,  which,  as  it  would  seem  by  the  context,  she  considered  to  bode  no  good,  is  reported, 
on  one  occasion  ,  to  have  popped  her  head ,  «  all  accoutred  as  it  was,  »  out  of  her  chamber- window,  and  to 
have  cried  in  a  shrill  key  :  «  Yoila  la  Iroie  qui  cliante!  »  anil  then  she  popped  it  in  again. 


'  The  etymology  (if  such  indeed  there  be)  of  the  word  Iroie  or  traie  (  for  the  spelling  of  it  is  guess-work 
too)  is  purely  hypothetical.  Perhaps  the  noun  is  a  corrupted  abbreviation  of  the  Breton,  draskl,  (throstle?); 
perhaps  it  owes  its  patois  origin  to  the  cry  of  crrrrre,  grrrre,  trrre ,  Ire ,  tre ,  Ire ,  uttered  by  the  missel- 
thrush,  when  angry  or  alarmed,  to  the  which  sound  the  illustrious  Buffon  and  the  compilers  of  «  L'Hisloire 
•'  Naturelle  »  seem  disposed  to  trace  the  appellation  of  draine,  as  bestowed  upon  the  bird  in  the  province  of 
La  Bourgogne.  But ,  be  that  as  it  may,  of  the  identity  there  cannot  be  a  question,  since  both  the  Breton  and 
the  French  dictionaries  interpret  the  respective  names  of  draskl  and  of  draine  by  grosse  grive ,  id  est,  large 
thrush,  while,  for  la  Iroie  or  la  traie,  the  anecdote  above, — looking  at  the  political  horizon  in  1792  and  the 
tempest  of  events  at  hand ,— clearly  proves  it  to  be  the  storm-cock  ( synonomous  with  the  large  or  missel  or 
storm  thrush)  of  Hampshire ,  Sussex ,  and  elsewhere. 

(For  the  Armorican  part  of  Hie  above  note  1  am  indebted  to  the  very  obliging  researches  of  M'Leeourt  do 
la  Villclhassetz. ) 


C  ?a;o  MfiBgBfflgj  : 


..»:■ 


a^iSKesS?e!S^3s8sKi»syBS»iSSai 


.£0@3L 


.«£•■- 
©£ 


-WtiSlo- 


The  rain ,  the  rain  , 
The  summer  rain  , 
I  want  the  rain 
To  fall  again 
So  fast  and  warm  , 
And  I  want  the  slorm 
And  the  thunder-show'r 
And  my  jovial  hour, 
So  I'll  whistle  'em  up, 
Whistle  'em  up, 
Whistle  and  whistle  and  whistle  'em  up. 

Tirri-whit ,  tirri-whit , 

Tirri-whit,  tirri-whit, 

Ti-whit ,  li-whit , 

Ti-whit,  ti-whit, 

Tirriwhit.  tirriwhit ,  tirriwhit,  lirriwhit. 


Of  all  the  blowing  winds  that  be , 
The  humid  south  's  the  wind  for  me , 
The  humid  soulh ,  that  ends  the  drouth 

And  bids  the  rain 

To  fall  again 


So  fast  and  warm  , 
And  that  brings  the  storm 
And  the  thunder- show'r 
And  my  jovial  hour, 
So  I'll  whistle  it  up , 
Whistle  it  up , 
Whistle  and  whistle  and  whistle  it  up. 

Tirri-whit ,  tirri-whit , 

Tirri-whit,  tirri-whit, 

Ti-whit ,  ti-whit , 

Ti-whit,  ti-whit, 

Tirriwhit ,  tirriwhit ,  tirriwhit ,  tirriwhit. 


The  rain  is  a-coming!  the  rain  is  a-coniing  ! 
By  the  feel  of  the  air, 

That  is  heavy  around , — 
By  the  look  of  the  glare 

That  's  so  gay  on  the  ground , — 
By  the  shadows,  that  drift 

On  the  mirroring  mere , — 
By  the  swallow  and  swift , 

That  are  flying  so  near 
To  its  beautiful  glass 
Or  are  skimming  the  grass 
Where  the  cattle  are  laid 
In  the  willowy  shade , — 
By  the  gleam  of  the  church  , 

That  is  showing  as  white 
As  the  bark  of  the  birch 

On  the  opposite  height , — 
By  the  patches  o'  cloud , — 


—  5  — 

By  the  bend  o'  the  rush , — 
By  the  mavis  as  loud 

As  my  cousin  the  thrush , — 
By  the  ripples ,  that  break 
The  repose  of  the  lake , — 
By  its  bosom  that  heaves  , — 
By  the  silvery  leaves 
Of  the  aspens ,  that  quiver 
More  unquiet  than  ever, — 
By  the  wandering  sigh 
In  the  sycamore  nigh , — 
By  the  visible  stir 
On  the  top  of  the  fir, — 
The  rain  is  a-ooming!  the  rain  is  a-coming! 


The  clouds ,  the  clouds , 
The  sailing  clouds, 
I  want  the  clouds, 
The  meeting  clouds, 
To  fall  again 
In  summer  rain 
So  fast  and  warm , 
And  I  want  the  storm 
And  the  thunder-show'r 
And  my  jovial  hour, 
So  I'll  whistle  'em  up, 
Whislle  'em  up, 
Whistle  and  whislle  and  whislle  'em  up. 

Tirri-wb.it ,  tirri-whit , 
Tirri-whit ,  tirri-whit , 


Ti-whit,  ti-whit, 

Ti-whit,  ti-whit, 

Tirriwhit,  tirriwhit,  tirriwhit ,  tirriwhit. 


The  rain  is  a-coming !  the  rain  is  a-coming 
I  can  tell  by  the  air, 

That  's  a  furnace  around  , — 
I  can  tell  by  the  glare , 

That  becoppers  the  ground , — 
I  can  tell  by  the  west, 

That ,  as  wild  as  can  be  , 
Is  a-work'mg  like  yest 

Or  the  spume  of  the  sea , — 
I  can  tell  by  the  herd , 

That  is  seeking  the  shed , — 
I  can  tell  by  the  bird , 

That  is  hiding  her  head, — 
I  can  tell  by  the  shaw, 

That  is  songless  below, — 
I  can  tell  by  the  caw 

Of  the  fugitive  crow, — 
I  can  tell  by  the  breeze, 

That  is  sweeping  the  plain , — 
I  can  tell  by  the  trees, 

That  are  swinging  amain, 
Swinging  and  shining, 
Swinging  and  shining, 
With  a  noise  and  a  motion, 

In  the  weltering  wood , 
Like  the  turbulent  ocean 

At  the  full  of  the  flood ,— 


I  can  tell,  I  can  tell 
By  the  boughs ,  that  are  torn 

From  the  oak  in  the  vale 
And  are  whirlingly  borne 

By  the  force  of  the  gale , — 

I  can  tell ,  I  can  tell , 
Now  I  'm  piping  alone , 
(For  the  mavis  is  gone, 
And  the  ousel  's  as  hush 
As  my  cousin  the  thrush , ) 
The  rain  is  a-coming!  the  rain  is  a-coming! 


The  clouds!  the  clouds! 

The  sable  clouds ! 

The  clouds  are  all 

Like  a  funeral-pall ! 
But  hark  !  hark  ! 

The  clash!  the  flash! 

The  thunder-crash ! 

The  rattle  and  roll 

From  pole  to  pole ! 
Again  !  again !  again  !  again  ! 

Clash  upon  clash , 

Flash  upon  flash, 

Crash  upon  crash , 
The  storm  has  begun  and  obscur'd  the  sun 
With  the  voluble  rack,  that  is  border'd  with  dun, 

"While  the  arch  of  the  heaven 

Is  momently  riven 

By  the  cleaving  light, 

So  ghastly  bright, 
So  vividly,  lividly,  jaggedly  bright! 


8  — 


The  rain  is  a-coming!  a-coming !  a-coming 

One !  two !  three !  four ! 
The  first  o'  the  storm 
And  as  big  and  as  warm 
As  so  many  drops  of  human  gore! 


Pl-ash !  in  a  second  the  sluices  on  high , 

'Mid  the  echoing  peal  and  the  luminous  play, 
Are  discharging  the  liquid  contents  of  the  sky 

On  the  growth  o'  the  fields,  that  was  waning  away, 
And  are  pouring  and  hissing  and  pattering  down 
On  the  cot  and  the  crib  and  the  neighbouring  town  , 
Which  the  glittering  vapour  is  glimmering  through 
To  enhance  the  effect  of  the  pluvious  view  !— 

Not  a  king  in  his  cups,  when  the  cares  of  his  realm 

He  aside  with  the  trappings  o'  majesty  throws , 
Is  as  happy  as  I  on  the  top  of  the  elm , 
When  the  torrent  descends  and  the  hurricane  blows, 
And  the  shock  and  the  shine 

Of  the  bellowing  cloud , 
And  the  bandying  pine , 

That  's  so  lofty  and  loud , 
And  the  cedar  as  tall 

As  the  huge  sycamore , 
And  the  tree  of  them  all , 

Tbat  's  so  aged  and  hoar, 
And  the  willow  that  grieves, 
And  the  beech  and  the  fir, 
And  the  poplar,  whose  leaves 
Are  for  ever  astir, 


And  the  linden ,  that  towers 

Willi  its  odorous  flowers, 

And  the  numerous  rest , 

That  I  pass  unexprest, 
Whether  heard  or  beheld  in  the  welkin  or  wood , 
May  be  surely  compar'd  to  the  full  o'  the  flood , 

When  the  leap  and  the  flash 
And  the  burst  and  the  roar 

Are  condens'd  in  the  dash 
Of  the  wave  on  the  shore; 

And  this  is  the  rain , 
The  summer  rain, 
So  fast  and  warm  , 
And  this  is  the  storm 
And  the  thunder-show'r 
And  the  jovial  hour 
Of  the  missel-thrush , 

The  jolly  thrush , 

That  pipes  alone , 

All  all  alone, 
At  the  pelt  of  the  summer  storm  ! 
And  its  now  that  I  sing 
Like  a  revelling  king , 
Who  's  divested  awhile  of  the  cares  of  his  realm  , 
As  I  rapidly  swing 
With  my  balancing  wing 
On  the  toss-about  top  of  my  favorite  elm  : 

Let  the  orient  sun  be  the  theme  of  the  lark , 
Let  the  linnet  rejoice  in  the  coppice  at  noon , — 

Let  the  nightingale  wake  at  the  fall  of  the  dark 
To  renew  her  lament  to  the  silvery  moon , — 


—   10  — 

Let  llic  finch  woo  his  love  on  the  resonant  spray 

Where  the  buzz  of  the  fly  and  the  hum  of  the  bee 
Are  aitesting  the  lure  of  the  roseate  May 

Or  the  broom  ,  that  so  yellowly  borders  the  lea  , — 
In  their  home  of  the  while ,  in  their  summer  sojourn  , 

Let  the  robin  discourse  to  his  beautiful  bride, 
And  the  soft-bosom'd  turtle  as  tenderly  turn 

And  respond  to  the  murmuring  thing  at  his  side , — 
Let  the  hues  of  the  morn,  the  meridian  glow, 

Let  the  purple  of  eve  and  the  shades  of  the  night , 
When  Diana  illumines  the  river  below, 

Be  a  matter  to  them  of  respective  delight , 
But  to  vie, — but  to  v^e, — why,  no  pleasure  I  find 

In  the  zephyry  azure,  that  colours  the  air, 
To  compete  with  the  charm  of  the  cloud  and  the  wind, 

Which  engender  the  torrent  and  hurricane  there. 
Let  the  season  of  calm  be  the  season  of  bliss 

Unto  such,  as  the  war  of  the  elements  fear, 
But  the  season  for  me,  it  this, — it  is  this, — 

And  my  time,  it  is  now,  and  my  joy,  it  is  here! 
As  the  sailor  exults,  at  the  head  of  the  mast, 

In  the  loud  and  tempestuous  toss  of  the  sea  , 
So  a  rapture  I  reap  from  the  breath  of  the  blast , 

As  I  swing  on  the  top  of  my  favorite  tree. 

To  each  creature  its  duty,  and  mine,  it  would  seem, 

When  the  ousel  himself  for  the  moment  is  mute , 
Is  to  tell  of  the  might  and  the  mercy  of  him  , 

Who  hath  furnish  'd  the  earth  with  its  various  fruit. 
Then ,  ye  thunders  !  roll  on  , — ye  !  the  voice  of  the  Lord 

Who  commandeth  the  clouds  to  give  drink  to  the  dry, 
To  replenish  the  springs  and  refreshen  the  sward 

And  the  grain ,  that  would  otherwise  wither  and  die. 


—  11  — 

And,  ye  lightnings!  whose  fire  is  the  glance  of  his  eye, 

Flash,  flash  on  the  world,  that  halh  need  of  the  sight, 
To  remind  it  of  one,  who  for  ever  is  nigh, 

In  (he  sun  and  the  storm,  in  the  day  and  the  night; 
Who  can  care  for  the  eagle  and  care  for  the  wren, 

For  the  nest  in  the  rock  and  the  young  in  the  bush , 
And  can  think  ,  in  the  food-failing  drouth-smitten  glen  , 

Of  the  innocent  hatch  of  the  wild  missel-thrush ! 

But  the  iris  is  out,  and  the  landskip  again 

Is  begilt  with  the  glorious  planet  of  day, 
And  the  cattle  are  quitting  the  shed  for  the  plain  , 

Where  the  vapour  is  rolling  in  volumes  away, 
And  the  verdure  around  is  as  gemmy  and  bright 

As  the  diadem  'd  brow  of  a  glittering  queen , 
And  the  vista,  exhaling  before  me,  is  dight 

With  the  richest  of  purple  and  richest  o'  green. 
Yes,  the  tempest  is  o'er,  and  the  tongues  of  the  wood, 

That  the  transient  while  of  its  fury  were  mule , 
Are  combining  to  tell  of  The  Great  and  The  Good , 

Who  hath  furnish  'd  the  earth  with  its  various  fruit, 
He,  whose  voice  is  the  peal,  and  the  glance  of  whose  eye 

Is  the  lire ,  that  is  fraught  with  ineffable  light 
To  remind  us  of  one  ,   that  for  ever  is  nigh  , 

In  the  sun  and  the  storm  ,  in  the  day  and  the  night ; 
Who  can  care  for  the  eagle  and  care  for  the  wren , 

For  the  nest  in  the  rock  and  the  young  in  the  bush , 
And  can  think,  in  the  food-failing  drouth-smitten  glen, 

Of  the  innocent  hatch  of  the  wild  missel-thrush  ! 


DINAH. — P1UNTED   BY   J.-E.    UUAf.T.  —  1S51. 


:m  n  ^©m© 


— <o- 


BY 


STEPHEN    PREMTSS,    A.  M. 


A  IT II  OR     OF 

TiNTERN;  STONEHENGE;  THE  ROCKS  OF  PENMARCTI ;   LE  GRAND-BEY,   OR  THE  TOMB  Of 
CHATEAUBRIAND;  SPECIMENS  OF  TRANSLATION  FROM  THE  FRENCH;  etc.,  ete. 


J.-B.    HUART, 

JD22J&SJ. 


Itfi'.'JU 


m  mimmmm. 


«  Farewell  Life !  my  senses  swim  , 
«  And  the  world  is  growing  dim  : 
«  Thronging  shadows  cloud  the  light, 
«  Like  the  advent  of  the  night — 
«  Colder,  colder,  colder  still , 
«  Upward  steals  a  vapour  chill ; 
k  Strong  the  earthy  odour  grows — 
«  I  smell  the  mould  above  the  rose! 

«  Welcome  Life !  the  Spirit  strives ! 
«  Strength  returns  and  hope  revives; 
«  Cloudy  fears  and  shapes  forlorn 
«  Fly  like  shadows  at  the  mora, — 
«  O'er  the  earth  there  comes  a  bloom. 
<i  Sunny  light  for  sullen  gloom , 
«  Warm  perfume  for  vapour  cold — 
«  I  smell  the  rose  above  the  mould!  » 

Hoo». 


After  having  cited  the  two  stanzas  above, — expressive  (as  they  surely  may  be 
deemed)  of  earthly  despondence  and  spiritual  hope, —  the  author  of  the  following 
meditations  trusts  to  be  excused,  if,  instead  of  dwelling  on  the  soul  and  the 
awful  considerations  connected  therewith,  he  has  passed  them  over  in  comparative 
silence,  leaving  their  mysterious  and  sacred  nature  to  the  reader's  own  suggestive 
thought.  Besides,  was  he  at  liberty  to  write  a  sermon?  in  the  first  place,  he 
is  a  layman  ;  in  the  second ,  his  little  work  was  to  be  offered  to  many  Roman 
Catholic  friends  and  acquaintances  ;  in  the  third  ,  his  fellow-Protestants  of  the 
place ,  in  the  person  of  the  Reverend  Mr  Oxenham ,  have  a  minister  of  The 
Church  of  England,  on  whose  province  neither  policy  nor  courtesy  would  allow 
him  to  encroach.  The  employment  of  our  time  below,  as  the  sequel  will  prove, 
constitutes  the  substance  of  his  serious  remarks,  the  occasional  severity  of  which , 
where  not  of  general  application,  is  directed  against  himself.  Few  individuals, 
indeed ,  have  enjoyed  better  opportunities  of  improving  their  advantages ,  and 
fewer  still ,  he  blushes  to  confess ,  can  have  thrown  them  so  wantonly  away. 


Another  death!  another  burial!  another  sad  provocative  of  thought!  To-day, 
in  all  probability,  will  be  carried  to  his  mortal  home  a  dear  and  venerable  friend , 
who,  as  I  have  learnt  with  unfeigned  grief,  finished  his  career  on  Sunday  last. 
The  circle  shrinks  apace.  The  recent  dissolutions,  so  many  in  so  short  a  time, 
have  clouded,  as  it  were,  my  spirits  and  my  heart.  A  gloom  oppresses  me, 
which,  though  not  insensible  to  distraction,  is  (like  suffering,  beguiled  by  sleep,) 
a  dormant  trouble  at  the  best.  Partly  with  the  hope  of  writing  it  away,  partly 
with  the  aim  of  saying  something  useful,  partly  with  the  wish  of  showing  H.  W. 
that  the  keeping  of  my  promise  to  his  young,  unmothered  children  (my  small 
petitioners)  has  only  been  retarded,  not  forgotten, — with  these  concurring  motives, 
I  say,  have  I  chosen  this  melancholy  spot,  scattered,  as  it  is,  with  the  aiding 
tokens  of  mortality,  to  muse  upon  our  common  end.  But  the  reader  of  these 
reflections  must  count  on  nothing  new.  The  Sabbath  theme  of  every  land,  dilated 
on  in  every  literature,  by  the  Herveys  and  the  Blairs  of  every  tongue,  multiplied 
in  poetry  and  prose ,  the  subject  is  elaborately  trite.  Death ,  moreover,  as  a 
stern  and  practical  reality,  —  a  matter  to  perpend,  a  bereavement  to  lament,  a 
penalty  to  undergo, —  death,  the  universal  and  the  sure,  is  forced  on  every  mind, 
—  the  thought,  the  grief,  the  destiny  of  all.  Well,  to  vie  at  least,  the  constant 
repetition  and  redundant  treatment  of  the  topic  argue  the  importance  of  it ,  and 
the  very  fact  of  its  being  handled,  from  the  earnest  feelings  in  his  breast,  by  a 
layman  and  an  idler,  as  is  now  the  case,  may  add,  perhaps,  to  its  impressive 
character,  and  render  it  more  solemn  still. 

Though  Death,  the  son  of  Sin,  is  ubiquitous  on  earth,  the  cemetary  is  his  stated 
home.  Behold  the  proof!  «Si  monumentum  quarts,  circumspice ! »  The  many 
heaving  turfs, — the  many  wooden  crosses, — the  many  lettered  slabs, — the  many 
graven  tombs,— the  many  holy  texts,  and  summons  to  repentance,  and  calls  for 
interceding  prayers,— the  Crucifix ,— the,  symbols  of  the  charnel-house.  — the  signs 


—  2  — 

of  the  below,  the  grass  so  flourishingly  long,  the  weeds  so  vigourously  green, — the 
mimic  garden-plots  and  tiny  garden-beds ,  yet  big  enough  to  mark  .( the  race  of 
his  ambition  run)  what  once  was  big  enough  to  bury  Caesar, —  the  chaplets,  frail 
memorials  of  a  love,  that  is  mourning  for  a  fate,  so  soon  to  be  its  own!— the 
sable  sorrow ,  bending  at  the  mound ,  which  it  waters  with  its  tears , — the  fitting 
and  funereal  trees,  the  juniper  and  fir,  the  cypress  and  the  willow, — the  ivillow, 
with  its  triste  dishevelled  boughs,  —  that  emblematic  thing,  which  even  as  ourselves, 
( the  weeping  increments  of  clay ! )  is  gendered  by  the  earth  but  to  shadow  and  to 
sadden  it, — so  quick  to  reach  its  prime,  so  quick  to  bear  the  leaf,  so  quick  to 
shed  it  to  the  sod! — scattered,  as  it  is,  I  say  again,  with  the  aiding  tokens  of 
mortality,  have  I  fixed  upon  a  church-yard  (a  fraction  of  the  common  soil)  to 
muse  upon  the  common  doom.  Arrived  at  a  period  of  existence ,  when .  with 
more  than  half  a  century  over  the  head,  a  man  must  look,  not  for  his  elders 
only  but  for  his  coevals  even  (so  small  the  chances  of  longevity!)  to  drop  around 
him  like  the  foliage  at  the  fall,  what  marvel  is  it,  if  amid  these  flowery  sepulcres, 
and  going  deeper  than  the  surface,  I  should,  both  metaphorically  and  literally, 
«  smell  the  mould  above  the  rose  ?  » 

Like  the  poet  on  the  battle-field ,  ( the  *  Zama  of  the  year  before ! )  where  and 
when  (to  use  his  own  words)  he  saw 

«  the  spring 
«  Come  forth  her  work  of  gladness  to  contrive, 
«  With  all  her  restless  birds  upon  the  wing , 
«  And  turn'd  from  all  she  brought  to  all  she  could  not  bring ,  » 

I,  too,  at  the  recurring  jubilee  of  Nature,  am  standing  on  «  a  place  of  sculls. » 
The  animated  air,  the  silent  ground,— the  burgeoning  above,  the  mouldering 
beneath,  —  the  finch  upon  the  fir,  the  worm  upon  the  clod,  —  the  mason  in  the 
vault,  the  butterflies  about, — the  widow  on  her  knees,  the  giddy  little  pair,  who, 
with  the  wonted  carelessness  of  childhood  ,  have  stolen  from  her  side,  and,  forgetful 
of  their  father's,  are  playing  by  a  row  of  early  graves, — how  striking  to  the  mind, 
bow  touching  is  all  this !  Yet ,  palpable  and  painful ,  of  course ,  as  the  contrast 
would  be  at  all  times ,  at  present  it  is  doubly  so.  It  was  but  yesterday  I  heard 
he  was  no  more, —  my  old  acquaintance,  my  old  correspondent,  my  old  guest, 
my  old  friend.  As  I  opened  and  perused  the  letter,  which  conveyed  the  afflicting 
information  of  his  death ,  the  sun  of  March  was  shining  vividly,  and  a  thrush 
was  singing ,  loud  and  clear,  with  all  the  joyous  vitality  of  a  bird  in  early  spring. 
The  distressing  news  could  not  possibly  have  reached  me  at  a  time  or  in  a  place, 
more  adapted  to  enhance  the  befitting  sentiments ,  or  more  effectively  in  keeping 

*  The  star  of  Hannibal  set  at  Zama.     The  lines  are  from  Byron's  «  Childc  Harold,  »  canto  III. 


—  3  — 
with  them.  Some  seven  seasons  back,  with  the  same  sky  and  at  the  same  hour, 
had  we  strolled  together  on  the  same  spot ,  and  gazed  upon  the  same  sight ,  and 
listened  to  the  same  sound.  The  never-ending,  still-beginning  Nature,  for  which 
I  myself,  in  my  poor  degree,  «live  and  move  and  have  my  being, »  had  lost  a 
warm  and  adequate  admirer,  who,  blind  at  last  to  her  varied  and  recurring 
charms ,  was  «  gone  hence  to  be  no  more  seen  , »  —  «  turned  again  to  the  earth  , 

«  where  all  his  thoughts  have  perished  ivilh  him! »     The  sun  of  March,  more 

touching  than  a  tomb,  —  the  bird  of  spring,  more  melting  than  a  requiem,  —  I 
saw  the  one, —  I  heard  the  other, —  and  my  heart  was  full  of  grief,  and  my  eyes 

were  full  of  tears But  it  was  not  a  question  of  mere  private  sorrow, —  a  loss 

confined  to  family  and  friends.  A  virtue  had  gone  out  of  the  intellect  of  the  age : 
another  man  of  genius  was  no  more.  A  bright  intelligence  was  quenched.  After 
a  presence  of  ninety  years  upon  the  earth,  a  rare  mind  —  a  great  talent  —  a  choice 
and  energetic  spirit  —  had  vanished  from  the  scene,  and  was  gathered  to  the  past. 

John  Landseer  was  dead 

And  here,  as  not  irrelevant  to  my  subject,  let  grateful  friendship  be  permitted 
to  add  a  few  encomiastic  words.  Never,  to  my  knowledge ,  would  I  use  the 
language  of  untruth ,  and ,  least  of  all ,  on  consecrated  ground. 

The  genuine  lover  and  keen  appreciator  of  Nature  and  of  Art ,  The  Father  of 
the  Landseers ,  to  an  eminent  extent ,  was  gifted  with  a  soul  to  feel ,  and  a  tongue 
to  utter  what  he  felt.  Surveying  or  describing  the  finer  works  of  God  or  i!an , 
his  heart  was  all  enthusiasm  and  his  speech  was  all  emphasis.  «  Le  feu  sacrd » 
— a  the  sacred  fir  en — burnt  in  him  to  the  last.  With  a  singular  activity  of  body, 
assisted,  no  doubt,  by  his  stronger  activity  of  mind,  he  was  «  himself »  to  the 
closing  year  of  his  protracted  life ,  and  ,  like  his  brother-artist  and  brother- 
nonagenarian  ,  Claude  Loraine ,  «  ingenti  perculsus  amore ,  »  would  up  and  out 
into  the  fields ,  to  worship  with  devoted  eye ,  and  copy  with  devoted  hand ,  the 
glories  and  the  beauties  of  the  heaven  and  the  earth  ,  —  the  splendour  of  the  morning- 
burst,  the  mid-day  glitter  on  a  ruined  tower,  the  sunset  and  the  purple-breathing 
eve.  So  late  as  1851,  he  visited  Stonehenge,  to  view  it  by  the  light  of  the  moon... 
With  a  range  of  intellect,  peculiar  to  himself,  his  faculties  were  constantly  employed. 
They  never  had  a  holiday,  nor  knew  a  relaxation  (as  we  read  of  the  studies  of 
Rousseau)  but  what  was  offered  by  variety.  The  scope  and  the  diversity  were 
equally  astonishing.  From  a  Pyramid  of  Egypt  to  a  simple  cenotaph ,  —  from  a 
history  to  a  fairy-tale, —  from  an  epic  to  an  epigram, —  from  the  velvet  of  the 
waving  wood  to  the  moss  upon  the  quiet  thatch, —  from  the  large  and  level  branches 
of  the  cedar  to  the  gadding  tendrils  and  graceful  foliage  of  the  vine,  the  mother 
of  the  classic  grape, —  from  the  Ocean  to  a  weir, —  from  the  action  of  the  flying 
surge  to  the  plashing  of  a  water-crushing  wheel,— nothing  was  amiss,  nothing  was 
alien  to  a  mind,  which,  turning  to  a  thousand  objects,  collected  something  from 


—  4   — 

them  all.  In  common  with  the  bard  of  Rydal  Mount,  his  philosophy,  natural 
and  moral  too , 

«  Found  tongues  in  trees,  hooks  in  the  running  brooks, 

«  Sermons  in  stones,  and  good  in  everything.  » 

With  what  fervour  would  he  cite  from  Shakespeare !  with  what  gusto  would  he 
talk  of  Suckling!  with  what  relish  would  he  laugh  at  Hood!  How  fondly  would  he 
linger  a  sprig  of  jessamine,  and  pore  upon  the  garden-heath!  With  regard  to 
his  colloquial  powers,  they  were  such  as  might  be  looked  for  in  such  a  man.  His 
fancy  a  mint ,  his  memory  a  mine ,  his  conversation  was  a  treat  indeed !  His 
very  gossip  was  instructive,— an  improving  olio  of  what  he  « imagined »  and  what 
he  «  remembered  »  and  what  he  had  «  remarked.  »  To  crown  the  charm  ,  his 
manner  and  his  tone ,  purely  unaffected  and  native  to  him  both ,  evinced  a  con- 
sciousness of  mental  power.  Certain  to  excite  attention ,  he  was  certain  to  retain , 
and  as  certain  to  reward  it.  Of  him,  in  short,  might  equally  be  said  what  Johnson 
said  of  Burke  :  «  Take  up  whatever  topic  yon  please,  he  is  always  ready  to  meet 
ii  you.  If  a  man  were  to  go  by  chance  at  the  same  time  with  him  under  a  shed, 
k  he  would  say  :  'This  is  an  extraordinary  man'.»... 

And,  as  with  his  abilities,  so  with  his  acquaintances  :  they  were  first-rate. 
The  elite  of  the  literary,  scientific,  and  artistic  world,  he  knew  them  all,  —  every 
body  worth  knowing  in  fact,— and  none  of  them  knew  anything  better  worth  the 
knowing  than  the  knowing  him. 

And  now,  the  man  of  many  thoughts  and  many  means,  of  ready  tongue  and 
ready  pen,  the  subtle  disquisitionist ,  the  close  inquirer,  the  nice  observer,  the 
copyist  of  Nature,  the  judge  of  Art,  the  eloquent  companion,  the  father  and  the 
friend,— what  is  he  now?— materially,  a  thing  of  unideaed  clay,— a  soulless  shell, 
—  a  tenement  untenanted  ,— a  corpse! — immaterially,  a  portion  of  the  preterit, — a 
shadow  in  the  land  of  shades,— a  name, — a  mention, — a  recollection, — a  regret,— 

extolled  by  unresuscitating  praise,  and  wept  with  unavailing  tears! The  place 

of  his  interment  alas!  can  signify  nothing  to  my  subject  :  enough  and  more,  that 
he  is  dead  and  buried,  and  become  a  member  of  that  blank  community,  (myriads 
on  myriads!  myriads  on  myriads!)  whose  « pitcher  is  broken  at  the  well , »—  the 
water  of  whose  being  is  a  drought,  — for  whom  the  fountain  of  existence  has  ceased 
to  flow,  and  the  wheel  of  life  has  stopped!  Obnoxious  to  the  common  law,  he 
has  paid  the  common  penalty,  and  descended  to  the  common  tomb.  Be  it  here 
or  be  it  there,  in  whatever  country  of  the  globe  it  will,  the  sure  finale  is  the 
same  :  we  must  die  and  we  must  rot.  What  matters  to  the  ground  to  what  people 
we  belong?  it  summons  us  as  dust,  and  as  dust  we  must  obey,  and  to  dust 
we  must  return.  There  is  no  nationality  in  the  grave.  Death,  the  old  cosmopolite, 
might  choose  for  his  mortal  motto  :  tequvs  et  ubique.  Man  to  him  is  of  no  race 
but  the  human  :  to  him  the  earth  has  no  geographic  lines.    Before  Babel  was,  he 


is.  What  careth  he  for  tongues?  his  silence  is  a  proverb,  and  his  ministers  are 
mute.  Corruption  has  no  voice, —  the  worm  has  no  language,  —  decay  has  no 
utterance.  We  waste  without  a  sound,  and  we  moulder  in  a  noiseless  cell.  The 
elm  is  taciturn.     Our  sarcophagi  are  dumb. 

How  hush  it  is  !  how  lonely  and  how  hush  !  The  mourner  has  departed ,  the  mason 
has  retired,  the  finch  has  flitted  from  the  fir.  The  place  is  what  it  should  he, — the 
haunt  of  silence,  solitude,  and  thought. 

Did  the  subject  allow  of  a  conceit,  and  were  it  fitted  for  an  allegory,  I  might 
garnish  it  with  figures,  and  clothe  it  in  a  fanciful  disguise;  but  he,  that  has  perused 
(and  who  has  not?)  the  Visions  of  Mirza  and  of  Theodore  on  Life,  will  willingly 
dispense  with  a  Dream  upon  Death,  especially  as  furnished  by  a  meaner  hand. 
Let  us  take  the  latter,  then ,  for  what  it  is ,  —  a  stern  and  palpable  reality.  « The 
«  moral  truth  tells  better  so.  » 

In  this  impassive  spot,  where,  parted  by  a  budding  hedge,  repose  alike  the  natives 
of  two  countries  and  the  followers  of  two  creeds, — in  this  impassive,  melancholy 
spot,  with  a  grave  here  and  a  grave  there,  with  here  a  tomb  and  there  a  tomb, 
what  mournful  verities  are  present  to  the  mind!  On  the  one  hand  I  behold,  in 
spite  of  demarcations,  the  neutral  ground  of  all  colours  and  of  all  faiths;  on  the 
other  I  survey',  as  I  plod  upon  my  human  course ,  the  dusty  goal  where  my  pilgrimage 
must  end.  The  transitory  travellers  of  every  age,  of  every  soil,  of  every  fond 
belief, — the  past,  the  present,  and  the  future  of  my  kind,— the  forfeiters  of  Eden, 
the  patriarchs,  the  first  idolators,  the  mythologists  of  yore,  the  many-sected  Christians, 
the"Mahomedans,  the  pagans  of  to-day,  the  sinners  and  the  sufferers  and  the  votaries 
to  come,  —  their  mortal  terminus  —  their  bourn  —  or  was  or  is  or  will  be  in  the 
sod  :  the  flesh  must  finish  there.  There,  at  every  diurnal  round,  from  the  infant 
of  an  hour  to  the  full  of  years,  an  incalculable  sum  is  added  to  the  list.  If  we 
germinate  like  leaves,  like  leaves  we  wither  too.  Materially  speaking,  the  heir  of 
immortality  has  no  hold  on  life  :  the  image  of  his  Maker  is  outlasted  by  a  tree. 
Created  to  endure,  the  oak  and  elm,  for  instance,  season  after  season  may  count 
upon  their  annual  green ,  but  who  is  there  of  vs  ( the  doubtful  verdure  of  a  single 
spring)  can  reckon  on  a  single  sun?  As  earthward  as  the  willow,  our  wanness  is 
'f  quicker  date.  Our  strength  is  for  ever  on  the  snap.  The  slight  acacia,  fragile 
as  it  is,  has  less  caducity  than  we.  A  thousand  princes  perish  in  the  bud.  A  young 
and  royal  mother,  in  our  own  recollection,  was  buried  with  her  babe, — her  first- 
born,—  a  loving  nation's  double-blighted  hope.    Unrecking  of  their  rank,  Death 

classed  them  with  his  other  spoils,— his  other  withered  leaves No  sooner  is 

the  vital  spark  extinct,  than  state  and  station  are  extinct  as  well.  A  king,  indeed, 
still  clinging  to  regality  and  garmented  with  pomp ,  may  slumber  in  a  fretted  vault , 
but  how  shall  he  escape  the  fretting  worm?  Will  his  velvet  wrap  him  from  decay? 
no!  no!  the  corruptible  must  undergo  corruption,  a  monarch  as  the  meanest  man. 


—  6  — 

There  is  no  rule,  no  sway,  no  sceptre  in  the  grave  but  Death's,  the  grim  tyrant, 
who  «  reigneth  absolute.  » 

«When  I  survey  the  tombs  of  the  great,  »  (says  Addison)  « every  emotion  of  envy 
«  dies  in  me.  »  The  vanity  of  mind  setting  forth  the  vanity  of  body,  they  serve 
at  best  —  those  marble  mockeries  — to  emblazon  the  effete  and  magnify  the  null, 
while  they  aggravate  the  painful,  as  it  were,  by  dragging  a  humiliating  secret  into 
light,  from  which  the  very  pauper,  who  may  chance  to  visit  them,  in  pity  turns 
away.  Is  there,  I  ask,  a  mendicant  on  earth,  that  would  change  his  wallet  for 
an  effigy?  no.  To  the  quick  at  least,  however  poor  and  beset  with  evils  he  may 
be,  the  living  dust  is  better  than  the  dead.  And  so  with  Wealth.  Croesus,  at 
the  last ,  for  all  his  silver  and  his  gold ,  was  nothing  but  a  pinch  of  powdered 
clay!  And  so  with  Avarice,  that  «  layelh  up  riches  and  knoweth  not  ivho  shall 
«  gather  them.  »  The  greedy  is  himself  a  greed  :  the  reptiles  covet  him.  And 
so  with  Luxury.  There  is  no  Pantheon  of  the  palate— no  « supping  with  Apollo»  — 
in  the  grave.  He ,  that ,  in  his  godded  hall ,  had  feasted  the  future  rivals  of 
Pharsalia,  became  (as  they  did)  a  speedy  banquet  for  the  worm.  A  century  gone 
by,  and  the  revelling  Lucullus  was  a  modicum  of  ashes,  —  the  refuse  of  its  maw! 
And  so  with  Ambition  and  with  Pride,  whose  edifying  lesson  was  read  in  Wolsey, 
when,  sick  and  sad,  and  stooping  to  the  brothers  of  a  convent,  he  uttered  those 
pathetic  words  : 

«  An  old  man,  broken  with  the  storms  of  state, 
«  Is  come  to  lay  his  weary  bones  among  ye  : 
«  Give  him  a  little  earth  for  charity !  » 

And  so  with  Glory,  so  with  Beauty But  here,  perhaps,  insertion  may  be 

granted  to  a  few  lines,  extracted  from  a  small  poem,  called  ((Salisbury  Cathedral. » 
They  comprise  what  I  would  say  in  prose. 

(Loquitur  fwmina.) 

«  With  eyes  unwonted ,  and  unwonted  feet , 
And  unaccustom'd  heart,  that  loudly  beat, 
I  trod  the  awful  aisles, — the  solemn  nave, — 
Whose  very  silence  whisper'd  of  the  grave. 


«  In  hueless  shade,  or  many-colour'd  light, 
Or  dimly  visible,  or  sadly  bright, 
The  large  recumbent  statues  of  the  dead 
Unnerv'd  me  so,  it  border'd  upon  dread. 


«  There ,  coldly  effigi'd  in  rotted  stone , 
His  marble  coat-o'-mail  to  atoms  gone, 
Some  fritter'd  knight  ( the  moral  and  the  mock 
Of  Glory)  lay,  a  mutilated  block, 
And  all  his  graven  titles  and  his  trust 
To  so  secure  them  from  oblivion's  rust 
!     Were  vain  and  undecipherable  dust. 


«  And  female  beauty,  self-adoring  thing! 
In  death  itself  itself  still  worshipping, 
Had  brib'd ,  it  may  be ,  with  a  jealous  care , 
The  sculptor's  hand  to  raise  it  even  there 
A  lasting  image  of  its  fleeting  prime, 
But  quite  forgot  the  certain  tooth  of  time, 
Which,  surer  than  the  bone-defeated  worm's, 
To  gritty  crumbs  would  fret  its  chisell'd  charms    » 

And  so  with  holier  and  with  higher  things,  —  the  embodied  uses  of  the  spirit 
and  the  mind,— with  Religion,  Virtue,  Charity,  that,  entient  no  more  in  the  persons 
of  the  dead,  may,  in  a  certain  sense,  be  looked  upon  as  mingled  with  the  dust, 
and  as  good  examples  irrevocably  gone 5  —  with  Learning  and  Instruction,  which 
now  alas!  can  nothing  learn  and  nothing  teach  again;— with  Wisdom  and  with 
Wit,  with  Science  and  with  Art,  which  can  neither  illumine  the  below  nor  yet 
adorn  it ;  —  and  with  Genius  in  fine ,  that  ever  choice  but  often  fatal  gift ,  which  , 
like  the  heir  of  world-informing  Sol,— the  brilliant  victim  of  irregulated  fire, — *  at 
times  is  baneful  to  the  world  itself ! 

Be  the  runner  of  it  who  it  will ,  the  race  achieved  in  more  or  less  of  time , 
with  more  or  less  of  sorrow  as  it  may,  the  meta  of  the  course,  the  sure  finale ,  is 
the  same,  — the  sod.  The  flesh  must  finish  there.  There  —  emphatically  there  —  is 
told  the  simple  story  of  us  all. 


*  The  most  mischievous  turn,  that  superior  powers  (say  a  Diderot's)  can  take,  is  avowed  Infidelity, 
witness  the  successful  scoffers,  who,  « in  accomplishing  their  purpose,  have  unsettled  the  faith  of 
«  thousands;  rooted  from  the  minds  of  the  unhappy  virtuous  all  their  comfortable  assurance  of  a  future 
«  recompence ;  have  annihilated  in  the  minds  of  the  flagitious  all  their  fears  of  future  punishment ; 
«  have  given  the  reins  to  the  domination  of  every  passion ,  and  thereby  contributed  to  the  introduction 
h  of  the  public  insecurity  and  of  the  private  unhappiness,  usually  and  almost  necessarily  accompanying 
«  a  state  of  corrupted  morals.  i/ 

Bishop  Watson's  «  Apology  for  the  Bible.  » 


In  this  impassive  spot,  I  say  again,  where  solitude  and  silence  dwell,  what 
accents  strike  upon  the  mental  ear!  Nor  Greece  nor  Rome,  in  Areopagus  or  Forum , 
was  ever  sensible  of  such  a  power;  for  where  is  the  Demosthenes,  that  has  spoken 
like  the  dust,  or  where  the  Cicero,  that  has  spoken  like  the  clay?  The  triumphs 
of  the  senate  and  the  bar,  aye,  even  of  the  chaire  itself,  are  tame  in  the  comparison. 
An  epitaph  outpreaches  Flechier,  and  Massillon  is  oulsermoned  by  a  stone.  The 
coffin  is  more  eloquent  than  Bossuet,  and  the  coffin-plate,  from  its  very  paucity 
of  words,  has  a  plenitude  of  meaning,  unfound  in  Bourdaloue. 


©BsaSft  

Abbbsw   ;E4atas  — 

The  name— the  day  of  death— the  age.  Behold  the  register  of  high  and  low, — 
the  record  of  the  rich  and  poor, — the  sum  and  substance  of  humanity,— the  short 
sententious  history  of  man!  He  is  born, — he  bears  a  name, — he  dies,— and  tells 
the  dark  how  old  he  was!  Oblivion  sets  the  seal.  The  spade  has  covered  him!... 

«  Ah!  but  to  die  and  go  we  know  not  where! 

«  To  lie  in  cold  obstruction  and  to  rot! 

«  This  sensible  warm  motion  to  become 

«  A  kneaded  clod !  » 

Who  is  there  of  us  all,  that  has  not  acknowledged,  in  wishing  to  prepare  his 
feelings  for  the  inevitable  hour,  the  depressing  force  of  the  sentiment  above?  And 
yet,  at  the  interment  of  a  brother-mortal,  how  quickly  we -consign  him  to  his 
cell,  and  hurry  back  to  life,  as  though  there  were  nothing  more  rational,  forsooth, 
than  that  the  dead  should  be  forgotten  as  fast  as  the  living  can  forget!  That  the 
ant,  impatient  of  impediment,  should  instinctively  remove  the  ant,  which  interrupts 
her  thrift, — that  the  argus,  with  its  pretty  spotted  wings,  like  a  frivolous  ephemera 
as  it  is,  should  droop  not  at  its  fellow-fly,  —  is  in  keeping  with  the  character 
of  each, — with  the  nature  of  the  insect, — but  that  we,  of  infinitely  higher  grade, 
whose  province  is  to  think,  and  whose  thought  should  be  the  future,  (an  immortality 
of  good  or  ill!)  should  follow  to  a  funeral,  be  witness  to  the  solemn  office,  and 
lightly  turn  away, — that  we,  I  say,  obnoxious  to  a  thousand  accidents  and  conscious 
of  a  thousand  sins,  should  look  and  listen  with  so  little  profit  to  ourselves,  is  a 
feature  in  our  volatile  career,  which  forms,  indeed,  a  matter  for  reflection. 

An  attribute  of  reason  is  to  shun  extremes.  Eviting,  then,  on  one  hand,  the 
morbid  sadness,  which  is  the  fatuity  of  grief,  and,  on  the  other,  the  shallow 
sympathy,  which  is  the  desecration  of  it,  let  us  look  on  the  departure  of  a  fellow- 
creature  and  on  his  committal  to  the  ground ,  not  only  as  awful  events  but  as 
awful  war7iings  too,  —  impressive,  and  instructive,  and  wholesome  all  at  once. 


—  9  — 

That,  in  the  general  way,  we  cannot  steadily  regard  Death  I  admit  to  be  a  wise  and 
merciful  provision  of  the  Deity,  but  there  is  a  medium,  a  salutary  medium,  between 
indifference  and  gloom.  The  son  of  Sin  is  a  great  teacher.  If  the  uses  of  adversity 
are  sweet,  the  uses  of  mortality  are  sweeter  still.  They  show  us  how  to  die,  and  , 
properly  perpended ,  are  fraught  with  spiritual  health.  The  portion  of  the  Vale  of 
Tears,  which  is  wept  in  by  the  good,  is  rivered  with  the  waters  of  eternal  life. 
It  is  one  of  the  holy  objects  of  Religion,  that  the  quick  should  be  bettered  by  the 
dead.  But  Common  Sense  as  well  (so  obvious  is  the  common  doom!)  will  gather 
from  the  grave  a  something  to  improve  us,— a  something  to  console  and  strengthen 
us, — a  something  to  reconcile  us  to  age, —  a  something  to  reconcile  us  to  infirmity, — 
to  the  dwindling  of  the  mind, — to  the  wasting  of  the  body,— to  the  sickness  unto 
death,— to  the  final  hour, — to  the  parting  with  the  loved, — to  the  message  for  our 
friends,  the  old  familiar  friends! — to  the  faint  articulation, — to  the  (liming  eye, — 
to  the  incoherent  speech,— to  the  difficult  deep  breath, — to  the  giving  up  the  ghost, — 
to  the  shuttered  chamber, —  to  the  sorrow  by  our  bed,  —  to  the  form  we  cannot  see, — 
to  the  prayer  we  cannot  hear,  —  to  the  kiss  we  cannot  feel,  —  to  the  dismal  prepa- 
rations,—to  the  black  procession, — to  the  tolling  bell, — to  the  yawning  and  expecting 
grave,— to  the  solemn  service,— to  the  lowered  corpse,— to  the  scattered  clay  (the 
typic  tribute!)  falling  on  the  coffin-lid, — to  the  ultimate  «.  amen  hi — to  the  closing 
of  the  book!  —  to  the  going  of  the  mourners,— to  the  careless  filling-in, —  to  the 
silence  and  the  solitude,  to  the  soils  and  the  disgraces,  of  the  tomb,  —  to  dampness 
and  corruption, — to  coldness  and  decay, —  to  darkness  and  the  worm!... 

A  life ,  as  virtuously  spent  as  our  sinful  nature  will  allow ,  is ,  of  course ,  the 
finest  preparation  for  death,  and  the  reminiscence  of  it  the  surest  consolation  in 
dying,  either  of  which  is  clearly  traceable  to  our  fitting  reflections  on  the  grave. 
Another  and  another  visit  there  —  another  and  another  meditation  —  cannot  be 
superfluous,  even  to  the  purest  of  mankind;  of  what  moment,  then,  must  they 
be  unto  the  mass  of  us,  whose  retrospect  is  a  melancholy  scene,  thickly  spotted 
over  with  our  manifold  offences,  or  the  which  (as  painful  in  its  way!)  presents 
us  with  a  barren  track, — a  sterile  sand, — a  blank  of  mental  and  of  moral  idleness, 
so  happily  described  by  the  poet ,  as 

(i  the  dreary  void , 
«  The  leafless  desert  of  the  mind , 
«  The  waste  of  feelings  unemploy'd.  » 

Byron's  «  Giaour. » 

How  many  of  us,  too,  of  doubtful  elevation  in  the  scale,  are  unprofitable  growths, 
showing  no  better  blossom  in  the  spring,  than  what  was  bitten  by  the  blight!— bearing 
in  the  summer  no  better  fruit,  than  what  was  cankered  at  the  core!  And  then,  the 


—   10  — 

autumn  come,  (advantage  on  advantage,  opportunity  on  opportunity,  having  been 
murdered  by  us,  as  it  were,  like  his  victims  by  Macbeth,) 

«  We  have  liv'd  long  enough ;  our  time  of  life 
«  Has  fallen  into  the  sear,  the  yellow  leaf, 
«  And  that ,  which  should  accompany  old  age , 
«  We  must  not  look  to  have ,  but ,  in  its  stead ,  » 

self-condemnation,  self-dissatisfaction,  self-disrespect, —  our  one  talent  buried  in  the 
earth,  — the  sacred  gift  of  Life  irrationally  fooled  away,  —  our  heart  the  seat  of  idle 
passions,— our  head  of  idle  dreams, —  our  mind,  like  the  vineyard  of  the  slothful, 
covered  with  thistles  and  with  thorns,  or  like  a  common,  at  the  best,  partially  and 
lazily  redeemed ,  half  cultivation ,  half  untillage  , — here  a  stunted  crop,  there  a  patch 
of  weeds , — no  order,  no  consistency,— nothing  to  denote  —  nothing  to  deserve — a 
real  intellectual  return,  which  can  only  be  ensured  (on  this  we  may  depend)  by 
intellectual  industry  and  care. 

To  such,  as,  like  myself,  (and  I  write  it  with  repentant  tears)  may  have  squandered 
upon  phantasies  or  worse  the  period  of  their  golden  prime ,  the  churchyard  is  a 
homily  indeed!  It  is  there  that  we  may  learn,  as  we  look  upon  its  lettered  slabs 
and  mark  the  varied  ages  of  the  dead,  the  uncertainly  of  life  and  the  value  of 
the  swift,  irrevocable  thing,  which,  devoid  at  once  of  gratitude  and  sense,  we 
have  rashly  thrown  away!  It  is  there  that  we  may  read,  that  our  transitory  span — 
exposed,  too,  as  we  are,  to  danger  and  to  death  at  every  turn,  — is  too  short  for 
indolence,  and  that  *  Man  has  no  time  to  be  idle.  As  creatures  and  as  fellow- 
creatures,  our  duties  are  incessant,  and  pressing,  and  imperious.  That  we  shrink 
from  the  performance  of  them  is  true,  most  lamentably  true.  Is  Conscience,  then, 
asleep?  on  the  contrary,  it  reasons  with  us  ever  and  anon,  but,  like  the  judge, 
that  shook  before  his  prisoner,  we  answer  as  we  tremble  :  «  Go  thy  way  for 
«  this  time ;  when  I  have  a  convenient  season ,  I  will  call  for  thee.  »  A  con- 
venient season!   a  convenient  season!  alas!  alas!   the  most  we  can  account  our 


*  «  Ars  longa ,  vita  brevis  est,  »  admits  of  a  large  acceptation  ,  and  largely  should  the  trueism  be 
laid  to  heart.  Supposing  the  terras ,  in  such  a  case ,  to  be  contra-distinguishable ,  the  art  of  being 
spiritually  happy  is  to  be  virtuous;  that  of  being  morally  so,  lo  do  our  duty;  of  being  mentally  so, 
to  be  intellectually  well-employed.  The  first  leads  lo  Heaven,  the  second  and  the  third  to  self-approval 
and  to  competence ,  to  profit  and  to  fame.  But  the  shades  of  human  art ,  like  the  shades  of  human 
duty,  are  infinite.  A  something  can  be  done  by  each  of  us,  and,  consequently,  a  something  is  there, 
that  each  of  us  should  do.  We  are  tasked  according  to  our  gifts ,  and  shall  be  judged  according  to 
our  use  of  them.  A  parent  (be  it  added)  may  redeem,  in  the  person  of  his  child,  very  many  things* 
committed  and  omitted  by  himself.  His  offspring,  as  it  were,  gives  him  an  opportunity  (an  inestimable 
chance ! )  of  living  over  again ,  and  lo  nobler  and  lo  belter  purpose  than  before. 


—  11  — 

own  (and  barely  even  that)  is  noiv.    Procrastination  is  the  thief  of  souls  as  'well 
as  time. 

«  To-morrow  and  to-morrow  and  to-morrow 

«  Creeps  on  the  petty  space  from  day  to  day, 

«  While  every  yesterday  has  lighted  fools 

«  The  way  to  dusty  death!  » 

«  home  mihi,  cras  tibi !  » — Behold,  in  its  divine  and  human  application,  the  best 
inscription  for  a  burial-place. 

It  is  there  that  we  may  ask ,  with  the  seaman  in  his  solitary  isle ,  to  what  possible 
desert  of  our's  (the  others  having  perished)  our  continuance  on  the  earth  is  due; 
for  how  often ,  like  the  rebels  at  Sinai ,  have  we  murmured  against  God ,  and , 
even  with  the  manna  of  His  mercy  at  our  lips ,  been  as  thankless  and  idolatrous 
as  they !  Forgetful  of  the  past,  repining  at  the  present,  and  mistrustful  of  the  future, 
how  often  have  we  carped  at  the  beneficence  and  denied  the  benefactor,  embittering 
the  bread  of  Heaven  with  our  discontent,  making  idols  of  our  own  vanities,  and 
sacrificing  at  the  altar  of  our  own  sins !  And  this  in  the  very  face  of  daily  added 
life  and  daily  added  opportunities  of  doing  better,  as  if  the  every  hour  of  them 
(not  one  of  which  is  certain)  were  not  of  inestimable  worth!...  No!  not  a  grave 
but  was  dug  to  our  reproach!...  No!  not  a  stone  but  is  standing  to  our  shame!... 

The  lessons  of  Mortality,  however,  are  by  no  means  confined  to  the  spirit  and 
the  intellect ,— to  a  summons  to  devotion  and  to  study,  —  so  that  we  may  mount 
to  the  everlasting  mansions ,  may  arrive  at  the  golden  goal  of  temporal  success , 
or  achieve  a  footing  on  the  pedestal  of  Fame.  The  cemetary  has  a  larger  scope 
than  this,— a  teaching  more  extensive  still, — for,  universal  in  its  bearing,  it  embraces 
(let  our  abilities,  our  rank,  or  our  years  be  what  they  may)  our  general  instruction, 
our  general  amendment,  and  our  consequent  internal  peace.  There  is,  vernacularly 
speaking ,  a  workyday  happiness  in  this  workyday  world ,  attainable  alike ,  and 
desirable  alike,  by  the  peasant  and  the  prince,  by  the  cotter  and  the  king.  The 
sequel  will  explain.  Indirectly  and  directly,  by  our  sponsors  and  ourselves,  at 
the  baptismal  rite,  at  our  earliest  lisping  of  the  Catechism,  and  at  the  binding 
ceremony  of  Confirmation,  we  engage  v. to  do  our  duty  in  that  state  of  life,  unto 
«  which  it  shall  please  God  to  call  us.  »  Now,  a  churchyard  ( to  so  express  myself) 
is  full  of  ethic  exhortations,  and  contains  a  code  of  morality,  to  edify  us  all.  From 
the  resting-place  of  Genius  to  that  of  the  merest  artisan ;  from  an  Allen's  or  a  Kyrle's 
to  a  spendthrift's  or  a  libertine's,  according  to  the  use  of  the  « talents,  »  allotted 
upon  earth,  there  is  something]  to  imitate  or  something  to  avoid.  The  marble, 
that  attracts  a  pilgrimage ,  may  fritter  over  one ,  from  whom  his  Maker  turn& 
away  His  eyes ,  while  an  adjacent  and  nettle-covered  sod ,  undistinguished  by  a 
stone,  may  be  dear  to  His  approving  ken  and  hallowed  by  His  holy  smile.     The 


—   12  — 

unmeriting  accidents  of  life— the  faineants  of  flourishing  fortuity — may  stand  rebuked 
in  the  presence  of  poverty  and  lowliness,  just  as  I  myself,  in  my  so-called  higher 
sphere ,  am  standing  by  the  hillock  of  a  humble  friend ,  my  good  and  faithful 
servant ,  poor  old  Jeannette  Gautier  ! 

h  And  still  she  fills  affection's  eye, 

«  Obscurely  wise  and  coarsely  kind, 
<c  Nor,  letter'd  Arrogance!  deny 

«  Thy  praise  to  merit  unrefin'd. 

«  Her  virtues  walk'd  their  narrow  round , 

«  Nor  knew  a  pause,  nor  left  a  void, 
«  And  sure  th'  Eternal  master  found 

(i  The  single  talent  well  employ'd, 


Till ,  with  no  throbbing  fiery  pain , 
(c  No  cold  gradations  of  decay, 
«  Death  snapp'd  at  once  the  vital  chain, 
«  And  freed  her  soul  the  nearest  way.  »  * 

But  to  shun  iterations,  and  to  bring  these  meagre  musings  to  a  close. 

Though  sensibly  aware  of  the  sacred  privacy,  to  which  the  departed  have  a  claim , 
it  will,  I  hope,  be  permitted  a  stranger  and  a  Protestant  (whose  by-gone  relations 
with  them  both  are  an  extra  call  on  his  respect)  to  add  his  tribute  to  the  memory 
of  two  public  characters  of  the  place,  that  were  followed  to  the  grave,  a  few  months 
since ,  by  the  common  sorrow  of  their  fellow-citizens , — the  one  of  them ,  Monsieur 
Anselm  Michel,  a  father  to  its  poor, — the  other,  Monsieur  Charles  Neel  Delavigne, 
its  former  head-functionary  for  more  than  fifty  years  of  his  life ,  and  its  munificent 
benefactor  at  his  death.  Such  men  as  these  are  e useful  in  their  generation , »— 
examples  to  copy  and  examples  to  revere.  Again.  The  «  Reflections  in  a  Cemetary 
«  abroad  »  are  in  memorum, — a  blended  offering  of  esteem,  affection,  and  regret. 
With  another  deprecation  of  censure ,  then ,  for  whatever  I  may  say  of  indiscreet , 
let  me  be  allowed ,  as  I  stand  by  their  respective  tombs ,  to  make  an  unnaming 
mention ,  firstly,  of  a  good  and  kind  and  venerable  man ,— of  long  experience  and 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  world,— a  delightful  companion, — of  a  graceful  facility 
at  pleasing  and  being  pleased , — in  manner  and  appearance ,  as  in  word  and  deed , 
the  perfect  model  of  a  perfect  gentleman ,— quiet  in  his  look,  quiet  in  his  speech, 


*  fttulalo  sexu,  from  Johnson's  stanzas  on  the  death  of  Dr  Levett,  a  poor  physician,  whom  he 
harboured  in  his  house,  for  years  together,  in  what  is  now  known  as  «  Johnson's  Court,  »  Fleet 
Street.  —  (The  order  of  the  strophs  has  not  been  exactly  followed. ) 


—  13  — 

quiet  in  his  polish , — the  fine  and  full  impersonation ,  in  short ,  of  all  that  was 
courteous  and  sensible  and  calm ;  secondly,  of  a  deservedly  popular  and  deservedly 
respected  senior,  who ,  with  a  difference ,  was  an  equal  type  of  what  we  regard 
with  partiality  and  applause , — a  strictly  honest  man ,  of  striking  form  and  sterling 
face,  of  manly  carriage  and  of  manly  mien,  abetted  by  a  frank  address  and  a  smile 
of  such  winning  candour  and  benevolence,  as  went  at  once  to  the  heart  of  the 
beholder,  and  made  him  think  the  better  of  his  species  and  himself;  thirdly,  of 

a  lady,  who  fell  a  victim  to  a  lingering  and  hopeless  malady.    Poor  M1S  S ! 

as  she  lay  upon  her  sofa,  the  last  time  she  was  down  stairs  alive,  and  talked 
in  the  same  breath  of  her  coming  fate  and  her  coming  flowers,  she  presented  a 
beautiful  and  touching  proof  of  how  the  gentlest  nature ,  armed  with  a  religious 
trust,  can  brave  the  King  of  Terrors,  and  «m  what  peace  a  Christian  can  die;» 
finally,  of  the  exemplary  scion  of  an  exemplary  stock ,  whose  transmitted  piety 
enabled  her,  (the  mother  of  my  young  petitioners)  though  abruptly  summoned 
from  her  husband  and  her  children ,  to  bow  to  the  Almighty  will ,  to  look  to 
Heaven  through  her  human  tears,  and  meet  her  Maker  with  a  smile. 

In  each  of  the  above  (and  I  might  add  to  the  number  without  stirring  from 
the  path)  we  have  an  edifying  instance  of  how  well  it  is  to  be  prepared, — how 
well  it  is  to  do  our  spiritual  work  in  time, — to  toil  while  it  is  yet  day  and  nbejore 
■a. the  night  cometh,  when  no  man  can  ivork.v  One  and  all  of  them,  they  passed 
away  in  peace.  Yet  it  was  not  but  they  felt — in  tender  earnest  felt — the 
sadness  of  the  parting  hour.  From  the  cradle  to  the  grave,  at  no  time  are  we 
human  with  impunity;  how,  then,  at  the  summons  of  the  sod?  No !  no!  the  ties  of 
earth  are  not  dissevered  thus  :  they  cannot  be  dissolved  without  a  pang.  The 
death-bed  has  its  griefs ,  as  sorrow  has  its  springs.  And  therefore ,  ( like  the 
parents  of  mankind ,  when ,  fondly  looking  round ,  they  sighed  adieu  to  the  Eden  of 
their  heart,)  v. some  natural  tears  they  dropt, —  but  wip'd  them  soon.n  Though 
the  door  of  Life  must  be  shortly  shut  against  them,  a  consolation  lay  beyond  the 
gate.  The  heel  of  Man  they  knew  was  hurt ,  but  the  woman's  seed ,  they  knew 
as  well,  had  bruised  the  serpent's  head.  A  Redeemer  lived,  that  they,  regenerate 
in  him,  might  never,  never  die!  The  work  of  Christianity  was  done  :  athwart  the 
vapour  of  this  nether  world,  they  saw  a  better,  purer,  brighter  realm,  where,  every 
eye  relieved  of  every  tear,  the  loving  and  the  loved  would  meet  again.  In  sinking 
to  their  resting-place,  they  «  smelt  the  rose  above  the  mould! »...,... 


—  15  — 


NOTES. 


-0Q0- 


(1)— Page  1. — The  Sabbath  theme  oj  every  land,  dilated  on  in  every  literature, 

by  the  Herveys  and  the  Blairs  of  every  tongue,  multiplied  in 
poetry  and  prose,  the  subject  is  elaborately  trite. 

Heney's  a  Meditations,  »  Sturm's  «  Reflections ,  »  the  i  Prison-Thoughts  »  of  Dodd,  the  «Nighl- 
i  Thoughts  »  of  Young,  «  The  Grave  »  of  Robert  Blair,  have,  of  themselves ,  pretty  well  exhausted  it. 

(2)— Page  1. — Though  Death,  the  son  oj  Sin,  etc. 

a  To  whom  thus  the  portress  of  Hell-gate  repli'd  : 
'  Hast  thou  forgot  me ,  then ,  and  do  I  seem 
'  Now  in  thine  eye  so  foul  ?  once  deem'd  so  fair 
'  In  Heaven ,  when  at  the  assembly  and  in  sight 
•  Of  all  the  seraphim  with  thee  combin'd 
'  In  bold  conspiracy  against  Heaven's  King , 
'  All  on  a  sudden  miserable  pain 
'  Surpris'd  thee ,  dim  thine  eyes ,  and  dizzy  swum 
'  In  darkness ,  while  thy  head  flames  thick  and  fast 
1  Threw  forth  :  till ,  on  the  left  side  opening  wide , 
t  Likest  to  thee  in  shape  and  countenance  bright 
'  Then  shining  heavenly  fair,  a  goddess  arm'd , 
'  Out  of  thy  head  I  sprung  :  amazement  seiz'd 
'  All  the  host  of  Heaven ;  back  they  recoil'd  afraid 
'  At  first ,  and  call'd  me  Sin ,  and  for  a  sign 
'Portentous  held  me;  but,  familiar  grown, 
'  I  pleas'd ,  and  with  attractive  graces  won 
'  The  most  averse ,  thee  chiefly,  who  full  oft 
'  Thyself  in  me  thy  perfect  image  viewing 
( Becam'st  enamour'd. 


1  At  last  this  odious  offspring  whom  thou  seest , 
'  Thine  own  begotten ,  breaking  violent  way, 

'  Forth  issu'd ,  brandishing  his  fatal  dart 
'  Made  to  destroy !  I  fled  and  cri'd  out  Death ! 
'  Hell  trembled  at  the  hideous  name ,  and  sigh'd 
'  From  all  her  caves ,  and  back  resounded  Death  ! '  » 

Milton's  «  Paradise  Lost.  »  Book  II. 


—  16  — 

(3)  —  Page  2. — what  once  was  big  enough  to  bury  Cwsar,  etc. 

«  0 ,  mighty  Caesar !  dost  thou  lie  so  low ! 
Are  all  thy  conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  spoils , 
Shrunk  to  this  little  measure?  » 

SHAliESrEARE. 

(i  Brave  Percy,  fare  thee  well ! 
111-weav'd  ambition ,  how  much  art  thou  shrunk ! 
When  that  this  body  did  contain  a  spirit , 
A  kingdom  for  it  was  too  small  a  bound  , 
But  now,  two  paces  of  the  vilest  earth 
Is  room  enough !  » 

Ibid.  «  Henry  IV.  »  Part.  I. 

(4)  —  Page  2. — so  small  the  chances  of  longevity  I  etc. 

«  The  bridge  thou  seest,»  said  he,  «is  human  life;  consider  it  attentively. »  Upon  a  more  leisurely 
survey  of  it,  I  found  that  it  consisted  of  threescore  and  ten  entire  arches,  with  several  broken  arches, 
which ,  added  to  those  that  were  entire ,  made  up  the  number  about  an  hundred.  As  I  was  counting 
the  arches,  the  genius  told  me  that  this  bridge  consisted  at  first  of  a  thousand  arches;  but  that  a  great 
flood  swept  away  the  rest,  and  left  the  bridge  in  the  ruinous  condition  I  now  beheld  it  :  «but  tell  me 
further, »  said  he ,  «  what  thou  disco verest  on  it.  »  «  I  see  multitudes  of  people  passing  over  it, »  said 
I,  «and  a  black  cloud  banging  on  each  end  of  it.  »  As  I  looked  more  attentively,  I  saw  several  of  the 
passengers  dropping  through  the  bridge  into  the  great  tide  that  flowed  underneath  it ;  and ,  upon 
further  examination ,  perceived  there  were  innumerable  trap-doors  that  lay  concealed  in  the  bridge , 
which  the  passengers  no  sooner  trod  upon ,  but  they  fell  through  them  into  the  tide ,  and  immediately 
disappeared.  These  hidden  pit-falls  were  set  very  thick  at  the  entrance  of  the  bridge,  so  that  throngs 
of  people  no  sooner  broke  through  the  cloud ,  but  many  of  them  fell  into  them.  They  grew  thinner 
towards  the  middle ,  but  multiplied  and  lay  closer  together  towards  the  end  of  the  arches  that  were  entire. 

«  There  were  indeed  some  persons ,  but  their  number  was  very  small ,  that  continued  a  kind  of 
hobbling  march  on  the  broken  arches ,  but  fell  through  one  after  another,  being  quite  tired  and  spent 
with  so  long  a  walk.  » 

Addison's  «  Vision  of  Mirza.  » 

(5)  —  Page  2. — these  flowery  sepulcres,  etc. 

To  the  famous  one  at  Paris  we  are  indebted  for  the  cemetaries  at  Kensal  Green,  at  Birmingham,  etc.  etc. 
*  England ,  it  appears ,  is  reverting  to  her  good  old  custom  of  decorating  graves.  That  she  does  so  on  a 
larger  scale  than  formerly  is  better  still ;  but  I  would  that  every  burial-place  on  earth  ( how  repulsive 
to  the  thought  are  some  of  them ! )  were  garnished  like  a  pleasure-ground.  Well  for  all  of  us  would 
it  be,  as  all  of  us  may  be  well  assured,  to  look  with  more  complacency  on  death,  relieving,  with  our 


"  See  a  charming  paper  on  Rural  Fuuerals  in  «  The  Sketch-Book  »  of  Washington  Irving.  So  close 
akin  to  one  or  two  of  my  reflections  is  it,  that  to  cite  from  it  were  to  copy  it  all  off,  which ,  unfortunately, 
would  carry  me  too  far.  I  strongly  recommend  the  reading  of  it  :  it  is  full  of  pleasing  information  , 
just  remark ,  and  edifying  pathos. 


—  17  — 

inward  light,  its  gloom-begetting  dark.  The  object  is  to  die  in  peace.  No  appliance  to  resignation, 
tben,  provided  it  be  sane,  should  coldly  be  rejected  or  scornfully  condemned.  Besides,  the  survivor 
may  be  profited  thereby.  The  dead,  I  grant,  can  nothing  see,  can  nothing  hear,  can  nothing  under- 
stand, but  the  mourner  at  his  sepulcre, —  to  him,  at  least,  the  foliage  and  the  flowers,  the  blossoms 
and  the  birds ,  are  a  feeling  and  a  benefit.  There  is  more  than  fancy — more  than  wisdom  even — in 
making  a  garden  of  the  grave.  The  soft  memento  mori  it  presents ,  the  suitable  and  soft  emotions  it 
excites,  are  provocatives  to  piely.  The  duteous  visit  of  the  loving  heart,  the  duteous  office  of  the  loving 
hand  ,  the  duteous  watching  of  the  loving  eye ,  the  sedulous  affection  ,  the  dear  solicitude ,  the  holy 
interest,  in  short,  that  haunts  what  it  adorns  and  strives  to  keep  a  memory  entire,  attests  the  motive 
and  the  use ,  the  value  and  the  virtue ,  of  these  posthumous  parterres. 

«  On  some  fond  breast  the  parting  soul  relies; 

«  Some  pious  drops  the  closing  eye  requires  : 
a  E'en  from  the  tomb  the  voice  of  Nature  cries , 

«  E'en  in  our  ashes  live  their  wonted  fires.  » 

Should  the  grief,  then,  that  bedews  our  dying  pillow,  stop  short  at  our  interment?  we  yearn  for  more 
than  that ,  and  want  it  to  outset  the  worm.  In  considering  the  matter  thus,  and  gazing  on  a  cemetary 
like  this ,  with  all  that  it  possesses  of  solacing  and  suave ,  we  think  of  Milton's  sympathising  angel , 
who  qualified  with  comfort  the  doom  of  Adam  and  of  Eve ,  as ,  quitting  Paradise , 

«  so  late  their  happy  seat , 
«  They,  hand  in  hand,  with  wandering  steps  and  slow, 
k  Through  Eden  took  their  solitary  way.  » 

But  best  ( as  now )  to  view  it  in  the  early  spring.  The  renovated  verdure ,  the  renascent  melody,  the 
unfolding  buds,  the  air-affecting  butterfly,  (the  skyward  emblem  of  the  soul,)  —  these  types  of  our 
futurity  — of  ever-young  beatitude — must  modify  at  once  our  sorrow  and  our  fate.  Death,  as  well  as 
life ,  has  its  poetry,  and  this  is  of  it. 

A  noted  author  and  a  good  man,  the  Reverend  George  Crabbe,  has,  in  his  story  of  the  sisters  , 
introduced  some  touching  stanzas ,  which ,  as  they  bear  affinity  to  the  tenour  of  my  note ,  I  have  a 
double  pleasure  in  transcribing.     They  run  as  follows  : 

a  Let  me  not  have  this  gloomy  view 

About  my  room ,  around  my  bed , 
Cut  morning  roses ,  wet  with  dew, 

To  cool  my  burning  brows  instead. 
As  flow'rs  that  once  in  Eden  grew, 

Let  them  their  fragrant  spirits  shed  , 
And  every  day  the  sweets  renew, 

Till  I ,  a  fading  flower,  am  dead. 

«  Oh !  let  the  herbs  I  lov'd  to  rear 

Give  to  my  sense  their  perfum'd  breath ; 
Let  them  be  plac'd  about  my  bier, 

And  grace  the  gloomy  house  of  death. 
I'll  have  my  grave  beneath  an  hill, 

Where  ,  only  Lucy's  self  shall  know  ; 
Where  runs  the  pure  pellucid  rill 

Vpon  its  gravelly  bed  below ; 


—  18  — 

There  violets  on  tbe  borders  blow, 
And  insects  their  soft  light  display. 

Till ,  as  the  morning  sun-beams  glow. 
The  cold  phosphoric  fires  decay. 

«  That  is  the  grave  to  Lucy  shown , 

The  soil  a  pure  and  silver  sand , 
The  green  cold  moss  above  it  grown , 

Unpluck'd  of  all  but  maiden  hand  : 
In  virgin  earth ,  till  then  unturn'd , 

There  let  my  maiden  form  be  laid , 
Nor  let  my  changed  clay  be  spurn'd , 

Nor  for  new  guest  that  bed  be  made. 

«  There  will  the  lark , — the  lamb ,  in  sport , 

In  air,— on  earth  , — securely  play, 
And  Lucy  to  my  grave  resort , 

As  innocent ,  but  not  so  gay. 
I  will  not  have  the  churchyard  ground , 

With  bones  all  black  and  ugly  grown , 
To  press  my  shiv'ring  body  round , 

Or  on  my  wasted  limbs  be  thrown. 

i  With  ribs  and  skulls  I  will  not  sleep , 

In  clammy  beds  of  cold  blue  clay, 
Through  which  the  ringed  earth-worms  creep;. 

And  on  the  shrouded  bosom  prey ; 
I  will  not  have  the  bell  proclaim 

When  those  sad  marriage  rites  begin  , 
And  boys ,  without  regard  or  shame , 

Press  the  vile  mouldering  masses  in. 

*  Say  not ,  it  is  beneath  my  care ; 

I  cannot  those  cold  truths  allow ; 
These  thoughts  may  not  afflict  me  thert, 

But ,  oh  I  they  vex  and  lease  me  now. 
Raise  not  a  turf,  nor  set  a  stone , 

That  man  a  maiden's  grave  may  trace , 
But  thou ,  my  Lucy,  come  alone , 

And  let  affection  find  the  place. 

*  0  !  take  me  from  a  world  1  hate , 

Men  cruel ,  selDsh ,  sensual ,  cold ; 
And  ,  in  some  pure  and  blessed  state  , 

Let  me  my  sister  minds  behold  : 
From  gross  and  sordid  views  refin'd  , 

Our  heaven  of  spotless  love  to  share ,. 
For  only  generous  souls  design'd, 

And  not  a  man  to  meet  us  there.  » 


—  19  — 

It  was  the  wish  of  Keats  (who  sank  a  victim  to  consumption)  to  die  and  he  interred  at  Home.  That 
the  author  of «  Endymion, »  «  Hyperion,*  and  those  classic  odes  k  To  Psyche, »  «  To  a  Grecian  l'rn,» 
«  7"»  (j  Nightingale,  »  etc.,  should  entertain  and  cherish  it,  was  natural;  that  it  was  fulfilled,  is  fortunate. 
The  thought  was  comforting ,  and  served  to  sooth  the  closing  of  a  life ,  made  up  alas !  of  sickness  and 
chagrin.  The  air— the  sun  —  the  moon — the  stars — of  Italy, —  her  genial  warmth,— her  roses  in  De- 
cember,— the  clime  of  Virgil  and  of  Horace, —  of  Ovid  and  Catullus,— of  Tibullus  and  Propertius, — the 

mythologie  soil! — were  all  consolations — were  all  attractions— to  the  *  gentle  poefs  grave Of  the 

latter  ode  I  quote  a  stroph. 

«  Darkling  I  listen ;  and ,  for  many  a  time , 

I  have  been  half  in  love  with  easeful  Death  , 
Call'd  him  soft  names  in  many  a  mused  rhyme , 
To  take  into  the  air  my  quiet  breath ; 
Now  more  than  ever  seems  it  rich  to  die , 
To  cease  upon  the  midnight  with  no  pain , 
While  thou  art  pouring  forth  thy  soul  abroad 
In  such  an  ecstasy  ! 
Still  wouldst  thou  sing,  and  I  have  ears  in  vain — 
To  thy  high  requiem  become  a  sod.  » 

(6)  —  Page  4. —  In  common  with  the  bard  of  Rydal-Mount ,  his  philosophy, 

natural  and  moral  too , 

■(  Found  tongues  in  trees  ,  books  in  the  running  brooks , 
«  Sermons  in  stones  and  good  in  every  thing.  » 

Shakespeare. 

«  Wordsworth !  of  all  men  who  have  grac'd  our  age , — 

Whether  the  muse  they  serv'd ,  or  in  the  state , 

Stood  at  the  helm  ,  or  in  cathedral  sate , 
Or  judge's  chair,  or  yet  adorn'd  the  page 

Heroic  decni'd ,  surpassing  those  of  yore 

Who  shone  at  I'oictiers,  Cressy,  Agincour! 
None  have  like  thee  from  unknown  sources  brought 
The  light  of  truth  ,  the  feeling,  and  the  thought 

Dwelling  in  humblest  things  :  the  human  heart 
Thou  hast  ennobled ;  and  enlarg'd  the  spheres 

Of  our  perceptions ,  giving  them  a  part 
In  all  that  breathes ;  nor  stone ,  nor  flower  appears , 

Whether  in  lields  or  hills  retir'd  and  holy, 

For  thy  all-comprehensive  mind  too  lowly.  » 

E.  Moxon. 


*  A  bard  of  other  stamp  and  other  powers,  Chiteaubriand—  Rene! — enamoured  of  the  infinite, — in 
love  with  the  illimitable  still, — selected  for  his  resting-place  an  island-rock,  and  there  his  body  lies. 
The  welkin  for  its  chapel-roof,  his  sepulcre  commands  the  open  sea.  His  soul  was  suited  to  the  vast 
and  vague...  How  well  in  keeping  was  the  close  ol  his  career  with  the  most  poetic  part  of  it!  Arrived 


—  20   — 

(7) —  Page  .r>. — The  elm  is  taciturn,  etc. 

«  With  silent  pace ,  as  shadows  come , 
And  dark  as  shadows  be  , 

The  grisly  Phantom  takes  his  stand 
Beside  the  fallen  Tree , 

And  scans  it  with  his  gloomy  eyes , 
And  laughs  with  horrid  glee — 

«  A  dreary  laugh  and  desolate , 

Where  mirth  is  void  and  null , 

As  hollow  as  its  echo  sounds 

Within  the  hollow  skull — 

'  Whoever  laid  this  tree  along 

His  hatchet  was  not  dull ! 

'  The  human  arm  and  human  tool 
Have  done  their  duty  well ! 
Hut  after  sound  of  ringing  axe 
Must  sound  the  ringing  knell ; 
When  Elm  and  Oak 
Have  felt  the  stroke  , 
My  turn  it  is  to  fell ! 

'  No  passive  unregarded  tree , 
A  senseless  thing  of  wood  , 

Wherein  the  sluggish  sap  ascends 
To  swell  the  vernal  hud — 

But  conscious,  moving,  breathing  trunks 
That  throb  with  living  blood ! 

'  No  forest  Monarch  yearly  clad 
In  mantle  green  or  brown  , 

That  unrecorded  lives ,  and  falls 
By  hand  of  rustic  clown — 

But  Kings  who  don  the  purple  robe , 
And  wear  the  jewcll'd  crown. 


at  the  age  of  eighty,  Chateaubriand  observed  a  taciturnity,  which  was  solemnity  as  well.  For  the  last 
few  months ,  he  very  seldom  spoke ,  but  remained  as  sombre  and  as  hush  as  a  forest  of  the  Iroquois. 
«  A  mesure  »  (said  M1'  Amperes,  in  his  funeral  oration  at  Le  Grand-Bey!  )  «  qu'il  approehait  du  lerme 
ii  fatal ,  il  a  paru  se  reveiller  et  se  retirer  en  lui-  meme  dans  la  triste  majeste  d'un  silence ,  qui  sem- 
«  blait  une  anticipation  du  silence  de  la  toiube.  Mais  il  etail  loin  de  demeurer  Stranger  a  ce  qui  so 
'<  passait  autour  de  lui.  » 


—  21   — 

'  All !  little  recks  the  Royal  mind , 

Within  his  Banquet  Hall , 
While  tapers  shine  and  Music  breathes 

And  Beauty  leads  the  Ball, — 
He  little  recks  the  oaken  plank 
Shall  be  his  palace  wall ! 

'  Ah ,  little  dreams  the  haughty  Peer, 
The  while  his  Falcon  flies — 

Or  on  the  blood-bedabbled  turf 
The  antler'd  quarry  dies — 

That  in  his  own  ancestral  Park 
His  narrow  dwelling  lies! 

'  But  haughty  Peer  and  mighty  King 
One  doom  shall  overwhelm  ! 
The  oaken  cell 
Shall  lodge  him  well 
Whose  sceptre  rul'd  a  realm — 
While  he  ,  who  never  knew  a  home , 
Shall  find  it  in  the  Elm ! 

'  The  tatter'd ,  lean ,  dejected  wretch , 
Who  begs  from  door  to  door, 

And  dies  within  the  cressy  ditch , 
Or  on  the  barren  moor, 

The  friendly  Elm  shall  lodge  and  clothe 
That  houseless  man  and  poor  ! 

'  Yea ,  this  recumbent  rugged  trunk , 
That  lies  so  long  and  prone , 

With  many  a  fallen  acorn-cup, 
And  mast ,  and  firry  cone — 

This  rugged  trunk  shall  hold  its  share 
Of  mortal  flesh  and  bone ! 

'  A  Miser  hoarding  heaps  of  gold, 
But  pale  with  ague-fears — 

A  Wife  lamenting  love's  decay 
With  secret  cruel  tears , 

Distilling  bitter,  bitter  drops 
From  sweets  of  former  years— 

'  A  Man  ,  within  whose  gloomy  mind 

Offence  had  darkly  sunk , 
Who  out  of  fierce  Revenge's  cup 
Hath  madly,  darkly  drunk — 
-Grief,  Avarice,  and  Hate  shall  sleep 
Within  this  very  trunk ! 


'  This  massy  trunk  that  lies  along , 
And  many  more  must  fall — 
For  the  very  knave 
Who  digs  the  grave  , 
The  man  who  spreads  the  pall , 
And  he  who  lolls  the  funeral  bell , 
The  Elm  shall  have  them  all ! 

'  The  tall  abounding  Elm  that  grows 

In  hedgerows  up  and  down  ; 
In  field  and  forest ,  copse  and  park , 

And  in  the  peopled  town  , 
With  colonies  of  noisy  rooks 

That  nestle  on  its  crown. 

'  And  well  th'  abounding  Elm  may  grow 

In  field  and  hedge  so  rife , 
In  forest .  copse ,  and  wooded  park  , 

And  mid  the  city's  strife  , 
For  every  hour,  that  passes  by, 

Shall  end  a  human  life ! '  » 

«  The  Elm-Tree  »  of  Hood. 

(8)  —  Page  5.  — Created  to  endure,  the  oak  and  elm,  etc. 

o  Thine  arms  have  left  thee.     Winds  have  rent  them  off 
Long  since ,  and  rovers  of  the  forest  wild 
With  bow  and  shaft  have  burn'd  them.     Some  have  left 
A  splinter'd  stump ,  bleacli'd  to  a  snow7  white. , 
And  some ,  memorial  none  where  once  they  grew. 
Yet  life  still  lingers  in  thee ,  and  puts  forth 
Proof  not  contemptible  of  what  she  can , 
Even  where  death  predominates.    The  spring 
Finds  thee  not  less  alive  to  her  sweet  force , 
Than  yonder  upstarts  of  the  neighbouring  wood  , 
So  much  thy  juniors ,  who  their  birth  receiv'd 
Half  a  millenium  since  the  date  of  thine.  » 

Cowper's  «  Tardley  Oak.  » 


<<  A  goodly  Elm ,  of  noble  girth , 
That ,  thrice  the  human  span  , 

While  on  their  variegated  course 
The  constant  seasons  ran  , 

Through  gale  and  hail  and  fiery  bolt 
Had  stood  erect  as  man.  » 


<(  The  Elm-Tree  »  of  Hood. 


(9) — Page  5.  — A  young  and  royal  mother,  in   our  own  recollection,   teas 

buried  with  her  babe,  —  her  first-born, — a    loving    nation's 
double-blighted  hope ! 

«  (A.  D.  1817.)  The  princess  Cbarlolte  of  Wales,  the  pride  and  darling  of  England ,  was  delivered 
of  a  still-born  child ,  whose  birth  she  survived  only  a  few  hours.  Never  was  grief  more  universal — 
never  was  a  nation's  sorrow  so  deeply  felt,  and  so  generally  manifested.  The  day  of  the  funeral  was 
voluntarily  observed  as  a  day  of  fasting  and  humiliation  throughout  the  three  kingdoms  ;  and  a 
stranger,  witnessing  the  affliction  on  every  countenance ,  might  have  supposed  that  every  family  in 
the  realms  had  been  deprived  of  one  of  its  most  beloved  members.  » 

PlNNOCK. 
«  Hark !  forth  from  the  abyss  a  voice  proceeds ,] 

A  long  low  distant  murmur  of  dread  sound  , 

Such  as  arises  when  a  nation  bleeds 

With  some  deep  and  immedicable  wound ; 

Through  storm  and  darkness  yawns  the  rending  ground  , 

The  gulpli  is  thick  with  phantoms ,  but  the  chief 

Seems  royal  still ,  though  with  her  head  discrown'd , 

And  pale,  but  lovely,  with  maternal  grief 
She  clasps  a  babe ,  to  whom  her  breast  yields  no  relief. 

a  Scion  of  chiefs  and  monarchs ,  where  art  thou '! 

Fond  hope  of  many  nations ,  art  thou  dead  ? 

Could  not  the  grave  forget  thee ,  and  lay  low- 
Some  less  majestic,  less  beloved  head? 

In  the  sad  midnight,  while  thy  heart  still  bled  , 

The  mother  of  a  moment ,  o'er  thy  boy, 

Death  hush'd  that  pang  for  ever  :  with  thee  fled 

The  present  happiness  and  promis'd  joy, 
Which  lill'd  the  imperial  isles  so  full  it  seem'd  to  cloy. 

«  Peasants  bring  forth  in  safety, — can  in  be  , 

Oh!  thou  that  wert  so  happy,  so  ador'd! 

Those  that  weep  not  for  kings  shall  weep  for  thee , 

And  Freedom's  heart ,  grown  heavy,  cease  to  hoard 

Her  many  griefs  for  One  ;  for  she  had  pour'd 

Her  orisons  for  thee ,  and  o'er  thy  head 

Beheld  her  Iris. — Thou  ,  too ,  lonely  lord , 

And  desolate  consort — vainly  wert  thou  wed  ! 
The  husband  of  a  year !  the  father  of  the  dead ! 

«  Of  sackcloth  was  thy  wedding  garment  made ; 
Thy  bridal's  fruit  is  ashes ;  in  the  dust 
The  fair-hair'd  Daughter  of  the  Isles  is  laid, 
The  love  of  millions !     How  we  did  entrust 
Futurity  to  her !  and ,  though  it  must 


—  24  — 

Darken  above  our  bones ,  yet  fondly  deem'd 
Our  children  should  obey  her  child ,  and  bless'd 
Her  and  her  hop'd-for  seed ,  whose  promise  seem'd 
Like  stars  to  shepherds'  eyes :  twas  but  a  meteor  beam'd. 

u  Woe  unto  us ,  not  her ;  for  she  sleeps  well  : 

The  fickle  reek  of  popular  breath  ,  the  tongue 

Of  hollow  counsel ,  the  false  oracle , 

Which  from  the  birth  of  monarchy  hath  rung 

Its  knell  in  princely  ears ,  till  the  o'erstrung 

Nations  have  arm'd  in  madness,  the  strange  fate 

Which  tumbles  mightiest  sovereigns ,  and  hath  flung 

Against  their  blind  omnipotence  a  weight 
Within  the  opposing  scale,  which  crushes  soon  or  late. — 

«  These  might  have  been  her  destiny ;  but  no  , 

Our  hearts  deny  it :  and  so  young ,  so  fair, 

Good  without  effort ,  great  without  a  foe ; 

But  now  a  bride  and  mother — and  now  there ! 

How  many  ties  did  that  stern  moment  tear ! 

From  thy  Sire's  to  his  humblest  subject's  breast 

It  link'd  the  electric  chain  of  that  despair, 

Whose  shock  was  as  an  earthquake's  and  opprest 
The  land  which  lov'd  thee  so,  that  none  could  love  thee  best. 

Byron's  «  Childe  Harold.  »  Canto  HI. 

(10)—  Page  5.—  J\o  sooner  is  the  vital  spark  extinct  than  state  and  station 

are  extinct  as  well. 

Let  us  revert  to  History  for  two  or  three  striking  cases  in  point, — to  Darius,  dead  upon  the  battle- 
field,— to  Pompey,  dead  upon  the  sea-shore, — to  the  Norman  Conqueror,  buried,  out  of  sheer  compas- 
sion ,  by  a  needy  knight, — to  William  Rufus,  with  the  arrow  in  his  heart,  left  utterly  alone, —  to  the 
third  Edward,  (the  Edward  of  the  lyric  Gray,)  abandoned  by  his  children,  and  even  robbed  in  his  last 
moments  by  his  courtiers  and  his  mistress ,  —  to  William  Pitt ,  (who  died  of  Austerlitz ! )  deserted  by 
his  menials  ,  —  etc. 

'11;— Page  5. — A  king,  indeed,  still  clinging  to  regality  and  garmented 

with  pomp,  may  slumber  in  a  fretted  vault,  but  how  shall  he 
escape  the  fretting  ivorm?  Will  his  velvet  wrap  him  from  decay? 

But  the  Pharaohs  and  their  subjects,  at  any  rate,  were  proof  against  the  worm  ?  they  were,  to  keep 
a  modern  Arab  in  fuel  for  his  fire,  and  to  charm  the  virtuosi  of  London  and  of  Paris,  after  a  lapse  of 
3000  years  ,  with  the  cerements  and  the  lineaments  of — withered  apes!  If,  like  the  sacred  wheat, 
they  could  vegetate  anew,  and  reflourish  on  the  ground  sis  feet  high ,  it  would  be  something.  As  it 
is ,  their  mummying  alas !  was  only  a  mummery  the  more. 


—  25  — 

(12)  —  Page  6.  — To  the  quick  at  least,   however  poor  and  beset  with  evils 

he  may  be,  the  living  dust  is  better  than  the  dead. 

«  But  yesterday  the  word  of  Ca?sar  might 

«  Have  stood  against  the  world  :  now  lies  he  there , 

«  And  none  so  poor  to  do  him  reverence.  » 

Julius  Cesar. 

(13)— Page  8. — but  that  we,  whose  province  is  to  think,  and  whose  thought 

should  be  futurity,  etc. 

a  Cogilo,  ergo  sum.  » —  Man  ,  then ,  is  a  being  par  excellence  ?  Yes ,  the  emanation  of  everlasting 
mind.  It  were  well  for  us  to  recollect,  —  that,  from  the  best  exercise  of  the  best  faculties,  some  eminent 
heathen  argued  the  immortality  of  the  soul.  (See  the  last  book  of  Plato"s  «  Republic,"  the  preambles 
to  *  Sallust's  two  histories,  and  the  beautiful  and  con  amore  oration  of  Cicero  for  the  poet  Archias. ) 

(14)  —  Page  10.  — It  is  there  that  ive  may  read,  that  our  transitory  span — 

exposed  too,  as  we  are,  to  danger  and  to  death  at  every  turn—- 
is  too  short  for  indolence,  and  that  man  has  no  time  to  be  idle. 

And  none  to  waste  on  idle  occupations , — «  a  distinction  without  a  difference.  »  One  of  our  saddest 
self-delusions  ( to  put  it  gently  )  is  the  neglecting  what  is  solid,  on  the  visionary  grounds  of  «  having 
«  no  lime  »  to  attend  to  it,  as  if  our  occupations,  forsooth,  could  form  a  fitting  note  (they  would 
inversely  by  the  bye,)  to  « The  Nature  and  Economy  of  Bees!  »  «Had  we  but  the  lime  >•  for  the 
bagatelle  of  history,  our  boyish  erudition  would  recall  to  us  a  circumstance,  which  happened  at  the 
court  of  Alexander  the  Great,  where,  when  a  juggler  had  been  exhibiting  his  skill,  in  shooting 
millet-seed  through  a  tiny  little  hole,  the  king,  to  show  the  store  he  set  by  such  a  subject,  decreed 
him  on  the  spot  a — bushel  of  it!!!  The  anecdote  is  trifling,  I  confess,  but  a  solemn  application 
might  be  found  for  it!...  There  is  an  observation  by  Madame  de  Stael ,  that  no  people  are  so  partial 
to  society,  as  they  who  do  nothing  to  assist  it.  As  a  pendant ,  there  are  none  so  remarkable  for  «  having 
«  no  lime ,  »  as  they  who  do  nothing  else  but  tell  you  so.  A  Guizot  and  a  Brougham  ,  -j-  a  Thierry 
and  a  Prescott ,  «  have  lime  enough  »  for  every  thiug ,  and  why  ?  because  they  know  the  value  of  it , 
and  manage  it  accordingly.  Order,  in  fact ,  is  half  the  battle  :  the  want  of  it ,  which  conspires  to  keep 


'  However  we  may  mourn  for  and  condemn  the  moral  turpitude  of  Sallust,  we  are  bound  to  pay 
homage  to  the  moral  tone  of  his  writings,  as  well  as  to  the  mental  activity  (we  have  but  a  portion  of 
his  works)  and  the  consummate  care  of  the  writer.  In  another  walk  of  Art,  his  description  of  Catiline 
{«  animus  impurus,  dis  hominibusque  infcslus,  nequc  vigiliis  ncquc  quielibus  sedari  poleral  :  ita 
«  conscicnliamcnlemexcilamvaslabat.  Igilur  colos  exsanguis,  fcedi  oculi;  citus  modb,  modb  tardus 
«  incessus ;  prorsus  in  facie  volluque  vecordia  ineral » )  might  have  been  done  by  Dante ,  and  his 
death  of  the  great  traitor  ( <t  Calilina  verb  longe  a  suis  inter  hostium  cadavera  repertus  est,  paullulum 
«  eliam  spirans,  ferociamque  animi,  quam  habueral  vivus,  in  voltu  relincns»)  by  Michael  Angelo. 
His  «  Helium  Jugurlhinum ,  »  again ,  is  a  perfect  gallery  of  pictures. 

7  if  La  Conquele  de  I'Angleterre  <>  and  «  The  Conquest  of  Mexico  »  were  written,  respectively,  by 
blind  men  ! 


—  26  — 

us  poor,  conspires  to  keep  us  ignorant  as  well.  Instead ,  then ,  of  degrading  the  expression ,  insulting 
our  own  understanding ,  and  provoking  the  ridicule  of  one  another  by  «  having  no  time  »  to  improve 
ourselves ,  let  us  begin  and  pass  it  as  it  should  be ,  recollecting  that  we  are ,  albeit  of  inferior  stamp, 
the  fellow-creatures  of  the  brightest  and  the  best ,  who  have  profited ,  adorned ,  or  edified  the  world , 
and  that ,  by  the  favour  of  Above ,  we  are  living  in  an  age  ,  when  human  intellect  and  human  energy 
( abetted  by  a  giant  but  obedient  power,  uusentient  of  fatigue  and  nullifying  space )  have  enabled  us , 
for  the  holy  ends  of  *  Christianity,  of  Civilization,  and  of  Commerce,  to  compass  the  remote  and  unite 
the  separate,  to  skim  the  land  like  the  swallow  of  the  air,  and  to  cross  the  wave  like  the  dolphin  of 
the  deep. 

(lo)  — Page  12.  — like  the  seaman  in  his  solitary  isle,  etc. 

The  reader  of «  Robinson  Crusoe,  «  among  the  other  features  of  that  •{■  admirable  book,  will  not  have 
forgotten  the  sickness  of  the  cast-away,  his  mortal  fears ,  his  fright-extorted  callings  on  the  Lord ,  his 
vague  remorse,  his  meeting  with  the  bible,  his  contrition  as  a  prodigal  son,  his  repentance  as  a  wild 
and  devil-daring  sailor,  his  self-accusals  for  ingratitude  to  God  in  having  confounded  «  Providence  » 
with  «  luck, »  his  slow  interpretation  of  the  word  «  deliverance,  »  his  peace  of  mind  and  after  happiness, 
which,  one  and  all,  have  a  moral  and  a  gist,  an  eloquence  and  a  pathos  of  their  own.  The  conclusion 
of  this  part  of  «  The  Adventures  »  (  which  I  quote )  will  bring  the  antecedent  vividly  to  mind  : 

«  This  touched  my  heart  very  much ,  and  immediately  I  kneeled  down ,  and  gave  God  thanks  aloud 
for  my  recovery  from  my  sickness. 

«  In  the  morning  I  took  the  bible;  and,  beginning  at  the  New  Testament,  I  began  seriously  to 
read  it ,  and  imposed  upon  myself  lo  read  awhile  every  morning  and  every  night ,  not  tying  myself  to 
the  number  of  chapters ,  but  as  long  as  my  thoughts  should  engage  me  :  it  was  not  long  after  I  set 
seriously  to  this  work,  but  I  found  my  heart  more  deeply  and  sincerely  affected  with  the  wickedness 
of  my  past  life ;  the  impression  of  my  dream  revived ,  and  the  words ,  '  All  these  things  have  not 
brought  thee  to  repentance,'  ran  seriously  in  my  thoughts..  I  was  earnestly  begging  of  God  to  give 
me  repentance ,  when  it  happened  providentially  the  very  day,  that ,  reading  the  scripture ,  I  came 
to  these  words,  '  He  is  exalted  a  Prince  and  a  Saviour,  to  give  repentance,  and  to  give  remission.' 
I  threw  down  the  book,  and  with  my  heart  as  well  as  my  hand  lifted  up  to  heaven,  in  a  kind  of 
ecstasy  of  joy,  I  cried  out  aloud,  Jesus,  thou  son  of  David ,  Jesus,  thou  exalted  Prince  and  Saviour, 
give  me  repentance  ! 

«  This  was  the  hist  time  that  I  could  say,  in  the  true  sense  of  the  word ,  that  I  prayed  in  all  my 
life ;  for  now  I  prayed  with  a  sense  of  my  condition ,  and  with  a  true  scripture  view  of  hope ,  founded 
on  the  encouragement  of  the  word  of  God  ;  and  from  this  time ,  I  may  say,  I  began  to  have  hope  that 
Gon  would  hear  me. 


*  Of  how  many  European  settlements  and  the  consequent  exlension  of  Gospel-light  on  now  outlandish 
shores  will  not  Steam,  in  a  few  years  hence,  have  been  the  cause!  See  the  new  Towns  and  the  new 
Churches  and  the  new  Chapels ,  which  are  due  to  it  at  home !  In  the  course  of  time ,  the  young 
Canterbury  may  boast  of  a  Cathedral  like  the  old!  Facility  of  communication  involves  everything 
beneficial  to  humanity. 

-|-The  author  of  it  (singularly  enough  for  my  subject)  was  consulted  by  his  publisher  as  to  the  best 
means  of  helping  off  the  sale  of  Drelincourt's  uninviting  work  upon  «  Death.  »  Defoe  at  once  prepared, 
for  his  insertion  therein  or  his  appendage  thereto ,  the  popular  story  of  M"  Bray  and  The  Canterbury 
Ghost. 


—  27  — 

<t  Now  I  began  to  construe  the  words  mentioned  above ,  '  Call  on  me  ,  and  I  will  deliver  tbee , '  in 
a  different  sense  from  what  1  had  ever  done  before ;  for  then  I  had  no  notion  of  any  Hung  being  called 
deliverance,  but  my  being  delivered  from  the  captivity  I  was  in ;  for  though  I  was  indeed  at  large  in 
the  place,  yet  the  island  was  certainly  a  prison  to  me,  and  that,  in  the  worst  sense  in  the  world;  but 
now  I  learned  to  take  it  in  another  sense.  Now  I  looked  back  upon  my  past  life  with  such  horror,  and 
my  sins  appeared  so  dreadful ,  that  my  soul  sought  nothing  of  God  ,  but  deliverance  from  the  load  of 
guilt  that  bore  down  all  my  comfort.  As  for  my  solitary  life ,  it  was  nothing ;  1  did  not  so  much  as 
pray  to  be  deliveied  from  it,  or  think  of  it;  it  was  all  of  no  consideration,  in  comparison  of  this  :  and 
add  this  part  here ,  to  hint  to  whoever  shall  read  it ,  that  whenever  they  come  to  a  true  sense  of 
things,  they  will  find  deliverance  from  sin  a  much  greater  blessing  than  deliverance  from  affliction.  » 
Is  «  the  burden ,  falling  from  the  back  of  Christian ,  »  more  beautiful  or  powerful  than  this '.' 

(16)  —  Page  11. — making  idols  of  our  own  vanities,  etc. 

«  And  when  the  people  saw  that  Moses  delayed  to  come  down  out  of  the  mount,  the  people  gathered 
themselves  together  unto  Aaron ,  and  said  unto  him ,  Up ,  make  us  gods ,  which  shall  go  before  us ; 
for  as  for  this  Jloses ,  the  man  that  brought  us  up  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt ,  we  wot  not  what  is  become 
of  him. 

<i  And  Aaron  said  unto  them,  Break  off  the  golden  ear-rings,  which  are  in  the  ears  of  your  wives,  of 
your  sons ,  and  of  your  daughters ,  and  bring  them  unto  me. 

«  And  all  the  people  brake  oil'  the  golden  ear-rings  which  were  in  their  ears,  and  brought  them  unto 
Aaron. 

«  And  he  received  them  at  their  hand,  and  fashioned  it  with  a  graving  tool,  after  he  had  made  i(  a 
molten  calf  :  and  they  said,  These  be  thy  gods,  0  Israel,  which  brought  thee  up  out  of  the  land  of 
Egypt.  » 

Exodus.  Chap.  52.  Ver.  1 ,  2 ,  3 ,  i. 

(17)  —  Page  11. — There  is,  vernacularly  speaking,  a  workyday  happiness  in 

this  workyday  ivorld ,  attainable  alike,  and  desirable  alike, 
by  the  peasant  and  the  prince ,  by  the  colter  and  the  king. 

Pope's  couplet , 

«  Like  eastern  kings  ,  a  lazy  state  they  keep , 
«  And  close  conlin'd  to  their  own  palace  sleep , 

would  never  apply  to  the  Alfreds  of  history,  to  its  Charlemagnes,  to  its  Frederics  the  Great,  etc. 
Such  sovereigns  as  these  arc  as  little  of  lie-abeds  as  the  poor  peasant,  that  a  helps  Hyperion  to  his 
«  horse  »  and  «  sweats  in  the  eye  of  Phoebus.  » 

(18)  —  Page  11.  — from  an  Allen's,  or  a  Kyrle's. 

(t  Let  humble  Allen ,  with  an  awkward  shame , 
«  Do  good  by  stealth ,  and  blush  to  lind  it  fame.  » 
Allen,  of  Bath  ,  was  the  one-lime  intimate  of  Pope.     The  good  understanding  ceased  latterly. 

(  Vide  Johnson's  «  Lives  of  the  Poets.  » ) 

N.  B.  A  small  critic  would  rub  his  hands  before  telling  us ,  that  the  couplet  occurs— not  «  in  the 
t<  first  Dialogue  of  the  last  Satires,  on  general  subjects ,»  as  stated  by  the  Doctor,  but— in  the 


—  28  — 

Epilogue  to  them.  Owing  to  two  associates  of  Pope's  (the  one  a  lord,  the  other  a  commoner,)  having 
borne  the  same  name  of  Allen ,  I  have  had  quite  a  hunt  for  the  literary  whereabout  :  even  my  very 
well-read  and  very  obliging  friend ,  the  Reva  H.  T.  Oxenham ,  was ,  for  a  wonder,  at  a  loss  for  the  locality. 

John  Kyrle  ,  with  an  income  of  only  five  hundred  pounds  a  year,  was  «  The  Man  of  Ross.  » 

(See  Pope's  «  Epistle  to  Lord  Bathurst,  ON  THE  USE  OF  RICHES.  »  ) 

(19)  —Page  13.  — finally,  of  the  exemplary  scion  of  an  exemplary  stock,  whose 

transmitted  and  cultivated  piety  enabled  her,  ( the  mother  of 
my  young  petitioners, )  though  abruptly  summoned  from  her 
husband  and  her  children,  to  bow  to  the  Almighty  will,  to  look 
to  Heaven  through  her  human  tears ,  and  meet  her  Maker  with 
a  smile. 

The  lady,  alluded  to  above,  was  a  grand-daughter  of  the  venerable  Archdeacon  Law's,  whose  name 
and  virtues  are  a  cherished  recollection  —  and  rightly  so  —  in  the  Cathedral-town  of  Rochester.  Soon 
after  the  melancholy  death  of  his  descendant  here,  1  received,  in  the  shape  of  a  touching  note ,  innocently 
couched,  and  signed  by  four  trembling  little  hands,  a  request  from  the  unmolhered  children  to  compose 
some  verses  to  her  memory.  In  my  answer  (not  wishing  to  disturb  a  previous  elegy)  I  engaged  myself 
to  write  for  them  a  something  serious  and  pertinent  in  prose.     After  many  interruptions  ,  my  word  is 

kept Poor  things!   «  silver  and  gold  have  I  none,  but  such  as  1  have  I  give  unto  you,  » — my 

Reflections  in  a  Cemetary  abroad. 


—  29  — 
APPENDIX. 

— °Qo— 


As  human  life ,  which  travels  to  the  church-yard ,  is  full  of  baffled  hopes ,  ( edifying 
lessons  all!)  the  antecedent  pages  cannot  have  a  better  appendage,  perhaps,  than 
the  following  stanzas,  written  by  *  a  young  genius,  who,  virtuously  and  wisely. 
from  the  bitter  could  extract  the  sweet,  witness  his  affecting 


@®E    T®    1MSA!?[P<§M™(1IN]TD 


«  Come ,  Disappointment ,  come .' 

«  Not  in  thy  terrors  clad; 
«  Come  in  thy  meekest,  saddest  guise, 
«  Thy  chastening  rod  but  terrifies 
«  The  restless  and  the  bad. 
<c  But  I  recline 
»  Beneath  thy  shrine, 
And  round  my  brow  resign'd,  thy  peaceful  cypress  twine 


«  Though  Fancy  flies  away 

«  Before  thy  hollow  tread , 
a  Yet  Meditation ,  in  her  cell , 
«  Hears,  with  faint  eye,  the  ling'ring  knell, 
«  That  tells  her  hopes  are  dead ; 
«  And  though  the  tear 
«  By  chance  appear, 
Yet  she  can  smile,  and  say,  My  all  was  not  laid  here. 


*  Henry  Kirke  White,  of  SU  John's  College,  Cambridge,  who  died  anno  Domini  1806,  aged  21. 
In  1803,  trusting  the  result  would  serve  to  enter  and  assist  him  at  the  University,  he  published  a 
small  volume  of  poems,  which,  malgre  the  excessive  beauty  of  some  of  them,  was  sneeringly  reviewed 
by  a  leading  periodical  of  the  day.  Hence  the  composition  of  his  melancholy  strophs.  He  was  very 
poor,  very  ailing  ,  and  very  sensitive , — but  the  history  of  «  Unhappy  While  ••  is  known. 


—  SO- 
ic  Come,  Disappointment,  come! 

«  Though  from  Hope's  summit  hurl'd, 
«  Still,  rigid  Nurse,  thou  art  forgiven, 
«  For  thou  severe  wert  sent  from  heaven 
<i  To  wean  me  from  the  world  : 
«  To  turn  my  eye 
«  From  vanity, 
«  And  point  to  scenes  of  bliss  that  never,  never  die. 


«  What  is  this  passing  scene? 

«  A  peevish  April  day ! 
a  A  little  sun ,  —  a  little  rain , 
«  And  then  night  sweeps  along  the  plain , 
«  And  all  things  fade  away. 
«  Man  (soon  discuss'd) 
(c  Yields  up  his  trust, 
And  all  his  hopes  and  fears  lie  with  him  in  the  dust. 


«  Oh  I  what  is  beauty's  power  ? 

«  It  flourishes  and  dies; 
«  Will  the  cold  earth  its  silence  break 
«  To  tell  how  soft ,  how  smooth  a  cheek 
«  Beneath  its  surface  lies? 
«  Mute,  mute  is  all 
«  O'er  beauty's  fall; 
«  Her  praise  resounds  no  more  when  mantled  in  her  pall. 


«  The  most  belov'd  on  earth 

«  Not  long  survives  to-day  : 
«  So  music  past  is  obsolete , 
«  And  yet  'twas  sweet,  'twas  passing  sweet. 
«  But  now  'tis  gone  away. 
a  Thus  does  the  shade 
«  In  memory  fade, 
«  When  in  forsaken  tomb  the  form  belov'd  is  laid. 


—  31  — 

«  Then  since  this  world  is  vain , 

«  And  volatile  and  fleet, 
«  Why  should  I  lay  up  earthly  joys , 
«  Where  rust  corrupts,  and  moth  destroys, 
«  And  cares  and  sorrows  eat? 
«  Why  fly  from  ill 
«  With  anxious  skill , 
When  soon  this  hand  will  freeze,  this  throbbing  heart  be  still? 


«  Come  ,  Disappointment ,  come ! 
«  Thou  art  not  stern  to  me; 
«  Sad  Monitress!  I  own  thy  sway, 
«  A  votary  sad  in  early  day, 
«  1  bend  my  knee  to  thee. 
«  From  sun  to  sun 
«  My  race  will  run, 
.«  1  only  bow,  and  say,  My  God ,  thy  ivill  be  done !  » 


DISAN.  —  PI'.lSTEIt   «Y    J.-li.    HUART. 


1852. 


/ 


Written    on    visiting   'THE    VICTORY.'- 


Her  Majesty's  Flag-Ship,  lying  in  Porlsmoulh  Harbour. 


BY 


STEPHEN    PRENTIS,    A.    M. 


'.(  Dulce  ei  decorum  est  pro  pati-in  niori.  » 


J.-B.    HUART, 


&)2Sr&ST. 


1852. 


NELSON, 


OR 


offBB   VI€fOB¥.» 


— «Ts#§>> — 


The  recent  death  of  the  great  compatriot  and  military  pendant  of  « England's  darling  hero,))  by  the 
side  of  whom  the  illustrious  Duke  is  about  to  be  interred  ,  will  excuse ,  perhaps ,  the  reappearance  of 
the  following  stanzas ,  and  even  invest  them  with  an  interest ,  which  may  compensate  the  reader  for 
the  imperfection  of  the  verse.  Among  the  very  earliest  of  the  author's  compositions,  they  were  written 
eighteen  years  ago. 


Thou  ,  of  no  lying  name  , — '  The  Victory  T ' 
The  -winner  of  four  battles  on  the  brine , 

And  sovereign  of  all ,  that  round  thee  lie , 

— The  sons  and  daughters  of  the  mighty  line, — 
How  grand  to  muse  upon  a  race  like  thine, 

And  on  thy  decks  of  glory  to  have  stood , 
And  there  have  hail'd  thy  '  royal  right  divine ,' 

Anointed ,  as  thou  wast ,  with  Nelson's  blood , 
Acknowledg'd  by  the  winds ,  and  homag'd  by  the  flood  f 


In  queenly  guise — while  others  come  and  go, 
Or  near  thy  presence  for  a  summons  wait 

To  plough  the  vasty  waters  to  and  fro, — 
Thou  keepest  still  thy  stationary  state, 
And  dost,  with  dignity,  forestall  the  date 

Of  laying  up  thy  timbers  from  the  breeze, 
For  thee  thy  years  not  superannuate, 

But  Albion  pensions  with  the  flag  of  ease 
'The  champion  of  her  ships — the  saviour  of  her  seas. 


And  shame  it  were,  that  thou,  from  such  a  height, 
Shouldst  ever  stoop  to  qualify  and  mar 

Thy  triumphs  with  a  brawl,  or  deign  to  fight 
Against  the  ignoramuses  of  war, 
With  whom  to  cope  Avere  to  succumb  as  far 

As  striking  to  the  Frenchman  would  have  been — 
Yea  !  shame  it  were  to  sink  from  Trafalgar 

Down  to  a  squabble  with  the  Algerine, 
Or  soil  thv  laurels  with  the  smoke  of  Kavarin  . 


No,  not  for  thee  in  scuffles  to  engage 

With  Dey  or  Sultan,  Arab  or  the  Turk. 
To  lash  the  felon — strife  at  times  to  wage 

With  slaves — is  well — but  not  a  monarch's  work. 

As  Philip's  son  disdain'd  within  the  cirque 
With  aught  but  kings  for  kingdoms  to  compete, 

So  thou,  as  regally,  shouldst  scorn  to  jerk 
The  glove  before  such  rivals,  as  would  meet 
Less  foil  in  thv  success,  than  thou  in  their  defeat — 


r5o,  not  for  thee,  whose  Bronte*-bearing  oak 
The  Lord  of  Thunder  to  the  pealing  fray 

Transported  like  a  steed,  that  spurn'd  the  yoke 
Of  Gaul,  and  whose  great  rider,  in  dismay, 
Scar'd  her  bold  eagle  from  the  wave  away, 

To  trail  its  bleeding  pinion  on  the  shore, 
And  limit  to  the  land  its  lust  of  prey, 

When  he,  awakening  the  cannon's  roar, 
Went  bounding  o'er  the  deep ,  to  conquer  as  before- 


Ko,  not  for  thee  to  quit  this  pale  of  rest, 
This  briny  mead,  this  paddock  of  the  main, 

Old  charger  of  the  elements!  and  breast 
The  shock  of  then-  united  strength  again, 
Or  climb1,  with  daring  keel,  the  stormy  reign 

Of  sky-insulting  billows,  heard  afar. — 

No,  not  for  thee  to  leave  this  quiet  plain, 

To  whose  repose  thy  just  pretensions  are, 
Tnulon — the  Hieres — St.  Vincent — Trafalgar.. 


Art  thou ,  with  many  memories  so  rife , 

Art  thou,  indeed,  a  thing  without  a  thought?* 
A  mere  machine  ?  a  mass  ,  devoid  of  life  ? 

Insensible  ?  with  not  a  feeling  fraught  ? 

It  cannot  be  :  -J-  thou  surely  must  have  caught 
Some  gleam  of  soul ,  some  flash  of  sympathy, 

Of  and  for  him,  who  such  conceptions  brought 
To  being  here,  and  died  when  done,  or  why 
These  consecrated  planks — ah !  wherefore  should  they  cry 

*'«  He  was  fond  of  his  Sicilian  title  '.  the  signiiication,  perhaps,  pleased  him; — Duke  of  Thunder  was  - 
■what  in  Dahomy  would  he  called  a  strong  name;  it  was  to  a  sailor's  taste;  and,  certainly,  to  no  man 
•could  it  ever  be  more  applicable.  ;> 

Soulhey's  Life  of  Nelson,  vol.  ii.  page  68. 

f. Though  the  universality,  so  to  speak,  of  «  Southey's  Life  of  Nelson  »  would  seem  to  render  them 


—  6  — 

«  Stop  !  for  thou  treadest  where  a  hero  trod ' 
<>  Then  pause  aud  ponder  on  this  hallow'd  deck, 

«  Where  man  was  made  the  instrument  of  God 
«  To  curb  ambition,  and  its  schemes  to  check, 
«  As  Buonaparte's  star  became  a  speck, 

«  Jeer'd  by  the  sea,  and  laugh' d  at  by  the  show'r 
«  Of  shotted  fire,  that  left  his  fleet  a  wreck, 

«  Tor  Treedom,  shy  of  military  poAv'r, 
To  England  had  assign'd  the  Ocean  for  a  dow'r. 


«  Happy,  at  least,  to  walk  these  boards  once  more, 

«  More  happy  still,  once  more  to  face  the  foe, 
«  And  sick  of  self,  and  angry  with  the  shore, 
«  The  sum  of  his  emotions  who  can  know, 
«  As,  pacing  up  and  down,  and  to  and  fro, 
«  He  stole  from  war  some  bitter  moments  brief 
«  To  match  the  present  with  the  long  ago  ? 
— ■<•  The  joy  of  pure  affection  with  the  grief 
<>  Of  love  without  respect,  that  ach'd  without  relief 


«  Save  from  the  tomb,  where  Death  was  on  the  watch, 

«  Not  with  his  eye  of  customary  stoue, 
«  Nor  hand  of  usual  apathy,  to  snatch 

«  Britannia's  blind,  but  single-hearted  son 

«  From  the  worse  grasp  of  witching  Hamilton ! 
«  And  therefore  had  he  cast  the  fatal  ball, 

■<  Against  the  coming  battle  should  be  won, 
«  And  bade  him  wear  his  proud  insignia  all, 
«  That  what  had  urg'd  his  rise  might  stimulate  his  fall ! 

superfluous,  I  cannot — standing,  as  it  were,  on  the  threshold  of  my  poor  poetic  version  of  its 
sublimely  simple  close, — let  slip  the  opportunity  of  gladly  and  gratefully  owning  my  obligations  to  that 
master-piece  of  biography,  whose  spirit-stirring  narrative,  from  first  to  last,  thrills  one  like  the  sound 
of  a  trumpet. 


«  Stop  !  for  thou  standest  where  a  hero  fell"! 

«  Then  pause  and  ponder  on  this  motto'd  brass, 
■■•  Which,  here  inlaid,  imparts  too  clearly  ay  ell 

«  A  sadder  meaning  to  these  words  alas  ! 

«  Than  when,  like  wildfire,  spreading  in  the  grass, 
«  'England  expects  each  man  to  do  his  duty  ' 

«  To  all  her  men  a  winged  warning  was, 
«  That  never  would  she  see  her  home  of  beauty, 
Her  altars,  and  her  hearths,  a  pillage  and  a  booty. 


«  And  thus  the  combat  join'd,  the  fight  began, 

ii  With  confident  huzzas  and  sthring  cheers, 
«  As  soon  as  that  pervading  signal  ran 

«  From  ship  to  ship ,  and ,  filling  France  with  fears . 

«  Its  fiat  sounded  in  her  conscious  ears, 
«  Contending,  as  she  was,  in  such  a  cause, 

«  "Where  Glory  no  indemnifying  tears 
o  Vouchsafes  the  dead,  nor  where  the  patriot  draws 
A  sword  in  the  defence  of  country,  king,  and  laws. 


«  Of  numbers,  dropping  round  him,  as  the  corn 

o  Beneath  the  sickle  in  the  harvest-time, 
<■  These  to  the  deep,  and  those  below  are  borne, 

«  Some  in  their  autumn,  some  their  summer's  prime, 
«  And  some  cut  off  by  their  sharp  April's  rime. 
«  Too  fierce  to  last,  the  storm  will  overblow 
"  Ere  yonder  bells  shall  strike  another  chime, 
-«  But  hark  !  what  means  that  sudden  cry  of  woe  ? 
Tis  Nelson  of  the  Nile ! — he  said  it  would  be  so. 


—  8  — - 

..  See  !  the  red  life  is  ebbing  from  his  breast-, 
-  Yet  weep  not — kneel  not — on  his  face  to  look , , 
But  bear  him  to  the  cock-pit  with  the  rest, 
<  In  character  with  one,  who  never  took 
«  Advantage  of  his  station,  nor  could  brook 
o  The  prior'  claimant  of  a  shatter'd  limb 

«  Should  suffer  unattended  in  his  nook , 
«  And  care  be  lavish'd  only  upon  him, 
Whose  sight — and  sound — and  sense — are  dizzv — dull — and  dins.* 


«  Again  !  again  !  again  '  another  tier 

«  Of  many-bolted  vengeance  from  the  guns 
<•  Of  England  ,  and  another  'nother  cheer ! 

«  Another  trophy,  wrested  from  the  Dons  ! 

o  Another  flag ,  from  Gallia's  striking  sons  ! 
"'Call  Hardy  hither.' — Hardy's  on  his  knees. — 

"'The  day?' — 'Our  own.' — 'Then  anchor,  and  at  once.'^- 
"'But  Collingivood' — 'So  long  as  God  may  please, 
<'Shall  none  but  Nelson  act  for  Nelson  on  the  seas. 


"'Do  you  then  anchor.' — And,  so  saying,  he 

«  Strove  hard  to  quit  his  pallet ,  but  in  vain — 
"  His  hours  were  number'd,  and  it  might  not  be. — 

"'I'm  dying,  Hardy!  and  this  vital  pain 
— "'Ah!  would  it  were  at  peace  !  and  yet  I  fain 
"'Would  see  the  close! — Oh!  ever  true  and  tri'd! 

"'Ne'er  bury  your  old  messmate  in  the  main, 
"'To  be  forgotten  of  its  careless  tide, 
"'But  ivhere  my  mother  sleeps,  and  by  my  father's  side—— 


—  9  — 

^Unless  my  king  this  service-beaten  frame— 
— «'This  worn-out  cover  of  the  inward  man — 
"'Should  ivish  to  moulder  in  some  niche  of  fame.'' 
«(And  here  a  gleam  of  fine  assurance  ran 
«  Across  his  lineaments,  as  though  his  span 
«  Had  •well  been  fill'd.     Then  said  he  with  a  sigh .) 

"'May  Heav'n  forgive  my  errors  as  it  can! 
'■Tve  sinn'd,  I  hope,  not  much. — But,  Hardy,  I 
''Am  wrong  to  keep  you  here. — God  bless  you!  and  Good-Bye 


"'Kiss  me.' — And  Hardy  over  him  did  bend, 

«  With  heart  too  full  for  anything  but  breaking, 

«  And  kiss'd  the  hueless  forehead  of  his  friend, 
o  Just  as  a  woman  would,  her  last  leave  taking 
«  With  loving  lips,  that  lack  the  pow'r  of  making 

■<  Other  adieu — but  Sorrow  has  no  sex. — 
"'So  cureless  is  my  hurt,  so  deadly  aching, 

"''Tioere  better  to  have  linger'd  o?i  the  deck's 
''Congenial  bed  than  ivhere  its  viewless  triumphs  vex 


«'My  unconducive  end  with  vague  suspense.' 

«(And  now  his  voice  grew  gradually  low, 
«  For  death  was  nigh  at  hand.) — "Twos  too  intense 

«'To  last A  few  short  minutes — and  I  go. 

"'My  watch  is  out:  this  flutter  tells  me  so. — 
"'May  England  recollect  the  dear  bequest 

"'Of  Nelson  to  his  country,   that  will  know 
"'Me  by-and-bije ! — Whatever  else  may  rest 
Sin  judgment  against  me — to  her — to  her  at  least — 


—  10  — 

«.lTve  done  my  duty/' — Thus  bis  spirit  pass'd,. 

«  On  other  tops  the  British  hunting  flying, 
»  Still  anxious  for  his  country  to  the  last. — 

«  And  now  that  he  is  on  his  pallet  lying , 

« Dead  to  the  dead,  the  wounded,  and  the  dying,. 
«  Let  Charity  pay  up  her  long  arrears , 

«  And  humanly  reflect ,  with  Pity  vying , 
«  That,  if  upon  his  name  one  blot  appears, 
■■<■  He  only  was  a  man,  and  wash  it  out  with  tears." — - 


—  15  — 

fusion  of  blood  occasioned  an  apprehension  that  the  wound  was  mortal :  Nelson  himself  thought  so  :  a 
large  flap  of  the  skin  of  the  forehead ,  cut  from  the  bone,  had  fallen  over  one  eye ,  and  the  other  being 
blind,  he  was  in  total  darkness.  When  he  was  carried  down,  the  surgeon, — in  the  midst  of  a  scene 
scarcely  to  be  conceived  by  those  who  have  never  seen  a  cockpit  in  time  of  action,  and  the  heroism 
which  is  displayed  amid  its  horrors,— with  a  natural  and  pardonable  eagerness,  quitted  the  poor  fellow 
then  under  his  hands,  that  he  might  instantly  attend  the  admiral.  'No!'  said  Nelson,  'I  will  lake-my 
'turn  with  my  brave  fellows.'    Nor  would  he  suffer  his  own  wound  to  be  examined  till  every  man 

who  had  been  previously  wounded,  was  properly  attended  to.  » How  grand,  too,  is  the  following! 

«  When  the  surgeon  came  in  due  time  to  examine  his  wound ,  ( for  it  was  in  vain  to  entreat  him  to 
let  it  be  examined  sooner,)  the  most  anxious  silence  prevailed  ;  and  the  joy  of  the  wounded  men ,  and 
of  the  whole  crew ,  when  they  heard  that  the  hurt  was  merely  superlicial ,  gave  Nelson  deeper  plea- 
sure, than  the  unexpected  assurance  that  his  life  was  in  no  danger  » «  He  was  now  left  alone ; 

when  suddenly  a  cry  was  heard  on  the  deck,  that  the  Orient  was  on  fire.  In  the  confusion,  he  found 
his  way  up,  unassisted  and  unnoticed,  and,  to  the  astonishment  of  every  one,  appeared  on  the  quarter- 
deck ,  where  he  immediately  gave  orders  that  boats  should  be  seut  to  the  relief  of  the  enemy.  » 

Ibid. 

(11) — -         «  Ne'er  bury  your  old  messmate  in  the  main, 
«  To  be  forgotten  of  its  careless  tide, 
«  But  where  my  mother  sleeps  and  by  my   father  s  side, 

«  Unless  my  king  this  service-beaten  frame 
— «  This  worn-out  cover  of  the  inward  man — 
«  Should  wish  to  moulder  in  some  niche  of  fame.  » 

George  111,  on  receiving  Lord  Collingwood's  dispatch,  said-,  with  much  feeling,  that  the  victory  was 
"very  dearly  purchased  :  a  public  funeral  was  instantly  decided  on ,  and  the  remains  of  Nelson  were 
subsequently  interred  in  St.  Paul's ,  followed  by  thousands  and  by  thousands  in  silence  and  in  tears. 
«The  people  of  England  grieved  that  funeral  ceremonies,  and  public  monuments,  and  posthumous 
rewards,  were  all  which  they  could  now  bestow  upon  him,  whom  the  king,  the  legislature,  and  the 
nation,  would  have  alike  delighted  to  honour;  whom  every  tongue  would  have  blessed;  whose  presence 
in  every  village,  through  which  he  might  have  passed,  would  have  wakened  the  church  bells,  have 
given  school-boys  a  holiday,  have  drawn  children  from  their  sports  to  gaze  upon  him ,  and  '  old  men  from 
■the  chimney  corner,'  to  look  upon  Nelson  ere  they  died.  The  victory  of  Trafalgar  was  celebrated, 
indeed ,  with  the  usual  forms  of  rejoicing ,  but  they  were  without  joy.  » 

Ibid. 

(12) —  «  And  humanly  reflect,  with  Pity  vying, 

«  TJiat,  if  upon  his  name  one  blot  appears, 
«  He  only  was  a  man,  and  wash  it  out  with  tears.  » 

«  The  Accusing  Spirit ,  that  flew  to  Heaven's  chancery  with  the  oath  ,  blushed  as  he  gave  it  in ,  and 
the  Recording  Angel,  as  he  wrote  it  down,  dropped  a  tear  upon  the  word,  and  blotted  it  out  for  ever.  » 

«  The  Death  of  Lefevre.  »    Sterne. 


(T.  O.j 


mw&  m  shs  m&* 


She's  on  the  sea — our  glorious  ship  ! 

She  hails  the  flood — she  greets  the  foam — 
She's  left  the  dock — she's  off  the  slip — 

And  launch'd  upon  her  buoyant  home ! 
Her  race  begun ,  from  deep  to  deep 
Through  storm  and  tempest  shall  she  sweep, 
And  ,  arm'd  with  heart  of  oak ,  shall  go 
To  brave  the  fight ,  and  beat  the  foe ! 

Huzza  !  Huzza  !  Huzza  ! 
And  ,  arm'd  with  heart  of  oak ,  shall  go 
To  brave  the  fight ,  and  beat  the  foe ! — 


—   17  — 
She's  come  from  sea — our  batter'd  ship ! 

Each  mast's  a  wreck — each  sail's  a  rag- 
Her  spars  the  shot  was  seen  to  strip, — 

For  all  was  struck — except  her  flag  ! 
That  flag  above  the  smoke  on  high 
Awhile  beheld  its  rival  fly  ; 
But ,  when  the  cannon's  roar  was  done , 
That  flag  was  flying  all  alone  ! 

Huzza  !  Huzza  !  Huzza  ! 
But ,  when  the  cannon's  roar  was  done , 
That  flag  Avas  flying  all  alone  ! 


She's  fit  for  sea — our  gallant  ship  ! 

Ay,  ev'ry  plank,  from  stem  to  stern, 
She's  fit  to  take  another  trip , 

And  bid  the  tide  of  battle  turn ! 
She  longs  once  more  to  plough  the  main- 
She  longs  to  try  her  strength  again — 
Tor,  tir'd  of  rest,  and  sick  of  shore, 
She's  fit  to  conquer  as  before ! 

Huzza  !  Huzza  !  Huzza ! 
For ,  tir'd  of  rest ,  and  sick  of  shore , 
She's  fit  to  conquer  as  before ! 


THE     COMMON     HOME. 


OR 


fii   ii4?i   aga.3: 


BY 


STEPHEN    PKENTIS,    M.    A, 


J.-B.    HUART, 

18S2. 


Iii  referring,  the  other  day,  to  a  little  volume  of  poems,  that  he  published 
iu  1836,  the  author  was  sufficiently  pleased  with  some  lines,  suggested  to 
him  by  a  visit  to  the  Hanwell  Pauper-Lunatic  Asylum,  to  decide  on  reprint- 
ing them  in  a  neighbourhood  ,  which  contains  that  melancholy  thing  ,  —  a 
mad-house  !  He  has  a  mournful  satisfaction  in  adding ,  that ,  in  no  similar 
establishment  wherever,  can  the  patients  be  treated  with  more  skill,  Avith 
more  care ,  with  more  tenderness ,  than  in  the  one  at  Saint  Esprit ,  near  Dinan , 
by  Messieurs  le  Docteur  Bodinier  and  those  real  labourers  in  Christ ,  « les  Freres 
«  de  Saint  Jean  de  Dieu.  »....  At  the  opening  of  that  excellent  Institution  in 
1835  ,  an  eloquent  paper  was  written  on  the  subject  by  Monsieur  Charles  Bailly, 
President  of  the  local  Court  of  Justice. 


Is  the  opener  of  these  pages  full  of  sensibility?  let  the  poem  be  unread  :  it  would  shake  the  nerves. 
Does  he  stickle  for  propriety?  let  the  sketch  be  unperused  :  it  ivoald  shock  the  taste.  Though  both, 
in  their  respective  styles  and  according  to  the  author's  power,  are  faithful  compositions,  the  mourning 
of  the  one  ( to  so  express  himself )  is  as  palpably  unfitted  to  the  first ,  as  the  motley  of  the  oilier  to 
the  last.  The  «  Sir  Eustace  Grey  u  of  Crabbe ,  «  The  Rake  »  of  Hogarth ,— each  of  them  the  inmate 
of  a  Bedlam,  but  in  all  else  so  differently  drawn  and  coloured — could  not  be  more  unsuited,  the 

former,  to  the  tender-hearted  ,  the  latter,  to  the  scrupulous Albeit,  in  his  visil  of  an  hour,  the 

writer  of  the  verses  and  the  prose  witnessed  but  a  fraction — and  that  the  least  distressing— of  the 
lunatics  at  Han  well ,  he  saw  enough  to  thoroughly  upset  him  for  a  week  and  to  pain  him  for  a  life. 
He  has  copied  and  described  it.  The  traits  of  madness,  as  of  other  things,  are  marked  with  contrast 
and  variety  :  the  dreadful  and  the  droll,  the  sad  and  the  grotesque,  are  often  side  by  side.  Without 
this  preamble,  he  would  have  hesitated  in  printing  off  his  sheet  or  two  of  paper;  with  it,  he 
has  boldly  gone  to  press ,  and — his  brochure  being  published — protests  against  being  rated  for  a 
■work  ,  of  the  real  character  of  which  the  sensitive  and  nice  are  equally  and  honestly  and  timelily 
informed.  They  are  free  agents.  As  to  him,  he  will,  as  usual,  confine  himself  to  distributing  his 
book ,  perplexing  nobody  with  queries  by  and  bye.  After  the  warning  he  has  given ,  he  may  expect 
to  be  unread  ,  but  cannot  consent  to  be  abused. 


ON    WITNESSING   THE    INTERMENT    OF   A   FEMALE   PAUPER,    IN    THE    BURIAL-GROUND 
OF   THE   MIDDLESEX   LUNATIC    ASYLUM  ,    HANWELL. 


^;a-.--- 


Tis  better  thus  ,  thou  poor  unfortunate ! 

Better,  the  body's  functions  too  should  cease 

Tor  ever  like  the  mind's  ,  gone  long  ago  , 

Than  linger  on  to  breathe  the  wretched  breath. 

Of  yonder  beings  ,  late  thy  fellows  in 

Tins  crowded  home  of  void  fatuity. 

Yea  !  better  is  it ,  sunken  ,  as  thou  Avert  , 

Down  to  the  worm  already,  that  the  worm 

On  what  is  left  thee  of  humanity 

Its  ^discriminating  maw  should  glut, 

Thau  that,  as  by  some  stupifwng  drug 

Bev\  ilder'd  and  oppress'd ,  thou  still  sbouldst  creep , 


—  6  — 

A  sad  somnambulist ,  those  -walls  along  , 

Where  none  another  knows — for  what  he  is. 

In  other  ills  companionship  is  found  , 

But  self-absorbing  Madness  in  the  midst 

Of  madness  is  alone — all ,  all  alone. 

The  sailor ,  cast  upon  a  desart  shore  , 

Dew  for  his  drink  ,  and  berries  for  his  food  , 

The  earth  his  hammock  ,  curtain'd  by  the  copse  , 

Whose  ragged  hushes  but  let  in  the  wind , 

Some  solace  gathers  for  his  misery 

In  hardship  at  his  side. — The  widow,  whom 

The  whelming  wave  hath  made  such ,  in  her  woe 

Hies  to  some  sister  in  calamity 

To  wail  together  o'er  the  cruel  surge 

And  savage  flood. — The  childless  mother  seeks 

Some  childless  mother's  hosom  ,  where  to  lay 

Her  desolate  head  ,  her  heavy  loss  compare  , 

Ask  sigh  for  sigh  ,  and  answer  sob  for  sob. 

These  have  some  point  of  union  in  distress — 

Some  mournful  rendezvous —  some  trysting-place — 

Some  nest  of  sorry  comfort  in  the  rock — 

But  Madness  is  alone — all ,  all  alone  ! — 

And  thou ,  poor  witless  captive  ,  as  thou  wast , 

The  prisoner  of  imbecility, 

And  one  of  many  solitary  things , 

Estrang'd  and  unconnected  as  the  rest , 


Didst  pace  ( the  paroxysm  gone  again ) 
Thy  listless  gallery  from  end  to  end , 
From  hour  to  hour,  dreaming — thou  knew'st  not  what- 
Moving — thou  knew'st  not  whither  nor  for  why — 
Till  vacancy  grew  weary  of  itself , 
And  su'd  for  occupation ,  when  old  hahit 
Stood  in  the  stead  of  reason ,  as  the  hand 
Mechanically  pli'd  its  former  task , 
Doing  its  work  like  any  other  wheel. 
But  ah !  what  burning  plough-shares  had  the  mind , 
In  the  ordeal  of  its  agony, 

Shriek'd  over  until  then !     What  searing  thoughts 
Had  eat  their  parching  way  into  the  heart , 
And  dri'd  it  up  to  black  and  bitter  dust ! — 
But  where  the  spark  to  this  devouring  flame , 
That  kindled  to  combustion?    "Who  can  tell? 
Perchance  'twas  Love ,  whose  friction  with  the  soul , 
Like  touchwood  rubb'd  together,  did  emit 
The  scintillating  heat ,  that ,  catching  quick 
The  straws  of  an  uneducated  mind , 
Soon  fasten'd  on  its  weeds  ,  by  Passion  fed  , 
-By  Passion  unrequited  or  ill-starr'd — 
Till  all  was  either  suffocating  smoke 
Or  gusty  fire. — Perchance  'twas  Jealousy, 
Whose  piercing  fang  infus'd  into  thy  veins 
The  venom  of  its  bite ,  till ,  stung  to  wrath  , 


—  8  — 

Thou  ragedst  like  a  storm  ,  whose  lightnings  were 
Worthy  Medea  ,  when  the  flash  of  hell 
Shot  from  her  eyes  ,  far  brighter  than  the  steel , 
That  sore  aveiig'd  upon  their  butcher'd  babes 
The  husband's  insult  to  a  slighted  wife. — 
Perchance  it  was  Remorse  ,  tbat  thou  ,  the  child 
Of  humble  honesty,  shouldst  e'er  have  led 
Disgrace  unto  its  hearth  ,  and  thus  have  cloth'd 
A  father's  limbs  with  sackcloth ,  and  have  strew'd 
A  mother's  head  with  ashes  ,  and  brought  down 
Their  last  grey  hairs  with  sorrow  to  the  grave. — 
Perchance  'twas  Pride  aud  vying  Vanity — 
The  vulgar  resolution  to  outdress — 
'  That  common  curse  of  Woman  ,  high  or  low , ) 
Which  lur'd  thee  ou ,  by  mischievous  degrees , 
Till  show  and  sin  ,  display  and  vice  were  one  ! 
And  then ,  blaspheming  Boldness  in  the  van , 
Thyself  the  tawdry  centre  of  thy  guilt , 
Disease  and  Infamy  on  either  wing  , 
Red  Drunkenness  brought  up  the  reeling  rear, 
Where  Madness  lay  in  ambush ,  and  leap'd  out, — 
Perchance — but  why  the  mournful  guess  pursue  ? 
Suffice  ,  that  thou ,  amid  those  sadd'ning  cells 
And  crazy  air,  didst  dream — and  dream — and  dream  , 
Till  nothing  real  was  but  Death  alone  !— 
Suffice  ,  that  thou  ,  without  a  home  ,  a  friend , 


—  9  — 

Or  one  poor  partner  of  thy  nameless  blood  , 
By  alien  hands  to  alien  hands  consign'd  , 
Wast  thither  borne  ,  awhile  to  ramp  and  rave  , 
And,  after,  of  Life's  melancholy  glass 
To  mope  the  few  remaining  sands  away. — 
Suffice  ,  that  thou ,  whate'er  thou  mayst  have  felt. , 
Canst  feel  no  more.     In  this  impassive  spot , 
Shall  ache  nor  anguish  trouble  thee  again  ! — 
Then  let  not  thy  indignant  spirit  grieve  , 
That  friends  nor  weeping  relatives  be  here 
To  sepulchre  thy  clay,  but ,  in  then'  stead  , 
Two  craz'd  assistants ,  and  the  Man  of  Pray'r, 
And  I  below ,  and  yonder  lark  above  , 
( One  with  a  tear ,  the.  other  with  a  song ,  ) 
Have  seen  thee  to  the  sod.     No  ,  never  let 
Thy  spirit ,  soaring  higher  than  the  lark  , 
Unthankfully  repine  ,  but  bless  with  me 
The  charitable  care  ,  that  daily  spread 
A  table  in  thy  wilderness  of  mind, 
And  smooth'd  the  nightly  pillow  for  thy  brow. 
Yea  !  let  thy  spirit ,  for  a  time  unspherd , 
Descend  and  hallow  with  its  benisons 
The  tender-hearted  wisdom ,  which  ,  in  lieu 
Of  scourge  and  chain  and  dayless  dungeon ,  bade 
The  shrub  to  flourish  and  the  flow'r  to  bloom , 
That  so  the  brain ,  by  Man  unsettled ,  might 


—  10  — 

By  soothing  Nature  haply  be  refix'd. 
Yet  not  alone ,  no  ,  not  alone  the  air , 
The  earth  ,  the  sky  without ,  and  cleanliness 
Within  ,  to  thee  were  open  ,  but  the  voice  , 
The  look  ,  the  action  of  humanity , 
Remonstrance  without  ire  ,  and  rule  without 
Abuse,  were  added  to  the  chance  of  health. — 
And  ,  more  than  all ,  oh  !  let  thy  spirit  bless 
f  That  royal  aid ,  that  queenly  sympathy , 
Still  mindful  of  the  meanest ,  which ,  had  Heav'n 
Repair'd  thy  shatter'd  sense  ,  in  pity  would 
On  the  world's  waste  have  furnish'd  thee  a  port , 
A  temporary  whereabout  to  look 
Around  thee  ,  ere  it  swallow'd  thee  anew, 
When  thou  ,  from  sheer  necessity ,  not  choice , 
With  help ,  nor  hope  ,  nor  means  ,  nor  character , 
Must  in  the  same  abyss  again  have  sunk  , 
But  not  again  to  drift  on  such  a  shore  ! 


ilusion  to  'The  Adelaide  Fiwd,'— a  charity  well  worthy  of  its  name. 


—  11  — 


A  (•kcJeBi  in  jtrwse  of  JDae  ntitliov's  visit  to  Site  masi-Ioonse. 


In  the  early  autumn  of  1835,  as  I  was  one  day  walking  near  the  Lunatic  Asylum 
at  Hanwell ,  I  encountered  my  friend  and  neighbour,  the  provisional  Chaplain  , 
who  had  appointed  with  Dr  Ellis  to  bury  a  patient  at  noon.  He  offered,  if  agreeable, 
to  take  me  in  with  him,  giving  me  to  understand,  however,  that  the  visit  must  be 
short,  as  he  had  a  vestry  to  attend  at  2  o'  clock.  (We  both  resided  at  Little 
Ealing.)  I  caught  at  the  proposal  and  joined  company.  The  moment  that  the 
folding-doors  ( which  open  from  the  Uxbridge  Road )  had  fairly  closed  upon  us , 
I  was  seized,  as  the  expression  is,  with  a  sort  of  ' all-over-ishness ,'  such,  as  with 
a  certain  difference ,  I  had  felt  a  year  or  two  ago ,  on  entering  the  magic  circle 
of  Stonehenge.  A  simple  second  had  wrought  a  change  :  the  very  air  seemed 
altered  even  now!  As  we  walked  towards  the  building,  which,  at  the  time,  was 
nakedly  and  painfully  new,  we  passed  a  bevy  of  demented  beings,  nominally  occupied 
in  laying  out  a  garden ;  but ,  what  with  one  poor  creature  grinning  at  his  spade , 
a  second  ranting  at  his  wheelbarrow,  a  third  discoursing  to  his  rake,  and  a  fourth, 
with  abstracted  and  unconscious  eye ,  poring  on  the  dibble  in  his  hand ,  the  com- 
pletion of  the  alleys  and  the  beds  ( are  they  finished  yet  ? )  struck  me  as  remote ,  to 
say  the  least  of  it.  The  Loudon  for  the  nonce ,  assisted  by  a  string  and  a  lot  of  little 
sticks ,  had  been  trying  to  achieve  a  square ,  but  his  quadrilateral  feat  upon  the 
ground— his  diagram— was  so  decidedly  anti-rectilinear,  that  to  look  at  it  without 
a  smile  was  utterly  impossible.  1  thought  of  Euclid  and  his  definitions :  «  all  other 
« four-sided  figures  besides  these  are  called  trapeziums !»....  A  few  more  paces 
brought  us  to  the  door  of  the  resident  physician.  The  bell  was  answered  by  a 
giggling,  half-witted  girl ,  in  a  bonnet  which  was  turned  the  wrong  side  before.  After 
the  usual  salutations  and  a  word  or  two  with  my  reverend  friend  about  the  funeral, 
Dr  E.  commissioned  a  keeper  to  see  us  through  the  corridor  and  court,  which 
conducted  to  the  cemetery.  As  soon  as  we  had  left  the  parlour,  the  latter  told 
me,  all  I  had  to  do  was  not  to  seem  afraid  of  anything  or  anybody;  «besides,» 
he  added,  (what  sounded  somewhat  at  variance  with  his  advice)  a  they  are  as  quiet 
«as  lambs,  the  whole  kit  o'  them.  The  obstropolus  ones  are  inivisible  :  in  the 
« general  ivay,  ice  never  shoics  them  to  nobody. v....  The  first  object  in  our  hurried 
round  was  the  kitchen, — a  spacious  room,  with  tables,  dressers,  ranges,  coppers, 
plate-racks,  etc.,  to  correspond.  These,  without  a  doubt,  were  sensible  enough, 
—the  fires,  too,  though  anything  but  bright,  had  a  rational  appearance,— but 
as  for  the  scullion  and  the  cook,  with  their  mob-caps  all  awry,  they  looked  like 


—  lf>  — 

opium-eaters,  and  might  each  of  them  have  sat  to  Ben  Jonson  for  his  picture  of 
'  The  Silent  Woman.'  Dear!  dear!  how  very  slow,  how  very  still  they  were!  how 
very  dawdling  and  how  very  dumb!  The  keeper,  with  much  civility,  invited  me 
to  taste  the  soup,  which  accordingly  I  did,  and  a  remarkably  pale  and  thin  potation 
it  was  :  the  cook  (who  had  ladled  me  a  little  out  at  last)  had  forgotten  every  thing 
but  the  water!  The  keeper,  noticing  the  deficit,  shrugged  his  shoulders,  took  her 
gently  by  the  arm ,  and  led  her  to  where  the  lacking  ingredients  were  lying  in  a 
heap.  As  she  recognized  her  error,  she  smiled  faintly,  put  her  fingers  to  her  forehead, 
smiled  again ,  and  gave  her  head  a  melancholy  shake.  The  scullion ,  instead  of 
being— as  any  compos  mentis  scullion  would  have  been— in  a  state  of  culinary 
consternation  at  the  oversight  of  her  principal,  was,  with  one  shoe  off  and  one 
shoe  on,  staring  at  the  coal-box!  Three  or  four  other  females — plate  in  hand — 
kept  mooning  in  and  out  of  the  kitchen ,  and  might ,  at  the  hour  of  their  un- 
somnolence,  have  waited  on  'The  Seven.  Sleepers.'  These  were  the  only  women 
I  beheld.  Hitherto,  though  sufficiently  painful  of  course,  there  had  been  nothing 
to  absolutely  shock  me  :  a  dozen  yards  made  all  the  difference.  The  keeper,  who 
preceded  us ,  opened  a  small  door, 

«  And  wow  /  Tarn  saw  an  unco  sight !  » 

1  felt  as  if  1  were  going  to  have  a  tooth  out ,  and  heartily  wished  myself  away 
again.  In  a  long  gallery,  suspiciously  clean  and  (owing  to  the  mass  of  glaring 
white-wash )  almost  hurtful  to  the  eye ,  some  thirty  or  forty  of  the  male  patients 
—the  majority  of  kindred  pallor  and  meagre  to  the  last  degree,  a  few  in  flannel, 
and  five  or  six  of  them  with  enormous  wicker-guards  upon  the  head — were  scat- 
tered up  on  and  down  upon  the  stones.  From  the  previous  impression  on  my 
mind,  that  lunatics  were  usually  gifted  with  good  health  and  commonly  attained  to 
longevity,  I  was  wholly  unprepared  for  the  sickly  and  appalling  sight  which  argued 
the  reverse.  The  Asylum  I  was  in  was  expressly  for  the  poor,— the  very. poor,— and 
"still  I  had  failed  to  recollect ,  that  spirituous  liquors  ( at  once  their  solace  and  their 
curse)  could  never  be  permitted  there.  The  sudden — not  to  say  the  violent — reaction 
on  the  system  from  the  miss  of  them,  obvious  though  it  was,  was  a  thought  which 
had  perfectly  escaped  me.  And  thus  it  chanced,  that,  shaken  from  the  outset, 
my  nerves  were  unequal  to  a  visit,  ivhich  nobody,  unused  to  it,  must  count  on 
paying  with  impunity.  To  resume.  Our  entrance  was  speedily  remarked  by  a 
portion  of  the  patients ,  and  occasioned ,  as  was  natural ,  a  good  deal  of  additional 
excitement.  Has  the  reader  seen  a  parrot-room?  well ,  then ,  let  him  figure  to  himself 
the  intrusion  of  a  pair  of  cockatoos!  What  a  staring-^what  a  prating— what  a 
whistling— quel  tinlamarre  enfin— there  was!  The  adjoining  corridors^the  cells  of 
is  the  obstropolus  onesn — caught  up  the  cry  immediately,  and  the  yelling  and  the 
howling  so  thoroughly  unhinged  me,  that  the  keeper  thought  it  right  to  reiterate 
his  caution....  « Benjamin!  Benjamin!  have  mercy  on  me!  have  mercy  on  me.')?  was 


—  13  — 

the  harrowing  appeal  of  a  rampant  methodist,  that  came  shuffling  towards  us  on 
his  naked  kuees.  His  osiered  head,  as  closely  shaven  as  could  be,  was  disfigured 
by  a  monstrous  patch  of  taffetas.  His  equipments  were  a  wallet  and  a  staff.  His 
large  black  eyes,  insanely  fixed  upon  the  Chaplain,  were  as  terrible  to  look  at,  as 
his  loud  wild  words  to  listen  to.  My  friend  (whose  face  and  voice  were  familiar 
to  many  of  the  patients , )  addressed  him  in  a  soothing  tone ,  raised  him  kindly 
with  his  hands ,  one  of  which  the  maniac  passionately  kissed ,  and  then  fell  sideways 
in  the  middle  of  the  corridor.  (The  purport  of  the  wicker-guards  was  evident: 
the  reason  of  the  epilepsy  was  a  sphinx..)  He  was  lifted  from  the  pavement  by 
the  keeper  and  a  lathy  fellow-lunatic,  silently  removed,  and  set  against  the  wall. 
In  the  interim  (and  the  Chaplain  shared  the  same  fate  )  I  had  become  the  centre 
of  a  circle,  and  I  found  myself  extremely  ill  at  ease.  «/  want  to  speak  to  you, 
<(  my  man  I »  said  one  of  the  periphery,  seeing  that  the  keeper's  back  was  turned , 
and,  pulling  me  apart,  he  began  some  incoherent  details  of  how  he  had  been 
treated  by  his  family  and  sent  to  that  «  infernal  place. »  Having  pressed  me  hard 
to  <(  call  upon  'em  and  tell'  em  a  bit  of  his  mind  for  him , »  he  informed  me 
in  a  confidential  whisper,  that  his  «  brother  Bob  ivas  a  regular  rip,  and  as  for 
«  3h'ss  Jenny,  why,  she  ivas  no  better  than  she  should  be.  And  now  ye'll  be  sure 
«  and  look' em  up,  won't  ye?))....  I  inclined  a  most  serious  ear  to  everything  he 
said,  and  gravely  asked  for  the  address  :  it  was  Number  3,  Ebenezer  Row,  Camden 
Town.  I  repeated  it  aloud ,  as  if  to  impress  it  on  my  memory,  nodded  him  adieu , 
and  walked  towards  the  Chaplain  and  the  keeper.  Whether  as  a  movement  of 
gratitude,  whether  as  a  piece  of  mockery,  the  injured  individual  hurried  after  me, 
— to  snap  his  fingers  in  my  face,  and  then,  with  a  hop-skip-aud-a-jump,  away 
he  went!  Having  shirked,  as  I  best  could,  (my  friend  was  more  au  fait  at  it  than 
I )  the  stealthy  importunities  of  four  or  five  more  of  them ,  my  attention  was  arrested 
by  a  crazy  couple  on  a  bench.  The  one,  about  thirty  years  of  age,  in  a  straight 
jacket ,  was  outsetting  the  constraint  of  his  arms  by  the  furious  contortion  of  his 
features  and  the  flashes  of  an  unforgiving  eye ;  the  other— a  hopeless  old  madman 
but  as  placid  as  could  be,— was  playing  scratch-cradle!  Exactly  opposite,  sat  a 
mealy-faced  patient,  with  a  kind  of  brigand-hat  on,  and  the  left  leg  of  his  trowsers 
(I  wondered  wherefore)  rolled  carefully  above  the  knee.  His  gaze  was  fastened  on  a 
feather  at  his  foot  :  he  rubbed  his  hands  from  time  to  time,  cracked  his  finger- 
joints,  chuckled  at  his  own  thoughts,  (what  could  they  have  been?  the  feather?) 
and  made  more  funny  faces  in  a  minute  than  Munden  in  the  course  of  a  whole 
farce.  His  nearest  neighbour,  like  a  peach-tree  newly  trained,  was  sticking  to  the 
wall.  Did  he  fancy  himself  a  target , — a  something  to  be  shot  at, — the  son  of  William 
Tell?  perhaps  he  did.  a  What,  in  the  name  of  fortune, »  I  inquired,  pointing  to 
a  gestic  figure  in  front  of  us,  iris  yonder  man  about?))....  uOh!  Sir!))  replied 
the  keeper,  a  he's  an  out-and-out  rum'un,  he  is  :  he  fancies  his-self  a  telegraph!)) 
The  visionary — the  monomaniac— or  whatever  else  ye  please  to  call  him— was,  with 


—  14  — 

a  face  of  immense  importance ,  standing  ( like  Mercury )  on  one  leg ;  the  other,  si- 
multaneously with  his  arms,  was  in  full  play.  His  hands,  as  unintelligible  as  a  tomb 
of  Nineveh,— aye,  even  to  the  little  fingers, — were  busily  at  work  as  well!  It  was 
really  very  droll.  «/  must  go  and  speak  to  him,»  said  1  :  « I'd  give  the  world 
«  to  know  the  news. — Oh !  Sir ! »  replied  the  keeper  again ,  « it  t'ant  no  use  asking 
uhim  no  questions  :  ye  may  as  well  speak  to  a  post.  Leave  him  alone  a  bit,  and 
«  ye'll  see  him  make  a  bolt  of  it  presently. »  1  watched  the  pantomime  a  minute 
more,  and,  sure  enough,  he  bolted  like  a  rabbit  from  a  bush.  At  the  distance 
of  forty  feet  or  so,  he  stopped  abruptly  short,  and,  resuming  his  telegraphic  attitudes, 
forwarded  his  own  dispatch!  Like  Rousseau  and  Richardson  ,  he  corresponded  with 
himself !  And  so  he  would  persist  till  utterly  exhausted ,  and  then ,  for  days  together, 
would  be  as  motionless  as  stone!  Sur  ces  entrefaites ,  (as  the  French  express  it) 
how  many  of  the  patients  in  the  corridor  were  perfectly  unconscious  of  what  was 
going  on!  Proof  against  excitement  in  themselves,  and  deaf  and  blind  to  it  in 
others,  they  remained  as  passive  as  at  first, — as  passive  and  impassible.  As  they  stood 
or  sat,  ye  would  have  likened  them  to  statues;  as  they  moved  about,  to  somnambulists ! 
Their  negative  existence— their  death-in-life — was  a  sleep — a  dream— a  stupor — a  deep 
deep  trance.  Their  phrenzy  was  peculiar;  their  hallucination  was  a  property.  To  them 
«  the  moping  ideot  and  the  madman  gay  »  were  nothing — absolutely  naught— inanities 
— nonentities!  Absorbedly  distinct  from  both,  they  had  no  communication  with  either, 
— none  with  one  another.  Every  visionist  was  his  own  sphere— his  own  secluded 
world — his  own  Limbo — his  own  Hades — his  own  'Valley  of  the  Shadow  of  Death!' 
Like  Vathek  in  «.The  Hall  of  Eblis,)>  when  the  fatal  hour  was  come  and  the  final 
judgement  was  pronounced  against  him,  each  particular  soul  was  strictly  separate 
— rigidly  apart— all  acquaintance  dead — all  ties  broken— in  the  midst  of  company 
uncompanionable — smileless — wordless  — taciturnly  sad  and  gloomily  alone.  A  pair 
of  these  abstracted  beings,  the  sight  of  whom  affected  me  to  tears,  and  whose  vivid 
recollection  is  still  a  pain  to  me,  were  relieved  by  a  ludicrous  set-off,  which  nothing 
but  a  mad-house  could  supply.  A  slim ,  weak-faced  young  fellow— just  the  sort 
of  stripling  to  be  stage-struck— -was ,  with  a  passable  good  voice  and  histrionic 
gesture,  but  with  consummate  incongruity  of  course,  enacting  that  gallant  and 
gallant  hero ,  Captain  Macheath ,  and  smirking  and  singing ,  now  to  his  imaginary 
Polly  Peachum,  now  to  his  imaginary  Lucy  Lockit,  a  sample  of  uThe  Beggar's  Opera: » 

«  How  happy  could  I  be  with  either, 

«  Were  other  dear  charmer  away, 
«  Rut,  when  ye  thus  teaze  me  together, 

«  To  neither  a  word  will  I  say 

«  Rut  tol-de-rol-lol !  tol-de-rol-lol ! 
<c  Tol-de-rol!  tol-de-rol!  tol-de-rol-lol!  » 

And  then,  unwitting  fool!  he  danced  a  repetition  of  the  chorus!    The  winding- 


—  15  — 

sheeted  drunkard,  in  ^Frightened  to  death, »  is  favored  with  as  much  notice  by 
the  people  he  addresses,  as  Hie  «poor  player»  was  by  the  somnambulists  in  question. 
They  never  even  knew  the  Captain  ivas  there !  The  object  I  encountered  next  was 
a  lacrymose  extravagance — a  crazy  Heraclitus— who ,  with  a  pocket-handkerchief 
as  full  of  holes  as  Billy  Lackaday's,  was  blubbering  away  like  a  petticoated  boy, 
that  has  lost  the  penny-whistle  or  the  whip ,  which  his  « granny  was  so  good  as 
« to  buy  him  at  the  fair. »  As  I  gazed  upon  his  fatuous  affliction ,  I  bethought  me  of 
a  cretin  in  the  canton  of  Geneva.  Instigated ,  I  suppose ,  by  curiosity,  I  peeped 
into  a  cell  on  the  right  hand ,  and  near  the  exit  of  the  corridor.  Detecting  nobody, 
I  walked  (stupidly  enough)  to  the  end  of  the  little  room,  and  then,  as  a  not  unnatural 
sequitur,  turned  round  to  walk  back  again.  In  a  shady  corner  of  it ,  on  a  sted 
behind  the  door  (a  position  which  accounts  for  my  non-observance  of  him  in  the 
first  instance , )  propped  upon  a  pillow,  lay  a  scowling  invalid ,  most  unmistakeably 
awake.  His  insanity  was  obvious,  and,  as  he  stared  or,  rather,  glared  at  me,  my 
feet  were  rooted  to  the  spot.  A  bird  at  a  basilisk,  or  Robinson  Crusoe  at  the 
« two  broad  shining  eyes  of  some  creature,  whether  devil  or  man,  which  twinkled 
«  like  two  stars,  the  dim  light  from  the  cave's  mouth  shining  directly  in  and  making 
« the  reflection , »  will  convey  the  best  idea  of  how  I  must  have  looked ,  and  of 
how  I  must  have  felt.  The  dumb-show,  no  doubt ,  would  have  lasted  longer  than 
it  did,  had  not  the  recumbent  figure ,  with  a  grincing  grin ,  made  an  effort  to 
get  up ,  and  then  ,  with  one  jump,  I  bounded  to  the  door  and  rushed  into  the 
gallery.  But  my  nerves  alas!  were  doomed  to  undergo  another  and  severer  test. 
As  I  joined  the  Chaplain,  (the  keeper,  for  the  moment,  was  trying  to  pacify  a 
poor  wretch,  that,  literally,  « quarrelled  with  a  straiv,»)  he  was  listening,  with 
his  wonted  coolness ,  to  one  of  two  «  new  arrivals , »  ( from  the  court  hard  by, ) 
who ,  in  common  with  so  many  more ,  was ,  attempting ,  in  a  whisper,  to  turn 
him  to  account.  The  second  lunatic,— with  the  sanguinest  complexion  and  the 
very  wildest  eyes  I  ever  witnessed,— the  instant  he  discovered  mc,  decided  on 
forming  my  acquaintance,— a  compliment  to  my  merits,  which  I,  for  my  part, 
was  equally  anxious  to  decline.  Diminutive  and  spare,  I  endeavoured  to  screen 
myself  from  observation— to  take  refuge  in  fact— behind  the  portly  figure  of  my 
friend.  The  ruse ,  of  course ,  was  too  shallow  to  succeed ,  and ,  a  moment  after, 
the  bright  grey  eyes  of  madness  were  upon  me !  I  dodged  again— meme  chose ! 
— again— again— again— meme  chose! — meme  chose! — tnSme  chose! — At  every  shift 
I  made  (and  I  made  twenty  at  the  least)  the  twin  lamps  were  certain  to  be  flaring 
in  my  face !  1  had  never  had  such  a  game  of  hide-and-seek  before.  At  last , 
excited  to  the  * n'h,  (how  absurdly  I  had  acted  to  be  sure!)  he  caught  me  by  the 
wrist,  and  held  me  like  Abraham  Cann!    The  sequel  (thank  God!)  was  harmless 


See  any  work  on  Algebra  for  'The  Binomial  Theorem,'  where  the  n'h  is  the  ne  plus  ultra  of 
Hie  «  powers.  » 


—  16  — 

enough ,  and  glad  I  was ,  as  the  saying  is ,  Ho  get  out  of  it  so  cheap. '  With  a 
■volubility  of  tongue,  impossible  to  follow  or  describe,  he  gave  me  to  understand 
(what  I  scarcely  should  have  guessed,)  that  he  was  his  Grace  the  Duke  of  Buckingham, 
most  infamously  put  in  there,  and  that,  unless  I  moved  heaven  and  earth  to  procure 
his  liberation,  I  should  hear  from  him  again  in  a  way  I  should  'nt  like,  a  And 
a?ww»  (he  ended)  a  you  may  go!»  And  go  1  did,  with  such  a  bang  against 
the  wall,  as  not  only  knocked  my  hat  off,  but  materially  impaired  my  new  frock- 
coat  by  its  violent  collision  with  the  whitewash !  Unluckily  for  the  grandeur  of 
his  Grace,  the  keeper,  who  had  seen  him  in  his  tantrums,  hurried  up,  and,  after 
having  eyed  him  a  la  Carter  and  Van  Amburgh ,  ( the  lion-tamers ! )  took  him  by 
the  arm,  walked  him  off,  and  lodged  him  in  his  cell.  «  So  much  for  Buckingham! '».. . 
We  were  now  in  the  court-yard,  which,  at  the  time,  contained  but  two  individuals. 
The  first — a  stout-built  man  of  middle-age,  with,  I  should  have  deemed,  a  constant 
brisk  circulation  of  blood, — was,  on  as  mild  a  day  as  autumn  ever  knew,  blowing 
his  finger-nails  and  stamping  his  feet  upon  the  ground,  or  swinging  his  arms  and 
slapping  his  hands— slap,  slap,  slap,— like  a  sailor  in  the  arctic  seas.  His  mind 
(and  by  implication  his  body)  was  clearly  in  «the  regions  of  thick-ribbed  ice.» 
The  second— of  exiguous  dimensions  and  proportionately  thin,  the  colour  of  a  turnip 
bitten  by  the  frost ,  with  a  starveling  of  a  coat  and  a  pair  of  little  trowsers  a  la 
Smike,  a  hat  to  correspond  with  his  gear  and  a  brim  to  correspond  with  his  hat, 
— absurd  to  a  degree — adopting  the  ridiculous  « allure »  of  a  piebald  charger  at 
Franconi's,  in  some  imposing  scene  of  « Tamerlane »  or  «Ghe?igis-Khan,»  ever 
moving  but  never  getting  on,   smirking  and  smiling  and  bobbing  and  bowing, 

— fancied  himself  (could  madness  go  beyond?)  no  other  than  !  and  told 

us ,  with  an  air  of  ineffable  complacence ,  that  he  was  walking  in  the  garden  of 
Gethsemane— ato  stretch  his  legsln  The  fanatic  appeared  (I  suspect  he  was)  a  jobbing 
tailor  gone  distraught.  As  the  keeper's  escort  was  no  longer  requisite,  he  bade 
us  a  good  morning  and  re-entered  the  gallery.  A  minute  afterwards,  the  dinner- 
bell  rang,  and  the  figures  began  to  move  away.  He  managed  them  like  sheep,  and 
the  corridor  was  gradually  cleared.  I  was  heartily  glad  of  it,  for  my  nerves  were 
shaken  all  to  pieces,  and  I  had  no  wish  to  encounter  its  occupants  again.  My 
friend  (as  well  as  I  can  recollect)  drew  a  key  from  his  pocket,  unlocked  a  com- 
municating door,  and  we  found  ourselves  in  a  fallow-field.  We  proceeded  to  the 
further  end  of  it,  where  a  couple  of  men,  with  a  coffin  on  a  truck,  were  waiting 
for  the  Chaplain,  under  a  high  wall  of  the  edifice.  It  was  the  cemetery — that 
melancholy  spot.  The  grave,  with  water  in  it,  was  one  of  many  more.  There 
were  no  tomb-stones ,— no  names, — nothing  to  designate  the  dead, — only  turfiess 
hillocks , — unosiered  mounds , — heaps  of  pallid  clay.  The  departed  ,  in  the  present 
instance ;  was  a  female  pauper  :  the  couple,  who  had  brought  her  thither,  were 
patients  like  herself.  They  were  harmless  things,— inoffensive  quite,— and  not  entirely 
ignorant  of  what  was  going  on,  since,  nearly  unassisted,  they  committed,  with 


decency  and  care,  the  body  of  their  fellow-creature  to  the  earth.  But  their  wits 
were  evidently  wrong,  seeing  that  the  one  of  them,  during  the  impressive  reading 
of  my  friend,  kept  swaying  to-and-fro  like  the  balance  of  a  clock,  whilst  the  other, 
leaning  on  his  shovel,  was  standing  on  the  brink  of  the  grave,  and  staring,  with 
all  his  might,  at  the  coffin  he  had  helped,  a  moment  back,  to  lower  with  his  own 
hands!  Strangely  enough,  as  soon  as  the  burial-service  had  commenced,  a  lark 
(a  happy  omen  let  us  hope!)  shot  upwards  in  the  azure  air,  and  presently  was 
singing  over-head.  The  service  and  the  carol  both  went  on.  The  feathered  warbler 
(did  she  typify  the  soul?)  kept  flying  up  and  up  ....  «  Ashes  to  ashes!  dust  to  ditst!» 
As  well  as  my  emotion  would  allow,  I  repeated  the  affecting  words,  and,  suiting 
the  action  thereunto,  stooped  down,  and  threw  a  little  mould  upon  the  coffiu. 
As  the  modicum  of  earth— the  emblematic  tribute  of  mortality — pattered  on  the 
lid ,  the  lark  sang  louder  than  before.  The  carol  had  become  a  hymn.  It  was 
infinitely  striking !  The  touching  intonation  of  the  human  voice ,  the  melting  music 
of  the  mounting  bird,  the  bright  sun,  the  blue  sky,  the  lunatic  and  sane,  the 
sick  and  whole,  together  at  the  grave, — the  indices  of  life  and  death,  I  say,  with 
all  the  heavy  hazards  of  the  one ,  and  all  the  solemn  sureness  of  the  other,  appealing 
to  my  heart,  it  answered  to  the  mournful  challenge,  and  I  turned  away  my  face 
and  wept.  A  firmer  mind,  exposed  to  such  a  test,  might  have  yielded  to  the  trial, 
and  been  softened  into  tears.  For  had  I  not  beheld ,  in  a  many-acred  hospital , 
the  saddest  aberration  of  the  brain?  the  worst  humiliation  of  the  intellect?  madness, 
imbecility!  Had  I  not  beheld,  albeit  in  a  modified  degree,  whether  from  accident, 
misfortune,  passion,  weakness,  or  intemperance,  the  terrible  abasement  of  my 
brother-man  ?  the  image  of  the  Maker  moving  in  a  trance  ?  ranting  ,  crawling , 
lying  on  the  naked  stones  ?  mouthing  ,  grinning  ,  grincing  at  the  empty  air  ? 
practising,  in  hoary-headed  age,  the  pastime  of  the  child?  chuckling  at  a  feather? 
imitating  wood  ?  insulting  misery  with  song  and  dance ,  its  mirth ,  if  possible , 
more  miserable  still  ?  shedding  ideotic  tears  ?  desecrating  holiness  ?  assisting  , 
with  a  half-unconscious  help ,  to  lower  and  inter  a  sister  in  calamity — a  victim 
of  the  pit — the  debitum  of  death— a  poor  forerunner  to  the  grave?    I  had!  I  had! 

When  the  funeral  was  finished,  and  the  crazy  couple,  at  a  gesture  of  the 

Chaplain,  began  to  shovel  in  the  clay  and  to  cover  up  the  dead,  we  silently  and 
slowly  returned  upon  our  steps.  The  court  was  tenantless.  In  the  gallery  was 
no  one  but  the  patient  in  a  straight-jacket.  His  chin  was  resting  on  his  chest : 
he  was  uneasily  asleep.  The  servant  met  us  in  the  hall  and  let  us  out, — the 
giggling,  half-witted  girl,  of  whom  I  spoke  above,  with  her  bonnet  turned  the 
wrong  side  before.  The  gardening-group,  in  common  with  the  rest  that  we  had 
seen,  were  gone  to  dinner.  But  the  alleys,  though  deserted,  were  anything  but  still, 
since,  as  we  proceeded  to  where  we  had  entered  the  building,  there  issued  from 
the  nearest  cells  a  horrid  oath  of  fury  or  of  pain,  a  harrowing  hya>na  laugh,  a 
tremulous  loud  cry,  like  the  hooting  of  an  owl,  and  the  burden  of  a  seaman's  song, 


—  18  — 

— « In  the  bay  of  Biscay,  oh! »....  We  parted  on  the  Uxbridge  Road,— my  friend  and 
1 , — one  to  attend  his  Vestry,  and  the  other  to  regain  his  home  by  the  way  of 
Osterley  Park,  in  a  solitary  lane  of  which  I  gave  a  freer  vent  to  my  feelings,  and 
prayed  from  my  inmost  soul  to  the  Source  of  all  intelligence — the  Fountain  of  all 
light — to  continue  me,  unshrunk,  the  measure  He  had  meted  me,  te  guide  me 
and  to  guard  me,  so  that,  from  vice  or  fault,  from  folly  or  mischance,  I  might 
neither  be  a  maniac  nor  a  fool,  neither  be  possessed  with  a  demon  in  the  brain, 
nor,  like  the  tree ,  prophetically  pointed  at  by  Swift ,  «  wither  a-top ! » 

"  ■ 


b 


—  "  "  fj 


■ 

7 


Ba@TT18   T©   THI    ^©0 


oj**> 


(1) — «  The  sailor,  cast  upon  a  desart  shore, 

«  Dew  for  his  drink ,  and  berries  for  his  food , 
«  The  earth  his  hammock,  curtain' d  by  the  copse, 
(i  Whose  ragged  bushes  but  let  in  the  wind, 
«  Some  solace  gathers  for  his  misery 
«  In  hardship  at  his  side.  » 
«  A  little  after  noon  I  found  the  sea  very  calm ,  and  the  tide  ebbed  so  far  out,  that  I 
could  come  within  a  quarter  of  a  mile  of  the  ship ;  and  here  I  found  a  fresh  renewing 
of  my  grief,  for  I  saw  evidently,  that,  if  we  had  kept  on  board,  we  had  been  all 
safe ,  that  is  to  say,  we  had  all  got  safe  on  shore ,  and  I  had  not  been  so  miserable 
as  to  be  left  entirely  destitute  of  all  comfort  and  company,  as  1  now  was  :  this  forced 

tears  from  my  eyes  again.  » «  Such  were  these  earnest  wishings , 

that  but  one  man  had  been  saved !  0  that  it  had  been  but  one !  I  believe  I  repeated 
the  words ,  0  that  it  had  been  but  one !  a  thousand  times ;  and  my  desires  were  so 
moved  by  it,  that,  when  I  spoke  the  words,  my  hands  would  clinch  together,  and  my 
fingers  press  the  palms  of  my  hands ,  that,  if  I  had  had.  any  soft  thing  in  my  hand .  it 
would  have  crushed  it  involuntarily ;  and  my  teeth  in  my  head  would  strike  together, 
and  set  against  one  another  so  strong,  that  for  some  time  I  could  not  part  them  again.  » 

Robinson  Crusoe. 

(2) —  .;•....- «  The  teidoiv,  whom 

«  The  whelming  wave  hath  made  such ,  in  her  woe 

«  Hies  to  some  sister  in  calamity 

«  To  wail  together  o'er  the  cruel  surge 

«  And  savage  flood.  » 

A  few  months  after  the  well-known  fatal  accident  off  the  coast  of  Italy,  I  met  at 
the  house  of  Godwin,  the  novelist,  his  daughter,  Mrs  Shelley.  Whilst  1  was  paying 
my  respects  to  M"  G. ,  Mrs  Williams,  whose  husband  had  been  drowned  with  the 
poet,  came  in,  attired  in  deep  mourning.  The  meeting  of  the  two  widows,  though 
not  the  first  between  them ,  was  extremely  triste.  To  spare  it  the  interruption  of 
a  stranger,  I  arose  and  took  my  leave. 

(3)- «  The  childless  mother  seeks 

«  Some  childless  mother's  bosom ,  ivhere  to  lay 
«  Her  desolate  head,  her  heavy  loss  compare, 
«  Ask  sigh  for  sigh,  and  answer  sob  for  sob.  » 
Of  a  scene  of  this  kind  ,  too ,  was  I  once  a  witness.   A  Mr  and  Mr'  Neal ,  in  whose 


—  20  — 

pretty  cottage ,  at  the  back  of  Emmanuel  College ,  Cambridge ,  I  was  a  lodger  in  1823 , 
had  recently  lost  their  only  child,  a  fine  little  girl  of  4  years  old,  who,  as  I  shall 
ever  recollect ,  in  the  height  of  summer  and  of  fever  higher  still ,  was  three  days 
and  three  nights  dying  hard,  very  very  hard!  One  Sunday  afternoon,  on  my  returning 
from  a  stroll ,  the  door  was  opened  to  me  by  Mrs  Neal ,  bathed  in  tears ,  with  another 
weeping  mother  in  the  passage,  who",  it  seemed,  had  just  sustained  a  similar 
bereavement. 

(4)— «  Till  vacancy  grew  weary  of  itself ', 

«  And  su'd  for  occupation ,  ivhen  old  habit 

«  Stood  in  the  stead  of  reason ,  as  the  hand 

«  Mechanically  pli'd  its  former  task, 

(c  Doing  its  work  like  any  other  wheel.  » 
Some  three  or  four  weeks  after  my  hurried  visit  to  the  Asylum,  having  accompanied 
my  reverend  friend  to  see  the  performance  of  evening  service  in  the  Chapel ,  I  took , 
when  it  was  over,  the  opportunity  of  a  little  chat  with  Dr  Ellis.  Among  other 
interesting  facts,  he  told  me  that  employment  was  often  asked  for  by  the  patients 
themselves  and  invariably  accorded ,  as  one  of  the  most  salutary  remedies.  «  If 
«tbe  work  is  badly  done,»  he  said,  «what  signifies?  we  either  let  it  go  or  have 
<i  it  done  again  by  a  regular  hand.     The  prime  object  is  to  amuse  the  poor  things. » 

(5) — ((  Perchance  'twas  Jealousy, 

«  Whose  piercing  fang  infus'd  into  thy  veins 
«  The  venom  of  its  bite ,  till ,  stung  to  wrath , 
«  Thou  ragedst  like  a  storm,  whose  lightnings  ivere 
«   Worthy  Medea ,  when  tlte  flash  of  hell 
k  Shot  from  her  eyes ,  far  brighter  than  the  steel , 
<c  That  sore  aveng'd  upon  their  butcher'd  babes 
v.  The  husband's  insult  to  a  slighted,  wife-  » 
Medea ,  a  violent  character  and  stained  with  many  crimes ,  ( the  Lucretia  Borgia 
of  antiquity!)  was  divorced  by  Jason  for  Glauce.  (See  *  Euripides's  Play,  Ovid's 
Metamorphoses,  and  Apollonius's  Epic.)  By  her  pair  of  dragons,  perhaps,  (for  classic 
fable  is  half  allegory)  we  must  understand  her  temper  and  her  f  tongue- 

In  mercy,  however,  to  the  memory  of  Medea ,  let  us  bear  in  mind ,  that  the  Greek  dramatist  is 
said  to  have  been  bribed  by  the  Corinthians  with  a  sum  of  5  talents  ( 968  L.  15  5.  )  to  write  a  Play, 
which ,  throwing  the  stigma  of  it  on  the  mother,  'should  exonerate  them  from  the  death  of  Jason's 
children,  Pheres  and  Mermerus....  The  exquisite  translations — marvellous  indeed  in  a  youth  of  nineteen 
— ( for  they  were  a  college  exercise )  of  some  of  the  choruses  in  Euripides's  Tragedy  were  the  origin 
and  ground-work  of  Campbell's  lyric  fame. 

i  To  quit  the  academic  stilts.    In  a  far  county  of  England ,  an  aged  matron  ,  whose  «  capital  family- 
«  receipts  »  had  procured  her  the  reputation  of  a  witch ,  was  applied  to  by  a  young  woman ,  newly 


—  21  — 

(6)— «  Perchance  it  was  Remorse,  that  thou,  the  child 
(c  Of  humble  honesty,  shouldst  e'er  have  led 
<c  Disgrace  unto  its  hearth,  and  thus  have  cloth' d 
((  A  father's  limbs  with  sackcloth,  and  have  strew 'd 
«  A  mother's  head  with  ashes ,  and  brought  down 
«  Their  last  gr-ey  gairs  ivith  sorrow  to  the  grave. —  » 

«  David  Deans  had  been  alarmed  at  the  state  of  health  in  which  his  daughter  had 
returned  to  her  paternal  residence;  but  Jeanie  had  contrived  to  divert  him  from 
particular  and  specific  enquiry.  It  was,  therefore,  like  a  clap  of  thunder  to  the 
poor  old  man,  when,  just  as  the  hour  of  noon  had  brought  the  visit  of  the  Laird 
of  Dumbiedikes  as  usual,  other  and  sterner,  as  well  as  most  unexpected  guests 
arrived  at  the  cottage  of  St  Leonard's.  These  were  the  officers  of  justice,  with  a 
warrant  of  justiciary  to  search  for  and  apprehend  Euphemia,  or  Effie,  Deans,  accused 
of  the  crime  of  child-murder.  The  stunning  weight  of  a  blow  so  totally  unexpected 
bore  down  the  old  man,  who  had  in  his  early  youth  resisted  the  brow  of  military 
and  civil  tyranny,  though  backed  with  swords  and  guns,  tortures  and  gibbets.     lie 

fell  extended  and  senseless  upon  his  own  hearth.  » «  The  old  man 

had  now  raised  himself  from  the  ground ,  and ,  looking  about  him  as  if  he  missed 
something,  seemed  gradually  to  recover  the  sense  of  his  wretchedness.  'Where,' 
he  said ,  with  a  voice  that  made  the  roof  ring ,  '  where  is  the  vile  harlot ,  that  has 
disgraced  the  blood  of  an  honest  man? — Where  is  she,  that  has  no  place  among 
us,  but  has  come  foul  with  her  sins,  like  the  Evil  One,  among  the  children  of  God.' 
— Where  is  she,  Jeanie? — Bring  her  before  me,  that  I  may  kill  her  with  a  word 
and  a  look ! '  » «  Jeanie,  iiqw  in  some  degree  restored  to  the  power 


married,  for  a  cbarrn  to  win  her  back  the  affections  of  her  husband  :  «John>*  (as  she  said  with  tears) 
«  was  quite  another  man  from  what  he  was  at  first. »  After  a  few  questions,  the  former  bade  her,  for 
the  space  of  a  month ,  always  have  at  hand  a  cup  of  water,  fetched  from  a  certain  spring  in  the 
adjoining  wood,  «and  be  sure,»  (she  added)  «as  soon  as  ever  John  begins  to  naggle,  as  you  call  it, 
«  to  take  a  little  of  it  in  your  mouth ,  and  keep  it  there  for  ten  minutes ,  as  near  as  you  can  guess.  » 
And  then , 

«  With  antique  phrases  for  pretence 

«  And  rambling  rhymes  without  a  word  of  sense ,  » 

(Ovid.) 
she  gave  her  some  withered  elder-leaves  to  throw  into  the  source.  Before  the  expiration  of  the  month, 
the  applicant  renewed  her  visit  to  the  hut.  «Well,  my  dear»  said  the  old  lady,  «and  how  are  matters 
«  going  on  at  home?  n  0OI1!  <>  replied  the  smiling  and  the  thankful  wife,  "John  and  I  are  so  comfor- 
«  table  again !  And  only  think  of  that  wonderful  fountain  in  the  wood !  »  «  The  fountain  in  the  wood . 
«  my  dear!  »  rejoined  the  dame,  «  was  nothing  but  a  make-believe.  One  word  leads  lo  another,  ana 
«  we  women  arc  loo  fond  of  having  the  last.  With  the  water  in  your  mouth ,  you  were  sure  to 
«  — hold  your  tongue!  »....  How  many  bickerings  in  married  life,  how  much  of  conjugal  unhappiness 
would  cease ,  by  the  simple  recollection  of  the  witch's  spell ! 


—  22  — 

of  thought ,  joined  in  the  same  request.  The  next  day  found  the  father  and  daughter 
still  in  the  depth  of  affliction  ,  hut  the  father  sternly  supporting  his  load  of  ill  through 
a  proud  sense  of  religious  duty,  and  the  daughter  anxiously  suppressing  her  own 
feelings  to  avoid  again  awakening  his.    Thus  was  it  with  the  afflicted  family. »  .  . 

«  Deans  raised  the  Bible  with  his  left  hand ,  so  as  partly  to  screen  his  face , 

and ,  putting  back  his  right  as  far  as  he  could ,  held  it  toward  Butler  in  that  position , 
at  the  same  time  turning  his  body  from  him,  as  if  to  prevent  his  seeing  the  working 
of  his  countenance.  Butler  clasped  the  extended  hand,  which  had  supported  his  orphan 
infancy,  wept  over  it,  and  in  vain  endeavoured  to  say  more  than  the  words — 'God 
comfort  you— God  comfort  you ! '  » 

The  Heart  of  Mid-Lolhian. — Scott. 

«'You  are  right,  my  boy,'  cried  his  mother,  'Old  England  is  the  only  place  in 
the  Avorld  for,  husbands  to  get  wives.' — 'And  for  wives  to  manage  their  husbands,' 
interrupted  I.  'It  is  a  proverb  abroad,  that,  if  a  bridge  were  built  across  the  sea, 
all  the  ladies  of  the  Continent  would  come  over  to  take  pattern  from  ours;  for  there 
are  no  such  wives  in  Europe  as  our  own.  But  let  us  have  one  bottle  more .  Deborah , 
my  life!  and,  Moses,  give  us  a  good  song.  What  thanks  do  we  not  owe  to  heaven 
for  thus  bestowing  tranquillity,  health ,  and  competence.  I  think  myself  happier 
now  than  the  greatest  monarch  upon  earth.  He  has  no  such  fireside,  nor  such 
pleasant  faces  about  it.  Yes ,  Deborah ,  we  are  now  growing  old ;  but  the  evening 
of  our  life  is  likely  to  be  happy.  We  are  descended  from  ancestors  that  knew  no 
stain,  and  we  shall  leave  a  good  and  virtuous  race  of  children  behind  us.  While 
we  live,  they  will  be  our  support  and  our  pleasure  here,  and  when  we  die,  they 
will  transmit  onr  honour  untainted  to  posterity.  Come,  my  son,  we  wait  for. a 
song  :  let  us  have  a  chorus.  But  where  is  my  darling  Olivia?  That  little  cherub's 
voice  is  always  sweetest  in  the  concert.' — Just  as  I  spoke,  Dick  came  running  in, 
'  0  papa!  she  is  gone  from  us!  she  is  gone  from  us!  she  is  gone  from  us!  my 
sister  Livy  is  gone  from  .us  for  ever.' — 'Gone,  child!'— 'Yes ,  she  is  gone  off  with 
two  gentlemen  in  a  postchaise;  and  one  of  them  kissed  her  and  said  he  would 
die  for  her;  and  she  cried  very  much,  and  was  for  coming  back;  but  he  persuaded 
her  again,  and  she  went  into  the  chaise,  and  said,  '0,  what  will  my' poor  papa 
do  when  he  knows  I  am  undone ! ' — '  Now  then ,'  cried  I ,  'my  children ,  go  and 
be  miserable,  for  we  shall  never  enjoy  one  hour  more.  And  0  may  heaven's  ever- 
lasting fury  light  upon  him  and  his ! — thus  to  rob  me  of  my  child !  And  sure  it 
will ,  for  taking  back  my  sweet  innocent  that  I  was  leading  up  to  Heaven.  Such 
sincerity  as  my  child,  was  possessed  of!  but  all  our  earthly  happiness  is  now  over! 
Go,  my  children,  go,  and  be  miserable  and  infamous;  for  my  heart  is  broken 

within  me!'» «  You  may  remember,  my  love,  how  good  she  was, 

and  how  charming ;  till  this  vile  moment ,  all  her  care  was  to  make  us  happy.  Had 
she  but  died!— But  she  is  gone,  the  honour  of  our  family  is  contaminated,  and  I 
must  look  out  for  happiness  in  other  worlds  than  here.    But,  my  child,  you  saw 


—  23  — 

them  go  off :  perhaps  he  forced  her  away.  If  he  forced  her,  she  may  yet  be  innocent.' 
— 'Ah  no,  Sir,'  cried  the  child;  'he  only  kissed  her,  and  called  her  his  angel;  and  she 
wept  very  much ,  and  leaned  upon  his  arm ,  and  they  drove  off  very  fast.' — '  She's  an 
ungrateful  creature ,'  cried  my  wife ,  who  could  scarce  speak  for  weeping,  '  to  use  us 
thus.  She  never  had  the  least  constraint  put  upon  her  affections.  The  vile  strumpet 
has  basely  deserted  her  parents  witbout  any  provocation,  thus  to  bring  your  gray  hairs 
to  the  grave ,  and  I  must  shortly  follow.' » 

The  Ticar  of  Wakefield.— Goldsmith. 
Let  us  soften  the  picture  a  little. 

«  When  the  fears  of  my  family  had  subsided,  curiosity  to  know  the  cause  of  my  long 
stay  began  to  take  place;  having  therefore  informed  them  of  every  particular,  1  pro- 
ceeded to  prepare  them  for  the.  reception  of  our  lost  one;  and,  though  we  had  nothing 
but  wretchedness  now  to.  impart,  I  was  willing  to  procure  her  a  welcome  to  what  we 
had.  This  task  would  have  been  more  difficult,  but  for  our  own  recent  calamity,  which 
had  humbled  my  wife's  pride ,  and  blunted,  it  by  more  poignant  afflictions.  Being 
unable  to  go  for  my  poor  child  myself,  as  my  arm  grew  very  painful ,  I  sent  my  son 
and  daughter,  who  soon  returned,  supporting  the  wretched  delinquent,  who  had  not 
the  courage  to  look  up  at  her  mother,  whom  no  instructions  of  mine  could  persuade  to 
a  perfect  reconciliation ,  for  women  have  a  much  stronger  sense  of  female  error  than 
men.  'Ah,  madam,'  cried  her  mother,  '  this  is  but  a  poor  place  you  are  come  to,  after 
so  much  finery.  My  daughter  Sophy  and  I  can  afford  but  little  entertainment  to  persons 
who  have  kept  company  only  with  people  of  distinction.  Yes,  Miss  Livy,  your  poor 
father  and  I  have  suffered  very  much  of  late;  but  I  hope  Heaven  will  forgive  you.' 
— During  this  reception ,  the  unhappy  victim  stood  pale  and  trembling,  unable  to  weep 
or  to  reply  :  but  I  could  not  continue  a  silent  spectator  of  her  distress;  wher-efore , 
assuming  a  degree  of  severity  in  my  voice  and  manner,  which  was  ever  followed  with 
instant  submission ,  '  I  entreat ,  woman ,  that  my  words  may  be  now  marked  once  for 
all  :  I  have  here  brought  you  back  a  poor  deluded  wanderer;  her  return  to  duty 
demands  the  revival  of  our  tenderness.  The  real  hardships  of  life  are  now  coming  fast 
upon  us;  let  us  not,  therefore,  increase  them  by  dissension  among. each  other.  If  we 
live  harmoniously  together,  we  may  yet  be  contented,  as  there  are  enough  of  us  to  shut 
out  the  censuring  world,  and  keep  each  other  in  countenance.  The  kindness  of  heaven 
is  promised  to  the  penitent,  and  let  ours  he  directed  by  the  example.  Heaven,  we  are 
assured,  is  much  more  pleased  to  view  a  repentant  sinner,  than  niueh-niue  persons 
who  have  supported  a  course  of  undeviating  rectitude...  And  this  is  right;  for  that 
single  effort,  by  which  we  stop  short  in  the  downhill  path  to  perdition,  is  itself  a 
greater  exertion  of  virtue  than  a  .hundred  acts  of  justice.'  » 

,  Ibid. 

Let  us  soften  it  a  little  more. 

<(The  next  morning  the  sun  arose  with  peculiar  warmth  for  the  season,;  so  that  we 
agreed  to  breakfast  together  on  the  honeysuckle  bank,  where,  while  we  sat,  my 


—  24  — 

youngest  daughter,  at  my  request,  joined  her  voice  to  the  concert  on  the  trees  about 
us.  It  was  in  this  place  my  poor  Olivia  first  met  her  seducer,  and  every  object  served 
to  recall  her  sadness.  But  that  melancholy,  which  is  excited  by  objects  of  pleasure,  or 
inspired  by  sounds  of  harmony,  soothes  the  heart  instead  of  corroding  it.  Her  mother 
too ,  upon  this  occasion  ,  felt  a  pleasing  distress,  and  wept,  and  loved  her  daughter  as 
before.  '  Do ,  my  pretty  Olivia ,'  cried  she ,  '  let  us  have  that  little  melancholy  air  your 
papa  was  so  fond  of;  your  sister  Sophy  has  already  obliged  us.  Do,  child,  it  will 
please  your  old  father.'  She  complied  in  a  manner  so  exquisitely  pathetic,  as  moved 
me. 

«  When  lovely  woman  stoops  to  folly, 

«  And  finds  too  late  that  men  betray, 
«  What  charm  can  sooth  her  melancholy? 

«  What  art  can  wash  her  guilt  away? 
«  The  only  art  her  guilt  to  cover, 

«  To  hide  her  shame  from  every  eye, 
K  To  give  repentance  to  her  lover,  ■''*$ 

«  And  wring  his  bosom ,  is — to  die.  » 

ibid. 


Notes    to   tEse    sketcBa    im    prose* 


(1) — «  The  moment  that  the  folding-doors  (which  open  from  the  JJxbridge  Road)  had 
fairly  closed  upon  us ,  I  ivas  seized ,  as  the  expression  is ,  with  a  sort  of '  all- 
over-ishness ,'  » 

What  is  this  in  comparison  with  something  told  me  by  Dr  Ellis?  ( Luckily  for  the 

party,  the  effect  was  just  the  other  way. ) «  When  I  was  Physician  to  the  Lunatic 

Asylum  at  Wakefield , »  said  the  Doctor,  «' a  lady,  raving  mad ,  was  driven  in  her  car- 
«  riage  up  to  the  folding-gates.  In  crossing  a  kind  of  drawbridge,  the  rumbling  of  the 
«  wheels — aided,  no  doubt,  by  the  general  aspect  of  the  place— caused  such  a  revulsion 
«  of  feeling,  that  she  recovered  her  senses  on  the  spot ,  and  never,  as  I  heard  of ,  lost 
« them  afterwards.  »....  To  descend  a  little.  In  my  «freshman's  term»  at  Cambridge, 
( and  very  «  fresh  »  I  was  certainly )  I  accompanied ,  ( nolens  volens  perhaps , )  after 
(c  wine-ing»  with  him,  «a  man  of  the  same  year»  to  Wombwell's  travelling  menagerie, 
in  the  out-skirts  of  the  town.  With  no  consciousness  whatever  of  how  I  had  arrived 
there,  I  found  myself,  all  of  a  sudden,  standing,  quite  sober,  before  the  cage  of  a 


—  25  — 

laughing  hyaena!  It  was  feeding-time,  and  the  horrifying  cry  of  the  excited  animal  had 

brought  me  to  myself To  descend  again.    A  solicitor  of  Maidstone,  in  Kent, 

(we  had  incidentally  been  talking  of  the  tooth-ache,)  assured  me,  that,  after  having 
suffered  agonies  for  a  fortnight,  he  went  to  a  surgeon  (whom  he  named)  to  take  the 
torment  out.  The  latter  was  engaged  at  the  moment.  In  the  interval ,  the  dread  of  the 
cold  steel  had  wrought  a  counter-action  so  powerful ,  that  the  pain  evanished  in  the 
parlour  of  Mr  Haffenden,  and  the  tooth  (which  he  showed  me  in  his  head)  had  never 
troubled  him  since !     The  gentleman  was  speaking  of  fourteen  years  ago ! 

(2) — «  The  bell  was  answered  by  a  (jiggling,  half-witted  girl,  in  a  bonnet  which  was 
turned  the  wrong  side  before.  » 
The  damsel  in  question  (apparently  about  18)  was  pronounced  by  Mrs  Ellis  to  be 
a  really  a  very  good  servant, — considering.  »  Her  hallucination,  par  excellence,  was 
hebdomadal,  inasmuch  as,  once  in  every  week,  (Sunday,)  she  imagined  herself  the 
mistress  of  the  establishment !  As  it  happened,  I  saw  her  in  the  height  of  her  delusion. 
In  the  Chapel,  with  the  wonted  reversion  on  her  head,  she  presided  at  the  piano.  I  will 
only  say  of  her  performance  (would  that  the  « prestissimo »  were  confined  to  her!)  that 

«panting  Time  toil'd  after  her  in  vain!  » 

In  the  Drawing-room,  she  presided  at  the  tea-table,  and  did  the  general  honours 
of  the  evening.  Her  gracieusete's  were  confusing  of  course ,  especially  to  one ,  who , 
never  finding  anything  to  say  to  a  lady  in  her  right  senses ,  was  trebly  at  a  non-plus 
with  a  lady  in  her  ivrong.  (Dr  and  Mrs  Ellis  seldom  interfered  with  a  patient's  whims, 
provided  they  were  innocent. ) 

(3) — a  From  the  previous  impression  on  my  mind,  that  lunatics  ivere  usually  gifted 
with  good  health  and  commonly  attained  to  longevity,  I  ivas  loholly  unpre- 
pared for  the  sickly  and  appalling  sight  which  argued  the  reverse.  » 
Out  of  the  450  patients,  which,  in  1835,  formed  the  average  complement  of  the 
Asylum,  there  were,  in  general,  two  deaths  a  week.    Doubtless,  as  the  Doctor  said, 
— their  constitutions  ruined  by  intemperance ,— they  only  came  to  die. 

(4) — «  The  Asylum  I  ivas  in  ivas  expressly  for  the  poor,  the  very  poor,  » 

To  the  pauperism  (by  birth  at  least)  there  were  evident  exceptions  :  the  Telegraph , 
Captain  Macheath ,  and  his  Grace  the  Duke  of  Buckingham  had  certainly  been  born  in 
better  than  a  workhouse.  It  may  be  questioned ,  too ,  if  some  of  them  had  ever  tasted 
a  drop  of  gin. 

(5) — « spirituous  liquors  {at  once  their  solace  and  their  curse) » 

«  'The  spirit  I  drink  may  be  poison, — it  may  kill  me, — perhaps  it  is  killing  me  : 
— but  so  would  hunger,  cold,  misery,— so  would  my  own  thoughts.  I  should  have 
gone  mad  without  it.  Gin  is  the  poor  man's  friend , — his  sole  set  off  against  the  rich 
man's  luxury.    It  comforts  him  when  he  is  most  forlorn.    It  may  be  treacherous ,  it 


—  26  — 

may  lay  up  a  store  of  future  woe ;  but  it  insures  present  happiness ,  and  that  is  suffi- 
cient. When  I  have  traversed  the  streets  a  houseless  wanderer,  driven  with  curses 
from  every  door  where  I  have  solicited  alms,  and  with  blows  from  every  gate-way  where 
I  have  sought  shelter, — when  1  have  crept  into  some  deserted  building,  and  stretched 
my  wearied  limbs  upon  a  bulk,  in  the  vain  hope  of  repose, — or,  worse  than  all,  when, 
frenzied  with  want,  I  have  yielded  to  horrible  temptation ,  and  earned  a  meal  in  the 
only  way  I  could  earn  one, — when  I  have  felt,  at  times  like  these,  my  heart  sink 
within  me,  I  have  drunk  of  this  drink,  and  have  at  once  forgotten  my  cares,  my 
poverty,  my  guilt.  Old  thoughts,  old  feelings,  old  faces,  and  old  scenes  have  returned 
to  me,  and  I  have  fancied  myself  happy, — as  happy  as  I  am  now.'  And  she  burst  into 
a  wild  hysterical  laugh. 

'  Poor  creature  ! '  ejaculated  Wood.     'Do  you  call  this  frantic  glee  happiness?' 
'  It's  all  the  happiness  I  have  known  for  years,'  returned  the  widow,  becoming  sud- 
denly calm,  '  and  it's  short-lived  enough,  as  you  perceive.     I  tell  you  what,  Mr  Wood,' 
added  she,  in  a  hollow  voice,  and  with  a  ghastly  look,  'gin  may  bring  ruin;  but  as  long 
as  poverty,  vice,  and  ill-usage  exist ,  it  will  be  drunk.'  » 

Ainsworth's  «  Jack  Sheppard.  » 

(6)—  ncould  never  be  permitted  there.  » 

The  physician ,  however,  as  he  himself  informed  me ,  found  it  indispensable  at 
times  to  administer  a  dram. 

(7) — «  Our  entrance  was  speedily  remarked  by  a  portion  of  the  patients,  and  occasioned, 
as  ivas  natural ,  a  good  deal  of  additional  excitement.  » 
The  sole  visitors,  which  Lunatic  Asyhims  should  have,  are  official  ones.  As  to  idle 
curiosity,  the  gates  should  be  imperatively  shut  against  it.  The  appearance  of  a 
stranger,  as  I  can  testify,  can  only  serve  to  irritate  the  brain  and,  by  consequence , 
augment  the  ill.  I  was  happy  to  learn  in  1845,  when  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Hanwell, 
that  admission  had  become  much  more  difficult  than  formerly,  and  that  it  then  required 
the  written  sanction  of  a  county  magistrate. 

(8) — (i  Having  shirked,  as  I  best  could ,  (my  friend  was  more  au  fait  at  it  than  I)  the 
stealthy  importunities  of  four  or  jive  more  of  them,  » 

The  Chaplain  told  me ,  that  « the  quantity  of  scribbles , »  slipped  into  his  hands 
(  and  frequently  his  pockets)  during  his  professional  visits  at  the  Asylum ,  was  « quite 
((astonishing.))  Like  the  Starling  of  Sterne,  the  poor  creatures  had  but  one  cry: 
«  /  can't  get  out  I  I  can't  get  out ! » 

(9) —  «  and  made  more  funny  faces  in  a  minute  than  Munden  in  the  course  of  a 

ivholc  farce.n 

« There  is  one  face  of  Farley,  one  face  of  Knight,  oae  (but  what  a  one  it  is!)  of 
Liston ;  but  Munden  has  none  that  you  can  properly  pin  down ,  and  call  his.    When 


you  think  he  has  exhausted  his  battery  of  looks,  in  unaccountable  warfare  with  your 
gravity,  suddenly  he  sprouts  out  an  entirely  new  set  of  features,  like  Hydra.  He 
is  not  one,  but  legion.  Not  so  much  a  comedian,  as  a  company.  If  his  name  could 
be  multiplied  like  his  countenance,  it  might  fill  a  play-bill.  He,  and  he  alone, 
literally  makes  faces  :  applied  to  any  other  person ,  the  phrase  is  a  mere  figure , 
denoting  certain  modifications  of  the  human  countenance.  Out  of  some  invisible 
wardrobe  he  dips  for  faces ,  as  his  friend  Suett  used  for  wigs ,  and  fetches  them 
out  as  easily.  I  should  not  be  surprised  to  see  him  one  day  put  on  the  head  of  a 
river-horse;  or  come  forth  a  pewitt,  or  lapwing,  some  feathered  metamorphosis. 
« I  have  seen  this  gifted  actor  in  Sir  Christopher  Curry — in  Old  Dornton — diffuse 
a  glow  of  sentiments  which  has  made  the  pulse  of  a  crowded  theatre  beat  like  that 
of  one  man;  when  he  has  come  in  aid  of  the  pulpit,  doing  good  to  the  moral  heart 
of  a  people.  I  have  seen  some  faint  approaches  to  this  sort  of  excellence  in  other 
players.  But  in  the  grand  grotesque  of  farce ,  Munden  stands  out  as  single  and 
unaccompanied  as  Hogarth.  Hogarth,  strange  to  tell,  had  no  followers.  The  school 
of  Munden  began ,  and  must  end  with  himself.  » 

Charles  Lamb  ,  «  On  the  acting  of  Munden.  » 

(10)— «  Like  Rousseau  and  Richardson,  he  corresponded  with  himself !» 

(( La  nouvelle  Heloise ,  »  «  Sir  Charles  Grandison , »  «  Pamela , »  etc. ,  are  all  in  the 
epistolary  form.  In  calling  to  mind  the  reputation  of  the  authors,  we  are  led  to  reflect 
on  the  arbitrary  growth  and  diversified  developement  of  the  human  intellect.  The  genius 
of  Rousseau,  of  Richardson,  and  Chaucer  lay  absolutely  dormant, — of  the  first,  till  he 
was  forty,  of  the  other  two ,  till  they  were  fifty,  years  of  age.  Tasso ,  Raphael ,  Burns , 
Byron,  and  Bellini  died  at  thirty-seven.  The  victor  of  Lodi  was  little  more  than  half 
as  old  as  Turenne,  when  the  great  Marshal  won  his  first  battle.  At  a  period  of  existence, 
when  Pascal  was  astonishing  the  world  with  his  varied  powers  of  thought,  Lamennais 
was  dismissed  from  a  tutorship  in  London,  as  nun  pauvre  homme,  sans  capacite.v 
At  twenty-four,  William  Pitt  was  leader  of  The  House  of  Commons,  where  Samuel 
Whitbread,  for  fifteen  years,  sat  and  said  nothing  but  «cw/e»  or  ««o.»  Chatterlou 
committed  suicide  in  his  teens;  White  was  worn  out  and  carried  to  the  churchyard  at 
one-and-twenty, — an  age,  when  the  mind  of  *  Alfieri  was  full  of  weeds.  At  sixteen, 
Pope  composed  his  Pastorals;  at  sixteen,  Sheridan  was  cited  as  a  fool,  etc. ,  etc. ,  etc. 


*  Alfleri  (if  the  epithet  may  pass)  was  a  man  of  as  uncomfortable  a  genius,  as  ever  disquieted  a 
human  breast.  Like  Byron,  a  patrician  born;  fatherless,  like  Byron,  at  an  early  period;  of  untoward 
temper  and  wayward  disposition ;  unseasonably  soon  his  own  master ,  and ,  by  consequence ,  his  own 
slave ;  of  ample  revenue ;  of  wilful  inclinations  and  of  wild  indulgences ;  the  subject  of  a  small  and 
jealous  state ,  where  the  wings  of  Liberty  were  carefully  kept  cut ;  adapted ,  it  would  seem ,  for  a  life 
of  action,  but  condemned,  by  circumstances,  to  one  of  inactivity;  disgusted  and  indignant,  blase  and 
ennuye,  posting  from  realm  to  realm  to  hurry  from  himself;  on  four  occasions  in  the  land  of  Freedom, 


—  28  — 

(11) — «  Like  Valhek  in  '  The  Hall  of  Eblis,'  when  the  fatal  hour  ivas  come  and  the  final 

judgement  was  pronounced  against  him ,  each  particular  soul  was  stricthf 

separate — rigidly  apart — all  acquaintance  dead — all  lies  broken — in  the 

midst  of  company  uncompanionable — smileless — ivordless — taciturnly  sad 

and  gloomily  alone.  » 

I  regret  to  find ,  since  printing  off  the  text ,  that  my  memory  has  deceived  me , 

inasmuch  as,  in  the  fearful  subterrane,  so  magnificently  drawn  by  Beckford ,  all 

acquaintance  was  not  dead.     The  passage  is  too  terrible  to  quote. 

(12)— «  As  1  gazed  upon  his  fatuous  affliction,  1  bethought  me  of  a  cretin  in  the 
canton  of  Geneva.  » 

Having,  one  April  day,  taken  shelter  in  a  chalet  at  the  foot  of  Le  Grand  Saleve, 
near  Geneva,  from  a  violent  snow-storm,  I  was  shortly  followed  by  a  boy  of  16 
or  17,  who,  crying  piteously,  made  his  way  to  the  fire  and  stuck  himself  in  the 
very  corner  of  the  hearth.  Malgrd  the  warmth,  his  grief  was  unabated.  «Qu'est-ce 
a.  que  cela  veut  dire'h)  1  inquired  of  the  peasant's  wife,  when  my  sympathising 
questions  had  elicited  no  sort  of  answer  from  the  object  of  them,  ullien  du  tout, » 
replied  the  woman,  as  she  quietly  continued  kneading  her  dough  :  uc'est  un  cretin.  » 
Now,  as  I  observed  no  *  goitre  nor  indeed  any  particular  trait  of  +  Cretinisme,  (such 


and  returning  home  as  often, — the  first  time,  with'  the  reputation  of  a  roue,  a  jockey,  and  a  coach- 
man ;  the  second,  with  a  heap  of  ridicule  and  the  bitter  consciousness  of  having  glaringly  deserved  it ; 
the  third ,  with  a  string  of  horses ;  and  the  fourth ,  with  a  library  of  books ;  with  every  thing  to  do , 
(a  crude  poet  and  a  wretched  scholar)  a  candidate  for  literary  fame;  of  a  hard  mind,  a  hard  manner, 
and  a  style  of  writing  to  the  full  as  hard ;  severe  of  purpose ;  a  Calo  of  the  closet ;  a  patriot  of  the 
peri ;  appealing  on  the  boards,  in  the  diction  of  Sallust,  to  the  spirit  of  a  people ,  which ,  however  it 
might  laud  the  tenour  of  his  dramas,  was  morally  unequal  to  practise  what  it  praised ;  of  a  nature  all 
antithesis,  and  every  thing  by  turns, — extravagant  and  mean, — plain  and  ostentatious, — talkative  and 
silent, — convivial  and  morose, — irascible  and  cold, — impetuous  aud  guarded, — infatuate  and  firm, 
— assiduous  and  idle, — a  student,  and  a  dreamer,  and  a  mope, — tenacious  of  his  talent,  yet  mistrustful 
of  his  powers, — ambitious  of  renown ,  yet  deaf  to  what  he  coveted , — a  foe  to  tyrants,  yet  a  Tarquin 
in  his  heart, — haughty  and  familiar, — a  hero  and  a  mime, — ed  Achille  e  Tersile,  as  we  have  it  from 
himself;  as  little  fitted  to  secure  affection  as  to  fix  esteem  :  behold  the  Seneca  of  modern  Italy,  the 
rigid  play-Wright  of  the  easy  south ,  the  author  of  «  Timoleon,»  of  «  Agis,  »  and  of  either  «  Brutus,  » 
Vittorio  Alfieri ,  according  to  Byron ,  (  who ,  then ,  will  deny  it  ? )  »  the  great  name  of  the  age !  » 

See  the  autobiography  or  vol.  I.  of  Lloyd's  translation  of  the  Tragedies. 

*  «  Quoi  qu'il  en  soit,  une  tumeur  plus  ou  moins  dure,  situee  a  la  partie  anterieure  ct  inferieure  du 
coil ,  constiUie  le  symptome  fondamental  et  caracteristique  du  goitre.  Cette  tumeur  n'a  quelquefois 
que  le  volume  d'une  noix ,  mais  bien  souvent  elle  a  trois  et  qualre  fois  la  gro'sseur  du  poing ,  et  em- 
brasse  route  la  partie  anterieure  du  cou ;  d'autres  fois  elle  se  dctache  du  larynx  pour  tomber  plus  ou 
moins  ba's  sur  la  poitrine;  on  l'a  meme  vue  descendre  j usque  sur  l'abdomen.  » 

v  n  Les  cretins  sont  des  especes  d'idiots,  cliez  lesquels  l'absence  des  facultes  morales  et  intellectuelies 


—  29  — 

as  I  had  seen  in  various  part  of  Switzerland ,  of  Savoy,  and  of  Piedmont , )  she  merely- 
meant,  I  apprehend,  that  the  stripling  was  an  ideot. 

(13) —  «.he  caught  me  by  the  xorist ,  and  held  me  like  Abraham  Cann'.n 

The  famous  wrestler  was  double-jointed,  and,  with  one  hand,  could  crush  a  pewter- 
pot  !  Of  middle  height  and  corresponding  weight ,  he  nevertheless,  owing  to  the  above 
circumstance,  was  an  equal  match  for  Polkinghorne, —  a  Oner  man  by  far.  They 
thrice  contended  for  the  Championship.  The  conquering  game  of  the  athletic  rubber 
came  off  at  Exeter,  in  or  about  the  year  1834,  when,  after  a  tremendous  struggle 
and  a  wonderful  display  of  courage ,  strength ,  and  skill  de  part  et  d' autre ,  Cann , 
according  to  the  Devonites,  and  Polkinghorne,  according  to  the  Cornwallers,  eventuated 
victor.  The  excitement,  the  esprit-de-corps ,  the  jealousy,  the  irritation  of  the  8000 
spectators  (utriusque  comitis)  were  so  great,  that,  had  the  contest  but  occurred  in 
the  time  of  the  Heptarchy,  it  is  extremely  probable  the  two  counties  would  have 
*  gone  to  war  about  it!  I  have  often  spoken  on  the  subject  to  natives  of  either 
side  of  the  Tamar,  and  have  always  found  it  a  party-question.  Some  idea  of  the 
« pluck »  and  « bottom*  of  the  combatants  may  be  formed  from  the  fact,  that  the 
Devonshire  hero  had  to  deal  with  a  man ,  whose  rib-cracking  hug  made  him  actually 
vomit  for  pain ,  and  that  he  of  Cornwall  was  standing  to  be  kicked  by  a  sinewy 
fellow,  the  soles  of  whose  half-boots  were  bound  with  iron ,  and  had  purposely  been 
boiled  in  bullock's  blood  !     Cann  (who  died  a  few  months  afterwards)    I  never  saw, 


s'accompagne  d'une  degradation  non  moins  remarquable  des  formes  exterieures.  Connus  le  plus  go- 
ncralement  sous  le  nom  de  cretins ,  ils  sont  encore  appeles  vulgairement  cagols  dans  les  Pyrenees, 
pcsans  clans  le  Valais,  denomination  qui  exprime  bien  l'apathie  inlellectuelle  et  physique  dans  laquelle 
ils  \ivent.  Le  portrait  des  cretins  ofire  a  peu  pres  le  nieme  type  dans  tous  les  auteurs  qui  ont  ecrit  sur  ces 
ctres  degrades  et  malheureux.  Nous  emprunterons ,  comme  une  des  plus  completes ,  la  description  du 
crelinisme,  donnee  par  M.  Ferrus,  dans  ses  lecons,  recueillies  par  51.  le  docteur  Dugasl  (Gaz.  des  hop, 
annee,  1838)  :  'Les  cretins,  dit-il,  ont  unetaille  beaucoup  au-dessous  de  la  moyenne;  quelques-uns 
de  ceux  qui  ont  ete  sounds  a  mon  observation  ne  depassaient  pas  trois  pieds ;  leurs  membres  sont 
epais  et  tres  courts,  surtout  les  inferieurs  ,'  >•  etc. ,  etc.  ,  etc. 

«  Dictionnaire  de  Medecine,  »  par  le  docteur  Fabre. 

JV.  B.  The  curious  in  such  matters  'would  do  well  to  read,  in  the  aforesaid  Dictionary,  the  two 
articles  on  Goitre  and  on  Crelinisme.  They  are  exceedingly  interesting,  but,  as  extracts,  quite  beyond 
the  limits  of  a  note. 

*  If,  on  the  folly  and  triviality  of  lighting,  Voltaire  is  pleasant,  Sterne  is  pleasanter  still.  The  latter, 
among  a  mass  of  others,  has  a  piquant  story  of  a  certain  king,  who,  on  the  birth  of  an  heir  to  his 
throne,  was  -solicited  by  three  adjoining  states  to  vouchsafe  them  the  honour  of  the  sponsorship.  The 
sovereign  consented  but  retracted  in  alarm,  as  soon  as  lie  had  heard  of  the  proposed  prcenomina  for 
his  hoy,— Shadr ach ,  Meshuch,  and  Abcdnego !  A  special  mission  was  dispatched  with  his  paternal 
remonstrances,  "hut  they  were  unavailing  :  the  royalvvord  was  passed.  A  second  mission  having  met 
with  a  similar  rebuff,  his  Majesty  cut  the  matter  short  by  saying  to  his  ministers:  "Well,  then,  by  G-! 
<:  tce'ii  go  to  tear  with  tliem !  >• 


—  30  — 

but  I  was  introduced  to  Polkinghorne  by  his  landlord  at  St.  Colomb ,  where  he  kept 
an  inn.  It  was  market-day,  and  the  celebrated  athlete,  assisted  by  a  son  and  daughter 
was  as  busy  as  a  bee  with  a  bar-full  of  customers.  They  were  a  splendid  trio , 
—the  father,  high  and  broad ,  and  the  children  ( who  bore  a  strong  resemblance  to 
him )  each  of  them 

«  As  tall  and  straight  as  a  poplar-tree !  » 
«  Polkinghorne ,  »  said  my  agreeable  stage-coach  companion  from  Exeter,  «  here's  a 
gentleman  wishes  to  make  your  acquaintance. »  «I  shall  be  happy  to  try  a  fall  with 
the  gentleman,))  replied  his  tenant,  as  he  eyed  me  with  a  comical  expression  of 
face.  icQh!  as  to  that,»  I  answered,  showing  him  my  broken  fingers,  «my  horse 
made  the  same  experiment  a  twelvemonth  back  and  so,  thoroughly  succeeded ,  that, 
if  it's  all  one  to  you ,  Mr  Polkinghorne ,  I  'd  rather  not. »  The  wrestler  laughed  and 
trusted  I  'd  try  his  sherry  at  all  events ,  and ,  reaching  down  a  bottle  overhead ,  he 

poured  out  three  glasses,  and  I  hob-and-nob-ed  with  Mr and  «(dies  albo  notanda 

lapillo ! )  with  the  powerful  opponent  of  the  double-jointed  Cann. 

(14)— «  His  mind  (and  by  implication  his  body)  was  clearly  in  «  the  regions  of  thick- 
ribbed  ice.  » 

A  good  many  years  ago ,  when  we  visited  together,  in  the  month  of  June ,  Burford's 
panorama  of  Spitsbergen ,  a  brother  of  mine  was  much  amused  at  seeing  me ,  on 
entering  the  rotunda,  suck  in  my  breath,  button  up  my  coat,  thrust  my  hands 
into  my  pockets,  and  give  myself  a  January  shrug! 

(15) — .....  ^fancied  himself  (could  madness  go  beyond?)  no  other  than  /» 

« Facts  are  stubborn  things;))  otherwise  the  reader  (to  put  it  mildly)  might  be 
sceptical  about  the  following,  which  figured  in  the  Journals  of  the  day.  Even  as  it  is,  he 
will  scarcely  credit,  that,  so  recently  as  1838  and  under  the  very  walls  of  Canterbury 
Cathedral ,  one  individual  could  be  found  to  pass  himself  off  for  our  Saviour  and  a 
hundred  to  believe  in  him !!!  By  a  hyper-hallucination ,  the  lunatic  in  question  (John 
Thorn,  a  native  of  Cornwall)  claimed  to  be  the  Earl  of  Coventry  as  well !  Of  a  striking 
and  abetting  mien,  he  was  usually  attired  in  the  fashion  of  the  East,  and  was  singularly 
like  (*do  painters  read  Isaiah?)  the  portraits  and  \liz  prints  of  Jesus-Christ.  Hence  the 


*  In  1825 ,  I  saw ,  in  the  Mus£e  at  Rouen ,  a  young  artist  engaged  upon  the  copy  of  a  head ,  which 
would  have  done  for  Adam's,  as  he  woke  in  Paradise.  Now,  according  to  tradition,  the  Redeemer  of 
mankind  ( it  was  meant  for  his )  had  a  homely  appearance ,  pitted  face ,  and  sandy  hair.  But  then 
(worth  all  the  beauty  in  the  world)  the  sentiment,  the  sensibility,  the  sense  of  the  countenance !  what 
purity,  what  feeling ,  what  sagacity,  what  thought  it  must  have  shown !  And  then ,  again ,  the  soft 
sublimity  of  that  unsullied  character !  Let  us  cite,  for  instance,  the  grief  for  Lazarus, — the  lamentation 
for  Jerusalem,— the  address  to  the  woman  taken  in  adultery,— what  divine  humanity  it  was,  and  what 
a  look  must  have  accompanied  it ! 


—  31  — 
worst  delusion  of  the  two.  Obnoxious  (I  forget  on  what  account)  to  the  laws  of  the 
land ,  he  was ,  at  the  head  of  his  miserable  devotees ,  encountered  in  the  fields  by  a 
detachment  of  soldiers,  the  leader  of  whom,  Lieutenant  Bennet,  he  deliberately  shot. 
An  engagement,  regular  or  irregular,  then  took  place,  and  the  madman,  with  some 
fellow-fanatics ,  lost  his  life.  Before  they  came  to  blows ,  he  appears  to  have  told  his 
besotted  partisans,  that,  in  the  event  of  his  being  killed,  all  they  had  to  do  was  to  wet 
his  lips  with  a  little  water,  and  he  infallibly  would  rise  again.  He  was  killed,  and  they 
did  wet  his  lips  with  a  little  water,  but  the  Coroner  (as  the  curious  expression  is)  sat 
upon  the  body  of  John  Thorn  all  the  same ! 

(16)—  «  My  jriend  (as  well  as  I  can  recollect)  drew  a  key  from  his  pocket,  unlocked 
a  communicating  door, » 

Fortunately,  in  the  present  case,  topographical  precision  is  of  no  vast  consequence. 
Taken  aback  from  the  very  first  (as  I  have  said  I  was)  by  the  ivhite  emaciation  of  so 
many  of  the  patients,  I  may  surely  be  excused,  especially  at  the  lapse  of  seventeen 
years,  for  a  possible  confusion  of  doors.  At  the  period  of  my  casual  visit  to  the  Hos- 
pital at  Hanwell,  I  had  no  idea  of  writing  of  it.  The  sketch  in  1852  is  traceable  to 
the  verses  in  1835,  and  the  latter  were  composed  because  I  could'nt  help  it.  The 
sequel  will  expound.  A  dash  against  a  brick-wall— approximating ,  in  its  effects, 
so  close  to  a  concussion  of  the  brain,  that,  for  better  than  a  week,  1  lay  in  a  darkened 
room,  with  a  double-folded  bandage  on  my  eyes, — had  necessitated,  among  other 
measures,  the  shaving  of  my  head.  As  soon  as  I  could  pay  some  personal  attention 
to  cleanliness,  on  beholding  the  figure,  which  the  looking-glass  reflected  ,  I  exclaimed 
(an  enigma  to  the  hearer)  « Benjamin!  Benjamin! »  and  said  no  more.  The  operation 
(for  such  it  was)  of  the  toilette  being  over,  the  shutters  were  reclosed  and  I  was  left 
alone.  But  the  train  was  fired  :  the  thoughts,  that,  unsuspected  of  myself,  had 
gathered  strength  from  day  to  day,  were  ignited ,  as  it  were,  by  the  match  of  accident, 
— the  thoughts ,  I  mean ,  of  that  depressing  place  , — that  painful  edifice , — that  naked 
garden , — that  dreamy  handiwork , — that  madness-opened  door, — that  staring  hall , 
— that  silent  kitchen, — that  slow  distraction, — that  ghastly  corridor, — that  varied 
phrenzy,— that  kindred  court, — that  thistled  ground,— that  mournful  spot, — that 
rugged  bier, — that  nameless  coffin, — that  swampy  grave, — that  friendless  funeral, 
— that  ready  spade  ,— that  ready  rope,— that  gestic  sign, — that  crazy  help,— that 
lowered  corpse,— that  clay  to  clay, — that  sadding  service, — that  touching  lark, — that 
dust  to  dust, — that  living  sympathy, — that  dead  unconsciousness, — that  final  prayer, 

— that  burying  amen! 

«  Tis  better  thus,  thou  poor  unfortunate!  » 
and  so  the  lines  went  on  (whatever  their  desert)  both  feelingly  and  fast.     The  only 
interruption  was  my  tears,  more  fast  and  feeling  still!    In  this  wise  was  it,  then, 
the  pauper  of  Hanwell— and ,  shortly  afterwards,  the  patriot  of  Trafalgar— received 
the  tribute  of  my  verse, — my  simple  monody,— my  humble  requiem.    Expostulation 


—  32  — 

was  in  vain;  My  mind  was  over-mastered,  and  I  really  had  no  power— no  choice 
— but  to  go  on  composing  till  either  piece  was  finished.  To  the  tears,  that,  ever 
and  anon ,  so  seasonably  fell ,  and  lightened  and  relieved  and  cooled  my  brain ,  I 
owe ,  without  a  doubt ,  my  cerebral  escape ,  and  that  I  did  not ,  in  that  hazardous 
exertion  of  it,  according  to  the  apprehensions  of  anxiety,  become  the  inmate  of  a 
Lunatic  Asylum,  from  which  (and  I  pray  for  others  as  for  me  myself)  may  God 
preserve  us  all ! 


THE  DEBTOR'S  DODGE, 


OR 


^aa  saaaasa   &2?2>  saa  s&aaass. 


BY 


STEPHEN    PRENTIS,    M.   A. 


A    SKETCH    OF    LEVY'S    WAREHOUSE ,  »    CtC. 


J.-B.    HUART, 

©asms?* 


1852. 


THE  DEBTOR'S  DODGE, 


OR 


aaa   saaaaaa   &sjid   sas   a&a&asi?. 


The  curious  occurrence,  versified  beneath,  was  recorded  in  «  Le  Journal  du  Nord » 
a  week  or  two  ago.  The  paragraph  ,  as  given  by  Galignani's  « Messenger,  » 
is  cited  in  the  Note.  The  incident ,  for  poetic  purposes ,  has  been  a  little 
embellished. 


Of  a  miller  in  France  I  relate  ye  a  fact, 

Whose  affairs  at  Avesnes  were  so  far  from  compact, 

That  a  bailiff  had  sought ,  both  by  hook  and  by  crook , 

From  December  to  August  to  bring  him  to  book, 

But  the  other,  as  little  a  man  to  be  done, 

Never  loosen'd  a  bolt  till  the  set  of  the  sun, 

And  as  certain  he  was,  when  the  morrow  had  birth, 

To  repair  to  his  keep  as  a  fox  to  his  earth. 

*  For  the  «  copious  notes  »  to  this  foolery  see  the  recent  octavo  edition  of  it.    Here  but  only  one  is 
retained ,  the  first  to  wit. 


Yet  one  morn  he  had  left,  to  the  shame  of  his  nous, 
inadvertently  open  the  door  of  his  house, 
So  the  badiff  ( who  chanc'd ,  with  the  writ  in  his  pocket , 
To  be  passing  at  sunrise)  for  fear  he  should  lock  it, 
(Iross'd  the  sill  in  a  jiffey,  and,  grinning'  with  joy, 
Thought  (in  French)   « By  the  masses!  I've  nabb'd  ye,  my  boy? 
■<  For  the  sun  of  good-luck  after  all  has  arisen , 
-  That  shall  light  ye  to  limbo  aud  lodge  ye  in  prison !  ■• 


Then  the  bailiff  look'd  here,  and  the  bailiff  look'd  there, 

And  the  bailiff  stood  looking  a-top  of  the  stair, 

Where  the  miller  at  hand ,  of  no  warrant  in  dread , 

With  his  bonnet-de-nuit  on  his  whitey-brown  head, 

The  reverse  of  the  lark ,  was  just  going  to  bed ; 

And  a  blessing  be  ow'd  to  his  fortunate  star, 

That  the  shadows  were  strong  and  the  door  was  a-jar, 

Or  the  orient  orb ,  of  a  counter  avail , 

Would  have  leagu'd  with  the  badiff  to  pop  him  in  jail. 


As  it  was,  why,  the  miller  no  sooner  caught  sight 
<  )f  the  ominous  shade  than ,  hnpelTd  by  affright , 
From  the  window  he  juiup'd  unaccoutred  below, 
And  was  off  (it  was  time!)  like  a  shot  from  a  bow, 
But  the  badiff,  albe't  unprepar'd  for  a  chase 
With  a  man  without  raiment,  felt  sure  of  the  race, 
Inasmuch  as ,  tho'  hamper'd  with  nethers  and  blouse , 
He  possess'd  the  decided  advantage  of  shoes. 


Over  hedge ,  over  ditch ,  over  gardens  and  fields , 
With  a  posse  of  harvesters  hard  at  their  heels , 
Unto  whom — for  they  all  knew  the  bailiff — the  run 
— And  they  guess'd  at  the  miller — was  capital  fun , 

Did  the  latter,  whose  soul  would  have  gone  for  his  shoes, 
And  the  former,  a-swearing  away  at  his  blouse, 
Helter-skelter  along,  to  the  laughing  delight 
Of  the  peasants  that  chevi'd  and  cheer'd  at  the  sight. 


With  the  gravel  and  stone  '  the  poor  debtor  '  to  bother, 

And  a  pair  of  old  high-lows  to  favour  the  other, 

Whose  « invincible  courage  »  bested  him  so  gaily, 

That  «  *  The  Cope  »  would  have  laid  «  any  odds  on  the  baili  » 

Notwithstanding  his  blouse's  occasional  hitch 

In  a  hedge  and  an  awful  hang-up  in  a  ditch, 

It  was  clear  on  a  course ,  not  exactly  of  heather, 

What  the  shoemakers  say)  that  «  there's  nothing  like  leal  her.  « 


Now  the  miller,  unable  to  fairly  compete 

With  the  man  with  the  writ  on  account  of  his  feet, 

Fell  in  love  with  the  turf,  that  his  «  trotters  »  befriended, 

While  the  river  it  border'd  as  luckily  tended 

A  diversion  to  make  and  suggested  a  ruse 

To  outset  « the  decided  advantage  of  shoes ,  » 

So,  with  nothing  his  own  liquid  path  to  oppose, 

He  permitted  the  bailiff  to — strip  if  he  chose, 

*  Copenhagen  House,  in  tbe  Islington  fields,  is  the  prime  arena  of  the  great  pedestrian  matches  of 
the  day.     ( See  Bell's  «  Life  in  London  »  for  any  week  you  please. ) 


And  in  he  went  souse,  and  made  off  like  a  frog, 

As  his  sanguine  pursuer,  a  moment  agog 

Yet  deterinin'd  to  beat,  reach'd  the  edge  of  the  mead, 

And  began  to  undress  with  a  mischievous  speed. 

Down  the  bank,  first  of  all,  flew  his  float-away  hat, 

Then  he  knotted  still  worse  his  untoward  cravat , 

Then  a  tussle  he  had  with  his  rascally  blouse, 

Then  he  fought  with  Ms  shirt,  then  he  tugg'd  at  his  trews 

But  he  settled  at  once  not  to  part  with  his  shoes, 

And  in  he  went  souse,  and  made  off  from  the  shore 
To  the  sound  of  a  fresh  cachinnatory  roar 
From  the  hinds  and  two  cavalry  constables  there 
And  the  rural  police  and  his  Worship  the  Mayor 
And  a  farmer,  a  fat  as  a  steer  o'  the  stall, 
And  a  curate  of  course, — «  early  birds  »  of  'em  all, 
Whose  '  unquenchable  mirth  caus'd  the  ether  to  shake , ' 
To  behold  such  a  hunt  a  la  dog  and  a  drake ! 


It  was  well  for  the  miller,  with  justice's  claw 
So  alarmingly  close ,  he  had  five  minutes'  law  ' 
^Thus  abroad  as  at  home,  on  the  stage  of  Avesnes 
Was  that  laughable  farce  acted  over  again, 
Lata  and  Justice  »  I  mean , — which  is  visible  dady 
In  the  Court  o'  King's  bench  or  the  gallows  Old  Bailey, 
Where,  thanks  to  some  technical  quibble  or  flaw, 
They,  that  Justice  pursues,  owe  their  safety  to  Law ! J 


It  was  well  for  the  miller  he  took  to  the  water 
With  a  far  better  motive  than  «  *  Sestos's  daughter,  » )-   • 
It  was  well  for  the  miller  the  water  was  wide, 
( It  was  wider  just  then  on  account  of  the  tide , 
And  the  tide  was  a  spring  on  account  of  the  moon , ) 
Or  the  resolute  bailiff  infallibly  soon 

Would  his  shoulder  have  tapp'd,  for  he  swum  like  Leander, 
Who,  in  love  with  a  goose,  cut  along  like  a  gander! 


But  a  five  minutes'  start  on  a  river  of  France, 
Which  is  never  as  wide  as  a  reach  of  the  Ranee, 
More  especially  too,  if  ye  hap  to  compete 
With  a  bailiff  (as  then)  that  has  shoes  to  his  feet, 
And  presuming  you  more  than  a  match  for  a  fowl 
( Say  a  long-legged  '  cock  o'  the  walk ' )  or  an  owl 
Or  a  pig  that  commits  suicide  by  the  way, 
Is  a  pretty  good  step  towards  winning  the  day. 


Now  the  miller,  who  else  was  devoid  of  a  chance 

With  as  clipping  a  swimmer  as  any  in  France, 

Was  indebted  to  both,  as  the  river  he  eross'd 

And  by  water  regain'd  what  by  land  he  had  lost. 
/  His  alarm  at  an  end,  and  the  fun  to  prolong 
<  For  the  sake  of  hunself  and  the  jocular  throng, 
\  He  was  seen  to  proceed  where  the  current  was  strong , 

With  a  canny  look-out  tho',  like  Robinson  Crusoe 

Ever  after  the  eddy  had  serv'd  his  canoe  so! 

"  Hero,  who  drowned  herself  for  love  in  the  Hellespont ,  when  she  discovered  the  dead  body  of 
Leander  on  the  shore. 


But  the  bailifl ,  afeard  of  «  the  current  or  eddy  » 
Just  as  much  as  a  butcher-boy  is  of  a  «  neddy  » 
Or  a  o  nigger  '»  o'  drowning ,  kept  puffing  along 
Till  he  came  where  the  water  was  <<  coming  it  strong ,  » 
And  was  presently  spuming  about  in  the  whirl, 
While  the  miller  (who  once  had  been  caught  by  the  twirl) 
Said  ( in  French ) ,  as  he  wisely  sheer'd  off  for  the  sod , 
«  II  est  flam  be ,  pardi !  »   ("he  is  diddled,  by   G — /  » J 


Round  and  round  in  the  river,  again  and  again, 
Went  the  bailiff,  the  busiest  man  of  Avesnes, 
Tout  ebahi  »   (the  gallic  of  our  «  flabbergasted  » ) 
While  his  shock  of  surprise  at  the  whirligig  lasted. 
And  the  boys  on  the  bank,  how  they  pointed  and  jeer'd, 
As  his  head  in  the  wet  hurly-burly  appear'd 
(  «  Si  liceat  magnis  componere  parva,  »J 

Like  a  skiff  at  some  junction  aquatic  of  Java ! 


Round  and  round  in  the  river,  again  and  again, 
Went  the  bailiff,  the  busiest  man  of  Avesnes, 
f  And  was  bobbing  about  like  a  «  taty  »  or  what- 
<  Ever  else  ye  may  please  in  a  boiler  or  pot 
(  When  the  dinner  is  nigh  and  the  water  is  hot, 
Till,  as  clearly  unfit  to  contend  with  the  worry 
As  was  *  Ajut  to  tackle  the  whale  in  its  «  flurry,  » 
He  was  borne  to  a  sort  of  a  jetty  below, 
As  the  miller  had  been  just  a  twelvemonth  ago. 

See  «  The  Rambler  »  for  the  charming  Utile  story  of  «  Anningait  and  Ajut.  » 


With  the  game  on  his  left ,  and  the  folk  on  his  right , 
There  were  fifty  at  least  to  assist  at  the  sight) 
Did  the  myrmidon  look ,  as  he  staringly  went , 

hike  a  spaniel  at  fault  on  the  flood  of  the  Trent 

Out  o'  breath  on  the  marge  at  the  place  that  I  spoke  of, 
Not  to  be  in  Avesnes  made  a  butt  and  a  joke  of, 
When  his  bird,  with  a  limp,  took  to  running  anew, 
Why  the  bailiff,  of  course,  took  to  padding  it  too. 


As  the  partridge  (no  reynard  on  earth  could  do  better) 

Will  an  accident  feign  to  benoodle  the  setter, 

And  will  flounder  in  front,  at  the  length  of  a  perch 

From  the  pointer,  to  leave  him  at  last  in  the  lurch, 

So  the  miller  pretended  the  cut  of  a  stone 

Or  the  thorn  of  a  bush  had  gone  right  to  the  bone 

As  he  skirted  the  stream,  that  led  round  to  his  house, 

Till ,  by  Jove !  in  the  water  once  more  he  went  souse .' 


Thought  the  myrmidon  then ,  as  he  stopp'd  to  get  wind , 
What  a  sell  to  be  sure !  why  the  *  weasel  is  ginn'd ! 
And  a  finish  he's  put  to  his  voyage  and  travel , 

Since  his  option  at  present  is  granite  or  gravel !  » 

In  a  « petit  quart  d'heure  »  ( for  he  swum  with  a  will ) 
He  emerg'd  from  the  wave  with  the  man  o'  the  mill, 
And,  as  much  as  to  say  «  you  my  prisoner  are,  » 
Laid  his  paAv  on  his  shoulder  and  gasp'd  out  «  ha — ha  !  » 

«  Catch  a  weasel  asleep'.  » 


As  the  hoarse  interjection  came  slow  from  his  lips  f 

His  professional  phiz  was  the  colour  of  dips, 

And  was  never  a  face  more  ineffably  pale 

At  the  cap  of  a  judge  in  the  hall  of  a  jail ! 

But  the  mirth  of  the  crowd  hung  its  manifold  head 

Till  the  cut-and-dry  miller  had  jestingly  said 

In  a  tone  of  surprize  and  concern  and  contrition , 

Which  partook  after  all  of  the  tone  of  derision  : 


I'm  afraid ,  Sir,  you're  ill !     How  it  shocks  me  to  see 
By  your  cheek  and  your  chest — if  it's  owiug  to  me, 
Why  may  Satan  requite  me  and  give  me  my  due, 
That  have  given  alas !  such  vexation  to  you ! 
But ,  to  prove  my  remorse  for  the  scoff  and  disgrace , 
Which  on  Justice  I've  brought  by  this  crododile  chase , 
Will  I  walk  at  your  heels  and  with  patience  submit 
To  my  fate  :   you  have  only  to  show  vie  the  writ.  » 


Then  the  bailiff,  as  savage  as  Swift  at  tbe  core, 

Was  pursu'd  by  a  fresh  cachimiatorv  roar 

From  the  hinds  and  the  cavalry  constables  there , 

And  the  rural  police  and  his  Worship  the  Mayor 

And  the  farmer,  as  fat  as  a  steer  o'  the  stall , 

And  the  curate  and  them — the  *  young  cucumbers  all, 

Who  had  follow'd  the  chase  and  that  shard  in  the  fun 

Of  a  jackall  of  Justice  thus  diddled  aud  done! 


*  Pickles  (cornichons  in  French). 


For  the  debtor,  they  soon  set  him  up  with  a  blouse, 

And  a  sine-qud-non  pair  of  casual  shoes , 

And  a  bevy  conducted  him  home  to  his  door, 
(As  the  Romans  did  Sylla,  dictator  no  more,) 

And  a  volley  of  cheers  was  bestow'd  on  the  miller, 
( Who  deserv'd  'em — aye ,  almost  as  richly  as  Sylla , ) 
i  While  the  bailiff  (like  Chryses)  went  back  by  the  shore 
r  With  «  a  plague,  on  'em  all  »  and  internally  swore 
[  That  «  he'd  never  serve  writs  of  a  Friday  no  more !  » 


«  Mais  pour  fmir  enfin »  and  to  finally  say 
What  occur'd  at  the  close  of  this  singular  day. 
When  the  bailiff  (whose  house,  to  make  matters  complete, 
Was  expos'd  by  his  gossiping  bonne  in  the  street , ) 
To  forget  his  annoy  was  just  going  to  bed , 
Why,  who  should  Avalk  in  but  the  miller  that  said , 
With  a  bow,  as  polite  as  the  best  in  the  land, 
And  his  saluing  casque  tie  of  course  in  his  hand  : 


«  From  my  deep  obligations — a  thousand  and  more — 
«  To  that  well-meaning  gentleman ,  Monsieur  Lenoir, 
«  I  were  thankless  indeed  my  adieus  not  to  pay, 
«  For  I'm  off,  as  you  see,  Sir,  at  close  o'  the  day 
«  And  by  sunrise  shall  be  many  leagues  on  my  way 
«  To  behold  at  Liege  ( the  reflection  is  sore ) 
«  Nor  Avesnes  nor  my  mill  nor  my  creditors  more 
«  Nor  that  sharp  sheriffs  officer,  Monsieur  Lenoir !  » 


£f©^3» 


«  The  paragraph,  as  given  by  Galignanfs  « Messenger, »  is  cited  in  the  Note.» 

«  The  Impartial  du  Piord  relates  the  following  : 

«A  curious  fact  has  just  taken  place  in  a  commune  in  the  arrondissement  of 
Aveynes ,  in  the  presence  of  a  number  of  people.  A  huissier  was  charged  with  a 
writ  for  debt  against  a  miller  which  be  bad  for  some  time  endeavoured,  but  in  vain, 
to  serve.  A  few  days  since  he  again  made  his  appearance  at  the  residence  of  the 
miller,  accompanied  by  some  gendarmes.  The  miller  was  almost  in  a  state  of  nudity 
when  the  huissier  made  his  appearance ,  but  he  nevertheless  determined  to  have  a 
run  for  it.  He  rushed  out  of  the  door  en  chemise ,  closely  followed  by  the  huissier, 
who  had  the  advantage  over  his  opponent  in  the  race,  as  he  had  shoes  on.  After 
running  some  time  the  miller  found  that  his  pursuer  was  gaining  ground  on  him , 
and  be  determined  on  plunging  into  the  river.  The  huissier  hesitated,  but,  spurred 
on  by  the  jeers  of  the  assembled  crowd ,  he  stripped  and  jumped  in ,  and  they  both 
breasted  the  waves  like  perfect  Leanders.  The  miller  kept  the  advantage  while  in 
the  water,  but  at  length  was  compelled  to  land ,  when  another  foot-race  took  place 
across  the  meadows.  Here  the  huissier  was  more  than  a  match  for  him ,  and  was 
on  the  point  of  seizing  his  prey,  when ,  on  reaching  the  bank  of  the  canal ,  the 
miller  again  took  to  the  water.  The  huissier  followed,  and  another  swimming  match 
took  place.  At  length  the  miller  got  tired  of  the  race,  landed,  and  told  his  pursuer 
that  he  had  had  enough  of  it,  and  that  he  would  constitute  himself  his  prisoner  if 
he  would  produce  his  writ  to  prove  that  he  had  a  legal  right  to  arrest  him.  This,  of 
course,  the  huissier  could  not  do,  having  left  the  important  document  with  his  clothes. 
The  miller  then  made  the  best  of  his  way  home,  and  took  care  to  conceal  himself  until 
after  sunset,  when  he  called  very  politely  on  the  huissier,  and  told  him,  that,  as  he 
intended  that  very  night  to  leave  the  country  for  Belgium  ,  the  huissier  must  defer  the 
execution  of  his  writ  until  a  future  opportunity.  » 


I  TO  A  PIS 


BY 


STEPHEN     PRENTIS,    M.    A. 


REFLECTIONS     IN     k    CEMETERY     ABROAD  ;     THE    COMMON    HOME  ,     OR    THE    GRAVE 

again  ;    etc. 


J.-B.    HUART, 

©asms?. 

1853. 


TO   A    POS 


OR 


&   &?&33&©s   as?   &   s®a^Bs   aa^a, 


How  many  a  mind,  how  many  a  mourning  mind, 
By  absence  pain'd  or  separating  death , 
The  fond  delusion  of  a  picture  feeds ! 
But  thou ,  with  no  similitude  to  charm , 
No  features  to  beguile ,  no  mimic  life , 
Besembhng  nothing  but  tiie  thing  thou  art, 
-The  parcel  of  a  tree , — a  standing  log , — 
Can'st  yet,  effective  as  Apelles'  skill, 
Albe't  in  other  guise,  an  image  show, 
And  vision  to  my  heart  a  face, — a  form, — 
That  ne'er  shall  bless  my  outward  sight  again. 

Insensate  thou,  yet  able  to  awake 

A  fount  of  earnest  feeling  in  my  breast, 

Whose  secret  waters  (a  peculiar  source) 


In  their  embosom'd  bed  have  silent  slept 
Since  last  I  saw  thee  on  this  sylvan  knoll. 

Twas  here , — a  blooming  mother  at  her  side , 

And  cherub  children  at  their  childish  play, — 

She  stood  and  leant,  as  now  I  leaning  stand 

And  fancy,  for  association's  sake, 

The  better  to  recall  that  quiet  hour) 

Yon  chilly  arch  of  unreceding  clouds 

The  zephyr'd  vault  of  May's  unsulli'd  blue. 

'Twas  here,  unconscious  of  the  hazard  prop 

She  rested  on  in  attitude  of  ease, 

She  seem'd  an  emanation  of  the  Spring, 

That  circled  her  with  joy,  and  bent  the  while , 

With  me  discoursing  in  the  boughy  shade, 

Her  eyes  of  youth  on  eyes  no  longer  young. 

Our  desultory  talk  was  birds  and  flowers, 
-The  voices ,  and  the  odours ,  and  the  dyes , — 

That  welcome  and  perfume  the  vernal  year, 
—The  same,  as  have  inspir'd  a  thousand  bards 

Before  '  The  Song  of  Solomon '  and  since. 

The  converse  at  an  end,  I  went  mv  wav. 


We  met  again ,  aye ,  casually  oft 

Again  Ave  met, — that  lovely  girl  and  I, — 

But  here  no  more. 

By  dangerous  degrees , 
A  little  and  a  little  at  a  time, 
The  maiden  grew  a  too-absorbing  thought 
For  Season  to  approve.     In  anger  half 


And  half  in  pity  at  my  folly  did 
The  goddess  speak.     I  listen'd  and  ohey'd, 
Tho'  not  without  a  mutiny  of  sighs, 
Which,  after  all,  was  questionably  quell'd. 

Is  this  the  sum  of  thy  evoking  power, 
—Its  magic  substance, — wooden  wizard?     no. 

We  parted  soon, — that  lovely  girl  and  I.... 
At  midnight ,  with  an  interchange  of  smiles , 
Which  was  not  of  the  eyes,  for  even  her's 
Had  sure  a  sharing  sadness  in  the  look 
She  gave  me , — with  an  interchange  of  hopes 
As  hollow, — with  a  prest  and  pressing  hand, — 
And  lips ,  that  lowly  breath'd  a  last  adieu , 
We  parted — upon  earth  to  meet  no  more. 

( And  thus  ,  as  unenduring  as  a  dream , 
The  tie  (whate'er  it  was)  was  sever'd  there. 
Not  only  upon  earth  we  met  no  more , 
But  next  to  never  with  her  very  name 
I  after  met  on  these  Lethean  banks , 
Till  she,  the  tenant  of  a  distant  tomb, 
Was  snatch'd  untimely  from  the  world  away. ) 

Those  rapid  wheels , — I  seem  to  hear  them  yet ! 

Is  this  the  sum  of  thy  evoking  power, 
— Its  magic  substance, — wooden  wizard?  no. 

How  long — how  weary  lone; — the  morrow  was! 


Uneasy  and  unhing'd,  unable  quite 
My  wonted  occupations  to  pursue , 
To  tedium  in  its  rigid  sense  a  prey, 
-My  listless  home  abandon'd  for  the  sweet 
Distraction  of  the  woods ,  which  ne'ertheless 
Was  negative  and  all  but  fail'd  me  then , — 
Hour  after  hour,  from  heigth  to  ashey  heigth , 
From  dell  to  dell,  (reposing  here  and  there,) 
I  saunter'd  on  and  on ,  till ,  hither  come , 
I  sat  me  down ,  unwitting  stock !  by  thee. 

The  air  wa&  calm  and  hush ,  as  softly  still 

As  that  Madonna  look,  which  haunted  me, 

And,  sinking  deep,,  had  settled  in  my  heart. 

The  crimson  legacy  Hie  Sun  had  left 

Was  blended  with  the  rich  and  purple  hue 

Of  eve.     His  fabled  sister  rose  anon. 

j\or  crescent  she  nor  vest  of  argent  had  r 

But  full  of  orbed  and  of  golden  light 

She  was,  that  turn'd  to  sdver  as  she  scald 

The  sky.     Her  fitting  mirror  was  the  wave 

Below;  and  not  one  jealous  shadow  robb'd 

Her  image  from  the  gently-swelling  river, 

Save  where  the  floating  fragment  of  a  cloud 

A  moment  dhnm'd  her  loveliness  with  its 

Thin  fleecy  veil,  whose  burnish'd  border  told 

How  fraught  with  heaven  the  face  that  shone  beneath . 

The  azure  over-head,  by  Venus  lit, 

Was  momently  begemm'd  with  other  stars. 

The  birds  had  ceas'd  to  sing.     The  nightingale, 

To  Dian  dear,  alone  was  audible. 


Reserv'd  at  first ,  her  melancholy  lay 

Was  timid  aud  disjoin'd ,  but ,  bolder  made 

By  Nature's  rapt  attention  to  the  sounds , 

In  one  continu'd  fervidness  of  song 

She  wildly  pour'd  her  plaining  passion  forth, 

And  chanted  like  a  Sappho  of  the  leaves. 

As  silent  aud  as  motionless  as  thou , 

I  sat  and  listen'd  with  the  moving  Moon. 

Tereu !  Tereu!«...  again!...  again!...  again! — 

Ascending  but  to  fall ,  and  falling  but 

To  rise  afresh  from  that  melodious  bed , 

Up  went  the  thrilling  tones, — a  surging  shower !- 

The  play  of  liquid  harmony, — a  jet, 

That  shot  its  gather'd  SAveetness  in  the  air, 

Dissolv'd ,  and  came  in  dulcet  atoms  down ! 

In  common  with  the  ear  of  charmed  Night 
And  thirsty  as  my  own,  my  spirit  too 
Imbib'd  the  melting  music  of  the  bird. 
As  tho'  a  mystic  part  of  it  she  were, 
The  viewless  warbler  to  my  soul  appear'd 
A  sentiment,  and  not  a  thing  create. 

Responsive  to  the  tender  woe  I  heard, 
Responsive  to  the  tender  scene  I  saw, 
Suhdu'd  by  sorrow  in  its  mildest  shape, 
I  bow'd  my  head,  and  answer'd  with  my  eyes. 

The  drops ,  that  issu'd  from  the  lids  at  first , 
Were  like  the  mournful  wellines  in  the  thorn; 


Bu1  soon,  In   sad  and  sympathetic  turns , 
— Their  flowing  thn'd  by  Philomela's  grief — 
A  rill,  a  stream,  and  then  a  flood  they  ran. 

No  other  form  or  order  did  they  have. 

A  sentient  sluice  let  gradually  go , 

Of  feeling  unmethodically  full , 

They  were  not  of  the  mind,  hut  of  the  heart. 

As  unconnected  as  the  vari'd  spoil 

Of  swollen  rivers  in  the  rainy  west, 

What  snatches  of  the  past  were  then  adrift! 

My  being  was  before  me ,  not  entire , 
But  shown  in  pieces ,  as  they  floated  by. 

A  something  was  there  of  the  happy  date, 
When  I,  together  with  an  urchin  band 
Disporting  in  the  yellow  fields  of  June , 
Abruptly  ceas'd  the  gambol  and  the  shout 
Of  joy,  arrested  by  the  nightingale. 

Eight  lustres  of  my  human  span  alas ! 

Were  gone ,  since ,  vying  with  the  giddy  troop , 

I  chas'd  the  typic  butterfly,  and  yet, 

xVs  tho'  no  solemn  thought  could  thence  arise, 

The  nnsuggestiug  image  pass'd  away. — 

«  Tereu !  Tereu !  «...  again ! . . .  again ! . . .  again ! . . . 
Up  went  the  touching  notes,  down  came  the  passive  tears! 

A  something  was  there  of  a  later  time, 
When  I, — a  bigger  boy,  but  still  a  child, — 


Assisted  by  my  father's  ready  hand, 

Was  traversing  a  copse  of  early  green, 

Irrelevantly  talking  this  and  that, 

As  Childhood  will  do.     On  a  sudden  he 

The  sign  of  silence  made,  and  whisper'd  «hush!» — 

I  held  my  peace ,  and  heard  the  nightingale. 

As  here ,  as  mute  and  motionless  as  thou , 
I  sat  and  listen'd  with  the  moving  Moon 
To  that  recurring  voice  of  deathless  Spring, 
My  sire  had  long  beeii  number'd  with  the  dead, 
As  shortly  must  my  chddren's  father  he; 
And  yet ,  as  tho'  the  worm  was  hut  a  word , 
And  Man's  caducity  an  idle  sound, 
— No  solemn  thought  presented  to  the  mind , — 
The  unsuggesting  image  pass'd  away. — 

o  Tereu!  Tereu!  «...  agaiu!...  again!...  again!... 
Up  went  the  touching  notes,  down  came  the  passive  tears ! 

A  something  was  there  of  my  wasted  youth  , 

When  I  (the  idlest  of  the  idle  then 

And  since,  abusing  every  golden  chance 

Of  science ,  offer'd  by  a  hfe  of  ease , ) 

Was  walking ,  to  refresh  my  fever'd  frame , 

At  midnight  with  a  son  of  revelry 

Fast  by  the  classic  Cam.     In  either  head 

The  fumes  of  dizzy  Bacchus  were  at  work , 

And  speech  and  laughter,  riotously  loud , 

Disturb'd  the  holy  cahn ,  till  lo !  rebuk'd 

We  stopp'd  beneath  the  fulgent  lamp  of  Heaven , 


Where,  close  beside  us,  in  her  willow'd  haunt, 
The  seraph  of  the  shade  her  hymn  began. 

As  here ,  as  mute  and  motionless  as  thou , 

I  sat  and  listen'd  with  the  moving  Moon 

To  that  recurring  chorister  of  Night, 

The  gay  companion  of  my  noisy  hours 

Was  dumb  as  his  sarcophagus,  and  yet, 

As   tho'  no  solemn  thought  could  thence  arise, 

The  uusuggesting  image  pass'd  away. — 

■<  Tereu !  Tereu .'»...  again ! . . .  again ! . . .  again ! . . . 
Up  went  the  touching  notes ,  down  came  the  passive  tear* ! 

A  something  was  there  of  my  after  age, 
More  shapeless  even  than  the  rest, — a  sort 
Of  double  dream  of  person  and  of  place, 
— An  old  familiar  park, — a  foreign  vale, — 
A  heronry, — a  line  of  margent  trees, — 
And  dappled  deer, — and  snowy  nenuphar, — 
And  things,  that  indiscriminately  mix'd, 
Were  faintly  vision'd  by  the  filming  show'r 
The  while  two  pallid  beings  at  my  side 
A  moment  stood  together,  and  were — gone ! 

And  with  'em  went  the  old  familiar  park , 
And  with 'em  went  the  foreign  vale,  where  erst7 
When  watching  Death  was  waiting  for  his  prey, 
The  nightingale  to  each  so  sadly  sang! 

As  here^  as  mute  and  motionless  as  thou, 
I  sat  and  listen'd  with  the  moving  Moon 


To  that  recurring,  bird-embodi'd  grief, 
The  pair  were  turning  into  dust,   and  yet 
— No  solemn  thought  presented  to  the  mind . — 
The  unsuggesting  image  pass'd  away. — 

«  Tereu !  Tereu !  «...  again ! . . .  again ! . . .  again ! . . . 
Up  went  the  touching  notes,  down  came  the  passive  tears ! 

The  sequel  was  a  worse  confusion  still , 
«  Confusion  ivorse  confounded.  »     Vaguely  rife 
With  broken  memories, — a  figur*d  flood! — 
Taster  and  faster,  till  the  song  was  done , 
Down  came  the  passive  tears ,  the  passive-pouring  tears ! — 

A  small ,  dark  object  flitted  from  the  thorn  , 

And,  chilly  with  the  dew,  my  seat  I  left 

To  bend  my  homeward  steps  to  yonder  town. — 

And  such  the  passage  in  a  poefs  life, 
Too  oft  alas!  a  waking,  weeping  dream! — 


But  who  was  she ,  that ,  'perding  his  peace , 
Could  so  divide  the  jealous  faith  of  one , 
Whose  earthly  cult  had  been  the  beautiful , 
As  long  beheld  in  Beauty's  fairest  form? 

No  other  revelation  will  he  make, 
No  other  answer  will  he  give ,  than  this  : 
For  them,  that  over-think ,  is  laughter  good, 
For  them,  that  over-feel,  the  balm  is  tears. 


(1)  —  «  How  many  a  mind,  hoiv  many  a  mourning  mind, 

u  By  absence  pain'd  or  separating  death, 
«  The  fond  delusion  of  a  picture  feeds  !  » 

«  Constitit  et  lacrymans  :  Quis  jam  locus  inquit,  Achate, 

«  Quae  regio  in  terris  nostri  non  plena  laboris? 

«  En  Priamus  :  sunt  hie  etiam  sua  pramia  laudi , 

r  Sunt  lacrymae  rerum,  et  mentem  mortalia  tangunt. 

(i  Solve  metus  :  feret  ha;c  aliquam  tibi  fama  salutem. 

«  Sic  ait  :  atque  animum  pictura  pascit  inani 

«  Multa  gemens,  largoque  humectat  flumine  vultum.  » 

Mneid.  Lib.  1. 

(2)  —  «  The  voices,  and  the  odours,  and  the  dyes, 

<(  That  welcome  and  perfume  the  vernal  year, 
— «  The  same,  as  have  inspir'd  a  thousand  bards 
«  Before  '  The  Song  of  Solomon '  and  since.  » 

«  My  beloved  spake,  and  said  unto  me,  Rise  up,  my  love,  my  fair  one,  and  come 
away. 

«  For,  lo,  the  winter  is  past,  the  rain  is  over  and  gone; 

«  The  flowers  appear  on  the  earth;  the  time  of  the  singing  of  birds  is  come,  and 
the  voice  of  the  turtle  is  heard  in  our  land; 

«  The  fig  tree  putleth  forth  her  green  figs,  and  the  vines  with  the  tender  grape 
.give  a  good  smell.    Arise ,  my  love ,  my  fair  one ,  and  come  away.  » 

Solomon's  song.  Ch.  2.  vers.  10,  11,  12,  15. 

(3)  —  «  No  other  form  or  order  did  they  have. 

«  A  sentient  sluice,  let  gradually  go, 

«  Of  feeling  unmethodically  full , 

«  They  were  not  of  the  mind ,  but  of  the  heart.  » 

Should  the  reader  (as  well  he  may)  have  found  a  sense  of  vagueness  in  the 
unes  to  a  post,  all  the  author  can  alledge  is  this  :  they  record  a  fact.    In 


common  with  the  rest ,  the  paroxysm  of  tears ,  described  therein ,  is  literally  true. 
So  many,  perhaps ,  of  the  same  nature  and  in  the  same  time ,  were  never  shed , 
at  one  bout,  by  sober  rationality  before.  Unaccompanied  by  thought  as  far  as  it  was 
possible  they  could  be,  he  can  account  for  neither  their  duration  nor  their  violence, 
the  one  so  singularly  long,  the  other  so  singularly  great.  Himself  unequal  to  enact 
the  sphinx,  he  leaves  the  question,  for  solution,  to  "'metaphysics  and  the — nightingale. 
But,  however  null  as  a  matter  of  mind,  they  were,  as  a  matter  of  heart ,  (to  speak 
commercially)  ««  discharge  in  full ! »  His  spirits,  next  morning,  were  buoyant  to 
a  degree.  He  can  liken  the  effect  to  nothing  but  to  that  of  a  Turkish  bath ,  for  a 
capital  description  of  which,  by  the  bye,  see  Lady  Mary  Worthy  Montague"s  «  Letters 
« from  the  East,»  or  Willis's  «  Pcncillings  by  the  way. » 

(4)  —  «  A  something  was  there  of  the  happy  date, 

«  When  I,  together  with  an  urchin  band 

«  Disporting  in  the  yellow  fields  of  June, 

«  Abruptly  ceas'd  the  gambol  and  the  shout 

(i  Of  joy ,  arrested  by  the  nightingale.  » 

On  one  occasion,  I  heard  the  nightingale  so  late  as  Midsummer-Day;  on  another, 
(a  rare  event)  on  the  twenty-first  of  July.  The  song  is  seldom  audible  after  the 
middle  of  June,  the  cock-bird  having  to  bear  his  part  in  providing  for  the  wants  of 
the  little  family.  The  poet  Cowper  (a  very  unlikely  man  to  be  mistaken  in  the  note) 
has  registered  a  perhaps  unique  occurrence  in  the  verses  which  I  quote  : 

«  TO   THE    NIGHTINGALE, 

«    WHICH    THE   AUTHOR   HEARD    Sl.NG    ON    NEW    YEAR'S   DAY,    1792. 


«  Whence  is  it,  that  amaz'd  I  hear 
«  From  yonder  wither'd  spray, 

<(  This  foremost  morn  of  all  the  year, 
«  The  melody  of  May? 


<(  And  why,  since  thousands  would  be  proud 

«  Of  such  a  favour  shown , 
«  Am  I  selected  from  the  crowd , 

«  To  witness  it  alone? 


*  «  The  topics  of  ontology  or  metaphysics  »  ( says  Watts's  '  Logic ' )  «  are  cause ,  effect ,  action , 
«  passion,  identity,  opposition,  subject,  adjunct  and  sign.  »  This  is  all  very  well,  but  the  following 
is  better  still.  A  Scotchman ,  in  the  course  of  conversation ,  having  been  asked  the  meaning  of  the 
word  metaphysics,  happily  replied  :  «  When  the  mon  ye're  talking  to  does  no  understand  what  ye're 
« talking  abool,  and  when  ye  no  understand  what  ye're  talking  aboot  ycr  ain  sel,— that's  metaphysics. » 


«  Sing'st  thou ,  sweet  Philomel ,  to  me , 

«  For  that  I  also  long 
«  Have  practis'd  in  the  groves  like  thee, 

«  Though  not  like  thee  in  song? 

«  Or  sing'st  thou  rather  under  force 

«  Of  some  divine  command, 
<(  Commission'd  to  presage  a  course 

«  Of  happier  days  at  hand? 

«  Thrice  welcome  then !  for  many  a  long 

«  And  joyless  year  have  I , 
»  As  thou  to-day,  put  forth  my  song 

«  Beneath  a  wintry  sky. 

<(  But  thee  no  wintry  skies  can  harm, 

«  Who  only  need'st  to  sing, 
«  To  make  ev'n  January  charm, 

«  And  every  season  Spring.  » 


